REVZSZiD  ZSDITIOir 


WAVERLEY  NOVELS, 

For  Ten  Dollars!!! 


The  Publishers  have  now  the  pleasure  to  offer  to  the  public 
A  COMPLETE  EDITION 

OP  THB 

Br  THE  AUTHOR  OF  "WAVERLET, 
WITH 

HIS  LATEST  CORREC7TIONS  AND  ADDITIONS, 

at  a  price  so  low  as  to  place  them  within  the  reach  of  every  one. 
When  it  is  taken  into  consideration  that  the  whole  of  the  latest 
Edinburgh  edition  is  now  comprised  in  Five  Volumps,  well  printed 
on  good  paper,  at  the  unprecedmtedly  low  price  of 

TEN  DOIitARS, 

the  public  will  be  able  to  appreciate  their  endeavours  to  furnish 
the  writings  of  so  highly  popular  an  author  at  less  than  oite-sixth 
of  the  price  of  the  original  edition. 

Complete  iu  Five  large  Octavo  Volumes, 

WITH 

A    PORTRAIT    OF    THE  AUTHOR. 


Waverley, 

Guy  Mannering, 

Antiquary, 

Rob  Roy, 

Black  Dwarf, 

Old  Mortality, 

Heart  qf  Mid-Lothian, 

Bride  of  Lammermoor, 

Legend  of  Montrose, 

Ivanhoe, 

The  Monastery, 


CONTENTS. 

The  Abbot, 
Kenilworth, 
The  Pirate, 
Fortunes  of  Nigel, 
Peveril  of  the  Peak, 
Qjuentin  Durward, 
St.  Ronan's  Well, 
Redgauntlet, 
The  Betrothed, 
The  Talisman, 
Woodstock, 


The  Highland  Widow, 
Two  Drovers, 

My  Aunt  Margaret's  Mirror, 
Tapestried  Chamber, 
Tlie  Laird's  Jock, 
Fair  Maid  of  Perth, 
Anne  of  Gierstein, 
Count  Robert  of  Paris, 
Castle  Dangerous, 
The  Surgeon's  Daughter. 
Glossary. 


SIR  WALTER  SCOTT'S 
MISCELLANEOUS  PROSE  WRITINGS. 


IN  THIIBK  TOIXTMES,  OCTAVO. 

PRICE  SEVEN  DOLLABS. 
NEATLY   BOUND    IN   BUB08SEO  HVSLIN. 


CONTENTS. 

Paul's  Letters  to  his  Kinsfolk,  Life  of  Napoleon, 

Essay  on  Chivalry  and  Romance,  History  of  Scotland, 

Sermons,  Life  of  John  Dryden, 

Life  of  Swift,  Demonology  and  Witchcraft, 


Tales  of  a  Grandfather — Four  Series ; 


AND 


BIOGRAPHICAL  NOTICES  OF 


Samuel  Richardson, 


Robert  Bage, 

Charlotte  Smith, 

Sir  Ralph  Sadler, 

John  Leyden, 

Miss  Anne  Seward, 

Dsuiiel  De  Foe, 

Late  Duke  of  Buccleugrh 


Henry  Fielding, 
Tobias  Smollett, 


Richard  Cumberland, 


Oliver  Goldsmith, 
Samuel  Johnson, 
Laurence  Sterne, 
Henry  Mackenzie, 
Horace  Walpole, 
Clara  Reeve, 


and  Queensbury, 
Lord  Somerville, 
King  George  the  Third,, 
Lord  Byron, 
The  Duke  of  York, 


Mrs.  Ann  Radcliffe, 
Le  Sage, 


Charles  Johnstone. 


SIR  WALTER  SCOTT'S  ENTIRE  WORKS, 
For  Twenty  Dollars. 

E.  L.  CAREY  AND  A.  HART, 

PHILADELPHIA, 

HAVE   JUST  PUBLISHED 

A  COMPLETE  EDITION  OF  THE  WORKS  OF 

SIR  WALTER  SCOTT. 

COMPRISINO 


The  Waverley  Novels,  complete. 
Poetical  Works,  including  The 

Minstrelsy  of  the  Scottish 

Border, 
Lives  of  Swift  and  Dryden. 
Lives  of  the  Novelists. 
History  of  Scotland. 


Tales  of  my  Grandfather,  Four 

Series. 
Life  of  Napoleon. 
Essays  on  Chivalry,  Romance, 

Demonology  and  Witchcraft. 
PauVs  Letters  lo  his  Kinsfolk. 


Sermons,  ^c.  4-c. 

THE  WHOLE  REVISED  AND  CORRECTED  BY  HIMSELP. 
TO   WHICH   IS  ADDBD, 

am®  MiFiB  ^jsriE  (SoiiiiaissiPOHioiiMOiaj, 

EDITED  BY 

J.  G.  LOCKHART. 


Forming  the  only  complete  and  uniform  edition  of  the  writings  of 
the  "  Magician  of  the  North"  ever  published  in  America. 

THE   WHOLE  COMPBIBED 

IN  TEN  LARGE  OCTAVO  VOLUMES, 

WITH  A  FIBE  PORTRAIT  EKGKAVED  ON  STEEL. 


Price,  elegantly  bound  in  embossed  cloth,  and  lettered,  $20. 


ADVERTISEMENT  TO  THE  AMERICAN  EDITION 

OF  THE 

Complete  Works  of  Sir  Walter  Scott. 

The  writings  of  Walter  Scott  will  be  referred  to  hereafter  as 
marking  an  era  in  English  literature.  With  a  genius  expansive 
as  the  broad  field  of  letters,  his  was  the  intellectual  capacity  to 
master  every  subject  it  approached.  Familiar  with  the  accumu- 
lated knowledge  of  dead  ages,  he  brought  to  his  task,  whatever 
were  its  nature,  a  mind  richly  stored  with  all  that  was  beautiful 
and  apt  for  illustration,  description,  or  analogy. 

Criticism  has  failed  in  its  attempt  to  confine  the  acknowledged 
superiority  of  Scott  to  any  distinctive  range  of  subjects.  The 
reader  who  finds  surpassing  beauty  and  thrilling  pathos  in  the 
"Lay"  and  "Marmion,"  before  he  records  his  admiration  will 
recall  the  graphic  force  and  splendid  imagery  of  "  Waverley"  and 
"  Ivanhoe." — ^Though  in  the  simple  and  natural  sketches  of  the 
"  Lives  of  the  Novelists,"  he  becomes  entranced  by  the  wizard 
power  of  the  writer,  yet  will  he  not  forget  that  the  historic  page 
which  tells  of  Bruce,  or  Napoleon,  bears  an  evidence  of  the 
writer's  genius  equally  brilliant  and  enduring. 

Scott's  great  and  peculiar  merit  is  admitted  to  be  his  invincible 
truth  to  nature.  In  the  regions  of  poetry  and  romance,  with  an 
imagination  that  never  slumbers,  and  which  gives  light  and  life  to 
every  picture  of  its  creation,  there  is  still  a  naturalness  that  wins 
upon  the  heart,  till  fiction  becomes  reality.  It  is  here  that  the 
magician's  power  is  felt,  though  the  arm  that  lifts  the  wand  is  un- 
seen. On  the  busy,  life-like  pages  of  biography,  his  deep  know- 
ledge of  human  character,  and  universal  benevolence  of  disposition, 
are  alike  discernible.  Charity  tempers  the  justice  of  all  his  infer- 
ences, and  there  is  ever  a  pouring  forth  of  that  spirit  of  kindness 
which  "  delights  to  praise,  but  falters  to  condemn."  It  is  perhaps 
on  the  graver  themes  of  history,  that  the  triumph  of  Scott's  genius 
is  most  remarkable.  So  irresistible  are  the  charrns  of  style  which 
he  throws  around  historical  subjects,  that  what  in  other  hands  is 
dry  and  uninteresting  detail,  comes  from  his  pen  with  the  force  of 
truth,  adorned  with  all  the  attractive  grace  of  fiction. 

The  works  of  an  author  like  Scott  cannot  be  too  extensi  vely 
diffused.    No  one  can  rise  fi-om  the  perusal  of  his  writings  with- 

5 


ADVERTISEMENT  TO  SCOTT'S  WORKS. 

out  having  been  instructed  as  well  as  amused.  The  cause  of  reli- 
gion, and  virtue,  and  moraUty,  finds  an  advocate  on  every  page ; 
vice  will  seek  encouragement  from  the  same  source  in  vain. 

It  has  been  well  observ^ed  by  an  able  and  eloquent  American 
critic,  that  "  if  ever  writer  deserved  universal  citizenship,  it  was  Sir 
Walter  Scott.  He  was  the  poet  of  nature,  the  delineator  of  his 
species  in  every  climate  and  on  every  soil ;  so  that,  wherever  his 
works  were  known,  there  was  he  to  be  regarded  as  a  native  and  a 
denizen." 

It  is  in  this  spirit  that  the  publishers  of  the  American  edition  of 
Scott's  complete  works  have  imdertaken  to  present  them  to  the 
American  people.  They  have  supposed  that  they  could  not  render 
a  better  or  more  acceptable  service  to  the  great  mass  of  readers, 
than  by  placing  such  a  publication  within  their  reach.  The  revised 
uniform  Edinburgh  edition,  from  which  this  is  reprinted,  comprises 
eighty-eight  volumes,  the  cost  of  which  is  one  hundred  and  twenty- 
five  dollars.  The  American  edition  now  pubUshed  contains  the 
entire  matter,  with  the  addition  of  " Lockharfs  Life  of  Scott" 
with  the  latest  emendations,  in  ten  octavo  volumes,  stereotyped, 
and  printed  on  excellent  paper.  The  price  of  this  edition  is 
above  one  hundred  dollars  less  than  that  of  the  Edinburgh. 

The  text  of  the  "  Life  of  Napoleon"  was  revised  by  Sir  Walter 
himself.  It  contains  copious  editorial  notes,  with  brief  notices  of 
many  distuiguished  men  who  acted  a  prominent  part  in  the  event- 
ful wars  which  followed  the  French  revolution. 

In  addition  to  the  likeness  of  the  author,  engraved  from  a  paint- 
ing by  Newton,  which  accompanies  the  first  volume,  will  be  found 
a  beautiful  medallion  portrait  to  preface  the  seventh  volume. 

The  publication  price  aflixed  to  this  work  is  less,  in  reference 
to  the  quality  of  materials  and  style  of  execution,  than  that  of  any 
other  production  of  the  press  in  Europe  or  America.  The  invest- 
ment and  expenditures  connected  with  this  undertaking  are  much 
greater  than  usually  attend  a  republication ;  and  it  will  be  appa- 
rent that  the  publishers  must  rely  on  an  extensive  sale  for  their 
remuneration.  They  appeal  with  entire  confidence  to  the  Ameri- 
can public,  for  a  just  and  liberal  support  in  their  endeavours  to 
disseminate  the  means  of  an  enlightened  and  rational  enjoyment. 

E.  L.  CAREY  AND  A.  HART. 
Philadelphia,  October,  1838. 


6 


OF  THE 

FRENCH  REVOLUTION. 

BY  M.  A.  THIERS, 

LATE  PRIME  MINISTER  OF  FRANCE. 

81©ftt)  fillustcatfbe  ^nectiotes  anTi  Wotes, 
From  the  most  authentic  Sources, 


Mirabeau, 
Mignet, 
Lafayette, 
Dumourier, 
Lavallette, 
Bourrienne, 
Abbe  Edgeworth, 
Louis  XVIIL 


INCLUDING 

Duchess  D'Abrantes, 
Joseph  Bonaparte, 
Sir  Walter  Scott, 
Madame  de  Stael, 
Lucien  Bonaparte, 
De  Moleville, 
Las  Cases, 
Camot, 
Now  first  added. 


Lacretelle, 

Necker, 

Clery, 

Madame  Roland, 
Biographe  Modeme, 
The  Moniteur, 
Alison, 

&c.  &c. 


BY  FREDERICK  SHOBERL,  ESQ. 
In  Three  Volumes,  8vo. 

"  M.  Thiers  has  acquired  great  reputation  as  an  historian.  His  History 
of  the  French  Revolution  has  become  a  standard  work,  and  needs  no 
eulogy.  The  translation  of  it  seems  worthy  of  the  original.  It  is  enriched 
by  useful  notes  and  striking  illustrations,  and  will  prove  a  very  valuable 
addition  to  our  literature." — Courier. 

"  A  translation  of  M.  Thiers's  History  is  a  work  that  has  long  been 
wanted.  It  is  unquestionably  the  best  that  has  yet  appeared  on  the  sub- 
ject of  the  French  Revolution,  being  shrewd,  dispassionate,  and  scrupu- 
lously accurate  in  its  details.  We  are  glad,  therefore,  to  see  this  transla- 
tion, which  is  very  ably  rendered,  and  has  the  additional  advantage  of 
being  copiously  illustrated  with  notes,  and  anecdotal  reminiscences  illus- 
trative of  the  private  and  public  characters  of  the  early  leaders  of  the 
Revolution.  We  are  all  of  us  intimate  with  the  names  of  Mirabeau, 
Danton,  Egalite,  Robespierre,  Marat,  &c.,  but  few  of  us  know  any  thing 
about  their  private  characters :  the  present  work  will  supply  this  defi- 
ciency. Thus  recommended,  we  will  not  permit  ourselves  to  doubt  for 
an  instant  of  the  success  of  this  work." — Sun. 

"  No  man  was  better  qualified  for  the  task  of  writing  this  history  than 
M.  Thiers,  who,  independent  of  his  own  personal  observation,  has  had 
access  to  various  sources  of  authentic  information,  which  previous  writers 
on  the  subject  were  unable  to  command.  He  has  with  singular  impar- 
tiality entered  into  the  causes  which  produced  such  memorable  results, 
and  traces  the  progress  of  the  Revolution  itself  in  a  most  masterly  man- 
ner."— Sunday  THmes. 

"  One  of  the  chief  features  in  this  history  is  the  impartiality  with  which 
it  is  written,  a  quality  of  itself  to  entitle  the  work  to  the  popularity  it  has 
attained.  M.  Thiers's  history  of  this  eventful  period  will  be  found  to 
abound  in  detail,  and  to  present  views  of  that  tremendous  event,  of  the 
actors,  and  their  motives  or  their  impulses,  under  which  they  acted,  which 
can  be  met  with  nowhere  else,  and  will  consequently  be  found  to  contain 
a  vast  deal  of  information  new  even  to  those  who  are  already  well  road 
in  the  history  of  the  French  Revolution." — Scotsvian. 


CAREY   &  HART 

HAVE  JUST  PUBLISHED 

THE  NINTH  EDITION 

OF 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  COOKERY, 

IK 

ITS  VARIOUS  BRANCHES. 

BY 

MISS  LESLIE. 

WITH    IMPROVEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  REGEIPTS. 


AMONG    ITS  CONTENTS  ASB 


Almond  ice-cream, 

Chowder, 

Almond  pudding, 

Cherries,  pickled. 

Apple  butter, 

Cider  cake, 

Apple  jelly, 

Clam  soup. 

Apple  pot-pie, 

Cocoa-nut  cakes. 

Apple  compote. 

Cocoa-nut  pudding. 

Beef  a  la  mode, 

CaiTageen  blanc-mange. 

Beef,  to  dry  and  smoke, 

Chicken  curry. 

Beef  steak  pudding. 

Curds  and  whey. 

Bologna  sausages. 

Corn  pudding. 

Bread,  to  make. 

Egg-plant,  to  stew. 

Black  cake. 

Egg-plant,  to  fry. 

Bran  bread, 

Election  cake. 

Butternuts,  to  pickle. 

Eve's  pudding. 

Calf's  head  soup. 

Family  soup. 

Cantelopes,  to  preserve. 

Fricasseed  chickens. 

Citrons,  to  preserve, 

Force-meat  balls. 

Cream  cheese. 

French  green  peas  soup. 

Chicken  valad, 

Gingerbread,  (white,) 

Charlotte  russe. 

Grape  jelly. 

37* 

Leslie's  cookery. 


Gravy  soup, 

Gumbo  soup, 

Halibut  cutlets, 

Hams,  (directions  for  curing,) 

Hams,  (Westphalia,)  to  imitate, 

Ham,  to  roast, 

Honey  ginger  cake, 

Indian  muffins, 

Indian  pound  cake, 

Jelly  cake. 

Lady  cake, 

Larding, 

Lemon  custards, 

Lemon  cream, 

Lettuce  or  salad,  to  dress, 
Lobster,  to  dress  cold, 
Lobster,  potted, 
Maccaroni,  to  dress, 
Maccaroons,  to  make, 
Marmalade  cake. 
Mangoes,  to  pickle, 
Meg  Merrilies'  soup, 
Mince  meat, 
Mock  oysters. 
Molasses  candv 
Moravian  sugar  case, 
Mustard,  (French,) 
Orange  pudding, 
Ochra  soup. 


Oyster  soup. 
Oysters,  fried, 
Oysters,  pickled. 
Oyster  pie, 

Paste,  (the  best  plain,) 

Paste,  (fine  puff,) 

Peach  marmalade. 

Peach  leather. 

Pine  apples,  to  preserve. 

Plum  pudding, 

Pork  and  beans. 

Pork  cheese. 

Pumpkin  chips, 

Queen  cake, 

Quince  jelly, 

Raspberry  charlotte, 
Reed  birds,  to  roast. 
Rice  cakes, 
Rye  and  Indian  bread, 
Salmon  cutlets, 
Sausages,  (fine,) 
Sweet  potatoe  pudding, 
Tennessee  muffins, 
Terrapins,  to  stew, 
Tomatoes,  (preserved,) 
Waffles, 

Watermelon  rind,  (to  preserve,) 
Washington  cake, 
8ec.  &c. 


Companion  to  Mss  LesKe's  Cookery. 


THE 

HOUSE  BOOK: 


A  MANUAL  OF  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY. 


BY 


MISS  LESLIE, 

AUTHOR  OF  "  A  eOlWPLETE  SYSrEM  OF  COOKEnV,"  "  8KVENTV-FIVK 
RECEIPTS,"  ETC. 


CONTAIWINO   D1RECTIOX8  FOa 


LAUNDRY  WORK, 
REMOVING  STAINS, 
LIGHTS  AND  FIRES, 
CLEANING  FURNITURE, 
KITCHEN  AFFAIRS, 


WAITING  ON  COMPANY, 
CARVING, 
HOUSE-CLEANING, 
MAKING  UP  LINEN, 
DRESS-MAKING,  ETC. 


PHILADELPHIA : 
CAREY  &  HART. 
1840. 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1840,  by 

E.  L.  Cakey  &  A.  Hart, 

in  the  Cleric's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  Eastern  District  of 
Pennsylvania. 


STEREOTYPED  BY  L.  JOHNSON  PHILADELPHIA. 


PREFACE. 


The  design  of  the  following  work  is  to  impart  to  novices  in 
house-keeping  some  information  on  a  subject  which  is,  or  ought 
to  be,  important  to  every  American  female,  so  that  they  may 
be  enabled  to  instruct  unpractised  domestics,  or,  in  case  of 
emergency,  to  assist  personally  in  forwarding  the  indispensable 
work  of  the  family.  More  than  nine-tenths  of  these  receipts 
are  entirely  original ;  all  are  expressly  adapted  to  the  meridian 
of  our  own  country ;  and  though  they  generally  refer  to  the 
condition  of  families  in  what  is  termed  genteel  life,  a  large 
number  of  them  may  be  found  useful  in  houses  where  close 
economy  is  expedient. 

It  has  been  the  design  of  the  author  to  make  her  directions 
as  plain  and  intelligible  as  possible,  and  therefore  she  has 
thought  it  best  to  explain  every  particular  with  unusual  minute- 
ness, as  if  addressed  to  persons  who  were  totally  ignorant  of 
the  subjects  in  question.  In  this,  as  in  her  Cookery  Book,  she 
has  not  scrupled,  when  necessary,  to  sacrifice  the  sound  to  the 
sense ;  repeating  the  same  words  when  no  others  could  be  found 
to  express  the  purport  so  clearly;  and  being  always  more 
anxious  to  convey  the  meaning  in  such  terms  as  could  not  be 
mistaken,  than  to  '  risk  obscuring  it  by  attempts  at  refined 
phraseology  or  well-rounded  periods. 

Complaints  are  incessantly  heard  of  the  deterioration  of  ser- 
vants ;  but  may  not  one  source  of  this  growing  evil  be  traced 
to  the  deterioration  of  mistresses  in  the  knowledge  and  practice 
of  all  that  is  necessary  to  a  well-ordered  household.  A  great 
change  has  certainly  taken  place  since  the  days  when,  during 
the  presidency  of  her  husband,  Mrs.  Washington,  followed  by 
a  servant-man  with  a  basket,  went  daily  to  Philadelphia  mar- 
ket ;  and  when  the  all-accomplished  daughters  of  Mr.  Jeflferson 
made  pastry  and  confectionary  in  a  room  fitted  up  for  that  pur- 
pose in  their  father's  mansion  at  Monticello. 

3 


4 


PREFACE. 


While  we  regret  the  present  system  of  education,  in  which 
all  things  are  taught  (or  rather  attempted)  except  that  which 
to  every  American  female  must  at  some  period  of  her  life  be 
absolutely  necessary,  we  would  not  have  our  young  married 
ladies  discouraged  if,  on  first  assuming  the  charge  of  a  house, 
they  find  themselves  subjected  to  much  perplexity  and  incon- 
venience from  ignorance  of  their  new  task.  A  competent 
knowledge  of  household  affairs  is  by  no  means  difficult  to 
acquire,  and  is  within  the  reach  of  every  woman  of  tolerable 
capacity,  who  has  a  proper  conviction  of  its  utility,  and  an 
earnest  desire  to  profit  by  all  opportunities  of  improvement  in 
its  pursuit.  It  is  a  homely  but  a  true  saying,  that  "  where 
there  is  a  will  there  is  a  way." 

A  neat  and  well-conducted  house,  with  fires  and  lights 
always  as  they  should  be ;  and  a  table  where  the  food  is  invit- 
ing, from  being  good  both  in  material  and  cooking;  also  clothes 
well  washed  and  ironed,  are  comforts  that  are  not  lightly  prized 
by  any  married  man;  and  it  is  but  just  that  he  who  perhaps 
labours  hard  in  his  business  or  profession  to  procure  the  means 
of  pbtaining  them,  should  not  be  disappointed  in  their  applica- 
tion; particularly  when  the  deficiencies  are  caused  by  the 
inertness  or  the  mismanagement  of  the  woman  who  should 
consider  it  her  especial  care  to  render  his  home  agreeable  to  him. 

Should  this  book  have  any  effect  in  directing  the  attention 
of  her  young  countrywomen  to  a  subject  of  far  more  importance 
to  their  married  happiness  than  the  cultivation  of  showy  accom- 
plishments, or  the  unavailing  pursuit  of  studies  that  to  females 
are  always  abstruse ;  should  it,  on  trial,  be  found  a  useful  aux- 
iliary to  practised  house-keepers,  in  furnishing  them  with  addi- 
tional hints,  or  new  and  easy  modes  of  doing  things  that  have 
always  been  done,  its  object  will  be  accomplished;  leaving 
the  author  with  the  gratification  of  knowing  that  she  has  not 
written  in  vain. 

Philadelphia,  February  \9th,  1840. 


CONTENTS. 


Ladndbt  Wohk  : — "Washing,  Ironing,  Clear-starching,  Doing 

up  Lace,  &c   7 

Removino  Stains  and  Grease  : — Taking  out  Ink,  Lamp-oil, 

Paint,  Acids,  &c   78 

Domestic  Dyes   93 

CouNTKT  Manner  of  Dxeinb  Yarn   101 

Insects,  Rats,  Mice,  «&c   105 

Fuel,  Fihes,  &c.: — Management  of  wood  and  coal  Fires  in 

Grates  and  Stoves   121 

Lights  : — Management  of  Lamps,  Tapers,  Candle-making,  &c.  155 

Furniture  : — Cleaning  Carpets,  Curtains,  Mahogany,  SilveR, 

Glass,  Knives  and  Forks,  Brass,  &c   171 

The  Kitchen  : — Its  Furniture  and  Utensils   227 

The  Dininb-room  : — Table  Furniture,  Waiting  on  Table, 

Carving,  «fec   250 

Bed-chambers: — Bed-room  Furniture,  Keeping  it  clean,  &c.  296 

House-cleaning  : — White-washing,  Cleaning  Paint,  Scrub- 
bing, Preparing  Rooms  for  Summer,  Pjicking  Furni- 
ture, &c   336 

MiscEUANsous  Articles: — Keeping  a  Cow,  Poultry,  Bees, 

Making  Inks,  Making  Colours,  «fec   355 

Sewins  Work: — Making  up  Linen,  Hints  on  Dress-making.  382 
1*  6 


THE 


HOUSE  BOOK. 


THE  LAUNDRY. 

No  large  house  should  be  without  a  laundry,  or  place  ap- 
propriated to  the  work  connected  with  washing  and  ironing. 
A  back  kitchen  may  easily  be  fitted  up  for  this  purpose.  It 
should  have  a  large  fire-place  for  the  convenience  of  boiling 
several  kettles  of  water  at  a  time,  if  necessary,  and  for  heating 
the  irons.  A  pump  or  hydrant  should  either  be  within  the 
laundry  or  close  to  the  door:  also  a  sink  for  disposing  of  the 
dirty  water.  All  the  water  used  foir  washing  must  be  soft, 
otherwise  the  clothes  cannot  be  made  clean.  Soap,  instead  of 
dissolving  and  forming  a  suds,  will  always  curdle  and  flioat  on 
the  surface  of  water  that  is  either  hard  from  being  impreg- 
nated with  lime  or  other  mineral  substances,  or  brackish  from 
its  vicinity  to  the  sea.  The  best  way  of  softening  hard  water, 
when  no  other  can  be  obtained,  is  to  mix  with  it  a  large  quan- 
tity of  strong  lye,  (in  the  proportion  of  one  gallon  of  lye  to 
three  or  four  of  water,)  or  to  stir  into  it  a  little  potash,  which 
last  must  be  sparingly  used,  or  it  will  injure  the  clothes  by 
making  them  so  tender  that  they  will  soon  go  to  pieces. 

In  places  where  all  the  pump  or  well-water  is  hard,  and  the 


8 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


running  water  saltish,  it  is  usual  to  save  rain-water  for  wash- 
ing purposes,  by  catching  it  in  cisterns,  casks,  or  tubs,  placed 
under  the  water-spouts.  Rain-water  casks  should  always 
have  covers  to  prevent  impurities  from  getting  into  the  water. 
They  should  stand  on  feet,  and  be  furnished  with  a  spigot  for 
drawing  the  water  when  wanted.  Unless  you  have  abundance 
of  water,  it  is  impossible  to  wash  the  clothes  clean,  or  to 
make  them  of  a  good  colour ;  and  where  a  sufficiency  can  be 
obtained,  no  good  washer  will  be  sparing  in  the  use  of  it. 
"Washing  in  dirty  suds  is  of  very  little  avail. 

In  America  most  families  have  their  washing  done  once  a 
week.  This  is  much  better,  in  some  respects,  than  the  Euro- 
pean custom  of  monthly  or  quarterly  washes,  as  the  clothes 
derive  great  injury  from  lying  in  their  dirt;  and  also  a  quantity 
of  clothing,  often  inconveniently  large,  is  requisite  when  the 
intervals  between  the  washes  are  so  very  long. 

May  we  be  allowed  to  suggest  that  Tuesday  (though  con- 
trary to  the  usual  custom)  is  a  more  convenient  day  for  wash- 
ing than  Monday ;  as  some  previous  preparation  is  always  ne- 
cessary the  afternoon  or  evening  before;  such,  for  instance, 
as  looking  out  and  assorting  the  clothes,  putting  some  of  them 
in  soak,  ripping  certain  things  apart,  and  replacing  buttons, 
hooks,  and  strings  that  have  been  broken  off;  not  to  mention 
the  probability  that  some  articles,  which  were  put  on  quite 
clean  on  Sunday,  might  very  well  be  worn  one  day  more; 
though  it  would  not  be  considered  worth  while  to  keep  them 
out  of  the  wash  till  next  week.  When  it  is  done  weekly,  it 
is  rarely  necessary  to  devote  more  than  one  day  to  washing, 
and  another  to  ironing ;  and  we  opine  that,  in  general,  it  is  bet- 
ter those  two  days  should  be  Tuesday  and  Wednesday,  rather 
than  Monday  and  Tuesday.  When  it  can  be  deferred,  wash- 
ing should  never  be  done  on  a  rainy  day,  for  many  reasons. 


THE  LAUNDRY. 


9 


For  instance,  it  is  not  well  to  have  the  clothes  lying  all  night 
in  the  tubs,  neither  will  starch  take  effect  in  damp  weather. 
At  all  events,  the  coloured  things  and  the  muslins  should  be 
left  till  it  clears  up.  If  the  family  is  large,  it  is  hest  not  to 
have  the  small  muslins,  laces,  &c.,  done  with  the  general 
wash.  Blankets,  chintz  curtains,  and  other  large  extra  things 
should  always  be  washed  at  extra  times,  and  at  a  season  when 
the  days  are  long  and  bright.  Where  there  are  many  muslins 
and  laces,  it  is  frequently  more  convenient  to  devote  a  morn- 
ing expressly  to  the  purpose  of  doing  them  up,  than  to  put 
them  in  the  general  wash. 

It  is  a  great  convenience  to  have  in  the  laundry  a  large  deep 
closet  for  holding  the  utensils  necessary  for  the  process  of 
washing.  For  instance,  the  kettles,  tubs,  buckets,  clothes- 
baskets,  starch-pans,  lines,  pegs,  washing-boards;  and  also  the 
ironing  apparatus. 

Each  of  the  women  engaged  in  washing  should  be  provided 
with  one  of  the  well-known  grooved  or  fluted  boards,  which, 
by  standing  them  up  in  the  tub  of  suds  and  rubbing  the  clothes 
upon  them,  will  greatly  save  the  hands  and  expedite  the  work. 
They  cost  but  a  trifle,  £md  can  be  procured  wherever  wooden 
ware  is  sold. 

The  best  and  most  durable  clothes-lines  are  those  of  horse- 
hair, or  of  twisted  sea-grass.  Let  them  always  be  wiped 
before  they  are  put  up,  and  taken  down  as  soon  as  all  the 
clothes  are  brought  in.  There  should  be  a  sufficient  number 
of  cleft  wooden  pegs  to  secure  the  clothes  on  the  lines. 
.  There  should  be  tall  posts  along  the  yard,  at  a  convenient 
distance  from  the  fence  or  wall,  for  the  purpose  of  fastening 
the  lines,  which  may  also  be  propped  in  the  middle  by  long 
forked  sticks,  the  largest  end  resting  on  the  ground. 

The  laundry  should  be  furnished  with  broad  stout  benches 


10 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


of  a  convenient  height,  to  .hold  the  tubs  when  the  women  are 
standing  at  them. 

It  is  well  to  have  a  lye-barrel  at  hand,  that  lye  (which  is 
good  for  so  many  purposes)  may  be  ready  at  any  time.  Also 
a  barrel  of  soft  soap,  and  a  tin  or  iron  ladle  for  dipping  it  out. 

The  large  wooden  folding  frames  called  clothes-horses  are 
indispensable  in  a  laundry ;  either  for  the  purpose  of  drying 
wet  clothes  by  the  fire  when  necessary,  or  for  spreading  out 
the  clothes  after  ironing,  to  free  them  from  all  remaining  damp- 
ness. These  clothes-horses  should  have  broad  substantial 
feet,  so  that  they  may  not  be  easily  overset. 

In  Summer  the  perfect  drying  of  the  ironed  white  clothes 
may  be  completed  by  hanging  them  out  in  the  sun. 

There  should  be  large  tubs  for  soaking  the  uncoloured 
clothes  over  night.  In  soaking  coarse  heavy  clothes,  mix  two 
quarts  of  lye  in  the  water  of  a  large  tub. 

You  should  have  a  long  round  hickory  stick,  somewhat  flat- 
tened at  one  end,  to  stir  the  clothes  while  boiling — and  a  long 
stout  hickory  fork,  with  which  to  lift  them  out  of  the  hot  water 
without  scalding  your  hands. 

Either  the  oval  tin  cups  that  hook  on  to  the  edge  of  the  tub, 
or  small  wooden  or  earthen  bowls,  should  be  provided  for  each 
of  the  washers  to  put  their  soap  in ;  it  will  waste  greatly  if 
they  keep  it  all  the  time  in  the  tub,  and  if  they  lay  it  beside 
them  on  the  sloppy  bench  it  will  be  continually  slipping 
down. 

The  indigo  bag  for  blueing  the  rinsing  water  should  be 
made  of  new  white  flannel.  The  usual  form  is  square,  sewed 
all  round  at  the  edges,  leaving  a  small  opening  at  the  top  to 
put  in  the  indigo;  which  opening  must  always  be  sewed  up 
after  replenishing  the  bag  with  a  fresh  supply.  When  you 
use  it,  hold  the  bag  in  the  water,  pressing  it  with  your  fingers 


THE  LAUNDRY. 


11 


till  you  have  squeezed  out  sufficient  blue  to  give  a  very  light 
tinge.  Then  paddle  your  hand  through  the  water  to  diffuse 
the  colour  equally. 

Have  large  strong  bags  to  put  the  dirty  clothes  in  as 
you  take  them  off.  The  bags  should  be  of  substantial  brown 
linen,  or  else  of  ticking,  with  a  string  of  strong  tape  sewed 
to  the  side-seam  a  little  below  the  hem  at  the  top.  If  the 
clothes  are  left  lying  loose  in  the  bottom  of  a  closet  (as  is 
the  custom  in  many  houses,)  they  may  be  injured  by  the  nib- 
bling of  mice  or  of  cockroaches.  Let  there  be  a  separate 
bag.  for  the  small  muslins,  &c. 

In  the  laundry  closet  should  be  kept  all  the  articles  neces- 
sary for  washing  and  ironing.  Among  them,  a  black  bottle 
containing  ox-gall,  which  will  be  found  most  useful  for  co- 
loured things,  as  it  will  greatly  add  to  the  clearness  of  their 
colours.  A  gall  can  be  procured  from  the  butcher  for  a  trifle, 
(generally  six  cents,)  and  no  house  should  be  without  it.  It 
should  be  poured  through  a  funnel  into  the  bottle,  and  kept 
closely  corked.  During  the  process  of  drying,  the  air  will 
entirely  dispel  the  odour  of  the  gall :  but,  if  you  choose,  you 
may  scent  it  in  the  bottle  by  adding  a  little  tincture  of  musk. 

A  large  brass  or  copper  kettle  is  an  indispensable  article  for  a 
laundry ;  as  an  iron  pot  will  stain  the  clothes.  Where  there  is  a 
great  deal  of  washing,  two  kettles  will  be  found  very  convenient. 

For  a  laundry,  a  large  fire-place  is  better  than  a  stove,  as  the 
latter  will  make  the  room  intolerably  hot  in  the  summer.  In 
English  wash-houses  there  is  always  a  great  copper  kettle  set 
in  brick  and  mortar,  with  a  place  for  fire  underneath.  This  is 
a  good  contrivance,  and  saves  the  trouble  of  lifting  the  large 
kettle  on  and  off:  and  of  course  precludes  any  danger  of  its 
oversetting.  We  are  glad  to  find  that  this  apparatus  is  coming 
into  use  in  America. 


12 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Ironing  tables  should  at  least  be  large  enough  for  two  persons 
to  iron  on  at  a  time,  and  should  stand  facing  the  light,  that  the 
women  may  see  perfectly  what  they  are  about.  There  is  a 
very  convenient  ironing-board,  which,  w^hen  not  in  use,  turns 
up,  and  forms  a  high  back  to  a  bench  or  settle  :  which  bench 
should  have  a  drawer  beneath  it  large  enough  to  contain  the 
blanket,  sheet,  holders,  &c. 

The  best  iron-stands  are  those  with  feet  and  handles.  If  a 
mere  ring,  they  are  likely  to  scorch  the  blanket,  and  to  burn 
the  fingers  in  removing  them. 

Holders  should  be  made  of  square  folds  of  clean  old  flannel, 
covered  with  calico  and  sewed  at  the  edges.  They  should  on 
no  account  be  stuffed  or  interlined  with  wadding  or  cotton,  as 
these  substances,  being  very  inflammable,  will  cause  the  holders 
to  blaze  up  in  a  moment,  if  a  spark  should  touch  them  in  taking 
the  iron  f'om  the  fire. 

Old  soft  towels,  or  pieces  of  old  sheets  or  table-cloths,  make 
excellent  iron-wipers.  They  should  be  kept  entirely  free  from 
grease  or  wet,  and  never  used  for  any  purpose  but  the  proper 
one. 

The  ironing  blanket  should  be  large,  smooth,  and  thick,  as 
well  as  the  sheet  that  is  to  be  spread  over  it  when  used.  There 
must  not,  in  either,  be  any  holes  or  patches,  as  those  defects 
will  cause  the  surface  to  be  uneven,  and  prevent  the  clothes 
from  ironing  smoothly. 

Bits  of  bees-wax  should  be  kept  at  hand  to  rub  (for  an  instant) 
over  the  irons  as  they  are  taken  from  the  fire,  to  remove  any 
smoke  or  roughness  that  may  adhere  to  them. 

It  is  well  to  have  a  strong  bag  always  hanging  in  the  laundry 
to  contain  the  bees-wax,  indigo  bag,  bits  of  spermaceti,  and 
other  little  things  belonging  to  washing  and  ironing. 

There  should  be  regular  white  cotton  cloth  kept  exclusively 


LAUNDRY  WORK. 


13 


for  the  purpose  of  straining  starch  :  always  washing  it  out  and 
drying  it  before  it  is  put  away. 

A  mangling  machine,  for  the  purpose  of  smoothing  table  and 
bed  linen  and  various  other  things,  will  be  found  well  worth  its 
cost,  in  saving  the  time  and  trouble  of  ironing  these  articles, 
and  in  the  superiority  which  it  gives  to  their  appearance. 

Skirt-boards  are  very  convenient  for  ironing  the  skirts  of 
dresses.    Also  bosom-boards  for  shirts. 

When  the  washing  is  over  for  the  day,  the  tubs,  buckets,  &c., 
should  be  make  clean  and  turned  up  to  dry ;  all  the  articles 
used  should  be  put  away  in  their  proper  places,  and  the  floor 
wiped  up  vi^ith  a  mop  or  cloth. 

Tubs,  buckets,  barrels,  churns,  and  other  utensils  of  cooper- 
work,  should  never  be  left  out  of  doors  when  empty :  as  the 
sun  and  air  will  contract  the  wood  and  open  the  seams,  causing 
the  vessel  to  leak. 

All  these  things  will  last  much  longer  if  painted  on  the  out- 
side. 

In  Philadelphia  it  is  very  customary  for  families,  as  well  as 
single  persons,  to  put  out  their  washing.  There  are  many 
excellent  washerwomen  who  take  it  by  the  month  or  quarter,  at 
a  very  reasonable  price ;  and  if  the  washing  only  is  put  out, 
and  the  clothes  brought  rough-dried  to  be  ironed  at  home,  the 
expense  will  be  found  scarcely,  if  a-t  all,  to  exceed  that  of  hav- 
ing it  done  in  your  own  house ;  and  you  are  relieved  from  the 
trouble  and  inconvenience  of  a  washing-day. 

TO  MAKE  LYE. — For  this  purpose  hickory  aphes  is  the 
best :  but  good  oak  ashes  will  do  very  well.  Ashes  of  anthra- 
cite coal  cannot  be  used  for  lye. 

For  very  fine  lye  of  moderate  strength,  the  ashes  must  be 
sifted  or  riddled  through  a  strong  wire  sieve,  to  free  it  from  bits 

3 


14  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

• 

of  cinder.  To  two  quarts  of  hickory  ashes,  or  three  quarts  of 
oak,  allow  a  gallon  of  soft  water.  Boil  the  water  by  itself; 
and  then,  when  scalding  hot,  pour  it  on  the  ashes  ;  let  it  stand 
till  quite  cold.  Afterwards,  strain  the  lye  through  a  clean 
coarse  cloth  into  another  vessel.    It  should  be  quite  clear. 

Another  way  of  making  lye  is  to  put  into  a  kettle  two  quarts 
of  hickory  or  three  quarts  of  oak  ashes.  Pour  on  four  quarts 
of  cold  soft  water;  boil  it;  and  when  it  comes  to  a  hard  boil, 
take  it  off  the  fire,  and  put  it  aside  to  settle.  Then  pour  it  from 
the  dregs  or  sediment  through  a  clean  coarse  cloth,  and 
strahi  it. 

In  boiling  white  clothes,  put  a  large  tea-cupful  of  clear  lye 
into  the  wash-kettle.  This  is  the  proper  proportion  to  two 
buckets  of  water. 

In  washing  black  worsted  clothes,  such  as  bombazines, 
bombazets,  black  merinos,  &c.,  put  a  tea-cupful  of  lye  into  the 
first  water.    It  will  make-the  black  colour  look  bright  and  fresh. 

Lye  will  set  the  colour  of  new  nankeen.  Before  it  is  made 
up,  the  nankeen  should  be  soaked  all  night  in  a  tub  of  clear 
lye,  moderately  strong.  If  the  nankeen  is  of  real  Chinese 
manufacture,  and  not  the  imitation  that  is  made  in  Europe,  soak- 
ing it  in  lye  before  it  is  cut  out,  will  prevent  it  from  fading  ever 
after. 


TO  KEEP  SOAP-FAT  FROM  MOULDING.— When 
you  have  collected  a  large  quantity  of  kitchen  fat,  you  may 
prevent  it  from  spoiling  in  the  crocks,  and  have  it  ready  at  any 
time  for  soap,  by  making  a  weak  lye  on  purpose,  and  boiling 
the  fat  in  it  till  it  is  thoroughly  melted.  The  fat  will  rise  to 
the  top  of  the  kettle.  Set  it  away  in  the  kettle  to  cool.  When 
quite  cold,  you  may  take  it  off  in  a  round  cake.  Wrap  the 
cake  closely  in  clean  brown  paper,  (so  as  entirely  to  exclude 


LAUNDRX  WORK. 


15 


the  air,)  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place.  This  is  an  excellent  way 
of  preserving  the  fat  through  the  summer,  to  be  made  into  soap 
in  the  autumn. 


ANOTHER  WAY.— Some  good  housewives  who  keep  a 
perpetual  lye-barrel,  keep  also  a  covered  tub  half-filled  with 
lye,  into  which  they  throw,  every  day,  whatever  kitchen  fat  is 
proper  for  soap  making.  This  will  effectually  preserve  it  from 
moulding,  till  you  wish  to  use  it  for  soap.  An  old  meat-tub 
will  answer  very  well  for  this  purpose.   It  must  be  kept  covered. 

TO  MAKE  SOFT  SOAP.— Soft  soap  is  a  most  useful 
article  in  washing  heavy  clothes,  and  in  scrubbing  floors. 
When  using  it,  keep  it  beside  you  in  a  tin  pan.  It  can  easily 
be  made  in  any  house  where  wood  is  burned,  though  in  cities 
it  is  the  usual  custom  to  exchange  fat  and  ashes  for  hard  soap. 
You  should  keep  in  the  cellar  large  earthen  crocks  as  recep- 
tacles for  all  the  grea&e  and  fat  that  comes  from  the  kitchen, 
such  as  bits  of  the  fat  of  meat,  bacon  skins,  drippings,  &c. 
The  fat  of  beef  and  p  ork  makes  the  best  soap.  The  crocks 
should  have  tin  or  wooden  covers.  There  should  be  a  separate 
place  in  the  cellar  for  the  wood  ashe's,  and  great  care  is  neces- 
sary in  putting  it  away,  to  see  that  there  are  no  bits  of  hot  coal 
among  it ;  as  houses  have  taken  fire  from  a  neglect  of  this 
precaution.  For  making  soap,  the  ashes  should  be  as  fresh 
and  new  as  possible ;  and  of  good  oak,  with  a  small  mixture 
of  hickory  :  for  instance,  one-fourth.  It  can  be  made,  however, 
though  not  quite  so  good,  with  oak  ashes  only. 

You  must  have  an  ash- tub  or  barrel,  which  should  be  tall 
and  high  :  but  is  best  of  a  funnel  shape,  narrowing  dowa 
towards  the  bottom ;  and  in  the  bottom  should  be  a  hole  not 
larger  in  diameter  than  a  half  dollar.    The  ash-tub  should  stand 


16 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


on  wooden  skids  or  legs,  high  enough  to  admit  a  large  common 
tub  underneath.  Lay  several  bricks  inside  the  bottom  round 
the  hole.  The  bricks  are  for  the  purpose  of  keeping  up  the 
ashes.  Then  cover  both  bricks  and  hole  with  a  layer  of  straw, 
through  which  the  lye  is  to  filter.  Then  fill  the  barrel  with 
five  or  six  bushels  of  ashes  packed  down  hard,  (but  not  quite 
full  to  the  top,)  and  set  a  large  clean  tub  underneath.  Pour  in 
sufficient  boiling  water  (about  two  or  three  buckets  full)  to 
moisten  the  ashes  throughout ;  as  beginning  with  hot  water  is 
a  very  quickening  process  in  making  the  lye.  It  will  be  a  great 
improvement  to  mix  with  the  boiling  water  about  two  gallons 
of  slacked  lime,  or  one  of  unslacked.  Then  pour  in  a  gallon 
or  more  of  cold  water,  about  once  an  hour  for  a  whole  day. 

Next  day  try  the  lye  that  has  dripped  into  the  tub  beneath. 
The  first  will  be  very  strong,  but  it  will  gradually  become 
weaker.  The  proper  strength  for  beginning  the  soap  is  when  an 
egg  placed  in  the  lye-tub  will  continue  at  the  top  with  only  about 
the  size  of  a  ten  cent  piece  appearing  above  the  surface  of  the 
lye.  If  nearly  the  whole  egg,  or  indeed  the  half  of  it  keeps 
above,  the  lye  is  too  strong.  If  the  egg  sinks  entirely  below 
th'e  surface,  the  lye  is  quite  too  weak.  If  you  find  it  impos- 
sible otherwise  to  get  the  lye  of  sufficient  strength,  you  must 
empty  out  all  the  ashes,  fill  the  barrel  afresh,  and  go  through 
the  whole  process  again,  as  weak  lye  will  never  make  soap. 

When  you  find  that  the  lye  is  of  the  proper  quality,  take 
away  the  tub,  and  place  another  one  under  the  barrel  to  catch 
the  weaker  drippings,  which  you  must  keep  to  fill  up  the  soap- 
pot  when  necessary. 

To  begin  the  soap ; — allow  about  three  pounds  of  fat  to  a 
bucket  of  lye.  Put  the  fat  by  itself  into  a  very  large  kettle 
over  a  hot  fire,  and  melt  it;  stirring  it  well  with  a  round  stick 
flattened  at  one  end.    When  the  fat  has  all  melted,  pour  in  the 


LAUNDRY    AV  0  R  K. 


17 


Strong  lye  by  degrees;  stirring  it  well,  (and  always  one  way,) 
till  the  fat  and  the  lye  are  thoroughly  incorporated.  Then 
moderate  the  fire,  and  boil  it  slowly  and  steadily  all  day,  till 
it  becomes  thick  and  ropy,  stirring  it  occasionally.  A  piece 
of  lime  thrown  in  while  boiling,  will  improve  it.  If  it  boils 
too  hard,  it  will  go  over.  If  not  boiled  enough,  the  soap  will 
turn  again  to  lye.  If,  in  boiling,  the  fat  disappears  entirely 
from  the  top,  add  more  fat,  as  there  should  be  some  indication 
of  it  on  the  surface.  If  there  should  happen  to  be  too  much 
fat,  it  can  be  skimmed  off  when  the  soap  is  cold.  As  it  boils, 
continue  to  fill  it  up  with  lye  till  the  soap  becomes  of  a  proper 
consistence.  If  the  lye  is  too  strong,  it  will  not  unite  with  it. 
Try  the  soap  by  occasionally  taking  out  some  in  a  dish  or 
ladle,  and  setting  it  in  the  open  air.  It  should  be  of  a  bright 
brown  colour,  and  clear,  and  thick  as  a  jelly  when  cold. 

When  done,  pour  it  off  into  tubs  or  buckets,  and  carry  it 
into  the  cellar  to  cool.  When  cold,  empty  it  into  a  barrel : 
keep  it  in  a  dry  place,  and  stir  it  frequently  with  a  long  stii?k 
during  the  first  three  or  four  days.  It  will  then  be  fit  for  use. 
You  should  make  your  soap  in  the  spring  or  autumn.  If  good 
it  will  keep  more  than  a'year. 

If  you  intend  to  make  two-kettles  full  of  soap,  divide  the 
strong  lye  and  reserve  one  half  for  the  second  kettle. 

COMMON  HARD  SOAP.— Having  made  from  hickory 
asheSj  or  the  best  oak,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  lye,  which  must 
be  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg,  allow  to  each  gallon  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  clean  kitchen  fat  of  the  best  kind,  (that 
has  been  clarified  by  melting  it  with  water,)  and  a  bit  of  lime 
the  size  of  a  large  hickory  nut.  Put  it  into  a  large  kettle,  boil 
it  very  fast,  and  stir  it  frequently.  It  must  boil  hard  for  several 
hours;  Try  it  by  taking  out  a  little  and  cooling  it  on  a  plate. 
2* 


18 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


When  you  find  that  it  becomes  a  thick  jelly,  and  no  grease 
appears  about  it,  stir  fine  salt  into  the  kettle,  allowing  a  pint 
of  salt  to  three  gallons  of  the  soap.  Let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes 
after  the  salt  is  in.  Then  take  it  out  of  the  kettle  and  put  the 
soap  in  tubs  to  cool,  and  wash  the  kettle  clean.  Next  day  cut 
the  soap  out  of  the  tubs,  and  melt  it  again,  and  cool  it  in  wooden 
moulds,  if  you  have  them.  When  it  is  firm,  cut  it  into  square 
pieces,  of  convenient  size  for  washing,  and  place  it  on  shelves 
to  harden,  not  allowing  the  pieces  to  touch  each  other. 

The  best  kitchen  fat  for  soap  is  that  of  beef  and  pork  or 
bacon.  Should  any  pork  or  bacon  skins  be  among  it,  you  must 
allow  a  pound  of  fat  to  each  gallon  of  lye. 

If,  in  trying  it  in  the  plate,  before  putting  in  the  salt,  you  fi:nd 
the  soap  too  liquid,  add  a  little  water  to  that  on  the  plate,  for 
the  purpose  of  making  it  jelly.  You  will  then  be  able  to 
ascertain  how  much  cold  water  must  be  added  to  that  in  th» 
kettle  for  the  same  purpose ;  it  being  evident  that  the  lye  is  tof 
strong.    This  must  be  done  before  the  salt  is  put  in. 

A  larger  quantity  of  lime,  put  in  while  boiling,  will  make 
the  soap  still  harder. 

You  may  harden  it  also,  by  adding,  while  the  soap  is  boil- 
ing, a  little  sulphate  of  iron.  This  will  give  it  a  marbled  oi 
mottled  appearance. 

FINE  HARD  SOAP.— Take  fifteen  pounds  of  the  best 
lard,  or  of  clean  fresh  suet.  Put  it  into  a  large  kettle,  hang  it 
over  a  moderate  fire,  and  make  it  boil.  Have  ready  a  quantity 
of  excellent  clear  lye,  five  gallons  of  which  must  be  strong 
enough  to  bear  up  an  egg.  Add  with  a  ladle,  a  very  little  at  a 
time  of  this  lye  to  the  fat  in  the  kettle,  and  put  it  in  slowly 
for  a  while  at  first ;  otherwise,  it  will  instantly  cause  the  fat  to 
rise  up  so  high  as  to  overflow,  and  perhaps  endanger  the  person 


LAUNDRY  WORK. 


19 


that  is  making  the  soap.  When  this  tendency  to  eiFervesce 
seems  to  diminish,  the  lye  may  be  poured  in  by  larger  quanti- 
ties. Keep  the  kettle  boiling  thus  (and  well  skimmed)  till  all 
the  five  gallons  of  strong  lye  have  been  put  in.  Then  add 
another  gallon  of  lye,  weakened  by  an  equal  quantity  of  water. 
The  whole  will  then  have  the  appearance  of  liquid  soap.  Then 
try  a  small  quantity  by  putting  it  into  cold  water,  and  if  no 
particles  of  grease  appear  on  the  top,  it  will  be  in  a  fit  state  to 
receive  the  salt  which  is  to  harden  it.  If  you  see  any  grease, 
add  some  more  lye,  and  give  it  another  boil  up.  When  you 
find  it  in  proper  order,  stir  in  gradually  three  quarts  of  fine  salt. 
Then  try  the  soap  by  taking  out  a  small  portion,  and  setting  it 
to  cool.  If  it  does  not  seem  sufficiently  stiff,  or  likely  to  harden 
well,  add  another  quart  of  salt,  and  give  it  another  boil  up. 

The  soap  will  now  be  all  towards  the  top  of  the  kettle,  and 
the  lye  beneath  it  at  the  bottom.  Skim  off  the  soap,  taking 
care  not  to  stir  it  so  as  to  mix  in  the  lye  through  it.  Put  it 
into  square  pans  or  moulds,  and  set  it  away  to  harden  thoroughly. 
The  lye  that  remains  at  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  should  be 
saved  for  washing  coarse  clothes. 

When  your  soap  has  become  quite  hard,  take  it  out  of  the 
moulds  or  pans  and  lay  it  on  boards  to  dry  thoroughly.  The 
above  quantity  of  ingredients  will,  if  properly  managed, 
produce  thirty-five  pounds  of  firm,  close,  fine  soap. 

If  your  lard  or  suet  is  not  of  the  very  best  quality,  take  it  off 
after  it  is  all  melted,  strain  it,  and  return  it  to  the  kettle,  before 
you  begin  to  put  in  the  lye. 

To  perfume  it,  take  a  portion  and  melt  it  over  again,  first 
cutting  it  into  small  pieces.  Then,  while  liquid,  beat  it  in  a 
mortar  with  tincture  of  musk,  oil  of  bergamot,  oil  of  almonds, 
palm  oil,  or  any  other  essential  oil  that  has  a  fine  scent,  and  is 
not  so  pungent  as  to  irritate  the  skin.    Then,  when  it  is 


20 


T  U  E    HOUSE  BOOK. 


thorouglily  imbued  with  the  perfume,  put  it  4nto  small  square 
tin  moulds,  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 

STARCH  OF  HOME  MANUFACTURE.— Take  a  peck 
of  unground  wheat  of  the  best  quality ;  pick  and  wash  it  care- 
fully. Next  put  it  into  a  tub ;  pour  on  sufficient  clear  soft 
water  to  cover  it,  and  then  set  it  in  the  sun.  Be  sure  to 
change  the  water  every  day:  keeping  it  in  the  sun  as  much  as 
possible,  or  in  an  equally  warm  place  in  the  house,  should  the 
weather  prove  unfavourable.  When  all  the  grains  of  wheat 
have  become  quite  soft,  rub  it  well  in  your  hands,  and  separate 
it  from  the  husks,  which  must  be  thrown  into  another  tub. 
Let  the  soft  wheat  settle  into  a  mass ;  and  then  pour  off  the 
water,  and  put  on  fresh.  Stir  it  well,  and  let  it  settle  again. 
Repeat  this  every  day,  till  the  last  water  comes  off  clear  and 
colourless.  Then  pour  the  water  finally  off.  Take  the  starch 
out  of  the  tub,  collect  it  into  a  thin  bag,  and  hang  it  for  a  few 
days  in  the  sun;  after  which,  spread  it  on  dishes  to  dry. 

TO  PREPARE  COMMON  STARCH.— Put  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  dry  starch  (for  instance  from  two  to  three  table- 
spoonfuls)  into  a  bowl,  and  mix  it  gradually  with  just  enough 
of  clear  cold  water  to  make  it  a  thin  paste,  pressing  out  all 
the  lumps  with  the  back  of  the  spoon  till  you  get  it  perfectly 
smooth.  Then  pour  it  into  a  clean  pipkin  or  skillet.  Have 
ready  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  by  degrees  add  some  of  it 
to  the  starch,  stirring  it  well.  You  may  allow  from  a  pint  to 
a  quart  of  the  hot  water,  according  as  you  wish  to  have  the 
starch  thick,  thin,  or  moderate.  Set  it  on  hot  coals,  and  boil 
it  well  for  half  an  hour.  If  not  well  boiled,  it  will  not  be 
glutinous.  When  it  has  boiled  about  fifteen  minutes,  stir  it  a 
few  times  (merely  for  a  moment  each)  with  the  end  of  a  sper- 


LAUNDRY  WORK- 


SI 


maceti  candle.  This  will  prevent  its  being  sticky ;  but  take 
care  not  to  stir  it  too  much.  If  you  have  no  spermaceti,  sprin- 
kle in  a  little  salt,  (about  a  tea-spoonful  to  a  pint  of  starch,) 
which  will  answer  a  similar  purpose,  or  throw  in  a  lump  of 
loaf  sugar.    Finish  by  stirring  it  hard  with  a  spoon. 

Strain  the  starch  through  a  white  cloth  into  a  large  pan,  and 
squeeze  into  it  a  very  little  blue  from  the  indigo  bag ;  but  it 
must  be  but  a  very  little. 

For  common  coloured  dresses  you  may  make  the  starch  with 
fine  flour  mixed  as  above. 


GUM  ARABIC  STARCH.— Get  two  ounces  of  fine  white 
gum  arable,  and  pound  it  to  powder.  Next  put  it  into  a 
pitcher,  and  pour  on  it  a  pint  or  more  of  boiling  water,  (ac- 
cording to  the  degree  of  strength  you  desire,)  and  then,  hav- 
ing covered  it,  let  it  set  all  night.  In  the  morning,  pour  it 
carefully  from  the  dregs  into  a  clean  bottle,  cork  it,  and  keep 
it  for  use. 

A  table-spoonful  of  gum  water  stirred  into  a  pint  of  starch 
that  has  been  made  in  the  usual  manner,  will  give  to  lawns 
(either  white  or  painted)  a  look  of  newness  to  which  nothing 
else  can  restore  them  after  washing. 

It  is  also  good  (much  diluted)  for  thin  white  muslin  and 
bobbinet. 

COFFEE  STARCH.— This  is  excellent  for  mourning 
chintzes,  or  for  any  thing  that  is  very  dark;  the  common 
starch  giving  a  whitish,  ashy,  or  dusty  appearance  to  these  ar- 
ticles. Make,  in  the  usual  manner,  a  tea-cupful  of  strong 
coffee ;  mix  it  with  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  water,  and  then 
boil  it.  In  the  mean  time,  mix  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the 
finest  dry  starch  with  enough  of  cold  water  to  make  it  a 


22 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


smooth  paste.  There  must  both  together  be  a  pint,  when 
the  starch  paste  is  added  to  the  diluted  coffee.  When  the  cof- 
fee is  boiling  hard,  put  in  the  staich  gradually,  and  stir  it  well. 
After  it  is  all  in,  let  it  boil  well  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  and 
give  it  a  stir  with  a  spermaceti  candle.  Put  it  into  an  earthen 
pan,  and  when  cool  run  the  dress  through  it,  squeezing  it  well. 


GLUE  STIFFENING.— This  is  used  for  dark  chintzes  or 
calicoes.  Take  a  piece  of  glue  about  the  size  of  the  palm  of 
your  hand ;  break  it  up,  and  put  it  into  a  vessel,  with  from 
three  quarts  to  a  gallon  of  soft  water.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and 
let  it  boil  till  the  glue  is  entirely  dissolved.  Then  take  it  off, 
pour  it  into  a  large  pan,  and  when  it  is  of  a  lukewarm  heat 
(not  cooler)  it  is  fit  for  use.  Put  the  dress  into  it,  and  work 
it  about  till  it  has  thoroughly  taken  the  glue  water.  Then 
squeeze  it  well,  open  it  out,  and  dry  it  as  fast  as  possible. 
Afterwards,  sprinkle,  roll  it  up,  and  iron  it. 


WASHING  WHITE  CLOTHES.— The  white  clothes 
are  always  to  be  washed  first.  They  will  wash  the  easier  if 
put  to  soak  the  preceding  night  in  large  tubs  with  a  mixture 
of  lye  and  milk-warm  water ;  allowing  a  pint  of  lye  to  three 
buckets  of  water.  Stockings  particularly  should  always  be 
put  in  soak.  Early  in  the  morning,  heat  a  sufficiency  of  water 
for  what  is  called  firsting  and  seconding  the  clothes.  When 
put  into  the  tubs,  dilute  with  enough  of  cold  water  to  make  it 
just  warm  enough  to  bear  your  hand  in — if  too  hot  it  will 
rather  set  the  dirt  into  the  clothes  than  take  it  out.  For  linen, 
muslin,  &c.,  do  not  make  a  lather  with  the  soap  before  you 
put  in  the  clothes,  but  rub  the  soap  on  the  article  as  you  pro- 
ceed ;  taking  the  most  pains  with  the  dirtiest  places.  Have 
ready  beside  you  a  second  tub  with  warm  water,  and  throw 


WASHING. 


23 


into  it  the  things,  one  by  one,  as  you  wash  them  out  of  the 
first.  Or  when  two  women  are  washing  together,  let  one 
take  the  first  water,  and  the  other  the  second. 

There  should  be  on  the  fire  a  large  brass  or  copper  kettle 
filled  with  water  for  boiling  the  clothes,  and  they  will  look 
whiter  and  better  if  you  mix  with  the  water  in  the  kettle  a 
tea-cup  full  of  strong  clear  lye.  After  washing  them  well 
through  the  first  and  second  warm  waters,  put  the  bed-linen, 
table-linen,  and  white  towels  into  the  kettle,  and  take  them  out 
as  soon  as  they  come  to  a  hard  boil ;  or  boil  them  slowly  half 
an  hour — a  longer  boiling  will  injure  them.  Stir  them  fre- 
quently with  the  long  round  hickory  stick  kept  for  the  pur- 
pose. The  shirts,  chemises,  night-gowns,  handkerchiefs  and 
other  muslins  must  not  be  boiled,  but  scalded  by  putting  them 
into  a  clean  tub  and  pouring  hot  water  upon  them ;  for  instance, 
from  a  larger  kettle  with  a  spout.  No  coloured  clothes  should 
ever  be  boiled  or  scalded,  as  it  will  destroy  the  colour;  neither 
should  white  things  with  coloured  borders. 

In  boiling  clothes,  see  that  there  is  all  the  time  plenty  of 
water  in  the  kettle.  If  the  water  gets  too  low,  the  clothes 
will  scorch  or  burn. 

When  the  things  have  boiled  properly,  take  them  out, 
put  them  into  a  tub  of  cold  water,  and  wash  them  through  it 
without  soap — and  then  throw  them  into  another  tub  of  cold 
water  and  rinse  them  well.  Lastly,  rinse  them  in  a  tub  of 
cold  water  tinged  with  a  little  blue  by  squeezing  into  it  the 
indigo  bag.  The  things  that  have  been  scalded  must  also  be 
put  through  three  cold  waters,  the  last  one  slightly  blued. 

In  taking  them  out  of  every  water  the  clothes  should  be 
wrung  hard.  After  rinsing  in  the  blue  water,  hang  them  on 
the  lines  to  dry  in  the  sun,  securing  them  with  the  clothes  pegs. 

Let  them  all  be  brought  in  at  the  close  of  the  afternoon,  if 


24 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


not  before ;  as  after  sunset  they  will  dry  no  more.  If  still  not 
dry,  spread  them  out  on  the  wooden  clothes-horses,  or  hang 
them  on  lines  in  a  garret,  back  kitchen,  or  in  any  convenient 
room,  if  you  have  not  a  laundry. 

WASHING  WITH  SODA.— This  method  can  only  be 
pursued  with  white  clothes,  (that  is,  linen  and  cotton :)  it  is 
injurious  to  woollen,  and  to  coloured  articles  of  every  de- 
scription. If  done  with  great  care,  it  answers  very  well  for 
bed-linen,  table-linen,  &c.,  making  them  white  and  clean 
without  the  labour  of  rubbing,  except  in  a  few  places  that  may 
be  particularly  soiled.  The  things  to  be  washed  must  al! 
be  laid  in  soak  the  night  before,  in  cold  soft  water.  Early  in 
the  morning,  put  into  the  wash-kettle,  a  mixture  m  the  pro- 
portion of  six  gallons  of  soft  water,  a  pound  of  hard  soap  cut 
into  small  pieces,  (or  a  pint  and  a  half  of  soft  soap,)  and  two 
ounces  of  sub-carbonate  of  soda,  which  can  be  obtained  at  the 
druggist's  for  a  trifle.  Hang  the  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  make 
it  boil.  In  the  mean  time,  lift  the  clothes  out  of  the  soaking 
tubs  with  the  clothes-stick,  and  rub  a  little  soap  on  those  parts 
that  are  unusually  dirty.  When  the  mixture  in  the  kettle  is 
at  boiling  heat,  put  in  the  clothes,  and  boil  them  one  hour (not 
more.)  Then  take  them  out  with  the  clothes-stick  and  drain 
them,  by  laying  them  across  an  old  clothes-basket  turned 
bottom  upwards  in  a  large  tub.  See  that  they  are  thoroughly 
drained ;  then  rinse  and  wring  them  through  a  tub  of  warm 
water ;  and,  lastly,  through  a  tub  of  cold  water  tinged  with 
blue  from  the  indigo  bag.  Wring  them  well,  and  hang  them 
out  to  dry. 

Care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  more  than  the  proper  pro- 
portion of  soda,  (two  ounces  to  five  gallons  of  water,)  and  that 
it  is  the  precise  article  required — sub-carbonate  of  soda.  In 


WASHING. 


25 


sending  for  it  to  the  druggist's,  it  is  well  always  to  write  its 
exact  name  on  a  slip  of  paper.  Also,  the  clothes  must  not 
boil  too  long,  and  they  must  be  thoroughly  drained  and  rinsed. 
Some  washerwomen  and  servants  are  in  the  habit  of  putting 
in  more  than  the  allotted  quantity  of  soda,  thinking  to  increase 
the  whiteness  of  the  clothes  in  a  shorter  time  :  but  too  much 
soda  has  the  effect  of  making  them  what  is  called  tender,  and 
causing  them  very  soon  to  slit  and  drop  to  pieces.  This  prac- 
tice (together  with  the  long  boiling)  has  excited  much  preju- 
dice against  the  use  of  soda  in  washing ;  and  it  is  an  abuse 
that  it  is  difficult  to  guard  against,  when  the  washing  is  not 
done  under  your  own  immediate  inspection.  Nevertheless,  if 
you  are  careful  not  to  put  in  more  than  the  due  proportion,  the 
soda  will  be  found  to  lighten  the  labour  of  the  washers. 

Such,  however,  is  the  care  and  exactness  required  in  wash- 
ing with  soda,  and  so  injurious  its  effects  when  used  impro- 
perly, that  we  think  it  should  only  be  intrusted  to  persons 
who  are  themselves  particularly  interested  in  the  preservation 
of  the  clothes.  If  you  have  not  perfect  confidence  in  your 
washerwomen  or  servants,  it  is  safest  to  have  your  white 
clothes  made  clean  in  the  usual  manner,  by  washing  through 
two  warm  lathers,  and  boiling  them  afterwards  but  a  very  short 
time. 


TO  WHITEN  CLOTHES.—After  they  are  well  washed, 
spread  them  in  the  sun  on  the  grass  for  two  or  three  days  : 
bringing  them  in  after  the  sun  declines,  lest  they  should  be 
mildewed  by  the  evening  damp. 

Small  muslins  should  always  be  laid  on  the  grass  to  whiten 
after  washing,  except  in  winter;  and  then  they  should  be 
pinned  to  towels,  and  hung  on  a  line  exposed  to  the  sun. 
3 


26 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


TO  BLEACH  A  FADED  DRESS.— If  you  find  that  a 
coloured  muslin  or  chintz  with  a  white  ground  has  faded  very 
much  in  washing,  you  may  discharge  the  colour  entirely,  and 
wear  it  as  a  white  dress,  provided  it  has  not  been  sewed  with 
coloured  silk.  For  this  purpose,  having  first  well  washed  it  in 
hot  suds,  boil  it  till  the  colour  seems  to  be  gone ;  then  wash  it  out 
of  the  boil,  rinse  it,  and  dry  it  in  the  sun.  Then,  if  not  quite 
white,  lay  it  on  the  grass  where  the  sun  is  very  hot,  and  bleach 
it  for  several  days.   If  still  not  quite  white,  repeat  the  boiling. 

SPRINKLING  AND  FOLDING.— When  your  clothes 
are  quite  dry,  and  you  have  brought  them  to  the  house  in  the 
baskets,  spread  them  one  at  a  time  on  a  large  clean  table  or  iron- 
ing-board, and  sprinkle  them  well  by  dipping  your  hand  in  a 
pan  of  clean  cold  water.  Then  pull  and  stretch  them,  and  fold 
or  roll  them  tightly.  Put  the  small  muslins  all  together,  and 
roll  round  them  a  large  clean  towel. 

In  folding  shirts,  turn  inwards  the  collars,  bosoms,  and 
wristbands;  rolling  up  the  shirt  tightly,  with  the  back 
outside. 

Dresses  must  be  folded  with  the  bodies  and  sleeves  inside. 
The  collars  of  loose  gowns  should  be  turned  inwards ;  also  the 
ruffles  or  trimming  of  pantalets. 

IRONING. — If  you  have  not  a  laundry-room  separate  from 
the  kitchen,  it  is  best  on  ironing  days  to  arrange  the  dinner 
so  as  to  have  nothing  to  roast  before  the  fire ;  as  unless  the  fire- 
place is  extremely  large,  ironing  and  roasting  cannot  go  on 
together,  on  the  same  hearth,  without  inconvenience. 

For  ironing,  have  a  clean  well-swept  hearth,  and  a  large, 
clear,  broad  fire,  with  plenty  of  bright  hot  coals,  as  they  heat 


IRONING.  27 

the  irons  much  better  than  a  blaze.  Chunks  of  wood  will 
blacken  and  smoke  the  irons. 

Your  ironing  table  should  be  large,  and  used  only  for  that 
purpose,  or  for  sprinkling  and  folding  clothes.  At  least  no 
greasy  work  should  be  done  on  it ;  but  if  that  is  unavoidable, 
it  should  be  well  scoured  afterwards.  It  should  have  a  com- 
modious drawer  or  drawers  for  the  blanket  and  the  sheet,  the 
wipers,  holders,  iron-stands,  bees-wax,  &c.  It  is  well  to  have 
always  at  hand  a  piece  of  bees-wax  or  the  end  of  a  spermaceti 
candle.  This  if  rubbed  on  the  iron  the  moment  it  is  taken  from 
the  fire,  and  wiped  off  instantly,  will  add  greatly  to  its  smooth- 
ness. If  you  find  that  the  iron  scorches  or  burns  the  wiper,  it 
will  also  scorch  the  clothes  :  therefore  stand  it  aside  on  a  cool 
part  of  the  hearth,  or  set  it  out  of  doors  on  the  brick  pavement, 
and  try  another  iron  while  it  is  cooling.  The  thinner  the 
article  that  is  to  be  ironed,  the  less  heat  it  will  require. 

For  every  person  occupied  in  ironing,  there  should  be  an 
allowance  of  three  irons  at  least.  If  one  person  is  ironing 
alone,  there  should  be  four  irons.  It  is  a  loss  of  time  to  wait 
idly  for  want  of  an  iron  that  may  be  hot  enough  or  cool  enough ; 
which  must  always  be  the  case  if  the  number  in  use  is  too 
scknty. 

There  should  be  a  large  clothes-horse  at  hand,  on  which  to 
hang  the  things  as  they  come  from  the  ironing  table,  that  all 
dampness  may  be  thoroughly  dried  out  of  them,  before  they 
are  put  away.  For  laces,  muslins,  and  other  very  slight  things 
that  dry  completely  in  the  process  of  ironing,  you  should  have 
a  broad  basket  and  lay  them  lightly  in  it,  as  you  finish  them. 
In  summer,  sheets  and  table-cloths  may  after  ironing  be  hung 
I  out  on  the  clothes-line  in  the  hot  sun ;  turning  them  often. 
Before  using  an  iron  for  lace  or  thin  muslin,  smooth  over 
with  it  one  or  two  kitchen  towels,  or  some  other  small  thick 


28 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


article.  Be  careful  in  ironing  lace,  ribbons,  or  any  long  nar- 
row strips,  not  to  stretch  them  crooked,  but  do  them  slowly, 
straight,  and  evenly  ;  and  with  the  point  of  the  iron  press  out 
every  scollop  separately.  Always  iron  lace  and  needle-work 
on  the  wrong  side.  In'  ironing  collars,  do  them  first  length- 
ways, and  then  crossways — and  take  care  not  to  stretch  one 
half  of  the  collar  larger  than  the  other.  Pleated  frills  never 
look  so  well  as  when  the  pleats  are  laid  down  with  the  fingers ; 
and  skill  in  pleating  is  only  to  be  acquired  by  practice.  Care 
should  be  taken  to  make  all  the  pleats  exactly  of  the  same  size 
and  perfectly  straight.  Crooked,  uneven,  or  slanting  pleats  look 
very  badly.  A  rufile  with  a  very  narrow  hem  pleats  much 
more  easily  than  one  with  a  broad  hem.  On  a  small  frill, 
crimping  the  edge  with  a  straight  knife  may  be  substituted  for 
pleating. 

In  ironing  a  night-cap,  do  the  crown  first,  and  then  the  bor- 
der ;  lastly,  the  strings  and  bands. 

Ribbons  and  silks  should  be  smoothed  with  an  iron  just 
warm  enough  to  press  out  the  creases.  A  hot  iron  will  change 
the  colour.  Green  ribbons  always  change  in  ironing :  blues 
and  pinks  become  darker.  Silks  should  be  sprinkled,  folded, 
and  rolled  up  tightly  an  hour  or  more  before  they  are  ironed. 
They  should  always  be  done  on  the  wrong  side  where  prac- 
ticable. 

'  Sheets  and  table-cloths  should  be  ironed  double,  with  a  large 
iron  pressed  on  them  hard  and  heavily. 

All  coloured  things  must  be  done  with  an  iron  rather  cooler 
than  for  white  clothes,  as  too  great  heat  will  injure  the  colours. 
Iron  them  always  on  the  wrong  side,  wherever  the  manner  in 
which  they  are  made  will  allow  it. 

When  about  to  iron  a  frock  or  gown,  if  you  have  not  ample 
space  on  the  table,  set  a  chair  in  a  convenient  place  to  receive 


IRONING. 


29 


the  sleeves  or  any  part  that  may  hang  down,  so  as  not  to  let 
them  touch  the  floor.  Begin  at  the  body :  next  do  the  sleeves : 
and  then  the  skirt,  commencing  at  the  top  or  upper  part.  A 
skirt-board  is  an  excellent  thing.  It  should  be  made  wide  at 
the  bottom,  narrowing  gradually  towards  the  top.  It  can  be 
obtained  from  the  stores  where  wooden  ware  is  sold ;  or  a  car- 
penter can  be  directed  to  make  one.  Cover  it  first  with  blan- 
keting and  then  with  sheeting,  both  sewed  tightly  and  smoothly 
over  it.  This  board  is  to  slip  into  the  skirt  of  the  dress,  which 
may  thus  be  ironed  without  a  crease.  Puffings  or  gatherings 
in  the  sleeves  should  be  folded  or  creased  in  half,  along  the 
middle,  and  ironed  out  like  a  flounce  or  ruffle. 

In  ironing  petticoats,  double  them  from  the  two  sides,  and 
not  behind  and  before ;  as  that  will  make  a  fold  down  the  front 
which  will  stand  out  awkwardly  when  on. 

When  you  iron  a  shirt,  begin  at  the  bosom;  then  do  the 
collar,  then  the  sleeves,  and  lastly  the  back.  A  small  board, 
on  a  similar  plan  to  that  recomme;ided  for  the  skirts  of  dresses, 
will  be  found  very  useful  to  slip  under  the  bosoms  of  shirts 
when  ironing  them. 

Whenever  you  begin  a  thing,  iron  it  as  fast  as  you  can,  (pro- 
viding always  that  you  do  it  carefully,)  and  avoid  quitting  the 
table  while  the  article  you  are  doing  is  unfinished ;  for  if  you 
leave  it,  there  is  danger  of  its  becoming  so  dry  that  it  will  be 
impossible  afterwards  to  iron  it  smoothly. 

You  may  heat  a  few  irons  in  the  oven  of  a  close  stove ;  on 
a  footman  or  iron  shelf  hooked  on  in  front  of  a  coal-grate  ;  or 
by  setting  them  on  the  bars  of  a  charcoal  furnace. 


FLUTING  WITH  A  PATENT  ITALIAN  IRON.*- 

This  looks  very  well  for  any  frilling  or  ruffling  that  is  not  of 
worked  muslin  or  lace,  and  it  keeps  in  place  much  longer  than 
3* 


ao 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


pleating,  resisting  even  damp  weather.  It  cannot,  however 
be  done  well  if  the  frill  is  more  than  half  a  finger  deep.  A 
patent  iron  costs  but  a  trifle,  and  will  be  found  very  useful  for 
fluting  the  ruffles  of  gingham,  chintz,  or  painted  muslin 
dresses  and  pelerines.  These  irons  are  fixed  to  a  stand,  and 
have  smooth  tubes  diminishing  towards  one  end  which  is  close, 
and  open  at  the  other  to  admit  the  heater.  There  are  always 
two  heaters ;  they  have  long  handles  and  somewhat  resemble 
a  poker.  While  you  are  using  one,  the  other  is  heated  by  put- 
ting the  thick  end  into  the  fire  till  it  becomes  nearly  red-hot. 
It  is  then  slipped  into  the  hollow  tube,  over  which  you  stretch 
the  frill,  a  little  at  a  time,  holding  it  tightly  with  both  hands 
between  the  thumb  and  finger,  and  as  you  go  along  pinching 
it  down  at  the  sides  close  against  the  iron,  taking  care  to  keep 
it  quite  straight.  The  gathered  part  of  the  frill  must  go  upon 
the  point  of  the  iron. 

When  ruflies  are  to  be  fluted,  they  must  first  be  starched  and 
dried,  and  then  sprinkled  very  damp. 

Take  care  to  have  one  of  the  heaters  always  in  the  fire,  so 
that  it  may  be  hot  by  the  time  the  other  has  become  too  cool 
for  use.  If  too  hot,  the  tube  will  scorch  the  frill,  and  burn 
your  fingers. 

TO  IRON  VELVET.— Having  ripped  the  velvet  apart, 
take  each  piece  separately,  and  holding  it  tightly  in  both 
hands,  stretch  it  round  a  warm  stove-pipe,  the  wrong-side  of 
the  velvet  against  the  iron.  This  will  remove  the  creases, 
and  give  the  surface  of  the  material  a  fresh  and  new  appear- 
ance. Velvet  cannot  be  ironed  on  a  table,  as  when  spread  out 
on  a  hard  substance  the  iron  will  not  go  smoothly  over  the 
pile  or  shag. 

Another  way,  is  to  heat  a  smoothing  iron,  and  then  to  cover 


WAaHINO. 


M 


it  with  a  wet  cloth  and  hold  it  under  the  velvet — passing  it  to 
and  fro  beneath.  For  this  process,  the  velvet  must  be  stretched 
over  a  vacant  space  between  two  tables,  and  well  secured  to 
each,  by  weights  or  something  that  will  keep  it  fast.  The  va- 
pour arising  from  the  heated  iron  and  the  wet  cloth,  will  raise 
the  pile  of  the  velvet,  while,  at  the  same  time,  another  person 
brushes  it  up  with  a  whisk. 

Velvet  has  greatly  the  advantage  of  all  other  silk  fabrics  in 
the  facility  with  which  it  can  be  joined,  or  sewed  together 
without  leaving  any  external  appearance  of  the  seam. 

TO  IRON  SILK — Silk  cannot  be  ironed  smoothly  so  as 
to  press  out  all  the  creases,  without  first  sprinkling  it  with 
water  and  rolling  it  up  tightly  in  a  towel — ^letting  it  rest  for  an 
hour  or  two.  If  the  iron  is  the  least  too  hot  it  will  injure 
the  colour,  and  it  should  first  be  tried  on  an  old  piece  of  the 
same  silk. 

Bright  coloured  silks  or  ribbons,  such  as  pinks,  blues,  yel- 
lows, greens,  &c.,  always  change  colour  on  the  application  of 
an  iron.  Blacks,  browns,  olives,  grays,  &c,  generally  look 
very  well  after  ironing. 

Silks  should  always  be  ironed  on  the  wrong  side. 

TO  SHRINK  NEW  FLANNEL.— New  flannel  should 
always  be  shrunk  or  washed  before  it  is  made  up,  that  it  may 
be  cut  out  more  accurately,  and  that  the  grease  which  is  used 
in  manufacturing  it  may  be  extracted.  First,  cut  off  the  list 
along  the  selvage  edges  of  the  whole  piece.  Then  put  it  into 
warm  (but  not  boiling)  water,  without  soap.  Begin  at  one  end 
of  the  piece,  and  rub  it  with  both  hands  till  you  come  to  the 
other  end.  This  is  to  get  out  the  grease,  and  the  blue  with 
which  new  white  flannel  is  always  tinged.    Then  do  the  same 


32 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


through  another  water.  Rinse  it  through  a  clean  lukewarm 
water ;  wring  it  lengthways,  and  stretch  it  well.  In  hanging 
it  out  on  a  line  do  not  suspend  it  in  festoons,  but  spread  it  along 
the  line  straight  and  lengthways.  If  dried  in  festoons,  the 
edges  will  be  in  great  scollops,  making  it  very  difficult  to 
cut  out.  It  must  be  dried  in  the  sun.  When  dry,  let  it  be 
stretched  even,  clapped  with  the  hands,  and  rolled  up  tight  and 
smoothly,  till  wanted. 

ANOTHER  WAY.— If  the  flannel  is  intended  for  petticoats, 
cut  it  at  once  into  the  requisite  number  of  breadths,  as  it  can 
then  be  shrunk  with  much  more  convenience  than  when  in  one 
long  piece.  For  other  flannel  articles  of  dress,  it  is  well,  before 
shrinking,  to  divide  it  into  as  many  straight  pieces  as  the  thing 
to  be  made  will  allow. 

Lay  the  flannel  all  night  in  a  tub  of  cold  soft  water.  In  the 
morning,  pour  off"  the  whole  of  the  water,  and  drain  but  do  not 
wring  the  flannel.  Make  a  light  suds  of  water  quite  warm, 
(but  not  Jiot,)  and  of  white  soap  or  whitish  Castile.  Wash 
the  flannel  thoroughly  through  this  suds,  and  wring  it  out 
as  dry  as  possible.  Then  having  shaken  it,  stretched  it,  and 
folded  it  smoothly  down  on  a  clean  table  to  make  it  straight 
and  even,  hang  it  out  immediately.  When  about  half  dry,  go 
to  it,  stretch,  shake,  and  turn  it.  Take  it  in  while  it  is  still 
damp,  fold  it  smooth,  cover  it  with  a  clean  towel,  and  after  it 
has  lain  half  an  hour,  iron  it  with  a  rather  cool  iron. 

We  consider  this  the  best  way  of  shrinking  new  flannel. 

TO  WASH  FLANNEL.— Flannel  should  always  be 
washed  with  white  soap  :  otherwise,  it  will  neither  look  well 
nor  feel  soft.  The  water  must  be  warm  but  not  boiling,  as  it 
shrinks  flannel  to  scald  it.    Wash  it  in  clean  water,  and 


WASHING. 


33 


entirely  by  itself.  Rub  the  soap  to  a  strong  lather  in  the  water, 
before  the  flannel  is  put  in ;  for  if  the  soap  is  rubbed  on  the 
flannel  itself,  it  will  become  hard  and  stiff.  Wash  it  in  this 
manner  through  two  warm  waters,  with  a  strong  lather  in  each. 
Rinse  it  in  another  warm  water,  with  just  suflicient  soap  in  it 
to  give  the  water  a  slight  whitish  appearance.  To  this  rinsing 
water  you  must  add  a  little  blue  from  the  indigo  bag.  Cold 
rinsing  water  is  found  to  harden  the  flannel.  When  you  have 
rinsed  it  thoroughly,  wring  it  hard,  shake  it  well,  and  spread 
it  out  on  the  clothes-line.  While  drying,  shake,  stretch,  and 
turn  it  several  times.    It  should  dry  slowly. 

Flannel  always  washed  precisely  in  this  manner,  will  look 
white  and  feel  soft  as  long  as  it  lasts,  retaining  a  new  appear- 
ance and  scarcely  shrinking  at  all.  But  if  once  badly  washed 
with  scalding  water,  rubbed  with  brown  soap,  and  rinsed  in 
cold  water,  it  will  never  again  look  well. 

If  you  are  willing  to  take  the  trouble,  flannel  washed  ac- 
cording to  the  above  receipt,  will  look  beautifully  if  put  into  a 
dry  clean  sheet  or  towel  while  it  is  wrung,  and  afterwards 
(while  drying)  held  between  two  persons  and  shook  all  the 
time.  This  may  be  worth  while  for  very  fine  new  flannel,  or 
such  as  is  worn  by  infants.  It  is  often  practised  in  the  south, 
where  servants  are  numerous. 


WOOLLEN  STOCKINGS  ^These  are  to  be  done  as  fast 

as  possible,  and  washed  precisely  in  the  same  manner  as  flannel. 
It  is  best  to  dry  them  on  the  boards  made  for  the  purpose  in 
the  shape  of  legs  and  feet,  over  which  the  stockings  are  to  be 
stretched  to  keep  them  from  shrinking.  The  boards  are  to  be 
hung  up  by  a  string  to  the  clothes  line.  If  you  have  no  boards, 
stretch  and  pull  the  stockings  when  half  dry. 


34 


»  THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


BLACK   WORSTED    STOCKINGS  These  should 

always  be  washed  before  they  are  worn.  Lay  them  all  night 
to  soak  in  cold  water.  Wash  them  next  day  by  themselves, 
through  two  waters,  warm,  but  not  hot,  the  soap  being  previ- 
ously rubbed  into  the  water  so  as  to  form  a  lather  before  the 
stockings  are  put  in ;  and  mixing  with  the  first  water  a  table- 
spoonful  of  gall.  Then  rinse  them,  first  in  lukewarm  water, 
and  then  in  several  different  cold  waters,  till  the  dye  ceases  to 
come  out,  and  the  last  water  is  colourless.  Stretch  them,  and 
hang  them  out  immediately  in  the  air,  to  dry  as  fast  as  possible. 
Then  iron  them  on  the  wrong  side. 

Any  dark-coloured  worsted  stockings  may  be  washed  in  this 
manner.  When  you  hang  them  out,  it  is  well  always  to  stretch 
them  on  drying  boards. 


WOOLLEN  YARN— After  the  yarn  is  spun,  whether 
white,  gray,  or  coloured,  it  should  be  well  washed  to  get  out 
all  the  grease  that  may  remain  in  the  wool.  It  must  be  done 
in  soft  water,  made  warm  but  not  hot ;  allowing  to  each  bucket 
of  water,  a  large  tea-cupful  of  lye.  Use  no  soap ;  but  wash 
the  yarn  through  two  warm  waters  with  lye  in  each.  Next 
rinse  it  through  several  cold  waters,  till  the  last  comes  off  quite 
clean ;  and  then  spread  it  out  to  dry,  as  open  as  possible. 

All  woollen  yarn  should  be  washed  both  before  and  after 
dyeing :  the  first  washing  to  remove  the  grease ;  the  second  to 
prevent  the  colour  from  rubbing  off. 

TO  WASH  BLANKETS— The  best  time  for  washing 
blankets  is  in  the  summer,  when  the  days  are  at  the  longest. 
It  is  well  to  commence  them  early  in  the  morning,  that  they 
may  be  dry  by  evening,  and  they  should  be  done  in  clear 
bright  weather.    Washing  blankets  is  very  laborious  work  for 


WASHING. 


35 


women,  and  in  the  country  they  are  sometimes  done  by  servant 
men.  In  this  case,  the  first  suds  may  be  put  into  a  clean  bar- 
rel, and  when  the  blanket  is  quite  steeped,  the  man  may  beat 
it  with  a  large  wooden  beetle.  Or  if  it  is  in  a  tub,  he  may 
step  in  and  trample  the  blanket  with  his  feet.  This  is  a  rough 
way  but  a  good  one. 

Blankets  should  always  be  washed  one  at  a  time ;  first  in 
a  strong  suds ;  then  in  weaker  suds ;  and  then  a  third  time 
through  another  suds  quite  weak.  Wring  them  slightly :  pull 
them  as  straight  and  even  as  you  can,  and  then  hang  them  up 
in  the  sun  to  drip.  If  not  quite  dry  at  evening,  take  them 
down  from  the  line,  fold  them,  put  them  into  a  large  basket, 
and  next  day  (if  the  weather  is  clear)  hang  them  out  again. 
If  the  day  is  damp  or  cloudy,  dry  them  in  the  house.  Fold 
them  smoothly,  and  put  them  away  in  a  large  chest,  sprink- 
ling tobacco  between  the  folds,  or  laying  bits  of  camphor 
among  them. 

TO  WASH  CLOTH  CLOTHES.— In  economical  fami- 
lies it  is  very  customary  to  have  the  cloth  coats  and  pantaloons 
of  the  gentlemen  converted  into  jackets  and  trowsers  for  little 
boys ;  previous  to  which  it  is  proper  thatthey  should  always 
be  washed.  / 

Brush  them  well  before  washing.  It  is  best  to  rip  out  the 
pockets  of  the  pantaloons,  and  also  the  linings  of  the  waist- 
bands, lest  they  should  communicate  lint  to  the  cloth.  Wash 
them  through  two  warm  lathers  of  brown  soap  (soft  soap  is 
best)  with  a  half  tea-cupful  of  lye  in  the  first  suds.  Do  not 
wring  them ;  but  pull  and  stretch  them  well,  and  roll  them  up 
tight,  and  press  out  the  water  against  the  washing-board,  or 
against  the  side  of  the  tub.  Then  lay  them  (rolled  up)  on  a 
clean  table,  and  press  and  squeeze  out  the  remaininp'  suds 


36 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


setting  a  tub  underneath  to  catch  the  droppings.  Afterwards, 
rinse  them  in  two  light  lathers  (a  little  warm)  rolling  them  up 
and  pressing  out  the  water,  as  before,  after  each  rinsing. 
Wringing  in  the  usual  way  will  cause  them  to  be  shrivelled 
and  streaked.  When  all  the  water  has  been  pressed  out,  stretch 
and  pull  them  well,  and  hang  them  up  by  the  waistband  on  a 
clothes-line.  When  perfectly  dry,  sprinkle  them,  roll  them 
very  tight  in  a  thick  damp  towel,  and  let  them  lie  all  night. 
Iron  them  on  the  wrong  side  till  they  are  perfectly  dry,  other- 
wise they  may  still  shrivel. 

Pantaloons  and  waistcoats  of  light  cassimere  must  be  washed 
in  suds  of  white  soap  without  any  lye ;  and  in  rinsing  them 
the  lathers  should  be  very  light,  the  last  one  scarcely  tinged 
with  soap.  Iron  them  on  the  right  side,  and  place  a  thin  fine 
cloth  between  them  and  the  iron,  which  must  be  rather  cool 
than  hot. 


TO  WASH  A  WOOLLEN  TABLE-COVER.—A  bright 
windy  day  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Having  first  taken  out  all 
the  grease-spots  and  stains,  put  the  table-cover  into  a  tub  witli 
a  clean  suds  of  white  soap  and  clear  water,  warm,  but  not  hot, 
(in  which  has  been  mixed  about  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ox- 
gall,) and  wash  and  squeeze  it  well.  Then  wash  it  through 
a  second  lather  somewhat  weaker,  of  soap,  but  without  any 
gall  in  it.  Afterwards  rinse  it  through  a  light  lukewarm  suds, 
just  tinged  with  soap.  Instead  of  wringing,  (which  will  shrivel 
it,)  press  out  as  much  of  the  water  as  you  can  with  your  hands ; 
then  fold  it  up  in  a  tight  long  fold,  and  roll  and  press  it  hard 
with  both  hands  on  a  clean  ironing  table,  having  set  a  tub  to 
catch  the  water  that  drips  from  it  during  the  process.  Roll  it 
always  from  you,  towards  the  end  of  the  table.  When  the 
water  ceases  to  come  from  it,  shake  and  stretch  it  well ;  and 


WASHING. 


37 


dry  it  as  soon  as  possible;  but  not  by  the  fire.  Go  to  it  fre- 
quently while  drying,  and  stretch  and  shake  it.  While  it  is 
yet  damp,  take  it  in,  spread  it  on  an  ironing  sheet,  and  iron  it 
on  the  wrong  side,  pressing  it  hard. 

If  there  is  grease  on  the  table-cover,  it  is  best,  the  day  before 
washing,  to  cover  all  the  spots  with  scraped  Wilmington  clay 
wet  to  a  stiff  paste  with  a  little  water,  repeating  the  clay  till 
the  grease  comes  out.  Or  you  may  remove  them  with  very 
clear  spirits  of  turpentine,  put  on  with  a  sponge.  To  the  stains, 
if  there  are  any,  you  may  apply  hartshorn  weakened  with  a 
little  water. 


A  WOOLLEN  SHAWL  This  may  be  done  precisely 

according  to  the  above  receipt,  taking  care  to  pull  and  stretch 
the  fringe  well,  while  drying.  After  ironing,  the  appearance 
of  the  shawl  will  be  improved  by  folding  it  smoothly,  and 
pressing  it  for  a  few  days  between  a  bed  and  the  sacking. 

In  buying  a  plaid  or  tartan  sbawl,  avoid  choosing  one  that 
has  any  white  in  it.  Even  the  smallest  portion  of  white  (for 
instance,  two  or  three  threads  in  the  figure)  will,  by  immediately 
showing  the  dust,  give  the  shawl  (though  almost  new)  a  dirty, 
dingy  appearance. 


TO  WASH  COLOURED  DRESSES. —Have  ready 
plenty  of  clean  soft  water.  It  spoils  coloured  dresses  to  wash 
them  in  the  dirty  suds  left  of  white  clothes ;  though  this  is  a 
very  common  practice  with  bad  washers.  The  water  must  be 
warm,  but  by  no  means  hot,  lest  it  injure  the  colours.  Rub 
soap  enough  into  the  water  to  make  a  strong  lather  before  you 
put  in  the  chintz,  (adding  a  table-spoonful  of  ox-gall,)  and  then 
wash  it  well.  For  the  second  water,  put  it  into  another  soap- 
suds, colder  and  weaker,  and  wash  it  through  that.  Then  throw 
4 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


the  dress  into  pure  cold  water,  and  rinse  out  all  the  soap 
Lastly,  put  it  into  a  second  rinsing  water,  with  a  very  little 
blue  from  the  indigo  bag  in  it,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  oil  of  vitriol 
or  a  handful  of  salt  to  set  the  colours.    Wring  it  well. 

Have  ready  a  large  earthen  pan  filled  with  weak  starch  tinged 
with  a  little  blue.  Painted  lawns  or  muslins  will  be  much 
improved  by  mixing  a  little  gum  arable  water  with  the  starch : 
for  instance,  a  table-spoonful.  Put  the  dress  into  it,  and  run 
it  through  the  starch.  Then  squeeze  it  out,  open  it  well,  clap 
it,  and  hang  it  immediately  out  to  dry  in  the  shade ;  taking  the 
sleeves  by  the  cuffs  and  pinning  them  up  to  the  skirt,  so  as  to 
spread  them  wide  and  cause  them  to  dry  the  sooner. 

If  coloured  clothes  continue  wet  too  long,  no  precaution  can 
prevent  the  colours  from  running  into  streaks.  This  will  cer- 
tainly happen  if  they  are  allowed  to  lie  in  the  water.  They 
must  always  be  done  as  fast  as  possible,  till  the  whole  process 
is  completed.  If  the  colours  are  once  injured,  nothing  can  re- 
store them;  but  by  good  management  they  may  always  be 
preserved,  unless  in  coarse  low  priced  calicoes ;  and  many  of 
them  wash  perfectly  well. 

As  soon  as  the  dress  is  quite  dry,  take  it  in ;  but,  unless  it  is 
wanted  immediately,  do  not  sprinkle  it,  lest  in  lying  damp  the 
colours  should  be  impaired.  It  should  not  be  sprinkled  over 
night,  if  not  to  be  ironed  till  next  day.  When  perfectly  dry, 
roll  it  up  in  a  large  clean  towel,  and  put  it  away  by  itself  till 
two  or  three  hours  before  you  iron  it. 

Chintzes,  &c.,  should  always  be  washed  in  fine  weather  : 
but  if  it  is  intensely  cold,  it  is  better  to  dry  them  at  the  fire 
than  to  risk  the  spoiling  of  the  colours  from  their  freezing  in 
the  open  air.  But  it  is  still  better  to  defer  their  washing  till 
the  weather  is  sufficiently  moderate  to  allow  them  to  be  hung 
out  of  doors. 


WASHING. 


39 


Take  care  not  to  use  too  much  oil  of  vitriol,  lest  it  corrode  the 
dress  and  cause  it  to  drop  in  holes.  If  you  can  procure  pyro- 
ligneous  acid  or  vinegar  of  wood,  a  large  spoonful  of  that  may 
be  used  to  set  the  colours  without  any  risk  of  injury. 

In  laying  by  muslin  or  chintz  dresses  till  next  season,  let 
them  be  washed  and  dried,  but  neither  starched  nor  ironed  : 
but  roll  up  each  dress  closely  in  a  linen  towel.  If  put  away 
dirty  or  with  any  starch  in  them,  they  will  tear  or  crack  when 
you  do  them  up  again. 

Bran  water  is  excellent  for  washing  light  calico  dresses. 
Boil  a  suiFiciency  of  wheat  bran  in  a  large  kettle ;  strain  off  the 
water,  and  use  it  for  the  dress,  cooling  it  to  a  lukewarm  heat 
with  a  little  cold  water.  It  will  require  no  soap,  and  will  pre- 
vent the  colours  from  running.  Wash  the  dress  through  two 
bran  waters.    Then  rinse  it  in  cold  water. 

Another  way  of  setting  the  colours  of  a  dress,  is  to  grate 
eight  raw  potatoes  and  mix  them  with  a  gallon  of  cold  water. 
Put  a  portion  of  the  potato  mixture  into  each  of  the  waters 
through  which  you  wash  the  dress. 

Another  way,  (for  a  light  coloured  dress,)  is  to  tie  up  in  two 
muslin  bags  a  half-pint  of  rice,  and  boil  it  in  two  quarts  of 
water  till  perfectly  soft.  Mix  the  rice  water  with  that  which 
you  use  for  the  dress.  Take  no  soap,  but  rub  on  the  rice  in 
the  bags,  using  one  for  the  first,  and  one  for  the  second  water. 


MOURNING  CHINTZ,  OR  VERY  DARK  CALICO.— 
Put  into  a  tub  some  clear  soft  water,  (warm,  but  not  hot,)  and 
mix  with  it  a  table-spoonful  of  ox-gall  to  set  the  colour. 
Then  rub  in  sufficient  soap  to  make  a  strong  lather.  Put  in 
the  dress,  and  having  washed  it  well,  wring  it  out,  and  prepare 
a  second  tub  of  clean  water,  (not  so  warm  as  the  first,)  with 
another  table-spoonful  of  ox-gall  stirred  into  it,  and  a  weaker 


40 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


lather  of  soap.  Wash  the  dress  through  this ;  rinse  it  well 
through  two  cold  waters,  (putting  into  the  last  a  handful  of 
salt,)  and  wring  it  out  immediately.  No  coloured  dress  must 
on  any  account  be  left  lying  in  the  water,  as  it  will  certainly 
cause  the  colours  to  run  into  streaks. 

Having  wrung  the  dress  out  of  the  rinsing  water,  starch  it 
immediately,  and  then  dry  it  in  the  shade.  By  making  the 
starch  with  coffee  instead  of  water,  you  will  prevent  the  whitish 
look  which  is  often  so  disfiguring  to  dark  or  mourning  chintzes, 
after  they  are  washed.  You  may  use  for  this  purpose  coffee 
that  has  been  left  at  breakfast.  Strain  the  coffee,  and  mix  the 
starch  with  it  in  the  usual  manner,  pressing  out  all  the  lumps 
with  the  back  of  the  spoon,  and  making  it  very  smooth.  Allow 
about  a  table-spoonful  of  raw  starch  to  a  pint  of  liquid  coffee. 
Boil  it  well,  and  to  prevent  stickiness,  stir  it  while  boiling  with 
the  end  of  a  spermaceti  candle ;  or,  what  is  still  better,  boil 
with  it  a  lump  of  spermaceti  (about  the  size  of  a  small  chesnut) 
broken  off  from  the  bottom  of  a  candle. 

When  the  starch  has  boiled,  put  it  to  cool  in  a  large  deep 
earthen  pan,  and  pass  the  dress  through  it ;  seeing  that  every 
part  imbibes  the  starch  thoroughly.  Then  squeeze  out  the 
dress,  open  it  well,  clap  it,  and  hang  it  to  dry  in  the  shade. 
When  dry,  roll  it  up  tightly ;  but  do  not  sprinkle  it,  unless  you 
are  going  to  iron  it  in  two  or  three  hours,  as  allowing  it  to 
remain  damp  too  long  may  cause  the  colours  to  spread. 

It  is  well  not  to  wash  a. coloured  dress  except  on  a  fine  day, 
when  it  can  be  hung  out  and  dried  at  once.  But  if  it  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  wash  one  in  extremely  cold  weather,  it  is 
better  to  dry  it  by  the  fire  than  to  hang  it  out  of  doors,  as  freez- 
ing will  certainly  fade  the  colours. 

Coloured  things  should  on  no  consideration  be  boiled,  scalded, 


WASHING. 


41 


or  put  into  liot  water :  neither,  as  we  have  said,  should  they  be 
allowed  to  remain  long  in  any  water. 

A  tea-spoonful  of  oil  of  vitriol,  or  a  table-spoonful  of  pyro- 
ligneous  acid,  (vinegar  of  wood,)  or  a  handful  of  salt  mixed 
in  the  last  rinsing  water,  will  assist  greatly  in  setting  the 
colour. 

Another  way  (and  a  very  good  one)  of  stiffening  a  dark 
chintz,  is  to  use  glue  instead  of  starch ;  allowing  a  piece  of 
glue  about  as  large  as  the  pa|m  of  your  hand,  to  three  quarts 
or  a  gallon  of  soft  water,  according  to  the  degree  of  stiffness 
you  desire.  Having  boiled  the  glue  in  the  water,  till  it  is  en- 
tirely dissolved,  let  it  become  lukewarm,  and  then  pass  the 
dress  through  it,  squeezing  it  well.  Then  dry  it  as  fast  as 
possible ;  and  when  dry,  roll  it  up  tightly,  but  do  not  sprinkle 
it,  unless  you  intend  to  iron  it  in  two  or  three  hours. 

In  ironing  a  chintz  dress,  do  the  skirt  on  the  wrong  side,  and 
as  much  of  the  sleeves  as  you  can  conveniently.  The  body 
and  some  parts  of  the  sleeves  cannot  be  ironed  otherwise  than 
on  the  right  side;  but,  to  prevent  their  looking  glazy,  spread  a 
thin  white  handkerchief  smoothly  and  evenly  between  them 
and  the  iron,  changing  its  place  as  you  proceed. 

A  MERINO  DRESS  OR  A  MOUSSELINE  DE  LAINE. 
— ^Take  the  dress  entirely  apart,  if  there  are  any  pleats  in  it; 
as  nothing  that  is  made  with  pleats  can  either  be  washed  or 
ironed  to  look  well.  Lest  any  of  them  should  be  lost,  tack  all 
the  small  pieces  together  with  a  needle  and  thread.  Shake  and 
brush  the  dress  to  remove  whatever  dust  may  have  lodged 
within  the  pleats  or  gathers.  Make  a  strong  lather  with  white 
soap  and  soft  water,  (warm,  but  not  hot,)  and  stir  into  it  a  large 
table-spoonful  of  ox-gall.  Wash  the  merino  well  through  this, 
and  then  wring  it  out.  Have  ready  a  second  and  much  lighter 
4* 


42 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


suds,  made  with  very  little  soap,  and  water  not  more  than 
lukewarm ;  adding  a  handful  of  salt,  or  a  small  tea-spoonful 
of  oil  of  vitriol.  If  the  colour  of  the  dress  is  light,  or  bright, 
or  very  delicate,  the  vitriol  will  be  the  best.  Salt  will  answer 
well  enough  for  a  dark  or  plain  coloured  merino.  Having 
washed  the  dress  well  through  the  second  suds,  wring  it 
very  dry,  shake  it  out,  and  pull  and  stretch  it  straight  and 
even.  It  must  not  be  rinsed.  Hang  it'  out  immediately  to 
dry,  pinning  all  the  pieces  carefully  to  the  line.  Before  it  is 
quite  dry,  (when  you  find  it  what  is  called  ironing-damp,) 
take  it  in,  fold  it  smoothly  without  sprinkling,  and  let  it  rest 
for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  wrapped  in  a  clean  towel. 
Then  have  your  irons  ready,  and  iron  it  on  the  wrong  side,  or 
the  side  that  is  to  be  the  wrong  one  when  the  dress  is  put 
together  again. 

h  Wash  a  chaly  in  the  same  manner;  and  a  bombazine  also, 
except  that  for  a  black  bombazine  it  is  best  to  put  a  tea-cupful 
of  lye  in  the  first  suds  rather  than  to  use  ox-gall. 

Dresses  that  have  any  wool  or  worsted  should  not  be  under- 
taken, unless  they  can  be  washed  and  ironed  at  once ;  as  re- 
maining damp  will  shrink  and  shrivel  them. 

Unless  the  wadding  of  a  merino  cloak  or  pelisse  has  been 
basted  between  two  linings,  it  will  be  found  scarcely  possible 
(even  with  washing)  to  remove  the  downy  particles  of  cotton, 
that  will  adhere  to  the  inside  when  the  merino  is  taken  apart 
to  be  turned.  Therefore,  we  recommend  always  a  double 
lining;  the  inner  one  of  something  very  thin  and  slight. 


A  PAINTED  MUSLIN  DRESS.— Make  a  lather  of  white 
soap  and  lukewarm  water,  and  wash  the  dress  carefully  through 
It.  Then  rinse  it  through  two  cold  waters.   You  may  put  into 


WASHIN0. 


43 


the  last  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  oil  of  vitriol  to  set  the  colours, 
or  a  table-spoonful  of  pyroligneous  acid ;  (vinegar  of  wood.) 

Spread  the  dress  well  out,  and  hang  it  immediately  to  dry, 
but  not  in  the  sun. 

For  the  stiffening,  pick  and  wash  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rice, 
and  boil  it  an  hour  in  a  gallon  of  clear  soft  water.  Then  strain 
the  rice-water  into  a  clean  bucket  or  a  deep  earthen  pan.  Pass 
the  dress  well  through  the  rice-water,  and  then  squeeze  it  as 
dry  as  you  can.  Do  not  clap  it,  but  open  and  stretch  it  out  in 
every  part  as  well  as  possible. 

Fix  up  two  lines,  at  a  convenient  distance  from  each  other, 
(they  may  be  of  stout  twine  or  new  tape,)  and  pin  the  dress 
across  both  lines,  so  that  it  may  hang  spread  open  between 
them.  While  drying,  go  to  it  frequently,  pull  it  both  ways, 
and  stretch  it  even  all  over. 

Having  pulled  and  stretched  it  thoroughly,  sprinkle  it 
slightly,  and  roll  it  up  in  a  clean  towel.  Do  not  let  it  remain 
longer  than  an  hour  without  ironing. 

If  there  is  any  thing  about  it  that  is  to  puff  out,  double  the 
full  part  along  the  middle,  and  iron  it  as  you  would  a  gathered 
ruffle. 


A  BOOK  MUSLIN  DRESS  A  dress  of  book  muslin, 

if  always  well  done  up,  will  not  require  frequent  washing.  In 
buying  a  new  one,  avoid  getting  such  muslin  as  has  a  blueish 
cast.  It  is  very  unbecoming  to  every  complexion ;  and  never 
looks  well  till  after  it  has  been  washed.  When  a  good  white, 
it  is  best  to  wear  it  a  few  times  before  it  is  washed.  They 
require  much  care  in  doing  up. 

Make  a  strong  suds  with  white  soap  and  warm  water.  Put 
in  the  dress,  and  wash  it  well ;  squeezing  and  pressing  rather 
than  rubbing  it ;  as  book  muslin  tears  easily,  and,  without  great 


44 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


care,  will  not  last  long.  Wash  it  through  a  second  suds,  and 
then  pass  it  through  two  rinsing  waters ;  adding  a  very  little 
blue  to  the  last.  Then  open  out  the  dress;  and,  while  wet, 
run  it  through  a  thin  starch,  diluted  with  water  either  warm  or 
cold.  Stretch  it,  and  hang  it  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Afterwards, 
sprinkle  it  and  roll  it  up  in  a  clean  fine  towel ;  letting  it  lie  for 
half  an  hour  or  more.  Then  open  it  out,  stretch  it  even,  and 
clap  it  in  ypur  hands  till  clear  all  over.  Have  irons  ready,  and 
iron  it  before  it  is  too  dry,  on  the  wrong  side,  whenever  prac- 
ticable. Take  care  that  the  irons  are  not  too  hot,  as  it  will 
scorch  easily.  When  done,  do  not  fold  the  dress,  but  hang  it 
up  in  a  commode  or  wardrobe. 

In  ironing,  be  very  careful  to  get  the  hem  even.  Many  per- 
sons, previous  to  having  them  washed,  rip  out  the  hems  of  their 
thin  muslin  dresses,  afterwards  running  them  over  again.  This 
is  a  good  plan,  if  you  are  willing  to  take  the  trouble;  which, 
however,  is  not  much. 


GOLD  OR  SILVER  MUSLIN.-These  muslins  should 
not  be  worn  till  they  are  much  soiled,  as  they  must  be  washed 
very  delicately,  first  taking  them  apart.  Make  a  strong  lather 
of  filtered  or  very  clear  soft  water,  and  fine  white  soap  in  which 
there  must  be  no  perfume.  The  water  should  be  warm,  but  not 
hot.  Then  with  your  hands  turn  the  muslin  about  in  it  till  it 
is  thoroughly  saturated  with  the  suds.  Squeeze  it  well,  but  do 
not  wring  it.  Repeat  this  through  two  other  lathers,  each  a 
little  weaker  and  cooler.  Then  rinse  it  lightly  through  two 
waters ;  squeeze  it,  shake  it  out,  open  it  well,  and  hang  it  in 
the  sun  to  dry  as  fast  as  possible.  When  you  iron  it,  have  a 
linen  cloth  over  the  blanket;  take  a  rather  cool  iron,  and  go 
over  it  carefully  on  the  wrong  side ;  yet  unless  the  sprigs  of 
gold  are  very  small,  it  is  best  not  to  iron  it  at  all,  but  to  stretch 


WASHING 


4S 


it  well  in  every  part.  You  may  brighten  each  sprig  by  rubbing 
every  one  separately  with  a  bit  of  white  or  crimson  velvet  of 
the  best  quality.  Unless  the  velvet  is  very  good,  and  dyed 
in  grain,  the  colour  may  come  off  and  leave  a  stain  around  each 
sprig.  The  trouble  of  burnishing  the  gold  in  this  manner,  will 
be  repaid  by  its  increased  brightness. 

A  dress  of  gold  or  silver  muslin  should  be  kept  carefully 
folded  and  pinned  up  in  a  linen  cloth. 

As  in  the  stores  you  can  buy  only  what  is  called  a  dress 
pattern,  consisting  of  a  limited  number  of  yards,  it  is  well 
when  you  purchase  one  of  these  muslins,  to  send  at  once  a 
sample  to  India,  with  an  order  for  a  sufficient  quantity  for 
a  new  body  and  sleeves  when  the  make  of  the  first  is  no  longer 
fashionable. 

Another  way  of  brightening  the  flowers  of  gold  or  silver 
muslin,  is  to  rub  every  sprig  with  a  bit  of  fine  white  flannel 
slightly  wet  with  warm  spirits  of  wine,  replacing  the  bit  of 
flannel  very  frequently  by  a  clean  one. 

TO  CLEAN  GOLD  LACE.— Burn  some  roche  alum; 
then  powder  it  very  fine  and  sift  it.  Dip  a  clean  soft  brush 
into  the  powdered  alum,  and  rub  the  gold  lace  with  it.  After- 
wards wipe  it  with  a  clean  soft  flannel.  Gold  embroidery  may 
be  brightened  in  the  same  manner. 

TO  WASH  BLACK  SILK.— To  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
ox-gall  add  enough  of  boiling  water  to  make  it  warm.  Spread 
out  the  silk  on  a  large  kitchen  table,  and  dipping  a  clean  sponge 
in  the  gall,  go  over  the  whole  of  the  article  with  it,  on  both 
sides.  Then  squeeze  it  well  out,  and  repeat  the  application  of 
the  sponge,  having  added  more  boiling  water  to  the  gall  so  as 
to  heat  it  again.   Rinse  the  silk  in  clear  cold  water,  and  repeat 


46 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


the  rinsing  (changing  the  water  each  time)  till  the  last  water 
appears  perfectly  clean.  Then  stretch  it,  and  dry  it  quickly  in 
the  air,  and  afterwards  pin  it  out  on  a  table. 

To  give  it  the  consistence  of  new  silk,  dissolve  in  boiling 
water  a  little  glue  or  gum  arable ;  mix  it  with  sufficient  cold 
water,  and  sponge  the  dress  all  over  with  it.  This  must  be 
done  on  the  wrong  side.  Then  dry  it,  sprinkle  it  slightly,  and 
roll  it  up  tightly  in  a  towel :  let  it  lie  a  few  hours,  and  then  iron 
it,  taking  care  that  the  iron  is  not  too  hot,  as  silk  scorches  very 
easily. 

You  may  perfume  the  last  application  of  ox-gall  by  mixing 
with  it  a  little  musk. 

Unless  the  silk  is  of  very  good  quality,  it  will  not  be  worth 
while  to  take  the  trouble  of  washing  it. 

Previous  to  washing  a  black  silk  dress,  rip  the  skirt  from 
the  body,  and  the  sleeves  from  the  arm  holes. 

A  bombazine  dress  may  be  washed  in  the  same  manner,  but 
after  washing,  it  must  not  be  stiffened. 


BISHOP'S  LAWN.— Put  it  into  a  lather  of  hot  soap-suds, 
(white  Castile  soap  is  best,)  and  wash  it  through  that  and  a 
second  water  of  the  same.  Then  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
When  you  take  it  out  of  the  boil,  rinse  it  in  warm  water,  and 
then  throw  it  into  cold  water  and  rinse  it.  Afterwards  put  it 
into  another  rinsing  water,  very  slightly  tinged  with  blue.  Have 
ready  some  thin  starch,  in  which  mix  a  little  gum  arable  water, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  table-spoonful  of  gum  water  to  a  pint  of 
starch.  The  gum  arable  used  for  this  purpose  should  be  of  the 
whitest  and  finest  kind,  and  pulverized  before  putting  it  into  the 
water,  which  should  be  warm.  It  must  be  prepared  the  day 
before ;  or,  rather,  it  is  well  to  keep  a  bottle  of  gum  arable  water 
always  in  the  house,  as  it  is  useful  for  many  purposes. 


WASHING. 


4*7 


Put  the  starch  into  a  large  earthen  pan,  and  pass  the  lawn 
through  it,  squeezing  it  well.  Then  stretch,  clap,  dry,  and  iron 
it.    It  will  have  the  appearance  of  new  lawn. 

Fine  lawn  or  cambric  handkerchiefs  should  be  washed  in  this 
manner,  making  the  starch  very  weak. 


FINE  BROWN  LINEN  Brown  French  linen  of  very 

fine  quality,  is  frequently  used  for  ladies'  travelling  dresses  in 
the  summer,  and  for  gentlemen's  round  jackets.  To  prevent  it 
from  fading,  it  should  be  washed  with  hay,  as  should  also 
brown  holland  aprons  and  petticoats.  Two  large  handfuls  of 
hay  will  suffice  for  one  dress.  Wash  the  dress  first  in  cold 
water,  without  any  soap  ;  having  first  boiled  the  hay  in  suffi- 
cient water  to  cover  it  well.  When  the  hay  has  boiled  hard 
for  half  an  hour,  strain  off  the  water,  and  dilute  it  with  cold 
water,  till  it  becomes  nearly  the  colour  of  new  brown  linen. 
Then  wash  the  dress  in  it,  still  without  soap,  having  saved 
some  of  the  hay-water  for  rinsing.  Rinse  it  through  two  hay- 
waters,  and  in  the  last  put  a  table-spoonful  of  pyroligneous 
acid,  or  vinegar  of  wood,  (to  be  obtained  at  the  druggist's,)  or 
a  small  tea-spoonful  of  oil  of  vitriol.  Hang  the  dress  out  im- 
mediately to  dry  in  the  shade ;  and  when  dry,  do  not  sprinkle 
it,  unless  you  intend  to  iron  it  the  same  day. 

Provided  that  the  ground  is  tea-coloured,  olive,  drab,  or  pale 
brown,  any  chintz  or  painted  muslin  may  be  washed  to  great 
advantage  with  hay.  If  there  is  white  in  the  figure,  the  hay- 
water  should  be  more  diluted,  and  the  rinsing-water  should 
have  none  of  the  hay. 

Hay-water  is  much  employed  by  the  French  laundresses. 

The  fine  brown  grass-cloth  used  for  travelling  dresses  and 
bonnets,  should  be  washed  with  hay ;  and  squeezed  rather  than 
rubbed. 


48  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

/ 

WASHING  A  GINGHAM  BONNET.— A  drawn  or 
sherred  gingham  bonnet  majTbe  washed  without  opening  the 
casings  or  taking  out  the  cane  or  whalebone ;  but  it  is  best  to 
rip  off  the  frilling,  bows,  and  strings,  and  wash  and  iron  them 
in  the  usual  way.  The  bonnet,  divested  of  its  trimming, 
should  then  be  placed  on  a  wooden  bonnet-block,  (if  you  have 
one,)  otherwise  stretch  the  crown  on  the  bottom  of  an  inverted 
stone  jar.  Then  make  a  lather  of  white  soap  and  lukewarm 
water,  (adding  a  tea-spoonful  of  gall  to  set  the  colours,)  and 
with  a  clean  brush  (a  new  tooth-brush  will  do)  go  carefully 
over  the  whole  of  the  bonnet,  washing  well  in  between  the 
cases.  Repeat  this  with  a  second  clean  suds,  but  without  gall, 
and  then  rinse  it  off  with  clear  cold  water  put  on  with  a  clean 
sponge  or  a  soft  white  rag.  The  bonnet  must  then  be  immedi- 
ately set  out  in  the  air,  and  dried  upon  the  block  or  jar ;  going 
to  it  occasionally  and  stretching  and  pulling  the  brim  to  make 
it  dry,  straight,  and  even.  Then  having  washed,  starched,  and 
ironed  the  trimmings,  put  them  again  on  the  bonnet. 

A  white  cambric  muslin  bonnet  may  be  washed  in  the  same 
manner. 


NANKEEN. — To  prevent  nankeen  from  fading,  the  colour 
should  be  set  when  it  is  quite  new,  in  the  piece,  before  it  is 
made  up.  To  do  this,  put  some  good  oak  or  hickory  ashes 
into  a  clean  barrel  or  bucket,  and  pour  on  sufficient  soft  water 
to  make  a  moderately  strong  lye.  Then  dra\y  or  strain  it  off, 
very  clear,  into  a  tub.  Lay  the  piece  of  nankeen  in  the  tub  of 
lye,  and  let  it  remain  all  night.  Next  day  wring  it  out,  (with- 
out rinsing,)  and  dry  it  in  the  shade.  When  dry,  sprinkle  it, 
roll  it  up,  and  iron  it.  We  have  seen  nankeen  thus  soaked  in 
lye  while  quite  new,  retaining  its  full  colour  till  the  article 
made  of  it  was  worn  out. 


WASHING. 


In  washing  nankeen,  after  it  has  been  worn,  take  care  not  to 
have  the  water  too  hot.  Use  soft  soap  for  it,  in  preference  to 
hard.  Wash  it  through  two  lathers,  putting  a  tea-cifpful  of 
lye  into  the  first.  Rinse  it  through  two  waters  with  a  slight 
tinge  of  soap  in  each.    Iron  it  on  the  wrong  side. 

FURNITURE  CHINTZ  ^The  articles  of  furniture  chintz 

that  you  intend  washing,  must  be  taken  apart,  and  the  dust 
well  shaken  out  of  each  piece. 

Boil  some  rice  (in  the  proportion  of  two  pounds  of  rice  to 
two  gallons  of  water)  till  quite  soft.  Strain  it  from  the  kettle 
into  a  tub,  and  let  it  stand  till  about  the  warmth  generally  used 
for  coloured  cottons.  Then  put  in  the  chintz  and  wash  it  till 
all  the  dirt  appears  to  be  out,  using  instead  of  soap  some  of 
the  boiled  rice  tied  up  in  a  muslin  bag. 

In  the  mean  time,  have  boiling  the  same  quantity  of  rice  and 
water  as  before ;  but  when  it  is  done,  strain  it,  and  having  tied 
the  rice  in  a  bag,  put  it  in  a  tub  of  warm  clear  water.  Wash 
the  chintz  in  this  till  you  are  sure  of  its  being  perfectly  clean, 
still  using  the  rice  as  soap.  Afterwards,  rinse  it  in  the  water 
in  which  you  boiled  the  last  rice,  (and  which  should  be  saved 
in  a  tub  for  the  purpose,)  mixing  with  the  water  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  pyroligneous  acid.  Stretch  it  even,  and  hang  it  on  the 
lines  to  dry.  After  it  is  dry,  stretch  and  fold  it,  spread  it  on 
an  ironing-board,  but  instead  of  an  iron,  rub  it  all  over  on  the 
right  side  with  a  smooth  stone.  ' 

It  is  still  better  to  have  it  mangled  in  a  machine,  or 
calendered.  The  greater  the  gloss,  the  longer  it  will  keep  clean. 

Chintz  bed-spreads  should  be  washed  in  this  manner. 


SMALL  MUSLINS. — Soap  the  muslins  the  night  before, 
and  put  them  to  soak  in  cold  water.    Next  morning  wash  them 
5 


50 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


through  two  waters  tolerably  warm,  using  soap  to  each,  and 
squeezing  and  pressing  rather  than  rubbing  them.  After- 
wards squeeze  them  immediately  through  a  suds,  as  hot  as  you 
can  bear  your  hand  in,  and  let  them  lie  about  five  minutes  in  the 
hot  lather.  Then  rinse  them ;  first  through  a  moderately  warm 
water,  and  then  through  a  lukewarm  water  into  which  you 
have  infused  a  very  little  blue  from  the  indigo  bag.  The  tinge 
must  be  very  slight,  as  too  much  blue  will  give  them  a  very 
ungenteel  look.  Squeeze  them  well  out  of  the  last  water,  and 
spread  them  to  dry. 

Have  ready  the  starch,  which  should  be  made  in  the  propor- 
tion of  two  table-spoonfuls  of  dry  starch  for  about  three  capes 
and  half  a  dozen  single  collars.  The  starch  should  be  of  the 
very  best  quality.  Mix  it  in  a  bowl  with  sufficient  cold  water 
to  cover  the  starch,  and  with  the  back  of  the  spoon  press  out 
all  the  lumps  so  as  to  make  the  starch  perfectly  smooth.  Pour 
the  mljtture  into  a  pint  or  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water, 
in  a  clean  skillet  or  tin  saucepan.  Boil  it  well  for  half  an 
hour :  and  when  half-boiled,  stir  it  a  moment  with  the  end  of  a 
new  spermaceti  candle.  Then  strain  it  into  a  broad  pan,  and 
press  into  it  the  blue  bag,  just  sufficiently  to  give  it  a  slight  tinge. 

When  the  muslins  are  dry,  throw  them  into  the  starch, 
squeeze  them  out,  dry  them  a  little,  and  clap  them  between  the 
palms  of  your  hands  (a  small  portion  at  a  time)  till  they  are 
quite  clear.  It  is  best  to  clap  them  near  an  open  window  in 
summer,  and  in  winter  by  the  fire.  Then  pull  them  straight 
and  even. 

When  they  are  not  quite  dry,  but  just  damp  enougK  to  iron, 
have  the  irons  ready,  and  lay  a  fine  flannel  (a  petticoat  for  in- 
stance) on  the  ironing  blanket.  Spread  the  cape  or  collar  upon 
it,  covering  it  smoothly  with  a  piece  of  old  thin  muslin,  so  that 
the  iron  may  not  exactly  touch  the  article. 


WASHING. 


51 


When  you  take  the  iron  from  the  fire,  ruh  it  with  a  piece  of 
bees-wax,  and  then  wipe  it  quickly ;  and  before  you  use  it  for 
the  muslin,  smooth  over  a  coarse  towel  with  it. 

Then  iron  the  cape  or  collar  carefully  on  the  wrong  side, 
pressing  out  the  scallops  one  by  one. 

If  the  article  has  no  ornamental  needle-work,  but  merely  a 
plain  hem  or  ruffle,  iron  it  on  the  right  side. 

Clear-starching  should  always  be  done  on  a  bright  dry  day. 
If  the  weather  is  damp  and  gloomy,  the  things  will  be  too 
limber  and  of  a  bad  colour. 

The  thicker  the  muslin,  the  less  clapping  will  be  necessary. 

Collars  or  capes  of  bobbinet  may  be  done  up  in  this  manner, 
also  gauze  or  crepe-lisse. 

No  articles  of  muslin  or  lace  should  (when  out  of  use)  be 
put  away  with  starch  in  them.  For  instance,  when  laid  aside 
during  the  term  of  mourning,  they  should  be  soaked  and 
washed  clean ;  then  well  rinsed  in  plain  cold  water,  stretched 
even,  dried,  and  rolled  up,  but  not  ironed.  Afterwards,  put 
them  into  an  old  pillow-case  or  something  of  the  sort,  or  wrap 
them  closely  in  a  fine  towel,  keeping  them  in  a  safe  place  till 
they  are  wanted  again  for  use.  They  will  then  require  wash- 
ing in  warm  water,  and  whitening  on  the  grass.  After  they 
are  well  bleached,  proceed  to  do  them  up  as  usual. 

If  put  away  with  starch  in  them,  they  will  crack  and  split 
to  pieces,  when  you  go  to  prepare  them  again  for  wearing. 

BOBBINET  OR  COTTON  LACE— Having  ripped  off 
the  lace,  roll  it  round  a  black  bottle  covered  with  white  linen 
or  muslin,  sewed  on  smoothly.  Then  fill  the  bottle  with 
water ;  cork  it  tightly,  and  suspend  it  with  a  string  in  a  kettle 
of  Cold  soap-suds,  made  with  Castile  soap.  Boil  it  mode- 
rately till  the  lace  looks  perfectly  white,  which  it  will  in  about 


53  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  drain  off  the  suds,  and  set  the  bot- 
tle in  the  sun,  till  the  lace  dries  on  it. 

When  dry,  have  ready  in  a  basin  some  very  weak  gum 
arable  water,  and  pass  the  lace  through  it,  squeezing  it  well. 
Then  stretch  it  out  evenly,  and  clap  it  in  your  hands  to 
clear  it  while  drying.  Lay  it  on  an  ironing-sheet,  and  iron  it 
on  the  wrong  side  with  rather  a  cool  iron,  taking  care  to  press 
out  all  the  scollops.  When  you  put  it  away,  wind  it  round  a 
ribbon  block,  which  should  be  a  little  wider  than  the  lace. 

Bobbinet  quilling  may  be  done  up  in  the  same  manner. 
Care'  should  be  taken  to  have  it  no  stiffer  than  when  new. 

Instead  of  quilling  bobbinet  lace,  it  will  save  much  trouble 
to  sew  it  on  permanently,  and  flute  it  over  a  patent  Italian  iron. 
It  should  be  gathered  full,  allowing  thrice  the  quantity  that 
would  be  sufficient  to  go  round  the  collar  if  sewed  on  plain. 


THREAD  LACE. — Having  ripped  the  lace  from  the  article 
to  which  it  was  attached,  and  carefully  picked  out  the  loose 
bits  of  thread,  roll  the  lace  very  smoothly  and  securely  round 
a  clean  black  bottle,  which  has  been  covered  with  old  white 
linen  sewed  on  tightly.  Tack  each  end  of  the  lace  with  a 
needle  and  thread,  to  keep  it  smooth ;  and  in  wrapping  it  round 
the  bottle,  take  care  not  to  crumple  or  fold  in  any  of  the 
scollops  or  pearlings.  Pour  into  a  saucer  some  of  the  best 
sweet  oil,  and  with  a  clean  bit  of  sponge  wet  with  it  the  lace 
thoroughly,  after  it  is  on  the  bottle.  The  oil  must  penetrate  to 
the  inmost  folds  of  the  lace. 

Have  ready  in  a  wash-kettle,  a  strong  cold  lather  made  of 
very  clear  water  and  white  Castile  soap.  Having  filled  the 
bottle  with  cold  water  to  keep  it  from  bursting,  and  corked  it 
well,  stand  it  upright  in  the  suds,  and  tie  a  string  round  the 
neck,  and  secure  it  to  the  ears  or  handle  of  the  kettle,  to  pre- 

\ 


WASHING. 


53 


vent  its  knocking  about  and  breaking  while  over  the  fire.  Let 
it  boil  in  the  suds  for  an  hour  or  more,  or  till  the  lace  is  clean 
and  white  all  through.  Then  take  it  out,  drain  off  the  suds, 
and  stand  the  bottle  in  the  sun,  for  the  lace  to  dry  on  it.  When 
it  is  quite  dry,  remove  the  lace  from  the  bottle,  and  roll  it  round 
a  wide  ribbon-block,  if  you  have  one ;  otherwise  lay  it  in  long 
folds,  place  it  within  a  sheet  of  smooth  white  paper,  and  press 
it  in  a  large  book  for  a  day  or  two. 

By  this  simple  process,  in  which  there  is  neither  rinsing, 
starching,  nor  ironing,  the  lace  will  acquire  the  same  consist- 
ence, transparency,  and  tint  that  it  had  when  new,  and  the 
scollops  at  the  edge  will  come  out  perfectly  even.  We  can 
safely  recommend  this  as  the  best  possible  method  of  doing  up 
thread  lace,  and  as  the  only  one  which  gives  it  a  truly  new 
appearance. 

It  is  well  not  to  put  the  oil  on  the  lace  till  the  soap-suds  is 
ready  in  the  kettle,  so  that  the  bottle  may  go  in  immediately ; 
as,  if  allowed  to  stand,  much  of  the  oil  will  run  down  and 
drip  off. 

If  you  wish  the  lace  to  look  of  a  dead  white,  and  not  to  have 
the  peculiar  appearance  of  that  which  has  never  been  washed 
at  all,  omit  the  sweet  oil ;  but  wind  it  on  a  bottle,  boil  it  in 
iioap-suds,  and  dry  it  in  the  sun  without  rinsing,  just  as  directed 
above.  When  dry,  take  it  off  the  bottle  and  roll  it  on  a  ribbon- 
block  till  you  want  to  use  it. 


ANOTHER  WAY  TO  W^ASH  LACE.— Get  a  black 
bottle :  a  square  one  is  best;  for  instance,  the  kind  that  is  used 
for  sarsaparilla.  Sew  all  over  it  a  piece  of  thick  linen  or  cotton 
rag.  Then  wind  the  lace  smoothly  round  the  bottle,  securing 
the  ends,  and  taking  care  that  no  part  of  the  edge  is  crumpled 
or  turned  inward.  Next,  sew  another  piece  of  rag  all  over  the 
5* 


54 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


outside,  so  as  entirely  to  cover  the  lace.  Make  a  strong  lather 
of  white  soap,  and  cold  clear  soft  water,  (filtered  water  is  best,) 
and  put  it  into  a  large  stone  jar  or  crock,  standing  the  bottle 
upright  in  the  suds.  Place  the  crock  on  a  hot  stove  or  over  a 
charcoal  furnace,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  or  more.  Then  take 
out  the  bottle,  throw  away  the  suds,  wash  the  jar,  and  fill  it 
with  clear  cold  water  in  which  you  have  mixed  a  table  spoon- 
ful of  starch.  Replace  the  bottle,  and  let  it  again  come  to  a 
boil.  When  you  take  out  the  bottle,  remove  the  outside  cover- 
ing, and  let  the  lace  dry  on  the  under  linen,  placing  it  in  the 
sun.  When  dry,  take  it  off  the  bottle,  and  smooth  it  over  with 
a  cool  iron,  carefully  pressing  out  each  scollop  of  the  edge. 

Some  persons  take  the  trouble  to  insert  a  little  minikin  pin 
in  every  loop  or  pearling  along  the  extreme  edge  of  the  lace, 
fastening  it  to  dry  on  a  pillow.  This  is  to  keep  the  loops  open, 
so  that  the  edge  may  look  as  much  as  possible  like  new  lace 
that  has  never  been  washed. 

It  is  well  to  keep  two  bottles  ready  covered  with  linen,  for 
the  purpose  of  washing  lace ;  a  large  bottle  for  bro^d  lace,  and 
a  small  one  for  narrow. 


WHITE  SILK  LACE  OR  BLOND.— Having  sewed  on 
a  black  bottle  a  covering  of  clean  linen  or  thick  muslin,  wind 
the  blond  round  it,  (securing  the  ends  with  a  needle  and  thread,) 
not  leaving  the  edge  outward,  but  covering  it  as  you  proceed. 
Then  set  the  bottle  upright  in  a  strong  cold  lather  of  white 
soap  and  very  clear  soft  water,  and  set  it  in  the  sun,  having 
gently  with  your  hand  rubbed  the  suds  up  and  down  on  the 
lace.  Keep  it  in  the  sun  every  day  for  a  week,  changing  it 
daily  into  a  fresh  lather,  and  always  rubbing  it  slightly,  when 
you  renew  the  suds.  At  the  end  of  the  week,  take  the  blond 
off  the  bottle,  and  (without  rinsing)  pin  it  backward  and  for- 


WASHING. 


55 


ward  on  a  large  pillow  covered  with  a  clean  case  put  on  tightly. 
Every  scollop  of  the  blond  must  have  a  separate  pin ;  or  more, 
if  the  scollops  are  not  very  small.  The  plain  edge  must  be 
pinned  down  also,  so  as  to  make  it  straight  and  even.  The 
pins  should  be  of  the  smallest  size.  Let  the  blond  dry  on  the 
pillow.  When  quite  dry,  take  it  off,  but  do  not  starch,  iron, 
or  press  it.  Lay  it  in  long  loose  folds,  and  put  it  away  in  a 
pasteboard  box. 

Thread  lace  may  be  washed  in  the  same  manner. 

In  France  they  have  for  the  purpose  of  pinning  out  and  dry- 
ing lace,  large  pillows  or  cushions  set  in  wooden  frames,  and 
standing  on  feet.  Some  American  ladies  send  their  blond  to 
Paris  purposely  to  be  washed,  and  when  returned  it  looks  as 
if  quite  new. 


A  WHITE  LACE  VEIL.— Make  a  strong  lather  with 
white  soap  and  very  clear  or  filtered  water.  Put  the  veil  into 
it,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  it  out, 
and  squeeze  it  well,  but  be  sure  not  to  rub  it.  Rinse  it  in  two 
cold  waters,  with  a  drop  or  two  of  liquid  blue  in  the  last. 

Have  ready  some  very  clear  and  weak  gum  arable  water,  or 
some  thin  starch,  or  some  rice  water.  Pass  the  veil  through  it, 
and  clear  it  by  clapping.  Then  stretch  it  out  even,  and  pin  it 
to  dry  on  a  linen  cloth,  making  the  edge  as  straight  as  possible, 
and  opening  out  all  the  scollops,  fastening  each  with  pins. 
When  dry,  lay  a  piece  of  thin  muslin  smoothly  over  it,  and 
iron  it  on  the  wrong  side. 

Every  time  you  put  it  away,  fold  it  differently,  as  lace  veils 
have  been  known  to  crack  in  squares  from  being  always  folded 
the  same  way. 

White  lace  sleeves  may  be  washed  in  the  above  manner. 


56 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


A  BLACK  LACE  VEIL  Mix  bullock's  gall  with  auffi- 

cient  hot  water  to  make  it  as  warm  as  you  can  bear  your  hand 
In.  Then  pass  the  veil  through  it.  It  must  be  squeezed, 
and  not  rubbed.  It  will  be  well  to  perfume  the  gall  with  a 
little  musk.  Next  rinse  the  veil  through  two  cold  waters, 
tinging  the  last  with  a  little  blue.  Then  dry  it.  Have  ready 
in  a  pan  some  stiffening  made  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  a 
very  small  piece  of  glue.  Put  the  veil  into  it,  squeeze  it  out, 
stretch  it,  and  clap  it.  Afterwards  pin  it  out  to  dry  on  a  linen 
cloth,  making  it  very  straight  and  even,  and  taking  care  to  open 
and  pin  the  edge  very  nicely. 

When  dry,  iron  it  on  the  wrong  side,  having  laid  a  linen  cloth 
over  the  ironing  blanket. 

Any  article  of  black  lace  may  be  washed  in  this  manner. 

TO  WASH  RIBBONS,  SILK  HANDKERCHIEFS,  &c. 
— None  but  ribbons  of  excellent  quality,  of  one  entire  colour, 
and  of  a  plain  unfigured  surface,  will  bear  washing.  A  good 
satin  or  mantua  ribbon  may  be  made  to  look  very  well  by 
washing  it  carefully,  first  in  cold  water,  to  which  add  a  few 
drops  of  spirits  of  wine:  then  make  a  lather  of  white  soap 
and  lukewarm  water,  and  wash  the  ribbon  through  that;  after- 
wards rinse  it  in  cold  water,  pull  it  even,  and  dry  it  gradually. 
When  dry,  stretch  out  the  ribbon  on  an  ironing-table,  (securing 
it  to  the  cloth  by  pins,)  and  sponge  it  evenly  all  over  with  a 
very  weak  solution  of  isinglass,  that  has  been  boiled  in  clear 
water  and  strained ;  or  if  you  have  no  isinglass,  rice-water  will 
be  a  tolerable  substitute  for  restoring  the  stiffness  and  gloss. 
To  iron  the  ribbon,  lay  it  within  a  sheet  of  clean  smooth  letter- 
paper,  (the  paper  being  both  under  and  over  it,)  and  press  it 
with  a  heated  iron  moved  quickly. 

If  the  colour  is  lilac,  add  a  little  dissolved  pearlash  to  the 


WASHING. 


57 


rinsing-water.  If  green,  a  little  vinegar  in  which  you  have 
steeped  a  few  cents.  If  pink,  or  blue,  a  few  drops  of  oil  of 
vitriol.  If  yellow,  a  little  tincture  of  saffron.  Other  colours 
may  be  set  by  stirring  a  tea-spoonful  of  ox-gall  into  the  first 
water.  If  white,  a  salt-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  mixed  with 
the  soap-suds. 

It  is  seldom  worth  while  to  take  the  trouble  of  washing  rib- 
bon, unless  you  have  a  tolerable  quantity  to  do.  Unfigured 
silk  handkerchiefs  and  scarfs  may  be  washed  and  ironed  in  the 
above  manner.  The  proportion  of  spirits  of  wine,  is  about  a 
table-spoonful  to  a  gallon  of  water. 


WHITE  SILK  STOCKINGS.— Soap  them,  and  let  them 
soak  all  night.  In  the  morning,  wash  them  through  a  strong 
lather  of  white  soap  and  warm  soft  water,  and  then  boil  them 
ten  minutes  in  another  lather  of  the  same.  If  not  quite  clean, 
wash  them  through  another  warm  suds.  Then  rinse  them 
through  two  cold  waters.  If  you  wish  them  a  blueish  white, 
mix  a  drop  or  two  of  liquid  blue  with  the  last  water,  and 
let  them  lie  in  it  a  few  minutes.  Then  squeeze  and  dry  them. 
If  you  wish  them  a  pale  flesh  colour,  mix  a  very  little  rose- 
pink  with  the  last  water,  which  should  be  very  slightly  tinged 
with  soap.  When  they  are  dry,  stretch  and  pin  them  on  the 
ironing-sheet,  but  do  not  iron  them,  as  it  is  best  to  smooth  them 
by  hard  rubbing  with  the  end  of  a  clean  piece  of  flannel  formed 
into  a  tight  roll.  Silk  stockings,  when  ironed  in  the  usual 
way,  never  look  new. 

Wash  and  smooth  white  silk  gloves  in  the  same  manner. 

If  the  stockings  or  gloves  have  open  or  lace  work  about  them, 
and  are  consequently  of  delicate  texture,  do  not  rub  them  in 
washing,  but  merely  squeeze  and  press  them  with  your 
hands 


58 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


BLACK  SILK  STOCKINGS.— Cut  some  white  soap  into 
thin  bits,  and  boil  it  in  soft  water  till  thoroughly  dissolved. 
Then  mix  a  little  of  it  in  cold  water,  adding  a  tea-spoonful  of 
gall.  Having  turned  the  stockings  on  the  wrong  side, 
and  rubbed  a  little  of  the  boiled  soap  on  the  dirtiest  places, 
wash  them  well  through  the  lukewarm  suds.  Repeat  the 
washing,  in  fresh  suds  and  water,  till  they  are  quite  clean. 
Then  rinse  them  through  two  cold  waters,  adding  to  the  last 
a  little  blue  from  the  indigo  bag.  Then  squeeze  them  well, 
stretch  them  even,  and  hang  them  out  immediately.  While 
still  damp,  turn  them  right  side  out,  stretch  and  pin  them  on 
an  ironing  blanket,  and  with  the  end  of  a  bit  of  rolled  up  flan- 
nel, or  a  smooth  stone,  rub  them  hard  and  quick  one  way,  till 
they  are  quite  dry,  and  look  smooth  and  glossy.  This  is  bet- 
ter than  to  iron  them,  which  always  gives  silk  stockings  an 
old  appearance. 

Black  silk  gloves  may  be  washed  as  above ;  if  they  have 
open  work,  do  them  with  great  care. 


TO  TINGE  SILK  STOCKINGS  A  PALE  PINK.— The 

stockings  of  course  must  be  originally  white  or  flesh-coloured. 
Previous  to  dyeing,  wash  them  in  the  usual  manner,  in  two 
lathers  of  warm  water  and  white  soap,  squeezing  and  pressing 
rather  than  rubbing  them.  Rinse  them  through  two  cold 
waters,  and  then  stretch  and  dry  them.  Before  you  put  them 
into  the  dye,  steep  them  in  cold  water  and  squeeze  the  water 
out.    They  must  go  into  the  dye  wet. 

To  make  the  dye,  gather  a  large  tea-cupful  of  the  fresh 
flowers  or  blossoms  of  the  bergamot  plant.  Put  them  into  a 
china  bowl,  press  them  down  hard,  and  pour  on  sufficient  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  them.  Then  cover  the  bowl  closely  with  a 
plate,  and  let  the  bergamot  stand  an  hour  or  more  to  infuse. 


WASHixa.  59 


When  the  liquid  is  well  coloured,  strain  it,  dilute  it  with  cold 
water  to  the  desired  shade,  and  add  five  or  six  drops  of  oil  of 
vitriol  to  set  the  colour.  Then  take  the  stockings,  one  at  a 
time,  immerse  them  thoroughly  and  evenly  in  the  dye,  and 
squeeze  them  through  it.  Afterwards,  when  all  the  liquid  is 
squeezed  out,  open  and  stretch  them  well,  and  hang  them  up 
in  the  shade.  While  still  a  little  damp,  pin  them,  well-stretched, 
upon  the  ironing-cloth,  (they  must  be  right  side  out,)  and  rub 
them  till  quite  dry  with  the  end  of  a  clean  flannel  formed  into 
a  tight  roll,  or  with  a  smooth  stone.  This  will  give  them  an 
appearance  of  newness,  which  they  will  not  have  if  ironed 
in  the  usual  way. 

Instead  of  oil  of  vitriol,  you  may  set  the  colour  with  half  a 
dozen  drops  of  vinegar  of  wood. 

WHITE  FRENCH  THREAD  GLOVES  AND  STOCK- 
INGS,— These  articles  are  so  delicate  as  to  require  great  care 
in  washing,  and  they  must  on  no  account  be  rubbed.  Make  a 
lather  of  white  soap  and  cold  water,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan. 
Soap  the  gloves  or  stockings  well,  put  them  in,  and  set  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire.  When  they  have  come  to  a  hard  boil, 
take  them  off;  and  when  cool  enough  for  your  hand,  squeeze 
them  in  the  water.  Having  prepared  a  fresh  cold  lather,  boil 
them  again  in  that.  Then  take  the  pan  oflf  the  fire,  and  as  soon 
as  4he  water  is  cool  enough  for  you  to  bear  your  hand  in  it, 
squeeze  them  well  again.  Then  rinse  them  through  two  cold 
waters,  stretch,  dry,  and  iron  them  on  the  wrong  side. 

It  is  well  to  soap  them  a  little  over  night,  and  lay  them  to 
soak  in  cold  water  till  next  day. 


UNBLEACHED  STOCKINGS  AND  GLOVES.— If 
the  brownish  colour  of  unbleached  cotton  or  thread  stockings 


60 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


is  allowed  to  fade,  they  will  look  like  veVy  dirty  white,  which 
is  by  no  means  desirable.  After  washing  and  rinsing  them  in 
the  usual  manner,  squeeze  and  open  them  out.  Strain  into  a 
basin  some  cold  coffee,  (any  that  has  been  left  at  breakfast  will 
do,)  and  when  the  stockings  have  been  squeezed  and  opened 
out  from  the  rinsing  water,  put  them  wet  into  the  coffee,  and 
work  them  about  in  it,  till  they  have  thoroughly  taken  the 
colour.  Then  squeeze  them  out,  and  dry  them  in  the  shade. 
Iron  them  on  the  wrong  side.    They  will  look  as  if  new. 

If  you  have  not  much  coffee,  you  need  only  immerse  the 
feet  of  the  stockings  in  it,  and  the  leg  as  far  up  as  the  calf. 
With  strong  coffee  you  may  make  them  a  beautiful  light  brown 
colour. 


WASH-LEATHER  GLOVES.— Gloves  of  what  is  called 
wash-leather,  should  first  have  the  grease-spots  taken  out,  by 
rubbing  on  them  either  magnesia,  cream  of  tartar,  or  Wilming- 
ton clay  scraped  to  powder.  Then  make  a  lather  of  white 
soap  and  lukewarm  water;  (hot  water  will  shrink  them;) 
wash  and  squeeze  them  through  this :  and  then  squeeze  them 
through  a  second  suds.  Rinse  them  first  in  lukewarm  water, 
and  then  in  cold,  and  stretch  them  to  dry  before  the  fire  or  in 
the  sun. 


ANOTHER  WAY.— Having  removed  the  grease-spots, 
you  may  wash  the  gloves  (one  at  a  time  on  your  hands)  by 
rubbing  them  with  a  clean  sponge  wet  with  lukewarm  soap- 
suds. Then  wash  off  the  suds  with  another  sponge  dipped  in 
clear  water.  Afterwards  pull  and  stretch  them  well,  and  hang 
them  to  dry  before  the  fire  or  in  the  hot  sun.  When  almost 
dry,  put  them  again  on  your  hands,  and  keep  them  there  till 
quite  dry,  which  will  prevent  them  from  shrinking. 


WASHING. 


61 


COLOURED  KID  OR  HOSKIN  GLOVES.  — Have 
ready  on  a  table  a  clean  towel  folded  three  or  four  times,  a 
saucer  of  new  milk,  and  another  saucer  with  a  piece  of  brown 
soap.  Take  one  glove  at  a  time,  and  spread  it  smoothly  on  the 
folded  towel.  Then  dip  in  the  milk  a  piece  of  clean  flannel, 
rub  it  on  the  soap  till  you  get  off  a  tolerable  quantity,  and 
then  with  the  wet  flannel  commence  rubbing  the  glove.  Begin 
at  the  wrist,  and  rub  lengthways  towards  the  end  of  the  fingers, 
holding  the  glove  firmly  in  your  left  hand.  Continue  this 
process  till  the  glove  is  well  cleaned  all  over  with  the  milk  and 
soap.  When  done,  spread  them  out,  and  pin  them  on  a  line 
to  dry  gradually.  When  nearly  dry,  pull  them  out  evenly, 
the  cross-way  of  the  leather.  When  quite  dry,  stretch  them 
on  your  hands. 

White  kid  gloves  may  be  washed  in  this  manner,  provided 
they  have  never  been  cleaned  with  India  rubber. 

In  mending  the  seam  of  a  kid  glove  that  has  been  ripped, 
always  sew  it  backwards ;  otherwise,  it  will  stretch  out  of 
shape. 


WHITE  KID  GLOVES.— Stretch  the  gloves  on  a  clean 
board,  and  rub  all  the  soiled  or  grease-spots  with  cream  of 
tartar  or  magnesia.  Let  them  rest  an  hour.  Then  have  ready 
a  mixture  of  alum  and  fuller's  earth,  (both  powdered,)  and  rub 
it  all  over  the  gloves  with  a  brush,  (a  clean  tooth-brush  or 
something  similar,)  and  let  them  rest  for  an  hour  or  two. 
Then  sweep  it  all  off,  and  go' over  them  with  a  flannel  dipped 
in  a  mixture  of  bran  and  finely  powdered  whiting.  Let  them 
rest  another  hour;  then  brush  oflf  the  powder,  and  you  will 
find  them  clean. 

On  no  consideration  clean  gloves  with  turpentine,  as  you 
will  be  unable  to  wear  them  on  account  of  the  smell.  Turpen- 
6 


62 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


tine  should  never  be  applied  to  any  article  that  cannot  be 
thoroughly  washed  before  it  is  used. 

Leather  of  the  natural  colour  (a  saddle,  for  instance)  may  be 
cleaned  by  means  of  oxalic  acid  dissolved  in  water,  and 
rubbed  on  with  a  sponge,  washing  it  off  immediately.  - 

GENTLEMEN'S  WHITE  LEATHER  GLOVES.— A 

gentleman  may  clean  his  white  leather  gloves  to  look  very 
well  by  putting  them  one  at  a  time  on  his  hands,  after  he  has 
done  shaving,  and  going  over  them  thoroughly  with  his  shave- 
brush  and  lather;  then  wiping  them  off  with  a  soft  clean 
handkerchief  or  sponge,  and  drying  them  on  his  hands  by  the 
fire ;  or  hanging  them  before  the  fire  or  in  the  hot  sun ;  and, 
while  still  damp,  putting  them  on  his  hands  till  quite  dry,  to 
prevent  their  shrinking. 

TO  SHRINK  WIDE  BOBBINET.— It  is  best  to  shrink 
new  bobbinet  before  it  is  cut  out ;  otherwise  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  make  the  cap  or  collar  too  large  at  first,  lest  it  should 
become  too  small  by  shrinking  after  being  washed.  Dip  the 
piece  of  bobbinet  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  take  it  out 
immediately.  Squeeze  it  hard  with  your  hands  till  the  mois- 
ture ceases  to  drip  from  it ;  then  open  and  stretch  it,  till  you 
get  it  as  straight  and  even  as  possible.  Afterwards,  fold  it 
up,  and  lay  it  between  the  folds  of  a  clean  fine  towel.  By  the 
time  you  have  heated  an  iron,  the  bobbinet  will  be  in  a  state  to 
smooth  over.  Try  the  iron  first  on  some  other  thin  thing :  for 
if  the  least  too  hot,  it  will  discolour  the  bobbinet. 

If  sprigged,  iron  it  on  the  wrong  side. 

TO  SHRINK  COTTON  CORD.— Cord  intended  for  a 
chintz  or  muslin  dress,  should  be  shrunk  before  it  is  used. 


WASHING. 


63 


Otherwise,  it  will,  after  washing,  contract  in  its  covering,  and 
pucker  the  seams,  bands,  &c.,  by  shrinking  more  in  proportion 
than  the  materials  of  which  the  dress  is  made.  To  prevent 
this,  open  or  unwind  the  hank  of  new  cord,  and  having  laid  it 
loosely  in  a  bowl,  pour  on  a  sufficiency  of  boiling  water.  Let 
it  set  in  the  scald  till  the  water  becomes  cold  ;  then  take  out 
the  cord,  squeeze  it  hard,  and  spread  it  to  dry.  When  quite 
dry,  wind  it  on  a  card,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

A  SWAN'S-DOWN  CAPE  OR  TIPPET.— Make  a 
strong  lather  of  the  best  white  soap  and  lukewarm  water ;  hot 
water  will  shrink  the  skin  of  the  swan's-down.  Work  and 
squeeze  the  swan's-down  through  the  suds,  but  do  not  rub  it. 
Then  do  the  same  through  a  second  lukewarm  suds,  and  per- 
sist till  you  see  that  the  article  looks  clean  and  white.  After- 
wards rinse  it  through  two  waters,  (the  first  lukewarm,  the 
second  cold,)  squeezing  it  carefully.  Then  shake  it  out  and 
dry  it  in  the  sun  or  by  the  fire,  holding  it  in  your  hands  and 
shaking  it  all  the  time,  to  prevent  its  looking  matted  or  in 
tufts.  You  may  wash  a  swan's-down  bonnet  in  this  manner; 
first  removing  the  lining. 

Marabout  or  down  feathers  may  be  washed  in  a  similar  way. 

When  but  little  soiled,  you  may  clean  swan's-down  in  the 
following  manner,  without  washing  it.  Powder  some  plaster 
of  Paris  as  finely  as  possible,  sift  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and 
then  heat  it  over  the  fire.  When  the  powder  is  quite  warm, 
but  not  burning  hot,  lay  the  swan's-down  in  a  large  clean 
metal  pan,  (heated  also,)  and  sift  the  powder  over  it  through  a 
sieve,  turning  the  swan's-down  about,  and  seeing  that  the 
powder  is  dispersed  well  through  it.  Repeat  the  process  till 
the  swan's-down  looks  very  white.  Then  take  it  out  and  shake 
off  the  loose  powder. 


64 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


CLEANING  MARABOUT  OR  DOWN  FEATHERS. 

— Make  a  strong  lather  of  fine  white  soap,  and  soft  lukewarm 
water.  If  the  water  is  not  perfectly  clear,  it  must  be  filtered. 
Take  the  feathers  separately,  and  immerse  them  in  the  suds 
till  they  are  quite  full  of  it.  Then  wash  them,  one  at  a  time, 
by  drawing  them  through  your  hand ;  changing  the  watfer 
when  necessary,  till  the  last  suds  remains  quite  clean,  and  the 
feathers  look  perfectly  white  and  nice.  Have  ready  some 
moderately  stiff,  and  exceedingly  smooth  starCh,  made  with 
cold  water,  and  a  very  little  blue  from  the  indigo  bag  squeezed 
into  it.  This  starch  must  not  be  boiled.  Pass  the  feathers 
separately  through  it,  and  then  drain  them  well.  Next,  take 
them,  one  at  a  time,  in  your  hands,  and  shake  them  out  in  the 
sun  and  air ;  continuing  to  shake  till  they  are  quite  dry.  A 
bright  windy  day  is  best  for  this  purpose. 

If  dried  by  the  fire,  they  will  not  be  so  good  a  white. 

Ostrich  feathers  may  be  cleaned  in  the  same  manner.  To 
curl  them,  hold  them  near  the  fire  while  damp,  and  if  you 
have  not  the  proper  instrument,  (a  long  sort  of  bodkin  made 
for  the  purpose,)  you  can  substitute  a  pair  of  dull  scissors. 
Take  each  fibre  of  the  feather  separately  between  the  points 
of  the  scissors,  and  give  it  a  twitch  or  turn  inwards,  holding 
it  in  that  position  a  moment,  to  give  it  the  proper  set. 

Black  feathers,  when  straightened  by  damp  weather,  may 
be  curled  in  the  above  manner. 

White  feathers  should  never  be  worn  when  the  weather  is 
damp. 


WASHING  BED  FEATHERS.— New  bed  feathers,  in 
consequence  of  retaining  the  animal  oil,  are  damp,  heavy,  and 
have  a  peculiar  smell.  To  remedy  this  inconvenience,  they 
should,  before  they  are  used,  have  a  thorough  cleansing  in  lime- 


W  A  S  H  I  K  G. 


65 


water;  but  it'  this  has  not  been  effectually  done,  they  must  be 
taken  out  of  the  ticks,  and  subjected  to  the  proper  process,  as 
it  is  not  only  disagreeable,  but  unwholesome  to  sleep  on  them 
in  their  oily  state. 

Prepare  some  lime-water,  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  pound 
of  quick-lime  to  a  gallon  of  soft  water.  Put  it  into  a  tub  or 
tubs,  and  having  stirred  it  well,  let  it  stand  all  night;  then 
pour  off,  for  use,  all  the  lime-water  that  is  perfectly  clear  :  the 
lime  having  settled  to  the  bottom.  Put  the  feathers  into  a 
large  deep  tub,  and  pour  on  as  much  lime-water  as  will  cover 
them  about  three  or  four  inches,  after  they  have  been  well 
immersed,  and  stirred  about  in  it  with  a  stick.  When  they 
have  stood  two  days,  and  been  frequently  stirred,  pour  off  the 
lime-water,  and  replace  it  with  a  new  supply.  Let  them  stand 
two  days  longer,  still  stirring  them  at  times.  Afterwards,  take 
them  out,  (squeezing  the  dirty  water  from  them,)  and  wash 
them  well  in  a  tub  of  clean  water  without  lime.  Then  squeeze 
them  out,  a  handful  ai  a  time,  and  spread  them  to  drain  on 
sieves.  The  best,  way  of  drying  them,  is  by  suspending  them, 
exposed  to  the  sun  and  air,  in  nets  whose  meshes  are  about 
the  size  of  those  of  cabbage-nets.  Shake  them  frequently  in 
the  nets,  and  collect  all  the  feathers  that  fall  through  the 
meshes.  They  must  always  be  brought  in  doors  when  the 
weather  is  damp,  and  may  take  about  three  weeks  to  dry 
thoroughly.  If  you  have  no  nets,  spread  them  on  the  floor  of 
an  empty  garret  or  loft;  stirring  and  turning  them  frequently, 
and  picking  out  the  hard  quills  and  stripping  the  down  from 
them. 

When  they  are  all  clean  and  dry,  put  them  into  large  coarse 
bags  in  the  form  of  a  tick ;  lay  them  on  a  floor,  and  beat  them 
on  all  sides  with  lon^  sticks  like  broom  Tiandles,  till  the 
feathers  are  perfectly  light  and  lively. 

6* 


66 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Old  feathers  may  be  greatly  improved  by  emptying  the  tick, 
(which  should  also  be  washed,)  and  washing  them  through 
several  lathers  of  strong  soap-suds.  Rinse  them  well  in  cold 
water,  drain  them  on  sieves,  and  spread  them  to  dry  as  above 
on  the  floor  of  an  empty  garret.  Their  drying  may  be  accele- 
rated by  sewing  them  in  a  coarse  sheet,  and  putting  them  into 
the  oven  on  a  baking-day,  after  the  bread  is  drawn,  and  letting 
them  remain  there  till  next  morning.  This  should  be  several 
times  repeated.    Then  put  them  into  bags  and  beat  them. 

Fresh  feathers  that  have  been  newly  plucked  from  the  geese, 
should  be  laid  loosely  in  large  baskets,  placed  in  the  garret, 
and  stirred  very  frequently. 

The  smell  of  new  feathers  in  a  bed  or  pillows,  may  be  some- 
what remedied,  by  ripping  the  seams  in  a  few  places,  and 
putting  in  lumps  of  camphor;  afterwards  sewing  them  up 
again  immediately. 

In  the  middle  states  the  usual  time  for  picking  geese  is  in 
August,  as  at  that  season  they  moult  or  shed  their  small  fea.- 
thers,  which,  if  allowed  to  drop  about  of  themselves,  will  be 
lost  or  wasted.  The  person  that  performs  this  business  should 
put  on  a  coarse  tow  apron,  and  holding  the  goose  on  her  lap, 
with  one  hand  should  carefully  pick  out  all  the  small  loose 
feathers  with  the  other,  and  put  them  into  a  large  basket  or  tub 
placed  beside  her  for  the  purpose.  Geese-picking  is  generally 
done  in  a  porch  or  out-house;  but  a  dry,  warm,  calm  day 
should  be  chosen  for  it,  that  the  feathers  may  not  be  blown 
about  by  the  wind.  Let  it  not  be  done  if  the  weather  is  damp  or 
cool,  as  the  geese  may  catch  cold  from  the  loss  of  their  feathers. 

RENEWING  MATTRASSES.— When  mattrasses  have 
been  long  in  use,  the  hair  or  wool  with  which  they  are  stuffed 
becomes  clodded  or  knotted  in  lumps,  making  it  impossible  to 


CLEANING    ARTICLES    OF    DRESS,  ETC.  67 

sleep  on  them  with  any  degree  of  comfort.  They  should  then 
be  carried  into  a  spare  garret  or  out-house,  and  taken  to  pieces. 
The  stuffing  should  be  carefully  picked  apart  by  hand  till  it 
becomes  thoroughly  loose  and  open,  throwing  it,  as  it  is  done, 
into  large  baskets.  Afterwards  a  new  tick  should  be  made, 
and  filled  with  the  stuffing;  as  the  old  one  will  scarcely  be 
worth  using  again  for  the  same  purpose ;  but  it  may  be  washed 
and  converted  into  floor-cloths,  &c. 

When  the  new  tick  is  filled,  stitch  it  through  with  pack- 
thread or  fine  twine,  and  a  long  mattrass  needle,  (which 
may  be  procured  at  a  hardware  store,)  securing  every  stitch 

with  a  little  bit  of  buckskin  run  on  the  needle. 

Hair  mattrasses  are  much  better  than  those  of  wool,  which 

are  not  sufficiently  cool  for  summer. 

Mattrasses  will  generally  require  taking  apart  and  picking 

about  once  in  three  years,  if  they  are  in  continual  use. 

Straw  mattrasses  should  be  occasionally  emptied  and  filled 

with  fresh  straw.    When  straw  becomes  old,  it  has  a  musty 

smell,  which  makes  the  mattrass  unwholesome  to  sleep  on ; 

also,  it  will  produce  fleas. 

TO  CLEAN  A  STRAW  OR  LEGHORN  BONNET.— 
Having  separated  the  crown  from  the  brim  and  the  cape  or 
neck-piece,  and  removed  the  lining  and  wire,  the  next  thing 
is  to  take  out  whatever  stains  may  be  found  in  the  bonnet,  the 
crown  of  which  should  be  put  on  a  wooden  block.  For  grease, 
rub  on  with  your  finger  some  powdered  Wilmington  clay,  or 
a  little  magnesia;  and  in  an  hour  or  two  brush  it  off,  and  renew 
the  application,  if  necessary.  For  other  stains  use  either 
cream  of  tartar  or  salt  of  sorrel,  put  on  a  little  wet.  If  salt 
of  sorrel,  it  must  be  washed  off  again  almost  immediately,  lest 
it  injure  the  straw  by  remaining  on  it.    Afterwards  (keeping 


68 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


the  crown  still  on  the  bonnet-block)  go  over  the  whole  surface 
of  the  bonnet  with  a  brush  dipped  in  a  weak  solution  of  pearl- 
ash  in  lukewarm  water,  (a  tea-spoonful  to  a  quart.)  Then 
scour  it  off  at  once,  with  a  strong  lather  of  brown  soap  and 
cold  water,  put  on  with  a  clean  brush.    When  all  the  bonnet 
is  well  cleaned,  rinse  it  in  cold  water,  and  hang  it  in  the  sun 
to  dry.    Bonnet  cleaning  should  never  be  undertaken  in  damp 
weather.    When  the  bonnet  is  perfectly  dry,  you  may  proceed 
to  whiten  it.    Fill  a  chafing  dish  or  portable  furnace  with  burn- 
ing charcoal ;  carry  it  into  a  small  close  room  or  into  an  empty 
press  or  closet,  and  by  a  line  suspended  /cross,  hang  the  bon- 
net over  the  charcoal,  at  a  safe  distance,  so  that  it  will  be  in  no 
danger  of  scorching.    Then  strew  over  the  coals  an  ounce  or 
two  of  powdered  brimstone,  and  immediately  go  out  and  shut 
the  door,  seeing  that  no  air  whatever  can  get  into  the  room. 
After  the  bonnet  has  hung  in  the  vapour  sii  or  seven  hours, 
throw  open  the  door,  (having  first  left  open  en  outside  door  or 
window,  so  as  to  admit  immediately  the  fresh  air,)  and  go  into 
the  room  as  soon  as  you  find  you  can  do  fo  without  incon- 
venience from  the  fumes  of  the  charcoal  anc  sulphur.  Then 
bring  out  the  bonnet,  and  hang  it  in  the  open  air  till  the  smell 
of  the  brimstone  has  entirely  left  it.    If  the  day  is  windy,  so 
much  the  better ;  but  the  bonnet  must  on  no  iccount  be  hung 
out  if  the  weather  is  damp,  and  it  must  be  brought  in  before 
sunset.    If  it  is  not  sufficiently  white,  repeat  next  day  the 
process  of  bleaching  it  with  charcoal  and  brinstone. 

The  next  thing  is  to  stifien  the  bonnet.  To  make  the  stiffen- 
ing, boil  in  two  quarts  of  soft  water,  a  quart<r  of  a  pound  of 
vellum  shavings,  (the  vellum  of  buffalo's  hide  Ls  best,)  filling 
it  up  occasionally,  if  it  seems  to  be  boiling  tco  dry.  It  must 
boil  or  simmer  slowly  for  six  or  seven  hours.  Then,  when  you 
take  it  from  the  fire,  let  it  stand  a  while  to  setie  ;  after  which, 


CLEANING    ARTICLES    OF    DRESS,  ETC.  69 

pour  it  off  into  a  basin,  and  it  will  become  a  thick  jelly.  To 
the  sediment  left  :n  the  pot,  you  may  add  a  second  two  quarts 
of  water ;  and  after  a  second  boiling,  it  will  form  another  jelly 
or  sizing,  strong  enough  for  similar  purposes.  When  you  are 
going  to  use  it  for  a  bonnet,  melt  up  a  pint  of  this  jelly,  and 
mix  with  it  a  small  half-tea-spoonful  of  oxalic  acid,  (not  more, 
or  it  will  injure  the  straw,)  and  then  with  a  clean  sponge  or 
brush  go  all  over  the  bonnet,  inside  and  out,  with  the  sizing. 
Dry  the  bonnet;  and  when  quite  dry,  go  over  it  again  with  a 
second  wash  of  the  stiffening.  Dry  it  again,  and  then  spread 
over  it  a  wet  piece  of  jaconet  muslin;  or  damp  the  bonnet  all 
over  with  a  sponge  and  lukewarm  water,  and  then  cover  it  with 
a  fine  white  handkerchief,  while  you  press  it  hard  and  evenly 
with  a  warm  box-iron,  exerting  all  your  strength.  The  crown 
must  be  pressed  while  on  the  bonnet-block ;  the  brim  may  be 
done  on  an  ironing-table.  Afterwards  expose  the  bonnet  to  the 
air,  till  it  becomes  perfectly  dry ;  and  next  day  it  will  be  ready 
for  putting  together,  lining,  and  trimming ;  first  mending  what- 
ever defective  places  may  be  found  in  it. 

The  front  of  a  bonnet  will  keep  its  shape  much  better  if  the 
wire  is  thick  and  stout.  In  lining  a  bonnet,  the  best  way  for 
a  novice  in  the  art,  is  to  pin  a  large  sheet  of  thin  soft  paper  on 
the  outside  of  the  brim,  and  (having  fitted  it  smoothly)  cut  it 
of  the  proper  shape  and  size,  allowing  a  little  for  turning  in  at 
the  edge.  Then  piti  the  paper  into  the  inside  of  the  brim,  and 
if  it  fits  perfectly  sniooth,  cut  out  the  silk  lining  by  it.  A  piece 
of  oiled  silk  sewed  all  round  the  inside  of  the  crown,  at  the 
joining  place,  and  extending  down  a  little  upon  the  the  brim, 
will  prevent  the  stain  from  perspiration,  that  so  freauently 
disfigures  that  part  of  a  bonnet. 

Without  a  regular  cleaning  in  the  preceding  manner,  a  dis- 
coloured straw  bonnet  may  be  improved  in  appearance,  if 


7b 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


pre^iious  to  putting  on  a  fresh  trimming,  you  stretch  the  bonnet 
on  a  block,  (or  something  that  will  answer  the  purpose,)  and 
go  all  over  it  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  lukewarm  water,  in 
which  has  been  dissolved  pearl-ash,  in  the  proportion  of  a 
small  tea-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  to  a  pint  of  water ;  afterwards 
rinsing  it  off,  wiping  it  hard  with  a  flannel,  and  drying  it  well. 
Next,  go  over  it  with  a  clean  sponge  dipped  in  strong  rice-water, 
which  will  be  the  better  for  having  dissolved  in  it  a  half-tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar  of  lead.  Then  dry  the  bonnet,  and  having 
damped  it  all  over  with  a  wet  sponge,  cover  it  with  thin  mus- 
lin, and  press  it  hard  with  a  heavy  and  moderately  warm  iron. 

TO  TAKE  CARE  OF  BEAVER  HATS.— A  hat  should 
be  brushed  every  day-  with  a  hat-brush ;  and  twice  a  day  in 
dusty  weather.  When  a  hat  gets  wet,  wipe  it  as  dry  as  you 
can  with  a  clean  handkerchief,  and  then  brush  it  with  a  soft 
brush,  before  you  put  it  to  dry.  When  nearly  dry,  go  over  it 
with  a  harder  brush.  If  it  still  looks  rough,  damp  it  with  a 
sponge  dipped  in  vinegar  or  stale  beer,  and  brush  it  with  a 
hard  brush  till  dry. 

A  good  beaver  hat  should  always,  when  not  in  constant  use, 
be  kept  in  a  hat-box,  with  a  hat-stick  extended  inside  of  the 
crown  , 

TO  CLEAN  GOLD  ORNAMENTS— For  chains,  ear- 
rings, and  other  articles  of  gold  jewelry,  make  a  lather  of  fine 
white  soap  and  warm  water,  adding  to  it  from  ten  to  twenty 
drops  of  hartshorn.  Wash  the  articles  in  this  with  a  clean 
sponge,  and  (if  very  much  tarnished)  boil  them  in  it  for  five 
or  six  minutes.  Have  ready  a  deep  plate  of  magnesia  powder, 
that  has  been  heated  before  the  fire.  Immediately  on  taking 
the  articles  out  of  the  suds,  lay  them  in  the  warm  magnesia, 


CLEANING    ARTICLES    OF  DRESS. 


71 


and  let  them  remain  in  it  till  they  are  quite  dry.  Then  rub  them 
tright  with  a  fine  soft  flannel ;  using  a  very  small  soft  brush  for 
the  parts  that  are  chased  or  embossed.  If  there  are  stones  in  the 
jewels  they  must  not  be  washed  or  boiled,  but  simply  rubbed 
with  the  magnesia  and  flannel. 


CLEANING  PEARLS.— If  allowed  to  get  wet,  pearls 
soon  become  dull  and  discoloured.  Pearl  rings  (and  all  rings 
that  have  stones  in  them)  should  always  be  taken  off  the  fin- 
gers when  the  hands  are  washed,  and  not  resumed  till  they  are 
perfectly  dry.  The  beauty  of  jewelry  is  also  injured  if  worn 
in  warm  weather,  when  the  skin  perspires.  Pearls  should  be 
frequently  brightened  by  rubbing  them  carefully  with  a  bit  of 
white  pin-paper  made  into  a  little  roll,  and  using  the  point  or 
end  of  the  roll. 


TO  CLEAN  AND  MEND  TORTOISE-SHELL.— When 
tortoise-shell  looks  dull,  its  lustre  may  be  revived  and  a  fine 
polish  given  to  it,  by  first  washing  it  clean  in  soap-suds,  and 
then,  after  wiping  it  perfectly  dry,  rubbing  it  with  sweet  oil, 
mixed  with  rotten-stone  finely  powdered  and  sifted  through 
thin  muslin.  Let  it  rest  an  hour ;  then  wipe  olF  the  rotten- 
stone  ;  cover  the  tortoise-shell  with  magnesia  powder,  and 
after  a  while,  finish  with  a  silk  handkerchief.  It  will  look  as 
well  as  new,  if,  instead  of  the  magnesia,  you  rub  on  a  very 
littk  of  the  reddish  brown  powder  that  the  silversmiths  call 
rouge. 

To  repair  a  tortoise-shell  comb  from  which  a  tooth  has  been 
broken,  have  ready  a  new  tooth  rather  longer  than  the  old 
one,  (and  having  wet  it  with  water,)  soften  the  upper  or 
broadest  end  of  the  new  tooth  by  holding  it  in  a  pair  of  hot 
pincers.    The  part  of  the  comb  from  which  the  old  tooth  was 


72 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


broken  must  be  wet  and  softened  in  the  same  way.  Then  lay  the 
vacant  part  of  the  comb  and  the  broad  end  of  the  new  tooth  to- 
gether while  soft,  (one  over  the  other,)  and  pinch  or  squeeze 
Ihera  with  the  pincers  to  unite  them  smoothly.  When  cold,  the 
new  tooth  will  be  found  firmly  welded  in  its  place. 

This  is  a  very  nice  operation,  but  can  be  performed  in  such 
a  manner  that  the  join  is  quite  imperceptible.  If  in  a  city,  it 
is  best  to  have  it  done  by  a  comb-maker.  As  it  shows  no  ap- 
pearance of  ever  having  been  broken,  it  is  of  course  very  su- 
perior to  the  old-fashioned  method  of  mending  a  comb  with  a 
silver  rivet.   There  must  be  no  grease  about  it. 

TO  CLEAN  HEAD  ANJ)  CLOTHES  BRUSHES.— 
Put  a  table-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Having  fastened  a  bit  of  sponge  to  the  end  of  a  stick,  dip  it 
into  the  solution,  and  wash  the  brush  with  it ;  carefully  going 
in  among  the  bristles.  Next  pour  over  it  some  clean  hot  water, 
and  let  it  lie  a  little  while.  Then  drain  it,  wipe  it  with  a  cloth, 
and  dry  it  before  the  fire. 


TO  CLEAN  COMBS.— Tie  one  end  of  a  strong  silk 
thread  to  the  handle  of  a  wash-stand  or  bureau  drawer.  Sit 
down  before  it  with  a  towel  spread  on  your  lap,  and  holding 
the  other  end  of  the  silk  tightly  in  your  left  hand,  take  the 
comb  in  your  right  and  pass  it  hard  and  carefully  along  the 
thread,  which  must  be  made  to  go  in  between  all  the  teeth 
separately,  so  as  to  remove  or  scrape  down  all  the  impurities. 
Then  rub  the  comb  with  a  comb-brush,  or  a  soft  cloth ;  rinse 
it  in  warm  soap-suds,  and  wipe  it  dry. 


CLEANING  BOOTS  AND  SHOES.— First  with  your 
hard  brush  remove  all  the  dirt.    When  they  are  perfectly 


CLEANING   ARTICLES   OF   DRESS,  ETC.  73 


clean,  stir  up  the  blacking  with  a  stick,  put  a  little  on  your 
blacking-brush,  and  spread  it  lightly  and  evenly  over  the 
boots  or  shoes ;  then,  with  your  polishing  brush  go  quickly 
and  lightly  over  thera,  and  in  a  few  minutes  they  will  have 
a  fine  polish.  When  done,  if  you  find  any  brown  spots,  (which 
will  happen  if  the  blacking  has  not  been  put  on  evenly,)  go 
lightly  over  the  dull  places  a  second  time  with  your  blacking- 
brush. 

You  must  have  three  brushes  for  cleaning  boots  and  shoes ; 
and  your  blackiog  should  always  be  of  the  best  kind. 


TO  MAKE  FINE  BLACKING.-For  this  you  must  have 
one  quart  of  sour  beer  or  porter,  (the  latter  is  best:)  eight 
ounces  of  ivory  black:  three  ounces  of  molasses :  one  ounce  of 
powdered  sugar-candy,  or  of  loaf-sugar :  half  an  ounce  of  pow- 
dered gum  arable :  half  an  ounce  of  oil  of  vitriol :  and  one  ounce 
of  sweet  oil.  Having  warmed  the  beer,  dissolve  in  it  the  gum 
arable,  mix  the  molasses  with  the  vitriol  and  sweet  oil,  (the 
vitriol  is  to  give  the  polishing  quality,  and  the  oil  is  to  prevent 
the  vitriol  from  injuring  the  leather,)  add  by  degrees  the  ivory 
black :  rubbing  the  mixture  smoothly  together,  and  seeing  that 
no  lumps  are  left  in  it.  Then  pour  all  the  ingredients  into  a 
jar.  Stir  them  hard,  and  let  the  mixture  stand  three  days, 
stirring  it  with  a  round  stick  three  or  four  times  each  day.  It 
will  then  be  fit  for  use.  If  you  find  it  too  thick,  (so  that  it 
will  not  be  sufficiently  liquid  even  when  warmed  at  the  fire,) 
add  a  little  more  beer.    Put  it  into  bottles,  and  cork  it  tightly. 

BLACKING  THAT  WILL  PRESERVE  THE  LEA- 
THER — Mix  together  four  ounces  of  spermaceti  oil  and 
twelve  ounces  of  molasses.  Add  by  degrees  twelve  ounces 
of  ivory  black,  mixing  it  in  smoothly,  and  rubbing  it  well,  so 


74 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


as  to  leave  no  lumps  ;  then  dilute  it  gradually  with  a  quart  of 
the  best  white  wine  vinegar.  If  you  find  it  too  thick,  add 
more  vinegar ;  stir  it  hard,  and  let  it  stand  in  the  jar  three 
days,  stirring  it  frequently  with  a  round  stick  ;  then  bottle  it 
for  use.  If  still  too  thick,  even  when  warmed  at  the  fire, 
dilute  it  by  stirring  in  a  little  more  vinegar. 

FRENCH  POLISH  FOR  BOOTS,  SHOES,  AND  HAR- 
NESS.— Mix  together  two  pints  of  the  best  vinegar,  and  one 
pint  of  soft  water ;  stir  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  glue 
broken  up  :  half  a  pound  of  logwood  chips  :  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  finely  powdered  indigo :  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  the  best 
soft  soap :  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass.  Put  the 
mixture  over  the  fire,  and  after  it  comes  to  a  boil  continue  the 
boiling  for  ten  minutes  or  more.  Then  strain  the  liquid,  and 
bottle  and  cork  it.    When  cold  it  is  fit  for  use. 

Before  you  apply  this  polish  to  boots,  shoes,  &c.,  remove 
the  dirt  with  a  sponge  and  water.  Then  put  on  the  polish 
with  a  clean  sponge.  Should  you  find  it  too  thick,  hold  it  near 
the  fire  to  warm  a  little,  and  the  heat  will  liquefy  it  suf- 
ficiently. 

WASH  FOR  WHITE  BOOT  TOPS  Mix  together  one 

ounce  of  oxalic  acid:  two  ounces  of  finely  powdered  and  sifted 
pumice-stone :  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar.  Stir 
them  into  a  quart  of  soft  water.  Apply  it  to  the  light-coloured 
tops  of  riding-boots,  to  prevent  their  turning  brownish.  Hav- 
ing first  brushed  off  all  the  dust  and  dirt  from  the  leather,  rub 
on  the  mixture  with  a  clean  hard  brush.  Then  sponge  it  well 
with  cold  water,  all  one  way,  and  put  the  boots  to  dry  gradu- 
ally in  the  sun,  or  at  a  good  distance  from  the  fire.  This 
preparation  may  be  used  also  for  leather  saddles. 


CLEANING  ARTICLES  OF  DRESS,  ETC.  75 

BRUSHING  AND  FOLDING  A  COAT._A  gentle- 
man's  coat  cannot  be  conveniently  freed  from  dust  without  a 
coat-horse,  on  which  to  hang  and  extend  it.  It  should  be 
whipped  hard  with  a  rattan,  taking  care  not  to  strike  the  but- 
tons, lest  they  be  scratched  or  broken.  If  the  coat  is  wet  or 
muddy,  hang  it  to  dry  in  the  sun  or  by  the  fire,  before  you 
attempt  to  beat  or  brush  it.  When  perfectly  dry,  take  the  cloth 
between  your  hand  and  rub  off  the  mud^spots  before  you  put  it 
on  the  coat-horse. 

After  it  has  been  well  beaten  with  the  rattan,  spread  the 
coat  at  its  full  length  on  a  table,  the  back  being  uppermost. 
Take  the  collar  in  your  left  hand  and  a  clothes-brush  in  your 
tight,  and  first  brush  the  back  of  the  collar:  then  between  the 
shoulders :  then  the  sleeves  and  cuffs :  then  the  farthest  lappel 
and  skirt:  and  then  the  near  one,  always  brushing  according  to 
tiie  nap  of  the  cloth,  as  it  runs  towards  the  skirts. 

^Ih  fold  a  coa^.— Having  spread  it,  as  before,  on  a  table, 
double  the  left  sleeve  from  the  elbow  towards  the  collar:  the 
other  the  same  way:  then  the  left  lappel  over  the  sleeve  as  far 
as  the  back  seam,  and  the  other  in  the  same  manner.  Next 
turn  up  the  left  skirt  so  that  the  end  may  touch  the  collar :  do 
the  same  with  the  right  skirt.  Give  it  a  light  brushing  all 
over:  and  then  turn  one-half  the  coat  exactly  even  over  the 
other  half.  Folded  in  this  manner,  the  coat  may  be  put  into  a 
trunk,  and  will  keep  smooth  during  a  journey  of  any  length. 


TO  FOLD  A  LADY'S  DRESS.-Place  the  dress  upon  a 
bed,  spreading  it  out  wide  and  smooth,  with  the  back  part 
uppermost,  and  laying  the  hem  even  at  the  bottom.  Take  the 
two  outer  sides  of  the  skirt,  and  fold  them  over,  so  as  to  make 
them  rather  more  than  meet :  lapping  over  down  the  middle  of 
the  back-breadth.    Then  place  your  left  hand  and  arm  under 


76 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


the  folded  skirt,  and  with  your  right  hand  double  it  somewhat 
more  than  a  quarter  of  a  yard  underneath  the  dress ;  and  next  fold 
forwards  (so  as  to  lie  above  it)  the  upper  part  of  the  skirt  where 
the  gathers  join  the  body ;  leaving  the  back  uppermost.  Then 
turn  back  the  sleeves,  and  if  they  are  long,  fold  them  inwards 
from  the  elbow ;  letting  them  rest  on  the  back  of  the  body, 
the  cuffs  crossing  each  other.  Finally,  take  all  at  once,  in  your 
left  hand,  that  part  of  the  folded  dress  where  the  cuffs,  neck, 
and  upper  fold  of  the  skirt  come  together  and  lie  on  each  other ; 
and  lifting  it  up  carefully,  let  fall  from  under  it  the  lower  part 
of  the  skirt  that  has  been  turned  up  underneath.  When  the 
tail  has  thus  fallen,  spread  it  up  over  the  whole,  smoothly  and 
evenly,  to  preserve  the  body  and  sleeves  from  being  crushed. 
The  dress  may  then  be  laid  in  a  drawer  or  packed  in  a 
trunk,  without  any  danger  of  tumbling.  It  may  be  made  to  fit 
into  a  narrower  space  by  lapping  the  sides  of  the  skirt  still 
more  over  each  other,  when  they  are  folded  upon  the  middle  of 
the  back-breadth. 

After  folding  a  dress  of  white  satin  or  white  silk,  pin  or  sew 
it  up  closely  in  two  large  sheets  of  thick  brown  paper,  one 
below,  and  one  above.  The  turpentine  used  in  the  composi- 
tion of  this  paper  will  tend  to  preserve  the  whiteness  of  the 
satin.  You  may  place  a  blue  paper  between  the  satin  and  the 
brown. 

In  putting  away  dresses  in  a  press  or  commode,  hang 
each  dress  on  two  hooks  or  pegs,  suspending  them  (back  out- 
wards) by  the  shoulders  of  the  sleeve  holes. 

When  travelling,  it  is  well  to  carry  in  your  trunk  a  large 
curtain  of  check,  brown  linen,  or  thick  calico,  with  a  drawing- 
string  run  through  a  case  at  the  top.  By  means  of  this,  you 
can  cover  your  dresses  and  screen  them  from  dust  when  you 
are  obliged  to  hang  them  up  against  the  wall  of  your  chamber. 


CLEANING  ARTICLES  OF  DRESS,  ETC. 


77 


TO  FOLD  A  LADY'S  CLOAK.— In  making  a  cloak,  it 
is  best  to  have  the  cape  so  finished  at  the  neck,  that  it  can 
easily  be  taken  off  when  preparing  to  put  it  away  for  the  sum- 
mer, or  to  pack  it  for  travelling ;  otherwise  it  will  be  impossi- 
ble to  prevent  its  getting  rumpled. 

Having  taken  off  the  cape,  spread  the  cloak  (right  side  out) 
on  a  bed,  and  fold  it  lengthways  all  down  the  back-breadth ; 
first  in  half,  and  then  laying  it  over  so  as  to  make  it  four 
double.  Next  put  your  left  hand  and  arm  tinder  the  whole  of 
the  lower  part,  and  with  your  right  hand  turn  it  up  about  one- 
third  of  the  length  of  the  cloak.  Then  double  the  middle  back- 
ward, and  the  upper  part  forward,  so  as  to  make  three  equal 
crossway  folds,  (all  of  course  four  double,)  leaving  the  gather- 
ed or  neck  part  uppermost,  and  the  collar  out  at  the  top. 
Next  turn  back  the  collar,  (still  doubled  lengthways,)  and 
let  it  rest  on  the  upper,  or  gathered  part  of  the  cloak. 

Take  the  cape  (right  side  out)  and  fold  it  lengthways; 
first  in  half,  and  then  four  double.  Next,  turn  it  backward, 
(cross ways,)  letting  the  upper  or  gathered  half  rest  on  the 
lower.  Then  lay  the  cape  on  the  top  of  the  cloak  ;  and  folded 
in  this  manner  the  whole  will  keep  perfectly  smooth. 

In  putting  away  for  the  summer  a  merino  or  cloth  cloak, 
strew  between  its  folds  an  ounce  or  two  of  camphor,  broken 
into  small  bits ;  and  pin  it  closely  up  in  a  large  linen  cloth. 

A  strong  loop  of  galloon  or  doubled  ribbon,  large  enough  to 
go  over  a  peg  or  hook,  should  always  be  sewed  firmly  under 
the  back  of  the  collar,  exactly  behind,  for  the  purpose  of  hang- 
ing up  the  cloak  when  in  daily  use. 


78 


REMOVING  STAINS,  GREASE,  &c. 

TO  REMOVE  STAINS  OF  WINE  OR  FRUIT  FROM 
TABLE  LINEN. — A  wine  stain  may  sometimes  be  removed 
by  rubbing  it  (while  wet)  with  common  salt.  It  is  said,  also, 
that  sherry  wine  poured  immediately  on  a  place  where  port 
wine  has  been  spilled,  will  prevent  its  leaving  a  stain.  A  cer- 
tain way  of  extracting  fruit  or  wine  stains  from  table-linen  is 
to  tie  up  some  cream  of  tartar  in  the  stained  part,  (so  as  to  form 
a  sort  of  bag,)  and  then  to  put  the  linen  into  a  lather  of  soap 
and  cold  water,  and  boil  it  a  while.  Then  transfer  it  wet  to  a 
lukewarm  suds,  wash  and  rinse  it  well,  and  dry  and  iron  it.  The 
stains  will  disappear  during  the  process. 

Another  way,  is  to  mix,  in  equal  quantities,  soft  soap,  slacked 
lime,  and  pearl-ash.  Rub  the  stain  witK  this  preparation,  and 
expose  the  linen  to  the  sun  with  the  mixture  plastered  on  it. 
If  necessary,  repeat  the  application.  As  soon  as  the  stain  has 
disappeared,  wash  out  the  linen  immediately,  as  it  will  be 
injured  if  the  mixture  is  left  in  it. 

A  small  stain  will  sometimes  disappear  by  wetting  the  spot 
with  cold  water,  and  holding  over  it,  at  a  safe  distance,  a  lighted 
brimstone  match.  It  may  be  necessary  to  repeat  it  with  a 
second  and  third  match. 

You  may  also  remove  a  small  stain,  by  stretching  that  part 
of  the  linen  over  the  top  of  a  mug  of  hot  water,  and  rubbing 
on  with  your  finger,  some  oxalic  acid  or  some  cream  of  tartar, 
or  the  mixture  of  both  that  is  sold  as  salt  of  lemon.  Then 
wash  it  out  immediately. 

Some  stains  will  disappear  by  wetting  them  with  warm 
water,  and  rubbing  on  magnesia. 


STAINS,  GREASE,  ETC. 


79 


TO  REMOVE  FRUIT  STAINS  FROM  SILK.— The 
stain  of  sweetmeats  or  syrup  may  generally  be  removed  from 
silk  or  merino  with  very  little  trouble  if  done  immediately.  It 
is  merely  to  wipe  the  spot  with  the  corner  of  a  soft  clean  linen 
(an  old  napkin  or  a  handkerchief )  dipped  in  cold  water;  re- 
peating it  till  the  stain  is  erased,  and  taking  care  not  to  rub 
crossways  of  the  stuff,  lest  you  should  fray  it.  The  sugar  in 
sweetmeats  neutralizes  the  acid,  and  causes  the  stain  to  come 
out  more  easily  than  that  of  raw  fruit.  We  know  an  instance 
when,  by  a  strange  accident,  the  crown  of  a  Leghorn  hat  was 
covered  with  the  syrup  of  preserved  plumbs.  By  wiping  it, 
immediately,  with  a  clean  wet  napkin,  not  the  slightest  stain 
was  left. 

Fruit  stains  on  silk  may  sometimes  be  removed,  by  wetting 
them  with  hartshorn  diluted  with  a  little  water,  repeating  the 
application  several  times.  When  it  fails,  it  is  owing  to  some 
peculiarity  in  the  dye  of  the  silk,  but  it  is  always  worth  a  trial. 
It  will  generally  take  off  the  reddish  marks  left  on  blue-black 
silks,  by  wine,  tea,  or  lemonade.  If  the  hartshorn  does  not 
succeed,  and  the  silk  is  black,  nothing  better  can  be  done  than 
to  cover  these  red  marks  with  ink  laid  on  with  a  large  camel's 
hair  brush. 


TO  RESTORE  BLACK  SILK  SLEEVES.— When  the 
sleeves  of  a  black  silk  dress  have  been  stained  by  perspiration 
in  warm  weather,  mix  in  a  large  cup,  equal  quantities  of  strong 
spirits  of  hartshorn,  and  soft  water.  Dip  a  clean  sponge  into 
this  liquid,  and  with  it  go  carefully  over  the  sleeves,  first 
spreading  them  out  on  a  table.  Then  dry  them;  and  if  the 
colour  is  not  restored,  repeat  the  process,  making  the  mixture 
a  little  stronger  of  hartshorn.    Afterwards  iron  them. 

This  application  of  hartshorn  and  water  will  generally 


80 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


remove  the  reddish  stains  by  which  black  silk  sleeves  are  so 
frequently  disfigured  in  sunnmer ;  and  will  much  improve  their 
appearance,  even  if  it  does  not  restore  them  exactly  to  the 
original  black. 

If  you  can  take  the  sleeves  out  of  the  dress,  or  indeed  rip 
ihem  all  apart,  you  will  be  able  to  sponge  them  with  much 
convenience  and  efficacy. 

This  application  will  frequently  remove  stains  of  tea,  lemon- 
juice,  &c.,  from  coloured  silks. 

What  is  called  blue-black  silk,  is  much  more  liable  to  stain 
than  that  which  is  jet-black.    India  silks  rarely  stain  at  all. 


TO  EXTRACT  GREASE  FROM  A  SILK  OR  WORS- 
TED DRESS. — Small  grease-spots  on  a  dress  that  cannot  be 
washed,  may  frequently  be  removed  by  the  immediate  applica- 
tion of  the  comer  of  a  fine  napkin,  wetted  in  cold  water,  and 
rubbed  on  the  straightway  of  the  texture ;  changing  several 
times  to  a  clean  corner  dipped  in  fresh  water.  This  also,  if 
done  immediately,  will  frequently  take  out  the  stain  of  sweet- 
meats or  any  very  sweet  thing  dropped  on  a  dress.  A  piece 
of  pin-paper  rolled  up  and  rubbed  with  the  rough  end,  on  the 
wrong  side  of  a  fresh  grease-spot,  will  often  remove  the  blem- 
ish from  silk.  Fine  French  chalk  scraped  to  powder  and 
rubbed  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  spot,  brushing  it  off  in  about 
an  hour,  and  repeating  the  application,  is  another  remedy  for 
accidental  grease.  But  the  most  efficacious  is  to  scrape  down 
some  of  a  Wilmington  clay  ball,  (to  be  obtained  for  a  trifle  at 
the  drug-stores,)  and  to  rub  the  powder  on  the  wrong  side 
of  the  grease-spot.  In  an  hour  or  two  hours,  rub^  off  the 
powder,  and  repeat  the  application.  We  have  never  known 
it  fail. 


STAINS,  GREASE,  ETC. 


81 


TO  REMOVE  SPOTS  OF  TAR,  PITCH,  OR  TUR- 
PENTINE.— Carefully  scrape  off  as  much  of  it  as  you  can ; 
next,  wet  the  place  thoroughly  with  good  salad  oil,  and  let  it 
rest  till  next  day.  Then  (if  linen  or  cotton)  wash  it  out  in 
strong  warm  soap-suds ;  if  woollen  or  silk,  rub  on  some  ether 
or  spirits  of  wine  to  take  out  the  grease. 

If  the  stain  is  of  tar,  you  may  remove  it  (after  it  has  been 
scraped  and  wiped)  by  using  cold  tallow,  instead  of  sweet  oil. 
Take  a  small  lump  of  good  tallow,  rub  and  press  it  well  on 
the  tar  spot,  and  leave  it  sticking  there  till  next  day.  Then 
proceed  as  above. 

TO  EXTRACT  LAMP  OIL  FROM  A  DRESS.— If 
lamp  oil  is  spilled  on  a  dress  that  will  not  be  injured  by  wetting, 
lay  it  immediately  in  a  small  tub  of  cold  water.  A  portion  of 
the  oil  will  shortly  be  seen  to  rise  to  the  surface ;  then  pour  off 
the  water,  replace  it  with  fresh,  and  still  more  oil  will  be  seen 
floating  on  the  top.  Again  pour  off  the  water,  and  fill  the  tub 
anew ;  repeating  the  process  till  no  more  oil  can  be  discovered 
6n  the  surface.  Then  take  out  the  dress,  wring  it  well,  and 
dry  and  iron  it.  No  washing  is  necessary.  We  know  an  in- 
stance of  a  lamp  with  its  whole  contents,  being  overset  into 
the  lap  of  a  young  lady,  and  by  immediately  resorting  to  the 
above-mentioned  mode  of  extracting  the  oil  from  her  new  and 
very  handsome  dress  of  pink  French  gingham,  she  appeared 
in  it  next  day  with  its  beauty  and  colour  untarnished,  and  no 
vestige  of  the  accident  in  the  slightest  degree  apparent. 

If  lamp  oil  or  any  other  grease  is  spilled  on  a  white  dress, 
it  can  of  course  be  eradicated  by  washing  and  boiling  in  the 
usual  manner. 

To  take  lamp  oil  from  a  silk  dress,  or  any  one  that  should 
not  be  wetted,  nothing  is  better  than  to  turn  the  gown  on  the 


82  THEHOUSEBOOK. 

wrong  side,  and  cover  the  place  with  powdered  Wilmington 
clay ;  rub  it  on  with  j'^our  finger  the  straight  way  of  the  threads, 
to  prevent  the  silk  from  fraying.  At  the  end  of  an  hour,  brush 
off  the  clay,  and  put  on  some  fresh.  By  repeating  the  appli- 
cation a  few  times,  the  oil  will  disappear. 

TO  TAKE  LAMP  OIL  OUT  OF  A  SOFA,  &c.— Cover 
the  spot,  however  large,  with  powdered  or  crumbled  Wilming- 
ton clay.  Then  pin  down  over  the  place  a  sheet  of  soft  thin 
paper,  (blotting-paper,  for  instance,)  and  let  it  rest  several  hours. 
Then  brush  it  off,  and  renew  the  clay  and  the  paper.  By  re- 
peating the  application  the  oil  will  be  entirely  extracted.  We 
have  known  this  remedy  to  take  out  all  traces  of  oil  from  a  crim- 
son damask  sofa,  over  which  a  lamp  had  leaked  so  as  to  leave 
a  spot  as  large  as  a  dessert  plate. 

The  same  process  will  take  out  oil  or  other  grease  from  a 
carpet.  If  Wilmington  clay  cannot  readily  be  obtained,  (it  is 
well  to  keep  a  supply  of  it  always  in  the  house,)  mix  together 
in  equal  quantities,  ox-gall  and  powdered  fuller's  earth  or  pot- 
ter's clay,  (for  instance,  a  table-spoonful  of  each ;)  dilute  the 
mixture  with  water  sufficient  to  wash  the  grease-spot  repeatedly, 
rubbing  it  on  hard.  While  it  is  drying,  pin  a  thin  paper  closely 
over  it,  to  prevent  the  dust  from  sticking  to  the  place.  When 
the  grease  is  all  out,  wash  the  spot  with  cold  water. 

If  the  accident  has  happened  to  a  table-cover,  hearth-rug,  or 
any  thing  that  can  be  hung  out,  it  is  best  to  dry  it  in  the 
open  air. 

TO  EXTRACT  LAMP  OIL  FROM  A  FLOOR.— Take 
immediately  some  fuller's  earth,  (which  you  can  procure  for  a 
trifle  at  any  pottery,  also  at  the  grocery  and  drug  stores,)  and 
scrape  it  to  powder  with  a  knife.    Pour  some  warm  water  on 


STAINS,  GREASE,  ETC. 


83 


the  boards  that  are  greased  with  the  oil,  and  then  spread  on  it 
the  fuller's  earth  ;  mixing  it  into  a  paste,  and  plastering  it  on 
with  a  small  flat  stick.  If  you  spread  it  on  with  a  knife,  the 
floor  will  be  stained  with  iron  mould.  Let  it  remain  thus  two 
days.  Then  scrape  off  the  paste,  and  renew  the  application 
Avith  more  warm  water  and  fresh  potter's  clay.  Two  days 
after,  repeat  it  again,  and  persist  till  the  oil  is  entirely  re- 
moved. Then  let  the  glace  be  scrubbed  with  soap  and  water 
in  the  usual  manner. 


TO  TAKE  OUT  STOVE-PIPE  STAINS,  OR  SOOT 
FROM  A  FLOOR — Wash  the  place  with  sulphuric  acid' 
very  much  diluted  with  water.  If  you  find  that  the  stain  does 
not  come  out,  add  a  very  little  more  of  the  sulphuric  acid,  to 
make  the  mixture  somewhat  strono-er. 

I  ^ 

TO  TAKE  LAMP  OIL  OUT  OF  A  CARPET.-Loosen 
the  carpet,  and  turn  up  the  part  that  is  greased.  Rub  the  floor 
underneath  with  finely  powdered  pipe-clay,  or  with  scraped 
Wilmington  clay.  After  it  has  lain  two  or  three  hours,  brush 
it  off,  and  repeat  the  clay  till  all  the  grease  is  extracted.  In 
the  mean  time,  (having  laid  a  piece  of  thick  paper  between  the 
greasy  part  of  the  carpet  and  that  which  is  clean,)  cover  the 
oil-spot  with  the  pulverized  clay,  and  pin  a  piece  of  blotting- 
paper  over  it.  Let  it  rest  two  or  three  hours,  and  then  repeat 
the  application.  By  persevering,  you  will  succeed  in  extract- 
ing the  oil  both  from  the  floor  and  carpet.  The  same  remedy 
will  remove  any  other  grease. 


TO  EXTRACT  GREASE-SPOTS  FROM  BOOKS  OR 
PAPERS.— First  you  must  gently  warm  the  greased  or  spot- 
ted part  of  the  book  or  paper,  and  then  press  on  it  bits  of  blot- 


84 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


ting-paper,  one  after  another,  so  as  to  absorb  as  much  of  the 
grease  as  possible.  If  the  grease  is  fresh,  the  blotting-paper 
■will  be  very  serviceable.  Have  ready  some  fine  clear  essen- 
tial oil  of  turpentine,  heated  almost  to  a  boiling  state ;  warm 
the  greased  leaf  a  little,  and  then  with  a  soft  clean  brush 
dipped  in  the  heated  turpentine,  wet  both  sides  of  the  spotted 
part.  By  repeating  this  application  the  grease  will  be  ex- 
tracted. Lastly,  with  another  brush  dipped  in  rectified  spirits 
of  wine  go  over  the  place,  and  the  grease  will  no  longer 
appear,  neither  will  the  paper  be  discoloured. 

It  were  well  to  finish  by  pressing  the  paper  all  over  with  a 
moderately  heated  iron,  laying  a  sheet  of  tissue  paper  between. 


TO  REMOVE  GREASE  FROM  WALL-PAPER.— 
Scrape  some  Wilmington  clay  to  |^owder ;  wet  it  with  a  little 
cold  water  mixed  with  ox-gall,  and  plaster  it  on  the  grease- 
spots.  Pin  a  blotting-paper  carefully  over  it.  Let  it  rest  two 
or  three  hours,  then  brush  it  olF  and  renew  the  application  : 
repeat  it  till  the  grease  disappears. 

If  you  have  no  Wilmington  clay,  you  may  substitute 
magnesia. 

TO  TAKE  OUT  PAINT  FROM  A  DRESS.— After  a 
paint-spot  has  dried,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  remove  it. 
When  fresh,  (having  wiped  off  as  much  as  you  can,)  it  may  b  e 
taken  out  by  repeated  applications  of  spirits  of  turpentine  or  of 
spirits  of  wine,  rubbed  on  with  a  soft  rag  or  a  flannel.  Ether 
also  will  efface  it,  if  applied  immediately.  If  the  paint  has 
been  allowed  to  harden,  nothing  will  take  it  off  but  spirits  of 
turpentine,  rubbed  on  with  perseverance. 


STAINS,  GREASE,  ETC. 


85 


TO  TAKE  FRESH  PAINT  OUT  OF  A  COAT.— Take 
immediately  a  bit  of  cloth  and  rub  the  wrong  side  of  it  on  the 
paint-spot.  If  no  other  cloth  is  convenient,  part  of  the  inside 
of  the  coat-skirt  will  do.  This  simple  application  will  gene- 
rally remove  the  paint  when  quite  fresh.  Otherwise  rub  on 
with  your  finger  some  ether,  or  dip  a  bit  of  sponge  or  flannel 
in  the  ether,  and  wipe  the  paint-spot  with  it  as  hard  as 
possible. 

TO  TAKE  WAX  OUT  OF  CLOTH.— Hold  a  red-hot 
iron  (a  poker,  for  instance)  within  an  inch  or  two  of  the  cloth 
till  the  wax  has  disappeared.  Then  rub  the  cloth  with  some 
soft  clean  rag. 

Wax  droppings  may  be  removed  in  the  same  manner  from 
velvet. 


TO  TAKE  OUT  SPERMACETI.— First  scrape  off  the 
drops  of  spermaceti  nicely  with  a  knife.  Then  lay  a  thin  soft 
paper  over  them,  and  press  on  a  warm  iron  which  must  not  be 
hot  enough  to  injure  the  colour.  Afterwards  rub  the  place 
with  spirits  of  wine. 

If  the  spermaceti  has  fallen  on  an  article  of  which  you  can 
conveniently  get  at  the  wrong  side,  first  scrape  off  as  much  of 
the  grease  as  stands  on  the  surface,  then  rub  the  under-side  of 
the  spot  with  Wilmington  clay-ball  scraped  to  powder,  and  let 
it  rest  for  an  hour  or  two :  then  repeat  the  application. 


TO  REMOVE  WATER  STAINS  FROM  BLACK 
CRAPE. — When  a  drop  of  water  falls  on  a  black  crape  veil 
or  collar,  it  leaves  a  conspicuous  white  mark.  To  obliterate 
this,  spread  the  crape  on  a  table,  (laying  on  it  a  large  book  or 
a  paper-weight  to  keep  it  steady,)  and  place  underneath  the 
8 


86 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Stain  a  piece  of  old  black  silk.  With  a  large  camel's  hair 
brush  dipped  in  common  ink,  go  over  the  stain ;  and  then  wipe 
off  the  ink  with  a  little  bit  of  old  soft  silk.  It  will  dry  im- 
mediately, and  the  white  mark  will  be  seen  no  more. 


TO  REMOVE  DUST  OR  MUD  FROM  A  DRESS.— 
Take  a  small  broom-corn  whisk  and  (having  shaken  the 
dress)  brush  it  carefully  between  the  pleats  or  gathers.  If 
there  is  mud  on  the  skirt,  rub  it  off  with  a  piece  of  stout 
worsted  stuff  formed  into  a  roll ;  or  with  a  clean  coarse  towel. 
A  plush-block  is  an  excellent  thing  for  brushing  silk  or  merino 
dresses.  To  make  it,  get  a  small  square  block  of  wood,  and 
sew  tightly  all  over  it  (in  the  manner  of  a  pincushion)  a 
covering  of  saddler's  plush. 


TO  TAKE  INK  OUT  OF  A  COLOURED  TABLE- 
COVER. — For  a  large  ink-stain,  dissolve  a  tea-spoonful  of 
oxalic  acid,  in  a  tea-cup  of  hot  water.  Pour  it  into  a  bowl, 
and  dip  into  it  the  part  that  is  stained  by  the  ink ;  rubbing  it 
well  in  the  solution.  If  the  ink  does  not  come  out  well,  mix 
some  fresh  oxalic  acid  and  hot  water,  and  add  it  to  the  first. 
Rub  the  stain  a  while  longer ;  and  when  the  ink  has  all  come 
out,  dip  the  part  immediately  in  water  that  is  warm  but  not 
hot.  Rub  it  well  in  the  water,  to  get  the  oxalic  acid  entirely 
out ;  for  if  allowed  to  remain  in,  it  will  corrode  the  article. 
Then  wash  the  table-cover,  directly,  in  the  manner  described 
in  a  former  receipt. 

If  these  directions  are  carefully  followed,  the  ink  will  be 
extracted,  and  the  colours  of  the  table-cloth  not  in  the  least 
disturbed. 

If  ink  is  spilled  on  white  clothes,  apply  the  oxalic  acid,  as 
above,  and  then  put  the  article  at  once  into  the  boil.  This 


STAINS,  GREASE,  ETC. 


87 


application  of  oxalic  acid,  used  very  carefully,  will  also  remove 
ink  spots  from  coloured  dresses.  And  it  will  take  out  stains 
of  tea,  even  from  a  buff-coloured  article,  on  which  a  tea-stain 
has  turned  blackish. 

Oxalic  acid  and  hot  water  will  also  remove  iron-mould. 
After  applying  it  according  to  the  above  directions,  place  the 
article  in  the  hot  sun  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Though  a  powder,  it  is  best  to  keep  oxalic  acid  in  a  bottle 
tightly  covered;  taking  care  that  the  word  "Poison"  is  written 
conspicuously  on  the  label.  The  mistress  of  the  family  should 
not  allow  it  to  go  out  of  her  own  possession. 


TO  REMOVE  INK-SPOTS  FROM  WHITE  CLOTHES. 
— This  must  be  done  before  the  clothes  are  washed.  Pick 
some  tallow  from  the  bottom  of  a  clean  mould  candle.  Rub 
it  hard  on  the  ink-spots,  and  leave  it  sticking  there  in  bits,  till 
next  day,  or  longer.  Then  let  the  article  be  washed  and  boiled ; 
and  if  it  is  merely  common  ink,  the  stain  will  entirely  disap- 
pear. Of  course,  this  remedy  can  only  be  used  for  white 
things,  as  coloured  clothes  cannot  be  boiled  without  entirely 
fading  them.  We  know  it  to  be  efficacious.  The  tallow  must 
be  rubbed  on  quite  cold. 


TO  TAKE  OUT  MARKING  INK.— \Vet  some  chloride 
of  lime  with  warm  water,  and  rub  it  on  the  mark  with  your 
finger;  repeating  it  till  the  ink  disappears.  Wash  out  the 
place  immediately ;  as,  if  left  in,  the  chloride  of  lime  will 
injure  the  linen.  Oxalic  acid  or  salt  of  sorrel,  rubbed  on  after 
the  mark  has  been  wetted  with  warm  water,  will  also  take  it  out. 


TO  REMOVE  FRESH  INK  FROM  A  CARPET.— As 
soon  as  the  ink  has  been  spilled,  take  up  as  much  as  you  can 


88 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


with  a  spoon,  and  then  pour  on  cold  water  repeatedly,  still 
taking  up  the  liquid  with  the  spoon.  Next,  rub  the  place  with 
a  little  wet  oxalic  acid  or  salt  of  sorrel,  and  wash  it  off  imme- 
diately with  cold  water. 

TO  TAKE  INK  OUT  OF  UNPAINTED  WOOD.— 
When  a  desk  or  bench  or  floor  is  stained  with  ink,  cut  a  lemon 
or  a  lime  in  half,  and  rub  the  spots  with  it.  Then  wash  it  off 
with  warm  water. 

Vinegar  is  a  tolerable  substitute  for  lemon-juice,  in  removing 
ink-stains  from  boards. 

TO  TAKE  INK  OUT  OF  MAHOGANY — Mix  a  small 
tea-spoonful  of  oil  of  vitriol  with  a  large  table-spoonful  of  soft 
water ;  dip  into  it  a  bit  of  clean  flannel,  and  rub  it  on  the  ink- 
spots  lightly  and  quickly,  till  they  disaippear.  Then  wash  it 
off  with  a  little  milk,  and  rub  it  dry. 

Or  you  may  wet  a  little  salt  of  tartar  or  oxalic  acid  and  rub 
it  on  the  ink-spot,  washing  it  off  immediately  after  the  ink  has 
disappeared. 

TO  REMOVE  HEAT  MARKS  FROM  A  TABLE.— 

If  a  whitish  mark  is  left  on  a  table  by  carelessly  setting  on  it 
a  pitcher  of  boiling  water,  or  a  hot  dish,  pour  some  lamp  oil 
on  the  spot,  and  rub  it  hard  with  a  soft  cloth.  Then  pour  on 
a  little  spirits  of  wine  or  Cologne  water,  and  rub  it  dry  with 
another  soft  cloth.  The  white  mark  will  thus  disappear,  and 
the  table  look  as  well  as  ever. 


TO  RESTORE  MILDEWED  LINEN.— Clothes  some- 
times become  mildewed  from  remaining  damp  too  long  before 
they  are  ironed,  or  from  other  causes.    If  they  are  clothes  that 


STAINS,  GREASE,  ETC. 


89 


have  no  dye  or  colouring  about  them,  let  them  be  dipped  in 
very  sour  buttermilk,  and  then  spread  on  the  grass  in  the  sun. 
When  they  are  dry,  wash  out  the  buttermilk  in  cold  water, 
and  repeat  the  process  till  the  mildew  disappears. 

Another  way  of  removing  mildew,  is  to  soap  the  spots,  and 
then,  while  wet,  to  cover  them  with  fine  chalk  scraped  to  pow- 
der. Rub  it  well  in,  and  then  expose  the  article  to  the  sun. 
By  repeating  the  application  the  mildew  will  disappear. 

Another  way,  is  to  mix  some  soft  soap  with  powdered 
starch,  adding  half  as  much  salt  as  you  have  of  the  starch,  and 
also  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  With  this  mixture  cover  the  mildew 
on  both  sides,  and  lay  the  article  on  the  grass ;  keeping  it  out 
night  and  day  till  the  stain  disappears. 

TO  RESTORE  SCORCHED  LINEN.— If  linen  has  been 
scorched  in  ironing,  and  the  mark  did  not  go  entirely  through 
so  as  to  damage  the  texture,  it  may  be  removed  by  the  follow- 
ing process : — Take  two  onions,  peel  them,  slice  them,  and 
extract  the  juice  by  squeezing  or  pounding.  Then  cut  up  half 
an  ounce  of  white  soap,  and  two  ounces  of  fuller's  earth,  mix 
with  them  the  onion-juice  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil 
this  composition  well :  then  spread  it,  when  cool,  over  the 
scorched  part  of  the  linen,  and  let  it  dry  on.  Afterwards  wash 
out  the  linen. 


TO  WHITEN  LINEN  THAT  HAS  TURNED  YEL- 
LOW.— Cut  up  a  pound  of  fine  white  soap  into  a  gallon  of 
milk,  and  hang  it  over  the  fire  in  a  wash-kettle.  When  the 
soap  has  entirely  melted,  put  in  the  linen,  and  boil  it  half  an 
hour.  Then  take  it  out ;  have  ready  a  lather  of  soap  and  warm 
water ;  wash  the  linen  in  it,  and  then  rinse  it  through  two  cold 
waters,  with  a  very  little  blue  in  the  last. 


90 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


TO  RESTORE  LINEN  THAT  HAS  LONG  BEEN 
STAINED — Rub  the  stains  on  each  side  with  wet  brown 
soap.  Mix  some  starch  to  a  thick  paste  with  cold  water,  and 
spread  it  over  the  soaped  places.  Then  expose  the  linen  to 
the  sun  and  air;  and,  if  the  stains  have  not  disappeared  in 
three  or  four  days,  rub  ofF  the  mixture,  and  repeat  the  process 
with  fresh  soap  and  starch.  Afterwards  dry  it,  wet  it  with 
cold  water,  and  put  it  in  the  wash. 


TO  KEEP  SILK.— Silk  articles  should  not  be  kept  folded 
in  white  paper,  as  the  chloride  of  lime  used  in  bleaching  the 
paper  will  probably  impair  the  colour  of  the  silk.  Brown  or 
blue  paper  is  better:  the  yellowish  smooth  India  paper  is 
best  of  all.  Silk  intended  for  a  dress  should  not  be  kept  in  the 
house  long  before  it  is  made  up,  as  lying  in  the  folds  will  have 
a  tendency  to  impair  its  durability  by  causing  it  to  cut  or  split, 
particularly  if  the  silk  has  been  thickened  by  gum.  We  knew 
an  instance  of  a  very  elegant  and  costly  thread-lace  veil  being 
found  on  its  arrival  from  France  cut  into  squares  (and  therefore 
destroyed)  by  being  folded  over  a  paste-board  card. 

A  white  satin  dress  should  be  pinned  up  in  blue  paper, 
with  coarse  brown  paper  outside,  sewed  together  at  the  edges. 

The  best  way  of  keeping  ribbons  is  to  roll  them  round  the 
blocks  made  for  the  purpose,  and  then  wrap  them  in  soft 
paper.  You  can  easily  obtain  a  few  blocks  from  the  stores 
where  ribbons  are  sold.  The  block  should  be  a  little  wider 
than  the  ribbon,  that  the  edges  may  not  be  injured.  When 
you  have  wound  it  smoothly  round  the  block,  secure  the  end 
of  the  ribbon  with  a  little  minnikin  pin.  A  large  pin  will 
leave  holes,  and  perhaps  green  ones. 

In  rolling  two  pieces  of  ribbon  round  the  same  block,  place 
the  first  end  of  the  second  piece  under  the  last  end  of  the  first 


STAINS,  GREASE,  ETC. 


91 


piece,  otherwise  there  will  be  a  ridge  where  the  two  come 
together.  Take  care,  in  rolling,  not  to  make  the  slightest  crease. 

Never  wrap  silk  or  ribbon,  or  indeed  any  thing  that  is  to  be 
worn  without  washing,  in  a  printed  paper,  as  the  printing  ink 
will  rub  off  and  soil  it. 

TO  CLEAN  WHITE  SATIN  SHOES.— Rub  them 
lengthways  of  the  satin,  with  a  piece  of  new  white  flannel 
dipped  in  spirits  of  wine.  If  slightly  soiled,  you  may  cleein 
them  by  rubbing  with  stale  bread. 

White  satin  shoes  should  be  kept  in  blue  paper  closely 
wrapped,  with  coarse  brown  paper  outside. 

To  keep  your  thin  light  slippers  in  shape,  when  you  put 
them  away,  fold  them  over  lengthways  or  sideways,  and  tie 
the  strings  round  them.  You  should  have  a  covered  box  pur- 
posely for  your  shoes. 

STAIN  MIXTURE. — Take  an  ounce  of  sal-ammoniac,  (or 
hartshorn,)  and  an  ounce  of  salt  of  tartar :  mix  them  well,  put 
them  into  a  pint  of  soft  water,  and  bottle  it  for  use,  keeping  it 
very  tightly  corked.  Pour  a  little  of  this  liquid  into  a  saucer, 
and  wash  in  it  those  parts  of  a  white  article  that  have  been 
stained  with  ink,  mildew,  fruit,  or  red  wine.  When  the  stains 
have  by  this  process  been  removed,  wash  the  article  in  the 
usual  manner. 

Another  stain  mixture  useful  for  removing  ink-spots,  is  to 
dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  oxalic  acid  in  a  pint  of  soft  water; 
then  bottle  and  cork  it  for  use,  shaking  it  well.  To  use  it, 
stretch  the  ink-stain  over  a  bowl  of  hot  water,  and  rub  it  with 
a  sponge  dipped  in  the  oxalic  solution.    Then  wash  and  dry  it. 


CLOTHES  BALLS.— Take  four  ounces  of  fuller's  earth, 
dried  so  as  to  crumble  into  powder,  and  mix  with  it  half  an 


92 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


ounce  of  pearl-ash.  Wet  it  with  a  sufficiency  of  lemon-juice 
to  work  it  into  a  stiff  paste.  Then  form  it  into  balls,  and  dry 
them  in  the  sun,  or  on  the  top  of  a  moderately  warm  stove. 
When  quite  dry,  put  them  away  for  use.  They  will  be  found 
efficacious  in  removing  grease  spots  and  stains  from  articles  pf 
clothing,  first  wetting  the  spot  with  cold  water,  and  then  rub- 
bing on  the  ball ;  afterwards  drying  the  place  in  the  sun  or  by 
the  fire,  and  then  washing  it  off  with  a  sponge  and  clean  water. 

SALT  OF  LEMON.— This  is  the  popular  but  erroneous 
name  of  a  mixture  very  efficacious  in  taking  out  stains  from  linen, 
or  from  the  hands.  To  prepare  it,  pound  together  in  a  mortar, 
equal  quantities  of  oxalic  acid  and  cream  of  tartar,  (say  an 
ounce  of  each,)  mixing  them  thoroughly.  Or  the  druggist  of 
whom  you  buy  the  two  articles,  will  have  them  pounded  for 
you.  Put  it  into  small  boxes,  and  keep  it  closely  covered,  and 
free  from  damp.  When  used,  it  must  be  moistened  with  a 
little  water.  If  your  hands  are  stained  with  ink,  fruit,  or 
indeed  with  any  thing,  dip  them  in  water,  and  then  rub  on  the 
stained  parts  a  little  of  this  powder;  afterwards  washing  it  off 
with  fine  soap. 

A  piece  of  lemon  or  the  half  of  a  lime,  rubbed  on  hard,  will 
also  remove  stains  from  the  hands. 


WILMINGTON  CLAY  BALLS.— These  are  excellent 
for  extracting  grease,  and  may  be  had  in  Philadelphia,  at  most 
of  the  drug-stores,  and  of  Mrs.  Norris,  South  Second  street, 
west  side,  a  few  doors  above  Chesnut.  They  cost  but  a  trifle, 
and  no  house  should  be  without  them.  They  are  made  entirely 
of  a  peculiar  sort  of  clay,  found  at  Wilmington,  Del.;  and  to 
use  them,  they  must  be  scraped  down,  and  the  powder  rubbed 
on  the  grease-spot. 


93 


DOMESTIC  DYES. 


REMARKS. 

All  articles  to  be  dyed  at  home,  should,  if  they  are  not  quite 
new,  be  well  washed  and  boiled,  so  as  to  make  them  perfectly 
clean  before  they  are  put  into  the  dye ;  otherwise  the  colour 
will  be  dull  and  dingy,  and  the  dirt  will  appear  through  it. 
Previous  to  going  into  the  dye-kettle,  they  should  be  immersed 
either  in  lye,  alum-water,  or  plain  water ;  then  well  squeezed 
and  shook  out,  and  put  into  the  dye  wet  all  through ;  otherwise 
the  colour  will  spot  or  run  in  streaks.  If  they  have  been 
originally  of  another  colour,  that  colour  must  be  boiled  out  as 
much  as  possible,  before  they  can  take  the  new  dye  smoothly 
and  evenly.  White  things,  or  those  of  a  very  pale  pink,  or 
pale  blue,  take  a  dark  or  black  dye  much  better  than  when 
their  colour  was  previously  dark. 

If  the  shade  is  not  deep  enough  the  first  time,  dip  them  again 
in  the  dye.  , 

While  the  things  are  in  the  dye-kettle,  keep  them  well 
opened  out,  lifting  them  up  and  down  occasionally,  and  stirring 
them  about  with  a  stick. 

The  dye  for  light  colours  should  be  made  in  earthen,  tin,  or 
brass  vessels,  and  generally  set  with  alum.  Dark  colours 
should  be  boiled  in  iron,  and  usually  set  with  copperas. 

Before  you  put  in  the  article  to  be  dyed,  it  is  best  to  try  the 
colour  upon  a  waste  bit  of  the  same  material ;  or  by  dipping 
in  a  piece  of  white  paper. 


94 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


PINK  DYE.— Take  a  sufficient  quantity  of  flowers  of  the 
bergamot  plant ;  pick  them  clean,  and  boil  them  in  clear  soft 
water ;  making  the  dye  stronger  or  paler  as  you  choose.  When 
well  boiled,  strain  the  liquid,  and  add  to  it  a  few  drops  of 
oil  of  vitriol ;  more  or  less  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  dye. 
There  must  be  just  enough  of  the  vitriol  to  give  the  liquid  a 
slight  acid  taste;  but  if  there  is  too  much,  it  will  injure 
the  texture  of  the  article  to  be  dyed.  This  article  (it  should 
always  be  a  white  one)  must  previously  be  well  washed  in  hot 
soap-suds  to  make  it  perfectly  clean.  Then  rinse  it  in  cold 
water,  squeeze  it,  shake  it  out,  and  put  it  wet  into  the  dye. 
When  it  is  thoroughly  imbued,  rinse  it  in  cold  water.  Lastly, 
dry  and  smooth  it  with  a  stone,  or  with  a  very  cool  iron. 

This  is  a  beautiful  pink  dye  for  white  silk  scarfs,  handker- 
chiefs, &c.  For  those  articles  a  little  gum  arable  water  (for 
instance,  a  table-spoonful  or  more)  should  be  mixed  with  the 
rinsing  water.  The  fringe  at  the  edges  should  be  nicely 
pulled  out  and  shook  while  drying. 

The  bergamot  flowers,  if  carefully  dried  and  put  up  in  white 
papers,  will  answer  very  well  for  the  dye,  at  seasons  when  no 
fresh  ones  are  to  be  had. 


RED. — Having  boiled  in  brass  or  earthen,  two  gallons  of 
clear  soft  water,  half  a  pound  of  wheat  bran,  and  three  ounces 
of  powdered  alum ;  strain  it,  return  it  to  the  kettle,  and  put  in 
hdlf  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  an  ounce  of  cochi- 
neal ;  each  tied  in  a  separate  thin  muslin  bag.  Boil  it  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  dip  in  the  article  to  be  dyed,  and 
proceed  in  the  usual  manner. 

If  you  wish  a  deeper  red,  use  a  smaller  proportion  of  water, 
and  more  of  the  cochineal. 


DOMESTIC  DYES. 


95 


<  YELLOW. — Procure  from  a  drug  store,  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  temerech  or  turmeric  powder;  tie  it  up  in  a  muslin  rag,  and 
boil  it  in  alum-water,  or  in  skim  milk.  Have  ready  the  article 
to  be  dyed,  (which,  if  not  quite  new,  must  be  made  perfectly 
clean  by  washing.)  When  the  turmeric  liquid  has  arrived  at 
the  tinge  you  wish,  take  out  the  bag,  put  in  the  article,  (which 
must  be  previously  wet  thoroughly,)  and  give  it  a  boil.  Then 
squeeze  it  out,  and  stretch,  dry,  and  iron  it  as  quickly  as 
possible. 

Turmeric  will  give  a  beautiful  yellow  colour  to  white  silk 
handkerchiefs,  scarfs,  or  ribbons.  Also  to  muslin  for  curtain- 
linings  ;  and  to  the  thin  muslin  used  for  covering  gilt  frames, 
lamps,  &c.,  in  the  summer. 

The  flowers  of  the  French  marigold,  picked  to  pieces,  and 
boiled  with  a  bit  of  alum,  will  dye  a  fine  lemon  yellow.  The 
article  to  be  dyed  must  be  white,  washed  very  clean,  and  then 
steeped  in  cold  water.  After  the  marigold  dye  has  been  boiled 
and  strained,  put  the  article  in  wet,  and  boil  it  till  well  coloured. 

Another  yellow  may  be  dyed,  by  tying  some  saffron  in  a  thin 
muslin  bag,  and  boiling  it  in  alum  water,  in  an  earthen  vessel. 
Then  strain  it,  and  when  cool,  put  in  the  article. 

Peach  leaves  will  make  a  yellow  dye.    Also  onion  skins. 

BLUE.— Boil  gently  together  in  clear  soft  water,  a  pound 
of  Avoad,  half  a  pound  of  indigo,  and  two  ounces  of  alum. 
Then  strain  it,  and  add  an  ounce  of  pyroligneous  acid  oi 
vinegar  of  wood.  Take  the  article  to  be  dyed,  (which  must 
be  white,)  and  if  dirty,  wash  it  well.  Then  soak  it  in  clean 
water,  wring  it  very  well,  and  put  it  wet  into  the  dye.  Keep 
it  in  till  you  perceive  that  it  has  thoroughly  taken  the  colour, 
stirring  it  about  with  a  stick.  Then  dry  it,  and  afterwards 
wash  it  out  in  warm  soap-suds. 


93 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


BLUE  COMPOSITION.— This  is  a  compound  of  indigo 
cjnd  vitriol,  and  can  be  obtained  at  the  druggists  in  a  phial. 
The  cost  is  twelve  cents  an  ounce,  and  it  colours  silk  a  fine 
blue ;  but  must  not  be  used  for  cotton.  The  proportion  for  a 
light  blue,  is  ten  or  fifteen  drops  of  this  composition,  mixed  in 
a  quart  of  warm  soft  water,  and  then  stirred  and  strained.  If 
you  wish  it  darker,  add  more  of  the  blue  compound.  Immerse 
in  it  the  article  to  be  dyed,  (first  wetting  it,)  and  when  it  has 
taken  well,  wring  it  out,  and  dry  it.  When  quite  dry,  wash 
it  in  cool  soap-suds,  and  dry  it  again.  This  will  prevent  its 
being  injured  by  the  vitriol. 

DARK  BLUE. — Boil  four  ounces  of  copperas  in  two  gal- 
lons of  water.  Having  wetted  the  article,  dip  it  into  the  cop- 
peras dye  while  hot.  Then  rinse  it  through  cold  water.  Have 
ready  a  strong  decoction  of  logwood  boiled  and  strained,  and 
dip  the  article  through  that  till  it  has  taken  a  fine  dark  blue. 
Dry  it,  and  then  wash  it  in  soap-suds. 

GREEN. — Make  first  a  fine  yellow  dye  of  turmeric,  tied  up  in 
thin  muslin,  and  boiled  in  soft  water,  with  some  pieces  of  alum. 
Having  thoroughly  wet  the  article  to  be  dyed,  put  it  into  the 
dye,  (^after  it  has  become  tepid  or  lukewarm,)  and  stir  it  about 
till  it  has  taken.  Then  open  it  out,  and  dry  it.  Afterwards 
stir  into  the  yellow  dye  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  druggist's 
blue  indigo-composition,  (a  little  at  a  time,)  to  make  it  the  tint 
of  green  you  require.  Then  put  into  water  the  article  that  is 
already  dyed  yellow ;  and  when  well  soaked,  squeeze  it  out, 
and  put  it  wet  into  the  green  dye.  When  it  has  taken  the 
green  thoroughly,  (perhaps  in  fifteen  minutes,)  dry  it,  and 
smooth  it  with  a  stone.    A  warm  iron  will  injure  the  colour. 

This  dye  must  not  be  used  for  cotton. 


DOMESTIC  DYES. 


97 


A  good  proportion  of  the  ingredients  for  a  bright  green  dye, 
is  two  ounces  of  turmeric  to  four  gallons  of  water,  with  four 
ounces  of  pulverized  alum ;  and  for  the  blueing,  half  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  indigo  compound.  For  a  more  yellowish 
green,  use  more  turmeric ;  for  a  more  blueish,  a  larger  pro- 
portion of  the  indigo  mixture. 

For  a  dark  or  bottle  green,  take  twelve  ounces  of  fustic,  and 
three  ounces  of  bruised  alum,  and  boil  them  in  three  gallons 
of  water.  Then  stir  in  (by  degrees)  the  indigo  composition, 
till  you  get  the  colour  as  dark  as  you  wish. 


AN  EXCELLENT  BUFF  DYE— For  about  twelve 
yards  of  white  cotton  or  thick  muslin,  prepare  in  a  brass  kettle 
two  gallons  of  soft  water,  into  which  put  a  large  tea-cupful 
of  pot-ash  sewed  up  in  a  flannel  bag.  After  the  pot-ash  has 
entirely  dissolved  in  the  water,  hang  the  kettle  over  the  fire, 
and  let  it  become  scalding  hot ;  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil. 
When  almost  at  the  boiling  point,  take  out  the  pot-ash  b?ig, 
and  put  in  an  ounce  of  anatto  or  aronetta-powder,  sewed  up  in 
a  linen  bag.  Let  the  anatto  bag  simmer  in  the  water  about 
half  an  hour,  till  the  kettle  is  almost  at  a  boil.  Then  have 
ready  the  article,  which  must  be  previously  washed  in  a  strong^ 
warm  pot-ash  water.  Remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire ;  put 
into  it  the  wet  muslin  that  has  been  washed  in  the  pot-ash 
water,  and  work  it  about  in  the  dye ;  rinsing  it  up  and  down, 
till  the  whole  of  it  has  taken  the  colour  thoroughly  and  «vealy. 
Do  not  let  it  boil,  as  that  may  injure  the  tint.  Then  wring 
it  well,  open  and  shake  it,  stretch  it  evenly,  and  hang  it  out  to 
dry  immediately.  After  it  has  entirely  dried,  wash  it  well  in 
soap-suds,  hang  it  out  again,  and  iron  it  while  damp. 

This  will  be  found  a  very  handsome  colour  for  linings,  bed- 
spreads, vallances,  and  common  curtains.  For  the  latter 
9 


98 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


purpose,  it  should  have  a  fringe  or  a  binding  of  black,  dark- 
green,  brown,  purple,  or  crimson.  Aronetta  alone,  makes  a 
well  known  salmon  colour;  but  this  addition  of  pot-ash  gives 
it  a  beautiful  bright  buff  tint,  such  as  is  generally  called  bird  of 
paradise  colour.  It  will  bear  repeated  washings,  without 
fading. 

For  a  more  yellowish  tinge,  use  a  larger  portion  of  pot-ash ; 
for  a  more  reddish,  increase  the  quantity  of  aronetta. 

This  dye  may  be  made  of  a  deep  nankeen  colour,  if 
desired. 


COMMON  ARONETTA  DYE.— Tie  up  some  aronetta  or 
anatto  powder  (for  instance,  twelve  cents  worth)  in  a  thin 
muslin  bag,  and  rub  it  into  a  strong  lather,  (good  soft  soap  is 
best  for  this  purpose,)  or  into  weak  lye.  Having  soaked  the 
article  in  cold  water,  wring  it  out,  open  it,  and  boil  it  in  the 
dye.   Then  dry  it  in  the  shade,  and  iron  it. 

This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  twelve  yards  of  thick  muslin, 
which  will  be  found  very  useful  for  linings  and  other 
purposes. 

The  proper  name  of  this  dye-stuif  is  anatto  or  arnotto,  but 
its  popular  appellation  is  aronetta. 

FINE  SALMON  COLOUR.— Make  a  strong  lather  with 
very  good  soap.  Tie  up  in  a  thin  muslin  bag  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  anatto  or  aronetta  powder,  (not  less  than  six  cents 
worth,)  and  rub  it  into  the  lather :  then  give  it  a  boil  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Having  wet  the  article  to  be  dyed  very 
thoroughly  with  alum-water,  put  it  into  the  dye,  and  let  it  boil 
for  half  an  hour  or  more,  in  proportion  to  its  size  and  thickness. 
Ilien  take  it  out,  dry,  and  iron  it. 

This  quantity  will  dye  si*  yards  of  silk  or  muslin. 


DOMESTIC  DYES. 


90 


NANKEEN  COLOUR— Take  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
birch  bark,  split  it  small,  and  tie  it  up  in  a  thin  cotton  cloth. 
Put  it  into  a  brass  or  tin  kettle  with  soft  water  and  a  few  bits 
of  alum.  When  it  has  boiled  till  you  gel^the  right  colour,  let 
it  cool  a  little,  and  put  in  the  article  to  be  dyed,  having  first 
wet  it  thoroughly. 


SLATE  COLOUR.— This  may  be  obtained  by  the  very 
simple  process  of  boiling  in  vinegar  with  a  bit  of  alum, 
some  pieces  of  the  thick  purple  paper  that  comes  round  sugar- 
loaves.  Then  strain  it,  and  return  it  to  the  kettle,  which  must 
be  of  iron.  Having  first  boiled  all  the  original  colour  out  of 
the  articles  to  be  dyed  slate,  and  steeped  them  in  cold  water, 
squeeze  them  out,  open  them,  put  them  wet  into  the  new  dye, 
and  boil  them  till  thoroughly  coloured.  Then  dry  them,  and 
wash  them  in  soap-suds. 


BLACK — First,  in  hot  soap-suds  boil  out  as  much  as  pos- 
sible the  previous  colour  of  the  article  to  be  dyed,  and  then 
wash  it  in  soft  water.  Have  ready  a  dye  made  in  the  propor- 
tion of  a  gallon  of  vinegar  to  a  pound  of  ground  logwood, 
chipped  small  and  tied  up  in  a  thin  bag.  Let  it  stand  all 
night.  In  the  morning  add  a  piece  of  copperas  half  the  size 
of  an  egg,  (or  larger,  according  to  the  quantity  of  dye,)  and  boil 
the  whole  for  an  hour;  then  strain  it.  Having  made  the  article 
to  be  dyed  thoroughly  wet  by  soaking  it  in  lukewarm  water, 
squeeze  it,  shake  it  out,  and  immerse  it  in  the  dye ;  boiling  it 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more  in  proportion  to  its  size,  and  stir- 
ring it  about  with  a  stick.  Take  it  out,  dry  it,  wet  it  all 
through  again,  and  give  it  another  boil  in  the  dye.  Repeat 
this  a  third  time.  Afterwards,  to  soften  it  from  the  harshness 
left  by  the  black  dye,  wash  it  in  tepid  soap-suds,  arid  let  it  lie 


100 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


in  the  lather  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Rinse  it  first  in  clear 
water,  and  then  (if  the  article  is  silk)  pass  it  through  a  weak 
gum  arable  water.  Stretch  it  well,  dry  it  in  the  shade,  and 
then  press  it. 

This  dye  will  be  found  useful  for  silk  articles.  A  dress 
must  be  taken  entirely  to  pieces  before  it  is  dyed. 

To  obtain  a  jet  black ;  make  first  a  strong  decoction  of  green 
walnut  husks ;  and  after  it  has  boiled  an  hour,  strain  it,  and 
put  in  the  silk,  which  must  first  be  steeped  in  luke-warm  water. 
Then  take  it  out  from  the  walnut  liquor,  dry  it,  and  having 
soaked  it  in  water  a  second  time,  put  it  into  a  kettle  of  black 
dye  made,  (as  before-mentioned,)  with  logwood,  vinegar,  and 
copperas,  and  proceed  according  to  the  directions. 

CINNAMON  BROWN.— Take  half  a  pound  of  ground 
camwood,  tie  it  in  a  thin  bag,  and  put  it  into  a  brass  or  tin 
kettle  with  two  gallons  of  soft  water.  Boil  it  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Then  strain  it,  and  put  in  the  article,  wet  thoroughly  in 
water.  Dip  it  carefully,  and  repeat  the  dipping  till  it  takes 
the  colour  completely. 

With  the  dye  that  is  left,  you  may  obtain  different  shades 
of  brown  by  adding,  in  small  quantities,  more  or  less  copperas ; 
giving  it  another  boil 

OLIVE  COLOUR  Boil  together  fustic,  and  walnut  or 

yellow-oak  bark.  For  a  bright  olive  use  more  fustic,  for  a  dark 
one  more  walnut  bark.  When  the  liquid  is  well  coloured, 
strain  it,  and  put  in  the  article  wet ;  adding,  for  a  light  tint  a 
little  vitriol ;  for  a  dark  one  a  little  copperas,  to  set  the  colour. 


101 


COUNTRY  MANNER  OF  DYEING 
WOOLORYARN. 


REMARKS, 

All  wool  or  woollen  yarn  should,  before  dyeing,  be  well 
washed  or  scoured  in  strong  warm  soap-suds,  so  as  to  free  it 
entirely  from  grease :  otherwise  it  will  not  take  the  dye.  It 
should  then  be  opened  out,  and  dried ;  and  before  it  goes  into 
the  dye,  it  should  be  made  thoroughly  wet  with  cold  water,  and 
then  squeezed  out  and  opened.  When  it  comes  out  of  the  dye, 
and  has  taken  the  colour  properly,  it  must  be  put  in  the  open 
air  to  dry.  If  raw  wool,  spread  it  on  boards ;  if  yarn,  hang  it 
on  lines.  When  it  is  quite  dry,  take  a  bucket  of  warm  water 
(not  hot)  and  mix  with  it  a  tea-cup  full  of  lye.  Wash  the 
article  through  two  of  these  warm  lye-waters,  and  rinse  it  in 
cold  water  till  the  colour  ceases  to  come  out.  Then  dry  it 
again. 

Raw  wool  should  be  carefully  picked  arid  opened  before 
washing  for  the  dye. 

All  dye-stuffs  must  be  strained  before  using.  The  kettle 
should  then  be  washed,  the  dye-stuff  returned  to  it,  and  the 
article  to  be  coloured  put  in. 

The  barks  used  in  dyeing  should  be  taken  from  the  trees  in 
April  or  May,  when  the  sap  is  in  them. 

BROWN. — In  the  spring  when  the  sap  comes  up,  take  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  bark  from  the  white  walnut  tree.  Spread 
in  a  tub  or  in  a  half  barrel  a  plentiful  layer  of  this  bark,  and  a 


102 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


thin  layer  of  picked  wool,  alternately,  till  the  tub  is  two-thirds 
full.  Then  pour  on  enough  of  cold  soft  water  to  cover  the 
whole.  Lay  stones  on  the  top  to  keep  it  down.  Let  it  stand 
some  days  in  the  sun  and  air,  till  the  water  becomes  a  very 
dark  brown.  Examine  the  wool  to  see  if  it  is  thoroughly 
coloured.  Then  open  it  out,  and  spread  it  on  boards  to  dry. 
When  dry,  if  you  find  it  not  dark  enough,  repeat  the  process. 
It  is  best  to  do  it  in  warm  weather. 

Another  shade  of  brown  may  be  obtained  by  mixing  with  a 
large  quantity  of  the  white  walnut  bark,  a  small  portion  of  the 
bark  of  sour  sumach. 

A  light  brown  may  be  produced  by  boiling,  in  a  brass  kettle, 
some  bark  of  the  white  maple  with  a  lump  of  alum. 

BUFF  COLOUR.— Take  in  the  spring  some  birch  bark. 
Put  it  into  a  brass  kettle,  and  pour  on  sufficient  water  to  cover 
it.  Then  add  a  proportionate  piece  of  alum,  (for  instance,  about 
half  the  size  of  an  egg  or  larger,)  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour. 
Strain  it,  and  return  it  to  the  kettle,  which  must  previously  be 
washed  clean.  Then  having  thoroughly  wetted  the  article  by 
dipping  it  in  weak  lye,  and  squeezed  and  shook  it  out,  put  it 
into  the  dye,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  has  taken  the  colour  com- 
pletely.  If,  when  dry,  you  find  it  too  pale,  repeat  the  dyeing. 

ORANGE  COLOUR  Put  into  a  brass  or  copper  kettle 

some  black-alder  bark  (taken  in  the  spring)  and  a  sufficiency 
of  soft  water  to  cover  it.  Boil  and  skim  it  till  you  have  a 
strong  fine  colour,  and  then  strain  it.  Have  ready  a  rather 
strong  lye  and  dip  the  wool  or  woollen  into  it,  then  squeeze  it 
out,  and  put  the  article  into  the  dye  while  warm,  letting  it 
veiiiain  in  it  till  the  liquid  gets  cold.  Afterwards  squeeze  it, 
open  it  out,  and  dry  it  in  the  air. 


COUNTRY    MANNER    OF  DYEING. 


103 


RED — Steep  five  pounds  of  Brazil  wood  for  a  week  in  rain 
or  river  water  :  then  boil  it  in  a  sulBcient  quantity  of  water  to 
cover  the  yarn  you  intend  dyeing.  First  soak  the  yam  in 
alum-water  so  as  completely  to  saturate  it.  Then  (while  wet) 
boil  it  in  the  dye,  which  must  be  previously  strained.  Then 
open  it  out  and  dry  it. 

Afterwards  take  a  bucket  of  warm  (not  hot)  water  without 
soap,  and  mix  with  it  a  tea-cup  full  of  lye.  Wash  the  yarn 
thus,  through  two  warm  waters,  and  rinse  it  till  the  colour 
ceases  to  come  out.  This  must  always  be  done  with  dyed 
yarn. 


YELLOW — Boil  together  two-thirds  of  black  oak  bark  and 
one-third  of  hickory,  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  yarn, 
which  must  first  be  steeped  in  alum-water.  When  the  two 
barks  have  boiled  together  till  they  produce  the  colour  you 
want,  strain  the  liquid,  and  put  the  yarn  into  it  wet. 

The  bark  of  the  sweet  apple  tree  will  dye  a  good  yellow. 

BLUE  AND  GREEN.-A  week  before  you  wish  to  dye 
the  article,  get  two  ounces  of  indigo  and  four  ounces  of  oil  of 
vitriol :  mix  them  together  in  a  clean  bottle,  cork  it  tightly, 
and  let  it  stand  to  infuse :  shaking  it  several  times  every  day. 
This,  if  used  by  itself,  will  make  a  blue  dye  diluted  with 
water  to  any  tint  you  wish.  When  added  to  certain  barks,  it 
will  make  a  green,  as  follows : 

Take  two-thirds  of  black  oak  bark  and  one-third  of  hickory 
bark,  (stripped  from  the  trees  in  April  or  May,)  and  boil  them 
together  in  soft  water  for  twelve  hours.  After  which  strain 
the  liquid,  and  mix  with  it  the  infusion  of  indigo  and  oil  of 
vitriol  which  you  have  made  a  week  previous.  Then  dip  the 
yarn  into  alum-water,  and  while  wet  steep  it  in  the  dye.  The 


104 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


above  quantity  of  ingredients  will  colour  sufficient  yarn  for 
two  coverlets. 

When  the  yarn  has  taken  the  colour  completely,  open  it  out 
and  spread  it  to  dry  in  the  shade. 

BLACK. — Make  a  decoction  of  blue  Aleppo  nut-galls  by 
bruising  them  coarsely,  and  then  pouring  on  them  boiling 
water  in  the  proportion  of  a  gallon  of  water  to  a  pound  of  nut- 
galls.  Let  the  decoction  stand  for  three  or  four  days  or  more, 
stirring  it  frequently.  Prepare  at  the  same  time,  in  another 
vessel,  a  decoction  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chipped  logwood, 
and  four  ounces  of  green  copperas,  to  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  stand  also  three  or  more  days,  stirring  it  often. 
Afterwards  strain  the  decoction  of  gall-nuts  into  a  brass  or 
copper  kettle,  put  into  it  the  woollen  or  yarn,  and  bqj^t  two 
hours.  Then  take  it  out;  empty  and  wash  the  kettle,  and 
strain  into  it  the  decoction  of  logwood  and  copperas.  Put  in 
the  yarn  again ;  hang  it  over  the  fire,  and  keep  the  dye  for  two 
hours  at  a  scalding  heat,  but  do  not  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  fre- 
quently taking  out  the  yarn  and  exposing  it  a  little  while  to 
the  air,  which  will  give  it  a  better  black.  When  it  has 
thoroughly  taken  the  dye,  spread  it  out  to  dry,  and  afterwards 
wash  it  in  warm  water  mixed  with  a  little  lye,  and  then  rinse 
it  well. 


105 


INSECTS,  RATS,  MICE,  &c. 


REMEDIES  FOR  BED-BUGS  OR  CHINCHES.— In 
new  houses,  where  the  habits  of  the  family  are  neat,  and  a  gene- 
ral attention  is  paid  to  cleanliness  throughout,  there  will  be 
little  danger  of  bed-bugs ;  but  on  removing  to  an  old  house 
which  has  had  various  occupants,  these  disgusting  and  intolera- 
ble insects  frequently  make  their  appearance  with  the  com- 
menc^jpj^pfef  the  waim  weather  (and  sometimes  before)  from 
havifig  Been!Hfe|dMj^y  allowed  to  get  possession  even  of  the 
crevice^lpi^Ui*  '^Bd-work  on  the  walls  ;  and  if  the  chambers 
are  papered,  they  often  contirive  to  effect  a  lodgment  between 
the  edges  of  the  paper  and  the  plastering.  In  this  case  the 
most  efficient  remedy  is  to  have  the  paper  torn  off,  (first  loosen- 
ing it  by  washing  it  all  over  with  a  broom  or  brush  dipped  in 
water,)  and  the  walls  purified  by  white-washing  or  painting. 
If  bugs  are  found  in  the  crevices  of  the  surbase  or  wash-board 
of  an  old  house,  their  haunts  should  be  well  washed  with  a 
strong  decoction  of  tobacco  boiled  in  water,  or  with  a  decoction 
of  red  peppers.  If  these  washes  (which  by  frequent  repetition 
generally  succeed)  should  fail  to  destroy  them,  the  crevices,  as 
a  last  resource,  should  be  rubbed  with  quicksilver  beaten  up 
with  White  of  egg ;  and  afterwards  filled  up  with  putty  or  wad- 
ding, or  with  quick-lime  mixed  with  water. 

If  on  moving  into  a  house,  it  is  found  to  be  free  from  bugs  or 
other  vermin,  the  utmost  care  should  be  taken  to  keep  it  so ; 
remembering  always  the  homely  proverb  that  •'  an  ounCe  of 
prevention  is  worth  a  pound  of  cure." 


106 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


An  absurd  idea  is  strangely  prevalent  that  bugs  never  origi- 
nate in  a  mahogany  bedstead.  Nothing  can  be  more  false. 
There  is  no  wood  of  which  a  bedstead  can  be  made  that  pos- 
sesses any  quality  which  is  inimical  to  them.  Old  bedsteads 
are  of  course  more  likely  to  be  infested  with  bugs  than  new 
ones ;  and  therefore  it  is  not  advisable  to  buy  them  at  auction 
or  in  any  second-hand  way.  Cot  bedsteads  are,  of  all  others, 
the  most  productive  of  bugs.  The  old-fashioned  press-bed- 
steads (which  were  made  to  open  out  when  wanted  at  night,  and 
during  the  day  were  turned  up  and  shut  within  folding  doors 
so  as  to  resemble  a  ward-robe  press)  could  never  even  with 
the  greatest  care  be  kept  free  from  them.  We  have  heard  the 
same  objection  made  to  the  sofa-beds,  which  hajmbeen  tried 
by  persons  who  desired  to  use  the  saineAonyiJEasJ^arlour 
and  a  chamber.  We  believe  that  in  oui^llKicfan  clnnate,  no 
bedstead  or  bedding,  which  during  the  day  is  shut  up  entirely 
from  the  air,  can  long  continue  free  from  these  insects. 

For  boarding-schools,  hospitals,  barracks,  prisons,  and  all 
places  where  the  sleeping  apartments  are  small,  or  where  many 
persons  sleep  in  the  same  room,  no  bedsteads  are  comparable 
to  those  made  entirely  of  iron ;  which,  however,  should  always 
be  painted  to  prevent  their  rusting. 

Bugs  will  not  only  infest  bedsteads,  but  also  couches,  sofas, 
cribs,  cradles,  easy-chairs,  ward-robe-presses,  and  other  arti- 
cles of  furniture  that  are  kept  in  bed-rooms ;  therefore  great 
care  should  be  taken  to  inspect  these  things  frequently.  We 
have  heard  even  of  bugs  getting  into  pianos  that  were  kept  in 
boarding-school  chambers.  Hair  trunks  should  never  be  placed 
in  bed-rooms,  as  they  are  apt  to  collect  bugs,  fleas,  and  moths. 
It  is  well  not  to  use  hair  trunks  at  all.  If  those  of  leather  are 
considered  too  expensive  for  common  purposes,  it  is  better  to 
substitute  strong  wooden  boxes,  painted  on  the  outside,  and 


INSECTS,   RATS,   MICE,  ETC. 


107 


furnished  with  hinges,  handles,  and  a  lock  and  key.  These 
boxes  are  excellent  for  travelling,  and  also  to  hold  articles  at 
home.  By  bespeaking  them  of  a  carpenter,  or  cabinet-maker, 
they  can  be  obtained  with  little  trouble  and  expense. 

Servants  (who  in  general  sleep  too  soundly  to  feel  much 
annoyance  from  any  thing)  are  very  apt  to  neglect  the  care  of 
their  beds,  and  frequently  deny  the  existence  of  bugs  in  them, 
till  they  become  infested  to  a  degree  that  is  difficult  to  remedy. 
When  this  is  the  case,  it  is  a  chance  if  the  nuisance  does  not 
spread  to  the  apartnients  of  the  family,  the  insects  being  con- 
veyed thither  on  the  clothes  of  the  servants.  A  good  house- 
keeper will  guard  against  this  evil  in  time,  by  personal  inspec- 
tion of  th4^rvants'  apartments,  and  by  insisting  on  the 
excell^l^ 'prae^^e  of  sspreading  out  all  their  bed-clothes  on 
chairs,  esrery  'nibirfiing''as  soon  as  they  are  up,  and  also  on 


raising  tKe^mdow-sashes,  for  the  purpose  of  ventilating  the 
room  ;  even  in  the  coldest  weather. 

If,  however,  their  bedsteads  are  actually  infested,  they 
should  be  taken  apart,  carried  into  the  yard,  and  the  joints  and 
pins  first  scalded  with  hot  water,  and  then  washed  with  cold 
strong  soap-suds  :  as  also  the  sacking-bottom ;  the  servants,  if 
necessary,  sleeping  on  the  floor  for  one  night,  till  the  whole 
has  had  time  to  dry  thoroughly.  Before  the  bedstead  is  put 
together  again,  the  joints  should  be  well  rubbed  with  strong 
mercurial  ointment;  or  with  some  of  the  other  applications 
recommended  for  the  destruction  of  insects.  A  servant's  bed- 
stead can  hardly  be  considered  safe,  unless  it  is  taken  down 
and  cleaned  once  a  month  during  the  warm  weather ;  and  the 
mistress  of  the  house  should  see  that  it  is  done. 

It  is  not  well  to  place  bedsteads  with  one  side  against  the 
wall.  This  increases  the  heat,  obstructs  the  free  circulation  of 
nir,  and  adds  to  the  difficulty  of  keeping  them  free  from  bugs 


108 


THE    HOTJSE  BOOK. 


Even  in  a  small  room,  some  sacrifice  of  space  should  be 
made  for  the  purpose  of  having  the  bedstead  to  stand  out  in 
the  floor ;  so  that  only  the  head  may  be  against  the  wall. 

It  is  an  excellent  custom  to  have  all  the  bedsteads  washed 
at  the  joints  with  cold  suds  made  of  brown  or  soft  soap,  regu- 
larly once  a  week,  (for  instance,  on  Friday,)  spreading  a 
coarse  cloth  under  or  round  the  feet,  to  catch  the  droppings  of 
the  water.  After  the  bedstead  is  washed,  the  bedding  should  be 
kept  all  day  spread  about  the  room,  or  in  a  back  balcony,  and 
the  bed  not  made  up  till  towards  evening. 

If  proper  precautions  are  observed,  there  is  little  danger  of  a 
well  managed  family  being  troubled  with  insects  in  their  bed- 
steads ;  unless,  as  remarked  above,  they  chance  tamove  into 
an  old  or  ill  kept  house.  It  will  be  well  then,  ^Isfpl^ntive, 
to  cover  all  the  cracks  or  joints  of  tfte  bedstead  wijS^  sfrong 
mercurial  ointment,  rubbing  it  in  small 
box  of  this  ointment  may  be  found  useful  in  travelling,  to  rub 
on  the  bedstead  before  you  retire  to  it. 

One  of  the  best  remedies  eind  preventives  for  bed-bugs,  is  to 
procure  from  a  druggist  an  ounce  of  quicksilver,  and  beat  it  in 
a  mortar  to  a  strong  froth,  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs ;  or  if 
you  wish  it  very  powerful,  and  thick  like  an  ointment,  use  the 
white  of  one  egg  only.  If  liquid,  spread  it  with  the  feather 
of  a  quill :  or,  what  is  still  better,  with  a  large  old  camel's 
hair  brush,  all  over  the  cracks  and  pins  of  the  bedstead,  (not 
forgetting  the  under  side  of  all  the  joints,)  and  see  that  it  pene- 
trates thoroughly.  If  you  have  made  an  ointment  of  it,  rub  it 
on  with  your  finger.  This  is  considered  a  still  better  remedy 
than  the  common  mercurial  ointment,  but  cannot  always  be  as 
promptly  obtained. 

To  wash  the  joints  and  pins  of  the  bedstead  frequently  with 


INSECTS,  RATS,  MICE,  ETC. 


109 


sweet  spirits  of  nitre  is  a  tolerable  remedy  for  bugs  when  they 
are  not  numerous. 

Corrosive  sublimate,  mixed  with  spirits  of  wine,  and  rubbed 
jintp  all  the  cracks,,  will  also  destroy  them ;  but  it  must  be 
repeated  frequently,  washing  it  well  into  the  cracks  with  a  quill 
feather,  or  a  soft  brush. 

A  very  good  way  of  keeping  bedsteads  free  from  bugs,  is, 
after  a  weekly  washing  with  cold  soap-suds,  to  take  a  sponge 
and  wet  every  joint  and  pin  with  a  mixture  made  as  follows. 
Put  into  a  quart  bottle  equal  quantities  of  spirits  of  wine  and 
spirits  of  turpentine,  adding  a  large  table-spoonful  of  oil  of 
vitriol,  and  an  ounce  of  powdered  camphor.  Cork  it  tightly, 
and  keep  it  for  use.  This  should  be  applied  every  week,  be- 
ginnin^t^36^t  of  Inarch,  and  continuing  till  November. 

A  mti^tj^^ual  remedy  against  bugs  is  to  have  all  the  bed- 
steads inthe  house  taken  down  every  spring,  (in  March,  for 
instance,)  and  after  washing  the  joints  with  cold  water  and 
brown  soap,  to  have  the  whole  bedstead  completely  varnished 
(even  on  the  inside  of  the  joints)  with  varnish  procured  from 
a  cabinet-maker ;  or  getting  a  cabinet-maker's  man  to  come 
and  do  it.  The  expense  will  be  small  in  comparison  to  the 
benefit. 

Also,  carefully  stop  up  with  putty  all  the  cracks  and  cre- 
vices, however  small,  of  the  wash-board  and  surbase. 

Or  for. stopping  the  cracks,  you  may  use  quick-lime  made 
into  a  dough  with  water,  and  plastered  into  all  the  crevices 
with  a  knife. 

;  _qOCKROACHES.— Every  house  should  be  provided  with 
cockroach  traps.  They  are  made  of  brown  earthenware,  and 
are  to  be  bought  for  a  trifle  at  the  pottery  shops,  or  in  the 


10 


110 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Philadelphia  market.  Bait  them  with  molasses  mixed  with  a 
little  water,  and  set  them  about  at  night,  when  the  lights  are 
removed. 

Cockroaches  should  not  be  allowed  to  increase,  or  they  will 
soon  become  an  intolerable  nuisance ;  and  when  very  nume- 
rous, it  is  extremely  difficult  to  get  rid  of  them.  It  is  best,  as 
soon  as  the  first  one  makes  its  appearance,  to  resort  immedi- 
ately to  effective  measures  for  their  destruction  ;  for  if  taken 
in  time,  they  are  easily  extirpated.  Let  every  cockroach  that 
is  found  on  the  stairs  be  immediately  killed  ;  for  if  they  once 
get  into  the  upper  part  of  the  house  there  is  danger  of  their 
creeping  into  the  beds,  and  finding  their  way  into  trunks,  band- 
boxes, and  clothes-presses,  where  they  will  eat  holeaiu  articles 
of  clothing,  if  not  discovered  in  time,    i  ( 

The  hellebore  plant,  laid  in  large  quantities  D]|ces  that 
they  frequent,  will  sometimes  expel  them. 

A  pound  of  chloride  of  lime  mixed  with  a  quart  of  water, 
and  placed  where  they  abound,  is  destructive  to  them. 

Another  remedy  for  cock-roaches  is  to  boil  the  roots  of  the 
pokeberry  plant  till  quite  dissolved  in  the  water,  and  then  mix 
it  with  molasses,  and  set  it  about  in  old  saucers. 

The  following  is  a  good  remedy : — Take  six  cents  worth,  or 
more,  of  powdered  white  lead,  (you  may  obtain  it  at  a  paint  or 
drug  store,)  put  it  on  an  old  plate,  and  mix  it  with  Indian  meal, 
and  coarse  brown  sugar  or  molasses.  Then  with  a  little  water 
make  it  into  a  paste,  using  for  the  purpose  a  broad-bladed 
knife,  or  an  iron  spoon.  Spread  it  on  old  plates  or  saucers,  and 
set  it  about  wherever  you  have  seen  cock-roaches.  They  will 
eat  it  readily,  and  it  will  destroy  them.  It  is  best  to  mix  it 
fresh  every  day  till  the  cock-roaches  disappear. 

Arsenic  powder  strewed  among  bread  and  butter-crumbs, 


INSECTS,    RATS,    MICE,  ETC. 


Ill 


and  laid  at  night  about  their  haunts,  will  effectually  destroy 
them.  As  it  is  a  deadly  poison,  take  care  to  shut  out  your  cats 
and  dogs  from  the  rooms  in  which  you  have  placed  it. 

Scalding  with  a  hot  decoction  of  tobacco  the  holes  and  cracks 
from  which  the  cock-roaches  issue,  will  greatly  diminish  their 
numbers. 

FLEAS. — Fleas  are  often  brought  to  a  house  by  cats  and 
dogs;  for  which  reason  those  animals  should  be  kept  very 
clean.  In  the  country,  if  pigs  are  allowed  to  be  near  the 
house,  they  will  soon  cause  it  to  abound  in  fleas.  So  also 
will  the  immediate  neighbourhood  of  a  stable.  Shavings, 
if  permitted  to  accumulate  and  lie  about,  will  also  produce 
them.  wmiBjevent  their  originating  in  blankets  and  other 
woollenffthSft  are  put  away  for  the  summer,  it  is  well  to 
spread  among  the  folds  numerous  sprigs  of  penny-royal. 
Shreds  or  flakes  of  tobacco  are  also  good  for  this  purpose ;  so 
are  lumps  of  camphor,  broken  small. 

In  catching  fleas  the  best  and  surest  way  to  kill  them  is  to 
put  them  instantly  into  a  basin  of  water. 

Sprigs  of  wild  myrtle,  or  penny-royal,  or  small  flat  camphor- 
bags  dispersed  about  your  under-clothes,  and  conveniently  fast- 
ened, will  keep  fleas  from  molesting  your  person  during  the 
day. 

At  night,  let  penny-royal  be  scattered  over  the  bed-covers, 
and  laid  under  the  pillows  and  bolster ;  strewing  a  large  quan- 
tity between  the  sacking  and  the  mattrass.  Wash  yourself 
before  going  to  bed  in  water  that  has  had  essence  of  penny- 
royal mixed  with  it. 

Fumigation  with  brimstone  will  destroy  fleas ;  exposing  to 
the  vapour  of  the  burning  sulphur  all  the  articles  that  are 
infested  with  them. 


112 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


"When  fleas  are  found  on  cats,  dogs,  &c.,  they  may  be  extir- 
pated by  rubbing  the  animal  all  over  with  common  snufF,  taking 
care  that  it  does  not  touch  the  eyes. 

CRICKETS. — To  destroy  crickets,  put  snuff  into  the  holes 
and  cracks  from  whence  they  come  out. 

FLIES. — Flies  may  be  destroyed  by  the  following  prepara- 
tion :  Dissolve  four  drachms  of  extract  of  quassia,  (to  be  pro- 
cured at  the  druggists,)  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  then  mix 
in  a  little  brown  sugar  or  molasses.  Set  it  about  on  old 
saucers. 

Fly-traps  (which  are  two  flat  broad  pieces  of  wood,  shaped 
into  handles  at  the  bottom,  and  united  at  the  bacl«4^j(^leathern 
hinge,)  are  used  in  some  houses.  They  m|[g|^|^  spread 
open,  smeared  with  molasses  on  the  inside,  and  stood  up  or 
hung  in  a  convenient  place.  When  filled  with  flies,  shut  the 
trap  hard,  so  as  to  kill  them. 

Cold  green  tea  very  strong,  and  sweetened  with  brown 
sugar,  will,  when  set  about  in  saucers,  attract  the  flies  and 
destroy  them. 

Bunches  of  indigo  weed,  or  of  penny-royal,  stuck  about  the 
harness  is  said  to  keep  flies  from  horses. 

MUSQUITOES.— The  common  opinion  that  musquitoes 
are  attracted  by  the  light,  we  believe  to  be  erroneous.  Out  of 
doors  they  are  much  more  numerous  in  dark  shady  places  than 
in  open  sunshine  ;  and  the  time  that  they  get  into  the  houses, 
is  in  the  dusk  of  the  evening,  before  the  candles  or  lamps  are 
lighted.  They  are  very  quick-sighted  as  to  the  approach  of 
danger,  and  in  trying  to  kill  them  on  a  wall,  it  is  best  not  to 
attempt  to  strike  them  with  the  palm  of  your  hand,  but  merely 


INSECTS     RATS,    MICE,  ETC. 


113 


with  your  finger  as  they  are  less  likely  to  perceive  the  impend- 
ing blow. 

Musquito  nets  are  somewhat  of  safe-guards  from  the  incur- 
sions of  this  tormenting  insect,  and  in  the  south  they  are  con- 
sidered indispensable.  But  where  the  musquitoes  are  not  very 
numerous,  it  may  be  well  to  omit  the  use  of  nets,  as  they  cause 
an  uncomfortable  feeling  of  confinement^  and  oppression  in  a 
warm  night,  from  their  impeding  the  free  circulation  of  air 
around  the  bed.  Also  a  few  stray  musquitoes  will  generally 
contrive  to  get  within  the  net  before  you  let  it  down,  and 
cause  you  much  annoyance.  Terrible,  and,  indeed,  fatal  acci- 
dents have  happened  from  the  musquito  net  catching  the  flame 
of  the  candle,  and  setting  the  bedding  on  fire. 

Musqm^itfhets  are  made  of  millinet,  coarse  leno,  or  coarse 
bobbinel»jf>IlClkey  are  thrown  over  the  tester  or  top-rail  of  the 
bed,  and  hang  on  all  sides  quite  down  to  the  floor.  A  musquito 
bar  is  the  net  stretched  on  a  frame  of  wood,  so  as  to  screen 
a  low  post  bed,  from  the  incursions  of  these  insects. 

It  is  said  that  you  may  get  rid  of  musquitoes  for  the  night, 
by  carrying  into  your  room  a  shovel  or  chafing-dish  of  hot 
coals,  and  having  thrown  on  it  some  brown  sugar,  close  all  the 
windows  and  doors,  and  let  it  burn  till  the  smoke  has  died  away. 

If  you  put  some  eau  de  cologne  or  spirits  of  camphor  in  a 
basin  of  cold  water,  and  wash  yourself  well  with  it  previous 
to  going  to  bed,  the  musquitoes  will  be  less  likely  to  trouble 
you. 

Take  a  light  in  your  hand,  carefully  search  the  walls  of  your 
room  all  round,  the  last  thing  before  you  lie  down,  and  kill 
every  musquito  you  see.  If  you  are  unwilling  to  stain  the  wall , 
you  can  catch  and  destroy  them  with  the  corner  of  a  towel  or 
handkerchief  taken  between  your  thumb  and  finger.  Persons 
who  have  had  practice  can  do  this  very  dexterously. 

10* 


114 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


If  you  have  sufficient  resolution  to  refrain  from  rubbing;  a 
musquito  bite,  and  your  blood  is  in  a  good  state,  it  will  seldom 
inflame  or  continue  troublesome.  If,  however,  the  bites  do 
inflame,  and  cause  you  much  inconvenience,  it  will  be  well  to 
cool  and  purify  your  blood  by  taking  a  wine-glass,  or  more,  of 
dissolved  epsom  salts,  about  day-light  every  morning,  for 
awhile.  To  have  this  always  at  hand,  'put  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  salts,  in  a  clean  quart  bottle:  fill  it  up  with  water, 
(either  warm  or  cold)  cork  it  tightly,  and  keep  it  in  a  closet 
in  your  room. 

We  know  no  better  remedy  for  musquito  bites  than  salt  and 
vinegar,  which  if  applied  immediately,  and  before  the  skin  is 
broken  by  rubbing,  will  speedily  extract  the  venor^allay  the 
irritation,  and  cause  the  swelling  to  subside  ""'i^Wj  leaving 
any  mark  or  trace.  In  musquito  season,  it  is  wnflo  keep  in 
your  closet  a  little  bottle  of  vinegar,  and  a  cup  of  salt,  with  a 
small  plate  or  saucer  to  mix  them  oh.  Moisten  some  of  the 
salt  with  sufficient  vinegar  to  form  a  paste,  (it  must  not  be 
thin  or  liquid,)  and  then  plaster  it  on  thick  all  over  the  bite. 
Let  it  stay  on  till  it  falls  oflf  of  itself,  and  then  if  necessary, 
renew  the  application. 

It  is  said  that  a  paste  of  salt  and  vinegar,  if  immediately 
applied,  has  been  known  to  extract  the  poison  from  the  bite  of 
a  snake.  At  least  it  may  be  well  to  try  it,  till  other  remedies 
can  be  procured. 

Washing  musquito  bites  with  lead-water  is  a  good  remedy. 
So  also  is  bay-rum. 

ANTS. — Few  insects  are  more  difficult  to  exterminate  than 
the  little  red  ants  with  which  many  houses  are  infested.  They 
may  be  kept  under,  by  frequently  scalding  with  boiling  water, 
the  cracks  and  places  from  which  they  issue.    To  smear  the 


INSECTS,  RATS,  MICE,  ETC. 


115 


cracks  of  the  closets  between  the  shelves  and  the  wall  with 
corrosive  sublimate  will  destroy  them ;  but  as  it  is  a  deadly 
poisoii,  it  must  be  used  with  caution.  Dishes  and  jars  con- 
taining articles  that  the  ants  seem  to  like,  should  be  set  in  pans 
of  salt  and  water,  and  the  pan  should  be  surrounded  with  a 
ring  of  salt.  If  they  infest  the  sideboard,  let  the  feet  be  set 
constantly  in  tin  or  iron  cups  filled  with  salt  and  water. 

A  circle  of  tar  spread  round  each  foot  of  the  bench  that 
holds  the  hives,  will  prevent  ants  from  reaching  the  bees  and 
destroying  the  honey. 

MOTHS. — Many  persons  erroneously  suppose  that  the  best 
way  to  ftevent  moths  from  getting  into  woollens  or  furs,  is 
occasional^hrough  the  summer  to  hang  these  articles  out  in 
the  sun  aiwP^r.  This  is  a  great  mistake,  as  it  is  by  such  ex- 
posure that  the  moths  are  most  likely  to  get  into  them.  On 
the  contrary,  in  the  spring,  when  the  season  is  over  for  furs 
and  woollens,  they  should  be  well  shaken  and  brushed,  and 
then  wrapped  up  tightly  in  linen,  laying  among  them  lumps 
■  of  camphor;  handfuls  of  fresh  hops;  shreds  of  good  tobacco, 
or  cuttings  of  Russia  leather;  or  strew  among  them  ground 
black  pepper  or  cedar  shavings ;  all  of  which  are  preventives  to 
moths:  but  the  camphor  is  by  far  the  best,  and  most  certain, 
particularly  for  furs.  For  blankets  and  carpets,  you  may  use 
the  best  chewing-tobacco  pulled  to  pieces,  or  tobacco  stems. 
•All  wooUensj  &c.  should  be  kept  during  the  summer, 
unopened,  in  dark  closets,  presses,  or  chests.  If  by  any  chance 
or  neglect,  a  press  or  closet  should  become  infested  with  moths, 
let  it  be  well  scalded  with  a  strong  decoction  of  tobacco  and 
repeatedly  sprinkled  with  spirits  of  camphor.  If  this  does  not 
expel  these  troublesome  insects,  it  is  better  to  give  up  keeping 
woollens  in  that  press,  and  to  appropriate  it  to  some  other  use. 


116 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Chests  of  camphor  wood  (for  which  many  persons  send  to 
India)  are  excellent  for  keeping  woollens,  and  well  worth  the 
cost.  If  muffs  and  tippets  are  kept  always  closely  shut  up  in 
their  own  boxes,  with  lumps  of  camphor,  and  shreds  of  tobacco, 
continually  interspersed  about  the  fur,  they  will  be  in  no  dan- 
ger from  the  moth.  Furs  had  best  be  put  away  for  the  season 
as  early  as  March. 

Cedar  presses  are  preferable  to  all  others,  for  keeping  cloth 
clothes  or  other  woollen  articles. 

Hair  trunks  rarely  fail  to  introduce  moths. 

The  best  time  for  putting  away  the  woollens  is  in  April, 
unless  the  season  is  so  backward  as  still  to  require  the  use  of 
them.  One  blanket  for  each  bed  should  be  kept  out,  and  left 
in  the  chamber-closet,  that  it  may  be  at  hand  iq.^ase  of  an 
uncomfortably  cool  night  in  the  summer. 

Flannels  should  never  be  put  out  of  the  way  entirely  :  as  in 
a  climate  so  variable  as  ours,  they  may  be  needed  occasionally 
even  in  July  and  August. 


REMEDIES  FOR  STINGS  OR  BITES  OF  INSECTS. 
— If  stung  on  your  hand  or  foot,  plunge  it  directly  into  cold 
water,  (strong  salt  and  water  is  better  still,)  and  hold  it  there 
till  some  other  remedy  is  prepared.  A  sting  in  any  place  will 
be  much  relieved  by  plastering  on  it  immediately  some  clay  or 
earth,  mixed  with  a  little  water  to  the  consistence  of  thick  mud. 
Powdered  chalk  moistened  with  water  is  good.  A  paste  of 
salt  wet  with  vinegar  is  excellent. 

A  slice  of  raw  onion  is  said  to  allay  the  pain  from  the  sting 
of  a  wasp  or  bee ;  or  you  may  wet  the  part,  and  rub  a  piece 
of  indigo  upon  it.  It  is  also  very  good  to  bathe  the  wound 
with  laudanum,  or  with  hartshorn,  or  with  spirits  of  camphor, 
or  with  sweet  oil. 


INSECTS,  RATS,  MICE,  ETC.  llf 

All  the  above  applications  should  be  repeated  till  the  inten- 
sity of  the  pain  subsides.  If  the  sting  shows  a  disposition  to 
inflame,  keep  the  place  constantly  wet  with  a  rag  soaked  in  a 
solution  of  Prussian  blue  and  soft  water.  A  poultice  of  cold 
lead-water  and  bread-crumbs,  is  also  a  very  soothing  remedy. 
If  there  seems  to  be  danger  of  the  sting  becoming  a  sore, 
(which  is  sometimes  the  case  when  the  blood  is  in  a  bad  state, 
or  if  the  stings  are  numerous,)  take  a  dose  of  salts,  and  refrain 
from  animal  food.  It  may  be  well  also  to  lose  some  blood. 

Another  remedy,  is  to  hold  the  part  that  is  stung  in  pearl-ash 
and  water,  moderately  strong. 

The  pipe  or  hollow  end  of  a  key,  pressed  hard  upon  ' HiiS 
wound,  will  allay  the  pain  of  a  sting. 

It  sometimes  happens  that  a  wasp  or  bee  is  accidentally  swal- 
lowed :  ydGS/kiay  in  that  case  kill  the  insect  immediately,  by 
taking  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt  dissolved  in  a  little  water ;  this 
will  also  prevent  the  sting  from  inflaming  yout  throat. 

If  bees  swarm  upon  your  head,  hold  an  empty  hive  over  it 
and  smoke  a  segar  or  a  pipe.  The  vapour  of  the  tobacco  will 
drive  them  all  upwards  into  the  hive. 

The  pain  caused  by  the  sting  of  a  nettle  may  be  much  allayed 
by  rubbing  the  part  with  balm,  rosemary,  mint,  or  sage 
leaves. 

RATS  AND  MICE.— There  is  much  difficulty  in  getting 
rid  of  rats  and  mice,  when  they  once  have  found  their  way 
into  a  house.  A  gbod  cat  is  one  of  the  best  remedies  for 
mice,  but  some  cats  are  afraid  to  encounter  a  rat. 

To  keep  out  rats,  the  cellar  and  kitchen  windows  (if  the 
kitchen  is  in  the  basement  story)  should,  a*t  once,  while  the 
house  is  finishing,  be  provided,  both  back  and  front,  with  wire 
gratings  for  the  windows.    Rats  and  mice  always  get  in  from 


118 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


out  of  doors  and  from  the  neighbouring  houses  ;  and  if  the  base- 
ment windows  have  merely  iron  bars,  they  will  easily  slip 
between  them.  No  cellar  door  should  be  kept  open  after 
sunset;  indeed,  we  have  more  than  once  seen  a  rat  going 
down  into  an  open  cellar  in  broad  daylight. 

When  any  holes  are  found  about  the  walls,  they  should  be 
immediately  and  effectually  stopped  up ;  with  brick  and  mor- 
tar if  outside,  and  if  inside,  by  filling  them  with  putty  or 
wadding,  or  waste  newspaper,  and  nailing  over  them  bits  of 
board  ;  or  rather  sheet-lead  or  tin. 

In  travelling,  it  is  well  to  examine  your  chamber  before  you 
go  to  bed,  and  if  you  find  any  holes,  stop  them  up  for  the  night, 
by  stuffing  in,  as  tightly  as  possible,  old  newspaper,  rags,  or 
any  thing  you  can  conveniently  obtain  for  the  purpose.  A  hole 
in  the  floor  may  be  covered  by  placing  your  trunJi^pon  it.  It 
is  a  good  plan  to  have  among  your  baggage  a  small  mouse-trap, 
(carefully  wrapped  up,  so  that  the  roughness  of  the  wires 
may  not  injure  any  other  article,)  and  to  bait  it  and  set  it  on  the 
floor  of  the  room  in  which  you  sleep.  This,  by  catching  the 
mice,  will  prevent  your  being  disturbed  with  their  running 
about  the  room,,  and  perhaps  over  your  bed. 

The  common  cage-traps  are  the  best,  and  may  be  bought  for 
a  trifle  at  the  hard-ware  stores.  There  are  spring-traps  so  con- 
structed as  to  kill  the  mice  at  the  moment  they  are  caught ;  but 
these  are  difficult  to  fix,  and  very  soon  get  so  much  out  of  order 
as  to  be  useless.  Bait  the  trap  with  toasted  cheese,  bread  and 
butter,  or  sweet-cake.  You  may,  as  a  decoy,  lay  a  train  of 
crumbs  from  the  mouse-hole  to  the  trap.  Mice  soon  learn  to 
know  a  trap  when  they  see  it,  and  consequently  avoid  going 
near  it ;  therefore  set  it  in  a  dark  place,  and  cover  it  as  much  as 
possible  with  rags,  waste  paper,  hay,  or  any  thing  that  will 
effectually  conceal  from  them  all  but  the  entrance ;  the  scent 


INSECTS,    RATS,    MICE,  ETC. 


119 


only  being  sufficient  to  entice  them  to  the  bait.  The  most 
humane  manner  of  destroying  a  mouse  that  has  been  thus 
caught,  is  to  put  the  trap,  without  opening  it,  into  a  tub  or 
bucket  of  water. 

When  mice  and  rats  have  become  numerous,  the  most  effec- 
tive way  of  clearing  them  off,  is  by  poison.  Bits  of  broken 
glass,  bottles  pounded  to  powder  and  mixed  with  mush,  or  with 
cold  Indian  meal  and  water,  and  laid  about  their  haunts  on  old 
plates,  will  very  generally  destroy  them. 

It  is  said  that  the  plant  called  dog's-tongue,  (botanically  the 
cynoglopum  officinale,)  which  grows  abundantly  in  the  fields, 
will  cause  them  to  disappear,  when  spread  profusely  in  the 
places  that  they  infest.  For  this  purpose,  it  should  be  gathered 
at  the  time  when  the  sap  is  in  full  vigour,  and  should  be  bruised 
with  a  mallet^or  hammer. 

Another  remedy,  is  to  mix  a  large  table-spoonful  of  flour 
with  equal  quantities  of  the  seeds  of  hemlock  or  cicuta,  and 
the  scrapings  of  strong  old  cheese,  pounding  them  together  till 
quite  fine.  Set  it  about  on  old  plates  in  places  where  the  mice 
have  appeared,  but  take  care  not  to  put  it  where  provisions  or 
any  articles  of  food  are  kept.  The  same  ingredients,  mixed  in 
larger  quantities,  will  of  course  destroy  rats. 

Powdered  arsenic,  spread  on  bread  and  butter,  or  sweet-cake, 
is  certain  destruction  to  rats  and  mice ;  but  great  care  should 
be  taken  to  keep  young  children,  and  cats  and  dogs,  out  of  the 
way  of  it,  lest  they  eat  it  in  mistake.  All  papers  containing 
arsenic,  should  be  labelled  "  Poison,"  and  carefully  locked  up 
by  the  master  or  mistress  of  the  house. 

To  free  a  room  from  the  smell  of  a  dead  mouse  or  rat ;  take 
a  small  earthen  vessel,  in  which  put  a  little  pounded  salt-petre, 
(more  or  less  according  to  the  size  of  the  room,)  and  pour  on  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  oil  of  vitriol  to  saturate  or  wet  it  all 


\ 


120 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


through  profusely.  Then  place  it  where  the  unpleasant  smell 
is  most  powerful,  and  leave  it  in  the  room ;  shutting  the  doors 
and  windows  closely  when  you  go  out.  In  an  hour  or  two, 
the  effluvia  from  the  dead  animal  will  be  no  longer  per- 
ceptible. 

TO  PREPARE  RABBIT  OR  SQUIRREL  SKINS — 
Mix  a  sufficient  quantity  of  salt  and  water,  strong  enough  to 
bear  up  an  egg;  and  add  to  it  a  large  lump  of  alum,  broken 
small.  Warm  this  mixture  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it 
come  to  a  boil.  When  about  blood-warm  take  it  off,  and  put 
into  it  the  rabbit-skin,  (which  should  be  quite  fresh,)  and  let  it 
soak  twenty-four  hours  or  more.  Then  take  it  out  and  spread 
it  on  a  board,  (the  fur  inwards,)  fastening  it  with  small  tack 
nails.  Scrape  the  skin  with  a  knife,  and  a  thin  membrane 
will  come  off.  Next,  having  warmed  up  the  liquor  a  second 
time,  put  the  skin  again  into  it ;  and  let  it  remain  steeping  for 
five  or  six  hours  more.  Then  take  it  out,  and  nail  it  on  the 
board  to  dry,  the  fur  inwards  as  before.  When  dry,  rub  it 
well  with  whiting  and  pumice  stone,  and  expose  it  to  the  air 
for  a  week  or  two. 


121 


FUEL,  FIRES,  &c. 


WOOD — The  best  time  to  lay  in  wood,  for  winter  fuel,  is 
in  the  summer,  as  at  that  season  the  price  is  comparatively 
low ;  and  if  you  buy  it  green,  it  will  become  dry  enough  before 
the  cold  weather  sets  in.  If,  however,  you  have  occasion  to 
buy  wood  during  the  winter,  get  the  dryest  you  can  find ;  as 
green  wood  makes  a  very  bad  fire  in  a  cold  day,  and  is  at  no 
time  good  for  cooking.  There  is,  however,  some  economy  in 
buying  a  few  loads  of  large  green  wood  purposely  for  back- 
logs ;  as  there  is  much  inconvenience  in  a  dry  back-log  con- 
suming too  rapidly.  These  green  logs  should  be  piled  in  a 
place  by  themselves,  and  not  mixed  with  the  other  wood. 

The  best  wood  for  fuel  is  hickory,  and  the  next  is  oak. 
Locust  is  also  very  good ;  so  are  walnut,  beech,  and  maple. 
Birch  is  tolerable.  Chesnut  wood  is  extremely  unsafe  from 
its  tendency  to  snap  and  sparkle,  and  to  throw  its  small  coals 
all  round.  Pine  wood  is  of  little  value  as  house  fuel.  It 
blazes  freely  at  first,  but  when  its  resinous  qualities  have  ex- 
haled, (which  is  almost  immediately,)  the  sticks  turn  black, 
and  seem  to  moulder  away  without  emitting  any  heat.  Pine 
chips,  however,  from  the  rapidity  with  which  they  ignite,  are 
excellent  for  kindling. 

Some  families  are  in  the  practice  of  buying  all  their  wood  in 
large  logs,  and  having  them  split  up  at  once  to  a  convenient 
size  as  soon  as  they  are  sawed,  and  before  they  are  piled; 
engaging  a  wood-splitter  to  come  with  the  sawyer  and  piler. 
This  we  know  to  be  an  excellent  plan.  A  load  of  large  fine 
II 


122 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


hickory  or  oak  logs  will,  when  split  up,  (reserving  always  a 
sufficient  number  for  back-logs,)  yield  a  much  larger  quantity 
of  fuel,  than  if  originally  in  small  separate  round  sticks,  and 
will  therefore  go  farther.  Also  the  cost  of  splitting  is  but  a 
trifle,  and  bears  no  comparison  to  the  advantage  and  conve- 
nience. In  buying  wood,  the  smaller  and  more  crooked  it  is, 
the  less  you  have  in  a  load ;  on  account  of  the  numerous 
vacancies  between  the  numerous  sticks. 

The  generality  of  servants  are  extremely  wasteful  in  regard 
to  fuel.  In  summer  afternoons  they  frequently  make  up"  as 
large  a  fire  to  boil  the  tea-kettle,  as  they  have  had  to  cook  the 
dinner,  rendering  the  kitchen  so  hot,  that  they  are  obliged 
themselves  to  take  refuge  in  the  yard.  They  should  be  made 
to  understand  that  in  summer,  the  fire  seldom  requires  addi- 
tional wood  after  dinner ;  a  few  chunks  being  sufficient  to  boil 
the  kettle,  if  it  is  hung  on  in  time. 


WOOD  FIRES.— To  make  a  wood  fire  in  an  open  fire 
place,  begin  by  removing  the  andirons,  and  taking  up  all  the 
ashes  of  the  preceding  night,  and  sweeping  the  hearth  very 
clean.  It  is  well  to  wash  the  hearth  every  morning  before  the 
new  fire  is  made.  Then  bring  forward  whatever  chunks  or  hot 
coals  are  found  remaining  from  the  fire  that  was  covered  up  the 
night  before;  leaving  sufficient  space  to  put  on  a  large  back- 
log, on  the  top  of  which  place  another  log  somewhat  smaller. 
Lay  a  large  fore-stick  across  the  andirons,  and  upon  it,  place 
the  live  coals  and  chunks  for  kindling ;  adding,  if  necessary, 
some  chips,  or  bits  of  small  wood.  Then  pile  on  two  or  three 
other  sticks,  (placing  the  smallest  at  the  top)  take  the  bellows, 
and  blow  the  fire  into  a  flame  till  the  wood  is  well  ignited. 

If  you  wish  a  very  large  fire,  pile  two  logs  on  the  back-log, 
which  ought  to  be  of  great  size ;  and  lay  a  large  middle  stick 


fUEL,    FIRES,  ETC. 


123 


between  the  back-log  and  the  fore-stick.  Put  on  plenty  of  live 
coals  and  kindlings,  and  add  three  or  four  good-sized  sticks, 
(always  placing  the  smallest  at  top,)  and  then  blow  the  fire 
well. 

If  you  place  the  small  sticks  underneath,  they  will  shortly 
burn  in  two,  and  fedl  apart ;  bringing  the  upper  ones  down  with 
them,  and  causing  confusion  and  trouble. 

At  night,  before  you  go  to  bed,  take  off  any  long  sticks  that 
may  happen  to  be  on  the  fire  at  that  time,  and  carry  them  out 
into  the  yard,  throwing  them  on  the  ground,  or  pouring  water  on 
to  extinguish  them  completely.  This  is  safer  and  better  than 
to  stand  them  up  in  the  chimney  comer,  and  to  water  them  out 
there,  where  they  may  chance  to  take  fire  again.  Having  re- 
moved the  sticks,  place  the  chunks  and  hot  coals  on  the  back- 
log, and  throw  over  them  ashes  by  shovel-fulls,  till  you  have 
buried  them  entirely.  This  will  keep  the  fire  in  till  morning, 
when  you  uncover  it  to  kindle  with. 

For  burning  wood  in  a  sitting-room  or  chamber,  there  is 
nothing  better  than  a  Franklin  stove,  which  should  always  be 
provided  with  a  fender  to  fit  exactly  round,  that  the  floor  may 
not  be  endangered  by  the  coals  and  chunks  rolling  off  the 
hearth.  In  a  Franklin  stove  a  soap-stone  slab,  by  way  of  under 
back-log,  will  be  found  extremely  convenient  and  economical ; 
as  when  the  iron  becomes  hot,  it  consumes  a  large  wooden 
back-log  very  soon.  These  soap-stone  logs  can  be  procured 
from  the  stone-cutters,  who  will  fit  them  exactly  to  the  stove 
or  fire-place,  first  sending  a  man  to  take  the  measure.  The 
expense  is  trifling,  and  the  advantage  great. 

There  should  be  a  thick  iron  bar  to  lay  across  the  andirons, 
in  front  of  the  wood,  to  prevent  the  sticks  from  rolling  forward. 

If  the  tongs  become  twisted,  (as  is  often  the  case,)  you  may 


124 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


open  them,  by  taking  hold  low  down  near  the  points,  and 
pulling  them  apart. 

Always  sweep  the  hearth  after  mending  the  fire.  Have  in 
a  convenient  place  in  the  room,  a  brass  nail,  on  which  to  hang 
the  hearth-brush,  which  you  may  ornament  with  a  bow  of 
ribbon,  renewed  when  it  becomes  soiled.  Always  after  sweep- 
ing the  hearth,  look  carefully  at  the  bottom  of  the  brush  before 
you  hang  it  up.  Houses  have  taken  fire  from  bits  of  hot  coal 
being  carelessly  left  among  the  bristles  of  the  hearth-brush 
when  it  was  put  away.  We  knew  an  instance  in  Philadelphia, 
of  a  ladies  bag  having  caught,  from  hanging  on  the  same  nail 
with  a  hearth-brush  that  was  heedlessly  put  away  with  hot 
coals  in  it.  The  flame  spread  instantly  to  some  sheets  of 
music  that  lay  on  a  piano  which  stood  in  the  recess,  and  the 
instrument  (with  other  articles  of  furniture)  was  destroyed 
before  the  fire  could  be  extinguished ;  the  house  being  only 
saved  by  the  prompt  arrival  of  the  engines. 

All  chimneys  in  which  wood  is  burnt,  should  be  swept 
regularly  once  a  month.  In  country  places  where  chimney- 
sweepers are  not  to  be  procured,  it  is  customary  to  clear  the 
chimneys  of  the  soot,  by  setting  them  on  fire  with  a  bundle  of 
straw,  choosing  a  rainy-day  for  the  purpose,  or  one  in  which 
the  roof  is  covered  with  snow.  If  delayed  too  long,  so  as  to 
allow  a  great  accumulation  of  soot,  there  is  danger  that  in  this 
mode  of  cleaning,  the  fury  of  the  fire  may  burst  the  chimney. 

In  an  open  fire-place,  it  is  a  good  practice  every  morning 
before  the  fire  is  made  up,  to  take  a  long  broom  and  putting  it 
up  the  chimney  as  far  as  it  will  go,  to  sweep  down  all  the  soot 
that  is  within  reach.  This  should  be  done  regularly  in  a 
kitchen  chimney,  there  being  always  danger  of  flakes  of  soot 
falling  down  into  the  cooking  vessels. 

Previous  to  making  a  fire  for  the  first  time  in  the  season, 


FUEL,  FIRES,  ETC. 


123 


bum  in  the  hearth  a  quantity  of  waste  paper  or  straw.  This, 
by  producing  a  current  of  warm  air  in  the  cold  chimney,  will 
open  the  draught,  and  prevent  the  new  fire  from  smoking. 

CLOSE  STOVES.— Of  these,  there  are  various  sorts,  and 
each  sort  has  its  partizans.  The  most  common  for  burning 
coal,  are  those  generally  called  cannon  stoves,  from  their  cylin- 
drical form.  Those  of  sheet  iron  are  the  lowest  in  price,  and 
heat  a  room  very  rapidly.  They  are  excellent  where  only  a. 
temporary  or  occasional  fire  is  wanted.  Small  ones  may  be 
had  in  Philadelphia  for  four  or  five  dollars.  For  a  constant 
fire,  these  are  somewhat  troublesome,  as  without  frequent 
replenishing,  they  retain  the  heat  but  a  short  time.  Stoves  of 
the  same  form,  but  made  of  cast  iron,  continue  hot  much  longer ; 
and,  though  of  higher  price  are  cheapest  in  the  end,  as  being 
the  most  durable. 

Wherever  a  close  stove  is  used,  the  fire  place  should  be 
closed  up  with  a  tight-fitting  chimney  board,  having  a  round 
hole  cut  in  it  to  admit  the  stove-pipe  into  the  chimney.  This 
hole  must  be  well  edged  with  a  broad  binding  of  sheet  iron  or 
tin,  nailed  on  both  sides  of  the  board,  to  prevent  its  catching 
fire  from  the  heat  of  the  pipe ;  an  accident  that  will  certainly 
liappen  if  this  precaution  is  not  attended  to.  The  pipe  should 
be  taken  down  every  week,  carried  into  the  yard,  and  thoroughly 
cleaned  out. 

If  there  is  no  fire-place  in  the  room,  a  hole  must  be  cut  m 
the  chimney  wall  to  admit  the  pipe ;  or  a  pane  may  be  taken 
out  of  one  of  the  windows,  and  replaced  with  a  square  of  tin, 
having  a  hole  in  the  centre.  This  last  method,  however,  is 
liable  to  the  inconvenience  of  not  drawing  well  when  the  wind 
is  high,  the  smoke  being  then  blown  back,  for  which  the  only 
remedy  is  to  have  a  moveable  double  elbow  or  joint  at  the  very 
11* 


126 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


extremity  of  the  pipe.  A  large  sheet  of  iron  should  always 
be  closely  nailed  down  under  and  around  the  stove,  to  prevent 
the  floor  from  catching  fire  or  scorching  by  falling  coals,  or  by 
the  heat  of  the  stove  feet. 

If  you  have  a  close  stove  on  the  hearth  of  a  nursery,  let  it 
be  well  guarded  by  a  very  high  fender  of  a  semi-circular  form, 
the  ends  hooking  to  loops  or  staples  driven  into  the  wall. 
These  fenders  may  be  made  of  thick  iron  rods,  and  will  prevent 
accidents  from  children  running  or  falling  against  the  stove. 
If  of  close  small  wire,  they  will  look  the  handsomer ;  but  may 
exclude  too  much  of  the  heat,  and  are  also  less  lasting  than 
when  of  iron  rods. 

On  the  top  of  every  close  stove,  (whether  the  fire  is  of  coal 
or  wood,)  a  large  pan  of  water  should  be  constantly  kept ;  re- 
plenishing it  as  the  water  evaporates.  These  pans  are  best  of 
block  tin :  if  of  earthen  or  china,  the  heat  will  split  them. 
The  moisture  produced  by  this  vessel  of  water,  will  temper  the 
dryness  of  the  atmosphere  caused  by  the  close  heat  of  the 
stove,  which  may  otherwise  occasion  vertigo,  faintness,  or  other 
inconveniences. 

For  each  stove  there  should  be  a  shovel,  poker,  and  tongs : 
likewise  a  coal-scuttle  always  at  hand :  for  if  an  anthracite 
fire  is  allowed  to  get  too  low,  it  cannot  be  revived  without 
clearing  out  the  whole  contents  of  the  stove,  and  resorting  to 
fresh  kindlings,  &c.  Have  also,  hanging  by  a  loop  in  a  con- 
venient place,  a  small  calico  or  worsted  holder,  with  which  to 
guard  your  fingers  from  burning,  when  opening  the  door  of 
the  stove. 

Of  the  numerous  varieties  of  cooking  stoves,  and  of  the 
mode  of  managing  each,  it  is  impossible  to  attempt  a  descrip- 
tion. They  all  find  favour  in  some  kitchens,  and  lose  it  in 
others,  according  to  the  taste  and  habits  of  the  family  and 


FUEL,    FIRES,  ETC. 


127 


the  cooks.  We  have  heard  of  the  very  same  apparatus  succeed- 
ing admirably  in  one  house,  and  failing  entirely  in  another. 

We  can,  however,  speak  with  certainty  of  the  excellence  of 
a  wood  stove  of  the  common  ten-plate  form,  but  having  at  the 
far  end  of  the  top  or  upper  plate,  beyond  the  oven,  a  round 
hole  to  which  a  griddle  is  fitted  as  a  cover.  There  ig  also 
another  cover,  but  the  cook  may  stand  upright  beside  the 
stove,  and  bake  on  this  griddle  batter  cakes  or  any  thing  of  the 
kind.  When  the  griddle  is  no  longer  wanted,  it  may  be  re- 
placed, or  the  hole  covered  by  a  large  block  tin  boiler,  with  a 
steamer  on  the  top.  On  the  hearth  of  the  stove  is  a  place 
where  a  gridiron  for  broiling  can  be  set.  Any  thing  may 
be  baked  in  the  oven ;  and  in  a  tin  roaster,  placed  beside  the 
stove  when  hot,  allowing  it  a  longer  time  than  when  before  an 
open  fire,  meat  or  poultry  can  be  roasted.  With  this  stove 
there  is  never  the  slightest  difficulty,  and  no  cook  ever  objects 
to  it,  it  being  simple,  manageable,  and  sure.  The  price  (in- 
cluding boiler  and  griddle)  is  generally  from  fourteen  to  twenty 
dollars,  according  to  its  size. 

CHARCOAL. — Anthracite  cannot  be  ignited  without  the 
assistance  of  charcoal  or  of  chips  of  dry  wood.  For  this  pur- 
pose charcoal  is  much  the  best,  and  should  always  be  used  in 
preference,  when"  you  live  in  a  place  where  it  can  be  easily 
procured.  If  you  are  obliged  to  buy  it  in  rainy  weather,  let 
some  of  it  for  immediate  use  be  dried  before  the  fire,  as  if  damp 
it  will  not  kindle  well.  Chips  of  wood  cannot  at  all  times  be 
conveniently  obtained,  and  the  frequent  use  of  them  will  cause 
soot  to  collect  in  the  chimney ;  which  soot,  if  allowed  to  accu- 
mulate, may  catch  fire. 

Servants  should  not  be  allowed  to  waste  the  charcoal :  it  is 
only  necessary  to  use  it  once  a  day,  at  the  first  kindling  of  the 


128 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


fire ;  and  for  that  purpose  three  or  four  pieces  are  amply  suffi- 
cient. Two  barrels  of  charcoal,  if  properly  managed,  will  be 
quite  enough  for  each  ton  of  coal. 

Charcoal  is  extremely  useful  to  bum  in  portable  furnaces  for 
making  sweetmeats,  and  cooking  various  little  things.  In 
French  cooking  it  is  of  great  importance. 

The  best  portable  furnaces  are  those  of  cast  iron,  being  not 
liable  to  crack,  like  those  of  clay  or  earthen,  and  not  easily 
overset;  also  in  price  they  are  but  a  trifle  higher,  while  in 
convenience  and  durability  they  are  of  tenfold  superiority. 
With  a  charcoal  furnace  sweetmeats  may  be  made  out  of  doors, 
in  the  yard,  or  on  the  hearth  of  a  chamber.  Wherever  charcoal 
is  burnt,  the  fresh  air  should  be  freely  admitted,  by  keeping  a 
window-sash  raised  all  the  time ;  the  vapour  being  so  delete- 
rious, in  a  room  closely  shut  up,  as  to  cause  certain  death  by 
suffocation.  The  fumes  of  charcoal  in  a  close  apartment  have 
frequently  proved  fatal  in  a  few  minutes.  The  first  sensation 
is  that  of  slight,  but  increasing  weakness,  followed  by  a  giddi- 
ness in  the  head  and  flush  in  the  face  and  neck.  The  person 
thus  attacked  should  immediately  escape  into  the  open  air,  or 
he  will  be  seized  with  a  drowsiness,  followed  by  a  sense  of 
suffocation ;  and  if  speedy  relief  is  not  obtained,  death  will 
soon  ensue.  The  usual  remedies  are,  to  throw  cold  water  on 
the  head,  and  to  take  a  quantity  of  blood  immediately :  also 
applying  mustard  or  hartshorn  to  the  soles  of  the  feet. 

In  places  where  much  charcoal  is  burnt,  it  is  well  to  keep  a 
large  tub  or  bucket  constantly  filled  with  lime-water,  which 
will  rapidly  absorb  the  gas.  The  lime-water  must  be  renewed 
as  soon  as  it  becomes  impure.  This  impurity  will  be  known 
by  the  carbonate  of  lime  falling  to  the  bottom. 


FUEL,    FIRES,  ETC. 


129 


"anthracite  coal.— In  buying  anthracite  coal,  (as  in 
most  other  things,)  that  of  the  best  quality  is  eventually  the 
cheapest.  It  goes  further,  lasts  longer,  gives  out  more  heat, 
with  less  waste  from  slate-stones  and  ashes,  and  leaves  better 
cinders  when  it  is  extinguished ;  and  good  cinders  may  always 
be  turned  to  account  by  burning  them  over  again. 

Endeavour  to  obtain  coal  that  is  hard,  bright,  and  clean-look- 
ing. When  it  appears  soft,  porous,  of  a  rough,  dull,  and  dirty 
surface,  and  covered  with  a  profusion  of  damp  black  dust,  it  is 
never  good,  and  will  give  out  comparatively  little  heat,  being 
always  choked  with  its  own  ashes ;  also  the  cinders  will  be 
found  so  flaky  and  slaty  as  to  be  nearly  useless. 

The  most  convenient  size  for  coal  is  that  which  is  called  the 
broken  and  screened;  it  making  the  best  and  handsomest  fires. 
The  egg  coal  and  nut  coal  (which  is  small)  may  be  used  in 
close  stoves,  and  in  spring  and  autumn,  when  much  heat  is  not 
required. 

Three  tons  of  the  best  anthracite  will  generally  (if  well  ma- 
naged) be  found  sufficient  for  one  fire  during  the  season ;  at 
least  in  the  middle  States.  In  the  northern  and  eastern  section 
of  the  Union,  where  the  winters  arc  longer  and  colder,  a  larger 
allowance  will  be  requisite. 

The  ashes  of  anthracite  is  of  no  use  in  making  lye  or  soap. 
When  the  ash-hole  is  full,  a  cart  should  be  obtained  to  remove 
and  carry  away  its  contents. 


ANTHRACITE  COAL  GRATES  ^The  best  anthracite 

coal  grates  for  draught  and  comfort,  are  those  that  are  set  with 
only  one  aperture.  Some  grates  are  set  with  holes  or  openings 
to  convey  the  dust  and  ashes  up  the  chimney  or  down  into  the 
cellar.  By  this  means  the  draught  is  interrupted  or  divided, 
and  the  result  is  generally  a  dull,  cheerless  fire,  and  a  difficulty 


130 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


in  kindling  it.  There  should  be  no  aperture  except  that  at  the 
top,  which  in  width  ought  not  to  exceed  two  inches  and  a  half; 
if  wider,  it  will  not  draw  so  well.  Broad  shallow  grates  do  not 
heat  the  room  as  thoroughly  as  those  that  are  deep.  The 
deeper  the  body  of  coal,  the  more  perfectly  it  ignites,  and  the 
more  warmth  it  produces.  The  grate  should  not  hang  too  low, 
or  its  heat  will  soon  burn  out  the  pan  beneath.  The  bars 
should  be  rather  straight  than  curved  or  bowed  out,  and  not  too 
close  together.  Beads  or  knobs  between  the  lower  bars  are 
extremely  inconvenient  when  it  is  necessary  to  use  the  poker, 
to  which  they  are  such  an  impediment  that  they  render  it  almost 
impossible  to  clear  out  the  ashes  properly.  Fortunately  for 
those  who  had  to  clean  them,  brass  ornaments  on  coal  grates 
are  now  entirely  exploded.  They  are  only  found  on  old-fash- 
ioned grates,  and  then  it  is  well  to  paint  them  black.  The  best 
grates  are  of  cast  iron ;  being  more  durable  and  retaining  the 
heat  longer  than  those  of  sheet  iron. 

Every  coal-grate  should  be  furnished  with  a  poker,  shovel, 
and  tongs,  (a  blower  of  course,)  a  hearth-brush,  and  also  a  coal- 
scuttle. A  block  tin  bucket  or  deep  iron  pan  for  carrying  away 
the  ashes  will  also  be  found  indispensable,  unless  an  old  coal- 
scuttle is  used  for  this  purpose.  Ashes  should  never  be  put 
into  a  wooden  vessel,  as  there  may  be  heat  enough  remaining 
to  set  it  on  fire.  There  are  ash-buckets  of  iron,  with  a  strainer 
or  iron  sieve  fitting  in  about  halfway  up,  for  sifting  the  cinders 
at  once. 

Care  should  be  taken  that  the  blower  does  not  warp,  or  burn 
into  holes,  by  being  kept  on  too  long.  It  should  not  stand  in 
the  yard,  as  the  damp  will  certainly  rust  it.  When  taken  olF 
the  grate,  it  will  do  no  injury  if  placed  at  once  against  the 
wall  in  the  nearest  passage  or  entry.  A  blower-holder  of  cloth 
or  calico  should  be  kept  always  in  a  convenient  place,  to 


FUEL,    FIRES,  ETC. 


131 


prevent  the  handle  of  the  hot  blower  from  burning  the  hand. 
For  want  of  a  proper  holder,  we  have  known  a  newspaper  or  a 
handkerchief  caught  up  to  remove  a  very  hot  blower ;  and  the 
consequence  was  that  the  paper  took  fire,  or  the  handkerchief 
was  irreparably  scorched.  The  best  and  least  inflammable 
holders  are  made  of  folds  of  old  flannel,  covered  with  woollen 
cloth,  sewed  round  the  edges,  and  slightly  quilted  or  stitched 
through. 

A  large  coarse  thick  cloth  of  canvas,  tow,  woollen,  or  of  some 
very  strong  fabric,  should  be  provided  for  the  servant  to  lay 
down  in  front  of  the  grate  before  he  makes  the  fire.  This  will 
greatly  assist  in  keeping  the  carpet  clean,  and  on  it  he  should 
place  his  scuttle  and  otiier  apparatus.  The  cloth  should  have 
a  stout,  heavy  binding  all  round,  to  make  it  lie  smoothly  and 
keep  its  place. 

We  have  seen  in  some  houses  the  hearth-rug  turned  wrong 
side  up  to  prevent  the  colours  from  fading  from  the  heat  of  the 
fire.  This  is  not  a  good  practice,  as  (independent  of  its  very 
bad  appearance)  the  colours  will  be  much  more  injured  by  the 
dust  and  ashes  that  will  unavoidably  get  under  the  rug,  and  be 
thus  ground  into  the  nap  of  its  right  side. 

The  dross  or  crust  that  collects  at  the  back  of  the  grate 
should  be  every  morning  scraped  off  with  the  tongs  or  poker ; 
otherwise  it  will  accumulate  so  as  to  become  very  inconvenient, 
and  very  difficult  to  remove. 

The  dryness  of  atmosphere  caused  by  the  heat  of  anthracite, 
is  to  many  persons  a  source  of  great  inconvenience.  It  may 
easily  be  remedied  by  having  a  long  deep  narrow  vessel  of 
sheet  iron,  lined  with  block  tin,  made  to  fit  exactly  the  shelf 
or  top  of  the  grate,  and  kept  constantly  filled  with  water.  It 
should  be  three  inches  or  more  in  height,  and  may  be  painted 
black  on  the  outside. 


132 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


If  you  find  the  room  very  warm,  and  wish  to  increase  the 
evaporation  of  the  water,  you  may  do  so  by  plunging  into  it 
a  red-hot  poker. 

The  utensil  generally  called  in  England  a  footman,  is  very 
convenient  to  hang  in  front  of  a  coal  grate,  for  the  purpose  of 
heating  any  little  thing  that  may  be  required  in  an  eating-room, 
nursery,  or  chamber.  There  are  common  ones  made  of  iron,  and 
a  better  sort  of  brass.  They  hook  on  to  the  bars  of  the  grate, 
and  can  be  drawn  out  by  a  handle  to  the  requisite  distance 
from  the  fire.  Smoothing  irons  may  be  heated,  a  saucepan 
boiled,  water  warmed,  bread  toasted,  apples  roasted,  and  a  tea, 
or  coffee-pot,  or  a  small  kettle  kept  hot  on  a  footman.  The 
expense  of  this  article  is  a  trifle,  and  the  convenience  great. 
We  highly  recommend  it. 


COAL  GRATE  FIRES.— Previous  to  making  the  fire, 
remove  the  hearth-rug,  and  spread  down  in  front  of  the  grate  a 
large  coarse  cloth  kept  for  the  purpose. 

The  fire  having  been  entirely  extinguished  over  night,  (or  at 
least  long  enough  for  the  grate  to  become  quite  cold,)  empty  it 
completely  of  all  its  contents ;  first  raking  out  the  ashes  by 
inserting  the  poker  underneath,  between  the  bottom  bars.  Then 
take  out  all  the  cinders,  either  with  the  tongs  or  with  your 
hands :  the  latter  is  the  easiest  way  and  the  most  expeditious, 
and  your  hands  may  be  defended  by  a  pair  of  coarse  thick 
gloves.  As  you  take  out  the  cinders,  lay  them  aside  for  use : 
you  need  not,  of  course,  save  those  that  prove  to  be  pieces  of 
slate  or  stone,  or  that  are  only  soft  spungy  flakes.  If  the  coal 
is  of  the  best  kind,  very  few  bad  cinders  will  be  found  among 
it.  If  the  weather  is  extremely  cold,  it  will  be  well  when  the 
grate  is  empty,  to  burn  in  it  an  old  newspaper  or  some  straw ; 
this  will  heat  the  chill  air  of  the  chimney,  and  the  warm  cur- 


FUEL,    FIRES,  ETC. 


133 


rent  will,  by  improving  the  draught,  cause  the  fire  to  ignite  the 
sooner. 

When  the  grate  is  entirely  emptied,  sweep  it  out  clean  with 
a  hearth-brush;  and  once  a  week  at  least,  wash  it  out  with  a 
wet  cloth.  Remove  the  portable  iron  hearth  from  underneath, 
and  empty  the  ashes  into  an  iron  pan,  or  an  old  scuttle  brought 
for  the  purpose. 

To  build  the  fire. — First  put  into  the  bottom  a  very  slight 
layer  of  fresh  hard  coal  from  the  scuttle,  selecting  pieces  about 
half  the  size  of  an  egg,  or  rather  smaller ;  this  will  prevent  the 
charcoal  from  falling  through  as  it  burns.  Lay  upon  this 
flooring  of  anthracite,  a  large  shovel-full  of  bright  live  coals 
from  the  kitchen  fire.  They  should  be  selected  with  the  tongs, 
(so  as  to  be  free  from  ashes,)  and  carried  in  an  iron  fire-pan 
with  a  lid,  to  prevent  their  spilling  on  the  way.  No  house 
should  be  without  these  fire-pans. 

Having  put  on  the  live  coals  or  kindlers,  place  over  them 
three  or  four  good  pieces  of  charcoal,  laying  their  points  or 
ends  together,  so  as  to  form  a  sort  of  pyramid.  At  the  sides 
and  back  of  this  charcoal  put  a  few  rather  small  pieces  of  an- 
thracite ;  and  when  that  has  ignited,  fill  up  the  grate,  placing 
hard  coal  in  front  and  disposing  of  the  cinders  behind.  Place 
the  largest  pieces  of  anthracite  on  the  top,  and  heap  it  up  as 
high  as  the  back  wall  of  the  grate  will  allow.  Afterwards, 
put  on  the  blower,  (taking  care  that  it  fits  in  closely  at  the 
bottom,)  and  let  it  remain  till  all  the  fuel  in  the  grate  is  lighted, 
and  till  blazes  issue  from  between  the  coals  at  the  top. 

Let  the  servant  that  makes  the  fire  employ  himself  about  the 
room  or  in  its  vicinity,  till  it  is  time  to  remove  the  blower,  lest 
he  should  forget  and  leave  it  up  too  long;  in  which  case  it 
will  become  red-hot,  and  bend  and  warp,  or  perhaps  break ; 
also  the  intense  heat  will  burn  and  bend  the  bars  of  the  grate. 


134 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


and  exhaust  the  coal  too  soon.  If  red  spots  begin  to  appear 
on  the  blower,  it  should  be  taken  down  immediately.  When 
on  removing  the  blower,  the  mass  of  coal  is  found  to  have 
sunk  in  consequence  of  the  charcoal  burning  down,  some  more 
large  pieces  of  anthracite  should  be  laid  on  the  top.  It  may- 
then  be  left  to  itself,  till  the  usual  hour  for  replenishing  it; 
but  the  fire  should  not  be  permitted  to  sink  below  the  second 
bar  ;  whenever  it  does  so,  it  begins  to  deaden.  If  an  anthracite 
fire  is  allowed  to  get  very  low,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to 
revive ;  and  there  is  generally  no  other  way  than  to  empty  the 
grate  completely,  and  to  kindle  an  entirely  new  fire,  as  in  the 
morning. 

In  winter,  an  anthracite  fire  should  be  replenished  at  least 
every  six  hours ;  and  if  the  weather  is  very  cold,  and  the  grate 
not  large,  it  will  require  still  more  frequent  attention.  Gene- 
rally, with  a  grate  of  good  size  it  will  be  sufficient  (the  fire 
having  been  made  up  early  in  the  morning)  to  clear  out  the 
ashes,  and  put  on  fresh  coal  about  eleven  o'clock ;  then  at  six 
in  the  afternoon.  Whenever  the  fire  is  to  be  replenished,  first 
put  up  the  blower  to  screen  the  mantel-piece  and  surrounding 
furniture  from  the  dust  and  ashes,  and  then  rake  underneath  with 
the  poker  till  all  is  cleared  out  but  the  live  coals.  Then,  with 
the  poker,  work  the  cinders  about  over  the  holes  of  the  upper 
hearth,  to  let  the  ashes  fall  through  into  the  under  one ;  and 
rake  between  all  the  bars,  so  as  to  let  down  the  burning  coals, 
and  prevent  hollows  and  large  vacancies  in  the  body  of  the 
fire.  Next,  take  off  the  blower,  and  put  on  the  fresh  coal.  If 
you  have  cinders,  throw  them  on  behind  the  hard  coal,  as  they 
disfigure  the  fire  when  placed  in  front.  In  putting  on  fresh 
coal,  slope  it  upwards  from  the  top  bar,  so  as  to  form  a  hill 
behind,  against  the  back  wall.  If  the  grate  and  coal  are  both 
good,  and  the  fire  has  not  been  allowed  to  get  too  low,  you.need 


FUEL,  FIRES,  ETC. 


135 


hot,  on  replenishing  it,  put  up  the  blower;  as,  after  a  while,  it 
wiill  burn  very  well  without  it :  and  by  using  the  biOwer  too 
often,  or  too  long,  you  exhaust  the  coal,  and  diminish  its  heat. 

Let  the  hearth  be  swept  every  time  that  the  fire  is  touched. 
An  ashy  hearth  is  a  slovenly  and  disagreeable  object,  giving  an 
uncomfortable  aspect  to  the  whole  room. 

In  keeping  up  a  good  coal  fire,  regularity  is  indispensable. 
Even  if  it  does  not  look  low,  it  should  always  be  punctually 
replenished  at  the  stated  hours;  and  the  servant  should  be 
made  to  understand,  that  it  is  his  business  to  do  so,  without 
farther  telling;  otherwise,  there  is  much  chance  of  its  being 
frequently  neglected  and  forgotten.  Except  at  the  time  for 
regularly  replenishing  it,  there  is  rarely  any  necessity  of  touch- 
ing an  anthracite  fire.  Injudicious  poking  and  stirring  will 
put  it  out,  instead  of  improving  it. 

To  extinguish  it  completely  at  night,  take  the  tongs,  and  lift 
off  the  largest  and  best  coals,  one  at  a  time,  and  lay  them 
in  the  hearth.  Then  rake  up  on  each  side,  the  live  coals  that 
remain  in  the  body  of  the  grate ;  so  as  to  form  a  deep  hollow 
in  the  middle,  like  a  valley  between  two  hills.  By  this  last  pro- 
cess, (which  is  best  effected  with  the  point  of  the  shut  tongs,) 
the  most  glowing  fire  will  gradually  blacken  and  die  out  in  a 
quarter  of  an  hour;  and  the  grate  will  become  quite  cold ;  so 
that  in  the  morning,  it  can  be  conveniently  emptied,  previous 
to  building  the  new  fire. 

If  you  wish  a  good  fire  in  your  chamber  very  early  in  the 
morning,  let  it  be  extinguished  in  the  above  manner  about 
seven  in  the  evening.  About  ten,  or  when  all  the  cinders  are 
cold,  let  a  servant  clear  out  the  grate  completely,  and  build  up 
the  morning  fire,  as  before  directed ;  leaving  the  blower  and  the 
scuttle  in  the  room.  If  the  grate  is  good,  and  the  draught  as 
it  should  be,  the  whole  of  the  fuel  may  be  laid  on  at  once,  even 


136  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

to  piling  on  the  fresh  coal  at  the  top.  Some  waste  paper  or 
shavings  should  be  put  in  with  the  charcoal.  At  daylight,  the 
occupant  of  the  chamber  can  light  the  fire  himself,  by  applying 
a  bit  of  paper  to  the  flame  of  the  night-lamp,  or  with  a  lucifer 
match.  Then,  putting  up  the  blower,  he  may  return  to  bed, 
and  remain  there  till  the  fire  is  in  successful  progress ;  which 
will  be  in  a  very  short  time ;  and  on  removing  the  blower,  he 
will  have  a  warm  room  for  washing  and  dressing  himself. 

The  practice  that  prevails  in  many  families  of  never  allow- 
ing their  coal  fires  to  be  extinguished  during  the  whole  winter, 
is  not  a  good  one.  If  the  object  is  to  save  charcoal,  we  think 
it  will  be  found,  on  calculation,  that  the  additional  anthracite 
required  to  keep  up  the  fire  all  night,  will  more  than  balance 
the  expense  of  fresh  kindling  every  morning ;  and  besides  a  per- 
petual fire  is  almost  perpetually  dull  and  ashy.  Also,  the  unre- 
mitting heat  produces  cock-roaches,  and  other  disgusting  in- 
sects ;  and  in  summer,  if  a  coal-fire  is  kept  up  ail  night  in  the 
kitchen,  it  will  add  greatly  to  the  general  warmth  of  the  house ; 
making  the  chambers  in  the  vicinity  of  the  kitchen  unwhole- 
some and  almost  intolerable.  Another,  and  very  palpable  objec- 
tion is,  that  unless  a  coal-grate  or  stove  is  completely  cleared  out 
once  a  day,  by  removing  every  particle  of  cinders  and  ashes, 
and  sweeping  out  the  whole  inside  with  a  brush,  no  poking  or 
raking  that  can  be  done,  will  prevent  the  fire  from  looking  all 
day,  choked  and  ashy  at  the  bottom,  and  there  will  be  very 
little  glow  even  at  the  top,  unless  for  a  short  time  directly  after 
the  removal  of  the  blower;  and  of  course  the  fire  will  not 
throw  out  half  as  much  heat  as  when  burning  clear  and  brightly 
all  through. 

Coal,  to  burn  well  in  a  grate,  should  not  be  smaller  than  an 
egg,  or  larger  than  a  moderate-sized  orange.  A  skillful  fire- 
maker  will  fit  in  the  large  and  small  pieces,  so  as  to  consume 


FUEL,  FIRES,  ETC. 


137 


both  to  advantage.  We  have  known  this  done  by  servants 
who  took  great  pride  in  the  excellence  of  their  parlour  fires ; 
for  instance,  a  coloured  man,  who  always  assorted  his  coal, 
and  brought  it  up  separately  in  two  scuttles,  reserving  his 
finest  pieces  for  the  front  of  the  fire,  and  calling  them  his 
facers. 

Coal  should  not  be  thrown  on  from  the  scuttle.  It  is  best 
to  put  on  the  pieces  with  the  hand,  or  with  the  tongs.  There 
are  small  iron  tongs  made  for  the  purpose.  There  should  be  a 
coal-scuttle  for  every  fire-place. 

Use  the  cinders  as  you  go  along,  and  let  every  grate  consume 
its  own  cinders,  which  maybe  freed  from  the  ashes  by  working 
them  about  with  the  poker  or  tongs  on  the  upper  or  perforated 
hearth.  It  will  not  then  be  necessary  to  carry  them  out  to  be 
sifted  ;  and  the  servants  will  not  then  have  a  chance  of  throw- 
ing them  away  to  avoid  the  trouble  of  sifting.  In  some  fami- 
lies, however,  where  the  servants  can  be  depended  on,  it  is  the 
custom  (and  a  very  good  one)  to  have  the  cinders  taken  into  the 
yard  and  washed  in  an  old  bucket,  pouring  on  water  and  then 
draining  it  off.  This  makes  them  look  black,  and  causes 
them  to  burn  better. 

When  the  heat  of  an  anthracite  fire  is  too  great,  (for  instance, 
late  in  the  spring  or  early  in  the  autumn,)  it  can  be  diminished 
without  extinguishing,  by  taking  the  tongs  or  poker  and  press- 
ing down  hard  the  coals  on  the  top  ;  or  by  taking  off  a  few  of 
the  largest  pieces ;  or  by  throwing  qn,  towards  the  back  of  the 
grate,  a  small  quantity  of  the  fine  powdered  coal-dust,  com- 
monly called  slack.  Many  persons,  to  diminish  the  heat,  have 
a  thick  paste  of  ashes  and  water  prepared  in  the  cellar,  and 
spread  with  a  shovel  over  the  top  of  the  grate-fire.  It  forms  a 
crust,  under  which  the  fire  will  burn  dimly  all  day. 
♦     In  making  a  fire  for  the  first  time  in  the  season,  there  is 

12* 


138 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


mostly  a  difficulty  from  the  coldness  of  the  chhnney.  This 
may  always  be  remedied,  and  the  draught  opened,  by  filling 
the  grate  with  old  newspapers  or  other  waste  paper,  (as  before 
mentioned,)  and  setting  them  on  fire;  or,  if  more  convenient, 
you  may  make  a  blaze  with  a  few  handfuls  of  straw  or  shavino-s. 

Anthracite  fires,  if  managed  exactly  according  to  the  preced- 
ing directions,  will  be  found  more  comfortable,  more  economi- 
cal, handsomer  in  appearance,  and  in  every  respect  more  satis- 
factory than  if  conducted  in  any  other  manner.  This  we  know 
by  experience. 

When  the  practice  is  persisted  in  of  keeping  up  the  fire  all 
night,  the  bottom  should  be  raked  and  fresh  coal  put  on  the 
last  thing  before  going  to  bed.  Some  persons  have  the  scuttle 
left  in  the  room,  that  they  may  replenish  the  grate  at  any  time 
in  the  night.  Early  in  the  morning,  it  should  be  well  raked 
with  the  poker,  to  clear  out  as  much  of  the  ashes  as  possible, 
and  then  filled  up  to  the  top  with  fresh  coal.  Afterwards  put 
up  the  blower,  and  let  it  remain  till  all  is  well  ignited.  If,  in 
the  morning,  the  fire  that  has  been  burning  all  night  is  found 
very  dull  and  low,  it  will  be  difficult  to  revive  it  without  putting 
on  some  bits  of  charcoal  or  small  wood,  and  letting  them  burn 
a  while  before  the  hard  coal  is  added. 

Never  at  any  time  put  on  fresh  coal  without  first  raking  out 
the  bottom  of  the  grate  and  between  the  lower  bars  with  the 
poker.  You  may,  during  the  day,  dispose  of  the  ashes  by 
raising  the  upper  part  of  the  iron  hearth,  and  letting  them  fall 
down  into  the  under  part  below.  Then  replace  the  upper  or 
perforated  hearth  evenly,  and  sweep  it  clean. 

Upon  no  occasion  (whether  the  fire  is  of  wood  or  coal) 
should  the  hearth  be  allowed  to  remain  dirty  or  disfignred  with 
ashes.  It  will  give  a  slovenly  and  miserable  look  even  to  the 
most  elegantly  furnished  apartment,  while  a  clean,  well-swept 


FUEL,   FIRES,  ETC. 


13® 


hearth  imparts  an  air  of  cleanness,  neatness,  and  gentility  to  a 
room  of  very  moderate  pretensions.  An  ever-dirty  hearth,  and 
a  grate  always  choked  with  cinders  and  ashes,  may  be  taken  as 
almost  infallible  evidence  of  bad  housekeeping. 

COAL  STOVE  FIRES.— To  make  a  good  new  fire  in  a 
close  coal  stove,  begin  by  completely  clearing  out  the  pan  or 
place  that  holds  the  fuel,  leaving  no  remains  of  cinders  or  ashes. 
Put  at  the  bottom  a  slight  layer  of  small  fresh  coal,  and  then 
a  shovelful  of  clear,  bright,  glowing  coals  from  the  kitchen, 
seeing  that  there  is  no  ashes  among  them.  On  these  live  coals 
you  may  lay  three  or  four  pieces  of  charcoal  and  some  good 
cinders,  and  then  fill  up  the  pan  or  pot  with  fresh  hard  coal, 
heaping  it  on  the  top.  The  coal  for  a  stove  should  be  the  egg 
or  nut  size.  Shut  the  large  door  of  the  stove,  (leaving  the  little 
one  open,)  and  you  will  soon  have  a  fine  fire. 

After  a  while  it  will  sink,  in  consequence  of  the  charcoal 
having  burned  down :  then  directly  put  some  more  hard  coal 
on  the  top  ;  and  be  careful  that  the  fire  never  gets  too  low,  lest 
it  be  found  impossible  to  revive  it  without  clearing  out  the 
whole,  and  building  it  entirely  anew. 

If  you  cannot  obtain  charcoal,  you  may  kindle  with  pieces 
of  dry  wood  split  small,  and  laid  on  the  hot  coals  with  a  hand- 
ful of  shavings  or  waste  paper. 

You  may  somewhat  diminish  the  heat  by  closing  the  little 
door,  and  thereby  lessening  the  strength  of  the  draught ;  and 
you  may  lessen  it  still  more  (and  indeed  gradually  extinguish 
the  fire)  by  setting  the  large  door  wide  open.  You  may,  if 
expedient,  put  out  the  fire,  almost  immediately,  by  parting  it 
on  the  top  with  the  poker  or  tongs,  so  as  to  leave  a  deep  hollow 
in  the  centre. 

In  a  small  room,  it  is  well  to  surround  three  sides  of  a  close 


140 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Stove  with  one  of  the  thick  block-tin  screens  made  for  the  pur- 
pose. It  will  prevent  the  heat  from  injuring  the  wall  or  the 
furniture. 

A  stove,  as  well  as  a  grate,  should  be  thoroughly  cleared 
out  at  least  once  in  twenty-four  hours.  What  is  called  a  per- 
petual fire,  or  such  as  many  persons  boast  of  continuing  unex- 
tinguished all  winter,  is  wasteful  of  coal,  and  is  never  so  bright 
and  strong  as  that  which  is  entirely  renewed  every  day,  without 
any  remains  of  the  old  fire.  If  you  wish  a  fine  fire  early  in  the 
morning,  let  the  stove  be  entirely  emptied  over-night,  and  the 
new  fuel  laid  or  arranged  in  the  manner  described,  the  whole 
being  built  at  once,  putting  some  shavings  or  waste  paper  with 
the  charcoal.  Then,  with  a  match  lighted  at  a  night  lamp, 
you  may  ignite  it  at  dawn,  or  whenever  you  please ;  and  you 
will  have  an  excellent  fire  and  a  warm  room  to  wash  and  dress 
in,  while  the  water  in  the  tin  pan  on  the  top  will  have  gradu- 
ally become  hot  enough  to  use  for  any  needful  purpose. 

If,  however,  you  prefer  keeping  up  the  fire  all  night,  having 
raked  the  ashes  well  from  the  bottom,  fill  up  with  fresh  coal 
before  you  go  to  bed,  and  have  the  scuttle  at  hand  to  replenish 
it,  if  you  think  proper.  In  the  morning,  rake  it  well  out  at  the 
bottom,  and  add  fresh  coal.  If  you  find  the  fire  very  low  and 
dull,  put  on  some  charcoal,  or  chips,  before  filling  it  up  with 
the  anthracite. 

Be  very  careful  that  the  joints  of  the  stove-pipe  fit  tightly. 
Should  they  happen  to  open  or  gape  apart  in  the  night,  when 
there  is  fire  in  the  stove,  the  vapour  escaping  from  the  coal 
may  have  the  most  deleterious  effect  (even  to  suffocation)  on 
persons  sleeping  in  a  close  chamber. 

On  such  occasions,  when  life  is  not  entirely  extinct,  and  a 
physician  cannot  be  procured  immediately,  animation  may  be 
restored  by  promptly  resorting  to  the  following  remedies. 


FUEL,    FIRES,  ETC. 


141 


Open  instantly  the  doors  and  windows,  and  allow  the  air  to 
pass  freely  over  the  face  of  the  patient ;  but  keep  his  body 
covered  with  the  bed-clothes,  under  which  let  his  skin  be 
rubbed  hard,  first  with  the  hand,  and  then  with  warm  cloths  as 
soon  as  they  can  be  procured.  Make  him  swallow  as  soon  as 
possible  a  half-tea-spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  mixed  in  a  tea- 
cup of  boiling  water,  and  administered  whenever  it  is  cool 
enough  to  be  taken  without  scalding  the  mouth.  As  soon  as 
he  can  eat,  he  should  have  food  seasoned  with  plenty  of  pepper 
and  mustard.  If  he  is  made  to  inhale  oxygen  gas,  he  will 
recover  the  sooner. 

The.  pipe  of  a  coal-stove  should  be  taken  down  about  once 
a  fortnight,  for  the  purpose  of  clearing  out  the  ashes  that  have 
been  drawn  up  into  it ;  and  which,  if  allowed  to  remain,  will 
impede  the  draught,  and  prevent  the  fire  from  burning  well. 

The  coal  for  a  close  stove  should  be  small.  For  a  large 
stove,  the  egg  coal ;  for  a  small  one,  the  nut. 

BITUMINOUS  OR  ENGLISH  COAL.— Coal  found  in 
the  western  section  of  the  United  States,  is  generally  bitumi- 
nous; so  also  is  that  imported  from  England.  It  is  much 
softer  than  the  anthracite,  emits  more  smoke,  produces  more 
dust  and  ashes,  and  the  heat  is  far  less  intense,  though  the  blaze 
is  very  bright.  The  grates  used  for  burning  it  should  be  set 
open,  with  the  whole  space  vacant  from  the  bars  upwards, 
instead  of  filling  it  up  with  fire  brick,  and  leaving  only  a  nar- 
row slip  or  aperture,  as  for  anthracite.  To  kindle  the  fire  in 
the  morning,  having  cleared  out  the  grate,  spread  a  few  good 
cinders  over  the  bottom ;  then  bring  some  hot  coals  from  the 
kitchen,  and  lay  on  them  a  few  slips  of  pine  wood  :  afterwards 
fill  up  the  grate  with  fresh  coal  from  the  scuttle,  and  blow  with 
a  pair  of  bellows  till  the  fire  is  well  ignited* 


142 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Or  you  may  kindle  it  without  live  coals,  by  applying  to  the 
pine  sticks  lighted  brimstone  matches. 

A  fire  of  bituminous  coal  must  be  replenished  much  more 
frequently  than  one  of  anthracite.  When  it  looks  dull  and 
has  burnt  hollow,  stir  it  underneath  with  the  poker,  and  then 
have  some  fresh  coal  put  on.  If  you  wish  to  keep  it  burning 
slowly  all  night,  throw  on  the  top  a  sufficient  quantity  of  slack 
or  coal-powder  from  the  cellar. 

To  extinguish  it  at  night,  take  off  the  best  coals,  and  then 
rake  out  all  the  rest  with  the  poker.  If  necessary,  throw  on 
some  water. 

In  English  houses,  the  servant  that  kindles  the  kitchen  fire 
is  always  provided  with  a  tinder-box  of  tin,  having  on  the  lid 
a  socket  which  holds  a  piece  of  candle.  This  lid  is  made  to 
come  off;  and  in  the  cavity  of  the  box  beneath,  is  kept  a  quan- 
tity of  tinder  made  from  rags ;  a  flint,  and  a  piece  of  steel  with 
a  handle  to  it;  also  a  few  sulphur  matches.  Before  daylight 
in  a  winter  morning,  the  fire-maker  (having  taken  the  tinder- 
box  up  stairs  with  her)  strikes  out  with  the  flint  and  steel  a 
few  sparks,  which,  catching  the  tinder,  enable  her  to  ignite  a 
match,  by  which  she  lights  the  candle ;  and  with  the  candle 
she  goes  down  and  kindles  the  fire,  by  applying  lighted  matches 
to  some  little  slips  of  wood,  which  she  places  at  the  bottom  of 
the  grate. 

In  this  manner  a  fire  of  bituminous  coal  may  be  made,  if 
wanted,  at  any  time  in  the  night. 

COKE. — This  is  the  state  in  which  the  coal  used  in  manu- 
facturing gas  is  left,  after  the  bituminous  matter  has  been 
extracted.  It  remains  in  large,  light,  porous,  black  lumps,  and 
is  a  very  convenient  and  economical  fuel  for  spring  and  autumn, 
and  for  rooms  where  only  a  moderate  heat  is  required.    It  has 


FUEL,  FIRES,  ETC. 


143 


less  vapour  than  any  other  coal,  (being  not  oppressive  even  to 
delicate  lungs,)  and  can  be  ignited  sooner;  making  a  bright, 
glowing,  and  cheerful  fire,  so  similar  in  appearance  to  that  of 
unthracite,  that  few  persons  (unless  they  are  told)  can  perceive 
any  visible  difference.  Though  excellent  for  spring  and  autumn, 
(as  we  know  from  experience,)  and  for  the  few  chilly  wet  days 
that  occasionally  occur  in  summer,  we  do  not  recommend  coke 
in  those  sections  of  the  Union  where  the  climate  is  severe :  as  to 
keep  up  a  large  steady  coke-fire  in  extremely  cold  weather,  all 
day  and  all  the  evening,  will  require  the  grate  to  be  replenished 
with  as  much  as  it  can  hold  six  or  seven  times,  at  least:  and 
still  more  frequently  in  a  close  stove.  For  the  first  early 
autumn  or  late  spring  fires,  one  grate  full  of  coke  will  be  suffi- 
cient for  the  day ;  or  for  the  evening,  (if  made  on  at  dusk,) 
heating  the  room  so  well  at  first,  that  it  continues  comfortable 
long  after  the  fire  has  died  out.  In  families  where  an  open 
grate  or  range  for  coal,  is  used  in  the  kitchen,  coke  has  been 
found  very  good  fuel  to  cook  with  in  the  summer,  causing  much 
less  heat  than  anthracite  in  the  lower  part  of  the  house;  and 
it  is  so  soon  ignited  in  the  morning,  that  its  incapability 
of  burning  all  night  without  replenishing,  is  little  or  no 
disadvantage. 

In  Philadelphia  (where  coke  is  very  cheap)  it  can  be 
obtained  by  application  at  the  office  of  the  Gas  Company  in 
the  Franklin  Institute,  paying  always  in  advance.  It  is  well 
to  order  a  cart-load  at  once,  as  the  price  for  hauling  from  the 
gas-works  is  the  same  for  ten  bushels  as  for  fifty. 

To  make  a  coke  fire,  let  the  grate  be  cleared  completely, 
raking  out  all  remains  of  the  last  fire,  and  sweeping  it  clean 
with  a  hearth  brush.  Then  cover  the  bottom  of  the  grate  with 
a  slight  layer  of  small  bits  of  coke,  (cinders  will  do,)  and 
place  thereon  a  shovel  full  of  bright,  clear,  live  coals  for 


144 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


kindling.  On  these  coals  lay  three  or  four  pieces  of  charcoal, 
(avery  little  will  suffice,)  or  a  few  pieces  of  dry  kindling  wood, 
split  small.  If  you  use  wood  instead  of  charcoal,  it  is  well  to 
add  a  few  shavings  or  some  waste-paper.  Then  fill  up  the  grate 
at  once  with  coke,  and  put  up  the  blower,  fitting  it  closely  in  at 
the  bottom.  In  five  minutes  you  may  remove  the  blower, 
without  any  risk  of  the  fire  not  igniting  well ;  but  if  you  leave 
it  up  eight  or  ten  minutes,  you  will,  on  removing  it,  find  the 
whole  of  the  coke  in  a  bright  glow,  and  the  room  will  be  very 
warm  immediately. 

With  coke,  as  with  anthracite,  (unless  you  intend  it  to  die 
out,)  you  must  take  care  not  to  let  the  fire  get  too  low  in  the 
grate.  In  replenishing  it,  after  filling  up  the  grate  with  fresh 
coke,  rake  between  the  bars,  and  then  put  on  the  blower  for  a 
few  moments,  while  you  rake  well  at  the  bottom,  till  the  ashes 
is  thoroughly  expelled :  then  empty  the  iron  hearth  into  the 
ash-pan  beneath,  and  remove  the  blower,  as  the  fire  will  no 
longer  require  it. 

To  extinguish  the  fire,  lift  off  with  the  tongs  any  large  pieces 
of  coke  that  may  still  be  burning ;  lay  them  on  the  hearth, 
where  they  will  die  out  immediately,  and  save  them  for  cinders 
to  burn  next  day.  Next,  with  the  tongs  or  poker  beat  down 
the  mass  of  hot  coals,  and  then  part  them  in  the  centre,  leaving 
a  deep  hollow  down  to  the  bottom  of  the  grate ;  or,  if  they  are 
but  few,  work  and  stir  them  about  a  little,  and  they  will  soon 
go  out. 

In  winter,  if  you  have  both  coke  and  anthracite,  it  is  a  good 
way  to  make  the  earliest  or  morning  fire  of  coke,  (as  it  ignites 
so  soon,)  and  then,  when  it  has  burnt  down  below  the  upper 
bar,  replenish  with 'anthracite,  continuing  the  hard  coal  during 
the  day  and  evening. 

On  an  iron  footman  or  shelf,  hooked  on  to  the  grate, 


FUEL,    FIRES,  ETC. 


145 


you  may  soon  boil  a  tea-kettle  or  sauce-pan  before  a  coke 
fire. 


TO  HEAT  A  BRICK  OVEN—Ovens  should  be  heated 
with  light  dry  wood.  Chesnut  is  best;  but  if  it  cannot  be 
procured,  you  may  substitute  pine.  It  must  be  split  up  small; 
not  a  stick  being  left  thicker  than  your  wrist.  Fagg'ots,  or 
bundles  of  dry  slender  branches  gathered  up  in  the  woods,  are 
used  for  ovens  when  nothing  else  can  be  obtained.  The  oven 
wood  should  be  all  ready  the  evening  before  it  is  wanted  for 
baking,  that  the  oven  may  be  heated  early.  Jn  putting  in  the 
wood,  place  it  near  the  mouth  or  door  of  the  oven,  (for  there 
the  draught  is  strongest,)  and  lay  the  sticks  across  each  other 
in  a  square  pile,  as  children  do  when  they  play  at  building 
houses.  Put  in  sufficient  oven  wood  at  once ;  for  instance,  a 
large  arm-full  or  more.  The  door  of  the  oven  must  be  left 
open  all  the  time  the  fire  is  burning.  Kindle  the  wood  with 
some  live  coals  and  waste-paper,  or  shavings.  After  it  has 
been  burning  well  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  with  a  long 
stick  or  pole  push  the  fire  farther  back  towards  the  centre  of 
the  oven,  and  stir  and  quicken  it  occasionally.  When  the  fire 
is  reduced  entirely  to  a  bed  of  coals,  and  when  the  coals  look 
dull  and  whitish,  as  if  dying  out,  remove  them  from  the  oven 
with  a  large  shovel  or  scraper.  Next,  take  along  stick,  to  one 
end  of  which  is  fastened  a  coarse  wet  cloth,  (a  wet  mop  is  still 
better,)  and  with  it  wipe  out  the  floor  of  the  oven.  Then  let  it 
rest  for  about  five  minutes.  To  try  the  heat,  throw  in  a  piece 
of  paper;  and  if  it  bums  instantly,  the  oven  is  too  hot,  and  you 
must  wait  a  little  longer.  A  thermometer,  held  for  a  minute 
within  the  oven,  is  a  good  regulator;  but,  after  all,  experience 
is  the  best.  The  things  to  be  baked  should  be  quite  ready  by 
the  time  the  oven  is  hot.  You  must  have  a  peel,  or  long-hau- 
IS 


146 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


died,  broad,  wooden  shovel,  to  slip  under  them  when  you  set 
them  in  or  take  them  out,  that  the  heat  may  not  bum  your 
hands.  As  soon  as  they  are  in,  shut  closely  the  door  of  the 
oven.  Pies  and  large  loaf-cakes  (except  gingerbread,  which 
burns  easily)  require  a  hotter  oven  than  bread.  It  is  best  to 
bake  the  bread  by  itself;  for  it  may  be  injured  by  letting  in 
the  cold  air,  if  you  open  the  oven  door  to  put  in  or  take  out  the 
other  things.  Once  only  will  be  sufficient  to  look  at  the  bread 
while  it  is  baking.  If  the  loaves  contain  a  quarter  of  a  peck 
of  flour  each,  they  will  require  two  hours  at  least  to  bake. 
During  that  time,  it  will  be  only  necessary  to  look  at  them 
once,  (which  should  be  at  the  end  of  the  first  hour,)  and  then 
turn  them  round,  that  they  may  bake  evenly ;  otherwise  those 
parts  of  them  that  are  nearest  to  the  fire-place  at  the  side  of  the 
oven,  will  be  done  too  much  in  proportion  to  the  rest.  It  is 
best  always  to  bake  bread  in  iron  pans,  sprinkled  with  flour, 
or  slightly  buttered.  When  they  are  taken  out  of  the  oven, 
wrap  each  loaf  in  a  clean,  coarse,  wet  towel,  and  stand  them 
up  on  end  to  cool  gradually.  This  will  prevent  the  crust  from 
becoming  too  hard. 

If  you  are  baking  little  cakes  or  tarts,  look  in  at  them  in  ten 
minutes  after  they  are  put  into  the  oven,  to  see  if  they  are 
nearly  done.  A  large  plum-cake  or  fruit  cake  will  require 
six  or  seven  hours  to  bake ;  and  it  should  not  be  taken  out  till 
the  oven  has  grown  quite  cold.  Indeed  it  will  be  the  better 
for  staying  in  all  night,  keeping  the  oven  closed.  If  a  fruit 
cake  cools  too  fast  after  baking,  it  will  become  doughy  and 
heavy.    Keep  it  covered  with  a  cloth  till  quite  cold. 

The  floor  of  an  oven  is  best  of  tile,  it  being  smoother  than  brick. 


CHIMNEYS  ON  FIRE,— When  you  have  reason  to  sup- 
pose that  a  chimney  is  dirty,  keep  the  fire  low,  as  a  large  blaze 


FUEL,    FIRES,    ETC.  14^ 

will  be  very  likely  to  ignite  the  soot.  Should  it,  nevertheless, 
take  fire,  you  will  be  immediately  apprized  of  it  by  the  loud 
roaring  noise,  and  the  falling  down  of  flakes  of  burning  soot.  If 
there  is  no  water  in  the  room,  have  a  bucket-full  brought  imme- 
diately, so  as  to  put  out  all  the  fire  in  the  hearth ;  and  while 
waiting  for  the  water,  throw  on  all  the  salt  that  may  be  at  hand ; 
or,  what  will  be  still  better,  a  handful  of  flour  of  sulphur,  as  soon 
as  you  can  obtain  it.  The  sulphur  will  frequently  extinguish 
even  the  fire  in  the  chimney,  if  it  has  not  yet  become  large.  As 
long  as  it  is  burning,  take  care  to  keep  all  the  doors  and  windows 
tightly  shut,  and  hold  up  closely  before  the  fire-place  a  blanket 
or  some  other  woollen  article,  for  instance,  a  table-cover  or 
hearth-rug,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air. 

If  the  roof  is  dry,  let  some  persons  go  out  at  the  trap-door, 
carrying  with  them  buckets  of  water  to  pour  all  round,  so  as 
to  prevent  its  catching  from  the  sparks  that  issue  from  the 
chimney. 

In  Philadelphia,  any  person  that  allows  his  chimney  to  get 
on  fire,  is  liable  to  a  fine  of  five  dollars;  it  being  one  of  the 
regulations  of  the  city,  that  all  chimneys  where  wood  is  burnt 
shall  be  swept  once  a  month. 


ACCIDENTS  FROM  FIRE.-Do  not  allow  yourself  to 
contract  the  inexcusable  habit  of  reading  in  bed  at  night.  It 
never  fails  to  injure  the  eyes;  but  there  is  a  still  greater  evil 
attending  it,  the  probability  of  your  insensibly  falling  asleep, 
and  the  light  catching  the  bed  clothes,  and  consequently, 
endangering  your  own  life,  and  perhaps  setting  the  house  on 
fire.  The  head  of  the  family  should  see  that  no  one  of  its 
members  ever  indulges  in  this  senseless  and  sometimes  fatal 
practice. 

In  escaping  from  a  room  on  fire,  creep  or  crawl  along  with 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

your  face  close  to  the  ground,  as  near  the  floor  the  air  is  purest, 
and  there  is  less  danger  of  being  suffocated  with  the  smoke- 
Persons  frequently  are  saved  by  letting  themselves  down  from 
the  window,  by  means  of  a  knotted  rope,  or  by  sliding  down 
a  sheet  secured  at  one  of  the  upper  corners. 

Children  may  be  saved  from  the  flames  of  a  burning  house, 
by  means  of  large,  coarse  woollen  bags,  with  a  strong  rope 
attached  to  each :  these  bags  should  be  kept  constantly  in  the 
sleeping-rooms,  and  in  case  of  fire,  a  child  may  be  put  into 
each,  (leaving  only  a  small  breathing  place  open  at  the  top,) 
and  then  lowered  down  from  the  window. 

When  a  house  is  on  fire,  beds  should  be  placed  under  the 
windows,  to  receive  the  persons  who  are  compelled  to  save 
themselves  by  leaping  out. 

Children,  in  winter,  should  be  dressed  entirely  in  clothes  of 
woollen  or  worsted,  as  these  are  less  liable  to  catch  fire  and 
blaze,  than  linen  or  cotton.  Even  their  aprons  should  be  of 
worsted;  for  instance,  bombazet  or  merino.  Small  children 
should  never  be  left  alone  in  a  room  in  which  there  is  fire ;  and 
their  sleeping  apartments  should,  on  no  account,  have  the  doors 
locked.  Every  winter,  we  have  at  least  one  instance  of  a  little 
child  perishing  horribly,  by  the  mother  leaving  it  alone,  tied  in 
a  chair,  and  placed  near  the  fire,  while  she  is  engaged  in  a 
distant  part  of  the  house,  or  perhaps  gone  out  on  some  errand. 
This  is  a  practice  too  dangerous  for  any  circumstances  to 
excuse.  So  is  that  of  the  parents  going  out  in  the  evening, 
locking  up  the  house,  and  leaving  all  the  rest  of  the  family  in 
bed.  Such  parents,  on  coming  home,  may  find  their  house 
on  fire,  and  their  children  perishing  in  the  flames. 

If  the  dress  of  a  female  catches  fire  when  she  is  alone,  if  she 
cannot  extinguish  it  by  squeezing  it  in  her  hands,  let  her  im- 
mediately ring  the  bell  violently,  or  knock  on  the  floor ;  but. 


FUEL,  FIRES,  ETC 


1^ 


if  possible,  avoid  opening  the  door  to  run  out,  as  admitting  the 
air,  will  increase  the  flame.  She  should  throw  herself  directly 
on  the  floor,  and  endeavour  to  smother  the  fire  by  wrapping 
the  hearth-rug  closely  round  her,  or  by  tearing  up  a  part  of  the 
carpet,  if  there  is  no  woollen  cloth  at  hand. 

In  some  families  a  large  piece  of  baize  is  kept  in  every  room, 
for  the  purpose  of  extinguishing  accidental  fire ;  and  the  prao- 
tice  is  a  good  one.  In  a  chamber,  a  blanket  can  be  immediately 
snatched  from  the  bed,  and  used  for  this  purpose."  A  man  may 
smother  out  fire  in  the  dress  of  a  female,  by  taking  oflf  his  cloth 
coat,  and  wrapping  it  round  her. 

Children  should  be  early  taught  how  to  squeeze  or  press  out 
a  spark,  when  it  happens  to  reach  any  part  of  their  dress,  and 
also  that  running  out  into  the  air  will  cause  it  to  blaze  imme- 
diately. They  should  also  learn,  that  it  is  the  nature  of  flame 
to  ascend  or  run  upwards. 

The  first  application  to  a  bum  should  be  sweet  oil,  putting 
St  on  immediately,  till  other  remedies  can  be  prepared.  Cotton 
should  never  be  applied.  It  increases  the  pain  and  inflammation. 
For  a  slight  burn  or  scald,  some  raw  potato  scraped  fine,  and 
tied  on  the  place,  (renewing  it  at  intervals,)  is  an  excellent 
remedy,  and  a  very  agreeable  one  to  the  sufferer. 

It  is  extremely  difiicult  to  get  a  horse  out  of  a  stable  that  is 
on  fire.  It  is  said,  that  the  best  way  is  to  accoutre  him,  as 
speedily  as  possible,  in  the  harness  or  saddle  he  is  accustomed 
to  wearing,  and  when  he  feels  it  on  him,  he  will  think  he  ought 
to  go ;  at  the  same  time  blindfolding  him,  by  bandaging  his 
eyes,  or  throwing  a  blanket,  a  coat,  or  something  of  the  sort 
entirely  over  his  head.  Some  years  since  one  of  the  principal 
livery  stables  in  Philadelphia  took  fire,  and  all  the  horseS  (we 
believe  fifty  in  number)  were  saved  by  blindfolding  them. 
Unless  their  eyes  are  covered,  so  that  they  cannot  see 
13* 


160 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


the  fire,  they  will  run  into  it  in  the  wildness  of  their 
terror. 


BURN  SALVE. — ^Take  equal  quantities  of  Burgundy  pitch, 
yellow  bees-wax,  and  sweet  oil ;  simmer  them  together  over 
the  fire  till  quite  melted,  stirring  the  mixture  frequently.  Put 
it  into  a  salve  box,  and  do  not  use  it  till  cool.  Spread  some 
of  it  on  a  soft  linen  rag,  and  apply  it  to  the  bum,  securing  the 
rag  with  a  string  or  bandage.  By  repeating  the  application, 
it  will  be  found  an  excellent  cure  for  a  bum  or  scald;  and 
it  will  be  well  to  keep  some  of  this  salve  always  in  the 
house. 


TO  EXTRACT  A  SPARK  OF  COAL  FROM  THE 
EYE.— In  travelling  on  rail-roads,  particles  of  cinder  from  the 
chimney  of  the  locomotive  frequently  fly  into  the  eyes  of  pas- 
sengers, causing  intolerable  pain,  and,  if  not  very  soon  extracted, 
producing  inflammation.  A  trifling  spark  may  sometimes  be 
expelled  from  the  eye,  by  pulling  down  with  your  fingers  the 
lower  eyelid,  and  at  the  same  moment  blowing  your  nose  very 
hard.  If  this  does  not  succeed,  at  the  first  stopping-place 
procure  a  bristle  from  a  sweeping-brush,  and  tie  its  two  ends 
together  with  a  thread,  so  as  to  form  a  loop.  Then  let  some 
one  who  has  a  steady  hand  insert  this  loop  under  your  eyelid, 
and  pass  it  carefully  all  round  the  eye.  The  loop  will  catch 
the  particle  of  cinder  and  bring  it  out.  If  not  successful  at  the 
first  attempt,  persist  in  it,  and  it  will,  in  almost  all  cases, 
eventually  extract  the  spark. 

Another  way  (but  a  less  easy  one)  is,  after  wrapping  the  comer 
a  soft  cambric  handkerchief  round  the  head  of  a  pin,  to  let  some 
efficient  person  (a  medical  man,  if  one  is  at  hand)  insert  it  care- 
fully beneath  the  eyelid,  and  with  it  sweep  all  round  the  inside  of 


FUEL,  FIRES,  ETC. 


151 


the  eye.  This  (repeating  it,  if  necessary)  will  most  probably 
bring  out  the  bit  of  cinder. 

An  eye-stone  (to  be  obtained  at  the  druggist's)  will  also 
remove  troublesome  substances. 

If  the  eye  inflames  afterwards,  it  will  be  well  to  have  the 
lower  part  of  the  eyelid  punctured  on  the  inside  with  a  lancet, 
so  as  to  draw  blood  from  it ;  and  to  have  a  small  blister  imme- 
diately applied  behind  the  ear,  for  the  purpose  of  exciting  a 
counter-irritation.  Also  to  take  a  dose  of  cooling  medicine. 
It  is  best,  however,  to  have  recourse  as  soon  as  possible  to  a 
physician. 

To  avoid  these  painful  and  sometimes  dangerous  accidents, 
ladies  should  always  travel  with  veils ;  holding  them  closely 
down  over  their  faces,  if  they  find  the  sparks  from  the  locomo- 
tive likely  to  be  troublesome. 


FIRE-SCREENS.— Where  there  is  a  grate  or  an  open 
stove,  fire-screens  are  indispensable  to  comfort,  and  no  room 
should  be  without  one.  The  best  are  those  with  three  slides. 
They  are  tall,  upright  frames  of  mahogany  or  other  handsome 
wood,  with  heavy  feet,  moving  on  castors.  The  three  compart- 
ments are  square  or  rather  oblong  frames,  covered  with  fluted 
or  radiated  silk.  Two  of  these  compartments  are  made  to  slide 
out  from  the  sides  of  the  principal  frame,  so  as  to  add  to  the 
breadth  of  the  screen  when  necessary :  the  third  one  slides 
upward  to  give  it  additional  height.  If  the  covers  are  of  silk 
or  damask,  the  colour  should  correspond  with  those  of  the 
curtains  and  other  furniture. 

The  most  usual  parlour  screens  are  upright  frames  of  ma- 
hogany, standing  (as  all  fire  screens  should)  on  heavy  substan- 
tial feet,  to  prevent  accidents  from  oversetting.  The  screen 
part,  which  extends  about  halfway  down,  is  a  square  frame 


153 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


covered  with  silk,  fluted  or  radiated ;  and  along  its  base  is  a 
shelf  broad  enough  to  hold  a  book  or  a  few  sewing  imple- 
ments. 

Instead  of  silk,  fire-screens  for  libraries  and  chambers  may 
be  covered  with  varnished  maps,  pictures,  comic  drawings  or 
prints,  riddles,  conundrums,  &c. 

A  plain,  cheap  fire-screen  for  a  bed-room,  nursery,  or  kitchen, 
may  be  made  of  common  wood,  (any  carpenter  will  do  it,)  and 
you  can  furnish  it  yourself  with  a  cover  of  green  moreen,  or 
any  other  stuff  that  is  dark  and  durable.  It  must  be  a  tall 
upright  frame,  about  a  yard  and  a  half  high  and  a  yard  in  width, 
made  exactly  like  a  large  towel-horse,  with  ends  or  knobs 
rising  above  the  top  bar.  There  should  be  another  cross  bar 
about  halfway  down,  to  strengthen  the  frame.  The  cover 
should  be  a  double  piece  of  stuff,  made  to  slip  over  the  frame, 
and  of  sufficient  length  to  descend  to  the  floor,  sewed  at  the 
sides  about  halfway  down ;  the  remainder  hemmed  and  left 
open,  so  as  to  form  two  large  flaps,  which  can  be  fastened  up 
at  pleasure  with  strings  of  ribbon  or  worsted  ferret,  or  with 
loops  and  buttons,  when  you  wish  the  warmth  of  the  fire  to 
reach  your  limbs.  Again ;  if,  in  sitting  very  near  the  grate, 
you  desire  to  guard  your  dress  from  the  danger  of  being  dis- 
coloured by  the  heat,  you  can  let  down  the  two  flaps,  and  have 
your  whole  person  protected  by  it.  When  not  wanted  as  a 
fire-screen,  you  may  remove  the  cover,  and  use  the  frame  as  a 
clothes-horse  for  drying  muslins  and  other  small  articles. 

It  is  always  best  to  stand  the  fire-screen  in  a  sideway  posi- 
tion. It  can  be  so  placed  as  to  shelter  you  effectually  from  the 
heat,  without  being  itself  exposed  to  the  injury  it  may  sustain 
from  standing  with  its  full  front  in  face  of  the  fire. 

Hand-screens  should  not  be  forgotten  in  furnishing  a  room. 
They  should  be  large  enough  to  shade  the  face  completely,  and 


FUEL,    FIRES,  ETC. 


may  be  made  very  handsome  by  a  young  lady  of  good  taste  and 
well  skilled  in  drawing.  The  usual  foundation  for  such  hand- 
screens  is  very  thick  pasteboard  or  very  thin  wood.  The 
covers  are  of  fine  paper,  ornamented  with  drawings,  and  pasted 
on  very  smoothly,  the  edge  being  finished  with  a  border  or 
binding  of  gold  paper.  We  have  seen  beautiful  fire-screens, 
having  in  the  centre  an  excellent  oval  drawing  in  Indian  ink, 
encircled  with  a  wreath  of  flowers  done  in  colours,  which 
looked  the  brighter  from  being  contrasted  with  the  darkness  of 
the  centre-piece.  There  are  very  amusing  hand-scrreens, 
covered  with  a  variety  of  comic  drawings,  or  with  conundrums, 
&c.,  handsomely  and  legibly  written.  All  paper  screens 
should  be  coated  with  transparent  varnish,  otherwise  they  will 
soon  become  soiled  and  discoloured. 

Large  feather  fans  are  good  substitutes  for  hand-screens. 


CHAIR-SCREENS. — To  make  a  very  good  chair-screen, 
get  a  large  sheet  of  the  thick  stiff  pasteboard  used  by  bookbind- 
ers and  trunk-makers,  (of  whom  it  can  be  obtained,)  and  with 
a  knife  pare  off  the  edges  and  trim  it  to  the  required  size.  It 
should  ascend  sufficiently  above  the  back  of  the  chair  to  screen 
the  neck  and  shoulders  of  the  sitter.  Make  a  double  case  (like 
a  pillow-case)  of  dark  chintz  or  moreen,  open  at  one  end,  to 
slip  over  the  pasteboard.  At  each  of  the  lower  corners,  sew  a 
strong  string  of  stout  ribbon  or  worsted  tape,  and  place  two 
other  strings  about  half  a  yard  farther  up,  on  the  side  edges  or 
seams  of  the  cover.  When  the  cover  is  finished,  slip  it  over 
the  pasteboard,  and  sew  it  along  the  bottom  edge,  to  keep  the 
board  from  falling  out.  When  ready  for  use  tie  it  by  the 
strings  to  the  outside  of  the  back  of  the  chair.  Three  or 
four  of  these  screens  will  be  found  very  convenient  in  dining- 
rooms,  to  screen  from  the  heat  the  backs  of  those  persons  who 


154 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


sit  on  the  side  of  the  table  next  the  fire.  Also,  they  will  save 
the  chairs  from  being  scorched  and  blistered. 

You  may  have  slighter  chair-screens,  by  simply  making 
cases  of  thick  moreen,  without  pasteboard ;  leaving  th^  lower 
end  open  to  slip  down  over  the  chair-back. 


155 


LIGHTS,  &c 


LAMP  OIL. — The  best  lamp  oil  is  that  which  is  clear  and 
nearly  colourless,  like  water.  None  but  the  winter-strained 
oil  should  be  used  in  cold  weather.  Thick,  dark-coloured  oil 
bums  badly,  (particularly  if  it  is  old,)  and  there  is  no  economy 
in  trying  to  use  it.  Unless  you  require  a  great  deal  every 
night,  it  is  well  not  to  get  more  than  two  or  three  gallons  at  a 
time,  as  it  spoils  by  keeping.  Oil  that  has  been  kept  several 
months  will  frequently  not  burn  at  all.  When  that  is  found  to 
be  the  case,  it  is  best  to  empty  it  all  out,  clean  thoroughly  the 
can  or  jug  that  has  contained  it,  and  re-fill  it  with  good 
fresh  oil. 

There  are  large  oil-vessels  with  cocks,  and  keys  belonging 
to  them. 


CLEANING  AN  OIL-CAN.— Having  thoroughly  emptied 
it  of  the  dregs  of  the  oil,  fasten  a  rag  to  the  end  of  a  stick,  and 
with  it  scrub  or  wipe  round  the  inside  and  bottom,  till  you 
have  got  out  all  the  sediment.  Next,  wash  out  the  can,  by 
pouring  in  a  lather  of  brown  soap  and  warm  water,  rubbed 
about  with  a  clean  rag  on  the  stick ;  and  having  rinsed  it  well 
with  cold  water,  turn  it  up  to  drain. 

Clean  the  outside  of  the  tin  with  whiting  wet  with  water, 
and  rubbed  bright  with  a  rag.  Then  fiiU  it  with  clear  fresh  oil. 


ANOTHER  WAY — After  emptying  the  oil-can,  and  remov- 
ing the  sediment  from  the  bottom,  as  above,  by  means  of  a  rag 


156 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


fastened  to  a  stick,  fill  the  can  with  warm  water,  in  which  a 
large  table-spoonful  of  pearl-ash  has  been  melted.  Put  on  the 
cover,  and  let  it  stand  all  night.  Then  rinse  it  out  with  two 
or  three  warm  waters,  and  put  it  to  drain.    Then  fill  it  anew. 

If  the  inside  of  an  oil-can  is  allowed  to  collect  sediment 
without  frequent  cleaning  out,  it  will  spoil  the  fresh  oil  that  is 
put  in,  and  cause  it  to  bum  badly. 

Always  keep  the  oil-Can  on  an  old  waiter,  or  something  of 
the  sort,  to  receive  whatever  grease  may  come  from  it 

ASTRAL  LAMPS — In  buying  astral  lamps  for  the  table, 
choose  the  shades  of  plain  ground  glass,  as  they  give  the  clear- 
est and  steadiest  light,  and  are  best  for  the  eyes,  particularly 
when  employed  in  reading,  writing,  or  needlework.  Lamp 
shades  painted  in  bright  colours  are  now  considered  in  very 
bad  taste,  and  are  nearly  exploded  in  genteel  houses.  The 
fashion  of  having  the  shades  decorated  with  flowers  or  other 
devices,  cut  on  the  glass  and  left  transparent,  is  also  on  the 
decline:  and  most  fortunately,  as  it  is  a  very  bad  one  for  lamps 
that  are  intended  for  useful  rather  than  ornamental  purposes ; 
though  it  may  do  well  enough  for  mantel-lamps  and  lustres. 
The  transparent  flowering  breaks  and  distracts  the  light,  and 
its  scattered  brightness  glitters  in  the  eyes,  and  is  eventually 
very  pernicious  to  them,  though  it  may  not  seem  so  at  first ; 
also  the  irregularity  with  which  it  falls  renders  the  light  much 
less  easy  for  reading  or  sewing  than  the  soft,  steady,  uniform 
rays  from  a  shade  of  plain  ground  glass.  For  lighting  up  pic- 
tures, flowered  shades  should  on  no  account  be  used,  as  they 
will  destroy  the  effect  of  the  painting. 

To  buy  table  astral  lamps  of  inferior  size,  is  by  no  means 
advisable.  They  only  give  light  in  proportion  to  their  magni- 
tude ;  and  when  they  are  small  and  low,  the  effort  of  seeing  by 


LIGHTS,  ETC. 


15t 


lihem  is  so  teazing  to  the  optic  nerve,  that  the  eyes,  however 
strong  originally,  seldom  fail  to  become  weak  in  consequence. 
It  is  also  false  economy,  to  diminish  the  light,  by  keeping  the 
lamp  low,  for  the  purpose  of  saving  a  little  oil ;  as  many  have 
discovered,  when  too  late;  after  their  eyes  were  irreparably 
injured  by  this  foolish  practice. 


MANAGEMENT  OF  ASTRAL  LAMPS— Use  none  but 
the  best  oil,  as  that  of  inferior  price  and  quality  will  be  found 
more  inconvenient  than  economical.  Except  in  warm  weather, 
the  winter  strained  oil  is  the  only  sort  that  is  fit  for  lamps,  as 
it  is  not  liable  to  chill ;  and  when  chilled,  no  oil  will  burn.  It 
should  look  clear  and  limpid  like  water.  Do  not  buy  too  much 
oil  at  once,  as  it  frequently  spoils  by  keeping,  so  as  to  become 
useless.  For  filling  the  lamps,  have  a  covered  tin  pot  or  can 
with  a  long  spout  turned  upwards  at  the  point,  lest  it  should 
drip  after  pouring.  Keep  a  distinct  oil-can  for  the  parlour  lamp. 
Choose  firm  light-woven  wicks,  fine  in  texture,  and  with  even 
edges.  Coarse,  flimsy,  loosely-woven  wicks,  absorb  more  oil 
than  the  flame  will  consume ;  and  consequently,  the  cup  or 
reservoir  being  too  full  of  oil,  the  air-holes  are  choked,  and  the 
flaptie  blazes  out  at  the  top  of  the  glass  chimney,  so  as  to  en- 
danger its  cracking.  Keep  the  wicks  in  a  place  where  they 
will  be  clean  and  dry ;  and  always  have  in  the  house  some  extra 
lamp-glasses  or  chimneys,  to  be  ready  in  case  of  accidents. 
They  also  should  be  perfectly  dry. 

No  one  should  trim  lamps  with  damp  fingers. 

It  is  well  to  have  a  small  basket  for  the  purpose  of  contain- 
ing whatever  is  necessary  for  trimming  the  lamp.  Across  the 
top  of  the  basket,  (which  should  have  side  handles,)  let  there 
be  fastened  two  tight  strings  of  thick  twine,  to  support  the 
shade  ©r  globe  of  the  lamp  when  you  take  it  off.  The  larap- 
14 


158 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


scissors  should  be  very  sharp,  or  it  will  be  impossible  to  trim 
the  wick  properly. 

A  lamp  that  is  nightly  in  use  should  be  trimmed  and 
replenished  regularly  every  morning,  otherwise  there  will  be 
no  certainty  in  its  burning,  and  it  will  go  out  unexpectedly  at 
any  time  in  the  evening,  leaving  the  room  in  darkness.  After 
you  have  removed  the  shade  and  the  glass  chimney,  raise  the 
wick  by  turning  the  screw  towards  the  right  hand,  and  cut  olF 
■with  the  lamp-scissors,  or  nip  off  with  your  thumb  and  finger 
the  edge  of  the  wick  that  has  been  burning  the  night  before ; 
but  do  not  trim  it  too  closely,  or  you  will  find  it  difficult  to 
light  again.  It  is  sufficient,  barely  to  cut  off  the  rim  of  the 
brown  crust.  When  you  find  that  the  wick  is  reduced  by 
burning,  to  only  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  length,  it  is  time 
to  take  it  out  and  put  in  a  new  one.  In  winter,  a  new  wick 
will  be  required  once  a  week ;  in  the  short  summer  evenings, 
it  will  of  course  last  longer.  Always  do  the  wick  before  the 
oil.  Clean  out  every  morning,  the  cup  or  candlestick  part  that 
catches  the  droppings.  Wipe  out  with  a  clean  soft  cloth,  (for 
instance,  an  old  napkin,  or  old  silk  handkerchief,)  the  glass 
chimney,  and  the  shade ;  and  dust  well  their  outsides,  and  also 
every  part  of  the  lamp.  Then  replace  it  on  the  table  to  be 
ready  for  evening. 

When  you  light  it,  remove  the  shade  and  the  chimney,  and 
ignite  the  wick  with  a  paper  match,  a  supply  of  which  should 
always  be  kept  in  some  convenient  place.  They  should  be 
made  of  waste  writing  paper  cut  into  long  slips,  and  folded, 
and  creased  very  hard.  If  of  newspaper  or  any  other  that  is 
not  stiff  enough,  the  flame  will  run  along  them  so  fast  as  to 
endanger  your  fingers.  As  soon  as  the  wick  is  ignited  all  round, 
put  on  the  chimney  and  the  shade,  turn  the  screw  to  the  right, 
and  raise  the  light  at  once  to  the  height  at  which  it  is  to 


LIGHTS,  ETC. 


continue  through  the  evening.  The  practice  of  keeping  the 
wick  low  for  a  considerable  time  after  it  is  lighted,  is  a  bad 
one,  as  by  doing  so  a  crust  forms  round  it  which  dims  the  light 
for  the  whole  evening.  Take  care,  however,  not  to  raise  the 
light  so  high  as  for  the  flame  to  blaze  out  at  the  top  of  the  chim- 
ney, as  that  will  certainly  crack  the  glass,  unless  it  is  let  down 
immediately  by  turning  the  screw  to  the  left.  When  you 
wish  to  extinguish  the  lamp  entirely,  turn  the  screw  to  the  left 
as  far  as  it  will  go. 

When  you  are  about  lighting  an  astral  lamp,  see  that  your 
fingers  have  no  wet  or  damp  on  them. 

Once  a  week  the  chimney  and  shade  of  the  lamp  should  be 
washed  out  well  with  luke-warm  soap-suds,  then  rinsed  in 
clean  water,  and  wiped  and  dried  thoroughly. 

The  lamp  should  be  taken  to  pieces,  and  undergo  a  complete 
cleaning  once  a  month.  To  clean  it:  after  it  is  all  taken  apart, 
empty  the  reservoir  over  the  kitchen  sink,  throwing  out  what- 
ever oil  is  in  it.  Have  ready,  in  a  pitcher,  a  pint  of  warm 
water,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  a  large  table-spoonful  of 
pearl-ash.  Pour  this  into  the  reservoir,  and  let  it  stand  about 
three  hours,  shaking  it  round  frequently.  Then  pour  it  out, 
and  rinse  the  reservoir  several  times  with  clean  warm  water ; 
for  if  any  of  the  pearl-ash  remains,  it  will  form  with  the  oil  a 
sort  of  soap,  and  prevent  its  burning.  Drain  the  reservoir  tho- 
roughly, by  turning  it  upside  down,  and  letting  it  stand  a  while 
on  a  plate.  Take  care  that  the  pearl-ash  touches  no  part  of 
the  outside  of  the  lamp. 

If  the  frame  and  stand  of  the  lamp  is  plated,  clean  it  but  sel- 
dom, and  then  use  powdered  whiting  of  the  finest  kind  or  pre- 
pared chalk,  made  into  a  paste  with  whiskey,  and  rubbed  on 
with  a  soft  flannel.  Then  finish  with  a  buckskin,  and  brush 
out  the  roug^  or  embossed  parts  with  a  clean  tooth-brush. 


16Q 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


If  the  stand  or  frame  of  the  lamp  is  of  bronze,  clean  it  by 
merely  rubbing  it  well  with  a  soft  dry  cloth.  The  same  if  it 
is  gilt. 

When  every  part  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned,  replenish  it 
with  fresh  oil  and  fresh  wick,  and  put  the  lamp  together. 

When  all  your  lamps  (mantel,  &c.)  have  been  in  use  for 
company,  they  should  next  morning  be  emptied  completely  of 
oil  and  wick,  and  washed  out  with  luke-warm  pearl-ash  and 
water.  If  the  oil  and  wick  are  left  in  them,  verdigrease  will 
accumulate,  which,  when  they  are  lighted  again,  will  cause 
them  to  smoke  instead  of  bum.  The  oil  that  is  taken  from 
these  lamps  should  be  put  into  a  can  and  saved  to  use  for  the 
kitchen.  On  the  day  of  your  next  company,  (and  not  till  then,) 
replenish  them  anew.  Unless  a  lamp  is  used  nightly,  no  oil 
and  wick  should  be  left  in  it,  even  for  a  single  day. 

ENTRY  LAMPS — Entry  lamps  should  be  trimmed  every 
morning,  and  lighted  as  soon  as  the  sun  has  set;  as  at  that  time 
the  hall  or  entry  is  always  so  dark,  that  no  one  can  find  their 
way  through  it  without  difficulty.  Where  the  drawing-room 
is  up  stairs,  there  should  be  a  second  lamp,  to  light  the  stair- 
case and  the  upper  passage. 

After  the  large  entry  lamp  is  extinguished,  on  the  family 
going  to  bed,  a  small  brass  lamp  should  be  kept  burning  all 
night,  on  a  table  in  the  passage,  or  landing-place  of  the  lower 
stairs,  that  a  light  may  always  be  at  hand,  in  case  of  any  per- 
son being  taken  suddenly  ill. 

In  houses  that  stand  somewhat  back  from  the  street,  with  a 
little  garden  in  front,  it  is  well  (particularly  when  visiters  are 
expected)  to  place  a  lamp  on  a  shelf  fixed  for  the  purpose,  in 
the  fan-light  over  the  front  door.  This  will  light  the  guests 
on  their  way  from  the  gate  to  the  door-step,  and  is  a  great  con- 


LIGHTS,  ETC. 


venience  on  a  dark  or  wet  night.  Most  of  the  best  houses  have 
permanent  lamps  at  the  foot  of  the  door-steps. 

Hall  lamps  of  stained  glass  are  very  elegant,  their  colours 
throwing  a  beautiful  tint  on  the  walls  and  floor. 

LAMP-RUGS. — These  are  small  square  rugs,  to  prevent 
the  feet  of  the  lamps  from  marking  the  table.  The  cheapest 
are  niade  of  oil-cloth,  lined  underneath  with  green  baize,  and 
bordered  with  a  very  thick  worsted  fringe,  which  may  be 
bought,  by  the  yard,  at  the  trimming  stores.  The  handsomest 
lamp-rugs  are  worked  on  canvas  with  crewels  of  different 
colours ;  the  centre  done  in  cross-stitch  or  queen-stitch,  and  the 
edge  decorated  with  a  standing  border,  or  wreath  of  flowers 
ingeniously  made  of  crewel.  Some  have  a  high  close  border 
all  round,  imitating  velvet  or  plush.  This  is  made  by  working 
the  crewel  over  a  mesh,  or  straight  slip  of  wood,  (like  a  ruler,) 
about  an  inch  and  a  half  broad,  so  as  to  form  successive  rows 
of  long  loops,  with  an  interval  of  two  or  three  threads  of  canvas 
between  each  row.  When  all  is  done,  the  loops  are  cut  by 
running  scissors  through  them ;  and  then  the  surface  is  evenly 
sheared,  so  as  to  resemble  very  thick  velvet.  The  needles  used 
for  this  work  should  be  large  and  blunt-pointed,  like  bodkins, 
and  the  crewel  should  be  put  into  them  three  or  four  double,  in 
very  long  needlefuls.  Hearth-rugs  worked  all  over  in  this 
velvet  stitch,  on  very  coarse  canvas,  are  extremely  rich  and 
beautiful,  and  of  the  greatest  durability. 

In  doing  worsted  work,  you  will  find  very  convenient  a 
receptacle  for  the  needles,  as  you  must  have  a  separate  needle 
for  every  shade  of  the  crewel.  A  very  simple  contrivance  for 
this  purpose,  is  to  take  a  gallicup,  or  something  else  that  has 
a  ridge  round  the  top,  and  tie  over  it  a  bit  of  canvas.  Keep 
this  beside  you  to  stick  your  needles  in  while  at  w«rk. 
14* 


162 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


CHAMBER  LAMPS.— Small  japanned  lamps  are  the  most 
convenient  for  carrying  up  and  down  stairs,  and  for  lighting  to 
bed.  They  should  be  regularly  replenished  every  morning,  by 
unscrewing  the  top  and  filling  them  up  with  oil,  first  adding  a 
new  wick,  if  necessary.  The  wick  should  be  about  a  quarter 
of  a  yard  in  length ;  and  unless  the  lamp  is  kept  burning  all 
the  evening,  it  will  not  require  renewing  for  three  or  four  days. 
The  wick  is  put  in  by  drawing  it  through  the  socket,  and 
should  be  pulled  up  at  the  top  with  a  pin  to  a  convenient 
height  for  lighting.    The  grocers  sell  it  in  balls. 

Every  evening  before  dusk,  as  many  of  these  bed-lamps  as 
may  be  wanted  by  the  members  of  the  family,  should  be  ranged 
on  a  japanned  waiter,  with  a  brass  lamp  of  larger  size  burning 
in  the  middle,  and  a  few  paper  matches  placed  on  one  side. 
The  waiter  of  lamps  should  be  kept  on  a  small  table  (or  on 
shelves  connected  by  a  frame)  at  the  first  landing-place  of  the 
stairs,  or  in  a  recess  or  retired  part  of  the  hall  or  entry  below. 
By  this  convenient  arrangement,  every  person  that  wants  a 
lamp  can  supply  himself  at  once,  without  waiting  to  ring 
for  a  servant  to  bring  one,  and  can  light  it  conveniently  without 
coming  into  the  parlour  for  the  purpose.  Lighting  a  small  one 
at  an  astral  lamp  requires  more  dexterity  and  more  nerve  than 
falls  to  the  lot  of  many  persons ;  as,  when  the  match  is  inserted 
into  the  glass  chimney,  the  flame  runs  up  instantly  to  the  hand, 
and  there  is  danger  of  dropping  it  on  the  carpet,  before  it  can 
be  carried  to  the  hearth.  All  this  difiiculty  is  obviated  by 
keeping  a  lamp'table  in  a  place  convenient  to  the  parlour,  with 
a  lamp  always  burning,  by  which  to  light  the  small  ones  when- 
ever they  are  wanted. 

The  long  or  ball  wick  used  for  common  lamps  may  be  much 
improved  by  cutting  it  into  pieces  several  yards  long,  steeping 
them  in  a  cup  of  vinegar,  then  spreading  them  out  to  dry,  and 


LIGHTS,   ETC.  189 

when  quite  dry  winding  them  on  a  card.  The  steeping  in 
vinegar  will  cause  the  wick  to  give  a  clearer  and  better  light, 
and  when  blown  out  it  is  extinguished  immediately,  leaving 
no  smoke  or  disagreeable  smell. 


KITCHEN  LAMPS— Should  be  of  brass  or  block  tin, 
with  broad  bottoms  like  chamber  candlesticks.  They  also 
should  be  kept  clean  and  replenished  every  day. 


LANTERNS. — Every  house  should  be  provided  with  one 
or  more  lanterns  to  carry  out  of  doors  at  night,  or  to  take  into 
a  stable,  barn,  or  any  other  place  where  an  uncovered  candle 
or  lamp  might  be  dangerous. 

Lanterns  with  glass  sides  are  so  easily  cracked  that  we  do 
not  recommend  them.  They  are  much  better  when  glazed 
with  horn,  or  perforated  all  over  with  small  holes.  If  they 
have  lamps  in  them,  care  should  be  taken  to  trim  and  replenish 
these  lamps  daily,  that  the  lantern  may  always  be  ready  if 
wanted  at  night.  It  is  best  to  get  a  lantern  with  a  socket  at 
the  bottom,  so  that  either  a  lamp  or  a  piece  of  candle  can  be 
placed  in  it,  as  may  be  most  convenient.  The  piece  of  candle 
must  not  be  very  long,  or  it  will  heat  the  top  of  the  lantern  so 
as  to  burn  the  fingers  of  the  person  that  carries  it. 

The  small  lamps  used  for  placing  in  the  sockets  of  lanterns 
are  like  those  without  bottoms  or  stands,  that  are  made  to  place 
in  broad  kitchen  candlesticks. 


FLOATING  TAPERS.— To  burn  all  night  in  a  chamber, 
no  lights  are  so  cheap  and  so  convenient  as  floating  tapers. 
In  travelling,  it  may  be  found  of  great  advantage  to  put  in 
your  trunk  a  small  box  of  them,  containing  also  the  float,  or 


164 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


little  apparatus  of  tin  and  cork,  that  supports  them  in  the  oil. 
When  you  stop  for  the  night,  ask  for  an  old  tea-cup  or  some- 
thing of  the  sort  filled  with  lamp-oil,  on  the  top  of  which  place 
the  float  with  a  taper  on  it.  Set  the  light  in  the  chimney,  and 
if  you  are  incommoded  by  its  beams,  faint  as  they  are,  it  is 
easy  to  accustom  yourself  to  sleep  with  a  silk  handkerchief  or 
a  broad  ribbon  tied  over  your  eyes.  In  the  morning  remember 
to  take  the  float  out  of  the  cup,  wipe  it,  and  return  it  to  the 
taper-box,  that  you  may  have  it  ready  for  the  next  night.  The 
little  tin  pliers  or  tweezers,  that  come  in  the  box,  are  used  for 
taking  the  tapers  off  the  float. 

The  best  floating  tapers  (as  we  have  found)  are  those  with 
wooden  bottoms,  and  of  the  smallest  size.  They  come  in 
boxes  with  a  London  mark.  The  box  contains  a  little  pair  of 
pliers,  a  float,  and  tapers  enough  to  burn  every  night  for  several 
months :  the  cost  is  generally  but  twenty-five  cents,  and  no 
light  consumes  so  small  a  quantity  of  oil. 

As  it  is  not  well  to  waste  any  thing,  however  cheap,  we 
recommend,  in  families  who  find  it  necessary  to  economize 
in  trifling  expenses,  that  the  wooden  bottoms  of  the  floating 
tapers  shall  not  be  thrown  away  in  the  morning  after  the  light 
is  extinguished.  Let  them  be  saved  in  an  old  box  kept  at  hand 
for  the  purpose,  and  when  a  box  full  is  thus  collected,  they 
can  be  used  over  again  by  furnishing  them  with  fresh  wicks, 
made  as  follows  : 

To  renew  Jloating  tapers. — Having  saved  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  old  bottoms  belonging  to  tapers  that  have  been  used, 
wipe  them  clean  one  by  one,  and  spread  them  out  on  a  sheet 
of  coarse  paper.  Melt  some  white  wax,  and  take  some  of  the 
very  finest  or  smallest  white  cotton  cord,  such  as  is  scarcely 
thicker  than  a  coarse  thread.  Having  melted  the  wax,  dip  the 
cord  into  it  while  hot,  so  as  to  cover  it  completely  with  a  coat- 


LIGHTS,  ETC. 


ing  of  the  liquid.  Then  dry  it  in  the  open  air,  and  when  quite 
dry  and  stiff,  cut  it  into  pieces  of  equal  size  about  an  inch  in 
length,  and  put  them  through  the  holes  of  the  old  taper-bot- 
toms, leaving  a  little  bit  beneath  or  on  the  under  side  to  be 
turned  up,  and  pressed  hard  against  the  wood  with  your  finger, 
so  as  to  stick  fast  and  secure  the  wick  from  slipping  out. 
Put  the  tapers  into  a  box,  and  keep  them  for  use. 

NIGHT  LAMPS. — There  are  a  variety  of  lamps  for  burn- 
ing all  night  in  chambers ;  an  excellent  custom,  which  fre- 
quently prevents  much  inconvenience,  particularly  in  cases  of 
sudden  illness.  In  every  house  it  is  well  to  have  a  lamp 
burning  the  whole  i)ight,  in  at  least  one  of  the  rooms.  Many 
persons  are  unwilling  to  sleep  in  a  lighted  room,  thinking  that 
the  sight  of  the  objects  all  around  will  disturb  them,  and  that 
none  of  the  shaded  lamps  sufficiently  obscure  the  light.  To 
obviate  this  objection,  we  know  of  no  better  contrivance  than 
a  floating  taper  placed  in  a  cup  of  oil,  and  shut  up  in  a  small 
dark  lantern ;  such  as  may  be  purchased  at  a  tin-store  for  fifty 
or  seventy-five  cents.  If  there  is  a  socket  in  the  bottom  of  the 
lantern,  it  had  best  be  taken  out,  that  the  oil-cup  may  set 
steadily  on  the  floor.  A  little  six-cent  tin  cup  is  the  best  thing 
to  hold  the  oil ;  with  which  having  filled  it,  place  on  the  sur- 
face one  of  the  cork-floats  that  come  in  the  taper-boxes,  and 
every  night  set  a  taper  on  the  float. 

After  the  taper  is  settled  in  the  centre  of  the  cork  float,  ignite 
it  by  holding  a  lighted  paper-match  to  its  side ;  place  the  cup 
of  oil  on  the  floor  of  the  dark  lantern,  (which  should  set  on  the 
hearth,)  and  shut  up  the  door.  There  will  be  a  sufficient  glim- 
mering through  the  air  holes  at  the  top,  just  to  show  where  it 
is,  and  if  at  any  time  in  the  night  you  should  want  a  larger 
portion  of  light,  you  can  open  the  door  of  the  lantern  or  slide 


1^6  '  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


up  one  of  the  tin  shutters  at  the  side.  If  you  have  occasion 
to  light  a  candle  or  lamp  from  the  floating  taper,  take  the  oil- 
cup  out  of  the  lantern  and  set  it  on  a  small  plate  or  saucer  kept 
on  the  hearth  for  the  purpose,  and  apply  a  paper  match  to  it. 
A  supply  of  paper  matches  should  be  kept  in  every  room. 

In  the  morning  blow  out  the  taper,  and  let  the  oil-cup  be  put 
away  on  the  plate,  for  if  lifted  in  the  lantern  it  may  spill. 

If  there  is  no  chimney  in  the  room,  and  the  weather  will  not 
permit  a  window-sash  to  be  raised,  the  vapour  of  any  night 
light  will  be  unwholesome  to  sleepers — therefore  set  it  outside 
of  the  room-door  on  an  old  waiter. 

You  may  remove  oil-grease  from  a  hearth,  by  covering  it 
immediately  with  thick  hot  ashes  or  with  burning  coals.  "When 
thus  swept  off,  if  the  oil  is  not  quite  gone,  spread  some  more 
hot  ashes,  or  a  little  Wilmington  clay. 


VERY  CHEAP  FLOATING  TAPERS.— From  a  ball  of 
common  lamp-wick  unwind  a  yard  or  two,  of  which  you  must 
take  three  threads.  Have  ready  a  piece  of  wax  about  the  size 
of  a  large  walnut,  either  common  bees-wax,  or  the  ends  of 
wax  candles  heated  a  little  and  squeezed  together  into  a  solid 
lump.  Take  a  tin  cup  or  a  small  sauce-pan  filled  with  water 
that  is  boiling  hot.  Throw  into  it  the  lump  of  wax,  and  when 
it  is  melted  and  floats  on  the  top  of  the  water,  dip  in  the  wick, 
curling  it  about  in  the  melted  wax.  When  the  wick  is  suffi- 
ciently coated,  withdraw  it,  and  hold  it  up  to  drain  and  con- 
geal ;  then  lay  it  on  a  plate.  When  quite  cold,  cut  it,  with 
scissors,  into  bits  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in  length, 
(not  larger,  or  they  may  smoke,)  and  put  them  away  in  a  box. 

For  using  these  wicks  you  must  have  one  of  those  large 
circular  cork  floats,  that  are  covered  all  over  the  surface  with 
tin  to  keep  the  cork  from  burning.   They  come  in  some  of  the 


LIGHTS,  ETC. 


16^ 


imported  boxes  of  floating  tapers.  Put  the  wick  through  the 
small  hole  in  the  centre  of  the  float,  pressing  or  plastering  the 
lower  end  against  the  under  side  of  the  cork,  to  prevent  its 
slipping  out  through  the  bottom.  Set  this  taper  in  a  cup  of  the 
best  oil,  and  it  will  burn  well  all  night.  Next  night  put  a 
fresh  wick  into  the  float. 
This  will  be  found  the  most  economical  of  night  lamps. 

CANDLES. —  Candles  improve  by  keeping  for  a  few 
months ;  those  made  in  winter  are  the  best.  The  most  econo- 
mical as  well  as  the  most  convenient  plan,  is  to  purchase  them 
by  the  box,  keeping  them  always  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

If  wax  candles  become  discoloured  or  soiled,  they  may  be 
restored,  by  rubbing  them  over  with  a  clean  flannel,  slightly 
dipped  in  spirits  of  wine. 

Candles  are  sometimes  troublesome  to  light.  They  will 
ignite  instantly,  if,  when  preparing  them  for  the  evening,  you  dip 
the  top  in  spirits  of  wine,  shortly  before  they  are  wanted. 

Light  them  always  with  a  match,  and  do  not  hold  them  to 
the  fire,  as  that  will  cause  the  tops  to  melt  and  drip.  Always 
hold  the  match  to  the  side  of  the  wick,  and  not  over  the  top. 

If  you  find  them  too  small  for  the  candlesticks,  wrap  neatly 
round  the  bottom  end  a  small  piece  of  white  paper,  not  allowing 
the  paper  to  appear  above  the  socket.  Cut  the  wicks  at  once  to 
a  convenient  length  for  lighting,  (nearly  close,)  for  if  the  wick  is 
too  long  at  the  top,  it  will  be  very  difficult  to  ignite,  and  will 
also  bend  down,  and  set  the  candle  to  running. 

Glass  receivers  for  the  droppings  of  candles  are  very  con- 
venient, as  well  as  ornamental.  These  are  to  be  had  at  the 
principal  china  stores,  and  those  that  are  of  cut-glass  are  ex- 
tremely elegant.  They  have  a  hole,  through  which  the  candle 
is  passed  when  they  are  placed  on  the  socket  of  the  candlestick 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


or  branch  ;  and  projecting  all  round  in  the  form  of  leaves  or 
shells,  they  receive  the  droppings  of  the  wax  or  spermaceti. 

The  pieces  of  candle  that  are  left  after  burning  an  evening, 
should  be  laid  in  a  tin  box  kept  for  the  purpose,  and  used  for 
bed-lights.  Even  if  the  pieces  are  tolerably  long,  they  should 
not  again  be  introduced  as  parlour  lights,  for  in  genteel  families 
it  is  not  customary  to  commence  their  evening  with  half-burnt 
candles. 


TO  MAKE  COMMON  MOULD  CANDLES.— For  this 
purpose,  you  will  require  a  set  of  tin  moulds,  containing  tubes 
for  four  or  six  candles ;  a  strong  straight  stick  about  half  a  yard 
long,  to  go  across  the  top ;  and  six  or  eight  wooden  pegs.  You 
must  have  also,  a  ball  of  clean  cotton  candle-wick ;  and  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  fresh  raw  mutton  suet.  Lamb  fat  must  not  be 
mixed  with  it,  as  it  will  cause  the  candles  to  run. 

To  prepare  the  wicks,  cut  the  cotton  into  double  lengths, 
somewhat  longer  than  the  tin  moulds.  With  a  bodkin  or  some- 
thing of  the  sort,  draw  the  wicks  (double)  through  the  moulds, 
leaving  a  loop  at  the  top  of  each,  and  a  piece  coming  out  at  the 
bottom.  Run  the  stick  through  these  loops  at  the  top ;  and 
secure  the  wicks  where  they  come  out  at  the  bottom  of  the 
moulds,  by  wrapping  them  tightly  round  the  wooden  pegs,  so 
as  to  prevent  the  tallow  from  running  out  when  it  is  poured  in. 

Cut  up  the  suet;  put  it  into  a  pot  over  the  fire,  and  melt  it 
thoroughly,  skimming  it  well.  Then  strain  it  through  a  coarse 
cloth,  into  a  mug  with  a  spout,  and  pour  it  hot  into  the  moulds, 
filling  them  completely.  Set  them  out  of  doors  for  the  candles 
to  cool ;  or,  what  is  still  better,  stand  the  moulds  in  a  ves- 
sel of  cold  water ;  or  put  a  little  ice  or  snow  round  them  if 
you  are  in  haste  to  get  them  cold.  Freezing  will  make  them 
white.    When  you  are  certain  that  the  tallow  is  quite  cold  and 


LIGHTS,  ETC. 


hard,  dip  the  moulds  for  a  moment  into  warm  water,  to  loosen 
the  candles ;  and  then,  pulling  them  upwards  by  the  cross  stick 
at  the  top,  draw  them  carefully  out.  If  you  draw  them  too 
soon,  the  wicks  will  come  out  and  leave  the  tallow.  Trim  off 
the  ends  of  the  wicks  at  the  bottom  and  top,  and  the  candles 
will  be  fit  for  use  next  evening. 

From  a  quarter  of  fine  mutton,  (including  the  leg  and  loin,) 
you  may  cut  off  sufficient  fat  or  suet,  to  make  four  large  mould 
candles.  After  they  are  made,  (if  the  season  is  winter,)  put 
them  out  of  doors  a  night  or  two,  that  they  may  freeze  white. 


SMALL  WAX  CANDLES  — Or  bougies,  for  sealing 
letters,  may  be  made  in  a  manner  similar  to  the  above.  You 
must  procure  from  a  tinner  a  set  of  very  small  moulds.  The 
wicks  should  be  of  fine  smooth  cotton,  and  thinner  than  for  large 
candles.  The  wax  (either  white  or  coloured)  you  can  obtain 
from  the  druggists.  Melt  it  thoroughly.  As  it  is  already  refined, 
it  requires  no  straining  previous  to  pouring  it  into  the  moulds. 


FINE  HOME-MADE  CANDLES.— For  these  the  ingre- 
dients are  in  the  following  proportion : — Take  ten  ounces  of 
fresh  mutton  fat  or  suet,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bleached  white 
wax,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  camphor,  and  two  ounces  of 
alum.  Cut  or  break  up  all  these  articles,  and  then  melt  them 
together;  skimming  them  well.  Have  ready  the  wicks, 
(which  should  be  previously  soaked  in  lime-water  and  salt- 
petre, and  then  thoroughly  dried,)  fix  them  in  the  moulds,  and 
pour  in  the  melted  liquid,  proceeding  as  in  the  receipt  for  com- 
mon mould  candles. 

Candles  made  in  this  manner  of  the  above  materials,  are 
hard  and  durable,  and  will  not  run ;  burning  also  with  a  very 
clear  light. 

15 


THE    HOUSE   BOOK.  ^ 

•  DIP  CANDLES. — These  may  be  made  of  the  fresh  suet 
or  fat  of  either  mutton  or  beef.  Melt  the  tallow  in  an  iron  pot, 
and  then  strain  it  into  a  deep  pan  or  crock.  Cut  the  wicks 
into  single  lengths,  tying  the  upper  end  of  each  over  a  stick, 
or  strong  straight  rod.  Then  dip  them  all  together  repeatedly 
into  the  pan  of  hot  tallow.  Jetting  them  cool  awhile  between 
each  dipping.  More  and  more  tallow  will  stick  to  them  every 
time.  You  may  shape  them  evenly  by  filling  an  iron  spoon  with 
the  tallow,  and  pouring  it  on  the  candles  wherever  they  seem 
to  want  it  most.  When  they  are  sufficiently  large  and  thick, 
place  them  out  of  doors  to  harden.  By  keeping  them  out  all 
night  in  cold  weather,  they  will  become  white  by  freezing. 

RUSH  LIGHTS.— Rush  lights  are  much  better  than  small 
dip  candles,  and  in  country  places  where  the  rushes  grow,  the 
expense  of  making  them  is  almost  nothing. 

When  the  meadow  rushes  have  attaihed  their  full  substance, 
but  are  still  green,  cut  them  and  bring  them  home  Trim  off 
both  ends  of  the  rush,  and  leave  the  prime  part,  which  should 
be  about  a  foot  and  a  half  long.  Then  take  off  all  the  green 
skin  that  surrounds  the  pith,  leaving  only  about  one-fifth  in  a 
perpendicular  strip  running  all  the  way  up  from  bottom  to  top 
of  the  rush ;  this  strip  is  to  hold  the  pith  together  all  the  way 
along. 

Have  ready  some  melted  tallow,  and  pour  it  liquid  into  a 
tall  crock,  or  something  as  high  as  the  length  of  the  rushes. 
Then  stand  up  the  rushes  in  the  grease,  and  let  them  soak  in  it 
thoroughly.  Afterwards  carry  the  crock  into  the  yard,  take 
out  the  rushes,  and  stand  them  up  to  cool  against  the  wall  or 
round  a  large  tree.  If  allowed  to  freeze,  they  will  be  the 
whiter; 

Rush  candles  give  a  clear  and  pleasant  light  for  a  sick  room. 


171 


FURNITURE,  &c. 


WALLS. — When  the  inside  walls  of  a  new  house  are  to  be 
painted,  the  plastering  is  hard-finished,  as  it  is  called,  to  pre- 
pare them  for  it ;  but  the  paint  should  not  be  put  on  for  a  year 
at  least,  (it  would  be  better  still  to  wait  two  years,)  as  before 
that  time  the  plastering  will  not  be  in  a  state  to  receive  it  pro- 
perly. Painting  the  walls  of  rooms  has  now  become  very 
customary  in  new  houses,  and  though  more  expensive  at  first, 
has  advantages  over  papering  that  have  brought  it  greatly  into 
U9,e ;  being  more  durable,  more  easily  cleaned  when  soiled,  not 
loosening  with  the  damp,  and  showing  the  furniture  to  greater 
advantage;  particularly  the  curtains,  mirrors,  and  pictures. 
The  ceiling,  of  course,  should  be  white  ;  otherwise  it  will  look 
iQW^and  gloomy,  unless  in  a  very  splendid  apartment,  where 
it  has  been  finely  painted  by  an  artist.  With  such  a  ceiling, 
it  is  usual  to  have  the  walls  of  the  room  painted  in  compart- 
ments, by  the  same  hand.  We  have  seen  walls  that  were 
painted  to  imitate  has  reliefs  of  white  marble ;  the  ceilings 
corresponding,  and  niade  to  look  as  if  coved  or  vaulted. 
Nothing  can  be  in  worse  taste,  than  a  painted  ceiling  with  a 
papered  wall,  however  expensive  and  elegant  the  paper. 

The  colour  of  the  walls  should,  on  no  account,  resemble  th^t 
of  the  furniture,  but  should  rather  present  a  decided  contrast. 
To  give  a  good  eiFect  to  a  room,  there  should,  as  in  a  picture, 
be  a  proper  and  harmonious  distribution  of  light  and  dark  tints 
throughout  all  the  objects  ;  every  one  assisting  to  bring  each 


172 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Other  out.  If  there  is  nothing  in  the  room  either  very  dark  or 
very  light,  the  aspect  of  the  whole  will  be  indistinct  and  con- 
fused. If  the  furniture  is  as  light-coloured  as  the  walls,  the 
whole  will  look  weak  and  insipid.  If  both  walls  and  furniture 
are  dark,  the  effect  will  be  heavy  and  gloomy ;  and  the  rooms 
will  light  very  badly  at  night. 

If  you  have  fine  pictures,  (oil-paintings,)  they  will  be  worth 
taking  every  means  of  showing  to  advantage.  Therefore,  as 
bright  colours  around  them  would  overpower  their  tints,  let 
the  walls  be  one  uniform  shade  of  a  quiet  and  sober  colour, 
something  like  pale  gray,  or  stone  colour,  or  pale  olive ;  but 
on  no  account  any  thing  of  a  blue,  red,  green,  or  yellow  tinge. 
On  each  side  of  all  the  principal  pictures  it  is  well  to  place  a 
bracket  supporting  a  lamp ;  thus  doing  justice  to  the  work  of 
the  artist,  and  assisting  at  the  same  time  to  light  the  room. 
"Where  there  are  no  pictures,  or  only  engravings,  the  walls  may 
be  painted  of  a  very  pale  pink  or  blossom  colour,  an  extremely 
delicate  light  green  or  blue,  or  of  any  buflf  or  yellowish  tint 
that  will  not  interfere  with  the  gilding  of  the  mirror  frames,  &c. 
Generally,  however,  the  safest  colour  to  set  off  the  furniture  is 
one  of  the  various  tints  of  gray,  including  light  stone-colour 
and  dove-colour.  The  curtains,  &c.,  should  always  be  darker 
than  the  walls ;  otherwise  the  effect  will  be  dull  and  insipid, 
for  want  of  contrast. 

Light  blue  looks  extremely  well  for  an  entry  and  stair-case. 
In  choosing  wall-paper,  avoid  that  which  has  a  variety  of 
colours  or  a  large  showy  figure,  as  with  such  a  paper  no  furni- 
ture whatever  can  appear  to  its  best  advantage.  The  wall, 
whether  painted  or  papered,  should  never  be  so  conspicuous  as 
to  interfere  with  the  objects  of  which  it  forms  the  background. 
The  most  tasteful  papers,  and  those  which  best  set  off  the  gilt 
frames,  lamps,  &c.,  are  those  whose  simple  and  unobtrusive 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


178 


figure  is  formed  by  different  tints  of  the  same  colour,  as  shaded 
grays,  &c.  All  wall-papers  should  be  very  light.  For  a  bor- 
dering round  the  top,  let  the  predominant  colour  correspond 
with  that  of  the  curtains.  A  deep  rich  bordering  gives  a  very 
handsome  finish  to  a  papered  wall. 

Large  figured  papering  makes  a  small  roohi  look  still  smaller. 
It  is  now  much  out  of  use 


CARPETS. — ^The  carpets  most  used  in  America  are  the 
Saxony,  Tournay,  and  Brussels,  for  the  best  apartments  of 
handsomely  furnished  houses.  Inferior  to  these  are  the  Wilton, 
the  Imperial,  Kiddefminster  or  Ingrain,  Venetian,  and  Scotch; 
which  last  is  the  lowest  in  price,  and  worst  in  quality.  Turkey 
carpets  are  now  very  rare.  They  are  made  square,  all  in  one 
piece,  and  are  extremely  thick,  heavy,  and  durable ;  but  tiieir 
colours  and  patterns  have  no  beauty,  and  they  accumulate 
much  dust,  and  are  so  cumbrous  as  to  be  extremely  difiicult 
to  shake. 

Wilton  carpets,  though  looking  very  handsomely  when  quite 
new,  are  less  durable  than  any  others ;  the  surface,  notwith- 
standing its  rich  and  velvet-like  appearance,  wearing  off  almost 
immediately ;  every  sweeping  bringing  away  a  portion  of  the 
wool.  Persons  who  have  had  no  experience  of  them  can 
scarcely  believe  in  how  short  a  time  a  Wilton  carpet  or  hearth- 
rug becomes  thread-bare. 

Venetian  or  striped  carpets  are  rarely  used,  except  for  stairs 
and  passages.  They  (as  well  as  Imperial  and  Ingrain  carpets) 
are  made  to  be  put  down  with  either  side  outwards. 

In  buying  a  carpet,  as  in  every  thing  else,  those  of  best  qua- 
lity are  cheapest  in  the  end.  As  it  is  extrmely  desirable  that 
they  should  look  clean  as  long  as  possible,  avoid  buying  a 
carpet  that  has  any  white  in  it.  Even  a  very  small  portion  of 
15* 


174  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

white  interspersed  through  the  pattern,  will  in  a  short  time 
give  a  dirty  appearance  to  the  whole ;  and  certainly  no  carpet 
can  be  worse  for  use  than  one  with  a  white  ground.  A  carpet 
in  which  all  the  colours  are  light,  never  has  a  clean,  bright 
effect,  from  the  want  of  dark  tints  to  contrast  and  set  off  the 
light  ones.  For  a  similar  reason,  carpets  whose  colours  are 
all  of  what  artists  call  middle  tint,  (neither  dark  nor  Ught,) 
cannot  fail  to  look  dull  and  dingy,  even  when  quite  new.  The 
caprices  of  fashion  at  times  bring  these  ill-coloured  carpets  into 
vogue ;  but  in  apartments  where  elegance  is  desirable,  they 
always  have  a  bad  effect.  For  a  carpet  to  be  really  beautiful 
and  in  good  taste,  there  should  be,  as  in  -a  picture,  a  judicious 
disposal  of  light  and  shadow,  with  a  gradation  of  very  bright 
and  of  very  dark  tints ;  some  almost  white,  and  others  almost 
or  quite  black.  The  most  truly  chaste,  rich,  and  elegant  car- 
pets are  those  where  the  pattern  is  formed  by  one  colour  only, 
but  arranged  in  every  variety  of  shade.  For  instance,  we  have 
seen  a  Brussels  carpet  entirely  red;  the  pattern  formed  by 
shades  or  tints  varying  from  the  deepest  crimson  (almost  a 
black)  to  the  palest  pink,  almost  a  white.  Also,  one  of  green 
only,  shaded  from  the  darkest  bottle-green,  in  some  parts  of 
the  figure,  to  the  lightest  pea-green  in  others.  Another,  in 
which  there  was  no  colour  but  brown  in  all  its  various  grada- 
tions, some  of  the  shades  being  nearly  black,  others  of  a  light 
buff.  All  these  carpets  had  much  the  look  of  rich  cut  velvet. 
The  curtains,  sofas,  &c.,  of  course,  were  of  corresponding 
colours,  and  the  effect  of  the  whole  was  noble  and  elegant. 

Carpets  that  present  a  great  variety  of  different  and  gaudy  co- 
lours, are  much  less  in  demand  than  formerly.  Two  colours  only, 
with  the  dark  and  light  shades  of  each,  will  make  a  very  hand- 
some carpet.  A  very  light  blue  ground,  with  the  figure  of 
shaded  crimson  or  purple,  looks  extremely  well ;  so  does  a 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


175 


salmon-colour  or  buflf  ground,  with  a  deep  green  figure ;  or  a 
light  yellow  ground,  with  a  shaded  blue  or  purple  figure.  If 
you  cannot  obtain  a  hearth-rug  that  exactly  corresponds  with 
the  carpet,  get  one  entirely  different;  for  a'  decided  contrast 
looks  better  than  a  bad  match.  We  have  seen  very  hand- 
some hearth-rugs  with  a  rich,  black,  velvet-looking  ground, 
and  the  figure  of  shaded  blue,  or  of  various  tints  of  yellow  and 
orange. 

No  carpet  decidedly  light-coloured  throughout,  has  a  good 
effect  on  the  floor,  or  continues  long  to  look  clean. 

To  preserve  expensive  carpets,  it  is  well  to  completely  cover 
the  floor  beneath  them  with  drugget,  or  with  coarse  matting, 
which  is  a  much  better  plan  than  to  spread  a  layer  of  straw 
between  the  floor  and  the  carpet ;  the  straw  (besides  the  diffi- 
culty of  spreading  it  perfectly  smooth  and  even)  accumulating 
much  dust,  that  works  up  through  the  carpet.  In  buying  a 
carpet,  (having  first'  measured  the  room,  and  calculated  the 
exact  quantity  with  the  utmost  accuracy,)  it  is  well  to  get  an 
additional  yard  or  two  to  lay  aside,  that  you  may  have  it  ready 
in  case  of  transferring  the  carpet  to  a  larger  apartment,  or  for 
the  purpose  of  repairing  any  part  that  may  be  worn  out  or  acci- 
dentally burnt. 

In  fitting  a  carpet  round  the  hearth,  (unless  there  is  border- 
ing,) do  not  cut  the  piece  entirely  out,  but  slit  it  down  at  each 
side,  and  having  herring-boned  the  edges  to  prevent  their  ravel- 
ling, turn  the  flaps  or  slips  inwards,  underneath  the  carpet. 
Or  you  may  turn  it  over,  and  tack  it  down,  so  as  to  be  outside 
of  the  carpet,  and  under  the  hearth-rug.  In  making  the  carpet, 
the  selvage  edges  must  be  held  together  (the  figure  exactly 
matching)  so  as  barely  to  meet,  but  not  to  lie  over  each  other. 
It  should  be  sewed  on  the  wrong  side,  with  the  strong  coloured 
thread  that  is  made  for  the  purpose  ;  taking  up  both  edgiss  at 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


the  same  time,  but  not  so  as  to  form  a  rid^e.  Each  stitch  must 
be  taken  behind  or  at  the  back  of  the  last ;  passing  the  needle 
backwards  and  forwards,  so  as  to  point  it  alternately,  first  from 
your  chest,  and  then  towards  it;  and  taking  care  not  to  hold 
one  side  of  the  selvage  lower  than  the  other,  and  not  to  draw 
your  thread  too  tightly.  If  properly  done,  the  seams  will  tread 
down  perfectly  flat.  If  you  find,  as  you  proceed,  that  you  have 
puckered  any  part  of  the  seam,  pick  it  out,  and  do  it  better ;  as 
the  slightest  incorrectness  in  matching  the  pattern  will  disfigure 
the  whole  carpet. 

When  the  seams  are  completed,  bind  the  edge  all  round  with 
regular  carpet-binding. 

A  carpet-fork  (to  be  obtained  at  the  hardware  stores)  is  an 
article  of  almost  indispensable  convenience  for  putting  down 
carpets.  It  is  to  be  stuck  by  a  strong  hand  into  the  extremities 
of  the  carpet,  after  it  is  laid  on  the  floor,  so  as  to  stretch  it  to 
the  utmost,  and  make  it  fit  tightly  and  evenly  all  over ;  while 
another  person  pulls  it  straight  and  smooths  it.  The  tack-nails 
must  not  be  too  small,  or  they  will  fail  in  securing  the  carpet 
firmly.  It  is  well  to  have  ready  a  sufficient  number  of  little 
bits  of  soft  buckskin  or  kid  leather,  to  stick  on  each  tack,  close 
under  the  head,  which  may  otherwise  fray  or  injure  the  carpet. 

An  extra  breadth,  tacked  down  in  front  of  the  sofa,  will 
assist  greatly  in  saving  that  part  of  the  carpet  from  wearing 
out ;  and  by  taking  care  to  match  the  figure  exactly,  it  can  be 
so  fixed  as  to  escape  notice. 

In  an  eating-room,  the  carpet  should  be  protected  fr(?in  crumbs 
and  grease-droppings  by  a  large  woollen  cloth  kept  for  the 
purpose,  and  spread  under  the  table  and  the  chairs  that  surround 
it ;  this  cloth  to  be  taken  up  after  every  meal,  and  sti§ken  out 
of  doors ;  or  else  swept  olF  carefully  as  it  lies.  It  will  also 
require  occasional  washing.  A  crumb-cloth  may  be  of  drugget, 


rURNlTURE,  ETC. 


177 


finished  round  the  edge  with  carpet-binding;  of  thick  green 
baize ;  or  very  strong,  stout  brown  linen. 

Have  always  a  regular  tack-box,  for  the  purpose  of  contain- 
ing new  tacks,  and  receiving  those  that  come  out  of  the  carpets 
when  they  are  taken  up.  Your  hammer  should  of  course  have 
a  claw  or  cleft  for  getting  out  nails.  Take  care  to  leave  no 
loose  tacks  lying  about  the  floor ;  as,  if  accidentally  trodden 
on,  they  may  cause  great  injury  to  the  foot. 

In  putting  away  carpets  for  the  summer,  after  they  have  been 
well  shaken  and  beaten,  fold  them  up,  and  lay  among  the  folds 
a  large  quantity  of  shreds  of  tobacco,  interspersed  with  bits  of 
camphor.  Wrapping  them  up  closely  in  linen  sheets  or  table- 
cloths, will  prove  an  additional  security  against  the  moths. 
The  linen  should  be  pinned  or  sewed  tightly  round  them. 

To  prevent  the  back  of  a  sofa  or  a  piano  from  rubbing  agabst 
the  wall,  and  defacing  it  with  marks,  prepare  two  narrow  slats 
of  heavy  wood,  about  a  foot  long,  and  in  thickness  and  breadth 
three  or  four  inches.  Cover  them  with  carpeting  of  the  same 
as  that  on  the  floor,  and  set  them  between  the  wash-board  and 
the  back  feet  of  the  sofa,  which  will  thus  be^  imperceptibly 
kept  off  from  the  wall. 

A  large,  heavy,  square  foot-cushion  of  coarse  linen,  stuflTed 
hard  and  firmly  with  hair,  or  with  upholsterers'  moss,  and 
covered  with  carpeting,  is  a  very  usual  and  excellent  accompa- 
niment to  a  rocking-chair.  These  cushions  must  be  made  so 
compact  and  substantial,  that  they  cannot  be  moved  unless 
intentionally.  If  lightly  and  loosely  stuffed,  (as  you  will 
generally  find  those  that  are  offered  for  sale  ready-made,)  they 
will  be  continually  shoving  from  under  your  feet,  and  kicking 
ahont  the  room.  It  is  well  always  to  bespeak  them  yourself, 
and  have  them  made  to  order.  There  is  no  foot-stool  so  com- 
fortable and  convenient  as  these  heavy  carpet-cushions,  parti- 


178 


XUE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


cularly  for  chambers,  sitting-rooms,  aiid  libraries.  In  hand- 
somely furnished  parlours  or  drawing-rooms,  the  foot-stools  are 
generally  of  mahogany,  and  covered  with  the  same  material  as 
the  sofas,  &c. ;  but  they  should  always  be  heavy,  so  as  not 
easily  to  overset. 

A  large  brick,  covered  with  a  piece  of  carpeting  sewed 
smoothly  all  over  it,  is  a  simple  but  good  contrivance  for  plac- 
ing against  the  door  to  keep  it  open  when  necessary. 

BED-ROOM  CMIPETS.— The  carpet  on  a  chamber  wiU 
lasfr  and  look  well  much  longer  if  there  are  extra  pieces  to  lay 
round  the  bed,  takirig.them  "up  and  shaking  them  every  day. 
In  front  of  the  washing-stand,  and  some  distance  beneath,  it  is 
well  to  have  a  breadth  of  ojj-cloth  nailed  down  upon  the  carpet, 
whick  will  thus  be  saved  from  much  injury  by  the  splashing 
of  water  in  emptying  pitchers  and  basins. 

The  custom  of  carpeting  chambers  all  over  in  summer,  though 
very  general  in  American  houses,  is  not  a  good  one.  It  seems 
to  add  to  the  heat  of  the  room,  is  very  uncomfortable  to  the  feet 
when  the  shoes  and  stockings  are  off,  and  causes  an  accumula- 
tion of  dust  which  seldom  fails  to  produce  insects,  and  is  in 
every  respect  a  great  sacrifice  of  convenience  to  show.  Also, 
the  carpet  of  course  will  not  last  half  as  long  if  in  use  all  the 
year.  In  England,  though  the  summers  are  much  cooler  than 
ours,  the  chamber  floors,  when  not  covered  with  matting  or  oil- 
cloth, have  in  the  warm  season  no  other  carpets  than  three 
small  ones  that  surround  the  bed,  and  are  removed  every  morn- 
ing before  the  bed  is  made.  These  bed-side  carpets  come  in 
sets,  are  frequently  very  elegant,  and  are  manufactured  expressly 
for  the  purpose,  each  having  a  border  and  middle-figure.  We 
could  wish  they  were  universally  introduced  into  America, 


FU.RNITtTRE,  ETCj 


179 


nothing  being  more  easy  to  sweep  and  wash  than  the  board 
floor,  from  which  they  can  be  removed  in  a  minute. 

In  families  that  are  unwilling  to  go  to  the  expense  of  matting 
for  their  chambers  in  summer,  we  recommend  that  the  carpet 
shall  nevertheless  be  taken  up  and  put  away  before  the  warm 
season  commences ;  substituting  for  the  above-mentioned  regu- 
lar bed-side  carpets,  three  pieces  of  carpeting  finished  with 
worsted  binding. 

'  STAIR-CARPETS.— Having  the  stairs  painted  white  (a 
Custom  now  greatly  in  use)  will  save  much  trouble  in  scrub- 
bing them.  When  painted,  all  they  require  is  to  be  Washed 
down  occasionally  with  a  flatmel  send  cold  -v^ater.  The  white 
paint  on  each  side  adds  much  to  the  effect  of  a  handsome 
coloured  stair-carpet.  Observing  the  pains  that  are  taken  by 
many  persons  to  prevent  their  wearing  out,  one  might  suppose 
that  a  stair-carpet  was  of  all  articles  of  furniture  the  most  costly. 
Some  are  guarded  by  a  covering  of  brown  linen,  which  almost 
immediately  becomes  soiled,  and  after  washing  looks  fit  only  to 
be  cut  up  into  kitchen  toveels.  Others  are  covered  all  the  way 
up  the  middle  with  a  strip  of  drugget,  (which  is  rather  better;) 
and  others  are  disfigured  by  slips  of  oil-cloth  nailed  along  the 
ledge  of  every  step.  All  recourse  to  these  Unsightly  methods 
of  saving  a  stair-carpet  miay  be  avoided,  by  simply  piir6hasing 
at  the  beginning  a  yard  and  a  half  ox  two  yards  more  of  the 
carpeting  than  is  actually  required  by  the  measure  of  your 
stairs.  In  putting  down  the  carpet,  let  this  additional  yard  be 
folded  smoothly  under,  either  at  the  head  or  the  foot  of  the 
stairs,  or  partly  at  both.  Whenever  the  stair-carpet  is  taken 
up  to  be  shaken  and  beaten,  (which  ought  to  be  at  least  once 
a  fortnight,  as  the  dust  accumulating  underneath  grinds  and 
wears  it  out,)  the  position  of  the  extra  quantity  at  the  end 


180 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK 


should  be  changed.  By  this  means,  the  same  part  of  the  car- 
peting will  not  be  all  the  time  wearing  against  the  staiis;  and 
what  was  last  upon  the  ledge,  will  be  now  against  the  flat  part. 

We  know  that  by  this  easy  plan  of  buying  at  the  beginning 
a  small  extra  quantity,  a  good  stair-carpet  has  been  made  to 
last  ten  years,  without  looking  in  the  least  amiss,  and  without 
the  expense,  trouble,  and  disfigurement  of  any  covering  or 
guard  whatever. 

For  a  long  or  lofty  staircase,  it  is  best  to  get  two  additional 
yards  of  the  carpeting. 

An  entry  or  hall  carpet  will  last  much  longer,  for  having  a 
large  mat  at  every  door  that  opens  into  it. 

Immediately  within  the  street  door,  the  vestibule  (if  not  of 
marble)  should  be  covered  with  oil-cloth.  Also,  oil-clotli  at  the 
back  door,  and  at  the  head  of  the  kitchen  stairs. 

A  stair-carpet  should  never  be  swept  down  with  a  long  broom, 
but  always  with  a  short-handled  brush,  and  a  tin  dust  pan  held 
closely  under  each  step  of  the  stairs  as  you  proceed ;  sweeping 
carefully  the  corners  and  between  the  bannisters,  which  should 
afterwards  be  wiped  and  rubbed  with  a  cloth.  If  they  are 
mahogany,  they  should  occasionally  be  cleaned  and  polished 
in  the  same  manner  as  mahogany  furniture. 

After  a  stair-carpet  is  taken  up  to  be  beaten  and  shaken,  the 
staircase  should  be  swept  very  clean,  preparatory  to  scrubbing : 
unless  it  is  painted,  and  then,  as  before  mentioned,  it  need  only 
be  washed  down. 


TO  SWEEP  CARPETS— Previous  to  sweeping  a  carpet, 
pick  up  whatever  shreds  or  clippings  may  be  lying  about,  as  it 
will  be  found  easier  to  remove  them  at  once,  than  to  be  pushing 
them  from  place  to  place,  all  over  the  room,  while  you  are 
sweeping  it.    Then  sprinkle  the  carpet  with  some  damp  tea- 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


181 


leaves,  which  should  always  be  saved  for  that  purpose,  by- 
putting  them  into  a  jar,  as  soon  as  the  tea-pot  is  emptied.  The 
tea-leaves  absorb  the  dust,  and  cause  the  carpet  to  look  cleaner 
and  brighter.  Then  go  over  the  carpet  with  a  corn  broom 
briskly  and  lightly ;  for  hard  heavy  sweeping,  will  wear  off 
the  surface  of  the  wool.  Having  first  swept  one  half,  remove 
all  the  chairs,  &c.,  to  that  part  of  the  room,  and  then  go  over 
the  remaiiider ;  carefully  sweeping  under  the  sofas  and  other 
fixtures.  When  you  have  reached  the  door  that  opens  into  the 
entry,  have  ready  there,  a  tin  dust-pan  with  a  short-handled 
brush ;  collect  in  it  all  the  sweepings  of  the  carpet,  and  carry 
them  away  at  once,  to  be  thrown  into  the  dust-hole. 

Drawing-room  carpets  of  the  finest  and  most  costly  descrip- 
tion, should  be  swept  with  a  hair  broom.  For  a  very  rich  car- 
pet on  a  small  apartment,  a  clean  hearth-brush  may  be  used. 

BEATING  A  CARPET.— When  a  carpet  is  taken  up  to 
be  beaten,  let  it  be  carried  out  by  two  men  into  a  large  open 
place,  (a  green,  for  instance,)  and  well  shaken.  Then  suspend 
it,  wrong  side  out,  on  a  stout  line  between  two  trees;  or  spread 
it  over  a  fence.  It  should  then  be  beaten  very  hard,  by  two  or 
four  men,  (according  to  its  size,)  each  person  having  a  pliable 
stick  or  rattan,  the  end  being  strongly  tied  round  with  cloth  so 
as  to  form  a  sort  of  knob,  which,  by  blunting  the  sharpness  of 
the  blows,  will  prevent  the  carpet  from  being  frayed,  and  the 
seams  from  splitting.  After  it  has  been  well  beaten  on  the 
wrong  side,  let  it  rest  a  while,  till  all  the  dust  has  blown  away ; 
and  then  turn  it  on  the  right  side,  and  give  it  a  thorough  beat- 
ing. When  no  more  dust  issues  from  it,  lay  the  carpet  on  the 
green,  fold  it  conveniently,  and  carry  it  back  to  the  house. 

Before  it  is  laid  down  again,  examine  it  all  over,  and  darn 
or  mend  any  parts  that  may  need  it;  using  for  the  purpose, 
16 


182 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


carpet-yam  of  the  respective  colours  that  compose  the  figure ; 
a  needle-full  of  each  as  it  may  be  required.  Also,  if  any  of 
the  binding  is  loose,  see  to  repair  it. 

While  the  carpet  is  getting  beaten,  the  floor  of  the  room 
should  be  swept  and  scrubbed. 

A  carpet  in  constant  use  will  require  beating  four  times,  if 
down  the  whole  year. 

A  half-worn  carpet  may  be  made  to  last  longer,  by  ripping  it 
apart,  and  transposing  the  breadths ;  so  as  to  make  those  that 
look  thin  and  threadbare,  go  to  that  part  of  the  room  where  they 
will  be  least  observed.  Or  the  best  part  may  be  taken  out,  and 
made  into  a  carpet  for  a  smaller  room. 


TO  WASH  A  CARPET.— Having  first  removed  the 
grease-spots,  by  the  repeated  application  of  Wilmington  clay, 
scraped  to  a  powder,  and  made  into  a  paste  with  a  little  water, 
and  having  taken  out  the  stains  with  hartshorn  diluted  with 
water,  take  up  the  carpet,  (saving  all  the  tacks,  by  putting  them 
into  a  box,)  and  have  it  carried  to  an  open  place,  to  be  well 
shaken  and  beaten  thoroughly  with  rattans,  so  as  to  get  out 
the  dust.  Then  let  the  floor  of  the  room  be  swept  and  scrubbed. 
When  the  floor  is  dry,  bring  back  the  carpet,  and  nail  it  down 
again,  stretching  it  well  with  a  carpet-fork.  Afterwards,  let  it  be 
well  scrubbed  all  over,  a  little  at  a  time,  with  a  long  scrubbing 
brush,  soap,  and  cold  water  in  which  has  been  mixed  a  tea- 
cup full  or  more  of  ox-gall,  to  preserve  the  colours.  Then 
wash  off  the  suds  with  plain  cold  water,  and  finish  with  a  dry- 
ing cloth,  with  which  it  must  be  made  as  dry  as  possible. 
Afterwards,  raise  the  window  sashes,  lock  the  door,  and  do 
not  let  the  room  be  used  till  the  carpet  is  quite  dry. 

An  ingrain,  imperial,  or  Brussels  carpet  washed  in  this  man- 
ner, will  look  very  much  like  a  new  one.   A  Wilton  carpet, 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


183 


or  any  one  in  which  the  pile  or  wool  is  chiefly  on  the  surface, 
cannot  be  scrubbed,  or  it  will  rub  oiF,  leaving  the  texture 
thread-bare. 

Those  parts  of  the  carpet  that  are  most  soiled  may  be  at  any 
time  scrubbed  with  a  small  hand-brush,  when  it  is  not  consi- 
dered necessary  to  undertake  a  general  washing  of  the  whole ; 
always  adding  a  little  gall  to  the  water  to  preserve  the  colours. 

OIL-CLOTHS  OR  PAINTED  CARPETS.— In  buying 
an  oil-cloth  for  a  floor,  (and  there  is  nothing  so  good  for  the 
hall  or  vestibule  of  a  house,)  endeavour  to  obtain  one  that  was 
manufactured  several  years  before ;  as  the  longer  it  has  been 
made  previous  to  use,  the  better  it  will  wear,  from  the  paint 
becoming  hard  and  durable.  We  have  seen  an  English  oil- 
cloth that,  not  having  been  put  down  till  five  years  after  it  was 
imported,  looked  fresh  and  new,  though  it  had  been  ten  years 
in  constant  use  on  an  entry  floor.  An  oil-cloth  that  has  been 
made  within  the  year  is  scarcely  worth  buying,  as  the  paint 
will  be  defaced  in  a  very  little  time,  it  requiring  a  long  while 
to  season. 

An  oil-cloth  should  never  be  scrubbed  with  a  brush ;  but, 
after  being  first  swept,  it  should  be  cleaned  by  washing  with 
a  large  soft  cloth  and  lukewarm  or  cold  water.  On  no  account 
use  soap,  or  take  water  that  is  hot;  as  either  of  them  will  cer- 
tainly bring  off  the  paint.  When  it  has  dried,  you  may  sponge 
it  over  with  milk,  which  will  brighten  and  preserve  the  colours ; 
and  then  wipe  it  with  a  soft  dry  cloth. 

For  a  kitchen  floor  that  is  not  painted,  there  is  no  better 
covering  than  a  coarse,  stout,  plain  oil-cloth,  unfigured,  or  all 
of  one  colour;  for  instance,  dark  red,  blue,  brown,  olive,  or 
ochre  yellow.  These  common  oil-cloths  are  almost  universal 
in  the  English  kitchens  and  laundries.   They  save  the  trouble 


184  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

of  scrubbing  the  floor,  it  being  only  necessary  to  wash  them 
off  with  a  wet  cloth ;  and  as  they  are  impervious  to  damp,  or 
to  cold  from  open  cracks  between  the  boards,  they  make  the 
kitchen  as  dry  and  warm  as  it  could  be  rendered  by  a  woollen 
carpet;  and  they  have  the  advantage  of  collecting  and  retaining 
no  dust  or  grease.  It  is  surprising  that  these  common  oil-cloths 
have  not  been  more  generally  introduced  into  American  kitchens. 


STRAW  MATTING— In  buying  matting  for  a  summer 
covering  to  the  floors  of  your  best  apartments,  do  not  get  that 
which  is  checkered  or  figured  with  two  colours.  The  effect  is 
never  good,  and  it  gives  a  common  and  ungenteel  appearance 
to  the  rooms.  If  figured  matting  is  used  at  all,  it  should  only 
be  in  the  inferior  parts  of  the  house.  Thin,  low-priced  matting 
should  also  be  avoided,  as  it  cuts  in  streaks,  and  wears  out  so 
soon  that  it  will  be  found  in  the  end  more  expensive  than  that 
of  the  best  quality.  In  fitting  it  to  the  floor,  do  not  allow  it  to 
encroach  on  any  part  of  the  hearth ;  as  that  will  preclude  the 
convenience  of  your  having  a  fire,  should  the  weather  be  unex- 
pectedly cold  after  the  matting  is  put  down,  or  before  it  is  taken 
up  for  the  season.  In  the  middle  and  eastern  sections  of  Ame- 
rica, it  is  best  not  to  put  down  the  matting,  and  arrange  the 
rooms  for  summer,  before  the  middle  of  June ;  and  it  should 
be  taken  up  and  replaced  with  the  carpets  before  the  middle  of 
September;  certainly  previous  to  the  cold  rains  which  we 
always  expect  about  that  season.  If  you  have  occasion  for  a 
fire  while  the  matting  is  still  down,  lay  the  rug  before  the 
hearth. 

Straw  matting  should  be  washed  but  seldom,  as  much  damp- 
ness is  injurious  to  it.  When  it  is  necessary,  however,  to  clean 
a  floor  mat,  do  it  by  washing  with  a  large  coarse  cloth  dipped 
in  salt  and  water ;  and  as  you  proceed,  wiping  it  dry  with  an- 


FURNITURE,    ETC.  185 

Other  coarse  cloth.  The  salt  will  prevent  the  matting  from 
turning  yellow. 

If,  in  putting  down  a  floor  mat,  you  have  occasion  to  join  it 
across,  ravel  about  an  inch  at  the  end  of  each  breadth,  and  tie 
or  knot  the  lengthway  threads  two  together.  Then,  turning 
all  these  knotted  threads  underneath,  lay  one  edge  over  the 
other  of  the  pieces  to  be  joined,  and  tack  them  down  to  the 
floor  with  a  row  of  very  small  tacks ;  each  tack  having  a  little 
bit  of  buckskin  on  it,  to  prevent  the  head  of  the  nail  from  injur- 
ing or  wearing  out  the  mat.  This  ravelling  the  ends  of  the 
breadths,  and  knotting  and  turning  under  their  threads,  obviates 
the  inconvenience  of  a  thick  conspicuous  ridge  if  the  edge 
of  the  matting  is  folded  under  in  its  full  substance. 

Worsted  binding  is  generally  used  for  matting;  but  as  this 
is  sometimes  destroyed  by  moths,  it  is  safer  to  secure  the  edge 
of  the  mat  with  the  sufficiently  durable  binding  of  coloured 
linen  or  thick  cotton  broad  tape,  to  be  had  of  all  colours  at  the 
carpet  stores. 

Straw  matting  is  not  advisable  for  a  stair-case.  It  wears 
out  very  soon  against  the  ledges  of  the  steps,  and  is,  besides, 
too  slippery  to  be  safe  for  those  that  go  up  and  down,  particu- 
larly if  they  have  to  carry  articles  that  may  be  broken.  Oil- 
cloth is  also  too  slippery.  ' 

For  a  stair-case  there  is  no  better  covering  (at  all  seasons) 
than  a  good  carpet.  If  the  principal  stair-case  has  been  painted 
all  over  white,  and  the  others  dark  gray,  no  covering  will  be 
needed  in  the  summer  season,  at  which  time  it  is  expected  that 
all  the  furniture  then  in  use  shall  be  as  light  and  as  little 
inconvenient  as  possible. 


RAG  CARPETS. — Though  we  highly  disapprove  of  put- 
ting rag  carpets  on  Jfitchen  floors,  in  consequence  of  the  dirt 

re* 


186 


TlHE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


and  grease  with  which  they  soon  become  saturated,  they  may 
be  advantageously  used  in  an  ironing-room ;  a  servants'"  sitting- 
room  ;  as  bed-side  carpets  for  domestics ;  or  for  other  purposes 
in  families  where  much  economy  is  necessary.  They  are  made 
of  old  cloth ;  for  instance,  of  coats,  pantaloons,  &c.,  that  can 
no  longer  be  worn.  After  it  has  been  well  brushed  and  beaten, 
rip  the  cloth  apart,  and  with  very  large  scissors  cut  it  into 
straight,  even  strips,  about  two  inches  wide,  laying  them  in  a 
basket  as  you  proceed.  Then  with  coarse,  strong,  brown 
thread  sew  together  the  ends  of  all  the  strips,  and  wind  them 
into  large  balls.  You  may  add  strips  of  old  carpeting,  green 
baize,  or  red  flannel.  When  you  have  collected  a  sufficient 
quantity,  send  them  to  the  weaver  and  have  them  woven  into  a 
carpet,  which,  though  certainly  far  from  handsome,  will  be 
thick,  strong,  and  durable. 

Rag  rugs  are  sometimes  made  entirely  of  old  ingrain  car- 
peting. 

PICTURES. — In  purchasing  specimens  of  the  fine  arts, 
select  only  such  as  are  good.  A  small  and  excellent  collection 
is  of  far  more  intrinsic  value,  and  evinces  better  taste  than  a 
large  number  of  bad,  or  even  tolerable  pictures,  that,  instead 
of  ornamenting  your  walls,  and  adding  interest  to  your  apart- 
ments, only  degrade  and  disfigure  them. 

Do  not  mix  engravings  and  oil-paintings  on  the  walls  of  the 
same  room.  Drawings  in  crayons  and  in  water-colours  may, 
however,  be  placed  with  prints.  Take  care  to  hang  none  of 
them  so  high  as  to  be  seen  to  disadvantage.  Those  that  are 
small  should  be  placed  quite  low,  and  judiciously  interspersed 
among  the  larger  ones.  Each  of  the  largest  and  finest  oil-pic- 
tures ought  to  be  lighted  by  a  pair  of  lamps,  placed  on  brackets, 
one  at  each  side. 


rURNITURE,  ETC. 


18T 


To  prevent  the  necessity  of  driving  nails  into  the  wall,  it  is 
now  very  usual,  in  handsome  apartments,  to  have  a  brass  rod 
fixed  all  round  the  cornice,  just  below  the  ceiling;  and  to  this 
rod,  are  fastened  long  ribbons,  (all  of  the  same  colour,)  to 
which  the  pictures  are  suspended,  with  a  handsome  bow  at 
each  ring.  Even  where  there  is  not  a  brass  rod,  it  is  better  to 
hang  the  pictures  by  long  ribbons,  from  brass-headed  nails  or 
hooks,  driven  at  the  height  of  the  cornice,  than  to  have  nail- 
marks  dispersed  all  over  the  walls. 

For  halls  and  libraries,  maps  on  rollers  are  more  appropriate 
than  pictures. 

In  getting  engravings  framed,  see  that  the  glass  is  as  clear  as 
possible ;  for  a  greenish  or  reddish  tinge  will  cause  the  print 
to  look  badly.  The  effect  of  an  engraving  is  greatly  improved, 
by  leaving  round  it  a  large  margin  of  the  white  paper. 

To  brighten  the  glass,  rub  it  with  a  buckskin  and  whiting, 
made  a  little  damp ;  and  then  wipe  it  with  a  silk  handkerchief. 
On  no  account  wash  it,  or  the  water  will  get  in  beneath,  and 
stain  the  engraving. 

"When  an  oil-painting  is  soiled,  smoked,  or  in  any  way 
defaced,  (also  when  it  wants  varnishing,)  it  is  best  to  send  it 
to  a  regular  picture-cleaner ;  as  an  inexperienced  person  may 
do  it  irreparable  injury ;  and  few  of  the  receipts  for  those  pur- 
poses are  to  be  depended  on. 

If  an  oil  picture  is  hung  over  a  mantel-piece,  the  canvas  is 
liable  to  wrinkle  with  the  heat. 

To  keep  clean  the  gilding  of  picture-frames,  dust  them  with 
a  soft  feather-brush ;  or  go  lightly  over  them  with  a  loose  bit 
of  the  inside  of  wadding,  or  of  carded  cotton. 

When  much  soiled,  the  best  remedy  is  to  send  them  to  be 
gilt  anew  ;  as  the  usual  receipts  for  cleaning  gilt  frames  will 
be  found,  on  trial,  ra.ther  injurious  than  benericial. 


188 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


CURTAINS. — Unless  the  chairs,  sofas,  &c.,  are  covered 
with  satin-hair,  the  curtains  should ,  of  course,  always  correspond 
with  them  in  colour,  if  not  in  material.  Also  with  the  carpet. 
As  we  have  before  observed,  the  colour  of  the  curtains  should 
contrast  that  of  the  walls,  always  being  darker  and  entirely 
different.  With  regard  to  the  fringe,  lace,  or  bordering  of  the 
curtains,  if  the  colours  do  not  harmonize  or  contrast  agreeably, 
and  according  to  the  dictates  of  good  taste,  the  effect  will  be  bad, 
no  matter  how  rich  or  expensive  the  materials.  For  instance,  two 
dark  colours  or  two  light  ones  should  not  go  together.  Scarlet 
curtains  trimmed  with  blue  or  yellow  do  not  look  well ;  but  bright 
scarlet  has  a  good  effect  with  dark  green  or  black.  A  rich,  deep 
crimson  contrasts  finely  with  an  extremely  light  and  beautiful 
blue ;  or  with  a  golden  yellow.  Curtains  of  a  full  blue,  may  be 
trimmed  with  black,  dark  brown,  orange,  or  bright  yellow.  Light 
blue  curtains  look  extremely  well  with  purple  trimmings,  or  with 
rich  brown.  Brown  curtains  appear  to  advantage  trimmed  with 
light  blue  or  pink.  Dark  grey  or  slate-colour  may  also  be  trimmed 
with  very  pale  pink  or  blue.  For  green  curtains,  light  lilac  trim- 
ming looks  well ;  also  golden  yellow.  Curtains  of  buff,  orange 
colour,  or  bright  yellow,  may  be  trimmed  with  purple,  brown, 
black,  deep  crimson,  or  light  blue.  Curtains  of  a  rich  purple, 
trimmed  with  orange,  or  golden  yellow,  have  a  magnificent  effect. 
A  very  light  blue  trimming  also  assimilates  well  with  purple. 

In  handsomely  furnished  houses,  the  most  usual  materials 
for  curtains,  are  silk  and  worsted  damask,  figured  satin,  and 
merino  cloth;  always  with  shades  or  inside  draperies  of  mus- 
lin, which  should  be  taken  down  and  washed  several  times 
during  the  season.  Chintz  curtains  are  now  seldom  seen  in 
America,  except  for  bed-rooms. 

It  is  not  a  good  custom  to  keep  the  curtains  up  during  the 
summer,  as  it  fades  them,  and  coyers  them  with  dust ;  besides 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


189 


which,  they  seem  to  increase  the  heat  of  the  rooms,  and  impede 
the  free  entrance  of  the  air.  Venetian  and  linen  hlinds  are  the 
best  shades  for  windows  in  summer  time. 


TO  CLEAN  CURTAINS.— This  should  always  be  done 
before  they  are  put  away  for  the  summer.  Having  taken 
down  the  curtains,  and  shaken  them  well,  brush  them  with  a 
small  long-haired  brush,  so  as  to  get  off  all  the  dust,  particu- 
larly from  between  the  gathers,  pleats,  or  flutings.  To  do  this 
conveniently,  the  different  parts  of  the  curtains  should  be  sepa- 
rated. Prepare  a  sufficient  quantity  of  good  wheat  bran ;  put 
it  into  a  large  pan,  and  place  it  before  the  fire  to  dry ;  stirring 
it  frequently  with  your  hands  while  drying.  Afterwards,  if 
the  curtains  are  of  silkj  mix  with  the  bran  an  ounce  or  more  of 
finely  powdered  indigo  blue.  Having  provided  several  pieces 
of  clean  soft  flannel,  spread  the  curtains  (a  piece  at  a  time)  on 
a  large  table,  and  sprinkle  them  with  the  bran,  a  handful  at  a 
time.  Next,  take  a  bit  of  the  flarmel,  and  with  it  rub  the  bran 
round  and  round  on  the  curtains,  letting  it  rest  a  while,  before 
you  brush  it  off.  As  you  proceed,  take  clean  bran  and  a  fresh 
piece  of  flannel,  and  continue  till  you  have  gone  sufficiently 
over  the  curtains,  which  by  this  process  will  be  much  bright- 
ened and  improved  in  appearance.  Then  fold  them  lightly  and 
smoothly;  and  if  they  are  of  merino,  worsted  damask,  or  cloth, 
lay  among  them  numerous  bits  of  camphor  to  preserve  them 
from  moths,  and  pin  or  sew  them  up  closely  in  old  linen 
sheets  or  table-cloths.  Then  put  them  away  in  a  chest  or 
closet. 

If  glazed  chintz  curtains  are  cleaned  regularly  in  this  manner, 
when  they  are  taken  down  towards  the  close  of  spring,  they 
will  not  require  washing  for  several  years. 

Ottomans  and  sofas,  whether  covered  with  cloth,  damask,  or 


190 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


chintz,  will  look  much  the  better  for  being  cleaned  occasionally 
with  bran  and  flannel. 

VENETIAN  BLINDS— As  they  are  intended  for  conve- 
nience rather  than  for  ornament,  it  is  not  necessary  that  Vene- 
tian blinds  should,  like  curtains,  have  a  conspicuous  effect  in 
the  room.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  better  that  their  colour  should 
as  nearly  as  possible  match  that  of  the  wall.  Green  Venetian 
blinds  are  getting  out  of  favour,  as  that  colour  fades  very  soon, 
spots  with  wet,  and  shows  the  dust  too  plainly.  Venetian 
blinds  should  every  day  be  dusted  with  a  small  brush  or  a 
turkey  wing,  and  wiped  with  a  soft  dry  cloth. 

LINEN  WINDOW  BLINDS.— These  blinds,  as  they 
soften  th^  glare  of  the  sun  without  excluding  the  light,  are 
extremely  useful  in  sitting-rooms  and  libraries.  It  is  best  to 
have  them  of  Jine  white  linen:  if  coarse,  the  light  that  comes 
through  them  will  not  be  clear,  the  thick,  uneven  threads  dis- 
turbing or  confusing  it.  Brown  hoUand  blinds  darken  the  room 
too  much.  You  can  procure  linen  wide  enough  to  make  each 
blind  without  a  seam.  They  should  be  sufficiently  long  to 
reach  from  the  top  of  the  window  to  the  bottom,  a  little  below 
the  sill ;  and  it  is  well  to  make  them  full  large  at  first,  as  they 
will  shrink  in  washing.  They  are  furnished  with  pulleys, 
tassels,  &c.,  and  are  fitted  up  by  the  upholsterers.  Care  must 
be  taken  that  the  little  wheels  or  pivots  over  which  the  cord 
is  made  to  run,  are  not  grooved  too  shallow,  as  that  defect  will 
cause  the  cords  to  slip  off  so  continually  as  to  render  them 
nearly  useless. 


PAPER  BLINDS  These  very  cheap  blinds  are  made  of 

wall-paper  lined  with  thick  domestic  muslin,  and  bound  with 


URNITURE,   ETC.  191 

worsted  ferret.  They  are  useful  in  common  bed-rooms,  for 
attics,  and  for  kitchens.  Being  double,  they  darken  the  room 
as  much  as  can  be  desired,  when  let  down  entirely.  They  look 
best  made  of  plain,  unfigured  wall-paper;  and  should  be  pasted 
smoothly  on  the  muslin  lining,  both  being  cut  so  as  to  fit  the 
window  from  the  top  to  the  sill.  When  quite  dry,  bind  them 
all  round,  and  sew  into  the  bottom  of  each  a  roller  made  of  an 
old  brush-handle  or  something  of  the  sort,  cut  off  to  the  proper 
length.  Nail  to  the  middle  of  the  window  frame,  over  the  top 
of  each  blind,  a  long  double  string  of  worsted  ferret,  so  as  to 
fall  or  hang  down  on  both  the  outside  and  inside.  By  tying 
or  untying  this  string,  you  can  fasten  up  or  let  down  the  blind 
to  any  height  that  is  convenient. 


SHORT  BLINDS.— These  are  very  useful  in  obviating  the 
inconvenience  of  being  seen  by  persons  passing  the  windows, 
or  of  being  exposed  to  the  view  of  opposite  neighbours.  Short 
Venetian  blinds,  opening  in  the  middle,  though  the  most  expen- 
sive, are  the  best  and  most  lasting.  Those  of  worsted  stuff  are 
seldom  used  but  for  office-windows.  For  sitting-rooms,  cham- 
bers, &c.,  the  blinds  generally  in  use  are  of  white  muslin. 
Those  of  plain  unfigured  Swiss  or  Scotch  muslin  look  much 
the  best,  but  are  more  easily  seen  through  than  when  the  mus- 
lin is  striped  or  cross-barred ;  if  the  latter,  let  the  cross-bars  be 
small  and  close.  Large  cross-bars  give  muslin  a  very  ungen- 
teel  look  for  all  purposes,  even  for  window  blinds.  Two  yards 
of  six-quarter  or  ell-wide  muslin  will  generally  be  sufficient  for 
a  pair  of  blinds.  They  should  reach  to  the  top  of  the  lower 
sash,  and  descend  to  the  window  sill.  Hem  the  bottom  of  each 
blind,  and  make  a  case  in  the  top,  through  which  run  a  tape, 
(securing  it  by  a  few  stitches  in  the  middle,)  and  leaving  long 


% 


1:92  THEHOUSEBOOK. 

ends  of  tape  to  wrap  tightly  round  the  nails  which  fasten  the 
blind  on  each  side  to  the  window  frame. 

There  should  be  two  sets  of  blinds,  as  they  will  frequently 
require  washing.    It  is  well  always  to  starch  them  a  little. 

MAHOGANY  FURNITURE— The  handsomest  and  best 
mahogany  is  generally  used  for  furniture  that  is  not  carved. 
As  the  beauty  of  the  wood  shows  to  no  advantage  in  carving, 
that  of  the  best  quality  is  reserved  for  plain  furniture.  If  not 
wellrseasoned,  new  mahogany  will  warp  and  crack,  particularly 
if  kept  in  a  warm  room.  It  is  best  always  to  buy  it  from  a 
cabinet-maker  of  established  reputation.  New  furniture  that 
is  offered  for  sale  considerably  under  the  usual  price  is,  in  most 
cases,  found  to  be  a  bad  bargain.  Furniture  made  in  the  win- 
ter, and  brought  immediately  from  a  cold  ware-room  into  a 
warm  apartment,  is  very  liable  to  crack.  It  is  well  to  place 
your  principal  table  so  that  the  grain  of  the  wood  shall  be 
across  the  fire-place  rather  than  lengthways  or  with  the  end  of 
the  grain  towards  the  heat.  Observing  this  precaution  has 
prevented  many  a  table  from  cracking.  If  possible,  it  is  always 
best  to  have  your  new  furniture  made  in  the  spring,  that  it  may 
have  several  months  for  seasoning,  before  the  commencement 
of  fires.  I 

If  a  mahogany  table  becomes  very  much  defaced  by  scratches, 
hackings,  or  scorchings,  let  it  go  to  a  cabinet-maker's  to  be 
planed  and  polished.    It  will  then  look  as  well  as  new. 

Tables,  &c.,  with  marble  tops,  though  the  most  costly  at 
first,  will  be  found,  perhaps,  cheapest  in  the  end.  They  are 
easily  kept  clean,  by  merely  wiping  ihem  every  day  with  a 
soft  cloth,  and  washing  them  once  a  week  with  cold  water, 
soap,  and  a  flannel ;  they  require  no  cloth  to  cover  them,  and 
there  is  no  danger  of  their  splitting  or  warping  with  the  heat. 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


193' 


ROSE-WOOD.— This  is  the  wood  of  the  amyris,  a  small 
West  Indian  tree.  Its  colour  is  not  red,  but  of  a  dark  rich 
brown,  and  it  is  now  much  used  for  veneering  handsome  furni- 
ture. Chairs,  sofas,  &c.,  of  rosewood,  should  not  be  covered 
with  a  dark-coloured  material.  Sky-blue,  orange-colour,  or 
bright  green  harmonize  extremely  well  with  it. 

To  keep  rose-wood  furniture  in  good  order,  it  should  be 
rubbed  gently  every  day  with  a  clean  soft  cloth,  and  this  will 
be  sufficient.  Preparations  of  wax,  oil,  &c.,  cannot  be  applied 
without  injuring  its  appearance. 

CURLED  MAPLE. — ^This  is  a  very  pretty  wood,  is  easily 
kept  in  order,  and  never  changes  colour.  It  is  extremely  suit- 
able for  chambers,  libraries,  and  for  dining-room  chairs.  It  is 
seldom  used  for  drawing-room  furniture,  being  considered  too 
light,  and  not  sufficiently  rich.  For  a  sofa,  or  for  chairs  with 
stuffed  bottoms,  maple  should  always  be  contrasted  with  a  very 
dark  colour,  (for  instance,  black,  brown,  purple,  or  deep  crim- 
son,) its  effect  being  bad  with  light  blue,  green,  yellow,  &c. 

Curled  maple  furniture  requires  no  other  cleaning  than  rub- 
bing with  a  dry  cloth. 

BLACK  WALNUT  WOOD.— This  is  now  much  in  use 
for  furniture,  and  looks  extremely  well  when  not  opposed  to  a 
very  dark  colour.  Where  the  wood  is  black  walnut,  the  sofas, 
cushions,  &c.,  look  best  of  sky-blue,  grass-green,  scarlet,  rose 
crimson,  or  bright  brown.  None  of  these  colours,  however, 
should  be  too  light,  or  the  contrast  will  be  too  great.  Dark 
brown,  dark  crimson,  dark  green,  or  purple,  have  a  very  gloomy 
and  heavy  effect  when  united  with  black  walnut. 

Clean  it  as  you  would  mahogany. 

17 


194  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

I 

ROCKING-CHAIRS— The  practice  of  swaying  backwards 
and  forwards  in  a  parlour  rocking-chair,  is  considered  obsolete 
in  genteel  society;  and  justly  so;  as  it  is  a  most  ungraceful 
recreation,  particularly  for  a  lady,  (to  say  nothing  of  its  ten- 
dency to  cause  dizziness  in  the  head,)  and  very  annoying  to 
spectators,  who  may  happen  to  be  a  little  nervous.  Rocking- 
chairs  are  now  only  used  for  the  purpose  of  reclining  in  with 
ease  and  convenience,  to  which  the  rockers  add  greatly,  as  by 
their  means,  the  chair  can  be  tilted  and  kept  stationary  in  any 
position  that  is  desired,  provided  always  there  is  a  footstool  or 
heavy  cushion  in  front,  to  rest  the  feet  on ;  and  without  such 
an  accompaniment,  no  chair  of  this  description  can  be  com- 
pletely comfortable. 

Parlour  rocking-chairs  are  best  of  mahogany  and  black  satin 
hair,  no  other  covering  keeping  clean  so  long,  and  being  so 
cool  in  summer.  Those  that  are  covered  with  cloth,  worsted 
damask,  or  cut  velvet,  will  be  found  uncomfortably  rough,  and 
also  too  warm. 

For  common  chambers,  rocking-chairs  of  curled  maple  and 
.  cane  net-work  are  very  good,  being  light,  cool,  and  cheap.  In 
winter,  or  for  invalids,  they  may  be  improved  in  comfort,  by 
furnishing  them  with  cushions  for  the  bottom,  the  back,  and 
the  two  arms ;  the  cushions  made  of  coarse  linen,  stuffed  with 
feathers  or  hair,  covered  with  chintz,  and  tied  on  with  strings. 

FLOWER-STANDS.— There  is  a  very  pretty  flower-stand 
called  a  jardiniere.  It  is  made  in  the  form  of  a  small  maho- 
gany table,  with  a  top  like  a  dinner  tray.  Into  this  tray  fits 
a  painted  block-tin  pan  of  the  same  size,  with  a  movable  wire 
cover  of  trellis-work,  the  net  large  and  open.  This  pan  is  filled 
with  wet  sand,  and  the  trellis-work  cover  is  then  laid  on. 
Take  your  flowers  (the  stalks  cut  all  of  a  length)  and  stick 


FtTRNITURE,  ETC. 


196 


them  firmly  down  through  the  wire  netting  into  the  sand  be- 
neath. The  flowers  should  be  tastefully  arranged,  with  the 
largest  in  the  centre,  and  the  smallest  round  the  edges ;  and 
there  must  be  a  sufficient  quantity  of  them  to  form  a  mass  or 
close  bed.  Or  you  may  have  the  central  flowers  taller  than  the 
others,  which  should  gradually  diminish  in  height  all  around 
them,  till  the  small  ones  near  the  edge  are  but  just  above  the 
rim  of  the  frame.  Arranged  in  this  manner,  they  will  look 
like  a  bank  of  flowers. 

The  jardiniere  has  a  loose  extra  top  of  mahogany,  which  fits 
in,  and  converts  it  into  a  complete  table  when  not  in  use  for 
flowers.  / 

In  forming  bouquets  or  nosegays,  always  put  the  largest, 
fullest,  and  most  substantial  flowers  in  the  centre,  (for  instance, 
roses,  dahlias,  camellias,  &c.,)  and  those  that  are  smallest, 
lightest,  and  most  branchy,  on  the  outside. 

Flowers  may  be  placed  very  handsomely  in  green  baskets 
filled  with  wet  sand. 


SCRAP-JARS. — It  is  a  great  convenience  to  keep  standing 
on  the  floor,  in  a  corner  of  the  room,  a  very  large  jar,  for  the 
purpose  of  receiving  bits  of  waste  paper  or  clippings,  which 
there  may  be  no  immediate  way  to  get  rid  of.  If  of  china,  one 
of  these  jars  will  add  a  handsome  ornament  to  the  parlour. 
For  a  library  (where  they  are  particularly  useful)  you  may  get 
from  a  grocer,  a  very  large  raisin-jar  of  unglazed  earthen,  and 
have  it  painted  all  over  in  oil,  so  as  to  imitate  china,  afterwards 
varnishing  it.  For  a  chamber,  or  a  common  sitting-room,  we 
have  seen  these  earthen  jars  decorated  all  over  with  flowers, 
&c.,  cut  out  of  furniture  chintz,  pasted  on  securely,  and  after- 
wards coated  with  varnish.  If  done  with  taste,  they  look  ex- 
tremely well.    From  the  form  of  these  jars,  and  being  small 


199 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


at  the  mouth,  their  contents  are  not  observed,  unless  purposely 
looked  into,  and  they  will  be  found  excellent  receptacles  for 
refuse  paper,  &c.,  particularly  in  sunmier,  when  there  is  no  fire 
to  consume  these  scraps. 


CLIPPING  BAGS. — In  a  room  where  any  sewing  is  done, 
a  clipping  bag  will  be  found  very  useful  to  hang  in  a  conve- 
nient place,  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  shreds,  shapings,  &c., 
of  the  articles  cut  out  and  sewed  there.  The  very  smallest  bits 
and  scraps  of  linen,  cotton,  or  silk  (even  ravellings)  are  useful 
to  the  paper-makers ;  and  nothing  that  is  useful  should  be  burnt 
or  destroyed.  If  all  the  females  of  our  country  made  a  principle 
of  saving  in  this  manner  the  whole  of  their  shreds  and  clippings, 
and  also  all  their  rags,  there  would  be  less  necessity  for  import- 
ing rags  from  Europe :  which  is  constantly  done  to  a  very  large 
amount,  in  consequence  of  the  scanty  supply  to  be  obtained  in 
America. 

A  clipping  bag  may  be  made  very  handsome  and  ornamental ; 
in  which  case  it  should  always  be  put  away  in  a  closet  while 
the  room  is  being  swept.  When  this  bag  is  full,  let  it  be 
emptied  into  the  large  general  rag-bag  which  should  be  kept 
in  every  house.  Though  the  price  given  for  a  pound  of  rags 
is  but  a  few  cents,  still  even  that  is  something,  and  will  at  least 
buy  some  needles,  or  pins,  or  a  cotton-spool ;  and  if  a  lady 
chooses,  she  can  give  the  money  to  the  servant  who  conveys 
the  rags  to  the  rag-man. 

TO  CLEAN  VARNISHED  MAHOGANY  FURNI- 
TURE.— Take  rotten-stone  very  finely  powdered,  sift  it 
through  book-muslin,  and  mix  it  with  sweet  oil.  Then,  with 
a  clean,  soft,  linen  or  cotton  cloth,  rub  it  very  hard  on  the  ma- 
hogany.   Next  take  a  clean  cloth,  dip  it  in  wheat  flour,  and 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


10^ 


with  it  rub  off  the  rotten-stone.  Afterwards  dust  off  the  flour 
with  a  clean  silk  handkerchief.  The  furniture  will  be  found 
to  look  beautifully.  It  is  only  necessary  to  clean  it  in  this 
manner  about  once  in  three  or  four  months;  but  it  should 
every  day  be  dusted  with  a  soft  cotton  cloth. 

TO  CLEAN  UNVARNISHED  MAHOGANY  TABLES.  ^ 

 Wipe  the  table  all  over  with  a  clean  damp  cloth.  Then  take 

a  thin,  broad,  flat  furniture  cork,  and  rub  it  hard  on  all  the 
white  spots  or  other  stains.  Next  take  a  brush  with  a  little 
bees-wax  on  it,  and  rub  the  table  very  hard,  going  according 
to  the  grain  of  the  mahogany.  Afterwards  rub  off  the  wax 
with  a  flannel  cloth,  and  finish  with  a  soft  cotton  cloth. 

Have  a  basket  or  a  large  coarse  bag  to  contain  all  that  is 
necessary  for  the  mahogany  rubbing :  brush,  cork,  bees-wax, 
cloths,  &c.    Before  using  it  warm  the  wax  a  little. 

TO  POLISH  DINING-TABLES.— Take  cold-drawn  lin- 
seed oil,  and  rub  it  on  for  a  long  time  with  a  very  soft  cloth. 
This  is  the  best  way  to  prevent  dining-tables  from  being  marked 
by  the  hot  dishes. 

WAX  POLISH.— Melt  bees-wax  in  spirits  of  turpentine, 
with  a  very  small  proportion  of  rosin.  When  it  is  entirely 
dissolved,  dip  in  a  sponge  and  wash  the  mahogany  lightly 
over  with  it.  Immediately  afterwards,  rub  it  off  with  a  clean 
soft  cloth.  For  the  carved  work,  spread  on  the  mixture  with 
a  small  soft  brush,  and  rub  it  off  with  another  brush  a  very 
little  harder. 


TABLE  MIXTURE.— Mix  well  together  two  ounces  of 
spirits  of  turoentine.  four  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil,  and  one 
17* 


198 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


quart  of  milk.  Put  it  into  bottles,  and  cork  it  closely.  When 
large  tables  are  unusually  soiled  and  stained,  (for  instance, 
after  a  dinner  or  supper  party,)  shake  up  the  mixttlre,  pour 
some  of  it  into  a  saucer,  dip  into  it  a  clean  sponge,  and  rub 
your  table  all  over  with  it  quickly  and  evenly.  Then  dry  it 
with  a  clean  flannel,  and  afterwards  rub  it  hard  with  a  clean 
soft  cloth. 


SOFAS  AND  MAHOGANY  CHAIRS— With  your  hand 
beat  the  dust  out  of  the  backs,  bottoms,  and  cushions.  Then 
with  a  painter's  bristle  brush,  that  has  never  been  in  paint, 
brush  over  all  the  mahogany,  to  get  the  dust  out  of  the  carving. 
This  should  be  done  every  day  in  rooms  that  are  continually 
in  use.  When  it  is  necessary  to  give  the  chairs,  &c.,  a  greater 
cleaning,  use  (if  the  mahogany  is  varnished)  sweet  oil,  rubbed 
on  with  a  flannel,  and  finished  off  with  a  silk  handkerchief; 
or,  what  is  still  better,  finely  powdered  and  sifted  rotten-stone, 
mixed  with  sweet  oil.  If  the  mahogany  is  not  varnished,  have 
ready  two  ounces  or.more  of  bees-wax,  scraped  down  and  put 
into  a  jar  with  as  much  spirits  of  turpentine  as  will  cover  it. 
This  must  stand  till  the  wax  is  entirely  dissolved.  Put  a  little 
on  a  flannel,  or  on  a  bit  of  green  baize,  rub  it  on  the  chairs,  and 
polish  them  with  a  brush. 

In  buying  or  bespeaking  a  sofa,  see  that  the  seat  is  not  too 
high  and  narrow,  that  the  stufiing  of  the  back  does  not  project 
too  far  forward,  and  that  the  arms  are  not  too  low ;  with  these 
defects  any  sofa  will  be  uncomfortable. 

Chairs  whose  backs  incline  forward  are  extremely  inconve- 
nient, as  they  allow  little  more  than  their  edge  to  the  sitter, 
who  is  also  obliged  to  keep  bolt  upright,  and  remain  stiffly  in 
the  same  position^ 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


199 


TO  CLEAN  ALABASTER  Make  a  mixture  in  the  pro- 
portion of  two  ounces  of  aqua-fortis  to  a  pint  of  cold  rain  or 
river  water,  which  ought  first  to  be  filtered,  as  it  is  important 
that  the  water  used  for  this  purpose  should  be  perfectly  clear. 
Dip  a  clean  brush  in  this  liquid,  and  wash  the  alabaster  with 
it  for  five  minutes  or  more.  There  should  be  a  brush  small 
enough  to  go  into  the  most  minute  parts.  Then  rinse  it  with 
cold  clear  water,  and  set  it  in  the  sun  for  two  or  three  hours 
to  dry. 

The  aqua-fortis  will  make  the  alabaster  very  white;  and, 
being  so  much  diluted,  will  do  it  no  injury.  Soap  should  never 
be  used  for  alabaster,  as  it  will  greatly  discolour  it. 

Alabaster  ornaments  ought  to  be  cleaned  in  the  above  man- 
ner, previous  to  covering  them  up  for  the  summer.  If  kept 
always  uncovered,  they  wUl  require  cleaning  with  aqua-fortis 
and  water  twice  a  year,  spring  and  autumn 


WHITE  MARBLE.— White  marble  door-steps  should  be 
washed  every  morning  (except  in  freezing  weather)  with  cold 
water  and  soap.  This  is  the  custom  in  Philadelphia.  Grease 
may  be  removed  from  them,  by  rubbing  on  some  fine  marble- 
dust  (procured  from  the  marble-cutters)  mixed  into  a  paste  with 
cold  water,  and  put  on  with  a  brush ;  repeating  the  process, 
till  the  grease  disappears. 

Marble  tables  may  also  be  washed  with  cold  water  and  soap. 

The  white  marble  used  for  vases,  busts,  and  very  elegant 
mantel-pieces  or  tables,  being  of  the  finest  quality,  and  highly 
polished,  cannot  be  washed  with  soap  and  water  without  injury. 
The  best  way  to  keep  it  clean  and  bright  is,  by  rubbing  it  daily 
with  a  soft  dry  cloth,  or  a  clean  silk  handkerchief.  Stains  and 
grease-spots  may  be  extracted  from  it  by  rubbing  them  well 
with  salt  of  sorrel,  salt  of  tartar,  or  magnesia  finely  powdered. 


200 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Let  the  powder  remain  two  or  three  hours  on  the  spot ;  then 
wipe  it  olF,  and  renew  it  till  the  mark  disappears. 

COLOURED  MARBLE.  —  Black,  gray,  or  variegated 
marble  may  be  made  very  clean,  by  rubbing  on  it  with  a  brush 
a  paste  compound  of  a  jill  of  ox-gall,  a  jill  of  strong  soap-suds, 
and  half  a  jill  of  turpentine,  all  mixed  together  and  thickened 
with  finely  powdered  pipe-clay.  You  should  have  a  second 
brush,  small  enough  to  go  into  the  fluting,  &c.  Having  applied 
this  paste  to  the  marble,  let  it  remain  undisturbed  for  two  days. 
Then  wipe  it  off;  and  if  you  do  not  find  the  marble  perfectly 
bright  and  clean,  repeat  the  mixture  a  second  or  a  third  time, 
and  it  will  certainly  succeed  by  repetition. 

Grease-spots  (even  those  of  lamp-oil)  may  be  removed  from 
a  marble  hearth,  by  covering  the  place  thickly  with  scraped 
Wilmington  clay,  wiping  it  oflf,  and  renewing  it  every  two  or 
three  hours. 

Grease  may  also  be  taken  out,  by  rubbing  the  stone  with  a 
mixture  of  pearl-ash,  lime,  and  water,  made  into  a  paste  or 
mortar ;  leaving  it  on  several  hours ;  then  wiping  it  off,  and 
repeating  it. 

Iron  stains  may  be  removed  from  marble,  by  wetting  the 
spots  with  oil  of  vitriol,  or  with  lemon-juice;  or  with  oxalic 
acid  diluted  in  spirits  of  wine,  and  after  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
rubbing  them  dry  with  a  soft  linen  cloth.  The  same  applica- 
tions will  take  out  other  stains  from  marble. 

The  general  appearance  of  a  gray  marble  hearth  will  be 
greatly  brightened  and  improved,  by  rubbing  it  occasionally 
with  a  flannel  wet  with  linseed  oil.  The  oil  must  be  rubbed 
in  very  hard,  so  as  not  to  coino  off  and  grease  any  thing  that 
may  afterwards  touch  it.  Next  day  go  over  it  with  a  clean 
dry  cloth. 


FURNITURE,   ETC.  201 

STONE  HEARTHS. — Hearths  of  free-stone  or  of  brown 
sand-stone,  should  first  be  washed  clean  in  hot  soap-suds,  and 
then  rubbed  with  a  paste  or  mortar,  made  of  the  powder  or  dust 
of  the  same  stone,  (to  be  obtained  at  the  stone-cutter's,)  mixed 
with  a  little  water.    Leave  it  to  dry  on,  and  then  brush  it  off. 

A  kitchen  hearth-stone  may  occasionally  be  rubbed  all  over 
very  hard  with  lamp-oil ;  next  day  washing  it  well  with  soap 
and  warm  water. 

BRICK  HEARTHS.— Brick  hearths  should  be  painted 
either  red  or  black ;  or  with  the  back  part  black,  and  the  front 
part  red.    They  will  require  new  painting  at  least  twice  a  year. 

If  not  painted,  it  is  best  to  keep  the  hearth  clean  by  daily 
washing ;  as  both  the  redding  and  blacking  mixtures  sometimes 
used  for  hearths  are  troublesome  from  their  liability  to  rub  off, 
and  from  their  too  frequently  requiring  a  renewal, 

CLEANING  SILVER.— The  articles  necessary  for  this 
purpose  should  be  kept  by  themselves  in  a  basket  or  box.  You 
will  want  clean  flannels,  sponges,  buckskins,  old  silk  hand- 
kerchiefs, and  plate-brushes  of  two  or  three  different  sizes ; 
among  which,  one  resembling  a  soft  tooth-brush  will  be  found 
useful  for  the  minute  parts  of  the  chasing,  and  to  rub  between 
the  prongs  of  the  forks.  None  of  the  brushes  should  be  hard, 
lest  they  scratch  the  plate.  Silver  that  is  in  daily  use  should 
be  cleaned  once  a  week,  (for  instance,  every  Thursday,)  but 
plated-ware  not  so  often,  as  the  plating  will  wear  off  if  rubbed 
too  frequently ;  a  brush  should  never  be  used  to  it. 

Both  silver  and  plated-ware  should  be  washed  with  a  sponge 
and  warm  soap-suds,  every  day  after  using,  and  wiped  dry  with 
a  clean  soft  towel.  Always  before  you  give  them  their  regu^M 
cleaning  with  powder,  see  that  they  have  been  washed  perfectly 


\ 


203 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


free  from  grease  or  any  like  impurity ;  otherwise  they  cannot 
be  made  to  look  bright  and  well  when  finished. 

The  most  common  method  of  cleaning  silver,  is  with  pulve- 
rized whiting  and  whisky  :  or  with  spirits  of  wine,  which  is 
better.  The  whiting  must  be  made  as  fine  as  possible ;  for  if 
there  are  any  coarse  or  rough  particles  among  it,  they  will 
scratch  the  silver.  You  may  powder  it  very  finely^  either  by 
pounding  it  in  a  mortar,  or  by  tying  it  up  in  a  clean  rag,  laying 
it  down  on  the  hearth,  and  beating  it  with  a  hammer ;  after 
which,  spread  it  thinly  over  a  large  plate,  and  place  it  before 
the  fire  to  dry.  Then  sift  it  through  a  piece  of  coarse  book- 
muslin  or  leno.  Mix  the  whiting  into  a  paste  or  cream,  with 
whisky  or  spirits  of  wine ;  and  by  dipping  a  flannel  or  sponge 
into  it,  coat  the  silver  all  over  with  the  mixture ;  after  which, 
lay  all  the  articles  in  the  sun  to  dry ;  or  place  them  on  an  old 
japanned  waiter,  before  the  fire,  but  not  very  near  it.  The  paste 
must  become  so  dry  on  the  articles,  that  you  may  dust  it  oif 
them  like  flour,  with  a  soft  cloth.  Afterwards,  with  the  small- 
est brush,  rub  between  the  prongs  of  the  forks,  and  go  over  all 
the  minute  or  delicate  parts  of  the  silver.  The  plain  or  unorna- 
mented  parts  are  best  rubbed  with  flannel,  as  they  show  the 
most  trifling  scratches.  Next,  polish  with  a  buckskin  or 
a  shammy  leather ;  and  finish  with  a  soft  silk  handkerchief. 

The  above  mode  of  cleaning  (if  done  weekly)  will  be  suffi- 
cient for  silver  that  is  in  common  use,  and  will  keep  it  always 
bright.  Its  appearance  may  be  improved,  and  a  look  of  new- 
ness given  to  it,  by  employing  occasionally  (but  not  very  often) 
the  reddish  powder  called  plate-rouge,  as  a  substitute  for 
whiting  and  whisky.  This  powder  is  to  be  obtained  from  the 
druggists,  and  should  be  used  in  very  small  quantities.  After 
the  silver  has  been  well  washed  in  warm  soap-suds  and  dried 
perfectly,  rub  on  a  little  of  the  rouge  with  a  soft  buckskin, 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


203 


using  a  brush  for  the  crevices.  Let  it  rest  about  ten  minutes ; 
then  wipe  it  all  off  with  a  soft  rag,  and  polish  with  a  clean 
buckskin;  finishing  with  a  silk  handkerchief. 

When  silver  has  become  much  tarnished,  spotted,  or  dis- 
coloured, it  may  be  restored  by  the  following  process.  Having 
dissolved  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  powdered  alum  in  a  quart  of 
moderately  strong  lye,  stir  jn  a  jill  of  soft  soap,  and  remove 
the  scum  or  dross  that  may  rise  to  the  surface.  After  washing 
the  silver  in  hot  water,  take,a  sponge  and  cover  every  article 
all  over  with  this  mixture.  Let  the  things  rest  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  frequently  turning  them.  Next  wash  them  off  in 
warm  soap-suds,  and  wipe  them  dry  with  a  soft  cloth.  After- 
wards brighten  them  with  rouge-powder,  or  with  whiting  and 
spirits  of  wine. 

Another,  and  a  very  excellent  way  of  cleaning  silver,  is 
with  what  is  called  prepared  chalk,  which  is  rather  better  than 
\!{rhiting,  and  requires  no  sifting.  Mix  together  in  a  tin  pan,  pre- 
pared chalk  and  spirits  of  wine,  till  they  are  as  thick  as  cream. 
Rub  it  on  the  silver  with  a  soft  flannel,  and  then  rub  it  off  with 
a  buckskin.  Take  a  small  brush  for  the  chasing  or  embossed 
work,  and  finish  with  a  very  soft  cloth  and  a  silk  handkerchief. 

Another  way,  and  which  is  said  to  preserve  the  polish  better 
than  any  of  the  xisual  modes  of  cleaning  silver,  is,  after  it  has 
been  washed  with  hot  water,  to  go  over  it  with  a  paste  made 
of  fine  hartshorn  powder  (well  sifted)  and  spirits  of  turpentine, 
rubbed  on  with  a  leather  and  not  wiped  off  till  it  has  dried. 
Then  polish  with  a  clean  buckskin ;  and  set  the  plate  in  the 
sun  and  air  to  dispel  the  smell  of  the  turpentine. 

Chests,  or  closets  constructed  for  the  purpose  of  containing 
plate,  should  be  placed  in  the  dryest  part  of  the  house,  and 
lined  all  through  with  green  baize  or  other  woollen  cloth.  It 
is  well  to  have  them  of  iron,  and  made  fire  proof.  Plate 


204 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


baskets  should  also  be  lined  throughout  with  green  baize.  If 
silver  is  kept  in  a  damp  place,  it  is  liable  to  tarnish  and  spot 
continually. 


TO  REMOVE  MEDICINE  STAINS  FROM  SILVER 
SPO.ONS. — Silver  spoons  frequently  become  discoloured  by 
using  them  in  taking  medicine.  These  stains  (even  that  of 
muriate  of  iron)  may  be  removed  by  rubbing  the  spoon  with  a 
rag  dipped  in  sulphuric  acid,  and  afterwards  washing  it  off  in 
soap-sups,  and  then  cleaning  the  spoon  in  the  usual  manner. 


A  FINE  PLATE  MIXTURE— Take  one  pound  of  the 
best  whiting,  or  of  prepared  chalk,  and  rub  it  to  a  fine  powder. 
Then  sift  it.  Mix  together  four  ounces  of  spirits  of  turpentine : 
two  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine :  one  ounce  of  spirits  of  cam- 
phor, and  half  an  ounce  of  spirits  of  hartshorn.  Then  add  the 
whiting  gradually  to  the  liquid,  stirring  in  a  little  at  a  time, 
and  mixing  the  whole  thoroughly  till  it  is  of  the  consistence 
of  cream :  put  it  into  a  very  close  vessel,  (a  large  bottle,  or  a 
white  jar,)  and  cork  it  tightly,  tying  down  a  leather  over  the 
cork.  To  use  the  mixture,  pour  out  a  sufficient  portion  into  a 
bowl  or  pan,  and  with  a  soft  clean  sponge  cover  the  silver  with 
it  so  as  to  give  it  a  coat  like  white-wash.  Set  the  silver  aside 
for  ten  minutes  or  more  till  the  paste  has  dried  into  a  powder. 
Then  brush  it  off,  and  polish  first  with  a  buckskin,  then  with  a 
silk  handkerchief. 

It  will  be  found  very  convenient  to  keep  this  mixture  always 
in  the  house.    It  makes  the  plate  look  beautifully  new. 

ANOTHER  PLATE  MIXTURE.— Pulverize  an  ounce 
of  lump  camphor,  mix  it  with  fifty  drops  of  sweet  oil,  and 
dissolve  it  in  a  pint  of  whisky.    Put  it  into  a  bottle  and  keep 


FURNITTTRE,  ETC. 


205 


it  very  closely  corked.  When  you  wish  to  use  it,  mix  with  it 
a  sufficiency  of  powdered  whiting  or  prepared  chalk  to  make  a 
thin  paste,  and  coat  the  silver  all  over  with  it.  After  it  is  dried 
on,  brush  it  off,  and  polish  with  a  buckskin  and  silk  handker- 
chief; using  a  small  brush  for  the  cavities  and  chasings. 


TO  OBTAIN  VERY  FINE  WHITING.— Pour  water  on 
it.  Then  after  a  while,  pour  off  the  water  from  the  whiting 
that  has  settled  at  the  bottom,  and  replace  it  with  more  water. 
Let  it  settle  for  a  time,  and  then  again  pour  off  the  water  from 
the  top.  By  repeating  this  process  several  times,  you  will 
obtain  a  whiting  that,  after  it  has  been  spread  out  to  dry  in  the 
sun,  will  be  as  fine  as  flour.  Put  it  away  for  use  in  a  closely 
covered  box. 


CLEANING  PLATED  WARE.— Plated  ware  must  not 
be  cleaned  as  frequently  as  silver,  lest  the  plating  should  wear 
off.  If  not  greasy,  it  will  be  sufficient,  after  using,  to  wip  eit 
with  a  soft  cloth.  If  greasy,  wash  it  in  a  small  tub  of  strong 
hot  soap-suds ;  taking  out  each  article  quickly,  and  wiping  it 
immediately  with  a  soft  linen  cloth  ;  using  a  clean  flannel  to  dry 
it  thoroughly,  and  finishing  with  a  silk  handkerchief.  Once  a 
fortnight  it  may  be  cleaned  by  covering  it  with  prepared  chalk 
finely  powdered,  and  made  into  a  paste  with  sweet  oil.  When  the 
mixture  has  dried  on,  wash  it  off  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  spirits 
of  wine  or  whisky.  Then  rub  the  article  dry  with  a  soft  flan- 
nel, and  finish  with  a  silk  handkerchief.  It  is  best  to  use  no 
brush  for  plated  ware,  and  to  give  it  less  rubbing  than  if  it 
were  silver.  With  careful  cleaning  the  best  plated  ware  will 
last  a  long  time. 

18 


206  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

SILVER  AND  PLATED  CANDLESTICKS.— To  re- 
move wax  or  spermaceti  from  silvei^or  plated  candlesticks, 
pour  on  them  a  little  warm  (not  boiling)  water,  and  when  it 
has  melted  the  grease,  wipe  it  off  with  a  flannel.  To  loosen 
the  grease  by  scraping  with  a  knife  will  scratch  the  silver. 
Then  wash  the  candlesticks  well  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  warm 
soap-suds,  taking  care  not  to  wet  the  green  baize  that  is 
cemented  under  the  bottom,  lest  the  moisture  should  loosen  it. 
Wash  the  candlesticks  one  at  a  time,  and  wipe  each  one  dry- 
before  you  wash  another.  Then  clean  them  with  fine  whiting 
or  prepared  chalk  and  whisky,  in  the  usual  manner,  or  with 
whiting  and  sweet  oil. 

Plated  candlesticks  should  b&  cleaned  but  seldom  with  any 
sort  of  powder,  and  never  with  a  brush.  Their  utmost  rubbing 
should  be  with  a  soft  flannel.  But  every  morning  let  the  wax 
or  spermaceti  be  melted  off  with  warm  water,  and  then  wipe 
them  clean  with  a  soft  cloth. 


GERMAN  SILVER.— Forks  of  this  composition  are  much 
in  use ;  and  when  very  good  it  has  a  resemblance  to  genuine 
silver,  and  is  equally  durable.  It  is  by  no  means  costly,  and 
when  properly  taken  care  of,  and  kept  bright,  it  looks  very  well. 
After  using,  it  should  be  put  immediately  into  hot  water,  washed 
well,  and  wiped  dry  with  a  soft  cloth.  Once  a  week  let  it  be 
washed  in  soap-suds,  and  then  cleaned  with  very  fine  whiting 
or  prepared  chalk,  mixed  with  whisky  or  spirits  of  wine,  so 
as  to  make  a  paste,  which  should  afterwards  be  brushed  off". 
Should  this  metal  become  discoloured  or  spotted  by  vinegar  or 
other  acids,  wash  it  first,  and  then  clean  it  with  sweet  oil  and 
powdSred  rotten-stone. 

Spoons  of  German  silver  are  useful  for  many  common  pur- 
poses, particularly  when  making  sweetmeats,  &c. 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


BRITANNIA  METAL.— Powder,  as  fine  as  possible,  half 
a  pound  of  lump  whiting,  and  sift  it  well.  Then  mix  with  it 
a  wine-glass  of  sweet  oil,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  soft  soap,  or  a 
bit  of  yellow  soap  melted  in  a  little  water.  Add  to  this  mixture 
sufficient  rum,  whisky,  or  spirits  of  wine  to  make  it  the  con- 
sistence of  thick  cream.  Dip  into  it  a  soft  sponge  or  a  flannel, 
and  rub  it  quickly  and  evenly  on  the  article ;  wipe  it  olF  with 
an  old  linen  or  cotton  cloth,  and  polish  it  by  rubbing  with  a 
buckskin. 

Britannia  metal  is  frequently  manufactured  with  so  large  a 
portion  of  copper  as  to  render  the  use  of  the  article  extremely- 
unwholesome.  Tea  and  coffee-pots  of  this  metal  have  been 
known  to  give  the  liquid  contained  in  them  so  strong  a  taste 
and  smell  of  copper,  as  to  render  the  drinking  it  almost  equal 
to  swallowing  poison.  When  an  article  of  Britannia  metal  is 
found  to  contain  too  much  copper,  the  use  of  it  should  be  imme- 
diately given  up,  as  no  process  whatever  can  render  it  otherwise 
than  deleterious. 

The  safest,  and  in  every  respect  the  most  pleasant  tea-pots, 
are  those  of  china.  Wedgwood  ware  is  very  apt,  after  a  while, 
to  acquire  a  disagreeable  taste. 


BLOCK  TIN  DISH  COVERS,  &c.— Having  washed  the 
block  tin  articles  quite  clean  in  warm  water,  rub  the  inside  with 
soft  rags  moistened  with  fine  wet  whiting.  Then  take  a  soft 
linen  cloth,  and  go  over  the  outside  with  a  little  sweet  oil. 
Next  rub  it  all  over  with  fine  whiting,  powdered  and  sifted, 
and  put  on  dry.  Afterwards  finish  with  a  clean  dry  cloth. 
Block  tin  dish  covers  cleaned  in  this  way  with  oil  and  whiting, 
will  preserve  their  polish,  and  continue  to  look  new,  provided 
that  they  are  always  wiped  dry  as  soon  as  they  are  brought 


208  THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 

I 

from  table,  and  no  steam  or  other  damp  is  allowed  to  remain 
on  them. 

Common  articles  of  block  tin,  such  as  kettles,  sauce-pans, 
&c.,  may  be  cleaned  with  whiting  and  water  only.  You  may 
clean  pewter  in  the  same  manner. 


COMMON  TINS.— Throw  some  wood-ashes  into  a  wash- 
kettle,  pour  on  water  till  it  is  two-thirds  full,  and  then  let  it 
boil.  Or  make  a  strong  lye.  Dip  in  the  tins  when  it  is  boil- 
ing hot ;  and,  if  they  are  very  dirty,  leave  them  in  about  ten 
minutes.  Take  them  out,  and  cover  them  with  a  mixture  of 
soft  soap  and  the  very  finest  sand.  This  must  be  rubbed  on 
with  a  coarse  tow-cloth.  Then  rinse  them  in  a  tub  of  cold 
water,  and  set  them  in  the  sun  to  drain  and  dry.  When  dry, 
finish  by  rubbing  them  well  with  a  clean  woollen  cloth  or  flan- 
nel.   They  will  look  very  nice  and  bright. 

You  may  clean  pewter  in  the  same  manner. 


CLEANING  JAPANNED  WAITERS,  URNS,  &c.— 
Rub  on  with  a  sponge  a  little  white  soap  and  some  luke-warm 
water,  and  wash  the  waiter  or  urn  quite  clean.  Never  use  hot 
water,  as  it  will  cause  the  japan  to  scale  off.  Having  wiped 
it  dry,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  it;  let  it  rest  a  while,  and  then 
rub  it  with  a  soft  dry  cloth,  and  finish  with  a  silk  handker- 
chief. If  there  are  white  heat  marks  on  the  waiters,  they  will 
be  difficult  to  remove.  But  you  may  try  rubbing  thera  with  a 
flannel  dipped  in  sweet  oil,  and  afterwards  in  spirits  of  wine. 

Waiters  and  other  articles  oi papier  mache,  should  be  washed 
with  a  sponge  and  cold  water  without  soap,  dredged  with 
flour  while  damp,  and  after  a  while  wiped  off,  and  then  po- 
lished with  a  silk  handkerchief. 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


20^ 


TO  CLEAN  JAPANNED  CANDLE-STICKS,  fee- 
Pour  on  water  just  warm  enough  to  melt  the  grease,  for  if  scald- 
ing hot  it  will  injure  the  japan.  Next  wipe  them  well  with  a  soft 
cloth;  sprinkle  them  with  flour  from  the  dredging  box:  let 
them  rest  a  while,  and  then  wipe  them  off  with  a  clean  cloth. 

Japanned  urns,  waiters,  &c.j  should  be  cleaned  with  a  sponge 
and  cold  water,  finishing  with  a  soft  dry  cloth.  So  also 
should  India  lacquered  articles. 

TO  CLEAN  DECANTERS,  &c.— Place  a  funnel  in  the 
mouth  of  the  decanter,  and  pour  through  it  some  small  shot,  or 
some  raw  un-pared  potato  cut  into  little  square  bits,  or  some 
pounded  egg-shells.  Have  ready  in  a  small  tub,  a  strong  suds  of 
white  soap  and  cold  water,  which  will  be  the  better  for  having 
a  little  pearl-ash  dissolved  in  it :  or  a  few  drops  of  muriatic 
acid  mixed  with  the  water  will  greatly  improve  the  polish  of 
the  glass.  Dip  out  some  of  the  suds,  pour  it  into  the  decanter 
(through  the  funnel)  and  shake  it  about  with  the  shot,  or  cut 
potato,  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  till  you  see  all  the  impurities 
disappear  from  the  inside  of  the  glass.  Then  empty  it  out, 
put  in  some  more  suds,  and  wash  round  the  inside  with  a  bit 
of  sponge  tied  on  the  end  of  a  stick.  It  is  well  to  have  a 
regular  glass-stick,  which  should  be  more  than  a  foot  in  length, 
with  a  flat  knob  at  the  end  on  which  to  fasten  a  sponge  or  a 
soft  rag.  After  having  washed  the  decanters  in  the  above 
manner,  rinse  them  out  twice  with  clear  cold  water.  Next  put 
them  into  the  tub  of  clean  soap-suds,  and  wash  them  well  on 
the  outside  with  a  glass-brush,  (a  brush  with  a  broad  handle 
and  short  bristles,)  and  afterwards  rinse  the  outside  in  clean 
water.  Dry  the  inside  with  a  bit  of  soft  rag  fixed  to  the  end 
of  your  glass-stick,  and  wipe  the  outside  with  a  soft  towel, 
finishing  with  a  silk  handkerchief,  or  a  shammy  leather,  or  a 
18* 


210 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


soft  buckskin ;  rubbing  well  into  all  tbe  cavities,  if  the  glass 
IS  cut. 

Wine-glasses  and  tumblers  should  be  washed  in  the  same 
manner  with  cold  soap-suds  and  a  glass-brush,  finishing  them 
as  above. 

Common  glasses  that  are  in  daily  use,  may  be  washed  sim- 
ply with  cold  water;  drained,  wiped,  and  then  finished  with  a 
fine  dry  towel. 

Glass  cloths  should  be  of  fine  quality,  that  there  may  be  as 
little  lint  as  possible. 

For  cruets  from  the  castors,  it  will  be  necessary  to  have  the 
water  warm :  but  not  hot,  as  glasses  break  when  hot  water  is 
poured  into  them.  After  the  cruets  are  emptied  of  their  con- 
tents for  the  purpose  of  washing,  fill  them,  as  far  as  the  neck, 
with  warm  water ;  shake  them,  and  let  them  stand  a  while  to 
soak.    Then  proceed  as  directed  for  decanters. 

Boiling  water  should  never  be  poured  suddenly  into  glass, 
particularly  in  frosty  weather.  Besides  the  danger  of  its  crack- 
ing in  hot  water,  it  looks  brighter  and  clearer  when  done  in  cold. 


TO  LOOSEN  GLASS  STOPPEES.— When  there  is 
diflTiculty  in  removing  a  glass  stopper,  pour  round  it  a  little 
sweet  oil,  close  to  the  mouth  of  the  bottle.  Then  lay  it  near 
the  fire  with  the  mouth  towards  the  heat,  and  when  it  gets 
quite  warm,  wrap  a  thick  cloth  round  the  end  of  a  stick,  and 
strike  (but  not  too  hard)  first  at  one  side  of  the  stopper,  then 
at  the  other.  This  will  soon  loosen  it.  Or  you  may  set  the 
bottle  in  a  vessel  of  warm  water,  previous  to  striking  at  the 
stopper. 


CLEANING  CUT  GLASS.— Having  washed  your  cut- 
glass  articles,  and  let  them  rest  till  thoroughly  dry,  rub  them 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


211 


with  prepared  chalk,  and  a  soft  brush,  carefully  going  into 
all  the  flutings  and  cavities.  Then  finish  with  a  clean  soft 
buckskin. 

TO  WASH  VIALS. — In  most  families  are  gradually  collected 
a  number  of  vials  that  have  been  used  for  medicine.  It  is  well 
to  have  a  basket  purposely  to  keep  them  in,  and  once  in  a  while 
to  wash  them  all,  that  they  may  be  ready  to  send  to  the  drug- 
gist's when  new  medicine  is  wanted.  Put  into  a  wash-kettle 
some  sifted  ashes,  and  pour  on  it  a  sufficiency  of  cold  water. 
Then  put  in  the  vials,  (without  corks,)  place  the  kettle  over 
the  fire,  and  let  it  gradually  come  to  a  boil.  After  it  has  boiled 
a  while,  take  it  off,  and  set  it  aside ;  letting  the  vials  remain 
in  till  cold.  Then  take  them  out,  rinse,  drain  them,  and  wipe 
the  outsides. 

You  may  wash  black  bottles  in  tne  same  manner. 
If  you  have  occasion  to  wash  a  single  vial  or  bottle,  pour 
into  it  through  a  small  funnel  either  some  lye,  or  some  luke- 
warm water  in  which  a  little  pearl-ash  has  been  dissolved ; 
shake  it,  and  let  it  stand  a  while  to  soak.  Then  rinse  it  well 
in  cold  water,  two  or  three  times.  If  it  still  smells  of  the 
former  contents,  soak  it  in  more  pearl-ash  water,  (with  the 
addition  of  a  little  lime,)  or  in  more  lye. 

CLEANING  LOOKING-GLASSES.  — First  wash  the 
glass  all  over  with  clean  luke-warm  soap-suds  and  a  sponge. 
When  dry,  rub  it  bright  with  a  buckskin  and  a  little  prepared 
chalk,  finely  powdered.    Finish  with  a  silk  handkerchief. 

This  is  also  an  excellent  way  to  clean  the  inside  of  windows ; 
it  makes  the  glass  beautifully  clear. 

Another  very  good  way  of  cleaning  a  mirror,  is  to  wash  it 
first  with  a  sponge  and  cold  water,  and  afterwards  with  a  soft 


213  THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 

flannel  dipped  in  whisky  or  spirits  of  wine,  which  will  effect- 
ually remove  from  it  all  smears  and  fly-marks.  Then,  having 
wiped  it  dry  with  a  soft  linen  cloth,  rub  over  it  with  a  soft 
flannel  a  little  powder-blue,  or  else  fine  whiting.  Let  it  rest  a 
while,  and  then  rub  it  off  with  a  silk  handkerchief. 

In  cleaning  looking-glasses,  take  care  that  no  moisture 
touches  the  gilding  of  the  frame.  To  clean  a  burnished  gilt 
frame,  nothing  is  better  than  to  go  over  it  lightly  with  bits 
of  soft  cotton  wool,  or  a  piece  of  the  inside  of  new  wadding; 
having  first  dusted  it  with  a  feather  brush. 

A  mahogany  frame  should  be  first  well  dusted,  and  then 
cleaned  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  sweet  oil ;  using  a  small  brush, 
for  the  carvings,  if  there  are  any,  and  finishing  with  a  silk 
handkerchief.    The  frame  should  be  cleaned  previously  to  the 
glass. 


TO  CLEAN  GILT  LAMPS,  CHANDELIERS,  CAN- 
DLE-BRANCHES, &c.— Having  first  wiped  off  the  dust  from 
the  articles  to  be  cleaned,  make  a  strong  suds  of  the  finest  white 
soap  (palm  soap  will  do)  and  soft  luke-warm  water,  and,  dip- 
ping into  it  a  clean  sponge,  wash  carefully  every  part  of  the 
gilding.'  Then,  with  a  small  soft  brush,  (a  tooth-brush,  for 
instance,)  go  lightly  into  all  the  hollows,  crevices,  and  most 
delicate  parts  of  the  work  with  the  soap-suds,  taking  care  not 
to  rub  hard.  When  you  find  that  the  water  has  become  dirty, 
replace  it  with  clean  suds.  Finish  by  drying  the  articles  with 
an  old  silk  handkerchief. 

Unless  your  servants  are  unusually  careful,  do  not  intrust 
this  work  to  them,  lest  they  break  off  some  of  the  minute  orna- 
ments, or  rub  so  hard  as  to  deface  the  gilding. 

This  mode  of  cleaning  will  not  succeed  with  the  frames  of 
pictures  or  mirrors.    For  them  there  is  no  safe  remedy,  when 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


2ia 


they  are  soiled  and  discoloured,  but  to  have  them  newly 
gilt. 

Chandeliers  should  be  dusted  at  least  once  a  week,  (or 
oftener  i£  necessary,)  with  one  of  those  long-handled,  soft  fea- 
ther brushes  made  for  such  purposes.  Great  care  is  requisite 
in  dusting  them,  (even  in  this  manner,)  as  the  drops  and  other 
ornaments  must  be  touched  with  the  utmost  delicacy.  This 
work,  also,  should  not  be  intrusted  to  any  but  the  most  careful 
domestics. 

Bronzed  chandeliers,  lamps,  &c.,  should  be  merely  dusted 
with  a  feather  brush  or  with  a  soft  cloth.  Washing  them  will 
take  off  the  bronzing. 

CLEANING  KNIVES  AND  FORKS.— It  is  an  excellent 
way  to  have,  at  dinner-time,  on  a  side-table,  a  deep,  tall,  japanned 
or  painted  mug  or  can,  filled  with  sufficient  hot  water  to  cover 
the  blades  of  the  knives  and  forks,  but  not  enough  to  reach  to 
their  handles,  which  the  hot  water  would  split  or  loosen.  As 
the  plates  are  taken  from  the  table,  the  servant  who  waits 
should  at  once  stand  the  knives  and  forks  upright  (blade  down- 
wards) in  this  vessel  of  warm  water,  which  will  prevent  the 
grease  from  drying  on  them,  and  make  them  very  easy  to  wash 
when  dinner  is  over.  Afterwards,  let  them  be  carried  out  in 
the  knife-basket,  which  should  be  lined  with  tin.  Then  wash 
them  with  water,  warm,  but  not  hot,  and  a  soft  cloth  ;  and  wipe 
them  dry  on  a  clean  towel,  always  turning  the  back  or  dull 
edge  towards  your  thumb.  Besides  the  washing,  as  many  as 
are  wanted  for  use  should  be  cleaned,  previous  to  every  meal, 
on  a  board  with  brick-dust ;  otherwise  they  will  neither  be 
bright  nor  sharp. 

The  knife-board  should  be  of  soft  pine,  free  from  knots,  five 
or  six  feet  long,  and  made  with  standers  or  feet  at  the  ends, 


214 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


like  a  bench.  It  will  last  much  longer  if  the  part  most  used 
is  covered  with  leather.  A  yard  is  a  good  height  for  a  Icnife- 
board.  At  one  end  have  a  small  box,  to  contain  the  leathers, 
bricks,  fork-sticks,  &c.  What  is  called  Bath  brick  is  the 
proper  sort  for  cleaning  knives ;  it  is  whitish  and  soft.  Rub 
the  brick  up  and  down  on  the  board  till  you  have  got  off  a  suf- 
ficieAcy  of  powder ;  or  you  may  take  a  brick  in  each  hand  and 
rub  them  together.  Then,  taking  one  knife  at  a  time,  hold  the 
handle  firmly  in  your  hand,  and  with  a  quick  motion  rub  the 
blade  (on  both  sides)  in  the  brick-dust,  taking  care  not  to  bear 
on  too  hard,  lest  you  break  it.  By  practice,  you  may  learn  to 
clean  two  knives  at  once,  holding  one  in  each  hand,  back  to 
back.  As  you  do  them,  lay  them  aside  till  you  are  ready  to 
wipe  them  off.  Replenish  the  board  with  fresh  brick-dust  as 
you  go  on.  When  they  are  all  rubbed  bright,  wipe  off  the 
knives  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  put  them  into  your  knife-box, 
which  should  be  previously  wiped  out  quite  clean.  If  you 
have  steel  forks,  rub  their  backs  on  the  brick-dust  board  till 
they  are  very  bright.  Have  by  you  a  small  flat  stick  of  pine 
wood,  shaped  like  a  knife-blade,  about  the  length  of  your  mid- 
dle finger,  and  covered  with  leather.  Dip  it  into  the  brick-dust, 
and  rub  it  between  the  prongs  of  the  forks,  to  clean  and  brighten 
them.  Then  wipe  them  carefully  with  your  knife-cloth,  stick- 
ing the  forks  through  its  corners,  to  get  out  all  the  brick-dust 
from  betweeu/the  prongs. 

Another  way  to  clean  steel  forks  is,  to  keep  always  beside 
the  knife-board  a  box  or  a  small  keg,  filled  with  chopped  hay 
or  straw  and  fine  sand,  in  alternate  layers,  pressed  down  very 
hard,  and  having  sand  mixed  with  brick-dust  at  the  top.  The 
contents  must  all  be  packed  closely,  and  kept  damp  by  occa- 
sional wetting.  Plunge  the  steel  part  of  the  forks  a  few  times 
into  this;  then  wipe  them  afterwards  with  a  clean  cloth^ 


/ 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


215 


(inserting  the  comer  between  the  prongs,)  and  then  polish  them 
with  the  fork-stick,  without  brick-dust. 

Handles  of  ebony  should  be  cleaned  with  a  soft  cloth  dipped 
in  a  little  sweet  oil ;  and  after  resting  a  while  with  the  oil  on 
them,  let  them  be  well  wiped  with  a  clean  towel.  Ivory  or 
bone  handles  ought  to  be  washed  with  a  soaped  flannel  and 
lukewarm  water,  and  then  wiped  with  a  dry  towel.  To  pre- 
serve or  restore  their  whiteness,  soak  them  occasionally  in 
alum-water  that  has  been  boiled  and  then  grown  cold.  Let 
them  lie  for  an  hour  in  a  vessel  of  this  alum-water.  Then  take 
them  out,  and  brush  them  well  with  a  small  brush,  (a  tooth- 
brush will  do,)  and  afterwards  take  a  clean  linen  towel,  dip  it 
in  cold  water,  squeeze  it  out,  and,  while  wet,  wrap  it  round  the 
handles,  leaving  them  in  it  to  dry  gradually ;  as,  if  dried  too 
fast  out  of  the  alum-water,  they  will  be  injured.  If  properly 
managed,  this  process  will  make  them  very  white. 

To  keep  knives  and  forks  in  good  order,  when  not  in  conti- 
nual use,  and  to  restore  them  when  found  rusty,  have  them  well 
cleaned,  and  then  rub  the  steel  part  with  a  flannel  dipped  in 
sweet  oil,  or  in  melted  mutton  suet.  Let  them  rest  several 
hours ;  then  dust  them  all  over  with  finely  powdered  quick- 
lime, tied  up  fh  a  thin  muslin  bag.  In  two  or  three  days,  wipe 
off  the  oil  and  lime ;  rub  them  with  a  buckskin  or  shammy 
leather;  wrap  them  first  in  green  baize,  and  then  an  outside 
covering  of  coarse  brown  paper,  and  put  them  away.  They 
should  always  be  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

Another  way  of  cleaning  knives  and  forks  is,  after  washing 
the  blades  in  warm  (but  not  hot)  water,  and  wiping  them  dry, 
to  rub  them  lightly  over  with  powdered  rotten-stone  wet  to  a 
paste  with  a  little  cold  water.  Let  it  dry  on ;  and  then  wipe 
it  off,  and  polish  them  with  a  clean  cloth.  It  is  said  they  will 
last  much  longer  if  cleaned  in  this  manner  than  in  the  usual 


216 


THE    HOrSE  BOOK. 


way  of  rubbing  them  on  a  board  with  brick-dust;  but  as  it  will 
not  keep  the  knives  sharp,  they  must  be  frequently  whetted  on 
a  knife  steel,  or  on  a  whetstone. 


TO  CLEAN  FIRE-IRONS._Mix  together  a  tea-sp,oonful 
of  oil  of  vitriol,  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet  oil,  and  half  a  pint 
of  spirits  of  turpentine :  put  them  into  a  bottle,  and  c  ork  it 
tightly.  When  you  want  to  use  it,  mix  this  liquid  with  suffi- 
cient finely-powdered  rotten-stone  to  make  a  soft  paste ;  and 
with  a  coarse  woollen  cloth  rub  it  on  your  shovel,  tongs,  poker, 
&c.,  or  on  the  bars  of  your  grate  if  you  wish  to  brighten  them. 
Having  rubbed  it  on  well,  wipe  it  off  with  a  soft  cloth  of  linen 
or  cotton,  and  then  polish  with  dry  rotten-stone  and  a  piece  of 
leather. 

Another  way  to  clean  fire-irons  is  to  rub  them  with  a  piece 
of  flannel  dipped  first  in  oil,  and  then  in  emery  powder  of  the 
quality  called  No.  3.  Rub  hard  and  quick,  and  then  polish 
with  a  leather  and  some  powdered  rotten-stone. 

You  can  get  emery  powder  at  the  iron  stores  or  at  the  paint 
stores.  The  coarse  is  best  for  some  purposes,  the  fine  for 
others. 


BLACKING  FOR  STOVES.— Take  half  a  pound  of 
black  lead  finely  powdered,  and  (to  make  it  stick)  mix  with  it 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten ;  then  dilute  it  with  sour 
beer  or  porter  till  it  becomes  about  as  thin  as  shoe-blacking. 
Having  stirred  it  well,  set  it  over  hot  coals,  and  let  it  simmer 
for  twenty  minutes.  When  cold,  pour  it  into  a  stone  jug,  cork 
it  tightly,  and  keep  it  for  use.  It  must  be  rubbed  on  the  stove 
with  a  soft  brush,  and  then  polished  offquickly  with  a  clean  hard 
brush,  as  you  would  a  boot.  It  should  be  put  on  when  the 
stove  is  cold,  first  removing  the  ashes,  and  then  wiping  off  all 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


217 


the  dust  with  a  cloth.  Till  it  is  quite  dry  do  not  sweep  the 
hearth  or  replenish  the  fire. 

You  may  buy  at  the  stores  where  stoves  and  grates  are  sold, 
or  at  the  paint-stores,  an  excellent  black  varnish  to  be  put  on 
with  a  large  bristle  brush  when  the  iron  is  cold.  No  dust  or 
ashes  must  be  allowed  to  get  to  it  till  the  varnish  is  perfectly 
dry ;  otherwise  you  will  have  to  do  it  all  over  again.  Wash 
the  brush  afterwards,  in  spirits  of  turpentine,  and  then  in 
warm  water. 


TO  PREVENT  FIRE  IRONS  FROM  RUSTING.— 
When  you  are  going  to  put  your  fire  irons  away  for  the  sum- 
mer^ have  ready  some  fresh  mutton  suet  melted ;  and  while 
hot,  smear  it  all  over  the  irons.  Next  dredge  or  sprinkle  them 
well  with  unslacked  lime,  powdered  and  tied  up  in  a  thin 
muslin  rag.  Then  wrap  them  tightly  all  over  in  thick  brown 
paper,  so  as  entirely  to  exclude  the  air,  securing  the  paper  with 
twine.  Keep  them  in  a  dry  place;  and  previous  to  again 
taking  them  into  use,  wipe  them  clean,  first  with  old  flarmel 
and  then  with  soft  rags. 


TO  TAKE  RUST  OUT  OF  STEEL.— Rub  the  steel 
well  with  a  piece  of  flannel  dipped  in  sweet  oil.  Then  cover 
it  with  slacked  lime,  put  it  into  a  dry  place,  and  let  it  rest  for 
two  days.  Afterwards  wipe  it  clean,  and  then  rub  on  some 
whiting  finely  powdered.  Finish  with  dry  whiting  and  a 
buckskin. 

Rust  may  also  be  removed  from  steel  by  rubbing  on  a  mix- 
ture of  sweet  oil  and  emery  laid  on  with  a  bristle  brush,  or 
with  a  bit  of  spongy  green  rod  split  fine  at  the  end.    Let  the 
steel  rest  in  the  emery  for  two  or  three  days,  then  wipe  it  off. 
19 


218 


THE    HOtJSE  BOOK. 


■  POLISHED  IRON. — Polished  iron  work  may  be  presierved 
from  rust  by  going  lightly  over  it  with  copal  varnish,  nnixed 
with  nearly  an  equal  quantity  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  aind  as 
much  sweet  oil  as  will  give  the  mixture  a  little  greasiiness. 
Lay  on  this  mixture  with  a  bristle  brush,  (which  must  after- 
wards be  washed  directly  in  warm  water,)  and  see  that  no  dust 
or  ashes  gets  to  it  while  drying.  The  varnish  may  be  obtained 
from  a  paint-shop  or  from  a  chair-maker's. 

TO  CLEAN  BRASS.— Dissolve  in  a  pint  of  soft  water  an 
ounce  of  oxalic  acid,  (which  is  poisonous  and  should  be  well 
taken  care  of,)  and  keep  it  in  a  bottle  labelled  "Poison." 
Always  shake  it  well  before  using  it.  Rub  it  on  the  brass  with 
a  flannel,  and  then  take  a  dry  flannel  to  polish  it.  Use  this 
solution  twice  a  week,  and  next  day  have  ready  some  pulve- 
rized rotten-stone,  sifted  through  a  muslin  rag,  and  mixed  with 
oil  of  turpentine,  so  as  to  be  liquid.  Rub  this  on  with  a  buck- 
skin, let  it  rest  ten  minutes,  and  then  wipe  it  off  with  a 
cloth. 

Brass  cleaned  in  this  manner  looks  beautifully. 

For  cleaning  brasses  belonging  to  mahogany  furniture,  either 
powdered  whiting  or  scraped  rotten-stone  mixed  with  sweet 
oil,  and  rubbed  on  with  a  buckskin,  is  excellent.  Let  it  rest  a 
little  while,  and  then  wipe  it  well  off,  seeing  that  none  of  the 
mixture  lodges  in  the  hollows  of  the  brass.  In  cleaning  brass 
handles,  hold  the  handle  firmly  with  one  hand,  while  you  clean 
with  the  other,  otherwise  the  handles  will  soon  become  loosened 
by  the  unsteadiness  of  the  friction.  Lay  underneath  an  old 
newspaper,  to  catch  the  droppings. 

Oxalic  acid  being  poisonous,  care  must  be  taken  that  none 
of  the  liquid  gets  into  the  eyes,  when  used  for  rubbing.  Should 
this  by  any  accident  happen,  immediately  get  a  bowl  full  to 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


219 


the  brim  of  cold  water,  and  hold  the  eyes  open  m  it,  till  the 
pain  abates ;  repeating  it  at  intervals  during  the  day. 

Holding  the  eyes  open  in  cold  water  will  frequently  relieve 
them  from  an  engine  spark,  or  a  mote,  or  particle  of  any  sub- 
stance that  has  flown  in  accidentally.  Eye-glasses  for  this 
purpose  are  to  be  obtained  at  the  apothecaries'. 

To  remove  the  stain  of  oxalic  acid  from  a  dress,  rub  the  spot 
with  a  sponge  dipped  in  hartshorn  diluted  with  a  little  water ; 
this  will  cause  it  almost  immediately  to  disappear. 

CLEANING  STAIR-RODS.— Pulverize  some  rotten-stone, 
and  when  the  powder  is  made  very  fine,  mix  it  with  sweet  oil. 
Then,  with  a  woollen  cloth,  rub  it  well  on  each  stair-rod. 
Polish  with  a  soft  buckskin,  on  which  must  be  rubbed  a  little 
dry  rotten-stone  finely  powdered.  Any  other  brass  may  be 
cleaned  to  advantage  in  this  manner. 


CLEANING  A  BRASS  KETTLE.— A  brass,  bell-metal, 
or  copper  kettle  should  always  be  cleaned  immediately  after 
using.  Even  when  not  used,  it  will  require  occasional  cleaning ; 
otherwise  it  will  collect  rust  or  verdigrease,  which  is  a  strong 
poison. 

To  clean  it  properly,  after  washing  it  out  with  a  cloth  and 
warm  water,  put  into  the  kettle  a  large  tea-cupful  of  vinegar, 
and  a  large  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  hang  it  over  the  fire.  Let 
it  get  quite  warm ;  and  then  take  it  off,  dip  in  a  clean  rag,  and 
wash  the  whole  inside  of  the  kettle  thoroughly  with  the  salt 
and  vinegar;  after  which,  wash  it  well  with  warm  water. 
Next,  take  wood-ashes  and  clean  rags,  and  scour  it  well. 
Afterwards,  wash  it  with  hot  soap-suds,  and  finish,  by  rinsing 
it  with  cold  water,  and  wiping  it  with  a  dry  cloth,  both  inside 
and  out. 


220 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


These  kettles  should  be  kept  always  clean,  that  they  may  be 
ready  for  use  at  any  time  they  are  wanted.  So  also  should 
every  vessel  of  brass  or  copper. 

PORCELAIN  OR  ENAMELLED  KETTLES  These 

kettles,  which  are  of  cast  iron,  lined  all  through  with  a  coating 
of  coarse  white  china,  have  now  (in  all  places  where  they  can 
be  procured)  superseded  the  use  of  bell-metal  and  brass  for 
preserving  and  pickling,  and  for  many  nice  purposes.  They 
are  more  easily  kept  clean  than  any  other  vessels  for  cooking, 
and  of  course  preclude  all  danger  of  rust  from  liquids  or  acids. 
Those  of  German  manufacture  are  the  best.  It  is  well  in  every 
kitchen,  to  have  several  of  these  excellent  utensils  of  different 
sizes,  from  a  large  preserving  kettle  down  to  a  small  saucepan. 
Great  care  must  be  taken,  not  to  have  a  fierce  blaze  under 
them,  or  round  them.  This,  however,  is  not  necessary  in  that 
sort  of  cooking  for  which  they  are  particularly  useful.  To 
guard  against  any  accidental  danger  of  the  porcelain  cracking 
by  too  hot  a  fire,  it  is  well  to  toughen  them  (as  the  cooks  call 
it)  as  soon  as  they  are  brought  home  from  the  shop.  For  this 
purpose,  first  wash  your  kettle  well  in  warm  water.  Then  fill 
it  with  equal  quantities  of  bran  and  cold  water,  set  it  over  a 
moderate  fire,  and  let  it  continue  on  it  half  an  hour  or  more  after 
the  mixture  has  come  to  a  boil.  Then  take  the  kettle  off  the  fire, 
and  let  it  stand  till  the  water  is  cold.  Throw  out  this  water, 
and  repeat  the  ptocess  with  fresh  bran ;  and  after  it  has  boiled 
sufficientiy,  take  it  off,  and  let  it  stand  till  next  day.  After 
which,  throw  out  the  bran,  and  wash  the  kettle  well  with  clear 
warm  water,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Always  after  using  the  kettle  for  preserving  or  pickling,  give 
it  a  boiling  with  wood-ashes  and  water,  and  then  wash  it  clean. 
It  is  said  that  any  articles  of  new  china  or  earthen  are 


/ 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


221 


rendered  less  liable  to  break,  if,  previous  to  using  them,  they 
are  boiled,  as  above,  in  bran- water,  which  is  considered  to 
strengthen  the  glazing. 

TEA-KETTLES. — A  tea-kettle  should  on  no  account  be 
used  for  any  other  purpose  than  for  boiling  water.  Some  cooks 
have  a  foolish  practice  of  always  boiling  their  potatoes  in  the ' 
tea-kettle.  Let  this  be  positively  forbidden,  as  it  will  give  a 
peculiar  and  disagreeable  taste  to  the  tea-water  that  is  boiled 
in  it  afterwards.  The  tea-kettle  should  be  washed  out  every 
day,  to  remove  the  sediment  deposited  in  it  by  the  water.  If 
this  is  neglected,  it  will  become  coated  on  the  inside  with*a 
sort  of  dirty  fur.  Once  a  fortnight,  at  least,  the  kettle  should 
be  thoroughly  cleaned,  by  scouring  it  first  with  sand  or  wood- 
ashes,  and  then  with  soap-suds ;  rinsing  it  off  with  cold  water, 
and  wiping  it  dry. 

In  boiling  a  kettle,  care  must  be  taken  to  put  on  the  lid 
closely,  so  as  not  to  leave  the  smallest  crevice.  If  the  lid  is  in 
the  least  brok  n  or  bent,  it  is  best  to  get  a  new  one;  otherwise 
the  water  is  liable  to  be  smoked  and  rendered  unfit  for  use, 
communicating  a  most  disagreeable  taste  to  the  tea. 

See  that  the  water  is  actually  boiling  hard  at  the  time  it  is 
poured  on  the  tea ;  otherwise  it  will  not  draw  out  the  strength, 
^d  the  tea  will  taste  weak  and  flat,  however  large  the  quantity 
put  into  the  pot,  which  also  should  be  previously  scalded  twice. 

We  do  not  recommend  copper  tea-kettles.  The  tin  lining 
soon  begins  to  wear  off;  and,  if  not  renewed  immediately,  the 
copper  will  render  the  water  extremely  unwholesome,  and  the 
tea  almost  poisonous.  To  set  on  a  chafing-dish  or  furnace, 
when  the  tea  is  made  in  the  parlour,  a  bright  block  tin  kettle 
will  look  sulRciently  well. 

If  you  use  an  urn,  the  heater  must  be  put  into  the  fire  about 
19* 


222 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  tea,  and  not  taken  out  till  it  is  red- 
hot.  Then  lift  it  with  the  tongs,  and  slip  it  into  the  cylinder ; 
the  urn  being  previously  filled  with  hot  water  from  a  boiling 
kettle.  The  inside  of  the  urn  (including  that  of  the  lid)  should 
be  washed  out  every  day,  and  the  outside  wiped  with  a  soft  cloth. 

TO  WASH  TEA-THINGS— For  this  purpose  have  a  large 
tin  or  earthen  pan,  with  warm  water,  and  a  clean,  thick,  soft 
towel,  a  yard  long ;  huckaback  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Put 
the  saucers  first  into  the  water,  wash  them  round  in  it,  and  then 
take  them  out,  one  by  one,  and  turn  them  up  to  drain  along  the 
side  of  the  japanned  waiter.  Do  the  same  with  the  cups. 
Then  wipe  them  all  very  dry. 

You  will  find  it  convenient  to  have  near  you,  all  the  time,  a 
hot  kettle,  for  the  purpose  of  replenishing  the  pan  with  clean 
warm  water  when  necessary :  and  you  may  probably  require 
two  towels. 

When  the  cream-jug  is  empty,  fill  it  with  hot  water,  and  let 
it  stand  till  you  have  done  the  cups ;  then  wash  it. 

Having  completely  emptied  the  tea-pot,  (and  saved  the  tea-, 
leaves  in  a  jar,  for  the  purpose  of  strewing  on  the  carpets  when 
about  to  sweep  them,)  fill  it  with  hot  water,  and  let  it  stand  a 
while ;  then  rinse  it  round,  pour  out  the  water,  and  wipe  the 
outside.  If  any  tea-leaves  are  allowed  to  remain  in  it,  they 
will  injure  the  taste  of  the  next  tea. 

If  the  tea-things  are  numerous,  you  will  require  clean  warm 
water  for  the  small  plates,  &c.  Be  careful  to  wash  every  article 
clean,  and  to  wipe  it  dry,  so  as  to  leave  no  stickiness. 

Before  throwing  out  the  dirty  water,  put  your  hand  down  to 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  to  feel  if  any  tea-spoons  are  remaining 
there.  Tea-spoons  are  often  lost  by  being  carelessly  thrown 
out  with  the  cup-water. 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


223 


In  washing  tea-things,  it  is  a  great  saving  of  the  hands  to 
use  a  little  cup-swab  or  mop,  such  as  are  made  by  the  sopiety 
of  Shakers,  and  are  to  be  obtained  wherever  their  wares  are 
sold.  Taking  one  of  these  by  the  handle  in  your  right  hand, 
and  dipping  the  woollen  or  thrum  end  into  the  water,  you  can 
wash  the  things  very  clean  while  holding  them  at  the  edge 
between  the  thumb  and  finger  of  your  left  hand. 

WASHING  PLATES  AND  DISHES,  &c.— Unless  there 
is  a  regular  boiler  kept  always  on  the  kitchen  fire,  the  cook 
should  hang  on  a  large  pot  of  clean  water  at  the  time  of  every 
meal,  as  soon  as  she  has  sent  in  the  dishes  for  the  table,  that 
it  may  be  hot  when  she  is  ready  to  wash  them.  Large  deep 
baskets,  lined  with  tin,  are  very  convenient  for  the  purpose  of 
receiving  the  dirty  plates  to  be  carried  into  the  kitchen.  Con- 
veyed in  this  manner,  they  are  much  less  liable  to  be  broken 
than  when  piled  on  a  tray  or  waiter :  particularly  if  they  are  to 
be  taken  down  stairs. 

For  dish-washing  there  should  be  two  tubs,  one  of  hot  water 
and  one  of  cold ;  also  two  large  cloths  and  a  thick  clean  towel. 
A  wooden  plate-rack,  to  stand  them  in,  separately,  while  drain- 
ing, is  a  great  convenience;  otherwise  they  are  generally 
drained  by  laying  them  bottom  upwards,  one  a  little  over  the 
other,  in  the  sink,  which  should  previously  be  washed  down, 
that  it  may  be  quite  clean  for  the  purpose.  Unless  the  dish- 
water is  very  hot,  the  grease  will  not  come  off  well,  and  the 
things  will  look  smeared  and  feel  sticky.  Put  the  plates  into 
the  tub  of  hot  water,  and  wash  them  first,  using  the  dish-cloth 
to  each,  and  putting  each  as  you  do  it  into  the  tub  of  cold  water 
to  rinse.  When  the  water  becomes  too  greasy,  pour  it  out  and 
replenish  with  fresh.  Before  you  wash  the  dishes  and  sauce- 
boats,  scrape  off  from  them  with  a  knife  all  the  thickest  of  the 


224 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


grease  into  a  deep  plate,  or  something  of  the  sort,  from  Ayhich 
you  can  transfer  it  afterwards  to  the  receptacle  for  the  soap-fat. 

While  rinsing  the  things  in  cold  water,  instead  of  your  bare 
hand  use  a  clean  cloth  that  is  quite  free  from  grease.  Then, 
having  drained  them  well,  wipe  them  dry  with  a  clean  thick 
towel,  and  place  them  on  the  dresser. 

Previous  to  washing  the  dishes,  scrape  off  with  a  knife  what- 
ever may  adhere  to  the  inside  of  the  pots,  pans,  roasters,  &c., 
that  have  been  used  in  cooking  the  dinner ;  and  then  pour  hot 
water  into  all  these  utensils,  letting  them  stand  to  soak  while 
you  are  doing  the  other  things.  Afterwards,  wash  them  out 
well  with  fresh  hot  water  and  the  dish-cloth ;  rinse  them  with 
cold  water,  and  wipe  the  inside  perfectly  dry  with  a  clean  towel, 
which,  if  they  have  been  properly  done,  will  not  be  soiled  during 
the  process.  The  outside  of  each  should  also  be  washed  and 
wiped.  The  bars  of  the  gridiron  should  first  be  well  scraped, 
then  wiped  with  a  dish-cloth  dipped  in  hot  water ;  afterwards 
with  cold  water,  and  then  wiped  dry. 


PURIFYING  SLOP-BUCKETS,  JARS,  &c  ^To  remove 

any  peculiar  or  unpleasant  smell  from  slop-buckets,  jars,  or 
other  utensils,  scald  them  with  strong  hot  lye,  filling  them  up 
to  the  top,  and  letting  the  lye  remain  in  the  vessel  till  cold. 
Repeat  the  scalding  with  lye,  if  necessary.  Then  fill  them  up 
with  cold  water,  let  them  stand  all  day  in  the  open  air,  and 
then  wash  them  clean  and  wipe  them  dry. 

Or  you  may  put  the  vessel  half  full  of  wood-ashes,  and  fill 
it  up  with  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  till  cold ;  then  throw 
out  the  ashes,  and  repeat  the  process  with  fresh  ashes  and  hot 
water,  washing  it  clean  afterwards. 

After  this  process,  if  the  vessel  is  of  stone-ware,  earthen,  or 
<?hina,  turn  it  on  its  side  and  expose  it  a  while  to  the  hot  sun. 


FURNITURE,  ETC. 


225 


If  it  is  of  wood  or  tin,  fill  it  with  cold  water,  and  stand  it  all 
day  in  the  air. 

The  best  and  most  durable  buckets  are  those  of  tin,  painted 
white  on  the  inside,  and  green  (or  any  other  colour)  outside. 
All  tin  buckets  should  have  covers. 


TO  REMOVE  THE  TASTE  OF  ROSIN  FROM  NEW 
TIN. — ^Take  a  hot  live  coal  from  a  wood  fire,  or  a  piece  of 
burning  charcoal.  Put  the  coal  into  the  tin  vessel,  and  shake 
it  about  a  while.  Repeat  this,  (if  necessary,)  with  a  fresh  coal 
each  time.    Then  wash  out  the  vessel  with  warm  water. 

Or  boil  in  the  tin  some  pot-ash  melted  in  water.  Afterwards 
wash  out  the  vessel,  and  boil  plain  water  in  it. 


TO  REMOVE  THE  TASTE  OF  NEW  WOOD.— A  new 
keg,  churn,  bucket,  or  other  wooden  vessel  will  generally  com- 
municate a  disagreeable  taste  to  any  thing  that  is  put  into  it, 
particularly  if  of  cedar.  To  prevent  this  inconvenience,  first 
scald  the  vessel  well  with  boiling  water,  letting  the  water 
remain  in  it  till  cold.  Then  dissolve  some  pearl-ash  or  pot-ash 
in  luke-warm  water,  adding  a  little  bit  of  lime  to  it,  and  wash 
the  inside  of  the  vessel  well  with  this  solution.  Repeat  it,  if 
necessary.  Afterwards  scald  it  well  with  plain  hot  water,  and 
rinse  it  with  cold  before  you  use  it. 

If  you  cannot  conveniently  obtain  pot-ash  or  pearl-ash,  you 
may  season  a  new  wooden  vessel  by  scalding  it  repeatedly 
with  hot  lye,  and  afterwards  with  boiling  water;  but  this 
method,  though  frequently  successful,  is  less  certain  than  the 
former. 

Utensils  of  oak  are  far  preferable  to  those  of  cedar. 
Wooden  vessels  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand  out  of 
doors,  unless  they  are  full.    If  empty,  the  sun  and  air  will 


226 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


shrink  the  staves,  open  the  seams,  and  loosen  the  hoops  and 
bottoms,  so  that  they  will  leak  when  used. 


TO  SWEETEN  AN  OLD  CASK.— Having  first  scalded 
it  well  with  boiling  water,  (letting  the  water  stand  in  it  till 
cold,)  fill  it  with  cold  water,  and  throw  in  a  large  quantity  of 
live  coals  from  a  wood  fire,  leaving  the  cask  uncovered.  By 
repeating  this,  the  cask  may  be  made  perfectly  sweet,  provided 
that  it  has  at  no  time  contained  fish.  A  fish-barrel  can  never 
be  used  for  any  other  purpose,  as  it  is  impossible  to  expel  the 
taste  and  smell  of  the  fish. 

Scalding  an  old  cask  repeatedly  in  strong  lye,  and  then  with 
clear  water,  will  generally  sweeten  it.  So  will  boiling  water 
in  which  pot-ash  and  lime  have  been  dissolved. 

Second-hand  casks  or  kegs  can  frequently  be  purchased  at  a 
grocery  or  liquor  store ;  and  if  they  have  contained  nothing 
that  can  give  them  a  disagreeable  taste,  and  are  tight  and  in 
good  order,  they  are  preferable,  for  many  purposes,  to  those  that 
are  new. 

Another  way  to  sweeten  a  cask,  is  to  melt  some  brim- 
stone, and  dip  into  it  a  piece  of  coarse  linen  cloth.  When 
cold,  take  a  slip  of  the  brimstone  cloth  about  an  inch  broad, 
and  five  or  six  inches  long,  and  having  set  fire  to  one  end,  put 
it  in  at  the  bung-hole ;  fastening  the  other  end  under  the  bung, 
which  must  be  driven  in  tight.  The  head  of  the  cask  must  be 
on,  that  all  the  vapour  of  the  sulphur  may  continue  inside. 
Let  it  remain  a  few  hours — then  open  the  cask,  and  expose  it 
to  the  air. 


227 


THE  KITCHEN. 


REMARKS. 

As  it  is  a  self-evident  truth  that  much  of  the  comfort  of  a 
family  depends  on  the  kitchen,  it  is  of  great  importance  that 
the  kitchen  itself  should  be  comfortable,  and  well  supplied 
with  every  thing  that  is  necessary  for  enabling  the  domestics 
to  perform  their  work  properly  and  expeditiously.  Few  good 
servants  (cooks  particularly)  are  satisfied  to  remain  long  in  a 
place  where  they  are  denied  these  advantages.  There  are 
unfortunately  too  many  houses  where  (while  much  expense  is 
lavished  on  the  drawing-rooms  or  parlours)  the  kitchen  is  bare 
and  comfortless  in  its  aspect,  and  scantily  supplied  with  the 
utensils  indispensable  to  the  efficient  execution  of  its  business. 

At  the  same  time,  a  good  housekeeper  will  endeavour  to 
impress  on  her  domestics  the  necessity  of  taking  care  of  all  the 
articles  provided  for  the  convenient  performance  of  their  work, 
by  keeping  them  clean,  unbroken,  and  in  their  respective  places. 
Unless  she  is  blest  with  excellent  servants,  she  will  find 
herself  unable  to  depend  upon  them,  in  this  or  in  any  other  part 
of  their  duty,  without  frequent  personal  inspection  from  herself. 
Few  houses  can  go  on  well  unless  the  mistress  or  her  repre- 
sentative visits  the  kitchen  at  least  once  every  day,  and  that 
not  always  at  the  same  hour. 

In  Philadelphia,  the  largest  assortment  of  household  articles 
is  to  be  found  at  the  extensive  stores  of  Gideon  Cox,  Nos.  335 
and  337  on  the  north  side  of  Market  street,  just  below  Ninth. 
To  ladies  preparing  for  housekeeping,  we  particularly  recom- 
mend a  visit  to  this  large  and  well-arranged  establishment, 


228 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


where  they  will  be  able  to  supply  themselves  at  once  with  all 
the  utensils  necessary  for  doing  the  work  of  a  family,  in  its 
various  departments ;  and  with  many  things  of  whose  existence 
they  were  not  perhaps  previously  aware,  but  whose  utility  and 
convenience  they  will  immediately  perceive. 


KITCHEN  FURNITURE.— In  furnishing  a  kitchen,  we 
do  not  recommend  that  the  floor  be  covered  with  a  woollen 
carpet,  whether  woven  of  yam  or  of  strips  of  cloth.  The  grease 
that  such  a  carpet  cannot  fail  to  imbibe  in  a  place  where  cook- 
ing is  done,  is  seldom  attended  to  immediately,  and  perhaps 
not  at  all :  and  its  stickiness  collects  and  retains  the  dust.  The 
consequence  is,  that  the  carpet  (besides  looking  very  dirty), 
soon  acquires  a  disgusting  and  unwholesome  smell,  which 
pervades  the  atmosphere  of  the  whole  apartment.  As  it  is  far 
more  difficult  to  sweep  than  a  smooth  floor,  it  is  in  all  probabi- 
lity neither  swept  so  often  nor  so  thoroughly  as  cleanliness 
requires ;  and  (produced  by  its  heat,  grease,  and  dirt)  cock- 
roaches not  unfrequently  accumulate  round  the  edges  and 
comers  of  a  kitchen  carpet.  Also,  all  kitchen  floors  should  be 
washed  at  least  once  a  week  in  winter,  and  twice  a  week  in 
summer.  The  best  covering  for  a  kitchen  (as  we  have  said 
before)  is  a  coarse,  thick,  unfigured  oil-cloth,  painted  all  over 
of  one  colour,  (for  instance,  dark  red,  blue,  or  brown,)  and  made 
to  fit  exactly.  This  is  a  carpet  that  has  the  advantages  of  being 
cool  in  summer  and  warm  and  dry  in  winter ;  as  it  effectually 
covers  the  cracks  of  the  floor,  and  excludes  all  dampness :  and 
it  requires  no  scrubbing ;  nothing  more  being  necessary  than 
to  wash  it  off  with  cold  water  and  a  cloth.  As  a  substitute  for 
an  oil-cloth,  the  floor  may  be  painted  all  over  with  several  coats 
of  common  paint ;  yellow  ochre  being  the  cheapest,  but  slate- 
colour  the  best.   If  the  floor  is  used  too  soon  after  painting,  the 


KITCHEN  FURNITURE. 


229 


paint  (not  being  sufficiently  hardened  and  incorporated  with  the 
surface  of  the  wood)  will  rub  or  scale  off.  It  is  also  well  to 
paint  the  kitchen  stairs  and  passage.  We  do  not  advise  oil- 
cloth for  any  stair-case,  as  its  being  somewhat  slippery  may 
cause  persons  to  fall  down,  and  not  only  hurt  themselves,  but 
break  what  they  are  carrying.  On  a  level  surface,  however, 
there  is  no  danger  of  slipping  on  an  oil-cloth. 

There  should  be  a  large  kitchen  table,  chiefly  for  the  use  of 
the  cook ;  and  a  smaller  one  for  the  domestics  to  sit  round  of 
an  evening.  If  you  have  an  ironing-board  in  the  kitchen,  it  is 
best  to  have  it  fastened  against  the  wall,  (under  the  windows,) 
to  be  raised  and  let  down  with  hinges,  and,  when  wanted  for 
use,  supported  by  bracket-legs  that  can  be  drawn  out  from 
underneath.  These  are  very  convenient ;  as,  when  not  in  use, 
they  occupy  little  or  no  space.  We  have  seen  excellent 
kitchen  settles,  large  enough  to  seat  four  persons,  and  having 
the  appearance  of  a  high-backed  settee.  The  back  can,  when 
necessary,  be  extended  outwards,  so  as  to  form  an  ironing-table ; 
and  under  the  seat  are  drawers  to  contain  the  ironing-blanket,  &c. 

If  you  have  your  ironing  done  in  the  kitchen,  it  will  be  well 
on  ironing  days  (particularly  in  winter,  when  the  sashes  are 
closed)  to  avoid  having  any  thing  cooked  that  causes  a  power- 
ful smell.  Also,  to  have  no  coffee  roasted  or  batter  cakes  baked 
on  that  morning.  The  clean  clothes  will  become  so  saturated 
with  the  odour  of  these  things,  that  they  will  retain  it  even  after 
being  put  away  in  the.  drawers.  A  boiled  dinner  is  every  way 
most  convenient  for  ironing  days. 

There  should  be,  in  a  well  furnished  kitchen,  half  a  dozen 
common  chairs,  two  low  ones,  and  two  or  three  wooden  stools 
or  crickets.  A  cheap  rocking-chair  would  no  doubt  be  consi- 
dered a  great  comfort  for  the  cook  to  rest  in,  after  she  has  done 
her  work. 

20 


230 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


A  cheap  and  convenient  kitchen  foot-stool  may  be  made,  by 
laying  together  four  bricks,  (two  at  the  bottom,  and  two  at  the 
top,)  and  keeping  them  firm,  by  fastening  tightly  round  them 
some  strong  tape  or  listing.  Then  cover  the  whole  block  of 
bricks,  by  sewing  on  it  some  coarse  tow  linen,  and  afterwards 
put  on  the  top  a  thicker  layer  of  shavings,  straw,  or  southern 
moss,  pressed  down  hard,  like  the  stuffing  of  a  pincushion. 
Then  sew  over  the  whole  an  outer  covering  of  coarse  carpeting. 
When  completed,  it  will  be  a  substantial  and  useful  footstool, 
not  easily  overset. 

We  do  not  recommend  a  looking-glass,  as  it  is  a  temptation 
for  the  domestics  to  comb  or  arrange  their  hair  in  the  kitchen. 
In  houses  where  there  is  a  kitchen  looking-glass,  hairs  are  fre- 
quently found  in  the  dishes  that  come  to  table.  All  the  comb- 
ing and  dressing  of  the  servants  ought  to  be  done  in  their  own 
sleeping-rooms ;  and  it  is  best  to  give  them  no  facilities  of  per- 
forming this  business  in  any  other  part  of  the  house. 

Listing  the  kitchen  doors  will  produce  much  increase  of 
comfort  in  winter. 

A  kitchen  with  white-washed  walls  will  look  far  more  clean 
and  light  than  if  coloured  with  yellow-ochre.  The  windows 
(if  in  a  cellar  kitchen)  should  be  secured  on  the  outside  with 
wire  nettings,  to  prevent  the  entrance  of  rats  from  without. 
If  the  kitchen  is  built  back  of  the  house,  it  is  well  to  have 
window-blinds  of  common  muslin  or  green  stuff,  to  prevent 
curious  persons  from  looking  in.  On  the  inside  of  the  door 
have,  for  general  use,  a  wooden  roller,  with  a  coarse  towel  of 
crash  or  tow  linen  about  three  yards  long,  and  sewed  together 
at  the  ends.  The  roller  should  be  taken  down  every  morning, 
and  replenished  with  a  clean  towel. 

On  a  broad  bench  near  the  sink,  keep  one  or  two  block  tin 
basins,  and  a  little  tin  soap-cup,  to  be  convenient  for  washing 


KITCHEN  FURNITURE. 


33t 


hands;  a  common-sized  coarse  towel  hanging  on  a  peg 
above. 

Let  the  sink  be  kept  extremely  clean ;  and  care  should  be 
taken  that  nothing  goes  down  it  that  may  cause  any  stoppage. 
Over  it  have  nails  on  which  to  hang  the  dish-cloths,  &c.  All 
water  in  which  vegetables  have  been  washed  or  boiled,  should 
be  thrown  out  at  once ;  as,  if  allowed  to  stand,  it  will  soon  smell 
disagreeably ;  cabbage  in  particular. 

It  is  well  to  keep  a  large  boiler  always  on  the  kitchen  fire, 
for  the  convenience  of  having  hot  water  whenever  it  may  be 
wanted.  It  should  be  furnished  with  a  close  cover,  and  with 
a  cock  for  drawing  off  the  water.  This  boiler  should  be  used 
for  water  only,  kept  very  clean,  and  washed  and  wiped  out 
every  morning.  When  water  is  taken  out  for  use,  let  the  boiler 
be  replenished  with  more,  so  as  to  keep  it  always  well  filled. 

A  hearth-brush  (to  hang  on  a  nail  convenient  to  the  fire-place) 
should  be  allowed  in  every  kitchen.  Independent  of  its  slo- 
venly and  uncomfortable  appearance,  a  littered,  ashy  hearth  will 
communicate  a  portion  of  its  dirt  and  ashes  to  whatever  is 
placed  upon  it.  Nevertheless,  the  hearth  should  noi  be  swept 
when  any  uncovered  cooking  utensils  are  standing  there. 

Neither  should  the  kitchen  floor  be  swept  while  dinner  is 
preparing ;  or,  in  short,  when  any  eatables  are  about  it.  The 
best  time  for  sweeping  and  dusting  the  kitchen  is  early  in  the 
morning,  immediately  after  the  fire  has  been  made ;  (that,  of 
course,  being  always  the  first  thing  done,  as  soon  as  the  win- 
dows are  opened;)  but  if  the  breakfast  hour  is  very  early,  the 
kitchen  sweeping,  &c.,  may  be  deferred  till  after  the  breakfast 
utensils  are  washed  and  put  away ;  and  it  should  be  brushed 
up  again  in  the  afternoon,  when  the  dish-washing  is  completed. 

Do  not  clean  candlesticks  while  the  breakfast  is  about  the 
fire,  lest  some  of  the  grease  should  fall  into  the  dishes. 


232 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


If  you  burn  wood,  you  must  have  a  bellows  for  the  kitchen. 

The  duties  of  the  domestics  (particularly  those  of  the  cook) 
cannot  be  regularly  performed  without  a  kitchen  clock.  It  is 
v^ell,  before  you  make  a  final  purchase  of  such  an  article,  to 
take  it  a  month  on  trial ;  for  if  it  does  not  keep  time  correctly, 
and  if  it  is  continually  getting  out  of  order,  it  will  not  be  worth 
having,  and  cannot  but  prove  a  dear  bargain,  however  low  the 
original  cost.  Of  wooden  clocks,  many  are  excellent ;  others 
are  complete  frauds.  In  some  families  they  have  a  kitchen 
watch.  A  clock  is  better ;  for  a  watch  is  liable  to  accidents 
from  falling :  is  frequently  broken  or  put  out  of  order  by  the 
meddling  of  servant  boys,  (if  you  have  such ;)  and  also  it  can 
be  stolen  and  carried  away  very  conveniently. 

We  know  an  instance  of  a  wooden  clock,  made  in  Connecti- 
cut, that  seemed  to  go  very  well,  except  that  it  always  stopped 
in  nine  hours  after  being  wound  up.  On  examination  by  the 
gentleman  who  had  purchased  it  for  his  kitchen,  it  was  found 
that  a  piece  of  shaving  had  accidentally  lodged  behind  one  of 
the  wheels,  probably  in  putting  the  clock  together  when  finished. 
The  shaving  was  removed,  and  the  clock  turned  out  an  excel- 
lent one. 

A  marble  table  for  making  paste  soon  defrays  its  cost  by 
what  it  saves  in  the  expense  of  obtaining  pastry  from  the  con- 
fectioner's. Paste  that  is  tough  and  heavy  is  unfit  to  be  eaten  ; 
and  without  a  marble  table,  or  some  extraordinary  conveniences 
for  coolness,  it  is  difficult  to  make  it  light  in  warm  weather. 
Also,  whenever  butter  is  made,  a  marble  table  is  of  great 
advantage  for  working,  pressing,  and  dividing  it  after  it  comes 
from  the  chum.  The  cost  of  a  new  kitchen  table  with  a  marble 
top,  is  from  twelve  to  fifteen  dollars  in  Philadelphia.  An  old 
marble  hearth,  that  has  been  taken  up  to  be  replaced  by  a 
new  one,  will  make  a  very  good  top  for  a  pastry  table. 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


233 


Where  the  extent  of  the  house  will  allow  it,  there  is  great 
advantage  in  having  a  room  in  the  lower  part  fitted  up  purposely 
for  making  pastry,  cakes,  sweetmeats,  and  other  nice  articles 
of  like  description. 

A  marble  mortar  is  the  best  for  all  purposes  connected  with 
cooking ;  being  cool,  lasting,  easily  kept  clean,  and  incapable 
of  imbibing  any  part  of  the  substances  pounded  in  it.  The 
next  best  is  a  mortar  of  lignum  vitae,  a  wood  that  is  very  hard 
and  durable.  Mortars  of  white  earthen  composition-ware  are 
easily  broken,  and  only  fit  for  little  things  that  are  to  be  rubbed 
with  the  pestle  rather  than  pounded.  The  common  wooden 
mortars  absorb  much  of  the  things  that  are  pulverized  in  them, 
and  are  apt  to  communicate  the  taste  of  one  article  to  another. 
Iron  mortars  lined  with  tin  are  cheap  and  very  good.  As  soon 
fis  the  tinning  of  the  inside  begins  to  wear  off,  it  must  imme- 
diately be  renewed  at  a  tinner's ;  otherwise  every  thing  pounded 
in  the  mortar  will  turn  black. 


KITCHEN  CROCKERY— Brown  earthen  pans,  both  deep 
and  shallow,  and  of  different  sizes,  are  articles  of  essential  use 
*  in  all  kitchens.  Eggs  should  always  be  beaten  in  a  shallow 
earthen  pan,  and  butter  and  sugar  in  a  deep  one.  Tin  pans  are 
inconvenient  for  these  purposes,  as  the  coldness  of  the  metal 
prevents  the  things,  from  becoming  light.  You  will  want  large, 
tall  earthen  crocks  for  holding  various  articles  of  provision ; 
each  crock  should  have  a  cover :  also  coarse  brown  jugs,  bowls, 
and  dishes,  to  save  better  ones.  Of  white  crockery,  or  common 
queensware,  you  will  require  plates,  dishes,  and  pitchers  for 
the  use  of  the  kitchen ;  and  probably  pudding  moulds  and 
blanc-mange  moulds :  also  cups,  saucers,  salt-cellar,  pepper- 
box, &c.,  for  the  table  of  the  domestics,  and  a  few  common 
glass  tumblers. 

•30* 


234 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


Stone-ware  also  will  be  wanted  for  many  purposes.  It  is 
exceedingly  strong,  and  there  are  few  things  that  do  not  keep 
well  in  it.  It  is  best,  in  buying  stone  jars,  pots,  and  boxes,  to 
get  those  that  have  handles  and  lids ;  covers  of  the  same  ware 
being  far  better  than  corks.  In  consequence  of  the  thickness 
of  the  ware,  cold  water  will  keep  cool  longer,  and  hot  water 
will  keep  warm  longer,  in  a  stone  jug  than  in  any  other  vessel. 
Its  coolness  may  be  increased  in  summer  by  vvTapping  round 
it  a  thick  wet  cloth,  fastened  securely. 

IRON  WARE. — For  an  open  fire-place  you  must  have  a 
crane  and  pot-hooks ;  and  you  will  require  a  nest  of  pots  of 
diflFerent  sizes,  and  a  long  iron  fork  to  lift  things  out  of  them ; 
large  and  small  gridirons;  a  frying-pan;  one  or  two  Dutch 
ovens,  or  iron  bake-pans,  as  they  are  sometimes  called;  trivets; 
a  skillet,  or  what  is  termed  a  spider,  standing  on  legs ;  a 
waffle-iron;  two  griddles,  if  your  family  is  large,  as  warm 
cakes  come  in  but  very  slowly  when  there  is  but  one  griddle  to 
bake  them  on ;  square  iron  baking-pans,  for  bread  and  other 
purposes;  ladles;  a  perforated  skimmer;  iron  skewers;  a 
toasting-iron  to  set  before  the  fire;  a  coiFee-roaster ;  a  large 
tea-kettle,  (which  should  be  well  tinned  inside,)  with  a  falling 
handle,  that,  if  necessary,  it  may  be  boiled  in  a  stove.  Kettles 
for  preserving  and  pickling  should  be  of  iron,  lined  with  porce- 
lain, or  enamel,  as  it  is  sometimes  called :  those  of  brass  or 
bell-metal  ought  never  to  be  used  for  this  purpose,  as  the  action 
of  acids  on  them  is  poisonous,  and  has  produced  the  most  dele- 
terious and  even  fatal  eff'ects.  Indeed,  utensils  lined  with 
porcelain  may  be  used  to  great  advantage  in  every  sort  of 
stewing  or  boiling.  Those  of  German  manufacture  are  the 
best.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  too  fierce  a  fire  in  using 
porcelain-lined  vessels,  or  the  lining  will  crack  and  scale  off ; 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


235 


but  with  proper  attention  they  will  last  many  years,  and  are 
more  wholesome  and  more  easily  kept  clean  than  any  other 
cooking  utensils.  It  is  well  to  have  small  skillets  and  sauce- 
pans of  porcelain.  There  are  also  large  kettles  of  this  descrip- 
tion for  boiling  hams,  and  others  for  fish. 

If  copper  vessels  are  used  in  a  kitchen,  they  should  be  well 
tinned  on  the  inside ;  and  they  will  require  new  tinning  at  least 
once  a  year,  or  still  more  frequently  if  the  tin  appears  to  be  in 
the  least  wearing  off. 

Portable  furnaces  (to  be  heated  with  charcoal)  are  better  of 
iron  than  of  clay,  as  they  will  last  always,  and  are  not  liable 
to  crack  or  get  out  of  order.  With  these  you  may  stew  and 
boil,  and  make  sweetmeats  out  in  the  yard.  If  used  in  the 
kitchen,  a  door  or  window  must  be  kept  open  all  the  time,  or 
the  vapour  of  the  charcoal  will  be  suffocating. 

Coffee-mills  that  are  made  to  fasten  against  the  wall  are  far 
more  convenient  than  those  that  must  be  held  on  the  lap. 
There  should  be  a  mill  purposely  for  grinding  spices,  &c. ;  as, 
if  the  same  mill  is  used  for  both,  the  coffee  will  taste  of  spice 
and  the  spice  of  coflFee.  Spice  should  be  ground  a  little  at  a 
time,  accordingly  as  it  is  wanted.  It  is  well  to  have  a  pepper- 
mill  also. 

You  will  want  some  strong,  stout  knives  and  forks ;  a  kitchen 
cleaver  for  cutting  through  the  bone  of  meat ;  a  chopper  for 
mincing ;  a  steel  for  sharpening  knives ;  besides  a  whetstone, 
and  a  claw-hammer  for  driving  and  extracting  nails.  A  box 
containing  nails  of  different  sizes,  and  a  ball  of  twine,  should 
be  provided  for  every  kitchen.  A  pair  of  sugar-nippers  are 
indispensable,  for  breaking  small  the  loaf-sugar,  after  it  has 
been  cracked  with  a  stout  knife  and  a  mallet  or  hammer.  It 
should  then  be  kept  in  a  closely  covered  tin  or  wooden  box. 
There  should.be  a  box  also  for  brown  sugar. 


236 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Iron  spoons  for  the  kitchen  are  much  better  than  those  of 
pewter,  as  they  neither  bend  nor  break.  Strips  of  leather,  nailed 
along  the  edge  of  the  dresser-shelves,  are  very  convenient  recep- 
tacles for  spoons  or  similar  articles  that  are  in  constant  use. 


TIN  WARE. — Of  tins  for  preparing  cookery  you  may  have 
deep  round  pans  of  different  sizes ;  large  and  small  patty-pans 
for  shells  or  empty  paste ;  pie-dishes  of  block  tin  with  broad 
rims ;  (the  pastry  to  be  removed  from  these  dishes  when  cool,  and 
transferred  to  china ;)  cake-pans,  some  square  and  shallow,  and 
some  round  and  deep.  For  large  thick  cakes  it  is  best  to  get 
pans  with  straight  or  perpendicular  sides,  as  those  that  slant 
inward  (narrowing  towards  the  bottom)  are  very  inconvenient 
for  a  cake  that  is  to  be  iced.  Also,  large  cake-pans  are  best 
with  a  hollow  tube  in  the  centre,  to  admit  the  heat  into  the 
middle  of  the  cake,  that  it  may  bake  evenly  all  through.  Have 
likewise  two  or  three  dozen  small  round  or  oval  tins,  for  little 
cakes ;  also  a  dozen  muffin  rings.  You  will  want  a  covered 
tin  vessel  for  keeping  lard ;  a  butter-kettle,  and  a  similar  tin 
kettle  for  berries  or  small  fruit;  a  small  block  tin  tea-kettle  for 
small  purposes,  and  a  little  block  tin  sauce-pan.  A  double 
block  tin  kettle,  for  stewing  with  all  the  water  outside,  is  a 
useful  contrivance.  It  consists  simply  of  an  inner  kettle,  about 
three  or  four  inches  each  way  smaller  and  less  deep  than  the 
outer  one,  inside  of  which  it  is  suspended  by  means  of  two 
small  iron  rings  just  below  the  rim  of  the  smallest  kettle,  and 
tied  with  twine  to  two  corresponding  rings  placed  on  the  inside 
of  the  large  kettle,  about  two  or  three  inches  below  the  top. 
Both  kettles  have  close  lids,  and  falling  handles  over  them. 
They  are  excellent  for  boiling  puddings  or  custards ;  stewing 
apples  and  other  fruit ;  making  beef  tea,  &c. ;  and  are  on  the 
same  principle  as  the  utensil  called  a  Bain  Marie,  so  much 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


237 


employed  in  French  cooking.  The  inner  and  outer  kettles  may 
be  used  separately. 

For  roasting,  there  is  nothing  better  than  what  is  commonly 
but  absurdly  called  a  tin  kitchen.  It  may  be  well  to  have  two 
of  them,  one  large,  and  one  small. 

You  will  want  a  cullender ;  a  fish-kettle ;  an  egg-boiler ;  an 
egg-slice;  a  pepper-box;  a  dredging-box;  large  and  small 
graters.  For  spice-boxes,  it  is  best  to  keep  the  different  sorts 
of  spice  in  small,  separate,  painted  tin  boxes,  each  with  a  tight 
fitting  lid,  and  a  handle  to  hang  it  by,  to  nails  driven  along  the 
edge  of  a  dresser-shelf ;  each  box  to  have  the  name  of  the  spice 
(as  cinnamon,  mace,  nutmegs,  cloves)  painted  on  the  side. 
These  will  be  found  more  convenient  than  the  large  spice  boxes, 
in  which,  notwithstanding  the  divisions,  the  spices  are  very 
apt  to  get  mixed.  Do  not  buy  your  spice  ready  ground, 
as  when  powdered,  it  loses  its  strength  by  keeping.  You 
should  by  all  means  have  a  tin  apple-corer ;  a  most  useful  little 
instrument,  to  be  struck  into  the  stem  end  or  top  of  the  apple, 
and  turned  round  and  round  like  a  cork-screw ;  it  will,  in  one 
minute,  thrust  out  the  core  through  the  bottom,  as  smoothly 
and  nicely  as  possible.  A  tin  apple-roaster,  to  set  before  the 
fire,  is  also  a  useful  thing. 

You  will  want  a  tin  vessel,  large  enough  to  contain  three  or 
four  gallons  of  lamp  oil,  and  also  large  and  small  oil-cans  for 
daily  use ;  a  lantern ;  broad-bottomed  kitchen  candlesticks  or 
lamps  ;  a  candle-box ;  a  large  and  a  small  funnel  for  pouring 
liquids ;  a  sugar  scoop,  if  you  keep  sugar  in  a  barrel ;  and  a 
flour  scoop,  for  the  flour  barrel.  A  set  of  tin  mugs,  (with  lips 
or  spouts,)  to  be  used  as  measures,  will  be  found  very  conve- 
nient; they  may  be  six  in  number;  a  gallon;  a  two  quart 
measure;  one  quart;  a  pint;  half  a  pint;  a  jill;  and  half  a 
jill.   Have  also  a  pair  of  scales  with  a  set  of  weights.   It  ib 


233 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


well  to  have  the  scales  permanently  hung  to  a  small  projecting 
bar  or  beam  fixed  in  a  convenient  place ;  for  iastance,  at  the 
end  of  the  kitchen  dresser,  or  on  one  of  the  store-closet  shelves ; 
othervrise  there  will  be  much  trouble,  from  the  chains  of  the 
scales  becoming  twisted  or  unlinked,  by  frequently  lifting  them 
in  and  out  of  the  scale-box.  Without  measures  and  scales, 
there  can  be  little  or  no  accuracy  in  the  nicer  branches  of 
cookery ;  particularly  in  making  pastry,  cakes,  or  sweetmeats. 

Tin  buckets,  painted  outside,  are  far  better  and  more  lasting 
than  those  of  wood.  There  should  be  a  tin  dipper  or  ladle  for 
the  water. 

.  Kitchen  candlesticks  or  lamps  are  best  of  strong  block  tin, 
and  should  have  broad  bottoms. 


WOODEN  WARE.— Of  this,  you  will  want  tubs;  buckets; 
large  bowls  or  wooden  pans  for  flour ;  sieves,  large  and  small ; 
a  beetle  for  mashing  potatoes,  turnips,  &c. ;  a  meat  beetle, 
for  pounding  steaks  and  chops  to  make  them  tender;  two 
hickory  egg-beaters,  large  and  small;  a  spaddle  or  round  short 
hickory  stick,  flattened  at  one  end,  for  stirring  butter  and  sugar ; 
a  paste-board,  for  making  pies ;  a  cofFee-stick ;  a  mush-stick ; 
a  clothes-stick ;  and  wooden  spoons  and  ladles. 

If  you  make  bread  for  a  large  family,  a  kneading  trough 
will  be  of  essential  convenience ;  and  when  not  otherwise  in 
use,  it  can  form  a  table,  by  covering  it  with  the  lid. 

Flour  buckets  with  lids  are  excellent  for  holding  sifted  flour. 
Every  sort  of  meal  would  keep  better,  if  removed  at  once  from 
the  barrel,  (where  it  is  always  tightly  packed,)  sifted  through 
a  sieve,  and  distributed  in  covered  buckets.  This  is  a  very 
common  practice  in  the  southern  states,  where  the  warmth  of 
the  climate  frequently  causes  flour  to  spoil  when  this  precau- 
tion is  omitted.    If  you  do  keep  your  flour  in  a  barrel,  let  it  be 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


239 


constantly  covered  with  a  tight  lid.  Suet  can  be  kept  perfectly- 
good  for  a  week,  by  burying  it  in  the  flour  barrel. 

Your  salt-boxes  and  sugar-boxes  should  be  of  wood  with 
close  covers. 

A  large  close-covered  wooden  box  is  very  convenient  for 
softening  sweet  cake  that  is  not  quite  fresh.  Shut  up  thp  cake 
closely  in  the  box,  and  about  an  hour  before  tea,  set  it  in  front 
of  the  fire,  (not  so  near  as  to  scorch  the  wood,)  and  turn  it 
round  occasionally.  This  will  soften  the  cake,  and  make  it 
seem  fresh.  If  the  cake  is  large,  slice  it  before  you  put  it  into 
the  box. 


BASKET-WARE.— There  should  be  a  large  market  basket 
and  a  smaller  one,  and  these  should  be  kept  very  clean,  wiping 
them  always  after  using,  and  frequently  washing  them  out 
with  a  wet  cloth,  and  then  putting  them  to  dry.  They  will 
require  occasionally  scrubbing  with  a  hand-brush,  soap,  and 
warm  water,  to  get  off  the  grease  that  the  marketing  will  leave 
in  them.  Fish  should  be  carried  home  from  market  in  the 
hand,  and  not  laid  in  the  basket,  or  they  will  communicate  a 
taste  and  smell  to  the  other  provisions.  If  you  use  a  basket 
for  keeping  the  bread,  let  it  be  one  with  a  cover,  and  see  that 
the  bread,  when  put  away  in  it,  is  always  closely  wrapped  in  a 
clean  thick  towel. 

Small  hand-baskets  are  useful  for  eggs,  and  many  other 
articles. 

It  is  well  to  have  a  bottle-basket  with  sockets,  so  that  bot- 
tles may  be  carried  in  it  standing  upright,  and  without  any 
danger  of  breaking. 

Demijohns  (large  bottles,  covered-Vith  basket-work)  are 
extremely  useful  in  a  kitchen  or  store-room,  for  holding  vinegar, 
molasses,  &c. ;  being  less  liable  to  accidents,  than  earthen,  w 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


even  stone  jugs.  Small  demijohns,  holding  from  a  gallon  to 
two  gallons,  are  very  convenient. 

For  laundry-work  you  should  have  one  or  more  large  clothes- 
baskets,  which  should  not  be  used  for  any  other  purpose.  A 
basket  with  a  lid  or  cover  is  useful  for  small  muslins,  &c., 
after  they  are  ironed,  to  preserve  them  from  injury  by  dust  or 
damp. 

An  old  champagne  basket,  kept  in  a  kitchen  closet,  will  be 
found  a  good  receptacle  for  dusters  and  sundry  other  things. 

There  should  be  a  box  or  basket  to  contain  all  the  things 
necessary  for  cleaning  silver  and  other  metal ;  another  for  the 
articles  used  in  cleaning  mahogany  furniture ;  one  for  the  lamp 
things,  and  one  for  those  employed  in  cleaning  knives,  &c. 
Also  a  receptacle  for  the  shoe-cleaning  apparatus.  It  is  well 
to  keep  in  a  box  or  a  drawer  nails  of  different  sizes,  a  claw- 
hammer, a  small  saw,  a  gimlet,  a  screw-driver,  and  a  ball  of  twine. 

KITCHEN  CLOTHS.— Table  cloths  for  the  kitchen  are 
generally  made  of  unbleached  cotton  diaper ;  but  coarse  linen 
or  huckaback  will  eventually  be  found  cheapest,  as  it  will  last 
much  longer.  There  should  be  a  sufficient  number  of  kitchen 
towels  of  different  sorts  to  suit  different  purposes.  For  instance, 
there  may  be  half  a  dozen  rolling  towels  of  crash,  or  coarse 
thick  linen ;  a  dozen  smaller  towels  of  the  same  quality,  each 
being  a  yard  in  length  ;  and  a  dozen  towels  of  common  thin 
linen  diaper,  for  wiping  glasses,  china,  &c. 

Pudding-cloths  are  best  when  of  very  thick  linen,  (for  in- 
stance, Russia  sheeting,)  and  made  square.  Dumpling-cloths 
the  same,  but  smaller.  Jelly  bags  should  be  always  of  white 
flannel ;  when  quite  new,  they  must  be  well  washed  before 
using,  to  get  out  all  the  grease  of  the  wool.  They  are  made 
of  a  square  of  flannel,  doubled  like  a  half  handkerchief,  so  as 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


241 


to  be  wide  at  the  top  and  pointed  at  the  bottom ;  the  side  being 
sewed  up  in  a  strong  seam,  and  the  top  or  mouth  hemmed, 
with  three  tape  loops  sewed  to  it,  by  which,  when  in  use,  it  is 
suspended  to  the  legs  of  a  table,  or  to  a  wooden  frame  made 
for  the  purpose. 

Scouring  flannels  or  rubbers  should  be  strong  and  coarse. 
If  made  on  purpose,  it  is  well  to  hem  them  slightly  all  round, 
to  prevent  their  ravelling.  Do  the  same  with  new  dustersj, 
which  are  better  of  cotton  than  of  linen,  being  softer. 

The  cloths  used  in  scrubbing  the  floor  should  be  of  thick  tow 
linen  or  strong  crash,  and  very  large.  Let  them  also  be 
hemmed.  The  dish-cloths  and  pot-cloths  may  be  less  thick, 
but  also  of  brown  linen.  Paint-cloths  are  best  of  soft  old  linen ; 
if  new,  they  are  apt  to  scratch  the  paint.  Old  towels,  sheets, 
&c.,  come  well  into  use  as  kitchen  cloths.  When  dirty,  let 
them  be  washed,  and  not  thrown  away,  as  of  no  farther  account. 

All  the  above-mentioned  articles  should  be  kept  cleem  and 
taken  care  of,  always  putting  them  away  in  their  proper  places. 
The  clean  towels,  &c.,  may  be  deposited  in  the  dresser-drawers. 

The  cloths  appropriated  to  the  slop-buckets,  &c.,  had  best 
be  of  a  different  colour  and  material  from  the  others,  that  they 
may  be  easily  distinguished,  and  not  used  for  any  other 
purposes. 

Sponges  are  of  great  use  in  various  sorts  of  cleaning.  They 
should  in  all  houses  be  provided  for  the  purpose.  To  keep 
them  soft  and  white,  wash  them  in  warm  water  with  a  little 
tartaric  acid  in  it,  and  then  rinse  them  in  cold  water.  Take 
care  not  to  put  in  too  much  tartaric  acid,  as,  if  used  to  excess, 
it  will  corrode  the  sponge. 

BRUSHES,  &c. — In  most  kitchens  there  is  a  large  closet 
for  the  purpose  of  containing  articles  necessary  for  doing  the 
31 


242 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


work ;  and  in  this  closet  nothing  eatable  should  he  kept.  It  is 
well  to  have  shelves  in  one  part  of  it,  and  hooks  or  pegs  in 
another.  Of  hair  sweeping-brushes  you  will  want  two ;  one 
for  the  lower  part  of  the  house,  and  one  for  the  upper ;  besides 
another  with  a  very  long  handle,  for  windows,  cornices,  &c. 
Corn  or  whisk-brooms  will  be  necessary,  and  a  birch-broom 
may  also  be  useful  for  sweeping  the  cellar,  yard,  &c.  Whisk- 
brooms,  whether  for  sweeping  floors  or  for  brushing  clothes, 
will  last  much  longer,  and  can  be  used  more  effectively,  if  the 
twigs  are  prevented  from  sprawling  out  or  spreading  apart,  by 
covering  them  halfway  down  with  a  sort  of  petticoat  made  of 
stout  brown  linen,  or  coarse,  strong  cotton.  It  must  be  fastened 
tightly  round  the  bottom  of  the  handle,  where  the  twig  or  broom 
part  commences,  extending  downwards  about  halfway,  and 
must  fit  tightly,  so  as  to  keep  the  twigs  close  and  compact. 
"We  have  seen  these  covers  very  nicely  made,  with  a  hem  at 
the  bottom,  and  a  case  and  drawing-string  of  tape  at  the  top, 
so  as  to  slip  on  to  the  whisk,  and  be  tied  round ;  having  the 
advantage  of  being  taken  off  and  washed  when  dirty.  A  tole- 
rable cover  may  be  made  for  a  broom  by  slipping  over  it  part 
of  the  leg  of  an  old  woollen  stocking,  securing  it  round  the 
bottom  of  the  handle  with  a  string. 

Short-handled  brushes  will  be  wanted  for  the  stairs,  for 
brushing  bedsteads,  for  removing  the  dust  from  between  the 
slats  of  Venetian  shutters,  and  for  many  other  purposes.  All 
brooms  and  brushes  used  for  sweeping  will  last  much  -onger 
if,  when  not  in  use,  they  are  hung  up  by  a  loop  of  twme  or 
tape,  passed  through  a  hole  drilled  for  the  purpose  near  tie  top 
of  the  handle. 

Also,  before  they  are  put  away,  let  all  the  bits  of  flue,  clip- 
pings, threads,  &c.,  be  picked  off  them. 
You  will,  of  course,  want  scrubbing-brushes  with  and  with- 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


243 


out  handles;  white-wash  brushes;  stove-brushes;  shoe-brushes, 
and  brushes  for  cleaning  the  various  articles  of  furniture,  in- 
cluding silver.  These  should  be  kept  in  suitable  places, 
and  always  washed  before  they  are  put  away.  One  or  more 
paint-brushes  will  be  found  very  convenient  in  every  house. 
After  using,  they  should  be  soaked  in  spirits  of  turpentine  to 
get  off  the  paint,  and  then  washed  in  warm  soap-suds. 

Leathers  for  cleaning  metal  are  indispensable.  They  will 
last  longer,  and  be  taken  better  care  of,  if  of  large  size  and  of 
regular  shape.  They  should  be  of  buckskin ;  or  soft  sheepskin, 
such  as  passes  for  the  skin  of  the  chamois  goat,  and  is  called 
shammy  leather.  These  leathers  can  easily  be  washed  with 
soap  and  water ;  and  this  ought  always  to  be  done  when  they 
require  it. 


REFRIGERATORS.  — These  are  large  wooden  boxes, 
standing  on  feet,  and  lined  with  tin  or  zinc,  being  generally 
interlined  with  charcoal,  and  having  at  the  bottom  a  receptacle 
for  ice,  and  a  drain  to  carry  off  the  water  that  drips  from  it  as 
it  melts ;  a  vessel  being  always  set  underneath  to  catch  the 
droppings.  They  are  divided  into  compartments  for  the  recep- 
tion of  different  articles  of  provisions,  and  furnished  with  mova- 
ble shelves  or  slats  on  which  to  set  the  things.  During  the 
warm  season  they  must  be  every  day  replenished  with  fresh 
ice,  wrapped  in  a  piece  of  blanket  to  prevent  its  melting  too 
fast.  In  a  refrigerator,  articles  of  provision  may  be  kept  from 
spoiling  with  much  more  certainty  than  when  placed  in  a  cellar 
or  vault.  They  are  conveniences  which  no  family  should  be 
without.  It  is  well  to  have  two ;  one  for  meat,  &c.,  and  the 
other  exclusively  for  Sutter,  cream,  milk,  and  nice  things  made 
from  the  productions  of  the  dairy ;  as  these  are  all  very  apt  to 
imbibe  a  disagreeable  taste  if  kept  in  the  vicinity  of  provisions 


244 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


that  are  of  a  less  delicate  nature.  We  have  seen  in  dining- 
rooms  handsome  mahogany  refrigerators,  for  the  purpose  of 
keeping  cool  the  wine  and  other  liquors  used  for  the  tahle. 

Refrigerators  must  be  kept  very  clean,  wiping  them  out 
every  day,  and  about  once  a  week  washing  the  inside  thoroughly, 
and  exposing  them  a  while  to  the  air  with  the  lid  left  open.  A 
refrigerator  must  on  no  account  be  kept  in  the  kitchen,  or  in 
any  place  where  there  is  fire.  It  may  stand  in  the  pantry,  or 
in  the  kitchen  entry. 


SAFES. — ^A  safe  is  a  movable  closet,  standing  on  feet ;  the 
doors  and  sides  being  made  of  wire  net,  or  of  perforated  tin.  It 
has  shelves  inside,  and  is  used  for  keeping  cold  meat,  pies,  and 
other  articles  left  from  the  table.  The  safe  should  stand  in  the 
pantry  or  in  the  kitchen  entry ;  the  kitchen  itself  will  be  too 
warm  for  it.  They  have  the  advantage  of  being  inaccessible 
to  mice.  If  your  house  is  infested  with  ants,  it  will  be  well 
not  to  place  the  safe  near  the  wall,  and  to  stand  all  its  feet  in 
tin  cups  of  salt  and  water.  The  safe  should  be  scrubbed  out 
frequently,  and  then  carried  into  the  area  or  the  yard,  and 
exposed  a  while  to  the  fresh  air,  with  its  doors  open. 

In  setting  away  cold  meat,  &c.,  always  put  a  cover  on  the 
dish.  Pitchers  used  for  milk  and  cream  should  have  covers 
belonging  to  them.  They  can  be  fitted  with  tin  covers  at  a  tin- 
store  ;  which  are  better  than  any  others,  as  there  is  no  danger 
of  their  breaking.  Covered  pitchers  are  also  very  convenient 
for  keeping  water  warm,  and  for  herb  teas,  barley-water,  gruel, 
&c.,  in  sick-rooms. 


FILTERING  JARS. — In  places  where  river  water  is  used 
for  drinking  and  cooking,  a  filtering  jar  is  an  article  of  great 
convenience,  rendering  the  water  more  wholesome  as  well  as 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


245 


more  agreeable,  by  depriving  of  its  impurities.  River  water 
(even  that  which  is  generally  clear)  always  becomes  more  or 
less  turbid  in  rainy  weather,  or  when  the  ice  breaks  up ;  and  it 
is  then  in  a  very  bad  state  for  use. 

Filtering  jars  may  be  had  in  all  places  where  stone  ware  is 
sold ;  they  should  be  kept  in  the  cellar,  and  when  the  water  is 
drawn  out,  they  should  be  replenished,  so  as  to  keep  them  full. 

A  very  cheap  and  good  contrivance  for  filtering,  is  to  take  a 
large  garden  flower-pot,  and  lay  in  the  bottom  a  piece  of 
sponge,  so  as  to  cover  the  hole.  Upon  this,  put  a  few  smooth 
clean  pebbles,  to  keep  the  sponge  in  its  place,  and  fill  up  the 
pot  to  within  two  or  three  inches  of  the  brim,  with  a  mixture 
of  one  part  of  powdered  charcoal,  to  two  parts  of  fine  sharp 
sand.  Then  cover  the  top  of  the  pot  with  a  piece  of  clean 
white  flannel,  tied  tightly  round  the  rim  with  a  twine,  but  so 
as  to  sink  or  sway  down  in  the  centre.  Set  the  flower-pot  into 
a  pan  or  tub,  and  pour  the  water  into  the  flannel,  letting  it  filter 
through  the  charcoal,  &c. ;  and  by  the  time  it  has  passed 
through  the  sponge,  and  come  out  at  the  bottom,  it  will  be 
clear. 


THE  CELLAR. — If  you  are  under  the  necessity  of  keep- 
ing articles  of  provision  in  a  cellar,  it  should  be  partitioned  oflT, 
or  separated  by  a  wall  from  that  in  which  the  fuel,  &c.,  is 
deposited.  Great  care  is  necessary  in  keeping  the  cellar  clean, 
and  free  from  every  thing  that  has  a  powerful  smell.  A  barrel 
of  salt  fish  placed  in  the  cellar  will  frequently  pervade  the 
whole  house  with  its  odour,  and  impart  a  fishy  taste  to  every 
article  of  food  that  may  be  kept  there ;  also  by  rendering  the 
air  impure,  it  will  cause  them  to  spoil  very  soon.  Milk  or 
butter  kept  in  the  same  cellar  with  a  fish-barrel,  acquires  a 
very  disagreeable  taste,  and  is  indeed  unfit  for  use.  In  a  town, 
21* 


246 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


where  salt-fish  can  always  be  purchased  in  small  quantities  for 
immediate  use,  it  is  best  to  keep  no  fish-barrel  at  all ;  as  the 
smell  is  generally  more  or  less  diffused  thnough  the  lower  part 
of  the  house,  and  will  be  very  perceptible  to  visiters,  though 
custom  may  prevent  the  family  from  noticing  it. 

If  you  keep  a  barrel  for  pig-slop,  either  in  the  cellar  or  in 
the  yard,  see  that  it  is  emptied  daily,  and  the  contents  carried 
away ;  otherwise,  it  will  certainly  cause  a.  very  offensive  and 
unwholesome  smell.  In  warm  weather,  the  slop-barrel  should 
not  be  kept  near  the  kitchen,  but  in  an  out-house,  or  in  the  most 
remote  part  of  the  yard.  If  you  have  pigs  of  your  own,  keep 
no  slop-barrel  at  all,  (particularly  in  summer,)  but  let  the 
refuse  of  the  kitchen  be  thrown  into  an  old  tub  or  bucket,  and 
carried  to  them  at  once. 

By  carefully  stopping  all  the  holes  and  crevices,  and  by 
keeping  the  windows  of  your  cellar  carefully  closed,  particu- 
larly after  sunset,  you  may  prevent  the  ingress  of  rats  and  mice 
from  the  neighbouring  houses.  For  this  reason,  the  windows 
should  be  protected  by  close  nettings  of  thick  iron  wire ;  as,  if 
there  are  only  bars,  these  destructive  animals  can  easily  slip  in 
between.  We  have  seen  in  a  public  street,  and  in  broad  day- 
light, a  rat  going  into  a  cellar  through  the  iron  bars  of  the 
window. 

Cabbages  and  other  vegetables  may  be  kept  all  winter  in  a 
cellar,  by  burying  them  in  earth  or  sand. 

A  cellar,  like  all  other  places  belonging  to  a  house,  should 
be  kept  clean ;  for  no  impurity  can  be  allowed  to  remain  there, 
without  causing  an  offensive  effluvia,  and  endangering  the 
health  of  the  family.  The  floor,  whether  of  clay  or  stone,  will 
require  frequent  sweeping  with  a  coarse  broom,  and  all  the 
contents  of  the  cellar  should  be  arranged  in  good  order,  and 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


247 


not  allowed  to  stand  about  in  the  way  of  every  one  that  enters 
the  place. 

In  a  fuel  cellar,  there  should  be  receptacles  for  the  ashes, 
and  for  the  dust  collected  in  sweeping  the  house.  In  most 
cellars,  there  are  cavities  made  for  the  purpose,  and  called  the 
ash-hole,  and  the  dust-hole.  Besides  the  coal  and  wood,  here 
are  kept  the  charcoal  barrels;  the  cinder-sieve;  the  coal- 
scuttles, when  not  in  immediate  use ;  the  fire-pan,  for  carrying 
live  coals  that  are  wanted  for  kindling ;  the  saw,  and  the  wood 
axe.  Each  of  these  things  should  of  course  have  its  appro- 
priate place.  The  business  of  knife-cleaning,  and  of  boot- 
cleaning,  is  sometimes  performed  in  the  cellar,  if  it  is  light 
enough  for  such  purposes.  A  cellar  closet  is  a  great  conve- 
nience, as  many  things  can  be  kept  there  that  are  not  exactly 
proper  for  the  kitchen  closets. 

HYDRANTS  AND  PUMPS.— To  prevent  a  hydrant  in 
the  yard  from  freezing,  cover  it  closely,  as  soon  as  the  cold 
weather  sets  in,  with  straw  above  and  below,  leaving  nothing 
exposed  but  the  handle  and  the  spout,  and  lay  over  the  top 
several  folds  of  old  carpet  or  coarse  blanket.  A  hydrant  will 
be  less  likely  to  freeze,  if  care  is  taken,  after  drawing  water 
from  it,  always  to  turn  the  handle  back,  as  far  as  it  can  possi- 
bly go.    This  caution  should  be  impressed  on  the  servants. 

If  you  have  a  pump,  you  may  prevent  its  freezing,  during 
the  night,  by  setting  the  handle  as  high  as  it  will  go.  It  is 
well,  also,  to  cover  the  pump  as  much  as  possible  with  straw 
and  old  carpet.  In  the  north,  we  have  seen  pumps  screened 
from  the  cold,  by  a  roof  or  shed  built  over  them. 

If  the  hydrant  or  the  pump  should  freeze,  you  may  thaw  it, 
by  pouring  on  a  kettle  full  of  boiling  water,  round  the  handle 
and  the  spout. 


248 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


In  cities  sufficiently  south  for  fig-trees  to  grow  in  the  open 
air,  they  will  thrive  beautifully  if  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of 
a  garden  hydrant.  The  finest  fig-trees  we  ever  saw  in  America, 
were  planted  one  on  each  side  of  a  little  garden  in  the  most 
central  part  of  Philadelphia.  They  grew  to  an  unusual  height, 
produced  a  continual  succession  of  figs,  and  their  foliage 
always  remained  green  and  luxuriant,  till  late  in  the  autumn. 
Grape-vines  planted  on  the  hydrant-side  of  the  garden,  will 
generally  produce  finer  fruit,  and  in  greater  abundance,  than  on 
any  of  the  other  walls. 


STORE-ROOMS. — It  is  a  great  convenience  (in  the  country 
particularly)  to  have  two  store-rooms;  one  of  them  not  far 
from  the  kitchen;  the  other  in  the  vicinity  of  the  dining-room. 
In  one,  you  can  keep  tea,  coffee,  chocolate,  sugar,  flour,  rice, 
soap,  candles,  &c. ;  all  which  articles,  there  is  great  economy, 
as  well  as  convenience,  in  buying  by  the  quantity,  particularly 
if  the  family  is  large.  In  this  store-room  should  be  kept  scales, 
weights,  and  measures;  the  scales  fixed  permanently  to  a 
beam. 

Smoked  tongues,  hams,  and  dried  beef  may  be  kept  here, 
sewed  up  in  white-washed  cloths,  and  suspended  on  hooks  to 
the  ceiling.  Hanging  shelves  are  very  useful  in  a  store-room. 
Great  care  should  be  taken  to  keep  out  rats,  mice,  and  cock- 
roaches. 

The  other  store-room  may  be  smaller,  and  appropriated  to  the 
pickles,  sweetmeats,  cakes,  &c.,  that  may  be  used  in  the 
family;  also  sweet  wines,  cordials,  syrups,  and  other  articles 
of  like  description  Here  may  be  kept  the  utensils  for  making 
blanc-mange,  ice-cream,  and  confectionary  of  various  de- 
scriptions. 

It  is  well  to  have  all  the  jars  labelled  with  the  names  of  the 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS. 


249 


things  contained  in  them,  that  wrong  ones  may  not  be  opened 
by  mistake.  Here  should  be  kept  a  large  spoon  and  a  fork  for 
lifting  out  the  pickles,  and  another  spoon  and  fork  for  the 
preserves.  Also  a  towel,  for  wiping  up  any  juice  or  vinegar 
that  may  chance  to  drop. 

This  store-room  must  be  well  furnished  with  shelves.  And 
it  is  very  convenient  to  have  a  small  table  in  the  centre,  to  set 
things  on  when  you  take  them  down. 


/ 


250 


THE  DINING-ROOM,  &c. 


If  the  dining-room  is  adjoining  to  the  kitchen,  much  trouble 
of  opening  and  shutting  the  door,  and  going  out  and  in,  may 
be  saved,  by  making  ia  the  partition  between  the  two  apart- 
ments, a  square  window  with  two  shutters,  one  on  each  side; 
the  shutter  that  opens  into  the  dining-room  to  be  painted  or 
papered  to  correspond  with  the  wall,  so  that  when  closed,  it 
may  be  scarcely  perceptible.  On  the  kitchen  side,  the  window 
should  have  two  very  broad  shelves,  on  which  to  set  the  dishes, 
&c.,  that  are  handed  in  and  out  through  it. 

When  the  dining-room  is  up  stairs,  and  immediately  over 
the  kitchen,  a  dumb-waiter  closet  will  be  found  a  great  conve- 
nience. This  is  a  long  deep  closet,  made  in  the  wall,  and  de- 
scending from  the  dining-room  to  the  kitchen,  with  a  door  into 
each.  Inside  of  this  closet,  is  a  tier  of  broad  square  shelves 
one  above  another,  and  connected  by  a  frame.  This  tier  of 
shelves  is  raised  and  lowered  by  means  of  a  pulley  and  a 
strong  rope,  with  a  loop  or  handle  at  each  end.  On  these 
shelves,  the  cook  places  the  dishes,  and  they  are  drawn  up  by 
the  servant  that  waits  on  the  table,  and  let  down  when  done 
with.  Each  shelf  of  this  apparatus  is  surrounded  by  a  rim  or 
ledge  like  a  tray.  A  contrivance  of  this  kind  saves  much  time 
and  trouble  in  carrying  the  things  up  and  down  stairs,  and 
lessens  the  risk  of  breakage. 

If  there  is  no  convenient  pantry,  a  large  closet  is  indispen- 
sable to  a  dining-room.    Two  small  side-boards,  one  in  each 


THE    PANTRY,  ETC. 


251 


recess,  occupy  less  space  than  a  large  one  standing  ont,  and 
are  therefore  preferable,  unless  the  dining-room  is  very  spacious 
and  expensively  furnished,  so  that  an  elegant  side-board  may 
be  classed  among  its  ornaments. 

THE  PANTRY. — The  pantry  is  a  small  apartment,  either 
adjoining  to  the  dining-room  or  very  near  it,  in  which  it  is  very 
convenient  to  wash  the  china  and  glasses,  to  arrange  the  cas- 
tors, clean  the  silver,  &c.  It  should  be  fitted  up  with  shelves 
for  holding  the  glass  and  china,  or,  what  is  still  better,  with  a 
sort  of  dresser,  having  closets  above  and  drawers  beneath.  The 
plate  should  either  have  a  closet  to  itself,  or  be  kept  in  drawers 
lined  with  green  baize.  We  have  seen  a  plate  closet  of  iron, 
let  into  the  wall  of  a  pantry,  and  opening  by  a  sliding  door,  so 
constructed  as  to  be  imperceptible  to  strangers.  In  some  fami- 
lies all  the  plate  is  locked  up  every  night  in  an  iron  chest,  the 
key  being  kept  by  the  master  of  the  house. 

In  places  where  there  is  an  abundance  of  water,  (as  in  Phi- 
ladelphia,) it  is  not  unfrequent  to  have  it  brought  by  a  pipe 
into  the  pantry,  not  only  for  the  convenience  of  washing  the 
articles  contained  there,  but  to  afford  a  supply  to  all  that  part 
of  the  house.  Under  the  spout  of  the  pantry  water  pipe,  in  a 
handsome  house,  we  have  seen  the  sink  or  drain  lined  with 
marble  instead  of  lead  or  zinc.  In  winter  it  is  well  to  have  the 
pantry  made  comfortably  warm  by  an  iron  dram  or  something 
of  that  sort.  Here  should  be  kept  the  knives,  forks,  crumb- 
cloth,  table-cloths,  napkins,  waiters,  trays,  plate-warmer,  dish- 
mats,  cork-screws,  wine-coolers,  and  every  thing  necessary  for 
setting  the  table. 


THE  CASTORS. — Attention  should  every  day  be  given  to 
the  castors,  to  see  that  they  are  clean  ond  in  proper  order,  and 


252 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


I 


that  there  is  no  deficiency  of  any  of  the  articles  contained  in 
the  cruets.  It  is  a  good  rule  to  fill  them  up  daily.  The  cay- 
enne should  be  shaken  and  stirred  up  to  the  bottom  every  day, 
as  it  is  apt  to  get  into  solid  masses;  and  the  cover  of  the  bottle 
should  be  examined,  to  see  if  the  holes  are  not  clogged  and 
stopped  up  with  the  pepper,  which  in  that  case  must  be  removed 
by  poking  it  out  with  a  large  pin  or  with  the  prong  of  a  fork. 
The  vinegar  cruet  must  also  be  inspected,  to  see  that  its  con- 
tents are  not  cloudy.  Vinegar  by  long  standing  will  collect  a 
mouldy  sort  of  slime,  commonly  called  the  mother.  It  should 
then  be  emptied  out,  and  the  bottle  well  washed.  Much  of  the 
vinegar  now  sold  in  the  stores  is  adulterated  with  vitriol,  tar- 
taric acid,  or  some  other  ingredient,  of  which  a  small  quantity 
will  give  a  strong  degree  of  sourness,  but  at  the  same  time 
rendering  the  liquid  so  corrosive  as  to  be  unfit  for  use.  We 
have  seen  oysters  that,  from  being  pickled  with  this  pernicious 
vinegar,  were  eaten  into  holes  by  it  before  they  were  cold,  all 
of  them  dissolving  by  next  day  into  imperceptible  particles. 
Pickles  also  are  destroyed  by  it  in  the  same  manner ;  and  of 
course  its  effects  on  the  human  system  must  be  highly  delete- 
rious. It  is  safest  to  try  a  small  qu^mtity  first,  and  if  you  find 
it  of  the  above  description,  send  back  what  you  have  bought ; 
or  at  least  do  not,  on  any  consideration,  use  it.  We  believe 
that  Underwood's  best  pickling  vinegar  may  be  safely  depended 
on.  Families  that  live  in  the  country  will  find  it  most  conve- 
nient to  make  their  own  vinegar. 

Salad  oil,  when  not  fresh,  acquires  a  very  unpleasant  taste. 
When  this  happens,  it  need  not  be  thrown  away  after  removing 
it  from  the  cruet,  as  it  may  be  saved  for  the  mixtures  used  in 
cleaning  furniture,  &c.  Do  not  mix  much  mustard  at  a  time, 
fs  The  fresher  it  is  the  better.  Never  leave  the  spoon  in  the 
mustard  after  dinner,  nor  the  salt-spoons  in  the  salt,  or  they 


THE    PANTRY,  ETC. 


253 


y^ll  spot  and  canker ;  but  take  them  out  and  wash  them  when 
you  do  the  other  spoons.  Also,  empty  out  the  salt-cellars  and 
wipe  them  clean.  When  you  fill  them,  smooth  the  salt  very 
nicely  on  the  top.  Salt  must  be  kept  perfectly  dry,  for  if  damp 
it  will  be  moist  and  discoloured.  Use  only  the  best ;  its  cost 
is  not  much,  and  there  is  no  real  economy  in  buying  salt  of  infe- 
rior quality. 

In  some  castors  are  bottles  for  powdered  loaf-sugar ;  but  the 
most  usual  way  of  bringing  this  condiment  to  table  is  in  a  small 
glass  or  silver  bowl,  with  a  perforated  ladle  for  dipping  it  out 
and  sprinkling  it  on.  After  powdering,  let  it  always  be 
sifted. 

If  the  stopper  of  a  cruet  is  lost  or  broken,  it  should  at  once 
be  replaced  with  a  new  one ;  besides  that,  if  left  open,  the  con- 
tents will  spoil,  a  castor  with  defective  bottles  looks  very  badly. 

A  table  large  enough  for  fifteen  or  twenty  persons  will 
require  two  castors. 

There  are  castors  purposely  for  anchovy,  soy,  catchup,  and 
other  fish-sauces.  They  contain  either  four  or  six  handsome 
bottles,  all  labelled.  We  consider  this  a  much  nicer  way  of 
bringing  fish-sauces  to  table  than  the  common  one  of  introduc- 
ing them  in  the  coarse  black  bottles  in  which  they  are  put  up. 


TABLE-MATS.— A  set  of  table-mats  (of  which  the  India 
are  the  best)  are  indispensably  necessary,  to  prevent  the  heat 
of  the  dishes  from  leaving  white  marks  on  the  table.  The  low- 
priced  mats  of  checkered  straw  wear  out  or  break  to  pieces  so 
soon,  that  they  are  not  worth  buying.  We  have  seen  very  good 
and  durable  substitutes  for  India  mats,  made  of  thick  oil-cloth, 
cut  into  an  octagon  shape  and  of  different  sizes,  lined  under- 
neath with  green  baize  or  with  stout  woollen  cloth,  and  bound 
round  the  edge  with  worsted  ferret.  The  oil-cloth  for  this 
2=2 


254 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


purpose  looks  best  to  be  of  only  one  colour ;  for  instance, 
shaded  green  or  shaded  brown. 

Little  stands  for  tea-cups  may  be  made  in  this  manner. 


KNIFE  RESTS.— There  should  be  a  pair  of  these  placed 
at  each  end  of  the  table,  at  the  sides  of  the  two  principal  dishes, 
for  the  purpose  of  receiving  the  knife  and  fork  when  the  carver 
lays  them  down,  instead  of  putting  them  into  the  dish.  They 
are  sometimes  of  china,  corresponding  with  the  dinner  set,  and 
very  frequently  of  silver. 


BUTTER  KNIVES.— Beside  each  butter  plate  should  be 
placed  a  knife,  as  no  person  accustomed  to  genteel  society  will 
help  himself  to  butter  with  his  own  knife.  There  are  knives 
with  silver  blades  made  expressly  for  this  purpose.  They  are 
best  with  silver  handles ;  as  those  of  mother-of-pearl  are  very 
liable  to  break,  or  come  oflF. 


FINGER  GLASSES.— These  are  generally  blue  or  green, 
and  are  filled  with  water  and  set  round  the  table,  just  before 
the  cloth  is  removed,  for  the  company  to  dip  their  fingers  in, 
rubbing  them  with  a  slice  of  lemon  or  an  orange  leaf,  that  is 
put  into  each  glass  for  the  purpose.  Every  glass  is  placed 
on  a  folded  doily.  The  disgusting  European  custom  of  taking 
a  mouthful  or  two  of  the  water,  emd,  after  washing  the  mouth, 
spitting  it  back  again  into  the  finger  glass,  has  not  become 
fashionable  in  America.  Neither  is  it  usual  in  our  country  to 
place  tooth-picks  on  the  table  for  the  benefit  of  the  company ; 
most  gentlemen  preferring  to  pick  their  teeth  and  wash  their 
mouths  in  private. 


THE    PANTRY,  ETC. 


2m 


TABLE-LINEN.— If  the  circumstances  of  the  family  will 
allow  the  expenditure,  it  is  advisable  always  to  get  the  table- 
linen  of  the  best  quality ;  as  that  which  is  fine  and  thick  will 
last  much  longer  and  look  much  better  than  if  comparatively 
coarse  and  thin.  There  is  nothing  of  the  sort  superior  to  the 
best  double  French  damask ;  it  being  not  only  fine  and  thick, 
but  soft  and  glossy,  like  satin ;  and  it  looks  as  well  after  wash- 
ing as  before.  The  appearance  of  all  table-linen  is  improved 
by  being  mangled  in  a  machine,  instead  of  ironing.  A  table- 
-cloth  ought  to  be  considerably  larger  than  the  table,  so  as  to 
hang  down  all  round. 

NAPKINS.— There  are  few  genteel  families  who  are  not  in 
the  practice  of  using  napkins  at  table,  to  spread  on  the  lap 
while  eating,  and  for  wiping  the  mouth  and  the  fingers.  The 
best  size  is  about  three-quarters  square.  It  is  now  more  cus- 
tomary to  hem  the  napkins  than  to  ravel  them  into  a  fringe. 
If  fringed,  they  must  be  afterwards  whipped  with  a  needle  and 
thread,  to  secure  them  from  ravelling  still  farther.  Napkins 
with  coloured  borders  look  less  genteel  than  those  that  are  all 
white.  The  fine  French  double  damask  are  the  best  and  hand- 
somest, and  will  last  twice  as  long  as  any  others.  For  a  dinner 
party  it  is  customary  to  place  the  napkins  on  the  table,  nicely 
folded  in  squares  or  diamonds,  of  which  there  are  a  variety  of 
ingenious  forms.  But  when  the  family  dine  without  company, 
or  with  only  two  or  three  guests,  the  napkins  are  usually  folded 
square,  and  then  rolled  up  tightly  and  slipped  into  a  ring  of 
silver,  ivory,  ebony,  or  box-wood.  These  rings  are  generally 
numbered  or  lettered ;  and  care  shpuld  be  taken  to  place  the 
napkin  of  each  person  in  his  own  ring. 

All  table-linen  should  be  marked  in  full  with  the  whole 
name  of  the  family. 


256 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


DOILIES.— These  are  small  napkins  intended  for  Aviping 
the  fingers  after  eating  fruit,  and  are  placed  round  the  table  for 
that  purpose.  They  are  very  generally  of  coloured  cotton, 
with  a  border ;  the  colours  are  dark,  that  the  stains  may  not  be 
conspicuous  on  them.  Unless  they  are  washed  very  frequently, 
they  acquire  a  rather  unpleasant  smell,  and  are  not  agreeable 
to  use.  We  think  it  best  to  have  white  ones,  as*  they  are  much 
nicer,  and  the  stains  can  easily  be  removed  from  them.  Doilies 
are  always  fringed. 


SETTING  THE  DINNER  TABLE.-Before  you  begin 
to  set  the  table,  see  that  every  thing  is  ready  and  in  good  order; 
so  that,  after  you  once  commence,  you  may  not  have  to  quit  for 
the  purpose  of  making  something  clean,  or  of  remedying  some 
inconvenience.  If  in  winter,  first  see  that  the  fire  is  good,  and 
the  hearth  clean,  and  the  plates  set  before  it  in  the  plate-warmer. 
In  summer,  if  there  is  to  be  wine,  attend  in  proper  time  to  put- 
ting the  bottles  into  the  cooler,  heaping  round  them  pieces  of 
ice.  Also  have  ready,  in  one  or  more  small  glass  dishes  oi 
saucers,  a  sufficiency  of  bright  clean  ice,  broken  into  small 
bits,  (with  a  dessert  spoon  in  each  dish,)  for  the  purpose  of 
using  while  at  table  to  cool  the  glasses  of  wine  or  water. 

Cut  the  dinner  bread  into  thick  oblong  pieces  or  blocks ;  as 
it  is  not  customary  to  slice  bread,  except  for  breakfast  and  tea; 
and  take  care  to  have  enough  in  the  bread-basket  to  supply  all 
the  persons  at  table  with  a  second  piece,  if  required.  It  is 
extremely  awkward  to  be  obliged  to  replenish  the  bread-basket 
in  the  midst  of  dinner,  some  of  the  company,  perhaps,  waiting 
for  it  in  the  mean  time.  Every  thing  may  be  so  arranged 
before-hand  that  the  waiter  will  not  have  occasion  to  leave  the 
room  during  the  progress  of  the  dinner. 

First  lay  down  the  crumb-cloth;  and  then,  if  there  is  a 


SETTING    THE    DINNER  TABLE. 


257 


woollen  cover  on  the  dining-table,  remove  it  before  you  put  on 
the  linen  cloth,  which  must  be  laid  smoothly  and  evenly,  so  as 
not  to  hang  down  more  on  one  side  than  on  another.  Bring  in 
the  things  (as  many  at  a  time  as  you  can)  on  your  tray.  Set 
your  plates  round  the  table,  one  for  every  person,  but  place  them 
at  the  sides  only,  except  those  that  are  intended  for  the  master 
and  mistress  of  the  house,  who  of  course  occupy  the  two  ends, 
and  will  not  be  able  to  carve  so  conveniently  if  any  one  is 
seated  beside  them. 

It  is  always  better  to  have  too  much  space  than  too  little ; 
and  it  is  therefore  advisable  to  set  a  table  rather  too  large  for 
the  company,  than  one  that  is  in  the  least  too  small.  We  have 
seen  a  whole  dinner  party  made  uncomfortable  all  the  time, 
from  being  crowded  at  a  table  of  insufficient  size ;  and  in  warm 
weather,  particularly,  this  is  no  trifling  inconvenience. 

Having  set  round  the  plates,  lay  a  knife  and  fork  in  front  of 
each ;  and  if  there  is  soup,  a  spoon ;  also  setting  a  soup  plate 
on  each  of  the  flat  ones.  At  each  corner  of  the  table  lay  two 
spoons  across,  and  put  other  spoons  wherever  dishes  are  to  be 
set.  Have  a  salt-cellar  at  each  corner,  between  the  bowls  of 
the  crossed  spoons.  In  some  houses  it  is  customary  to  keep 
the  castors  on  the  side-board,  to  be  handed  by  the  waiter  as 
they  may  be  required.  This  we  think  inconvenient,  particularly 
where  there  are  but  one  or  two  waiters,  and  eight  or  ten  persons 
at  table.  We  see  no  very  reasonable  objection  to  having  the 
castors  on  the  dining  table.  If  there  are  two  sets  of  castors, 
place  in  the  middle  of  the  table  the  salad  bowl  or  the  celery 
glass ;  unless  there  is  company  to  dinner,  and  the  centre,  per- 
haps, is  . occupied  by  a  plateau,  an  epergne,  a  vase  of  flowers, 
or  some  other  ornament. 

If  there  are  to  be  two  large  dishes,  place  a  carving  knife  and 
fork,  and  a  large  gravy  spoon,  for  each.  For  soup,  place  the 
22* 


258 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


soup-ladle  at  the  head  of  the  table.  For  fish,  lay  the  fish-knife 
at  the  foot.    Also  knives,  forks,  and  spoons  for  the  side  dishes. 

At  the  left  hand  of  every  plate  place  a  tumbler,  and  one  or 
more  wine-glasses,  according  to  the  variety  of  wines  that  are 
to  be  brought  to  table ;  it  being  customary  to  drink  different 
wines  out  of  different  sorts  of  glasses ;  the  fashionable  glass 
for  each  wine  varying  so  frequently,  that  it  is  difficult  in  this 
respect  to  give  any  rules.  The  decanters  are  to  stand  near  the 
corners.  It  is  now  usual  at  many  tables  to  have  a  small  water- 
bottle  (holding  about  a  pint)  placed  by  the  side  of  every  plate, 
that  each  person  may  pour  out  water  for  himself.  Neverthe- 
less, there  should  always  be  water-pitchers  on  the  side-table, 
to  replenish  the  bottles  when  necessary,  whether  large  or  small 
ones  are  used  on  the  table.  In  summer,  when  filling  the 
pitchers,  put  two  or  three  lumps  of  ice  into  each. 

At  the  right  hand  of  every  plate  put  the  napkin  and  the  bread, 
taking  each  piece  out  of  the  bread-basket  with  a  fork.  At 
dinner-parties  it  is  usual  to  have  each  napkin  nicely  folded  in 
a  diamond  or  other  form,  and  the  bread  laid  in  the  centre, 
covered  by  one  of  the  corners.  On  such  occasions  it  is  very 
customary  to  have  light  French  rolls  instead  of  pieces  of  cut 
bread. 

On  the  side-table  place  a  waiter  or  tray  for  receiving  the 
dish-covers,  plates,  dishes,  &c.,  that  are  removed  from  the  table 
after  using.  Also  a  knife-basket.  It  is  a  good  custom  to  keep 
there  always  at  dinner-time  (as  mentioned  in  a  former  page)  a 
large  can  or  mug  of  painted  block  tin,  filled  with  hot  water,  in 
which  to  plunge  the  blades  of  the  knives  as  they  are  taken  from 
table,  that  the  grease  may  not  have  time  to  drv  on  them.  To 
wipe  a  knife  or  fork  and  return  it  to  the  table,  is  not  an  agree- 
able custom ;  as,  without  a  regular  cleaning,  taey  will  always 
smell  and  taste  of  the  things  for  which  they  have  just  been 


SETTING    THE    DINNER  TABLE.  259 

used ;  of  fish,  cheese,  or  onions,  particularly.  In  all  families 
that  are  able  to  live  genteelly,  there  should  be  a  sufficiency  of 
knives,  forks,  &c.,  to  afford  fresh  clean  ones  as  often  as  the 
plates  are  changed.  It  is  well,  even  in  small  private  families, 
to  have  on  the  side-table  some  extra  plates,  knives,  glasses, 
&c.,  in  case  of  a  friend  coming  in  unexpectedly,  and  consent- 
ing to  sit  down  and  take  dinner;  this  will  preclude  the  neces- 
sity of  sending  a  servant  out  of  the  room  to  bring  them; 
besides  which,  they  will  be  at  hand,  in  case  they  may  acci- 
dentally be  wanted  for  other  purposes. 

The  side-board  is  the  place  for  the  extra  bottles,  glasses, 
silver,  china,  fruit,  &c.,  that  may  be  required  at  the  dessert,  or 
after  the  cloth  is  removed.  These  articles  may  be  so  disposed 
on  the  side-board  as  to  make  a  very  handsome  appearance, 
particularly  when  it  has  a  marble  top,  and  is  lighted  up  for  an 
evening  dinner-party.  The  side-board  is  also  the  place  for 
handsome  water-pitchers,  finger-glasses,  and  silver  waiters. 

When  dinner  is  ready,  bring  in  your  dishes  on  the  tray,  set- 
ting it  down  on  the  tray-stand.  Each  dish  should  have  a 
cover.  If  there  is  soup,  set  the  tureen  at  the  head  of  the 
table,  to  be  helped  by  the  mistress  of  the  house ;  and  if  there 
is  fish  also,  place  that  at  the  foot  of  the  table.  Should  there 
be  only  one  of  these  articles,  put  it  before  the  lady's  seat,  and 
place  the  largest  dish  of  meat  or  poultry  at  the  bottom.  Set 
the  side  dishes  opposite  to  each  other ;  and  in  arranging  the 
vegetables,  do  not  place  together  those  that  are  most  similar. 
For  instance,  do  not  put  peas  and  beans  next  to  each  other ; 
or  sweet  potatoes  and  white  potatoes ;  or  parsneps  and  carrots ; 
or  squashes  and  mashed  turnips.  It  would  be  still  worse, 
when  there  are  two  dishes  of  each  vegetable,  (as  is  generally  the 
case  lit  a  large  table,)  to  place  together  both  dishes  of  asparagus, 
or  both  dishes  of  cauliflower.   They  should  be  made  to  match 


260 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


cross  corners,  (as  it  is  called,)  placing  one  on  each  side  of  the 
table,  not  directly  opposite,  but  diagonally  or  slanting. 

Attempts  have  been  made  to  introduce  the  English  fashion, 
of  keeping  all  the  vegetables  on  the  side-table,  the  w^aiters 
bringing  each  one  separately  to  the  table,  as  it  may  be  asked 
for  by  any  person  that  wishes  it,  and  then  carrying  it  back 
again.  We  think  this  custom  too  tedious  and  too  troublesome 
to  become  very  general  in  America.  Unless  the  waiters  are 
very  alert,  and  amply  sufficient  in  number,  it  is  well  not  to  give 
them  any  unnecessary  addition  to  their  indispensable  business. 

Before  dinner,  let  the  cold  pastry  be  placed  in  the  side-board 
closet,  that  it  may  be  at  hand  when  wanted  for  the  table ;  or 
else,  if  the  pantry  is  close  to  the  dining  room,  it  may  be  set  out 
there,  covering  it  with  a  clean  cloth  to  keep  the  flies  from  it. 
Covers  of  fine  black  wire  net  are  very  useful  for  fruit  and 
sweetmeat  dishes. 

Boiled  puddings  are  always  eaten  warm,  and  should  not  be 
taken  out  of  the  pot,  till  a  few  minutes  before  they  go  to  table. 
When  the  family  are  nearly  ready  for  the  pudding,  the  waiter 
should  ring  the  bell  into  the  kitchen,  and  the  cook  will  send 
some  one,  or  come  herself,  to  meet  him  with  the  pudding,  at 
the  dining-room  door. 

In  placing  the  dishes,  see  that  they  are  all  set  perfectly 
straight  and  even,  and  that  each  has  near  it  the  proper  sauce 
or  gravy.  Afterwards  arrange  the  chairs  round  the  table ;  and 
if  it  is  winter,  put  the  chair-screens,  if  you  have  them,  on  those 
that  are  nearest  the  fire.  If  it  is  summer,  see  that  the  sashes 
are  raised,  and  the  Venetian  blinds  drawn  down,  turning  the 
slats,  so  as  to  make  the  room  sufficiently  light.  Then  give 
notice  that  dinner  is  ready,  either  by  ringing  the  dinner-bell, 
sounding  the  gong,  as  may  be  the  custom  of  the  family ;  or  by 
opening  the  drawing-room  door,  and  advancing  a  little  towards 


WAITING    ON  TABLE. 


the  lady  of  the  house,  and  bowing  to  her.  This  last  is  the 
most  usual  mode  of  announcement  when  there  is  company  to 
dinner. 

If  the  dinner  is  in  the  evening,  see  that  the  lamps,  candles, 
&c.,  are  all  in  good  order  before  you  place  them  on  the  table. 
The  table  should  be  very  well  lighted,  particularly  at  a  dinner 
party.  If  the  dinner  is  to  commence  in  daylight,  and  it  is  so 
late  in  the  afternoon  that  there  is  any  possibility  of  its  being 
protracted  till  after  sunset,  it  is  best  to  close  the  windows  and 
light  the  candles  at  once ;  as  it  is  extremely  uncomfortable  to 
have  the  company  overtaken  by  the  gloom  of  twilight,  and 
obliged  to  wait  almost  in  darkness  while  the  lights  are  prepar- 
ing. See  also  that  the  entry  lamp,  stair  lamps,  &c.,  are  lighted 
in  early  time ;  so  that  the  guests  may  have  no  difficulty  in 
finding  their  way,  and  that  the  servants  may  not  be  liable  to 
break  things  by  stumbling  with  them  in  the  dark. 


WAITING  ON  TABLE.— When  attending  on  table  you 
should  always  be  clean  and  neatly  drest ;  as  nothing,  at  such 
a  time,  is  more  disgusting  than  a  greasy,  slovenly,  shabby- 
looking  waiter.  A  good  waiter,  who  has  a  proper  respect  for 
himself  and  his  employers,  will  always  put  on  a  clean  collar 
before  dinner,  and  a  clean  white  apron ;  taking  care  that  no 
part  of  his  dress  is  either  dirty  or  ragged.  If  he  is  prudent  and 
sober,  his  wages  will  easily  enable  him  to  wear  decent  clothes 
on  week-days  as  well  as  on  Sunday.  There  are  domestics 
(women  as  well  as  men)  who  do  not  scruple  to  go  about  the 
house,  and  appear  before  the  family  and  their  visiters,  almost 
in  the  garb  of  beggars,  while  all  their  money  is  saved  for  the 
purchase  of  holiday  finery.  Against  this  disrespectful  and 
revolting  practice  the  head  of  the  family  should  at  least  try  the 


262 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


effect  of  remonstrance ;  for  if  passed  over  or  connived  at,  it  will 
grow  into  an  absolute  nuisance. 

For  a  waiter,  while  engaged  in  his  business,  a  round  jacket 
is  more  convenient  and  appropriate  than  a  long  coat ;  and  in 
summer  his  clothes  should  be  of  materials  that  will  wash. 
Shoes  are  more  convenient  for  him  than  boots,  as  they  are  less 
noisy;  and  being  lighter,  he  can  move  about  in  them  with  more 
alertness.  Presuming  it  to  be  a  clean  one,  his  shirt-collar 
should  always  appear  above  his  cravat  when  drest  for  waiting 
on  table ;  as  the  want  of  something  white  about  the  neck  will 
give  any  man  (even  a  gentleman)  a  dingy  and  dirty  appearance. 
When  attending  at  dinner,  he  should  have  on  his  hands  a  pair 
of  clean  white  cotton  gloves ;  always,  at  least,  if  there  is  com- 
pany. He  should  never  wait  at  table  without  a  small  server 
in  his  hand,  on  which  to  receive  or  carry  round  plates,  knives, 
vegetable  dishes,  the  bread-basket,  and  whatever  may  be 
wanted ;  arnd  in  the  other  hand  he  should  hold  a  napkin,  with 
which  to  take  hold  of  the  plates,  &c.,  when  changing  them. 
Whether  he  has  gloves  on  or  not,  the  napkin  ought  on  no 
account  to  be  omitted ;  and  he  should  hold  the  plate  by  the 
edge  of  the  rim  only.  We  have  seen  the  rim  of  a  plate  very 
disagreeably  marked  by  the  thumb  of  a  dirty-handed  waiter, 
who  had  no  napkin. 

The  master  of  the  house  will,  before  dinner,  have  given  you 
his  orders  respecting  the  wines. 

After  you  have  announced  the  dinner,  and  held  the  door  open 
till,  the  company  have  all  gone  into  the  dining-room,  shut  it, 
(unless  in  summer,)  and  after  they  are  seated,  take  off  the 
covers  of  the  soup  or  fish ;  and,  till  these  are  done  with,  leave 
the  other  dishes  covered.  When  the  soup  and  fish  are  removed, 
uncover  the  other  things,  beginning  at  the  bottom  dish  on  the 
left-hand  side.    In  taking  off  the  covers,  turn  them  up  quickly, 


WAITING    ON  TABLE. 


263 


that  the  drops  of  greasy  steam  on  the  inside  may  not  fall  on  the 
table-cloth.  Deposit  them  for  the  present  in  the  tray,  till  there 
is  an  opportunity  of  carrying  them  out. 

If  you  are  the  only  waiter,  take  your  station  at  the  bottom 
of  the  table,  about  a  yard  from  the  person  that  is  carving,  and 
a  little  to  the  left  of  his  chair :  this  will  give  you  an  opportu- 
nity of  seeing  what  is  wanted,  much  better  than  if  you  stood 
exactly  behind  him.  If  there  are  two  attendants,  the  second 
should  place  himself  in  the  same  manner  near  the  lady  of  the 
house.  If  there  are  four,  two  should  stand  at  the  sides  of  the 
table ;  not  exactly  opposite  to  each  other,  but  one  rather  nearer 
to  the  top,  the  other  somewhat  nearer  to  the  bottom.  All 
should  be  drest  as  nearly  as  possible  alike,  and  every  one 
should  have  a  white  apron,  white  gloves,  a  small  server  or 
hand-waiter,  (which  is  frequently  of  silver,)  and  a  napkin. 

Go  first  to  each  of  the  ladies,  and  in  a  low  voice  inquire  what 
you  shall  bring  them.  After  they  are  all  helped,  attend  to  the 
gentlemen.  When  you  hold  a  plate  to  the  carver,  stand  at  his 
left-hand ;  and  when  you  take  it  to  the  person  for  whom  it  is 
intended,  go  to  the  left  side  also.  Hand  nothing  to  any  one 
without  first  placing  it  on  your  small  server ;  and  always  go 
to  the  left  side,  except  when  you  are  filling  a  glass  with  water, 
cider,  or  beer ;  then  go  to  the  right,  as  the  tumbler  stands  on 
that  side ;  and  be  careful  that  you  do  not  pour  it  too  full,  so  as 
to  run  it  over  and  wet  the  cloth. 

After  every  one  has  been  helped  by  the  carvers,  take  the 
vegetable  dishes,  two  at  a  time,  on  your  hand-waiter,  and  carry 
them  round  to  each  of  the  company.  If  the  attendants  are 
alert,  and  sufficient  in  number,  there  will  be  no  occasion  for 
any  persons  at  table  to  offer,  or  to  require  being  helped  to  vege- 
tables, sauces,  &c.,  by  each  other :  and  no  lady  or  gentleman 
accustomed  to  dining  in  company,  will  have  any  hesitation 


THE    POUSE  BOOK. 


about  asking  the  domestics  for  whatever  they  want;  instead  of 
depending  on  the  services  of  their  friends,  or  waiting  awkwardly 
and  silently,  in  the  hope  that  some  one  may  chance  to  perceive 
their  destitution  and  come  to  their  relief. 

The  waiter,  however,  should  look  out  attentively,  and  when 
he  perceives  that  bread,  water,  sauce,  &c.,  is  wanted,  he  should 
bring  it,  even  without  being  told.  He  should  also  attend  par- 
ticularly to  any  very  young  or  evidently  inexperienced  persons, 
whose  diffidence  may  prevent  them  from  asking  for  themselves. 

When  you  perceive  that  all  the  company  have  done  with  the 
meat,  poultry,  &c.,  keep  your  eye  on  the  lady  of  the  house,  and 
she  will  make  a  sign  for  you  to  take  away  the  plates  and  remove 
the  dishes.  In  doing  so,  take  hold  of  the  dishes  firmly,  the 
larger  ones  in  both  hands,  and  see  that  you  lift  them  high 
enough  to  clear  the  glasses,  &c.  It  is  well  to  ring  the  bell 
first,  as  a  signal  for  the  cook  to  have  ready  the  pastry,  &c., 
which  in  America  is  generally  termed  the  dessert ;  though  in 
Europe  the  dessert  signifies  only  the  fruit  and  other  things  that 
are  put  on  the  table  with  the  wine,  after  the  cloth  is  removed. 

As  you  take  the  plates,  put  them  on  the  tray  or  on  the  side- 
table,  if  you  have  no  plate-basket;  and  deposit  the  knives  in 
the  knife-tray  or  knife-basket,  which  should  be  made  with  a 
division  for  the  forks.  Do  all  this  expeditiously,  and  without 
noise.  Then  take  a  fork  in  one  hand,  and  a  large  plate  in  the 
other,  and  go  round  and  collect  all  the  pieces  of  bread  that  may 
be  left  on  the  table.  Next,  take  your  crumb-brush  and  a  small 
server,  and  go  round  and  brush  off  all  the  crumbs.  When  there 
is  dinner  company,  it  is  very  customary  to  spread  two  damask 
cloths  on  the  table,  the  upper  one  to  be  taken  off  and  carried 
away,  after  the  meat,  &c.,  is  removed;  leaving-  beneath  it  a 
clean  one  for  the  pastry  and  confectionary.  When  you  bring 
in  these  articles,  arrange  them  so  as  to  look  handsomely,  placing 


WAITING    ON  TABLE. 


265 


in  the  centre  of  the  table  the  largest  and  most  conspicuous. 
Peside  a  dessert  plate  and  a  small  knife  and  fork,  set,  if  neces- 
sary, a  saucer  and  a  spoon  to  each  person.  At  this  time  there 
should  always  be  on  the  table  small  vessels  of  glass  or  silver, 
containing  powdered  loaf-sugar,  with  a  little  sugar  ladle  in  each, 
in  case  any  of  the  articles  should  require  more  sweetening. 

The  usual  time  for  eating  salad  or  lobster  is  between  the 
meat  and  the  pastry.  These  things  are  generally  drest  by  some 
one  at  table,  (frequently  a  tedious  business,)  and  handed  round 
to  the  company.  It  is,  perhaps,  more  convenient  to  have  them 
drest  immediately  before  diimer,  and  brought  to  table  in  a  large 
glass  bowl. 

This  also  is  the  usual  time  for  eating  cheese. 

When  the  company  have  done  with  the  confectionary,  the 
finger  glasses  should  be  brought  on  hand-waiters,  setting  one 
glass  before  each  person ;  after  which,  the  napkins  having  been 
returned  to  the  table,  remove  them  all. 

Finally,  clear  every  thing  oiF  the  table ;  and,  turning  up  the 
cloth  all  round,  take  it  up  by  the  edges,  and  carry  it  away  to 
be  shaken  out.  Then  put  on  the  wine,  fruit,  and  cake,  with 
the  powdered  sugar,  in  case  it  should  be  wanted.  Set  for  every 
person  a  small  plate,  a  fruit  knife,  (those  made  for  the  purpose 
are  generally  of  silver,)  a  nut-picker,  and  a  doily  for  the  fingers. 
The  nuts  should  be  cracked  before  they  are  brought  to  table, 
and  done  carefully,  so  as  to  divide  them  in  half,  and  not  crush 
them  to  atoms. 

Set  on  the  wines  and  fruit  so  as  to  match  cross-comers,  and 
the  large  cake  in  the  centre ;  and  place  on  the  table  one  or  more 
pitchers  of  ice-water,  standing  on  small  waiters,  with  a  few 
tumblers  round  them.  If  in  summer,  set  on  also  the  saucers 
of  broken  up  ice.  Remove  the  things  from  the  side-table  with 
-  as  little  noise  as  possible ;  after  which  you  may  leave  the 

23 


266 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


dining-room,  as  your  services  will  be  no  longer  required  there. 
Let  the  articles  on  the  side-board  remain  undisturbed  till  after 
the  company  has  adjourned  to  the  drawing-room,  or  departed. 

During  dinner,  some  one  should  see  that  the  drawing-room 
fire  is  burning  well,  and,  if  it  is  evening,  that  the  lamps  are 
lighted,  both  there  and  on  the  way  thither. 

In  the  mean  time  you  may  see  to  the  washing  of  the  glasses, 
silver,  &c. ;  counting  all  the  articles  of  plate,  and  putting  them 
away  carefully. 

At  dinner  parties  of  gentlemen  only,  it  is  usual  to  have  coffee 
brought  in  when  they  have  sat  a  certain  time  over  the  wine  and 
fruit.  The  coffee  must  be  made  very  strong  and  clear,  and 
handed  round  on  a  waiter  with  the  sugar  dish  and  milk  jug : 
nothing  is  eaten  with  it.  The  time  for  bringing  it  in  will  be 
denoted  by  an  order  from  the  mistress  of  the  house,  or  by  the 
master  ringing  the  dining-room  bell.  After  coffee  the  gentle- 
men usually  depart.  If  there  are  ladies  at  the  dinner,  they  will 
leave  the  table  with  their  hostess  when  she  makes  the  signal, 
and  remain  with  her  in  the  drawing-room,  where  she  will  send 
for  the  gentlemen  to  join  them  at  tea-  The  waiter  will  then 
be  wanted  to  carry  round  the  tea  and  coffee. 

When  the  dining-room  is  vacated  by  the  gentlemen,  let  the 
table  be  cleared  as  soon  as  possible,  and  wiped  clean ;  putting 
the  wine,  &c.,  carefully  away. 

With  regard  to  desserts  at  dinner  parties,  a  very  excellent 
fashion  prevails  in  some  parts  of  the  old  world,  which  might 
be  introduced  to  much  advantage  in  the  new ;  particularly  in 
warm  weather,  and  in  large  houses  where  there  is  no  want  of 
rooms.  It  is  to  have  a  separate  table  for  the  dessert,  set  out  in 
another  apartment,  (generally  one  opening  into  the  garden.) 
When  the  company  have  finished  the  meats,  &c,,  they  are  con- 
ducted into  the  cool  fresh  dessert-room,  and  take  their  seats  at 


WA ITING    ON  TABLE. 


26T 


the  table,  where  there  has  been  time  and  opportunity  to  arrange 
the  articles  of  confectionary  so  as  to  produce  a  much  more  ele- 
gant effect  than  when  brought  in  one  at  a  time  to  replace  the 
dishes  that  have  just  been  removed.  Meanwhile,  the  first  table 
can  be  cleared  completely,  and  with  more  convenience  than 
when  done  in  presence  of  the  company. 

Another  advantage  of  havfng  the  dessert  table  set  out  in 
another  room  is,  that  it  gives  the  guests  an  opportunity  of 
changing  partners. 

The  preparations  for  a  dinner  party  should  be  commenced 
the  day  before.  The  waiter  should  have  a  bill  of  fare  given  to 
him  in  time,  that  he  may  know  what  arrangements  to  make  in 
his  department. 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  foregoing  directions  for  waiting  on 
table  refer  particularly  (but  not  exclusively)  to  large  dinners. 
Any  waiter  that  is  clever  in  his  attendance  on  company,  will 
be  equally  so  when  his  services  are  required  on  a  smaller  scale, 
and  when  there  are  none  at  table  but  the  family.  In  genteel 
houses  the  arrangements  of  a  family  dinner  should  be  so  con- 
ducted, that  the  waiter,  being  accustomed  every  day  to  setting 
the  table  nicely,  and  waiting  on  it  properly,  will  not  feel  the 
least  at  a  loss  when  he  is  required  to  do  so  for  company.  If 
the  family  fall  into  the  habit  of  waiting  on  themselves  when 
they  are  alone,  the  domestics  (besides  losing  some  of  their 
respect  for  them)  soon  get  out  of  practice  :  and  when  there  are 
strangers  at  dinner,  become  so  bewildered  and  awkward  as  fre- 
quently to  cause  much  vexation. 

Some  families  wish  to  dispense  with  the  presence  of  servants 
at  meal-times,  considering  them  a  restraint  on  the  freedom  of 
conversation.  When  this  is  the  case,  the  little  round  tables 
called  dumb^-waiters  are  very  useful,'  placing  one  of  them  behind 
every  two  persons.    On  these  are  pleiced  clean  plates,  knives, 


268 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK 


forks,  and  whatever  may  be  wanted ;  and  each  has  a  shelf 
below,  on  which  to  set  away  the  dirty  plates,  &c. 

CARVING. — The  seat  for  the  carver  should  be  somewhat 
elevated  above  the  other  chairs  :  it  is  extremely  ungraceful  to 
carve  standing,  and  it  is  rarely  done  by  any  person  accustomed 
to  the  business.  Carving-  depends  more  on  skill  than  on 
strength.  We  have  seen  very  small  women  carve  admirably 
sitting  down ;  and  very  tall  men  who  knew  not  how  to  cut  a 
piece  of  beef-steak  without  rising  on  their  feet  to  do  it. 

The  carving  knife  should  be  very  sharp,  and  not  heavy ;  and 
it  should  be  held  firmly  in  the  hand :  also  the  dish  should  be 
not  too  far  from  the  carver.  It  is  customary  to  help  the  fish 
with  a  fish  trowel,  and  not  with  a  knife.  The  middle  part  of 
a  fish  is  generally  considered  the  best.  In  helping  it,  avoid 
breaking  the  flakes,  as  that  will  give  it  a  mangled  appearance. 

In  carving  ribs  or  sirloin  of  beef,  begin  by  cutting  thin  slices 
oflf  the  side  next  to  you.  Afterwards  you  may  cut  from  the 
tender-loin,  or  cross-part  near  the  lower  end.  Do  not  send  any 
one  the  outside  piece,  unless  you  know  that  they  particularly 
wish  it. 

In  helping  beef-steak,  put  none  of  the  bone  on  the  plate. 

In  cutting  a  round  of  corned  beef,  begin  at  the  top ;  but  lay 
aside  the  first  cut  or  outside  piece,  and  send  it  to  no  one,  as  it 
is  always  dry  and  hard.  In  a  round  of  a-la-mode  beef,  the  out- 
side is  frequently  preferred. 

In  a  leg  of  mutton,  begin  across  the  middle,  cutting  the 
slices  quite  down  to  the  bone.  The  same  with  a  leg  of  pork 
or  a  ham.  The  latter  should  be  cut  in  very  thin  slices,  as  its 
flavour  is  spoiled  when  cut  thick. 

To  taste  well,  a  tongue  should  be  cut  crossways  in  round 
slices.    Cutting  it  lengthways  (though  the  practice  at  many 


CARVING. 


269 


tables)  injures  the  flavour.  The  middle  part  of  the  tongue  is 
the  best.  Do  not  help  any  one  to  a  piece  of  the  root ;  that, 
being  by  no  means  a  favourite  part,  is  generally  left  in  the  dish. 

In  carving  a  fore-quarter  of  lamb,  first  separate  the  shoulder 
.part  from  the  breast  and  ribs,  by  passing  the  knife  under,  and 
then  divide  the  ribs.  If  the  lamb  is  large,  have  another  dish 
brought,  to  put  the  shoulder  in. 

For  a  loin  of  veal,  begin  near  the  smallest  end,  and  separate 
the  ribs ;  helping  a  part  of  the  kidney  (as  far  as  it  will  go) 
with  each  piece.  Carve  a  loin  of  pork  or  mutton  in  the  same 
manner. 

In  carving  a  fillet  of  veal,  begin  at  the  top.  Many  persons 
prefer  the  first  cut  or  outside  piece.  Help  a  portion  of  the 
stuffing  with  each  slice. 

In  a  breast  of  veal,  there  are  two  parts  very  different  in 
quality,  the  ribs  and  the  brisket.  You  will  easily  perceive  the 
division;  enter  your  knife  at  it,  and  cut  through,  which  will 
separate  the  two  parts.  Ask  the  persons  you  are  going  to  help, 
whether  they  prefer  a  rib,  or  a  piece  of  the  brisket. 

For  a  haunch  of  venison,  first  make  a  deep  incision,  by  pass- 
ing your  knife  all  along  the  side,  cutting  quite  down  to  the 
bone.  This  is  to  let  out  the  gravy.  Then  turn  the  broad  end 
of  the  haunch  towards  you,  and  cut  it  as  deep  as  you  can  in 
thin,  smooth  slices,  allowing  some  of  the  fat  to  each  person. 

For  a  saddle  of  venison,  or  of  mutton,  cut  from  the  ta^  to 
the  other  end  on  each  side  of  the  back-bone,  making  very  thin 
slices,  and  sending  some  fat  with  each.  Venison  and  roast 
mutton  chill  very  soon,  therefore  it  is  usual  to  eat  it  with  iron 
heaters  under  the  plates.  Some  heaters  are  made  to  contain 
hot  coals,  others  are  kept  warm  with  boiling  water,  and  some 
are  heated  by  spirits  of  wine ;  the  last  is  a  very  exceptionable 

mode,  as  the  blue  blaze  flaming  out  all  round  the  plate,  is  to 
•23  ♦ 


270 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


many  persons  frightful.  Currant  jelly  is  an  indispensable 
appendage  to  venison,  and  to  roast  mutton,  and  to  ducks. 

A  young  pig  is  most  generally  divided  before  it  comes  to 
table,  in  which  case,  it  is  not  customary  to  send  in  the  head, 
as  to  many  persons  it  is  a  revolting  spectacle  after  it  is  cut  off. 
When  served  up  whole,  first  separate  the  head  from  the  shoul- 
ders, then  cut  off  the  limbs,  and  then  divide  the  ribs.  Help 
some  of  the  stuffing  with  each  piece. 

To  carve  a  fowl,  begin  by  sticking  your  fork  in  the  pinion, 
and  drawing  it  towards  the  leg ;  and  then  passing  your  knife 
underneath,  take  olF  the  wing  at  the  joint.  Next,  slip  your 
knife  between  the  leg  and  the  body,  to  cut  through  the  joint; 
and  with  the  fork,  turn  the  leg  back,  and  the  joint  will  give 
way.  Then  take  off  the  other  wing  and  leg.  If  the  fowl  has 
been  trussed  (as  it  ought  to  be)  with  the  liver  and  gizzard, 
help  the  liver  with  one  wing,  and  the  gizzard  with  the  other. 
The  liver  wing  is  considered  the  best.  After  the  limbs  are 
taken  off,  enter  your  knife  into  the  top  of  the  breast,  and  cut 
under  the  merry-thought,  so  as  to  loosen  it,  lifting  it  with  your 
fork.  Afterwards  cut  slices  from  both  sides  of  the  breast. 
Next  take  off  the  collar-bones,  which  lie  on  each  side  of  the 
merry-thought,  and  then  separate  the  side-bones  from  the  back. 
The  breast  and  wings  are  considered  as  the  most  delicate  parts 
of  the  fowl ;  the  back,  as  the  least  desirable,  is  generally  left 
in  the  dish.  Some  persons,  in  carving  a  fowl,  find  it  more 
convenient  to  take  it  on  a  plate,  and  as  they  separate  it,  return 
each  part  to  the  dish ;  but  this  is  riot  now  the  usual  way. 

A  turkey  is  carVed  in  the  same  manner  as  a  fowl ;  except 
that  the  legs  and  wings  being  larger,  are  separated  at  the  lower 
joint.  The  lower  part  of  the  leg,  (or  drumstick,  as  it  is  called,) 
being  hard,  tough,  and  stringy,  is  never  helped  to  any  one,  but 
allowed  to  remain  on  the  dish.    First  cut  off  the  wing,  leg. 


CARVING. 


271 


and  breast  from  one  side ;  then  turn  the  turkey  over,  and  cut 
them  off  from  the  other. 

To  carve  a  goose,  separate  the  leg  from  the  body,  by  putting 
the  fork  into  the  small  end  of  the  limb  ;  pressing  it  close  to 
the  body,  and  then  passing  the  knife  under,  and  turning  the  leg 
back,  as  you  cut  through  the  joint.  To  take  off  the  wing,  put 
your  fork  into  the  small  end  of  the  pinion,  and  press  it  closely 
to  the  body  ;  then  slip  the  knife  under,  and  separate  the  joint. 
Next  cut  under  the  merry-thought,  and  take  it  off;  and  then 
cut  slices  from  the  breast.  Then  turn  the  goose,  and  dismem- 
ber the  other  side.  Take  off  the  two  upper  side-bones,  that 
are  next  to  the  wings;  and  then  the  two  lower  side-bones. 
The  breast  and  legs  of  a  goose  afford  the  finest  pieces.  If  a 
goose  is  old,  there  is  no  fowl  eo  tough ;  and  if  difficult  to  carve, 
it  will  be  still  more  difficult  to  eat. 

Partridges,  pheasants,  grouse,  &c.,  are  carved  in  the  same 
manner  as  fowls.  Quails,  woodcocks,  and  snipes  are  merely 
split  down  the  back ;  so  also  are  pigeons,  giving  a  half  to  each 
person. 

In  helping  any  one  to  gravy,  or  to  melted  butter,  do  not  pour 
it  over  their  meat,  fowl,  or  fish,  but  put  it  to  one  side  on  a 
vacant  part  of  the  plate,  that  they  may  use  just  as  much  of  it 
as  they  like.  In  filling  a  plate,  never  heap  one  thing  on 
another. 

In  helping  vegetables,  do  not  plunge  the  spoon  down  to  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  in  case  they  should  not  have  been  perfectly 
well  drained,  and  the  water  should  have  settled  there. 

By  observing  carefully  how  it  is  done,  you  may  acquire  a 
knowledge  of  the  joints,  and  of  the  process  of  carving,  wliich 
a  little  daily  practice  will  soon  convert  into  dexterity.  If  a 
young  lady  is  ignorant  of  this  very  useful  art,  it  will  be  well 
for  her  to  take  lessons  of  her  father,  or  her  brother;  and  a 


372 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


married  lady  can  easily  learn  from  her  husband.  Domestics 
who  wait  at  table  may  soon,  from  looking  on  daily,  become  so 
expert  that,  when  necessary,  they  can  take  a  dish  to  the  side- 
table  and  carve  it  perfectly  well. 

At  a  dinner  party,  if  the  hostess  is  quite  young,  she  is  fre- 
quently glad  to  be  relieved  of  the  trouble  of  carving  by  the 
gentleman  who  sits  nearest  to  her;  but  if  she  is  familiar  with 
the  business,  she  usually  prefers  doing  it  herself. 

TO  DRAW  POULTRY,  &c.— -Though  to  prepare  poultry 
for  cooking  is  by  no  means  an  agreeable  business,  yet  some 
knowledge  of  it  may  be  very  useful  to  the  mistress  of  a  house, 
in  case  she  should  have  occasion  to  instruct  a  servant  in  the 
manner  of  doing  it ;  or  in  the  possible  event  of  her  being  obliged 
10  do  it  herself;  for  instance,  if  her  cook  has  been  suddenly 
taken  ill,  or  has  left  her  unexpectedly. 

As  all  poultry  is,  of  course,  drawn  in  the  same  manner,  it 
will  be  sutEcient  to  designate  the  mode  of  emptying  the  inside 
of  a  fowl.  In  winter,  if  the  fowl  is  frozen,  lay  it  before  the 
fire  till  it  has  completely  thawed.  Then  have  ready  one  or 
more  large  pieces  of  waste  paper,  rolled  up  loosely  into  a  long 
wisp  ;  lay  the  fowl  down  on  a  clean  part  of  the  hearth,  and, 
taking  its  legs  in  your  hand,  light  the  paper,  and  pass  it  back 
and  forward  above  the  surface  of  the  skin,  (turning  the  fowl  on 
both  sides,)  so  as  to  singe  off  all  the  hairs;  doing  it  so  carefully 
as  not  to  burn  or  scorch  the  skin.  There  should  always  be  a 
quantity  of  old  newspapers,  or  other  waste  paper,  kept  in  a 
closet  or  drawer  of  the  kitchen  for  this  and  other  purposes. 
Next,  lay  the  fowl  upon  its  back  on  a  clean  old  waiter  or  tray, 
(such  as  should  be  kept  in  every  kitchen,)  and  with  a  large 
sharp  knife  cut  off,  first  the  head,  and  then  the  legs  at  the  first 
joint.    The  next  thing  is  to  cut  a  very  long  slit  in  the  skin  at 


DRAWING    POULTRY,    ETC.  27S 

the  right  side  of  the  neck,  and  with  your  fingers  strip  down  the 
skin  towards  the  shoulders,  till  you  come  to  the  craw,  which 
you  must  take  out  with  your  hand.  Then  with  your  knife 
make  two  long  deep  cuts  or  incisions  on  each  side  of  the  body, 
going  downward  towards  the  tail.  Put  your  hand  into  the  cut 
or  orifice  on  the  right  side,  and  pull  out  the  heart,  liver,  gizzard, 
and  then  the  entrails.  Take  care  not  to  break  the  gall-bag,  or 
its  liquor  will  run  over  the  liver,  and  make  it  so  bitter  that  it 
cannot  be  eaten,  and  should  therefore  be  thrown  away  without 
cooking.  Next,  to  flatten  the  body,  break  the  breast-bone  by 
striking  on  it  hard  with  your  hand.  Then  tuck  the  legs  into 
the  lower  part  of  the  slits  that  you  have  cut  on  each  side  of  the 
body.  Afterwards  with  your  hand  bend  or  curve  inwards  the 
end  of  the  neck-bone,  and  tuck  it  away  under  the  long  loose 
piece  of  skin  left  there.  After  this,  lay  the  fowl  in  a  small  tub 
of  cold  water,  and  wash  it  well  inside  and  out :  then  dry  it  with 
a  clean  towel. 

Next,  cut  open  the  gizzard,  empty  it  of  the  sand  and  gravel, 
and  take  out  the  thick  inside  skin.  Split  open  the  heart,  and 
let  out  the  blood  that  is  in  it.  Then  carefully  cut  the  gall-bag 
from  the  liver,  so  as  not  to  break  it.  Wash  clean  the  heart, 
liver,  and  gizzard,  (having  trimmed  them  neatly,)  and  return 
the  heart  to  the  inside  of  the  breast ;  putting  back  also  the  eggs, 
if  you  have  found  any.  Have  ready  the  stuflang,  and  fill  up 
with  it  the  vacancy  from  which  you  have  taken  the  craw,  &c., 
pressing  it  in  hard.  Next,  taking  between  your  thumb  and 
finger  the  above-mentioned  piece  of  skin  at  the  top  of  the  neck, 
draw  it  down  tightly  towards  the  back  of  the  fowl,  (folding  it 
nicely  over  the  bent  end  of  the  neck-bone,)  and  fasten  it  down 
between  the  shoulders  with  a  skewer,  which  must  he  stuck  in  so 
as  to  go  lengthways  down  the  back.  This  will  prevent  any  of 
the  stuffing  from  getting  out,  and  will  keep  all  compact  and  nice. 


274 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Then  run  a  skewer  through  both  the  wings  and  the  upper 
part  of  the  body,  tucking  in  the  liver  so  as  to  appear  from  under 
the  right  pinion,  and  the  gizzard  (scoring  it  first)  on  the  left. 
Both  pinions  must  be  bent  upwards.  Lastly,  secure  all  by 
tying  two  strings  of  small  twine  tightly  round  the  fowl ;  one 
just  above  the  skewer  that  confines  the  legs ;  the  other  just 
below  that  which  passes  through  the  wings. 

Of  course,  the  strings  and  skewers  are  removed  before  the 
poultry  is  sent  to  table. 

Turkeys,  geese,  and  ducks  are  always  trussed  in  this  manner, 
the  legs  being  cut  off  at  the  first  joint.  So  are  fowls  for  boiling. 
But  when  fowls  are  to  be  roasted,  some  cooks  leave  on  the 
whole  of  the  legs  and  feet,  (scraping  and  washing  them  clean,) 
and  drawing  the  feet  up  quite  to  the  breast,  where  they  are  tied 
together  by  a  string. 

Pigeons,  pheasants,  partridges,  &c.,  are  all  trussed  as  above, 
with  the  legs  short. 

To  draw  a  little  roasting  pig,  cut  the  body  open  by  one  long 
slit,  and  before  you  take  out  what  is  inside,  loosen  it  all  with 
a  sharp  knife ;  then  extract  it  with  your  hands.  Empty  the 
head  also.  Afterwards  wash  the  animal  clean,  (inside  and  out,) 
and  fill  the  vacancy  with  stuffing.  Having  bent  the  knees 
under,  skewer  the  legs  to  the  body,  and  secure  the  stuffing  by 
tying  twine  tightly  several  times  round  the  body ;  first  fasten- 
ing the  slit  by  pinning  it  with  a  wooden  skewer.  Having 
boiled  the  liver  and  heart,  chop  them  to  enrich  the  gravy. 

THE  BREAKFAST  TABLE— If  preparing  the  breakfast 
table  in  winter,  first  see  that  the  fire  is  good  and  the  hearth 
clean.  If  in  summer,  that  the  butter  and  cream  are  cooling  in 
the  ice.  If  you  have  no  ice,  they  may  be  cooled  by  standing 
in  a  vessel  of  cold  pump-water.  In  warm  weather,  some  fami- 


THE    BREAKFAST  TABLE. 


275 


lies  have  fresh  fruit  on  the  breakfast  table,  such  as  currants, 
strawberries,  raspberries,  &c.  If  produced  in  the  garden,  they 
should  be  gathered  early,  divested  of  the  stems,  put  into  deep 
dishes,  sprinkled  with  powdered  white  sugar,  and  set  on  ice, 
or  in  some  cold  place. 

Having  removed  the  coloured  table  cover,  (if  there  is  one,) 
and  wiped  the  table  with  a  duster,  spread  on  the  white  cloth 
as  evenly  as  possible,  observing  that  the  centre  crease  of  its 
folds  is  exactly  in  the  centre  of  the  table.  Then  place  the  large 
japanned  waiter  at  the  head  of  the  table,  and  put  on  it  a  cup, 
saucer,  and  tea-spoon  for  each  person,  and  a  small  pile  of  three 
or  four  extra  ones,  in  case  they  should  chance  to  be  wanted. 
Put  the  tea-spoons  at  the  right-hand  side  of  the  cup.  Back  of 
the  cups  and  saucers,  set  the  sugar-dish  on  the  right-hand,  and 
the  cream-pot  on  the  left,  with  the  slop-bowl  in  the  centre ; 
leaving  a  place  behind  for  the  colTee-pot  or  tea-pot.  If  there  is 
an  urn,  its  place  is  beyond  the  waiter ;  and  there  should  be  a 
stand  for  it,  either  of  worsted  work  or  of  oil-cloth.  If  the 
spout  is  inconveniently  low,  (as  is  sometimes  the  case,)  the 
urn  may  be  elevated  by  a  stand  made  of  a  thick  block  of  wood, 
nicely  finished,  and  painted  and  varnished  in  imitation  of  ma- 
hogany or  black  walnut.  The  spout  of  the  tea-um  should  be 
immediately  over  the  tea-pot.  If  there  is  a  cofFee-urn,  the  cups, 
of  course,  are  filled  directly  from  it. 

In  preparing  the  urn,  see  that  the  heater  is  put  into  the  fire 
in  time  to  become  red-hot.  When  you  put  it  into  the  cylinder, 
take  care  not  to  drop  it  down  too  hard  and  heavy,  or  you  may 
'  break  the  bottom  of  the  urn.  There  should  be  a  long  iron  rod 
with  a  hook  at  the  end,  for  the  purpose  of  lifting  the  heater. 
The  water  or  the  coffee  must  always  be  boiling  hot  at  the  time 
you  pour  it  into  the  urn,  and  it  must  always  be  filled  to  a  level 
with  the  heater,  which  otherwise  may  bum  the  top  and  sides. 


276 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


An  urn  should  be  washed  out  every  day,  and  wiped  dry  inside; 
as,  if  left  damp,  it  will  be  apt  to  get  musty.  An  urn  that  is 
put  by  for  any  length  of  time  should,  while  out  of  use,  be  kept 
filled  with  clean  waste  paper :  not  newspapers,  however,  or 
any  sort  that  is  printed.  It  is  well  to  have  a  green  baize  cover 
for  your  urns,  as  it  will  preserve  them  from  dust  and  damp,  and 
from  injury  by  the  flies. 

In  some  families,  a  bright  tea-kettle  on  a  chafing-dish,  to 
stand  on  the  hearth,  is  used  instead  of  a  water-urn.  In  this 
case,  see  that  the  chafing-dish  is  well  filled  with  clear  glowing 
coals,  free  from  ashes ;  and  that  the  water  is  boiling  hard  at 
the  time  the  kettle  is  filled.  It  should  be  brought  in  about  ten 
minutes  before  the  breakfast  hour,  that  the  tea  made  with  it 
may  have  time  to  draw.  Scald  the  pot  twice  before  the  tea  is 
put  in. 

After  you  have  set  the  cups,  place  round  the  table  the  plates, 
knives,  and  forks,  leaving  a  few  extra  ones  on  the  side-board. 
If  they  are  used  in  the  family,  do  not  forget  to  set  round  the 
little  cup-plates.  Lay  also  a  napkin  for  each  person.  Place 
the  castor  in  the  centre  of  the  table,  and  the  eggs  just  behind 
it.  If  a  tin  or  silver  egg-boiler  is  used  on  the  table,  it  should 
be  filled  in  the  kitchen  with  water  that  is  boiling.  Then  put 
in  the  eggs,  which  ought  first  to  be  wiped  clean; -for,  though 
the  outside  is  not  eaten,  if  dirty  they  look  disagreeably.  In 
three  or  four  minutes  pour  ofi"  the  first  water,  (which  will  have 
become  chilled  by  the  coldness  of  the  eggs,)  and  fill  up  the  tin 
with  some  more  that  is  boiling  hard.  Then  shut  up  the  covers, 
and  the  eggs  will  finish  their  boiling  on  the  table. 

When  egg-cups  are  used,  they  are  generally  of  china,  or  else 
of  silver,  gilt  inside.  The  egg  is  set  into  the  cup,  and,  having 
broken  the  large  end  by  striking  it  with  a  spoon,  it  is  eaten  out 
of  the  shell.  Another  way  is  to  have  egg-glasses,  and  to  empty 


THE     BREAKFAST  TABLE. 


277 


into  the  glass  the  contents  of  the  egg-.  Spoons  for  the 
should  be  laid  beside  all  the  plates.  Have  two  salt-cellars; 
and,  as  there  should^be  a  plate  of  butter  on  each  side  of  the 
table,  put  two  butter-knives.  Butter  for  breakfast  looks  very 
nicely  if  made  into  round  pats  and  printed  with  a  small  butter 
print.  On  the  top,  if  the  weather  is  warm,  should  be  laid  a 
piece  of  clear  bright  ice.  There  are  small,  covered,  deep  dishes 
of  china  or  glass,  purposely  for  holding  the  butter  when  brought 
to  table.  There  are  similar  covered  dishes  for  cheese.  For 
whatever  meat  or  fish  may  be  at  breakfast,  lay  a  knife,  fork, 
and  spoon  to  help  it  witli ;  and  place  mats  for  the  hot  dishes, 
which  should  be  brought  in  with  covers.  Do  not  cut  the  bread 
too  thin,  and  see  that  a  sufiiciency  of  it  is  put  on  at  once.  If 
there  are  hot  cakes,  let  them  be  brought  to  the  door,  and  there 
■delivered  to  the  waiter;  for  it  will  be  very  inconvenient  to  have 
him  continually  going  in  and  out  for  them.  Of  batter  cakes, 
it  is  well  to  begin  with  four  on  each  plate;  otherwise  the  inter- 
vals between  the  arrival  of  the  fresh  supplies  will  be  quite  too 
long  for  persons  with  good  appetites,  or  who  may  have  but 
little  time  to  remain  at  table. 

The  domestic  that  attends  at  breakfast  should  (as  at  dinner) 
have  a  napkin  and  a  small  waiter,  with  which  to  hand  every 
thmg.  It  is  the  custom  in  many  houses  (and  a  very  good  one) 
to  send  round  the  sugar  and  cream,  that  each  person  may  use 
them  according  to  his  own  taste.  The  custom  of  putting  hrown 
sugar  in  coffee  is  now  exploded  in  almost  all  families  that  live 
genteelly. 

The  coffee  should  on  no  consideration  be  thick  and  muddy. 
It  IS  not  well  to  roast  more  than  a  pound  at  a  time,  as  it  loses " 
Its  strength  by  keeping.  Previous  to  roasting,  it  should  be 
washed  through  three  waters,  and  then  dried  before  the  fire. 
Then  put  it  into  the  coffee-roaster ;  (an  iron  cylinder,  standing 
24 


278 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


horizontally  on.feet  before  the  fire,  and  turned  round  occasion- 
ally by  a  handle.)  If  you  have  not  one  of  these  convenient 
articles,  you  must  substitute  an  iron  pot  or  skillet ;  or  you  may 
do  the  coffee  in  a  tin  pan,  set  in  the  oven  of  a  hot  stove. 
Whatever  it  may  be  roasted  in,  it  must  be  stirred  frequently, 
and  done  of  a  fine  dark  brown,  not  black ;  putting  among  it, 
while  roasting,  a  table-spoonful  of  butter.  By  the  time  it  is 
taken  from  the  fire,  have  ready  for  one  quart  of  coffee  the  white 
of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  gradually  mix  it  with  the 
coffee,  after  it  has  been  poured  out  into  an  earthen  pan,  and 
while  it  is  cooling.  It  must  not  be  hot  enough  to  turn  the  egg 
white.  This  will  give  the  coffee  sufficient  clearness  when 
ground %nd  made;  and  precludes  the  necessity  of  putting  in 
isinglass  or  white  of  egg  every  morning.  If  it  is  necessary  to 
roast  a  larger  quantity  at  once,  you  will  find  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  sufficient  for  four  quarts  of  coffee. 

If  there  are  both  fish  and  meat  on  the  breakfast  table,  see  to 
have  at  hand  a  sufficient  supply  of  clean  plates,  knives,  and 
forks,  \}i  case  any  of  the  company  should  choose  to  eat  of  both. 
At  breakfast,  as  at  dinner,  things  should  be  so  arranged  that 
the  waiter  will  have  no  occasion  to  leave  the  room.  If  there 
is  cold  ham,  let  it  be  sliced  extremely  thin.  Ham  for  broiling 
or  frying  should,  early  in  the  morning,  or  the  night  before,  have 
the  saltness  taken  out  by  scalding  the  slices  several  times  in 
boiling  water,  letting  it  soak  in  each  till  the  water  cools  

Half  an  hour  before  breakfast,  the  waiter  should  ring  his 
hand  bell,  to  give  notice  that  the  time  is  approaching;  and 
when  every  thing  is  on  the  table,  and  the  lady  of  the  house 
ready  to  take  her  seat,  he  should  ring  it  again.  His  station  at 
breakfast  is  behind  her  chair,  a  little  to  the  right.  He  is  first 
to  hand  round  the  cups  of  tea  or  coffee,  one  at  a  time,  on  his 
waiter.    Next,  beginning  with  the  ladies,  he  is  to  carry  their 


THE  TKA-TABLE. 


279 


plates  for  whatever  they  may  wish  to  have,  and  to  hand  round 
the  bread,  warm  cajtes,  &c.,  keeping  a  look-out  during  the 
whole  repast,  to  see  what  may  be  wanted.  A  good  waiter  will 
pride  himself  on  getting  through  his  business  properly  and 
expeditiously,  without  being  continually  reminded  of  it.  As 
soon  as  the  family  have  quitted  the  table,  (and  not  till  then,) 
he  must  begin  to  fold  up  the  napkins  and  put  them  away,  and 
set  back  the  chairs,  remove  every  thing  that  has  been  used, 
shake  out  and  fold  up  the  cloth,  and  restore  the  room  to  order. 
In  ill-managed  houses,  or  where  there  are  bad  servants,  we 
have  seen  a  breakfast  table  left  standing  with  the  cloth,  &c., 
upon  it  till  near  dinner-time. 


THE  TEA-TABLE  The  manner  of  preparing  a  tea-table 

differs  but  little  from  that  of  breakfast.  The  kettle  should  be 
put  on  at  least  half  an  hour  before,  with  a  sufficiently  good 
fire  under  it ;  but  it  is  not  necessary,  as  is  the  practice  with 
many  inconsiderate  servants,  to  make  up,  in  a  summer  after- 
noon, as  large  a  fire  to  boil  the  tea-kettle  as  would  be  neces- 
sary for  cooking  a  dinner.  Unless  it  is  put  on  early  enough, 
the  tea  may  be  retarded  by  having  to  wait  for  it  to  boil.  Some 
servants  think  that  if  the  kettle  has  once  boiled,  that  is  suffi- 
cient ;  and  they  will  take  it  down,  or  allow  the  fire  to  diminish 
under  it,  so  that,  at  the  time  the  water  is  wanted  to  pour  on 
the  tea,  instead  of  being  boiling  hot,  it  is  only  luke-warm  ;  in 
which  case,  if  even  half  a  pound  of  tea  was  put  into  the  pot, 
it  would  be  weak,  flat,  and  tasteless. 

In  many  families,  a  white  table-cloth  is  not  used  at  tea.  If 
the  coloured  cloth  is  of  cotton,  and  dark,  it  may  do  very  well, 
as  it  can  easily  be  washed.  But  a  woollen  cloth  on  a  tea-table 
is  not  agreeable,  either  to  the  sight,  touch,  or  smell ;  the  grease. 


280 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


&c.,  in  a  short  time  renders  tliera  unpleasant,  and  they  are 
rarely  washed  as  soon  as  is  necessary. 

Unless  there  are  oysters,  or  cucumbers,  the  cas'tors  and  salt 
need  not  be  set  on  the  tea-table.  If  there  are  sweetmeats,  it  is 
well  to  have  an  extra  cream  jug,  or  to  have  cream  in  a  glass  or 
silver  bowl,  to  be  dipped  out  with  a  small  ladle.  For  fresh 
fruit,  strawberries,  raspberries,  &c.,  a  bowl  of  powdered  loaf- 
sugar  will  also  be  wanted.  The  basket  or  plates  of  sweet 
cake  should  be  carried  round  the  table,  on  his  hand-waiter,  by 
the  domestic  who  is  attending,  and  this  should  be  done  not 
merely  at  the  close  of  the  repast,  but  soon  after  its  commence- 
ment. The  various  sorts  of  very  small  cakes,  scarcely  a 
mouthful  in  size,  and  called  by  the  confectioners  mixed  cakes, 
are  no  longer  introduced  at  tea. 

HINTS  ON  EVENING  PARTIES.— In  sending  notes  of 
invitation,  let  the  hour  always  be  specified,  and  the  day  of  the 
month,  as  well  as  that  of  the  week.  If  you  intend  to  have  tea, 
let  the  word  be  mentioned  in  the  note ;  otherwise,  invite  for 
evening  only. 

Bespeak  your  confectionary,  &c.,  at  the  very  best  shops ;  other 
wise  the  things  may  be  sent  to  you  made  of  bad  ingredients. 
Unless  your  own  servants  are  sufficient  in  number,  and  very 
capable,  hire  for  the  evening  one  or  more  of  the  men  who 
make  a  business  of  waiting  at  parties,  and  who  understand 
how  they  are  conducted  at  the  best  houses.  If  you  depend  on 
your  own  people,  you  must  see  that  the  fires  are  in  good  order, 
and  the  lamps  all  lighted  at  an  early  hour,  and  that  all  the  re- 
freshments are  actually  in  the  house,  so  that  there  may  be  no 
disappointment,  and  no  occasion  to  send  out  for  any  thing. 

When  tea  is  to  be  carried  round  to  more  than  four  or  five 
persons,  there  should  be  two  men  as  waiters,  one  to  hand  the 


HINTS    ON    EVENING  PARTIES. 


281 


tea,  and  the  other  the  cakes.  If  the  party  is  large,  the  waiters, 
of  course,  should  be  more  in  number. 

We  earnestly  recommend,  that  before  the  company  begins  to 
arrive,  there  shall  be  provided  in  some  convenient  place,  in  one 
of  the  drawing-room^  a  server  with  a  pitcher  of  cool  water, 
and  some  tumblers,  for  the  benefit  of  those  ladies  that  are  in 
the  practice  of  interrupting  and  retarding  the  progress  of  the 
tea,  and  sending  away  the  man  that  is  handing  it,  to  bring  them 
a  glass  of  water ;  notwithstanding  that  they  might  easily  have 
allayed  their  thirst  while  in  the  dressing-room. 

On  one  of  the  large  tea-trays  or  waiters,  set  round  the  cups 
of  green  tea,  black  tea,  and  coffee ;  those  of  green  tea  distin- 
guished by  having  a  spoon  in  each  cup,  the  others  having 
spoons  in  the  saucers.  In  the  centre,  place  the  sugar-dish, 
cream-jug,  and  a  small  tea-pot  of  hot  water,  for  those  who  wish 
to  weaken  their  tea,  or  to  drink  only  milk  and  water.  The 
handles  of  all  should  be  turned  towards  the  company.  The 
business  of  carrying  round  the  tea  will  be  much  accelerated,  if 
there  is  a  third  waiter,  (a  boy,  for  instance,)  to  take  round  on  a 
small  server,  the  sugar,  cream,  and  water-pots,  as  then  the 
first  waiter  will  only  have  to  stop  a  moment  before  each  person, 
merely  while  a  cup  is  taken  from  his  tray.  It  is  not  necessary, 
when  tea  is  handed  round  to  a  large  company,  to  have  bread 
and  butter,  muflins,  toast,  sliced  ham,  tongue,  or  any  thing  of 
that  sort  on  the  cake  waiter.  Few  persons,  (particularly 
ladies,)  on  these  occasions,  have  any  desire  to  partake  of  them, 
having,  perhaps,  already  taken  a  family  tea  at  home :  and 
they  are  very  greasy  to  the  fingers,  injurious  to  the  gloves,  and 
may  also,  by  some  accident,  grease  the  dresses.  It  is  better 
on  the  cake  waiter  to  have  cake  only ;  for  instance,  a  large 
handsome  one  in  the  centre,  placed  on  a  silver  waiter,  and 
feliced  standing ;  a  basket  of  smaller  cakes,  and  one  of  sponge 
24* 


282 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


cake,  for  persons  who  are  unwilling  to  eat  of  any  that  has  buttet 
in  it.  There  should  be  a  silver  fork  on  the  tray,  for  taking  out 
a  slice  of  the  large  cake,  and  a  knife  with  which  to  cut  more, 
if  necessary.  On  this  tray  should  be  small  plates  in  piles,  set 
on  the  side  next  the  company. 

The  chief  waiter  must  take  an  opportunity  of  asking  the  lady 
of  the  house  if  there  is  any  one  to  whom  she  particularly  wishes 
the  tea  to  be  handed  first.  This  compliment  is  always  paid  to 
a  bride,  to  the  greatest  stranger,  or  to  a  lady  for  whom  the  party 
has  been  made.  Otherwise  the  waiter  understands  that  he  is 
to  go  first  to  the  lady  who  appears  to  be  the  eldest  in  the  room. 
When  all  the  ladies  have  been  supplied,  the  tea,  &c.,  is  then 
handed  to  the  gentlemen,  taking  care  to  miss  no  one.  When 
the  tea-tray  is  empty,  the  waiter  is  to  carry  it  to  the  room  where 
it  is  poured  out,  and  bring  it  back  with  a  fresh  supply.  Some- 
times, when  the  company  is  not  very  large,  the  tea  is  poured 
out  in  their  presence  by  one  of  the  ladies  of  the  family,  seated 
at  a  table  in  the  back  drawing-room. 

The  boy  or  third  waiter  having  taken  from  his  server  the 
cream,  sugar,  &c.,  should  carry  it  round  for  the  empty  cups. 

The  man  that  has  the  cake  waiter  should  continue  to  go 
round  with  it,  particularly  in  the  interval  between  the  first  cups 
and  the  second,  and  should  look  out  to  see  if  every  person  is 
helped.  After  the  cups  have  gone  round  a  second  time,  (begin- 
ning again  with  th6  lady  to  whom  the  tea  was  handed  first,)  it 
will  not  be  necessary  to  bring  in  quite  as  many  the  third  time, 
as  few  persons  take  more  than  two.  It  is  customary  to  conclude 
by  bringing  in  the  cake-tray  alone  and  going  round  with  it  at 
the  last. 

About  an  hour  after  tea,  it  is  usual  to  send  round  lemonade 
in  glasses  with  handles,  a  basket  of  little  cakes  (raaccaroons, 
&c.)  being  in  the  centre  ef  the  tray.  If  there  is  to  be  a  supper, 


HINTS    ON    EVENING  PARTIES. 


283 


nothing  more  is  handed  round.  If  not,  there  is  generally  ice- 
cream, jelly,  blanc-mange,  &c.,  accompanied  by  wafer-cakes, 
savoy-biscuit,  or  almond  sponge-cake,  and  followed  immediately 
by  a  tray  with  wine  and  liqueurs.  Champagne  is  always 
carried  round  in  a  black  bottle,  with  the  cork  in  except  at  the 
moment  when  the  waiter  is  filling  the  glasses,  which  he  must 
do  as  quickly  as  possible. 

When  the  wine,  &c.,  is  handed  to  the  ladies,  it  is  well  to 
have  on  the  same  tray  a  glass  pitcher  with  cool  water,  and  a 
few  tumblers. 

At  ladies'  parties,  when  there  is  what  is  called  a  standing 
Supper,  and  no  dancing,  it  is  customary  to  have  the  table  set  in 
the  back  drawing-room,  about  ten  o'clock.  The  waiters  who 
are  hired  for  these  occasions  perform  this  business  with  great 
expedition  and  dexterity,  and  arrange  the  articles  on  the  table 
so  as  to  produce  a  very  elegant  effect.  When  all  is  ready,  the 
chief  waiter  signifies  it  to  the  lady  of  the  house,  and  the  com- 
pany then  assemble  round  the  table.  ' 

Some  confidential  person  should  be  employed  on  these  even- 
ings to  superintend  behind  the  scenes,  and  see  that  proper  care 
is  taken  of  all  the  things  that  are  left.  The  servants  should  be 
forbidden  to  invite  their  friends  to  the  kitchen,  as  they  are  very 
apt  to  do  on  these  occasions.  Having  company  of  their  own 
withdraws  their  attention  from  {heir  business,  and  gives  oppor- 
tunity for  much  idle  gossip;  besides  which,  their  visiters 
generally  carry  off  nearly  all  the  delicacies  that  remain  of  the 
supper,  and  frequently  make  too  free  with  the  wine. 

In  the  principal  cities  it  is  usual  to  decorate  the  supper  table 
of  a  ladies'  party  with  vases  of  flowers ;  or  with  temples,  bas- 
kets, iStc,  of  ornamental  sugar-work.  These  can  be  hired,  for 
the  evening,  of  a  confectioner.  Glass  and  china  can  also  be 
hired  fiom  a  china-store.    There  are  baskets  of  mottoes  or 


284 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


secrets,  ice-creams,  jellies,  blanc-mange,  sweetmeats,  fresh 
foreign  fruit,  cakes,  charlottes,  and  other  things,  according  as 
the  fashion  may  be.  Also  oysters,  pickled  or  stewed,  terrapin, 
and  chicken  salad,  with  baskets  of  small  light  bread-rolls  to 
eat  with  them.  Much  unnecessary  expense  is  frequently  in- 
curred on  these  occasions. 

The  gentlemen  conduct  the  ladies  to  the  supper-room,  and 
help  them  as  they  stand  round  the  table.  The  waiters  should 
also  be  alert  in  seeing  that  every  one  is  properly  attended. 

Tea  is  only  dispensed  with  at  very  large  parties,  where 
handing  it  round  in  the  crowd  would  be  inconvenient.  On 
these  occasions  it  is  sometimes  customary  to  have  a  table  in 
each  of  the  dressing-rooms,  with  tea,  coffee,  and  a  basket  of 
cake,  with  a  servant  to  pour  out  for  any  one  who  may  choose  a 
cup  before  they  go  down.  Have  no  wine  in  the  gentlemen's  room. 

Few  persons,  however,  go  to  a  party  without  first  taking 
their  tea  at  home  at  the  usual  hour. 

t  On  the  evening  of  a  party,  the  fires  should  be  in  proper  order, 
and  the  lamps  lighted  at  an  early  hour,  both  in  the  drawing- 
rooms,  on  the  stair-case,  and  in  the  dressing-rooms ;  and  the 
ladies  of  the  family  drest  arid  down  stairs  long  before  it  is  time 
for  any  of  the  company  to  arrive,  in  case  some  of  the  guests 
may  chance  to  be  in  advance  of  the  hour.  Let  one  of  the 
waiters  take  his  station  in  the  entry,  just  within  the  street-door, 
to  be  ready  to  open  it  immediately,  as  soon  as  the  bell  rings, 
and  to  inform  the  company,  as  they  come,  where  they  are  to 
find  the  dressing-rooms.  In  cold  weather,  there  should  be  a 
good  fire  in  the  stove  that  warms  the  hall  and  stair-case.  It  is 
well  to  have  another  waiter  stationed  up  stairs,  near  the  gentle- 
men's.room;  and  a  female  domestic  should  stay  just  within 
the  open  door  of  the  ladies'  room  till  the  company  has  all 
arrived.    Both  dressing-rooms  should  be  well  lighted,  having 


HINTS    ON    EVENING  PARTIES. 


286 


a  good  fire  in  each,  and  a  sufficiency  of  mirrors,  combs,  and 
hair-brushes ;  and  in  the  ladies'  room  large  pincushions  filled 
with  pins  on  the  toilet  tables ;  on  one  of  which  it  is  well  to 
have  a  work-box  with  thimble,  scissors,  needles,  thread,  sewing 
silk,  &c.,  in  case  any  one  should  wish  by  a  few  stitches  to 
repair  an  accident  that  may  have  happened  to  her  dress,  or  to 
sew  on  a  string  that  may  have  broken  loose  from  her  slipper. 
Also  a  bottle  of  cologne  water,  and  one  of  camphor,  in  case  of 
a  lady  being  suddenly  taken  ill.  Two  or  three  young  women 
should  attend  all  the  evening  in  this  apartment,  (which  is 
generally  the  chamber  or  dressing-room  of  the  mistress  of  the 
house,)  for  the  purpose  of  assisting  the  ladies  in  taking  off  their 
cloaks,  changing  their  shoes,  fastening  their  gloves,  or  in  any 
other  way  that  may  be  required.  The  cloak,  hood,  &c.,  of 
each  lady  should  be  wrapped  up  together  and  put  into  a  sepa- 
rate place.  If  there  are  not  two  toilet  tables  and  mirrors 
belonging  to  the  room,  let  a  second  be  placed  there  for  that 
evening ;  as  one  will  not  be  sufficient  to  accommodate  all  the 
ladies :  and  gentlemen  are  generally  rather  impatient  of  being 
long  detained  in  the  passage  by  waiting  for  them.  It  is  cus- 
tomary, till  all  her  female  guests  have  arrived,  for  the  lady  of 
the  house  to  remain  at  the  upper  end  of  the  front  drawing-room, 
that  the  company,  as  they  enter,  may  know  exactly  where  to 
find  her  when  going  up  to  pay  their  compliments. 

Care  should  be  taken  that  the  fire  and  lights  are  kept  up  all 
the  evening  in  the  dressing-rooms,  and  that  the  attendants  are 
at  their  posts,  in  case  some  of  the  company  should  come  very 
late,  and  others  should  go  away  very  early. 

When  the  party  is  over,  as,  in  all  probability,  every  person 
in  the  house  will  be  very  much  fatigued,  a.nd  glad  to  get  to  bed, 
it  is  better  to  defer  clearing  away  and  washing  up  the  things 
till  next  day.    Let  the  lamps  and  fires  be  extinguished,  the 


288 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


drawing-rooms  and  pantry  be  locked  up,  and  all  left  as  it  is  till 
morning.  We  have  heard  of  over-good  house-vs^ives,  (more 
nice  than  wise,)  who  boasted  of  having,  after  a  party,  stayed 
up  all  night,  and  made  their  servants  do  the  same,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  having  every  thing  washed  and  put  regularly  away, 
and  the  rooms  restored  to  their  usual  order;  a  mode  of  pro- 
cedure which  few  circumstances  could  warrant,  and  which 
certainly  evinced  very  little  consideration  for  themselves,  and 
none  at  all  for  their  domestics. 

At  summer  evening  parties  it  is  the  custom  (whether  the 
refreshments  are  handed  round  or  placed  on  a  table)  to  have, 
after  tea,  cakes,  confectionary,  ice-cream,  and  fresh  fruits, 
which;  if  they  are  berries,  should  have  with  them  a  bowl  of 
powdered  loaf-sugar  and  a  pitcher  of  cream.  The  beverage, 
lemonade  and  orgeat;  and  after  the  ice-cream,  wine  or  li- 
queurs. 

From  "  the  signs  of  the  times,"  there  is  great  reason  to  hope 
that  the  period  is  fast  approaching  when  large,  crowded,  and 
extravagantly  luxurious  parties  will  become  obsolete ;  at  least 
in  those  classes  of  American  society  that  are  or  ought  to  be 
the  most  distinguished  for  good  taste  and  refinement.  Surely 
the  most  rational,  agreeable,  and  in  every  respect  the  most 
eligible  manner  of  keeping  up  social  intercourse,  is  to  see  your 
friends  frequently,  but  in  small  numbers ;  instead  of  once  or 
twice  in  the  season  giving  what  is  called  a  squeeze,  asking 
every  one  you  may  happen  to  know,  (and  consequently  many 
whom  you  do  not  care  for,)  and  incurring  a  great  and  sometimes 
very  inconvenient  expense,  and  a  vast  deal  of  fatigue,  for  a 
purpose  that,  after  all,  affords  no  real  pleasure,  either  to  the 
family  or  their  guests. 

We  are  glad  to  find  that,  in  the  most  really  genteel  circles, 
it  is  now  becoming  very  customary  to  have  only  small  parties ; 


SUPPER  PARTIES. 


287 


inviting  but  twenty  or  thirty  persons  at  a  time,  till,  in  the 
course  of  the  season,  you  get  round  all  your  friends :  and  select- 
ing, on  each  occasion,  those  that  are  likely  to  be  most  agreeable 
and  best  suited  to  each  other.  And,  as  at  these  assemblages, 
nothing  is  provided  that  is  entirely  for  show,  and  the  style  of 
dress  is  comparatively  simple,  the  expense  and  trouble  of 
receiving  company,  or  of  going  into  it,  is  greatly  and  properly 
diminished ;  and  the  enjoyment  proportionably  increased. 

Where  there  is  a  small  company,  not  exceeding  ten  or  a  dozen 
persons,  it  is  usual,  an  hour  or  two  after  tea,  to  have  refresh- 
ments brought  in  by  a  domestic,  and  placed  on  one  of  the  tables 
in  the  room,  with  a  sufficiency  of  glasses,  plates,  forks,  &c., 
allowing  a  few  extra  ones.  After  which,  the  servant  retires, 
as  soon  as  the  mistress  of  the  house  has  seen  that  all  is  right ; 
and  the  gentlemen  go  to  the  table,  and  help  the  ladies  as  they 
sit,  to  whatever  they  may  wish.  The  refreshments  remaining 
on  the  table,  as  long  as  the  company  stay,  and  offered  again, 
previous  to  their  departure. 

SUPPER  PARTIES.— Except  at  an  oyster  supper,  it  is  not 
very  customary  for  ladies  to  appear  at  these  entertainments. 
For  a  gentlemen's  supper  party,  it  is  usual  to  have  terrapin, 
canvas-back  ducks,  or  game;  and  sometimes,  French  dishes. 
On  some  occasions,  all  the  articles  for  a  gentlemen's  supper 
party  are  cold.  The  table  is  set  out  nearly  the  same  as  for 
dinner,  first  seeing  that  the  room  is  well  lighted  and  well 
warmed.  If  the  supper  consists  entirely  of  cold  things,  the 
plates  must  be  cold  also ;  and  it  is  not  usual  at  suppers,  to 
have  either  wine-coolers  or  finger-glasses ;  or  to  hand  round 
coffee  at  the  close.    There  is  sometimes  chocolate  and  rusk. 

Pastry  is  rarely  seen  on  a  supper-table.  The  dessert  is  of 
ice-cream,  oranges,  grapes,  &c. 


288 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


At  an  oyster  supper,  it  is  usual  to  have  all  the  various  pre- 
parations  of  oysters,  fried,  stewed,  broiled,  roasted,  raw,  and 
in  patties.  Potatoes  mashed,  and  browned,  are  generally 
added.  The  roasted  oysters  are  served  in  the  shell,  on  very 
large  dishes,  and  brought  in  "hot  and  hot,"  all  the  time;  as 
they  are  generally  eaten  much  faster  than  they  can  be  cooked. 
Small  baskets  (usually  of  maple  or  stained  wood,  with  brass 
hoops)  are  placed  on  the  floor,  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  the 
shells,  beside  the  chairs  of  the  gentlemen ;  as  the  business  of 
opening  the  oysters  mostly  devolves  on  them.  At  the  right 
hand  of  each  plate,  is  placed  a  thick  folded  towel,  and  an 
oyster  knife,  which  is  used  only  to  open  the  shell ;  at  the  other 
side,  the  napkin,  fork,  bread,  tumbler,  wine-glasses,  &c.  On 
the  side-table,  let  there  be  plenty  of  plates,  knives  and  forks, 
to  change  with ;  a  basket  of  bread  or  light  rolls  ;  pitchers  of 
water;  and  bottles  of  porter  and  cider;  decanters  of  wine 
being  on  the  table. 

Several  butter-plates,  with  a  butter  knife  to  each,  should  be 
set  along  the  table.  Sometimes  the  butter  is  made  up  into  the 
shape  of  a  pine-apple,  or  a  basket  of  flowers. 


We  subjoin  an  excellent  receipt  for 

Cream-oysiers.—Take,  for  instance,  five  hundred  of  the 
largest  and  finest  oysters  you  can  procure.  Lift  them  out  of 
the  liquor,  one  at  a  time,  by  sticking  a  fork  into  the  heart  or 
hard  part,  and  lay  them  in  a  deep  pan.  Then  strain  the  liquor ; 
take  the  half  of  it  only,  and  boil  it.  When  it  has  come  to  a 
boil,  have  ready  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  the  best  fresh 
butter,  divided  into  balls  or  lumps,  and  each  slightly  rolled  in 
a  very  little  flour.  Add  them  to  the  boiling  oyster-liquor;  and 
when  they  are  all  melted,  stir  the  whole  very  well,  and  put  in 
the  oysters.    As  soon  as  they  have  come  to  a  boil,  take  out  the 


SUPPER  PARTIES. 


289 


oysters,  and  throw  them  immediately  into  a  pan  of  very  cold 
water ;  this  will  plump  them,  and  give  them  firmness.  Then 
take  a  quart  and  a  pint  of  rich  cream ;  add  it  very  gradually 
to  the  liquor,  (stirriiig  all  the  time,)  and  give  it  another  boil 
after  the  cream  is  in ;  seasoning  it  with  a  powdered  nutmeg, 
or  more,  according  to  your  taste.  When  it  has  boiled  again, 
return  the  oysters  to  it,  and  simmer  them  in  llie  creamed  liquor 
a  few  minutes;  just  long  enough  to  heat  them  thoroughly. 
Then  take  them  out,  put  them  into  a  tureen,  and  serve,  them 
warm,  with  rolls  of  fresh  bread. 


Here  is  a  very  fine  receipt  for 

Oyster  Patties. — Have  ready  some  shells  of  puff-paste,  baked 
empty,  in  small  patty-pans.  You  may  bespeak  them  in  the 
morning,  of  a  good  pastry-cook,  on  whom  you  can  depend  for 
using  only  the  best  butter.  Take  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
oysters,  drain  them,  remove  the  hard  part,  and  chop  the  rest 
into  very  small  pieces.  Mix  them  with  some  rich  cream,  and 
season  them  to  your  taste,  with  powdered  mace  and  nutmeg. 
The  mixture  must  be  very  thick.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  over 
a  moderate  heat,  and  when  it  has  come  to  a  boil,  take  it  ofi"  the 
fire,  and  put  a  portion  into  the  hollow  of  each  of  the  baked 
shells.    You  may  serve  them  up  either  warm  or  cold. 

If  you  wish  to  have  the  patties  with  lids,  bake,  inside  of 
each,  a  bit  of  bread-crust,  to  support  the  top.  When  they  are 
baked,  remove  the  lid  nicely,  by  slipping  a  knife  under  it,  fill 
the  patties  with  the  oyster  mixture,  (previously  cooked,)  and 
then  restore  the  covers. 

Oyster  pies,  the  size  of  a  soup-plate,  may  be  made  in.  this 
manner,  with  chopped  oysters  and  cream,  either  with  or  with- 
out covers. 

S5 


290  THE    HOUSE    BOOK.  • 

CHINA  WARE. — For  common,  every-day  use,  china  ware 
of  entire  white  seems  now  to  have  superseded  all  others,  and 
very  justly ;  as,  when  of  good  quality,  it  is  pure  and  delicate 
in  its  appearance,  never  looks  the  worse  for  wear,  (as  is  the 
case  with  much  of  the  gilt  china,)  and  when  broken  is  easily 
matched.  If  possible,  avoid  buying  cups  with  handles ;  as  the 
handles  are  rarely  used,  and  soon  knocked  off,  and  the  cup  then 
looks  shabby  and  defaced.  Many  of  the  saucers  now  made 
are  but  very  slightly  concave,  and  turn  outwards  towards  the 
edge,  which  makes  them  useless  to  persons  who  do  not  like  to 
take  their  tea  out  of  the  cup.  As  there  are  many  who  prefer 
drinking  out  of  the  saucer,  it  is  well  to  buy  them  of  a  conve- 
nient shape,  and  also  to  have  a  set  of  little  cup-plates  or 
cup-mats. 

,5  India  china  (except  the  large  jars)  is  now  much  less  in 
favour  than  formerly ;  as  the  French  is  generally  preferred  to 
it,  the  gilding  being  more  lasting,  the  colours  finer,  and  the 
patterns  more  elegant.  The  Worcester  china  is  also  very 
beautiful  in  quality,  gilding,  and  painting.  It  is  not  unusual 
to  make  up  at  the  china  stores  what  are  called  Harlequin  tea- 
sets,  every  cup  and  saucer  being  different,  and  to  be  purchased 
separately.  Odd  cups  and  saucers  are  imported  for  this  pur- 
pose, of  all  shapes,  patterns,  and  colours.  A  Harlequin  set, 
however,  should  consist  of  none  but  the  most  elegant  articles. 
If  of  low-priced  cups  and  saucers  that  have  no  beauty  to  recom- 
mend them,  the  whole  will  have  a  mean  and  paltry  effect, 
looking  like  the  leavings  of  broken  sets. 

China  of  a  white  ground,  sprigged  with  flowers  of  different 
colours,  has  too  much  the  look  of  calico.  The  most  elegant 
that  we  have  seen  has  but  one  colour  besides  the  gifding.  A 
delicate  light  blue  or  pink,  with  a  rich  gold  border,  is  very 
beautiful.    So  is  dove-colour  and  gold ;  or  purple  and  gold. 


MENDING    BROKEN  DISHES. 


291 


TO  MEND  BROKEN  DJSHES.~If  you  have  any  dishes 
or  plates  that  have  been  merely  broken  in  two,  but  not  shattered, 
procure  from  a  house-painter  a  small  quantity  of  common  white 
paint.  Take  the  two  halves  of  the  dish,  (first  seeing  that  they 
are  perfectly  dry,  and  free  from  grease;)  place  them,  bottom 
upwards,  on  a  shelf  or  common  table,  or  on  a  floor,  and  smear 
the  broken  edges  with  the  paint,  laying  it  on  neatly  with  a 
small  brush.  Then  join  these  edges  together,  fitting  them 
closely.  Cut  some  strong  new  linen-tape  the  exact  length  of 
the  fracture.  Cover  one  side  of  the  tape  also  with  white  paint, 
and  lay  it  over  the  crack  where  you  have  joined  the  two  broken 
pieces  together.  Press  down  the  tape  closely  on  the  crack,  so 
as  to  make  it  lie  smooth  and  even.  Then  let  the  dish  remain 
untouched  for  three  or  four  weeks,  by  which  time  the  fracture 
will  be  firmly  cemented,  and  the  dish  will  never  break  again 
in  that  place. 

Perform  the  process  in  the  place  where  the  article  is  to 
remain  unmoved  till  quite  dry ;  and  do  it  on  a  shelf,  table,  or 
floor  that  is  perfectly  level.  It  should  be  done  in  a  room  that 
is  not  in  constant  use,  where  it  can  be  shut  up  so  that  nothing 
will  disturb  it  while  drying,  and  where  no  dust  can  lodge 
on  it. 

A  bowl  or  other  vessel,  cracked  but  half  across,  may  be 
mended  by  plastering  the  crack  on  both  sides  with  only  the 
white  paint,  omitting  the  tape. 

Many  servants  are  in  the  habit,  when  a  dish  comes  from  the 
table,  of  setting  it  on  hot  coals,  to  keep  the  meat  warm  for  their 
own  dinner,  at  the  risk  of  splitting  the  dish  in  two.  Let  this 
practice  be  forbidden;  and  direct  them  to  remove  the  meat  into 
a  tin  or  iron  pan  when  they  wish  to  warm  it.  Whenever  plates 
or  dishes  are  broken  in  half,  care  should  be  taken  to  save  the 
pieces,  that  they  may  be  mended  in  the  above  manner :  we 


292 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


know  it  to  be  a  mode  of  cementing  them  that  can  certainly  be 
depended  on. 


TO  MEND  BROKEN  GLASSES— Get  some  cloves  of 
English  garlic ;  (you  may  obtain  them  in  market,  at  a  seed- 
store,  or  at  a  druggist's ;)  tie  them  up  in  a  rag,  lay  them  in  a 
tin  pan,  and  pound  them  with  a  hammer  to  get  out  the  juice. 
Next  take  the  broken  glass,  (for  instance,  a  tumbler,  bowl,  or 
dish  that  has  been  broken  in  half,)  and  wet  or  smear  each  of 
the  broken  edges  with  the  garlic  juice.  Then  stick  them  firmly 
together,  stand  the  article  on  a  plate,  and  set  it  away  to  remain 
undisturbed  for  a  fortnight. 

The  broken  lid  of  a  pitcher  can  also  be  mended  in  this 
manner. 

There  is  no  way  of  mending  a  looking-glass,  if  broken. 


TO  MEND  A  WINDOW  PANE.— If  a  window  glass  is 
cracked  across,  you  may  mend  it  by  plastering  some  putty  on 
both  sides  of  the  crack.  This  will  not  look  well,  of  course, 
but  it  will  make  the  broken  pane  air-tight,  and  prevent  it  from 
falling  apart,  and  may  do  very  well  till  you  can  have  a  new 
glass  put  in  by  the  glazier. 


TO  SOFTEN  OLD  PUTTY.— In  removbg  old  or  broken 
panes  from  a  window,  it  is  generally  very  difficult  to  get  off 
the  hard  dry  putty  that  sticks  round  the  glass  and  its  frame. 
Dip  a  small  brush  in  a  little  nitric  or  muriatic  acid,  (to  be 
obtained  at  the  druggist's,)  and  go  over  the  putty  with  it.  Let 
it  rest  a  while,  and  it  will  soon  become  so  soft  that  you  can 
remove  it  with  ease. 


CEMENTING    ALABASTER,   ETC.  293 


CEMENT  FOR  ALABASTER,  MARBLE,  &c.— Take  a 
pound  of  bees-wax,  and  half  a  pound  of  rosin,  and  melt  them 
together.  Have  ready  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  finely  pow- 
dered alabaster,  or  powdered  marble,  (according  to  the  article 
you  wish  to  cement,)  and  add  it  gradually  to  the  melted  mix- 
ture, stirring  the  whole  very  well.  Then  knead  the  whole  mass 
in  water,  that  the  ingredients  may  be  thoroughly  incorporated. 
You  may  add  more  of  the  powder,  to  bring  it  nearer  to  the 
colour  of  the  article  to  be  cemented. 

Before  applying  this  cement  it  must  be  heated,  and  so  must 
the  parts  of  the  subject  you  are  going  to  unite ;  they  must  also 
be  thoroughly  dry,  and  quite  free  from  grease. 

The  powder  may  be  obtained  from  an  alabaster  or  marble  shop. 

For  cementing  plaster  of  Paris,  make  the  mixture  with  pul- 
verized plaster. 

COMMON  C  EMENT.— Mix  together  half  a  pint  of  vinegar 
and  half  a  pint  of  milk.  When  they  have  formed  a  curd,  take 
the  whey  only,  and  mix  it  with  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  beating 
the  whole  very  hard.  Then  sift  in,  gradually,  sufficient  quick- 
lime to  convert  the  whole  into  a  thick  paste.  This  will  be 
found  useful  for  broken  bowls,  jugs,  &c.  Rub  both  the  broken 
edges,  and  then  cover  the  crack  with  it,  allowing  it  a  fortnight 
to  dry. 

Another  good  cement  may  be  made  by  mixing  together  equal 
quantities  of  melted  glue,  white  of  egg,  and  white  lead,  and 
boiling  them. 

CEMENT  FOR  IRON  KITCHEN  UTENSILS.— Take 
six  parts  of  yellow  potter's  clay,  and  one  part  of  steel  filing^; 
mix  them  together  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  linseed  oil  to 
make  a  thick  paste  of  the  consistence  of  glazier's  putty.  Thsn 
25* 


294 


THE    H0U8E  BOOK. 


apply  it  to  the  cracked  parts,  on  both  sides,  and  let  it  stand 
three  or  four  weeks,  undisturbed. 


CEMENT  CAKES.— Take  four  ounces  of  the  best  glue, 
and  two  ounces  of  ising-glass ;  put  them  into  a  common  glue- 
kettle,  with  as  much  mild  ale  as  will  cover  them.  Dissolve 
them,  over  a  slow  fire,  to  the  consistence  of  strong  glue.  Then 
add  gradually,  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  well-boiled  linseed  oil, 
stirring  the  whole  very  hard.  Spread  it  out  to  cool,  and  then 
cut  it  into  cakes  ;  in  consistence,  it  will  resemble  India  rubber. 
When  wanted  for  use,  boil  a  piece  of  it  in  a  proportionate 
quantity  of  ale,  till  quite  dissolved,  and  apply  it  hot.  Then 
let  the  article  rest  till  next  day. 

It  will  unite  wood,  earthen-ware,  china,  &c. 

By  adding  a  little  tow  to  the  solution,  it  will  aflFord  an  excel- 
lent cement  for  leaks  in  casks,  &c. 


COMMON  PASTE  FOR  PAPER.— Take  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  wheat  flour,  and  mix  it  gradually  with  half  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  carefully  pressing  out  all  the  lumps,  and  making 
it  very  smooth.  If  you  wish  it  thinner,  add  more  water; 
another  half  pint  will  make  it  quite  thin.  Pour  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan or  skillet,  set  it  on  hot  coals,  stir  it  frequently,  and  after  it 
has  come  to  a  boil,  let  it  continue  boiling  about  five  minutes. 
Then  take  it  off,  and  put  it  to  cool. 

A  little  powdered  alum,  (for  instance,  a  half  tea-spoonful  to 
the  above  quantity,)  stirred  in  while  over  the  fire,  is  an  im- 
provement to  paste,  making  it  more  tenacious. 

In  pasting  paper  on  wood,  first  wet  the  paper  all  over  with  a 
clean  sponge  dipped  in  cold  water ;  spread  the  paste  on  the 
wood,  and  lay  on  the  paper  while  damp ;  otherwise  it  will  be 
in  wrinkles,  when  dry. 


RYE    PASTE,  ETC. 


295 


RYE  PASTE.— For  very  strong  purposes,  (wall  paper,  for 
instance,)  the  paste  should  be  made  of  rye-flour,  with  the  addi- 
tion of  a  little  powdered  rosin. 

COLD  PASTE.— This  can  be  obtained  at  any  time,  when 
it  is  not  convenient  to  boil  it,  by  keeping  always  in  the  house, 
a  bottle  of  gum  arable  water,  made  in  the  proportion  of  an 
ounce  of  pulverized  gum-arabic  to  a  jill  of  water.  Mix  a  little 
flour  with  barely  water  enough  to  dissolve  it,  making  it  very 
smooth,  and  ftee  from  lumps  ;  then  add  a  little  of  the  solution 
of  gum-arabic,  diluting  it  with  more  water,  if  necessary.  The 
gum  will  make  this  paste  sufficiently  adhesive  for  any  common 
purpose,  without  boiling. 

COMMON  GLUE.— Take  a  piece  of  glue,  and  melt  it  over 
coals  in  a  small  earthen  glue-pot.  When  it  has  come  to  a  boil, 
take  it  off,  and  apply  it  warm,  by  spreading  it  on  with  a  small 
brush,  or  a  flat  stick.  If  it  congeals  before  you  are  done  with 
it,  melt  it  again.  While  drying  keep  a  string  tied  round  the 
article  glued. 

RICE  GLUE. — Mix  together  rice-flour  and  cold  water,  to  a 
thick  paste,  pressing  out  all  the  lumps  with  a  spoon,  and 
making  it  very  smooth.  Then  dilute  it  with  a  little  more 
water,  (altogether,  you  may  allow  a  jill  of  water  to  a  table- 
spoonful  of  rice-flour,)  and  boil  it  slowly,  as  long  as  you  would 
boil  starch ;  stirring  it  frequently.  When  done,  set  it  to  cool. 
Use  it  for  pasting  fine  paper,  and  for  any  little  ornamental  arti- 
cles made  of  paste-board.    It  is  a  very  nice  and  dujrable  cement. 

The  water  in  which  rice  has  been  boiled  for  the  table,  will 
aflibrd  a  cement  for  slight  purposes. 


296 


BED-CHAMBERS. 


REMARKS. 

It  is  customary  to  have  the  two  principal  bed-rooms  furnished 
equally  well ;  the  second  being  usually  appropriated  to  visiters. 
Besides  this,  if  the  house  is  large,  there  may  be  other  spare 
bed-rooms,  fitted  up  in  a  plainer  manner.  It  is  not  a  good 
practice  to  keep  articles  belonging  to  the  family,  in  the  presses, 
closets,  or  bureaus  of  the  spare  bed-chambers.  As  most  of 
these  things  have  to  be  removed,  (or,  at  least,  ought  to  be,) 
when  the  room  is  (for  more  than  a  few  days)  occupied  by  a 
visiter,  it  is  better  to  place  them  permanently  elsewhere.  A 
female  guest,  particularly,  from  requiring  more  space  for  her 
articles  of  dress,  should  have  the  entire  use  of  all  the  receptacles 
in  her  apartment ;  also,  no  lady  can  feel  secure  of  the  privacy  of 
her  room,  if  she  knows  that  she  is  liable  to  be  frequently  dis- 
turbed at  unseasonable  times,  by  members  of  the  family  com- 
ing themselves,  or  sending  servants  to  get  things  out  of  the 
closets,  drawers,  &c.,  of  the  spare  chamber. 


CHAIRS,  SOFAS,  &c. — In  every  chamber  there  is  great 
convenience  in  having  a  rocking-chair,  a  stuffed  easy  chair,  or 
something  of  the  sort,  and  one  or  two  footstools.  Also,  low 
chairs,  to  sit  on  when  sewing,  or  when  washing  your  feet. 
Large,  deep  sofas,  with  square  pillows,  are  now 'considered 
essential  articles  of  furniture  in  bed-rooms.  These  sofas  are 
generally  covered  with  furniture  chintz,  or  dimity,  or  damasked 


CHAMBER  FURNITURE. 


297 


brown  linen;  and  are  very  useful  in  case  of  illness,  or  to  recline 
on  for  an  afternoon  nap.  Many  of  them  are  made  to  contain  a 
frame  and  a  double  mattrass,  which  can  be  drawn  out  at  night, 
Ro  as  to  furnish  an  extra  bed,  when  necessary.  Plain  ones 
may  be  had  in  Philadelphia  as  low  as  forty  dollars.  They 
require  great  care  in  keeping  clezm,  otherwise  they  may  be 
infested  with  insects. 

A  cheap  substitute  for  a  chamber-sofa  is  a  long,  broad  settee 
of  painted  wood,  furnished  with  a  mattrass  and  square  cushions, 
covered  with  chintz  tied  on  with  strings,  and  having  a  valance 
in  front. 

The  most  convenient  chairs  for  bed-rooms  are  of  curled 
maple,  with  cane  seats ;  but  if  the  other  furniture  is  elegant, 
they  will  be  considered  too  plain.  In  this  case,  handsome 
painted  and  gilt  chairs  will  be  more  in  accordance,  the  colour 
corresponding  with  that  of  the  curtains.  Mahogany  chairs  are 
generally  considered  too  heavy  and  cumbrous  for  a  chamber. 

Trunks  and  square  wooden  bonnet  boxes  may  be  made  rather 
ornamental  than  otherwise  to  a  chamber,  by  fitting  them  up  as 
seats.  To  do  this,  have  for  the  top  of  each  trunk  a  brown 
linen  cushion,  stuffed  with  moss  or  hair,  and  made  exactly  to 
fit.  For  this  cushion  let  there  be  an  outside  covering  of  chintz 
or  some  other  material,  (as  handsome  as  you  please,)  with  a 
binding,  and  a  fringe  or  a  frill  all  round,  deep  enough  to  conceal 
the  place  or  crack  where  the  lid  opens.  Then  have  a  valance 
of  the  same,  (either  full  or  plain,)  to  nail,  with  small  tacks,  all 
round  the  sides  and  ends  of  the  trunk,  and  descending  to  the 
floor.  Fasten  the  cushion  firmly  to  the  top  of  the  trunk,  by 
tacks  driven  through  the  binding.  By  drawing  out  the  tacks 
with  a  claw-hammer,  the  cushion  and  valance  can  be  removed 
when  it  is  necessary  to  wash  them,  and  when  the  trunk  is 
wanted  for  travelling.  We  have  seen  an  old  champagne  basket 


298 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


used  in  a  bed-room  as  a  receptacle  for  shoes ;  and  made  quite 
ornamental  by  being  cushioned  and  valanced  in  the  above 
manner  on  the  outside. 

There  are  chamber  ottomans,  with  the  wooden  frame  made 
hollow  inside,  like  a  long  box,  for  the  purpose  of  containing 
the  bed  linen,  &c.  They  stand  in  the  recesses,  and  have  stuffed 
seats  and  cushions,  covered  generally  with  chintz. 

RECEPTACLES  FOR  DRESSES,  &c.— In  building  or 
altering  a  house,  it  will  be  found  an  excellent  plan  to  construct 
a  range  of  large  closets  (three  in  number)  between  the  two 
principal  chambers  on  each  floor;  the  central  closet  having  two 
doors,  (one  opening  into  the  front  room  and  one  into  the  back,) 
and  two  tiers  of  deep  shelves.  In  summer,  by  throwing  open 
both  these  doors,  you  may  have  a  fine  draught  of  air  through 
the  rooms.  On  the  inside  of  each  door  let  hooks  be  fixed  for 
hanging  up  dresses.  Of  the  other  two  closets,  one  may  belong 
to  each  room ;  or,  if  uniformity  of  doors  is  particularly  desired, 
the  middle  closet  (being  the  largest)  may  be  appropriated  to 
the  occupants  of  one  chamber,  and  the  side  closets  to  those  of 
the  other. 

A  ward-robe,  or  commode,  is  an  almost  indispensable  article 
of  furniture  for  a  chamber,  particularly  if  there  is  no  large  closet 
or  press.  In  spacious  rooms  occupied  by  two  persons,  there 
are  frequently  two  commodes.  Those  are  perhaps  most  con- 
venient that  have  a  tier  of  shelves  on  each  side,  and  a  space  in 
the  middle,  furnished  with  two  rows  of  large  brass  or  iron 
hooks,  on  which  to  suspend  dresses  or  coats ;  the  linen  and 
smaller  articles  to  be  laid  on  the  shelves. 

Exclusive  of  the  large  wardrobes  that  are  tall  enough  to 
contain  dresses  hanging  up,  there  is  a  smaller  sort,  about  the 
size  and  height  of  a  bureau,  with  four  shelves  instead  of 


CHAMBER  FURNITURE. 


299 


drawers,  all  enclosed  by  a  two-leaved  door,  opening  in  front. 
They  stand  on  castors,  and  are  made  of  mahogany  or  stained 
wood,  and  have  advantages  over  bureaus,  as  they  preclude  the 
trouble  of  pulling  drawers  in  and  out ;  the  whole  being  opened 
by  a  door,  one  lock  suffices  for  all.  Every  thing  that  you 
would  keep  in  a  drawer  can  be  laid  just  as  conveniently  on  the 
shelves  of  one  of  these  low  commodes. 

There  is  frequently  much  trouble  with  the  handles  of  bureau 
drawers,  particularly  if  they  are  of  glass,  as  they  are  very  apt 
to  come  off  in  your  hand.  So,  indeed,  are  the  plated  and  brass 
handles.  Those  of  mahogany  keep  their  places  best,  and  have 
been  introduced  very  successfully  on  the  handsomest  bureaus. 
Unless  the  top  of  a  bureau  is  of  marble,  it  is  usual  to  cover  it 
with  a  white  cloth,  either  of  damask  linen,  or  of  dimity,  fringed. 
If  a  drawer  is  apt  to  stick  in  damp  weather,  the  inconvenience 
may  be  remedied  by  nicely  paring  away  with  a  knife  a  little 
of  the  wood  on  the  side  edges. 

Bandboxes  are  seldom  used  now,  except  for  the  convenience 
of  conveying  a  cap,  bonnet,  or  dress  to  the  house  of  a  friend  or 
a  milliner.  They  are  rarely  found  among  the  baggage  of  a 
genteel  female  traveller ;  square  wooden  boxes,  with  locks, 
keys,  and  handles,  being  substituted  for  them.  These  wooden 
boxes  are  generally  tall  enough  to  contain  a  folded  dress  under 
the  bonnet  or  other  millinery,  and  should  be  painted  on  the 
outside.  They  will  last  many  years,  will  bear  exposure,  and 
can  go  outside  with  the  rest  of  the  baggage.  Tall  square 
leather  trunks  are  sometimes  used  for  carrying  bonnets,  &c. 
A  paste-board  bandbox  ought  to  have  a  strong  loop  of  twine, 
red  tape,  or  galloon,  passed  through  one  sidje,  large  enough  to 
slip  over  the  hand  in  carrying  it.  To  secure  the  lid,  bore  two 
holes  in  it  near  the  edge,  one  on  each  side,  znd  pass  through 
them  strong  pieces  of  string,  each  about  a  quarter  of  a  yard  in 


300 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


length,  fastened  by  a  knot  on  the  inside.  Make  two  corres- 
ponding holes  near  the  upper  edge  of  the  bandbox  itself,  and 
pass  a  similar  string  through  each  of  them.  Then  put  on  the 
lid,  and  tie  each  pair  of  strings  m  a  tight  bow  knot.  There  is 
no  better  way  of  keeping  a  bandbox  fast. 

TOILET  TABLES,  MIRRORS,  &c.-The  most  elegant 
dressing  tables  are  of  mahogany,  with  marble  tops,  having  at 
the  back  a  large  mirror,  with  candle-branches  or  lamp-brackets 
on  each  side,  and  furnished  with  drawers  to  hold  all  the  conve- 
niences of  the  toilet.  Dressing  tables  of  plain  unpainted  wood, 
with  white  covers,  and  valances  of  muslin  made  full  and  deep, 
and  descending  to  the  floor,  are  not  yet  quite  out  of  use.  For  a 
common  bed-room,  a  toilet  cover  of  fine  buff-dyed  cotton  cloth, 
with  a  frill  at  the  top  to  conceal  the  place  where  it  is  nailed  on 
to  the  table,  and  set  off  with  a  purple  or  dark-brown  binding, 
looks  infinitely  better  than  might  be  supposed ;  and  will  appear 
clean  much  longer  than  one  of  white  muslin.  The  small 
movable  looking-glasses,  standing  on  feet,  are  much  out  of 
favour  for  dressing  tables,  as  they  scarcely  show  more  than 
your  head,  and  are  very  easily  upset.  Instead  of  those,  it  is 
now  customary  to  fix  a  large  glass  upon  the  wall  at  the  back 
of  the  table  or  bureau ;  suspending  it  by  a  double  ribbon  to  a 
strong  hook,  and  making  the  string  long  enough  to  allow  the 
glass  to  incline  considerably  forward,  so  as  to  give  the  persons 
that  look  into  it  a  better  view  of  their  figures.  For  seeing  the 
whole  figure  from  head  to  foot,  a  cheval  glass  (also  called  a 
Psyche)  is  now  a  very  general  and  useful  piece  of  furniture  in 
a  handsome  chamber.  It  is  very  large,  stands  on  feet  with 
castors,  and  can  be  made  to  incline  backward  or  forward,  as  is 
most  convenient.  It  has  also  on  each  side  branches  for  lights. 
In  every  chamber  should  be  a  second  glass,  small  and  easily 


CHAMBER  FURNITURE. 


moved,  to  take  in  your  hand  for  the  purpose  of  looking  at  the 
back  of  your  head  and  neck,  after  dressing;  the  large  glass 
being  in  front.  This  small  back-glass  may  be  hung  in  a  recess, 
or  over  the  washing-stand,  at  a  convenient  height  for  seeing 
your  teeth  while  cleaning  them. 

On  the  toilet  table  keep  always  your  dressing-case,  your 
bottles  of  cologne,  Florida  water,  &c.,  and  a  large  pincushion, 
filled  with  pins  of  different  sizes,  including  some  that  are  very 
long  and  stout,  for  the  purpose  of  pinning  shawls. 

The  best  pins  are  those  with  pewter  heads,  as  they  do  not  come 
off,  like  the  wire  heads.  In  buying  black  pins,  try  several  to 
see  if  they  have  good  points  and  go  in  smoothly ;  as  many  of 
them  (particularly  what  they  call  the  jet-black)  are  so  rough  and 
blunt  as  to  be  useless.  Those  of  a  bluish  tinge  are  preferable. 
The  little  minikin  pins  are  very  useful  for  ribbons,  frills,  &c. 

In  building  a  large  house,  it  is  very  customary  to  connect  a 
private  dressing-room  with  each  of  the  principal  chambers. 
This  room  ought  to  have  a  good  light,  and  also  a  fire-place ; 
and  should  of  course  contain  whatever  may  be  wanted  for  the 
purposes  of  washing  and  dressing.  But  in  most  American 
houses  the  business  of  the  toilet  is  still  performed  in  the  sleep- 
ing-rooms. 


WASHING-STANDS,  TABLES,  &c.— The  most  elegant 
washing-stands  are  of  mahogany,  with  marble  tops ;  they  gene- 
rally having  a  closet  underneath.  To  any  washing-stand,  (even 
to  the  plain  ones  that  are  made  simply  in  the  form  of  a  table, 
with  a  drawer,  and  a  shelf  below,)  a  marble  top  is  useful  as  well 
as  ornamental ;  mahogany  or  stained  wood  becoming  very  soon 
disfigured  with  wet  and  soap-stains.  There  should  be  sufficient 
space  on  the  top  of  the  washing-stand  for  a  large  basin,  a 
large  pitcher,  a  water-bottle  that  holds  at  least  a  quart,  a 
26 


302 


THE    HOUlSE  BOOK. 


glass  tumbler  and  a  china  mug;  and  also  space  to  ac- 
commodate the  different  china  receptacles  for  soap,  tooth- 
brushes, nail-brushes,  &c.  Under  it  or  near  it  a  deep  foot- 
bath should  be  placed.  These  are  either  of  white  ware,  or 
to  match  the  basin  and  pitchers.  On  the  left  side  have  a 
wooden  stand,  (something  like  a  circular  stool,)  to  elevate 
the  slop-bucket  about  a  foot  from  the  floor,  which  otherwise 
will  be  in  danger  of  much  splashing.  A  slop-bucket,  for 
receiving  the  water  that  has  been  used,  is,  or  should  be,  an 
indispensable  accompaniment  to  all  washing  stands.  They  are 
sometimes  of  maple,  with  brass  hoops ;  but  we  think  painted 
tin  slop-buckets  far  better  than  those  of  wood,  as  they  can  be 
kept  clean  more  easily,  and  are  not  so  apt  to  acquire  an  unplea- 
sant smell.  On  the  left-hand  of  the  washing-stand  should  be 
placed  the  towel-horse,  which  may  be  of  mahogany,  maple,  or 
stained  wood,  having  two  bars  across ;  the  upper  bar  being  an 
inch  or  two  below  the  top,  and  the  lower  one  about  fourteen 
inches  farther  down.  If  the  second  bar  is  placed  too  low,  the 
towel  hung  on  it,  even  when  doubled,  will  trail  on  the  floor. 
The  feet  of  the  towel-horse  should  be  strong  and  heavy,  that  it 
may  not  be  easily  overset.  Towel-horses  may  be  obtained  at 
a  very  small  cost,  and  no  chamber  should  be  without  one,  as 
the  paint  of  a  chair  will  soon  become  much  defaced  by  the 
practice  of  hanging  a  wet  towel  over  the  back :  so  also  will  the 
wall.  No  towel  should  be  less  than  a  yard  long.  They  may 
be  of  linen  damask,  thick  bird's-eye  diaper,  or  of  white  hucka- 
back. The  last  is  the  best  for  common  use ;  and  if  of  the  first 
quality,  it  wears  better  than  any  other  towelling:  its  usual 
price  is  twenty-five  cents  per  yard.  Thin,  low-priced  towelling 
wears  so  badly  that  it  is  not  worth  buying ;  and  cotton  towels 
are  not  used  by  persons  of  genteel  habits.  Foot  towels  are 
usually  of  thick  unbleached  linen. 


303 


There  are  large,  deep  washing-stands,  that  contain  inside 
the  pitchers,  basins,  &c.,  and  a  broad,  shallow  slop-bucket, 
and  have  a  lid  to  open  with  hinges,  which,  when  shut  down, 
conceals  the  whole,  and  makes  it  appear  like  a  table.  These 
stands  are  used  in  libraries,  in  ofBces,  and  to  place  in  a  recess 
of  the  passage,  down  stairs,  for  the  convenience  of  washing 
hands,  without  going  above. 

There  are  low  wash-tables,  for  the  convenience  of  washing 
very  young  children.  They  are  made  of  proper  height  for  the 
low  chair  on  which  the  nurse  sits,  while  she  is  performing 
this  office.  They  have  a  shelf  beneath,  to  contain  the  pitcher ; 
and  in  the  top  is  cut  a  small  hole  for  the  soap-cup,  and  a  large 
one  for  the  basin,  which  should  be  very  capacious ;  so  that 
the  baby,  in  its  earliest  infancy,  may  be  immersed  in  it,  and 
when  older,  may  be  seated  on  the  table,  with  its  feet  in  the 
water. 

A  table,  to  use  when  writing  or  sewing,  is  an  indispensable 
article  of  furniture  to  a  chamber.  Writing  materials  ought  to 
be  kept  in  every  bed-room,  that  they  may  be  ready  for  use, 
when  wanted ;  a  work-box  will  not  be  omitted  in  an  apartment 
belonging  to  a  lady.  A  hanging  shelf,  for  books,  is  far  better 
than  to  lay  them  about  the  mantel-piece,  or  on  the  top  of  the 
bureau. 


BEDSTEADS. — In  providing  your  chambers  with  bedsteads, 
it  is  always  best  to  purchase  them  all  quite  new ;  otherwise,  you 
never  can  be  certain  of  their  being  perfectly  clean,  and  free  from 
insects  which  the  approach  of  warm  weather  may  bring  out 
For  a  large  and  handsomely  furnished  chamber,  no  bedstead 
looks  So  well  as  the  square,  high  post,  with  curtains.  "What 
are  called  French  low  post  bedsteads,  are  preferred  by  many 
persons,  who  have  an  objection  to  curtains.  We  think,  however 


304 


THE    HOUtE  BOOK. 


(to  say  nothing  of  the  dreary  and  comfortless  appearance  of  a 
curtainless  bed,  in  cold  weather,  particularly  when  a  sick  per- 
son is  lying  in  it,)  that  the  winter  climate  of  most  parts  of 
America  is  such  as  to  ren'der  curtains  highly  desirable  at  that 
season,  to  all  who  can  conveniently  procure  them.  It  is  not 
necessary  to  draw  them  closely  all  round ;  but  if  the  heads  of 
the  sleepers  were  always  screened  from  the  cold  air  of  a  cold 
room,  there  would,  perhaps,  be  fewer  tooth-aches,  rheumatic 
pains,  coughs,  and  sore-throats.  Still,  there  is  one  very  serious 
objection  to  bed-curtains,  in  the  rooms  of  children,  or  of  any 
persons  that  are  not  habitually  careful ;  the  danger  of  their 
being  set  on  fire.  When  this  accident  does  happen,  it  may 
sometimes  (if  instantly  perceived)  be  extinguished,  by  catch- 
ing up  the  end  of  the  curtain,  and  with  both  hands  squeezing 
and  crumpling  it  down  upon  the  burning  part,  so  as  to  smother 
or  crush  out  the  flame. 

Unless  the  room  is  so  small,  that  it  cannot  be  fixed  other- 
wise, no  bed  should  be  placed  with  one  side  against  the  wall, 
particularly  in  summer,  as  that  position  impedes  the  free 
circulation  of  air  round  the  sleeper,  greatly  increases  the  heat, 
and  seldom  fails  to  produce  insects.  A  room  must  indeed  be 
small  that  will  not,  by  judicious  arrangement,  allow  of  some 
space  on  both  sides  of  the  bed  ;  and  even  a  little  is  better  than 
none. 

What  are  called  canopy  beds  are  generally  placed  with  one 
side  against  the  wall,  that  a  beam  or  circular  block  may  be 
fixed  in  it,  from  which  the  curtains  are  to  descend.  This  is 
not  necessary  for  canopy  curtains,  if  the  bedstead  is  made  ac- 
cording to  a  new  and  excellent  French  fashion,  of  a  low  post 
bedstead,  with  two  high  poles  directly  opposite;  one  rising 
from  the  centre  of  the  head-board,  and  one  from  the  foot-board. 
Both  are  connected  at  the  top  by  a  corresponding  bar  or 


PUTTING    UP  BEDSTEADS. 


305 


horizontal  pole,  over  which,  the  curtains  are  arranged  hy  large, 
movable  brass  rings.  These  curtains  are  in  the  form  of  a  tent, 
only  that  they  hang  full  and  open,  both  at  the  sides  and  at 
the  head  and  foot.  They  consist  of  four  long  straight  pieces, 
having  three  breadths  in  each.  They  are  looped  up,  or  tied  at 
the  four  knobs  of  the  low  posts;  and  when  let  down,  and 
closed,  they  descend  to  the  floor.  The  head  only  of  this  bed- 
stead is  against  the  wall.  It  is  called  the  French  double  pole 
bedstead. 


TO  PUT  UP  BEDSTEADS.— The  windlass  bedsteads, 
that  are  now  so  much  in  use,  are  very  easily  put  up.  They  are 
in  four  parts ;  all  of  which  must  be  stood  up  together,  held  by 
four  persons,  and  closely  fitted  into  each  other  at  the  corners. 
Then  the  winch  or  stick  that  is  sent  with  the  bedstead  must 
be  put  into  the  hole,  at  one  of  the  sides,  and  wrenched  round 
with  a  strong  arm.  This  tightens  the  whole  of  the  wood-work, 
and  nothing  more  is  to  be  done  but  to  lace  the  sacking  tightly 
over  the  pins. 

To  put  up  a  high  four-post  bedstead,  you  must  have  the 
small  iron  instrument  called  a  bed-key.  Place  the  two  head- 
posts  near  that  part  of  the  wall  where  the  bed  is  to  stand, 
and  lay  the  foot-posts  on  the  floor,  at  a  proper  distance  below. 
The  pieces  should  all  have  marks  or  numbers,  to  designate 
those  that  match  each  other.  Place  each  foot-post  opposite  to 
its  corresponding  head-post.  Next,  lay  the  long  or  side-pieces 
in  their  proper  places,  then  the  short  or  end-pieces  that  go  at 
the  head  and  foot.  Then  put  one  long  and  one  short  screw  at 
each  corner  of  the  bedstead.  The  assistance  of  four  persons 
will  now  be  required,  to  rear  up  the  four  posts,  and  set  in  the 
sides.  Next,  slip  the  head-board  into  the  groves ;  and  then 
proceed  with  the  bed-key  to  turn  and  fasten  the  screws  firmly. 
26* 


306 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


The  four  long  screws  are  intended  to  screw  into  the  sides,  and 
the  four  short  ones  into  the  ends.  The  screw  holes  into  which 
they  are  inserted  are  under  the  little  round  brass  plates,  which 
must  be  turned  aside  to  get  at  them.  Next,  lace  up  the  sack- 
ing; to  do  which  well,  and  to  secure  its  knots  firmly,  will 
require  the  strength  of  a  man.  Finally,  get  on  the  movable 
wooden  steps,  (such  as  is  used  in  all  houses  for  putting  up 
and  taking  down  upholstery,)  and  fix  the  four  pieces  of  the  top- 
rail,  by  slipping  the  holes  at  the  end  of  each,  over  the  spikes 
at  the  top  of  each  bed-post. 

If  there  is  a  straight  cornice  at  the  top  of  the  whole,  it  is 
best  to  put  it  on  after  the  curtains  are  up. 

If  there  is  no  permanent  mark  upon  the  different  pieces  of  a 
bedstead,  mark  them  yourself,  with  a  pencil,  previous  to  taking 
them  down,  that  you  may  know  how  to  fit  them  when  put  up 
again. 

Tent  bedsteads,  with  curved  tops,  are  put  up  in  a  similar 
manner,  with  a  bed-key ;  taking  care  to  fix  firmly  the  ribs  that 
support  the  roof. 

In  summer,  a  large  bed  is  far  more  pleasant  than  a  small 
one ;  as  it  enables  you,  when  one  part  becomes  warm,  to  remove 
to  the  other,  which  is  comparatively  cool. 

BED-CURTAINS. — These  may  be  of  chintz,  damask,  rich 
silk,  or  broad-striped  dimity.  The  last  will,  of  course,  bear 
washing  perfectly  well,  but  will  also  require  it  once  at  least  in 
the  course  of  the  season ;  and  an  opportunity  of  doing  it  should 
be  taken  when  the  weather  happens  to  be  somewhat  mild. 
Cheap  and  very  well-looking  curtains  may  be  made  of  thick 
domestic  shirting  muslin,  dyed  of  a  fine  buff,  with  aronetta  and 
pot-ash,  and  trimmed  with  worsted  fringe,  or  a  binding  of 
purple,  dark  brown,  dark  green,  or  crimson ;  to  be  ripped  off 


BED-CURTAINS. 


30t 


when  washed,  which  will  not  be  necessary  before  spring.  The 
upper  valance  need  not  be  made  full.  It  will  look  very  well 
plain,  cut  into  large  deep  scollops  or  Vandykes,  the  edges  deco- 
rated with  coloured  binding  or  fringe.  Curtains  for  square  or 
high-post  beds  are  frequently  made  in  long,  straight,  full  pieces, 
without  any  drapery  or  festooning,  running  with  rings  on  a 
brass  rod  round  the  top  of  the  bed.  The  foot-valance  of  a  bed 
should  always  hang  full ;  it  is  fixed  by  tacking  the  binding 
with  small  nails  along  the  frame  of  the  bedstead. 

The  best  sort  of  chintz  curtains  are  generally  lined  with 
coloured  glazed  muslin.  This  lining  must  be  taken  out  and 
renewed  whenever  the  curtains  are  washed. 

The  bed-curtains  and  window-curtains  should  of  course  be 
of  the  same  material,  and  corresponding  in  form.  Their  colour 
should  contrast  well  with  that  of  the  wall,  which  in  chambers 
(as  in  all  other  rooms)  will  look  best  of  a  light  or  pale  tint. 

Curtains  of  figured  or  damasked  brown  linen,  though  not 
handsome,  are  very  lasting  and  economical ;  and  may  be  set 
off  with  a  bright  coloured  fringe  or  binding. 

All  curtains  ought  to  be  well  shaken  every  day,  and  frequently 
brushed  between  the  folds  with  a  hand-brush.  To  prevent  the 
dust  from  accumulating  on  the  top  or  tester,  cover  it  with  sheets 
of  cartridge  paper,  (or  very  stout  brown,)  the  edges  laid  over 
each  other.  These  will  receive  the  dust  which  would  other- 
wise lodge  and  accumulate  on  the  tester,  and  they  can  easily 
be  removed,  brushed  off,  and  returned  to  their  places.  To 
make  those  more  accessible  that  cover  the  middle  part  of  the 
tester,  the  edges  of  several  sheets  had  best  be  pasted  together 
so  as  to  form  a  large  square. 

In  summer,  after  the  curtains  are  taken  down  and  put  away, 
it  is  well,  on  a  high  post  bedstead,  to  have  a  tester  and  top- 
valance  of  dimity  or  white  muslin ;  otherwise  the  bare  posts 


308 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


and  top-rail  will  look  naked  and  ungainly.  There  should  also 
be  a  white  foot-valance  to  correspond. 

It  is  usual  at  the  head  of  the  bed,  to  have  watch-pockets  of 
the  same  material  as  the  curtains.  If  there  are  no  curtains,  the 
watch-pockets  may  be  of  velvet  or  of  buckskin. 

By  the  side  of  a  high  bed  it  is  customary  to  have  steps  for 
the  purpose  of  ascending  it  easily.  Bed  steps  are  generally  of 
mahogany,  covered  with  Brussels  carpeting. 


BEDDING— Many  persons  think  it  conducive  to  health  to 
sleep  very  hard.    This  is  only  the  case  with  peculiar  constitu- 
tions.   Generally  speaking,  most  people  will  sleep  more  com- 
fortably, and  feel  more  refreshed  afterwards,  on  a  moderately 
soft  bed  or  mattrass.   Even  in  summer,  and  in  warm  climates, 
a  mattrass  should  not  be  so  hard  as  to  have  no  elasticity.  If 
the  mattrass  is  sufficiently  thick  to  prevent  the  feather  bed 
beneath  from  rising  or  swelling  around  you,  the  proper  end  is 
answered  as  far  as  health  is  in  question;  and  certainly  the 
comfort  is  much  greater  than  if  all  beneath  you  is  so  hard  and 
compact  that  you  cannot  but  feel  as  if  sleeping  almost  on  a 
floor  of  wood  or  stone ;  as  is  often  the  case,  when  a  thick,  solid, 
hair  mattrass  has  nothing  under  it  but  one  equally  solid  of 
straw.    We  believe  there  are  few  grown  persons  who,  during  ■ 
the  severity  of  an  American  winter,  would  really  find  their 
health  impaired  by  sleeping  with  the  feather-bed  on  the  top  of 
the  mattrass ;  and  few  that,  in  the  summer,  would  find  them- 
selves too  warm  by  having  a  feather-bed,  instead  of  a  paillasse, 
underneath  a  mattrass  of  moderate  thickness.    Domestics  and 
working  people,  who  have  to  sleep  on  very  hard  bedding,  fre- 
quently complain  of  rising  in  the  morning  as  tired  as  when  they 
went  to  bed,  and  of  feeling  as  if  they  had  not  strength  to  go 


BEDDING. 


about  their  work.    Children,  no  doubt,  suffer  much  from  the 
same  cause. 

Mattrasses  of  horse-hair  are  cooler  than  those  of  wool.  The 
long  southern  moss  is  frequently  used  as  stuffing  for  mattrasses. 
The  mattrass  should  fit  the  bedstead  exactly ;  so  also  should 
the  bed. 

Linen  bed-ticking  is  far  the  best ;  that  of  cotton  stripe,  though 
lowest  in  price,  is  eventually  the  most  expensive,  as  it  lasts 
but  a  short  time,  and  the  feathers  are  continually  coming  through 
it.  When  a  tick  becomes  so  old  and  thin  as  not  to  retain  the 
feathers  well,  it  is  best  to  get  a  new  one,  as  the  daily,  loss  of 
feathers  will  soon  materially  diminish  the  si^e  of  the  bed.  It 
is  well  for  the  chambermaid  to  keep  a  paper  bag,  in  which  to 
save  the  feathers  that  she  finds  on  the  floor. 

Beds,  bolsters,  and  pillows  are  not  comfortable  unless  they 
are  large  and  full,  and  well  stuffed  with  feathers;  it  is  a  pitiful 
economy  to  put  in  so  small  a  quantity  that  they  become  nearly 
flat  as  soon  as  you  lie  down  on  them.  Each  bed  should  have 
two  pillows ;  'jjtjfd  it  is  well  to  have  some  extra  ones  in  the 
house,  in  case  of  illness.  The  bolsters  ought  to  have  white 
linen  cases,  as  well  as  the  pillows.  There  is  no  real  economy 
in  buying  cotton  sheets  and  pillow-cases,  even  for  servants' 
beds ;  as  cotton,  besides  being  very  uncomfortable  in  summer, 
lasts  but  a  short  time ;  and  when  it  begins  to  get  old,  it  tears 
unexpectedly  in  all  directions.  Linen  bedding  is  universal  in 
genteel  families ;  except  when  winter  sheets  of  thick  cotton 
may  be  preferred,  as  somewhat  warmer  in  very  cold  weather. 
For  servants'  beds,  Russia  sheeting  is  the  best  and  most  durable. 

For  a  large  double  bed,  it  is  well  to  have  each  sheet  three 
yards  long  and  two  yards  and  a  half  wide,  that  there  may  be 
plenty  to  tuck  in,  particularly  if  there  is  no  bolster-case.  To 
save  a  little  linen,  sheets  are  often  cut  out  so  short  and  so  nar- 


310 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


row,  that,  as  they  can  be  tucked  in  nowhere,  they  keep  their 
places  nowhere,  and  are  uncomfortable  all  night.  For  a  single 
bed,  the  length  must  be  the  same  as  for  a  double  one,  but  two 
yards  will  be  wide  enough.  When  a  sheet  that  has  been  long 
in  use  becomes  thin  in  the  middle,  it  may  be  turned  by  ripping 
down  the  seam,  and  then  sewing  up  the  two  outer  selvages, 
which  will  bring  together  the  strongest  and  best  part  of  each 
breadth.  All  the  bed-linen  should  be  marked  with  the  whole 
name  of  the  family ;  and  each  pair  of  sheets  and  pillow-cases 
should  have  the  same  number  or  figure,  so  as  to  designate  the 
different  sets.  In  making  pillow-cases,  let  them  be  large 
enough  to  admit  the  pillow  easily.  They  are  frequently  frilled 
at  the  ends,  and  fastened  with  buttons.  They  look  very  white 
and  nice  with  an  under-case  of  thick  white  muslin. 

Pillows  stuffed  with  bits  of  clean  paper,  cut  about  half  an 
inch  square,  are  said  to  be  very  soft  and  cool.  Hop  pillows 
are  sometimes  recommended  to  invalids,  or  persons  who  sleep 
badly.  To  repose  comfortably  on  a  square  French  pillow, 
stuffed  with  hair,  requires  some  practice. 

Except  in  very  cold  climates,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  allot 
more  than  three  blankets  to  each  bed ;  beginning  with  one  in 
the  autumn,  and  adding  the  second  and  the  third  as  the  weather 
grows  colder.  The  blankets  should  be  larger  every  way  than 
the  bed,  to  allow  for  tucking  in,  and  for  turning  down  at  the 
head.  Blankets  of  the  best  quality  will  last  many  years.  At 
the  close  of  spring  they  should  always  be  washed  before  they 
art  put  away.  Where  the  winters  are  very  severe,  eider  down 
quilts  and  cotton  comfortables  are  frequently  used,  in  addition 
to  one  or  two  blankets. 


TO  KEEP  BLANKETS  THROUGH  THE  SUMMER. 
■Spread  a  large  coarse  sheet  on  the  floor.    Fold  up  the  blan.- 


BED  COVERS. 


311 


kets  and  place  them  on  it,  having  sprinkled  between  every  fold 
either  shreds  of  tobacco,  or  bits  of  camphor.  Shavings  of 
Russia  leather  are  also  a  remedy  against  moths.  Having  piled 
the  blankets  smoothly,  put  the  remainder  of  the  sheet  round 
them  and  over  them,  and  pin  it  up  tightly  in  various  places. 
Then  lay  the  whole  in  a  large  chest  or  in  a  dark  closet.  Let 
them  remain  unopened  all  summer.  In  the  autumn,  after  the 
warm  weather  is  entirely  over,  have  the  blankets  all  brought 
down  on  a  fine  dry  day,  and  hang  them  out  on  lines  to  dispel 
the  scent  of  the  tobacco,  if  you  have  used  it  as  a  preservative. 

In  putting  away  your  blankets,  always  leave  out  a  few, 
(allowing  one  for  each  bed,)  in  case  of  a  very  cool  night,  such 
as  sometimes  occurs  in  the  summer  season,  and  also  that  they 
may  be  at  hand  to  begin  with,  as  soon  as  the  warm  weather 
is  over. 


BED  COVERS.— White  Marseilles  quilts  keep  clean  much 
longer  than  the  knotted  white  counterpanes.  They  are  not, 
however,  so  durable ;  as  the  surface  of  a  Marseilles  quilt,  being 
fine  and  thin,  soon  wears  off.  They  may  afterwards  be  covered 
with  an  outside  of  fine,  white,  thick  muslin,  and  quilted  over 
again.  Patch-work  quilts  of  old  calico  are  only  seen  in  inferior 
chambers ;  but  they  are  well  worth  making  for  servants'  beds. 
The  custom  of  buying  new  calico,  to  cut  into  various  ingenious 
figures,  for  what  was  called  handsome  patch-work,  has  become 
obsolete.  Quilts  are  now  made  entirely  of  the  same  sort  of 
dark  calico  or  furniture  chintz ;  the  breadths  being  run  together 
in  straight  seams,  stuffed  with  cotton,  lined  with  plain  white 
or  buff-dyed  thick  muslin,  and  quilted  simply  in  diamonds, 
shells,  or  waves.  For  a  large  double  bed,  a  quilt  or  any  other 
cover  should  be  three  yards  long,  and  about  three  yards 
wide.   It  is  usual  to  have  a  quilt  or  bed-spread  of  the  same 


312 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


fchintz  as  the  curtains.  For  very  elegant  beds,  the  covers  are 
generally  of  silk  or  damask,  (also  to  match  the  curtains,)  with 
a  silk  lining,  and  a  trimming  of  fringe  to  correspond. 

Summer  bed-covers  are  usually  of  furniture  chintz  or  of 
dimity,  with  a  binding  all  round:  and,  if  you  choose,  a  cotton 
fringe.  They  should  have  no  lining,  or  they  will  be  too  warm 
for  the  season.  In  many  families,  unlined  spreads  of  furniture 
chintz  are  used  in  winter  as  well  as  in  summer,  depending  for 
warmth  on  a  sufficiency  of  blankets.  This  we  think  a  good 
plan,  as  it  enables  you  more  easily  to  regulate  the  covering 
according  to  the  temperature  of  the  weather. 

The  old-fashioned  country  coverlets,  woven  of  coloured  yarn, 
are  still  used  in  country  houses.  They  have  the  advantage  of 
being  light  as  well  as  warm,  are  extremely  durable,  and  wash 
well.    It  is  best  to  have  little  or  no  white  in  them. 


WASHING  A  COLOURED  QUILT.— Make,  in  a  very 
large  tub,  a  suds  of  brown  soap  and  water  that  is  not  very  warm ; 
adding  a  small  tea-cupful  of  ox-gall  to  set  the  colours  of  the 
calico.  Put  in  the  quilt,  and  wash  it  well.  Afterwards  wash 
it  through  a  second  suds,  and  wring  it  very  dry.  Then  rinse 
it  through  three  cold  waters,  wringing  it  very  hard  out  of  the 
last.  Hang  it  immediately  out  to  dry,  with  the  wrong  side 
outwards.  An  hour  or  two  before  evening,  turn  the  right  side 
out.  Take  it  in  at  sunset,  and  fold  it  up.  Next  morning,  hang 
it  out  again ;  as  one  day  (even  in  summer)  is  not  sufficient  to 
dry  a  quilt  thoroughly,  the  cotton  with  which  it  is  stufFed 
remaining  damp  a  long  time  in  the  inside.  Towards  the  end 
of  the  second  day  bring  it  in,  fold  it  up,  and  (if  it  is  perfectly 
dry)  put  it  away.  A  quilt  cannot  be  ironed.  It  is  best  to 
wash  them  late  in  the  spring,  when  they  are  no  longer  required 
for  the  beds ;  they  will  then  be  ready  for  the  cold  weather. 


WASHING    QUILTS,  ETC. 


313 


In  a  similar  manner  you  may  wash  a  chintz  bed-spread,  in 
two  lake-warm  lathers,  (as  hot  water  will  certainly  fade  it,) 
with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ox-gall  stirred  into  the  first  suds. 
A  spread  (being  single)  will  dry  much  sooner  than  a  quilt,  and 
must  be  sprinkled  and  folded,  and  afterwards  ironed  on  the 
wrong  side. 


TO  WASH  A  MARSEILLES  QUILT,  OR  A  WHITE 
COUNTERPANE.— Put  it  to  soak  over-night  in  a  large  tub 
with  luke-warm  water,  (in  which  has  been  mixed  about  a  quart 
of  lye,)  and  rub  some  brown  soap  on  the  quilt.  Next  morning, 
wash  it  up  and  down  a  while  in  the  soaking  water ;  then  wring 
it  out,  and  put  it  into  a  clean  tub  of  warm  soap-suds,  and  give 
it  a  good  washing.  Then  do  the  same  through  a  second  suds, 
(hotter  than  the  first,)  and  wring  it  out  very  hard.  Rinse  it 
through  three  cold  waters;  adding  to  the  last  a  little  blue  from 
the  indigo  bag.  Having  wrung  the  counterpane  very  dry,  hang 
it  out  in  the  sun,  wrong  side  outward ;  taking  it  in  towards 
evening.  Next  day,  hang  it  out  again,  with  the  right  side  out. 
It  may  probably  take  three  days  to  dry  completely.  It  must 
on  no  account  be  put  away  with  the  slightest  dampness  about  it. 

In  washing  a  quilt  or  counterpane,  never  use  soda. 

TO  MAKE  COTTON  COMFORTABLES.— These  are 
soft  thick  quilts,  used  as  substitutes  for  blankets,  and  laid  under 
the  bed-spread.  One  of  them  is  equal  in  warmth  to  three  heavy 
blankets ;  and  they  are  excellent  in  cold  winters  for  persons 
who  like  to  sleep  extremely  warm.  In  chambers  with  fire,  or 
in  a  room  that  has  had  a  fire  all  day,  a  comfortable  will  gene- 
rally be  found  too  warm  a  covering,  except  in  severe  weather. 
It  is  best  to  use  them  in  cold  apartments  only.  If  the  house 
should  be  crowded  with  guests,  so  as  to  pause  a  scarcity  of 
27 


314 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


beds,  a  thick  comfortable  maybe  found  a  convenient  substitute 
for  a  mattrass. 

Early  in  the  spring,  all  the  comfortables  belonging  to  the 
house  should  be  washed  and  put  away  till  winter. 

A  comfortable  for  a  large  or  double  bed  ought  to  be  three 
yards  long  and  three  yards  wide.  You  may  make  it  of  glazed 
coloured  muslin,  (in  which  case  it  cannot  be  washed,)  or  of  fur- 
niture chintz,  or  cheap  calico.  It  is  best  to  have  both  the  lining 
and  the  outside  of  the  same  material.  Having  run  the  breadths 
together,  place  it  in  a  quilting-frame,  and  lay  on  the  cotton  bats 
thickly  and  evenly,  each  one  a  very  little  over  the  edge  of  the 
other.  A  comfortable  of  the  above  size  will  require  three 
pounds  of  carded  cotton  bats.  It  should  be  quilted  in  very  large 
diamonds,  laid  out  with  chalk  and  a  long  ruler,  or  with  a  cord 
line  dipped  in  raw  starch,  wetted  to  a  thin  paste  with  cold 
water.  In  quilting  a  comfortable,  you  need  not  attempt  to  take 
close,  short  stitches. 

In  laying  the  cotton  between  the  lining  and  the  outside,  leave 
wistuffed  about  half  a  yard  on  each  side  and  at  the  bottom ;  but 
continue  the  stuffijig  quite  up  to  the  top  or  head  of  the  comfort- 
able. Let  the  thin  part,  however,  be  quilted  the  same  as  the 
rest.  By  thus  leaving  a  thin  border  round  the  sides  and  bottom, 
you  prevent  the  inconvenience  so  often  objected  to  comfortables, 
their  tendency  to  slip  oiF  the  bed ;  as  the  thin  part  can  be  easily 
tucked  in,  so  as  to  secure  it  perfectly  from  all  danger  of  sliding 
out  of  place. 

TO  MAKE  A  SILK  QUILT.— This  is  a  light  and  con- 
Veiiient  article  for  a  couch  or  for  a  child's  crib,  and  will  be 
found  extremely  useful  in  a  sick-room.  It  can  be  made  very 
economically  out  of  two  silk  dresses,  after  the  bodies  are  past 
wear.   Take  the  two  skirts  and  (first  removing  with  Wilming- 


MAKING    SILK    QUILTS,  ETC. 


315 


ton  clay  any  grease-spots  that  may  be  on  them)  rip  them  apart, 
turn  them,  and  sew  them  together  again.  You  may  add  to  the 
length  by  taking  the  two  sleeves,  (if  they  are  wide  enough,) 
ripping  them  open,  and  joining  them  across  the  top  of  the 
breadths.  After  all  the  silk  has  been  turned  and  re-sewed, 
sprinkle  and  fold  it,  and  iron  it  on  the  wrong  side,  pressing  the 
seams  well.  Take  care  that  the  irons  are  not  very  hot,  or  they 
will  discolour  the  silk.  Then  put  it  into  a  quilting  frame,  and 
lay  in  one  thickness  of  the  glazed  cotton  wadding  in  sheets. 
Quilt  it  in  large  diamonds. 

In  most  families,  at  least  one  quilt  a  year  might  be  made  of 
left-off  silk  dresses,  exclusive  of  those  that  may  be  converted 
into  petticoats.  The  skirts  of  two  silk  dresses  will  make  a 
very  good  winter  petticoat,  interlining  them  with  cotton  wad- 
ding. They  should  first  be  ripped  apart,  ironed  smoothly,  and 
turned.  If  you  have  not  a  quilting-frame  at  hand,  you  may 
quilt  a  petticoat  on  a  large  table,  or  by  spreading  it  on  a  bed. 
The  most  convenient  way  will  be  to  quilt  the  breadths  sepa- 
rately, (each  with  its  wadding  and  lining,)  and  then  to  sew 
them  together  afterwards.  They  should  be  quilted  in  large 
diamonds,  with  three  or  four  straight  rows  along  the  bottom  of 
the  petticoat,  which  ought  afterwards  to  be  bound  with  very 
stout  ribbon  or  broad  galloon. 

A  wadded  petticoat  may  be  made  without  quilting,  by  tack- 
ing or  basting  the  sheets  of  wadding  to  the  lining,  as  is  done 
in  making  a  cloak  or  a  pelisse.  It  should  be  basted  with  very 
strong  sewing-silk  in  long  needlefuls ;  taking  care  to  tie  firmly 
the  end  of  every  fresh  needleful  to  the  end  left  of  the  last. 
Run  several  straight  rows  along  the  bottom  after  you  have  put 
on  the  outside  silk. 


316 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


TO  MAKE  UP  A  BED.— As  soon  as  the  bed  is  vacated, 
fasten  back  the  curtains,  (if  there  are  any,)  and  let  the  clothes 
be  all  taken  off,  and  spread  separately  over  the  chairs ;  the  pil- 
lows and  bolsters  placed  near  the  v^indows,  and  the  bed  turned 
up  towards  the  head,  or  pulled  down  at  the  foot,  so  as  to  expose 
the  sacking  to  the  air.  This  should  be  done  by  the  occupant 
of  the  bed,  immediately  on  rising,  before  she  begins  to  wash 
and  dress.  The  sashes  should  be  raised,  (unless  the  weather 
is  rainy,)  and  the  room  ought  to  be  thoroughly  ventilated,  for 
at  least  an  hour,  even  in  the  winter  season.  If  the  weather 
is  such,  that  rain  or  snow  is  likely  to  come  in  at  the  windows, 
on  quitting  the  room  leave  the  door  open,  or  at  least  a-jar,  that 
as  much  air  may  be  admitted  as  possible.  The  atmosphere  of 
no  apartment  can  be  wholesome,  unless  it  is  well  ventilated,  at 
least  once  a  day.  Besides  which,  a  room  continually  closed, 
and  a  bedstead,  from  which  the  bedding  is  not  removed  till  the 
moment  before  it  is  to  be  made  up,  will  infallibly  produce  in- 
sects. The  sashes  should  be  kept  raised,  while  the  bed  is 
making. 

When  the  bed  is  sufficiently  aired,  turn  it  over,  and  with 
both  hands,  take  it  by  the  middle,  and  shake  it  well  in  every 
part,  and  smooth  it  evenly :  taking  care  not  to  have  it  higher  at 
the  foot,  than  at  the  head.  If  there  is  a  mattrass  above  the 
bed,  turn  up  the  lower  half  of  the  mattrass,  and  shake  up  that 
part  of  the  bed ;  then  turn  down  the  upper  half  of  the  mattrass, 
and  shake  and  smooth  the  upper  part  of  the  bed ;  and  then  fix 
the  mattrass  evenly.  Next,  spread  on  the  under  sheet,  tucking 
it  in  all  round  under  the  sides  of  the  mattrass ;  so  as  to  keep  it 
smooth  and  even,  and  to  prevent  its  wrinkling,  dragging,  and 
getting  out  of  place  during  the  night.  If  it  has  a  white  linen 
case,  shake  up  the  bolster  well,  and  lay  it  on  after  the  under 
sheet.    If  it  has  no  case,  draw  up  this  sheet  more  to  the  head, 


MAKING    UP    A  BED. 


319 


and  tuck  it  well  over  the  back  of  the  bolster,  but  do  not  stretch 
the  under-sheet  tightly,  so  as  to  drag  the  bolster  down  at  night, 
causing  it  to  get  beneath  the  shoulders  of  the  sleeper.  Lay  it 
easy,  and  pat  it  with  your  hands  into  the  hollow  between  the 
bolster  and  the  bed.  Next,  spread  on  the  upper-sheet,  tucking 
it  well  under  at  the  bottom,  lest  it  get  loose  and  out  of  place 
•at  night.  You  need  not  tuck  it  at  the  two  sides,  as  you  did  ' 
the  under-sheet.  Then,  if  there  are  blankets,  lay  them  on 
smoothly,  securing  them  in  place  by  tucking  them  in  at  the 
bottom  and  at  the  lower  corners.  Next,  put  on  the  spread  or 
counterpane,  taking  care  to  have  it  smooth  and  even,  and  turn- 
ing it  down  at  the  head  with  the  upper-sheet.  Then  beat  up 
the  pillows  and  lay  them  in  their  places,  the  open  ends 
outwards. 

Before  you  sweep  the  room,  it  will  be  well  to  cover  the 
whole  of  the  bed  with  an  old  sheet,  or  something  of  the  sort, 
kept  for  the  purpose  in  a  closet.  This  will  screen  the  bed  from 
the  dust. 

If  the  counterpane  is  white,  fold  it  up  on  the  wrong  side, 
and  do  not  put  it  on  the  bed,  till  after  the  room  is  swept  and 
dusted.  If  there  are  curtains,  keep  them  fastened  back,  and 
take  up  the  long  ends  of  the  falls,  and  place  them  on  the  bed, 
that  they  may  be  out  of  the  way  while  you  are  sweeping  and 
dusting.  Also  turn  up  the  valance.  After  the  room  is  swept, 
the  curtains  should  be  well  shaken,  and  the  dust  brushed  out 
of  the  folds  with  a  hand-brush.  M  least  once  a  week,  the 
upper  part  and  the  tester  should  be  brushed  thoroughly.  You 
can  reach  them,  by  standing  on  the  bed-steps,  (if  there  are 
any,)  or  on  the  movable  steps  with  which  most  houses  are 
provided,  or  by  getting  on  a  high  chair.  If  dust  is  allowed  to 
accumulate  in  bed-curtains,  it  will  cause  bugs. 

Of  course,  the  bed  must  always  be  made  before  the  room  is 
27* 


318 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


swept.  But  if  there  is  to  be  a  fire  in  the  room,  that  should  be 
kindled  first,  and  the  hearth  put  in  order  before  any  thing 
else  is  done. 

In  some  families,  it  is  the  custom  to  have  in  each  chamber 
a  small  deep  tub  painted  white ;  and  a  large  stone  pitcher  of 
warm  water,  is  left  every  morning  at  the  room  door.  By  this 
means,  a  tepid  bath  can  be  taken  immediately  on  rising;  and, 
this,  to  some  constitutions,  is  more  conducive  to  health  than  a 
cold  bath,  particularly  in  warm  weather. 


CLEANING  A  BED-ROOM.— If  a  fire  is  to  be  made  in 
the  chamber,  that,  of  course,  must  be  done  the  first  thing, 
taking  up  and  carrying  away  the  ashes,  sweeping  the  hearth, 
(which  must  afterwards  be  washed  with  a  wet  cloth,)  and  if 
it  is  a  coal-grate,  putting  up  the  blower.  Next,  if  there  is  a 
hearth-rug,  or  loose  bed-side  carpets,  take  them  up,  fold  them, 
and  lay  them  in  the  passage  or  out  in  the  balcony,  till  they  can 
be  carried  into  the  yard  and  shaken.  Having  washed  your 
hands,  proceed  to  make  the  bed.  It  is  well,  instead  of  putting 
on  the  counterpane  at  once,  to  fold  it  wrong  side  out,  and  lay 
it  in  that  manner  on  the  bed,  till  the  sweeping  and  dusting  is 
over.  Cover  the  whole  bed  (bolster  and  pillows  also)  with  a 
large  old  sheet  or  something  of  the  sort,  kept  for  the  purpose 
of  screening  the  bedding  from  dust  while  the  room  is  cleaning. 
Then,  having  brought  with  you  a  large  painted  tin  slop-bucket 
with  a  close  cover,  empty  all  the  slops,  and  replace  the  cover. 
Throw  a  towel  over  the  empty  pitchers,  &c.,  to  keep  the  dust 
out  of  them.  It  will  then  be  time  to  take  down  the  blower. 
The  next  thing  is  to  sweep  the  room,  beginning  under  the  bed, 
which  should  be  moved  out  if  you  cannot  otherwise  make  clean 
the  floor  beneath.  A  damp  mop  is  an  excellent  thing  for  collect- 
ing and  bringing  out  the  flue  from  under  the  bed,  wardrobe,  &c. 


CLEANING   BED-ROOMS.  319 

Also,  sweep  carefully  under  the  drawers,  tables,  &c.,  and  behind 
the  trunks  or  boxes,  leaving  no  dust  or  cobwebs  in  the  corners 
of  the  room. 

If  there  are  clippings,  scraps  of  paper,  or  threads  about  the 
carpet,  pick  them  up  before  you  begin  to  sweep.    When  you 
have  nearly  done,  open  the  door,  at  which  you  should  have  a 
tin  dust-pan  and  a  hand-brush,  and  sweep  into  the  pan  all  the 
dust,  &c.,  from  the  room.    By  the  time  you  have  carried  away 
the  slop-bucket  and  the  dust-pan,  the  loose  dust  that  has  been 
raised  by  the  broom  will  have  settled.  Then,  with  a  soft  dust- 
ing-cloth, go  first  over  the  surbase,  not  forgetting  the  door-lock, 
door-panels,  and  window-frames,  and  then  over  all  the  furniture ; 
shaking  your  cloth  frequently  out  of  the  window,  the  sash  of 
which  should  be  open  all  the  time  you  are  doing  the  room.  Shake 
the  curtains  well ;  and  if  there  are  Venetian  blinds,  dust  the 
slats  as  high  as  you  can  reach.    Dust  also  the  mantel-piece, 
fire-irons,  &c.   For  the  looking-glass  and  pictures  have  a  clean 
cloth.    When  you  have  thoroughly  dusted  every  thing  in  the 
room,  bring  some  warm  water  and  two  clean  cloths,  and  wash 
and  wipe  (inside  and  out)  all  the  crockery  belonging  to  the 
apartment,  beginning  with  the  glasses  and  pitchers,  and  not 
forgetting  the  receptacles  for  the  soap  and  the  tooth-brushes. 
Then,  having  wiped  the  washing-stand,  set  every  thing  in  its 
place,  and  arrange  nicely  all  the  articles  on  the  toilet,  the  table, 
and  the  mantel-piece.    Afterwards  bring  back  and  lay  down 
the  loose  carpets,  spread  the  counterpane  properly  on  the  bed, 
and  arrange  the  curtains.    Next,  bring  in  a  large  clean  bucket 
of  fresh  water,  (which  should  be  furnished  either  with  a  tin 
dipper  or  a  spout,)  and  fill  the  pitchers  and  water-bottle.  Hang 
clean  towels  on  the  towel-horse,  leaving  there  the  wet  one  that 
has  been  made  use  of  that  morning,  spread  out  to  dry.    It  may 
be  used  during  the  day  by  the  occupant  of  the  chamber,  for  any 


320 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


purpose  for  which  it  might  not  be  necessary  to  take  a  perfectly- 
clean  towel.  Besides  the  fine  towels,  there  should  be  on  the 
horse  a  thick  one  for  washing  the  feet.  If  it  is  summer,  bow 
the  shutters  or  let  down  the  blinds  before  you  leave  the 
room. 

In  the  evening,  after  tea,  go  round  to  all  the  rooms  with  your 
slop-bucket,  empty  the  things,  and  then  bring  fresh  water  to 
replenish  the  pitchers.  See  that  the  horse  is  supplied  with 
clean  towels,  that  the  night-lights  are  in  order,  and  the  shutters 
fastened,  if  in  winter. 

Some  chambermaids  have  an  absurd  practice  of  filling  the 
pitchers  with  the  fresh  water  before  they  make  the  bed  and 
sweep  the  room,  instead  of  deferring  it  to  the  last.  This  should 
be  forbidden;  as,  when  done  first,  the  surface  of  the  fresh  water 
will  be  covered  with  flue  and  dust  during  the  progress  of  the 
bed-making  and  sweeping. 

In  some  families  it  is  the  custom  for  the  chambermaids  to 
have  all  the  bed-rooms  on  hand  at  once ;  first  going  round  and 
making  all  the  beds ;  then  sweeping  all  the  rooms ;  then  dust- 
ing them  all ;  and  lastly  performing  a  tour  with  the  fresh  water 
and  clean  towels.  This  is  a  most  inconvenient  practice ;  as  it 
keeps  all  the  chambers  unfinished,  and  in  disorder,  nearly  the 
whole  morning ;  so  that  not  one  of  them  can  be  occupied,  when, 
perhaps,  there  are  persons  in  the  house  who  are  particularly 
desirous  of  having  possession  of  their  rooms  as  soon  as  possible. 
The  best  and  most  convenient  way  is  completely  to  finish  the 
work  of  every  room  (including  the  fresh  water  and  clean  towels) 
before  you  begin  another.  Also,  if  done  separately,  they  are 
usually  cleaned  with  more  care  than  when  hurried  through  by 
wholesale.  If  there  are  visiters  in  the  house,  let  Iheir  chambers 
be  done  first.  The  bed-room  of  an  early  riser  may  easvly  be 
put  in  order  before  breakfast,  if  required. 


WARMING   BEDS,  ETC. 


TO  WARM  A  BED. — ^The  most  usual  manner  is  with  a 
long-handled  brass  warming-pan,  filled  with  hot  coals,  and 
moved  all  over  the  under  sheet ;  the  upper  bed-clothes  being 
turned  down  to  admit  it.  The  heat  produced  by  a  warming- 
pan  is,  however,  very  soon  gone.  A  bed  may  be  kept  warm 
much  longer  by  heating  a  brick  in  the  oven  of  a  stove,  wrapping 
it  up  cldsely  in  a  large,  thick,  old  cloth,  folded  several  times 
round  the  brick  to  prevent  its  burning  the  sheets,  and  putting 
it  into  the  bed  near  the  foot,  seeing  that  it  is  not  too  hot.  An- 
other way  of  warming  a  person  in  bed  is,  to  take  a  large  black 
bottle,  fill  it  with  hot  water,  cork  it  tightly,  wrap  a  cloth  round 
it,  and  lay  it  against  the  soles  of  the  feet;  having  ready  a 
second  bottle  of  hot  water  to  replace  the  first  when  it  becomes 
cool. 

Square  foot-covers  of  wadded  silk,  slightly  quilted,  are  excel- 
lent to  wrap  round  the  feet,  if  cold,  when  lying  down.  They 
are  still  better  if  stuffed  with  eider-down. 

There  are  little  hand-baskets,  lined  with  fur,  to  put  the  feet 
in  while  riding  in  a  carriage  when  the  weather  is  very  cold,  or 
while  on  a  sleighing  party. 

Small  portable  foot-stoves  of  perforated  tin,  set  in  a  wooden 
frame,  and  containing  a  little  iron  pan  to  be  filled  with  hot 
coals,  are  excellent  for  keeping  the  feet  warm  in  winter,  when 
sitting  still.  They  cost  but  a  trifle,  and  no  house  should  be 
without  them,  particularly  where  wood  is  burnt. 

TO  DETECT  DAMPNESS  IN  BEDS.— First  have  the 
bed  well  warmed  with  a  warming-pan.  Then,  the  moment  the 
pan  is  taken  out,  introduce  between  the  sheets  an  inverted  glass 
tumbler.  After  it  has  remained  there  a  few  minutes,  withdraw 
it.  If  the  glass  is  found  dry,  you  may  go  to  bed  without  any 
apprehensions  of  chill  or  rheumatism.    If  the  glass  is  covered 


323  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

with  drops  of  wet  or  damp  steam,  your  safest  way  will  be  to 
take  off  the  sheets  and  sleep  between  the  blankets ;  as  you  may 
most  probably  be  unable  to  obtain  a  second  pair  that  are  dryer 
than  the  first. 

Many  persons  have  caught  severe  colds  by  sleeping  on  new 
beds,  the  feathers  of  which  were  not  sufficiently  dry.  Before 
a  new  bed  is  slept  on,  it  should  be  exposed  several  days  to  the 
hot  sun,  or  warmed  in  a  stove-room. 


TO  STOP  THE  CRACKS  OF  DOORS  AND  WIN- 
DOWS.— Before  the  cold  season  commences,  the  window- 
sashes  of  the  chambers  should  be  made  tight,  and  the  doors 
secured  against  the  admission  of  currents  of  air  when  shut. 
This  will  scarcely  be  necessary  in  a  very  well  built  house, 
where  the  doors  and  windows  all  fit  perfectly,  and  where  the 
wood-work,  being  well  seasoned,  has  not  shrunk. 

Where  there  are  large  cracks  at  the  bottom  of  the  door,  have 
a  thick  slip  of  wood  nailed  on  the  floor  outside.  A  similar  slip 
may  be  nailed  along  the  side  of  the  door-case  where  it  opens. 
We  have  seen  these  laths  covered  with  green  baize  sewed  on 
tightly,  and  the  nails  driven  through  the  baize  only.  Also, 
keep  the  key  always  in  the  lock,  as  a  strong  draught  of  air 
rushes  through  an  open  key-hole.  For  inferior  rooms  you  may 
nail  a  stout  slip  of  listing  (the  selvage  of  cloth)  all  along  the 
outside  of  the  crack ;  taking  it  off  in  the  spring.  We  have 
seen,  in  old-fashioned  houses,  gilt  or  morocco  leather  (pinked 
or  scolloped  at  the  edge)  tacked  with  gilt  or  brass  nails  round 
the  crack  of  a  door ;  and  as  it  was  considered  ornamental  as 
well  as  useful,  it  was  left  there  all  summer.  A  long  narrow 
bag,  made  of  carpeting  or  thick  cloth,  and  filled  hard  with  sand, 
will  somewhat  lessen  the  draught  at  the  bottom  of  a  door,  if 
laid  on  the  floor  outside. 


NURSERIES. 


323 


For  the  outside  doors,  and  those  of  the  best  rooms  down 
stairs,  it  is  usual,  to  have  a  broad,  thick,  brass  ledge  fastened 
to  the  floor,  so  as  to  screen  the  crack  at  the  bottom  of  the  door. 

In  the  chamber  of  an  invalid,  it  is  well  to  have  a  tall,  stand- 
ing screen,  placed  just  within  the  door,  that  when  it  is  opened, 
the  rush  of  cold  air  may  be  felt  less  sensibly. 

In  a  very  severe  climate,  where  it  is  thought  best  not  to  raise 
the  sashes  during  the  winter,  they  may  be  made  air-tight,  by 
pasting  slips  of  thick  paper  over  the  cracks,  fitting  them  neatly ; 
or  by  nailing  all  round  the  window-frame,  laths  covered  with 
baize.  Some  persons  stuff  the  cracks  with  wadding,  put  in 
with  the  point  of  a  knife  or  scissors.  There  is  frequently,  how- 
ever, great  difficulty  in  removing  the  wadding  in  the  spring ; 
bits  of  it  working  in  so  far,  and  sticking  in  so  fast,  as  to  pre- 
vent the  sash  from  going  up  and  down.  A  window-sash  may 
be  kept  very  tight,  by  merely  sticking  into  the  cracks,  several 
little  wedges  of  wood  two  or  three  inches  long,  about  an  inch  and 
a  half  wide,  and  shaved  quite  thin  towards  one  of  the  ends. 
Any  boy  can  make  them  out  of  a  slip  of  thin  board.  They 
can  be  pulled  out  in  a  minute,  when  it  is  necessary  to  raise  the 
sash,  and  replaced  as  easily  when  it  is  shut  down. 

In  the  north,  most  of  the  windows  are  made  with  double 
sashes,  as  preventives  to  draughts  of  cold  air. 

NURSERIES.— -The  children's  apartment  is  too  frequently 
one  of  the  least  comfortable  in  the  house,  being  either  a  damp 
gloomy  division  of  the  basement  story,  or  else  a  narrow  room 
in  what  is  called  the  back  building,  excessively  warm  in  sum- 
mer, by  reason  of  its  having  a  low  ceiling,  and  windows  facing 
the  beams  of  the  afternoon  sun.  It  is  important  to  the  health 
of  all  children,  that  the  nursery  should  be  large,  airy,  and 
cheerful  in  its  aspect ;  and  that  it  should  be  comfortably  warm 


324 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


in  winter,  and  cool  in  summer.  If  it  opens  into  a  balcony,  so 
much  the  better.  If  not,  the  children  should  be  secured  from 
the  danger  of  falling  out,  by  iron  bars  placed  across  the  lower 
part  of  the  windows.  We  have  seen  iron  window-guards  made 
very  ornamental,  by  being  cast  in  the  form  of  trellis-work,  and 
painted  green.  If  there  are  no  guards  at  the  bottom,  the  sash 
should  only  be  opened  by  letting  it  down  at  the  top. 

At  the  head  of  the  stair-case  nearest  to  the  nursery,  we  have 
seen  a  gate  like  that  of  a  paling  fence,  with  a  fastening  that 
could  not  be  opened  by  a  small  child ;  and  all  the  bars  or  laths 
were  perpendicular,  to  prevent  the  possibility  of  climbing  on 
them. 

The  nursery  fender  shpuld  be  very  high,  and  firmly  fixed,  so 
as  not  to  be  easily  removed  or  overset.  If  there  is  a  close 
stove  let  it  be  surrounded  by  a  high  screen  of  block  tin.  The 
tables  should  have  no  sharp  corners ;  neither  should  there  be 
projecting  shelves  within  reach  of  the  children's  heads;  nor 
any  hooks  or  nails  in  the  lower  part  of  the  wall.  Have  a  suffi- 
cient number  of  low  chairs  and  stools,  and  a  small  low  table, 
on  which  the  children  can  "  make  their  feasts."  There  should 
be  a  closet,  in  which  all  their  play-thmgs  may  be  collected 
and  put  away  at  night.  Slight  gaudy  toys,  that  are  merely 
for  show,  afford  no  amusement  to  children.  They  do  not  like 
play-things  that  they  cannot  play  with.  A  rag-doll,  (as  babies 
of  stuffed  linen  are  most  disrespectfully  called,)  with  plain 
clothes,  that  can  be  put  on  and  taken  off  at  pleasure,  and 
washed  when  dirty,  and  that  can  be  thrown  about  without 
danger  of  injury,  will  give  far  more  enjoyment  to  a  little  girl, 
than  a  splendid,  but  fragile  effigy  of  wax  or  plaster,  in  habili- 
ments of  satin,  and  gauze,  and  spangles :  very  showy,  but  every 
part  of  the  dress  sewed  on  fast,  and  immovable.  Miniature 
articles  of  crockery,  tin,  and  wooden  ware;  nine-pins;  blocks 


THE    ATTICS.  325 

for  building  houses ;  little  carts ;  wheelbarrows,  &c. ;  are  always 
interesting  and  agreeable  to  children ;  most  of  whom  also  take 
great  pleasure  in  a  slate  and  pencil.  Their  slates  should  be 
small,  (of  six.  cent  size,  for  instance,)  and  furnished  with  two 
long  twine  strings,  one  for  the  pencil,  and  one  for  a  bit  of 
sponge.  We  cannot  but  think,  that  if  every  child,  at  two  years 
old,  was  supplied  with  a  slate  and  pencil,  every  child  would 
teach  itself  enough  of  drawing,  to  lay  a  good  foundation  for 
the  acquirement  of  that  useful  and  delightful  art,  when  culti- 
vated at  a  later  period.  We  have  seen  very  intelligible  sketches 
on  the  slate,  made  by  children  of  four  and  five  years  old ;  and 
m  every  instance,  the  same  young  persons  have  drawn  admi- 
rably, by  the  time  they  were  fourteen  or  fifteen. 

THE  ATTICS. — The  attic  or  upper  rooms  of  a  three  story 
house  are  generally  appropriated  to  the  domestics.  It  is  well 
that  at  least  one  of  these  rooms  should  have  a  fire  place,  in 
which  (where  coal  is  burned)  a  small  cheap  grate  may  be  set. 
Upper  rooms  where  wood  is  burned  in  an  open  fire-place,  are 
very  apt  to  smoke,  from  the  shortness  of  the  distance  to  the 
top  of  the  chimney.  Where  there  is  no  fire-place,  there  should 
be  a  hole  made  in  the  chimney  part  of  the  wall,  for  the  admis- 
sion of  a  stove-pipe ;  as  a  small  close  stove,  either  for  wood  or 
coal,  may  be  found  necessary  in  case  of  sickness,  or  if  the 
room  should  chance  to  be  for  a  while  occupied  by  one  of  the 
members  of  the  family.  In  well-finished  attics,  there  are  fre- 
quently shutters  to  the  windows.  If  there  are  no  shutters,  the 
sun-beams  may  be  excluded,  by  thick  blinds  of  lined  wall 
paper,  or  of  stout  brown  linen,  or  even  of  strong  domestic 
cotton. 

It  is  best  to  have  a  separate  bed  for  each  of  the  domestics. 
Many  a  valuable  hired  woman  has  left  her  place,  rather  than 
28 


326 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


be  obliged  to  sleep  in  the  same  bed  with  another  female  that 
was  disagreeable  to  her.  Servant-women  who  have  just  come 
from  Europe,  not  unfrequently  arrive  with  contagious  diseases, 
produced  or  fostered  by  the  heat  and  dirtiness  of  the  steerage ; 
and  a  clean  American  female  is  justifiable  in  objecting  to  the 
risk  of  having  such  a  bed-fellow. 

Painted  low-post  bedsteads  are  best  for  the  rooms  of  the 
domestics :  who,  if  they  had  curtains,  might  very  probably  set 
them  on  fire  with  their  candles.  What  are  called  cot-bedsteads 
are  objectionable,  on  account  of  the  difficulty  in  keeping  them 
free  from  bugs.  The  sheeting  may  be  of  strong  unbleached 
linen  for  summer,  and  unbleached  domestic  cotton  in  the 
winter.  One  of  the  quilts  called  comfortables  will  give  as 
much  warmth  as  three  blankets. 

In  winter  let  there  be  a  piece  of  carpet  to  lay  down  by  the 
side  of  each  bed.    In  summer  it  will  not  be  necessary. 

Each  servant's  room  should  be  furnished  with  a  washing- 
table,  a  looking-glass,  a  table,  and  several  chairs.  In  good  houses 
there  are  generally  closets  in  the  attics.  If  there  are  no  closets, 
let  a  few  shelves  be  put  up,  and  also  some  pegs  or  large  hooks, 
on  which  they  may  hang  their  clothes,  with  a  curtain  of  thick 
calico  or  check  to  screen  them  from  the  dust. 

The  walls  of  garret-rooms  should  always  be  white-washed ; 
and  it  is  well  to  have  this  done  twice  every  summer.  While 
we  urge  the  humanity  as  well  as  the  policy  of  giving  the  ser- 
vants of  a  family  no  real  cause  to  complain  of  want  of  comfort 
in  their  sleeping-rooms,  (or  in  any  thing  else,)  we  also  suggest 
the  expediency  of  the  mistress  of  the  house  seeing  that  the 
attics  are  kept  comfortahle,  by  due  attention  being  paid  to  their 
cleanliness.  The  domestics  should  all  be  instructed  to  take 
off  the  bed-clothes  and  spread  them  out  on  chairs,  early  in  the 
morning,  as  soon  as  they  are  up;  putting  the  bolsters  and 


THE    ATTICS,  ETC. 


387 


pillows  near  the  window,  and  raising  the  sash  before  they  leave 
the  room,  so  as  to  admit  the  fresh  air.  After  the  chambermaid 
has  finished  her  work  below,  she  should  go  up  and  put  the 
attics  in  order,  sweeping  and  dusting  them  every  day.  Insects 
are  frequently  conveyed  to  the  chambers  of  the  family  upon  the 
clothes  of  servants  who  come  out  of  dirty  beds  and  dirty  garret- 
rooms. 

If  mouse-holes  are  found  in  the  attics  or  in  the  loft  above, 
they  should  be  immediately  stopped  up,  and  measures  taken  to 
destroy  the  mice ;  otherwise  these  troublesome  little  animals 
will  be  very  likely  to  find  their  way  to  the  lower  apartments. 

In  summer,  the  attics  should  be  scrubbed  at  least  once 
a  month,  and  the  bedsteads  taken  down,  examined,  and 
cleaned. 

A  bell  from  the  room  of  the  lady  of  the  house  to  that  of  the 
cook  is  indispensable,  that  she  and  the  other  domestics  may 
have  notice  when  to  rise  in  the  morning.  Many  servants, 
however,  have  the  excellent  habit  (and  it  is  easily  acquired) 
of  waking  of  themselves,  and  rising  of  their  own  accord  at 
day-light. 

SKYLIGHTS  The  sky-lights  which  are  generally  placed 

on  the  roof  to  light  the  upper  stair-case,  should  have  very  thick 
glass,  each  pane  fitting  exactly ;  else  they  are  liable  to  leak, 
and  to  be  broken  by  a  violent  rain  or  hail-storm.  They  are 
sometimes  made  with  a  hood  or  wooden  covering,  to  be  shut 
down  previous  to  a  storm.  Care  should  be  taken  that  all  the 
wood-work  of  the  sky-light  (as  well  as  the  glass)  fits  tightly ; 
otherwise  it  will  not  only  leak  from  rain,  but  from  the  melting 
of  the  snow,  when  it  thaws.  As  soon  as  the  snow  has  ceased 
falling,  some  one  should  go  up  and  remove  it  at  once  (while  it 
is  still  soft)  from  the  skylight,  which  will  otherwise  be  entirely 


328 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


darkened ;  and,  if  the  snow  freezes  on  it,  may  probably  remain 
obscured  for  some  weeks. 

On  handsome  houses  we  frequently  see  a  lantern  or  Belvidere, 
instead  of  a  common  skylight;  and  they  are  much  better,  as 
the  glass,  standing  perpendicularly,  is  in  no  more  danger  from 
rain  or  snow  than  any  of  the  other  windows. 


ENTRANCE  HALLS,  &c.— The  entry  or  hall  should  be 
kept  extremely  clean.  A  neglected  entry  will  give  strangers 
an  unfavourable  impression  of  the  house.  If  there  are  two 
doors,  one  within  the  other,  so  as  to  make  a  square  space  or 
vestibule  between,  it  is  best  to  keep  the  outer  or  street  door 
unlocked,  that  visiters  may  at  once  be  enabled  to  go  in  and 
shelter  themselves  from  the  weather ;  while  the  inner  door  is 
always  kept  fastened  with  a  dead-latch,  if  you  are  apprehensive 
of  thieves.  The  bell  being  at  the  front  door,  the  person  who 
rings  it  can  go  in,  and  wait  in  the  vestibule  till  the  servant 
comes  to  admit  him.  It  is  well,  in  the  vestibule,  to  have 
always  two  chairs  or  a  small  settee.  The  floor  (if  not  of 
marble)  is  usually  covered  with  oil-cloth;  and  a  foot-mat  is  of 
course  indispensable. 

If  the  inner  door  is  kept  always  fastened,  each  of  the  princi- 
pal members  of  the  family  should  furnish  themselves  with  keys 
for  the  dead-latch,  getting  them  made  by  a  locksmith  after  the 
pattern  of  the  first  key. 

In  the  passage,  beyond  the  inner  door,  let  the  hat-rack  and 
umbrella-stand  be  placed,  and  near  them  a  row  of  brass  hooks, 
fixed  at  a  proper  height  for  hanging  up  gentlemen's  cloaks  and 
surtouts.    The  best  hat-racks  are  those  with  a  mirror. 

There  should  be  a  settee  or  a  few  chairs  in  the  entry,  that 
persons  waiting  there  may  have  an  opportunity  of  sitting  down. 
In  the  recess  near  the  stair-case  have  a  table  or  shelf  to  hold 


ENTRANCE    HALLS,  ETC. 


3ZQ 


the  small  chamber  lamps  in  the  evening,  with  a  larger  lamp 
always  burning,  by  which  to  light  them  when  wanted.  If  the 
drawing-rooms  are  up  stairs,  two  hanging  lamps  will  be  neces- 
sary, one  to  light  the  passage  below,  and  one  for  that  above. 

As  there  are  no  pictures  or  curtains  to  be  set  off  by  the  con 
trast  of  a  sober-coloured  wall,  the  walls  of  the  entry  and  staii 
case  may  be  painted  pale  blue,  or  light  green,  lemon  yellow, 
blossom  colour,  or  cream  colour.  If  the  hall  is  wide  and  light, 
it  is  usual  to  hang  it  with  large  maps  on  rollers ;  for  instance, 
one  of  the  United  States,  one  of  the  state  you  inhabit,  one  of 
Europe,  and  one  of  the  world. 

Some  persons,  in  summer,  shade  the  fan-lights  of  the  front 
and  back  door  with  green  paper  cut  to  fit  exactly,  and  fastened 
up  with  small  headless  tacks.  These  paper-screens  are  in- 
tended to  prevent  the  sun-beams  from  fading  the  carpet ;  but 
they  darken  the  passage  extremely. 

The  servant  that  attends  the  front  door  should  have  general 
orders  to  go  immediately,  as  soon  as  the  bell  rings.  And  on 
opening  the  door,  he  is  not  to  hide  behind  it  when  giving  an 
answer,  as  if  ashamed  to  be  seen.  If  decently  dressed,  (as  he 
always  ought  to  be,)  there  is  no  cause  for  shame.  He  should  give 
an  answer  at  once,  without  stopping  first  to  stare  at  the  stranger ; 
and  without  hesitating,  as  if  coining  a  falsehood.  The  highly 
reprehensible  custom  of  ladies,  when  they  did  not  wish  to  see 
visiters,  ordering  their  domestics  to  deny  their  being  at  home, 
is  now  very  properly  exploded  in  good  society.  The  servant 
is  directed  to  say  that  the  ladies  are  engaged,  or  that  "  they  do 
not  see  company  to-day."  When  this  is  understood,  the  domes- 
tic that  opens  the  door,  is  not  to  pause  and  say  that  "  he  will 
go  and  see,'.'  but  he  will  reply  promptly  as  he  has  been  told. 

When  the  family  are  at  home,  and  intend  to  receive  their 
friends,  the  servant  in  showing  a  lady  or  gentleman  to  the 
28* 


330 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


drawing-room,  should  inquire  the  name, of  the  visitor,  and  an- 
nounce it  as  he  holds  open  the  door,  that  those  within  may  know 
who  is  coming.  If  none  of  the  family  are  in  the  drawing- 
room,  he  is,  on  showing  in  the  stranger,  (a  lady,  for  instance,) 
to  place  a  chair  near  the  fire,  if  it  is  winter :  or  to  invite  her  to 
take  a  seat  on  the  sofa,  if  it  is  summer.  If  the  room  is  dark, 
he  is  to  open  the  shutters,  or  turn  the  blinds,  so  as  to  give 
sufficient  light.  He  is  then  to  inquire  the  name  of  the  lady, 
that  he  may  inform  those  of  the  family,  which  of  their  friends 
they  may  expect  to  see.  When  the  lady  is  about  to  depart,  he 
will  be  at  hand  immediately  after  hearing  the  parlour-bell,  to 
go  forward  and  open  the  street-door  for  her. 

There  should  be  mats  at  each  of  the  passage  doors,  and  at 
each  parlour  door.  For  the  latter,  mats  of  shaggy  wool,  like 
a  sheep-skin,  are  much  in  use.  The  mats  should  all  be  taken 
into  the  yard,  and  shaken  and  beaten  every  day,  at  the  time  the 
entry  is  swept. 

THE  FRONT  DOOR.— It  would  be  well  if  all  door-steps 
were  furnished  with  hand-rails.  Without  them,  there  is  much 
danger  of  slipping  down  in  icy  weather,  or  at  night,  or  for  per- 
sons that  are  lame.  In  Philadelphia,  it  is  the  custom  (and  a 
very  good  one)  to  wash  them  every  day,  (using  warm  water 
in  winter,)  and  also  the  pavement  before  the  house.  A  foot- 
scraper  is  an  indispensable  appendage  to  a  front  door.  As  soon 
as  a  snow  has  done  falling,  and  before  it  has  time  to  freeze,  it 
should  be  immediately  cleared  entirely  away  from  the  door- 
steps, and  pavement.  It  is  then  an  easy  task,  but  a  very  diffi- 
cult one  after  it  has  frozen.  To  say  nothing  in  regard  to  the 
danger  of  persons  slipping  down  on  the  ice,  and  being  severely 
injured,  (of  which  there  are  instances  every  winter,)  an  icy 
door-step  or  pavement  has  a  wretched  and  slovenly  appearance. 


THE    FRONT  DOOR. 


331 


gives  a  mean  aspect  to  the  house,  and  is  altogether  inexcusable; 
for  if  you  have  not  a  man-servant  to  clear  it  away  with  a  spade 
or  large  shovel,  you  can  get  it  done  for  a  trifle  by  the  poor  men 
who  go  about  for  that  purpose  after  a  snow,  and  to  whom  such 
a  job  is  frequently  an  act  of  charity.  We  have  seen  stout 
little  boys,  the  sons  of  gentlemen,  find  great  pleasure  and  good 
exercise  in  shovelling  the  snow  from  the.  door  in  a  bright  win- 
ter morning.  Also,  let  the  pavement  and  steps  at  the  back- 
door be  cleared  from  the  snow  as  soon  as  possible.  If,  how- 
ever, the  snow  has  been  allowed  to  freeze  on  these  places,  keep 
the  ice  always  well  covered  with  ashes,  or  sprinkle  salt  on  it. 
Every  winter  there  are  limbs  broken,  and  lives  endangered, 
from  falling  on  icy  pavements  or  frozen  door-steps;  accidents 
that  would  never  happen,  if  every  citizen  did  his  duty  in  keep- 
ing his  own  premises  free  from  ice,  and  if  the  public  bodies 
were  equally  vigilant  in  having  the  snow  immediately  cleared 
away  from  the  vicinity  of  the  public  buildings. 

If  obliged  to  walk  on  snow  or  ice:  carpet  moccasins  are  ex- 
cellent preventives  from  slipping ;  and  so  are  broad-soled  India- 
rubber  shoes,  of  the  thick  old  fashioned  sort. 

Just  within  the  front  door,  have  always  a  large  mat  to  wipe 
the  mud  or  dust  from  the  feet.  We  have  seen,  in  addition,  a 
large  foot-brush,  half  a  yard  square,  of  short,  stiff  bristles,  set 
in  a  heavy  wooden  frame,  and  placed  near  the  mat. 

If  you  live  in  a  handsome  house,  and  have  lamps  at  the 
front  door-step,  it  will  not  only  add  much  to  the  convenience 
of  those  who  go  in  and  out,  but  also  be  a  great  security  against 
thieves,  to  have  these  lamps  lighted  eve?-!/  night,  and  not  merely 
when  you  expect  company.  No  robber  will  attempt  to  force 
his  way  into  a  house,  if  the  front  is  well  lighted  all  the  time ; 
and  the  additional  expense  of  oil  will  not  be  felt  by  any  family 


332  THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

that  can  afford  to  reside  in  an  elegant  mansion,  containing 
valuable  plate  and  costly  articles  of  furniture. 

There  is  great  convenience  in  having  in  a  front  door  a  slit 
for  the  reception  of  newspapers,  letters,  &c.  This  aperture 
should  be  perpendicular,  (not  horizontal,  according  to  the  old 
custom,)  and  its  best  place  is  just  above  the  handle  of  the  lock. 
Over  it  should  be  placed  a  movable  brass  or  silver-plated  cover, 
to  be  slipped  to  one  side  when  a  paper  is  thrown  in,  and 
replaced.  This  cover,  if  handsome,  will  make  the  slit  rather 
ornamental  than  otherwise. 

No  private  dwelling  should  be  without  a  name-plate  on  the 
door.  The  want  of  one  frequently  causes  much  inconvenience 
to  strangers,  particularly  in  a  row  of  houses  that  are  all  alike, 
and  in  streets  whose  similarity  is  so  great  as  in  Phila- 
delphia. 


BELLS. — No  room  should  be  without  a  bell ;  as  there  is 
no  part  of  the  house  in  which  a  bell  may  not  be  useful,  particu- 
larly in  case  of  accidents,  or  of  persons  being  taken  suddenly 
ill  in  the  night.    It  would  be  a  good  custom,  in  large  private 
houses,  to  have  the  rooms  and  bells  numbered,  as  in  hotels. 
Much  trouble  may  be  spared  to  the  domestics  by  establishing 
different  modes  of  ringing  the  bell,  so  as  to  apprize  them  of 
what  is  wanted  before  they  come  up  stairs.    For  instance,  let 
it  be  understood  that  if  a  servant  is  to  come  for  the  purpose  of 
receiving  a  message  or  an  order,  the  bell  is  to  be  pulled  once.- 
and  if  fuel  is  wanted,  let  it  be  pulled  twice.-  if  lights,  ihree  times : 
if  water,  four  times.    In  some  families  the  manner  of  ringing 
the  bell  is  so  regulated,  as  to  denote,  not  the  thing,  but  the 
servant  that  is  wanted  :  as,  one  ring  for  the  waiting-man;  two 
for  the  boy ;  three  for  the  chambermaid,  &c. 
The  handle  of  the  front-door  bell  should  be  placed  low,  so 


DOOR -LOCKS,  ETC. 


333^ 


as  not  to  be  out  of  the  reach  of  a  child.  The  bell  itself  should 
be  large,  and  loud  enough  to  be  heard  in  any  part  of  the  house. 
In  hanging  it,  let  the  wire  go  along  as  straight  as  possible ;  for 
bends  and  turns  make  it  hard  to  pull  effectively,  and  frequently 
cause  it  to  be  broken  in  the  effort.  We  have  known  houses 
into  which  it  was  very  difficult  to  obtain  admittance,  on  account 
of  4he  inefficiency  of  the  door-bell,  or  the  almost  impossibility 
of  pulling  it  so  as  to  sound ;  the  visiters  being  not  unfrequently 
obliged  to  give  up  the  attempt  and  go  away,  in  despair  of  being 
heard  by  any  one. 

Brass  knockers  are  now  considered  old-fashioned  ;  but  they 
have  at  least  the  advantage  of  being  easily  sounded,  and  never 
getting  out  of  order. 


DOOR-LOCKS — There  is  no  economy  in  finishing  a  house 
with  door-locks  of  inferior  price  and  quality ;  as  they  are  so 
often  out  of  order,  that  the  frequent  expense  of  having  them 
repaired  soon  becomes  greater  than  would  have  been  the  addi- 
tional cost  of  having  good  ones  at  first.  Brass  locks  and  keys 
are  the  best,  and  therefore  the  most  economical ;  a  rule  that  is 
good  in  nearly  every  thing.  It  is  well  to  have  all  the  locks 
and  keys  engraved  in  corresponding  figures,  that  the  exact  key 
of  every  lock  may  be  known  at  once ;  key  No.  3  belonging,  of 
Course,  to  lock  No.  3.  If  the  number  is  marked  on  a  little  round 
piece  of  brass  attached  to  the  key,  do  not  have  the  edge  of  the 
brass  ornamented  by  jagging,  as  is  sometimes  done ;  for  the 
points  or  scollops  are  very  inconvenient,  and  hurt  the  hand 
whenever  the  key  is  applied  to  the  lock. 

When  the  hinges  of  a  door  begin  to  creak,  rub  them  well 
with  lamp-oil  or  with  soft  soap. 

The  practice  of  putting  heavy  weights  to  a  door,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  causing  it  to  shut  immediately  of  itself,  is  not  a  good 


334 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


one ;  for  (to  say  nothing  of  the  loud  and  disagreeable  noise  it 
occasions)  very  bad  accidents  have  happened  to  children,  from 
being  caught  in  a  door  while  closing  so  rapidly  that  they  could 
not  escape  from  it  in  time.  We  have  known  a  tea-waiter  with 
all  its  china  demolished,  by  the  person  that  carried  it  being 
unable  to  pass  with  sufficient  quickness  when  the  door  closed 
with  a  weight. 

7  

CHIMNEYS. — Smoky  chimneys  are  intolerable  antidotes 
to  comfort,  and  therefore  care  should  be  taken  to  construct  them 
otherwise.  Perpendicular  flues,  that  go  up  quite  straight,  are 
much  more  apt  to  smoke  than  those  that  are  zigzag,  or  have 
bends  or  elbows  in  them.  The  longer  the  chimney,  the  better 
the  draught ;  for  which  reason  fire-places  in  the  upper  story 
will  be  frequently  incommoded  with  smoke,  while  those  farther 
down  are  entirely  free  from  it.  In  two-story  structures,  the 
chimneys  should  be  very  tall,  lest  their  draught  be  overpowered 
by  adjoining  buildings  that  are  higher.  This  is  sometimes  the 
case,  even  in  a  three-story  house,  when  one  of  four  stories  is 
erected  beside  it.  The  remedy  then  is  to  raise  the  chimneys 
of  the  lowest  house,  or  to  put  pots  or  cowls  on  them.  Two 
separate  flues  in  the  same  chimney  should  have  no  communi- 
cation with  each  other  before  they  reach  the  top ;  otherwise 
one  of  them  will  be  sure  to  smoke.  It  is  best  to  narrow  the 
aperture  at  the  top  of  the  chimney,  that  there  may  be  less  space 
for  the  wind  or  for  damp  air  to  rush  down  the  flue.  Also, 
chimneys  (those  of  kitchens  particularly)  sometimes  smoke 
from  having  the  aperture  large  in  the  extreme  at  the  bottom. 
The  smoking  of  a  large  fire-place  may  be  sometimes  partially 
remedied  by  a  piece  of  sheet  iron  about  the  depth  of  eight,  ten, 
or  twelve  inches,  nailed  along  the  whole  front  of  the  chimney- 
piece. 


CHIMNEYS.  335 

FLOORS.— In  building  or  new-modelling  a  house  let  the 
floors  be  made  of  wood  that  is  very  well  seasoned,  otherwise 
they  will  shrink  from  the  walls  :  leaving  large  cracks  round 
the  surbase  to  become  places  of  egress  and  ingress  for  cock- 
roaches and  mice.  It  is  well  to  have  all  the  floors  perfectly 
level  on  each  story — it  being  inconvenient  for  children,  and  for 
servants  carrying  things,  to  have  a  step  or  two  to  go  up  or 
down  in  passing  from  room  to  room. 

When  they  are  not  to  be  carpeted,  it  is  an  excellent  plan  to 
have  the  floors  painted ;  as  it  preserves  the  wood,  fills  up  the 
cracks,  and  saves  much  hard-scrubbing.  White  or  lead  colour 
is  best.  The  strip  of  floor  at  the  two  sides  of  the  entry  and 
stair-carpet  looks  very  well  painted  white;  and  instead  of 
scrubbing,  it  need  only  be  washed  with  a  wet  cloth. 

DAMP  WALLS.— If  a  new  house  is  finished  in  the  autumn 
it  is  not  prudent  for  the  family  to  remove  into  it  till  late  in  the 
spring,  particularly  if  it  is  built  of  stone  or  brick.  The  walls 
require  a  long  time  to  dry  thoroughly,  and  the  general  humi- 
dity diffused  through  the  rooms  by  the  dampness  of  new  plas- 
tering has  been  found  in  many  instances  sadly  deleterious  to 
the  health  of  some  of  the  occupants,  either  by  producing  almost 
immediate  rheumatism,  or  laying  the  foundation  of  pulmonary 
complaints  that  ended  fatally.  It  will  be  well  to  have  the 
grates  and  stoves  set  early  in  the  autumn,  and  a  fire  made  up 
once  a  day  in  each  of  them  throughout  the  winter :  some  per- 
son going  daily  to  the  empty  house  to  attend  to  them. 

The  expense  of  these  fires  will  be  amply  compensated  by 
the  confidence  of  security  from  damp,  with  which  you  may 
take  possession  of  your  new  house,  when  the  spring  has  set  in. 


336 


HOUSE-CLEANING,  &c. 


PREPARATIONS. 

In  some  families  there  is  no  general  house-cleaning  at  stated 
periods,  but  the  rooms  are  scrubbed,  white-washed,  &c.,  one 
at  a  time,  as  may  be  most  convenient.  But  the  usual  custom 
in  America  is  to  have  the  house  completely  cleaned  from  top 
to  bottom  twice  a  year;  late  in  the  spring  and  early  in  the 
autumn.  As  the  temperature  of  the  season  varies  in  different 
parts  of  the  Union,  it  is  a  good  rule  not  to  commence  house- 
cleaning  in  the  spring  till  the  trees  are  all  in  full  leaf;  but  to 
begin  it  in  autumn  as  soon  as  the  leaves  become  tinged  with 
brown ;  having  it  entirely  over  before  the  20th  of  September ; 
at  which  time  the  equinoctial  rains  may  be  expected,  fire  will 
be  necessary,  and  the  house  and  furniture  ought  no  longer  to 
appear  in  the  guise  of  summer.  But  at  no  season  should 
house-cleaning  be  commenced  when  there  is  a  prospect  of  bad 
Weather.  And  the  whole  business  may  be  deferred  or  antici- 
pated a  week  or  more,  if  there  is  a  prospect  of  the  master  of 
the  family  having  business  to  take  him  from  home  at  the  period 
so  uncomfortable  to  all  gentlemen.  We  would  advise  him, 
however,  before  he  goes,  to  put  his  library-table  in  order  him- 
self, and  to  lock  up  (taking  the  key  away  with  him)  all  his 
papers,  &c. 

Besides  the  assistance  of  your  own  domestics,  you  will  find 
it  necessary  to  employ  at  least  three  other  persons ;  a  white- 
washer,  a  scrubber,  and  a  man  to  take  charge  of  the  carp'-ts 


HOUSE-CLEANING. 


337 


You  should  bespeak  their  services  a  week  or  two  beforehand, 
as  at  the  usual  house-cleaning  seasons  they  are  much  in  demand, 
and  you  may  be  disappointed  in  obtaining  them.  It  may  be 
well  to  make  a  stipulation  with  them  that  they  are  not  to  under- 
take the  white-washing  or  cleaning  of  another  house  at  the 
same  time  with  yours ;  a  practice  that  is  very  common  with 
them,  rather  than  lose  a  job.  The  consequence  is,  that  after 
doing  a  day's  work  (or  perhaps  only  a  morning's  work)  at  your 
house,  they  will  go  off  to  another  and  work  there  a  while ;  you, 
in  the  mean  time,  seeing  nothing  of  them  all  the  afternoon,  or 
perhaps  during  the  whole  of  the  next  day,  to  your  great  disap- 
pointment and  mconvenience. 

The  cook  is  never  required  to  assist  in  house-cleaning ;  as 
at  that  time  she  will  have  enough  to  do  in  preparing  food  for 
an  additional  number  of  persons,  and  in  clearing  things  away 
after  them.  They  should  all  have  an  early  and  substantial 
breakfast,  and  a  luncheon  between  breakfast  and  dinner ;  they 
will  work  the  better  for  it.  And  give  them  their  tea  before 
they  go  home  in  the  evening. 

The  first  thing  is  to  remove  most  of  the  furniture  from  the 
rooms ;  the  next  is  to  take  up  the  carpets.  This  will  be  done 
by  the  man  you  have  engaged  to  attend  to  them,  and  by  the 
assistants  of  his  own  that  he  will  bring  with  him.  In  Phila- 
delphia it  is  easy  to  procure  a  coloured  man  who,  for  about  five 
dollars,  will  undertake  all  the  carpets  of  a  large  house.  He 
will  bring  a  cart,  into  which  he  will  put  them  all,  after  he  has 
taken  them  from  the  floors  and  folded  them  loosely ;  and  he 
will  be  provided  with  carpet-sticks,  brooms,  and  whatever  is 
necessary,  including  men  to  help  him.  Having  taken  the 
carpets  to  some  one  of  the  vacant  lots  in  the  skirts  of  the  city, 
he  will  make  them  perfectly  clean,  by  shaking  and  beating 
them  first,  and  then  laying  them  on  the  grass  and  sweeping 
29 


338 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


them.  He  will  then  fold  them  neatly,  and  bring  them  home 
in  his  cart,  ready  to  be  put  away,  if  they  are  not  to  be  in  use 
during  the  summer.  It  is  well  to  give  him,  before  he  goes  out 
with  the  carpets,  a  quantity  of  tobacco  to  lay  among  the  folds, 
or  a  quarter  of  a  dollar  to  buy  some  for  the  purpose. 

As  soon  as  the  carpets  are  gone,  the  floors  must  all  be  swept. 
And  this  must  be  done  twice  over ;  as  the  first  sweeping  will 
only  take  off  what  is  called  the  rough  dirt.  The  looking-glasses, 
pictures,  &c.,  should  be  taken  down,  dusted  clean,  and  then 
laid  upon  their  faces  on  the  beds,  or  on  large  tables  in  the 
centre  of  the  drawing-rooms,  covering  them  with  a  sheet  or 
blanket.  The  lamps,  branches,  vases,  and  all  the  ornamental 
articles  belonging  to  the  mantel-piece,  centre-table,  and  pier- 
tables,  had  best  be  collected  all  into  one  room,  and  cleaned 
while  there  by  some  careful  person. 

WHITE- WASHING.— The  white-washing  and  scrubbing 
should  always  be  commenced  in  the  upper  story,  descending 
by  degrees ;  the  stair-case  being  done  last.  In  a  new  house, 
no  wall  should  on  any  account  be  white-washed  or  painted  till 
after  the  plastering  has  been  dry  at  least  a  year. 

To  make  white-wash,  put  lumps  of  quick-lime  into  a  bucket 
of  cold  water,  and  stir  it  about  till  it  is  all  dissolved  and  mixed. 
It  should  be  about  as  thick  as  cream.  A  pint  of  common  white 
varnish,  (which  can  be  procured  at  a  cabinet-maker's  for  a 
trifle,)  mixed  in  a  bucket  of  white-wash,  will  make  it  stick  like 
paint.  Instead  of  water  to  mix  the  lime  with,  skim  milk 
(which  must  be  perfectly  sweet)  will  make  the  white-wash 
very  white  and  smooth,  and  prevent  it  rubbing  off  easily. 
White-wash  is  put  on  with  a  very  long-handled  brush,  made 
for  the  purpose ;  and  it  should  be  spread  thinly,  smoothljr,  and 
evenly.    When  it  is  quite  dry,  it  must  be  gone  over  with  a 


HOUSE-CLEANING. 


339 


second  coat ;  and  if  the  wall  has  previously  been  very  dirty, 
er  coloured  vv^ith  yellow  ochre,  a  third  coat  of  white-wash  may 
be  necessary.  For  ceilings,  instead  of  the  common  white-wash, 
it  is  best  to  give  them  a  coat  of  what  is  called  Paris  white,  (to 
be  obtained  at  the  paint-stores,)  mixed  with  water. 

All  the,closets  should  be  cleared  out,  and  their  walls  white- 
washed, and  the  paint  of  the  shelves  and  doors  cleaned. 

CLEANING  PAINT  OR  WAINSCOTTING.— Have 
ready  two  buckets  of  water,  some  hard  soap,  a  flannel,  a  soft 
linen  cloth,  and  some  old,  soft,  linen  towels.  Paint  will  come 
off  if  cleaned  with  soft  soap,  pearl-ash,  sand,  or  a  scrubbing- 
brush.  In  one  bucket,  rub  the  soap  in  the  water  till  it  makes 
a  light  suds,  dip  in  the  flannel,  and  with  it  rub  the  paint  well. 
Then,  as  you  go  along,  rinse  off  the  soap  with  the  soft  cloth 
dipped  in  the  other  bucket  of  water,  and  dry,  as  you  proceed, 
with  the  old  towels ;  hanging  them  to  dry  in  the  window  as 
they  become  wet.  In  this  manner  clean  the  doors,  (on  both 
sides,)  the  window-frames,  shutters,  and  whatever  painted 
wood-work  or  wainscotting  may  be  about  the  room ;  using  the 
movable  steps,  when  necessary. 

If  you  find  an  ink-stain  on  the  paint,  wipe  it  with  the  wet 
corner  of  a  cloth  dipped  in  oxalic  acid,  (either  in  powder  or 
dissolved.)  This  will  remove  the  ink.  Then,  in  a  few  minutes, 
wash  off  the  oxalic  acid  with  an  old  towel  and  clean  water. 
If  the  paint  is  white,  no  trace  of  either  the  ink  or  the  acid  will 
be  left.  If  it  is  coloured  paint,  rub  the  place  with  some  harts- 
horn and  water,  and  let  it  dry.  The  same  application  will  take 
ink  out  of  a  floor,  or  remove  its  stain  from  a  mahogany 
table,  or  from  a  carpet;  the  hartshorn  and  water  restoring 
the  colour  that  has  been  faded  by  the  oxalic  acid  in  expelling 
the  ink. 


340 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


It  is  best  to  clean  the  paint  directly  after  the  white-washing, 
and  before  the  windows  are  washed. 


WINDOW  WASHING.— Having  taken  down  the  curtains 
or  blinds,  wash  the  outside  of  the  windows,  raising  the  sashes, 
and  throwing  against  them  cold  water  from  a  tin  mug;  looking 
out  first,  to  see  that  no  person  is  passing  below.  For  the  inside, 
take  a  sponge  dipped  in  luke-warm  water,  and  rub  each  pane 
of  glass  till  quite  clean ;  finishing  with  a  soft  linen  cloth.  For 
the  best  windows,  after  washing  the  glass  with  luke-warm 
water,  (as  above,)  rub  every  pane  with  a  buckskin  dipped  in 
finely-powdered  whiting,  or  prepared  chalk ;  and  then  wipe  it 
off  with  a  soft  linen,  and  finish  with  a  silk  handkerchief.  This 
will  make  good  glass  look  beautifully.  To  reach  the  top  in 
cleaning  the  inside  of  windows,  you  must  stand  on  the  movable 
steps.  If  there  are  Venetian  shutters,  brush  or  wipe  them  well 
between  all  the  slats.  If  there  are  Venetian  blinds,  see  that 
they  are  in  good  order  before  they  are  put  up  for  the  summer ; 
and,  if  necessary,  have  them  re-painted,  and  the  cords  re- 
newed. 

It  is  said  that  windows  will  look  much  clearer  if,  in  the  water 
that  is  thrown  \ip  to  wash  the  outside,  a  handful  of  saltpetre 
has  been  dissolved. 


CLEANING  CHAIRS.— Painted  chairs  should  never  be 
scrubbed,  as  it  takes  off  the  paint.  It  is  sufficient  to  wipe  them 
well  with  a  flannel  dipped  in  luke-warm  water,  and  afterwards 
with  a  dry  cloth.  If  there  is  gilding  on  the  chairs,  do  not  wet 
them  at  all,  but  wipe  them  with  a  dry  soft  cloth.  Chairs  of 
curled  maple  may  be  washed  with  a  flannel  and  luke-warm 
Roap-suds,  then  rinsed  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  cold  water,  and 
then  finished  with  a  dry  cloth. 


HOUSE -CLEANING. 


341 


Directions  for  cleaning  other  articles  of  furniture,  will  be 
found  in  preceding  parts  of  this  book. 


SCRUBBING  FLOORS.— After  the  white-washing,  paint- 
cleaning,  and  window-washing  of  each  room  has  been  com- 
pleted, let  the  floor  be  scrubbed ;  first  seeing  that  it  has  been 
well  swept.  For  this  purpose,  have  a  small  tub  or  bucket  of 
warm  water ;  an  old  saucer  to  hold  a  piece  of  brown  soap,  a 
large,  thick  tow-linen  floor-cloth  and  a  long-handled  scrubbing 
brush.  Dip  the  whole  of  the  floor-cloth  into  the  water,  and 
with  it  wet  a  portion  of  the  floor.  Next,  rub  some  soap  on  the 
bristles  of  the  brush,  and  scrub  hard  all  over  the  wet  place. 
Then  dip  your  cloth  into  the  water,  and  with  it  wash  the  suds 
of[  the  floor.  Wring  the  cloth,  wet  it  again,  and  wipe  the 
floor  with  it  a  second  time.  Lastly,  wash  the  cloth  about  in  the 
water,  wring  it  as  dry  as  possible,  and  give  the  floor  a  last  and 
hard  wiping  with  it.  Afterwards  go  on  to  the  next  part  of  the 
floor,  wet  it,  scrub  it,  wipe  it  three  times,  and  proceed  in  the 
same  manner,  a  piece  at  a  time,  till  you  have  gone  over  the 
whole ;  changing  the  dirty  water  for  clean,  whenever  you  find 
it  necessary.  For  a  large  room,  fresh  warm  water  will  be  re- 
quired four  or  five  times  in  the  course  of  the  scrubbing. 

When  the  floor  has  been  scrubbed,  leave  the  sashes  raised 
while  it  is  drying. 

For  scouring  common  floors  that  are  vefy  dirty,  have  by  you 
an  old  tin  pan  with  some  gray  sand  in  it ;  and  after  soaping  the 
brush,  rub  on  it  some  sand  also. 

In  scrubbing  the  stairs,  commence  at  the  top,  and  come 
gradually  downwards  ;  doing  one  step  at  a  time,  and  finishing 
each,  before  you  begin  the  next.  Use  for  the  stairs  a  hand- 
brush,  instead  of  a  large  one  with  a  long  handle.  You  will 
29* 


342 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


require  clean  water  at  least  once  for  every  flight  of  stairs.  For 
the  kitchen-stairs,  you  m^y  use  sand  as  well  as  soap. 

Before  the  steps  of  the  staircase  are  scrubbed,  the  painted 
part  of  the  bannisters  should  be  cleaned.  First  sweep  them 
well  with  a  bannister-brush,  getting  all  the  dust  thoroughly  out 
from  between  the  rails.  Then  wash  them  with  soap  and  flannel 
and  luke-warm  water,  rinsed  off  with  plain  water,  and  dried 
with  a  linen  cloth.  The  mahogany  part  must  be  cleaned  in 
the  same  manner  as  your  other  mahogany. 


FINISHING  THE  HOUSE- CLEANING.— A  house- 
cleaning  generally  finishes  with  the  kitchen,  cellar,  kitchen- 
staircase,  and  yard.  The  closets  in  the  kitchen  should  be  all 
cleared  out,  white-washed,  and  scrubbed.  So  also  should  the 
dresser  shelves  and  drawers,  the  tables,  &c.  The  tin-ware, 
iron-ware,  and  all  the  utensils  belonging  to  the  kitchen  and 
cellar,  should  have  a  complete  scouring ;  though,  of  course, 
they  ought  to  be  kept  clean  at  all  times.  If  any  entirely  use- 
less rubbish  has  been  allowed  to  accumulate,  let  it  be  burnt, 
rather  than  occupy  space  to  no  purpose. 

After  the  spring  house-cleaning,  (which,  east  of  New  York, 
had  best  be  deferred  till  June,  or  till  the  damp,  chilly  weather 
seems  entirely  over  for  the  season,)  let  the  fire-place  in  one  of 
the  parlours  be  so  arranged,  that  a  fire  can  be  made  up  there 
if  necessary. 

See  that  the  curtains,  carpets,  and  any  articles  of  furniture 
that  may  not  be  wanted  during  the  summer,  are  put  carefully 
away. 

Let  all  the  books  be  removed  from  the  shelves,  well  dusted, 
and  regularly  arranged. 

Previous  to  the  autumn  house-cleaning,  let  all  the  chimneys 
be  swept;  at  least,  all  those  in  which  wood  is  burned.    It  will 


HOUSE'C  LEANING. 


343 


not  be  necessary  to  put  up  your  winter  curtains  before 
November.  ■«.  . 

At  each  house-cleaning,  let  all  the  bedsteads  be  taken  apart, 
examined,  and  the  joints  washed  with  cold  soap  suds. 

If  your  house  requires  painting,  papering,  or  other  repairs, 
have  them  done  just  before  the  cleaning  time.  Previous  to 
replacing  the  furniture  in  your  rooms,  let  every  thing  be  mended 
that  requires  it. 

TO  REMOVE  THE  SMELL  OF  PAINT.— Take  three 
or  four  broad  tubs,  (such,  for  instance,  as  hold  about  eight 
gallons,)  fill  them  with  cold  water,  and  put  into  each  an  ounce 
of  vitriolic  acid,  which  you  can  obtain  from  a  druggist.  Place 
these  tubs  near  the  wainscot,  in  a  newly  painted  room.  This 
water  will  absorb  and  retain  the  effluvia  of  the  paint.  Next 
day,  fill  the  tubs  with  fresh  water,  and  add  to  each,  another 
ounce  of  vitriolic  acid.  Repeat  this  a  third  day,  and  on  the 
fourth,  the  smell  of  the  paint  will  not  be  perceptible. 

Raw  onions,  sliced,  and  set  on  plates  about  a  newly  painted 
room,  are  said  to  take  away  the  smell  of  paint ;  or  rather,  we 
suppose,  to  change  it  for  their  own;  which,  certainly,  has  the 
advantage  of  not  being  unwholsome,  though  to  most  persons 
far  from  agreeable.  The  sliced  onions  should  be  every  day  re- 
placed with  fresh  ones,  till  after  the  paint  has  entirely  dried, 
and  its  smell  is  quite  gone.  The  onions  that  have  been  stand- 
ing in  the  atmosphere  of  the  paint,  should  be  thrown  into  the 
fire,  and  destroyed  at  once ;  as  if  eaten,  they  would  be  poisonous. 


TO  TAKE  CARE  OF  FURNITURE  WHEN  THE 
HOUSE  IS  REPAIRING.— It  is  not  always  necessary,  on 
these  occasions,  to  remove  or  pack  away  the  furniture,  parti- 
cularly  if  the  rooms  are  large.    Having  taken  up  the  carpets, 


344 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


and  had  the  floors  swept,  place  the  tables,  and  sofas,  and  largest 
pieces  of  furniture  in  the  centre  of  the  room,  building  or  arrang- 
ing upon  them  and  round  them,  all  the  other  articles,  so  as  to 
occupy  as  little  space  as  possible,  and  be  perfectly  safe  from 
injury.  Cover  the  entire  stack  with  old  quilts  sewed  together, 
or  with  your  worst  carpets,  put  round  and  over  the  whole,  so  as 
to  conceal  every  article ;  and  then  secure  all,  by  sewing  to- 
gether, as  may  be  most  convenient,  the  edges  of  the  carpeting. 

PREPARING  ROOMS  FOR  SUMMER.—In  some  fami- 
lies, the  carpets  are  replaced  on  the  floors,  after  the  spring 
house-cleaning,  and  kept  down  all  summer ;  and  no  change  is 
made  in  the  furniture,  except  to  put  away  the  curtains.  In 
other  houses,  matting  is  substituted  for  carpeting :  the  sofas, 
ottomans,  and  chair  cushions  are  covered  with  chintz  cases ; 
and  all  the  gilded  articles  are  screened  from  the  flies,  by 
envelopes  of  muslin,  gauze,  or  tissue  paper.  Gauze,  we  con- 
sider the  worst  sort  of  covering,  as  it  is  very  apt  to  split,  its 
texture  is  so  open  that  it  admits, the  dust,  and  it  only  lasts  one 
season.  Low-priced  muslin  dyed  yellow  with  turmeric  and 
milk,  is  much  better,  and  may  be  used  for  the  same  purpose  for 
two  or  three  summers.  Tissue  paper  is  still  more  impervious 
to  dust,  and  makes  a  nice  and  very  cheap  covering.  We  have 
seen  green  tissue  paper  cut  out  into  large  jagged  leaves,  laid 
closely  over  each  other,  so  as  to  cover  completely  the  gilt 
frames  of  mirrors  and  pictures,  and  looking  like  a  thick  mass 
of  foliage  all  round.  The  covering  on  frames  must  be  secured 
closely  with  small  pins :  those  over  lamps,  chandeliers,  &c., 
should  be  tied  on  with  cheap  ribbon  of  the  same  colour.  Of 
course,  the  things  must  all  be  well  dusted  before  the  covers 
are  put  on. 

Where  the  flies  are  not  particularly  numerous,  it  is  best  to 


PREPARING    FOR  SUMMER. 


345 


leave  the  ornamental  furniture  without  covering  during  the 
summer;  as,  with  all  the  care  you  can  take,  dust  will  get  under 
the  covers,  damp  will  penetrate,  and  pins  will  scratch  the  gild- 
ing ;  so  that,  on  the  whole,  what  is  gained  by  excluding  the 
flies  is  lost  by  the  general  dinginess  which  they  will  contract 
from  dust  and  dampness  lodging  all  summer  beneath  the 
covers. 

If  the  rooms  are  occupied  as  usual  during  the  summer,  it  is 
well  to  have  handsome  chintz  covers  for  the  damask  or  cloth 
furniture.  But  if  the  family  remove  into  the  country,  and  the 
best  apartments  in  the  town-house  are  little  used  during  their 
absence,  the  covers  may  be  of  stout  brown  linen.  Before  they 
are  fastened  on,  if  the  sofas,  cushions,  &c.,  are  of  cloth,  or  of 
worsted  damask,  let  some  crumbled  camphor  be  introduced 
between;  otherwise  the  moths  may  attack  them  under  the 
covers.  They  should  also  be  occasionally  examined  during 
the  summer,  and  replenished  with  fresh  camphor. 

To  conceal  the  empty  grate,  it  is  frequently  covered  with  a 
summer-blower  of  handsomely  ornamented  iron. 

There  are  various  pretty  ways  of  decorating  and  screening 
the  grate  with  tissue-paper  of  different  colours,  ingeniously  cut, 
'  and  made  to  fall  lite  curtains  over  the  whole  front.  The  paper 
is  fastefaed  to  a  round  stick,  (for  instance,  a  piece  of  a  brush- 
handle,  cut  exactly  to  fit,)  and  laid  along  the  slit  or  aperture  at 
the  back  of  the  chimney.  The  paper  for  these  curtains  may 
be  of  two  colours,  (blue  and  yellow,  or  pink  and  green,)  and 
the  long  sheets  must  be  folded  and  cut  four  double,  and  then 
opened  out.  Sometimes  a  quantity  of  double  cut-paper  fringe 
(generally  green)  is  made,  and  wreathed  closely  round  the  bars  of 
the  grate,  so  as  to  leave  none  of  their  iron  visible ;  the  interior  of 
the  grate  being  filled  with  long  narrow  strips  or  shavings  of 
paper  of  another  colour.    These  cut  papers,  if  carefully  taken 


346 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


down  and  put  away  when  the  season  is  over,  will  last  two 
summers. 

Where  wood  is  burnt,  many  persons  in  summer  fill  tip  the 
fire-place  with  a  close  chimney-board.  This  makes  the  room 
too  warm,  as  is  also  the  case  with  a  summer-blower.  In  a 
chamber,  particularly,  the  fire-place  should  on  no  account  be 
stopped  up  in  summer.  Among  the  least  objectionable  chim- 
ney-boards are  those  of  strong,  black,  gauze  canvas,  pasted  at 
the  edge  on  an  open  wooden  frame,  and  ornamented  with  a 
centre-piece  and  narrow  border  of  coloured  worsted-work,  or 
with  a  large  vase  of  flowers,  cut  out  from  wall-paper,  and  pasted 
on  the  gauze.  This  gauze  (which  is  made  for  similar  purposes) 
is  of  very  open  texture,  and  admits  a  little  air  from  the  chimney. 
Still,  for  an  open  fire-place  in  summer,  there  is  nothing  better 
than  a  large  handsome  jar  to  stand  on  the  hearth,  well  filled 
with  fresh  flowers,  relieved  against  a  background  of  long  and 
spreading  cedar  or  pine  twigs. 

We  have  seen  evening  chimney-boards  which  were  very 
beautiful  transparent  paintings,  stretched  on  a  frame  made 
exactly  to  fit  the  fire-place,  and  illuminated  by  a  lamp  or  lamps 
placed  behind  them  on  the  hearth ;  the  light,  if  necessary,  being 
elevated  to  the  proper  height  by  setting  it  on  a  little  bench. 
A  fine  night-view  of  a  great  eruption  of  Vesuvius,  and  another 
of  Alpine  scenery  by  moonlight,  made  very  elegant  transparen- 
cies for  two  chimney-boards. 

There  are  chimney-boards  of  radiated  silk,  set  in  a  mahogany 
or  rose-wood  frame,  with  a  gilt  ornament  in  the  centre. 

For  the  admission  of  air  into  the  room,  there  is  no  chimney- 
board  superior  to  those  in  the  form  of  Venetian  shutters,  open- 
ing in  the  middle. 


PACKING,    ETC.  34'7 

TO  PACK  GLASS  AND  CHINA.— Have  ready  a  stout 
wooden  box,  planed  very  smooth  inside ;  and  procure  a  quantity 
of  clean  straw  or  hay,  which  had  best  be  wetted  with  a  little 
water,  so  as  to  make  it  somewhat  damp  :  this  will  prevent  it 
from  slipping  about.  Put  a  layer  of  the  straw  or  hay  on  the 
bottom  of  the  box,  and  then  place  on  it  some  of  the  largest  and 
heaviest  articles  of  the  glass  or  china ;  filling  in  between  them 
with  a  sufiiciency  of  straw.  Then  put  another  layer  of  straw, 
and  some  more  of  the  articles  to  be  packed ;  and  proceed  in 
this  manner  till  the  box  is  full ;  placing  the  lightest  and  smallest 
things  uppermost.  Finish  with  a  layer  of  straw  at  the  top,  and 
then  nail  on  the  lid  of  the  box ;  and  in  marking  the  address 
add  the  words, "  This  side  up."  If  you  have  no  regular  mark- 
ing pot  and  brush,  you  may  put  on  the  letters  with  a  large 
camel's  hair  pencil,  dipped  in  good  ink.  The  safety  of  valua- 
ble articles  of  glass  and  china  will  be  much  secured  by  wrap- 
ping them,  each  separately,  in  soft  paper,  before  you  pack  them 
with  the  straw. 

Still,  it  is  generally  best  to  employ  an  experienced  packer 
J    for  this  purpose ;  as  the  expense  of  doing  so  will  be  but  trifling 
in  comparison  with  the  risk  of  having  the  things  broken.  Also, 
a  person  accustomed  to  packing  can  put  more  articles  in  the 
same  space  than  one  who  has  had  but  little  practice. 

TO  FOLD  A  DRESS  FOR  PACKING.— Spread  the 
dress,  right  side  out,  on  a  bed  ;  and,  taking  it  by  the  hem,  make 
the  bottom  exactly  even  all  round.  Next,  double  the  skirt 
lengthways  in  half,  and  then  fold  it  lengthways  in  four,  and 
turn  the  fourth  side  over  towards  the  back.  After  this,  turn 
up  crossways  about  one-third  of  the  folded  lower  part  of  the 
skirt ;  then  give  the  remainder  of  the  skirt  a  fold  backwards, 
terminating  at  the  gathers  at  the  waist.    Next,  turn  the  body 


348 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


backwards,  with  the  front  uppermost,  and  the  back  resting  on 
the  folded  skirt  beneath.  Lastly,  spread  out  the  sleeves ;  give 
each  of  them  a  fold  forward  at  the  shoulders,  and  a  fold  back- 
ward at  the  elbows,  and  lay  them  across  each  other  evenly  on 
the  fore-body. 

Fold  the  pelerine  right-side  out.  First,  double  it  in  half, 
beginning  down  the  middle  of  the  back.  Next,  give  the  dou- 
Dled  pelerine  a  fold  backwards,  then  a  fold  forwards,  and  then 
another  fold  so  as  to  leave  the  corners  uppermost. 

A  belt-ribbon,  for  packing,  should  be  rolled  on  a  block,  and 
fastened  with  two  little  pins. 

A  lady's  travelling  dress  should  be  made  to  fasten  at  the 
side  or  in  front,  pelisse-fashion;  that,  during  her  journey,  she 
may  be  able  to  dress  herself  without  assistance. 

It  may  be  well  to  have  a  camphor-bag  sewed  to  each  of  her 
night-gowns,  that  she  maybe  less  liable  to  attacks  from  insects 
when  sleeping  in  such  beds  as  are  frequently  met  with  in 
travelling. 


TO  FOLD  A  COAT  FOR  PACKING.-Lay  the  coat  at 
its  full  length  upon  a  table,  with  the  collar  towards  the  left- 
hand  ;  pull  out  the  collar  so  as  to  make  it  lie  quite  straight ; 
turn  up  the  coat  towards  the  collar,  letting  the  crease  be  just 
at  the  elbow;  let  the  lappel  or  breast  on  one  side  be  turned 
smoothly  back  on  the  arm  and  sleeves.  Turn  the  skirt  over 
the  lappel,  so  that  the  end  of  the  skirt  will  reach  to  the  collar, 
and  the  crease  or  folding  will  be  just  where  the  skirts  part  at 
the  termination  of  the  waist.  When  you  have  done  on  one 
side,  do  the  same  on  the  other.  Turn  the  collar  towards  the 
right-hand,  and  fold  one  skirt  over  the  other,  observing  to  let 
the  fold  be  in  the  middle  of  the  collar. 

You  should  have  a  yard  and  a  half  of  brown  holland,  hemmed, 


PACKING,  ETC. 


349 


marked,  and  kept  for  the  purpose  of  wrapping  a  coat,  waistcoat, 
and  pantaloons  in,  when  packed  for  travelling. 

Boots,  when  wrapped  in  paper  for  packing  up,  frequently- 
burst  through  it  and  soil  the  clean  linen.  It  is  best  to  have  for 
them  bags  of  ticking  or  brown  linen,  made  to  fit  them  when 
they  are  foiled  up  from  the  top  about  halfway  doAvn  the  leg. 

If  you  do  not  take  a  dressing-case,  a  bag  to  hold  a  comb  and 
brush  is  also  very  useful,  either  for  a  lady  or  gentleman. 

TO  FOLD  A  SHIRT— Having  spread  the  shirt  on  a  table 
or  on  a  bed,  fold  over  the  two  sides  lengthways,  so  as  to  lie 
one  over  the  other  upon  the  bosom.  Turn  the  sleeves  back 
halfway  from  the  shoulders,  (doubling  over  the  sleeve-gussets 
in  half,)  so  as  to  lie  straight  down  on  the  folded  body.  Then 
take  the  whole  and  give  it  a  cross-fold  upward,  so  that  the 
lower  half  of  the  shirt  that  is  turned  over,  covers  the  upper  part 
of  the  sleeves  and  the  bosom. 

False  collars  are  folded  in  half  only.  False  bosom  pieces, 
first  in  half  from  the  back,  and  then  another  fold  is  given,  so 
as  to  leave  the  full  part  upwards. 

We  advise  all  gentlemen  that  wear  false  collars  to  wear  false 
wristbands  also. 


TO  PACK  A  LARGE  TRUNK.— Have  all  the  things 
laid  out  ready,  the  light  things  divided  from  the  heavy  ones ; 
and  keep  at  hand  a  quire  of  soft  wrapping  paper.  Spread  a 
clean  thick  towel  over  the  bottom  of  the  trunk,  and  place  on  it 
the  hard  flat  things,  such  as  portfolios,  music-books,  a  writing- 
desk,  boxes,  books  for  reading,  &c. ;  taking  care  to  fit  them 
well  together,  so  as  to  be  even  at  the  top ;  and  filling  up  the 
crevices  with  small  articles  that  will  not  be  injured  by  com- 
pressment,  each  of  them,  however,  wrapped  in  paper,  to  prevent 
30 


350 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


their  scraping  or  defacing  the  other  things.  Neyer  use  news- 
paper for  packing,  as  the  printing  ink  will  not  fail  to  rub  off 
and  boil  whatever  it  touches.  You  may  stick  in  a  pair  of  shoes 
here  and  there,  each  pair  laid  together  as  flat  as  possible,  and 
tied  round  with  their  own  strings.  Some  persons  have  shoe- 
bags  made  of  flannel  or  cloth,  and  stitched  into  compartments, 
each  division  containing  a  pair  of  shoes.  Over  the  layer  of 
hard  flat  things  in  the  bottom  of  the  trunk,  spread  a  towel ; 
and  on  this  lay  your  flannels,  linen,  &c.,  filling  up  the  interstices 
with  stockings  and  gloves.  Then  cover  them  with  another  towel, 
and  put  in  your  dresses,  the  muslin  ones  uppermost ;  filling  in  the 
corners  with  pocket  handkerchiefs.  Onthetopof  your  dresses  lay 
your  pelerines,  collars,  and  caps,  (if  you  have  no  other  way  of 
carrying  them,)  &c.,  finishing  with  a  thin  towel  over  the  whole. 

No  trunk  should  be  packed  so  full  as  to  strain  the  hinges.  If 
your  trunk  has  a  false  top,  you  can  fill  that  with  any  articles 
that  may  be  rolled  up  tightly.  Shoes  should  on  no  account  be 
packed  without  covers,  as  the  colour  (particularly,  if  black) 
will  rub  off,  and  disfigure  any  white  things  that  may  be  near 
them.  Avoid  putting  any  eatable  articles  in  a  trunk  or  box 
that  contains  things  which  cannot  be  washed,  as  they  may  be 
much  inj  ured  by  grease  or  stains.  On  no  consideration,  carry  ink, 
even  though  locked  up  in  a  writing  desk.  You  can  always  at 
the  place  to  which  you  are  going,  buy  yourself  six  cents  worth 
of  ink  in  a  small  square  bottle,  which  will  also  serve  for  an 
inkstand.  It  is  well,  however,  to  take  with  you  a  few  sheets 
of  good  writing  paper  folded  in  the  form  of  letters,  each  with 
a  wafer  stuck  on  one  edge,  to  be  ready,  in  case  you  have  occa- 
sion to  write  before  you  reach  your  journey's  end,  or  immedi- 
ately after.  It  is  well  to  have  red  tapes  nailed  across  the  inside 
of  the  lid  of  your  trunk,  for  the  purpose  of  slipping  letters  and 
papers  between  them. 


/ 


PACKING,    ETC.  351 

There  are  travelling  trunks  with  a  sort  of  movable  tray  fitt- 
ing in  near  the  top.  This  tray  can  be  lifted  in  and  out,  and  is 
for  the  purpose  of  containing  pelerines,  collars,  scarfs,  ribbons, 
laces,  &c.  Some  very  large  trunks  have  a  partition  at  one  end, 
to  hold  a  bonnet  or  other  millinery. 

It  is  best,  however,  to  have  a  proper  bonnet-box,  either  of 
painted  wood  or  of  leather.  To  keep  the  bonnet  steady,  sew 
to  it  in  convenient  places  under  the  trimming,  pieces  of  tape, 
the  other  ends  of  which  should  be  secured  with  tack-nails  to 
the  floor  and  sides  of  the  box.  In  the  corners,  you  may  lay  a 
few  caps,  &c.,  as  lightly  as  possible. 

Leather  trunks  generally  have  brass  plates  on  which  is 
engraved  the  name  of  the  owner.  It  is  now  very  customary 
to  have  the  name  painted  on  both  ends  of  the  trunk,  and  also 
on  the  bonnet  boxes.  Besides  which,  if  you  are  travelling 
with  several  articles  of  baggage,  it  is  well  to  have  them  all 
designated  by  a  piece  of  red  tape  or  something  of  the  sort  tied 
round  the  handles  of  each.  A  lady,  before  setting  out  on  a 
journey,  should  be  provided  with  a  card  or  paper,  on  which 
she  has  written  a  list  and  description  of  her  trunk,  box,  carpet- 
bag, &c.  Previous  to  the  hour  for  starting,  she  should  give 
this  list  to  the  gentleman  under  whose  escort  she  is  to  travel, 
and  it  will  save  him  much  trouble  in  finding  out  and  taking 
care  of  her  baggage. 

The  best  paper  for  wrapping  light  articles  that  are  to  be 
packed  in  trunks,  is  the  thin,  soft  sheets  of  light  blue,  buflt, 
gray,  and  other  colours,  that  are  retailed  at  six  cents  per  quire. 
It  is  well  to  keep  a  supply  of  it  always  in  the  house. 

For  heavier  articles,  (books,  &c.,)  the  nankeen  paper  will  be 
found  preferable  to  any  other,  as  it  is  both  smooth  and  strong. 

In  putting  up  a  paper  parcel  to  go  any  distance  over  twenty 
miles,  it  is  better  to  secure  it  only  with  sealing-wax,  (putting 


352 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


always  a  wafer  under  the  seal,)  than  to  tie  it  round  with  twine, 
as  in  the  course  of  transportation,  the  twine  is  very  apt  to  rub 
and  cut  through  the  paper. 

When  putting  up  a  newspaper  or  any  other  printed  sheet  to 
go  by  mail,  always  leave  the  cover  open  at  one  end. 

CARPET  BAGS.— The  best  carpet-bags  are  those  that  are 
made  with  large  gores  at  the  sides,  as  they  hold  much  more 
than  when  of  two  straight  pieces  only.  It  is  well  to  have  the 
owner's  name  engraved  on  the  lock.  Articles  of  dress  that 
cannot  be  compressed  into  a  small  compass,  should  not  be  put 
into  a  lady's  carpet  bag,  which  should  hold  the  flannel,  linen, 
stockings,  night-clothes,  shawl,  shoes,  &c.,  that  she  may  be 
likely  to  want  during  her  journey;  those  that  she  will  require 
the  first  night  to  be  placed  at  the  top,  where  also  she 
should  have  a  bag  containing  her  comb,  hair-brush,  &c.  For 
want  of  a  bag,  these  things  may  be  pinned  up  tightly  in  a  towel ; 
and  she  may  do  the  same  with  her  shoes  if  she  has  no  shoe-bag. 


A  TRAVELLING  RETICULE.— A  reticule  for  travelling, 
may  be  so  made,  as  to  contain  many  useful  articles.  Get  (for 
instance)  three  quarters  of  a  yard  of  the  thickest  and  best  dark 
coloured  India  silk,  such  as  is  called  senshaw.  Divide  it  into 
two  pieces,  about  a  quarter  and  a  half  quarter  in  each,  but  the 
outer  piece  a  little  deeper  .  than  the  inner.  Then  lay  them  to- 
gether so  as  to  be  double,  and  divide  them  into  four  compart- 
ments, by  making  three  downward  rows  of  stitching  or  running : 
when  you  have  sewed  up  the  side  edges  of  the  bag,  you  will 
have  four  divisions.  Leave  sufficient  at  the  top  of  the  inner 
lining  for  a  hem ;  and  the  outside  must  rise  a  little  beyond  the 
inside  and  be  hemmed  down  so  as  to  form  a  case,  to  be  drawn 
with  ribbons,  or  broad  silk  braid.    Gather  the  bottom  of  the 


I 


^PACKING,  ETC. 


353 


bag,  and  draw  it  up  as  close  as  possible,  so  as  to  finish  it  with 
a  tassel,  or  a  bow  of  ribbon  at  the  gathering  place.  This  bag 
will  be  found  very  useful  in  travelling;  as  in  the  diflferent 
divisions,  you  may  carry  a  comb,  hair-brush,  tooth-brush, 
smelling-bottle,  a  cake  of  soap,  purse,  needle-book,  keys,  &c., 
so  arranged,  as  not  to  interfere  with  each  other  inconveniently; 
leaving  the  space  in  the  middle  of  the  bag  for  your  handker- 
chief, which  you  can  then  take  out  without  any  danger  of  its 
bringing  other  things  along  with  it.    These  large  reticules  will 

be  found  less  troublesome  to  carry,  and  better  in  every  respect, 
« 

than  a  travelling  hand-basket. 

A  BONNET- COVER.— When  travelling  in  dry  weather 
on  a  road  that  is  likely  to  be  dusty,  you  may  effectually  pro- 
tect your  bonnet  from  injury,  by  taking  with  you  a  cover  for 
it.  To  make  this  cover,  get  a  yard  of  white  glazed  cambric 
muslin,  and  cut  it  into  the  form  of  a  large  straight  hood; 
gathering  it  close  at  the  back  of  the  head  upon  a  small  circular 
piece  about  the  size  of  a  half-dollar.  Slope  it  away  at  the 
sides  of  the  neck,  and  put  a  case  with  a  drawing-string  of  fine 
tape  along  the  edge  of  the  front :  the  string  to  tie  at  the  side. 

If  you  commence  your  journey  by  water,  you  can  roll  up  this 
bonnet-cover,  and  keep  it  in  your  reticule  while  in  the  steam- 
boat ;  putting  it  over  your  bonnet,  and  drawing  it  round  your 
face,  just  before  you  get  into  the  vehicle  in  which  you  are  to 
ride.  You  will  find  when  you  take  it  off,  that  it  has  effectually 
screened  your  bonnet  and  its  ribbons  from  the  dust  and  sun. 
It  must,  of  course,  be  made  very  large  and  loose,  that  it  may 
not  flatten  or  discompose  the  trimming. 

We  have  seen  bonnet-covers  of  green  silk ;  but,  if  it  chances 
to  get  wet,  the  green  dye  will  run  down  and  stain  the  bonnet. 
The  same  thing  may  happen,  if  the  cover  is  of  coloured  muslin. 
30* 


354 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


White  is  undoubtedly  the  best  for  this  purpose;  and  when 
soiled,  it  can  be  easily  washed. 

After  being  out  in  the  damp,  do  not  immediately  put  away 
your  bonnet ;  but  wipe  the  front  and  crown  with  a  clean  hand- 
kerchief, and  put  some  wadding  or  tissue  paper  into  the  bows, 
to  keep  them  from  losing  their  shape :  taking  it  out,  however, 
as  soon  as  the  ribbon  is  perfectly  dry.  Also,  never  put  away 
a  shawl  or  cloak  while  it  is  in  the  least  damp.  Do  not  always 
fold  a  shawl  in  the  same  creases,  lest  it  wear  out  along  the 
edges  of  the  folds.  When  you  take  oflF  a  veil,  stretch  it  evenly 
on  the  bed,  and  let  it  remain  there  an  hour  or  two,  in  case  there 
should  be  any  dampness  about  it. 

Whenever  the  atmosphere  is  cloudy  or  humid,  it  is  well  to 
take  the  feathers  out  of  your  bonnet  before  you  go  out,  lest  they 
lose  their  curl,  or  their  whilfeness. 


PACKING  HOUSEHOLD  ARTICLES.— In  packing  for 
the  removal  of  a  family  to  a  distant  place,  let  all  the  boxes  and 
trunks  be  numbered  in  a  book  provided  for  the  purpose;  let 
some  one  who  overlooks  the  whole  of  the  packing,  set  down 
every  article,  denoting  the  exact  box  or  trunk  in  which  it  is 
placed,  and  the  order  in  which  the  things  are  put  in,  beginning 
first  with  those  at  the  bottom.  By  this  means,  after  arriving 
at  the  place  of  destination,  you  will  know,  by  consulting  your 
book,  where  to  find  whatever  you  want;  and  which  of  the 
boxes  it  will  be  best  to  open  first.  Also,  in  a  long  sea-voyage, 
if  there  is  occasion  to  have  a  trunk  brought  from  the  hold  to 
get  out  of  it  any  particular  article,  your  book  will  tell  exactly 
in  which  of  your  trunks  that  article  is.  For  want  of  such  an 
inventory,  we  have  seen,  in  crossing  the  Atlantic,  three  or  four 
trunks  brought  up  belonging  to  one  family,  opened,  and 
searched,  beforie  the  right  one  could  be  found. 


355 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES. 


KEEPING  A  COW.— In  buying  a  cow,  you  will  find  it 
cheapest  in  the  end,  to  get  a  very  excellent  one,  even  at  a  high 
price.  But  a  good  American  cow  (having  the  advantage  of 
being  all  her  life  accustomed  to  our  climate)  will,  with  proper 
care,  be  found  quite  as  profitable  to  a  family  that  keeps  but  one, 
as  an  imported  cow  purchased  at  double  or  treble  the  cost.  A 
good  native  cow,  if  well  fed  and  well  lodged,  will  in  the  best 
season,  give  from  ten  to  twelve  quarts  of  milk  a  day,  and  many 
give  more  than  twelve.  If,  with  all  the  care  you  can  take  of 
her,  she  gives  less  than  ten  quarts,  she  is  not  a  good  cow,  and 
it  will  be  best  to  sell  her  and  try  another. 

Cows  sell  lowest  in  the  autumn  and  highest  in  the  spring. 
Always  buy  a  cow  that  has  a  calf  with  her,  as  the  calf  will 
reconcile  her  to  her  new  residence.  Keep  up  the  calf  in  a  place 
by  itself,  letting  it  out  occasionally  in  fine  weather,  to  play 
about  a  while  in  a  safe  enclosure.  Let  the  cow  be  turned  in  to 
the  calf  three  times  a  day ;  early  in  the  morning,  at  noon,  and 
towards  evening,  just  before  milking  time.  If  the  days  are 
very  short,  instead  of  putting  the  cow  with  the  calf  in  day-time, 
leave  her  with  it  all  night.  The  calf  will  not  be  fit  for  killing 
in  less  than  five  weeks  ;  and  during  that  time,  to  make  it  fat 
and  healthy,  it  should  be  allowed  to  get  a  great  plenty  of  the 
cow's  milk.  Give  it  occasionally  a  little  salt.  Forbid  the 
children  of  the  family  to  approach  the  calf  when  in  presence 
of  its  mother ;  as  the  fear  that  they  may  hurt  it,  will  render 


356 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


her  very  ferocious.  When  it  is  to  be  taken  finally  away,  let  it 
be  removed  when  the  cow  is  out  of  sight  and  hearing ;  other- 
wise she  will  be  too  much  distressed.  While  grieving  for  the 
loss  of  her  calf,  she  will  give  less  milk  than  usual. 

A  cow's  stable  should  be  tight  and  weather-proof,  with  two 
doors,  and  one  or  more  windows.  The  floor  should  have  a  very 
little  slope  down  towards  the  front  door.  The  stable  should 
be  furnished  with  a  manger  and  a  drinking  trough,  and  have  a 
loft  above  to  contain  the  hay.  A  large  jar  of  salt  should  be 
kept  always  in  the  stable-loft;  and  fix  a  salt-box  in  a  place 
convenient  to  the  manger,  and  within  the  cow's  reach.  Into 
this  box  put  a  handful  every  day ;  as  cows  are  extremely  fond 
of  salt,  and  without  it  they  will  not  thrive.  Some  persons, 
instead  of  this,  give  the  cow  half  a  handful  of  salt  every  time 
she  is  milked.  This  is  a  good  plan,  as  it  pleases  her,  and 
causes  her  to  let  down  her  milk ;  and  is  an  additional  induce- 
ment for  her  to  come  regularly  home  in  the  evening. 

The  stable  door  should  be  left  open  all  day,  (except  in  severe 
or  stormy  weather,)  that  the  cow  may  go  in  and  out  as  she 
pleases ;  and  care  should  be  taken  always  to  keep  fresh  water 
in  the  stable.  At  night,  soon  after  milking,  put  her  into  the 
stable,  and  keep  her  shut  up  till  next  morning.  At  least  two 
buckets-full  of  fresh  water  should  be  left  in  her  drinking-trough 
every  night.  In  stormy  and  severe  weather,  keep  her  all  day 
in  the  stable,  and  allow  her  additional  food. 

In  summer,  give  her  at  milking-time  a  large  basket-full  of 
fresh-cut  grass,  emptying  it  down  before  her.  This  will  be  the 
best  food  she  can  have ;  but  for  a  change,  her  morning  repast 
may  be  of  the  refuse  of  the  garden,  collected  for  the  purpose ; 
such  as  beet-tops,  carrot-tops,  corn-husks,  and  a  few  of  the 
outside  leaves  of  cabbages ;  but  if  cabbages  are  given  in  any 
quantity,  they  will  spoil  the  taste  of  the  milk.    So  also  will 


KEEPING   A  COW. 


357 


every  sort  of  turnips.  Cows  are  extremely  fond  of  pumpkins, 
and  they  are  very  good  for  them :  so  are  apples,  potatoes,  beets, 
carrots,  and  parsneps,  all  of  them  cut  up  small ;  otherwise  the 
cow  may  choke  in  swallowing  them.  Cows  will  eat  no  food 
that  has  any  thing  animal  about  it,  and  nothing  that  is  dirty  or 
decayed.  If  water  is  brought  to  them  in  a  greasy  pail,  they 
will  on  no  account  touch  it.  It  is  not  well  to  give  them  parings, 
&c.,  from  the  kitchen ;  and  what  is  called  slop  is  unwholesome 
for  them,  besides  making  their  milk  taste  disagreeably. 

In  summer,  after  being  milked  in  the  morning,  let  your  cow 
go  all  day  in  a  good  rich  pasture ;  but  do  not  allow  her  to  keep 
about  the  road,  as  the  little  she  can  pick  up  there  will  do 
her  no  good ;  not  to  mention  the  danger  of  accidents,  and  the 
probability  of  her  straying  away. 

If  she  is  accustomed  to  being  always  fed  at  milking-time, 
she  will  come  home  from  her  pasture-ground  every  afternoon  ^ 
of  her  own  accord,  which  is  a  saving  of  much  trouble.  Give 
her  another  basket-full  of  cut  grass,  or  some  other  wholesome 
vegetable  food,  while  she  is  getting  milked  in  the  evening. 

Two  tons  of  hay  (not  less)  are  about  sufficient  for  a  cow 
through  the  winter,  unless  it  is  a  very  long  one ;  with  half  a 
bushel  of  bran  each  day. 

In  winter,  a  cow  should  be  punctually  fed  three  times  a  day. 
Early  in  the  morning  give  her  eight  quarts  of  wheat  bran  or 
shorts,  mixed  with  sufficient  water  to  make  it  rather  liquid ; 
and,  besides  her  allowance  of  bran,  let  her  have  as  much  hay 
as  she  will  eat.  At  noon  ■give  her  hay  only,  but  enough  for 
her  to  eat  till  she  is  satisfied.  In  the  evening,  give  her  again 
eight  quarts  of  bran  mixed  with  water,  and  as  much  hay  as  she 
wants.  ■  If  she  is  a  good  cow,  you  will  be  amply  remunerated 
for  feeding  her  thus  liberally  with  wholesome  food,  by  the 
quantity  and  richness  of  the  milk  she  will  yield  in  consequence 


358 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Unless  a  cow  is  well-fed,  well-sheltered,  and  kept  fat  and 
healthy,  her  milk  will  be  poor  and  in  small  quantity,  and  she 
will  be  dry  nearly  half  the  year,  instead  of  only  about  three 
weeks.  Besides  which,  cows  that  are  kept  in  poor  condition 
are  liable  to  diseases,  and  become  infested  with  vermin.  It  is 
a  great  error  not  to  feed  the  cow  as  well  as  usual  during  the 
time  she  is  dry.  Her  food  should  then,  as  always,  be  good  and 
plentiful ;  and  you  will  be  amply  repaid  by  the  quantity  of 
milk  she  will  give  afterwards. 

The  milk-pans  should  be  broad  and  shallow.  If  they  are 
not  kept  very  clean  by  scalding  and  washing,  the  milk  will 
taste  disagreeably,  or  turn  sour  in  them.  During  the  day,  the 
empty  pans  should  be  exposed  to  the  sun  and  air ;  but  about 
an  hour  before  milking-time,  they  should  be  filled  with  cold 
water,  to  cool  and  refresh  them.  The  pails  or  buckets  require 
clean  scouring  every  day.  If  the  outside  is  painted,  (a  good 
practice,)  it  will  be  only  necessary  to  scald  and  wash  the  inside 
daily. 

The  person  that  milks  should  be  provided  with  a  small 
wooden  stool  to  sit  on ;  and  with  thick  water-proof  shoes,  as  a 
protection  against  the  damp  ground  at  early  morning  or  in  wet 
weather.  Care  must  be  taken  always  to  milk  the  cow  tho- 
roughly dry ;  otherwise  the  quantity  of  her  milk  will  decrease, 
and  she  will  at  last  cease  to  give  any.  After  she  has  been 
nearly  milked,  quit  her  for  a  little  while ;  during  which  time 
you  may  carry  in  and  strain  the  milk.  Then  go  back  to  her 
with  another  and  smaller  vessel,  and  give  her  a  final  milking, 
or  stripping,  as  it  is  called.  These  strippings  are  nearly  as 
rich  as  cream ;  and  if  you  make  butter,  they  may  be  put  into 
the  cream-crock. 

We  have  known  a  cow,  fed,  sheltered,  and  managed  exactly 
in  the  above  manner,  to  produce  milk  enough  to  make  seven 


THE    DAIRY,  ETC. 


359 


pounds  a  week  of  the  best  possible  butter,  yellow,  rich,  and 
sweet. 

If  you  have  no  milk-house,  get  a  refrigerator  or  large  ice-box, 
exclusively  for  the  milk,  cream,  and  butter ;  putting  nothing  else 
into  it.  Milk  is  liable  to  imbibe  a  bad  taste,  and  to  sour  easily, 
if  exposed  to  the  vicinity  of  other  articles  of  food ;  therefore 
(unless  shut  up  in  a  refrigerator)  it  ought  never  to  be  kept  in 
a  cellar.  We  have  known  milk  to  acquire  an  intolerable  taste 
from  being  kept  in  a  cellar  in  which  there  was  a  barrel  of  salt 
fish ;  and  the  butter  made  from  this  milk  was  uneatable. 

Cows  should  never  be  allowed  access  to  any  field  in  which 
there  is  garlic ;  as  the  strong  taste  and  smell  that  it  communi- 
cates to  their  milk  and  butter,  and  even  to  the  flesh  of  their 
calves,  can  by  no  process  be  removed. 


THE  DAIRY. — A  dairy  or  milk-house  should  be  divided 
into  two  apartments.  The  one  that  contains  the  milk  and 
cream  had  best  be  built  over  a  running  brooklet,  so  that  in 
summer  the  pans  may  sit  in  the  cold  water  upon  broad  flat 
stones,  placed  there  for  the  purpose.  The  remainder  should 
be  neatly  paved  with  brick  or  stone,  laid  with  a  slight  descent ; 
and  the  floor  ought  to  be  washed  every  day  in  summer,  and 
twice  a  week  in  winter. 

The  building  should  have  very  thick  walls,  so  as  to  exclude 
the  heat  in  the  summer  and  the  cold  in  the  winter.  The  win- 
dows (they  should  never  front  the  south,  south-east,  or  south- 
west) ought  to  be  secured  with  wire  netting,  having  also  glazed 
sashes  to  open  with  hinges.  The  apartment  that  contains  the 
milk,  cream,  and  butter,  should  be  used  for  no  other  purpose, 
and  nothing  else  should  be  kept  there.  In  the  additional  room 
let  all  the  other  articles  be  placed  that  are  necessary  for  dairy 
business,  neatly  ranged  on  shelves.    Here  also  keep  youi 


360 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


cheese,  rennet,  &c.  Let  every  utensil  be  kept  perfectly- 
clean  ;  otherwise  the  milk  will  turn  sour,  and  the  butter  will 
have  a  bad  taste.  The  best  milk-pans  are  of  brown  earthen 
ware ;  those  of  metal  being  injurious  to  the  milk.  Twice  a 
week  in  summer,  and  once  a  week  in  winter,  it  is  well  to  half 
fill  them  all  with  wood-ashes,  and  then  pour  on  boiling  water 
till  it  reaches  the  brim.  Let  them  stand  in  this  foj  several 
hours  ;  then  empty  them,  and  wash  them  clean  with  hot  water, 
rinsing  them  with  cold,  and  wiping  them  dry.  Besides  your 
pails  and  milk-pans,  you  will  want  tall  earthen  crocks  for  the 
cream  and  butter-milk;  a  skimming-dish;  a  cream-stick;  a 
strainer,  which  is  a  tin  basin  with  a  bottom  of  fine  canvas  or 
bolting-cloth ;  a  churn ;  a  short-handled  butter-scoop  or  ladle, 
and  a  butter-print.  It  is  well  also  to  have  a  table  with  a  marble 
top,  a  pair  of  scales  for  weighing  the  butter,  and  a  set  of  linen 
cloths,  in  which  to  wrap  each  pound  separately. 

In  summer  the  cream  should  not  be  kept  more  than  two  or 
three  days ;  and  in  winter  the  churning  ought  to  be  done  three 
times  in  a  fortnight ;  as,  if  the  cream  is  kept  too  long,  the  butter 
will  certainly  be  bad.  The  cream-crock  should  be  stirred 
several  times  a  day  with  the  stick.  Where  there  are  two  or 
three  cows,  it  is  best  to  have  a  barrel-chum,  which  is  turned 
by  a  handle.  If  there  is  but  one  cow,  a  common  or  dash-churn 
will  do  very  well.  We  have  heard  of  chums  of  a  new  con- 
struction, that  will  cause  the  butter  to  come  in  twenty  minutes. 
They  are  made  at  Westchester,  in  Pennsylvania. 

The  following  is  an  English  receipt  for  making  butter ;  and 
we  think  it  may  be  depended  on  as  a  good  one.  The  art  of 
butter-making  is  nowhere  "better  understood  than  in  England. 

In  summer  the  churn  should  be  filled  with  cold  spring  water, 
and  in  winter  scalded  with  hot  water,  preparatory  to  churning; 
then  pour  the  cream  in  through  a  strainer.    In  warm  weather. 


THE    DAIRY.  361 

the  churning  should  be  performed  in  a  cool  place.  In  cold 
weather,  let  the  churning  be  done  in  a  warm  place ;  indeed,  it 
is  sometimes  necessary  to  bring  the  churn  near  the  fire,  and  to 
pour  in  a  little  hot  water  to  hasten  the  butter,  which,  however, 
will  become  white  by  the  process.  The  butter  being  come, 
pour  off  the  butter-milk  into  a  clean  crock,  leaving  the  butter 
in  the  churn ;  pour  in  a  pail-full  of  cold  water ;  wash  the  butter 
about  in  it ;  pour  off  this  water,  and  put  in  a  fresh  pail-full. 
Let  the  butter  stand  in  the  second  cold  water  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Having  scalded  a  milk-pan,  and  stood  it  for  half  an 
hour  or  more  in  a  small  tub  of  cold  water,  lift  the  butter  out  of 
the  churn,  and  put  it  into  this  milk-pan.  Then  pour  over  it 
plenty  of  fresh  water,  and  wash  the  butter  well  about  in  it. 
Drain  the  water  off  as  dry  as  possible,  and  then  proceed  to 
work  the  buttermilk  out  of  the  butter.  Either  do  this  with  your 
hands,  (which  should  first  be  dipped  in  warm  water,)  or  with 
one  of  the  short-handled  flat  butter-ladles  made  for  the  purpose. 
Work  the  butter  by  squeezing  and  pressing  it  by  degrees  from 
one  side  of  the  pan  to  the  other.  Then  rinse  it  by  pouring  on 
cold  water.  Pour  that  off ;  work  the  butter  to  the  other  side 
of  the  pan ;  pour  on  more  cold  water  to  rinse  it ;  and  work  the 
butter  back  again.  Repeat  this  till  the  rinsing-water  ceases  to 
look  in  the  least  milky ;  and  when  the  water  pours  off  quite 
colourless,  you  may  be  sure  that  the  butter-milk  is  all  worked 
out.  If  there  is  any  left  in,  the  butter  will  have  streaks  of 
white  when  cut,  and  will  lose  its  sweetness,  and  very  soon 
taste  disagreeably.  Having  worked  out  the  milk,  and  weighed 
the  lump  of  butter,  the  next  thing  is  to  put  in  the  salt,  which 
should  first  be  rolled  quite  fine  with  the  rolling-pin.  The  salt 
must  be  of  the  best  quality.  You  may  allow  about  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  salt  to  each  pound  of  butter.  Lay  the  lump  of 
butter  on  the  marble  table,  if  you  have  one,  (or  else  in  a  large 
31 


362 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


shallow  dish,)  and  press  it  out  thin  and  flat.  Then  sprinkle  it 
with  a  little  salt;  fold  up  the  butter,  press  it  flat  again,  strew 
over  it  some  more  salt,  fold  it  up  and  press  it  out  again,  and 
proceed  in  this  manner  till  all  the  salt  is  in;  working  and 
pressing  the  butter  well,  that  the  salt  maybe  thoroughly  incor- 
porated with  it,  and  all  the  remaining  moisture  pressed  out ; 
pouring  oflF  whatever  liquid  may  remain  in  the  pan.  Take  off 
a  piece  of  the  butter  at  a  time,  put  it  on  a  wooden  plate,  (which 
should  be  previously  scalded  and  then  dipped  in  cold  water,) 
and  beat  and  work  it  with  the  butter-ladle  till  all  the  water  is 
beaten  out.  When  the  water  is  all  out,  divide  it  equally  into 
pounds,  or  half  pounds,  or  pats,  (smoothing  it  nicely,)  and  then 
print  it.  If  you  have  no  print,  you  may  make  it  up  into  long 
thick  rolls,  from  which,  when  you  want  the  butter  for  use,  you 
cut  off  round  slices.  Finish  by  laying  it  on  the  marble  table, 
or  placing  it  in  pans  and  setting  it  in  the  water  of  the  milk- 
house,  or  in  some  other  cool  place,  covering  it  with  linen  cloths, 
first  scalded  and  then  dipped  in  cold  water.  Do  not,  however, 
place  it  near  an  open  window,  as  too  much  air  will  injure  it. 
In  a  few  hours  it  will  become  quite  firm. 

When  you  have  done  the  butter,  wash  up  at  once,  in  hot 
water,  all  the  things  that  have  been  used  in  making  it. 

TO  PREPARE  A  RENNET.— The  rennet  or  runnet  is 
the  stomach  of  a  calf.  Its  form  is  that  of  a  bag,  and  it  has  the 
property  of  converting  milk  into  a  curd ;  being  used  for  that 
purpose  after  undergoing  the  following  preparation.  Having 
carefully  emptied  it  of  all  its  contents,  rinse  it  well  with  cold 
water ;  but  if  washed  long  or  much,  it  will  lose  its  strength, 
and  its  quality  of  turning  milk  will  be  proportionately  impaired. 

After  the  rinsing,  lay  it  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  sprinkle  it  well 
on  both  sides  with  fine  salt.  When  you  have  thoroughly  salted 


KEEPING  POULTRY. 


363 


it,  cover  the  pan,  and  let  the  rennet  lie  in  the  salt  four  or  five 
days.  Then  take  it  out,  and  slip  into  it  a  long  smooth  rod  or 
stick,  which  must  be  bent  into  the  form  of  a  loop  or  bow,  and 
the  two  ends  tied  together  with  twine.  The  rennet  must  be 
well  stretched  upon  the  stick.  Afterwards  hang  it  up  in  a  dry 
room  ;  and  v/hen  it  is  thoroughly  dried,  keep  it  in  a  drawer  or 
closet. 

A  piece  of  rennet  about  three  inches  square  (or  more,  if  it  is 
not  a  new  one)  will  be  sufficient  to  turn  a  quart  of  milk,  which 
must  first  be  made  warm.  The  piece  of  rennet  should  be  well 
washed  in  cold  water,  and  then  wiped  to  get  all  the  salt  out, 
and  then  steeped  for  some  hours  in  a  cup  with  just  enough  of 
luke-warm  water  to  cover  it.  This  water  should  then  be  stirred 
into  the  warmed  milk,  covering  it  and  setting  it  not  far  from 
the  fire.  When  the  milk  has  become  a  firm  curd,  and  the  whey 
looks  greenish,  remove  it  to  a  cold  place,  as  it  should  be  eaten 
quite  cold. 

Rennets  ready  prepared,  can  be  bought  for  a  trifle,  at  all  sea- 
sons, in  Philadelphia  market.  They  are  much  used  for  curds 
and  whey. 

TO  KEEP  FOWLS.— No  fowls  can  possibly  thrive  well, 
or  be  profitable  to  the  owners,  unless  they  are  plentifully  fed, 
and  have  a  comfortable  place  to  roost  in  at  night  and  for  a 
shelter  in  cold  or  wet  weather.  Their  room  or  hen-house  may 
be  adjoining  to  the  wood-house,  or  some  other  out-building. 
It  is  best  to  have  it  facing  the  east  or  the  south,  and  it  must  be 
perfectly  weather-tight.  It  should  have  a  door  and  windows, 
and  be  very  well  lighted  :  the  windows  may  either  be  latticed 
with  wood,  or  netted  with  iron  wire.  In  the  evening,  after  the 
fowls  have  gone  to  roost,  let  the  door  be  locked ;  seeing  that 
it  is  opened  very  early  in  the  morning,  unless  in  bad  weather. 


364 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


The  hen-house  should  be  frequently  cleaned  out,  and  occasion- 
ally white-washed  ;  for  if  kept  dirty,  the  fowls  will  be  infested 
with  vermin.  If  this  should  happen,  catch  every  fowl,  even  to 
the  smallest  chickens,  and  rub  their  skins  and  feathers  well 
with  lard  or  dripping ;  then  have  their  house  thoroughly  cleaned 
and  white-washed  at  once;  afterwards  fumigating  it  with  burn- 
ing brimstone.  Next,  throw  some  sand  or  fresh  earth  on  the 
floor. 

If  fowls  are  scantily  supplied  with  water,  or  if  they  have 
access  only  to  that  which  is  dirty  or  puddled,  they  will  contract 
a  disorder  called  the  pip,  which  is  a  thin  white  scale  that 
grows  on  the  tip  of  the  tongue,  and  prevents  their  feeding. 
Catch  them,  pull  off  the  scale  with  your  forie-finger  nail,  and 
then  rub  the  tongue  with  salt.  When  fowls  have  this  or  any 
other  disease,  they  look  drooping,  their  eyes  appear  dull,  and 
their  combs  and  gills  become  pale  and  flabby.  When  they  are 
sick,  feed  them  with  bran  that  has  been  mixed  to  a  paste  with 
boiling  water. 

In  wet  weather,  keep  the  fowls  shut  up  all  day  in  the  hen- 
house; also  when  it  is  very  cold,  taking  care  that  they  are 
properly  supplied  with  food  and  water.  They  should  have  in 
their  house  a  little  manger  or  feeding-trough,  which  ought 
never  to  be  empty.  If  they  have  plenty  of  food  always  by 
them,  they  will  eat  frequently  but  only  a  little  at  a  time,  and  it 
is  best  for  them  to  do  so.  When  their  food  is  given  to  them 
scantily  and  irregularly,  they  injure  themselves  by  devouring 
it  too  fast. 

Feed  them  chiefly  with  Indian  corn,  allowing  at  least  three 
quarts  a  day  in  winter,  and  two  quarts  in  summer,  to  a  dozen 
fowls.  The  corn  will  be  still  better  for  them,  if  previously 
soaked  in  water.  They  should  have  food  given  to  them  regu- 
larly three  times  a  day.    It  is  usual  to  feed  young  chickens  on 


KEEPING  POULTRY. 


m 


Indian  meal  mixed  soft  with  water.  Curds  are  still  better  for 
lliem.  When  newly  hatched,  they  may  have  bread  soaked 
in  milk.  By  way  of  variety,  you  may  give  your  fowls  occa- 
sionally, buck-wheat,  barley,  rice,  and  oats ;  but  nothing  will 
fatten  them  so  well,  and  keep  them  so  healthy,  as  com. 

If  always  fed  there,  they  will  stay  chiefly  in  their  house 
during  the  winter,  and  will  in  consequence  be  more  healthy, 
and  in  every  respect  more  profitable.  They  must  be  well  sup- 
plied with  plenty  of  clean  water  in  large  shallow  pans  of  tin  or 
earthen ;  and  also  with  brick-dust  and  gravel  to  assist  their 
digestion.  It  is  well  to  place  in  the  centre  of  their  large  water- 
pan,  a  small  but  heavy  one  of  earthen-ware,  turned  bottom 
upwards,  on  which  the  fowls  can  stand  to  drink  without  wet- 
ting their  feet :  which  often  in  winter  makes  them  sick,  or  causes 
their  toes  to  freeze  so  that  they  lose  them.  Recollect  always 
that  dirty  water  gives  them  diseases.  But  a  little  clean  brick- 
dust  thrown  occasionally  into  their  drinking  pans,  is  good  for 
their  digestion. 

Their  nests  should  be  movable,  that  whenever  the  hen  has 
done  sitting,  they  may  be  taken  away,  and  cleaned  out  before 
they  are  replaced.  For  the  nest,  you  may  place  on  the  floor 
fnot  far  from  the  walls,  but  not  against  them)  old  flat  baskets ; 
or  deep  boxes  set  up  on  the  side ;  the  open  or  entrance  part 
turned /roTw  the  light.  Fill  them  with  clean  dry  straw  or  hay. 
Place  near  the  boxes  lime  for  the  hens  to  form  their  egg-shells. 
Old  rubbish-lime,  or  plaster  from  old  walls,  is  very  proper  for 
this  purpose,  if  well  broken  up.  If  you  cannot  procure  this,  mix 
lime  and  water  to  a  mortar ;  let  it  dry,  then  break  it  up  and  put 
it  into  the  hen-house.  See  that  the  setting  hens  have  plenty  of 
food  and  water  every  day,  at  the  time  they  come  off  their  nestp. 
If  they  are  not  supplied  at  once,  they  will  go  back  to  their  neptS 
without  waiting,  and  suffer  much  in  consequence. 

31* 


360 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


Their  roosts  or  perches  should  be  so  contrived  as  not  to  be 
exactly  over  each  other,  and  some  should  be  placed  low  enough 
for  the  young  fowls  to  reach  without  difficulty  in  flying  up  to 
them.    Let  none  of  the  nest-boxes  be  placed  under  the  roosts. 

The  hen-house  should  frequently  be  cleaned  out,  white- 
washed, fumigated  with  sulphur,  or  by  burning  pine  or  cedar 
boughs ;  and  then  strewed  with  sand. 

Indian  meal  and  West  India  molasses,  mixed  together,  and 
combined  till  it  crumbles,  is  excellent  for  fattening  chickens, 
and  making  them  grow  rapidly.  When  fed  with  it  three  times 
a  day,  they  have  been  known  in  two  months  to  become  as  large 
as  full-grown  fowls.  The  great  Bucks  County  fowls,  (as  they 
are  called  in  Pennsylvania,)  if  fed  in  this  manner,  will  grow 
to  such  a  size,  that  when  brought  on  table,  they  are  often  mis- 
taken for  young  turkeys. 

Wormwood  and  rue,  sowed  plentifully  every  spring  about  the 
neighbourhood  of  the  hen-house,  will  tend  to  keep  away  vermin ; 
and  if  strewed  about  the  floor  in  the  vicinity  of  their  nests,  it  will 
keep  off  weasels  and  other  such  animals  that  come  to  suck  the 
eggs.  They  may  also  be  kept  ofFby  scattering  powdered  valerian. 
Eleven  fine  hens,  managed  in  the  foregoing  manner,  well- 
sheltered,  kept  clean,  and  plentifully  supplied  with  good  food 
and  water,  have  been  known  to  supply  two  thousand  eggs  in 
the  course  of  a  year,  (laying  all  winter,)  and  a  hundred  chickens 
have  been  raised  from  them,  all  fat  and  ready  for  killing  in  the 
autumn.  The  best  hens  for  laying  during  the  winter  are 
pullets  hatched  the  preceding  spring. 

Bantam  fowls  are  less  injurious  to  a  garden  than  any  others, 
as  the  feathers  about  their  feet  prevent  them  from  scratching 
up  the  seeds.  If  your  garden  fence  has  the  palings  sharp- 
pointed  at  the  top,  the  fowls  that  are  outside  will  find  it  diffi- 
cult to  get  over ;  as  after  flying  up  to  the  top,  they  will  have 


KEEPING  POULTRY. 


367 


no  place  to  rest  their  feet  on,  while  preparing  to  take  their 
flight  downward. 

When  you  do  not  intend  the  hen  to  sit,  instead  of  keeping 
one  real  egg  always  in  the  nest,  have  it  furnished  with  three 
very  large  ones,  shaped  out  of  chalk. 

When  a  hen  hatches  in  wet  weather,  the  young  chickens  as 
they  come  out  of  the  shell,  should  be  brought  into  the  kitchen 
or  some  other  warm  room,  and  kept  there  till  next  day  or  longer, 
in  a  basket  with  some  cotton  or  wadding  in  it ;  feeding  them 
with  curds  or  with  soaked  bread.  After  she  has  hatched,  con- 
tinue to  feed  the  hen  exceedingly  well,  or  she  will  not  have 
warmth  enough  for  her  chickens  when  she  collects  them  under 
her ;  besides  that,  during  the  day,  she  requires  great  strength  to 
enable  her  to  take  care  of  them,  and  make  for  them  the  unusual 
exertions  to  which  she  is  prompted  by  nature.  The  chickens 
of  a  poor  hen  die  off  very  fast. 

TURKEYS  ^Turkeys  are  more  difScult  to  raise  than  any 

other  poultry ;  as  when  young,  the  least  exposure  to  wet  is 
destructive  to  them.  A  turkey-house  should  be  contrived  and 
managed  just  like  a  chicken-house.  As  turkeys  are  in  much 
esteem  for  the  table,  and  always  bring  a  good  price  when  raised 
for  market,  they  are  well  worth  the  trouble  and  expense  of  rear- 
ing carefully.  Those  hatched  in  May  or  late  in  April,  after  the 
weather  has  become  settled,  always  thrive  the  best ;  but  till 
they  are  as  large  as  an  old  partridge,  and  have  their  backs  well 
covered  with  feathers,  they  should  be  kept  closely  in  their  house 
every  morning  till  the  dew  is  quite  off  the  ground ;  and  in 
damp  weather,  they  should  not  be  allowed  to  go'  out  at  all. 
If  hatched  in  wet  weather,  keep  them  several  days  in  the  house. 

The  best  food  for  young  turkeys,  is  milk  turned  with  rennet 
into  a  firm  curd,  made  fresh  for  them  every  day;  and  this  is 


368 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


also  excellent  for  every  sort  of  poultry,  when  very  young.  If 
fed  in  this  manner,  and  kept  warm  and  dry,  you  may  not  lose 
one  out  of  twenty ;  and  a  flock  of  fine  full-grown  turkeys  is 
valuable  when  the  season  comes  for  eating  them.  Their  food 
may  be  varied  occasionally  with  soaked  bread,  or  with  Indian 
meal  mixed  with  water ;  and  when  a  little  older,  you  may  give 
them  the  wet  Indian  meal  entirely. 

When  they  get  their  head-feathers,  they  have  become  hardy 
enough  to  prowl  about,  for  which  they  like  to  have  ample  space. 
Their  food  should  then  be  com  or  buck-wheat.  They  will  fatten 
very  fast  on  Indian  meal,  mixed  with  skim-milk.  As  a  change, 
boiled  carrots  and  boiled  Russian  turnips  are  very  good  for 
them.  Turkeys  are  great  devourers,  and,  to  become  fat,  will 
require  feeding  five  times  a  day.  They  will  thrive  best  if  their 
com  is  parboiled. 

It  is  well  to  rear  young  turkeys  under  the  hens  of  the  com- 
mon fowl;  as  they  do  not  ramble  like  the  hen-turkeys,  and 
teach  the  young  ones  to  ramble  also. 

GEESE. — Geese  can  only  be  kept  to  advantage  where  there 
are  old  fields  or  commons  for  them  to  graze  in,  as  grass  is  an 
important  article  of  their  food.  If  well  Jcept,  a  goose  will  lay  a 
hundred  eggs  in  a  year.  In  France,  v/here  great  attention  is 
paid  to  the  raising  of  geese,  they  do  not  allow  the  goose  to  sit 
herself,  but  they  put  her  eggs  under  common  fowls,  giving  four 
or  five  eggs  to  each  hen.  If  the  goose  is  permitted  to  sit,  she 
must  be  plentifully  and  regularly  fed  during  the  process. 
When  the  young  ones  are  hatched,  they  should  be  kept  in  a 
warm  dry  place  for  four  days  or  more,  (according  to  the  wea- 
ther,) and  fed  with  lettuce  leaves  boiled  in  milk,  or  with  Indian 
meal  mixed  with  milk  rather  than  water.  They  will  then 
begm  to  graze  a  little. 


KEEPING  POULTRY. 


369 


Though  geese  eat  grass,  they  will  not,  however,  fatten  upon 
it.  They  should  be  fed  with  corn  early  in  the  morning.  They  • 
will  then  walk  olf  to  their  field  by  themselves,  and  come  home 
of  their  own  accord  in  the  evening ;  when  they  ought  to  be  fed 
again,  before  they  go  to  rest.  Their  sleeping-place  must  always 
be  under  cover;  and  in  their  grazing-field  a  brook  or  some 
accessible  water  is  indispensable. 

Geese  should  not  be  killed  till  they  are  full-grown :  what 
are  called  green  geese  are  flabby  and  tasteless.  To  fatten  geese 
rapidly  for  killing,  put  them  for  a  few  weeks  into  a  pen,  which 
must  be  kept  well  littered  with  clean  straw,  and  have  belong- 
ing to  it  a  feeding  trough  for  their  corn  or  oats,  and  a  drinking 
trough  kept  well  supplied  with  clean  water.  Geese  will  not 
thrive  if  kept  dirty.  Vary  their  food  with  refuse  lettuces  and 
cabbages  from  the  garden. 

The  latter  part  of  the  summer  is  their  moulting  season ;  and 
if  not  picked,  when  their  small  feathers  become  loose  they  will 
drop  about  the  ground  and  be  wasted.  If  the  goose-picking  ia 
done  by  a  woman,  she  must  have  all  the  geese  caught  and 
penned  up  in  some  convenient  place ;  and  then,  putting  on  a 
large  coarse  apron,  she  must  take  each  goose  on  her  lap,  hold- 
ing its  legs  fast  with  one  hand,  while  she  picks  off  the  loose 
feathers  with  the  other,  and  lays  them  in  a  basket  beside  her. 

An  old  goose  should  be  allowed  to  live  as  long  as  possible ; 
for,  if  killed,  it  will  be  too  hard  and  tough  to  be  eaten. 

DUCKS.— Though  ducks,  like  pigs,  will  eat  of  garbage, 
and  of  various  disgusting  things,  yet  there  is  no  advantage  in 
their  dt/ng  so,  but  precisely  the  contrary ;  as  their  flesh  becomes 
strong  and  bad  in  proportion.  Com,  oats,  buckwheat,  wetted 
Indian  meal,  lettuces,  white  cabbages,  and  other  refuse  of  the 
garden,  are  excellent  food  for  them.   Parsley,  sowed  about  the 


370 


THK   HOUSE  BOOK. 


edges  of  the  ponds  or  streams  that  they  frequent,  greatly 
improves  their  flesh.  So  does  wild  celery,  which  imparts  a 
similar  flavour  to  that  of  the  canvas-back,  the  most  delicious 
of  ducks.  A  place  for  them  to  retire  to  at  night  should  be  par- 
titioned off"  or  erected  not  far  from  the  water ;  and  here  they 
should  be  fed  morning  and  evening.  This  will  always  bring 
them  homa  from  their  rambles. 

If  a  duck  is  well  lodged  and  fed,  she  will  lay  ten  dozen  of 
eggs  in  the  course  of  a  year;  and  duck-eggs  are  extremely  rich, 
and  excellent  for  all  purposes.  It  is  usual  to  set  duck-eggs 
under  a  common  hen  for  hatching.  The  ducklings,  when  quite 
young,  should  be  fed  on  curds  or  Indian  meal  mixed  with  milk, 
and  should  not  be  let  out  early  in  the  morning  to  eat  slugs, 
worms,  caterpillars,  &c. ;  for  those  things,  if  eaten  profusely, 
will  kill  them.  They  should,  if  possible,  be  prevented  from 
going  into  water  and  swimming  till  they  are  more  than  a  month 
old.  When  you  are  fattening  them  for  killing,  keep  them  from 
eating  any  garbage  or  animal  food  whatever. 


TO  KEEP  BEES.— In  America  the  common  bee-hives  are 
made  of  wood,  in  the  form  of  a  tall,  four-sided,  bottomless  box, 
with  a  flat  cover  or  roof  projecting  several  inches  all  round,  and 
an  open  door  or  entrance-hole  near  the  bottom.  The  hives  must 
be  made  very  tight,  and  quite  impervious  to  rain.  They  are  set 
in  a  row  on  broad  high  benches ;  and  to  prevent  rats,  mice,  &c., 
from  nmning  up,  it  is  well  to  have  the  legs  of  the  benches  cased 
in  tin.  The  hive-benches  should  not  be  placed  close  to  a  fer.ce, 
a  tree,  or  even  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  tall  shrubs  or 
flowers,  that  they  may  be  the  less  accessible  to  any  thing  that 
is  likely  to  commit  depredations  on  the  bees.  Ants  are  their 
mortal  enemies.  To  keep  these  away,  take  some  green  sticks 
or  rods,  lay  them  on  the  ground,  twist  them  into  the  form  of 


KEEPING  BEES. 


371 


rings,  so  as  to  encircle  each  leg  of  the  hive-bench,  at  a  few 
inches  from  it.  Then  cover  these  rings  thickly  with  tar.  You 
may  easily  trace  these  destructive  insects  to  their  hills,  and 
you  may  destroy  them  there,  by  pouring  on  boiling  water  after 
night,  when  they  are  all  at  home. 

Wasps  and  hornets  are  also  very  injurious  to  bees;  and  their 
nests  should  always  be  destroyed  as  soon  as  they  begin  to 
make  them.  This  can  be  done,  by  holding  under  them  a  stick 
to  the  end  of  which  is  fixed  a  lighted  rag,  that  has  been  greased 
and  dipped  in  brimstone. 

As  fowls  will  eat  bees,  they  should  not  be  allowed  access 
to  the  place  where  the  hives  are  kept. 

The  best  situation  for  hives  is  to  face  the  south  or  the  south- 
east. From  the  north  they  should  always  be  sheltered.  As 
bees  require  a  great  deal  of  water,  they  will  not  thrive  unless 
there  is  a  stream  in  'heir  vicinity.  The  grass  round  their  bench 
should  be  kept  free  from  weeds,  and  some  dwarf  or  low  flowers 
may  come  within  tvo  feet  of  it ;  but  tall  plants  will  assist  de- 
structive insects  in  getting  to  the  bees. 

The  hives  must  .lave  four  sticks  across  the  inside,  at  equal 
distances,  for  the  bees  to  work  on.  The  entrance  hole  may  be 
four  inches  wide,  and  an  inch  and  a  half  high.  Old  hives 
should  not  be  used  for  new  bees ;  for  an  old  hive  is  not  so 
wholesome  as  a  new  one,  and  it  may  probably  be  infested  with 
the  embryos  of  moths  and  other  insects. 

Bees  are  extremely  fond  of  the  blossoms  of  fruit  trees,  (of 
the  peach,  particularly,)  and  of  aromatic  herbs ;  also  of  the 
blossoms  of  beans  nnd  of  white  clover.  But  the  best  honey  is 
made  from  the  flowers  of  the  buck-wheat. 

After  buying  or  selling  a  hive  of  bees,  the  best  time  to  re 
move  it  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  it  away,  is  in  the  evening. 
It  should  be  raised  a  little  from  the  bench  several  hours  before, 


372 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


by  placing  wedges  under  it,  so  that  all  the  bees  may  have  time 
to  get  up  into  the  inside ;  otherwise  they  will  be  very  trouble- 
some. Then  slip  a  board  under  the  hive,  of  the  size  and  shape, 
to  form  a  bottom,  and  plaster  it  on  well  with  mortar.  Prick  a 
card  all  over  with  a  fork,  so  as  to  make  it  full  of  air-holes,  and 
tack  it  over  the  entrance  hole.  Thus  secured,  the  hive  with 
the  bees  in  it,  may  be  conveyed  to  their  new  residence,  which 
should  be  near  enough  for  them  to  arrive  that  night;  otherwise 
the  combs  will  be  injured. 

When  the  bees  become  too  numerous  for  one  hive,  they  issue 
out  in  a  swarm,  with  a  queen  of  their  own,  and  must  be  enticed 
into  a  new  hive,  or  they  will  fly  away  and  be  lost  to  their  owner. 
You  may  know  when  they  are  going  to  swarm,  by  seeing  them 
clustering  in  masses  on  the  bench  or  outside  of  the  hive,  and 
by  the  peculiar  sound  of  their  humming.  A  new  hive  must 
be  in  readiness  to  receive  them,  and  it  should  be  rubbed  about 
the  lower  part  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  with  thyme,  mint, 
marjoram,  or  other  sweet  herbs.  A  large  clean  cloth  (a  sheet, 
for  instance)  should  be  prepared  to  receive  them,  if  necessary. 
Bees,  when  they  are  going  to  swarm,  never  rise  to  begin  their 
flight,  except  on  a  fine,  clear  day,  and  they  all  start  together ; 
generally  between  nine  in  the  morning,  and  five  in  the  afternoon. 

In  superintending  the  swarming  of  bees,  cover  yourself  well 
with  thick  clothing,  tie  on  a  large  hat,  and  put  stout  gloves  on 
your  hands,  so  as  to  guard  against  the  danger  of  feeling  their 
stings,  should  they  become  irritated.  When  the  swarm  has 
risen  and  commenced  its  flight,  it  is  usual  to  have  a  loud  noise 
made  by  tinkling  on  frying-pans,  pot-lids,  kettles,  &c.,  for  the 
purpose  of  driving  them  to  the  nearest  settling-place ;  otherwise, 
they  may  all  go  off  to  some  distant  location  from  whence  they 
cannot  be  recovered.  When  well  tinkled,  they  will  generally 
settle  somewhere  close  at  hand;  most  probably,  on  the  bough 


KEEPING  BEES. 


873 


of  a  tree.  If  the  swarm  rests  on  any  thing  that  can  be  brought 
to  the  ground,  spread  under  it  your  large  linen  cloth,  and  on  the 
cloth  lay  two  sticks  two  feet  asunder.  Let  some  one  climb 
up  quietly,  cut  off  that  part  of  the  branch  of  the  tree,  (if  the 
swarm  has  settled  on  it,)  and  lay  it  gently  on  the  two  sticks 
placed  on  the  cloth.  This  may  be  done  without  disturbing  the 
bees  that  are  clinging  to  the  bough.  Then  quickly  and  dex- 
terously clap  down  the  hive  over  the  swarm ;  fold  the  re- 
mainder of  the  cloth  over  the  whole,  and  thus  carry  it  cautiously 
to  its  station. 

Some  hives  will  swarm  twice ;  the  second  swarming  may  be 
expected  within  three  or  four  days,  but  never  later  than  ten 
days,  after  the  first. 

If  a  hive  divides  into  two  swarms,  it  is  a  sign  that  each 
swarm  has  a  queen.  When  a  cluster  of  bees  are  seen  together, 
forming  a  knot  about  the  size  of  a  plum,  the  queen  will  gene- 
rally be  found  there.  She  is  larger  than  the  other  bees. 
Separate  them,  and  with  a  wine-glass  turned  downward,  you 
may  secure  the  queen.  Put  her  with  a  score  or  two  of  her 
subjects  into  a  box  perforated  with  holes  large  enough  to  admit 
air  and  yet  not  to  allow  the  bees  to  escape.  Feed  them  with 
honey  ;  and  keep  the  queen  in  reserve,  in  case  of  the  death  of 
a  sovereign  in  one  of  the  hives.  When  all  the  bees  of  a  hive 
cease  to  work,  it  is  an  evidence  that  their  queen  is  dead  ;  and 
the  spare  queen  should  then  be  taken  late  in  the  evening,  (wet- 
ting her  wings  to  prevent  her  escape,)  and  introduced  into  the 
hive ;  when  her  new  subjects  will  receive  her  gladly,  and  re- 
sume their  work. 

You  may  take  the  honey  without  destroying  the  bees,  (as  is 
the  usual  practice,)  by  the  following  easy  method.  Dig  a 
small  pit  near  the  hive  bench,  and  have  ready  a  new  empty 
hive  with  four  sticks  laid  across  the  inside,  which  must  be  well 
32 


374 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


rubbed  with  aromatic  herbs.  In  the  evening,  after  the  bees  are 
all  quietly  lodged,  approach  the  hive  and  turn  it  gently  over 
into  the  pit,  with  its  head  downwards.  Then  place  against  its 
mouth  the  mouth  of  the  new  hive,  adjusting  them  so  nicely 
that  no  crack  or  aperture  remains  between.  While  one  person 
holds  the  two  hives  closely  together  in  the  above  manner, 
another  should  take  a  small  stick,  and  beat  gently  round  the 
sides  of  the  lower  hive  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  more ;  during 
which  time,  the  bees  will  all  leave  their  cells  in  the  lower  hive, 
and  ascend  into  the  upper  one.  Then  gently  lift  the  new  hive 
with  all  its  little  tenants  adhering  to  the  interior,  and  stand  it 
on  the  bench  from  whence  the  other  was  taken.  This  should 
be  done  about  the  third  week  in  June,  that  the  bees  may  have 
time  to  make  a  new  stock  of  honey  during  the  summer. 

Bees  can  be  fed  in  the  winter  with  refuse  honey,  after  the 
best  has  been  drained  off;  and  with  brown  sugar  simmered 
with  fresh  beer  to  the  consistence  of  molasses ;  allowing  a  pint 
of  beer  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  This  should  be  introduced  into 
the  hive,  by  means  of  small  wooden  troughs  put  in  at  the  door. 

Nevertheless,  a  large  quantity  of  good  honey  in  combs  will 
also  be  necessary  to  keep  them  alive  during  the  winter;  and 
their  hives  should  be  covered  with  straw  and  kept  warm. 

To  strain  honey. — Take  a  knife  and  cut  the  combs  across 
into  small  squares ;  lay  them  in  a  sieve,  asd  place  the  sieve 
over  a  broad  deep  pan,  and  set  it  in  the  hot  sun  or  before  the 
fire.  When  the  pieces  of  honey-comb  are  well  drained  on  one 
side,  turn  them  on  the  other.  After  the  honey  has  settled,  a 
scum  will  be  found  on  the  top,  which  must  be  taken  off.  Then 
transfer  the  honey  to  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  it  closely.  Put  the 
combs  into  a  thin  linen  bag,  set  a  vessel  under  it,  and  by 
squeezing  and  pressing,  you  may  get  out  some  more  honey ; 
which,  however,  will  be  inferior  to  that  which  has  run  freely 


TAKING    CARE    OF  GOLD-FISH. 


875 


of  itself.  It  will  assist  in  feeding  bees ;  or  it  may  be  made 
■into  a  paste  with  lard  or  melted  spermaceti,  and  will  be  good 
for  chapped  hands. 

To  obtain  the  wax,  take  the  combs,  after  all  the  honey  has 
been  extracted  from  them,  and  having  tied  them  up  in  a  bag, 
(placing  some  pebble  stones  at  the  bottom  to  keep  them  down,) 
put  the  bag  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  and  hang  it  over  the 
fire.  As  the  water  heats,  the  wax  melts  and  rises  to  the  top, 
while  the  impurities  remain  below.  Afterwards,  put  the  melted 
wax  into  small  saucers,  and  set  it  in  the  air  to  cool.  It  will 
come  out  in  cakes ;  first  wrapping  round  each  saucer  a  cloth 
dipped  in  hot  water,  to  loosen  the  wax. 

TO  TAKE  CARE  OF  GOLD-FISH.— It  is  a  mistake  to 
suppose  that  gold-fish  kept  in  glass  globes  require  feeding. 
They  have  the  singular  property  of  subsisting  on  the  invisible 
animalculse  of  the  water ;  and  though  they  will  eat  bread  or 
vermicelli  if  given  to  them,  they  are  much  better  without  it. 
It  is  necessary,  however,  to  change  the  water  every  day;  as 
clean  fresh  water  is  indispensable  to  their  existence,  when 
confined  in  a  small  space.  To  do  this,  empty  the  globe  into  a 
large  basin,  pouring  the  fish  along  with  the  water.  Wash  the 
globe  very  clean  inside  and  out,  making  it  look  perfectly  bright 
and  clear ;  and  fill  it  with  fresh  water.  Then  catch  the  gold- 
fish in  your  hand,  (doing  it  very  carefully,  to  avoid  hurting 
them,)  and  instantly  transfer  them  to  the  globe  of  clean  water. 
Gold-fish,  in  winter,  should  always  be  kept  in  a  warm  room. 
It  is  not  well  to  have  more  than  two  fish  in  one  globe. 

TO  MAKE  BREAD  SEALS.— On  receiving  letters  with 
handsome  seals,  do  not  break  the  wax,  but  cut  round  it  with 
a  pair  of  scissors.   When  you  have  collected  a  number  from 


376 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


which  you  wish  to  make  bread  seals,  proceed  as  follows.  Get 
afresh  loaf  of  baker's  bread  baked  that  day,  and  pare  off  all 
the  crust.  Mix  in  a  deep  dish,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  best 
Indian  ink,  by  rubbing  it  with  water,  so  as  to  form  a  liquid 
about  the  consistence  and  colour  of  good  writing  ink.  Then 
lay  aside  the  cake  of  Indian  ink,  and  take  the  crumb  or  soft 
part  of  the  bread,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  with  your  hands  work 
it  with  the  black  liquid  into  a  stiff  dough,  working  and  knead- 
ing it  well,  till  thoroughly  incorporated.  Then  divide  the 
black  dough  into  bits  about  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  and  form 
them  into  the  shape  of  a  watch  seal.  Have  ready  the  wax 
seals  whose  impression  you  wish  to  take,  and  press  hard  upon 
each  of  them  the  large  end  of  one  of  the  bread  seals,  till  the 
device  is  deeply  stamped.  If  you  do  not  get  a  good  impression 
at  first,  smooth  over  the  surface  of  the  bread  seal  and  press  it 
again  upon  the  wax.  When  they  are  all  done,  and  properly 
stamped,  place  them  on  a  plate,  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other, 
and  set  them  on  a  dark  cool  closet-shelf  to  dry  gradually.  If 
dried  in  the  sun  or  by  the  fire,  they  will  crack,  and  be  useless. 
When  perfectly  dry,  they  will  be  as  hard  as  stones,  and  may 
be  used  like  any  other  seal ;  giving  a  very  good  impression  to 
the  wax,  though  not  quite  so  strong  as  that  of  a  cornelian  or 
metal  signet. 

After  making  bread  seals,  you  will  find  it  necessary  to  use 
lemon  juice  or  salt  of  lemon  before  you  can  remove  the  black 
stain  from  your  hands. 

By  means  of  a  bread  seal,  you  may,  in  answering  the  letter 
of  a  friend,  return  on  the  wax  the  same  device  that  you  have 
received. 


TO  MAKE  WRITING  INK.— Procure  at  a  druggist's 
four  ounces  of  blue  Aleppo  nut-galls,  as  perfect  and  free  from 


MAKING    WRITING  INK. 


377 


blemishes  as  possible ;  those  that  are  smallest  and  bluest  are 
the  best.  Also  half  an  ounce  of  copperas ;  and  half  an  ounce 
of  fine  clean  gum  arabic.  Let  each  of  these  articles  be 
coarsely  bruised  or  pounded,  but  do  not  mix  them.  Put  each 
into  a  separate  queensware  or  earthen  vessel.  Boil  a  quart 
of  clear  soft  water,  (not  more ;)  and  when  it  is  scalding  hot, 
pour  a  pint  and  a  half  of  it  on  the  bruised  nut-galls.  Divide 
equally  the  remaining  half  pint,  and  pour  one  jill  of  it  on  the 
copperas,  and  the  other  jill  on  the  gum  arabic.  Set  them  all 
away  on  a  closet  shelf,  where  they  will  be  free  from  dust ;  or 
cover  them  closely.  Let  them  stand  a  week  to  infuse,  stirring 
them  frequently :  particularly  the  gum  arabic,  which,  otherwise, 
will  get  into  a  clod.  At  the  end  of  a  week,  pour  the  copperas 
and  the  gum  arabic  into  the  larger  vessel  that  contains  the  nut- 
galls,  and  stir  the  whole  together.  Let  it  stand  open  for  two 
or  three  days.  Then  have  ready  a  clean  black  bottle  that  will 
hold  a  quart,  and  drop  into  it  a  dozen  cloves  slightly  bruised. 
Put  a  funnel  into  the  mouth  of  it,  set  a  strainer  in  the  funnel, 
and  pour  the  mixture  through  them  into  the  bottle.  Place  the 
bottle  (uncorked)  for  three  or  four  days  in  the  open  air,  which 
will  blacken  the  ink.  Then  cork  it,  and  the  ink  will  be  ready 
for  use.  The  cloves  are  to  preserve  it  from  moulding.  Tuis 
ink  will  be  found  excellent ;  improving  in  blackness  after  it 
has  remained  a  while  on  the  paper. 

You  may  make  a  quart  of  ink  in  this  manner,  at  one  fourth 
the  cost  of  the  same  quantity  obtained  at  a  stationer's. 

Before  you  replenish  an  ink-stand,  empty  out  the  dregs,  fill 
it  with  warm  water,  and  let  it  soak  a  while.  Then  wash  out 
all  the  sediment  that  sticks  about  the  sides  and  bottom,  and 
rinse  it  quite  clean ;  otherwise  the  remains  of  the  old  ink  will 
thicken  and  injure  the  new. 

32* 


378 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


RED  INK — Take  four  ounces  of  the  raspings  of  Brazil 
wood ;  half  an  ounce  of  powdered  alum ;  and  a  pint  of  the 
best  vinegar.  Put  them  into  a  pipkin,  and  boil  them  gently 
one  hour.  Let  the  ink  stand  for  two  or  three  days,  to  deepen 
the  colour;  then  strain  it  and  bottle  it  for  use. 


DURABLE  INK.— Put  into  a  two  ounce  phial,  a  hundred 
grains  of  lunar  caustic;  two  drachms  of  the  best  and  cleanest 
gum  arable  pounded  to  powder ;  one  scruple  of  sap  green ;  and 
one  ounce  of  clear  soft  water. «  Cork  it,  and  let  it  stand  two 
days  in  the  hot  sun,  or  near  the  fire.  This  is  the  marking 
ink. 

For  the  sizing  liquid,  put  into  a  larger  phial,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  powdered  gum  arable  dissolved  in  a  large  table-spoon- 
ful of  boiling  water;  and  add  to  it  half  an  ounce  of  su6-carbo- 
nate  of  soda  dissolved  in  four  ounces  of  hot  water.  Mix  them 
well  together,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  days,  stirring  it 
frequently. 

It  is  best  to  mark  linen  on  a  dry  day.  Dip  a  camel's-hair 
brush  or  the  feather  of  a  quill  into  the  sizing  liquid,  and  wet 
with  it  a  place  a  little  larger  than  is  sufficient  to  contain  the 
name  you  wish  to  mark.  Then  dry  it  in  the  sun  or  by  the  fire. 
Next  day  smooth  the  place  with  a  warm  iron ;  and  dipping  a 
clean  pen  into  the  ink  or  marking  liquid,  write  with  it  on  the 
sizing.  To  get  it  very  black,  pour  off  into  a  cup  the  thin 
liquid  from  the  top ;  dip  your  pen  into  the  thick  black  at  the 
bottom,  and  write  with  it.  When  you  have  done,  return  the 
thin  liquid  to  the  ink  phial.  Place  the  linen  in  the  sun  or  near 
the  fire,  and  after  the  ink  has  dried,  smooth  it  with  an  iron. 
Next  day,  wash  the  marked  place  in  a  basin  with  cold  water 
and  Castile  soap,  to  set  the  colour  before  it  goes  into  the  gene- 
ral wash. 


LIQUID   COLOURS    FOR   MAPS,  ETC.  379 

If  you  find,  upon  trial,  that  the  ink  is  not  black  enough,  add 
fin  inch  more  of  lunar  caustic  to  the  small  bottle. 

Durable  ink  may  be  extracted  from  linen,  by  stretching  the 
part  over  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  rubbing  on  it  with  your 
finger  some  oxalic  acid  or  salt  of  lemon.  Then  wash  the  place 
immediately  in  warm  soap-suds,  and  rinse  it  in  cold  water. 

LIQUID  COLOURS  FOR  MAPS,  &c.— To  make  a  fine 
red  colour,  take  an  ounce  of  powdered  cochineal,  three-quarters 
of  an  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  a  piece  of  alum  the  size 
of  a  hickory  nut;  this  alum  must  be  finely  powdered.  Put  the 
cochineal  and  the  alum  into  an  earthen  pipkin  with  rather  less 
than  a  pint  of  clear  soft  water,  and  boil  them  for  half  an  hour, 
stirring  in  gradually  the  cream  of  tartar.  Then  strain  it,  and 
put  it  away  for  use  in  a  clean  bottle  tightly  corked.  When 
you  go  to  use  it,  pour  out  some  into  a  cup,  and  dilute  it  with 
water,  till  you  get  it  the  tint  you  want. 

Light  Blue  Colouring. — Break  up  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
blue  vitriol.  Put  it  into  a  pipkin  with  less  than  a  pint  of  clear 
soft  water,  and  set  it  over  hot  coals.  Add  gradually,  while  it 
is  boiling,  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar;  and  boil  the  mix- 
ture half  an  hour.  Then  strain,  and  bottle  it  for  use.  This 
is  a  light  and  beautiful  blue.  Dilute  it  with  water  when  you 
use  it. 

Bright  Green  Colouring, — ^Take  some  of  the  above  blue 
vitriol  colouring,  and  melt  in  it  a  small  lump  of  gamboge. 
Then  stir  it  well. 

Fine  Yellow — Dissolve  lump  gamboge  (which  must  never 
be  pulverized)  in  soft  water. 

Deep  Blue  Colouring. — Break  up  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
indigo,  and  put  it  into  a  large  bottle.  Pour  on  it  eight  ounces 
of  oil  of  vitriol.    Cork  it,  and  let  it  stand  a  week,  shaking  it 


380 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


several  times  a  day.  By  diluting  it  with  water,  you  may  have 
the  colour  as  pale  as  you  please.  By  adding  gamboge  to  this 
blue,  you  may  make  a  dark  green. 

Purple  and  Lilac. — Mix  together  the  above  blue  colouring,  and 
the  liquid  cochineal,  diluting  it  with  water  to  the  tint  required. 

Brown. — Take  three  ounces  of  copperas,  break  it  up  small, 
and  boil  it  in  a  pint  of  water  for  half  an  hour.  Then  strain 
and  bottle  it.    Dilute  some  of  it  when  you  wish  a  paler  tint. 

COLOURING  MAPS.— In  colouring  maps,  if  you  find  that 
the  paper  (for  want  of  good  sizing)  is  likely  to  spot  or  sink, 
(which  you  may  ascertain  by  trying  it  with  a  little  water,)  go 
all  over  it  (previous  to  colouring)  with  strong  alum-water, 
washed  on  with  a  very  large  camel's-hair  brush.  Then  dry  it. 
Your  colours  for  washing  the  land  parts  of  the  map  must  be 
entirely  liquid,  and  placed  beside  you  in  cups.  Have  also  a 
small  pitcher  of  water  to  dilute  them  still  more,  if  necessary. 
They  should  be  laid  on  with  a  large  brush,  as  evenly  as  possible ; 
doing  all  the  red  at  once,  then  all  the  blue,  then  all  the  yellow, 
&c.  Designate  the  water  with  light  blue  carried  along  the 
edge  of  the  land,  and  shaded  off,  till  nearly  colourless.  When 
the  different  sections  of  the  map  are  all  washed  with  their  re- 
:  spective  colours,  and  quite  dry,  have  ready  some  cake  colours 
rubbed  on  little  plates  or  saucers,  and  with  a  fine  camel's-hair 
pencil,  mark  out,  with  a  dark  shade  of  each  colour,  all  the 
boundary  outlines. 

A  little  ox-gall  infused  in  the  water  will  greatly  brighten 
the  colours,  and  cause  them  to  flow  more  easily  in  the  brush, 
by  counteracting  the  greasiness  of  the  printing  ink. 


TO  MAKE  PAPER  TRANSPARENT.— Dissolve  some 
rosin  in  spirits  of  wine.    Dip  into  it  a  camel's-hair  brush,  and 


COURT    PLASTER,  &C. 


381 


with  it  go  over  as  much  of  the  paper  as  you  wish  to  make 
transparent,  doing  it  on  both  sides. 

A  coloured  drawing  or  engraving  may  be  made  by  this 
application  transparent  in  those  parts  where  moonlight  or  fire- 
light is  intended  to  be  very  bright.  Afterwards,  they  can  only 
be  seen  to  advantage  with  a  light  behind  them.  The  same 
application  is  used  for  transparencies  painted  on  linen  or  thick 
muslin  stretched  on  a  frame. 


TO  MAKE  COURT  PLASTER.— Stretch  tightly,  some 
thin  black  or  flesh-coloured  silk  in  a  wooden  frame,  securing 
it  with  pack-thread  or  small  tacks.  Then  go  all  over  it  with 
a  soft  bristle  brush  dipped  in  dissolved  isinglass  or  strong 
gum-arabic  water.  Give  it  two  or  three  coats,  letting  it  dry 
hetween  each.  Then  go  several  times  over  it  with  white  of  egg. 

TO  MAKE  POUNCE.— Powder  very  finely,  some  gum 
sandarac — sift  it,  and  put  it  into  a  little  box.  It  is  used  to 
smooth  the  paper  after  scratching  out  with  your  penknife  a 
blot  or  an  error  in  writing.  Rub  on  the  pounce  with  your  finger. 

TO  PRESERVE  PENCIL  MARKS  If  you  have  any 

thing  drawn  or  written  with  a  lead  pencil  that  you  wish  to  pre- 
serve from  rubbing  out,  dip  the  paper  into  a  dish  of  skimmed 
milk.  Then  dry  it,  and  iron  it  on  the  wrong  side.  In  ironing 
paper  do  not  let  the  iron  rest  a  moment,  (as  it  will  leave  a 
crease  or  mark,)  but  go  over  it  as  rapidly  as  possible. 


882 


SEWING  WORK. 


REMARKS. 

No  sort  of  sewing  work  can  go  on  well,  unless  there  is  at 
hand  a  sufficient  and  well  chosen  supply  of  every  thing  neces- 
sary to  its  accomplishment. 

In  providing  needles,  short  ones  will  generally  be  found  most 
convenient,  and  their  eyes  should  be  rather  large.  Many  of 
the  needles  that  are  put  up  in  assorted  quarters  of  a  hundred, 
are  so  small  as  to  be  of  no  possible  use  to  any  one.  There- 
fore, in  buying  needles,  it  is  best  to  select  for  yourself.  Have 
always  some  that  are  ■otry  large,  for  coarse  strong  purposes. 
When  a  needle  breaks  or  bends,  put  it  at  once  into  the  fire ; 
for  if  thrown  on  the  floor  or  out  of  the  window,  it  may  chance 
to  run  into  the  foot  of  some  one.  It  is  well  to  get  at  least  a 
dozen  cotton  spools  at  a  time,  that  you  may  have  always  at 
hand  the  different  gradations  of  coarse  and  fine.  The  fine 
spools  of  coloured  cotton  are  far  better  for  many  purposes  than 
bad  sewing  silk ;  but  coloured  sewing  cotton  should  only  be 
used  for  things  that  are  never  to  be  washed,  as  it  always  fades 
after  being  in  water.  Mourning  chintz  should  on  no  account 
be  sewed  with  black  cotton,  as  it  will  run  when  wet,  and  stain 
the  seams.  The  sewing  silk  now  made  in  America  is  of  ex- 
cellent quality,  and  far  superior  to  the  imported  both  in  strength 
and  smoothness.  Of  foreign  sewing  silk,  the  Italian  is  good, 
provided  it  is  not  very  fine ;  in  which  case,  being  only  two 
threaded,  it  will  split  and  ravel,  and  besides  is  very  weak. 


SEWING  WORK. 


383 


The  best  English  sewing  silk  is  excellent,  being  both  strong 
and  pliable.  The  India  is  strong,  but  harsh,  wiry,  and  unplea- 
sant to  use.  It  comes  in  skeins  that  are  twisted  up  very  tightly. 
Silk  is  troublesome  to  wind,  and  is  weakened  by  the  process. 
It  is  better  to  cut  the  skeins  at  the  tying-place,  and  put  them 
into  long  papers.  By  laying  on  each  other  six  half-sheets  of 
long  or  foolscap  paper,  and  sewing  them  together  down  the 
middle,  as  if  making  a  book,  and  then  folding  each  division 
lengthways  into  a  thread-paper,  you  may  have  a  recep- 
tacle for  twelve  different  skeins  of  silk;  keeping  them  all 
compact  by  means  of  a  narrow  ribbon  or  tape  tied  round  the 
whole. 

Except  for  some  very  slight  purposes,  it  is  best  to  buy  no 
tape  that  is  not  twilled.  Real  linen  tape  is  now  scarcely  to 
be  found  at  any  price;  all  that  passes  for  it  being  only  of 
glazed  cotton ;  therefore,  since  you  must  have  cotton,  it  is 
better  to  get  the  twilled,  as  it  is  very  strong,  and  not  apt  to 
break.  In  buying  cotton  cord,  choose  that  which  is  quite  small, 
or,  when  covered,  it  will  be  clumsy ;  and  see  that  it  is  clean 
and  of  a  good  white,  particularly  if  intended  for  muslin;  as  it 
will  show  through  the  covering,  and  never  wash  whiter.  It  is 
well  to  buy  a  dozen  hanks  of  cord  at  a  time. 

In  choosing  galloon  or  silk  ferret,  inspect  it  attentively  to 
see  if  it  is  not  half  cotton,  instead  of  being  all  silk.  If  there 
is  cotton  in  it,  the  colour  will  be  dull,  and  it  will  very  soon 
break.  There  are  thick  stout  ribbons  (usually  broad)  that  have 
cotton  in  them,  and  wear  rough  and  rusty  almost  immediately : 
do  not  buy  them. 

You  will  require  several  bodkins  of  different  sizes.  The 
smoother  they  are,  the  better  they  will  run  through  the  cases. 
Always  get  them  with  a  knob  at  the  end.  Steel  bodkins  are 
more  serviceable  than  those  of  gold  or  silver ;  but  in  buying 


384 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


steel  ones,  take  care  that  they  are  not  pewter :  this  you  may 
ascertain  by  trying  if  they  will  bend. 

You  will  find  it  necessary  to  have  three  pair  of  scissors ;  a 
large  pair  for  cutting  out  things  that  are  thick  and  heavy ;  a 
smaller  pair  for  common  use,  and  a  very  small  pair  for  work 
that  is  nice  and  delicate.  They  should  all  be  sharp-pointed. 
When  your  scissors  begin  to  grow  dull,  have  them  ground  at 
once.  The  cost  will  not  exceed  six  cents  for  each  pair,  (even 
if  ground  at  a  surgical  instrument  shop,)  and  haggling  with 
dull  scissors  is  very  uncomfortable  work. 

It  is  well  to  have  always  two  thimbles,  in  case  of  one 
chancing  to  be  mislaid.  "When  you  find  that  a  hole  is  worn  in 
your  thimble,  give  up  the  use  of  it ;  as  it  will  catch  the  eyes 
of  your  needles  and  snap  them  off. 

Keep  always  coarse  brown  thread  in  the  house ;  also  hanks 
of  gray,  white,  and  black  worsted,  for  darning  winter  stockings ; 
and  slack  twisted  cotton,  and  strong  floss  silk,  for  repairing 
other  stockings. 

As  mother-of-pearl  buttons  have,  from  their  superior  durabi- 
lity, almost  entirely  superseded  the  use  of  thread  buttons,  it  is 
well  to  keep  a  supply  of  them  always  in  the  house,  buying 
several  cards  at  a  time.  It  is  a  saving  of  expense,  as  well  as 
of  time  and  trouble,  to  buy  every  sort  of  sewing  material  in 
quantities,  as  far  as  convenient.  There  is  also  economy  in 
purchasing  plain  ribbons  by  the  piece,  when  they  are  of  excel- 
lent quality.  Keep  your  ribbons  always  wound  on  blocks  and 
secured  with  minikin  pins.  You  can  easily  obtain  blocks  from 
the  shops  where  ribbons  are  sold.  In  winding  on  a  block  a 
ribbon  that  is  in  two  pieces,  slip  the  end  of  the  second  piece 
under  the  end  left  of  the  first,  and  not  over  it,  or  there  will  be 
a  ridge. 

You  should  appropriate  a  box  or  drawer  entirely  to  the  pur- 


SEWING  WORK. 


385 


pose  of  keeping  materials  employed  in  sewing;  the  articles  for 
immediate  use  being  in  your  work-basket. 

There  are  various  ingenious  needle-books,  so  contrived  as  to 
contain,  in  a  very  small  compass,  all  the  implements  that  may 
be  necessary  to  a  lady  when  she  takes  her  sewing  with  her  on 
a  visit. 

A  piece  of  white  wax,  for  rubbing  on  a  needleful  of  sewing- 
silk  to  strengthen  it,  is  a  most  useful  little  article :  so  also  is 
a  small  box  of  prepared  chalk,  to  dip  the  fingers  in  when  the 
weather  is  warm  and  the  hands  damp.  But,  as  some  portion 
of  the  chalk  will  come  off  upon  your  work,  it  is  best  to  use  it 
only  when  you  are  sewing  white  things.  At  other  times,  you 
will  find  an  emery-bag  indispensable.  Those  that  are  made  for 
sale  have  generally  so  little  emery  in  them,  that  they  are  soon 
found  to  be  useless.  It  is  best  to  make  your  own  emery-bags ; 
ljuying  the  emery  yourself  at  a  druggist's,  or  at  a  hardware 
store. 

We  highly  recommend  a  brick  pincushion,  as  an  important 
article  of  convenience  when  sewing  long  seams,  running 
breadths,  or  hemmmg  ruffles.  It  is  too  heavy  to  overset,  and 
^  far  superior  to  a  screw  pincushion,  which  can  only  be  fixed  to 
a  table  with  a  projecting  edge.  A  brick  pincushion  can  be  set 
anywhere,  even  on  a  chair;  and  enables  the  person  who  has 
|,  pinn^  on  it  her  sewing,  to  sit  always  in  an  upright  posture, 
which  is  a  great  advantage ;  as  to  be  obliged  to  stoop  inces- 
santly over  your  work,  is  extremely  injurious  to  health. 

Get  a  large  clean  brick,  not  in  the  least  broken  or  scaled  off 
at  the  edges,  and  ccwer  it  all  over  with  strong  coarse  tow 
I  linen,  or  thick  cotton  cloth,  sewed  on  tightly  and  smoothly  with 
I  strong  thread.  Then  make  a  bag  of  thick  linen,  allowing  it 
I  to  be  two  or  three  inches  larger  each  way  than  the  top  of  the 
I  brick.    Stuff  the  bag  as  hard  as  possible  with  bran  or  with 

33 


386 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


clean  wool ;  (not  cotton,  as  it  will  prevent  the  pins  from  going 
in.)  You  must  put  in  at  least  two  quarts  of  bran,  but  most 
probably  more.  You  can  procure  bran  at  a  feed-store,  or  from 
a  stable.  In  making  this  pincushion,  you  should  wear  a  large 
apron,  and  keep  the  whole  apparatus  on  a  waiter  or  tray.  Use 
a  spoon  for  putting  the  bran  into  the  bag ;  and  press  it  down 
as  hard  as  possible.  When  the  bag  cannot  hold  any  more, 
even  by  tight  squeezing,  sew  up  the  open  end.  Fit  the  bag 
evenly  all  round  to  the  top  of  the  brick,  and  sew  it  strongly  to 
the  coarse  linen  covering.  Then  sew  a  piece  of  green  baize 
on  the  bottom,  where  it  sits  on  the  table.  Afterwards  cover 
the  whole  pincushion  (except  the  bottom)  with  thick  strong 
silk,  or  damask,  or  some  other  substantial  material.  It  is  best 
not  to  ornament  it  with  bows,  as  your  thread  may  catch  round  | 
them  when  you  are  sewing. 

All  mantua-raakers  and  seamstresses  should  be  provided 
with  brick  pincushions.    They  can  be  made  at  a  very  trifling  j 
cost :  and,  with  renewed  coverings,  will  last  twenty  years  or 
more. 

A  smaller  pincushion  may  be  made  in  a  similar  manner, 
substituting  for  the  brick  a  square  block  of  wood.  These  block 
pincushions  are  not  heavy  enough  to  use  when  sewing  a  long 
seam,  but  they  are  very  convenient  to  hold  the  pins  you  may 
want  when  cutting  out  and  fixing  work  on  a  bed  ;  for,  having 
flat  bottoms,  they  are  not  liable  to  roll  off.  You  may  also  make 
a  very  handsome  toilet  pincushion  with  a  block  for  its  foun- 
dation. 


MAKING  UP  LINEN.— In  buying  linen,  select  that  which 
(however  fine)  is  thick,  and  has  a  round,  close  thread.  If  not 
a  perfectly  good  white  at  first,  let  no  persuasion  induce  you  to 
take  it;  as,  whatever  you  maybe  told  to  the  contrary, you  wiil 


MAKING    UP  LINEN. 


387 


find  that  it  is  beyond  the  skill  of  any  laundress  to  whiten  it, 
even  by  repeated  washings,  boilings,  and  spreadings  on  the 
grass.  Much  of  the  linen  that  is  now  imported  is  half  cotton, 
instead  of  being  all  flax  ;  and  the  deception  is  so  complete,  that 
it  is  extremely  difficult  to  discover  it  till  after  washing  and 
ironing.  It  will  then  be  evident  by  the  threads  being  flatter 
and  less  glossy  than  when  all  of  linen;  also  it  will  be  found 
to  wear  very  badly,  breaking  into  slits  after  being  a  short  time 
in  use.  We  have  seen  very  fine  linen  of  this  sort,  that  went 
into  slits  even  while  making  up,  merely  in  stroking  the  gathers 
with  the  point  of  a  needle.  If  it  is  oflfered  for  sale  considerably 
under  the  usual  cost  of  fine  linen,  you  may  justly  doubt  its 
goodness  ;  but  even  when  a  high  price  is  asked,  linen  is  some- 
times found  deceptive.  All  fabrics  woven  of  two  diflferent 
materials  (as  flax  and  cotton,  cotton  and  silk,  silk  and  worsted) 
a^e  liable  to  slit  or  fray  very  soon ;  the  threads  of  the  stronger 
article  wearing  out  those  of  the  weaker.  For  a  similar  reason, 
what  is  called  lustre  silk  also  wears  badly,  though,  at  first,  it 
looks  very  rich  and  glossy ;  but  the  cross-threads  being  much 
thicker  than  the  others,  the  fine  threads  are  cut  and  frayed  by 
them  in  a  very  short  time. 

In  choosing  linen,  you  may  generally  test  its  goodness  by  • 
drawing  one  or  two  of  the  threads.  If  the  thread  breaks  imme- 
diately, the  linen  is  not  good  ;  either  being  injured  by  the  pro- 
cess of  rapid  bleaching,  or  having  cotton  in  it.  But  if  you  can 
draw,  each  way,  a  thread  of  a  quarter  of  a  yard  in  length,  you 
may  consider  the  linen  worth  buying.  When  linen  is  very 
good,  a  thread  near  a  yard  long  may  be  drawn  in  it,  without 
breaking. 

Before  it  is  cut  out,  the  piece  of  linen  must  always  be  washed 
^nd  stretched,  to  shrink  it  and  take  out  the  stiflfening.  In 
/making  up  linen,  take  care  not  to  sew  it  with  thread  or  cotton 


\ 


388 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


that  is  too  fine;  or  the  stitches,  after  a  few  washings,  will 
break,  and  the  seams  rip.  The  stitching,  however,  should  be 
done  with  very  fine  thread.  The  gathering-thread  must  be 
particularly  strong ;  otherwise  it  will  break,  and  give  you  the 
trouble  of  doing  the  gathers  over  again.  Many  use  white  silk 
for  gathering ;  but,  unless  very  excellent,  it  will  break  as  soon 
as  tliread  or  cotton. 

The  buttons  also  must  be  sewed  on  with  very  strong  thread. 

TO  MAKE  A  PLAIN  SHIRT.— A  long  piece  of  yard- 
wide  linen  will  make  eight  shirts  for  a  man  of  moderate  size, 
and  in  a  plain  manner ;  and  it  can  be  so  cut  out  that  not  a 
thread  of  the  linen  will  be  lost.  To  do  this,  proceed  as  follows : 

Take  an  old  shirt,  lay  it  on  a  bed,  and  measure  from  it  the 
lengths  of  eight  bodies,  notching  each  length  with  your  scissors. 
Having  thus  marked  the  divisions,  cut  off  the  whole  long  piece 
that  you  intend  for  all  the  bodies.  Next,  cut  off,  from  one  of 
the  sides  of  this  body-piece,  a  long  straight  strip  for  wrist-bands, 
shoulder-straps,  sleeve-linings,  sleeve-gussets,  neck-gussets, 
tail-pieces,  and  bosom-bits.  This  strip  must  be  as  wide,  all 
the  way  along,  as  a  wrist-band  before  it  is  doubled. 

Take  this  long  strip  and  (measuring  by  the  pattern  shirt) 
cut  off  from  it  sixteen  double  wristbands  and  sixteen  neck- 
gussets.  The  neck-gussets  must  be  cut  exactly  square,  but 
doubled  triangularly  when  sewed  in.  The  strip  that  comes 
off  from  the  side  of  the  neck-gussets  is  for  the  sleeve-linings. 
The  remainder  will  make  the  bosom-bits  and  tail-pieces.  Then 
measure,  by  the  pattern  shirt,  the  exact  size  of  the  eight  collars, 
and  cut  them  from  the  large  piece  of  linen  that  was  left  after 
the  bodies  were  taken  off.  Of  yard-wide  linen,  one  breadth 
across  should  make  three  collars.  From  the  remainder  of  the 
linen,  cut  the  sleeves  according  to  the  pattern-shirt.  One 


MAKING    UP  LINEN. 


389 


breadth  across  should  make  tw,o  sleeves.  You  will  find  that 
by  exactly  following  these  directions,  there  will  be  no  clippings 
or  shapings,  but  every  particle  of  the  linen  will  be  turned  to 
account. 

The  old  shirt  must  be  your  model  in  putting  together  and 
sewing  the  different  parts.  It  is  usual  to  make  the  bodies  first ; 
then  the  sleeves ;  then  the  collars,  wrist^bands,  and  neck-gus- 
sets ;  and  lastly  to  put  all  the  different  parts  together. 

For  ruffling  shirts,  a  breadth  of  wide  cambric  is  the  usual 
allowance  for  each  side  of  the  bosom.  If  the  cambric  is  narrow, 
allow  a  breadth  and  a  quarter  to  each  side.  If  too  full,  it  will 
not  lie  smoothly  or  pleat  well;  Half  a  quarter  of  a  yard  is  a 
good  depth  for  each  frill.  This,  if  the  cambric  is  wide,  allows 
a  quarter  of  a  yard  to  each  shirt;  being  two  yards  to  eight 
shirts. 

In  the  room  where  you  generally  cut  out  your  sewing-work, 
you  should  keep  a  yard-stick.  It  is  a  good  practice  to  measure 
things  as  soon  as  they  are  brought  home ;  that  if  there  is  any 
mistake,  in  the  quantity,  you  may  discover  it  at  once,  and  have 
it  rectified. 

In  teaching  a  little  girl  plain  sewing,  it  is  not  necessary  that 
she  should  begin  with  a  shirt;  particularly  if  she  learns  at 
school,  where  making  a  shirt  is  always  a  very  slow  business,  and 
where  some  of  the  pieces  are  frequently  lost  during  the  process. 
A  much  better  way  is,  to  let  a  child  practise  the  varieties  of 
plain  sewing  on  a  yard  of  fine  shirting  muslin,  on  which  her 
instructer  may  contrive  to  show  her  specimens  of  all  the 
different  things  belonging  to  shirt-making;  such  as  sewing 
selvage  seams;  back-stitching  and  felling;  hemming;  fine 
stitching ;  working  button-holes ;  making  gathers  and  sewing 
them  in ;  tail-pieces,  bosom-bits,  neck-gussets,  &g.  When  a 
little  girl  has  successfully  accomplished  all  that  can  be  done 
*33* 


390 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


on  one  of  these  preparatory  yards  of  muslin,  (or  plain-work 
samplers,)  she  will  find  no  difficulty  in  making  a  shirt.  In 
teaching  a  young  person  to  cut  out  linen,  you  had  best  let  her 
begin  with  night-shirts,  which  (except  that  they  are  now  made 
long  enough  to  descend  to  the  feet)  are  cut  out  precisely  accord- 
ing to  the  foregoing  directions  for  a  plain  day-shirt. 


SHIRTS  WITH  BOSOM  PIECES.~For  a  man  of  mode- 
rate size,  you  may  take  from  the  side  of  a  piece  of  yard-wide 
linen,  a  strip  that  will  suffice  for  the  wrist-bands ;  of  course 
allowing  them  double.  Each  body  may  be  measured  about  a 
yard  in  length. 

Cut  out  of  the  fore-body  of  each  a  square  piece,  three  fingers 
long  and  three  fingers  wide.  This  square  piece,  split  in  two, 
must  be  sewed  as  lining  on  each  side  of  the  back  part  of  the 
body.  The  false  bosoms,  collars,  &c.,  are  frequently  made  of 
finer  linen  than  the  rest  of  the  shirt.  The  false  bosom  must 
be  wider  on  the  left  side  than  on  the  right ;  for  instance,  half 
a  yard  and  a  nail  (or  sixteenth  of  a  yard)  on  the  left  side,  and 
a  quarter  and  a  half-quarter  on  the  right.  It  must  have  a  broad 
tuck  on  each  side ;  and  on  the  edge  of  the  left  (where  it  lies 
over  the  right)  a  broad  hem,  with  a  row  of  stitching  near  the 
extreme  edge.  This  bosom  piece  should  be  neatly  inserted 
into  the  square  place  cut  out  for  its  reception,  back-stitching 
and  felling  it  down,  and  making  the  seams  as  small  as  possible. 
When  sewing  it  to  the  two  lower  corners  of  the  bosom  piece, 
two  pleats  must  be  laid  in  the  body  of  the  shirt.  The  wrist- 
bands should  be  cut  of  a  crescent  form,  and  the  sleeve  gathered 
injo  the  hollow  or  concave  part.  Do  not  make  them  bias,  or 
they  will  stretch  out  of  shape  in  ironing. 

Shirts  made  in  this  manner  may  either  have  a  collar  sewed 


MAKING    UP  LIKEN. 


391 


on  permanently,  or  you  may  finish  them  with  a  binding  round 
the  neck,  to  be  worn  with  a  false  collar. 

A  SHIRT  OPEN  AT  THE  BACK  OF  THE  NECK.— 

If  the  shirts  are  for  a  man  of  moderate  size,  and  the  linen  is 
yard-wide,  you  may,  in  cutting  out  the  body,  (which  should 
be  a  yard  in  length,)  take  a  strip  oflf  the  side  for  the  wrist-bands, 
&c.  Slit  the  back  of  the  shirt,  down  from  the  neck,  about  half 
a  yard  deep.  This  slit  must  be  hemmed ;  and  at  its  termina- 
tion a  tuck  is  to  be  laid  all  the  way  down  the  remainder  of  the 
shirt-back.  Cut  a  square  piece  out  of  the  upper  part  of  the 
fore-body,  (about  a  quarter  and  a  half-quarter  deep,  and  the 
same  in  width,)  for  the  purpose  of  admitting  a  full  bosom  piece. 
This  square  piece  of  linen  will  come  into  use  for  sleeve-linings, 
shoulder-linings,  &c.  The  bosom  piece  must  be  cut  about 
three-quarters  wide,  and  a  quarter  and  a  half-qiiartar  deep.  It 
is  to  be  set  into  the  open  square  made  for  its  reception  in  the 
fore-body  ;  first  laying  it  into  three  broad  pleats  of  equal  size, 
basting  them  down  till  you  have  fitted  the  bosom  piece  and  cut 
out  the  neck  to  the  proper  size.  Then  close-stitch  the  pleats 
all  the  way  down  by  a  drawn  thread.  Afterwards  insert  the 
bosom  piece  into  its  place,  back-stitching  and  felling  it  down 
neatly,  first  basting  it  in.  Dispose  of  the  extra  width  of  the 
fore-body  (where  it  joins  the  lower  part  of  the  bosom  piece)  by 
laying  small  pleats,  one  at  each  comer,  and  two  meeting  in  the 
centre.  Insert  into  the  top  of  each  shoulder  (where  the  collar 
is  to  go  on)  a  neck-gusset,  gathered  a  little  at  the  upper  edge. 
Line  the  tops  of  the  shoulders  with  an  under  piece  about  half 
a  finger  broad. 

Gather  the  back  of  the  neck ;  having  cut  out  the  front,  round- 
ing it  downwards.  The  neck,  both  before  and  behind,  must 
have  a  binding  made  of  a  double  piece  of  linen,  about  half  a 


392 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


finger  deep  when  doubled.  This  binding  must  be  a  straight 
band,  and  should  have  two  buttons  and  button-holes  behind, 
(one  above  another,)  and  directly  in  front  a  button  to  sustain 
the  false  collar  with  which  these  shirts  are  always  worn. 

The  sleeves  must  be  cut  quite  straight.  A  breadth  of  yard- 
wide  linen  will  make  a  pair  of  sleeves.  The  sleeve-gussets 
may  be  a  finger  and  a  half  square.  Gather  the  sleeves  at  the 
shoulders  and  at  the  wrists.  The  wrist-bands  must  be  of 
double  linen,  (not  cut  bias,)  in  depth  about  a  finger.  They 
should  be  cut  spreading  or  fanning,  so  as  to  be  wider  on  the 
back  of  the  hand  than  at  the  wrist,  and  hollowed  out  or  made 
concave  at  the  bottom,  where  they  are  sewed  on  to  the  sleeve- 
gathers.  Round  them  off  at  the  upper  corners,  and  finish  them 
with  a  row  of  fine  stitching,  a  very  little  distance  from  the 
edge.    Put  a  button  and  button-hole  to  each. 

No  other  buttons  are  now  used  for  shirts  than  those  of 
mother-of-pearl. 


TO  MAKE  A  FALSE  COLLAR.— Take  a  straight  piece 
of  double  linen,  about  two  inches  deep  when  doubled,  and  turn 
in  the  edges.  This  is  for  the  band  or  basis  of  the  collar,  and 
is  concealed  under  the  cravat.  For  the  cheeks  or  visible  part 
of  the  collar,  cut  out  two  pieces  of  linen,  (with  linings  for 
each,)  making  them  about  half  a  finger  deep  in  front,  or  perhaps 
deeper.  Slope  their  upper  edges  down  towards  the  back  of  the 
neck,  till  their  depth  is  reduced  to  little  more  than  an  inch ; 
and  give  the  lower  edges  a  slight  curve  inwards,  where  it  is  to 
join  the  straight  neck-band.  The  front  corners  that  come  on 
the  cheeks  must  be  rounded  off,  and  sloped  a  little  inwards  as 
they  descend  to  the  neck-band,  into  which  these  cheek  pieces 
must  be  sewed.  They  must  have  a  row  of  fine  stitching  all 
round,  a  little  distance  from  the  upper  edge.    Directly  in  front 


MAKING    UP  LINEN. 


393 


of  the  neck-band  to  which  they  are  sewed,  make  a  perpendicular 
button-hole,  to  meet  the  button  on  the  inner  binding  of  the 
shirt-neck.  Strengthen  the  lower  part  of  this  button-hole  by- 
sewing  a  bit  of  fine  tape  at  its  bottom.  At  the  back  of  the 
false  collar,  sew  to  each  end  a  string  of  fine  tape,  (about  half 
a  yard  long,)  to  tie  it  on  with. 

For  a  moderate-sized  man,  the  collar-band  may  measure 
somewhat  more  than  a  quarter  and  a  half-quarter  round  the 
neck. 

A  FALSE  SHIRT-BOSOM.— Take  a  piece  of  yard-wide 
linen,  at  least  a  quarter  and  a  half-quarter  in  length,  and  make 
a  narrow  hem  up  each  side,  slightly  sloping  them  towards  the 
shoulders.    Lay  over  in  the  middle  a  broad  tuck,  that,  when 
folded  or  creased  down,  will  be  a  nail  in  breadth;  and  close  to 
it,  on  both  sides,  make  two  smaller  tucks,  each  a  little  more 
than  an  inch  broad.  The  broad  or  middle  tuck  must  be  stitched 
down  permanently,  and  it  should  have  a  row  of  fine  stitching 
near  the  folded  edge.    The  other  four  tucks  need  only  IS^'laid 
over;  basting  them  down  to  keep  them  in  place  till  after  they 
are  secured  by  the  bindings  at  top  and  bottom.    At  the  bottom 
put  a  binding  of  linen,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  broad  when 
doubled ;  working  a  cross-way  or  horizontal  button-hole  in  the 
centre  of  its  front,  and  sewing  to  each  extremity  of  the  binding 
tape  strings  about  half  a  yard  in  length.    Bind  the  neck  with 
a  strip  of  linen,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  broad  when  doubled, 
and  perhaps  a  quarter  and  a  half-quarter  in  length ;  and  make 
directly  in  front  a  cross-way  button-hole.    Between  the  neck- 
binding  and  the  main  piece  of  linen,  insert  at  each  shoulder  a 
small  single  neck-gusset,  cut  out  in  a  triangular  shape,  about 
half  a  finger  each  way.    Sew  on  each  end  of  the  neck-binding 
a  tape  string  about  half  a  yard  long. 


394 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


These  false  shirt  bosoms  are,  of  course,  always  worn  with 
separate  collars  tied  on  above  them. 


CHEMISES.— For  the  body,  cut  two  breadths  of  yard  wide 
linen  into  lengths  of  a  yard  and  a  quarter  each.  This  will 
make  a  chemise  sufficiently  long  for  a  middle-sized  woman,  or 
for  one  rather  above  the  middle  size.  For  a  small  woman  a 
yard  and  a  half  quarter  will  be  long  enough.  From  one  side 
of  each  breadth,  cut  a  gore  to  sew  on  the  other  side ;  thus 
giving  an  equal  slope  to  both.  The  gores  should  be  little  more 
than  an  inch  wide  at  the  top.  Pin  the  selvage  sides  of  the 
gores  to  the  selvage  edges  of  the  linen,  lay  them  evenly  on  a 
bed,  and  slope  the  gcres  upwards  at  the  bottom ;  otherwise, 
their  lower  ends  will  daggle  down  in  peaks.  The  pieces  sloped 
olF  the  bottoms  of  the  gores  must  be  kept  to  line  the  sleeve- 
holes. 

If  the  sleeves  are  to  have  broad  hems,  cut  them  a  quarter  of 
a  yard  deep.  One  breadth  across  the  linen  will  make  a  pair 
of  sleeves,  excepting  the  gussets.  If  they  are  to  be  gathered 
on  an  arm-band,  a  half-quarter  and  a  nail  will  be  a  sufficient 
depth  for  them.  Next,  cut  out  the  sleeve-gussets,  allowing 
each  a  finger  square.  A  breadth  across  will  make  four  sleeve- 
gussets  and  two  shoulder-straps.  The  shoulder-straps  should 
be  half  a  finger  broad,  (when  doubled,)  and  two  fingers  in 
length. 

If  you  have  plain  loose  sleeves  with  a  broad  hem,  the  che- 
mise, to  correspond,  should  have  the  neck  or  top  (it  being 
perfectly  straight  across,  behind  and  before)  simply  faced  on 
the  inside  with  a  fine  twilled  tape,  so  as  to  form  a  case  for  a 
drawing  string.  If  the  bottoms  of  the  sleeves  are  gathered 
into  arm-bands,  the  neck  or  top  of  the  chemise  body  may  be 
gathered  also  into  a  band,  made  to  fit  the  width  across,  from 


MAKING    UP  LINEN. 


395 


shoulder  to  shoulder;  in  which  case,  there  must  he  a  slit  of  a 
quarter  of  a  yard  deep,  either  down  the  hack,  or  down  the  front 
of  the  neck,  fastening  with  buttons. 

Make  the  body  of  the  chemise  first;  finishing  the  neck,  and 
putting  on  the  shoulder-straps.  Then  have  ready  the  sleeves, 
and  set  them  into  the  sleeve-holes  left  at  the  two  sides.  The 
sleeves  should  be  gathered  on  the  top  of  the  shoulder,  and  the 
shoulder-straps  felled  down  upon  them,  on  each  side.  If  there 
are  arm-bands,  they  should  sit  loosely  round  the  arm.  Next, 
take  the  sloped  pieces  that  came  off  the  bottom  of  the  gores, 
and  with  them,  line  that  part  of  the  body  that  forms  the  sleeve- 
holes;  carrying  down  the  lining  about  an  inch  below  the  lower 
corner  of  the  gusset.  This  will  greatly  strengthen  the  part 
round  the  sleeve-holes. 

Cut  out  in  the  above  manner,  the  whole  of  the  linen  will 
come  into  use,  and  there  will  be  no  shapings  or  clippings  what- 
ever. What  is  called  a  long  piece  of  yard-wide  linen,  will 
thus  make  ten  chemises  for  a  woman  of  moderate  size ;  with 
the  addition  of  an  extra  yard  and  a  quarter  to  complete  the 
body  of  the  last. 

A  lady's  chemise  may  be  trimmed  with  thread  edging,  with 
tetting,  or  with  linen  cambric  frilling.  The  frilling,  to  look 
neatly,  should  be  very  narrow.  In  fulness,  allow  it  a  little 
more  than  twice  and  a  half  the  extent  of  the  parts  on  which  it 
is  sewed. 

For  winter,  chemises  with  long  sleeves  are  very  comfortable; 
and  are  good  preventives  against  rheumatism,  particularly 
when  made  of  fine  thick  American  muslin  or  domestic  cot- 
ton. These  sleeves  may  be  half  a  yard  and  half  a  quarter 
long ;  they  need  not  extend  down  quite  so  far  as  the  wrist. 
One  breadth  of  wide  cotton,  split  in  half,  will  make  a  pair  of 
long  sleeves,  to  which  square  gussets  must  be  added.  You 


396 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


may  gather  them  at  the  lower  part  of  the  arm,  as  well  as  at 
the  shoulder ;  leaving  a  small  slit,  and  setting  on  a  band  to 
fasten  with  a  button.  Or  you  may  leave  them  loose  at  the 
bottom,  merely  finishing  with  a  broad  hem.  In  case  of  illness, 
it  is  most  convenient  to  have  these  long  sleeves  unconficed  at 
the  bottom,  that  they  may  be  rolled  up  above  the  elbow  when 
bleeding  is  necessary. 


MAKING  UP  FLANNEL.— No  one  that  can  afford  the 
price  of  fine  flannel,  should  ever  buy  it  coarse.  There  is  no 
coarse  flannel  that  can  be  washed  without  shrinking  much 
more  than  if  it  was  fine ;  also,  it  is  rough  and  unpleasant  to 
wear,  and  catches  dust  and  dirt  immediately.  In  purchasing 
flannel,  look  particularly  at  the  blue  selvage  edge ;  if  that  is 
thin,  uneven,  and  coarse,  the  flannel  is  not  good ;  but  if  the 
selvage  is  stout,  fine,  and  close  in  its  texture,  you  will  find  the 
flannel  to  wear  well.  For  grown  persons,  always  get  the  wide 
flannel.  Three  breadths  will  make  a  petticoat  for  a  woman 
of  moderate  size;  and  if  the  breadths  are  a  yard  and  a  quarter 
in  length,  they  will  allow  three  tucks,  to  be  let  out  successively 
as  the  flannel  shrinks.  Before  making  it  up,  flannel  should 
always  be  washed  ;  first  dividing  the  breadths,  but  do  not  cut 
off  the  blue  selvage  till  after  the  washing. 

In  sewing  flannel,  lay  the  two  raw  edges  one  over  the  other, 
and  run  them  together  along  the  middle,  with  short  close 
stitches.  Then  cat-stitch  or  herring-bone  each  of  the  raw 
edges  down  to  the  flannel,  making  both  sides  of  the  seam 
exactly  alike,  and  doing  it  very  neatly.  In  making  a  flannel 
petticoat,  put  one  breadth  before  and  two  behind.  At  the  top, 
leave,  exactly  in  front,  a  quarter  of  a  yard  quite  plain ;  pleat 
the  rest,  except  just  behind,  and  there  gather  it.  Bind  it  with 
white  linen,  and.finish  the  pleats  with  a  row  of  close  stitching, 


MAKING   rP  FLANNEL. 


397 


an  inch  below  the  binding.  Sew  to  the  binding  straps  of  broad 
twilled  tape  to  go  over  the  shoulders ;  making  the  straps  long 
enough  to  allow  the  petticoat-binding  to  be  a  little  below  the 
waist  of  your  dresses.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  in  the  back 
part  of  the  petticoat-binding  two  cases,  each  about  a  quarter 
of  a  yard  long,  nicely  stitched,  with  one  end  of  each  left  open, 
and  an  eyelet-hole  worked  on  the  outside  of  the  binding  at  the 
other  termination  of  the  casings.  Into  these  cases,  run  long 
strings  of  twilled  tape,  in  the  manner  of  reticule  strings,  to 
draw  both  ways ;  each  string  being  long  enough  to  cross  in 
front,  and  then  go  round  the  waist  and  tie  behind.  The  loose 
ends  of  the  strings  should  have  a  thick  rolled  hem,  to  prevent 
them,  when  stretched  out,  from  slipping  back  into  the  eyelet- 
holes. 

Baby's  flannel  is  frequently  bound  with  white  ribbon.  Many 
ladies  also  bind  the  bottoms  of  their  petticoats  with  ribbon. 
It  looks  very  nicely  at  first,  but  has  the  disadvantage  of  shrink- 
ing after  it  is  washed,  of  turning  yellow,  and  of  very  soon 
wearing  off,  and  requiring  renewal. 

Flannel  shirts,  jackets,  &c.,  should  be  made  full  large  at  first, 
to  allow  for  shrinking. 

All  the  seams  and  hems  of  flannel  must  be  made  very  flat; 
the  hems  finished  with  a  row  of  running  close  along  the  edge. 
None  of  the  raw  edges  should  be  turned  in  and  felled  down,  as 
it  renders  them  too  clumsy.  The  cat-stitch  or  herring-bone 
should  be  used  instead  of  felling.  The  slits  must  all  be  cat- 
stitched  down,  and  secured  at  the  bottom  with  a  bit  of  tape 
sewed  across. 

In  running  a  tuck,  whether  on  flannel  or  any  thing  else,  the 
best  way  of  regulating  its  width  so  as  to  make  it  all  the  way 
precisely  even,  is  to  cut  out  a  bit  of  stiff  card  exactly  the  depth 
you  intend  to  make  the  tuck,  including  the  regular  distance 
34 


398 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


from  the  hem  or  from  the  last  tuck  below.  This  distance  you 
may  designate  by  making  a  notch  in  the  perpendicular  edge 
of  the  card.  Keep  this  bit  of  card  between  the  thumb  and 
finger  of  your  left  hand,  holding  it  lightly  down  on  the  tuck, 
and  moving  it  along  as  you  proceed.  With  this  guide,  it  is 
impossible  to  run  the  tucks  otherwise  than  straight  and  even ; 
and  it  precludes  the  necessity  of  stopping  to  measure  as  you 
go  along.  Tucking  with  a  card,  is  said  to  be  an  invention  of 
Dr.  Franklin's,  who  suggested  it  to  his  daughter  one  evening 
when  he  observed  her  taking  much  trouble  in  trying  to  get  a 
tuck  even,  by  measuring  it  every  few  minutes  with  the  part 
already  done. 

LADIES'  NIGHT-GOWNS.— Night-gowns  for  summer 
may  be  made  of  narrow-corded  cambric  dimity,  of  cambric 
muslin,  or  of  striped  or  cross-barred  muslin;  each  of  these 
articles  being  ell-wide  or  yard  and  a  quarter,  which  is  the  real 
width  of  what  is  called  six-quarter  muslin.  For  winter,  they 
are  most  comfortable  of  fine,  thick  American  muslin,  the  widest 
you  can  get;  but  it  rarely  exceeds  a  full  yard  in  width. 

Where  the  winters  are  very  severe,  night-gowns  of  wide, 
white  flannel  are  much  in  use. 

For  a  moderately  tall  woman,  the  length  from  the  neck  down 
to  the  feet,  may  be  a  yard  and  a  half;  this  will  generally  allow 
a  good  sized  hem  at  the  bottom.  In  making  a  night-gown  of 
ell-wide  or  yard  and  quarter  muslin,  two  breadths  will  usually 
be  found  sufficient  for  the  front  and  back  from  the  shoulders 
down.  Having  measured  two  breadths,  cut  a  gore  from  the 
side  of  each,  not  the  whole  length,  but  beginning  the  slope 
about  a  quarter  and  a  half-quarter  from  the  top  ;  so  that  when 
sewed  on,  each  gore  will  commence  just  below  the  sleeve  hole. 
Sew  the  selvage  edge  of  these  gores  to  the  selvage  or  straight 


NIGHT-GOWNS. 


399 


edge  of  the  breadths ;  making  the  two  sloped  edges  come  to- 
gether, and  rounding  or  sloping  up  the  corners  at  the  bottom, 
as  in  a  chemise.  The  two  breadths  at  the  top  are  to  be  joined 
together,  after  sloping  the  shoulders  down  from  the  neck.  The 
slope  down  from  the  top  of  tlie  neck  to  the  top  of  .  the  sleeve- 
hole,  should  not  exceed  a  finger  length,  or  half  a  quarter.  If 
the  shoulders  are  long,  and  the  sleeve-holes  small,  (according 
to  the  present  fashion  of  day-dresses,)  the  night-gown  will 
drag  down  uncomfortably,  and  the  upper  part  will  consequently 
tear  or  wear  out  very  soon.  Having  cut  the  shoulder  slopes 
exactly  even,  round  out  the  sleeve-holes ;  giving  them  the  same 
scoop  or  curve  on  both  sides,  and  allowing  them  very  large  and 
easy.  The  length  of  the  sleeves  from  the  top  of  the  shoulder 
to  the  hand,  may  be  about  three-quarters  of  a  yard.  A  breadth 
of  what  is  called  six-quarter  muslin  will  make  a  pair  of 
sleeves ;  dividing  this  breadth  down  the  middle  into  two  pieces, 
and  sloping  a  gore  off  one  side  of  each  piece,  to  sew  to  the 
straight  side  of  the  other.  After  these  gores  are  fitted,  round 
off  the  tops  of  the  sleeves,  but  not  so  much  as  for  a  frock ;  the 
front  part  of  each  sleeve-top  should  have  a  scoop  or  curve  in- 
ward, the  scoop  beginning  at  the  seam  and  going  up  along  the 
front  of  the  shoulder.  All  the  seams  in  a  night-gown  should  be 
hack-stitched  and  felled ;  and  the  shoulders  should  be  strength- 
ened at  the  joining-place,  by  stitching  them  down  upon  broad 
pieces  of  twilled  tape  basted  underneath.  In  cutting  out  the 
neck,  round  out  the  front  much  more  than  the  back.  Cut  a  slit 
down  the  front  breadth  of  the  night-gown,  a  little  more  to  the 
left  side  than  to  the  right,  so  as  to  allow  for  a  perpendicular 
tuck  to  be  laid  over,  all  down  the  front,  from  the  neck  to  the 
feet.  The  length  of  the  .slit  downwards  may  be  something 
less  than  half  a  yard.  On  the  tuck-side  are  to  be  worked  half 
a  dozen  perpendicular  button-holes.   The  other  side  is  to  have 


400 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


a  facing  of  muslin  the  same  breadth  as  the  tuck ;  the  facing  to 
descend  an  inch  or  two  beiow  the  slit,  so  as  to  strengthen  it  at 
the  bottom.  On  the  faced  side  of  the  slit,  set  half  a  dozen 
pearl  buttons. 

The  shape  and  size  of  the  collar  is  a  matter  of  taste ;  but  for 
a  plain  square  collar,  you  may  have  a  piece  of  muslin  about  a 
quarter  of  a  yard  deep  and  half  a  yard  in  width ;  if  for  a  broad 
hem,  it  must  be  larger  every  way.  If  you  wish  the  collar  to 
sit  closely,  give  it  no  scoop  at  the  back  of  the  neck,  but  let  it 
be  perfectly  straight  all  along,  where  it  is  sewed  on  to  the 
gathers.  Line  the  collar,  not  throughout,  but  merely  about 
half  a  finger  up ;  sewing  in  between  the  lining  and  the  outside 
the  gathers  of  the  neck.  Place  a  button  and  button-hole  at  the 
bottom  of  the  collar.  The  sleeves  may  either  be  finished  with 
a  wrist-band  at  the  bottom,  or  left  loose  with  merely  a  broad 
hem ;  the  latter  way  is  best  for  convenience.  The  collar  and 
wrists  of  a  lady's  night-gown  may  be  trimmed  with  frilling  of 
a  thinner  muslin,  or  lace-edging.  Or,  what  is  much  easier 
and  less  expensive,  they  may  be  finished  with  points  or  scol- 
lops along  the  edge ;  made  by  laying  down  a  hem  on  the  right 
side,  and,  with  a  bit  of  card  cut  into  the  proper  shape,  marking 
the  scollops  along  this  hem  with  a  pencil,  but  not  so  close  as 
to  make  them  join  each  other.  Then  run  the  scollops  along 
by  the  pencil-marks,  taking  very  short  stitches;  and,  when 
done,  cut  them  out  with  sharp  scissors,  a  little  distance  above 
the  sewing.  Next  turn  them  over,  so  as  to  make  them  right 
side  out ;  poking  their  edges  even  with  the  blunt  end  of  a  bod- 
kin slipped  inside:  and  then  finish  by  hemming  down  the 
straight  edge. 

Instead  of  sewing  the  gathers  into  the  collar,  night-gowns 
are  very  frequently  made  with  what  is  called  a  yoke^  that  is, 
a  piece  of  muslin  cut  bias  and  made  double,  and  carried  over 


NIGHT-GOWNS. 


401 


the  shoulders.  The  back  and  front  of  the  gown,  and  the  tops 
of  the  sleeves  are  gathered  into  the  yoke,  which,  to  look  well, 
should  not  be  too  deep.  Less  than  a  finger  behind,  and  less 
than  half  a  finger  directly  in  front,  will  be  quite  deep  enough. 
The  yoke  should  be  corded  all  round,  and  have  two  buttons 
to  fasten  it  in  front. 

For  very  warm  weather,  it  is  well  to  have  some  cross-barred 
muslin  night-gowns,  with  short  full  sleeves,  gathered  on  a 
band ;  and,  instead  of  a  collar,  the  neck  also  to  be  gathered  on 
a  narrow  band.  They  will  be  found  very  cool  and  pleasant  in 
flights  of  extreme  heat. 

If  there  is  too  much  fulness  in  the  back  of  a  night-gown,  it 
will  drag  downwards  off  the  neck  behind,  and  ride  up  (as  it  is 
called)  at  the  throat.  To  avoid  entirely  this  inconvenience, 
night-gowns,  when  of  six-quarter  muslin,  are  sometimes  made 
with  the  back-breadth  sloped  into  two  very  large  gores ;  sewing 
them  both  together  by  the  sloped  edges,  so  as  to  make  a  long 
seam  up  the  middle  of  the  back,  from  the  neck  to  the  feet ;  the 
email  ends  of  the  gores  coming  together  at  the  top,  and  fitting 
into  the  collar  or  the  yoke  without  having  any  gathers  behind. 
This  manner  of  cutting  increases  the  width  at  the  bottom  of 
the  gown.  Where  the  gore-seam  terminates  at  the  lower  end, 
each  gore  should  be  sloped  considerably  upwards ;  otherwise 
they  will  hang  down  in  an  awkward  point. 

Loose  gowns  of  black  India  silk  are  very  convenient.  For 
winter  they  should  be  lined  all  through  with  slate-coloured 
glazed  muslin. 

DOUBLE  WRAPPERS.— These  may  be  cut  out  in  the 
same  manner  as  night-gowns.    If  made  of  calico  or  gingham, 
it  is  best  to  have  both  lining  and  outside  of  the  same  material. 
The  seams  are  all  inside,  so  as  to  have  no  raw  edges,  [f 
34* 


402  TITE    HOUSE  BOOK. 

I 

intended  chiefly  for  comfort,  (as  all  wrappers  ought  to  be,)  it 
is  best  to  make  them  loose  all  the  way  down,  without  attempt- 
ing any  thing  like  a  body ;  as  is  sometimes  done  by  having  a 
plain  back,  with  a  case  at  the  bottom,  set  on  a  gathered  skirt 
behind.  These  backs  never  look  even  tolerably  well,  unless 
they  are  drawn  in  tightly  to  the  waist,  and  worn  with  a  belt 
and  over  corsets ;  all  which,  if  the  wrapper  is  designed  for  a 
garment  of  ease,  will  defeat  the  purpose. 

QUILTED  WRAPPERS.— These,  the  warmest  of  all 
wrappers,  are  extremely  convenient  to  slip  on  in  case  of  being 
called  up  in  a  cold  night,  or  after  coming  home  late  in  a  winter 
evening  to  wear  while  preparing  for  bed ;  also  for  many  other 
purposes.  They  are  generally  made  of  dark  calico,  which 
should  have  no  white  in  the  figure ;  and  it  is  best  to  have  them 
lined  with  the  same.  A  light-coloured  lining  looks  soiled 
almost  immediately  ;  and  a  lining  of  glazed  muslin  should  on 
no  account  be  put  in,  as  none  of  these  muslins  will  bear  wash- 
ing; for  their  colour,  when  wet,  will  run  in  streams,  and  spoil 
the  outside  of  the  wrapper.  Quilted  wrappers  are  generally 
cut  so  as  to  wrap  over  very  much  to  one  side,  and  are  left  open 
all  the  way  down,  so  as  to  be  easily  slipped  on.  There  should 
be  no  gathers  or  pleats  at  the  top,  either  behind  or  before ;  as 
the  wadding  will  make  any  fulness  there  uncomfortably  clumsy. 
By  sloping  the  back  from  below  the  arm-holes  upwards,  you 
can  have  it  quite  plain  at  the  place  where  the  collar  goes  on. 
The  collar  should  be  a  square  turn-over,  sitting  closely  to  the 
back  of  the  neck.  The  sleeves  ought  to  be  long,  wide,  and 
set  high  up  on  the  shoulders,  with  a  large  easy  arm-hole. 

After  the  whole  has  been  cut  out,  and  the  breadths  sewed 
together,  lay  the  wadding  (it  should  be  white,  tliick,  and  not 
split)  between  the  lining  and  the  outside,  and  quilt  it  in  large 


NldttT-CAPE   AND  MOOD. 


403 


diamonds,  with  long  needlefuls  of  dark-coloured  silk.  Then 
quilt  the  sleeves  and  the  collar,  and  when  done  put  them  toge- 
ther. Some  persons  find  it  more  convenient  to  quilt  all  the 
breadths  separately.  The  quilting  may  be  done  either  in  a 
frame  or  on  a  large  table. 

If  made  of  proper  materials,  a  quilted  wrapper  may  be  washed 
as  often  as  necessary,  in  the  same  raahner  as  a  bed-quilt. 

A  NIGHT-CAPE. — These  are  very  convenient  for  ladies 
to  wear  when  going  to  or  returning  from  a  summer  evening 
party,  or  upon  any  occasion  when  a  cloak  would  be  too  warm, 
and  when  a  shawl  would  crush  the  upper  part  of  the  dress. 
Tlie  skirts  of  two  left-ofF  silk  dresses  will  make  a  night-cape, 
which  should  be  very  large,  so  as  to  cover  lightly  nearly  the 
whole  of  the  arms,  as  well  as  the  shoulders  and  back. 

Having  ripped  apart  the  skirts  of  two  dresses,  let  the  silk  be 
sprinkled  and  ironed  smoothly.  Then  lay  the  breadths  of  the 
outside  together,  so  as  to  form  an  exact  square,  as  large  as  you 
can  get  it.  Do  the  same  with  the  breadths  of  the  silk  that  is 
to  form  the  lining.  Having  run  all  the  seams,  and  pressed 
them  with  a  warm  iron,  (wetting  them  first  with,  your  finger 
dipped  in  water,)  baste  together  the  two  squares  of  silk,  and 
cut  them  into  an  exact  circle.  In  the  centre  cut  a  round  hole 
to  admit  the  neck,  and  then  split  the  front  of  the  cape  straight 
down ;  afterwards  sloping  it  upwards  a  little,  where  it  meets 
at  the  bottom.  Cord  the  edge  all  round,  and  bind  the  neck 
with  a  band  of  the  same  silk.  You  may  fasten  it  down  the 
front  either  with  buttons  or  with  strings  of  ribbon. 


TO  MAKE  A  LADY'S  HOOD.— Get  a  yard  and  a  half 
of  wide  dark-coloured  silk  for  the  outside,  an  equal  quaritity 
of  light-coloured  silk  for  the  lining,  and  four  yatds  of  narrow 


404 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


mantua  ribbon,  the  colour  of  the  lining;  three  ounces  of  eider- 
down, (which  you  may  obtain  from  a  furrier;)  four  slips  of  fine 
light  bonnet-cane ;  sewing  silk  to  match  the  outside ;  and  a 
yard  and  a  half  of  broad  mantua  ribbon  for  strings,  also  the 
colour  of  the  outside.  For  the  main  part  of  the  hood,  take 
three  quarters  and  a  nail,  or  an  exact  square  of  the  silk,  to  be 
cut  after  you  have  laid  it  bias,  as  both  lining  and  outside  are 
to  be  cut  so.  At  the  part  which  ascends  from  the  back  of  the 
neck  to  the  back  of  the  head,  cut  a  slope  upwards,  about  a 
finger  in  length.  Next,  hem  down  upon  the  lining  the  outside 
silk  along  the  front  edge  of  the  hood,  along  one  of  the  sides, 
and  at  the  back  edge ;  and  run,  at  equal  distances,  three  or 
four  small  double  casings,  which  must  go  horizontally  or  across 
the  silk,  so  as  to  form  it  into  divisions.  When  these  are  done, 
take  the  eider-down,  open  the  end  of  the  paper  bag  that  con- 
tains it,  and  pour  it  carefully,  and  in  equal  portions,  into  each 
of  the  divisions  that  you  run  in  the  silk.  When  you  have  got 
all  the  eider-down  in,  secure  it  by  running  together  the  side  of 
the  hood  that  was  left  open  to  admit  it.  Then  put  drawing 
strings  of  the  narrow  ribbon  (the  colour  of  the  lining)  into  the 
casings,  bringing  out  the  strings  so  as  to  tie-  at  the  side  and 
not  in  the  middle.  In  the  last  or  farthest  back  casing,  run  a 
slip  of  cane  about  three  quarters  and  a  nail  in  length,  and  draw 
up  the  silk  full  upon  it ;  bending  the  cane  round  into  a  circle, 
and  securing  it  well  at  both  of  its  ends.  Sew  up  the  slope  at 
the  hind  part  of  the  hood,  and  whip  over  with  a  gathering 
thread  the  edge  of  the  remaining  silk ;  drawing  it  all  as  close 
as  possible,  till  the  whole  edge  is  brought  together  in  one  place 
at  the  back  of  the  head.  Next,  draw  the  cases  to  the  fulness 
you  wish,  by  pulling  the  ribbon  that  is  run  in  them ;  and  then 
slip  in,  between  the  linirig  and  the  outside,  three  or  four  canes, 
as  long  as  the  full  width  of  the  silk.    These  canes  go  alter- 


A    lady's  hood. 


405 


nately  with  the  drawings,  arching  up,  with  the  silk  stretching 
plain  over  them.  Tack  the  canes  here  and  there  to  the  lining, 
and  secure  them  well  by  making  a  little  split  at  each  of  the 
ends,  and  sewing  them  fast  to  the  silk. 

Afterw^ards,  bind  with  a  narrow  strip  of  lined  silk,  about  an 
inch  broad,  the  two  sides  of  the  hood  where  they  come  down 
on  the  neck ;  gathering  them  to  fit  the  binding,  which  should 
be  about  a  quarter  and  a  half  quarter  in  length,  so  as  to  fit  the 
neck  of  the  wearer  and  meet  under  her  chin.  To  the  lower 
edge  of  this  binding  sew  on  the  cape,  gathering  it  to  fit.  The 
cape  must  be  made  bias ;  and  when  lining  it,  leave  one  end 
open  till  after  you  have  poured  in  some  eider  down.  Of  the 
remaining  silk  make  a  large  bow  (edged  with  a  bias  binding) 
to  go  at  the  back  of  the  head,  on  the  place  where  all  the  gathers 
meet  in  a  centre.  Sew  short  strings  of  the  narrow  ribbon  along 
the  inside  of  the  neck-binding,  so  as  to  meet  eaoh  of  the  ends 
of  those  strings  that  draw  the  casings,  and  tie  with  them. 
Lastly,  sew  on  the  broad  strings  that  are  to  tie  the  hood  under 
the  chin. 

These  are  the  most  convenient  hoods  that  are  made ;  as  they 
can  be  drawn  up  or  let  out  so  as  to  go  over  any  head,  even 
when  drest  high,  or  with  a  cap  or  turban.  And  being  stuffed 
with  eider-down,  they  are  so  light  that  they  never  crush  or  dis- 
compose any  thing  that  is  beneath  them.  If  wadding  is  sub- 
stituted for  eider-down,  it  must  be  basted  to  the  lining,  and  the 
casings  run  afterwards. 

There  should  be  no  trimming  along  the  front  edge  of  a  hood, 
as  it  is  apt  to  catch  in  the  hair. 

To  look  well,  the  outside  and  the  lining  of  a  hood  should  be 
so  contrasted  as  to  harmonize  well  in  colour.  For  instance,  a 
purple  silk  outside,  with  a  lining  of  pale  blue,  light  yellow, 
gold  colour,  or  buff  colour ;  or  a  dark  brown,  or  slate-coloured 


406 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


outside,  with  a  pale  pink  or  light  blue  lining.  A  black  hood 
may  be  lined  with  gray,  pale  blue,  or  pink :  an  olive-coloured 
outside  with  either  light  pea-green,  pale  pink,  or  light  lilac. 

If  properly  taken  care  of,  and  not  exposed  to  rain,  a  well- 
made  hood  of  new  silk  will  last  a  great  many  years. 

A  summer  hood  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner  as  one  for 
winter :  but,  of  course,  without  eider-down  jor  wadding. 

HINTS  ON  DRESS-MAKING.— Notwithstanding  the 
almost  incessant  changes  of  fashion,  there  are  certain  general 
rules  in  the  art  of  mantua-making  that  never  vary,  and  which 
it  may  be  well  to  point  out  for  the  instruction  of  those  who  are 
desirous  of  making  their  own  dresses.  Young  persons  who 
live  in  the  country  will  find  it  very  convenient  to  have  some 
knowledge  of  the  manner  of  accomplishing  this  business ;  and 
even  in  cities  there  are  many  who,  from  considerations  of  eco- 
nomy, might  be  glad  to  understand  as  much  of  the  art  as  would 
enable  them  to  cut  out  and  put  together  at  least  their  common 
dresses :  which  often,  when  done  by  a  mantua-maker,  cost  more 
for  the  making  than  the  price  of  the  material. 

In  purchasing  a  dress,  always  get  what  is  called  a  large 
pattern ;  that  is,  an  ample  allowance  of  the  stuff.  What  is  left 
will  no  doubt  come  into  use  for  altering,  mending,  renewing 
cuffs,  &c. ;  or  perhaps  it  may  be  wanted  for  a  new  body.  Also, 
if  a  dress  is  scantily  made,  it  will  never  look  well,  however 
expensive  the  material ;  particularly  if  the  skirt  is  too  narrow. 

In  buying  silk,  you  can  best  ascertain  its  thickness  by  hold- 
ing a  part  of  it  between  your  eyes  and  the  light.  If  very  stiff, 
it  is  highly  gummed,  and  therefore  cannot  wear  well,  as  the 
gum  will  cause  it  to  cut  or  split  at  the  pleats  or  gathers.  Soft 
thick  silks,  with  both  sides  alike,  cut  out  the  most  advanta- 
geously, and  wear  the  best.    Figured  or  flowered  silks  look 


HINTS    ON  DRESS-MAKING. 


407 


beautifully  for  a  short  time ;  but  the  sprigs  being  flossy,  and 
on  the  outside  only,  soon  begin  to  wear  rough,  and  the  spaces 
between  them  seem  to  contract  and  appear  shrivelled.  This 
is  the  case  with  most  silks  whose  figure  is  embossed  or  thrown 
up  on  the  outside.  What  are  called  watered  silks  look,  after 
a  while,  as  if  they  had  been  literally  watered  or  wetted  all 
over.  The  gros-de-nap  silks  that  are  now  imported,  are  so 
narrow,  thin,  and  stiff,  that  they  are  rarely  worth  buying.  A 
good  double  Florence  or  Marcelline  is  much  better  for  an  eco- 
nomical silk  dress.  Reps  silk  of  the  best  quality  is  soft,  glossy, 
and  wears  well :  so  does  gros  d'Afrique,  and  so  does  Turkish 
satin,  which  is  a  thick,  soft,  twilled  silk-.  English  satin  is 
very  superior  in  quality  to  the  French.  Satin  is  very  liable  to 
fray  on  the  surface,  and  if  not  of  the  best  sort,  it  wears  badly. 
For  a  very  lasting  dress,  nothing  is  more  durable  than  a  thick, 
double  width,  India  black  satin ;  and  it  is  well  worth  its  price. 
The  best  India  senshaws  wear  well,  and  are  not  apt  to  stain ; 
but  the  colours  are  seldom  handsome,  and  the  texture,  though 
thick,  is  rarely  fine.  They  are  yard-wide,  and  very  good  for 
lining  cloaks  and  pelisses.  In  buying  plaid  silks,  avoid  those 
that  have  any  white  in  them,  as  they  look  soiled  almost 
immediately.  A  plaid  dress  will  make  a  short  woman  appear 
much  shorter.  Ladies  who  are  no  longer  young  always  look 
best  in  dark-coloured  dresses,  whatever  may  be  the  material ; 
and  when  decidedly  old,  there  is  no  colour  so  proper  for  them 
as  black. 

Ladies  with  hair  inclining  to  auburn  should  avoid  buff-colour, 
fawn-colour,  and  all  shades  of  yellow,  pink,  or  scarlet.  To 
them,  white,  black,  slate-colour,  dark  brown,  purple,  lilac,  blue, 
and  pea-green  are  most  becoming.  A  brunette  ought  not  to 
wear  gray,  or  lilac,  or  grass-green.  To  all  persons  that  are 
very  pale,  every  shade  of  green  or  blue  is  unbecoming.  Young 


408 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


ladies  who  have  dark  hair  and  fair  complexions,  (a  rare  but 
beautiful  combination,)  may  wear  any  colour  whatever.  To 
very  young  girls  no  dress  is  so  becoming  as  white,  particularly 
in  summer.  In  buying  white  silks  or  ribbons,  choose  only 
such  as  are  called  a  dead  white.  Pearl-white  and  rose-white 
are  the  worst  possible  tints  to  go  next  the  skin,  whatever  may 
be  the  complexion  of  the  wearer.  There  are  many  shades  of 
yellow  that  at  night  resemble  a  bad  white ;  and  many  .of 
light  green  that,  except  in  day-time,  look  like  a  bad  blue. 
Purples  at  night  may  frequently  be  mistaken  for  a  dull  black. 
Lilac  is  a  very  bad  night-colour. 

Merinoes,  chalys,  and  mousselines  de  laine,  if  they  are  not 
of  the  very  best  quality,  soon  begin  to  look  rough  and  soiled, 
catching  the  dust  immediately.  In  selecting  painted  muslins, 
chintzes,  and  ginghams,  ask  for  a  little  slip  as  a  sample,  and 
try  how  it  will  wash  and  iron  before  you  purchase  the  dress. 
Give  it  a  fair  washing  in  a  little  warm-  soap-suds,  rinse  it  in 
cold  water,  and  then  dry  and  iron  it.  There  are  certain  shades 
of  light  blue,  pink,  yellow,  and  green,  that  bear  washing  very 
well,  but  change  immediately  when  ironed.  All  cotton  fabrics 
are  best  for  having  little  or  no  glazing  or  stiffening.  If  the 
figure  is  nearly  as  distinct  on  the  wrong  side  as  on  the  right, 
it  is  an  evidence  that  it  is  well  printed,  and  not  likely  to 
wash  out, 

In  buying  velvet,  see  that  the  wrong  side  is  of  silk,  as  well 
as  the  right,  and  not  of  cotton,  as  is  frequently  the  case.  If 
of  cotton,  it  will  wear  badly,  and  the  colour  will  rub  off. 
Velvet,  to  wear  well,  should  be  soft  as  well  as  thick,  and  the 
ground  well  covered  with  the  pile.  A  velvet  dress  is  very 
liable  to  crease  behind,  the  marks  of  the  creases  showing  very 
plainly.  To  prevent  this,  let  the  skirt  be  very  full,  and  the 
hind-breadths  wadded  and  lined.    As  a  velvet  dress  is  never 


HINTS    OiN'  DRESS-MAKING. 


409 


worn  in  warm  weather,  the  wadding  will  be  no  inconve- 
nience. 

The  best  lining  for  the  skirts  and  sleeves  of  dresses  is  either 
paper-muslin  or  the  stiff  coarse  book-muslin  that  comes  for  the 
purpose.  The  skirt  of  any  dress  that  is  not  to  be  washed,  will 
last  much  longer,  and  keep  clean  better,  if  lined  throughout. 
In  case  it  should  require  turning,  a  merino  pelisse  or  cloak 
should  alwa)rs  have  a  thin  lining  interposed  between  the  wad- 
ding and  the  outside ;  otherwise,  when  taken  apart  to  be  turned, 
it  will  be  found  impossible,  by  any  process,  to  get  the  shreds 
of  cotton  entirely  off.  Even  washing  the  merino  will  not 
remove  them.  In  basting  wadding  to  a  lining,  use  always 
strong  sewing  silk;  as  cotton  thread  (when  the  stitches  are 
very  long)  is  apt  to  break  after  being  worn  a  while,  and  then 
the  wadding  gets  loose.  Take  very  long  needlefuls;  and 
when  you  begin  with  a  new  one,  tie  its  end  firmly  in  a  knot  to 
that  of  the  last.  Let  the  basting  stitches  go  in  waves  up  and 
down,  catching  the  lining  slightly,  but  securing  at  equal  dis- 
tances every  part  of  the  wadding.  If  you  split  the  wadding, 
lay  the  split  side  next  to  the  lining,  the  glazed  side  uppermost. 

Ladies  would  do  well  to  make  common  cause  in  protesting 
against  the  practice  that  prevails  in  many  of  the  stores,  (we 
should  be  sorry  to  find  it  universal,)  of  using  printed  paper  for 
wrapping  up  articles  that  are  purchased  there,  even  when  those 
articles  are  white,  light-coloured,  and  cannot  be  washed.  The 
liability  of  printing  ink  to  rub  off  is  proved  whenever  we  take 
a  newspaper  into  our  hands ;  and  therefore  it  is  of  all  things 
the  most  unfit  for  enclosing  silks,  laces,  ribbons,  &c.  Indeed, 
there  is  nothing  whatever  that  may  not  be  more  or  less  soiled 
by  putting  it  up  in  newspaper.  A  constant  and  liberal  supply 
of  the  soft  paper  made  expressly  for  wrapping,  (and  which  can 
be  purchased  by  the  quantity  at  a  very  trifling  cost,)  ought  to 

35 


410 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


be  considered  by  all  stoie-keepers  as  a  part  of  their  necessary 
expenditure ;  and  to  have  every  article  put  up  in  a  neat  and 
proper  manner,  and  so  that  it  can  receive  no  injury  on  its  way 
home,  is  a  duty  they  owe  to  their  customers.  If  every  lady 
would  make  a  -point  of  remonstrating,  when  she  sees  an  article 
that  she  has  purchased  wrapped  up  in  a  piece  of  printed  paper, 
we  think  this  grievance  would  soon  cease. 

THE  BODY  OF  A  DRESS. — In  commencing  a  dress  the 
first  thing  is  to  fit  and  cut  out  the  body-lining,  which  should 
always  be  made  of  good  linen  ;  as  linen  that  is  thin  and  coarse, 
will  stretch  out  of  shape  when  the  outside  is  putting  on,  and 
shrink  very  much  on  being  washed.  For  a  white  dress,  or  any 
one  that  is  to  be  washed,  the  lining  must  be  of  linen  that  is 
perfectly  white;  otherwise  the  brownish  tint,  however  pale, 
will  show  through.  For  a  dark  silk  or  merino  dress,  the  lining 
may  be  of  fine  brown  hoUand.  A  yard  of  linen  will  make  a 
body-lining  for  a  person  of  moderate  size,  and  it  must  be  quite 
smooth  when  you  cut  it;  not  in  the  least  rumpled  or  creased. 
The  person  to  be  fitted,  should  wear  at  the  time  one  of  her 
best  setting  dresses.  Over  the  fore-body  of  this,  let  the  linen 
be  pinned,  placing  it  bias,  and  putting  several  pins  at  the  shoul- 
ders, sides,  and  waist.  Fold  over  at  the  bottom  of  the  waist, 
two  very  large  pleats  slanting  upward,  and  diminishing  gradu- 
ally to  a  point  as  they  ascend  to  the  bosom.  If  these  pleats 
are  small  and  narrow^  the  dress  will  inevitably  be  too  tight 
across  the  front;  compressing  the  bosom  painfully,  and  making 
it  look  flat  and  contracted.  This  is  a  very  common  fault  with 
dress-makers,  who  depend  entirely  on  giving  an  artificial  fulness 
to  the  bosom,  by  means  of  wadding.  The  fore-body  leaves 
off  at  the  shoulder-seams,  and  after  it  is  fitted,  the  back  should 
be  done.    The  lining  of  the  back  must  be  cut  straight-way  of 


HINTS    ON    DRESS  MAKING. 


41 


the  linen,  (not  bias,)  and  it  must  be  pinned  very  smoothly  on 
the  back  of  the  dress  worn  at  the  time  by  the  person  for  whom  it 
is  intended;  allowing  sufficient  everywhere  for  turning,  in,  and 
for  outlet  if  the  dress  should  afterwards  be  found  too  tight.  The 
lining  must  be  allowed  longer  in  the  waist  than  the  model  dress, 
as  it  takes  up  greatly  in  sewing  on  the  skirt.  For  a  person  of 
hollow  back  and  taper  form,  the  side-seams  should  have  a  con- 
siderable slope  inwards  from  the  arm-hole,  to  the  lower  extre- 
mity of  the  waist ;  otherwise,  the  dress  will  not  set  well  in  to 
the  lower  part  of  the  back,  even  when  made  very  tight.  Where 
the  waist  is  thick,  the  slope  inwards  should  be  less;  arid  some 
figures  require  none  at  all.  If  the  back  of  the  person  is  rather 
round,  or  the  shoulders  very  prominent,  (as  they  frequently 
become,  from  habitually  compressing  the  waist  to  excessive 
tightness,)  the  body  should  be  cut  considerably  longer  behind, 
so  as  to  allow  sufficient  space  for  the  projection  of  the  shoulders. 
When  the  back  is  flat  and  straight,  the  body  need  be  no  longer 
[  behind  than  at  the  sides.  Be  very  careful  not  to  cut  the  body- 
lining  too  short  either  behind  or  before ;  for  to  all  figures,  a 
short  waist  is  unbecoming.  In  cutting  out  the  sleeve-holes, 
notch  them  in  front,  and  allow  them  sufficiently  easy ;  particu- 
larly, just  under  the  arms.  Give  the  slioulders  a  considerable 
slope  inwards  towards  the  neck ;  otherwise  the  dress  will  set 
too  loose  about  the  upper  part.  Next,  with  a  piece  of  tape, 
measure  the  length  of  the  skirt  from  the  waist  behind,  down 
to  the  heels,  allowing  sufficient  for  the  hem  or  facing. 

After  the  lining  has  been  fitted  and  cut  out  over  the  model- 
dress,  take  it  off  and  baste  it  together;  also  basting  down  the 
large  pleats.  Then  let  it  be  tried  on,  and  fitted  a  second  time 
upon  the  corset  only.  This  is  the  time  to  remedy  any  faults 
in  the  cutting  out  or  basting  together.  If  it  is  found  too  loose 
about  the  upper  part  of  the  back,  slope  it  in  a  little  more 


413 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


towards  the  neck.  If  the  top  of  the  front  is  too  loose,  slope 
that  also  a  little  more  in  to  the  neck.  If  too  tight,  let  it  out 
sufficiently,  by  opening  the  shoulder-seam.  Should  the  lower 
part  of  the  back  be  too  loose,  take  it  in  a  little  at  the  side-seam 
under  the  arms.  If  the  waist  is  too  tight,  let  it  out  at  the  side- 
seam  of  the  fore-body ;  or  il;  may  be  necessary  to  let  out  both 
the  back  and  the  fore-body.  A  dress,  to  fit  well,  should  have 
no  wrinkle  whatever  under  the  arms,  or  indeed  in  any  place 
where  it  ought  to  be  perfectly  smooth.  A  body  will  frequently 
set  badly,  not  because  it  is  too  loose,  but  from  the  sleeve-hole 
being  so  small  that  the  dress  cannot  be  got  on  sufficiently ; 
causing  it  to  hang  otF  and  wrinkle  down.  When  this  is  the 
fault,  the  remedy,  of  course,  is  to  enlarge  the  sleeve-hole. 
When  sleeve-holes  are  found  too  tight,  cut  them  away  first  in 
front  and  under  the  arms,  and  then  round  them  off  nicely  at  the 
back.  If  left  too  tight  when  the  lining  is  cut  out,  they  will 
not  be  any  looser  when  the  dress  is  finished ;  as  the  ridge  made 
by  the  seam  in  putting  in  the  sleeve,  always  fills  up  whatever 
space  is  allowed  for  the  sewing.  When  the  fitting  of  the  lining 
is  finished,  do  not,  after  stitching  them  down,  trim  off  the  inside 
folds  of  the  large  pleats,  but  allow  them  to  remain  uncut :  in 
case  it  should,  at  any  time,  be  found  necessary  to  letlhem  out 
for  the  purpose  of  enlarging  the  body.  They  can  be  made  to 
lie  perfectly  flat,  by  felling  down  the  folded  edge  on  the  inside. 

In  making  the  fore-body  of  a  dress,  the  silk  or  other  material 
(hat  constitutes  the  outside,  should  always  be  cvX  precisely  bias ; 
otherwise,  neither  the  pleats  or  gathers,  nor  indeed  any  part  ofj 
the  front  can  set  well.  To  do  this,  fold  one  comer  quite  sharp, 
and  make  the  middle  of  the  fold  lie  exactly  even.  If  the  silk 
is  not  wide  enough  for  ■&  perfect  bias,  join  it  at  the  selvage  to 
another  selvage  piece  running  just  the  same  way.  An  imper- 
fect bias  causes  the  pleats  to  twist  or  warp,  and  the  whole  to 


HINTS    ON    DRESS -MAKING.  418 

go  wrong  and  unevenly.  In  cutting  the  outside  of  the  fore- 
body,  see  that  there  is  amply  sufficient,  both  in  length  and 
breadth,  for  all  the  pleats  or  gathers;  allowing  it  wider  con- 
siderably at  the  top  than  at  the  bottom.  If  the  dress  is  of  a 
material  that  is  to  be  washed,  the  upper  part  of  the  fulness 
should  be  gathered ;  as  loose  bias  pleats  cannot  be  ironed  to 
look  well,  or  even  tolerably ;  the  lower  part  of  a  gathered  front  ' 
may  be  stitched  closely  down.  Wherever  there  are  gathers 
on  a  dress,  make  them  small,  and  stroke  them  as  neatly  as  ia 
piaking  up  linen.  The  pleats  should  be  laid  smooth  and  even, 
so  that  no  part  of  them  may  twist  or  stand  off  even  in  the  smallest 
degree.  Baste  or  run  them  down  to  the  lining,  concealing  the 
stitches  of  each  pleat  under  the  pleat  that  falls  over  it,  If  there 
is  to  be  wadding  at  the  bosom,  you  may  insert  it  between  the 
lining  and  the  outside,  before  you  cord  the  neck.  But  the  best 
way  is  to  put  it  on  after  the  body  is  finished.  To  do  this,  cut 
out  two  circular  pieces  of  wadding,  of  sufficient  size;  lay  on 
each  of  them  another  round  piece  about  an  inch  smaller  in 
circumference ;  upon  that  put  a  third,  fourth,  fifth,  and  sixth 
round  piece,  each  diminishing  in  size,  till  the  last  is  no  larger 
than  a  cent.  Baste  each  of  these  piles  of  wadding  upon  a 
circular  piece  of  white  glazed  muslin ;  notching  the  edges  of 
':he  muslin,  and  turning  them  in.  Then  sew  them  to  the  lining 
of  the  body,  so  as  to  have  the  wadded  pieces  next  the  corset, 
and  not  between  the  lining  and  the  outside. 

In  stitching  down  the  lower  part  of  the  pleats,  (where  they 
diminish  in  width  towards  the  waist,)  make  a  second  row  of 
'stitching  on  the  extreme  edge  of  each.  A  fore-body  to  set  oflT 
the  figure,  should  fan  very  much ;  the  pleats  or  gathers  spread- 
ing full  above,  so  as  to  give  breadth  to  the  chest,  and  narrowing 
into  a  very  small  compass  at  the  bottom  of  the  waist,  whew 
they  meet  in  the  centre.  The  space  on  each  side  of  the  pleats 
36* 


414 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


should  set  perfectly  smooth  to  the  waist,  and  be  quite  free  from 
wrinkles. 

The  outside  of  the  back  must  be  cut  straightway  of  the  stuff 
like  the  lining.  For  a  full  back,  (they  are  sometimes  in 
fashion,)  the  lining  must  be  tight;  but  the  outside  must  be  cut 
large  enough  to  allow  of  gathers  at  the  lower  part  and  shoul- 
ders. A  full  back  gathered  into  the  middle  of  the  neck  rarely 
sets  well ;  the  gathers  should  fan  from  the  shoulders  down  to 
the  waist.  Great  care  must  be  taken  in  making  a  full  back, 
not  to  let  it  puff  out  in  the  middle ;  a  most  disfiguring  fault, 
and  one  to  which  full-backed  dresses  are  very  liable.  The 
gathers  should  be  small  and  nicely  stroked.  If  the  back  is 
gathered,  the  sleeves  and  skirt  should  be  gathered  also. 

It  is  now  usual  to  have  no  seams  in  the  backs  of  dresses, 
except  under  the  arms ;  but  some  persons  still  prefer  having 
the  form  or  shape  designated  by  two  narrow  bias  folds,  begin- 
ning just  below  the  middle  of  the  back  part  of  the  sleeve-hole, 
and  descending  to  the  waist,  where  at  their  termination,  the 
space  between  diminishes  to  about  half  a  finger  in  width. 
These  narrow  bias  folds  are  finished  with  a  cording.  To  put 
them  on,  baste  them  down  on  the  back  of  the  dress  after  it  has 
been  lined,  giving  them  a  slight  curve,  and  then  sew  them  on 
with  the  lining  next  to  you ;  keeping  the  needle  and  thread  on 
the  lining  side,  and  catching  the  under  part  of  the  bias  fold  as 
you  take  the  stitches  through. 

A  cording  must  be  let  in  at  the  shoulder  where  the  back  is 
joined  to  the  fore-body. 

In  putting  whalebones  into  the  body  of  a  dress,  use  none  that 
are  not  perfectly  straight  and  even;  if  in  the  least  crooked, 
they  will  cause  a  drawing  or  puckering  of  the  outside.  It  is 
usual  to  have  a  whalebone  up  the  middle  of  the  front;  one,  or 
perhaps  two,  at  each  side  of  the  fore-body,  running  in  the  same 


HINTS    ON  DRESS-MAKING. 


415 


direction  as  the  large  pleats  in  the  lining,  and  extending  up  as 
far  as  the  bosom,  but  not  over  it.  Also  a  whalebone  at  each 
of  the  side-seams  under  the  arms,  and  up  the  outer  edges  of 
the  back,  where  the  hooks  and  eyes  are.  It  is  not  a  good  way 
to  run  in  the  whalebones  between  the  lining  and  the  outside  of  the 
dress,  as  their  ends  very  soon  wear  through  the  outside.  Make 
a  case  for  each  whalebone,  by  sewing  a  piece  of  strong  twilled 
tape  upon  the  body-lining.  Then  slip  in  the  whalebone,  and 
secure  it  well  at  the  ends.  Finish  the  lower  part  of  the  body, 
with  a  cording  felled  down  on  the  inside ;  and  do  the  neck  in 
the  same  manner.  It  must  also  be  corded  and  faced  up  both 
sides  of  the  back.  Merino  and  mousseline  de  laine  dresses 
must  be  corded  with  thick  silk,  as  the  worsted  stuff  is  too 
clumsy,  and  besides  will  soon  fray  off.  Velvet  and  satin  also, 
,must  have  silk  cording.  If  you  cannot  match  the  dress  exactly 
with  the  proper  shade  of  silk  for  cording,  get  the  cording-silk 
a  little  darker  rather  than  lighter. 

The  covering  for  cord  should  be  cut  into  long  slips,  all  of 
them  exactly  bias;  otherwise,  it  will  pucker  and  not  set 
smoothly  when  sewed  on.  Where  it  is  necessary  to  join  the 
covering,  fold  in  the  end,  and  lay  the  piece  neatly  over  the  end 
of  the  piece  that  you  have  last  put  on  the  cord.  Never  use 
black  cotton  cord,  except  for  black  silk  dresses.  If  you  put  it 
in  a  mourning  chintz,  as  soon  as  it  is  washed  the  black  cotton 
dye  will  come  through  the  covering  of  the  cord,  and  run  in 
streaks  about  that  part  of  the  dress,  so  as  to  spoil  it  irrecover- 
ably. For  a  corded  facing,  cut  the  covering  considerably 
broader,  and  sew  in  the  cord  nearer  to  one  edge  than  to  the 
other,  felling  down  the  broad  part  upon  the  inside.  When  you 
sew  on  cording,  hold  the  dress  next  to  you,  and  take  the  stitches 
very  short,  and  close,  and  quite  through.  Silk  that  is  bought 
for  cording,  must  be  very  stout ;  otherwise,  it  will  soon  wear 


116 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


off,  the  cording  being  generally  the  first  thing  about  the  dress 
that  requires  renewing.  After  cutting  out  a  dress,  take  care 
of  all  the  shapings  or  scraps,  however  small,  as  they  may 
afterwards  come  into  use  for  cording  and  other  purposes. 

Where  the  body  of  a  dress  is  open  at  the  back,  each  side 
should  have  a  facing  at  least  an  inch  deep,  felled  down  upon 
the  lining. 

In  plaid  silk  or  gingham,  take  care  that  all  the  checkers  are 
made  to  match  exactly,  otherwise  the  elfect  will  be  very  bad. 
Wherever  there  is  a  join,  it  is  better  to  cut  off  a  portion  from 
one  piece  or  the  other,  than  to  allow  the  checks  to  come  wrong. 
A  perpendicular  stripe  of  the  checker  should  always  go  directly 
up  the  middle  of  the  back,  and  the  cross  stripes  should  be  made 
to  match  precisely.  The  same  accuracy  is  to  be  observed  in 
making  a  dress  of  a  striped  material. 

In  sewing  on  hooks  and  eyes,  use  very  strong  silk,  and  put 
the  hooks  on  the  right  side  and  the  eyes  on  the  left.  For  the 
sleeves,  they  should  be  of  the  very  smallest  size.  If,  instead 
of  eyes,  you  work  little  loops  in  button-hole  stitch,  make  them 
very  strong,  or  they  will  soon  wear  out  and  break.  The  hooks 
must  be  sewed  on  the  inside  or  lining ;  the  eyes,  or  loops,  on 
the  outside. 


THE  SLEEVES  OF  A  DRESS.— After  you  have  fitted 
the  body-lining,  take  the  measure  for  the  sleeves  by  means  of 
a  piece  of  tape  from  the  arm-pit  to  the  wrist,  allowing  a  little 
extra  length  as  it  will  take  up  in  sewing.  If  the  sleeve  is  too 
short  on  the  inside  of  the  arm,  it  will  give  a  very  awkward 
appearance  to  the  wrist,  exposing  it  bare  whenever  the  arm  is 
in  the  least  extended,  besides  feeling  most  uncomfortably. 
We  have  seen  sleeves  in  which  this  defect  (shortness  of  the 
under  side)  was  so  great,  that  after  the  dress  was  on  it  was 


HINTS    ON  DRESS-MAKING. 


417 


impossible  to  raise  the  hand  higher  than  the  waist,  the  arms 
appearing  as  if  skewered  down  to  the  sides.  The  remedy, 
when  the  sleeve  is  too  short,  is  to  put  an  addition  to  the  cuff 
at  the  wrist ;  or  else  to  take  out  the  sleeve  at  the  shoulder,  rip 
it  down  the  eeam  for  about  half  a  yard,  and  then  cut  a  piece 
from  each  side,  which  (though  making  the  upper  part  of  the 
sleeve  narrower)  will  add  something  to  its  length  under  the 
arm,  when  it  is  set  in  again.  If  the  design  of  the  sleeve  will 
permit,  it  is  perhaps  best  to  increase  its  length  by  adding  a 
cuff  to  the  bottom,  concealing  the  join  under  a  band. 

If  you  wish  the  sleeve  to  set  off  very  much  from  the  elbow,  cut 
it  very  long  on  the  top  of  the  shoulder,  and  give  it  a  great  curve 
along  the  inside  of  the  arm.  On  the  contrary,  if  you  desire 
that  it  should  hang  straight,  give  the  inside  but  very  little  slope. 

In  cutting  out  sleeves,  fold,  over  the  material  into  an  exact 
bias ;  and  if  not  wide  enough  at  the  top,  cut  a  piece  to  join  on, 
making  both  selvages  come  together.  This  seam  or  join  had 
best  go  at  the  back  of  the  sleeve.  When  the  material  is  very 
narrow,  it  is  necessary  to  join  the  upper  part  of  the  sleeves 
both  at  the  back  and  front.  That  side  of  a  bias  sleeve  where 
the  threads  run  straight-way,  must  be  put  front,  or  next  the 
fore-body ;  the  cross-way  side  must  go  next  the  back :  this  is 
very  important  to  the  set  of  the  sleeve.  The  top  or  shoulder 
part  must  be  rounded  at  the  back,  and  hollowed  a  little  at  the 
front,  where  it  is  sewed  into  the  sleeve-hole.  The  linings 
should  be  cut  out  with  the  sleeves,  and  exactly  of  the  same 
size  and  form.  Coloured  linings  (unless  of  silk)  are  apt  to 
lub  off  on  the  arm.  White  paper  muslin,  as  it  is  called,  is  the 
best  for  sleeve-linings  of  a  dress  that  is  not  to  be  washed.  For 
a  dress  that  may  be  washed,  it  is  better  that  the  linings  should 
be  separate  from  the  sleeves,  making  them  of  cheap  white 
cambric  muslin.    Gather  these  extra  linings  at  the  top  into  a 


418 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


band,  and  at  the  bottom  into  a  wrist-band  :  they  must  not  be 
so  long  as  to  appear  at  the  slit  of  the  lower  part  of  the  outer 
sleeve.  Each  of  these  sleeve-linings  should  have  four  tape 
strings  sewed  at  equal  distances  to  the  binding  at  the  top,  to 
be  tied  to  corresponding  strings  sewed  inside  of  the  arm-hole 
of  the  dress.  Separate  sleeve-linings  are  very  convenient  for 
any  description  of  dresses,  as  they  can  be  worn  or  not,  accord- 
ing to  the  temperature  of  the  weather,  and  can  also  be  washed 
when  soiled.  If  a  permanent  lining  is  put  into  any  part  of  a 
sleeve  that  is  to  be  washed,  it  must  on  no  account  be  of  a 
coloured  material,  as,  in  washing,  the  colour  will  run  through 
to  the  outside. 

After  the  sleeves  of  a  dress  are  cut  out,  the  pleats,  gathers, 
bands,  straps,  &c.,  must  all  be  made  and  put  on  before  the 
seams  are  sewed  up ;  otherwise  it  will  be  impossible  to  get 
any  of  those  decorations  even ;  besides  that  it  is  much  easier 
to  do  them  when  the  sleeve  is  spread  out  flat,  than  after  its 
sides  are  closed  up.  Where  the  slit  or  opening  comes  at  the 
wrist,  put  on  each  side  a  broad  facing,  felled  down  upon  the 
lining,  no  part  of  which  ought  by  any  chance  to  be  apparent 
when  the  dress  is  on.  Make  the  pleats  or  gathers  very  even 
and  regular,  and  baste  or  run  them  down  under  the  bands.  If 
there  are  no  bands,  close-stitch  the  pleats  as  neatly  as  possi- 
ble. If  there  are  bias  folds  as  sleeve-trimmings,  let  the  strips 
of  which  they  are  made  be  cut  an  exact  bias ;  and  in  sewing 
them  on  to  the  cord  by  which  they  are  finished,  hold  the  folded 
piece  rather  loose  or  easy,  and  see  that  you  do  not  get  it  twisted 
or  warped  in  the  slightest  degree,  otherwise  it  will  look  very 
badly.  When  all  the  rest  of  the  sleeve  is  finished,  baste  a 
cording  all  along  one  side,  and  then  hold  the  edge  of  the  other  ■ 
sid*e  even  with  it,  and  run  them  both  together  with  close  short 
stitches,  going  as  near  the  cord  as  possible.    In  setting  in 


HINTS    ON  DRESS-MAKING 


419 


the  sleeves,  baste  a  cord  all  round  the  arm-hole,  beginning  and 
finishing  at  the  side-seam  under  the  arm ;  then  close-stitch  the 
sleeve  all  round,  leaving  the  cord  to  appear  as  a  finish  on  the 
outside.  If  you  afterwards  find  the  sleeve  too  long  on  the 
inside  of  the  arm,  open  a  few  inches  of  the  seam  about  the 
bend  of  the  elbow,  remove  a  piece  of  the  cording,  and  join  it 
again  neatly  over  a  few  little  pleats  or  gathers.  This  will  draw 
up  and  shorten  the  sleeve  without  being  noticed.  Allow  tne 
sleeves  full  large  at  the  wrists ;  for  if  too  tight,  they  will  not 
only  feel  uncomfortably,  but  cause  the  hands  to  swell  and 
look  red. 

You  may  occasionally  wear  white  sleeves  with  a  silk  dress, 
by  having  the  silk  sleeves  so  made  as  to  be  taken  out  and 
replaced  at  pleasure.  To  do  this,  have  the  arm-hole  finished 
with  a  cord  and  facing,  felled  down  on  the  lining ;  and  the  top 
of  the  sleeve  finished  in  the  same  manner  with  another  cord 
and  facing.  In  putting  in  the  sleeve,  do  not  back-stitch  it,  but 
secure  it  only  with  close  running  in  small  stitches,  so  that  it 
can  be  easily  taken  out  for  the  purpose  of  putting  in  a  white 
sleeve  finished  at  the  top  in  the  same  manner.  Another  way 
is,  to  have  at  the  shoulder  a  sort  of  epaulet  or  shdulder-cuff 
of  the  silk,  sewed  in  permanently  to  the  arm-hole,  and  orna- 
mented with  pleats,  bands,  folds,  or  whatever  you  choose. 
Under  this  shoulder-cuff  you  can  put  in  either  the  long  silk 
sleeve,  made  somewhat  narrower  than  usual  at  the  top,  or  a 
white  sleeve  also  narrowed  at  the  top.  When  thin  white 
sleeves  are  worn,  they  should  have  a  short  under  sleeve,  either 
of  fine  cambric  muslin  or  of  white  silk.  White  sleeves  with 
dark  dresses  are  almost  universally  becoming,  and  in  summer 
are  very  cool,  and  in  no  danger  of  staining  with  the  heat,  as  Is 
the  case  with  silk  sleeves.  They  should  always,  however, 
be  made  of  a  thin  material. 


420 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


There  should  be  gathers  only,  and  no  pleating  about  the 
sleeves  of  any  muslin,  chintz,  or  gingham  dress;  as,  when 
washed  and  ironed,  pleats  always  get  out  c,f  shape  at  the  folded 
edge,  and  look  badly.  If  any  part  of  a  dress  is  too  tight  before 
it  is  washed,  it  will  be  still  tighter  afterwards,  as  being  in 
water  never  fails  to  shrink  it.  It  is  well  to  shrink  the  cotton 
cord  by  scalding  it  before  it  is  used. 

All  coloured  dresses,  unless  the  ground  is  white,  should  be 
sewed  with  silk,  and  not  with  cotton. 

Belts  and  their  linings  must  be  made  cross-way  of  the  stuff. 
If  intended  to  wash,  it  is  best  not  to  cord  them  at  the  edges, 
but  to  fell  down  the  outside  over  the  lining.  Between  the 
outside  and  the  lining  there  should  be  a  very  stout  stiffening 
of  thick  white  buckram.  Cut  all  three  straight  by  a  thread, 
and  then  baste  them  together  till  after  the  belt  is  finished. 
Line  the  flap  or  end  that  hooks  over,  with  a  piece  of  the  same 
material  as  the  outside.  If  you  cannot  find  a  belt-ribbon 
exactly  the  colour  of  your  dress,  get  one  that  is  rather  of  a 
darker  than  a  lighter  shade. 


THE  SKIRT  OF  A  DRESS.— The  skirt  of  a  dress  will 
not  look  well  unless  it  is  very  full  and  wide ;  it  should  not  be 
long  enough  to  touch  the  ground,  nor  so  short  as  to  show  the 
shoe-binding.  For  a  woman  of^moderate  size,  a  yard  and  a 
quarter  in  length  will  allow  something  to  turn  up  for  a  hem  ; 
a  tall  woman  may  require  a  yard  and  a  quarter  and  a  half-quarter 
for  a  skirt  with  a  hem.  A  dress  made  of  narrow  silk,  that 
measures  but  a  half  yard  in  width,  will  require  eight  breadths 
in  the  skirt ;  but  if  the  material  is  less  than  half  a  yard  wide, 
there  should  be  nine  breadths.  A  mousseline  de  laine,  a  silk, 
or  a  satin,  of  full  three-quarters  wide,  will  take  six  breadths;! 
if  but  half  a  yard  and  half  a  quarter  in  width,  there  must  be 


HINTS   ON  DRESS-MAKING. 


421 


seven.  For  a  three-quarter  chaly,  six ;  for  a  merino  skirt  there 
should  be  three  breadths ;  for  a  double-width  bombazine,  four. 
A  common  calico  or  Scotch  gingham  should  have  six  breadths ; 
a  yard-wide  painted  muslin,  five ;  and  a  French  chintz  and  a 
■French  gingham,  five.  Of  what  is  called  six-quarter  white 
muslin,  there  must  be  at  least  three  breadths ;  of  what  is  called 
yard  and  a  quarter  muslin,  there  should  be  four  to  make  a  skirt 
sufficiently  full. 

A  silk,  a  chaly,  or  a  bombazine  will  wear  much  better,  and 
keep  clean  longer,  if  the  skirt  is  lined  all  through ;  and  when 
turned  it  will  look  nearly  as  well  as  new.  The  lining  should 
be  very  thin,  and  may  be  of  coarse  book  muslin  or  of  paper 
muslin.  After  the  breadths  of  the  outside  are  all  run  up,  mea- 
sure those  of  the  lining  so  as  to  fit  exactly,  and  run  them  up 
also.  Put  the  lining  inside,  whip  the  two  raw  edges  together 
at  the  top,  and  baste  the  lining  and  outside  together  along  the 
bottom.  For  the  slit  behind,  at  the  top  of  the  skirt,  hem  down 
the  outside  upon  the  lining,  securing  it  well  at  the  termination, 
and  taking  care  to  turn  in  entirely  the  white  selvage  edge.  Be 
also  very  particular,  in  running  up  the  breadths  or  joining  the 
sleeves,  to  take  sufficient  hold,  so  as  to  prevent  even  a  thread 
of  the  selvage  edge  from  appearing  on  the  outside  of  the  dress, 
as  is  frequently  the  case  when  seams  are  put  together  carelessly. 
It  is  well  to  notch  with  your  scissors  the  selvage  all  along ; 
otherwise  the  tightness  of  its  extreme  edge  will  draw  up  the 
breadths,  and  cause  them  to  pucker  at  the  seams.  In  sewing 
together  the  pieces  for  a  flounce  or  a  frill  to  a  silk  dress,  cut 
off  the  selvage  entirely,  and  whip  over  the  seams ;  for  if  the 
white  edge  is  left  on,  it  will  show  at  every  join. 

If  the  skirt  is  pleated  at  the  top,  turn  down  an  inch  or  two 
all  along,  and  fix  all  the  pleats  exactly  even ;  securing  them 
for  the  present  with  pins,  an-d  afterwards  basting  them.  Leave 
36 


422 


"THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


a  plain  space  directly  in  the  front  of  the  fore-breadth.  Take 
care  not  to  have  a  seam  on  the  top  of  any  of  the  pleats,  but  fold 
all  the  seams  underneath.    The  middle  of  the  fore-breadth 
must  come  exactly  to  the  middle  of  the  fore-body ;  and  the 
central  gathers  of  the  back-breadth  must  go  precisely  to  the 
centre  of  the  back-body.    As  these  gathers  are  to  be  caught 
up,  and  not  whipped  with  a  drawing  thread,  they  cannot  be  I 
made  till  after  the  body  is  sewed  fast  to  the  skirt;  but  enough  ^ 
must  be  left  to  make  them  very  full.  j' 
Having  basted  the  body  to  the  skirt,  stitch  or  sew  them  ^ 
along  closely  with  a  strong  silk  thread.    In  doing  so,  stretch  : 
the  body  very  tightly,  and  hold  the  skirt  rather  easy.    Then  I 
put  in  the  gathers  at  the  back  of  the  skirt,  catching  them  to  the 
body  as  you  go  along,  and  securing  each  in  its  place  with  a 
second  stitch  taken  over  the  first.    When  they  are  all  in,  take 
a  large  needle  and  a  strong  thread  with  a  large  knot  on  its  end, 
and  run  it  through  the  whole  of  the  gathers  as  they  stand  in  a 
row  on  the  inside,  and  draw  the  thread  tightly.    This  will 
keep  them  compact,  and  make  them  set  out  well.    If  the  skirtjj 
is  not  lined  all  through,  put  a  stiffener  into  the  upper  part  of  | 
the  two  back-breadths,  and  sew  it  in  with  the  gathers  when}; 
you  are  making  them,  whipping  it  first  to  the  raw  edge  of  theji 
outside.    This  stiffener  may  be  of  a  double  piece  of  glazedi 
white  muslin,  about  a  quarter  and  half-quarter  in  length  when| 
doubled,  and  in  width  the  same  as  that  of  the  two  back-breadths,  | 
unless  they  are  extremely  wide.    Do  not  double  it  exactly  in| 
half,  but  leave  one  of  the  lower  edges  a  little  longer  than  the 
other.    Scollop  it  all  round  with  your  scissors.    A  mousseline 
de  laine,  a  painted  muslin,  or  any  light-coloured  or  white  dress, 
should  not  have  a  stiffener  sewed  in  with  the  gathers,  as  its 
form  will  show  through.    To  wear  with  these  dresses,  white 
stiffeners  maybe  sewed  in  with  the  gathers  of  white  petticoats. 


HINTS    ON  DRESS-MAKING. 


423 


Before  the  sleeves  are  set  in  permanently,,  and  the  body 
Bewed  fast  to  the  skirt,  it  is  well,  after  all  is  basted,  to  try  on 
the  dress.  The  exact  length  proper  for  the  skirt  may  then  be 
ascertained,  and  the  hem  turned  up  with  pins.  A  silk  skirt 
will  hang  much  better  for  having  an  even  strip  of  wadding  laid 
in  the  hem  at  the  bottom,  provided  there  is  a  lining  inside ; 
otherwise,  when  the  lower  edge  of  the  hem  begins  to  wear  oflf, 
the  wadding  will  poke  through.  The  three  back-breadths  of 
a  velvet  skirt  should  be  lined  and  wadded  all  through,  which 
will  prevent  the  velvet  from  creasing  and  wearing  in  streaks. 
When  the  edge  of  a  silk  hem  is  worn  off,  bind  it  with  stout 
ribbon  of  the  same  colour :  or  with  a  new  piece  of  the  silk,  cut 
bias.  If  the  skirt  is  found  to  be  too  long,  rip  the  hem  and  turn 
it  up  broader ;  or  a  tuck  laid  all  along  the  lining  near  the  bot- 
tom of  the  skirt,  will  shorten  it.  The  hem  should  be  merely 
run,  that  the  thread  may  easily  be  drawn  out,  if  necessary. 

Some  persons  who  do  not  wish  to  have  their  skirts  lined  all 
through,  line  only  the  two  back-breadths,  that  they  may  set  out 
well.  Of  course,  no  skirt  should  be  lined  if  it  is  of  a  material 
that  is  to  be  washed. 

If,  instead  of  pleating  the  skirt,  you  gather  it  at  the  waist, 
you  may  whip  the  gathers  and  draw  them  with  a  thread,  except 
just  behind ;  and  there  you  must  make  catch-gathers,  as  in  a 
pleated  skirt.  It  is  sometimes  customary  to  gage  a  gathered 
skirt ;  that  is,  to  make  a  second  row  of  gathers  about  an  inch 
below  the  first,  securing  them  in  their  place  by  running  them 
on  to  a  tape  basted  beneath  on  the  inside.  If  the  sleeves  are 
gathered  below  the  shoulder  or  above  the  wrist,  sew  down  the 
gathers  also  upon  tape  basted  beneath.  This  will  strengthen 
them,  and  keep  that  part  of  the  sleeve  in  shape. 

To  wear  with  a  clear  muslin,  or  any  other  transparent  mate- 
rial, it  is  necessary  to  have  an  under-dress  made  at  the  same 


424 


THE   HOUSE  BOOK. 


time,  and  to  fit  exactly  beneath  the  upper  dress.  The  sleeves 
should  be  short,  and  the  body  perfectly  plain.  Fine  white  linen 
or  lawn  under-dresses,  have  now  superseded  those  of  white  | 
silk,  and  being  much  whiter  are  far  more  becoming.  We  | 
have  seen  under-dresses  of  a  skirt  only,  sewed  at  the  waist  to  1 
the  inside  of  the  thin  upper-diess,  before  it  was  put  on.  This  I 
is  sufficient  with  the  lining  of  the  body  and  the  short  sleeve  f 
lining.  To  very  young  girls,  no  dress  is  more  becoming  than  ^ 
a  clear  muslin.   In  buying  one,  see  that  it  has  not  a  blueish  cast,  f 

Ladies  who  have  sense  and  courage  to  resist  the  pernicious 
but  almost  universal  custom  of  wearing  long  corsets  with  ' 
busks  and  whalebones,  may  make  their  figures  look  extremely, 
well,  by  a  very  simple  method  which  cannot  possibly  interfere  ,i 
either  with  their  comfort  or  their  health.    It  is  to  buy  or  be- 
speak corsets  made  in  the  usual  manner,  yet  not  so  tight  but 
that  the  backs  can  be  brought  to  meet  with  perfect  ease.  After 
the  corsets  come  home,  draw  out  the  busk  and  all  the  bones, 
except  the  two  that  go  up  the  back  next  to  the  eyelet-holes ;  ^ 
and  which,  when  they  lie  flat  in  the  hollow  between  the  shoul-  ! 
ders,  are  not  felt  by  the  wearer.    After  the  bones  are  withdrawn,  j 
cut  off  the  lower  part  of  the  corsets  all  round,  allowing  them 
just  long  enough  to  reach  about  a  few  inches  below  the  waist  | 
of  your  longest-bodied  dress.    Then  bind  the  bottom  with  ' 
twilled  tape.    Worn  in  this  manner,  short,  and  without  a  busk  : 
or  any  bones  except  two  up  the  back,  the  corsets  will  feel  very  f 
comfortably,  and  can  in  no  way  affect  the  health ;  while  the  J 
figure  will  look  so  well  that  few  persons  will  perceive  that  | 
the  corsets  are  not  exactly  in  the  usual  mode.    It  is  the  busk  | 
in  front,  and  the  bones  compressing  the  waist  all  round,  (united  | 
with  improperly  tight  lacing,)  that  do  the  injury;  and  cause  in  I 
so  many  instances,  diseases  which  embitter  the  lives  of  our  j 
young  females,  even  if  they  do  not  eventually  destroy  them.  J 


HINTS    ON  DRESS-MAKING. 


425 


If  the  neck  of  your  dress  is  cut  down  into  a  point  in  front, 
or  is  made  surplice,  have  what  is  termed  a  modesty-piece,  to 
pin  on  the  front  of  your  corsets.  These  may  be  made  of  cam- 
bric or  fine  lawn,  and  trimmed  at  the  top  with  insertion  and 
lace.  Their  form  is  triangular,  and  the  top  or  broad  part  should 
be  cut  somewhat  of  a  semicircle,  highest  in  the  middle,  and 
rounding  off  towards  the  corners. 


A  GOWN-DRESS.— A  gown-dress,  to  fasten  in  front,  with- 
out the  assistance  of  another  person,  is,  on  that  account,  ex- 
tremely convenient,  and  can  be  made  in  such  a  manner  that  it 
may  easily  be  mistaken  for  a  frock.  Instead  of  being  open 
behind,  let  the  back  of  the  body  be  made  entirely  in  one  piece, 
with  a  corded  bias  fold  put  on  up  the  middle  of  the  back,  to 
look  as  if  it  covered  a  row  of  fastenings.  The  fore-body  must 
f  be  made  to  open  in  the  middle,  each  side  finished  with  a  cord- 
,  ing  and  a  whalebone ;  a  row  of  hooks  being  sewed  on  the  inside 
of  the  right,  and  a  row  of  eyes  on  the  right-side  of  the  left. 
These  divided  fore-bodies  set  better  if  the  neck  is  made  to 
meet  in  a  point  directly  in  front  just  above  the  corset-busk,  and 
retiring  back  towards  the  shoulders.  In  this  case,  the  two 
sides  of  the  neck  must  be  cut  straight  by  a  thread,  which  will 
give  the  proper  slope  when  the  dress  is  on.  If  these  dresses 
are  not  worn  with  a  pelerine  or  a  deep  collar  outside,  they 
should  have  a  close-fitting  under  handkerchief  beneath. 

The  skirt  of  a  gown  dress  must  be  made  apron  fashion, 
separate  from  the  body  in  front,  and  finished  at  the  top  with  a 
binding  of  the  same.  The  separation  need  not  extend  more 
than  a  quarter  of  a  yard  across  the  front,  for  if  carried  too  far 
back  it  will  be  difficult  to  fasten.  It  opens  on  the  left  side 
w  ith  a  slit  not  quite  a  quarter  of  a  yard  long,  and  fastens  at  the 
top  of  the  slit  with  a  strong  hook  and  eye.  The  pleats  must 
36* 


426 


THE    HOUSE  BOOK. 


be  laid  over  on  the  front  of  the  slit,  and  under  at  its  back,  so 
as  to  conceal  it  entirely.  If  it  s/iow/d  gape,  sew  underneath  a 
piece  of  the  same  material  as  the  dress,  carrying  it  down  a 
little  below  the  bottom  of  the  slit.  If  you  wear  pockets,  you 
may  have  a  corresponding  slit  on  the  other  side,  and  they  will 
do  for  pocket  holes. 

In  putting  on  a  gown-dress,  hook  the  apron  first,  (the  fore- 
body  coming  down  over  it,)  and  then  fasten  the  fore-body. 

If  the  skirt  is  gathered,  carry  the  gathers  of  the  side-breadth 
nearly  half  a  finger  under  the  part  of  the  apron  that  wraps  over 
at  the  slit,  otherwise  it  may  gape. 

If  the  body  of  this  or  any  other  dress  is  made  too  short,  the 
only  remedy  (if  there  is  no  outlet)  is  to  set  in  a  belt  between 
the  body  and  the  skirt;  after  which,  it  will  be  necessary  always 
to  wear  a  belt  over  it,  to  conceal  the  mode  of  lengthening. 

If  the  fore-body  of  a  dress,  whether  gown  or  frock,  has  been 
found,  when  finished,  to  be  too  tight  across  the  chest,  (a 
very  bad  fault,)  and  there  is  no  outlet,  the  best  remedy  is  to 
set  a  piece  up  the  front,  frougi.  the  waist  to  the  neck.  For  a 
gown-body,  there  must  be  two  pieces,  one  on  each  side,  both 
cut  bias,  finished  with  cording,  and  made  to  look  as  smooth 
and  well  as  possible.  A  frock  body  must  be  split  up,  and  a 
bias  piece  inserted,  handsomely  finished  at  the  seams  where 
it  is  sewed  in.  If  the  tightness  or  narrowness  across  the 
bosom  is  excessive,  the  piece  you  set  in  may  be  cut  some- 
what in  the  form  of  a  gore,  widening  towards  the  top.  This 
gore  may  be  ornamented  with  either  silk  cord  laced  across; 
handsome  buttons  or  frogs  ;  pip'-ng,  &c. ;  or  it  may  be  laid  in 
small,  flat,  horizontal  pleats  or  gathers,  going  across. 

PELERINES.— In  making  a  pelerine,  fold  the  material  in; 
half,  and  cut  it  double.    The  back  must  be  the  straightway  of 


HINTS   ON   DRESS-MAKING.  427 

the  stuff,  so  as  to  make  it  come  bias  at  the  shoulders ;  other- 
wise, the  back  of  the  pelerine  will  hang  off  behind,  and  its 
shoulders  will  have  an  awkward  draw.  Take  care  to  give  it 
a  sufficient  curve  in  front,  down  towards  the  corners.  If  there 
is  not  curve  enough,  it  will  hang  forward  and  look  badly.  If 
the  stuff  is  not  wide  enough  to  cut  the  pelerine  all  in  one,  take 
a  breadth  for  each  half,  and  make  a  straight  seam  up  the  back. 
Line  it  with  silk  or  with  paper  muslin,  and  have  the  trimming 
on  the  edge  broad  enough  to  prevent  any  part  of  the  lining  from 
shewing.  If  you  trim  it  with  folds,  cut  all  the  strips  of  an 
exact  bias,  and  join  them  neatly :  seeing  that  the  threads  of 
both  ends  go  one  way  at  the  joining  places.  Sew  first  a  covered 
cord  all  round  the  edge  of  the  pelerine,  and  then  sew  on  the 
fold,  holding  it  next  you.  You  may  either  put  on  both  edges 
of  the  fold  at  once,  or  do  first  one  and  then  the  other.  The 
fold  should  be  held  easy  all  along,  and  particularly  so  over  the 
shoulders  or  it  will  hoop.  Be  very  careful  to  put  it  on  perfectly 
smooth  and  even,  as  a  fold  twisted  and  warped  looks  very  badly. 
This  will  certainly  be  the  case,  if  it  is  not  an  exact  bias  all 
along,  or  if  it  is  stretched  the  least  in  sewing  on. 

The  trimming  of  a  pelerine  should  always  be  made  to 
diminish  gradually  in  width  as  it  approaches  the  front  corners ; 
and  near  the  extremity  of  the  corners,  it  should  be  put  on  quite 
plain  for  a  small  distance.  Pelerines  that  are  to  be  washed, 
should  have  no  lining,  and  no  other  trimming  than  a  ruffle, 
which,  if  of  muslin  or  chintz,  may  be  pleated  ;  or  else  fluted 
over  an  Italian  iron.  However,  for  a  chintz  or  calico,  a  double 
fold  may  be  quilled  on  the  edge,  to  be  taken  off  and  washed 
and  ironed  plain,  and  afterwards  quilled  on  again.  This,  of 
course,  must  be  done  every  time  the  pelerine  is  washed. 

In  cutting  flounces  and  ruffles,  the  general  rule  is  to  allow 
three  times  as  much  in  length  as  the  space  on  which  they 


428 


THE  HOUSE  BOOK. 


are  to  be  sewed.  This  will  make  them  sufficiently  full  for 
any  purpose. 

To  make  satin  piping  for  a  blond  pelerine,  or  for  any  other 
purpose,  cut  some  satin  exactly  bias  into  slips,  two,  three,  or 
four  inches  wide,  according  to  the  size  you  wish  to  have  the 
piping.  It  must  be  cut  exactly  even,  and  the  pieces  joined 
at  the  ends  precisely  as  the  threads  run.  Then  fold  or  roll  it 
over,  turning  in  the  last  edge,  which  must  be  run  closely  along 
with  a  needle  and  thread,  seeing  that  not  a  single  stitch  goes 
through,  so  as  to  show  on  the  surface  of  the  piping.  Then  lay 
it  on  the  right  side  of  the  pelerine,  and  run  it  on  the  wrong  side, 
just  catching  it  through  the  blond  as  you  go  along,  and  again 
taking  care  that  no  stitch  goes  quite  through  the  whole  thick- 
ness of  the  piping. 

All  bows  made  of  silk,  should  be  finished  with  a  bias  bind- 
ing of  the  same. 

In  making  a  pelerine  with  pleats  down  the  front,  the  pleats 
must  lie  the  straightway  of  the  stuff,  and  not  bias.  If  a  muslin 
pelerine  is  made  with  bias  pleats,  they  will  wash  and  iron  to 
great  disadvantage,  and  look  very  badly ;  unless  the  pelerine 
is  taken  apart,  and  all  the  pleats  are  let  out  before  washing, 
putting  them  in  anew  after  ironing. 


INDEX. 


Accidents  from  fire,  147. 
Alabaster,  (to  clean,)  199. 
Anthracite  coal,  129. 
Anthracite  coal  grates,  129. 
Ants,  (to  destroy,)  114. 
Aronetta  dye,  98. 
Astral  lamps,  156. 
Astral  lamps,  (management  of,) 
167. 

Attics,  (the)  325. 
Baskets,  239. 

Beaver  hats,  (to  take  care  of,)  70. 
Bed-bugs  or  chinches,  (remedies 

for,)  105.  . 
Bedding,  308. 
Bed-covers,  311. 
Bed-curtains,  306. 
Bed  feathers,  (to  wash,)  64. 
Bed-rooms,  to  clean,)  318. 
Beds,  (to  make  up,)  316. 
Beds,  (to  warm,)  321. 
Bedsteads,  303. 
Bedsteads,  (to  put  up,)  305. 
Bees,  (to  keep,)  370. 
Bells,  332. 

Bishop's  lawn,  (to  wash,)  46. 
Bituminous  or  English  coal,  141. 
Blacking,  (fine — to  make,)  73. 
Blacking  that  will  preserve  the 

leather,  73. 
Blacking  for  stoves,  216. 


Black  crape,  (to  remove  water- 
stains  from,)  85. 

Black  dye,  99. 

Black  dye  for  yarn,  104. 

Black  silk,  (to  wash,)  45. 

Black  silk  sleeves,  (to  restore  when 
faded,)  79. 

Black  silk  stockings,  (to  wash,)  58. 

Black  worsted  stockings,(to  wash,) 
34. 

Blankets,  (to  keep  through  the 

summer,)  310. 
Blankets,  (to  wash,)  34 
Block  tin  dish  covers,  (to  clean,) 

207. 

Blond,  (to  wash,)  54. 
Blue  composition,  96. 
Blue  dye,  95. 
Blue  dye,  (dark,)  96. 
Blue  dye  for  yarn,  103. 
Bobbinet,  (to  shrink,)  62, 
Bobbinet  or  cotton  lace,  (to  wash,) 
61. 

Body  of  a  dress,  (to  make,)  410. 
Bonnet  cover,  (to  make,)  353. 
Bonnets,  (gingham — to  wash,)  48. 
Bonnets,  (straw  or  Leghorn — to 

clean,)  67. 
Book  muslin  dresses,  (to  wash,)  43. 
Boots  and  shoes,  (to  clean,)  72. 
Boots  and  shoes,  (French  polish 

for,)  74. 
Boot  tops,  (wash  for,)  74. 

429 


430 


INDEX. 


Brass,  (to  clean,)  218. 
Brass  kettles,  (to  clean,)  219. 
Bread  seals,  (to  make,)  375. 
Breakfast  table,  (to  set,)  274. 
Brick  hearths,  (to  clean,)  201. 
Brick  oven,  (to  heat,)  145. 
Britannia  metal,  (to  clean,)  207. 
Broken  dishes,  (to  mend,)  291. 
Broken  glass,  (to  mend,)  292. 
Brown  dye,  100. 
Brown  dye  for  j'arn,  101. 
Brown  linen,  (fine — to  wash,)  47. 
Brushing  a  coat,  75. 
Brushes,  241. 
Brushes,  (to  clean,)  72. 
Buflf  colour,  (to  dye,)  102. 
BuflF  dye,  (excellent,)  97. 
Burn  salve,  (to  make,)  150. 
Buttei  knives,  254. 

Candles,  167. 

Candles,    (common    mould — to 

make,)  168.^ 
Candles,  (fine  home-made,)  169. 
Candles,  (dip — to  make,)  170. 
Candles,  (small  wax — to  mate^i) 

169.  ' 
Candlestickg,(japanned — to  clean,) 

209. 

Candlesticks,(silver  and  plated — to 

clean,)  206. 
Carpets,  173. 
Carpet-bags,  352. 
Carpets,  (to  beat,)  181. 
Carpets,  (bed-room,)  178. 
Carpets,  (stair,)  179. 
Carpets,  (to  sweep,)  180. 
Carpets,  (to  wash,)  181. 
Carpets,  (to  extract  oil  from,)  83. 
Carpets,  (rag,)  185. 
Castors,  251. 
Carving,  268. 


Cask,  (an  old  one — to  sweeten,) 

226. 
Cellars,  245. 

Cement  for  alabaster,  &c.,  293. 
Cement  cakes,  294. 
Cement,  (common,)  293. 
Cement  ftfr  iron,  293. 
Chairs,  sofas,  &c.,  296. 
Chairs,  (to  clean,)  198,  340. 
Chair-screens,  153. 
Chandeliers,  (to  clean,)  212. 
Charcoal,  127. 
Chemises,  (to  make,)  394. 
Chimneys,  334. 
Chinneys  on  fire,  146. 
China-ware,  290. 
China,  (to  pack,)  347. 
Chinches,  or  bed-bugs,  (to  destroy,) 
105. 

Chintz,  (dark — to  wash,)  39. 

Chintz,  (furniture — to  wash,)  49. 

Cinnamon  brown,  (to  dye,)  100. 

Clipping  bags,  196. 

Cloak,  (a  lady's— to  fold,)  77. 

Clothes  balls,  91. 

Cloth  clothes,  (to  wash,)  35. 

Clothes  brushes,  (to  clean,)  72. 

Coal,  (anthracite,)  129. 

Coal  grates,  (anthracite,)  129. 

Coal  grate  fires,  132. 

Coal  stove  fires,  139. 

Coal  spark,  (to  extract  from  the 

eye,)  150. 
Coffee  starch,  21. 
Cockroaches,  (to  destroy,)  109. 
Coke  fires,  142. 

Collar,  (false  one — to  make,)  392. 
Coloured  dresses,  (to  wash,)  37. 
Colours,  (liquid — to  prepare,)  379. 
Combs,  (to  clean,)  72. 
Combs,  (tortoise-shell — to  ii\end,) 
71. 

Cotton  comfortables,(to  make,)313. 


INDEX. 


431 


Cotton  stockings,  (unbleached — to 

wash,)  59. 
Cotton  cord,  (to  shrink,)  62. 
Counterpanes,  (to  wash,)  313. 
Court-plaster,  (to  make,)  381. 
Cow,  (to  keep,)  355. 
Cream  oysters,  288. 
Crickets,  (to  destroy,)  112. 
Crockery,  (kitchen,)  233. 
Curtains,  188. 
Curtains,  (to  clean,)  189. 


Dairy,  359. 

Dampness  in  beds,  (to  detect,)  321. 
Damp  walls,  335. 
Decanters,  (to  clean,)  209. 
Dip  candles,  (to  make,)  170. 
Dining-tables,  (to  polish,)  197. 
Dinner  table,  (to  set,)  256. 
Dinner  table,  (to  wait  on,)  261. 
Doilies,  256, 

Doors  and  windows,  (to  stop  their 

cracks,)  322. 
Door  locks,  333. 
Down  feathers,  (to  clean,)  64. 
Double  wrappers,  (to  make,)  401. 
Dresses,  (coloured — to  wash,)  37. 
Dress,  (book  muslin — to  wash,)  43. 
Dress,  (painted  muslin — to  wash,) 

42, 

Dress,  (a  lady's — to  fold,)  75. 
Dresses,  (to  fold  for  packing,)  347. 
Dress-making,  (hints  on,)  406. 
Diess,  (a  lady's — to  make  the 

body,)  410. 
Dress,  (to  make  the  sleeves,)  416. 
Dress,  (to  make  the  skirt,)  420. 
Ducks,  (to  keep,)  369. 
Durable  ink,  (to  make,)  378. 
Dust,  (to  remove  from  a  dress,)  86. 
Dyes,  (domestic — remarks  on,)  93. 
Dyosforyarn,(countrymanner,)101. 


Enamelled  kettles,  (to  clean,)  220. 

Entrance  halls,  328. 

Entry  lamps,  160. 

Evening  parties,  (hints  on,)  280, 


Faded  dress,  (to  bleach,)  26. 

False  collars,  (to  make,)  392. 

False  shirt-bosoms,  (to  make,)  393, 

Feathers,  (bed — to  wash,)  64, 

Filtering  jars,  244, 

Finger  glasses,  254. 

Fire  irons,  (to  clean,)  216, 

Fire  irons,  (to  prevent  from  rust- 
ing,) 217, 

Fire  screens,  151. 

Flannel,  (to  make  up,)  396. 

Flannel,  (new — to  shrink,)  31,  32. 

Flannel,  (to  wash,)  32. 

Fleas,  111. 

Flies,  112. 

Floating  tapers,  163. 

Floating  tapers,  (cheap  ones,)  166. 

Floating  tapers,  (to  renew,)  164. 

Flower  stands,  194. 

Folding  clothes  for  ironing,  26. 

Folding  a  coat,  75. 

Folding  a  coat  for  packing,  348. 

Folding  a  lady's  dress,  75. 

Folding  a  dress  for  packing,  347. 

Folding  a  lady's  cloak,  77. 

Floors,  335. 

Forks,  (to  clean,)  213. 

Fowls,  (to  keep,)  363, 

Front  doors,  330. 

Fruit  stains,  (to  remove,)  79. 

Furniture,  (black  walnut,)  193. 

Furniture,  (curled  maple,)  193. 

Furniture,  (mahogany,)  192. 

Furniture,  (rose  wood,)  193. 

Furniture,  (varnished  mahogany— 
to  clean,)  196. 

Furniture,  (kitchen,)  228. 


432 


INDEX. 


Furniture,  (to  take  care  when  the 
house  is  repairing,)  343, 

Geese,  (to  keep,)  368. 
German  silver,  (to  clean,)  206. 
Gingham  bonnets,  (to  wash,)  48 
Gilt  chandeliers,  (to  clean,)  212. 
Glass,  (broken — to  mend,)  292. 
Glass,  (to  pack,)  347. 
Glass,  (to  clean,)  210. 
Glass  stoppers,  (to  get  out,)  210. 
Gloves,  (kid  or  hoskin — to  wash,) 
61. 

Gloves,  (white  French  thread — to 

clean,)  59. 
Gloves,  (gentlemen's — to  clean,) 

62. 

Gloves,  (wash-leather — to  wash,) 
60.. 

Glue  stiffening,  22. 

Glue,  (common,)  295.  ;. 

Glue,  (of  rice,)  295. 

Gold  fish,  (to  take  care  of,)  375. 

Gold  muslin,  (to  wash,)  44. 

Gold  ornaments,  (to  clean,)  70. 

Gown  dress,  (to  make,)  425. 

Grates  for  anthracite  coal,  129.' 

Grease,  ( to  extract  from  a  dress,)  80. 

Grease  spots,  (to  remove  from 
books,)  83. 

Grease,  (to  remove  from  wall  pa- 
per,) 84. 

Green  dye,  96. 

Green  dye  for  yarn,  103. 

Green  colouring  for  maps,  379. 


Hard  soap,  (to  make,)  17. 
Hard  soap,  (fine — to  make,)  18. 
Hats, (beaver — to  take  care  of,)  70. 
Head-brushes,  (to  clean,)  72. 
Hearths,  (stone — to  clean,)  201. 


Hearths,  (biick — to  clean,)  201. 
Heat  marks,  (to  remove  from  a 

table,)  88. 
Hints  on  evening  parties,  280. 
Hints  on  dress-making,  406. 
Hoskin  gloves,  (to  clean,)  61. 
Hood,  (a  lady's — to  make,)  403. 
House-cleaning,  (preparations  for,) 

336. 

House-cleaning,  (finishing,)  342. 
Household  articles,  (to  pack,)  354. 
Hydrants,  247. 


Ink,  (black— to  make,)  376. 
Ink,  (durable — to  make,)  378. 
Ink,  (red— to  make,)  378. 
Ink-stains,  (to  remove  from  a  car- 
pet,) 87. 

Ink-stains,  (to  take  out  of  maho- 
gany,) 88. 

Ink-stains,  (to  take  out  of  a  table- 
cover,)  86. 

Ink-stains,  (to  take  out  of  white 
clothes,)  87. 

Ink-stains,  (to  take  out  of  un- 
painted  wood,)  88. 

Ink,  (marking — to  take  out,)  87. 

Italian  or  patent  iron,  29. 

Ironing,  26. 

Ironing  silk,  31. 

Ironing  velvet,  30. 

Iron,  (polished — to  preserre  from 
rust,)  218. 

Iron  ware,  234. 

Iron,  (cement  for  when  broken,) 
293. 


Japanned  candlesticks,  (to  clean,) 
209. 

Japanned  waiters,  (to  clean,)  20; 
Jars,  (to  purify,)  224. 


INDEX. 


433 


Keeping  a  cow,  355. 
Kettles,  (brass — to  clean,)  219. 
Kettles,  (tea — to  clean,)  221. 
Kettles,  (porcelain,)  220. 
Kitchen  clothes,  240. 
Kitchen  crockery,  233. 
Kitchen  furniture,  228. 
Kitchen  'amps,  163. 
Knife  rests,  254. 
Knives,  (to  clean,)  213. 


Lace,(cotton  orbobbinet — to  wash,) 
51. 

Lace,  (thread — to  wash,)  52,  53. 
Lace,  (gold — to  clean,)  45. 
Lace  veil,  (black — to  wash,)  56. 
Lace  veil,  (white — to  wash,)  55. 
Lamps,  (astral,)  156. 
Lamps,  (astral — to  manage,)  157. 
Lamps,  (chamber,)  162. 
Lamps,  (entry,)  160. 
Lamps,  (kitchen,)  163. 
Lamps,  (night,)  165. 
Lamp  oil,  155.  , 
Lamp  oil,  (to  take  out  of  a  carpet,) 
83. 

Lamp  oil,(to  take  out  of  a  floor,)  82. 
Lamp  oil,  to  extract  from  a  dress,) 
81. 

Lamp  oil,  (to  extract  from  a  sofa,) 
82. 

Lamp  rugs,  161. 

Lanterns,  163. 

Laundry  work,  7. 

Lawn,  (bishop's — to  wash,)  46. 

Leghorn  bonnets,  (to  clean,)  67. 

Linen,  (to  make  up,)  386. 

Linen,  (mildewed — to  restore,)  88. 

Linen,  (scorched — to  restore,)  89. 

Linen,  (stained — to  restore,)  90. 

Linen  window-blinds,  190. 

Linen,  (to  whiten,)  89. 


Looking-glasses,  (to  clean,)  211. 
Lye,  (to  make,)  13. 


Mahogany  furniture,  192. 
Mahogany  furniture,  (varnished — 

to  clean,)  196. 
Mahogany  tables,  (unvarnished — 

to  clean,)  197. 
Mahogany,  (to  remove  ink-spots 

from,)  88. 
Mahogany  chairs  and  sofas,  198. 
Maps,  (to  colour,)  380. 
Marble,  (white— to  clean,)  199. 
Marble,  (coloured — to  clean,)  200. 
Marble,  (cement  for,)  293. 
Marabout  feathers,  (to  clean,)  64. 
Marking  ink,  (to  take  out,)  87. 
Marseilles  quilt,  (to  wash,)  313. 
Mattrasses,  (to  renew,)  66.  ■ 
Mats  for  the  table,  253, 
Matting,  (straw,)  184. 
Merino  dresses,  (to  wash,)  41. 
Mice,  117. 

Mildew,  (to  take  out  of  linen,)  88. 
Mirrors,  300.  ' 
Mixture  for  stains,  91. 
Moths,  115. 

Mould  candles,  (to  make,)  168. 
Mourning  chintz,  (to  wash,)  39. 
Mousseline  de  laine,  (to  wash,)  41. 
Mud,  (to  take  out  of  a  dress,)  86. 
Muslin,  (book — to  wash,)  43. 
Muslin,  (gold  or  silver — to  wash,) 
44. 

Muslin,  (painted — to  wash,)  42. 
Muslins,  (small — to  do  up,)  49. 
Musquitoes,  112. 


Nankeen,  (to  wash,)  48. 
Nankeen  colour,  (to  dye,)  99. 

Napkins,  255. 


37 


434 


INDEX. 


New  tin,  (to  remove  its  taste,)  225. 
New  wood,  (to  remove  its  taste,) 
225. 

Night  gowns,  (to  make,)  398. 
Night  capes,  (to  make,)  403. 
Nurseries,  323. 


Oil  cans,  (to  clean,)  155. 

Oil  cloths  or  painted  carpets,  183. 

Olive  dye,  100. 

Orange  dye,  102. 

Ornaments  of  gold,  (to  clean,)  70. 
Oysters,  (with  cream,)  288. 
Oyster  patties,  289. 


Packing  a  carpet  bag,  352. 
Packing  glass  and  china,  347. 
Packing  household  articles,  354. 
Packing  a  large  trunk,  349. 
Paint,  (to  clean,)  339. 
Paint,  (to  remove  from  a  dress,)  84. 
Paint,  (to  remove  from  a  coat,)  85. 
Paint,  (to  remove  its  smell,)  343. 
Painted  muslin,  (|p  wash,)  42. 
Pantry,  251. 

Paper,  (to  make  transparent,)' 380. 
Paper  window-blinds,  190. 
Paste,  (common — for  paper,)  294. 
Paste,  (cold,)  295, 
Paste,  (rye,)  295. 
Pearls,  (to  clean,)  71. 
Pelerines,  (to  make,)  426. 
Pencil  marks,  (to  preserve,)  381. 
Pictures,  186. 
Pink  dye,  94. 
Phials,  (to  wash,)  211. 
Plate  mixture,  (fine,)  204. 
Plate  mixture,  (another,)  204. 
Plated  Candlesticks,  (to  clean,)  206. 
Plated  ware,  (to  clean,)  203. 
Platef  and  dishes,  (to  wash,)  223. 


Polishing  dining-tables,  197. 
Porcelain  kettles,  220. 
Poultry,  (to  draw,)  272. 
Pounce,  (to  make,)  381. 
Preparations  for  house-cleaning, 
336. 

Preparing  rooms  for  summer,  344, 
Pumps,  247. 

Putty,  (old— to  soften,)  292. 

Quilts,  (to  wash,)  312. 
Quilts,  (Marseilles — to  wash,)  313- 
Quilts,  (silk— to  make,)  314. 
Quilted  wrappers,  402. 


Rabbit  skins,  (to  prepare,)  120. 
Rag  carpets,  185. 
Rats,  117. 

Receptacles  for  dresses,  298. 

Refrigerators,  243. 

Red  dye,  94. 

Red  dye  for  yarn,  103. 

Red  colouring  for  maps,  379. 

Remarks  on  bed-chambers,  296. 

Remarks  on  domestic  dyes,  93. 

Remarks  on  dyeing  yarn,  101, 

Remarks  on  kitchens,  227. 

Remarks  on  sewing-work,  382. 

Remedi.os  for  stings,  &c.,  116. 

Rennets,  (to  prepare,)  362. 

Reticules,  (travelling,)  352. 

Ribbons,  (to  wash,)  56. 

Rice  glue,  295. 

Rocking-chairs,  194. 

Rush  lights,  170. 

Rust,  (to  take  out  of  steel,)  217. 

Safes,  244. 

Salmon  colour,  (to  dye,)  98. 
Salt  of  lemon,  92. 


INI 

Satin  shoes,  (white — to  clean,)  91. 
Scorched  linen,  (to  restore,)  89. 
Scrap  jars,  195. 
Sciubbing  floors,  341. 
Setting  the  dinner  table,  256. 
Sewing,  382. 

Silk,  (black — to  wash,)  45. 

Silk  sleeves, (black — to  restore,)  79. 

Silk,  (to  iron,)  31. 

Silk,  (to  keep,)  90. 

Silk  quilt,  (to  make,)  314. 

Silver,  (to  clean,)  201. 

Silver,  (German— to  clean,)  206. 

Shirts,  (to  fold,)  349. 

Shirts,  (plain  ones — to  makCj)  388. 

Shirts  with  bosom  pieces,  390. 

Shirts  open  at  the  back  of  the 

neck,  391. 
Shirt  bosoms,  (false— to  make,)  393. 
Shirt  collars,  (false— to  make,)  392. 
Short  blinds  for  windows,  191. 
Shrinking  bobbinet,  62. 
Shrinking  cotton  cord,  62. 
Shrinking  new  flannel,  31,  32. 
Skirt  of  a  dress,  (to  make,)  420. 
Skylights,  327. 
Slate  colour,  (to  dye,)  99. 
Sleeves  of  a  dress,  (to  make,)  416. 
Slop  buckets,  (to  purify,)  224. 
Small  muslins,  (to  wash,)  49. 
Small  wax  candles,  (to  make,)  169. 
Soap  fat,  (to  keep  from  moulding,) 

14,  15. 

Soap,  (common  hard— to  make,)  17. 
Soap,  (fine  hard— to  make,)  18. 
Soft  soap,  (to  make,)  15. 
Soda,  (for  washing,)  24. 
Sofas  and  mahogany  chairs,  198. 
Spark,  (to  extract  from  the  eye,) 
150. 

Spermaceti,  (to  take  out,)  85. 
Spots  of  tar  and  turpentine,  (to  re- 
move,) 81. 


E  X. 


435 


Sprinkling  and  folding  clothes,  26. 

Squirrel-skins,  (to  prepare,)  120. 

Stains,  (to  remove  from  black 
crape,)  85. 

Stains,  (to  remove  from  table- 
linen,)  78. 

Stains,  (to  remove  from  silk,)  79. 

Stains,   (to  remove   from  silver 
spoons,)  204, 

Stains  of  stove  pipes,  or  soot,  83. 

Stair  carpets,  179. 

Stair  rods,  (to  clean,)  219. 

Starch,  (common — to  prepare,)  20. 

Starch,  (gum-arabic,)  21. 

Starch  of  home  manufacture,  20. 

Starch  made  with  coffee,  21. 

Steel,  (to  remove  its  rust,)  217. 

Stockings,  (black  worsted — to 
wash,)  34. 

Stockings,  (black  silk — to  wash,) 
58. 

Stockings,  (white  silk — to  wash,) 
57. 

Stockings,  (silk — to  tinge  pink,) 
58, 

Stockings,  (F^nch   thread  —  to 

wash,)  59, 
Stockings,  (unbleached  cotton — to 

wash,)  59. 
Stockings,  (woollen — to  wash,)  33, 
Stone  hearths,  (to  clean,)  201. 
Stopping  door  and  window  cracks, 

322. 

Store-rooms,  248. 
Stoves,  (blacking  for,)  216. 
Stoves,  (tlose,)  125. 
Stoves  for  coal,  125. 
Stoves  for  wood,  127. 
Straw  bonnets,  (to  clean,)  67. 
Straw  matting,  184. 
Supper  parties,  287. 
Swansdown  capes  or  tippets,  (to 
clean,)  63. 


436 


INDEX. 


Table,  (breakfast— to  set,)  274, 
Table,  (dinner — to  set,)  256. 
Table,  (to  wait  on,)  261. 
Table-linen,  255. 
Table  mixture,  197. 
Tapers,  (floating,)  163. 
Tapers,    (floating — very  cheap,) 
166. 

Tapers,  (floating — to  renew,)  164. 

Tar  or  turpentine  spots,  (to  re- 
move,) 81. 

Tea-kettles,  (to  clean,)  221. 

Tea-table,  (to  set,)  279. 

Tea  things,  (to  wash,)  222. 

Tea  urns,  (to  clean,)  208. 

Tin  dish-covers,  (to  clean,)  207. 

Tins,  (common — to  clean,)  208. 

Tin,  (n<iw.— to  remove  its  taste  of 
rosin,)  225. 

Tin  ware,  236. 

Thread  gloves  and  stockings,  (to 

wash,)  59. 
Toilet  tables,  300. 
Tortoise  shell,  (to  clean,and  mend,) 

71. 

Trunks,  (to  pack,)l649. 
Turkeys,  (to  keep,)  367. 


Venetian  blinds,  190. 
Vials,  (to  wash,)  211. 


Washing  bed-feathers,  64. 
Washing  with  soda,  24. 
Washing  white  clothes,  22. 
Washing-stands,  301. 
Wax,  (to  take  out  of  cloth,)  85. 
Wax    candles,    (small    ones — to 

make,)  169. 
Wax-polish,  (for  furniture,)  197. 
Whiting,  (very  fine,)  205. 
Whitening  clothes,  25. 

White  satin  shoes,  (to  clean,)  91. 

White-washing,  338. 

Wilmington  clay  balls,  92. 

Window  cracks,  (to  stop,)  322. 

Window-blinds  of  linen,  190. 

Window  blinds  of  paper,  190. 

Window  panes,  (to  mend,)  292. 

Window  washing,  340. 

Wood,  121.  ; 

Wood  fires;  122. 

Wood  stove  fires,  123. , 

Wooden  vifa^e,  238. 

Woollen  shawls,  (to  wash,)  37. 

Woollen  stockings,  (to  wash,)  33. 

Woollen  table-covers,  (to  wash,) 

So.  ; 

Woollen  yar^ii  (to  w'ash,)  34. 
Worsted  4  stockings,  (black  — to 

wash,)  54.,;^- 
VVrappers,  (double-^to  make,)  401, 
Wrappers,  (quilted — to  make,)402, 


Waiting  on  table,  261. 
Walls,  171. 


'"  'Yellow  dye,  95. 
J  -bellow  dye  for  yarn,  103. 


