G 
rotuse 


FUR   AND   FEATHER   SERIES 

edited  by 
ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON 


THE    GROUSE 


FUR     AND     FEATHER     SERIES. 
EDITED  BY  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON. 


THE    PARTRIDGE.       NATURAL   HISTORY—  By  the 

Rev.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON. SHOOTING— By  A.  J.STUART- 

WORTLEY. COOKERY—  By  GEORGE  SAINTSBURY.    With 

Illustrations  by  A.  THORBURN,  A.  J.  STUART-\VORTLEY,  and 
C.  WHVMPER.     Crown  Svo.  5^. 

THE  GROUSE.    XATURAL  HISTORY—  By  the  Rev. 

H.  A.   MACPHERSON. SHOOTING—  By  A.  J.  STUART  - 

WORTLEY. COOKERY—  By  GEORGE  SAINTSBURY.    With 

Illustrations  by  A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY  and  A.  THORBURN. 
Crown  Svo.  55. 

THE    PHEASANT.       By  A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY, 

the  Rev.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON,  and  A.  J.  INNES  SHAND. 

THE   HARE  AND   THE   RABBIT.     By  the  HON. 
GERALD  LASCELLES,  &c. 

WILDFOWL.     By  the  Hon.  JOHN  SCOTT-MONTAGU, 

M.P.,  &c. 

Illustrated  by  A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY 
A.   THORBURN,  and  others. 


London:    LONGMANS,  GREEN,  &   CO, 
New  York:  15  East  i6Ih  Street. 


EOME    LIFfl. 


THE     GROUSE 


NATURAL   HISTORY 
BY   THE    REV.   H.  A.  MACPHERSON 

SHOOTING 
BY   A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY 

COOKERY 
BY   GEORGE    SAINTSBURY 


WITH   ILLUSTRATIONS  BY  A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY  AND  A.  THORBURN 

LONDON 
LONGMANS,     GREEN,     AND     CO. 

AND  NEW   YORK  :   15  EAST  i6th  STREET 
1894 

All    rig  lit  s    reserved 


PREFACE 


THE  design  of  the  Fur  and  Feather  Series  is  to 
present  monographs,  as  complete  as  they  can 
possibly  be  made,  on  the  various  English  birds 
and  beasts  which  are  generally  included  under 
the  head  of  Game. 

Books  on  Natural  History  cover  such  a  vast 
number  of  subjects  that  their  writers  necessarily 
find  it  impossible  to  deal  with  each  in  a  really 
comprehensive  manner  ;  and  it  is  not  within 
the  scope  of  such  works  exhaustively  to  discuss 
the  animals  described,  in  the  light  of  objects  of 
sport.  Books  on  sport,  again,  seldom  treat  at 
length  of  the  Natural  History  of  the  furred  and 
feathered  creatures  which  are  shot  or  otherwise 
taken  ;  and,  so  far  as  the  Editor  is  aware,  in  no 
book  hitherto  published  on  Natural  History  or 
Sport  has  information  been  given  as  to  the  best 
methods  of  turning  the  contents  of  the  bag  to 
account. 


vi  PREFACE 

Each  volume  of  the  present  Series  will, 
therefore,  be  devoted  to  a  bird  or  beast,  and 
will  be  divided  into  three  parts.  The  Natural 
History  of  the  species  will  first  be  given  ;  it 
will  then  be  considered  from  the  point  of  view 
of  sport ;  and  the  writer  of  the  third  division 
will  assume  that  the  creature  has  been  carried 
to  the  larder,  and  will  proceed  to  discuss  it  gas- 
tronomically.  The  origin  of  the  animals  will 
be  traced,  their  birth  and  breeding  described, 
every  known  method  of  circumventing  and 
killing  them — not  omitting  the  methods  em- 
ployed by  the  poacher — will  be  explained  with 
special  regard  to  modern  developments,  and 
they  will  only  be  left  when  on  the  table  in  the 
most  appetising  forms  which  the  delicate  science 
of  cookery  has  discovered. 

It  is  intended  to  make  the  illustrations  a 
prominent  feature  of  the  Series.  The  pictures 
in  the  present  volume  are  after  drawings  by 
Mr.  A.  J.  Stuart-Wortley  and  Mr.  A.  Thor- 
burn.  All  .of  them,  including  the  diagrams, 
have  been  designed  under  the  supervision  of 
the  first-named. 

ALFRED    E.  T.  WATSON. 


CONTENTS 

NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

BY  THE  REV.  H.  A.   MACPHERSON 

CHAP.  PAGE 

I.  IN  PRAISE  OF  THE  GROUSE         ....      3 

II.  THE  MANNERS  OF  THE  GROUSE    .        .        .     .     19 

III.  THE  GROUSE  AND  ITS  ENEMIES.        .        .        .41 

I\7.  THE  PLUMAGE  OF  THE  GROUSE     .        .        .     .     56 

V.     GROUSE-BECKING 65 

SHOOTING   THE  GROUSE 

BY  A.  J.  STUART-WORTLEY 

I.     'THE  SCOTCH  MAIL' 83 

II.     'OVER  DOGS' 102 

III.  SCOTCH  DRIVING 120 

IV.  ENGLISH  DRIVING 172 

V.  GROUND,  STOCK,  AND   POACHING        .        .         .  217 

VI.  'THE  FRINGE  OF  THE  MOOR'       .         .         .     .  237 
VII.     RECORDS  AND  REMARKS 253 

COOKERY  OF  THE   GROUSE          267 

BY  GEORGE  SAINTSEURY 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

BY 
A.    J.    STUART-WORTLEY   AND   A.    THORBURN 

(Reproduced  by  Messrs.  Andre  &*  Sleigh,  Augerer  &>  Goschl, 
Universal  Process  Company,  and  Walker  &°  Boutall} 


VIGNETTE           Title-page 

AT  HOME Frontispiece 

BETWEEN  Two  FIRES To  face  p.  20 

THE  SHADOW  OF  DEATH        ....  ,,46 

THE  P'IRST  RIGHT  AND  LEFT    ....  ,,96 

WELL  FOUND  AND  WELL  BACKED         .        .  ,,       118 

OLD  GROUSE  ON  THE  TOPS       .        .        .     .  ,,       148 

WHY  TURN  ROUND? ,,       190 

NOT  TO  BE  TURNED ,,      204 

THE  LAST  BEFORE  DARK       .        .        .        .  ,,216 

BLACKCOCK  FORWARD ,,      238 

WHERE  ARE  THEY? ,,       248 

ON  THE  WALL ,,      262 

VARIOUS  DIAGRAMS  IN  THE  TEXT  BY  A.  J.  STUART- 
WORTLEY. 


NATURAL  HISTORY  OF  THE  GROUSE 

BY   THE 

REV.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON 


CHAPTER   I 

IN   PRAISE   OF   THE   GROUSE 

IT  is  hardly  too  much  to  say  that  the  Red  Grouse 
enjoys  a  unique  position  among  the  members  of  the 
feathered  community.  Certainly  no  other  bird  exacts 
a  similar  amount  of  homage  from  its  admirers,  or 
affords  as  large  a  share  of  enjoyment  to  sportsmen. 
In  these  days  of  increasing  taxation,  it  would  go  hard 
with  many  of  us  Highland  lairds  if  we  had  no  grouse 
moors  from  which  to  draw  the  rates  which  go  to 
support  school  boards  and  other  luxuries  exacted  by 
the  oppressive  democracy.  Scotland  is  pre-eminently 
the  home  of  this  splendid  bird — a  fact  to  which  she 
owes  a  very  large  portion  of  her  material  prosperity. 
It  was  a  happy  hour  when  the  Sassenach  discovered 
the  pleasure  to  be  gained  from  renting  a  Northern 
grouse  moor. 

Until  then  the  bird  had  existed  only  on  sufferance, 
persecuted  by  many  enemies  and  little  cared  for  by 
anyone.  It  is  true  that  its  value  as  food  was  always 


4         NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

recognised  ;  but  that  circumstance  only  led  to  its 
increased  pursuit  in  the  days  when  Englishmen  killed 
the  '  pootes '  as  well  as  the  parent  bird  in  the  nesting 
season.  Happily  those  evil  days  have  well-nigh  passed 
into  oblivion.  For  us  moderns  the  name  of  grouse 
has  a  fragrance  of  its  own.  Its  bare  mention  suffices 
to  set  us  dreaming  of  the  fresh,  breezy  hillside,  with 
its  varied  animal  life  and  endless  expanse  of  purple 
heather.  Considering  how  widely  the  term  grouse 
circulates,  there  is  a  certain  quaintness  in  the  fact 
that  the  word  is  not  a  British  one  at  all,. but  only  an 
addition  to  our  language  and  of  doubtful  origin. 
Our  forefathers  borrowed  the  word  from  abroad, 
apparently  from  an  old  French  adjective  grieschc, 
signifying  grey  or  speckled.  From  this  originated  a 
plural  word  grice,  printed  thus  in  1 6 1 1  by  Cotgrave, 
who  used  it  to  denote  the  '  moor-henne,'  the  female, 
as  he  tells  us,  of  the  '  mooregame.'  The  grouse  was 
originally  the  moor-fowl,  moor-game,  moor-cock,  or 
muir-fowl,  and  preserves  these  titles  at  the  present 
day  in  many  districts  of  both  England  and  Scotland. 
Willughby  called  it  the  red  game,  and  very  properly. 
But  the  plural  word  grice  was  early  modified  into  the 
singular  grows.  Professor  Newton  has  shown  that  this 
title  was  first  applied  to  the  blackcock,  notably  in  an 
ordinance  for  the  household  of  Henry  VIII.,  dated 


IN  PRAISE   OF  THE   GROUSE  5 

from  Eltham  in  the  year  1531.  Similarly,  Charleton 
tells  us  that  two  species  of  the  heath-cock  or  grouss 
are  indigenous  to  Great  Britain  respectively  entitled 
the  black  game  and  the  grey  game.  In  course  of  time 
the  name  grouse,  very  variously  spelt,  has,  curiously 
enough,  come  to  be  applied  to  the  red  grouse 
almost  exclusively.  It  may  be  well  to  mention  that 
some  scholars  have  sought  a  derivation  of  grouse  in 
the  Celtic  terms  grug= heather  and  -iar=a  hen  ;  but 
the  suggestion  has  not  met  with  favour.  If  the  origin 
of  grouse,  however,  be  somewhat  perplexing — and  I 
for  one  should  be  very  thankful  for  further  light  upon 
the  subject — it  must  be  allowed  that  the  origin  of  an- 
other name  of  the  species  is  still  more  mysterious.  I 
allude  to  the  name  gor-cock,  which  appears  to  have 
latterly  dropped  out  of  use,  but  which  was  formerly 
much  in  vogue  both  south  and  north  of  the  Border. 
Professor  Newton  assures  me  that  he  has  no  clue  to 
the  etymology  of  this  term,  though  he  thinks  it  may 
have  some  connection  with  the  harsh  cry  of  the  bird. 
My  own  belief  is  that  it  signifies  red-cock,  like  the 
Gaelic  'Coilleach  Ruadh,'  referring  to  the  reddish 
plumage  of  the  typical  bird.  This  view  has  not 
obtained  the  support  of  scholars  ;  but  it  is  borne  out 
by  the  fact  that  it  was  current  in  the  seventeenth 
century.  Thus  Ray  writes  :  '  The  Red  Game,  Lagopus 


6         NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

altera  Plinii,  an  Attagen  Aldrov.  In  the  north  of 
England  it  is  called  the  Gor-cock  and  Moor-cock,  the 
hen  the  More-hen,  the  brood  Gorfoivl.  Heath-cock  is 
also  a  name  common  to  this  with  the  precedent. 
Turner's  More-hen  is  the  female  of  the  precedent  or 
Blackcock.  Gor  in  the  north  of  England  signifies  red, 
so  the  Gor- Cock  is  the  red  cock,  &c.  For  the  under- 
standing and  exact  distinctions  of  these  names  we 
are  beholden  to  Mr.  Johnson,  of  Brignal,  in  Yorke- 
shire.' J 

The  prefix  '  gor  '  has  been  applied  to  some  other 
birds,  notably  to  the  great  black-backed  gull  and  to 
the  carrion  crow.  The  fishermen  of  the  Solway  Firth 
often  speak  of  the  great  black-backed  gull  as  the  '  gor 
maw.'  In  Oxfordshire,  as  Mr.  O.  V.  Aplin  tells  us, 
the  carrion  crow  is  still  recognised  as  a  '  gor-crow.' 
The  syllable  '  gor '  seems  in  these  two  instances  to  be 
identical  with  the  Saxon  gor  (carrion,  or  refuse),  and 
to  refer  to  the  fact  that  both  the  black-backed  gull  and 
carrion  crow  feed  upon  carrion.  Of  the  appropriate- 
ness of  the  prefix  in  these  cases  there  can  be  no 
question.  The  gull  preys  habitually  upon  such  fowl 
as  escape  wounded  from  the  wildfowler,  and  often 
attacks  a  sickly  lamb.  The  carrion  crow  is  equally  a 
foul  feeder.  But  with  regard  to  grouse,  I  think  that 

1   The  Ornithology  of  Francis  Wilhtghby,  p.  23. 


IN  PRAISE   OF   THE    GROUSE 


1  gor '  must  refer  to  the  red  plumage  of  the  bird,  when- 
soever it  may  have  been  imported. 

Macgillivray  was  fond  of  coining  new  names  for 
English  birds,  and  he  thought  the  grouse  should  be 
designated  the  red  ptarmigan.  The  Gaelic  names 
usually  applied  to  this  species  are  Coilleach  Fraoich= 
the  heather-cock,  and  Cearc  Fhraoich=the  heather- 
hen.  It  is  also  called  Ian  Fraoich=the  heather-bird. 
The  term  most  employed,  at  any  rate  in  Skye,  is  the 
Cearc  Fhraoich. 

The  red  grouse  is  not  limited  in  its  distribution 
to  the  mainland  of  Scotland.  Wherever  the  common 
ling  or  heather  grows  most  rapidly  and  richly,  there 
grouse  naturally  most  abound.  The  islands  of 
Scotland  are  generally  inferior  to  the  mainland  as 
regards  their  properties  for  growing  heather  in  the 
dense  profusion  which  the  grouse  loves  to  find.  In 
Skye,  for  instance,  the  birds  are  scattered  over  a  wider 
area  than  on  a  good  Perthshire  moor  ;  in  other  words, 
they  have  to  range  more  widely  in  search  of  food. 
Of  course,  we  can  assist  nature  considerably  by  infus- 
ing fresh  blood  into  our  insular  races.  I  have  not 
tried  turning  down  birds  in  Skye  for  more  than  two 
seasons,  and  cannot,  therefore,  speak  of,  with  certainty, 
local  results  ;  but  I  am  assured  that  the  introduction 
of  Yorkshire  grouse  into  Rum  has  greatly  increased 


8         NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 


the  bags  obtained  on  that  magnificent  island.  Messrs. 
Harvie  Brown  and  Buckley  describe  the  grouse  of  the 
Lews  as  deteriorating  in  size,  and  as  tending  to  die 
out,  for  which  they  specially  blame  in-breeding,  an 
evil  easily  remedied,  if  desired.  I  believe,  myself,  that 
the  fault  lies  in  the  want  of  zeal  of  the  proprietors, 
who  allow  enormous  numbers  of  hooded  crows  to 
exist  and  to  plunder  their  moors.  In  Skye  we  per- 
sistently trap  and  poison  these  arch  robbers,  but  we 
cannot  get  entirely  rid  of  them,  because  a  fresh 
supply  is  always  forthcoming  from  the  Long  Island. 
Farther  north,  there  are  plenty  of  grouse  in  the 
Orkneys,  not  upon  all  the  islands  of  the  group,  but 
upon  the  majority — viz.  on  the  mainland,  Hoy,  Burray, 
Flotta,  Fara,  Risa  Little,  Cava,  Eday  and  Rousay. 
Stragglers  occasionally  visit  the  other  islands  in  the 
autumn  and  winter  months.  But  there  are  no  grouse 
in  the  Shetlands.  There  never  were  any  there  until 
they  were  introduced.  Their  first  introduction  must 
date  back  two  hundred  years,  since  Brand  tells  us,  in 
1701, 'that  grouse  had  previously  been  introduced  into 
Shetland,  but  could  not  live  there.  They  were 
numerous  even  then  in  Orkney,  and  the  Fair  Island 
peregrines  used  to  visit  Orkney  to  procure  the  moor-fowl 
as  food  for  their  young.  Of  late  years,  several  efforts 
have  been  made  to  naturalise  grouse  in  Shetland  ;  but 


IN  PRAISE   OF   THE   GROUSE 


the  experiments  appear  to  have  been  conducted  care- 
lessly, and  have,  so  far,  proved  useless.  It  was  about 
the  year  1870  that  Mr.  D.  D.  Black,  of  Kergord, 
endeavoured  to  establish  grouse  at  the  head  of 
Weisdale  Voe.  A  quantity  of  trees  were  planted  at 
the  same  time  to  afford  shelter  to  the  birds  ;  but  the 
situation  did  not  suit  the  Norway  firs,  and  they  con- 
sequently perished.  At  last  one  pair  of  grouse  nested, 
however,  because  three  young  birds  were  caught  upon 
Sandness  Hill  by  a  woman  who  carried  them  to  Dr. 
Scott,  of  Melmby.  In  1882,  Mr.  John  Harrison  of 
Windhouse,  in  Yell,  procured  upwards  of  forty  grouse 
from  Scotland  for  the  purpose  of  turning  down  ;  but, 
unhappily,  almost  all  the  consignment  perished  on 
the  way,  and  only  a  single  pair  of  birds  was  set  free  at 
their  destination.  These  birds  nested,  and  were  joined 
in  1885  by  five  additional  pairs.  They  lingered  for  some 
time  on  Yell,  and  tenanted  the  island  in  1890.  In  Unst 
a  female  grouse  nested  in  1886,  but  the  eggs  proved 
unfertile,  and  the  species  became  locally  extinct.  Mr. 
Harold  Raeburn,  to  whom  I  am  indebted  for  my  present 
information,  considers  that  there  is  no  reason  why 
grouse  should  not  become  perfectly  well  established 
in  Shetland,  if  sufficient  trouble  were  bestowed  upon 
the  experiment.  The  birds  would  have  to  face  some 
drawbacks  here  as  elsewhere  ;  e.g.  the  dense  popula- 


io       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 


tion,  the  wet  and  stormy  springs,  and  the  sinful 
custom  of  burning  heather  all  over  instead  of  in  suit- 
able strips.  Another  difficulty  in  Shetland,  as  in 
very  many  places,  is  the  great  abundance  of  the 
hooded  crow  and  other  vermin.  Mr.  Raeburn  thinks 
that  the  peninsula  of  Roness  on  the  mainland  would 
suit  grouse  particularly  well.  What  is  required,  if 
grouse  are  to  become  naturalised  in  Shetland,  is  the 
united  effort  of  the  various  proprietors,  who  should 
join  together  in  extirpating  vermin,  and  turn  down 
some  hundreds  of  grouse  for  two  or  three  successive 
seasons.  I  have  no  great  faith,  myself,  in  the  virtue 
of  experiments  carried  out  on  a  small  scale  ;  because 
introduced  grouse  would  have,  in  the  first  instance,  to 
fight  stoutly  for  existence. 

On  the  other  hand,  a  well-considered  scheme, 
accompanied  by  remedial  measures  for  the  protection 
of  heather,  would  probably  result  in  material  benefit 
to  the  Northern  Isles.  Upon  the  Scottish  mainland 
the  grouse  enjoys  a  general  distribution,  ranging  freely 
over  elevated  moorlands  as  well  as  those  situated  in 
low-lying  districts.  A  wonderful  region  of  Scotland  is 
that  which  lies  between  the  high  mountains  and  the 
western  seas,  bathed  in  a  flood  of  thin  mist  or  de- 
corated with  a  variety  of  soft  and  soothing  tints, 
marvellous  reds  and  browns  and  greys  mingling  to- 


IN  PRAISE   OF   THE    GROUSE 


gether  in  glorious  harmony.  To  lie  upon  an  open 
shelf  of  rock,  from  which  the  sun  has  newly  drawn 
the  early  dew,  to  listen  silently,  and  drink  in  at  leisure, 
all  unnoticed,  the  cries  of  the  wild  population  that 
hold  their  own  among  the  pathless  hills,  this  for  the 
naturalist  is  a  feast  of  intellect.  Now  it  is  an  old  male 
capercailzie  whose  fine  bold  form  appears  suddenly 
upon  the  scene,  as  he  speeds  through  the  top  of  a 
cluster  of  Scotch  firs,  having  been  rudely  startled  from 
his  favourite  perch  by  some  passer-by.  Anon,  a  restless 
curlew  sweeps  into  the  field  of  the  binoculars,  and  pro- 
ceeds to  wheel  in  agitation  above  the  rushy  ground  in 
which  her  progeny  are  skulking,  quaint  little  downy 
morsels  with  their  curious,  straightened  bills.  A  wary  old 
blackcock  comes  speeding  along  the  hill  in  full  view 
of  us,  and  a  skein  of  wild  duck  appear  circling  over- 
head, wheeling  round  and  round  at  a  vast  height  from 
the  earth.  If  we  lingered  a  few  minutes  longer,  we 
should  surely  be  visited  by  a  blue  merlin,  or,  perhaps, 
a  tercel  might  favour  us  with  a  morning  call.  Much 
of  the  charm  with  which  the  hills  are  invested  is  due 
to  the  delicious  uncertainty  as  to  what  we  may  or  may 
not  meet  with  among  the  rocks  and  heather  of  the 
lonelier  glens  ;  and  I,  for  one,  am  obliged  to  confess 
that  our  national  scenery  exercises  a  stronger  spell 
over  my  imagination  than  the  beauties  of  Switzerland 


12        NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  GROUSE 

or  the  gloomy  grandeur  of  the  fiords  of  Western  Nor- 
way. The  grouse  is  pre-eminently  bound  up  with  our 
happiest  memories  of  home  scenery.  Of  course,  the 
wealthy  men  among  us  can  go  to  Spitzbergen  and 
enjoy  good  sport  with  a  form  of  ptarmigan  which  Mr. 
Abel  Chapman  considers  to  be  almost  identical  with 
the  red  grouse  ;  or  they  may  visit  Northern  Europe 
and  kill  willow  grouse  to  their  heart's  content ;  but 
the  grouse  holds  a  unique  position  in  the  affections  of 
most  British  sportsmen  ;  all  the  more,  perhaps,  since 
it  is  essentially  an  insular  production,  and  cannot  be 
met  with  out  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  except, 
indeed,  under  certain  artificial  conditions. 

I  do  not  know  anything  of  Irish  moors  at  first 
hand,  never  having  visited  Ireland  ;  but  the  north  of 
England  affords  as  fine  a  race  of  grouse  as  can  be 
found  anywhere  in  the  Northern  kingdom.  The  Pen- 
nine range,  especially,  with  its  infinite  number  of  out- 
lying spurs,  affords  an  enormous  area  for  grouse  to 
range  over,  and  possesses  the  advantage  of  being 
near  to  the  metropolis.  Many  quiet  nooks  of  exquisite 
beauty  are  to  be  found  among  the  grouse  moors  of 
Yorkshire  and  of  Westmoreland.  Farther  south,  the 
grouse  manages  to  exist  in  close  proximity  to  some  of 
the  grimy  manufacturing  towns  of  Lancashire.  The 
account  of  the  habits  of  the  red  arouse  furnished 


IN  PRAISE   OF   THE   GROUSE  13 


by  Mr.  Seebohm  to  Dresser's  '  Birds  of  Europe '  was 
based  upon  his  study  of  the  species  in  Derbyshire. 
Farther  south  than  this  it  seems  useless  to  look  for 
grouse,  unless  we  turn  aside  into  little  Wales,  which  is 
not  famous  for  the  quality  of  bags  obtained  upon  the 
Twelfth,  though  the  species  appears  to  exist  in  most 
suitable  places  in  the  Principality.     It  would  be  a 
mistake,  however,  to  suppose  that  the  grouse  cannot 
thrive  at  a  distance  from  the  great  lonely  moorlands 
which  constitute  its  natural  home.     I  believe  that  the 
species  could  be  naturalised  in  any  part  of  Britain, 
provided  the  conditions  of  life  proved  suitable.     The 
experiments  that  have  been  made  in  Norfolk,  although 
carried  out  on  a  small  scale,  are  full  of  encouragement. 
Mr.  J.  H.  Gurney  tells  me  that  Mr.  J.  Hardcastle 
turned  some  grouse  out  on  Holt  Heath  nearly  twenty 
years  ago,  but  that  they  have  long  since  vanished. 
Better  results  have  been  obtained  at  Sandringham. 
'  Some  fourteen  years  ago,'  writes  Mr.  Jackson,  the 
head  keeper,   'thirty  brace  were  turned  down,  and 
the  following  year  another  thirty  brace.     The  experi- 
ment was  not  made  with  a  view  to  add  to  the  shooting, 
but  for  the  pleasure  of  hearing  and  seeing  the  birds  on 
the  estate.     I  found  that  they  nested  and  reared  their 
young  quite  satisfactorily,  but  that  they  decreased  in 
number  between  the  breeding  seasons — a  fact  which 


14        NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

was  doubtless  due  to  their  straying  off  our  ground. 
They  have  an  area  of  about  1,200  or  1,500  acres  of 
heather,  which  is  for  the  most  part  surrounded  by 
grazing  land.  The  stock  is  now  reduced  to  about 
eight  or  ten  brace.'  It  must  be  the  wish  of  all  good 
sportsmen  to  see  such  experiments  as  that  just  de- 
scribed meet  with  an  enlarged  success.  We  do  not 
take  as  much  pains  to  improve  our  sport  at  home  as 
we  might.  I  wonder,  for  example,  that  landowners 
do  not  unite  to  turn  down  gadwall  and  other  fowl  all 
over  the  country,  and  thus  convert  our  ponds  and 
rivers  into  a  national  preserve  of  wildfowl.  There  are 
thousands  of  places  that  would  hold  a  brace  of  teal  or 
a  few  pairs  of  pintail,  if  only  they  were  planted  with 
large  beds  of  rushes  and  well  preserved.  As  for  the 
grouse,  its  good  qualities  have  begun  to  attract  atten- 
tion among  our  Continental  neighbours.  The  pioneer 
was  Baron  Dickson,  who  established  red  grouse  in 
Sweden  between  twenty  and  thirty  years  ago.  It  is 
now  reported  that  the  Belgian  Government  intends  to 
people  the  sandy  heaths  of  that  country  with  drafts  of 
red  grouse. 

Already  the  example  of  Baron  Dickson  has  been 
emulated  by  Count  Kniphausen,  who  owns  a  property 
in  East  Friesland,  and  has  given  the  following  account 
of  his  experiment :  '  In  the  autumn  of  1891  I  ordered 


IN  PRAISE    OF   THE    GROUSE 


from  a  game  dealer  in  England  five  pairs  of  live  grouse 
for  my  game  preserves  near  Wittmund  in  East  Fries- 
land,  as  an  experiment  in  the  way  of  naturalising  this 
foreign  game  bird  with  us.  My  prospects  regarding 
this  attempt  did  not  appear  to  me  unpromising,  as  I 
could  offer  the  birds  on  my  sporting  domain  freedom 
from  disturbance,  plenty  of  water,  heather,  and  various 
berry-bearing  plants,  and  patches  of  buckwheat,  to 
all  of  which  these  birds  are  said  to  be  partial.  The 
grouse  were  transported  across  the  North  Sea  in 
November.  They  were  sent  from  Scotland  via  London 
and  Flushing,  the  consequence  of  which  was  that,  by 
reason  of  the  long  railway  journeys,  the  birds  suffered 
very  much,  and  succumbed,  chiefly,  I  fear,  from  want 
of  water — at  any  rate,  I  only  received  one  pair  alive 
on  their  arrival  at  their  destination.  I  had  taken  pains 
beforehand  to  erect  for  them,  in  a  thicket,  an  aviary 
of  wire  netting,  with  canvas  overhead,  provided  plenti- 
fully with  water  and  buckwheat,  and  with  the  wire 
netting  stuck  full  of  sprigs  of  heather,  partly  so  that 
they  might  feel  themselves  more  hidden,  but  chiefly 
because  I  understand  that  heather  tops  are  their  chief 
source  of  nourishment.  After  a  few  days'  rest  I  had 
one  of  the  sides  of  the  inclosure  raised,  so  that  the 
grouse  might  go  out  of  their  own  accord.  In  the 
spring  of  1893  I  was  rewarded  by  coming  across  the 


1 6       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

cock  grouse  in  the  company  of  a  blackcock  on  my 
preserve,  and  had  the  pleasure,  of  listening  to  his  call. 
It  also  came  to  my  knowledge  that  the  hen  was  alive, 
and  that  she  had  incubated  for  about  fourteen  days, 
though  too  late  in  the  year,  for  it  was  during  the 
harvesting  of  the  buckwheat  that  she  was  disturbed 
by  the  mowers.  The  cock  and  hen  both  flew  away, 
and  the  hen,  alas  !  never  sought  her  nest  again,  The 
eggs,  fourteen  in  number,  I  have  preserved.  This 
delightful  discovery,  that  a  pair  of  grouse  had  lived 
all  but  two  years  on  my  property,  and  had  even  made 
a  good  attempt  to  rear  a  brood,  made  me  resolve  to 
go  on  with  my  experiments.  The  dealer  to  whom  I 
addressed  myself  undertook,  for  twenty  marks  the 
pair,  to  deliver  ten  brace  of  grouse  to  me ;  and  we 
came  to  an  understanding  that  he  should  send  them 
at  my  cost  from  Hull  to  Bremen,  that  he  should 
undertake  their  being  carefully  secured  in  boxes  made 
expressly  for  the  purpose,  and  that  he  should  not  be 
bound  to  make  good  any  losses  that  might  occur. 
Messrs.  Weltmann,  in  Hull,  who  forward  goods  for 
the  North  German  Lloyd's  Company,  kindly  under- 
took the  delivery  of  them,  and  promised  to  see  that 
they  did  not  want  for  food  or  water  on  their  thirty 
hours'  sea  voyage;  and  thus,  to  my  joy,  my  gamekeeper, 
whom  I  had  sent  to  Bremen  to  fetch  the  birds,  was 


IN  PXAISE   OF   THE   GKOUSE  17 

enabled  to  deliver  to  me  the  whole  lot  of  seven  brace 
(more  were  not  to  be  had  at  the  time). 

'  The  birds  this  time  flew  strongly  when  let  out  in 
their  inclosure,  but  did  not  hurt  themselves,  owing 
to  the  canvas  spread  over  the  top.  My  sporting 
neighbours  all  belong  to  the  Prussian  and  Oldenburg 
Forest  and  Moor  Game  Preservation  Societies,  to 
both  of  which  I  successfully  applied,  and  they  have, 
as  before  on  the  introduction  of  black-game,  promised 
that  for  some  years  to  come  the  protection  of  these 
grouse  shall  be  looked  upon  by  them  as  a  strict  duty. 
So  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  this  attempt  to  naturalise 
them  in  the  plains  of  North- West  Germany  may  suc- 
ceed, as  it  did  with  the  black-game,  which  had  for 
many  a  long  year  been  extinct  there.' 

And  here  I  may  remark  that,  as  the  red  grouse  is 
systematically  netted  in  large  numbers  in  the  north  of 
•England,  it  should  be  easy  enough  for  any  of  our 
Continental  neighbours  to  repeat  the  experiment  just 
described  on  a  larger  scale.  Any  such  endeavour  to 
naturalise  the  red  grouse  abroad  should  be  extended 
over  several  seasons,  and  care  should  be  taken  to 
supply  an  adequate  number  of  female  birds.  The 
latter  are  rather  less  hardy  than  the  opposite  sex,  and 
are  consequently  more  liable  to  perish  on  the  journey 
than  their  male  companions. 


i8       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE    GROUSE 


It  has  been  suggested  that  the  eggs  of  the  grouse 
could  be  exported  to  other  countries.  No  doubt 
Count  Kniphausen  might  very  well  have  tried  the 
experiment  of  introducing  grouse  eggs  into  the  nests 
of  greyhens.  The  eggs  could  be  obtained  in  York- 
shire, and  carried  by  water  to  their  destination  without 
incurring  much  risk.  But  very  few  sportsmen  would 
allow  eggs  to  be  lifted  on  their  moors,  and  any  traf- 
ficking in  the  eggs  of  game  birds  gives  an  unfortunate 
stimulus  to  poaching  practices.  On  the  other  hand, 
live  grouse  might  safely  be  sent  very  long  distances  if 
packed  in  roomy  cages  and  not  overcrowded.  The 
tops  of  the  cages  should  be  lined  with  canvas,  so  that 
the  birds  could  not  injure  their  heads  by  flying  up- 
wards. I  remember  a  charming  sand  grouse  which 
became  extremely  domesticated  and  familiar  with  the 
members  of  the  household  to  which  it  belonged.  It 
was  fearful,  however,  of  strangers,  and  when  alarmed 
the  poor  bird  almost  always  started  upwards  and 
struck  the  wooden  roof  of  the  cage.  I  mention  this 
practical  point,  because  I  have  found  by  experience 
that,  obvious  as  it  seems  to  be,  it  is  in  fact  generally 
disregarded  by  those  persons  who  send  live  grouse 
about  the  country.  I  feel  sure  that  its  recognition 
would  materially  reduce  the  risks  of  travelling. 


CHAPTER  II 

THE  MANNERS  OF  THE  GROUSE 

THE  anxious  time  for  those  of  us  who  happen  to 
possess  moors,  or  even  to  have  leased  those  of  others, 
arrives  in  the  spring  of  the  year,  when  the  grouse,  that 
have  long  since  paired  off  with  their  respective  mates, 
begin  to  occupy  their  stations  for  the  summer  and  to 
go  to  nest.  Without  wishing  to  dogmatise  too  nicely, 
it  is  fair  to  say  that  almost  every  bird  upon  the  moor 
occupies  its  peculiar  station  for  many  successive 
years,  unless,  of  course,  interfered  with  by  human 
agency.  It  has  been  said,  for  example,  that  if  an 
ornithologist  wishes  to  explore  any  district  in  Lap- 
land in  search  of  the  eggs  of  the  rarer  species,  he 
should  spend  the  time  of  a  preliminary  expedition  in 
marking  down  the  precise  situations  which  each  pair 
of  any  one  species  choose  to  occupy.  We  can  all  of 
us  see  the  force  of  this  remark  even  at  home.  Season 
after  season  witnesses  to  the  faithfulness  with  which 
the  curlew  and  its  mate  return  to  a  long  and  desolate 

c  2 


20       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF  THE   GROUSE 

strip  of  broken  moorland  lying  under  the  shadow  of 
the  Coolin  Hills  ;  the  eggs  are  almost  always  laid 
about  the  same  spot,  and  generation  after  generation 
of  downy  chicks  enter  into  existence  on  the  same 
patch  of  heather  and  rough  grass.  It  is  the  same 
with  the  ptarmigan  that  nestles  up  in  the  lonely 
corrie  above  Sligachan.  I  have  seen  the  nests  of 
two  seasons  placed  side  by  side  on  a  slope  of  green 
turf,  screened  from  observation  by  the  same  con- 
venient boulders  of  rock.  Indeed,  I  could  tell  you 
where  to  find  the  nest  of  the  greenshank  and  many 
another  rare  bird,  knowing  from  long  intimacy  with 
their  haunts  precisely  the  positions  that  these  birds 
are  likely  to  occupy  in  successive  seasons.  This 
principle  applies  as  truly  to  the  red  grouse  as  to 
other  birds,  making  allowance  for  the  destruction  of 
old  females  in  the  shooting  season.  On  my  own 
ground,  at  any  rate,  I  have  a  very  good  idea  where 
to  look  for  grouse  nests,  although  I  never  search  for 
them  intentionally,  but  only  stumble  upon  them  inci- 
dentally. No  good  sportsman  would  wish  to  organise 
a  hunt  for  grouse  nests.  The  grouse  is  a  very  par- 
ticular bird,  and  often  deserts  her  eggs  if  suddenly 
startled  from  her  charge.  Of  course,  there  are  many 
hen  grouse  which  would  rather  allow  themselves  to  be 
trodden  upon  than  leave  their  eggs,  and  their  faithful- 


THE  MANNERS  OF  THE  GROUSE 


ness  to  maternal  duties  is  touching  in  its  way.  But 
the  grouse  is  naturally  a  shy,  timid  creature,  and  will 
not  willingly  brook  much  interference.  A  grouse 
moor  can  hardly  be  kept  too  quiet  in  the  breeding 
season.  That  is  the  reason  why  proprietors  object  so 
strongly  to  the  intrusion  of  parties  of  tourists  being 
forced  upon  them  by  any  Radical  legislation.  Strangers 
do  not,  of  course,  intend  the  least  in  the  world  to  do 
us  any  harm,  but  in  point  of  fact  they  are  pretty  cer- 
tain to  scare  some  birds  badly,  and  thus  to  diminish 
the  supply  of  chicks  hatched  out.  Some  people  may 
suggest  that  grouse  breed  so  very  early  that  the  young 
are  hatched  long  before  the  tourist  season.  The 
grouse  is  an  early  breeding  bird  in  the  north  of 
England,  and  often  begins  to  lay  eggs  during  the 
month  of  March  if  the  season  happens  to  be  warm 
and  genial.  In  the  north  of  Scotland  incubation  is 
much  later.  In  the  island  of  Skye,  April  24  is  a  de- 
cidedly early  date  for  a  full  clutch  of  grouse  eggs. 

May  and  June  are  the  two  months  in  which  the 
majority  of  grouse  hens  go  to  nest.  Although  most 
of  us  have  accustomed  ourselves  to  speak  of  grouse 
nests,  the  expression  is  hardly  exact,  for  the  eggs  are 
deposited  in  a  mere  scratching,  scantily  lined  with  a 
few  dry  stems  of  grass  or  twigs  of  heather.  Some  of 
the  text-books,  it  is  true,  speak  of  feathers  being  used 


22       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE    GROUSE 


to  line  the  nests  of  grouse,  but  I  believe  that  any 
feathers  found  in  a  grouse's  nest  have  been  accident- 
ally dropped  by  the  old  bird.  The  nest  is  very  often 
placed  near  a  little  burn,  generally  under  the  shelter 
of  a  tuft  of  heather.  I  have  occasionally  seen  per- 
fectly open  nests,  but  they  are  very  liable  to  be 
flooded.  The  grouse  is  one  of  the  hardiest  birds  in 
existence,  and  frequently  continues  to  sit  upon  her  eggs 
after  the  nest  has  filled  with  water  ;  but  the  eggs  are 
delicate,  and  are  generally  addled  by  such  unfortunate 
immersion,  notwithstanding  the  devotion  exhibited 
by  the  old  hen.  It  is  a  fallacy  to  suppose  that  grouse 
like  to  nest  in  very  old  heather.  As  a  matter  of  fact 
they  prefer  younger  plants  as  cover,  choosing  to  avail 
themselves  of  the  shelter  of  well-grown  but  not  really 
old  ling. 

As  to  the  number  of  eggs  usually  laid  by  grouse, 
my  belief  is  that  seven  and  eight  are  the  numbers 
which  occur  most  frequently  Five  is  the  smallest 
number  that  I  have  seen  incubated,  nor  have  I  ever 
seen  more  than  a  dozen  eggs  in  one  nest.  Indeed,  to 
find  more  than  ten  eggs  in  a  nest  is  quite  an  excep- 
tional event,  although  probably  most  sportsmen  have 
at  one  time  or  another  come  across  large  coveys  of 
young  birds.  It  often  happens,  however,  that  one  or 
more  eggs  prove  unfertile.  There  are  records  of  as 


THE  MANNERS   OF   THE   GROUSE  23 

many  as  seventeen  eggs  being  found  in  a  single  grouse 
nest,  but  I  imagine  that  two  hen  birds  had  laid  together. 
Mr.  Henry  Seebohm  is  perhaps  as  high  an  authority 
upon  the  eggs  of  British  birds  as  any  member  of  the 
B.O.U.  He  says  that  he  has  not  found  much  variation 
in  the  size  of  eggs  of  the  grouse.  '  The  ground-colour 
of  the  eggs  of  the  grouse  is  usually  a  pale  olive, 
spotted  and  blotched  all  over  with  dark  red-brown. 
The  spots  are  frequently  so  confluent  as  almost  to 
conceal  the  ground-colour.  In  fresh-laid  eggs  the 
brown  is  often  very  red,  in  some  instances  almost 
approaching  crimson.  It  appears  to  darken  as  it 
thoroughly  dries,  and  sometimes  almost  approaches 
black.  When  fresh  laid  the  colour  is  not  very  fast, 
and  before  the  eggs  are  hatched  the  beauty  of  the 
original  colouring  is  generally  very  much  lessened  by 
large  spots  coming  off  altogether,  no  doubt  from  the 
friction  of  the  feathers  when  the  bird  is  sitting.  If 
the  weather  is  wet  when  the  bird  begins  to  sit  this  is 
much  more  the  case.  When  the  colour  has  once 
become  thoroughly  dry  it  will  bear  washing  in  water 
without  injury.  The  colour  of  the  eggs  is  admirably 
adapted  for  the  purpose  of  concealment  from  the 
prying  eyes  of  rooks,  crows,  and  birds  of  prey,  being 
very  much  like  the  mixture  of  moss,  lichens,  and  peat 
where  they  are  laid.  Most  of  the  eggs  laid  come  to 


24       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

maturity.  I  once  asked  a  gamekeeper  to  watch  half 
a  dozen  nests  which  were  near  his  house.  He  told 
me  that  out  of  forty-nine  eggs,  he  counted  forty-seven 
chicken  grouse.  As  soon  as  the  young  are  hatched, 
especially  in  dry  seasons,  the  hen  takes  her  brood 
down  to  the  more  swampy  parts  of  the  moor.'  It  will 
be  obvious  to  most  people  that  the  proportion  of  eggs 
that  hatch  out  depends  very  much  on  the  rainfall. 
Still  more  does  this  affect  the  tiny  grouse  during  the 
first  few  days  of  their  existence.  If  the  weather  is 
dry  and  sunny,  the  little  fellows  grow  rapidly  and  soon 
become  fairly  independent,  learning  to  peck  at  small 
caterpillars,  flies,  and  other  insects.  If  heavy  showers 
of  rain  arrive  at  the  critical  time  the  number  of  young 
grouse  that  perish  is  often  very  considerable,  for,  hardy 
as  they  eventually  become,  they  are  extremely  tender 
during  the  first  days  of  their  existence.  Gradually 
the  cheepers  grow  stronger,  and  learn  to  forage  on 
their  own  account.  They  do  best  in  fairly  dry  seasons, 
provided  always  that  they  have  a  good  supply  of  water 
easily  accessible.  Should  this  be  scarce,  the  chicks 
are  sadly  liable  to  seek  to  satisfy  their  thirst  in  deep 
ditches  and  drains,  out  of  which  they  cannot  easily 
make  their  escape. 

Of  course  it  is  impossible  to  guard  against  such 
misfortunes.     Happily  the  hen   grouse   is  a  careful 


THE  MANNERS  OF   THE   GROUSE  25 

parent  ;  indeed,  both  the  male  and  female  birds  take 
every  care  of  their  young  broods. 

The  grouse  depends  chiefly  upon  heather  for  its 
subsistence,  feeding  on  the  common  ling  (Calluna 
vulgaris)  and  also  on  the  fine-leaved  heath  (Erica 
rinerea),  breaking  off  the  fresh  tips  of  the  twigs,  which 
are  reduced  to  pulp  by  the  action  of  the  gizzard, 
assisted  by  fine  fragments  of  quartz  and  pebbles  intro- 
duced for  the  purpose  of  aiding  the  action  of  the  latter 
in  comminuting  the  food.  Grouse  are  partial  to 
the  berries  of  both  the  bilberry  and  cranberry. 
Clover  leaves  have  also  an  attraction  for  them. 
Occasionally  they  eat  the  polypody,  of  which  the 
pheasant  is  also  fond.  In  severe  weather  grouse 
find  that  even  hips  help  to  support  existence.  Joseph 
Walton  of  Garrigill  tells  me  that  very  small  grouse 
feed  eagerly  on  caterpillars,  a  fact  which  he  has  verified 
by  dissection. 

In  the  fall  of  the  year  grouse  often  shift  their 
quarters  from  the  tops  of  the  hills,  in  order  to  feast 
upon  the  stocks  of  oats  upon  the  shepherd's  croft  or 
the  minister's  glebe.  Some  birds  take  very  kindly  to 
the  stubble.  In  some  parts  of  Perthshire  it  is  quite  a 
common  event  to  find  a  covey  of  grouse  haunting  a 
favourite  field  for  many  successive  weeks,  and  the 
birds  grow  heavy  upon  the  diet  they  thus  obtain, 


26        NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

though  they  are  considered  rather  to  deteriorate  in 
flavour.  It  is  this  readiness  to  feed  upon  grain  which 
makes  it  possible  to  keep  grouse  in  confinement,  or  at 
any  rate  in  a  state  of  semi-captivity.  Some  few  years 
ago,  when  the  sand  grouse  were  visiting  England,  I  was 
told  one  day  that  a  sand  grouse  in  the  possession 
of  a  neighbour  had  nested  and  laid  some  eggs.  On 
inquiry  we  found  that  the  bird,  which  had  nested  in 
the  house  of  its  owner,  was  a  tame  red  grouse,  which 
had  voluntarily  begun  to  incubate.  No  instance  of 
the  grouse  rearing  its  young  in  captivity  has  come 
under  my  notice  hitherto,  although  some  half-dozen 
records  of  the  fact  appear  to  be  authenticated.  The 
late  Mr.  Osborne,  for  example,  kept  a  number  of 
grouse  in  confinement  for  several  years,  and  on  one 
occasion  a  pair  bred  and  hatched  out  five  healthy 
chicks.  Their  owner  used  to  walk  many  miles  from 
Wick  to  fetch  the  tender  heather  shoots  for  the  old 
and  young  grouse  which  had  hatched  out  within  his 
walls  in  the  town.1 

It  is  remarkable  that  so  shy  and  retiring  a  bird 
as  the  red  grouse  should  become  extremely  bold  and 
adventurous  under  artificial  conditions,  yet  of  this 
there  can  be  no  possible  doubt.  Mr.  W.  Oxenden 
Hammond  tells  us  of  a  red  grouse  which  was  taken  to 
1  Fauna  of  Sutherland  and  CaitJmess,  p.  205. 


THE  MANNERS  OF   THE   GROUSE  27 


Kent  from  a  Yorkshire  moor,  and  lived  for  several 
years  in  a  cage  in  the  hall  of  a  country  house.  '  This 
was  an  old  cock  bird,  and  its  constant  call  in  the 
morning  used  to  echo  through  the  house.'  '  A  pleas- 
ing description  of  the  tameness  of  a  covey  of  grouse 
was  contributed  to  the  '  Field  '  of  February  5, 1887,  by 
a  correspondent  who  signed  his  article  with  the  letter 
'  X.'  '  Now  the  history  of  these  tame  birds  is  as 
follows  :  A  friend  of  mine — one  who  delights  in  all 
matters  relating  to  the  habits  of  wild  birds,  and,  what 
is  more,  is  thoroughly  versed  in  the  subject— had  a 
nest  of  grouse  eggs  hatched  out  under  a  hen — this  on 
the  same  ground  where  his  young  pheasants  were 
being  reared.  When  first  out  of  the  egg  the  young 
grouse  showed  a  disposition  to  stray  somewhat  too 
far  from  the  maternal  coop  ;  but  this  little  difficulty 
was  easily  overcome  by  the  intelligent  keeper.  At 
some  distance  a  wire  netting  was  placed  round  the 
coop.  In  a  very  short  time  this  was  removed ; 
but  to  show  the  result  of  habit  and  training  on 
birds,  it  was  found  that  the  young  ones  circled  round 
much  about  the  place  where  the  wire  netting  had 
stood. 

'  Time  went  on,  and  they  soon  settled  into  the 
habits  of  their  pheasant  companions.     Some  six  or 

1  Zoologist,  1885,  p.  183. 


28       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE    GROUSE 


seven  grew  up,  and  about  October  the  cock  birds  seem 
to  have  made  advances  to  the  hens,  and  their  overtures 
doubtless  being  taken  by  the  latter  as  inopportune — out 
of  season — they  modestly  levanted.  There  remained 
three  cocks,  all  in  splendid  plumage  and  condition, 
feeding,  be  it  remembered,  entirely  on  pheasants'  food 
and  what  they  could  pick  up  about  the  house.  One  of 
the  birds  remained  in  the  corner  of  the  field  where 
the  coop  had  stood,  taking  possession  of  it  for  himself. 
Here  at  all  times  he  was  to  be  seen  ready  to  dispute 
his  ground  with  anyone  passing  near  it.  Usually  he 
challenged  with  a  call,  and  then,  if  approached,  he 
was  ready  either  for  a  fight  or  to  be  fed,  or  both — any- 
thing that  suited  the  whim  of  the  intruder.  One  day, 
when  I  was  giving  some  maize  to  my  friend,  the  keeper 
came  up,  and  going  on  all  fours,  began  throwing  grass 
in  the  face  of  the  bird.  At  once  the  grouse  responded 
to  the  challenge  by  flying  at  him,  coming  up  sideways, 
and  using  his  spurs.  The  bird  allowed  itself  repeatedly 
to  be  caught,  and  the  moment  he  was  liberated  re- 
turned again  and  again  to  the  unequal  combat.  More 
than  once  have  I  seen  this  same  bird  fly  across  from 
his  corner  and  join  us  when  shooting  on  the  opposite 
woodland  bank,  this  being  some  600  or  700  yards 
across  a  narrow  neck  of  sea  at  the  head  of  a  loch. 
My  friend's  dogs— retrievers  and  spaniels — knew  the 


THE  MANNERS   OF  THE   GROUSE  29 

bird  well,  and  paid  no  attention  to  him,  nor  did  he  to 
the  shots  that  were  fired  close  to  him.  But  not  so  my 
retriever.  He  began  by  thinking  it  was  his  manifest 
duty  to  bring  the  bird  to  me  ;  but,  on  being  duly 
warned,  and  on  seeing  the  grouse  trying  to  get  to  close 
quarters  to  ram  him,  so  to  speak,  with  his  spurs,  a 
feeling  of  alarm,  droll  to  see,  came  over  the  dog. 
Evidently  he  concluded  he  had  to  deal  with  some- 
thing quite  new  to  him,  possibly  a  demented  grouse. 
Another  day  I  fell  in  with  my  friend  a  mile  from  this 
spot,  and  having  two  dogs  with  me,  it  was  as  much  as 
I  could  do  to  beat  a  hasty  retreat  into  a  thick  wood, 
so  anxious  was  he  to  have  a  sparring  match  with  one 
or  other  of  the  dogs. 

'  This  bird  has  now  taken  up  his  quarters  close  to  a 
house,  a  mile  from  the  place  he  was  reared,  remaining 
just  as  tame,  and  coming  regularly  for  his  breakfast. 
The  two  others  remain  about  the  lodge,  in  the  court- 
yard, in  the  garden,  and  frequently  come  in  at  the 
servants'  dinner-time  to  pick  up  anything  that  may  be 
thrown  to  them.  They  have  induced  one  wild  bird 
to  come  down  off  the  moor,  and  this  bird  is  now 
fairly  tame — that  is  to  say,  he  will  let  one  get  within  a 
few  yards  of  him.  When,  by  the  way,  it  pleased 
Master  Grouse  to  join  us  out  shooting,  if  by  chance  a 
spaniel  came  suddenly  upon  him,  he  was  not  in  the 


30       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 


least  degree  disconcerted — he  would  simply  fly  on  to 
a  rock,  and  begin  crowing  at  the  dog.' 

While  the  willow  grouse  is  well  known  to  be  fond 
of  perching  in  trees,  its  British  congener  rarely  alights 
even  on  a  bush  except  when  forced  by  hunger  to  feed 
on  hips  in  snowy  weather.  Mr.  J.  G.  Millais  gives  a 
charming  account  of  a  Westmoreland  grouse  which 
was  hatched  and  reared  by  a  little  bantam.  '  Every 
evening  the  bantam  used  to  repair  to  a  large  beech 
tree  near  the  house,  in  which  she  was  in  the  habit  of 
roosting  when  unencumbered  by  family  cares.  So 
when  she  was  allowed  to  remain  out  for  the  night  her 
first  thought  was  to  make  for  her  old  perch,  to  which 
she  considered  the  youngster  was  perfectly  capable  of 
following,  as  he  could  now  fly  well.  The  latter,  after 
many  ineffectual  attempts  to  keep  on  his  legs,  was 
forced  to  sleep  on  the  ground  at  the  foot  of  the  tree, 
for  though  he  managed  to  get  up  to  the  perch,  his 
efforts  to  keep  there  were  quite  useless,  as  he  always 
fell  off  again,  either  backwards  or  forwards.  How- 
ever, in  the  course  of  time  practice  made  perfect,  and 
he  acquired  such  a  liking  for  sitting  on  the  trees  that 
he  was  often  afterwards  seen  in  the  daytime  flying 
from  branch  to  branch,  appearing  to  be  perfectly  at 
home.'  Mr.  Millais  adds  that  this  grouse  '  had  a  par- 
ticular affection  for  the  lawn-tennis  court,  and  when- 


THE  MANNERS  OF  THE   GROUSE  31 

ever  any  of  the  members  of  my  friend's  family  began 
to  play,  Mr.  Grouse  would  always  put  in  an  appear- 
ance, seeming  to  enjoy  the  fact  that  he  was  an 
obstructionist,  and  refusing  to  clear  off  unless  forcibly 
removed  and  shut  up  in  his  pen.  If  taken  to  the 
other  end  of  the  grounds  he  would  almost  imme- 
diately return  to  the  tennis  court.  Such  was  the  soci- 
ability of  his  disposition  that  he  had  absolutely  no 
sense  of  fear  at  the  report  of  firearms  ;  in  fact,  he 
would  frequently  follow  the  shooters  out  to  a  distance 
of  several  fields  from  the  house  before  he  would 
return  home,  satisfied  that  they  had  taken  their 
departure  for  the  whole  day,  so  that  it  would  be  of 
no  use  accompanying  them.  Every  night,  before 
retiring  to  roost  in  his  beech  tree,  he  would  take  long 
flights  round  and  round  the  house  and  village,  which 
was  close  by ;  and  in  the  course  of  one  of  his  evening 
rambles  he  espied  an  old  man  digging,  from  whom 
he  very  naturally  expected  he  would  obtain  some 
delicacy,  as  everyone  was  in  the  habit  of  giving  him 
something  to  eat ;  but  this  old  scoundrel  was  a 
stranger,  and  barbarously  despatched  the  confiding 
bird  with  his  spade.' l  Mr.  Millais  mentions  another 
tame  grouse,  which  lived  for  a  long  time  at  Guisachan, 
Lord  Tweedmouth's  place  in  Ross-shire.  '  After 
1  Game  Birds  and  Shooting  Sketches^  p.  50. 


32       NATURAL   HISTORY   OF   THE   GROUSE 

being  kept  for  several  years,  he  departed  as  usual  in 
spring  to  the  hills,  where  he  annually  assisted  in  the 
increase  of  the  stock,  but  did  not  return  to  the  house, 
as  was  his  wont,  during  the  following  winter.  He 
feared  neither  man  nor  beast,  and  became  great 
friends  with  a  certain  dog  in  the  house,  on  whose 
back  he  used  often  to  ride.  The  following  instance 
of  his  plucky  disposition  was  related  to  me  on  sepa- 
rate occasions  by  each  of  the  two  guns  who  were 
present  when  the  affair  occurred.  A  shooting  party 
were  beating  the  hillside  near  the  house,  when  a 
pointer  that  was  working  stood  to  birds,  which  even- 
tually rose,  and  some  were  killed  ;  but  as  the  dog  still 
held,  they  correctly  inferred  that  there  was  probably 
another  bird  left,  which  proved  to  be  the  case.  This 
happened  to  be  the  tame  grouse,  whose  presence  was 
quite  unexpected,  and  who  considered  being  pointed 
such  an  insult  that  when  the  unfortunate  dog  ap- 
proached near  enough  to  be  disagreeable,  he  flew  up 
and  attacked  it  so  blindly  that  he  was  with  difficulty 
rescued  from  its  jaws.' 

Cock  grouse,  in  spite  of  their  general  shyness,  are 
very  pugnacious  birds,  and  the  old  males  especially 
show  great  intolerance  of  any  strangers  that  venture 
to  intrude  upon  what  they  consider  their  own  proper 
domain.  A  Perthshire  keeper  tells  me  that  he  saw 


33 


two  male  grouse  engaged  in  combat ;  so  completely 
blinded  with  fury  were  the  birds  that  they  dashed 
against  the  wall  of  a  stone  building,  one  of  them  kill- 
ing himself  with  the  impetuosity  of  his  flight. 

Individuals  of  the  male  sex  appear  to  predominate 
in  most  birds,  and  I  have  no  doubt  myself  as  to  the 
desirability  of  sportsmen  endeavouring  to  shoot  the 
male  birds  hard.  Not  only  do  more  male  birds  reach 
maturity,  but  the  females  are  exposed  to  additional 
risks  in  the  breeding  season.  Mr.  D.  J.  Lamb  states 
that,  out  of  130  grouse  killed  near  Pitlochry  in  four 
days  in  1893,  as  many  as  120  were  cock  birds.1 
This,  of  course,  is  an  exceptional  incident,  but  it 
points  the  moral  that  cock  birds  should  not  be 
allowed  to  live  unpaired.  Otherwise  they  disturb 
the  breeding  couples,  and  become  a  nuisance  to 
the  grouse  moor.  Of  course,  birds  behave  very 
diversely  in  different  parts  of  the  country.  With 
us  in  Skye  the  family  parties  live  together  in  peace 
and  tranquillity  until  November,  and  rarely  pack 
before  the  end  of  that  month.  If  they  pack  in 
November  it  is  generally  in  consequence  of  bad 
weather.  On  the  other  hand,  the  grouse  of  the 
north  of  England  pack,  as  a  general  rule,  early  in 
the  season,  and  the  sexes  usually  separate.  Every 
1  Field,  September  19,  1893. 


34       NATURAL    HISTORY  OF  THE    GROUSE 

sportsman  knows  that  the  old  cock  birds  often  lie 
out  singly  in  the  heather  on  the  tops  of  the  hills, 
while  the  females  and  younger  males  are  shifting  in 
flocks  about  the  lower  ground. 

I  have  gradually  been  led  to  the  opinion  that  the 
custom  of  driving  the  moors  has  altered  the  habits 
of  grouse  enormously,  and  led  to  their  becoming 
far  more  gregarious  than  they  used  to  be.  The  men- 
tion of  grouse  driving  always  reminds  me  of  a  remark 
which  was  made  in  my  presence  some  few  years 
ago.  A  certain  man  was  descanting  rather  loudly  on 
the  excellence  of  his  shooting,  when  Sir  Reginald 
Cathcart  inquired  whether  the  drives  were  good.  The 
reply  was  somewhat  unexpected  :  '  Well,  the  fact  is, 
we  have  not  any  drives  yet,  but  I  am — having  them 
laid  out.'  Our  grouse  in  Skye  never  become  very 
wild.  Their  tameness  in  December  is  often  more 
openly  expressed  than  in  the  breeding  season.  Of 
course,  nesting  grouse  will  allow  you  to  tread  upon 
them  in  the  heather  rather  than  rise  from  their  place 
of  concealment,  and  it  is  necessary  to  take  a  dog  to 
the  hill  if  you  wish  to  form  an  estimate  of  the  number 
of  birds  upon  the  moor  in  the  month  of  May.  A  hen 
that  is  nesting  in  an  open  situation  will  generally 
dash  away  in  trepidation  if  she  thinks  herself  detected  ; 
but  most  birds  nest  in  cover,  and  greatly  prefer  to 


THE  MANNERS   OF   THE   GROUSE  35 


watch  your  movements  while  resting  snugly  concealed 
than  to  court  your  notice  by  any  hasty  action  that 
might  betray  the  safety  of  their  treasures.  Their 
habits  become  modified,  however,  when  the  young 
have  hatched  out.  For  example,  if  you  happen  to 
cross  a  bit  of  mossy  ground  on  a  July  day  you  are 
sure  to  flush  an  old  hen  grouse,  which  sings  out  lustily 
as  she  rises  from  the  heather.  The  dog  makes  a 
point,  and  lo !  a  newly  feathered  youngster  is  crouch- 
ing at  your  feet,  watching  all  your  movements  with 
a  keen  glance  of  its  bright  dark  eyes.  You  pause  for 
a  moment  to  admire  the  little  fellow's  yellow  freckled 
garb  ;  it  harmonises  nicely  with  the  rough  cover  in 
which  the  creature  is  nestling.  The  instinct  with 
which  it  accepts  an  impassive  position,  as  offering  the 
best  hope  of  safety,  is  truly  marvellous.  The  old  hen 
will  not  leave  her  young  ;  another  step  forward,  and 
you  flush  four  or  five  more  young  birds,  which  start 
up  with  their  plaintive  cheeping  cry,  to  fly  a  few 
paces  across  the  moor  before  they  drop  back  into 
cover.  The  anxiety  of  the  old  birds  is  often  touching 
in  its  disinterestedness,  especially  if  the  young  are 
newly  hatched,  in  which  case  the  mother  birds  worm 
this  way  and  that  way  along  the  ground,  trailing 
themselves  through  the  heather  with  half-open  wings, 
hoping  by  this  transparent  device  to  lead  you  away 

D  2 


36       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

from  their  tender  charge.  Grouse  are  good  parents, 
full  of  solicitude  for  their  young,  and  will  endure  any 
danger  rather  than  allow  their  chicks  to  be  injured. 
Sometimes  they  succeed  even  in  beating  off  the  attack 
of  the  hooded  crow,  or  that  rascally  marauder  the 
female  sparrow  hawk. 

Grouse  seem  to  me  to  thrive  best  upon  moors  of 
moderate  elevation.  The  low-lying  grounds  suit  them 
very  well  in  winter,  when  snow  and  sleet  have  driven 
them  down  from  the  hills,  and  they  will  then  fly  long  dis- 
tances. It  is  not  at  all  unusual  for  red  grouse  to  cross 
the  Solway  Firth  at  a  point  where  the  estuary  measures 
two  miles  in  breadth,  and  I  have  known  them  fly 
longer  distances.  They  often  cross  the  valley  of  the 
Tees,  flying  about  a  mile  from  one  hillside  to  another. 
Mr.  Millais  observes  that  '  the  usual  length  of  a 
grouse's  flight  ranges  from  a  quarter  to  three-quarters 
of  a  mile,  depending  entirely,  of  course,  on  the  nature 
of  the  ground  over  which  they  are  passing,  being  as  a 
rule  much  shorter  on  heather  flats,  where  they  have 
numerous  and  agreeable  resting  places,  than  on  broken 
ground  and  rocky  hill  places.  In  a  discussion  which 
took  place  in  the  "  Field  "  I  noticed  that  most  sports- 
men were  of  opinion  that  grouse  were  incapable  of 
flying  four  miles  ;  but  I  have  twice  seen  grouse  on  the 
wing  when  they  were  crossing  the  "Bring,"  a  wide 


THE   MANNERS    OF   THE    GROUSE  37 

channel  which  separates  the  islands  of  Hoy  and 
Pomona,  Orkneys.  The  fishermen  told  me  this 
distance,  at  the  point  where  I  was  sailing,  was  quite 
four  miles  across,  and  the  birds  must  have  come  at 
least  another  mile  on  the  Pomona  side  from  the  point 
where  they  left  the  moor.' 

Mr.  J.  A.  Harvie  Brown  states  that  in  December 
1879  a  pack  of  grouse  was  seen  flying  south  over 
the  Moray  Firth,  making  for  the  Banff  coast.  Their 
journey  must  have  been  very  considerable.  It  is  not 
easy,  in  fact,  to  say  how  far  the  grouse  is  migratory, 
but  that  individual  birds  wander  far  and  wide  in 
autumn  and  winter  there  can  be  no  doubt.  The  Rev. 
M.  A.  Mathew  records  that  a  solitary  red  grouse 
was  shot  by  Mr.  C.  Edwards  on  the  Mendips,  near 
Wrington,  Somerset,  in  September  1885,  and  this,  he 
suggests,  must  have  crossed  over  the  Bristol  Channel, 
migrating  from  Breconshire.  Very  likely  the  bird  was 
pursued  by  a  peregrine,  and  the  chase  carried  it  far 
out  of  its  usual  latitude.  Similarly,  the  red  grouse 
included  in  Mr.  Miller  Christy's  '  Birds  of  Essex  '  had 
no  doubt  strayed  from  Sandringham,  or  from  some 
other  centre  of  introduction  in  Eastern  England  In 
1879  Mr.  W.  Stamper  observed  a  pair  of  grouse  in  a 
turnip  field  on  his  farm  near  Oswaldkirk,  Yorks,  early 
in  February.  The  birds  had  strayed  at  least  ten  miles 


38       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

from  the  nearest  grouse  moor.  Severe  weather  often 
affects  the  interests  of  the  grouse  bred  on  high  ground. 
Thus,  Mr.  James  Carter  writes  that  in  January  1886 
the  neighbourhood  of  Masham,  Yorkshire,  was  covered 
to  a  considerable  depth  with  snow,  which,  owing  to 
sudden  changes  from  thaw  to  frost,  with  frequent 
fresh  falls  of  snow,  became  a  very  solid  mass.  The 
depth  above  the  heather  on  the  moors  was  consider- 
ably more  than  a  foot,  and  large  drifts  formed  on  a 
very  extensive  scale.  '  The  grouse  suffered  severely, 
being  quite  unable  to  penetrate  the  frozen  mass  for 
food,  and  in  consequence  they  left  the  moors  for  the 
lower  cultivated  land  to  an  extent  never  previously 
observed.  The  nearest  point  of  moor  to  Masham  is 
three  miles  distant,  but  the  open  moors  are  considerably 
farther  away.  Walking  near  this  ground,  great  packs 
of  grouse  would  sweep  overhead  and  pass  right  down 
the  valley  over  the  town.  A  field  of  turnips  was 
swarming  with  the  starving  birds,  which  vainly  at- 
tempted, with  numerous  partridges,  to  scratch  down 
for  food.  The  grouse  were  perched  on  the  fences, 
feeding  on  the  berries  like  so  many  fieldfares,  and  on 
several  occasions  they  alighted  amongst  the  branches 
of  trees.  They  were  feeding  in  the  hedgerows  about 
Durton  House  and  close  to  the  outskirts  of  the  town, 
and  even  on  the  heaps  of  manure  close  to  buildings 


THE   MANNERS  OF   THE   GROUSE  39 

where  persons  were  working  all  day.  As  far  as  one 
could  see  they  had  abandoned  the  moors,  and  were 
feeding  miles  away  in  the  cultivated  districts  on  any- 
thing they  could  get  in  the  way  of  food.  A  large 
farmer,  whose  land  lies  three  miles  still  farther  away 
from  their  usual  haunts,  states  that  immense  flocks  of 
grouse  were  feeding  in  his  turnip  fields.  Gangs  of 
men  were  being  employed  to  clear  away  the  snow  from 
patches  of  heather,  but  their  efforts  did  very  little 
towards  providing  feeding  ground  for  the  vast  number 
of  starving  birds.' l  The  Editor  of  the  '  Zoologist ' 
appended  to  the  communication  just  cited  a  note  that, 
'  About  the  time  mentioned  there  was  an  extraordinary 
exodus  of  grouse  from  the  moors  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Ilkley,  in  consequence  of  the  very  inclement 
weather.  The  birds  in  many  cases  left  the  moorland 
altogether,  and  large  packs  were  seen  in  the  fields 
about  Arthington  and  Weedon.  .  .  .  During  a  severe 
winter  some  years  ago  we  remember  to  have  heard 
that  in  Caithness  the  grouse  were  all  down  on  the  sea- 
shore^ and  hardly  a  bird  was  to  be  found  on  the 
moors.'  A  large  amount  of  similar  evidence  might 
be  cited  if  it  could  serve  any  useful  purpose,  but  the 
foregoing  will  suffice  to  show  that  not  only  do  single 
pairs  of  grouse  stray  occasionally  on  to  arable  farms, 

1  Zoologist,  1886,  p.  107. 


40       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

but  that  under  certain  conditions  the  majority  of 
English  grouse  desert  their  favourite  moors  for  a  short 
period  in  order  to  satisfy  the  pangs  of  hunger.  The 
question  whether  grouse  are  liable  to  migrate  in 
the  early  spring,  when  food  is  apparently  plentiful, 
suggests  a  more  difficult  problem.  There  are  good 
sportsmen,  at  any  rate,  and  careful  field  naturalists 
who  incline  to  believe  that  the  grouse,  like  its  distant 
relative  Pallas's  sand  grouse,  is  occasionally  seized 
by  paroxysms  of  migratory  fever,  under  the  influence 
of  which  the  birds  travel  for  many  miles  from  their 
home  moor.  But  positive  proof  that  this  is  so  is 
still  wanting,  and  the  question  can  only  be  settled 
by  means  of  marked  birds. 


CHAPTER  III 

THE   GROUSE   AND    ITS    ENEMIES 

Tin:  most  important  factor  in  grouse  preserving  is  a 
judicious  treatment  of  the  heather  which  clothes  the 
slopes  of  our  northern  hills.  Of  course  many  other 
points  have  to  be  considered.  If  we  allow  the  moors 
to  become  overstocked,  we  increase  the  susceptibility 
of  the  game  to  the  various  forms  of  disease  which 
have  been  so  cleverly  exploited  by  Dr.  Klein  and 
other  scientific  workers.  But  the  vital  question  in 
the  management  of  a  grouse  moor  is  the  maintenance 
of  a  proper  food  supply.  Grouse  are  hardy  fowl, 
and  can  face  wet  seasons,  not  indeed  with  impunity, 
yet  without  seriously  losing  ground.  They  are  well 
accustomed  to  meet  the  vicissitudes  of  our  stormy 
and  changeable  climate.  In  droughty  seasons  they 
vary  their  diet  with  an  additional  share  of  blaeberries. 
Does  the  snow  fall  swiftly  and  thickly  on  the  brae  ? — 
the  grouse  have  long  since  learnt  full  well  by  experi- 
ence of  hard  times  how  to  find  the  gullies  where  the 


42       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF  THE   GROUSE 

snow  will  drift  in  eddies  before  the  gusts  of  wind  that 
drive  with  such  precipitancy,  and  are  sure  to  assemble 
in  the  places  where  they  can  get  the  best  supply  of 
food.  If  necessary,  they  can  scratch  off  the  snow  that 
shrouds  the  food  plant  from  their  vision.  But  how  if 
we  neglect  the  culture  of  the  food  plant  ?  In  that 
case  our  grouse  must  fail.  Shepherds  have  done 
much  to  change  the  appearance  of  our  Highland  glens, 
and  to  bring  about  a  complete  metamorphosis  in  the 
conditions  under  which  grouse  live  in  many  districts. 
An  enormous  increase  in  the  number  of  sheep  kept 
in  Great  Britain  has  destroyed,  and  is  still  destroying, 
a  vast  quantity  of  heather.  This  is  all  right  up  to  a 
certain  point.  Vermin  like  old  heather,  but  grouse 
do  not.  Young  heather  is  very  acceptable  to  grouse 
as  a  variety.  But  the  practice  of  burning  great 
stretches  of  heather,  instead  of  firing  the  ling  in  care- 
fully selected  strips,  is  much  to  be  regretted.  Of 
course  accidents  will  occur  from  time  to  time.  No 
amount  of  care  will  prevent  a  few  sparks  from  a  passing 
locomotive  firing  a  dry  moss  in  a  rainless  season,  any 
more  than  it  would  prevent  our  grouse  being  felled 
by  a  wire  fence  or  by  the  telegraph  wires  newly  erected 
upon  some  spot  where  grouse  often  cross  the  hill. 
But  pains  can  be  taken  to  see  that  heather  is  burnt 
by  the  shepherds  in  such  a  way  as  to  meet  the  require- 


THE   GROUSE  AND  ITS  ENEMIES  43 

ments  of  each  hursel  of  sheep,  while  respecting  the 
rights  and  interests  of  the  prince  of  game  birds. 
Shepherds,  however  good  and  reasonable  they  may 
be  in  other  respects,  like  to  delay  the  burning  of 
heather  until  the  latest  legal  date.  They  have  their 
reasons  for  their  choice.  They  do  not  care  to  fire  the 
heather  until  it  is  very  dry,  for  this  reason,  that  if  the 
stems  of  the  heather  are  green  they  will  not  burn  well, 
but  will  become  hard  and  sharp,  and  the  sheep  will 
not  willingly  feed  among  it.  The  drawback  to  post- 
poning the  burning  of  the  heather  is  the  fact  that  the 
grouse  is  an  early  breeder,  and  that  late  fires  are  likely 
to  disturb  breeding  birds,  and  to  drive  them  away 
from  their  nests.  So  the  first  point  in  keeping  up 
a  good  supply  of  grouse  is  to  secure  a  clever  and 
thoughtful  management  of  the  heather. 

The  next  point  is  to  supplement  a  good  supply  of 
food  for  the  grouse  by  waging  war  against  its  four- 
footed  and  winged  persecutors.  The  modern  game 
preserver  has  often  a  genuine  sympathy  for  the  wild 
creatures  that  are  roughly  classed  together  as 'vermin.' 
It  would  be  a  grievous  sin,  undoubtedly,  to  extirpate 
even  '  vermin  '  altogether.  People  who  have  no  game 
of  their  own  to  preserve  are  sometimes  tempted  to  say 
hard  things  of  those  who  have,  because  they  kill  out 
hawks  and  other  high-spirited  creatures.  Neverthe- 


44       NATURAL  HISTORY   'OF   THE    GROUSE 

less,  there  is  a  mean  to  be  attained  in  game  preserving 
as  in  all  other  things.  Landowners  exercise  good 
sense  and  decency  if  they  tolerate  a  little  '  vermin,' 
both  to  gratify  their  own  taste  and  to  satisfy  the 
requirements  of  an  interested  public.  But  if  they 
allow  their  lands  to  swarm  with  '  vermin  '  entirely  un- 
checked, they  injure  their  neighbours  and  show  a 
want  of  propriety. 

'  Vermin '  should  not  be  extirpated  root  and 
branch,  but  common  sense  requires  that  they  should 
be  kept  within  reasonable  numerical  limits.  In  the 
British  Islands  the  birds  of  prey  have  become  sadly 
reduced  in  numbers  of  late  years.  Collectors  of 
blown  egg  shells — a  very  undesirable  class  of  men — 
offer  fancy  prices  for  the  eggs  of  the  honey  buzzard 
and  hobby  ;  so  that,  if  these  species  try  to  nest  in 
their  old  haunts,  say  in  the  New  Forest,  they  are 
ruthlessly  pillaged  and  plundered  without  mercy.  A 
love  of  daring  induces  a  good  many  young  fellows  to 
storm  the  nests  of  the  peregrines  that  nestle  on  the 
most  precipitous  portions  of  our  coasts.  The  eggs 
are  so  handsome  that  they  really  constitute  a  pleasant 
memento  of  a  hazardous  venture,  while  the  young  are 
charming  pets,  and  can  be  trained  for  the  noble  sport 
of  falconry. 

In  many  parts  of  Scotland,  and,  alas  !  everywhere 


THE    GROUSE  AND  ITS  ENEMIES  45 

in  England,  the  man  who  manages  to  slay  an  un- 
fortunate eagle  of  either  species  is  sure  to  find  his 
doughty  deed  duly  advertised  by  the  production  of  a 
spicy  article  which  goes  the  round  of  the  papers, 
usually  converting  a  sea  eagle  from  Northern  Europe 
into  a  magnificent  golden  eagle  from  the  wilds  of 
Sutherland.  The  most  amusing  instance  of  the  kind 
that  has  come  directly  under  my  notice  related  to  the 
supposed  capture  of  a  great  eagle-owl  in  Cumberland. 
A  local  newspaper  gave  a  high-flown  account  of  how 
the  huge  bird  was  winged  by  a  keeper  on  a  moor  near 
Cockermouth,  and  was  brought  to  bay  by  the  intrepid 
exertions  of  a  large  retriever  dog.  I  journeyed  some 
sixty  odd  miles  to  pay  my  respects  to  the  bird  of  wis- 
dom, and  was  not  a  little  entertained  to  find  Bubo 
maximus  resolve  itself  into  a  forlorn  and  miserable 
specimen  of  the  short-eared  owl.  In  this  case  there 
was  no  doubt  as  to  where  the  blame  of  floating  a 
canard  lay.  The  editor  of  a  local  paper,  Mr.  Blank 
of  Blankington,  had  seen  the  bird  himself  at  the 
keeper's  house,  and  the  identification  of  the  specimen 
as  an  eagle-owl  was  a  flight  of  his  own  unassisted 
genius.  Of  course  this  brilliant  hit  was  copied  by 
many  of  his  brethren  all  over  England,  and  occupied 
a  prominent  position  in  some  of  the  more  foolish 
journals. 


46        NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

In  point  of  fact,  the  golden  eagle  does  prey  to  some 
extent  on  grouse.  It  likes  blue  hares  better  than 
any  other  diet.  Rabbits  are  acceptable  ;  so  also  is 
venison,  or  hill  mutton  for  the  matter  of  that.  But  it 
kills  a  few  grouse  occasionally.  Golden  eagles  have 
always  been  respected  on  our  own  ground.  I  am  too 
pleased  to  see  them  about  to  grudge  them  a  few 
grouse  ;  but  they  prefer  the  blue  hare,  which  can  be 
spared  more  conveniently. 

A  former  tenant  of  Rum  assured  me  that  a  pair  of 
eagles  which  nested  on  a  certain  precipice  in  that 
island  killed  a  good  many  grouse,  in  the  absence 
of  the  blue  hares  and  rabbits  which  they  would  have 
chosen.  Happening  to  be  a  gentleman,  he  respected 
the  safety  of  the  birds,  which  belonged  to  the  golden 
species.  An  outsider  might  have  proved  less  magnani- 
mous. The  sea  eagle  has  become  so  rare  in  Britain 
that  it  would  be  little  less  than  a  crime  for  anyone  to 
raid  its  eyry  or  to  slay  a  member  of  its  race.  Alas  ! 
that  the  hand  of  the  destroyer  was  stayed  so  late.  I 
could  say  a  good  deal  about  the  way  in  which  the 
sea  eagles  of  Skye  were  exterminated,  on  a  proper 
opportunity. 

The  sea  eagle  has  no  objection  to  grouse,  and  is 
sure  to  pick  off  a  winged  bird.  A  neighbour  of  ours 
at  one  time  kept  a  pair  of  sea  eagles.  They  enjoyed 


THE   GROUSE  AND   ITS  ENEMIES  47 


their  liberty,  and  used  to  love  to  accompany  their 
master  when  he  went  to  the  hill,  swooping  down  upon 
the  birds  he  shot  with  great  rapidity  and  unerring 
accuracy  of  aim.  The  kite,  like  the  sea  eagle,  has 
almost  been  '  improved  away '  from  our  midst.  I  for 
one  am  heartily  sorry  that  it  has  become  rare.  Those 
that  I  studied  in  Spain  appeared  to  live  chiefly  on 
offal  and  small  reptiles.  But  I  do  not  believe  the 
kite  is  constant  to  any  one  diet.  In  this  district  the 
common  buzzard  feeds  upon  field  voles,  because  they 
abound  and  other  prey  is  scarce.  In  another  district, 
not  twenty  miles  away  from  the  first,  the  buzzards 
live  chiefly  upon  wall  lizards.  If  you  open  them,  you 
find  their  stomachs  crammed  with  these  reptiles, 
which  you  would  have  fancied  were  too  swift  and 
agile  to  be  captured  by  so  clumsy  a  round -winged 
hawk  as  the  common  buzzard.  It  is  the  same  with 
the  kite.  In  Germany  I  have  seen  it  trying  to  annex 
tiny  partridges.  In  some  parts  of  Scotland,  grouse 
found  an  inveterate  foe  in  the  beautiful,  high-circling 
glede  or  red  kite.  The  term  '  glede,'  by  the  way,  is 
often  applied  to  the  buzzard  and  hen-harrier.  But 
let  that  pass.  The  late  Mr.  E.  T.  Booth  was  a 
singularly  impartial  and  truth-loving  investigator. 
He  studied  the  habits  of  the  kite  to  good  purpose 
in  a  remote  part  of  Perthshire.  The  result  of 


48       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

his  researches  proved  that  the  kites  under  observa- 
tion fed  upon  squirrels  and  rabbits,  as  well  as  upon 
peewits,  and  the  young  of  curlew,  wild  duck,  and 
pigeons  ;  but  he  decided  that  grouse  '  seemed  to 
be  their  favourite  food.'  One  kite's  nest,  in  parti- 
cular, was  visited  on  several  occasions,  and  each 
time  'the  young  bird  had  a  fresh-killed  grouse  on 
the  nest.'  Further,  he  goes  on  to  state  that  he 
counted  the  remains  of  over  thirty  grouse  under  the 
branches  of  a  large  fir.  '  Some  were  only  bleached 
and  weather-beaten  skeletons,  and  probably  had  lain 
for  many  months.'  He  considered  that  all  the  birds 
in  question  had  been  destroyed  by  a  single  pair  of 
kites  at  the  beginning  of  the  season.  I  fancy  that  the 
offenders  would  have  preferred  more  ignoble  prey  if 
it  had  been  forthcoming.  Sorry  should  I  be  to  do 
any  injury  to  a  British  kite.  But  our  personal 
feelings  must  not  be  allowed  to  overpower  our  better 
judgment,  and  the  preservation  of  rapacious  birds, 
however  desirable  from  a  scientific  or  philosophical 
standpoint,  possesses  some  distinct  drawbacks  for 
game-preservers.  The  male  hen-harrier  is  a  lovely 
bird  in  his  delicate  blue  garb,  and  I  know  no  more 
beautiful  sight  in  nature  than  a  hen-harrier  quartering 
a  moor,  as  I  have  seen  it  do  in  North  Uist  and  other 
places.  But  there  cannot  be  any  doubt  that  both 


THE   GROUSE  AND  ITS  ENEMIES  49 

male  and  female  harriers  are  both  extremely  destruc- 
tive to  grouse,  and  relentless  in  their  pursuit.  I  do 
not  justify  the  extermination  which  is  so  rapidly  over- 
taking this  bird,  in  consequence  of  its  nesting  on  the 
ground,  and  being  easily  trapped  beside  its  young,  for 
it  is  a  devoted  parent.  I  do  not  go  so  far  as  to  say 
that  it  feeds  principally  on  grouse  ;  but  I  have  no 
doubt  that  the  presence  of  this  charming  harrier  is 
highly  inimical  to  the  interests  of  both  grouse  and 
partridges.  The  peregrine  falcon  kills  a  good  many 
grouse  on  some  inland  moors,  but  a  long  study  of  its 
habits  has  convinced  me  that  it  feeds  on  many  other 
birds  in  a  larger  degree.  I  believe  it  prefers  puffins 
and  other  sea  fowl  to  grouse.  Of  course  I  admit  also 
that  this  falcon  kills  grouse  at  every  period  of  the 
year.  Every  sportsman  knows  the  truth  of  this 
remark.  It  is  not  as  well  known  that  the  peregrine 
feeds  also  on  small  birds.  Young  '  red '  falcons  are 
very  destructive  to  young  grouse,  but  they  are  not  very 
discriminating,  and  live  largely  on  thrushes  and  other 
small  birds.  I  once  crept  within  a  yard  or  two  of  a 
beautiful  peregrine,  as  he  was  perching  on  a  crag  of 
rock  a  thousand  feet  above  the  boiling  waters  of  the 
Minch.  He  was  so  busily  engaged  in  dissecting  a 
fresh-killed  skylark  that  he  never  observed  my  stealthy 
approach  to  his  stronghold.  It  has  often  been  said 


50       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

that  the  peregrine  picks  off  the  weakliest  bird  of  a 
covey.  The  statement  is  not,  however,  supported  by 
my  experience,  neither  is  it  in  keeping  with  what  we 
know  of  the  peregrine's  character.  The  fact  is,  that  a 
high-couraged  bird  like  the  falcon  disdains  to  strike 
an  unworthy  quarry.  She  prefers  a  good  chase.  A 
Highland  deer-stalker  expressed  the  true  view  of  the 
case  with  the  naive  remark,  that  '  the  falcon  is  a  real 
sportsman  ! '  So  she  certainly  is,  and  as  such  she 
has  no  stomach  for  flying  sickly  grouse.  It  is  my 
belief  that  the  peregrine,  if  she  selects  at  all,  selects 
the  gamest  bird  in  a  covey,  and  the  better  the  flight 
afforded  by  her  victim,  the  keener  is  the  falcon's 
enjoyment  of  the  sport. 

I  am  no  advocate  for  exterminating  peregrines. 
On  the  contrary,  I  have  taken  some  trouble  to  afford 
them  protection  in  the  breeding  season  ;  but  we  can- 
not expect  everybody  to  see  the  falcon  in  a  favourable 
light.  One  of  my  friends  dissected  six  peregrines  in 
a  spring,  all  old  birds.  Five  of  them  had  been  feed- 
ing on  grouse,  the  sixth  had  eaten  a  wild  duck.  Of 
course  this  did  not  prove  much.  The  birds  were 
quite  as  likely  to  have  contained  rock  doves  or  puffins. 
But  the  grouse  has  a  strong  and  vigilant  enemy  in  the 
falcon,  and  all  that  can  reasonably  be  expected  of  the 
owners  of  grouse  moors  is  that  they  will  tolerate  the 


THE   GROUSE  AND  ITS  ENEMIES  51 

peregrine  without  allowing  it  to  increase  locally.  The 
trapping  of  peregrines  is  easily  accomplished  when 
the  falcons  nest  in  the  face  of  the  sea  cliff.  Such 
birds  as  breed  in  high  rocks  in  the  interior  of  the 
country  have  a  better  chance  of  defying  the  exertions 
of  keepers.  Whether  the  buzzard  ever  kills  grouse,  I 
cannot  say.  I  incline  to  think  that  it  would  readily 
kill  a  weakly  or  '  pricked '  bird  ;  but  I  do  not  think  a 
buzzard  cares  much  about  grouse  if  field  mice  and 
carrion  are  plentiful.  The  rough-legged  buzzard  is  a 
finer  bird,  and  more  likely  to  kill  grouse.  I  have 
known  of  two  gerfalcons  that  were  in  pursuit  of  grouse 
when  killed.  They  share  the  fancy  of  the  peregrine 
for  the  flesh  of  that  persecuted  bird  the  Cornish 
chough. 

The  sparrow  hawk  is  common  in  many  of  the 
wooded  parts  of  Scotland  adjacent  to  grouse  moors, 
and  does  some  mischief  in  spite  of  its  small  size.  A 
female  sparrow  hawk  occasionally  cuts  down  a  full- 
grown  grouse  ;  while  the  male,  light  as  he  is,  has  suffi- 
cient audacity  to  seize  a  winged  grouse.  Neither 
the  kestrel  nor  the  bonnie  little  merlin  causes  the 
grouse  much  sorrow.  They  may  carry  off  the  chicks 
when  a  day  or  two  old,  but  only,  I  fancy,  in  very  rare 
instances.  I  have  preserved  our  breeding  merlins 
for  a  dozen  years,  finding  that  they  rear  their  brood 

E  2 


52       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

almost  exclusively  upon  wheatears,  meadow  pipits, 
and  other  unimportant  little  birds.  Once  only  in  all 
my  experience  did  I  find  the  foot  of  a  grouse  chick 
in  the  nest  of  a  merlin.  I  wish  that  the  poor  hen- 
harrier could  be  held  equally  blameless. 

To  summarise  my  own  experience  of  birds  of 
prey,  I  venture  to  say  that,  so  far  as  they  act  merely 
as  '  nature's  police,'  their  presence  on  the  grouse  moor 
has  at  least  its  redeeming  features.  Our  grouse  are 
all  the  stronger  and  hardier  for  having  to  struggle 
hard  to  maintain  their  existence.  The  thoughtless 
persecution  of  birds  of  prey,  or  of  any  other  feathered 
fowl,  is  culpable  in  the  extreme.  But  the  interests  of 
the  sportsman  and  of  the  naturalist  are  closely  allied, 
and  the  one  ought  to  help  the  other  in  the  wise 
management  of  the  grouse  moor. 

Proceeding  now  to  speak  of  the  less  noble  enemies 
which  thin  the  ranks  of  our  coveys  directly  or  indirectly, 
I  own  to  a  considerable  distrust  of  the  raven.  Cer- 
tainly he  feeds  chiefly  on  carrion,  but  I  am  afraid  he 
is  fond  of  grouse  eggs,  and  sucks  their  contents  when- 
ever a  chance  presents  itself.  So  my  endeavour  is  to 
keep  the  numbers  of  the  raven  down,  without,  how- 
ever, threatening  their  local  extinction.  The  worst, 
because  most  cunning,  foes  of  the  grouse  are  the 
carrion  and  hooded  crows.  They  are  the  worst  of 


THE   GROUSE  AND   ITS  ENEMIES  53 


'  vermin  ; '  there  can  be  no  two  opinions  about  that. 
In  Norway,  I  know,  the  hooded  crow  is  pretty  omni- 
vorous. So  he  is  in  Scotland,  out  of  the  breeding 
time.  In  winter  he  will  eat  corn,  or  kill  field  voles, 
or  gorge  himself  on  stinking  fish  on  the  seashores 
But  the  black  and  hooded  crows  are  dire  enemies  of 
sitting  grouse.  They  carry  the  eggs  away  to  the  rock, 
near  their  nest,  and  the  amount  of  mischief  they  do  is 
incalculable.  An  acquaintance  of  mine  saw  three 
'  hoodies '  attack  a  young  grouse.  He  was  a  fine 
bird,  and  could  fly  a  little,  but  he  could  not  withstand 
the  attack  of  three  of  the  black  rascals.  A  few  sharp 
blows  upon  the  back  of  the  head  soon  disabled  him, 
and  placed  him  at  the  disposal  of  his  cowardly  assail- 
ants. There  is  no  worse  pest  in  Scotland  than  the 
hooded  crow.  The  carrion  crow  is  as  mischievous, 
but  its  visits  to  the  grouse's  home  are  more  irregular. 
Much  as  I  dislike  the  use  of  poison,  I  think  it  should 
be  employed  in  the  extermination  of  hooded  crows, 
provided  only  that  the  eggs  which  have  been 
'  doctored '  with  strychnine  be  placed  in  a  forked 
branch,  or  in  a  crag  of  the  rocks  to  which  no  four- 
footed  animal  is  likely  to  penetrate.  The  careless  use 
of  poison  almost  amounts  to  criminality.  Only  a  few 
years  ago,  a  fine  golden  eagle  was  killed  by  poison  in 
a  curious  way.  A  neighbouring  keeper  had  prepared 


54       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF  THE  GROUSE 

some  rats  with  strychnine  and  put  them  out  on  the 
hill  as  a  bait  for  hooded  crows.  Unhappily,  the  male 
of  a  pair  of  golden  eagles,  then  breeding  in  the  locality, 
chanced  to  swallow  one  of  the  defunct  rats,  and 
perished  miserably,  to  our  eternal  regret. 

Some  individual  rooks  are  most  persistent  in 
harrying  grouse  nests,  and  owners  of  rookeries  ought 
in  my  opinion  to  be  held  legally  bound  to  shoot  their 
rookeries  every  season  ;  for  these  voracious  birds  are 
long-lived,  and  if  too  numerous  in  a  district,  they  do 
harm  in  a  variety  of  ways  that  the  general  public  never 
dream  of. 

Whether  jackdaws  are  generally  mischievous  on 
a  moor  I  cannot  say,  but  I  know  that  in  a  dry 
season  they  rob  many  grouse  nests,  and  I  think  they 
should  be  treated  as  vermin,  and  shot  if  possible  at 
sight  whenever  they  appear  on  the  hill.  Richardson's 
skuas  are  sometimes  shot  as  destructive  to  grouse. 
They  would  no  doubt  bolt  a  tiny  grouse  if  they  felt 
hungry,  and  a  chance  offered  itself ;  but  that  is  not  a 
contingency  which  happens  frequently.  The  black- 
backed  gulls  are  very  destructive  to  young  birds  of 
every  kind,  especially  the  lesser  variety.  I  do  not 
think  the  great  black-backed  gull  troubles  much 
about  grouse.  He  cares  more  for  fish  and  for  car- 
rion. But  the  lesser  black-backed  gull  is  a  shame- 


THE   GROUSE  AND  ITS  ENEMIES  55 


less  gourmand,  and  does  a  great  amount  of  mischief. 
He  likes  the  young  wild  ducks  better  than  the  tiny 
grouse,  but  nothing  seems  to  come  amiss  to  his 
hungry  maw.  It  occasionally  happens  that  an  old 
herring  gull  takes  to  felonious  practices.  They  suck 
poisoned  eggs  eagerly,  and  I  have  seen  individual 
birds  beating  the  hill  day  after  day  searching  for 
grouse  nests.  I  have  also  known  the  herring  gull  to 
carry  off  young  chickens  from  a  cottage  door.  But 
the  grouse  suffers  more  from  hooded  crows  than  from 
gulls  or  any  other  of  its  natural  enemies.  Cats  that 
have  run  wild,  collies  that  are  badly  fed,  these,  with 
foxes  and  stoats,  are  the  worst  furred  foes  that  the 
grouse  has  to  dread.  In  the  Highlands  we  kill  out 
the  foxes,  at  least  so  far  as  is  possible.  It  is  very 
necessary  to  keep  them  down,  for  they  would  com- 
mit sad  havoc  among  the  lambs  if  allowed  to  become 
numerous. 

It  may  be  said  in  conclusion  that  the  grouse  has 
fewer  enemies  to  fear  than  formerly.  The  marten 
cat  and  wild  cat  anciently  took  their  toll  of  moor- 
fowl,  but  their  presence  has  been  banished  from  most 
of  the  haunts  of  the  red  grouse. 


56       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE  GROUSE 


CHAPTER   IV 

THE  PLUMAGE  OF  THE  GROUSE 

CONSIDERABLE  interest  attaches  to  the  plumage  of  the 
grouse,  and  most  sportsmen  have  had  occasion  to 
remark  upon  the  great  variability  of  both  sexes.  This 
would  not  apply  to  the  chicks,  which  are  at  first 
clothed  in  fine  down,  greyish  yellow  in  ground  colour, 
prettily  variegated  with  chestnut  and  dark-brown 
markings.  Nor  does  it  apply  eitherto  the  birds  in  first 
feather.  '  At  first  the  upper  parts  are  brownish  black, 
each  feather  edged  and  barred  with  yellow,'  says  Mac- 
gillivray,  and  a  young  bird  in  my  hand  agrees  with 
this  description,  though  some  of  the  edgings  to  the 
feathers  are  pale  chestnut  rather  than  yellow,  and  the 
extremities  of  the  feathers  of  the  interscapular  region 
are  spotted  with  buffy  white ;  the  lower  parts  are 
yellowish  grey  barred  with  pale  reddish  yellow.  From 
this  condition  the  birds  pass  gradually  into  the  chief 
stages  of  adult  plumage,  which  have  been  very  cleverly 
worked  out  by  Mr.  J.  G.  Millais,  who  possesses  a 


THE   PLUMAGE   OF   THE   GROUSE  57 

large  number  of  skins  of  the  Scotch  grouse.  Both 
male  and  female  grouse  are  liable  to  leucotism,  or,  in 
other  words,  to  exhibit  a  tendency  to  assume  white  or 
light-coloured  plumage.  The  male  grouse  have  two 
dominant  types  of  plumage,  the  red  and  the  black. 
The  females  have  three  principal  plumages  :  the  black, 
the  spotted  and  the  yellow.  The  red  is  found,  ac- 
cording to  Mr.  Millais,  principally  in  Ireland  and  the 
Outer  Hebrides.  He  finds  little  difference  in  Irish 
birds  whether  they  be  killed  on  the  swampy  ground 
of  the  north  and  south  or  upon  the  high  mountains 
of  Mayo,  Connemara  and  Donegal. 

The  black  form  '  is  the  most  unusual  of  the  three 
types,  and  one  which  is  very  rarely  developed  to  any 
degree  of  purity.  It  is  more  often  to  be  found  mixed 
with  the  red  or  the  white  type,  but  most  commonly 
with  both.  When  combined  with  these  two  forms,  it 
is  the  one  most  commonly  met  with  by  the  sportsman 
during  winter,  and  five  old  cocks  out  of  six,  shot 
at  that  season,  will  be  found  to  be  of  this  type.' 

As  for  the  females,  Mr.  Millais  decides  that  the 
red  type  is  the  rarest,  and  the  spotted  and  breeding 
dress  birds  are  the  most  beautiful.  'The  females  of 
the  red  Irish  bird  are  yellow,  and  not  red,  as  would 
be  supposed  ;  they  are,  however,  quite  different  from 
what  are  generally  known  among  Yorkshiremen  as 


58       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

"  yellow  hens,"  which  latter  are  finer  in  the  markings 
of  the  feathers,  and  lack  the  boldness  of  the  lines 
found  in  the  Irish  bird.'  Mr.  Millais  points  out  that 
grouse  will  be  found  in  full  moult  in  April,  August 
and  October,  but  they  change  plumage  gradually 
all  through  the  year.  From  the  month  of  May 
the  plumage  of  both  sexes  passes  through  all  the 
changes  mentioned  in  the  case  of  the  ptarmigan, 
and  every  fresh  month  brings  its  alteration  of 
feathers,  either  by  moulting,  discoloration,  or  both, 
till  by  November  the  bird  stands  clothed  in  its  winter 
dress,  that  shows  the  type  completed  in  one  form  or 
another.  Young  birds  of  the  year  are  easily  distin- 
guished till  the  month  of  September,  but  by  Novem- 
ber it  is  impossible  to  see  any  difference  between 
them  and  the  old  birds.  Many  men  who  have  spent 
the  best  part  of  their  lives  on  the  moors  will  assure 
you  that  grouse  vary  in  colour  according  to  the  ground 
they  frequent,  just  as  others  feel  convinced  that  they 
find  certain  types  of  colour  in  certain  counties.  Thus 
they  hold  that  what  they  call  '  stone-bred  grouse '  are 
reared  in  rocky  places,  and  that  their  plumage  is 
barred  rather  than  spotted,  and  of  a  generally  greyer 
tone  of  colour  than  is  elsewhere  met  with.  I  cannot 
say  that  I  personally  place  much  faith  in  such  asser- 
tions, believing  that  birds  vary  almost  indefinitely  even 


THE  PLUMAGE  OF  THE  GROUSE     59 

on  moors  in  a  single  county.  As  regards  the  white 
type,  though  Mr.  Millais  distinguishes  it  as  a  separate 
phase,  I  do  not  see  how  it  is  to  be  separated  from 
leucotism.  Albinism — i.e.  the  correlation  of  white 
plumage  and  pink  irides — is  another  question  altogether. 
Albino  birds  have  often  been  obtained,  but  I  have 
never  yet  come  across  an  albino  grouse,  though  I  have 
heard  of  several  white  ones.  But  the  white  type  of 
plumage  seems  to  be  akin  to  leucotism,  and  I  hardly 
see  how  we  can  separate  the  two  things.  Many 
grouse  have  the  lower  parts  beautifully  frosted  with 
white  in  winter.  Sometimes  white  feathers  appear 
among  those  of  the  back.  Not  rarely  do  white 
feathers  crop  out  on  the  throat  and  breast.  Birds 
which  have  the  flight  feathers  of  the  wings  partially 
or  entirely  white  are  obtained  both  in  England  and 
Scotland  from  time  to  time.1  More  decided  varieties 
occur  in  which  the  ground  colour  of  the  plumage  is 
buffish  or  greyish-white  or  pale  silvery,  varied  with 
the  usual  characteristic  markings  in  a  subdued  form. 
Such  birds  have  been  obtained  in  Ireland,  England 
and  Scotland.  Mr.  Millais  considers  that  they  are 

'  I  should  feel  very  grateful  to  any  reader  who  would  send 
us  a  white  variety  of  the  grouse  for  the  Carlisle  Museum  at  any 
future  time.  Such  a  gift  would,  of  course,  be  cased  with  the 
donor's  name  attached  to  it,  and  should  be  addressed  to  myself, 
or  to  The  Curator,  The  Museum,  Carlisle. 


60       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

most  liable  to  occur  at  a  high  altitude  in  the  north  of 
Scotland.  It  may  very  well  be  so.  Most  of  those 
that  I  have  heard  of  myself  were  killed  in  the  north 
of  England  at  a  very  moderate  elevation  above  sea- 
level.  That  such  varieties  are  rare  there  can  be  no 
doubt,  but  they  are  not  always  preserved,  even  when 
procured.  These  pied  and  so-called  white  grouse  are 
often  bred  from  ordinary  parents.  On  the  other  hand, 
when  the  sport  has  once  cropped  up,  it  is  liable  to  be 
perpetuated,  if  the  first  pied  or  light-coloured  birds 
are  spared.  Last  season  (1893)  a  hen  grouse  was 
shot  near  Alston  in  curious  plumage.  The  wings  were 
cream-coloured,  and  the  body  feathers  were  of  a  dirty 
white.  Three  of  her  young  birds  were  pied  with 
white  ;  the  other  four  birds  of  the  covey  were  ordinary 
grouse.  A  few  springs  ago  a  Skiddaw  shepherd  sent 
me  word  that  a  white  grouse  was  sitting  on  eggs  upon 
the  farm  at  which  he  worked.  Unfortunately  I  was 
not  able  to  go  and  see  the  bird.  I  have  often  thought 
of  introducing  the  willow  grouse  to  my  own  moor,  in 
the  hope  that  it  might  interbreed  with  the  red  grouse. 
These  two  species  appear  to  be  descended  from  one 
common  ancestor.  The  young  of  the  willow  grouse 
bears  a  close  resemblance  to  the  young  red  grouse  in 
first  feather.  The  willow  grouse  has  an  enormously 
wide  range  ;  it  is,  in  fact,  almost  circumpolar,  being 


THE  PLUMAGE    OF    THE   GROUSE  61 

found  in  the  northern  parts  of  both  the  old  and  the 
new  worlds.  Its  flight  and  note  are  those  of  the  red 
grouse ;  but,  in  addition  to  having  acquired  a  permanent 
plumage  of  the  white  type,  it  has  learnt  also  to  perch 
in  trees,  an  accomplishment  to  which  the  red  grouse 
has  not  yet  taken  kindly.  Possibly  the  red  grouse  is 
an  insular  form  of  the  willow  grouse,  which  still  puts 
on  many  white  feathers  in  some  parts  of  its  Western 
home.  This  knotty  point,  unfortunately,  we  cannot 
decide  satisfactorily.  The  red  grouse  is  monogamous 
and  consorts  only  with  its  own  kind.  There  are 
nevertheless  a  few  well-authenticated  specimens  of  the 
wild  cross  between  the  red  grouse  and  black-game, 
as  there  are  also  perfectly  black  examples  of  the  red 
grouse.  As  long  ago  as  1836,  Mr.  Macgillivray 
examined  and  dissected  a  hybrid  of  this  cross. 
Altogether  he  examined  three  specimens  which  showed 
the  characters  of  both  the  species  from  which  they 
were  derived,  and  furnished  the  following  description 
of  a  male  specimen  :  '  In  form  and  proportion  it  is 
similar  to  a  female  black  grouse.  The  bill  is  of  the 
same  form  as  in  that  bird.  The  supraocular  mem- 
brane resembles  that  of  the  red  grouse,  having  a  thin 
free  fringed  margin,  which  is  not  the  case  with  that  of 
the  blackcock.  The  feathers  are  generally  oblong, 
broadly  rounded,  and  have  a  large  tufty  tumule.  The 


62        NATURAL   HISTORY   OF  THE   GROUSE 

tail  is  complete,  slightly  forked  as  in  the  female  black 
grouse,  but  of  only  sixteen  feathers,  as  in  the  red 
grouse.  The  quills  are  twenty-six.  The  tarsi  are 
feathered  all  round,  without  a  bare  space  behind. 
The  toes  are  also  feathered  a  third  down,  as  are  the 
interdigital  membranes,  and  the  plumage  of  these 
parts  is  as  bushy  as  in  the  red  grouse.  They  are 
margined  with  pectiniform  scales,  as  in  the  black 
grouse.  The  claws  are  very  long,  arched,  with  thin 
parallel  edges,  like  those  of  the  red  grouse  and  grey 
ptarmigan.'  l 

The  bird  just  described,  which  we  may  con- 
sider the  type  of  this  variety  of  hybrid,  had  the  upper 
parts  generally  minutely  undulated  with  brownish 
black  and  brownish  red,  with  very  narrow  terminal 
bands  of  white.  The  upper  part  of  the  head  was 
minutely  mottled  with  brownish  red,  brownish  black, 
and  grey,  but  the  rest  of  the  neck  was  black,  with  a 
tinge  of  reddish  purple.  The  primaries  were  greyish 
brown.  The  tail  was  black,  the  eight  middle  feathers 
narrowly  tipped  with  white.  On  the  lower  parts  the 
feathers  were  black,  tipped  with  white,  those  of  the 
sides  being  banded  with  red;  The  only  hybrid  be- 
tween the  red  grouse  and  black-game  that  has  hitherto 
been  obtained  in  England  is  a  fine  male  preserved 
1  British  Birds,  i.  162. 


THE   PLUMAGE   OF   THE   GROUSE  63 

in  the  collection  of  T.  H.  Horrocks,  Esq.,  of  Eden 
Brows,  Carlisle.  Several  specimens  have  been  met 
with  in  Scotland,  and  a  single  hybrid  of  this  kind  has 
lately  been  obtained  in  Wales.  I  have  heard  of  two 
other  birds  referred  to  this  species,  but  in  neither  in- 
stance was  the  bird  preserved,  the  reason  being  that 
they  were  hard  shot.  This  is  a  misfortune,  for  the  two 
species  interbreed  so  very  rarely  that  all  specimens  of 
their  hybrid  offspring  possess  great  interest  for  natu- 
ralists. There  is  reason  to  think  that  a  more  extra- 
ordinary hybrid  than  that  just  named  occasionally 
occurs,  viz.  the  offspring  of  the  red  grouse  and  partridge 
Mr.  Howard  Saunders  has  devoted  the  following  re- 
marks to  an  accredited  hybrid  :  '  Hybrids  between 
the  partridge  and  any  other  species  are  uncommon, 
but  Mr.  F.  Bond  has  a  bird  shot  on  Blubber-house 
Moor,  near  Harrogate,  in  August  1866,  by  the  present 
Lord  Walsingham,  which  appears  to  be  the  result  of 
a  cross  with  the  red  grouse,  the  bill  being  strong  and 
grouse-like,  the  tarsi  and  feet  partially  feathered,  the 
breast  and  body  mottled  with  pale  reddish-brown  with 
a  sprinkling  of  grey,  the  quill  feathers  dirty  white,  with 
lavender-grey  outer  webs.  The  brown  colour  of  the 
upper  parts  is  not  very  significant,  but  the  feathering 
of  the  tarsi  and  feet  seems  tolerably  conclusive.' ' 

1  Yarrell,  British  Birds,  iii.  1 14. 


64       NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

The  feathering  of  the  tarsi  does  not  satisfy  my 
mind  about  the  bird  ;  for  this  reason,  that  I  have 
grounds  for  believing  that  common  partridges  are  liable 
to  be  '  feather-legged.'  A  Crossfell  keeper  assured  me 
that  he  had  shot  partridges  with  feathered  legs,  and 
referred  me  to  a  shepherd  whom  we  met  on  Crossfell. 
When  I  asked  that  worthy  whether  he  had  seen  any 
'  fell  partridges,'  he  asked  at  once,  '  Do  you  mean 
the  rough-legged  ones  ? '  adding  that  he  knew  them 
well.  Mr.  J.  G.  Millais  states  that  two  hybrids  between 
the  red  grouse  and  partridge  have  been  obtained  in 
Scotland,  but  he  has  not  been  able  to  describe  these 
interesting  specimens.  It  seems  perfectly  possible 
that  the  red  grouse  may  interbreed  with  its  ally  the 
ptarmigan,  but  upon  this  point  no  conclusive  evidence 
is  at  present  available.  One  other  point  at  least  re- 
mains to  be  noticed,  and  that  is  the  weight  of  grouse. 
The  cock  birds  not  infrequently  weigh  28  or  28^ 
ounces  in  the  North  of  England,  when  in  first-rate 
condition  in  every  respect.  Anything  over  30  ounces 
is  noteworthy,  but  a  weight  of  32  ounces  is  not  unpre- 
cedented. 


CHAPTER  V 

GROUSE-BECKING 

THE  capture  of  wild  birds  has  always  exercised  the 
resources  of  human  ingenuity  from  time  immemorial. 
The  ancient  Egyptians  were  masters  of  the  art  of  fowl- 
ing, and  some  of  their  methods  still  survive.  I  shall 
presently  speak  of  certain  methods  of  poaching  red 
grouse  ;  but  I  propose  to  treat  first  of  the  dubious  but 
not  necessarily  illegal  pastime  known  throughout  the 
breadth  of  the  North  of  England  as  grouse-becking, 
or  becking  for  grouse.  Those  writers  who  have 
hitherto  essayed  to  write  about  the  natural  history 
of  grouse  seem  to  ignore  one  important  feature  in 
their  habits.  Exception  must  be  made  of  Mr. 
H.  E.  Dresser,  who  published  the  following  note  by 
Mr.  Alston  in  the  '  Birds  of  Europe  '  :  '  Early  on 
frosty  mornings,  the  cocks  are  fond  of  perching  on  a 
"know"  or  hillock,  and  uttering  their  clear-ringing 
"  Er — eck — kek'-kek!  wuk,  wuk  wuk"  At  such 
times  they  may  often  be  seen  to  rise  perpendicularly 

F 


66        NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

.  in  the  air  to  a  height  of  several  feet,  and  then  drop 
again  on  the  same  spot.'  This  brief  remark  supplies 
the  key  to  the  sport  of  'becking.'  When  grouse  go 
to  roost  late  on  in  the  afternoon,  they  do  not  huddle 
together  like  partridges,  but  scatter  over  the  ground 
on  which  they  intend  to  sleep,  at  the  same  time  taking 
care  to  keep  but  a  little  distance  apart.  When  the 
old  male  wakes  in  the  morning,  his  first  thought  is  to 
find  his  mate  and  sport  with  her  during  the  early 
hours  that  precede  the  rising  of  the  sun.  Accordingly, 
rising  on  the  wing,  the  male  grouse  begins  to  in- 
dulge in  short,  playful  flights  towards  the  object  of 
his  attentions.  Rising  quietly  off  the  ground,  the  bird 
flies  up  to  a  height  of  fifteen  or  twenty  feet  above  the 
ground.  He  then  commences  to  drop  again,  and 
simultaneously  utters  his  cry,  l  err — beck,  beck,  beck, 
beck,  goback,  goback,  goback]  the  latter  portion  of  his 
cry  being  concluded  as  he  alights  upon  a  tussock  of 
heather  or  some  other  natural  prominence.  The 
female  responds  to  the  overtures  of  her  mate,  and  he 
continues  to  repeat  his  amorous  performance  until  the 
arrival  of  daylight  suspends  his  erotic  demonstrations. 
The  North-countryman  who  desires  to  go  '  becking  ' 
takes  the  trouble  to  ascertain  in  advance  where  the 
birds  are  most  likely  to  be  met  with  in  his  neighbour- 
hood. He  rises  from  his  bed  in  the  dead  of  the 


GROUSE-BECKING  67 


night,  fills  his  pockets  or  belt  with  cartridges,  and 
sallies  forth  through  the  darkness  to  the  spot  in  which 
he  intends  to  obtain  sport.  Arrived  at  the  right  place, 
which  is  generally  quite  in  the  centre  of  the  bleak 
moorlands,  and  often  miles  from  any  human  habita- 
tion, the  fowler  takes  up  his  position  behind  the  best 
screen  that  offers  itself.  The  angle  of  two  stone  walls 
often  serves  as  a  temporary  shelter,  or  he  may  hide 
himself  beside  a  pile  of  peats  that  are  drying  in  the 
wind.  He  has  to  remain  perfectly  still  and  silent,  no 
matter  how  cold  the  job  may  be,  for  any  demonstra- 
tion of  impatience  would  surely  spoil  his  chances  of 
success.  As  soon  as  ever  he  hears  a  cock  grouse  start 
to  call,  his  own  business  begins.  His  task  in  the  first 
instance  is  simply  to  reproduce  as  nearly  as  he  can 
the  call  of  the  hen  grouse,  which  is  not  easy  to  in- 
scribe upon  paper,  but  may  perhaps  be  rendered  lyap, 
yap,  yap,  yap,'  or  'youe,  youe,  youe? 

The  cry  of  the  hen  is  reproduced  in  several  ways.  I 
know  a  Cumbrian  peasant  who  despises  the  assistance  of 
any  instrument  in  '  becking.'  He  contrives  to  imitate 
the  cry  of  the  female  grouse  by  compressing  the 
nostrils  with  one  hand  and  drawing  in  his  breath,  which 
is  then  emitted  in  deep  gasps.  This  he  has  practised 
for  years,  and  he  can  call  male  grouse  up  to  his  cottage 
door  most  successfully.  Some  men  use  a  metal  bird- 

F  2 


68       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 


call,  others  a  bramble  stem  which  has  been  hollowed 
out  with  a  red-hot  wire.  The  majority  of  those  who 
go  out  '  becking '  carry  with  them  the  stem  of  a  clay 
pipe,  and  use  this  as  their  call.  It  does  not  matter, 
in  fact,  how  the  sound  is  reproduced,  provided  it  be 
communicated  in  a  soft  key  and  bear  a  close  resem- 
blance to  the  cry  of  the  bird.  Long  and  unwearied 
practice  in  calling  is  the  chief  requisite  for  successful 
grouse-becking,  coupled  with  a  quick  and  accurate  ear 
for  sound.  I  have  met  with  one  or  two  men  who  can  call 
hen  grouse  almost  as  easily  as  cocks,  but  no  one  cares 
to  shoot  the  female  birds.  The  strategy  of  the  fowler, 
then,  is  very  simple.  He  has  to  call  the  cock  grouse 
up  to  him  as  to  a  supposed  female.  The  bird  that  has 
begun  to  answer  him  flies  up  and  alights  upon  a  tussock 
of  moss  or  other  prominence  in  order  to  take  his 
bearings  of  the  female  companion  which  he  wishes  to 
join-;  the  fowler  calls  the  grouse  at  short  intervals  until 
the  bird  arrives  within  shot.  He  then  shoots  him,  if 
he  can,  in  the  dim  uncertain  light  which  precedes  the 
arrival  of  the  dawn.  When  the  day  breaks  the  grouse 
cease  to  '  beck '  and  begin  to  look  for  an  early  break- 
fast. It  is  not  a  sport  for  a  neophyte,  but  an  old  hand 
often  manages  to  bag  several  grouse  in  the  course  of 
an  outing.  It  must  not  oe  supposed  that  this  is 
necessarily  regarded  as  poaching.  In  Yorkshire,  in 


GROUSE-BECKING  69 


Cumberland,  and  Westmoreland,  if  not  in  other 
counties,  '  becking  '  for  grouse  is  or  was  recognised  as 
a  highly  entertaining  sport,  and  frequently  put  into 
exercise,  though  it  has  latterly  fallen  into  disuse. 
Still  no  old-fashioned  keeper  in  Lakeland  or  on  the 
Border  thinks  anything  of  getting  a  brace  or  two  of 
grouse  for  his  master's  larder  by  '  becking.'  Lots  of 
stirring  stories  about  this  sport  are  told  by  the  reserved 
dalesmen  ;  but  they  are  shy  of  favouring  strangers 
with  their  confidences,  and  any  irregularities  that  they 
happen  to  allude  to,  are  sure  to  have  happened  to  some 
acquaintance,  for  they  are  too  sharp  to  willingly  com- 
promise themselves. 

One  of  the  most  successful  of  latter-day  fowlers 
was  a  '  proper  poacher,'  who  chiefly  resided  in  Durham 
and  Northumberland,  working  at  his  trade  as  a  miner. 
Cumberland  was  his  native  county,  and  he  came  home 
occasionally  in  order  to  indulge  in  a  spell  of  poaching 
on  his  favourite  preserves,  the  keeper  in  charge  being 
his  particular  enemy.  One  fine  morning  late  in  autumn, 
when  a  sharp  frost  had  just  set  in,  the  '  proper  poacher ' 
rose  betimes  and  shook  himself,  after  which  he  strolled 
off  to  the  hill,  a  moor  near  Crossfell,  to  call  grouse. 
The  weather  was  so  specially  propitious  that  he  felt 
certain  of  some  exciting  sport,  nor  was  he  disappointed. 
He  had  no  sooner  arrived  at  his  hiding  place,  and  '  got 


70       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

set,'  than  he  began  to  call.  To  his  satisfaction  he 
was  very  soon  answered  by  a  grouse,  which  alighted 
on  a  knoll  within  shot  of  his  position.  He  took  a 
very  careful  aim  with  his  old  muzzle-loader,  and  his 
finger  was  already  touching  the  trigger,  when,  to  his 
astonishment,  another  gun  'went  off  and  shot  t'  bird.' 
Recognising  the  sportsman  who  had  spoilt  his  shot, 
he  deemed  it  prudent  to  slip  home  unnoticed  and 
return  to  bed.  A  few  hours  later  the  keeper,  who  had 
evidently  expected  to  meet  him  on  the  moor,  called 
at  his  lodgings  and  proceeded  to  chaff  the  poacher 
whose  practices  troubled  him,  with  the  homely  inquiry, 
'  What's  matter  thou  isn't  out  this  morning  ? '  The 
old  hand  could  not  conceal  his  annoyance  any  longer, 
and  he  blurted  out  the  fact  which  he  had  tried  to 
conceal  :  '  If  thou'd  been  half  a  minute  langer,  lad, 
thou'd  havft  seen  whether  I  was  out  or  not  ! ' 

Frosty  weather  suits  the  pastime  of  '  becking '  best 
— dry  frost,  that  is  to  say,  unaccompanied  by  any 
serious  fall  of  the  temperature.  It  must  be  under- 
stood that  '  becking '  is  not  always  successful  even  on 
days  that  appear  highly  favourable.  There  are  days 
when  the  birds  '  beck '  freely  and  others  when  they 
will  hardly  '  beck '  at  all,  though  no  reason  for  their 
acting  differently  on  these  occasions  can  be  fairly 
assigned.  The  champion  '  becker '  of  a  certain  fell- 


GROUSE-BECKING  7  i 

side  village  is  the  local  shoemaker,  who  loves  to 
narrate  his  experiences.  It  so  fell  out,  he  says,  that 
upon  a  certain  day  he  started  soon  after  midnight  for 
a  favourite  spot,  distant  about  six  miles  from  his 
cottage,  and  situated  in  the  very  heart  of  a  '  smittle ' 
place  for  grouse.  The  track  was  ill  defined,  and  he 
seemed  to  be  a  long  time  in  arriving  at  his  destination. 
When  at  length  he  reached  the  scene  of  his  intended 
operations,  he  sat  down  in  the  moss  and  waited  for 
the  approach  of  the  grey  twilight.  After  long  suspense 
at  last  his  ears  were  gladdened  with  the  much-desired 
challenge  of  an  old  cock  grouse.  He  called  in  answer, 
and  the  bird  responded  and  flew  nearer  and  nearer, 
until  the  exciting  moment  arrived  when  he  saw  the 
moorfowl  '  sit  up  '  upon  a  prominent  tuft  of  heather. 
Taking  a  careful  aim,  as  he  thought,  with  his  heavy 
fowling-piece,  he  pulled  the  trigger,  and,  as  he  thought, 
killed  his  bird.  However,  he  was  too  old  a  hand  to 
show  himself  prematurely,  and  as  his  gun  was  only  a 
single  muzzle-loader,  he  thought  it  best  to  reload  before 
he  jumped  up.  But  no  sooner  had  he  rammed  a 
fresh  charge  home  than  he  looked  up  and  spied  the 
bird  sitting  on  the  tuft  of  heather  as  before.  He 
concluded  that  he  must  have  missed  it  after  all,  and 
he  took  a  second  shot  at  it  with  a  similar  result.  To 
cut  the  story  short,  our  hero  fired  nine  successive 


72        NATURAL  HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

shots,  as  he  declares,  without  ever  leaving  his  hiding 
place,  at  a  grouse  which  seemed  to  lead  a  charmed  life, 
as  it  always  reappeared.  He  fired  a  tenth  shot ;  no 
bird  could  be  then  seen.  He  therefore  jumped  up, 
and  ran  to  the  knoll  of  heather,  where  he  found  no 
fewer  than  ten  dead  grouse  disposed  around  the  spot 
that  had  proved  so  fatal.  His  explanation  was  this  : 
that  he  had  fallen  in  with  a  company  of  birds  which 
were  running  close  together,  and  that  each  time  that 
he  fired  and  knocked  over  a  bird,  another  bird  in  the 
company  ascended  the  point  of  danger  to  make  a  fresh 
reconnaissance.  It  is  not  at  all  unusual  for  an  old  hand 
to  get  a  brace  of  birds  at  one  spot  in  the  half  light  of 
approaching  day.  If  a  bird  offers  a  chance  to  the 
gunner,  but  is  missed  and  flies  away,  its  companion  is 
pretty  certain  to  follow  it.  On  the  other  hand,  if  one 
bird  is  shot  dead,  and  drops  still  upon  the  heather, 
its  companion  will  probably  remain  waiting  for  it  to 
rise,  and  perhaps  afford  a  second  shot.  Grouse  can 
be  shot  in  this  way  at  any  time  between  August  and 
March,  but  the  last  months  of  the  year  are  held  in 
most  esteem. 

In  March  the  male  grouse  are  very  restless,  and 
fly  from  one  knoll  to  another,  frequently  alighting. 
They  still  '  beck,'  but  their  cry  has  become  slightly 
altered  since  the  autumn  ;  they  now  seem  to  say 


GROUSE-BECKING  73 


'  churrr — goback,  goback?  It  would  be  interesting  to 
know  whether  the  custom  of  '  becking '  was  practised 
by  our  forefathers  when  they  shot  with  crossbows. 
I  am  inclined  to  fancy  that  in  those  days  their  larders 
were  often  supplied  with  snared  grouse,  which  had 
been  captured  upon  the  '  stocks '  of  corn.  Probably 
the  methods  of  setting  snares  for  grouse  are  various, 
as  indeed  I  know  they  are.  That  which  appears  to 
be  most  extensively  practised,  at  any  rate  in  the  north 
of  Scotland,  is  to  prepare  a  number  of  snares  of  fine 
wire  and  attach  them  to  a  stout  cord,  which  is  then 
stretched  across  a  '  stook '  of  oats,  the  ends  of  the 
string  being  securely  attached  to  two  stakes  which 
have  been  driven  into  the  ground  on  either  side  of 
the  '  stook.'  Another  plan  is  to  set  a  great  number 
of  snares  in  the  runs  which  the  grouse  make  through 
the  heather  when  feeding.  These  snares  are  generally 
made  of  fine  copper  wire,  bent  in  the  form  of  a  loop 
of  from  five  to  six  inches  in  diameter.  The  free  end 
of  the  wire  is  doubled,  and  attached  to  a  tuft  of  ling 
by  a  piece  of  string.  The  loop  of  wire  is  often  held 
in  the  proper  position  by  a  small  cleft  piece  of  wood. 
Some  men  take  grouse  in  drag-nets,  when  the  birds 
are  roosting  in  rough  grass  and  young  heather  ;  but  I 
fancy  that  this  method  of  poaching  grouse  is  less 
practised  than  formerly.  Sportsmen  cannot  be  too 


74       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

careful  to  enlist  the  interest  of  herds  and  shepherds  in 
the  preservation  of  grouse.  The  goodwill  of  the  small 
farmers  and  tenants  of  allotments  abutting  on  the 
moors  should  be  courted  sedulously,  and  their  for- 
bearance rewarded.  I  say  so,  as  indicating  a  practical 
policy,  for  these  men  have  many  temptations  to  acquire 
birds  dishonestly,  or,  as  a  working  man  expressed  it, 
'  There  can  be  no  bigger  poachers  if  they  take  it  that 
way.'  Some  individuals  allow  their  dogs  to  snap  sit- 
ting grouse.  Colley  bitches  are  often  apt  pupils  in 
such  nefarious  practices.  The  story  goes  that  a  coun- 
tryman was  known  on  a  certain  occasion  to  have 
prematurely  exhausted  his  credit  at  the  bar  of  the 
'  pub '  he  patronised,  for  he  was  thirsty  still.  He 
then  inquired  of  a  friend  if  the  'laal  bitch'  was  at 
home.  Being  answered  in  the  affirmative,  he  called 
for  the  sheepdog,  and  having  taken  her  to  the  hill,  he 
soon  returned  with  a  brace  of  '  snapped  '  grouse,  which 
renewed  his  credit.  On  another  occasion — the  sheep 
were  being  gathered — a  small  farmer  who  had  volun- 
teered to  assist  the  shepherds  was  observed  to  be 
carrying  his  short  coat  over  his  arm  with  more  than 
usual  carefulness.  On  inquiry  being  made,  it  turned 
out  that  this  rascal  had  allowed  his  cur-dog  to  snap 
a  whole  covey  of  little  grouse.  The  dog's  master 
willingly  joined  in  the  illegality  ;  to  quote  his  own 


GROUSE-BECKING  75 

words,  '  He  thought  he  would  have  a  pie  when  he  got 
home.'  But  how  was  the  game  to  be  stowed  away  ? 
He  had  tied  the  sleeves  of  his  jacket,  so  that  they 
were  converted  into  bags,  in  which  the  birds  were 
nicely  concealed.  He  then  turned  the  coat  inside 
out,  in  order  that  the  sleeves  might  not  be  seen,  and 
congratulated  himself  upon  his  cleverness  in  smuggling 
stolen  grouse.  Mr.  J.  G.  Millais  unearthed  an  old 
Highland  poacher,  who  explained  an  ingenious  method 
of  capturing  both  grouse  and  ptarmigan  which  is  often 
adopted  in  Ross-shire  and  Sutherland  when  the  snow 
is  deep.  '  The  poacher  discovers  a  place  on  the  hill 
where  the  birds  are  in  the  habit  of  sitting  when  snow 
has  fallen.  To  this  spot  he  repairs  when  the  down- 
fall has  ceased,  and  before  night  if  possible,  so  that 
the  snow  may  be  still  soft  and  not  frozen.  He  is 
armed  with  nothing  but  a  bag  of  oats  or  corn,  and  a 
beer  or,  still  better,  champagne  bottle.  Thus,  having 
nothing  of  a  suspicious  nature  in  his  possession,  he 
would  be  allowed  to  pass,  even  though  searched. 
Arrived  on  his  ground,  he  proceeds  to  make  a  number 
of  indentations  in  the  snow  with  his  bottle,  and  the 
bottom  of  the  cavity,  just  within  reach  of  the  birds, 
he  fills  up  with  grain,  and,  scattering  the  rest  of  the 
contents  of  the  bag  near  the  holes  on  the  surface, 
he  departs,  to  return  next  morning  and  collect  his 


76       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 


plunder.  Unless  a  frost  occurs  the  trick  must  neces- 
sarily be  a  failure,  but  if  the  cavity  becomes  properly 
hardened,  and  the  birds  find  the  food,  success  is 
almost  a  certainty.  A  grouse  or  ptarmigan  finding 
what  to  them  is  a  great  delicacy,  immediately  imparts 
the  knowledge  of  its  presence  to  others  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood. They  at  once  greedily  devour  all  the 
grain  that  is  lying  around,  and  then  turn  their  atten- 
tion to  obtaining  the  stores  lying  in  the  holes.  Pro- 
bably by  straining  their  necks  to  the  uttermost  they 
may  be  able  to  reach  a  few  grains,  but  this  only  serves 
to  whet  their  appetites,  and  they  must  have  more. 
Consequently  they  go  on  reaching  till  they  eventually 
topple  over  into  the  hole,  which  just  comfortably  cor- 
responds to  their  own  size,  and  in  which  the  more 
they  struggle  to  extricate  themselves  the  more  firmly 
do  they  become  wedged.  When  a  bird  is  forced  into 
a  hole,  even  should  the  sides  be  smooth,  it  is  not 
easily  withdrawn,  as  the  feathers  resist  being  pulled 
backwards  ;  but  when  the  sides  are  rough  the  reten- 
tion is  doubly  great,  and  the  feeble  strugglings  of  the 
unfortunate  bird  in  its  cramped  position  are  not  suffi- 
cient to  enable  it  to  escape.' 

Of  late  years  much  vexation  has  been  occasioned 
to  sportsmen  in  the  north  of  England  by  the  deadly 
practice  of  netting  grouse  with  fixed  engines.  These 


GROUSE-BECKING  77 


consist  of  nets  made  of  very  fine  twine,  netted  to  a 
three-inch  mesh,  which  are  suspended  from  poles 
placed  ten  yards  apart,  at  such  a  height  as  permits 
the  fellside  sheep  to  pass  under  them.  Each  net  in 
a  series  is  independently  suspended  on  a  cord  stretched 
across  the  poles,  and  can  be  hung  tight  or  loose,  as 
desired.  They  are  easily  put  up— at  least,  I  am 
assured  that  two  men  can  fix  up  a  thousand  yards  of 
nets  in  an  hour.  The  nets  are  shifted  according  to 
the  direction  of  the  wind.  Grouse  have  generally  a 
favourite  line  of  flight,  but  they  do  not  always  adhere 
to  the  same  course.  When  the  birds  are  flying,  there 
is  sure  to  be  a  leader  in  the  company.  This  one  strikes 
the  net  almost  to  a  certainty,  and  down  it  instantly 
falls.  The  way  in  which  these  nets  are  worked  is 
very  simple.  Of  course  they  could  not  be  tolerated 
on  any  gentleman's  moor,  but  certain  outsiders  hire 
small  farms  and  allotments  on  the  edge  of  grouse 
moors,  with  a  view  to  annexing  their  neighbours' 
grouse.  The  birds  themselves  assist  inadvertently 
in  their  own  capture.  Their  principal  time  for  shift- 
ing about  is  in  the  evening,  after  feeding,  and  again 
after  '  becking '  in  the  morning.  But  they  are  par- 
ticularly restless  on  many  moors  about  the  end  of 
September  and  in  October,  especially  the  female 
birds,  and  the  first  strong  gale  brings  many  of  them 


78       NATURAL   HISTORY  OF   THE   GROUSE 

off  the  hill-tops,  looking  for  more  sheltered  and  genial 
situations.  Naturally,  many  of  them  seek  the  edges 
of  the  moors,  and  are  caught  in  the  nets  set  upon 
such  allotments  as  abut  upon  them.  This  method  of 
netting  grouse  is  very  disastrous.  The  mischief  of 
capturing  the  birds  is  only  part  of  the  evil.  The 
worst  feature  about  it  is  that  the  hens  are  caught  in 
such  numbers  as  seriously  to  interfere  with  the  breed- 
ing stock.  It  is  true  that  birds  of  both  sexes  will  fly 
a  long  distance  to  a  patch  of  black  heather  during  a 
prevalence  of  severe  frost  and  heavy  snow,  but  earlier 
in  the  season  the  number  of  hens  caught  generally 
outnumbers  the  cocks  very  seriously.  The  reason 
for  this  seems  to  be  twofold.  The  hens  shift  about 
in  packs  more  irregularly  than  their  male  companions, 
and  they  are  less  partial  to  the  high  grounds,  but  seek 
the  lower  portions  of  the  moor,  and  such  as  are  most 
screened  from  the  east  winds.  Fine  open  weather, 
however,  suits  the  grouse- netters  best,  and  they  say 
that  the  birds  fly  very  long  distances  when  shifting 
about  the  hills.  The  old  cocks  keep  their  own  'heaf,' 
or  station,  on  the  hill  with  more  constancy  than  their 
female  companions.  In  the  morning  the  birds  '  start 
to  feed  '  soon  after  they  cease  '  becking,'  but  they  do 
not  feed  so  heavily  in  the  forenoon  as  later  in  the 
day,  an  hour  or  two  before  dusk  especially,  when 


GROUSE-BECKING  79 

their  crops  become  distended  with  food.  In  the 
morning  hours  they  like  to  sun  themselves  in  dry 
moss  or  on  an  open  slab  of  rock,  each  bird  resting 
with  one  wing  expanded  like  a  fowl.  As  for  the  ways 
of  disposing  of  poached  grouse,  they  are  manifold. 
Sometimes  they  are  hawked  about  the  country  by 
persons  selling  peat.  Often  they  are  taken  to  market 
with  other  produce.  The  railways  and  parcel  post 
both  offer  excellent  facilities  for  furthering  the  distri- 
bution of  the  birds.  Personally,  I  was  once  favoured 
with  a  fine  red  grouse  in  rather  an  unexpected  fashion. 
Our  keeper  happened  to  shoot  an  Iceland  gull,  and 
wrote  to  inform  me  that  he  despatched  the  bird  to 
me  by  that  day's  parcel  post.  His  letter  came,  but 
no  gull  appeared,  and  I  therefore  begged  the  Post 
Office  authorities  to  make  a  search  for  the  lost  bird. 
The  gull  arrived  eventually  by  rail.  Meantime  the 
postal  authorities  had  taken  counsel,  and  finding  that 
a  grouse  without  a  label  had  come  into  their  posses- 
sion, they  forwarded  to  me  the  moor-fowl,  plucked 
and  roasted  as  it  was,  with  a  polite  intimation  that 
they  conjectured  that  this,  being  evidently  a  bird  of 
some  description,  might  probably  prove  to  be  the 
Iceland  gull  that  had  gone  astray. 


SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

BY 

A.  J.  STUART- WORTLEY 


CHAPTER  I 

'  THE    SCOTCH     MAIL ' 

THE  lamps  are  being  lit  in  Bloomsbury.  Long  ago 
they  have  begun  to  twinkle  in  the  small  bird  shops  of 
the  '  Dials,'  and  to  flare  in  the  gin  palaces  of  the 
avenues.  As  the  dull  brown  haze  of  a  London 
August  evening  settles  down  the  streets  become 
thicker  with  people,  and  every  tenement  in  this  part 
of  the  town  pours  forth  its  quota  to  the  stream  upon 
the  pavement,  there  to  strut  or  loaf,  or  drink  away 
its  short  hour  of  ease,  until  bed,  straw,  and  plank 
receive  once  more  the  weary  bones  of  the  toilers  of 
the  city. 

As  your  cab  rattles  along  towards  Euston  or 
King's  Cross  the  wheels  spatter  black  mud — legacy 
of  the  leaden  drizzle  of  the  afternoon —  upon  the  pale 
faces  and  ragged  clothing  of  the  denizens  of  the 
cellar  and  the  garret  :  men,  women,  and  children  in 
crowds,  to  whom  gas  serves  for  air,  garbage  for  food, 
and  vitriol  for  drink  ;  who  have  never  trod  a  hillside 

G  2 


84  SHOOTING   THE   GROUSE 

or  leapt  a  stream,  and  to  whom  heather  and  rock, 
bracken  and  pine  are  as  unknown  as  the  Ovis  Poll 
to  an  Islington  butcher. 

Bound  as  you  are  for  the  land  where  these  gifts 
of  Nature,  added  to  the  charms  of  stag,  salmon,  and 
grouse,  await  you  in  plenty,  the  contrast  between  your 
happy  state  of  mind  and  the  cheerless,  airless  lives  of 
these  people  is  brought  vividly  before  you,  and  you 
must  give  a  glance  of  sincere  pity  to  the  groups  of  pallid 
faces — whiter  and  thinner,  it  seems  to  you,  than  usual 
— huddled  together  in  dark  doorways,  or  peering 
hungrily  from  cellar  gratings. 

But  you  and  I  were  not  '  born  to  set  it  right  '- 
here  is  the  great  railway  station  looming  dark  but 
welcome  through  the  fog,  the  narrow  shave  of  an 
upset  as  you  drive  in  at  the  tall  narrow  gates,  the  line 
of  flashing  lamps  and  eager  porters,  and  as  you  leap 
*o  the  ground  and  hand  your  minor  baggage  to  the 
old  man  with  a  face  like  a  winter  apple,  and  well- 
worn  patches  of  grey  on  the  familiar  green  corduroy, 
the  squalor  of  the  Dials  passes  from  your  mind,  and 
cheerfully  you  set  your  face  towards  the  North. 

Tickets  are  taken,  luggage  stowed,  dogs  bundled 
in,  rod,  gun,  rifle,  and  cartridge  cases  carefully  seen 
to,  book  selected,  sleeping  berth  inspected,  and  ere 
you  have  quite  finished  the  final  instructions  to 


'THE  SCOTCH  MAIL'  85 

the  trusty  servant  who  remains  in  town,  suddenly, 
with  no  more  warning  than  a  short  blast  from  the 
pea-whistle  of  the  smart  guard,  the  great  train  begins 
to  glide  slowly  and  smoothly  away.  As  you  pull  up 
the  window,  a  shout  of  '  Good-bye  ! '  from  some  less 
fortunate  person,  seeing  off  a  dear  friend,  rings  along 
the  platform,  and  turning  back  into  the  well-lit 
carriage  you  realise,  as  the  train  plunges  into  the 
dark  tunnel  under  Hampstead  with  a  quickening 
pace  and  an  increasing  rattle,  that  you  are  fairly 
off. 

But  you  are  very  tired  ;  the  last  day's  business 
has  been  heavy  and  anxious,  and  you  haven't  yet 
shaken  off  the  clinging  meshes  of  your  work-a-day  life. 
Wearily  you  lean  back  in  your  seat,  and  as  the 
hoarse  roar  of  the  tunnels  and  the  flying  flashes  of 
the  station  lamps  tell  of  the  terrific  pace  at  which 
the  train  is  now  travelling,  you  sink,  the  end  of  your 
cigar  glowing  fiercer  in  the  dim  light,  into  a  lethargy 
variously  tinged  with  care  and  hope.  Presently  you 
rouse  yourself  to  make  arrangements  for  the  night, 
hand  your  tickets  to  the  civil  'conductor,'  with  in- 
structions to  wake  you  half  an  hour  before  Perth, 
dispose  your  bed  and  wraps,  and  before  darkening 
the  light  pull  down  the  window  for  a  moment  to  sniff 
an  air  that  blows  fresher  and  sweeter  than  St.  Stephen's, 


86  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

Capel  Court,  Lincoln's  Inn,  or  Pall  Mall,  and  to  be- 
come aware  that  you  are  tearing  over  the  borders  of 
Hertfordshire  at  fifty-five  miles  an  hour,  on  a  magnifi- 
cent starlight  night.  The  great  oaks  and  elms  of  old 
England  fleet  by  you  like  streams  of  cardboard  trees, 
the  long,  low  landscape  fades  into  the  blue-black  of 
the  sky,  and  so  steady  is  the  going  that  the  distance 
seems  like  a  slow  dioramic  procession  of  woods  and 
hills,  while  you  alone  are  motionless,  and  the  nearer 
objects — houses,  fences,  telegraph  poles,  parapets,  or 
platforms — but  so  many  formless  phantoms,  rushing 
with  roar,  scream,  and  rattle  back  to  the  South. 

Then  comes  sleep,  in  which  the  monotonous  vibra- 
tion of  the  train  reiterates  itself  persistently,  and  intrudes 
upon  your  dreams  ;  your  clients,  patients,  colleagues, 
or  opponents  whispering  vague  things  to  you  to  the 
eternal  accompaniment  of  the  noise  of  the  wheels, 
their  words  and  your  replies  always  twisted  to  fit  in 
with  the  exact  beats  of  the  pulse  of  the  engine  or  the 
clicking  of  the  coupling  irons.  A  slackening,  a  hissing, 
and  a  cessation  of  the  throbs  give  you  a  moment  of 
conscious  sanity  at  Rugby.  This  has  no  concern  for 
you:  you  gather  your  rugs,  always  slipping  off  on  to 
the  floor,  more  tightly  round,  and  as  the  porters,  like 
far-off  ghosts  shouting  to  each  other  in  a  huge  cavern, 
repeat  the  well-known  name,  all  you  can  think  of  is 


'THE  SCOTCH  MAIL*  87 

that  Dickens  wrote  something  wonderful  about  Rugby 
Junction,  and  that  you  once  knew  a  man  who  kept 
horses  there  and  hunted  from  London — very  incon- 
venient, but you  are  asleep  again. 

This  time  fairly  and  placidly,  with  hardly  a  pause 
in  a  vivid  but  pleasantly  long  dream,  while  you  are 
whirled  unconscious  past  the  flaming  cities  and  lurid 
wastes  of  the  Black  Country,  to  the  open  pure 
country,  and  suddenly,  for  no  reason,  you  are  broad 
awake  ;  a  cold  grey  daylight  is  slanting  through  the 
cracks  of  the  blinds,  and  the  sight  of  your  bundle  of 
fishing  rods  in  the  corner  reminds  you  that  you  have 
left  London  and  business,  and  are  going  to  the  moors. 

Ah,  but  it  was  the  cold  that  woke  you,  for  you  are 
chilly,  and  drag  down  your  cape — the  old  cape  that  has 
sheltered  you  from  so  many  driving  showers  and  cut- 
ting winds,  that  has  been  so  often  stained  with  blood 
and  peat,  oil  and  sea  water,  tea  and  travel — fold  your- 
self in  it  up  to  your  chin,  and  lie  there  in  the  grey 
dawn,  thinking,  listening  to  the  occasional  whistle  of 
the  engine,  wondering  whereabouts  you  are  and  what 
time  it  is,  but  supremely  happy. 

Your  whole  nature  seems  to  have  undergone  some 
change.  A  purer  air  is  filling  your  lungs,  and  though 
you  have  a  very  slight  sore  throat,  and  are,  generally 
speaking,  dirty,  unkempt,  and  chippy,  a  wondrous  calm 


88  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

has  come  over  your  whole  being.  No  longer  do  the 
cares  or  dilemmas  of  yesterday  assail  your  peace  ; 
the  House  of  Commons-  and  the  City — how  small 
and  far  off  they  appear,  as  a  little  gleam  of  pale 
sunlight  illumines  the  details  around  you,  and  a 
smothered  rumbling  tells  that  you  are  crossing  a 
bridge  over  a  river.  You  must  look  out ;  up  goes 
the  blind  ;  and  there,  there  are  the  everlasting  hills. 
Great  grey -green  slopes  of  Cumberland  fells,  patched 
and  scored  with  heaps  and  rifts  of  slaty  stone,  black 
in  the  shadow  and  white  and  wet  in  the  light ;  veils 
and  wreaths  of  misty  shower,  like  puffs  from  a  colossal 
steam-engine,  travelling  across  the  face  of  rock  or 
grass  ;  far  up,  a  little  slender  white  thread  of  a  water- 
fall— you  can  almost  hear  the  trickle  and  splash  of 
the  water  on  the  stones,  or  trace  the  sound  of  its 
gurgling  rush  down  through  the  beds  of  granite, 
fringed  with  greener  bracken,  to  the  valley. 

Black  cattle  grazing  unconcerned  along  the  lower, 
white  sheep  on  the  higher  slopes ;  straggling  stone  walls 
of  any  age  dividing  the  huge  pastures  ;  deep  dens 
down  which  the  foaming  becks  are  pouring,  where  the 
mist  clings  longer  and  blacker  until  the  early  flight  of 
chattering  rooks  and  jackdaws  crossing  to  their  feed 
is  relieved  in  deeper  notes  of  black  against  it. 

Now  comes  the  sun,  slanting  along  the  hill,  gilding 


SCOTCH  MAIL'  89 


the  knolls  and  silvering  the  wet  stones  ;  the  puffs  of 
curling  mist  seem  to  draw  themselves  higher  up,  grow 
whiter  and  more  palpable  in  his  rays,  and  become 
absorbed  in  the  solid  gold-white  mass  of  cumulus 
cloud  floating  against  the  blue  of  this  glorious  summer 
morning. 

The  hills,  too,  seem  to  have  grown  farther  off,  the 
landscape  is  lower,  rich  crops  and  waving  corn  appear, 
the  silver  stream  of  Eden  reflects  red  bridges  and  black- 
green  woods,  and  in  a  few  more  minutes  a  vision  of 
red  stone  and  brick,  of  old  grey  wall  and  clustering 
chimney,  of  filmy  smoke  against  the  luminous  air, 
and — '  Carr-lisle '  rings  in  a  clear  northern  voice 
along  the  platform  ;  the  train  is  still  once  more. 

It  is  yet  very  early,  and  feeling  warmer  and  more 
restful,  though  you  peep  out  to  look  along  the  train 
(why  ?),  you  do  not  care  to  rise.  The  northern  dialect  of 
the  porters,  contrasted  with  the  accent  of  your  London 
guard,  arrests  your  ear  for  a  moment ;  you  have  time 
to  note  a  few  types,  shepherds  and  nondescripts,  loaf- 
ing into  the  station  as  the  light  brightens,  to  catch 
some  local  train  or  receive  some  unsavoury  package, 
and  you  are  away  again. 

Soon  appear  the  flat  marshes  that  fringe  the 
Solway  Firth,  the  broad  stretch  of  still  water  outside 
the  reeds  reflecting  the  white  wings  of  the  gulls  or 


90  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

the  strings  of  fowl  rising  seaward,  the  fainter,  longer 
lines  of  the  estuary,  and  far  off,  flecked  with  little 
diamond  flashes  of  white  in  the  sun,  the  great  grey 
sea  itself.  Lines  of  black  posts,  of  which  you  wonder 
the  use  and  meaning,  stretch  through  the  reeds  from 
the  shore,  as  though  seedlings  from  the  black  timbers 
of  the  long  low  bridge  that  carries  you  across  the 
marsh.  Little  cottages  nestling  under  sycamore  and 
birch  come  in  sight ;  the  great  wreaths  of  steam  from 
the  engine  float  and  fade  away  over  the  landscape,  and 
as  they  whisk  across  a  little  village  of  white  houses, 
brush  over  the  slate  roofs,  and  dance  away  into  the 
fields  beyond,  a  long  wooden  platform  rattles  past 
you,  and  the  magic  word  '  Gretna,'  in  white  letters  on 
a  blue  board,  tells  that  you  are  fairly  over  the  Border, 
and  fills  your  mind  with  thoughts  of  the  comedies  and 
tragedies  which  many  such  a  glorious  morning  has 
witnessed  around  the  blacksmith-parson's  cot  on  the 
historic  green. 

What  a  contrast  !  The  whizz  of  your  train,  '  speed 
forty-five  miles  an  hour,'  with  its  living  freight  of  a 
hundred  persons,  tearing  past  the  little  station,  and 
the  swaying,  rolling  post-chaise,  with  its  steaming 
horses  and  sweating  postboys,  bearing  the  blushing 
girl-bride,  the  gallant  bridegroom  in  laced  cocked  hat 
and  coat,  still  in  his  hand  the  pistol  with  which  he 


'THE  SCOTCH  MAIL'  91 

shot  the  leader  of  the  pursuing  chaise  some  ten  miles 
back,  clattering  over  the  rudely  paved  main  street  and 
pulling  up  at  the  blacksmith's  door  ! 

Ah  !  times  are  changed  ;  now  no  one  stops  at 
Gretna  except  by  creeping  trains  to  which  in  Bradshaw 
the  ominous  syllable  '  Gov.'  is  tacked,  and  you  yourself, 
sailing  along  in  your  sleeping  car,  to  which  a  king's 
litter  of  a  past  age  is  for  cost  and  cunning  workman- 
ship but  a  cheap  and  tawdry  conveyance,  are  already 
among  the  rolling  moors  of  Dumfries,  and  were  you 
not  so  sleepy  would  be  craning  your  neck  at  the  window 
to  catch  sight  of  a  brood  of  grouse  rising  lazily  off  the- 
stone  wall  by  the  railway,  and  settling  down  again 
upon  the  nearest  heathery  knoll,  crowing  to  the  sun. 

A  second  sleep  comes  over  you,  veiling  your 
thoughts  with  delicious  visions.  Little  you  reck  of 
the  sweating  toilers  pausing  by  the  great  furnaces  and 
glowing  cinder  heaps  of  Motherwell  to  stare  as  you 
roll  by  ;  little  of  the  clankings  and  shoutings,  the 
shuntings  and  bumpings  of  inevitable  Larbert ;  little 
of  the  rush  through  station  and  town,  past  castle  and 
cottage,  manse  and  moor ;  the  rattle  of  wheels,  the 
clanking  of  the  iron,  and  the  regular  pant  of  the 
piston-rod  have  become  your  lullaby  ;  and  you  are 
enjoying  a  foretaste  of  the  rest  that  we  are  promised 
in  heaven. 


92  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

The  Dials  wake  to  their  dirt,  Bloomsbury  to  its 
business,  and  the  slums  to  their  squalor  ;  the  lamps 
are  out  again  now,  and  the  sickly  rays  of  morning 
rouses  the  pallid  city  folk  to  another  day  of  struggling 
toil.  The  shiverings  and  fevers,  vices  and  terrors, 
miseries  or  murders  of  the  London  night  are  even 
now  being  turned  out  naked  to  its  bitter  glare  ;  the 
thundering  din  of  traffic,  the  bawling  of  commerce, 
and  the  shrieking  of  machinery  drown  in  their  deafen- 
ing chorus  the  weeping  of  the  weak,  the  moans  of 
the  sick  and  dying,  the  cries  of  all  their  victims. 
Only  the  strong,  the  clever,  and  the  hopeful  awake  to 
live  in  the  stream  that  can  no  more  be  stemmed  than 
the  tide  of  the  ocean — the  overwhelming  civilisation  of 
a  great  city. 

But  you  speed  on  in  peaceful  oblivion  of  all  this, 
in  which  at  other  times  you  bear  your  part,  while  you 
are  carried  over  hills  and  valleys  clad  with  purple 
heather,  under  a  sky  of  boundless  blue  flecked  with 
shining  white  clouds,  swaying  gently  round  the 
shoulders  of  great  hills,  gliding  across  deep  ravines 
and  in  and  out  of  peaceful  glens,  threading  through 
thriving  towns  or  lazy  villages.  But  now  some 
curious  change  in  the  music  of  the  train  noises 
first  puzzles,  then  half  rouses  you,  and  then,  two 
feet  from  your  ear,  one  piercing  cry  of  '  Scotsman,' 


THE  SCOTCH  MAIL*  93 


uttered  in  the  shrill  nasal  twang  of  a  Lowland  newsboy, 
brings  you  straight  up  on  your  seat,  and  you  are 
broad  awake  to  find  yourself  at  Perth.  Hastily  you 
get  over  a  doubtful  toilet,  and  feeling  now  as  fresh  as 
a  lark,  embark  upon  the  sea  of  confusion  which  the 
great  platform  presents.  Breakfast,  rapid  and  hearty, 
refreshes  you,  and  as  you  superintend  the  change  of 
your  baggage  into  another  train — for  you  are  bound 
still  farther  north — you  have  time  to  cast  greetings  to 
many  an  old  friend,  a  bow  or  a  smile  to  some  fair 
ladies,  and  an  oath  or  a  caress  to  a  brace  of  handsome 
setters  who,  coupled  together  and  panting  with  excite- 
ment, have  run  between  your  legs  and  nearly  upset 
you. 

This  is  a  shorter  though  slower  run,  and  you  feel 
yourself  growing  nearer  and  nearer  to  the  magnet  that 
is  drawing  you  northward.  Leisurely  you  mark  the 
bloom  on  the  heather,  the  emerald  of  the  moss  on 
the  walls,  the  bright  brown  colour  of  the  river,  and  the 
rings  of  the  trout  where  he  rises  in  the  still,  deep  pool ; 
and  as  a  greyhen  sails  out  of  the  scrub  and  into  a 
pine  wood,  you  reflect  with  satisfaction  on  your 
new  Purdeys,  with  the  ejectors,  and  on  the  '  first-rate 
consignment'  of  Schultze  powder  with  which  your 
cartridges  are  loaded. 

But  here  you  are — arrived  !  The  sun  shines  brightly, 


94  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


the  breeze  blows  freshly,  and  there  is  no  emperor  or 
sultan  that  may  not  envy  your  feelings  as  you  cover 
the  short  mile  from  the  little  station  to  the  lodge  in  a 
useful  brown  dog-cart  with  a  fast-trotting  pony  in  the 
shafts. 

A  warm  welcome  from  your  host,  and  you  are  not 
long  in  slipping  into  your  shooting  things,  and  ere  the 
clock  has  struck  eleven  are  bowling  along  with  a  cheery 
party  to  the  moor.  As  you  step  on  to  the  heather, 
and  feel  the  true  moorland  breeze  in  your  face,  your  eye 
is  as  keen  and  clear  as  the  lens  of  a  microscope,  and 
crossing  the  plank  bridge  over  the  river  you  pause  to 
mark  in  the  brown  waters  flecked  with  snowy  foam  the 
swirl  where  the  big  fish  rose  only  yesterday,  after  the 
great  spate,  which  has  left  streamers  of  sodden  hay, 
dead  logs,  and  leafy  twigs  clinging  to  the  timbers  of 
the  bridge  and  the  overhanging  birches  at  the  side, 
twelve  feet  above  the  present  placid  level  of  the 
stream. 

Can  there  be  such  a  thing  as  toil  or  business,  as 
the  turmoil  of  party  strife  or  the  grasping  greed  of 
gain,  in  musty  chambers,  foetid  alleys,  and  paved  courts  ? 
It  would  be  difficult  to  believe  in  their  existence  as 
you  survey  the  heavenly  prospect  before  you  after 
climbing — somewhat  laboriously,  it  must  be  confessed 
— the  first  rounded  knoll  above  the  river,  and  paus- 


'THE  SCOTCH  MAIL'  95 

ing  to  watch  the  dogs  uncoupled  and  to  give  a  first 
eager  and  searching  glance  over  your  ground. 

In  the  foreground  the  trim  figures  in  grey  home- 
spun of  your  companions  and  the  keepers,  their  keen 
and  healthy  faces  relieved  against  the  peat  or  heather, 
the  polished  gun-barrels  glistening  in  the  sun,  the 
liver  and  the  white  dog  taking  their  first  scamper,  the 
sturdy  custodian  of  the  ponies  and  the  lunch,  the 
kilted  boy  with  the  other  couple  of  dogs,  the  seedling 
birches  and  feathery  young  larches  of  the  moor  edge 
flickering  in  the  golden  light  of  the  August  noon,  to 
the  sound  of  the  steady  roar  of  the  great  fall  of  waters 
at  the  tail  of  the  pool  behind  you. 

Beyond,  the  colouring  is  gorgeous — away  for 
miles  the  slopes  and  shoulders,  the  knowes  and 
hollows  of  purple  and  pink  heather  stretch  to  where 
the  glassy  loch  lies  shimmering  under  the  solemn 
precipices  of  a  mighty  peak  with  an  historic  name. 
Supporting  him  on  either  side  are  ranged  the  rugged 
forms  of  his  giant  brethren — a  study  in  faint  grey  and 
blue,  with  here  and  there  a  patch  of  dwindling  snow 
to  tell  of  the  bitterness  of  the  recent  storm.  In  this 
glorious  amphitheatre  you  attack  your  sport.  The 
white  dog  comes  to  a  dead  point  on  your  side  of  a 
knoll,  and  is  beautifully  backed  by  the  liver-coloured 
bitch,  who  halts  on  a  great  piece  of  flat  rock  some 


96  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

seventy  yards  away,  a  motionless  and  perfect  picture. 
Three  grouse  rise,  you  kill  with  your  first,  and,  your 
host  courteously  waiting  to  let  you  deal  with  your  first 
right  and  left  alone,  strike  the  second  hard  but  under- 
neath, while  he  neatly  drops  the  third  bird — a  beautiful 
long  cross  shot. 

Exactly  sixteen  hours  from  the  time  you  were 
driving  through  Bloomsbury  you  have  killed  a  right 
and  left  of  Perthshire  grouse,  on  a  spot  which  fifty 
years  ago  would  have  taken  eight  days  to  reach,  if 
even  in  those  days  there  had  been  anyone  to  try  it. 

The  details  of  your  day's  sport,  so  well  known  in 
their  incidents,  we  will  not  follow.  After  a  glorious 
day,  very  weary,  but,  having  acquitted  yourself  well, 
supremely  contented,  what  more  delicious  than  the 
long  drive  home  down  the  glen,  the  moor  darkling 
on  either  side,  the  shadow  deepening  to  blackness 
as  you  wind  through  the  big  pine  wood  and  are 
shown  against  the  western  sky  the  capercailzie  in 
their  accustomed  place  on  the  giant  larch  that  over- 
hangs the  road,  or  the  spot  where  the  greyhen  killed 
herself  against  the  carriage?  Turning  out  of  the 
wood  you  come  upon  all  the  glory  of  the  yellow 
moon,  just  rising  over  the  eastern  hill,  and  glittering  in 
the  waters  of  the  loch  ;  the  horses  quicken  their  pace, 
lights  twinkle  in  the  distance,  and  now  as  you  swing 


1THE  SCOTCH  MAIL'  97 

in  at  the  gate  of  the  lodge  grounds  a  savoury  whiff 
courts  your  nostrils  from  the  shining  kitchen  window, 
while  as  you  turn  the  corner  to  the  door  the  first 
skirl  of  the  pipes  warns  you  that  it  is  already  half- 
past  eight,  the  ladies  are  waiting,  and  you  must  be 
quick  down  to  dinner. 

A  journey  such  as  I  have  tried  to  describe  is  only 
one  of  the  many  combinations  which  English  brains 
and  love  of  sport  have  rendered  not  only  possible  but 
usual.  Truly  the  red  grouse  is  responsible  for  many 
things  in  these  days,  and,  let  envious  or  ignorant 
persons  sneer  as  they  may,  will  continue  to  be  so  for 
many  years  to  come— until,  in  short,  some  one  cleverer 
than  the  rest  of  the  world  invents  a  means  of  driving 
a  plough  through  a  peat  bog,  or  dragging  a  harrow 
across  the  rocky  glens  of  Scotland  and  the  north  of 
England. 

The  grouse  has  his  influence  over  politics,  as 
we  are  constantly  reminded  ;  over  trade  and  railway 
enterprise ;  and  last,  but  not  least,  over  the  well-being 
and  prosperity  of  a  large  proportion  of  our  population. 
The  moors  are  to  an  Englishman  what  '  les  eaux '  are 
to  the  Frenchman,  or  the  Alps  to  an  Italian.  Even 
the  wealthy  Frenchman  and  the  Italian  are,  with  the 
millionaire  American  or  Austrian  prince,  to  be  found 
pouring  their  gold  into  the  pockets  of  the  Highlander, 


98  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


in  pursuit  of  the  hardy  and  succulent  race  of  birds 
which  will  soon  represent  the  only  British  monopoly 
in  the  world,  and  which  are  known  as  grouse. 

Observe  the  scientific  knowledge,  the  inventive 
power,  the  practical  resource,  and  the  financial  enter- 
prise which  go  to  make  up  every  detail  of  the 
marvellous  journey  from  the  south  to  the  north  of 
Great  Britain.  Short  as  it  may  seem  to  the  man  from 
New  York  or  Chicago,  it  is  still  in  moral  and  material 
detail  the  most  remarkable  piece  of  travelling  in  the 
world.  And  what  has  produced  this?  Not  all  the 
beauties  of  Edinburgh  nor  all  the  factories  and 
furnaces  of  Glasgow;  not  the  enterprise  of  Dundee 
nor  the  fisheries  of  Aberdeen  ;  nay,  neither  the 
Trossachs  nor  the  Pass  of  Killiecrankie,  the  snows  of 
Ben  Nevis  nor  the  depths  of  Loch  Lomond,  but 
grouse,  grouse  and  nothing  else  ! 

It  would  be  idle  to  attempt  to  forecast  the  political 
condition  of  these  crowded  islands  in  the  next  century, 
but  of  this  I  think  we  may  be  tolerably  certain — that 
so  long  as  the  everlasting  hills  remain  as  they  are, 
until,  in  short,  some  unthought-of  metal,  some  un- 
expected industry  arises  to  people  their  glens,  tunnel 
their  heights,  and  crush  their  rocks,  so  long  will 
grouse  remain  a  potent  factor  in  the  internal  economy 
of  the  northern  portion  of  our  race. 


'  THE  SCOTCH  MAIL  '  99 

It  is  notoriously  difficult  to  get  a  straight  answer 
from  a  Scotchman,  but  this  year,  in  conversation  with 
a  very  intelligent  specimen  of  the  Highlander,  who 
was,  by  the  way,  an  enthusiastic  supporter  of  Mr. 
Gladstone,  the  replies  that  I  elicited  to  my  very  direct 
questions  were  so  emphatic  in  favour  of  the  existing 
state  of  things,  founded  on  his  own  intimate  know- 
ledge, that  I  wished  some  of  those  narrow  city  dwellers, 
feeble  in  body  and  spiteful  and  envious  in  mind,  who 
so  far  as  they  dare  attack  everything  in  the  nature  of 
sport  and  amusement,  could  have  heard  him  on  this 
well-worn  subject. 

He  would  have  none  of  the  small  crofter,  who 
starves  himself  and  his  family  for  a  false  sentiment 
which  ties  him  to  the  barren  rock  or  spongy  morass 
which  never  can  support  them  ;  he  was  all  in  favour 
of  the  large  grazing  farm  of  many  thousand  acres,  and 
of  the  wealthy  sporting  tenant  from  the  South,  who 
comes  to  distribute  his  guineas  and  to  repeople  the 
once  famine-stricken  glen.  The  men,  he  urged  with 
vehement  sincerity  and  actual  knowledge,  who  clamour 
for  the  small  holdings,  have  not  the  means  to  stock 
them,  nor  those  who  encourage  them  the  knowledge 
to  show  them  how  to  do  it.  How  could  these  people 
divide  and  pasture  a  hill,  command  a  market  for  their 
stock,  or  live  in  any  fashion  upon  their  allotted  piece 

H  2 


SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


of  ground  ?  Pointing  eloquently  to  the  ruins  of 
many  cottages  of  a  bygone  age,  high  up  the  glen  near 
the  burn-side,  he  discoursed  of  the  evils  of  the  starv- 
ing, hopeless  life  these  little  squatters  led,  and  truly 
observed  that  no  men  of  to-day  with  any  self-respect 
would  live  huddled  together  in  the  filth  and  smoke, 
and  half-nourished  on  the  snatches  of  meagre  food 
which  were  their  normal  conditions. 

Fewer  people,  he  said,  there  might  be  in  the  glen, 
but  there  would  after  the  first  abortive  trial  be  fewer 
still  were  the  rich  graziers  and  the  sporting  tenants, 
who  between  them  employ  so  many  hands  and  feed 
so  many  mouths,  to  be  chased  away,  and  their  places 
taken  by  a  lot  of  tag-rag  and  bob-tail  with  whom 
discontent  passes  for  independence,  and  insolvency 
for  liberty.  '  Long  live  the  grouse  ! '  he  cried  ;  '  they 
,do  not  interfere  with  sheep,  and  nothing  else,  save 
eagles  and  foxes,  hawks  and  stoats,  could  live  up  here.' 

I  have  dwelt  at  some  length  in  another  volume  of 
this  series  '  on  the  important  question  of  the  relations 
between  the  owner  or  sporting  tenant  with  the  humbler 
folk  who  become  his  neighbours  or  dependants  ;  on 
the  supreme  importance,  both  to  his  sport  and  to  the 
well-being  of  the  district,  of  goodwill  and  liberality  on 
his  part  and  co-operation  on  theirs  ;  and  I  was  rash 
1  Partridge,  p.  239. 


'THE  SCOTCH  MAIL'  101 

enough  to  appear  as  an  optimist  on  the  Game-law 
question.  What  I  said  of  English,  I  might  repeat 
more  securely  of  Scotch  sport.  The  value  of  game 
to  the  country  in  general — materially,  from  a  com- 
mercial point  of  view  ;  morally,  from  the  interests  and 
sympathies  it  tends  to  create  or  maintain  between 
members  of  different  classes — is  enormous,  and  since 
it  introduces  civilisation  and  material  prosperity  to 
the  most  remote  districts,  it  is  especially  so  in  the 
case  of  grouse. 

The  Scotch  mail,  running  at  lightning  speed  along 
its  well-laid  track,  with  all  its  luxuries  and  scientific 
appliances,  its  sleeping  or  dining  cars,  its  heating 
apparatus  and  lavatories,  its  air-brakes  and  electric 
bells,  its  magnificent  locomotives  and  trusty  servants, 
its  priceless  freights  and  distinguished  occupants,  is 
the  most  intrinsically  valuable  expression  of  this  state 
of  things. 

Long  may  it  continue  to  run ;  long  may  the  healthy 
attractions  of  the  most  picturesque  and  beautiful  of 
British  sports  continue  to  fill  its  compartments,  and 
help  the  dwellers  of  the  far  North  to  share  the  hard- 
earned  gold  of  England's  wealthier  citizens  ! 


SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


CHAPTER  II 

' OVER    DOGS  ' 

To  the  average  owner  or  tenant  of  a  Scotch  moor, 
grouse  shooting  means  '  over  dogs '  and  nothing  else. 
A  few  years  ago  such  was  the  onslaught  made  upon 
driving  and  its  partisans,  that  it  became  necessary  to 
take  up  the  cudgels  in  its  defence.  But  now  that  all 
Yorkshire,  Derbyshire,  and  Durham  have  adopted  it 
exclusively,  and  that  many  persons  in  Scotland  have 
followed  the  example  of  these  counties,  the  press  and 
the  public  recognise  that  it  is  useless  to  abuse  a  system 
which  those  interested  almost  universally  employ. 

In  treating  this  subject  I  have  been  obliged  to  re- 
cord my  honest  conviction  of  the  superiority  of  driving 
as  an  art,  as  well  as  of  its  advantages  to  the  general 
stock  of  birds.  But  in  a  work  of  this  kind  one  must 
endeavour  to  be  just  all  round,  and  recognise  the  fact 
that  there  are  many  persons,  some  of  them  excellent 
shots  and  sportsmen,  who  would  not  on  any  account 
abandon  the  ancient  and  beautiful  sport  of  shooting 


OVER  DOGS'  103 


grouse  over  dogs,  or  to  whom  the  organisation  of 
drives  would  be  neither  convenient  nor  practicable. 

As  a  youth  I  duly  graduated  with  Don  and  Ponto, 
'  Wallass '  and  Lady  on  the  higher  moors  of  Forfar, 
Perth,  and  Aberdeen,  and  approached  a  point  with 
as  much  keenness  as  ever  Colonel  Hawker  felt  when 
sculling  to  a  bunch  of  fowl  on  the  ooze  of  Key- 
haven,  or  advancing  on  a  covey  in  the  sheltering 
stubbles  of  Longparish.  Yet  when  I  had  been  intro- 
duced to  the  increased  excitement,  the  superior  marks- 
manship, the  ampler  results,  and  the  more  picturesque 
aspect  of  the  birds  in  Yorkshire  driving,  I  became 
contemptuous  of  those  who  were  content  to  plod  day 
by  day  after  their  dogs  for  a  much  smaller  number 
of  comparatively  easy  shots.  But  one  grows  more 
catholic  with  age.  I  have  had  many  pleasant  days 
since  then  with  other  Dons  and  Pontos,  and  should 
regret  as  much  as  anyone  to  see  the  extinction  of  so 
valuable  a  race  of  dogs,  or  the  complete  abandonment 
of  so  picturesque  a  science. 

I  recall  few  days'  shooting  with  greater  pleasure 
than  a  bag  of  fifty-three  brace  to  my  own  gun,  which 
I  made  on  September  23, 1872,  on  the  late  Sir  Charles 
Forbes's  moor  in  Strathdon,  Aberdeenshire,  after  many 
hundreds  of  brace  had  been  taken  off  the  ground  by 
both  driving  and  walking  ;  and  that,  considering  the 


104  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

date,  was  a  satisfactory  performance.  There  is  nothing 
in  it,  perhaps,  even  worth  recording  ;  yet  the  fact  re- 
mains that  it  is  graven  on  my  memory  as  a  red-letter 
day,  and  ranks  in  my  reminiscences  of  varieties  of 
shooting  with  some  of  the  best  days  of  driving  in 
which  I  have  ever  taken  part. 

Shooting  as  practised  in  England  is,  on  the  whole, 
less  selfish  than  most  other  forms  of  sport,  yet  it  is 
also  tinged  with  a  proportion  of  the  vice.  I  may,  there- 
fore, be  forgiven  for  saying  that  I  think  grouse  shoot 
ing  over  dogs  is  eminently  a  sport  which  is  best 
enjoyed  alone — that  is,  by  one  gun  only.  It  is  true 
that  the  party  of  two  is  the  more  correct  form,  granted 
that  the  pair  work  together  absolutely  without  jealousy, 
and  with  exact  knowledge  of  one  another's  powers. 
But  these  conditions  are  rare,  and  it  is  not  too  much 
to  say  that  in  no  branch  of  shooting  are  greater 
sacrifices  of  result  made  to  the  essential  qualities  of 
courtesy  and  consideration  for  the  capacity  of  your 
companion.  If  two  guns  can  kill  forty  brace  over 
dogs,  you  may  be  quite  certain  that  the  better  of  the 
two  could  have  killed  thirty  brace,  if  not  more,  over 
the  same  ground  on  the  same  day.  A  good  hand  at 
the  work  can,  if  he  chooses  to  set  aside  the  unwritten 
laws  of  politeness  and  fair  play,  take  so  much  advan- 
tage of  an  inferior  hand  as  to  practically  absorb  all 


'OVER  DOGS'  105 

the  chances,  and  obtain  what  satisfaction  he  may 
from  achieving  much  the  larger  share  of  the  bag.  But 
a  few  hints  may  help  a  man  who  is  not  an  adept  to 
avoid  finding  himself  always  in  the  position  of  second 
best,  or  trying  too  severely  the  temper  or  good  manners 
of  his  more  accomplished  companion. 

We  will  suppose  that  your  dogs  are  well  handled  and 
steady,  and  that  there  is  a  fairly  good  scent,  a  breezy, 
pleasant  day,  and  enough  birds  on  the  ground  to 
reward  you  for  hard  work  and  good  shooting,  while 
— for  it  is  the  object  of  this  work  to  assist,  if  pos- 
sible, those  who  have  something  to  learn — you  are 
alongside  a  man  who  is  much  your  superior,  possibly 
a  past  master  of  the  art.  The  first  thing  to  note  care- 
fully and  incessantly  is  the  wind.  This  you  must 
bear  in  mind  all  the  time  ;  otherwise,  when  you  see  a 
point,  you  will  be  quite  at  sea  as  to  where  the  birds 
are  likely  to  be  lying.  There  is  no  doubt  that  a 
wind  blowing  across  the  ground  you  are  beating  is 
altogether  the  best  ;  and  supposing  that  you  have 
as  your  allotted  beat  the  long  'face'  of  a  hill,  with 
cultivated  ground  or  pasture  along  the  lower  side,  and 
the  march  on  or  just  over  the  ridge  on  the  upper,  with 
the  wind  blowing  downwards,  it  will  be  best  to  begin 
at  the  bottom,  and  work  across  and  across  till  you 
have  beaten  the  whole  face,  and  pushed  all  the  birds 


106  SHOOTING   THE   GROUSE 

possible  forward.  You  will  thus  drive  them  mostly  on 
to  some  stretch  of  lower  ground  beyond,  which  will 
give  you  probably  your  best  sport  towards  evening. 
As  you  work  the  ground  in  this  way  the  birds  will 
obviously  be  always  lying  above,  that  is,  up  wind  of 
the  dog,  and  the  moment  you  see  him  point  you 
should  walk  in  a  slant  towards  the  ground  above  him, 
rather  than  straight  to  him  as  the  novice  would.  If 
you  do  the  latter,  and  your  friend  the  professor  is  on 
your  right,  he  will  cross  higher  up,  and  probably, 
while  appearing  to  let  you  go  straight  for  the  point 
and  the  best  chance,  walk  right  into  the  covey  and 
get  a  double  shot,  while  you,  though  still  level  with 
him,  are  yet  a  long  way  below  the  birds.  Again,  you 
must  watch  the  behaviour  of  the  dog  narrowly.  Should 
he  stop  very  suddenly  in  full  career,  turning  his  head 
slightly  back,  then  run  quickly  a  few  yards,  do  the 
same  thing  again,  but  appear  unsteady  and  inclined 
to  hunt  further,  he  is  probably  up  wind  of  the  birds  ; 
in  which  case  walk  pretty  straight  to  where  he  first 
pointed.  If,  again,  he  simply  points  very  steadily,  go 
slowly  up  to  him,  a  little  up  wind  as  before ;  if  he 
draws  rather  rapidly  and  keenly  ahead,  get  after  him 
— slanting  your  course  up  wind  of  him — as  quickly  as 
you  can.  These  will  be  wild  birds,  probably  old 
ones,  whom  it  is  most  desirable  to  destroy,  and  they 


'OVER  DOGS'  107 


will  be  running  or  creeping  uneasily  before  him,  most 
likely  working  up  wind  also.  In  this  case  you  may 
get  a  shot  by  fast  walking  or  running  where  you  would 
not  by  going  slowly.  Come  in  to  the  point  where  you 
can  across  the  wind  and  above  the  birds,  so  as  to  push 
them  forward  as  you  wish.  If  you  get  in  or  past  them 
from  below,  they  will  be  likely  to  go  up  to  the  ridge 
and  off  your  ground,  or  swing  back. 

Remember  that  a  bird  must  always  rise  with  his 
breast  up  wind,  especially  if  it  is  blowing  hard,  and 
that  there  is  no  more  killing  moment  than  when  he  is 
just  turning  to  go  down  the  wind  after  the  first  rise. 
To  be  ready  to  take  him  like  this,  or  in  fact  to  kill 
any  old  or  wild  bird,  you  must  have  your  gun  ready 
to  throw  to  the  shoulder  in  a  second,  and  must  study 
your  walking,  so  as  not  to  be  stumbling  when  he  gets 
up.  Husband  your  wind  and  your  strength,  especially 
in  the  early  part  of  the  day,  as  much  as  you  can  ;  and 
fear  not  to  take  a  good  long  rest  at  luncheon  time,  for 
the  sake  of  your  men,  dogs,  grouse,  and  yourself.  Birds 
rest  in  the  heat  of  the  day,  and  the  scent  is  weak ; 
morning  and  evening,  but  evening  especially,  is  the 
time  to  make  a  bag. 

On  the  same  piece  of  ground,  should  the  lower 
side  be  bounded  by  the  burn  only,  with  good  lying 
on  the  other  side,  it  will  be  better  to  work  the  face 


IDS  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


longways,  taking  a  long  beat  along  the  lower  side  first, 
coming  back  almost  on  the  empty  ground  and  then 
repeating  the  manoeuvre,  just  as  you  would  often  do 
in  a  turnip  field  when  you  wish  to  push  partridges 
forward.  Again,  if  the  wind  be  blowing  exactly  the 
reverse  way — that  is,  up  hill — I  should  advise  taking 
the  top  beat  first,  or  at  least  working  the  top  side  most 
as  you  cross  and  wheel,  so  as  to  protect  the  march. 
What  I  have  suggested  here  applies  when  you  have  a 
long  hill-face  to  beat,  perhaps  the  simplest  as  well  as  the 
most  frequent  formation  of  grouse  ground  in  Scotland. 
But  when  you  have  to  beat  an  area  of  flat  or  undulating 
moorland  above  the  hill-face,  it  is  better  to  get  straight 
to  the  higher  part  of  the  ground  first.  Grouse  lie 
on  higher  ground  during  fine  weather,  and  you  must 
break  them  up  on  this,  so  as  to  deal  with  them  later 
on  when  scattered  on  the  lower  ground.  But  in  what 
I  may  term  '  mixed  weather '  they  will  be  more  on 
higher  ground  during  the  morning  and  middle-day 
than  in  the  evening.  In  very  wild,  stormy,  and  wet 
weather,  you  had  best,  for  the  sake  of  your  moor,  not 
be  out  at  all ;  but  if  you  are,  it  will  depend  entirely 
upon  your  observation  of  how  the  sheltered  spots  lie 
whether  you  get  a  bag  or  not.  When  the  wind  is  very 
strong  there  is  absolutely  no  chance  of  your  finding 
broods  lying  on  the  windy  side  of  a  hillock  or  ridge. 


•OVER  DOGS'  109 


An  odd  old  cock  you  will  disturb  sometimes  from 
the  most  exposed  places,  and  this  I  have  never  been 
able  to  explain,  except  on  the  theory  that  he  has  heard 
you  coming  from  afar  off,  and  run  on  to  the  exposed 
ground  to  look  around  for  you.  But  then,  again,  these 
odd  birds  in  exposed  places  sometimes  lie  very  close, 
and  rise  with  such  a  cackle  as  almost  disturbs  your 
nerves,  so  that  we  must  suppose  they  have  been  able  to 
find  some  special  little  bit  of  warm  shelter  which  suits 
them,  although  on  the  windward  side.  But  the  bulk 
of  the  birds,  and  all  the  broods,  will  be  found  lying 
with  some  protecting  ridge  or  hillock  sheltering  them 
from  the  wind.  In  perfectly  calm,  still  weather  you 
may  almost  do  as  you  like,  beating  the  ground  regu- 
larly and  extra  closely,  and  so  crossing  it  as  to  push 
the  grouse  on  to  the  part  you  reserve  for  the  late 
afternoon,  with  the  proviso  that  you  take  the  higher 
ground  first.  But  whenever  there  is  a  breeze, "and 
still  more  when  it  is  blowing  really  hard,  the  science 
of  making  a  good  bag  of  grouse,  given  that  you  can 
walk  and  shoot  well,  is  entirely  a  question  of  the  con- 
stant study  and  observation  of  the  wind.  Remember 
that  your  dogs  rely  on  it  entirely — you  must  therefore 
bear  it  in  mind,  so  as  to  understand  their  movements  ; 
your  birds  are  guided  by  it  in  their  choice  of  lying,  in 
their  method  of  rising,  and  in  their  eventual  flight ; 


no  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

while  your  keeper,  especially  if  Scotch,  bases  his 
entire  scheme  and  conduct  of  the  day's  shooting 
mainly  upon  the  same  factor.  A  Scotchman  reckons 
by  the  compass— he  never  thinks  of  alluding  to  the 
right  or  left  of  anything,  but  guides  himself,  and  at- 
tempts to  guide  you,  by  North  and  South,  East  and 
West.  You  must  be  guided  by  the  same  instinct  to 
this  extent  that,  whether  E.  or  W.,  N.  or  S.,  you  must 
bear  in  mind  constantly  as  you  follow  your  dog  the 
direction  of  the  wind,  and  the  effect  it  is  having  upon 
the  manner  of  his  hunting,  as  well  as  upon  the  move- 
ments of  the  grouse. 

When  you  are  following  your  dog  directly  up  wind, 
should  the  ground  rise  directly  in  front  of  him  get  past 
him  as  noiselessly  as  possible,  and  as  you  peep  over  the 
ridge  have  your  gun  absolutely  ready,  and  look  out  for 
a  rise  directly  you  show  your  nose  over  it.  You  will, 
in  wild  weather  at  least,  get  a  difficult  twisting  shot, 
which  you  will  be  pleased  to  kill.  If  under  the  same 
circumstances  you  make  any  noise,  or  there  is  any 
calling  or  whistling  to  the  dog,  you  will  see  nothing 
when  you  look  over,  but  possibly  a  distant  bird  or 
covey,  noiselessly  skimming  out  of  sight ;  or,  if  you 
are  not  quite  ready  and  smart,  as  you  look  over  you 
will  be  beaten  by  the  unexpected  and  tortuous  flight 
of  an  old  cock  as  he  dashes  away  from  you. 


OVER  DOGS' 


The  variations  of  pace  or  direction  in  which  you 
approach  the  point  must  necessarily  be  founded  more 
on  experience  and  the  true  instinct  of  the  hunter,  than 
on  anything  that  can  be  taught ;  but  the  novice  may 
at  least  be  warned  that  he  cannot  rely  upon  the  keeper 
and  the  dog,  even  when  aided  by  good  shooting,  ex- 
clusively to  make  the  best  bag  possible.  Rapidity 
and  silence  in  getting  to  the  point  are  very  essential. 
Supposing  the  dog  to  be  young  and  not  very  steady, 
he  will  draw  on  the  birds,  and  in  a  few  moments  pro- 
bably get  too  close  to  them  and  put  them  up  if  they 
are  sitting  very  light.  You  will  say  he  can  be  checked 
by  whistle  or  by  the  familiar  '  To-ho  ! '  and  you  can 
get  up  to  them  at  your  leisure.  But  they  will  pro- 
bably be  flushed  by  this  noise  before  you  get  there; 
whereas,  if  you  can  get  up  to  the  dog  very  quickly  and 
without  any  noise  of  any  kind,  you  may  get  your  double 
shot,  and  the  dog,  even  if  he  runs  in  on  them  at  the 
last,  can  be  chastised  afterwards.  No  dog  is  worth 
anything  unless  he  will  stand  without  even  the  up- 
lifted hand;  and  to  my  thinking  many  a  one  is  spoilt 
by  being  so  used  to  this  sign  and  the  ejaculation  of 
'  Ho  ! '  that  he  does  not  believe  in  the  necessity  of 
standing  steady  unless  he  hears  it.  This  accounts 
for  the  loss  of  a  great  many  chances,  and  for  the  too 
frequent  cry  of  '  Hold  up  !  gone  away  ! '  which  assails 


112  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


your  disappointed  ears  when  you  come  upon  a  bit  of 
sheltered  lying  where  the  dog  has  been  ranging  for  a 
moment  or  two  out  of  sight.  Unless,  therefore,  your 
dog  is  absolutely  to  be  relied  on  to  stand  steady,  you 
must,  however  much  it  may  try  your  legs  and  wind, 
continually  keep  him  in  sight.  This  is  frequently  left 
to  the  keeper  by  the  deliberate  or  indolent  shooter. 
The  dog  disappears  over  a  ridge,  the  keeper,  becom- 
ing uneasy,  runs  swiftly  and  looks  over,  sees  the  dog 
drawing  on  birds,  and  immediately  up  goes  the  hand, 
and  '  Ho  ! '  he  shouts.  But  the  movements  of  the 
dog,  the  man's  appearance  on  the  skyline,  and  the 
shout  are  too  much,  and  they  are  off.  If  you  can 
get  to  the  ridge  and  be  down  alongside  the  dog  quickly 
enough  the  instant  you  see  he  has  birds,  you  will  very 
likely  get  your  brace,  where  the  slow  man  would  have 
got  nothing  and  never  even  seen  the  covey.  On  the 
other  hand,  especially  in  broken  ground  and  deep 
heather,  you  cannot  be  too  deliberate  in  quitting  the 
ground  where  you'  have  found  close-sitting  birds,  or 
you  may  leave  more  than  one  easy  certainty  at  a  fine 
young  bird  from  want  of  hunting  carefully  enough  all 
round. 

Some  men  seem  to  have  almost  as  keen  an  instinct 
as  to  whether  there  are  birds  near  them  as  the  dog, 
and  this  can  hardly  be  acquired,  though  close  watch- 


'OVER   DOGS'  113 

ing  of  the  habits  of  pointers  or  setters  and  their 
manner  of  hunting  the  ground  will  teach  you  much. 
Often  when  you  have  found  birds  up  wind  of  the  dog, 
especially  if  it  is  blowing  pretty  hard,  it  is  worth  while 
to  make  a  cast  back  to  see  whether  he  has  not  struck 
the  scent  between  two  lots  of  birds,  and  whether  there 
are  not  some  more  of  them  down  wind  of  him.  Espe- 
cially must  all  these  points  be  attended  to  when  you 
are  hunting  the  ground  which  you  have  filled  by 
driving  broken  coveys  and  scattered  birds  on  to  it. 
Towards  evening  every  bit  of  such  ground  must  be 
carefully  searched,  and  you  will  soon  acquire  an  eye 
for  the  likely  patches  for  grouse  to  lie  in.  Activity 
and  judgment  are  also  much  required  when,  as  often 
happens  on  high  ground,  you  have  to  work  an  area 
of  deep  moss-hags  with  steep  sides  of  yielding  peat, 
and  intersected  by  little  ravines,  which,  powdered  with 
stones  and,  maybe,  ancient  roots,  look  like  portions 
of  the  bed  of  some  primaeval  flood.  Grouse  on  this 
sort  of  ground  rarely  lie  well,  being  mostly  old  birds, 
or,  if  not,  being  on  the  move  themselves  from  one 
hillock  to  the  other,  and  here  you  will  do  twice  as 
much  execution  if  you  utilise  the  ground  in  your 
pursuit.  Keep  as  much  as  you  can  on  the  tops  of 
the  hillocks,  leaping  from  one  to  the  other;  or,  on  the 
contrary,  if  you  see  a  doubtful  or  uneasy  point,  and 

i 


II4  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

the  ground  favours  you,  running  along  between  the 
hags,  keeping  carefully  off  the  stones,  and  so  getting 
noiselessly  and  rapidly  up  to  the  dog. 

In  all  these  instances  it  will  be  observed  how  very 
difficult  it  becomes  for  two  guns  to  work  harmoniously 
together  so  as  to  realise  the  best  possible  result ;  but 
at  least  it  should  be  agreed  between  them  that,  where- 
ever  speed  is  necessary,  the  man  nearest  to  the  point 
should  get  to  it  without  waiting  for  the  other — other- 
wise many  chances  must  be  lost.  The  two  shooters 
should,  therefore,  be  as  evenly  matched  as  possible. 
I  think,  where  two  parties  go  out  on  separate 
beats,  it  is  better  to  send  the  two  better  or  more 
active  and  the  two  slower  together;  each  pair  will 
enjoy  their  day  more  than  on  the  mistaken  principle 
of  sending  a  good  gun  to  '  nurse  '  a  bad  one.  This, 
unless  they  are  both  angels  from  heaven,  is  a  trial  of 
temper  and  a  mortification  to  both. 

In  very  calm  warm  weather  at  the  beginning  of 
the  season,  where  the  cover  is  thick  and  the  birds 
plentiful  and  tame,  any  two  or  even  three  men  can 
take  turn  and  turn  about,  and  manage  the  amenities 
of  the  pursuit  as  easily  as  if  they  were  beating  a 
cabbage  garden  for  very  young  partridges  ;  but  this, 
though  much  affected  by  some  gentlemen  from  town, 
and  by  dog  producers — I  will  not  call  them  breakers 


'OVER  DOGS'  115 


— who  seem  to  think  more  of  their  beasts'  coats  or 
pedigrees  than  of  their  noses,  is  not  the  poetry  of 
shooting  over  dogs.  It  is  when  the  breeze  is  cool 
and  keen,  the  heather  wet  from  last  night's  rain,  or 
glistening  from  a  slight  touch  of  early  frost;  when  the 
distant  range  stands  like  Soracte,  toweringly  white 
with  snow;  when  the  burns  run  brown  and  full,  the 
oats  are  ripened,  and  the  hill-face  is  growing  redder 
and  more  golden;  when  the  river  trout  are  stiff  to  rise, 
and  the  blackcock  has  almost  his  full  tail — then  is  the 
time  when  to  follow  a  brace  of  good  dogs,  both  you 
and  they  in  first-rate  trim,  and  to  make  a  bag  of 
grouse,  is  worth  the  doing. 

For  this  reason,  revolutionary  as  it  may  seem,  I 
would,  supposing  that  you  wish  both  to  drive  and 
walk  your  ground,  drive  it  first  and  walk  it  afterwards. 
By  so  doing  you  will  spare  many  young  birds  which 
should  be  left  for  breeding,  you  will  get  more  shoot- 
ing and  less  waiting  and  exposure  for  your  drives,  and 
sport  better  worth  having  and  under  pleasanter  con- 
ditions, granted  you  pick  your  days,  for  your  shooting 
over  dogs. 

The  plugging  at  very  young  birds  in  the  early  days 
when  the  weather  is  hot,  and  many  of  them  could  be 
(or  are)  taken  by  the  keeper  with  his  hand,  when  dogs 
and  men  get  knocked  up  before  the  day  is  half  over, 

I  2 


n6  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

and  hardly  any  shot  you  get  is  any  satisfaction  to  kill, 
while  it  is  a  disgrace  to  miss,  is  not  to  my  thinking 
worthy  of  a  keen  sportsman  or  accomplished  gunner, 
unless  he  be  well  past  the  prime  of  life  and  merely 
takes  it  by  short  spells  as  an  agreeable  pastime.  On 
the  other  hand  this  is  a  pleasanter  time  for  your  driving 
parties,  and  the  waiting  in  the  butts,  always  a  trying 
operation,  is  at  least  not  made  worse  by  showers  of 
sleet  and  snow  or  biting  winds. 

After  your  driving  days  are  over,  in  bright  and 
cooler  weather,  when  it  is  easier  to  walk  and  your  con- 
dition is  better,  you  will  enjoy  your  day's  point  shoot- 
ing more  than  you  have  ever  done  on  the  Twelfth,  for 
every  point  will  test  your  dogs,  every  shot  will  try  your 
skill,  and  every  bird  will  be  worth  killing.  I  cannot 
believe,  judging  from  experience,  that  driving  will 
make  the  birds  so  wild  as  to  preclude  all  shooting 
over  dogs.  I  have  seen  many  a  good  day  over  dogs 
after  the  ground  had  been  driven  several  times,  and 
the  birds  lying  as  well,  on  a  favourable  day,  as  any 
one  need  wish;  and  I  am  convinced  that  driving  them 
does  not  make  them  any  wilder,  nor  so  wild,  as  con- 
stant walking  after  them  with  dogs. 

I  am  against  walking  the  moor  in  line.  This 
seems  to  be  neither  one  thing  nor  the  other  ;  it 
disturbs  a  large  extent  of  ground  and  terrifies  the 


'OVER  DOGS'  117 

birds,  while  the  result  is  usually  far  from  satisfactory 
as  to  the  bag  brought  home.  It  is  impossible  to  keep 
a  long  line  of  men,  extending,  say,  500  or  600  yards,  in 
proper  touch  with  one  another  on  rough  ground.  To 
preserve  the  formation  while  one  man  has  two  or 
three  birds  to  pick  up,  and  the  others,  far  away  from 
him,  are  too  anxious  to  walk  on,  is  usually  found  to  be 
impracticable,  and  the  whole  thing  ends  in  a  maraud 
more  worthy  of  a  gang  of  poachers  than  anything  else. 

I  shall  not  here  attempt  to  enter  into  the  ques- 
tion of  the  breeding,  selection,  or  breaking  of  dogs. 
It  is  abundantly  clear  that  to  go  out  to  make  a 
bag  of  grouse,  and  to  go  out  to  train  your  dogs, 
are  two  distinct  things,  and  your  dogs  should 
not  only  be  well  broken,  but  well  exercised  and  in 
good  condition,  before  you  attempt  a  serious  attack 
upon  your  game.  This  work  is  devoted  to  the  grouse 
and  not  to  the  dog,  and  therefore  I  trust  that  the 
only  apology  I  need  offer  is  for  want  of  ability  to  deal 
with  the  former  in  the  way  that  so  grand  a  bird 
deserves. 

I  confess  to  a  preference  for  pointers  where  birds 
are  plentiful  and  lying  is  good,  and  for  setters  under 
the  contrary  conditions,  from  their  wide-ranging 
powers,  and  because  I  am,  as  remarked  before,  a 
strong  advocate  of  rapidity  of  movement. 


Ii8  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

Three  guns  is  an  unreasonable  number  to  send 
out  in  one  party,  unless  you  have  an  abnormal  stock 
of  grouse,  and  are  anxious  to  kill  all  you  can.  The 
difficulties  of  dealing  properly  with  the  point,  of  getting 
up  at  the  right  moment,  of  all  three  shooting  at  the  same 
bird,  and  other  matters  of  varying  skill  and  courtesy, 
are  much  increased.  And  if  the  grouse  are  lying  well 
it  is  rather  hard  on  the  moor.  Yet  it  is  too  often 
done.  The  young  men  of  to-day  mostly  shoot  pretty 
well,  some  few  very  well,  and  at  any  rate  are  pretty 
destructive  at  close-lying  young  birds  ;  and  three  of 
them,  with  every  appliance  for  quick  loading  and  firing, 
will,  as  I  have  already  pointed  out  with  regard  to 
partridges,  kill  far  too  many  young  birds,  while  they 
are  more  than  likely  to  spare  most  of  the  old  ones. 
These  should  always  be  selected  where  possible  as 
your  first  victims,  and  I  think  that  when  you  are 
working  a  wild  beat  on  high  ground,  where  birds  are 
not  too  plentiful,  you  should  not,  when  you  come 
across  a  brood,  follow  it  up  to  the  death  and  massacre 
the  whole  family,  but  rather  deliberately  leave  a 
brace  of  young  birds  here  and  there,  and  turn  your 
attention  as  much  as  possible  to  the  more  difficult  and 
fascinating  art  of  circumventing  the  old  inhabitants  of 
the  ground,  my  opinion  of  whom  I  have  recorded  in 
the  chapter  on  Scotch  Driving.  The  following  extract 


'OVER  DOGS'  119 


from  Daniell's   '  Rural  Sports '  reads  quaintly  in  the 
present  day  : 

'To  shew  the  abundance,  rather  than  the  exploit 
itself  (which  by  a  Sportsman,  must  be  hoped  never 
will  be  repeated),  the  Earl  of  Strathmore's  Game- 
keeper was  matched  for  a  considerable  sum  to  shoot 
forty  brace  of  moor-game  in  the  course  of  the  i2th  of 
August  upon  his  Lordship's  moors  in  Yorkshire ;  he 
performed  it  with  great  ease,  shooting  by  two  o'clock 
forty-three  brace  ;  at  eight  in  the  morning,  owing  to 
a  thick  fog,  he  had  only  killed  three  birds,  however  the 
day  cleared  up  by  eleven,  and  the  work  of  slaughter 
went  on  rapidly.' 

What  would  the  Rev.  Mr.  Daniell  have  said  could 
he  have  lived  to  see  the  bags — more  than  once  of  over 
1,000  brace  in  a  day — which  have  since  been  made  on 
this  very  ground,  '  his  lordship's  moors  in  Yorkshire,' 
the  now  famous  Wemmergill  and  its  neighbours  ? 

We  hope  forty  brace  of  moor-game  in  a  day  may 
often  be  killed  again  ;  but  it  is  a  good  bag  even  now  to 
one  gun  over  dogs,  and  no  doubt  there  will  always  be  a 
sufficiency  of  men  able  and  willing  to  do  it  without 
forfeiting  the  title  of  '  sportsman.' 


SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


CHAPTER  III 

SCOTCH    DRIVING 

THERE  are  many  things  which  distinguish  grouse 
driving  in  Scotland  from  the  same  sport  in  England, 
and  some  difficulties  to  be  overcome  in  the  former 
country  which  are  not  ordinarily  met  with  in  the 
latter.  Nevertheless,  it  will  be  my  endeavour  to  show 
that  the  distinctions  inseparable  from  Scotch  driving 
merely  add  an  attractive  variety  to  the  sport,  and 
that  the  difficulties  are  by  no  means  insuperable. 

Ever  since  the  memorable  season  of  1872,  of  which 
more  hereafter,  and  which,  following  as  it  did  upon  two 
very  good  seasons  in  1870  and  1871,  finally  opened  the 
eyes  of  the  shooting  world  to  the  great  possibilities  of 
grouse,  my  opinion  has  been  that  on  a  very  consider- 
able number  of  Scotch  moors  a  scientific  and  practical 
system  of  driving,  such  as  has  been  in  force  in  York- 
shire for  years,  could  and  would  produce  results  to 
equal  the  totals  ordinarily  achieved  in  that  county, 


and  possibly  to  rival  those  of  the  most  famous  Eng- 
lish moors. 

I  have  often  been  opposed  in  this  view,  and 
even  ridiculed,  by  men  familiar  for  years  with  the 
conditions  of  what  I  may  call  an  ordinary  Scotch 
shooting,  and  even  by  some  whose  experience  em- 
braced a  large  measure  of  both  English  and  Scotch 
sport.  Yet  what  are  the  facts?  On  many  Scotch 
moors,  notably  in  Ayrshire,  where  driving  has  been 
taken  up  systematically  and  scientifically,  and  where 
shooting  over  dogs  has  been  abandoned,  such  respect- 
able bags  as  250  and  even  300  brace  in  a  day  have 
to  be  recorded  ;  while  even  as  I  write  comes  the  news 
of  a  bag  of  over  500  brace  in  one  day,  made  on  the 
moors  of  the  Mackintosh,  at  Moy,  in  Inverness-shire. 

There  are  three  principal  reasons  usually  adduced 
to  prove  that  driving  in  Scotland  cannot  be  carried 
out  with  ordinary  success,  still  less  to  the  point  arrived 
at  in  England  : 

1.  The  unfavourable  nature  of  the  ground. 

2.  The    opposition    or    unwillingness   of   Scotch 
keepers. 

3.  The  difficulty  of  obtaining  drivers. 

The  last  of  these  is  in  most  instances  the  only  one 
that  constitutes  a  serious  source  of  trouble,  and  this 
only  applies  to  sparsely  populated  districts,  where  the 


122  SHOOTING   THE    GROUSE 

few  inhabitants  are  obliged  to  take  advantage  of 
every  moment  of  fine  weather  for  their  hay  or  corn 
harvest. 

I  propose  to  consider  these  objections  in  detail, 
and  try  to  point  out  how  they  may  be  best  overcome. 

There  are  no  doubt  localities  where  the  precipitous 
ground,  intersected  with  deep  ravines,  and  powdered 
with  great  rocks  as  though  cast  from  a  giant's  hand, 
precludes  any  attempt  at  driving,  excepting  in  a  limited 
and  desultory  fashion,  merely  to  give  a  day  or  two  of 
variety.  It  is  also  superfluous  to  observe  that  where 
the  grouse  moor  is  merely  a  slight  fringe  to  the  higher 
ground  or  deer  forest,  driving  need  not  be  considered. 
But  putting  such  districts  out  of  the  question,  the 
great  majority  of  Scotch  moors  are  what,  if  I  may  coin 
a  word  for  the  purpose,  I  should  call  '  drivable.' 

More  than  this,  there  are  many  which  are  more 
suitable  for  driving,  and  would  yield  larger  bags,  than 
a  second-rate  Yorkshire  moor.  We  are,  of  course,  not 
here  considering  the  comparative  attractions  or  merits 
of  driving  as  compared  with  shooting  over  dogs,  but 
assuming  that  the  owner  or  lessee  of  a  moor  in  Scot- 
land would  like  to  drive  his  grouse,  and  thereby 
improve  his  stock,  but  considers  himself  prevented 
by  one  or  more  of  the  difficulties  I  have  named. 

It   is   a  very  common   error  to  suppose  that   all 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  123 


Yorkshire,  Durham,  or  Derbyshire  moors  are  quite 
flat,  consisting  entirely  of  heather  at  a  certain  elevation 
no  doubt  above  the  cultivated  districts,  but  which,  once 
reached,  stretches  far  and  wide  in  a  series  of  very  gentle 
undulations  or  perfectly  flat  tableland.  A  journey 
along  the  Settle  and  Carlisle  branch  of  the  Midland 
Railway,  or  a  tour  over  the  moors  on  the  borders  of 
Yorkshire,  Durham,  and  Westmoreland,  will  soon 
dispel  this.  The  gills,  sikes,  and  becks  of  these 
counties  are  comparable  to  the  glens  and  burns  of 
bonnie  Scotland,  and  the  sources  of  the  Ribble  and 
the  Wharfe,  the  Swale  and  the  Ure,  the  Tees  or  the 
Wear,  owe  their  wildest  recesses  to  volcanic  convul- 
sions hardly  less  violent  than  those  which  witnessed 
the  birth  of  the  Dee  and  the  Spey,  the  Tay  and  the 
Tummel.  Yet  these  southern  rivers  spring  from 
and  find  their  course  through  the  heart  of  the  most 
famous  of  the  English  moors,  where  more  grouse 
have  been  killed  in  one  day  than  many  a  Scotch 
keeper  looks  for  in  a  whole  season. 

Again,  the  low  moors  of  Ayr,  Dumfries,  or  Lanark, 
as  well  as  of  parts  of  Perth,  Aberdeen,  or  Inverness, 
are  richer  in  wide  expanse  of  rolling  flat  and  typical 
driving  ground  than  many  of  the  dales  and  fells  of 
Cumberland,  Westmoreland,  or  the  North  Riding. 

'  Ah,  but,'  says  one,  '  my  moor  isn't  like  that  ;  you 


124  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

couldrit  drive  my  ground,  it  is  too  steep.'  This  may 
be  so,  although  he  is  probably  mistaken  ;  but  it  is 
impossible  to  know  the  particulars  and  comparative 
conditions  of  every  moor  in  Scotland  and  England. 
Nobody's  knowledge  would  be  sufficient  for  this  ;  one 
can  only  consider  the  general  characteristics  of  a 
district.  I  only  know  that  I  have  heard  this  sort  of 
speech  from  men  who  rent  shootings  in  a  district 
where  the  conformation  of  the  ground  is  far  more 
favourable  to  driving  than  many  a  Yorkshire  dale, 
and  that  merely  looking  from  the  train  window  on 
the  Caledonian,  the  Glasgow  and  South-Western, 
ay,  and  on  the  Highland  line,  you  will  see  miles 
upon  miles  of  gentle  slope  and  broad  hill-face  clothed 
in  luxuriant  heather  which  to  a  Yorkshire  keeper's 
eye  would  look  ideal  ground  for  driving. 

The  very  inequalities  of  the  moor,  when  properly 
turned  to  account  in  conjunction  with  the  habitual 
flight  of  the  birds,  give  opportunities  which  would  not 
be  detected  by  those  unaccustomed  to  study  ground 
as  well  as  grouse  with  this  object  in  view.  Where 
the  moor  is  very  rocky,  and  the  small  '  knowes '  or 
knolls  of  heather  are  alternated  with  miniature  preci- 
pices and  ravines,  furrowed  and  scored  with  the  rush 
of  melting  snow,  or  swept  bare  by  the  plenteous 
volume  of  the  summer  spate,  you  will  find  the  grouse 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  125 

acquire  habits  peculiar  to  the  class  of  ground,  habits 
which,  if  you  observe  them,  you  can  turn  greatly  to 
the  advantage  of  your  driving.  They  select  rather 
bare  and  rocky  spots  for  their  alighting  and  surveying 
places,  and  when  disturbed  from  basking  or  feeding 
on  lower  and  more  sheltered  ground  they  fly  to  these, 
and  almost  always  by  the  same  route,  according  to  the 
wind.  I  have  had  a  very  fine  drive  with  hardly  a  bit 
of  heather  near  me,  surrounded  by  frowning  precipices 
and  huge  boulders,  and  sheltered  by  a  butt  formed  ot 
the  great  stones  scattered  in  profusion  all  over  the 
upper  slopes  of  the  hill. 

Again,  when  grouse  are  pushed,  as  they  often  can 
be,  across  a  deep  ravine  or  narrow  glen,  soaring  high 
over  the  low  birch  scrub  and  bracken,  haunts  of  the 
black-game  and  the  roe,  you  will  see  if  you  watch  them 
carefully — but  very  carefully — that  they  only  alight  in 
certain  spots  on  the  opposite  hill,  or  that,  having  a 
rough  and  rocky  ridge  to  pass  over,  they  invariably 
select  certain  passes  or  gullies  to  rush  through  to  the 
same  resting  place. 

Here  is  your  chance.  Your  batteries  must  be 
carefully  placed  just  behind,  not  on  the  ridge,  each 
one  preferably  in  a  slight  hollow  or  pass  rather  than 
on  a  knoll,  and  you  will  be  surprised  at  the  result. 
Unlike  the  typical  grouse  ground  as  this  spot  may 


126  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

appear,  and  though  you  find  no  birds  sitting  on  or 
near  the  butts  as  you  approach  them,  yet  as  the  far-off 
holloa  of  the  drivers  sounds  more  frequent,  round  the 
rocks  they  begin  to  come,  swinging  through  the  passes 
at  a  terrific  pace  with  the  wind,  or  beating  slowly  and 
heavily  against  it,  seeming  to  grow  mysteriously  out  of 
the  rock  in  front,  and  vanishing  like  lightning  over 
the  grey  knoll  behind,  yet  always  making  for  the  same 
place,  until  you  find  by  experience  that,  in  proportion 
to  the  birds  upon  the  moor,  your  rock  or  ravine  drive 
is  always  one  of  the  best  and  most  certain. 

The  march  between  two  moors  is,  in  Scotland, 
usually  on  the  ridge  or  watershed,  although  you  will 
often  find  it  defined  by  a  river  or  a  road.  Where  it  is 
on  the  ridge,  the  shooting  will  probably  consist  of  both 
sides  of  some  great  glen,  with  the  fiat  or  rocky  ground 
above  the  '  face,'  stretching  as  far  as  the  highest 
point  of  the  watershed.  Now,  grouse  are  very  loth  to 
fly  across  a  big  valley,  especially  if  it  is  cultivated,  and 
should  the  distance  from  face  to  face  cost  them  a 
flight  of  a  mile  or  more  they  will  hardly  ever  attempt 
it.  I  have  seen  a  biggish  pack  of  grouse  start  across 
a  broad  valley,  where  they  would  have  had  to  go  two  or 
three  miles  before  they  could  again  alight  upon  heather, 
fly  about  half  a  mile,  funk  it,  and  turn  back  again  to 
the  hill  they  were  disturbed  on.  Their  inclination  is 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  127 

always  to  fly  along  the  hill,  and  round  the  bottom  or 
side  of  a  knoll,  whether  great  or  small,  rather  than  over 
or  across  it.  It  is  very  wonderful  to  see  how  they 
save  themselves  in  their  flight,  especially  when  they 
are  going  against  a  heavy  wind.  Could  you  be  along- 
side of  them,  and  travelling  with  them,  you  would  note 
the  marvellous  way  in  which  they  give  themselves  the 
benefit  of  the  ground  to  escape  rising  into  the  wind, 
passing  round  all  the  excrescences  and  through  all 
the  depressions  in  the  hillside,  clinging  close  to  the 
heather,  but  always  manoeuvring,  sidling,  or  creeping 
to  reach  the  alighting  place  which  they  have  in  view. 

This  characteristic  will  aid  you  greatly  in  the  choice 
of  the  place  for  your  line  of  butts,  which,  as  everybody 
now  knows,  is  the  important  factor  in  driving.  The 
birds  are  not  likely  to  leave  the  hillside  on  which 
you  find  them  ;  consequently  you  have  only  to  study 
the  routes  they  will  take  in  flying  along  it. 

If  the  ground  is  so  intersected  by  rocks,  precipices, 
or  deep  gorges  that  your  drivers  cannot  travel  it  at 
all — at  least,  without  consuming  the  whole  day  in  one 
or  two  drives — you  may  give  it  up  ;  but  if  your  men 
can  manage  to  get  about  the  ground  so  as  to  give 
you,  say,  at  least  four  or  five  drives  in  the  day,  there  is 
nothing  in  the  flight  of  the  birds  on  steep  ground 
that  you  may  not  turn  to  your  advantage. 


128  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


One  often  meets  with  a  drive  in  Scotland  where 
the  grouse  and  black-game  come  over  the  guns  at  such 
a  height  that  no  shot  will  reach  them ;  and  you  are 
told  that  this  hill  is  impossible  to  drive,  as  the  birds 
always  do  this  ;  nobody  can  kill  them,  and  there  is  no 
result.  This  is  a  wrong  conclusion.  It  merely  means 
that  the  guns  are  not  in  the  right  place.  These  birds 
must  touch  the  ground  somewhere,  and  when  you 
have  found  their  point  of  contact  with  the  earth,  or 
alighting  place,  then  you  have  found  the  spot  where 
you  can  kill  them. 

It  is  only  with  the  wind  or  on  a  perfectly  still  day 
that  they  will  trust  themselves  thus  in  mid-air,  and 
then  only  under  compulsion  ;  they  will  never  attempt 
high  flights  against  the  wind.  Great  as  is  the  power 
of  their  flight,  and  strong  as  their  wings  and  tails  are  to 
steer  by,  they  have  as  great  a  horror  of  being  caught 
high  up  and  rendered  helpless  by  the  wind  as  we 
should  have  of  finding  ourselves  striking  out  in  the 
rapid  stream  of  a  big  river. 

Now  make  an  experimental  drive — and  you  must 
make  many  such  if  you  wish  for  successful  permanent 
drives  ;  place  a  trustworthy  man  or  two  far  away  down 
wind  on  the  hillside  beyond  where  they  come  so  high 
over  you,  and  you  will  probably  be  agreeably  surprised 
to  find  how  easy  is  the  solution  of  the  problem.  Your 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  129 


watchers  will  tell  you  that  every  bird  came  as  though 
out  of  the  sky  straight  for  a  particular  rock,  or  peak 
of  high  ground,  and  swinging  round  the  point  into  the 
lee,  alighted  in  the  shelter. 

There  you  have  the  spot  for  your  butts.  Neither 
grouse  nor,  so  far  as  I  have  ever  seen,  any  other  bird 
can  pause  and  alight  in  his  flight  down  wind  without 
turning  round  and  up  into  the  wind  to  do  it.  They 
will  seldom  attempt  this,  and  almost  invariably  drop 
into  a  sheltered  spot  where  they  can  settle  without 
fear  of  being  dashed  against  the  ground  by  the  force 
of  the  wind. 

So  much  for  your  down-wind  drives,  which  are,  in 
spite  of  anything  you  may  be  told  to  the  contrary, 
much  the  most  difficult  to  manage  on  steep  or  high 
and  precipitous  ground. 

You  will  find  it  easy  enough  to  push  them  back 
up  wind,  provided  you  attend  to  one  or  two  essential 
points.  The  butts  in  this  case  must,  as  I  remarked 
above,  never  be  placed  along  a  ridge  or  sky-line,  but 
just  behind  it,  so  as  to  give  the  guns  about  fifty  to 
eighty  yards  in  front  of  them  to  see  the  birds  coming. 
I  have  never  seen  a  successful  drive  where  it  was 
attempted  to  push  birds  up  wind  to  butts  on  a  ridge, 
though  it  can  be  done  with  the  wind.  Again,  though 
it  is  a  very  pretty  sight  to  observe  the  birds,  at  first 

K 


130  SHOOTING    THE   GKOUSE 

tiny  specks  afar  off,  and  as  they  grow  bigger  to  the 
eye  to  watch  every  detail  of  their  long  flight,  speculating 
as  to  whether  they  will  come  to  you  or  your  neigh- 
bour, yet  this  is  not  the  most  killing  condition.  You 
will  always  observe  that  more  birds  are  realised  when 
everyone  remarks  that  '  I  couldn't  see  them  till  they 
were  right  on  me,'  than  when  they  could  watch  them 
coming  the  whole  way.  Just  room  enough  in  front  to 
be  ready,  select  your  bird,  and  get  the  gun  up  is  all 
you  want,  and  for  this  eighty  yards  from  the  butt  to 
the  ridge  is  amply  sufficient. 

Then  each  butt  must  if  possible  be  placed,  though 
always  adhering  to  the  straight  line,  so  as  to  command 
what  I  must  describe  as  a  pass — that  is,  a  hollow  or 
comparatively  flat  space.  I  have  seen  on  a  sharply 
undulating  ridge  each  one  placed  on  the  top  of  the 
knoll,  with  the  passes  or  valleys  between.  The  result 
of  this  is  that  the  birds  swerve  a  great  deal,  and  some- 
times turn  back,  while  the  shots  at  birds  below  the 
gun  as  they  pass  through  the  hollows  are  about  the 
most  difficult  you  can  have.  When  placed  in  the 
hollows  it  will  often  be  impossible  to  see  your  next- 
door  neighbour,  but  in  this  case  you  have  only  to  be 
careful  that  when  your  line  of  butts  is  made,  a  big 
stone,  stake,  or  cairn  is  put  up  on  the  knoll  in  the 
exact  line  between  the  two  butts. 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  131 

It  is  absolutely  essential  that  the  Scotch  keeper 
to  whom  driving  is  an  unwelcome  novelty  should  be 
made  familiar  with  the  aspect  of  the  birds'  flight  from 
the  butts.  You  must  make  him  delegate  the  manage- 
ment of  the  drive  to  his  next  in  command,  and  be 
with  you  in  the  butts  at  least  once  or  twice  at  each 
particular  drive,  that  he  may  see  what  happens.  He 
will  then  be  able  to  observe  why  it  is  that  one  or  two 
butts  have  all  the  shooting,  or  why  birds  which  come 
apparently  well  to  the  guns  are  at  certain  drives 
never  properly  realised  ;  he  will  see  the  difference  in 
difficulty  between  birds  creeping  through  a  slack  or 
pass  straight  towards  you,  and  the  same  birds  when 
you  only  command  the  slack  from  above,  and  have  to 
point  down  at  them  at  a  sharp  angle  as  they  curve 
round  beneath  you.  Again,  he  will  understand  why 
you,  after  some  experience  of  this  drive,  possibly  con- 
clude that  by  shifting  the  whole  line  of  butts  only  a 
few  yards  you  may  convert  a  difficult  killing  place 
into  an  easy  one.  He  will  grasp  the  point,  and  be 
keen  enough  unless  endowed  with  too  great  a  share 
of  Gaelic  obstinacy,  to  reconstruct  the  line  and  watch 
the  successful  result.  You  must  never  be  afraid  to 
make  new  lines  of  butts  or  to  shift  old  ones,  nor 
permit  your  keeper  to  make  any  fuss  over  the  question. 
Scotch  keepers  are  sometimes  very  troublesome  on 

K  z 


132  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


this  point ;  they  will  not  make  butts  themselves,  but 
insist  upon  extra  men  being  hired  to  do  it.  This 
should  never  be  allowed.  They  have  more  than 
ample  time  during  the  months  when  there  is  no  shoot- 
ing to  do  this,  and  the  more  they  get  to  know  about 
the  construction  and  position  of  the  butts  the  better, 
while  the  work  involved  is  nothing  but  good  for 
them. 

Highlanders  are,  as  all  the  world  knows,  a  very 
fine  race  of  men,  courageous  and  loyal,  courteous  and 
amiable,  they  make  the  best  sportsmen  and  the  best 
soldiers  in  the  world  ;  but  they  are  neither  so  practi- 
cal nor  so  energetic  under  ordinary  conditions  as  the 
northern  Englishman,  and  laziness  is  their  great  fail- 
ing. There  is  a  great  deal  of  work  involved  in  erect- 
ing and  maintaining  several  lines  of  butts,  and  it  is 
necessary  that  the  keepers  should  be  kept  up  to  doing 
this  properly.  They  will  soon  learn  that  it  is  to  their 
interest  to  do  so,  and  that  the  visitor  who  is  used  to 
high-class  driving,  and  possibly  knows  a  great  deal 
more  of  the  management  of  a  moor  than  they  do,  will 
be  more  liberally  and  generously  inclined  towards 
them  if  they  thoroughly  perform  their  manifest  duty 
of  keeping  everything  connected  with  the  shooting  in 
first-rate  order. 

It  is  impossible  to  kill  grouse  well  from  a  badly 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  133 


constructed  or  ruined  butt ;  and  the  man  who  has  to 
wait  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  cold  and  windy 
weather  with  his  feet  in  three  or  four  inches  of  sodden 
mud,  peat,  or  water,  unprotected  from  the  blast  or  from 
the  keen  eyes  of  the  approaching  grouse  save  by  dilapi- 
dated walls  of  sod,  sunken  to  the  level  of  his  waist, 
trodden  down  by  sheep  or  cattle,  and  never  touched 
since  they  were  carelessly  erected  a  year  or  two  before, 
is  not  likely  to  feel  favourably  disposed  towards  the 
keeper  who  has  charge  of  these  things.  His  only 
alternative  is  to  scrape  out  the  mud  with  his  feet, 
thereby  blocking  the  entrance  to  and  the  drainage 
from  the  butt,  and  to  build  up  the  front  wall  by  taking 
sods  from  the  back  one,  the  result  being  to  make  the 
place  still  more  comfortless  and  untenantable  for  the 
next  comer  on  a  succeeding  day. 

Square  butts  are  always  to  be  recommended,  es- 
pecially on  high  ground,  and  where  sheep  or  cattle  are 
pastured  on  the  moor,  as  being  much  more  permanent, 
while  they  afford  welcome  shelter  in  bad  weather.  The 
entrance  should  be  at  the  side,  and  as  narrow  as  pos- 
sible, so  as  to  keep  out  the  aforesaid  animals.  The 
walls  should  be  built  high,  as  remarked  on  in  the  fol- 
lowing chapter,  and  the  measurements  there  given 
adhered  to. 

Old  birds  on  the  high  ground  are  very  wary,  as 


134  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

well  as  very  accomplished  in  their  flight,  and  if  they 
catch  sight  of  you  will  swing  away  and  often  turn  alto- 
gether from  the  line.  These  are  exactly  those  which 
you  should  be  most  desirous  to  kill,  and  a  well-made 
and  commodious  butt,  in  which  you  can  keep  well 
out  of  sight,  is  really  most  essential  in  the  more  remote 
drives,  where  birds  are  few  and  keen,  than  anywhere. 
Yet  you  often  see  in  Scotland  the  error  committed  of 
taking  less  trouble  over  these  than  over  the  lines  near 
the  lodge  and  on  lower  ground,  where  the  driving 
is  easier.  The  second  difficulty  I  named  above — • 
viz.  the  opposition  or  unwillingness  of  many  Scotch 
keepers — has  to  be  reckoned  with  in  this  department. 
They  must  be  taught  that  these  things  are  not  fancies, 
nor  mere  aids  to  making  the  sport  easy  or  luxurious, 
but  absolute  essentials  of  a  successful  drive,  while  the 
proper  manner  of  carrying  them  out  is  the  result  of 
the  experience  of  fifty  or  sixty  years  on  the  English 
moors. 

It  is  the  same  with  the  manner  of  conducting  the 
drive.  Many  of  my  readers  must  have  noticed  how 
impossible  it  appears  to  persuade  a  line  of  Scotch 
drivers  to  preserve  the  proper  horseshoe  or  half-moon 
shape,  or  that  their  flanks  are  really  the  most  import- 
ant parts  of  their  force.  Instead  of  getting  well  round 
the  ground,  and  no  driver  showing  himself  or  beginning 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  135 

to  move  until  it  is  practically  inclosed  in  a  great  half- 
circle,  they  drop  carelessly,  after  going  just  a  quarter 
of  a  mile  short  of  where  they  should  have  gone  to, 
into  some  sort  of  line,  and  then  all  come  straight  on, 
the  centre  often  farther  ahead  than  the  flanks  (!)  and 
the  birds,  of  course,  pouring  out  on  each  side.  It  is 
a  matter  of  luck  that  any  birds  come  to  the  guns  at 
all,  a  very  poor  bag  is  made,  and  then  it  is  voted  that 
driving  doesn't  really  answer,  and  that  you  mustn't 
expect  what  they  get  in  Yorkshire,  &c. 

This  can  only  be  remedied,  to  my  thinking,  by 
the  command  of  the  drive  being  taken  by  some  person 
who  understands  it,  whether  the  host,  or  anyone  else 
whom  he  may  import  to  instruct  the  keepers  and 
beaters.  His  authority  must  be  absolute,  and  they 
must  be  brought  to  understand  that  successful  driving 
is  entirely  a  matter  of  discipline  and  organisation. 
The  most  excellent  instruction  as  to  drivers,  forma- 
tion, flags,  &c.,  has  been  set  out  in  the  Badminton 
Library,  and  in  Payne-Gallwey's  '  Letters  to  Young 
Shooters  ; '  but  when  do  you  ever  find  it  acted  upon  ? 

On  the  best  known  Yorkshire  moors,  where  the 
system  has  been  brought  to  perfection,  all  this  instruc- 
tion is  superfluous  ;  but  why  is  it  that  in  Scotland, 
where  it  is  so  much  needed,  you  never  find  it  followed 
out  ?  The  average  owner  or  tenant  buys  these  books, 


136  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

reads  them,  discusses  and  criticises  them,  and  then 
puts  them  away  on  the  shelf  without  ever  making  the 
experiment  of  thoroughly  putting  into  practice  what 
has  been  so  carefully  thought  out  and  set  down  by 
men  of  such  experience  as  the  authors  of  those 
volumes. 

I  can  add  hardly  anything  to  what  they  have 
written,  but  I  can  at  least  point  out  that  if  they  were 
less  criticised  or  neglected,  and  more  acted  upon, 
grouse  driving  on  the  average  Scotch  moor  would  be 
far  more  profitable  to  the  owner  and  pleasanter  to 
his  friends. 

The  matter  is  new  to  the  Scotchman,  and  he  is 
inclined  for  various  reasons,  to  be  alluded  to  presently, 
to  view  it  with  little  favour.  But  if  he  has  to  do  it  at 
all,  he  may  just  as  well  learn  what  remarkable  results 
he  may  achieve  by  carrying  it  out  systematically  and 
properly.  The  new  system  must  have  a  fair  trial  to 
be  properly  adopted  or  condemned.  It  is  the  head- 
keeper  who  must  read  the  Badminton  Library  and 
master  its  details  ;  but  how  many  keepers  have  ever 
had  a  serious  book  on  shooting  given  to  them  by  their 
masters,  or  enjoyed  the  chance  of  discussing  such  a 
work  with  anyone  who  understands  it  ? 

Take  a  simple  instance  like  the  colour  of  the  flags. 
It  has  over  and  over  again  been  urged  that  the 


SCOTCH  DRIVING 


'37 


colour  of  the  flags  carried  by  the  head  man  should 
be  different  in  colour  from  those  the  drivers  carry,  the 
flank  men,  again,  having  a  distinctive  flag  of  some  kind ; 
yet  you  usually  see  flags  served  out  indiscriminately, 
and  it  is  consequently  impossible  at  a  distance  for 
either  the  shooters  or  the  drivers  to  tell  where  the 
centre  of  the  line  or  the  flanks  may  be.  This  the 
drivers,  at  least,  embracing  as  they  sometimes  do  a 


FIG.  i. 


FIG.  2. 


mile  and  a  half  of  line,  ought  to  be  able  to  do,  and 
each  one  regulate  his  own  pace  and  direction  thereby. 
I  would  recommend  white  flags  for  the  rank  and 
file,  and  a  red  one  for  the  head  man  or  centre  of  the 
line,  with  red  and  white  ones  for  the  flankers  and 
pointsmen.  The  white  is  the  most  visible  on  the 
moor,  but  the  red  and  white  ones,  especially  if  made 
as  in  fig.  2,  are  very  conspicuous,  and  therefore  good 


138  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

for  the  flank  men,  while  the  solitary  red  one  will  be 
easily  found  in  the  centre  of  the  line. 

Now,  all  these  details  are  important,  nay  essential 
to  success  in  driving.  But  if  they  are  neglected,  or 
obstinately  combated  by  persons  who  have  no  know- 
ledge or  not  sufficient  keenness  to  wish  to  realise  the 
largest  head  of  game  that  the  ground  is  able  to  produce, 
then  their  grouse  driving  will  always  remain  an  unsatis- 
factory and  haphazard  performance,  while  every  excuse 
except  the  real  one  will  be  advanced  to  account  for 
the  poor  results  achieved. 

To  drive  grouse  unless  they  are  driven  properly — 
I  may  say  scientifically  —is  a  waste  of  time,  money, 
energy,  and  temper ;  and,  as  I  have  urged  before,  the 
detailed  advice  and  instruction  of  initiated  and  expe- 
rienced authorities  is  far  more  necessary  and  useful  to 
those  who  are  taking  it  up  under  adverse  or  new  condi- 
tions than  to  those  who  have  studied  it  under  more  usual 
or  favourable  circumstances.  Your  horseshoe  forma- 
tion, your  good  flanking  and  carefully  placed  butts,  are 
far  more  necessary  on  a  wild  Scotch  beat  than  on  a  flat 
and  easily  driven  Yorkshire  moor.  Yet  it  is  frequently 
made  to  appear  as  if  all  these  things  were  considered 
immaterial  by  those  who  ought  to  study  them  most 
carefully,  and  would  profit  most  by  them. 

Now  suppose   the   wind   to   be  blowing  directly 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  139 

across  the  valley,  and — for  I  wish  to  take  the  most 
difficult  instance — rather  against  than  with  the  course 
of  the  drive.  Here  your  result  depends  entirely  upon 
the  disposal  of  the  men  and  the  conduct  of  the  drive. 
You  are  driving  along  the  face  of  a  hill,  and  the  cross- 
wind  is  blowing  fairly  strong  from  the  ridge  or  crest  of 
the  hill  downwards.  The  natural  result  of  this  will  be, 
unless  you  manage  properly,  that  birds  flushed  on  the 
higher  part  of  the  face  will  be  inclined  to  turn  round 
and  downwards,  flying  back  high  over  the  heads  of  the 
beaters.  This  is  the  danger  to  be  guarded  against. 
Once  the  birds  have  made  up  their  terrified  minds 
to  do  this  they  cannot  be  turned,  neither  could  they 
turn  themselves,  with  the  strong  breeze  behind  them, 
if  they  would. 

It  therefore  follows  that  this  instinct  of  theirs  must 
be  guarded  against  from  or  before  the  start.  The 
head  man,  with  the  red  flag,  starting  from  the  centre 
point  and  heading  straight  for  the  centre  of  the  line 
of  guns,  will,  instead  of  having  seven  men  on  each  side 
of  him  (I  am  allowing  fifteen  drivers  and  pointsmen, 
all  told),  have  five  on  the  windward  and  nine  on  the 
leeward  side. 

I  have  made  a  diagram,  which  I  hope  will  convey 
what  I  mean.  At  the  bottom  of  the  hill  is  the  burn 
running  along  a  deep  gully.  The  butts  extend  at  the 


I4o  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


point  chosen  from  the  burn  to  the  ridge,  the  highest 
No.  8,  being  just  under  or  on  the  ridge,  as  experience 
shows  to  be  best.  The  drive  widens  out  into  a  corrie 
or  flat  at  the  beginning,  in  which  lie  a  large  proportion 
of  the  birds,  taking  advantage  of  its  sheltered  posi- 
tion. In  this  drive  there  will  be  no  pointsman  or  flanker 
near  the  guns  on  the  windward  side,  while  on  the  lee- 
ward side  five  or  six  of  the  men  will  be  pushed  along 
the  burn-side  before  the  drive  begins,  the  efforts  of 
the  pointsman,  standing  on  the  highest  knoll  he  can 
find,  being  supplemented  by  the  man  with  the  ponies, 
who  can  always  be  utilised  as  a  flag  nearer  the  guns. 
It  is  of  supreme  importance  that  this  formation  should 
be  completed  before  the  driving  begins,  and  it  must 
be  borne  in  mind  that  the  upper  drivers,  on  the  wind- 
ward side,  will,  in  addition  to  the  wind,  have  the  added 
power  of  showing  against  the  sky  to  the  birds  below 
them.  Their  movements  must,  therefore,  be  cautious, 
and  they  must  not  get  too  far  ahead  or  make  them- 
selves too  conspicuous,  as  they  might  if  it  were  a  still 
day  or  they  had  the  wind  in  their  favour. 

When  the  base  or  centre,  A,  of  the  drive  begins  to 
move,  all  the  men  on  the  leeward  or  burn-side  must 
come  into  sight  at  once,  and  the  aforesaid  men  on  the 
windward  flank  must  creep  under,  not  on,  the  ridge  to 
get  round  the  sheltered  corrie  without  going  very  far 


SCOTCH  DRIVING 


141 


FIG.  3. 


142  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

ahead  of  the  centre.  All  the  birds  in  this  corrie  if 
flushed  by  men  behind  them  will  hang  right  along 
under  the  ridge  in  the  shelter,  describing  a  curve 
which  the  force  of  the  wind  will  impose  upon  them, 
and  coming  well  over  the  guns  in  order  to  reach  the 
alighting  ground  they  make  for  beyond  the  line  of 
butts. 

Now,  if  this  drive  be  mismanaged  in  the  archaic 
manner  I  alluded  to  before — that  is,  with  all  the  drivers 
in  a  straight  line— nearly  every  bird  in  it  will  be  lost, 
except  a  few  lying  at  the  bottom  of  the  corrie,  who  may, 
if  flushed  luckily,  hang  on  under  the  ridge  and  come  to 
the  upper  guns.  But  most  of  them  will  never  come 
to  the  guns  at  all ;  those  in  the  upper  part  of  the 
corrie  will,  many  of  them,  slip  out  at  the  head,  and  go 
up  wind  into  the  next  valley  or  shelter.  Those  lower 
down  will,  most  of  them,  feeling  the  force  of  the  wind 
directly  they  rise,  bear  away  over  the  burn  and  either 
remain  on  the  other  side  beyond  the  stone  wall,  or 
curve  in  again  if  this  ground  is  not  moorland  towards 
the  alighting  ground  beyond  the  line  of  guns,  without 
giving  a  shot.  Many  others,  hearing  the  guns  in 
front,  and  seeing  nothing  to  stop  them  on  the  burn- 
side,  will  rise  in  the  wind  and  go  clean  back  towards 
the  point  B.  The  drive  will  consequently  be  an  utter 
failure. 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  143 

Again,  if  driven  in  the  ordinary  horseshoe  shape, 
with  both  flanks  equally  forward,  a  lot  of  birds  will  be 
lost,  still  owing  to  the  curve  they  will  describe  be- 
cause of  the  wind,  at  and  between  the  points  D  and 
D.  Besides  this  the  flankers  on  the  ridge  side,  espe- 
cially if  showing  strong  against  the  sky,  will  turn  back 
any  birds  which  get  up  below  and  behind  them,  and 
these  will  again  make  away  over  the  drivers'  heads  to 
the  point  B.  The  only  birds  which  will  come  well  to  the 
guns  will  be  those  that  rise  in  the  middle,  having 
caught  sight  of  the  burn-side  flank  and  not  seen  the 
ridge  flank.  But  the  drive  will  not  be  a  success, 
half  the  birds  not  having  come  forward  to  the  guns, 
and  what  is  worse,  the  next  drive,  in  which  these  birds 
are  counted  on  to  make  a  still  better  one,  will  be 
spoilt  also. 

In  giving  this  illustration  I  have  endeavoured  to 
take  an  instance  of  a  typical  drive  in  a  Scotch  glen, 
and  founded  it  not  upon  any  one  place  in  particular, 
but  upon  the  common  or  usual  characteristics  of  such 
ground. 

To  drive  the  same  piece  with  a  cross-wind  from 
the  opposite  direction— that  is,  blowing  up  the  hill — is 
an  easier  matter,  and  I  do  not  think  requires  a  fresh 
diagram.  The  flankers  along  the  burn-side  need  not 
be  so  numerous  or  conspicuous,  though  this  wing 


144  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

must  still  be  pushed  on  a  little.  The  general  tendency 
of  the  birds  in  this  wind  will  be  either  to  creep  across 
the  wind  and  up  the  hill,  or  to  turn  back  as  before 
over  the  beaters,  making  their  exit  in  this  instance 
somewhere  over  the  point  A,  instead  of  towards  B. 
The  flankers  on  the  ridge  side  will  this  time  be  the 
important  people,  and  will  have  more  to  do.  They 
must  push  more  forward  than  the  other  flank,  and 
coming  along  over  or  above  the  ridge  turn  those  birds 
which  are  inclined  to  go  over  gently  on  to  the  guns. 
This  will  not  be  difficult  to  do,  provided  they  are 
stationed  there  in  time,  but  as  the  birds  are  flying  up- 
hill, and  the  wind  slightly  more  against  them  than 
with  them,  it  will  be  time  enough  to  turn  them  after 
they  have  topped  the  ridge.  This  is  the  reason 
why  they  should,  as  I  said,  be  themselves  over  or 
behind  the  ridge  ;  the  birds  will  then  swing  down 
from  them  in  a  fresh  curve  and  come  over  the  upper 
guns,  hanging  a  good  deal  in  the  breeze  and  giving 
easy  shots.  If  the  men  came  in  full  view  along  the 
ridge,  they  would  turn  a  good  many  of  these  birds 
back  over  the  centre  A. 

In  both  these  drives  the  butts  numbered  4  to 
7  will  probably  have  the  most  shooting,  though  as 
the  lay  of  the  ground  varies  in  detail,  as  well  as  the 
points  from  which  the  birds  have  been  flushed,  so  will 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  145 

the  curve  described  in  the  former  drive  vary  also,  and 
the  lower  guns  may  possibly  be  the  most  favoured. 

Now,  in  this  drive  I  have  depicted  a  sharp  ridge 
on  the  upper,  and  a  stout  wall  or  boundary  to  the 
moor  on  the  lower  side. 

But  without  supposing  any  change  in  the  shape  or 
configuration  of  the  ground,  we  may  note  a  few  altera- 
tions in  the    formation  of  the   beaters   which  would 
become  necessary  if  some  of  its  characteristics  were 
different.     For   instance,  if  instead  of  the  sharp  or 
rocky    ridge  you   have   a   rounded   shoulder,  merely 
enlarging  the  area  of  good  lying  ground  over  the  top 
and  extending  to  a  more  or  less  flat  district  with  good 
spaces    of  shelter  probably   ending   at   a   march   of 
watershed  higher  up  ;  in  this  case,  unless  too  much 
raked  by  the  wind,  a  good  many  birds  will  be  lying  on 
the  upper  flat,  and  some  more  on  being  flushed  in  ther 
corrie  will  be  inclined  to  make  up  to  it  against  the 
\vind. 

What  I  have  termed  the  ridge  flank  must  there- 
fore be  extended  before  the  drive  begins  beyond 
the  point  E,  and  may  want  an  additional  man,  who 
had  better  be  spared  from  the  other  flank  between  A 
and  B.  This  flank  must  now  take  great  care  to  get 
right  round  this  upper  ground,  especially  as  most  of 
the  birds  lying  on  it  will  probably  be  old  ones,  which 

L 


146  SHOOTING   THE   GROUSE 

it  should  be  your  invariable  object  to  kill  if  possible, 
and  instead  of  coming  along  under  the  ridge  as  in 
the  first  instance  suggested,  take  a  wide  circuit  round 
from  E  to  F  and  approach  the  guns  in  a  direction 
about  from  F  to  G.  By  this  means  the  drivers  will  rake 
in  all  the  birds  on  the  upper  ground,  and  as  they  will  be 
far  enough  over  the  shoulder  not  to  show  on  the  sky 
line,  they  will  not  turn  back  birds  flushed  below  on 
the  face.  They  must  go  warily,  and  the  burn-side 
flank  and  centre  must  go  slowly,  to  give  them  time 
to  get  cleverly  round. 

Again,  if  on  the  lower  side  there  is  no  stone  wall 
or  boundary  to  the  moorland,  but  an  expanse  of 
equally  good  ground  across  the  burn,  it  will  be  ne- 
cessary to  extend  the  lower  flank  and  sweep  some 
of  this  ground  in,  always,  however,  keeping  the  flank 
extremely  forward,  practically  joining  on  to  the 
pointsman,  on  account  of  the  wind.  In  this  case  the 
lower  butts  should  get  better  shooting,  and  it  may  be 
well  to  have  an  extra  butt  across  the  burn  in  a  line 
with  where  I  have  shown  the  ponies. 

In  this  diagram  I  have  made  curved  lines  showing 
the  probable  direction  and  curve  of  flight  birds  would 
take  from  where  they  are  flushed  to  the  alighting 
ground,  those  flushed  very  early  in  the  drive  in  some 
instances  settling  at  the  points  x.  On  rising  again 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  147 

these  birds  would  be  taken  with  the  wind  down  to 
the  lower  guns,  in  the  beginning  of  a  new  curve  of 
flight  to  fresh  alighting  ground  farther  off. 

Now,  the  higher  level  of  ground  which  I  imagined 
above,  and  which  is  the  most  frequent  accessory  con- 
dition to  a  Scotch  moor,  embracing  as  it  sometimes 
does  a  large  part  of  the  acreage  of  the  shooting,  on 
which  there  is  little  or  no  heather,  but  large  expanses 
of  grass  varied  with  deep  and  barren  peat  bogs,  and 
interspersed  with  rocks,  caves,  and  gullies,  yet  not  high 
enough  to  fairly  reach  the  haunts  of  the  ptarmigan, 
the  eagle,  and  the  fox — the  level,  in  short,  that  is 
known  as  'the  tops,'  rather  than  the  'high  tops  ' — is 
an  important  factor  in  Scotch  driving,  and  from  the 
point  of  view  of  improving  your  moor  must  be 
carefully  considered. 

On  these  heights  almost  invariably  throughout 
Scotland,  but  more  especially  where  no  driving  has 
ever  been  systematically  tried,  abides  a  race  of  old 
grouse,  of  wary  and  predatory  habits,  amatory  and 
pugnacious  dispositions,  evasive  and  exclusive  conduct. 
Now,  these  old  stagers  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance 
to  destroy  ;  but  to  do  so  is  no  easy  matter.  It  is  my 
firm  belief  that  the  presence  of  these  useless,  and  it  is 
no  exaggeration  to  say  destructive,  birds  has  a  great 
deal  to  do  with  the  scarcity  of  broods,  and  the  low 


SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


average  of  stock  to  be  found  on  elevated  Scotch 
shootings.  It  is  well  known  that  in  deer  forests, 
where  the  great  object  is  to  get  rid  of  grouse,  the  best 
means  to  arrive  at  this  end  is  to  leave  them  alone 
altogether.  The  result  is  that  in  a  great  measure  they 
die  out ;  at  any  rate,  their  numbers  dwindle  to  the 
lowest  possible  point.  There  are  two  reasons  for 
this  :  one  that  the  race  becomes  vitiated  and  reduced 
by  in-breeding,  the  other  that  the  older  birds  interfere 
with  the  matrimonial  arrangements  of  the  younger,  to 
the  prejudice  of  the  offspring. 

The  latter  evil  prevails  more  than  the  former 
among  the  birds  I  have  mentioned  as  inhabiting  the 
higher  portions  of  Scotch  shootings.  In  the  pairing 
season  the  old  warriors  come  down  from  the  heights, 
fight  with  and  vanquish  the  younger  ones,  and  absorb 
the  young  hens  ;  the  latter  lay  nests  full  of  eggs,  but 
they  are  sterile  ;  while  the  more  youthful  and  capable 
cock  bird,  who  would  become  the  parent  of  a  healthy 
brood,  is  either  driven  off  the  ground  altogether  or 
obliged  to  remain  in  a  state  of  combative  celibacy. 
The  old  hens  also,  who  are  beyond  the  age  of  laying, 
attack  any  young  hen  who  may  nest  near  them,  driving 
her  off  her  nest,  thus  causing  the  eggs  to  get  cold  and 
the  incubation  to  be  abortive. 

The  old  barren  hens  are  bad  enough,  but  the  old 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  149 


cocks  are  the  worst,  and  both  must  by  some  means 
or  other  be  destroyed.  You  would  never  dream  of 
keeping  birds  of  this  age  in  a  poultry  yard  for 
profit,  where  the  inevitable  test  of  /.  s.  d.  forces  you 
to  be  practical.  Why  should  you  allow  this  loss  of 
stock  on  your  grouse  moor?  We  must  therefore 
condemn  them  ;  but  how  is  the  sentence  of  death  to 
be  carried  out  ?  It  is  not  easy.  The  nature  of  the 
ground  they  frequent  in  the  shooting  season,  and 
their  alert  and  wily  habits,  sentinelled  as  they  are 
during  their  baskings  and  feedings,  tortuous  and  swift 
as  is  their  flight,  are  ample  protection  against  the 
ordinary  methods  of  the  average  shooter,  keeper,  and 
brace  of  dogs.  I  would  rather  poison  them  than 
have  them  on  my  own  ground,  and  on  expressing  this 
revolutionary  idea  to  a  friend  of  mine,  one  of  the  best 
known  living  authorities  on  such  subjects,  I  was 
delighted  to  hear  him  cordially  assent. 

But  as  I  have  not  studied  the  Borgian  method, 
and  am  not  therefore  in  a  position  to  actually  recom- 
mend it,  I  will  confine  myself  to  other  and  more 
practicable  means.  These  birds  could  be  immensely 
reduced  in  numbers,  if  not  decimated,  by  indefatig- 
able stalking ;  but  this  would  consume  an  immense 
amount  of  time,  involve  constant  disturbance  of  the 
other  birds  on  the  ground,  and  entirely  engross  the 


150  SffOOTSNG   THE   GROUSE 

keepers'  energies.  The  only  method  left  is,  therefore, 
to  drive  them. 

I  have  already  observed  that  the  average  shooter, 
endeavouring  to  secure  them  in  the  ordinary  way  with 
pointers,  would  find  them  more  than  his  match ; 
indeed,  he  would  kill  very  few  of  them.  I  will  go 
farther — he  would  probably  never  see  most  of  them, 
unless  he  were  a  very  first-rate,  keen-eyed,  and  active 
sportsman,  and  devoted  much  time,  instead  of  dele- 
gating this  to  his  keeper,  to  sneaking  quietly  up  the 
gullies,  and  taking  advantage  of  inequalities  in  the 
ground  to  creep  upon  them  unawares.  This  method 
is  often  practised  in  the  latter  part  of  the  season  in 
Yorkshire,  under  the  name  of  '  gruffing,'  from  the  local 
term  'gruff,'  signifying  the  little  deep  gullies  in  the 
moor  along  which  the  grouse  stalker  manoeuvres,  and 
is  very  good  fun.  But  as  I  have  remarked,  this  takes 
so  much  time  that  it  could  only  be  effectively  practised 
by  those  who  reside  all  through  the  season  close  to 
their  own  moors.  For  the  average  grouse  shooter  who 
resides  in  the  low  country,  and  only  visits  the  moor- 
land from  August  to  October,  it  is  not  practicable  to 
any  effective  extent. 

There  is  but  one  way  for  the  sportsman — to  drive 
these  birds.  The  average  Scotch  keeper  does  not 
believe  that  the  stock  of  birds  on  his  moor  in  a  good 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  151 


breeding  season  could  be  increased.  I  must  beg  to 
differ  from  him.  He  does  not,  as  a  rule,  even  know 
how  many  he  has  on  the  ground  ;  and  the  aforesaid 
packs  of  very  old  birds  on  the  higher  ground  are  to 
him  a  mysterious,  unknown,  and  inaccessible  quantity. 
He  may  walk  all  over  the  tops,  with  dogs  or  without, 
but  unless  he  creeps  and  crouches  like  a  stalker,  and 
studies  the  instinct  of  the  birds  which  causes  them 
always  to  lie  in  the  leeward  or  sheltered  sides  of  the 
hills  or  knowes,  peeping,  with  half  his  face  and  the 
whole  of  his  body  hidden,  over  the  brows,  and  ad- 
vancing with  noiseless  tread,  he  will  not  even  catch 
sight  of  these  wary  old  fowl.  Nothing  will  fairly  show 
you  what  stock  of  grouse  you  have  upon  a  moor  except 
driving  it  ;  and  unless  you  drive  the  whole  of  it, 
especially  late  in  the  season,  you  can  never  be  sure 
what  is  the  quantity  of  birds  left  behind  or  outside 
your  drives  which  you  may  not  have  seen.  If  you 
are  petermined,  whatever  your  conditions,  to  kill  the 
majority  of  your  birds  over  dogs,  you  still  ought  to 
drive  the  tops,  and  do  what  you  can  to  reduce  the 
regiments  of  antique  fowls  which  inhabit  them  You 
are  not  asked  to  eat  them  ;  they  will  do  to  send  to 
your  friends  (?),  or  to  swell  the  market  which  supplies 
the  suburban  taste  for  game  through  the  medium  of 
third-rate  restaurants  ;  but  kill  them  if  you  can. 


152  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

On  a  Yorkshire  moor  you  are  driving  on  the  tops 
all  the  time.  If  there  is  a  high  point  on  the  moor, 
rocky  and  precipitous,  it  is  in  extent  probably  a  mere 
fraction  compared  with  the  acreage  of  good  moorland 
around  it.  On  a  Scotch  moor  you  have  usually  a 
large  acreage  above  the  line  of  your  highest  driving 
ground,  but  you  rarely,  if  ever,  see  the  tops  driven. 
The  two  accompanying  sketches  may  help  to  suggest 
the  difference  of  conditions  to  the  eye.  In  fig.  4, 
'  Yorkshire,'  you  have  a  supposed  rough  outline  of 
an  extent  of  moorland,  the  horizontal  line  showing 
(in  both  drawings)  the  highest  level  reached  by  your 
drivers.  In  fig.  5,  '  Scotland,'  you  will  observe  that 
as  you  only  drive  along  the  hill-faces  where  the  heather 
is  good,  this  line  lies  below  a  large  tract  which  I  have 
marked  as  'tops,'  dominated  at  the  back  by  the 
ptarmigan  hills  or  deer  ground.  It  is  the  birds  on 
the  '  tops '  that  must  either  be  absorbed  into  your 
usual  drives  by  extended  manoeuvres,  or  made  the 
subject  of  special  drives  on  intermediate  days,  with 
extra  lines  of  butts  for  the  purpose. 

To  my  thinking,  much  more  could  be  done  than 
is  usually  attempted  by  the  former  method.  I  would 
suggest  that  the  drivers  should  be  on  the  ground  a 
long  time  before  the  guns  are  in  position,  and  should 
sweep  across  the  tops,  driving  all  upon  them  on  to  the 


SCOTCH  DRIVING 


153 


154  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

lower  ground,  before  they  form  line  for  the  individual 
drives.  Two  men  at  least — more  if  available — should 
then  be  told  off  who  would  keep  on  the  high  ground 
all  day,  always  walking  across  it,  keeping  the  birds 
from  finding  refuge  there,  and  constantly  pushing 
them  on  to  the  lower  faces.  This  would  be  a  very 
effective  method,  and  I  have  never  taken  part  in  driv- 
ing on  a  Scotch  moor,  whether  in  Aberdeenshire  in 
the  palmy  days  of  1872,  or  on  a  west-coast  shooting 
in  more  recent  and  inferior  seasons,  without  feeling 
that  the  ground,  without  some  such  manoeuvre  as  this, 
was  not  being  properly  covered,  and  that  the  birds 
had  a  shade  the  best  of  the  contest. 

Late  in  the  season  the  birds  all  over  the  ground 
will  pack,  and  unless  you  can  get  at  these  packs  and 
break  them  up  your  sport  is  poor  ;  they  will  after 
they  have  been  driven  a  few  times  betake  themselves 
bodily  to  the  tops,  leaving  you  with  nothing  but  a 
few  stragglers — all  young  birds — to  make  your  bag 
from. 

Not  having  a  moor  of  my  own,  and  feeling,  there- 
fore, that  in  spite  of  varied  experience  on  other 
people's  ground  I  am  still  liable  to  the  criticism  of  those 
who  own  moors,  and  who  might  think  that  my  remarks 
are  not  practical  or  applicable  to  their  particular  cases, 
I  have  been  at  the  pains  to  obtain  an  exhaustive 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  155 

account  of  what  has  taken  place  on  the  moor  which, 
up  to  now,  has  beaten  all  the  records  in  Scotland.  I 
allude  to  the  estate  of  the  Mackintosh  at  Moy  Hall, 
Inverness.  This  gentleman  has  been  kind  enough  to 
send  me  a  very  exact  record  of  the  progress  of  his 
moor  from  the  days  when  no  driving  was  done  until 
the  present  time,  when  he  finds  himself  able  to  rival 
the  records  of  most  of  the  English  moors  with  very  few 
exceptions.  My  readers  will,  no  doubt,  find  it  difficult 
to  believe  that  I  have  not  founded  what  I  have  written 
above  upon  the  account  which  the  Mackintosh  has 
been  good  enough  to  send  me.  I  can  only,  therefore, 
give  them  my  word  that  I  have  not  the  pleasure  of 
knowing  that  gentleman,  that  I  have  never  set  foot 
upon  the  Moy  Hall  moors,  and  that  all  the  foregoing 
pages,  in  which  I  have  endeavoured  to  show  how  the  re- 
sults of  Scotch  moorland  could  be  improved  by  driving, 
were  written  before  receiving  this  admirable  paper.  I 
may,  perhaps,  be  allowed  to  say  how  gratified  I  feel 
to  find  that  the  Mackintosh's  narrative  of  experience 
so  closely  corroborates  what  I  have  urged  myself. 
The  matter  which  he  has  sent  me,  and  for  which  I 
cannot  sufficiently  express  my  gratitude,  is  so  excellent 
and  practical  that  I  think  I  cannot  do  better  than 
print  it  in  extenso: 


156  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

Moy  Hall,  Inverness  :  November  30,  1893. 
This  moor  contains  about  n,ooo  acres,  and  lies  in 
Strathdearn,  in  the  valley  of  the  river  Findhorn,  at  an 
altitude  of  1,100  feet  above  sea-level.  It  is  nearly 
square  in  shape,  and  the  surface  is  undulating  and 
pretty  smooth.  It  is  very  well  watered  by  springs 
and  burns,  and  lies  to  the  sun.  As  it  has  been  in  the 
proprietor's  own  hands  since  1878,  the  heather  is  well 
burned  all  over  the  ground — a  matter  of  vital  import- 
ance in  keeping  up  a  large  stock  and  insuring  healthy 
birds.  Too  many  moors  are  well  burned  in  parts  only, 
generally  near  burns,  and  the  other  beats  neglected. 
Good  burning  can  only  be  done  on  the  high  ground 
in  exceptional  years,  and  only  then  for  a  very  short 
time,  so  that  it  is  all-important  to  put  on  a  large  force 
of  men  to  do  this  when  the  chance  can  be  got. 
Little  patches,  but  very  frequent,  should  be  the  rule. 
This  spreads  the  birds  more,  and  prevents  old  birds 
from  driving  the  younger  birds  off  the  strips  when 
they  are  feeding.  Then  again,  every  care  should  be 
taken  to  make  as  much  as  possible  of  the  water  on  the 
moor.  Every  trickle  of  water  should  be  puddled 
up,  and  a  succession  of  small  drinking  places  made. 
Nothing  can  be  worse  in  a  dry  rearing  season  than 
to  have  all  the  birds  crammed  together  in  one  or  two 
places.  In  fact,  as  in  modern  warfare,  the  spade  has 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  157 

as  much  to  do  with  obtaining  good  results  as  the  gun 
has.  What  with  looking  after  the  springs,  altering 
and  repairing  the  butts,  the  spade  is  not  out  of  the 
keepers'  and  watchers'  hands  from  April  till  August. 
Another  matter  of  vital  importance  is  the  killing  down 
of  old  cocks.  These  worst  of  vermin  can  always  be 
killed  in  November  in  certain  favourite  places.  Every 
old  cock  killed  then  is  worth  a  good  many  eggs  in  the 
following  spring.  The  head  keeper  alone  should  be 
entrusted  with  this  work,  however.  On  too  many 
Highland  moors  not  nearly  enough  trapping  is  done 
for  the  smaller  vermin,  such  as  stoats  and  weasels. 
The  traps  should  be  left  standing  so  long  as  they  can 
spring. 

In  the  opinion  of  the  writer  the  cause  of  there 
having  been  so  many  disappointing  seasons  on  a  great 
many  moors  of  late  years  is  because  what  should  be 
the  breeding  birds  are  killed  early  in  August,  and 
gradually  a  worse  and  worse  class  of  bird  is  left. 
Grouse  in  many  places  have  not  laid  the  large  number 
of  eggs  they  used  to  go,  even  though  the  seasons  for 
nesting  have  been  very  good.  The  large  shootings 
which  existed,  say,  in  the  Seventies  have  been  broken 
up  into  smaller  ones,  roads  and  paths  made  to  the 
distant  beats,  and  as  nowadays  everyone  shoots 
'  pretty  well,'  too  often  the  old  birds  escape  and  the 


158  SHOOTING   THE   GROUSE 

young  birds  are  bagged.  Especially  is  this  the  case 
with  moors  which  are  let  from  season  to  season,  and 
nowadays  the  new  class  of  shooting  tenant  does  not 
much  care  about  a  lease.  To  give  these  moors  a 
chance  they  should  either  be  let  on  lease  for  a  limit 
of  birds,  or  else  rested  for  a  season,  and  then  judi- 
ciously shot  over.  Where  the  moor  is  in  the  owner's 
hands  or  let  on  a  long  lease  the  case  is  different.  If 
a  man  is  very  fond  of  dogs,  pointers  and  setters,  by 
all  means  let  him  use  them;  but  if  he  wants  to  give 
the  greatest  amount  of  pleasure  to  the  largest  number 
of  his  friends,  then  let  him  harden  his  heart  and  make 
his  moor  into  a  'driving  moor,'  not  shooting  over 
dogs  at  all,  except  perhaps  in  some  odd  corner  or 
two.  He  can  really  get  far  more  pleasure,  and  profit 
as  well,  if  he  sees  his  dogs  broken  himself  before  the 
shooting  season,  and  then  sells  them  to  the  public  or 
to  such  of  his  friends  as  wish  to  shoot  over  dogs. 
There  can  be  no  manner  of  doubt  that,  once  dogs  are 
given  up  and  regular  and  systematic  driving  taken 
to,  the  stock  of  birds  is  doubled  or  trebled,  and,  better 
still,  the  average  healthiness  of  the  birds  is  raised. 
This  can  easily  be  seen  if  there  is  a  '  driving  moor ' 
next  to  a  moor  which  is  '  dogged.'  On  the  Moy  Hall 
moor  there  has  been  practically  no  disease  since 
1873- 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  159 

Driving  was  first  resorted  to  in  1869,  and  only 
then  when  the  birds  were  too  wild  to  sit  to  dogs.  On 
September  8,  1 869,  the  entry  is  '  We  drove  the  birds ; ' 
the  result  for  two  guns  was  twelve  grouse — not  much, 
but  a  beginning.  The  next  mention  is  on  August  30, 
1870,  when,  with  four  guns,  forty-two  grouse  were 
got  by  driving;  and  there  are  two  other  days  in  that 
year  when  the  same  number  of  guns  shot  twenty-seven 
and  thirty-four  birds.  No  attempt  was  then  made  to 
go  over  the  main  part  of  the  moor.  Driving  was 
only  resorted  to  on  the  flats  and  round  the  cornfields. 
Of  course  no  butts  were  at  that  time  erected.  In  1871 
four  guns  got  by  driving  60,  57,  and  121  grouse. 
On  September  1 5,  when  the  121  grouse  were  got,  the 
entry  is,  '  Everything  went  well ;  we  got  fifteen  brace 
at  one  drive,  and  eighteen  brace  at  another.' 

In  1872  there  is  the  first  entry  of  the  individual 
scores  of  the  guns.  Twenty-nine  birds  was  the  highest 
score.  In  the  years  of  1871  and  1872  the  total  num- 
ber of  grouse  killed  during  the  season  was  2,836  and 
3,002  (birds). 

From  1876  to  1879,  owing  to  the  moor  being  let, 
no  driving  was  done.  In  1879  this  form  of  sport 
was  regularly  taken  up  :  and  on  September  i,  103 
grouse  were  killed  in  six  drives.  The  highest  score 
at  one  drive  was  thirteen  birds  for  forty-three  shots. 


. 

160  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


During  this  season  there  were  fourteen  days  of 
driving ;  the  best  day  of  the  season  on  Moy  Hall 
was  162  grouse.  On  the  adjoining  moor  of  Meal- 
burne,  belonging  to  the  Mackintosh,  on  September 
10,  270  grouse  were  killed  in  one  day's  driving  by 
ten  guns.  This  moor  is  peculiarly  suited  for  this 
kind  of  sport,  and  up  to  date  of  1893  the  largest 
one-day's  bag  in  Scotland,  454  brace,  was  got  by  nine 
guns.  During  1879  the  bag  at  Moy  Hall  was  5,172 
grouse,  showing  how  much  the  driving  had  done  to 
secure  birds  which  would  otherwise  never  have  come 
to  the  gun.  On  September  13,  1883,  the  first  record 
of  over  one  hundred  brace  for  one  day  was  got,  255 
birds  being  bagged  by  eight  guns.  During  three  suc- 
cessive days  540  grouse  were  got,  or  an  average 
of  ninety  brace  per  diem.  In  1884  an  average  of 
ninety-four  brace  was  got  for  the  first  four  days' 
driving,  the  best  day  being  256  grouse,  and  thirty 
birds  being  the  highest  score  at  one  drive. 

In  1885,  in  the  first  four  days'  driving  527^  brace 
were  killed. 

In  1886  the  first  four  days'  driving  resulted  in 
580  brace. 

In  1887,  owing  to  the  death  of  the  late  Lord 
Lovat  when  actually  engaged  in  a  day's  sport,  there 
was  no  shooting  until  September  19,  when  1,608 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  161 

grouse  were  killed  in  three. days,  or  an  average  for 
three  successive  days  of  263  brace.  One  gun  killed 
no  less  than  eighty-two  birds  in  one  '  single  drive  ' 
on  September  20,  and  had  he  been  shooting  with 
three  guns  would  have  got  many  more.  His  total 
bag  for  the  same  day  was  143  grouse.  The  best 
drive  of  the  day  was  271  grouse. 

In  1888,  during  four  days'  successive  driving,  an 
average  of  323  brace  per  diem  was  killed.  During 
this  season,  which  was  a  very  good  one,  5,822  grouse 
were  killed  on  the  moor. 

In  1889,  an  indifferent  breeding  season,  four  days' 
driving  gave  777  brace.  In  this  year  grouse  were 
shot  over  dogs  for  the  last  time.  Up  till  that  time 
the  moor  had  been  regularly  shot  over  dogs  until  the 
end  of  August. 

In  1890  the  first  three  or  four  days'  driving  re- 
sulted in  744  brace. 

In  1891  864  brace  were  got  in  four  days,  but 
there  was  much  more  shooting,  as  1,806  brace  were 
got  in  the  season. 

In  1892,  on  September  i,  nine  guns  got  575 
grouse,  and  on  the  2nd  803  grouse,  the  other  two 
days  of  that  week  being  so  wild  and  stormy  that 
there  was  no  shooting. 

In  1893  2,642  grouse  were  killed  by  nine  guns  in 

M 


1 62  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


the  first  four  days'  driving,  an  average  of  330  brace 
per  diem.  The  best  individual  score  for  one  day  was 
184  grouse.  There  were  six  drives  each  day,  and 
had  the  weather  only  been  a  little  better,  the  results 
would  have  been  much  higher.  4,480  grouse  were 
secured  this  season,  all,  of  course,  by  driving. 

The  writer  considers  that  since  1888  there  has 
been  nothing  like  a  brilliant  season.  This  past  season 
the  birds  have  been  healthier  and  better  scattered 
than  they  have  ever  been. 

The  great  secret  of  success  in  driving  is  to  select 
those  places  in  the  flight  of  the  birds  where  they  can 
best  be  killed.  In  Scotland  this  is  far  more  difficult 
than  in  England,  and  no  double  drives,  to  give  good 
results,  are  possible  where  the  ground  slopes,  however 
gently.  It  is  only  on  a  dead  level  where  a  double 
drive  is  much  good.  The  writer  is  all  in  favour  of 
'  massing '  the  guns,  and  making  the  birds  fly  as  con- 
centrated as  possible  In  some  of  the  drives  the 
butts*  are  only  fifteen  yards  apart,  and  in  none  more 
than  forty-five  yards.  All  the  butts  should  be  (i)  in 
a  dead  straight  line,  (2)  should  be  close  together  and 
well  concealed,  being  invariably  placed  within  gun- 
shot of  a  ridge  in  front  when  on  a  hillside,  and,  if  on 
a  flat,  then  the  outside  turf  should  be  carefully  placed 
at  the  front  of  the  butt. 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  163 


The  writer  is  all  against  upright,  built-up  butts. 
These  must  be  dark-looking,  and  the  birds  '  shy  '  at 
them,  without  the  least  doubt. 

The  butts  should  be  half  sunk,  well  drained,  and 
perfectly  invisible  from  the  front. 

For  driving,  about  thirty  beaters  and  six  side 
boys  are  used.  Only  single  drives  are  taken,  as  the 
distances  taken  in  are  very  large — in  some  drives 
about  three  miles  round  the  arc  of  the  beaters.  Not 
a  word  is  allowed  to  be  said,  except  by  the  head 
keeper,  who  is  always  in  the  centre  of  the  beaters. 
The  six  side  boys  are  placed  in  '  pegged-out '  posi- 
tions, and  only  use  their  flags  on  the  down-wind  side. 

Some  of  the  drives  are  very  peculiar.  In  the  'Top 
of  the  Delta,'  which  is  about  the  best  on  the  moor, 
the  grouse  are  driven  to  the  end  of  a  sloping  hill,  and 
parallel,  and  not  at  right  angles  to  the  butts.  By 
this  way  as  many  birds  are  shot  coming  from  behind 
the  right  rear  of  the  butts  as  from  the  direct  front. 
The  butts  at  this  drive  are  very  close  to  each  other, 
and  the  bags  made  at  it  are  large — 350  birds,  for 
instance. 

In  another  drive,  'The  Rocks,'  the  birds  are 
driven  at  first  entirely  away  to  the  left  of  the  line  of 
butts,  and  at  least  half  a  mile  to  their  left.  When 
once  congregated  on  a  certain  flat,  they  are  then 

M  2 


1 64  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


'  dribbled '  round  a  gentle  slope  at  one  side  of  this 
flat,  the  beaters  hardly  moving,  but  every  one  or  two 
men  moving  from  time  to  time  as  the  firing  mode- 
rates. 

In  fact,  the  more  '  dodgy '  a  drive  can  be  made, 
the  more  sport  there  is  in  seeing  it  done.  Many  of 
the  writer's  friends,  who  shot  regularly  on  English 
and  Lowland  moors,  describe  the  birds  in  the  High- 
lands as  being  much  harder  to  shoot.  This,  of 
course,  is  owing  to  the  ground.  In  some  drives 
birds  come  perfectly  straight,  either  low,  highish,  or 
very  high  ;  in  others,  on  the  same  day  and  with  the 
same  wind,  they  will  fly  like  snipe,  with  a  wrench  and 
twist  which  sadly  upsets  '  averages.' 

As  regards  scoring,  the  writer  considers  that  the 
best  fairest,  and  quickest  way  is  to  draw  for  butts, 
shift  two  each  drive,  and  ask  each  gun  after  each 
drive  is  over,  '  How  many  birds  did  you  see  fall  to 
your  gun •?'  In  these  days  of  nitro  powders  everyone 
can  see  if  he  kills  or  not.  If  he  does  not  know  whether 
he  has  killed  or  not,  he  had  better  give  up  grouse 
driving.  The  total  of  that  drive  is  then  given  to 
the  gathering  keeper,  who  then  has  some  idea  of 
what  was  claimed  and  what  was  picked  up.  As  the 
drives  aie  all  single  drives,  birds  are  easily  gathered 
by  the  guns,  and  after  they  have  left  to  go  on  to  the 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  165 


next  line,  the  ground  is  well  hunted,  and  far  back,  by 
a  keeper.  Not  a  shot  is  allowed  to  be  fired  except 
during  a  drive.  Walking  in  line  and  shooting  home, 
as  is  often  done,  does  really  more  harm  in  frightening 
birds  than  any  amount  of  driving. 

The  shooting  at  Moy  Hall,  in  a  fairly  good  year, 
is  as  follows  : 

First  week,  about  third  week  in  August ;  second 
week  (after  one  week's  rest  only—  more  is  useless), 
about  first  week  of  September — these  of  four  days 
each;  another  two  days  about  September  21,  and 
another  two  days  about  last  of  October.  These  last 
are,  of  course,  '  sandwiched  in  '  with  other  kinds  of 
shooting.  The  man  who  will  kill  most  at  his  moor 
by  driving  will  be  he  who  (i)  gets  good  guns  to  shoot 
his  birds ;  (2)  who  disturbs  his  moor  least  by  small 
days  or  stray  guns  being  enlarged  upon  it ;  (3)  who  is 
constantly  on  the  look-out  for  fresh  hints— given  by  the 
birds  themselves. 

(Signed)  A.  MACKINTOSH  OF  MACKINTOSH. 

With  most  of  the  above  I  cordially  agree  ;  in  fact, 
the  experience  of  so  close  a  student  and  excellent  a 
sportsman  could  not,  for  his  particular  ground,  be 
improved  upon.  I  cannot  quite  endorse  what  he 
says  about  built-up  butts,  having  seen  them  work  so 


166  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


well  for  a  considerable  succession  of  days.  But  even 
on  this  point  one  should,  in  considering  individual 
moors,  be  open  to  conviction,  and  my  solution  of  it 
would  be  that  where  on  wild  or  rough  ground  such 
long  drives  are  taken  as  are  here  mentioned,  birds 
would  be  brought  off  their  own  ground  entirely,  and 
coming  suddenly  upon  butts  which  they  have  never 
seen,  would  be  likely  to  shy  at  them.  At  any  rate  first- 
rate  sport  has  often  been  seen  from  both  kinds,  and  so 
long  as  the  sunken  butts  can  be  well  drained  I  think 
there  is  a  good  deal  to  be  said  for  them. 

Placing  the  guns  so  close  as  is  advocated  here 
seems  to  me  to  have  disadvantages  which  on  some 
moors  would  outweigh  its  advantages.  Under  any 
circumstances  to  concentrate  the  birds  within  so  small 
a  space  is  quite  beyond  the  efforts  of  most  Scotch 
keepers  and  drivers,  although  I  admit  that  when  once 
a  perfect  system  has  been  established,  such  as  obtains 
in  Yorkshire,  it  would  in  some  places  be  of  great  use 
to  the  bag.  But  in  most  Scotch  drives  the  flight  of 
the  birds  spreads  over  a  wide  space,  requiring  six  or 
seven  guns  to  cover  it,  and  in  such  cases  the  flanks 
are  sometimes  as  good  as  the  centre.  Again,  having 
neighbours  only  fifteen  yards  off  on  each  side  of  you 
would  bother  many  people,  besides  destroying  the 
feeling  that  you  are  free  to  shoot  at  any  bird  that 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  167 


comes  within  range,  which  constitutes  one  of  the  most 
attractive  features  of  grouse  driving. 

The  opposition  of  the  keepers  is,  as  mentioned 
above,  a  serious  drawback  to  the  success  of  driving  in 
some  parts  of  Scotland.  With  regard  to  this  it  seems 
to  me  necessary,  while  making  allowance  for  the  tra- 
ditions under  which  they  have  been  brought  up, 
and  their  dislike  of  change,  not  to  lose  sight  of  cer- 
tain interested  motives  which  generally  underlie  their 
hostility  to  the  new  system.  Scotchmen,  though  as  a 
majority  they  vote  on  the  Radical  side,  are  by  instinct 
the  most  conservative  of  highly  civilised  races.  Their 
laws  and  customs,  language  and  dress,  show  the  tena- 
city with  which  they  cling  to  the  traditions  of  an 
ancestry  of  which  any  nation  might  be  proud,  and 
a  gathering  of  the  clans  would  to  this  day  evoke  a 
response  which  probably  no  cry  could  raise  in  any 
other  country. 

In  the  training  and  management  of  dogs  the 
Highlander  has  always  shown  himself  to  be  particu- 
larly apt.  He  seems  in  some  degree  to  share  the 
keen  instincts  and  finer  qualities  of  the  dog,  and  the 
devotion  of  the  animal  appears  to  bring  out  the  gentler 
and  more  sympathetic  side  of  the  nature  of  the  man. 
The  pointer  and  setter,  no  less  than  the  collie,  the 
deerhound,  or  the  '  dandy,'  respond  more  faithfully 


1 68  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


on  the  average  to  the  handling  of  a  Scotchman  than 
of  his  English  counterpart.  The  best  dog-breakers  I 
have  ever  seen  have  been  Scotchmen,  and  one  cannot 
but  admire  their  reluctance  to  abandon  an  art  in 
which  they  excel  for  what  is  to  them  a  more  irksome 
and  laborious  manner  of  providing  sport  for  their 
employers. 

But  while  we  may  and  ought  to  sympathise  with 
their  genuine  devotion  to  the  dog,  as  well  as  the 
honest  and  painstaking  assiduity  which  they  bestow 
on  the  development  of  his  qualities,  we  need  not  be 
blind  to  the  fact  that  there  is  in  the  large  majority  of 
cases  the  interested  motive  which  I  mentioned  above. 
They  many  of  them  think  more  of  the  bawbees  than 
of  sport,  and  fear  they  may  lose  under  the  new  regime 
a  source  of  profit  which  they  enjoyed  under  the  old.  It 
pays  very  well  to  breed  pointers  and  setters  at  some  one 
else's  expense  and  sell  them  for  your  own  profit.  The 
kennel  of  a  Scotch  shooting  tenant  is  usually  a  heavy 
item  of  outlay  to  him,  but  in  most  cases  a  profitable 
business  to  his  keeper.  It  is  the  fear  lest  they  should 
lose  this  which  influences  most  of  them,  and  causes 
them  to  take  refuge  in  the  unworthy  course  of  advis- 
ing their  masters  that  driving  is  impossible  on  the 
moor,  that  they  cannot  get  men,  or  that  they  will 
drive  all  the  birds  off  the  ground  or  kill  too  many 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  169 

of  them.  Now,  since  this  source  of  income  to  keepers, 
though  not  over  honest  in  its  source,  has  been,  so  to 
speak,  legalised  by  the  custom  of  two  or  three  genera- 
tions, it  seems  to  me  both  wise  and  right  to  com- 
pensate them  to  some  extent  if  for  your  own  pleasure 
or  profit  you  do  away  with  it.  The  obvious  and  best 
solution,  unless  you  are  prepared  to  raise  their  rate 
of  wages,  is  to  encourage  them  to  breed  and  train  re- 
trievers,*with  a  few  spaniels  or  setters.  Good  retrievers 
are  very  scarce  and  fetch  high  values  ;  most  grouse 
driving  is  deficient  in  interest  as  well  as  in  result,  to 
those  who  are  fond  of  hunting  dogs,  for  lack  of  them. 
The  same  keeper  who  has  for  years  maintained  a 
high-class  kennel  of  pointers  will  soon  take  an  equal 
pride  in  his  retrievers  ;  and  a  couple  or  two  of  setters 
should  still  be  kept  for  wild  days  on  outside  beats,  or 
to  assist  in  finding  birds  after  the  big  drives. 

The  dog-man,  whom  I  have  urgently  recommended 
as  a  necessary  ally  in  partridge  shooting,  is  equally  if 
not  more  necessary  to  well-conducted  grouse  driving. 
To  him  should  be  confided  the  task  of  finding  all  the 
dead  or  '  pricked '  birds  which  fall  wide  of  the  line  of 
butts  or  far  behind,  and  it  should  be  his  business  to 
remove  all  excuse  for  the  apparently  innocent,  but 
usually  crafty,  marauding  to  which  some  of  our  friends 
resort  to  supplement  their  bag. 


i;o  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

The  third  difficulty,  that  of  getting  enough  men 
to  drive,  is  in  some  places  insuperable.  But  here 
we  must  remember  that,  as  in  the  case  of  the  kennel 
question,  liberality  will  do  a  great  deal.  A  frequent 
evil  to  be  found  in  Scotland  is  that  the  shooting 
tenant,  having  given  a  rent  out  of  all  proportion  to 
the  value  of  his  moor,  becomes  stingy  in  other  matters 
to  recoup  himself  for  his  bad  bargain,  and  so  between 
the  two  conditions  he  gets  less  and  less  sport  as  time 
goes  on. 

As  I  have  urged  in  another  volume,1  liberality  to 
all  concerned  is  an  essential  condition  of  a  pursuit  of 
pleasure  such  as  shooting,  and  I  have  always  noticed 
that  those  who  exercise  this  quality  judiciously  but 
freely,  and  combine  with  it  a  firm  and  kindly  discipline, 
get  the  best  sport.  This  is  eminently  the  case  in 
Scotland,  where  the  people,  specially  responsive  in 
nature,  will  be  grateful  to  you  for  the  one  and  admire 
you  for  the  other. 

Good  wages,  a  hearty  lunch,  and  a  brake  or  other 
conveyance  for  drivers  who  have  to  come  far  from 
their  homes,  I  have  seen  work  wonders  ;  while  with 
the  contrary  conditions  I  have  witnessed  a  general 
mutiny,  and  more  often  a  sulky  recalcitrant  spirit, 
which,  carried  into  practical  effect  all  day,  has  entirely 
'  The  Partridge. 


SCOTCH  DRIVING  171 


spoilt  the  sport.  Where  labour  is  scarce  and  drivers 
difficult  to  get,  it  becomes  the  more  necessary  to  train 
the  few  you  have  to  intelligent  driving.  It  is  wonder- 
ful what  can  be  done  with  a  small  number  by  taking 
shorter  drives,  and  teaching  the  men  to  cross  about — 
that  is,  while  keeping  their  relative  positions  in  the 
line,  to  zigzag  so  as  not  to  miss  the  likely  bits  of  hold- 
ing cover. 

To  sum  up,  I  commend  the  study  of  driving  to 
those  who  rent  or  own  Scotch  shootings,  feeling  sure 
that  if  by  any  of  the  means  I  have  tried  to  indicate 
they  can  infuse  a  keenness  for  it  into  the  people  they 
have  to  deal  with,  commanded  and  directed  by  superior 
practical  knowledge,  they  will  be  much  gratified  if  not 
astonished  by  the  result. 


172  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


CHAPTER   IV 

ENGLISH     DRIVING 

SOME  twenty  years  ago  Messrs.  Blackwood  did  me 
the  honour  to  publish  in  their  well-known  magazine 
an  article  I  had  written  on  grouse  driving  ;  a  subject 
of  which  I  had  considerable  experience  during  the 
remarkable  seasons  of  1870-1871,  and  above  all 
1872. 

In  it  I  tried  to  portray  grouse  driving  as  it  was, 
and  is  still,  on  English  moors,  and  to  defend  and 
recommend  it  as  a  system  alike  the  most  attractive  to 
the  sportsman  and  profitable  to  the  stock  of  grouse. 
Many  letters  followed  my  little  effort,  and  one  gentle- 
man, who  disguised  his  identity — of  which  I  am  still 
ignorant — under  the  signature  of  '  W.  C.,'  fell  foul  of 
the  advocates  of  driving,  and  of  myself  in  particular, 
in  the  columns  of  the  '  Field,'  with  all  the  artillery  of 
envy,  malice  and  uncharitableness,  supplemented  by 
an  ignorance  of  the  subject  that  was  remarkable  even 
among  journalistic  contributions  to  sporting  literature. 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  173 


Sentiment  against  this  '  inhuman  butchery '  so 
overcame  Mr.  '  W.  C.'  that  his  feelings  found  vent  in 
poetry,  and  the  lines  in  which  he  may  be  supposed 
to  have  summed  up  his  peculiar  views  on  the  matter 
are  really  worth  reproducing,  if  only  as  evidence  of 
his  literary  power  and  sporting  instincts  : 

Let  gay  ones  and  great 
Make  the  most  of  their  fate 

As  from  mantlet  to  mantlet  they  run  ; 
I  envy  them  not — 
No,  not  a  jot, 

If  you  give  me  my  dog  and  my  gun. 

I  should  have  been  concerned  to  see,  even  at  that 
date,  anyone  who  elected  to  run  from  '  mantlet  to 
mantlet '  during  a  grouse  drive,  and  the  light  of  sub- 
sequent experience  only  tends  to  confirm  the  view 
which  I  held  then,  that  a  dog  and  a  gun  are  almost  as 
useful  to  a  sportsman  engaged  in  that  pursuit  as  in  any 
other,  and  none  the  less  if,  as  appears  to  have  happened 
to  the  fortunate  '  W.  C.,'  they  have  been  given  to  him. 
Mr.  '  W.  C.'  finally  crushed  me  with  the  remark  that 
I  was  evidently  more  familiar  with  the  pen  than  the 
gun,  a  compliment  I  enjoyed  the  more  as  I  had 
never  written  anything  for  publication  before,  and  had 
used  a  gun  ever  since  I  was  strong  enough  to  carry  it. 

It  is  no  longer  necessary  to  defend  grouse  driving 
against  this  kind  of  onslaught,  even  when  emanating 


174  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

from  so  powerful  a  source  as  '  W.  C.,'  butthis  gentleman 
was  only  one  of  many  who  always  attacked  anything 
like  well-organised  shooting  or  large  bags,  partly  be- 
cause they  had  no  knowledge  of  such  things,  and 
partly  because  at  that  time  they  furnished  almost  the 
only  '  copy '  which  editors  of  journals  could  procure 
on  shooting  matters. 

Nowadays  all  the  best  performances  and  records 
are  pretty  well  known,  most  of  them  having  been 
published  in  books  or  newspapers,  and  I  think  the 
Badminton  Library  has  finally  silenced  the  class  of 
criticism  so  ably  represented  by  my  friend  '  W.  C.' 

The  journey  to  the  English  moors,  picturesque  as 
it  is,  has  details  of  a  different  character  from  those 
described  in  a  previous  chapter  ;  and  what  is  a  very 
important  fact,  the  travellers  are  much  more  numer- 
ously recruited  from  local  sources. 

The  Manchester  man  and  the  Sheffielder,  the 
dalesman  and  the  tyke,  are  devoted  to  their  grouse 
driving,  and  as  proud  as  possible  of  the  great  bags  that 
have  made  their  moors  so  famous  ;  while  their  love 
of  the  sport  is  largely  shared  by  the  lower  classes  in 
the  North  of  England.  Herein  lies  the  great  difference 
between  English  and  Scotch  driving,  as  well  as  the 
secret  of  much  of  the  superiority  of  the  former  over 
the  latter. 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  175 

It  takes  a  great  deal  to  astonish  a  Yorkshireman  ; 
this  is  one  of  his  most  distinctive  attributes  ;  and  if 
any  competent  Yorkshire  authority  such  as  Lord 
Walsingham  or  Mr.  Rimington-Wilson  told  a  man  of 
York  that  an  effort  to  kill  2,000  brace  in  one  day  was 
contemplated,  he  would  be  delighted,  not  surprised  at 
the  idea,  and  only  ask  for  the  privilege  of  helping  to 
do  it.  There  is  therefore  no  difficulty  about  obtaining 
drivers,  and  those  of  the  most  willing  sort.  Many  of 
them  will  be  glad  to  help  without  any  payment,  and 
the  older  hands  among  them  will  have  besides  a 
complete  knowledge  of  the  mysteries  of  flanking,  wind, 
&c.,  a  shrewd  judgment  of  the  comparative  merits  of 
the  shooters  engaged,  and  often  a  wager  on  the 
probable  scores  of  their  favourite  champions.  Last 
but  not  least,  if  the  head  keeper  is  a  good  man, 
they  have  implicit  confidence  in,  and  great  respect 
for,  him  and  his  prowess ;  and  as  a  consequence 
he  can  keep  them  all  under  discipline,  and  turn 
them  all  to  account  in  the  management  of  his 
birds. 

It  will  readily  be  seen  what  an  important  factor 
this  spirit  among  the  inhabitants  becomes  towards  the 
success  of  those  great  days  on  the  more  renowned 
moors,  which  seem  to  provide  an  ever-recurring  sense 
of  wonderment  even  to  those  who  have  often  taken 


1 76  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

part  in  them,  and  to  be  absolutely  incomprehensible 
to  those  who  have  not. 

Many  a  time,  in  other  parts  of  England  or  in 
Scotland,  have  I  felt  that  it  would  be  wiser  to  be  silent 
concerning  these  phenomenal  deeds,  and  that  my 
character  for  veracity  or  honesty  would  never  survive 
the  relation  of  even  half  what  I  had  often  seen.  I 
have  never  forgotten  a  lesson  I  received  when,  as 
a  youth  at  a  private  tutor's  in  Oxfordshire,  I  used 
to  be  asked  to  take  a  laborious  part  in  the  slaying 
of  from  ten  to  twenty  brace  of  partridges  in  the  com- 
pany of  seven  or  eight  old  farmers.  I  had  returned 
to  my  tutor's  after  the  summer  holidays,  during 
which  I  had  been  fortunate  enough  to  be  allowed 
to  take  a  gun  in  a  day  or  two's  grouse  driving  on 
the  moors  of  Mr.  Walter  Stanhope  at  Dunford 
Bridge.  When  the  Oxfordshire  farmers  asked  me 
where  I  had  been,  I  said  '  grouse  driving.'  This  con- 
veyed very  little  to  them,  but  one  of  them  lazily  asked 
what  sort  of  a  bag  we  had  made.  I  naively  replied 
the  truth,  from  150  to  170  brace  each  day.  We  had 
just  finished  lunch,  and  our  morning's  bag  of  7^  brace 
of  partridges  and  a  hare  was  proudly  laid  out  near  us. 
But  this  reply  of  mine  cast  a  gloom  over  everything, 
and  one  of  these  sandy-haired,  beefy-faced  veterans 
laid  his  hand  on  my  shoulder  and  said,  '  Ah,  young 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  177 

man,  when  you  be  older,  you'll  know  better  than  to 
tell  such  tales  as  that  to  a  lot  of  men.' 

Many  years  after,  a  servant  of  mine,  a  veteran  of 
the  navy  and  the  Taku  forts,  and  afterwards  of  the 
London  Fire  Brigade,  had  to  fight  for  his  life  in  a 
Scotch  lodge  because  he  had  incautiously  related,  and 
on  this  occasion  quite  truthfully,  the  results  of  a  week 
at  High  Force,  where  he  had  just  been  with  me,  and 
where  we  had  averaged  600  brace  a  day  for  four  days. 
Previously  nettled  by  his  disparagement  of  Scotch 
moors  as  compared  with  English,  the  local  champion, 
who  happened  to  be  the  coachman,  was  fairly  roused 

by  this  astounding  record.  'Ye're  a  d d  leear,' 

he  cried,  and  fell  upon  the  Southron.  They  were 
separated,  but  not  until  Flodden  and  Bannockburn 
had  been  fought  over  again,  and  the  gun-room  floor 
was  covered  with  blood. 

These  things  are  more  widely  known  now,  but  I 
misdoubt  me  that  many  a  Scotch  keeper  who  listens 
with  open-mouthed  gravity  to  the  tales  of  Studley  and 
High  Force,  Broomhead  or  Wemmergill,  conceals 
under  the  politeness  of  the  Highlander  an  incredulity 
which  cannot  be  shaken,  and  which  deters  him  for  ever 
from  any  effort  to  emulate  such  fabulous  achievements, 
or  eclipse  the  respectable  moderation  of  the  records 
of  his  own  glen. 

N 


178  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


Although  the  opposition  to  driving  mentioned 
above  is  now  out  of  date,  there  are  still  many  people 
to  whom  the  mere  making  of  a  large  bag  appears  to 
constitute  a  source  of  irritation.  I  have  never  been 
quite  able  to  understand  this  frame  of  mind.  There 
is  nothing  to  prevent  such  a  man  from  making  a  small 
bag  if  he  wishes  it,  either  on  his  own  or  his  friend's 
ground,  and  surely  he  might  remember  that  those 
who  take  part  in  these  (to  him)  colossal  days  are,  for 
the  most  part,  just  as  keen  and  accomplished  sports- 
men as  himself.  From  the  days  of  the  great  Hawker 
until  the  present  time,  all  the  evidence  tends  to  show 
that  when  a  man  is  once  out  with  a  gun  he  will  in- 
variably kill  as  much  as  he  can.  The  man  who  will 
come  home  early  in  the  day  for  fear  that  he  should 
kill  too  much  game  is  a  person  whom,  at  any  rate, 
I  have  never  met,  and  in  whose  existence,  I  must 
confess,  I  find  it  difficult  to  believe.  But  there  is 
one  point  of  view  on  which  I  should  probably  agree 
even  with  the  unrelenting  opponents  of  large  bags. 
I  do  not  think  it  desirable  for  boys  or  youths  to  take 
part  in  them  until  they  have  been  properly  trained  to 
the  contest  between  themselves  and  the  animal  they 
are  pursuing,  which  constitutes  the  true  definition  of 
sport.  A  boy  who  is  learning  to  shoot  may  be  taken 
out  grouse  driving  once  in  a  way,  but  it  is  far  better 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  179 

that  he  should  serve  his  apprenticeship  in  the  pursuit 
of  grouse  by  walking,  stalking,  or  shooting  them  over 
dogs  in  the  usual  manner.  When  they  are  very  wild 
he  will,  no  doubt,  if  left  to  himself,  organise  little  im- 
promptu drives  with  the  few  men  who  may  be  out 
with  him,  and  in  the  course  of  a  windy  day  he  will 
get  many  shots  which  will  teach  him  something  of 
the  calculation  necessary  to  kill  a  driven  bird.  To 
partake  in  the  pleasure  of  a  well-organised  shoot  which 
produces  a  large  total  is  not  necessary  to  human  hap- 
piness, however  keen  a  shooter  a  man  may  be,  but 
it  is  one  of  the  delightfully  exciting  incidents  of  one's 
life  ;  and  if  the  moor,  manor,  or  covert  produces 
naturally  a  large  stock  of  game  without  doing  harm 
to  any  individual,  it  is  surely  better  to  realise  from  it  • 
to  the  proper  extent.  This  result  will  not  be  achieved, 
as  I  mentioned  before  in  the  first  volume  of  this  series, 
by  anyone  not  educated  to  all  kinds  of  shooting  ;  and 
the  raw  youth  who  has  never  pursued  birds  on  his 
own  account,  nor  handled  a  dog,  nor  trained  himself 
to  shoot  carefully  and  accurately,  but,  on  the  other 
hand,  has  been  allowed  by  too  indulgent  elders  to 
take  part  in  big  days  until  he  is  nearly  blase  with 
heavy  firing,  is  neither  a  desirable  object  nor  a 
pleasant  companion.  I  am  glad  to  think,  however, 
that  these  are  the  minority,  and  that  the  English  lad 

N  2 


i8o  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


is  still  keen  enough,  as  a  rule,  to  go  out  on  his  own 
account,  and  show  his  prowess  in  circumventing  and 
securing  birds  without  the  aid  of  an  array  of  beaters 
or  drivers. 

Let  me  conduct  such  a  one  with  me  on  to  the 
moor,  and,  presuming  that  he  already  knows  some- 
thing of  the  habits  of  the  grouse,  of  the  handling  of 
his  gun,  and  of  the  ways  of  his  retriever,  let  me  see, 
with  all  diffidence,  if  any  hints  that  I  can  give  will  be 
of  any  service  to  him. 

Now  mount  your  pony,  and  let  us  be  off  together. 
The  other  guns  will  follow  soon,  and  we  shall,  at  any 
rate,  be  first  on  the  ground  and  into  our  places  early. 
The  drivers  will  start  three  miles  from  the  first  line 
of  butts  by  time.  It  is,  therefore,  important  that  we 
should  be  on  the  spot  punctually,  or  the  birds  will  be 
coming  over  before  we  are  there.  Look  to  your  girths 
before  you  get  up,  or  your  saddle  may  go  round  with 
you,  and  leave  you  in  the  middle  of  the  road  as  we 
go  down  the  hill.  Through  the  little  village  we  clat- 
ter, hustling  the  ducks  and  chickens  out  of  the  road- 
way, at  that  short  and  uncomfortable  canter  which 
appears  specially  to  distinguish  the  hill  pony.  Round 
the  bend  at  the  end  of  the  street,  almost  grazing  our 
knees  against  the  stone  wall,  as  our  ponies  hustle 
round  the  sharp  turn,  over  the  grey  bridge  that  spans 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  181 

with  its  single  arch  the  narrow,  but  violent,  torrent  of 
the  beck,  brown  and  swollen  from  last  night's  rain  • 
and  once  on  the  opposite  side  the  ascent  begins,  the 
road  widening  out  here  and  there  into  a  green  lane 
or  common,  where  the  geese  hiss  and  cackle  at  us, 
barely  floundering  away  from  under  our  horses'  feet. 
We  begin  to  leave  the  region  of  the  sycamore,  the 
mountain  ash,  and  the  larch,  while  the  foxglove  and 
blackberry  grow  scarcer  by  the  roadside.  Now  we 
emerge  into  a  great  inclosure  of,  say,  a  hundred  acres, 
in  which,  though  there  are  still  patches  of  succulent 
green  pasture,  dotted  with  mushrooms  or  here  and 
there  spots  of  grey  stone  peeping  through  the  sward, 
the  coarser  grasses  and  rushy  tussocks  of  the  moor 
begin  to  predominate.  A  whole  herd  of  young  cattle 
come  dancing  round  us,  and  the  temper  of  the  old 
bull  who  watches  us,  sulky  and  motionless,  as  we 
ride  by,  is  a  source  of  inward  anxiety,  until  we  reach 
the  gate  in  the  high  wall  which  is  the  boundary  of  the 
real  moor.  Now  we  are  fairly  in  the  open  and  on 
the  heather,  a  flock  of  anxious  peewits  hovers  close 
round  our  heads,  screaming  and  turning  over  in  the 
air  ;  the  wheatear  evades  us  in  a  succession  of  short, 
jerky  flights,  curtseying  at  us  in  derision  at  each  pause 
upon  a  stone,  and  so,  making  our  way  through  moss 
hags,  over  stones,  and  carefully  round  boggy  places, 


i82  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

but  still  always  ascending,  we  reach  the  first  of  the 
line  of  butts.  Now  dismount  and  take  your  gun. 
You  have  drawn  No.  4  butt,  which  is  sure  to  be  a 
good  one  ;  and  as  we  walk  up  to  it  from  here,  you 
may  kill  a  grouse,  which,  as  the  drivers  are  still  miles 
away,  can  do  no  harm. 

'  Yak  !  kak  !  kak  ! '  from  close  underneath  No.  2 
butt.  Well  done,  very  good  shot  !  but  look  beyond 
there  up  the  face  at  all  those  birds  rising  and  going 
back  into  the  drive.  No  matter,  they  will  come  on 
again.  There  is  plenty  of  time,  and  you  may  gather 
from  where  those  birds  rose,  about  three  hundred 
yards  away,  how  difficult  of  approach  the  Yorkshire 
grouse  is  even  in  the  early  days  of  August.  But  here 
we  are  at  our  place,  so  let  us  get  in  and  be  ready  for 
action.  Now  take  the  centre  of  the  butt  yourself,  put 
half  a  dozen  cartridges  in  your  right-hand  coat- pocket, 
that  you  may  be  able  to  put  one  quickly  into  the  gun 
in  case  your  loader  should  not  be  ready  with  your 
second  when  birds  are  coming  thick.  Let  him  place 
his  bag  of  cartridges,  well  open,  on  the  seat  in  the 
left-hand  corner  of  the  butt  close  to  his  hand,  and  I 
will  crouch  behind  him  rather  to  your  right.  Neither 
of  us  is  likely  to  jump  up,  so  that  you  can  swing 
the  gun  round  with  freedom  on  both  sides  to  shoot 
behind.  Look  with  care  to  the  height  of  the  front  of 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  183 


the  butt — it  should  be  just  high  enough  to  shoot  over 
in  comfort  when  you  are  standing  upright — make  it 
up  with  the  spare  sods  lying  about,  and  especially  on 
the  left-hand  side,  as  from  that  side  you  will  show  to 
the  birds  against  the  sky,  and  you  must  keep  low  as 
they  come  up  hill.  Now  lean  both  of  your  guns 
against  the  front  of  the  butt,  being  careful  in  so  doing 
that  no  little  pieces  of  peat  fall  down  the  muzzle. 
Sec  that  the  barrels  of  both  are  clear,  and  that  both 
are  loaded,  and  now  let  us  take  a  good  survey  of  the 
exact  position  of  our  next-door  neighbours,  and  of  the 
ground  in  front  of  us.  Ours  is  the  first  butt  under 
the  ridge  to  our  right,  No.  5  being  on  the  point  of 
the  ridge,  and  No.  6  beyond  it  out  of  sight.  The 
three  butts  on  our  left  stretching  down  the  hill,  No.  i 
being  the  bottom  one,  all  look  at  first  sight  to  be 
better  places  than  ours,  but  I  think  we  shall  find  on 
examination  of  the  favourable  slack  in  front  of  us 
under  the  ridge  that  we  shall  get  as  much  shooting 
as  anybody.  The  sun  is  now  quite  hot.  The  grasses 
and  heather  buds  on  the  ridge  are  waving  and  shiver- 
ing gently  in  the  breeze  against  the  bright  sky.  In 
the  valley  I  can  just  hear  the  splash  of  the  beck  over 
the  stones,  and  clearly  as  we  can  see  every  detail  on 
the  opposite  slope,  and  the  flat  above  it,  and  even  that 
rocky  ridge,  crowned  by  the  delicate  blue  of  a  far-off 


1 84  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


range,  no  sign  of  a  driver's  flag,  with  the  exception  of 
the  two  pointsmen  not  far  off  on  our  left,  is  visible. 

A  hoarse  exclamation,  '  Lie  down,  will  you  ?  '  from 
a  loader  to  his  dog,  comes  to  us  faintly  on  the  breeze 
from  the  top  butt  ;  a  snatch  of  a  skylark's  song  from 
the  pastures,  an  occasional  bark  from  a  sheep  dog  in 
the  valley,  the  single  plaintive  pipe  of  a  young  golden 
plover,  seeming  to  come  now  from  the  flat  in  front,  now 
from  behind,  and  now  from  somewhere  in  the  sky,  are 
all  the  sounds  that  reach  our  ears.  All  is  deliciously 
still,  and  the  atmosphere,  fragrant  with  heather  buds 
and  stimulating  to  the  nerves,  the  brightness  and 
purity  of  the  light,  with  the  enchanting  prospect  of 
heath  and  fell,  of  mountain  and  cloud,  of  the  peaceful 
valley  watered  by  a  shining  river,  its  humble  interests 
all  clustered  round  the  grey  church  tower,  and  bridge 
of  the  little  market  town  two  miles  away  and  five 
hundred  feet  below  you,  would  be  worth  the  journey 
up  here,  even  if  grouse  and  shooting  did  not  exist  to 
make  it,  to  your  eyes,  complete.  Faintly  a  very  distant 
rattle,  the  well-known  music  of  the  railway,  catches 
your  ear,  and  there,  creeping  gently  down  towards 
the  town,  is  the  little  toy  train,  tracing  its  accurate 
line  in  picturesque  contrast  to  the  windings  of  the 
river,  and  giving  with  its  long  soft  trail  of  snow-white 
steam  a  new  note  of  interest  to  the  slumbering  land- 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  185 


scape.  Toy-like  as  it  appears  from  here,  that  is  a 
northern  express  going  at  fifty  miles  an  hour,  and  it 
has  even  now  passed  out  of  sight. 

There  !  On  the  rocky  ridge  afar  off  is  a  flash  of 
something  white  ;  it  is— no,  yes— a  driver's  flag;  there 
is  another,  showing  black  against  the  sunlit  moor  to  the 
right — yes,  there  they  are,  all  or  nearly  all  in  sight, 
and  in  the  shape  of  a  perfect  horseshoe.  '  The  birds 
will  not  be  here  for  some  time  yet,'  you  say.  No, 
but  I  should  take  my  gun  and  be  on  the  watch  for  an 
odd  lot  often  comes  over  very  early  off  the  flank  of 
the  drive. — Look  out,  here  are  birds  ! '  Black  and 
mysterious  looking,  a  little  pack  of  some  five-and- 
twenty  suddenly  show  on  the  ridge  about  a  hundred 
yards  in  front.  Rapidly  and  silently  they  come  along 
the  ridge  straight  for  your  neighbour,  No.  5.  Whistle 
to  him,  it  is  only  fair  play— but  it  is  too  late,  for  him. 
Some  hasty  movement  of  his  or  his  neighbour's 
beyond,  and  in  an  instant  they  have  swerved  and  are 
coming  right  down  on  us.  '  Take  the  first  one.'  One 
— two — well  done  ;  that  second  one  isn't  down  yet, 
but  badly  hit ;  ah  !  there  he  comes,  stone  dead  I 
should  say,  just  this  side  of  that  little  knoll  with  the 
shining  bit  of  white  grass  below  it.  I  shall  get  him 
for  you  all  right  after  the  drive,  when  we  hunt  the 
ground  behind.  By  this  time  you  are  very  much  on 


186  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

the  look-out,  and  so  I  now  see  are  our  neighbours, 
but  there  probably  won't  be  any  more  for  some  little 
time.  That  little  pack  were  all  old  birds,  sitting  on 
some  bare  place  upon  the  ridge,  and  had  got  up 
thinking  to  sneak  away  long  before  the  drivers  came 
really  near.  And  let  me  point  out  to  you  that,  had 
your  neighbour  been  '  watching  out '  as  we  were,  the 
lot  would  never  have  swerved,  but  would  have  gone 
straight  by  him,  an  easy  chance  ;  whereas  as  things 
are,  he  is  either  unconscious  or  furious,  no  matter 
which,  and  you  are  a  brace  of  birds  to  the  good, 
which  he  will  only  put  down  as  an  item  of  your  extra- 
ordinary good  luck. 

Now  keep  a  sharp  watch,  and  especially  to  your 
left.  The  birds  that  come  over  the  ridge  on  the  right 
must  show  well  against  the  sky,  and  those  in  front 
will  tell  black  against  the  sunlight  of  the  opposite  face; 
but  those  that  come  up  the  hill  from  the  left,  having 
crossed  the  gully  without  our  seeing  them,  will  be 
creeping  very  low  over  the  heather,  so  that  with  the 
sun  shining  on  their  bodies  they  will  be  very  difficult 
to  see  against  the  ground,  and  get  right  up  to  us  un- 
awares, unless  we  are  careful.  Here  they  come,  just 
from  the  point  I  warned  you  of,  seven  or  eight  of 
them,  close  to  the  top  of  the  heather  and  very  slow, 
for  they  have  a  little  wind  against  them,  have  come  a 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  187 


long  way,  and  are  flying  up  hill.  The  slant  of  their 
course  will  bring  them  obliquely  across  you,  heading 
straight  for  No.  5 — and  here  is  a  good  chance  to  get 
four  with  your  two  guns.  Take  the  outside  one  on 
your  right,  they  are  sure  to  swing  away  a  little  when 
you  fire,  but  those  on  your  left  will  still  cross  near 
enough  to  deal  with  easily.  Good  !  he  is  stone  dead, 
the  second  also,  an  easy  cross  shot  straight  in  front, 
the  third  a  miss,  though  an  easy  chance,  and  the 
fourth  cleverly  dropped  by  a  longish  shot  just  as  they 
were  swinging  back  all  together.  No.  5  kills  one,  close 
to  your  last,  for  they  are  now  almost  in  front  of  him, 
and  they  are  gone  ;  back  over  the  ridge. 

That  third  shot  was  a  pity,  and  arose  from  too 
much  haste  and  flurry  in  changing  your  gun ;  quite 
unnecessary,  for  there  was  really  plenty  of  time,  as 
there  was  another  bird  much  nearer  to  you  than  the 
one  you  fired  at  with  your  fourth  barrel.  Bear  this 
in  mind  another  time.  Here  come  two  straight  to 
you  from  under  the  ridge  ;  take  care,  for  these  are 
coming  thrice  as  fast  as  the  last,  the  side  wind  helping 
them  a  little,  and  rather  higher.  Slightly  to  your  right 
they  come  over  at  express  pace  ;  ah  !  your  first  barrel 
was  neither  high  enough  nor  forward  enough,  as  you 
see  by  those  little  floating  white  feathers  from  under 
his  tail,  but  swinging  quickly  you  killed  him  well 


1 88  SHOOTING    THE^  GROUSE 

with  your  second  behind  the  line,  and  he  has  fallen 
stone  dead  in  that  patch  of  rushes  by  the  little 
trickle  of  water.  '  You  ought  to  have  had  them 
both.'  Yes,  you  ought,  but  the  first  barrel  at  a  fast 
grouse  at  about  twenty  feet  from  the  ground  always 
demands  just  sufficient  forethought  to  remember  to 
lift  the  left  arm  well  up  and  to  shoot  well  over  him. 

Now  they  are  coming  more  frequently,  and  mostly 
very  straight  to  us  from  the  ridge  to  our  right,  and 
from  the  front.  Look  out  again  from  the  left — you 
see  those  had  got  to  within  ten  yards  of  you,  coming 
from  below  before  you  saw  them,  and  that  is  why, 
instead  of  getting  at  least  three,  if  not  four  of  them, 
all  easy  shots,  you  in  your  hurry  missed  your  first, 
killed  your  second  behind,  and  fired  two  most  ridiculous 
shots  at  him  with  your  second  gun  after  they  were  too 
far  off.  Your  eyes  should  run  over  all  the  ground  in 
front  of  you,  from  the  extreme  right  to  left  and  back 
again,  incessantly.  Especially  you  should  watch  two 
points — that  where  the  ridge  sinks  into  the  skyline 
eighty  yards  ahead,  and  that  on  the  left  where  they 
come  creeping  to  you  from  below.  You  ought  by 
now  to  be  getting  to  know  the  instant  a  bird  is 
in  sight  whether  he  is  really  coming  to  you  or  not. 
Observe  how  those  that  you  first  see  in  front  of 
you  nearly  all  swing  with  the  wind  down  to  No.  3  on 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  189 


your  left ;  and  on  the  other  hand  how  the  same  curve 
in  their  flight  causes  all  those  which  first  show  at  the 
point  of  the  ridge  I  just  mentioned  to  come  right 
on  to  you,  though  first  seen  straight  in  front  of  No.  5. 

Look  out  for  those  two  in  front,  they  are  going  to 
settle,  and  you  should  always  shoot  at  a  settling  bird, 
even  up  to  a  longish  range.  You  missed  the  moment, 
and  probably  the  bird  also.  Just  when  he  tucks  his 
tail  in,  and  is  sinking  down  into  the  heather,  with  his 
wings  open  and  neck  and  breast  exposed,  he  is  very 
vulnerable,  and  may  be  killed  at  a  long  way  off. 
There,  he  has  run  on  to  that  stone—  now  take  him 
sitting,  it  is  better  to  put  him  up  in  any  case,  for  he 
will  only  attract  others  to  settle  near  him.  Ah,  you 
shot  over  him,  and  he  is  off.  There  is  only  one  way 
to  make  sure  of  a  sitting  bird,  a  trick  I  found  out  for 
myself  at  pigeon  shooting  :  aim  carefully  three  or  four 
feet  under  him,  raise  the  muzzle  gently  till  it  just 
covers  his  toes,  at  that  moment  pull,  and  you  will 
never  miss  another  sitter. 

Now  there  is  a  fine  lot — they  seem  to  be  streaming 
at  you  from  all  points  in  front,  there  must  be  two  or 
three  hundred  of  them.  Keep  cool,  take  the  one 
coming  straight  for  the  right-hand  corner  of  our  butt 
and  who  leads  the  pack,  first.  Well  killed  !  the  second 
snapped  rather  too  hastily  in  front,  the  third  well 


1 90  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


killed  ;  but  why,  oh  !  why  did  you  turn  round  ?  the 
fourth  one  you  shot  at  and  missed  was  ridiculously 
far,  and  then  one  nearly  knocked  your  cap  off  mean- 
while. Again  you  change  guns,  and  kill  one  out  of 
two  hastily  shot  at  behind  the  butts,  and  as  you  again 
get  your  seventh  and  eighth  barrels  to  work  you  find 
that  birds  have  been  streaming  straight  to  you  all  the 
while,  tailing  off  after  the  main  body  of  the  pack. 
Result — five  birds  with  your  eight  barrels,  while,  shoot- 
ing as  well  as  you  do,  you  ought  to  have  very  easily 
killed  with  all  the  shots  and  secured  eight  birds.  As 
long  as  there  are  birds  still  coming  on  you  should  never 
turn  round  at  all,  but  keep  on  plugging  away  always 
at  those  which  catch  your  eye  as  coming  easiest,  and 
letting  them  get  tolerably  near  you  before  firing.  As 
in  watching  a  first-rate  professional  at  billiards  you 
will  be  astonished  at  the  number  of  easy  strokes  he 
gets,  and  notice  how  seldom  he  takes  a  difficult  one, 
so  a  high-class  performer  with  the  gun  will  achieve  as 
much  by  his  rapid  selection  of  easy  chances  as  by 
accuracy  of  shooting.  There  will  always  be  plenty  of 
difficult  shots  during  a  drive  on  which  to  employ  his 
more  brilliant  efforts,  and  which  he  will  kill  with  all 
the  more  certainty  from  '  getting  his  eye  in  '  at  the 
easy  ones.  But  this  is  a  part  of  the  art  that  is  hot 
learned  in  a  day,  even  by  the  most  brilliant  natural  shot. 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  191 

Now  here  come  three,  one  a  little  ahead  of  the 
other  two  and  straight  to  you,  the  others  abreast  and 
a  trifle  to  your  left.  Take  the  leader  first,  shooting 
rather  soon,  at  what  looks  like  forty  yards,  and  with 
particular  accuracy ;  change  guns  quickly  without 
firing  the  second  barrel,  and  kill  the  other  two  with 
your  second  gun,  one  by  sharp  work  just  in  front  and 
the  other  an  easy  one  behind.  Good,  you  have  got 
all  three  ;  and  no  doubt  you  see  the  advantage  of 
this  manoeuvre.  Had  you  stuck  to  your  first  gun 
after  killing  the  first,  you  would  have  had  to  pause  a 
little  to  get  the  next  with  your  second  barrel,  and  while 
you  were  changing  guns  the  third  bird  would  have  got 
so  far  that  you  would  almost  certainly  have  lost  him. 

Now  the  holloaing  of  the  drivers  sounds  quite  near, 
and  in  fact,  though  you  cannot  yet  see  them,  for  they 
are  still  climbing  out  of  the  gully  and  under  the  fall 
of  the  ground  in  front  of  you,  they  are  probably 
not  more  than  150  yards  off,  a  distance  at  which  you 
may  easily  blind  a  man.  You  must  now  only  shoot  at 
birds  a  moderate  height  up  in  the  air,  or  low  to  your 
right  against  the  ridge,  or  behind.  What  remain  are 
coming  singly  and  easier,  but  look  out  for  a  small 
burst  off  the  ridge,  for  remember  we  saw  a  good  many 
settle  there  from  time  to  time.  There  they  come, 
but  they  won't  quite  face  it,  and  hang  back,  giving 


192  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


long,  high,  crossing  shots,  and  going  clean  back 
over  the  drivers.  High,  and  well  forward,  and  you 
have  killed  a  beautiful  double  shot ;  don't  forget  to 
pick  these  up  afterwards,  for  they  have  fallen  a  long 
way  from  any  of  your  other  birds. 

The  drivers  are  showing  all  along  the  line,  their 
flags  are  rattling  in  the  wind,  and  it  is  nearly  over. 
Do  you  remember  where  that  bird  settled  about  sixty 
yards  in  front,  just  in  that  deep  bit  of  heather  ?  They 
will  go  past  him,  for  I  don't  think  he  has  ever  risen  ; 
call  to  them,  waving  them  to  where  he  was.  Yak-kak  ! 
there  he  is,  and  as  he  comes  straight  on  and  rather 
high  you  have  killed  him  easily  and  safely  over  their 
heads.  He  is  about  the  last,  and  I  think  as  the 
drivers  are  now  only  forty  yards  off,  we  may  go  out 
and  pick  up. 

It  is  better  now  to  make  the  loader  hold  your  dog 
until  we  have  picked  up  all  the  dead  ones  near  the  butt 
on  the  burnt  ground.  It  is  bad  for  him  to  see  so  many 
dead  on  the  ground  and  he  will  have  had  enough  work 
by  the  end  of  the  day.  Having  done  this  the  man  can 
go  off  after  the  bird  we  marked  at  the  very  beginning 
of  the  drive,  which  is  quite  dead,  and  you  and  I  will 
look  after  the  otheis  with  the  dog,  particularly  those 
two  or  three  which  fell,  not  killed  dead,  near  the  little 
burnside.  Twenty- seven  you  had  down,  besides  one 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  193 

of  these  not  counted,  which  will  probably  rise  again. 
Well,  we  must  pick  them  all  up.  Now  we  have 
gathered  twenty-one,  and  your  loader  has  the  far-off  bird 
which  makes  twenty-two.  Wait  a  moment  till  he  re- 
joins us  and  is  out  of  the  way,  and  we  will  try  for  the 
three  in  the  burn.  Now  be  ready  with  your  gun,  and 
mind  to  work  your  dog  up  to  them  from  this  side,  for 
right  and  left  and  behind  us  are  men  all  over  the 
place  picking  up,  and  unless  we  drive  him  away  in  the 
forward  direction  you  will  not  be  able  to  shoot  safely. 
Ah,  I  see  the  dog  winds  him  ;  look  out,  there  he  is, 
and  safely  killed  without  trouble.  One  of  the  others 
proves  to  be  winged,  and  to  have  run  a  long  way  down 
the  burn  till  he  is  gathered  right  behind  No.  3,  but 
though  the  latter  looks  rather  askance  at  us  for  being 
off  our  own  ground,  the  bird  was  fairly  footed  by  the 
dog  all  the  way  from  where  he  fell.  The  third  is 
lying  stone  dead  in  a  little  pool,  so  now  we  have 
twenty-five  ;  but  stay,  we  had  almost  forgotten  the 
two  you  killed  right  away  in  front,  as  they  were  turn- 
ing back.  Now  we  have  got  both  of  them,  though 
the  second  took  the  dog  a  hundred  yards  down  the 
gully,  leaving  a  long  track  of  feathers  like  the  '  scent ' 
of  a  paper  chase  on  the  tops  of  the  heather.  But 
where  have  we  left  the  twenty-eighth  ?  '  We  must 
have  been  mistaken,'  you  say, '  for  we  have  hunted  the 

o 


194  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

ground  all  over.'  '  I  beg  your  pardon,  I  am  quite 
sure  of  my  count ;  so  just  look  with  me  carefully  close 
round  the  butt,  where  a  bird  often  gets  left.  Here  he 
)ies,  down  a  deep  rift  in  the  peat,  in  a  little  stagnant 
pool  of  brown  water,  which  is  why  he  had  no  scent, 
almost  hidden  by  overhanging  heather,  not  five  yards 
from  the  butt ;  so  there  is  our  correct  number.  You 
can  see  from  this  the  value  of  accurate  counting,  for 
without  me  you  would  certainly  have  gone  away 
satisfied  you  had  picked  all  up,  and  left  that  last 
bird  to  rot.' 

As  we  have  not  been  called  on  yet  by  our  host,  we 
might  just  look  at  where  the  second  of  those  two 
settled  in  front,  for  the  one  which  ran  on  to  the  stone 
and  got  away  was  not  the  bird  you  fired  at  settling. 
I  thought  not,  and  there  to  our  joy  is  the  other  one, 
not  quite  dead,  crouching  deep  under  the  thick 
heather,  and  found  very  prettily  by  the  dog.  That 
was  lucky,  I  thought  you  had  missed  him,  for  he 
seemed  to  drop  all  right  into  the  heather. 

So  we  have  made  it  up  to  twenty-nine,  a  fair  good 
drive,  and  though  your  shooting  was  really  very  good, 
you  must  remember  that  on  several  occasions  you 
missed  the  chance  of  easily  getting  more,  merely  by 
undue  hurry,  or  not  making  the  most  of  the  position. 

Now  we  shift  across,  and  rather  uphill,  about  two 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  195 


hundred  yards  only  for  the  return  drive.  For  some 
years  we  used  to  drive  back  over  the  same  butts  ;  but 
grouse  hardly  ever  return  to  any  ground  by  the  same 
line  as  they  took  to  leave  it,  and  here  they  always 
come  back  higher  up,  with  the  exception  of  a  few 
lots  which  will  return  much  lower  down,  and  which 
it  cannot  be  hoped  to  include  in  the  drive. 

The  reason  of  this  is  the  wind — the  invariable 
factor  in  determining  the  line  of  the  flight  of  grouse. 
This  time  they  will  be  coming  back  off  higher  ground, 
the  wind,  though  still  across,  being  rather  more  behind 
them,  an  important  fact  to  them,  and  with  the  sun 
also  more  behind  them,  an  equally  important  one  to 
you.  You  have  now  to  keep,  if  possible,  more  care- 
fully on  the  watch  than  before,  and  from  the  first 
moment  after  getting  to  your  place,  for  some  will 
return  to  their  own  ground  almost  immediately.  Here 
you  must  carefully  scan  the  face  of  the  hill  opposite 
you,  bothered  as  you  are  by  the  sun,  now  on  your 
left ;  for  they  will  be  very  difficult  to  see  against  the 
dark  rising  ground,  and  come  very  fast.  You  will 
get  no  shots  against  the  sky  except  at  such  as  come 
high. 

They  return  on  higher  ground  here  for  two  reasons, 
one  being  that  the  majority  of  those  in  the  last  drive 
actually  came  off  higher  ground  over  the  ridge  to 

o  2 


196  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

your  right  than  you  supposed,  which  was  swept  in 
sideways  by  the  flank,  and  to  which  they  wish  to  re- 
turn ;  and  the  other  that  the  wind,  the  more  imme- 
diate reason,  being  here  on  their  quarter,  they  can  the 
more  easily  slant  across  it,  and  are  not  obliged  to 
curve  round  under  the  ridge,  as  they  would  do  if  it 
were  at  all  against  them.  Remember  that  here  they 
will  all  come  very  fast,  and  though  nothing  would 
really  turn  them,  they  will  swerve  and  twist  a  good 
deal  if  you  make  hasty  or  jerky  movements  just  as 
they  approach  you.  This  is  another  fruitful  reason 
of  the  wonderful  '  luck '  usually  ascribed  to  a  first- 
rate  man.  The  duffer  next  to  him  exposes  himself, 
bobs  or  shifts  about,  and  turns  many  a  bird  from 
himself  right  towards  the  motionless  form  of  his  more 
accomplished  neighbour,  such  birds  'counting  two 
on  a  division '  as  politicians  would  say.  Here  again, 
if  they  are  coming  straight,  as  most  of  them  will, 
there  can  be  no  question  of  killing  three  or  four, 
except  out  of  a  big  or  streaming  lot.  Make  sure  of 
your  double  shot,  one  in  front  and  one  behind,  letting 
the  first  one  come  pretty  close  to  you  before  firing, 
and  swinging  round  like  lightning  for  the  second.  To 
this  end  make  sure  that  your  footing  is  secure,  and 
your  loader  so  placed  as  not  to  interfere  with  your 
movements,  for  when  birds  are  coming  very  fast  down 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  197 


wind  you  have  to  turn  round  with  extreme  quickness, 
and  must  be  free  in  your  movements,  with  your  feet  on 
level  ground.  When  you  come  to  the  pick-up,  bear 
in  mind  that  your  dead  birds  will  all  be  much  farther 
back  than  you  would  suppose,  and  that  you  will  have 
none,  except  cross  shots,  in  front  of  your  butt.  Take 
your  dog  right  away  back  at  once  to  a  point  a  little 
farther  off  than  your  farthest  bird,  and  then  hunt  him 
up  carefully  towards  the  butt,  so  as  to  give  him  the 
full  benefit  of  the  wind. 

In  conclusion,  never  wait  to  kill  a  bird  behind  the 
line  while  it  is  possible  to  kill  him  in  front ;  but  be 
careful  not  to  dwell  upon  or  follow  birds  coming  into 
the  line,  this  being  the  most  fruitful  cause  of  accident. 

Thus  may  one  endeavour  to  instruct  those  who 
are  beginning  to  practise  this  most  engaging  of  all 
forms  of  shooting.  There  are  a  few  further  points 
I  would  urge,  on  some  of  which  I  must  disagree  with 
what  has  been  written  elsewhere,  though  I  am  against 
splitting  straws  with  persons  who  have  undoubtedly 
brought  much  study  to  bear  upon  the  subject.  I  can- 
not agree  with  one  well-known  authority,  who  advises 
men  never  to  shoot  at  birds  which  settle  in  front.  I 
would  always  recommend  shooting  at  them  even  up 
to  seventy  or  eighty  yards  off.  First,  as  remarked 
above,  they  can  be  killed  up  to  a  good  distance ; 


198  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

secondly,  because  they  will  always  attract  others  to 
settle  near  them.  Whether  the  fresh  arrivals  detect 
the  presence  of  those  already  there  by  sight  or  smell 
I  cannot  say,  but  it  is  certain  that  if  birds  have  settled 
in  front  of  you,  and  you  do  not  disturb  them,  a  great 
proportion  of  those  following  on  after  them  will  drop 
down  to  them.  I  have  often  seen  them  rise  and 
come  straight  on  over  the  guns  after  being  shot  at 
when  in  the  act  of  alighting  or  sitting,  showing  that 
they  did  not  detect  where  the  sound  proceeded  from. 
Late  in  the  drive,  when  the  men  are  getting  com- 
paratively close,  it  is  better  to  leave  them  alone,  on 
the  chance  of  their  coming  forward  :  early  in  the  drive 
always  shoot;  if  they  go  back,  they  will  probably 
alight  again  before  reaching  the  drivers,  and  be  forced 
forward  a  second  time. 

When  you  are  shooting  grouse  with  one  gun  only, 
and  a  big  lot  of  birds  are  coming  to  you,  fire  your  two 
barrels  early,  duck  down  below  the  butt,  and  as  long 
as  there  are  still  grouse  within  shot,  put  in  one  cart- 
ridge only.  You  will  do  more  execution  this  way 
than  by  waiting  to  load  both  barrels.  I  once  killed 
five  birds  out  of  one  lot  of  about  fifty  in  this  manner, 
and  I  ought  to  have  killed  six,  for  I  missed  the  third 
shot,  about  the  easiest  of  all.  I  need  hardly  say  they 
were  coming  slowly  against  the  wind,  and  swerved  a 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  199 


little  across  me  after  the  first  shot,  or  it  could  not  have 
been  done.     Keep  your  cartridges  in  your  right-hand 
pocket,  and  have  your  bag  on  the  seat,  wide  open,  on 
your  right,  unless  it  is  raining,  when  you  must  see 
them  bestowed  in  the  dry,  but  the  strap  of  the  bag 
left  unbuckled  ;  and  always  feed  your  gun  direct  from 
your  right-hand  pocket.     I  must  say  that  since  giving 
them  a  fair  trial  I  am  distinctly  in  favour  of  brass- 
covered   cartridges,  and  more   especially  for  grouse 
driving,  when  one  is.  so  often  overtaken  by  heavy 
showers,  during  which  the  necessity  for  quick  firing 
makes  it  impossible  to  keep  them  all  dry.     For  those 
who  use  ejectors,  they  will  be  found,  in  the  long  run, 
an  economy,  in  spite  of  their  trifling  additional  cost. 
The  ejectors  of  my  present  guns  (Purdey's)  have  never 
been  out  of  order  but  once,  and  that  was  when  I  got 
a  sodden  paper  cartridge  stuck  fast,  and   used  too 
much  force  to  extract  it.     We  usually  have  to  pay  a 
penalty  for  every  improvement  in  this  world,  and  the 
use  of  hammerless  guns  with  ejectors  is  no  exception 
to  the  rule.     The  mechanism  of  the  piece  is   more 
complicated,  and  requires  more  care  in  cleaning  and 
general   treatment ;  but  with   these  precautions  and 
brass-covered  cartridges  there  is  no  reason  whatever 
why  guns  of  this  improved  type,  turned  out  by  a  good 
maker,  should  get  out  of  order.     They  should  not  be 


SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


cleaned  with  anything  but  vaseline,  which  never  cor- 
rodes, and  only  a  moderate  quantity  of  that ;  the 
great  secret  being  to  keep  all  accessible  parts  of  the 
action  as  clean  and  dry  as  possible.  A  heavy-handed, 
ignorant  under-keeper,  whether  English  or  Scotch,  is 
rarely  fit  to  be  trusted  with  the  handling  or  cleaning 
of  such  valuable  articles  as  the  best  breech-loaders  of 
to-day. 

Whatever  may  be  said  to  the  contrary,  the  general 
verdict  of  those  who  have  the  best  opportunities  of 
judging  is  in  favour  of  the  best  guns  by  the  best 
makers.  You  will  often  hear  it  said  that  these 
makers'  charges  for  their  best  quality  of  guns  are 
'  outrageous,'  and  all  sorts  of  ugly  words  applied  to 
those  whose  position  in  the  trade  enables  them  to  set 
the  market  price  of  these  articles.  I  must  put  in  a 
plea  for  the  good  gunmaker.  It  would  be  invidious 
to  particularise,  but  there  are  several  makers  in  Lon- 
don whose  names  are  in  everybody's  mouth,  and  who 
turn  out  guns,  undoubtedly  high-priced,  but  which, 
to  my  thinking,  are  well  worth  the  money.  Everyone 
who  knows  anything  at  all  of  the  subject,  knows  that 
the  profit  on  the  best  quality  of  gun  is  not  heavy, 
much  smaller,  in  fact,  than  on  cheaper  articles 
of  all  sorts  supplied  by  the  trade  generally,  while 
most  of  the  most  valuable  part  of  the  work  is  not 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  201 


visible,  and  would  not  be  detected  by  the  inex- 
perienced. A  great  deal  of  personal  care,  as  well  as 
honest  and  dearly  paid  labour,  is  expended  on  a  pair 
of  '  best  guns  '  by  one  of  these  firms  ;  and  I  fail  to 
see  why  a  man  should  grumble  at  giving,  say,  I4O/. 
or  i5o/.,  or  even  more,  for  articles  which,  properly 
cared  for,  will  last  him  his  lifetime,  and  for  which  the 
demand  is  constantly  and  widely  increasing.  A  well- 
built  gun,  besides  its  practical  use,  is,  to  a  certain 
extent,  a  work  of  art,  and  it  should  be  borne  in 
mind  that  as  an  article  of  British  manufacture  it  still 
holds  its  place  against  the  competition  of  all  other 
countries  ;  and  that  whether  you  care  to  give  the 
price  or  not,  there  are  plenty  of  Frenchmen  Italians, 
Austrians  and  Americans,  without  reckoning  our  own 
colonists,  who  are  ready  enough  to  do  so.  The  class 
of  gunmaker  I  am  alluding  to  is  one  who  makes 
your  piece  to  order,  and  specially  to  fit  your 
individual  characteristics,  who  pays  very  high  for 
skilled  labour,  and  bestows  personal  judgment  and 
care,  the  outcome  of  actual  knowledge  of  working 
at  the  bench,  upon  every  detail  of  your  order.  There 
is  another  class,  who  advertise  weapons  of  extra- 
ordinary cheapness,  but  are  merely  agents  for  great 
manufacturing  firms,  who  have  a  large  stock  of  guns 
always  on  hand,  and  stand  in  the  same  relation  to 


202  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

those  mentioned  above  as  the  reach-me-down  clothes 
shop  to  the  high-class  West  End  tailor.  These 
I  cannot  recommend.  I  must  not  conclude  this 
necessary  digression  on  choice  of  guns  without  adding 
that  he  who  lives  in  the  country  entirely,  and  cannot 
afford  the  price  of  the  first-rate  London  firm,  will  do 
better  to  employ  a  provincial  maker  of  known  re- 
pute. Of  these  there  are  several  in  England  and 
Scotland  of  whom  very  excellent  judges  have  reason 
to  speak  in  terms  of  high  praise,  and  whose  work  is 
far  better  than  that  of  the  wholesale  heavily  puffed 
firms,  trading  under  assumed  London  names,  who 
falsely  profess  to  give  you  the  same  article  as  the  good 
makers  at  one-third  of  the  price. 

A  few  words  on  this  subject  have  not  appeared  to 
me  out  of  place  in  a  chapter  on  grouse  driving,  since 
it  is  precisely  in  this  branch  of  sport  that  guns  are 
put  to  the  most  severe  tests.  The  atmospheric  con- 
ditions, exposing  the  workmanship  of  your  piece  to 
great  extremes  of  heat,  wet  and  cold,  with  the  con- 
comitant condition  of  very  heavy  firing,  rapid  working 
of  the  mechanism,  and  maximum  of  expansion  or  con- 
traction of  the  metal,  try  the  workmanship  of  a  gun 
severely.  A  weapon  which  'jams'  in  the  middle  of  a 
good  grouse  drive  would  spoil  the  temper  of  an  arch- 
angel. In  the  arrangement  and  conduct  of  your  drives 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  203 


I  must  repeat,  with  even  greater  emphasis,  what  I  have 
said  in  the  volume  on  the  'Partridge'  concerning 
wind  ;  but  you  are  far  more  in  the  hands  of  your  head 
man  and  his  drivers  on  this  point  than  in  any  partridge 
drive.  The  latter  have  often  to  foot  it  some  miles, 
even  before  you  are  out  of  your  bed,  to  get  to  the 
remote  point  whence  they  will  start  the  first  drive. 
This  involves  organisation,  since,  living  possibly  some 
distance  apart,  they  will  not  all  start  from  the  same 
place,  and  probably  consist  of  two  parties,  each  of 
which  must  be  under  a  responsible  lieutenant  who 
thoroughly  knows  the  ground.  Consequently,  should 
it  be  advisable  to  change  the  beat  for  the  day  on 
account  of  wind,  or  even  the  method  of  beating  the 
ground,  you  must  be  able  to  rely  absolutely  upon  the 
judgment  and  decision  of  your  head  man. 

It  is  almost  indispensable  that  he  should  be  a  moor- 
land man,  born  and  bred,  though  I  admit  that  I  have 
come  across  one  or  two  notable  exceptions  to  this.  If 
he  doesn't  know  the  moors,  literally  up  hill  and  down 
dale,  every  turn  of  the  wind,  every  habit  of  the  grouse, 
and  every  dodge  of  the  driver,  he  is  of  no  use  to  you 
in  Yorkshire.  He  will  command  neither  the  confi- 
dence nor  the  obedience  of  his  drivers,  who,  being 
all  dalesmen  who  have  travelled  the  moors  and  fells 
all  their  lives,  know  a  good  deal  on  their  own  account, 


204  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

and  have  it  largely  in  their  power  to  frustrate  the  most 
elaborate  manoeuvres.  If  you  have  to  select  a  new 
chief,  it  is  far  better  to  promote  the  most  trustworthy 
of  the  men  who  have  been  driving  on  the  moor  for 
years,  rather  than  to  put  a  man  over  their  heads  who 
has  been  mostly  used  to  low-ground  shooting,  merely 
because  he  is  considered  'fit  for  a  head  keeper's 
place.' 

Very  difficult  manoeuvres  have  sometimes  to  be 
executed,  and  unless  your  moor  is  very  large  in  extent 
it  is  only  by  the  most  delicate  and  experienced  hand- 
ling, in  which  every  man  must  honestly  co-operate, 
that  the  birds  can  be  kept  upon  your  ground.  Five 
thousand  acres  is  not  nearly  enough  to  hold  large 
packs  in  a  high  wind,  unless  they  are  very  well  ma- 
naged. Suppose,  for  instance,  that  a  large  number  of 
birds  are  packed  at  the  head  of  a  valley  and  on  the 
ridge,  close  to  the  march,  and  there  is  a  strong  wind 
blowing  towards  the  march.  Unless  your  men  get 
round  very  gingerly,  keeping  out  of  sight  as  carefully 
as  a  stalker  getting  up  to  deer,  on  the  down-wind  side, 
the  game  is  up,  and  possibly  your  whole  day's  spcrt 
spoilt. 

I  have  seen  this  very  manoeuvre  beautifully  carried 
out,  and  even  the  birds,  having  somehow  taken  the 
alarm,  rise  and  make  a  big  circuit  round  near  the  march 


V 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  205 


before  the  two  flanks  of  the  drive  had  met;  the  whole  of 
the  men  on  the  windward  side  lay  flat  down  the  instant 
the  birds  rose,  and  that  without  a  word  of  command. 
The  pack  settled  down  again,  and  the  down-wind  side 
got  well  round  and  brought  them  on  over  our  heads. 
What  would  an  obstinate  Scotchman  with  recalcitrant 
drivers  say  to  that  ! 

If,  again,  the  head  man  is  one  in  whom  his  drivers 
have  complete  confidence,  and  who  has  trained  his  lieu- 
tenants to  carry  out  his  orders  whether  he  is  present  or 
not,  he  can  enjoy  the  inestimable  advantage  of  placing 
himself  on  the  flank  close  to  the  guns,  or  of  going 
into  one  of  the  butts  with  his  master  or  some  other 
shooter,  and  observing  the  exact  result  of  his  plan  of 
campaign,  and  what  alterations,  if  any,  should  be 
made  in  the  line  of  butts.  It  is  also  an  excellent 
thing,  should  opportunity  serve,  to  let  him  visit  other 
moors  where  good  driving  is  carried  on,  and  where  he 
may  pick  up  a  new  wrinkle  or  two,  or  get  rid  of  ideas 
which  may  be  too  local. 

I  urge  these  points  because  it  is  impossible  to  in- 
oculate a  man  with  the  instinct  which  alone  makes  a 
first-rate  grouse  driver.  The  theory  of  the  dis- 
position of  your  drivers,  the  horse-shoe  formation,  the 
placing  of  the  flankers,  and  the  method  of  progres- 
sion, is  now  thoroughly  familiar  to  all  immediately 


206  SHOOTING   THE   GROUSE 

concerned  in  English  driving.  I  have  gone  into  it  in 
greater  detail  in  the  chapter  on  Scotch  Driving,  in 
order,  if  possible,  to  be  of  use  to  those  who  wish  to 
introduce  it  on  Scotch  moors,  or  to  persuade  such  as 
oppose  the  system  from  ignorant,  conservative,  or  in- 
terested motives,  of  its  practical  value  to  their  ground. 

In  the  construction  and  placing  of  the  butts  a  few 
points  should  be  noted.  The  larger  and  more  com- 
modious they  are  the  better,  seven  feet  square  on 
the  inside  being  about  the  most  convenient  size  ; 
and  there  should  be  a  seat  of  heather  sods  or  flat 
stones  in  each  corner.  Some  spare  sods  should 
always  be  cut  and  left  close  outside  them,  that  there 
may  be  something  for  a  tall  man  to  build  up  his 
front  wall  with,  should  it  be  too  low.  The  floor  must 
be  absolutely  level  and  well  drained.  At  Mr.  Riming- 
ton  Wilson's  at  Broomhead,  on  the  Sheffield  range, 
the  butts  have  board  floors,  a  great  comfort  to  the 
shooters  in  many  ways ;  but  on  many  moors  the  cart- 
ing of  timber  up  to  the  butts  would  be  impracticable  ; 
and  on  this  particular  moor  on  the  principal  days  the 
driving  is  all  done  to  two  lines  of  butts  close  together, 
one  on  each  side  of  a  little  gully,  which  has  probably 
witnessed  the  slaying  of  more  grouse  than  any  spot 
of  its  size  in  the  British  Islands. 

A  point  of  extreme  importance,  for  the  safety  of 


ENGLISH  DRIVING 


207 


the  shooters,  is  that  all  the  butts  should  be  '  dressed  ' 
square  with  the  line  ;  that  is,  that  the  front  should  be 
at  right  angles  to  the  direction  of  the  drive.  I  have 
often,  when  in  a  butt  set  askew,  found  myself  bothered 
in  the  hurry  of  quick  firing  to  remember  the  exact 
line,  and  on  reflection  am  convinced  that  many  of  the 
accidents  that  have  occurred  in  grouse  driving  have 


FIG.  6. 

been  due  to  this  cause.     The  diagram  will  perhaps 
explain  what  I  mean. 

The  butts  A,  B,  c,  together  with  the  rest  of  the 
row  not  shown,  are  all  on  the  line  E  E — at  right  angles 
to  the  general  direction  of. the  drive.  Now  the  man 
in  the  butt  B,  though  he  will  doubtless  survey  the 
position  of  his  neighbours  before  the  drive  begins,  will 


208  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

probably,  after  his  attention  has  become  riveted  on  a 
succession  of  approaching  birds,  begin  instinctively  to 
face  the  front  wall  of  his  butt.  Being  so  used  to 
finding  his  neighbours  placed  at  right  angles  to  the 
side  walls  of  his  butt,  and  on  the  same  line  as  the 
front,  that  danger  in  this  quarter  has  become  a  matter 
of  instinct  rather  than  observation,  his  brain  will 
imagine  them  to  be  located  on  the  line  DD.  This 
delusion  may  only  last  a  moment  or  two  while  he  is 
watching  birds  ;  but  it  may  lead  him  to  shoot  at  a 
bird  at  the  point  F,  and  so  seriously  damage  the 
man  in  the  butt  c,  or  on  the  other  side  to  take  a 
shot  at  the  point  G,  imagining  the  bird  to  have  passed 
the  line,  and  so  to  injure  the  man  in  the  butt  A. 

I  have  no  evidence  to  prove  that  accidents  have 
occurred  from  this  cause,  but  they  have  occurred  at 
drives  where  I  have  seen  butts  placed  in  this  manner, 
and  I  have  myself  been  so  near  shooting  my  neighbour 
under  these  circumstances  that  it  cannot  be  wrong  to 
point  out  the  possible  danger. 

Let  there  be  always  plenty  of  butts  on  the  moor, 
that  you  may  be  able  to  drive  according  to  the  wind. 
If  in  any  drive  you  notice  that  two  or  three  of  the 
guns  invariably  get  all  the  shooting,  it  is  better  to 
put  two  or  possibly  three  in  a  second  line  behind 
them,  being  careful  they  are  fully  200  yards  off,  any 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  209 


less  distance   not   being  safe  for   the   eyes  of  your 
friends. 

In  the  early  part  of  the  season  it  is  better  not  to 
have  too  many  drivers  ;  the  birds  which  they  pass  by 
without  flushing  will  be  all  young  ones,  precisely  those 
required  for  breeding  stock,  and  if  they  came  on,  as 
they  would,  at  the  end  of  the  drive,  singly  and  flying 
very  slowly,  they  would  all  be  massacred.  If  your 
moor  is  at  the  end  of  a  spur  of  the  greater  range,  you 
can  always  insure  a  good  double  drive  by  pushing 
them  first  to  the  end,  next  the  cultivated  land,  and 
then  bringing  them  back ;  but  in  such  a  case  your 
men  had  better  sweep  in  some  of  the  pastures  below 
the  end  of  the  moor,  on  which  there  are  sure  to  be 
birds.  This  formation  of  ground  accounts  partially 
for  the  certainty  with  which  a  large  bag  can  be  made 
on  many  moors,  notably  on  Broomhead  and  Blubber- 
house.1  In  severe  or  bad  breeding  seasons  the  lower 
moors  will  suffer  less  than  the  higher,  and  as  the 
former  will  be  always  fed,  to  a  certain  extent,  by  the 
latter,  and  have  the  advantage  of  them,  it  behoves 
the  owner  of  moorland  which  is  lower  than  his 
neighbours,  and  constitutes  the  end  of  a  large  ridge 
or  stretch,  not  to  be  too  hard  upon  the  birds,  especially 
late  on  in  the  season.  Were  he  able  to  kill  every 

*  Mr.  Rimington  Wilson's  and  Lord  Walsingham's  respectively. 

P 


SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


bird  upon  his  land,  it  would  undoubtedly  be  re-stocked 
from  the  higher  ground,  and  in  the  winter  months, 
when  mild  weather  prevails  higher  up,  he  is  sure  to 
have  many  more  than  his  share  upon  his  ground. 

The  counting  and  picking  up  of  the  dead  birds  is 
a  subject  for  serious  consideration.  I  well  remember, 
twenty  years  ago  in  Yorkshire,  amongst  a  few  of  us 
who  met  constantly  and  whose  comparative  form 
would  have  been  difficult  to  handicap,  every  day's 
grouse  driving  might  as  well  have  been  a  valuable 
sweepstake  or  a  series  of  matches  for  ioo/.  a  side, 
so  keen  was  the  rivalry,  the  scoring,  and  the  picking 
up.  But  I  cannot  say  that  it  was  a  desirable  state  of 
things.  The  counting  of  what  you  have  killed  is  no 
doubt  necessary,  but  it  might  be  done  on  the  same 
principle  as  I  have  recommended  for  partridge  driving, 
that  is,  keeping  a  score  of  the  claims  without  putting 
them  against  any  names.  That  which  promotes  keen- 
ness is  good  ;  that  which  provokes  jealousy  is  surely 
bad.  The  lines  of  pegs  halfway  between  each  butt, 
recommended  by  Sir  R.  Payne-Gallwey,  were  first 
adopted,  I  believe,  upon  a  suggestion  of  mine  at 
Broomhead  some  years  ago,  and  Mr.  Wilson  has  seen 
no  reason  to  remove  them  since.  To  insure  bagging 
all  that  have  been  knocked  down,  as  well  as  in  the 
interests  of  humanity,  there  should  always  be  a  pro- 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  211 


fessional  '  picker  up '  in  the  person  of  a  keeper  with 
a  brace  or  more  of  retrieving  spaniels,  who  should 
hunt  round  the  ine  of  butts  after  the  guns  have 
gathered  all  they  can.  An  old  pointer  or  setter  is 
not  bad  for  this  work,  but  spaniels  that  will  hunt  close, 
if  they  are  not  too  hard-mouthed,  are  better.  Should 
you  be  a  breeder  of  retrievers,  here  is  a  good  oppor- 
tunity for  your  dog  man  to  do  a  little  breaking  in  ; 
and  if  they  are  well  under  control,  there  is  no  doubt 
they  are  the  best  of  all. 

I  well  remember  the  first  appearance  of  old  John 
Young,  Lord  Londesborough's  head  man  for  over  a 
quarter  of  a  century,  upon  a  West  Riding  moor  in 
1871.  He  was  supposed  never  to  have  seen  a  grouse, 
though  a  veteran  in  years  and  in  experience  of  field 
and  covert.  He  brought  with  him  three  of  the  most 
useful-looking  brown  retrievers  to  pick  up  his  master's 
birds.  Clad  as  he  was  in  a  heavy  green  velveteen 
coat  with  brass  buttons,  a  red  waistcoat,  thick  cord 
breeches,  and  gaiters,  and  an  enormous  gold-laced 
hat,  he  appeared  to  radiate  heat  and  light  on  all 
around,  and  was  a  sufficiently  striking  object  on  the 
heather  on  a  sweltering  September  day.  He  had 
about  eight  grouse  in  each  hand,  and  his  dogs  were 
still  diligently  hunting,  when  we  came  across  him,  far 
away  from  his  master's  butt.  We  chaffed  him  on  the 


212  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


fact  that,  though  he  was  a  novice  to  grouse,  he  seemed 
to  be  a  pretty  good  hand  at  picking  up.  Laying  down 
his  birds,  and  raising  the  gold-laced  beaver  with  an 
air  peculiar  to  him,  '  Never  was  on  a  moor  before  in 
my  life,  I  can  assure  you,  gentlemen,'  he  said,  with 
perfect  courtesy.  Nevertheless,  he  had  gathered  about 
fifteen  more  birds  than  his  master,  always  a  most 
generous  neighbour,  had  claimed ;  and  though  he 
must  have  narrowly  escaped  an  apoplectic  fit,  he  and 
his  dogs  continued  to  work  equally  hard  all  day. 

In  laying  out  your  lines  of  butts,  bear  in  mind 
that  there  is  no  invariable  necessity  for  your  driving 
line  to  progress  from  a  given  base  in  a  direct  line  to 
the  centre  of  the  butts.  It  frequently  occurs  that  on 
a  particular  range  of  moor  the  birds  will  always  fly  in 
a  great  curve,  or  a  complete  ring,  eventually  getting 
back  in  this  manner  to  the  ground  they  were  flushed 
upon.  In  this  case  you  must  also  drive  on  a  curve, 
and  the  first  half  of  the  beat  may  have  to  be  driven 
by  advancing  almost  at  right  angles  to  the  direction 
desired,  or,  so  to  speak,  across  the  face  of  the  row  of 
butts.  As  in  this  diagram,  for  instance,  you  may  wish 
to  drive  your  birds,  mostly  lying  about  A,  to  some- 
where about  the  point  D. 

But  for  reasons  connected  with  the  nature  of  the 
ground,  they  will  not  fly  from  A  to  D  direct,  but  in- 


ENGLISH  DRIVING 


213 


variably  fly  from  A  in  the  curves  indicated,  alighting 
mostly  at  the  points  x  x.  Now,  make  your  formation 
as  shown  here,  follow  their  curve  to  the  point  x  with 

C 

f     P  P 


FIG.  7. 


214  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


the  main  body  of  your  men,  and  on  flushing  them 
again  at  the  points  x  x  you  will  find  they  fly  on  to 
one  or  other  of  the  points  about  D,  where  I  have  in- 
dicated lines  of  butts. 

To  arrive  at  these  things  you  must  either  be  on 
the  moor  as  constantly  as  a  keeper  or  a  shepherd,  or 
have  out  a  few  men  and  make  experimental  drives, 
letting  your  head  man  lie  on  a  high  point,  whence  he 
can  command  a  view  of  the  whole  manoeuvre. 

The  endless  varieties  and  possibilities  of  managing 
grouse  according  to  conditions  of  ground,  wind,  and 
season,  will  afford  you  many  interesting  and  pleasant 
days  between  the  intervals  of  your  shooting  parties, 
while  they  will  add  immensely  to  your  enjoyment  of 
the  results. 

For  actual  marksmanship  I  must  refer  my  readers 
to  what  I  have  endeavoured  to  make  clear  in  the 
volume  on  '  Partridge '  of  this  series,  and  to  the  dia- 
grams explaining  the  reasons  for  shooting  over  birds, 
&c.,  repeating  once  more  that  it  is  impossible  to  teach 
anyone  how  to  shoot  driven  birds.  With  driven  grouse 
the  necessity  for  shooting  high  is  even  more  marked 
than  with  partridges.  You  will  get  many  more  shots 
on  the  level  and  below  you,  and  in  aiming  at  these  you 
must  constantly  bear  in  mind  to  avoid  the  tendency 
to  dwell  or  poke  at  the  birds.  This  always  results 


ENGLISH  DRIVING  215 

more  or  less  in  your  dropping  the  muzzle  of  the  gun 
and  shooting  underneath.  You  will  often-  see  very 
bad  practice  made  at  grouse  flying  very  low,  creeping 
as  it  were  over  the  heather,  and  perhaps  going  slowly 
against  the  wind.  Here  all  the  missing  takes  place 
from  shooting  under  them.  The  only  way  to  avoid  it 
is  to  form  the  habit  of  firing  the  instant  the  gun  is  firm 
on  the  shoulder,  and  of  striking  your  aim  high,  almost 
as  though  you  would  shoot  just  over  the  bird's  back. 

Many  people  think  they  miss  these  birds  from 
shooting  in  front  of  them.  I  fancy  this  is  rarely 
the  case,  but  at  any  rate  the  matter  can  be  easily 
tested  by  firing  one  or  two  shots  straight  at  them,  and 
watching  the  result.  You  will  find  that  you  kill  low- 
flying  birds  more  easily  when  they  are  above  you  than 
below,  a  fact  which  sufficiently  proves  that  in  aiming 
at  the  latter  it  is  the  depression  of  the  muzzle  which 
accounts  for  the  missing.  Keep  the  left  arm  well 
forward,  and  lift  it  well,  relying  upon  this  member 
entirely  for  the  swing  and  support  of  your  piece. 
You  have  less  to  guide  your  eye  in  the  way  of  station- 
ary objects,  such  as  trees,  &c.,  in  grouse  driving,  and 
therefore  you  must  make  up  your  mind  to  rely  more 
than  ever  on  calculation  as  to  where  to  aim.  The 
principle,  which  I  have  before  advocated,  of  rapidly 
deciding  in  your  mind  where  the  spot  is  in  the  air  at 


216  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

which  your  shot  will  intercept  the  bird's  flight,  and 
throwing  your  gun  directly  and  quickly  upon  it,  is 
the  only  one  by  which  you  can  compete  with  the 
endless  variety  of  angle,  curve,  elevation  and  pace, 
which  lends  to  the  flight  of  driven  grouse  its  un- 
doubted fascination.  There  can  be  no  'knack'  in 
excelling  at  a  sport  which  presents  this  feature  in  the 
highest  degree  of  all.  The  individual  driven  grouse 
which  comes  straight  at  your  nose  on  a  still  day  is 
easy  enough,  but  these  are  the  '  half-volleys '  of  grouse 
driving,  and  to  hit  them  does  not  necessarily  make 
you  a  good  bat.  It  is  a  very  different  matter  to  realise 
the  proper  total  from  a  succession  of  fine  drives  under 
varying  conditions  of  light,  locality  and  wind  ;  and 
when  the  day  comes  that  you  have  achieved  this,  in 
first-rate  form  from  start  to  finish,  you  will  sleep  like 
a  public-school  boy  who  has  made  100  at  Lord's,  or 
a  Prime  Minister  who  has  carried  a  great  measure 
through  the  Commons  by  a  triumphant  majority,  per- 
haps the  two  most  enviable  achievements  known  in 
this  country. 


217 


CHAPTER  V 

GROUND,    STOCK,    AND   POACHING 

IT  is  beginning  to  be  generally  understood  that  a 
moor,  whether  English  or  Scotch,  will  not  produce  the 
stock  of  grouse  demanded  by  modern  ideas,  or  to 
satisfy  appetites  whetted  by  the  experience  of  excep- 
tional seasons  and  results,  without  due  attention  to  the 
management  of  the  ground,  and  to  the  nourishment  of 
a  healthy  stock  of  birds.  The  old  system  of  treat- 
ing grouse  entirely  as  fera  nature,  and  trusting 
them  and  the  ground  on  which  they  breed  to 
the  development  of  nature,  may  leave  you  always  a 
sprinkling  of  birds,  but  will  not  give  you  the  stock  you 
have  a  right  to  expect  after  paying  the  high  value 
which  such  shooting  now  commands,  nor  satisfy  the 
requirements  of  your  friends.  Further,  it  is  found 
that  however  large  the  supply,  the  demand  for  these, 
the  best  of  all  game  birds  for  the  table,  increases  pro- 
portionately, and  that  it  is  possible  to  throw  away 
a  great  deal  of  good  money  and  food  supply  by 


218  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

allowing  incompetence  or  want  of  care  to  decrease  the 
productive  powers  of  good  moorland. 

Again,  as  this  demand  increases  and  the  subject  is 
more  and  more  widely  ventilated,  the  ingenuity  of  the 
poacher,  the  pothunter,  and  the  receiver  of  poached  or 
illegally  killed  game  becomes  annually  more  formid- 
able. The  only  saving  clause  is  that  the  red  grouse 
being  universally  known  to  be  exclusively  indigenous 
to  the  British  Islands,  we  do  not  see  the  poulterer's 
shops  in  March,  April,  or  May  full  of  '  Siberian '  or 
'  Norwegian  '  grouse  stolen  from  British  moors,  as  we 
undoubtedly  should  if  the  species  were  found  in  those 
foreign  countries.  I  must  refer  my  readers  to  my 
remarks  in  the  volume  on  '  The  Partridge '  as  to  the 
illegally  procured  birds  which  come  into  the  London 
markets  on  August  12  and  September  i,  and  to 
the  suggestions  I  there  made,  which  I  now  wish  to 
urge  again.  Owners  and  lessees  of  shootings  seem 
for  the  most  part  not  to  have  realised  the  extent  of 
the  illicit  traffic  in  game,  which  applies  to  grouse 
almost  more  than  any  other  kind  ;  and  I  venture  again 
to  express  the  hope  that  some  one  with  more  leisure 
and  more  influence  than  I  have  may  found  some  Asso- 
ciation to  combat  this  evil  in  a  businesslike  manner. 
Those  who  are  in  London  on  August  1 2  may  be  quite 
certain  that  any  grouse  that  is  offered  to  them, 


GROUND,   STOCK,   AND  POACHING         219 


unless  sent  direct  by  a  friend  from  his  own  moor,  is 
a  poached,  practically  a  stolen,  bird.  I  remember 
being  served  with  one  which  was  absolutely  putrid  on 
the  Twelfth,  some  years  ago,  at  a  well-known  London 
restaurant.  An  old  friend,  the  late  Lord  Dupplin, 
was  dining  near  me,  and  had  an  equally  bad  one 
served  to  him.  We  agreed  to  send  them  both  away — 
in  fact,  though  the  price  was  14*.  per  bird,  they 
were  uneatable — but  the  head  waiter  explained  (?) 
to  us  that  this  was  the  true  flavour  of  the  grouse,  and 
that  we  were  ignorant.  Poor  Duppy !  I  can  see  his 
face  of  mingled  disgust  and  amusement  now  •  at  the 
idea  of  a  crapulous  Swiss  waiter  explaining  to  him  and 
me  what  a  grouse  ought  to  taste  like. 

But  since  the  price  that  can  be  obtained  for  these 
birds  on  the  Twelfth  will  always  be  a  temptation  to 
the  evilly  disposed,  it  behoves  owners  to  look  closely 
after  what  happens  in  the  moorland  districts  in  the 
week  preceding  that  day.  They  cannot  always  be  on 
the  spot  at  that  time,  but  if  an  association  or  league, 
such  as  I  suggested  in  the  former  volume,  were 
formed,  trained  detectives  could  easily  watch  the 
consignments  passing  through  certain  centres  from 
t  the  moorland,  and  trace  their  origin  and  destination. 
It  has  even  come  to  this,  that,  as  I  am  informed,  silk 
and  other  nets  are  actually  provided  by  London 


220  SHOOTING   THE   GROUSE 


poulterers,  and  are  supplied  to  their  fellow-culprits 
in  this  traffic,  if  not  to  the  poachers  direct ;  and  no 
questions  are  asked  as  long  as  they  get  the  supply  of 
grouse  for  sale  on  the  Twelfth.  This  is  a  disgraceful 
state  of  things  ;  and  it  should  be  remembered  that, 
without  troubling  Parliament  with  further  legislation 
(which,  unhappily,  in  these  days  is  beset  with  diffi- 
culties of  all  kinds),  there  is  ample  law  to  put  a  stop 
to  these  practices  if  only  trouble  is  taken  to  run  the 
offenders  to  ground. 

It  would  be  impossible  to  prevent  the  sale  itself 
of  grouse  at  a  distance  from  the  moors,  say  in  London 
or  elsewhere,  but  at  least  those  who  are  fond  of  sport 
may  do  something  to  check  the  demand.  I  would, 
therefore,  beg  all  good  sportsmen  who  may  be  far 
from  the  moors  on  the  Twelfth  to  restrain  their  appe- 
tite for  grouse,  and  refuse  to  purchase  any  for  a  day 
or  two  at  least.  If  this  were  universally  done  in 
restaurants  and  clubs,  it  would  go  far  towards  check- 
ing the  evil,  and  those  to  whom  I  appeal  would  be 
spared  the  indignation  or  gastronomic  disappoint- 
ment which  they  will  probably  experience  on  being 
offered  a  grouse  of  a  week  old  which  purports  to  have 
been  killed  that  morning. 

Grouse  are  poached  in  many  ways,  and  one  of  the 
most  destructive  is  the  recently  introduced  practice 


GROUND,   STOCK',    AND   POACHING         221 


of  surrounding  a  moor  with  nets,  which  catch  the 
birds  as  they  fly  off  it  on  to  the  neighbouring  pas- 
tures. This  has  been  carried  to  such  a  pitch  in  some 
parts  of  Yorkshire,  Westmoreland,  and  the  other 
northern  counties,  that  the  value  of  a  moor  becomes 
seriously  affected  by  it.  A  sort  of  blackmail  is  set 
up,  which  obliges  anyone  taking  the  moor  either  to 
hire  all  the  adjoining  pasture  land  as  well,  or  to  enter 
into  an  agreement  with  certain  parties  not  to  net  in 
this  manner — for  either  of  which  forms  of  protection 
he  is  mulcted  in  proportion  to  the  value  of  the  net- 
ting on  such  ground,  often  amounting  to  nearly  as 
large  a  number  of  birds  as  he  will  get  on  the  moor 
proper  by  fair  shooting.  On  one  Yorkshire  moor 
that  I  know  this  lately  became  so  serious,  and  the 
stock  was  getting  so  much  reduced,  that  the  owner 
purchased  netting  himself,  which  he  set  on  the  moor 
edges  in  charge  of  his  own  men,  so  as  to  intercept 
the  birds  before  they  reached  the  enemy's  nets,  those 
taken  being  merely  set  at  liberty  again.  Miles  of 
this  netting  these  poachers  have  in  some  places,  so 
that  the  protecting  nets  of  the  owner  and  the  con- 
stant watching  become  a  serious  consideration. 

It  is  difficult  to  see  how  this  can  be  prevented  by 
the  operation  of  law,  since  where  it  is  done  on  any 
scale  the  net  owners  are  careful  to  take  out  a  game 


SHOOTING 'THE   GROUSE 


licence,  and  to  keep  strictly  to  their  own  ground. 
But  a  great  deal  of  netting  is  done  illegally  on  other 
people's  ground,  both  by  night  and  day — pure  poach- 
ing, in  fact — and  has  become  a  very  common  and 
lucrative  business.  This  is  due  almost  entirely  to  the 
supineness  or  ignorance  of  the  owners  of  moors,  who 
for  the  most  part  are  not  in  the  locality  at  the  time 
when  it  is  done,  and  who  seem  to  me  much  too  ready 
to  accept  the  invariable  excuse  of  '  disease '  or  '  cold 
breeding  season '  for  the  low  stock  of  birds  on  the 
ground. 

As  with  partridges  and  other  game,  I  have  always 
observed  that  where  there  are  really  first-rate  and 
honest  keepers,  there  is  always  a  pretty  good  stock  of 
grouse.  Of  course  seasons  will  vary,  and  anyone 
used  to  the  moors  will  know  pretty  well  when  to  make 
the  allowance  for  bad  weather,  &c. ;  but  it  is  astonish- 
ing how  lightly  moors  suffer  from  this  cause  or  from 
disease  when  the  keeper  and  his  subordinates  are 
thoroughly  trustworthy.  The  only  remedy  you  have  as 
an  owner  is  to  pay  strictly  -bj  results.  The  details 
must  be  left  to  your  administrator,  the  keeper.  So 
long  as  you  have  a  good  show  of  birds,  allowing  for 
variation  of  seasons,  your  ground  is  well  burnt,  and 
all  the  other  details  well  looked  after,  keep  and  reward 
him  as  much  as  you  can.  But  if  the  totals  begin  to  fall 


GROUND,    STOCK,   AND  POACHING          223 


gradually  year  by  year,  the  heather  remains  long  and 
old,  the  driving  slack  and  listless,  and  you  are  puzzled 
to  account  for  the  deterioration  of  your  moor,  change 
your  whole  staff  of  keepers,  tell  your  new  ones  that 
you  expect  certain  results  and  mean  to  have  them, 
and  in  a  year  or  two  you  will  probably  be  astonished 
to  find  how  the  grouse  have  taken  to  your  ground 
again. 

On  high  moors  you  are  liable  to  lose  a  great  many 
birds  by  their  leaving  the  ground  for  lower  ranges  in 
severe  weather.  It  is  quite  worth  while  to  feed  them 
a  little  at  such  times.  It  is  chiefly  when  the  snow  is 
caked  or  frozen  over  with  a  very  thin  coating  of  ice, 
and  they  cannot  scratch  through  it  to  get  food,  that 
they  are  most  pinched  and  may  leave  the  ground, 
never  to  come  back.  I  remember  Mr.  Walter  Stan- 
hope l  telling  me  that  in  the  very  hard  winter  of 
1859-60  the  grouse  on  his  Dunford  Bridge  moors 
left  the  ground  in  hundreds  ;  many  were  killed  in  the 
fields  in  a  half-starved  state,  and  even  one  or  two  in 
the  barrack  square  at  Sheffield,  some  fifteen  miles  off. 
He  then  sent  men  up  to  the  moor  with  long  rakes,  and 

1  Mr.  Walter  Spencer  Stanhope,  who  for  many  years  re- 
presented one  of  the  divisions  of  the  West  Riding  in  Parliament. 
An  admirable  letter  from  his  pen  is  given  in  the  Badminton 
Library,  Shooting,  vol.  ii.  p.  II,  describing  some  of  the  earliest 
methods  and  results  of  driving  grouse. 


224  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


as  they  raked  the  snow  off  the  grouse  followed  them 
close,  as  gulls  will  follow  the  plough,  or  chickens  the 
good-wife  in  the  poultry  yard,  perfectly  tame. 

Your  keepers  should  see  to  these  methods  of  help- 
ing them  to  feed  in  severe  weather,  and  not,  as  is  too 
often  the  case,  helplessly  gape  at  the  half-starved 
packs  sitting  on  walls  or  scratching  at  the  ground  in 
the  fields  below  the  moorland,  until,  forced  by  hunger, 
they  rise  and  fly  clean  away  in  search  of  milder 
conditions. 

The  same  authority  (Mr.  Stanhope)  always  ex- 
pressed himself  in  favour  of  plantations  round  and 
about  the  edges  of  the  moors.  Though  they  may 
attain  no  value  as  timber,  they  will  prove  a  great  pro- 
tection to  the  grouse  in  a  heavy  snow.  Then  they  will 
be  able  to  creep  under  the  boughs  of  the  stunted 
larches  or  spruces,  scratching  and  picking  a  bit  when 
they  cannot  get  at  food  or  shelter  on  the  open  moor. 
Grouse,  I  believe,  very  rarely  die  of  cold,  excepting  the 
devoted  hens,  which  sometimes  allow  themselves  to 
be  frozen,  or  so  pinched  by  the  cold  while  sitting  on 
their  nests  that  they  succumb  within  a  short  time.  But 
they  suffer  severely  from  starvation  in  hard  winters, 
and  although  their  moving  off  the  ground  in  large 
packs  in  search  of  food  may,  as  Mr.  Rimington  Wilson 
has  observed,  serve  to  mingle  the  blood  and  improve 


GROUND,   STOCK,   AND  POACHING         12$ 

the  breeding  stock  on  the  ground  they  move  to,  it  will 
hardly  benefit  you  on  the  deserted  high  ground,  as 
few  of  them,  if  any,  are  likely  to  return.  Grouse 
travel  much  longer  distances  than  is  generally  sup- 
posed, and  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  many  a  Scotch 
bird  has  been  killed  well  on  this  side  of  the  border. 
Lord  Huntingfield  is  said  to  have  seen  a  pack  of 
grouse  flying  over  his  place  in  Norfolk.  I  have  not 
his  lordship's  word  for  it,  but  have  often  heard  it  from 
friends  of  his,  and  certainly  his  authority  would  be 
indisputable,  after  the  many  hundreds  his  unerring 
aim  has  accounted  for.1 

Mr.  Rimington  Wilson,  in  an  admirable  letter  to 
the  '  Field  '  of  September  10,  1892,  gives  four  principal 
points  to  be  attended  to  in  the  management  of  a 
moor  : 

1.  Heather  burning. 

2.  Driving  v.  shooting  in  other  ways. 

3.  Keeping  down  vermin. 

4.  Sheep,  £c. 

To  these  I  would  add  : 

5.  Watchful  protection  against  poachers. 

6.  Feeding  &c.  in  hard  weather. 

1  I  have  only  shot  one  week  with  Lord  Huntingfield.  His 
accuracy  was  marvellous,  while  never  appearing  to  take  a  long 
shot.  It  was  a  very  pretty  lesson,  and  one  which  I  am  proud 
to  have  learnt. 


226  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


7.  Planting  round  and  upon  lower  parts  of  your 
moor. 

As  regards  burning,  it  is  instructive  to  find  Mr. 
Wilson,  Lord  Walsingham,  and  the  Mackintosh  (see 
p.  156)  all  agreed  as  to  the  necessity  of  this  system 
in  order  to  keep  the  heather  in  a  healthy  condition. 
Mr.  Wilson  believes  in  burning  altogether  any  large 
tract  of  deep  old  heather,  though  as  a  general  rule 
the  moor  should  be  burnt  in  strips.  Where  possible 
these  should  run  parallel  with  your  lines  of  butts. 
He  remarks  also  on  the  splendid  stretches  of  young 
heather  following  on  an  accidental  fire.  I  have 
noticed  the  same  myself,  and  fully  agree  with  him 
that  most  moors  are  not  severely  enough  burned. 
The  old  heather  is  always  damp  underneath,  affords 
no  healthy  food  for  grouse  or  sheep,  and  is  abominable 
to  walk  through.  Artistically  speaking,  I  regret  that 
I  must  give  my  verdict  in  favour  of  systematic  burn- 
ing, while,  practically,  I  must  own  that  it  is  absolutely 
essential  for  the  healthy  condition  of  the  grouse.  On 
a  moor  that  is  exclusively  '  dogged '  it  must  be  burnt 
in  patches,  so  that  the  young  birds,  feeding  on  the 
very  young  shoots,  may  have  close  to  them  the  resort 
of  good  cover  in  an  older  patch,  and  avoid  being 
driven  off  their  feed  by  the  older  birds,  and  that  they 
may  thus  be  more  evenly  distributed  over  the  ground. 


GROUND,   STOCK,   AND  POACHING         227 

On  driving  v.  shooting  over  dogs  I  have  already 
delivered  myself  in  other  chapters  of  this  volume, 
but  must  again  quote  Mr.  Wilson  :  '  It  is,  perhaps, 
superfluous  to  remark  that  to  make  a  moor  as  pro- 
ductive as  possible  shooting  over  dogs  ought  to 
be  allowed  to  a  very  limited  extent,  if  at  all.  The 
candle  should  not  be  burnt  at  both  ends' 

A  certain  number  of  sheep  will  do  no  harm  upon  a 
moor,  but  too  many  will  do  a  great  deal;  while  cattle 
and  horses  will  always  cause  the  heather  to  deteriorate, 
and  a  coarse,  rank  kind  of  grass  to  spring  up,  which 
is  not  good  for  pasture  and  useless  for  grouse.  Here, 
again,  liberality  and  a  kindly  feeling  to  the  shepherds 
will  do  more  for  your  stock  than  anything.  They 
have  it  in  their  hands  to  injure  if  not  to  cripple  your 
sport  altogether.  Their  dogs  can  destroy  in  an  hour 
in  the  breeding  season  what  would  give  you  a  good 
day's  driving  later  on.  But  I  have  always  found  them 
a  kindly  and  simple  race  of  people,  and  if  well  treated 
they  will  see  that  their  flocks  do  not  trample  on  the 
nests  or  young  birds,  and  that  their  dogs  do  not 
career  wildly  over  the  moor  during  the  nesting  period. 
They  are  really  your  best  and  most  loyal  grouse- 
keepers  if  you  enlist  them  on  your  side;  and  besides 
so  ordering  their  work  on  the  hills  as  not  to  injure 
the  grouse,  they  can  render  immense  assistance  to 

(1  2 


228  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

your  keepers  in  the  tracking  of  vermin,  detection  of 
poaching,  and  other  such  matters,  besides  sometimes 
lending  willing  and  skilful  aid  to  the  management 
of  your  drives.  Moral  :  above  all  things  be  kind 
and  liberal  to  the  shepherds  and  farmers. 

Mr.  Wilson  omits  to  mention  protection  against 
poaching,  though  his  moors  lie  in  a  country  where  it 
is  well  understood  ;  but  I  think  I  can  account  for 
this.  I  said  above  that  good  keepers  always  have  a 
good  show  of  game  ;  and  certainly  his  head  man,  Ward, 
is  an  excellent  example  of  this.  A  past  master  in 
the  art  of  driving,  his  is  also  a  name  of  terror  to 
poachers,  and  in  the  security  which  so  loyal  a  servant 
inspires,  Mr.  Wilson  may  well  have  forgotten  how 
little  his  boundaries  might  be  respected  were  they 
under  less  formidable  protection. 

In  addition  to  feeding  the  birds  and  raking  off 
the  frozen  snow  in  winter,  I  would  endorse  what  the 
Mackintosh  says  as  to  the  improvement  of  the  water 
supply  by  puddling  up  the  streams,  and  making  many 
little  reservoirs,  so  as  to  insure  the  birds  plenty  to 
drink  in  a  very  dry  breeding  season,  such  as  we  ex- 
perienced last  year  (1893). 

Vermin  must  be  thoroughly  kept  down,  and  on 
Scotch  moors,  terminating  as  they  mostly  do  in  high 
rocky  ground,  it  is  no  easy  work  to  keep  in  check  the 


GROUND,   STOCK,  AND  POACHING         229 

depredations  of  foxes,  crows,  jackdaws,  eagles,  ravens, 
stoats,  weasels,  hawks  of  all  kinds,  and  even  occasion- 
ally wild  cats,  or  cats  which  have  become  wild  and 
taken  to  the  rocks  and  ravines.  I  would  never  kill 
an  eagle,  but  rather  keep  so  grand  a  bird  on  the  best 
my  moor  provided,  nor  would  I,  personally,  shoot  a 
peregrine;  but  the  other  species  I  have  named,  besides 
being  less  picturesque,  are  less  rare,  and  must  be 
'  attended  to.'  The  anti-game-law  party  in  Scotland 
lately  started  the  cry  that  the  destruction  of  hawks, 
owls  &c.  had  subjected  them  to  a  plague  of  field 
voles  (the  common  little  brown  mouse  so  often  seen 
on  the  hills),  and  that  these  creatures  were  devouring 
their  pastures,  and  impoverishing  their  stock  ;  but  a 
perusal  of  the  evidence  before  the  Royal  Commission 
on  this  subject  will,  I  think,  convince  any  reasonable 
person  that  the  appearance  of  these  animals  in  large 
numbers  in  particular  localities  has  been  of  spasmodic 
recurrence  from  time  immemorial,  and  that  when 
they  appear  hawks  and  owls  usually  appear  also  in 
increased  numbers  to  keep  them  in  check.  They  seem 
to  leave  certain  districts,  or  die  off,  as  erratically  and 
as  rapidly  as  they  appear,  and  the  agitators  failed 
altogether  to  connect  their  appearance  with  the  de- 
struction of  vermin  by  gamekeepers. 

Poaching,  dishonesty,  and  disloyalty,  encouraged 


230  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


as  they  are  by  the  unscrupulousness  of  the  receivers 
of  stolen  and  illegally  killed  game  in  the  large  towns, 
are  after  all  the  things  most  to  be  guarded  against,  and 
I  have  endeavoured  to  indicate  how  I  think  they  may 
best  be  combated.  I  have  before  me  a  working  model 
of  the  nets  used  in  Yorkshire,  with  poles,  clips  &c. 
complete,  as  well  as  a  fair  selection  of  specimens  of 
snares  ;  but  I  think  that  the  accurate  description  of 
how  all  such  engines  should  be  used  is  against  the 
interests  of  sport,  and  may  serve  only  to  encourage 
poaching  by  diffusing  the  science  of  how  to  do  it. 
Wherever  there  is  good  moorland,  well  watered  and 
with  plenty  of  sheltered  places,  there  ought  to  be  a 
good  stock  of  grouse.  Laziness  is  much  more 
common  among  hill  keepers  than  where  population 
is  more  dense,  while  the  climate  of  Scotch  glens, 
especially  on  the  west  coast,  tends  to  enervate  men. 
The  great  antidote  for  this  is  to  be  constantly  on  the 
high  ground  in  the  fresher  air,  as  you  will  discover  for 
yourself  during  a  long  stay  in  Scotland.  Your  head 
man  should,  therefore,  see  that  his  assistants  are  con- 
stantly on  the  moor  looking  after  the  welfare  of  the 
birds  ;  instead  of  giving  way,  as  they  often  do,  to  the 
temptation  of  merely  gazing  at  it  from  below  all  day, 
and  leaving  it  to  take  care  of  itself  all  night. 

The  great  and  mysterious  plague  known  as  the 


GROUND,   STOCK,   AND  POACHING         231 

grouse  disease  is  the  most  powerful  enemy  to  be 
fought  against.  I  cannot  agree  that  it  is  due  to 
overcrowding — and  here  again  I  turn  to  the  Mackin- 
tosh and  Mr.  Rimington  Wilson  for  corroboration. 
Mr.  Wilson  writes  me  :  '  Since  about  1870  there  has 
been  no  disease  on  these  moors  sufficiently  severe  to 
prevent  shooting  ;  previous  to  this  date  disease  seems 
to  have  recurred  severely  and  regularly  about  every 
seven  years.  There  is  no  doubt  that  driving  has  pro- 
duced this  healthier  state  of  affairs.'  The  Mackintosh 
writes  :  '  On  the  Moy  Hall  moor  there  has  been 
practically  no  disease  since  1873.  Driving  was  first 
resorted  to  in  1869,  and  only  then  when  birds  were 
too  wild  to  sit  to  dogs  ; '  but  he  adds  that  it  was  not 
seriously  taken  up  until  1872. 

In  considering  these  two  statements  we  must  bear 
in  mind  that  the  former  is  an  undoubted  authority  on 
Yorkshire  driving  of  over  twenty  years'  standing,  on 
whose  moors  all  the  English  records  have  been 
eclipsed  ;  and  that  the  latter  is  the  most  successful 
exponent  of  the  adoption  of  the  system  in  Scotland, 
and  holds  the  record  for  the  latter  country.  I  might 
add  that  to  my  certain  knowledge,  where  good 
management  prevails,  many  other  moors  have  yielded 
a  fair  proportion  of  birds  even  in  the  years  when 
disease  has  been  reported  severe  and  prevalent  over 


232  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


both  Scotland  and  England.  What  are  we  to  think  of 
those  moors,  which  have  been  let  to  a  variety  of 
tenants  for  twenty  years,  and  where  nothing  but  the 
old-fashioned  system  of  exclusive  'dogging'  in  the 
early  part  of  the  season  has  ever  been  practised,  which 
are  almost  annually  reported  as  having  suffered 
severely  from  disease,  and  have  produced  gradually 
declining  results  ?  Is  it  too  much  to  agree  with  autho- 
rities such  as  I  have  quoted,  and  to  come  to  the  con- 
clusion that  other  causes  besides  disease  have  been  at 
work  on  these  unfortunate  moors  ?  I  think  not ;  and 
it  will  take  a  great  deal  to  convince  me  that  good 
grouse  ground  can  deteriorate  to  this  extent  for  no 
visible  cause  except  the  eternal  cry  of  '  disease.'  The 
birds  on  ill-preserved  ground  are  never  good  spe- 
cimens of  the  race.  A  deer-forest  grouse  is  not, 
as  a  rule,  to  be  compared,  for  weight,  plumage, 
or  flavour  to  one  from  Studley  or  Wemmergill.  If 
the  Scotch  keeper  on  such  ground  does  not  learn  by 
more  direct  channels,  he  will  eventually  discover  by 
the  depreciated  value  of  the  moor  which  he  manages 
that  he  or  his  predecessors  have  killed  the  grouse  with 
the  golden  eggs.  A  pound  a  brace  or  even  more  has 
been,  and  is  still,  paid  by  the  unwary  who  rent  certain 
Scotch  shootings  ;  but  a  Yorkshire  moor  which  yields 
3,000  brace,  though  very  scarce  in  the  market,  will 


GROUND,   STOCK,    AND  POACHING         233 


not  fetch  3,ooo/.  for  the  season.  Those  who  take  the 
average  shooting,  and  wish  for  a  moderate  amount  of 
sport  at  a  moderate  expense,  should  look  more  closely 
than  they  do  into  the  records  of  the  moor,  should 
submit  to  no  clauses  in  their  lease  which  oblige  them 
to  keep  on  any  particular  keeper  or  nominee  of  the 
landlord,  and  should  study  more  closely  the  methods 
which  have  been  adopted  on  the  moors  where  a  really 
successful  result  is  shown. 

The  exact  nature  of  the  grouse  disease  is  very 
difficult  to  determine.  Lord  Walsingham,  some  years 
since,  offered  a  considerable  money  prize  for  the  best 
essay  on  the  subject ;  but  the  result  was  unsatisfactory, 
and  no  one,  if  I  recollect  rightly,  offered  a  solution 
worthy  to  receive  the  reward.  Dr.  Cobbold's  pam- 
phlet still  remains  as  the  only  scientific  effort  offering 
a  tangible  solution  of  the  question.  He  ascribes  it 
all  to  the  Strongylus  pergracilis^  a  little  thread-like 
worm  which  breeds  in  the  throat,  and  eventually  in 
thousands  in  all  the  organs  of  the  bird.  It  is  further 
alleged  that  ponies  and  sheep  had  died  on  the  moors 
during  years  when  disease  was  prevalent  from  the 
attacks  of  the  same  parasite.  But  not  even  Dr.  Cob- 
bold  can  tell  us  whence  or  how  the  Strongylus  per- 
gracilis  is  produced,  or  whether  it  is  the  cause  or 
effect  of  weakness  in  the  larger  body.  I  remember, 


234  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


in  1874  or  thereabouts,  on  the  late  Sir  Charles 
Forbes's  moors  at  Dalradample,  in  Aberdeenshire, 
we  were  all  taking  refuge  on  a  wet  stormy  day  in  one 
of  the  butts  for  luncheon.  I  sat  on  a  seat  in  the 
corner,  made  of  sods  cut  from  the  moor,  and  when  I 
rose,  found  on  my  mackintosh  and  on  the  sod  under 
me  a  quantity  of  small  thread-like  worms,  answering 
exactly  to  Dr.  Cobbold's  description  of  the  Strongylus. 
On  examination,  I  found  many  others  under  where 
others  of  the  party  were  lying  or  sitting,  as  though 
the  warmth  of  their  bodies  had  drawn  these  creatures 
to  the  surface.  The  particular  growth  they  were  in 
was  not  heather,  but  the  coarse  grass,  reddish  at  the 
tips,  so  common  on  the  moors  and  rough  hill  pas- 
tures. I  put  several  of  them  carefully  into  a  bottle 
with  bits  of  the  grass,  intending  to  send  them  to 
Lord  Walsingham,  as  one  of  our  first  entomologists, 
for  examination  ;  but,  alas  !  by  next  morning  they 
were  all  dried  up  and  almost  invisible — dead,  and 
shrivelled  to  nothing. 

This  seemed  to  show  that  they  were  produced, 
supposing  them  to  be  identical  with  Cobbold's  para- 
site, on  certain  ground,  and  prevalent,  like  the  field 
voles,  at  spasmodic  intervals.  I  was  much  disappointed 
at  my  failure  to  get  a  scientific  opinion,  but  commend 
this  experience  to  those  who  would  pursue  the  subject 


GROUND,   STOCK,   AND   POACHING         235 


seriously.  I  should  add  that  the  ground  was  very 
damp,  and  that  the  weather  had  been  very  wet  for 
some  weeks  previously. 

I  believe  that  no  remedy  has  ever  been  hit  on 
or  tried  with  any  satisfactory  result.  Rock  salt  has 
been  suggested  ;  but  this  does  not  appear  to  commend 
itself  to  the  grouse.  I  have  always  thought  that  if  it 
were  practicable  and  not  too  expensive  the  heather 
might,  as  an  experiment,  be  sown  with  salt,  in  case  the 
parasite  is  really  generated  first  upon  the  ground.  I 
am  sure  that  very  little  would  suffice  to  kill  worms  such 
as  I  found  on  the  occasion  mentioned,  and  it  might ' 
prove  beneficial  as  against  tapeworms  in  their  young  or 
embryo  condition.  So  far  as  we  know  at  present,  we 
can  only  fight  against  the  disease,  or  ward  it  off,  by  the 
common-sense  practice  of  regular  heather  burning,  and 
maintaining  a  vigorous  race  of  birds  by  the  methods 
and  management  I  have  mentioned  above,  aided  by 
such  suggestions  as  those  who  have  long  and  practical 
experience  of  moois  and  moor-game  can  furnish  in 
addition. 

I  have  alluded  above  to  accidental  fires.  These 
may  do  no  harm,  possibly  some  eventual  good,  when 
the  ground  is  somewhat  damp  and  the  weather  broken, 
as  in  spring  ;  but  in  very  hot  dry  weather  in  the 
summer  they  may  prove  very  serious.  At  such  times 


236  SHOOTING   THE   GROUSE 


take  every  precaution  against  casual  fires  being  lighted, 
and  request  your  guests  to  be  careful  with  matches, 
and  also  to  watch  that  sparks  from  the  gun  do  not 
start  a  conflagration.  I  set  my  butt  on  fire  three 
times  in  one  day  at  Studley,  and  only  extinguished  it 
with  considerable  difficulty. 

On  these  very  moors,  in  1872,  the  most  disastrous 
moorland  fire  ever  known  took  place.  The  fire  de- 
stroyed 1,300  acres  of  the  best  of  the  ground,  going 
eight  or  ten  feet  deep  into  the  peat,  and  the  smoke  of 
it  was  perceptible  for  thirty  or  forty  miles.  I  have 
not  been  on  this  ground  lately,  but  can  vouch  for  the 
fact  that,  ten  years  after  the  fire,  the  vast  expanse  of 
the  '  burnt  ground '  on  Studley  moor  remained  black 
and  barren,  a  warning  of  what  the  careless  lighting  of 
a  match  may  do  in  hot  weather. 


237 


CHAPTER   VI 

'  THE    FRINGE   OF   THE   MOOR ' 

MR.  JOHN  GUILLE  MILLAIS  has  in  his  delightful 
book,  '  Game  Birds  and  Shooting  Sketches,'  given  a 
description  of  bird  and  animal  life  in  the  early  morn- 
ing on  the  lower  edges  of  the  moorland,  and  this, 
with  many  other  passages  in  the  work,  I  commend  to 
those  who  love  the  poetry  of  nature.  A  son  of  the 
great  painter  whose  tender  and  masterly  touch  alone 
seems  able  to  grasp  the  realities  and  idealities,  the 
romances  or  complexities,  which  go  to  make  up  the  life 
of  this  age,  he  develops,  as  one  of  the  first  naturalists 
of  to-day,  a  convincing  admiration  for  nature  and  a 
brilliant  power  of  drawing  birds — inheritances  of  his 
father's  talents. 

From  Sir  John,  my  earliest  master  in  outdoor 
painting,1  I  am  not  ashamed  to  have  stolen  the  title 
of  this  chapter,  in  order  to  describe  the  picturesque 

1  I  believe  I  may  claim  the  honour  of  being  the  only  pupil 
Sir  J.  Millais  ever  had— alas  !  for  too  short  a  time. 


238  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


and  varied  ground  which,  lying  next  to  or  forming 
part  of  the  moorland  proper,  leads  you  by  the  plea- 
santest  of  transitions  to  the  cultivated  land.  This  is 
the  Bohemia  of  shooting — the  tract  where  we  have 
all  spent  some  of  the  pleasantest  of  our  days  in  cir- 
cumventing its  distinctive  denizens,  or  in  making  a 
mixed  bag  without  the  aid  of  the  organisation  of  a 
regular  shooting  party.  Here  sits  the  capercailzie 
and  lurks  the  roe ;  here  abides  the  blackcock  and 
crouches  the  hare ;  here  stalks  the  pheasant  and 
sleeps  the  woodcock  ;  while  from  above  and  below 
the  grouse  and  the  partridge  meet  on  the  heathery 
slopes  and  rushy  bottoms  of  this  debatable  land,  the 
fringe  of  the  moor. 

Driving  the  woods  for  black-game  and  anything 
else  that  may  be  in  them  provides  the  pleasantest  of 
shooting  days,  liberally  tinged  with  the  element  of 
surprise,  which  is  as  essentially  an  integral  part  of 
sport  as  it  is  admitted  to  be  of  wit.  I  quite  agree 
with  the  late  Mr.  Bromley-Davenport,  than  whom  no 
better  sportsman  ever  rode,  shot,  or  fished,  that  it  is 
hateful  to  know  exactly  how  much  game  there  is  in  a 
covert,  how  many  birds  in  a  turnip  field.  All  interest 
is  gone  the  moment  the  element  of  uncertainty  or 
surprise  is  removed.  The  great  charm  of  the  moor 
edge  is  its  variety.  The  long  .plantation  of  larch  or 


THE  FRINGE   OF   THE  MOOR'  239 


fir,  standing  ankle-deep  in  yellow  grass  or  breast-high 
in  bracken,  breaks  imperceptibly  into  a  bed  of  heather, 
dotted  with  young  trees,  which  in  turn  gives  way  to 
swampy  hollows  or  rushy  wastes,  not  infrequently 
bordering  a  field  or  two  of  stubble  or  turnips  before 
the  wood  or  moor  begins  again.  Small  coverts,  great 
open  brakes  of  fern,  and  deep  ravines  where  the 
heather  can  scarce  cling  to  the  steep  sides  between 
the  rocks,  succeed  each  other  in  delightful  confusion, 
the  whole  forming  an  agglomeration  of  various  sorts 
of  covert,  which  used  to  be  called  by  the  old  keeper 
at  Drumlanrig '  by  the  expressive  term  of  '  what- 
nots.' 

Many  charming  days  have  I  enjoyed  in  years 
gone  by  among  those  '  what-nots,'  where  sometimes 
twelve  or  thirteen  varieties  of  game,  from  the  fallow 
deer  to  the  jack-snipe,  were  killed  in  one  day,  and 
great  were  the  numbers  of  the  black-game.  The  two 
distinct  kinds  of  black-game  driving  are  determined 
by  the  nature  of  the  ground.  In  the  one  your  com- 
pany of  well-organised  drivers  sweeps  a  succession  of 
so-called  pastures,  though  the  herbage  on  Jhem  is 
not  of  the  best,  differing  but  little,  except  for  the 

1  Dnimlanrig  Castle  in  Dumfriesshire,  the  principal  seat  of 
the  Duke  of  Buccleuch,  which  stands  on  an  estate  of  175,000 
acres. 


240  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 

frequently  intersecting  stone  walls  and  marked  in- 
closures,  from  the  moor  itself.  In  the  other,  some- 
times with  an  imposing  but  casual  array  of  beaters, 
suggesting  somewhat  the  levies  of  a  pretender  or 
an  outlaw,  but  more  often  with  the  unaided  skill 
of  a  half-dozen  of  keepers  and  gillies,  the  woods  are 
ranged  towards  you  as  you  stand  in  carefully  selected 
spots,  'passes'  where  the  blackcocks  are  sure  to 
cross,  and  where  you  are  equally  on  the  look-out  for 
a  woodcock  or  a  roebuck. 

The  former  style  of  black-game  driving  has  been 
undoubtedly  carried  to  the  greatest  perfection,  and 
with  the  best  results,  on  the  Duke  of  Buccleuch's 
Dumfriesshire  estates.  Here,  at  Sanquhar  or  Wan- 
lock  Head,  lie  the  great  stretches  of  rough  pasture — 
part  grass,  part  rushes,  part  heather — which  favour  a 
great  stock  of  these  birds,  and  which,  lying  between 
the  oat  stubbles  and  the  luxuriant  heather,  afford 
them  the  variety  of  food  that  this  specie  seem  in 
particular  to  affect.  Here,  ensconced  behind  a  high 
wall,  after,  perhaps,  removing  the  topmost  course 
of  stones  to  clear  your  view  in  front,  having  reached 
your  places  in  strictly  enforced  silence,  and  weighed 
the  consequences  of  any  mistake,  such  as  killing  a 
greyhen,,  or  showing  yourself  unduly,  which  may  ex- 
pose you  to  a  fire  of  time-honoured  chaff,  you  may 


'THE  FRINGE   OF   THE  MOOR*  241 

see  a  pack  of  a  hundred  or  more  blackcocks  coming 
straight  at  your  face,  and  on  about  the  same  level— 
a  sight  never  to  be  forgotten,  and  one  that  makes 
your  heart  beat  faster  and  your  hand  tremble  lest  you 
bring  ridicule  upon  yourself  by  missing  these  great 
ponderous  objects  as  they  come  by  you  so  close  that 
you  could  almost  touch  them.  The  missing  is  easier 
than  you  would  think,  and  we  all  know  who  have 
tried  it  how  simple  it  is  to  shoot  behind  a  black- 
cock, looking  as  big  as  a  turkey,  and  seeming  to 
be  going  very  slow,  within  fifteen  or  twenty  yards. 
Nothing  will  avail  you  but  absolute  confidence  in 
your  own  shooting  powers  and  a  complete  disregard 
of  the  disturbing  personality  of  the  quarry.  You 
must  shoot  as  at  a  driven  partridge,  if  anything  a 
shade  more  forward,  and  with  more  rather  than  less 
accuracy.  With  these  precautions  you  will  strike  the 
bird  in  the  head  and  neck,  and  he  will  collapse  as 
easily  as  the  aforesaid  partridge.  Without  them,  or 
if  you  should  vainly  try  to  kill  two  or  three  at  a  shot, 
you  will  inevitably  miss  altogether,  or  see  your  bird 
flinch  and  disappear,  as  you  think,  '  cut  to  ribbons.' 
This  means  that  he  will  fly  half  a  mile,  rise  again 
about  fifty  yards  in  front  of  your  dog,  and  gaily  fly 
on,  never  to  be  seen  again  ;  or  wheel  round  and  re- 
turn contemptuously  over  your  head,  at  the  height 

R 


242  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


of  the  cross  on  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,  to  the  ground 
whence  he  was  first  disturbed. 

Black-game  have  wonderful  turning  power,  and  it 
is  a  sight  to  see  them,  when  they  are  driven  down  a 
heavy  wind  and  suspect  or  are  sure  of  danger  in  front, 
wheel  deliberately  round  and  go  up  wind  over  the 
drivers  in  the  teeth  of  half  a  gale.  For  this  reason  it  is 
necessary  to  observe  silence  as  you  move  to  your  post 
and  after  you  have  reached  it ;  even  smoking  being 
in  some  places  prohibited.  The  great  thing  is  to  get 
.the  main  body,  the  large  pack  or  packs  over  the  guns, 
scatter  them  to  a  certain  extent,  and  at  any  rate  utilise 
them  for  the  next  drive. 

To  insure  this  you  must  also  be  careful  not  to 
show  yourself,  bearing  in  mind  that  they  are  quite 
capable  of  turning  completely  round  and  going  back 
when  within  a  few  yards  of  you,  and  that  when  they 
have  accomplished  this  you  have  done  with  that 
particular  lot  for  the  day. 

The  first  bird  or  two  that  comes  by  you  should 
spare  ;  they  will  probably  be  greyhens,  flushed  by  the 
drivers  at  the  start  ;  but  do  not  despise  this  warning, 
as  should  they  come  against  a  bright  sky,  or  should  you 
be  unduly  keen,  you  may  find  that  you  have  incurred 
the  penalty  of  error.  I  suppose  that  no  one  who 
has  shot  black-game  has  not  made  this  mistake 


THE  FRINGE   OF   THE  MOOR'  243 


more  than  once  ;  therefore,  I  advise  you,  always  let 
the  first  bird  or  two  pass  you  before  firing,  as  after 
they  get  level  with  you  it  is  easy  to  distinguish  the 
cock  from  the  hen.  Should  you  know  that  there  is  a 
large  lot  of  cocks  between  the  guns  and  the  drivers, 
the  first  odd  birds,  whether  cocks  or  hens,  should 
always  be  allowed  to  pass  without  a  shot  being  fired,  so 
that  the  main  body  may  come  on  without  suspicion  of 
danger. 

This  applies  when  driving  woods,  but  is  seldom 
likely  to  be  rigorously  followed,  as  you  will  then  be 
probably  anxious  to  secure  the  mixed  bag  which 
the  coverts  afford.  But  in  driving  on  the  open  moor 
or  pastures  it  is  absolutely  essential,  if  you  are  going 
for  a  bag  of  blackcocks  exclusively,  to  follow  these 
tactics. 

In  grouse  driving,  especially  on  broken  ground,  I 
am  in  favour  of  the  beaters  making  some  noise,  for 
birds  seated  in  hollows  or  anywhere  out  of  sight  of  the 
flags,  having  heard  the  guns  ahead  and  not  being  con- 
scious of  the  presence  of  the  drivers,  may  rise  and 
turn  back.  But  for  black-game  driving  I  recommend 
absolute  silence,  as  if  too  much  scared  they  will 
get  high  up  and  leave  the  ground  you  are  working, 
often  crossing  a  broad  deep  valley  and  alighting  on 
a  far-off  hill,  clean  off  your  day's  ground.  For  black - 

R  2 


244  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


game  driving  no  flags  are  necessary,  or  at  the  most 
one  or  two  for  men  posted  on  the  flank  to  prevent  the 
birds  taking  some  particular  line  away  from  the  drive. 

Driving  them  from  the  woods  is  almost  entirely  a 
question  of  judicious  placing  of  the  guns  ;  the  keeper 
should  know  the  points  or  '  passes '  where  they 
almost  invariably  break  from  a  particular  covert,  and 
here  the  guns  should  be  placed  pretty  close  together. 
As  this  conduces  to  talking,  silence  must  again  be 
urged  in  waiting  for  these  birds,  the  fact  that  they 
drive  best  up  wind  furnishing  an  additional  reason  for 
the  exercise  of  caution  and  self-control. 

Walking  the  woods  and  broken  ground  in  line  in 
late  September  or  early  October  is  a  very  pretty  form 
of  sport,  though  the  line  is  very  difficult  to  keep  in 
proper  formation.  Here  you  get  very  unexpected  and 
difficult  shots,  a  blackcock  rising  with  a  great  rattle 
out  of  a  little  ravine  being  a  customer  whom  it  requires 
some  skill  to  stop.  At  this  time  of  year  the  cocks  are 
found  singly,  scattered  about  the  woods,  seeking  the 
various  berries  and  grasses  which  they  like  as  a  change 
from  heather,  and  some  of  them  will  lie  very  close. 
But  they  are  then  mostly  young  cocks  ;  so  that  for  the 
good  of  your  breeding  stock  it  is  better  not  to  pursue 
them  too  closely  in  this  fashion.  The  same  remark 
applies  even  more  strongly  to  attacking  the  young 


'THE  FRINGE   OF   THE   MOOR^  245 

broods  during  the  last  days  of  August.  At  this  time  the 
cockney  sportsman,  having  noted  in  the  almanac  that  on 
August  20  '  Black-game  shooting  begins,'  sallies  forth, 
and  decimates  the  immature  pullets,  none  of  which 
will  fly  far,  while  nearly  all  could  be  caught  by  the 
hand  in  the  thick  heather  after  the  dog  has  ascertained 
their  whereabouts.  The  old  cock  he  probably  never 
sees,  or  if  he  does  he  misses  him,  and  the  old  hen 
most  likely  escapes  also.  Having  done  as  much 
harm  as  it  is  possible  to  do  in  the  day,  he  will  return 
and  indite  an  account  of  his  prowess  to  the  '  Field  ; ' 
quaintly  remarking  that  he  '  had  18^  brace  of  black- 
game  '  on  the  2oth.  Since  he  clearly  need  not  have 
shot  the  majority  of  them,  and  should  be  ashamed  of 
himself  if  he  did,  the  fact  that  he  possessed  them  is 
perhaps  all  that  need  be  recorded.  But  it  may  be 
added  that  a  young  blackcock  whom  you  happen  upon 
'  in  the  way  of  business '  is,  if  you  let  him  get  far 
enough  before  putting  shot  into  him,  one  of  the  most 
delicious  of  all  birds  for  the  table. 

Stalking  black-game,  whether  on  the  stocks  of  corn, 
or  later  on  the  open  moor  and  pastures,  is  a  very 
agreeable  art,  and  one  which  will  try  your  skill  and 
sportsmanlike  qualities  to  the  utmost.  Foul  weather, 
when  it  is  hardly  fit  to  be  out,  is  the  best  for  this. 
You  will  then  find  the  old  cocks,  which  should  always 


246  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


be  the  object  of  your  pursuit,  sitting  on  walls  or 
mounds,  and  other  bare  dry  places.  The  wind  must 
be  very  carefully  considered,  and  the  stalk  conducted 
with  as  much  care  as  if  you  were  after  deer.  If  you 
alarm  other  birds  or  beasts,  the  blackcocks,  like  deer, 
will  take  alarm  also,  and  though  their  sense  of  smell 
is  not  so  keen  as,  their  eyesight  is  undoubtedly  superior 
to,  that  of  the  nobler  animal.  It  is  often  a  good  plan 
to  employ  your  man,  always  granted  that  you  can 
trust  his  discretion,  to  move  about  at  a  distance,  and 
in  a  different  direction,  so  as  to  distract  their  wary 
eyes  while  you  creep  upon  them.  As  chances  are 
few  at  this  sport,  and  it  is  important  to  kill  these  old 
stagers,  who  live  to  an  immense  age,  long  after  they 
have  become  utterly  useless  for  stud  purposes,  I 
would  advise  you  never  to  spare  a  sitting  shot. 

Of  capercailzie  shooting  there  is  not  much  to  be 
said.  It  is  no  doubt  a  beautiful  sight  to  see  these 
magnificent  birds  sailing  past  you  as  you  stand  in  a 
clearing  of  the  wood,  and  a  very  satisfactory  thing  to 
bring  them  down  stone  dead,  as  you  can  do  if  you  hit 
them  well  forward.  But  as  their  flight  is  not  long, 
the  drives  are  not  exciting,  and  beautiful  as  the  bird 
may  be  he  is  not  fit  to  eat  in  any  shape  but  soup. 
Whatever  you  may  do,  the  capercailzie  will  leave 
your  ground  or  remain  on  it  as  they  list,  selecting  their 


'THE  FRINGE   OF   THE  MOOR*  247 

favourite  trees  for  residence,  and  being  found  perched 
there  with  monotonous  regularity.  They  do  not  seem 
to  acquire  in  Scotland  (the  only  part  of  the  British 
Islands  where  they  can  be  found)  even  the  wildness 
of  habit  which  makes  the  pursuit  of  them  so  exciting 
in  Germany  and  Austria.  But  as  they — that  is,  the 
cocks  only,  for  a  hen  is  never  shot — are  only  pursued 
in  the  latter  countries  in  the  breeding  season,  and  are, 
in  fact,  slain  in  the  act  of  carolling  forth  the  song  of 
love,  I  confess  to  but  little  sympathy  for  the  sport. 

But  when  you  have  to  deal  with  one  that  is  driven 
to  you,  be  not  deceived  by  his  size  or  the  com- 
paratively slow  beat  of  his  wings.  He  is  going  fully 
as  fast  as  a  blackcock  or  a  grouse,  and  unless  you 
hit  him  in  the  head  you  need  not  trouble  to  fire.  I 
once  missed  five  old  cocks  in  one  drive,  none  of  them 
more  than  thirty-five  yards  off,  from  misjudging  their 
pace,  and  probably  also  in  some  degree  their  distance 
from  me.  All  that  can  be  said  about  them  has  been 
admirably  put  by  Mr.  Millais  in  his  book  '  and  by 
Lord  Charles  Kerr  in  the  Badminton  Library.2 

Last,  but  not  least,  we  must  breathe  the  keen  air 
and  tread  the  summer  snows  of  the  high  tops,  while 
we  attack  the  shy  and  graceful  ptarmigan. 

1  Game  Birds  and  Shooting  Sketches, 
"•  Moor  and  Afarsh,  p.  53. 


248  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


The  glorious  scenery  which  surrounds  the  haunts 
of  these  beautiful  birds  makes  the  pursuit  of  them 
especially  fascinating.  The  splendid  air  and  brilliant 
light,  the  panoramic  view,  the  shifting  cloud  and  mist, 
the  dizzy  height  and  wondrous  silence — these  weird 
surroundings  are  so  fine  that  we  almost  forget  our 
wish  to  slay  the  creatures  that  inhabit  them,  and  pro- 
bably few  men  have  descended  from  the  ptarmigan 
hill  in  the  evening  without  a  pang  of  regret  at 
having  carried  their  predatory  instinct  into  these 
picturesque  solitudes. 

At  first  you  cannot  see  the  birds  against  the  stones, 
so  closely  do  they  resemble  the  pale  grey  rock,  white 
spa,  and  speckled  moss  which  form  their  background  ; 
but  presently  they  move  and  run  before  you,  seeming 
quite  tame,  but  fifteen  yards  away.  In  another  second 
they  are  all  in  the  air  together,  their  white  wings  flash- 
ing in  the  sun,  they  have  doubled  in  a  bunch  along 
the  hill,  and  now,  well  separated  from  one  another,  are 
sailing  away  at  a  terrific  pace,  while  you  sorrowfully 
eject  your  empty  and  profitless  cartridge  cases.  You 
must  advance  upon  them  with  the  gun  held  ready, 
almost  up  to  the  shoulder,  and  as  they  all  turn  toge- 
ther, the  killing  moment,  try  and  knock  over  a  brace 
cleverly,  though  the  second  bird  will  take  you  all  you 
know  to  stop. 


'THE  FRINGE   OF   THE  MOOR*  249 

They  always  rise  all  together  and  close  to  one 
another,  and  many  people,  otherwise  scrupulous 
sportsmen,  will,  as  they  turn,  shoot  into  the  brown,  or 
rather  the '  white,'  of  the  covey.  This  I  think  horribly 
cruel  and  unfair,  specially  so  in  the  case  of  ptarmigan, 
for  a  wounded  bird  who  may  fly  across  a  valley 
which  it  would  take  you  four  hours  of  descent  and 
ascent  to  cross,  is  more  often  than  not  never  retrieved, 
but  left  to  linger  in  a  rift  between  the  rocks,  or  fall  a 
victim  on  the  mossy  slopes  to  the  eagle,  the  raven,  or 
the  fox. 

In  beating  a  round  hill,  it  is  a  good  plan  to 
separate  and  work  round  it  in  two  parties,  when 
you  will  send  some  beautiful  rocketing  shots  from  one 
to  the  other  ;  but  your  guns  must  be  accurate,  careful 
shots,  or  as  you  approach  to  meet  again  you  may 
easily  shoot  one  another.  The  handling  of  the  gun 
altogether  demands  experience  and  closer  attention 
on  ptarmigan  ground  than  on  any  other.  The  footing 
is  often  bad,  and  slips  over  loose  stones  are  frequent, 
while  the  possibility  of  blinding  one  of  the  party  by 
a  ricochet  off  the  rocks  must  always  be  borne  in  mind. 
The  best  way  to  carry  the  gun  on  such  ground,  ivher- 
ever  possible,  is  in  the  right  hand  only,  thrown  back, 
with  the  barrels  resting  on  your  right  shoulder  and  the 
hand  on  the  grip.  Then,  should  you  fall,  your  piece 


250  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

will  fall  forward  as  you  extend  your  arm,  and  should  a 
jar  discharge  it,  will  probably  do  no  harm.  But  when 
there  is  anyone  in  front  of  you,  it  is  obvious  this 
method  of  carrying  the  gun  becomes  the  most  unsafe, 
and  you  must  harden  your  heart  and  be  prepared  to 
lose  here  and  there  a  chance  by  carrying  it  at  half- 
cock  carefully  nursed  over  your  left  arm,  while  you 
are  clinging  to  the  steep  face  or  picking  your  way 
among  loose  stones. 

Ptarmigan  can  be  driven,  .though  to  do  it  to  a 
profitable  extent  there  should  be  a  great  stock  of  them, 
and  an  elaborate  organisation  becomes  necessary.  The 
ground  they  inhabit  is  so  steep  that  the  drivers  must 
usually  be  sent  up  by  a  different  route  from  the  guns, 
and  unless  the  whole  thing  is  very  .carefully  arranged 
the  drive  is  likely  to  fail  of  its  result.  There  are 
usually  only  a  few  broods  on  a  particular  hill,  and  I 
think,  if  you  are  not  too  hard  upon  them  (for  on  certain 
days  it  is  possible  to  kill  almost  every  bird  you  see), 
it  is  a  better  and  pleasanter  way  to  walk  the  ground 
for  them.  Pointers  or  setters  you  will  hardly  require, 
though  here  and  there,  especially  for  finding  a  wounded 
bird,  they  will  be  useful.  But  the  blue  hares,  which 
are  usually  pretty  well  sprinkled  over  the  ptarmigan 
ground,  are  trying  to  your  dogs,  and  you  can  be 
pretty  sure  of  finding  the  birds  without  them. 


THE  FRINGE   OF   THE  MOOR'  251 


Ptarmigan,  like  all  other  birds,  are  much  in- 
fluenced by  the  wind,  and  should  your  march  run 
along  the  top  of  the  hill  it  is  useless  to  go  out  unless 
the  wind  favours  their  lying  on  your  side  ;  otherwise 
every  bird  on  the  hill  will  be  over  the  march,  and 
though  you  may  get  a  splendid  walk,  you  will  make 
but  a  poor  bag  of  either  birds  or  hares. 

Where  possible,  separate  into  two  parties,  so  as  to 
drive  birds  to  one  another,  and  in  this  way  each  party 
is  likely  to  be  of  service  to  the  other  in  retrieving 
wounded  birds.  The  valleys,  which  they  cross  in  a 
few  seconds  and  with  consummate  ease,  are  almost  a 
day's  work  for  men  to  traverse  ;  and  somehow  the 
idea  of  leaving  these  beautiful  birds  to  a  lingering 
death  in  their  own  wild  home  is  peculiarly  repugnant 
to  the  feelings  of  a  good  sportsman. 

To  revert  to  the  lower  ground,  I  think  that 
where  you  have,  in  addition  to  grouse,  a  large  stock 
of  black-game,  the  interests  of  the  farmers  should  be 
borne  in  mind.  There  is  no  doubt  that  when  the 
corn  is  standing  in  stooks  a  large  flock  of  these  birds, 
visiting  the  fields  every  night  and  morning,  will 
destroy  a  large  amount  of  grain.  You  will  find  your- 
self all  the  more  popular  in  the  glen  if  you  visit  them 
on  off  days  when  keen  on  this  food,  and  a  beautiful 
afternoon's  sport  may  be  enjoyed  by  lying  in  wait  for 


252  SHOOTING   THEf+GROUSE 


them  as  they  come  from  the  moor  to  the  corn-land. 
Black-game  if  disturbed  once  or  twice  on  their  feed 
will  be  chary  of  returning  to  the  same  place  for  a 
space  of  time,  and  the  farmer  will  be  found  very 
grateful  to  you  if,  while  enjoying  a  pleasant  variety  of 
sport,  you  show  some  anxiety  to  protect  his  produce 
from  these  voracious  visitors. 

I  regret  to  have  to  record  my  opinion  that  the 
decrease  in  the  numbers  of  black-game  in  Scotland 
is  due  entirely  to  illegal  destruction  of  these  birds. 
They  are  easily  poached,  and  since  the  poulterers 
have  been  suffered  to  expose  them  for  sale  during  the 
spring  and  summer  months  as  '  Norwegian,'  the 
diminution  in  the  general  stock  has  become  very 
marked.  No  one  should  buy  or  eat  black-game  from 
Christmas  until  the  following  August.  Whether  they 
come  from  Norway  or  not,  they  are  not  in  season  ; 
they  must  have  been  destroyed  during  the  period 
when  every  animal  but  the  lowest  vermin  should  be 
let  alone,  and  have  never  been  come  by  in  the  honest 
ways  of  sport. 


253 


CHAPTER  VII 

RECORDS    AND    REMARKS 

ALL  the  British  shooting  world  now  knows  that 
a  man  can  kill  500  brace  of  grouse  to  his  own  gun 
in  one  day — given  the  accuracy,  the  physique,  the 
endurance,  and  the  grouse  necessary — since  the  feat 
has  been  performed  by  an  Englishman  on  his  own 
moor  in  Yorkshire.  We  also  know  that  1,000  brace 
and  upwards  to  a  party  of  well-selected  shots  is  a 
performance  we  may  always  expect  to  hear  of  in 
a  good  grouse  season,  and  that  it  has  been  done 
already  several  times  in  the  same  county.  We 
further  know  that  500  brace  can  be  killed  in  a  day 
in  Scotland,  since  it  was  done  last  year  (1893)  m 
Inverness-shire  ;  and  in  none  of  these  cases  are  we 
sure  that  the  limit  of  possibility  has  been  reached. 

To  defend  large  bags  is  always  a  difficult  task, 
since  they  must  generally  appear  unnatural  and  un- 
sportsmanlike to  persons  who  have  no  experience 
of  well- organised  and  accurate  shooting  on  strictly 


254  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

preserved  ground  ;  and,  be  it  observed,  it  is  only  from 
such  as  these  that  the  attack  ever  comes.  Such 
experience  and  study  as  I  have  been  able  to  bring  to 
bear  on  the  subject  convinces  me  that  the  more 
grouse  there  are  on  the  moors,  the  more  partridges  in 
the  fields,  and  the  more  pheasants  in  the  coverts,  the 
better  for  everybody  in  this  struggling  age.  We  ought 
to  rejoice  in  the  discovery  that  by  good  manage- 
ment the  food-producing  power  of  the  moors,  no  less 
than  their  opportunities  for  healthy  pleasure  and 
exercise,  can  be  increased  to  such  a  pitch.  If  the 
grouse  are  there,  it  is  clear  they  must  be  killed  to  be 
utilised  as  food,  and  surely  no  one  would  advocate  their 
being  destroyed  by  means  of  nets  or  other  engines  in 
the  wholesale  manner  of  the  poacher  or  poulterer.  It 
is  evident  the  results,  cannot  be  obtained  by  the  old- 
fashioned  methods,  since  where  these  have  been 
abandoned  the  stock  has  so  much  increased  that  it 
would  no  longer  be  possible  to  deal  with  the  birds 
except  by  organised  driving. 

I  have  never  been  one  of  those  who  have  cavilled 
at  Lord  Walsingham's  unique  performance.  Records 
must  and  will  continue  to  be  broken  by  Englishmen 
until  the  limit  is  reached,  and  it  seems  to  me  far 
better  that  everyone  should  know  the  extraordi- 
nary value  and  fecundity  of  well-preserved  moors. 


RECORDS  AND  REMARKS  255 


I  append  the  account  of  Lord  Walsingham's  great 
day,  copied  from  his  own  record,  and  signed  by  him 
for  me  at  the  time : 

August  30,  1888.     (First  drive  commenced  at  5.12  a.m.) 

No.  of  birds  No.  of  minutes 

in  each  drive  for  each  drive 

49 33 

64 38 

59 16 

79 18 

7i 24 

58 18 

56 '.         .19 

53 20 

42 20 

61 .16 

16 17 

21 30 

32 25 

91 21 

39 28 

93 21 

52 20 

33 24 

23 21 

3° 20 

Walk  1 

home  J     I4  concluding  at  7-3°  P.M. 


1,036 

From  first  shot  to  last,  14  hours  18  minutes. 
Number  of  cartridges  fired  about  1,550,  including  forty  signal 
shots  not  fired  at  birds. 

Deducting  the  last  fourteen  birds  (killed  walking  home),  and 


256  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


adding  22  +  12 picked  up,  we  have  1,056  killed  in  449  minutes, 
or  2^  per  minute  in  the  actual  time  occupied  in  shooting  in  the 
twenty  drives.  Once  I  killed  three  birds  at  one  shot,  the  only 
three  in  sight  at  the  time,  and  three  times  I  killed  two  at  one 
shot,  each  time  intentionally. 

WALSINGHAM. 

September  20,  1888. 


Although  the  result  has  been  published,  I  do 
not  think  any  previous  work  contains  this  account  of 
the  details.  The  small  pick-up,  34  birds  out  of  a 
total  of  1,056  only  about  3  per  cent,  testifies  to  clean 
killing  and  humane  and  careful  gathering  of  wounded  ; 
while  the  hours  occupied  and  proportion  of  kills  to 
misses  are  sufficient  to  show  that  to  produce  the 
performance  a  man  must  be  a  first-rate  sportsman  and 
athlete. 

Here  is  the  account  of  two  days  at  Mr.  Rimington 
Wilson's,  on  the  Broomhead  moors  near  Sheffield,  last 
year  (1893).  The  first  constitutes  the  record  bag  for 
one  day's  grouse  shooting  : 

f  August  30  2,648  grouse 

Nine  guns  \  „   s      ,J 

I  September  i     .         .         .      1,003      >» 

Remarks.— Six  drives  each  day  ;  the  first  at  10.15  A.M.,  the 
last  at  5  P.M. 

The  second  day's  driving  was  over  the  same  batteries  and 
the  same  ground  as  the  first. 

Both  clays  fine  and  wind  favourable. 

1,910  grouse  picked  up  by  luncheon  on  the  3Oth. 


XECOKDS   AND   REMARKS 


=57 


Mr.  Wilson  also  held  the  record  previous  to  this 
day — viz.  2,626  grouse,  killed  at  Broomhead  on 
September  6,  1872,  by  thirteen  guns,  including  the 
late  Mr.  J.  W.  Rimington  Wilson,  one  of  the  finest 
shots  and  most  accomplished  men  of  his  time,  and  his 
two  sons,  who  took  outside  places  all  day.  The  most 
recent  record,  as  given  above,  to  nine  guns,  is  of  course 
by  far  the  more  remarkable  of  the  two. 

Here,  again,  are  some  of  the  results  of  the  well- 
known  Wemmergill  moor,  kindly  furnished  me  by 
Lord  Westbury,  who  has  rented  it  almost  ever  since 
Sir  Frederick  Milbank  gave  it  up.  He  says  :  '  For 
the  last  seven  years  this  moor,  which  is  under  12,000 
acres,  has  yielded  an  average  of  over  6,000  birds  a 
year  ;  this  period  includes  two  very  bad  seasons — viz. 
1891,  when  only  1,826  birds  were  killed,  and  1892, 
when  there  was  no  shooting' 

This  average  is  50  per  cent  higher  than  that 
of  Sir  Frederick  Milbank  during  his  twelve  years' 
tenancy  of  the  same  moor,  viz.  4,133  birds,  although 
his  period  includes  the  exceptional  total  of  1 7,064  in 
1872  j1  Lord  Westbury's  highest  year  being  9,797  in 
1888.  This^looks  as  though  the  preservation  of  the 
birds  and  the  ground  had  reached  a  more  perfect  and 
even  condition. 

1  Badminton  Library,  Moor  and  Marsh,  p.  37. 

S 


SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


I  append  the  best  day  in  each  season  during  Lord 
Westbury's  tenancy  : 


Year 

Date 

Grouse 

Guns 

1887 

August  23 

1,287 

7 

1888 

,,       23 

1,596 

7 

1889 

,,       2I 

2,053 

8 

1890 

„         20 

1,324 

9 

1891     A  very  bad  year  ;  no  large  bags. 

1892     No  shooting,  owing  to  severe  frost  in  May,  which 

destroyed  most  of  the  eggs. 

1893 

September  6           |         1,807                 8 

On  the  adjoining  moor  of  High  Force  enormous 
totals  have  also  been  reached,  the  record  of  1872, 
during  the  Duke  of  Beaufort's  tenancy,  showing  15,484 
birds  for  nineteen  days'  shooting.  On  this  moor,  as 
the  guest  of  the  late  Mr.  Clare  Vyner,  I  took  part  in 
a  wonderful  week,  averaging  over  1,200  birds  each 
day  for  four  days,  to  only  six  guns.  I  had  the  best 
drive  I  have  ever  seen,  picking  up  115  birds  in  the 
single  drive.  I  had  knocked  down  145,  but  owing  to 
pressure  of  time  and  much  thick  bracken  near  my  butt, 
which  in  the  heat  of  an  August  day  gave  the  dogs  no 
chance,  I  had  to  leave  thirty  birds  on  the  ground, 
most  of  which,  however,  came  into  the  pick-up 
announced  next  day. 

It  is  curious  that  Lord  de  Grey  should  have  also 


RECORDS  AND  REMARKS  259 

had  his  biggest  drive,  128  birds,  later  on  the  same 
day,  especially  since  we  have  both  taken  part  in 
larger  bags  than  the  total  of  that  particular  occa- 
sion. 

Lord  de  Grey,  who  is  admittedly  the  best  game 
shot  of  our  generation,  and  who  has  of  course 
immense  experience,  has  killed  to  his  own  gun  575 
grouse  in  one  day,  shooting  as  one  of  a  party  of  seven 
guns  on  the  Studley  Royal  moors.  Sir  Frederick 
Milbank's  performance  '  exceeds  this  in  numbers,  and 
will  probably,  as  the  performance  of  an  individual 
making  one  of  a  party  of  guns,  never  be  surpassed. 
Lord  de  Grey's  view  is  that,  without  disparagement 
of  any  such  feat  as  this  or  Lord  Walsingham's,  which 
is  only  possible  to  a  first-rate  man,  there  is  a  great 
deal  of  luck  as  to  whether  the  chance  ever  presents 
itself  to  perform  it,  and  that  the  general  shooting 
throughout  a  succession  of  days  under  every  variety  of 
condition  is  the  test  which  the  most  experienced  will 
apply  to  a  man's  form. 

It  is  necessary  to  notice  an  exceptional  per- 
formance, and  to  recognise  it  as  such.  It  is  rarely 
achieved  but  by  the  first-rate  man,  and  does  not  alter 
the  general  conditions  which  govern  the  sport  in 

1  Badminton  Library,  Moor  and  Marsh,  p.  37. 

S  2 


260  SHOOTING    THE    GROUSE 


question.  We  can  all  remember  how  when  Mr.  W. 
G.  Grace  produced  a  series  of  scores  such  as  had 
never  been  dreamt  of  in  the  cricket  field,  people 
began  to  talk  of  altering  the  rules  to  assist  the 
bowlers  ;  of  adding  a  stump,  or  narrowing  the  pro- 
portions of  the  bat,  in  order  to  restore  the  balance  of 
the  game.  But  these  scores,  like  those  named  above, 
now  remain  recorded  as  the  meteors  or  comets  in  the 
celestial  field  of  great  reputations,  of  rare  and  spas- 
modic recurrence,  and  valuable  only  as  a  standard  of 
possibility  to  stimulate  minor  constellations  to  greater 
brilliancy. 

The  first-rate  performer,  as  before  remarked,  is 
good  under  all  circumstances.  I  have  met  those  who 
have  seen  W.  G.  Grace  in  a  rustic  cricket  match,  or 
John  Roberts  on  a  country  house  table,  just  as  I  have 
seen  De  Grey  walking  for  an  ordinary  bag  of  partridges, 
or  pursuing  the  occasional  snipe  or  rabbit.  The  per- 
formance shows  the  same  excellence  under  all  these 
circumstances,  and  the  quality  which  excites  merely 
pleasure  and  admiration  under  the  average  conditions 
should  not  produce  jealousy  or  carping  criticism  when 
reproduced  on  the  rare  opportunity  which  admits  of 
the  execution  of  a  sensational  feat. 

There  is  no  danger  of  the  frequent  recurrence  of 
Lord  Walsingham's  500  brace  in  a  day,  of  Lord  de 


RECORDS  AND  REMARKS  261 


Grey's  240  partridges  in  one  drive,1  of  John  Robert's 
spot-barred  break  of  1,300  odd,  or  of  Dr.  Grace's 
hundreds  in  an  innings.  The  first-rate  form  which 
gradually  builds  up  a  great  reputation  is  sure  on  some 
rare  occasion,  when  all  conditions  are  favourable,  to 
produce  an  exceptional  or  startling  feat ;  but  there  is 
no  reason  on  this  account  to  imagine  that  all  the 
ordinary  rules  of  the  sport  in  question  are  to  be  sub- 
versed  by  this  meteoric  performance,  or  to  deplore  the 
fact  that  the  result  exceeds  what  had  been  foreseen. 
These  isolated  achievements,  properly  considered,  do 
no  harm,  but  on  the  contrary  merely  serve  to  raise 
the  general  standard  of  excellence  in  all  outdoor 
amusements  which  it  has  always  been  the  pride  of  the 
Englishman  to  maintain  before  the  world.  Some 
fifty  years  ago  Colonel  Campbell  of  Monzie  made 
bags  to  his  own  gun  over  dogs  which  have  never  been 
surpassed,  excepting  perhaps  on  one  occasion  by  the 
late  Maharajah  Duleep  Singh.2  I  do  not  think  any 

1  This  is,  no  doubt,  the  record  for  an  individual  perform- 
ance in  a  partridge  drive  ;  the  feat,  which  I  give  on  Lord  de 
Grey's  own  authority,  was  performed  by  him  last  year,  1893, 
at  Baron  de  Hirsch's  in  Hungary. 

*  Colonel  Campbell  killed  in  one  day  in  1843,  184^  brace 
of  grouse  ;  in  1846,  191  brace;  and  on  the  authority  of  '  Hark- 
away  '  is  said  on  another  day  to  have  killed  222|  brace. 
The  Maharajah  Duleep  Singh  in  1872  bagged  220  brace  in 
a  day. 


262  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 

bad  consequences  have  followed  these  rare  feats.  If 
they  have,  as  is  probably  the  case,  stimulated  others  to 
improve  their  shooting  and  the  management  of  their 
moors,  they  have  done  more  good  than  harm,  and 
merely  resulted  in  an  increase  in  the  supply  of  grouse 
available  as  food  or  sport  for  those  who  own  moor- 
land estates. 

As  remarked  before,  the  best  black-game  ground 
is  undoubtedly  to  be  found  on  the  Duke  of  Buc- 
cleuch's  large  estates  in  Dumfriesshire,  while  on  other 
ground  in  the  border  counties,  as  well  as  in  Perth- 
shire and  Aberdeenshire,  they  have  been  killed  in 
considerable  numbers. 

The  Duke  of  Buccleuch  kindly  furnishes  me 
with  the  following  totals  of  the  five  best  years  on  his 
Drumlanrig  Castle  property  : 


1861 1,586 

1865 1,530 


1869 1,508  h  Black -game 

1870 1,486 

1871 1,429' 

These  are  diminishing  totals,  as  will  be  observed, 
and  I  regret  to  say  that  his  Grace  adds  that  the 
numbers  are  still  growing  less,  though  there  is  little 
or  no  poaching  on  his  ground.  But  I  must  recur  to 
the  subject  of  illegally  killed  game,  and  have  no 


RECORDS  AND  REMARKS  263 

hesitation  in  putting  down  the  diminished  numbers 
to  the  account  of  the  poulterers  in  London  and 
elsewhere.  Perhaps  some  one  well  acquainted  with 
Norway  will  tell  us  from  what  part  of  that  country 
the  large  supplies  with  which  it  is  credited  come  to 
our  markets  ! 

Here  is  the  best  bag  ever  made  on  the  Duke's 
ground  : 

SANQUHAR,  DUMFRIESSHIRE 

Grouse  .....  5 
Black-game  ....  247 
Partridges  .  .  .  .  .21 
Pheasant  .....  i 
Hares  .....  40 
Rabbits 2 

Total         .         .         .     316 

the  guns  including  H.R.H.  Prince  Christian,  the  late 
Duke  of  Buccleuch,  and  eight  others.  Of  the  247 
black-game  over  100  brace  were  cocks,  and  I  fancy 
this  constitutes  the  record  bag  of  these  birds. 

In  1874,  at  Newlands  near  Langholm,  another  of 
the  Duke's  estates  on  the  Border,  the  present  Duke 
and  Colonel  Francis  Cust  bagged  98  black-game,  81 
cocks  and  17  greyhens,  in  one  day,  starting  late  and 
having  only  one  gun  each.  The  Duke  informs  me  that 
if  they  had  begun  earlier  and  had  taken  two  guns  each 


264  SHOOTING    THE   GROUSE 


they  could  easily  have  killed  60  brace  or  more.  This, 
especially  considering  the  date,  October  9,  is  the 
best  day  I  ever  heard  of  for  two  guns. 

Of  capercailzie,  probably  no  greater  quantity 
has  ever  been  killed  than  on  the  day  mentioned  by 
Mr.  Millais,  70  in  one  day,  on  the  Dowager  Duchess 
of  Athole's  ground  near  Dunkeld  ;  while  the  35  cocks 
shot  at  Ballinling  by  a  party  of  whom  Mr.  Millais  was 
one,  is  seldom,  if  ever,  likely  to  be  equalled. 

These  birds  having  many  years  ago  become 
extinct  in  this  country,  were,  as  is  well  known,  re- 
introduced  by  the  second  Marquess  of  Breadalbane  at 
Taymouth,  and  have  spread  over  most  of  the  lowland 
counties  of  Scotland.  So  far  as  I  have  seen  they  keep 
very  much  to  themselves,  and  I  should  say  without 
doubt  contrive  to  drive  away  black -game  from  their 
especial  haunts,  though  they  remain  on  fairly  friendly 
terms  with  pheasants,  woodcocks,  and  other  game. 
They  have  never  been  found  yet  on  the  English  side 
of  the  Border,  though  black-game  have  been  killed  in 
nearly  every  county  in  England  and  Wales,  some- 
times within  a  short  distance  of  London  itself.  Mr. 
Millais  mentions  the  curious  instance  of  a  black- 
cock and  a  hansom  cab  coming  within  the  range  of 
his  acute  vision  at  the  same  time  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Aldershot.  There  is  only  one  way  to  '  transplant 


RECORDS  AND   REMARKS  265 

these  birds  into  a  new  country — by  procuring  the  eggs 
and  putting  them  into  pheasant  or  partridge  nests,  the 
former,  of  course,  for  choice.  But  they  go  where  they 
list ;  they  will  not  stay  if  the  country  does  not  suit 
them,  but  will  travel  for  miles  until  they  find  congenial 
cover  and  food,  even  as  they  have  led  me  in  this  little 
work  far  away  from  their  recognised  home  and  com- 
panions, the  heather  and  the  grouse. 


COOKERY  OF  THE  GROUSE 

BY 

GEORGE    SAINTSBURY 


THE  COOKERY  OF  THE  GROUSE 

I  HAVE  always  regretted  (but  never  so  much  as 
since  I  undertook  the  duty  of  these  chapters)  that  I 
did  not  preserve  a  French  book  on  game  and  its 
cookery  which  passed  through  my  hands  some  years 
ago.  The  author  frankly  admitted  that  grouse  do  not 
live  in  France,  though  black-game  of  course  are  found 
there.  But  he  wished  to  be  complete,  and  moreover, 
as  he  very  justly  observed,  some  of  his  French  readers 
might  have  one  or  more  brace  of  grouse  sent  him  by 
an  English  friend,  and  then  what  was  he  to  do  ?  So 
he  gave  with  great  pride  what  he  was  pleased  to  call 
a  receipt  for  '  Grouse  a  la  Dundy.'  Dundy,  I  remem- 
ber, he  defined  as  being  not  only  the  gamiest,  la  plus 
giboyeuse,  city  of  Scotland,  but  also  renowned  for  every 
variety  of  refinement  of  taste  and  luxury — superior  in 
short  to  Peebles  itself.  And  the  way  that  they  cooked 
grouse  in  Dundy  was — but  that  is  exactly  what  I  have 
forgotten.  To  the  best  of  my  memory  it  was  like 


270  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 

most  French  fashions  of  cooking  game — a  sufficiently 
ingenious  method  of  making  the  best  of  any  natural 
flavour  that  the  bird  might  have,  and  imbuing  it  with 
a  good  many  others,  not  at  all  disagreeable,  but  super- 
added  rather  than  evolved  or  assisted,  a  method  useful 
enough  for  old  birds  or  indifferent  birds,  but  improper 
for  others. 

This  process  could  nowhere  be  more  a  counsel  of 
imperfection  than  in  the  case  of  grouse  ;  which,  I  ven- 
ture to  think,  has  of  all  game  birds  the  most  distinct 
and  the  least  surpassable  flavour.  There  are  those, 
of  course,  who  will  put  in  claims  for  others,  and  this 
is  not  the  place  to  fight  the  matter  out.  I  shall  only 
say  that  while  nearly  all  game  birds  are  good,  and 
some  eminently  good,  grouse  seems  to  me  to  be  the 
best,  to  possess  the  fullest  and  at  the  same  time  the 
least  violent  flavour — to  have  the  best  consistency  of 
flesh  and  to  present  the  greatest  variety  of  attractions 
in  different  parts.  It  has  become  almost  an  affectation 
to  speak  of  the  excellence  of  his  back  ;  let  us  rather 
say  that  he  is  all  good — back  and  breast,  legs  and 
wings. 

Black-game,  capercailzie,  and  ptarmigan  are  but 
varieties  of  grouse,  and  almost  everything  that  applies 
to  the  red  grouse  applies  to  them.  Indeed,  the  ex- 
cellent Baron  Brisse  characteristically  includes  both 


COOKERY  OF    THE   GROUSE  271 

black-game  and  capercailzie  in  saying  that  there  are 
two  kinds  of  coq  de  bruyere,  the  one  about  the  size  of 
a  peacock,  the  other  about  the  size  of  a  pheasant. 
All  three  birds,  it  is  scarcely  necessary  to  say,  have, 
owing  to  their  habitat  and  food,  a  much  stronger 
flavour  than  the  red  grouse  ;  and  it  depends  very  much 
on  the  predominance  or  moderation  of  this  flavour 
whether  they  are  intolerable,  tolerable,  or  excellent. 
Moreover,  in  the  case  of  two  of  them  at  least,  English 
estimation  of  them  is  wont  to  be  injuriously  affected 
by  the  importation  of  vast  numbers  of  ptarmigan 
and  capercailzie  from  the  North  of  Europe,  without 
the  slightest  regard  to  their  fitness  for  food.  I  have 
seen  it  stated,  indeed,  that  most  of  the  Norwegian 
capercailzie  which  are  sold  in  English  shops  are 
poached  by  illegal  and  unsportsmanlike  processes, 
at  the  very  time  when  they  are  most  out  of  season. 
Ptarmigan  soup,  however,  is  quite  excellent,  and  I  am 
not  sure  that  even  grouse  at  its  best  can  give  points 
to  a  roast  greyhen  in  good  condition.  But  partly 
because  of  the  strong  nature  of  their  food — whereof 
pine  and  juniper  shoots  and  seeds  are  the  chief  parts — 
and  partly  because  they  are  stronger  flying  birds,  and 
therefore  tougher  than  the  red  grouse,  black-game 
require  even  more  keeping  than  that  '  estimable  vola- 
tile.' The  whole  tribe,  indeed,  will  bear  this  process 


272  COOKER 'Y   OF    THE    GROUSE 


as  no  other  birds  will.  It  was  the  custom  of  a  hospit- 
able friend  of  mine  in  Scotland,  who  was  equally  good 
with  rod  and  gun,  to  keep  a  supply  of  grouse  hanging 
till  he  could  accompany  them  with  salmon  caught  in  a 
river  which  was  by  no  means  a  very  early  opening  one, 
and  I  never  found  birds  taste  better.  The  less  regarded 
members  of  the  grouse  tribe  will,  as  I  have  said,  bear 
much  longer  keeping.  Indeed,  the  best  if  not  the 
only  really  good  capercailzie  that  I  ever  tasted  had 
been  subjected  to  the  indignity  of  being  forgotten. 
He  was  imported  into  the  Channel  Islands  by  an 
enterprising  game  dealer  ;  I  bought  him,  and  as  the 
house  in  which  I  was  living  had  no  good  larder,  I 
asked  the  man  to  keep  him  on  his  own  premises  till 
he  and  we  were  ready.  We  promptly  forgot  all  about 
him,  and  it  was  several  weeks  before  the  shamefaced 
dealer,  who  was  equally  oblivious,  said  one  day,  '  I'm 
afraid,  sir,  that  capercailzie  .  .  .  ! '  Nevertheless  we 
had  him  sent  home.  It  was  necessary  to  amputate 
and  discard  a  considerable  part  of  him,  but  the  rest 
was  altogether  admirable. 

With  all  these  birds,  but  especially  with  ptarmigan, 
dryness  is  the  great  thing  to  be  feared  when  roasting 
them ;  and  this  must  be  guarded  against  by  liberal 
basting,  by  jackets  of  bacon,  and  in  other  well-known 
ways,  especially,  perhaps,  by  the  German  method  of 


COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE  273 

marinading  and  larding  given  below.  Except  in  soup, 
old  birds  of  all  the  three  kinds  are  very  nearly  hopeless, 
and  should  not  be  attempted.  And  though  in  the 
abstract  most,  if  not  all,  of  the  methods  of  what  may 
be  called  applied  grouse-cookery  are  applicable  to 
them,  it  is  well  to  remember  that  the  extremely  strong 
flavour  above  referred  to  marries  itself  but  awkwardly 
to  miscellaneous  additions,  and  is  almost  impossible 
simply  to  disguise  with  them.  Indeed,  it  is  noteworthy 
that  even  French  cookery  books  do  not  as  a  rule 
meddle  much  with  the  coq  de  bruyere,  but  prefer  him 
plain.  Nor  does  any  of  the  tribe  make  a  very  good 
devil.  '  Tickler,'  indeed,  in  the  Nodes  Ambrosiance, 
avoucheth  that  even  eagle's  thigh  is  good  devilled  ;  but 
the  context  does  not  inspire  complete  confidence  in 
the  good  faith  of  the  sage  of  Southside  at  that  moment. 
On  the  whole,  it  may  be  laid  down  that  black-game 
and  capercailzie  (the  latter  when  young  and  in  very 
good  condition)  are  best  roasted,  ptarmigan  stewed  or 
converted  into  soup.  But  I  must  own  that  I  have 
eaten  roast  ptarmigan  which  left  the  room  (at  least 
the  bones  did)  without  a  stain  on  their  character — 
which  were  '  white  birds  '  as  much  metaphorically  as 
literally. 

With  these  preliminary  remarks  and  cautions  as 
to  the  outlying  varieties  we  may  turn  to  the  cooking 

T 


274  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 


of  grouse  proper.  For  very  obvious  reasons  the  anti- 
quarian part  of  the  matter  needs  but  little  attention. 
Until  railway-and-steamboat-time  grouse  were  any- 
thing but  common  in  London  and  exceedingly  un- 
common in  Paris,  and  the  chef  of  literary  tendencies 
was  not  likely  to  trouble  himself  much  about  them. 
Their  rarity  in  the  former  place  is  exemplified  in  the 
well-known  though  doubtless  apocryphal  legend  of  the 
Highland  chieftain  who  ordered  '  grouse  and  salmon  ' 
for  his  domestics  at  a  London  hotel.  And  the  books 
said  very  little  about  them.  For  instance,  a  lady  had 
the  great  kindness  to  examine  for  me  a  country-house 
collection  of  cookery  books,  English,  Scotch,  French, 
and  American,  extending  to  some  score  of  volumes, 
and  all  printed  between  1790  and  1830.  They  yielded 
practically  nothing  but  the  direction  'Roast  moor-game 
half  an  hour  :  serve  with  fried  bread  crumbs,  bread 
sauce,  and  sliced  raw  onions  in  a  little  water  in  the 
same  boat,'  and  the  still  more  general  advice  to  '  dress 
them  like  partridges  and  send  them  up  with  currant 
jelly  and  fried  bread  crumbs.'  It  is  somewhat  interest- 
ing to  notice  that  the  onion  sauce  (or  rather  salad)  here 
suggested  is  neither  more  nor  less  than  a  degraded 
and  barbarous  survival  of  the  onion  puree  which,  as 
was  noted  in  the  volume  on  the  Partridge  in  this  series, 
Gervase  Markham  had  prescribed  for  that  bird  some 


COOKERY  OF  THE   GROUSE  275 


two  centuries  earlier.  As  for  the  currant  jelly  I  think  it 
hardly  survives  now,  but  for  people  who  like  currant 
jelly  with  flesh  or  fowl  it  is  not  bad  with  grouse,  while 
as  usual  cranberry  or  rowan-berry  jelly  is  better  still. 
German  and  American  cooks  also  sometimes  re- 
commend //w/«-sauce.  But  in  connection  with  the 
general  direction  to  '  cook  them  like  partridges '  I  am 
tempted  to  add  two  receipts  for  dressing  that  bird 
which  I  did  not  know  at  the  time  of  writing  on  it,  but 
which  seem  admirably  adapted  to  grouse  also,  and 
which  come  from  the  collection  referred  to  above. 
They  appear  in  La  Cuisine  de  Sante,  an  elaborate 
work  in  three  volumes  written  by  M.  Jourdain  Le 
Cointe,  and  revised  in  the  year  1790  by  a  medical 
practitioner  of  Montpellier.  This  latter  man  of  art,  by 
the  way,  seems  during  that  stirring  time  to  have  been 
as  unpolitically  engaged  as  his  brother  savant  who  was 
indifferent  to  the  Revolution  because  he  had  an  un- 
precedented number  of  irregular  verbs  all  nicely 
conjugated  and  written  out  in  his  desk. 

The  first  of  these  receipts  is  called  a  la  Sultane, 
and  is  described  as  one  of  the  favourite  dishes  of 
Venetian  cookery  ;  the  other,  also  asserted  to  be 
Italian  in  origin,  is  a  la  cendre. 

For  birds  a  la  Sultane  you  take  four,  and  sacrifice 
the  least  promising  of  the  quartette  to  make  a  farce  for 

T  2 


276  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 

the  other  three,  with  the  usual  accompaniment  of 
mushrooms,  anchovies,  &c.  You  then,  having  stuffed 
the  others,  lard  them  not  merely  with  bacon  but 
with  anchovies  and  truffles,  and  roast  them  before  a 
not  too  fierce  fire,  basting  them  till  they  are  two-thirds 
done  with  good  consomme.  '  II  unit  1'agrement  et  la 
salubrite,'  says  of  this  dish  M.  Jourdain  le  Comte  or 
the  Montpellier  doctor,  evidently  leaning  back  in  his 
chair  with  a  sense  of  satisfaction  after  writing  the 
words.  It  would  be  interesting  to  try  this  receipt 
with  grouse,  and  I  think  it  would  answer,  though  I 
should  be  disposed  to  omit  the  anchovies.  The  other 
manner,  a  lacendre,  contains  a  slight  puzzle  to  me.  It 
is  directed  that  the  birds,  jacketed  in  bacon  and  stuffed 
with  the  usualfarce  made  of  one  of  their  number,  shall 
each  be  wrapped  with  extreme  care,  so  that  no  part  is 
uncovered,  in  a  large  sheet  of  white  paper  strewed  with 
sliced  truffles.  Each  packet  being  carefully  tied  up 
with  packthread  is  buried  in  hot  ashes,  turning  it  if 
necessary  till  cooked.  Our  authority  says  that  this 
way  of  cooking  is  very  popular  in  Italy,  but  to  his  think- 
ing dries  the  birds  too  much  and  deprives  them  of  their 
qualite  restaurante.  That,  I  should  say,  would  depend 
on  the  stuffing  and  jacketting.  But  what  sort  of  paper  is 
it  that  will  stand  the  heat  of  ashes  hot  enough  to  cook  a 
partridge  through  ?  Burnt-paper  ash  is  not  the  nicest 


COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE  277 

of  condiments,  and,  moreover,  the  phrase  'sortez-les 
du  papier '  at  the  end  of  the  article  implies  that  the 
wrapping  is  ex  hypothesi  intact.  Perhaps  somebody  who 
has  a  hearth  and  wood-ashes  at  his  or  her  disposal 
will  try  the  method. 

Turning  to  modern  and  straightforward  cookery,  I 
observe  that  some  critics,  while  speaking  very  amiably  of 
my  efforts  in  alien  art  on  the  partridge,  have  been  pleased 
to  speak  compassionately  of  my  preference  of  plain  roast 
bird  as  '  very  English.'  I  hope  that  nothing  worse  will 
ever  be  said  of  any  taste  of  mine;  and  that,  as  accord- 
ing to  a  famous  axiom,  '  it  is  permissible  to  Dorians  to 
speak  Doric,'  so  it  may  be  permissible  to  Englishmen  to 
eat  English  food.  At  any  rate,  though  I  have  just  given 
some  and  shall  hope  to  give  several  other  receipts  for 
more  elaborate  dealing,  I  must  repeat  and  emphasise 
the  same  preference  here.  A  plainly  and  perfectly 
roasted  grouse,  with  the  accompaniments  above  re- 
ferred to  (or  others,  such  as  chipped  or  ribboned 
potatoes),  is  so  good  that  he  can  in  no  other  way  be 
improved,  though  of  course  he  may  be  varied.  Some 
extreme  grouse-eaters  even  declare  that  you  ought  to 
eat  nothing  at  all  but  grouse  at  the  same  meal  ;  and 
though  I  cannot  go  with  them  there,  I  am  thoroughly 
of  the  mind  of  a  certain  wise  and  gracious  hostess  who 
once  said  to  me,  '  I  have  given  you  very  few  things 


278  COOKERY  OF  THE   GROUSE 

for  dinner  to-day  ;  for  there  is  grouse,  and  I   think 
grouse  is  a  dinner.'     Certainly  it  is  rather  wicked  to 
eat  a  mere  snippet  of  it  at  the  end  of  a  dinner  of  soup, 
fish,  half  a  dozen  entrees,  and  very  likely  a  solid  rehvc. 
The  soup  and  the  fish  and  one  entree  ought  to  be 
ample  when  grouse  in  sufficient  quantity  forms  the 
roast.     Also  grouse  forms  a  better  '  solid '  than  any- 
thing else  that  I  know  to  finish  a  fish  dinner  with — 
there  is  some  subtle  and  peculiar  appropriateness  in 
its  specially  earthy  and  dry  savour  as  a  contrast  to  the 
fishinesses.    For  accompanying  vegetables  nothing  can 
equal  French  beans,  which  Nature  supplies  at  the  right 
time  exactly,  and  for  drinking  to  match,  nothing  can 
even  approach  claret,  good,  but  not  too  good.     Not 
'  forty  thousand  college  councils  '  shall  ever  persuade  me 
but  that  it  is  something  of  a  solecism  and  something 
of  a  sin  to  drink  the  very  best  Bordeaux  with  any  solid 
food  whatever.    That  should  be  drunk  with  a  recueille- 
ment  which  is  impossible  to  the  palate  when  it   is 
simultaneously  called  to  deal  with  the  grosser  act  of 
eating.     Let,  therefore,  the  host,   however  fortunate 
and  liberal,  keep  the  First  Three  and  also  his  best 
Leovilles  and  Rauzans,  Moutons  and  Pichon  Longue- 
villes,  for  the  time  when  the   grouse  has   vanished  ; 
but  let  him  accompany  it  while  it  is  being  discussed 
with   anything  up  to  Palmer  or   Lagrange,  or  even 


COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE  279 

such  second  growths  as  Cos  Destournel  or  Durfort. 
Not  that  Burgundy  (again  just  short  of  the  very  best) 
goes  ill  with  grouse,  but  that  claret  goes  better.  Alexis 
Soyer,  who,  though  I  have  heard  good  judges  declare 
him  to  have  been  a  very  overrated  cook,  said  some 
excellent  things,  soon  to  be  quoted,  about  grouse,  re- 
commends a  '  little  sweet  champagne '  with  grouse.  It 
was  spoken  like  a  Frenchman. 

The  accompaniments  of  roast  grouse,  besides  those 
already  mentioned,  are  not  very  numerous.  The  liver 
of  the  birds  cooked  separately,  pounded  and  spread 
upon  the  toast  on  which  they  are  served,  with 
butter,  salt,  and  cayenne,  is  often  recommended. 
Most  people  are  unhappy  without  gravy  ;  for  myself 
I  think  if  the  grouse  is  properly  done,  not  too  much 
and  not  too  dry,  it  is  better  without  any.  The  favourite, 
and  to  the  general  taste  indispensable,  bread  crumbs 
are  often  horribly  ill  cooked,  and  unless  very  well 
cooked  are  the  reverse  of  appetising.  Soyer,  as  above 
reported  by  a  good  Scotch  writer  on  cookery,  who 
calls  herself  '  Jenny  Wren,'  liked  to  eat  grouse,  which 
he  justly  declared  to  vary  inexplicably  in  flavour  from 
year  to  year,  '  absolutely  by  themselves  with  nothing 
but  a  crust  of  bread,'  and  this  shows  a  purity  of  taste 
which  makes  one  almost  forgive  him  his  sweet  cham- 
pagne therewith.  Watercress  is  as  good  with  grouse 


2So  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 


as  with  most  roasted  birds,  and  salad  almost  as  good 
as  with  any  ;  though  perhaps  the  brown-fleshed  birds 
do  not  so  imperatively  call  for  this  adjunct  as  the 
white.  I  seem  to  have  heard  that  there  were  times 
and  places  where  grouse  were  eaten  with  melted 
butter  ;  but  it  is  well  known  that  there  were  times 
and  seasons  when  there  was  hardly  anything  to  which 
Britons  did  not  add  that  unlovely  trimming.  It  must 
be  confessed  that  the  thing  is  still  done  (the  trimming 
being  actually  poured  over  the  birds)  in  Scotland, 
where  they  certainly  understand  cookery,  and  where 
they  ought  to  understand  that  of  grouse  in  particular. 
But  it  seems  to  me  an  abomination,  and  it  must  be 
remembered  that  if  Scottish  cookery,  admirable  as  it 
is,  has  a  tendency  to  sin,  that  tendency  is  in  the 
direction  of  what  is  delicately  called  '  richness,'  and 
that  this  may  be  an  instance.  No  doubt  the  counter 
tendency  of  the  grouse  to  the  other  original  sin  of 
dryness  has  also  to  be  considered. 

There  is  a  good  deal  more  dispute  as  to  the  time, 
or  in  other  words  the  degree,  to  which  grouse  ought  to 
be  roasted  than  in  regard  to  most  other  garni  birds. 
Nobody — not,  I  should  suppose,  even  an  ogre  or  a 
cannibal — likes  underdone  pheasant ;  and  I  never  heard 
of  anybody  who  liked  underdone  partridge.  On  the 
other  hand,  only  very  unfortunately  constituted  persons 


COOKERY  OF    THE    GROUSE  281 


(who  should  not  eat  wild-  or  water-fowl  at  all)  like  wild 
duck  or  widgeon,  or  anything  of  that  kind,  from  solan 
geese  to  plovers,  otherwise  than  distinctly  underdone. 
But  in  regard  to  grouse  it  is  impossible  to  say  that 
there  is  a  distinctly  orthodox  or  a  distinctly  heterodox 
school  in  this  respect.  The  ambiguity  of  general 
opinion  is  shown  by  the  variation  in  time — from  twenty 
minutes  to  half  an  hour — usually  allotted  for  the  roast- 
ing of  an  average-sized  young  bird  (I  have  even 
seen  three-quarters  advised,  but  this  is  utterly  pre- 
posterous). This  amounts  to  the  difference  between 
a  distinct  redness  close  to  the  bone  and  'cooking 
through.'  There  is  even  a  school  who  would  have 
grouse  decidedly  underdone.  I  think  they  are  wrong, 
and  that  there  should  be  nothing  in  the  very  least 
saignant  about  a  grouse  when  he  is  carved,  but  that, 
if  possible,  he  should  be  taken  away  from  the  fire  the 
very  minute  that  the  last  possibility  of  such  a  trace 
has  disappeared. 

The  other  two  simple  ways  of  cooking  grouse  (I 
suppose  men  do  boil  them,  just  as  they  boiled  Lord 
Soulis,  but  I  never  knew  a  case)  are  broiling  and  con- 
version into  soup.  A  broiled  or  '  brandered  '  grouse 
is  quite  admirable,  but  must  of  course  be  quite  young, 
plentifully  buttered  (or  oiled),  and  fairly  peppered. 
When  successfully  done  it  is  like  all  broiled  birds,  one 


282  COOKERY   OF   THE    GROUSE 


of  the  very  best  things  that  it  is  possible  to  eat,  and  can 
be  accompanied  by  an  almost  unlimited  variety  of  sauces 
or  gravies,  from  the  plainest  to  the  most  elaborate. 
The  same  hyperbole  may  be  used  of  grouse  soup  when 
it  is  what  grouse  soup  should  be.  There  are  consider- 
able variations  in  the  methods  of  preparing  it;  and,  as  in 
most  cases,  it  is  necessary  to  look  to  the  end  or  object. 
Philosophically  considered,  the  whole  subject  of  soup 
may  be  divided  into  three  parts.  There  is  soup  more 
or  less  clear,  such  as  is  probably  at  the  present  moment 
chiefly  in  favour  as  being  most  restorative  in  effect  and 
most  elegant  in  consumption.  There  is  a  puree  of 
creamy  texture,  thick,  but  not  containing  any  positive 
solids.  And  lastly  there  is  the  old-fashioned  broth 
with  solids  in  it,  which  is  more  an  olla  or  stew  than 
a  soup  strictly  speaking,  and  which,  though  a  little 
robust  and  massive  for  our  modern  dinners,  is  one  of 
the  most  satisfactory  varieties  of  food  for  reasonably 
hungry  people.  The  first  of  these  forms  is  that  in 
which  grouse  soup  is  least  commonly  presented,  and 
to  which  perhaps  this  bird  lends  itself  least  characteris- 
tically. It  is,  however,  good  in  its  way,  and  I  never 
saw  a  better  receipt  for  it  than  that  which  is  given  by 
Mrs.  Henry  Reeve.  You  take  old,  but  quite  fresh 
birds,  which  may  be  either  grouse  or  black -game,  or 
(I  should  add)  ptarmigan.  You  add  water  at  the  rate 


COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE  283 

of  three  pints  to  the  brace  of  birds,  and  keep  it  sim- 
mering as  slowly  as  possible  for  hours,  adding  pepper- 
corns and  a  little  onion  and  carrot.  Some  time  before 
serving  you  take  the  best  pieces  of  the  breast  out 
(the  birds  of  course  have  been  cut  up  at  first),  press 
them  and  cut  them  up  in  little  bits  to  add  to  the 
strained  soup. 

Puree  of  grouse  is  much  more  in  request  and — for 
those  who  can  consume  thick  soups — much  better. 
The  apparent  variety  of  receipts  for  it  is  great ;  the 
real,  smaller.  All  can  be  reduced,  with  little  difficulty, 
to  a  common  form.  The  birds  are  roasted,  but  not 
so  long  as  if  they  were  going  to  be  simply  eaten — a 
quarter  of  an  hour  is  generally  held  to  be  enough.  All 
or  most  of  the  meat  is  then  removed  from  the  bones, 
which  are  put  into  a  sufficient  quantity  of  ready- 
made  clear  stock  or  consomme,  with  vegetables  and 
seasonings  to  taste.  This  is  allowed  to  simmer  from 
one  to  three  hours,  the  longer  the  better.  Meanwhile, 
the  meat  which  was  taken  off  is  pounded  in  a  mortar 
and  pressed  through  a  sieve,  some  adding  butter  and 
grated  biscuit  or  toasted  bread,  others  ground  rice, 
others  nothing  but  seasoning.  This  paste  is  then 
stirred  into  the  strained  soup  till  it  attains  the  required 
thickness.  Celery  in  moderation  is  an  important  in- 
gredient in  puree  of  grouse,  and  some  send  lemon 


284  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 

with  it  to  table  ;  but  lemon  is  one  of  those  good  things 
which  are  liable  to  abuse  in  cookery,  in  regard  to  meats 
and  fowls.  It  is  more  at  home  with  fish  and  sweets. 

Of  the  ruder  and  more  national  form  (which  is 
also,  I  think,  the  best)  of  grouse  soup,  the  celebrated 
stew  whereof  Meg  Merrilies  made  Dominie  Sampson 
partake  was  probably  a  variety,  though  the  authority 
saith  that  moor-game  were  not  the  only  ingredient  of 
that  soup  or  broth  or  stew.  The  beginning  is  the 
same  as  for  puree,  and  indeed  puree  and  this  sort  of 
soup  melt  into  each  other  by  imperceptible  gradations. 
For  you  may  either  roast  the  birds  as  in  the  former 
case,  cut  off  the  best  of  the  meat,  break  up  and 
slightly  pound  the  rest,  fry  it  with  butter,  some  ham 
and  vegetables,  and  then  stew  it  with  good  stock,  in 
quantity  sufficient  (some  say  a  quart  to  a  bird),  and 
after  straining  put  the  best  pieces  of  meat  in  at  the 
last  moment,  to  warm  up  with  a  glass  of  claret.  Or 
you  may  cut  up  the  birds  into  joints  to  begin  with, 
fry  them  in  butter,  and  then  add  the  stock,  the  vege- 
tables and  the  etceteras,  proceeding  in  ordinary  soup 
fashion  till  the  thing  is  done.  Some  in  this  last  stage 
advocate  the  adding  of  a  young  cabbage  in  pieces, 
with  wine  or  not,  as  liked.  And  as  the  birds  have, 
in  this  case,  no  ordinary  cooking  but  the  slight  fry, 
and  no  pounding  or  other  mollification,  it  is  necessary 


COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE  285 

to  '  simmer  till  tender,'  which  in  the  case  of  an  old 
grouse  or  black-cock  may  be  a  considerable  time. 
For  the  really  hungry  man  this  is,  no  doubt,  the  best 
way  of  all  ;  but  as  a  dinner  dish  it  is  perhaps,  as  has 
been  hinted,  too  solid  for  the  mere  overture  to  which 
we  have  now  reduced  soup.  In  the  days  of  the 
ancestors,  they  ate  it  late  instead  of  early  in  the  order 
of  dishes  ;  and  I  am  not  certain  that  they  were  wrong. 
There  are  few  things  more  engaging  about  grouse 
than  the  excellent  appearance  that  it  makes  in  cold 
cookery,  whether  by  itself,  in  salads,  or  in  pies. 
Chaudfroid  of  grouse  (it  is  quite  useless  for  purists  to 
warn  us  that  the  word  has  nothing  to  do  with  chaud 
and  nothing  with//wV,  that  its  being  chaud  is  an  acci- 
dent, and  that  its  creator  was  one  Chauffroix)  is  excel- 
lent. So  are  grouse  potted  whole  (baked,  with  wine 
and  butter,  and  afterwards  stowed  singly  into  pots  with 
clarified  butter  poured  over),  or  in  joints,  or  in  pounded 
paste.  So  is  the  cold  roast  bird  in  the  severest 
simplicity,  especially  if  he  has  not  been  cut  into  when 
hot.  So  is  grouse  salad,  of  which  a  savoury,  but  rather 
violent,  if  not  even  slightly  vulgar,  variety  assigned  to 
Soyer  is  to  be  found  in  all  the  books  with  more  or 
fewer  changes.  The  general  principle  is  that,  the  joints 
of  not  too  much  roasted  grouse  being  laid  on  a  bed 
of  salad  and  fenced  round  with  garnishings  of  hard- 


286  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 

boiled  egg,  gherkins,  beetroot,  &c.,  a  dressing  of  what 
the  French  would  call  an  unusually  corse  kind  is  poured 
over  and  if  possible  slightly  iced.  In  the  most  aggressive 
prescription  I  have  seen  for  this,  no  less  than  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  chopped  shallots  and  as  much  of  tarragon 
and  chervil  figure.  But  anybody  who  can  make  a 
salad  at  all  can,  of  course,  adjust  the  dressing  to  his 
or  her  fancy,  and  the  garnishing  likewise. 

Grouse  pie  is  of  a  higher  order  than  these,  although 
the  odd  changes  of  fashion  have  banished  it  from  the 
chief  meal  of  the  day  to  breakfast,  luncheon,  and 
supper,  at  neither  of  which  does  anything  better  often 
appear.  I  do  not  know  that  anybody  eats  grouse  pie 
hot,  though  I  can  conceive  no  particular  or  valid 
reason  against  it.  It  may  be  made,  of  course,  in 
all  the  gradations  of  pies — the  homely  old  variety  with 
edible  crust,  the  '  raised  pie,'  whereof  the  crust  is  not 
intended  to  be  eaten,  though  persons  of  unsophisticated 
habits  and  healthy  appetite  may  be  observed  some- 
times to  attempt  the  feat — and  the  pie  in  which  there 
is  no  pretence  of  crust  at  all,  but  which  is  concocted  in 
a  more  or  less  ornamental  case  of  fireproof  china.  (It 
was  this  last,  perhaps,  of  which  the  poet  of  the  Lakes, 
where  there  is  much  moor-game,  wrote  '  celestial  with 
terrine '  though  his  foolish  printers  usually  spell  it 
'terrene.')  And  so  the  complexity  of  the  materials 


COOKERY  OF    THE   GROUSE  287 


and  methods  observes  similar  gradations,  which  by 
connection  or  accident  very  often  adjust  themselves 
to  the  three  varieties  of  casing  just  mentioned.  The 
simplest  form  of  grouse  pie  merely  requires  the  birds 
(jointed,  halved,  or  sometimes  whole),  a  proportion 
(a  pound  to  a  brace  is  usual)  of  rump  steak  cut  into 
knobs,  seasoning,  crust,  and  a  sufficiency  of  good  gravy 
(which  may  or  may  not  be  touched  up  with  lemon 
juice  and  claret)  to  fill  up  and  moisten  the  mixture. 
To  this,  of  course,  the  usual  enrichments  of  hard  eggs 
(whether  of  the  domestic  fowl  or,  as  the  youthful  heir 
of  Glenroy  in  Destiny  suggests,  plovers'  eggs),  mush- 
rooms, truffles,  forcemeat  balls,  and  so  forth,  may  be 
added.  These  additions  may  further  be  said  to  be 
customary  in  the  raised  grouse  pie,  and  invariable  in 
that  which  is  made  in  a  terrine.  These  latter  forms 
merge  themselves  very  much  in  the  general  'game 
pie,'  an  excellent  thing  in  its  way  no  doubt.  But  I 
do  not  know  that  it  is  so  good  as  the  simple  grouse 
pie  with  nothing  added  but  steak,  seasoning,  an 
alliaceous  touch  of  some  sort,  and  a  few  eggs  and 
mushrooms. 

And  so  we  come  at  last  to  the  more  elaborate 
varieties  of  cooking  this  noble  animal.  In  that  utter- 
ance of  Soyer's  above  quoted  he  is  made  to  confess 
that  'his  art  cannot  improve  grouse,'  that  in  good 


288  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 


years  the  flavour  is  such  as  to  baffle  more  ornamental 
treatment,  while  in  others  there  is  nothing  particular 
to  be  done  with  the  fowl.  Nevertheless,  people  will 
do  things  with  it ;  and  some  of  the  things  they  do 
must  be  told  with  the  general  caution,  or  at  least 
opinion,  that  they  are  vanity.  In  the  first  place  there 
is  a  way  of  pressing  grouse  which,  since  the  initial 
process  is  to  boil  or  stew  the  bird  to  rags,  must  be 
specially  applicable,  and  should  be  chiefly  or  only 
applied,  to  the  very  oldest  specimens.  Having  inflicted 
this  fiery  and  watery  torment  on  them  you  pull  the 
meat  oft"  the  bones,  season  it  pretty  freely,  and  clothe 
it  with  jelly  (either  with  ordinary  aspic  or  by  fortifying 
the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled  with  gelatine),  adding 
eggs,  truffles,  and  anything  else  you  please  before 
letting  it  get  solid  in  a  mould  or  dish.  It  stands  to 
reason  that  this  is  only  a  way — though  not  at  all  a 
bad  way — of  using  birds  not  otherwise  eatable. 

Salmis  of  grouse  stands  much  higher — indeed,  it 
is  probably  the  best  of  its  kind,  except  that  made  of 
wild  duck  ;  and  inasmuch  as  there  must  always  be 
remnants  of  roast  birds,  it  is  almost  a  necessary  sup- 
plement to  simpler  cookery,  besides  being  extremely 
good  of  itself.  But  it  is  necessary  to  remember  several 
things  about  a  salmis.  The  first  is,  that  though  the 
birds  are  always  cooked  first,  it  is  indispensable  that 


COOKERY   OF   THE    GROUSE  289 


the  sauce  or  gravy,  or  whatever  you  choose  to  call 
it,  should  have  a  thorough  flavour  of  them,  which 
is  not  to  be  attained  by  merely  warming  the  pieces  of 
game  in  it.  This  may  be  given,  of  course,  in  various 
ways,  either  by  stewing  the  bones,  skin,  trimmings, 
and  less  worthy  pieces  of  the  grouse  in  the  stock  used, 
or  by  adding  some  puree  or  '  essence  of  game  ; '  but  it 
must  be  attained  somehow.  The  next  thing  to  re- 
member is  that  this  gravy  or  sauce  when  finished 
should  never  be  a  mere  bath  or  slop.  Madame  Lebour- 
Fawssett  says  it  should  be  '  of  the  consistency  of  well- 
made  melted  butter,'  and  I  agree  with  her.  Lastly,  re- 
member that  there  must  always  be  wine  in  a  salmis;  and 
that  it  is  of  great  importance  what  wine  it  is.  English 
books  will  recommend  port  or  sherry,  which,  in  my 
humble  judgment,  are  extremely  bad  wines  for  all 
savoury  cooking  purposes.  Pale  dry  sherry  is,  for 
that  end,  mostly  quite  useless,  though  I  own  that  if 
I  were  rich  I  should  try  the  experiment  of  boiling  a 
ham  in  Manzanilla.  The  now  despised,  though  in 
its  way  gorgeous,  'old  brown'  is  apt  to  overpower 
every  other  flavour,  and  is  too  sweet,  objections  which 
apply  still  more  strongly  to  port  and  even  to  Madeira, 
which  is  sometimes  recommended,  and  which  is  cer- 
tainly preferable  to  either  port  or  sherry.  Besides,  all 
these  wines,  and  still  more  the  brown  '  cooking ' 

U 


290  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 


brandy,  which  it  is  whispered  is  sometimes  used, 
provoke  undue  thirst  and  general  discomfort.  A  sound 
red  Bordeaux  with  flavour  and  some  body  for  brown 
meats,  and  a  good  (not  an  acid  or  wiry)  Chablis  or 
Pouilly  for  white,  are  probably  the  best  things  for 
the  purpose.  And  I  must  again  praise  the  French 
lady  above  cited  for  recommending  equal  parts  of 
stock  and  wine  as  the  main  body  of  salmis  sauce. 
The  mixture  is  added  to  a  foundation  of  well-warmed 
and  browned  butter  and  flour,  plenty  of  seasoning, 
including  herbs,  some  shallot  rather  than  onion, 
and  at  the  last  a  little  lemon  juice,  remembering  the 
warnings  above  given.  Nothing  more  but  patience, 
careful  watching,  and  still  greater  care  when  the  game 
has  been  put  in  the  mixture  never  to  let  it  boil, 
is  required  lo  make  a  good  salmis.  But  all  this 
is  required,  and  without  it  the  thing  cannot  be  a 
success. 

There  is  no  perceptible  difference  between  the 
better  class  of  receipts  for  hashing  grouse  and  those 
for  a  salmis  of  it.  If  there  is  any,  it  is  that  the  hash 
gravy  may  be  a  little  thinner  ;  but  that  is  a  matter  of 
taste,  and  it  is  not  uncommon  to  find  cookery  books 
in  which  the  titles  of  the  receipts  for  the  two  processes 
might  be  changed  and  little  or  no  harm  done.  The 
fact  is  that  '  salmis  '  (a  term  of  which  even  the  great 


COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE  291 

I  jttre  did  not  know  the  origin,  but  which  I  venture 
to  think  a  mere  abbreviation  of  '  salmigondis  ')  is 
neither  more  nor  less  than  a  hash  or  ragout  of  game 
or  wild  birds,  which  has  had  its  name  extended  with- 
out strict  propriety  to  the  tame  duck,  but  no  farther. 

Stewed  grouse,  which  is,  or  was,  common  in  Scot- 
land, is  a  sort  of  application  of  the  process  of  hashing 
to  birds  not  previously  cooked,  and  presumably  old. 
You  cut  them  up,  fry  them  with  butter  and  shallot,  or 
garlic,  take  out  the  latter  and  then  simmer  them  gently 
for  half  an  hour  with  equal  but  not  large  quantities 
of  stock  and  wine.  There  should  be  a  good  deal  of 
pepper. 

Grouse  can  of  course  be  made  into  quenelles,  kro- 
meskisy  croquettes,  salpicons,  Vouchees,  and  all  the  other 
varieties  of  rissoles  in  which  pounded  or  minced  meat 
is  conveyed  into  fanciful  and  easily  consumed  shapes 
of  small  size.  They  might  be  made  into  a  pain  or 
quenelle  on  a  great  scale  ;  they  can  be  scuffled,  and 
are  very  good  so.  It  is  further  obvious  and  easy  to 
stuff  them  in  roasting  or  accompany  them  in  pieces 
with  all  kinds  of  forcemeat,  from  the  simplest  to  the 
most  complicated,  from  the  plain  liver-and-bread- 
crumb  to  compounds  a  lafinanciere  and  a  la  Lucullus, 
in  which  truffles  and  cockscombs  and  the  like  figure. 
Grouse  cutlets — the  birds  being  usually  halved,  partly 


292  COOKERY  OF   THE    GROUSE 

boned,  fried,  and  then  simmered  in  espagnole  or  some 
similar  sauce — are  well  enough,  and  can  be  sophisti- 
cated before  being  served  up  by  having  truffles  and 
other  associations  stuck  on  them.  It  is  also  some- 
times recommended  that  they  should  be  prepared  in 
this  way  before  being  made  into  a  pie. 

Most  of  the  books  contain  a  receipt  usually  stated 
(conscientiously)  to  be  German,  for  marinading  grouse, 
which  might  be  useful  either  in  the  case  of  birds 
accidentally  kept  too  long  or  in  that  of  very  aged  ones, 
or,  as  observed  above,  to  tame  the  wildness  of  the 
rougher  members  of  the  tribe.  Otherwise  I  cannot 
conceive  it  to  be  necessary  to  treat  good  red  grouse 
in  this  way,  however  useful  something  of  the  same 
kind  may  be  to  make  pork  taste  like  wild  boar,  rabbit 
like  hare,  and  very  dry  roe-venison  like  the  flesh  of  a 
hart  of  grease.  You  take  (the  particulars  never  vary) 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  score  of  juniper  berries, 
some  peppercorns,  and  two  or  three  bay  leaves.  You 
steep  the  birds  in  this  for  three  days,  frequently 
turning  them  and  spooning  the  marinade  over  them. 
You  then  stuff  them  with  turkey  stuffing,  lard  the 
breasts,  roast  and  serve. 

But  after  this  and  the  other  things  the  mind  returns 
from  these  excesses  to  the  elegance  of  a  good  roast 
grouse  simple  of  himself,  with  some  such  a  feeling  as 


COOKERY  OF   THE   GROUSE  293 

that  which  '  Neville  Temple  and  Edward  Trevor ' 
attributed  long  ago  to  Tannhauser  when 

a  dewy  sense 
Of  innocent  worship  stole 

over  his  heated  brain  and  sense  as  he  contemplated 
the  Princess  after  his  return  from  the  Venusberg.  It 
is  true  that  the  ingenious  wickedness  of  some  may 
draw  a  bad  moral  in  favour  of  variety  even  from  this 
comparison  ;  but  on  their  heads  be  it. 


PRINTED     BY 

SPOTTISWOODE    AND    CO.,    NEW-STREET    SQUARE 
LONDON 


THE   BADMINTON  LIBEAEY. 

Edited  by  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT,  K.G.  and  A.  E.  T.  WATSON. 


ATHLETICS    AND     FOOTBALL.      By    MONTAGUE 

SHEARMAN.  With  an  Introduction  by  Sir  RICHARD  WEBSTER,  Q.C.  M.P. 
With  51  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

BIG     GAME     SHOOTING.     By    CLIVE    PHILLIPPS- 

WOLLKY.  With  Contributions  by  Sir  SAMUEL  W.  BAKER,  W.  C.  OWELL, 
F.  J.  JACKSON,  WARBCRTON  PIKE,  F.  C.  SELOUS,  Lieut.-CoI.  R.  HHJEH 
PERCY,  ARNOLD  PIKE,  Major  ALGERNON  C.  HEBER  PEKCY,  W.  A.  BAILLIE- 
GBOHMAN,  &c. 

Vol.  I.  Africa  and  America.  With  20  Plates  and  57  Illustrations  in  the  Text. 
Crown  8vo.  10.?.  6c/. 

Vol.  II.  Europe,  Asia,  and  the  Arctic  Regions.  With  17  Plates  and  56  Illus- 
trations in  the  Text.  Crowii  Svo.  Iw.  6d. 

BOATING.     By  W.  B.  WOODGATE.     With  an  Intro- 

duction  by  the  Hev.  EDMOND  WARRE,  D.D.  and  a  Chapter  on  '  Rowing  at 
Eton'  by  R.  HARVEY  MASON.  With  49  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

COUKSING    AND    FALCONRY.    By  HARDING  Cox 

and  the  Hon.  GERALD  LASCELLES.  With  76  Illustrations.  Cr.  Svo.  10$  Gd. 

CRICKET.  By  A.  G.  STEEL  and  the  Hon.  R.  H.  LYTTEL- 

TON.  With  Contributions  by  ANDREW  LANG,  R.  A.  H.  MITCHELL,  W.  G. 
GRACE,  and  F.  GALK.  With  64  Illustrations.  Crown  Svo.  10*.  6d. 

CYCLING.     By  VISCOUNT  BURY,  K.C.M.G.  (the  Earl 

of  Albemarle),  and  G.  LACY  HILUEH.  With  89  Illustrations.  Crown 
Svo.  10s.  6d. 

DRIVING.     By  His  Grace  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT, 

E.G.    With  65  Illustrations.    Crown  Svo.  10$.  M. 

FENCING,  BOXING,  and  WRESTLING.  By  WALTER 

H.  POLLOCK,  F.  <\  GROVE,  C.  PREVOST,  E.  B.  MITCHELL,  and  WALTKU 
ARMSTKONG.  With  42  Illustrations.  Crown  Svo.  10*.  6rf. 

FISHING.      By  H.  CHOLMONDELEY-PENNELL.    With 

Contributions  by  the  MARQUIS  OF  EXETER,  HENRV  R.  FRANCIS.  Major 
JOHN  P.  TBAHEKXE,  FRBDKRIC  M.  HALFOBD,  G.  CHBISTOPIIEU  DA  VIES, 
R.  B.  MAUSTON,  «fcc. 

Vol.    I.  Salmon  and  Trout.    With  158  Illustrations.    Crown  fvo.  in*.  6  /. 

Vol.  II.  Pike  and  other  Coarse  Fish.  With  133  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. 
10*.  6d. 

GOLF.     By  HORACE  G.  HUTCHINSON,  the  Right  Hon. 

A.  J.  BALFOUB.  M.f.  Sir  WALTER  G.  SIMPSON, Bart.  LORD  *'KLLWOOD, 
H.  S.  C.  EVERARD,  ANDREW  LANG,  and  other  Writers.  With  89  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  svo.  10*.  6</.  [OVER 

London:  LONGMANS,  GREEX,  &  CO. 


THE  BADMINTON  LIBBAEY. 

Edited  by  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT,  K.G.  and  A.  E.  T.  WATSON. 


HUNTING.     By  the  DUKE   OF  BEAUFORT,  K.G.  and 

MOWBRAY  Mouiiis.  With  Contributions  by  the  EAHL  OF  SITFOLK  AND 
BERKSHIRE,  Rev.  E.  W.  L.  DAVIKS,  DIGBY  COLLINS,  Sir  MARTEINE  LI.OYD. 
GEORGE  H.  LONGMAN,  J.  C.  GIBBOXR,  and  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON.  With 
60  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  Ws.  6d. 

MOUNTAINEERING.     By  C.  T.  DENT,  with  Contri- 

bntions  by  W.  M.  COXWAY,  D.  W.  FRESHFIELD,  C.  E.  MATHEWS,  C. 
PILKINGTON,  Sir  F.  POLLOCK,  H.  G.  WILLINK.  atid  an  Introduction  by 
Mr.  JUSTICE  WILLS.  Wit  a  108  Illustrations.  Crown  Svo.  10*.  6<Z. 

RACING  AND  STEEPLE-CHASING.     Pacing :  By 

the  EARL  OF  SUFFOLK  AND  BKRKSHIRE  and  W.  G.  CRAVEN.  With  a 
Contribution  by  the  Hon.  F.  LAWLEY.  Steeple-chaung  :  By  ARTHUR 
COVENTRY  and  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON.  With  58  Illustrations.  Crown 
8vo.  I0i.  6rf. 

RIDING    AND   POLO.     By  Captain   ROBERT  WEIR, 

Riding  Master,  R.H.G.  and  J.  MORAY  BKOWN.  With  Contributions  by 
the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT,  the  EARL  OF  SUFFOLK  AND  BERKSHIRE,  the 
EARL  OF  ONSLOW,  E.  L.  ANDERSON,  aud  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON.  With 
59  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

SHOOTING.    By  LORD  WALSINGHAM  and  Sir  RALPH 

PAYNE-GALLWEY,  Bart.  With  Contributions  by  LORD  LOVAT,  LORD 
CHARLES  LENXOX  KEHR,  the  Hon.  G.  LASCELLES,  aud  A.  J.  STUABT- 
WORTLEY. 

Vol.    I.  Field  and  Covert.    With  105  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

Vol.  II.  Moor  and  Marsh.    With  65  Illustrations.    Crown  Svo.  10*.  6<i. 

SKATING,  CURLING,  TOBOGGANING,  and  other 

ICE  SPORTS.  By  J.  M.  HEATHCOTE,  C.  G.  TEBBUTT.  T.  MAXWELL 
WITHAM,  the  Rev.  JOHN  KERR,  ORMOND  HAKE,  and  HENRY  A.  BUCK. 
With  284  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6<f. 

SWIMMING.     By  ARCHIBALD  SINCLAIR  and  WILLIAM 

HENRY,  Hon.  Sees,  of  the  Life-Saving  Society.  With  119  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo.  10s.  6d. 

TENNIS,  LAWN  TENNIS,  RACKETS,  and  FIVES. 

By  J.  M.  and  C.  G.  HEATHCOTE,  E.  0.  PLEYDELL-BOUVKRIE,  aud  A.  C. 
AINGER.  With  Contributions  by  the  Hon.  A.  LYTTELTOX,  W.  C. 
MARSHALL,  Miss  L.  DODD,  H.  W.  W.  WILBERFORCE,  H.  F.  LAWFOKD,  &c. 
With  79  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  10*.  6d. 

YACHTING.  By  Sir  EDWARD  SULLIVAN,  LORD  BRASSEY, 

R.  T.  PRircHETT,  the  EARL  OF  ONSLOW,  LEWIS  HKRRESHUFF,  &c.  With 
309  Illustrations.  2  vols.  Crown  8vo.  10j\  erf.  each. 

London:  LONGMANS,  GREEN,  &  CO. 


MESSRS.  LONGMANS,  GREEN,  &  CO.'S 

CLASSIFIED     CATALOGUE 

OF 

WORKS    IN    GENERAL    LITERATURE. 


History,  Politics,  Polity,  and  Political  Memoirs. 


Abbott.— A  HISTORY  OF  GREECE.    By 
EVELYN  ABBOTT,  M.A.,  LL.D. 
Part  I.— From  the  Earliest  Times  to  the 
Ionian  Revolt.     Crown  8vo.,  los.  6d. 
Part  II. — 500-445  B.C.     Cr.  8vo.,  IQS.  6d. 

Acland  and  Ransome.— A  HAND- 
BOOK IN  OUTLINE  OF  THE  POLITICAL 
HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND  TO  1890.  Chro- 
nologically Arranged.  By  the  Right  Hon. 
A.  H.  DYKE  ACLAND,  M.P.,  and  CYRIL 
RANSOME,  M.A.  Crown  8vo.,  6s. 

ANNUAL  REGISTER  (THE).  A  Re- 
view of  Public  Events  at  Home  and 
Abroad,  for  the  year  1892.  8vo.,  i8j. 

Volumes  of  the  ANNUAL  REGISTER  for 
the  years  1863-1891  can  still  be  had. 
i8j.  each. 

Armstrong. — ELIZAPKTH  FARNESE  ; 
The  Termagant  of  Spain.  By  EDWARD 
ARMSTRONG,  M.A.,  Fellow  of  Queen's 
College,  Oxford.  8vo.,  i6s. 

Arnold.— Works  by  T.  ARNOLD,  D.D., 
formerly  Head  Master  of  Rugby  School. 

INTRODUCTORY  LECTURES  ON  MODERN 
HISTORY.  8vo.,  75.  6d. 

MISCELLANEOUS  WORKS.    8vo.,  73.  6d. 

Bagwell. — IRELAND  UNDER  THE 
TIIDORS.  By  RICHARD  BAGWELL, 
LL.D.  3  vols.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  From 
the  first  Invasion  of  the  Northmen  to  the 
year  1578.  8vo.,  321.  Vol.  III.  1578- 
1603.  8vo.,  i8j. 


Ball. — HISTORICAL  REVIEW  OF  THE 
LEGISLATIVE  SYSTEMS  OPERATIVE  IN 
IRELAND,  from  the  Invasion  of  Henry 
the  Second  to  the  Union  (1172-1800). 
By  the  Rt.  Hon.  J.  T.  BALL.  8vo.,  6s. 

Besant.— THE  HISTORY  OF  LONDON. 
By  WALTER  BESANT.  With  74  Illus- 
trations. Crown  8vo.  School  Reading- 
book  Edition,  is.  gd.\  Prize-book  Edition, 
2s.  6d. 

Buckle. — HISTORY  OF  Ci  ,-ILISATION  IN 
ENGLAND  AND  FRAN<  E,.  SPAIN  AND 
SCOTLAND.  By  HENRY  THOMAS 
BUCKLE.  3  vols.  Crown  8vo.,  245. 

Creighton. — HISTORY  OF  THE  PAPACY 

DURING       THE       REFORMATION.          By 

MANDELL  CREIGHTON.  D.D. ,  LL.D., 
Bishop  of  Peterborough.  8vo.  Vols. 
I.  and  II.  1378-1464.  325.  Vols. 
III.  and  IV.  "1464-1518.  24;.  Vol. 
V.  1517-1527.  jy. 

Crump. — A  SHORT  INQUIRY  INTO  THE 
FORMATION  OF  POLITICAL  OPINION, 
from  the  reign  of  the  Great  Families  to 
the  advent  of  Democracy.  By  ARTHUR 
CRUMP.  8vo.,  js.  6d. 

De  Tocqueville.  —  DEMOCRACY  IN 
AMERICA.  By  ALEXIS  DE  TOCQUE- 
VILLE. 2  vols.  Crown  8vo.,  i6s. 

Fit  z  patrick.— SECRET  SERVICE 
UNDER  PITT.  By  W.  J.  FITZPATRICK, 
F.S.A.,  Author  of  'Correspondence  of 
Daniel  O'Connell '.  8vo. ,  75.  6d. 

Freeman. — THE  HISTORICAL  GEO- 
GRAPHY OF  EUROPE.  By  EDWARD  A. 
FREEMAN,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.  With  65 
Maps.  '  vols.  8vo. ,  31*.  6d. 


LONGMANS  &>  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


History,  Politics,  Polity,  and 

Froude. — Works  by  JAMES  A.  FROUDE, 
Regius  Professor  of  Modern  History  in  j 
the  University  of  Oxford. 
THE  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND,  from  the  ! 

Fall  of  Wolsey  to  the  Defeat  of  the ! 

Spanish  Armada. 

Popular   Edition.     12   vols.      Crown 
8vo. ,  y.  6d.  each. 

Silver     Library     Edition.       12    vols. 

Crown  8vo.,  y.  6d.  each. 
THE  DIVORCE  OF  CATHERINE  OF  ARA- 

GON :  the  Story  as  told  by  the  Imperial 

Ambassadors  resident  at  the  Court  of 

Henry  VIII.     Crown  8vo.,  6s. 
THE  SPANISH  STORY  OF  THE  ARMADA, 

and    other    Essays,    Historical    and 

Descriptive.     Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 
THE  ENGLISH    IN    IRELAND  IN  THE 

EIGHTEENTH  CENTURY.    3  vols.   Cr. 

8vo.,  i8s. 

SHORT  STUDIES  ON  GREAT  SUBJECTS. 

4  vols.     Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d.  each. 
QESAR  :  a  Sketch.    Cr.  8vo. ,  3*.  6d. 

Gardiner.— Works  by  SAMUEL  RAW- 
SON  GARDINER,  M.A.,  Hon.  LL.D., 
Edinburgh,  Fellow  of  Merton  College, 
Oxford. 

HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND,  from  the  Ac- 
cession of  James  I.  to  the  Outbreak  of 
the  Civil  War,   1603-1642.     10  vols. 
Crown  8vo. ,  6s.  each. 
A  HISTORY  OF  THE  GREAT  CIVIL  WAR, 
1642-1649.    4  rols.    Cr.  8vo.,  6s.  each. 
THE  STUDENT'S  HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND, 
With  378  Illustrations.     Cr.  8vo. ,  T.ZS. 

Also  in  Three  Volumes. 
Vol.  I.  B.C.  55— A.D.  1509.    With  173 

Illustrations.     Crown  8vo.  4^. 
Vol.  II.  1509-1689.     With  96  Illustra- 
tions.    Crown  8vo.  4J. 
Vol.  III.   1689-1885.    With  109  Illus- 
trations.    Crown  8vo.  4^. 

Gran.ville.~THE  LETTERS  OF  HARRIET 
COUNTESS  GRANVILLE,  1810-1845. 
Edited  by  her  Son,  the  Hon.  F.  LEVE- 
SON  GOWER.  2  vols.  8vo. ,  3ar. 

Greville. — A  JOURNAL  OF  THE  REIGNS 
OF  KING  GEORGE  IV.,  KING  WILLIAM 
IV.,  AND  QUEEN  VICTORIA.  By 
CHARLES  C.  F.  GREVILLE,  formerly 
Clerk  of  the  Council.  8  vols.  Crown 
8vo.,  6s.  each. 

Hart.-- PR  ACTICAL  ESSAYS  IN  AMERICAN 
GOVERNMENT.  By  ALBERT  BUSHNELL 
HART,  Ph.D.,  &c.  Cr.  8vo.,  6s 


Political  Memoirs — continued. 

Hearn.— THE  GOVERNMENT  OF  ENG- 
LAND :  its  Structure  and  its  Development 
By  W.  EDWARD  HEARN.  8vo. ,  i6s. 

Historic  Towns. — Edited  by  E.  A. 

FREEMAN,  D.C.L.,  and  Rev.  WILLIAM 

HUNT,  M.A.     With  Maps  and  Plans. 

Crown  8vo.,  35.  6d.  each. 

BRISTOL.    By  the  Rev.  W.  HUNT. 

CARLISLE.  By  MANDELLCREIGHTON, 
D.  D. ,  Bishop  of  Peterborough. 

CINQUE  PORTS.  By  MONTAGU  BUR- 
ROWS. 

COLCHESTER.     By  Rev.  E.  L.  CUTTS. 

EXETER.    By  E.  A.  FREEMAN. 

LONDON.     By  Rev.  W.  J.  LOFTIE. 

OXFORD.     By  Rev.  C.  W.  BOASE. 

WINCHESTER.  By  Rev.  G.  W.  KIT- 
CHIN,  D.D. 

YORK.    By  Rev.  JAMES  RAINE. 

NEW  YORK.  By  THEODORE  ROOSEVELT. 

BOSTON  (U.S.)  By  HENRY  CABOT 
LODGE. 

Horley. — SEFTON  :  A  DESCRIPTIVE  AND 
HISTORICAL  ACCOUNT.  Comprising  the 
Collected  Notes  and  Researches  of  the 
late  Rev.  ENGELBERT  HORLEY,  M.A., 
Rector  1871-1883.  By  W.  D.  CAROE, 
M.A.  (Cantab.),  Fellow  of  the  Royal 
Institute  of  British  Architects,  and  E.  J. 
A.  GORDON.  With  17  Plates  and  32  Illus- 
trations in  the  Text.  Royal  8vo.,  31^.  6J. 

Joyce.— A  SHORT  HISTORYOF  IRELAND, 
from  the  Earliest  Times  to  1608.  By  P. 
W.  JOYCE,  LL.D.  Crown  8vo.,  105.  6d. 

Lang.— ST.  ANDREWS.  By  ANDREW 
LANG.  With  8  Plates  and  24  Illustra- 
tions in  the  Text,  by  T.  HODGE.  Svo. , 
155.  net. 

Lecky. — Works  by  WILLIAM  EDWARD 
HARTPOLE  LECKY. 

HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND  IN  THE  EIGH- 
TEENTH CENTURY. 
Library  Edition.     8  vols.  8vo.,  £j  45. 
Cabinet  Edition.     ENGLAND.     7  vols. 
Cr.  8vo.F  6s.  each.     IRELAND.     5 
vols.     Crown   8vo.,  65.  each. 
HISTORY  OF  EUROPEAN  MORALS  FROM 
AUGUSTUS   TO    CHARLEMAGNE.      2 
vols.     Crown  Svo. ,  i6s. 
HISTORY  OF  THE  RISE  AND  INFLUENCE 
OF  THE  SPIRIT  OF  RATIONALISM  IN 
EUROPE.     2  vols.     Crown  Svo. ,  i6s. 


LONGMANS  &  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL  WORKS. 


History,  Politics,  Polity,  and 

Macaulay. — Works   by    LORD    MAC- 
AULAY. 

COMPLETE  WORKS. 

Cabinet  Ed.  16  vols.  Pt.  8vo. ,  £4 *6s. 
Library  Edition.  8  vols.  8vo.,^5  51. 

HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND  FROM  THE  AC- 
CESSION OF  JAMES  THE  SECOND. 

Popular  Edition.  2  vols.  Cr.  8vo. ,  5.?. 
Student's  Edition.  2  vols.  Cr.  8vo.,i2j. 
People's  Edition.  4  vols.  Cr.  8vo.  ,i6s. 
Cabinet  Edition.  8  vols.  Pt.  8vo. ,  48^. 
Library  Edition.  5  vols.  8vo.,  ^4. 

CRITICAL  AND  HISTORICAL  ESSAYS, 
WITH  LAYS  OF  ANCIENT  ROME,  in  i 
volume. 

Popular  Edition.     Crown  8vo.,  2J.  6d. 
Authorised     Edition.      Crown    8vo. , 
2J.  6d. ,  or  y.  6d. ,  gilt  edges. 

Silver  Library  Edition.  Crown  8vo., 
y.  6d. 

CRITICAL  AND  HISTORICAL  ESSAYS. 
Student's  Edition,  i  vol.  Cr.  8vo.,6s. 
People's  Edition.  2  vols.  Cr.  8vo. ,  8s. 
Trevelyan  Edition.  2  vols.  Cr.  8vo.,9J 
Cabinet  Edition.  4  vols.  Post 8vo.,  245. 
Library  Edition.  3  vols.  8vo.,  36*. 

ESSAYS  which  may  be  had  separately 
price  6d.  each  sewed,  is.  each  cloth. 

Frederick  the  Great.  Lord  Clive. 

Lord  Bacon.  The   Earl  of  Chat- 

Addison  and    Wai-  ham(Two  Essays). 

pole.  Ranke    and    Glad- 

Croker's     Boswell's  stone. 

Johnson.  Milton  and  Machia- 

Hallam's    Constitu-  velli. 

tional  History.  Lord  Byron,and  The 

Warren       Hastings  Comic  Dramatists 

(3^.  swd.,  6d.  cl.).  of  the  Restoration. 

SPEECHES.     Crown  8vo. ,  3^.  6d. 
MISCELLANEOUS  WRITINGS. 

People's  Ed.    i  vol.    Cr.  8vo. ,  4*.  6d. 

Library  Edition.     2  vols.     8vo.,  21  s. 
MISCELLANEOUS       WRITINGS      AND 

SPEECHES. 

Popular  Edition.     Cr.  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 
Student's  Edition.     Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 

Cabinet  Edition.  Including  Indian 
Penal  Code,  Lays  of  Ancient  Rome, 
and  Miscellaneous  Poems.  4  vols. 
Post  8vo. ,  241. 


Political   Memoirs — continued. 

Macaulay.— Works  by  LORD  MAC- 
AULAY.— continued. 

SELECTIONS  FROM  THE  WRITINGS  OF 
LORD  MACAULAY.  Edited,  with 
Occasional  Notes,  by  the  Right  Hon. 
Sir  G.  O.  Trevelyan,  Bart.  Crown 
8vo.,  6s. 

May.— THE  CONSTITUTIONAL  HISTORY 
OF  ENGLAND  since  the  Accession  of 
George  III.  1760-1870.  By  Sir  THOMAS 
ERSKINE  MAY,  K.C.B.  (Lord  Farn- 
borough).  3  vols.  Crown  8vo.,  i8j. 

Merivale. — Works  by  the  Very  Rev. 
CHARLES  MERIVALE,  late  Dean  of  Ely. 
HISTORY  OF  THE  ROMANS  UNDER  THE 

EMPIRE. 

Cabinet  Edition.  8  vols.  Cr.  8vo.,4&r. 

Silver  Library  Edition.     8  vols.     Cr. 

8vo.,  35.  6d.  each. 
THE  FALL  OF  THE  ROMAN  REPUBLIC  : 

a  Short  History  of  the  Last  Century 

of  the  Commonwealth.     I2mo. ,  js.  6d. 

Parkes. — FIFTY  YEARS  IN  THE  MAKING 
OF  AUSTRALIAN  HISTORY.  By  Sir 
HENRY  PARKES,  G.C.M.G.  With  2 
Portraits  (1854  and  1892).  2  vols.  8vo. , 
32^. 

Prendergast. — IRELAND  FROM  THE 
RESTORATION  TO  THE  REVOLUTION, 
1660-1690.  By  JOHN  P.  PRENDERGAST, 
Author  of  '  The  Cromwellian  Settlement 
in  Ireland'.  8vo.,  55. 

Round. — GEOFFREY  DE  MANDEVILLE: 
a  Study  of  the  Anarchy.  By  J.  H. 
ROUND,  M.A.  8vo.,  i6s. 

Seebohm. — THE  ENGLISH  VILLAGE 
COMMUNITY  Examined  in  its  Relations 
to  the  Manorial  and  Tribal  Systems,  &c. 
By  FREDERIC  SEEBOHM.  With  13  Maps 
and  Plates.  8vo. ,  i6j. 

Smith. — CARTHAGE  AND  THE  CARTHA- 
GINIANS. By  R.  BOSWORTH  SMITH, 
M.A.  With  Maps,  &c.  Cr.  8vo. ,  3*.  6d. 

Stephens.— PAROCHIALSELF-GOVERN- 

MKNT  IN  RURAL  DISTRICTS:  Argument 
and  Plan.  By  HENRY  C.  STEPHENS, 
M.P.  410.,  I2J.  6d.  Popular  Edition. 
Cr.  8vo. ,  is. 

Stephens.— A  HISTORY OFTHE  FRENCH 
REVOLUTION.  By  H.  MORSE  STEPHENS, 
Balliol  College,  Oxford.  3  vols.  8vo. 
Vols.  I.  and  II.  i8s.  each. 


LONGMANS  &>  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


History,  Politics,  Polity,  and  Political  Memoirs— continued. 


Stubbs. — HISTORY  OF  THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  DUBLIN,  from  its  Foundation  to  the 
End  of  the  Eighteenth  Century.  By  J. 
W.  STUBBS.  8vo.,  izs.  6d. 

Sutherland. — THE  HISTORY  OF 
AUSTRALIA  AND  NEW  ZEALAND,  from 
1606101890.  By  ALEXANDER  SUTHER- 
LAND, M.A.,  and  GEORGE  SUTHER- 
LAND, M.A.  Crown  8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 

Thompson.— POLITICS  IN  A  DEMO- 
CRACY :  an  Essay.  By  DANIEL  GREEN- 
LEAF  THOMPSON.  Cr.  8vo.,  55. 

Todd. — PARLIAMENTARY  GOVERNMENT 
IN  THE  COLONIES.  ByALPHEUsToDD, 
LL.D.  8vo. ,  305.  net. 

Tupper.  —  OUR  INDIAN  PROTECTO- 
RATE :  an  Introduction  to  the  Study  of 
the  Relations  between  the  British  Govern- 
ment and  its  Indian  Feudatories.  By 
CHARLES  LEWIS  TUPPER,  Indian  Civil 
Service.  Royal  8vo.,  i6j. 


Wakeman  and  Hassall. — ESSAYS 
INTRODUCTORY  TO  THE  STUDY  OF  ENG- 
LISH CONSTITUTIONAL  HISTORY.  By 
Resident  Members  of  the  University  of 
Oxford.  Edited  by  HENRY  OFFLEY 
WAKEMAN,  M.A.,  and  ARTHUR  HAS- 
SALL, M.A.  Crown  8vo.,  6s. 

Walpole.— Works  by  SPENCER  WAL- 

POLE. 

HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND  FROM  THE  CON- 
CLUSION OF  THE  GREAT  WAR  IN 
1815  TO  1858.  6  vols.  Crown  8vo., 
6s.  each. 

THE  LAND  OF  HOME  RULE  :  being  an 
Account   of  the  History  and  Institu- 
tions of  the  Isle  of  Man.     Cr.  8vo. ,  6s. 
"Wylie. — HISTORY  OF  ENGLAND  UNDER 
HENRY   IV.      By   JAMES   HAMILTON 
WYLIE,  M.A.,  one  of  H.  M.  Inspectors 
of  Schools.     3  vols.     Crown  8vo.     Vol. 
I.     ior.  6d.     Vol.  II.     i$r    Vol.  III. 

[/«  preparation. 


Biography,  Personal  Memoirs,  &c. 


Armstrong. — THE  LIFE  AND  LETTERS 
OF  EDMUND  J.  ARMSTRONG.  Edited 
by  G.  F.  ARMSTRONG.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  75.  6d. 

Bacon. — LETTERS  AND  LIFE,  INCLUD- 
ING ALL  HIS  OCCASIONAL  WORKS. 
Edited  by  J.  SPEDDING.  7  vols.  8vo., 
£44-*- 

Bagehot.— BIOGRAPHICAL  STUDIES. 
By  WALTER  BAGEHOT.  8vo.,  121. 

Boyd. — TWENTY-FIVE  YEARS  OF  ST. 
ANDREWS,  1865-1890.  By  A.  K.  H. 
BOYD,  D.D. ,  Author  of  '  Recreations  of 
a  Country  Parson,'  &c.  2  vols.  8vo. 

Vol.    I.,   T.2S.       Vol.    II.,    I$S. 

Carlyle. — THOMAS  CARLYLE  :  a  History 
of  his  Life.     By.  J.  A.  FROUDE. 
179^-1835.     2  vols.     Crown  8vo. ,  ?s. 
1834-1881.     2  vols.     Crown  8vo. ,  js. 

Fabert. — ABRAHAM  FABERT  :  Governor 
of  Sedan  and  Marshal  of  France.  His 
Life  and  Times,  1599-1662.  By  GEORGE 
HOOPER,  Author  of  'Waterloo,'  'Wel- 
lington,' &c.  With  a  Portrait.  8vo., 
loj.  6d. 

Fox. — THE  EARLY  HISTORY  OF  CHARLES 
JAMES  Fox.  By  the  Right  Hon.  Sir  G. 
O.  TREVELYAN,  Bart. 

Library  Edition.     8vo. ,  i8s. 
Cabinet  Edition.     Crown  8vo. ,  fs. 


Hamilton.— LIFE  OF  SIR  WILLIAM 
HAMILTON.  By  R.  P.  GRAVES.  3  vols. 
155.  each. 

ADDENDUM  TO  THE  LIFE  OF  SIR  WM. 
ROWAN  HAMILTON,  LL.D.,  D.C.L., 
8vo.,  6d.  sewed. 

Hassall. — THE  NARRATIVE  OF  A  BUSY 
LIFE  :  an  Autobiography.  By  ARTHUR 
HILL  HASSALL,  M.D.  8vo., '  y. 

Havelock. — MEMOIRS  OF  SIR  HENRY 
HAVELOCK,  K.C.B.  By  JOHN  CLARK 
MARSHMAN.  Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

Maeaulay. — THE  LIFE  AND  LETTERS 
OF  LORD  MACAULAY.     By  the  Right 
Hon.  Sir  G.  O.  TREVELYAN,  Bart. 
Popular  Edition,  i  vol.  Cr.  8vo.,2s.  6d. 
Student's  Edition,    i  vol.    Cr.  8vo. ,6s. 
Cabinet  Edition.  2  vols.  Post  8vo. ,  i2s. 
Library  Edition.    2  vols.     8vo. ,  36^. 

Marbot. — THE  MEMOIRS  OF  THE  BARON 
DE  MARBOT.  Translated  from  the 
French  by  ARTHUR  JOHN  BUTLER, 
M.A.  Crown  8vo. ,  -js.  6d. 

Montrose. — DEEDS  OF  MONTROSE  : 
THE  MEMOIRS  OF  JAMES,  MARQUIS  OF 
MONTROSE,  1639-1650.  By  the  Rev. 
GEORGE  WISHART,  D.D. '(Bishop  of 
Edinburgh,  1662-1671).  Translated, 
with  Introduction,  Notes,  &c. ,  and  the 
original  Latin,  by  the  Rev.  ALEX- 
ANDER MURDOCH,  F.S.A.  (Scot.), 
and  H.  F.  MORELAND  SIMPSON,  M.A. 
(Cantab.).  410.,  365.  net. 


LONGMANS  &»  CO. 'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


Biography,  Personal  Memoirs,  &c. — continued. 

Verney. — MEMOIRS  OF   THE  VERNEY 


Seebohm.— THE  OXFORD  REFORMERS 
— JOHN  COLET,  ERASMUS  AND  THOMAS 
MORE  :  a  History  of  their  Fellow-Work. 
By  FREDERIC  SEEBOHM.  8vo. ,  145. 

Shakespeare.— OUTLINES  OF  THE 
LIFE  OF  SHAKESPEARE.  By  J.  O. 
HALLIWELL-PHILLIPPS.  With  nume- 
rous Illustrations  and  Fac-similes.  2 
vols.  Royal  8vo.,  £i  is. 

Shakespeare's  TRUE  LIFE.  By  JAS. 
WALTER.  With  500  Illustrations  by 
GERALD  E.  MOIRA.  Imp.  8vo.,  2is. 


Sherbrooke.— LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF 
THE  RIGHT  HON.  ROBERT  LOWE,  VIS- 
COUNT SHERBROOKE,  G.C.B.,  together 
with  a  Memoir  of  his  Kinsman,  Sir  JOHN 
COAPE  SHERBROOKE,  G.C.B.  By  A. 
PATCHETT  MARTIN.  With  5  Portraits. 
2  vols.  8vo.,  363. 

Stephen. — ESSAYS  IN  ECCLESIASTICAL 
BIOGRAPHY.  By  Sir  JAMES  STEPHEN. 
Crown  8vo. ,  75.  6d. 


FAMILY  DURING  THE  CIVIL  WAR. 
Compiled  from  the  Letters  and  Illus- 
trated by  the  Portraits  at  Claydon  House, 
Bucks.  By  FRANCES  PARTHENOPE 
VERNEY.  With  a  Preface  by  S.  R. 
GARDINER,  M.A.,  LL.D.  With  38 
Portraits,  Woodcuts  and  Fac-simile.  2 
vols.  Royal  8vo. ,  421. 

"Wagner. — WAGNER  AS  I  KNEW  HIM. 
By  FERDINAND  PRAEGER.  Crown  8vo. , 
7-r.  6d. 

Walford. — TWELVE  ENGLISH  AUTHOR- 
ESSES. By  L.  B.  WALFORD,  Author  of 
'  Mischief  of  Monica,'  &c.  With  Portrait 
of  Hannah  More.  Crown  8vo. ,  4^.  6d. 

Wellington. — LIFE  OF  THE  DUKE  OF 
WELLINGTON.  By  the  Rev.  G.  R. 
GLEIG,  M.A.  Crown  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

Wordsworth.— Works   by   CHARLES 
WORDSWORTH,  D.C.L.,  late  Bishop  of 
St.  Andrews. 
ANNALS  OF  MY   EARLY  LIFE,   1806- 

1846.    8vo. ,  155. 

ANNALS  OF  MY  LIFE,  1847-1856.   8vo., 
ios.  6d. 


Arnold.  —  SEAS  AND  LANDS.  By  Sir 
EDWIN  ARNOLD,  K.C.I.E.  With  71 
Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.  ,  75.  6d. 


Travel  and  Adventure. 

Brassey.— Works  by  LADY  BRASSEY. 
A  VOYAGE  IN  THE  'SUNBEAM';  OUR 


AUSTRALIA  AS  IT  IS;  or,  Facts  and 
Features,  Sketches  and  Incidents  of 
Australia  and  Australian  Life,  with 
Notices  of  New  Zealand.  By  A  CLER- 
GYMAN. Crown  8vo.,  5^. 

Baker.  —  Works  by  Sir  SAMUEL  WHITE 
BAKER. 
EIGHT  YEARS  IN  CEYLON.      With  6 

Illustrations.     Crown  8vo.  ,  35.  6d. 
THE  RIFLE  AND  THE  HOUND  IN  CEY- 

LON.   6  Illustrations.    Cr.  8vo.  ,  y.  6d. 

Bent.—  Works  by  J.  THEODORE  BENT, 

F.S.A.,  F.R.G.S. 

THE  RUINED  CITIES  OF  MASHONA- 
LAND  :  being  a  Record  of  Excavation 
and  Exploration  in  1891.  With  Map, 
13  Plates,  and  104  Illustrations  in  the 
Text.  Cr.  8vo.  ,  -js.  6d. 

THE  SACRED  CITY  OF  THE  ETHIOPIANS: 
being  a  Record  of  Travel  and  Re- 
search in  Abyssinia  in  1893.  With  8 
Plates  and  65  Illustrations  in  the 
Text.  8vo.,  iSs 


HOME  ON  THE  OCEAN  FOR  ELEVEN 
MONTHS. 

Library  Edition.  With  8  Maps  and 
Charts,  and  118  Illustrations.  8vo. , 

21S. 

Cabinet  Edition.  With  Map  and  66 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.,  75.  6d. 

Silver  Library  Edition.  With  66 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

Popular  Edition.  With  60  Illustra- 
tions. 410.,  6d.  sewed,  is.  cloth. 

School  Edition.  With  37  Illustrations. 
Fcp.,  2S.  cloth,  or  3^-.  white  parch- 
ment. 

SUNSHINE  AND  STORM  IN  THE  EAST. 

Library  Edition.  With  2  Maps  and 
141  Illustrations.  8vo.,  2is. 

Cabinet  Edition.  With  2  Maps  and 
1 14  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.  ,?s.6d 

Popular  Edition.  With  103  Illustra- 
tions. 410. ,  6d.  sewed,  is.  cloth. 


LONGlfANS  fir»  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


Travel  and  Adventure — continued. 


Brassey. — Works  by  LADY  BRASSEY — 
continued. 

IN  THE  TRADFo,  THE  TROPICS,  AND 
THE  '  ROARING  FORTIES'. 
Cabinet  Edition.     With  Map  and  220 

Illustrations.     Crown  8vo. ,  75.  6d. 
Popular  Edition.     With  183  Illustra- 
tions.    410.,  6d.  sewed,  u.  cloth. 

THREE  VOYAGES  IN  THE  '  SUNBEAM  '. 
Popular  Edition.  With  346  Illustra- 
tions. 410. ,  2J.  6a. 

THE  LAST  VOYAGE  TO  INDIA  AND 
AUSTRALIA  IN  THE  'SUNBEAM'. 
With  Charts  and  Maps,  and  40  Illus- 
trations in  Monotone  (20  full-page), 
and  nearly  200  Illustrations  in  the 
Text  from  Drawings  by  R.  T.  PRIT- 
CHETT.  8vo.,  2is. 

Curzon. — PERSIA  AND  THE  PERSIAN 
QUESTION.  With  9  Maps,  96  Illustra- 
tions, Appendices,  and  an  Index.  By 
the  Hon.  GEORGE  N.  CURZON,  M.P. , 
late  Fellow  of  All  Souls'  College,  Ox- 
ford. 2  vols.  8vo. ,  42j. 

Provide. — Works  by  JAMES  A.  FROUDE. 

OCEANA  :  or  England  and  her  Colonies. 
With  9  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. , 
zj.  boards,  zs.  6d.  cloth. 

THE  ENGLISH  IN  THE  WEST  INDIES  : 
or  the  Bow  of  Ulysses.  With  9  Illus- 
trations. C'r.  8vo. ,  2s.  bds. ,  2s.  6d.  cL 

Howard.-LiFE  WITH  TRANS-SIBERIAN 
SAVAGES.  By  B.  DOUGLAS  HOWARD, 
M.A.  Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 

Howitt. — VISITS  TO  REMARKABLE 
PLACES,  Old  Halls,  Battle-Fields, 
Scenes  illustrative  of  Striking  Passages 
in  English  History  and  Poetry.  By 
WILLIAM  HOWITT.  With  80  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

Knight.— Works  by   E.   F.   KNIGHT, 
Author  of  the  Cruise  of  the  '  Falcon '. 
THE  CRUISE  OF  THE  '  ALERTE  ' :  the 
Narrative  of  a  Search  for  Treasure  on 
the  Desert  Island  of  Trinidad.     With 
2  Maps  and  23  Illustrations.     Crown 
8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

WHERE  THREE  EMPIRES  MEET  :  a  Nar- 
rative of  Recent  Travel  in  Kashmir, 
Wrestern  Tibet,  Baltistan,  Ladak, 
Gilgit,  and  the  adjoining  Countries. 
With  a  Map  and  54  Illustrations. 
Cr.  8vo. ,  7-r.  6d. 


Lees  and  Clutterbuck.— B.  C.  1887: 
A  RAMBLE  IN  BRITISH  COLUMBIA.  By 
J.  A.  LEES  and  W.  J.  CLUTTERBUCK, 
Authors  of  '  Three  in  Norway  '.  With 
Map  and  75  Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  3^.  6d. 

Montague.— TALES  OF  A  NOMAD  ;  or, 
Sport  and  Strife.  By  CHARLES  MON- 
TAGUE. Crown  8vo.,  6s, 

Nansen. — Works    by    Dr.    FRIDTJOF 
NANSEN. 
THE  FIRST  CROSSING  OF  GREENLAND. 

With   numerous   Illustrations  and  a 

Map.     Crown  8vo.,  -js.  6d. 
ESKIMO  LIFE.   Translated  by  WILLIAM 

ARCHER.      With   16  Plates   and   15 

Illustrations  in  the  Text.     8vo.,  i6s. 

Eiley.— ATHOS  :  or  the  Mountain  of  the 
Monks.  By  ATHELSTAN  RILEY,  M.A. 
With  Map  and  29  Illustrations.  8vo. ,  zis. 

Rockhill. — THE  LAND  OF  THE  LAMAS  : 
Notes  of  a  Journey  through  China,  Mon- 
golia, and  Tibet.  By  WILLIAM  WOOD- 
VILLE  ROCKHILL.  With  2  Maps  and 
61  Illustrations.  8vo.,  151. 

Stephens.— MADOC  :  An  Essay  on  the 
Discovery  of  America,  by  MADOC  AP 
OWEN  GWYNEDD,  in  the  Twelfth  Cen- 
tury. By  THOMAS  STEPHENS.  Edited 
by  LLYWARCH  REYNOLDS,  B.A.  Oxon. 
8vo. ,  73.  6d. 

THREE  IN  NORWAY.  By  Two  of 
Them.  With  a  Map  and  59  Illustra- 
tions. Cr.  8vo. ,  zs.  boards,  us.  6d.  cloth. 

Von  Hohnel.— DISCOVERY  OF  LAKES 
RUDOLF  AND  STEFANIE  :  Account  of 
Count  SAMUEL  TELEKI'S  Exploring 
and  Hunting  Expedition  in  Eastern 
Equatorial  Africa  in  1887  and  1888.  By 
Lieutenant  LUDWIG  VON  HOHNEL. 
With  179  Illustrations  and  6  Maps.  2 
vols.  8vo. ,  425. 

Whishaw.— OUT  OF  DOORS  IN  TSAR 
LAND ;  a  Record  of  the  Seeings  ano 
Doings  of  a  Wanderer  in  Russia.  By 
FRED.  J.  WHISHAW.  Cr.  8vo.,  -]s.  6d. 

Wolff.— Works  by  HENRY  W.  WOLFF. 
RAMBLES  IN  THE  BLACK  FOREST. 

Crown  8vo. ,  js.  6d. 
THE    WATERING    PLACES    OF    THE 

VOSGES.     Crown  8vo. ,  45.  6d. 
THE  COUNTRY  OF  THE  VOSGES.     With 

a  Map.     8vo. ,  12*. 


LO\'GAfANS  &  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


Sport  and  Pastime. 
THE   BADMINTON   LIBRARY. 

Edited  by  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT,  K.G.,  assisted  by  ALFRED  E.  T.  WATSON. 

MOUNTAINEERING.  By  C.  T.  DENT, 
Sir  F.  POLLOCK,  Bart. ,  W.  M.  CONVVAY, 
DOUGLAS  FRESHFIELD,  C.  E.  MA- 
THEWS,  C.  PlLKINGTON.  With  I08 
Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  IQJ.  6d. 


ATHLETICS  AND  FOOTBALL.  By 
MONTAGUE  SHEARMAN.  With  51 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.,  ior.  6d. 

BIG  GAME  SHOOTING.  By  C.  PHIL- 
LIPPS-WOLLEY,  F.  C.  SELOUS,  ST. 
GEORGE  LITTLEDALE,  &c.  With  150 
Illustrations.  2  vols.,  lot.  6d.  each. 

BOATING.  By  W.  B.  WOODGATE.  With 
49  Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  los.  6d. 

COURSING  AND  FALCONRY.  By 
HARDING  Cox  and  the  Hon.  GERALD 
LASCELLES.  With  76  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo. ,  ios.  6d. 

CRICKET.  ByA.G.  STEEL  and  the  Hon. 
R.  H.  LYTTELTON.  With  Contribu- 
tions by  ANDREW  LANG,  R.  A.  H.  MIT- 
CHELL, W.  G.  GRACE,  and  F.  GALE. 
With  63  Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo. ,  ios.  6d. 

CYCLING.  By  VISCOUNT  BURY  (Earl 
of  Albemarle),  K.C.M.G.,  and  G. 
LACY  HILLIER.  With  89  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  8vo. ,  ios.  6d. 

DRIVING.  By  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT. 
With  65  Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo. ,  ios.  €>d. 

FENCING,  BOXING.  AND  WREST- 
LING. By  WALTER  H.  POLLOCK,  F. 
C.  GROVE.  C.  PREVOST,  E.  B.  MITCHELL, 
and  WALTER  ARMSTRONG.  With  42 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. ,  ios.  6d. 

FISHING.  By  H.  CHOLMONDELEY-PEN- 
NELL.  With  Contributions  by  the 
MARQUIS  OF  EXETER,  HENRY  R. 
FRANCIS,  R.  B.  MARSTON,  &c. 
Vol.  I.  Salmon,  Trout,  and  Grayling. 
With  158  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo., 

Vol.  II.  Pike  and  other  Coarse  Fish. 
With  133  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo., 
ios.  6d. 

GOLF.  By  HORACE  G.  HUTCHINSON, 
the  Rt.  Hon.  A.  J.  BALFOUR,  M.P., 
Sir  W.  G.  SIMPSON,  Bart.,  ANDREW 
LANG,  and  other  Writers.  With  91 
Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  ios.  6d. 

HUNTING.  By  the  DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT, 
K.G.,  and  MOWBRAY  MORRIS.  With 
Contributions  by  the  EARL  OF  SVF- 
FOLK  AND  BERKSHIRE,  Rev.  E.  W.  L 
DAVIES.  With  53  Illustrations.  Crown 
Svo.,  lor.  6d. 


RACING  AND  STEEPLE-CHASING. 
Racing:  By  the  EARL  OF  SUFFOLK  AND 
BERKSHIRE  and  W.  G.  CRAVEN. 
With  a  Contribution  by  the  Hon.  F. 
LAWLEY.  Steeple-chasing  :  By  ARTHUR 
COVENTRY  and  ALFRED  E.  T.  WAT- 
SON. With  58  Illusts.  Cr.  8vo.,  105. 6d. 

RIDING  AND  POLO.  By  Captain 
ROBERT  WEIR,  J.  MORAY  BROWN,  the 
DUKE  OF  BEAUFORT,  K.G. ,  the  EARL 
of  SUFFOLK  AND  BERKSHIRE,  &c.  With 
59  Illustrations.  Cr.  Svo. ,  los.  (>d. 

SHOOTING.      By  Lord  WALSINGHAM 
and    Sir    RALPH     PAYNE-GALLWEY, 
Bart.      With    Contributions    by    LORD 
LOVAT,  A.  J.  STUART- WORTLEY,  &c. 
Vol.  I.   Field   and   Covert.     With   105 

Illustrations.      Crown  8vo.,    los.   6d. 
Vol.   II.    Moor  and  Marsh.     With  65 

Illustrations.     Cr.  8vo.,  los.  6d. 

SKATING,  CURLING,  TOBOGA- 
NING,  AND  OTHER  ICE  SPORTS. 
By  JN.  M.  HEATHCOTE,  C.  G.  TEBBUTT, 
T.  MAXWELL  WITHAM,  &c.  With  284 
Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  ioj.  6d. 

SWIMMING.  By  ARCHIBALD  SINCLAIR 
and  WILLIAM  HENRY,  lion.  Sees,  of 
the  Life  Saving  Society.  With  119 
Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  IDS.  6d. 

TENNIS,  LAWN  TENNIS,  RAC- 
QUETS, AND  FIVES.  By  J.  M.  and 
C.  G.  HEATHCOTE,  E.  O.  PLEYUELL- 
BOUVERIE  and  A.  C.  AINGER.  With 
Contributions  by  the  Hon.  A.  LYTTEL- 
TON, W.  C.  MARSHALL,  Miss  L.  DOD, 

H.       W.      W.     WlLBERFORCE,      H.      F. 

LAWFORD,  &c.  With  79  Illustrations. 
Crown  STO.  ,  ioj.  6d. 

YACHTING.  By  the  EARL  OF  PEMBROKE, 
R.  T.  PRITCHETT,  the  MARQUIS  OF 

DUFFERIN     AND     AVA,     the     EARL     OF 

ONSLOW,  I.ORD  BRASSEY,  Lieut. -Col. 
BUCKNILL,  LEWIS  HERRESHOFF,  G.  L. 
WATSON,  E.  F.  KNIGHT,  etc.  With 
Illustrations  by  R.  T.  PRITCHETT,  and 
from  Photographs.  2  vols.  los.  6d. ,  each. 


LONGMANS  &>  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


Sport  and  Pastime— continued. 
FUR  AND   FEATHER   SERIES. 

Edited  by  A.  E.  T.  WATSON. 


THE  PARTRIDGE.  Natural  History, 
by  the  Rev.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON; 
Shooting,  by  A.  J.  STUART- WORTLEY  ; 
Cookery,  by  GEORGE  SAINTSBURY. 
With  ii  full-page  Illustrations  and 
Vignette  by  A.  THORBURN,  A.  J. 
STUART-WORTLEY,  and  C.  WHYMPER, 
and  15  Diagrams  in  the  Text  by  A.  J. 
STUART-WORTLEY.  Crown  8vo. ,  y. 


THE  PHEASANT.  By  A.  T.  STUART- 
WORTLEY,  the  Rev.  H.  A.  MACPHERSON, 
and  A.  J.  INNES  SHAND. 

[/«  preparation. 

THE  HARE  AND  THE  RABBIT.  By 
the  Hon.  GERALD  LASCELLES,  &c. 

[/«  preparation. 


THE    GROUSE.      By  A.   J.    STUART-    WILDFOWL.  By  the  Hon.  JOHN  SCOTT- 

WORTLEY,  the  Rev.  H.  A.  MACPHER- I      MONTAGU,  M. P.,  &c.    Illustrated  by  A. 

SON,  and  GEORGE  SAINTSBURY.  J.  STUART  WORTLEY,  A.  THORBURN, 

[/« preparation,  i      and  others.  [/»  preparation. 


Campbell- Walker. —THE  CORRECT 
CARD :  or,  How  to  Play  at  Whist ;  a 
Whist  Catechism.  By  Major  A.  CAMP- 
BELL-WALKER. Fcp.  8vo.,  2S.  6d. 

DEAD  SHOT  (THE) :  or,  Sportsman's 
Complete  Guide.  Being  a  Treatise  on 
the  Use  of  the  Gun,  with  Rudimentary 
and  Finishing  Lessons  on  the  Art  of 
Shooting  Game  of  all  kinds.  By 
MARKSMAN.  Crown  8vo.,  ios.  6d. 

Falkener.— GAMES,  ANCIENT  AND  ORI- 
ENTAL, AND  How  TO  PLAY  THEM. 
By  EDWARD  FALKENER.  With  nume- 
rous Photographs,  Diagrams,  &c.  8vo. , 

2IS. 

Ford.— THE  THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF 
ARCHERY.  BY  HORACE  FORD.  New 
Edition,  thoroughly  Revised  and  Re- 
written by  W.  BUTT,  M.  A.  With  a  Pre- 
face by  C.  J.  LONGMAN,  M.A.  8vo.,  14^. 

F  o  w  1  e  r. — RECOLLECTIONS  OF  OLD 
COUNTRY  LIFE.  By  J.  K.  FOWLER 
("  Rusticus  "),  formerly  of  Aylesbury. 
With  Portraits,  &c.  8vo.,  ios.  6d. 

Francis. — A  BOOK  ON  ANGLING:  or, 
Treatise  on  the  Art  of  Fishing  in  every 
Branch ;  including  full  Illustrated  List 
of  Salmon  Flies.  By  FRANCIS  FRANCIS. 
With  Coloured  Plates.  Cr.  8vo.,  i>r. 

Hawker.— THE  DIARY  OF  COLONEL 
PETER  HAWKER,  author  of  "Instruc- 
tions to  Young  Sportsmen  ".  With  an 
Introduction  by  Sir  RALPH  PAYNE- 
GALL  WEY,  Bart.  2  vols.  8vo.,  yu. 

Hopkins.— FISHING  REMINISCENCES. 
By  Major  E.  P.  HOPKINS.  With  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  8vo. ,  6s.  6d. 

Liang.  —  ANGLING  SKETCHES.  By 
ANDREW  LANG.  With  20  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo. ,  7S.  6d. 


Longman.— CHESS  OPENINGS.  By 
FRED.  W.  LONGMAN.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 

Maskelyne. — SHARPS  AND  FLATS  :  a 
Complete  Revelation  of  the  Secrets  ol 
Cheating  at  Games  of  Chance  and  Skill. 
By  JOHN  NEVIL  MASKELYNE.  With 
62  Illustrations  and  Diagrams.  Crown 
8vo.,  6s. 

Pay  ne-Gallwey.  —  Works     by     Sir 
RALPH  PAYNE-GALLWEY,  Bart. 
LETTERS  TO  YOUNG  SHOOTERS  (First 
Series).     On  the  Choice  and  Use  of  a 
Gun.    With  41  Illustrations.    Cr.  8vo. , 
^s.  6d. 

LETTERSTO  YOUNG  SHOOTERS.  (Second 
Series).    On  the  Production,  Preserva- 
tion, and  Killingof  Game.  With  Direc- 
tions in  Shooting  Wood- Pigeons  and 
Breaking-in    Retrievers.       With    103 
Illustrations.      Crown   8vo.,    izs.  6d. 
Pole. — THE  THEORY  OF  THE  MODERN 
SCIENTIFIC  GAME  OF  WHIST.     By  W. 
POLE,  F.R.S.     Fcp.  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 
Proctor. — Works     by     RICHARD     A. 
PROCTOR. 

How  TO  PLAY  WHIST  :  WITH  THE 
LAWS  AND  ETIQUETTE  OF  WHIST. 
Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

HOME  WHIST  :  an  Easy  Guide  to  Cor- 
rect Play.    i6mo. ,  is. 
Ronalds.— THE   FLY-FISHER'S  ENTO- 
MOLOGY.   By  ALFRED  RONALDS.   With 
20  Coloured  Plates.     8vo.,  145. 
Wilcocks.  THE  SEA  FISHERMAN  :  Com- 
prising the  Chief  Methods  of  Hook  and 
Line  Fishing  in  the  British  and  other 
Seas,  and  Remarks  on  Nets,  Boats,  and 
Boating.  ByJ.  C.WiLCOCKS.  Illustrated, 
Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 


LONGMANS  &•  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS.         9 


Mental,  Moral,  and  Political  Philosophy. 

LOGIC,  RHETORIC,  PSYCHOLOGY,  ETC. 


Abbott.— THE  ELEMENTS  OF  LOGIC.  By 
T.  K.  ABBOTT,  B.D.     i2mo. ,  y. 

Aristotle. — Works  by. 

THE  POLITICS  :  G.  Bekker's  Greek  Text 
of  Books  I.,  III.,  IV.  (VII.).  with  an 
English  Translation  by  W.  E.  BOL- 
LAND,  M.A.  ;  and  short  Introductory 
Essays  by  A.  LANG,  M.A.  Crown  j 
8vo. ,  75.  6d. 

THE  POLITICS:  Introductory  Essays. 
By  ANDREW  LANG  (from  Bolland  and 
Lang's  'Politics').  Cr.  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 

THE  ETHICS:  Greek  Text,  Illustrated 
with  Essay  and  Notes.  By  Sir  ALEX- 
ANDER GRANT,  Bart.  2  vols.  8vo  , 

THE  NICOMACHEAN  ETHICS  :  Newly 
Translated  into  English.  By  ROBERT 
WILLIAMS  Crown  8vo.,  75.  6d. 

AN  INTRODUCTION  TO  ARISTOTLE'S 
ETHICS.  Books  I.-IV.  (BpokX.  c. 
vi.-ix.  in  an  Appendix.)  With  a  con- 
tinuous Analysis  and  Notes.  Intended 
for  the  use  of  Beginners  and  Junior 
Students.  By  the  Rev.  EDWARD 
MOORE,  D.D.,  Principal  of  St. 
Edmund  Hall,  and  late  Fellow  and 
Tutor  of  Queen's  College,  Oxford. 
Crown  8vo. ,  los.  6d. 

Bacon. — Works  by. 

COMPLETE  WORKS.  Edited  by  R  L. 
ELLIS,  J.  SPEDDING,  and  D.  D. 
HEATH.  7  vols.  8vo.,  £3  135.  6d. 

THE  ESSAYS:  with  Annotations.  By 
RICHARD  WHATELY,  D.D.  8vo. 
i  or.  6d. 

Bain. — Works   by  ALEXANDER    BAIN, 
LL.D. 

MENTAL  SCIENCE.    Crown  8vo. ,  6s.  6d. 

MORAL  SCIENCE.     Crown  8vo.,  45.  6d. 

The  two  works  as  above  can  be  had  in  one  \ 

volume,  price  ios.  (id. 
SENSES  AND  THE  INTELLECT.  8vo. ,  15*. 
EMOTIONS  AND  THE  WILL.    8vo.,  155. 

LOGIC,  DEDUCTIVE  AND  INDUCTIVE. 
PartI.,4J.  Part  II.,  6s.  6d. 

PRACTICAL  ESSAYS.     Crown  8vo. ,  zs. 


Bray.— Works  by  CHARLES  BRAY. 

THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  NECESSITY  :  or 
Law  in  Mind  as  in  Matter.  Cr.  8vo.,5J. 

THE  EDUCATION  OF  THE  FEELINGS  :  a 
Moral  Sysiem  for  Schools.  Crown 
8vo. ,  zs.  txl. 

Bray.— ELEMENTS  OF  MORALITY,  in 
Easy  Lessons  for  Home  and  School 
Teaching.  By  Mrs.  CHARLES  BRAY. 
Cr.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 

Crozier.— CIVILISATION  AND  PRO- 
GRESS. By  JOHN  BEATTIE  CROZIER, 
M.D.  With  New  Preface,  more  fully 
explaining  the  nature  of  the  New  Orga- 
non  used  in  the  solution  of  its  problems. 
8vo.,  I4S. 

Davidson. — THE  LOGIC  OF  DEFINI- 
TION, Explained  and  Applied.  By 
WILLIAM  L.  DAVIDSON,  M.A.  Crown 
8vo.,  6s. 

Green.— THE  WORKS  OF  THOMAS  HILL 
GREEN.  Edited  by  R.  L.  NETTLESHIP. 

Vols.  I.  and  II.  Philosophical  Works. 
8vo.,  id*,  each. 

Vol.  III.  Miscellanies.  With  Index  to 
the  three  Volumes,  and  Memoir.  8vo., 
zis, 

Hearn.— THE  ARYAN  HOUSEHOLD  :  its 
Structure  and  its  Development.  An 
Introduction  to  Comparative  Jurispru- 
dence. By  W.  EDWARD  HEARN. 
8vo.,  i6j. 

Hodgson. — Works  by  SHADWORTH  H. 
HODGSON. 

TIME  AND  SPACE:  a  Metaphysical 
Essay.  8vo. ,  i6s. 

THE  THEORY  OF  PRACTICE  :  an  Ethical 
Inquiry.  2  vols.  8vo. ,  245. 

THE  PHILOSOPHY  OF  REFLECTION.  2 
vols.  8vo.,  zis. 

Hume. — THE  PHILOSOPHICAL  WORKS 
OF  DAVID  HUME.  Edited  by  T.  H. 
GREEN  and  T.  H.GROSE.  4vols.  8vo., 
5&r.  Or  separately,  Essays.  2  vols. 
28*.  Treatise  of  Human  Nature.  2 
vols.  28.?. 


io       LONGMANS  &•  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


Mental,  Moral  and  Political  Philosophy— continued. 

Mill. — Works  by  JOHN  STUART  MILL. 
A  SYSTEM  OF  LOGIC.     Cr.  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 
ON  LIBERTY.     Cr.  8vo. ,  is.  $d. 

ON  REPRESENTATIVE   GOVERNMENT. 
Crown  8vo. ,  zs. 


Johnstone. — A  SHORT  INTRODUCTION 
TO  THE  STUDY  OF  LOGIC.  By  LAU- 
RENCE JOHNSTONE.  With  Questions. 
Cr.  8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 


Jones.  —  AN  INTRODUCTION  TO  GENE- 
RAL LOGIC.  By  E.  E.  CONSTANCE 
JONES,  Author  of  '  Elements  of  Logic  as 
a  Science  of  Propositions  '.  Cr.  8vo.  , 


Justinian.—  THE  INSTITUTES  OF  JUS- 
TINIAN :  Latin  Text,  chiefly  that  of 
Huschke,  with  English  Introduction, 
Translation,  Notes,  and  Summary.  By 
THOMAS  C.  SANDARS,  M.A.  8vo.  i8.f. 

Kant.  —  Works  by  IMMANUEL  KANT. 

CRITIQUE  OF  PRACTICAL  REASON,  AND 

OTH/.R  WORKS  ON  THE  THEORY  OF 

Ex  ucs.  Translated  by  T.  K.  ABBOTT, 

13.  D.     With  Memoir.     8vo.,  i2s.  6d. 

INTRODUCTION  TO    LOGIC,  AND   HIS 

ESSAY  ON  THE  MISTAKEN  SUBTILTY 

OF  THE  FOUR  FIGURES.     Translated 

by  T.  K.  ABBOTT,  and  with  Notes  by 

S.  T.  COLERIDGE.     8vo.  ,  6s. 

Killiek.  —  HANDBOOK  TO  MILL'S  SYS- 
TEM OF  LOGIC.  By  Rev.  A.  H.  KIL- 
LICK, M.A.  Crown  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

Ladd.—  Works  by  GEORGE  TURNBULL 

LADD. 

ELEMENTS  OF  PHYSIOLOGICAL  PSY- 
CHOLOGY. 8vo.,  2is. 

OUTLINES  OF  PHYSIOLOGICAL  PSY- 
CHOLOGY. A  Text-Book  of  Mental 
Science  for  Academies  and  Colleges. 
8vo.  ,  izs. 

PSYCHOLOGY,  DESCRIPTIVE  AND  EX- 
PLANATORY :  a  Treatise  of  the  Pheno- 
mena, Laws,  and  Development  of 
Human  Mental  Life.  8vo.,  2is. 

Lewes.—  THE  HISTORY  OF  PHILOSOPHY, 
from  Thales  to  Comte.  By  GEORGE 
HENRY  LEWES.  2  vols.  8vo.  ,  325. 

Max  Muller.—  Works  by  F.  MAxMuL- 
LER. 

THE  SCIENCE  OF  THOUGHT.    8vo.  ,  2 

THREE  INTRODUCTORY  LECTURES  ON 

THE  SCIENCE  OF  THOUGHT.     8vo., 

2s.  6d. 

Mill.  —  ANALYSIS  OF  THE  PHENOMENA 
OF  THE  HUMAN  MIND.  By  JAMES 
MILL.  2  vols.  8vo.,  28^. 


UTILITARIANISM.    8vo.,  y. 

EXAMINATION      OF     SIR     WILLIAM 
HAMILTON'S  PHILOSOPHY.   8vo.,i6j. 

NATURE,  THE  UTILITY  OF  RELIGION, 
AND  THEISM.  Three  Essays.  8\o.,y, 

Monck.  —  INTRODUCTION  TO  LOGIC. 
By  H.  S.  MONCK.  Crown  8vo.  ,  55. 

Bibot.—  THE  PSYCHOLOGY  OF  ATTEN- 
TION. By  TH.  RIBOT.  Cr.  8vo.  ,  3^. 

Sidgwick.—  DISTINCTION  :  and  the 
Criticism  of  Belief.  By  ALFRED  SlDG- 
WICK.  Crown  8vo.  ,  6s. 

Stock.—  DEDUCTIVE  LOGIC.  By  ST. 
GEORGE  STOCK.  Fcp.  8vo.,  35.  6d. 

Sully.  —  Works  by  JAMES  SULLY,  Grotc 
Professor  of  Mind  and  Logic  at  Univer- 
sity College,  London. 


THE  HUMAN  MIND  : 
Psychology.     2  vols. 


Text-book  of 
8vo.  ,  2is. 


OUTLINES  OF  PSYCHOLOGY.     8vo.,  QJ. 

THE  TEACHER'S  HANDBOOK  OF  PSY- 
CHOLOGY.    Crown  8vo.  ,  5^. 

Swinburne.  —  PICTURE  LOGIC  :  an 
Attempt  to  Popularise  the  Science  of 
Reasoning.  By  ALFRED  JAMES  SWIN- 
BURNE, M.A.  With  23  Woodcuts. 
Post  8vo.  ,  $s. 


Thompson.— Works       by 
GREENLEAF  THOMPSON. 


DANIEL 


A  SYSTEM  OF  PSYCHOLOGY.  2  vols. 
8vo. ,  36^. 

THE  RELIGIOUS  SENTIMENTS  OF  THE 
HUMAN  MIND.  8vo..  75.  6d. 

THE  PROBLEM  OF  EVIL  :  an  Introduc- 
tion to  the  Practical  Sciences.  8vo. , 
IQS.  6d. 


LO.VG.1fA.VS  &>  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS.       n 


Mental,  Moral  and  Political  Philosophy — continued. 

Thompson.  —  Works      by     DANIEL  ' 


GREENLEAF  THOMPSON — continued. 
SOCIAL  PROGRESS.     8vo.,  ^s.  dd. 

THE    PHILOSOPHY    OF    FICTION    IN 
LITERATURE.    Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 

Thomson. — OUTLINES  OF  THE  NECES- 
SARY LAWS  OF  THOUGHT:  a  Treatise 
on  Pure  and  Applied  Logic.  By  WIL- 
LIAM THOMSON,  D.D.,  formerly  Lord 
Archbishop  of  York.  Post  8vo. ,  6s. 

Webb. — THE  VEIL  OF  Isis :  a  Series  of 
Essays  on  Idealism.  By  T.  E.  WEBB. 
8vo. ,  los.  6d. 

Whately.— Works  by  R.  WHATELY, 
formerly  Archbishop  of  Dublin. 

BACON'S    ESSAYS.     With    Annotation. 
By  R.  WHATELY.     8vo.,  los.  6d. 

ELEMENTS  OF  LOGIC.     Cr.  8vo.,4J.  6d. 

ELEMENTS  OF  RHETORIC.    Cr.   8vo., 
4^.  6d. 

LESSONS  ON  REASONING.    Fcp.  8vo., 
is.  6d. 


Zeller. — Works  by  Dr.  EDWARD  ZEL- 
LER,  Professor  in  the  University  ol 
Berlin. 

HISTORY  OF  ECLECTICISM  IN  GREEK 
PHILOSOPHY.  Translated  by  SARAH 
F.  ALLEYNE.  Cr.  8vo.,  icu.  6d. 

THE  STOICS,  EPICUREANS,  AND  SCEP- 
TICS. Translated  by  the  Rev.  O.  J. 
REICHEL,  M.A.  Crown  8vo.,  151. 

OUTLINES  OF  THE  HISTORY  OF  GREEK 
PHILOSOPHY.  Translated  by  SARAH 
F.  ALLEYNE  and  EVELYN  ABBOTT. 
Crown  8vo.,  los.  6d. 

PLATO  AND  THE  OLDER  ACADEMY. 
Translated  by  SARAH  F.  ALLEYNE 
and  ALFRED  GOODWIN,  B.  A.  Crown 
8vo.,  i8s. 

SOCRATES  AND  THE  SOCRATICSCHOOLS. 
Translated  by  the  Rev.  O.  J.  REICHEL, 
M.A.  Crown  8vo. ,  IQJ.  6d. 

THE  PRE-SOCRATIC  SCHOOLS:  a  His- 
tory of  Greek  Philosophy  from  the 
Earliest  Period  to  the  time  of  Socrates. 
Translated  by  SARAH  F.  ALLEYNE. 
2  vols.  Crown  8vo. ,  301. 


MANUALS  OF  CATHOLIC  PHILOSOPHY. 

( Stonyhurst  Series.) 


A  MANUAL   OF   POLITICAL  ECONOMY. 

By  C.  S.  DEVAS,  M.A.     Cr.  8vo.,  dr.  6d. 
FIRST  PRINCIPLES  OF  KNOWLEDGE.     By 

JOHN  RICKABY,  S.J.     Crown  8vo.,  55. 

GENERAL  METAPHYSICS.  By  JOHN  RICK- 
ABY, S.J.  Crown  8vo.,  ST. 

LOGIC.  By  RICHARD  F.  CLARKE,  S.J. 
Crown  3vo.,  5*. 


MORAL  PHILOSOPHY  (ETHICS  AND  NATU- 
RAL LAW).  By  JOSEPH  RICKABY,  S.J. 
Crown  8vo.,  51. 

NATURAL  THEOLOGY.  By  BERNARD 
BOEDDER,  S.J.  Crown  8vo.,  6s.  6d. 

PSYCHOLOGY.  By  MICHAEL  MAKER, 
S.J.  Crown  8vo. ,  6s.  6d. 


History  and  Science  of  Language,  &c. 

Davidson. — LEADING  AND  IMPORTANT  ,  Graham. — ENGLISH  SYNONYMS,  Class!- 
ENGLISH  WORDS  :  Explained  and  Ex-  fied  and  Explained  :  with  Practical 
emplified.  By  WILLIAM  L.  DAVID-  Exercises.  By  G.  F.  GRAHAM.  Fcp. 
SON,  M.A.  Fcp.  8vo.,  y.  6d.  8vo.,  6s. 

Farrar. — LANGUAGE  AND  LANGUAGES: 
By  F.  W.  FARRAR,  D.D.,  F.R.S.,  Cr. 
8vo. ,  6s. 


ia       LONGMANS  &>  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


History  and  Science  of  Language,  &c. — continued. 


Max    Miiller.— Works   by    F.    MAX 

MULLER. 

SELECTED  ESSAYS  ON  LANGUAGE, 
MYTHOLOGY,  AND  RELIGION.  2  vols. 
Crown  8vo.,  16-:. 

THE  SCIENCE  OF  LANGUAGE,  Founded 
on  Lectures  delivered  at  the  Royal 
Institution  in  1861  and  1863.  2  vols. 
Crown  8vo. ,  2is. 

BIOGRAPHIES  OF  WORDS,  AND  THE 
HOME  OF  THE  ARYAS.  Crown  8vo. , 
75.  6d. 

THREE  LECTURES  ON  THE  SCIENCE 
OF  LANGUAGE,  AND  ITS  PLACE  IN 
GENERAL  EDUCATION,  delivered  at 
Oxford,  1889.  Crown  8vo.,  y. 


Roget.  —  THESAURUS  OF  ENGLISH 
WORDS  AND  PHRASES.  Classified  and 
Arranged  so  as  to  Facilitate  the  Ex- 
pression of  Ideas  and  assist  in  Literary 
Composition.  By  PETER  MARK  ROGET, 
M.D.,  F.R.S.  Recom posed  throughout, 
enlarged  and  improved,  partly  from  the 
Author's  Notes,  and  with  a  full  Index, 
by  the  Author's  Son,  JOHN  LEWIS 
ROGET.  Crown  8vo..  IQJ.  6d. 

Whately.— ENGLISH  SYNONYMS.  By 
E.  JANE  WHATELY.  Fcp.  8vo.,  3*. 


Political  Economy  and  Economics. 


Ashley. — ENGLISH  ECONOMIC  HISTORY 
AND  THEORY.  By  W.  J.  ASHLEY, 
M.A.  Crown  8vo.,  Part  I.,  y.  Part 
II.,  IQS.  6d. 

Bagehot.  —  ECONOMIC  STUDIES.  By 
WALTER  BAGEHOT.  8vo. ,  ioj.  6d. 

Crump. — AN  INVESTIGATION  INTO  THE 
CAUSES  OF  THE  GREAT  FALL  IN  PRICES 
which  took  place  coincidently  with  the 
Demonetisation  of  Silver  by  Germany. 
By  ARTHUR  CRUMP.  8vo.,  6s. 

Devas.— A  MANUAL  OF  POLITICAL 
ECONOMY.  By  C.  S.  DEVAS,  M.A. 
Crown  8vo. ,  6s.  6d.  (Manuals of  Catholic 
Philosophy. ) 

Dowell. — A  HISTORY  OF  TAXATION 
AND  TAXES  IN  ENGLAND,  from  the 
Earliest  Times  to  the  Year  1885.  By 
STEPHEN  DOWELL  4  vols.  8vo. )  Vols. 
I.  and  II.  The  History  of  Taxation, 
sis.  Vols.  III.  and  IV.  The  History  of 
Taxes,  au. 

Jordan. — THE  STANDARD  OF  VALUE. 
By  WILLIAM  LEIGHTON  JORDAN.  8vo., 
6s. 

"Leslie. — ESSAYS  IN  POLITICAL  ECON- 
OMY. By  T.  E.  CLIFFE  LESLIE.  8vo. , 

IOJ.  6d 


Macleod.  —  Works  by  HENRY  DUNNING 
MACLEOD,  M.A. 

THE  ELEMENTS  OF  BANKING.  Crown 
8vo.,  y.  6d. 

THE  THEORY  AND  PRACTICE  OF  BANK- 
ING. VoL  I.  8vo.,  125.  Vol.  II. 
i4s. 

THE  THEORY  OF  CREDIT.  8vo.  VoL 
I.  ios.  net.  Vol.  II.,  Part  I.,  4*.  6d. 
Vol.  II.  Part  II.,  ICM.  6d. 

Meath.—  PROSPERITY  OR  PAUPERISM? 
Physical,  Industrial,  and  Technical 
Training.  By  the  EARL  OF  MEATH. 
8vo.,  ST. 

Mill.—  POLITICAL  ECONOMY.  By  JOHN 
STUART  MILL. 

Library  Edition.     2  vols.     8vo.  ,  301. 
Popular   Edition,     Crown  8vo., 


Shirres.  —  AN  ANALYSIS  OF  THE  IDEAS 
OF  ECONOMICS.  By  L.  P.  SHIRRES, 
B.  A.  ,  sometime  Finance  Undersecretary 
of  the  Government  of  Bengal.  Crown 
8vo.,  6s. 


LONGMANS  &  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORK'S.       13 


Political  Economy  and  Economics— continued. 


Symes. — POLITICAL  ECONOMY  :  a  Short 
Text-book  of  Political  Economy.  \Yith 
Problems  for  Solution,  and  Hints  for 
Supplementary  Reading.  By  J.  E. 
SYMES,  M.A.,  of  University  College, 
Nottingham.  Crown  8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 

Toynbee.— LECTURES  ON  THE  IN- 
DUSTRIAL REVOLUTION  OF  THE  i8th 
CENTURY  IN  ENGLAND.  By  ARNOLD 
TOYNBEE.  8vo. ,  ids.  6d. 

Webb. — THE  HISTORY  OF  TRADE 
UNIONISM.  By  SIDNEY  and  BEATRICE 
WEBB.  8vo.,  i8s. 


Wilson.— Works  by  A.  J.  WILSON. 
Chiefly  reprinted  from  The  /nvtstors' 
Review. 

PRACTICAL    HINTS    TO    SMALL    IN- 
VESTORS.    Crown  8vo. ,  is. 

PLAIN  ADVICE  ABOUT  LIFE  INSURANCE. 
Crown  8vo.,  is. 

Wolff.— PEOPLE'S  BANKS  -.  a  Record  ot 
Social  and  Economic  Success.  By 
HENRY  W.  WOLFF.  8vo. ,  -js.  6d. 


Evolution,  Anthropology,  &c. 


Clodd.— THE  STORY  OF  CREATION  :  a 
Plain  Account  of  Evolution.  By 
EDWARD  CLODD.  With  77  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

Huth.— THE  MARRIAGE  OF  NEAR  KIN. 
considered  with  Respect  to  the  Law  of 
Nations,  the  Result  of  Experience,  and 
the  Teachings  of  Biology.  By  ALFRED 
HENRY  HUTH.  Royal  8vo. ,  -js.  6d. 

Lang. — CUSTOM  AND  MYTH  :  Studies 
of  Early  Usage  and  Belief.  By  ANDREW 
LANG,  M.A.  With  15  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 


Lubbock. — THE  ORIGIN  OF  CIVILISA- 
TION and  the  Primitive  Condition  of 
Man.  By  SirJ.  LUBBOCK,  Bart.,  M.P. 
With  5  Plates  and  20  Illustrations  in  the 
Text.  8vo.  i8j. 

Romanes.— Works  by  GEORGE  JOHN 
ROMANES,  M.A.,  LL.D.,  F.R.S. 
DARWIN,  AND  AFTER  DARWIN  :  an  Ex- 
position  of    the   Darwinian    Theory, 
and  a  Discussion  on  Post-Darwinian 
Questions.     Part   I.    The   Darwinian 
Theory.      With   Portrait   of  Darwin 
and  125  Illustrations.      Crown  8vo., 
IOT.  6d. 

AN  EXAMINATION  OF  WEISMANNISU. 
Crown  8vo. ,  6f. 


Classical  Literature. 


Abbott.— HELLENICA.  A  Collection  of 
Essays  on  Greek  Poetry,  Philosophy, 
History,  and  Religion.  Edited  by 
EVELYN  ABBOTT,  M.A.,  LL.D.  8vo., 
idr. 

JEsChylUS. — EUMENIDES  OF  AESCHY- 
LUS. With  Metrical  English  Translation. 
By  J.  F.  DAVIES.  8vo.,  js. 

Aristophanes.— The  ACHARNIANS  OF 
ARISTOPHANES,  translated  into  English 
Verse.  By  R.  Y.  TYRRELL.  Crown 
8vo.,  is. 

Becker.— Works  by  Professor  BECKER. 
GALLUS  :  or,  Roman  Scenes  in  the  Time 
of  Augustus.     Illustrated.    Post  8vo. , 
75.  6d. 

CHARICLES  :  or,  Illustrations  cf  the 
Private  Life  of  the  Ancient  Greeks. 
Illustrated.  Post  8vo. ,  75.  6d. 


Cicero.— CICERO'S  CORRESPONDENCE. 
By  R.  Y.  TYRRELL.  Vols.  I..  II.,  Ul. 
8vo. ,  each  lar. 

Clerke. — FAMILIAR  STUDIES  IN  HOMER. 
By  AGNES  M.  CLERKE.  Cr.  8vo. ,  ^s.  bd. 

Farnell. — GREEK  LYRIC  POETRY:  a 
Complete  Collection  of  the  Surviving 
Passages  from  the  Greek  Song- Writing. 
Arranged  with  Prefatory  Articles,  In- 
troductory Matter  and  Commentary.  By 
GEORGE  S.  FARNELL,  M.A.  With  5 
Plates.  8vo.,  i6s. 

Harrison.— MYTHS  OF  THE  ODYSSEY. 
IN  ART  AND  LITERATURE.  By  JANU 
E.  HARRISON.  Illustrated  with  Oui- 
line  Drawings.  8vo. ,  i8s. 

Lang.— HOMER  AND  THE  EPIC.  By 
ANDREW  LANG.  Crown  8vo. ,  9*.  net. 


i4       LONGMANS  fr  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


Classical  Literature — continued. 


Mackail. — SELF.CT  EPIGRAMS  FROM 
THE  GREEK  ANTHOLOGY.  By  J.  W. 
MACKAIL,  Fellow  OF  Balliol  College, 
Oxford.  Edited  with  a  Revised  Text, 
Introduction,  Translation,  and  Notes. 
8vo. ,  i6s. 

Plato.— PARMENIDES  OF  PLATO,  Text, 
with  Introduction,  Analysis,  &c.  By  T. 
MAGUIRE.  8vo. ,  75.  6d. 

Rich. — A  DICTIONARY  OF  ROMAN  AND 
GREEK  ANTIQUITIES.  By  A.  RICH, 
B.A.  With  2000  Woodcuts.  Crown 
8vo. ,  js.  (>d . 

Sophocles. — Translated  into  English 
Verse.  By  ROBERT  WHITELAW,  M.  A. , 
Assistant  Master  in  Rugby  School :  late 
Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge. 
Crown  8vo.,  8.r.  6d. 

Theocritus. — THE  IDYLLS  OF  THEO- 
CRITUS. Translated  into  English  Verse. 
By  JAMES  HENRY  HALLARD,  M.A 
Oxon.  8vo.,  6s.  6d. 


Tyrrell.  —  TRANSLATIONS  INTO  GREEK 
AND  LATIN  VERSE.  Edited  by  R.  Y. 
TTRRELL.  8vo.,  6s. 

Virgil.—  THE^ENEID  OF  VIRGIL.  Trans- 
lated into  English  Verse  by  JOHN  CON- 
INGTON.  Crown  8vo.,  6s. 

THE  POEMS  OF  VIRGIL.  Translated 
into  English  Prose  by  JOHN  CONING- 
TON.  Crown  8vo.  ,  6.?. 

THE  ^ENEID  OF  VIRGIL,  freely  translated 
into  English  Blank  Verse.  By  W.  J. 
THORNHILL.  Crown  8vo.  ,  js.  6d. 

THE  /ENEID  OF  VIRGIL.  Books  I.  to 
VI.  Translated  into  English  Verse 
by  JAMES  RHOADES.  Crown  8vo., 


Wilkins.—  THE  GROWTH  OF  THE  HOM- 
ERIC POEMS.    By  G.  WILKINS.   8vo.  6s. 


Poetry  and  the  Drama. 


Allingham. — Works 

ALLINGHAM. 


by     WILLIAM 


IRISH  SONGS  AND  POEMS.  With  Fron- 
tispiece of  the  Waterfall  of  Asaroe. 
Fcp.  8vo.,  6s. 

LAURENCE  BLOOMFIF.LD.  With  Por- 
trait of  the  Author.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  35.  6d. 

FLOWER  PIECES;  DAY  AND  NIGHT 
SONGS  ;  BALLADS.  With  2  Designs 
by  D.  G.  ROSSETTI.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  6s. ; 
large  paper  edition,  125. 

LIFE  AND  PHANTASY  :  with  Frontis- 
piece by  Sir  J.  E.  MILLAIS,  Bart., 
and  Design  by  ARTHUR  HUGHES. 
Fcp.  8vo. ,  6s. ;  large  paper  edition,  izs. 

THOUGHT  AND  WORD,  AND  ASHBY 
MANOR  :  a  Play.  With  Portrait  of  the 
Author  (1865),  and  four  Theatrical 
Scenes  drawn  by  Mr.  Allingham.  Fcp. 
8vo. ,  6s. ;  large  paper  edition,  12s. 

BLACKBERRIES.     Imperial  i6mo. ,  6*. 

Sets  of  the  above  6  vols.  may  be  had  in 
uniform  half-parchment  binding,  price  305. 


Armstrong.— Works  by  G.  F.  SAVAGE- 
ARMSTRONG. 

POEMS  :   Lyrical  and  Dramatic.     Fcp. 
8vo. ,  6s. 

KING  SAUL.     (The  Tragedy  of  Israel, 
Part  I.)    Fcp.  8vo.  5?. 

KING  DAVID.     (The  Tragedy  of  Israel, 
Part  II. )     Fcp.  8vo. ,  6s. 

KING    SOLOMON.      (The    Tragedy  of 
Israel,  Part  III.)     Fcp.  8vo.,  6s. 

UGONE:  a  Tragedy.     Fcp.  8vo.,  6s. 

A  GARLAND  FROM  GREECE:  Poems. 
Fcp.  8vo. ,  7-r.  6d. 

STORIES  OF  WICKLOW:  Poems.     Fcp. 
8vo. ,  js.  6d. 

MEPHISTOPHELES  IN  BROADCLOTH:  a 
Satire.     Fcp.  8vo. ,  4^. 


ONE  IN  THE  INFINITE:  a  Poem. 
8vo.,  7.?.  6d. 


Cr. 


Armstrong.— THE  POETICAL  WORKS 
OF  EDMUND  J.  ARMSTRONG.  Fcp. 
8vo.,  £s. 


LONGMANS  &  COSS  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS.       15 


Poetry  and  the  Drama — continued. 


Arnold. — Works  by  Sir  EDWIN  ARNOLD, 
K.C.I.E.,  Author' of  'The  Light  of 
Asia,"  &c. 

THE  LIGHT  OF  THE  WORLD:  or,  the 
Great     Consummation.       A     Poem. 
Crown  8vo.,  75.  6d.  net. 
Presentation  Edition.     With  14  Illus- 
trations by  W.    HOLMAN   HUNT, 
&c.,  410.,  SOT.  net. 
POTIPHAR'S  WIFE,  and  other  Poems. 

Crown  8vo. ,  y.  net. 
ADZUMA  :   or,  the  Japanese  Wife.     A 

Play.     Crown  8vo.,  6s.  6d.  net. 
Barrow.— THE  SEVEN  CITIES  OF  THE 
DEAD,  and  other  Poems.     By  Sir  JOHN 
CROKER  BARROW,  Bart.     Fcp.  8vo.,  5*. 
Bell.— Works  by  Mrs.  HUGH  BELL. 
CHAMBER  COMEDIES  :   a  Collection  of 
Plays  and  Monologues  for  the  Draw- 
ing Room.     Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 
NURSERY    COMEDIES  :    Twelve    Tiny 
Plays  for  Children.    Fcp.  Svo. ,  i s.  6d. 
Bjbrnsen.— Works  by  BJORNSTJERNE 

BjORNSEN. 

PASTOR  SANG  :  a  Play.  Translated  by 
WILLIAM  WILSON.  Cr.  8vo.,  y. 

A  GAUNTLET  .  a  Drama.     Translated 

into  English  by  OSMAN  EDWARDS. 

With  Portrait  of  the  Author.     Crown 

8vo.,  y. 

Cochrane.— THE    KESTREL'S    NEST, 

and  other  Verses.     By  ALFRED  COCH- 

RANE.     Fcp.  Svo. ,  y.  6d. 
Dante. — LA  COMMEDIA  Di  DANTE.    A 

Xew   Text,    carefully  revised   with  the 

aid  of  the  most   recent  Editions    and 

Collations.     Small  8vo.,  dr. 
Goethe. 

FAUST,  Part  I.,  the  German  Text,  with 
Introduction  and  Notes.  By  ALBERT 
M.  SELSS,  Ph.D.,  M.A.  Cr.  8vo.,  y. 

FAUST.  Translated,  with  Notes.  By 
T.  E.  WEBB.  8vo.,  izs.  6d. 

FAUST.  The  First  Part.  A  New 
Translation,  chiefly  in  Blank  Verse ; 
with  Introduction  and  Notes.  By 
JAMES  ADEY  BIRDS.  Cr.  8vo.,  6s. 

FAUST.      The  Second   Part.      A   New 
Translation    in    Verse.       By    JAMES 
ADEY  BIRDS.     Crown  8vo.,  6s. 
Ingelow. — Works  by  JEAN  INGELOW. 
POETICAL  WORKS.    2  vols.    Fcp.  Svo. , 

I2S. 

LYRICAL  AND  OTHER  POEMS.  Selected 
from  the  Writings  of  JEAN  INGELOW. 
Fcp.  8vo.,  2s.  6d.  cloth  plain,  y. 
cloth  gilt. 


Lang.— Works  by  ANDREW  LANG. 
BAN  AND  ARRIERE  BAN.    A  Rally  of 
Fugitive    Rhymes.      Fcp.    8vo.,    5*. 

net. 

GRASS    OF    PARNASSUS.      Fcp.  8vo., 

vs.  6d.  net. 
BALLADS    OF    BOOKS.       Edited    by 

ANDREW  LANG.     Fcp.  Svo. ,  6s. 
THE  BLUE  POETRY  BOOK.     Edited  by 

ANDREW  LANG.    With  12  Plates  and 

88  Illustrations  in  the  Text     Crown 

Svo.,  6s. 

Sfecial  Edition,  printed  on  Indian 
paper.  With  Notes,  but  without 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. ,  -js.  6d. 

Lecky.— POEMS.    By  W.  E.  H.  LECKY. 
Fcp.  8vo.,  y. 

Leyton.— Works  by  FRANK  LEYTON. 
THE  SHADOWS   OF  THE   LAKE,  and 

other   Poems.      Crown   Svo. ,  "js.  6d. 

Cheap  Edition.     Crown  Svo. ,  y.  6d. 
SKELETON  LEAVES  :   Poems.     Crown 

Svo.,  6s. 

Lytton. — Works  by  THE  EARL  OF 
LYTTON  (OWEN  MEREDITH). 

KING  POPPY:  a  Fantasia.  With  i 
Plate  and  Design  on  Title-Page  by 
Sir  ED.  BURNE-JONES,  A.R.A.  Crown 
8vo. ,  iof.  6d. 

MAR  AH.     Fcp.  8vo.,  dr.  6d. 

THE  WANDERER.     Cr.  8vo.,  IQS.  6d. 

LuciLE.     Crown  8vo.,  IDS.  6d. 

SELECTED  POEMS.    Cr.  8vo.,  ios.  6d. 

Macaulay. — LAYS  OF  ANCIENT  ROME, 
&c.     By  Lord  MACAULAY. 
Illustrated  by  G.  SCHARF.     Fcp.  410., 

ios.  6d. 
Bijou      Edition. 

iSmo. ,  zs.  6d.,  gilt  top. 
Popular  Edition. 

Fcp.  410.,  6d.  sewed,  is.  cloth. 
Illustrated  by  J.  R.  WEGUELIN.    Crown 

Svo.,  3^.  6d. 
Annotated    Edition.       Fcp.     8vo.,     is. 

sewed,  is.  6d.  cloth. 


Nesbit.— LAYS  AND  LEGENDS,  by  E. 
NESBIT  (Mrs.  HUBERT  BLAND).  First 
Series.  Crown  Svo.,  y.  6d.  Second 
Series,  with  Portrait.  Crown  8vo.,  y. 

Piatt. — AN  ENCHANTED  CASTLE,  AND 
OTHER  POEMS  :  Pictures,  Portraits  and 
People  in  Ireland.  By  SARAH  PiATT. 
Crown  Svo.,  3^.  6d. 


16       LO.VG.VANS  &  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


Poetry  and  the  Drama— continued. 


Piatt. — Works  by  JOHN  JAMES  PIATT. 

IDYLS   AND    LYRICS   OF    THE    OHIO 
VALLEY.     Crown  8vo. ,  $s. 

LITTLE  NEW  WORLD  IDYLS.  Cr.  8vo. , 
5s- 

Rhoades. — TERESA  AND  OTHER 
POEMS.  By  JAMES  RHOADES.  Crown 
8vo.,  y.  6d. 

Riley. — Works  by  JAMES  WHITCOMB 
RILEY. 


POEMS  HERE  AT  HOME. 
6s.  net. 


Fcap.  8vo., 


OLD     FASHIONED 
i2mo.,  y. 


ROSES 


Poems. 


Roberts.  —  SONGS  OF  THE  COMMON 
DAY,  AND  AVE  :  an  Ode  for  the  Shelley 
Centenary.  By  CHARLES  G.  D. 
ROBERTS.  Crown  8vo.,  35.  6ct. 


Shakespeare.— BOWDLER'S  FAMILY 
SHAKESPEARE.  With  36  Woodcuts, 
i  vol.  8vo. ,  14*.  Or  in  6  vols.  Fcp. 
8vo. ,  2is. 


THE  SHAKESPEARE  BIRTHDAY  BOOK. 
By  MARY  F.  DUNBAR.  32010.,  is.  6d. 
Drawing-Room  Edition,  with  Photo- 
graphs. Fcp.  8vo. ,  IQS.  6d. 


Stevenson. — A  CHILD'S  GARDEN  OF 
VERSES.  By  ROBERT  Louis  STEVEN- 
SON. Small  fcp.  8vo. ,  y. 


Works  of  Fiction,  Humour,  &c. 


Anstey.— Works  by  F.  ANSTEY,  Author 
cf  '  Vice  Versa '. 

THE  BLACK  POODLE,  and  other  Stories. 
Crown  8vo. ,  zs.  boards,  zs.  6d.  cloth. 

VOCES  POPULI.  Reprinted  from 
'  Punch  '.  With  Illustrations  by  J. 
BERNARD  PARTRIDGE.  First  Series. 
Fcp.  410.,  y.  Second  Series.  Fcp. 
4to.F  6s. 

THE  TRAVELLING  COMPANIONS.  Re- 
printed from  'Punch'.  With  Ilius- 
trations  by  J.  BERNARD  PARTRIDGE. 
Post  410.,  5J. 

THE  MAN  FROM  BLANKLEY'S  :  a  Story 
in  Scenes,  and  other  Sketches.  With 
24  Illustrations  by  J.BERNARD  PART- 
RIDGE. Fcp.  410.,  6s. 

ATELIER  (THE)  DU  LYS:  or,  an  Art 
Student  in  the  Reign  of  Terror.  Crown 
8vo. ,  2s.  6d. 

BY  THE  SAME  AUTHOR. 

MADEMOISELLE  MORI:  a  Tale  of 
Modern  Rome.  Crown  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 


BY  THE  SAME  AUTHOR — continued. 

THAT  CHILD.  Illustrated  by  GORDON 
BROWNE.  Crown  8vo. ,  2s.  6d. 

UNDER  A  CLOUD.     Cr.  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 

THE  FIDDLER  OF  LUGAU.  With  Illus- 
trations by  W.  RALSTON.  Crown 
8vo.,  zs.  6d. 

A  CHILD  OF  THE  REVOLUTION.  With 
Illustrations  by  C.  J.  STANILAND. 
Crown  8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 

HESTER'S  VENTURE  :  a  Novel.  Crown 
8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 

IN  THE  OLDEN  TIME  :  a  Tale  of  the 
Peasant  War  in  Germany.  Crown 
8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 


THE  YOUNGER  SISTER  :  a  Tale. 
8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 


Cr. 


Baker.— BY  THE  WESTERN  SEA.  By 
JAMES  BAKER,  Author  of  '  John  Westa- 
cott '.  Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 


LONGMANS  &•  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS.       17 


Works  of  Fiction,  Humour,  &c. — continued. 


Beaconsfleld.— Works  by  the  Earl  of 

BEACONSFIELD. 

NOVELS  AND  TALES.  Cheap  Edition. 
Complete  in  n  vols.  Cr.  8vo. ,  u.  6d. 
each. 

Vivian  Grey.  Contarini    Fleming, 

The    Young  Duke,         &c. 

&c.  Venetia.     Tancred. 

Alroy,  Ixion,  &c.          Coningsby.      Sybil. 
Henrietta  Temple.       Lothair.  Endymion. 

NOVELS  AND  TALES.  The  Hughenden 
Edition.  With  2  Portraits  and  n 
Vignettes,  n  vols.  Cr.  8vo.,  42^. 

Comyn.— ATHERSTONE  PRIORY  :  a 
Tale.  By  L.  N.  COMYN.  Crown 
8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 

Deland. — Works  by  MARGARET    DE- 
LAND,  Author  of  '  John  Ward  '. 
THE  STORY  OF  A  CHILD.    Cr.  8vo.,  5*. 
MR.  TOMMY  DOVE,  and  other  Stories. 
Crown  8vo. ,  65. 

Dougall. — Works  by  L.  DOUGALL. 
BEGGARS  ALL.    Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 
WHAT    NECESSITY    KNOWS.     Crown 
8vo.,  6s. 

Doyle.— Works  by  A.  CONAN  DOYLE. 
MICAH  CLARKE  :  a  Tale  of  Monmouth's 
Rebellion.      With    Frontispiece    and 
Vignette.     Cr.  8vo.,  3*.  6d. 
THE  CAPTAIN  OF  THE  POLESTAR,  and 

other  Tales.     Cr.  8vo. ,  3J.  6d. 
THE  REFUGEES  :  a  Tale  of  Two  Con- 
tinents.    Cr.  8vo. ,  6s. 
Farrar. — DARKNESS  AND  DAWN:  or, 
Scenes  in  the  Days  of  Nero.    An  His- 
toric Tale.     By  Archdeacon  FARRAR. 
Cr.  8vo. ,  ^s.  6d. 

Proude.— THE  Two  CHIEFS  OF  DUN- 
BOY  :  an  Irish  Romance  of  the  Last 
Century.  By  J.  A.  FROUDE.  Cr.  8vo., 
35.  6d. 

fiaggard.— Works  by  H.  RIDER  HAG- 
GARD. 

SHE.  With  32  Illustrations  by  M. 
GREIFFENHAGEN  and  C.  H.  M. 
KERR.  Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 
ALLAN  QUATERMAIN.  With  31  Illus- 
trations by  C.  H.  M.  KERR.  Cr. 
8vo.,  y.  6d. 

MAIWA'S  REVENGE  ;  or,  The  War  of 
the  Little  Hand.  Cr.  8vo.,  is.  boards, 
is.  6d.  cloth. 

COLONEL  QUARITCH,  V.C.  Cr.  8vo., 
y.  6d. 


Haggard.— Works  by  H.  RIDER  HAG- 
GAR  D — con  tin  ued. 

CLEOPATRA.  With  29  Full-page  Illus- 
trations by  M.  GREIFFENHAGEN  and 
R.  CATON  WOODVILLE.  Cr.  8vo., 
y.  6d. 

BEATRICE.     Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 
ERIC  BRIGHTEYF.S.     With    17    Plates 
and  34  Illustrations  in  the  Text  by 
LANCELOT  SPEED.     Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 
NADA  THE   LILY.     With  23  Illustra- 
tions by  C.  H.  M.  KERR.    Cr.8vo.,6f. 

MONTEZUMA'S    DAUGHTER.      With    24 

Illustrations  by  M.  GREIFFENHAGEN. 
Cr.  8vo.,6*. 

Haggard  and  Lang.— -THE  WORLD'S 
DESIRE.  By  H.  RIDER  HAGGARD  and 
ANDREW  LANG.  Cr.  8vo.,  6s. 

Harte.  —  IN  THE  CARQUINEZ  WOODS, 
and  other  Stories.  By  BRET  HARTE. 
Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

KEITH  DERAMORE:  a  Novel.  By 
the  Author  of  '  Miss  Molly '.  Cr.  8vo., 

Lyall. — THE  AUTOBIOGRAPHY  OF  A 
SLANDER.  By  EDNA  LYALL,  Author 
of '  Donovan,"  &c.  Fcp.  8vo.,  is.  sewed. 
Presentation  Edition.  With  20  Illus- 
trations by  LANCELOT  SPEED.  Cr. 
8vo. ,  y. 

Melville.— Works  by  G.  J.  WHYTB 
MELVILLE. 

The  Gladiators.  Holmby  House. 

The  Interpreter.  Kate  Coventry. 

Good  for  Nothing.        Digby  Grand. 


The  Queen's  Maries. 


General  Bounce. 


Cr.  8vo.  ,  u.  6d.  each. 
Oliphant.  —  Works  by  Mrs.  OLIPHANT. 

MADAM.     Cr.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 

IN  TRUST.    Cr.  8vo.  ,  is.  6d. 
Parr.  —  CAN  THIS  BE  LOVE?    By  Mrs. 

PARR,  Author  of  '  Dorothy  Fox'.     Cr. 

8vo.,  6s. 
Payn.—  Works  by  JAMES  PAYN. 

THE  LUCK  OF  THE  DARRELLS.    Cr. 
8vo.,  is.  6d. 

THICKER  THAN   WATER.     Cr.    8vo., 

is.  6d. 
Phillipps-Wolley.—  SNAP  :  a  Legend 

of  the  Lone  Mountain.     By  C.   PHIL- 

LIPPS-WOLLEY.    With  13  Illustrations 

by  H.  G.  WILLINK.     Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 
Robertson.  —  THE  KIDNAPPED  SQUAT- 

TER, and  other  Australian  Tales.     By  A. 

ROBERTSON.     Cr.  8vo.,  6s. 


i8       LONGMANS  &  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


Works  of  Fiction,  Humour,  be— continued. 

Sewell. — Works    by    ELIZABETH    M. 
SEWELL. 

A  Glimpse  of  the  World.    Amy  Herbert. 
Cleve  Hall. 
Gertrude. 
Home  Life. 
After  Life. 
Ursula.     Ivors. 
zs.  6d. 


Laneton  Parsonage. 
Margaret  Percival. 
Katharine  Ashton. 
The  Earl's  Daughter. 
The  Experience  of  Life. 
Cr.  8vo.,  is.  6d.  each  cloth  plain, 
each  cloth  extra,  gilt  edges. 

Stevenson. — Works  by  ROBERT  Louis 
STEVENSON. 
STRANGE  CASE  OF  DR.  JEKYLL  AND 

MR.   HYDE.      Fcp.  8vo.,   is.  sewed. 

is.  6d.  cloth. 
THE  DYNAMITER.    Fcp.  8vo.,  is.  sewed. 

15.  6d.  cloth. 

Stevenson  and  Osbourne.— THE 
WRONG  Box.  By  ROBERT  Louis  STE- 
VENSON and  LLOYD  OSBOURNE.  Cr. 
8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

Sturgis. — AFTER  TWENTY  YEARS,  and 
other  Stories.  By  JULIAN  STURGIS. 
Cr.  8vo.,  6s. 

Suttner.— LAY  DOWN  YOUR  ARMS 
Die  Waffen  Nieder:  The  Autobiography 
of  Martha  Tilling.  By  BERTHA  VON 
SUTTNER.  Translated  by  T.  HOLMES. 
Cr.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 

Thompson. — A  MORAL  DILEMMA  By 
ANNIE  THOMPSON.  Cr.  8vo.,  dr. 


Tirebuck.— Works  by  WILLIAM  TIRE- 
BUCK. 

DORRIE.     Crown  8vo.,  6s. 
SWEETHEART  GWEN.    Cr.  8vo.,  65. 
Trollope.— Works  by  ANTHONY  TROL- 

LOPE. 

THE  WARDEN.    Cr.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 
BARCHESTER  TOWERS.   Cr.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 

TRUE,  A,  RELATION  OF  THE 
TRAVELS  AND  PERILOUS  ADVEN- 
TURES OF  MATHEW  DUDGEON,  Gentle- 
man :  Wherein  is  truly  set  down  the 
Manner  of  his  Taking,  the  Long  Time 
of  his  Slavery  in  Algiers,  and  Means  of 
his  Delivery.  Crown  8vo.,  $s. 

Walford.— Works  by  L.  B.  WALFORD. 
THE  MISCHIEF  OF  MONICA  :  a  Novel. 

Cr.  8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 

THE  ONE  GOOD  GUEST  :  a  Story.     Cr. 
8vo,  zs.  6d. 

West. — HALF-HOURS  WITH  THE  MIL- 
LIONAIRES :  Showing  how  much  harder 
it  is  to  spend  a  million  than  to  make  it. 
Edited  by  B.  B.  WEST.  Cr.  8vo.,  6s. 

Weyman. — Works     by    STANLEY    J. 
WEYMAN. 
THE  HOUSE  OF  THE  WOLF  :  a  Romance. 

Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

A  GENTLEMAN  OF  FRANCE..    Cr.  8vo. 
6s. 


Popular  Science  (Natural  History,  &c.). 


Butler. — OUR    HOUSEHOLD    INSECTS.  !  Hartwig. — Works    by    Dr.    GEORGE 

By  E.  A.  BUTLER.     With  7  Plates  and  ' 

113   Illustrations  in  the  Text.     Crown 

8vo. ,  6s. 
Furneaux. — THE  OUTDOOR  WORLD; 

or,  The  Young  Collector's  Handbook. 

By  W.    FURNEAUX,    F.R.G.S.     With 

16  Coloured  Plates,  2  Plain  Plates,  and 

549   Illustrations  in  the  Text.     Crown 

8vo.,  71.  6d. 

Hart-wig.— Works    by    Dr.    GEORGE 
HARTWIG. 
THE  SEA  AND  ITS  LIVING  WONDERS. 

With  12  Plates  and  303  Woodcuts. 

8vo.,  75.  net. 
THE  TROPICAL  WORLD.  With  8  Plates 

and  172  Woodcuts.     8vo. ,  js.  net. 
THE  POLAR  WORLD.    With  3  Maps,  8 

Plates  and  85  Woodcuts.     8vo.,  "js. 

net. 


HARTWIG — continued. 

THE  SUBTERRANEAN  WORLD.  With 
3  Maps  and  80  Woodcuts.  8vo. ,  -js. 
net. 

THE  AERIAL  WORLD.  With  Map,  8 
Plates  and  60  Woodcuts.  8vo. ,  js. 
net. 

HEROES  OF  THE  POLAR  WORLD.  19 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. ,  2*. 

WONDERS  OF  THE  TROPICAL  FORESTS. 
40  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. ,  zs. 

WORKERS  UNDER  THE  GROUND.  29 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.,  2s. 

MARVELS  OVER  OUR  HEADS.  29  Il- 
lustrations. Crown  8vo. ,  zs. 

SEA  MONSTERS  AND  SEA  BIRDS.  75 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 


LONGMANS  &•  CO. '5  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS.       19 


Popular  Science  (Natural  History,  &c.). 


Hartwig. — Works     by 
H  ART  WIG — contin  ued. 


Dr.     GEORGE 


DENIZENS  OF  THE  DEEP.  117  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  8vo.,  zs,  6d. 

VOLCANOES  AND  EARTHQUAKES.  30 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 

WILD  ANIMALS  OF  THE  TROPICS.  66 
Illustrations.  Crown  8vo.,  3^.  6d. 

Helmholtz.— POPULAR  LECTURES  ON- 
SCIENTIFIC  SUBJECTS.  By  HERMANN 
VON  HELMHOLTZ.  With  68  Woodcuts. 
2  vols.  Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d.  each. 

Lydekker. — PHASES  OF  ANIMAL  LIFE, 
PAST  AND  PRESENT.  By  R.  LYDEKKER, 
B.A.  With  82  Illus'rations.  Crown 
8vo.,  6s. 

Proctor.— Works  by  RICHARD  A. 
PROCTOR. 

And  see  Messrs.  Longmans  fr»  Co.'s 
Catalogue  of  Scientific  Works. 

LIGHT  SCIENCE  FOR  LEISURE  HOURS. 
Familiar  Essays  on  Scientific  Subjects. 
3  vols.  Crown  8vo.(  y.  each. 

CHANCE  AND  LUCK:  a  Discussion  of 
the  Laws  of  Luck,  Coincidence, 
Wagers,  Lotteries  and  the  Fallacies 
of  Gambling,  &c.  Cr.  8vo.,  zs. 
boards,  zs.  6d.  cloth. 

ROUGH  WAYS  MADE  SMOOTH.  Fami- 
liar Essays  on  Scientific  Subjects. 
Silver  Library  Edition.  Crown  8vo., 
y.  6d. 

PLEASANT  WAYS  IN  SCIENCE.  Cr. 
8vo.,  y.  Silver  Library  Edition. 
Crown  8vo.,  y.  dd. 

THE  GREAT  PYRAMID,  OBSERVATORY, 
TOMB  AND  TEMPLE.  With  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  8vo.,  y. 

NATURE  STUDIES.  By  R.  A.  PROCTOR, 
GRANT  ALLEN,  A.  WILSON,  T. 
FOSTER  and  E.  CLODD.  Crown 
8vo.,  y.  Silver  Library  Edition. 
Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6a. 

LEISURE  READINGS.  By  R.  A.  PROC- 
TOR, E.  CLODD,  A.  WILSON,  T. 
FOSTER,  and  A.  C.  RANYARD.  Cr. 
8vo. ,  y. 


Stanley. — A  FAMILIAR    HISTORY    OF 
BIRDS.     By   E.   STANLEY,    D.D.,   for- 
merly Bishop  of  Norwich.    With  Illus- 
trations.     Cr.   8vo.,  y.  6d. 

"Wood.— Works  by  the  Rev.  J.  G.  WOOD. 

HOMES  WITHOUT  HANDS  :  a  Descrip- 
tion of  the  Habitation  of  Animals, 
classed  according  to  the  Principle  of 
Construction.  With  140  Illustrations. 
8vo. ,  js.  net. 

INSECTS  AT  HOME  :  a  Popular  Account 
of  British  Insects,  their  Structure, 
Habits  and  Transformations.  With 
700  Illustrations.  8vo.,  ?s.  net. 

INSECTS  ABROAD  :  a  Popular  Account 
of  Foreign  Insects,  their  Structure, 
Habits  and  Transformations.  With 
600  Illustrations.  8vo. ,  TS.  net 

BIBLE  ANIMALS:  a  Description  of 
every  Living  Creature  mentioned  in 
the  Scriptures.  With  112  Illustra- 
tions. 8vo.,  75.  net. 

PETLAND  REVISITED.  With  33  Illus- 
trations. Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

OUT  OF  DOORS;  a  Selection  of  Origi- 
nal Articles  on  Practical  Natural 
History.  With  n  Illustrations.  Cr. 
8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

STRANGE  DWELLINGS  :  a  Description 
of  the  Habitations  of  Animals, 
abridged  from  '  Homes  without 
Hands  '.  With  60  Illustrations.  Cr. 
8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

BIRD  LIFE  OF  THE  BIBLE.  32  Illustra- 
tions. Cr.  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

WONDERFUL  NESTS.  30  Illustrations. 
Cr.  8vo  ,  y.  6d. 

HOMES  UNDER  THE  GROUND.  28  Illus- 
trations. Cr.  8vo. ,  3*.  6d. 

WILD  ANIMALS  OF  THE  BIBLE.  29 
Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

DOMESTIC  ANIMALS  OF  THE  BIBLE.  23 
Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

THE  BRANCH  BUILDERS.  28  Illustra- 
tions. Cr.  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 

SOCIAL  HABITATIONS  AND  PARASITIC 
NESTS.  18  Illustrations.  Cr.  Svo.,. 
zs. 


20       LONGMANS  &>  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORK'S. 


Works  of  Reference. 


Maunder's  (Samuel)  Treasuries. 

BIOGRAPHICAL  TREASURY.  With  Sup- 
plement brought  down  to  1889.  By 
Rev.  JAMES  WOOD.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  6s. 

TREASURY  OF  NATURAL  HISTORY  :  or, 
Popular  Dictionary  of  Zoology.  With 
900  Woodcuts.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  6s. 

TREASURY  OF  GEOGRAPHY,  Physical, 
Historical,  Descriptive,  and  Political. 
With  7  Maps  and  16  Plates.  Fcp. 
8vo.,  6s. 

THE  TREASURY  OF  BISLE  KNOW- 
LEDGE. By  the  Rev.  J.  AYRE,  M.A. 
With  5  Maps,  15  plates,  and  300 
Woodcuts.  Fcp.  8vo.,  6s. 

HISTORICAL  TREASURY:  Outlines  of 
Universal  History,  Separate  Histories 
of  all  Nations.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  6s. 

TREASURY  OF  KNOWLEDGE  AND 
LIBRARY  OF  REFERENCE.  Com- 
prising an  English  Dictionary  and 
Grammar,  Universal  Gazeteer,  Classi- 
cal Dictionary,  Chronology,  Law 
Dictionary,  &c.  Fcp.  8vo.,  6s. 


Maunder's  (Samuel)  Treasuries 

—continued. 

SCIENTIFIC  AND  LITERARY  TREASURY. 
Fcp.  8vo.,  6s. 

THE  TREASURY  OF  BOTANY.  Edited 
by  J.  LINDLEY,  F.R.S.,  and  T. 
MOORE,  F.L.S.  With  274  Wood- 
cuts and  20  Steel  Plates.  2  vols. 
Fcp.  8vo.,  12s. 

Roget.-THESAURUS  OFENGLISHWORDS 

AND  PHRASES.  Classified  and  Ar- 
ranged so  as  to  Facilitate  the  Expression 
of  Ideas  and  assist  in  Literary  Com- 
position. By  PETER  MARK  ROGET, 
M.D..  F.R.S.  Recomposed  through- 
out, enlarged  and  improved,  partly 
from  the  Author's  Notes,  and  with  a 
full  Index,  by  the  Author's  Son,  JOHN 
LEWIS  ROGET.  Crown  8vo. ,  ios.  6d. 

Willich.— POPULAR  TABLES  for  giving 
information  for  ascertaining  the  value  of 
Lifehold,  Leasehold,  and  Church  Pro- 
perty, the  Public  Funds,  &c.  By 
CHARLES  M.  WILLICH.  Edited  by  H. 
BENCE  JONES.  Crown  8vo.,  IOT.  6d. 


Children's  Books. 


Crake.— Works  by  Rev.  A.  D.  CRAKE. 

EDWY  THE  FAIR  ;  or,  the  First  Chro- 
nicle of  ^Escendune.  Crown  8vo., 
2s.  6d. 

A.LFGAR  THE  DANE:  or,  the  Second  Chro- 
nicle of  ^Escendune.  Cr.  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 

THE  RIVAL  HEIRS  :  being  the  Third 
and  Last  Chronicle  of  ^Escendune. 
Cr.  8vo.,  2s.  6d. 

THE  HOUSE  OF  WALDERNE.  A  Tale 
of  the  Cloister  and  the  Forest  in  the 
Days  of  the  Barons'  Wars.  Crown 
8vo.,  2s.  6d. 

BRIAN  FITZ-COUNT.  A  Story  of  Wal- 
lingford  Castle  and  Dorchester  Abbey. 
Cr.  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 

Ingelow.— VERY  YOUNG,  AND  QUITE 
ANOTHER  STORY.  Two  Stories.  By 
JEAN  INGELOW.  Crown  8vo. ,  zs.  6d. 

'Lang. — Works  edited  by  ANDREW  LANG. 

THE   BLUE    FAIRY    BOOK.      With   8 

Plates  and    130   Illustrations   in    the 

Text    by    H.    J.    FORD   and   G.    P. 

JACOMB  HOOD.     Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 


Lang. — Works  edited  by  ANDREW  LANG 
— continued. 

THE  RED  FAIRY  BOOK.  With  4  Plates 
and  96  Illustrations  in  the  Text  by  H. 
J.  FORD  and  LANCELOT  SPEED. 
Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 

THE  GREEN  FAIRY  BOOK.  With  n 
Plates  and  88  Illustrations  in  the  Text 
by  H.  J.  FORD  and  L.  BOGLE.  Cr. 
8vo.,  6s. 

THE  BLUE  POETRY  BOOK.  With  12 
Plates  and  88  Illustrations  in  the  Text 
by  H.  J.  FORD  and  LANCELOT  SPEED. 
Crown  8vo.,  6s. 

THE  BLUE  POETRY  BOOK.  School 
Edition,  without  Illustrations.  Fcp. 
8vo. ,  2s.  6d. 

THE  TRUE  STORY  BOOK.  With  8  Plates 
and  58  Illustrations  in  the  Text,  by 
C.  H.  KERR,  H.  J.  FOKD,  LANCELOT 
SPEED,  and  L.  BOGLE.  Crown  8vo., 
6s. 


LONGMANS  &•  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL    WORKS.       21 


Children's  Books— continued. 


Meade. — Works  by  L.  T.  MEADE. 
DEB  AND  THE  DUCHESS.      Illustrated. 

Crown  8vo.,  y.  6d. 
THE  BERESFORD  PRIZE.     Illustrated. 

Cr.  8vo.,  y. 
DADDY'S     BOY.      Illustrated.      Crown 

8vo.,  y.  6d. 

Molesworth. — Works  by  Mrs.  MOLES- 
WORTH. 

SILVERTHORNS.  Illustrated.  Cr.  8vo.,  55. 
THE  PALACE  IN  THE  GARDEN.    Illus- 
trated.    Crown  8vo.,  y. 
THE  THIRD  Miss  ST.  QUENTIN.    Cr. 

8vo.,  2s.  6d. 

NEIGHBOURS.   Illustrated.   Cr.  8vo.,  6s. 
THE  STORY  OF  A  SPRING  MORNING,  &c. 
Illustrated.     Crown  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 


Reader.  —  VOICES  FROM  FLOWKK- 
LAND  :  a  Birthday  Book  and  Language 
of  Flowers.  By  EMILY  E.  READF.U. 
Illustrated  by  ADA  BROOKE.  Royal 
i6mo.  ,  cloth,  2s.  6d.  ;  vegetable  vellum, 
y.  6d. 


Stevenson.  —  Works  by  ROBERT  Louis 
STEVENSON. 

A  CHILD'S  GARDEN  OF  VERSES.  Small 
fcp.  8vo.,  51. 

A  CHILD'S  GARLAND  OF  SONGS. 
Gathered  from  '  A  Child's  Garden  of 
Verses  '.  Set  to  Music  by  C.  VILLIERS 
STANFORD,  Mus.  Doc.  410..  vs. 
sewed  ;  3^.  6d.  ,  cloth  gilt. 


The  Silver 

CROWN  8vo.     y.  6d. 

Baker's    (Sir    8.    W.)    Eight  Years    in  . 
Ceylon.    With  6  Illustrations.     3-r.  fid.  \ 

Baker's  (Sir  8.  W.  Rifle  and  Hound  in 
Ceylon.  With  6  Illustrations.  y.  6d. 

Baring-Gould's  (Rev.  S.)  Curious  Myths 
of  the  Middle  Ages,  y  6(/- 

Baring-Gould's  (Rev.  S.)  Origin  and 
Development  of  Religious  Belief.  2 
vols.  y.  6d.  each. 

Brassey's  (Lady)  A  Voyage  in  the '  Sun- 
beam '.  With  66  Illustrations,  y.  6d. 

Clodd's  (E.)  Story  of  Creation  :  a  Plain 
Account  of  Evolution.  With  77  Illus- 
trations, y.  6d. 

Conybeare  (Rev.  W.  J.)  and  Howson's 
(Very  Rev.  J.  S.)  Life  and  Epistles  of 
St.  Paul.  46  Illustrations.  y.  6d. 

Dougall's  (L.)  Beggars  All;  a  Novel. 
3-f.  6d. 

Doyle's  (A.  Conan)  Micah  Clarke  :  a  Tale 
of  Monmouth's  Rebellion,  y.  dd. 

Doyle's  (A.  Conan)  The  Captain  of  the 
Polestar,  and  other  Tales.  3.?.  6d. 

Fronde's  (J.  A.)  Short  Studies  on  Great 
Subjects.  4  vols.  3.1.  6d.  each. 

Froude's  ( J.  A.)  Caesar :  a  Sketch,    y.  6d. 

Froude's  (J.  A.)  Thomas  Carlyle:  a 
History  of  his  Life. 

1795-1835.       2  VOls.       -JS. 
1834-1881.        2  VOls.        7S. 

Froude's  (J.  A.)  The  Two  Chiefs  of  Dun- 
boy.  3^.  6d. 

Froude's  (J.  A.)  The  History  of  England, 
from  the  Fall  of  VVolsey  to  the  Defeat 
of  the  Spanish  Armada.  12  vols. 
35.  6d.  each. 


Library. 

EACH  VOLUME. 

Gleig's  (Rev.  G.  R.)  Life  of  the  Duke  of 

Wellington.    With  Portrait,     y.  6d. 
Haggard's  (H.   R.)  She:   A  History  of 

Adventure.     32  Illustrations.     3^.  6d. 
Haggard's  (H.  R.)    Allan   Quatermain. 

With  20  Illustrations.     3^.  6d. 
Haggard's   (H.    R.)    Colonel    Quaritch, 

V.C.  :   a  Tale  of  Country  Life.     y. 

6d. 
Haggard's  (H.  R.)  Cleopatra.      With  29 

Full-page  Illustrations.     3-f.  6d. 
Haggard's    (H.    R.)    Eric    Brighteyes. 

With  51  Illustrations.     3*.  6d. 
Haggard's  (H.  R.)  Beatrice,    y.  6d. 
Harte's  (Bret)  In  the  Carquinez  Woods, 

and  other  Stories,     y.  6d. 
Helmholtz's    (Hermann    von)   Popular 

Lectures     on      Scientific     Subjects. 

With  68  Woodcuts.     2  vols.     y.  6d. 

each. 
Howitt's    (W.)    Visits    to    Remarkable 

Places.    80  Illustrations,     y.  6d. 
Jefferies'  (R.)  The  Story  of  My  Heart : 

My  Autobiography.      With   Portrait. 

y.  6d. 
Jefferies'  (R.)  Field  and  Hedgerow.  \Yith 

Portrait.     35.  6d. 
Jefferies'     (R.)    Red    Deer.      With    17 

Illustrations,     y.  f>d. 
Jefferies'  (R.)   Wood   Magic:   a   Fable. 

3*.  6d. 
Jefferies'  (R.)  The  Toilers  of  the  Field. 

With  Portrait  from  the  Bust  in  Salis- 
bury Cathedral,     y.  6d. 


22        LONGMANS  &  CO. 'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL   WORKS. 


The  Silver  Library — continued. 


Knight's  (E.  F.)  The  Cruise  of  the 
'  Alerte' :  the  Narrative  of  a  Search  for 
Treasure  on  the  Desert  Island  of 
Trinidad.  With  2  Maps  and  23 
Illustrations,  y.  6d. 
Lang's  (A.)  Custom  and  Myth:  Studies 

of  Early  Usage  and  Belief,     y.  6d. 
Lees  (J.  A.)  and  Clutterbuck's  (W.  J.) 
B.C.     1887,     A    Ramble     in     British 
Columbia.  With  Maps  and  75  Illustra- 
tions,    y.  6d. 
Hacaulay's  (Lord)  Essays  and  Lays  of 

Ancient  Rome.     35.  6J. 
Mac'.eod  (H.  D.)  The  Elements  of  Bank- 
ing.   35.  6d. 
Harshman's  (J.  C.)  Memoirs  of  Sir  Henry 

Havelock.    3.?.  6d. 
Max  Miiiler's  (F.)  India,  what  can   it 

teach  us  ?     y.  6d. 
Max  Mailer's   (F.)  Introduction  to  the 

Science  of  Religion.    35.  6d. 
Merivale's  (Dean)  History  of  the  Romans 

under  the  Empire.  8  vols.     y.  6d.  ea. 
Mill's  (J.  S.)  Political  Economy.    y.  6d. 
Mill's  (J.  S.)  System  of  Logic.     3.?.  6d. 
Milner's(Geo.)  Country  Pleasures.  y.6d. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)  Apologia  Pro  Vita 

Sua.     y.  6d. 
Newman's        (Cardinal)         Historical 

Sketches.    3  vols.     y.  6d.  each. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)  Callista :  a  Tale 

of  the  Third  Century.     y.  6<f. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)  Loss  and  Gain:  a 

Tale.     35.  6d. 
Newman's   (Cardinal)   Essays,  Critical 

and  Historical.     2  vols.    js. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)  The  Development 

of  Christian  Doctrine,     y.  6d. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)  The  Arians  of  the 

Fourth  Century.    3*.  6d. 
Newman's       (Cardinal)      Verses      on 

Various  Occasions,    y.  6d. 
Newman's      (Cardinal)     The     Present 

Position    of   Catholics   In   England. 

3*.  6d. 
Newman's    (Cardinal)    Parochial    and 

Plain  Sermons.    8  vols.     y.  6d.  each. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)  Selection  from  the 

'Parochial  and  Plain  Sermons'.  y.6d. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)  Sermons  bearing 

upon  Subjects  of  the  Day.    y.  6d. 


Newman's  (Cardinal)  Difficulties  felt  by 
Anglicans  in  Catholic  Teaching  Con- 
sidered.    2  vols.     y.  6d.  each, 
Newman's    (Cardinal)   The   idea   of   a 

University,    y.  6d. 
Newman's     (Cardinal)      Biblical    and 

Ecclesiastical  Miracles.    y.  6d. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)   Discussions  and 

Arguments,     y.  6d. 
Newman's     (Cardinal)     Grammar     of 

Ascent,    y.  6d. 

Newman's  (Cardinal)  Fifteen  Sermons 
Preached  before    the   University   of 
Oxford,    y.  6d. 
Newman's    (Cardinal)  Lectures  on  the 

Doctrine  of  Justification.     35.  6d. 
Newman's     (Cardinal)      Sermons     on 

Various  Occasions.     35.  6d. 
Newman's  (Cardinal)  Via  Media  of  the 
Anglican  Church,  in  Lectures,  &c.     2 
vols.     y.  6d.  each. 
Newman's    (Cardinal)   Discourses      to 

Mixed  Congregations,     y.  6d. 
Phillipps-Wolley's  (C.)  Snap :  a  Legend 
of  the   Lone   Mountain.      With    13 
Illustrations,     y.  6d. 
Proctor's  (R.    A.)    Other  Worlds   than 

Ours.    y.  6d. 
Proctor's   (R.   A.)  Rough    Ways    made 

Smooth,    y.  6d. 
Proctor's    (R.    A.)    Pleasant  Ways  in 

Science,     y.  6d. 
Proctor's  (R.  A.)  The  Orbs  Around  Us. 

y.  6d. 
Proctor's  (R.  A.)  The  Expanse  of  Heaven. 

y.  6d. 
Proctor's  (R.  A.)  Myths   and   Marvels 

of  Astronomy.    3-5-.  6d. 
Proptor's  I  R.  A.)  Nature  Studies,    y.  6d. 
Smith's  (R.  Bosworth)  Carthage  and  the 

Carthaginians,     y.  6d. 
Stanley's  (Bishop)  Familiar  History  of 

Birds.     160  Illustrations,     y.  fxi. 
Stevenson  (Robert  Louis)  and  Osbourne's 

(Lloyd)  The  Wrong  Box.    y.  6d. 
Weyman's  (Stanley  J.)  The   House  of 

the  Wolf :  a  Romance.     y.*6d. 
Wood's  (Rev.  J.  G.)  Petland  Revisited. 

With  33  Illustrations,     y.  6d. 
Wood's  (Rev.  J.  G.)  Strange  Dwellings. 

With  60  Illustrations,    y.  6d. 
Wood's  (Rev.  J.  G.)  Out  of  Doors,     n 
Illustrations,     y.  6d. 


Cookery,  Domestic  Management,  &c. 


Acton. — MODERN  COOKERY.  By  ELIZA 
ACTON.  With  150  Woodcuts.  Fcp. 
8vo.,  4S.  6d. 

Bull.— Works  by  THOMAS  BULL,  M.D. 
HINTS  TO  MOTHERS  ON  THE  MANAGE- 


MENTOFTHEIR  HEALTH  DURING  THE 

PERIOD  OF  PREGNANCY.     Fcp.  8vo., 
is.  6d. 

THE  MATERNAL  MANAGEMENT  OF 
CHILDREN  IN  HEALTH  AND  DISEASE. 
Fcp.  8vo. ,  is.  6d. 


LONGMANS  &•  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL    WORKS. 


Cookery,  Domestic  Management,  &c.— continued. 


De  Sails.— Works  by  Mrs.  DE  SALIS. 
CAKES  AND  CONFECTIONS  X  LA  MODE. 
Fcp.  8vo. ,  is.  6d. 

DOGS  :  a  Manual  for  Amateurs.     Fcp. 
8vo.,  is.  6d. 

DRESSED  GAME  AND  POULTRY  A  LA 

MODE.     Fcp.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 
DRESSED  VEGETABLES  X  LA  MODE. 

Fcp.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 

DRINKS  X  LA  MODE.  Fcp.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 
ENTRIES  X  LA  MODE.  Fcp.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 
OYSTERS  X  LA  MODE.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  is.  6d. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PASTRY  A  LA  MODE.  I 
Fcp.  8vo. ,  ij.  6d. 

SAVOURIES  A  LA  MODE.     Fcp.   8vo., 
is.  6d. 

SOUPS  AND  DRESSED  FISH  A  LA  MODE. 
Fcp.  8vo.,  ij.  6d. 

SWEETS  AND  SUPPER  DISHES  X  LA 
MODE.     Fcp.  8vo. ,  is.  6d. 

TEMPTING   DISHES    FOR    SMALL   IN- 
COMES.   Fcp.  8vo.,  u.  6d. 


De  Sails — Works  by  Mrs.  DE  SALIS— 
continued. 

FLORAL  DECORATIONS.      Suggestions 

and  Descriptions.     Fcp.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 

NEW-LAID  EGGS  :  Hints  for  Amateur 

Poultry  Rearers.     Fcp.  8vo.,  is.  6d. 
WRINKLES  AND  NOTIONS  FOR  EVERY 

HOUSEHOLD.    Cr.  Svo. ,  is.  6d. 
Harrison. — COOKERY  FOR  BUSY  LIVES 
AND  SMALL  INCOMES.    By  MARY  HAR- 
RISON.    Cr.  8vo.r  i5. 
Lear.— MAIGRE  COOKERY.     By  H.  L. 

SIDNEY  LEAR.     i6mo.,  zs. 
!  Poole.— COOKERY  FOR  THE  DIABETIC. 


By  W.  H.  and  Mrs.  POOLE.  With 
Preface  by  Dr.  PAVY.  Fcp.  8vo.,  zs.  6./. 
"Walker. — A  HANDBOOK  FOR  MOTHERS: 
being  Simple  Hints  to  Women  on  the 
Management  of  their  Health  during 
Pregnancy  and  Confinement,  together 
with  Plain  Directions  as  to  the  Care  of 
Infants.  By  JANE  H.WALKER,  L.R.C.  P. 
and  L.M.  L.R.C.S.  and  M.D.  (Brux.). 
With  13  Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo.,  zs.  6d. 


Miscellaneous  and  Critical  Works. 


Allingham. — VARIETIES    IN    PROSE. 

By  WILLIAM  ALLINGHAM.  3  vols.   Cr. 

8vo,  i8j.     (Vols.  i  and  2,  Rambles,  by 

PATRICIUS  WALKER.      Vol.    3.   Irish 

Sketches,  etc.) 
Armstrong. — ESSAYS  AND  SKETCHES. 

By  EDMUND   J.    ARMSTRONG.      Fcp. 

8vo.,  $s. 
Bagehot.— LITERARY    STUDIES.      By 

W  ALTER  BAGEHOT.    z  vols.    8vo.,  zSs. 
Baines.— SHAKESPEARE  STUDIES,  AND 

OTHER  ESSAYS.    By  THOMAS  SPENCER 

BAINES,  LL.D.      With  a  biographical 

Preface   by   Prof.    LEWIS    CAMPBELL. 

Crown  8vo. ,  "js.  6d. 
Baring-Gould. — CURIOUS  MYTHS  OF 

THE    MIDDLE    AGES.      By    Rev.    S. 

BARING-GOULD.     Crown  8vo.,  y.  6d. 
B  a tt ye.  — PICTURES    IN    PROSE    OF 

NATURE,  WILD  SPORT,  AND  HUMBLE 

LIFE.     By  AUBYN  TREVOR  BATTYE, 

B.A.     Crown  8vo. ,  6s. 
Boyd  ('A.   K.   H.   B.').— Works    by 

A.  K.  H.  BOYD,  D.D. 

AUTUMN   HOLIDAYS  OF  A   COUNTRY 
PARSON.     Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 

COMMONPLACE  PHILOSOPHER.    Crown 
Svo. ,  3-r  6d. 

CRITICAL    ESSAYS    OF    A    COUNTRY 
PARSON.     Crown  Svo.,  y.  6d. 

EAST    COAST  DAYS  AND  MEMORIES. 
Crown  8vo. .  is.  6d 


Boyd    ('A.  K.  H.  B.').— Works   by 

A.  K.  H.  BOYD,  D.D.—  continued. 

LANDSCAPES,  CHURCHES  AND  MORA- 
LITIES. Crown  Svo. ,  y.  6d. 

LEISURE  HOURS  IN  TOWN.  Crown 
8vo. ,  y.  bd. 

LESSONSOFMlDDLEAGE.Cr.8vo.,3J.6<jr. 

OUR  LITTLE  LIFE.    Two  Series.    Cr. 

8vo,.  y.  6d.  each. 
OUR  HOMELY  COMEDY:  AND  TRAGEDY. 

Crown  Svo. ,  y.  6d. 
RECREATIONS  OF  A  COUNTRY  PARSON. 

Three  Series.     Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d.  each. 

First  Series.  Popular  Ed.  Svo. ,6d.  swd. 
Butler. — Works  by  SAMUEL  BUTLER. 
EREWHON.    Cr.  8vo.,  55. 
THE  FAIR  HAVEN.    A  Work  in  Defence 

of  the    Miraculous    Element    in   our 

Lord's  Ministry.     Cr.  Svo. ,  -js.  6d. 
LIFE  AND  HABIT.      An  Essay  after  a 

Completer  View  of  Evolution.      Cr. 

8vo.,  75.  (>d 
EVOLUTION,  OLD  AND  NEW.    Cr.  8vo., 

ior.  6d. 
ALPS  AND  SANCTUARIES  OF  PIEDMONT 

AND  CANTON  TICINO.  Pt.4to. ,  ios.6J. 
LUCK,  OR  CUNNING,   AS  THE  MAIS 

ME  -\.ss  OF  ORGANIC  MODIFICATION  ? 

Cr.  8vo.,  7*.  6d. 
Ex   YOTO.    An  Account  of  the   Sacro 

Monte  or  New  Jerusalem  at  Varallo- 

Sesioa.     Crown  8vo.,  ioj.  6d. 


LONGMANS  &>  CO.'S  STANDARD  AND  GENERAL    WORKS. 


Miscellaneous  and  Critical  Works — continued. 


Francis. — JUNIUS  REVEALED  By  his 
surviving  Grandson,  H.  R.  FRANCIS. 
8vo.,  6s. 

Halliwell-Phillipps.— A  CALENDAR 
OF  THE  HALLIWELL  -  PHILLIPPS 
COLLECTION  OF  SHAKESPEAREAN 
RARITIES.  Enlarged  by  ERNEST  E. 
BAKER,  F.S.A.  8vo.,  105.  6d. 

Hodgson.  —  OUTCAST    ESSAYS    AND 
VERSE  TRANSLATIONS.     By  W.  SHAD- 
WORTH   HODGSON.  Crown  8vo.,  8s.  6d. 
Hullah.— Works  by  JOHN  HULLAH. 
COURSE  OF  LECTURES  ON  THE  HIS- 
TORY OF  MODERN  Music.  8vo.,  8s.  6d. 
COURSE  OF  LECTURES  ON  THE  TRANSI- 
TION PERIOD  OF  MUSICAL  HISTORY. 
8vo.,  los.  6d. 

Jefferies.— Works  by  RICHARD   JEF- 
FERIE&, 
FIELD  AND  HEDGEROW  :  last  Essays. 

With  Portrait.     Crown  8vo. ,  3^.  6d. 
THE  STORY  OF  MY  HEART  :  my  Auto- 
biography.   Crown  8vo. ,  y.  6d. 
RED    DKER.      With    17    Illustrations. 

Crown  8vo.,  y.  6d. 
THE  TOILERS  OF  THE  FIELD.    Crown 

8vo.,  y.  6d. 
WOOD  MAGIC:  a  Fable.     Crown  8vo., 

35.  6d. 

Johnson. — THE  PATENTEE'S  MANUAL: 
a  Treatise  on  the  Law  and  Practice  of 
Letters  Patent.  By  J.  &  J.  H.  JOHN- 
SON, Patent  Agents,  &c.  8vo. ,  ios.  6d. 

Lang. — Works  by  ANDREW  LANG. 
LETTERS  TO  DEAD  AUTHORS.     Fcp. 

8vo. ,  2s.  6d.  net. 

BOOKS    AND    BOOKMEN.      With     19 
Illustrations.     Fcp.  8vo. ,  2.v.  6d.  net. 
OLD  FRIENDS.     Fcp.  8vo.,  zs.  6d.  net. 
LETTERS  ON  LITERATURE.    Fcp.  8vo., 

2s.  6d.  net. 

Macfarren. — LECTURESON  HARMONY. 

By  Sir  GEO.  A.  MACFARREN.  8vo.,i2J. 

Max    Miiller. — Works    by    F.    MAX 

MULLF.R. 

HIBBERT  LECTURES  ON  THE  ORIGIN 
AND  GROWTH  OF  RELIGION,  as  illus- 
trated by  the  Religions  of  India. 
Crown  8vo. ,  js.  6d. 

INTRODUCTION  TO   THE  SCIENCE   OF 

RELIGION  :  Four  Lectures  delivered  at 

the  Royal  Institution.    Cr.  8vo.  ,35.  6d. 

[continued. 

NATURAL  RELIGION.  The  Gifford 
Lectures,  1890.  Cr.  8vo.,  ios.  6d. 

^0,000/4/94. 


Max    Miiller.— Works    by   F.    MAX 

MtiLLER. — continued. 

PHYSICAL  RELIGION.  The  Gifford 
Lectures,  1890.  Cr.  8vo. ,  ios.  6d. 

ANTHROPOLOGICAL  RELIGION.  The  Gif- 
ford Lectures,  1891.  Cr.  8vo.,  ios.  6d. 

THEOSOPHY  OR  PSYCHOLOGICAL  RELI- 
GION. The  Gifford  Lectures,  1892. 
Cr.  8vo. ,  ios.  6d. 

INDIA  :  WHAT  CAN  IT  TEACH  us  ? 
Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d. 

Mendelssohn. — THE  LETTERS  OF 
FELIX  MENDELSSOHN.  Translated  by 
Lady  WALLACE.  2  vols.  Cr.  8vo.,  ios. 

Milner.— COUNTRY  PLEASURES  :  the 
Chronicle  of  a  Year  chiefly  in  a  Garden. 
By  GEORGE  MILNER.  Cr.  8vo.,  y.  6d 

Proctor. — Works     by     RICHARD     A. 
PROCTOR. 
STRENGTH  AND  HAPPINESS.    With  9 

Illustrations.     Crown  8vo.,  55. 
STRENGTH  :    How  to  get  Strong  and 
keep  Strong,  with  Chapters  on  Row- 
ing and  Swimming,  Fat,  Age,  and  the 
Waist.     Withglllus.     Cr.  8vo,  2s. 

Richardson. — NATIONAL  HEALTH. 
A  Review  of  the  Works  of  Sir  Edwin 
Chadwick,  K.C.B.  By  Sir  B.  W. 
RICHARDSON,  M.D.  Cr. ,  4^.  6d. 

Roget.  —  A  HISTORY  OF  THE  '  OLD 
WATER-COLOUR  SOCIETY  '  (now  the 
Royal  Society  of  Painters  in  Water- 
Colours).  By  JOHN  LEWIS  ROGET. 
2  vols.  Royal  8vo. ,  425. 

Rpssetti.— A  SHADOW  OF  DANTE  :  be- 
ing an  Essay  towards  studying  Himself, 
his  World,  and  his  Pilgrimage.  By 
MARIA  FRANCESCA  ROSSETTI.  With 
Illustrations  and  design  on  cover  by 
DANTE  GABRIEL  ROSSETTI.  Cr.  8vo. , 
io,f.  6d. 

South  ey.  —  CORRESPONDENCE  WITH 
CAROLINE  BOWLES.  By  ROBERT 
SOUTHEY.  Edited  by  E.  DOWDEN. 
8vo.,  145. 

"Wallascliek. — PRIMITIVE  Music  :  an 
Inquiry  into  the  Origin  and  Develop- 
ment 'of  Music,  Songs,  Instruments, 
Dances,  and  Pantomimes  of  Savage 
Races.  By  RICHARD  WALLASCHEK. 
With  Musical  Examples.  8vo. ,  izs.  6d. 

West.— WILLS,  AND  How  NOT  TO 
MAKE  THEM.  With  a  Selection  of 
Leading  Cases.  By  B.  B.  WEST, 
Author  of  '  Half-Hours  with  the  Mil- 
lionaires '.  Fcp.  8vo. ,  2.c.  6d. 


ABERDEEN    UNIVERSITY    PRESS. 


THIS  BOOK  IS  DUE  ON  THE  LAST  DATE 
STAMPED  BELOW. 


Series  9482 


