Glass 

104 

Book 

" 

i?ty 

I 
1 


Ks  t 


THE 


HASTY-PUDDING; 
li  J)  oem, 

IN    THREE    CANTOS. 

WRITTEN  AT  CHAMRERY,  IN   SAVOY,  JANUARY,  1793, 

By     JOEL      BARLOW, 

MINISTER  PLENIPOTENTIARY  TO  FRANCE. 

Orrme  tulit  pwietum  qui  miscuit  utile  dulcu 
He  makes  a  good  breakfast  who  mixes  pudding  with   molasses. 


WITH 


A    MEMOIR 

O  N 

MAIZE  OR  INDIAN  CORN. 

COMPILED  BY 

D.    J.    BROWNE, 

ONCER  THE  DIRECTION  OF  THE  AMERICAN  INSTITUTE. 


NEW    YORK: 
W.  H.  GRAHAM,  TRIBUNE  BUILDINGS 

M.DCCC.XLVII. 


a 


MM""W1MMM,,M"M,*""'MH','"M,1M1 


, 


/ 


T  H  E 


HASTY-PUDDING;^^ 
2t  Poem,  I  Si 

IN    THREE     CANTOS. 

WRITTEN  AT  CHAMRERY,  IN    SAVOY,  JANUARY,   1793, 

By     JOEL      BARLOW, 

MINISTER    PLENIPOTENTIARY  TO  FRANCE. 

Omne  tulit  puncturn  qui  miscuit  utile  dulci. 
He  makes  a  good  breakfast   who   mixes   pudding   with    molasses. 


WITH 


A    MEMOIR 


MAIZE  OR  INDIAN  CORN, 

COMPILED  BY 

D.    J.     BROWNE, 

UNDER  THE  DIRECTION  OF  THE  AMERICAN  INSTITUTE. 


NEW    YORK: 
W.  H.  GRAHAM,  TRIBUNE  BUILDINGS. 

M.DCCC.XLVII. 


■■■■■muonogoBOOgqi 


-f 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  j^ear  1846,  by 

William  H.  Graham, 
In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  Southern  District  of  New  York. 


0* 


S.    W.    BENEDICT, 
8TEREOTYPER   AND    PRINTER,    16    SptUCe    St. 


THE 


HASTY-PUDDING. 


CANTO  I. 

YE  Alps  audacious,  thro'  the  heavens  that  rise, 
To  cramp  the  day  and  hide  me  from  the  skies ; 
Ye  Gallic  flags  that  o'er  their  heights  unfurl'd, 
Bear  death  to  kings,  and  freedom  to  the  world, 
I  sing  not  you.     A  softer  theme  I  choose, 
A  virgin  theme,  unconscious  of  the  Muse, 
But  fruitful,  rich,  well  suited  to  inspire 
The  purest  frenzy  of  poetic  fire. 

Despise  it  not,  ye  Bards  to  terror  steel'd, 
Who  hurl'd  your  thunders  round  the  epic  field; 
Nor  ye  who  strain  your  midnight  throats  to  sing 
Joys  that  the  vineyard  and  the  still-house  bring ; 
Or  on  some  distant  fair  your  notes  employ, 
And  speak  of  raptures  that  you  ne'er  enjoy. 
I  sing  the  sweets  I  know,  the  charms  I  feel, 
My  morning  incense,  and  my  evening  meal, 
The  sweets  of  Hasty- Pudding.     Come,  dear  bowl, 
Glide  o'er  my  palate,  and  inspire  my  soul. 
The  milk  beside  thee,  smoking  from  the  kine, 
Its  substance  mingl'd,  married  it  with  thine, 
Shall  cool  and  temper  thy  superior  heat, 
And  save  the  pains  of  blowing  while  I  eat. 

Oh  !  could  the  smooth,  the  emblematic  song 
Flow  like  the  genial  juices  o'er  my  tongue, 
Could  those  mild  morsels  in  numbers  chime, 
And  as  they  roll  in  substance,  roll  in  rhyme, 
No  more  thy  awkward  unpoetic  name, 
Should  shun  the  Muse,  or  prejudice  thy  fame ; 


4  HASTY-PUDDING, 

But,  rising  grateful  to  lh'  accustom'd  ear, 

All  bards  should  catch  it,  and  all  realms  revere  ! 

Assist  me  first  with  pious  toil  to  trace, 
Thro'  wrecks  of  time  thy  lineage  and  thy  race  ; 
Declare  what  lovely  squaw,  in  days  of  yore, 
(Ere  great  Columbus  sought  thy  native  shore,) 
-  First  gave  thee  to  the  world  ;  her  works  of  fame 
Have  liv'd  indeed,  but  liv'd  without  a  name. 
Some  tawny  Ceres,  goddess  of  her  days, 
First  learn'd  with  stones  to  crack  the  well-dry'd  maize, 
Thro'  the  rough  sieve  to  shake  the  golden  show'r, 
In  boiling  water  stir  the  yellow  flour — 
The  yellow  flour,  bestrew'd  and  stir'd  with  haste, 
Swells  in  the  flood  and  thickens  to  a  paste, 
Then  puffs  and  wallops,  rises  to  the  brim, 
Drinks  the  dry  knobs  that  on  the  surface  swim ; 
The  knobs  at  last  the  busy  ladle  breaks, 
And  the  whole  mass  its  true  consistence  takes. 

-     Could  but  her  sacred  name,  unknown  so  long, 

Rise  like  her  labours,  to  the  son  of  song, 

To  her,  to  them,  I'd  consecrate  my  lays, 

And  blow  her  pudding  with  the  breath  of  praise, 

If  'twas  Oello,  whom  I  sang  before, 

I  here  ascribe  her  one  great  virtue  more. 

Nor  thro'  the  rich  Peruvian  realms  alone 

The  fame  of  Sol's  sweet  daughter  should  be  known, 

But  o'er  the  world's  wide  climes  should  live  secure, 

Far  as  his  rays  extend,  as  long  as  they  endure. 

Dear  Hasty-Pudding,  what  unpromis'd  joy 
Expands  my  heart,  to  meet  thee  in  Savoy  ! 
Doom'd  o'er  the  world  thro'  devious  paths  to  roam, 
Each  clime  my  country,  and  each  house  my  home, 
My  soul  is  sooth'd,  my  cares  have  found  an  end, 
I  greet  my  long-lost,  unforgotten  friend. 

For  thee  thro'  Paris,  that  corrupted  town, 
How  long  in  vain  I  wander'd  up  and  down, 
Where  shameless  Bacchus,  with  his  drenching  hoard 
Cold  from  his  cave,  usurps  the  morning  board. 
London  is  lost  in  smoke  and  steep'd  in  tea ; 
No  Yankee  there  can  lisp  the  name  of  thee  ; 


HASTY-PUDDING.  » 

The  uncouth  word,  a  libel  on  the  town, 
Would  call  a  proclamation  from  the  crown.* 
From  climes  oblique,  that  fear  the  sun's  full  rays, 
Chill'd  in  their  fogs,  exclude  the  gen'rous  maize  ; 
A  grain  whose  rich  luxuriant  growth  requires 
Short  gentle  showers,  and  bright  etherial  fires. 

But  here,  tho'  distant  from  our  native  shore, 
With  mutual  glee  we  meet  and  laugh  once  more. 
The  same !  I  know  thee  by  that  yellow  face, 
That  strong  complexion  of  true  Indian  race, 
Which  time  can  never  change,  nor  soil  impair, 
Nor  Alpine  snows,  nor  Turkey's  morbid  air  ; 
For  endless  years,  thro'  every  mild  domain, 
Where  grows  the  maize,  there  thou  art  sure  to  reign. 

But  man,  more  fickle,  the  bold  license  claims, 
In  different  realms  to  give  thee  different  names. 
Thee  the  soft  nations  round  the  warm  Levant 
Polenta  call,  the  French,  of  course,  Polente  ; 
Ev'n  in  thy  native  regions,  how  I  blush 
To  hear  the  Pensylvanians  call  thee  Mush  ! 
On  Hudson's  banks,  while  men  of  Belgic  spawn 
Insult  and  eat  thee  by  the  name  Suppawn. 
All  spurious  appellations,  void  of  truth ; 
I've  better  known  thee  from  my  earliest  youth, 
Thy  name  is  Hasty-Pudding !  thus  our  sires 
Were  wont  to  greet  thee  fuming  from  their  fires ; 
And  while  they  argu'd  in  thy  just  defence 
With  logic  clear,  they  thus  explain'd  the  sense  : — 
"  In  haste  the  boiling  caldron  o'er  the  blaze, 
"  Receives  and  cooks  the  ready-powder'd  maize ; 
•"In  haste  'tis  serv'd  and  then  in  equal  haste, 
"  With  cooling  milk,  we  make  the  sweet  repast. 
"  No  carving  to  be  done,  no  knife  to  grate 
"  The  tender  ear,  and  wound  the  stony  plate  ; 
"  But  the  smooth  spoon,  just  fitted  to  the  lip, 
"  And  taught  with  art  the  yielding  mass  to  dip, 
"  By  frequent  journeys  to  the  bowl  well  stor'd 
"  Performs  the  hasty  honours  of  the  board." 
Such  is  thy  name,  significant  and  clear, 
A  name,  a  sound  to  every  Yankee  dear, 

*  A  certain  king,  at  the  time  when  this  was  written,  was  publishing  proclama- 
tions to  prevent  American  principles  from  being  propagated  in  his  country. 


\ 

6  HASTY-PUDDING. 

But  most  to  me,  whose  heart  and  palate  chaste 
Preserve  my  pure  hereditary  taste. 

There  are  who  strive  to  stamp  with  disrepute 
The  luscious  food,  because  it  feeds  the  brute ; 
In  tropes  of  high-strain'd  wit,  while  gaudy  prigs 
Compare  thy  nursling  man  to  pamper'd  pigs ; 
With  sovereign  scorn  I  treat  the  vulgar  jest, 
Nor  fear  to  share  thy  bounties  with  the  beast. 
What  tho'  the  gen'rous  cow  gives  me  to  quaff 
The  milk  nutritious ;   am  I  then  a  calf  ? 
Or  can  the  genius  of  the  noisy  swine, 
Tho'  nursed  on  pudding,  thence  lay  claim  to  mine  ? 
Sure  the  sweet  song,  I  fashion  to  thy  praise, 
Runs  more  melodious  than  the  notes  they  raise. 

My  song  resounding  in  its  grateful  glee, 
No  merit  claims  ;  I  praise  myself  in  thee. 
My  father  lov'd  thee  thro'  his  length  of  days  ! 
For  thee  his  fields  were  shaded  o'er  with  maize  ; 
From  thee  what  health,  what  vigour  he  possess'd, 
Ten  sturdy  freemen  sprung  from  him  attest ; 
Thy  constellation  rul'd  my  natal  morn, 
And  all  my  bones  were  made  of  Indian  corn. 
Delicious  grain  !  whatever  form  it  take, 
To  roast  or  boil,  to  smother  or  to  bake, 
In  every  dish  'tis  welcome  still  to  me, 
But  most,  my  Hasty-Pudding,  most  in  thee. 

Let  the  green  succotash  with  thee  contend, 
Let  beans  and  corn  their  sweetest  juices  blend, 
Let  butter  drench  them  in  its  yellow  tide, 
And  a  long  slice  of  bacon  grace  their  side ; 
Not  all  the  plate,  how  fam'd  soe'er  it  be, 
Can  please  my  palate  like  a  bowl  of  thee. 

Some  talk  of  Hoe-cake,  fair  Virginia's  pride, 
Rich  Johnny-cake  this  mouth  has  often  try'd ; 
Both  please  me  well,  their  virtues  much  the  same ; 
Alike  their  fabric  as  allied  their  fame, 
Except  in  dear  New  England,  where  the  last 
Receives  a  dash  of  pumpkin  in  the  paste, 
To  give  it  sweetness  and  improve  the  taste. 
But  place  them  all  before  me,  smoking  hot, 
The  big  round  dumpling  rolling  from  the  pot ; 


_ 


HASTY-PUDDING. 

The  pudding  of  the  bag,  whose  quiv'ring  breast. 
With  suet  lin'd,  leads  on  the  Yankee  feast ; 
The  Charlotte  brown,  within  whose  crusty  sides 
A  belly  soft  the  pulpy  apple  hides ; 
The  yellow  bread,  whose  face  like  amber  glows, 
And  all  of  Indian  that  the  bake-pan  knows — 
You  tempt  me  not — my  fav'rite  greets  my  eyes, 
To  that  lov'd  bowl  my  spoon  by  instinct  flies. 


CANTO  II. 

To  mix  the  food  by  vicious  rules  of  art, 
To  kill  the  stomach  and  to  sink  the  heart, 
To  make  mankind,  to  social  virtue  sour, 
Cram  o'er  each  dish,  and  be  what  they  devour ; 
From  this  kitchen  Muse  first  fram'd  her  book, 
Commanding  sweets  to  stream  from  every  cook ; 
Children  no  more  their  antic  gambols  tried, 
And  friends  to  physic  wonder'd  why  they  died. 
Not  so  the  Yankee — his  abundant  feast, 
With  simples  furnish'd,  and  with  plainness  dress'd, 
A  num'rous  offspring  gathers  round  the  board, 
And  cheers  alike  the  servant  and  the  lord ; 
Whose  well-bought  hunger  prompts  the  joyous  taste, 
And  health  attends  them  from  the  short  repast. 

While  the  full  pail  rewards  the  milk-maid's  toil, 
The  mother  sees  the  morning  caldron  boil  ; 
To  stir  the  pudding  next  demands  their  care, 
To  spread  the  table  and  the  bowls  prepare  ; 
To  feed  the  children,  as  their  portions  cool, 
And  comb  their  heads,  and  send  them  off  to  school. 

Yet  may  the  simplest  dish,  some  rules  impart, 
For  nature  scorns  not  all  the  aids  of  art. 
E'en  Hasty-Pudding,  purest  of  all  food, 
May  still  be  bad,  indifferent,  or  good, 
As  sage  experience  the  short  process  guides, 
Or  want  of  skill,  or  want  of  care  presides, 
Whoer'er  would  form  it  on  the  surest  plan, 
To  rear  the  child  and  long  sustain  the  man  ; 


HASTY-PUDDING. 

To  shield  the  morals  while  it  mends  the  size, 
And  all  the  powers  of  every  food  supplies — 
Attend  the  lessons  that  the  Muse  shall  bring, 
Suspend  your  spoons,  and  listen  while  I  sing. 

But  since,  0  man  !    thy  life  and  health  demand 
Not  food  alone,  but  labour  from  thy  hand, 
First  in  trie  field,  beneath  the  sun's  strong  rays, 
Ask  of  thy  mother,  earth  the  needful  maize ; 
She  loves  the  race  that  courts  her  yielding  soil, 
And  gives  her  bounties  to  the  sons  of  toil. 

When  now  the  ox  obedient  to  thy  call, 
Repays  the  loan  that  fill'd  the  winter  stall, 
Pursue  his  traces  o'er  the  furrow'd  plain, 
And  plant  in  measur'd  hills  the  golden  grain. 
But  when  the  tender  germ  begins  to  shoot, 
And  the  green  spire  declares  the  sprouting  root, 
Then  guard  your  nursling  from  each  greedy  foe, 
Th'  insidious  worm,  the  all-devouring  crow. 
A  little  ashes,  sprinkled  round  the  spire, 
Soon  steep'd  in  rain,  will  bid  the  worm  retire ; 
The  feather'd  robber  with  his  hungry  maw 
Swift  flies  the  field  before  your  man  of  straw, 
A  frightful  image,  such  as  school-boys  bring 
When  met  to  burn  the  Pope,  or  hang  the  King. 

Thrice  in  the  season,  thro'  each  verdant  row 
Wield  the  strong  plough-share  and  the  faithful  hoe — 
The  faithful  hoe,  a  double  task  that  takes, 
To  till  the  summer  corn,  and  roast  the  winter  cakes. 

Slow  springs  the  blade,  while  eheck'd  by  chilling  rains, 
Ere  yet  the  sun  the  seat  of  Cancer  gains ; 
But  when  his  fiercest  fires  emblaze  the  land, 
Then  start  the  juices,  then  the  roots  expand  ; 
Then,  like  a  column  of  Corinthian  mould, 
The  stalk  struts  upward,  and  the  leaves  unfold ; 
The  bushy  branches  all  the  ridges  fill, 
Entwine  their  arms,  and  kiss  from  hill  to  hill. 
Here  cease  to  vex  them,  all  your  cares  are  done  ; 
Leave  the  last  labours  to  the  parent  sun ; 
Beneath  his  genial  smiles  the  well-dress'd  field, 
When  autumn  calls,  a  plenteous  crop  shall  yield. 


HASTY-PUDDING. 

Now  the  strong  foliage  bears  the  standards  high, 
And  shoots  the  tall  top-gallants  to  the  sky ; 
The  suckling  ears  their  silky  fringes  bend, 
And  pregnant  grown,  their  swelling  coats  distend ; 
The  loaded  stalk,  while  still  the  burthen  grows, 
O'erhangs  the  space  that  runs  between  the  rows  ;m 
High  as  a  hop-field  waves  the  silent  grove, 
A  safe  retreat  for  little  thefts  of  love, 
When  the  pledg'd  roasting-ears  invite  the  maid, 
To  meet  her  swain  beneath  the  new-form'd  shade  ; 
His  gen'rous  hand  unloads  the  cumbrous  hill, 
And  the  green  spoils  her  ready  basket  fill ; 
Small  compensation  for  the  two-fold  bliss, 
The  promis'd  wedding  and  the  present  kiss. 

Slight  depredations  these  ;  but  now  the  moon 
Calls  from  his  hollow  tree  the  sly  racoon ; 
x4nd  while  by  night  he  bears  his  prize  away, 
The  bolder  squirrel  labours  thro'  the  day. 
Both  thieves  alike,  but  provident  of  time, 
A  virtue,  rare,  that  almost  hides  their  crime. 
Then  let  them  steal  the  little  stores  they  can, 
And  fill  their  gran'ries  from  the  toils  of  man ; 
We've  one  advantage  where  they  take  no  part, — 
With  all  their  wiles  they  ne'er  have  found  the  art 
To  boil  the  Hasty-Pudding ;  here  we  shine 
Superior  far  to  tenants  of  the  pine  ; 
This  envied  boon  to  man  shall  still  belong, 
Unshar'd  by  them  in  substance  or  in  song. 

At  last  the  closing  season  browns  the  plain, 
And  ripe  October  gathers  in  the  grain  ; 
Deep-loaded  carts  the  spacious  corn-house  fill, 
The  sack  distended  marches  to  the  mill ; 
The  lab'ring  mill  beneath  the  burden  groans, 
And  show'rs  the  future  pudding  from  the  stones  ; 
Till  the  glad  house-wife  greets  the  powder'd  gold, 
And  the  new  crop  exterminates  the  old. 


CANTO  III. 

The  days  grow  short;  but  tho'  the  falling  sun 
To  the  glad  swain  proclaims  his  day's  work  done, 
1* 


10  HASTY-PUDDING. 

Night's  pleasing  shades  his  various  tasks  prolong, 
And  yield  new  subjects  to  my  various  song. 
For  now,  the  corn-house  fill'd,  the  harvest  home, 
Th'  invited  neighbours  to  the  Husking  come ; 
A  frolic  scene,  where  work,  and  mirth,  and  play, 
Unite  their  charms,  to  chase  the  hours  away. 

Where  the  huge  heap  lies  centr'd  in  the  hall, 
The  lamp  suspended  from  the  cheerful  wall, 
Brown  corn-fed  nymphs,  and  strong  hard-handed  beaux 
Alternate  rang'd,  extend  in  circling  rows, 
Assume  their  seats,  the  solid  mass  attack ; 
The  dry  husks  rustle,  and  the  corn-cobs  crack ; 
The  song,  the  laugh,  alternate  notes  resound, 
And  the  sweet  cider  tripsin  silence  round. 

The  laws  of  husking  ev'ry  wight  can  tell ; 
And  sure  no  laws  he  ever  keeps  so  well ; 
For  each  red  ear  a  gen'ral  kiss  he  gains, 
With  each  smut  ear  she  smuts  the  luckless  swains  ; 
But  when  to  some  sweet  maid  a  prize  is  cast, 
Red  as  her  lips,  and  taper  as  her  waist, 
She  walks  around,  and  culls  one  favour'd  beau, 
Who  leaps,  the  luscious  tribute  to  bestow. 
Various  the  sport,  as  are  the  wits  and  brains 
Of  well-pleas'd  lasses  and  contending  swains ; 
Till  the  vast  mound  of  corn  is  swept  away, 
And  he  that  gets  the  last  ear,  wins  the  day. 

Meanwhile  the  house-wife  urges  all  her  care, 
The  well-earned  feast  to  hasten  and  prepare. 
The  sifted  meal  already  waits  her  hand, 
The  milk  is  strain'd,  the  bowls  in  order  stand, 
The  fire  flames  high ;  and,  as  a  pool  (that  takes 
The  head-long  stream  that  o'er  the  mill-dam  breaks) 
Foams,  roars  and  rages  with  incessant  toils, 
So  the  vex'd  caldron  rages,  roars,  and  boils. 

First,  with  clean  salt  she  seasons  well  the  food, 
Then  stews  the  flour  and  thickens  all  the  flood. 
Long  o'er  the  sim'ring  fire  she  lets  it  stand  ; 
To  stir  it  well  demands  a  stronger  hand  ; 
The  husband  takes  his  turn  ;  and  round  and  round 
The  ladle  flies ;  at  last  the  toil  is  crown'd ; 
When  to  the  board  the  thronging  huskers  pour, 
And  take  their  seats  as  at  the  corn  before. 


HASTY-PUDDING,  |(] 

I  leave  them  to  their  feast.     There  still  belong 
More  copious  matters  to  my  faithful  song. 
For  rules  there  are,  tho'  ne'er  unfolded  yet, 
Nice  rules  and  wise,  how  pudding  should  be  ate. 

Some  with  molasses  line  the  luscious  treat, 
And  mix,  like  bards,  the  useful  with  the  sweet. 
A  wholesome  dish,  and  well  deserving  praise, 
A  great  resource  in  those  bleak  wintry  days,' 
Wlien  the  chill'd  earth  lies  buried  deep  in  snowj 
And  raging  Boreas  drives  the  shiv'ring  cow. 

Blest  cow !  thy  praise  shall  still  my  notes  employ, 
Great  source  of  health,  the  only  source  of  joy ; 
How  oft  thy  teats  these  pious  hands  have  press'd  ! 
How  oft  thy  bounties  prove  my  only  feast ! 
How  oft  I've  fed  thee  with  my  fav'rite  grain ! 
And  roar'd,  like  thee,  to  find  thy  children  slain  ! 

Ye  swains  who  know  her  various  worth  to  prize, 
Ah  !  house  her  well  from  winter's  angry  skies. 
Potatoes,  pumpkins,  should  her  sadness  cheer, 
Corn  from  your  crib,  and  mashes  from  your  beer ; 
When  spring  returns  she'll  well  acquit  the  loan, 
And  nurse  at  once  your  infants  and  her  own. 

Milk,  then,  with  pudding,  I  should  always  choose ; 
To  this  in  future  I  confine  my  Muse, 
Till  she  in  haste  some  future  hints  unfold, 
Well  for  the  young,  nor  useless  to  the  old. 
First  in  your  bowl  the  milk  abundant  take, 
Then  drop  with  care  along  the  silver  lake 
Your  flakes  of  pudding  ;  these  at  first  will  hide 
Their  little  bulk  beneath  the  swelling  tide  ; 
But  when  their  growing  mass  no  more  can  sink ; 
When  the  soft  island  looms  above  the  brink, 
Then  check  your  hand ;  you've  got  the  portion's  due, 
So  taught  our  sires  and  what  they  taught  is  true. 

There  is  a  choice  in  spoons.     Tho'  small  appear 
The  nice  distinction,  yet  to  me  'tis  clear, 
The  deep  bowl'd  Gallic  spoon,  contriv'd  to  scoop 
In  ample  draughts  the  thin  diluted  soup, 
Performs  not  well  in  those  substantial  things, 
Whose  mass  adhesive  to  the  metal  clings; 


12  HASTY-PUDDING. 

Where  the  strong  labial  muscles  must  embrace, 
The  gentle  curve,  and  sweep  the  hollow  space. 
With  ease  to  enter  and  discharge  the  freight, 
A  bowl  less  concave  but  still  more  dilate, 
Becomes  the  pudding  best.     The  shape,  the  size, 
A  secret  rests  unknown  to  vulgar  eyes ; 
Experienc'd  feeders  can  alone  impart 
A  rule  so  much  above  the  lore  of  art. 
These  tuneful  lips,  that  thousand  spoons  have  tried, 
1  With  just  precision  could  the  point  decide, 
Tho'  not  in  song ;  the  muse  but  poorly  shines 
In  cones  and  cubes,  and  geometric  lines. 
Yet  the  true  form,  as  near  as  she  can  tell, 
Is  that  small  section  of  a  goose  egg-shell, 
Which  in  two  equal  portions  shall  divide 
The  distance  from  the  centre  to  the  side. 

Fear  not  to  slaver;  'tis  no  deadly  sin, 
Like  the  free  Frenchman,  from  your  joyous  chin 
Suspend  the  ready  napkin  ;  or,  like  me, 
Poise  with  one  hand  your  bowl  upon  your  knee  ; 
Just  in  the  zenith  your  wise  head  project, 
Your  full  spoon,  rising  in  a  line  direct, 
Bold  as  a  bucket,  heeds  no  drops  that  fall, 
The  wide-mouth'd  bowl  will  surely  catch  them  all. 


MAIZE  OR  INDIAN  CORN 


INDIAN    CORN. 


Synonymes . 

Zea  mays,  Of  Botanists. 

Maize,  Indian  Corn,  Britain  and  Anglo-America. 

MaVs  mt   dlndicBl*  j  France 

de  lurquie,  ) 
Maiz,  Trigo  de  Indias,       Spain. 

Grano  d'India,  Grano  ) 

Turco,  >  Italy. 

Grano  Sicihano,  ) 

Maiz,  Milho  da  India,  )  r>^  t» 

Milho  grande,  j  Portugal  and  Brazil. 

Mais,  Tiirkischer  Korn,  Germany. 

Mays,  Turksch  Koorn,  Holland. 

Turkish  Hvede,  Sweeden  and  Denmark. 

Tureskoichljeb,  Russia. 

Derivations. — The  generic  name  Zea  is  derived  from  the  Greek  zao,  to  live, 
from  the  nutritive  qualities  of  this,  or  some  other  kind  of  corn  formerly  culti- 
vated in  Greece  or  on  the  adjacent  Archipelago.  The  word  mays,  and  all  its 
derivatives,  according  to  Clavigero,  have  been  derived  from  the  denomination  of 
this  vegetable  in  the  Haitina  language,  or  that  of  Hispaniola ;  but  by  others,  it 
is  thought  to  come  from  the  Lettish  and  Livonic  mayse,  which  signifies  bread 
in  those  languages.  The  European  names  Ble  $Indie,  Trigo  de  Indias,  etc., 
have  been  so  called  on  account  of  this  grain  having  first  been  brought  by  Colum- 
bus from  America,  which  was  kuown  at  that  time  by  the  name  of  the  "  Indies  ;" 
and  those  names  signifying  "  Turkish  Corn,"  took  their  origin  from  the  circum- 
stance that  the  cultivation  of  this  plant  spread  from  Turkey  to  the  neighbouring 
countries,  and  consequently  led  some  writers  to  believe  that  it  first  came  from 
the  East. 

Description. 

The  fruitful  maize,  in  verdant  vistas  rear'd, 

Its  spire  majestic,  to  the  playful  breeze, 

Spreading  its  loosely- waving  panicles,  while  low 

The  purple  anthers  bending  o'er  to  kiss 

The  silken,  tassel'd  styles,  delight  the  eye 

Of  watchful  Ceres.  Traits  of  the  Aborigines. 

Maize,  or  Indian  Corn,  consists  of  several  varieties 
which  are  thought  to  owe  their  distinctive  charac- 
ters to  the  accidental  modifications  of  climate,  soil,  and 


16  MEMOIR    ON 

culture,  rather  than  to  any  original  differences.  The 
plant  is  described  by  botanists,  as  a  strong,  reedy, 
jointed  stalk,  provided  with  large  alternate  leaves, 
almost  like  flags,  springing  from  every  joint.  The  top 
produces  a  bunch  of  male  flowers,  of  various  colours, 
which  is  called  the  tassel.  Each  plant  bears,  likewise, 
one  or  more  spikes  or  ears,  seldom  so  few  as  one,  and 
rarely  more  than  four  or  five,  the  most  usual  number 
being  three  ;  as  many  as  seven  have  been  seen  occa- 
sionally on  one  stalk.  These  ears  proceed  from  the 
stalk  at  various  distances  from  the  ground,  and  are 
closely  enveloped  by  several  thin  leaves,  forming  a 
sheath,  which  is  called  the  husk.  The  ears  consist  of  a 
cylindrical  substance,  of  the  nature  of  a  pith,  which  is 
called  the  cob,  over  the  entire  surface  of  which  the 
seeds  are  ranged,  and  fixed  in  eight  or  more  straight 
rows,  each  row  having  generally  as  many  as  thirty  or 
more  seeds.  The  eyes,  or  germs  of  the  seeds,  are  in 
nearly  radial  lines  from  the  centre  of  the  cylinder  ;  from 
these  eyes  proceed  individual  filaments  of  a  silky  ap- 
pearance, and  of  a  bright-green  colour  ;  the  aggregate  of 
these  hang  out  from  the  point  of  the  husk,  in  a  thick 
cluster,  and  in  this  state  are  called  the  silk.  It  is  the 
office  of  these  filaments,  which  are  the  stigmata,  to 
receive  the  farina,  which  drops  from  the  flowers  on  the 
top  or  tassel,  and  without  which  the  ears  would  pro- 
duce no  seed, — a  fact  which  has  been  established  by 
cutting  off  the  top  previous  to  the  development  of  its 
flowers,  when  the  ears  proved  wholly  barren.  So  soon 
as  their  office  has  been  thus  performed,  both  the  tassel 
and  the  silk  dry  up,  and  put  on  a  withered  appearance. 

The  grains  of  maize  are  of  different  colours,  the  pre- 
vailing hue  being  yellow  of  various  shades,  sometimes 
approaching  to  white,  and  at  other  times  deepening  to 
red.  Some  are  of  a  deep  chocolate-colour,  others  green- 
ish or  olive-coloured,  and  even  the  same  ears  will  some- 
times contain  grains  of  different  colours. 

Geography  and  History. — Indian  Corn,  when  due 
regard  is  paid  to  the  selection  of  varieties,  may  be 
accounted  as  a  sure  crop,  in  almost  every  portion  of  the 


INDIAN    CORN.  17 

habitable  globe,  between  the  forty- third  degree  of  north 
latitude,  and  a  corresponding  parallel  south.  Its  prin- 
ciple culture  is  confined  to  the  United  States,  Mexico, 
the  West  In|ies,  and  most  of  the  states  of  South 
America.  It  is  also  cultivated  with  success  in  Spain, 
Portugal,  Lombardy,  and  may  be  grown  in  southern 
Europe  generally.  It  is  likewise  found  to  thrive  in 
India,  China,  Japan,  Australia,  the  Sandwich  Islands, 
as  well  as  in  the  groups  of  the  Azores,  the  Madeiras, 
Canaries,  and  numerous  other  ocean  isles. 

Roulin,  Humboldt,  Bonpland,  and  others,  have 
noticed  this  plant  in  its  indigenous  state  in  America, 
and  hence  have  concluded  that  it  was  first  derived  from 
this  country.  Mathioli,  Cie§a,  Zeri,  and  Inca  Garci- 
lasso,  have  also  confirmed  this  opinion.  Fuchs,  on  the 
contrary,  very  early  maintained  that  it  came  from  the 
East.  Michaud,  Daru,  and  Bonafous,  state  that  it  was 
known  in  Asia  Minor  before  the  discovery  of  America  ; 
and  Crawford,  in  his  "  History  of  the  Indian  Archi- 
pelago," tells  us  that  maize  was  cultivated  by  the  in- 
habitants of  these  islands,  under  the  name  of  djagoungy 
long  before  that  period.  In  the  "  Natural  History  of 
China,"  composed  by  Li-Chi  Tchin,  towards  the  middle 
of  the  XVIth  century,  a  rude  figure  is  given  of  the 
Zea  mays,  under  the  title  of  la-chou-cha  ;  and  Rifaud, 
in  his  "  Voyage  en  Egypte,  &c,  from  1805  to  1807," 
observes,  that  he  discovered  this  grain  in  a  subterranean 
excavation  in  a  remarkably  good  state  of  preservation. 
M.  Virey,  however,  in  the  "  Journal  de  Pharmacie," 
refutes  these  statements,  by  showing  that  these  authors 
have  mistaken  the  Indian  millet  ( Sorghum  vulgare)  for 
maize,  and  that  the  grain  found  by  Rifaud,  was  the 
Sorghum  bicolor,  which,  according  to  Delile,  is  a  native 
of  Egypt.  Regmir  and  Gregory  attempt  to  present 
fresh  arguments  in  favour  of  the  Eastern  origin  of  this 
plant.  Among  them  is  the  name  by  which  it  has  long 
been  known  in  Europe,  Ble  de  Turquie ;  and  varieties 
of  it,  they  state,  have  been  brought  from  the  Isle  of 
France,  or  from  China.  Moreau  de  Jonnes,  on  the 
contrary,  has  more  recently  maintained  in  a  memoir 
9 


18  MEMOIR    ON 

read  before  the  Academy  of  Sciences,  at  Paris,  that  it* 
origin  was  in  America.  The  name  Ble  de  Turquie,  no 
more  proves  it  to  be  of  Turkish  origin,  than  the  name 
of  the  English  Horse  Bean  proves  that  that  plant 
originally  grew  wild  in  Britain.  The  general  cultiva- 
tion of  maize,  in  southern  Europe,  and  the  production 
of  some  new  varieties,  proves  nothing  with  regard  to 
the  origin  of  the  species.  Nor,  where  it  occurs  in  the 
East,  there  is  no  proof  of  its  having  been  carried  there 
previously  to  the  discovery  of  America. 

In  favour  of  the  American  origin  of  maize,  is  the  fact 
that  it  was  found  in  a  state  of  cultivation  in  most  of 
the  places  where  the  first  navigators  landed.  Colum- 
bus discovered  it  on  the  Island  of  Cuba,  and  other 
points,  where  he  touched  on  his  first  voyage  to  America, 
Vasco  Nunez,  in  Guiana,  Amadas  and  Barlow,  in 
Florida,  and  Gongalo  Ximines,  in  New  Granada, — the 
latter  of  whom,  says,  u  The  principal  food  of  the  natives 
was  Maiz  and  Cassave,  which  first  grows  on  stalks 
of  the  size  of  canes,  bearing  very  large  and  weighty 
spikes  or  ears,  each  generally  yielding  seven  hundred 
grains — a  bushel  of  which,  when  planted  in  warm, 
moist  land,  frequently  produces  three  hundred  fold. 
The  maize  is  distinguished  into  a  coarser  and  a  finer 
sort,  which  last  is  called  Moroche,  the  leaves  and 
stalks  affording  wholesome  provender  for  horses,  and 
the  grains  or  kernels,  bread  for  the  inhabitants,  who 
make  it  several  ways ;  for  sometimes  they  boil  the 
corn  in  water,  and  at  other  times,  parch  it  in  ashes, 
or  grind  it  into  flour,  which,  when  kneaded  into 
dough,  they  make  into  cakes,  biscuits,  etc.  More- 
over, maize  steeped  in  water,  boiled,  and  afterwards 
fermented,  makes  a  very  strong  liquor." 
All  the  early  historians,  both  of  North  and  South 
America,  give  the  strongest  testimony  that  this  grain 
is  of  American  origin,  and  speak  of  it  as  having  consti- 
tuted a  great  part  of  the  food  of  the  Indians  from  time 
immemorial. 

Inca  Garcilasso  de  la  Vega,  in  treating  of  the  pro- 
ducts of  Peru,  says,  "  Of  the  fruits  that  grow  above 


INDIAN    CORN.  19 

"  ground,  the  chief  and  principal,  is  that  grain  which 
"  the  people  of  Mexico  and  Barlovento  call  Mayz,  and 
"  those  of  Peru,  Cara,  being  the  only  bread  they  use. 
"  And  this  is  of  two  sorts,  one  called  Muruchu,  which 
"  is  hard,  and  the  other  Capia,  which  is  tender  and 
"  fine,  and  is  eaten  as  bread,  either  boiled,  baked,  or 
"  parched,  over  the  fire.  The  hard  kind  is  that  which 
"  has  been  brought  to  Spain,  but  not  the  fine  and  tender 
"sort."  The  corn  of  the  Incas,  he  says,  was  ground  by 
women,  between  two  broad  stones  in  the  form  of  a  half 
moon,  from  the  flour  of  which,  they  made  a  kind  of 
hasty-pudding,  called  Api,  a  great  dish  among  them, 
esteemed  as  high  feeding,  but  was  not  common  at  every 
meal.  He  mentions  another  kind  of  bread,  made  of 
maize,  called  Caray  upon  which  he  was  nourished  for 
nine  or  ten  years.  This  consisted  of  three  sorts, 
namely,  Cancu,  used  only  for  sacrifice  ;  Huminta,  for 
feasts  and  great  entertainments  ;  and  Tanta  or  bread 
of  common  use.  Boiled  cara  they  called  Muti,  which 
is  also  the  name  of  boiled  corn.  The  virgins  or  wives 
of  the  Sun,  were  employed  in  the  evening  in  kneading 
great  quantities  of  dough,  which  they  formed  into 
small  round  cakes  that  were  eaten  by  the  Indians  only 
at  the  feasts  of  Raymi  and  Citua  ;  for,  at  other  times, 
they  never  eat  their  maize  kneaded  into  bread,  nor  did 
they  eat  it  at  their  meals,  with  the  exception  of  two  or 
three  mouthfuls  at  the  beginning.  Their  physicians 
prescribed  no  other  diet  to  their  sick  than  what  was 
made  of  maize.  They  also  made  plasters  or  poultices 
of  it,  which  they  applied  for  the  relief  of  aches,  colics, 
and  other  pains.  Of  the  flour  of  maize,  mixed  with 
water,  the  Indians  brewed  their  common  beverage, 
which,  by  a  certain  process,  they  were  able  to  convert 
into  an  excellent  vinegar.  Of  the  stalks,  before  the 
maize  was  ripe,  they  made  a  kind  of  honey,  and  some, 
who  loved  to  be  drunk,  lay  their  corn  steeping  in 
water,  until  germination  took  place,  and  then,  after 
grinding,  boiled  it  in  the  same  water,  drawed  it  off,  and 
kept  it  until  stale.  This  was  the  strongest  drink  the 
Peruvians  had,  which  was  called,  in  their  language, 


20 


MEMOIR    ON 


Vinnapu,  and  by  some  of  the  neighbouring  tribes,  Sora, 
From  its  intoxicating  effects,  its  use  was  prohibited  by 
the  Incas,  who  made  it  a  penal  offence  with   all  who 
drank  to  excess. 

Francisco  Saverio  Clavigero,  in  describing  the  grain 
of  Mexico,  says,  "  The  chief,  the  most  useful,  and  most 
il  common,  was  the  maize,  called  by  the  Indians  Tluolli^ 
"  of  which  there  are  several  varieties,  differing  in  size, 
"  colour,  weight,  and  taste.  There  is  the  large  and  the 
"  small  sort,  the  white,  the  yellow,  the  blue,  and  the 
"  black. » 

Captain  John  Smith,  in  his  account  of  the  Indians 
of  Virginia,  says,  u  The  greatest  labour  they  take,  is 
in  planting  their  corne,  for  the  country  naturally  is 
overgrowne  with  wood.  To  prepare  the  ground,  they 
bruise  the  barke  of  the  trees  neare  the  root,  then  doe 
they  scortch  the  roots  with  fire  that  they  grow  no 
more.  The  next  yeare  with  a  crooked  peece  of  wood 
they  beat  vp  the  weeds  by  the  rootes,  and  in  that 
mould  they  plant  their  corne.  Their  manner  is  this. 
They  make  a  hole  in  the  earth  with  a  sticke,  and  into 
it  they  put  foure  graines  of  wheate  (maize),  and  two 
of  beanes.  These  holes  they  make  foure  foote  one 
from  another.  Their  women  and  children  do  con- 
tinually keepe  it  with  weeding,  and  when  it  is  growne 
middle  high,  they  hill  it  about  like  a  hop-yard.  In 
Aprill  they  begin  to  plant,  but  their  chiefe  planta- 
tion is  in  May,  and  so  they  continue  till  the  midst 
of  Iune.  What  they  plant  in  Aprill,  they  reape  in 
August :  for  May  in  September ;  for  Iune  in  Octo- 
ber. Every  stalke  of  their  corne  commonly  beareth 
two  eares,  some  three,  seldome  any  foure,  many  but 
one,  and  some  none.  Every  eare  ordinarily  hath 
betwixt  200  and  500  graines.  The  stalke  being 
greene  hath  a  sweet  iuice  in  it,  somewhat  like  sugar- 
cane, which  is  the  cause  that  when  they  gather  their 
corne  greene,  they  sucke  the  stalkes  ;  for  as  we  gather 
greene  pease,  so  doe  they  their  corne,  being  greene, 
which  excelleth  their  old.  *****  Their  corne 
they  rost  in  the  eare  greene,  and  bruising  it  in  morter 


INDIAN    CORN.  21 

"  of  wood  with  a  polt,  lap  it  inrowles  in  the  leaues  of 
"  their  corne,  and  so  boyle  it  for  a  daintie.  They  also 
il  reserue  that  corne  late  planted  that  will  not  ripe,  by 
lt  roasting  it  in  hot  ashes,  the  heat  thereof  drying  it. 
"  In  winter  they  esteeme  it  being  boyled  with  beanes 
"for  a  rare  dish,  they  call  Pausarowmena.  Their  old 
"  wheat  (maize)  they  first  steepe  a  night  in  hot  water, 
"  in  the  morning  pounding  it  in  a  morter.  They  vse  a 
ct  small  basket  for  their  temmes  (sieve),  then  pound 
u  againe  the  great,  and  so  separating  by  dashing  their 
"  hand  in  the  basket,  receiue  the  flower  in  a  platter  made 
"  of  wood,  scraped  to  that  forme  with  burning  and 
"  shels.  Tempering  this  flower  with  water,  they  make 
"  it  either  in  cakes,  covering  them  with  ashes  till  they 
"  be  baked,  and  then  washing  them  in  faire  water,  they 
"  drie  presently  with  their  owne  heat  :  or  else  boyle 
tl  them  in  water,  eating  the  broth  with  the  bread  which 
11  they  call  Ponap.  The  groutes  and  peeces  of  the 
"  comes  remaining,  by  fanning  in  a  platter  or  in  the 
"  wind,  away,  the  branne  they  boyle  3  or  4  houres  with 
"  water,  which  is  an  ordinary  food  they  call  Vstata- 
u  hamen.  But  some  more  thriftie  then  cleanly,  doe 
"  burne  the  core  (cob)  of  the  eare  to  powder,  which 
"  they  call  Pungnoughj  mingling  that  in  their  meale, 
"  but  it  never  tasted  well  in  bread,  nor  broth." 

Mr.  Schoolcraft,  in  his  late  Report,  says,  that  it  is 
conceded  on  all  hands,  that  this  is  a  tropical,  or  at  least, 
a  southern  plant.  He  remarks,  that  it  was  not  known 
in  Europe  before  the  discovery  of  this  country,  and 
that  we  learned  the  mode  of  cultivation  from  the 
Indians,  and  not  they  from  us.  It  was  cultivated  by 
the  Iroquois  in  fields  sufficiently  large  to  entitle 
them  to  the  name  of  agriculturists.  It  was  un- 
doubtedly highly  prized  by  them,  as  an  essential 
article  of  support,  as  Mr.  Schoolcraft  states  that  the 
warriors  of  the  Six  Nations  were  in  the  habit  of  under- 
taking journeys  of  thousands  of  miles  in  extent,  carry- 
ing no  other  food  than  a  little  meal  from  parched  and 
pounded  corn,  relying  on  the  forest  for  meat.  One 
tablespoonful  of  this  meal,  mixed  with  a  little  sugar 


22 


MEMOIR    ON 


and  water,  will  sustain  a  warrior  for  twenty-four  hours, 
without  meat. 

In  further  proof  of  the  American  origin  of  maize,  it 
may  be  stated,  that  it  is  still  found  in  an  indigenous 
state  from  the  Rocky  Mountains,  in  North  America, 
to  the  humid  forests  of  Paraguay ;  where,  instead  of 
having  each  grain  naked,  as  is  always  the  case  after 
long  cultivation,  they  are  completely  covered  with 
glumes  or  husks.  Although  there  has  been  much  writ- 
ten upon  the  Eastern  origin  of  this  grain,  it  did  not 
grow  in  that  part  of  India  watered  by  the  Indus,  at  the 
time  of  Alexander  the  Great's  expedition,  as  it  is  not 
mentioned  by  Nearchus,  the  commander  of  the  fleet, 
among  the  productions  of  that  country.  It  is  not 
noticed  by  Arrian,  Diodorus,  or  Columella ;  and  even 
so  late  as  the  year  1471,  Joan.  Cuba,  in  his  "  Ortus 
Sanitatis,"  a  very  curious  treatise  on  plants,  trees,  ani- 
mals, stones,  &c,  does  not  make  the  least  mention  of  it. 
Neither  has  it  ever  been  found  in  any  ancient  tumulus, 
sarcophagus,  or  pyramid  ;  nor  has  it  ever  been  repre- 
sented in  any  ancient  painting,  sculpture,  or  work  of 
art,  except  in  America  !  But  in  this  country,  according 
to  Garcilasso,  the  palace  gardens  of  the  Incas  in  Peru, 
were  ornamented  with  images  of  gold  and  silver,  of  all 
manner  of  beasts,  birds,  trees,  flowers,  and  fruit.  Some 
of  the  trees  appeared  in  blossom,  some  with  their  fruit 
partially  or  fully  grown,  and  in  others  it  appeared  quite 
ripe,  according  to  the  several  seasons  of  the  year. 
Tbey  also  imitated  the  maize,  with  all  its  grains,  spikes, 
stalks,  and  leaves  ;  and  in  one  instance,  in  the  "  Gar- 
den of  Gold  and  Silver,"  there  was  an  entire  cornfield, 
of  considerable  size,  represented  with  the  corn  in  its 
exact  and  natural  shape. 

The  introduction  of  maize  into  Europe,  probably 
dates  back  to  the  time  soon  after  Columbus  discovered 
America ;  but  little  attention  appears  to  have  been  paid 
there,  either  to  its  culture  or  use,  until  toward  the 
close  of  the  last  century.  An  amusing,  and  in  many 
respects,  an  instructive  work,  was  published  some  years 
since,  by  William  Cobbett,  upon  the  merits  of  Indian 


INDIAN    CORN.  23 

corn,  whose  sanguine  wishes  upon  the  subject  of  its 
introduction  as  a  field  crop  into  England,  led  him 
farther  than  most  people  have  been  inclined  to  accom- 
pany him.  A  cotemporary  writer  remarks  that,  "Cob- 
bett  was  corn-mad  at  one  time.  He  saw  too  soon  by 
twenty  years,  and  depended  on  cultivation,  rather  than 
importation.  He  wrote  about  Indian  corn,  planted 
Indian  corn,  raised  Indian  corn,  ate  Indian  corn,  made 
paper  of  Indian  corn  husks,  and  printed  a  book  from 
the  Indian  corn  paper."  There  is  to  be  seen  in  this 
work  a  very  minute  and  interesting  account  of  the 
various  manipulations  which  must  be  attended  to  by 
the  maize-grower  before  his  grain  is  ready  for  sale,  as 
well  as  very  particular  directions  for  turning  the  pro- 
duce to  the  best  and  most  profitable  account  in  domestic 
economy. 

The  most  important  feature,  perhaps,  in  the  history 
of  maize,  is  its  late  introduction  from  the  United  States 
into  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  as  a  cheap  and  nutri- 
tious article  of  human  food.  For  this  partriotic  and 
philanthropic  act,  these  two  nations  are  highly  in- 
debted to  the  simultaneous  exertions  of  our  friend  and 
countrymen,  Henry  Coleman,  Esquire,  who  has  been 
engaged  for  several  years  'in  making  an  agricultural 
tour  in  Europe,  and  Dr.  John  S.  Bartlett,  late  of  the 
British  army,  the  latter  of  whom,  addressed  a  letter  on 
the  subject,  in  May,  1842,  to  Lord  Ashburton,  in  which 
he  arrives  at  the  following  deductions  : — 

1st.  That  the  labouring  classes  and  the  poor  of 
Great  Britain  require  a  cheaper  article  of  food  than 
wheaten  bread. 

2nd.  That  although  wheat  contains  a  larger  portion 
of  gluten  or  the  nutritive  ingredient,  bulk  is  necessary, 
not  only  to  satisfy  the  craving  of  hunger,  but  to  pro- 
mote digestion  by  the  u  stimulus  of  distension,"  which 
bulk  alone  can  give. 

3rd.  That  the  craving  of  hunger  being  removed  or 
alleviated  by  the  quantity  taken,  the  mind  is  more  at 
ease  ;  the  mental  irritability  consequent  upon  hunger 
is  assuaged,  and  man  goes  to  his  labour  with  cheer- 


24 


MEMOIR    ON 


fulness  and  vivacity,  becoming  a  more  peaceful  citizen 
and  perhaps  a  better  man. 

4th.  That  maize  possesses  a  great  superiority  over 
rye,  barley,  oatmeal,  or  potatoes — not  that  it  contains 
a  greater  quantity  of  gluten,  but  that  its  constituent 
parts  are  better  proportioned,  and  consequently  make 
a  better  article  of  food. 

5th.  That,  admitted  into  England  duty  free,  it 
would  be  a  cheaper  article  of  food  than  any  of  those 
above  named,  besides  being  vastly  superior  to  them  in 
nutritive  and  healthful  properties. 

6th.  That  it  can  be  obtained  in  any  quantities  from 
all  parts  of  the  United  States,  and  particularly  from  the 
middle  and  southern  states,  on  the  Atlantic  sea-board 
— as  New  York,  New  Jersey,  Pennsylvania,  Maryland, 
Virginia,  and  North  Carolina,  whose  proximity  to  the 
sea  and  ports  of  shipment,  give  them  great  advantages 
by  saving  inland  conveyance.  The  whole  valley  of  the 
Mississippi  also  yields  it  in  abundance. 

7th.  That  the  people  of  all  parts  of  the  United 
States  are  consumers  of  British  manufactures  ;  for  in 
spite  of  national  asperities,  they  adopt  the  habits, 
tastes,  fashions,  and  dress  of  their  English  ancestors. 
This,  I  think,  is  a  natural  feeling  in  the  human 
breast,  for  I  never  yet  knew  a  son  who  was  offended  by 
being  told  that  he  resembled  his  parent.  The  imported 
grain  then  would  be  paid  for  in  the  products  of  British 
industry. 

8th.  That  the  rapidly  increasing  population  and 
limited  superficial  surface  of  the  British  Isles,  will 
speedily  render  a  foreign  supply  of  grain  necessary  even 
in  the  most  productive  seasons — and  consequently  a 
reduction  of  duties  must  ensue  ;  it  is  therefore  advan- 
tageous to  the  agricultural  interests,  as  land  is  becom- 
ing so  valuable,  to  reserve  as  much  of  the  soil  of  Eng- 
land as  possible  for  the  cultivation  of  wheat  and  more 
valuable  products ;  and  nothing  will  tend  to  promote 
this  object  more  than  the  introduction  of  a  copious  sup- 
ply of  cheaper  farinaceous  food  for  the  poor  and  labour- 
ing classes. 


INDIAN    CORN.  25 

In  closing  the  historical  part  of  this  memoir,  it  may 
not  be  uninteresting  to  allude  to  another  countrymen 
of  ours,  Elihu  Burritt,  commonly  called  "  The  Learned 
Blacksmith,"  who  is  at  present  engaged  in  making  a 
pedestrian  tour  in  various  parts  of  Europe,  and  giving 
the  result  of  his  observations  in  the  "  Christian 
Citizen,"  from  which  we  make  the  following  extract : — 

I  have  just  got  out  "  An  Olive  Leaf,  from  the  House- 
wives of  America,  to  the  Housewives  of  Great  Britain 
and  Ireland,  or  Recipes  for  making  Various  Articles  of 
Food,  of  Indian  Corn  Meal,"  containing  all  the  recipes 
I  received  before  leaving  home  from  our  kind  female 
friends  in  different  parts  of  the  Union — heaven  bless 
them !  I  have  had  2,000  of  these  Olive  Leaves  struek 
off,  and  intended,  in  the  first  place,  to  send  a  copy  to 
every  newspaper  in  the  realm.  I  shall  have  a  thou- 
sand, all  of  which  I  shall  put  into  the  hands  of  those 
I  meet  on  the  road.  I  have  resolved  to  make  it  a  con- 
dition upon  which  only  I  consent  to  be  any  man's 
guest,  that  his  wife  shall  serve  up  a  johnny-cake  for 
breakfast,  or  an  Indian  pudding  for  dinner.  I  was  in- 
vited yesterday  to  a  tea  party  which  comes  off  to-night, 
where  about  thirty  persons  are  to  be  present.  I  ac- 
cepted the  invitation  with  the  johnny-cake  clause, 
which  was  readily  agreed  to  by  all  parties.  So  to-night 
the  virtues  of  corn  meal  will  be  tested  by  some  of  the 
best  livers  in  Birmingham. 

Mythology. — The  Indians  of  Peru  and  the  adjacent 
country,'  who  existed  before  the  empire  of  the  Incas 
began,  were  at  best  but  tamed  animals,  and  often  they 
were  more  brutish  than  the  beasts  of  the  field.  They 
possessed  no  right  of  property,  no  fixed  laws,  no  religion, 
nor  government  ;  neither  did  they  plough,  sow,  or  till 
the  earth,  nor  did  they  understand  the  art  of  weaving 
cotton  or  wool ;  but  dwelt  together  in  small  hordes  as 
they  happened  to  meet  in  caves  or  holes  in  the  rocks 
and  mountains,  subsisting  on  grass,  herbs  and  roots, 
wild  fruits,  and  the  flesh  of  man,  with  no  other  cloth- 
ing than  the  leaves  and  bark  of  trees,  and  the  skins  of 
beasts.     In  short,  they  were  altogether  savage. 


26  MEMOIR    ON 

As  ever  lias  been  the  case  with  most  of  the  primitive 
tribes  of  the  human  race,  these  Indians  .derived  their 
original  being  from  divers  objects,  animate  or  inanimate, 
of  which  they  entertained  respect,  admiration,  or  awe. 
Some  who  lived  near  a  great  lake  which  supplied  them 
with  a  store  of  fish,  called  that  the  parent  whence  they 
emerged  ;  some  esteemed  the  mighty  Andes  as  their 
prime  mother,  who,  from  her  deep  caverns,  first  gave 
them  birth  ;  and  others  fancied  themselves  to  be  the 
descendants  of  the  great  bird,  condor,  in  token  of 
which,  on  days  of  solemnity  and  festival,  they  wore  its 
wings  fastened  to  their  arms. 

Every  nation,  province,  tribe,  and  house  among  them, 
had  its  particular  idol.  For  their  opinion  was,  that 
one  god  would  have  enough  to  do,  to  take  care  of  its  own 
province,  or  family,  and  that  its  power  was  so  limited, 
that  it  could  have  no  virtue  or  extent  within  the  juris- 
diction of  another.  Some  adored  whatever  they  saw  in 
which  an  excellence  could  be  observed,  whether  good  or 
bad.  The  tiger,  the  jaguar,  and  the  bear,  they  wor- 
shipped for  their  ferocity,  and  with  such  submission 
and  humility,  that  they  would  not  fly  from  them  in 
time  of  danger,  but  offered  themselves  to  be  devoured. 
The  fox  and  the  monkey,  they  adored  for  their  craft ; 
the  stag  for  his  swiftness  ;  the  hawk,  for  agility  and 
courage  ;  the  eagle,  for  acuteness  of  sight ;  while  other 
nations  were  more  considerate  in  the  choice  of  their 
deities,  and  worshipped  nothing  except  what  afforded 
them  benefit  or  advantage.  As  fountains  and  cool 
springs,  which  furnished  them  with  drink  ;  rivers,  that 
watered  their  pastures  ;  the  earth,  which  they  called 
their  mother,  because  it  yielded  them  food  ;  the  air,  be- 
cause it  gave  them  breath  and  life ;  and  fire,  because  it 
warmed  them,  and  cooked  their  food.  Some,  also,  made 
choice  of  sheep,  cattle,  or  corn,  and  everything  around 
them,  that  served  most  for  nourishment,  as  a  god,  and 
worthy  of  divine  honour.  The  inhabitants  near  the 
coast,  made  the  sea  their  god,  the  name  of  which, 
interpreted  in  their  language,  signifies  the  u  Mother 
Sea."    The  whale  they  deified  on  account  of  its  pro- 


INDIAN    CORN.  27 

digious  size.  In  the  Province  of  Puerto  Viejo,  they 
had  a  his;h  veneration  for  the  emerald  :  and  near  the 
Cordillera,  they  worshipped  that  mountain  for  its  stu- 
pendous height. 

The  sacrifices  which  they  made  to  these  deities  were 
often  as  barbarous  as  the  gods  were  senseless  ;  for, 
besides  beasts,  fruits,  and  corn,  they  sacrificed  and 
devoured  alive,  men  and  women  of  all  ages,  whom  they 
had  taken  in  war.  But  other  Indians  less  cruel,  and 
more  mild  in  their  character,  though  they  mingled  blood 
with  these  rites,  never  took  away  life,  but  drew  it  from 
the  veins  of  an  arm,  a  leg,  or  the  nostrils,  according  to 
the  nature  or  solemnity  of  the  sacrifice  required. 
Others  offered  sheep  and  lambs,  conies,  partridges,  and 
various  kinds  of  fowl,  herbs,  fruits,  and  maize,  so  much 
esteemed  among  them,  according  to  the  deity  they 
adored. 

These  people,  living  and  dying  in  the  manner  above 
described,  were  at  length  reclaimed  by  Inca  Manco 
Capac,  who,  probably,  was  some  Indian  of  a  more 
elevated  understanding  and  prudence  than  ordinary, 
and  who,  by  carrying  a  refined  manner  of  deportment 
toward  them,  had  persuaded  them  that  he  and  his  wife, 
Mama  Oello  Hauco,  proceeded  from  the  sun,  and  were 
come  from  heaven  ;  and  that  his  Father,  Pachacamac 
(the  Soul  of  the  universe,  or  the  Sustainer  of  all  things), 
had  sent  them  to  instruct  and  bestow  benefits  upon  the 
rest  of  mankind.  Manco  Capac  was  the  founder  of  the 
Inco.s,  who  were  the  native  kings  of  Peru,  and  who, 
according  to  tradition,  reigned  in  a  direct  lineage,  until 
they  were  conquered  by  the  Spaniards,  for  the  space  of 
four  hundred  years.  The  origin  of  these  kings,  the 
majesty  and  greatness  of  their  empire,  their  conquests 
and  policies  in  government,  both  in  peace  and  in  war, 
together  with  the  laws  they  instituted  for  the  good  and 
benefit  of  their  subjects,  have  been  recorded  by  one  of 
their  own  descendants  on  the  maternal  side,  Garcilasso 
de  la  Vega,  surnamed  the  Inca.  Concerning  the  origin 
of  these  kings,  he  says,  that,  when  he  was  about  seven- 
teen  years   of  age,  being   one    day  present  with  his 


28  MEMOIR    ON 

kindred  in  the  imperial  city  of  Cuzco,  who  were  discours- 
ing of  their  ancestors',  it  came  into  his  mind  to  ask  the 
most  elderly  person  amongst  them,  by  interrupting  him 
in  his  discourse,  the  following  questions  : — "  Inca  and 
i  my  uncle,"  said  I,  "How  is  it  possible,  since  you 
1  have  no  writings,  that  you  have  been  able  to  preserve 
1  the  memory  of  things  past,  and  the  origin  of  our 
i  kings  ?  I  observe  that  the  Spaniards  and  their 
1  kindred  nations  have  their  sacred  and  profane  his- 
'  tories,  whereby  they  learn  the  time  that  their  own 
1  kings,  and  the  princes  of  other  countries  began  their 
i  reigns  ;  when  and  how  empires  were  changed  and 
i  transferred  ;  nay,  so  far  they  go,  as  to  tell  us  how 
1  many  thousand  years  are  past  since  God  created  the 
1  heavens  and  the  earth  ;  all  of  which,  and  much 
'  more,  they  have  learned  from  their  books  ;  but  as  to 
1  yourselves — In  what  manner  can  you  retain  the 
i  memory  of  your  ancestors,  or  be  informed  of  the 
1  origin  of  the  Incas  ?  As,  for  instance,  who  was  the 
c  first  of  them,  or  what  was  his  name  ?  Of  what 
'  lineage,  or  in  what  manner  did  he  begin  his  reign  ? 
1  What  nations  did  he  conquer,  and  when  did  he  give 
'  a  being  to  this  great  empire,  and  with  what  exploits 
4  did  our  ancestors  achieve  their  greatness  ? 

"  The  Inca  was  much  pleased  to  hear  me  make  these 
'  inquiries,* because  he  took  great  delight  in  recounting 
i  these  matters,  and  turning  to  me,  said,  *  Cousin,  I 
most  willingly  comply  with  your  request ;  for  it  con- 
cerns you  to  hear  them,  and  keep  them  in  your  heart. 
Remember,  then,  that  in  ages  past,  all  this  region  or 
country,  you  see  around  us,  was  nothing  but  moun- 
tains and  wild  forests,  and  the  people  in  those  times 
were  like  so  many  brutes,   without  any  religion   or 
government,  with  no  understanding  of  property,  or  a 
single    enjoyment    of    them ;    neither    did   they  sow, 
plough,   nor    clothe  themselves,  because  they  had  no 
idea   of  tilling  the  earth,  and   knew  not  the  art   of 
weaving  either  cotton  or  wool.     They   dwelt  two  by 
two,  or  three  and  three  together,  as  they  chanced  to 
meet,  in  caves,  or  holes  in  the  rocks  and  mountains. 


INDIAN    CORN. 


29 


Their  food  was  herbs  or  grass,  roots  of  trees,  wild 
fruits,  and  human  flesh  ;  and  all  the  covering  they 
had,  consisted  of  the  leaves  or  bark  of  trees,  and  the 
skins  of  beasts. 

1  And  now,  I  pray  that  you  listen  with  due  atten- 
tion, for  I  would  not  be  troubled  to  repeat  what  I 
am  to  say.  Our  Father,  the  Sun,  beholding  these 
Indians  as  they  existed  in  the  state  that  I  have  just 
related,  took  compassion  on  them,  and  sent  a  eon  and 
a  daughter  of  his  own  from  heaven  to  earth,  to  in- 
struct our  people  in  his  knowledge,  so  that  they 
might  worship  and  adore  him,  and  esteem  him  as  their 
God,  giving  them  laws  and  precepts,  unto  which 
they  might  conform  their  lives  like  men  of  reason 
and  refinement  of  manners,  that  they  might  live 
in  houses  and  society,  learn  to  till  the  earth,  culti- 
vate trees,  plants,  and  corn,  feed  their  flocks,  and 
enjoy  them  as  rational  men,  and  not  as  brutes. 
With  these  orders  and  instructions,  our  Father,  the 
Sun,  placed  his  two  children  by  the  Lake  Titicaca, 
giving  them  liberty  to  go  which  way  they  pleased, 
and  that,  in  what  place  soever  they  stopped  to  eat,  or 
sleep,  they  should  strike  a  little  wedge  of  gold  into 
the  ground,  which  was  about  half  a  yard  long,  and 
two  fingers  thick,  and  where,  with  one  stroke  this 
wedge  should  sink  into  the  earth,  there  should  be  the 
place  of  their  abode,  and  the  court  unto  which  all 
people  should  come.  Lastly,  he  ordered  that  when 
they  should  have  subjected  these  people  to  the  rules 
of  obedience,  they  should  maintain  them  with  reason, 
justice,  piety,  clemency,  and  gentleness,  performing 
all  the  good  offices  of  indulgent  parents  towards  the 
children  they  love ;  and  that  in  imitation  of  him, 
and  by  his  example  who  doeth  good  to  all  the  world, 
by  affording  them  light  to  perform  their  work, 
and  the  actions  of  life  ;  warming  them  when  they 
are  cold ;  making  their  pastures  and  their  seeds  to 
grow,  their  trees  to  fructify,  and  their  flocks  to  in- 
crease ;  and  watering  their  lands  with  timely  dews. 
And  in  order  to  manifest  his  earthly  care,  he  said, 


30  .MEMOIR    ON 

every  day  I  take  a  turn  around  the  world  to  see  and 
discover  the  wants  and  necessities  of  all  things,  in 
order  that,  as  their  true  fomenter  and  parent,  I  may 
apply  myself  to  their  succour  and  redress.  Thus, 
after  my  example,  and  as  my  children,  sent  upon 
the  earth,  I  would  have  you  imitate  me,  and  to  instil 
such  doctrine  into  this  people  as  may  convert  them 
from  beasts  unto  men.  And  henceforth  I  constitute 
and  ordain  you  king  and  queen  over  this  nation, 
that  by  your  instructions,  reason,  and  government, 
they  may  be  preserved.  After  our  Father,  the  Sun, 
had  thus  declared  his  pleasure  to  these,  his  two 
children,  he  dispatched  them  from  him  ;  and,  in 
taking  their  journey  northward  from  Titicaca,  at 
every  place  where  they  came  to  repose,  they  tried  to 
strike  their  wedge  into  the  ground,  but  to  no  effect ; 
but,  at  length  they  arrived  at  a  little  inn  or  place  of 
rest,  in  the  valley  of  Cuzco,  where  they  again  struck 
their  wedge  of  gold  into  the  earth,  which  received  it 
with  the  greatest  ease,  and  which  sucked  it  in,  and 
they  saw  it  no  more.  Then,  said  the  Inca  to  his 
sister  and  wife — in  this  valley,  our  Father,  the  Sun, 
hath  commanded  that  we  should  stay,  and  make  our 
abode,  and  in  so  doing  we  shall  obey  his  will ;  in 
pursuance  whereof,  it  is  necessary  that  we  now 
separate  from  each  other,  and  take  different  ways 
that  we  may  assemble  and  draw  the  people  together 
in  such  manner  as  we  may  be  able  to  preach  and 
propagate  the  doctrine  among  them,  which  has  been 
committed  to  us.  Our  Inca,  accordingly,  took  his 
way  northward,  and  his  wife  to  the  southward,  and 
to  all  the  men  and  women,  whom  they  met  in  the 
wild  forests  and  uncultivated  places,  they  declared  to 
them  that  their  Father,  the  Sun,  had  sent  them  to  be 
teachers  and  benefactors,  and  to  deliver  them  from 
the  savage  life  they  led  to  another,  more  agree- 
able to  reason,  justice,  and  humanity.  And  in  fur- 
ther pursuance  of  the  commands  of  our  Father,  the 
Sun,  they  had  come  to  gather  these  people  from  the 
mountains    and    rude    places,    to    more    convenient 


INDIAN    CORN.  31 

habitations,  where  they  might  live  in  human  society, 
and  subsist  upon  such  food  as  was  appropriated  to  man, 
and  not  to  beasts.  These,  and  similar  declarations 
were  announced  to  such  savages  as  they  met  in  the 
mountains  and  deserts,  who,  in  beholding  the  grace 
of  their  countenances,  the  jewels,  and  the  gay  attire 
with  which  these  two  persons  were  adorned,  and  in 
listening  to  the  gentleness  and  sweetness  of  their 
words,  acknowledged  them  to  be  the  true  Children  of 
the  Sun,  and  such  as  were  appointed  to  cause  their 
people  to  assemble  into  societies,  and  to  administer 
such  kinds  of  food  as  were  wholesome,  and  adapted 
to  human  sustenance.  They  were  struck  with  such 
admiration  at  the  sight  of  their  figure  and  person, 
and  allured  with  the  promises  they  made  them,  that 
they  gave  entire  credence  to  their  words,  obeyed 
them  as  their  princes,  and  adored  them  as  superior 
beings.  And  these  poor  wretches,  relating  these 
sayings  one  to  another,  the  fame  so  increased,  that 
great  numbers,  both  men  and  women,  flocked  to- 
gether, and  were  willing  to  follow  to  what  place 
soever  they  should  guide  them. 
4  Thus,  great  multitudes  of  people  being  assembled 
together,  the  princes  commanded  that  provision 
should  be  made  of  such  fruits  as  the  earth  produced 
for  their  sustenance,  lest  they  should  be  scattered 
abroad  again  in  small  numbers,  to  gain  their  food. 
Our  Inca  taught  some  of  his  subjects  those  labours, 
which  appertain  unto  men,  as  to  build  houses,  plough, 
sow  the  land  with  maize  and  divers  sort  of  seeds, 
that  were  useful  or  fit  for  food  ;  to  which  end  he  in- 
structed them  how  to  make  ploughs  and  other  im- 
plements necessary  for  the  purpose  ;  he  showed  them 
also  how  to  make  aqueducts  and  reservoirs  for  hold- 
ing water,  and  various  other  arts  tending  to  the  more 
commodious  well-being  of  human  life.  He  employed 
others  to  gather  and  tame  the  llamas  and  more  gentle 
sorts  of  cattle  into  flocks,  which  ran  dispersed  and 
wild  through  the  mountains  and  woods,  that  garments 
might   be   made   of  their   wool,  and   shoes  of  their 


32 


MEMOIR    ON 


skins.  On  the  other  hand,  Coya  Mama  Oello  in- 
structed the  women  the  art  of  spinning  and  weaving 
both  cotton  and  wool,  to  make  garments  for  their 
husbands,  their  children,  and  themselves,  with  various 
other  offices  appertaining  to  a  house.  In  short, 
nothing  was  omitted  that  would  conduce  to  human 
welfare,  which  she  did  not  teach  her  women,  and  the 
Inca  his  men. 

i  Being  reduced  in  this  manner,  these  Indians  looked 
on  themselves  as  much  bettered  in  their  condition  ; 
and  with  signal  acknowledgments  of  the  benefits 
received,  travelled  with  joy  and  satisfaction  through 
the  rocks  and  woods,  to  communicate  the  happy 
tidings  of  the  Children  of  the  Sun,  who,  for  the  com- 
mon good  of  all,  appeared  on  the  earth,  repeating 
the  benefits  they  had  received,  and  showing  them 
their  new  habiliments,  and  diet,  and  relating  to 
them  that  they  lived  in  houses  and  in  political 
society.  This  relation  induced  these  wild  people  to 
mingle  with  their  civilized  brethren,  in  order  to  learn 
and  obey ;  and  thus,  one  calling  and  inviting 
the  other,  the  fame  spread  far  and  near,  and  their 
number  increased  to  such  a  degree,  that  in  six  or 
seven  years,  the  Inca  had  composed  an  army  sufficient 
for  war ;  and  having  taught  them  how  to  make  bows 
and  arrows,  lances,  and  such  other  weapons  as  we 
use  to  this  day,  they  were  not  only  capable  of  defend- 
ing, but  also  to  repulse  an  enemy,  and  to  compel 
those  by  force,  who  led  a  bestial  life,  to  live  in 
human  society. 

*  These  were  our  first  Incas  and  kings  in  the  earlier 
ages  of  our  empire,  from  whom  the  succeding  princes, 
and  we  ourselves,  are  descended  ;  but  how  many 
years  it  may  be  since  our  Father,  the  Sun,  sent  his 
offspring  amongst  us,  I  am  not  able  precisely  to  say, 
but  I  imagine  that  it  may  be  about  four  hundred 
years. 
'  And  thus  having  satisfied  the  request  you  made  to 
me,  at  length,  dear  cousin,  allow  me  to  close  by  tell- 
ing you,  that  in  the  course  of  my  narrative,  in  order 


INDIAN    CORN.  33 

4  that  I  might  not  incline  you  to  sadness,  I  abstained 
*  from  venting  tears  from  my  eyes,  which,  notwith- 
'  standing,  drop  in  blood  on  my  heart,  caused  by  that 
'  inward  grief  I  feel,  to  see  our  Incas,  and  their  empire 
6 ruined  and  destroyed."  ' 

To  this  legend,  many  others  of  ancient  date  might 
be  added,  one  of  which,  is,  that  the  rays  of  the  sun, 
after  the  universal  deluge,  first  fell  on  the  island  in 
Lake  Titicaca,  before  they  appeared  in  any  other  place, 
and  gave  a  sign  and  promise  that  from  that  spot  the 
first  doctrines  of  the  light  of  knowledge  should  eminate, 
which  promise  was  afterwards  accomplished  by  those 
kings,  who  preceded  them,  and  taught  the  world  to 
throw  off  their  turpitude,  and  live  according  to  the  dic- 
tates of  nature  and  of  reason.  By  advantage  of  these, 
and  other  similar  inventions,  it  was  not  difficult  for  the 
Incas  to  persuade  the  rest  of  the  Indians,  that  they 
actually  descended  from  the  sun,  and  to  confirm  their 
belief  by  the  manifold  benefits  and  advantages  which 
their  doctrine  and  religion  brought  with  them.  On 
the  assurance  of  these  two  fables,  it  is  said,  the  Incas 
and  all  their  subjects  did  really  esteem  this  island  to 
be  a  sacred  and  holy  piece  of  ground,  upon  which,  with 
that  opinion,  they  erected  a  rich  temple,  all  plated 
with  gold,  to  be  dedicated  to  their  Father,  the  Sun  ; 
where  all  the  Indians  of  the  provinces,  subject  to  the  In- 
cas, generally  assembled  once  a  year  to  offer  gold,  silver, 
and  precious,  stones,  in  thankful  acknowledgments  of 
the  great  blessings  they  had  received.  And  so  immense 
was  the  quantity  of  gold  and  silver,  which  was  amassed 
in  that  island,  besides  what  was  cast  and  wrought  into 
utensils,  for  the  service  of  the  temple,  that  the  report 
of  it  made  by  the  Incas,  is  incredible,  and  is  more  to  be 
admired  than  believed.  Bias  Valera,  a  Spanish  histo- 
rian, in  speaking  of  the  riches  of  this  temple,  says, 
that  after  all  the  vessels  and  ornaments  were  supplied, 
he  was  told  by  the  Indians  of  Copa-Cabano,  that  there 
was  such  a  superfluity  of  gold  and  silver,  after  all  was 
finished,  that  another  such  temple  might  have  been 
erected  without  the  aid  of  any  other  materials  !     And 

2* 


34  MEMOIR    ON 

that,  so  soon  as  the  Indians  had  news  of  the  invasion 
of  the  Spaniards,  and  were  informed  that  their  object 
was  to  despoil  them  of  their  treasures,  they  demolished 
their  temple,  and  threw  all  the  fragments  and  the  im- 
mense wealth  appertaining  thereto,  into  the  great 
lake. 

Those  Incas,  besides  the  riches  they  bestowed,  and 
the  encouragement  they  gave  for  the  adornment  of  this 
temple,  did  much  to  improve  the  sterile  land  of  this 
isle,  so  as  to  render  it  more  fertile,  and  fit  to  produce 
fruit  ;  and,  in  gratitude  to  the  place,  on  which  they 
believed  their  ancestors  to  have  descended  from  heaven, 
they  ennobled  it  by  bringing  it  into  the  highest  state 
of  fertility  and  the  best  of  husbandry.  To  this  end 
they  levelled  and  cleared  it  of  rocks  and  stones,  made 
gardens  and  covered  them  over  with  good  earth  and 
manure  brought  from  afar,  and  thereby  made  the 
ground  capable  of  producing  maize,  which,  by  reason 
of  its  elevation  and  its  consequent  coldness  of  climate, 
would  not  grow  in  the  country  adjacent.  This  grain, 
with  flax  and  other  seeds,  they  sowed  in  the  gardens 
they  had  made,  which  yielded  good  increase,  the  fruits 
of  which  they  sent  as  sacred  presents  to  the  temple  of 
the  sun,  and  to  the  select  virgins,  at  Cuzco,with  orders 
to  distribute  them  in  all  other  sacred  places  throughout 
the  dominions.  One  year  they  sent  presents  to  Cuzco, 
the  next  to  another  place,  and  the  third  year  some- 
where else,  which  were  held  in  high  esteem,  as  sacred 
relics,  sowing  some  in  the  gardens  belonging  to  the 
temples,  and  other  public  houses,  and  others  they 
divided  among  the  people.  A  portion  of  the  grain  they 
cast  into  the  public  granaries,  and  those  of  the  sun 
and  of  the  king,  believing  that  some  divine  virtue  was 
contained  in  it,  and  that  it  would  bless  and  increase 
the  corn  with  which  it  was  mixed,  preserve  it  from  cor- 
ruption, and  render  it  more  wholesome  for  human 
sustenance  ;  and  that  Indian  who  was  so  happy  as  to 
be  able  to  get  but  one  grain  of  this  maize,  to  throw  into 
his  heap,  was  possessed  with  the  belief  that  he  should 
never  be  in  want  for  bread  in  the  course  of  his  life. 


INDIAN    CORN.  35 

During  the  high  feast,  Capacrayni,  held  in  the  first 
month,  Raymi,  agreeing  with  our  December,  no  stran- 
ger was  suffered  to  lodge  in  Cuzco,  to  which  they 
again  all  assembled  as  soon  as  the  festival  was  over,  to 
receive  cakes  made  of  maize  and  the  warm  blood  of  a 
white  alpaca,  by  the  Mamacunas,  (select  virgins,)  and 
distributed  by  certain  priests,  who,  in  carrying  them 
about  in  dishes  of  gold,  gave  each  of  the  Indians  one, 
saying  as  they  delivered  it,  "  If  you  do  not  reverence 
the  sun  and  Inca,  this  food  will  bear  witness 
against  you  to  your  ruin ;  but  if  you  worship  them, 
then  their  bodies,  by  this  pledge,  will  be  united  to 
yours."  After  which,  those  that  had  eaten  of  the 
cakes,  promised  obedience,  and  thanked  the  sun  and 
Inca  for  their  food. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  month  Hatuncuzqui,  which 
corresponds  to  our  May,  the  Peruvians  gathered 
their"  maize  and  kept  the  feast  Aymorai.  They  re- 
turned home,  singing  from  the  fields,  carrying  with 
them  a  large  heap  of  maize,  which  they  called  Perua, 
wrapping  it  up  in  rich  garments.  They  continued  their 
ceremonies  for  three  nights,  imploring  the  perua  to 
preserve  their  harvest  of  maize  from  any  damage  that 
might  chance  to  befall  it,  and  also  to  cause  that  to  grow 
prosperously  which  they  should  next  plant.  Lastly, 
their  sorcerers  consulted  their  gods  whether  the  perua 
could  last  till  the  next  year ;  and  if  they  did  not 
answer  in  the  affirmative,  they  carried  it  into  the 
fields  and  burned,  or  parched  it  with  the  view  of 
making  a  new  perua,  which  they  bore  to  their  gra- 
naries in  great  triumph,  and  mingled  it  with  other  corn. 

The  corn-plant,  or  its  fruit,  also  entered  into  the 
forms,  the  ceremonies,  and  the  mythology  of  many 
other  tribes,  which,  from  the  limited  length  of  this 
memoir,  and  the  want  of  accurate  information  on  the 
subject,  are  necessarily  omitted.  The  following  alle- 
gory, however,  which  was  related  to  Mr.  Schoolcraft 
by  the  Odjibwas,  will  be  read  with  interest  by  all 
who  have  a  fondness  for  this  branch  of  literature  : — 
A  young  man  went  out  into  the  woods  to  fast,  at  that 
period  of  life  when  youth  is  exchanged  for  manhood- 


MWWingri  n  ■  ■  ■  n  i 


36  %  MEMOIR    ON 

He  built  a  lodge  of  boughs  in  a  secluded  place,  and 
painted  his  face  of  a  sombre  hue.  By  day  he  amused 
himself  in  walking  about,  looking  at  the  various  shrubs 
and  wild  plants,  and  at  night  he  lay  down  in  his  bower, 
which,  being  open,  he  could  look  up  into  the  sky.  He 
sought  a  gift  from  the  Master  of  Life,  and  he  hoped 
it  would  be  something  to  benefit  his  race.  On  the  third 
day  he  became  too  weak  to  leave  the  lodge,  and  as  he  lay 
gazing  upwards  he  saw  a  spirit  come  down  in  the  shape 
of  a  beautiful  young  man,  dressed  in  green,  and  having 
green  plumes  on  his  head,  who  told  him  to  arise  and 
wrestle  with  him,  as  this  was  the  only  way  in  which  he 
could  obtain  his  wishes.  He  did  so,  and  found  his 
strength  renewed  by  the  effort.  This  visit  and  the 
trial  of  wrestling  were  repeated  for  four  days,  the  youth 
feeling  at  each  trial,  that,  although  his  bodily  strength 
declined,  a  moral  and  supernatural  energy  was  im- 
parted, which  promised  him  the  final  victory.  On  the 
third  day  his  celestial  visitor  spoke  to  him.  "  To- 
morrow," said  he,  "  will  be  the  seventh  day  of  your  fast, 
and  the  last  time  I  shall  wrestle  with  you.  You  will 
triumph  over  me,  and  gain  your  wishes.  As  soon  as 
you  have  thrown  me  down,  strip  off  my  clothes,  and 
bury  me  in  the  spot,  in  soft  fresh  earth.  When  you 
have  done  this,  leave  me,  but  come  occasionally  to 
visit  the  place,  to  keep  the  weeds  from  growing. 
Once  or  twice  cover  me  with  fresh  earth."  He  then 
departed,  but  returned  the  next  day,  and,  as  he  had 
predicted,  was  thrown  down.  The  young  man  punc- 
tually obeyed  his  instructions,  in  every  particular,  and 
soon  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  the  green  plumes  of  nis 
sky  visitor,  shooting  up  through  the  ground.  He 
carefully  weeded  the  earth,  and  kept  it  fresh  and  soft, 
and  in  due  time  was  gratified  by  beholding  the  matured 
plant,  bending  with  its  yellow  fruit,  and  gracefully 
waving  its  green  leaves  and  yellow  tassels  in  the  wind. 
He  then  invited  his  parents  to  the  spot,  to  behold  the 
new  plant.  "  It  is  mondamin,"  replied  his  father  "it 
is  the  spirit's  grain."  They  immediately  prepared  a 
feast,  and  invited  their  friends  to  partake  of  it,  anc* 
this  is  the  origin  of  Indian  corn. 


INDIAN    CORN.  37 

Properties  and  Uses. — There  is  no  species  of  the 
Cerealia,  which  manifests  itself  under  such  varied  forms, 
sizes,  colours,  and  chemical  ingredients,  as  maize. 
While  some  persons  have  estimated  it  in  value,  equal,  if 
not  superior,  to  all  other  kinds  of  grain,  others,  on  the 
contrary,  have  placed  it  in  the  lowest  station  in  the 
group  to  which  it  belongs.  It  has  been  contended  by 
some  that  it  contains  no  gluten,  and  little,  if  any,  ready- 
formed  saccharine  matter,  and  hence,  could  possess  but 
a  very  small  nutritive  power,  while  others  have  observed 
that  domestic  animals,  which  are  fed  on  maize,  very 
speedily  become  fat,  with  their  flesh,  at  the  same  time, 
remarkably  firm  ;  that  horses,  which  consume  it,  are 
enabled  to  perform  their  full  portion  of  labour,  are 
exceedingly  hardy,  and  require  but  little  care  ;  and 
that  the  inhabitants  of  the  countries  where  it  forms  a 
large  share  of  their  food,  are,  for  the  most  part,  strong, 
healthy,  and  long-lived.  The  investigations  of  vegetable 
chemistry,  however,  have  more  recently  revealed  to  us 
many  important  and  interesting  facts  on  these  points,  yet 
our  knowledge  on  the  subject  is  far  from  being  complete. 

According  to  Marabelli's  analysis  of  Zea  mays, 
made  twenty  or  thirty  years  ago,  it  contains  a  saccha- 
rine matter  of  different  degrees  of  purity,  from  which 
alcohol,  the  oxalic  and  acetous  acids  may  be  obtain- 
ed ;  a  vegetable  amylaceous  substance ;  a  glutinous 
substance  ;  muriate  and  nitrate  of  magnesia  ;  carbonates 
of  potash,  lime,  and  of  magnesia  ;    and  iron. 

According  to  the  analysis  of  M.  Payen,  maize  con- 
sists of  the  following  ingredients.  One  hundred  parts 
by  weight  yielded 

Starch, 28.4 

Nitrogenized  matter,    -----  4.8 

Fatty  matter,  (oil,)  ------  35.6 

Colouring  matter,    ------  0.2 

Cellular  tissue, 20.0 

Dextrine,       --------  2.0 

Various  salts,   --------  7.2 

Loss,   ----------  1.8 

100.0 


38  MEMOIR    ON 

The  proportion  of  oil  is  evidently  overrated  in  this 
analysis,  and  the  error  is  attributed  by  Dr.  Jackson  to 
the  solubility  of  the  zeine  or  gluten  of  the  corn  in  ether, 
which  Pay  en  used  to  dissolve  the  oil.  The  gluten 
being  taken  up  by  this  process,  was  mistaken  for  oil, 
and  credited  in  the  analysis  as  such,  when  it  should 
have  been  put  under  the  head  of  nitrogenized  matter. 
It  is  not  surprising,  he  remarks  that  M.  Dumas,  in 
quoting  this  analysis,  should  observe  that  "  individuals 
who  eat  corn  for  some  time,  present  symptoms  of  an 
accumulation  of  fat  in  their  tissue,  which  will  not  ap- 
pear astonishing,  when  we  consider  that  a  bushel  of 
corn  would  yield  a  quart  (litre)  of  oil  !"  If  this  doc- 
trine were  true,  those  Americans,  who  derive  a  great 
part  of  their  subsistence  from  Indian  corn,  would  be 
an  excessively  fat  people. 

According  to  the  analysis  recently  made  in  England 
by   Professor   Playfair,    some    specimens    of   corn   of 
American  growth,  yielded,  in    one   hundred  parts  by 
weight,  the  following  proportions  : — 

Proteine,      --------       7 

Fatty  matter,      ------  5 

Starch, 76 

Water, 12 

100 

By  this  analysis  it  would  seem  that  maize  contains 
less  proteine  or  nutritive  matter,  than  wheat,  oats,  or 
barley,  but  more  than  either  rice  or  potatoes.  In  fact, 
it  contains  about  three  and  a  half  times  the  quantity 
of  nutritive  matter  that  is  found  in  potatoes,  and  a 
much  larger  proportion  of  starch,  and  less  water.  It 
also  contains  more  fatty  matter  than  any  of  these  pro- 
ducts, which  is  a  very  important  consideration  where  the 
mere  fattening  of  animals  is  taken  into  account.  Hence, 
as  an  article  of  food,  either  for  man  or  animals,  it  is 
superior  to  potatoes  and  rice,  but  inferior  to  wheat, 
oats,  or  barley.  It  is  relished  by  all  animals  that 
are  not  exclusively  carnivorous,  and  certainly  is  highly 
nutritious. 


INDIAN    CORN.  39 

According  to  the  researches  of  Dr.  Charles  T.  Jack- 
son, of  Boston,  who  stands  preminent  as  a  chemist, 
Indian  corn,  in  general,  is  composed  of  variable  propor- 
tions of  starch,  dextrine,  gum  or  mucilage,  sugar, 
gluten,  oil,  the  phosphates  of  lime  and  magnesia,  with 
a  little  phosphoric  acid,  silica,  potash,  and  oxide  of 
iron.  Some  varieties,  however,  are  nearly  or  quite 
destitute  of  gluten,  oil,  or  the  salts  of  iron. 

Among  the  curious  results  of  Dr.  Jackson's  experi- 
ments, he  proved  that  the  relative  proportions  of  phos- 
phates in  grain,  depend  on  the  assimilating  power  of 
each  species,  or  variety  ;  for  an  ear  of  corn  having  been 
selected,  which  had  on  it  two  different  kinds,  namely, 
the  Tuscarora  and  the  sweet  corn,  more  than  double 
the  amount  of  phosphates  were  obtained  from  the  latter 
than  from  the  former,  notwithstanding  the  kernels 
came  from  the  same  ear,  grew  side  by  side  from  the 
same  sap,  and  were  derived  from  the  same  soil.  Hence 
it  may  be  inferred  that  a  crop  of  sweet  corn  will  sooner 
exhaust  a  soil  of  its  phosphates  than  any  other  variety, 
and  if  a  soil  be  deficient  in  these  materials,  more  must 
be  added  to  produce  it  in  perfection.  Some  interesting 
facts  were  also  noticed  by  him  in  the  variable  propor- 
tions of  phosphates  in  different  varieties  of  the  same 
species  of  several  kinds  of  grain,  and  a  greater  prepon- 
derance of  them  was  observed  in  Indan  corn,  than  in 
the  smaller  grains,  as  barley,  oats,  wheat,  &c. — a  fact 
which  seems  to  explain  their  peculiar  properties  as  food 
for  animals  ;  for  the  more  highly  phosphatic  grains 
appear  to  be  more  likely  to  surcharge  the  system  of 
adult  animals  with  bony  matter,  often  producing  con- 
cretions of  phosphate  of  lime,  like  those  resulting 
from  gout.  It  is  conjectured  that  the  stiffness  of  the 
joints  and  lameness  of  the  feet,  common  in  horses, 
which  have  been  fed  to  freely  with  maize,  is  caused  by 
the  preponderance  of  the  phosphates.  Granting  this 
to  be  true,  young  animals  cannot  fail  to  derive  more 
osseous  matter  from  corn  than  from  any  other  kind  of 
grain. 

The  horny  or  flinty  portions  of  corn,  when  viewed  in 


40  MEMOIR    ON 

thin  sections  under  a  good  microscope,  will  be  found 
to  consist  of  a  great  number  of  six-sided  cells,  filled 
with  a  fixed  oil,  which  has  been  successfully  employed 
for  the  purposes  of  illumination.  It  is  stated  that  a 
distillery  has  been  established  in  the  vicinity  of  Lake 
Ontario,  where  this  oil  is  extracted,  at  the  rate  of  six- 
teen gallons  from  one  hundred  bushels  of  corn,  leaving 
the  remaining  portion  of  the  corn  more  valuable  and 
in  better  condition  for  distillation  than  before  the  oil  is 
extracted.     On  this  oil  depends  the 

POPPING    QUALITIES    OF    CORN. 

For,  when  the  kernels  are  heated  to  a  temperature  suf- 
ficiently high  to  decompose  the  oil,  a  sudden  explosion 
takes  place,  and  every  cell  is  ruptured  by  the  expansion 
of  gaseous  matters  arising  from  the  decomposition  of 
the  oil,  and  the  formation  of  carburetted hydrogen  gas, 
such  as  is  sometimes  used  in  lighting  large  cities,  the 
grain  being  completely  evoluted  and  folded  back,  or 
turned  inside  out.  This  property  is  remarkably  strong 
in  the  pop  corn,  and  is  common,  in  a  greater  or  less 
degree,  in  all  kinds  of  corn  that  abound  in  oil ;  but  those 
varieties  destitute  of  a  horny  covering,  as  the  Tuscarora, 
and  white  flour-corn,  will  not  pop  under  any  circum- 
stances whatever. 

This  change  in  corn  is  one  of  considerable  im- 
portance, so  far  as  regards  facility  of  digestion ;  for, 
after  the  decomposition  or  extraction  of  this  oil,  it  is 
more  readily  digested  by  man,  though  less  fattening  to 
poultry,  cattle,  swine,  &c. 

One  important  use  of  the  oil  in  corn  is  undoubtedly 
to  prevent  the  rapid  decomposition  of  the  kernels, 
when  sown  in  the  soil,  and  to  retain  a  portion  of 
pabulum  or  food,  until  needed  by  the  young  plant,  and 
is  always  the  last  portion  of  the  grain  taken  up.  It 
also  serves  to  keep  meal  from  souring,  as  it  has  been 
observed  that  a  flint-corn  meal  will  keep  sweet  for 
years,  even  when  put  up  in  large  quantities,  without 
being  kiln-dried  ;  while  the  meal  of  Tuscarora  corn 
will  become  sour  in  a  very  short  time. 


INDIAN    CORN.  41 

The  colours  of  Indian  corn  usually  depend  on  that 
of  the  epidermis  or  hull,  and  sometimes  on  that  of  the 
oil.  If  the  epidermis  be  transparent,  the  colour  may 
depend  either  upon  the  oil,  or  the  combined  particles 
of  which  the  corn  is  composed  ;  but  if  the  hull  be 
opaque,  the  grain  will  present  the  same  colour.  For 
example,  the  yellow  colour  of  the  golden  Sioux  is 
derived  from  the  yellow  colour  of  the  oil ;  and  the 
Rhode  Island  white  flint-corn  on  the  colourless  par- 
ticles of  its  starch  and  oil,  which  are  distinctly  seen 
through  its  transparent  hull ;  but  red  and  blue 
corn  owe  their  lively  hues  to  the  colours  of  their 
epidermis,  and  not  to  the  oil. 

The  proportions  of  oil  in  corn,  as  far  as  it  has  been 
examined,  varies  from  an  entire  absence  to  eleven  per 
cent.,  according  to  the  varieties  employed. 

When  corn  is  hulled  by  means  of  potash  ley,  a  por- 
tion of  the  oil  is  converted  into  soap,  and  the  epidermis 
becomes  detached.  The  caustic  alkali  also  liberates 
ammonia  from  the  mucilage  around  the  germ. 

Oily  corn  makes  a  dry  kind  of  bread,  and  is  not  suf- 
ficiently adhesive  to  rise  well  without  an  admixture  of 
rye,  or  other  flour. 

The  oil  of  corn  is  easily  convertible  into  animal  fat 
by  a  slight  change  of  composition,  and  consequently 
serves  an  excellent  purpose  for  fattening  poultry,  cattle, 
and  swine.  Starch,  also,  is  changed  into  fat  as  well  as 
the  carbonaceous  substances  of  animals,  and  during  its 
slow  combustion  in  the  circulation,  gives  out  a  portion 
of  the  heat  of  animal  bodies;  while,  in  its  altered 
state,  it  goes  to  form  a  part  of  the  living  frame.  Dex- 
trine and  sugar  act  in  a  similar  manner,  as  a  compound 
of  carbon,  hydrogen,  and  oxygen. 

From  the  phosphates  of  grain,  the  substance  of  bone 
and  the  saline  matters  of  the  brain,  nerves,  and  other 
solid  and  fluid  parts  of  the  body,  are,  in  a  great 
measure,  derived. 

The  salts  of  iron  go  to  the  blood,  and  these  consti- 
tute an  essential  portion  of  it,  whereby  it  is  enabled, 
by   successive  alterations  of  its  degree   of  oxidation 


42  MEMOIR    ON 

during  the  circulation  through  the  lungs,  arteries,  ex- 
treme vessels  and  veins,  to  convey  oxygen  to  every 
part  of  the  body. 

By  soaking  Indian  corn,  after  it  has  been  cut  open, 
in  a  watery  solution  of  sulphate  of  copper,  (blue  vitriol,) 
the  result  will  give  a  decisive  proof  of  the  presence  of 
phosphoric  acid.  The  u  chits,"  or  parts  containing  the 
germs,  will  be  changed  to  a  bluish-green,  beautifully 
denning  the  limits  of  the  phosphates  of  lime  and  of 
magnesia  contained  in  the  grain. 

By  soaking  a  kernel  of  corn  split  open  longitudinally 
and  thrown  into  a  solution  of  sulphydrate  of  ammonia, 
the  chit  is  soon  changed  to  a  dark  olive-colour,  which 
arises  from  the  change  of  the  salts  of  iron  into  a  sul- 
phuret  of  that  metal. 

By  cutting  open,  in  a  similar  manner,  a  kernel  of 
maize,  or  any  other  kind  of  grain,  and  dropping  upon 
it  a  small  quantity  of  the  tincture  of  iodine,  a  portion 
of  its  bulk  will  be  immediately  changed  to  an  intense 
blue,  indicating  the  presence  of  starch,  with  here  and 
there  a  deep  port-wine-coloured  speck,  which  will  define 
the  parts  composed  of  dextrine.  If  the  oil  is  extracted 
from  the  transparent  part  of  the  corn  by  alcohol,  or 
ether,  the  tincture  of  iodine  will  indicate  the  presence 
of  starch  in  that  part  of  the  grain  associated  with  the 
gluten. 

By  these  means,  we  may  readily  cause  any  grain  to 
define  the  extent  and  precise  limits  of  each  of  its 
ingredients  ;  and  by  the  eye,  we  can  form  a  pretty  cor- 
rect estimate  of  their  relative  proportions  in  different 
seeds.* 

The  varieties  of  Indian  corn  are  very  numerous,  ex- 
hibiting every  grade  of  size,  colour,  and  conformation 
between  the  shrubby  reed  that  grows  on  the  shores  of 
Lake  Superior,  to  the  gigantic  stalks  of  the  Ohio  val- 
ley, the  tiny  ears  with  flat,  close -clinging  grains  of 
Canada,  the  brilliant,  rounded,  little  pearl,  or  the 
bright-red  grains  and   white   cob   of   the    eight-rowed 

*  See  Jackson's  Report  on  the  Geology  and  Mineralogy  of  New  Hampshire, 
pp.  255  et  seq. 


INDIAN    CORN.  43 

« 

hsemetite,  to  the  swelling  ears  of  the  big  white,  and 
yellow  gourd-seed  of  the  South.  The  principal  varieties 
cultivated  in  the  United  States,  which  may  be  distin- 
guished by  the  number  of  rows  of  grains  on  the  cob, 
and  the  colour,  shape,  or  size  of  the  kernels,  may  be 
classified  and  described  as  follows  : — 

Yellow  Corn. — The  colours  of  the  varieties  coming 
under  this  head,  as  before  observed,  are  dependent 
mainly  on  the  shades  of  the  oil,  as  seen  through  the 
transparent  epidermis  or  hull. 

1.  Golden  Sioux  or  Northern  Yellow  Flint- Corn, 
derived  from  the  Sioux  Indians,  in  Canada,  having  a 
large  cob,  rather  short  as  to  length,  with  twelve  rows 
of  moderately-sized  grains,  abounding  in  oil,  and  is^ 
regarded  as  one  of  the  best  varieties  for  fattening 
animals,  or  for  human  food.  By  skilful  tillage,  130 
bushels  have  been  raised  to  an  acre,  weighing  9,216  lbs. 
in  the  ear.  When  dry,  75  lbs.  of  ears  gave  a  bushel 
when  shelled.  Several  valuable  hybrid  varieties  have 
been  produced  between  the  Sioux  and  the  King  Philip, 
the  gourd-seed  and  the  Sioux,  &c. 

2.  King  Philip  or  Eight-rowed  Yellow  Corn ;  so 
called  after  the  celebrated  chief  of  the  Wampanoags, 
of  that  name,  from  which  tribe  the  seed  was  originally 
obtained.  The  ears,  which  contain  only  eight  rows, 
are  longer,  the  cob  smaller,  and  the  grains  larger  than 
those  of  the  golden  Sioux,  and  it  will  yield  about  the 
same  quantity  of  oil.  It  is  a  hardy  plant,  much 
esteemed  in  New  England  as  a  substantial  article  of 
food,  where  it  has  been  cultivated  from  times  anterior 
to  the  landing  of  the  Pilgrims.  From  this  variety,  a 
number  of  superb  kinds  have  been  obtained,  among 
which,  are  a  beautiful  ten  and  twelve-rowed  hybrid 
from  the  golden  Sioux,  and  the  well  known  Browne 
Com,  improved  by  my  brother,  Mr.  John  Browne,  of 
Long  Island,  in  Lake  Winnipissiogee.  The  latter 
variety  was  produced  by  cultivating  selected  ears  for  a 
succession  of  years,  of  the  King  Philip  corn,  with  large 
but-ends,  the  second  ripe,  in  the  field,  and  taken  from 
stalks  which  bore  more  than  two  ears  each.     The  grains 


44  MEMOIR    ON 

of  this  corn  are  large,  the  cob  small,  and  the  ears 
usually  from  ten  to  thirteen  inches  in  length,  with  only 
eight  rows.  It  ripens  a  little  later  vthan  the  golden 
Sioux,  and  is  very  prolific,  the  greatest  crop,  per  acre, 
that  has  yet  been  raised,  being  136  bushels,  weighing, 
in  the  ear,  9,520  lbs.,  or  70  lbs.  to  the  bushel,  and  58 
lbs.,  when  shelled. 

3.  Canada  Corn  ox  Eight-rowed  Yellow. — This  corn, 
which  is  smaller,  earlier,  and  more  solid  than  any  of 
the  preceding,  contains  more  oil  than  any  other  variety, 
except  the  rice  corn,  and  the  pop  corn,  properly  so 
called.  It  is  highly  valued  for  fattening  poultry,  swine, 
&c,  and  is  grown  by  many,  in  gardens,  for  early  boiling 
or  roasting,  when  green.  Notwithstanding  it  is  very 
prolific  in  ears,  it  is  seldom  planted  in  fields,  except  in 
regions  where  the  larger  kinds  will  not  thrive. 

4.  Dutton  Corn,  a  variety  first  brought  into  notice, 
in  1818,  by  Mr.  Salmon  Dutton,  of  Cavendish,  Ver- 
mont. The  ears  of  corn  from  which  it  was  originally 
selected,  on  an  average,  were  from  eight  to  twelve 
inches  long,  and  contained  from  twelve  to  eighteen 
rows.  The  cob  is  larger,  and  sometimes  grows  to  the 
length  of  fourteen  or  fifteen  inches,  but  the  grain  is  so 
compact  upon  it,  that  two  bushels  of  sound  ears  have 
yielded  five  pecks  of  shelled  corn,  weighing  62  lbs.  to  the 
bushel.  With  proper  management,  an  acre  of  ground 
will  produce  from  100  to  120  bushels.  As  it  abounds 
in  oil,  gives  a  good  yield,  and  ripens  at  least  two  weeks 
earlier  than  the  Canada  corn,  it  has  long  been  a  fa- 
vourite for  culture  at  the  North. 

5.  Southern  Big  Yellow  Corn. — The  cob  of  this 
variety  is  thick  and  long,  the  grains  much  wider  than 
deep,  and  where  the  rows  unite  with  each  other,  their 
sides  fall  off  almost  to  a  point.  This  gives  the  ouside 
ends  of  the  grain  a  circular  form,  which  imparts  to  the 
ear  an  appearance  somewhat  resembling  a  fluted  column. 
The  grain  contains  less  oil  and  more  starch  than  the 
northern  flinty  kinds,  yet  its  outward  texture  is  some- 
what solid,  flinty,  and  firm.  It  comes  rather  late  into 
maturity,  affords  an  abundant  yield,  and  is  much  used 


INDIAN    CORN.  45 

for  fattening  swine.  Mixed  with  either  of  the  white 
gourd-seed  varieties  the  Yellow  Gourd- Seed  is  produced, 
which  is  often  mistaken  for  an  original  form. 

6.  Southern  Small  Yellow  Com. — The  ears  of  this 
sort  are  more  slender,  as  well  as  shorter,  than  the  last 
named  variety ;  the  grains  are  smaller,  though  of  the 
same  form,  of  a  deeper  yellow,  more  firm  and  flinty,  and 
contain  an  abundance  of  oil,  which  renders  them  more 
valuable  for  the  purposes  of  shipping,  or  for  feeding  to 
poultry  and  swine.  Although  it  is  less  productive  than 
the  big  yellow,  it  ripens  earlier,  and  consequently  is 
sooner  out  of  the  reach  of  the  autumnal  frosts.  Some 
valuable  hybrids  have  been  produced  between  this  and 
the  big  yellow,  the  Virginian  white  gourd-seed,  and 
other  large  varieties. 

White  Corn. — The  varieties  which  constitute  this 
division  are  exceedingly  variable,  both  as  regards  their 
composition  and  size,  as  well  as  in  their  yield  and  times 
of  coming  to  maturity. 

1.  Rhode  Island  White  Flint-Corn. — The  grains  of 
this  variety  are  about  the  size  and  shape  of  those  of  the 
Tuscarora  corn,  but  differ  from  them  in  containing  an 
abundance  of  a  transparent  and  colourless  oil,  which 
may  easily  be  seen  through  their  clear,  pellucid  hulls. 
The  farinaceous  parts  of  the  grains  are  white,  and  as 
the  quantity  of  oil  they  contain  is  large,  the  flour  is 
more  substantial  as  an  article  of  food,  and  less  liable 
to  ferment  and  become  sour.  In  Rhode  Island,  where 
it  produces  an  abundant  yield,  it  is  a  favourite  grain, 
and  stands  in  high  repute. 

2.  Southern  Big  White  Flint- Corn,  having  a  large 
thick  cob,  with  twelve  rows  of  kernels,  much  resem- 
bling, in  shape  and  size,  those  of  the  big  yellow,  and 
like  that  variety,  is  less  productive  than  the  white 
Virginian  gourd-seed.  It  contains  more  starch,  and 
less  oil  than  the  northern  flint-corn  ;  but  is  much 
softer  and  a  better  food  for  horses,  though  not  so  fat- 
tening to  poultry  and  swine.  When  ground  into  meal, 
It  is  apt  to  become  sour,  and  consequently  is  unfit  to  be 


46  MEMOIR    ON 

shipped  in  that  state,  unless  previously  prepared  by 
being  kiln-dried.  From  this  variety  originated  the 
genuine  White  Flint- Corn,  employed  for  making  the 
excellent  hommony,  so  much  in  use  in  the  Middle  and 
Southern  States. 

3.  Southern  Little  White  Flint-Corn. — The  kernels 
of  this  variety  are  considerably  smaller  than  those  of 
the  preceding,  and  much  resemble  them  in  shape  ;  but 
they  are  more  firm  and  solid,  contain  more  oil,  and 
consequently  are  more  valuable  for  feeding  poultry  and 
swine,  and  for  human  food.  Although  the  cob  is  smaller 
in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  ears,  the  yield,  per  acre, 
is  less  abundant,  and  hence  it  is  but  little  grown. 

4.  Duiton  White  Flint-Corn,  a  variety  not  differing 
materially  from  the  yellow  Dutton  corn,  except  in  the 
colour  of  its  oil. 

5.  Early  Canadian  White  Flint-Corn,  cultivated 
principally  for  early  boiling  or  roasting,  while  green. 

6.  Tuscarora  Com,  a  variety  obtained  from  the 
Tuscarora  Indians,  in  the  state  of  New  York.  The 
ears  contain  from  twelve  to  sixteen  rows  of  grains, 
which  are  nearly  as  deep  as  they  are  broad,  of  a 
whitish  colour  on  the  exterior,  and  composed  entirely 
within,  of  pure  white  dextrine  and  starch,  except  the 
germs.  As  it  contains  neither  gluten  nor  oil,  it  may 
profitably  be  employed  in  the  manufacture  of  starch. 
It  is  much  softer,  and  better  food  for  horses  than  the 
flinty  kinds,  and  if  used  before  it  becomes  sour,  it  may 
be  converted  into  an  excellent  bread. 

7.  White  Flour-Corn. — The  ears  of  this  variety  con- 
tain twelve  rows  of  rather  thick,  roundish  grains,  whicl 
are  filled  with  a  snowy  white  flour,  composed  principally 
of  starch,  but  does  not  contain  either  gluten  or  oil.     It 
is  much  used  in  some  parts  of  the  country,  particularly 
in  New  Jersey,  for  grinding  up  with  buck-wheat"  mixed 
in  proportions  of  four  or  five  to  one  of  corn,  in  order 
to  improve  the  colour  and  other  qualities  of  the  buck- 
wheat flour.     As  it  possesses  similar  properties  as  the 
preceding  variety,  it  may  be  profitably  employed  for  the 
same  purposes. 


INDIAN    CORK.  47 

8.  Virginia  White  Gourd- Seed  Corn. — The  ears  of 
this  corn,  which  are  not  very  long,  neither  is  the  cob  so 
large  as  those  of  the  big  white  or  yellow  flint,  contain 
from  twenty-four  to  thirty-six  rows  of  very  long,  nar- 
row grains  of  so  soft  and  open  a  texture,  that  they  will 
not  bear  transportation,  by  sea,  unless  they  are  pre- 
viously kiln-dried,  or  completely  excluded  from  the 
moist  air.  These  grains  at  their  exterior  ends  are 
almost  flat,  and  grow  so  closely  together  from  the  cob 
to  the  surface,  that  they  produce  a  greater  yield  than 
any  other  variety,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  ears. 
They  contain  more  starch  and  less  gluten  and  oil  than 
those  of  the  flint  kinds  ;  and  from  their  softness,  they 
serve  as  better  food  for  horses,  but  are  less  nourishing 
to  poultry  and  swine.  The  colour  of  this  variety  is 
always  white/  unless  it  has  been  crossed  with  other 
kinds,  which  may  invariably  be  known  by  a  small  in- 
denture in  the  ends  of  the  grains,  when  perfectly  dried. 
The  oily  and  glutinous  parts  of  the  Virginian  gourd- 
seed  always  occur  on  the  sides  of  its  elongated  grains, 
while  the  starch  projects  quite  through  to  their  sum- 
mits, and  by  contraction  in  drying,  produces  the  pits 
or  depressions  peculiar  to  their  ends.  This  variety  is 
later  ripe,  though  more  productive  than  any  other 
kind.  Several  valuable  hybrids  have  been  jDroduced 
by  its  cross  fecundation  with  the  yellow  and  white  flinty 
sorts,  among  which,  are  the  Yellow  Gourd-  Seed,  and 
the  celebrated  Burden  and  Baden  varieties,  the  latter  of 
which,  has  produced  as  many  as  ten  ears  to  a  stalk ! 

9.  Early  Sweet  or  Sugar  Corn,  sometimes  called 
Pappoon  Corn. — This  variety  was  introduced  into 
Massachusetts,  in  1779,  by  Captain  Richard  Bagnal, 
of  Plymouth,  from  the  country  bordering  on  the  Sus- 
quehannah,  on  his  return  from  the  expedition  against 
the  tribes  of  the  Six  Nations,  under  the  command  of 
General  Sullivan.  There  are  two  kinds  of  this  corn, 
one  with  the  cob  red,  and  the  other  white.  The  ears 
are  short,  and  usually  contain  eight  rows,  the  grains  of 
which,  when  mature,  are  of  a  light  colour,  and  become 
shrivelled  and  appear  as  if  they  were  unripe.     It  con- 


48  INDIAN    CORN. 

tains  an  unusually  large  proportion  of  the  phosphates, 
and  a  considerable  quantity  of  sugar  and  gum,  though 
but  little  starch.  It  is  extensively  cultivated  for  culi- 
nary purposes,  and  serves  as  a  delicious  food,  either 
green  or  dry. 

HiEMETiTE  or  Blood-red  Corn,  and  Varieties  op 
Different  Shades. — The  lively  hues,  peculiar  to  the 
red,  blue,  and  purple  corns,  generally  depend  on 
the  shades  of  the  epidermis  of  the  grains,  and  not  the 
oil.  The  origin  of  these  colours  appears  to  be  purely 
accidental,  as  white  and  yellow  varieties  have  been 
planted  at  remote  distances  from  any  other  kind,  and 
have  produced  kernels  of  a  brilliant  red.  The  different 
shades  of  colour  in  corn  are  supposed  to  be  caused  by 
different  proportions  of  iron,  or  other  metals,  com- 
bined with  oxygen  and  some  acid  principle,  acted  upon 
by  the  rays  of  light. 

1.  Rice  Corn,  a  variety  with  small  ears,  the  grains 
of  which  are  of  various  shades  of  colour,  and  often  are 
of  the  size  and  shape  of  rice.  It  contains  more  oil  and 
less  starch  than  any  other  kind  ;  and  when  ground,  its 
meal  cannot  be  made  into  bread  alone,  but  is  dry  like 
sand.  From  its  oily  nature  and  convenient  size,  this 
corn  is  peculiarly  adapted  for  feeding  fowls.* 

2.  Pop  or  Parching  Corn,  sometimes  called  Valpa- 
raiso Corn  (Zea  curagua,  of  botanists.)  The  ears  of 
this  variety  are  small,  the  grains  of  various  shades 
of  colour,  and  contain,  next  to  the  rice  corn,  more  oil 
and  less  starch,  than  any  other  kind.  Its  flavour  is 
pleasant,  when  parched,  for  which  purpose  it  is  generally 
preferred.  This  variety  is  believed  to  be  the  Car  a  of 
the  Incas  of  Peru,  which,  when  parched,  they  call  Can- 
cha,  signifying  a  neighbourhood  or  street. 

*  See  Dr.  Jackson's  Report,  pp.  258  et  259. 


PREPARATION     AND    DIRECTIONS 
FOR  COOKING  INDIAN  CORN. 

Kiln-drying. -An  order  to  prepare  Indian  corn  for  shipping,  it 
should  previously  undergo  the  process  of  kiln-drying,  which 
is  performed  by  parching  or  drying  it  in  a  heated  chamber, 
or  in  a  cylinder  of  wire- work,  or  sheet-iron,  exposed  over  a  fur- 
nace or  stove,  a  sufficient  length  of  time  to  destroy  its  sprouting 
or  germinating  power.  The  temperature  of  the  chamber,  in 
which  it  is  dried,  should  not  much  exceed  the  boiling  point  of  wa- 
ter, or  212°  F. ;  but  the  time  required  for  exposing  the  grain  should 
vary  according  to  the  openness  or  compactness  of  its  texture,  its 
degree  of  moisture  or  dryness,  and  the  scarcity  or  abundance  of  the 
oil  which  it  may  contain.  As  a  general  rule,  it  should  be  removed 
from  the  kiln  as  soon  as  the  burnt  or  parched  odour  is  perceived, 
as  it  then  begins  to  lose  its  substance  or  nutritive  power. 

The  varieties  of  corn  that  will  best  bear  transportation  by  sea 
without  kiln-drying,  are  those  which  contain  a  large  proportion 
of  oil,  as  the  Golden  Sioux,  the  King  Philip  or  Northern  Eight- 
rowed  Yellow,  the  Dutton,  the  Browne,  the  Rhode  Island  White 
Flint,  &c,  but  the  flour  or  meal,  made  from  these  sorts  is  not  so 
pleasant  to  the  taste  of  those  unaccustomed  to  its  use,  as  that  made 
from  the  soft  farinaceous  varieties  of  the  South  and  West,  which 
will  be  greatly  improved,  and  preserved  free  from  mustiness,  by 
the  process  of  kiln-drying. 

Grinding. — It  has  truly  been  said,  that  "  No  kind  of  grain  is 
actually  spoiled  by  grinding  too  fine,  except  Indian  corn,"  although 
wheat  is  somewhat  injured.  But  good  corn  bread,  hommony, 
mush,  and  various  other  dishes  cannot  be  made  of  flour  ground  too 
fine.  For  all  ordinary  purposes,  the  common  mill  employed  for 
grinding  wheat,  answers  equally  well  for  grinding  maize.  When 
it  is  required  to  grind  the  corn  coarse,  it  is  necessary  only  to 
elevate  ihe  uppermost  stone  and  increase  its  speed ;  or  to  depress 
the  stone  and  diminish  its  velocity  to  grind  it  fine.  In  general, 
the  grits,  or  larger  parts  of  the  meal,  should  vary  from  one  fourth 
the  size  of  a  grain  of  mustard  to  that  of  a  grain  of  rice,  according 
to  the  uses  to  which  they  are  to  be  applied.  For  very  exact  and 
special  kinds  of  meal,  the  Kibbling-mill  is  preferable,  in  many 
respects,  as  the  size  and  uniformity  of  the  grits  can  be  regulated  at 
pleasure  by  an  indifferent  hand ;  whereas,  in  the  common  mill 
for  grinding  wheat,  their  degree  of  fineness  or  coarseness,  depends 
entirely  on  the  judgment  and  skill  of  the  miller  by  regulating  the 
position  and  velocity  of  the  uppermost  stone,  and  a  due  attention 
to  feeding  in  the  grain. 


50 


RECIPES. 


A  kibbling-mill  consist  of  "  a  small  iron  cylinder,  usually 
about  eight  or  nine  inches  wide,  and  six  inches  in  diameter,  taper- 
ing slightly  to  one  end,  and  fluted  on  the  inside.  Within  this, 
a  barrel  of  the  same  form,  but  of  a  less  size,  and  fluted  on  the 
outside,  revolves  by  the  turning  of  a  spindle  on  which  it  is  fixed. 
The  meal  is  rendered  finer  or  coarser  in  proportion  as  the  working 
barrel  is  set  nearer  to,  or  farther  from,  the  small  end.  This  mill 
is  made  entirely  of  iron  and  steel,  and  is  usually  attached  to  a 
post.  It  is  provided  with  a  hopper,  and  is  worked  by  a  crank 
fixed  at  one  end  of  the  spindle,  while  a  fly-wheel  revolves  at  the 
other.  It  is  used  for  beans,  peas,  and  other  pulse ;  for  malt  and 
various  kinds  of  grain,  and  is  a  very  useful  and  ingenious  con- 
trivance,, but  requires  care  in  its  adjustment  and  general  manage- 
ment."* b 


ttl$£&. 


The  following  recipes  have  been  obtained  from-  persons  of  skill 
and  experience  in  the  preparation  of  maize  for  food,,  several  of 
them  having  been  presented  to  the  New- York  Farmers'  Club, 
with  samples  of  cooking,  which  were  pronounced  as  excellent,  and 
met  the  entire  approbation  of  all  who  tasted  them. 

HOW  TO  BOIL  GREEN  CORN. 

The  proper  state  in  which  to  eat  green  corn,  is  at  the  time  that 
the  milk  flows  upon  pressing  the  kernels  with  the  thumb  nail.  It 
is  best  when  boiled  in  the  ear  with  the  husks  on,  the  latter  of  which 
should  be  stripped  off  when  brought  to  the  table.  The  ears  should 
then  be  covered  with  butter,  with  a  little  salt  added,  and  the  grains 
eaten  off  the  cob.  Over-refined  people  think  this  vulgar,  and  shave 
them  off  close  to  the  core,  but  in  so  Joing  they  lose  much  of  their 
sweetness. — American  Agriculturist. 


HOW  TO  POP  OR  PARCH  CORN. 

Fill  an  iron  pot  with  sand,  and  set  on  the  fire  till  the  sand  is 
very  hot.  Two  or  three  pounds  ot  the  grain  are  then  thrown  in, 
and  well  mixed  with  the  sand  by  stirring.  Each  grain  bursts  and 
throws  out  a  white  substance  of  twice  (four  times)  its  bigness. 
The  sand  is  separated  by  a  wire  sieve,  and  returned  into  the  pot 
to  be  again  heated,  and  repeat  the  operation  with  fresh  grain.    That 

*  Professor  Johnsou. 


RECIPES.  51 

which  is  parched  is  pounded  to  a  powder  in  mortars.  This  being 
sifted  will  keep  long  for  use.  An  Indian  will  travel  far,  and  sub- 
sist long  on  a  small  bag  of  it,  taking  only  six  or  eight  ounces  of  it 
per  day,  mixed  with  water. — Dr.  Franklin. 

Modern  Modes  of  Popping  Corn. — Take  a  gill,  a  half  pint, 
or  more  of  Valparaiso-  or  Pop  Corn,  and  put  in  a  frying-pan, 
slightly  buttered,  or  rubbed  with  lard.  Hold  the  pan  over  a  fire  so 
as  constantly  to  stir  or  shake  the  corn  within,  and  in  a  few  minutes 
each  kernel  will  pop,  or  turn  inside  out,  and  is  ready  for  immediate 
use.  May  be  eaten  with,  or  without,  a  little  sugar  or  salt,  added 
while  hot  in  the  pan. 

A  very  ingenious  contrivance  has  been  invented  within  a  few 
years  for  parching  corn,  which,  if  rightly  managed,  surpasses  every 
other  mode.  It  consists  of  a  box  made  of  wire -gauze,  with  the 
apertures  not  exceeding  one  twentieth  of  an  inch  square,  and  is  so 
constructed  that  the  corn  can  be  put  within  it,  without  being  burnt., 
and  can  be  held  over  a  hot  fire  made  either  of  wood  or  coal.  The 
carburetted  hydrogen  gas,  produced  within  the  box  by  the  decom- 
position of  the  oil  in  the  corn,  is  prevented  from  explosion  in  a 
similar  manner  asjire-damp,  in  mines,  is  prevented  from  explosion 
by  the  safety-lamp. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  SUCCOTASH. 

To  about  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  add  3  quarts  of  cold  water, 
and  set  it  to  boil.  Now  cut  off  3  quarts  of  green  corn  from  the 
cobs ;  set  the  corn  aside,  and  put  the  cobs  to  boil  with  the  pork,  as 
they  will  add  much  to  the  richness  of  the  mixture.  When  the 
pork  has  boiled,  say  half  an  hour,  remove  the  cobs  and  put  in  1 
quart  of  freshly-gathered,  green,  shelled  beans;  boil  again  for 
fifteen  minutes ;  then  add  the  3  quarts  of  corn  and  let  it  boil  an- 
other fifteen  minutes.  Now  turn  the  whole  into  a  dish,  add  five 
or  six  large  spoonfuls  of  butter,  season  it  with  pepper  to  your  taste, 
and  with  salt  also,  if  the  salt  of  the  pork  has  not  proved  sufficient. 
If  the  liquor  has  boiled  away,  it  will  be  necessary  to  add  a  little 
more  to  it  before  taking  it  away  from  the  fire,  as  this  is  an  essen- 
tial part  of  the  affair. —  Western  Farmer  and  Gardener. 

Succotash  in  Winter. — Take,  when  green,  your  corn  either 
on  the  cob,  or  carefully  shelled,  and  your  beans  in  the  pod.  Dip 
them  in  boiling  water,  and  carefully  dry  them  in  the  shade  where 
there  is  a  free  circulation  of  air.  Pack  them  up  in  a  box  or  bag,  in 
which  they  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place ;  and  succotash  may  be 
made  from  them  as  well  in  winter  as  in  summer. — Agriculturist. 


52  RECIPES. 

HOW  TO  PREPARE  SAMP  OR  HULLED 

CORN. 

Take  a  pint,  a  quart,  or  more,  of  the  grains  of  bard,  ripe  flint, 
or  gourd-seed  corn  ;  soak  them  over  night  in  a  lessive  or  ley,  and 
then  pound  them  in  a  large  wooden  mortar,  with  a  wooden  pestle  ; 
the  skin  of  each  grain  is  by  that  means  peeled  off,  and  the  farina- 
ceous part  left  whole,  which,  being  boiled,  swells  into  a  white, 
soft,  pulp,  and  eaten  with  milk,  or  with  butter  and  sugar,  is  deli- 
cious.— Dr.  Franklin. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  HOMMONY. 

Wash  a  pint  of  grits  (particles  of  flint-corn  ground  to  one  fourth 
the  size  of  a  grain  of  mustard,  with  the  liner  parts  of  the  flour 
separated  by  a  sieve)  in  two  or  three  waters,  taking  care  each  time 
to  let  them  settle.  When  you  pour  off  the  water  the  grits  must  be 
well  rubbed  with  the  hands  in  order  to  separate  them  from  the  finer 
particles  of  flour.  Then  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  a  pint  of 
water  slightly  salted,  and  let  them  boil  slowly  for  nearly  half  an 
hour,  occasionally  stirring  the  mixture  as  soon  as  it  begins  to 
boil. 

Hommony  may  be  boiled  to  any  consistency,  that  may  be  pre- 
ferred, from  that  of  mush  to  the  dryness  of  rice. — A.  Barclay,  Esq., 
H.  B.  M.  Consul  at  New  York. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  INDIAN  GRUEL. 

Take  1  quart  of  boiling  water  and  stir  in  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls 
of  finely-sifted  Indian  meal,  previously  mixed  with  a  little  cold 
water.  Add  salt  to  your  liking,  and  let  the  mixture  boil  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes.  A  small  quantity  of  pulverized  crackers, 
a  few  raisins,  or  a  little  sugar  added,  will  render  it  more  palatable 
to  the  sick. — From,  a  Lady. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  HASTY-PUDDING, 

Called  Mush,  by  the  Pennsylvanians ;  Supporn,  in  the  state  of 
New  York ;  Stir-a-bout,  in  Ireland ;  Polenta,  in  Italy ;  and  Apt, 
by  the  ancient  Peruvians.  Boil  a  quart,  3  pints,  or  2  quarts  of 
water,  according  to  the  size  of  your  family.  Stir  into  a  bowl  of 
cold  water,  5  or  6  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  Indian  meal,  and  pour  it 
into  the  kettle  of  water  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil.  Stir  the  mix- 
ture well,  add  salt  to  your  taste,  and  let  it  boil  down  to  a 
thick  gruel.    Then  sprinkle  in,  handful  by  handful,  finely-sifted 


MBMaaiMHaa«iaooflnaaPM»in»wwpi 


RECIPES.  53 

Indian  meal,  stirring-  briskly  all  the  while  with  a  wooden  spatula 
or  slice,  until  it  is  sufficiently  stiff  to  need  a  strong-  hand.  It 
usually  requires  about  half  of  an  hour  to  be  thoroughly  cooked. 
May  be  eaten  with  milk,  butter,  sugar,  or  molasses. — A  Lady. 

Fried  Hasty-Pudding. — Cut  the  pudding,  when  cold,  into  slices 
half  of  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  them  brown,  on  both  sides,  in  a  little 
butter  or  lard,  and  it  serves  as  an  excellent  substitute  for  potatoes 
or  buck-wheat  cakes.  If  made  of  the  meal  of  white  or  yellow 
flint-corn,  a  small  quantity  of  wheaten  or  rye  flour  should  be 
added  to  the  mush,  while  cooking,  to  prevent  its  crumbling  when 
fried. — Ibid. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  BOILED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  and  stir  in  Indian  meal  till  it  is  nearly  as 
thick  as  you  can  stir  it  with  a  spoon ;  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  cupful  of  molasses,  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  or  ground  cinnamon, 
and  cold  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Boil  in  a  thick  bag 
four  hours.  Care  should  be  taken  that  the  water  does  not  stop 
boiling  while  the  pudding  is  in.  A  dish  made  in  this  way,  with  the 
addition  of  a  quart  of  chopped,  sweet  apples,  and  baked  from  four 
to  six  hours  will  be  found  delicious,  when  served  up  hot  and  eaten 
with  sauce  made  of  drawn-butter,  nutmeg,  and  wine. — A  Lady. 

The  Farmer's  Own  Pudding. — Take  3  lbs.  of  northern  yellow 
corn  meal,  1  lb.  of  beef  suet,  1  lb.  of  dried  currants,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salseratus,  and  incorporate  the  whole,  while  dry,  well  to- 
gether in  a  large  dish.  Then  add,and  continually  stir,  lg  pints  of 
molasses,  and  a  sufficient  quantity  of  boiling-hot  water  to  reduce 
the  mixture  to  the  thickness  of  common  mush,  and  let  it  stand  over 
night  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  The  next  morning,  tie  up  the 
whole  in  a  wide-mouthed  bag,  taking  care  to  leave  room  enough 
within,  to  allow  the  pudding  to  swell,  and  incessantly  boil  for  four 
or  five  hours.  This  pudding  may  be  eaten  while  hot,  with,  or 
without  sauce,  and  will  be  sufficiently  large  to  feed  twenty  men. 
One  half,  or  one  fourth  of  the  quantity  of  ingredients  may  be  em- 
ployed, and  treated  in  the  same  manner  as  the  whole. — A  Lady. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

To  2  quarts  of  milk,  add  1  quart  of  meal,  a  little  salt,  and  a  cupful 
of  sugar.  Prepare  by  heating  the  milk  over  the  fire,  stirring  it 
occasionally  to  prevent  its  burning  ;  when  it  nearly  boils,  remove 
it,  put  in  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  scatter  in  the  meal,  stirring 
rapidly  to  prevent  its  collecting  into  lumps  ;  put  in  nutmeg  and 
turn  into  a  deep  pan.  Bake  immediately,  or  otherwise,  as  may  be 
convenient,  in  a  hot  oven,  three  hours.    When  it  has  baked  an 


»—wM»n»i«mni—mimt— — wn— — m— 


54  RECIPES. 

hour  or  more,  pour  over  the  pudding  from  a  gill  to  a  half  pint  of 
milk  ;  this  will  soften  the  crust  and  form  a  delicious  whey. 

An  inferior  pudding  may  be  made  by  substituting  skimmed  milk 
and  molasses,  with  allspice  or  ginger,  for  seasoning.  This  is  the 
common  Yankee  pudding.  Variations  can  be  made  by  adding 
chopped  suet,  apples,  peaches,  berries,  or  raisins. — Burriit. 

Suffolk  County,  L.  I.,  Indian  Pudding. — Heat  3  half  pints  of 
milk  to  boiling;  mix  your  corn  meal  with  a  half  pint  of  cold  milk, 
the  meal  having  been  previously  sifted  ;  and  pour  the  cold  milk 
and  meal  into  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  continuously.  When 
scalded,  take  it  off  the  fire  and  let  it  cool  down  to  blood  warm.  Then 
mix  in  10  eggs,  previously  beaten,  until  they  will  stand  alone,  a 
little  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  allspice  or  pimento; 
sweeten  with  sugar  or  molasses  ;  stir  in  a  pinch  of  ground  ginger, 
a  pinch  of  grated  dried  lemon  peel,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  bake. 
Good  either  hot  or  cold. — From  Professor  Mapes. 

Prescott  Pudding. — Take  a  teacupful  of  fine  Indian  meal,  and 
a  pint  Gf  molasses  well  mixed.  Add,  by  constantly  stirring,  a  quart 
of  hot,  boiling  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  of  the  size  of  an  English 
walnut,  3  eggs,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Pour  the  mixture  into 
a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  three  hours. 
This  pudding  was  much  used  in  the  family  of  the  late  Judge  Pres- 
cott, of  Boston,  in  Massachusetts,  from  whose  lady  this  recipe  was 
obtained. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  CORN  BREAD. 

In  stopping  at  Bement's  American  Hotel,  in  Albany,  a  few 
weeks  since,  I  do  not  know  when  I  relished  any  food  better  than  I 
did  some  excellent  corn  bread,  which  I  found  on  his  breakfast 
table.  I  was  so  well  pleased  with  the  article,  as  well  as  with  the 
general  character  of  his  house,  that  I  begged  of  him  to  furnish  me 
with  a  recipe  for  making  it,  which  is  as  follows  : — 

Take  3  quarts  of  milk,  a  little  sour,  7  eggs,  2  ounces  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salseratus,  and  mix  with  Indian  meal,  to  the 
consistency  of  a  thick  batter,  and  bake  with  a  strong  heat.  The 
pans  used  for  baking  are  of  tin,  8  inches  in  diameter,  lg  inches 
deep,  and  a  little  bevelled.  The  above  is  sufficient  for  seven  or 
eight  loaves. — American  Agriculturist.  A  Traveller. 

Indian  Bannock. — Take  1  quart  of  sifted  meal,  2  great  spoon- 
fuls of  molasses,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  a  bit  of  shortening  half  as 
big  as  a  hen's  egg,  stirred  together;  make  it  pretty  moi:*t  with 
scalding  water  ;  put  it  into  a  well  greased  pan  ;  smooth  over  the 
surface  with  a  spoon,  and  bake  it  brown  on  both  sides,  before  a 
quick  fire.  A  little  stewed  pumpkin,  scalded  with  the  meal,  im- 
proves the  taste.  Bannock  split  and  dipped  in  butter  makes  very 
i)ice  toast. — From  a  Lady. 


RECIPES.  55 

Superior  Corn  BREAD.^Take  1  quart  of  sour  milk,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  8  eggs  and  a  handful  of  Indian  meal,  briskly 
stirring  the  mixture  while  adding  the  meaL  To  this  add 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salseratus,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  and  stir  in  alternately  the  beaten  white  of  the  eggs,  and  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  meal  to  form  a  smooth  batter  of  the  consis- 
sistency  of  hasty-pudding.  Then  quickly  turn  the  mixture  into 
well  buttered  tins,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven.  The  time  required 
for  baking  will  depend  upon  the  size  and  thickness  of  the  bread. 
For  smaller  parcels  one  half  or  one  fourth  of  the  above-named 
materials  may  be  used. — From  Judson's  Hotel,  61  Broadway,  N.  Y. 

A  Rich  Corn  Bread. — I  send  you  a  receipt  for  making  corn 
bread,  such  as  is  used  at  every  meal  at  my  house.  I  have  stopped 
at  nearly  all  the  fashionable  hotels  in  the  Union,  and  never  have 
found  anything  that  has  equalled  it.  It  should  be  tried  by  every 
one  who  wishes  to  have  a  superior  bread. 

Take  1  egg  well  beaten,  a  half  pint  of  thick  cream,  Indian  meal 
sufficient  to  form  a  thick  batter,  a  small  quantity  of  salt ;  add  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salceratus,  dissolved  in  a  small  quantity  of  water ; 
after  mixing  thoroughly,  put  it  into  the  pans  or  oven,  and  bake 
immediate] y.^- American  Agriculturist. 

Centreville,  Miss.,  April  15,  1846.  E.  J.  Caeell. 

Excellent  Hommony  Bread. — Break  2  eggs  into  a  bowl  and 
beat  them  from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Add,  by  continually  stirring,  a 
salt-spoon  of  table  salt,  4  or  5  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  hommony 
reduced  nearly  to  the  consistency  of  thick  gruel  with  hot  milk,  1 
large  spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  pint  of  scalded  Indian  meal  squeezed 
dry.  Make  up  the  mixture  into  small  loaves  or  round  cakes  lg 
inches  thick,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven. — From  A.  Barclay,  Esq., 
H.  B.  M.  Consul  at  New  York. 

Epicure's  Corn  Bread. — Upon  2  quarts  of  sifted  corn  meal 
pour  just  enough  boiling  water  to  scald  it  thoroughly ;  if  too  much 
water  is  used  it  will  be  heavy.  Stir  it  thoroughly,  and  let  it  get  cold  ; 
then  rub  in  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg,  together  with 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  fine  salt;  beat  4  eggs  thoroughly,  which  will  be 
all  the  better  if  the  whites  and  yolks  are  beaten  separately,  and  add 
them  to  the  meal  and  mix  thoroughly.  Next,  add  a  pint  of  sour 
cream,  butter-milk,  or  sour  milk  ( which  stand  in  the,  order  of 
their  value.)  Dissolve  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salaeratus  in  hot  water, 
and  stir  it  in.     Put  it  in  buttered  pans  and  bake  it. 

In  winter  it  may  be  mixed  over  night  and  in  that  case,  the  eggs 
and  salaeratus  should  no'-  be  put  in.  until  morning.  When  ready 
for  the  oven,  the  mixture  ought  to  be  about  as  thin  as  good  musk-, 
if  not,  more  cream  should  be  added. 

If  you  are  not  an  epicure  already,  you  will  be  in  danger  of  be- 
coming one,  if  you  eat  much  of  this  corn  cake — provided  it  is  well 
made. — Beecher's  Western^  Farmers^  and  Gardeners'  Almanac. 


66  RECIPES. 

Hoosier  Biscuit. — Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  pint  of  new 
milk,  warm  from  the  cow.  Stir  in  flour  until  it  becomes  a  stiff 
batter;  add  2  great  spoonfuls  of  lively  brewer's  yeast;  put  it  in  a 
warm  place  and  let  it  rise  j list  as  much  as  it  will.  When  well 
raised,  stir  in  a  teasponful  of  salaeratus  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Beat  up  3  eggs,  (2  will  answer.)  stir  with  the  batter,  and  add  flour 
until  it  becomes  tolerably  stiff  dough  ;  knead  it  thoroughly,  set  it 
by  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  rise,  then  roll  out,  cut  to  biscuit  form, 
put  in  pans,  cover  it  over  with  a  thick  cloth,  set  by  the  fire  until  it 
raises  again,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If  well  made,  no  direc- 
tion will  be  needed  for  eating.  [This  bread  is  thought  to  be  im- 
proved by  adding  to  the  mixture  a  small  quantity  of  Indian  meal.] 

As  all  families  are  not  provided  with  scales  and  weights,  refer- 
ring to  ingredients  generally  used  in  cakes  and  pastry,  we  subjoin 
a  list  of  weights  and  measures. 

WEIGHT    AND    MEASURE. 

"Wheat  flour,  1  pound                    is  1  quart. 

Indian  meal,  1  pound,  2  ounces,  is  1  quart. 

Butter,  when  soft,  1  pound,  1  ounce,    is  1  quart. 

Loaf-sugar,  broken,  1  pound                    is  1  quart. 
White  sugar,  powder'd,  1  pound,  1  ounce,    is  1  quart. 

Best  brown  sugar,  1  pound,  2  ounces,  is  1  quart. 

Eggs,  average  size,  10  eggs                    are  1  pound. 

LIQ.UID   MEASURE. 

Sixteen  large  tablespoonfuls  are  half  a  pint. 

Eight  large  tablespoon fuls  are  one      gilL 

Four  large  tablespoonfuls  are  half  a  gill. 

A  common  sized  tumbler  holds  half  a  pint. 

A  common  sized  wine  glass  holds  half  a  gill. 

Allowing  for  accidental  differences  in  the  quality,  freshness, 
dryness,  and  moisture  of  the  articles,  we  believe  this  comparison 
between  weight  and  measure  to  be  nearly  correct.— Ibid. 

Boston  Brown  BREAD.-Take  1  quart  of  rye  meal,  2  quarts 
of  Indian,  (if  not  fresh,  scald  it,)  half  a  teacupful  of  molasses,  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  I  teaspoonful  of  salaeratus,  1  tea-cup  of 
home-brewed  veast,  or  half  the  quantity  of  distillery  yeast,  make  it 
as  stiff  as  can 'be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  with  warm  water,  and  let  it 
rise  from  night  till  morning.  Then  put  it  into  a  large,  deep  pan, 
smooth  the  top  with  the  hand,  dipped  in  cold  water,  let  it  stand  a 
few  minutes,  and  then  bake  in  an  oven  five  or  six  hours  If  put 
in  late  in  the  day,  it  may  remain  in  the  oven  over  night— Mm* 
Beecher's  Domestic  Receipt  Book. 


./ 


Deacidified  using  the  Bookkeeper  process. 
Neutralizing  agent:  Magnesium  Oxide 
Treatment  Date:  Sept.  2009 

PreservationTechnologies 

A  WORLD  LEADER  IN  COLLECTIONS  PRESERVATION 

1 1 1  Thomson  Park  Drive 
Cranberry  Township,  PA  1 6066 
(724)779-2111 


