im 


M,  % 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS, 

COPYRIGHT  OFFICE. 

No  registration  of  title  of  this  book 
as  a  preliminary  to  copyright  protec- 
tion has  been  found. 

SEP    7    1905 


Forwarded  to  Order  Division 


(Date) 


(Apr.  5,  1901—5,000. 


M* 


Copyright^0 


COFTO1CHT  DEPOSIT. 


HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD. 


{ 


HEALTH 


IN    THE 


HOUSEHOLD; 


OK, 


HYGIENIC    COOKERY. 


BY 


SUSANNA    W.    DODDS,     A.M.,M.D 

V 


'No  spice  but  hunger;  no  stimulant  but  exercise." 

FELIX   L.    OSWALD,    M.D. 


SIXTH  EDITION. 
ST.  LOUIS: 

S.  W.  &  M.  DODDS,  PUBLISHERS, 

4518  Washington  Boul,. 

1901. 


COPYRIGHT,    1883,    BY 

FOWLER    &    WELLS 


f 


TO     ALL 
WHO    LOVE    GOOD    HEALTH 

AS  WELL   AS 

GOOD    EATING, 
tphis  Volume 

IS  RESPECTFULLY  DEDICATED. 


PREFACE 


The  object  of  this  work  is  to  enable  health-seekers  to 
furnish  their  tables  with  food  that  is  wholesome,  and  at  the 
same  time  palatable.  The  writer  claims  that  the  food  prod- 
ucts of  the  earth,  properly  grown  and  prepared,  should  be 
not  only  healthful,  but  to  the  unperverted  palate,  relishable, 
in  the  highest  degree. 

Foods,  as  ordinarily  cooked,  are  robbed  of  their  own 
luscious  flavors  and  rich  juices  by  all  manner  of  wasteful  or 
injudicious  processes ;  by  soaking,  by  parboiling,  by  evap- 
oration, by  under-cooking,  and  by  burning ;  after  which 
one  tries  in  vain  to  compensate  for  these  defects,  by  adding 
butter,  pepper,  sugar,  salt,  and  other  seasonings,  ad  infini- 
tum. Nature  is  prodigal  of  her  fine  flavors,  furnishing 
them  in  infinite  variety  and  choice  abundance  ;  and  all  we 
have  to  do  is  to  produce  them  from  the  soil  by  proper  cult- 
ure, and  save  them  with  frugal  care.  How  to  grow  the 
best  grains,  fruits  and  vegetables,  belongs  not  to  the  art  of 
cookery,  but  to  the  department  of  agriculture  and  horti- 
culture. How  to  prepare  these  products  for  the  table,  get- 
ting all  the  good  there  is  in  them,  and  adding  nothing 
harmful  thereto,  is  the  thing  sought  after  in  the  following 
pages. 

It  has  often  been  urged  against  cook-books,  that  the  very 
items  one  needs  most  to  know,  are  not  in  them  ;  the  quan- 
tities, proportions,  etc.,  together  with  the  smaller  details, 
being  usually  left  out.     In  the  present  volume  the  author 

(vii) 


Vlll  PREFACE. 

has  endeavored,  even  at  the  expense  of  brevity,  to  avoid 
falling  into  a  like  error.  The  recipes  claim  to  be  sufficiently 
explicit,  and  as  far  as  is  possible,  accurate.  Some  of  them 
are  wholly  original,  others  are  not ;  many  valuable  hints 
have  been  derived  from  books  already  published  on  hygienic 
cooking.  In  preparing  Part  II.  the  following  works  have 
been  consulted  freely,  and  in  some  instances  quoted  verba- 
tim; viz.:  The  Hygeian  Home  Cook-Book,  by  the  late  It. 
T.  Trail,  M.D.;  the  Health  Reformer's  Cook-Book,  Battle 
Creek,  Mich.;  and  How  to  Prepare  Food,  by  Mrs.  Lucretia 
E.  Jackson,  Dansville,  N.  Y. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  are  beginning  to  try  hygienic 
cookery,  but  whose  families  and  friends  are  not  thoroughly 
converted  to  the  system,  Part  III.  has  been  written,  with 
directions  for  preparing  foods,  not  strictly  in  the  hygienic 
way,  but  in  such  a  manner  as  to  render  them  relatively 
plain  and  healthful.  An  urgent  call  having  been  made  for 
a  work  of  this  kind,  the  suggestion  has  been  acted  upon  to 
bind  it  and  the  hygienic  cook-book  in  the  same  volume. 

In  the  preparation  of  Part  HE.  the  author  is  greatly  in- 
debted to  several  writers,  among  whom  are  Catharine 
Beecher,  Marion  Harland,  Emma  P.  Ewing,  and  the  author 
or  compiler  of  the  Buckeye  Cookery. 

S.  W.  Dodds. 

St.  Louis,  Mo.,  Sept.  21,  1888. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SIXTH  EDITION. 


In  the  several  editions  of  Health  in  the  Household 
that  have  been  published,  very  few  alterations  were  made 
in  the  text,  except  that  in  the  last  one  issued  the  recipes 
for  soups  were  so  changed  that  these  could  be  made  with- 
out meat,  a  little  cream  taking  the  place  of  it. 

In  the  present  edition,  the  principal  change  is  in  the 
table  and  recipes  for  grains,  a  longer  time  being  allowed 
for  cooking  them ;  this  not  only  renders  them  more  di- 
gestible, but  improves  their  flavor. 

A  new  index  has  also  been  prepared,  which  is  more 
convenient  than  the  old  one. 

S.  W.  Dodds. 

St.  Louis,  Mo.,  Dec.  1,  1900. 


(ix) 


TABLE   OF   CONTENTS. 


PART   I. 

THE    REASON    WHY.  Page. 

Constituents  of  food,            .         .         ■         •                  •        •  " 

Tables  (from  Pavy), U 

Pood  and  physical  development, 1  ^ 

Wheat  and  other  cereals, .20 

Wheaten  vs.  white  flour,      .......  27 

The  fruits ■  .         .  SB 

The  vegetables, 38 

Meat  as  an  article  of  diet, 42 

Pork-eating, 48 

Milk, 53 

Butter  and  eggs, 55 

Sugar, 57 

Salt, .  61 

Pepper  and  other  condiments,          ......  71 

Drinking  at  meals, 72 

Tea,  coffee,  etc., 75 

Food,  intellect  and  morals, 79 

"      combinations,  etc., 84 

Two  meals  or  three, 92 

Dietetic  rules, 93 

Hints  on  cooking, 95 

PART  II. 

THE    HYGIENIC    DIETARY. 

Unleavened  bread, 101 

Leavened  and  other  bread, 119 

Plain  fruit  cakes, 142 


(xi) 


Xll  CONTENTS. 

Steamed  grains,       - .145 

Mushes,         . 151 

Pastries, 154 

Vegetables, iq§ 

Soups,      .                 197 

Fruits  and  fruit  juices,          .         .         ,         .         .         ,         .  197 

Drinks  for  the  sick, 224 

Foods     "     "      " 229 

"          "   infants, 232 

Preserving  fruits  and  vegetables, 234 

Canning  fruits,  etc., JJ38 

Miscellany, 250 

PART  III. 

THE    COMPROMISE. 

Steamed  bread,             260 

Corn  cake,  muffins,  etc., 265 

Griddle-cakes .  271 

Cake-making             275 

Pies,  etc., 288 

The  grains, 301 

Mushes 302 

Puddings, 302 

"         selection  of, 305 

"         other, 337 

Plain  desserts, 353 

Pudding  sauces,  creams,  etc., 360 

Custards,  blanc-manges,  etc., 368 

Moulded  farinacea, 382 

Other  dishes, 386 

Jellies,  jams  and  syrups, 390 

Ripe  fruits  for  desserts, 398 

Vegetables, .         .         .        .  407 

Soups, 436 

Meats,  etc., .449 

Beef,  mutton  and  lamb, 453 

The  "  porker," .  470 


CONTENTS.  Xiii 

Venison, 470 

Poultry,    ...                 4753 

Wild  birds  and  other  game, 488 

Fish, 497 

How  about  oysters  ? 505 

Meat  pies,  etc., 506 

"     stews,  etc., 518 

Hashes  and  toasts,            .        . 530 

Eggs, .540 

Practical  hints, 544 

Addendum,           .;'.:....         .  580 


INTRODUCTORY, 


The  question  is  often  asked,  "What  is  this  hygienic 
diet  ? "  and  it  would  be  well  for  its  advocates,  if  a  correct 
answer  were  always  given.  This  food  differs  so  materially 
from  that  in  common  use,  that  persons  who  have  simply 
heard  of  it,  are  apt  to  form  erroneous  ideas  in  regard  to  it. 
For  example,  if  you  state  that  a  hygienic  breakfast-table 
furnishes  neither  coffee  nor  tea,  no  beefsteak,  butter,  nor 
hot  biscuits,  you  are  met  with  the  question,  "  What  do  they 
eat  ?  "  And  before  you  can  begin  to  reply,  the  conclusion 
is  reached  that  the  table  must  be  wof ully  bare,  and  the  food 
on  it  lacking  in  wholesome  variety  and  good  flavor  (since 
there  are  no  seasonings),  and  also  in  nutritive  qualities.  In 
other  words,  that  it  is  a  sort  of  starvation  diet,  which  sensi- 
ble people  would  at  once  reject. 

Now,  nothing  could  be  farther  from  the  truth  than  such 
an  inference  ;  and  patients  at  our  table  have  often  remarked 
that  if  people  only  understood  the  real  character  of  the 
hygienic  diet,  they  would  think  more  favorably  of  it.  In 
the  first  place,  the  hygienic  table  admits  of  as  great  a  variety 
as  any  other  ;  and  once  the  palate  adapts  itself  to  the  change 
— which  requires  but  a  short  time — the  food  is  quite  as 
keenly  relished  as  that  prepared  in  the  ordinary  way.  In 
the  next  place,  one  does  not  tire  of  it ;  even  in  warm  spring 
mornings,  when  other  people  feel  the  need  of  a  tonic  to  give 
them  an  appetite,  the  sound  of  the  breakfast-bell  in  hygienic 
households  is  always  welcome.  The  presence  of  natural 
hunger  makes  the  food  taste  good,  while  at  the  same  time  it 
is  the  best  possible  aid  to  digestion.     The  fresh  ripe  fruits, 


2  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD. 

the  crisp  little  rolls,  twenty  minutes  from  the  oven,  the  well- 
cooked  oatmeal,  and  the  luscious  stewed  fruits — to  say 
nothing  of  good  baked  potatoes,  and  other  side  dishes  that 
find  their  way  to  the  table — all  are  enjoyed  with  a  zest  that 
rarely  belongs  to  steak,  biscuit  and  coffee. 

But  a  more  important  point  to  the  physiologist  is,  that 
the  food  eaten  is  far  more  healthful  and  nutritious  than  the 
aforesaid  articles  ;  from  the  simple  fact  that  it  contains  a 
much  larger  per  cent,  of  those  substances  that  are  necessary 
to  form  bone,  teeth,  muscles,  tendons,  and  the  other  tissues 
of  the  body.  This  is  why  one  can  work  longer  and  with 
less  fatigue  on  hygienic  food  than  on  any  other  ;  it  nourishes 
better.  Were  proof  needed  on  this  point,  the  tables  in  Part 
I.,  giving  the  constituents  of  food,  ought  to  furnish  it. 

Still  another  virtue  belonging  to  this  diet  is,  that  it  con- 
tains no  stimulating  or  abnormal  substances,  to  tax  the  vital 
powers  in  getting  rid  of  them  ;  no  salt,  pepper,  spices,  or 
other  irritating  condiment ;  everything  is  usable,  in  one  way 
or  another.  Neither  is  there  an  excess  of  oily  or  saccharine 
matter,  to  clog  the  digestive  or  the  excretory  organs.  But, 
to  get  at  once  to  the  root  of  the  matter,  we  will  take  up  the 
a,  b,  c,  of  the  hygienic  dietary  ;  resting  assured  that  if  our 
premises  are  correct,  the  conclusions  will  take  care  of  them- 
selves. 

All  persons  who  are  thorough  hygienists,  according  to  the 
teachings  of  the  late  R  T.  Trail,  M.D.,  believe  that  inorganic 
substances  are  incapable  of  nourishing  or  building  up  the 
vital  structures  of  our  bodies.  To  begin  with  first  princi- 
ples, we  hold  that  vegetable  organisms  are  fed  by  inorganic 
substances,  and  by  these  alone  ;  that  animal  organisms  are 
fed  by  organic  substances^,  and  by  these  only.  We  also 
maintain  that,  other  things  being  equal,  the  products  of  the 
vegetable  kingdom  are  better  suited  to  man's  needs  than 
are  those  of  the  animal  kingdom  ;  and  that  out  of  the 
former,  those  products  are  best  suited  for  foods  which  most 


INTRODUCTORY.  6 

nearly  supply  the  waste  of  the  various  tissues.  There  are, 
no  doubt,  many  varieties  in  the  vegetable  kingdom  which 
can  be  and  sometimes  are  used  for  foods,  but  which  rank 
low  in  nutritive  value,  and  are  otherwise  inferior  in  quality  ; 
these,  if  eaten,  are  recommended  only  as  occasional  dishes. 

If  we  follow  scientific  analysis,  we  must  place  first  in  the 
rank  of  nutritious  foods,  the  various  preparations  of  wheat ; 
then  the  other  grains,  some  of  which  are  better  adapted  to 
our  wants  than  others.  Fruits,  as  a  class  of  foods,  are  ranked 
higher  than  vegetables  by  hygienists,  and  some  fruits  higher 
than  others  ;  while  among  the  vegetables  proper,  there  are 
certain  kinds  that  are  better  suited  for  human  food  than 
others. 

The  flesh  of  animals,  as  will  hereafter  be  shown,  does  not 
begin  to  compare  with  the  whole  grains — or  even  with  some 
vegetables — in  the  quantity  of  nutritive  matter  contained  ; 
so  that  if  used,  it  must  fall  below  the  latter  in  respect  to 
nutrition.  Besides,  it  carries  with  it  a  certain  amount  of 
substance  that  can  not  be  utilized  by  the  vital  organs  ; 
whence  it  follows  that  these  organs  must  do  extra  work  in 
expelling  this  substance  from  the  vital  domain.  All  animals, 
however  healthy,  are  every  moment  of  their  lives  throwing 
off  a  large  per  cent,  of  worn-out  or  effete  matter ;  many 
times  larger  than  that  which  is  expelled  from  the  surfaces 
of  fruits  or  vegetables.  This  matter  is  in  every  tissue,  and 
in  every  drop  of  blood  or  other  fluid  in  the  tissues ;  nor 
does  the  act  of  killing  the  animal  improve  the  condition  of 
things.  On  the  contrary,  the  moment  that  life  is  extinct 
decomposition  begins,  and  the  waste  is  much  more  rapid  ; 
hence  the  use  of  antiseptics,  as  salt,  soda,  saltpetre,  etc.,  to 
arrest  decay. 

Animal  foods  therefore  are  exceedingly  unstable,  not  to 

say  impure,  in  their  best  estate  ;  whence  their  character  as 

inflammatory  food.      All  animal  products,  as  butter,  eggs, 

cheese,  etc.,  partake  of  this  character,  in  a  greater  or  less 

2 


4  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD. 

degree.  Beef  and  mutton  are  perhaps  the  best  of  the  flesh 
foods.  Fish,  fowls,  oysters,  etc.,  belong  to  lower  orders 
of  animal  life,  some  of  which  are  infested  with  vermin  or 
animalculse,*  and  all  of  which  feed  upon  less  inviting  food 
substances  than  do  the  nobler  animals. 

A  further  objection  to  the  use  of  meat  is  found  in  the  fact 
that  many  animals  are  afflicted  with  acute  or  chronic  dis- 
eases, and  are  often  rushed  into  market  in  that  condition. 
This  is  particularly  true  of  swine,  and  often  indeed  of  cattle, 
Were  the  actual  statistics  given  in  all  their  loathsome  de- 
tails, of  scurvy  in  swine,  of  ulcerated  livers,  of  deaths  from 
trichinae,  of  beef  discolored  from  venous  blood,  and  often 
from  semi-putrefaction,  it  would  be  enough  to  pall  the 
keenest  appetite,  even  though  it  failed  to  convince  the  most 
perverted  judgment. 

In  the  following  pages  the  subject  will  again  be  adverted 
to,  and  reasons  given  why  hygienists  regard  meat,  the  best 
of  it,  as  second-rate  food  ;  and  salt,  its  usual  condiment — 
which  is  a  metallic,  inorganic  substance — as  no  food  at  all. 
Some  hints  will  also  be  given  as  to  the  relative  merits  of  the 
various  food  products,  both  in  regard  to  health,  and  also  to 
their  nutritive  value.  It  will  likewise  be  shown,  that  so  far 
as  the  quality  of  the  hygienic  diet  is  concerned,  the  resources 
of  nature,  as  well  as  of  art,  are  not  by  any  means  exhausted. 
Indeed,  the  hygienists  themselves  have  scarcely  more  than 
commenced  to  study  the  matter.  The  place  to  begin,  of 
course,  is  in  the  department  of  agriculture.  It  is  well  known 
that  grains,  fruits  and  vegetables,  are  capable  of  improve- 
ment by  culture,  to  an  almost  unlimited  extent ;  and  there 
is  little  if  any  doubt  that  nearly  all  fruits  fully  ripe,  and  in 
their  finest  development,  would  be  exceedingly  palatable  as 
nature  furnishes  them.  It  is  much  to  be  hoped  that  an 
enlightened  public  sentiment,  on  this  subject  as  on  others, 


*  The  liquor  of  oysters  is  said  to  be  filled  with  infusoria  or  animalcule. 


INTRODUCTORY.  5 

will  help  to  bring  about  a  higher  culture  of  all  these  prod- 
ucts, and  especially  of  fruits. 

Some  dietetic  reformers,  in  their  eagerness  to  gratify  a 
perverted  palate,  have  fallen  into  the  habit  of  mixing  various 
foods  together,  indiscriminately,  in  the  preparation  of  a 
single  dish.  Such  admixture,  if  confined  to  one  class  of 
products,  for  instance  the  grains,  would  not  be  amiss  ;  but 
the  plan  of  putting  together  in  the  same  dish,  fruits  and 
vegetables  (say  cabbage,  beans,  beets,  squashes,  etc.,  with 
raw  or  cooked  fruits),  is  a  practice  that  can  not  be  too 
strongly  condemned.  Sound  stomachs  might  be  able  to 
manage  these  conglomerations,  but  weak  or  diseased  ones 
would  certainly  be  the  worse  for  it ;  and  it  is  a  question 
whether  even  the  best  digestion,  under  such  treatment, 
would  not  finally  be  impaired. 

This  brings  us  to  the  subject  of  the  dietetic  classification 
of  foods.  It  also  suggests  a  reason  for  some  slight  depart- 
ure in  this  book  from  the  ordinary  grouping  of  food 
products.  For  example,  under  the  head  of  "  Vegetables," 
only  such  products  are  named  as  seem  to  be  dietetically 
allied  to  each  other  ;  no  attention  being  paid  to  scientific 
technicalities.  In  like  manner,  tomatoes  and  melons  are 
classed  with  vegetables,  because  they  are  intended  to  be 
eaten  with  them.  And  it  might  be  added,  that  meats,  if 
eaten,  are  thought  to  digest  better  taken  with  vegetables, 
rather  than  with  fruits.  There  is  no  doubt  that  very  oily  sub- 
stances eaten  with  fruits,  make  rather  a  bad  mixture  ;  and  it 
ought  to  be  thoroughly  well  known  that  the  large  amount 
of  sugar  ordinarily  cooked  in  the  latter,  renders  them  diffi- 
cult to  digest,  and  often  causes  pain  in  the  stomach,  or  cholera 
morbus,  particularly  if  they  are  eaten  with  vegetables.  The 
trouble  is  not  with  the  fruits,  but  with  the  sugar,  and  the 
bad  combinations  that  are  made. 

The  subject  of  food  combinations — whether  cabbage  and 
raw  apples  will  digest  well  together,  or  strawberries  and 


D  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD. 

cucumbers,  or  grapes  and  Lima  beans,  etc.,  etc. — is  a  topic 
that  in  the  main  has  been  quite  overlooked.  In  the  last  few 
years,  however,  some  careful  observations  have  been  made 
by  hygienists,  in  the  management  not  only  of  very  sensitive 
stomachs,  but  also  those  of  ordinary  strength  ;  and  the  con- 
clusion has  been  reached,  that  here  as  elsewhere,  there  are 
certain  general  principles  underlying  the  whole  subject, 
which,  if  properly  understood,  would  be  of  much  value. 
Certain  physicians,  among  them  the  writer  of  this  book, 
believe  that  (for  feeble  stomachs  at  least)  fruits  and  vege- 
tables do  best  when  taken  at  separate  meals ;  that  vege- 
tables, when  eaten,  should  be  taken  at  dinner ;  and  that 
disregard  of  these  rules  often  leads  to  indigestion.  It  is  a 
question,  then,  whether  with  care  in  these  respects,  there 
would  be  that  difficulty  which  some  persons  experience  in 
eating  fruits,  and  others  in  eating  vegetables. 

In  the  management  of  patients  with  even  a  moderate 
amount  of  vitality,  the  writer  has  found  no  difficulty  in 
enabling  them  to  eat  fruits  in  abundance,  and  without  the 
slightest  inconvenience;  and  to  a  certain  extent  the  same  is 
true  as  respects  the  use  of  vegetables.  A  very  good  rule  for 
general  observance,  is  to  make  the  breakfast  of  bread  and 
fruit,  and  perhaps  some  grain  preparation;  the  dinner  of 
bread,  vegetables,  etc. ;  and  the  supper  of  bread  and  fruit 
only,  or  bread  and  fruit  juice.  It  is  also  a  good  plan,  if  raw 
apples,  peaches,  or  grapes  are  eaten,  to  take  them  at  break- 
fast, and  by  all  means  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal.  Let  the 
fine  sub-acids  touch  the  bottom  of  the  stomach,  so  to  speak. 
If  melons  are  eaten,  they  should  be  taken  at  or  before  the 
dinner;  if  at  the  meal,  they  should  be  served  at  the  com- 
mencement of  it,  not  at  the  close.  These  rules  have  been 
found  to  work  well  with  persons  who  are  sick,  and  they  can 
hardly  work  ill  with  those  who  are  in  good  health.  Or,  as 
it  is  sometimes  said,  "What  will  make  a  sick  man  well, 
will  also  keep  him  well." 


INTRODUCTORY. 


The  question  is  frequently  asked,  whether  the  hygienic 
diet  is  to  be  recommended  from  an  economic  stand-point. 
So  far  as  the  table  itself  is  concerned,  the  one  way  of  living 
is  probably  about  as  expensive  as  the  other  ;  in  other  words, 
the  money  that  is  usually  spent  for  tea,  coffee,  sugar,  butter, 
meat,  condiments,  etc.,  is  laid  out  for  choice  grains,  ripe, 
dried  or  canned  fruits,  and  the  best  of  vegetables.  But  if 
there  is  a  saving  of  time  and  money  in  the  enjoyment  of 
uninterrupted  good  health,  then  indeed,  there  is  economy 
in  hygienic  living.  A  lady  who  has  tried  both  ways,  and 
who  was  formerly  a  patient  and  boarder  in  our  house,  gives 
her  testimony  as  follows  : 

"  My  husband  and  I  have  been  married  twelve  years ; 
and  it  is  only  since  leaving  your  house,  two  years  ago,  that 
we  have  ever  been  able  to  save  a  cent.  Doctors,  medicines, 
and  what  we  then  supposed  to  be  the  '  best  of  living,'  viz., 
meat  three  times  a  day,  and  beef-tea  between  meals  for 
strength  (?),  ate  up  the  small  salary.  Last  year  we  bought 
a  lovely  little  home,  and  on  a  salary  of  fifteen  hundred 
dollars,  we  saved  five  hundred  to  pay  on  the  place.  And 
the  diet — why,  we  never  lived  so  well ;  good  bread  of 
Akron  Graham  flour,  fresh  vegetables,  and  the  best  of 
fruits  and  grains.  We  kept  a  horse,  and  hired  a  man  to 
work  the  garden.  We  feel  that  we  have  only  just  begun  to 
live.  In  health  I  am  better  ;  more  like  my  real  self  ;  more 
sunshine,  contentment,  and  happiness — all  owing  to  a 
good,  pure  diet,  fresh  air  and  exercise." 

To  those  who  may  desire  to  understand  more  fully  the 
Keasons  why  hygienists  depart  somewhat  from  the  ordi- 
nary methods  of  preparing  foods,  the  chapters  in  Part  I. 
may  be  of  interest.  And  should  the  reader  find  in  these 
more  or  less  repetition  of  what  has  been  stated  elsewhere 
in  the  work,  the  simple  fact  that  it  has  all  been  written 
piecemeal  may  in  part  account  for  it.  The  items  have  been 
jotted  down  from  time  to  time,  as  the  writer  could  note 


8  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD. 

them  ;  and  in  the  end  there  was  very  little  chance  to  re- 
write, or  even  rearrange  the  matter  in  hand.  Another  six 
months  would  have  made  a  more  orderly  work,  but  it  would 
not  have  silenced  the  clamor  for  the  book  at  all  hazards. 

There !  now,  good  friends,  take  the  volume  just  as  you  find 
it ;  and  if  you  can  write  a  better,  the  author  of  this  will 
gladly  help  you  to  sell  it.  But  one  thing — do  not  decline 
the  present  one,  and  then  come  to  us  with  inquiries  of  this 
sort :  "  How  do  you  steam  these  choice  grains  ?  "  "  Tell  me 
how  you  make  your  cream  biscuits  ? "  "  What  are  your 
rules  for  preparing  those  fine  fruits?"  "How  do  you 
manage  to  cook  vegetables  so  nicely?"  e  What  ails  my 
little  Graham  rolls  that  they  never  look  like  yours  ? "  etc., 
etc.  Take  the  book,  follow  its  directions,  and  you  will  find 
out  all  about  it 


NOTICE. 


In  a  work  of  this  kind,  it  is  hardly  to  be  supposed  that  all 
the  dishes  described  have  had  the  personal  supervision  of 
the  author.  A  large  per  cent.,  however,  of  the  recipes  in 
Part  II.  belong  to  this  class,  and  since  they  can  readily  be 
vouched  for,  they  will,  as  a  matter  of  convenience,  be  desig- 
nated thus  :  =|=.  Not  that  the  ones  so  indicated  are  all  of 
the  same  value  ;  on  the  contrary,  some  dishes  will  be  in 
much  greater  demand  than  others.  For  example,  the  hard 
Graham  rolls  are — or  ought  to  be — on  the  table  daily  ; 
cream  biscuits  come  only  once  or  twice  a  week,  and  currant 
scone  not  much  oftener  ;  while  strawberry  shortcake  makes 
its  appearance  only  a  few  times  in  the  whole  year. 

In  Part  HI.  there  are  many  recipes  that  the  writer  has 
not  been  able  to  test,  even  indirectly  ;  a  large  number,  how- 
ever, have  been  put  into  experienced  hands,  and  (from  the 
compromise  stand-point)  have  been  heard  from  favorably. 
These  recipes  will  be  known  to  the  reader  by  the  follow- 
ing sign  :  4(=. 

(9) 


PART    I 


THE  REASON  WHY. 

CONSTITUENTS   OF    FOOD. 

The  following  tables,  giving  the  composition  of  the  various 
grains,  together  with  that  of  beans,  peas,  lentils,  potatoes, 
beef,  mutton,  eggs,  milk,  and  cream,  are  taken  from  Pavy, 
that  well-known  authority  on  Food  and  Dietetics. 


TABLES. 
Varieties  of  Wheat  in  the  dry*  state. — (Payen.) 


Hard 
wheat. 
{Venezu- 
ela.) 

Hard 

wheat. 
{Africa.) 

Hard 
wheat. 
{Tagan- 
rog.) 

Semi- 
hard 
wheat. 
{Brie.) 

White  or 

soft 

wheat. 

{Tuzeile.') 

Nitrogenous  matter  . . . 

Starch 

Dextrin,  etc 

22.75 

58.62 

9-50 

3-50 

2.61 
3.02 

I9.5O 
65.07 
7.60 
3.OO 
2.12 
2.71 

20.00 
63.80 
8.00 
3.IO 
2.25 
2.85 

15-25 
70.05 
7.00 
3.0O 
I.05 
2-75 

12.65 

76.51 
6.05 
2.8o 

Cellulose 

Fattv  matter 

1.87 
2.12 

Mineral  matter 

IOO. 

IOO. 

IOO. 

IOO. 

IOO. 

*  In  an  ordinary  state,  gTain  contains  from  t  1  to  18  per  cent,  of  water. 

(ID 


12 


HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD. 


[PART  L 


Varieties  of  grain  in  the  dry  state. — (Payen.) 


Rye. 

Barley. 

Oats. 

Maize. 

Rice. 

Nitrogenous  matter. . . 
Starch 

12.50 

64.65 

14.90 

3.IO 

2.25 

2.6o 

12.96 
66.43 
IO.OO 

4-75 
2.76 
3.IO 

14-39 
60.59 

9-25 
7.06 
5.5o 
3.25 

I2.KO 

67.55 
4.OO 

5.90 

8.80 

1.25 

7.55 

88.65 

I. OO 

Dextrin,  etc 

Cellulose 

I. IO 

Fatty  matter 

O.80 

Mineral  matter 

O.9O 

IOO. 

IOO. 

IOO. 

IOO. 

IOO. 

Composition  of  Buckwheat. — (Pa YEN.) 

Nitrogenous  matter 13. 10 

Starch,  etc 64.90 

Fatty  matter 3.00 

Cellulose  3.50 

Mineral  matter 2. 50 

Wat«./ 13.00 


100. 


Composition  of  Beans. — (Payen.) 


Horse 
Bean. 

Nitrogenous  matter 30.8 

Starch,  etc 48-3 

Cellulose 3.0 

Fatty  matter 1.9 

Saline  matter 3.5 

Water 12.5 

100. 


Broad  or  Windsor 
bean,  dried  in  the 
green  state,  and 
decorticated. 

29.05 

55.85 
I.05 
2.00 

3-65 
8.4O 

IOO. 


French  or  Kidney  Bean.—  (Payen.) 

Nitrogenous  matter 25. 5 

Starch,  etc 55.7 

Cellulose 2.9 

Fatty  matter 2.8 

Mineral  matter 3.2 

Water 9.9 


PART  I.]  CONSTITUENTS    OP   FOOD.  13 


Dried  Peas. — (Payen.) 

Nitrogenous  matter 23.8 

Starch,  etc gg\ 

Cellulose «"c 

Fatty  matter 2  1 

Mineral  matter    2.1 

Water 3'-, 


Lentils. — (Payen.) 

Nitrogenous  matter .  25.2 

Starch,  etc 56.0 

Cellulose 2.4 

Fatty  matter , 2.6 

Mineral  matter 2.3 

Water n.g 

100. 
Potato.— (Payen.) 

Nitrogenous  matter 2.50 

Starch 20.00 

Cellulose 1.04 

Sugar  and  gummy  matter 1.09 

Fatty  matter o.  11 

Pectates,  citrates,  phosphates,  and  silicates  of  \  fi 

lime,  magnesia,  potash,  and  soda \ 

Water 74.00 

100. 
Sweet  Potato. — (Payen.) 

Nitrogenous  matter i.5° 

Starch 16.05 

Sugar 10.20 

Cellulose 0.45 

Fatty  matter 0.30 

Other  organic  matter i- 10 

Mineral  salts 2.60 

Water 67.50 


Lean  Beef.—  (Letheby.) 

Nitrogenous  matter •  -  *9-3 

Fat 3.6 

Saline  matter 5-  * 

Water 72.0 


14  HEALTH    IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  L 


Lean  Mutton. — (Letheby.) 

Nitrogenous  matter 18.3 

Fat 4-9 

Saline  matter . 4.8 

Water 72.0 

100. 
White  Fish* 

Nitrogenous  matter 18. 1 

Fat 2.9 

Saline  matter 1.0 

Water -   ...  78.0 

100. 
Eggs. — Entire  contents. \ 

Nitrogenous  matter 14.0    ,, 

Fatty  matter 10.5 

Saline      "     1.5 

Water 74-o 

100. 

Egg— White  of. 

Nitrogenous  matter 20.4 

Fatty  matter 

Saline      '-'     1.6 

Water 78.0 

100. 
Egg— Yolk  of. 

Nitrogenous  matter 16.0 

Fatty  matter 30. 7 

Saline      " 1.3 

Water 52.0 

100. 

Milk  {Cow's). — (Letheby.) 

Nitrogenous  matter 4.1 

Fatty  matter 3.9 

Lactin 5.2 

Saline  matter 0.8 

Water 86.0 

100. 

*  From  Pavy's  "  Food  and  Dietetics,"  p.  171.  t  lb.,  p.  182. 


PART  I.]  FOOD   AND    PHYSICAL    DEVELOPMENT.  15 

Cream.— (Letheby). 

Nitrogenous  matter 2.7 

Fatty  matter 26.7 

Lactin 2.8 

Saline  matter 1.8 

Water 66.0 

100 

Food  and  Physical  Development. 

The  food  question  is  one  of  the  most  important,  not  to 
say  the  most  difficult,  that  the  physiologist  has  to  handle  ; 
and  with  all  the  experience  of  bygone  ages,  we  have  not  as 
yet  been  able  to  fully  unravel  the  mysteries  of  this  many- 
sided  problem.  What  products  to  select  and  the  best 
methods  of  growing  them,  how  to  prepare  the  food  and 
how  often  to  partake  of  it,  what  quantity  is  necessary  to 
supply  the  waste  of  the  tissues,  what  variety  is  needed,  and 
what  combinations  produce  the  best  digestion — all  these, 
and  more,  remain  to  be  studied  in  the  light  of  known  facts 
and  of  physiological  science. 

As  regards  the  nature  or  quality  of  foods,  it  must  be  con- 
ceded that  that  food  is  best  which  most  nearly  supplies  the 
natural  waste  of  the  tissues.  And  those  articles  which  con- 
tain the  largest  amount  of  the  materials  necessary  to  build 
up  the  body,  these  being  in  the  required  proportions, 
would  rank  higher  in  value  than  other  articles  which  are 
poor  in  this  respect.  Nature  has  given  us  a  bountiful 
supply  of  food  products,  some  rich  in  quantity  and  variety 
of  nutritive  elements,  and  some  containing  an  abundance  of 
certain  food  principles,  with  rather  a  meager  supply  of 
others  ;  while  there  are  many  that  yield  only  a  limited 
amount  of  nutrient  matter.  Thus,  the  lavish  profusion  that 
is  furnished  to  our  hand  gives  room  for  the  exercise  of 
judgment  in  selecting  foods,  as  well  as  skill  in  preparing 
them. 

The  results  of  chemical  analysis,  as   given  by  Liebig, 


16  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

Boussingault,  Payen  and  others,  place  the  grains  at  the 
head  of  all  nutritive  substances,  as  will  be  seen  by  the 
tables  at  the  beginning  of  this  chapter.  And  while  it  does 
not  follow  that  we  must,  as  a  rule,  use  the  more  nutritious 
articles  of  diet  to  the  exclusion  of  the  others,  it  would  seem 
to  be  in  accordance  with  reason  that  the  former  should 
occupy  a  more  prominent  place  in  the  food  list  than  the 
latter.  For  example,  wheat,  which  contains  85  per  cent,  of 
solid  matter,  would  be  better  suited  to  sustain  life  than 
turnips,  that  have  only  11  per  cent.  ;  and  better  also  than 
meat,  that  has  but  36  per  cent.  In  so  far,  therefore,  as 
chemical  analysis  can  give  us  any  light,  the  grains  rank 
highest  as  foods. 

But  it  is  sometimes  said  that  the  relative  value  of  the 
different  food  products  can  be  better  determined  by  experi- 
ence than  by  chemical  analysis  ;  and  as  there  is  not  space 
in  this  short  chapter  to  investigate  the  latter,  let  us  give  a 
passing  thought  to  the  former.  Experience,  to  be  of  value, 
must  be  derived  from  the  observation  of  a  sufficient  number 
of  individuals  to  give  us  something  like  a  rule,  deduced 
from  facts  which  these  individuals  can  furnish.  "What, 
then,  are  the  facts  ?  Looking  over  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
savage  and  civilized,  we  find  great  disparity  among  them 
as  to  the  physical  development  of  their  inhabitants  ;  some 
are  well  proportioned,  with  good  bones  and  muscles,  sound 
teeth,  robust  bodies,  and  all  the  other  evidences  of  fine 
growth  and  excellent  general  health.  Others  are  small  in 
stature,  ill-proportioned,  wanting  in  muscular  development, 
and  otherwise  inferior  in  physique  ;  and  while  it  must  not 
be  taken  for  granted  that  food  alone  is  responsible  for 
these  several  results,  still  it  can  not  be  denied  that  it  is  an 
important  factor  in  the  case.  Comparing  the  dietetic 
habits  of  the  people  of  these  nations,  there  has  been  found 
to  exist  a  very  striking  correspondence  between  the  quality 
of  the  food  thev  eat,  and  the  size,  strength  and  symmetry 


PART  I.  ]        FOOD  AND  PHYSICAL  DEVELOPMENT.  17 

of  their  bodies.  It  lias  also  been  noted  by  travelers  that  in 
those  countries,  in  Europe  and  elsewhere,  in  which  the 
people  were  remarkable  for  long  life,  strength  of  body  and 
fine  proportions,  combined  with  rare  personal  beauty  and 
good  complexions,  their  dietetic  habits  have  been  relatively 
simple,  and  the  food  itself  restricted  for  the  most  part  to 
the  products  of  the  soil. 

The  peasantry  of  Europe  furnish  examples  of  whole 
nations  of  people  living  almost  exclusively  on  a  grain  and 
vegetable  diet,  with  perhaps  a  moderate  supply  of  milk. 
They  use  coarse  bread,  and  an  abundance  of  cereals,  va- 
riously prepared.  They  eat  very  little  meat,  and  their  food 
as  a  whole,  contains  few  condiments.  It  is  likewise  worthy 
of  remark,  that  among  these  simple  rural  people,  who  can 
not  afford  either  the  rich  dietary  or  the  sparkling  wines 
and  other  stimulating  drinks  used  by  the  wealthy,  there  is 
a  smoothness  of  skin  and  purity  of  complexion  that  is  quite 
the  exception  among  the  upper  classes.  This  is  particularly 
noticeable  in  England  and  Scotland  ;  and  it  is  said  to  be 
the  same  in  Germany.  There  is  a  certain  wholesome  come- 
liness among  the  peasant  lads  and  lasses  that  does  not  quite 
belong  either  to  the  people  of  rank  (who,  having  every  facility 
for  mental  and  physical  culture,  ought  to  look  well),  or  to  the 
denizens  of  cities,  whose  habits  of  eating  and  living  are 
less  simple  than  theirs.  According  to  Felix  L.  Oswald, 
M.D.,  "  The  strongest  men  of  the  three  manliest  races  of 
the  present  world  are  non-carnivorous  :  the  Turanian  mount- 
aineers of  Daghestan  and  Lesghia,  the  Mandingo  tribes  of 
Senegambia,  and  the  Schleswig-Holstein  Bauern,  who  fur- 
nish the  heaviest  cuirassiers  for  the  Prussian  army,  and  the 
ablest  seamen  for  the  Hamburg  navy." 

The  following  item  from  the  San  Francisco  Chronicle,  is 
another  bit  of  evidence  showing  that  the  best  of  muscle 
can  be  made  from  a  diet  that  is  simple  and  sparing,  and 
that  contains  very  little  animal  food  : 


18  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

"  Yokohama,  July  1,  1882. — Japan  furnishes  an  example 
that  tells  largely  in  favor  of  a  vegetarian  diet.  That  the 
Japanese  are  a  people  of  muscle  and  great  physical  endur- 
ance is  apparent  on  every  hand.  The  specimens  of  muscu- 
lar development  shown  in  the  build  and  structure  of  the 
working  classes,  are  evidences  of  great  strength  and  hardi- 
ness. The  diet  of  these  men  is  entirely  of  vegetables  and 
fish,  and  they  are  very  economical  feeders  at  that.  The 
quantity  of  food  they  require,  or  at  least  the  quantity  they 
eat,  is  astonishingly  small  when  compared  with  the  food  de- 
voured by  the  meat-eaters  from  the  Western  world.  The 
amount  of  manual  labor  they  perforin  is  simply  prodigious. 
The  coolie,  who  takes  the  place  of,  and  who  does  the  work 
for  which  oxen  and  horses  are  utilized  elsewhere,  is  about 
as  strong,  and  can  accomplish  about  as  much  heavy  work  as 
the  animals  themselves.  They  are  possessed  of  immense 
power  of  limb,  being  able  to  pull  loads  that  would  be  con- 
sidered as  much  as  any  other  draft  animal  could  draw. 
It  is  wonderful  to  see  them  walking  away  with  the  heavy 
loads  they  easily  move  ;  and  as  carriers  of  burdens  upon 
the  shoulder  they  are  capable  of  startling  achievements. 
Seemingly  their  frames  are  as  tough  as  steel,  not  suscepti- 
ble of  cold  or  intense  heat — going  thinly  clad  in  freezing 
weather,  and  not  shrinking  from  the  sun  in  its  most  oppres- 
sive season." 

There  are  also  abundant  statistics,  and  some  of  them 
from  excellent  authorities,  showing  that  among  the  savage 
tribes  there  exist  the  most  startling  contrasts  in  respect  tc 
longevity,  beauty  of  form,  and  strength  of  muscle.  And 
the  travelers  who  have  made  note  of  these  facts,  and  who 
in  all  probability  cared  nothing  whatever  for  dietetic  rules  or 
theories,  tell  us  that  the  meanest  and  most  hideous  forms 
of  human  life  (as  the  Calmucks)  were  found  among  those 
people  who  subsst  almost  exclusively  upon  animal  food, 
and  this  often  of  a  very  low  order.     On  the  other  hand, 


Part  l]  food  and  physical  development.  19 

those  races  that  are  celebrated  for  their  beauty  of  form  and 
complexion  (as  the  Circassians),  are  an  agricultural  people, 
drawing  their  subsistence  chiefly  from  the  soil. 

But  leaving  the  Europeans  and  Asiatics  to  work  out  their 
own  destinies,  may  we  not  venture  to  inquire  whether  cer- 
tain physiological  defects  among  our  own  people,  defects  so 
pronounced  as  already  to  be  considered  national,  may  not 
in  some  degree  be  traceable  to  their  dietetic  habits?  Is 
there  not  some  error,  which  if  corrected,  would  lead  to 
more  beneficent  results?  There  must  be  a  reason  why 
sound  teeth  are  the  exception  ;  why  natural  dentine  gives 
place  to  porcelain  ;  why  the  teeth  that  remain  are  ill-shapen, 
loose  in  their  sockets,  and  covered  with  scurvy.  There 
must  be  a  reason  why  heads  are  bald  so  early  ;  why  heavy 
tresses  of  beautiful  hair,  even  on  youthful  brows,  are  so 
rare  ;  why  the  few  thin,  straggling  locks  that  remain,  are 
harsh  and  faded,  and  the  scalp  covered  with  a  scurvy  dan- 
druff. There  must  be  a  reason  why  firmly  knit  muscles, 
giving  to  the  human  figure  a  beauty  and  loveliness  of  form 
almost  divine,  have  left  in  their  stead,  loose,  flabby  tissues, 
with  very  little  muscular  fiber  in  them.  There  must  be  a 
reason  why  the  rose  tints  fade  so  early  from  the  cheeks  of 
the  young  ;  why  healthful  boys  and  girls  are  converted  into 
little,  spindling,  wizen-faced  creatures,  looking  more  like  old 
men  and  women  of  diminutive  stature,  than  like  thriving, 
growing  children.  There  must  be  a  reason  why  even  in  in- 
fancy the  spine  so  often  refuses  to  hold  the  body  erect,  and 
disease  and  deformity  ensue.  There  is  a  reason,  and  it  is 
our  duty  to  find  it. 

If  the  food  we  eat  does  not  contain  the  elements  out  of 
which  dentine  is  made,  how  can  we  expect  to  have  good 
teeth  ?  If  it  is  defective  in  nutritive  quality,  having  a  lack 
of  those  materials  which  make  fibrin,  by  what  process  can 
we  hope  to  clothe  the  bones  with  muscles  ?  If  it  has  a 
meager  supply  of  the  "  salts  "  which  enter  into  the  forma- 
3 


20  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

tion  of  the  bones,  why  should  not  the  little  children  (and 
those  of  larger  stature)  be  limp  and  rickety  ?  If  the  nu- 
tritive substances  that  are  found  in  hair  are  wanting,  is  it 
not  reasonable  that  the  middle-aged,  and  even  our  young 
people,  should  have  bald  heads  ?  If  our  tables  do  not  sup- 
ply the  elements  which  go  to  make  up  our  bodies,  and 
therefore  to  form  the  blood  corpuscles  out  of  which  the 
various  tissues  are  made,  then  indeed  we  must  be  content 
to  have  faded  cheeks,  flabby  muscles,  sunken  eyes,  weak 
backs,  toothless  gams,  and  bare  scalps.  Nor  is  it  at  all 
strange  that  what  we  have  left  is  little  more  than  a  "  bundle 
of  nerves,"  since  we  have  lavishly  parted  with  all  besides. 
We  deserve  our  fate,  if  we  do  not  mend  our  ways. 

Wheat  and   other   Cereals. 

Old  mother  earth  has  given  to  man  the  very  thing  he 
needs,  to  keep  him  in  perfect  health.  First  among  these 
gifts  are  the  golden  grains ;  they  contain  in  great  abun- 
dance and  well-suited  proportions,  those  substances  in  organic 
combination  that  are  required  to  build  up  the  body,  as  its 
tissues  are  spent  from  day  to  day. 

Nature  furnishes  us  in  the  organic  kingdom,  not  "  proxi- 
mate principles "  as  such ;  not  fibrin,  albumen,  or  casein  ; 
not  starch,  sugar,  or  fat ;  not  chlorides,  carbonates,  or  phos- 
phates ;  these  latter,  if  obtained  from  the  food  products, 
come  only  through  destructive  analysis.  Out  of  her  own 
ample  storehouse  she  gives  us  those  wonderful  products  of 
the  soil  suited  for  human  food.  Nor  must  we  fail  to  note 
the  fact,  that  it  is  these,  untouched  by  the  hand  of  the 
chemist,  that  are  received  and  appropriated  by  animal 
organisms.  Trees  may  grow  and  thrive  upon  inorganic 
foods — in  the  aqueous  or  gaseous  form — but  animals  never. 
The  human  animal,  in  common  with  the  others,  would  very 
soon  starve  to  death  on  these  substances.  Neither  will  the 
proximate  principles  of  food,  support  animal  life  ;  not  even 


PART  I.]  WHEAT  AND  OTHER  CEREALS.  21 

if  we  select  those  that  are  strictly  of  organic  origin,  as 
starch,  sugar,  oil,  fibrin,  albumen,  etc.  The  vital  instincts 
reject  those  j)roducts  that  do  not  come  directly  from 
Nature's  own  laboratory. 

The  tables  from  Payen  at  the  head  of  these  chapters,  will 
give  a  fair  idea  of  the  relative  nutritive  values  of  the  dif- 
ferent grains.  It  will  be  seen  that  the  saccharine  element  is 
most  abundant  in  rye,  the  fatty  in  maize  and  oats,  and  the 
starchy  in  rice  ;  we  observe,  moreover,  that  oats  are  rich  in 
mineral  or  saline  matter  (good  for  teeth  and  bones),  and 
also  in  nitrogenous  substances. 

The  human  body  is  known  to  be  composed  of  some  fifteen 
ultimate  elements  (the  older  authorities  give  thirteen),  as 
shown  by  chemical  analysis,  all  of  which  are  supplied  in 
common  wheat.  It  is  not  strange,  therefore,  that  this  grain 
is  a  staple  among  food  products  throughout  the  civilized 
world,  the  fact  being  founded  in  the  physiological  needs 
of  the  human  race.  But  it  is  strange,  yes,  marvelous,  that 
this  same  wheat,  which  a  beneficent  Creator  furnishes  to 
our  hand  for  the  renewing  of  our  bodies,  should  be  largely 
stripped  by  man  of  its  nutritive  materials  before  he  eats  it. 
There  is  more  than  a  grain  of  truth  in  the  saying,  that  "  the 
principal  article  of  human  food  in  America  is  a  robbed, 
depreciated  substance,  incapable  of  sustaining  human  life." 
That  "the  human  animal  in  America  is  drenched  with 
starch  "  (in  the  use  of  white  flour),  "  and  destroyed  by  it." 
That  "  the  ten  thousand  mills  in  America  which  are  to-day 
engaged  in  pulverizing  wheat,  and  sifting  from  it  its  gray 
matter,"  ought  to  be  classed  with  the  "  distilleries  of  the 
land,"  as  shorteners  of  human  life  ;  and  that  the  "  exter- 
mination of  the  one  is  not  more  to  be  desired,  than  the 
annihilation  of  the  other." 

What  stupidity  (shall  we  call  it  madness?)  that  in  the 
flour  of  commerce  we  should  take  away  from  the  wheat — 
in  a  large  degree,  certainly — no  less  than   twelve   of  the 


22  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

fifteen  elements  that  belong  to  it,  and  without  which  the 
growth  of  the  human  body  can  not  be  maintained!  In 
other  words,  the  wheat,  with  its  fifteen  elements,  which  are 
nearly  or  quite  identical  with  those  of  the  human  body,  is 
reduced  for  the  most  part  to  a  white,  starchy  substance, 
containing  only  three  of  the  ultimate  elements,  carbon, 
oxygen  and  hydrogen.  The  rich  supplies  of  silica,  sodium, 
sulphur,  phosphorus,  calcium,  nitrogen,  and  other  elements 
that  are  found  in  the  bones,  teeth,  hair,  nails,  muscles,  and 
in  the  blood,  are  gone!  And  the  self -defrauded  people, 
instinctively  aware,  as  it  were,  that  they  are  perishing  for 
lack  of  those  life-giving  products,  are  now  attempting  to 
supplement  the  loss  in  a  way  that  is  none  the  less  ridiculous 
and  foolish.  Vainly  endeavoring  to  compensate  for  the 
things  wasted,  they  betake  themselves  to  the  swallowing  of 
certain  substances  which  are  little  else  than  proximate  ele- 
ments or  principles  derived  from  the  foods  proper. 

Why  this  roundabout  process  ?  Why  separate  these  vari- 
ous substances  from  the  grains,  doing  violence  to  their 
organic  structures,  and  then  eat  them  individually  rather 
than  take  them  in  organic  combination,  as  Nature  has  pro- 
vided them?  The  idea  is  entertained  by  some,  that  in 
selecting  and  combining  certsihiparts  of  the  grains,  a  food  can 
be  prepared  that  will  not  only  supply  some  special  need  in 
the  system,  but  that  it  will  afford  nourishment  to  a  particular 
organ  or  part  of  the  body.  Following  this  theory  there  are 
persons  who  delight  to  sup  on  cooked  gluten,  to  eat 
wheatena,  "  diabetic  bread,"  "  brain  food  wafers,"  or  any  of 
the  "  food  preparations,"  as  they  are  called,  rather  than  to 
take  the  food  itself.  Nor  is  it  at  all  uncommon  to  see  per- 
sons wet  up  wheat  bran,  coarse,  flaky  stuff,  hardly  fit  for 
horses,  and  swallow  it  as  a  "  medicine,"  and  then  sit  down 
at  meal-time,  and  eat  white  flour  bread  in  preference  to  that 
made  from  the  whole  wheat !  Any  way  but  the  right  way  ; 
particularly  if  it  be  fashionable,  or  in  seeming  accord  with 
the  old-time  custom  of  "  taking  something." 


PART  I.]  WHEAT  AND  OTHER  CEREA.LS.  23 

Coming  fairly  and  squarely  to  the  point,  the  truth  of  the 
whole  matter  is  simply  this  :  What  is  best  suited  to  the 
nourishing  or  building  up  of  the  body  as  a  whole,  is  also  best 
adapted  to  the  proper  growth  of  its  individual  members. 
The  late  E.  T.  Trail,  M.D.,  has  very  justly  remarked  that 
"  Those  who  would  prepare  healthful  food,  and  those  who 
desire  to  '  eat  to  live,'  should  ever  bear  in  mind  that  no  one 
of  the  alimentary  principles  is  capable  in  itself  of  properly 
nourishing  the  body.  Neither  of  them,  in  the  proper  sense, 
is  food,  but  merely  a  constituent  part  of  food.  And  almost 
ail  the  aliments  or  substances  used  for  food,  contain  very 
nearly,  and  some  of  them  quite  all  of  these  proximate  ele- 
ments. Hence  the  futility  of  all  the  multitudinous  experi- 
ments, in  feeding  human  beings  or  animals  on  a  constituent 
part  of  an  aliment,  instead  of  the  aliment  itself.  Such 
experiments  only  show  the  physiological  ignorance  of  the 
experimenters." 

Those  constituent  parts  of  food  which  are  known  to  phys- 
iologists as  proximate  principles  of  the  "  second  class  "  (oil, 
sugar,  starch),  are  purely  of  organic  origin.  And  the  same 
is  true  of  those  of  the  third  class,  as  fibrin,  albumen,  casein, 
etc.  These  two  classes  differ  widely,  both  in  their  nature 
and  origin,  from  those  inorganic  substances  which  are  des- 
ignated, proximate  principles  of  the  first  class.  The  latter 
— most  of  them  metallic — though  obtainable  by  destructive 
analysis  from  organic  products,  are  also  found  elsewhere, 
some  of  them  existing  largely  in  the  surface  of  the  earth. 

Now,  if  the  proximate  elements  of  the  second  and  third 
classes  can  be  shown  to  be  incapable  of  supporting  animal 
lif  e,  what  shall  we  say  to  those  of  the  first  class  ?  If  dogs 
starve  to  death  on  starch,  sugar,  oil,  fibrin,  etc.,  would  they 
thrive  well  on  chlorides,  carbonates  and  phosphates  ?  And 
yet  there  are  people  who  do  not  hesitate  to  recommend  even 
these.  They  imagine  that  if  magnesia,  sulphur,  soda,  etc., 
are  lacking  in   the  bones  and  other  tissues,  they  can  eat 


24  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  L 

magnesia,  soda,  sulphur,  etc.,  or  the  carbonates,  phosphates, 
etc.,  which  contain  them — quite  ignoring  the  fact  that  these 
substances  are  simply  earthy  or  inorganic  materials,  and  as 
such,  utterly  incapable  of  supporting  animal  life.  They 
seem  not  to  understand  that  the  only  possible  way  in  which 
human  (or  animal)  beings  can  make  these  substances  avail- 
able, is  to  take  them,  not  as  inorganic  matter,  but  fresh 
from  the  hand  of  Nature,  as  part  and  parcel  of  the  food 
products,  in  a  state  of  perfect  organization — before  the 
chemist  has  laid  his  finger  upon  them.  It  has  been  truth- 
fully said,  that  where  chemistry  begins,  organic  life  or 
structure  ends. 

If  lime  is  a  necessary  constituent  in  our  bones,  we  can 
easily  supply  the  system  with  the  needed  "  salts  "  by  eating 
wheat,  not  lime,  or  other  calcareous  substances.  If  sulphur 
is  required  in  the  hair,  we  shall  obtain  it  from  the  grains  ; 
not  by  taking  the  crude  article.  If  sodium  is  called  for  in 
the  formation  of  the  different  structures,  let  us  look  to  the 
wheat  and  other  cereals  for  that  ingredient ;  not  to  soda,  or 
chloride  of  sodium. 

Had  God  or  nature  intended  that  we  should  eat  inorganic 
substances,  or  even  made  it  possible  for  us  to  subsist  upon 
them,  what  need  would  there  be  to  till  the  earth  ?  If,  like 
trees,  we  can  live  upon  gases,  or  derive  nourishment  from 
phosphates,  etc.,  why  turn  the  furrow,  or  put  in  the  seed  ? 
These  materials  abound  in  the  crust  of  the  earth,  and  are  in 
no  sense  the  products  of  agriculture.  But  why  debate  this 
question  ?  It  has  been  shown  again  and  again,  that  so  far 
from  man's  being  able  to  subsist  upon  inorganic  matter, 
neither  he  nor  the  lower  animals  can  get  nourishment  out  of 
them  ;  they  can  only  live  upon  the  natural,  organic  products 
of  the  earth.  It  has  been  repeatedly  demonstrated,  that 
even  those  proximate  principles  which  are  strictly  of  organic 
origin,  as  oil,  sugar,  starch,  fibrin,  albumen,  casein,  etc.,  can 
not  sustain  animal  lif  e  ;  both  dogs  and  men  would  starve  to 


PART  I. J  WHEAT  AND  OTHER  CEREALS.  25 

death  on  any  one  of  them,  or  all  of  them  put  together.  For 
example,  wheat  alone,  with  water  (the  latter  as  a  carrier  of 
nutrient  material),  will  support  human  life  for  an  indefinite 
length  of  time.  But  if  we  separate  the  wheat  into  gluten, 
starch,  sugar,  etc.,  and  attempt  to  live  upon  these,  with  or 
without  the  water,  certain  death  will  in  a  few  weeks  or 
months  repay  us  for  our  folly. 

And  yet,  well  as  these  facts  are  known  among  physiolo- 
gists and  scientists,  people  still  persist  in  eating  white  flour 
bread,  which  is  mostly  starch,  actually  preferring  it  to  bread 
made  from  the  flour  of  the  whole  wheat !  Really,  is  it  not 
high  time  that  we  ceased  to  eat,  and  feed  to  our  children, 
an  article  of  food  that  dogs  can  not  live  upon  ? 

In  speaking  of  this  subject,  Dr.  Trail  remarks  :  "  AH  of 
these  proximate  constituents  vary  exceedingly  in  their 
ability  to  sustain  the  prolonged  nutrition  of  man  or  animals  ; 
but  neither  of  them  alone  can  supply  perfect  nutrition,  nor 
sustain  the  organism  for  a  great  length  of  time.  Their 
power  to  do  so  is  in  the  ratio  of  their  complexity.  Thus, 
gluten,  which  combines  in  itself  a  greater  number  of  ele- 
ments, or  in  other  words,  is  a  more  complex  substance  in 
its  chemical  composition  than  any  other  alimentary  prin- 
ciple, is  capable  of  sustaining  the  nutrition  of  animals 
longer  than  any  other." 

Dr.  Graham  is  even  more  explicit  on  this  important  sub- 
ject. He  says:  "Can  any  inorganic  compound  of  oxygen, 
hydrogen,  carbon  and  azote,  be  made  to  answer  as  a  substi- 
tute for  animal  or  vegetable  food  ?  Certainly  not !  And 
the  reason  is  evidently  not  because  any  particular  chemical 
character  or  property  is  wanting  in  such  a  compound,  but 
because  such  a  compound  has  not  the  constitutional  nature 
which  adapts  it  to  the  constitutional  nature  and  functional 
powers  of  the  living  animal  organs."  He  further  adds:  "A 
single  pound  of  good  wheat  contains  about  ten  ounces  of 
farina,  six  drachms  of  gluten,  and  two  drachms  of  sugar  ; 


26  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  I. 

and  a  robust  laboring  man  maybe  healthfully  sustained  on  one 
pound  of  good  wheat  per  day,  with  pure  water,  for  any  length 
of  time  he  chooses,  without  the  least  physiological  inconven- 
ience; but  let  him  attempt  to  live  on  ten  ounces  of  pure 
farina,  six  drachms  of  gluten,  and  two  drachms  of  sugar  per 
day,  with  pure  water,  either  taken  separately  or  mixed 
together,  and  he  will  soon  find  his  appetite  and  strength  and 
spirits  failing,  and  his  flesh  forsaking  him;  and  death  will 
terminate  his  experiment  in  less  than  a  year.  Can  chemistry 
tell  us  why  this  is  so  ?  Indeed  she  can  not !  But  physiology 
tells  us  with  promptitude  and  accuracy,  that  wheat,  in  its 
whole  substance,  is  constitutionally  adapted  to  the  anatomi- 
cal structure  and  physical  powers  of  the  alimentary  organs 
of  man;  but  that  farina  and  gluten  and  sugar,  in  their  con- 
centrated forms,  are  not;  and  therefore  that  the  wheat, 
while  it  affords  healthful  nourishment  to  the  body,  also  sus- 
tains the  organs  in  digesting  and  appropriating  that  nourish- 
ment; but  that  the  farina,  gluten  and  sugar,  though  purely 
nutrient  principles,  break  down  the  alimentary  organs, 
destroy  their  functional  powers,  and  cause  the  whole  system 
to  perish." 

Now,  either  Dr.  Graham  is  correct  in  these  statements,  or 
he  is  not.  If  incorrect,  it  would  be  the  easiest  thing  in  the 
world  to  demonstrate  the  fact,  by  a  few  simple  experiments 
upon  dogs.  If  Dr.  Graham  is  right,  we  ought  to  credit  his 
statements,  and  have  the  benefit  of  his  teachings. 

What  has  been  said  in  this  connection  in  regard  to  wheat, 
is  in  nowise  limited  to  that  grain — it  applies  with  more  or  less 
force  to  rye,  oats,  barley,  and  the  grains  in  general.  If  we 
want  the  best  that  there  is  in  them,  we  must  neither  reject 
nor  destroy  any  of  the  nutritive  substances  which  they  con- 
tain. Even  the  woody  fiber  which  forms  the  outer  coating 
of  the  grain,  when  properly  cleaned  and  cut  sufficiently  fine, 
serves  its  purpose  in  the  intestinal  canal — on  the  same  prin- 
ciple that  straw  is  needed  for  horses,  when  they  are  fed  too 


PAKT  I.]  WHEATEN  VS.    WHITE  FLOUR.  27 

exclusively  on  oats  or  other  grains.  We  need  bulk  as  well 
as  nutrition,  in  the  foods  we  eat;  were  this  not  the  case, 
what  would  be  the  use  of  all  the  varieties  of  fruits  and  vege- 
tables, many  of  which,  in  one  sense,  serve  to  "  fill  up  "  with 
fluid  or  solid  materials,  rather  than  to  supply  large  quanti- 
ties of  strictly  nutritive  substances  ?  Indeed,  we  can  scarcely 
commit  a  greater  mistake  than  to  confine  ourselves  to  the 
use  of  the  very  nutritious  or  concentrated  foods. 

To  present  this  whole  theme  in  a  nutshell,  the  reader  is 
referred  to  the  following  chapter,  which  gives  the  testimony 
of  Dr.  Calvin  Cutter,  that  well-known  physiologist  of 
Warren,  Massachusetts. 

Wheaten  vs.  White  Flour. 

The  idea  is  sometimes  entertained  that  bread  made  from 
wheaten  meal  (usually  called  Graham  flour),  is  less  nutritious 
than  that  made  of  the  ordinary  white  flour;  and  that  the 
persons  who  eat  it  are  simply  subjecting  themselves  to  a 
"  starvation  diet,"  which  does  not  support  life  properly.  Let 
those  who  cherish  such  views  read  Dr.  Cutter's  statements, 
and  then  decide  for  themselves  which  of  the  two  kinds  of 
bread  lacks  the  elements  of  nutrition  that  the  system  re- 
quires. First,  however,  let  us  hear,  in  a  few  words,  what  a 
well-known  divine  has  to  say. 

Rev.  J.  F.  Clymer,  of  Auburn,  N.  Y.,  has  given  a  discourse 
to  his  congregation  on  "Food  and  Morals,"  in  which  he 
goes  straight  to  the  root  of  the  matter*  In  speaking  of  the 
white  flour  of  commerce,  he  says:  "The  process  of  bolting 
or  refining  takes  from  the  wheat  most  of  the  phosphates 
and  nitrates,  the  elements  that  are  chiefly  required  for  mak- 
ing nerves,  muscles,  bones,  and  brains.  The  phosphates 
and  nitrates  being  removed  by  bolting,  very  little  remains 
in  the  flour  except  the  starchy  carbonates,  the  heat  and  fat- 


*  This  discourse  has  heen  published  in  pamphlet  form,  and  is  for  sale 
by  Fowler  &  Wells,  New  York. 


28  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

producing  elements.  The  use  of  fine  flour  bread  as  a  staple 
article  of  food,  introduces  too  much  heat  and  fat-producing 
elements  into  the  system;  and  where  there  is  too  much  car- 
bon or  heating  substance,  it  tends  rather  to  provoke  the 
system  to  unnatural  and  abnormal  action,  and  instead  of 
serving  as  an  element  to  warm  the  body,  its  tendency  is  to 
burn  or  consume,  heating  and  irritating  all  the  organs — 
getting  one  into  that  state  which  is  properly  known  as  *  hot- 
blooded.' 

"  The  fine  white  flour  ordinarily  used  has  two-thirds  of 
the  nitrogenous  and  mineral  nutriment  that  God  put  in  the 
wheat,  taken  out.  Unless  these  deficiencies  are  made  up  by 
some  other  foods,  the  exclusive  use  of  fine  flour  bread  will 
leave  the  nerves  and  bones  poorly  nourished,  producing  in 
some  systems  nervousness,  dyspepsia,  and  all  the  physical 
ills  that  follow  these  diseases,  together  with  impatience, 
fretfulness,  and  irratibility.  God  intended  that  all  the 
nutritive  properties  He  put  in  the  wheat  should  stay 
in  it  for  purposes  of  symmetrical  nourishment.  Fine  flour 
bread  may  be  used  for  purposes  of  producing  heat  in  the 
system,  but  it  does  not  feed  hungry  nerves  or  starving 
bones. 

"  One  reason  why  children  fed  chiefly  on  white  bread  feel 
hungry  nearly  all  the  time,  and  demand  so  much  food  be- 
tween meals,  is  found  in  the  fact  that  their  bodies  are  in- 
sufficiently nourished.  Their  bones  and  nerves  not  receiv- 
ing the  nitrates  and  phosphates  they  need,  are  suffering 
from  hunger." 

Now  we  will  hear  from  Dr.  Cutter.  He  says  :  "  1.  Flour 
is  the  only  impoverished  food  used  by  mankind — impover- 
ished by  the  withdrawal  of  the  tegumentary  portion  of  the 
wheat,  leaving  the  internal,  starchy  or  white  portion.  See 
the  facts  :  In  Johnson's  '  How  Crops  Grow '  you  find  that  in 
1,000  parts  of  substance,  wheat  has  an  ash  of  17.7  parts  ; 
flour  has  an  ash  of  4.1  parts — an  impoverishment  of  over 


PART  I.]  WHEATEN    VS.    WHITE   FLOUR.  29 

three-fourths.  Wheat  has  8.2  parts  phosphoric  acid  ;  flour 
has  2.1  parts  phosphoric  acid — an  impoverishment  of  about 
three-fourths.  Wheat  has  0.6  lime  and  0.6  soda  ;  flour  has 
0.1  lime  and  0.1  soda — an  impoverishment  of  five-sixths 
each.  Wbeat  has  1.5  sulphur  ;  flour  has  no  sulphur.  Wheat 
has  sulphuric  acid  0.5  ;  flour  has  no  sulphuric  acid.  Wheat 
has  silica  0.3  ;  flour  has  no  silica. 

"2.  Flour  is  mostly  starch — 68.7  percent.  Its  formula, 
chemical  composition,  is  C  10,  H  12,  O  12 — three  elements  ; 
carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen.  The  human  body  contains  at 
least  twelve  elements  besides  those  of  starch.  How,  then, 
can  flour  be  nutritious  with  about  three  elements,  when  it 
should  contain  fifteen  elements,  in  order  to  properly  nourish 
and  sustain  the  human  body  ? 

"  3.  Flour  has  less  gluten  than  wheat.  Gluten  is  the  al- 
buminoid principle  corresponding  to  the  albumen,  fibrin,  and 
gelatine  in  the  human  body. 

"  4.  Dogs  fed  by  Magendie  (vide  Kirke  &  Paget's  '  Physi- 
ology ')  on  flour  bread,  died  in  forty  days  ;  other  dogs,  fed 
on  bread  from  whole-wheat  meal  or  flour,  flourished  and 
throve.  The  three-fourths  impoverishment  of  the  mineral 
ingredients  proved  fatal  to  the  first.  Why  should  not  man- 
kind suffer  in  some  manner  from  living  on  impoverished 
food? 

"5.  The  history  of  the  Roman  Empire  in  the  time  of 
Julius  Caesar  shows  that  wheat,  as  an  article  of  food,  com- 
bined with  fresh  outdoor-air  life,  is  capable  of  producing 
and  sustaining  the  highest  type  of  physical  manhood  the 
world  ever  saw.  The  empire  was  built  up  and  maintained 
by  soldiers  whose  main  article  of  food  was  wheat. 

"  6.  There  is  every  probability  that  the  present  prevalence 
of  late  erupting  and  easily-decaying  teeth  is  due  for  one 
cause  to  the  use  of  flour  as  food.  In  eight  hundred  and 
eighty  of  the  school  children  in  Woburn,  Lexington,  and 
Bedford,  Massachusetts,  in  1874,  under  twelve  years  of  age, 


30  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

two-thirds  had  decayed  teeth.  See  'Report  State  Health 
Board  of  Massachusetts,  1875.' 

"  7.  There  is  every  probability  that  the  prevalence  of  pre- 
mature grayness  or  baldness,  is  partly  due  to  the  present  ex- 
clusive and  universal  use  of  white  flour.  Hair  contains  ten 
per  cent,  of  sulphamid  (N  H  2  S). — Mulder.  But  there  is 
no  sulphur  or  sulphuric  acid  in  flour.  A  flour,  to  be  food, 
must  contain  in  proper  quantities  all  ingredients  found  in 
the  tissues,  hair,  teeth,  etc.  If  it  does  not,  then  impairment 
of  vigor,  decay,  and  falling  off  must  be  expected  as  a  natural 
consequence. 

"  8.  Flour  for  half  a  century  has  been  regarded  as  one 
cause  of  constipation.  It  has  been  proved  that  whole- 
wheat meal  (or  flour)  regulates  the  bowels  by  giving  the 
system  nerve  food  to  'run,'  so  to  speak,  the  digestive 
functions  and  promote  healthy  peristaltic  motions.  Nearly 
all  our  functions  are  sustained  by  nerve-force  ;  hence  the 
importance  of  having  the  nerves  receive  their  full  amount 
of  phosphoric  acid,  which  is  the  great  pabulum  of  the  nerve 
tissue. 

"  9.  It  is  probable  that  the  use  of  flour  may  be  the  cause 
of  the  change  of  the  type  of  disease  from  strong  (sthenic) 
to  weak  (asthenic).* 

"10.  "Why  should  mankind,  then,  use  flour  and  render 
themselves  liable  to  disease,  because  flour  is  impoverished 
food?    Remember  Megendie's  dog  that  died  from  eating 


*  "  The  mineral  ingredients  of  food  for  plants,  contained  in  fertilizers, 
if  withdrawn  seventy-five  per  cent.,  would  entail  vegetable  growths  of 
very  feeble  vitality  and  the  resistance  to  the  causes  of  disease.  No  farmer 
would  think  of  manuring  his  vegetables  with  one-fourth  the  fertilizers 
ordinarily  deemed  necessary  ;  or  if  he  did,  he  would  get  a  miserable  and 
weak  crop,  if  he  got  any  at  all.  Now  it  is  asked,  May  it  not  be  possible 
that  the  present  type  of  asthenic  disease  is  partly  due  to  the  use  of  an  im- 
poverished food  like  flour  ?  The  answering  of  this  must  be  made  by  the 
organized  medical  societies,  although  there  is  every  probability  that  the 
reply  will  be  in  the  affirmative." 


PART  I.]  WHEATEN    VS.    WHITE   FLOUR.  31 

white-flour  bread  exclusively!  How  can  parents  expect 
their  children  to  grow  up  with  strong  teeth,  nerves,  eyes, 
naii',  etc.,  on  flour  ?  In  children  every  tissue  and  organ  is 
growing,  increasing  in  size,  and  developing.  Every  element 
which  belongs  to  those  tissues  and  organs  should  be  con- 
tained in  the  food  or  alimentary  substances,  and  in  normal 
proportions,  as  provided  by  the  Creator  in  the  natural  sub- 
stances designed  and  proved  by  history  to  be  perfect  food. 
Wheat  is  such  an  article  ;  but  white  flour  made  from  it  is  a 
substance  weakened,  deteriorated,  and  impoverished  ;  and 
history  shows  that  people  eating  it  are  more  subject  to  tissue- 
wasting  disease  (consumption,  etc.)  than  ever  before.  Why 
then,  not  use  the  whole  of  the  original  wheat,  ground  or  re- 
duced to  a  uniform  condition,  without  loss  or  injury  to  the 
food  elements,  with  its  native  normal  balance  of  quantity  of 
mineral  ingredients  in  a  soluble  assimilable  form,  as  Liebig 
and  others  advocate  ;  and  such  as  it  is  demonstrated  undeni- 
ably and  incontrovertibly,  by  facts  of  history,  to  be  capable  of 
producing  the  highest  type  of  manhood  the  world  ever  saw  ? 
Why  raise  a  pale,  feeble,  nervous,  and  small-sized  race  of 
people  on  flour  because  flour-bread  looks  white  and  light, 
and  therefore  is  considered  nice?  What  principle  of 
aesthetics  is  it  that  confers  such  a  pre-eminent  place  upon 
the  color  of  white  ?  Why  not  brown  or  bronze  ?  What  is 
more  grateful  to  the  senses  than  the  complementary  colors 
of  landscape  ?  If  it  were  all  white,  it  would  be  both  re- 
pulsive and  injurious.  This  preference  of  white  over  yel- 
low or  brown,  or  any  other  color,  is  not  based  upon  the 
truth  of  existing  facts,  else  it  would  be  inferred  that  a  white 
statue  is  preferable  to  a  bronze.  The  fact  is,  the  elevation 
of  white  bread  into  the  highest  place  of  preferment  is 
altogether  unfounded  and  unwarrantable.  The  white  color 
comes  from  starch  ;  and  the  whiter  the  bread  the  more 
starch  it  contains,  and  of  course  the  less  nutrition,  as  starch 
has   only  carbon,  hydrogen,   and  oxygen  to   make  tissue, 


32  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

which  would  contain  fifteen  elements.  The  whiteness  of 
flour  is,  in  fact,  an  outward  sign  of  the  starvation  and  death 
within.  Indeed,  the  present  universal  use  of  white  flour  is 
one  of  the  most  remarkable  facts  in  the  history  of  civiliza- 
tion— remarkable,  because  it  is  the  only  impoverished  food 
upon  the  diet  list.  Over-boiled  meats  and  vegetables  are 
the  only  approach  to  impoverished  food.  People  know 
enough  not  to  eat  them.  But  that  they  should  love  to  eat 
white  flour  is  certainly  very  remarkable  indeed,  and  almost 
an  evidence  of  a  fallen  nature,  as  there  is  nothing  like  it  in 
the  whole  history  of  eating. 

"  11.  What  is  wanted  is  a  wholesome,  healthful,  nourish- 
ing wheat  food — a  whole-wheat  flour  in  the  fullest  and 
broadest  sense  of  the  term — containing  every  one  of  the 
fifteen  elements  in  their  normal  proportions,  and  reduced 
to  an  entire  evenness  of  condition,  which  is  most  favorable 
to  digestion  and  assimilation.  It  is  a  common  practice,  to 
a  large  extent,  to  grind  the  finest  and  soundest  wheat  into 
fine  flour,  and  the  poorest  into  what  is  called  '  Graham  flour.' 
This  term  *  Graham  flour '  ought  no  longer  to  be  used  ; 
it  is  a  kind  of  general  name  given  to  mixtures  of  bran,  and 
poor  and  often  spoilt  flour,  to  a  large  extent  unfit  for  human 
food.  We  must  have  a  thoroughly  pure,  sweet,  and  nutri- 
tious whole-wheat  flour,  made  from  the  choicest  and  ripest 
wheat,  wholly  (bran,  or  cortical  portion,  and  all)  reduced 
to  a  uniform  fineness  of  quality,  and  well  put  up  for  family 
use  ;  and  whoever  will  give  his  earnest  and  honest  efforts 
to  furnishing  such  a  flour,  and  keep  its  manufacture  up  to 
this  high  standard  all  the  time,  will  confer  a  lasting  benefit 
upon  his  race  and  generation,  and  find  a  remunerative 
market  for  all  he  can  produce.  The  brown  loaf  is  to  our 
eye  as  handsome  as  the  white,  and  in  it  we  secure  all  the 
important  nutritive  principles  which  the  Creator  for  wise 
reasons  has  stored  up  in  wheat." 

As  respects  the  relative  values  of  white  flour  and  that  of 


PART  I.]  THE   FRUITS.  33 

the  whole  wheat,  the  following  table,  if  even  proximately 
correct,  ought  to  be  of  especial  interest.  It  was  submitted 
by  a  Mr.  Johnson,  some  years  ago  in  Blackwood's  Magazine : 

In  1,000  lbs.  Whole  Wheat.  Fine  Flour. 

Muscular  matter 156  lbs.  130  lbs. 

Bones  and  saline  matter 170  "  60  " 

Fatty  matter 28  "  20  " 

Total  in  each 354  "  210  " 


The  Fruits. 

Fruits  are  almost  as  indispensable  to  a  healthful  dietary 
as  the  grains,  particularly  in  the  summer  season,  and  in 
warm  climates.  They  supply  those  delightf  ul  acids  that  are 
not  only  agreeable  to  the  palate,  but  specially  suited  to  the 
needs  of  the  vital  organism.  They  cool  and  refresh  us  in 
the  heat  of  summer ;  they  supply  organic  fluids  to  the 
system,  replacing  those  that  are  lost  in  perspiration  from 
day  to  day  ;  and  they  keep  the  vital  machinery  in  good 
working  order.  If  no  other  proof  were  furnished  of  the 
natural  requirements  of  the  human  system  for  fruits,  a  very 
broad  hint  is  given  in  the  fact  that  they  are  capable  of 
being  grown  in  nearly  every  quarter  of  the  habitable  globe  ; 
throughout  the  temperate  zones,  as  well  as  the  tropics,  we 
find  them  in  great  abundance. 

Another  evidence  in  the  same  direction,  is  the  fact  that 
in  the  course  of  the  season  the  different  varieties  of  fruits 
follow  each  other  in  close  succession,  so  that  one  is 
hardly  gone  till  another  is  ready.  And,  as  if  to  supply  any 
defect  that  may  arise  from  negligence  on  our  part,  or  from 
climatic  causes,  one  quarter  of  the  globe  supplements  an- 
other to  such  a  degree,  that  any  local  failure  in  the  fruit 
crop  is  largely  made  up  by  an  over-abundant  yield  in  some 
neighboring  locality.  So  that  if  apples  fail  us  in  the 
Middle  States,  they  are  directly  shipped  from  the  North  ; 
or  if  the  supply  from  that  quarter  is  short,  there  are  peaches 


34  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

and  oranges  in  the  South.  And  yet,  how  much  more  com- 
plete would  this  arrangement  be,  if  the  soil  were  so  culti- 
vated from  year  to  year  as  to  yield  its  largest  product! 
Anything  like  a  complete  failure  of  the  fruit  crop,  were 
such  a  thing  possible  in  this  country,  would  be  nothing 
short  of  a  great  national  calamity.  Next  to  the  grains, 
therefore,  in  dietetic  importance,  we  must  place  the  fruits  ; 
they  minister  alike  to  the  pleasures  of  the  appetite,  and  to 
the  actual  wants  of  our  bodies. 

The  sour  fruits,  especially,  are  the  best  of  "  cholagogues," 
doing  away  with  all  need  of  "  bilious  remedies,"  so  called  ; 
they  stimulate  the  liver  to  its  normal  activity,  and  prevent 
that  "  clogging  up  "  of  the  organ  which  causes  retention  of 
bile,  thickening  of  the  blood,  and  other  derangements  conse- 
quent upon  non-performance  of  functional  action.  And  it 
will  be  observed  that  those  which  have  keen  acids,  come  in 
great  profusion  just  at  the  time  we  need  them  most ;  viz., 
after  the  long  winter,  when  both  fruits  and  vegetables  are 
necessarily  scarce. 

Fruits  are  the  natural  correctives  for  disordered  diges- 
tion ;  but  the  way  in  which  many  persons  eat  them,  con- 
verts them  into  a  curse  rather  than  a  blessing.  Instead  of 
being  taken  on  an  empty  stomach,  or  in  combination  with 
simple  grain  preparations,  as  bread,  they  are  eaten  with 
oily  foods,  with  meat  and  vegetables,  pungent  seasonings, 
or  other  unwholesome  condiments  ;  or  they  are  taken  at  the 
end  of  the  meal,  after  the  stomach  is  already  full,  and  per- 
haps the  whole  mass  of  food  "  washed  down "  with  tea, 
coffee  or  other  liquid  ;  or  they  are  eaten  at  all  hours  of  the 
day  ;  or  late  at  night,  with  ice-cream,  cake  or  other  rich 
desserts ;  and  a  few  hours  after,  when  there  is  a  sick 
patient,  and  the  doctor  has  to  be  sent  for,  the  innocent 
fruits  get  the  blame  of  all  the  mischief,  when  really,  their 
only  sin  was  in  being  found  in  bad  company. 

Fruits,  to  do  their  best  work,  should  be  eaten  either  on  an 


PABT  I.]  THE   FRUITS.  35 

empty  stomach,  or  simply  with  bread — never  with  vegeta- 
bles. In  the  morning,  before  the  fast  of  the  night  has 
been  broken,  they  are  not  only  exceedingly  refreshing,  but 
they  serve  as  a  natural  stimulus  to  the  digestive  organs. 
And  to  produce  their  fullest,  finest  effect,  they  should  be 
ripe,  sound,  and  every  way  of  good  quality  ;  moreover, 
they  should  be  eaten  raw.  What  is  better  than  a  bunch  of 
luscious  grapes,  or  a  plate  of  berries  or  cherries,  on  a  sum- 
mer morning  the  first  thing  on  sitting  down  to  breakfast  ? 
Or  a  fine  ripe  apple,  rich  and  juicy,  eaten  in  the  same  way -. 
In  our  climate  apples  should  constitute  not  the  finishing,  bui 
the  beginning  of  the  meal,  particularly  the  breakfast,  for  a» 
least  six  months  in  the  year  ;  and  fruits,  raw  or  cooked 
should  make  a  part  of  the  morning  and  evening  meal  (pro 
vided  suppers  are  eaten),  during  the  entire  year. 

The  good  effects  that  would  follow  the  abundant  use  o\ 
fruits  are  often  more  than  counterbalanced  by  the  per- 
nicious habit  of  completely  saturating  them  with  sugai. 
Very  few  fruits,  if  thoroughly  ripe  and  at  their  best,  require 
any  sugar,  particularly  if  eaten  in  the  raw  state  ;  but  un- 
happily it  is  a  fact,  that  what  was  intended  and  prepared 
for  us  as  a  great  good  in  the  matter  of  diet,  should  be  trans- 
formed into  just  the  opposite.  It  is  also  a  misfortune  that 
people  in  this  country  should  so  habituate  themselves  to 
"  sweet  things  "  (foods  prepared  with  sugar),  that  almost 
everything  in  the  line  of  fruit  acids  "tastes  sour";  so  that 
what  would  otherwise  be  a  pleasant  acid  flavor,  must  be 
covered  with  or  cooked  in  sugar,  before  it  can  be  relished. 

The  taste  can  be  educated  in  this  direction,  as  in  its 
opposite,  to  an  almost  unlimited  extent.  This  is  seen  in 
comparing  the  dietetic  habits  and  tastes  of  the  people  of 
this  country  with  those  of  Great  Britain  ;  the  former  use 
perhaps  five  times  the  amount  of  sugar  that  would  suffice 
for  the  latter.  And  cooked  fruits  that  are  "  plenty  sweet " 
for  an  Englishman  or  Scotchman,  would  not  be  touched  by 
4 


36  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  L 

the  average  American  without  the  saccharine  condiment.  It 
is  worthy  of  remark,  moreover,  that  those  who  are  excessively 
fond  of  sweet  fruits  or  condiments,  rarely  fail  to  call  for  the 
intensely  sour,  as  lemons  or  pickles.  This,  indeed,  is  a  neces- 
sary consequence  ;  for  when  the  liver  is  badly  congested 
from  the  use  of  sugar,  the  vital  instincts  naturally  call  for 
the  keen  acids,  in  order  to  empty  out  the  bile  ducts,  set 
them  in  good  working  order,  and  get  rid  of  the  debris. 

Whoever  can  induce  our  people  to  turn  their  attention 
more  largely  to  the  cultivation  of  fruits,  and  then  show  them 
the  necessity  of  making  them  a  staple  on  their  tables,  to  the 
exclusion  of  so  much  animal  and  fatty  foods  (particularly 
butter),  will  confer  upon  them  an  incalculable  blessing. 
Such  a  change  would  save  the  lives  of  thousands  of  children 
— to  say  nothing  of  those  of  a  larger  growth — and  it  would 
make  the  ones  that  survive  better  worth  the  saving. 

Many  persons,  with  rather  feeble  digestive  powers,  can 
not  manage  raw  fruits,  as  apples,  at  the  evening  meal ;  and 
some,  who  can  eat  them  with  impunity  at  the  beginning  of 
the  breakfast  or  dinner,  can  not  digest  them  well  at  the  end 
of  the  meal.  One  reason  for  this  is,  that  after  taking  warm 
food  into  the  stomach,  its  nerves  are  to  a  certain  degree  re- 
laxed, and  that  organ  is  no  longer  able  to  do  its  best  work. 
And  just  here  we  have  the  explanation  of  another  fact,  viz., 
that  if  the  meal  is  simply  a  cold  lunch,  raw  fruit  can  gener- 
ally be  eaten  at  the  beginning,  middle,  or  end  of  it,  without 
the  slightest  inconvenience. 

Sylvester  Graham,  M.D.,  furnishes  still  another  reason, 
which  is  probably  a  good  one,  why  raw  fruit  is  usually 
better  digested  in  the  earlier  than  the  later  hours  of  the  day. 
He  says  :  "  But  it  should  always  be  remembered  that  fruit 
of  every  description,  if  eaten  at  all,  should  be  eaten  as  food, 
and  not  as  mere  pastime,  or  merely  for  the  sake  of  gusta- 
tory enjoyment ;  and  therefore  it  should,  as  a  general  rule, 
be  eaten  at  the  table,  or  constitute  a  portion  of  the  regular 


PART  I.J  THE   FRUITS.  37 

meal.  I  do  not  mean  as  the  dessert  of  flesh-eaters,  after 
they  have  eaten  already  enough  of  other  food  ;  but  I  mean 
as  a  portion  of  the  regular  meal  of  vegetable-eaters,  taken 
with  their  bread,  instead  of  flesh  and  butter  ;  for  their  break- 
fast and  their  dinner,  but  more  sparingly  at  their  third 
meal  or  supper,  especially  if  this  meal  be  taken  late  in  the 
day.  The  truth  is,  that  all  cooked  food,  even  under  the 
best  regulations,  impairs  in  some  degree  the  power  of  the 
stomach  to  digest  uncooked  substances  ;  and  therefore,  so 
long  as  we  are  accustomed  to  cooked  food  of  any  kind,  we 
must  be  somewhat  more  careful  in  regard  to  the  times 
when  we  eat  fruit  and  other  substances  in  their  natural 
state.  The  digestive  organs  always  in  health  partake  of 
the  general  vigor  and  freshness  of  the  body,  and  always 
share  with  it  also  in  its  weariness  and  exhaustion.  Hence, 
as  a  general  rule,  so  long  as  we  are  accustomed  to  cooked 
food,  the  stomach  will  always  digest  fruit  and  other  sub- 
stances in  their  natural  state  better  in  the  early  than 
in  the  latter  part  of  the  day.  Moreover,  it  is  a  truth  of 
considerable  importance,  that  fruit  and  other  substances  in 
the  natural  state  are  digested  with  more  ease  and  comfort 
when  taken  alone,  at  a  regular  meal-time,  than  when  taken 
with  any  kind  of  cooked  food,  except  good  bread.  While, 
therefore,  human  beings,  and  especially  in  civilized  life, 
wholly  disregard  these  physiological  principles,  and  eat 
fruit  with  anything  and  everything  else,  and  at  all  hours  of 
the  day  and  night,  they  ought  not  to  be  surprised,  and  still 
less  should  they  complain,  if  they  suffer  from  their  erro- 
neous habits.  But  nothing  is  more  certain  than  that  if 
human  beings  will  in  a  reasonable  degree  conform  to  the 
physiological  laws  of  their  nature,  they  may  eat  almost 
every  variety  of  esculent  fruits  which  the  vegetable  king- 
dom produces,  with  entire  safety  and  comfort." 


38  health  in  the  household.  [paet  i, 

The  Vegetables. 

Vegetables,  while  they  must  rank  second  as  compared 
with  fruits,  have  a  greater  value,  dietetically  considered, 
than  is  generally  accorded  to  them.  In  the  first  place,  they 
give  bulk  to  our  food,  which  is  a  matter  of  more  importance 
than  is  commonly  supposed  ;  and  in  the  next  place,  they 
furnish  a  large  amount  of  organic  fluids,  which  are  digested 
and  assimilated  "by  the  system.  It  is  a  mistaken  idea  which 
some  persons  have,  that  those  foods  are  necessarily  best 
which  contain  a  large  amount  of  nutrition  in  small  bulk. 
They  seem  to  forget  that  food,  to  be  properly  digested  and 
appropriated  by  the  organism,  must  contain  something 
more  than  the  mere  nutritive  particles ;  there  must  be 
certain  indigestible  materials  supplied  to  the  intestinal 
canal,  else  the  bowels,  having  little  to  do,  would  lose  their 
natural  tone,  and  shrivel  up,  as  it  were,  from  mere  inac- 
tivity. This  is  what  actually  happens,  to  a  certain  degree, 
when  persons  live  too  exclusively  on  white  crackers,  or  fine 
flour  bread,  and  other  highly  concentrated  forms  of  food. 

G-.  Schlickeysen,  a  German  writer,  in  treating  of  this 
subject,  says  :  "  The  value  of  the  various  articles  of  food 
consists  not,  as  is  generally  supposed,  in  their  chemical  con- 
stituents, but  in  a  variety  of  other  conditions,  which  we 
shall  here  mention.  In  the  first  place,  the  food  must  con- 
tain the  necessary  amount  of  water  to  maintain  the  excre- 
tory processes  through  the  breath,  perspiration,  and  other- 
wise. Fruits  contain  an  abundant  supply  of  water,  so  that 
when  they  are  eaten  freely  the  drinking  of  water  is  almost 
entirely  unnecessary  ;  and  the  vegetarians  are  really  justifi- 
able when  they  say,  'We  drink  fruit';  and  they  might  also 
add,  «  We  eat  water.' " 

Horses?  it  is  well  known,  can  not  live  exclusively  on 
grains  ;  they  need  straw  as  well — and  even  wood-shavings 
have  been  successfully  substituted  when  straw  could  not  be 


PART  I.]  THE   VEGETABLES.  39 

had.*  On  the  same  principle,  if  not  to  the  same  extent, 
human  beings  thrive  best  on  a  diet  that  contains  a  certain 
per  cent,  of  coarse  material.  For  example,  the  grains,  as 
wheat,  rye,  etc.,  which  are  excellent  in  themselves,  are  not 
the  best  by  themselves. 

Nor  must  we  overlook  the  fact  that  our  bodies  are  made 
up  of  both  fluids  and  solids — about  one-fourth  of  the  latter 
to  three-fourths  of  the  former  ;  or,  as  some  one  has  stated 
it,  in  rather  general  terms,  the  human  body  is  so  many 
pounds  of  salts,  etc.,  and  a  "  few  pailfuls  of  water."  Now, 
when  we  consider  that  the  fluids  of  the  body  are  the  first  to 
waste,  either  in  sickness  or  health,  it  will  be  seen  that  in 
order  to  supply  that  waste,  liquids  as  well  as  solids  are ' 
required  in  the  food.  The  potato,  which  is  75  per  cent. 
water,  and  which  many  call  poor  in  nutritive  value,  will  of 
itself  sustain  life  for  an  indefinite  length  of  time.  Indeed, 
if  we  had  to  choose  a  single  article,  and  live  on  it  exclu- 
sively, the  potato  would  come  nearer  meeting  the  wants  of 
the  system,  so  far  as  its  fluids  are  concerned,  than  the 
grains,  which  contain  so  large  a  proportion  of  solid  matter. 
Pavy,  in   his   treatise  on  Food   and  Dietetics,  very  justly 


*  The  following  paragraph  is  from  Dr.  Graham's  "  Science  of  Human 
Life": 

"About  thirty  years  aao,"  says  Governor  William  King,  of  Maine,  "I 
went  to  the  "West  Indies,  and  during  my  voyage  became  acquainted  with 
the  following  fact,  which  may  be  relied  on  as  strictly  true.  A  vessel  from 
New  England,  with  a  deck  load  of  horses,  bound  to  the  West  Indies,  was 
overtaken  by  a  violent  gale,  which  swept  away  all  the  hay  on  board,  and 
carried  away  the  masts.  The  captain  was  obliged  to  feed  his  horses  on 
corn.  After  a  while  they  began  to  droop  and  to  lose  their  appetite,  and 
at  length  wholly  refused  to  eat  their  grain,  and  began  to  gnaw  the  scant- 
lings and  spars  within  their  reach,  and  to  bite  at  the  men,  and  eve^thing 
else  that  came  in  their  way.  The  captain  threw  pieces  of  wood  before 
them,  which  they  immediately  began  to  eat.  After  this,  he  regularly  sup- 
plied them  with  a  quantity  of  cedar  shingles,  which  they  eagerty  ate  as 
they  would  hay,  and  soon  recovered  their  appetite  for  their  grain,  and 
improved  in  health  and  sprightliness,  and  continued  to  do  well  on  theif 
food  of  corn  and  cedar  shingles  till  they  got  into  port." 


4:0  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

remarks  that,  physiologically,  "  the  separation  of  the  ingesta 
into  '  food '  and  '  drink '  is  unsuitable  ;  that  the  two  factors 
of  life  are  food  and  air";  and  that  the  former  "embraces 
both  solid  and  liquid  matter." 

It  is,  indeed,  a  nice  point  to  determine  just  what  propor- 
tion of  our  food  should  be  fluid  and  what  solid,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  indigestible  matter,  as  bran  in  wheat,  which 
is  necessary  to  the  normal  or  healthy  action  of  the  intestinal 
canal.  One  thing  is  certain  :  in  warm  weather,  when  there 
is  much  waste  of  the  fluids  of  the  body  through  the  skin, 
the  supply  of  liquid  material  must  be  correspondingly  large. 
Here  is  where  the  juicy  fruits,  and  even  the  vegetables,  sup- 
ply a  great  want  in  the  vital  economy  ;  they  give  us  a  large 
amount  of  fluid  matter,  in  an  organized  state.  Indeed,  we 
have  a  most  beneficent  arrangement  in  the  relation  of  sup- 
ply and  demand  ;  when  our  needs  are  greatest  and  most 
urgent,  the  stock  of  supplies  from  Nature's  storehouse  is 
most  abundant. 

In  the  early  spring,  when  we  have  grown  tired  of  "  last 
year's  leavings,"  the  tender  vegetables  fill  our  markets  and 
delight  our  eyes  in  glad  anticipation  of  a  change  in  the 
repast.  The  young  beets,  the  spinach  and  asparagus,  the 
early  cauliflower,  and  even  the  lettuce  and  onions,  have 
charms  for  us  then.  As  summer  draws  nigh,  the  varieties 
of  choice  vegetables  multiply,  giving  us  green  peas,  toma- 
toes, string  beans,  summer  squashes,  and  an  almost  endless 
variety  of  products.  Then  come  the  autumn  days,  and  with 
them  the  great  Lima  beans,  the  Hubbard  squashes,  and  the 
sweet  potatoes.  Nor  does  the  supply  fail  us  when  winter 
approaches  ;  there  are  still  turnips,  potatoes,  cabbage,  win- 
ter squashes,  and  other  good  things.  Really,  it  is  little  less 
than  wonderful  what  varieties  of  vegetable  products  there 
are,  even  in  a  single  latitude  or  climate. 

Another  feature  in  regard  to  vegetable  foods,  is  the  strong 
contrast  that  exists  in  the  flavors  of  the  several  products. 


PART  I.]  THE   VEGETABLES.  41 

There  are  "  families,"  it  is  true,  the  members  of  which  show 
their  kinship  by  a  similarity  of  flavor  and  texture  ;  but  out- 
side of  these  the  differences  or  individualities  are  strongly 
marked.  For  example,  what  is  more  unlike  in  appearance 
and  taste  than  a  cabbage  and  a  sweet  potato,  or  a  beet  and 
a  butter  bean  ? 

Some  of  these  vegetables  are  of  less  value  as  foods  than 
others,  their  dietetic  importance  seeming  to  consist  more  in 
the  individual  constituent  that  is  added  to  the  general  food 
product,  than  to  the  merit  that  belongs  to  them  separately 
considered.  To  illustrate  :  common  lettuce  does  not  seem 
to  possess  any  extraordinary  dietetic  properties  ;  but  after 
a  long  winter,  when  everybody  has  tired  of  bread,  beans 
and  potatoes,  to  say  nothing  of  "  beef,  mutton  and  ham,"  a 
fresh  bunch  of  tender  lettuce  with  a  dressing  of  lemon 
juice,  is  to  most  persons  really  inviting.  So  is  a  dish  of 
young  peas,  cauliflower  or  spinach.  Something  green  is 
wanted  after  the  old  sameness  of  dry  dishes,  and  it  would 
be  a  great  misfortune  if,  for  even  one  season,  the  gardens 
should  fail  us. 

Vegetables  and  fruits  are  so  unlike  in  their  individual 
flavors  and  characteristics,  that  they  should  not,  as  a  rule, 
be  eaten  together,  or  at  the  same  meal.  A  good  plan  is  to 
confine  the  vegetables  to  the  noon-day  repast,  letting  the 
morning  and  evening  meal  be  made  of  fruits  and  cereals 
variously  prepared.  Ordinarily,  these  latter  are  quite  suffi- 
cient for  breakfast,  though  a  dish  of  baked  potatoes  would 
not  be  a  bad  accompaniment.  The  potato  is  so  unobtrusive 
in  its  nature,  that  it  rarely  creates  disturbance  eaten  with 
any  other  food.  Like  the  grains,  it  "goes  well"  with 
either  fruits  or  vegetables,  and  it  is  about  the  only  vegetable 
of  which  as  much  can  be  said.  Not  that  well  people,  who 
scarcely  know  they  have  a  stomach,  might  not  manage  a 
meal  very  well  with  miscellaneous  combinations,  but  feeble 
stomachs  must  either  discriminate,  or  suffer.     For  a  fuller 


42  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  1. 

elucidation   of  this  subject,  the  reader  is  referred  to  the 
chapter  on  Food  Combinations. 

Meat  as  an  Akticle  of  Diet. 

The  flesh  of  healthy  animals,  as  beef  or  mutton,  is  neither 
the  best  nor  the  worst  of  foods.  In  actual  nutritive  value, 
so  far  as  either  quality  or  quantity  of  nutrient  material  is 
concerned,  the  grains  will  always  stand  at  the  head  of  the 
food  products.  In  respect  to  variety,  we  have  but  to  add 
to  these  the  various  fruits  and  vegetables,  each  in  its  season 
and  in  its  highest  state  of  culture,  and  we  have,  as  many 
believe,  all,  and  the  best,  that  is  needed  for  the  sustenance 
of  our  bodies.  But  such  are  the  customs  in  modern  cook- 
ery, and  such  the  arts  and  inventions  of  civilized  life,  that 
these  things,  naturally  good,  are  often  transformed  into  any- 
thing but  wholesome  foods.  It  is,  therefore,  a  common 
remark,  made  even  by  those  who  do  not  approve  of  eating 
the  flesh  of  animals,  that  meats,  prepared  in  a  plain  way, 
are  far  less  injurious  than  many  other  articles  that  are  often 
found  on  our  tables  ;  such,  for  example,  as  fine  flour  bread, 
ordinary  cake,  pickles,  pungent  sauces,  preserves,  jellies,  the 
usual  pastries,  etc.,  etc.  At  the  same  time  the  question 
remains,  whether  any  of  the  meat  dishes  can  begin  to  com- 
pare with  a  fruit  and  bread  diet  (using  bread  made  from 
the  flour  of  the  whole  wheat),  either  in  nutritive  value,  or  in 
respect  to  health. 

In  the  first  place,  every  particle  of  animal  flesh  (including 
the  human),  is,  to  a  certain  extent,  laden  with  effete,  worn- 
out  material  that  is  making  its  way  out  of  the  vital  domain. 
It  is  that  kind  of  material  out  of  which  are  formed  the 
bile,  perspiration,  and  other  excretory  products,  the  bare 
mention  of  which  would  be  unsuitable  in  a  work  of  this 
kind.  These  products  are  the  results  of  a  transformation 
in  the  downward  grade — sometimes  called  destructive  assimi- 
lation— by  which  the  ingredients  of  the  animal  tissues  are 


PART  I.]  MEAT  AS  AN  ARTICLE  OF  DIET.  43 

decomposed,  and  converted  into  waste  substances.  In  the 
language  of  the  physiologist,  they  represent  the  "physio- 
logical detritis  of  the  animal  organism."  Every  drop  of 
venous  blood  is  laden  with  it ;  so  much  so,  that  if  an  animal 
is  not  well  bled  when  it  is  killed,  the  meat  is  actually  poi- 
soned by  it. 

It  is  the  presence  of  these  waste  products  in  meat,  that 
renders  it  so  quickly  putrescent  after  life  is  extinct — unless 
some  antiseptic  is  employed,  which  shall  so  change  the 
nature  of  the  meat  itself  as  to  render  it  no  longer  the  same, 
even  in  nutritive  value.  It  is  the  presence  of  these  that 
causes  the  chyle  formed  from  a  diet  of  meat,  and  taken 
from  the  living  vessels,  to  putrefy  in  a  few  hours  ;  while 
that  which  is  elaborated  from  grains  and  other  vegetable 
products,  will  keep  for  weeks  with  no  material  change.  It 
is  due  to  the  presence  of  these  that  the  perspiration,  and 
indeed  all  the  excretions  of  meat-eaters,  are  more  offensive 
than  those  of  persons  living  upon  fruits  and  grains,  and 
other  products  of  the  soil.  And  just  here  we  have  an  ex- 
planation of  the  fact  that  the  flesh  of  most  carnivorous 
animals  is  so  disgustingly  filthy  and  putrescent,  that  it  is 
utterly  unfit  for  human  food.  Their  bodies  are  filled  with 
this  waste  matter,  working  its  way  a  second  time  out  of  the 
domain  of  animal  life,  and  this  time  laden  with  still  another 
portion  of  "physiological  detritis." 

Persons  who  live  upon  animal  foods  have  need  to  pay 
special  attention  to  bathing,  change  of  underwear,  and  other 
habits  of  cleanliness,  else  their  very  presence  will  reveal  the 
character  of  the  materials  out  of  which  their  tissues  are 
made.  This  is  particularly  true  in  the  case  of  individuals 
whose  sedentary  habits  prevent  them  from  throwing  off  the 
waste  matters  fast  enough  to  keep  the  body  in  a  pure,  whole- 
some condition. 

But  there  are  reasons  of  a  moral  nature  why  meat  is  not 
the  proper  food  for  man.     The  habit  of  murdering  animals 


41  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  (_PART  L 

is  of  itself  degrading;  even  beef -loving  England  will  not,  it 
is  said,  allow  a  butcher  to  serve  on  a  jury,  particularly  if 
the  case  to  be  tried  is  one  involving  human  life.  One  of 
the  foulest  murders  that  ever  disgraced  a  peaceful  commu- 
nity, was  committed  some  years  ago  in  Ohio,  by  a  man 
(supposed  by  his  neighbors  to  be  a  peaceable  citizen)  who 
had  spent  the  day  in  killing  hogs;  he  pursued  his  victim,  a 
young  woman,  to  the  village  church-yard,  and  there  stabbed 
her  with  the  very  knife  with  which  he  had  cut  the  throats 
of  the  swine. 

As  to  the  actual  necessity  for  a  meat  diet,  it  is  not  true, 
as  some  suppose,  that  vigorous  health  can  not  be  maintained 
without  it.  On  the  contrary,  "four-tenths  of  the  human 
race,"  according  to  Yirey,  subsist  exclusively  on  a  vegetable 
diet,  and  as  many  as  seven-tenths  are  practically  vegeta- 
rians.* 

Then,  there  is  an  argument  outside  of  physiology — one 
that  sooner  or  later  will  have  to  be  considered — why  the 
flesh  of  animals  should  not  form  a  part  of  the  diet  of  human 
beings.  At  the  present  rate  of  increase  of  the  human  fami- 
ly, the  surface  of  the  earth  will,  in  a  few  centuries,  be  far 
too  densely  populated  to  admit  of  the  raising  of  animals  to 
be  used  as  food.  For  it  has  been  shown  that  it  would 
require  more  than  forty  times  as  much  land  to  feed  a  man 
on  meat,  as  it  would  to  feed  him  on  grains. f  It  follows, 
therefore,  that  when  land  is  scarce,  as  it  will  be  when  the 
earth  is  many  times  more  thickly  populated  than  at  present, 
the  acres  will  have  to  be  utilized  in  the  way  that  is  most 
profitable;  not  in  the  raising  of  hogs,  cattle  and  sheep,  but 
in  the  cultivation  of  grains,  and  other  products  of  the  soil. 

Keturning  to  the  sanitary  argument  against  the  use  of 


*See  "Physical  Education,"  by  Felix  L.  Oswald,  M.D.,  published  by 
D.  Appleton  &  Co. 

t  See  essay  on  "  The  Influence  of  Food  on  Civilization,"  by  Eichard  A. 
Proctor,  in  the  North  American  Review  for  December,  1882. 


PART  I.]  MEAT   AS   AN    ARTICLE    OF   DIET.  45 

animal  foods,  it  is  proper  to  remark  that  so  long  as  there 
are  persons  who,  from  life-long  habit  or  otherwise,  think 
they  "  must  have  it,"  they  should  at  all  events  beware  of  dis~ 
eased  meats.  The  cattle  that  are  shipped  into  New  York  for 
the  market,  have  many  ot  them  come  hundreds  oi  miles  in 
ill-ventilated  cars,  often  in  hot  weather,  and  are  stowed  into 
fhem  almost  as  closely  as  they  can  stand;  here  they  are  sur- 
rounded with  a  stifling,  filthy  atmosphere,  and  frequently 
they  have  not  a  drop  of  water  on  the  whole  journey.  A 
large  per  cent,  are  disabled  from  being  trampled  underfoot; 
and  by  the  time  they  reach  the  city  some  of  them  are  sick 
or  dying  with  typhoid  or  other  putrid  fevers,  and  all  are  in 
such  a  feverish  condition  that  their  bodies  are  poisoned, 
through  and  through. 

Nor  must  it  be  forgotten  that  all  stall-fed  or  sty-fed  ani- 
mals are,  to  a  certain  extent,  diseased;  in  fact,  the  fattening 
process  is  of  itself  nothing  more  nor  less  than  the  progress 
of  disease.  When  an  animal  ceases  to  take  exercise,  as  in  a 
stall,  it  also  ceases  to  throw  on2  excretory  matter  promptly; 
its  liver  becomes  engorged,  the  lungs  are  pressed  upon,  the 
blood  can  not  be  properly  aerated,  and  loads  of  carbon 
retained  excretion)  in  the  shape  of  fat,  are  impacted  between 
the  once  healthy  muscles,  which  are  now  every  day  getting 
smaller  and  smaller.  Fat  people,  as  well  as  fat  animals, 
have  small,  weak  muscles — a  fact  well  understood  by 
the  medical  student. 

The  presence  of  certain  parasites  in  animal  foods,  is 
another  strong  objection  to  their  use.  It  is  a  well-known 
fact  that  the  ova  of  trichinae  are  taken  into  the  human  sys- 
tem by  eating  pork,  and  especially  raw  pork;  and  it  has 
been  questioned  whether  any  moderate  degree  of  heat  would 
be  sufficient  to  kill  them.  It  is  also  perfectly  well  known 
that  the  larvae  of  the  tapeworm  may  exist  in  oxen,  sheep 
and  swine;  and  that  those  who  eat  of  the  flesh  of  these  ani- 


46  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

mals,  particularly  if  it  be  not  well  cooked,  are  more  or  less 
exposed  to  the  tapeworm  malady.* 

Animals  that  are  to  be  eaten  should  be  fed  on  the  cleanest 
of  food,  and  should  have  plenty  of  pure  water  to  drink; 
they  should  never  be  kept  in  confined  places,  or  with  filthy 
surroundings.  In  fact,  they  need  at  least  a  ten-acre  field  to 
run  in,  and  get  plenty  of  exercise  and  fresh  air,  as  well  as 
fresh  grass.  "  But  how  can  they  have  this,"  you  ask,  "  when 
the  country  becomes  densely  populated  all  through  ?  It 
will  take  more  room  for  the  animals,  than  the  people  have 
for  themselves  and  their  children."  Yery  true;  and  when 
this  is  the  case,  the  people  will  then  be  obliged  to  live  upon 
fruits  and  grains,  and  the  products  of  the  garden,  which 
will  be  infinitely  better  for  them.  Meat  is  an  expensive 
diet,  every  way  you  take  it;  but  the  expense  in  actual  dol- 
lars and  cents,  is  the  least  part  of  it.  Used  three  times  a 
day,  as  it  is  by  very  many  of  our  people,  it  is  anything  but 
health-producing;  and  the  doctors'  bills  often  exceed  those 
at  the  meat  market — to  say  nothing  of  the  time  lost,  the 
suffering  endured,  and  the  actual  impairment  of  the  general 
health. 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  butcher,  as  well  as  of  those  who  pur- 
chase the  meat,  to  see  that  no  animal  is  killed  in  an  angered 
condition,  as  the  blood  is  actually  poisoned  by  the  mental 
excitement  thus  produced.  Neither  should  it  be  overheated 
by  running  ;  this  sends  the  blood  to  the  capillaries  ;  and  the 
flesh  which  is  filled  with  it  is  not  only  much  darker  from 
the  superabundance  of  venous  blood,  but  the  meat  is  ren- 
dered putrescent  by  it.  Butchers  have  sometimes  been 
obliged  to  throw  away  a  whole  beef,  from  its  having  been 
killed  after  severe  racing  ;  the  flesh  being  not  only  unfit  to 
eat,  but  commencing  to  putrefy  very  soon  after  life  was 
extinct. 


*See  lecture  on  "  Worms,"  by  F.  Spencer  Cobbold,  M.D.,  published  in 
London,  in  1872. 


PART  I.]  MEAT   AS   AN   ARTICLE    OF    DIET.  47 

It  will  readily  be  seen,  by  glancing  at  the  tables  given  at 
the  head  of  these  chapters,  that  all  meats  fall  far  below  the 
grains  in  nutritive  value.  Some  of  the  field  vegetables,  as 
sweet  and  Irish  potatoes,  artichokes  and  winter  squashes, 
contain  nearly  or  quite  as  much  solid  matter  as  meat,  and 
considerably  more  than  milk  ;  while  beans,  peas  and  lentils 
contain  about  three  times  as  much  as  ordinary  meat. 

Some  years  ago,  great  importance  was  attached  to  the 
fact  that  meats  contain  a  large  per  cent,  of  nitrogenous  sub- 
stances, these  being  considered  by  Liebig  and  others  as 
highly  essential  to  the  production  of  muscular  force.  This 
theory,  however  plausible,  has  of  later  years  been  disproved 
by  able  authorities,  as  Frankland,  Traube  and  others.  In- 
deed, Liebig  himself,  who  was  the  originator  of  the  doctrine, 
has  abandoned  it  altogether.  In  like  manner,  other  pet 
theories,  as  what  were  supposed  to  be  the  "  elements  of  res- 
piration," the  "  heat-forming  principles,"  etc.,  have  fallen  to 
the  ground,  or  at  least  lost  much  of  their  former  signifi- 
cance. The  more  rational  view  is  now  somewhat  favorably 
entertained,  that  whatever  is  best  suited  to  the  building  up 
of  the  various  structures  of  the  body,  or  in  other  words,  is 
capable  of  replacing  that  which  is  lost,  must  necessarily  be  pro- 
ductive of  vital  heat  and  vital  force,  these  being  generated  in 
the  normal  quantity.  The  late  E.  T.  Trail,  M.D.,  in  speaking  of 
the  doctrine  advanced  by  Liebig,  remarks  :  "  The  theory 
has  no  practical  value  in  dietetics,  for  the  reason  that  all 
the  elements  of  nutrition,  whether  heat-forming,  or  flesh- 
forming,  or  bone-forming,  are  sufficiently  distributed,  and 
nearly  equally  so,  throughout  all  those  portions  of  both  the 
vegetable  and  animal  kingdom  that  man  ever  does  or  can 
employ  as  food." 

All  domestic  animals,  either  from  the  ignorance  or  negli- 
gence of  those  who  keep  them,  or  from  other  causes,  are 
liable  to  be  diseased  ;  this  is  particularly  true  in  those  stock- 
raising  districts  that  are  adjacent  to  cities.     The  animals  are 


48  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I, 

largely  swill-fed  from  "breweries  ;  and  owing  to  the  increased 
value  of  land  in  these  vicinities,  they  have  less  territory  to 
roam  over  or  feed  upon.  By  a  careful  perusal  of  the 
Beports  made  to  the  Department  of  Agriculture  at  Wash- 
ington, it  is  easy  to  arrive  at  the  following  facts,  viz.  :  That 
all  domestic  animals,  as  horses,  cattle,  hogs,  sheep,  and  even 
poultry,  are  subject  to  disease,  those  in  some  localities  being 
freer  from  it  than  others.  That  next  to  hogs,  fowls  are 
most  liable  to  be  affected.  That  there  are  various  diseases 
among  hogs,  the  most  fatal  being  that  of  hog-cholera. 
That  the  mortality  from  this  cause  alone  is  enormous,  some 
counties  in  certain  of  the  States  losing  as  high  as  80  per 
cent,  per  annum.  That  the  value  of  farm  animals  lost  to 
the  United  States  in  a  single  year  (1879)  exceeded  $16,000,- 
000.  That  about  two-thirds  of  this  loss  was  due  to  diseases 
among  swine.  That  these  diseases  prevailed  more  exten- 
sively in  the  Middle,  Southern  and  Western  States  than  in 
the  Northern  or  Eastern.  Improper  food,  insufficient 
housing,  and  lack  of  clean  surroundings,  seem  to  be  the  chief 
causes  of  disease  among  animals. 

Pork-Eating. 

If  there  is  a  practice  in  all  Christendom  that  deserves  the 
censure  of  this  enlightened  age,  it  is  that  of  eating  swine's 
flesh.  Away  back  in  the  twilight  of  the  ages,  before  Chris- 
tianity had  been  dreamed  of,  there  were  people  upon  the 
earth  who,  for  sanitary  reasons,  if  for  no  other,  declined  to 
touch  the  unclean  thing. 

But  we,  who  live  in  the  light  of  the  nineteenth  century, 
who  boast  of  our  refinement,  our  intuitive  perceptions,  and 
our  clear-headed  forethought,  who  have  all  the  wisdom  of 
the  centuries  behind  us, — we  do  not  hesitate  to  take  into 
our  stomachs  that  which  the  Hebrew  shoved  from  his  table 
thousands  of  years  ago,  banishing  its  very  presence  by  the 
strong  arm  of  the  law.     We,  forsooth,  are  a  wise  people! 


PART  I.]  PORK-EATING.  49 

What  care  we  for  certain  legal  enactments  enforced  by  the 
Jewish  leader,  far  back  in  history  ?  True,  our  children  die 
of  scrofula,  entire  families  having  often  been  swept  off  with 
consumption ;  erysipelas  appears  in  divers  forms,  and 
diphtheria  (the  legitimate  result  of  foul  feeding  or  foul  air) 
is  growing  more  and  more  common  every  year.  Not  only 
so  ;  there  are  every  now  and  then  sudden  and  almost  tragic 
deaths  from  trichinosis,  whole  families  being  the  victims. 
But  so  far,  these  things  fail  to  alarm  us  ;  and  though  statistics 
show  that  diseases  are  multiplying  among  the  swine  them- 
selves, killing  them  annually  by  the  hundreds  of  thousands, 
we  take  comparatively  little  heed.  Of  the  twenty  million 
dollars'  worth  of  hogs  in  the  United  States  that  were  sick  in 
1877,  about  59  per  cent.  died.  Has  any  one  thought  to  inquire 
what  became  of  the  41  per  cent,  that  recovered? 

If,  in  the  olden  time,  swine's  flesh  in  its  normal  con- 
dition was  not  fit  for  a  Jew,  can  we,  in  these  days,  make 
that  which  has  survived  the  ravages  of  hog-cholera,  hog- 
fever,  etc.,  suitable  for  a  Christian?  It  is  said  that  Dr. 
Adam  Clarke — who  evidently  had  an  antipathy  to  pork-eat- 
ing— having  once  been  called  upon  to  say  grace  at  a  barbecue, 
bowed  his  head  reverently,  and  uttered  these  words  :  "  O 
Lord,  if  Thou  canst  bless  under  the  Gospel  what  Thou  didst 
curse  under  the  law,  do  Thou  bless  this  pig." 

The  hog  is  a  scavenger  by  nature,  and  by  practice  ;  it  is 
iris  proper  mission  on  this  earth,  not  to  be  eaten,  but  to  eat 
up  that  which  the  nobler  animals  disdain  to  touch.  Indeed, 
he  adapts  himself  to  circumstances,  devouring  whatever  comes 
in  his  way.  He  is  equally  well  pleased  with  the  clean  ears 
of  corn,  or  the  seething  contents  of  the  swill-pail ;  he  will 
dine  on  live  chickens,  or  devour  carrion.  Nothing  is  too 
fine  or  too  foul  to  suit  his  undiscriminating  palate  ;  he  has 
been  called  "the  scavenger-in-chief  of  all  the  back-boned 
animals.'*  Truly  he  is  omnivorous.  And  yet,  bad  as  the  hog 
is,  it  is  not  absolutely  impossible  to  improve  his  condition. 


50  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

Put  him  where  he  can  not  get  refuse  matter,  where  he  will 
have  only  nuts,  grains,  etc.,  to  feed  upon,  and  he  will  readily 
conform,  for  the  time  being,  to  his  better  surroundings  ; 
and  in  process  of  time  his  flesh  would  be  improved  in 
quality.  But  his  nature  no  man  can  change  ;  give  him  his 
former  haunts,  and  he  will  at  once  fall  into  his  old  ways. 
You  can  not  educate  him. 

Will  any  one  give  a  reason  why  intelligent  people  should 
eat  him,  and  from  choice  ?  If  we  must  dine  on  our  fellow- 
creatures  below  us,  are  there  not  decent,  clean-feeding 
animals,  as  the  ox,  and  the  sheep,  that  we  could  take  in 
preference  ? 

In  a  sanitary  point  of  view  the  condition  of  the  hog,  in 
his  best  estate,  is  not  flattering.  His  scurvy  hide  (which  is 
perhaps  the  cleanest  part  of  him),  his  foul  breath,  and  his 
filthy  feeding  habits — are  not  these  enough  to  bar  him  from 
our  tables  ?  Or  must  we  wait  for  such  logical  sequence  as 
is  sure  to  follow  the  violation  of  physiological  law  ?  Wait 
till  diseases  are  multiplied  in  kind,  and  intensified  in  char- 
acter, till  we  are  fairly  driven  from  the  no  longer  question- 
able provender?  Wait  till  our  nearest  friend  is  stricken 
with  supposed  typhoid  fever,  and  dead  of  veritable  trich- 
inosis? There  can  be  no  doubt  that  many  persons  have 
sickened  and  a  number  died,  of  what  was  thought  to  be 
typhoid  fever,  when  really  the  disease  was  due  to  the 
presence  of  these  parasites  (the  trichinae)*  in  the  system  ; 
for  the  symptoms  in  the  two  diseases  are  quite  similar. 

As  stated  in  the  last  chapter,  one  of  the  principal  objec- 
tions to  the  use  of  animal  flesh  as  food,  is  the  fact  that  it  is 
tilled  with  the  debris  of  the  vital  organism,  working  its  way 
through  the  capillaries  into  the  various  excretions,  and  out 
of  the  domain  of  life.  Now,  if  this  effete  matter  is  objec- 
tionable, even  in  clean-feeding  animals,  what  must  be  its 


*  Trichinae  are  said  to  be  found  in  the  ox  and  sheep,  as  well  as  in  the  hog. 


PART  I.]  PORK-EATING.  51 

condition  as  it  is  thrown  off  from  the  tissues  of  scav- 
engers? And  what  the  nature  of  the  tissues  themselves, 
when  they  are  not  only  made  out  of,  and  nourished  by  a 
diet  of  garbage,  but  are  thoroughly  saturated  with  the 
almost  putrescent  matters  with  which  -the  venous  blood  is 
laden  ?  It  is  a  fact  which  we  seem  rather  slow  to  recog- 
nize, that  the  quality  of  all  animal  tissues  partakes  of  the 
character  of  the  materials  out  of  which  they  are  made.  In  other 
words,  if  we  expect  sound  bodies  with  good  firm  tissues, 
we  must  look  to  the  nature  of  the  food  we  eat. 

Animal  foods,  of  all  others,  should,  if  eaten,  be  selected 
with  the  utmost  care  ;  the  animals  themselves  should  be 
well  fed,  well  housed  in  winter,  and  allowed  to  graze  from 
open  pastures  in  summer.  No  animal  or  fowl  should  ever 
be  stall-fed,  or  sty-fed  ;  and  none  with  carnivorous  or  om- 
nivorous habits,  should  be  used  as  food.  The  creature  whose 
characteristics  we  are  at  present  discussing,  combines  in 
his  personality  too  many  bad  qualities  to  give  him  a  decent 
passport  to  our  tables.  He  is  of  low  organization,  and 
naturally  filthy  in  his  habits  ;  he  is  desperately  foul  in  his 
feeding,  is  often  kept  and  fattened  in  a  close,  dirty  pig-sty, 
and  as  might  be  expected,  he  is  specially  subject  to  disease.* 
And  yet  the  hog  is  found  in  every  market  in  this  country, 
and  in  Europe  ;  though  recently  the  German  and  Austrian 
markets  have  forbidden  American  pork  ;  and  other  nations5  it 
is  said,  have  the  matter  under  advisement. 

Nor  must  it  be  supposed  for  a  moment  that  the  use  of 
pork  is  at  all  limited  to  the  few,  or  to  the  very  poor  among 
our  people.  There  is  scarcely  one  family  in  twenty  that 
does  not  partake  of  it  in  one  form  or  another.  The  hams, 
the  shoulders,  the  side-meat,  the  pickied  souse  (head-cheese), 


*  Dr.  Jas.  C.  Jackson  makes  the  statement  based,  he  says,  on  information 
derived  from  the  pork-dealers  of  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  that  "  ninety-five  hog-s 
in  one  hundred  have  ulcers  on  their  livers  from  the  size  of  *ra  ounce 
bullet  to  a  hen's  egg." 


52  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

the  stuffed  sausages — every  part  is  in  demand.  Pickled 
pigs'  feet  are  considered  a  rare  delicacy;  and  hogs'  brains 
make  another  "  dainty  dish."  But  it  is  left  for  the  very 
bon-ton  of  society  to  sit  down  to  what  is  called  beef  a-la-mode; 
which  is  simply  a  beef  roast  plugged  full  of  fat  pork,  along 
with  innumerable  spices,  etc. 

Nor  is  it  enough  that  we  devour  the  several  parts  of  the 
animal,  even  to  his  liver  and  kidneys;  we  strip  the  intestines 
of  their  fat,  melt  it  down,  and  use  it  in  the  form  of  lard. 
This  latter  is  the  very  quintessence  of  the  swine;  it  is  the 
diseased  product  of  all  his  filthy  feeding;  and  it  is  this  arti- 
cle that  forms  a  staple  in  almost  every  American  family.  It 
shortens  the  biscuits,  the  plain  cakes,  and  the  pastries;  and 
it  even  finds  its  way  into  the  loaf  bread !  It  oils  the  bake- 
pans,  it  fries  the  drop-cakes,  the  doughnuts,  the  Saratoga 
potatoes,  and  all  the  other  "  fried  things,"  or  nearly  all.  In 
short,  there  is  neither  breakfast,  dinner  nor  supper  without 
it,  in  some  form  or  other. 

Do  the  people  wonder  that  they  are  afflicted  with  scrofula; 
and  that  it  crops  out,  full-fledged,  in  a  single  generation  ? 
Oh  for  a  Moses  among  the  Gentiles,  to  forbid  them,  by  legal 
enactment,  the  use  of  this  vile  thing,  swine's  flesh ! 

The  late  E.  T.  Trail,  M.D.,  in  discussing  the  quality  of 
animal  foods  in  his  Hydropathic  Encyclopedia,  says:  "  Of 
the  hog,  whose  filthy  carcass  is  converted  into  a  mass  of 
disease  by  the  ordinary  fattening  process,  I  need  only  ex- 
press my  abhorrence.  Although  swine's  flesh  and  grease, 
under  the  names  of  pork  and  lard,  are  staple  and  favorite 
articles  of  food  throughout  Christendom,  common  observa- 
tion has  long  since  traced  the  prevalence  of  scrofula,  erysip- 
elas, and  a  variety  of  glandular  and  eruptive  diseases 
resulting  from  impure  blood,  to  their  general  employment. 
If  there  are  any  animals  which  should  be  exterminated  from 
the  earth,  mad  dogs  and  fatted  hogs  are  among  them." 


PABT  I.J  MILK.  53 

Milk. 

Many  persons  who  discard  meat,  do  not  hesitate  to  par~ 
take  freely  of  milk,  eggs,  sugar,  butter,  etc.,  and  to  use 
pastries,  cakes  and  puddings,  that  are  little  else  than  a  com- 
bination of  these,  with  the  addition,  it  may  be,  of  spices  and 
other  seasonings.  Now,  a  plain  diet  of  Graham  bread  with 
beef  or  mutton,  roasted  or  boiled,  and  a  fair  allowance  of 
fruits  and  vegetables,  would  be  much  more  wholesome  than 
the  above  articles,  or  the  dishes  that  are  manufactured  out 
of  them. 

As  to  milk,  it  is  the  natural  diet  for  the  young.  But  f  01 
grown  persons,  and  especially  for  those  who  live  in  cities, 
or  who  incline  to  sedentary  habits,  it  is  not  the  best,  or  one 
of  the  best  articles  of  diet.  Before  arguing  the  question, 
however,  let  us  make  a  note  of  the  fact  that  milk  is  one  of 
those  secretions  that  is  readily  affected,  not  only  by  the  food 
the  animal  eats,  but  by  the  conditions,  physical  or  mental, 
of  the  creature  itself.  If  the  health  of  the  cow  deviates 
from  the  normal  standard,  the  character  of  the  milk  is  im- 
mediately changed;  if  she  is  mentally  disturbed,  as  by  anger 
or  fright,  the  mammary  glands  will  secrete,  not  a  whole- 
some, but  a  poisonous  fluid.  A  mother  not  unfrequently 
kills  her  child,  or  throws  it  into  spasms,  by  nursing  it  after 
she  has  been  badly  frightened,  or  after  a  violent  fit  of  anger; 
and  many  a  child  has  been  "  salivated,  purged  and  narcotized, 
by  mercury,  drastic  purgatives  and  opiates,  respectively 
administered  to  the  mother."  * 

But  the  question  is  asked,  "  Suppose  the  animal  is  kept 
in  the  best  possible  condition,  every  way;  would  milk  be 
objected  to  as  an  article  of  diet  ?  "  Most  assuredly  not — for 
young  calves.  Nature  has  provided  the  very  food  that  is 
needed,  for  all  her  babes.  The  milk  of  the  cow,  like  that  of 
other  mammals,  including  the  human,  is  intended  for  the 


*  Pavy's  "Food  and  Dietetics. 


54  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  L 

nourishment  of  the  infant;  and  as  soon  as  the  calf  is  able  to 
take  more  solid  food,  the  maternal  supplies,  where  nature 
is  not  perverted,  are  dried  up.  But  the  unnatural  practice 
of  milking  cows  has  distended  the  milk  glands,  and  thus 
converted  them,  in  a  large  measure,  into  depurating  organs; 
and  the  milk  supply  is  not  only  increased,  but  prolonged 
beyond  the  period  that  nature  intended.  Add  to  this  the 
improper  foods,  as  swill-feeding,  the  confined  air,  and  other 
unhealthful  conditions  with  which  the  animal  is  surround- 
ed, particularly  in  large  cities,  and  we  have  not  only  a  pro- 
lific source  of  disease,  but  an  explanation,  in  part  at  least, 
of  the  enormous  death-rate  among  young  children;  this,  it 
will  be  noticed,  is  always  largest  in  cities,  where  the  milk 
used  is  poorer  in  quality  than  country  milk. 

But  returning  to  the  direct  question,  suppose  we  have 
the  best  of  milk,  from  perfectly  healthy  cows,  what  is  the 
real  objection  to  its  use?  To  this  question  there  are  two 
answers  ;  the  first  is  founded  on  experience,  and  may  be 
stated  as  follows  :  It  is  the  almost  universal  testimony  of 
persons  of  sedentary  habits,  dark  complexions  and  "  bilious 
temperaments,"  that  milk,  even  of  good  quality,  does  not 
agree  with  them  ;  and  where  there  is  torpor  of  the  liver,  or 
other  dyspeptic  conditions,  it  usually  causes  distress.  The 
reason  of  this  will  directly  appear.  As  already  stated  (and 
herein  is  the  second  answer),  milk  is  designed  by  nature  for 
the  young  of  all  mammals  ;  it  contains  a  small  per  cent,  of 
solid  substances,  but  enough  for  the  needs  of  the  infant ; 
and  these  substances  are  just  the  elements,  and  in  the  right 
proportions,  to  make  those  soft,  fatty  tissues  which  the  little 
creature  needs  for  the  protection  of  its  small  bones  and 
delicate  organs.  As  the  child  or  young  animal  grows,  and 
the  teeth  develop,  other  and  more  solid  materials  should 
take  the  place  of  the  milk  ;  this  change  must,  of  course,  be 
gradual.  Many  mothers  do  their  babes  harm,  and  in  fact 
make  them  sick,  by  giving  them  solid  food  before  they  are 


/>ART  I.]  BUTTER   AND    EGGS.  55 

able  to  masticate  it  properly.  And  no  less  detriment  is 
done  to  the  full-grown  child,  when  we  give  him  an  aliment 
that  requires  no  mastication  with  the  teeth,  and  which  is 
designed  only  to  make  soft,  "  baby  tissue."  Such  food  is 
now  needed  as  will  make  good,  firm  muscles,  sinewy  ten- 
dons, strong  bones,  and  all  the  other  tissues  that  belong  to 
the  adult  man  or  woman. 

"But  how  about  cream?"  Well,  cream,  if  used  to  the 
same  extent,  would  perhaps  be  more  injurious  than  milk  ; 
it  contains  an  abundance  of  fatty  material,  and  if  habitually 
taken  is  a  prolific  cause  of  biliousness.  Young  children 
that  are  fed  largely  upon  cream — or  butter,  or  meat,  par- 
ticularly fat  meat — become  gross  and  plethoric,  and  are  apt 
to  break  out  with  boils,  or  "scald-head";  or  if  a  nursing- 
mother  uses  these  articles  to  excess,  her  child  will  suffer  in 
consequence.  Ordinarily,  cream  does  less  harm  than  milk, 
from  the  simple  fact  that  it  is  served  in  a  very  limited  quan- 
tity ;  that  is,  as  a  condiment,  rather  than  a  beverage  ;  and  it 
is  less  employed  than  milk,  even  as  a  mixing  material  in 
breads,  puddings,  etc.  For  grains,  mushes,  plain  puddings, 
etc.,  the  juices  of  fruits  make  a  far  more  wholesome  dress- 
ing than  cream  ;  and  were  we  in  the  habit  of  using  fruits  in 
this  way,  the  palate  would  not  only  tolerate  readily  the  new 
combination,  but  we  should  come  to  like  it. 

Milk,  if  used,  should  be  taken,  not  as  a  beverage,  but  as 
a  condiment,  and  then  very  sparingly,  particularly  by  those 
persons  who  live  in  cities  and  whose  work  is  indoors  and  of 
a  sedentary  character  ;  while  invalids,  as  a  rule,  would  cer- 
tainly be  better  without  it. 

Butter  and  Eggs. 

If  we  dispense  with  milk — that  is,  leave  it  to  the  calf,  for 
whom  nature  intended  it — there  will,  of  necessity,  be  no 
butter  ;  and,  in  a  sanitary  point  of  view,  the  absence  of  it 
would  perhaps  be  no  great  loss,  it  being  by  no  means  as 


56  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  I. 

wholesome  an  article  of  diet  as  either  milk  or  cream.  Like 
other  oils,  it  is,  to  a  certain  degree,  indigestible  ;  not  that 
it  gives  a  "pain  in  the  stomach,"  as  a  general  thing,  but  it 
does  not  enter  into  those  vital  changes  which  are  necessary 
to  convert  food  into  chyle  proper.  It  mixes  with  the  pan- 
creatic juice  in  the  form  of  an  emulsion  simply,  and  goes 
into  the  blood  in  that  crude  condition  ;  and  being  carried 
through  the  system  by  the  capillaries,  it  is  deposited  as  fat 
in  the  various  tissues,  and  largely  in  the  skin.  From  the 
very  nature  of  its  constituents,  butter  has  little  nutritive 
value  in  it ;  it  usually  contains  3  to  5  per  cent,  of  casein 
(due  to  the  presence  of  milk),  and  about  twice  that  amount 
of  water  ;  the  other  substances  are  oils,  fixed  and  volatile. 
These  readily  decompose  on  exposure  to  the  atmosphere, 
and  butyric  and  other  fat  acids  are  set  free. 

Persons  who  live  largely  upon  butter  emit  a  strong  odor 
from  the  skin,  very  perceptible  to  those  who  do  not  use 
animal  foods.  The  salt  which  has  to  be  mixed  with  it  to  make 
it  "  keep,"  is  not,  to  the  hygienist,  a  desirable  addition,  for 
reasons  which  will  hereafter  be  stated.  Pereira  says : 
"  Fixed  oil  or  fat  is  more  difficult  of  digestion,  and  more 
obnoxious  to  the  stomach,  than  any  other  alimentary  prin- 
ciple. Indeed,  in  some  more  or  less  obvious  or  concealed 
form,  I  believe  it  will  be  found  the  offending  ingredient  in 
nine-tenths  of  the  dishes  which  disturb  weak  stomachs. 
Many  dyspeptics  who  have  most  religiously  avoided  the  use 
of  oil  or  fat  in  its  obvious  or  ordinary  state  (asfat  meat, 
marrow,  butter  and  oil),  unwittingly  employ  it  in  some  more 
concealed  form,  and  as  I  have  frequently  witnessed,  have 
suffered  therefrom.  Such  individuals  should  eschew  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  livers  (of  quadrupeds,  poultry  and  fish),  and 
brains,  all  of  which  abound  in  oily  matter.  Milk,  and  es- 
pecially  cream,  disagrees  with  many  persons,  or,  as  they 
term  it,  '  lies  heavy  at  the  stomach/  in  consequence  of  the 
butter  it  contains.  Rich  cheese,  likewise,  contains  butter, 
and  on  that  account  is  apt  to  disturb  the  stomach.* 


PART  I.J  SUGAR.  57 

Schlickeysen,  in  speaking  of  the  use  of  butter,  eggs  and 
cheese,  remarks  :  "  These  cause  an  excess  of  fat  in  the 
system,  and  an  offensive,  slimy  condition  of  the  mucous 
secretions  in  the  mouth  and  nose,  quite  apparent  to  those 
who,  contrary  to  their  usual  habit,  eat  of  them.  Their 
effects  are  often  apparent  also  in  eruptions  upon  the  skin, 
especially  upon  the  face." 

Eggs  are  pretty  generally  conceded  to  be  a  "  bilious  diet "; 
and  if  eaten  freely  at  each  meal  for  a  few  weeks,  the  whites 
of  the  eyes  usually  show  the  presence  of  bile.  The  albu- 
men (whites  of  the  eggs)  cooked  soft,  would  be  less  objec- 
tionable than  the  yolks,  which  contain  about  30  per  cent,  of 
oil.  If  eggs  are  eaten  they  should  be  fresh,  their  use  not 
too  frequent,  and  confined  to  cool  weather.  The  fowls 
should  be  allowed  plenty  of  clean  territory  to  roam  over, 
and  an  abundance  of  fresh  water,  pure  air,  and  good  grains. 
Unfortunately,  the  habits  of  the  bird  are  none  the  cleanest ; 
it  will  pick  up  and  eat  almost  anything  that  comes  in  its 
way.  This  is  why  country  eggs  and  country  fowls  (pro- 
vided there  are  good  and  healthful  surroundings),  are 
always  to  be  preferred.  In  towns  and  cities,  the  chickens 
are  necessarily  confined  to  the  house  and  yard  ;  whereas, 
in  the  country  they  have  access  to  the  open  fields,  and  feed 
largely  on  grains. 

Persons  who  are  subject  to  torpor  of  the  liver,  would  do 
well  to  refrain  from  the  use  of  either  eggs  or  butter  ;  and 
those  who  have  sound  livers — and  desire  to  keep  them  so— 
can  take  a  hint. 

SUGAH. 

Hygienists  have  no  objection  to  the  use  of  saccharine 
matter,  all  that  the  vital  economy  requires,  provided  it  is 
taken  in  the  natural  way  ;  that  is,  in  organic  combination 
with  the  other  food  principles, — not  separated  as  a  proximate 
element.     In  other  words,  the  saccharine  substances  con- 


58  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  L 

tained  in  fruits,  grains  and  vegetables,  are  thoroughly  whole- 
some, so  long  as  we  get  them  simply  by  eating  these  natural 
products.  But  when  we  separate  them  into  starch,  sugar, 
oil  and  the  other  proximate  principles,  and  think  to  take 
these  as  foods  proper,  or  in  combination  with  them,  we 
make  a  serious  mistake.  And  were  we  to  reduce  all  our 
foods  to  their  proximate  elements,  and  then  try  the  experi- 
ment of  living  upon  them,  we  should  in  the  end  meet  the 
fate  of  "  Megendie's  dog." 

"  But,"  say  you,  "  we  do  not  wish  to  confine  ourselves  to 
these  things — the  proximate  elements — we  only  desire  to 
use  them  in  combination  with  other  substances."  Very 
true  ;  but  the  point  is  just  here  :  if  the  proximate  elements, 
taken  collectively  (after  they  have  once  been  separated  from 
the  alimentary  substances  to  which  they  belong),  are  in- 
capable of  supporting  animal  life,  then  they  must  be  worth- 
less individually,  no  matter  how  small  the  quantity  in  which 
we  use  them.  If  the  proximate  principles  of  food,  combine 
them  as  we  may  with  each  other,  lead  to  certain  death, 
then  it  is  plain  that  we  must  look  for  sustenance,  not  from 
these,  but  to  those  organized  materials  known  to  be  capable 
of  replacing  the  wasted  tissues.  And  if  any  one  desires  a  test 
in  this  matter,  let  him  try  the  experiment  of  making,  say 
half  his  meals  for  three  weeks,  provided  he  can  hold  out  so 
long,  out  of  as  many  of  the  proximate  principles  of  food  as 
he  may  select,  and  see  how  he  thrives  during  that  period. 
Before  the  time  is  one-quarter  expired  he  will  be  tired 
enough  of  starch,  sugar,  oil,  fibrin,  albumen,  casein,  etc., 
and  he  will  long  for  the  foods  proper,  in  undisturbed 
organic  combination,  in  place  of  the  miserable  trash  which 
he  has  been  attempting  to  live  upon. 

Since,  then,  these  proximate  principles  can  not  support 
animal  life,  may  we  not  reasonably  expect  that  any  consid- 
erable proportion  of  one  or  more  of  them,  taken  habitually 
with  the  food,  would  produce  abnormal  conditions  of  the 


PART    I.]  SUGAR.  59 

body  ?  What  are  the  facts  in  the  case  ?  Take,  if  you 
please,  the  article  under  consideration,  viz.,  sugar  ;  and  let 
us  select  the  pure  white  crystals,  in  order  to  have  as  little 
organized  or  extraneous  matter  in  it  as  possible.  Try 
taking  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  this  each  night  on  going 
to  bed  ;  and  if  you  wish  you  may  repeat  the  "  dose  "  in  the 
morning  on  rising.  How  long,  think  you,  will  it  require  to 
create  a  "  bad  taste"  in  the  mouth,  cause  soreness  in  the 
liver  and  constipation  of  the  bowels?  Try  it.  A  teaspoon - 
ful  of  white  sugar  put  into  enough  milk  or  water  to  dissolve 
it,  and  given  to  a  young  babe,  the  quantity  being  repeated 
two  or  three  times  each  day,  would  very  soon  derange  its 
digestion,  causing  severe  constipation. 

Another  experiment  easily  tried  is  to  double  or  treble  the 
amount  of  sugar  usually  taken  in  the  food,  and  note  its 
effects.  It  will  be  seen  that  the  increased  quantity  creates 
thirst,  or  in  other  words,  slight  inflammation  of  the  mucous 
surfaces  of  the  alimentary  canal ;  and  if  the  digestion  is 
ordinarily  none  too  good,  the  sugar  will  most  likely  cause 
headache  and  other  symptoms  of  indigestion. 

Xow,  any  substance  that  cannot  be  taken  habitually,  in 
the  small  quantity  of  say  half  a  gill — not  even  on  an  empty 
stomach — withot  causing  abnormal  conditions  of  the  body, 
must,  to  say  the  least,  be  set  down  as  of  little  value,  dictet- 
ically  considered  ;  and  it  is  pretty  safe  to  conclude  that  the 
less  one  uses  of  such  an  article,  the  better.  No  family  of 
ordinary  size  can  consume  "  barrels  of  sugar  "  in  a  year, 
nor  half  barrels,  without  detriment  to  the  stomachs  of  its 
individual  members  ;  .  the  difficulty,  however,  is  usually 
traced  to  any  but  the  right  cause.  It  is  quite  common  for 
persons  who  suffer,  for  instance,  with  periodic  sick-head- 
ache, to  affirm  that  what  they  eat  has  nothing  whatever  to 
do  with  it  ;  that  the  headache  is  inherited  from  father  or 
mother.  Did  they  ever  think  to  inquire  what  gave  it  to  the 
father  or  mother  ?     So  much  easier  is  it  to  put  the  causes 


60  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

behind  us,  out  of  our  reach,  than  to  correct  our  own  bad 
habits. 

"  But  how  can  we  do  without  sugar  ?  "  you  ask.  Why, 
easily  enough,  at  least  as  a  rule  ;  even  the  acid  fruits,  a& 
strawberries,  cherries,  etc.,  if  fully  ripened,  are  sweet 
enough  for  the  unperverted  palate.  And  if  these  fruits 
come  to  our  markets  a  little  green,  we  can  at  least  be  con- 
tent to  add  only  so  much  sugar  as  will  make  them  as  sweet 
as  fully  ripened  fruit  ;  this  amount  you  will  find  to  be  very 
little.  Some  hygienists  cook  sweet  and  sour  fruits  together  ; 
preferring  to  make  the  one  kind  sweeten  the  other,  rather 
than  to  use  sugar.  Whether  this  plan  is  at  all  times  practi- 
cable, is  a  question  elsewhere  considered  in  this  work.  The 
fact  that  much  of  the  sugar  of  commerce  is  largely  adulter- 
ated, is  another  argument  against  its  use  ;  a  great  deal  of 
what  is  sold  in  the  market  under  that  name,  is  glucose. 
Whether  this  substance  is  more  or  less  injurious  than  cane 
sugar  (it  is  certainly  less  sweet),  might  be  a  matter  of  some 
importance,  dietetically  considered.  One  thing  is  sure, 
both  are  proximate  elements,  and  as  such  are  incapable  of 
sustaining  animal  life. 

The  habit  which  some  have  of  sweetening  cooked  grains 
and  breadstuff s,  is  a  foolish  and  most  unnatural  practice; 
they  are  sweet  enough  of  themselves;  and  if  we  were  to 
train  our  children  to  eat  these  foods  without  sugar,  they 
would  not  want  it.*  The  fact  is,  we  like  the  saccharine  con- 
diment in  just  those  dishes  in  which  we  have  been  taught  to 
eat  it,  and  in  no  others.  For  example,  we  do  not  want  sugar 
in  mashed  potato,  cauliflower,  or  string  beans,  any  more 


*  "  Sir  Anthony  Carlisle  relates  an  anecdote  from  his  experience  among 
the  Arctic  inhabitants  :  '  The  most  northern  races  of  mankind,'  he  says, 
'  were  found  to  be  unacquainted  with  the  taste  of  sweets,  and  their  in- 
fants made  wry  faces,  and  sputtered  out  sugar  with  disgust ;  but  the  little 
urchins  grinned  with  ecstasy  at  the  sight  of  a  bit  of  whale's  blubber.'  " — 
Pavy's  "  Food  and  Dietetics,"  page  412. 


PART  I.J  SALT.  61 

than  we  would  relish  salt  or  pepper  in  strawberries,  stewed 
plums,  or  apple  sauce.  In  other  words,  habit  enables  us  to 
relish  what  we  would  otherwise  barely  tolerate. 

Salt. 

The  fact  that  chloride  of  sodium,  or  common  salt,  is 
ordinarily  found  in  the  secretions  and  excretions  of  the 
human  body,  and  also  in  the  blood,  has  given  rise  to  the 
belief  that  it  is  a  necessary  constituent  in  human  food.  And 
some  physiologists  have  gone  so  far  as  to  make  the  state- 
ment that  it  must  be  eaten,  or  the  general  health  will  suffer. 
Admitting,  for  the  sake  of  the  argument,  that  salt  is  one  of 
the  proximate  principles  legitimately  obtained  from  the 
tissues  of  the  human  body,  and  that  it  is  therefore  indis- 
pensable in  the  vital  economy,  the  question  arises,  why  we 
should  eat  it,  any  more  than  that  we  should  eat  chloride  of 
potassium,  or  carbonate  of  lime,  or  phosphate  of  magnesia. 
They,  too,  are  found  in  the  bones,  and  are  obtainable  from 
them;  then  why  not  eat  these?  The  reply  is,  that  there  is 
no  need;  that  the  grains  and  other  food  products  of  the 
earth  contain  all  the  elements  necessary  to  make  these  several 
constituents.  This  is  very  true;  and  it  is  equally  true  that 
the  products  named  contain  the  other  proximate  principles 
— all  of  them — that  are  found  in  the  human  body  in  its 
normal  condition. 

In  dealing  with  this,  the  physiological  argument,  we  may 
as  well  recognize  the  fact  that  the  chloride  of  sodium  found 
in  the  perspiration  or  other  excretions,  and  also  in  the 
saliva,  milk,  tears,  and  other  secreted  fluids,  as  well  as  in 
the  blood,  is  largely  if  not  wholly  due  to  the  presence  of  the 
salt  taken  with  the  food;  and  the  fact  that  it  is  found  in 
these  fluids  is  no  proof  whatever  that  it  belongs  there.  "We 
can  easily  put  into  the  stomach,  whiskey,  sulphur,  iodine, 
strychnine,  almost  any  thing,  and  afterward  find  these  sub- 
stances in  the  blood,  and  in  most  or  all  of  the  secretions  or 


62  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  L 

excretions  of  the  body.  Persons  who  live  without  salt  find 
that  the  perspiration,  tears,  saliva,  and  also  the  blood,  lose 
their  saline  taste,  even  in  a  few  weeks  or  months.  And  if 
we  were  to  select  for  experiment  those  wild  animals  known 
to  live  without  salt,  as  rabbits,  squirrels,  etc.,  it  might  be  a 
question  whether  anything  short  of  a  destructive  analysis 
of  their  tissues  would  reveal  the  presence  of  actual  chloride 
of  sodium. 

But  suppose  we  should  find  it ;  what  would  this  prove  ? 
Simply  that  the  vital  organism  has  the  power  to  create 
out  of  the  foods  furnished  from  the  natural  products  of  the 
soil  those  substances  which  it  needs  in  the  vital  economy  ; 
and  if  it  has  this  power  in  the  wild  animals,  the  presumption 
is  that  the  same  power  is  not  wanting,  either  in  domestic 
animals  or  human  beings. 

But  it  has  been  said  that  experience  is,  after  all,  the  best 
test  in  these  matters  ;  and  that  it  is  well  known  that  not 
only  human  beings,  but  the  domestic  animals,  require  salt 
to  keep  them  in  healthful  conditions.  This  latter  statement 
is  pure  assumption — nothing  more — the  facts  being  on  the 
other  side.  And  the  still  more  extravagant  assertion,  viz., 
that  disease  and  death  will  follow  the  leaving  off  of  salt  is  with- 
out a  shadow  of  truth  in  it.  There  probably  never  was  a  time 
in  the  world's  history  when  there  were  not  people  who  lived 
and  thrived  without  it,  and  also  without  meat.  Certain  it  is, 
that  there  are  such  at  the  present  day,  both  in  savage  and 
civilized  life.  But  so  much  has  habit  to  do  with  our 
opinions,  that  there  is  perhaps  not  one  person  in  ten  who 
does  not  believe  that  salt  is  absolutely  essential  to  the 
health,  and  even  comfort,  of  the  domestic  animals.*     The 


*  Dr.  Graham,  in  his  "  Science  of  Human  Life,"  says  :  "  It  is  a  little  re- 
markable that  some  have  contended  for  the  necessity  of  salt  as  an  article 
in  the  diet  of  man,  to  counteract  the  putrescent  tendency  of  animal  food 
or  flesh-meat,  when  there  is*  not  a  carnivorous  animal  in  nature  that  even 
uses  a  particle  of  it ;  and  few,  if  any,  of  the  purely  flesh-eating  portions  of 


PART  I.]  SALT.  63 

fact  in  the  ease  is  simply  this  :  nearly  all  these  animals — 
at  least  in  the  United  States — have  been  trained  to  the  use 
of  it  (as  will  presently  be  shown),  just  as  human  beings 
have  been ;  and  the  probability  is  that  not  one  of  them 
would  touch  the  article  if  its  taste  had  not  been  already 
perverted. 

Any  American  who  has  visited  the  rural  districts  of  Scot- 
land for  the  first  time,  will  at  once  remark  that  the  horses, 
cattle  and  sheep,  are  among  the  finest  that  he  has  ever  seen  ; 
the  cattle  and  sheep  especially  are  far  superior  to  the 
average  of  them  in  this  country.  No  doubt  something  is 
due  to  the  better  and  more  humane  treatment  in  feeding 
and  housing  them  ;  these  fine  cattle,  sheep  and  horses,  how- 
ever, are  never  given  salt  The  only  cattle  in  the  Cheviot 
Hills  that  ever  taste  it  (and  no  doubt  the  rule  is  general 
throughout  the  country),  are  those  that  are  fattened  for  the 
market.  And  just  here  are  two  important  facts  to  be 
noted.*  One  is,  that  these  cattle  at  first  refuse  the  salt,  but 
by  sprinkling  it  lightly  over  the  food,  they  will,  rather  than 
starve,  eat  the  latter  with  the  sprinkle  of  salt  on  it ;  and 
finally  they  come  to  like  the  thing  itself.  The  other  fact  to 
make  a  note  of  is  this  :  their  owners  give  it  to  the  cattle  for 
the  purpose  of  making  them  eat  more  turnips.  In  other 
words,  by  creating  a  feverish  or  inflamed  condition  of  the 
stomach  (which  salt  will  do — and  all  the  more  if  the  animal 
is  unused  to  it),  the  cattle  gorge  themselves  with  the  juicy 
turnips  to  quench  their  thirst ;  they  also  drink  more  water, 
as  a  matter  of  course.  This  increased  feeding  causes  them 
to  lay  on  adipose  tissue  rapidly  ;  or  in  other  words,  it  pre- 
pares them  more  quickly  for  the  market. 


the  human  family  ever  use  it  in  any  measure  or  manner  ;  and  most  por- 
tions of  the  human  family  who  subsist  mostly  on  vegetable  food,  wholly 
abstain  from  it." 

*  These  facts  were  obtained  from  a  native  of  Scotland,  who  was  familiar 
with  the  raising  and  breeding  of  cattle,  and  other  farm  stock. 


64  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

The  horses  and  sheep,  as  before  stated,  never  taste  salt ; 
in  fact,  the  sheep  are  far  too  numerous  and  too  frisky,  as 
they  run  over  their  native  hills,  ever  to  be  "  salted  "  by  the 
shepherds  ;  and  they  are  perfect  paragons  in  physical  pro- 
portions, as  well  as  in  muscular  activity.  "  But,"  say  you, 
"they  get  it,  from  living  so  near  the  sea  ;  from  the  grass, 
and  the  air"  Kidiculous  !  The  air  of  Scotland  is  as  free 
from  saline  properties  as  it  is  in  this  country  ;  and  so  is  the 
grass  on  the  Cheviots.  The  salt  in  the  sea  is  not  "  evap- 
orated "  into  the  air  ;  neither  is  it  "  deposited  "  in  the  soil 
that  covers  those  great  masses  of  uplifted  rock,  known  as 
the  "  hills  of  bonny  Scotland."  It  has  been  stated  that  the 
farmers  in  Kentucky  who  raise  fine  horses,  made  the  dis- 
covery years  ago,  that  by  leaving  off  the  use  of  salt  their 
horses  thrived  better,  and  had  finer,  sleeker  coats  in  conse- 
quence. 

It  now  remains  to  account  for  the  fact  that,  as  a  rule,  the 
horses,  cattle  and  sheep,  in  this  country  show  no  antipathy 
to  it,  but  on  the  contrary,  seem  to  relish  it.  The  question 
is  easily  answered  ;  they  nurse  it  in,  with  their  mothers' 
milk,  which  is  already  impregnated  with  it,  owing  to  the 
habit  of  "  salting "  among  farmers.  So  that  the  calf,  like 
the  young  child,  gets  the  taste  of  salt  with  its  nutriment 
from  the  hour  of  its  birth. 

"  But  what  about  the  wild  animals  that  go  to  the  salt 
licks  ?  "  is  the  next  question.  This  might  be  answered  by 
asking  another  :  "  What  of  the  wild  animals  that  do  not  go 
to  the  licks  ;  if  salt  is  necessary  for  some,  why  not  for  all  ?  " 
And  we  know  that  wild  animals,  as  a  rule,  never  taste  it. 
We  also  know  that  it  is  positively  injurious  to  some  of  them. 
It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  salt  fed  to  birds,  and  even 
chickens,  will  kill  them  ;  and  a  good  supply  of  it  about  the 
roots  of  trees  will  destroy  them.  Of  the  deer  that  are  said 
to  go  to  the  licks,  Dr.  Graham  says  :  "  As  to  the  instinct  of 
the  lower  animals,  it  is  not  true  that  there  is  any  animal  in 


PART  I. J  SALT.  .  65 

nature,  whose  natural  history  is  known  to  man,  which  in- 
stinctively makes  a  dietetic  use  of  salt.  It  is  true  that  some 
herbivorous  animals,  such  as  the  deer,  when  they  are  dis- 
eased by  worms,  grubs,  or  bots,  in  the  alimentary  cavity, 
will  instinctively  go  in  pursuit  of  salt,  not  as  an  article  of 
diet,  not  as  a  seasoning  to  their  food,  but  purely  as  a  medi- 
cine, to  destroy  the  animals  in  their  stomachs  ;*  and  they 
never  instinctively  use  it  at  any  other  time,  nor  for  any 
other  purposes." 

It  is  often  asked  whether  any  immediate  pathological 
effects  follow  the  use  of  salt.  Let  the  person  who  asks  this 
question,  try  taking  double  the  usual  quantity  of  this  condi- 
ment,at  dinner  ;  in  less  than  an  hour  there  will  be  a  burning 
in  the  stomach  (local  inflammatory  action)  which  will  call 
loudly  for  water ;  this  feverish  condition  may  last  a  good 
part  of  the  afternoon,  or  it  may  pass  off  as  the  salty  sub- 
stance is  carried  out  of  the  stomach.  A  better  test  is  to 
take  the  salt  itself,  undiluted  except  with  a  little  water  ;  try 
a  tablespoonf ul  if  you  like,  on  an  empty  stomach.  (This 
amount  of  a  food  proper,  as  rice,  oatmeal  mush,  or  good 
apple  sauce,  taken  by  a  hungry  man,  ought  not  to  cause  any 
unpleasant  sensations.)  If  you  are  not  a  most  inveterate 
salt-eater,  the  quantity  named  will  produce  nausea,  and  per- 
haps vomiting.  But  to  save  the  trouble  of  so  unpleasant  an 
experiment,  suppose  we  take  the  testimony  of  Dr.  Graham. 
He  says  : 

"  Salt  is  a  mineral  substance,  and  is  wholly  innutritions 
and  indigestible.  If  a  tablespoonful  of  it  be  dissolved  in 
half  a  pint  of  water,  and  introduced  into  the  human 
stomach,  it  is  immediately  perceived  by  the  organic  sensi- 
bilities of  that  organ  as  an  offending  or  disturbing 
substance  ;  great  irritation  is  produced  ;  the  vital  forces,  if 
not    exceedingly    impaired    react    with    energy  ;    mucous 


*  Dr.  Graham,  who  did  not  believe  much  in  medicine,  was  evidently  will- 
ing to  give  the  worms  the  benefit  of  the  "  art  killative." 


66  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

and  serous  secretions  are  rapidly  increased  in  the  gastric 
cavity,  to  protect  the  mucous  membrane  from  its  acrid 
and  irritating  qualities  ;  much  distress  is  experienced  by 
the  individual,  and  nausea  and  vomiting  generally  succeed, 
as  an  instinctive  means  of  expelling  the  offending  cause 
from  the  vital  domain  ;  and  in  all  cases,  considerable  por- 
tions of  it  are  driven  through  the  pyloric  orifice  in  the 
intestines,  where  great  irritation  is  also  produced  by  it,  and 
it  is  soon  expelled  from  the  bowels,  with  large  quantities  of 
serum  secreted  from  the  blood  to  dilute  and  flood  away  the 
irritating  substance,  and  thus  protect  the  living  parts  on 
which  it  acts,  and  the  vital  interests  of  the  system  generally, 
from  its  pernicious  effects.  When  salt  is  taken  into 
the  stomach  in  small  quantities  with  food,  the  result  is 
somewhat  different.  If  the  stomach  is  perfectly  healthy  in 
all  its  properties  and  powers,  however  small  the  quan- 
tity of  salt,  it  is  immediately  detected  by  the  undepraved 
sensibilities  of  the  organ,  and  a  vital  reaction  takes  place 
corresponding  in  energy  and  extensiveness  with  the  quan- 
tity and  strength  of  the  offending  substances,  and  by 
the  mucous  and  serous  secretions  which  are  promptly  pro- 
duced, the  parts  are  protected,  and  the  salt  is  so  diluted  as 
to  be  rendered  no  longer  very  "dangerous  to  the  delicate 
vital  properties  of  the  tissues  on  which  it  may  act.  It  is 
therefore  not  expelled  from  the  alimentary  cavity  by  vomit- 
ing nor  purging,  but  is  taken  up  in  a  state  of  solution  by 
the  absorbents  of  the  stomach,  and  mingled  with  the 
blood  of  the  portal  veins  ;  not  in  any  case  nor  degree, 
however,  to  supply  the  wants  of  the  vital  economy,  but  to 
be  expelled  from  the  vital  domain  through  the  kidneys, 
lungs,  skin  and  other  depurating  organs  of  the  system,  as 
a  foreign  substance.  By  the  long  and  habitual  use  of 
this  substance,  however,  the  organic  sensibilities  of  the 
stomach,  and  of  all  the  other  parts  of  the  system,  become 
so  much  impaired  by  its  qualities,  that  they  no  longer  make 


PART  I.]  SALT.  67 

so  energetic  a  resistance  to  it  as  when  they  are  healthy  and 
undepraved,  and  the  salt  is  gradually  permitted  to  pass 
more  and  more  freely  into  the  general  circulation,  and  be 
diffused  throughout  the  whole  vital  domain,  pervading 
the  minute  vessels  of  the  glands  and  other  parts,  and  becom- 
ing so  permanently  a  quality  of  the  serum  of  the  blood  as 
to  be  regarded  by  many  as  an  evidence  of  the  necessity  for 
its  dietetic  use." 

"  The  facts  in  regard  to  the  dietetic  use  of  salt,  then,  are 
these  : — 1.  Salt  is  wholly  innutritious — it  affords  no  nourish- 
ment to  any  structure  or  substance  of  the  human  body.  2. 
It  is  utterly  indigestible — it  enters  the  body  as  a  mineral 
substance — it  is  absorbed  unchanged  as  a  mineral  substance 
—it  goes  the  rounds  of  the  general  circulation  as  an  unas- 
similated  mineral  substance — and  is  finally  eliminated  from 
the  body  through  the  kidneys,  lungs,  skin,  etc.,  as  an  unas- 
similated  mineral  substance.  3.  Its  acrid  quality  is  offen- 
sive to  the  vital  sensibilities  of  the  organs,  always  causing 
vital  reaction  or  resistance,  and  this  vital  reaction  constitutes 
the  only  stimulation  ever  produced  by  salt,  and  is  therefore 
always  attended  with  a  commensurate  degree  of  irritation 
and  vital  expenditure,  and  followed  by  a  correspondent 
degree  of  indirect  debility  and  atony  ;  and  consequently  it 
always  and  inevitably  tends  to  produce  chronic  debility, 
preternatural  irritability,  and  disease  ;  the  stomach,  intes- 
tines, absorbents,  veins,  heart,  arteries,  and  all  the  other 
organs  of  the  system,  are  always  irritated,  exhausted  and 
debilitated  by  its  presence.  4.  It  never  in  any  measure 
promotes  digestion  nor  any  of  the  assimilating  functions  of 
the  system  ;  on  the  contrary,  it  always  retards  those 
functions,  and  is  unfavorable  to  all  the  vital  changes. 
Where  a  stomach  has  been  greatly  debauched  and  its 
energies  prostrated,  the  sudden  and  entire  abstraction  of  salt 
and  all  other  stimulants  from  the  food  would  undoubtedly 
leave  that  organ  in  a  temporary  state  of  atony  or  depres- 
6 


68  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

sion,  which  would  unfit  it  for  the  performance  of  its 
function.  But  it  is  entirely  certain  that,  in  a  stomach  whose 
powers  and  sensibilities  are  unimpaired  and  healthy,  salt 
always  retards  digestion  and  embarrasses  the  function  and 
diminishes  the  functional  powers  of  the  organ  ;  and  the 
impaired  stomach  receives  tone  from  it  only  upon  a  prin- 
ciple which  is  always  and  inevitably  unfriendly  to  its  own 
physiological  interests,  and  to  those  of  the  system  in 
general.  And  this  is  all  true  of  every  other  assimilating 
function  and  process  of  the  vital  economy  ;  and  hence  it  is 
a  well-ascertained  truth  in  the  science  of  physiology,  that 
the  dietetic  use  of  salt  is  unfriendly  to  all  the  processes  of 
assimilation,  nutrition  and  secretion,  in  the  vital  economy. 
5.  It  always,  in  proportion  to  the  freedom  with  which  it  is 
used,  diminishes  gustatory  enjoyment.  It  is  true  that 
there  are  some  substances  eaten  by  man,  whose  qualities 
are  such  that  they  are  rendered  more  tolerable  by  the  use 
of  salt  than  they  would  be  without  it ;  but  it  is  neverthe- 
less true  that  the  use  of  salt  with  those  substances  always 
and  necessarily  impairs  the  nicely  discriminating  power  of 
the  organ  of  taste,  and  takes  away  the  delicate  perception 
of  the  agreeable  qualities  of  more  proper  food,  and  thereby 
on  the  whole  immeasurably  diminishes  the  amount  of  gus- 
tatory enjoyment  in  the  course  of  an  ordinary  life.  In- 
credible as  this  may  appear  to  many,  every  intelligent  in- 
dividual may  demonstrate  its  truth  by  three  months'  fair 
experiment." 

Now  comes  the  query,  how  it  came  about  that  whole 
nations  of  people  took  to  the  use  of  salt,  and  continued  it 
through  successive  ages.  The  reason  is  obvious  :  it  was  no 
doubt  a  necessity,  after  the  introduction  of  animal  foods  ; 
for  in  order  to  keep  these  from  putrefying,  particularly  in 
warm  climates  and  on  long  journeys,  an  antiseptic  was 
indispensable.  A  suitable  substance  for  preserving  meats? 
from  decay,  was  found  in  common  salt ;  and  though  it  sc 


PART  I.]  SALT.  69 

changed  the  nature  of  the  meat  as  to  render  it  harder  to 
digest,  and  very  much  less  nutritious,*  still,  it  kept  it  from 
going  to  total  destruction.  Then,  as  the  flesh-eaters  partook 
of  the  salted  meat  they  not  only  came  to  like  it,  but  they 
also  relished  the  vegetables  that  were  cooked  with  it. 

To  be  brief,  one  can  learn  to  eat  and  like  almost  anything, 
by  simply  continuing  the  use  of  it ;  and  the  fact  that  it 
pleases  the  palate,  is  no  proof  either  of  its  wholesomeness. 
or  of  its  relative  nutritive  value.  But  if  there  is  any  one 
article  of  food  or  drink  that  we  can  not  leave  off,  even 
for  a  day,  without  great  discomfort  (as  wine,  tea,  coffee  or 
a  good  salted  beef-steak),  we  may  rest  assured  that  that 
article  is  doing  us  harm  ;  or  in  other  words,  that  it  is  not 
simply  a  food,  but  to  a  greater  or  less  degree  a  stimulant ; 
and  just  to  the  extent  that  we  are  enslaved  by  it,  to  thai 
extent  are  we  already  injured. 

A  diet  of  salted  meats,  as  almost  every  one  knows,  pro- 
duces scurvy,  the  disease  being  caused  by  the  combined 
effects  of  salt  and  grease.  Richard  T.  Colburn,  of  New 
York,  who  is  a  hygienist,  has  written  a  small  work  on  "  The 
Salt-Eating  Habit,"  from  which  the  following  quotations 
are  taken  :  "  I  am  told  by  an  Italian  who  has  lived  among 
them,  that  the  Algerines  do  not  eat  salt";  neither  do  the 
Indian  tribes  on  the  Columbia  River,  and  Puget  Sound — 
among  whom  the  writer  has  traveled.  "  I  am  assured  by 
many  of  the  great  herders  in  Texas,  Colorado  and  Califor- 
nia, that  the  native  cattle  are  not  fed  salt,  never  see  it,  and 


*  Pavy  says  :  "  The  effect  of  a  saline  is"to  depreciate  the  nutritive  value 
of  the  article  by  extracting  the  soluble  constituents,  and  by  also  hardening 
the  texture,  so  as  to  render  it  difficult  of  digestion."  He  also  says  :  "  The 
analysis  of  brine  shows  that  the  process  of  salting  must  materially 
diminish  the  nutritive  value  of  meat,  for  it  is  found  to  contain  a  large 
portion  of  the  ingredients  of  its  juice.  Liebig  estimates  the  loss  of 
nutritive  value  as  amounting  to  one-third,  or  even  one-half.  Soaking 
salted  meat  in  water  removes  its  saltness,  but  can  not,  of  course,  restore 
the  nutritive  principles  that  have  been  lost."—  Food  and  Dietetics. 


70  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  I. 

will  not  eat  it  if  offered."  "  I  nave  both  horses  and  cows 
that  do  not  and  will  not  eat  salt  if  offered  to  them.  The 
parents,  when  I  cut  off  the  supply,  did  not  suffer  percepti- 
bly, and  in  a  short  time  unlearned  the  habit.  Neither  the 
old  ones  nor  their  progeny  will  touch  it  now."  "  A  hungry 
cow  will  eat  what  is  called  '  salted  hay,'  whereon  the  brine 
of  the  sea  has  crystallized  ;  but  invariably  the  same  cow  will 
turn  from  it  to  good,  well-cured  meadow  hay."  "The 
whole  of  the  birds  avoid  salt.  It  is  fatal  to  chickens  and 
tame  birds,  as  every  housewife  knows."  Chicken-cholera, 
this  writer  thinks,  is  caused  in  part  by  the  salted  food  given 
the  fowls  from  the  table,  wild  birds  not  being  subject  to 
disorders  of  this  kind.  He  further  adds,  "I  believe  it  is 
well  ascertained  that  when  hogs  get  a  moderate  amount  of 
brine,  or  pickled  salt  meat,  it  is  impossible  to  save  them." 
Mr.  Colburn  is  firmly  of  the  belief  that  the  use  of  salt  is  a 
prolific  cause  of  impaired  digestion,  owing  to  the  unnatural 
flow  of  saliva  and  other  digestive  fluids  which  it  stimulates. 
He  also  thinks  that  by  causing  indigestion,  it  to  some  extent 
injures  the  teeth. 

All  hygienists  who  have  totally  abstained  from  the  use 
of  salt,  even  for  a  few  months,  lose  their  relish  for  it,  and 
after  a  time  it  becomes  positively  distasteful.  And  to  illus- 
trate the  force  of  habit — even  in  leaving  it  off — it  is  a 
matter  of  common  observation  that  unsalted  foods  which 
only  come  to  the  table  occasionally,  are  less  relished  than  those 
that  are  eaten  daily.  Another  experience,  which  every  one 
has  to  find  out  for  himself,  is  this  :  salt  when  taken  by  any  one 
not  accustomed  to  its  use,  invariably  creates  thirst ;  and 
where  there  has  been  chronic  inflammation  in  any  part  of 
the  alimentary  canal,  and  it  has  disappeared,  owing  to  strict 
hygienic  living,  salt  food,  used  even  for  a  short  time,  gener- 
ally causes  its  reappearance. 


part  i.]  pepper  and  other  condiments.  71 

Pepper  and  other  Condiments. 

Pepper  is  not,  like  salt,  a  mineral  substance  :  it  is  a  vege- 
table poison.  Flies  will  not  touch  it,  neither  will  they  eat 
salt.  Black  pepper,  if  taken  on  an  empty  stomach  in  the 
moderate  quantity  of  a  teaspoonful,  will  either  be  promptly 
ejected,  or  it  will  cause  great  disturbance  in  the  stomach 
and  bowels,  and  also  in  the  heart's  action  after  it  enters  the 
circulation.  It  is  in  no  sense  a  food,  but  in  every  sense  a 
stimulant,  which  is  but  another  name  for  a  substance  non- 
usable  by  the  vital  organs,  and  therefore  to  be  thrown  out 
of  the  vital  domain.  Eed  or  black  pepper  is  a  prolific 
cause,  as  are  all  stimulants,  of  enlargement  of  the  blood- 
vessels, and  ultimately  of  disease  of  the  heart.  Its  imme- 
diate effect  upon  the  tongue,  throat,  stomach  and  bowels  is 
to  create  increased  action,  not  only  of  the  capillaries,  caus- 
ing temporary  congestion  and  even  inflammation  of  the 
mucous  surfaces,  but  also  of  the  organs  which  secrete  the 
digestive  fluids.  Its  ultimate  effect  is  to  weaken  and  deaden 
these  organs,  by  repeated  stimulation  to  abnormal  action  ; 
it  also  impairs  or  destroys  the  nerves  of  taste  in  the  mouth, 
together  with  the  gastric  or  other  nerves  which  aid  in  the 
process  of  digestion.  When  these  are  weakened  by  stimu- 
lants, the  functions  themselves  are  necessarily  impaired  ; 
and  confirmed  dyspepsia,  with  its  attendant  train  of  bad 
symptoms,  brings  up  the  rear. 

It  is  needless  to  say,  that  ginger,  spices,  nutmeg,  cinna- 
mon, and  all  that  class  of  condiments,  however  much  they 
may  vary  in  quality,  are  stimulating  to  a  greater  or  less  de- 
gree, and  must  be  put  into  the  list  of  "things  forbidden," 
in  the  hygienic  dietary.  The  habit,  every  year  increasing, 
of  using  spices  and  condiments  in  almost  every  article  of 
food,  and  in  such  large  quantities,  can  not  be  too  severely 
condemned.  The  end  must  be  hopeless  indigestion,  with 
prostration  of  the  nerves  which  supply  the  digestive  organs, 


72  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  LPART  *• 

and  detriment  or  ruin  to  the  entire  system.  In  the  language 
of  Sylvester  Graham,  "  The  stern  truth  is,  that  no  purely 
stimulating  substance  of  any  kind  can  be  habitually  used 
by  man,  without  injury  to  the  whole  nature."  Nor  does  Dr. 
Graham  stand  alone  in  his  views  on  this  subject.  Pereira 
says  :  "  The  relish  for  flavoring  or  seasoning  ingredients 
manifested  by  almost  every  person,  would  lead  us  to  suppose 
that  these  substances  serve  some  useful  purpose  beyond 
that  of  merely  gratifying  the  palate.  At  present,  however, 
we  have  no  evidence  that  they  do.  They  stimulate,  but  do 
not  seem  to  nourish.  The  volatile  oil  they  contain  is  ab- 
sorbed, and  then  thrown  out  of  the  system,  still  possessing 
its  characteristic  odor."  Dr.  Beaumont  is  essentially  of  the 
same  opinion.  He  remarks  :  "Condiments,  particularly 
those  of  a  spicy  kind,  are  non-essential  to  the  process  of 
digestion  in  a  healthy  state  of  the  system.  They  afford  no 
nutrition.  Though  they  may  assist  the  action  of  a  debili- 
tated stomach  for  a  time,  their  continual  use  never  fails  to 
produce  an  indirect  debility  of  that  organ.  They  affect  it 
as  alcohol  and  other  stimulants  do — the  present  relief  af- 
forded, is  at  the  expense  of  future  suffering." 

In  doing  away  with  spices  and  condiments,  we  must  also 
dispense  with  pickles  ;  there  is  nothing  in  a  pickle  to  redeem 
it  from  hopeless  condemnation.  The  spices  in  it  are  bad, 
the  vinegar  is  a  seething  mass  of  rottenness,  full  of  animal- 
cule, and  the  poor  little  innocent  cucumber,  or  other  vege- 
table, if  it  had  very  little  "character"  in  the  beginning, 
must  now  fall  into  the  ranks  of  the  "  totally  depraved." 

Drinking  at  Meals. 

Among  the  other  "  odd  things  "  that  hygienists  believe  in, 
is  to  abstain  from  drinking  at  meals.  In  the  first  place,  we 
do  not  see  any  necessity  for  it ;  if  the  horse  or  ox  can 
eat  dry  grain  without  stopping  between  mouthf  uls  to  take  a 


PART  I.]  DRINKING   AT    MEALS.  73 

sip  of  water,  why  should  not  we  manage  to  swallow  our 
foods,  which  are  much  more  moist,  without  resorting  to  the 
"  washing-down  "  process  ? 

Like  the  habit  of  taking  only  soft  foods,  that  of  drinking 
at  meals  is  exceedingly  detrimental  to  good  digestion. 
The  evils  it  brings  are  manifold.  In  the  first  place,  it  in- 
clines one  to  taking  too  large  mouthfuls,  and  this,  added  to  the 
fluid  poured  down  with  the  food,  interferes  with  thorough 
mastication.  "  Food  well  chewed  is  half  digested."  But 
suppose  we  "  bolt "  it  in  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  as  is  the 
usual  custom  :  instead  of  its  being  divided  as  finely  as 
possible,  and  time  given  for  the  flow  of  the  saliva  whose 
office  it  is  to  dissolve  the  nutrient  particles,  and  otherwise 
prepare  them  for  the  next  stage  in  the  process  of  digestion, 
the  food  enters  the  stomach,  not  only  in  a  crude  state 
mechanically,  but  without  undergoing  that  first  step  in  the 
vitalizing  process  which  is  ultimately  to  transform  it  into  a 
constituent  part  of  the  blood. 

If  the  ill  effects  stopped  here,  it  would  not  be  so  bad  ; 
but  they  do  not.  The  moment  the  gastric  juices  begin  to 
fiow  from  the  follicles  in  the  stomach,  they  are  met,  not  by 
the  smooth  pulp  of  finely  masticated  and  insalivated  food, 
but  by  a  crude,  half-ground  sort  of  "  fodder,"  wet  up  with 
a  slush  of  hot  coffee,  strong  tea,  greasy  cocoa,  ice-water,  or 
some  other  liquid,  each  as  foreign  in  its  nature  to  that 
vitalizing  solvent  which  the  stomach  itself  prepares,  as  it  is 
possible  to  conceive.  And  if  the  drink  taken  is  very  cold, 
it  will  check  or  prevent  the  flow  of  both  the  gastric  and  the 
salivary  juices,  and  thus  cripple  digestion  at  every  stage, 
from  the  lack  of  vitalized  material  to  carry  on  that  process. 
If  hot  drinks  are  indulged  in,  the  opposite  effect  follows, 
viz.,  an  over-stimulation,  and  therefore  exhaustion  of  the 
glands  and  follicles  that  secrete  the  digestive  fluids. 

The  next  injury  sustained  is  in  the  duodenum  and  small 
intestine  ;  the  food,  or  that  part  of  it  which  reaches  these, 


74  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

is  not  in  a  condition  to  be  properly  acted  on  by  the  intes- 
tinal juices.  The  consequences  are,  first,  that  the  digestive 
function  in  this  part  of  the  alimentary  canal  is  overtaxed  ; 
in  other  words,  the  chyme  can  not  be  made  into  chyle  with- 
out an  extra  drain  upon  the  digestive  supplies  in  that 
quarter.  Second,  that  the  chyle  formation  is  not  as  finely 
elaborated  and  vitalized  as  it  would  have  been  had  the 
mouth  and  stomach  digestion  been  complete.  Third,  that 
the  chyle  is  too  crude  in  quality  to  be  fully  absorbed  by  the 
lacteals,  and  carried  into  the  blood. 

Now,  if  the  mastication  of  the  food  has  been  imperfect, 
the  formation  of  chyme  interfered  with,  and  the  chyle  not 
of  the  best  quality,  what  shall  we  say  of  the  residual  matters 
in  the  large  intestine  ?  If  the  elaborated  material  has  fallen 
below  the  normal  standard,  the  residue  will  most  assuredly 
be  in  anything  but  the  proper  condition.  If  there  were 
crude  qualities  in  the  chyme  and  chyle,  there  is  crudeness 
intensified  here  ;  the  half-digested  foods  which  could  not 
undergo  absorption  in  the  small  intestine  are  carried  along 
the  alimentary  canal,  and  there  is  not  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  intestinal  juices  to  moisten  the  mass  properly.  Instead 
of  the  normal  condition  of  plastic  matter,  there  is  "  chaff 
and  water,"  so  to  speak,  the  latter  being  absorbed  in  the 
intestinal  canal.  Then  comes  irritation  of  the  mucous  sur- 
faces, engendering  heat  (feverishness),  and  all  those  dis- 
agreeable symptoms  which  betray  the  presence  of  undigested 
matter.  In  other  words,  we  have  constipation,  which  is  one 
of  the  forms  of  indigestion. 

A  result  somewhat  similar  follows,  when  too  much  food 
has  been  eaten ;  instead  of  being  vitalized  and  appro- 
priated, it  rots  or  decomposes  in  the  alimentary  canal,  and 
gases  are  given  off. 

But  by  far  the  greatest  detriment  of  all  is  in  the  bad 
blood  that  follows  imperfect  digestion.  If  the  chyle  is 
not  properly  elaborated,   every  tissue  in  the  body   must 


PAET  I.]  TEA,    COFFEE,    ETC.  75 

suffer  for  lack  of  the  regular  supplies  of  nutrition.  The 
muscles  shrivel  up,  the  brain  is  not  furnished  with  good 
pure  blood,  and  the  latter  itself  becomes  thick  and  turbid, 
or  poor  and  impoverished.  In  short,  the  whole  being 
suffers  from  top  to  toe  ;  and  owing  to  disuse,  the  very  teeth 
become  covered  with  scurvy,  and  decay  or  fall  out. 

Let  us  then  masticate  our  food  properly,  and  abandon 
the  pernicious  habit  of  washing  it  down  ;  it  will  take  a  little 
longer  time,  but  we  shall  save  it  all  back  again  from  sick 
beds,  headaches,  and  bad  feelings  generally.  We  shall  also 
have  better  bodies,  and  clearer  brains  with  which  to  work. 

Tea,  Coffee,  etc. 

Not  believing  in  any  drink  at  meals,  it  is  hardly  to  be 
supposed  that  hygienists  could  recommend  tea  or  coffee. 
If,  as  some  think,  a  fluid  "  must  be  taken "  with  the  food, 
the  best  is  water  or  gruel,  at  about  blood  heat ;  a  drink 
warmer  or  colder  than  this,  habitually  indulged  in,  leads 
to  evil  consequences,  as  already  shown. 

Tea  and  coffee  are  injurious,  not  merely  because  they 
are  taken  at  meal-time,  but  because  they  are  stimulating, 
and  in  fact,  poisonous.  The  water  in  which  unparched 
coffee  is  steeped  is  of  a  greenish  color,  and  will  kill  flies  ; 
nor  does  the  parching  of  the  bean  remove  all  its  noxious 
qualities.  To  test  this  matter,  try  making  coffee  two  or 
three  times  the  usual  strength  ;  then  drink  a  pint  of  it  on  an 
empty  stomach,  eating  nothing  after  it,  and  note  the  results. 
You  will  do  well  to  try  the  experiment  on  some  one  accus- 
tomed to  its  use,  or  you  might  have  to  order  the  undertaker. 

The  question  is  often  asked,  "  Which  is  the  more  in- 
jurious, tea  or  coffee  ?  " — to  which  the  answer  may  well  be 
given,  "  Both  !  "  The  late  E.  T.  Trail,  M.D.,  makes  the 
following  statement  :  i '  Tea  possesses  strong  nervine  and 
moderate  narcotic  properties,  and  considerable  astringency, 
due  to  the  presence  of  tannin."     And  Prof.  0.  A.  Lee,  New 


76  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  L 

York,  remarks,  "  A  very  strong  decoction  of  green  tea,  or 
the  extract,  speedily  destroys  life  in  the  inferior  animals, 
even  when  given  in  very  small  doses."  Of  coffee,  Dr.  Trail, 
after  speaking  of  its  nervine  and  narcotic  qualities, 
says  :  "  From  all  the  testimony  I  can  gather  from  medical 
and  dietetical  writers,  coupled  with  some  degree  of  per- 
sonal observation,  I  should  judge  it  to  be  more  directly 
injurious  to  the  digestive  process,  and  more  exhausting  to 
the  general  nervous  energy  than  tea,  and  less  injurious  to 
the  kidneys  and  pelvic  viscera." 

To  the  unperverted  palate,  coffee  has  a  bitter,  unpleas- 
ant taste.  "  Not  so,"  says  the  reader  ;  "  I  relished  it  from 
the  time  I  was  a  babe."  Quite  likely  ;  and  in  all  proba- 
bility you  nursed  it  in  with  your  mother's  milk.  Besides, 
very  young  babes  will  swallow  from  instinct  almost  any- 
thing that  is  given  them,  even  to  castor  oil. 

If  any  one  really  wishes  to  find  out  whether  tea  and 
coffee  are  doing  him  an  injury,  let  him  totally  abstain  from 
both  for  a  few  months  ;  then  let  him  take  a  good  strong 
cup  or  two  of  either  beverage,  and  retire  for  the  night.  If 
he  does  not  He  awake  part  or  all  of  that  night,  he  will  have 
better  nerves  than  a  good  many  others  who  have  tried  the 
experiment,  and  tossed  on  sleepless  pillows  till  morning. 
What  a  blessing  it  is  that  "  strong "  toast-water,  oat  meal 
gruel,  or  fruit  juice,  even  when  taken  by  one  wholly  unused 
to  it,  has  no  such  unpleasant  effect ! 

One  can  often  tell  a  tea-toper  at  sight,  particularly  if  the 
stimulant  has  so  far  done  its  work  as  to  affect  the  general 
health  ;  the  individual  has  frequently  a  shrunken,  shriveled 
appearance  that  is  unmistakable.  And  the  tobacco-using 
habit,  even  in  a  young  man,  is  sometimes  detected  by 
simply  shaking  hands  with  him.  After  the  nerves  are  par- 
tially shattered  there  is  no  longer  the  firm  grasp,  but  an 
unsteady  motion,  a  half  tremor  in  the  hand,  not  unlike  the 
shaking  gait  of  a  dog  that  has  had  a  slight  under-dose  of 


PAKT  I.]  TEA,    COFFEE,    ETC.  77 

strychnine — enough,  not  to  kill  him,  but  to  affect  the 
muscles  permanently,  and  produce  something  like  "  shaking- 
palsy."  Poor  creature  !  one  always  wants  to  end  his  misery 
as  soon  as  possible — not  the  young  man's,  but  the  dog's. 

"  But  how,"  it  is  asked,  "  are  we  to  replace  the  waste 
fluids  of  the  system,  if  we  do  not  drink  at  meals  ?  When 
nearly  three-fourths  of  the  human  body  is  water,  how  is 
this  to  be  supplied  ?  "  The  question  is  not  hard  to  answer. 
In  the  first  place,  nature  has  provided  an  abundance  of 
juicy  fruits  and  vegetables,  some  of  them  having,  as  shown 
by  analysis,  as  high  as  80  to  90  per  cent,  water  ;  and  it  is 
our  own  fault  if  we  do  not  furnish  our  tables  with  these 
products.  People  are  apt  to  forget  that  their  bodies  are 
nourished  by  the  organized  fluids  in  fruits  and  vegetables, 
as  well  as  by  the  more  solid  materials.  Some  writers,  as 
Schlickeysen,  have  placed  fruit  before  bread,  as  an  article 
of  diet.  The  solid  constituents  of  food,  it  is  true,  are  found 
chiefly  in  the  grains  ;  but  the  fluids,  which  make  so  large  a 
per  cent,  of  the  body,  are  more  abundantly  supplied  from 
the  juicy  fruits. 

As  to  drinking  "  for  the  love  of  it,"  it  is  a  fact  worthy  of 
note  that  if  we  live  on  fruits,  grains  and  vegetables,  reject- 
ing animal  foods  and  the  various  seasonings,  as  sugar,  salt, 
pepper,  spices,  etc.,  we  shall  care  very  little  for  drinking, 
even  between  meals.  It  is  the  presence  of  stimulants  in 
ordinary  foods,  that  creates  thirst ;  do  away  with  these,  and 
the  thirst  is  gone.  As  if  it  were  not  possible  in  the  very 
nature  of  things,  to  eat  a  meal  without  something  to  drink, 
the  question  is  frequently  asked,  "How  would  chocolate 
do?" — quite  forgetting  that  no  one  would  care  for  choco- 
late, if  it  were  not  for  the  quantities  of  milk  and  sugar  that 
are  used  in  it  as  seasonings.  Moreover,  it  is  prepared  from 
the  oily  seeds  of  the  Theobroma  Cacao,  and  is,  therefore,  a 
greasy  substance,  not  at  all  fit  to  moisten  the  food  prepara- 
tory to  its  being  received  into  the  stomach. 


78  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

After  what  has  already  been  said  in  regard  to  stimulants 
and  stimulating  drinks,  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  add,  that 
the  whole  family  of  alcoholic  beverages,  even  to  the  "  lighter 
drinks,"  can  find  no  favor  with  hygienists.  They  are  all 
detrimental.  Beer,  for  example,  contains  by  volume,  5  to  8 
per  cent,  of  alcohol,  sometimes  a  little  more  than  this,  and 
sometimes  a  little  less.  "  Adopting  mean  numbers,  a  pint 
(20  ounces)  of  beer  will  contain  about  an  ounce  of  alcohol 
(Parkes.)"  *  Wine  usually  has  18  to  22  per  cent.  ;  sometimes 
as  high  as  30  per  cent.  The  habitual  use  of  beer  inclines 
to  a  plethoric  habit,  and  the  formation  of  loose,  flabby 
tissue,  with  very  little  muscle.  Moreover,  the  supposed 
good  effect  of  all  stimulating  drinks,  comes  from  the  rally- 
ing of  the  system  to  get  rid  of  the  alcohol,  which  is  a  poison, 
an  anti-vital  or  life-destroying  substance.  After  the  excite- 
ment or  stimulation  is  over,  there  is  a  corresponding  de- 
pression of  the  system,  showing  that  vital  force  has  been 
expended  in  the  effort  made  to  expel  the  offending  thing. 
The  stronger  the  beverage  taken,  or  in  other  words,  the 
larger  per  cent,  of  alcohol  in  it,  the  more  marked  will 
be  the  effects. 

It  is  sometimes  asked,  whether  new  cider  is  injurious  as 
a  beverage  ;  to  which  it  must  be  replied,  that  the  adjective 
"  new  "  is  rather  indefinite.  Hight  from  the  press,  the  juice 
is  almost  as  bland  and  unstimulating  out  of  the  apple,  as  in 
it ;  but  in  a  few  hours  there  is  a  "  smack "  to  it,  and  a 
foam,  that  tell  of  something  stronger.  Many  a  poor  fellow 
has  again  been  led  into  the  downward  path,  simply  by  a 
drink  of  cider.  The  safe  way,  is  to  take  the  juice  and  the 
flesh  of  the  fruit  together.  Any  drink  that  contains  even  a 
small  per  cent,  of  alcohol,  injures  the  blood  ;  it  affects  the 
red  corpuscles,  causing  them  to  part  with  a  portion  of  their 
water.     When  a  large  quantity  of  alcohol  is  present,  these 


*  Pa\y's  "Food  and  Dietetics,"  page  364. 


PART  I.J  FOOD,    INTELLECT    AND    MORALS.  79 

corpuscles  shrivel  up  into  corrugated  discs,  and  often 
adhere  together,  creating  obstruction  in  the  blood-vessels, 
and  to  a  certain  extent  cutting  off  the  nutritive  supplies 
from  those  parts  through  which  these  vessels  ramify.  It 
also  affects  the  fibrin  of  the  blood,  causing  it  to  coagulate 
or  form  into  clots,  and  in  some  instances  producing 
paralysis,  or  even  death. 

Food,  Intellect  and  Morals. 

That  the  character  of  the  food  we  eat  bears  a  very  close 
relation  to  the  quality  of  tissues  made  from  it,  is  a  fact 
which  has  been  frequently  stated  in  these  chapters  ;  it 
seems  indeed  to  be  fairly  well  understood,  that  in  order  to 
develop  strong,  firmly-knit  muscles,  the  food  eaten  must  not 
only  be  simple,  but  sparing.  But  that  the  dietetic  habits  of 
a  people  have  anything  to  do  with  their  intellectual  and 
moral  powers,  is  a  very  important  fact  which  we  seem  con- 
tinually to  lose  sight  of.  It  can  not  be  denied,  however, 
that  the  history  of  the  human  race,  from  the  earliest  to  the 
latest  times,  furnishes  the  best  of  evidence  on  this  point ; 
and  the  relation  holds,  not  merely  with  respect  to  indi- 
viduals, but  to  nations.  Following  out  the  history  of  the 
latter,  we  find  them  in  the  zenith  of  their  power  at  a  time 
when  for  successive  generations  the  habits  of  the  people, 
dietetic  and  otherwise,  had  been  simple  and  healthful.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  decline  and  downfall  of  these  nations 
came  not  until  after  they  had  departed  from  their  plain  and 
f rugal  ways. 

And  were  we  to  trace  the  career  of  individuals  eminent 
for  learning  or  power,  we  should  find  a  like  correspondence 
to  exist ;  men  as  well  as  nations  reach  the  acme  of  their 
strength,  intellectually  and  morally,  before  their  minds  are 
clouded,  and  their  bodies  plethoric  by  full  feeding  and 
other  voluptuous  habits.  Those  who  are  born  in  the  lap  of 
luxury  rarely  attain  to  any  considerable  prominence,  either 


80  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

as  thinkers  or  workers.  It  is  also  well  known  that  the 
greatest  philosophers,  and  the  most  profound  scholars,  both 
in  ancient  and  modern  times,  have  been  men  of  temperate 
and  abstemious  habits. 

In  the  light  of  history,  therefore,  there  is  but  one  conclu- 
sion to  be  drawn  in  the  matter  ;  viz.,  that  in  order  to  make 
the  best  use  of  our  minds,  or  to  develop  them  to  their 
greatest  capacity,  the  food  we  eat  must  be  proper  in  quality 
and  moderate  in  quantity.  Indeed,  how  could  it  be  other- 
wise, when  we  consider  that  the  brain,  which  is  the  organ 
of  the  mind,  is  constantly  supplied  with  blood  for  its  special 
growth  and  nourishment,  and  that  this  blood  is  made  out  of 
the  things  eaten  ?  If,  therefore,  the  quality  of  the  food  is 
bad,  or  if  any  substance  deleterious  to  the  vital  organism  is 
taken  with  it,  the  brain  will  immediately  suffer  ;  and  when 
this  organ  is  not  in  its  normal  condition,  how  can  we  expect 
it  to  do  good  work?  In  other  words,  bad  food,  or  too 
much  of  it,  makes  bad  blood  ;  bad  blood  causes  a  disordered 
brain  ;  and  a  disordered  brain  can  not  do  first-class  think- 
ing. 

The  ill  effects  of  stimulants  in  food,  are  manifold  ;  they 
send  an  increased  quantity  of  blood  to  the  base  of  the  brain, 
causing  congestion  of  the  cerebellum.  This  congestion 
creates  excitement  or  preternatural  action  of  the  animal 
propensities,  inducing  in  the  individual  a  desire  to  fight, 
commit  murder,  and  do  all  sorts  of  immoral  or  unlawful 
things.  But  the  evil  does  not  stop  here  ;  the  habitual  tak- 
ing of  stimulating  substances,  even  in  limited  quantity, 
causes  an  increased  growth  of  those  organs  that  are  located 
in  the  base  of  the  brain  ;  and  this,  with  the  greater  activity 
that  necessarily  follows,  leads  to  intense  passional  emotions, 
and  excesses  of  every  description.  So  that  murder,  theft, 
and  all  manner  of  evil  doings,  are  the  legitimate  results  of 
the  introduction  into  a  community  of  stimulating  foods  and 
drinks. 


?ART  I.J  FOOD,    INTELLECT    AND    MORALS.  81 

"  But,"  says  one,  "  why  speak  of  these  things  in  a  cook- 
book ?  The  temperance  hall  is  the  place  to  discourse  upon 
the  eyils  of  alcohol."  To  this  query  there  are  two  answers  ; 
in  the  first  place,  it  is  a  lamentable  fact,  that  King  Alcohol 
does  not  confine  himself  to  the  highways  in  society.  He 
appears  in  private  circles,  takes  a  seat  at  the  domestic 
hearth,  and  makes  himself  welcome  at  table.  His  fingers 
have  "  touched  "  the  delicate  puddings,  the  rich  pastries,  or 
other  fine  desserts  ;  he  comes  with  the  wines,  the  pale 
sherries,  and  brandies,  that  are  used  in  preparing  these 
dishes.  He  is  in  the  houses  of  the  rich,  and  the  hovels  of 
the  poor  ;  he  goes  to  the  gay  feasts,  and  he  comes  home  to 
the  midnight  embers,  burning  low  on  the  hearth-stone.  He 
makes  his  way  to  the  churches,  and  appears  at  the  sacra- 
mental board  ;  and  the  reformed  inebriate  is  reminded,  at 
one  and  the  same  time,  both  of  the  love  of  Christ,  and  of 
former  debauches ! 

But  this  is  not  the  whole  of  the  matter ;  when  King 
Alcohol  comes  to  our  firesides,  and  sits  down  at  our  tables, 
he  is  met  by  a  multitude  of  his  own  "blood  relations"; 
some  near  of  kin,  some  more  distant.  And  the  peculiarity 
of  this  numerous  household  is,  that  if  you  entertain  a  single 
one  of  them,  that  individual  never  stops  till  he  brings  all 
the  others  with  him. 

Figures  aside,  however,  the  plain  facts  are  these :  if  one 
is  in  the  habit  of  using  tobacco,  tea  and  coffee  can  not  be 
dispensed  with  ;  and  if  either  of  these  beverages  forms 
part  of  the  morning  repast,  a  "  good  rich  beef -steak  "  is  the 
next  thing  in  order.  Moreover,  if  steak  and  other  meats 
come  to  the  table,  salt  and  pepper  are  expected  to  come 
also  ;  and  the  other  contents  of  the  castor  usually  gain  an 
easy  admittance.  Then  are  introduced  the  spicy  pickles, 
pungent  sauces,  and  other  condiments  that  set  the  blood  on 
fire,  and  inflame  the  passions. 

Yerilv,  the  wives  and  mothers  of  this  country,  are  them- 


82  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  I. 

selves  responsible  for  much  of  the  ruin  wrought  in  their 
own  households.  Had  their  tables  been  plain  and  simple, 
these  things  had  not  been.  Is  it  any  wonder  that  crime  and 
bloodshed  stalk  rampant  through  the  land  ?  That  licentious- 
ness lurks  in  the  by-paths?  That  women  take  to  morphine 
or  the  mad-house,  and  men  blow  their  brains  out  ?  That 
homicides  multiply  with  amazing  rapidity,  and  theft  and 
other  crimes  are  frequent  in  high  places  ?  These  outrages 
on  common  decency  and  the  whole  community,  are  not  com- 
mitted by  the  plain,  temperate  members  of  society,  who  sit 
down  three  times  a  day  to  unstimulating  food,  go  to  their 
work  regularly  in  the  daytime,  and  retire  to  rest  at  night- 
fall. Could  the  private  histories  of  the  lawless  ones  be 
written,  we  should  find  the  "little  foxes"  that  spoil  the 
tender  vines. 

Rev.  Ja  F.  Clymer,  whose  admirable  little  work  on  "  Food 
and  Morals  "  has  already  been  alluded  to  in  this  book,  gives 
a  forcible  illustration  of  the  effect  which  diet  has  on  char- 
acter, even  in  childhood.  "  A  father,  by  prayer  and  precept, 
and  flogging,  had  done  his  best  to  reform  his  boy,  whose 
staple  diet  was  meat  and  sausage  and  pie  and  cake  at  his 
meals,  with  lunch  between.  The  family  physician  said  to 
the  father,  c  If  you  will  put  a  leech  back  of  each  of  your 
boy's  ears  once  a  week  for  a  month,  you  will  do  more  to  re- 
form him  than  your  preaching  and  pounding  will  do  in  a 
year.'  The  father  asked  for  the  philosophy  of  this  pre- 
scription. '  Why,'  said  the  doctor,  '  your  boy  has  bad  blood, 
and  too  much  of  it ;  he  must  behave  badly,  or  he  would 
burst.'  'Then,'  said  his  father,  'I'll  change  his  diet  from 
beef  and  pie  to  hominy  and  milk.'  In  three  months  there- 
after, a  better  boy  of  his  age  could  not  be  found  in  the 
neighborhood.  The  acrid,  biting,  evil  blood  had  not  become 
food  for  leeches,  but  it  had  done  its  wicked  work  and  passed 
away  ;  and  a  cooler,  blander,  purer,  safer  blood  had  been 
supplied  from  sweeter,  gentler  food  sources." 


PART  I.J  FOOD,    INTELLECT    AND    MORALS.  83 

The  trouble  in  this  country  is,  that  the  fathers  and  mothers 
do  not  begin  right ;  they  demoralize  their  children  from 
the  very  start,  by  giving  them .  at  table  and  elsewhere  their 
own  way  in  everything.  In  fact,  the  child  orders  and  the 
mother  serves.  The  women  in  the  old  country  set  us  a 
good  example  in  this  respect ;  in  England  and  Scotland  no 
mother  would  think  of  seating  her  little  child  at  the  table 
with  grown  people,  and  giving  it  any  and  everything  that 
was  before  it.  She  places  it  at  the  child's  table  in  the 
nursery,  and  gives  it  plain  bread  and  milk  or  mush  and 
milk.  Not  so  in  America  ;  here  the  mother  asks  her  little 
one  what  it  will  have,  instead  of  giving  it  what  she  thinks  it 
needs.  Truly,  we  are  a  fast  people  ;  and  unless  we  change  our 
habits  we  shall  run  a  fearful  career,  brilliant  but  brief,  dash- 
ing but  dissolute,  and  ending  at  last  in  imbecility  or  infamy. 

The  physicians  of  the  hygienic  school,  claim  to  have 
demonstrated  two  facts  :  first,  that  intemperance  (unless 
inherited)  rarely  if  ever  begins  until  there  has  been  the 
habitual  use  of  condiments  and  the  lighter  stimulants, 
either  in  the  food  or  drink.  Second,  that  when  the  habit  of 
taking  strong  drink  is  established,  the  safest,  surest  way  to 
reform,  is  at  once  to  abandon  all  stimulus  in  the  dietary,  at 
the  same  time  that  the  drinking  is  discontinued.  Many  in- 
ebriates have  been  reclaimed  in  this  way,  and  in  a  compara- 
tively short  space  of  time  ;  nor  is  there  in  these  cases  the 
slightest  desire  to  resume  the  drinking  habit,  so  long  as  the 
other  stimulants  are  not  indulged  in.  In  other  words,  by 
living  correctly,  you  conquer  the  evil  habit. 

But  an  ounce  of  prevention  is  worth  a  pound  of  cure. 
Can  not  the  mothers  act  on  this  hint,  and  see  to  it  that  their 
sons  (and  daughters)  are  reared  in  such  a  way  that  vice  will 
be  no  temptation  to  them?  Solomon — who  must  have 
known  from  experience — said  :  "  Train  up  a  child  in  the 
way  he  should  go,  and  when  he  is  old  he  will  not  depart 
from  it." 
7 


84  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

Women  in  this  country  do  too  much  cooking  ;  they  prepare 
too  many  kinds  of  food  for  a  single  meal ;  they  literally 
load  down  their  tables  with  an  endless  variety  of  dishes, 
showing  a  lack  of  good  taste,  as  well  as  good  judgment. 
A  few  dishes,  well  prepared,  would  be  altogether  better. 
And  the  practice  of  high  seasoning,  not  only  in  dessert 
dishes,  but  in  the  plainer  or  more  substantial  ones,  as  vege- 
tables, meats,  meat  preparations,  etc.,  is  most  deplorable. 
These  highly  seasoned  foods  poison  the  blood,  congest  the 
liver,  and  inflame  the  mucous  surfaces  ;  and  if  long  con- 
tinued they  prostrate  the  nervous  system  and  ruin  the  gen- 
eral health.  "  That  machine  will  wear  out  the  soonest  which 
works  the  fastest."  Strong  constitutions,  it  is  true,  may 
not  give  way  for  years  ;  but  sooner  or  later  they  too  must 
succumb. 

Food  Combinations,  etc. 

Most  hygienists  recognize  the  fact  that  too  great  a  variety 
of  foods  eaten  at  a  single  meal,  is  not  favorable  to  the  best 
digestion ;  partly  because  it  tempts  the  appetite  to  over- 
indulgence, and  partly  from  too  great  a  stimulation  of  the 
nerves  of  digestion,  by  the  oft-repeated  presentation  of  a 
new  substance  for  them  to  act  upon.  But  very  few  pay 
much  attention  to  the  proper  combination  of  foods,  provided 
they  be  considered  hygienic.  Neglect  of  this  important 
feature  in  dietetic  reform  has  turned  many  away  from  it 
in  disgust  ;  and  it  has  kept  not  a  few  of  those  outside  from 
becoming  hygienists. 

It  is  folly  to  overlook  the  fact  that  there  is  a  certain  fitness 
or  adaptation  to  be  observed,  both  in  the  selection  and 
classification  of  foods,  which  enhances  their  value  as  a 
whole  ;  it  will  not  do  to  huddle  them  together  indiscrimi- 
nately, either  on  one's  plate  or  in  the  stomach.  Baked  beans 
and  grape  juice  are  both  very  satisfactory,  in  themselves  ; 
but  they  have  so  little  in  common  that  no  one  would  think 


PART  I.]  FOOD    COMBINATIONS,  ETC.  85 

of  eating  them  together  ;  though  the  harm  resulting  from 
so  injudicious  a  combination,  would  be  more  apparent  in 
some  cases  than  in  others. 

Not  every  one  has  a  cast-iron  stomach  ;  and  experience 
teaches  that  an  individual  whose  digestive  organs  have  be- 
come enfeebled  from  taking  drugs  (poisons),  or  from  the 
long  use  of  stimulating  foods  and  drinks,  has  need  to  be 
particularly  careful  in  the  matter  of  diet.  Suppose  he  is 
trying  his  first  "  hygienic  dinner  " ;  if  he  chances  to  partake 
of  two  or  more  substances  so  unlike  in  their  nature  and 
organization,  that  they  do  not  "go  well"  together,  in  less 
than  an  hour's  time  the  stomach  and  bowels  will  be  filled  with 
gases  and  undigested  food  ;  while  the  "  pangs  of  hunger," 
so  called,  will  not  have  diminished  in  the  least.  In  other 
words,  digestion  has  not  gone  on  properly  ;  and  a  certain 
morbid  craving,  which  is  next  to  ungovernable,  has  set  up 
its  clamor  for  something  that  can  "  satisfy."  And  though 
these  feelings  are  the  legitimate  results  of  long-continued 
dissipation  in  eating — or  of  some  other  violation  of  law — that 
fact  does  not  make  it  any  easier  to  bear  the  discomfort. 
More  than  once  has  a  patient  taken  his  first  meal  at  a 
"Cure,"  and  risen  from  the  table  with  the  firm  conviction 
that  that  diet  will  not  do  for  him  /when  a  little  care  (or 
knowledge)  on  the  part  of  the  managers,  in  the  matter 
of  combining  foods,  and  a  little  previous  explanation  as 
to  the  unsatisfied  feeling  that  necessarily  follows  the  leaving 
off  of  all  stimulating  substances,  would  have  induced  the 
new-comer  to  make  a  more  thorough  test  of  the  better 
way. 

The  early  Grahamites  made  many  serious  blunders  in 
their  first  efforts  at  dietetic  reform  ;  they  ate,  for  instance, 
their  "  bran-bread,"  which  was  a  wretched  food,  manufac- 
tured out  of  dirty  wheat  coarsely  ground,  or  from  a  mixt- 
ure of  poor  white  flour  and  common  coarse  bran,  making 
an  article  better  suited  for  horse-feed  than  for  human  stom- 


86  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  I. 

achs.  Of  course,  there  was  no  sweetness  in  it ;  the  pearling 
or  cleaning  process,  which  the  Akron  people  understand  so 
well,  was  not  then  applied  to  the  manufacture  of  Graham 
flour ;  and  the  bran  was  so  coarse  and  irritating  that  the 
"  Graham  bread,'3  as  it  was  called,  made  more  dyspep- 
tics than  it  cured.  The  consequence  was  that  those  who 
ate  it  were  a  by- word  and  a  reproach  ;  and  all  succeeding 
dietetic  reformers  have  been  forcibly  reminded  of  their 
folly,  by  the  keen  thrusts  of  a  scrutinizing  public — which 
always  looks  after  these  matters. 

Nearly  half  a  century  of  close  contact  with  invalids,  has 
placed  before  the  hygienic  physician  certain  facts  which  can 
not  be  ignored  ;  and  whether  the  science  behind  them  is 
fully  understood  or  not,  the  facts  themselves  remain.  For 
example,  if  we  have  a  nervous  dyspeptic  to  treat,  we  know 
better  than  to  set  before  him,  at  one  and  the  same  meal, 
strawberries  and  beets  ;  or  strawberries  and  cabbage  ;  or 
apples  (raw  or  cooked)  and  sweet  potatoes  ;  or  apples  and 
beans.  These  are  only  examples  of  at  least  fifty  combina- 
tions that  could  be  made,  any  one  of  which  would  give  a 
weak  stomach  indigestion.  The  question  then  comes, 
whether  it  is  not  possible  to  lay  down  some  general  rules, 
which  shall  apply,  in  a  certain  sense,  to  all  cases  ;  whether, 
indeed,  the  vanguard  of  the  "  hygienic  brigade  "  has  not  at 
last  reached  that  point  in  the  reform. 

It  certainly  stands  to  reason  that  the  food  products  of 
the  earth  should  be  studied  in  their  relations  to  each  other, 
as  well  as  with  respect  to  their  nutritive  qualities.  In  the 
first  place,  the  commissariat,  as  a  whole,  should  have  in  it 
all  that  is  needed  for  the  fullest  growth  and  development 
of  the  body  ;  and  there  should,  if  possible,  be  a  sufficient 
variety  to  allow  of  more  or  less  change  in  the  bill  of  fare 
from  one  meal  to  another,  and  from  day  to  day.  One  tires 
of  the  same  thing,  or  exactly  the  same  routine,  over  and 
over  ;  and  all  the  more  if  there  is  any  defect  in  the  food 


PART  I.  ]  FOOD    COMBINATIONS,  ETC.  87 

itself,  either  as  regards  its  quality  in  growth  and  maturity, 
or  its  actual  nutritive  value. 

Moreover,  the  wants  of  the  system  are  not  always  exactly 
the  same  ;  they  may  vary  somewhat,  owing  to  diseased  con- 
ditions or  torpor  of  functional  action,  so  that  there  will  be 
an  actual  need,  if  not  a  positive  longing,  for  certain  kinds  of 
food  that  are  necessary  to  restore  normal  action  to  the 
system.  For  instance,  a  person  who  has  taken  "  quantities  " 
of  certain  medicines,  the  effect  of  which  is  to  congest  or 
torpify  the  liver  and  other  organs  of  depuration,  is  apt  to 
have  an  intense  craving  for  acids.  Another,  who  has  been 
fed  for  weeks  on  a  diet  that  contains  too  little  nutrient 
material,  will  call  for  something  that  has  a  larger  per  cent, 
of  solid  matter  in  it  :  as  bread,  beans  or  peas,  rather  than 
cabbage,  turnips,  soups,  or  other  watery  substances. 

Many  a  person  has  risen  from  the  table  feeling  dissatis- 
fied, actually  hungry,  after  eating  in  quantity  a  full  meal. 
In  such  cases,  either  the  articles  eaten  have  not  been  di- 
gested, or  they  were  of  such  a  character  that  they  did  not 
supply  the  natural  waste  of  the  system.  One  who  has 
made  this  matter  a  careful  study,  can  very  nearly  tell  at  a 
glance  whether  the  food  on  the  table  is  such  as  will  give 
general  satisfaction  to  persons  with  reasonably  normal 
appetites, — though,  as  just  now  stated,  there  are  individ- 
uals whose  appetites  are  anything  but  normal.  For 
example,  the  tea-toper  or  coffee-drinker  suffers  from  head- 
ache after  trying  to  make  a  breakfast  without  the  accus- 
tomed beverage.  Or  the  lover  of  beef-steak  rises  from  his 
morning  meal  from  which  the  favorite  dish  is  absent,  feel- 
ing that  he  has  had  no  breakfast.  The  sense  of  all-goneness 
in  these  cases  is  not  from  a  lack  of  nutrient  material,  but 
owing  to  the  absence  of  the  habitual  stimulus. 

In  selecting  foods  for  the  table,  one  must  take  into  con- 
sideration both  the  habits  of  the  individuals  who  are  to  be 
fed,  and  the  ever-varying  climatic  conditions.     Persons  of 


88  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

sedentary  habits  would  be  satisfied  at  a  given  meal  with  a 
few  plain  articles,  and  these  largely  of  fruits ;  whereas,  a 
laborer  would  require  a  larger  proportion  of  more  nutri- 
tious foods,  as  Graham  bread,  beans,  or  some  of  the  grain 
preparations,  with  less  juicy  or  watery  materials.  If,  how- 
ever, the  weather  is  warm,  inducing  profuse  perspiration, 
the  more  juicy  fruits  and  vegetables  are  in  special  demand. 
But  a  combination  of  dishes  that  would  be  delightful  in  the 
sultry  days  of  July  or  August,  would  be  altogether  insuffi- 
cient to  satisfy  the  appetite  on  a  cold  December  day,  or  a 
keen  frosty  morning.  And  when  the  weather  is  not  only 
cold,  but  damp,  the  food  is  always  best  relished  if  it  is 
warm.  Often  a  good  plate  of  warm  soup  (not  hot),  to  be 
followed  by  corn-bread  and  baked  potatoes,  and  perhaps 
another  warm  vegetable,  is  very  acceptable  on  damp,  cold 
days,  when  there  is  a  raw  atmosphere,  chilling  one  all 
through. 

To  be  brief,  the  cook  should  use  her  rare  good  sense  in 
these  matters  ;  she  should  consider  the  character  of  the 
eaters,  whether  they  are  sick  or  well ;  accustomed  to  active 
outdoor  exercise,  as  farmers,  or  to  sedentary  habits,  as 
students,  book-keepers,  etc.  She  should  also  vary  the 
quality  of  the  food,  not  only  to  suit  the  weather,  but  the 
season  of  the  year.  In  May  or  June,  when  the  markets  are 
full  of  strawberries  and  other  fruits,  with  plenty  of  fresh 
garden  stuff,  the  "  boarders "  will  hardly  be  content  six 
days  in  the  week  with  dried  apples  and  prunes  for  fruit, 
and  old  potatoes  with  last  year's  beans,  for  vegetables  ;  they 
will  be  thinking  of  the  green  peas,  asparagus  and  new  pota- 
toes, that  they  saw  in  the  city  market ;  and  the  loads  of 
fresh  berries,  cherries,  etc.,  that  looked  so  inviting. 

Last,  but  not  least,  she  must  study  the  individuality  of 
the  various  food  products  ;  for,  as  already  remarked,  cer- 
tain kinds  are  so  unlike — not  to  say  antagonistic  in  char- 
acter, that  they  seem  not  to  digest  well  together  ;  or  as  we 


PART  I.]  FOOD    COMBINATIONS,  ETC.  89 

sometimes  say,  they  quarrel  with  each  other.  For  while 
it  may  be  true  that  thoroughly  sound  stomachs  can  digest 
almost  anything,  and  feel  no  unpleasant  sensations  from  all 
sorts  of  heterogeneous  combinations,  it  is  not  true  that  in- 
valids, or  persons  of  feeble  digestion,  can  do  likewise. 

After  more  than  twenty  years'  experience  and  careful  ob- 
servation, the  writer  is  fully  convinced  that  in  order  to  get 
the  best  possible  results  from  nutrient  materials,  we  must  not 
ignore  those  kindred  ties  among  food  products  which  make 
an  agreeable  combination  ;  nor  must  we  be  oblivious  to 
those  opposite  qualities  in  them,  which  by  fine  contrast 
please  equally  well.  Take,  for  example,  sweet  potatoes  and 
tomatoes  ;  these  make  a  good  combination,  and  very  ac- 
ceptable to  most  persons,  the  one  being  sweet,  the  other 
acid  ;  the  one  highly  nutritious,  and  the  other  decidedly 
juicy. 

To  those  who  have  not  made  this  subject  a  study,  the 
following  hints  may  be  of  practical  use  ;  though  in  many 
things  it  is  next  to  impossible  to  lay  down  definite  rules  : 

1.  Fruits  and  vegetables  should  not,  as  a  rule,  be  eaten 
together ;  that  is,  at  the  same  meal ;  if  they  are  so  eaten, 
persons  with  feeble  digestive  organs  will  usually  suffer. 

2.  If  vegetables  are  eaten,  the  noonday  meal  is  the  best 
time  to  take  them,  two  or  three  varieties  being  quite  suffi- 
cient. Tomatoes  do  well  with  vegetables,  grains  or  meats  ; 
but  they  should  not,  as  a  rule,  be  eaten  with  fruits. 

3.  The  Irish  potato  seems  to  be  an  exception  among 
vegetables  ;  it  is  so  unaggressive  in  its  nature  that  it  seldom 
quarrels  with  anything.  It  may  therefore  be  eaten  (by 
most  persons)  with  either  fruits  or  vegetables  ;  and  it  always 
does  well  with  grains. 

4.  Fruits  and  cereals  are  particularly  suited  to  the  morn- 
ing and  evening  meals  ;  and  very  little  other  food  is  re- 
quired. 

5.  A  good  rule,  when  suppers  are  eaten,  is  to  make  the 


90  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

meal  of  bread  and  fruit  only,  these  being  taken  in  limited 
quantities,  and  at  an  early  hour. 

6.  Fruits,  if  eaten  raw,  should  be  ripe,  and  of  good 
quality  ;  and  persons  with  feeble  stomachs  digest  them 
more  easily  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal ;  this  is  particu- 
larly true  when  warm  foods  make  a  part  of  the  repast. 

7.  Fruits  raw  or  cooked,  may  be  eaten  at  dinner,  provided 
no  vegetable  (unless  it  be  the  potato)  is  taken.  But  if  raw, 
they  should  be  eaten  first,  particularly  if  there  are  warm 
foods  to  follow. 

8.  Some  persons  can  not  digest  certain  kinds  of  raw 
fruits  for  supper,  or  late  in  the  day  ;  let  them  take  these  on 
sitting  down  to  the  breakfast  table  ;  or  the  first  thing  at 
dinner,  unless  there  are  vegetables  at  this  meal. 

9.  If  meats  are  eaten — a  debatable  question  between 
strict  hygienists  and  "  other  people " — take  them  at  the 
noonday  meal,  with  or  without  vegetables ;  and  in  cold 
weather,  rather  than  warm. 

10.  The  grains  digest  well  with  all  other  foods  ;  though 
some  persons  can  not  eat  them  in  the  form  of  mushes. 
They  should  always  be  thoroughly  cooked. 

11.  Persons  with  feeble  digestion,  should  as  a  rule,  con- 
fine themselves  to  a  single  kind  of  fruit  at  a  meal ;  they  can 
make  the  changes  from  one  meal  to  another. 

12.  Those  who  find  it  difficult  to  digest  vegetables,  should 
not  attempt  more  than  one  kind  at  a  given  meal,  until  the 
digestion  is  improved.  And  often  it  is  best  to  leave  them 
off  entirely  for  a  time. 

13.  In  selecting  vegetables  for  a  single  meal,  do  not,  if 
there  are  several  varieties,  have  all  of  them  of  the  watery  or 
juicy  kinds,  as  cabbage,  asparagus,  white  turnips,  etc.;  nor 
all  of  the  drier  sorts,  as  baked  beans,  winter  squashes,  sweet 
potatoes,  etc. ;  but  blend  the  more  and  less  nutritious  kinds 
in  a  judicious  manner.  Or  if  you  have  only  the  watery 
ones  at  hand,  be  content  with  not  more  than  two  varieties, 


PART  I.  |  FOOD    COMBINATIONS,  ETC.  91 

prepare  a  side-dish  of  something  rather  nutritious,  and  then 
add  a  dish  of  warm  corn  bread,  as  an  accompaniment,  par- 
ticularly if  it  be  a  cold  day. 

14.  If  you  have  for  dinner  a  thin  vegetable  soup,  follow 
with  something  more  substantial,  as  baked  beans,  baked 
potatoes  (sweet  or  Irish),  or  corn  bread  ;  but  if  you  have 
bean  or  split-pea  soup,  let  the  other  vegetables  be  of  a  kind 
less  hearty. 

15.  On  a  very  cold  day,  have  a  warm  dinner  of  good 
nutritious  articles  ;  select  mainly  solid  foods  with  grains, 
rather  than  thin  soups  and  watery  vegetables. 

16.  On  a  warm  day  make  the  breakfast  largely  of  fruits, 
with  a  moderate  supply  of  cereals.  The  dinner  may  be  of 
young  vegetables  (or  fruits),  a  dish  of  grains  if  you  like,  and 
a  little  bread.  Eat  lightly,  and  you  will  surfer  less  from  heat 
— particularly  if  no  seasonings  are  taken.  For  supper,  a 
glass  of  cold  grape  juice  and  a  slice  of  loaf  bread,  is  fine  in 
hot  weather. 

17.  In  very  cold  weather,  take  the  chill  off  your  stewed 
fruit,  fruit  pies  or  other  dishes,  before  serving  them.  Pas- 
tries if  used,  are  best  at  the  midday  meal — and  so  are 
puddings. 

18.  If  there  are  invalids  at  the  table,  they  should  eat 
nothing  that  is  very  cold  ;  food  not  much  below  blood  heat 
is  best,  particularly  in  cold  weather  ;  and  the  dining-room 
should  be  comfortably  warm. 

19.  Never  have  too  great  a  variety  at  a  single  meal ;  have 
few  dishes,  well  prepared,  and  make  the  changes  from  one 
meal  to  another  ;  this  will  please  better  on  the  whole,  and 
it  will  not  too  rapidly  exhaust  your  limited  supplies. 

20.  If  one  meal  happens  to  fall  a  little  below  the  average 
in  either  quality  or  variety,  see  that  the  next  is  fully  up  to 
the  mark. 


92  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  I. 

Two  Meals  oe  Theee. 

The  question  is  frequently  asked,  whether  it  is  better  to 
take  two  meals  or  three  during  the  day.  This  would  depend 
very  much  upon  the  habits  of  the  individual,  and  somewhat 
upon  the  healthful  conditions  of  the  stomach.  Some  per- 
sons can  digest  three  meals  perfectly,  while  others  find  it 
hard  to  manage  two  comfortably.  If  the  third  meal,  light 
in  quantity  and  simple  in  quality,  and  taken  at  an  early 
hour,  causes  distress,  then  it  would  be  well  to  try  leaving  it 
off.  Sometimes  a  longer  rest  will  enable  the  stomach  to  do 
better  work. 

Persons  of  sedentary  habits  combined  with  indoor  life, 
usually  find  two  meals  sufficient,  provided  these  can  be 
arranged  at  proper  hours.  When  two  meals  are  taken,  the 
breakfast  should  be  served  about  eight  o'clock,  and  the 
dinner  at  two  ;  this  gives  six  hours  between,  and  the  after- 
noon not  so  long  as  to  cause  hunger.  It  will  be  found, 
however,  that  a  great  deal  depends  upon  previous  dietetic 
habits.  Most  persons  who  have  been  long  accustomed  to 
either  two  or  three  meals,  prefer  not  to  make  a  change  :  the 
old  way  is  more  satisfactory. 

In  ordinary  cases,  it  probably  makes  very  little  difference 
whether  two  meals  or  three  are  taken,  provided  no  discom- 
fort is  experienced  ;  usually  where  the  digestion  is  fair,  and 
the  habits  of  the  individual  active,  three  are  preferred. 
The  third  or  last  meal  should  be  much  lighter  in  quantity 
than  the  others,  very  simple  in  quality,  and  taken  not 
later  than  six  o'clock.  This  leaves  three  hours  till  bed- 
time, putting  the  latter  at  about  nine  o'clock,  or  half -past 
nine  ;  long  enough  for  all  the  food  to  pass  out  of  the 
stomach,  and  leave  that  organ  in  a  restful  state,  ready  for 
the  night's  repose.  If  the  digestive  organs  are  not  strong- 
enough  to  accomplish  this  much  easily,  then  it  is  plain  that 
the  third  meal  should  be  left  off. 


PAKT  I.  I  DIETETIC    RULES. 


Dietetic  Rules. 


93 


Eat  slowly,  masticating  your  food  thoroughly  before 
swallowing  it.  The  first  process  of  digestion — called  insali- 
vation — takes  place  in  the  mouth. 

Never  eat  when  you  are  mentally  excited,  or  physically 
exhausted  ;  if  you  are  very  tired,  He  down  and  rest  half  an 
hour  before  going  to  the  table.  Neglect  of  this  rule  has 
caused  many  a  fit  of  indigestion. 

Do  not  take  vigorous  exercise,  either  physical  or  mental, 
immediately  after  eating.  Light  exercise,  as  clearing  up 
the  table,  washing  dishes,  or  walking  about  the  house  or 
garden,  facilitates  digestion  ;  but  heroic  exertion,  as  run- 
ning, pulling,  lifting,  washing  or  wringing  clothes,  etc., 
retards  it. 

A  bath  should  never  be  taken  directly  after  eating,  and 
particularly  after  a  very  hearty  meal.  A  good  rule  is  not  to 
bathe  for  half  an  hour  before,  and  for  two  hours  after 
eating. 

Take  your  food  regularly,  at  stated  intervals — not  at  any 
hour  of  the  day  ;  and  do  not  form  the  habit  of  eating  be- 
tween meals. 

If  anything  is  taken  outside  of  the  regular  meal-time, 
ripe  juicy  fruits,  as  apples  or  oranges,  will  usually  occasion 
less  disturbance  than  more  hearty  or  substantial  food. 

Let  at  least  the  greater  part  of  each  meal  consist  of  plain 
food  ;  and  do  not  continue  to  eat  after  the  actual  wants  of 
the  system  are  satisfied. 

The  supper  should  be  the  lightest  meal,  both  in  quantity 
and  quality  ;  and  it  ought  to  be  taken  at  least  three  hours 
before  retiring  for  the  night. 

Do  not  wash  down  the  food  with  a  fluid  ;  eat  without 
drinking  ;  this  will  insure  more  thorough  mastication  and 
insalivation  ;  it  will  also  help  to  preserve  the  teeth.  The 
horse  never  leaves  his  oats  or  corn  to  take  a  sip  of  water 


94  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I. 

between  mouthfuls  ;  nor  is  lie  ever  tortured  with  the  tooth- 
ache. 

It  is  a  bad  plan  to  rise  from  the  table,  rush  out  into  a 
freezing  atmosphere,  and  take  a  long  cold  ride  ;  the  body 
becomes  chilled  and  digestion  is  apt  to  be  interfered  with. 

A  few  minutes'  brisk  walking  in  the  morning,  filling  the 
lungs  with  fresh  air  at  every  breath,  is  an  excellent  tonic 
before  breakfast.  Try  it — you  that  are  not  too  feeble  to 
leave  the  room. 

As  a  rule,  fruits  and  vegetables  are  best  served  at  sepa- 
rate meals ;  vegetables,  if  eaten,  should  be  taken  at  dinner 
— near  the  middle  of  the  day. 

Eaw  ripe  fruits,  as  apples,  berries  or  cherries,  are  fine  for 
breakfast,  and  best  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal. 

Avoid  the  frequent  use  of  soft,  sloppy  foods  ;  and  also 
of  soft  bread  ;  give  the  teeth  something  to  do,  if  you  would 
have  them  grow  strong,  and  keep  clean. 

Do  not  take  very  hot  or  very  cold  foods  or  drinks  ;  these 
crack  the  enamel  of  the  teeth,  and  destroy  them  ;  they  also 
weaken  the  salivary  glands,  enfeeble  the  stomach,  and  im- 
pair digestion. 

If  you  want  good  teeth,  you  must  first  eat  the  kinds  of 
food  that  will  make  them,  and  then  you  must  use  them,  or 
they  will  decay.  Remember  that  a  cow  can  be  slop-fed  till 
her  teeth  will  fall  out.  To  preserve  the  teeth,  then,  you 
must  throw  white  bread  to  the  dogs  (and  it  will  kill  them  if 
they  are  fed  exclusively  on  it),  eat  bread  made  of  the  flour 
of  the  whole  grains,  and  have  it  well  baked  ;  it  must  be  hard 
and  crusty  enough  to  keep  your  teeth  clean  and  bright. 

To  secure  a  good  sweet  breath,  the  digestion  must  be 
perfect  and  the  teeth  clean.  Use  the  brush  after  eating,  not 
before.  Some  persons  brush  their  teeth  the  first  thing  in  the 
morning  and  the  last  thing  at  night ;  this  leaves  them  un- 
brushed  between  breakfast  and  dinner,  and  between  dinner 
and  supper — or  in  other  words,  only  clean  at  night.     Form 


PART  I.]  HINTS    ON    COOKING.  95 

the  habit  of  brushing  the  teeth  the  first  thing  after  you  rise 
from  the  table. 

Another  important  rule,  and  always  applicable,  is  the 
following  :  make  the  meal  as  enjoyable  as  possible  ;  a  cheer- 
ful face,  with  pleasant  conversation,  is  an  excellent  condi- 
ment. And  if  children  dine  with  "big  folks,"  let  them 
learn  at  the  start,  that  they  too  are  to  be  put  upon  their  good 
behavior. 

Hints  on  Cooking. 

The  following  hints  on  cooking,  some  of  which  apply  to 
Part  II.,  and  some  to  Part  III.,  may  be  convenient  for 
reference. 

In  making  loaf  bread,  the  flour  should  in  cold  weather  be 
slightly  warmed  before  mixing,  and  the  dough  set  to  rise  in 
a  wooden  tray  or  thick  earthen  crock — never  in  a  tin  vessel, 
as  the  dough  is  apt  to  chill  from  draughts  of  cold  air. 
Bread  to  be  good  and  wholesome  must  be  thoroughly  baked, 
having  the  crust  nicely  browned,  but  not  scorched  ;  and  it 
is  better  baked  in  pans  that  have  closely  fitting  covers ;  these 
confine  the  escaping  vapors  about  it,  and  by  preventing 
evaporation  make  the  bread  much  sweeter. 

Mix  all  pastries  lightly  and  quickly,  gathering  the  mass 
together  without  kneading  ;  have  the  materials  as  cold  as 
possible,  and  either  bake  as  soon  as  mixed,  or  lay  the  paste 
into  a  refrigerator.  Never  make  pies  or  cakes  till  the  oven 
is  ready  for  them  ;  roll  your  pie-crust  pretty  thin,  start  with 
a  brisk  oven,  hot  enough  to  brown  without  blistering  or 
scorching,  and  moderate  the  heat  as  the  baking  proceeds. 
Be  sure  the  bottom  crust  is  well  done  before  taking  the  pies 
from  the  oven.  This  for  cream  pastry.  Pies  made  of  apples 
that  are  under-ripe  and  their  crust  shortened  with  butter 
(which,  however  fresh  and  sweet,  is  always  less  wholesome 
than  cream),  are  improved  by  baking  an  hour  and  a  half  in 
a  very  slow  oven. 


96  HEA.LTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  L 

Nearly  all  vegetables  are  best  dropped  into  boiling 
water,  and  cooked  rapidly  ;  particularly  those  of  a  watery 
nature,  as  cabbage,  turnips,  string  beans,  young  peas,  and 
potatoes,  new  or  old.  As  soon  as  done,  lift  from  the 
fire  ;  cooking  a  little  too  long,  makes  all  the  difference 
in  the  flavor.  Cabbage  thinly  sliced  will  cook  in  thirty 
minutes.  Another  direction  applicable  to  nearly  all  vege- 
tables, is  to  put  them  on  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  having 
none  to  pour  off,  or  next  to  none.  As  a  rule  never  soak 
potatoes  or  other  vegetables  before  cooking  them,  and  never 
parboil  them — not  even  beans,  unless  they  are  very  old  and 
strong,  and  then  only  for  a  few  minutes  ;  when  the  water  is 
drained  off  replace  it  with  more,  boiling  hot 

Fruits  if  overripe  must  be  cooked  but  little,  and  taken 
from  the  fire  the  moment  they  are  done  ;  a  trifle  under- 
done is  fully  better  than  cooked  too  much.  All  green  or 
unripe  fruits  are  improved  by  starting  them  in  cold  water, 
and  cooking  or  simmering  slowly  (without  stirring),  for  a 
long  time.  The  long,  slow  cooking  makes  the  fruit  taste 
sweeter  and  riper. 

All  dried  fruits,  as  apples,  peaches,  pears,  prunes,  sweet 
currants,  etc.,  should  be  well  washed,  dropped  into  boiling 
water,  cooked  rather  quickly,  and  removed  from  the  fire  as 
soon  as  done.  Peaches  and  apples  dried  by  steam,  usually 
cook  in  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes,  and  sweet  currants  in 
thirty-five  minutes. 

Grains  are  best  steamed,  starting  them  in  hot  or  cold  water 
(rice  is  less  sticky  started  in  cold),  and  cooked  till  tender  ; 
the  water  in  the  pot  below  should  be  kept  constantly  boiling. 

Steamed  bread,  to  be  good,  must  be  well  managed  ;  as 
soon  as  the  batter  is  mixed,  pour  it  into  a  round  pan,  well 
oiled,  and  set  this  inside  the  steamer  ;  the  pan  must  not  be 
quite  full.  Then  cover  it  with  an  inverted  plate  or  pie-pan  ; 
and  if  the  steamer  is  one  with  holes  in  the  bottom,  place 
two  or  three  bits  of  wood  under  the  pan,  so  that  the  steam 


PAET  I.]  HINTS    ON    COOKING.  97 

can  enter  beneath  it.  Now  put  on  the  lid  of  the  steamer, 
the  latter  being  closely  fitted  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water 
and  cook  constantly,  keeping  the  water  at  a  fast  boil.  Do 
not  uncover  till  the  bread  is  done  ;  then  lift  the  lid,  take 
out  the  pan,  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  to  brown  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Steamed  puddings,  mixed  in  a  batter,  are  managed 
in  the  same  way,  except  the  browning  at  the  end. 

When  com  meal  is  used  in  mixing  either  steamed  breads 
or  puddings,  take  golden  or  white  flint  meal,  if  you  can  get 
it ;  and  fill  the  measure  not  quite  so  full  as  when  meal  from 
the  dent  corn  is  taken. 

In  making  puddings  or  steamed  breads,  never  heat  the  pan 
before  oiling,  as  this  will  make  the  batter  stick  to  it ;  a  little 
olive  oil,  or  beef  dripping,  may  be  used  instead  of  butter. 
In  baking  batter  puddings,  or  any  that  may  adhere  to  the 
sides  of  the  dish,  a  good  plan  is  to  place  the  latter  in  the 
oven  within  a  shallow  vessel  (as  a  dripping-pan),  containing 
a  little  boiling  water.  Custards,  if  baked,  are  best  managed 
in  the  same  way. 

Always  heat  milk  in  a  farina-kettle  if  you  have  one,  so  as 
not  to  scorch  it.  In  the  absence  of  this  utensil,  heat  in  a 
tin  bucket  set  inside  a  pot  of  boiling  water  ;  or  a  thick 
stone  or  earthen  crock  will  answer,  if  the  fire  is  not  too  hot. 

If  bread-crumbs  are  used  in  puddings,  dressings,  hashes, 
etc.,  have  at  least  a  portion  of  them  of  good,  home-made 
Graham  loaf,  unsweetened  ;  the  gluten  in  this  bread  makes 
it  richer  and  finer  flavored  than  the  white. 

In  preparing  sweet  currants  for  cakes  or  puddings,  pick 
them  over  carefully,  and  wash  in  a  colander  till  they  are 
perfectly  clean  ;  then  dry  in  the  oven,  being  careful  not  to 
overheat  them,  and  finally  dredge  well  with  flour  before 
Stirling  them  in. 

If  soda  is  put  into  bread,  cake  or  puddings,  use  it  spar- 
ingly. A  "  teaspoonful "  of  soda,  is  simply  the  spoon  filled 
until  it  is  level ;  and  the  same  for  cream  of  tartar.     But  if 


98  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  L 

baking-powder  is  employed,  the  spoon  must  be  heaped  some- 
what, owing  to  the  fact  that  nearly  all  baking-powders  are 
one-third  starch.  The  proper  proportion  of  pure  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar,  is  said  to  be  about  six  ounces  of  the  former 
to  sixteen  of  the  latter. 

When  eggs  are  used,  as  in  making  custards  or  puddings, 
beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately  ;  if  you  sweeten  first, 
whip  the  yolks  a  little  (to  avoid  lumping),  then  beat  with 
the  sugar,  and  stir  the  whites*  in  last.  Eggs  to  beat  well, 
should  be  fresh,  and  moderately  cold  ;  and  experienced 
cooks  say  they  should  never  be  beaten  in  a  tin  vessel,  but  in 
stone  or  earthen  ware. 

The  rule  for  custards,  is  to  cook  very  slowly;  and  if  baked, 
to  take  from  the  oven  as  soon  as  they  are  well  thickened — 
before  they  begin  to  separate,  or  become  watery. 

Soups  must  boil  or  simmer  slowly  till  done  ;  and  most 
kinds  need  three  or  four  hours'  cooking.  When  necessary, 
remove  fragments  of  meat,  bones  or  vegetables,  by  straining 
through  a  colander  at  the  last ;  return  to  the  pot  and  heat 
again,  before  serving. 

Meat,  if  roasted,  should  be  placed  in  a  hot  oven  till  the 
surface  is  seared,  and  then  bake  slowly  till  done.  If  stewed, 
pour  boiling  water  over  it  till  half  covered,  skim  if  neces- 
sary, boil  rapidly  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  then  stew  gently, 
till  a  fork  will  go  through  the  thickest  portion  of  it  easily. 
The  water  should  all  be  evaporated  when  done  ;  and  if 
finished  as  a  pot  roast,  heat  the  oil  or  gravy  in  the  bottom 
till  the  under  surface  of  the  meat  is  nicely  browned  ;  then 
turn  it  over,  and  brown  the  other. 

If  cold  meat  is  to  be  warmed  over  (as  in  a  hash),  do  not 
heat  too  long  ;  you  can  cook  a  good  hash  in  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  after  the  meat,  bread  and  potatoes  are  pre- 
pared. 

Cold  potatoes  are  best  warmed  over  as  follows  :  oil  the 
skillet  slightly,  just  enough  to  keep  them  from  sticking ; 


PART  I.]  HINTS    ON    COOKING.  99 

slice,  if  they  are  whole  ;  if  mashed,  see  that  a  second  crush- 
ing leaves  no  lumps,  and  stir  them  up  lightly  with  a  fork. 
AVhen  the  skillet  is  hot  turn  in  the  potatoes,  and  heat 
quickly  till  they  are  nicely  browned  on  the  bottom,  but  not 
scorched.  Then  with  a  knife  turn  them  over,  brown  again, 
and  dish  for  the  table.  Ten  minutes  will  suffice  for  the 
browning  ;  and  in  ton  minutes  more,  tli3y  should  be  eaten. 

To  toast  bread  perfectly,  cut  it  in  even  slices  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  brown,  not  too  rapidly,  over  a  bed  of  live 
coals  ;  the  bread  should  be  stale  to  begin  with.  Turn  it 
over  before  the  slice  warps  too  badly  ;  that  is.  if  you  are 
holding  it  on  the  end  of  a  fork  ;  then  toast  the  other  side, 
and  turn  again  if  necessary.  When  done,  the  entire  surface 
should  be  crisp,  and  an  even  chestnut  brown.  If  the  crust 
scorches  a  little,  scrape  off  its  burnt  edges  with  a  knife. 

To  warm  over  mushes  or  grains,  never  add  a  particle  of 
water,  not  even  boiling  ;  turn  into  a  stew-pan,  set  where  it 
will  heat  quickly,  cover,  and  stir  two  or  three  times  till  the 
mush  is  thoroughly  hot. 

To  warm  bits  of  stale  bread,  dip  the  slices  quickly  into 
cold  water,  and  lay  them  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes,  or  till 
the  surface  is  crisp,  and  the  bread  well  heated  through  ;  it 
will  be  as  good  as  new — better,  to  most  persons'  liking. 
Cold  biscuits,  split  in  two,  dipped  quickly  into  cold  water, 
and  then  heated  in  the  same  way,  are  excellent. 


V 


PAKT   II 


THE  HYGIENIC  DIETARY. 

To  those  who  are  acquainted  with  the  principles  of  hygiene 
as  expounded  by  their  great  originator,  the  late  E.  T.  Trail, 
M.D.,  it  is  needless  to  say,  that  a  strictly  hygienic  dietary 
is  one  in  which  the  grains,  fruits  and  vegetables,  are  all  pre- 
pared without  the  slightest  addition  of  seasonings  or  condi- 
ments, even  sugar  and  milk  being  excluded.  But  so  far 
removed  from  this  plan  are  the  usual  methods  of  cooking, 
and  so  great  the  prejudice  against  this  innovation,  that  it  is 
next  to  impossible  to  convince  people  that  foods  prepared  in 
this  plain,  simple  manner,  could  be  either  healthful  or  pal- 
atable. It  is  the  object  of  this  work,  or  rather  this  part  of 
it,  to  place  before  the  reader  a  collection  of  recipes,  which, 
with  little  or  no  alteration,  would  be  fully  up  to  the  standard 
of  Dr.  Trail  himself.  On  the  other  hand,  a  very  moderate 
amount  of  the  plainer  condiments — which  any  cook  can  add 
to  suit  herself — makes  these  (otherwise)  hygienic  dishes 
acceptable,  even  to  perverted  palates ;  while  as  respects 
health,  food  prepared  in  the  ordinary  way,  can  not  begin  to 
compare  with  this  diet.  It  replaces  the  waste  tissues  of  the 
body,  it  develops  muscular  strength,  and  it  satisfies  the  nor- 
mal appetite  ;  it  does  not  impair  the  digestive  organs, 
neither  does  it  clog  the  tissues,  nor  wear  out  the  vital 
machinery.     It  sustains,  it  nourishes, 


PABT  II.]  UNLEAVENED    BREAD.  101 

UNLEAVENED    BREAD. 

To  prepare  the  "  staff  of  life  "  as  it  should  be,  four  things 
are  necessary.  First,  we  must  have  good  grains ;  second, 
these  must  be  cleaned,  and  properly  ground  into  flour  or 
meal ;  third,  the  flour  or  meal  must  be  rightly  mixed  into 
dough  or  batter  ;  and  lastly,  the  dough  or  batter  must  be 
well  baked. 

The  whole  or  unhulled  wheat,  as  elsewhere  stated,  is  said 
to  contain  no  less  than  fifteen  elementary  principles,  all  of 
which  are  necessary  to  build  up  the  structures  of  the  body. 
Beneath  the  outer  or  woody  portion  of  the  grain,  lies  an 
abundance  of  glutinous  matter  ;  here  also  are  found  most 
of  the  carbonates,  phosjmates,  and  other  mineral  substances 
that  enter  so  largely  into  the  formation  of  the  teeth,  bones, 
cartilages,  etc.  Beneath  these  again,  is  a  substance  that  is 
composed  chiefly  of  starch,  the  elementary  principles  of  the 
latter  being  carbon,  oxygen  and  hydrogen.  It  is  this  part 
of  the  wheat  that  is  used  in  making  the  white  flour  of  com- 
merce, particularly  the  superfine.  So  far,  then,  as  the  num- 
ber of  chemical  elements  is  concerned,  Graham  flour  stands 
to  starch — and  proximately  to  white  flour — in  the  propor- 
tion of  fifteen  to  three,  or  five  to  one.  Now,  when  we  con- 
sider that  bakers'  bread  (and  that  is  what  the  masses  live 
upon  in  cities)  is  made  of  this  impoverished  white  flour  ; 
that  it  is  raised  by  fermentation,  which  still  further  impairs 
its  nutrient  qualities  ;  that  it  is  to  a  large  extent  impreg- 
nated with  alum,  and  is  often  half  sour  before  baking — we 
can  safely  say  that  this  is  about  the  slenderest  "  staff  "  that 
ever  a  living  creature  sought  to  lean  upon. 

Graham  (or  unbolted)  flour  is  too  often  manufactured 
from  small,  shrunken  grains  of  spring  wheat,  or  other 
poor  material.  This  is  why  there  is  ordinarily  such  a  large 
per  cent,  of  bran  in  it ;  too  much  entirely  for  either  good 
health  or  good  eating.     An  excellent  article  for  Graham 


102  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

flour  is  the  white  wheat,  of  which  the  Genesee  is  a  variety. 
This  has  very  nearly  the  right  proportions  of  hull,  gluten, 
etc.,  to  make  wholesome  and  palatable  breadstuff. 

On  the  quality  of  flour,  the  late  R.  T.  Trail,  M.D.,  in  his 
"  Hydropathic  Cook-Book,"  says  :  "  Unless  the  grain  is  well 
cleaned  before  it  is  ground,  we  can  not  have  the-  most  de- 
licious bread.  There  is,  too,  a  great  difference  between 
fresh-ground  and  stale  flour,  the  former  making  incom- 
parably richer,  sweeter  bread.  Those  who  *  eat  to  live,'  or 
to  enjoy,  had  better,  therefore,  look  well  to  the  kind  of  grain, 
to  its  being  thoroughly  cleaned  from  dust,  cockle,  smut, 
sand,  chaff,  etc.,  and  to  its  being  ground  but  a  short  time 
before  using."  "  The  wheat  meal  or  Graham  flour  in  market 
is  not  unfrequently  an  admixture  of  '  shorts '  or  '  middlings,' 
with  old,  stale,  soured  or  damaged  fine  flour  ;  and  fine  flour 
is  sometimes — more  especially  in  European  markets — adul- 
terated with  whiting,  ground  stones,  bone  dust,  and  plaster  of 
Paris" 

The  most  difficult  thing  after  the  selection  of  the  wheat, 
is  to  have  it  ground  in  the  best  manner.  There  are  but  few 
mills  in  the  United  States  that  make  first-class  Graham  flour. 
Either  the  wheat  is  not  cleaned  before  grinding,  or  it  is  cut 
too  coarse,  or  the  stones  get  hot  by  running  too  fast,  and 
"  kill  "  the  flour,  or  it  is  ground  or  rather  mashed  with  dull 
stones,  so  that  the  hull  is  scaled  off  in  large  flakes  of  bran. 
In  this  latter  condition,  it  is  so  coarse  and  rough  as  seriously 
to  injure  the  delicate  coats  of  the  stomach  and  bowels, 
especially  if  it  is  used  for  any  great  length  of  time.  This 
is  one  cause  of  the  prejudice  that  sometimes  exists  in  re- 
gard to  Graham  bread. 

All  flour,  of  whatever  kind,  should  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cool 
place,  and  in  a  pure  atmosphere,  where  the  circulation  is 
good,  as  it  absorbs  impurities  readily.  And  for  leavened 
bread,  it  is  said  that  the  flour  should  always  be  thoroughly 
disintegrated  (sifted  or  shaken),  and  in  very  cold  weather 


PART  II.]  UNLEAVENED    BREAD.  103 

warmed  before  mixing ;  a  process  which  would  help,  no 
doubt,  to  expel  any  gases  or  vapors  that  it  may  have  ab- 
sorbed. 

The  best  Graham  flour  in  our  market  is  that  manufactured 
by  Ferdinand  Schumacher,  of  Akron,  Ohio.  This  gentle- 
man has  built  a  mill  that  cleans  each  grain  perfectly  before 
grinding  ;  it  cuts  the  hull  fine  enough  to  pass  through  a 
coarse  corn-meal  sieve,  and  turns  out  an  excellent  article 
of  lively  Graham  flour  made  from  the  best  white  wheat. 
By  sending  for  his  "  w.  w."  (white  wheat)  grade,  we  get  the 
choicest  of  Graham  for  hard  rolls,  loaf  bread  or  pastries. 
Moreover,  this  flour  is  so  clean  and  sweet  that  it  will  keep 
for  weeks,  if  put  in  a  cool  place,  without  getting  old  or 
musty.  His  oat  meal,  pearl  wheat  and  pearl  barley,  are 
among  the  best  in  the  country,  both  in  the  quality  of  the 
grains,  and  the  methods  of  preparing  them  ;  each  grain  is 
nicely  dressed,  the  rougher  portion  of  the  outer  or  woody 
fiber  being  removed.  Cracked  wheat,  as  it  is  called,  is  pre- 
pared in  the  same  way,  before  the  kernel  is  divided  or 
cut.  The  ordinary  cracked  wheat  (now  fast  disappearing 
from  our  markets),  which  is  simply  crushed,  contains  a 
large  per  cent,  of  dwarfed  or  shriveled  grains  ;  the  hulls, 
which  are  harsh  and  fibrous,  are  comparatively  unbroken  ; 
and  were  it  not  for  the  "  dressings  "  that  usually  accompany 
it  at  table,  very  little  of  this  article  would  be  eaten. 

First  and  best  of  all  the  varieties  of  bread  preparations 
known  to  hygienists,  is  the  cold-water  bread  usually  called 
the  hard  Graham  roll.  It  is  made  by  mixing  wheat  meal 
with  pure  cold  water,  the  colder  the  better.  Properly  prepared 
and  baked  it  is  sufficiently  light  or  porous,  owing  to  the  air  that 
is  confined  within  its  texture  during  the  process  of  baking. 
Xo  other  kind  of  bread  begins  to  compare  with  this  in 
wholesomeness  ;  and  the  longer  one  uses  it,  the  better  it  is 
-elished.  It  is  substantially  what  Dr.  Trail  calls  the  perfect 
bread — or  Premium  Bread.     There  are  many  "  little  things  " 


104  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

to  be  observed  in  order  to  make  it  successfully  ;  the  manner 
of  mixing,  the  consistency  of  the  dough,  the  kind  of  knead- 
ing, the  forming  of  the  rolls,  the  spacing  in  the  pan,  the 
dispatch  in  getting  it  into  the  oven,  the  heat  required,  the 
time  it  should  bake,  the  test  as  to  when  it  is  done,  the 
cooling  process, — all  these  are  important ;  but  once  the 
cook  is  familiar  with  them,  this  bread  is  as  easily  made  as 
almost  any  other  ;  and  there  is  no  need  of  failure. 
The  following  is  the  recipe  in  full : 

Hard  Graham  Rolls.  =|= 

If  the  Graham  flour  is  of  red  wheat  or  coarsely  ground, 
it  must  be  sifted.*  Before  you  begin  to  mix,  have  the  oven 
heating,  and  the  bread  pans  clean  ;  they  need  not  be  oiled. 
Take  for  mixing,  the  coldest  water  you  can  get — ice-water, 
if  you  have  it ;  wet  the  flour  with  this,  using  a  little  at  a 
time  ;  that  is,  pour  in  slowly  and  stir  fast,  so  as  to  moisten 
the  mass  gradually,  allowing  no  little  puddles  to  form,  to 
make  the  dough  wet  and  sticky.  It  may  take  say  two-thirds 
of  a  pint  of  water  to  mix  a  quart  of  flour  ;  though  the 
quantity  will  vary  according  to  grade  of  flour  used  ;  the 
coarser  it  is  ground,  the  more  wetting  will  be  needed. 

Continue  to  mix  until  rather  a  soft  dough  is  formed  ; 
about  as  soft  as  you  can  well  handle.  If  you  get  the  dough 
too  stiff,  the  bread  will  be  dry  and  harsh  ;  if  too  soft,  it 
will  be  wet  and  clammy. 

Mix  in  a  smooth  bowl  of  common  yellow  earthenware,  if 
you  have  it ;  also  do  the  kneadirig  in  it,  as  the  dough  will 
not  stick  to  its  sides.  Knead  lightly  but  thoroughly  all 
of  ten  minutes  by  the  clock.  When  sufficiently  worked, 
the  dough  becomes  fine  and  smooth,  lighter  in  color,  and 
elastic  to  the  touch  ;  if  you  poke  it  with  the  finger  it  will 


*  Ordinarily,  the  terms  Graham  flour,  wheaten  meal,  unbolted  flour  (of 
wheat),  and  even  "brown  flour,"  are  used  interchangeably.  Unbolted  rye 
flour  is  often  called  rye  meal. 


PAKT  II.]  UNLEAVENED    BREAD.  105 

rise  or  spring  up  as  the  pressure  is  removed.  Then  take 
half  of  it,  and  roll  it  over  and  over  on  the  moulding-board 
with  the  hands,  forming  a  long  roll  about  an  inch  and  a 
quarter  in  diameter  ;  cut  this  off  in  bits  nearly  an  inch  and 
a  half  in  length,  or  large  enough  to  make  a  roll  from  three 
to  four  inches  long,  and  not  quite  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
thick.  Take  each  bit  separately  and  roll  it  firmly  together, 
making  it  smooth  and  round,  and  of  the  length  and  thick- 
ness just  stated.  Leave  no  dry  flour  on  it,  but  let  it  drop 
from  your  fingers  smooth,  straight,  and  well- worked.  As  the 
rolls  are  made  place  them  in  the  bread-pan,  leaving  quite  a 
space  between  each,  so  that  in  swelling  (as  the  air  expands 
in  baking),  they  may  not  touch  each  other. 

Make  out  the  panful  quickly,  and  on  no  account  allow  the 
rolls  to  stand  after  they  are  moulded,  lest  the  air  escape 
and  they  become  heavy.  For  the  same  reason,  let  the  oven 
be  hot  enough  to  brown  moderately,  almost  from  the  begin- 
ning, as  the  lightness  of  the  bread  depends  upon  the  con- 
finement of  the  atmospheric  air  within  its  crust,  which  forms 
around  the  roll  in  baking.  Hence,  the  more  crust  there  is 
above  the  flat  surface  of  the  pan,  the  lighter  the  bread  will 
be.  This  is  why  rolls  or  round  balls  are  always  lighter  than 
biscuits. 

The  more  even  the  heat  of  the  oven,  the  better  for  baking  ; 
it  should  be  hot  enough  to  scorch  white  bread.  If  too  hot, 
the  rolls  will  blister,  letting  out  the  air  ;  if  too  cold,  the  air 
will  escape  before  the  crust  forms,  and  in  either  case  the 
bread  will  be  heavy.  A  tolerably  good  rule  is  to  have  the 
oven  so  hot  that  you  can  hold  your  hand  in  it  just  long 
enough  to  count  ten,  rather  slowly.  A  little  experience, 
however,  soon  enables  the  cook  to  regulate  the  heat. 

Before  putting  the  rolls  in  the  oven,  prick  well  with  a  fork 
to  prevent  blistering.  It  will  require  about  thirty  minutes 
to  bake  thoroughly  ;  and  if  you  happen  to  get  them  thicker 
than  usual,  it  will  take  five  minutes  longer.     "When  about 


106  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

half  done,  turn  each  roll  one-quarter  over — or  a  good  plan 
is  to  shake  the  pan — so  as  to  brown  the  sides  ;  and  when 
quite  done  remove  from  the  oven,  and  turn  out  on  a  table, 
spreading  them  well  apart.  They  should  be  entirely  cold 
before  you  lay  them  in  the  bread-box,  as  they  are  apt  to  fall 
if  put  away  warm.  If  any  of  the  rolls  yield  to  pressure 
when  taken  between  the  thumb  and  finger,  they  are  not 
done,  and  must  go  back  to  the  oven  ;  otherwise  they  will 
shrivel  in  cooling,  and  become  heavy.  "When  cooled  a  little, 
place  them  one  layer  deep  on  plates,  and  send  to  the  table  ; 
and  what  are  left  over,  save  for  the  next  meal,  to  be  eaten 
cold. 

It  is  best  to  bake  fresh  every  morning  ;  though  any  rolls 
left  from  the  day  before,  may  be  warmed  over  as  follows  : 
first  break  each  into  two  or  three  pieces,  not  lengthwise, 
but  across  ;  never  cut  them  ;  then  drop  into  cold  water,  and 
let  them  stand  two  or  three  minutes.  Place  well  apart  in  a 
bread-pan,  and  set  the  latter  on  the  grate  in  a  brisk  oven, 
which  will  crisp  without  scorching  them  ;  remove  from  the 
oven  as  soon  as  the  bits  are  firm  enough  not  to  yield  to 
pressure.  If  properly  managed,  they  will  be  lighter  than 
when  newly  made — provided  the  rolls  have  not  been  over- 
done in  the  first  baking. 

The  above  bread  is  deservedly  the  standard  among  hy- 
gienists.  Among  people  in  general  it  is  a  new-comer, 
nothing  whatever  being  known  as  to  the  way  in  which  it  is 
made  ;  hence  the  fullness  of  detail,  as  just  given.  For  the 
benefit,  however,  of  those  who  are  already  partly  initiated, 
the  directions  are  given  below, 

More  Briefly.=|= 

Mix  Graham  flour  with  cold  water,  forming  a  dough 
about  as  soft  as  you  can  handle  with  the  hand  ;  if  the  flour 
is  of  red  wheat,  or  is  coarsely  ground,  it  must  be  sifted. 
Knead  very  thoroughly,  as  for  "  beat  biscuit,"  ten  to  fifteen 


PART  II.]  UNLEAVENED  BREAD.  107 

minutes,  or  until  the  dough  is  smooth  and  elastic.  Then 
form  into  rolls  three  to  four  inches  long,  and  barely  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick  ;  leave  no  dry  flour  sticking  to 
them.  Make  them  out  rapidly,  and  place  a  little  apart  in 
the  pan  ;  then  prick  well  with  a  fork,  and  put  them  in  the 
oven  ;  it  must  be  hot  enough  to  brown  nicely,  but  not  to 
scorch.  Bake  about  thirty  minutes.  "When  done,  the  rolls 
should  not  yield  to  pressure  between  the  thumb  and  finger  ; 
and  when  taken  from  the  oven,  spread  them  out  on  a  table 
to  cool.  They  may  be  eaten  for  breakfast  a  little  warm  ;  or 
you  can  lay  them  away  cold,  for  dinner  or  supper. 

Stems.  4= 

Mould  the  same  as  hard  rolls,  except  that  you  make  the 
stems  a  little  longer,  and  only  about  half  the  thickness  ; 
they  will  bake  in  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes,  ac- 
cording to  the  heat  of  the  oven.  They  are  very  sweet  and 
crisp  when  warm,  but  not  as  good  as  the  rolls,  after  they 
are  a  few  hours  old.  You  may  warm  them  over  the  same 
as  hard  rolls,  breaking  each  into  small  bits  before  wetting. 

Stems  and  rolls  can  be  made  of  rye  meal,  though  they 
are  not  as  good  as  the  wheaten. 

Cold- Water  Loaf  Bread. 

The  dough  for  this  bread  is  mixed  the  same  as  for  the 
hard  rolls,  already  described.  After  fifteen  minutes'  good 
kneading,  mould  into  small  loaves,  three  to  three  and  a  half 
inches  thick,  and  about  five  inches  in  length  ;  prick  deeply 
with  a  fork,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven.  The  heat  should  be 
as  even  as  possible,  to  avoid  blistering  or  scorching.  It  will 
take  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to  bake  the 
loaves  thoroughlv.     This  bread  must  not  be  cut  till  cold. 


108  health  in  the  household.  [part  il 

Cocoa-Nut  Bread. 

Some  weak  stomachs  can  not  tolerate  this  bread,  the 
grated  cocoa-nut  being  rather  difficult  to  digest.  The  usual 
way  of  making  it,  is  as  follows  :  to  one  quart  of  Graham 
flour  allow  half  a  teacupful  of  grated  cocoa-nut  ;  prepare 
the  nut  by  peeling  off  the  brown  or  outer  portion,  then 
grate  the  remainder  as  fine  as  possible,  stir  it  well  through 
the  flour,  and  mix  as  for  hard  rolls,  kneading  thoroughly. 
Save  and  add  the  cocoa-nut  milk,  if  it  is  perfectly  sweet ; 
mould  into  rolls  or  biscuits,  or  any  desired  form,  prick  well, 
and  bake  till  fully  done,  in  a  hot  even  oven. 

A  safer  way  for  invalids,  is  to  soak  the  grated  nut  in  a 
pint  of  cold  water  for  an  hour,  or  longer ;  then  put  the 
mixture  into  a  farina-kettle,  warm  to  blood  heat,  and  set  it 
back  on  the  stove  where  it  will  keep  warm  for  two  hours. 
Then  bring  almost  to  a  boil,  removing  the  kettle  from  the 
fire  just  before  the  cocoa-nut  water  begins  to  bubble.  Let 
it  stand  till  quite  cold,  strain  out  the  nut  and  use  the  water 
for  mixing ;  add  the  milk  if  it  is  sweet.  If  you  make  by 
this  method,  grate  the  whole  of  the  cocoa-nut,  and  add 
enough  water  to  cover  it  before  soaking  and  heating  ;  when 
you  have  strained  out  the  nut  and  added  its  milk,  use  as 
much  flour  as  the  fluid  will  wet  to  the  proper  consistency. 

Hot-Water  Kolls. 

These  are  the  soft  rolls  so  common  in  Water-Cures  years 
ago,  and  still  largely  in  use.  They  are  sweet,  and  tolerably 
wholesome,  especially  if  the  dough  is  mixed  rather  stiff,  and 
the  bread  very  thoroughly  baked.  To  make  them,  pour 
boiling  water  into  a  quantity  of  unsifted  or  rather  coarse 
Graham  flour,  stirring  constantly  with  a  strong  iron  spoon 
until  two-thirds  of  it  is  scalded  ;  then  finish  with  cool  or 
cold  water,  stirring  with  the  spoon,  and  forming  a  dough 
stiff  enough  to  handle  with  the  hands  ;  if  too  stiff,  the  bread 


PART  II.]  UNLEAVENED  BREAD.  109 

will  not  be  good.  Then  pinch  off  in  small  bits,  and  make 
into  rolls  an  inch  thick,  and  about  three  inches  in  length  ; 
form  by  rolling  on  the  moulding-board,  sprinkled  with  dry 
flour  to  prevent  sticking.  Put  them  into  the  bread-pan, 
spacing  so  they  will  not  touch  each  other,  and  bake  from 
thirty  to  forty  minutes,  in  a  very  hot  oven.  This  bread  is 
best  eaten  warm,  though  it  is  pretty  good  cold. 

Instead  of  rolls  you  may  make  into  biscuits,  two  and  a 
half  inches  in  diameter,  and  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in 
thickness.  Rye  flour  (unbolted)  can  be  used  instead  of  the 
wheaten — or  half  rye  and  half  wheat,  which  would  be  less 
sticky. 

Hot- Water  Loaf  Bread. 

Mix  as  for  hot-water  rolls  in  the  last  recipe,  having  the 
dough  a  little  stiffer,  and  kneading  it  longer.  Mould  into 
loaves  about  three  inches  thick,  and  five  inches  in  length  ; 
bake  all  of  an  hour,  in  a  hot  oven.  If  underdone,  this  bread 
will  be  wet  and  clammy  ;  do  not  cut  till  cold.  It  can  be 
made  either  of  wheat  or  rye  flour  (unbolted),  or  with  a 
mixture  of  the  two. 

Graham  Crackers.=|(= 

Take  sifted  Graham,  or  best  Akron  flour  unsifted,  and 
mix  as  for  hard  rolls  (first  bread-recipe  given),  only  a  little 
stiffer.  Use  very  cold  water — ice-water  is  best — and  knead 
thoroughly  and  very  hard,  all  of  twenty  minutes  ;  then  roll 
to  the  thickness  of  ordinary  pie-crust,  cut  in  any  shape 
desired,  and  prick  deeply  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  an  even 
oven  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  crackers  are 
dry  and  hard.  Let  them  get  quite  cold  before  stacking 
away,  and  then  put  them  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

If  the  ordinary  Graham  flour  is  used,  a  good  plan  is  to 
sift  it,  and  add  a  third  or  fourth  part  white  flour  of  the 


110  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IL 

coarser  brands ;   or  you  may  take  cold-blast  flour,  if  you 
have  it. 

Other  Crackers. 

Make  the  same  as  the  last,  using  cold-blast  flour  in  place 
of  Graham  ;  and  instead  of  rolling  out  the  paste  and  cutting, 
pinch  it  off  in  small  bits,  and  roll  into  stems  three  inches 
long  and  hardly  as  thick  as  your  little  finger.  Mix  with  ice- 
water,  or  the  coldest  you  can  get.  As  soon  as  moulded 
bake  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  thoroughly  dry 
and  hard  ;  when  cold,  set  away  on  plates. 

If  you  have  not  the  cold-blast  flour,  use  equal  parts  of 
sifted  Graham  and  "middlings,"  then  mix  and  bake  as 
before. 

Wheat  Meal   Crisps.  =|= 

These  are  sometimes  called  wafers.  Take  Graham  flour, 
best  Akron  (or  other  Graham  sifted),  and  mix  as  for  crackers 
in  the  last  two  recipes.  Knead  very  thoroughly,  pinch  off  in 
small  bits,  and  roll  to  the  thickness  of  a  knife-blade.  Bake 
in  a  pan  or  on  the  grate,  in  a  hot  oven,  and  be  careful  that 
they  do  not  scorch  ;  they  will  be  done  in  five  to  ten  minutes. 
This  bread  is  sweet,  crisp  and  tender,  as  well  as  very  whole- 
some, and  is  quickly  and  easily  made. 

Oat  Meal  Crisps.  =f= 

Scald  oat  meal  with  boiling  water,  stirring  with  a  spoon, 
and  making  a  pretty  stiff  dough  ;  knead  well  together,  dust 
the  moulding-board  with  a  little  Graham  flour,  and  roll  to 
the  thickness  of  nearly  a  quarter  of  an  inch.  Then  cut 
into  small  cakes  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes, 
or  till  they  are  dry  and  hard,  but  only  slightly  browned. 
Watch  closely,  that  they  do  not  scorch  in  finishing.  In 
rolling  out  this  dough,  it  cracks  badly  near  the  edges  ;  after 
using  the  cake-cutter  gather  up  the  ragged  pieces,  knead 
them  well  together,  and  roll  again. 


PART  II. 


UNLEAVENED  BREAD.  Ill 


These  crisps  will  keep  for  days  in  a  dry  place  ;  and  if 
heated  over  in  the  oven,  they  will  be  as  brittle  and  tender  as 
when  first  baked. 

Scotch  Oat  Cakes. 

In  Scotland,  the  oat  meal  cake  is  made  and  baked  as  fol- 
lows :  Take  oat  meal,  not  too  fine,  and  wet  it  with  water 
that  is  nearly  or  quite  boiling.  Mix  well  together,  making 
the  dough  as  smooth  as  possible,  and  roll  out  as  in  the  pre- 
ceding recipe  ;  but  instead  of  using  the  cake-cutter,  make 
one  large  round  cake,  and  cut  it  into  quarters.  Place  these 
on  a  griddle  (the  griddle  in  Scotland  is  supplied  with  a 
bail),  and  hang  it  over  the  fire  ;  when  nicely  browned  on 
the  under  side,  lift  from  the  griddle,  and  toast  the  upper 
side  to  an  even  brown,  before  the  coals.  These  are  essen- 
tially the  same  as  the  oat  meal  crisps. 

Oat  Meal  Bannocks. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  fine  oat  meal,  scalding  it  thor- 
oughly, and  stir  with  a  spoon  to  form  a  batter  considerably 
thicker  than  for  Graham  gems  ;  so  thick  that  it  will  scarcely 
drop  from  the  spoon.  Then  oil  a  bake-pan,  set  it  on  the  stove 
till  hot,  and  pour  the  batter  into  it  to  the  depth  of  about 
half  an  inch.  Separate  the  cake  into  four  quarters  with  a 
knife,  set  the  pan  in  an  oven  moderately  hot,  and  bake  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  without  scorching. 

Mush  Bolls.=|= 

Take  any  cold  mush  made  of  corn  meal,  Graham  or  rye 
flour,  oat  meal,  samp,  or  farina,  and  knead  into  it  enough 
Graham  flour  to  form  rather  a  soft  dough  ;  just  stiff  enough 
to  handle  with  plenty  of  flour.  If  too  much  or  too  little 
flour  is  worked  in,  the  bread  will  not  be  good.  Make  into 
rolls  three  to  four  inches  long,  and  nearly  an  inch  thick  ; 


112  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

then  bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  to  forty  minutes.     This  bread 
is  best  eaten  warm,  or  not  quite  cold. 

Instead  of  the  above  mushes,  cold  rice  or  cracked  wheat 
can  be  used.  If  corn  mush  is  taken,  white  flour  kneaded 
in  makes  a  very  sweet  roll ;  but  the  dough  must  be  mixed 
almost  as  soft  as  it  can  be  handled,  and  then  baked  in  a  very 
hot  oven. 

Wheaten  Gems. 

If  hard  rolls  are  the  best  of  all  the  breads,  gems  are 
among  the  poorest,  owing  to  their  soft  and  rather  moist 
texture  ;  there  is  a  great  difference,  however,  in  the  way 
they  are  made. 

Stir  into  cold  water  (ice-water  is  best),  enough  coarse 
Graham  flour,  unsifted,  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  batter — not 
thin  enough  to  settle  smooth  when  lifted  in  the  spoon.  If 
the  batter  is  too  thin  or  too  thick,  the  bread  will  not  be  light. 
For  ordinary  Graham,  unsifted,  two  parts  water  and  three 
of  flour,  are  about  the  right  proportions.  Beat  vigorously, 
and  dip  into  hot  gem-pans  of  cast-iron  ;  if  clean,  they  need 
no  oiling.  Set  them  on  top  of  the  stove  until  well  heated, 
and  fill  them  not  quite  even  full  ;  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven, 
thirty  to  forty  minutes.  Or  if  you  like  more  crust,  fill  only 
half  or  two-thirds  full,  and  bake  hardly  so  long.  If 
properly  made  and  thoroughly  well  done,  the  gems  will  be 
very  light,  spongy,  and  comparatively  dry. 

Fruit  Gems. 

Make  a  batter  as  above  of  unsifted  Graham  flour,  rather 
coarse,  and  stir  in  sweet  currants  ;  then  bake  as  before. 
The  currants  should  be  carefully  picked  over,  and  well 
washed  in  a  colander  before  using.  Instead  of  these,  raisins 
steamed,  or  partially  stewed  in  a  very  little  water,  and  mixed 
with  the  batter,  are  good  ;  the  seedless  raisins  may  be  used 
without  steaming. 


part  ii.]  unleavened  bread.  113 

Potato   Gems. 

Take  one  cup  of  warm  potato,  finely  mashed,  and  soften 
it  with  a  cup  of  tepid  water  ;  then  stir  in  Graham  flour  un- 
sifted, until  a  gem-batter  is  formed.  Beat  well,  drop  into 
hot  gem-pans,  and  bake  in  a  good  even  oven,  thirty  to  forty 
minutes. 

Hygienic  Kusk  Crumbs. 

Take  bits  of  unleavened  wheaten  bread,  and  dry  them 
thoroughly  in  an  oven  hot  enough  to  brown  slightly,  but  not 
to  scorch.  Then  break  them  in  a  mortar,  and  grind  in  a 
coffee  or  hand-mill.  Or  you  may  take  stale  Graham  loaf, 
grate  it,  brown  in  the  oven,  and  when  brittle  roll  fine. 
This  is  "hygienic  rusk  crumbs."  Serve  with  fruit  juice 
(some  use  milk),  allowing  it  to  soak  a  few  minutes  before  it 
is  eaten. 

Parched  wheat  may  be  ground  and  eaten  in  the  same  way. 

Corn  Preparations. 

It  is  sometimes  asked  whether  bread  made  from  corn 
meal  is  wholesome,  and  whether  the  yellow  or  white  meal  is 
best.  Corn  bread  is  rather  hearty  in  warm  weather  ;  in 
winter,  and  moderately  cool  weather,  it  may  be  used  even 
by  patients,  two  or  three  times  a  week  or  oftener,  without 
detriment.  As  to  quality  of  meal,  the  corn  best  fitted  for 
bread  is  the  genuine  "flint ";  the  "  dent "  corn  is  so  soft  in 
structure,  that  any  bread  made  from  it  is  apt  to  be  gluey 
and  heavy.  This  is  particularly  true  of  steamed  breads. 
The  real  "  golden,"  which  is  made  of  flint  corn  of  a  deep 
yellow  color,  and  is  common  in  Eastern  cities,  is  very  sweet 
and  good.  But  by  far  the  best  meal  in  our  Western  markets, 
both  for  bread  and  mush,  is  that  made  from  the  "  white 
flint "  corn.  A  poorer  quality,  common  in  the  West,  is  of  a 
pale  yellow  color  ;  and  a  still  poorer,  which  is  a  bluish 
white,  is  not  fit  for  bread. 


114  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IL 

One  great  difficulty,  both  East  and  West,  is  to  get  corn 
meal  that  is  not  ground  too  fine  ;  and  usually  the  better  the 
quality  of  corn  (as  white  flint  or  golden),  the  finer  the 
millers  make  it.  When  ground  so  very  fine,  it  is  next  to  im- 
possible to  make  good  "  lively  "  bread  from  it  without  the 
aid  of  baking-powder,  eggs,  or  fermentation.  On  the  other 
hand,  corn  of  poorer  quality  is  often  ground  into  meal  that 
is  entirely  too  coarse  ;  this  makes  bread  that  is  harsh  to  the 
taste,  and  very  irritating  to  the  mucous  surfaces  of  the  ali- 
mentary canal. 

Corn   Dodger. 

Mix  corn  meal  with  cold  water,  making  a  dough  stiff 
enough  to  handle  ;  then  mould  into  oval  cakes  about  two 
inches  thick,  put  these  in  an  oiled  pan,  and  smooth  the  top 
with  the  hand  wet  in  cold  water.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  forty 
to  fifty  minutes.  In  the  olden  times,  the  cakes  were  wrapped 
in  husks,  and  baked  under  the  embers. 

Corn  Dodger. 

Scald  the  corn  meal  with  boiling  water,  forming  a  dough 
or  batter  as  stiff  as  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Spread  it 
an  inch  thick  on  an  oiled  griddle,  turn  when  well  browned, 
and  bake  on  the  other  side.  Bake  in  all,  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes,  turning  two  or  three  times  if  necessary.  Or 
you  may  spread  it  in  an  oiled  bread-pan,  place  in  a  moder- 
ate oven,  and  bake  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  reducing  the  heat 
at  the  last. 

Hoe  Cake. 

Wet  the  corn  meal  with  cold  water,  making  a  dough  stiff 
enough  to  spread  with  a  knife.  Stir  thoroughly,  spread  it 
on  a  smooth  board  wet  in  cold  water,  and  prop  up  and  bake 
before  the  fire  ;  you  will  need  an  open  grate,  or  fire-place. 
On  the  Southern  plantations,  this  cake  was  baked  on  a  broad 


PART  II.]  UNLEAVENED  BREAD.  115 

hoe  ;  hence  its  name.  In  the  absence  of  a  board  you  may 
use  an  oiled  bread-pan,  or  griddle  ;  make  the  cake  from 
half  an  inch  to  an  inch  in  thickness. 

Corn  Bread.  =|= 

Take  coarse  corn  meal,  scald  one-half,  and  add  cold  water 
to  mix  the  rest,  forming  a  dough  moderately  stiff ;  then  beat 
hard.  Mould  into  small  oval  cakes  two  or  three  inches 
thick,  put  them  in  an  oiled  pan,  and  bake  from  forty  to  fifty 
minutes.  This  bread  is  very  good  warmed  over  the  next 
day,  by  cutting  open  the  cakes,  dipping  them  into  cold 
water,  and  laying  in  a  hot  oven  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 
Dough  mixed  in  the  same  way,  only  a  little  thinner,  can  be 
baked  in  gem-pans  ;  have  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes. 

Corn   Gems.=§= 

Take  a  quart  of  coarse  corn  meal,  scald  half  of  it  at  night 
with  boiling  water,  and  let  it  cool  to  blood  heat ;  add  the 
other  half  of  the  meal,  and  mix  with  tepid  water,  forming  a 
batter  as  thick  as  will  drop  from  a  spoon.  Let  it  stand  in  a 
warm  place  till  morning  ;  then  dip  into  gem-pans,  oiled  and 
hot,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  thirty  minutes. 

In  warm  weather  the  batter  should  not  be  mixed  at  night, 
as  it  would  sour  before  morning  ;  it  can  be  made  soon  after 
breakfast,  kept  in  a  warm  place,  and  baked  for  dinner.  A 
handful  of  Graham  flour,  added  after  scalding  and  cooling, 
is  an  improvement. 

Corn  Pone. 

Make  a  corn  mush,  and  cook  it  thoroughly  ;  while  hot,  stir 
into  it  coarse  corn  meal  to  form  a  pretty  stiff  dough.  Then 
add  more  meal,  and  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  dough 
that  you  could  mould  with  the  hands  ;  almost  too  stiff  to 
sto  with  a  spoon  ,  it  will  soften  on  standing.  Mix  thor- 
9 


116  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

oughly,  working  out  all  the  lumps  of  mush  or  dry  meal ; 
set  this  in  a  warm  place  for  several  hours,  or  until  the 
dough  begins  to  swell.  Then  without  working,  turn  it  into 
a  deep  round  dish,  iron  or  earthen,  and  well  oiled  ;  smooth  it 
lightly  over  the  top,  wetting  the  hand  in  cold  water,  and  place 
in  a  hot  oven.  After  it  begins  to  brown  reduce  the  heat, 
and  bake  two  or  three  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
loaf.  Take  particular  care  that  neither  the  top  nor  the 
bottom  crust  burns. 

This  bread,  properly  made,  is  sweet  and  delicious  ;  it  is 
good  eaten  cold  or  warm.  It  is  also  excellent  warmed  over, 
as  follows  :  cut  it  in  thick  slices,  dip  these  quickly  into  cold 
water,  and  then  either  steam,  or  heat  them  through  in  the 
oven.  Corn  pone  is  a  bread  well  known  in  North  Carolina, 
and  other  Southern  States. 

In  cold  weather  it  is  best  to  mix  in  the  evening,  let  the 
dough  stand  over  night,  and  bake  in  the  morning  or  fore- 
noon. Care  must  be  taken,  however,  that  it  does  not  get 
too  warm  or  stand  too  long,  and  sour  before  baking.  In 
the  early  days  this  bread  was  baked  in  a  deep  "Dutch 
oven "  (or  bake-ketfcle),  on  the  hearth  before  the  fire  ;  the 
oven  was  set  over  a  bed  of  coals,  covered  with  a  lid,  and 
coals  were  put  on  the  latter  ;  it  was  turned  from  time  to 
time,  to  let  the  loaf  bake  on  all  sides. 

Steamed  Corn  Pone. 

In  these  days,  when  bread  is  no  longer  baked  in  iron 
ovens  or  bake-kettles,  a  good  way  to  cook  corn  pone  is  to  steam 
it  till  half  or  two-thirds  done,  and  then  finish  by  baking.  Mix 
as  in  the  recipe  just  given  ;  and  when  the  dough  is  light  and 
ready  for  the  oven,  pour  it  into  a  round  tin  pan,  well  oiled, 
set  it  covered  in  a  steamer,  put  on  the  lid,  and  steam  two 
hours  without  uncovering.  Then  take  it  out,  place  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  bake  one  hour  ;  do  not  scorch  the  crust. 


part  ii.]  unleavened  bread.  117 

Good  Breakfast  Cake. 

Mix  a  corn  pone  as  in  the  last  recipe  but  one,  and  let  it 
stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night;  in  the  morning  dip  the 
batter  into  hot  gem-pans,  well  oiled,  and  bake  for  breakfast. 
The  gems  are  excellent. 

Rye  and  Indian  Bread. 

Take  two  parts  coarse  corn  meal,  and  one  of  unbolted 
rye  ;  see  that  both  are  fresh  and  sweet.  Scald  the  corn 
meal  thoroughly,  and  let  it  stand  until  lukewarm  ;  then  stir 
in  the  rye  meal,  until  all  is  well  mixed.  The  dough  should 
be  nearly  as  stiff  as  you  can  stir  it,  with  a  strong  iron 
spoon  ;  if  too  stiff,  add  a  little  warm  water.  After  mixing, 
pour  it  into  a  round  pan,  tin  or  earthen,  and  well  oiled  ;  set 
it  in  a  warm  place  two  or  three  hours,  and  then  bake.  Be- 
gin with  a  brisk  oven  until  a  thin  crust  forms  ;  after  this, 
bake  very  slowly,  from  three  to  four  hours.  Be  careful  not 
to  burn  the  crust  in  finishing. 

Instead  of  rye,  coarse  Graham  flour  can  be  used,  or  half 
of  each.  You  may  steam  this  bread  five  or  six  hours  if  you 
like,  and  then  brown  it  in  the  oven  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  ; 
longer,  if  you  want  a  good  crust. 

Rye,  Wheat  and  Indian.  4= 

Take  two  parts  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint,"  if  you  have  it 
— one  of  cracked  wheat,  and  one  of  rye  meal ;  if  rye  meal 
can  not  be  had,  take  coarse  Graham  flour  instead  ;  or  rye 
flour  may  be  used,  provided  the  corn  meal  is  very  coarse. 
Scald  the  cracked  wheat  well,  by  itself,  then  add  and  scald 
the  com  meal,  mixing  both  together,  and  forming  rather 
a  soft  dough  ;  let  the  latter  cool  till  lukewarm,  and  then 
put  in  the  rye  ;  this  should  make  the  mixture  about  as  stiff 
as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon.  If  you  get  it  too  stiff  add 
a  little  tepid  water,  stir  well,  pour  into  a  round  pan  well 


118  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT'IL. 

oiled,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  two  hours  ;  then  bake  (or 
steam  and  bake),  as  in  the  preceding  recipe.  Raisins,  sweet 
currants,  dates,  or  other  fruits,  may  be  stirred  into  the  mixt- 
ure before  baking  (or  steaming),  if  desired. 

This,  as  well  as  the  bread  described  in  the  preceding 
recipe,  is  excellent  baked  in  a  baker's  oven,  and  left  in 
several  hours  after  it  is  done.  It  is  very  good  sliced  and 
toasted,  when  it  is  one  or  two  days  old. 

HUCKLEBERRY   BREAD. 

Mix  together  three  cups  of  rather  coarse  corn  meal,  and 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  middlings  (rye  flour  will  do),  and 
wet  with  sweet  milk,  making  a  batter  that  will  pour  readily. 
Into  this  mixture  stir  one  full  quart  of  huckleberries  ;  and 
if  you  have  the  old-fashioned  brick  oven,  such  as  bakers 
use,  pour  the  batter  into  an  earthen  crock,  well  oiled,  and 
set  it  in  the  oven  with  the  other  bread  ;  do  this  in  the  even- 
ing, and  leave  it  in  all  night ;  or  if  you  bake  in  the  morn- 
ing, let  it  remain  in  the  oven  several  hours. 

This  bread  is  very  good  steamed  ;  let  the  batter  stand  in 
a  warm  place  two  hours,  then  stir  the  fruit  in  lightly, 
and  steam  two  hours  and  a  half  ;  brown  ten  minutes  in  the 
oven,  at  the  end. 

Rye  and  Indian  Gems. 

Mix  two  parts  rye  meal,  and  one  part  corn  meal ;  then 
wet  with  cold  water,  forming  a  batter  that  will  barely  drop 
from  the  spoon.  Beat  very  thoroughly  until  the  mixture  is 
creamy,  and  drop  into  hot  gem-pans  of  cast-iron,  slightly 
oiled.  Fill  the  pans  nearly  full  (unless  they  are  very  deep), 
and  bake  in  rather  a  hot  oven,  thirty  to  forty  minutes.  A 
very  fair  gem  is  made  of  all  rye  meal,  unsifted  ;  moderate 
the  heat  of  the  oven  in  finishing,  and  do  not  have  the  gems 
too  thick. 


part  n.7  leavened  and  other  bread.  119 

Snow  Bread. 

Stir  well  together  in  a  cold  room,  two  parts  of  clean  dry 
snow,  newlv  fallen,  and  one  of  com  meal ;  turn  the  mixture 
into  a  bread-pan,  smooth  it  till  level,  and  bake  in  a  very  hot 
oven.  The  cake  before  baking,  should  not  be  more  than 
two  inches  thick. 

LEAVENED  AND  OTHER  BREAD. 

The  preceding  chapter  has  told  how  to  make  "  perfect 
bread";  the  present  one  gives  some  of  the  best  methods  of 
making  imperfect  bread. 

The  question  is  sometimes  asked,  "  Which  is  worse  for 
the  stomach,  yeast  or  soda  ?  "  Perhaps  it  is  enough  to  know 
that  both  are  bad.  The  yeast — which  is  said  to  consist  of 
vegetable  infusoria — is  the  product  of  a  rotting  process, 
leading  step  by  step  to  actual  putrefaction  ;  and  as  such,  it 
destroys  certain  proximate  principles  in  the  grains  in  which 
it  is  used.  In  the  early  stages  of  fermentation  the  sac- 
charine matter  is  decomposed,  and  carbonic  acid  and  alcohol 
are  given  off  ;  as  it  proceeds,  the  starchy  substances  are 
destroyed,  and  acetous  acid  or  vinegar  is  formed.  Another 
step  in  the  downward  grade  destroys  the  gluten,  and  brings 
the  later  stages  of  putrefaction  or  decay.  So^that  yeast 
bread,  however  well  made,  is  deprived  of  a  part  of  its 
nutrient  material ;  and  poorly  made,  it  is  intolerable,  even 
to  the  taste. 

Soda,  on  the  other  hand,  is  an  inorganic  substance,  and  is 
used  with  an  acid,  forming  a  third  substance,  also  inorganic, 
and  therefore  indigestible  ;  this  remains  in  the  bread,  and 
renders  it  unwholesome.  Bi-carbonate  of  soda,  the  salt 
generally  employed  in  bread-making,  is  commonly  used  in 
connection  with  tartaric  acid — or  "  cream  of  tartar,"  which 
is  a  bi-tartrate  of  potassium.      In  the  reaction  that  follows, 


120  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

a  double  tartrate  of  potassium  and  sodium  is  formed  ;  these 
.salts  (which  are  left  in  the  bread),  are  nothing  more  nor  less 
than  the  "  Kochelle  Salts,"  which  are  used  in  medicine  as  a 
"  mild  purgative."  The  carbonic  acid  that  escapes  in  the 
process  of  forming  them,  is  what  puffs  up  the  loaf.  When 
there  is  not  sufficient  acid  present  to  combine  with  the  soda, 
a  portion  of  the  latter  remains,  giving  the  bread  a  yellow 
color,  and  a  very  disagreeable,  alkaline  taste. 

Pure  baking-powder  of  the  best  quality,  consists  of  the 
bi-carbonate  of  soda,  and  cream  of  tartar  (tartrate  of  potas- 
sium), mixed  together.  The  proportions  given  by  some 
chemists  as  the  best,  are  six  ounces  of  the  former  to  sixteen 
of  the  latter  ;  but  the  usual  rule  is,  one  measure  of  soda  to 
two  of  cream  of  tartar.  It  is  safe,  however,  in  actual 
measurement,  not  to  have  too  much  soda.  Bi-carbonate  of 
soda,  with  lactic  acid  (sour  milk),  is  considered  by  some  as 
less  objectionable  than  the  ordinary  baking-powder,  just 
described.  Instead  of  the  cream  of  tartar,  cheaper  sub- 
stances, as  alum,  acid  phosphate  of  calcium,  etc.,  are  fre- 
quently sold  ;  and  both  the  acid  and  alkaline  salts  (bi- 
carbonate of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar),  are  often  largely 
adulterated  with  various  foreign  and  injurious  substances. 

It  is  difficult,  therefore,  to  say  which  is  least  harmful,  the 
"  soda  bread,"  with  its  indigestible,  inorganic  salts  and 
adulterations,  or  the  yeast  bread,  which  at  best  has  passed 
through  certain  stages  of  decay.  Very  much,  however, 
depends  upon  the  management  of  the  yeast,  and  the  bread 
made  with  it ;  it  requires  great  care  to  have  it  just  right.  If 
the  process  of  fermentation  be  not  arrested  at  the  proper 
moment,  the  bread  will  be  sour  or  very  nearly  so,  and  ex- 
ceedingly indigestible. 

Never  buy  compressed  yeast,  and  on  no  account  brewers' 
yeast  ;  if  you  want  first-class  bread,  your  own  hop  yeast, 
well  made,  is  infinitely  better  than  either.  All  brewers* 
yeast  hastens  the  process  of  fermentation  so  rapidly,  that 


PART  II.  j  LEAVENED    AND    OTHER    BREAD.  121 

most  of  the  sweetness  is  gone  from  the  bread  before  it  can 
be  raised  and  baked. 

The  following  recipe  for  making  yeast,  is  one  of  the  best ; 
and  the  one  given  after  it,  is  nearly  or  quite  as  good. 

Hop  Yeast.  =|)= 

1  cup  grated  potato. 

1     "     white  sugar. 

£     "     salt. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  ginger. 

1  pint  good  hop  yeast. 

4|-  quarts  boiling  water. 

1  good  handful  of  dry  hops. 

Pour  three  pints  of  boiling  water  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
put  in  the  hops,  and  boil  ten  minutes  ;  then  cool,  and  strain 
through  a  coarse  muslin  bag.  Put  into  a  separate  vessel 
three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  add  the  grated  potato  ; 
the  potatoes  must  be  good  and  sound  ;  boil  three  minutes, 
and  strain  ;  or  you  may  rub  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Eeturn 
the  potato-water  to  the  kettle  (this  should  be  granitized  iron 
or  porcelain-lined),  and  add  the  hop-liquor,  along  with  the 
salt  and  sugar  ;  heat  to  boiling,  and  skim  well ;  then  boil  all 
together  eight  minutes.  Pour  the  hot  mixture  into  a  stone 
jar  large  enough  to  allow  it  to  ferment,  and  stir  into  it  a 
tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger,  moistened  with  a  little 
warm  water.  When  cooled  to  lukewarm,  add  one  pint  of 
good  yeast  left  from  the  previous  making,  and  beat  very 
thoroughly.  Let  the  yeast  stand  in  the  kitchen,  or  in  some 
moderately  warm  place,  twenty-four  hours,  or  until  it  ceases 
to  send  up  bubbles  ;  then  put  it  into  a  clean  stone  jug,  cork 
tight,  and  set  it  (in  warm  weather)  in  the  coolest  part  of 
the  cellar.  Shake  well  from  the  bottom,  each  time  before 
using.     In  very  cold  weather,  do  not  let  it  get  chilled. 

This  yeast  has  been  thoroughly  tested  for  years  ;  it  will 


122  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

keep  six  or  eight  weeks,  or  longer,  in  a  cool  place  ;  and  with 
even  tolerable  management,  you  need  never  have  sour 
bread.  Always  save  a  pint  to  start  with  next  time  ;  if  you 
are  starting  for  the  first  time,  either  make  the  self -working 
yeast  (next  recipe  but  one),  and  start  with  that,  or  else  with 
bakers'  yeast,  or  good  hop  yeast,  which  is  the  same  thing. 
Never  use  brewers'  yeast,  as  it  gives  the  bread  a  strong, 
bitter  taste  ;  and  bread  raised  with  it  is  apt  to  sour. 

Hop  Yeast. 

4  tablespoonfuls  grated  potato. 
2  "  white  flour. 

4  "  sugar. 

2  "  salt. 

1  tablespoonful   ginger. 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  with  cold  water,  to  form  a  stiff 
paste.  Then  put  a  double  handful  of  hops  into  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  boil  ten  minutes,  cool  to  lukewarm,  and 
strain  out  the  hops  ;  pour  this  water  over  the  paste,  stir  till 
the  whole  is  well  mixed,  and  boil  three  minutes  ;  when  the 
fluid  is  cooled  to  lukewarm,  stir  in  a  pint  of  good  yeast,  and 
beat  well.  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  room  till  it  ferments  ; 
then  pour  into  a  stone  or  glass  jar,  tie  a  clean  cloth  over  it, 
and  set  it  in  the  cellar  or  other  cool  place. 

If  you  have  no  suitable  place  to  keep  it,  make  it  into 
cakes,  as  follows  :  Stir  in  fine  corn  meal,  until  a  stiff  dough 
is  formed  ;  then  roll  to  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness, and  cut  into  small  cakes.  Set  these  in  a  very  moderate 
oven,  or  in  the  sunshine,  and  when  fully  dry  and  cold,  tie 
them  in  a  paper  sack  to  preserve  their  strength,  and  hang 
in  a  dry  place  ;  they  will  keep  several  weeks,  in  cool 
weather. 


part  ii.]  leavened  and  other  bread.  123 

Self-Working  Yeast. 

In  making  yeast  it  is  often  difficult  to  get  a  good  article 
to  start  with  ;  in  such  cases  a  self -working  yeast  would  be 
of  advantage.  The  following  recipe  is  from  "Common 
Sense  in  the  Household,"  which  is  good  authority: 

8  potatoes. 

2  ounces  hops. 

4  quarts  cold  water. 

1  lb.  flour. 

i  lb.  white  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

"  Tie  the  hops  in  a  coarse  muslin  bag,  and  boil  one  hour 
in  four  quarts  of  water.  Let  it  cool  to  lukewarm  before 
removing  the  bag.  Wet  the  flour  with  the  tepid  liquor — a 
little  at  a  time — making  a  smooth  paste.  Put  in  the  sugar 
and  salt,  and  beat  up  the  batter  three  minutes  before  add- 
ing the  rest  of  the  tea.  Set  it  away  for  two  days  in  an  open 
bowl  covered  with  a  thin  cloth,  in  a  closet  which  is  mod- 
erately and  evenly  warm. 

"  On  the  third  day,  peel,  boil  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and 
when  entirely  free  from  lumps  and  specks,  stir  in  gradually 
the  thickened  hop-liquor.  Let  it  stand  twelve  hours  longer 
in  the  bowl,  stirring  often,  and  keeping  it  in  the  warm 
kitchen.  Then  bottle,  or  put  away  in  corked  jars,  which 
must  be  perfectly  sweet,  and  freshly  scalded.  This  will 
keep  a  month,  in  a  cool  cellar.  It  is  more  troublesome  to 
make  than  other  kinds  of  yeast,  but  it  needs  no  other '  rising  ' 
to  excite  fermentation,  and  remains  good  longer  than  that 
made  in  the  usual  way." 

Leavened  Graham  Bread. — (General  Directions.) 

To  the  inexperienced  housewife,  the  following  directions 
for  making  Graham  bread  with  yeast,  will  be  convenient  for 


124  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

reference.     Though  the  best  of  rules  may  fail,  without  that 
rare  counterpart,  known  as  good  management. 

1.  See  that  the  yeast  is  good,  and  the  flour  the  same. 

2.  If  you  like  moist  bread,  scald  a  cup  or  part  of  a  cup  of 
flour,  and  cool  to  blood  heat ;  then  add  warm  water,  the 
yeast,  and  just  enough  flour  to  form  a  batter  that  will  drop 
(not  pour)  from  the  spoon. 

3.  If  bread  rather  dry  and  flaky  is  preferred,  omit  the 
scalding,  and  make  the  sponge  a  little  thinner  ;  thin  enough 
to  pour  from  the  spoon,  but  not  too  easily. 

4.  You  may  use  for  the  sponge,  either  Graham  or  white 
flour,  sifted  ;  most  persons  prefer  the  white,  perhaps  from 
the  fact  that  ordinary  Graham  is  inferior  in  quality,  and 
the  sponge  made  of  it  apter  to  sour.  Mix  with  water  not 
warmer  than  blood  heat,  add  the  yeast,  and  beat  till  you 
have  a  smooth  batter  ;  you  may  allow  of  good  hop  yeast, 
about  half  a  cup  to  a  quart  of  water. 

5.  Set  the  sponge  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  do  not  let 
it  get  too  light ;  in  summer,  you  can  leave  it  on  the  kitchen 
table.  In  winter,  it  is  better  to  set  it  on  the  tank  of  hot 
water  at  the  back  of  the  stove — or  if  you  have  a  range, 
place  on  the  shelf  above  it. 

6.  Mix  the  bread  as  soon  as  the  sponge  is  ready  ;  many  «. 
batch  has  been  spoiled,  through  neglect  of  this  rule.  When 
the  batter  begins  to  send  up  little  bubbles,  the  fermentation 
has  commenced  ;  and  by  the  time  the  whole  mass  looks 
light,  and  rather  foamy,  proceed  to  mix. 

7.  In  cold  weather  warm  the  flour  a  little,  before  you 
make  the  bread  ;  and  if  ordinary  Graham  is  used,  sift  it ; 
best  Akron  is  fine  enough  without. 

8.  Use  for  wetting,  simply  the  sponge — no  water.  And 
for  moist  bread  (which  has  the  stiffer  sponge,  with  scalded 
flour  in  it),  mix  very  soft ;  entirely  too  soft  for  kneading. 
Simply  work  the  mass  well  with  the  hands  (in  the  tray),  till 
it  is  thoroughly  mixed ;  then  scrape  the  dough  from  your 


PART  II.]  LEAVENED   AND    OTHER   BREAD.  125 

lingers  with  a  knife,  and  smooth  off  the  top.  Now  sprinkle 
lightly  with  flour,  cover  with  several  folds  of  old  table-linen, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  ;  it  may  take  several  hours, 
or  over  night.  When  risen,  the  dough  will  have  stiffened 
somewhat ;  then  knead  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  (according  to 
quantity),  working  in  very  little  flout'. 

9.  But  for  bread  that  is  rather  dry  and  flaky,  mix  the 
dough  (with  a  sponge  that  will  just  pour)  considerably 
stiffer  ;  stiff  enough  to  leave  the  sides  of  the  tray  ;  then  lift 
to  the  bread-board,  and  knead  vigorously  about  fifteen 
minutes.  When  worked  enough,  the  dough  becomes  elastic  ; 
if  you  give  it  a  poke  with  the  finger,  or  with  your  closed 
fist,  it  will  rise  or  spring  up  when  the  pressure  is  removed. 
Then  return  it  to  the  tray — over  the  bottom  of  which  yuu 
have  sprinkled  a  little  flour — cover,  and  set  to  rise. 

10.  Always  mix  in  a  warm  room,  so  as  not  to  chill  the 
bread  ;  in  very  cold  weather,  you  may  protect  it  from 
draughts  of  air  by  covering  with  several  folds  of  thick 
flannel,  kept  for  the  purpose. 

11.  When  the  weather  is  cool  or  cold,  make  the  sponge  in 
the  afternoon  or  evening,  and  mix  the  bread  before  bed- 
time. Next  morning  knead,  and  form  into  loaves,  then  set 
to  rise,  and  bake. 

12.  In  very  warm  weather,  make  the  sponge  in  the  morn- 
ing ;  this  enables  you  to  mix,  set  to  rise,  mould,  and  finally 
bake,  all  in  the  daytime  ;  whereas,  the  dough  would  almost 
certainly  sour,  if  it  had  to  stand  over  night. 

13.  Do  not  let  the  bread  get  too  light,  in  either  the  first 
or  second  rising  ;  when  it  has  doubled  in  volume,  it  is  just 
about  ready  for  moulding  or  baking. 

14.  Allow  sufficient  time  for  the  fermentation  ;  do  not 
hasten  or  force  it,  by  keeping  either  the  sponge  or  bread 
too  warm  ;  neither  must  you  let  it  chill  before  fermentation 
begins. 

15.  Mould  into  small  loaves,  having  a  pan  for  each  ;  this 


126  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II, 

favors  thorough  baking  ;  it  also  gives  more  crust,  which  is 
the  sweetest  part  of  the  bread. 

16.  Have  a  good  even  oven,  and  not  too  hot  in  the  outset ; 
the  heat  should  permeate  the  loaf  gradually,  giving  it  time 
to  swell  a  little  before  the  crust  forms. 

17.  You  must  allow  a  longer  time  for  baking  Graham 
bread  than  you  would  for  white  ;  forty  to  fifty  minutes  for 
small  loaves,  and  about  an  hour  for  large  ones. 

18.  Have  the  oven  a  little  hotter  for  Graham  than  for 
white  bread  ;  moderate  the  heat  toward  the  last,  and  finish 
without  the  slightest  approach  to  scorching ;  the  crust 
should  be  a  good  chestnut  brown,  neither  too  thick  nor  too 
thin. 

19.  When  taken  from  the  oven  turn  the  loaves  out  of  the 
pans,  and  lean  them  up  endwise  against  something  till 
cold  ;  then  wrap  in  clean  old  linen,  and  pat  into  the  bread- 
box,  also  clean. 

20.  The  next  day  (or  several  hours  after  baking),  cut  in 
even  slices,  not  too  thick,  and  the  last  thing  before  sending 
to  the  table.  Do  not  leave  the  cut  loaf  standing,  to  dry  out ; 
either  wrap  in  a  clean  cloth,  or  lay  it  back  in.  the  box. 

Briefly  stated,  leavened  Graham  bread  differs  from  white 
in  the  following  particulars  :  it  requires  less  kneading  by 
about  one-half  ;  it  takes  a  little  longer  time  for  baking,  and 
rather  a  hotter  fire  ;  and — for  moist  bread — it  is  mixed  as 
soft  as  it  can  be  handled.  In  other  respects  the  manage- 
ment is  essentially  the  same,  either  for  Graham  or  white 
bread. 

The  best  pans  for  baking  loaf  or  other  bread,  are  made 
with  closely  fitting  covers  or  lids,  which  confine  the  heated 
air  about  the  bread,  and  prevent  its  sweetness  from  being 
lost  in  the  exhaled  vapors.  These  pans  may  be  made  of 
tin  or  sheet-iron,  with  a  cover  of  the  same  material.  The 
bread  that  our  grandmothers  baked  in  the  old-fashioned 
oven  or  bake-kettle,  owed  its  superior  sweetness  to  the  fact 


I'AKT  II.  J  LEAYENED   AND    OTHER    BREAD.  127 

that  the  loaf  was  placed  in  a  confined  atmosphere.  If  bread 
is  baked  in  open  pans,  the  big  brick  (or  stone)  oven  which 
bakers  use,  is  best ;  it  takes  in  a  great  many  loaves  at  once, 
and  confines  the  heated  air  about  them.  But  as  private 
families  can  not  all  be  supplied  with  bakers'  ovens,  there  is 
no  way  but  to  use  the  ordinary  cook-stove. 

Leavened  Graham  Bread.  =§= 

Make  a  sponge  by  taking  three  pints  of  warm  water,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  yeast,  and  enough  white  flour  to  thicken. 
Have  the  water  no  warmer  than  blood  heat ;  then  stir  in 
part  of  the  flour,  add  the  yeast,  and  enough  more  flour  to 
make  a  batter  that  will  pour  from  the  spoon,  but  not  too 
readily.  Beat  till  smooth,  and  then  set  to  rise  in  a  warm 
place.  In  all  but  the  very  hottest  weather  make  the  sponge 
in  the  afternoon,  say  between  four  and  five  o'clock,  or  in 
time  to  mix  the  bread  before  bed-time  ;  if  the  yeast  and 
flour  are  good,  and  the  temperature  just  right,  the  sponge 
should  be  light  enough  in  three  hours,  or  less  time. 

When  ready,  sift  into  the  mixing  bowl — a  clean  wooden 
tray,  if  you  have  it — three  quarts  of  Graham  flour,  or  enough 
to  form  a  dough  that  you  can  mould  ;  if  best  Akron  is 
used,  omit  the  sifting.  Before  you  begin  to  mix,  dip  out  a 
pint  of  the  flour  to  work  in  at  the  last,  if  needed  ;  then 
make  a  well  in  the  center  of  the  remainder,  pour  in  the 
sponge,  and  gradually  mix  in  the  flour,  being  careful  not 
to  get  the  dough  too  soft,  nor  yet  very  stiff.  As  soon  as  it 
will  leave  the  sides  of  the  tray,  lift  to  a  bread-board  and 
knead  thoroughly  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  sprinkle 
a  little  flour  over  the  bottom  of  the  tray,  and  lay  in '  the 
kneaded  bread  ;  cover  with  several  folds  of  old  linen,  and 
leave  on  the  kitchen  table,  or  in  some  other  moderately 
warm  place,  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  coldest  weather, 
warm  the  flour  a  little  before  you  mix  ;  and  when  you  set 


128  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

the  bread  to  rise,  it  may  be  well  to  throw  a  folded  blanket 
over  it ;  or  you  may  carry  it  to  the  furnace  room,  after  the 
fire  is  low. 

Next  morning,  the  bread  having  risen  to  twice  its  first 
volume,  is  waiting  a  second  kneading.  If  this  can  not  be 
done  immediately,  you  will  have  to  set  it  in  a  cold  room, 
lest  it  get  too  light ;  and  bread  that  has  risen  overmuch  is 
never  sweet.  The  only  really  safe  rule,  is  to  knead  as  soon 
as  the  batch  is  ready  ;  ten  minutes'  light  kneading  will  be 
long  enough.  Mould  into  small  loaves  (this  amount  of 
dough  will  make  five  or  six),  put  them  into  separate  pans, 
cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  ;  in  half  an  hour,  or  when 
they  have  risen  to  double  their  former  size,  place  in  a  very 
moderate  oven ;  do  not  forget  this  last  item,  as  the  bread 
should  swell  a  little  before  its  surface  hardens.  Follow  with  a 
steady  heat — rather  hotter  than  for  white  bread — and  bake 
from  forty  to  fifty  minutes  ;  larger  loaves  would  require 
about  an  hour  ;  reduce  the  heat  toward  the  last,  and  finish 
with  an  evenly  browned  crust,  not  the  least  bit  scorched.  If 
on  removing  from  the  oven,  any  of  the  loaves  are  not  firm 
to  the  touch  and  well  browned,  top,  sides  and  bottom,  they 
must  be  set  back  a  few  minutes,  for  further  baking. 

As  soon  as  done,  stand  each  loaf  endwise,  leaning  against 
a  stone  jar  or  other  upright  object,  on  the  kitchen  table  ; 
this  will  admit  the  air  on  all  sides,  leaving  the  crust  dry  and 
brittle,  not  soft  and  tough.  When  thoroughly  cold  wrap  in 
a  clean  cloth,  and  lay  in  the  bread-box  ;  cut  the  next  day. 
After  the  bread  is  two  or  three  days  old,  you  may  slice  and 
toast  it ;  or  cut  it  a  little  thicker,  dip  quickly  into  cold 
water,  and  crisp  in  a  hot  oven. 

Very  good  bread  is  made — and  many  like  it  for  a  change 
— by  working  into  the  above  sponge  equal  parts  Graham 
and  white  flour  ;  then  knead,  set  to  rise,  mould  into  loaves, 
and  when  risen  again,  bake  as  before.  The  bread  is  a  pale 
buif  color,  and  very  sweet  and  good.     Or  you  may  ase  all 


PART  II.]  LEAVENED  AND  OTHER  BREAD.  129 

Graham,  both  for  sponge  and  mixing,  and  make  in  other 
respects  the  same  ;  many  prefer  it  to  the  above  bread. 

Leavened  Graham  Bread. — ( Softer.  )=§= 

1  quart  boning  water. 

\  cup  good  hop  yeast. 

1     "     sifted  white  flour  for  scalding. 

4J  cups    "         "         "       "    thickening. 

6      "        "  Graham  "       "    mixing. 

The  bread  made  according  to  the  last  recipe  is  light,  dry 
and  flaky  ;  that  described  in  the  present  one  is  more  moist, 
but  light,  sweet  and  good.  Some  prefer  one,  some  the 
other. 

In  the  afternoon,  say  four  or  five  o'clock,  make  the  sponge  ; 
scald  the  cup  of  white  flour  by  pouring  over  it  the  quart  of 
boiling  water,  and  stirring  well  to  remove  lumps.  When 
cooled  to  lukewarm,  thicken  with  the  rest  of  the  white  flour 
(sifted),  add  the  half  cup  of  yeast,  and  beat  to  a  smooth 
batter,  thick  enough  to  drop  from  the  spoon.  Set  this  where 
it  will  keep  warm  ;  when  risen,  which  should  be  in  two  or 
three  hours,  sift  the  Graham  flour  into  the  tray  ;  or  if  you 
have  best  Akron  (Graham  flour  from  white  wheat),  simply 
stir  it  up  lightly,  without  sifting.  In  very  cold  weather, 
warm  the  flour  slightly  before  beginning  to  mix  ;  dip  out  a 
cupful  to  work  in  as  it  is  needed,  then  make  a  well  in  the  rest 
of  it,  and  pour  in  the  sponge.  Mix  as  soft  as  possible, 
working  with  both  hands  till  the  flour  and  sponge  are 
thoroughly  incorporated,  and  a  plastic  dough  is  formed — 
entirely  too  soft  to  lift  from  the  tray.  Then  remove  with  a 
knife  what  adheres  to  the  fingers,  sprinkle  the  surface 
lightly  with  flour,  and  cover  with  several  thicknesses  of  old 
table-linen.  You  may  leave  the  tray  on  the  kitchen  table, 
or  in  some  other  warm  place.  If  the  yeast  is  good,  the 
bread  can  be  made  as  early  as  seven  or  eight  o'clock  ;  though 


130  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  H. 

in  pretty  warm  weather  it  is  better  to  set  the  sponge  later, 
and  mix  the  last  thing  before  bed-time. 

Next  morning  you  will  find  the  bread  increased  in  vol- 
ume, and  also  considerably  stiffer  in  texture  ;  so  much  so 
that  you  can  readily  lift  it  from  the  tray  to  the  moulding- 
board.  Give  it  ten  minutes'  thorough  kneading — a  little 
longer  for  a  larger  batch  —  using  very  little  flour ;  then 
mould  into  four  or  five  loaves,  put  in  separate  pans,  cover, 
and  set  to  rise.  When  light  enough,  bake  ;  a 'few  moments' 
delay  will  spoil  the  bread.  The  oven  must  be  moderate  in 
the  start,  allowing  the  loaves  to  swell  a  little  before  they 
commence  to  brown  ;  if  baked  too  fast  at  first,  they  will  be 
doughy  in  the  middle.  Continue  with  an  even  heat,  slack- 
ening it  toward  the  last,  so  as  not  to  scorch  in  finishing  ; 
the  bread  should  be  done  in  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes, 
though  larger  loaves  (which  are  never  quite  as  good)  re- 
quire an  hour.  Have  the  crust  an  even  brown,  and  not  too 
thick.  When  taken  from  the  pans,  stand  the  loaves  endwise 
till  cold  ;  then  wrap  in  clean  cloths,  and  put  away. 

In  very  warm  weather,  the  bread  is  in  danger  of  souring 
if  it  stands  over  night ;  to  avoid  this,  set  the  sponge  in  the 
morning,  and  get  through  with  the  intermediate  processes 
in  time  to  bake  the  same  day. 

Leavened  Graham  Bread. 

The  following  recipe  is  from  a  lady  who  is  an  excellent 
bread-maker  : 

Over  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  flour  pour  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  ;  then  pour  in  cold  water  until  it  is  lukewarm. 
Stir  in  white  flour  to  form  a  batter  that  will  pour  (not  drop) 
from  the  spoon,  put  in  half  a  cup  of  good  yeast,  and  beat 
well.  Set  this  to  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  stir  in 
another  pint  of  white  flour,  beating  very  thoroughly  ;  let  it 
stand  in  a  warm  place  till  it  begins  to  send  up  bubbles. 


PART  H.]  LEAVENED    AND    OTHER   BREAD.  131 

Then  take  enough  sifted  Graham  flour  to  mix  with  the 
sponge,  and  form  a  dough  not  very  stiff  ;  knead  till  it  looks 
and  feels  smooth  and  silky,  and  set  it  to  rise.  When  light 
enough  knead  very  little,  form  into  loaves,  and  put  them 
into  the  pans.  As  soon  as  they  have  risen  sufficiently  (if 
too  light  the  bread  will  not  be  sweet),  set  in  a  moderate 
oven,  and  bake  till  done  ;  they  will  require  fully  an  hour,  if 
the  loaves  are  of  ordinary  size.  When  taken  out  do  not  set 
them  flat  on  the  table,  but  place  endwise,  leaning  against 
something  until  cold.     Cut  the  day  after  baking. 

Graham  Bread  with  Potato  Sponge. 

Peel  four  or  five  potatoes,  drop  into  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  and  cook  till  soft ;  then  lift  them  out,  mash  till  free 
from  lumps,  and  add  the  water  (hot)  in  which  they  boiled, 
mixing  well  together.  Stir  into  this  enough  sifted  white 
flour  to  make  rather  a  thin  batter,  and  beat  well  to  remove 
the  lumps.  Let  it  stand  till  lukewarm,  and  then  add  half  a 
cup  of  good  hop  yeast,  and  one  pint  of  tepid  water  ;  thicken 
with  white  flour  to  form  a  batter  about  as  stiff  as  will  pour 
from  the  spoon,  and  beat  very  thoroughly.  Set  this  sponge 
where  it  will  keep  warm  without  scalding  ;  when  light,  sift 
into  the  bread-bowl  equal  parts  Graham  and  white  flour, 
say  three  pints  of  each,  and  make  a  well  in  the  center.  Now 
add  the  sponge,  mixing  as  you  pour,  and  forming  a  dough 
stiff  enough  to  leave  the  sides  of  the  bowl.  Knead 
thoroughly,  till  the  dough  is  elastic  to  the  touch,  which  will 
take  perhaps  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  set  it  to  rise,  covering 
well,  and  leaving  it  in  a  warm  place.  As  soon  as  risen  form 
into  small  loaves,  knead  moderately,  and  set  where  they  will 
keep  warm.  When  light  enough  bake  in  a  good  even  oven, 
nearly  an  hour.    Do  not  cut  the  bread  till  it  is  one  day  old. 

This,  and  indeed  all  loaf  bread,  is  better  baked  in  a 
brick  oven,  such  as  bakers  use  ;  and  it  is  sweeter  if  put  in 
pans  (tin  or  iron)  with  closelv-fitting  covers.  The  pans  may 
10 


132  HEALTH    IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

be  made  in  any  shape  desired  ;  the  best  perhaps  are  circular, 
and  widening  toward  the  top,  like  an  earthen  flower-pot. 

Raisin  Bread. 

Pick,  wash  and  seed  the  raisins,  a  full  pint  for  an  ordi- 
nary loaf  ;  put  them  in  a  small,  covered  vessel,  and  set  the 
latter  into  a  larger  one  containing  boiling  water  ;  cover  this 
also,  and  place  over  the  fire.  Let  the  raisins  steam  half  or 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  the  water  that  adheres  from 
washing,  is  sufficient  to  steam  them.  Mix  and  knead  the 
bread,  as  in  either  of  the  preceding  recipes  ;  when  ready  to 
mould  work  the  raisins  in  evenly,  and  set  it  to  rise  in  single 
loaf  tins.  Bake  an  hour,  or  till  well  done,  and  eat  the  next 
day. 

Bread  from  "Risings." 

Leavened  bread  is  often  made  without  hops,  as  follows  : 
Into  one  pint  of  water  at  scarcely  more  than  blood  heat, 
stir  white  flour  to  form  rather  a  stiff  batter,  and  beat  well  ; 
our  mothers  added  a  little  salt,  but  there  is  no  need  of  it. 
Make  this  sponge  early  in  the  morning,  and  set  it  where  it 
will  keep  at  an  even  temperature,  about  blood  heat ;  it  will 
take  five  or  six  hours  for  it  to  rise.  Beat  several  times  the 
first  three  hours — not  afterward  ;  and  when  the  sponge  is 
ready,  mix  immediately  ;  "  delay  is  dangerous,"  particularly 
in  making  bread  from  "  risings."  Sift  into  your  tray  three 
quarts  of  Graham  flour — or  part  Graham — make  a  well  in 
it,  pour  in  the  sponge,  and  add  warm  water  (not  hot)  to 
form  rather  a  soft  dough.  Knead  but  little  and  very  lightly, 
and  mould  into  loaves  not  too  large.  Set  these  to  rise  in  a 
warm  place,  and  when  light  enough,  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  an  hour  ;  if  made  chiefly  of  white  flour,  a  little 
Jess  time  will  suffice.  This  bread  requires  promptness  at 
every  step,  or  it  will  not  be  good  ;  if  either  the  sponge  or 
the  dough  stands  after  it  is  risen,  the  bread  loses  its 
sweetness. 


part  ii.]  leavened  and  other  bread.  133 

Bread  from  "Bisings." 

The  following  recipe  for  bread  from  "risings,"  comes 
well  recommended  : 

Scald  one  cup  of  fresh  corn  meal  and  thin  it  with  cold 
water,  making  the  mixture  about  blood  heat.  Stir  into  this 
one  cup  of  white  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  batter  that  will 
run  from  the  spoon  ;  beat  thoroughly.  Then  set  it  in  an 
earthen  crock,  containing  water  that  can  be  comfortably 
borne  with  the  hand  ;  not  hot  enough  to  scald  the  sponge. 
Keep  it  in  a  warm  place  three  hours,  or  until  water  rises  on 
top  ;  then  stir  in  more  white  flour,  enough  to  stiffen  the 
batter  to  the  first  consistency.  Let  it  remain  in  the  crock 
of  warm  water  until  risen  to  a  light  sponge,  though  not  too 
light.  After  it  is  fairly  up,  put  into  the  mixing-bowl  four 
or  five  pints  of  sifted  Graham  flour,  pour  in  the  risings,  and 
work  into  a  very  soft  dough,  without  kneading.  Handle  only 
enough  to  mix  all  well  together  ;  then  make  into  rather 
small  loaves,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  ;  when  light 
enough,  bake  in  a  good  even  oven,  nearly  or  quite  an  hour. 
If  preferred,  use  part  white  flour  for  mixing. 

Another  recipe,  from  a  good  bread-maker,  is  as  follows  : 
Scald  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal,  let  it  cool  a  little, 
and  then  pour  in  a  pint  of  water  scarcely  warmer  than  new 
milk.  Thicken  with  white  flour  till  the  mixture  is  stiff 
enough  to  drop  (not  pour)  from  the  spoon  ;  set  this  sponge 
in  a  crock  of  wami  water,  kept  steadily  at  blood  heat ;  stir 
now  and  then,  till  it  begins  to  send  up  bubbles  ;  and  when 
it  has  risen,  say  two  inches,  mix  the  bread.  To  do  this, 
scald  a  portion  of  the  flour  (Graham),  and  let  it  cool  to 
lukewarm  ;  then  mix  with  the  sponge,  forming  a  pretty  soft 
dough,  and  knead  lightly  and  quickly  till  smooth  ;  the  dough 
must  not  get  chilled.  Mould  at  once  into  loaves,  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  light  enough, 
bake. 


134  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

In  making  bread  from  "  risings "  always  set  the  sponge 
very  early  in  the  morning,  in  order  to  finish  the  baking  in 

good  season. 

Batter  Loaf  Bread. 

Make  the  ordinary  sponge  with  tepid  water,  yeast  and 
flour,  using  half  Graham  and  half  white  ;  set  this  in  a 
warm  place.  As  soon  as  risen  add  sifted  Graham  flour, 
mixing  with  a  spoon  till  a  thick  batter  is  formed  ;  too  thick 
to  drop  from  the  spoon.  Beat  till  there  are  no  lumps,  then 
pour  into  small  bread-pans,  well  oiled,  smooth  the  top  with 
a  knife,  and  set  to  rise  ;  when  sufficiently  light,  bake  in 
rather  a  hot  oven  about  fifty  minutes. 

Another. — Make  the  same  as  before,  using  the  Lockport 
flour  both  for  sponge  and  mixing  ;  the  bread  is  very  sweet 
and  light,  but  pretty  moist. 

Bye   Bread. 

Make  the  same  as  Leavened  Graham  Bread,  using  white 
flour  for  the  sponge,  and  either  rye  flour  or  sifted  rye  meal 
for  mixing.  Or  a  better  way,  as  the  bread  is  not  so  apt  to 
be  sticky,  is  to  mix  with  half  rye  meal,  and  the  rest  sifted 
Graham  flour.     Knead  lightly,  and  not  too  long. 

A  very  sweet  rye  bread  is  made  as  follows  :  Make  the. 
sponge  with  tepid  water  and  rye  flour,  and  set  it  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  ;  as  soon  as  light  mix  with  rye  meal  or  flour,  to 
form  rather  a  soft  dough.  Knead  as  little  as  possible,  and 
mould  into  small  loaves.  Set  these  where  they  will  keep 
warm,  and  when  light  enough  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one 
hour.  This  is  rye  bread  from  "  risings  ";  the  flour  must  be 
fresh.  A  handful  of  good  Graham  mixed  with  it,  is  an  im- 
provement.    Cut  the  day  after  the  bread  is  baked. 

Bye  Flour  Bread. 
1  pint  warm  water. 

3  cups  rye  flour — or  enough  for  a  smooth  batter. 
\  cup  good  hop  yeast. 


PART  n.]         LEAVENED  AND  OTHER  BREAD.  135 

Make  the  sponge  with  the  above,  and  set  it  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  ;  it  should  be  light  in  from  two  to  three 
hours,  if  the  yeast  is  good.  When  risen,  put  into  the  bread- 
bowl  one  cup  of  corn  meal  and  three  cups  of  rye  flour, 
mixed  together  ;  or  enough  to  form  a  dough  that  will  knead 
without  sticking  to  the  moulding-board.  Mix  with  the 
sponge,  kneading  lightly  and  very  little  ;  scarcely  more  than 
enough  to  hold  the  mass  well  together,  or  the  bread  will  be 
sticky  ;  you  may  in  cool  weather,  set  this  to  rise  over  night. 
In  the  morning  mould  into  loaves  (small  ones  are  better 
than  large),  let  them  rise  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or  till 
sufficiently  light,  and  bake  in  an  even  oven  about  an  hour. 

Potato  Biscuits. 

2  cups  *  new  milk. 

\  cup  good  hop  yeast. 

2  cups  mashed  potato — hot. 

Flour  for  sponge  and  dough. 

Time  (for  baking),  20  to  30  minutes. 

Heat  the  milk  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  mashed  potato,  and 
cool  to  blood  heat.  Then  strain  through  a  colander  to  re- 
move the  lumps,  add  the  yeast,  and  stir  in  enough  white 
flour  to  form  a  batter  that  will  pour  from  the  spoon.  Set 
this  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  ;  it  should  be  ready  in  two  or 
three  hours.  In  cool  weather  you  may  set  the  sponge  over 
night,  and  make  the  bread  in  the  morning.  "When  light, 
mix  with  Graham  flour,  or  half  Graham  and  half  white, 
forming  a  tolerably  stiff  dough  ;  knead  very  thoroughly, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  till  risen.  Then  roll  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  in  small  round  cakes, 
and  let  them  rise  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or  till  sufficiently 
lisht. 


*  A  "  cup  "  is  half  a  pint. 


136  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  You  can  take  water  for  the  sponge, 
if  desired  ;  but  the  bread  will  require  longer  kneading. 
Or  a  plain  rusk  may  be  made  in  this  way  :  Before  mixing, 
add  to  the  above  sponge  a  little  sugar  finely  rolled,  and  a 
beaten  egg  ;  then  proceed  as  before,  not  forgetting  to  knead 
well. 

Stale  Bread. 

Cut  the  loaf  in  thick  slices,  dip  these  quickly  into  cold 
water,  and  lay  in  a  hot  oven  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  ;  long 
enough  to  heat  through  thoroughly.  The  outside  should  be 
crisp,  but  not  scorched,  and  the  inside  light  and  dry. 
Bread  warmed  over  in  this  way,  is  very  good. 

Dry  Toast. 

Take  bread  that  is  two  or  three  days  old,  but  not  mouldy  ; 
cut  it  in  rather  thin  slices,  and  toast  evenly  before  or  over 
the  coals.  Do  not  hurry  the  process.  Toast  that  is  merely 
scorched  on  its  surfaces,  and  underdone  between  them,  is 
not  fit  for  the  table  ;  both  sides  should  be  an  even  brown, 
the  bread  dry  and  crisp,  but  tender  enough  to  be  easily 
broken.  If  rather  fresh,  lay  the  slices  on  the  oven  grate  a 
few  moments,  and  dry  slightly  before  toasting  ;  or,  you 
may  dry  each  surface,  holding  the  slice  on  the  fork  before 
the  coals,  and  brown  afterward. 

A  very  delicate  toast  is  made  as  follows  :  Cut  the  slices 
nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  from  bread  that  is  two  or  three 
days  old.  Toast  with  a  fork  very  evenly,  and  not  too 
slowly  ;  when  one  side  begins  to  tinge  turn  the  other,  to 
keep  the  slice  from  warping.  Graduate  the  heat  and  repeat 
the  turnings,  in  such  a  way  that  each  surface  shall  be  an  even 
brown,  with  a  very  .thin  layer  of  soft  bread  between.  Good 
home-made  Graham  loaf,  toasted  in  this  way,  is  excellent. 
The  moment  they  are  ready,  serve  the  slices  separately  on  a 
plate,  as  they  are  apt  to  sweat  and  become  clammy,  if  piled 
one  upon  another. 


part  it.]  leavened  and  other  bread.  137 

Mush  Gems. 

Make  at  night  a  thick  gruel,  by  stirring  corn  meal  into  a 
quart  of  boiling  water  ;  let  it  cook  twenty-five  or  thirty 
minutes.  Cool  to  lukewarm,  then  thicken  with  Graham 
flour,  unsifted,  until  a  batter  is  formed  almost  too  stiff  to 
drop  from  the  spoon.  Stir  into  this  a  spoonful  of  sweet 
fluid  yeast,  and  leave  it  (in  winter)  in  a  warm  room  till 
morning.  Then  without  stirring  the  batter,  dip  it  into  hot 
gem-pans,  slightly  oiled  ;  fill  about  two-thirds  full,  and  bake 
forty  minutes  in  a  pretty  hot  oven.  This  bread  is  a  great 
favorite  with  many. 

Mush  Biscuits.  =§= 

Take  hot  corn  meal  mush,  and  stir  in  either  Graham  or 
white  flour  till  it  is  quite  stiff  ;  add  cold  water  until  the 
mixture  is  cooled  to  blood  heat.  Then  stir  in  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  fluid  yeast,  then  more  flour,  forming  a 
tolerably  stiff  dough  ;  knead  well,  and  set  it  to  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  mould  into  small  cakes  or  biscuits, 
oil  the  edges  to  keep  them  from  running  together,  and  set 
to  rise  a  second  time.  When  light,  bake  in  a  good  even 
oven  till  well  done. 

Corx  Bread. — (Excellent).  + 

The  bread  described  below,  though  not  strictly  hygienic, 
is  quite  plain  and  very  much  liked  ;  it  is  made  without  eggs 
or  sugar.     You  must  measure  the  milk  before  using  it. 

Stir  into  white  flint  corn  meal — or  the  yellow  flint,  if 
white  can  not  be  had — enough  boiling  water  to  moisten  (or 
half  scald)  the  whole  mass  ;  stir  constantly,  while  you  are 
pouring  in  the  water.  Let  the  mixture  stand  a  moment,  to 
give  time  for  the  meal  to  swell.  Then  pour  in  a  little 
sour  milk,  and  with  a  spoon  mash  all  the  lumps  of  partly 
scalded  meal  ;  add  enough   more  milk  to  make  a  batter 


138  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

almost  too  stiff  to  pour,  and  beat  very  hard.  Stir  in  soda 
to  sweeten,  first  dissolving  it  in  a  little  boiling  water,  ^and 
using  a  level  teaspoonful  to  a  pint  of  sour  milk  ;  then  beat 
thoraughly  ;  pour  immediately  into  an  oiled  bread-pan, 
smooth  the  top  with  a  spoon,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
twenty  minutes.  The  cake  must  be  scarcely  more  than  half 
an  inch  thick,  and  must  have  a  good  crust,  top  and  bottom. 
Success  in  making  it,  depends  upon  the  proper  amount  of 
scalding,  the  thorough  beating,  quick  handling,  and  hot 
oven. 

An  excellent  cake  made  with  very  little  milk,  is  prepared 
in  this  way  :  Partly  scald  the  meal  (flint,  if  you  can  get  it) 
with  boiling  water,  the  same  as  in  the  preceding ;  then 
mash  the  lumps,  and  stir  in  sweet  or  sour  milk — if  sour,  a 
pinch  of  soda  to  sweeten — till  you  form  a  dough  pretty 
nearly  as  stiff  as  you  can  spread  with  a  spoon.  Beat  till  you 
are  tired,  then  spread  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick 
over  the  bottom  of  an  oiled  bread-pan,  and  bake  in  a  good 
oven,  all  of  forty  minutes ;  the  two  crusts  must  be  well 
browned. 

Still  another  method,  very  good,  is  the  following  :  Into  a 
quart  of  corn  meal — white  flint,  if  you  have  it — pour  a  pint 
of  boiling  water,  stirring  well ;  add  sour  mi]k  to  form  a 
dough  barely  stiff  enough  to  handle  ;  buttermilk  moderately 
sour,  is  best.  Then  add  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  finely 
pulverized,  beat  till  light,  and  mould  into  small  oval  cakes 
by  tossing  the  dough  over  and  over  in  the  hands.  Place 
them  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other  in  the  pan,  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  thirty  to  forty  minutes.  A  handful  of  Graham 
flour  added  with  the  milk,  improves  the  bread. 

Pumpkin  Bread. 

Stew  pumpkin  till  it  is  soft,  and  rather  dry  ;  then  stir  a 
cupful  of  it  into  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  thicken  with 
corn  meal  till  a  dough  is  formed  stiff  enough  to  mould  with 


PART  n.]  LEAVENED    AND    OTHER    BREAD.  139 

the  hands.     Make  into  small  oval  cakes  about  two  inches 
thick,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Corn  Gems  with  Eggs. 

Wet  a  pint  and  a  half  of  coarse  corn  meal  with  cold 
water,  making  a  batter  almost  too  stiff  to  drop  from  the 
spoon  ;  let  it  stand  over  night,  if  the  weather  is  not  too 
warin.  In  the  morning  stir  in  an  egg,  and  beat  well  ;  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  and 
stir  again  very  thoroughly.  Dip  into  hot  gem-pans,  pre- 
viously oiled,  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Hasty  Corn  Bread. 

Into  a  pint  of  corn  meal  pour  boiling  water,  to  scald 
about  half  of  it ;  take  for  this  purpose  the  water  in  which 
green  corn  has  been  boiled,  if  you  have  it.  Add  a  handful 
of  Graham  flour,  and  enough  sour  milk  to  make  a  batter 
that  will  drop  readily  from  the  spoon  ;  mash  the  lumps 
well,  as  you  add  the  milk.  Then  pulverize  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  add  it  to  the  mixture,  and  beat  hard  ;  drop  the  cakes 
on  a  hot  griddle  previously  oiled,  and  bake,  allowing  them 
to  brown  nicely  on  both  sides.  They  should  be  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick,  when  done. 

Buckwheat  Shortcake. 

Buckwheat  flour  not  too  finely  ground,  is  sometimes 
mixed  in  a  batter  with  milk  or  water,  and  baked  as  plain 
gems  or  drop  cakes.  It  is  also  made  into  "shortcake," 
according  to  the  following  recipe  : 

2  cups  sour  milk — or  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Flour  to  make  rather  a  stiff  batter — as  for  wheaten  gems. 

Time — 25  to  30  minutes. 

Mix  and  bake  in  shallow  gem-pans,  forming  a  good  crust ; 


140  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

have  rather  a  quick  oven,  but  not  so  hot  as  to  blister  the 
tops.  The  cakes  are  sweet  and  crisp,  if  well  baked.  If  you 
have  not  sour  milk  use  sweet,  adding,  if  you  choose,  two 
teaspoonf  uls  of  baking-powder  ;  if  the  powder  is  omitted, 
stir  in  a  good  tablespoonf  ul  of  coarse  corn  meal. 

Cream  Biscuits.  =§= 

3  cups  sifted  Graham  flour — or  best  Akron  unsifted,  if 

you  have  it. 
3  cups  sifted  white  flour,  the  coarser  brands. 
2  cups  new  milk — or  half  cream  and  half  milk. 

1  teaspoonful*  soda,  finely  pulverized. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
Time — 15  to  20  minutes. 

Mix  the  Graham  and  white  flour  together  ;  then,  having 
pulverized  the  soda  as  finely  as  possible  with  a  knife,  add 
the  cream  of  tartar  to  it ;  stir  these  well  through  the  flour, 
and  sift  at  least  twice.  Wet  with  the  milk  or  cream,  and 
mix  with  the  finger-tips,  forming  rather  a  firm  dough  ;  you 
must  pour  slowly  and  stir  fast — the  same  as  in  mixing 
pastry  ;  if  the  cream  is  poured  in  so  rapidly,  or  the  stirring 
done  so  slowly  as  to  form  little  puddles  in  the  flour,  the 
biscuits  will  be  tough.  Mix  very  lightly,  using  only  pres- 
sure enough  to  make  the  dough  adhere  ;  get  it  together 
without  kneading,  and  roll  to  a  little  less  than  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  in  thickness  ;  prick  well  with  a  fork,  and  then  use 
the  cake-cutter.  The  cakes  should  be  smooth,  with  no  dry 
flour  sticking  to  the  surface.  Place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake 
evenly  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or  till  well  browned,  top 
and  bottom.  Thick  sour  cream  may  be  used,  in  place  of 
sweet,  but  it  must  be  well  stirred  before  mixing  ;  and  in- 


w  A  "  teaspoonful "  of  soda,  or  cream  of  tartar,  is  the  spoon  filled  no 
more  than  level ;  baking-powder  is  so  adulterated  with  starch  or  flour,  that 
it  is  necessary,  in  using  it,  to  heap  the  measure. 


PART  II.]  LEAVENED   AND    OTHER   BREAD.  141 

stead  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  take  only  the  former  ;  a 
teaspoonf  al  will  be  enough.  This  bread,  properly  made,  is 
nearly  all  crust ;  it  is  very  good  split  apart,  and  fruit  spread 
on  it. 

If  the  ordinary  Graham  flour  made  of  red  wheat  is  used, 
one  part  sifted  Graham  and  two  of  white  flour,  are  the  best 
proportions. 

Currant  Scone. =§= 

2  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 

2     "         "       white 

li  "     thin  sweet  cream — part  milk  will  do. 

l£  "     sweet  currants,  picked,  washed  and  drained. 

f  teaspoonful  soda,  finely  pulverized. 

1-|-  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

Time — 30  to  40  minutes,  according  to  thickness. 

Stir  together  the  Graham  and  white  flour,  add  the  soda 
(pulverized)  and  the  cream  of  tartar,  and  sift  two  or  three 
times.  Then  stir  in  the  currants,  and  wet  with  the  cream 
to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  dough  ;  knead  as  little  as  possible  ; 
gather  the  mass  up  lightly,  till  it  will  stick  together,  and  roll 
to  the  thickness  of  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  inch  ;  there 
should  be  no  dry  flour  adhering  to  the  cake.  Prick  deeply 
with  a  fork,  or  draw  shallow  lines  across  the  top  with  a 
knife,  forming  diamond  creases  ;  then  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  thirty  to  forty  minutes.  It  should  be  nicely  browned, 
top  and  bottom,  and  so  evenly  and  thoroughly  baked  as  to 
be  dry  and  porous  throughout.  It  is  very  good  made  of  all 
Graham  flour. 

When  cold,  cut  in  regular  pieces,  and  serve  as  a  cake 
dessert ;  it  is  not  so  good  the  day  after  it  is  baked.  It  is 
best  eaten  with  tart  fruit  (as  canned  cherries),  or  with 
gooseberry  or  grape  juice  ;  and  the  children  like  it  crumbed 
into  grape  or  other  fruit  juice,  to  eat  like  bread  and  milk. 


142  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

The  Scotch  people  make  this  cake  of  white  flour  (mixing 
a  little  softer),  and  bake  it  on  a  griddle  over  the  fire  ;  when 
one  side  is  sufficiently  browned,  they  turn  and  brown  the 
other.  They  also  make  a  plain  cake,  leaving  out  the  cur- 
rants, and  bake  it  in  the  same  way.  If  sour  cream  is  used 
for  mixing,  omit  the  cream  of  tartar. 

Potato  Scone. 

Pare  and  boil  good  mealy  potatoes,  drain  off  the  water 
and  mash  fine,  leaving  no  lumps.  Then  mix  together  equal 
parts  of  Graham  and  white  flour,  sifted,  and  take  out  a 
handful  for  kneading.  Into  a  quart  of  the  mixture,  stir 
two-thirds  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  finely  pulverized  with 
a  knife,  and  sift  at  least  twice.  When  this  is  done  add  a 
pint  of  the  mashed  potato,  rub  it  well  through  the  flour, 
and  mix  with  sour  milk,  forming  rather  a  firm  dough  ;  then 
roll  out  and  bake,  as  in  the  preceding  recipe.  If  sweet 
milk  is  used,  add  to  the  soda  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  and  mix  and  sift  as  before. 


PLAIN  FBUIT  CAKES. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. -|=- 

3  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 

3  "         "      white         " 
2     "      sweet  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  finely  pulverized. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

4  to  6  quarts  strawberries. 
Time — 30  to  40  minutes. 

If  the  berries  require  it,  wash  quickly  in  a  colander ;  do 
this  an  hour  before  they  are  wanted  ;  and  if  not  perfectly 
ripe,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  them  to  start  the  juice. 
When  large  and  firm,  or  a  trifle  underripe,  a  little  chopping 


PART  II.]  PLAIN    FRUIT    CAKES.  143 

with  a  knife — a  silver  one,  if  you  have  it — is  an  improve- 
ment. 

Mix  the  cake  as  for  cream  biscuits,  already  given,  sifting 
the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  several  times  through  the 
flour.  Roll  to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch,  prick  well  with 
a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  to  f orty  minutes. 
For  weak  stomachs  make  the  cake  still  thinner,  rolling  not 
more  than  a  third  of  an  inch  thick.  "When  done  remove 
from  the  oven,  and  lean  edgewise  to  cool,  till  you  can  handle 
it  comfortably;  split  carefully  in  halves  by  first  dividing  the 
crust  (at  its  edge)  with  a  knife,  and  then  taking  a  fork  and 
separating  the  cake  as  nearly  through  the  middle  as  pos- 
sible. Lay  these  each  on  a  plate,  crust  downward,  and  put 
on  the  prepared  fruit ;  then  lay  one  half  on  top  of  the 
other,  and  after  it  stands  half  an  hour,  serve. 

The  above  quantity  of  flour  will  make  three  cakes,  the 
size  of  a  tea-plate  ;  these  will  require  from  four  to  six 
quarts  of  unchopped  berries  ;  if  ripe  and  sound,  fewer  will 
be  needed.  It  is  best  in  spreading  the  fruit,  not  to  drench 
the  cake  with  it ;  but  to  leave  out  a  bowlful  of  the  berries, 
and  pass  as  you  serve  ;  no  other  sauce  is  needed.  If  your 
family  is  small,  take  half  the  proportions  here  given  for  the 
cake,  and  half  the  quantity  of  fruit.  Should  you  have  the 
ordinary  Graham  flour  made  from  red  wheat,  take  less  of  it 
by  half  a  cup,  and  mix  with  it  three  and  a  half  cups  of  the 
white  flour.  If  baking-powder  is  used,  it  will  require  three 
teaspoonfuls,  heaping. 

Instead  of  strawberries,  you  may  take  huckleberries,  red 
or  black  raspberries,  or  cherries  ;  the  latter  must  be  seeded, 
and  stewed  in  a  very  little  water  with  a  trifle  of  sugar. 

Huckleberry  Shortcake. 

Mix  the  paste  as  in  the  last  recipe,  and  roll  into  two 
sheets,  each  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  line  a  pie-pan  with 
one   of  these,  and  fill  with  the  berries,  sprinkling  lightly 


144  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  H. 

with  sugar.  Then  lay  on  the  other  crust,  trim  off  the  edges 
with  a  knife,  and  press  firmly  together.  Bake  from  thirty 
to  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  cool  to  lukewarm, 
and  serve  without  a  dressing.-  Or,  you  may  make  the  same 
as  strawberry  shortcake,  which  is  a  better  way. 

Strawberry  Gem-Cake. 

Take  equal  parts  of  cream  and  milk  (or  cream  and  water), 
and  thicken  with  Graham  and  white  flour,  half  of  each, 
making  a  batter  nearly  as  stiff  as  will  drop  from  the  spoon  ; 
dip  into  hot  gem-pans,  well  oiled,  and  bake  thirty  to  forty 
minutes,  or  until  thoroughly  done.  When  half  cold,  split 
the  gems  through  the  middle  by  separating  each  with  a 
fork,  place  the  halves  on  plates,  crust  downward,  and  put 
on  a  layer  of  strawberries  prepared  as  for  shortcake.  Rasp- 
berries, cherries,  or  gooseberries  just  beginning  to  ripen, 
may  be  stewed,  moderately  sweetened,  and  served  in  the 
same  way.  Or  you  may  use  red  or  black  raspberries  with- 
out cooking  ;  simply  sprinkle  with  a  little  sugar,  and  partly 
crush  them  before  spreading. 

Graham  Fruit  Roll. — (Excellent.)^ 

2^  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 

3        «         «      white 

1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  "     currants,  picked,  washed  and  dried. 

2  cups  sweet  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  finely  pulverized. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 
Time — one  hour. 

Turn  the  Graham  and  white  flour  together,  stir  in  the 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  and  sift  two  or  three  times.  Wet 
with  the  cream,  mixing  lightly,  and  roll  in  two  oblong 
sheets,  each  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.     Cover  with  the 


PART  II.] 


STEAMED    GRAINS. 


145 


raisins  and  currants  mixed,  and  then  roll  up  closely,  pinch- 
ing the  ends  of  the  folded  roll  firmly  together,  to  secure 
the  fruit.  The  roll  must  not  be  more  than  three  and  a  half 
to  four  inches  in  thickness.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  one 
hour;  when  cold,  cut  in  round  slices,  and  serve. 

Dates  carefully  picked,  seeded  and  chopped,  or  figs  thinly 
sliced,  may  be  used  instead  of  either  raisins  or  currants,  or 
in  combination  with  them ;  but  the  fruit  named  in  the 
recipe  is  best. 

STEAMED  GRAINS. 

The  table  below  gives  the  proportions  of  grain  and  water 
by  measurement,  and  the  time  required  for  cooking  in  a 
double  boiler,  which  is  one  vessel  within  another  ;  it  is  some- 
times called  a  rice-cooker,  or  a  farina-kettle.  All  grains 
require  longer  cooking  than  is  generally  given  to  them.  If 
underdone  they  are  indigestible,  and  lacking  in  flavor; 
the  long  cooking  changes  the  starch  into  glucose,  which 
is  much  sweeter  and  more  easily  digested.  Most  people 
render  the  grains  less  wholesome  by  serving  them  with 
cream  and  sugar ;  this  also  disguises  the  defects  in  cooking. 


Grain. 

Rice 1  cup 

Cracked  wheat 1 

Pearl           "     1 

Pearl  barley 1 

Rolled  or  crushed  barley  1 

Coarse  homiuy 1 

Fine           "         1 

Samp 1 

Oatmeal  (coarse) 1 

"         groats 1 

Rolled  oats 1 


Water.  Time. 

7    cups 2  hours. 


5 

4h 

6 

5 

5 

6 

7 
7 


In  steaming,  put  the  grain  into  boiling  water,  and  from 
first  to  last  keep  the  water  in  the  outer  kettle  at  a  fast  boil, 
adding  more  as  needed.     The  time  required  for  steaming 


146  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART    II; 

can  be  shortened,  by  soaking  the  grain  (covered)  over 
night,  and  cooking  in  the  same  water ;  but  the  flavor  is 
rather  better,  if  the  soaking  is  dispensed  with.  In  the  ab- 
sence of  a  double  boiler,  you  may  cook  the  grain  in  a 
covered  bucket  or  other  vessel  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water. 
Some  like  the  grains  cooked  rather  dry,  while  others  prefer 
them  quite  moist ;  if  the  proportions  here  given  do  not  suit 
the  taste,  it  will  be  an  easy  matter  to  correct  them  after  a 
single  trial. 

Preparations  of  grain  that  are  finely  ground,  as  purina, 
farinose,  etc.,  should  be  stirred  for  a  few  minutes  or  until 
they  begin  to  thicken. 

Cracked  Wheat.=J= 

Cracked  or  crushed  wheat  was  originally  what  the  name 
implies,  viz.,  the  grain  crushed,  or  cracked  partly  open. 
But  now  that  each  kernel  is  first  dressed  or  cleaned 
(pearled),  and  then  cut  into  two  or  more  pieces,  some 
other  name,  as  "wheaten  grits,"  "seems  more  appropriate; 
and  this  is  what  the  preparation  is  called,  in  Eastern  cities. 
To  cook,  put  it  into  a  farina-kettle  and  add  boiling  water, 
taking  five  parts  of  rwater  to  one  of  grain  ;  cover,  and  cook 
without  stirring,  three  hours*  In  the  absence  of  a  steamer, 
or  a  double  boiler,  put  the  wheat  and  water  into  a  tin 
bucket,  fit  on  its  lid,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
also  covered.  Care  must  be  taken  to  allow  the  grain  room 
to  swell.  In  summer  you  may  pour  it  into  a  mould  or  oval 
dish,  and  serve  cold.  Raspberries,  or  other  small  fruits, 
stewed,  make  a  good  dressing. 

Rolled  Wheat. 

This  is  cooked  the  same  as  cracked  wheat,  the  propor- 
tions being  one  of  grain  to  four  and  a  half  of  cold  water ; 
or,  if  liked  dry,  one  to  four ;  time,  three  hours.  Serve  the 
same  as  cracked  wheat. 


part  ii.]  steamed  grains.  147 

Rolled  or  Crushed  Barley. 

Allow  one  part  grain  and  three  parts  water,  boiling  hot; 
keep  the  water  in  the  outer  kettle  at  a  fast  boil,  cover,  and 
steam  about  three  hours.  On  finishing,  some  stir  in  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  cream. 

Pearl  Wheat  ,=j|= 

Put  into  a  double  boiler  one  cup  of  pearl  wheat  and  four 
and  a  half  cups  of  boiling  water ;  cook  five  hours.  Or,  if 
preferred,  soak  it  over  night  in  cold  water  (same  quantity), 
keeping  the  vessel  closed  covered  ;  then  steam  in  the  water 
in  which  it  soaked,  and  allow  about  four  hours. 

Pearl  Barley.  =JJ= 

This  takes  about  the  same  time  for  cooking  as  pearl 
wheat.  Start  in  boiling  water,  allowing  five  cups  of  water 
to  one  cup  of  barley,  and  cook  in  a  farina-kettle  all  of  five 
hours.  Or  you  may  soak  over  night,  as  in  the  last  recipe, 
which  would  shorten  the  time  nearly  an  hour. 

If  you  have  not  a  steamer,  cook  in  an  earthen  crock, 
allowing  room  to  swell ;  or  in  a  covered  tin  bucket  set  in  a 
pot  of  boiling  water.  If  cooked  in  either  of  these,  it  will 
require  four  or  five  hours  to  make  the  grain  tender ;  less, 
if  it  has  been  soaked. 

A  very  little  cream  stirred  in  at  the  last,  is  thought  to  be 
an  improvement  to  this  grain. 

Hominy. 

Hominy  is  usually  made  from  white  flint  corn  ;  there  are 
several  grades  of  it,  which  fact  has  led  to  some  confusion 
in  designating  the  varieties.  First,  there  is  the  whole  grain, 
which  is  boiled  in  the  lye  of  wood  ashes  till  the  hulls  will 
slip  off ;  then  the  lye  is  soaked  out,  and  the  hominy  cooked 
until  tender.  The  other  preparations  common  in  the  mar- 
11 


148  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

ket  are  as  follows :  Coarse  hominy,  in  which  the  kernels  are 
cut  through  once  or  twice;  fine  hominy,  which  has  them 
cut  into  several  pieces ;  and  samp,  which  is  finer  still. 

Coarse  Hominy.  =jj= 

Start  in  boiling  water,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for 
five  hours ;  allow  five  parts  of  water  to  one  of  grain.  In 
the  absence  of  a  steamer,  cook  in  an  earthen  crock  an  hour 
longer ;  or  you  may  boil  in  a  pot  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring 
frequently  to  prevent  sticking.  This  grain  may  be  soaked 
over  night,  and  cooked  in  the  same  water ;  it  will  then  take 
less  time  by  about  an  hour,  but  the  flavor  is  hardly  as  good. 
The  only  admissible  dressing,  if  any  is  required,  would 
be  a  spoonful  of  cream,  stirred  in  a  few  minutes  before 
finishing. 

Fine  Hominy,  or  Corn  Grits.  =jf= 

Fine  hominy  is  prepared  the  same  as  coarse,  except  that 
the  corn  is  cut  into  smaller  pieces.  It  is  cooked  like  the 
coarse  grits,  only  not  so  long ;  take  one  cup  of  grits  to  five 
cups  of  water,  having  the  latter  boiling  hot. 

Steam  five  hours,  though  four  and  a  half  will  do.  If  any 
"finishing"  is  wanted,  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cream  stirred 
in  five  minutes  before  dishing,  is  the  best. 

Samp.=$= 

Samp  (called  hominy  by  some)  is  made  from  white  flint 
corn.  It  differs  from  the  "grits"  described  in  the  last  two 
recipes,  in  being  cut  very  much  finer ;  it  requires  the  same 
water  to  cook  it  as  hominy  (or  corn  grits),  but  less  time. 
Take  one  part  samp  and  five  parts  water,  the  latter  hot  or 
boiling,  and  steam  about  four  hours.  A  little  cream  or 
new  milk  stirred  in  at  the  last,  is  considered  by  most  per- 
sons a  "delightful  finishing."  Fruit  and  fruit  juices,  as 
raspberries,  blackberries  or  cherries,  make  a  good  dressing; 
though  some  prefer  the  grain  by  itself.     Serve  warm. 


PART  II.]  STEAMED    GRAINS.  149 


RlCE.=#= 

Rice  should  be  cooked  till  the  grains  are  thoroughly 
tender.  If  underdone,  it  is  difficult  to  digest ;  also  inferior 
in  flavor.  To  one  cup  of  rice,  carefully  picked  over  and 
washed,  add  seven  cups  of  boiling  water,  and  steam  two 
hours  without  stirring ;  the  grains  should  if  possible  be 
unbroken,  leaving  the  whole  mass  light  and  porous.  Keep 
the  water  in  the  outer  kettle  at  a  fast  boil.  Do  not  cook 
a  large  quantity  at  one  time  (unless  the  vessel  is  wide  and 
shallow),  as  the  weight  of  the  grain  on  itself  makes  it 
heavy  and  soggy. 

If  boiled  in  an  iron  pot,  like  corn  mush,  it  must  be  stirred 
once  or  twice  at  first,  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the  bottom ; 
it  will  require  a  little  more  water  than  if  steamed. 

A  good  way  to  cook  rice  is  to  put  it  into  a  shallow  tin 
basin,  and  add  seven  parts  boiling  water  to  one  of  rice; 
coyer,  and  set  on  the  stove  where  it  will  cook  steadily 
without  burning.  Shake,  but  do  not  stir  or  uncover.  It 
will  be  done  in  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes.  When  a  small 
quantity  is  wanted,  and  in  haste,  start  in  plenty  of  boiling 
water — about  seven  parts  water  to  one  of  rice — and  cook 
fifty  minutes  or  till  tender,  shaking  the  vessel  occasion- 
ally. 

Rice  and  Raisins.  =$= 

Pick  and  wash  a  cup  of  raisins,  and  also  a  cup  of  rice ; 
mix  them  together,  add  seven  cups  boiling  water,  and  steam 
or  boil  as  in  the  last  recipe.  If  cooked  in  a  pot,  stir  care- 
fully two  or  three  times  at  first,  to  prevent  the  raisins  from 
sticking  to  the  bottom. 

Rice — Southern  Method. 

The  Southern  people  are  said  to  cook  rice  as  follows: 
After  picking  over  carefully  and  washing,  put  it  into  plenty 


150  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

of  cold  water,  and  boil  without  stirring,  just  seventeen  min- 
utes from  the  time  the  pot  begins  to  bubble.  Then  drain 
off  any  water  that  remains,  or  lift  the  lid  and  let  it  evapo- 
rate ;  replace  the  cover,  and  steam  fifteen  to  twenty  min- 
utes.    Each  grain  should  be  whole  or  unbroken. 

Since  the  above  paragraph  was  written,  a  lady  in  Louisi- 
ana sends  the  following  :  "  After  picking  over  and  washing 
the  rice,  put  it  into  a  pot  with  a  plain  round  bottom,  and 
pour  in  cold  water  till  it  rises  an  inch  and  a  half  or  two 
inches  above  the  grain.  Cover,  and  boil  over  a  very  mod- 
erate fire  till  done  ;  for  a  small  quantity,  twenty  to  twenty- 
five  minutes  would  be  long  enough.  By  this  time  the  water 
will  be  about  all  evaporated,  as  you  will  see  by  lifting  the  lid. 
Then  set  the  pot  back  where  it  will  keep  hot,  put  on  the 
cover,  fitting  it  closely,  and  let  the  rice  remain  in  its  own 
steam  a  few  minutes  before  you  send  it  to  the  table.  It 
should  turn  out  just  the  shape  of  the  pot,  and  every  grain 
should  be  whole.     Never  stir  rice." 

Rice — Japanese  Method. 

A  traveler  in  that  country  writes :  "  They  know  how  to 
cook  rice  here,  though  ;  and  for  the  benefit  of  consumers  in 
the  United  States,  I  investigated  the  matter.  Only  just 
enough  cold  water  is  poured  on  to  prevent  the  rice  from 
burning  to  the  pot,  which  has  a  close-fitting  cover,  and  is 
set  on  a  moderate  fire.  The  rice  is  steamed,  rather  than 
boiled,  until  it  is  nearly  done  ;  then  the  cover  of  the  pot  is 
taken  off,  the  surplus  steam  and  moisture  are  allowed  to 
escape,  and  the  rice  turns  out  a  mass  of  snow-white  kernels, 
each  separate  from  the  other,  and  as  much  superior  to  the 
soggy  mass  we  usually  get  in  the  United  States,  as  a  fine 
mealy  potato  is  to  the  water-soaked  article.  I  have  seen 
something  approaching  this  in  our  Southern  States  ;  but  I 
do  not  think  even  there  they  do  it  as  skillfully  as  it  is  done 
here  ;   and  in  the  Northern  States  but  very  few  persons 


PART  II.]  MUSHES.  151 

understand  liow  to  cook  rice  properly.  I  am  sure  that,  if 
cooked  as  it  is  here,  the  consumption  of  this  wholesome  and 
delicious  cereal  would  largely  increase  in  America." 

MUSHES. 

Sometimes  young  children,  and  indeed  those  of  a 
"  larger  growth,"  are  too  much  inclined  to  the  use  of  soft, 
sloppy  foods,  as  mushes,  soups,  etc.  After  the  teeth  are 
developed,  these  should  not  be  eaten  as  often  as  every  meal, 
nor  to  the  exclusion  of  drier  foods,  but  with  them.  The 
hard  Graham  roll  is  the  best  bread  to  eat  with  mushes.  On 
the  preparation  of  these,  the  late  R.  T.  Trail,  M.D.,  has  the 
following  excellent  paragraph  : 

"  Mushes  of  all  kinds  should  be  stirred  as  little  as  possi- 
ble while  cooking,  after  the  material  sets,  or  stops  sinking  to 
the  bottom.  Much  stirring  breaks  up  the  particles  and 
frees  the  starchy  matter,  rendering  the  food  pasty,  and  de- 
stroying the  light,  spongy,  delicate  appearance  it  should 
present  on  the  table  ;  too  much  stirring  also  makes  it  more 
liable  to  adhere  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  The  water 
should  boil  when  the  meal  or  grain  is  stirred  in,  be  kept 
boiling,  and  the  mush  stirred  frequently  for  a  few  minutes, 
when  it  will  cease  sinking  ;  then  cover  closely,  and  cook 
slowly  for  an  hour  or  more.  Mushes  should  not  be  too 
thick,  nor  so  thin  as  to  spread  much  on  the  plate  when 
dished.  The  tendency  of  fruit  when  cooked  in  mushes,  is  to 
settle  and  adhere  to  the  kettle  ;  hence,  in  adding  fruit,  the 
better  way,  as  a  general  rule,  is  to  cook  it  separately,  and 
mix  just  before  dishing.  The  fruit  for  this  purpose  should 
always  be  cooked  slowly,  and  in  as  little  water  as  possible." 

The  best  dressing  for  mushes,  because  the  most  healthful, 
is  fruit  or  fruit  juice  ;  though  they  can  be  eaten  without  a 
dressing.  Mushes  should  invariably  be  started  in  boiling 
water.;  if  started  in  cold,  they  are  apt  to  taste  raw.  Most 
of  the  grains,  however,  as  hominy,  samp,  pearl  wheat,  etc., 


152  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  H. 

rnay  be  put  into  hot  or  cold  water  ;  but  they  will  cook  soft 
in  shorter  time  by  beginning  with  cold.  Cracked  wheat 
(wheaten  grits)  is  thought  to  "jelly"  better — and  this  is 
one  of  its  delightful  characteristics — by  being  started  in 
cold  water.  Rice  cooked  in  the  same  way,  is  less  inclined 
to  be  sticky;  the  flavor  too,  is  better  preserved.  As  a  rule, 
the  grains  are  preferred  warm,  or  lukewarm ;  though 
cracked  wheat,  cooked  to  a  jelly,  is  very  good  cold. 

Oat  Meal  Mush.+ 

Allow  one  pint  (scant)  coarse  oat  meal  ("  B.  grade,  Akron, 
German  Mills,"  is  best),  to  five  pints  of  water;  a  little  more 
meal,  if  of  the  finer  grades,  and  a  little  less,  if  it  is  coarse. 
When  the  water  boils  mix  in  the  grain,  and  stir  frequently 
the  first  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  it  will  settle  to  the  bot- 
tom, and  scorch.  As  the  mush  begins  to  thicken,  set  where 
it  will  boil  or  simmer  slowly,  and  let  it  cook  in  all,  an  hour 
and  a  quarter.  Stir  lightly  from  the  bottom,  now  and  then, 
to  prevent  sticking  ;  but  the  less  the  granules  are  broken 
in  the  operation,  the  better.  Have  the  mush  thin  enough 
to  pour,  but  not  too  readily. 

If  steamed  in  a  double  boiler,  a  great  deal  more  time  is 
required,  and  also  more  water.  For  coarse  oat  meal,  one 
part  grain  to  seven  parts  water  would  be  about  the  right 
proportion  ;  then  steam  four  hours.  If  a  dressing  is  wanted, 
stewed  fruits  or  the  juices  of  fruits,  are  best. 

Rolled  oats  if  cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  takes  one  part 
grain  to  two  and  a  half  parts  water;  time,  two  hours — 
though  longer  cooking  improves  the  flavor. 

Corn  Meal  Mush.=§=     * 

Stir  into  boiling  water  coarse  corn  meal — white  * 'flint," 
if  you  can  get  it — putting  in  very  little  at  first ;  stir  con- 
stantly, and  add  slowly ;  this  is  done  that  the  mush  may 
have  time  to  cook  thoroughly  before  it  gets  thick.     If  the 


PART  II.]  MUSHES.  153 

meal  is  added  fast,  the  mush  thickens  in  the  start;  and  then 
it  will  continue  to  taste  raw,  no  matter  how  long  you  cook 
it.  Repeat  the  stirring  occasionally,  to  prevent  sticking,  and 
cook  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours;  do  not  make 
too  stiff.  Stewed  sweet  currants  or  other  sweet  fruits,  as 
dried  or  canned  pears,  make  a  good  dressing.  When  mush 
is  left  oyer,  cut  it  in  slices  the  next  morning,  dip  these  into 
corn  meal,  and  lay  on  a  hot  griddle,  slightly  oiled;  when 
evenly  browned,  turn  and  brown  the  other  side. 

Young  ripe  corn,  just  hard  enough  to  grate  well  on  a  coarse 
tin  grater,  makes  an  excellent  mush;  the  "golden  flint"  is 
the  best  for  this  purpose,  though  the  white  flint  is  very 
good.     This  grated  meal  needs  no  sifting. 

Graham  Mush. 

Into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  stir  slowly,  coarse  Graham 
flour  (wheaten  meal),  to  make  a  tolerably  thick  mush;  less 
than  a  pint  of  flour  will  thicken  two  quarts  of  water.  Place 
over  a  moderate  fire  where  it  will  boil  without  scorching, 
and  cook  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Stir  as  little  as  pos- 
sible; and  before  dishing,  set  the  pot  from  the  fire  a  few 
minutes;  it  will  be  less  likely  to  stick  to  the  vessel.  Serve 
lukewarm,  with  fruit  or  fruit  juice. 

You  may  stir  in  fresh  dates  five  minutes  before  finishing, 
care  being  taken  not  to  break  the  fruit.  Prepared  in  this 
way,  the  mush  is  good  warm  or  cold;  if  wanted  cold,  mould 
it  in  cups  or  a  shallow  dish,  and  serve  with  or  without  a 
dressing  of  fruit. 

Mush  may  be  made  of  unbolted  rye  flour,  in  the  same 
way  as  the  Graham. 

Farina  Mush. 

Take  about  half  a  cup  of  farina,  and  stir  it  slowly  into  a 
quart  of  boiling  water;  cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  fre- 
quently to  keep  it  from  sticking.    If  this  mush  is  considered 


154  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  II. 

"  flat "  or  insipid,  stir  in  a  very  little  cream  just  before  re- 
moving it  from  the  fire.  Serve  the  same  as  the  last,  with 
stewed  or  canned  fruits,  or  their  juices. 

PASTEIES. 

The  various  kinds  of  pie-crust  described  in  hygienic  cook- 
books, and  shortened  with  beans,  potato,  corn  meal,  etc., 
have  all  been  tried,  and  found  to  be  rather  unsatisfactory; 
they  require  too  much  tact  in  their  management,  for  any 
but  the  most  experienced  cook  to  undertake.  The  crust 
when  baked,  is  either  hard  and  tough,  or  it  is  soft  and 
moist;  which  is  a  great  objection,  particularly  if  dyspeptics 
are  to  eat  it.  It  is  probable  that  some  art,  as  yet  undis- 
covered, will  finally  succeed  in  making  good  paste  out  of 
flour  and  water  only;  and  "short"  enough  to  be  palatable, 
by  the  simple  process  of  kneading,  or  "  breaking  "  it.  But 
as  this  has  not  yet  been  done,  we  must  fall  back  on  what 
may  be  considered  as  the  next  best  thing;  viz.,  cream  and 
flour,  using  very  little  of  the  former.  Some  hygienists  are 
trying  cotton-seed  oil  for  shortening,  and  for  oiling  bread- 
pans,  pie-pans,  etc.  They  say  it  gives  good  satisfaction, 
provided  the  cook  does  not  use  more  of  it  than  is  needed, 
and  does  not  burn  or  scorch  it. 

The  secret  in  mixing  pastry,  is  first,  to  have  both  the 
flour  and  mixing  fluid  as  cold  as  possible;  second,  to  put  it 
together  as  lightly  as  may  be;  third,  to  do  no  kneading — 
only  enough  gentle  pressure  to  hold  the  mixture  together. 
When  made,  it  should  be  rolled  out  and  baked  immediate- 
ly; or  if  it  has  to  stand,  put  it  in  the  ice-chest  or  some 
other  cold  place,  till  wanted.  Nearly  all  Graham  flour  is 
ground  too  coarse  for  good  pastry;  and  in  most  of  it,  the 
bran  is  cut  in  such  large  flakes  that  it  must  be  carefully 
sifted  out.  A  good  rule  therefore  for  general  use,  is  to 
take  equal  parts  of  Graham  and  white  flour,  both  sifted; 
though  if  you  have  "  best  Akron  "  Graham  (which  is  made 


PART  II.]  PASTRIES.  155 

of  white  wheat,  and  the  bran  well  cut),  the  sifting  is  unnec- 
essary. The  best  white  flour  in  the  market  is  prepared 
from  good  wheat,  is  of  a  pale  buff,  or  cream  color,  and  is 
not  very  fine  or  smooth  when  rubbed  between  the  fingers; 
as  the  cooks  say,  it  has  a  "  round  feel."  Always  keep  your 
.flour  in  a  cool  dry  place,  and  where  the  air  is  pure. 

Cream  Paste.  4= 
1     (scant)  cup  sweet  cream — very  cold. 
1J  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 
H      "         "      white         " 

If  your  Graham  flour  is  best  Akron  (white  wheat  with  the 
bran  well  cut),  it  need  not  be  sifted;  always  sift  white  flour. 
Keep  the  cream  in  the  ice-chest  (or  in  ice-water)  till  the  in- 
stant you  want  to  use  it.  Mix  the  Graham  and  white  flour 
well  together,  and  wet  with  the  cream;  pour  the  latter  in 
slowly  and  stir  rapidly,  either  with  a  spoon  or  the  tips  of 
the  fingers;  allow  no  little  puddles  of  cream  to  form  in  the 
flour,  but  mix  as  fast  and  as  lightly  as  possible,  getting  all 
nicely  together  as  if  by  magic.  Do  not  knead,  but  gather  up 
the  dough,  using  barely  enough  pressure  to  make  the  mixt- 
ure adhere,  and  touching  it  with  the  finger-tips  only,  as  if 
it  were  "  lace  and  feathers."  Then  roll  out  immediately, 
and  bake — or  lay  it  in  the  ice-chesfc  till  wanted;  the  dough 
must  be  pretty  stiff.  If  you  have  not  a  marble  slab  to  work 
on  (this  will  keep  your  paste  the  coolest),  a  smooth-topped 
table  or  moulding-board  of  walnut  or  other  hard  wood,  is 
the  next  best  thing. 

Light  Cream  Paste.  =f= 
1     cup  sweet  cream — part  new  milk  will  do. 
1^  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 
H     "         "       white 
f     teaspoonful  soda,  finely  pulverized. 
1^  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 


156  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

Keep  the  cream  in  the  ice-chest  if  you  have  one,  and  the 
flour  in  the  coolest  place  possible,  till  the  moment  they  are 
wanted.  When  ready,  mix  the  Graham  and  white  flour 
together,  and  take  out  a  little  to  use  in  rolling  the  paste, 
Then  stir  in  the  soda,  well  pulverized  with  a  knife,  and  also 
the  cream  of  tartar;  sift  two  or  three  times,  to  blend  thor- 
oughly the  powder  and  the  flour.  This  done,  wet  with  the 
cold  cream,  stirring  lightly  and  quickly  together,  and  with- 
out kneading,  as  in  the  last  recipe;  you  may  mix  with  a 
spoon,  if  you  like,  though  the  fingers  are  better;  have  the 
dough  rather  stiff.  As  soon  as  the  paste  will  hold  together, 
roll  it  out. 

If  baking-powder  is  used,  take  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
to  the  above  quantity  of  flour;  Price's  (or  the  Eoyal)  is  per- 
haps as  good  as  any.  Or  you  may  mix  with  sour  cream, 
and  leave  out  the  cream  of  tartar;  if  you  do  this,  stir  in 
the  pulverized  soda,  and  sift  several  times  before  mixing. 

Cream  Batter  Paste.=|= 

2     cups  sweet  cream. 

1^     "      sifted  Graham  flour. 

1^     «  "     white 

f    teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1|  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 

This  paste  must  not  be  mixed  till  you  are  ready  to  use  it; 
then  make  a  batter  of  the  above  ingredients,  stirring  in  the 
dissolved  soda  the  last  thing,  and  beating  well.  Your  dish 
having  been  filled  (it  may  be  an  apple-cobbler,  or  other 
"  family  pie  "),  spread  the  batter  over  the  top  with  a  knife, 
making  it  as  smooth  as  possible;  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven, 
and  serve  while  the  pie  is  warm.  Batter  crust  is  sure  to 
fall,  if  it  stands  long. 

If  you  use  baking-powder,  sift  it  twice  through  the  flour 
before  mixing  ;  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  would  be  enough* 


PART  II.]  PASTRIES.  157 

Or,  if  you  mix  with  sour  cream,  leave  out  the  cream  of 
tartar,  stir  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  through  the  dry  flour,  and 
sift  two  or  three  times. 

Cream  and  Potato  Paste. 

This  paste  is  rarely  used  except  for  meat  pies,  and  even 
for  these  the  light  cream  paste  is  generally  preferred. 
There  are  two  ways  of  making  it,  both  of  which  are  de- 
scribed in  Part  HL,  under  Meat  Pies. 

Oat  Meal  Paste. 

For  pies  that  require  only  an  under  crust,  and  are  toler- 
ably firm  in  texture,  as  pumpkin  or  squash,  the  following 
makes  a  pretty  good  crust,  though  it  is  not  to  be  compared 
with  cream  paste.  Oil  the  pie-pans  with  a  little  olive  oil, 
butter,  or  clean  beef  dripping  ;  then  sift  over  them  a  layer 
of  fine  oat  meal  ("A"  grade),  or  oat  and  corn  meal  mixed. 
Dip  in  the  filling,  and  bake. 

Crumb  Paste. 

Oil  the  pans  as  in  the  last  recipe,  and  strew  or  sift  finely 
grated  bread-crumbs  over  them  ;  the  crumbs  should  be  dry. 
This  makes  a  convenient  paste  for  puddings  that  are  baked 
in  a  crust. 

Graham  Pies. 

Many  persons  who  can  not  eat  ordinary  pastries,  or  who 
dislike  them  because  of  their  greasiness,  or  their  starchy  "  flat- 
ness," have  no  difficulty  whatever  in  relishing  and  digesting 
Graham  pies  made  according  to  the  following  recipes.  Prop- 
erly made  and  baked,  they  are  both  wholesome  and  palatable  ; 
they  may  be  eaten  warm  or  cold.  In  winter,  when  brought 
cold  from  the  cellar,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  set  them  in  the 
oven  a  few  minutes,  until  they  are  heated  through  ;  this 
should  be  done  in  time  to  cool  a  little,  before  serving.     For 


158  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

patients  (and  the  rule  is  a  good  one  for  well  people),  the 
best  time  to  eat  pastries  is  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal ; 
they  are  better  digested  on  an  empty  stomach,  and  there  is 
less  temptation  to  overeat. 

In  making  fruit  pies,  mix  the  paste  quite  stiff,  roll  it  thin, 
and  bake  immediately  ;  the  pie-pans,  if  kept  in  order,  will 
need  little  or  no  oiling  ;  if  any  is  required,  use  a  trifle  of 
olive  oil  if  you  have  it,  or  a  very  little  fresh  butter,  or  beef 
dripping.  When  you  have  placed  the  under  crust  put  in 
the  filling,  sprinkling  on  a  trifle  of  sugar  if  it  is  needed, 
and  add  a  little  water  in  case  the  fruit  is  not  sufficiently 
juicy.  Dip  the  fingers  into  cold  water  and  moisten  the  rim, 
then  lay  on  the  top  crust,  press  the  two  edges  firmly 
together,  and  trim  off  the  surplus  paste  with  a  knife  ;  the 
less  crust  in  the  rim  of  the  pie,  the  better,  provided  it  se- 
cures the  fruit.  When  the  trimming  is  done,  finish  the 
edge  neatly  (here  is  room  for  aesthetic  taste),  prick  well 
with  a  fork  for  the  escape  of  steam,  and  if  the  fruit  is  very 
juicy  cut  a  cross-slit  in  the  center,  before  baking.  Or — 
what  is  more  tasteful — ornament  the  top  crust  with  a  knife 
"before  lifting  it  from  the  table,  by  cutting  in  graceful  curves 
an  open  work  of  stems  and  leaves. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  as  hot  as  you  can  have  it  without 
scorching  ;  if  the  top  blisters,  the  heat  is  too  great ;  the 
pie  must  brown  evenly,  without  so  much  as  scorching  the 
edge  ;  and  when  taken  from  the  oven,  be  sure  the  bottom 
crust  is  thoroughly  done.  The  paste  should  be  light  and 
flaky,  free  from  grease,  and  very  delicate  in  flavor. 

Apple  PiE.=f= 

Select  good  sound  apples,  not  too  ripe,  and  with  a  rich, 
sub-acid  flavor  ;  if  necessary,  wash  and  dry  them  before 
paring  ;  this  is  better  than  to  wash  the  cut  apples,  which 
wastes  their  juices  ;  pare  and  slice,  not  too  thin.  Then  mix 
a  cream  paste  as  per  recipe  already  given  ;  the  dough  must 


PART  II.]  PASTRIES.  159 

be  quite  stiff.  Roll  pretty  thin,  line  the  pie-pans,  and  fill 
with  the  apples,  taking  care  that  the  slices  are  well  placed  ; 
add  a  little  water,  if  the  fruit  is  not  sufficiently  juicy.  Roll 
out  the  upper  crusts,  also  thin,  and  lay  them  on  ;  pinch 
the  edges  securely  together,  prick  deeply  with  a  fork, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 
The  apples  should  be  well  done,  and  the  crusts  delicately 
browned,  top  and  bottom.  As  soon  as  cooled  to  lukewarm, 
the  pies  are  ready  to  serve  ;  or  they  may  be  eaten  several 
hours  after  they  are  baked.  If  kept  till  the  next  day,  a 
good  plan,  particularly  in  winter,  is  to  set  them  in  the  oven 
long  enough  to  heat  through  before  sending  to  the  table  ; 
take  out  a  few  minutes  before  serving,  if  you  like  them 
nearly  cold. 

Green  Apple  Pie.=|= 

Select  very  tart  apples,  full-grown,  but  not  nearly  ripe  ; 
pare  them,  and  slice  in  pretty  thick  pieces.  Mix  the  paste 
the  same  as  the  last,  roll  it  a  little  thicker,  and  put  in  plenty 
of  apples,  adding  as  little  water  as  will  cook  them.  Bake  in 
a  good  oven  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  or  till  the  apples  are 
thoroughly  soft ;  the  crusts  must  be  well  browned.  When 
done,  split  open  the  pie  with  a  knife,  lay  the  two  crusts  on 
separate  plates,  and  cover  each  with  the  fruit.  Sprinkle 
lightly  with  brown  maple  sugar,  and  eat  warm. 

In  the  early  summer  when  apples  are  scarce,  this  pie  is 
decidedly  appetizing. 

Peach  Pie.+ 

Pare  and  slice  the  fruit,  then  make  and  bake  the  same  as 
apple  pie,  last  recipe  but  one  ;  no  sugar  will  be  needed,  un- 
less the  peaches  are  intensely  sour.  If  this  fruit  is  out  of 
season,  canned  peaches  may  be  used.  Peach  and  all  fruit 
pies  are  best  served  cold,  or  very  nearly  so  ;  or  they  may  be 
eaten  the  day  after  they  are  baked. 


160  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

Cherry   Pie.=§= 

Take  tart  cherries,  wash  them,  pick  over  carefully,  and 
seed.  Then  line  the  pie-pans  with  a  stiff  cream  paste, 
rolling  the  crust  pretty  thin  ;  over  the  bottom  of  each 
sprinkle  a  little  flour,  and  also  the  sugar,  if  any  is  needed, 
mixing  them  together  with  a  brush  of  the  hand  ;  the  flour 
and  sugar  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  prevent  the  juices  from 
soaking  into  the  crust.  Then  put  in  the  fruit,  lay  on  the 
top  crusts  thinly  rolled,  pinch  the  edges  firmly  together, 
and  prick  well  with  a  fork  ;  it  is  also  safe  to  cut  a  good 
cross-slit  in  the  center  of  each,  for  the  escape  of  steam. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  take  out  as  soon  as  the  crusts  are 
thoroughly  done  ;  it  will  require  from  twenty  to  twenty-five 
minutes.     Let  the  pies  get  entirely  cold  before  serving. 

Berry  Pie.+ 

Blackberries,  raspberries,  strawberries,  huckleberries,  or 
any  of  the  ordinary  "  berries,"  may  be  used.  Select  fruit 
not  too  ripe,  look  it  over  carefully,  and  make  the  same  as 
cherry  pie.  Yery  little  sugar  will  be  needed,  say  half  a 
tablespoonful  to  a  pie,  or  even  less.  The  crust,  it  will  be 
remembered,  is  to  be  mixed  stiff,  put  together  without 
kneading,  and  rolled  rather  thin.  If  the  fruit  is  quite  juicy, 
as  blackberries  or  strawberries,  dust  a  little  flour  over  the 
bottom  crust,  sprinkle  on  the  sugar,  brushing  them  well  to- 
gether, and  then  put  in  the  fruit.  Bake  in  rather  a  brisk 
oven  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or  till  the  crusts  are 
done.  If  blackberry  or  raspberry  pie  is  overdone,  the  fruit 
will  taste  bitter.  Serve  cold.  If  gooseberries  are  used,  take 
them  when  they  are  just  beginning  to  ripen,  and  allow  at 
least  a  good  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  a  pie. 

Canned  fruits,  as  cherries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  goose- 
berries, etc.,  make  excellent  pies.  If  canned  for  this  pur- 
pose they  should  be  cooked  as  little  as  possible,  and  put  up 


PART  II.]  PASTRIES.  161 

with  not  too  much  water  ;  on  opening,  if  there  is  more  juice 
than  is  needed,  pour  some  of  it  off  ;  it  will  make  a  fine 
drink,  especially  for  the  sick. 

Grape  Pie. 

Gather  the  grapes  when  they  are  about  half  grown,  and 
the  seeds  soft  ;  then  make  the  same  as  gooseberry  or  cherry 
pie,  and  eat  cold. 

Currant  Pie.+ 

Currants  that  are  about  half  or  two-thirds  ripe,  make  the 
best  pies.  Mix  a  stiff  cream  paste,  line  the  pie-pans  and 
fill  them  with  the  fruit,  washing  in  a  colander  before  it  is 
stripped  from  the  stems  ;  sweeten  moderately.  Put  on  the 
top  crusts,  pinch  the  edges  well  together,  prick  with  a  fork, 
and  cut  a  good  cross-slit  in  the  middle.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven  twenty  minutes,  or  till  both  crusts  are  done.  Serve 
cold. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Pie.=J= 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  raspberries  and  currants  (not  so 
many  currants  if  they  are  scarce),  and  make  the  same  as 
the  last,  using  less  sugar.  Bake  in  rather  a  brisk  oven,  and 
take  out  as  soon  as  the  crusts  are  done.     Serve  cold. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

Throw  out  the  imperfect  berries,  wash  well,  and  stew, 
allowing  about  one  pint  of  water  to  one  quart  of  the  uncooked 
fruit.  When  soft,  rub  through  a  colander,  and  sweeten  ;  and 
unless  they  are  quite  ripe,  you  may  add  nearly  a  cup  of 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  picked  cranberries.  Mix  a  stiff  cream 
paste,  line  the  pie-pans,  and  fill  with  the  sauce  ;  the  pans 
should  not  be  very  deep.  Then  roll  out  a  thin  sheet  of 
dough,  cut  it  into  narrow  strips,  and  place  in  two  layers 
over  the  top,  forming  diamond  squares  ;  pinch  down  the 


162  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

ends,  and  trim  off  the  surplus  paste  with  a  knife.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven  till  the  crust  is  done  and  nicely  browned  on 
the  bottom.     Serve  cold  the  same  day. 

Plum  Pie. 

Damsons  are  the  best  plums  for  pies  ;  gather  them  ripe 
enough  not  to  be  "  puckery  "  when  cooked  ;  they  should  be 
about  right  for  good  sauce.  Line  a  deep  dish  with  a  firm 
cream  paste,  making  the  crust  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ; 
then  fill  with  the  plums,  carefully  picked  over  and  washed, 
and  sprinkle  in  the  sugar  ;  it  will  take  about  half  a  cup  to 
a  quart  of  plums.  Lay  on  a  good  top  crust,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  or  until  the  crusts  are 
done  and  well  browned.  Prick  with  a  fork  before  baking, 
and  also  cut  a  cross-slit  in  the  center. 

Rhubarb  Pie.=^= 

Select  rhubarb  that  is  young  and  tender  ;  wash  well,  and 
trim  off  the  fragments  of  leaves,  taking  care  that  no  worms 
are  left  imbedded  in  the  stalks.  Peel  these,  split  each  once 
or  twice,  making  the  slices  very  thin,  and  cut  into  inch 
lengths.  Prepare  a  stiff  cream  paste,  roll  it  in  a  thin  sheet, 
and  lay  the  under  crust ;  sprinkle  in  a  little  flour  and  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  brushing  the  two  well  to- 
gether, over  the  bottom  of  the  pan  ;  then  put  in  the  rhu- 
barb, carefully  placed,  and  not  more  than  two  or  three 
slices  in  depth.  Now  roll  a  thin  top  crust,  cover  the  pie, 
and  pinch  the  edges  firmly  together  ;  finish  neatly,  prick 
well  with  a  fork,  and  cut  a  good  cross-slit  in  the  middle. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes,  or  till 
the  crusts  are  evenly  browned,  top  and  bottom.  Serve 
cold. 

Rhubarb  pie,  well  made,  is  very  delicate  in  flavor  ;  indif- 
ferently done,  it  is  one  of  the  poorest. 


part  ii.]  pastries.  163 

Dried  Peach  Pie. 

Take  clean  dried  peaches,  trim  off  any  burnt  edges,  wash 
carefully,  and  stew  till  soft;  drain  off  and  save  the  juice.  Then 
mash  till  there  are  no  lumps,  either  with  a  potato-masher  or 
with  the  hand,  which  is  better  ;  add  enough  of  the  juice  to 
make  the  pies  sufficiently  moist,  mixing  it  well  with  the 
fruit.  In  the  meantime,  prepare  a  good  cream  paste,  and 
roll  the  crusts  rather  thin  ;  having  lined  the  pie-pans,  spread 
the  fruit  sparingly,  lay  on  the  top  crusts,  and  press  the 
edges  fii-nily  together  ;  after  which,  trim  with  a  knife,  and 
finish  the  rims  neatly.  Prick  well,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  twenty  minutes,  or  till  the  crusts  are  done,  but  not  a 
moment  longer  ;  if  overdone,  the  fruit  will  be  bitter. 

"  Turnovers "  are  made  as  follows  :  Boll  the  crust  pretty 
thin,  and  just  the  size  of  the  pie-pan ;  after  placing  it  on 
the  latter,  spread  the  fruit  not  too  thick,  on  one  half  of  the 
crust,  and  turn  the  other  half  over  it ;  then  pinch  the  edges 
together.  Finish  very  neatly,  prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  and 
bake  as  before.  Turnovers,  well  made,  and  with  good  dried 
peaches,  are  not  to  be  despised  ;  they  are  convenient  for 
traveling  lunches,  and  are  better  relished  than  plain  bread. 

Dried  Apple  Pie. 

Dried  apple  pies  have  come  into  very  bad  repute,  owing 
to  the  "  depravity  "  of  their  makers,  rather  than  of  the  pies 
themselves  ;  these  would  be  better  thought  of,  if  made  as 
they  ought  to  be.  In  the  first  place,  never  put  into  a  pie 
fruit  that  you  would  not  eat  out  of  it ;  in  other  words,  take 
good  apples,  or  none.  Look  them  over  very  carefully, 
trimming  off  any  burnt  edges  or  defective  spots  ;  then  wash 
quickly  but  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  rubbing  well  with  the 
hands,  and  lifting  the  apples  out  of  it  to  leave  any  sediment 
behind  ;  wash  in  two  waters,  if  necessary.  Then  drop  into 
boiling  water  (enough  to  cook  them),  and  stew  rather  fast 
12 


164  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II, 

till  soft.  When  done,  drain  off  and  save  the  juice,  and 
mash  the  apples  very  fine,  leaving  no  lumps  ;  then  stir  into 
them  a  part  of  the  juice  drained  off,  of  which  there  should 
be  enough  to  make  the  fruit  rather  moist.  Line  the  pie- 
pans  with  a  cream  paste  mixed  quite  stiff,  and  rolled  pretty 
thin ;  add  the  mashed  fruit,  spreading  it  less  than  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  put  on  the  top  crusts,  also  thin.  Press  the 
edges  well  together,  trim  off  closely  with  a  knife,  and  finish 
as  neatly  as  possible.  Prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes,  or  just  till  the  crusts  are 
done,  and  slightly  browned.  Serve  cold  ;  grape  juice  is  a 
good  accompaniment. 

Apple  Cobbler.=|= 

Pare  good  rich  apples,  moderately  tart,  and  not  too  ripe  ; 
core  and  quarter,  or  cut  into  eighths,  and  put  them  into  a 
dish  that  is  two  or  three  inches  deep,  and  made  of  stone- 
ware or  granitized  iron.  Add  a  little  water,  unless  the  fruit 
is  very  juicy,  and  cover  with  the  ordinary  cream  paste,  roll- 
ing it  about  twice  the  usual  thickness  ;  prick  well  with  a 
fork.  Then  bake  in  an  even  oven  about  an  hour  and  a 
quarter,  moderating  the  heat  toward  the  last,  and  taking 
care  not  to  scorch  the  crust ;  you  may  lay  a  paper  over  the 
top,  if  it  browns  too  fast.  The  long,  slow  cooking  gives  the 
fruit  a  fine,  rich  taste.  This  pie  makes  a  very  good  break- 
fast dish  ;  it  is  served  in  the  bake-pan.  You  may  make  it 
in  the  afternoon  for  the  following  morning,  or  early  in  the 
morning  for  the  noonday  meal. 

Another  way,  very  good,  is  to  bake  in  a  quick  oven  forty 
to  fifty  minutes,  and  serve  as  soon  as  cold.  Or  you  may  fill 
the  pan  with  the  sliced  apples,  adding  no  water,  and  if  the 
fruit  is  a  mild  acid,  no  sugar  ;  then  cover  with  either  a  light 
cream  paste,  or  a  cream  batter  paste  ;  if  the  latter  is  used, 
bake  an  hour,  and  serve  warm. 


PART  II.]  PASTRIES.  165 

Peach  Cobbler.  =jj= 

Select  good  peaches,  fresh  from  the  orchard,  and  not  over- 
ripe ;  they  should  be  barely  mellow  ;  clingstones  are  best. 
Wash  them,  and  rub  with  a  coarse  cloth  to  remove  the 
down.  If  large,  pare  them,  care  being  taken  to  make  the 
paiings  as  thin  as  possible  ;  the  best  of  the  fruit  lies  imme- 
diately under  the  skin.  If  the  peaches  are  small,  but  rea- 
sonably fair  and  smooth,  you  need  not  peel ;  simply  wash 
well,  and  remove  the  blemished  portions.  When  ready,  put 
them  into  a  deep  pan  of  granitized  iron,  or  in  a  wide  and 
rather  deep  basin  of  stone  or  earthen  ware,  adding  cold 
water  till  it  rises  pretty  well  up  the  sides  of  the  dish.  Cover 
with  a  stir!  cream  paste,  mixed  as  for  other  pies,  and  rolled 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  prick  well  with  a  fork, 
cut  a  good  cross-slit  in  the  center,  and  place  in  a  moderate 
oven  ;  bake  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  pie.  Eeduce  the  heat  as  the  baking  pro- 
ceeds, and  invert  a  pan  over  the  top  if  it  browns  too  fast. 
When  done  and  nearly  cold,  lift  off  the  crust,  and  turn  half 
the  fruit  into  a  deep  earthen  bowl ;  then  lay  back  part  of 
the  crust,  and  pour  over  it  the  rest  of  the  peaches  ;  cover 
with  the  crust  that  remains,  placing  it  right  side  up,  and 
set  the  pie  away  in  a  cool  place  for  several  hours,  or  over 
night,  before  serving.  If  the  bake-pan  is  not  pretty  deep, 
you  had  better  stew  some  peaches  prepared  as  for  the  pie, 
and  pour  over  as  you  break  it  up  ;  this  will  make  plenty  of 
juice.  Stew  the  sauce  slowly,  in  not  too  much  water,  and 
cool  before  adding  it. 

If  preferred,  leave  the  pie  unbroken,  set  it  away  till  cold, 
and  serve  in  the  dish,  cutting  the  crust  in  regular  pieces. 
If  freestone  peaches  are  used,  peel  them,  cut  in  halves,  take 
out  the  pits,  and  be  careful  to  remove  any  bitter  portions 
about  the  latter.  Yellow  peaches  of  good  rich  flavor, 
clings  or  freestones,  are  excellent. 


166  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IK 

Peach  Cobbler.  =J= 

The  pie  described  in  the  preceding  recipe  is  a  North 
Carolina  dish — or  was,  forty  years  ago — except  that  the 
latter  had  both  an  under  and  upper  crust.  A  cobbler  more 
easily  made  and  more  tasteful  in  appearance,  is  the  follow- 
ing : 

Take  a  pan  about  two  inches  deep,  made  of  earthen  or 
granitized  iron  ware,  and  fill  it  with  ripe  peeled  peaches, 
cling  or  freestone  ;  if  with  clingstones,  gash  deeply  with  a 
knife,  leaving  the  stones  in  ;  then  add  cold  water  till  it  rises 
half-way  up  the  sides,  and  cover  with  a  crust  of  light  cream 
paste,  rolled  to  twice  the  usual  thickness.  Prick  with  a 
fork,  cut  a  cross-slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake  in  an  even 
oven  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  or  till  the  fruit  is  done.  Serve 
in  the  dish  as  soon  as  cold,  cutting  the  pie  in  regular  pieces. 
You  may  make  with  cut  rhubarb  in  the  same  way,  using 
sugar  to  sweeten,  and  very  little  water. 

Berry  Cobbler.  =§= 

Line  a  granitized  iron  pan  two  inches  deep  with  a  firm 
cream  paste,  rolling  it  about  twice  as  thick  as  for  ordinary 
pies  ;  then  fill  with  ripe  blackberries,  half -ripe  gooseberries, 
or  other  small  fruit.  Sweeten  if  necessary,  lay  on  a  thick 
crust,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  cut  a  wide  cross-slit  in  the 
middle.  Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven,  about  forty  minutes  ; 
both  crusts  must  be  well  done,  and  moderately  browned  ; 
the  top  must  neither  blister  nor  scorch.  When  taken  from 
the  oven,  carefully  remove  the  pie  from  the  pan,  and  set  it 
away  on  a  plate  or  platter  large  enough  to  hold  it.  Serve 
cold  the  same  day  ;  and  do  not  cut  before  it  is  needed,  as 
the  juice  will  run  out. 

Cherry  Cobbler. 

Make  like  the  preceding,  using  seeded  cherries  instead  of 
berries  ;  the  black  morello  cherries  are  best,  both  for  pies 


PART  II.]  PASTRIES.  167 

and  sauce.  What  is  known  in  the  markets  as  the  English 
morello,  which  has  short  stems,  thick  flesh,  and  a  small  seed, 
is  very  good.     It  is  red,  not  black. 

Huckleberry  Cobbler. 

Line  a  bake-dish  with  a  good  cream  paste  rolled  twice  as 
thick  as  for  common  pie-crust,  and  fill  it  nearly  full  with 
huckleberries ;  the  dish  should  be  about  two  inches  in 
depth.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  crust 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  when  you  have  pressed  together 
and  finished  the  edges,  prick  well  with  a  fork,  cut  a  cross- 
slit  in  the  center,  and  bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven  from 
forty  to  fifty  minutes,  or  till  the  bottom  crust  is  done. 
Then  slip  the  pie  on  a  platter,  and  cool  before  you  serve  it. 

You  may  use  light  cream  paste  for  "  cobbler  "  pies  ;  but 
the  ordinary  kind  is  preferable,  particularly  when  there  is 
an  under  crust ;  it  is  not  so  apt  to  burst  in  baking,  and  it  is 
sweeter. 

Apple  Dumplings.  =f= 

Pare  sound  tart  apples  of  medium  size,  and  not  over- 
ripe ;  cut  in  halves,  take  out  the  cores,  and  then  wash 
quickly  in  cold  water  to  remove  the  knife-rust.  Make  a 
light  cream  paste,  as  per  recipe  already  given  ;  it  must  be 
pretty  stiff ;  pinch  off  bits  of  the  dough,  and  roll  to  the 
thickness  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  in  a  long  or  oval  shape,  and 
just  large  enough  to  cover  two  halves  of  the  apples  fitted 
together.  Wet  the  margin  of  the  crust  by  dipping  the  fin- 
ger in  cold  water,  so  that  the  dough  will  adhere  ;  then 
place  the  fruit  within  it,  bring  up  the  edges,  and  pinch 
firmly  together.  No  water  is  needed,  if  the  apples  are  juicy 
and  recently  washed.  Put  the  dumplings  into  a  bread-pan, 
slightly  oiled,  and  space  them  well  apart,  so  they  will  not 
touch  each  other  ;  prick  on  top  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  nearly  an  hour,  or  till  the  apple  is  done  j 


168  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

turn  once  or  twice — if  they  do  not  stick  to  the  dish — to 
brown  the  sides  more  thoroughly.  Take  out  a  few  minutes 
before  serving.  If  sauce  is  required,  use  stewed  or  canned 
raspberries ;  or  you  may  make  a  dressing  by  stewing  tart 
apples  (not  too  ripe)  a  long  time,  until  the  sauce  is  smooth  ; 
you  can  flavor  the  latter  by  stirring  into  it  a  little  thick 
raspberry  juice,  if  you  like.  These  dumplings  are  very  good 
warmed  over  the  next  day,  the  crust  being  more  crisp  and 
tender  than  at  first. 

Baked  dumplings  are  drier  than  steamed,  and  the 
steamed  ones  better  than  boiled. 

Berry  Dumplings.=§= 

Make  a  light  cream  paste,  as  in  the  last  recipe,  mixing  it 
very  stiff  ;  then  pinch  off  bits  the  size  wanted,  and  roll  each 
into  a  round  piece,  fully  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Moisten 
the  rim  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  put  in  the  berries ; 
bring  the  two  edges  together,  making  a  long  oval-shaped 
dumpling,  and  pinch  well  to  secure  the  fruit.  Space  in  the 
pan,  so  they  will  not  touch  each  other,  and  bake  from  thirty 
to  forty  minutes,  or  till  the  crust  is  done  ;  if  they  brown  too 
fast  on  top,  lay  a  paper  over  them.  The  small  fruits  re- 
quire a  moderate  oven  ;  if  baked  too  much,  the  berries  taste 
bitter. 

A  good  plan  is  to  set  the  pan  or  dish  containing  the 
dumplings  inside  a  dripping-pan  with  a  trifle  of  boiling 
water  in  it,  and  bake  till  the  paste  is  done;  the  moisture 
from  the  water  prevents  the  crust  (and  the  berries  beneath 
it)  from  cooking  too  fast.  It  would  require  about  an  hour, 
if  cooked  in  this  way. 

Berry  dumplings  are  good  steamed,  provided  they  cook 
fast,  and  without  touching  each  other;  it  is  best  to  wrap 
each  in  a  napkin  before  putting  it  into  the  steamer.  They 
should  be  served  as  soon  as  done,  with  fruit  or  fruit  juice — - 
or  if  this  is  not  relished,  try  cream  and  sugar. 


part  ii.]  vegetables.  169 

Cherry  Dumplings. 
Seed  the  cherries,  and  make  as  in  the  preceding  recipe. 

Fruit  Rolly-Poly. 

Prepare  a  light  cream  paste,  roll  it  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  spread  on  the  fruit;  you  may  use  raspberries, 
blackberries,  huckleberries,  seeded  cherries,  sliced  peaches, 
or  apples  sliced  or  chopped;  any  of  these  are  excellent;  so 
are  dried  cherries,  sweet  currants,  sliced  figs,  or  other  sweet 
fruits.  Or  in  winter,  you  may  take  dried  apples  or  peaches, 
first  stewing  them,  and  mashing  till  smooth.  When  the 
fruit  is  spread,  begin  at  one  end  of  the  pastry  and  roll  it  up 
tightly,  pinching  the  ends  well  together  to  secure  the  con- 
tents. Lay  the  roll  in  a  small  iron  pan,  and  bake  in  an  even 
oven  about  an  hour.  Serve  not  too  warm.  If  a  dressing  is 
required  take  stewed  or  canned  fruit,  fruit  juice,  or  thin 
cream. 

These  rolly-polies  are  very  good  steamed;  make  as  above, 
cover  with  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  old  napkin  or  table- 
linen,  and  lay  in  a  steamer.  If  the  latter  has  holes  in  the 
bottom,  put  the  roll  on  a  pie-pan  and  set  it  in,  with  two  or 
three  small  bits  of  wood  underneath  to  let  the  steam  up. 
Cook  two  hours  without  lifting  the  lid;  then  send  to  the 
table,  and  serve  warm. 

Never  boil,  if  you  can  steam;  steamed  paste  is  lighter 
than  boiled,  and  much  more  wholesome. 

VEGETABLES. 

The  way  to  make  vegetables  palatable,  is  first,  to  have 
them  fresh;  and  second,  to  cook  them  so  as  to  waste  as  lit- 
tle of  their  own  savory  juices  as  possible.  To  do  this,  boil 
or  stew  them  quickly,  and  remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as 
done.  The  rule  that  applies  with  scarcely  an  exception,  is 
to  drop  into  boiling  water  (just  enough  to  cook  them),  cover 


170  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

closely,  and  cook  rapidly  till  done.  Another  rule,  not  merely 
for  vegetables,  but  for  grains  and  fruits  as  well,  is  never  to 
fill  up  with  water  that  is  not  boiling  hot.  Most  vegetables 
are  excellent  steamed  ;  steamers  are  now  made  with  several 
chambers,  so  that  three  or  more  kinds  of  foods  can  be 
cooked  at  once,  without  the  slightest  admixture  of  flavors. 
In  the  absence  of  a  steamer,  most  vegetables  should  be 
cooked  in  vessels  that  are  porcelain-lined,  or  made  of  grani- 
tized  iron.  Beans,  beets,  peas  and  potatoes,  may  be  boiled 
in  iron  pots  ;  these  should  always  be  washed  and  thoroughly 
dried  immediately  after  using,  and  then  set  away  in  a  dry 
place  to  prevent  rusting. 

Vegetables,  as  a  rule,  should  be  served  at  dinner  ;  and 
(by  invalids  certainly)  they  should  never  be  eaten  at  the 
same  meal  with  fruits. 

Those  that  have  been  several  days  in  the  market,  as 
string  beans,  peas,  beets,  etc.,  are  tougher,  and  require  lon- 
ger to  cook  than  if  fresh  from  the  field  or  garden.  On  ac- 
count of  the  huckster  system  which  prevails  in  some  cities, 
most  vegetables  do  not  reach  the  markets  until  some  time 
after  they  are  gathered  ;  then  they  are  too  stale  to  be  eaten 
with  safety,  much  less  with  a  good  relish. 

In  cooking  vegetables,  the  following  general  rules  will  be 
of  service  ;  and  by  a  careful  observance  of  them,  there  will 
be  less  need  of  seasoning,  to  cover  up  the  insipid  taste — or 
rather,  lack  of  taste — that  comes  from  wasting  the  fine 
flavors  that  belong  to  them. 

1.  If  possible,  have  all  your  vegetables  fresh  ;  when  stale 
they  lose  their  natural  sweetness,  as  well  as  their  nutritive 
qualities.  Peas  and  corn  especially,  should  be  cooked  the 
day  they  are  gathered  ;  certainly  never  later  than  the  fol- 
lowing morning. 

2.  Boil  in  soft,  pure  water,  if  you  have  it ;  should  the 
water  be  muddy,  either  filter  it,  or  boil  and  settle  before 
using. 


PART  II.]  VEGETABLES.  171 

3.  For  most  vegetables,  boil  in  no  more  water  than  will 
cook  them  ;  in  other  words,  leave  none  to  drain  off,  or  most 
of  the  sweetness  will  be  lost. 

4  Boil  rapidly — or  steam  rapidly  ;  no  slow  cooking  to 
soak  out  the  juices. 

5.  As  a  rule,  do  not  soak  the  vegetables  before  cooking, 
particularly  if  newly  gathered.  If  actually  wilted  with  the 
hot  sun,  some  kinds  (as  cabbage,  cauliflower,  etc.)  may  be 
improved  by  lying  half  an  hour  in  very  cold  water.  But 
ordinarily,  that  which  requires  soaking  to  make  it  palatable, 
should  be  thrown  away. 

6.  Gook  till  done,  and  not  a  moment  longer. 

7.  Do  not  scorch  in  finishing  ;  the  moment  a  vegetable  is 
scorched,  its  sweetness  is  gone  forever. 

8.  Serve  nearly  all  vegetables  after  they  have  cooled  a 
little  ;  habituate  yourself  to  this,  and  you  will  find  that  the 
flavor  is  much  more  delicate  than  when  eaten  hot. 

9.  Look  at  the  quality  of  the  article  you  buy  ;  there  is  a 
great  difference  in  "  families,"  not  only  among  people  and 
animals,  but  among  plants.  It  is  well,  first  of  all,  to  look 
after  their  pedigree,  and  then,  their  "bringing  up";  it 
takes  good  stock  and  good  rearing,  to  secure  the  best  results. 
If  you  make  your  own  garden,  plant  only  the  best  seed. 

10.  When  you  bring  the  vegetables  from  market  put 
them  in  a  cool,  clean  place  in  the  cellar,  till  the  cook  wants 
them.  This  means  a  well-kept  cellar,  with  a  cool  north  room 
in  it,  thoroughly  ventilated. 

11.  Charge  your  grocer,  and  the  market  men,  not  to  leave 
their  potatoes  and  other  vegetables  standing  for  hours  in 
the  sunshine,  or  even  near  a  window,  as  a  strong  light 
injures  them.  Potatoes  should  always  be  kept  in  a  dry, 
dark  place.     (See  Hints  on  Marketing.) 

12.  Keep  one  or  two  porcelain  kettles  specially  for  vege- 
tables, as  many  kinds  can  hardly  be  cooked  in  iron  without 
being   discolored.     And  if  you  must  use    iron   pots,   keep 


172  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

them  clean  and  dry  ;  never  let  them  stand  round  with  water 
or  slops  in  them.  Beware  of  earthen  or  stone  vessels  ;  they 
are  often  lined  with  lead  glaze,  which  is  very  poisonous, 

The  Potato. 

When  we  consider  that  the  potato  is  perhaps  the  most 
valuable  of  all  the  vegetables,  it  is  quite  remarkable  that  so 
few  persons  know  how  to  cook  it  properly.  And  it  is  equally 
strange  that  not  one  farmer  in  ten  understands  how  to  grow 
it  as  it  should  be.*  Many  potatoes  are  badly  injured  by 
not  being  dug  as  soon  as  they  are  ripe  ;  they  lie  in  the 
ground  till  they  are  injured  by  rains  which  start  them  to 
« growing,"  and  make  them  watery.  A  further  damage  is 
done  by  the  grocer  or  huckster,  who  exposes  them  to  the 
light  and  often  to  the  sunshine,  until  they  are  strong  to  the 
taste,  and  almost  green  in  color.  So  that  by  the  time  this 
vegetable  has  passed  through  the  hands  of  the  farmer,  the 
market -man,  the  grocer  and  the  cook,  it  is  no  longer  the 
fine  mealy  potato  that  we  relished  in  childhood. 

Potatoes  in  Jackets.  =J= 

Select  potatoes  of  nearly  uniform  size,  and  wash  quickly, 
keeping  them  in  the  water  as  short  a  time  as  possible.  If 
there  are  large  ones,  cut  them  through  the  middle.  In  wet 
seasons  they  are  often  hollow  in  the  center,  in  which  case 
you  must  cut  them  open  and  trim  out  the  hollow  part. 
After  washing,  clip  off  a  little  at  each  end  (it  will  make 
them  drier),  and  remove  any  blemishes  ;  and  just  twenty 
minutes  before  the  bell  rings  for  dinner,  drop  the  potatoes 
into  boiling  water,  having  about  two-thirds  enough  to  cover 
them,  and  boil  rapidly  till  done.  The  very  instant  a  fork 
will   pierce  them  easily,  lift  from  the  fire  ;  if  they  boil  a 


*  See  Dr.  John  McLaurin's  little  work  entitled,  "The  Model  Potato.'' 
For  sale  by  Fowler  &  Wells.     Price  50  cents. 


PAKT  II.]  VEGETABLES.  173 

minute  too  long  they  lose  their  fine  flavor,  and  are  more  or 
less  watery.  In  cold  weather,  set  the  tureen  and  its  cover 
where  they  will  get  warm  ;  and  when  the  potatoes  are  done 
pour  off  all  the  water,  hoiding  the  lid  rather  loosely  over  the 
top  of  the  pot.  Then  shut  closely  to  retain  the  steam,  and 
set  the  pot  back  in  a  hot  place  ;  keep  it  closed  till  the  pota- 
toes are  wanted,  which  should  be  immediately.  In  dishing 
into  the  tureen  do  it  quickly  (some  lay  a  folded  napkin 
in  the  bottom  of  it  to  absorb  the  moisture),  and  put  on  its 
lid.  Always  cover  between  servings,  or  those  helped  last 
will  get  cold  potatoes. 

Boiled  Potatoes. — (Peeled.)  =$= 

Potatoes,  peeled  or  unpeeled,  should  never  stand  in  water; 
it  gives  them  a  washed-out  taste,  and  makes  them  wet.  It 
is  better  therefore  in  preparing  (if  they  are  not  actually 
muddy),  to  peel  before  wetting  them,  and  then  wash  as 
quickly  as  possible,  trimming  off  any  little  defects  afterward; 
the  large  ones  you  may  cut  through  the  middle.  Twenty 
minutes  before  sitting  down  to  table,  drop  the  potatoes  into 
boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  boil  fast;  have  little  more 
than  enough  water  to  cook  them.  The  moment  a  fork  will 
go  through  them,  take  the  pot  from  the  fire,  and  drain  as 
dry  as  possible;  then  return  it  to  the  stove,  tightly  closed, 
and  set  in  a  hot  place  where  any  remaining  moisture  will  be 
converted  into  steam.  Having  warmed  the  tureen  and  its 
lid,  dish  quickly,  cover  at  once,  and  send  directly  to  the 
table;  keep  the  lid  on  between  servings.  When  a  large 
quantity  is  cooked  together,  the  potatoes  can  be  kept  fresh 
for  a  long  time  in  their  own  steam,  by  setting  the  vessel  iu 
a  hot  place  and  keeping  it  tightly  covered;  the  hot  steam 
preserves  them  dry  and  mealy.  The  best  place  for  a  potato 
to  "  dry  out "  is  not  in  the  pot,  but  on  one's  plate,  between 
serving  and  eating. 


174  health  in  the  household.  [part  ii. 

Mashed  Potatoes. =|= 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes,  as  per  recipe  just  given;  and 
as  soon  as  a  fork  will  go  through  them,  drain  off  all  the 
water.  Set  the  pot  back  in  a  hot  place,  and  mash  imme- 
diately; the  moisture  will  evaporate  while  you  crush  them. 
When  free  from  lumps,  beat  with  a  fork  till  they  are  white 
and  flaky.  Do  all  this  very  quickly;  then  dish  lightly  into 
a  hot  tureen,  cover  closely,  and  send  to  the  table.  Avoid 
filling  the  dish  too  full,  or  pressing  down  the  potatoes  with 
a  spoon;  but  leave  them  as  light  and  feathery  as  possible. 
In  serving,  do  not  skim  over  the  top,  but  begin  at  one  side 
and  cut  through  to  the  bottom,  leaving  the  mass  of  the 
potato  undisturbed;  then  remove  the  spoon  and  adjust  the 
cover,  to  keep  in  the  heat  till  the  next  serving. 

Model-Cooked  Potatoes. 

This  recipe  is  from  the  late  Dr.  Trail's  new  cook-book. 
For  potatoes  that  are  good  cooked  with  the  skins  on  (not 
too  old  or  sunburnt),  the  method  here  described  is  no  doubt 
a  good  one;  it  requires  more  time  and  a  steadier  heat  than 
the  ordinary  way  : 

"Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size;  wash  quickly  in  cold 
water,  without  cutting;  put  them  in  a  kettle,  or  tight-lidded 
sauce-pan,  filling  the  vessel  about  two-thirds  full;  cover 
tightly,  and  cook  them  in  their  own  juices.  They  should 
be  put  in  an  oven,  or  over  a  fire  sufficiently  hot  to  convert 
the  water  they  contain  into  steam.  As  soon  as  softened, 
they  can  be  peeled  and  placed  on  the  table,  or  served  with 
their  skins  on.  Cooked  in  this  manner,  potatoes  have  a  rich- 
ness of  flavor  unknown  to  any  other  method." 

Steamed  Potatoes. 

Potatoes,  peeled  or  unpeeled,  cook  very  nicely  in  a 
steamer.    The  water  should  be  boiling  and  the  steamer  hot, 


PART  II.  j  VEGETABLES.  175 

before  they  are  put  in  ;  and  they  should  cook  rapidly  till 
done.  If  they  can  not  be  served  immediately,  leave  them 
in  the  steamer,  keeping  it  closely  covered  till  they  are 
wanted. 

Browned  Mashed  Potato.+ 

Take  cold  mashed  potato,  and  crush  a  second  time  till 
there  are  no  lumps;  then  fill  a  pie-pan  or  other  shallow 
dish  (not  too  full),  smooth  the  top  with  a  knife,  place  in  a 
hot  oven,  and  brown  quickly.  Serve  as  soon  as  done. 
Another  method  is  to  form  into  little  biscuits  hardly  an 
inch  thick,  and  brown  as  before.  The  potato  sticks  to- 
gether better,  if  moistened  with  a  little  milk. 

Browned  Sliced  Potatoes.=(= 

Take  cold  boiled  potatoes,  clip  off  the  wet  ends,  and  peel 
if  they  are  in  jackets,  throwing  out  any  faulty  ones;  then 
slice  into  a  skillet  or  pie-pan,  oiled  just  enough  to  keep 
them  from  sticking,  and  set  where  they  will  brown  quickly 
without  scorching.  As  soon  as  a  thin  crust  forms  at  the 
bottom,  turn  them  over,  and  brown  again  in  the  same  man- 
ner; then  dish,  and  serve  immediately.  Potatoes  warmed 
over  in  this  way,  are  dry,  crisp  and  flaky;  but  if  allowed 
to  stand  before  serving,  either  in  the  skillet  or  tureen,  they 
become  wet  and  clammy. 

Cold  mashed  potatoes  may  be  warmed  over  in  the  same 
way. 

Stewed  Potatoes. 

Potatoes  can  be  cooked  on  short  notice,  as  follows:  Wash, 
peel  and  slice  into  a  skillet  or  stew-pan;  put  in  as  little 
boiling  water  as  will  cook  them,  and  stew  covered,  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes;  when  done,  the  water  should  all  be  evap- 
orated.    Dish,  and  serve  immediately. 


176  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 


Baked  Potatoes.  =[= 

Select  smooth  potatoes  of  nearly  uniform  size,  and  wash 
thoroughly  but  quickly,  not  allowing  them  to  stand  in  the 
water.  Pare  off  any  defects,  and  place  them  in  a  moderate 
oven,  spacing  a  little  apart.  If  baked  too  fast  they  will 
blister,  and  not  be  good;  they  may  require  turning  once  or 
twice.  The  very  moment  they  are  done,  take  a  clean  nap- 
kin and  crush  each  one  in  the  hand — not  into  a  shapeless 
mass,  but  enough  to  puncture  the  skin  and  let  out  the 
steam.  Then  lay  them  in  an  open  tureen,  and  send  to  the 
table. 

A  baked  potato,  to  be  first-rate,  should  be  eaten  as  soon 
as  done.  When  this  is  impossible,  the  next  best  thing  is  to 
crush  each  as  here  described,  and  keep  them  in  a  warm 
place  till  wanted. 

Baked  Potatoes. — (Peeled.)  ^= 

Peel  the  potatoes,  wash  quickly,  lifting  them  out  of  the 
water  as  soon  as  possible,  and  place  a  little  apart  on  the 
grate;  the  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  brown  moderately 
without  scorching.  When  done,  crush  each  in  a  napkin,  as 
described  in  the  last  recipe ;  just  enough  to  crack  the  crust 
and  let  out  the  steam.  Put  them  on  a  plate,  or  into  an 
open  tureen,  and  serve. 

Old  potatoes,  if  baked,  should  always  be  peeled  before- 
hand. 

Roasted  Potatoes. 

Wash  clean,  cover  with  ashes  not  too  hot,  and  then  with 
coals;  these  will  need  renewing  occasionally,  unless  the  roast- 
ing is  done  very  near  the  main  fire.  Potatoes  cooked  in 
this  way  are  dry,  mealy,  and  rich  in  flavor. 


PART  H.]  VEGETABLES.  177 


Sweet  Potatoes.  4= 


In  buying,  see  that  they  are  not  covered  over  with  little 
sprouts;  these  are  caused  by  heavy  rains,  which  have  start- 
ed the  potatoes  to  "  growing  " ;  in  this  condition  they  are 
injured  in  flavor,  and  inclined  to  be  watery. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  best  either  boiled  or  steamed,  and 
then  browned  in  the  oven.  First,  wash  and  trim  them, 
clipping  off  black  or  straggling  ends;  should  any  be  partly 
decayed,  throw  them  out.  If  you  boil,  use  as  little  water 
(boiling)  as  will  cook  them;  this  makes  them  drier  and 
sweeter;  then  cook  rapidly,  until  a  fork  will  go  through 
them  rather  easily.  When  done,  strip  off  the  skins;  if  be- 
neath these,  and  about  the  ends  of  the  potatoes,  you  find 
a  dark  substance  deposited  (due  to  wet  weather),  remove 
that  also,  as "  it  is  very  indigestible.  Place  in  a  hot  oven, 
and  brown  thoroughly  about  twenty  minutes;  or  if  rather 
wet,  they  may  remain  in  half  an  hour. 

If  you  steam  before  finishing  in  the  oven,  cook  till  the 
potatoes  are  tender,  and  then  peel  and  brown  as  before. 
The  chief  error  to  guard  against  in  cooking  this  vegetable, 
is  in  boiling  or  steaming  it  too  much,  making  it  watery;  or 
in  taking  it  out  before  it  is  fairly  done,  which  renders  it 
harsh  and  unpalatable. 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes.  =J= 

Take  sweet  potatoes  left  from  the  previous  meal,  and  if 
they  have  not  been  peeled  remove  the  skins;  then  mash 
fine,  spread  on  a  pie-pan,  and  brown  in  a  brisk  oven  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  they  are  quite  as  good  as  fresh. 

Another  way  is  to  slice  instead  of  mashing,  and  then 
brown;  or  you  may  lay  them  in  the  oven  whole,  after  re- 
moving the  skins. 


178  health  in  the  household.  [part  ii. 

Dried  Sweet  Potatoes. 

First  steam  or  boil  the  potatoes,  then  peel,  cut  in  slices, 
and  dry.  To  cook  them,  soak  the  dried  pieces  over  night 
in  a  closed  vessel,  having  as  little  water  as  will  cover  them; 
then  heat  in  the  same  water,  mashing  and  stirring  them  un- 
til it  is  all  evaporated.  They  should  be  as  dry  as  possible 
when  done. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Sweet  potatoes  if  smooth,  and  free  from  blemishes,  may 
be  simply  washed,  and  baked  in  a  hot  oven;  when  they  are 
rather  wet,  this  is  a  good  way,  as  it  makes  them  drier  than 
if  boiled.  A  better  method  perhaps,  is  to  put  them  into  a 
shallow  pan,  add  a  trifle  of  boiling  water,  and  let  them  steam 
a  little,  before  they  bake. 

Tomatoes,  etc. 

Tomatoes,  melons,  squashes  and  pumpkins,  dietetically 
considered,  must  be  classed  among  vegetables,  from  the 
simple  fact  that  they  are  more  easily  digested  with  these 
than  with  fruits.  Green  corn  also — which  is  an  immature 
grain — does,  if  anything,  better  with  vegetables,  though  it 
can  be  eaten  with  either. 

The  tomato  is  one  of  the  best  and  most  wholesome  of 
the  garden  products;  the  Trophy  and  Livingston  are  fine 
varieties. 

Sliced  Tomatoes.=§= 

Wash  good  fresh  tomatoes,  not  too  ripe,  and  peel  without 
scalding;  then  slice  very  thin,  and  send  to  the  table.  If 
preferred  cold,  let  them  stand  in  ice-water  half  an  hour, 
before  peeling;  or  you  may  set  them  in  the  refrigerator 
after  they  are  sliced.  They  are  good  enough  without 
seasoning. 


part  ii.]  vegetables.  179 

Stewed  Tomatoes.=|= 

Pour  over  the  tomatoes  boiling  water,  and  as  soon  as  the 
skins  will  slip,  remove  them;  slice  very  thin  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  set  on  the  stove;  do  not  add  any  water.  Let 
them  come  to  a  boil,  and  cook  slowly  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  fast  cooking  destroys  their  fine  flavor.  Some 
prefer  them  stewed  longer,  until  perfectly  smooth. 

Stewed  Tomatoes.  =§= 

Wash,  scald,  peel  and  slice,  as  in  the  preceding  recipe; 
add  no  water;  crumb  stale  bread — good  home-made  Gra- 
ham loaf — into  the  cold  tomatoes,  pour  all  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  heat  to  boiling;  then  set  them  back  a  little, 
where  they  will  stew  slowly  at  least  an  hour  and  a  half;  stir 
frequently,  till  done.  Instead  of  ordinary  bread-crumbs, 
you  may  take  bits  of  brown  toast;  or  in  place  of  either, 
stir  in  a  little  thickening  of  Graham  flour  and  water,  before 
heating. 

A  good  dish  is  made  by  adding  one-fourth  as  much  green 
corn  as  there  are  tomatoes;  slice  the  latter  very  thin,  and 
stew  till  smooth;  then  stir  in  the  com,  thinly  shaven,  and 
stew  or  bake  half  an  hour. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  as  in  the  last  recipe  but  one,  cooking 
till  they  are  fine  and  smooth.  Then  take  thin  slices  of  loaf 
bread,  and  brown  evenly  till  it  is  quite  dry.  Pour  the  hot 
stewed  tomatoes  over  the  toast,  and  when  cooled  a  little, 
serve. 

Baked  Tomatoes.  =4= 

"Wash,  but  do  not  scald  the  tomatoes;  see  that  they  are 

fresh.     Then  peel  and  slice,  and  add  about  half  as  much 

broken  bread  as  there  are  tomatoes;  a  small  portion  finely 

grated,  and  the  rest  in  large  crumbs  or  crusty  pieces;  some 

*    13 


180  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

add  a  little  chopped  onion.  Mix  thoroughly,  pour  into  a 
granitized  iron  pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours; 
brown  well  at  the  last.  This  dish,  prepared  with  good 
home-made  Graham  loaf  (stale),  is  excellent;  the  long  slow 
baking  makes  it  rich  in  flavor. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

Wash,  scald,  peel  and  slice,  add  crumbs  of  stale  bread, 
or  slices  of  nicely  browned  toast,  and  stew  slowly  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour;  stir  often;  then  turn  into  a  dish,  and 
bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Another  method  is  to  wash  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  re- 
moving the  hard  portions  about  the  stems;  then  fill  the 
cavities  with  fine  bread-crumbs,  arrange  in  a  pudding-dish, 
cover,  and  set  in  the  oven.  Bake  half  an  hour,  then  un- 
cover, and  brown  ten  minutes. 


Tomatoes  with  Corn. 

Scald,  peel  and  slice,  as  in  the  last  recipe,  and  cook  in  a 
porcelain  kettle  half  an  hour;  then  add  one-third  or  one- 
fourth  the  quantity  of  green  corn  finely  shaven,  as  per 
recipe  (Corn  and  Tomatoes)  described  farther  on;  or  you 
may,  if  preferred,  split  the  grains  with  a  knife,  and  scrape 
out  the  pulp.  Put  the  corn  in  with  the  tomatoes,  and  stew 
slowly  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes;  do  not  let  the  mixture 
stick  to  the  bottom. 

Or,  instead  of  stewing,  turn  the  whole  into  an  oiled  pud- 
ding-dish ;  cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour.     Then  uncover,  and  brown  ten  minutes. 

Scrambled  Tomatoes.  4= 

Peel  without  scalding  the  tomatoes,  and  cut  them  in 
rather  large  bits  ;  they  should  not  be  too  ripe.  If  of  me- 
dium size  you  may  cut  each  in  two,  half  way  between  the 
stem  and  blossom  ;  then  cut  again,  once  or  twice,  in  the 


PART  II.]  VEGETABLES.  181 

other  direction.  Add  half  or  two-thirds  the  quantity  of 
coarse  bread-crumbs,  from  good  home-made  Graham  loaf  ; 
these  should  be  stale.  Then  put  all  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
set  it  over  a  hot  fire,  and  cook  about  five  minutes,  stirring 
lightly,  but  almost  constantly.  Lift  into  a  tureen,  and  send 
to  the  table.     An  excellent  dish. 

Scalloped   Tomatoes. 

Prepare  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  not  too  thin,  and  put  a 
layer  of  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish  ;  then  alter- 
nate with  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  or  with  thin  slices  of 
toast ;  continue  till  the  dish  is  filled,  letting  the  topmost 
layer  be  tomatoes.  Cover  with  an  old  plate,  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  about  an  hour  ;  then  uncover,  and  brown  ten 
minutes.  Some  bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  longer  if  the 
scallop  is  deep. 

Canned  Tomatoes. 

These  may  be  stewed,  baked,  scrambled  or  scalloped,  as 
in  the  preceding  recipes  ;  or  in  warm  spring  days,  they 
may  be  eaten  cold  from  the  can. 

If  baked,  the  following  is  a  good  method  :  Drain  off  the 
liquor,  and  pour  it  over  stale  bread-crumbs.  Then  cover 
the  bottom  of  a  wide  earthen  dish  with  some  dry  crumbs, 
put  in  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  and  over  this  the  crumbs  wet 
with  the  liquor.  Cover  with  a  plate,  and  bake  from  forty 
to  fifty  minutes. 

Baked  Winter   Squashes. =§= 

Winter  squashes  may  be  either  stewed,  steamed  or 
baked  ;  the  hard-shell  varieties  are  best  for  baking.  Wash 
them,  and  break  in  pieces  with  a  hatchet ;  or,  if  the  shell  is 
soft  enough,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  the  seeds  ;  cut  again 
into  pieces  of  convenient  size,  and  lay  them,  shell  down- 
ward, in  a  shallow  dish  or  bread-pan  ;  pour  in  a  little  boil- 


182  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IL 

ing  water  to  start  with,  place  in  a  pretty  hot  oven,  and  bake 
from  one  to  two  hours,  or  until  soft ;  the  squash  should  be 
dry  and  mealy  when  done. 

Stewed  Winter  Squashes.  4= 

"Wash,  cut  in  halves,  and  remove  the  seeds ;  then  slice 
and  pare  ;  cut  into  pieces  an  inch  long,  and  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan.  Add  a  little  boiling  water,  say  nearly  a  pint  to  a 
gallon  of  the  cut  squash  ;  if  not  very  ripe,  use  less  water. 
Cook  fast  from  forty  to  sixty  minutes,  or  until  tender,  not 
letting  the  vessel  get  entirely  dry  ;  should  more  water  be 
needed,  add  it  boiling  hot.  As  soon  as  the  pieces  are  soft 
lift  the  lid,  and  let  any  surplus  moisture  evaporate  ;  then 
mash  fine,  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  dish  for  the  table. 
Serve  warm,  not  hot. 

Steaming  is  a  good  way  to  cook  squashes  ;  if  they  have 
hard  shells,  prepare  as  follows  :  Cut  into  rather  large  pieces 
with  a  hatchet,  and  steam  in  the  shell  till  soft ;  then  scrape 
out,  and  send  to  the  table.  Or,  if  the  shell  will  permit,  cut 
in  slices,  remove  the  seeds,  and  peel  ;  place  in  a  closed 
steamer  over  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  soft ;  then  turn 
into  a  porcelain  kettle  with  any  water  that  remains,  and 
evaporate  it  by  frequent  stirring,  over  a  pretty  hot  fire  ; 
mash  fine,  dish  and  serve. 

Summer  Squashes.=§= 

If  necessary,  peel  the  squashes  and  remove  the  seeds  ; 
some  varieties  when  very  young,  scarcely  require  either ; 
the  kind  called  the  cymling  needs  paring,  unless  it  is  very 
young  and  fresh.  Wash,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  steam  or 
stew.  For  stewing,  put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle  with 
boiling  water  enough  to  cook  them,  and  allow  for  stewing, 
half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  some  kinds  cook  quicker 
than  others.     When  soft  lift  the  lid,  letting  the  water  nearly 


PART  II.]  VEGETABLES.  183 

all  evaporate.     A  little  cream  added  at  the  last,  makes  a 
good  seasoning* 

An  excellent  variety  of  summer  squash  is  one  with  a  long 
crooked  neck — it  is  nearly  all  neck — and  about  the  color  of  a 
ripe  orange  ;  it  has  a  rough,  warty  surface,  but  it  is  very 
tender  and  delicious  ;  if  young,  it  needs  no  peeling. 

Pumpkin. 

After  washing,  cut  in  halves,  then  slice  and  peel,  removing 
the  seeds  ;  you  may  steam,  or  stew.  To  steam,  put  the  slices 
into  a  closed  steamer,  and  cook  from  an  hour  to  an  hour 
and  a  half,  or  until  soft ;  then  turn  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
mash  smooth,  and  simmer  with  the  lid  off  till  the  water  has 
mostly  evaporated. 

If  to  be  stewed,  cut  the  slices  in  small  pieces,  and  cook 
the  same  as  squash,  only  a  little  longer  ;  say  an  hour  and  a 
quarter  to  an  hour  and  a  half  ;  never  long  enough  to  turn 
the  pumpkin  dark  in  color,  as  this  injures  its  flavor.  If  a 
little  unripe  it  will  be  more  watery,  and  will  need  longer 
cooking.     After  mashing,  stir  frequently  to  prevent  burning. 

Turnips.  + 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick ;  if  any 
of  the  turnips  are  coarse,  stringy  or  pithy,  throw  them  out ; 
then  stew  or  steam.  If  stewed,  put  an  old  saucer  or  a  small 
pie-pan,  inverted,  into  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  to  keep  the 
turnips  from  scorching  ;  add  boning  water  enough  to  cook 
them,  and  boil  fast  until  quite  soft. 

Young  turnips  that  have  grown  quickly,  will  cook  in 
thirty  to  forty  minutes  ;  while  old  tough  ones  require  nearly 
or  quite  double  the  time.  The  best,  test,  however,  is  the 
fork  ;  as  soon  as  they  are  thoroughly  tender,  remove  from 
the  fire  ;  too  much  cooking  not  only  discolors,  but  also 
makes  them  strong.  There  must  be  very  little  water  left  in 
when  done  ;  mash  fine,  and  simmer  a  few  moments,  un- 


184  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IL 

covered,  before  dishing.  Serve  lukewarm.  Two  or  three 
potatoes  cooked  and  mashed  with  the  turnips,  give  an  agree- 
able flavor.  If  any  seasoning  is  required,  stir  in  a  trifle  of 
cream  just  as  you  set  them  off. 

Swedish,  or  ruta-baga  turnips,  need  a  much  longer  time 
to  cook  than  the  white  ones  ;  they  should  have  all  of  two 
hours.  A  little  cream  added  in  the  finishing,  improves  their 
flavor.  If  you  steam,  cook  till  soft,  turn  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  if  too  much  water  remains,  evaporate  it ;  then 
mash  as  fine  as  possible. 

Parsnips.  =§= 

Wash  well,  and  scrape  with  a  knife  to  remove  the  skins  ; 
then  cut  the  parsnips  into  halves  or  quarters,  and  stew  till 
quite  soft,  in  very  little  more  water  than  will  cook  them.  It 
will  take  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  longer  if  they  are  old  ; 
do  not  let  them  get  dry  ;  there  should  be  at  least  a  gill  of 
water  remaining,  when  done.  Then  put  them  into  a  pie-pan 
or  shallow  earthen  dish,  and  pour  over  the  syrup  that  is  left 
in  the  pot ;  place  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently,  and  brown 
well  before  sending  to  the  table.  Another  way  is  to  masli 
fine,  return  to  the  pot,  and  finish  with  cream. 

Carrots. 

Prepare  and  cook  the  same  as  parsnips,  only  about  twice 
as  long.  There  is  a  small  variety  called  the  "Early  Horn," 
that  is  ready  for  use  in  July  ;  it  cooks  tender  in  an  hour, 
and  is  very  sweet.  It  may  be  boiled  in  the  same  pot  with 
young  beets. 

ASPARAGUS.+ 

Be  sure  the  asparagus  is  fresh.  If  bought  in  the  city 
market,  lay  it  in  cold  water  and  let  it  soak  a  short  time,  be- 
fore cooking;    then  cut  off  any  tough  portions,  put  the 


PART  II.]  VEGETABLES.  185 

stalks  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  start  in  boiling  water,  and 
stew  till  tender.  If  fresh  from  the  garden,  twenty-five  to 
thirty  minutes  ought  to  suffice  ;  but  much  of  it  that  we  buy 
requires  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes.  Boil  in  enough  water 
to  about  cover  ;  if  young,  it  is  good  enough  without  season- 
ing. 

Some  hygienists  think  this  vegetable  is  not  very  whole- 
some ;  they  claim  that  it,  like  onions,  is  so  largely  thrown 
off  through  the  excretory  organs  as  to  tax  them  abnormally. 
Most  of  the  asparagus  sold  in  our  city  markets,  is  too  old 
before  it  is  cut ;  instead  of  gathering  it  every  day  or  two, 
the  custom  seems  to  be  to  cut  the  stalks  only  once  or  twice 
a  week,  and  a  good  distance  below  the  surface  of  the 
ground  ;  this  gives  five  or  six  inches  of  hard,  woody  fiber, 
and  one  inch  of  inferior  tops.  Those  who  understand 
raising  asparagus,  say  it  should  be  cut  with  a  knife  as  often 
at  least  as  every  other  morning,  and  barely  below  the  surface 
of  the  ground  ;  and  some  recommend  snapping  or  breaking 
it  off.  This  would  remove  the  tender  part  only  ;  but  if  left 
too  long,  all  the  stalk  toughens,  except  the  very  tip  end. 
AYhen  quite  young,  green  and  tender,  it  is  sometimes  boiled 
as  greens,  and  served  with  lemon  juice. 

Asparagus  Toast.  =f= 

Cook  the  asparagus  as  in  the  last  recipe;  before  it  is 
quite  done,  slice  some  good  Graham  bread,  rather  stale, 
and  toast  it  evenly.  When  ready,  dip  the  slices  quickly 
into  boiling  water,  and  arrange  them  on  a  platter  ;  then  lift 
out  the  asparagus  and  lay  it  on  the  toast.  Thicken  the 
water  in  which  it  boiled  with  a  little  cream  and  flour,  heat 
almost  to  boiling,  and  pour  it  over.  Or,  if  preferred,  you 
may  omit  the  thickening,  lay  the  asparagus  on  the  toast,  and 
moisten  with  the  liquor  left  in  the  pot. 


186  health  in  the  household.  [part  h. 

Stewed  Cabbage.  =§= 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  see  that  there  are  no  insects, 
and  wash  the  head  carefully  ;  if  wilted,  soak  half  an  hour  in 
very  cold  water.  Then  cut  it  in  halves,  and  with  a  sharp, 
thin  knife  slice  it  very  fine,  without  chopping,  and  stew  or 
steam  quickly.  Slow  cooking  spoils  this  vegetable  ;  so  does 
cooking  it  too  long.  If  it  is  to  be  stewed — and  this  is  the  bet- 
ter way — put  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  add  just  enough 
boiling  water  to  cook  it ;  it  should  be  done  in  half  an  hour. 
Boil  as  fast  as  possible,  keeping  the  kettle  covered ;  the 
moment  it  is  tender  lift  from  the  fire,  and  dish  into  an  open 
tureen ;  the  water  should  be  about  all  evaporated.  Let  it 
stand  uncovered  till  lukewarm,  and  then  send  to  the  table. 
Cooked  in  this  way  the  cabbage  is  white,  crisp  and  sweet ; 
of  course  it  is  delicious. 

If  preferred,  you  may  trim  and  wash,  cut  in  quarters,  and 
then  steam  or  boil  as  before. 

Caulifl  ower.  =|= 

Remove  the  green  leaves,  and  clip  off  the  stalks  an  inch 
or  two  below  the  flowers  ;  part  the  latter  to  see  that  no  in- 
sects are  hidden  among  them,  wash  well,  and  if  not  directly 
from  the  garden  soak  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Then 
drop  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  the  same  as  cabbage, 
taking  it  from  the  fire  the  moment  it  is  thoroughly  tender  ; 
it  will  be  done  in  about  thirty  minutes.  Stew  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  ;  there  should  be  very  little  water  left  when  it  is  set 
off. 

If  you  buy  in  the  market,  select  the  heads  that  are  pure 
white  ;  those  that  are  tinged  with  yellow  or  brown,  are  stale. 

Spinach,  etc.=J= 

Spinach,  cabbage  sprouts,  and  mustard  leaves,  are  good 
for  greens ;  and  turnip  tops,  young  beet  tops,  dandelions, 


PaRT  II.]  VEGETABLES.  187 

leaves  of  narrow  dock,  etc.,  will  do  to  mix  with  the  others. 
It  will  take  a  peck,  for  a  family  of  five  or  six  persons.  Look 
over  every  leaf  carefully,  to  avoid  worms  or  insects,  and 
wash  very  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  lifting  the  leaves 
out  each  time  with  the  hands,  to  get  rid  of  sediment.  Boil 
in  plenty  of  water  till  quite  tender — young  spinach  will 
cook  in  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes — and  when  done, 
take  out  the  greens  with  two  forks  placed  side  by  side  ; 
this  leaves  any  sand  or  grit  behind.  Then  drain,  cool  to 
lukewarm,  and  cut  fine  with  a  knife  before  sending  to  the 
table.  Serve  with  lemon  juice — or  pass  the  lemons,  cut  in 
quarters. 

Boiled  Beets.  =|= 

Select  beets  of  nearly  uniform  size,  and  twist  off  the  tops; 
if  young,  you  may  leave  on  an  inch  or  two  of  the  stems  ;  then 
wash  well,  taking  care  not  to  cut  or  break  the  skins  or  rootlets, 
lest  the  juices  should  escape.  Drop  into  boiling  water,  and 
cook  till  very  tender  ;  you  may  allow  from  one  to  two  hours,  or 
longer,  according  to  size  and  age.  Prick  as  little  as  possi- 
ble, as  it  wastes  the  sweetness  ;  and  boil  in  about  as  much 
water  as  will  cook  them.  When  soft,  remove  the  lid,  and 
let  the  water  that  remains  evaporate  ;  then  lift  out  the  beets, 
and  when  nearly  cold,  slip  off  the  skins.  Slice  thin,  and 
serve  with  lemon  juice  ;  dilute  the  juice  by  adding  half 
water,  and  pour  it  over  after  they  are  sliced  and  cold ;  do 
this  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  sending  to  the  table. 
Prepared  in  this  way,  they  are  excellent.  If  young,  sweet 
and  tender,  some  like  them  without  a  dressing. 

Baked  Beets. 

Prepare  as  for  boiling,  and  bake  till  quite  tender.  If  of 
good  size,  it  will  require  three  or  four  hours  ;  when  done, 
drop  into  cold  water,  and  slip  off  the  skins.     Slice  after  the 


188  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

beets  are  cold,  and  serve  with  diluted  lemon  juice,  as  in  the 
preceding  recipe. 

String  Beans.  =J= 

Select  only  the  tender  varieties,  and  see  that  they  are 
fresh  from  the  garden.  If  recently  gathered,  the  stems  will 
not  be  shriveled.  String  the  beans  carefully,  and  snap  into 
short  pieces ;  then  wash  well,  drop  into  boiling  water,  and 
stew  till  very  tender  in  as  little  water  as  will  cook  them. 
If  bought  in  the  city  market,  it  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half 
or  two  hours  ;  and  the  wax  beans  need  half  an  hour  longer; 
the  water  should  be  about  all  evaporated,  at  the  last.  New 
potatoes,  dropped  in  half  an  hour  before  finishing,  improve 
their  flavor  ;  and  a  little  sweet  cream  thickened  with  a  trifle 
of  flour,  and  stirred  in  just  before  you  lift  them  from  the 
fire,  is  considered  a  further  improvement.  When  done, 
turn  into  an  open  tureen,  and  let  them  cool  a  little  before 
serving. 

Fresh  Garden  Beans.=|= 

Shell  them  from  the  pods,  drop  into  boiling  water,  and 
stew  till  tender,  having  thern  rather  juicy  when  done  ;  they 
ought  to  cook  in  about  an  hour.  If  seasoning  is  required, 
a  little  cream  thickened  with  flour  maybe  stirred  in;  cover, 
and  heat  through,  then  dish,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Lima  Beans.  =J= 

Fresh  Lima  beans  are  cooked  as  in  the  preceding  recipe. 
Dried  Limas  should  be  dropped  into  boiling  water,  and 
parboiled  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ;  then  pour  off  the 
water,  add  more  boiling  hot,  and  cook  till  tender,  but  not 
till  they  fall  to  pieces  ;  it  will  require  from  two  to  three 
hours,  according  to  age.  A  little  cream  and  flour,  stirred 
in  a  minute  before  lifting  from  the  fire,  is  the  only  dressing 
admissible  ;  and  they  are  good  without  any.  See  that  the 
water  is  about  all  evaporated,  before  adding  the  thickening. 


part  ii.]  vegetables.  189 

Boiled  Dried  Beans.  =§= 

Look  the  beans  over  carefully,  throwing  out  the  faulty 
ones,  and  wash  in  two  waters,  rubbing  them  well  between 
the  fingers ;  then  start  in  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  soft. 
Allow  from  two  to  three  hours,  or  longer,  according  to  age 
and  variety  ;  they  should  not  be  cooked  to  pieces.  If  more 
water  is  needed,  add  it  boiling  hot ;  only  a  little  should  re- 
main when  they  are  done.  Never  soak  beans  ;  it  makes  the 
skins  slip  off  whole,  and  they  are  very  indigestible. 

White  beans,  unless  they  are  quite  old,  should  not  be 
parboiled  ;  the  speckled  cranberry  and  other  colored  beans, 
which  are  rather  strong  in  flavor,  are  best  parboiled  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes — not  longer.  Then  pour  the  water  off, 
and  add  more,  boiling  hot ;  cook  till  perfectly  tender,  but 
not  till  they  are  broken  ;  allow  water  enough  to  make  them 
a  little  moist,  when  done.     No  seasoning  is  needed. 

Baked  Beans.  =f= 

Prepare  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  then  boil  till  very  soft 
and  half  broken  to  pieces;  for  most  dried  beans,  it  will  require 
all  of  three  hours.  Let  them  be  quite  juicy  when  taken  from 
the  fire  ;  then  turn  into  a  deep  dish,  cover,  and  bake  rather 
slowly  two  to  three  hours,  or  until  they  are  of  a  rich  brown 
color.     Do  not  scorch  them  in  finishing. 

Baked  Beans. 

Prepare  as  before,  and  boil  till  quite  tender,  but  not  till 
the  beans  are  broken  ;  the  water  should  be  nearly  all  evap- 
orated. Then  mash  fine  with  a  potato  masher,  put  into  a 
shallow  pan,  and  smooth  off  the  top  with  a  knife.  Set  them 
into  a  hot  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour,  or  until  nicely 
browned.  Cold  beans  are  good,  mashed  and  baked  in  the 
same  way. 


190  health  in  the  household.  [part  ii. 

Steamed  Dried  Beans. 

Beans  may  be  put  into  a  closed  steamer,  cooked  till  ten- 
der, and  then  served ;  or  after  steaming  you  may  bake,  as 
in  the  preceding  recipe. 

Stewed  Dried  Beans. 

Look  over  and  wash  white  beans,  put  into  cold  water,  and 
let  them  come  almost  to  a  boil.  Then  place  where  they  wall 
simmer  without  boiling,  and  continue  the  process  till  quite 
tender  ;  allow  just  enough  water  to  make  them  a  little  juicy 
when  done.  They  must  not  bubble  once  while  cooking  ;  it 
will  take  from  two  to  three  hours,  according  to  age  and 
variety. 

Green  Corn. 

Green  corn,  though  usually  ranked  among  vegetables,  is, 
strictly  speaking,  a  grain  in  the  immature  state  ;  and  like 
the  other  grains,  it  may  be  eaten  with  either  fruits  or  vege- 
tables. The  only  thing  about  it  that  interferes  with  diges- 
tion, is  the  hull,  which  with  a  little  care  may  practically  be 
gotten  rid  of. 

Boiled  Green  Corn.=j= 

The  best  corn  for  table  use,  is  the  evergreen  ;  that  knovm 
as  "  Stowell's,"  is  a  good  variety.  If  you  can  not  get  the 
evergreen,  the  white  flint  is  good.  Select  ears  that  are  well 
fined,  but  young  and  tender ;  if  the  right  age,  the  milk 
should  spurt  out  in  a  jet  when  the  grain  is  pierced 
with  the  finger  nail.  Green  corn  should,  if  possible,  be 
cooked  and  eaten  the  day  it  is  gathered,  as  it  loses  its 
sweetness  in  a  few  hours.  Remove  the  husks  and 
silk — or  a  better  way  is  said  to  be,  to  tear  off  all 
but  the  inner  husks,  turn  these  back,  and  pick  off  the  silk  ; 
then  pull  them  over  the  ear  again,  tying  with  a  thread  at 
the  top.     Start  in  boiling  water— not  too  much,  as  it  wastes 


PART  II.]  VEGETABLES.  191 

tlie  sweetness — and  boil  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  min- 
utes. When  done,  drop  the  ears  into  a  basin  of  cold  water; 
this  makes  the  hulls  tender  and  the  corn  white  ;  in  two  or 
three  minutes  lift  them  out,  lay  in  a  tureen,  cover,  and  send 
to  the  table.  Before  eating,  split  the  rows  with  a  sharp 
knife,  cutting  only  the  surface  of  the  grains  ;  this  is  done  by 
drawing  the  knife  through  each  row  of  corn  lengthwise,  be- 
ginning at  the  larger  end  of  the  ear.  Splitting  the  grains, 
allows  the  kernels  to  escape  from  the  hulls,  leaving  the 
latter  on  the  cob. 

If  preferred,  you  may  split  the  grains  and  scrape  out 
with  a  knife,  before  eating. 


Stewed  Green  Corn.=§= 

Select  corn  that  is  young  enough  to  scrape  easily  from 
the  cob  ;  after  splitting  the  grains  with  a  sharp  knife  and 
scraping  out  the  pulp,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  or  porcelain 
kettle,  add  a  little  boiling  water,  and  set  it  over  the  fire 
where  it  will  cook  rapidly.  Stir  constantly  to  keep  it  from 
sticking,  and  stew  ten  minutes  or  until  dene.  No  seasoning 
is  needed. 

Canned   Corn. 

Select  the  best  brands  ;  the  "  Oneida  Community," 
Oneida,  N.  Y.,  is  a  good  one  ;  and  so  is  the  "  Loomis, 
Allen  &  Co.,"  Cicero,  N.  Y.  The  corn  put  up  by  these  es- 
tablishments is  best  evergreen  ;  it  is  as  fresh,  white  and 
luscious,  as  if  just  from  the  field.  To  prepare  it  for  the 
table,  put  it  into  a  clean  porcelain  kettle,  cover  closely  to 
prevent  its  juices  from  evaporating,  and  place  over  a  moder- 
ate fire  until  it  is  thoroughly  heated  through  (it  must  not 
ooil),  then  dish,  and  serve.  It  is  good  enough  without  the 
addition  of  milk  or  cream. 


192  health  in  the  household.       [part  ii. 

Corn  and  Tomatoes.=J= 

Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  and  cook  slowly  half  an  hour. 
Then  prepare  the  corn  as  follows,  having  it  young  and  ten- 
der :  With  a  thin,  sharp  knife  shave  off  the  tip  ends  of  the 
grains,  and  throw  them  away.  Then  slice  the  rest  very 
thin,  until  most  of  the  corn  (say  three-fourths  of  it)  is  re- 
moved from  the  cob,  and  with  a  dull  knife  scrape  out  the 
remainder.  Put  it  in  with  the  cooked  tomatoes,  and  stew 
rather  slowly  half  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
sticking  ;  then  dish. 

Another  way  is  to  take  equal  quantities  of  sliced  tomatoes 
and  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and  stew  them  together  thirty 
to  forty  minutes  ;  the  heat  must  be  moderate. 

SUCC0TASH.=|= 

Boil  white  beans — Limas  are  best — until  they  are  soft,  but 
not  broken  ;  have  water  enough  when  done  to  make  them 
rather  juicy.  Select  good  sweet  corn,  young  and  tender,  cut 
it  from  the  cob,  not  too  closely,  and  scrape  out  what  re- 
mains with  a  dull  knife.  Add  the  corn  to  the  beans  (two 
parts  of  the  former  to  one  of  the  latter),  and  stew  over  a 
moderate  fire  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Stir  occasionally, 
and  see  that  the  mixture  does  not  scorch. 

Another  way  to  prepare  this  dish,  is  to  boil  string  beans 
(the  wax  beans  are  best  for  this  purpose)  until  they  are 
nearly  tender  ;  it  will  take  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then 
add  the  cut  corn,  and  cook  half  an  hour. 

In  making  succotash,  dried  beans  can  be  used,  but  those 
fresh  from  the  garden  are  better  ;  and  in  the  absence  of 
fresh  green  corn,  canned  corn  may  be  substituted.  Cook 
this  very  little,  say  ten  minutes,  after  adding  it  to  the  beans 


part  h.]  vegetables.  193 

Roasted  Green  Corn. 

Remove  the  husks  and  silk,  and  lay  the  ears  on  the  grate 
in  a  hot  oven  ;  or  you  may  roast  over  hot  coals,  or  before 
the  fire. 

Stewed  Dried   Corn.=|= 

Soak  in  a  closed  vessel  over  night,  in  water  enough  to 
cover  the  corn.  Cook  in  the  same  water,  simmering  slowly 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ;  it  must  not  T^oil  •  then  dish  for  the 
table. 

Green  Peas.=§= 

Green  peas  lose  their  sweetness  very  soon  after  they  are 
gathered  ;  they  should  if  possible,  be  cooked  the  same  day. 
When  perfectly  fresh,  the  little  stems  are  green  and  un- 
shriveled.  There  is  a  great  difference  of  flavor  in  the 
several  varieties  ;  among  the  early  peas,  the  Champion  of 
England  is  the  very  best ;  among  the  later,  the  Marrowfats 
are  unexcelled. 

Having  selected  the  best  in  the  market,  shell  without 
washing  them,  and  boil  moderately  thirty  to  forty  minutes  ; 
if  young,  thirty  minutes  is  long  enough  ;  have  only  a  little 
more  water  than  enough  to  cook  them.  If  a  dressing- 
is  wanted,  evaporate  most  of  the  water  remaining,  and 
add  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cream  ;  you  may  thicken  this 
if  you  like,  with  a  trifle  of  flour  ;  then  stir  all  together, 
simmer  a  moment,  and  take  the  pot  from  the  fire.  The 
thickened  cream  and  the  concentrated  juice  of  the  peas, 
form  a  rich  and  excellent  gravy.  Some,  however,  prefer 
them  boiled  simply  in  water,  and  eaten  without  further 
dressing  than  the  liquor  that  remains  after  cooking.  Serve 
in  sauce  dishes,  passing  the  teaspoons. 

Dried   Peas. 

If  peas  are  gathered  while  young  and  tender,  and  care- 
fully dried,  they  make  a  good  dish  for  winter.     Boil  the 


194  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

same  as  green  peas,  except  that  they  require  a  much  longer 
time.  They  may  be  served  plain,  or  finished  with  a  dress- 
ing of  cream. 

Split   Peas. 

Prepare  and  cook  the  same  as  dried  beans,  either  by  boil- 
ing or  steaming ;  see  that  they  are  cooked  till  tender,  but 
not  to  pieces.     It  will  take  about  two  hours. 

Or  you  may  stew  them  in  this  way  :  Put  the  peas  into 
cold  water,  and  let  them  come  almost  to  a  boil.  Then  set 
the  pot  back,  where  it  will  gently  simmer  without  boiling  ; 
if  it  bubbles  at  all,  the  fine  flavor  will  escape,  and  the  extra 
labor  be  lost.  As  soon  as  soft,  the  peas  are  done  ;  the  flavor 
is  much  richer  than  when  cooked  in  the  ordinary  way. 

Onions. 

Onions  are  perhaps  questionable,  as  an  article  of  wholesome 
food.  If  eaten,  they  may  be  cooked  as  follows  :  Cut  off  the 
tops  and  rootlets,  remove  the  outer  skins,  and  put  the  onions 
into  a  porcelain  kettle  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover. 
Set  them  over  the  fire,  parboil  fifteen  minutes,  and  pour  off 
the  water  ;  cover  again — this  time  with  boiling — and  par- 
boil fifteen  minutes  longer.  Then  drain  off  the  water,  pour 
in  a  little  more,  boiling  hot,  add  the  same  quantity  of  milk, 
and  cook  slowly  till  tender,  but  not  till  they  fall  to  pieces. 
When  done,  pour  off  the  milk  and  water,  and  either  serve 
without  a  dressing,  or  finish  with  a  little  cream  thickened 
with  white  flour.  Some  varieties  of  onions  need  less  par- 
boiling than  others. 

Lettuce. 

Lettuce,  to  be  good,  must  be  young  and  tender,  and  fresh 
from  the  garden.  Trim  off  the  defective  leaves,  look  it 
over  carefully,  wash  clean,  and  let  it  stand  in  very  cold 
water  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.     Then  send  to  the  table 


PART  II.]  VEGETABLES.  195 

with  fresh  lemon  juice  for  dressing  ;  or,  cut  the  lemons  in 
quarters,  and  pass  them. 

Celery. 

Select  stalks  that  are  young  and  tender,  and  newly  gath- 
ered. Wash  well,  and  let  them  He  in  cold  water  half  an 
hour  ;  then  trim  carefully,  leaving  on  a  few  green  leaves, 
and  send  to  the  table. 

Cucumbers. 

Cucumbers  to  be  fit  for  eating,  must  be  very  young,  and 
fresh  from  the  vines  ;  the  smaller  ones  are  generally  the 
best.  If  bought  in  the  markets,  select  those  that  are  green 
and  white  in  color,  with  no  tinge  of  yellow,  and  see  that 
they  are  firm  to  the  touch  ;  the  others  are  stale.  After 
peeling,  lay  in  very  cold  water  half  an  hour,  to  make  them 
crisp  ;  then  slice  as  thin  as  possible,  and  pour  lemon  juice 
over  them  ;  it  may  be  diluted  slightly  with  water,  if  too 
acid  for  the  taste. 

Served  in  this  way,  fresh  cucumbers  are  quite  harmless 
to  healthy  stomachs. 

Boiled   Chestnuts. 

Look  them  over,  one  at  a  time,  to  see  if  all  are  sound  ; 
then  drop  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  done.  Fresh 
chestnuts  will  boil  sufficiently  in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  ; 
if  older,  they  may  need  a  little  longer  time.  Let  them 
remain  in  the  hot  water  till  wanted  ;  then  remove  the  shells 
with  a  sharp  knife. 

Koasted   Chestnuts. 

Select  carefully,  as  before,  and  cut  a  slit  crosswise  in  the 

shell  of  each,  to  prevent  its  bursting  when  hot.     Put  them 

into  a  pan,  and  place  over  a  charcoal  or  other  fire  ;  shake  or 

stir  them  to  prevent  scorching,  and  remove  as  soon  as  done. 

14 


196  health  in  the  household.  [part  ii. 

Melons. 

Melons,  when  eaten,  should  be  perfectly  fresh.  The  great 
mortality  resulting  from  their  use  in  cities,  is  due,  not  to 
the  melons  per  se,  but  to  their  being  eaten  stale  ;  hence,  the 
imported  article,  as  well  as  those  that  have  been  long  in  the 
market,  should  be  strictly  avoided. 


"Watermelons. 

Watermelons,  to  be  fine,  must  be  of  good  variety  and  well 
grown  ;  they  should  be  neither  underripe  nor  overripe,  and 
should  always  be  fresh. 

Put  on  ice,  if  you  have  it,  several  hours  before  serving, 
to  make  them  crisp  and  cold.  They  should  be  eaten  before 
the  meal,  or  at  the  beginning  of  it ;  and  they  should  never 
be  served  at  the  same  meal  with  fruits. 

Cantaloupes. 

Like  watermelons,  muskmelons,  and  cantaloupes  are  per- 
fectly wholesome  if  eaten  fresh  ;  but  as  found  in  our  city 
markets  they  are  usually  stale,  having  been  pulled  several 
days  ;  eaten  in  this  condition  they  are  a  prolific  cause  of 
cholera  morbus,  and  other  kindred  diseases.  In  selecting, 
notice  whether  the  stems,  if  on,  look  fresh,  and  can  be 
broken  off  easily  ;  if  they  adhere  firmly,  the  melons  are  not 
ripe.  See  also  that  they  (the  cantaloupes)  are  firm  to  the 
touch ;  those  that  yield  to  pressure,  as  if  half  wilted,  are 
stale.  They  should  be  served  at  the  first  of  the  meal,  and 
never  with  fruits. 

Rhubarb.=§= 

Ehubarb  should  always  be  fresh  from  the  garden  ;  other- 
wise, it  is  indigestible  to  weak  stomachs.  After  washing, 
trim  carefully,  and  see  that  there  are  no  worms  left  in  the 
stalks.     Before  stewing,  cut  the  latter  into  inch  lengths,  and 


PART  II.]  FRUITS   AND    FRUIT   JUICES.  197 

allow  about  one  pint  of  water  to  two  quarts  of  prepared 
rhubarb  ;  stew  in  a  porcelain  kettle  twenty  minutes ;  and 
just  before  lifting  from  the  fire,  add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
sugar.  Leave  the  sauce  in  the  kettle  till  cold,  and  then 
pour  into  a  glass  dish — never  into  tin  or  glazed  ware,  as 
this  vegetable  corrodes  it,  and  is  poisoned  by  it. 

This  sauce  may  be  canned  in  glass,  for  winter  use.  Or 
you  may  stew  in  a  little  more  water,  and  strain  through  a 
cheese-cloth  ;  then  heat  the  juice  to  boiling,  and  can  it  for 
a  beverage. 

SOUPS. 

For  remarks  on  soups,  the  best  methods  of  making,  etc., 
the  reader  is  referred  to  Part  III.  In  the  recipes  there  given, 
the  only  unhygienic  ingredient  employed  is  the  diminutive 
soup-bone,  or  bit  of  meat,  which  can  be  omitted  if  desired. 
Soups  are  not  very  well  managed  by  feeble  stomachs  ;  if 
taken  too  often,  they  are  apt  to  cause  indigestion. 

FKUITS  AND  FBUIT  JUICES. 

Nearly  all  fruits  if  perfect,  and  thoroughly  ripe,  are,  in 
their  raw  state,  sweet  enough  to  satisfy  any  unperverted 
taste.  They  are  also  more  palatable  and  more  healthful, 
than  when  cooked  and  sweetened.  The  pear,  the  peach, 
the  cherry,  the  strawberry,  ripe  and  perfect — each  is  richest 
in  flavor  when  unchanged  by  heat,  and  sweetened  only  with 
the  glad  rays  of  the  sun.  The  same  is  true  of  most  other 
f  ruits.  But  so  transient  are  many  kinds,  that  to  have  them  in 
abundance  and  for  any  great  length  of  time,  cooking  becomes 
a  necessity.  This  is  particularly  true  in  localities  where 
fruit  is  scarce,  both  in  variety  and  quantity.  Here,  then,  in 
the  preparing  and  cooking  of  fruits,  is  rare  opportunity  for 
the  finer  touches  of  the  culinary  art  ;  and  that  cook  is  best 
skilled  in  her  profession,  who  can  best  preserve  and  retain 


198  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IL 

those  delicate  flavors  with  which  nature  has  endowed  them. 
The  usual  method,  however,  is  to  drown  everything  in 
sugar  and  syrups,  thus  obliterating  the  individuality  that 
belongs  to  these  delicate  products  of  the  earth. 

In  an  admirable  little  work  on  "Cooking  and  Castle- 
Building,"  written  by  Emma  P.  Ewing,  the  reader  will  find 
the  following  excellent  remarks: 

"  Never  spice  fruits,  lest  you  destroy  their  flavor.  I  always 
detested  nutmeg,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  in  apple  pies.  I 
now  see  the  reason.  Rich  spices  and  delicate  flavored  fruits 
form  an  unsuitable  and  unartistic  combination."  "The 
fine,  delicate  flavor  of  fruits  should  be  preserved  as  perfect 
as  possible;  and  for  this  reason  they  should  never  be  cooked 
in  tin,  or  stirred  with  a  metal  spoon  less  pure  than  silver. 
A  wooden  spoon  or  spatula  is  the  best  for  the  purpose." 
"  If  it  is  desirable  to  add  to  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  you  are 
cooking,  add  the  flavor  of  another  fruit.  For  instance} 
flavor  apples  with  either  pine-apple,  strawberry,  quince, 
lemon  or  orange.  Even  the  perfume  of  flowers,  like  rose- 
water,  may  add  to  the  deliciousness  of  a  dish  of  fruit.  But 
to  bury  roses  in  a  cake,  seems  as  inappropriate  and  unnat- 
ural as  to  deaden  fruit  with  spices." 

"  In  cooking  fruits  of  all  sorts,  whether  for  present  or 
future  use,  aim  to  preserve  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  as  far  as 
possible;  and  to  this  end,  avoid  all  contact  with  tin  or  base 
metal,  and  all  needless  exposure  to  the  air.  Cook  as  soon 
as  possible,  after  the  fruit  is  in  proper  condition.  Cook  in 
small  quantities.  Simmer  gently,  instead  of  boiling  rapidly. 
The  flavor  of  some  fruits  is  preserved  better  by  canning 
them  without  sugar.  Peaches  and  blackberries  are  finer 
flavored  when  canned  without  sugar.  At  the  time  of  open- 
ing and  serving,  sugar  can  be  added  if  desired." 

In  the  selection  of  fruits,  the  first  thing  is  to  try  to  secure 
the  best;  those  that  are  the  nearest  perfect,  and  of  the 
choicest  varieties.     This   done,   they   should   be   carefully 


PART  II.]  FRUITS   AND    FRUIT    JUICES.  199 

sorted,  taking  out  the  bruised  and  imperfect  ones  for  pres- 
ent use;  such  as  are  not  to  be  cooked  immediately,  should 
be  put  in  the  coolest  place  possible.  Fruit  of  every  de- 
scription should  be  handled  with  great  care,  as  any  bruise 
leads  to  rapid  decay. 

That  intended  for  cooking,  ought  not  to  be  overripe; 
but  if  it  is  so  already,  it  should  be  used  as  soon  as  possible, 
cooking  rather  quickly  and  not  too  long.  Unripe  fruits,  on 
the  contrary,  are  greatly  improved  by  cooking  slowly,  and 
for  a  longer  time;  this  changes  their  starchy  matter  to 
saccharine,  and  makes  them  more  palatable  by  practically 
ripening  them. 

Care  should  be  taken  in  cooking  fruit  not  to  break  up  its 
organic  structure,  more  than  is  actually  unavoidable;  it 
looks  better  to  be  whole,  and  it  is  better;  the  juices  are 
clearer,  and  the  flavors  more  fully  retained.  The  same  is 
time  of  canned  fruits;  the  nearer  whole  they  are,  the  better. 

Dried  fruits,  having  been  in  reality  once  cooked  already, 
should  pass  through  the  next  heating  process  pretty  rapidly. 
Take,  for  example,  dried  apples,  or  dried  peaches;  if 
dropped  into  boiling  water  and  cooked  rather  quickly,  care 
being  taken  to  remove  them  from  the  fire  the  moment  they 
are  soft,  they  will  be  brighter  in  color  and  much  finer  in 
flavor,  than  if  allowed  to  simmer  slowly,  and  fall  into  a 
dark,  shapeless  mass;  the  juice  should  be  mild,  but  rich  in 
taste,  and  of  a  light  amber  color. 

No  fruits,  whether  cooked  or  raw,  should  be  kept  where 
the  air  is  impure,  as  they  will  absorb  the  surrounding 
gases,  and  thus  be  rendered  poisonous.  We  know  how  un- 
pleasant water  tastes  after  it  is  allowed  to  stand  open  for 
hours  in  the  "  living  room,"  where  by  breathing,  persons 
are  constantly  throwing  off  carbonic  acid  from  the  lungs, 
and  expelling  it  from  their  bodies.  The  cook  should  there- 
fore be  instructed  to  remove  the  stewed  fruits  and  any 
other  fluid  preparations,  from  the  close  kitchen  into  a  cool, 


200  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  II. 

clean  place,  where  they  can  be  covered,  if  necessary,  as 
soon  as  cold. 

In  stewing  fruits,  do  not  allow  the  steam  off  old  tin  lids 
to  collect  and  run  down  into  the  kettle,  discoloring  and 
poisoning  its  contents  with  rust.  Lids  of  granitized  iron 
are  light,  durable,  and  free  from  oxidation.  Tin  lids,  if 
used,  should  be  kept  bright  and  clean;  and  when  the  kettle 
boils  so  slowly  as  to  cause  the  moisture  to  adhere,  the  cover 
should  be  removed.  In  cooking  fruits  that  have  a  decided 
color,  as  berries,  cherries,  currants,  grapes  or  plums,  observe 
two  rules :  first,  stew  them  slowly;  fast  boiling  darkens  the 
fruit,  and  injures  the  flavor;  second,  keep  them  from  con- 
tact with  the  baser  metals,  as  tin,  iron,  brass,  lead,  copper, 
etc.  Cook  in  kettles  that  are  porcelain-lined,  or  made  of 
granitized  iron;  and  use  silver  spoons  or  wooden  paddles 
for  stirring.  If  canned  for  winter  use,  put  these  fruits  into 
glass  jars;  tin  not  only  discolors,  it  poisons  them.  In  strain- 
ing fruit  juices  a  Clean  cloth  is  best,  as  it  does  not  discolor; 
though  an  earthen  colander,  if  you  can  get  it,  does  very 
well. 

In  selecting  small  fruits,  care  must  be  taken  that  they 
are  newly  gathered,  else  they  will  lose  their  fine  flavors, 
and  also  their  healthful  qualities.  When  they  are  already 
beginning  to  decay,  there  is  no  alternative  but  to  cook 
them — or  throw  them  away.  If  not  too  far  gone,  the  heat 
will  expel  most  of  the  escaping  gases,  and  render  the  fruit 
less  hurtful,  and  less  objectionable  to  the  palate;  but  no 
amount  of  cooking  can  make  it  as  good  as  sound  fruit.  A 
great  deal  of  that  sold  in  our  city  markets,  is  in  this  half 
stale  condition — too  long  off  the  trees  and  vines.  On  the 
other  hand,  much  of  it  has  been  gathered  and  shipped  be- 
fore it  was  ripe;  and  it  is  so  sour  and  unpalatable  when  it 
comes  to  us,  that  cooking  and  even  sweetening  seems  a  ne- 
cessity, before  it  can  be  brought  to  our  tables.  Were  there 
at  all  times  an  ample  supply  of  good  fruits,  neither  over- 


PART  II.]  FRUITS    AND   FRUIT   JUICES.  201 

ripe  nor  underripe,  but  fine  in  quality  and  choice  in 
variety,  we  might  reject  the  inferior  grades,  and  eat  the 
others  without  even  a  "  grain "  of  sugar.  Such,  however, 
is  not  now  the  case,  whatever  it  may  be  in  the  future. 

In  the  following  recipes,  it  will  be  observed  that  fruits 
with  mild  acids,  as  apples,  peaches,  pears  and  grapes,  are 
cooked  with  no  sugar  whatever;  and  that  even  the  tart  va- 
rieties are  prepared  with  very  little.  And  yet,  so  fine  and 
palatable  are  they,  that  persons  who  have  eaten  them  at 
our  table,  can  scarcely  believe  that  these  fruits  have  little 
or  no  sweetening  in  them,  except  their  own  rich  juices. 
One  great  advantage  in  dispensing  with  sugar,  is  that  we 
are  not  poisoned  with  the  many  deleterious  articles  now 
used  to  adulterate  it.  Moreover,  the  liver  is  not  clogged 
with  that  constipating,  ferment-producing  substance  (sugar), 
which  at  best,  is  but  a  proximate  principle  of  food,  a  dis- 
turber of  good  digestion,  and  like  its  twin  sisters,  oil  and 
starch,  incapable  of  sustaining  animal  life. 

Some  hygienists,  as  elsewhere  stated,  have  tried  mixing 
the  sweet  and  sour  fruits  together,  making  the  one  sweeten 
the  other.  It  has  been  objected  that  this  plan,  theoretically 
good,  has  some  drawbacks  in  practice.  In  the  first  place, 
the  sweet  fruits  (dates,  raisins,  figs,  etc.)  are  more  expen- 
sive than  sugar.  In  the  next  place,  it  is  difficult  to  get  them 
fresh;  and  when  stale,  they  are  covered  over  with  crystals 
of  grape  sugar,  which  is,  perhaps,  not  more  wholesome  than 
the  common  article  made  from  cane.  And  lastly,  it  is  said 
that  the  flavor  of  fruits  prepared  with  dates,  etc.,  is  not  as 
palatable  as  when  sweetened  in  the  usual  way.  It  must 
be  admitted,  however,  that  the  method  referred  to,  has,  to 
say  the  least,  fewer  adulterations  to  contend  with. 

As  stated  in  the  introductory  chapters  in  this  work,  some 
raw  fruits,  as  apples  and  grapes,  are  best  eaten  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  meal,  and  at  breakfast,  rather  than  supper; 
and  that  for  persons  of  feeble  digestion,  and  indeed  for 


202  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

every  one,  it  is  better,  as  a  rule,  not  to  eat  too  many  varieties 
of  fruit  at  a  given  meal,  but  to  make  the  changes  from 
one  meal  to  another.  In  this  way  it  digests  better,  and 
one  is  not  so  likely  to  tire  of  it.  In  cool  or  wet  weather, 
less  fruits  and  less  juicy  vegetables  are  needed,  than  when 
it  is  dry  and  warm.  Something  more  solid  and  hearty, 
as  baked  beans,  parsnips,  baked  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes, 
corn  bread,  etc.,  is  relished;  but  when  the  hot,  sultry  days 
return,  we  call  again  for  the  cooling  fruits  and  their  juices. 
The  following  Table  of  Proportions  is  for  stewed  or 
canned  fruits,  and  fruit  juices;  it  gives  the  proportion  of 
water  and  sugar  by  measure,  for  the  different  kinds  : 

Prepared  Fruit. 

Strawberries 5  qts 

Red  currants 5  " 

Red  raspberries . . .  5  " 

Black  raspberries 5  " 

Raspberries  and  currants 5  " 

Blackberries 5  " 

Gooseberries 6  " 

u            (for  pies) 6  " 

May  cherries 5  " 

Black  morello  cherries 5  " 

Seeded  morello  (for  pies) 5  " 

Grapes 6  u 

Cranberries 2  " 

Peaches 6  " 

Pears 7  M 

Damson  plums 5  " 

Green  or  blue  gage 6  " 

Dried  Fruit. 

Apples  (kiln  dried) 1  qt 

Peeled  peaches  (kiln  dried)   .  1  " 

Unpeeled    "  "        "  1  l' 

Cherries  (tart) 1  " 

Plums  (very  tart) 1  " 


Water. 

Sugar. 

..lqt.. 

.fcup(lcupipt) 

.  .  3  qts . 

.1   " 

..2    "    . 

2       « 
•3 

.  .  5  pts . 

1     it 

2 

..5    "   . 

1        i' 

..3   "   . 

3       « 

..2  qts. 

2  cups. 

.  .3  pts. 

2     " 

.  .3    "   . 

1  cup. 

..2  qts. 

1    " 

..2   "   . 

2  cups  (heaping). 

..2   "   . 

(no  sugar). 

. . 3  pts . 

1  cup. 

.  .  1  qt  . 

(no  sugar). 

.  .1  "    . 

a          t< 

. .  5  pts . 

2  cups. 

..3  "  . 

1  cup. 

. .  2  qts . 

(no  sugar). 

..2   "   . 

it           (( 

. .  3  pts . 

U               <t 

..3    "   . 

u          a 

..3   "   . 

icup. 

PART  II.]  FRUITS   AND    FRUIT    JUICES.  203 


Dried  Fruit. 
Prunes  (or  prunes  and  plums)  . 

Pears  (peeled  and  cut) 

Sweet  currants 

Raisins 

1  qt 
1  " 
1  " 

1   u 

Water. 

.  3  pts . 
.  . 2  qts . 
.  .  5  pts . 
.  .5   "   . 

Sugar. 
(no  sugar) 

a          u 
it          « 
U          It 

Time  of  Cooking. 
In  cooking  fruits,  no  very  definite  rules  can  be  given  as 
to  time;  this  depends  very  much  on  the  ripeness,  variety, 
quality,  etc.  Making  allowance  for  these,  the  table  given 
below' will  be  found  proximately  correct.  The  heat  must  be 
moderate;  hard  boiling  destroys  the  fine  flavor  of  all  fruits, 
and  especially  of  those  known  as  "  small  fruits." 

All  kind  of  berries  (except  cranberries) 5  minutes. 

Red  or  white  currants 5 

Grapes  and  cherries 5 

Plums 10 

Ripe  peaches  (freestones) 3  to  5  " 

Apples  and  pears — see  recipes. 

Dried  apples  (kiln  dried) 30  " 

pears       "        "      30  to  50  " 

peaches"        "     peeled 30  to  50  " 

"         "        "     unpeeled 25  to  30  " 

cherries 10  to  15  " 

44       plums  and  prunes 25  to  30  " 

Sweet  currants 35  " 

Raisins 40  to  50  " 

Dried  apricots (simmer  slowly;              2  hours. 

The  following  recipes  are  intended  as  a  guide  in  prepar- 
ing fruits,  either  for  canning  or  sauce;  though  for  canning, 
special  directions  will  hereafter  be  given.  Tastes  may  differ, 
both  as  to  the  amount  of  water  that  should  be  used,  and 
(where  it  is  employed)  the  quantity  of  sugar  required. 
The  recipes  here  given  are  the  ones  the  writer  has  used  for 
years;  and  if  the  testimony  of  many  friends  is  to  be  relied 
on,  they  have  given  good  satisfaction.  In  some  localities, 
where  there  is  less  heat  and  sunshine  than  in  other  places, 
the  fruits  (as  raspberries,  cherries,  etc.)  are  more  juicy, 


204  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  H. 

and  would  therefore  require  less  water,  in  stewing  or  can- 
ning. 

Baked  Apples.  =}= 

Select  smooth,  fair  apples  of  nearly  uniform  size,  and 
entirely  free  from  worms;  wash  carefully,  and  with  a  sharp- 
pointed  knife  remove  the  blossom  ends,  and  any  little  blem- 
ishes. If  the  skins  are  covered  with  mouldy,  dark-colored 
patches,  rub  the  apples  vigorously  with  a  very  rough  cloth; 
then  place  them,  stems  downward  and  one  layer  deep,  in  an 
earthen  pie-pan,  or  in  a  clean  dish  of  granitized  iron.  If 
they  are  tart,  crowd  them  closely  together;  if  sweet,  space 
a  trifle  apart.  Put  a  cup  of  cold  water  in  the  pan,  set  it  in 
an  oven  hot  enough  to  bake  without  scorching,  and  cover 
if  necessary;  if  the  apples  bake  slower  at  the  bottom,  turn 
them.  Do  not  let  them  get  dry,  as  it  will  burn  up  the  juice. 
Bake  rather  slowly,  adding  a  little  boiling  water  as  it  is 
needed,  until  they  are  fully  done  to  the  core;  then  remove 
from  the  oven,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place ;  there  should 
be  a  good  cupful  of  juice  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  When 
half  cold  lift  into  a  fruit-dish,  pour  the  juice  over,  and  put 
on  the  cover.  Rich  apples  baked  in  this  way,  are  "  fit  for  a 
king." 

Baked  Apples.  4= 

Prepare  as  before,  and  into  a  deep  earthen  dish  contain- 
ing a  cup  of  cold  water,  put  two  or  three  layers  of  rather 
tart  apples,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Turn  them  up 
from  the  bottom  as  they  cook,  and  add  a  little  boiling  water 
from  time  to  time;  there  must  be  plenty  of  juice  when 
done.  As  soon  as  all  are  thoroughly  soft,  remove  from  the 
oven  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  within  a  few  hours  after 
baking. 

Baked  Sweet  Apples.  =4= 

Select  apples  that  are  smooth  and  sound,  and  not  too 
large.     Wash  well,  remove  the  blossom  ends,  and  put  them 


PART  II.]  FRUITS   AND    FRUIT   JUICES.  205 

in  an  earthen  or  granitized  iron  pan;  lay  them  stems  down- 
ward, one  layer  deep,  and  not  too  close  together.  Pour  in 
a  little  boiling  water,  and  bake  slowly  two  or  three  hours, 
or  until  quite  soft.  Cover  the  tops  if  they  incline  to  scorch; 
add  a  trifle  of  boiling  water  as  it  is  needed,  and  turn  them 
over  once  or  twice.  There  should  be  enough  syrup  at  the 
last  to  make  them  juicy;  and  the  apples  should  be  a  rich 
brown  color.  If  too  dry  when  taken  from  the  oven,  pour 
in  half  a  cup  of  water,  boiling  hot;  when  cold  enough  lay 
them  in  a  glass  dish,  and  pour  the  syrup  over. 

Baked   Apples. — (Pared.)=%= 

Pare  and  wash  the  apples,  removing  with  a  pen-knife,  the 
blossom,  stem  and  core;  they  should  be  sweet  enough  to 
hold  together  nicely,  when  cooked.  Put  them  into  an 
earthen  pan,  one  layer  deep,  and  spaced  a  trifle  apart;  pour 
in  a  little  cold  water  to  start  with,  and  bake  in  an  oven  hot 
enough  to  brown  slightly,  but  not  to  burn  or  blister.  Turn 
once  if  necessary,  and  add  a  very  little  boning  water  from 
time  to  time;  cover,  if  the  apples  are  inclined  to  brown  too 
much  on  top.  When  thoroughly  soft  remove  from  the 
oven;  and  when  cool  lift  into  a  fruit-dish,  pouring  the  juice 
over  them. 

Stewed  Apples.  4= 

Select  apples  not  too  ripe,  and  pare  them,  removing  any 
blemishes;  divide  each  in  halves,  cutting  through  the  stem 
and  blossom  ;  then  cut  each  half  into  three  pieces  ;  this 
enables  the  cook  to  take  out  all  the  core  easily,  and  without 
waste.  When  all  are  prepared  wash  hastily,  to  remove  the 
rust  which  a  steel  knife  always  imparts;  put  them  in  a  por-. 
celain  kettle,  add  cold  water  to  make  them  moderately  juicy, 
and  cook  till  soft.  If  they  are  very  tart,  stew  quickly ; 
and  the  moment  they  are  ready  to  fall  to  pieces  stir  thor- 
oughly, and  lift  from  the  fire;  or  if  there  are  still  some 


206  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  II. 

bits  not  done,  cook  five  minutes  longer.  But  if  the  apples, 
are  sweet,  or  sub-acid,  you  must  cook  slowly,  and  not  stir  ; 
then  the  pieces  will  hold  together,  each  unbroken,  and 
swimming  in  the  clear  juice.  Set  them  away  in  the  ket- 
tle, leaving  the  lid  off  till  cold;  then  cover,  to  keep  out  flies 
or  insects;  or  put  them  into  the  fruit-dish,  ready  for  the 
table. 

Unripe  apples  if  very  tart,  are  best  stewed  in  about  water 
enough  to  cook  them;  stir  when  done;  and  while  they  are 
still  hot,  sweeten  with  a  little  brown  sugar — maple,  if  you 
have  it. 

Stewed  Apples. — (  Choice.  )=%= 

Take  apples  of  a  fine  sub-acid  flavor,  and  not  very  ripe; 
bright,  rosy  jennetings  are  excellent;  prepare  as  in  the  pre- 
ceding recipe,  and  start  in  cold  water,  allowing  enough  to 
make  them  rather  juicy.  If  necessary,  skim  when  they 
begin  to  boil,  and  set  them  back  where  they  will  gently  sim- 
mer ;  if  the  cover  is  tin,  lift  it  off  as  soon  as  the  sauce  is 
thoroughly  heated  through;  if  of  granitized  iron,  leave  it 
on.  Let  the  apples  cook  slowly  without  stirring,  from  one 
to  two  hours ;  they  must  not  boil ;  the  top  pieces  may 
require  pushing  down  once  or  twice,  to  make  them  cook 
evenly.  Set  them  off  when  done,  and  leave  in  the  kettle  to 
cool.  The  pieces  should  all  be  whole,  the  juice  a  clear 
amber  color,  or  a  delicate  pink  (according  to  the  color  of 
the  apples),  and  of  very  fine  flavor.  In  lifting  into  the  dish, 
be  careful  not  to  break  the  fruit. 

If  the  apples  are  fair  and  rosy,  you  may  prepare  as  be- 
fore, except  to  leave  on  the  skins;  then  cook  in  the  way  just 
described.  The  skins  impart  a  rich  flavor  and  color,  both 
to  the  fruit  and  juice;  you  may  put  in  some  of  the  seeds 
for  flavoring,  if  you  like. 


PART  II.]  FEUITS    AND    FRUIT    JUICES.  207 

Stewed  Sweet  Apples.  4= 

Select  sweet  apples,  all  perfect,  and  a  little  underripe  ; 
pare  them  nicely,  trimming  out  the  blossom  ends,  but  leav- 
ing in  the  stems.  Wash,  to  remove  knife-rust,  and  put 
them  into  a  fruit-kettle,  adding  enough  cold  wrater  to  about 
half  cover  them.  Set  the  kettle  over  a  moderate  fire,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  skim ;  cook  slowiy  for  at  least  an  hour, 
removing  the  lid,  if  tin.  Do  not  stir  or  break  the  apples. 
When  done  take  from  the  fire,  and  set  away  till  perfectly 
cold;  then  lift  carefully  into  the  fruit-dish,  and  serve  whole, 
with  their  own  luscious  juices. 

Stewed  Apples. — (  Unpared.) 

Pick  out  smooth  apples  with  clear  skins;  bright,  rosy  ones 
are  best.  Wipe  them  well  and  cut  in  halves,  removing  the 
stems  and  blossom  ends,  and  taking  out  the  cores,  or  any 
imperfect  spots.  After  washing,  put  them  into  a  fruit- 
kettle  (by  a  fruit-kettle  is  meant  either  the  porcelain-lined, 
or  one  of  granitized  iron  ware — never  brass,  copper  or  tin), 
about  half  cover  with  cold  water,  put  on  the  lid,  and  stew 
slowly  without  stirring,  till  the  apples  are  soft.  Then  take 
from  the  fire,  uncover,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place;  when 
cold,  lift  carefully  into  a  dish,  keeping  the  fruit  as  whole  as 
possible. 

Steamed  Apples. 

Prepare  as  for  baking,  leaving  the  skins  on,  and  steam 
two  or  three  hours,  or  until  soft. 

Roasted  Apples.  =§= 

Take  fine  winter  apples,  tart  or  sub-acid,  wipe  each  clean, 
and  set  them  on  the  sliding  grate  in  a  hot  oven.  As  soon 
as  they  are  soft  to  the  core,  take  out,  cool  and  eat ;  they 
will  cook  in  a  few  minutes,  and  you  will  find  them  delicious. 


208  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  II. 

Another  way  is  to  roast  before  a  hot  fire,  turning  the  apples 
frequently  till  done. 

Quinces. 

Quinces  may  be  pared  and  stewed  the  same  as  apples. 
They  are  rather  tart  unless  sweetened,  or  cooked  with  fruits 
of  a  milder  acid. 

Apples  and  Quinces.=§= 

Take  sweet  apples  and  quinces  in  equal  quantities — or 
two  parts  apples  to  one  of  quince  ;  wash  and  pare  them, 
cut  into  quarters,  sixths  or  eighths,  according  to  the  size  of 
the  fruit,  and  core  well ;  the  slices  of  quince  should  be 
pretty  thin.  Put  a  layer  of  the  latter  in  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle  (as  they  are  longer  in  cooking),  and  then  one  of 
apples  ;  repeat  the  layers,  pour  in  cold  water  to  about  half 
cover,  and  when  the  fruit  begins  to  boil  set  it  where  it 
will  stew  very  slowly.  Cook  without  stirring,  and  let  it 
simmer  about  an  hour  ;  cover  with  a  lid  that  will  not 
blacken,  or  else  leave  it  off  altogether.  When  done  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  leave  the  fruit  to  cool  in  the  kettle. 

Another  way  is  to  take  finely-flavored  russets  and  quinces, 
three  or  four  parts  of  the  former  to  one  of  the  latter ; 
then  prepare  and  stew  as  before. 

Crab-Apple  Sauce. 

Stew  Siberian  crab-apples  in  a  little  water,  until  they  are 
reduced  to  a  soft  pulp  ;  then  rub  through  a  coarse  sieve  or 
colander  to  remove  the  seeds,  cores  and  skins,  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  This  sauce  has  a  peculiar,  spicy  taste,  which  is 
very  agreeable. 

Stewed   Peaches.=|= 

Select  fruit  that  is  not  too  ripe  ;  if  wanted  for  canning, 
it  should  be  quite  firm,  entirely  too  hard  for  eating.  The 
more  sunny  and  rosy  it  is,  the  better  the  flavor.  Wet  the 
peaches  to  prevent  the  down  from  rubbing  off.     If  they 


PART  II.]  FRUITS   AND    FRUIT   JUICES.  209 

are  freestones  cut  them  in  halves,  take  out  the  pits,  and  re- 
move any  gum  that  may  adhere,  as  it  is  extremely  bitter. 
Then  with  a  sharp  thin  knife  pare  off  the  skins,  wasting  as 
little  of  the  fruit  as  possible  ;  if  free  from  gum  you  may 
pare  first,  and  then  take  out  the  pits.  Put  the  peaches  into 
a  fruit-kettle,  a  few  at  a  time,  if  you  want  them  unbroken, 
and  allow  one  part  cold  water  to  six  parts  fruit,  or  enough 
for  the  juice  required  ;  too  much  water  will  spoil  the  flavor. 
Bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  skim  if  necessary.  If  ripe,  the 
fruit  will  be  cooked  sufficiently  by  the  time  it  is  fairly 
boiling  ;  if  unripe,  cook  till  it  softens,  which  will  require 
only  a  few  minutes.  Then  take  from  the  fire,  and  with  a 
spoon  lift  out  each  half,  being  careful  not  to  break  it  ; 
place  the  fruit  in  a  dish  and  pour  the  juice  over.  Or  you 
may  leave  it  in  the  kettle  till  cold,  before  dishing. 

Clingstones  should  be  pared  and  stewed  whole  ;  if  rather 
green,  try  with  a  fork  when  they  begin  to  boil,  and  cook 
only  till  tender  ;  if  very  tart,  they  will  be  done  in  nearly  no 
time.  Should  you  .remove  the  pits,  stew  them  in  a  little 
water,  and  take  it  to  cook  the  peaches. 

Baked  Peaches. 

Take  good  clingstones,  wash  well,  removing  any  blemishes, 
but  do  not  peel  them.  Fill  a  stone  jar  or  crock  nearly  full, 
add  a  pint  or  more  of  cold  water,  cover,  and  bake  in  a  very 
slow  oven  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours.  If  the  peaches 
are  tart  and  juicy,  less  cooking  and  a  smaller  quantity  of 
water  will  be  needed. 

Apricots. 

Prepare  and  stew  the  same  as  peaches,  removing  the  pits. 

Stewed   Pears.  =j= 

The  fruit  must  not  be  too  green,  and  yet  hardly  begin- 
ning to  soften  ;  if  too  ripe  or  too  green  it  will  be  insipid. 


210  HEALTH   LN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II, 

Tart  pears  are  always  best  for  cooking,  as  the  sweet  vari- 
eties are  usually  tasteless  ;  the  Bartlett  is  the  best.  Kemove 
the  skins  with  a  sharp  thin  knife,  cut  in  halves,  or  if  large 
into  quarters,  and  take  out  the  seeds.  Put  them  into  a  ket- 
tle, and  pour  in  cold  water  in  the  proportion  of  one  part 
water  to  seven  of  fruit,  or  until  about  half  of  it  is  covered  ; 
then  place  over  a  slow  fire  ;  it  must  not  be  stirred.  When 
it  begins  to  boil,  set  the  kettle  back  where  it  will  simmer, 
keeping  it  closely  covered  with  a  clean  lid  till  the  top  pieces 
are  soft ;  cook  slowly,  from  forty  to  sixty  minutes.  If  the 
pears  are  fair  and  rosy,  the  sauce  will  be  of  a  reddish  tint, 
and  the  flavor  fine.  When  done  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
let  it  remain  in  the  kettle  till  cold.  No  sugar  is  needed  if 
the  fruit  is  of  good  quality. 

Baked  Pears. 

Select  pears  with  a  smooth  tender  skin,  not  very  large 
and  not  too  green.  Fill  a  stone  jar  with  them,  packing 
them  in  closely,  and  then  pour  in  cold  or  tepid  water  till  the 
fruit  is  two-thirds  covered.  Turn  an  old  plate  over,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  three  hours. 

Apples  (as  Spitzenbergs  or  winesaps),  peeled  and  cored, 
may  be  baked  in  the  same  way. 

Plums.  4= 

Plums  are  of  all  varieties  and  flavors  ;  some  are  very 
sweet,  others  intensely  sour  ;  some  are  quite  insipid  when 
cooked,  while  others  are  of  fine  flavor.  The  damsons,  and 
the  blue  and  green  gages,  are  best.  Pick  carefully  to  avoid 
worms,  and  wash.  If  you  have  damsons,  let  them  be  almost 
ripe;  a  little  soft  to  the  touch;  for  every  five  quarts  of  pre- 
pared fruit  put  in  five  pints  of  cold  water,  stew  slowly,  and 
skim  when  they  begin  to  boil ;  then  add  two  cups  of  sugar, 
skim  again,  and  cook  rather  slowly  ten  minutes. 

The  blue  and  green  gages  are  not  nearly  as  acid  as  the 


PART  II.]  FRUITS   AND    FRUIT    JUICES.  211 

damsons,  and  therefore  require  less  sugar  by  at  least  one- 
half  ;  they  also  take  less  water.  A  good  rule  for  these,  is 
three  pints  of  water  to  six  quarts  of  picked  fruit ;  boil  and 
skim,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  cook  very  slowly  till  soft  ; 
say  from  three  to  five  minutes  after  the  boiling  commences. 
If  wanted  for  canning,  the  gages  must  be  gathered  before 
they  are  quite  ripe,  as  they  fall  to  pieces  badly. 

Strawberries.=|= 

Strawberries,  in  ripe  perfection,  are  not  expected  to  see 
the  fire  ;  but  so  transient  are  they,  that  we  have  sometimes 
to  cook  in  order  to  keep  them.  Besides,  it  is  very  conven- 
ient to  can  them  for  temporary  or  future  use,  and  open  as 
they  are  wanted  ;  berries  that  are  ripe  and  sweet,  but  thor- 
oughly firm  and  sound,  are  best.  If  fresh  from  the  beds 
and  free  from  sand  or  earth,  do  not  wash  them,  as  it  injures 
the  flavor.  But  if  washing  is  necessary,  do  it  quickly,  in  a 
colander  ;  then  drain  well,  remove  the  caps,  throw  out  any 
refuse  berries,  and  put  those  that  are  not  perfect  by  them- 
selves, for  separate  attention.  Allow  for  every  five  quarts 
of  prepared  fruit  one  quart  of  cold  water,  and  two-thirds  of 
a  cup  of  sugar — though  if  fully  ripe,  little  if  any  sugar  is 
needed.  Put  the  water  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  add  the 
berries ;  do  not  crowd  it,  as  the  fruit  foams  very  much. 
Place  over  a  slow  fire,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim  ; 
then  add  the  sugar,  and  skim  again  ;  stir  down  the  fruit 
with  a  wooden  paddle,  and  cook  slowly  five  to  ten  minutes  ; 
a  little  longer,  if  intended  for  canning. 

Fruit  Juices. 

In  all  the  fruit  juices,  do  not  sweeten  until  after  the  strain- 
ing is  done  ;  otherwise,  a  part  of  the  sugar  will  be  wasted. 
If  the  fruit  is  very  acid,  it  is  best  to  strain  through  a  cloth 
— or  an  earthen  colander — as  tin  discolors  the  liquid  ;  if 
through  a  cloth,  use  coarse  linen  or  cotton,  or  old  flannel ; 
15 


212  HEALTH  IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

common  cheese  cloth  is  first  rate.  Never  strain  into 
earthen  or  stone  ware  lined  with  lead  glaze  ;  this  is  very 
poisonous,  and  acid  corrodes  it. 

Strawberry  Juice.=§= 

Prepare  the  fruit  as  in  the  recipe  for  strawberries  (omit- 
ting the  sugar),  and  cook  five  minutes  ;  then  strain  out  the 
juice,  add  the  sugar,  and  heat  to  a  boil.  This  is  an  excel- 
lent beverage,  or  a  good  sauce  for  mushes  ;  used  as  a  bever- 
age, it  will  require  diluting  with  water.  If  wanted  for 
winter  use,  put  it  into  cans,  boiling  hot. 

Eed  Currants.=J= 

Wash  in  a  colander,  drain  well,  and  stem  without  break- 
ing the  currants  ;  throw  out  the  faulty  or  discolored  ones. 
Put  the  fruit  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  allow  three  quarts 
of  cold  water  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  to  every  five  quarts  of 
stemmed  currants.  Cook  slowly,  skim  when  the  kettle 
begins  to  boil,  and  as  soon  as  the  mass  is  thoroughly  heated, 
remove  from  the  fire. 

Currant  Juice.  4= 

Prepare  the  fruit  as  in  the  last  recipe,  adding  the  water, 
but  not  the  sugar,  and  cook  very  slowly  ;  then  strain  through 
a  cloth  or  an  earthen  colander,  put  in  the  sugar,  and  heat 
again  to  boiling.  Currant  juice  makes  a  fine  beverage,  and 
a  delicious  sauce  for  mushes,  etc.;  it  is  also  good  served 
with  currant  scone,  or  fruit  roll.  If  prepared  for  drinking, 
allow  four  quarts  of  water  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  to  five 
quarts  of  stemmed  fruit ;  strain  before  sweetening,  heat 
again  to  a  boil,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Or  it  may  be  canned 
for  winter  use. 


part  ii.]  fruits  and  fruit  juices.  213 

Raspberries  and  Currants.  =|= 

Wash  the  currants  in  a  colander,  drain  them  well,  and 
strip  carefully  from  the  stems  ;  all  that  are  bruised  and  dis- 
colored should  be  thrown  out.  Then  look  over  the  rasp- 
berries, and  see  that  there  are  no  stems  or  leaves  among 
them ;  the  fruit  should  not  be  overripe.  Add  to  four 
quarts  of  black  raspberries  one  of  red  currants  (more  cur- 
rants and  less  berries  are  better),  and  allow  five  pints  of 
cold  water  to  the  five  quarts  of  mixed  fruit.  Put  all  into 
a  porcelain  kettle,  heat  slowly,  and  skim  as  soon  as  it  boils  ; 
then  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  skim  again  ;  cook  over 
a  slow  fire  five  minutes. 

If  red  raspberries  are  used  (and  they  are  excellent),  take 
two  quarts  of  water  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  to  five 
quarts  of  mixed  fruit. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Juice.  =j= 

Prepare  the  berries  and  currants  as  in  the  preceding  rec- 
ipe, and  when  they  begin  to  boil  stew  slowly  three  to  five 
minutes  ;  then  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth.  Return  to 
the  kettle,  add  the  sugar,  and  heat  gradually  till  the  liquid 
boils  ;  skim  if  there  is  need.  If  not  wanted  for  immediate 
use,  put  it  into  glass  cans  boiling  hot,  and  set  in  a  dark 
place.  This  juice  makes  a  good  sauce  for  grains,  mushes, 
plain  puddings,  etc. 

Gooseberries.  =|= 

Gooseberries,  like  other  fruits,  are  best  ripe,  or  nearly  so ; 
if  stewed  when  beginning  to  turn  red,  they  are  excellent. 
Remove  the  stems  and  blossoms,  and  wash  thoroughly  ;  put 
them  into  a  fruit-kettle,  and  allow  two  quarts  of  cold  water 
for  every  six  quarts  of  berries.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling,  and 
skim  ;  then  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  cook  five  minutes,  and 
either  put  the  fruit  into  cans  or  set  it  off  to  cool.  If  the 
berries  are  sufficiently  ripe,  the  juice  will  be  a  delicate  pink 


214  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  H. 

color,  and  very  fine  in  flavor  ;  if  they  are  rather  green,  cook 
a  few  minutes  longer  (never  too  fast),  and  use  a  little  more 
sugar. 

In  eating  this  sauce,  persons  of  weak  digestion  should  not 
swallow  the  skins ;  the  better  way,  however,  would  be  to 
remove  them  by  rubbing  the  fruit  through  a  colander  before 
sending  it  to  the  table. 

Gooseberries  for  Pies.=|= 

Gooseberries  canned  when  they  are  beginning  to  ripen, 
make  excellent  pies  in  winter.  For  this  purpose,  prepare 
and  stew  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  except  that  less  water 
is  needed  ;  three  pints  of  water  to  six  quarts  of  fruit  will  be 
enough  ;  put  into  cans,  boiling  hot.  If,  on  opening,  there 
is  more  juice  than  is  needed,  drain  off  the  top  ;  it  will  make 
a  good  drink ;  or  it  can  be  used  as  a  sauce  for  mushes. 
When  you  make  into  pies,  add  a  little  more  sugar — say  a 
spoonful  to  each  pie. 

Gooseberry  Juice.+ 

Look  over  the  fruit,  but  do  not  stem  it ;  the  stems  and 
blossoms  will  strain  out  with  the  skins.  Wash  and  stew  as 
in  the  last  recipe  but  one  ;  then  strain  through  a  colander, 
add  the  sugar,  and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  If  not  wanted  for 
present  use,  put  the  juice  into  cans,  and  open  as  it  is 
needed. 

A  good  way  for  winter  use  is  to  cook  the  fruit,  sweeten, 
and  put  it  into  cans  without  straining  ;  you  can  strain 
through  a  colander  when  you  open  it.  There  is  a  double 
advantage  in  this  method  ;  it  saves  all  the  trouble  of  strain- 
ing during  the  busy  season  of  fruit-canning,  and  the  juice 
is  not  so  apt  to  be  discolored  if  put  through  the  colander 
cold.  Earthen  colanders  of  fire-proof  ware,  would  be  better 
than  tin ;  the  tin  ones,  even  when  new,  will  discolor  most 


PART  II.  J  FRUITS    AND    FRUIT   JUICES.  215 

acid  fruits ;    and  they  are   still  more  objectionable  after 
being  used  a  season. 

Gooseberry  juice  is  much  liked  as  a  beverage  for  the  sick, 
particularly  when  something  sour  is  wanted  ;  it  is  also  used 
as  a  dressing  for  grains  and  mushes. 

Black  Morello  Cherries.=J= 

The  black  morello  is  the  richest  cherry  we  have,  not  only 
for  stewing  and  canning,  but  also  for  pies.  Wash  the  fruit 
and  look  it  over  carefully,  throwing  out  any  wormy  cherries, 
and  putting  those  that  are  knotty  into  a  separate  dish  to 
seed.  The  perfect  ones  are  better  with  the  seeds  left  in  ; 
the  flavor  is  finer,  and  if  canned  for  winter  use  the  cherries 
keep  better.  Put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  two  quarts  of  cold 
water  to  five  quarts  of  prepared  fruit ;  skim  when  it  begins 
to  boil,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  cook  slowly  three  or  four 
minutes.     Too  much  cooking  makes  the  cherries  insipid. 

May   Cherries.  =|= 

Wash  and  look  over  as  in  the  last  recipe,  leaving  the  seeds 
in.  Stew  in  the  same  way,  except  that  less  sugar  and 
water  are  needed ;  to  five  quarts  of  picked  fruit,  three 
pints  of  cold  water  and  nearly  one  cup  of  sugar  will 
be  ample  ;  and  if  the  cherries  are  particularly  juicy,  take 
less  water  by  at  least  one  pint.  If  intended  for  canning 
the  seeds  should  be  removed,  as  they  give  an  unpleasant 
flavor  to  the  fruit,  after  a  time.  The  English  morello  is  fine 
stewed  in  the  same  way.  The  very  sweet  varieties  of 
cherries  are  rather  tasteless  when  cooked. 

Cherries  for  Pies.=|= 

The  black  morello  is  the  best  cherry  for  pies,  as  well  as 
for  sauce,  though  the  May  cherry  is  very  good.  Wash, 
look  over  carefully,  and  seed  ;  to  five  quarts  of  seeded 
cherries,  add  (if  morello)  two   quarts   of  cold  water   and 


216  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART   II. 

two  full  cups  of  sugar.  If  May  cherries  are  used,  take 
three  pints  of  water  and  one  heaping  cup  of  sugar.  When 
the  fruit  is  fairly  boiling,  can  it,  and  set  it  away  for  winter 
use.  Cherries  grown  in  some  ]atitudes  are  more  juicy,  and 
therefore  require  a  little  less  water. 

Blackberries.^ 

Select  fruit  not  too  ripe — it  should  be  a  little  firm  to  the 
touch — and  see  that  it  is  recently  gathered.  Stale  black- 
berries turn  a  dull  red  color,  and  are  frequently  mistaken  for 
underripe  fruit ;  if  eaten  in  this  state  without  cooking,  they 
often  cause  cholera  morbus.  If  bought  in  the  city  markets, 
look  them  over  carefully  ;  then  stew  in  a  porcelain  kettle, 
allowing  three  pints  of  cold  water  to  every  five  quarts  of 
fruit.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  skim  ;  then  add  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  if  necessary  skim  again  ; 
when  the  kettle  is  fairly  boiling  remove  from  the  fire,  or 
put  the  fruit  into  cans.  If  intended  for  pies,  make  less 
juicy ;  one  quart  of  water  to  five  quarts  of  berries,  would 
be  plenty. 

Blackberry  Juice.=§= 

Prepare  and  cook  as  in  the  recipe  just  given,  except  that 
you  strain  through  a  cloth  before  adding  the  sugar  ;  then 
heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  remove  the  juice  from  the  fire. 
If  wanted  for  winter  use,  put  it  into  cans,  boiling  hot.  This 
juice  makes  an  excellent  dressing  for  mushes,  or  plain  pud- 
dings. 

Grapes.  =|= 

Grapes,  to  be  finely  flavored  when  cooked,  should  be  of 
the  very  best  quality,  and  fully  ripe.  Wash  in  a  colander, 
and  then  strip  from  the  stems,  throwing  out  all  the  faulty 
ones.  Put  them  into  a  fruit-kettle,  with  nearly  enough 
water  to  cover  ;  a  good  rule,  is  two  quarts  of  water  to  six 
quarts  of  stripped  grapes ;  if  barely  ripe,  take  a  little  less 


PAK'i  ILj  FRUITS    AND   FRUIT   JUICES.  217 

water  ;  no  sugar  is  needed.  Skim  when  they  begin  to  boil, 
and  cook  slowly  five  minutes;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  or 
put  into  cans. 

For  grapes,  plums,  blackberries,  etc.,  take  a  wooden  pad- 
dle to  stir  or  push  down  the  fruit  when  it  threatens  to  boil 
over  ;  iron  spoons  discolor  it,  and  should  not  be  used. 

G-RAPE   JUICE.=|= 

Simple  grape  juice,  strange  to  say,  is  a  thing  of  compar- 
atively recent  manufacture.  In  St.  Louis,  where  for  many 
years  grapes  have  been  grown  in  great  abundance,  this  ex- 
cellent beverage  was  unheard  of  until  about  the  year  1872, 
when  it  was  prepared  by  the  hygienists. 

When  the  grapes  are  at  their  best  for  eating,  they  are 
just  right  for  juice.  Prepare  as  in  the  preceding  recipe, 
heating  slowly,  and  skimming  well ;  and  when  the  whole 
mass  is  boiling  hot,  strain  through  a  cloth.  If  a  colander 
is  used  an  earthen  one  is  best,  as  tin  discolors  the  liquid  ; 
when  no  more  juice  will  run  through,  put  the  seeds  and 
skins  into  a  coarse  linen  bag,  or  one  of  ordinary  cheese- 
cloth, and  express  the  remainder  ;  a  jelly-squeezer  would, 
answer,  but  it  is  sure  to  discolor,  more  or  less.  Add  no 
sugar.  The  less  the  fruit  (or  juice)  is  cooked,  the  brighter 
the  color  and  the  better  the  flavor  ;  like  all  small  or  tender 
fruits,  it  is  injured  by  long  or  rapid  boiling  ;  the  color  be- 
comes dark,  and  the  fine  fresh  flavor  is  gone.  After  you 
have  done  straining  and  squeezing,  put  all  the  liquid  back 
into  the  kettle,  let  it  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  then  remove 
from  the  fire  or  seal  in  cans. 

This  juice  put  into  glass  cans  or  bottles,  boiling  hot,  will 
keep  well  for  a  year,  provided  it  stays  in  a  cool  dark  place. 
With  a  bit  of  ice  (or  better,  cooled  in  the  ice-chest)  it  makes 
a  fine  drink  in  summer  ;  and  in  all  seasons  it  is  a  grateful 
beverage,  for  the  sick  or  well.  Served  with  currant  scone, 
fruit  roll,  or  Graham  fruit  cake,  it  is  excellent  and  when  of 


218  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

rather  thick  consistency,  it  makes  a  very  good  sauce  for 
mushes. 

In  preparing  grape  juice  for  a  beverage,  it  is  best  to  strain  it 
through  flannel  or  cheese-cloth,  instead  of  through  a  colander. 
Do  not  strain  into  stone  or  earthen  jars  which  are  lined 
with  lead  glaze;  acids,  fruit  or  vegetable,  will  corrode  it. 

Mixed  Juices. 

Very  fine  beverages  and  sauces  are  made,  by  mixing  two 
or  more  varieties  of  small  fruits  in  any  proportion  desired, 
and  then  cooking  and  straining  as  in  the  preceding  recipes. 
Strawberries  and  cherries  make  an  excellent  combination ; 
so  do  raspberries  and  cherries,  or  raspberries  and  currants. 

Huckleberries. 

Like  most  small  fruits,  huckleberries,  if  perfect,  are  best 
in  their  natural  state.  But  after  being  shipped  to  distant 
points  they  are  often  in  such  a  condition  as  to  require 
cooking.  Stew  the  same  as  blackberries,  with  little  or  no 
sugar.  They  may  be  put  into  glass  cans  (never  in  tin),  and 
kept  for  pies  or  sauce  in  winter. 

Cranberries.  =§= 
In  buying  cranberries  see  that  they  are  sound  ;  and  in 
looking  them  over  throw  out  all  the  very  soft  ones,  and  any 
that  are  affected  with  "  dry  rot,"  as  these  are  extremely 
bitter.  After  washing,  put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
and  add  about  three  pints  of  cold  water  to  two  quarts  of 
sorted  fruit.  This  rule  is  subject  to  slight  variations,  some 
varieties  being  less  juicy  than  others  ;  a  berry  not  so  juicy 
would  need  more  water,  almost  as  much  as  there  is  fruit. 
Skim  as  soon  as  the  kettle  begins  to  boil,  and  stir  well 
Then  let  it  boil  slowly  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  ;  take 
from  the  fire,  press  the  berries  through  a  colander  to  remove 
the  skins,  and  add  one  cup  of  sugar.     Return  the  sauce  to 


PART  II.]  FRUITS    AND    FRUIT    JUICES.  219 

the  kettle,  and  simmer  till  hot  ;  then  set  it  away  in  a  cool 
place.  If  the  berries  are  very  ripe,  more  water  and  less 
sugar  will  be  needed;  say  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
three  and  a  half  pints  of  water,  to  two  quarts  of  sound 
fruit. 

Cranberries  may  be  canned  for  winter  use,  the  same  as 
other  small  fruits.  Or,  they  may  be  kept  under  water  in  a 
cool  place  ;  they  are  said  to  keep  in  this  way  nearly  or  quite 
all  winter.  The  water  should  be  changed  occasionally,  and 
the  vessel  containing  it  should  stand  in  a  clean,  cool  place, 
well  ventilated. 

Dried  Apples.  =f= 

Apples  of  first-rate  quality,  properly  dried  and  cooked, 
are  both  good  tasting  and  good  looking  ;  the  pieces,  whole 
and  perfect,  are  light  in  color,  and  the  juice  that  surrounds 
them  is  rich  and  palatable.  Unfortunately,  the  article  in  our 
markets  is  not  of  the  kind  here  described  ;  the  apples  (and 
peaches  for  that  matter)  selected  for  this  purpose,  are  gen- 
erally the  very  poorest  the  orchard  affords  ;  knotty,  gnarled, 
inferior  in  flavor,  and  often  grown  in  the  shade  ;  and  not  un- 
frequently  they  are  half  rotted  in  the  process  of  drying. 
Instead  of  the  beautiful  fruit  that  used  to  come  from  the 
country  dry-house,  all  in  large  white  quarters,  we  see  a  dark 
mass  of  scrappy-looking  apples,  full  of  cores  and  other  im- 
perfections. 

The  first  thing,  then,  is  to  pick  over  the  fruit  carefully, 
trimming  off  any  burnt  edges  or  other  defective  portions  ; 
then  wash  quickly  in  cold  water,  rubbing  the  pieces  well 
with  the  fingers,  and  lifting  them  into  a  separate  vessel ;  if 
not  thoroughly  cleansed,  wash  again  in  the  same  way.  Then 
put  them  into  a  clean  fruit-kettle,  nearly  cover  with  boilinr/ 
water,  and  cook  rather  fast  till  tolerably  soft.  Apples  that 
are  recently  and  quickly  dried,  as  with  steam,  will  usually 
cook  in  half  an  hour  ;  but  if  old  or  dried  in  the  sun,  it  may 


220  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II- 

take  from  one  to  two  hours'  fast  boiling,  to  make  them  ten- 
der. If  cooked  too  long,  however,  they  will  be  tasteless. 
When  about  half  done,  more  boning  water  will  probably  be 
needed  ;  but  do  not  add  too  much,  lest  you  spoil  their  flavor. 
Just  before  lifting  from  the  fire,  put  in  (if  they  require  it) 
enough  boiling  water  to  make  them  pretty  juicy. 

If  new,  steam-dried,  and  cut  in  quarters  or  eighths,  the 
following  rule  is  a  good  one  :  Over  two  quarts  of  apples, 
trimmed  and  washed,  pour  three  quarts  of  boiling  water  ; 
cook  pretty  fast  twenty  minutes  ;  then  add  one  quart  of 
water,  boiling  hot,  and  cook  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  longer.  If 
managed  just  right  they  will  be  of  a  bright  color,  and  rich 
in  flavor.  Set  them  away  in  the  kettle  to  cool,  with  the  lid 
off ;  and  in  lifting  into  the  fruit-dish  for  the  table,  be  care- 
ful not  to  break  the  pieces. 

When  the  apples  are  of  poor  quality,  a  handful  of  raisins 
stewed  with  them  is  sometimes  an  improvement. 

Dried  Peaches  and  Plums.=§= 

These  are  prepared  and  stewed  the  same  as  dried  apples  ; 
if  cut  thin  they  may  require  a  little  less  time  to  cook,  and 
also  less  water. 

Dried  Peaches.=|= 

Look  the  peaches  over,  one  at  a  time,  throwing  out  any 
worthless  pieces,  and  trimming  the  defective  ones  with  a 
sharp  knife.  If  unpeeled,  wash  them  through  two  or  three 
waters,  and  rub  well  with  the  fingers  to  remove  the  down. 
Start  .in  boiling  water,  and  stew  rather  fast  till  tender;  if 
steam-dried,  they  will  usually  cook  in  about  twenty-five 
minutes.  They  swell  less  than  apples  in  stewing,  and  there- 
fore require  a  little  less  water;  about  two  measures  of  un- 
cooked peaches,  to  three  of  water.  Have  them  just  soft, 
when  done ;  too  much  cooking  or  too  much  fluid,  gives  the 
fruit  a  washed-out  taste.     The  juice,  of  which  there  must 


PART  II.]  FRUITS    AND    FRUIT    JUICES.  221 

be  plenty,  should  be  of  a  clear  amber  color,  mild  in  flavor, 
but  good  and  rich ;  it  is  an  excellent  dressing  for  mushes. 
For  dried  apricots  soak  over  night,  in  water  enough  to 
cover  them  well.  Simmer  slowly  (not  boil)  in  the  same 
water  for  about  two  hours.  Add  water  as  needed,  boiling 
hot,  to  make  the  sauce  quite  juicy. 

Prunes.  =))= 

See  that  there  are  no  wormy  or  imperfect  ones;  then 
wash  the  prunes  through  two  waters  very  thoroughly,  rub- 
bing them  well  with  the  fingers.  If  this  is  not  done  care- 
fully, the  juice  will  be  dark  and  muddy-looking;  it  should 
be  clear  in  color,  not  darker  than  the  juice  of  fine  dried 
peaches.  It  is  often  the  slovenly  preparing  that  makes 
dried  fruit  so  unsightly,  and  so  little  relished.  Stew  the 
same  as  peaches,  allowing  three  pints  of  boiling  water  to  a 
quart  of  prunes;  they  will  cook  in  twenty-five  to  thirty 
minutes.  This  fruit  is  greatly  improved  in  flavor  by  adding 
a  handful  of  tart  dried  plums,  before  stewing;  some  use 
instead,  a  sliced  lemon,  first  removing  the  rind  and  seeds; 
it  should  be  put  in  when  the  prunes  are  about  done. 

Dried  Plums.  =|= 

Dried  plums  of  some  varieties,  are  very  good;  they  are 
cooked  the  same  as  prunes.  If  quite  tart,  a  little  sugar 
may  be  added  before  taking  them  from  the  fire.  The  very 
tart  varieties  are  excellent  mixed  with  prunes,  allowing  one 
part  plums  to  three  or  four  parts  prunes. 

Dried  Cherries. 

These  are  prepared  and  cooked  the  same  as  plums,  ex- 
cept that  they  stew  in  shorter  time ;  start  in  boiling  water, 
and  take  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  done,  or  they  will  be  in- 
sipid.    They  usually  cook  in  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 


222  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

Other  small  fruits  (dried),  as  raspberries,  currants,  black- 
berries, etc.,  are  done  in  the  same  way.  Raspberries  and 
currants  are  best  stewed  together;  and  a  few  dried  black- 
berries stewed  with  dried  apples,  are  said  to  be  good. 

Prunes  and  Plums.  =§= 

Take  one  measure  of  tart  dried  plums,  and  three  or  four 
of  prunes;  then  look  them  over  carefully,  wash  well,  and 
stew  together  till  done;  they  will  cook  in  half  an  hour.  The 
sauce  made  from  this  combination  is  rather  tart,  but  very 
agreeable  to  the  taste.  Allow  three  pints  water  to  a  quart 
of  mixed  fruit;  no  sugar  is  needed. 

Sweet  Currants.  =J= 

Inspect  very  closely,  as  there  are  often  small  flinty  stones 
packed  in  with  the  fruit;  break  up  the  lumps  that  stick  to- 
gether, and  throw  out  what  is  imperfect.  Put  the  currants 
into  a  basin  of  water,  wash  with  the  hands,  rubbing  well, 
and  lift  them  out  into  another  vessel;  this  will  allow  any 
sediment  or  stones  to  sink  to  the  bottom.  Then  turn  them 
into  a  colander,  and  wash  thoroughly,  till  clean;  put  them 
into  a  fruit-kettle,  add  a  moderate  quantity  of  boiling  water 
(too  much  in  the  start  weakens  the  flavor),  and  stew  gently, 
thirty-five  minutes.  If  not  juicy  enough,  put  in  more  boil- 
ing water,  just  before  finishing.  A  good  rule  is  the  follow- 
ing: To  a  quart  of  currants,  picked  over  and  washed,  add 
to  start  with,  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  moder- 
ately twenty  minutes;  then  add  one  pint  more  (boiling), 
and  stew  fifteen  minutes  longer.  You  may  try  them  once 
or  twice,  toward  the  last;  and  the  moment  they  are  tender, 
remove  from  the  fire;  too  much  cooking  spoils  them.  Let 
them  stand  till  perfectly  cold  before  sending  to  the  table. 
If  well  managed  the  juice  will  be  clear,  but  rich  in  color 
and  fine  in  flavor.  This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  mushes, 
and  particularly  good  for  corn  mush. 


part  ii.  j  fruits  and  fruit  juices.  223 

Kaisins. 

Pick  from  the  stems,  throwing  out  imperfect  raisins;  then 
wash,  and  stew  in  a  moderate  quantity  of  water,  allowing, 
say,  two  and  a  half  pints  cold  water  to  every  pint  of  picked 
fruit.  Stew  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  or  till  tender,  and 
let  there  be  plenty  of  juice  when  done.  If  this  sauce  is  too 
sweet,  peel  and  slice  in  a  lemon  after  taking  it  from  the 
fire.  In  the  absence  of  lemons,  a  handful  of  dried  red 
currants  may  be  cooked  with  the  raisins. 

Oranges. 

Oranges  if  perfect,  are  a  wholesome  and  finely  flavored 
fruit;  but  as  a  rule,  they  are  not  easily  digested  with  other 
fruits.  They  are  therefore  best  eaten  by  themselves;  that 
is,  between  meals — or  they  may  be  served  as  a  dessert,  pro- 
vided no  other  fruits  form  a  part  of  the  repast. 

Lemons. 

Lemons  are  so  extremely  acid,  that,  dietetically  speaking, 
they  take  the  place  of  a  condiment  rather  than  a  food. 
Like  oranges,  they  form  a  better  combination  with  vege- 
tables than  with  fruits;  and  they  make  a  fine  dressing, 
either  for  vegetables  or  meats.  Lemon  juice  diluted  with 
water,  is  often  taken  on  an  empty  stomach  for  disordered 
liver. 

Bananas. 

Bananas  (for  weak  stomachs  at  least)  are  best  not  eaten 
with  other  fruits.  In  fact,  dietetically  considered,  they  be- 
long, like  melons  and  tomatoes,  with  vegetables  rather  than 
with  fruits.  They  are  best  eaten  at  the  beginning  of  the 
meal,  as  they  are  rather  hearty. 


224  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

POMAEIUS. 

"  This  is  a  very  delicate  jelly,  formed  from  the  expressed 
juice  of  tart  apples,  sound  and  ripe,  with  no  admixture  of 
sugar  or  gelatine.  The  fresh  juice  is  filtered  through  a 
thick  flannel  cloth,  and  quickly  evaporated,  by  gently  heat- 
ing it  in  porcelain  pans  to  the  consistency  of  a  heavy  jelly. 
From  ten  gallons  of  juice,  one  gallon  of  Pomarius  is  pro- 
duced. It  is  found  to  keep  uninjured  through  the  hot  sea- 
son, without  being  sealed.  It  imparts  a  delicious  flavor  to 
all  the  cereals,  and  forms  a  grateful  beverage  when  diluted 
with  water." 

This  recipe  is  taken  from  Dr.  Trail's  "Hygeian  Home 
Cook-Book." 

DRINKS  FOR  THE  SICK. 

In  preparing  fruit  drinks,  let  none  but  sound  fruit  be 
used.  Look  it  over  carefully,  and  if  not  perfectly  clean, 
wash  through  a  colander — except  raspberries  and  black- 
berries, which,  being  too  soft  to  wash,  must  be  "  taken  on 
trust."  Cook  in  a  vessel  that  is  porcelain-lined,  or  made  of 
granitized  iron  ;  and  if  the  water  used  in  stewing  is  not 
soft,  or  is  saturated  with  mud,  boil  thoroughly,  and  settle 
till  clear.  After  these  drinks  are  made  set  them  in  the  re- 
frigerator, or  in  a  vessel  of  ice-water,  and  cool  to  the 
proper  temperature;  if  they  are  too  concentrated,  dilute 
with  a  little  pure  water. 

Currant  Juice.  =f= 

Allow  nearly  a  quart  of  water  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  to  a  full  quart  of  currants  stripped  from  the  stems; 
heat  slowly  to  a  boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  skim.  Then 
simmer  five  minutes,  strain  through  a  cloth,  and  cool. 
There  is  no  finer  drink  for  the  sick  than  this;  it  can  be 


PART  II.]  DRINKS   FOR   THE    SICK.  225 

diluted  with  water  if  necessary,  and  a  little  more  or  less 
sugar  used,  to  suit  the  taste. 

Strawberry  Juice.=|= 

Add  half  a  pint  of  water  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
to  one  quart  of  capped  strawberries.  Put  into  a  porcelain 
kettle  and  heat,  skimming  when  it  boils;  then  stew  slowly, 
five  to  seven  minutes.  Strain  and  cool;  if  too  rich,  dilute 
with  water.     This  is  an  excellent  drink. 

Grape  Juice.=|= 

Select  the  best  of  grapes,  not  overripe;  then  prepare  and 
stew  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  allowing  one  pint  of  water  to 
three  pints  of  fruit,  picked  from  the  stems.  When  it  comes 
to  a  boil,  skim  it;  then  simmer  slowly  five  minutes,  and 
strain  through  a  clean  flannel  cloth  or  a  cotton  cheese-cloth. 
Heat  again  almost  to  boiling,  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
cool.     As  a  mild  sub-acid  drink,  this  is  greatly  relished. 

Gooseberry  Juice.  =j= 

Select  sound  berries,  fresh  from  the  garden,  and  about 
half  or  two-thirds  ripe — pale  red  berries,  not  very  soft.  To 
a  pint  of  these,  picked  and  washed,  add  one  pint  of  water, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Then  heat  to  a  boil  in  a 
porcelain  kettle,  skim  well,  cook  five  minutes,  and  strain 
through  a  cloth;  let  the  juice  stand  till  it  is  cold,  and  drain 
off  the  clear  pink  fluid,  leaving  the  more  pulpy  portion  in 
the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  If  necessary,  dilute  with  water 
before  serving. 

Red  Raspberry  Juice. 

To  one  quart  of  fruit  allow  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  tabic 
spoonful  of  sugar;  stew  moderately  (in  a  porcelain  kettle) 
five  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  cloth.  Dilute  with  water 
if  necessary,  and  give  to  the  patient  when  cold. 


226  health  in  the  household.  [part  h. 

Black  Raspberry  Juice. 

Make  as  in  the  preceding,  only  leave  out  the  sugar.  This 
is  often  given  to  children  for  looseness  of  the  bowels; 
though  the  expressed  juice  (uncooked)  of  berries  fresh  from 
the  garden,  is  quite  as  good. 

Blackberry  Juice. 

To  a  quart  of  sound  fruit  add  a  pint  of  water,  and  stew 
without  sugar;  strain  and  cool.  This  also  is  used  for  lax- 
ness  or  diarrhea — and  so  is  the  fresh  juice  of  the  berry. 

Apple  Juice. 4= 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  rich,  juicy  apples,  as  pippins,  with 
a  tart  or  sub-acid  flavor,  and  start  to  cooking  in  water 
enough  to  make  plenty  of  syrup;  a  few  slices  of  quince 
may  be  added,  if  the  flavor  is  liked.  Then  simmer  gently 
one  hour,  or  till  the  fruit  is  quite  soft;  when  cold  drain  off 
the  juice.  No  sugar  will  be  needed,  unless  the  apples  are 
very  sour. 

The  juices  of  canned  fruits,  diluted  with  water,  make 
good  drinks  for  the  sick,  provided  they  are  put  up  with  lit- 
tle or  no  sugar. 

Dried  Apple  Juice. =|= 

Prepare  and  stew  good  rich  apples,  rather  tart,  allowing 
water  enough  to  make  them  quite  juicy.  After  the  apples 
are  done  lift  off  the  lid,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  juice  till 
it  is  cold;  then  drain  it  off,  diluting  with  water  if  necessary. 
This  makes  a  very  agreeable  drink.  If  wanted  in  haste, 
pour  boiling  water  on  the  raw  fruit,  sliced,  and  let  it  stand 
a  few  minutes;  then  drain  off,  cool,  and  serve. 

Dried  Peach  Juice. 

Select  good  fruit,  free  from  gum;  the  peeled  peaches  are 
best.     Prepare  and  stew  as  for  sauce,  allowing  plenty  of 


PART  II. 


DRINKS   FOR   THE    SICK.  227 


water  for  juice  when  done;  cool,   and  dilute  to  suit  the 
taste. 

Tart  dried  plums  may  be  used  instead  of  peaches. 

Cranberry  Juice. 

Take  fine  ripe  berries,  perfectly  sound,  wash  them,  add 
as  much  water  as  there  is  fruit,  and  stew  slowly  till  soft. 
Then  strain,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  dilute  with  water  if 
necessary.     Cool  before  serving. 

Cold  Lemonade.  =f= 

Select  lemons  that  are  sound  and  ripe;  the  taste  of  the 
green  fruit  is  intolerable.  The  Messina  lemons  are  best  in 
flavor,  and  full  of  juice.  Remove  the  rind,  and  either  slice 
them  or  use  the  lemon-squeezer;  put  in  very  little  sugar; 
for  some  patients,  none.  Add  pure  cold  water — ice-water 
if  you  have  it — diluting  to  suit  the  taste.  If  the  flavor  of 
the  rind  is  liked,  wash  the  lemons,  clip  off  the  ends,  and 
slice  thin,  removing  the  seeds;  then  add  the  sugar,  and  fill 
up  with  ice-water.    Stir  well,  and  after  a  few  minutes,  serve. 

Hot  Lemonade. =4= 

Roll  the  lemon,  cut  it  in  halves,  and  squeeze  the  juice 
into  a  tumbler;  or  you  may  remove  the  rind,  and  use  the 
lemon-squeezer.  Fill  up  with  hot  water,  and  serve  without 
sweetening. 

Orangeade.  =J= 

This  is  made  the  same  as  lemonade,  using  good  tart 
oranges. 

Raw  Fruit  Drinks.  + 

A  very  fine  drink  is  made  by  squeezing  the  juice  from 

ripe  strawberries,  and  diluting  it  with  cold  water;  add  a 

trifle  of  sugar,  if  desired.     Cherries,  currants,  grapes,  and 
lb 


228  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAKT  II. 

other  small  fruits,  can  be  used  in  the  same  way;  the  grapes 
if  ripe,  need  no  sugar. 

Or  you  may  peel  a  pine-apple,  slice  it  very  thin,  and  if 
desired  sprinkle  on  a  little  sugar.  Add  enough  ice-water 
to  cover  the  fruit,  and  set  it  in  the  refrigerator  an  hour  or 
two;  then  add  more  water,  diluting  to  suit  the  taste.  Drain, 
and  serve. 

Tamarind  Water. 

Soak  tamarinds  in  cold  water  an  hour;  then  pour  off  the 
water,  strain  it,  and  serve.  Good  dried  apples,  rather  tart, 
may  be  steeped  in  the  same  way;  and  so  may  prunelles. 

Apple  Tea. 

Peel  tart  apples,  as  pippins  or  bellflowers,  slice  very  thin, 
and  pour  boiling  water  over  them;  when  cold,  pour  off  the 
water.  If  preferred,  stew  in  considerable  water,  strain 
through  a  cloth,  and  then  cool  and  settle;  a  very  little  sugar 
may  be  added,  if  desired. 

Cranberry  Tea. 

Take  ripe  cranberries,  perfectly  sound,  mash  thoroughly, 
and  pour  boiling  water  over  them;  let  the  mixture  stand  a  few 
minutes,  or  till  cold;  then  strain  off  the  water,  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  Good  tart  apples,  scraped,  and  treated  in  the 
same  way,  may  be  used;  and  so  may  dried  sour  currants,  or 
dried  red  raspberries. 

Toast  Water.=§= 

Take  Graham  bread  that  is  two  or  three  days  old,  but 
perfectly  sweet;  the  unleavened  is  best;  cut  it  in  thin  slices, 
and  toast  slowly  and  evenly  till  thoroughly  dry,  and  well 
browned;  do  not  on  any  account  scorch  it.  Then  pour  over 
pure  cold  water,  let  it  stand  an  hour,  and  drain  off  the 
water  for  a  drink.     Stale  loaf  bread,  home-made  (of  Gra- 


PART  II.]  FOODS  FOR  THE  SICK.  229 

ham  or  white  flour),  may  also  be  used.  If  this  drink  is 
made  with  hard  water,  the  latter  should  be  first  boiled,  and 
then  allowed  to  cool  and  settle. 

Another  way  to  prepare  toast  water,  is  to  have  the  toast 
ready,  fill  a  small  pitcher  with  boiling  water,  and  drop  the 
slices  into  it ;  then  cool,  and  set  in  the  refrigerator  till 
wanted. 

If  liked,  you  may  parch  wheat,  corn,  barley,  rice,  or  any 
of  the  grains,  pour  over  boiling  water,  and  let  the  mixture 
steep  half  an  hour ;  the  grain  should  be  sound,  and  well 
washed  and  dried  before  parching.  Serve  the  drink  warm 
or  cold,  without  sweetening. 

Barley  Water. 

Over  a  third  of  a  teacupful  of  fresh  pearl  barley,  pour 
half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  simmer  five  minutes; 
then  drain  off  and  throw  away  this  liquid.  Now  add  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  is  reduced 
one-half.     Strain,  and  use  without  sweetening. 

Oat  Water. =jj= 

Into  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  stir  a  single  handful  of 
fresh  oat  meal;  let  it  stand  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or 
longer.     Pour  off  the  water  as  it  is  wanted,  and  serve. 


lev 


FOODS  FOE  THE  SICK. 

When  persons  are  sick  with  fever,  or  other  acute  disease, 
there  is  usually  little  need  of  food — the  rule  being,  the  less 
the  better.  In  long-running  diseases,  however,  as  typhoid  or 
other  low  fevers,  and  in  all  convalescing  cases,  more  or  less 
food  should  be  given.  In  the  hygienic  dietary,  there  is  an 
abundant  variety  of  wholesome  articles  to  select  from. 
Cooked  fruits  and  fruit  juices,  dry  toast,  wheat  meal  crisps, 
the  hard  roll,  plain  boiled  rice,  oat  meal  mush,  baked  po- 


230  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IL 

tato, — these,  and  other  plain  dishes,  furnish  an  ample  variety 
of  the  more  substantial  foods.  Some  of  the  raw  fruits, 
also,  as  ripe  grapes,  strawberries,  peaches,  etc.,  are  very  ac- 
ceptable to  the  sick.  When  the  patient  is  too  weak  for 
much  solid  food,  and  yet  feels  the  need  of  "  a  little  some- 
thing," selections  may  be  made  from  the  following  recipes. 

Oat  Meal  Gruel.=§= 

Over  three  tablespoonf uls  of  fresh  oat  meal  pour  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water,  and  stir  it  well;  add  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
boiling  water,  and  stir  thoroughly.  Strain  through  a  tea- 
strainer,  or  a  coarse  cloth;  if  neither  is  at  hand,  let  the 
mixture  stand  two  or  three  minutes;  then  drain  off  all  the 
fluid  portion,  leaving  the  coarser  part  of  the  meal  in  the 
bottom  of  the  vessel.  Set  that  which  is  drained  off,  over 
the  fire,  and  stir  till  it  boils;  cook  ten  minutes,  and  skim. 

Oat  Meal  Gruel.  =}= 

Into  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  stir  a  tablespoonful  of 
oat  meal ;  boil  thirty  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  tea- 
strainer,  or  a  thin  cloth.  Or,  you  may  omit  the  straining, 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes  longer.  This  method  of  making 
takes  less  meal  than  in  the  preceding  recipe. 

Corn  Meal  Gruel.  =§= 

Stir  a  tablespoonful  of  corn  meal  into  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  and  cook  half  an  hour;  stir  frequently,  and  do  not 
scorch  the  gruel.  The  meal  should  be  rather  fine,  and  per- 
fectly fresh. 

Wheat  Meal  Gruel.  =§= 

Stir  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  wheat  meal  into  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes  without  scorching; 
add  the  meal  very  slowly,  to  avoid  lumping.  When  done, 
strain  through  a  thin  cloth,  or  fine  strainer. 


part  ii.]  foods  for  the  sick.  231 

Kice  Gruel. 
Look  over  and  wash  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  and  put 
it  into  a  quart  of  cold  water;  set  where  it  will  cook  moder- 
ately, and  stir  or  shake  at  intervals  to  keep  it  from  sticking. 
After  it  begins  to  boil,  cook  half  an  hour;  then  squeeze 
through  a  coarse  cloth,  or  strain  through  a  fine  colander, 
mashing  the  rice  with  a  spoon  to  press  out  the  fluid.  If 
wanted  on  short  notice,  start  the  rice  in  boiling  water,  and 
cook  till  soft ;  or  soak  it  beforehand,  and  boil  in  the  water 
used  for  soaking ,  it  will  cook  in  twenty  minutes. 

Bice  Mush.+ 
Cook  the  same  as  for  rice  gruel  (except  the  straining),  and 
serve  without  seasoning. 

Dry  Toast.+ 
Take  cold-water  loaf  bread,  or  leavened  Graham  bread, 
two  or  three  days  old,  and  slice  it  thin;  toast  slowly  to  an 
even  brown,  leaving  the  bread  free  from  moisture,  and  with 
no  burnt  edges.     It  should  be  eaten  dry. 

Potato  Soup.=§= 
Wash  and  pare  two  or  three  potatoes  of  medium  size; 
they  must  be  of  good  quality,  and  not  the  least  bit  sun- 
burnt; quarter,  or  cut  in  thick  pieces,  but  do  not  slice  them. 
Drop  into  a  pot  containing  one  quart  of  boiling  water, 
cover,  and  cook  fast  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  stirring  fre- 
quently to  break  up  the  lumps.  If  in  that  time  the  water 
has  thickened  sufficiently,  strain  through  a  fine  colander, 
and  serve  warm.  But  if  after  boiling  the  soup  should  be 
too  thin,  skim  out  the  lumps,  mash  fine,  and  return  to  the 
kettle;  boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  then  strain.  If 
wanted  on  short  notice,  slice  the  potatoes  as  thin  as  possible, 
and  boil  rapidly  twenty  minutes,  with  occasional  stirring. 
Then  strain,  and  serve. 


232  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD. 


Dried  Peach  Soup. 


Look  over,  trim,  and  wash  carefully  a  handful  or  two  of 
good  peaches  ;  then  put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  add 
enough  boiling  water  to  make  them  quite  juicy,  and  stew 
moderately  till  tender.  Remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as 
done.  If  there  is  not  sufficient  juice  at  the  last,  or  if  what 
there  is  looks  dark  and  tastes  strong,  add  a  little  boiling 
water.  If  the  soup  is  not  wanted  immediately,  set  the  fruit 
away  till  cold.  "When  ready  to  make,  take  a  cup  one-third 
full  of  cooked  peaches,  and  fill  it  with  the  juice;  put  this 
into  a  small  fruit-kettle  or  tin  basin,  and  set  it  on  the  stove. 
Then  add  nearly  as  much  boiling  water  as  there  is  juice; 
make  a  little  thickening  by  mixing  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk  or  water,  and  stir  it 
in.  After  the  soup  begins  to  boil,  cook  five  minutes  ;  then 
cool  to  about  blood  heat,  and  serve. 

FOODS  FOR  INFANTS. 

The  best  food  for  a  babe  is  its  mother's  milk,  provided 
she  is  in  good  health.  When  the  mother  can  not  nurse  her 
child,  the  best  substitute  is  a  healthy  wet-nurse.  If  the  lat- 
ter is  not  to  be  obtained,  take  the  milk  of  one  cow,  in 
healthy  condition  and  properly  fed;  avoid  that  of  an}?-  ani- 
mal fed  on  slops  or  swills,  as  it  is  not  only  injurious  to  the 
child,  but  actually  poisonous.  For  the  new-born  babe,  get 
if  possible  the  milk  of  afresh  cow;  and  at  all  times  let  the 
age  of  the  calf  correspond  very  nearly  to  that  of  the  child. 
The  milk  should  be  given  as  it  comes  from  the  cow  (the 
newer,  the  better),  undiluted  with  water,  and  without 
sweetening;  if  cold,  it  must  be  warmed  to  blood  heat. 
When  cow's  milk  can  not  be  had,  goat's  will  answer,  pro- 
vided the  animal  is  well  fed,  and  healthy.  If  the  infant 
takes  the  bottle,  always  have  two  on  hand,  so  that  one  can 
be  cleansed  and  sweetened,  while  the  other  is  filled.     The 


PART  II.]  FOODS   FOR    INFANTS.  233 

black  rubber  nipple  is  said  to  be  better  for  the  child  than 
the  white. 

If  milk  of  good  quality  can  not  be  secured,  then  make  a 
gruel  of  either  oat  or  wheat  meal;  the  grain  should  of 
course  be  the  very  best,  well  cleaned,  and  properly  ground. 
The  meal  too  must  be  fresh,  and  not  very  coarse;  prepare 
according  to  the  recipes  already  given,  only  make  the  gruel 
a  little  thinner,  and  cook  nearly  twice  as  long;  strain  care- 
fully. 

Never  give  to  a  babe  arrow-root,  white  crackers,  or  other 
concentrated  foods;  these  produce  constipation,  and  other 
derangements  of  the  alimentary  canal.  Most  of  the  arti- 
ficial foods  that  are  manufactured  especially  for  infants, 
tend  to  constipate.  When  there  is  that  condition  of  the 
bowels,  it  is  often  corrected  by  giving  a  little  of  the  juice 
of  ripe  cooked  fruits,  as  strawberries,  apples,  peaches, 
grapes,  etc.  ;  the  juice  of  cooked  dried  fruits,  as  apples, 
peaches  or  prunes,  may  also  be  given. 

As  the  child  grows,  and  the  bones  and  teeth  develop,  it  is 
a  good  plan,  where  it  is  "  raised  by  hand,"  to  give  milk  and 
oat  meal  gruel  mixed,  half  and  half.  Rice  cooked  soft  and 
mixed  with  milk,  is  also  good. 

Many  young  children  die  annually  in  our  cities  from 
being  fed  on  swill  milk,  and  the  milk  of  slop-fed  cows;  and 
many  persons  of  all  ages  die  from  eating  fruits  and  vege- 
tables that  are  stale.  Not  a  few  nursing  children  are  killed 
indirectly,  by  the  same  things;  the  mother  eats  the  stale 
material,  and  the  child  suffers  from  it.  Another  cause  of 
sickness  among  children,  is  overfeeding.  A  young  infant, 
whether  it  nurses  or  takes  the  bottle,  does  not  require  to 
be  fed  oftener  than  once  in  two  or  three  hours — some  say 
a  longer  time ;  and  after  it  is  three  months  old,  once  in  four 
or  five  hours  is  sufficient.  Nursing  frequently  through  the 
niirbt,  is  a  bad  practice,  both  for  mother  and  child.  It  is 
indeed  questionable  whether  a  babe  that  nurses  the  last 


234  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  II. 

thing  at  night,  really  needs  anything  more  until  morning. 
The  truth  is,  more  children  die  from  overfeeding,  than  from 
defective  nutrition. 

PRESERVING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  may  be  preserved  hygienically  by 
drying,  by  refrigeration,  and  by  canning;  and  recently,  a 
process  which  may  be  called  evaporation,  has  been  applied 
to  fruit  juice  in  the  making  of  jelly. 

Drying  Fruits. 

In  the  drying  of  fruits,  much  of  their  fine  flavor  escapes 
by  evaporation;  and  that  method  is  of  course  the  best, 
which,  while  it  most  facilitates  the  drying  process,  is  least 
wasteful  of  their  natural  juices.  What  is  known  as  "  Bos- 
well's  Heater  and  Drier,"  is  constructed  with  this  idea  in 
view;  and  the  fruit  dried  in  it  is  said  to  be  almost  as  fine  in 
flavor  as  when  gathered  from  the  tree.  The  "  Alden"  proc- 
ess is  also  recommended;  it  certainly  does  its  work  rapidly, 
and  the  apples  look  well.  But  it  has  been  questioned 
whether  their  flavor  is  perfectly  preserved  ;  whether  in 
slicing  them  so  exceedingly  thin,  a  large  per  cent,  of  it  may 
not  be  lost  by  evaporation,  and  the  fruit  rendered  insipid. 
On  the  other  hand,  that  dried  wholly  in  the  sunshine  is 
cured  so  slowly,  and  is  so  much  exposed  to  currents  of  air, 
that  it  loses  by  long-continued  evaporation,  much  of  its 
nutritive  value.  A  good  plan  with  soft,  juicy  fruit,  is  to  set 
it  into  a  hot  oven,  and  heat  through  before  putting  it  in  the 
sunshine.  This  starts  the  juice,  and  a  film  forms  on  the 
surface  of  it,  which  holds  in  solution  the  nutrient  particles 
until  they  are  absorbed  in  the  more  solid  meshes  of  the 
fruit.  Peaches  dried  in  this  way  are  very  rich,  and  fine- 
flavored. 

Small  fruits,  as  berries,  cherries,  etc.,  are  good  dried  in 
the  following  way:  Put  them  on  old  plates  or  earthen  pie- 


PART  II.]  PRESERVING    FRUITS    AND    VEGETABLES.  235 

pans,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over,  and  set  in  the  oven  till 
fairly  heated  through;  then  finish  around  the  stove,  or  on 
shelves  above  it.  As  the  drying  proceeds,  stir  occasionally, 
and  let  the  juices  that  have  escaped  be  reabsorbed.  If 
there  is  a  hot  sun,  the  fruit  after  it  is  heated  in  the  oven, 
may  be  set  outside  to  dry  under  fine  wire  screens,  which 
will  keep  flies  and  other  insects  from  it.  All  fruit  that  is 
dried  in  the  open  air,  should  be  thoroughly  heated  before  it 
is  packed  away  ;  this  will  prevent  it  from  getting  wormy. 
\pples  that  are  tart  enough  to  cook  to  pieces  and  make  a 
smooth  sauce,  may  be  stewed  in  as  little  water  as  possible, 
then  spread  on  plates,  and  dried  in  an  oven  or  dry-house. 
When  soaked,  make  into  pies,  or  use  for  sauce.  Peaches 
and  other  pulpy  fruits,  can  be  dried  in  the  same  way. 

None  but  the  best  quality  of  fruit  should  be  reserved  for 
drying,  and  it  should  not  be  overripe. 

Drying  Vegetables. 

Some  vegetables  are  very  good  gathered  while  green,  and 
dried  for  winter  use;  among  these  are  garden  peas,  Lima 
beans,  and  other  shell  beans.  They  must  be  gathered  and 
dried  before  they  begin  to  ripen — or  when  they  are  just 
right  for  the  table.  Peas  especially,  if  too  ripe,  lose  their 
sweetness  and  fine  flavor. 

Green  corn  is  excellent  dried  as  follows :  Take  ears  that 
are  young  and  tender,  either  the  evergreen,  or  the  white  (or 
yellow)  flint;  boil  ten  minutes,  or  until  the  milk  sets;  then 
split  the  grains  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  scrape  out  the  corn, 
leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob.  Spread  it  on  plates,  and  dry, 
either  in  an  oven  or  dry-house,  or  in  the  hot  sun;  stir  well 
from  time  to  time.  Be  sure  it  does  not  sour  in  the  process; 
when  dried  in  the  sun,  a  good  plan  is  to  set  the  corn, 
already  scraped  out,  into  a  pretty  hot  oven,  and  scald  or 
"  cook "  it  before  finishing  out  of  doors.  To  prevent  its 
getting  wormy,  heat  thoroughly  before  putting  it  away;  this 


236  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

will  kill  the  ova,  that  may  have  been  deposited  by  flies.  Im- 
mediately after  heating,  put  it  where  the  flies  can  not  touch 
it.  You  can  tie  it  securely  in  paper  bags,  and  hang  in  a  dry, 
dark  place;  or  you  may  put  it  into  stone  jars,  filling  them 
within  an  inch  of  the  top,  and  then  tie  over  each  a  paper  or 
cloth,  free  from  holes,  and  tightly  stretched. 

Corn  may  also  be  prepared  for  drying  in  this  way:  With 
a  thin  sharp  knife  shave  off  the  tip  ends  of  the  grain,  and 
throw  them  away;  then  slice  very  thin,  until  three-fourths 
of  the  corn  is  removed  from  the  cob,  and  scrape  out 
the  remainder  with  a  dull  knife;  this  leaves  the  harsher 
part  of  the  hull  on  the  cob.  Put  the  corn  in  pans,  and  dry 
as  before. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  sometimes  dried  for  winter  use  as 
follows:  First  boil  them  in  very  little  water,  or  steam  until 
tender;  remove  the  skins  with  any  defects,  slice  rather  thin, 
and  dry  in  an  oven  or  dry-house. 

Pumpkins  are  dried  for  pies  in  winter,  in  the  following 
manner:  Prepare  and  stew,  as  in  the  recipe  heretofore  given, 
until  a  smooth  sauce  is  made;  it  should  be  pretty  dry  when 
done.  Then  spread  evenly  in  rather  a  thin  sheet,  on  a 
smooth  board.  Dry  before  a  fire,  or  in  the  hot  sun.  It 
must  be  soaked  over  night  in  a  little  water,  before  using. 
Pumpkins  of  fine  texture  and  thoroughly  ripe,  are  some- 
times simply  cut  in  slices,  and  dried  the  same  as  apples; 
when  you  make  into  pies,  soak  the  dried  pieces  over  night 
in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them;  then  mash  fine  before 
mixing  the  batter. 

EVAPORATING   PrUIT    JUICES. 

This  is  a  new  process,  but  one  that  deserves  the  attention 
of  hygienists.  If  by  rapidly  evaporating  the  more  watery 
portions,  we  can  preserve  the  juices  of  fruits  with  all  their 
delicate  flavors,  and  make  them  available  at  all  seasons  of 
the  year,  it  is  indeed  a  most  valuable  art,  and  one  that 


PART  II.]  PRESERVING    FRUITS   AND    VEGETABLES.  237 

should  be  better  understood.  The  following  extract,  clipped 
from  a  daily  paper  and  taken  from  the  New  York  Journal 
of  Commerce,  is  evidently  a  mere  fragment  of  an  article  on 
this  subject: 

"  As  the  juice  ran  fresh  from  the  apples,  before  it  could 
begin  to  ferment,  it  was  conducted  in  a  pipe  to  a  large  open 
evaporating-pan  over  a  rude  brick  furnace.  The  cider 
flowed  steadily  in  a  stream  into  one  end  of  the  pan,  which 
was  some  ten  or  twelve  feet  long,  meandering  through  the 
compartments ;  it  boiled  as  it  progressed,  and  foamed  up 
at  the  further  end,  where  it  was  drawn  off  and  poured  into 
clean  new  wooden  tubs  and  pails  (made  on  the  spot),  and 
became  a  clear,  solid  claret-colored  jelly,  without  addition 
of  sugar  or  anything  else.  It  is  a  method  of  utilizing  cider, 
reducing  it  to  a  form  which  well  repays  long  transportation 
to  market;  and  it  adds  to  the  city  table  a  luxury  fully  equal 
to  expensive  jellies,  at  a  very  low  price.  The  jelly  is  sold 
at  the  factory  for  about  a  dollar  a  gallon  in  the  package. 
This  is  a  simpler,  cheaper,  and  more  remunerative,  as  well 
as  more  useful  product  of  apples,  than  cider  brandy;  and  I 
marvel  now  at  the  orchards  loaded  with  fruit,  which  I  saw 
two  years  ago,  and  this  year  in  New  Hampshire,  rotting 
ungathered  because  it  would  not  pay  to  pick  them.  They 
told  me  at  this  cider-mill,  that  they  were  paying  eight  to 
twelve  cents  a  bushel  for  apples  delivered  at  the  mill.  The 
most  accessible  railway  station  is  eighteen  miles  distant,  at 
Shelbume  Falls,  in  Massachusetts.  I  recommend  apple 
jelly,  made  without  sugar  or  gelatine,  as  a  capital  addition 
to  good  mutton." 

A  process  similar  to  this,  if  not  identical  with  it,  is  that 
already  described  in  the  making  of  an  article  called  "Po- 
marius,"  under  the  head  of  Fruits  and  Fruit  Juices.  By 
this  process  it  would  seem  that  making  fruit  jellies  without 
the  addition  of  sugar,  is  not  only  possible,  but  (in  the  near 
future  certainly)  practicable. 


238  health  in  the  household.  [paet  ii. 

Refrigeration. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  can  be  kept  for  a  long  time  in  a 
room  attached  to  an  ice-house,  where  the  temperature  will 
not  rise  above  or  fall  below  forty  degrees,  Fahrenheit.  The 
passage  leading  to  it  should  have  two  or  more  doors  to  ex- 
clude the  external  air. 

But  the  method  of  preserving  which  is  most  resorted  to, 
because  it  is  within  the  reach  of  all,  is  that  of  sealing  in 
air-tight  jars  or  cans.  Fruits,  vegetables,  and  even  meats, 
are  perfectly  kept  in  this  way. 


CANNING  FRUITS,  Etc.+ 

By  this  process,  fruits  of  all  kinds  may  be  preserved 
with  or  without  sugar,  by  simply  stewing  them,  and  sealing, 
boiling  hot,  in  tin  or  glass  cans  from  which  the  air  has  been 
excluded.  They  will  keep  a  year  in  good  condition,  losing 
very  little  of  their  fine  flavor. 

General  Directions. 

A  day  or  two  before  you  commence  canning  for  the  sea- 
son, look  over  all  the  jars,*  covers,  etc.,  and  see  that  they 
are  clean  and  in  order.  If  the  kettles,  colander,  funnel  and 
other  utensils  have  given  out,  they  must  be  replaced  with 
new  ones.  And  if  some  of  the  jars  require  sealing-wax, 
have  that  on  hand,  together  with  a  supply  of  clean  tin 
covers,  and  the  wires  that  hold  them  in  place.  If  bottles 
are  to  be  used,  look  to  the  corks;  see  that  they  fit  well,  and 
are  all  clean.  Select  kettles  that  are  the  right  size  for  your 
stove,  and  well  made;  the  porcelain-lined  are  best;  those 
made  of  granitized  iron  will  answer,  though  they  are  so 
thin  that  the  fruit  is  apt  to  scorch  in  the  bottom.  Lids 
made  of  this  material  are  better  than  tin,  as  they  do  not 


*  The  terms,  "can,"  and  "jar,"  are  used  interchangeably. 


PART  II.]  CANNING   FRUITS,  ETC.  239 

corrode.  You  will  need  a  funnel  and  dipper  of  the  same 
ware;  or  the  latter  may  be  porcelain. 

Do  not  use  cans  made  of  tin;  acid  fruits  corrode  it,  and 
are  poisoned  by  it.  Besides,  much  of  the  tin  now  made 
contains  large  quantities  of  lead;  and  this  being  easily  cor- 
roded is  doubly  poisonous.  Even  stone  ware  is  not  to  be 
relied  on;  its  surface  is  usually  full  of  small  holes,  render- 
ing it  porous;  and  a  great  deal  of  this  ware  is  lined  with 
lead-glaze,  rendering  its  use  dangerous.  Good  glass  jars 
are  the  best,  and  in  the  end  the  cheapest;  the  "Mason," 
the  "  Hero,"  and  the  "  Gem,"  have  all  been  used;  the  Mason 
especially,  has  been  a  great  favorite;  but  some  of  recent 
make  are  not  to  be  compared  with  the  older  jars;  the  glass 
is  thin  and  poor,  and  some  of  the  covers  fit  badly,  owing  to 
the  defective  finish  of  the  cans. 

The  best  material  for  covers,  as  well  as  jars,  is  glass;  if 
they  are  made  of  zinc,  they  should  .be  porcelain-lined. 
The  jars,  to  be  well  made,  should  be  of  good  glass,  uniform 
in  thickness,  and  of  sufficient  weight;  the  covers  also  should 
be  perfectly  fitted.  When  the  fruit  is  emptied  from  the 
cans,  the  covers  and  rubbers  should  be  carefully  washed, 
dried,  and  put  away  for  another  season;  the  rubbers  ought 
not  to  stand  in  very  hot  water,  as  it  spoils  them.  Zinc 
covers  that  have  been  used,  must  be  rubbed  with  sapolio 
and  water  till  clean  and  smooth,  and  then  thoroughly  rinsed 
and  dried.  Any  cans  to  which  covers  can  not  be  perfectly 
fitted,  should  be  set  aside;  you  can  sometimes  fill  them  for 
temporary  use,  in  case  you  run  short  of  good  ones.  If  tin 
cans  are  used,  the  fruit  should  all  be  emptied  out,  immedi- 
ately after  they  are  opened;  for  as  soon  as  the  air  reaches  the 
inside,  the  contents  will  be  more  or  less  affected  by  the  metaL 

In  preparing  for  canning  put  the  fruit  over  the  fire,  and 
while  it  is  coming  to  a  boil  bring  the  jars,  covers,  rubbers, 
dipper,  funnel,  etc.,  and  lay  them  on  the  table;  bring  also 
a  wooden  paddle,  silver  spoon,  small  dish  for  emptyings, 


240  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

cloths  for  drying,  and  a  wide  tin  basin  to  set  the  cans  in 
while  filling.  Place  all  on  a  table  near  the  stove,  and  have 
plenty  of  hot  water  ready. 

The  following  method  of  filling  is  a  good  one,  and  it  has 
the  merit  of  breaking  no  jars:  When  the  fruit  is  sufficiently 
cooked,  take  the  wide  tin  basin,  set  it  as  near  the  stove  as 
possible  (either  on  the  stove-hearth,  or  on  a  table  near  at 
hand),  and  fill  it,  say  one-third  full  of  very  hot,  but  not 
boiling  water;  too  hot  to  hold  the  hand  in.  Then  introduce 
a  can  sidewise,  roll  it  over-  and  over  quickly  in  the  water, 
and  set  it  right  side  up  in  the  basin,  with  the  water  in  and 
around  it.  Introduce  another  can  in  the  same  way,  and 
continue  the  process  till  the  bottom  of  the  basin  is  nearly 
covered;  it  will  hold  perhaps  four  jars.  Drop  the  covers 
also  into  a  basin  of  very  hot  water.  Now,  the  kettle  of 
boiling  fruit  being  at  hand,  turn  down  one  of  the  jars  in 
the  basin  of  hot  water,  roll  it  over  quickly,  empty  it,  and 
adjust  the  funnel,  which  should  be  small  enough  to  fit  into 
its  mouth.  Then  with  a  dipper  pour  in,  rather  slowly  at 
first,  a  little  of  the  syrup;  follow  with  the  fruit,  until  you 
have  filled  the  jar;  see  if  there  are  any  air-bubbles  entan- 
gled in  the  meshes  of  the  fruit.  If  so,  dip  the  silver  spoon 
into  the  hot  mass  in  the  kettle,  and  then  introduce  it  down 
the  sides  of  the  jar  and  through  its  contents,  in  such  a 
manner  as  to  let  out  the  air;  if  when  the  latter  escapes  the 
fruit  has  settled  preceptibly,  add  a  little  juice,  until  the  jar 
is  almost  brimming.  This  done,  wipe  the  moisture  from 
the  top  of  the  can,  and  place  the  elastic  on  smoothly;  then 
lift  a  cover  from  the  basin  of  hot  water  near  by,  dry  it,  and 
screw  it  on  till  it  clasps  the  rubber  tightly  all  around.  Do 
all  this  in  less  time  than  it  takes  to  tell  it — or  at  any  rate, 
as  quickly  as  possible.  If  there  are  any  doubts  about  the 
jar  being  air-tight,  turn  it  upside  down,  and  see  if  bubbles 
rise  through  the  fruit.  If  the  rubbers  are  old  and  stiff,  dip 
them  into  hot  water  and  then  out,  wiping  dry  before  using. 


PART  n.  I  CANNING    FRUITS,  ETC.  241 

Xow  set  the  jar  to  one  side,  and  proceed  to  fill  another;  if 
you  have  an  assistant,  let  her  adjust  the  rubber  and  cover 
while  you  fill  the  next.  After  the  jars  are  cool  enough  to 
handle,  screw  the  tops  again;  and  when  fully  cold,  give  them 
another  twist.  Indeed,  the  best  plan  is  to  let  them  stand 
at  least  twenty-four  hours,  and  tighten  from  time  to  time. 
Last  of  all,  wipe  them  clean  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  set 
away  in  a  dark  closet;  or  if  you  have  no  dark  place,  wrap 
each  can  in  brown  paper,  to  exclude  the  light;  the  cooler 
the  place  the  better,  provided  the  fruit  does  not  freeze. 
Examine  it  carefully,  every  few  days  for  the  first  two  or 
three  wreeks,  and  occasionally  afterward,  to  see  if  it  is 
keeping  well.  If  mould  appears,  the  can  should  be  opened 
and  the  fruit  used,  care  being  taken  to  remove  the  mouldy 
portion. 

A  plan  that  is  said  to  be  perfect  (and  it  is  easier,  certain- 
ly, than  the  one  just  given),  is  the  following  :  Wring  a  loose 
crash  towel  out  of  warm  or  tepid  water,  leaving  it  pretty 
wet ;  fold  it  several  thicknesses,  and  either  lay  it  in  the 
bottom  of  an  empty  basin,  or  on  the  corner  of  the  table, 
close  to  the  fruit-kettle.  Place  the  jar  on  the  folded  towel, 
adjust  the  funnel  to  its  mouth,  and  then  put  into  the  can  a 
long  silver  spoon  which  has  just  been  dipped  into  tepid 
water  ;  proceed  to  fill  with  the  fruit,  pouring  it  in  slowly  at 
first.  When  the  jar  is  full  wipe  off  the  moisture,  adjust  the 
rubber,  and  then  put  on  the  cover  as  before.  Some  fill 
without  the  spoon,  relying  simply  on  the  wet  towel ;  but  it 
is  safer  to  use  the  former,  as  it  is  a  good  medium  for  con-r 
ducting  and  diffusing  the  heat.  An  iron  spoon  would  do 
just  as  well,  if  it  did  not  discolor  the  fruit ;  some  use  a  wire 
or  knitting-needle. 

A  very  good  plan  when  one  has  the  proper  appliances,  is 
to  fill  the  cans  with  fruit,  adding  water  to  make  it  suffi- 
ciently juicy  ;  then  heat  with  steam  to  thoroughly  expel  the 
aii\  and  seal. 


242  health  in  the  household.  [paet  ii. 

Sealing  with  Wax. 

Fruit  can  be  kept  perfectly  in  glass  jars,  sealed  with  wax; 
the  latter  is  usually  made  by  melting  rosin  with  a  little 
bees-wax,  and  a  very  little  beef  tallow.  The  following  are 
said  to  be  good  proportions  :  One  pound  rosin,  two  ounces 
bees-wax,  and  one  and  a  half  ounces  tallow,  melted  to- 
gether. When  the  cans  are  ready  to  fill,  melt  the  wax,  but 
do  not  heat  it  very  hot ;  dip  in  the  fruit,  wipe  the  moisture 
from  the  top  of  each  jar,  and  put  on  the  cover  ;  then  slip  a 
wire  (bent  for  the  purpose)  over  the  top  to  keep  the  cover 
in  place,  and  pour  in  enough  wax  to  fill  the  groove  even 
full. 

If  bottles  are  used,  or  jars  with  small  mouths,  put  in  well- 
fitting  corks  softened  by  dipping  into  hot  water ;  force 
them  down  securely,  and  cover  well  with  wax  ;  if  air-bub- 
bles form  in  it  puncture  them,  and  fill  the  cavities  with 
more  wax.  You  will  need  to  inspect  the  tops  closely,  until 
the  wax  is  nearly  or  quite  cold. 

Special  Directions. 

Under  the  head  of  "  Fruits  and  Fruit  Juices,"  the  reader 
will  find  details  for  preparing  fruits  of  all  kinds,  either  for 
stewing  or  canning.  There  is  also  a  table  given,  showing 
the  relative  proportions,  by  measurement,  of  sugar  (where 
any  is  used),  cold  water,  and  fruit — the  latter  as  prepared 
for  the  kettle.  By  a  "  cup  "  is  meant  half  a  pint.  The  pro- 
portions given  may  not  suit  all  tastes,  nor  all  latitudes,  as 
fruits  vary  with  the  climate^  both  in  juiciness  and  sweet- 
ness. However,  the  rules  here  given  will  serve  at  least  as  a 
guide  ;  and  it  will  be  an  easy  matter  to  adjust  the  quanti- 
ties after  one  or  two  trials.  Remember  always  to  heat  or 
stew  the  fruit  slowly. 

For  convenient  reference— serviceable  to  those  who  al- 
ready understand  the  details  of  putting  up  fruit — the  fol- 
lowing bare  outline  is  given  : 


PART  II.]  CANNING    FRUITS,  ETC.  243 

Apples. — Take  for  canning,  apples  that  have  a  fine  sub- 
acid flavor  ;  then  quarter  and  core,  or  cut  into  eighths,  add 
cold  water  enough  to  make  them  sufficiently  juicy,  and  cook 
slowly  till  soft ;  the  pieces  should  not  be  broken.  Prepare 
sweet  apples  and  quinces  in  the  same  way,  except  that  you 
start  the  quinces  first,  half  cooking  them  before  the  apples 
are  added.     Can  in  glass. 

Peaches. — Select  fine  fruit,  not  too  ripe  ;  it  should  be 
firm  to  the  touch.  Pare  thin,  remove  the  pits  provided 
the  peaches  are  not  clingstones,  and  allow  about  one  quart 
of  cold  water  (less  for  very  juicy  fruit)  to  six  quarts  of 
peaches,  prepared  and  cut ;  bring  slowly  to  a  boil  and  can. 
Rosy  "clings"  canned  with  the  stones  in,  make  the  best 
sauce. 

Pears. — The  Bartlett  or  other  tart  variety  is  best  for  can- 
ning ;  remove  the  paring  with  a  very  thin  knife,  cut  in 
halves,  and  take  out  the  cores.  Then  add  about  one  quart 
cold  water  to  seven  quarts  of  cut  fruit,  bring  slowly  to  a 
boil,  and  set  bacJi  where  the  kettle  will  simmer  gently, 
nearly  or  quite  an  hour ;  then  dip  into  cans.  Keep  the 
pieces  as  whole  as  possible. 

Plums. — For  damsons,  allow  five  pints  cold  water  to  five 
quarts  of  fruit ;  cook  slowly,  and  when  they  come  to  a  boil, 
skim ;  then  add  two  cups  of  sugar,  cook  slowly  about  ten 
minutes,  and  put  into  glass  cans. 

Green  or  blue  gages  require  less  water  and  sugar  than 
the  damsons,  and  scarcely  any  cooking ;  three  pints  water 
and  one  cup  of  sugar  for  six  quarts  of  fruit,  would  be 
enough.  The  plums  must  be  rather  hard  ;  if  beginning  to 
soften,  they  will  fall  to  pieces. 

Grapes. — Take  about  one-third  as  much  cold  water  as  there 
are  grapes  picked  from  the  stems — or  two  quarts  water  to 
six  quarts  fruit ;  bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  cook  or 
simmer  five  to  eight  minutes  ;  then  can. 

Grape  Juice. — Add  one-third  as  much  cold  water  as  you 
17  J 


244  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

iiave  of  stripped  grapes ;  for  an  ordinary  kettle,  take  two 
quarts  water  and  six  quarts  fruit.  Bring  slowly  to  a  boil, 
then  skim,  and  strain  through  a  cheese-cloth  ;  or  an  ordi- 
nary flour-sack  will  answer.  Or  you  may  rub  as  much  of 
the  pulp  as  possible  through  an  earthen  (or  granitized  iron) 
colander,  if  you  have  one  ;  then  squeeze  the  remainder 
through  a  cloth.  Heat  again  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  put  into 
glass  cans  or  bottles.  Much  cooking  or  a  hot  fire,  darkens 
the  juice. 

Strawberries. — Wash  quickly  (in  a  colander),  if  the  berries 
require  it ;  remove  the  caps,  and  stew  slowly,  allowing  one 
quart  of  cold  water  to  five  quarts  of  fruit,  ready  for  the 
kettle.  Take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  then  add  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar — less,  if  the  berries  are  pretty  ripe ; 
and  some  use  none  at  all.  Simmer  slowly  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes  ;  then  put  the  fruit  into  glass  cans,  carefully  remove 
the  air-bubbles  by  passing  a  silver  spoon  through  the  heated 
mass,  and  seal  securely  with  wax.  Further  directions  for 
canning  this  fruit  will  be  given  on  another  page. 

Strawberry  Juice. — Prepare  the  fruit,  add  the  water  as 
above,  and  heat  to  a  boil ;  then  skim,  and  cook  slowly  five 
to  eight  minutes.  Strain  through  a  coarse  cloth,  add  the 
sugar,  and  heat  again  to  boiling.  Put  the  juice  into  cans 
or  bottles,  and  seal. 

Currants. — Wash  in  a  colander,  strip  the  currants  from 
the  stems,  and  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water  to  five  quarts 
of  the  prepared  fruit.  Heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  stir 
in  a  cup  of  sugar  ;  heat  again  rather  slowly,  till  the  mass  is 
boiling  hot,  and  then  can  in  glass. 

Currant  Juice. — Prepare  and  stew  the  same  as  the  last 
(three  quarts  water  to  five  quarts  stripped  currants),  and 
after  skimming  strain  through  a  cloth  ;  then  add  a  cup  of 
sugar,  heat  again  to  boiling,  not  too  rapidly,  and  put  into 
glass  cans  or  bottles. 

Raspberries. — For  black  caps,    allow   five   pints   of  cold 


PART  H.]  CANNING   FRUITS,  ETC.  245 

water  to  five  quarts  of  fruit ;  heat  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  add 
half  a  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  slowly  five  minutes,  and  dip 
into  glass  cans. 

Red  raspberries  require  less  water,  and  a  little  more  sugar; 
two  quarts  of  water  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  to 
five  quarts  of  the  fruit. 

Raspberries  and  Currants. — Take  one  quart  of  currants 
stripped  from  the  stems,  and  four  quarts  of  black  caps  ;  add 
five  pints  of  cold  water,  and  heat  to  a  boil.  Skim,  add  half 
a  cup  of  sugar,  and  cook  slowly  five  minutes  ;  then  can  in 
glass. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Juice. — Prepare  as  above,  except 
to  strain  through  a  cloth  before  adding  the  sugar ;  then 
heat  to  a  boil,  and  seal  in  glass  cans  or  bottles. 

Blackberries. — To  five  quarts  of  berries  add  three  pints 
cold  water,  and  bring  to  a  boil  ;  then  skim,  stir  in  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  heat  again  slowly,  and  put  into 
glass  cans. 

Blackberry  Juice. — Prepare  as  in  the  last,  straining 
through  a  cloth  before  the  sugar  is  added  ;  then  heat  again 
to  boiling,  and  seal  in  glass  cans  or  bottles. 

Gooseberries. — Select  berries  that  are  turning  red,  but 
not  fully  ripe  ;  wash  well,  remove  the  stems  and  blossoms, 
and  allow  two  quarts  of  cold  water  to  six  quarts  of  fruit. 
Heat  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  add  two  cups  of  sugar  ;  cook 
slowly  five  to  eight  minutes,  then  dip  into  glass  cans  and 
seal. 

Gooseberry  Juice. — Never  mind  the  stems  and  blossoms  ; 
wash  well,  and  stew  the  same  as  the  last,  except  that  you 
strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  or  colander  before  the  sugar 
is  added  ;  then  heat  again  to  boiling,  and  fill  the  jars  ; 
these  must  be  glass.  Or — a  better  way — you  may  sweeten 
and  can  the  berries  if  you  like,  and  strain  when  they  are 
opened  ;  you  can  then  press  them  through  an  ordinary  tin 
colander,  as  the  cold  fruit  does  not  corrode  it. 


246  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

May  Cherries. — Wash  the  cherries  in  a  colander,  drain 
well,  and  stew,  rejecting  any  that  are  decayed  or  wormy. 
If  you  want  the  fruit  for  temporary  use,  you  may  leave  in 
the  seeds ;  then,  to  five  quarts  of  stemmed  cherries  allow 
three  pints  of  cold  water,  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar. 
If  the  fruit  is  very  juicy  take  less  water  by  about  one-third. 
Or  if  intended  for  winter  use,  remove  the  seeds,  and  take 
three  pints  of  water  to  five  quarts  of  seeded  cherries  ;  bring 
slowly  to  a  boil,  and  skim  if  necessary.  Add  one  full  cup 
of  sugar,  and  as  soon  as  the  mass  is  thoroughly  heated 
seal  in  glass  cans.  Too  much  cooking  destroys  the  flavor 
of  the  cherries. 

Morello  Cherries. — Wash,  stem,  and  look  over  carefully, 
leaving  in  the  seeds  ;  the  knotty  cherries  may  be  pitted,  and 
either  canned  separately  or  stewed  for  sauce.  To  five 
quarts  of  stemmed  fruit  allow  two  quarts  of  cold  water ; 
then  bring  to  a  boil,  and  skim.  Stir  in  one  cup  of  sugar, 
heat  again  to  boiling,  and  fill  the  cans  ;  these  must  be  glass. 
If  put  up  for  pies,  allow  two  quarts  of  water  to  five  quarts 
of  seeded  cherries,  and  add  two  heaping  cups  of  sugar. 

Cranberries. — Pick  out  the  very  soft  berries,  and  all  that 
are  affected  with  "dry  rot."  After  washing,  allow  three 
pints  of  cold  water  to  two  quarts  of  fruit.  Stew  very 
slowly  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  skimming  well ;  then  add 
one  cup  of  sugar,  cook  a  moment  longer,  and  put  into  glass 
cans.  When  you  open,  strain  through  a  colander  to  remove 
the  skins.  You  may  strain  before  sealing,  if  you  like  ;  but 
in  this  case  use  an  earthen  colander,  or  a  coarse  cloth  ;  the 
hot  juice  will  corrode  tin.  If  the  berries  are  very  ripe, 
allow  a  little  more  water,  and  less  sugar. 

Strawberries. — How  best  to  Can. 

Strawberries  are  thought  to  be  more  difficult  to  keep 
when  canned  than  almost  any  other  fruit ;  and  it  has  puz- 
zled many  to  understand  just  why  they  should   give   so 


PART  II.]  CANNING    FRUITS,  ETC.  247 

much  trouble.  It  is  believed,  however,  that  the  mystery  is 
at  last  solved  ;  and  that  the  whole  difficulty — after  reason- 
able care  in  excluding  the  air-bubbles — comes  from  the  fact 
that  the  berries  (in  the  cans  that  spoil)  rise  above  the  juice 
which  should  cover  them,  and  begin  to  mould  in  consequence 
of  the  small  particles  of  air  confined  in  their  meshes.  The 
proper  thing  to  do  in  this  case  is  to  keep  watch  of  the  cans, 
and  as  the  fruit  rises  shake  it  down  into  the  liquid  contents 
below  ;  in  other  words,  saturate  the  berries  with  the  juice, 
until  they  sink  to  the  bottom  by  their  own  weight  ;  then 
they  will  be  found  to  keep,  without  further  difficulty. 
Should  any  can  be  neglected  too  long,  and  mould  begin  to 
f omi  on  the  surface,  it  must  be  opened  at  once,  and  the  fruit 
used  before  it  is  further  affected. 

A  lady  who  cans  strawberries  every  year,  and  whose  au- 
thority must  be  heeded,  inasmuch  as  she  has  never  lost  a 
jar,  gives  the  following  directions,  founded  on  her  own  ex- 
perience : 

"  Have  good  sound  berries,  put  in  water  to  make  them 
quite  juicy,  and  when  they  begin  to  boil  skim  off  the  froth. 
Cook  a  few  minutes  over  a  moderate  fire,  till  the  mass  is 
thoroughly  heated  through  ;  and  keep  the  fruit  pushed 
down  under  the  hot  liquid.  Then  dip  into  glass  cans  (self- 
sealing)  which  you  have  rolled  over  and  over  in  very  hot 
water ;  let  out  the  air-bubbles  by  running  a  silver  spoon 
through  the  berries,  remove  any  froth  that  rises,  and  fill 
almost  to  the  brim.  Wipe  the  moisture  from  the  tops  of 
the  cans,  adjust  the  rubbers  (also  dry),  and  screw  on  the 
covers  ;  these  should  be  kept  in  a  warm  place  till  needed — 
though  a  quicker  way  is  to  dip  them  into  hot  water,  tak-? 
them  out,  and  dry  with  a  cloth  before  using.  I  generally 
leave  out  the  sugar,  as  I  like  the  berries  better  unsweetened  ; 
sometimes  I  sweeten  a  few  cans,  'just  for  company.'  As 
the  fruit  cools  screw  the  covers  again  ;  and  keep  up  this 
tightening  process  for  a  day  or  two  ;  then  set  the   cans 


248  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

away  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  If  after  a  short  time  the  berries 
rise  to  the  top — and  they  frequently  do — take  each  can  in 
your  hands  and  shake  it  gently,  moving  it  back  and  forward 
till  all  the  fruit  sinks  to  the  bottom,  or  low  enough  to  be  en- 
tirely covered  by  the  juice  ;  the  berries  will  not  rise  a  second 
time.  I  always  pursue  this  plan,  and  my  strawberries 
never  spoil." 

Tomatoes. — How   to  Can. 

Tomatoes  are  said  by  some  to  be  hard  to  keep.  That  the 
fault  is  in  the  management  and  not  in  the  tomatoes,  is 
shown  from  the  fact  that  some  persons  have  no  trouble 
with  them.  The  whole  difficulty  is  caused  by  the  retention 
of  air-bubbles  ;  these,  if  present,  can  be  detected  by  turning 
the  jar  upside  down  after  sealing,  when  the  bubbles  will 
rise  through  the  contents  up  to  the  surface.  If  you  will  care- 
fully expel  these  intruders  before  screwing  on  the  covers, 
the  tomatoes  will  keep  perfectly.  To  do  this,  proceed  as 
follows  :  If  the  tomatoes  are  pretty  ripe  they  will  be  quite 
soft  when  cooked,  and  the  confined  bubbles  of  air  will  be 
all  through  them.  As  soon  as  they  come  to  a  boil,  push 
down  the  top  ones,  so  that  all  may  be  thoroughly  scalded  ; 
then  fill  the  can,  pass  a  silver  spoon  through  the  hot  mass, 
moving  it  in  such  a  way  as  to  let  the  bubbles  escape  to  the  top  ; 
these  can  frequently  be  seen  through  the  glass,  down  the 
sides  of  the  jar.  When  you  feel  sure  that  they  are  all  let 
out,  pour  in  a  little  more  juice  if  it  is  needed  (the  can 
should  be  filled  almost  to  its  brim),  then  wipe  off  the  moist- 
ure, put  on  the  dry  rubber,  and  screw  down  the  cover. 
After  the  jars  have  partly  cooled,  give  the  covers  a  second 
twist,  then  turn  each  one  upside  down,  and  see  if  any  bub- 
bles ascend  ;  if  so,  it  must  be  opened,  the  tomatoes  heated 
again  to  boiling,  and  the  can^  refilled  in  the  same  careful 
manner. 

A  better  way,  however,  if  you  can  get  the  tomatoes,  is- 


FAUT  II.]  CANNING    FRUITS,  ETC.  249 

this:  Select  those  that  are  not  too  ripe — a  little  firm  to  the 
touch;  smooth,  round  ones  of  medium  size,  are  the  best. 
Peel  without  scalding,  as  it  makes  them  less  soft;  the  knife 
must  be  thin  and  sharp.  Put  them  into  the  kettle  whole — 
or  if  large,  cut  once  through  from  stem  to  blossom;  then 
heat  rather  slowly,  until  the  whole  mass  is  thoroughly  hot, 
and  boiling;  skim  if  there  is  need.  The  jars  being  in  order 
proceed  to  fill,  first  pouring  in  a  very  little  juice ;  then  lift 
out  the  tomatoes,  one  at  a  time,  and  when  the  can  is  almost 
filled  dip  in  the  juicy  portion,  at  the  same  time  introducing 
a  large  spoon,  and  firmly  pressing  down  the  tomatoes,  which 
will  send  the  air-bubbles  to  the  top.  When  no  more  juice 
can  be  added,  dry  the  moisture  from  the  can,  adjust  the 
rubber,  and  seal  as  before.  The  covers  must  be  tightened 
two  or  three  times;  once  after  the  jars  are  entirely  cold. 
With  these  precautions  the  tomatoes  ought  all  to  keep; 
though  it  is  generally  safe  to  apply  the  test,  that  of  invert- 
ing the  can  after  it  is  sealed,  and  cool  enough  to  handle. 
The  jars  must  be  set  in  a  closet  or  other  dark  place,  and  in- 
spected occasionally  the  first  few  weeks,  to  see  that  they  are 
all  in  order;  if  mould  begins  to  appear  the  can  must  be 
opened,  the  specks  of  mould  carefully  removed,  and  the 
tomatoes  used. 

Glass  cans  that  seal  with  wax,  are  thought  to  keep  toma- 
toes better  than  those  that  are  self-sealing;  owing  perhaps 
to  the  fact  that  the  latter  are  not  always  well  made.  Tin 
cans  are  good  to  exclude  the  air,  but  as  already  stated,  the 
acid  corrodes  the  metal  more  or  less,  and  the  oxide  of  tin 
is  formed.  For  this  reason  glass  is  always  preferable,  even 
for  tomatoes.  If  tin  is  used,  however,  it  should  be  of  the 
very  best  quality,  and  the  cans  opened  before  there  is  any 
decided  metallic  taste  imparted  to  their  contents.  Very  few 
brands  are  good  after  eight  or  ten  months.  When  the  tin 
is  poor,  the  acid  corrodes  it  in  a  short  time. 


250  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

To  Can  Vegetables. 

The  writer  has  had  no  experience  in  canning  vegetables, 
except  it  be  the  tomato.  It  is  said  that  the  difficulty  hither- 
to experienced  in  preserving  them,  is  due  to  not  cooking 
long  enough  to  expel  the  air;  that  beans,  peas,  corn,  etc.,  to 
keep  well,  should  be  cooked  till  ready  for  the  table,  before 
they  are  put  into  cans.  Good  tin  cans,  securely  soldered, 
will  no  doubt  preserve  vegetables  best;  though  a  lady  who 
has  tried  glass  jars,  sealed  with  wax,  has  had  no  trouble 
with  corn  and  tomatoes.     She  puts  them  up  as  follows: 

Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  put  them  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  place  over  a  moderate  fire.  Then  prepare  an 
equal  quantity  of  corn;  with  a  sharp  knife  shave  off  the 
tip  ends  of  the  grains,  and  throw  them  away;  then  slice 
thin,  cutting  off  nearly  all  the  corn,  and  scraping  out  at  the 
last,  leaving  the  coarser  part  of  the  hull  on  the  cob.  Put  it 
into  a  separate  kettle  and  cook  twenty  minutes,  or  until 
done.  Then  turn  the  corn  and  tomatoes  together,  heat  till 
they  are  boiling  hot,  and  dip  into  glass  cans;  seal  securely 
with  wax;  and  if  any  little  air-bubbles  form  in  it,  puncture 
them,  and  fill  with  more  wax.  When  quite  cold,  wrap  each 
can  in  brown  paper,  and  set  in  a  cool,  dark  closet. 

MISCELLANY. 

Storing  for  Winter  Use. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  handled  with  the  great- 
est care,  both  in  gathering  and  storing,  as  every  little  bruise 
leads  to  decay.  They  keep  best  in  an  apartment  that  is 
dry,  and  as  cool  as  it  can  be  without  freezing.  The  bin 
for  potatoes  should  not  only  be  dry  and  cool,  but  dark,  as 
they,  of  all  vegetables,  are  most  susceptible  to  light.  Pota- 
toes in  groceries  are  usually  strong  in  taste,  and  some  of 
them  green  in  color,  from  standing  near  a  door  or  window; 


PART  II.]  MISCELLANY.  251 

the}'  should  be  kept  in  a  dry,  dark  cellar  till  sold.  Sweet 
potatoes  are  very  susceptible  to  the  touch;  they  should  be 
handled  "  like  eggs,"  as  the  least  bruising  causes  them  to 
decay.  They  keep  best  in  dry  sand,  in  a  warm,  dry  place. 
The  store-room  should  be  well  ventilated,  and  the  apples, 
potatoes,  etc.,  thoroughly  aired,  rendering  them  free  from 
moisture,  before  they  are  put  away  in  bins  or  barrels  for 
winter. 

No  decaying  vegetables  or  fruits  should  be  tolerated  in 
cellars  or  store-rooms;  hundreds  of  cases  of  typhoid  fever, 
diphtheria,  etc.,  are  directly  traceable  to  neglect  in  this 
respect. 

Packing  Grapes. 

Take  the  late  grapes,  pick  them  carefully,  and  select 
bunches  that  are  as  perfect  as  possible,  with  the  fruit  un- 
broken. Put  them  in  a  cool  room,  spreading  in  layers  on 
shelves  ;  let  them  remain  two  weeks;  then  pack  in  barrels 
with  dry,  hard-wood  sawdust;  bran  will  answer.  Packed 
in  this  manner,  the  fruit  is  said  to  keep  well  through  the 
winter.  Of  native  grapes,  the  Delaware  is  thought  to  keep 
the  longest;  good  Catawbas  are  often  well  preserved  till 
Christmas.  After  packing,  they  should  be  put  in  a  cool, 
dry  place. 

Grapes  will  keep  in  good  condition  for  several  weeks,  by 
dipping  the  end  of  the  stem  of  perfect  bunches  into  melted 
sealing-wax,  then  wrapping  the  bunches  in  tissue  paper,  and 
laying  or  suspending  them  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  The  more 
paper  there  is  placed  between  them,  the  longer  they  will 
keep. 

The  directions  given  above  for  preserving  grapes,  are 
taken  nearly  verbatim  from  Dr.  Trail's  new  Cook-Book. 

To  Keep  Fruits  and  Vegetables. 

The  following  hints  on  keeping  fruits  and  vegetables,  are 
most  of  them  taken  from  the  Buckeye  Cookery : 


252  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  11* 

To  Keep  Turnips. — When  buried  deep  in  the  earth,  they 
will  keep  solid  till  March  or  April. 

To  Keep  Lemons.  —  Cover  with  cold  water,  changing  it 
every  week.     This  makes  them  more  juicy. 

Herbs  for  Flavoring. — Gather  on  a  dry  day,  just  before, 
or  while  they  are  in  blossom  ;  tie  in  bundles,  blossoms 
downward.  When  perfectly  dry  pick  off  the  leaves,  pound, 
sift  them  fine,  and  cork  up  tight  in  bottles. 

Keeping  Cabbages. — When  the  weather  becomes  frosty* 
cut  them  off  near  the  head,  and  carry  with  the  leaves  on, 
to  a  dry  cellar;  then  break  off  the  outer  ones,  pack  the  cab- 
bages into  a  tight  cask  or  box,  stems  upward,  and  when 
nearly  full  cover  with  the  loose  leaves;  secure  the  box  with 
a  lid,  against  rats.  A  better  way  on  the  farm,  is  to  dig  a 
shallow  trench,  long  enough  to  hold  the  cabbages,  placing 
them  two  deep.  Put  them  in,  heads  downward,  and  cover 
with  clean  earth  till  the  stalks  (which  must  be  upright)  are 
half  or  two-thirds  hidden.  The  cabbages  should  be  buried 
as  soon  as  pulled,  and  they  ought  to  keep  nicely  till  spring. 

To  Keep  Apples.  —  Apples  are  usually  kept  on  open 
shelves,  easily  accessible,  so  that  the  decaying  ones  may  be 
removed.  They  are  sometimes  packed  in  layers  of  dry 
sand,  care  being  taken  not  to  let  them  touch  each  other. 
When  they  begin  to  decay  pick  out  those  that  are  specked, 
and  stew;  then  put  into  self -sealing  fruit  cans,  and  use  later 
in  the  season.  Or  you  may  pack  in  saAvdust,  or  any  grain, 
as  oats,  barley,  etc.,  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each  other; 
or  if  the  fruit  is  fine,  wrap  each  apple  in  paper,  and  pack 
in  boxes. 

To  Keep  Grapes. — Suspend  from  the  ceiling  by  three 
cords,  a  strong  barrel  hoop,  from  which  grape  stems  are 
hung  by  means  of  wire  hooks  attached  to  the  small  end, 
the  other  being  sealed  with  hot  wax;  let  each  stem  be  free 
from  contact  with  its  neighbors.  The  imperfect  grapes 
must  be  removed,  and  the  room  must  be  free  from  frost; 


PART  II.  j  MISCELLANY.  253 

not  too  inoist,  and  yet  not  dry  enough  to  wither  them ;  a 
dry  cellar  will  answer.  The  simplest  way  to  keep  grapes  is 
to  place  them  in  drawers  holding  about  twenty-five  pounds 
each,  piling  these  one  above  another;  or  the  drawers  may 
be  fitted  into  racks.  The  grapes  must  be  mature  and  per- 
fect.    They  do  not  freeze  as  readily  as  apples. 

Packing  Vegetables.  —  For  present  use,  they  should  be 
laid  away  carefully  in  a  bin  with  a  close  lid  (hung  on 
hinges),  so  that  the  light  may  be  excluded.  To  keep  for  a 
longer  time,  the  best  plan  is  to  pull  them  on  a  dry  day,  cut 
off  the  tops,  and  trim  and  pack  in  clean  barrels  or  boxes ; 
place  in  layers,  with  fine,  clean  moss  between,  such  as  is  found 
in  abundance  in  the  woods.  The  moss  keeps  them  clean 
and  sufficiently  moist,  preventing  shriveling  of  the  roots  on 
the  one  hand,  and  absorbing  any  excess  of  dampness  on  the 
other.  When  moss  can  not  be  conveniently  obtained,  sand 
is  a  good  substitute,  but  is  more  difficult  to  handle,  and  the 
vegetables  do  not  come  out  of  it  so  clean  and  fresh.  The 
vaiieties  which  come  to  maturity  late  in  the  season  are 
easiest  to  keep,  and  retain  their  flavor  longest. 

Pure  Water. 

Water,  either  for  cooking  or  drinking,  should  be  soft  and 
pure.  Carbonate  of  lime,  and  other  inorganic  substances 
often  held  in  solution  in  it,  are  prolific  causes  of  chronic 
affections  of  the  kidneys,  and  also  of  acute  and  chronic 
diseases  in  the  alimentary  canal.  If  pure  water  can  not  be 
had  from  wells,  running  springs,  or  larger  sources,  rain  water 
can  be  caught  in  cisterns,  and  rendered  pure  by  means  of  a 
good  filter.  There  are  many  now  in  the  market,  these 
varying  in  price  and  quality.  The  "Pasteur"  is  very 
highly  recommended  ;  it  is  likewise  quite  expensive.  There 
are  also  other  good  ones  in  common  use. 

River  water  usually  contains  not  only  a  considerable  per 
cent,   of   vegetable    and    animal  matters,  but  more  or  less 


254  HEALTH    IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART   II. 

clay,  and  other  earthy  sediment.  These  substances  are 
always  detrimental  to  health  ;  and  if  we  value  this,  it  be- 
comes a  matter  of  paramount  importance  to  purify  the 
water  from  their  presence.  If  river  water  must  be  used 
we  can  at  least  get  rid  of  the  mud  by  carefully  filtering,  or 
by  boiling  and  settling.  Some  persons  imagine  that  because 
these  waters,  with  their  loads  of  impurities,  cause  laxness 
of  the  bowels,  they  are  therefore  healthful.  On  the  contrary, 
they  render  the  liver  and  skin  torpid,  causing  biliousness, 
and  not  unfrequently  headaches  ;  they  also  irritate  the  mu- 
cous surfaces  of  the  alimentary  canal,  causing  the  laxness 
in  question,  which  often  ends  in  chronic  diarrhea. 

Cooking  Utensils. 

All  fruits  and  very  many  vegetables  are  injured  by  cook- 
ing in  iron  vessels,  particularly  if  they  cook  sloivly  in  them. 
Even  tin  is  not  suitable  for  acid  fruits.  Brass  and  copper 
vessels  are  wholly  unfit  for  culinary  purposes.  The  por- 
celain-lined kettle,  well  made,  is  excellent ;  but  care  must 
"be  taken  not  to  let  it  get  dry  or  stand  too  near  the  fire,  lest 
the  enamel  crack  off.  The  granitized  iron  ware  is  good 
and  tolerably  durable  (though  rather  thin),  but  more  ex- 
pensive. 

There  have  of  late  years  been  patented  a  number  of  tin 
steamers,  each  furnished  with  a  set  of  chambers  for  cooking 
several  vegetables  at  the  same  time.  They  are  said  to  cook 
perfectly,  without  the  slightest  admixture  of  flavors.  Some 
of  these  are  coming  into  general  use,  and  will  receive  fur- 
ther notice. 

Loaf  bread,  pies,  and  many  other  articles  are  better 
cooked  in  an  atmosphere  that  is  confined  as  well  as  heated  ; 
with  an  ordinary  stove,  much  of  the  nutritive  value  of  foods 
is  lost  through  evaporation.  In  the  olden  times,  our 
mothers  baked  bread  and  pies  in  a  skillet — loaves,  in  a 
"  Dutch  oven  "  or  bake-kettle — which  was  placed  on  a  bed 


PART  II.  J  ZrflSCELLANY.  255 

of  coals  near  the  main  fire,  and  covered  with  a  lid  ;  the 
latter  had  a  deep  rirn  which  held  the  coals  on  top.  And 
such  bread  as  came  out  of  those  ovens !  so  sweet  and  good ! 
Then,  there  were  the  "  brick  ovens,"  which  are  still  used  by 
the  bakers  ;  they  held  fifteen  or  twenty  pies  and  several 
loaves  of  bread,  all  at  the  same  time.  Next  to  the  "  bake- 
kettles,"  these  ovens  baked  the  best  pies  and  the  sweetest 
bread  that  hungry  mortal  ever  ate.  But  every  housewife 
can  not  have  a  brick  oven  ;  and  so  we  are  ivaiting  for  some 
"  ingenious  Yankee "  to  invent  a  baking  apparatus  that 
shall  give  us  bread  equal  to  the  best.  Some  attempts  have 
been  made  in  this  direction  ;  but  as  yet,  the  article  invented 
has  been  too  expensive  and  too  clumsy  to  be  of  much  value. 
"We  need  something  that  we  can  look  into  and  see  how  the 
baking  is  progressing,  if  necessary  ;  besides,  one  does  not 
like  to  lift  two  or  three  bulky  things,  pull  them  apart,  close 
again,  set  back  in  the  oven,  and  then  get  burned  into  the 
bargain. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  utensils,  large  and  small, 
that  are  convenient  to  have  in  the  kitchen  ;  several  of  them 
are  named  and  described  in  the  Buckeye  Cookery : 

Apple-Parer. — A  small  machine  for  paring  apples  ;  costs 
less  than  a  dollar,  and  rarely  gets  out  of  order. 

Apple-Coeee. — A  tin  tube,  tapering  slightly  from  one  end 
to  the  other  ;  costs  only  a  few  cents. 

C ax-Opener. — A  stout,  short  knife,  very  convenient  for 
opening  tin  cans  ;  quite  inexpensive. 

Cream-Whtpper. — A  small  syringe,  having  the  bottom  per- 
forated with  holes,  through  which  the  cream  is  forced  back 
and  forth  until  it  becomes  a  froth.     Costs  twenty-five  cents. 

Gravt-Straenter. — Made  of  gauze  wire,  and  can  be  used 
for  other  fluids  than  gravy. 

Tea-Strainer. — A  small  cup  with  a  finely-perforated  bot- 
tom ;  useful  to  strain  gruels  and  other  liquids. 

Wire  Basket. — A  basket  of  tinned  wire,  which  may  be 


256  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  II. 

lowered  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Yery  convenient  for 
scalding  tomatoes. 

Steaming  Kettle. — A  small  pan  with  a  perforated  bottom, 
lowered  its  full  length  into  a  deep  kettle.  Used  to  steam 
vegetables,  puddings,  etc. 

Fish-Kettle. — An  oblong  kettle  for  boiling  fish  ;  it  has  a 
perforated  bottom  of  tin,  with  handles  at  either  end.  The 
fish  is  placed  on  the  perforated  tin,  lowered  into  the  kettle, 
boiled,  and  when  done  lifted  out,  and  gently  slipped  from 
the  tin  to  the  platter  on  which  it  is  to  be  served. 

The  Bain-Marie. — An  open  vessel  that  is  filled  with  hot 
(not  boiling)  water,  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  or 
range.  In  this  there  are  placed  tin  stew-pans  or  cups  (with 
handles  and  tight  covers)  containing  vegetables,  sauces,  and 
other  articles  that  are  to  be  kept  warm. 

Porcelain  Kettle. — This  is  an  iron  kettle,  porcelain  lined; 
it  is  the  best  fruit-kettle  yet  invented. 

Custard-Kettle. — The  best  is  an  iron  vessel  with  strong 
handles,  having  a  smaller  one  (also  with  a  handle)  fitted  in- 
side of  it,  leaving  a  space  around  the  latter  for  water. 
The  inside  vessel  is  lined  with  block-tin.  The  custard-kettle 
— sometimes  called  a  farina-kettle — is  used  for  boiling  milk, 
cooking  grains,  or  any  articles  that  are  easily  scorched. 

Soup-Kettle. — A  kettle  with  a  double  bottom,  convenient 
for  soup,  and  other  things  that  require  long  and  careful 
boiling. 

Tea-Kettle  Boiler. — A  long,  tapering  tin  vessel  with  a 
handle,  and  made  to  lower  into  a  tea-kettle  ;  it  is  large 
enough  at  the  top  to  fill  the  opening,  and  long  enough  to 
reach  to  the  bottom.  The  cover  of  the  tea-kettle  may  be 
used  to  put  over  it.  It  serves  for  cooking  gruels  or  custards, 
and  as  a  steamer  for  puddings,  steamed  bread,  etc.,  for  a 
small  family. 

Cake-Pan. — The  bottom  and  sides  are  not  permanently 
attached  ;  by  unfastening  the  hooks  that  hold  them  together, 


PART  II.]  MISCELLANY.  257 

the  pan  opens,  leaving  the  cake  standing  on  the  bottom  of 
it,  whence  it  is  easily  slipped,  right  side  up  to  a  plate. 
There  is  also  a  movable  stem,  which  can  be  taken  off  when 
the  pan  is  used  for  bread,  puddings,  etc. 

The  Ferris  Cooker. — This  is  a  round  pile  of  tin  pans 
placed  over  an  iron  dish  of  boiling  water,  each  ready  for 
any  food,  as  meat,  poultry,  vegetables,  pies,  puddings,  or 
bread — all  cooking  at  once,  and  all  covered  closely  so  as  to 
retain  the  steam,  by  a  round  top  that  shuts  down  over  every 
dish,  and  fits  tightly  into  the  reservoir  of  water  beneath.  It 
makes  a  tall  pile  on  the  stove,  but  takes  up  no  more  room 
than  one  kettle,  and  its  height  does  not  interfere  with  any 
other  pot  or  sauce-pan  that  may  be  near.  The  "closed 
steamer  "  described  below  is  not  unlike  it. 

The  Warren  Cooker  is  said  to  be  constructed  on  a  similar 
plan,  and  is  very  highly  recommended  ;  it  is  better  known 
in  the  Eastern  cities  than  in  the  West. 

Closed  Steamer. — A  closed  steamer — so  often  referred  to 
in  this  book — differs  from  the  ordinary  one  in  admitting 
the  steam  into  several  chambers  at  once  ;  this  is  done,  not 
by  holes  in  the  bottom,  but  through  flues  in  the  side.  Like 
the  Ferris  Cooker,  it  can  be  used  in  cooking  two  or  more 
different  dishes  at  the  same  time  ;  the  only  precautions 
being,  not  to  let  the  bottom  vessel  get  dry,  and  always  to 
keep  the  water  at  a  fast  boil ;  if  this  is  not  done  the  steam 
will  condense,  and  water  collect  in  the  chambers.  Of 
course,  the  steamer  should  not  be  set  off  the  fire  unless  ab- 
solutely necessary,  and  then  only  for  a  moment. 

The  Gem  Eoaster. — An  iron  pan,  with  #  closely-fitting 
cover  of  the  same  material.  It  is  used  for  roasting  or  broil- 
ing meats,  fish,  etc.,  and  also  for  baking  bread,  biscuit,  or 
cake.  To  roast  meat,  place  it  in  the  pan  without  water,  fit 
on  the  cover,  and  set  it  into  a  moderate  oven,  closing  the 
vent  on  top.  Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound,  and  do 
not  uncover  till  done  ;  should  the  meat  not  be  sufficiently 


258  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAKT  II. 

browned,  open  the  vent,  and  set  the  pan  back  in  the  oven 
ten  minutes.  To  bake  bread,  put  the  dough  into  the  pan, 
filling  it  two-thirds  full ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place  till  light, 
then  put  on  the  cover,  close  the  vent,  and  bake  fifty  minutes. 
Cake  is  baked  in  the  same  way.  For  broiling,  etc.,  refer  to 
the  directions  that  are  furnished  with  it. 

A  Toaster.— The  simplest  is  made  of  wire  which  holds 
the  bread  in  place,  and  to  which  is  attached  a  long  wooden 
handle.  A  better,  perhaps,  is  constructed  out  of  a  sheet  of 
tin  large  enough  to  contain  six  slices  of  bread.  The  edges 
are  turned  up  about  half  an  inch,  and  bound  with  wire  ; 
perforations  are  cut  about  two  inches  apart  in  the  shape  of 
a  "  V  "  through  the  bottom,  and  the  sharp  points  turned  up 
so  as  to  penetrate  and  hold  the  bread  in  place.  A  stiff  wire 
handle  is  fastened  firmly  to  the  middle  of  the  back,  so  that 
the  toaster  is  kept  at  the  right  angle  before  the  fire  ;  and  if 
it  toasts  too  rapidly  at  top  or  bottom,  it  may  easily  be 
inverted. 

All  cooking  utensils  should  be  made  of  materials  that 
will  not  corrode  easily.  Granitized  ironware  is  one  of  the 
best ;  though  aluminum  is  said  to  be  good,  and  also  durable. 

Some  housewives  have  fallen  into  the  dangerous  habit  of 
cooking  their  fruits  and  vegetables  in  glazed  earthenware. 
Most  of  these  vessels  are  lined  with  a  leaden  or  other  glaze 
that  is  highly  poisonous.  The  injury  done  to  the  stomach 
and  other  organs,  is  not  always  felt  at  the  time ;  though  if 
these  vessels  are  corroded  with  fruits  and  fruit  juices  that 
are  strongly  acid,  the  immediate  results  may  be  very  seri- 
ous. Such  utensils  are  wholly  unfit  for  cooking  purposes, 
and  they  should  never  be  used. 


PART    III 


THE   COMPROMISE. 

In  the  Compromise  many  dishes  will  be  found,  as  pud- 
dings, custards,  meats,  etc.,  that  are  not  so  much  as  hinted 
at  in  the  Hygienic  Dietary,  from  the  fact  that  they  do  not 
belong  there.  On  the  other  hand,  most  of  those  dishes  that 
have  already  been  described,  must,  in  the  very  nature  of 
things,  reappear  in  this,  the  "worldly"  department.  For 
example,  there  are  some  forty  kinds  of  bread  in  Part  H., 
more  than  half  of  which  are  made  without  yeast  or  soda. 
But  since  these  are  not  sufficient  for  the  popular  demand, 
it  has  been  thought  necessary  to  introduce  here  still  other 
varieties  of  the  "staff  of  life,"  as  steamed  breads,  corn 
cakes,  Graham  and  corn  muffins,  Graham  cream  cakes,  plain 
rusks,  etc.,  etc.  The  steamed  breads,  though  not  the  most 
wholesome,  are,  in  the  way  of  a  change,  greatly  liked  by 
some  persons,  particularly  those  who  incline  to  rather  soft 
bread. 

In  the  following  recipes,  if  best  Akron  flour  (made  of 
white  wheat)  is  used,  no  sifting  will  be  needed.  But  if,  as 
in  ordinary  Graham,  the  bran  is  cut  in  large  flakes,  it  may 
be  necessary  to  put  the  flour  through  a  very  coarse  corn- 
meal  sieve,  to  take  out  the  rougher  portions.  In  all  steamed 
breads  (or  puddings)  use  white  or  golden  flint  corn  meal, 
kiln  dried  and  rather  coarsely  ground,  if  you  can  possibly 
get  it.  The  sugar  or  other  sweetening  in  these  breads,  may 
18  (259) 


260  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

be  omitted  if  desired  ;  or  chopped  raisins  or  other  sweet 
fruits  may  be  substituted.  If  molasses  or  syrup  is  named 
in  the  recipe,  beware  of  adulterations.  You  may  perhaps 
be  fortunate  enough  to  have  friends  in  the  country  who  will 
furnish  you  the  pure  article  ;  good  maple  or  sorghum,  free 
from  oil  of  vitriol,  sulphuric  acid,  and  other  vile  things. 

In  making  steamed  breads  mix  the  batter  thoroughly, 
and  beat  well ;  and  if  soda  or  baking-powder  is  used,  steam 
immediately  after  stirring  it  in.  Having  poured  the  batter 
into  a  pan,  well  oiled,  cover  closely  with  an  inverted  plate 
or  pie-pan,  leaving  plenty  of  room  for  the  bread  to  swell, 
and  set  it  in  the  steamer.  Then  cover  the  latter,  place  it 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  steam  till  done  ;  keep  the 
water  at  a  fast  boil,  and  do  not  lift  the  lid  till  the  bread  is 
taken  out.  The  pan  in  which  it  is  steamed  may  be  tin, 
earthen,  or  granitized  iron  ware  ;  a  wide  one,  and  rather 
shallow,  is  best ;  it  gives  more  crust,  and  the  bread  is 
lighter.  Steamed  bread  can  be  warmed  over  nicely,  by 
dipping  the  remnant  quickly  into  cold  water,  and  laying  it 
in  a  hot  oven  till  it  is  well  heated  through. 

STEAMED   BREAD. 

Whhaten  and  Indian  Bread.  =j£ 

2  cups*  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint,"  if  you  have  it. 

1  cup  Graham  flour. 

2  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1  teaspoonfulf  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
Time — two  to  three  hours. 

Stir  the  corn  meal  and  milk  together,  and  add  the  Graham 
flour  ;  then  add  the  sugar  and  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  very 

*  A  cup  is  half  a  pint. 

+  A  teaspoonful  (of  soda)  is  the  spoon  scarcely  more  than  level. 


PART  III.]  STEAMED    BREAD.  261 

thoroughly.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  tin  or  earthen  basin 
well  oiled,  cover  closely,  leaving  room  to  swell,  and  set  it  in 
a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Steam  from  two  to 
three  hours,  without  lifting  the  lid  ;  then  place  in  a  quick 
oven,  and  brown  ten  minutes. 

Wheaten  and  Indian  Bread.  4)= 

2^-  cups  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint "  preferred. 

1  cup  Graham  flour. 

2^  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1J  teaspoonfuls  soda — dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time —  two  hours  and  a  half. 

Form  a  batter  of  the  meal,  flour  and  milk,  then  add  the 
dissolved  soda,  and  beat  well;  pour  immediately  into  a 
shallow  pan  previously  oiled,  cover,  and  steam  two  hours 
and  a  half;  you  must  not  uncover  till  done.  Brown  a  few 
minutes  in  the  oven,  and  send  to  the  table. 

This  bread  is  better  mixed  an  hour  or  two  beforehand, 
and  the  batter  set  in  a  warm  place;  the  soda  should  be 
added,  with  thorough  beating,  the  last  thing  before  placing 
it  in  the  steamer. 

Wheaten  and  Indian  Bread.  =f^ 

3  cups  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint "  is  best. 

1J    "     Graham  flour. 

1  cup  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

^     "    pure  molasses — or  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Enough  boiling  water  to  scald  the  corn  meal,  and 

form  a  stiff  batter. 
Time — three  hours. 

Scald  the  corn  meal  the  night  before,  forming  a  batter  as 
stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  and  set  it  in  a  moder- 


262  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAKT  III. 

ately  warm  place.  In  the  morning  stir  in  the  Graham  flour 
and  molasses  (or  sugar),  and  the  cup  of  milk — or  enough 
to  form  a  batter  that  will  pour.  Set  where  it  will  not  be 
very  warm,  lest  it  should  sour.  Three  hours  before  dinner 
add  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  hard.  Turn  the  batter 
into  an  oiled  pan,  cover,  and  set  in  the  steamer.  Keep  the 
water  at  a  fast  boil,  and  steam  three  hours;  then  brown  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes  in  the  oven. 

Rye,  Wheat  and  Indian. — (Excellent.)^ 

1 J  cups  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint,"  if  you  have  it. 

^  cup  rye  flour. 

1     "     cracked  wheat. 

3  cups  sour  milk — -or  buttermilk. 

1J  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time — fully  three  hours. 
Stir  the  cracked  wheat  into  the  sour  milk,  and  let  it  soak 
at  least  an  hour;  then  stir  in  the  corn  meal,  rye  flour  and 
soda,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Steam  all  of  three  hours — 
longer  would  be  better — and  brown  ten  minutes  in  the  oven 
at  the  last.     Send  warm  to  the  table. 

Another. — Use  the  unbolted  rye  if  you  can  get  it,  instead 
of  rye  flour;  and  Graham  flour  for  cracked  wheat;  then 
proceed  as  before,  except  that  two  hours  and  a  half  will 
suffice  for  the  steaming,  though  three  would  be  better. 
Brown  at  the  last. 

Rye,  Wheat  and  Indian.^ 

1|-  cups  coarse  meal — "  flint "  is  best. 

1  cup  (unbolted)  rye  meal.* 

i     "     Graham  flour. 

3  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 


*  Rye  meal  is  unbolted  rye  llour. 


PART  m.]  STEAMED  BREAD.  263 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1J  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time — four  hours. 

Make  a  batter  of  the  above  ingredients,  and  beat  very 
thoroughly.  Then  pour  it  into  an  oiled  pan,  tin  or  earthen, 
leaving  room  to  swell;  cover,  and  set  immediately  in  the 
steamer.  Keep  the  water  constantly  boiling,  and  steam 
four  hours  without  uncovering.  When  done  place  in  the 
oven,  and  brown  ten  minutes  before  sending  to  the  table. 

If  preferred,  the  sugar  may  be  omitted.  This  bread  may 
be  served  without  browning,  as  a  pudding,  with  fruit  sauce 
or  lemon  sauce.  If  eaten  as  a  pudding,  a  cup  of  seeded 
raisins  may  be  added  before  steaming. 

Eye,  Wheat  and  Indian. — (Soft,  but  excellent.)^. 

2  cups  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint,"  if  you  have  it. 
1J    "     (unbolted)  rye  meal. 
-J  cup  cracked  wheat. 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
1  quart  sour  milk  or  buttermilk — or  enough  for  a  toler- 
ably soft  batter. 
Time — four  hours. 

Stir  together  the  rye  and  corn  meal,  add  the  sugar  and 
soda,  and  enough  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  to  form  a  batter 
soft  enough  to  pour.  Beat  hard,  turn  into  a  pan  well  oiled, 
and  steam  four  hours;  then  brown  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven,  and  turn  out  on  a  dish  for  the  table. 

If  the  milk  is  very  sour,  use  a  little  more  soda.  The 
sugar  may  be  omitted  if  desired,  and  a  cup  of  raisins  sub- 
stituted; and  if  rye  meal  can  not  be  had,  take  rye  flour 
instead.  This  bread  is  good  served  as  a  pudding,  with 
mock  cream  or  lemon  sauce. 


264  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

Rye,  Wheat  and  Indian. — (Excellent)^ 

1\  cups  coarse  corn  meal — "flint"  is  best. 

1  cup  rye  flour. 

f     ".   cracked  wheat. 

3  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

2  table  spoonfuls  sugar. 

1£  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Time — four  hours. 

Mix  the  several  grains  together,  add  the  milk  and  sugar, 
and  stir  well,  removing  the  lumps.  Then  add  the  dissolved 
soda,  and  beat  very  hard.  Pour  into  a  pan  well  oiled,  cover, 
and  steam  four  hours  without  lifting  the  lid.  "When  done, 
brown  ten  minutes  in  the  oven,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Some  like  this  bread  better  with  the  sugar  omitted. 

Rye,  Wheat  and  Indian. — (Excellent.)^. 

2  cups  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint/'  if  you  can  get  it. 
§  cup  rye  flour. 

1  "     Graham  flour. 
\    "     cracked  wheat. 

2  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1  cup  tepid  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Time — four  hours. 

Stir  the  grains  together,  add  the  sugar,  and  wet  with  the 
milk  and  water,  forming  a  batter  without  lumps;  then  add 
the  soda,  and  beat  very  thoroughly.  Pour  into  a  round 
pan,  well  oiled,  and  steam  four  hours  without  uncovering. 
Brown  in  the  oven  ten  minutes. 

The  sugar  may  be  omitted  if  desired;  or  the  same  quan- 
tity of  molasses  or  syrup  may  be  used,  provided  you  can 
get  it  pure. 


PART  III.]  CORN    CAKE,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  265 

Rye,  Wheat  and  Indian. — (Soft,  but  good.)^ 

1  cup  rye  flour — rye  meal,  if  you  can  get  it. 

1  "    Graham  flour. 
£     "    cracked  wheat. 

2  cups  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint,"  if  you  have  it. 
2     "      sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar — or  \  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 

chopped. 
1^  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Enough  boiling  water  to  scald  the  meal  and  wheat. 
Time — four  hours. 

Mix  and  scald  the  corn  meal  and  cracked  wheat,  making 
a  batter  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  and  let  this 
stand  over  night.  Set  it  in  a  moderately  warm  place — in 
winter,  near  the  stove  or  fire  ;  in  summer,  on  the  kitchen 
table.  In  the  morning  add  the  Graham  and  rye  flour  (or 
meal),  and  the  sour  milk,  or  enough  to  form  a  batter 
that  will  pour.  Stir  well  together,  and  set  in  a  place  not 
so  warm  as  to  sour  it.  Four  hours  before  dinner  add 
the  sugar  (or  raisins),  and  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Pour  into  an  oiled  pan,  cover,  and  set  in  the 
steamer.  Keep  the  water  at  a  fast  boil  four  hours,  and  do 
not  uncover  the  steamer  till  the  bread  is  done  ;  then  brown 
fifteen  minutes  in  the  oven  before  sending  to  the  table. 

CORN    CAKE,    MUFFINS,    Etc. 
Bachelor's  Johnny  Cake. — (Good.)3fe 

3  cups  corn  meal. 

1  cup  Graham  flour. 

3  cups  new  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time— 20  to  30  minutes. 


266  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Mix  the  meal,  flour  and  milk  over  night,  and  set  the 
batter  where  it  will  keep  moderately  warm  but  will  not 
sour.  In  the  morning  add  the  sugar  and  the  dissolved 
soda,  and  beat  hard.  Pour  into  two  pans,  well  oiled,  and 
bake  for  breakfast ;  the  cakes  should  not  be  more  than  an 
inch  thick  when  done.  It  will  require  a  hot  oven,  and 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Corn  Cake. — (Excellent)^. 

2  cups  corn  meal. 

1  cup  flour,  Graham  or  white. 

1J  cups  sweet  milk. 

^  cup         "       cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
Time— 20  to  30  minutes. 

Mix  together  the  meal,  flour,  milk,  cream  and  soda,  and 
beat  well.  See  that  the  oven  is  hot,  then  add  the  cream  of 
tartar,  and  beat  very  thoroughly.  Dip  immediately  into 
gem-pans,  well  oiled,  or  pour  into  two  small  bread-pans, 
and  bake  twenty  minutes.  The  batter  should  be  about  as 
stiff  as  will  drop  from  a  spoon,  but  rather  too  soft  to  mould 
with  the  hands.  If  it  is  too  thin,  add  a  little  meal ;  if  too 
thick,  add  more  milk.  The  coarser  the  corn  meal,  the  more 
milk  will  be  required. 

If  new  milk  is  used  for  mixing,  no  cream  will  be  needed. 

Kentucky  Corn  Cake.=(^ 

Take,  say  two  cups  of  corn  meal,  and  half  scald  by  stir- 
ring into  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water  ;  then  add  cold  water  or 
cold  sweet  milk,  to  form  a  batter  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred 
with  a  spoon  ;  beat  very  thoroughly.  Spread  it  two-thirds 
of  an  inch  thick  on  an  oiled  griddle,  and  bake  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes,  or  till  the  bottom  is  well  browned ;  then  remove 


PABT  in.]  CORN    CAKE,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  267 

the  griddle  from  the  top  of  the  stove,  place  it  in  a  moderate 
oven,  on  the  topmost  grate,  and  let  it  bake  from  thirty  to 
forty  minutes  ;  longer,  if  mixed  with  water.  If  more  con- 
venient, you  may  dispense  with  the  griddle,  pour  the  batter 
into  a  bread-pan,  and  bake  in  the  oven  forty  to  fifty  minutes. 

Corn  Custard. — (Excellent. ) 4£ 

1  pint  (heaping)  corn  meal. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  flour. 

1  quart  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

3  eggs — yolks  and  whites  separate. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Time — 20  minutes. 

See  that  the  oven  is  just  right ;  then  stir  together  the 
meal,  flour,  milk,  and  beaten  yolks.  When  these  are  well 
mixed  add  the  dissolved  soda,  and  the  whites  cut  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  beat  hard.  Pour  into  two  pans,  well  oiled,  and 
bake  immediately.  The  bread  should  not  be  more  than  an 
inch  in  thickness  when  done  ;  it  should  bake  in  about 
twenty  minutes. 

Graham  Muffins. 

Into  two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  stir  three  cups  of  sifted 
Graham  flour — or  you  may  take  half  white — and  beat  very 
thoroughly.  If  the  batter  is  too  stiff  to  drop  readily  from 
the  spoon,  add  a  little  more  milk  and  stir  again.  Then  dip 
into  hot  gem-pans,  slightly  oiled,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven 
thirty  to  forty  minutes. 

Graham  and  Corn  Muffins. — ( Excellent.  J^fc 
2  full  cups  corn  meal. 
1  cup  Graham  flour. 

1  "    sweet  milk 

2  cups  boiling  water. 
1  egg. 

Time — 20  minutes. 


268  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  into  the  meal,  and  stir  well ;  let 
the  mixture  stand  till  lukewarm.  Then  add  the  cup  of 
milk,  or  enough  to  form  a  batter  about  as  stiff  as  will  drop 
from  the  spoon,  and  beat  well.  Set  this  in  a  warm  place 
two  hours  ;  then  break  in  the  egg,  and  beat  hard.  Dip  into 
hot  gem-pans,  well  oiled,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  brisk 
oven. 

Cream  G-ems.^ 

1  cup  sweet  cream. 

%     "       "      milk. 

2 \  cups  Graham  flour — or  enough  for  gem-batter. 

Time — 30  to  40  minutes. 

Stir  Graham  flour,  sifted  or  unsifted,  into  the  cream  and 
milk,  until  a  batter  is  formed  that  will  drop  readily  from 
the  spoon.  Beat  very  thoroughly,  dip  into  hot  gem-pans, 
previously  oiled,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  thirty  to  forty 
minutes.  Instead  of  all  Graham,  half  white  flour  (sifted) 
may  be  used.     Eat  warm,  but  not  hot. 

This  bread,  though  rather  moist,  is  well  liked  by  some 
persons  ;  and  it  certainly  is  more  wholesome  than  the  ordi- 
nary hot  biscuit,  made  of  white  flour  and  lard. 

"Middlings,"  "shorts,"  or  unbolted  rye  flour,  may  be 
mixed  in  the  same  way ;  and  instead  of  cream,  all  milk 
makes  very  good  gems. 

Cream  Gems. — (With  Fruit.  )# 

Mix  as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  using  a  little  more  milk, 
and  then  stir  in  one  cup  of  currants  or  seedless  raisins, 
well  dredged  with  a  portion  of  the  flour  ;  the  currants 
should  be  picked,  washed  and  dried,  before  dredging.  Bake 
in  a  brisk,  but  even  oven,  and  be  careful  not  to  scorch  in 
finishing. 


PAET  III.]  CORN    CAKE,  MUFFINS,  ETC.  269 

Potato   and   Corn   Muffins. — (Good.J^. 

1  cup  cold  mashed  potato. 
1     "     sweet  milk. 
1  egg,  well  beaten. 

1  cup  corn  meal — or  enough  for  gem-batter. 
Time — 20  to  30  minutes. 

Soften  the  potato  with  the  milk,  working  out  all  the 
lumps  ;  then  stir  in  corn  meal  till  the  batter  is  just  thick 
enough  to  drop  easily  from  the  spoon  ;  add  the  whipped 
egg,  and  beat  hard.  Drop  into  hot  gem-pans,  oiled,  and 
bake  in  an  even  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Potato  Cake. 

2  cups  mealy  potato,  mashed  fine, 
i  cup  sweet  cream. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour — Graham  or  white. 
Time — 20  minutes. 

Stir  into  the  mashed  potato  the  cream  and  flour,  mixing 
thoroughly;  beat  lightly  with  a  fork,  and  then  make  with 
the  hand  into  little  flat  cakes,  half  an  inch  thick.  Bake  to 
a  good  brown,  and  send  to  the  table  as  soon  as  done. 
The  flour  can  be  omitted,  if  desired. 

Another. — Take  cold  mashed  potato,  crush  till  there  are 
no  lumps,  and  stir  in  a  beaten  egg;  mould  into  thin  flat 
cakes,  pass  the  rolling-pin  lightly  over  them  to  make  them 
smooth,  and  then  either  bake  in  the  oven,  or  brown  on  a 
griddle,  slightly  oiled. 

Rice  and  Corn  Bread. — (  Excellent.  )^z 

1^  cups  cold  boiled  rice. 
2      "       sour  milk. 
1  egg,  well  beaten. 


270  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

3  cups  coarse  corn  meal — or  enough  to  make  a  toler- 
ably soft  gem-batter. 
Time — 30  minutes. 

Soften  the  rice  with  the  milk,  and  mash  all  the  lumps; 
add  the  beaten  egg,  and  enough  of  the  corn  meal  to  form 
a  thin  batter.  Stir  well;  then  add  more  meal — enough  to 
make  a  batter  just  stiff  enough  to  mould  with  the  hands; 
add  also  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  hard.  Form  into 
small  oval  cakes,  say  three  inches  long  and  an  inch  and  a 
half  in  thickness,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  thirty  minutes. 

Mush  Muffins. 

Into  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  stir  enough  corn  meal  to 
make  an  ordinary  mush;  let  it  cook  ten  minutes.  When 
cooled  to  lukewarm  beat  in  two  eggs  (some  use  but  one), 
and  then  thin  the  mush  by  stirring  in  a  little  milk  or  cream, 
so  that  it  will  drop  readily  from  the  spoon.  Bake  in  oiled 
gem-pans,  about  thirty  minutes. 

Eye  Drop-Cakes. 

2  cups  sour  milk. 

1  egg,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  pint  rye  meal — or  enough  for  gem-batter. 

Stir  into  the  milk  enough  rye  meal  to  form  a  batter  that 
will  drop  from  the  spoon;  then  add  the  egg  and  soda,  and 
beat  well.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle,  or  in  gem-pans  well 
oiled;  if  in  gem-pans,  the  oven  must  have  an  even  heat, 
and  the  cakes  should  bake  half  an  hour. 

"Connell,"  or  "middlings,"  mixed  in  the  same  way, 
makes  good  cakes;  and  they  are  far  more  wholesome  and 
nutritious  than  the  ordinary  lard  biscuit,  or  bakers'  bread, 
used  by  rich  and  poor. 


PART  HI.]  GEIDDLE-CAKES.  271 

A  mixture  of  half  Graham  and  half  rye  (meal  or  flour), 
wet  with  sweet  milk  to  the  consistency  of  gem-batter,  and 
baked,  makes  very  good  cakes. 

GKIDDLE-CAKES. 

Griddle-cakes  are  not  expected  to  form  any  considerable 
part  of  the  hygienic  dietary.  If  indulged  in  at  all,  it  should 
only  be  occasionally,  and  then  without  the  ordinary  accom- 
paniments of  butter  and  molasses,  or  syrup.  If  they  can 
not  be  relished  without  condiments,  or  with  the  addition  of 
plain  fruits,  stewed  or  canned,  then  they  had  better  be  dis- 
pensed with,  altogether.  Eaten  in  this  simple  manner,  as 
an  occasional  breakfast  dish  on  a  cold  morning,  and  with  a 
good  keen  appetite  to  aid  the  digestion,  they  may  now  and 
then  make  their  appearance  without  causing  a  bad  head- 
ache, or  a  dull  pain  in  the  stomach. 

The  best  of  all  the  grains  for  batter  cakes,  is  buckwheat. 
To  be  first-class,  it  must  be  free  from  grit,  or  other  impur- 
ity or  adulteration.  Most  of  the  buckwheat  flour  in  our 
markets  is  largely  mixed  with  poor  white  flour,  "  shorts," 
etc.,  and  nearly  all  of  it  is  too  finely  ground.  Cakes  made 
of  good  buckwheat  flour  should  brown  nicely,  and  they 
should  be  light  and  sweet.  The  following  is  a  plain  but 
good  recipe  for  making  them. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.  =$= 

H  pints  (nearly)  buckwheat  flour. 
1  quart  warm  water. 
h  cup  good  hop  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  Graham  flour,  or  fine  corn  meal— 

or  you  may  take  "  connell." 

Have  the  water  no  warmer  than  blood  heat;  pour  half  or 

two-thirds  of  it  into  a  large  earthen  pitcher,  and  stir  the 

flour  in,  a  handful  at  a  time;  beat  till  there  are  no  lumps. 


272  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  in. 

Then  add  the  rest  of  the  water,  the  yeast,  the  Graham  flour 
or  corn  meal — or  "connell,"  if  you  use  it — and  beat  very 
thoroughly.  Mix  at  night  (in  cold  weather),  and  set  the  bat- 
ter in  a  moderately  warm  place  till  morning;  it  should  then 
be  light,  but  not  sour.  It  will  be  rather  foamy  on  top,  and 
will  require  a  very  little  light  stirring;  if  too  stiff,  stir  in  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  tepid  water. 

The  buckwheat  flour  of  thirty  or  forty  years  ago,  was 
ground  coarser  (and  it  was  very  much  better)  than  the  ar- 
ticle now  sold  under  that  name;  it  felt  like  buckwheat,  and 
it  tasted  like  it;  it  was  also  free  from  adulteration.  The 
batter  made  from  it  had  both  a  lightness  and  a  "  body," 
that  is  not  now  to  be  found;  and  the  cakes,  which  were 
usually  the  full  size  of  the  griddle,  were  marvels  of  excel- 
lence. The  modern  buckwheat  flour  makes  a  batter  that  is 
too  fragile  to  manage  in  the  same  way;  hence  the  rule,  to 
bake  three  cakes  on  a  griddle  of  ordinary  size,  as  they  are 
more  easily  turned  without  breaking. 

The  batter  should  be  quite  thin  ;  thin  enough  to  spread 
readily  as  it  is  poured  on  the  griddle.  Then  have  a  good 
even  fire,  the  griddle  clean  and  hot,  and  oiled  just  enough 
to  keep  the  cakes  from  sticking  ;  a  convenient  arrangement 
for  this  latter  purpose,  is  a  stick  with  a  rag  wrapped  around 
and  tied  on  the  end  of  it,  and  well  saturated  with  olive  oil  or 
good  sweet  dripping  ;  change  frequently,  or  keep  scrupu- 
lously clean.  Pour  on  just  enough  batter  to  make  three 
thin  cakes  (you  can  hardly  get  them  too  thin),  and  the  mo- 
ment they  are  ready  to  turn,  pop  them  over  ;  if  you  let 
them  dry  out  before  turning,  they  will  be  spoiled.  Regu- 
late the  heat  of  the  griddle  so  that  the  cakes  will  brown 
evenly,  but  not  scorch  ;  this  direction  applies  to  all  griddle- 
cakes.     Nothing  is  worse  than  a  raw  or  burnt  batter-cake. 

Leave  a  little  of  the  batter  in  the  bottom  of  the  crock,  for 
a  sponge  the  next  evening ;  it  will  be  better  than  to  use 
fresh  yeast  every  time.     You  may  do  this  for  a  week  or 


PART  III.]  GRIDDLE-CAKES.  273 

two,  or  as  long  as  the  batter  rises  well,  and  is  sweet ;  if  you 
find  it  soui*  any  morning,  the  only  remedy  is  to  stir  in  a 
pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  and  try  a  little  on 
the  griddle  ;  if  more  soda  is  needed,  add  it  cautiously. 
Once  the  batter  has  soured,  you  must  make  new  the  next 
time. 

A  mixture  half  "middlings"  and  half  buckwheat, makes 
very  good  cakes. 

Wheaten  Griddle-Cakes. 

2  cups  sifted  "  middlings  "  or  "  connell." 
2£   "    warm  water. 
2  tablespoonfuls  yeast. 
1  table  spoonful  corn  meal. 

Mix  at  night  the  same  as  for  buckwheat  cakes,  and  bake 
in  the  morning  on  a  hot  griddle,  for  breakfast.  See  that 
the  "middlings"  are  fresh  and  clean. 

Wheaten  Griddle-Cakes. — (Good.)^. 

2  cups  sifted  "  middlings  "  or  "  connell." 
2^    "     sour  milk  or  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Make  a  batter  of  the  milk,  eggs  and  flour,  add  the  dis- 
solved soda,  and  beat  well ;  then  bake  immediately  on  a 
hot  griddle.  The  cakes  should  be  light  and  tender,  and 
nicely  browned  without  scorching ;  they  are  excellent. 
Graham  flour  may  be  used  instead  of  "  middlings,"  but  it  is 
not  as  good. 

Crumb  Griddle-Cakes. — (Excellent. ) 4f= 

2  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 
2      "     stale  bread-crumbs. 
\  cup  sifted  Graham  flour. 


274  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

1  egg,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  till  soft ;  then  work  till 
smooth,  and  add  enough  flour  to  bind  the  mixture  together. 
Stir  in  the  beaten  egg  and  dissolved  soda,  beat  very  hard, 
and  bake  to  a  good  brown ;  the  griddle  should  be  well 
oiled. 

If  preferred,  use  part  sour  cream,  and  leave  out  the  egg. 

Green  Corn  Griddle-Cakes.  4£ 

1  pint  grated  green  corn. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milk  or  cream. 

2  "  flour — or  enough  to  thicken  a  little. 

Mix  together  the  corn,  yolks  and  milk,  and  add  the  flour, 
Graham  or  white — just  enough  to  bind  all  together  ;  better 
test  a  little  on  the  griddle  before  baking,  as  too  much  flour 
spoils  the  cakes.  Whip  and  stir  in  the  whites,  beating 
thoroughly  ;  then  bake  on  a  hot  griddle,  well  oiled.  Have 
a  good  even  fire,  and  bake  in  small  cakes,  easily  turned. 

Corn  Griddle-Cakes. — (Excellent )$: 

2  cups  coarse  corn  meal. 

2     "     sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1  egg- 

1  tablespoonful  Graham  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Make  a  batter  of  the  meal,  milk,  egg  and  flour ;  if  it  is 
too  thick,  add  a  little  milk.  Then  stir  in  the  dissolved  soda, 
beat  well,  and  bake  immediately  on  a  hot  griddle ;  do  not 
scorch  the  cakes. 


PART  in.]  CAKE-MAKING.  275 

Corn  Bread  Griddle-Cakes. 

1  quart  com  bread-crumbs. 

1  pint  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1     "     cold  water. 

1  egg,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  cup  flour — or  enough  to  form  a  thin  batter. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  water  over  night;  in  the  morning 
mash  fine,  add  the  milk  and  beaten  egg,  and  mix  well. 
Then  stir  in  enough  flour,  Graham  or  white,  to  bind  the  mixt- 
ure together  ;  add  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  hard.  Bake 
immediately  on  a  hot  griddle,  without  scorching. 

Rice  Griddle-Cakes. — (Good.)^ 

1  cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

1      "    sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1      "    sifted  Graham  flour. 

1  egg,  well  beaten. 

■|  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Moisten  the  rice  with  the  milk,  and  mix  them  well  to- 
gether ;  if  there  are  lumps  remaining,  mash  fine  with  a 
spoon — or  a  fork,  which  is  better.  Stir  in  the  Graham 
flour  and  beaten  egg,  forming  a  thin  fritter  batter  ;  then 
the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  small  thin  cakes 
to  a  good  brown  ;  the  griddle  must  be  clean,  and  well 
oiled. 

Cold  samp  (fine  hominy)  mixed  in  the  same  way,  is  ex- 
cellent. 

CAKE-MAKING. 

As  might  be  anticipated,  the  varieties  of  cake  in  a  hy- 
gienic cook-book  are  rather  limited  ;  but  no  matter  how 
few  in  number,  or  how  plain  in  the  making,  the  general 

directions  for  mixing  and  baking  are  essentially  the  same 
19 


276  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

as  for  richer  ones.  First  of  all,  let  there  be  good  materials  ; 
the  best  of  flour  (sifted),  fresh  eggs,  and  good  sweet  cream. 
If  fruit  is  used  let  it  be  prepared  beforehand  ;  currants 
should  be  looked  over  carefully,  washed  till  they  are  free 
from  all  sediment,  and  then  thoroughly  dried  in  an  oven 
that  is  not  more  than  blood  heat  ;  they  must  be  well 
dredged  with  flour  before  using,  and  then  stirred  into  the 
cake-batter  the  last  thing  before  it  is  baked.  Eaisins,  if 
clean,  may  be  spared  the  washing  and  drying  ;  simply  pick 
from  the  stems,  seed  and  chop  them,  and  dredge  well  with 
flour.  Keep  the  eggs  in  a  cool  place  (or  drop  into  cold 
water)  till  they  are  wanted  ;  and  if  practicable,  beat  them 
in  a  cool  room.  If  more  than  one  egg  is  needed,  separate 
the  yolks  and  whites  as  carefully  as  possible  ;  then  beat  the 
yolks  with  the  sugar,  and  the  whites  by  themselves  ;  the 
latter  must  be  cut  to  a  froth  stiff  enough  to  adhere  to  the 
plate,  turned  upside  down.  Use  an  earthen  or  stoneware 
basin,  both  for  beating  the  eggs  and  mixing  the  cake. 

Before  you  begin  with  the  batter,  have  all  the  ingredients 
at  hand,  and  in  order  ;  the  cream  of  tartar  sifted  through 
the  flour,  the  soda  dissolved,  the  sugar  (if  not  the  granulated) 
rolled  fine,  and  the  cake-pan  clean  and  well  oiled  ;  do  not 
heat  before  oiling,  as  it  makes  the  cake  stick  ;  have  the  pan 
cold  or  lukewarm — never  hot.  Look  to  the  oven,  and  see 
that  the  fire  is  just  right  ;  you  will  need  a  steady,  even 
heat,  one  that  you  can  depend  upon  till  the  cake  is  done. 
Some  cooks  prefer  to  use  the  soda  without  dissolving  it ;  in 
this  case  you  must  mash  with  a  knife  till  it  is  perfectly 
smooth,  and  then  sift  it  and  the  cream  of  tartar  well  through 
the  flour,  or  a  part  of  it.  An  objection  to  this  method  is, 
that  careless  cooks  do  not  always  pulverize  the  soda  thor- 
oughly before  sifting.  The  safest  way,  certainly,  is  to  dis- 
solve it  in  boiling  water.  If  instead  of  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar,  baking-powder  is  used,  mix  well  with  a  spoonful  or 
two  of  the  flour,  and  stir  it  (with  thorough  beating)  into 


PART  IH.]  CAKE-MAKING.  277 

plain  cake,  the  last  thing-  before  baking  ;  into  fruit  cake,  the 
last  thing  before  adding  the  fruit.  Buy  the  kind  of  baking- 
powder  that  is  least  adulterated,  if  you  know  which  that  is. 
The  "  Price  "  is  said  by  chemists  to  be  nearly  or  quite  free 
from  foreign  ingredients — aside  from  starch,  which,  to  say 
the  least,  is  not  poisonous. 

In  hygienic  cake — if  any  cake  can  be  so  designated — mix 
as  follows  :  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  a  little 
of  the  cream,  and  stir  in  flour  to  thicken  ;  then  more  cream, 
then  more  flour.  When  all  is  used,  stir  in  the  whipped 
whites  and  beat  well ;  then  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat 
very  thoroughly,  till  the  batter  is  light  and  smooth  ;  then 
pour  it  into  the  cake-pan,  and  bake  immediately.  Never  let 
the  batter  stand  after  it  is  mixed  ;  and  never  move  the  cake 
while  it  is  baking,  if  it  can  be  avoided  ;  test  toward  the  last 
with  a  broom-straw,  to  see  if  the  dough  adheres  to  it ;  when 
done,  the  straw  should  come  out  clean  from  the  thickest 
portion. 

In  making  cake,  and  in  cooling  after  it  is  baked,  tho 
Buckeye  Cookery  says  :  "Do  not  stir,  but  beat  thoroughly, 
bringing  the  batter  up  from  the  bottom  of  the  dish  at  every 
stroke  ;  in  this  way  the  ah'  is  driven  into  the  cells  of  the 
batter,  instead  of  out  of  them  ;  but  the  cells  will  be  finer  if 
beaten  more  slowly  at  the  last,  remembering  that  the  motion 
should  always  be  upward."  "The  oven  should  be  rather 
hot  for  small  cakes,  and  moderate  for  larger  ones.  Most 
kinds  of  loaf  cake  may  be  taken  from  the  tins  in  about 
fifteen  minutes  after  they  come  from  the  oven ;  but  they 
should  not  be  turned  over  on  the  top  to  cool."  A  good  way 
is  to  turn  a  common  wire  sieve  upside  down,  and  when  the 
cake  is  taken  out  of  the  pan,  place  it  light  side  up  on  tho 
sieve  till  it  is  thoroughly  cold.  If  not  to  be  eaten  till  tho 
next  day,  wrap  it  in  a  clean  thick  towel  or  napkin,  put  it 
into  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar,  and  cover  closely. 


278  HEALTH  IN   THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

Graham  Cream  Cake. 

1  cup  thick  sweet  cream. 
2i  cups  sifted  Graham  flour, 
f  cup  sugar. 

1  egg. 

-J-  teaspoonf ul  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "  cream- tar  tar,  good  measure. 

Before  mixing,  see  that  the  oven  is  in  order ;  it  must 
have  a  good  steady  heat,  but  very  moderate.  Place  the  above 
ingredients  all  on  the  table,  together  with  the  cake-pan  ; 
oil  the  latter  well,  having  it  cold  or  barely  warm.  Now  sift 
the  cream  of  tartar  through  the  flour  very  thoroughly,  and 
beat  the  egg  and  sugar  together — or  if  more  than  one  cake 
is  wanted,  double  the  above  proportions,  and  carefully  sepa- 
rate the  yolks  and  whites.  Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar, 
reserving  the  whites  to  be  whipped  by  themselves  ;  let  the 
beating  be  done  by  an  assistant,  if  there  is  one  at  hand. 
Add  to  the  yolks  and  sugar  a  part  of  the  cream,  and  stir  in 
enough  of  the  flour  to  thicken ;  then  more  cream,  then 
more  flour  ;  if  the  latter  is  coarsely  ground,  a  little  less  will 
be  needed  ;  the  batter  must  not  be  very  stiff.  When  this  is 
mixed  stir  in  the  well-whipped  whites  and  the  dissolved 
soda,  and  beat  thoroughly  ;  then  pour  into  the  cake-pan  (or 
pans),  and  place  immediately  in  the  oven.  Bake  rather 
slowly  at  first,  allowing  the  cake  to  rise  to  its  full  height 
before  the  top  is  hardened  ;  and  if  possible  do  not  move  it 
till  done.  Finish  with  an  even  brown,  top  and  bottom,  but 
not  the  slightest  approach  to  scorching  ;  if  the  top  browns 
a  little  too  fast,  cover  with  a  paper  ;  if  the  bottom  is  in 
danger,  lift  carefully,  and  slide  a  bread-pan,  bottom  upward, 
under  it. 

When  nearly  done,  pass  a  broom-straw  through  the 
thickest  portion  ;  if  it  comes  out  clean  add  three  minutes 
to  the  baking,  and  remove  from  the  oven.    Should  the  cake 


PART  UI.]  CAKE-MAKING.  279 

adhere  to  the  pan,  leave  it  in  five  to  ten  minutes  ;  then  turn 
it  carefully  out,  and  set  right  side  up  on  an  inverted  sieve 
to  cool.  If  not  wanted  for  the  table,  wrap  when  fully  cold 
in  a  clean  coarse  towel,  or  in  two  or  three  folds  of  old 
table-linen ;  then  put  it  into  a  tin  bread-box  or  stone  jar, 
cover  closely,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

This  cake  well  made,  is  light,  soft  and  tender  ;  it  usually 
bakes  in  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes.  Sour  cream  may  be 
used  in  mixing,  and  the  cream  of  tartar  omitted  ;  but  good 
sweet  cream  is  preferable,  if  you  have  it. 

Graham  Fruit  Cake.^ 

1  cup  thick  sweet  cream. 

2  cups  sifted  Graham  flour 

J  cup  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  thoroughly  dried. 

■|    "     raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  egg. 

\  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "  cream-tartar,  good  measure. 

The  ingredients  being  all  on  the  table,  and  the  cake-pan 
well  oiled,  look  to  the  oven  a  moment.  Then  dredge  the 
fruit  with  a  portion  of  the  flour,  already  sifted  and  meas- 
ured ;  beat  the  egg  and  sugar  together,  add  the  cream,  and 
stir  in  the  flour  with  the  cream  of  tartar  well  sifted  through 
it,  forming  rather  a  thin  batter  ;  then  add  the  dissolved 
soda,  and  beat  well.  Lastly,  put  in  the  raisins  and  currants, 
and  stir  them  lightly  but  evenly  through  the  mass.  Bake 
as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  allowing  a  little  more  time  on 
account  of  the  fruit.  Test  with  the  straw,  and  after  it 
comes  out  clean  bake  five  minutes.  When  taken  from  the 
oven,  if  the  cake  sticks  to  the  pan  leave  it  in  five  to  ten 
minutes  ;  then  remove,  cool,  and  wrap,  and  put  away  as 
before — or  it  may  be  sent  to  the  table  as  soon  as  cold. 


280  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

If  two  cakes  are  wanted,  double  the  above  quantities, 
beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  and  the  whites  separately; 
these,  cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  should  be  whipped  into  the  bat- 
ter just  before  adding  the  dissolved  soda.  This  simple  cake 
is  more  wholesome  and  palatable,  than  many  that  are 
"rich"  (indigestible)  with  butter,  eggs,  sugar,  molasses, 
spices,  wines,  etc.  It  is  best  eaten  with  tart,  juicy  fruit,  as 
strawberries,  or  stewed  cherries;  it  is  very  good  with  grape 
juice.  If  wanted  "for  company,"  remove  from  the  oven 
the  moment  the  straw  comes  out  clean,  place  on  a  platter, 
and  moisten  the  top  of  the  cake  with  the  white  of  egg 
beaten  to  a  froth;  then  sift  over  a  little  white  sugar,  and 
return  it  to  the  oven  three  to  five  minutes.  You  can  beat 
a  little  lemon  juice  with  the  egg,  if  you  like.  When  the 
cake  is  set  on  the  table,  you  may  garnish  it  with  clusters  of 
cherries  with  their  leaves;  or  with  bunches  of  ripe  currants 
or  other  fruit,  natural  or  "  frosted." 

Graham  Beead  Cake. 

2  cups  light  yeast  dough. 

1  cup  seedless  raisins — or  currants. 
^    "    sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

3  tablespoonfuls  thick  sweet  cream. 

The  dough  should  be  rather  soft,  and  light  enough  for 
baking;  it  may  be  all  or  part  Graham.  Dredge  the  sweet 
fruit  well  with  flour;  and  if  currants  are  used,  pick,  wash 
and  dry  them  before  dredging.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
together,  add  the  cream,  and  with  a  strong  spoon  stir  ail 
into  the  dough;  when  well  mixed,  add  the  whites  cut  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  beat  very  thoroughly.  Then  stir  in  the  fruit 
lightly,  pour  into  a  shallow  pan,  well  oiled,  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  place  in  the  oven,  and 
bake  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  or  until  done. 


part  iii.]  cake-making.  281 

Apple  Cake.4(= 

Make  the  same  as  Graham  cream  cake,  using  only  half 
a  cup  of  sugar  to  the  other  measurements,  and  bake  m  two 
cakes,  each  an  inch  in  thickness.  In  the  mean  time,  stew 
some  apples  in  as  little  water  as  will  cook  them;  and  when 
the  cakes  are  done  and  cooled  a  little,  spread  the  hot  apple 
between.  Serve  when  nearly  cold,  with  cream,  or  fruit 
juice. 

Strawberries,  or  ripe  peaches  thinly  sliced,  may  be  used 
instead  of  stewed  apples;  the  berries  should  be  very  ripe, 
and  chopped  a  little  before  spreading. 

Huckleberry  Cake. 

1  cup  sour  cream. 

2  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 

1  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1J  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
1J  pints  huckleberries,  fresh  and  ripe. 

Dredge  the  berries  with  a  portion  of  the  flour;  then  beat 
the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  the  sour  cream  and  stir 
in  the  flour,  forming  a  smooth  batter.  Whip  in  the  whites 
cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  thor- 
oughly. Lastly,  stir  the  berries  in  carefully,  breaking  them 
as  little  as  possible;  pour  into  an  oiled  cake-pan,  not  too 
deep,  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  till  a  broom-straw 
comes  out  clean;  then  add  five  minutes  to  the  baking,  and 
remove  from  the  oven.  In  ten  minutes  more  take  the  cake 
out  of  the  pan,  and  set  it  right  side  up  on  a  sieve  to  cool. 

If  preferred,  use  sweet  cream,  and  less  soda  by  half  a 
teaspoonful. 


,282  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Graham  Sponge  Cake.  4^ 

1  cup  (scant)  sifted  Graham  flour. 

J    "      sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

i  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

\  "  cream-tartar. 

Juice  of  one  small  lemon. 

Sift  the  cream  of  tartar  through  the  flour,  at  least  twice. 
In  warm  weather,  the  eggs,  which  must  be  fresh,  should  be 
cooled  by  dropping  them  into  ice-water.  Beat  the  yolks, 
lemon  juice,  and  sugar  together,  and  stir  in  the  flour;  then 
add  the  soda  and  whipped  whites,  beating  moderately;  pour 
the  batter  into  a  cake-pan,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven.  The 
pan,  usually  of  oblong  shape  and  with  perpendicular  sides, 
should  be  lined  with  white  paper,  well  oiled.  Test  with  a 
broom-straw,  after  twenty  minutes'  baking. 

In  making  sponge  cake  mix  as  quickly  as  possible,  beat 
lightly  and  not  too  long,  and  bake  as  soon  as  mixed. 

Graham  Sponge  Cake.  4^ 

1^  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 

1  cup  sugar. 

\   "     cold  water. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Beat  the  yolks,  lemon  and  sugar  together,  add  the 
water,  and  stir  in  the  flour  through  which  the  cream  of  tar- 
tar has  been  well  sifted.  Then  add  the  dissolved  soda  and 
beat  lightly.  Last  of  all  stir  in  the  well-whipped  whites, 
pour  the  batter  into  a  shallow  pan,  lined  with  white  paper 
well  oiled,  and  bake   immediately.     Have  rather  a  quick 


PART  ni.]  CAKE-MAKING.  283 

oven,  and  test  with  a  straw  as  in  the  last  recipe;  the  cake 
should  be  hardly  an  inch  in  thickness,  when  done. 

Layer  Cake. 

1  cup  sweet  cream. 

1  "     sifted  Graham  flour. 
|    "         "      white  flour. 

f    "     sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

£  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  the  cream,  and 
stir  in  the  flour  ;  mix  till  smooth,  add  the  whites  whipped 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  well. 
Then  dip  into  tins  well  oiled,  and  bake  in  rather  a  quick 
oven  ;  the  batter  should  be  about  thick  enough  for  griddle- 
cakes;  it  will  make  five  or  six  layers.  When  these  are  nearly 
cold,  spread  with  tart  jelly,  or  with  fruit  juice  evaporated 
to  the  consistency  of  a  jelly. 

Or,  prepare  a  "fining,"  as  follows:  Beat  together  one  egg 
(or  whites  of  two),  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Then  grate  two  tart  apples,  stir  these  into 
the  egg,  lemon  and  sugar,  and  heat  in  a  farina-kettle  till  all 
are  smoking  hot.  Bemove  from  the  fire,  cool,  and  spread 
between  the  cakes. 

Layer  Cake. 

Make  a  batter  like  the  preceding,  only  stiffer;  do  this  by 
adding  to  the  above  measurement,  half  a  cup  of  sifted  flour, 
Graham  or  white  ;  and  when  the  batter  is  mixed,  bake 
quickly,  in  thin  layers.  Then  make  a  soft  custard,  as  fol- 
lows :  Heat  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  just  to  a  boil,  and 
thicken  it  with  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  with  a 
little  cream  or  milk;  beat  together  one  egg  and  one-third  of 


284  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

a  cup  of  sugar,  add  the  hot  mixture  to  it,  stirring  in  a  little 
at  a  time,  and  return  to  the  fire.  Stir  constantly  till  the 
custard  thickens;  then  set  it  off.  When  nearly  cold  spread 
it  on  the  layers,  place  them  on  top  of  each  other  in  a  plate, 
and.  set  away  in  a  tin  bread-box,  or  inside  a  stone  jar 
closely  covered.  Serve  with  canned  cherries,  or  other  tart 
fruit. 

Another  way  is  to  make  a  batter  as  for  Graham  sponge 
cake  (either  recipe,  doubling  the  quantities),  bake  in  thin 
layers,  and  then  prepare  the  custard  as  before. 

Graham  Rusk.4(= 

1  pint  new  milk. 

i  cup  sugar,  rolled  fine. 

J     "    good  hop  yeast. 

3  eggs,  beaten  with  the  sugar. 

Flour  for  sponge  and  dough. 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil,  and  cool  to  blood  heat ;  then 
thicken  with  white  flour,  adding  the  yeast ;  the  batter 
should  be  thin  enough  to  pour  from  the  spoon.  Set  this 
sponge  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  into  the  mix- 
ing-bowl three  cups  of  sifted  Graham,  and  three  and  a  half 
cups  of  white  flour,  also  sifted  ;  stir  these  together.  Make 
a  well  in  the  middle,  pour  in  the  sponge,  and  add  the  eggs 
and  sugar  ;  then  mix  to  the  consistency  of  ordinary  bread 
or  a  little  softer,  and  knead  very  thoroughly.  Set  in  a  warm 
place  till  light ;  when  ready  knead  again,  and  mould  into 
biscuits  the  size  of  an  egg.  Let  these  rise,  then  brush  the 
tops  with  the  white  of  egg  beaten  with  a  little  sugar,  and 
bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Graham  Rusk. 

1  cup  new  milk. 
|     "    sugar. 


PAKT  III.]  CAKE-MAKING.  285 

^  cup  good  hop  yeast. 

2  eggs. 

Flour  for  sponge  and  dougii. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  cool  to  blood  heat ;  beat  the  eggs  and 
sugar  together,  add  the  yeast  and  milk,  and  thicken  with 
white  flour,  forming  a  batter  not  very  stiff.  Set  this  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  ;  it  will  require  from  three  to  four  hours, 
according  to  temperature  and  strength  of  yeast.  When 
light,  mix  with  equal  parts  sifted  Graham  and  white  flour, 
until  a  tolerably  stiff  dough  is  formed  ;  knead  well,  and 
leave  in  a  warm  place  till  risen.  Then  work  into  small 
cakes,  let  these  rise,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes. 

A  good  rusk  is  made  as  follows  :  Take  two  cups  of  raised 
dough,  and  work  into  it  two  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar, 
beaten  together  ;  add  enough  flour,  Graham  or  white,  to 
make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to  mould.  Then  knead  well, 
set  to  rise,  and  as  soon  as  light  mould  into  cakes  ;  when 
risen  sufficiently,  bake. 

Mush  Rusk. 

1  pint  hot  corn  meal  mush. 

1  "    new  milk,  scalding  hot. 
-J  cup  sugar. 

J     "    good  hop  yeast. 

2  eggs. 

Flour  for  mixing. 
Time— 20  to  30  minutes. 

Sift  into  the  bread-bowl  about  a  quart  each,  of  Graham 
and  white  flour  ;  make  a  well  in  the  center,  add  the  hot 
mush,  and  stir  in  the  scalding  milk.  Let  this  mixture  cool 
to  blood  heat ;  then  add  the  yeast,  and  the  sugar  and  eggs 
beaten  together,  and  work  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a 
dough  that  will  mould.     Knead  thoroughly,  and  let  it  rise 


286  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

over  night;  then  knead  again,  and  make  into  small  biscuits; 
when  these  have  risen,  bake  in  an  even  oven  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes. 

Oat  Meal  Snaps.^ 
1  cup  sweet  cream. 
3  tablespoonfuls  crushed  sugar. 
Fine  oat  meal,  to  form  a  dough  that  will  roll. 

Stir  the  cream  and  sugar  together,  till  the  latter  is  well 
dissolved  ;  then  mix  with  a  spoon,  adding  meal  to  form  a 
dough  stiff  enough  to  mould.  Knead  slightly  with  the 
hand,  roll  to  the  thickness  of  an  eighth  of  an  inch,  and  cut 
into  small  round  cakes.  Then  place  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  bake  to  a  light  brown ;  they  should  be  crisp  and 
tender  when  done. 

Fruit  Cracker. — ( Graham.)^. 

|  cup  sweet  cream. 

1     "    currants,  picked,  washed  and  dried. 

\  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

\  "  cream-tartar. 

Flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough. 

Put  into  the  tray  one  heaping  cup  of  sifted  Graham,  and 
the  same  of  white  flour  ;  mix  well  together.  Sift  the  cream 
of  tartar  through  it  two  or  three  times  ;  then  wet  with  the 
cream,  into  which  the  dissolved  soda  has  been  stirred,  form- 
ing a  very  stiff  dough ;  quite  too  stiff  to  adhere  to  the 
moulding-board.  Knead  as  little  as  possible,  and  roll  out  a 
very  thin  sheet,  less  than  an  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness. 
Spread  this  with  a  good  layer  of  the  fruit,  enough  to  cover 
the  dough  ;  the  currants  must  be  thoroughly  dried  after 
washing.  When  the  fruit  is  spread,  roll  another  thin  sheet 
and  lay  it  on  ;  press  well  together,  and  pass  the  rolling-pin 
lightly  over  the  whole,  to  make  an  even  surface.     Then  cut 


PAKT  III.]  CAKE-MAKING.  287 

into  small  cakes,  round  or  square,  prick  deeply  with  a  fork, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  thoroughly  done  and  hard. 

Fruit  Cracker. 

Substitute  "middlings  "  or  "  connell "  for  the  Graham  and 
white  flour,  and  make  like  the  preceding.  Or  the  Lockport 
flour  may  be  used,  instead  of  middlings. 

Sally  Lunn. 

1  pint  sweet  cream. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

\  cup  yeast. 

1  "    sifted  Graham  flour. 

3£  cups  "      white         "  —  or    enough   for   a   strir 
batter. 

Warm  the  cream  to  blood  heat ;  then  beat  and  add  the 
yolks,  and  stir  in  the  yeast ;  and  if  the  weather  is  cold  have 
the  flour  slightly  warmed.  Thicken  with  the  latter,  stirring 
in  first  the  Graham  flour  and  then  the  white  ;  the  batter 
should  be  pretty  stiff.  Then  stir  in  the  whites  whipped  to 
a  good  froth,  and  beat  thoroughly  ;  pour  the  batter  into  a 
pan,  well  oiled,  and  set  it  to  rise.  "When  light  enough,  bake 
from  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  or  until  a  broom-straw  thrust 
into  the  thickest  portion,  comes  out  clean  ;  you  will  need  a 
pretty  hot  oven.  The  cake  should  not  be  more  than  an  inch 
and  a  half  in  thickness,  when  done.  Serve  warm  (not  hot) 
from  the  bake-pan. 

Sally  Lunn. 

2  cups  sour  cream — or  enough  for  thick  batter. 
2      "     (scant)  sifted  Graham  flour. 

2      "     sifted  white  flour. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 


288  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III, 

Make  a  batter  of  the  cream,  eggs  and  flour,  add  the  dis- 
solved soda,  and  beat  well ;  then  pour  it  into  a  small  pan,  well 
oiled,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  done  ;  test  with  a 
broom-straw,  the  same  as  ordinary  cake.  Serve  fifteen 
minutes  after  it  comes  from  the  oven. 


PIES,  Etc. 

Cream    Paste. =j^ 

Take  equal  parts  of  Graham  and  white  flour,  sifted,  and 
stir  the  two  together  ;  then  wet  with  cold  sweet  cream  ;  the 
colder  the  cream  and  flour,  the  crisper  the  paste.  Mix  as 
lightly  and  quickly  as  possible,  forming  a  stiff  dough ;  do 
not  knead,  but  gather  up  the  fragments  of  paste,  and  begiu 
to  roll  out  immediately ;  or  set  it  in  the  ice-chest  til/ 
wanted. 

This  recipe  is  so  often  called  for,  that  it  is  given  here  ac 
well  as  in  Part  IL,  to  which  the  reader  is  referred  for 
details. 

Pie-Crust  Glaze. 

In  making  pumpkin  or  custard  pies,  or  any  that  are  very 
juicy,  as  cherry  or  currant,  the  crust  is  apt  to  become  satu- 
rated with  the  soft  mixture,  unless  they  are  eaten  as  soon 
as  done.  To  prevent  this,  a  good  plan  is  said  to  be  to  roll 
out  the  crust  and  wet  it  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg, 
before  adding  the  filling ;  the  egg  hardens  in  baking,  and 
prevents  the  moisture  from  soaking  into  the  crust. 

A  better  way  for  fruit  pies  requiring  sugar,  particularly 
if  they  are  juicy,  is  to  line  the  pie-pans,  and  sprinkle  first 
with  a  little  flour,  and  then  with  the  sugar,  brushing  the 
two  together  with  the  hand;  during  the  baking  the  flour 
and  melted  sugar  adhere  together,  and  keep  the  juice  from 
coming  in  contact  with  the  paste. 


part  iii.]  pies,  etc.  289 

Fruit  Pies.  4^ 

Nearly  all  fruits,  as  apples,  peaches,  plums,  cherries,  and 
all  the  small  fruits,  make  excellent  pies.  Having  mixed  a 
firm  cream  paste,  roll  it  thin,  and  line  the  pie-pans;  then 
put  in  the  fruit,  and  for  apples,  peaches,  raspberries,  etc., 
that  are  not  very  juicy,  add  a  little  water.  Sweeten  to  taste, 
if  the  fruit  is  tart  enough  to  require  sugar;  lay  on  the  top 
crust,  secure  the  edges,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes.  When  done,  the  upper  and  under  crusts 
should  be  thoroughly  baked,  and  moderately  browned;  too 
often  the  top  is  burnt  or  blistered,  and  the  bottom  scorched 
or  doughy. 

Family  pies,  or  "  cobblers,"  are  made  in  deep  dishes,  or 
bread-pans,  having  the  crust  twice  the  usual  thickness,  and 
the  fruit  an  inch  and  a  half  to  two  inches  in  depth'.  If 
baked  without  an  under  crust,  use  granitized  iron  ware,  as 
a  common  iron  pan  will  blacken  the  fruit.  These  pies  re- 
quire  longer  to  bake,  on  account  of  their  size;  apple  cob- 
blers made  with  a  top  crust  only,  will  be  done  in  about 
forty  minutes;  with  a  top  and  bottom  one,  an  hour  to  an 
hour  and  a  quarter  is  needed.  Peach  cobblers  made  of 
clingstones,  the  fruit  not  overripe,  take  nearly  twice  as  long. 
The  small  fruits  require  less  time  for  baking  than  the 
others;  as  soon  as  the  crusts  are  done,  the  pies  can  be  taken 
out.  For  particulars  in  making  fruit  pies,  see  Part  II., 
Pastries. 

Peach  Meringue  Pie. 

Peel  peaches  of  fine  rich  flavor,  remove  the  stones,  and 
stew  moderately  in  a  very  little  water;  then  mash  fine, 
adding  sugar  if  desired.  Fill  a  pie-pan  lined  with  ordinary 
cream  paste,  and  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or 
till  the  crust  is  well  done.  Then  beat  together  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of 


290  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  HL 

half  a  lemon;  spread  this  over  the  pie,  return  it  to  the 
oven,  and  brown  slightly.     Serve  cold. 

Tart  sliced  apples,  stewed  in  a  little  water  till  soft,  are 
made  into  pies  in  the  same  way;  and  good  dried  apples  or 
peaches,  stewed  till  tender  and  mashed  fine,  may  also  be 
used. 

Custard  Pie. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 
\  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  flour. 

In  point  of  healthfulness,  custard  pies  are  infinitely  in- 
ferior to  fruit  pies;  the  eggs,  milk  and  sugar  (without 
which  a  custard  can  not  be  made),  are  all  of  them  heavy 
and  clogging  to  the  liver;  and  none  the  less  so,  from  the 
fact  that  they  are  baked  together. 

Many  persons  object  to  the  "  eggy  "  taste  in  custard  pies, 
and  prefer  if  they  eat  them  to  use  less  eggs,  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  or  corn-starch,  and  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Others  dislike  siveet  custards,  and  think  them  not  only  more 
wholesome  but  more  delicate,  when  very  little  sugar  is  used. 
If  you  have  the  watered  milk  of  the  cities,  you  can  hardly 
make  a  custard.  First  of  all,  then,  take  good  milk;  heat  it 
to  boiling,  and  add  the  flour  wet  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
little  cold  milk;  stir  till  the  mixture  comes  again  to  a  boil. 
Then  remove  from  the  fire;  when  nearly  cold  beat  the 
yolks,  whip  in  the  sugar,  and  stir  them  in;  also  the  whites 
cut  to  a  good  froth.  Line  the  pie-pans  with  a  very  stiff 
cream  paste,  pour  in  the  custard,  and  bake  in  an  oven  that 
heats  well  at  the  bottom;  take  out  the  pies  the  moment 
they  are  firm  in  the  center,  and  be  sure  the  crust  is  done. 

If  flavoring  is  wanted,  beat  together  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  half   a 


PAET  III.]  PIES,  ETC.  291 

lemon;  spread  this  over  the  top,  and  brown  slightly.    Serve 
soon  after  the  pies  are  baked. 

To  prevent  the  custard  from  soaking  into  the  crust,  a 
good  plan  is  said  to  be  to  moisten  the  latter  with  the 
beaten  white  of  an  egg,  before  filling.  All  custard  pies 
should  be  removed  from  the  pans  and  put  on  plates,  as 
soon  as  they  come  from  the  oven;  this  allows  the  moisture 
to  escape  from  the  bottom,  and  prevents  the  crust  from 
getting  wet  and  heavy. 

Apple  Custard  Pie. 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

3      "     apple,  grated  or  stewed. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1  tablespoonful  white  flour. 

Prepare  the  apples  by  stewing  in  as  little  water  as  will 
cook  them;  then  mash  fine  and  smooth;  they  must  not  be 
very  tart.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  and  whip 
them  into  the  apple;  then  stir  in  the  flour,  and  add  the 
milk.  Stir  in  also  the  whites,  well  beaten,  and  pour  the  cus- 
tard into  pie-pans  lined  with  a  good  cream  paste;  the  latter 
should  be  mixed  quite  stiff,  and  made  of  equal  parts  Gra- 
ham and  white  flour,  sifted.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till 
the  custard  is  set,  but  no  longer;  see  that  there  is  sufficient 
heat  at  the  bottom  to  brown  the  crust. 

Dried  apples,  stewed  in  a  little  water  till  they  are  tender, 
and  then  mashed  fine,  may  be  used  in  this  pie. 

Rice  Custard  Pie. — (Excellent.)^ 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

2  "     boiled  rice. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  eggs,  volks  and  whites  separate. 
20 


292  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

The  rice  should  be  boiled  in  water  till  thoroughly  soft, 
but  not  broken.  Cold  rice  left  over  will  do,  but  it  is  not  so 
good;  if  this  is  used  put  it  into  the  milk,  warm  to  blood 
heat,  and  mix  thoroughly,  crushing  the  lumps  with  a  fork. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  stir  them  into  the  milk 
and  rice,  and  mix  well;  then  stir  in  the  well- whipped 
whites.  Line  the  pie-pans  with  a  firm  cream  paste,  set 
them  in  the  oven,  and  fill  with  the  rice  custard.  Bake  with 
a  slow  even  heat  till  it  is  barely  set,  and  serve  as  soon  as 
cooled  to  lukewarm;  see  that  the  crust  is  well  done.  This 
is  a  plain  but  very  delicate  pie,  and  easily  made;  the  above 
mixture  will  make  three  pies  of  ordinary  size. 

Cocoa-Nut  Custard  Pie. 

1  quart  new  milk. 

^  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1  cocoa-nut,  pared  and  grated. 

1  tablespoonful  corn-starch. 

The  fiber  of  the  cocoa-nut  is  apt  to  give  trouble  to  weak 
stomachs;  for  this  reason,  it  is  best  to  dispense  with  all  but 
its  juices.  Stir  the  grated  nut  into  the  milk,  pour  the  latter 
into  a  farina-kettle,  and  bring  it  nearly  to  a  boil,  stirring 
once  or  twice;  then  mix  in  the  corn-starch  wet  in  a  little 
cold  milk,  and  cook  one  minute;  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
when  cool  enough  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  or  fine 
colander.  Beat  the  yolks,  then  the  sugar  with  them,  and 
stir  them  into  the  strained  milk;  add  also  the  cocoa-nut 
milk  if  it  is  perfectly  sweet,  and  the  whites  whipped  to  a 
good  froth;  stir  well  together,  and  bake  in  two  pie-pans 
lined  with  a  very  stiff  cream  paste.  Have  a  moderate  oven, 
and  bake  only  till  the  custard  is  set;  then  slip  from  the 
pans  to  plates,  as  soon  as  the  pies  come  from  the  oven. 
Serve  cold,  the  day  they  are  baked. 


part  ni.]  PIES,  ETC.  293 

Corn-Starch  Custard  Pie. 

1  quart  sweet  milk, 
f  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
3  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Heat  the  milk  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  corn-starch  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  cook  one  minute,  stirring  constantly. 
Kemove  from  the  fire,  and  while  it  is  cooling  prepare  a  stiff 
cream  paste,  half  Graham  (sifted),  and  line  the  pie-pans 
with  it.  Set  these  in  the  oven  to  heat  through;  beat  the 
yolks  and  one  of  the  whites  together,  whip  in  half  a  cup  of 
the  sugar,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk.  Then  fill  the  pans 
with  the  custard,  and  bake  in  an  even  oven  till  it  is  just  set; 
beat  the  remainder  of  the  whites,  the  lemon,  and  the  rest  of 
the  sugar  together,  and  spread  over  the  tops;  close  the 
oven,  and  heat  till  the  meringue  tinges.  Take  the  pies  out, 
slip  them  on  plates,  and  set  in  a  cool  place;  serve  cold  or 
nearly  so,  soon  after  baking. 

Lemon  Pie.^ 

2  cups  sweet  milk, 
f  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
2  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 
Juice  of  two  lemons. 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  the  corn- 
starch wet  with  a  little  cold  milk;  let  the  mixture  boil  five 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  to 
cool;  beat  the  yolks,  lemon  and  sugar  together,  and  when 
the  milk  is  nearly  cold  stir  them  into  it ;  then  the  whites, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Fill  the  pie-pans,  lined  with  a  firm 
cream  paste  (equal  parts  Graham  and  white  flour,  sifted), 


294  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  the  custard  is  barely  set ; 
the  crust  must  be  well  done.  Serve  cold  the  same  day;  the 
above  will  make  one  large  or  two  small  pies. 

Lemon  Pie. — (  With  Meringue.)^: 

2  cups  boiling  water. 
|  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
2  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 
Juice  of  two  lemons. 

"Wet  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  pour  the 
boiling  water  over  it,  stirring  well  meanwhile  ;  let  this  get 
nearly  cold.  Then  beat  the  yolks,  first  by  themselves,  then 
with  the  lemon  and  two-thirds  of  the  sugar,  add  the  corn- 
starch water,  and  stir  thoroughly.  Then  dip  the  mixture 
into  two  pie-pans  lined  with  a  stiff  cream  paste,  and  bake  in 
an  oven  not  too  hot ;  brown  well  at  the  bottom,  and  take  out 
the  moment  the  pies  are  done.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth  with  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  and  spread  over  the  tops  ; 
return  to  the  oven,  close  the  door,  and  brown  slightly. 
Serve  cold,  soon  after  baking. 

Irish  Potato  Pee.  4^ 

1  quart  sweet  milk — or  part  cream. 

!£■  cups  mashed  potato,  dry  and  mealy. 

\  cup  (nearly)  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 
Mix  the  potato  well  with  the  milk,  and  put  through  a 
colander  to  remove  lumps.  Then  beat  the  yolks,  lemon  and 
sugar  together,  and  stir  them  in ;  add  the  whites  cut  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  stir  well.  Line  three  pie-pans  with  a  good 
cream  paste  mixed  stiff,  fill  with  the  batter,  and  bake  in  an 
even  oven  till  the  pies  are  done  ;  see  that  the  crust  is  well 
browned.     Serve  cold  the  same  day. 


pakt  iii.]  pies,  etc.  295 

Irish  Potato  Pie. 

3  cups  new  milk. 

1  cup  (heaping)  mashed  potato,  dry  and  mealy. 

J     "    sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 
Mix  the  milk  and  potato  thoroughly,  and  rub  through  a 
colander  ;  then  beat  together  the  yolks,  one  of  the  whites, 
half  the  sugar  and  half  the  lemon  ;  stir  these  into  the  milk 
and  potato,  and  bake  in  two  pans,  lined  with  a  stiff  cream 
paste  ;  the  oven  must  be  moderate.  As  soon  as  done  cover 
with  a  meringue  made  by  beating  together  the  two  whites, 
and  the  rest  of  the  lemon  and  sugar,  heat  till  it  changes 
color,  and  take  the  pies  from  the  oven.     Eat  cold. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie.  4^ 
3  cups  sweet  milk. 

1  cup       "      potato. 
J      "     sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Boil  the  sweet  potatoes,  good  sound  ones,  in  a  little 
water  till  tender.  Kemove  the  skins,  and  trim  off  any  de- 
fective spots  on  the  surface  or  ends ;  in  wet  seasons,  there 
is  often  a  dark  layer  just  beneath  the  skin.  Grate  the  po- 
tato or  mash  fine,  till  you  have  a  cupful ;  mix  this  well  with 
the  milk,  leaving  no  lumps  ;  or  you  may  put  the  milk  and 
potato  through  a  colander.  Then  beat  the  yolks,  lemon  and 
sugar  together,  and  stir  in  the  milk  and  potato  ;  add  the 
well-whipped  whites,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Line  two  pie- 
pans  with  a  very  firrn  cream  paste,  set  them  in  the  oven, 
and  fill  with  the  potato  batter  ;  bake  rather  slowly  until  the 
center  is  thickened,  and  almost  firm.  Then  remove  the 
pies  from  the  oven,  slip  from  the  tins  to  plates,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place.     Serve  cold  the  day  you  make  them. 


296  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 4|= 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1J-  pints  stewed  pumpkin. 

2  even  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

In  preparing  the  pumpkin,  which  should  be  ripe  and  of 
good  quality,  peel,  slice  and  cut,  removing  the  seeds  ;  then 
stew  till  tender,  but  not  long  enough  to  change  its  color. 
Let  it  get  thoroughly  soft  before  you  stir  it ;  and  start  in  so 
little  water  that  it  will  not  be  too  wet  when  done  ;  you  can, 
if  necessary,  add  a  trifle  of  boiling  water  as  it  stews.  After 
stirring,  cook  very  little  ;  much  cooking  destroys  the  fine 
fresh  flavor  of  the  pumpkin,  which  is  its  greatest  excellence. 
The  best  for  pies  or  sauce,  is  one  that  is  known  West  as  the 
"  Yankee  "  pumpkin  ;  it  is  largely  cultivated  in  New  Eng- 
land, and  is  the  color  of  a  very  ripe  orange. 

When  stewed  add  a  portion  of  the  milk,  and  rub  through 
a  colander  or  mash  fine,  to  remove  the  lumps  ;  if  it  is  sweet 
and  ripe,  no  sugar  will  be  needed.  If  only  of  ordinary 
quality,  add  the  sugar  to  the  yolks,  and  beat  well  together  ; 
stir  these  into  the  pumpkin,  add  the  whites  whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Then  stir  in  the  rest  of 
the  milk,  and  dip  into  pie-pans  lined  with  a  stiff  cream 
paste  ;  make  this  of  equal  parts  Graham  and  white  flour, 
sifted.  Have  a  moderate  oven,  heating  well  at  the  bottom, 
and  bake  till  the  pies  are  barely  firm  in  the  center ;  then 
take  them  out,  slip  from  the  tins  to  plates,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  Serve  warm  or  cold ;  they  are  best,  eaten  an  hour 
after  baking. 

Pumpkin  Pie. — (With  less  Eggs.)^ 

When  eggs  are  scarce,  a  very  fair  pie  may  be  made  by 
using  only  one  egg  to  two  pies  ;  and  a  good  way  is  to  stir 
half  the  milk  into  the  pumpkin,  heat  the  other  half  to  boil 


paut  in.  J  PIES,  ETC.  297 

ing,  and  stir  it  into  the  cold  batter  the  last  thing  before 
bciidng.  Xt  is  better  when  few  eggs  are  used,  not  to  mix 
too  thin  ;  you  may  take  nearly  as  much  pumpkin  as  there 
is  milk ;  and  a  little  flour  stirred  into  the  batter  before 
wnipping  in  the  eggs,  is  an  improvement.  Bake  till  the 
pies  are  firm  in  the  center,  and  eat  the  day  you  make  them. 
In  the  absence  of  cream  paste,  you  may  oil  the  pie-pans, 
and  sift  either  fine  oat  meal  ("  A  "  grade),  or  fine  corn  meal 
over  them,  and  then  fill  with  the  batter,  and  bake.  Or  you 
may  oil  the  pans,  and  strew  with  finely  grated  bread-crumbs, 
dry  and  stale  ;  or  rolled  crackers,  if  you  have  them.  Of 
course,  a  crust  made  after  either  of  these  methods,  will  not 
be  equal  to  good  cream  paste. 

Pumpkix  Pie. — (  Without  Eggs.) 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

3      -     stewed  pumpkin. 

2  tablespoonfuls  molasses  or  syrup. 

2  (even)  tablesj)oonfuls  white  flour. 

If  you  have  not  pure  molasses  use  melted  sugar,  brown 
or  maple.  Mix  the  flour  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  a  little 
cold  milk  or  water;  then  stir  it  into  the  milk,  and  bring  the 
latter  to  a  boil.  Heat  in  a  farina-kettle,  or  a  tin  bucket  set 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  often.  Mix  the  molasses 
through  the  cold  pumpkin,  and  beat  thoroughly;  then  stir 
in  the  hot  milk.  The  pumpkin  should  be  stewed  rather  dry. 
Dip  immediately  into  pie-pans  lined  with  a  firm  cream 
paste,  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven;  the  mixture  will  make 
one  large,  or  two  small  pies.  Bake  till  they  are  done  in  the 
center,  but  no  longer. 

If  to  be  eaten  the  same  day,  slip  them  out  of  the  pans 
into  plates.  They  are  good  cold  or  warm — not  hot.  If  in- 
tended for  the  next  day,  set  away  in  the  pans,  provided 
these  are  free  from  rust;  when  wanted  for  the  table,  place 


298  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

on  top  of  the  stove  where  the  crust  will  heat  through 
quickly,  without  scorching;  this  makes  it  crisp  and  tender, 
as  if  fresh  from  the  oven. 

Squash  Pie.^ 

Stew  the  squash  till  soft,  having  it  rather  moist ;  then 

mash  fine.     For  three  pies  take  three  eggs,  four  cups  of 

milk,  and  two  of  squash;  and  if  the  latter  is  not  pretty 

sweet,  add  to  it  one  heaping  or  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of 

sugar.    In  mixing,  first  add  a  cup  of  the  milk  to  the  squash, 

and  rub  through  a  colander  or  fine  sieve;  then  beat  the 

yolks  and  sugar  together,  and  stir  them  in;  add  also  the 

whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  hard.     Stir  in  the 

rest  of  the  milk,  and  fill  the   pie-pans  lined  with  a  stiff 

cream  paste;  bake  till  the  batter  is  thick  in  the  middle,  but 

not  a  moment  longer.     When  done  remove  the  pies  from 

the  pans,  put  them  on  plates,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.     Eat 

the  day  they  are  baked — or  better,  half  an  hour  after  they 

leave  the  oven. 

Lemon  Tart. 

|  cup  sugar. 

|  "    boiling  water. 

2  lemons — juice  of. 

2  even  teaspoonfuls  corn-starch. 

Wet  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  pour  the 
boiling  water  over  it,  stirring  well  to  prevent  lumping;  then 
add  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  and  stir  all  together.  Bake 
in  a  single  pie,  with  upper  and  under  crust  of  good  cream 
paste.  In  this,  as  in  other  tarts,  roll  the  crusts  thin,  and 
bake  quickly. 

Green  Apple  Tart.=)^ 

Pare,  core  and  slice  tart  June  apples,  not  quite  ripe,  and 
fill  two  pie-pans  lined  with  a  stiff  cream  paste;  make  this 
of  equal  parts  Graham  and  white  flour,  sifted.     Fill  the 


PART  III.]  PIES,  ETC.  299 

pans  pretty  full;  and  unless  the  apples  are  very  juicy,  add 
a  trifle  of  water.  Cover  with  the  paste,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  till  the  fruit  is  well  done,  and  the  bottom  and  top 
crusts  nicely  browned.  Then  take  out  the  pies,  and  slip 
from  the  pans  to  plates  ;  split  each  one  open  with  a  knife, 
lay  the  top  crusts  on  separate  plates,  and  spread  half  the 
apple  on  them.  While  still  hot,  sprinkle  well  with  good 
brown  sugar,  maple  if  you  have  it,  and  send  (on  the  four 
plates)  to  the  table.  Serve  with  or  without  a  dressing  of 
cream;  they  are  excellent. 

Currant  Tart. 
Take  red  currants  that  are  about  half  or  two-thirds  ripe, 
strip  them  from  the  stems,  and  fill  your  pie-pans  lined  with 
a  good  cream  paste;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  lay  on  the  top 
crust,  and  make  the  edges  secure.  Then  prick  well  with  a 
fork,  and  cut  a  cross-slit  in  the  center;  or,  what  is  prettier, 
ornament  with  a  knife,  making  "leafy  sprays,"  for  the 
escape  of  steam.  Bake  quickly  till  the  crusts  are  done, 
then  set  away  to  cool. 

Kaspberry  and  Currant  Tart. 

Pick  the  ripe  currants  from  the  stems,  and  mix  with 
them  an  equal  quantity  of  red  or  black  raspberries ;  then 
proceed  as  in  the  last  recipe. 

Strawberries,  blackberries,  huckleberries,  and  seeded 
cherries,  are  made  into  pies  or  tarts,  the  same  as  currants  ; 
except  that  the  fruits  which  are  not  so  acid,  require  less 
sugar. 

Cream  Kaspberry  Tart. 

Scald  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  and  stir  into  it  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk;  boil  two 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Then  beat  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  into  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  stir  them  in;  cook  a 
minute  longer,  and  remove  from  the  fire  to  cooL 


300  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

In  the  mean  time  make  a  stiff  cream  paste,  and  line  a 
dish  that  is  two  inches  deep;  fill  it  two-thirds  full  of  rasp- 
berries, sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar,  and  cover  with  a  crust ; 
do  not  pinch  it  down  at  the  edge.  Both  crusts  should  be 
somewhat  thicker  than  for  an  ordinary  pie.  Bake  in  a  good 
even  oven  till  done,  top  and  bottom.  When  taken  out  lift 
off  the  upper  crust,  and  pour  the  cold  custard  over  the  hot 
fruit;  then  replace,  and  set  the  pie  away  till  perfectly  cold. 
Serve  in  the  bake-pan. 

If  preferred,  make  the  top  crust  of  light  cream  paste,  in- 
stead of  in  the  ordinary  way. 

Steawbeeey  Taet. 
Make  the  same  as  the  last,  and  serve  cold. 

GoOSEBEEEY    TAET. 

Select  fine,  fresh  berries  that  are  beginning  to  ripen; 
remove  the  stems  and  blossoms,  and  wash  in  a  (folander. 
Then  line  the  pie-pans  with  a  firm  cream  paste,  fill  with  the 
fruit,  and  add  sugar  to  taste ;  cover  with  a  crust,  prick  well, 
and  bake  quickly  till  the  pastry  is  done.     Eat  cold. 

Damson  Taet. 

Look  over  and  wash  the  plums,  and  fill  the  pie-pans, 
lined  with  the  ordinary  cream  paste.  Add  sugar  to  sweeten, 
lay  on  the  top  crust,  and  pinch  the  edges  securely  together; 
then  either  prick  with  a  fork,  finishing  with  a  cross-slit  in 
the  center  of  the  crust,  or  ornament  with  a  knife  in  such  a 
way  as  to  let  the  steam  out  in  baking.  Have  a  good  oven, 
and  bake  till  well  done,  top  and  bottom.     Serve  cold. 

Ceanbeeey  Taet. 

Pick  over  the  berries,  rejecting  all  that  are  not  sound  ; 
then  wash,  and  stew  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  allowing,  say  two 


PART  III.]  THE    GRAINS.  301 

pails  water  to  three  of  fruit,  by  measure.  Stew  very  slowly 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  coarse  col- 
ander, pressing  through  all  but  the  skins.  Then  return  to 
the  kettle,  and  add  sugar,  allowing  half  or  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  to  a  quart  of  the  picked  berries.  Heat  the  sauce  to 
a  boil,  stir  well,  and  set  it  off  to  cool.  Put  into  pie-pans 
under  crusts  of  stiff  cream  paste,  and  fill  with  the  cran- 
berry; roll  a  bit  of  dough  very  thin,  cut  it  into  strips  less' 
than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide,  and  lay  in  cross-bars  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  apart  over  each  pie,  leaving  the  spaces 
diamond-shaped.  Pinch  down  the  ends,  trim  off  the  dough, 
cutting  it  close  to  the  rim  of  the  pan,  and  finish  the  edges 
neatly.  Bake  till  the  pastry  is  well  done ;  then  slip  from  the 
tins,  place  on  plates,  and  set  away  to  cool. 

Rhubarb  Tart. 

Wash  and  skin  the  stalks,  split  them  once  or  twice  (the 
thin  way  of  the  stalk),  and  cut  in  inch  lengths.  Then  add 
a  little  water,  and  stew  in  a  porcelain  kettle  till  tender  ; 
sweeten  to  taste,  just  before  lifting  from  the  fire  ;  it  will  re- 
quire nearly  half  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  cut  rhubarb. 
Line  the  pans  with  the  usual  cream  paste,  mixed  stiff,  and 
fill  with  the  sauce  ;  then  cover  with  cross-bars  of  thin  paste, 
and  bake  till  the  crust  is  done. 

An  excellent  tart  is  made  as  follows  :  Take  a  granitized 
iron  pan  two  inches  deep,  fill  it  with  cut  rhubarb,  sweeten 
to  taste,  and  cover  with  a  light  cream  paste  ;  prick  well,  cut 
a  slit  in  the  center,  and  bake.     Serve  cold. 

THE  GRAINS. 

Minute  directions  have  been  given  in  Part  II.  for  steam- 
ing the  grains.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  they  are  very 
good  and  very  wholesome — provided  you  do  not  spoil  them 
by  serving  with  cream  and  sugar.  "  How  shall  we  eat 
them  ?  "  is  the  question  often  asked.     With  the  rare  fruit 


302  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

juices,  of  course ;  try  them.  Prepare  these  in  summer  when 
fruits  are  plenty,  and  seal  in  cans  for  winter  use.  (You  will 
find  special  directions  for  making  them  in  Part  II.)  The 
juices  of  strawberries,  raspberries,  currants,  or  raspberries 
and  currants  mixed,  are  truly  delightful ;  so  are  those  of 
cherries,  blackberries,  grapes  and  gooseberries.  Or  the 
fruits,  either  stewed  or  canned,  make  a  good  dressing. 

To  the  unperverted  palate,  the  grains  and  mushes  are  very 
good  eaten  simply  with  the  hard  Graham  roll,  or  with  dry 
toast.  A  little  mashed  potato,  dry  and  mealy,  just  enough 
to  "  feather  "  the  bit  of  mush  or  grain  on  the  end  of  the 
fork,  is  not  a  bad  accompaniment.  If  you  do  not  like  this 
combination,  and  have  not  the  fruits,  then  the  next  best 
plan  is  to  stir  into  the  dish  of  grain,  just  as  you  take  it  from 
the  steamer,  a  very  little  cream  ;  not  more  than  a  third  of  a 
teacupful  to  all  the  family  will  eat.  If  they  can  not 
relish  the  grains  in  any  of  these  ways,  let  them  try  the 
"  fruit  and  bread  "  diet  for  a  few  days,  which  will  be  all  the 
better  for  the  stomach.  Should  so  plain  a  regimen  fail  to 
satisfy,  fasting  is  the  proper  remedy. 

MUSHES. 

These  are  served  the  same  as  the  grains  ;  the  methods  of 
preparing  mushes  are  fully  described  in  Part  II. 

PUDDINGS. 

Puddings,  at  best,  are  scarcely  considered  hygienic ;  as 
usually  made  and  served,  they  are  decidedly  objectionable  ; 
but  as  they  might  be  made,  they  are  perhaps  as  healthful" 
as  half  or  two-thirds  of  the  other  dishes  that  will  be  found 
in  Part  HX  In  other  words,  they  are  "  at  home "  with 
cakes,  custards,  custard  pies,  fancy  desserts,  eggs,  omelets, 
fish,  poultry,  game,  and  an  endless  variety  of  meats  and 
meat  preparations — to   say  nothing   of   worse   things  not 


PART  III.]  PUDDINGS.  303 

herein  mentioned,  and  that  have  long  since  been  banished 
entirely  from  tables  making  any  pretensions  to  hygiene. 

Those  who  really  desire  to  live  hygienically — and  there- 
fore healthfully — will  find  it  to  their  advantage  to  select  in 
the  main  from  Part  II.,  leaving  Part  III.  for  only  occasional 
reference. 

Many  of  the  puddings  described  in  the  following  recipes, 
are  made  chiefly  of  fruits  and  cereals,  and  contain  as  little 
as  possible  of  that  very  unhygienic  combination,  "  milk, 
eggs  and  sugar,"  which  is  so  bad  for  the  liver.  And  the 
dressings,  when  any  are  used,  are  most  of  them  as  plain  as 
the  puddings  themselves  ;  they  contain  no  brandies,  sher- 
ries, or  other  wines  ;  no  spices,  no  butter,  and  not  a  large 
amount  of  sugar. 

A  number  of  the  very  plain  puddings,  are  little  else  than 
simple  fruit  preparations,  to  be  eaten  cold  ;  they  are  conven- 
ient to  have  in  summer,  when  meals  are  prepared  with  as 
little  fire  as  possible.  And  many  of  the  puddings  that  are 
to  be  eaten  "  lukewarm,"  may  be  served  cold,  if  desired. 

"When  bread-crumbs  are  used  in  the  making,  have  them 
dry,  and  rather  stale  ;  and  part  at  least,  of  good  home-made 
Graham  loaf,  unsweetened.  If  sweet  fruits,  as  currants  or 
raisins,  are  among  the  ingredients  required,  look  them  over 
carefully,  wash  in  a  colander  till  they  are  free  from  sediment, 
and  then  dry  thoroughly  before  dredging  with  flour.  Use 
no  spices  or  pungent  flavorings,  and  of  course  no  wines  or 
brandies,  either  in  the  puddings  or  sauces.  Butter,  too,  had 
better  be  omitted  from  both  ;  when  it  is  cooked  or  heated, 
it  is  particularly  indigestible.  If  eggs  enter  into  the  com- 
bination, see  that  they  are  fresh  ;  and  separate  the  yolks 
and  whites  carefully  before  beating.  In  oiling  the  dishes 
have  them  cold,  to  prevent  sticking  ;  take  for  this  purpose 
the  fat  from  clean  dripping,  or  a  little  pure  olive  oil. 

If  the  ordinary  Graham  flour  is  used,  you  may  have  to 
put  it  through  a  coarse  sieve.     Endeavor  to  get  pure  soda 


304  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

and  cream  of  tartar,  and  take  these  instead  of  baking- 
powder,  unless  you  know  the  latter  to  be  free  from  adulter- 
ations. The  "Price,"  or  the  "Boyal,"  is  thought  to  be 
as  good  as  any  ;  these  powders  are  said  to  contain  no 
foreign  ingredient,  except  starch — of  which  there  is  about 
33  per  cent.  ;  so  that  in  measuring,  it  is  necessary  to  heap 
the  spoon  ;  whereas,  a  "  teaspoonful "  of  soda  or  cream  of 
tartar,  is  the  spoon  filled  not  above  the  level. 

In  making  with  Indian  meal,  particularly  if  the  pudding 
is  to  be  steamed,  get  the  yellow  flint  (golden),  if  possible, 
though  the  white  flint  is  good.  And  in  steaming,  endeavor, 
first,  to  keep  the  water  constantly  at  a  fast  boil ;  second,  if 
any  has  to  be  added,  to  put  it  in  boiling  hot ;  third,  not  to 
open  the  steamer  till  the  pudding  is  done  ;  fourth,  to  send 
to  the  table  as  soon  as  it  is  taken  out.  In  either  steaming 
or  boiling,  allow  plenty  of  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell ; 
if  you  boil,  wring  the  bag  out  of  hot  water,  and  flour  it 
well  inside  before  filling.  Allow  for  swelling  a  space  equal 
to  at  least  one-third  the  volume  of  the  pudding  ;  then  tie 
securely  and  boil,  keeping  plenty  of  water  in  the  pot,  and 
the  latter  closely  covered  ;  turn  the  bag  over  from  time  to 
time.  In  boiling  a  rolly-poly,  a  good  plan  is  simply  to  baste 
a  cloth  loosely  around  it,  flouring  well  inside,  and  allowing 
room  to  swell. 

Puddings  that  in  baking  incline  to  stick  to  the  bottom  or 
sides  of  the  pan,  as  batter  puddings,  green  corn  puddings, 
etc.,  should  be  poured  into  a  dish  (the  latter  well  oiled), 
and  then  set  in  the  oven  within  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling 
water.  Custards,  and  all  puddings  that  contain  milk  and 
eggs,  should  be  managed  in  the  same  way,  baked  very  slowly, 
and  only  till  the  custard  is  set.  If  the  milk  is  to  be  heated, 
do  it  in  a  farina-kettle,  or  a  tin  bucket  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  ;  then  there  is  no  danger  of  scorching.  When  it 
begins  to  boil,  lift  from  the  fire  ;  and  either  cool  to  luke- 
warm before  stirring  it  into  the  beaten  eggs,  or  add  it  a 
little  at  a  time,  to  prevent  curdling. 


PART  III.]  SELECTION    OF   PUDDINGS.  305 

SELECTION  OF  PUDDINGS. 

Bird's-Nest  Pudding.^ 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

12  apples,  rather  tart,  medium  size. 
|  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
|     "    currants,  picked  and  washed. 
£     "    sugar. 
3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

Time — for  custard,  20  to  30  minutes,  slow  oven. 
Pare  and  core  the  apples,  place  them  closely  together  in 
a  shallow  pudding-dish  (earthen  or  granitized  iron),  and  fill 
the  centers  with  the  raisins  and  currants.  Then  add  a  little 
water,  just  enough  to  cook  them,  and  bake  till  the  apples 
are  soft,  but  not  broken  to  pieces.  When  done  remove 
from  the  oven,  and  while  the  fruit  is  cooling  beat  the  yolks, 
whip  in  the  sugar,  add  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  flour.  Then 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  them,  and  stir  again  ; 
pour  the  raw  custard  over  the  apples,  and  set  the  dish  into 
the  oven,  inside  a  dripping-pan  containing  a  little  boiling 
water.  Bake  slowly  till  the  custard  is  set,  but  not  till  it 
separates ;  it  will  take  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  lukewarm,  without  a  dressing  ;  this  pudding  is  excel- 
lent. If  you  have  not  the  sweet  fruit,  use  a  little  sugar 
instead. 

Bread  and  Fruit  Pudding. 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

2      "     (scant)  fine  bread-crumbs,  stale. 

2      "     finely  chopped  apples,  rather  tart. 

1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped,  and  dredged  with 

flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Time — an  hour  and  a  quarter,  slow  oven. 


306  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  HI. 

Prepare  the  crumbs,  or  part  of  thern,  from  good  home- 
made Graham  loaf  if  you  have  it  ;  scald  the  milk,  pour  it 
over  them,  and  mix  lightly.  Then  stir  the  sugar  into  the 
beaten  yolks,  and  add  the  bread  and  milk,  a  little  at  a  time; 
or  you  may  wait  till  the  latter  is  cool  enough  not  to  curdle 
the  eggs.  Then  stir  in  the  well-whipped  whites,  and  also 
the  fruit ;  pour  the  batter  into  a  pudding-dish,  and  set  it, 
covered,  in  the  oven,  inside  a  shallow  pan  with  boiling 
water  in  it.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  allowing  an  hour 
and  a  quarter  to  cook  the  fruit.  Serve  nearly  cold,  without 
a  dressing. 

Huckleberries  may  be  substituted  for  the  raisins,  using 
two  cups  instead  of  one,  and  adding  to  the  milk  a  pinch  of 
soda,  dissolved  in  a  very  little  boiling  water  ;  the  soda  must 
be  stirred  in  before  the  fruit  is  added. 

Grated  Apple  Pudding. 

2  cups  sour  cream — or  part  sour  milk. 

3  "     grated  (or  scraped)  apples,  rather  tart. 
2      "     sifted  white  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  fine  corn  meal. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Time — 40  to  50  minutes,  slow  oven. 

Beat  the  yolks,  whip  the  sugar  into  them,  add  the  cream, 
apples,  meal  and  flour,  and  stir  well ;  then  add  the  whites 
cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  also  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Pour  into  a  shallow  pan,  well  oiled,  and  place 
immediately  in  a  very  moderate  oven  ;  or  a  better  way  is  to 
set  the  dish  in  a  dripping-pan,  containing  boiling  water. 
Bake  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes.  The  pudding  should  not  be 
more  than  an  inch  and  a  half  or  two  inches  thick  when 
done  ;  and  it  should  be  delicately  browned,  top  and  bot- 
tom.    You  may  send  it  to  the  table  in  the  bake-dish  ;  or  it 


PART  III.]  SELECTION    OF    PUDDINGS.  307 

can,  with  care,  be  turned  out  on  a  plate,  and  cut  in  pieces 
as  you  serve  it.  It  is  best  eaten  warm  (not  hot),  and  is 
good  enough  without  sauce — though  the  little  woman  who 
used  to  make  this  pudding  "to  perfection,"  passed  it  to  her 
guests  with  genuine  maple  molasses. 

Sweet  cream  or  milk  may  be  used  for  mixing,  instead  of 
sour  ;  in  this  case  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
sifting  it  through  the  flour.    If  preferred,  use  only  two  eggs. 

Rhubarb  Charlotte.  4£ 

3  pints  cut  rhubarb. 

3  cups  fine  bread-crumbs,  stale. 

i  cup  cold  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Time — 40  to  50  minutes. 
Wash,  trim  and  peel  the  stalks  of  rhubarb,  taking  care 
that  there  are  no  worms  hidden  away  in  the  body  of  them. 
Split  each  stalk  once  or  twice,  and  cut  into  very  short  bits. 
Prepare  the  bread-crumbs  from  good  home-made  Graham 
loaf,  rather  stale  ;  then  fill  a  pudding-dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  the  crumbs  and  chopped  rhubarb,  beginning  with 
the  latter,  and  ending  with  the  former.  Make  each  layer  of 
rhubarb  twice  as  thick  as  the  crumbs,  and  sprinkle  the 
sugar  over  as  you  put  it  in.  When  the  dish  is  full  pour 
the  water  over  the  whole,  and  set  it,  covered,  in  the  oven, 
inside  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  slowly  half 
an  hour ;  then  uncover,  and  brown  quickly.  Serve  nearly 
or  quite  cold,  with  or  without  a  dressing  ;  it  is  very  good 
with  mock  cream,  or  lemon  sauce. 

Gooseberries,  just  beginning  to  ripen,  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  rhubarb. 

Sweet- Apple  Pudding. — (Excellent.)^. 
3  quarts  new  milk. 

1  quart  sweet  apples,  finely  chopped. 
21 


308  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 


|  cup  sugar. 


1  pint  (nearly)  coarse  corn  meal. 

Single  handful  white  flour. 

Time — three  to  four  hours,  slow  oven. 
,  Pare,  core  and  slice  the  sweet  apples,  and  chop  them  fine, 
having  a  full  quart  in  all.  Then  put  into  a  stone  or  earthen 
crock,  or  a  farina-kettle,  two  quarts  of  the  milk  ;  if  new 
milk  can  not  be  had,  add  a  cup  of  cream  to  the  skimmed. 
Set  it  on  the  stove,  and  bring  just  to  a  boil ;  if  heated  in  a 
crock,  see  that  the  milk  does  not  scorch  in  the  least.  Then 
stir  in  the  corn  meal,  and  beat  very  thoroughly  to  remove 
lumps.  The  batter,  when  the  meal  has  had  time  to  swell, 
should  be  almost  too  thick  to  pour,  or  about  the  consistency 
of  good  corn  mush.  Let  the  mixture  again  come  to  a  boil, 
and  cook,  stirring  five  to  seven  minutes  ;  then  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  add  the  quart  of  cold  milk  ;  this  will  make  the 
batter  thin  enough  to  pour  readily.  Now  stir  in  the  apples, 
sugar  and  flour,  and  beat  well.  If  the  mixing  has  been 
done  in  a  crock,  set  it  directly  into  the  oven  ;  if  in  a  farina- 
kettle,  pour  the  batter  into  a  deep  pudding-dish,  and  set  it 
in  the  oven,  within  a  dripping-pan  containing  a  pint  or 
more  of  boiling  water.  Bake  slowly,  stirring  several  times 
the  first  hour  ;  the  pudding  should  cook  from  three  to  four 
hours  in  all,  and  be  moderately  browned  on  top  when  done. 
This  excellent  dessert  is  served  cold  or  warm  (not  hot), 
and  without  a  dressing  ;  though  the  juices  of  certain  fruits, 
as  raspberries,  cherries,  etc.,  make  a  very  good  sauce  for  it. 
In  the  mixing,  molasses  or  syrup  may  be  used  instead  of 
sugar  ;  but  the  pudding  is  less  delicate  to  the  taste.  And 
when  sweet  apples  are  not  to  be  had,  those  of  a  mild  but 
rich  sub-acid  flavor,  can  be  substituted. 

This  has  been  called,  "The  sweet-apple  pudding  of  the 
olden  times."  And  one  who  remembers,  says  of  it  :  "More 
than  fifty  years  ago,  when  the  woods  covered  the  hills  and 
valleys  of  Otsego  County,  N.  Y.,  my  mother  used  to  make 


PART  III.]  SELECTION    OF   PUDDINGS.  309 

this  pudding,  and  bake  it  slowly  in  an  old-fashioned  bake- 
kettle,  which  stood  on  legs  two  inches  in  length,  and  had  an 
iron  cover  on  which  we  put  coals  and  hot  embers  when  we 
wanted  to  brown  the  top.  We  hung  the  kettle  on  the  crane 
in  the  capacious  fire-place,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  all  the 
forenoon,  or  afternoon,  according  as  it  was  wanted  for  dinner 
or  supper.  Or  if  there  was  a  stone  or  brick  oven,  it  was  put 
in  a  little  before  the  bread,  unless  that  happened,  as  it  often 
did,  to  be  all  rye  and  Indian,  when  it  was  put  in  at  the 
same  time,  and  baked  from  three  to  four  hours,  according 
to  size." 

Lemon  Pudding. — (  Choice. )  4£ 

3  cups  sweet  milk — new  is  best. 

\  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch. 

Juice  of  two  lemons. 

Time — 20  to  30  minutes,  slow  oven. 

Pour  the  milk  into  a  farina-kettle,  and  bring  it  to  a  boil ; 
then  star  in  the  corn-starch,  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk  or 
water.  Boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
lumping,  and  remove  from  the  fire.  Whip  into  the  beaten 
yolks  the  sugar  and  lemon,  and  when  the  mixture  is  almost 
cold,  stir  them  into  it ;  then  the  whites,  cut  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Pour  the  custard  into  a  dish,  set  it  inside  a  shallow  pan  of 
boiling  water,  and  bake  slowly  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or 
until  barely  set.  Serve  warm  or  cold.  For  a  larger  pud- 
ding, double  the  quantity  of  ingredients  ;  though  less  eggs 
will  do. 

This  pudding  is  very  delicate  in  flavor. 

Lemon  Meringue   Pudding. — (  Good.)^. 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

1  cup        "      cream. 

2  cups  dry  bread-crumbs — home-made  Graham  loaf. 


310  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

§-  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Juice  of  two  lemons. 

Time — 30  to  40  minutes,  slow  oven. 

Turn  the  milk  and  cream  together,  and  soak  the  crumbs 
in  it  half  an  hour  ;  if  you  have  new  milk,  take  a  quart  of  it 
and  leave  out  the  cream.  Stir  into  the  beaten  yolks  half 
the  sugar,  and  half  the  lemon ;  then  add  the  bread  and 
milk,  pour  all  into  a  pudding-dish,  and  place  in  a  dripping- 
pan  with  boiling  water  in  it.  Bake  slowly  thirty  to  forty 
minutes,  or  until  the  custard  is  set.  When  firm,  cover  with 
a  meringue  made  by  beating  together  the  whites,  and  the 
rest  of  the  sugar  and  lemon ;  close  the  oven,  and  brown 
moderately.     Serve  lukewarm  ;  no  dressing. 

An  orange  pudding  is  made  in  the  same  way  ;  the  oranges 
should  be  fresh,  rich  in  flavor,  and  tart  or  sub-acid. 

Bread  Pudding.  =£ 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1  pint  broken  bread,  stale. 

^  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — 20  to  30  minutes,  slow  oven. 

In  all  bread  puddings,  use  good  home-made  loaf,  stale 
and  dry,  but  perfectly  sweet ;  Graham  or  part  Graham 
(always  unsweetened),  is  best.  Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk 
till  soft,  but  do  not  stir  ;  then  beat  the  yolks,  stir  into  these 
the  sugar,  and  then  the  bread,  milk,  and  the  well-whipped 
whites.  Stir  all  lightly  together,  pour  into  a  pudding-dish, 
and  set  in  the  oven,  within  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Bake  slowly  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or  till  the  pudding  is 
barely  firm  in  the  center  ;  if  a  little  creamy,  it  is  all  the 
better  ;  and  on  no  account  let  it  cook  till  watery  or  wheyey. 

If  wanted  on  short  notice,  scald  the  milk,  pour  it  over 


PART  III.]  SELECTION    OF    PUDDINGS.  311 

the  bread,  and  add  these,  little  by  little,  to  the  sugar  and 
yolks  beaten  together  ;  then  stir  in  the  whites  whipped  to  a 
good  froth,  and  bake  as  before.  Serve  nearly  cold,  with- 
out a  dressing. 

Bread  Pudding. — (With  Meringue.)^ 

3  pints  sweet  milk. 

1  pint  dry  bread-crumbs. 

1  cup  currants — or  seedless  raisins. 

i     "     sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — an  hour  and  ten  minutes,  slow  oven. 
Heat  the  milk,  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  without  stir- 
ring ;  beat  the  yolks,  and  add  to  these  the  bread  and  milk, 
mixing  in  a  little  at  a  time;  then  stir  in  the  sweet  fruit, 
dredged  with  flour.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  pudding-dish 
and  place  in  the  oven,  inside  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water, 
and  bake  covered,  very  slowly,  an  hour  and  ten  minutes,  or 
till  the  raisins  are  tender.  When  done,  cover  with  a  mer- 
ingue made  by  beating  together  the  whites  and  sugar,  and 
brown  slightly.     Serve  lukewarm,  without  a  dressing. 

Another  pudding  with  the  same  ingredients,  is  made  as 
follows  :  Slice  the  bread  instead  of  crumbing,  and  cover 
the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish  with  part  of  it ;  strew  on  a 
portion  of  the  raisins,  and  moisten  well  with  a  raw  custard, 
made  of  the  milk,  eggs  and  sugar.  Repeat  the  process 
until  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  having  the  last  layer  of  bread, 
well  soaked;  then  pour  the  remainder  of  the  custard  over 
the  pudding,  cover,  and  bake  as  before. 

Queen  of  Puddings. — (Good.)^. 

1  quart  new  milk — if  skimmed,  part  cream. 

2  cups  (heaping)  dry  bread-crumbs,  finely  grated. 

1  pint  strawberries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  huckle- 
berries, or  sliced  peaches. 


312  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

f  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Time — 30  to  40  minutes,  slow  oven. 

Soak  the  crumbs  (good  home-made  Graham  loaf)  in  the 
milk,  without  stirring;  then  beat  the  yolks,  whip  into  these 
half  the  sugar,  and  add  the  bread  and  milk,  stirring  as  little 
as  possible.  Pour  all  into  a  dish,  filling  it  not  quite  full, 
place  within  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  very  slowly 
thirty  to  forty  minutes — or  till  the  custard  is  firm  in  the 
middle,  but  not  till  it  separates.  Then  spread  with  a  layer 
(not  too  thick)  of  ripe  fruit,  as  strawberries,  blackberries, 
raspberries,  huckleberries,  or  ripe  peaches,  the  latter  peeled, 
stoned,  and  thinly  sliced.  Cover  immediately  with  a  mer- 
ingue, made  by  beating  together  the  whites,  the  rest  of  the 
sugar,  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Return  to  the  oven, 
and  brown  slightly.  Serve  nearly  cold  without  a  dressing, 
or  with  a  little  cream. 

In  winter,  spread  this  pudding  lightly  with  raspberry 
jam,  thick  cranberry  sauce,  or  smooth  apple  sauce  prepared 
with  very  little  water;  then  cover  with  the  meringue  as  be- 
fore, and  heat  till  it  tinges. 

Cocoa-Nut  Pudding. 

1  quart  new  milk. 

2  cups  fine  bread-crumbs,  dry  and  stale. 
f  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
1  cocoa-nut,  pared  and  grated. 
Juice  of  one  small  lemon. 

Time — to  bake,  30  to  40  minutes,  slow  oven. 

If  the  milk  of  the  cocoa-nut  is  perfectly  sweet,  save  it 
in  a  separate  vessel.  Having  pared  off  the  brown  or  outer 
portion  of  the  nut,  and  grated  the  rest  into  the  milk,  put 


FART  III.]  SELECTION    OF   PUDDINGS.  313 

the  latter  into  a  farina-kettle,  arid  place  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  where  it  will  keep  warm  but  not  cook;  stir  occasion- 
ally. After  an  hour  or  more,  heat  the  mixture  slowly,  but 
do  not  let  it  boil ;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  let  it  stand 
till  nearly  cold,  and  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth,  removing 
the  grated  nut ;  squeeze  well,  to  get  out  all  the  essence. 
Then  pour  it  over  the  crumbs,  and  when  they  have  soaked 
a  little  stir  the  sugar  into  the  beaten  yolks,  and  add  them; 
put  in  also  the  milk  of  the  cocoa-nut,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Pour  the  custard  into  a  pudding-dish,  well  oiled,  set  the 
latter  inside  a  dripping-pan  with  boiling  water  in  it,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  or  till  the  cus- 
tard is  just  set.  Then  beat  together  the  whites,  the  lemon, 
and  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  spread  the  froth  on  top,  and  heat 
till  it  colors  a  little.  Serve  cold  or  nearly  cold;  no  dressing. 
Many  persons  with  weak  stomachs  can  not  digest  the 
cocoa-nut  fiber,  no  matter  how  long  it  is  cooked;  hence  the 
precaution  to  strain  it  out,  altogether. 

Peach  Batter  Pudding. 

2  cups  sweet  cream. 

3  cups  sifted  flour — half  Graham. 

-§  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1}  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 

2  quarts  peeled  peaches. 

Time — at  least  an  hour;  good  oven. 
Kather  tart  clingstone  peaches  are  best  for  this  pudding; 
peel  and  wash  them,  leaving  in  the  stones  if  you  take 
clings;  and  if  not  pretty  ripe,  slash  deeply  with  a  knife  in 
several  places,  so  that  they  will  cook  faster.  Then  lay  them 
in  a  pudding-dish,  and  if  not  very  juicy  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  water;  cover  with  a  batter  made  by  mixing  together 
the  cream,  flour,  and  dissolved  soda,  and  bake  in  an  even 
oven  one  hour,  or  till  the  fruit  is  done;  if  the  crust  browns 
too  fast,  cover  with  a  paper.    If  freestone  peaches  are  used, 


314  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

select  those  that  are  rather  firm,  peel  them,  cut  in  halves, 
and  then  make  like  the  preceding;  if  the  fruit  is  quite  tart, 
add  a  little  sugar  before  putting  on  the  crust.  Serve  warm, 
with  or  without  a  dressing  of  cream.  This  pudding  must 
not  stand  after  baking,  or  the  crust  will  be  heavy. 

Canned  peaches  (whole  ones  if  you  have  them)  may  be 
substituted  for  fresh  ones  ;  drain  off  nearly  all  the  syrup  ; 
and  if  you  like,  save  it  to  serve  with  the  pudding,  instead 
of  cream.  If  you  use  baking-powder,  rather  than  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar,  take  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  to  a  pint  of 
cream.  Or  you  may  mix  with  sour  cream  and  soda,  using 
a  teaspoonful  of  the  latter  to  a  pint  (two  cups)  of  the 
former. 

Apple  Batter  Pudding.  4£ 

2  cups  sweet  cream. 

If    "     sifted  Graham  flour. 

1|    "         "      white 

|  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

H  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 

3  quarts  apples,  peeled,  quartered  and  cored. 
Time — one  hour. 

Select  apples  of  a  rich,  sub-acid  flavor;  and  if  they  are 
average  size,  or  larger,  cut  the  quarters  once  through  be- 
fore baking.  Wash  these  quickly  in  clean  water,  and  lay 
evenly  over  the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish  ;  this  should 
be  about  ten  inches  square  ;  or  it  may  be  eight  inches 
wide,  and  twelve  long ;  if  larger,  the  crust  made  from 
the  above  proportions  of  flour,  etc.,  will  not  be  thick 
enough.  The  water  adhering  to  the  apples  in  wash- 
ing, will  make  the  pie  sufficiently  juicy.  Form  a  batter  of 
the  other  ingredients,  beat  till  smooth,  and  pour  it  over  the 
fruit;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  one  hour.  This  is  a  plain 
but  excellent  pudding,  particularly  if  the  apples  are  fine  ; 
rosy  jennetings,  not  too  ripe,  are  very  good;  so  are  Bald- 


PART  in.]  SELECTION    OF    PUDDINGS.  315 

wins,  or  winesaps.  Send  it  to  the  table  as  soon  as  done, 
and  serve  warm  from  the  bake-dish,  with  or  without  a 
dressing  of  thin  cream  ;  it  is  very  good  without  sauce. 

Berry  Pudding. — (Light  and  Good.)^. 

2  cups  sweet  milk — new,  if  you  have  it. 

2     "     sifted  Graham  flour. 

2     "         "      white  " 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar   sifted   through  the 

flour. 
1  quart  blackberries,  raspberries,  or  huckleberries. 
Time — two  hours. 

Dredge  the  fruit  with  a  portion  of  the  flour,  and  sift  the 
cream  of  tartar  through  the  remainder.  Whip  the  yolks 
and  whites  separately,  make  a  batter  of  the  milk,  eggs  and 
flour,  stir  in  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Then 
add  the  dredged  fruit,  stirring  it  in  lightly,  so  as  not 
to  break  it.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  well-oiled  pudding- 
dish,  cover  the  latter  closely,  leaving  plenty  of  room  to 
swell,  and  set  in  the  steamer,  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water. 
Cook  two  hours,  keeping  the  steamer  tightly  closed  (it 
should  not  be  opened  once),  and  the  water  at  a  fast  boil. 
When  done,  send  immediately  to  the  table,  and  serve  warm 
with  fruit  sauce,  mock  cream,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. 

1  pint  new  milk. 

1     "     sifted  Graham  flour. 

1  "     (nearly)  sifted  white  flour. 
^  cup  good  hop  yeast. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

f  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water, 


316  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

1  quart  berries,  well  dredged  with  flour. 
Time — two  hours. 

If  the  milk  is  not  new  it  must  be  boiled,  and  cooled  to 
blood  heat ;  stir  in  the  flour,  yeast,  beaten  eggs,  and  dis- 
solved soda,  forming  a  smooth  batter,  and  set  it  where  it 
will  keep  warm  ;  it  should  be  light  in  from  two  to  three 
hours,  if .  the  yeast  is  good.  "When  risen,  stir  in  the  fruit 
lightly,  pour  the  batter  into  a  round  pudding-dish,  well 
oiled,  and  steam  as  in  the  last  recipe  ;  it  will  require  about 
two  hours.  Serve  as  soon  as  done,  with  cream  and  sugar, 
mock  cream,  or  other  plain  sauce. 

Blackberries,  or  other  small  fruits,  may  be  used  instead 
of  huckleberries. 

Baked  Blackberry  Pudding. 

Make  the  same  as  the  last,  using  either  blackberries  or 
huckleberries,  and  then  bake  instead  of  steaming  ;  it  will 
require  about  an  hour,  in  an  even  oven.  Serve  the  same  as 
the  last. 

Steamed  Rolly-Poly. — (Excellent)^ 

1  cup   sweet   cream — or   enough   for  rather  a  firm 

dough. 
lh  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 
1|     "         "       white         " 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

1  quart  (nearly)  of  berries,  seeded  cherries,  chopped 

apples,  or  sliced  peaches. 
Time — two  hours. 
Mix  the  Graham  and  white  flour  together,  then  pulverize 
the  soda  finely  with  a  knife,  and  add  it  to  the  cream  of 
tartar  ;  stir  these  well  through  the  flour,  and  sift  two  or  three 
times.  Wet  with  the  cream,  forming  a  tolerably  stiff  dough, 
and  handling  as  little  as  possible  ;  roll  into  an  oblong  sheet 


PART  III.]  SELECTION    OF   PUDDINGS.  317 

a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cover  with  the  fruit,  leaving 
a  little  margin  at  the  edge  ;  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar,  if 
the  fruit  is  tart.  Then  begin  at  one  end  and  roll  up  tightly, 
leaving  the  fruit  inside  ;  pinch  the  edges  firmly  together. 
Wrap  a  clean  dry  napkin  around  the  roll,  allowing  plenty  of 
room  to  swell,  put  it  into  a  tin  basin,  and  cover  closely  ; 
then  place  in  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boning  water,  and 
steam  two  hours  without  uncovering.  If  you  have  to  use  a 
steamer  with  holes  in  the  bottom,  put  two  small  sticks  or 
bits  of  wood  in  it,  and  set  the  basin  on  top  of  these,  leaving 
room  for  the  steam  to  enter  beneath  ;  keep  the  water  at  a 
fast  boil.  When  done  remove  the  cloth,  and  send  directly 
to  the  table.  Cut  across  the  roll,  in  slices  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  and  serve  with  mock  cream, 
fruit  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

This  pudding  may  be  boiled,  but  steaming  is  better. 
If  you  boil,  wring  the  pudding-bag  out  of  hot  water,  flour 
it  well  inside,  and  put  in  the  roll,  leaving  ample  room  to 
swell  ;  the  space  allowed  after  the  bag  is  tied,  should  be 
equal  to  at  least  one-third  the  size  of  the  roll.  If  the  bag 
is  too  wide  for  it,  baste  to  the  required  size  but  not  too 
snugly,  as  the  pudding  will  swell  sidewise  as  well  as  length- 
wise. Drop  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  without 
stopping,  for  an  hour  and  a  half  ;  turn  frequently,  and  keep 
the  pot  well  filled  up,  adding  water  boiling  hot.  When 
done  plunge  quickly  into  cold  water,  take  it  out,  and  then 
remove  the  bag  ;  lay  the  pudding  on  a  hot  plate,  and  send 
immediately  to  the  table. 

These  fruit  rolls  are  drier  and  more  wholesome  baked, 
than  boiled  or  steamed ;  but  they  require  a  little  care 
in  the  oven,  else  the  top  will  brown  too  much  before  the 
dough  is  done  inside.  In  mixing  the  batter,  sour  cream 
may  be  used,  and  the  cream  of  tartar  omitted. 


318  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Baked  Fruit  Eoll.4|= 

Make  the  same  as  the  last,  rolling  the  dough  in  one  wide 
sheet ;  when  the  fruit  is  secured  inside,  lay  the  roll  in  an 
earthen  or  granitized  iron  pan,  slightly  oiled.  Place  this  in 
a  dripping-pan  containing  a  little  boiling  water,  and  bake 
in  a  steady  oven  ;  turn  another  pan  over  the  top,  if  it 
browns  too  fast.  At  the  end  of  half  an  hour  remove  the 
dish  from  the  pan  of  water,  and  bake,  covered,  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  longer  ;  this  will  brown  the  bottom  as  well 
as  the  top  ;  and  the  half  hour's  baking  in  the  steam  of  the 
boiling  water,  will  make  the  crust  softer,  and  less  liable  to 
crack  open  and  let  out  the  fruit  juice.  Take  the  roll  from 
the  oven  some  minutes  before  sending  to  the  table,  as  it 
should  be  partly  cooled  before  cutting.  Serve  with  fruit 
sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar  ;  or  it  may  be  eaten  without  a 
dressing.  If  properly  made  and  baked,  this  is  a  most  ex- 
cellent dessert,  and  as  wholesome  as  it  is  good. 

Cherry  Roll. 

Wash,  stem  and  seed  the  cherries,  having  a  quart  of 
them  after  the  pits  are  removed.  Then  make  a  light  cream 
paste,  the  same  as  for  Steamed  Roily-Poly  (last  recipe  but 
one),  and  roll  in  an  oblong  sheet.  Cover  with  the  cherries, 
leaving  a  good  margin  at  the  edge,  and  if  the  fruit  is  sour 
sprinkle  with  sugar  ;  then  roll  up  snugly,  and  pinch  well  at 
the  ends  ;  you  may  bake,  steam,  or  boil.  If  you  bake, 
manage  the  same  as  in  the  last  recipe,  except  that  you  make 
two  rolls  instead  of  one  ;  lay  them  a  little  apart  in  the  pud- 
ding-dish, and  bake  the  first  half  hour  in  a  pan  containing 
boiling  water ;  then  bake,  covered,  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  in  the  dry  oven. 

If  the  pudding  is  to  be  steamed,  roll  a  clean  napkin 
around  it,  leaving  plenty  of  room  to  swell ;  put  it  into  a 
covered   tin  basin,  and  place  in  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of 


PART  III.]  SELECTION    OF    PUDDINGS.  319 

boiling  water.  Cook  two  hours  without  lifting  the  lid  of 
tne  steamer,  and  keep  the  water  constantly  boiling.  If  you 
prefer  to  boil,  rather  than  steam  or  bake,  put  the  roll  inside 
a  bag  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  and  well  floured  inside;  tie 
it  securely,  allowing  ample  room  to  swell,  and  boil  without 
stopping,  an  hour  and  a  half.  Have  plenty  of  water,  keep 
the  pot  covered,  and  turn  the  bag  over  frequently.  When 
the  pudding  is  done  plunge  quickly  into  cold  water,  lift  it 
out,  and  remove  the  bag. 

If  steamed  or  boiled,  send  to  the  table  as  soon  as  done. 
Serve  with  mock  cream,  fruit  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Baked  Batter  Pudding.  =J£ 

2  cups  sweet  milk — part  cream,  if  you  have  it. 
1  cup  sifted  Graham  flour. 

1     "        "      white 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

\  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
1  "  cream-tartar. 

Time — fully  an  hour. 

Mix  the  Graham  and  white  flour  together,  and  sift  the 
cream  of  tartar  through  it ;  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  milk, 
and  then  the  flour,  stirring  to  a  smooth  batter  ;  add  also 
the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  well;  then 
stir  in  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  very  thoroughly.  Pour 
the  batter  into  a  pudding-dish,  well  oiled,  place  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  within  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake 
half  an  hour  ;  then  remove  from  the  pan  of  water,  and  bake 
in  the  dry  oven  another  half  hour.  It  is  a  good  plan  in 
batter  puddings  to  test  with  a  broom-straw,  by  passing  it 
through  the  thickest  portion  ;  when  it  comes  out  clean, 
bake  three  to  five  minutes  longer  ;  then  take  from  the  oven, 
send  directly  to  the  table,  and  serve  with  fruit  sauce,  sweet 
fruit,   or  cream  and  sugar.     Some  prefer   simply  cream  ; 


320  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

others  like  a  spoonful  of  fruit,  as  stewed  raspberries,  with  a 
little  cream  over  the  whole. 

This,  like  all  batter  puddings,  is  excellent  warmed  over  ; 
dip  the  piece  left  into  cold  water,  lay  it  on  a  pie-pan,  cover 
with  another,  and  then  place  in  a  hot  oven  till  thoroughly 
heated  through.  Stewed  or  canned  fruit,  as  raspberries, 
strawberries,  etc.,  make  a  good  dressing  for  it. 

Steamed  Batter   Pudding.  4j: 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

\  cup  sifted  Graham  flour. 

f     "        "      white 

\     "    sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — an  hour  and  a  half. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  the  milk,  and  stir 
in  the  flour  ;  then  add  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  beat  hard.  Pour  the  batter  into  an  oiled  pan,  filling  it 
not  quite  full ;  this  will  give  room  to  swell ;  then  cover, 
place  in  the  steamer,  and  steam  an  hour  and  a  half  without 
lifting  the  lid  ;  keep  the  water  at  a  fast  boil.  Send  to  the 
table  as  soon  as  done,  and  serve  with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit 
juice. 

Steamed  Batter  Pudding. 

2  cups  sour  milk — or  sour  cream. 
1  cup  Graham  flour. 

1  "     white 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Time — two  hours. 
Make  a  batter  of  the  flour  and  milk,  add  the  whipped 
yolks  and  whites,  and  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  thorough- 
ly. Steam  the  same  as  the  last,  only  half  an  hour  longer ; 
and  when  done,  serve  with  mock  cream,  fruit  sauce,  or 
cream  and  sugar. 


PART  in.]  SELECTION    OF   PUDDINGS.  321 

Steamed  Batter  Pudding.— (Bicher.)# 

1  cup  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

li  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 

2~      "         "       white 

|  cup  finely  powdered  beef  suet. 

-L     "    pure  molasses — or  pure  syrup. 

1     "    currants — or  seedless  raisins. 

f  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time—  two  hours  and  a  half. 

Dredge  the  sweet  fruit  with  a  portion  of  the  flour,  and 
through  the  remainder  of  it  rub  the  finely  powdered  suet ; 
if  currants  are  used,  they  must  be  carefully  picked  over, 
and  washed  and  dried  before  dredging.  Mix  the  molasses 
and  milk  together,  and  stir  in  the  flour  to  form  a  batter; 
then  add  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  hard.  Stir  in  the 
dredged  fruit,  and  pour  the  batter  into  a  basin  well  oiled, 
filling  it. not  quite  full ;  cover  with  an  inverted  pie-pan,  or 
other  closely  fitting  lid,  set  it  in  a  steamer,  and  steam  two 
hours  and  a  half.  Do  not  uncover  till  the  pudding  is  done ; 
and  keep  the  water  at  a  fast  boil. 

If  you  have  not  a  steamer,  pour  the  batter  into  a  tin 
bucket,  well  oiled,  spread  over  the  top  a  clean  napkin  or 
cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  and  floured  well  on  the  under 
side  ;  press  the  lid  in  tightly,  turn  the  ends  of  the  cloth 
back  over  it,  and  pin  them  together  ;  then  set  the  bucket 
inside  a  pot  of  boning  water,  and  cook  two  hours  and  a 
half,  as  before.  The  water  must  not  come  up  to  the  top  of 
the  bucket ;  and  if  it  has  to  be  renewed,  add  it  boiling  hot. 

This  pudding  may  be  put  into  a  bag  and  boiled,  instead 
of  steamed  ;  if  boiled  allow  two  hours,  turning  the  bag 
frequently,  and  keeping  the  pot  well  filled  with  boiling 
water.  Serve  as  soon  as  done,  with  lemon  sauce,  fruit,  or 
fruit  juice  ;  or  it  may  be  eaten  without  a  dressing. 


322  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

Cheistmas  Plum  Pudding. — (Excellent.)^: 

2  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1  cup  sifted  Graham  flour. 

1     "        "      white  " 

1     "    stale  bread-crumbs,  finely  grated. 

-J     "    finely  powdered  beef  suet. 

J     "     chopped  apples. 

£     "    currants,  picked,  washed  and  dried. 

J     "    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

J     "     citron,  finely  shredded. 

-|     "     sugar. 

1  teaspoonf  ul  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time — two  hours  and  a  half. 

First,  dredge  the  sweet  fruit  with  a  portion  of  the  flour  ; 
then  make  a  batter  by  stirring  together  the  crumbs  and 
milk,  the  rest  of  the  flour,  the  suet,  sugar,  and  dissolved 
soda  ;  beat  very  thoroughly.  Then  stir  in  the  dredged  fruit, 
the  chopped  apple  and  citron,  and  mix  all  lightly  together  ; 
pour  the  pudding  into  a  round  tin  basin,  previously  oiled, 
cover  with  an  inverted  plate  or  pie-pan,  and  place  in  a 
steamer.  Keep  the  water  constantly  boning,  and  do  not 
lift  the  lid  till  done  ;  it  will  require  two  hours  and  a  half. 
"When  taken  out  send  directly  to  the  table,  and  serve  with 
tart  fruit  (as  canned  egg-plums),  or  with  lemon  sauce  ;  the 
latter  is  best. 

This  pudding  is  plainer  than  most  plum  puddings,  there 
being  so  little  sweet  fruit  or  sugar  in  proportion  to  the 
milk,  flour  and  bread-crumbs.  The  spices  also  are  omitted, 
together  with  the  "  brown  sherries  "  and  brandies,  these  being 
an  abomination  to  all  hygienists. 

Graham  Pudding. — (  With  Fruit.  )# 

1  cup  sour  milk  or  cream. 

2  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 


PAP.T  III.]  SELECTION    OF    PUDDINGS.  323 

1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

J     "     currants,  picked,  washed  and  dried. 

i     "     pure  molasses — or  pui*e  syrup. 

1  egg,  well  beaten. 

f  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time — two  hours  and  a  half. 

After  dredging  the  fruit  with  a  little  of  the  flour,  stir  to- 
gether the  milk,  flour  and  molasses,  add  the  whipped  egg 
and  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  hard  ;  then  stir  the  -fruit  in 
lightly.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  pan  well  oiled,  cover,  and 
set  in  the  steamer  ;  keep  the  latter  tightly  closed,  and  steam 
two  hours  and  a  half.  Serve  as  soon  as  done,  with  fruit, 
fruit  sauce,  or  lemon  sauce. 

If  pure  molasses  can  not  be  had,  melt  a  third  of  a  cup  of 
sugar  in  a  little  boiling  water. 

Graham  Pudding. — (  With  Fruit. )# 

1  cup  sweet  cream  or  milk. 

2  cups  sifted  Graham  flour. 

1  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

J     "    sugar. 

1  egg,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
Time — two  hours  and  a  half. 

Dredge  the  raisins  with  a  portion  of  the  flour,  and  sift 
the  cream  of  tartar  through  the  remainder.  Beat  the  egg 
and  sugar  together,  add  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  flour, 
forming  a  smooth  batter  ;  then  add  the  dissolved  soda,  and 
beat  well.  Stir  the  fruit  in  last,  mixing  it  evenly  through 
the  batter,  and  steam  as  in  the  preceding  recipe.  A  third 
of  a  cup  of  citron,  finely  shredded,  may  be  added  with  the 
raisins,  if  desired.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce,  fruit,  or  fruit 
juice. 


324  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding.  4£ 

2  quarts  sweet  milk. 

1  pint  cold  water. 

2  even  cups  coarse  corn  meal — golden  "  flint "  is  best. 
J  cup  Graham  flour. 

£     "    sugar. 

Time — an  hour  and  a  half,  slow  oven. 
Scald  the  milk,  pour  it  over  the  meal,  and  mash  with  a 
spoon  till  there  are  no  lumps ;  let  the  mixture  stand  five 
minutes.  Then  stir  in  the  sugar,  pour  the  batter  into  a 
farina-kettle,  or  tin  bucket  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and 
heat  to  scalding.  Stir  into  this  a  batter  made  of  the  Gra- 
ham flour,  and  the  pint  of  cold  water  ;  mix  all  well  together. 
Then  pour  the  pudding  into  a  dish  slightly  oiled,  and  set  it  in 
the  oven,  inside  a  dripping-pan  with  boiling  water  in  it;  cover 
and  bake,  stirring  frequently  the  first  half  hour.  Have  a 
very  moderate  heat,  and  bake  in  all  an  hour  and  a  half,  or 
until  the  pudding  thickens  sufficiently.  Serve  warm  (not 
hot),  with  mock  cream  or  lemon  sauce  ;  the  latter  is  prefer- 
able. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. — ( Excellent.  )^p 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  corn  meal— "flint/'  if  you  have  it. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — one  hour,  slow  oven. 
Heat  the  milk  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  corn  meal ;  if 
coarse  "flint"  is  used,  make  the  measure  scant.  Let  the 
batter  stand  tfll  cold,  then  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  to- 
gether, and  stir  them  into  it ;  add  also  the  whites  whipped 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  hard.  Pour  it  into  a  pudding- 
dish,  set  this  inside  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  and 
bake,  covered,  one  hour,  or  until  the  pudding  has' the  proper 
consistency.     Serve  warm    or   cold,  with   cream,  fruit,  or 


PART  HI.]  SELECTION    OF    PUDDINGS.  325 

lemon  sauce  ;  or  it  is  good  without  a  dressing.     Some  make 
with  less  eggs — three  eggs  to  two  quarts  of  milk. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. — (Good. ) 4£ 

1  quart  sweet  milk,  boiling  hot. 

1  cup  cold  " 

1     "    coarse  corn  meal — "  flint "  preferred. 

^     "    pure  molasses — or  pure  syrup. 

Time — an  hour  and  a  half,  slow  oven. 

Pour  the  hot  milk  oyer  the  meal,  and  stir  till  there  are  no 
lumps.  Then  add  the  molasses  (or  syrup)  with  thorough 
beating,  pour  the  batter  into  a.  small  but  deep  dish,  and 
place  in  the  oven  within  a  dripping-pan  containing  boiling 
water.  Cover  and  bake,  stirring  the  pudding  from  the  bot- 
tom several  times  the  first  half  hour  ;  at  the  end  of  that 
time  stir  in  the  cup  of  cold  milk — some  use  cold  water — 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  an  hour  longer.  Serve  warm  or 
cold,  with  or  without  a  dressing  of  fruit  juice,  or  lemon 
sauce  ;  the  latter  is  best. 

If  pure  molasses  or  syrup  is  not  to  be  had,  try  melted 
sugar;  or  you  may  get  good  maple  molasses  or  sorghum, 
from  an  honest  farmer. 

Indian  Pudding  with  Fruit. — (Choice.)^ 

3  pints  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  rather  coarse  com  meal — golden  "  flint "  is  best. 

1  "    sifted  Graham  flour. 

1£  cups  raisins,  seeded  and  finely  chopped. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 
Time — one  hour,  moderate  oven. 

Scald  a  pint  of  the  milk,  and  wet  the  meal  with  it ;  stir 


326  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

well,  to  prevent  lumping.  Let  the  mixture  stand  till  luke- 
warm ;  while  it  is  cooling,  make  a  batter  with  the  flour  and 
another  pint  of  the  cold  milk,  and  when  the  scalded  meal  is 
cool  enough  stir  the  two  batters  together.  Then  heat  the 
remaining  pint  to  a  boil,  beat  the  yolks,  whip  in  the  sugar, 
and  stir  into  these,  little  by  little,  the  hot  milk  ;  pour  this 
custard  into  the  mixed  batter,  add  the  whites  whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  beat  very  hard.  Lastly,  put  in  the  fruit, 
previously  dredged  with  a  portion  of  the  flour,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Pour  all  into  a  pudding-dish,  set  this  in  a 
shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake,  covered,  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Stir  once  from  the  bottom,  as  the  pudding 
begins  to  thicken  ;  and  continue  the  cooking  about  an  hour. 
Serve  with  cream,  fruit,  or  lemon  sauce.  Stewed  or  canned 
raspberries,  mixed  with  currants,  make  a  plain  but  good 
dressing. 

Seedless  raisins,  or  currants,  may  be  substituted  for  the 
sweet  fruit  in  this  pudding ;  they  cook  sooner,  and  are 
very  good. 

Steamed  Indian  Pudding.  4£ 

2  cups  sour  milk. 

1  cup       "    cream. 

2  cups  coarse  corn  meal — golden  "  flint,"  if  you  have  it. 
1  cup  Graham  flour,  unsifted. 

^     "    sugar. 

1|  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time — two  hours. 

Meal  that  is  made  from  white  or  yellow  "flint"  corn,  and 
rather  coarsely  ground,  is  best  in  all  steamed  breads,  or 
steamed  Indian  puddings.  Mix  together  the  meal,  flour, 
milk,  cream  and  sugar,  stirring  all  to  a  smooth  batter  ;  then 
add  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  thoroughly. ,  These  corn 
meal  puddings  are  always  better  for  being  well  beaten. 
Pour  immediately  into  an  oiled  pan  or  mould,  filling  it  not 


PART  III.]  SELECTION    OF    PUDDINGS.  327 

quite  full ;  then  cover,  and  steam  two  hours,  keeping  the 
water  at  a  fast  boil ;  the  steamer  should  not  be  opened  till 
the  pudding  is  done.  Serve  with  mock  cream,  fruit  sauce, 
stewed  plums,  or  lemon  sauce  ;  or  a  soft  custard  may  be 
used  as  a  dressing. 


Steamed  Indian  Pudding. — (Excellent.)^: 

3  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

2  "     coarse  corn  meal — "  flint,"  if  you  can  get  it. 
1  cup  Graham  flour,  unsifted. 

1     "     currants — or  raisins  seeded  and  chopped. 
J     "    finely  powdered  beef  suet. 

3  tablespoonfuls  pure  molasses — or  pure  syrup. 
1|  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Time — two  hours  and  a  half. 

Dredge  the  sweet  fruit  with  a  little  of  the  flour;  if  cur- 
rants are  used,  pick  them  carefully  over,  and  then  wash  and 
dry  before  dredging.  Stir  together  the  meal,  flour,  suet, 
milk  and  molasses  (you  may  take  maple  or  sorghum),  and 
beat  well;  then  add  the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  very  thor- 
oughly. Stir  in  lastly  the  fruit,  mixing  it  evenly  through 
the  batter,  and  pour  all  into  a  round  pan,  well  oiled  ;  you 
must  not  fill  it  quite  full.  Set  this  in  a  steamer,  cover  with 
an  inverted  pie-pan,  and  steam  two  hours  and  a  half.  Serve 
wami  with  fruit  sauce,  tart  fruit,  or  lemon  sauce;  the  latter 
makes  an  excellent  dressing. 

This,  and  all  steamed  Indian  puddings,  may  be  warmed 
over,  and  served  at  the  next  meal,  or  the  next  day;  dip  the 
remnant  quickly  into  cold  water,  lay  it  in  a  pie-pan  with 
another  turned  over  it,  and  then  place  in  the  oven  long 
enough  to  get  thoroughly  hot,  all  through.  It  will  be  quite 
as  good  as  at  first. 


328  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Rice  Pudding.  4|= 

3  pints  sweet  milk. 
1  pint  water. 

1  scant  cup  rice,  picked  over  carefully  and  washed. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar — omit,  if  preferred. 
Time— two  hours,  very  slow  oven. 

Put  into  a  pudding-dish  the  rice,  milk,  water  and  sugar, 
stir  all  together,  and  bake,  covered,  in  a  slow  oven,  two  hours. 
Stir  from  the  bottom  several  times  until  the  pudding  begins 
to  thicken,  and  do  not  fail  to  keep  the  oven  at  a  slow  heat. 
It  is  better  to  set  the  dish  inside  a  shallow  pan  with  boiling 
water  in  it,  while  baking  ;  the  pudding  should  be  of  a 
creamy  consistency  when  done,  and  delicately  browned  on 
top.     Serve  lukewarm,  with  or  without  a  dressing  of  fruit. 

This  plain  but  excellent  pudding  is  very  good  eaten  cold; 
you  may  make  it  on  Saturday,  and  have  it  cold  for  Sunday 
dinner.  Served  in  this  way,  it  must  be  quite  milky  when 
taken  from  the  oven.  If  preferred,  you  can  add  a  handful 
of  raisins  to  the  rice. 

Rice  Pudding.  4£ 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1  pint  water. 

•|  cup  rice,  picked  over  carefully,  and  washed. 

2  even  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  egg. 

Time — one  hour,  slow  oven. 

Soak  the  rice  in  the  water  one  hour;  then  set  it  on  the 
stove  with  the  water  in  which  it  soaked,  and  let  it  come 
slowly  to  a  boil.  Cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  or  twice, 
and  remove  from  the  fire.  "When  nearly  cold,  beat  the  egg 
and  sugar  together,  add  the  rice  with  the  water  in  which  it 
boiled,  and  also  the  quart  of  milk.  Having  stirred  all  to- 
gether, pour  the  batter  into  an  oiled  pan,  cover,  and  place 


PAET  IIL]  SELECTION   OF   PUDDINGS.  329 

in  a  moderate  oven  within  a  dripping-pan  of  boiling  water; 
bake  very  slowly  one  hour,  or  till  the  pudding  is  thick  and 
creamy  in  the  center.  Serve  not  too  warm,  without  a 
dressing. 

If  preferred,  omit  the  sugar,  and  add  a  cup  of  sweet 
fruit,  as  seedless  raisins  or  currants  (the  latter  picked  over 
and  washed  carefully),  and  bake  as  before  ;  the  fruit  must 
be  soaked  and  heated  with  the  rice,  before  baking.  Or  you 
may  leave  out  the  egg,  and  use  more  rice  ;  say  two-thirds 
of  a  cup. 

Pudding  of  Cold  Bice. 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 

2      "     cold  boiled  rice. 

2  table  spoonfuls  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

Time — one  hour,  slow  oven. 
Mix  the  rice  and  milk,  working  out  all  the  lumps ;  beat 
the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  and  stir  them  in ;  then  add 
the  whipped  whites,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour  the  batter 
into  a  pudding-dish,  set  it  in  the  oven,  inside  a  pan  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  bake  slowly  one  hour,  or  till  the  pudding  is 
barely  set;  it  must  not  begin  to  separate.  Serve  lukewarm, 
without  a  dressing. 

Cold  samp  (fine  hominy),  cracked  wheat,  or  barley,  may 
be  used  instead  of  rice. 

Manioca  Pudding. 41= 
3  pints  sweet  milk. 
J  cup  manioca. 

1  "     sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Time — 40  minutes,  moderate  oven. 

Manioca  is  much  finer  for  puddings  than  tapioca;  it  is 
also  more  expensive,  and  consequently  is  in  slight  demand; 


330  HEALTH   IN   THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

only  the  larger  grocers  keep  it.  In  making  this  pudding, 
mix  the  manioca  in  one  quart  of  the  milk,  heat  it  in  a  farina- 
kettle,  and  stir  almost  constantly  till  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Then  lift  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  rest  of  the  milk; 
when  the  mixture  is  about  cold,  stir  the  sugar  into  the 
beaten  yolks,  and  add  them;  add  also  the  whipped  whites, 
and  beat  well.  Pour  the  custard  into  a  pudding-dish,  and 
set  this  inside  a  dripping-pan  with  boiling  water  in  it;  then 
cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty  minutes,  or  until 
the  pudding  is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Serve  warm  or 
cold,  with  or  without  a  dressing  of  fruit,  or  fruit  juice. 
This  pudding  is  very  good  with  the  eggs  omitted. 

Tapioca  Pudding.^ 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  tapioca,  washed  and  drained. 

^     "     sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — 45  minutes,  moderate  oven. 

Get,  if  you  can,  tapioca  that  is  not  too  coarse;  you  will 
need  to  begin  the  soaking  soon  after  breakfast;  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  soak  two  hours — longer,  if  it  is  in  large 
lumps.  Then  drain  thoroughly,  pour  on  the  cold  milk,  and 
set  the  vessel  containing  it  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  where 
its  contents  will  warm  slowly  to  blood  heat;  stir  occasionally. 
An  hour  and  a  half  before  dinner  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
together,  and  the  whites  by  themselves  ;  stir  all  into  the 
milk  and  ta,pioca,  and  bake,  covered,  inside  a  shallow  pan  of 
boiling  water.  Stir  well  from  the  bottom  ten  minutes  after 
the  pudding  goes  into  the  oven,  and  bake  rather  slowly, 
until  it  is  of  a  creamy  consistency  ;  it  will  require  about 
forty-five  minutes.  Uncover  toward  the  last,  if  the  pud- 
ding is  not  sufficiently  browned.  Cool  to  lukewarm,  and 
serve  without  a  dressing.     A  plainer  pudding  is  made  by 


PART  III.l  SELECTION    OF   PUDDINGS.  331 

taking  equal  parts  milk  and  water,  and  using  only  one  or 
two  eggs. 

Much  of  the  tapioca  sold  in  the  groceries,  is  in  such  great 
lumps  that  it  is  difficult  to  soak  soft.  Why  it  is  manufac- 
tured in  this  way,  is  a  question  of  interest,  at  least  to  the 
cook.  Manioca,  which  is  essentially  the  same  thing  as 
tapioca,  is  without  a  fault  in  this  respect;  it  is  in  fine  grains, 
easily  dissolved,  and  is  truly  delightful  for  puddings  ;  but 
for  some  cause  or  other,  its  high  price  places  it  beyond  the 
reach  of  most  people,  as  an  article  of  frequent  use.  There 
is  a  preparation  of  tapioca  called  the  granulated,  which  is  in 
little  round  lumps  not  much  larger  than  grains  of  barley; 
it  dissolves  rather  easily,  but  it  is  said  to  be  badly  adulter- 
ated, and  therefore  inferior  to  the  ordinary  article. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding.  4£ 

8  tart  juicy  apples,  pared  and  cored. 

4  cup  tapioca,  washed  and  drained. 

^     "     sugar. 

1  quart  cold  water. 

Juice  of  one  lemon — if  desired. 

Time — for  baking,  one  hour  ;  good  oven. 

Pour  the  cold  water  over  the  tapioca,  and  set  it  back  on 
the  stove  to  warm  a  little  ;  stir  once  in  a  while.  Do  this 
soon  after  breakfast,  if  the  tapioca  is  in  large  lumps.  Two 
hours  before  dinner,  place  where  it  will  get  thoroughly  hot; 
stir  often,  and  continue  to  heat  and  stir  till  the  tapioca  is 
soft,  and  almost  clear.  In  the  mean  time  have  ready  the 
apples,  and  arrange  them,  not  too  closely,  in  the  bottom  of 
a  pudding-dish  ;  fill  their  centers  with  the  sugar,  squeeze 
into  the  latter  the  lemon  juice,  and  then  pour  over  the 
tapioca.  Set  the  dish  in  a  good  oven,  inside  a  dripping- 
pan  with  a  little  boiling  water  in  it,  and  bake,  covered,  one 
hour,  or  until  the  apples  are  done.     Serve  nearly  cold,  with 


332  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice  ;  stewed  or  canned  raspberries^ 
blackberries,  cherries,  etc.,  make  a  good  dressing  ;  and  so 
does  the  mixed  sauce. 

This  pudding  may  if  desired  be  made  without  the  lemon, 
and  less  sugar  used.  Or  you  may  use  manioca  instead  of 
tapioca,  which  needs  no  soaking  ;  pour  boiling  water  over  ta 
dissolve  it,  and  bake  one  hour. 

Lemon  Tapioca  Custard. — (Excellent.)^. 

1  pint  sweet  milk. 

1  quart  cold  water. 

f  cup  tapioca,  washed  and  drained. 

f     "    sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Juice  of  two  lemons. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  quart  of  cold  water,  keeping  the 
vessel  covered  ;  if  the  tapioca  is  pretty  fine,  three  hours 
will  suffice  ;  but  if  you  have  the  common  coarse  kind,  it 
will  need  five  hours  to  soak.  An  hour  and  a  half  before 
dinner,  heat  the  milk  to  a  boil  in  a  farina-kettle,  or  a  tin 
bucket  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  ;  add  to  this  the  tapioca, 
and  the  water  in  which  it  soaked.  Stir  till  the  mixture 
boils  ;  then  cook  ten  minutes,  or  until  the  tapioca  is  well 
dissolved,  using  the  spoon  constantly.  Set  back  the  kettle 
while  you  beat  together  the  yolks,  half  the  sugar,  and  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  ;  stir  into  these  a  little  of  the  hot  mixt- 
ure, then  more,  and  finally  turn  all  together.  Heat  again 
to  a  boil,  stirring  meanwhile,  and  cook  five  minutes,  or  till 
the  custard  thickens  ;  then  pour  it  into  a  dish,  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  by  beating  together  the  whites,  and  the  rest 
of  the  sugar  and  lemon,  and  brown  slightly.  Serve  cold  or 
lukewarm,  without  a  dressing. 


PART  III.j  SELECTION    OF   PUDDMGo.  333 

Lemon  Tapioca  Pudding. — (Good.)ifc 

1  cup  (scant)  tapioca,  washed  and  drained. 
-|    "     sugar. 

1  quart  cold  water — for  soaking. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 
Juice  of  two  lemons. 

Time — f  or  cooking  and  browning,  an  hour  and  three- 
quarters. 

Put  the  tapioca  to  soak  early  in  the  morning ;  before 
breakfast,  if  it  is  in  large  lumps  ;  set  the  pan  containing  it 
on  the  stove,  where  it  will  warm  to  blood  heat  but  will  not 
cook  ;  stir  now  and  then.  Two  hours  before  dinner  pour 
it  into  a  farina-kettle,  add  half  the  lemon  and  half  the 
sugar,  mixing  well,  and  set  it  where  it  will  get  thoroughly 
hot  ;  stir  frequently.  Cook  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  till  the 
tapioca  is  clear  ;  then  pour  it  into  a  pudding-dish,  beat  to- 
gether the  whites,  and  the  rest  of  the  lemon  and  sugar,  and 
spread  over  the  top.  Place  in  the  oven  ten  minutes,  and 
brown  slightly.  Serve  cold  or  nearly  cold  (the  pudding 
will  keep  till  the  next  day),  with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice; 
or  it  is  very  good  without  a  dressing. 

Sago  may  be  used,  instead  of  tapioca  ;  it  need  not  be 
soaked  beforehand. 

Tapioca  Pudding  with  Fruit. — (Choice.)^. 

1  cup  tapioca,  washed  and  drained. 

|    "     sugar. 

1  pint  strawberries,  raspberries,  currants,  or  seeded 

cherries. 
1  quart  cold  water. 
Time — an  hour  and  a  half. 
Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water,  as  in  the  last  recipe  ;  two 
hours  before  dinner  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  set  it  on  the 
stove  where  it  will  heat  thoroughly.     Cook  till  clear  ;  then 


334  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

stir  in  the  fruit,  and  continue  the  cooking  five  to  eight 
minutes  longer.  Serve  cold  or  nearly  so,  with  cream  or 
fruit ;  or  it  may  be  eaten  without  a  dressing.  This  and  the 
preceding  pudding  make  convenient  dishes  for  warm 
weather,  as  they  can  be  eaten  several  hours  after  they  are 
made. 

Instead  of  the  fruit,  a  cup  of  fruit  juice  may  be  substi- 
tuted ;  this  makes  a  truly  delightful  dessert;  stir  in  the 
juice  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  before  the  kettle  is  taken  from 
the  fire.  The  pudding  may  be  eaten  lukewarm,  or  it  can  be 
poured  into  cups  wet  with  cold  water,  and  moulded  ;  you 
can  serve  it  for  supper  if  you  like,  or  the  following  day, 
with  mock  cream,  fruit  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Another  excellent  method  is  to  cook  the  tapioca  till  clear, 
sweetening  as  before  ;  when  done,  serve  with  fresh  rasp- 
berries, adding  cream  and  sugar. 

Sago  Pudding. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

f  cup  sago. 

^    "     sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — 45  minutes  for  baking, 
Pour  the  milk  into  a  farina-kettle,  or  a  tin  bucket  set  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water  ;  wash  the  sago  in  cold  water,  and 
drain  well ;  then  stir  it  into  the  milk  and  heat  half  an  hour, 
or  till  it  has  had  time  to  swell  ;  use  the  spoon  frequently. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  the  mixture  is  half  cold 
add  the  yolks  and  sugar,  beaten  together  ;  also  the  well- 
whipped  whites,  and  stir  thoroughly.  Pour  the  pudding 
into  a  dish,  set  it  inside  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  and 
bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  till  of  a  creamy 
consistency.  Stir  from  the  bottom,  five  minutes  after  placing 
it  in  the  oven.  Serve  nearly  cold  without  dressing!  or  with 
a  little  juicy  fruit, 


PART  in.]  SELECTION    OF   PUDDINGS.  335 

Sago  Pudding  with  Fruit. 
1  quart  boiling  water. 
|  cup  sago,  washed  and  drained. 


sugar. 


1  pint  strawberries,  raspberries,  or  seeded  cherries. 

Time — 30  minutes. 
After  washing,  pour  enough  cold  water  over  the  sago  to 
cover  it,  and  let  it  soak  an  hour  ;  drain  well.  Then  add  the 
sugar  and  pour  over  the  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  while 
to  prevent  lumping.  Put  the  pudding  into  a  farina-kettle 
and  cook  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently.  Then  mix  in 
the  fruit,  and  cook  three  to  five  minutes  ;  strawberries  need 
very  little  heating.  Serve  cold  or  lukewarm,  with  cream, 
fruit,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Farina  Pudding. — f  Excellent.  J  # 

3  pints  sweet  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  (scant)  farina. 

\  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — 50  minutes,  slow  oven. 
Heat  the  milk  in  a  f  arina-kettle,  and  when  ready  to  boil 
stir  in  the  grain  rather  slowly,  to  avoid  lumping.  Continue 
the  stirring  and  cook  ten  minutes,  or  till  the  mixture 
thickens.  Then  set  it  off  to  cool ;  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
together,  and  when  the  mush  is  nearly  cold  stir  them  in ; 
add  also  the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  thor- 
oughly. Pour  the  batter  into  a  dish,  set  it  in  a  dripping- 
pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  fifty  minutes, 
or  till  the  custard  is  set.  Cool  to  lukewarm,  and  serve 
without  a  dressing. 

Green  Corn  Pudding.  =£ 

1  quart  sweet  milk — new,  if  you  have  it. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 


336  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

12  ears  of  corn  well  filled,  or  three  pints  pulp. 
Time — an  hour  and  a  half,  slow  oven. 

Select  perfect  ears,  well  filled,  but  young  and  tender  ;  the 
"  evergreen "  is  best  ;  if  field  corn  is  used,  the  white  or 
yellow  "flint"  is  excellent.  Split  the  grains  half  their 
depth  by  drawing  a  sharp  knife  down  the  rows  of  corn,  be- 
ginning at  the  larger  end  of  the  ear.  Then  with  a  dull 
knife  scrape  out  the  pulp ;  this  is  done  by  scraping  from 
the  large  to  the  small  end  of  the  cob  ;  if  you  draw  the  knife 
in  the  other  direction,  it  tears  out  the  grains,  hulls  and  all. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  the  latter  to  a  stiff 
froth  ;  stir  these  with  the  corn,  and  beat  hard ;  then  add 
the  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  beating  as  you  add  it.  When 
all  is  in,  pour  the  batter  into  a  well-oiled  pudding-dish,  and 
place  in  a  dripping-pan  of  boiling  water.  Have  a  slow 
oven,  and  bake  covered,  an  hour  and  a  half  ;  stir  once  from 
the  bottom,  ten  minutes  after  the  dish  is  set  in  the  oven. 
The  pudding  should  be  an  inch  and  a  half  to  two  inches 
thick  ;  you  must  not  hurry  the  baking  ;  it  should  be  mod- 
erately browned  on  top,  when  done.  Serve  warm  from  the 
dish  ;   it  is  good  enough  eaten  without   butter,  or  other 


Green  Corn  Pudding.^ 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1  "     grated  corn. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — an  hour  and  a  quarter,  moderate  oven. 
Stir  into  the  grated  corn  the  whipped  yolks,  and  beat 
well ;  add  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  the  whites  cut  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  beat  again  ;  then  stir  in  the  rest  of  the  milk, 
mixing  thoroughly.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  pan,  well  oiled, 
set  this  within  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  an  hour  and  a  quarter,  or  till  the  pudding 
thickens  in  the  center.     Serve  without  a  dressing. 


PAKT  in. 


OTHER   PUDDINGS.  337 


A  very  good  pudding  may  be  made  with  half  the  milk, 
and  the  eggs  omitted. 

OTHER  PUDDINGS. 

Apple  Pudding. — (  Without  Eggs.)^ 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

8  apples  pared  and  cored,  and  not  too  tart. 

2  cups  stale  bread-crumbs. 
J  cup  sugar. 

Time — an  hour  and  a  quarter,  slow  oven. 
Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  till  soft ;  then  stir  in  the 
sugar,  and  pour  the  batter  over  and  around  the  apples, 
which  you  have  placed  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish, 
not  too  closely  .together.  Set  the  dish  in  a  dripping-pan  of 
boiling  water,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  quarter  in  a  slow 
oven ;  cover  till  nearly  done.  If  preferred,  take  sweet 
apples  pared  and  cored,  and  cut  each  two-thirds  through, 
but  do  not  separate  ;  then  arrange  and  bake  as  before,  al- 
lowing a  little  longer  time  if  the  apples  are  not  done. 
Serve  with  cold  cream,  or  stewed  raspberries  ;  or  you  may 
eat  without  sauce. 

Graham  Apple  Pudding.^ 
3  pints  sweet  milk. 
1\    "     sifted  Graham  flour. 

1  quart  finely  chopped  apples. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Time — one  hour,  rather  slow  oven. 

Mix  the  milk  and  flour  to  form  a  batter,  and  then  stir  in 
the  beaten  yolks,  chopped  apples,  and  whites  cut  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Beat  thoroughly,  pout-  into  a  pudding-dish  well 
oiled,  and  bake  one  hour,  or  until  the  apples  are  done. 
Serve  cold  or  lukewarm,  with  fruit  sauce,  or  cream  and 
sugar. 


338  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Berry  and  Bread  Pudding. 

1  quart  sweet  milk — new,  if  you  have  it 

1       "     berries,  seeded  cherries,  or  other  small  fruits. 

1  pint   stale  bread-crumbs — home-made   Graham   is 
best. 

\  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Pinch  of  finely  pulverized  soda  in  the  milk. 

Time — 40  to  50  minutes,  slow  oven. 
Pour  the  milk  into  a  farina-kettle,  and  bring  it  to  a  boil ; 
when  you  have  beaten  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add 
the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  as  you  pour.  Whip 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  a  portion  of  the  hot 
mixture  to  them,  in  the  same  cautious  way  ;  then  stir  well 
together  ;  if  properly  managed,  the  eggs  should  not  curdle. 
This  done,  fill  a  pudding-dish  not  quite  full,  with  alternate 
layers  of  the  bread-crumbs  and  ripe  fruit,  beginning  and 
ending  with  the  bread.  When  all  is  in,  pour  the  hot  cus- 
tard over  the  layers,  saturating  the  whole,  and  let  this  stand 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or  till  the  bread  is  thoroughly 
soaked.  Set  the  dish,  covered,  in  the  oven,  inside  a  drip- 
ping-pan containing  boiling  water,  and  bake  very  slowly 
forty  to  fifty  minutes.  Uncover  and  brown  quickly  at  the 
end.     Serve  warm  or  cold,  with  thin  cream. 

Blackberries,  raspberries,  huckleberries,  seeded  cherries, 
or  sliced  peaches,  may  be  used  in  making  this  pudding ; 
and  if  preferred,  you  may  take  less  eggs. 

Huckleberry  and  Bread  Pudding. 
1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1  pint  dry  bread-crumbs — good  Graham  loaf. 
1      "     huckleberries. 
3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
•3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Time — 40  to  50  minutes,  moderate  oven. 


^AKT  III.]  OTHEK    PUDDINGS.  339 

Heat  the  milk,  and  pour  it  over  the  bread;  cool,  and  add 
the  beaten  yolks,  the  sugar,  and  the  well-whipped  whites. 
Then  stir  in  the  berries  dredged  with  flour,  pour  the  batter 
into  a  pudding-dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  within  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  forty  to  fifty  minutes.  Serve  nearly 
or  quite  cold,  with  or  without  a  dressing  of  cream. 

Steamed  Apple  Pudding. 

Take  good  tart  apples,  rich  in  flavor,  pare,  core  and 
quarter  them,  or  better,  cut  in  eighths;  then  place  about 
three  layers  deep,  in  a  bake-dish.  Add  a  spoonful  of  water, 
and  cover  with  a  light  cream  paste  rolled  a  third  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  made  as  per  recipe  already  given;  the  pudding 
should  not  quite  reach  the  top  of  the  dish.  Then  turn  over 
the  latter  an  inverted  plate  or  pie-pan,  to  keep  the  water 
out,  and  steam  an  hour  and  a  half  without  uncovering  the 
steamer.  The  water  must  be  kept  at  a  fast  boil.  Send  to 
the  table  as  soon  as  done,  or  the  crust  will  become  heavy; 
serve  with  mock  cream,  fruit  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Damson  Plum  Pudding. 

Line  a  deep  pan  well  oiled,  with  a  light  cream  paste,  fill 
with  damson  plums  picked  over  and  washed,  and  cover  with 
a  good  crust,  pinching  the  edges  securely  together.  The 
dough  should  be  rolled  to  the  thickness  of  nearly  half  an 
inch;  and  the  top  crust  must  not  be  pricked.  After  putting 
on  the  latter  tie  a  thick  cloth  over  (the  corners  turned  back 
and  pinned),  leaving  it  loose  enough  to  allow  room  to  swell; 
then  set  in  a  pot  of  boning  water,  and  cook  two  hours. 
Keep  the  pot  closely  covered,  and  the  water  at  a  fast  boil; 
it  must  not  reach  the  top  of  the  pan.  Or,  if  you  have  a 
steamer,  you  can  make  the  pie  in  a  round  basin  of  granit- 
ized  iron,  lay  a  folded  towel  or  napkin  over  it,  and  steam 
two  hours  without  lifting  the  lid.  Take  out  as  soon  as 
done,  and  serve  with  mock  cream,  or  cream  and  sugar. 
23 


340  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Blackberries,  raspberries,  huckleberries,  gooseberries 
(just  beginning  to  ripen),  or  sliced  apples  or  peaches,  may 
be  substituted  for  plums.  With  apples  or  peaches,  the 
under  crust  may  be  omitted  if  desired. 

Apple  Batter  Pudding. — (Good.)^. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples  (eight  or  ten  will  be  enough), 
put  them  in  a  pan  with  a  trine  of  water,  and  bake,  covered, 
till  they  are  nearly  soft,  but  not  broken;  the  apples  should 
be  rich  in  flavor,  but  not  very  tart.  Then  make  a  cream 
batter  paste,  as  per  recipe  already  given,  pour  it  over  them, 
and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  about  an  hour.  Send  to  the  table 
as  soon  as  done,  and  serve  with  or  without  a  dressing  of 
cream,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Children's  Rolly-Poly. 

Take  a  bit  of  light  yeast  dough,  and  knead  it  very  thor- 
oughly; that  made  with  a  third  or  fourth  part  Graham  flour 
is  best.  Then  roll  out  a  thin  sheet,  and  cover  with  rasp- 
berries, blackberries,  or  other  small  fruit;  sprinkle  lightly 
with  sugar,  roll  up  closely,  and  pinch  the  ends  securely  to- 
gether. Wrap  in  a  clean  napkin,  leaving  plenty  of  room 
to  swell,  place  in  a  covered  tin  basin,  set  the  latter  in  the 
steamer,  and  steam  two  hours.  Keep  the  water  at  a  fast 
boil,  and  do  not  uncover  till  done.  Serve  with  mock  cream, 
or  cream  and  sugar. 

Baked  Batter  Pudding.^ 

1  cup  sweet  mill., 
J     "         "     cream. 

1  "    sifted  Graham  flour. 

2  cups     "     white  " 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate* 


PART  in.]  OTHER   PUDDINGS.  341 

%  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
1  "  cream-tartar. 

Time — one  hour. 

Stir  together  the  Graham  and  white  flour,  and  the  cream 
of  tartar;  then  put  all  through  the  sieve,  two  or  three  times. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  add  the  cream  and  milk, 
and  stir  in  the  flour;  then  add  the  dissolved  soda,  and  the 
whites  cut  to  a  froth,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour  the  bat- 
ter into  a  dish  well  oiled,  and  place  inside  a  dripping-pan 
with  a  trifle  of  boiling  water  in  it;  bake  half  an  hour;  then 
remove  from  the  pan,  and  bake  another  half  hour  in  the 
dry  oven.  Better  test  with  a  straw,  and  bake  five  minutes 
after  it  comes  out  clean;  it  will  take  about  an  hour  in  all. 
Serve  as  soon  as  done,  with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice. 

This  pudding  may  be  steamed,  as  follows:  Pour  the  bat- 
ter into  a  tin  basin  well  oiled,  cover,  and  set  in  a  steamer 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Steam  an  hour  and  a  half 
without  lifting  the  lid,  then  take  out,  and  send  straight  to 
the  table. 

Puff  Pudding. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 
1  cup       "       cream. 

1  "      sifted  Graham  flour. 

2  cups      "      white  " 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Time — 25  to  30  minutes,  quick  oven. 

Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  milk  and  cream,  and  stir  in  the 
flour,  Graham  and  white;  when  a  smooth  batter  is  formed, 
whip  and  add  the  whites,  and  beat  hard.  Then  dip  into 
cups,  or  hot  gem-pans  slightly  oiled,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes;  brown  nicely  without 
scorching.  Serve  warm,  with  fruit,  fruit  sauce,  or  cream 
and  su<?ar. 


34:2  health  in  the  household.  [part  hi. 

Boiled  Batter  Pudding. 

2  cups  sour  milk — or  sour  cream. 
1^    "    sifted  Graham  flour. 
2      "         "      white 

1  cup  seedless  raisins. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Time — an  hour  and  a  half. 

Dredge  the  fruit  with  a  little  of  the  flour,  and  beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  separately;  then  stir  together  the  yolks, 
the  milk,  and  the  rest  of  the  flour,  to  form  a  batter.  Add 
the  whipped  whites  and  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  very  thor- 
oughly. Last  of  all  put  in  the  fruit,  stirring  lightly,  but 
mixing  it  in  evenly.  Wring  the  pudding-bag  out  of  hot 
water,  flour  it  well  inside,  and  pour  in  the  batter;  then  tie 
securely,  leaving  plenty  of  room  to  swell,  drop  into  a  pot 
of  boiling  water,  and  boil  constantly  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Add  more  water — always  boiling  hot — as  it  is  needed;  turn 
over  now  and  then,  and  keep  the  pot  closely  covered  be- 
tween times.  When  done,  plunge  the  bag  into  a  basin  of 
cold  water,  and  remove  instantly;  then  turn  the  pudding 
out  on  a  plate,  and  send  directly  to  the  table.  Serve  with 
cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice. 

This  pudding  may  be  steamed  by  pouring  the  batter  into 
a  basin  well  oiled,  and  placing  it,  covered,  inside  a  steamer, 
over  a  pot  of  boiling  water  ;  steam  two  hours  without  un- 
covering. Do  not  fill  too  full,  as  the  pudding  must  have 
room  to  swell. 

Corn  Custard  Pudding.  4(= 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 
1  cup  fine  corn  meal. 
\  cup  sifted  Graham  flour. 
\     "    sugar. 


PART  III.]  OTHER   PUDDINGS.  343 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

£  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1  "  cream-tartar. 

Time — 20  to  30  minutes,  moderate  oven. 

Heat  the  milk  to  a  boil  in  a  farina-kettle,  if  you  have  one. 
While  doing  this,  sift  the  cream  of  tartar  through  the  flour; 
as  soon  as  the  milk  is  hot  stir  the  corn  meal  into  it,  and 
cook  ten  to  fSteen  minutes,  stirring  well  from  the  bottom. 
Then  pour  the  batter  into  a  bowl  to  cool;  when  cold,  add 
the  yolks  and  sugar  beaten  together,  and  stir  in  the  Gra- 
ham flour;  then  add  the  whipped  whites  and  dissolved  soda, 
and  beat  hard.  Bake  in  deep  gem-pans,  well  oiled;  or  you 
may  pour  the  batter  into  a  pudding-dish,  place  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water,  and  bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or  until 
the  custard  is  set.  Serve  warm  or  cold,  with  cream,  fruit, 
or  lemon  sauce;  or  eat  without  a  dressing. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. 

2  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

2|  cups  coarse  corn  meal — "  flint "  preferred. 

1  cup  Graham  flour,  unsifted. 

-f     "     pure  molasses — or  pure  syrup. 

f     "    finely  powdered  beef  suet. 

li  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time — two  to  three  hours. 

Scald  the  meal  with  the  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
stand  till  you  have  powdered  the  suet,  and  worked  it  into 
the  flour.  Then  add  to  the  first  mixture  the  milk  and  mo- 
lasses, beating  them  well  together;  stir  in  the  flour,  add  the 
dissolved  soda,  and  beat  very  thoroughly.  Wring  the  pud- 
ding-bag out  of  hot  water,  flour  it  well  inside,  and  pour  in 
the  batter;  tie  securely,  leaving  plenty  of  room  to  swell,  and 
boil  without  stopping,  from  two  to  three  hours — all  of  three, 


344  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

if  there  is  time.  Keep  plenty  of  water  in  the  pot  (always 
adding  it  boiling),  and  turn  the  bag  over  frequently;  the 
pot  must  be  kept  closely  covered.  If  preferred  you  can  boil 
in  a  covered  mould,  well  oiled;  the  water  must  not  reach 
the  top  of  it.  Send  the  pudding  to  the  table  as  soon  as 
done;  cut  it  in  slices,  and  serve  with  lemon  sauce,  fruit,  or 
fruit  sauce.  A  fine  dressing  is  a  spoonful  of  stewed  or  can- 
ned raspberries  to  each  slice,  and  then  a  mock  cream  or  soft 
custard  poured  over. 

If  pure  molasses  or  syrup  can  not  be  had,  and  your 
"country  cousins"  have  failed  to  bring  in  the  genuine 
maple,  or  sorghum,  then  try  melting  some  granulated  sugar 
in  a  little  water.  You  may  steam  this  pudding  if  preferred, 
instead  of  boiling. 

Steamed  Indian  Pudding. 

3  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1 J    "    coarse  corn  meal — golden  "  flint "  is  best. 

1  cup  Graham  flour,  unsifted. 

1     "     currants,  seedless  raisins,  chopped  apples,  dried 
cherries,  or  huckleberries. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1^  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Time — two  hours. 
The  fruit  must  be  carefully  picked  over,  washed  and 
dried,  and  then  dredged  with  a  little  of  the  Graham  flour. 
Mix  together  the  grains  and  milk,  forming  a  smooth  batter, 
then  add  the  sugar  and  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  hard.  Stir 
in  the  fruit  lightly,  pour  the  batter  into  a  pan  or  mould  well 
oiled,  cover  the  latter,  leaving  room  to  swell,  and  steam  two 
hours;  keep  the  water  at  a  fast  boil,  and  do  not  lift  the  lid 
till  the  pudding  is  done.  Serve  warm,  with  cream,  fruit,  or 
lemon  sauce;  the  latter  is  best. 

In  making  this  pudding,  almost  any  of  the  dried  fruits 
may  be  used;  even  dried  apples,  carefully  picked  over  and 


PART  HI.]  OTHER    PUDDINGS.  345 

washed,  cut  in  small  bits,  and  stirred  into  the  batter  before 
steaming,  make  a  fair  substitute  for  other  and  more  expen- 
sive fruits. 

Steamed  Indian  Pudding.  4£ 

2  cups  sweet  milk — or  enough  for  soft  batter. 

li   "    boiling  water. 

1\  "    coarse  corn  meal — "  flint "  is  best. 

§  cup  (unbolted)  rye  meal. 

1     "     Graham  flour,  unsifted. 

\     "     sugar — or  pure  molasses. 

1J  cups  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 
Time — three  to  four  hours. 

Dredge  the  fruit  with  a  portion  of  the  flour;  then  scald 
the  corn  meal  with  the  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  till 
nearly  cold.  Mix  the  cream  of  tartar  through  the  Graham 
flour,  add  this  and  the  rye  to  the  scalded  corn  meal,  and 
then  wet  with  the  milk,  stirring  till  a  batter  is  formed  that 
will  pour  readily.  Add  the  sugar  (or  molasses)  and  dis- 
solved soda,  and  beat  till  light ;  then  stir  in  the  dredged 
fruit.  Pour  the  batter  into  an  oiled  pan  or  mould,  leaving 
room  to  swell,  cover,  and  set  it  in  the  steamer;  steam  three 
to  four  hours,  and  do  not  open  till  the  pudding  is  done. 
Serve  with  stewed  or  canned  fruit,  fruit  sauce,  or  lemon 
sauce;  or  it  may  be  eaten  with  a  soft  custard. 

Strawberry  Indian  Pudding. 

1  cup  sour  milk. 

3  cups  boiling  water. 

2  "      coarse  com  meal — yellow  "  flint  "  preferred, 
1  cup  Graham  flour,  unsifted. 

1  quart  strawberries. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 


346  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

1  egg,  well  beaten. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 
Time — two  hours. 

Scald  the  meal  with  the  boiling  water,  and  mash  with  a 
spoon  till  there  are  no  lumps  ;  then  add  the  sour  milk, 
Graham  flour,  egg  and  sugar,  and  stir  well ;  stir  in  also  the 
dissolved  soda,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  lastly  the  fruit, 
mixing  it  lightly  through  the  batter  ;  pour  into  a  well-oiled 
pan,  filling  it  not  nearly  full,  cover  securely  to  keep  out 
the  moisture,  and  place  in  a  steamer  over  a  pot  of  boiling 
water.  Steam  two  hours  without  uncovering,  and  keep  the 
water  at  a  fast  boil.  The  pudding  must  not  stand  after  it 
is  mixed.  Serve  warm  or  cold,  with  mock  cream,  or  cream 
and  sugar.  If  a  piece  is  left  over,  it  may  be  dipped  into 
cold  water,  and  laid,  covered,  in  a  hot  oven  till  it  is  well 
heated  through. 

Kaspberries,  seeded  cherries,  or  chopped  apples  may  be 
used  instead  of  strawberries. 

Huckleberry   Indian  Pudding. 

3  cups  sweet  milk — or  enough  for  a  soft  batter. 

2  "      coarse  corn  meal — golden  "  flint "  is  best. 
1  cup  "middlings." 

1  quart  huckleberries. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Time — two  hours  and  a  half. 

Mix  the  above,  stirring  the  fruit  in  lightly  at  the  last,  and 
forming  a  batter  that  will  pour  readily  ;  the  berries  should 
be  well  dredged  with  flour.  Oil  a  round  pudding-dish, 
pour  in  the  batter,  cover,  and  steam  two  hours  and  a  half 
without  lifting  the  lid  of  the  steamer.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream,  or  cream  and  sugar. 


part  m.]  other  puddings.  347 

Rice  and  Raisin  Pudding. 
3  pints  sweet  milk. 
1  quart  water. 
1  cup  rice,  picked  over  carefully,  and  washed. 

1  "     raisins,    " 

Time — two  hours,  slow  oven. 

Put  the  rice  and  raisins  into  the  water,  add  half  the 
milk,  and  set  the  dish  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it  will 
heat  slowly  to  a  boil ;  cook  ten  minutes,  and  take  from  the 
fire.  Add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  pour  the  pudding  into  a 
dish,  and  place  it  inside  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water  ;  bake, 
covered,  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours,  or  till  the  pudding  thickens. 
Stir  from  the  bottom  once  or  twice,  the  first  half  hour  ; 
when  done  it  should  be  thick  and  creamy,  rather  than  firm. 
Serve  cold  or  lukewarm  without  a  dressing,  or  with  juicy 
fruit,  stewed  or  canned. 

If  you  have  not  the  raisins,  you  may  take  currants  in- 
stead ;  or  you  can  leave  out  the  fruit,  and  add  a  third  of  a 
cup  of  sugar. 

Rice  and  Berry  Pudding. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 

2    "      cold  rice,  samp  or  barley. 

2    "      raspberries,  blackberries,  seeded  cherries,  or 

chopped  apples. 
J  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Time — one  hour,  slow  oven. 

Soften  the  cold  rice  (or  other  grain)  with  the  milk,  work- 
ing out  all  the  lumps  ;  then  stir  in  the  yolks  and  sugar 
beaten  together,  and  also  the  well-whipped  whites.  Add 
the  fruit,  mixing  it  in  lightly  ;  pour  the  batter  into  a  dish, 
set  in  a  dripping-pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  slowly  one 
hour.  Serve  cold  or  lukewarm,  with  or  without  a  dressing 
of  cream. 


348  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Rice   and   Apple   Pudding.  4(= 
3  quarts  sliced  apples,  rather  tart. 
1  cup  rice,  picked  over  carefully,  and  washed. 

1  "     cold  water. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 

Time — two  hours,  slow  oven. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish  with  a  layer  of  the 
sliced  apples,  and  sprinkle  over  them  a  portion  of  the  rice  ; 
then  more  apples,  then  rice.  Continue  till  they  are  all  used, 
making  the  last  layer  apples.  Some  like  the  addition  of  a 
cup  of  currants,  or  seedless  raisins,  sprinkled  between  the 
layers.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and '  set 
the  dish,  covered,  in  the  oven,  within  a  dripping-pan  con- 
taining boiling  water  ;  bake  slowly,  one  hour.  At  the  end 
of  that  time,  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  bake 
half  an  hour ;  then  add  another  cup  of  water,  boiling  hot, 
and  bake  another  half  hour.  Serve  lukewarm,  with  cream, 
fruit,  or  fruit  sauce. 

Manioca  Pudding. — (  With  Fruit) 
\  cup  manioca. 
\     "     sugar. 
1^  pints  strawberries,  raspberries,  huckleberries,  sliced 

peaches,  or  sliced  apples. 
1  quart  boiling  water. 
Time — one  hour,  moderate  oven. 
Pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  manioca,  stirring  mean- 
while to  prevent  lumping  ;  then  stir  in  the  fruit  and  sugar, 
and  bake  in  an  even  oven  one  hour,   or  until   clear.     If 
small  fruits  are  used  in  the  making,  serve  the  pudding  with 
cream  and  sugar  ;  if  sliced  apples  or  peaches,  serve  with 
fruit  (stewed  or  canned),  or  fruit  juice — or,  you  may  take 
cream  and  sugar.     It  may  be  eaten  cold  or  warm. 

In  making  this  pudding,  fruit  juice  is  better  than  the 
berries  ;  a  cupful  would  be  enough. 


PART  III.]  OTHER   PUDDINGS.  3491 

Tapioca  Pudding. — (  With  Raisins.)^ 

3  pints  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  tapioca,  washed  and  drained. 

1  "     raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Time — an  hour  and  ten  minutes,  moderate  oven. 
Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  cold  milk  one  to  two  hours  ;  then 
turn  it  into  a  farina-kettle  and  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  fre- 
quently. As  soon  as  it  is  soft  throughout,  set  it  off  to 
cool  ;  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  and  when  the 
tapioca-milk  is  nearly  cold  stir  them  in.  Then  add  the 
well-whipped  whites,  and  the  raisins  dredged  with  a  little 
flour,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  pudding- 
dish,  set  this  in  a  dripping-pan  with  boiling  water  in  it,  and 
bake,  covered,  an  hour  and  ten  minutes.  The  oven  should 
be  moderate  ;  and  if  the  pudding  is  not  already  browned, 
uncover  ten  minutf  s  at  the  last.  Serve  nearly  cold,  with  or 
without  a  dressing  of  fruit,  or  fruit  juice. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding.  =j£ 

12  apples  pared  and  cored,  and  not  very  tart. 

1  cup  tapioca. 

J    "    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 

J    "     currants,  picked  over  carefully,  and  washed. 

|    "     sugar. 

3  pints  cold  water. 

Juice  of  one  lemon,  or  half  a  cup  of  currant  juice. 

Time — an  hour  and  a  quarter,  good  oven. 
Wash  the  tapioca,  and  after  draining  pour  the  cold  water 
over  it ;  warm  gradually  to  blood  heat,  stirring  now  and 
then.  Continue  the  soaking  and  warming  three  hours,  or 
until  the  tapioca  is  soft ;  then  increase  the  heat  and  cook 
till  clear,  or  nearly  so.     Arrange  the  apples,  pared  and  cored, 


350  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

in  a  pudding-dish,  without  crowding  them  ;  fill  their  centers 
with  the  sweet  fruit,  and  saturate  the  latter  with  the  lemon 
(or  currant)  juice.  Then  pour  over  the  tapioca,  and  bake, 
covered,  an  hour  and  a  quarter  in  a  pretty  hot  oven  ;  the 
dish  should  be  set  in  a  shallow  pan  with  boiling  water  in  it. 
Serve  cold  or  lukewarm,  with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice — 
/or  with  a  mixed  sauce  of  rasj)berries  and  cream  ;  the  rasp- 
berries may  be  fresh,  stewed  or  canned. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding.^ 

3  quarts  sliced  apples,  tart. 

2       "      cold  water — for  soaking. 

2  cups  tapioca,  washed  and  drained. 

Time — three  hours,  slow  oven. 
Pour  the  water  over  the  tapioca,  and  set  it  where  it  will 
get  slightly  warm  ;  let  it  soak  three  to  four  hours,  and  then 
drain  off  all  the  water.  Wash  the  sliced  apples,  and  while 
they  are  still  wet  put  a  layer  of  them  into  the  pudding-dish; 
then  sprinkle  over  these  a  portion  of  the  tapioca,  and  repeat 
the  process  till  the  dish  is  full,  making  the  last  layer  apples. 
Cover  closely,  and  bake  in  rather  a  slow  oven  about  three 
hours ;  when  done,  the  whole  mass  should  be  in  a  jelly. 
Serve  cold  or  lukewarm,  with  fruit  juice,  fruit  sauce,  or 
cream  and  sugar. 

Sliced  or  canned  peaches  may  be  used  instead  of  apples  ; 
and  they  make  a  pudding  equally  good. 

Sago  and  Apple  Pudding. 
3  pints  boiling  water. 
12  tart  apples,  pared  and  cored. 
1  cup  sago. 

J     "    raisins,  seeded  and  chopped. 
x     <(    currants,  picked  over  carefully,  and  washed. 
\     "     sugar. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 
Time — an  hour  and  a  half. 


PART  in.]  OTHER   PUDDINGS.  351 

Wash  the  sago,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  soak  one  hour; 
then  drain  well.  Fill  the  centers  of  the  apples  with  the 
sweet  fruit,  and  place  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding- 
dish.  Then  dissolve  the  sago  by  pouring  the  boiling  water 
over  it,  and  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  lumping  ;  stir  in 
the  lemon  and  sugar,  and  pour  it  over  the  apples.  Set  the 
dish  in  a  moderate  oven,  within  a  dripping-pan  of  boiling 
water,  and  bake,  covered,  an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  nearly 
cold  with  cream  and  sugar,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice. 

Granula  Pudding. 

3  pints  sweet  milk. 

1  cup  granula. 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Time — one  hour,  slow  oven. 

Granula  is  made  by  heating  bits  of  Graham  bread  in  the 
oven  till  brittle,  then  pounding  or  breaking  them  in  small 
pieces,  and  grinding  in  a  hand-mill.  These  are  more 
properly,  hygienic  "rusk  crumbs";  they  may  be  soaked  in 
milk  half  an  hour,  and  then  eaten.  Sometimes  they  are 
used  for  puddings  ;  a  very  good  one  is  made  with  the  above 
ingredients,  as  follows  : 

Pour  the  milk  into  a  farina-kettle,  and  bring  to  a  boil ; 
then  take  it  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  granula,  and  soak  till 
the  mixture  is  nearly  cold.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  to- 
gether, and  stir  them  in;  then  the  well- whipped  whites;  set 
the  dish  in  a  slow  oven,  and  bake  one  hour,  or  till  the  pud- 
ding is  firm  in  the  center;  cover  the  top  while  baking. 
Serve  lukewarm,  without  sauce. 

Cracked  Wheat  Pudding. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 

2     "      cold  cracked  wheat. 


352  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

1  cup  seeded  cherries — or  red  or  black  raspberries. 
J     "     sugar. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separatee 
Time — one  hour,  slow  oven. 

Mix  together  the  milk,  fruit  and  wheat,  add  the  yolks  and 
sugar  beaten  together,  and  also  the  whipped  whites  ;  stir 
thoroughly,  pour  into  a  dish,  and  place  covered,  inside  a 
dripping-pan  with  boiling  water  in  it.  Have  rather  a  slow 
oven,  and  bake  about  an  hour.  Serve  cold  or  lukewarm, 
with  mock  cream  or  fruit  sauce;  or  the  pudding  may  be 
eaten  without  a  dressing. 

Canned  cherries  with  the  juice  drained  off,  may  be  used 
instead  of  raw  fruit;  and  cold  rice,  samp  or  barley,  may 
take  the  place  of  cracked  wheat 

Irish  Potato  Pudding.  4f: 

3  cups  sweet  milk — nsw  ia  best. 

J  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

8  potatoes,  medium  size. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Time — 40  minutes,  slow  oven. 
Wash,  peel  and  boil  the  potatoes,  taking  from  the  fire  the 
moment  a  fork  will  go  through  them  easily  ;  drain  off  all 
the  water,  and  mash  fine.  Then  add  the  mukr  stir  the  po- 
tato well  into  it,  and  rub  through  a  colandev.  Beat  the 
yolks,  lemon  and  sugar  together,  and  stir  them  in  :  add  also 
the  whites  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  thoroughly. 
Pour  the  batter  into  a  pudding-dish,  well  oiled,  set  it  within 
a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
forty  minutes.     Serve  nearly  cold,  without  a  dressing. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 
3  cups  sweet  milk — new,  if  you  have  it. 
3     "         "      potato,  finely  mashed. 


PART  III.J  PLAIN    DESSERTS.  353 

J  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Time — ±0  minutes,  slow  oven. 

Select  good  dry  sweet  potatoes,  and  steam  or  boil  till  a 
fork  will  go  through  them  easily.  Then  remove  the  skins, 
and  trim  off  any  defective  spots,  or  stringy  ends.  Mash 
fine,  mix  with  the  milk,  and  put  through  a  colander  to  re- 
move any  lumps,  or  fibrous  portions.  Then  beat  the  yolks, 
lemon  and  sugar  together,  and  stir  them  in  ;  add  the  whites 
cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour  into  a  pud- 
ding-dish, slightly  oiled,  place  in  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling- 
water,  and  bake  slowly  forty  minutes.  Serve  cold,  or  luke- 
warm, without  a  dressing. 


PLAIN  DESSERTS. 

The  following  plain  desserts  are  most  of  them  mushes, 
or  simple  fruit  preparations,  that  may  be  served  with  a 
dressing  of  stewed  fruit,  fruit  juice,  or  cream  and  sugar  ; 
or  instead  of  the  latter,  whipped  cream  flavored  with  fruit 
may  be  used.  They  will  be  found  convenient,  both  on  ac- 
count of  their  simplicity,  and  the  readiness  with  which  they 
can  be  prepared  ;  and  most  of  them  can  be  served  cold,  as 
well  as  warm. 

Dried  Fruit  Pudding. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 

2      "     cold  water. 

2      "     stale  bread-crumbs,  finely  grated. 

2      "     dried  fruit — cherries,  peaches,  apples,  etc. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Time — an  hour  and  a  half,  slow  oven. 

Cook  the  fruit  in  very  little  water  till  nearly  done,  but 
not  broken  to  pieces  ;  then  set  it  off  to  cool.     In  the  mean 


354  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  m« 

time,  soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  and  water ;  when  the 
bread  is  soft  turn  all  together,  add  the  sugar,  and  stir 
lightly.  Pour  the  batter  into  a  deep  dish,  cover,  set  within 
a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a  very  slow 
oven  an  hour  and  a  half.  For  double  the  quantity,  bake 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes  longer.  Serve  with  juicy  fruit,  or 
with  cream  ;  the  pudding  may  be  eaten  cold  or  warm. 

Brown  Betty.  4(= 
3  pints  tart,  juicy  apples,  chopped. 
3  cups  grated  bread-crumbs,  stale. 

1  cup  seedless  raisins — if  desired. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Time — one  hour,  rather  slow  oven. 
Oil  the  pudding-dish,  and  put  into  it  a  layer  of  the  apples, 
about  an  inch  thick  ;  then  add  a  light  sprinkle  of  sugar,  a 
portion  of  the  raisins,  and  some  of  the  lemon  juice.  Fol- 
low with  a  layer  of  crumbs — good  home-made  Graham  loaf, 
if  you  have  it — half  an  inch  thick  ;  then  another  of  apples, 
twice  the  thickness.  Continue  in  the  same  order  until  the 
dish  is  full,  ending  with  a  very  thin  layer  of  fine  crumbs. 
If  the  apples  are  not  pretty  juicy,  pour  a  third  of  a  cup  of 
water  over  the  pudding  before  baking.  Cover  the  dish, 
place  inside  a  dripping-pan  with  boiling  water  in  it,  and 
bake  slowly,  at  least  an  hour ;  with  the  raisins,  a  little 
longer  would  be  better.  Uncover  at  the  end,  and  brown 
quickly.  Serve  lukewarm,  with  or  without  a  dressing  of 
cream,  or  cream  and  sugar.  Strawberries,  raspberries, 
seeded  cherries,  or  other  small  fruits,  may  be  used  instead 
of  apples.     The  lemon  can  be  omitted,  if  desired. 

Child's  Fruit  Pudding. 
1  quart  sweet  milk — new,  if  you  have  it. 
I      "      fine  bread-crumbs,  stale. 


PART  HI.]  PLAIN    DESSEETS.  355 

2  quarts  berries,  cherries,  or  other  ripe  fruit. 

1  to  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  according  to  tartness  of 

fruit. 
Pinch  of  soda,  finely  pulverized,  in  the  milk. 
Time — 50  minutes,  slow  oven. 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil ;  then  fill  a  pudding-dish  with 
alternate  layers  of  crumbs  and  fruit,  beginning  and  ending 
with  the  crumbs.  Sprinkle  each  layer  of  fruit  lightly  with 
the  sugar  ;  or  if  fully  ripe  and  not  very  tart,  the  sugar  may 
be  left  out.  The  dish  must  not  be  too  full ;  pour  the  hot 
milk  over  the  pudding,  cover  closely,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  within  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  water ;  it  will  require 
about  fifty  minutes.  Serve  warm  or  lukewarm,  with  mock 
cream,  fruit  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Instead  of  small  fruits,  tart  apples  finely  sliced  or  chopped 
may  be  used,  and  the  pudding  baked  all  of  an  hour. 

Bread  and  Fruit  Dessert. 

Fill  a  pudding-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  thinly  sliced 
bread  and  stewed  fruit,  as  raspberries  or  blackberries  ;  the 
fruit  should  be  boiling  hot.  If  the  bread  is  slightly  toasted, 
it  is  an  improvement ;  home-made  Graham  loaf  is  best. 
Before  putting  in  the  fruit,  drain  off  most  of  the  juice  into 
a  separate  bowl ;  then  place  the  layers  of  bread  in  the  dish, 
spreading  each  with  the  fruit,  and  when  all  is  in  pour  the 
hot  juice  over.  Cover  with  a  plate,  and  set  in  a  cool  place 
till  time  to  serve  ;  in  cold  weather,  it  is  best  to  warm  the 
dessert  through  in  the  oven,  before  sending  to  the  table. 
It  may  be  eaten  with  or  without  a  dressing  of  mock  cream, 
stewed  fruit,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

This  is  a  convenient  dish  in  hot  weather,  for  dinner  or 
lunch,  as  it  requires  little  or  no  cooking  in  preparing  it. 

24 


356  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 


Boiled  Suet  Pudding. 

1J  cups  sour  milk — or  buttermilk. 

1£      "     sifted  Graham  Hour. 

2        "         "      white 

|  cup  beef  suet,  finely  powdered. 

1     (scant)  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water., 

Time — an  hour  and  a  half. 
Make  a  batter  of  the  milk  and  flour,  stir  in  the  suet,  add 
the  dissolved  soda,  and  beat  well.  Then  pour  it  into  a 
floured  bag,  or  an  oiled  mould  with  closely  fitting  cover, 
leave  plenty  of  room  to  swell,  and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half 
without  stopping.  Or  you  may  pour  the  batter  into  a  basin 
well  oiled,  cover  with  an  inverted  pie-pan,  and  set  in  a 
steamer  ;  steam  two  hours,  keeping  the  water  at  a  fast  boil, 
and  the  steamer  tightly  closed.  Serve  as  soon  as  done,  with 
lemon  sauce,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Suet  Dumplings. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  "     sifted  Graham  flour. 

2  cups    "      white         " 

|  cup  beef  suet,  finely  powdered. 

|  teaspoonful  soda. 

1J  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

Time — 15  minutes. 
Turn  the  Graham  and  white  flour  together,  and  sift  the 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar  through  it  several  times;  these 
must  be  finely  pulverized.  Then  rub  the  powdered  suet 
through  the  flour  very  thoroughly,  and  wet  with  the  milk  to 
form  a  moderately  stiff  paste;  knead  as  little  as  possible. 
Pinch  off  the  dough  in  small  bits,  drop  these  into  a  pot  of 
boiling  water,  and  boil  rapidly  fifteen  minutes  ;  keep  the 
pot  closely  covered.  Serve  immediately,  with  lemon  sauce, 
or  cream  and  sugar. 


part  iii.]  plain  desserts.  357 

Rice  and  Apple  Pudding. 
Take  cold  boiled  rice,  well  moulded,  and  cut  it  in  slices 
half  an  inch  thick;  put  into  a  pudding-dish  a  layer  of  the 
rice,  and  one  of  equal  thickness  of  grated  or  stewed  apples. 
Repeat  these  until  the  dish  is  full,  ending  with  a  thin  layer 
of  the  apples;  then  set  the  dish  into  another  containing 
boiling  water,  and  bake  covered,  in  a  moderate  oven,  one 
hour.  Serve  warm  with  cream  and  sugar,  stewed  fruit,  or 
fruit  sauce.  The  layers  may  be  made  with  rice  and  raspber- 
ries, seeded  cherries,  or  other  small  fruits,  which  if  tart, 
may  be  lightly  sprinkled  with  sugar. 

Frumenty. 

This  harvest  dish,  sometimes  called  "furmity,"  is  made 
by  taking  the  whole  wheat  newly  cut,  and  rubbed  or 
threshed  out,  and  boiling  it  in  water  till  soft.  The  recipe, 
which  is  an  "  old  country  "  one,  taken  from  a  British  jour- 
nal on  Dietetics,  is  as  follows  :  "  To  cook  it  (the  wheat)  put 
it  on  in  cold  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  then  stew 
gently  till  every  grain  bursts  open  like  a  little  mealy  po- 
tato.'' 

It  will  require  several  hours'  steaming  or  boiling;  and  the 
wheat  should  be  as  new  and  tender  as  possible.  The  best 
plan  is  to  start  it  in  plenty  of  cold  water — say  one  part 
wheat  and  four  or  five  parts  water — and  cook  in  a  farina- 
kettle  ;  this  saves  the  trouble  of  stirring,  and  prevents  stick- 
ing. When  done,  you  can  stir  in  a  little  cream  or  milk,  if 
you  like,  and  simmer  five  minutes;  some  add  sugar  and  a 
beaten  egg,  along  with  the  milk, — though  that  is  a  depart- 
ure from  the  original  method.  This  dish  is  said  by  those 
who  have  eaten  it,  to  be  delicious. 

Farina  Mush.=£ 
To  a  quart  of  boiling  water  allow  half  a  cup  of  farina  ; 
add  it  very  slowly,  and  stir  well  to  prevent  lumping.  .  Cook 


358  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the  mush  thickens,  stirring 
constantly;  then  pour  in  a  third  of  a  cup  of  cream,  and  cook 
two  minutes  longer,  using  the  spoon  till  done.  Serve  warm 
with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice  ;  stewed  raspberries  (or 
raspberries  and  currants  mixed),  make  a  good  dressing ;  so 
do  stewed  cherries. 

Farina  Mush.^ji 

Heat  a  quart  of  water  to  a  boil  in  a  farina-kettle,  and  stir 
in  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  farina;  cook  fifteen  minutes,  stir- 
ring almost  constantly.  Then  add  a  pint  of  milk  (new,  if 
you  have  it),  and  cook  five  minutes  longer,  stirring  once  or 
twice.     Serve  the  same  as  the  last. 

Graham  Pudding. — (  With  Fruit.) 

Make  a  mush  with  Graham  flour,  cooking  over  a  moder- 
ate fire  twenty  minutes;  then  stir  in  fresh  clean  dates — 
being  careful  not  to  break  the  fruit — let  the  mixture  heat 
two  minutes,  and  pour  it  into  cups  or  moulds  dipped  in 
cold  water;  if  into  cups,  fill  half  or  two-thirds  full.  When 
moulded  turn  out  on  a  plate,  and  serve  with  cold  cream,  or 
stewed  fruit. 

Minute  Pudding. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1       "      water. 

1  cup  sifted  Graham  flour. 

|     "        "       white 

Time — 15  to  20  minutes. 

The  "  minute  "  pudding,  so  called,  is  a  misnomer,  as  it 
can  not  be  cooked  in  sixty  seconds.  Turn  the  milk  and 
water  into  a  farina-kettle,  and  heat  to  a  boil;  then  stir  in 
first  (very  slowly),  the  Graham  flour,  as  it  is  less  liable  to 
lump.  Follow  with  the  white  flour,  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
cook   fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  stirring  as  little  and  as 


PART  III. 


PLAIN    DESSERTS.  359 


lightly  as  possible;  keep  the  kettle  covered  between  times. 
As  soon  as  done  lift  from  the  fire,  but  leave  the  pudding 
three  to  five  minutes  with  the  hot  water  around  it,  before 
taking  it  up.  If  you  have  no  farina-kettle,  you  may  make 
in  a  stone  or  earthen  crock  set  on  top  of  the  stove,  and 
cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  lightly  two  or  three  times.  Take 
from  the  fire  a  few  moments  before  dishing  for  the  table. 
Serve  lukewarm,  with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice — or  if  you 
have  it,  with  strawberry  cream. 

If  you  make  of  "  best  Akron "  flour,  use  all  Graham  to 
thicken. 

Blackberry  Mush.  4^= 

2  quarts  blackberries. 
H  pints  water. 
1  cup  sifted  Graham  flour. 
1     "        "       white 
Time — about  20  minutes. 

Put  the  berries  and  water  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and 
bring  to  a  boil ;  heat  slowly  five  minutes.  Then  thicken 
with  the  Graham  flour,  taking  care  that  there  are  no  lumps; 
stir  in  also  the  white  flour,  cover  the  kettle  closely,  and  set 
it  where  the  mush  will  continue  to  cook,  but  will  not  scorch. 
Let  it  remain  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  or  twice  ; 
then  set  it  back  on  the  stove,  and  in  a  few  minutes  pour 
into  a  mould  to  cool;  dip  the  latter  into  cold  water  before 
filling  it.     Serve  with  mock  cream,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

If  preferred,  thicken  with  farina  or  corn-starch  (using 
nearly  a  cupful),  and  cook  as  before. 

Dumplings.  4£ 

For  fruit  dumplings,  see  Part  II.,  under  Pastries.  They 
may  be  served  with  or  without  a  dressing  of  cream,  or 
cream  and  sugar. 


360  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

PUDDING  SAUCES,  CREAMS,  Etc. 

The  pudding  sauces  that  are  here  given,  are  all  of  the 
plain  kind,  properly  so  called;  no  wines,  no  brandies,  no 
spices,  no  "  flavoring  extracts,"  no  butter,  and  only  a  mini- 
mum quantity  of  sugar.  After  rejecting  all  these,  we  still 
have  left  every  variety  of  choice  fruit,  with  the  addition  of 
sweet  cream;  add  to  these  a  little  sugar  and  lemon,  a  trifle 
of  corn-starch  or  flour,  and  an  egg  or  two,  and  there  is  no 
end  to  the  dressings  that  can  be  made.  Really,  a  pudding 
that  needs  pungent  spices,  salty  grease  (butter),  "  quantities 
of  sugar,"  and  alcoholic  spirits  to  make  it  palatable,  had 
better  be  let  alone. 

The  raspberry  and  other  creams  that  follow  these  sauces, 
may  if  preferred,  be  used  as  a  dressing  for  puddings, 
mushes,  moulded  grains,  etc.,  instead  of  plain  cream  and 
sugar. 

Sweet  Cream. 

The  sauce  needing  least  preparation,  though  by  no  means 
the  least  palatable,  is  good  sweet  cream,  with  or  without  the 
addition  of  sugar;  in  cities,  however,  this  is  not  always 
easy  to  get.  If  sweetened,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to 
a  pint  of  cream,  is  sufficient;  a  better  way,  however,  is  to 
serve  the  sugar  separately,  and  then  pass  the  cold  cream, 
unsweetened. 

Mock  Cream.  4}= 

1  pint  good  sweet  milk — new,  if  you  have  it. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  even  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 

Heat  the  milk  to  scalding,  in  a  farina-kettle;  stir  in  the 

sugar,  and  the  corn-starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk;  bring 

just  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly;  then  set  the  kettle  up 

where  the  mixture  will  keep  hot  without  boiling.     Have 


PART  III.]  PUDDING    SAUCES,  CREAMS,  ETC.  361 

ready  the  whipped  whites,  add  a  little  of  the  hot  milk,  and 
beat  well  as  you  pour  it  in;  then  add  more  in  the  same  way, 
and  finally  turn  all  together.  Pour  the  whole  back  into  the 
farina-kettle,  return  to  the  fire,  and  stir  till  it  thickens  to 
the  consistency  of  cream.     Serve  cold  or  lukewarm. 

If  preferred,  you  may  use  one  egg,  yolk  and  white,  in- 
stead of  the  whites  of  two. 

Soft  Custard.  4£ 
3  cups  good  rich  milk. 
3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
2  teaspoonfuls  white  flour. 

1  egg- 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Wet  the  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  of  the  cold 
milk;  then  thin  it  by  stirring  in  more  milk,  say  one  cup; 
put  this  into  a  farina-kettle  and  heat  almost  to  boiling, 
using  the  spoon  every  moment.  Add  the  rest  of  the  milk, 
and  heat  again  till  ready  to  boil,  but  no  more;  stir  well,  and 
set  it  off.  Then  beat  the  egg,  lemon  and  sugar  together, 
and  pour  over  these  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  mixing- 
well.  Keturn  the  custard  to  the  kettle,  and  boil  till  it  thick- 
ens, stirring  constantly;  then  remove  from  the  fire.  Let  it 
cool  to  lukewarm  before  using. 

If  a  thicker  dressing  is  wanted,  take  two  eggs  instead  of 
one;  and  when  you  have  stirred  the  flour  into  the  milk  and 
heated  it  to  boiling,  lift  off  the  kettle;  then  beat  together 
the  yolks,  lemon  and  sugar,  and  proceed  as  before.  Stir  in 
the  whites  as  soon  as  you  take  the  custard  from  the  fire. 

Lemon  Sauce.  =f£ 
1  pint  boiling  water. 
1  dessert  spoonful  corn-starch. 
|  cup  sugar. 
Juice  of  two  lemons. 


362  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  into  a  small  porcelain  kettle,  and 
set  it  over  the  fire;  wet  the  corn-starch  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  it  in;  cook  five  minutes,  or 
till  the  mixture  thickens.  Then  squeeze  the  lemon  juice 
into  the  sugar,  and  stir  it  in  also;  boil  one  minute,  stirring 
constantly,  and  take  from  the  fire.  Leave  the  sauce  with 
the  hot  water  around  it,  ten  minutes;  then  cool  to  blood 
heat  before  sending  to  the  table.  This  plain  but  excellent 
sauce  is  quickly  and  easily  made,  and  may  be  used  cold  or 
warm.     It  should  be  about  as  thick  as  cream. 

In  making  lemon  sauce,  use  always  a  porcelain  or  granit- 
ized  iron  kettle;  by  no  means  brass,  tin,  or  glazed  ware,  as 
lemon  corrodes  it. 

Fruit  Sauce. 

1  quart  fruit  juice — unsweetened. 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 

3  to  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  according  to  acidity  of 

fruit. 

Prepare  the  fruit  juice  as  per  recipes  given  in  Part  II., 
Fruits  and  Fruit  Juices,  leaving  out  the  sugar;  then  put  it 
into  a  porcelain  kettle,  sweeten,  and  heat  to  a  boil.  Stir  in 
the  corn-starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  water,  boil  gently, 
stirring  constantly,  and  cook  ten  minutes,  or  till  the  mix- 
ture thickens;  it  must  not  taste  raw.  Send  to  the  table 
cold  or  lukewarm. 

Another  way,  hardly  as  good,  is  the  following:  Take  one 
pint  of  milk  and  one  of  fruit  juice;  sweeten  the  latter  while 
hot  (two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  the  juice  is 
ample),  then  heat  and  thicken  the  milk,  stir  in  the  juice, 
and  cook  as  before. 

The  juices  used  in  this  sauce  may  be  prepared  in  sum- 
mer, and  put  into  glass  cans  for  winter;  the  best  fruits  for 
this  purpose,  are  raspberries,  strawberries,  and  currants. 
In  stewing  the  fruit  preparatory  to  straining  and  canning, 


PART  in.]  PUDDING    SAUCES,  CREAMS,  ETC.  363 

cook  just  long  enough  to  heat  the  mass  thoroughly.  Then 
put  it  through,  an  earthen  colander  (a  tin  one  discolors  the 
liquid),  or  squeeze  through  a  cloth — a  coarse  linen,  or 
cheese-cloth,  if  you  have  it.  Heat  again  to  a  boil,  and  put 
the  juice  into  the  cans. 

Mixed  Sauce. 

Many  plain  puddings  are  excellent  served  with  a  mixed 
dressing,  as  follows:  Over  the  slice  of  pudding  served  to 
each  person,  put  a  spoonful  of  stewed  (or  canned)  rasp- 
berries, strawberries,  or  other  fruit,  and  then  add  to  it  a 
little  cold  cream,  mock  cream,  or  soft  custard.  This  makes 
a  more  wholesome  dressing  than  the  custard  alone,  and  the 
fruit  imparts  an  agreeable  flavor. 

Dressing  of  Fruit. 

A  very  good  dressing,  and  one  that  is  well  suited  to  some 
of  the  plainer  puddings,  is  simple  stewed  or  canned  fruit, 
or  fruit  juice,  sweetened  if  tart,  with  a  little  sugar.  Straw- 
berries, raspberries,  blackberries,  cherries,  plums,  peaches, 
or  apricots,  are  excellent  used  in  this  way;  and  they  are  far 
more  wholesome  than  even  the  "  plain  sauces,"  made  with 
milk,  eggs,  sugar,  corn-starch,  etc.,  to  say  nothing  of  the 
wine,  brandy,  butter,  bitter  almonds,  etc.,  etc.,  that  so  often 
find  their  way  into  these  dressings. 

Whipped  Cream. 

1  pint  thick  sweet  cream. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  eggs — whites  of;  some  use  but  one. 

Set  the  cream  on  ice  (or  in  the  refrigerator)  until  it  is 
thoroughly  chilled;  you  may  put  the  eggs  also  in  the  ice- 
chest  till  cold.  Then  beat  the  whites,  add  the  cream  with 
the  sugar  stirred  into  it,  and  whip  with  an  egg-beater,  or 


364  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  PH.. 

whip-churn,  until  a  froth  forms  on  top.  If  you  can  spare 
the  time,  lay  the  latter  on  a  sieve  as  it  rises,  and  return  to 
the  bowl  or  churn  the  cream  that  drips  through.  When  no 
more  will  rise,  put  the  cream  in  a  glass  dish,  and  pile  the 
froth  on  top.  Some  think  it  best  to  sweeten  and  whip  the 
cream  by  itself,  adding  the  beaten  whites  at  the  last,  or 
after  the  cream  is  partly  whipped;  you  can  try  it. 

This  is  a  fine  dressing,  either  for  puddings  or  fruit;  place 
the  pudding,  berries  or  other  fruit  in  the  center  of  a  glass 
dish,  and  surround  with  the  cream.  Or  if  preferred,  serve 
the  fruit  separately,  and  pass  the  cream  afterward. 

Snow  Cream. 

Prepare  and  whip  the  cream  as  directed  in  the  last 
recipe — not  in  July,  but  during  the  "cold  and  stormy 
months";  then  stir  in  newly  fallen  snow  that  is  light  and 
feathery,  and  you  have  "  ice-cream,"  or  rather,  snow-cveam., 
ready-made. 

Strawberry  Cream.— {CJhoice.)^ 

1  pint  sweet  cream. 

1  "    ripe  strawberries — caps  removed. 
|  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 

Sprinkle  over  the  berries  about  half  the  sugar,  and  then 
chop  moderately  with  a  silver  knife— or  you  may  partly 
crush  them  with  a  spoon.  Set  them  in  a  cool  place  for  an 
hour,  then  strain  through  a  clean  linen  cloth,  expressing  all 
the  juice,  and  stir  in  the  rest  of  the  sugar.  If  you  have  not  a 
whip-churn,  put  the  cream  into  a  small  pitcher  (one  that  holds 
two  or  three  pints),  as  that  is  most  convenient  to  whip  in. 
Then  put  the  eggs,  cream,  and  fruit  juice  all  in  the  ice- 
chest,  and  let  them  remain  till  chilled.  When  the  cream  is 
thoroughly  cold,  set  the  pitcher  into  a  basin  of  ice-water, 
and  whip  with  an  egg-beater  till  the  froth  begins  to  rise  ; 


PART  in.]  PUDDING    SAUCES,  CREAMS,  ETC.  365 

then  add  the  cold  juice,  and  whip  again.  Let  an  assistant 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  this  should  be 
done  in  a  cold  room  ;  add  these  to  the  strawberry  cream, 
and  continue  the  whipping  till  no  more  froth  will  rise.  It 
should  be  served  as  soon  as  possible,  after  it  is  prepared. 

In  winter,  when  strawberries  are  out  of  the  question,  use 
strawberry  or  other  fruit  syrup,  and  omit  the  sugar.  To  a 
pint  of  whipped  cream,  add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  syrup,  and  whip  again ;  then  beat  in  the  whites  cut  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  serve. 

Currant  Cream.  4£ 

Wash  the  currants,  drain  well,  and  strip  from  the  stems. 
Then  make  the  same  as  the  last,  only  use  a  trifle  more 
sugar ;  and  when  you  have  partly  whipped  the  cream,  stir 
in  the  currant  juice,  a  little  at  a  time,  for  fear  of  curdling. 
Have  all  the  ingredients  very  cold,  and  serve  as  soon  as 
possible  after  the  cream  is  made. 

Raspberry  Cream.  4£ 
1  pint  sweet  cream. 

1  "    raspberries,  red  or  black. 
J  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 

Put  half  the  sugar  over  the  berries,  partly  crush  them, 
and  after  they  have  stood  an  hour  strain  through  a  clean 
thin  cloth.  Add  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  and  set  the  juice  in 
the  ice-chest,  along  with  the  cream  and  eggs ;  when  they 
are  all  thoroughly  chilled,  beat  the  whites,  add  them  to  the 
cream,  and  whip  (in  a  small  pitcher)  with  an  egg-beater. 
You  may  add  the  fruit  juice  in  the  start,  or  after  you  have 
partly  whipped  the  cream.  When  no  more  froth  will  rise., 
send  it  to  the  table. 

If  red  raspberries  are  used,  take  a  little  more  sugar  ;  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  will  be  enough. 


366  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Cream.  4£ 
1  pint  sweet  cream. 

1  cup  currants,  stripped  from  the  stem. 
3  cups  raspberries,  red  or  black. 

|  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 

Mix  the  raspberries  and  currants  together,  and  make  the 
same  as  the  last ;  let  the  cream,  eggs,  and  juice,  all  be  as 
cold  as  possible  ;  and  use  a  whip-churn,  if  you  have  one. 

Blackberry  and  Other  Creams. 
Blackberry  cream  is  made  like  raspberry  ;  and  huckle- 
berry cream  the  same.  Cherries,  if  carefully  picked  over 
and  seeded,  may  also  be  used,  the  very  acid  varieties  re- 
quiring more  sugar — say  three-fourths  of  a  cup  to  a  pint  of 
seeded  fruit. 

Lemon  Cream. 

1  pint  sweet  cream, 
j  cup  sugar. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 

Put  the  cream,  lemon  and  eggs  into  the  ice-chest  till  they 
are  very  cold  ;  then  beat  the  whites,  add  them  to  the  cream, 
and  whip  well  together.  When  about  half  done  whipping, 
beat  in  the  lemon  juice  (sweetened  with  the  sugar),  a  little 
at  a  time,  for  fear  of  curdling  the  mi]k ;  and  when  done, 
serve  immediately.  In  this  and  other  prepared  creams, 
condensed  milk  diluted  with  two  or  three  times  as  much 
water,  is  often  used  instead  of  ordinary  cream. 

Orange  Cream. 
Select  oranges  of  fine  flavor,  and  not  too  ripe  ;  then  make 
the  same  as  lemon  cream,  using  less  sugar  by  about  one- 
third.     Take  two  oranges  to  a  pint  of  cream. 


pakt  m.]  pudding  sauces,  creams,  etc.  367 

Pine- Apple  Cream. 

1  pint  sweet  cream. 

1  ripe  pine-apple. 
§  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 

Peel  the  pine-apple,  cut  it  in  very  thin  slices,  and  sprinkle 
the  sugar  between  them.  Set  these,  covered,  in  a  cool 
place  ;  after  two  or  three  hours,  chop  the  fruit  up  in  the 
syrup  with  a  silver  knife,  and  strain  through  a  coarse  cloth. 
Put  the  juice  in  the  ice-chest,  together  with  the  cream  and 
eggs  ;  when  all  are  very  cold,  beat  the  juice  gradually  into 
the  cream,  keeping  the  latter  in  a  vessel  of  ice-water  ;  then 
stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  whipped,  and  beat  all  to 
a  good  froth.  A  small  pitcher  is  the  best  to  beat  in,  if  you 
have  not  a  whip-chum. 

Quince  and  Other  Creams. 

Peel  and  slice  the  quinces,  and  stew  in  enough  water  to 
make  them  tolerably  juicy ;  then  take  the  stewed  fruit, 
strain  through  a  coarse  cloth  or  sieve,  and  make  the  same 
as  pine-apple,  using  a  little  more  sugar,  and  having  the  in- 
gredients very  cold.  Serve  this,  and  all  the  creams,  as  soon 
as  possible  after  they  are  made. 

Apples  and  pears  may  be  used  instead  of  quinces  ;  make 
in  the  same  way,  sweetening  according  to  the  acidity  of  the 
fruit.     The  latter  must  be  of  fine  rich  flavor. 

Peach  cream  is  made  with  good  ripe  fruit,  uncooked. 
Peel  and  slice  the  peaches,  sprinkle  on  the  sugar,  and  after 
the  juice  starts  strain  through  a  colander,  or  coarse  cloth  ; 
then  finish  the  same  as  pine-apple.  Do  not  make  too  sweet; 
half  a  cup  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  sliced  fruit,  would  be 
enough.  Put  all  in  the  ice-chest  to  get  as  cold  as  possible, 
before  making  the  cream. 


368  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGES,  Etc. 

For  several  reasons,  custards,  like  cakes,  jellies,  preserves 
and  pickles,  can  not  be  considered  as  any  part  of  a  strictly 
hygienic  dietary.  In  the  first  place  they  consist  essentially 
of  milk,  eggs  and  sugar,  mixed  together,  and  either  baked 
or  boiled.  The  tendency  of  these  articles,  particularly 
when  they  are  cooked  together,  is  to  congest  the  liver  and 
lead  to  biliousness ;  and  the  more  eggs  and  sugar  the 
custard  contains,  the  more  unwholesome  it  is.  Add  to  the 
ingredients  named,  the  various  spices,  extracts,  essences,  etc., 
that  are  put  in  as  flavoring,  and  we  have  a  compound  that 
deserves  to  be  consigned  to  that  department  of  modern 
cookery,  known  as  the  "  Devil's  Corner,"  with  no  index.  In 
this  "corner"  there  would  be  ample  room  for  the  "just 
splendid  "  cakes,  the  "  choice  "  pickles,  the  "  elegant  "  pre- 
serves, jellies,  jams,  etc.,  etc.,  found  in  the  ordinary  cook- 
book ;  to  say  nothing  of  the  tea,  coffee,  ale,  beer,  wine, 
egg-nog,  claret  punch,  cherry  bounce,  and  other  inventions 
of  his  Satanic  Majesty. 

Returning  to  the  custards — if  they  must  be  eaten,  it 
might  be  well  to  suggest  that  they  make  their  appearance 
only  semi-occasionally,  and  in  weather  that  is  cool  and  brac- 
ing, rather  than  warm  and  debilitating.  It  might  be  further 
recommended  that  the  worst  things  in  them  be  left  out ;  and 
the  next  to  the  worst  used  in  limited  quantities.  In  fact, 
those  who  habituate  themselves  to  very  plain  and  simple 
habits  of  eating,  with  few  condiments,  are  on  the  whole, 
better  pleased  with  less  sugar  and  eggs,  and  fewer  flavoring 
extracts,  than  the  average  appetite  demands.  In  the  recipes 
here  given,  the  only  flavoring  recommended,  is  lemon  juice, 
or  fruit  jellies  ;  the  latter  being  used  for  ornament  and 
sweetening,  as  well  as  flavoring. 

In  making  custards,  then,  observe  as  nearly  as  possible, 
the  following  rules  : 


PART  III.]  CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGES,  ETC.  369 

1.  Make  them  only  in  cool  or  cold  weather,  and  not  too 
often. 

2.  Use  as  few  eggs  as  are  necessary,  and  as  little  sugar  as 
the  palate  will  tolerate.  This  latter  (the  palate),  it  must  be 
remembered,  is  susceptible  of  education  or  training,  either 
in  light  or  wrong  directions. 

3.  Have  milk  that  is  free  from  water,  and  otherwise  of  good 
quality  ;  without  good  milk  you  can  not  have  good  custard. 

4.  See  that  the  eggs  are  absolutely  fresh;  the  worst  of 
dishes  is  a  custard  made  with  stale  eggs. 

5.  Have  the  eggs  cold,  separate  the  yolks  and  whites  with 
the  greatest  care,  and  beat  by  themselves — the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth. 

6.  Whip  with  an  egg-beater,  in  an  earthen  or  stoneware 
dish,  never  in  tin  ;  and  if  possible,  beat  the  whites  in  a  cold 
room.     Do  not  let  the  eggs  stand  after  they  are  beaten. 

7.  For  a  plain  custard,  never  take  more  than  four  eggs  to 
a  quart  of  milk — less  will  do,  if  a  little  flour  or  corn-starch 
is  used  to  thicken.  You  can  strain  the  yolks  if  you  like, 
through  a  fine  wire  strainer  kept  for  the  purpose. 

8.  If  flavoring  is  desired,  use  lemon  juice  or  fruit  jellies, 
whipped  into  the  whites,  and  spread  on  top. 

9.  For  boiled  custards,  heat  the  milk  till  it  rises,  either  in 
a  farina-kettle,  or  a  tin  bucket  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water; 
then  stir  in  the  corn-starch,  heat  again,  and  lift  from  the  fire. 
"Whip  the  sugar  into  the  beaten  yolks,  and  add  to  them  the  hot 
milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  meanwhile  to  prevent  curdling. 
"When  all  is  in,  return  it  to  the  kettle,  and  heat  till  the  custard 
begins  to  thicken,  using  the  spoon  constantly  ;  then  lift 
from  the  fire,  beat  in  the  whipped  whites,  and  pour  into 
cups.  Or  if  preferred,  leave  out  the  whites  till  the  custard 
is  cold,  and  either  stir  them  through  it,  or  pile  the  froth  on 
top. 

10.  If  the  custard  is  to  be  baked,  heat  the  milk  nearly  to 
boiling,  and  add  it  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar  in  the 


370  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

manner  just  described.  Then  stir  in  the  well-whipped 
whites,  and  bake  very  slowly.  This  last  is  imperative  ;  you 
can  hardly  have  the  oven  too  moderate,  if  it  bakes  at  all. 


Baked  Custard. 

This  is  about  the  poorest  of  all  the  custard  preparations  ; 
it  has  in  it  neither  "  fruit  nor  f  arinacea  " ;  and  the  method  of 
cooking  is  not  particularly  in  its  favor.  Boiled  custards, 
properly  made,  are  certainly  more  wholesome,  and  in  flavor 
they  are  far  more  delicate.  The  baked  ones,  however,  are 
greatly  improved  by  heating  the  milk  almost  to  a  boil  before 
the  eggs  are  added,  by  using  these  and  the  sugar  in  moder- 
ation, and  by  extremely  slow  cooking  in  the  oven.  See  that 
the  milk  is  free  from  admixture  with  water,  and  other- 
wise of  good  quality  ;  if  not  new,  a  little  cream  added 
would  be  an  improvement. 

To  one  quart  of  good  rich  milk,  allow  from  three  to  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  three  large,  or  four  small  eggs. 
Heat  the  milk  not  quite  to  boiling,  and  lift  from  the  fire  ; 
beat  the  yolks  moderately,  whip  in  the  sugar  till  light,  and 
add  to  these  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Then  stir  in  the  whipped  whites,  pour  into  stone- 
ware cups,  place  these  inside  a  dripping-pan  with  boiling- 
water  in  it,  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven.  As  soon  as  the 
custard  sets,  it  is  done  ;  indeed,  there  is  only  one  correct 
way  in  this  process,  and  that  is  to  bake  slowly,  and  not  a 
moment  too  long  ;  if  cooked  till  it  separates,  the  custard  is 
spoiled.     Serve  nearly  or  quite  cold,  from  the  cups. 

If  desired,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  by  beating  to- 
gether a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  spread  it  over  the  top  the 
moment  the  custard  is  set,  and  close  the  oven  door  till  it 
tinges  a  little. 


part  in.]  custards,  blanc-manges,  etc.  371 

Boiled   Custard.^ 

1  quart  new  milk. 

^  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  corn-starch,  wet  in  cold  milk. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Heat  in  a  farina-kettle,  or  a  tin  bucket  placed  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  ;  when  the  milk  rises  stir  in  the  corn-starch, 
cook  five  minutes,  and  set  it  off.  Having  whipped  the 
sugar  into  the  beaten  yolks,  stir  into  them  a  little  of  the  hot 
milk,  then  more,  then  turn  all  together  ;  heat  again,  using 
the  spoon,  till  the  custard  begins  to  thicken.  Then  remove 
from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  whites  cut  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when 
cool  enough,  pour  either  into  a  deep  glass  dish,  or  into 
glass  or  china  cups.  Serve  nearly  or  quite  cold.  If  you 
like,  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  a  little  sugar  and 
lemon  juice,  and  drop  a  spoonful  of  the  froth  on  the  top  of 
each  cup,  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Another  way — and  it  is  a  good  one — is  to  use  only  the 
yolks  in  making,  and  then  stir  in  the  whipped  whites  the 
last  thing  before  the  custard  is  served. 


'O 


Boiled  Custard.  4£ 

1  quart  new  milk, 
f  cup  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  corn-starch. 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Heat  the  milk  nearly  to  boiling,  wet  the  corn-starch  with 
a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  in  ;  use  the  spoon  constantly, 
till  the  mixture  rises  in  a  foam.  Then  set  up  the  kettle, 
where  it  will  keep  hot  till  you  can  beat  together  the  yolks 
(previously  whipped  a  little)  and  half  the  sugar  ;  stir  into 
these  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  hot  milk,  then  more,  then  all. 
25 


372  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Return  to  the  kettle,  and  cook  till  the  custard  begins  to 
thicken ;  then  take  from  the  fire,  whip  the  whites,  lemon, 
and  the  rest  of  the  sugar  together,  stir  them  in,  and  beat 
till  the  custard  is  nearly  cold.  The  lemon  can  be  omitted, 
if  desired,  and  the  beating  dispensed  with. 

Floating  Islands. 
1  quart  sweet  milk. 
|  cup  sugar. 

4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Pour  the  milk  into  a  farina-kettle,  and  heat  till  it  rises  ; 
then  beat  the  yolks  a  little,  whip  in  half  the  sugar,  and  stir 
into  these  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time.  "When  all  is  ad- 
ded, return  the  custard  to  the  fire  and  boil  till  it  begins  to 
thicken,  stirring  constantly.  When  cold,  pour  it  into  a  wide 
glass  dish,  and  drop  on  in  little  "  islands,"  the  froth  made 
by  beating  together  the  whites,  lemon,  and  the  rest  of  the 
sugar. 

A  more  ornamental  dish  is  made  by  substituting  for  the 
sugar  and  lemon  juice,  half  a  cup  of  cranberry  or  other 
bright  jelly;  beat  this  into  the  whites,  a  teaspoonful  at  a 
time,  and  then  drop  on  the  froth  as  before.  The  islands 
may  be  further  ornamented  by  placing  upon  each,  bits  of  the 
jelly,  laid  on  in  a  pattern. 

Floating  Island. 
1  quart  new  milk. 
\  cup  sugar. 

\     "     cranberry  or  other  bright  jelly. 
^     "     strawberries,  ripe  but  firm. 
4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 
Make  the  custard  the  same  as  the  last,  using  all  the  sugar; 
and  when  cold,  pour  into  a  glass  dish.    Then  whip  the  jelly, 
a  little  at  a  time,  into  the  whites,  spread  it  evenly  over  the 


PART  III.]  CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGES,  ETC.  373 

top,  and  ornament  as  follows:  Cut  the  strawberries  horizon- 
tally into  little  "  wheels,"  and  arrange  them  (the  cut  sides 
always  uppermost)  in  double  rows  on  the  meringue,  either  in 
the  form  of  a  cross,  or  some  other  handsome  pattern.  Or  if  it 
is  not  the  strawberry  season,  use  bright  jellies,  cut  these  in 
diamonds  or  straight  strips,  and  lay  on  in  a  similar  way. 

Eock-Work. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

|  cup  sugar. 

5  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Make  a  soft  custard  according  to  either  of  the  preceding 
recipes,  using  the  yolks,  milk,  and  half  the  sugar  ;  the  mo- 
ment it  thickens  lift  from  the  fire,  and  when  cold  pour  into 
a  glass  dish.  Beat  the  whites  and  the  rest  of  the  sugar  to- 
gether, till  a  stiff  froth  is  formed.  Then  take  it  up,  a  spoon- 
ful at  a  time,  lay  it  upon  boiling  milk,  and  carefully  with- 
draw the  spoon;  as  soon  as  the  underside  is  cooked,  slip  the 
spoon  beneath,  and  turn  the  froth  over;  when  done  lift 
carefully,  and  lay  it  on  the  custard.  Continue  the  process, 
heaping  the  masses  irregularly  over  the  surface,  to  form  the 
rock-work.     Set  the  dish  in  a  cold  place. 

Trifle. 

Slice  a  stale  cream  cake,  fruit  cake,  or  sponge  cake,  and 
lay  in  a  glass  dish;  then  prepare  a  strawberry  cream,  as  per 
recipe  already  given,  and  pour  it  over.  Or  you  may  whip 
the  cream  by  itself,  pour  it  over  the  slices,  and  lay  on  some 
bits  of  bright  jelly. 

Strawberry  Trifle. 

Put  into  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  a  layer  of  sliced 
sponge  cake,  moistened  with  cream;  then  cover  with  ripe 
strawberries,  sprinkled  with  sugar;  red  raspberries,  or  ripe 


374  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  in. 

peaches  peeled  and  sliced,  are  equally  good.  Kepeat  the 
layers  till  the  dish  is  two-thirds  full.  Then  prepare  a  boiled 
custard,  as  follows :  Beat  together  the  yolks  of  three  or  four 
eggs,  and  whip  in  a  third  of  a  cup  of  sugar;  stir  gradually 
into  these  a  quart  of  milk  brought  just  to  a  boil,  and  then 
heat  till  the  custard  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When 
this  is  cold  pour  it  over  the  cake,  cover  with  the  whipped 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  little  sugar,  and  orna- 
mented with  red  berries,  or  bits  of  bright  jelly,  tastefully 
arranged. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

1  pint  rich  sweet  cream. 
^  cup  sugar. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 

One  large  Graham  sponge  cake,  or  two  small  ones. 

Cut  the  cake  into  half -inch  slices,  and  line  a  quart  mould 
with  them;  have  the  bottom  lining  all  in  one  piece,  if  con- 
venient. Put  the  cream  in  the  ice-chest  till  very  cold;  then 
whip  in  a  small  pitcher,  or  beat  in  a  whip-churn  till  no  more 
froth  will  rise;  keep  the  cream  in  ice-water  while  the  whip- 
ping is  done.  When  this  is  finished  stir  in  the  sugar,  and 
the  whites  cut  to  a  stiff  froth;  then  pour  all  into  the  lined 
mould,  filling  it  nearly  full,  and  set  on  ice  till  wanted. 

Another  way  is  to  put  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  into  a 
gill  of  cold  milk,  set  it  in  boiling  water,  and  heat  (stirring) 
till  dissolved.  When  cold,  beat  it  into  the  whipped  cream 
after  the  eggs  and  sugar  are  added,  fill  the  mould,  and  set 
on  ice  as  before. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Make  like  the  preceding,  only  prepare  a  strawberry  or 
other  fruit  cream,  instead  of  the  plain. 


part  in.]  custards,  blanc-manges,  etc.  375 

Tapioca  Custard. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  tapioca,  washed  and  drained. 

J  cup  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  a  pint  of  water  several  hours,  or  over 
night;  heat  the  milk  nearly  to  boiling  in  a  farina-kettle,  and 
put  in  the  tapioca  with  the  water  in  which  it  soaked;  stir 
constantly,  till  the  mixture  is  ready  to  boil.  Then  set  it  off, 
beat  the  yolks  moderately,  whip  in  the  sugar,  and  stir  the 
hot  milk  and  tapioca  into  them,  a  little  at  a  time;  return  to 
the  kettle  and  cook  five  minutes,  or  till  the  custard  thickens, 
still  using  the  spoon.  Then  remove  from  the  fire,  beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  them  in  ;  pour  the  custard 
into  a  bowl,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Tapioca  cream  is  made 
the  same  as  the  custard,  except  that  the  beaten  whites  are 
not  stirred  into  it,  but  spread  on  top  after  the  cream  is 
cold.     Both  the  cream  and  custard  should  be  served  cold. 

Manioca  makes  a  better  cream  or  custard  than  tapioca  ; 
the  method  of  making  is  nearly  the  same  as  for  tapioca,  ex- 
cept that  the  manioca  requires  no  soaking.  Put  it  into  the 
cold  milk,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  cool  to  blood  heat;  then  stir 
in  the  yolks  and  sugar  beaten  together,  and  bring  again  to 
boiling;  cook  till  the  custard  thickens,  and  stir  in  the  beaten 
whites.     Cool  before  serving. 

Sago  Custard. 

Soak  the  sago  in  a  pint  of  water  one  hour,  and  then  make 
the  same  as  tapioca. 

Mountain  Custard. — (Junket.) 

1  quart  sweet  milk — new,  if  you  have  it. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  "  liquid  rennet. 


376  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Warm  the  milk  to  blood  heat,  then  stir  in  the  sugar  and 
rennet;  you  will  get  the  latter  at  the  drug  store,  possibly  of 
your  grocer.  After  you  have  put  in  the  rennet  pour  the 
milk  into  a  glass  dish,  and  set  where  it  will  keep  a  little 
warm.  If  at  the  end  of  an  hour  it  has  not  commenced  to 
coagulate,  stir  in  more  rennet;  it  should  be  firm,  in  one  to 
two  hours.  Set  on  ice  to  cool,  and  serve  with  cream,  or 
cream  and  sugar. 

This  is  what  the  Scotch  people  call  "curds  and  cream"; 
they  omit  the  sugar  in  the  making.  It  should  be  eaten 
within  an  hour  after  it  has  formed;  if  it  stands  too  long,  it 
will  become  wheyey. 

Cold  Feuit  Custard. 

Throw  sugar  upon  strawberries,  raspberries,  sliced  pine- 
apple, or  other  fruit;  take,  say  a  gill  of  the  syrup  which 
forms  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  to  flavor  and  sweeten  a 
quart  of  new  milk.  Then  add  to  the  latter  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream  (though  this  can  be  omitted),  and  also  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  liquid  rennet.  Stir  well  together,  and  pour  into  the 
dish  from  which  the  custard  is  to  be  served;  then  set  it  in 
a  warm  place  till  the  milk  is  coagulated,  which  should  be 
in  from  one  to  two  hours.  If  the  rennet  is  not  of  usual 
strength,  you  may  have  to  stir  in  more  at  the  end  of  the 
first  hour;  but  if  the  milk  has  begun  to  coagulate,  do  not 
disturb  it.  When  firm  set  on  ice,  and  serve  as  soon  as  cold, 
with  cream  and  sugar.  This  is  said  to  be  a  delicious  des- 
sert. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Take  milk  that  has  soured  till  thick  enough  to  form  a 
clabber,  but  not  any  older;  it  should  be  as  fresh  as  possible, 
but  fully  coagulated.  Set  it  on  the  stove  and  heat  gradu- 
ally, till  the  whey  rises  to  the  top;  then  pour  off  the  latter, 
and  put  the  curd  into  a  clean  linen  bag  to  drip.     Let  it 


PART  III.]  CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGES,  ETC.  377 

hang  five  or  six  hours,  or  over  night;  turn  it  into  a  bowl, 
chop  moderately  with  a  knife  or  wooden  spoon,  and  add 
a  little  sage  if  it  is  liked.  Then  pour  in  part  of  a  cup  of 
sweet  cream,  stir  it  lightly  through  the  curd,  and  set  in  a 
cold  place.     Serve  while  it  is  fresh. 

Irish  Moss  Blanc-Mange. 

2  quarts  sweet  milk. 

2  even  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

1  scant  cup  Irish  moss. 

Pour  the  milk  into  a  farina-kettle,  or  tin  bucket  set  in  a 
pot  of  boning  water,  and  warm  to  blood  heat;  then  pick 
over  the  moss,  wash  thoroughly,  and  stir  it  well  through 
the  milk.  Keep  the  mixture  warm,  and  let  it  stand  undis- 
turbed till  it  thickens;  then  strain  through  a  thin  cloth,  fine 
sieve,  or  strainer,  and  stir  in  the  sugar.  Pour  it  into  a 
mould  or  cups  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  on  ice,  or  in  a 
cool  place.  When  the  blanc-mange  is  quite  cold  and  firm, 
turn  it  out  on  a  glass  plate,  and  eat  with  cream.  Or  you 
may  omit  the  sugar  in  making,  and  serve  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

Manioca  Blanc-Mange. 

1  quart  sweet  milk — new  preferred. 
3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
3  "  manioca. 

Soak  the  manioca  in  the  milk  one  hour,  then  stir  in  the 
sugar,  and  heat  to  a  boil ;  stir  constantly,  and  cook  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the  mixture  thickens.  Then  remove 
from  the  fire,  and  pour  into  a  mould  dipped  in  cold  water. 
Serve  with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  sauce. 

If  preferred,  omit  the  sugar  in  the  making,  and  add  it 
with  the  dressing. 


378  health  in  the  household.  [part  iil 

Tapioca  Blanc-Mange. 

3  cups  sweet  milk. 
3      "     cold  water. 
3  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  cup  tapioca. 

Wash  the  tapioca,  and  soak  it  several  hours  or  over  night 
in  the  cold  water;  heat  the  milk  almost  to  a  boil  in  a  farina- 
kettle,  put  in  the  tapioca  with  any  water  that  may  remain, 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Then  lift 
from  the  fire,  pour  into  a  mould  or  cups  wet  with  cold 
water,  and  set  away  till  cold.  If  put  into  cups,  fill  them 
about  half  full.  Serve  with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice; 
stewed  cherries,  damson  plums,  raspberries,  or  raspberries 
and  currants  mixed,  make  a  good  dressing;  and  a  spoonful 
of  the  latter  with  a  little  cream  added,  is  excellent. 

Tapioca  jelly  is  made  as  follows  :  Soak,  say  one  cup  of 
tapioca  in  a  quart  of  cold  water,  several  hours;  then  put  it 
into  a  farina-kettle  with  the  water  in  which  it  stood,  and 
cook  till  clear;  stir  in  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  take  the 
jelly  from  the  fire.  Pour  it  into  cups  wet  with  cold  water, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.    Serve  the  same  as  the  blanc-mange. 

Sago  Blanc-Mange. 

Make  the  same  as  the  preceding,  only  use  less  sago  than 
tapioca,  and  soak  it  a  shorter  time;  three-fourths  of  a  cup 
is  sufficient,  and  an  hour  is  long  enough  for  soaking. 

Corn-Starch  Blanc-Mange. 

1  pint  sweet  milk. 

1     "    cold  water. 

•J  cup  sugar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 

Pour  the  milk  and  water  together  (some  use  all  milk), 


PART  III.]  CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGES,  ETC.  379 

and  heat  just  to  a  boil;  then  wet  the  corn-starch  with  a  lit- 
tle cold  water,  and  stir  it  in;  add  also  the  sugar,  and  cook 
seven  to  ten  minutes.  Then  take  from  the  fire,  and  pour 
into  a  mould  or  cups  wet  with  cold  water;  if  into  cups,  fill 
them  about  half  full.  When  cold,  carefully  turn  the  blanc- 
mange out  on  a  glass  dish  or  plate,  and  serve  with  cream, 
fruit,  or  fruit  juice;  whipped  cream  flavored  with  fruit,  is  a 
fine  dressing. 

These  blanc-manges  may  be  prettily  ornamented  with 
strips  of  jelly,  laid  on  in  a  pattern;  or  with  raspberries  or 
strawberries,  arranged  in  the  form  of  a  cross,  or  other 
figure.  Thirty-two  berries  (red  or  black  raspberries)  ar- 
ranged in  a  double  row,  make  a  cross  of  good  proportions. 
The  safest  way  is  first  to  place  them  on  a  clean  white  plat- 
ter, and  see  that  the  proportions  are  correct;  for  after  the 
fruit  is  laid  on  the  blanc-mange,  you  can  not  move  it  with- 
out leaving  a  stain. 

Instead  of  using  a  pint  of  water  in  the  making,  you  may, 
if  you  choose,  take  half  a  cup  of  strawberry  or  currant 
juice,  expressed  from  the  fruit,  and  only  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  water.  Mix  the  milk  and  water  together,  add  the  sugar, 
and  star  in  the  corn-starch;  let  this  cook  a  little  before 
adding  the  juice,  and  then  proceed  as  before. 

Farina  Blanc-Mange. 
1  pint  sweet  milk. 

1  "     cold  water. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
4  "  farina. 

Mix  the  milk  and  water,  and  heat  to  boiling;  stir  in  the 
farina  and  sugar,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  using  the  spoon 
constantly;  make  in  a  farina-kettle.  Then  remove  from  the 
fire,  and  pour  into  a  dish  or  mould  wet  with  cold  water;  or 
if  preferred,  use  wet  cups,  filling  them  half  or  two-thirds 
full.     Serve  with  stewed  or  canned  fruits,  or  their  juices; 


380  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

cherries  and  blackberries  are  excellent;  so  are  raspberries 
and  currants  mixed.  Or  you  may  use  as  a  dressing, 
whipped  cream,  fruit  sauce,  or  cold  cream. 

Strawberry  Blanc-Mange. 

1  quart  fruit  juice. 

i  cup  sugar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch. 
First  prepare  the  juice  by  stewing  the  fruit,  allowing  one 
pint  of  water  to  five  pints  of  capped  strawberries;  stew  till 
soft,  and  strain  through  a  cloth.  Then  put  the  juice  (one 
quart)  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  the  sugar,  and  bring  to  a 
boil;  wet  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  it  in, 
and  cook  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  or  till  the  mixture  thickens 
and  ceases  to  taste  raw;  stir  constantly.  As  soon  as  dene 
lift  from  the  fire,  and  pour  into  moulds  or  cups  wet  with 
cold  water;  the  cups  should  not  be  filled  more  than  half  or 
two-thirds  full.  "When  cold,  turn  carefully  out  on  a  wide 
plate  or  dish,  and  serve  with  cold  cream,  rich  fruit,  or  a 
soft  custard. 

If  preferred,  make  this  and  the  two  following  blanc- 
manges without  sugar,  and  eat  them  with  whipped  cream, 
sweet  fruit,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Raspberry  Blanc-Mange. 

Stew  the  raspberries,  allowing  one  quart  of  water  to  two 
quarts  of  black  caps  ;  if-  red  raspberries  are  used,  take  five 
pints  of  fruit.  Then  strain  out  the  juice,  put  a  quart  of  it 
into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
and  bring  to  a  boil ;  stir  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch wet  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  cook  and  mould,  the 
same  as  the  last.  Serve  with  fruit  sauce,  sweet  fruit,  or 
cream  and  sugar — or  any  of  the  whipped  creams. 

Currants,  cherries  (especially  the  morello),  blackberries 
and  huckleberries,  make  good  blanc-manges.     In  making 


PART  in.]  CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGES,  ETC.  381 

these  with  fruit,  some  take  equal  parts  of  fruit  juice  and 
sweet  milk  ;  the  color  is  not  so  dark,  but  the  flavor  is  less 
delicate  than  where  no  milk  is  used.  Another  way  is  to 
leave  out  the  sugar  in  the  making,  and  add  it  simply  in  the 
dressing. 

Farina  Blanc-Mange,— ( With  Fruit.) 

1  quart  fruit  juice. 

4  tablespoonfuls  farina. 

2  to  3       "  sugar,    according    to    acidity  of 

fruit. 

First  prepare  the  juice  ;  do  this  by  stewing  the  fruit  in  a 
porcelain  kettle,  allowing  water  (no  sugar)  in  the  propor- 
tions given  in  the  table,  under  Fruits  and  Fruit  Juices, 
Part  II.  Bring  the  fruit  to  a  boil,  skim,  cook  three  to  five 
minutes,  or  until  soft,  and  then  strain  through  a  cloth. 
Raspberries,  currants  (or  the  two  mixed),  strawberries,  black- 
berries, or  cherries,  may  be  used  for  this  purpose.  Put  the 
juice  back  in  the  kettle,  add  the  sugar,  and  bring  to  a  boil ; 
stir  in  the  dry  farina,  being  careful  to  have  no  lumps,  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Then  lift  off, 
pour  into  moulds  or  cups  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place.     Serve  the  same  as  the  last. 

Corn-starch  (wet  with  a  little  cold  water)  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  farina  ;  it  will  cook  in  half  the  time. 

Variegated  Blanc-Mange. 

Make  a  plain  farina  or  corn-starch  blanc-mange,  according 
to  the  recipes  heretofore  given  ;  and  at  the  same  time  make 
a  fruit  blanc-mange,  as  in  the  last.  "When  they  are  cold 
and  a  little  stiff,  pour  into  deep  moulds  or  cups  wet  with 
cold  water,  a  layer  of  the  white  ;  as  soon  as  this  is  firm 
enough  to  bear  the  weight  of  the  second  layer  without  mix- 
ing, pour  in  an  equal  quantity  of  the  dark.  Let  this  stiffen 
a  little,  and  put  in  another  of  the  white  ;  and  so  on,  alter- 


382  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  ILL 

nately,  till  the  mould  is  filled.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place 
several  hours,  or  till  well  formed  ;  then  turn  out  on  a  glass 
or  china  plate,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream,  fruit  sauce, 
or  cream  and  sugar.  If  the  blanc-mange  adheres  to  the 
mould,  loosen  it  carefully  around  the  edges  with  the  fingers. 

MOULDED  FARINACEA. 

The  following  dishes  are  all  very  plain,  but  very  conven- 
ient for  warm  weather  ;  and  they  are  far  more  wholesome 
than  rich  puddings,  cakes,  etc.  Nicely  moulded  in  cups, 
scalloped  dishes,  or  plain  oval  ones,  and  carefully  turned 
out  on  a  pretty  plate  of  glass  or  china,  they  are  handsome 
as  well  as  palatable.  And  if  you  care  to  take  the  trouble, 
these  and  the  blanc-manges  are  susceptible  of  further  orna- 
mentation, by  a  tasteful  arrangement  of  ripe  fruits  (as 
strawberries,  raspberries,  or  currants),  or  bits  of  bright 
jelly,  laid  on  in  a  pattern.  The  dark  fruit  blanc-manges 
look  well  with  bunches  of  "frosted"  currants  laid  over 
them  ;  but  they  must  be  served  soon  after,  or  the  "  frost " 
will  melt  by  coming  in  contact  with  the  moist  surface. 

Moulded  Farina.  =ft= 

1  quart  (nearly)  boiling  water. 

\  cup  sweet  cream. 

\  "  farina. 
Stir  the  farina  into  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  fifteen 
minutes  ;  using  the  spoon  almost  constantly.  Then  add  the 
cream,  and  cook  two  minutes  longer,  stirring  meanwhile. 
Pour  into  cups  wet  with  cold  water,  filling  them  half  or  two- 
thirds  full,  and  set  them  in  a  cold  place  several  hours,  or  till 
the  next  day.  Before  serving,  invert  the  cones  on  a  broad 
glass  dish,  taking  care  not  to  break  them. 

If  you  choose,  you  can  ornament  these  with  strawberries 
or  red  raspberries,  by  making  a  slight  cavity  on  top  with 


PART  III.]  MOULDED    FABINACEA.  383 

the  point  of  a  spoon,  and  inserting  the  berries  ;  they  can 
be  arranged  (five  small  ones)  in  the  form  of  a  cross.  Or 
bits  of  cranberry  or  currant  jelly,  cut  in  strips  or  dice,  may 
be  laid  on  in  a  neat  pattern.  If  berries  are  used,  have  also 
a  separate  dish  of  the  fruit,  and  serve  as  follows  :  Place  in 
a  wide  saucer  the  cone  of  moulded  farina,  with  a  spoonful 
or  two  of  berries  about  its  base  ;  when  all  are  helped,  pass 
the  sugar,  and  then  the  cream. 

Fruit,  or  fruit  juice,  makes  a  plain  but  good  dressing  for 
moulded  farina. 

Moulded    Corn-Starch. 

Make  like  the  preceding,  with  or  without  the  addition  of 
sagar,  and  cook  about  half  as  long  ;  boil  five  minutes  before 
adding  the  cream,  and  two  minutes  afterward.  Mould  and 
serve  the  same  as  the  last ;  or  eat  with  mock  cream,  or  a 
soft  custard. 

Moulded  Graham.  =f£ 

Make  a  mush  by  stirring  Grahani  flour  slowly  into  boil- 
ing water ;  it  must  not  be  too  thick  ;  cook  ten  minutes, 
using  the  mush-stick  as  little  as  possible.  Then  stir  in  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  milk  or  cream,  and  also  a  cup  of  fresh 
dates  ;  cook  two  minutes  longer,  taking  care  not  to  scorch 
in  the  bottom.  Pour  into  a  mould  or  cups  wet  with  cold 
water,  and  set  it  away  till  cold.  Serve  with  cream,  fruit,  or 
fruit  sauce. 

The  milk  (or  cream)  may  be  omitted  in  the  making,  if 
desired  ;  in  warm  weather  there  would  be  less  danger  of 
souring. 

Moulded   Wheat.  4^ 

Take  pearl  or  cracked  wheat,  and  steam  it  four  hours  ; 
then  mould  the  same  as  the  last.  Serve  with  cream  or 
fruit. 


384  health  in  the  household.  [paet  ie:. 

Moulded   Rice.  41= 

3  cups  cold  water. 

\  cup  sweet  milk  or  cream. 

1     "    rice,  picked  over  and  washed. 

Start  the  rice  in  the  cold  water,  and  cook  forty  to  fifty 
minutes,  or  until  tender  ;  stir  once  or  twice  the  first  five 
minutes,  lest  it  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  Or  you 
may  cook  on  top  of  the  stove  in  a  covered  tin  basin  or 
kettle,  shaking  it  from  time  to  time  ;  this  is  better  than 
stirring,  which  breaks  the  grains,  and  makes  the  rice  sticky. 
When  about  done  heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  and  stir 
it  in  gently,  breaking  the  grains  as  little  as  possible.  Cook 
a  few  minutes  longer,  and  then  put  the  rice  into  moulds  or 
cups,  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  Serve  the  next  day — or  it 
may  be  prepared  in  the  morning  for  supper — with  a  dress- 
ing of  rich  fruit  (as  stewed  or  canned  plums),  fruit  sauce, 
or  cream  and  sugar.  Fresh  dates,  stirred  in  five  minutes 
before  the  rice  is  taken  from  the  fire,  make  a  good  addition; 
and  they  look  well  in  the  moulded  mass. 

Rice  and  Raisins.  4£ 

3  cups  boiling  water. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1     "     rice,  picked  over  carefully  and  washed. 

i     "    raisins,  picked  from  the  stems. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  steam  an  hour  in  a  closed 
steamer  ;  or  you  may  cook  in  a  farina-kettle,  or  in  a  tin 
bucket  set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  When  done,  pour  the 
rice  and  raisins  into  a  dish  or  mould  wet  with  cold  water  ; 
or  you  may  put  it  into  cups,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  When 
cold  turn  out  on  a  plate,  and  serve  with  cream  or  fruit,  or 
with  mixed  sauce. 


part  ih.j  moulded  farinacea.  385 

Rice  Snow-Balls. 

2  quarts  boiling  water. 

1  pint  sweet  milk. 

J  cup      "      cream. 

2  cups  rice,  picked  over  carefully  and  washed. 
2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  corn-starch. 

Boil  the  rice  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  or  until  perfectly  soft; 
stir  as  little  as  possible,  so  as  not  to  break  the  grains.  If 
you  have  a  closed  steamer,  or  farina-kettle,  you  can  cook 
without  disturbing  it.  A  good  way  is  to  cook  in  a  tin  basin 
or  granitized  iron  pan,  covered,  and  set  on  top  of  the  stove; 
shake  it  from  time  to  time,  instead  of  stirring.  When  the 
rice  is  tender  mix  in  the  cream,  and  heat  five  minutes 
longer.  Then  pour  into  small  cups  wet  with  cold  water, 
and  set  away  to  mould  ;  when  ready  turn  out  the  "  snow- 
balls," and  place  them  in  a  glass  dish.  Make  a  boiled  cus- 
tard of  the  eggs,  milk,  corn-starch  and  sugar,  and  as  soon 
as  cold  pour  it  over  the  moulded  rice  ;  do  this  half  an  hour 
before  serving. 

If  preferred,  omit  the  boiled  custard  and  serve  with  cream 
and  sugar,  or  with  stewed  or  canned  fruit. 

Rice  Snow. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

5  tablespoonfuls  rice-flour — or  corn-starch. 

\  cup  sugar. 

4  eggs — whites  of. 
Heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  in  a  farina-kettle  ;  mix  in  the 
rice-flour  (or  com-starch)  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
cook  till  it  thickens  ;  stir  all  the  while.  Then  add  the  sugar, 
heat  and  stir  three  minutes,  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
When  cold  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  whip  into 


386  HEALTH    IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

them  the  thickened  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  until  all  is  well 
mixed.  Pour  this  into  small  cups,  or  a  mould,  wet  in  cold 
water ;  the  next  day  turn  out  the  rice  "  snow  "  on  a  plate, 
and  serve  with  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice. 

OTHER      DISHES. 

Rice  Apples. 

1  quart  sweet  milk — half  water,  if  preferred. 

1  cup  rice,  picked  over  carefully  and  washed. 
\    "    currants — or  seedless  raisins. 

8  or  9  apples,  rather  tart. 

2  eggs — whites  of. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Put  the  milk  and  rice  into  a  farina-kettle  (or  tin  bucket 
set  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water),  and  cook  forty  minutes  or 
until  tender.  In  the  mean  time  pare  and  core  the  apples, 
fill  their  centers  with  the  currants  or  raisins,  and  place 
them  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding-dish.  Then  squeeze  the 
lemon  juice  into  the  sweet  fruit,  put  a  trifle  of  water  in  the 
dish,  and  set  it  in  the  oven,  closely  covered ;  bake  till  the 
apples  are  tender,  but  not  broken.  When  the  rice  is  ready 
put  it  neatly  around  the  apples,  leaving  their  tops  uncover- 
ed ;  return  to  the  oven,  cover  the  pan  to  keep  in  the  steam, 
and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Then  uncover,  spread  with  the  whites  and  sugar  beaten 
together,  and  brown  slightly.  Serve  in  the  bake-dish  with 
cream  and  sugar,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice  ;  stewed  or  canned 
raspberries,  blackberries,  or  cherries,  make  a  good  dressing. 

Ba.ked  Apples.  =t=|= 

Pare  and  core  apples  that  are  not  very  tart,  but  of  fine 
rich  flavor ;  they  should  be  sweet  enough  not   to  fall  to 


PART  III.]  OTHER   DISHES.  387 

pieces  when  cooked.  Wash  quickly,  to  remove  knife-rust, 
put  into  earthen  pie-pans  placing  them  not  too  closely  to- 
gether, and  add  a  little  cold  water.  Set  in  an  even  oven, 
and  bake  without  scorching  till  thoroughly  tender  ;  they 
may  require  turning,  once  or  twice  ;  though  they  look  better 
not  to  be  disturbed  till  done.  If  they  brown  too  fast  on 
top,  cover  with  an  old  plate,  or  a  pie-pan  of  granitized  iron  ; 
and  if  necessary,  add  a  trifle  of  hot  water  once  or  twice, 
while  they  are  baking  ;  it  may  be  well  to  pour  in  a  little, 
boiling  hot,  just  before  you  take  them  from  the  oven  ;  there 
should  be  considerable  juice  when  the  apples  are  done.  Set 
them  away  in  the  pans  till  nearly  cold,  then  lift  carefully 
into  a  glass  dish,  and  pour  the  juice  over.  This  dessert, 
properly  prepared,  is  both  attractive  and  palatable  ;  the 
apples,  smooth  and  unbroken,  should  be  of  a  light  buff 
color,  with  the  thick  amber  juice  at  the  base.  They  may  be 
served  with  cream,  though  they  are  good  enough  without. 

If  fair  and  rosy,  and  pretty  sweet,  they  are  very  good 
baked  without  paring  ;  simply  wash  them,  remove  the  blos- 
som ends  with  a  pen-knife,  leave  in  the  stems,  and  bake  as 
before  ;  or  you  may  place  two  or  more  layers  in  a  deep 
dish,  add  a  cupful  of  water,  and  bake  uncovered  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  ;  they  will  need  to  be  turned  as  they  cook,  and 
the  bottom  ones  brought  to  the  top.  When  done  put  the 
apples  in  a  dish,  and  drain  the  juice  over  them. 

Stewed  Apples.  i|= 

Pare  and  core  good  rich  apples,  not  too  ripe,  and  sweet 
enough  not  to  break  in  stewing  ;  wash  quickly,  and  lay 
whole  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  adding  enough  cold  water  to 
about  one-third  cover  them  ;  then  place  over  a  slow  fire. 
Cover  with  a  plate,  if  you  have  not  a  granitized  iron  lid  ; 
tin  ones,  unless  bright  and  new,  darken  the  fruit  by  the 
steam  that  collects  on  them.  Stew  gently,  or  rather  sim- 
mer, one  hour,  or  till  the  apples  are  not  only  tender,  but 
26 


388  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

rich  in  color  and  flavor  ;  there  should  be  a  good  cupful  of 
juice  in  the  bottom,  when  done.  Set  the  kettle  away  with 
the  fruit  in  it,  till  cold  or  nearly  so  ;  then  put  the  apples  in 
a  glass  dish,  pour  the  juice  over  them,  and  when  ready, 
serve,  with  or  without  cream. 

Baked  Peaks. 

The  fruit  if  unpeeled,  should  be  of  fair  quality,  and 
barely  ripe.  Wash  the  pears,  trim  off  any  defects,  and 
pack  closely  into  a  stone  jar  or  crock  till  full ;  sprinkle  the 
layers  lightly  with  sugar,  and  pour  in  enough  water  to 
about  cover  the  fruit ;  then  bake  three  hours  in  a  very 
moderate  oven,  keeping  the  jar  closely  covered.  When 
done  and  nearly  cold,  put  the  pears  into  a  glass  dish,  pour 
the  juice  over  them,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  with  or 
without  a  dressing  of  cream. 

If  the  pears  are  large  and  not  nearly  ripe,  or  the  skins 
tough,  peel  them,  remove  the  blossom  ends,  and  bake  as 
before. 

Stewed  Pears.  =f£ 

If  wanted  choice,  select  good  fruit  with  a  fine  sub-acid 
flavor;  the  Bartlett,  Seckel  and  White  Doyenne,  are  choice 
varieties.  The  pears  must  not  be  too  ripe ;  they  should  be 
"turning,"  but  not  mellow.  Some  varieties  have  a  very 
tough  skin,  and  need  peeling;  the  ones  named,  if  smooth 
and  fair,  do  not  require  it.  Simply  wash  them,,  remove  the 
blossom  ends  with  a  pen-knife,  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
and  pour  in  water  till  the  fruit  is  about  one-third  covered  ; 
if  not  rich  in  flavor,  add  a  little  sugar.  Then  cover  with  a 
clean  lid  or  plate,  bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  simmer  nearly 
or  quite  an  hour.  As  soon  as  done,  set  the  kettle  off,  and 
leave  the  pears  in  it  to  cool;  there  should  be  plenty  of  juice 
in  the  bottom.  When  cold  lift  out  the  fruit,  put  it  into  a 
glass  dish,  and  pour  the  juice  over. 


part  ih.j  other  dishes.  389 

Apple  Cream. 
Select  fine  apples,  fair  and  smooth,  and  rather  tart;  wash 
well,  trim  out  the  blossom  ends,  and  either  bake  or  stew  in 
a  little  water,  till  quite  soft.  Remove  the  skins,  cores  and 
seeds,  mash  till  smooth  or  rub  through  a  hair  sieve,  and 
sweeten  while  hot;  when  cold,  stir  into  a  pint  of  the  sauce 
half  a  cup  of  good  cream;  beat  till  light,  and  serve. 

Apple  Ice. 

Take  apples  of  a  good  rich  flavor  (as  the  Spitzenberg,  or 
bellflower),  grate  them  fine,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  freeze. 
The  ice  is  said  to  be  delicious. 

Pears,  peaches,  or  quinces,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way;  or  you  may  mix  apple  and  quince  together,  and  then 
sweeten  and  freeze.  These  frozen  mixtures  can  not  be  rec- 
ommended as  particularly  good  for  weak  stomachs. 

Apple  Snow. 
6  tart  apples — pippins  or  bellflowers. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 
f  cup  white  sugar. 

3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  of  the  yolks,  milk,  and  half  the 
sugar,  and  cook  till  it  thickens;  when  cold,  pour  into  a  glass 
dish.  Beat  the  whites  and  the  rest  of  the  sugar  to  a  stiff 
froth;  then  peel  the  apples,  grate  fine,  and  stir  them  imme- 
diately into  it,  to  prevent  their  changing  color;  beat  till  very 
light,  and  heap  the  "  snow "  upon  the  custard.  Serve  as 
soon  as  possible,  after  making. 

Apple  Float. 
1  pint  tart  apple  sauce. 
1      "     sweet  milk. 
4-  cup  white  sugar. 
3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separate, 


390  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  in. 

Prepare  the  sauce  by  stewing  the  apples  in  very  little 
water;  they  should  be  rich  in  flavor,  fine  in  texture,  and 
rather  tart;  a  few  slices  of  quince  stewed  with  them  is  an 
improvement,  for  those  who  like  the  flavor  of  that  fruit. 
Stew  quickly,  in  a  porcelain  kettle.  In  the  mean  time,  make 
a  soft  custard  by  heating  the  milk  to  a  boil,  adding  the 
yolks  and  half  the  sugar  beaten  together,  and  cooking  till 
it  begins  to  thicken;  then  set  it  off  to  cool.  Mash  the  apple 
sauce  till  fine  and  smooth;  you  may  rub  it  through  a  hair 
sieve,  if  you  have  one.  When  perfectly  cold,  whip  the 
whites  and  the  rest  of  the  sugar  into  it,  and  beat  till  the 
mixture  will  stand  alone;  then  pour  the  cold  custard  into  a 
glass  dish,  and  pile  the  float  on  top.  Or  if  you  prefer, 
omit  the  custard,  heap  the  whipped  sauce  in  the  dish,  and 
pour  the  cold  cream  around  it.     Serve  immediately. 

Apple  Puffs. 

Stew  the  apples  as  in  the  last  recipe,  and  sweeten  to  taste 
while  hot;  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  if  desired.  When  cold, 
whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  into  a  pint  of  the  sauce,  and 
bake  in  open  crusts;  make  the  latter  of  ordinary  cream 
paste,  and  roll  it  rather  thin.  You  may  ornament  the  top 
with  strips  of  thin  paste  laid  on  in  a  pattern;  finish  the  edge 
neatly,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  the  pastry  is  done. 

JELLIES,  JAMS  AND  SYKUPS. 

Jellies,  jams  and  syrups,  as  ordinarily  made,  are  in  no 
sense  hygienic,  owing  to  the  amount  of  sugar  they  contain. 
There  is  a  process  of  converting  fruit  juices  into  jellies  by 
evaporation,  which,  if  successfully  applied,  would  make 
them  both  wholesome  and  delicious.  But  as  yet,  the  art  is 
so  little  understood,  that  generally  speaking  it  is  of  no  prac- 
tical value.  No  doubt  the  time  will  come,  when  the  juices 
of  fruits  can  be  preserved  in  this  form  without  impairing 


PAET  III.]  JELLIES,  JAMS    AND    SYRUPS.  391 

or  destroying  their  exquisite  delicacy  of  flavor,  with,  that 
intense,  sugary  taste  which  comes  from  adding  pound  for 
pound. 

For  the  present,  we  must  be  content  to  use  the  jellies,  if 
at  all,  as  we  do  sugar;  simply  for  sweetening  (or  flavoring), 
as  in  puddings,  creams,  etc. ;  or  for  decorating  those  dishes 
(custards,  cakes,  etc.)  that  are  intended  to  be  ornamental, 
rather  than  useful  or  wholesome. 

Making  Fruit  Jellies. 

The  general  directions  for  making  ordinary  fruit  jellies, 
are  as  follows:  Cook  the  fruit  slowly  till  soft,  strain  out  the 
juice,  and  boil  the  latter  over  a  very  moderate  fire,  twenty 
minutes;  then  add  dry  sugar,  allowing  a  pound  to  every 
pint  of  juice;  heat  again,  stirring  constantly  till  the  sugar 
is  all  melted;  then  lift  from  the  fire,  and  pour  into  glasses. 

The  three  following  paragraphs,  more  in  detail,  are  from 
the  Buckeye  Cookery : 

"Always  make  jellies  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  if  possible; 
but  brass  may  be  used  if  scoured  very  bright,  and  the  fruit 
removed  immediately  on  taking  from  the  fire.  Use  the  best 
refined  or  granulated  sugar,  and  do  not  have  the  fruit, 
especially  currants  and  grapes,  overripe. 

"  To  extract  the  juice,  place  the  fruit  in  the  kettle  with 
just  enough  water  to  keep  it  from  burning;  stir  often,  and 
let  it  remain  on  the  fire  until  thoroughly  scalded.  Or  a  bet- 
ter but  rather  slower  method,  is  to  place  it  in  a  stone  jar 
set  within  a  kettle  of  tepid  water,  boil  until  the  fruit  is  well 
softened,  stirring  frequently,  and  then  strain  a  small  quan- 
tity at  a  time  through  a  strong  coarse  flannel  or  cotton  bag, 
wrung  out  of  hot  water  ;  after  which  let  it  drain,  and 
squeeze  with  the  hands  as  it  cools,  emptying  the  bag  and 
rinsing  it  off,  each  time  it  is  used.  The  larger  fruits,  such 
as  apples  and  quinces,  should  be  cut  in  pieces,  the  cores  re- 
moved if  at  all  defective,  and  water  added  to  just  cover 


392  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

them;  then  boil  gently  till  tender,  turn  into  a  bag  and  place 
to  drain  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  over  night.  Make  no 
more  than  two  or  three  pints  of  jelly  at  a  time,  as  large 
quantities  require  longer  boiling.  As  a  general  rule,  allow 
equal  measures  of  juice  and  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  rapidly, 
ten  minutes  from  the  first  moment  it  bubbles;  skim,  add 
the  sugar,  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer.  Or,  spread  the 
sugar  in  a  large  dripping-pan  set  in  the  oven,  and  stir 
often  to  prevent  burning;  boil  the  juice  just  twenty  min- 
utes, add  the  hot  sugar,  boil  up  once,  and  pour  into  jelly- 
glasses. 

"  To  test  the  jelly,  drop  a  little  in  a  glass  of  very  cold 
water,  and  if  it  immediately  falls  to  the  bottom  it  is  done  ; 
or  drop  into  a  saucer  and  set  on  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place;  if  it 
does  not  spread,  but  remains  rounded,  it  is  finished.  Some 
strain  through  the  bag  into  the  glasses,  but  this  involves 
waste  ;  and  if  the  skimming  is  carefully  done,  it  is  not  nec- 
essary. If  the  jelly  is  not  very  firm,  let  it  stand  in  the  sun, 
covered  with  bits  of  window  glass,  or  pieces  of  mosquito 
netting,  for  a  few  days.  Never  attempt  to  make  jellies  in 
damp  or  cloudy  weather,  if  firmness  and  clearness  are  de- 
sired. Currants  and  berries  should  be  made  up  as  soon  as 
picked  ;  never  let  them  stand  over  night.  When  ready  to 
put  away,  cover  with  pieces  of  tissue  or  writing  paper  cut 
to  fit,  and  pressed  closely  upon  the  jelly  ;  then  put  on  the 
lid,  or  cover  with  thick  paper,  brushed  over  on  the  inside 
with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  turned  down  on  the  outside  of 
the  glass." 

Equally  to  the  point  are  the  suggestions  given  below,  from 
Marion  Harland  : 

Currant,  Blackberry,  Strawberry,  etc. 

"  Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar,  set  this  in  a  kettle  of 
tepid  water,  and  put  it  upon  the  fire.  Let  it  boil,  closely 
covered,  until  the  fruit  is  broken  to  pieces  ;  strain,  pressing 


PART  III.]  JELLIES,  JAAIS    AND    SYRUPS.  393 

the  bag  (a  stout  coarse  one)  hard,  putting  in  but  a  few 
handfuls  at  a  time,  and  between  each  squeezing  turning  it 
inside  out  to  scald  off  the  pulp  and  skins.  To  each  pint  of 
jiiice  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Set  the  juice  on  alone  to 
boil,  and  while  it  is  warming  divide  the  sugar  into  several 
different  portions,  and  put  into  shallow  pie-dishes  or  pans 
that  will  lit  in  your  ovens;  heat  in  these,  opening  the  ovens 
now  and  then  to  stir  it  and  prevent  burning.  Boil  the  juice 
just  twenty  minutes  from  the  moment  it  begins  fairly  to  bub- 
ble. By  this  time  the  sugar  should  be  so  hot  you  can  not 
bear  your  hand  in  it.  Should  it  melt  around  the  edges,  do 
not  be  alarmed.  The  burned  parts  will  only  form  into  lumps 
in  the  syrup,  and  can  easily  be  taken  out.  Throw  the  sugar 
into  the  boiling  juice,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  while.  It  will 
1  hiss '  as  it  falls  in,  and  melt  very  quickly.  "Withdraw  your 
spoon  when  you  are  sure  it  is  dissolved.  Let  the  jelly  just 
come  to  a  boil  to  make  all  certain,  and  take  the  kettle  in- 
stantly from  the  fire.  Roll  your  glasses  or  cups  in  hot 
water,  and  fill  with  the  scalding  liquid.  If  these  directions 
be  strictly  followed,  and  the  fruit  is  at  the  proper  state  of 
ripeness,  there  need  be  no  dread  of  failure.  I  have  often 
had  the  jelly  '  form '  before  I  filled  the  last  glass." 

"  If  jellies  are  not  so  firm  after  six  or  eight  hours  as  you 
would  have  them,  set  them  in  the  sun,  with  bits  of  window 
glass  over  them  to  keep  out  the  dust  and  insects.  Remove 
these  at  night,  and  wipe  off  the  moisture  collected  on  the 
under  side.  Repeat  this  every  day  until  the  jelly  shrinks 
into  firmness,  filling  up  one  cup  from  another  as  need  re- 
quires. This  method  is  far  preferable  to  boiling  down, 
which  both  injures  the  flavor  and  darkens  the  jelly." 

Raspberry  and  Currant  Jelly. 

"  To  two  parts  red  raspberrries,  or  '  black  caps,'  put  one 
of  red  currants,  and  proceed  as  with  other  berry  jellies. 


894  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

"  The  flavor  is  exquisite.  This  jelly  is  especially  nice  for 
cake." 

Quince   Jelly. 

"Pare  and  slice  the  quinces,  and  add  for  every  five 
pounds  of  fruit  a  cup  of  water.  Put  peelings,  cores,  and 
all  into  a  stone  jar;  set  this  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and 
when  the  fruit  is  soft  and  broken,  proceed  as  with  other 
jellies." 

Crab- Apple  Jelly. 

"  Cut  Siberian  crab-apples  to  pieces,  but  do  not  pare,  or 
remove  the  seeds.  The  latter  impart  a  peculiarly  pleasant 
flavor  to  the  fruit.  Put  into  a  stone  jar,  set  in  a  pot  of  hot 
water,  and  let  it  boil  eight  or  nine  hours.  Leave  in  the  jar 
all  night/ covered  closely.  Next  morning  squeeze  out  the 
juice,  allow  pound  for  pint,  and  manage  as  you  do  currant 
jelly. 

"  Should  the  apples  be  very  dry,  add  a  cup  of  water  for 
every  six  pounds  of  fruit." 

Apple  Jelly. 

Make  the  same  as  crab-apple. — A  good  jelly  is  said  to  be 
made  without  sugar,  from  sweet  apples;  express  the  juice  as 
for  cider,  and  boil  till  the  liquid  is  reduced  one-eighth,  or  a 
pint  to  the  gallon.     Mould  the  same  as  other  jellies. 

Cranberry  Jelly. 
Make  like  currant  or  any  "berry  "  jelly,  skimming  if  there 
is  need  when  it  comes  to  a  boil. 

Other  Fruit  Jellies.  ^ 

Nearly  all  fruits  can  be  made  into  jellies,  but  some  are 
better  for  this  purpose  than  others  ;  usually  those  fruits  are 
selected  that  are  choicest  in  flavor,  and  that  make  the  hand- 
somest jellies.  Of  these,  the  ones  already  given  are  the  best, 
or  among  the  best. 


PART  III.]  JELLIES,  JAMS    AND    SYRUPS.  395 

For  all  small  fruits,  as  berries  and  currants,  a  lady  who 
lias  had  much  experience  in  jelly-making,  recommends  the 
following  method:  Crash  the  fruit,  put  it  into  a  stone  jar, 
set  this  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  and  heat  over  a  slow 
tire  till  you  can  express  the  juice;  after  squeezing  out  the 
latter,  add  by  measure  an  equal  quantity  of  water,  and  boil 
twenty  minutes.  Then  put  in  a  pound  of  sugar  (dried  in 
the  oven)  for  every  pint  of  the  mixed  fluid,  heat  till  the 
sugar  is  melted,  and  put  into  glasses.  Jelly  made  in  this 
way  is  said  to  keep  perfectly,  and  to  be  very  delicate  in 
flavor. 

Jams. 

Jams  are  too  sweet  and  too  concentrated,  to  be  used  in 
any  other  way  than  simply  as  a  condiment ;  and  then,  the 
less  the  better.  They  give  a  rich  flavoring  to  puddings  and 
cakes,  which  like  themselves,  are,  to  say  the  most,  very  dis- 
tantly related  to  hygiene.  The  process  of  making  them  here 
given,  and  taken  from  the  Buckeye  Cookery,  is  briefly  stated, 
and  accurate: 

"In  making  jams,  the  fruit  should  be  carefully  cleaned 
and  thoroughly  bruised,  as  mashing  it  before  cooking  pre- 
vents it  from  becoming  hard.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes before  adding  the  sugar,  as  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  is 
better  preserved  in  this  way;  allow  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and  then  boil  half  an 
hour  longer.  Jams  require  almost  constant  stirring,  and 
every  housekeeper  should  be  provided  with  a  small  paddle 
with  its  handle  at  right  angles  to  the  blade  (similar  to  an 
apple-butter  "  stirrer,"  only  smaller),  to  be  used  in  making 
jams  and  marmalades. 

"To  tell  when  any  jam  or  marmalade  is  sufficiently 
cooked,  take  out  some  o*  it  on  a  plate  and  let  it  cool.  If 
no  juice  or  moisture  gathers  about  it,  and  it  looks  dry  and 
glistening,  it  is  done  thoroughly.     Put  up  in  glass  or  "small 


396  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

stone  jars,  and  seal  or  secure  like  jellies.     Keep  jellies  and 
jams  in  a  cool,  dry  and  dark  place." 

Currant  Jam. 

"Pick  from  the  stems  and  wash  thoroughly  with  the 
hands  ;  put  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  boil  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  often,  and  removing  any  scum  that 
rises.  Then  add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  fruit ;  or  by  measure, 
one  coffee-cup  of  sugar  to  one  pint  mashed  fruit ;  boil 
thirty  minutes  longer,  stirring  almost  constantly.  When 
done,  pour  in  small  jars  or  glasses,  and  either  seal  or  secure 
like  jelly,  by  first  pressing  down,  close  on  the  fruit,  paper 
cut  to  fit  the  glasses,  and  then  covering  with  larger  papers, 
brushed  on  the  inside  with  white  of  egg,  and  the  edges 
turned  down  over  the  outside  of  the  glass." 

Gooseberry  Jam. 

"  Stew  the  berries  in  a  little  water,  press  through  a  coarse 
sieve,  and  return  to  the  kettle,  adding  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  the  pulped  gooseberry. 
Boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour^  stirring  constantly  ;  pour  in 
jars  or  bowls,  and  cover,  as  directed  for  currant  jam." 

Grape  or  Plum  Jam. 

"  Stew  in  a  little  water,  and  press  the  fruit  through  a 
colander  or  coarse  sieve,  adding  a  little  more  water  to  the 
plums  to  get  all  the  pulp  through  ;  then  add  the  sugar,  and 
finish  as  in  other  jams." 

Raspberry  Jam. 

"Make  by  itself,  or  better,  combined  with  currants,  in 
the  proportion  of  one-third  currants  to  two-thirds  raspber- 
ries ;  mash  the  fruit  well,  and  proceed  as  in  currant  jam." 


part  iii.]  jellies,  jams  and  syrups.  397 

Strawberry  and  Blackberry  Jams. 
Mash  the  fruit,  and  make  the  same  as  currant  jam. 

Fruit  Syrups. 
Fruit  syrups  may  often  be  used  instead  of  sugar,  in  the 
making  of  puddings,  creams,  cakes,  etc.;  in  some  of  these 
dishes  they  are  better  than  sugar  ;  they  not  only  sweeten, 
they  flavor,  as  well.  You  may  seal  in  small  jars  or  bottles 
when  you  make  them,  and  open  as  they  are  wanted. 

Lemon  Syrup. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  sound  lemons  into  a  porcelain  ket- 
tle, and  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice. 
Bring  the  syrup  to  a  boil  over  a  moderate  fire,  simmer  ten 
minutes,  and  then  j>ut  into  small  cans  or  bottles,  and  seal. 

The  juice  of  oranges,  with  a  little  lemon  juice  added,  may 
be  made  into  syrup  in  the  same  way,  except  that  less  sugar 
is  required  ;  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice  is  enough. 

Strawberry  Syrup. 

Heat  till  the  berries  are  soft,  the  same  as  for  jelly  ;  then 
strain  out  the  juice  through,  a  clean  cloth.  Put  this  into  a 
porcelain  kettle,  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice, 
and  bring  to  a  boil ;  skim  if  necessary,  boil  moderately  ten 
minutes,  and  seal  in  small  cans  or  bottles. 

Other  berries  are  made  into  syrup  in  the  same  way  ;  so 
are  currants,  seeded  cherries,  and  other  small  fruits. 

Quince  and  Other  Syrups. 
Make  the  same  as  jelly,  only  boil  the  syrup  ten  minutes 
instead  of  twenty  ;   then   seal.     Quinces,  apples,  peaches, 
etc.,  may  be  used. 

Mixed  Syrups. 
Syrups  of  excellent  flavor  are  made  by  mixing  two  differ- 
ent fruits  together,  as  raspberries  (red  or  black)  and  cur- 


398  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

rants,  or  raspberries  and  cherries.  Or  lemon  juice  may  be 
added  to  apple  or  other  fruit  juice.  Pine-apple  is  a  fine 
addition  to  many  of  the  fruits ;  but  it  is  rather  expensive 
for  general  use. 

RIPE  FRUITS  FOR  DESSERTS. 

There  is  nothing  in  all  the  food  products  that  can  begin 
to  compare,  either  in  beauty  of  form  or  color,  or  in  rich- 
ness of  flavor,  with  those  rare  gifts  of  the  earth  which  we 
call,  "  Fruits."  So  exquisite  are  they  in  rounded  outlines 
and  tinted  hues,  to  say  nothing  of  their  fineness  of  texture, 
that  no  artist  can  truly  represent  them  ;  they  are  indeed 
"  painted  by  the  sun."  And  the  delicate  aroma  of  some  of 
them,  is  scarcely  more  than  equaled  by  the  perfume  of  the 
choicest  flowers.  They  appeal  to  our  aesthetic  nature,  and 
at  the  same  time  gratify  the  appetite,  with  a  fine  delicacy  of 
flavor  that  does  not  belong  to  the  strictly  vegetable  prod- 
ucts. When  perfect  in  growth  and  fully  ripe,  they  are 
indeed  luscious. 

By  all  means,  let  us  have  the  choice  fruits  on  our  tables. 
What  is  more  inviting,  or  more  ornamental  on  the  well- 
spread  board,  than  fruits  and  flowers  tastefully  arranged 
with  green  leaves?  And  what  more  healthful  than  ripe 
fruits,  each  in  its  season,  eaten  with  good  bread,  and  the 
well-cooked  grains?  These  alone  (the  fruits  and  grains), 
once  they  find  their  proper  place  at  our  tables,  will  send 
into  hopeless  obscurity  the  venders  of  "  anti-bilious  pills." 

The  following  slip  from  the  Buckeye  Cookery,  may  be  ap- 
propriately cited  here  : 

"The  arrangement  of  fresh  fruits  for  the  table  affords 
play  for  the  most  cultivated  taste,  and  not  a  little  real 
inventive  genius.  Melons,  oranges,  and  indeed  all  kinds  of 
fruits,  are  appropriate  breakfast  dishes ;  and  a  raised 
center-piece  of  mixed  fruits,  furnishes  a  delicious  dessert, 


PART  III.]  EIPE   FRUITS    FOR    DESSERTS.  399 

and  is  an  indispensable  ornament  to  an  elegant  dinner- 
table." 

Fiiuts,  as  a  rule  (as  elsewhere  explained),  should  never  be 
eaten  at  the  same  meal  with  vegetables;  in  weak  stomachs 
especially,  these  are  inclined  to  quarrel  with  each  other.  It 
is  better  therefore  to  banish  fruit  entirely  from  all  "  vege- 
table dinners  " — though  for  invalids  it  is  sometimes  pref- 
erable to  banish  the  vegetables,  and  retain  the  fruits.  In 
other  words,  a  dinner  simply  of  fruits  and  grains,  or  grain 
preparations,  is  often  better  for  dyspeptic  stomachs,  than 
one  in  which  vegetables  proper  form  part  of  the  repast. 

But  for  further  hints  on  this  subject,  the  reader  is  re- 
ferred to  the  chapter  on  Food  Combinations. 

Apples. 

Apples,  in  our  northern  climates,  stand  at  the  head  of  all 
the  fruits;  they  are  grown  in  abundance,  in  many  of  the 
States;  and  with  proper  care,  they  will  remain  good  and  sound 
for  more  than  half  the  year.  Some  varieties  will  keep  till 
June,  or  even  later;  and  with  a  sufficiently  low  temperature, 
as  in  an  ice-house,  they  have  been  preserved  much  longer. 
The  flavor  of  the  apple  is  much  improved  by  keeping  the 
tree  in  good  condition;  judicious  pruning  is  needed,  to  let 
in  the  sunlight,  and  to  prevent  over-bearing.  Eipe  apples 
are  wholesome,  nutritious,  and  to  the  normal  appetite,  pal- 
atable. Children  are  always  fond  of  them — as  they  are  in- 
deed of  all  the  fruits;  and  it  seems  a  pity  that  they  can 
not  have  them  in  abundance.  And  if  children  of  a  larger 
growth,  would  in  the  morning  on  sitting  down  to  table, 
"  break  the  fast "  by  eating  a  good  fine  apple,  there  would 
be  fewer  liver  complaints,  and  headaches. — But,  says  one, 
"Fruits  do  not  agree  with  me,  and  especially  apples;  they 
make  me  sick."  A  frank  confession,  this,  that  there  is  so 
much  bile  in  the  liver  that  the  presence  of  acid  fruits  at 
once  starts  it  to  flowing,  and  causes  nausea,  or  other  un- 


400  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

pleasant  feelings.  Or  perhaps  you  are  a  drinker  of  tea  and 
coffee;  and  these,  as  is  their  wont,  are  "  quarreling  "  with  the 
apples.  Or  the  greasy  foods,  it  may  be,  do  not  go  well  with 
the  acids.  There  is  a  great  deal  in  the  sort  of  company  in 
which  these  foods  are  found;  one  worthless  companion  will 
often  demoralize  the  whole  lot. 

Apples  do  their  best  work,  eaten  at  or  before  breakfast; 
or  they  may  form  a  part  of  the  mid-day  meal,  provided  the 
latter  consists  of  bread  and  other  cereals,  to  be  eaten  with 
fruits.  If  of  good  variety  and  in  fair  condition,  they  need 
no  further  preparation  than  wiping  with  a  damp  cloth,  to 
remove  any  dust  that  may  have  lodged  on  them.  Do  not 
rub  them  till  they  shine,  as  this  not  only  detracts  from  their 
appearance,  but  it  arouses  an  unpleasant  suspicion  that  you 
may  have  bought  them  of  the  man  at  the  corner,  who  is  in 
the  habit  of  "  polishing  up  "  his  apples  by  rubbing  them  on 
the  knee  of  his  breeches.  Place  them  in  an  open  fruit 
basket  or  other  receiver,  taking  care  to  display  their  bright 
rosy  cheeks,  with  stems  and  blossom  ends  not  altogether 
out  of  sight. 

Oranges  and  apples  mixed  (the  latter  of  handsome  hue), 
make  a  fine  combination  of  color;  a  few  sprigs  of  green 
leaves,  tucked  in  here  and  there,  will  heighten  the  effect. 

Peaches. 

There  is  every  variety  of  peach  in  our  markets,  from  the 
little  green  snarl,  bitter  as  quinine,  to  the  great  lucious 
fruit,  ripe  and  rosy,  but  too  often  kept  in  the  stalls  or  in 
transitu,  until  its  natural  flavor  is  gone,  and  a  sharp,  dis- 
greeable  acid  has  taken  its  place.  Peaches,  of  all  fruits, 
lose  their  exquisitely  fine,  flavor  by  becoming  stale.  If 
fresh  and  ripe,  and  otherwise  of  good  quality,  they  require 
nothing  to  make  them  palatable  except  paring;  hardly  that, 
as  the  best  of  the  fruit  lies  directly  under  the  skin.  Ar- 
range them  tastefully  in  your  basket  or  fruit  dish,  showing 


PART  IU.]  RIPE   FRUITS    FOR   DESSERTS.  401 

to  advantage  the  pink  and  cream  tints,  or  the  mottled  hues 
where  a  leaf  has  fallen,  and  intercepted  the  rays  of  that 
"  royal  arch  "  painter,  the  sun.  Add  a  few  bunches  of 
glossy  leaves  from  the  tree,  if  they  are  at  your  command, 
and  place  the  fruit  on  the  table. 

If  "  peaches  and  cream "  are  the  order  of  the  evening, 
begin  the  work  of  paring  as  late  as  practicable,  before  the 
time  of  serving,  as  the  fruit  will  discolor  if  it  has  to  stand. 
Peel  as  thin  as  possible.  And  whatever  you  do,  keep  the 
sugar  off  it,  for  two  good  reasons;  in  the  first  place  it  will 
start  the  juices,  discolor  the  fruit,  and  destroy  the  fine 
peach  flavor;  and  instead  of  "  fresh  peaches  and  cream," 
you  will  have  a  bowl  of  brown,  sloppy  material,  as  unsightly 
as  it  is  insipid.  In  the  next  place,  if  the  fruit  is  rich  and 
good,  some  will  prefer  it  either  without  a  dressing,  or  with 
cream  only.  Then  see  to  it  that  the  peaches  are  pared, 
stoned,  and  cut  in  eighths,  not  longer  than  half  an  hour  be- 
fore supper  ;  set  them  on  ice  till  they  are  wanted  for 
the  table;  and  after  serving,  pass  round  the  cream  and 
sugar,  so  that  the  guests  can  suit  themselves.  Served  in 
this  way,  the  color  and  flavor  of  the  peaches  are  well  pre- 
served. 

Pears  and  Plums. 

Pears  are  at  once  the  poorest  and  the  best  of  fruits;  a 
few  choice  varieties,  as  the  Seckel,  Bartlett,  and  White 
Doyenne,  are  perfectly  delicious;  they  are  fine  in  texture, 
rich  in  flavor,  and  very  juicy.  There  are  others  that  com- 
pare favorably  with  these,  and  still  others  that  are  coarse, 
tough  in  the  skin,  and  insipid.  Pipe  pears  need  no  prepa- 
ration for  the  table,  except  care  in  the  selection.  They 
look  well  in  the  basket  with  peaches,  and  if  you  are  fortu- 
nate enough  to  get  hold  of  a  few  leaves,  either  from  the 
pear  or  peach  tree,  they  will  set  off  the  fruit  to  advantage. 

Plums  of  good  flavor,  if  they  are  clean,  ripe,  and  free 
from  worms,  are  ready  to  be  served. 


402  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Oranges  and  Bananas. 

Oranges  are  best  eaten  by  themselves,  as  they  seem  not  to 
do  well  mixed  with  other  fruit  acids.  Or  they  may  be  used  as 
a  dessert,  at  vegetable  dinners.  The  banana  is  a  very  hearty 
fruit,  and  is  better  digested  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal; 
or  at  least  on  an  empty  stomach.  If  eaten  at  the  end  of  a 
full  meal,  it  often  does  not  "  set  well." 

In  winter  or  spring,  when  fruit  is  scarce,  you  can  make 
up  a  very  acceptable  basket  of  fruit  with  oranges  and 
bananas.  Or  if  your  purse  will  afford  it,  you  may  substi- 
tute for  either,  some  California  pears;  or  a  few  fine  bunches 
of  grapes,  directly  from  the  "Golden  Gate  ";  they  look 
well,  laid  over  other  fruit. 

Strawberries. 

The  writer  once  ate  strawberries  in  Aberdeen,  Scotland, 
in  the  middle  of  September;  and  the  market-women  said 
they  had  had  them  steadily,  since  July.  The  berries  were 
fully  twice  as  large  as  any  that  come  to  our  own  markets — 
not  quite  as  bright  in  color,  or  so  highly  flavored,  but  very 
good. 

The  strawberries  in  our  large  cities,  are  often  carted 
through  the  streets  in  open  fruit  boxes  till  they  are  pretty 
well  sprinkled  with  dust,  or  fine  sand;  you  may  not  see  it 
on  them,  but  you  will  find  the  grit  between  your  teeth,  when 
you  eat  them;  and  the  only  alternative  is  to  remove  it  by 
careful  washing.  If  you  live  in  the  country,  or  a  country 
village,  you  may  be  spared  this  trouble  ;  and  the  berries 
will  lose  nothing  in  flavor.  In  that  case,  all  that  is  needed, 
provided  they  are  fully  ripe,  is  to  cap  them,  put  in  a  fruit 
dish,  and  send  to  the  table;  if  a  little  firm  however,  remove 
the  caps  half  an  hour  before  serving,  and  sprinkle  a  trifle 
of  sugar  over  them;  just  enough  to  start  the  juice. 

But  in  the  city,  where  you  get  the  dust-covered  berries 


PAET  III.]  RIPE   FRUITS   FOR   DESSERTS.  403 

of  tlie  market,  you  had  better  set  them  in  a  cool  clean  place, 
until  about  an  hour  before  they  are  wanted  ;  then  turn  the 
fruit  into  a  colander,  run  the  water  rapidly  over  it,  and 
drain  thoroughly  before  removing  the  caps.  Put  it  into  a 
glass  dish,  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar,  and  set  in  the  refrig- 
erator till  called  for.  If  not  sweet  enough  to  suit  every 
one,  the  sugar  can  be  passed  with  the  berries. 

The  above  directions  presuppose  that  the  fruit  is  to  be 
served  in  its  own  rich  juice ;  that  is,  without  cream.  Cream 
is  rather  a  bad  dressing  for  strawberries,  any  way  you  take 
it;  in  the  first  place,  it  curdles  the  moment  it  touches  them, 
rendering  the  dish  unsightly.  In  the  next  place,  it  destroys 
their  fine  flavor,  by  forming  with  them  a  mixture  somewhat 
akin  to  sour  milk,  in  taste.  And  lastly,  it  is  apt  to  cause 
disturbance,  in  stomachs  not  proof  against  the  combined 
effects  of  milk,  acid  and  sugar.  If,  however,  nothing  will 
do  but  "  strawberries  and  cream,"  keep  the  sugar  off  till  the 
berries  are  served  ;  then  pass  it,  along  with  the  cream — 
trusting  that  the  eater  will  see  the  necessity  of  "  prompt- 
ness and  dispatch,"  before  the  fruit  is  converted  into  a 
shapeless  mass  of  curds  and  whey.    . 

Kaspberries,  Blackberries  and  Dewberries. 

These  fruits,  gathered  fresh  from  the  vines,  need  little 
preparation  except  to  pick  out  an  occasional  stem,  or  over- 
ripe berry.  Put  them  into  a  glass  dish  and  serve,  sending 
the  sugar,  the  whipped  cream,  or  cream  and  sugar.  When 
fully  ripened,  the  fruit  is  good  enough  by  itself. 

Currants. 

Currants  turn  red  long  before  they  are  ripe;  in  this  con- 
dition, they  are  good  only  for  cooking.  To  be  fit  for  table 
use,  they  should  have  the  benefit  of  many  days'  ripening  in 
the  warm  sunshine;  then  they  are  delicious,  eaten  from  the 

stems.    And  as  if  to  invite  us  to  "  pluck  and  eat,"  they  hang 
27 


404  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III, 

long  on  the  bushes,  refusing  to  fall,  or  go  to  waste;  the 
very  end  of  the  season,  when  they  are  red,  ripe  and  lus- 
cious, gives  us  the  best.  Unfortunately,  the  "  heathen  round 
about"  find  them,  long  before  they  reach  this  period  of 
perfect  ripeness,  strip  them  from  the  stems,  and  make  them 
into  jelly.  Indeed,  the  bushes  are  usually  bare,  very  soon 
after  the  fruit  reddens. 

If  served  at  table  in  the  raw  state,  the  usual  method  is 
to  gather  the  currants  as  ripe  as  possible  (or  get  them  from 
the  markets),  wash  well  in  a  colander,  and  pick  carefully 
from  the  stems ;  then  put  them  into  a  glass  dish,  and 
sprinkle  fairly  with  sugar.  It  is  well  to  do  this  half  an 
hour  before  you  eat  them;  when  the  sugar  is  added,  stir  it 
well  through  the  fruit ;  and  if  the  currants  are  partly 
crushed,  it  will  make  them  all  the  more  juicy.  Set  them  in 
the  ice-chest  or  other  cool  place,  till  wanted.  Cream  is 
sometimes  served  with  them  ;  but  if  the  fruit  is  at  all 
broken,  it  makes  a  curdled  mixture. 

Raspberries  and  Currants. 

Raspberries  and  currants  are  excellent  mixed— either 
half  and  half,  or  two  to  three  parts  raspberries,  to  one  of 
currants  picked  from  the  stems.  The  only  dressing  they 
need,  is  a  little  sugar;  though  cream  would  suit  them  very 
much  better  than  it  does  strawberries.  A  good  way  is  to 
take  equal  parts  currants  and  raspberries,  half  crushing  the 
latter  ;  then  sweeten  to  taste,  stir  well  together,  and  serve. 

Gooseberries. 

Gooseberries,  properly  cultivated,  are  really  a  very  fine 
fruit.  In  Scotland  and  England,  where  they  are  grown  to 
perfection,  and  where  the  soil  and  climate  are  adapted  to 
their  highest  culture,  they  are  of  numerous  varieties,  and 
are  very  large  and  luscious.  If  fresh  and  ripe,  they  are 
hardly  surpassed  by  the  choicest  of  the  small  fruits.     In 


PART  III.]  RIPE   FRUITS    FOR   DESSERTS.  405 

this  country  they  do  not  grow  to  half  the  size,  and  the 
flavor  is  very  different.  The  quality  of  the  fruit  here  could 
be  greatly  improved,  by  keeping  the  bushes  well  trimmed  ; 
this  would  give  fewer  berries,  but  much  larger ;  and  it 
would  let  in  the  sunshine,  without  which  no  fruit  is  perfect. 
Gooseberries  are  finest  in  flavor  when  not  overripe;  drop 
them  into  cold  water  fifteen  minutes,  then  drain,  and  send 
to  the  table  in  a  glass  dish.  They  are  eaten  from  the  stems, 
rejecting  the  skins. 

Huckleberries. 

Huckleberries  rarely  appear  in  our  western  markets;  and 
still  more  rarely  in  good  condition.  Those  who  have  eaten 
them  on  their  native  hills,  in  the  Eastern  and  Middle  States, 
say  that  they  are  excellent  served  without  a  condiment,  and 
very  good  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Cherries. 

Cherries  are  a  beautiful  fruit;  and  nicely  arranged,  they 
make  a  fine  ornament  for  the  table.  Pick  them  in  bunches, 
a  few  leaves  with  them,  if  possible,  and  arrange  with  flow- 
ers, in  a  basket.  Pass  the  latter  to  the  guests,  and  let  them 
pick  out  the  cherries  ;  or  if  you  like,  fill  the  basket  with 
button-hole  bouquets,  and  bunches  of  cherries  ;  the  latter 
heaped  in  the  center,  and  the  flowers  arranged  around  the 
border. 

Sweet  cherries,  which  are  usually  white  or  cream-colored, 
with  a  little  blush,  are  generally  favorites;  though  there  are 
other  varieties  with  a  rich,  sub-acid  flavor,  that  are  fine  when 
fully  ripe.  In  preparing  them  for  the  table,  see  that  there 
are  no  wormy  ones. 

Grapes. 

Grapes,  fully  ripe,  and  fresh  from  the  vines,  are  ready 
for  eating  ;  but  by  the  time  they  reach  the  city  markets, 
they  are  covered  with  well-trodden  plebeian  dust.      This 


406  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIT. 

must  of  course  be  washed  off,  even  though  we  detract  from 
the  exquisite  beauty  of  the  fruit,  by  destroying  in  a  meas- 
ure that  indescribable  covering,  the  "bloom,"  which  no 
artist  can  ever  hope  to  paint. 

The  best  thing  to  do  with  them,  when  the  bunches  come 
heated,  and  laden  with  dust,  is  to  drop  them  into  cold 
water — ice-water,  if  you  have  it — and  let  them  stand  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes,  before  serving.  Then  lay  the  bunches 
loosely,  on  a  wide  but  shallow  glass  dish;  or,  arrange  them 
with  other  fruit,  as  pears  or  peaches,  by  filling  a  dish  with 
the  latter,  and  laying  the  grapes  on  top.  They  are  fine, 
eaten  the  first  thing  at  the  breakfast  table,  particularly  "on 
a  warm  morning. 

Fresh  Figs. 

Fresh  figs  and  fresh  dates,  are  said  to  be  very  good,  eaten 
either  without  a  dressing,  or  with  milk  or  cream;  but  since 
we  rarely  see  them  in  this  climate,  there  is  little  opportunity 
to  know  much  about  them,  either  as  to  quality,  flavor,  or 
modes  of  serving. 

Frosted  Fruit. 

Take  fine  bunches  of  currants,  and  dip  them,  one  at  a 
time,  into  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  moistening  the  en- 
tire surface  of  the  fruit.  Then  roll  each  bunch  in  powdered 
sugar,  and  lay  them  a  little  apart,  on  an  inverted  sieve,  on 
which  has  been  placed  a  clean  white  paper.  Put  them  into 
an  oven,  slightly  warm,  or  on  top  of  the  stove,  to  dry. 
Cherries  on  their  stems,  and  in  clusters  if  you  can  get  them, 
are  beautiful,  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Or  you  may  take 
plums,  grapes  or  apricots,  dip  each  into  the  egg,  and  lay  a 
little  apart  on  the  paper;  then  sift  the  sugar  over  them, 
and  dry  as  before. 

Fruits  frosted  in  this  manner,  are  used  for  garnishing 
cakes,  and  other  dessert  dishes;  or  they  may  be  tastefully 
arranged  in  a  dish  by  themselves,  or  with  other  fruit. 


PART  in.]  VEGETABLES.  407 

VEGETABLES. 

Full  directions  have  already  been  given  in  Part  II.,  for 
cooking  vegetables  in  the  hygienic  way;  if  seasonings  are 
wanted,  as  salt,  sugar,  etc.,  the  cook  will  have  no  trouble  in 
adding  them  to  suit  the  taste;  though  in  a  sanitary  point  of 
view,  the  foods  would  be  better  without  these  condiments. 

All  then  that  is  needed  in  Part  ILT.,  on  cooking  vege- 
tables, is  to  give  in  general  terms  the  best  methods  of  boil- 
ing, baking,  stewing,  etc.,  along  with  the  little  "  finishing  " 
with  either  milk  or  cream,  that  makes  the  hygienic  dishes 
more  acceptable  to  the  ordinary  palate.  As  elsewhere 
stated,  the  flavors  natural  to  these  products  should  neither 
be  soaked  out,  nor  burnt  out;  nor  should  the  vegetables  be 
half  cooked,  nor  yet  "cooked  to  death";  but  each  should 
have  its  own  intrinsic  goodness  carefully  preserved,  and 
individualized.  What  is  known  as  modern  cookery,  might 
very  properly  be  styled,  "The  art  of  spoiling  foods";  their 
essence  is  wasted  in  preparing  and  cooking  them,  after 
which  a  feeble  atonement  is  attempted,  by  adding  pungent 
and  stimulating  condiments,  the  effect  of  which  is  to  cover 
up  the  otherwise  obvious  "  flatness,"  and  to  tickle  and  de- 
ceive the  palate. 

It  will  be  observed,  that  about  the  only  dressing  named 
in  the  following  recipes  for  vegetables,  is  a  little  cream — to 
which  it  may  be  objected,  that  this  article  is  not  always  to 
be  had;  and  rarely  in  abundance.  The  objection  is  not 
well  taken,  as  the  lawyers  say;  in  the  first  place,  it  is  only 
"a  little  "  that  is  wanted;  and  in  the  next  place,  the  disuse 
of  butter — were  it  general — would  afford  all  the  cream  that 
is  required;  for  the  latter  is  necessarily  consumed  in 
making  the  former.  However,  if  the  people  must  hove 
butter,  and  can  not  afford  to  provide  the  cream,  then  they 
will  simply  have  to  substitute  the  one  for  the  other,  in  the 
recipes  here  given;  that  is,  for  "cream,"  read,  "fresh  but- 
ter," using  it  sparingly. 


408  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Most  vegetables  can  either  be  cooked  in  a  closed  steamer 
(one  with  flues  in  the  sides,  instead  of  holes  in  the  bottom), 
or  boiled  in  a  kettle;  if  a  steamer  is  used,  the  water  in  the 
pot  below  must  be  kept  at  a  fast  boil.  Some  vegetables,  as 
turnips  or  tomatoes,  should  never  be  put  into  an  iroii 
vessel ;  it  is  well  to  keep  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  for  these. 

Potatoes. 

The  potato  may  be  called  the  king  of  vegetables,  as 
wheat  is  chief  among  grains.  It  perhaps  more  nearly  sup- 
plies all  the  wants  of  the  body,  giving  the  fluids  and  solids 
in  the  right  proportions,  than  almost  any  other  of  the  vege- 
tables proper.  It  is  a  great  misfortune  that  this  tuber  is 
handled  in  such  a  reckless  manner,  both  before  and  after 
it  comes  into  the  hands  of  the  cook;  the  individual  just 
named,  soaks  out  its  nutritive  substance  before  it  goes  into 
the  pot;  then  she  boils  it  in  a  large  quantity  of  water,  and 
wastes  another  portion;  lastly,  she  saturates  it  most  thor- 
oughly with  salt  and  other  condiments,  to  disguise  the 
insipid  taste  that  necessarily  follows  such  wasteful  man- 
agement. 

Potatoes,  unless  they  are  very  muddy,  should  be  peeled 
before  washing,  and  the  latter  process  should  be  gone 
through  with  very  quickly;  if  washed  first,  you  have  either 
to  dry  them  with  a  cloth  before  peeling,  or  else  wash  again, 
afterward. 

There  are  almost  endless  ways  of  cooking  potatoes,  the 
principal  of  which  are  to  bake,  boil,  or  stew;  and  though 
these  and  other  methods  have  already  been  pointed  out  in 
Part  II.,  it  has  been  thought  best  to  go  over  the  ground 
again,  in  Part  III. 

Boiled  Potatoes.  4j= 

Peel,  wash  quickly,  lifting  the  potatoes  immediately  out  of 
the  water,  and  then  drop  them  into  the  pot;  have  the  water 


TART  III.]  VEGETABLES.  409 

boiling,  and  not  much  more  than  will  cook  them.  Cover, 
and  boil  fast;  and  the  very  moment  you  can  run  a  fork 
through  the  largest,  drain  as  dry  as  possible,  keeping  the 
lid  on  to  hold  in  the  steam;  this  must  not  escape.  Set  the 
pot  back  on  the  stove,  where  it  will  keep  hot  without  scorch- 
ing in  the  bottom;  and  do  not  uncover  till  you  dish  the 
potatoes  for  the  table;  always  keep  them  in  their  own  hot 
steam  till  wanted;  they  will  evaporate  sufficiently  on  your 
j)late.  When  cooked  in  a  light  stew-pan,  with  a  handle, 
and  a  closely-fitting  lid,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  shake  them 
(covered)  after  draining.  If  the  cook  has  learned  how  to 
"  time  "  her  vegetables,  she  will  put  the  potatoes  in  the  pot 
just  twenty  minutes  before  she  rings  the  bell  for  dinner; 
then  they  will  not  have  to  stand,  after  they  are  done.  When 
all  is  ready,  dish  them  into  a  hot  tureen,  cover  quickly,  and 
send  to  the  table;  and  in  helping  your  guests,  always  close 
it  between  servings,  removing  the  spoon;  this  keeps  the 
potatoes  hot  to  the  end. 

If  they  are  sunburnt,  and  therefore  strong  in  flavor,  you 
will  have  to  take  off  rather  a  thick  paring,  and  boil  in  more 
water. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  ={£ 

Peel,  wash,  and  boil  the  potatoes,  the  same  as  in  the  pre- 
ceding, taking  care  to  drain  off  all  the  water,  the  moment 
that  the  fork  enters  them  easily.  Then  mash  till  there  are 
no  lumps,  and  stir  with  a  fork  till  the  potato  is  light  and 
flaky;  do  this  quickly,  with  the  pot  over  the  fire.  Then 
dish  lightly  into  a  hot  tureen,  filling  it  not  too  full,  cover, 
and  send  directly  to  the  table.  In  serving  begin  at  one 
side,  and  cut  with  the  spoon  to  the  bottom,  each  time;  this 
leaves  the  rest  of  the  potato  undisturbed,  and  therefore  hot. 
Cover  between  servings,  always  taking  the  spoon  out  before 
vou  lav  on  the  lid. 


410  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

Potatoes   in  Jackets.  4j= 

Potatoes  cooked  in  their  skins  must  not  be  sunburnt. 
Wash  them  quickly  but  carefully,  trimming  on:  any  gashed 
or  imperfect  spots  on  the  surface,  and  clipping  a  small  bit 
from  each  end.  At  the  proper  moment  drop  into  boiling 
water,  and  the  instant  the  fork  goes  rather  easily  through 
them,  drain  closely,  keeping  the  lid  on;  then  set  the  pot 
back  in  a  hot  place,  tightly  closed.  If  the  skins  have  not 
already  cracked  in  boiling,  you  may  half  crush  each  potato 
in  a  napkin,  as  you  lay  it  into  the  hot  tureen.  Put  on  the 
cover,  which  should  also  be  heated,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Baked  Potatoes.  =j£ 

Wash  the  potatoes  thoroughly  but  quickly,  so  as  not  to 
water-soak  them;  trim  off  any  defects,  and  bake  in  a  good 
steady  oven  till  you  can  crush  them,  but  not  a  moment  longer. 
It  will  require  usually  thirty  to  fifty  minutes,  according  to 
size,  variety,  and  heat  of  oven.  Baked  potatoes  should  be 
sent  to  the  table  as  soon  as  done;  if  that  is  impracticable, 
crush  each  one  in  the  hand  (holding  it  in  a  clean  napkin) 
till  you  break  the  skin,  and  permit  the  steam  within  it  to 
escape.  Then  put  them  into  a  hot  dish,  uncovered,  and  set 
in  a  warm  place  till  wanted. 

Baked   Potatoes. — (Peeled.)^ 

Peel,  and  then  wash,  doing  the  latter  very  quickly ;  trim 
off  imperfect  spots,  and  pare  out  the  "  eyes/'  if  they  are 
deep.  Lay  the  potatoes  on  a  clean  grate  in  the  oven,  and 
bake,  browning  a  little  (but  not  burning  or  blistering),  till 
you  can  crush  each  in  the  hand,  holding  it  in  a  clean  napkin. 
They  are  extra  good,  baked  in  this  way  ;  and  old  potatoes 
are  usually  too  strong  to  bake  in  any  other. 


PART  in.]  VEGETABLES.  411 

Stewed   Potatoes. 

Pare  and  quarter,  or  cut  into  thick  slices;  or  if  the  pota- 
toes are  small,  into  halves.  Drop  into  boiling  water,  having 
scarcely  more  than  will  cook  them,  and  boil  rapidly  till  a 
fork  will  pierce  them  easily;  do  not  cook  too  long.  If  there 
is  more  than  a  spoonful  of  water  remaining,  lift  the  lid,  and 
let  it  evaporate ;  then  add  half  a  cup  of  new  milk  (cream,  if 
you  have  it),  thickened  with  a  little  flour;  some  add  a  trifle 
of  chopped  parsley  with  the  milk.  Stir  once,  and  after  two 
or  three  minutes  dish  into  a  hot  tureen. 

Old  potatoes,  a  little  strong,  are  good  cooked  in  this  way. 

New  Potatoes. 

If  the  potatoes  are  newly  dug,  wash  quickly  in  cold  water 
and  slip  off  the  skins.  If  they  have  been  out  of  the 
ground  some  days,  you  will  need  to  scrape  them  with  a 
knife ;  and  if  your  market-man  has  kept  them  in  the  light  till 
they  are  no  longer  milk-white,  but  a  little  greenish  under 
the  skin,  you  may  have  to  peel  them  in  the  regular  way. 
Then  drop  into  boiling  water,  just  enough  to  cook  them, 
provided  they  are  fresh  from  the  field;  a  little  more  water, 
if  they  are  slightly  sunburnt;  boil  fast.  When  a  fork  will 
go  through  them,  drain  thoroughly,  and  add  half  a  cup 
of  milk  (cream  is  better)  thickened  with  a  trifle  of  flour; 
cover,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  dish. 

Creamed  Potato. 

Peel,  wash  quickly,  drop  into  boiling  water,  and  cook 
only  till  a  fork  will  go  through  the  largest.  Then  drain  off 
every  particle  of  water,  and  set  the  pot  back  on  a  hot  part 
of  the  stove.  Mash  rapidly  and  very  thoroughly,  leaving 
no  lumps;  then  stir  with  a  fork.  Have  ready  and  hot  a 
part  of  a  cup  of  cream,  or  good  new  milk;  pour  this  into 
the  potato,  and  whip  again  with  the  fork,  making  the  mass 


412  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III.. 

light  and  flaky.  Dish  immediately,  and  as  lightly  as  possible, 
into  a  hot  tureen,  not  filling  it  so  full  as  to  jam  the  potato; 
then  put  on  the  cover,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Another  way  is,  after  adding  the  cream,  to  beat  in  the 
white  of  an  egg  whipped  to  a  good  froth,  then  heap  the 
potato  lightly  on  a  dish,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  long  enough 
to  crust  a  little  on  the  surface. 

Potato  Snow. 

Peel  potatoes  that  are  very  dry  and  mealy,  and  drop  into 
boiling  water,  having  not  much  more  than  will  cook  them. 
Boil  pretty  fast;  and  as  soon  as  a  fork  will  go  through  them 
drain  ofl  all  the  water,  and  mash  over  the  fire  till  there  are 
no  lumps.  Then  rub  the  potato  through  a  coarse  wire 
sieve,  or  a  colander  with  large  holes,  letting  it  fall  into  a  hot 
dish  in  light  spiral  threads;  do  this  as  quickly  as  possible. 
When  all  is  through,  set  the  feathery  mass  into  a  quick 
oven  two  or  three  minutes,  or  just  long  enough  to  renew  the 
heat  without  crusting. 

Potato  Puff. 

Take  one  egg,  one  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  two  cups  of 
cold  or  hot  potato;  this  must  be  mashed  till  there  are  no 
lumps.  Beat  the  egg— some  take  only  the  white— stir  the 
milk  or  cream  into  it,  and  then  add  the  potato;  beat  all 
well  together,  pour  into  an  oiled  pudding-dish,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  till  the  top  is  nicely  browned. 

Browned  Potato.^ 
Oil  the  bottom  of  a  skillet  with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter,  or 
with  a  little  fat  from  clean  beef  dripping;  a  piece  twice  the 
size  of  a  hazel  nut  is  enough.  Slice  cold  potatoes  pretty 
thin,  and  when  the  skillet  is  hot  put  them  into  it.  Cover, 
and  cook  fast,  but  do  not  scorch  them;  no  stirring  is  needed. 
As  soon  as  they  have  browned  on  the  bottom,  turn  them 


PAKT  III. 


VEGETABLES.  413 


over  with  a  knife,  cover,  and  brown  again;  then  dish,  and 
serve  immediately;  they  must  not  stand  after  the}  are 
crusted.  Properly  done,  the  potatoes  are  light  and  naky 
with  crisp  brown  edges,  and  free  from  grease;  you  can 
warm  a  dishful  in  ten  minutes,  if  the  lire  is  just  right. 
Cold  mashed  potato  can  be  warmed  over  in  the  same  way. 

Hashed  Potato. 

Put  a  skillet  or  stew-pan  where  it  will  get  warm  ;  oil  the 
bottom  of  it  slightly  with  fresh  dripping  or  butter,  hash  the 
cold  potatoes  into  it,  and  then  put  in  half  a  cup  (more  or 
less)  of  milk  or  thin  cream.  Cover  closely,  heat  rather 
slowly,  and  stir  once  or  twice.  In  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  the 
milk  will  have  disappeared,  and  the  potato  will  be  heated 
all  through,  and  ready  for  serving. 

Sweet  Potatoes. 

Sweet  and  Irish  potatoes  are  often  injured  by  wet 
weather,  before  they  are  dug.  When  you  see  the  little 
sprouts  coming  out  all  over  them,  you  will  take  note  ;  the 
potatoes  will  be  either  watery,  or  sticky;  if  you  snap  off 
the  ends,  you  will  find  them  slightly  discolored  inside ;  and 
often  there  is  a  dark  deposit  all  over  the  tubers,  lying  just 
under  the  skin.  This  substance  is  very  indigestible,  and 
unwholesome;  it  is  most  conspicuous  after  the  potatoes  are 
boiled  ;  if  you  find  it,  remove,  by  peeling  carefully  after 
boiling,  before  you  brown  them  in  the  oven. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes.^ 
Select  potatoes  of  nearly  uniform  size;  wash  well,  drop 
into  boning  water,  and  cook  till  a  fork  will  go  through  them 
rather  easily  ;  if  boiled  too  long,  they  will  be  wet ;  if  too 
short  a  time,  they  will  be  harsh  and  tasteless.  Have  very 
little  water  in  the  pot  when  done  ;  none  at  all  is  better.  If 
the  potatoes  are  the  least  damaged  by  rains,  peel  after  boil- 


414  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

ing;  you  will  see  and  remove  the  dark  layer  on  the  surface, 
as  you  turn  back  the  skins;  then  brown  in  a  hot  oven,  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes.  Do  this  very  faithfully,  and  you  will  be 
amply  rewarded  by  the  rich  fine  flavor  of  the  potatoes. 

If  you  have  more  than  will  be  eaten,  do  not  peel  or 
brown  them;  next  day  remove  the  skins,  and  lay  in  a  hot 
oven;  they  will  be  quite  as  good  as  at  first.  Cold  sweet  po- 
tatoes are  excellent  peeled,  mashed,  and  then  browned. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

If  you  bake,  the  potatoes  must  be  free  from  that  dark 
bitter  deposit,  which  comes  from  soaking  rains.  Wash  well, 
and  trim  if  necessary;  then  bake  in  a  good  oven,  till  you 
can  crush  them  by  pressing  between  the  thumb  and  fingers. 

Roasted  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Wash,  cover  with  ashes,  and  then  with  coals,  and  roast 
till  done.     Eat  at  picnic  parties. 

Tomatoes. 

The  tomato  can  be  cooked  in  a  great  variety  of  ways, 
nearly  all  of  which  are  palatable;  and  most  persons  are 
very  fond  of  it  without  cooking.  Dietetically,  it  belongs 
with  vegetables,  rather  than  with  fruits.  It  is  one  of  the 
most  healthful  of  the  garden  products;  like  the  acid  fruits, 
it  is  a  better  "  anti-bilious  remedy "  than  all  the  "  chola- 
gogues  "  in  the  drug  shops.  The  only  harmful  ingredients 
about  it  (not  in  it)  are  the  seasonings,  as  salt,  pepper  and 
sugar,  that  are  too  often  added  in  the  preparing. 

Sliced  Tomatoes. 

Never  buy  an  imported  tomato,  or  melon ;  have  them 
fresh,  or  do  without  them.  Wash,  peel  without  scalding, 
and  slice  thin  into  the  dish  from  which  you  serve  ;  the 


PAKT  III.]  VEGETABLES.  415 

knife  should  have  a  thin  blade,  and  a  keen  edge.     Set  in 
the  ice-chest  half  an  hour,  if  you  want  the  tomatoes  cold. 

Stewed  Tomatoes.  4(= 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes,  and  the  moment 
the  skins  will  slip,  remove  them;  they  must  not  remain  in 
the  water  till  soft.  Then  slice  very  thin  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  stir  in  a  few  bread-crumbs,  fine  and  dry;  these 
must  be  put  in  while  the  tomatoes  are  cold,  else  the  bread 
will  become  clammy;  there  should  be  enough  to  thicken  a 
little— say  a  cup  of  crumbs  to  a  quart  of  tomatoes.  If  you 
have  no  bread,  use  rolled  crackers,  or  a  little  thickening 
made  of  Graham  or  white  flour,  and  milk  or  water.  Stew 
moderately  (fast  cooking  ruins  the  sauce)  for  an  hour  and  a 
half,  or  until  perfectly  smooth  ;  stir  often.  If  any  season- 
ing is  wanted,  add  before  dishing,  a  spoonful  of  thick 
cream  to  a  quart  of  sauce,  or  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut. 

Canned  tomatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  fresh  ;  and  the 
thickening  can  be  omitted,  if  desired.  Or  you  may  mix  to- 
gether one  part  coarse  crumbs  from  Graham  loaf,  and  three 
or  four  parts  tomatoes,  and  stew  as  before. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  till  smooth,  and  then  pour  them  over 
nicely  toasted  slices  of  good  home-made  Graham  bread,  un- 
sweetened. 

Scrambled  Tomatoes.  4£ 

Select  tomatoes  not  overripe,  peel  without  scalding,  and 
cut  into  rather  coarse  bits.  Add  about  two-thirds  the  quan- 
tity of  bread-crumbs,  good  home-made  Graham  loaf  ;  have 
the  bread  stale,  and  the  crumbs  not  very  fine.  Put  all  into 
a  porcelain  kettle,  add  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  or  a  spoonful  of 
cold  gravy,  and  cover  till  the  tomatoes  are  hot ;  then  stir 


416  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

lightly  every  half  minute  till  finished  ;  it  will  take  five  to 
eight  minutes,  according  to  quantity.  Lift  from  the  fire  as 
soon  as  done.  This  is  a  good  dish,  easily  and  quickly 
made. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes.  4£ 

Scald,  peel  and  slice,  and  if  not  very  ripe,  chop  them. 
Then  fill  an  earthen  dish,  well  oiled,  with  alternate  layers  of 
tomatoes  and  bread-crumbs,  beginning  and  ending  with  the 
tomatoes  ;  use  good  Graham  loaf,  stale  and  home-made. 
Moisten  each  layer  of  crumbs  with  a  spoonful  of  cream,  or 
meat  gravy;  or  if  you  have  not  these,  dot  the  tomatoes  with 
little  bits  of  fresh  butter.  Cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  an  hour  and  a  half  ;  longer,  if  the  scallop  is  large. 
Brown  at  the  end. 

Another. — Fill  the  dish  with  successive  layers  of  toma- 
toes, crumbs,  and  cold  beef  or  mutton,  the  latter  finely 
hashed,  and  moistened  with  a  little  cold  gravy  or  meat 
juice,  if  you  have  it.  Begin  and  end  with  the  tomatoes  ; 
make  the  scallop  pretty  thick,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
all  of  two  hours.  Canned  tomatoes  may  be  substituted  for 
fresh;  if  canned  ones  are  used,  drain  off  the  liquor  before 
arranging  the  layers,  and  take  it  to  moisten  the  crumbs. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

Mix  together  one  part  bread-crumbs,  not  too  fine,  and 
three  or  four  parts  sliced  tomatoes;  stew  in  a  porcelain 
kettle  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  cooking  moderately, 
and  stirring  very  little.  Then  add  a  trifle  of  cream  or  fresh 
butter,  or  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cold  meat  gravy  (sweet) 
from  the  bottom  of  your  dripping-bowl;  pour  into  an  earthen 
or  granitized  iron  pan,  well  oiled,  and  bake,  covered,  one  hour; 
longer,  if  you  like  the  dish  rather  dry,  making  it  a  sort  of 
tomato  bread. 

Another  way  is  to  mix  as  before,  and  bake  without  stew- 


PABT  III.]  VEGETABLES.  417 

ing;  cover  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  from  one  to 
two  ho  ill's. 

Broiled    Tomatoes. 

Tomatoes  are  sometimes  broiled,  by  holding  the  slices 
between  the  wires  of  an  oyster-broiler  until  the  surface  is 
slightly  browned.  Or  you  may  lay  them  into  a  skillet,  well 
oiled,  and  smoking  hot;  when  one  side  is  seared,  turn  and 
brown  the  other. 

Stuffed   Tomatoes. 

Scald  the  tomatoes  (not  too  long),  and  remove  the  skins; 
then  slice  off  the  blossom  ends,  and  take  out  the  inside; 
chop  this  fine,  and  add  grated  bread-crumbs,  moistened 
with  milk  or  cream;  some  use  butter,  or  cold  beef  gravy. 
Or  you  may  omit  the  milk  or  cream,  and  add  to  the  crumbs 
and  tomato,  half  or  two-thirds  the  quantity  of  finely  hashed 
beef  or  mutton  ;  moisten  the  meat  with  a  spoonful  of  cold 
gravy,  if  you  have  it.  Fill  the  hollow  tomatoes  with  this 
dressing,  and  replace  the  top  slices;  then  arrange  in  an 
earthen  or  granitized  iron  pan,  pack  the  dressing  that  re- 
mains between  them,  and  bake,  covered,  forty  to  fifty 
minutes. 

Another  way  is  to  fill  the  tomatoes  with  a  force-meat 
made  of  crumbs,  tomatoes,  and  grated  green  corn,  in  about 
equal  quantities;  stir  in  a  little  cream,  butter  or  dripping 
before  filling,  and  bake  as  before. 

Still  another  method,  is  to  take  chopped  cabbage  instead 
of  corn,  and  a  chopped  onion  (parboiled)  if  you  like  it.  Mix 
with  the  tomato,  and  moisten  with  cold  gravy  or  sweet 
cream;  then  fill  and  bake. 

Potatoes  and  Tomatoes. 

Peel  some  potatoes,  slice  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and 
stew  in  a  very  little  water,  ten  minutes,  then  add  one-third  as 
many  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes;  these  should  be  peeled 


418  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III 

without  scalding,  and  should  not  be  more  than  half  ripe. 
Stir  together,  and  cook  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  longer,  adding 
a  spoonful  of  cream,  cold  gravy,  or  a  small  bit  of  fresh 
butter,  three  minutes  before  taking  the  kettle  from  the  fire. 

Boiled  Green  Corn-4j= 

The  evergreen  corn,  of  which  Stowell's  is  a  variety,  is  the 
best;  and  by  means  of  successive  plantings,  one  can  have 
it  almost  continuously  from  July  to  the  coming  of  frost.  To 
be  sweet  and  luscious,  the  ears  must  be  newly  gathered  from 
the  field;  like  green  peas,  much  of  their  sweetness  is  gone 
in  a  single  night.  After  the  evergreen,  the  next  best  is  the 
white  or  yellow  "flint."  The  ears  should  be  so  young  and 
tender,  that  the  milk  will  spurt  from  the  grains,  when  they 
are  pressed  on  and  broken. 

Having  removed  the  husks  and  silks,  drop  the  ears  into 
boiling  water,  not  more  than  will  cover  them,  and  boil 
twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until  the  milk  is  fully  set. 
Then  lift  out  with  a  fork,  and  drop  into  a  basin  of  cold 
water,  letting  them  remain  in  it  a  minute  or  two;  this  will 
make  the  hulls  more  tender.  Then  lay  the  corn  into  a  tureen, 
cover,  and  send  to  the  table.  If  before  eating,  you  split 
the  grains  half  their  depth  by  drawing  a  sharp  knife  down 
the  rows,  the  kernels  will  slip  out  (provided  the  corn  is  not 
too  old),  leaving  the  hulls  on  the  cob. 

Stewed  Green  Corn.ij^ 

Select  ears  that  are  young  enough  for  the  milk  to  escape 
in  a  jet,  when  the  grain  is  pierced;  always  get  the  evergreen, 
if  you  can.  Remove  the  husks  and  silks,  and  split  the  rows 
half  the  depth  of  the  grain,  with  a  thin  sharp  knife.  Then 
scrape  out  the  pulp,  beginning  at  the  large  and  scraping  to 
the  small  end  of  the  ear;  this  leaves  nearly  or  quite  all  the 
hulls  on  the  cob.  Put  the  scraped-out  corn  into  a  tin  or 
porcelain  kettle,  add  a  very  little  water,  and  set  it  over  the 


PART  HI.]  VEGETABLES.  419 

fire;  cook  rapidly,  Stirling  all  the  time;  it  will  be  done  in 
ten  minutes.  Just  at  the  last,  stir  in  a  trifle  of  cream,  or 
good  sweet  milk — say  half  a  cup  to  a  pint  of  pulp — heat  a 
moment  and  turn  into  the  tureen.  This  is  an  excellent  dish, 
and  very  good  without  any  seasoning,  even  the  milk. 
Try  it. 

Corn  cut  from  the  Cob.4(= 

When  you  have  husked  and  silked  the  ears,  take  a  sharp 
thin  knife  and  shave  off  the  tip  ends  of  the  grains,  throw- 
ing them  away.  Then  cut  the  corn,  slicing  (or  rather  shav- 
ing) as  thin  as  you  can,  till  you  come  near  the  cob;  then 
with  a  dull  knife  scrape  out  the  rest;  it  must  not  be  too 
old;  simply  the  grains  well  filled.  Put  it  into  a  tin  or  por- 
celain kettle,  add  about  a  cup  of  boiling  water  to  a  quart  of 
cut  corn,  and  stew,  covered,  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  stir 
frequently;  then  add  half  a  cup  of  cream,  and  let  it  come 
just  to  a  boil,  stirring  once  from  the  bottom.  Dish,  and 
serve. 

If  you  have  no  cream,  add  a  little  new  milk,  or  sweet 
butter. 

Corn  and  Tomatoes.  =|£ 

Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes,  and  stew  moderately  half  an 
hour,  in  a  porcelain  or  granitized  iron  kettle.  Then  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  green  com,  cut  from  the  cob  as  in  the 
last  recipe.  Stew  another  half  hour,  stirring  frequently 
and  cover  the  kettle  between  times.  When  done,  stir  in  a 
little  cream  or  milk;  x>t  if  you  have  neither,  add  a  small  bit 
of  fresh  butter,  and  heat  a  moment ;  then  dish  into  the 
tureen     Do  not  serve  too  hot. 

Baked  Sweet  Corn. 

Split  the  grains  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  scrape  out  the 
pulp;  always  scrape  from  the  large  to  the  small  end  of  the 
ear.     The  corn  must  be  voung  and  tender,  or  the  hulls  will 
28 


420  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

come  off.  Pour  it  into  an  oiled  pudding-dish,  cover,  and 
set  in  the  oven;  cook  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  once 
or  twice.  Then  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk  (more 
or  less,  according  to  quantity  of  corn),  and  send  to  the 
table.     A  good  dish,  quickly  made. 

Cabbage.  4£ 

Bemove  the  outer  leaves,  and  lay  the  cabbage  into  cold 
water  half  an  hour;  if  the  head  is  not  compact,  shake  and 
rinse  it  well,  and  be  sure  there  are  no  insects  between  the 
leaves.  Cut  it  in  halves,  and  with  a  sharp  thin  knife  shave 
it  in  slices  as  thin  and  flaky  as  possible;  slice  from  the 
center  of  the  head  (beginning  with  the  stalk)  to  the  surface. 
Do  not  chop.     You  can  steam  or  boil,  as  is  most  convenient. 

If  you  boil,  put  the  cabbage  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  or 
very  clean  pot  (never  in  a  tin  or  copper-bottomed  vessel), 
and  add  only  enough  boiling  water  to  cook  it;  cover  closely, 
boil  fast  till  tender,  and  not  a  moment  longer.  Cabbage 
overdone,  is  insipid;  and  if  cooked  slowly,  it  is  stringy  and 
watery.  Watch  that  it  does  not  scorch;  if  water  has  to  be 
added,  put  it  in  boiling  hot.  A  head  of  medium  size 
(sliced),  will  cook  in  thirty  minutes.  When  done  lift  the  lid, 
stir  from  the  bottom  to  let  the  water  all  evaporate,  and  then 
add  a  very  little  thick  sweet  cream ;  stir  again,  moistening 
the  cabbage  all  through,  and  lift  quickly  from  the  fire ;  there 
must  be  no  puddles  of  cream  and  water  in  the  bottom. 
Dish  immediately,  and  leave  the  tureen  uncovered  five  to 
ten  minutes  (cabbage  is  better  not  too  hot),  and  you  will 
have  something  good,  and  digestible — provided  you  have  a 
good  cabbage  to  begin  with;  those  grown  on  some  soils  are 
strong  to  the  taste,  no  matter  how  you  cook  them. 

Cabbage  and  Tomatoes. 

Cook  as  in  the  last,  and  at  the  same  time  stew  in  a  sepa- 
rate kettle  some  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced.     When  the 


PART  III.]  VEGETABLES.  421 

cabbage  is  just  done,  turn  the  tomatoes  in  with  them,  and 
stir  all  together;  have  about  half  as  much  tomato  as  cab- 
bage. Then  stir  in  a  little  cream  if  you  have  it,  and  dish 
immediately;  or  you  may  add  half  a  spoonful  of  fresh  but- 
ter, when  you  put  in  the  tomatoes;  though  the  vegetables 
are  good  enough  without  seasoning. 

Cauliflower.^ 

Be  sure  you  do  not  buy  the  stale  article;  if  fresh,  the 
flowers  will  be  a  clear  white.  See  that  there  are  no  insects; 
after  soaking  in  cold  water  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  put  the 
asparagus  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add  a  little  boiling  water, 
and  stew  till  tender.  If  the  water  gets  too  low,  add  a  little 
more,  boiling  hot ;  this  vegetable  will  require  from  thirty 
to  forty  minutes  to  cook,  according  to  size  and  age.  When 
done,  drain  off  the  water,  if  more  than  a  spoonful  remains; 
then  add  a  little  thick  sweet  cream — or  such  as  you  have — 
stir  well  from  the  bottom,  and  dish  into  the  tureen.  Leave 
the  cover  off  a  few  minutes  before  sending  to  the  table  ; 
these  tender  vegetables  are  more  delicate  in  flavor,  if  served 
not  too  warm. 

The  French  people  cook  cauliflower  as  follows :  Boil  it  till 
tender  in  clear  water,  enough  to  cook  it ;  then  drain.  In 
another  vessel  stew  two  or  three  tomatoes,  till  quite  soft ; 
strain  these  through  a  sieve  or  colander,  return  to  the  fire, 
and  thicken  with  a  very  little  flour  wet  with  milk  or  water  ; 
add  a  small  bit  of  fresh  butter,  and  after  cooking  a  few 
minutes,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  vegetable.  This  is  a  very 
good  dish. 

Asparagus.  4^= 

If  you  raise  your  own  asparagus,  cut  it  (or  snap  it  off 
just  below  the  ground)  every  other  morning.  Then  all  you 
have  to  do  is  to  wash  it,  put  it  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and 
about  cover  with  boiling  water;  stew  twenty-five  to  thirty 


422  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

minutes,  and  it  is  ready  to  dish*  the  stalks  will  be  tender 
throughout. 

If  you  buy  in  the  city  market,  wash  well,  cut  off  the  hard 
woody  fiber,  or  part  of  it,  scrape  the  rest,  and  soak  it 
some  minutes  in  very  cold  water.  Then  lay  the  stalks  into 
a  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  boning  water,  and  cook  forty 
minutes,  or  until  tender.  When  done,  have  ready  some 
slices  of  good  hot  toast,  made  of  stale  home-made  Graham 
loaf  ;  dip  these  quickly  into  boiling  water,  and  spread  them 
on  a  platter  ;  then  lift  out  the  asparagus,  and  lay  it  on. 
Now  stir  into  the  asparagus  liquor  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  thickened  a  little  with  flour  ;  let  this 
just  begin  to  boil,  pour  it  over  the  toast,  and  send  to  the 
table.  Cold  biscuits,  split  open  and  toasted,  may  be  used 
instead  of  loaf  bread. 

Many  like  young  asparagus  simply  boiled,  and  served 
without  a  dressing. 

Green  Peas.  4}= 

The  time  of  cooking  these  will  vary,  and  so  will  the 
sweetness,  according  to  age  and  variety ;  twenty-five  to 
thirty  minutes  is  usually  long  enough  for  young  peas,  just 
from  the  garden  ;  if  older,  it  may  take  from  forty  to  forty- 
five  minutes.  They  should  be  pulled  as  soon  as  (almost  be- 
fore) they  are  of  full  size;  and  if  not  cooked  the  same  day, 
much  of  their  sweetness  will  be  lost.  When  newly  gathered, 
the  little  stems  are  green  and  fresh. 

Shell  the  peas,  and  either  cook  without  washing,  blowing 
out  the  shriveled  blossoms,  or  wash  as  quickly  as  possible, 
in  cold  water.  Then  put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  add 
half  or  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water  to  a  quart  of 
shelled  peas,  and  stew  slowly  till  tender.  There  should  be 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  water  left,  when  done ;  then  pour  all  out 
together,  and  serve  without  a  dressing.  Or  if  preferred, 
stir  in  a  very  little  cream,  thickened  a  trifle  with  flour;  boil 


PART  III.]  VEGETABLES.  423 

up  just  a  moment,  and  take  from  the  fire.     Serve  in  sauce 
dishes,  and  pass  the  teaspoons. 

If  the  pods  are  fresh  and  young,  you  may  simmer  them 
(or  part  of  them)  in  a  little  water  fifteen  minutes,  then 
drain  it  off,  and  use  it  for  boiling  the  peas.  Or  you  may 
drop  a  few  of  the  tenderest  pods  in  with  them,  and  remove 
"before  serving. 

Canned  Peas. 

The  best  canned  peas  are  the  marrowfats;  though  a  brand 
called  the  "  Extra  Early,"  is  fine.  Drain  off  the  liquor,  and 
throw  it  away;  then  put  the  peas  into  a  porcelain  kettle, 
stir  in  a  little  thickening  of  cream  and  flour,  heat  barely  to 
boiling,  and  dish. 

Canned  string  beans  are  served  in  the  same  way. 

Okras. 

Pick  the  fresh,  young  okras,  wash  them,  drop  into  boil- 
ing water,  and  cook  until  tender — in  a  porcelain  kettle, 
as  iron  discolors;  do  not  boil  in  too  much  water.  When 
done  drain  off  the  little  that  remains,  add  part  of  a  cup  of 
fresh  cream,  or  a  bit  of  butter,  stir  once  or  twice,  and  lift 
from  the  fire.    This  is  a  plain  but  good  dish,  easily  prepared 

String  Beans.  4}= 

If  you  buy  in  the  markets,  beware  of  stale  beans;  exam 
ine  the  little  stems,  and  see  that  they  are  green  and  fresh  , 
not  dry  and  half  shriveled.  String  beans,  to  be  good,  must 
be  cooked  till  thoroughly  tender;  most  varieties  require  an 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  particularly  if  they  have  been 
gathered  two  or  three  days,  or  longer. 

String  them  carefully,  rejecting  any  imperfect  ones,  or 
blemished  portions  ;  then  snap  into  inch  lengths,  and  wash 
well  in  cold  water.  Put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  covei 
with  boiling  water,  and  cook  steadily;  test  now  and  then, 


4:24  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

after  an  hour's  time,  to  see  if  they  are  done  ;  too  much 
cooking  is  as  bad  as  too  little.  By  all  means  do  not  let  the 
pot  go  dry ;  if  you  do,  the  beans  will  be  worthless.  If  water 
is  needed,  have  it  boiling  hot ;  and  add  so  sparingly  that 
when  done,  there  shall  be  scarcely  more  than  a  spoonful  left 
in  the  bottom.  If  by  chance  too  much  has  been  put  in,  lift 
the  lid  a  few  minutes  before  finishing,  stir  occasionally,  and 
let  it  evaporate.  When  the  water  is  nearly  all  out,  add,  say 
a  third  of  a  cup  of  cream  thickened  with  a  little  flour  ;  let 
this  barely  come  to  the  boil,  and  then  dish  into  the  tureen. 
If  you  have  no  cream,  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  will  answer  ; 
but  do  not  drown  the  beans  in  grease.  After  dishing  let 
them  stand  with  the  cover  off,  for  at  least  ten  minutes,  be- 
fore you  send  to  the  table;  they  are  best  not  too  warm.  If 
there  are  some  left  over,  never  warm  them,  but  serve  cold. 

"Wax  Beans.  41= 

This  bean  has  a  cream-colored  pod;  it  is  very  tender  and 
good,  if  cooked  sufficiently.  It  has  but  little  string,  and 
that  little  can  not  be  removed  except  with  a  knife;  you  can 
either  go  to  this  trouble  to  get  rid  of  it,  or  leave  it  on. 
Break  off  the  ends,  and  snap  into  bits  an  inch  long;  then 
wash,  drop  into  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  done;  these 
beans  bought  in  the  market,  often  require  two  hours  or  two 
and  a  half,  to  boil  tender;  early  in  the  season,  if  newly 
gathered,  they  will  cook  in  less  time.  Finish  with  cream  or 
butter,  the  same  as  the  last,  and  serve  warm,  not  hot. 

Shelled  Beans.  4|= 

The  time  required  to  cook  fresh  shelled  beans,  will  de- 
pend upon  their  age  and  variety;  you  may  allow  from  forty 
to  sixty  minutes;  and  if  they  stand  a  few  moments  at  the 
last,  it  will  not  injure  them.  Having  finished  the  shelling, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  moderately;  if  they 
threaten  to  go  dry,  add  a  little  more,  boiling  hot.     When 


PART  in.]  VEGETABLES.  425 

done  the  beans  should  be  soft  and  juicy,  but  not  broken. 
If  any  dressing  is  wanted,  add  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cream, 
one  minute  before  lifting  from  the  fire. 

Lima  and  Butter  Beans.  =f£ 

Fresh  Lima,  or  butter  beans,  are  not  good  till  they  are 
full-grown,  and  white  in  color.  Shell  them,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  till  tender,  but  not  till  they  are 
broken  to  pieces;  they  will  require  from  forty  to  sixty  min- 
utes. If  they  need  more  water,  add  it  boiling;  there  should 
be  only  two  or  three  spoonfuls  in  the  kettle,  when  done;  if 
too  much,  lift  the  lid  at  the  last,  stir  a  little,  and  let  it 
about  all  evaporate.  Then  thicken,  say  a  third  of  a  cup  of 
thin  cream  with  a  trifle  of  flour,  stir  it  in,  and  boil  up  a 
moment  before  dishing  into  the  tureen.  There  is  no  better 
way  to  cook  Lima  beans  than  this. 

Succotash.  4^ 

Succotash  is  best  made  of  one  part  Lima  beans,  and  two 
parts  corn.  Boil  the  beans  over  a  moderate  fire,  as  in  the 
last  recipe;  cook  nearly  an  hour  or  until  tender,  but  not 
till  they  are  broken.  There  must  be  only  a  moderate  sup- 
ply of  water  in  the  pot  when  done.  While  these  are  cook- 
ing, cut  from  the  cob  double  the  quantity  of  fresh  evergreen 
corn;  have  a  sharp  knife,  shave  off  the  very  tip  ends  of  the 
grains,  and  throw  them  away — or,  to  your  chickens.  And 
in  cutting  off  the  grains,  do  not  shave  quite  down  to  the 
cob;  leave  a  little,  to  scrape  out  at  the  last.  By  these  pre- 
cautions, you  will  get  rid  of  most  of  the  hulls,  and  the 
rougher  part  of  them.  When  the  beans  are  done  enough 
put  in  the  corn,  and  simmer  slowly  half  an  hour,  stirring 
frequently.  If  any  dressing  is  required,  add  a  little  cream 
or  fresh  butter,  just  as  you  take  the  pot  from  the  fire. 

Butter  beans,  or  common  shell  beans,  may  be  used  for 
succotash,  instead  of  Limas. 


426  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Boiled  Dried  Beans.  4£ 

Look  them  over  carefully,  throwing  out  all  discolored 
ones;  then  wash  in  several  waters,  rubbing  well  with  the 
hands.  Never  soak;  it  toughens  the  hulls,  and  makes  them 
slip  off  whole;  it  also  injures  the  flavor  of  the  beans.  If 
they  are  a  year  old,  and  therefore  a  little  strong  in  taste, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  parboil  ten  minutes;  then 
drain  it  all  off,  and  add  more,  boiling  hot.  But  if  reason- 
ably fresh,  simply  wash  them,  drop  into  boiling  water 
(never  into  cold),  and  boil  rather  briskly  the  first  half  hour; 
this  makes  the  hulls  more  tender.  Then  stew  very  moder- 
ately, adding  more  boiling  water  if  necessary;  cook  till 
done,  but  not  till  they  have  fallen  to  pieces.  It  will  take, 
usually,  from  two  to  three  hours;  though  a  good  deal  de- 
pends upon  the  age  and  variety;  the  white  marrowfats  will 
cook  in  less  time,  unless  they  are  very  old.  The  beans 
should  be  moderately  juicy,  when  finished;  if  a  dressing- 
is  wanted,  a  trifle  of  cream  is  the  best;  add  it  one  minute 
before  dishing.  Some  like  a  soup-bone,  or  a  bit  of  beef  or 
mutton  rib,  boiled  with  this  vegetable;  the  meat  should  be 
brought  to  a  boil  and  skimmed,  before  putting  in  the  beans. 

The  speckled  cranberry,  or  other  beans  that  are  of  a 
dark  color,  are  milder  in  flavor  if  parboiled,  as  follows  : 
after  washing  thoroughly,  cover  them  with  boiling  water, 
and  cook  rapidly  fifteen  minutes;  then  drain,  cover  again 
with  water,  boiling  hot,  and  cook  as  before.  Some  add  a 
little  milk  or  cream,  just  at  the  last;  and  some  use  a  lump 
of  fresh  butter. 

Stewed  Beans. 

Another  way  of  cooking  beans  that  is  very  good,  is  to 
cover  them  with  cold  water,  and  set  the  pot  back  where  it 
will  simmer,  but  not  boil;  it  must  not  bubble  once;  keep  the 
lid  on,  and  cook  till  done.     For  dried  beans  it  will  require 


PAET  III.]  VEGETABLES.  427 

about  three  hours  to  make  thein  tender.     Finish  with  a  lit- 
tle milk  or  cream,  if  you  want  a  dressing. 

Based  Beans.  4£ 

Stew  the  little  soup  bean,  white  kidney,  or  white  marrow- 
fat, as  in  the  last  recipe  but  one.  Cook  rapidly  two  hours,  or 
until  the  beans  are  not  only  soft,  but  beginning  to  fall  to 
pieces;  have  plenty  of  juice  in  them.  If  you  want  them 
extra  good,  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  then  pour 
into  a  deep  dish,  smooth  the  top  with  a  knife,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  two  to  three  hours,  or  until  the  beans  are  a 
rich  red  color  throughout. 

If  a  nearer  approach  to  "  pork  and  beans "  is  desirable, 
omit  the  milk,  or  cream,  and  put  in  a  bit  of  fresh  beef  rib, 
rather  lean,  and  previously  stewed  in  a  little  water  till  ten- 
der; place  the  meat  in  the  dish,  pour  the  stewed  beanr, 
around  and  over  it,  and  bake  as  before.  A  little  fresh  beef 
gravy,  stirred  in  before  baking,  is  not  a  bad  substitute  for 
the  meat. 

Parsnips.  4£ 

Wash  and  scrape  the  parsnips,  and  if  large,  split  in  halves 
or  quarters;  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  and  stew  mod- 
erately three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  till  thoroughly  tender; 
if  they  are  old,  it  may  take  an  hour,  or  longer.  There 
should  be  nearly  a  cup  of  liquor  in  the  pot,  at  the  end.  Put 
them  into  a  bake-pan,  pour  all  the  liquor  over,  and  place  in 
the  oven  to  brown.  Bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  basting 
frequently;  the  liquor  should  all  be  evaporated  when  done. 
No  seasoning  is  required. 

Another  way,  much  liked,  is  this  :  After  cutting  in  halves 
or  quarters,  remove  the  hard  or  stringy  portion  in  the 
center  of  the  parsnip;  then  boil  till  quite  tender,  having 
the  water  all  evaporated  at  the  last.  Mash  till  perfectly 
smooth,  stir  in  a  little  cream  or  fresh  butter,  and  heat  a 
moment;  then  dish.     Thev  are  excellent. 


428  health  in  the  household.  [part  iil 

Turnips.  41= 

These  vary  so  much  in  size,  age  and  variety,  that  it  is 
hard  to  give  a  rule  as  to  time  of  cooking.  The  common 
white  kind  cooks  in  less  than  half  the  time  that  is  required 
for  Swedish,  or  ruta-baga  turnips;  the  latter  need  all  of 
two  hours'  boiling  or  steaming.  White  turnips,  if  very 
young,  will  sometimes  cook  in  thirty  minutes;  but  if  old,  an 
hour  or  longer  is  generally  necessary.  A  safe  way,  however, 
is  to  start  them  in  good  season,  and  test  with  a  fork  toward 
the  last;  they  are  better  cooled  to  lukewarm,  before  serving. 

Wash  and  peel  them,  rejecting  all  that  are  pithy,  or 
coarse  and  stringy;  a  single  bitter  one  will  sometimes  spoil 
the  whole  mess.  Cut  them  into  slices  of  half  an  inch; 
then  place  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  an  old  saucer,  inverted, 
or  a  small  pie-pan,  put  in  the  turnips,  and  cover  with  boil- 
ing water;  have  about  enough  to  cook  them,  leaving  very 
little  to  drain  off.  Boil  rapidly,  and  watch  that  the  pot 
does  not  go  dry;  if  this  happens,  you  will  lose  the  sweetness 
of  the  turnips;  and  if  cooked  too  long,  they  will  turn  red 
and  taste  strong. 

You  may  cook  in  a  closed  steamer,  if  you  like;  in  which 
case,  steam  rapidly  till  tender.  As  soon  as  a  fork  will  pierce 
the  slices  easily,  set  up  the  steamer,  turn  them  into  a  por- 
celain kettle  or  other  flat-bottomed  vessel,  and  drain  in  all  the 
liquor.  Place  over  the  fire,  and  when  the  water  is  about  all 
evaporated  mash  with  a  potato-masher,  stir  in  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  cream,  and  dish  for  the  table. 

The  Swedish  turnip  must  not  be  cooked  too  dry;  it  is 
better  left  pretty  moist,  before  you  stir  in  the  cream. 

Boiled  Carrots* 

There  is  a  little  carrot  called  the  "Early  Horn,"'  that 
matures  in  July,  and  boils  tender  in  an  hour.  Winter  car- 
rots grow  larger,  and  take  longer  to  cook;  they  are  used 


PART  III.]  VEGETABLES.  429 

chiefly  for  soups.  If  boiled  by  themselves,  wash  and  scrape 
thein,  and  leave  in  cold  water  awhile  before  cooking;  if 
large,  cut  them  lengthwise,  in  slices  not  too  thin,  and  boil 
the  same  as  turnips,  only  longer;  they  usually  require  an 
hour  and  a  half,  or  two  hours.  When  done,  the  water 
should  be  about  all  evaporated. — You  may  add  in  starting, 
a  pint  of  vegetable  soup,  or  the  boilings  of  beef  or  mutton, 
if  you  have  fears  that  they  will  taste  '''flat."  Some  season 
with  cream  or  butter,  putting  it  in  at  the  last;  and  some 
mash  fine  before  adding  the  seasoning,  then  heat  a  moment, 
and  dish. 

Stewed  Carrots. 

Take  four  or  five  large-sized  carrots,  wash  and  scrape 
them,  and  cut  lengthwise  into  thin  strips ;  take  three  or 
four  of  these  at  a  time,  and  cut  into  short  lengths,  in  a 
slanting  direction.  Put  them  in  a  pot,  just  cover  with 
water,  and  boil  one  or  two  hours,  or  until  perfectly  tender. 
"When  about  done,  prepare  a  sauce  by  taking  a  lump  of 
butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  even  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley;  put  these  in 
a  pan,  and  simmer  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  until  well 
incorporated;  do  not  brown.  Then  drain  from  the  carrots 
the  water  left  from  boiling,  and  turn  it  into  the  sauce ;  pour 
all  over  the  carrots  in  the  pot,  shake,  so  as  to  mix  well  with 
the  gravy,  and  dish  for  the  table. 

Boiled   Beets.  =£ 

Twist  off  the  tops,  not  too  close  to  the  beet;  if  young, 
you  may  leave  two  inches  of  the  stems,  and  when  done 
serve  these  with  the  sliced  beets.  Wash  well,  but  do  not 
break  the  little  rootlets,  else  the  sweet  juices  will  escape.  Put 
the  beets  into  a  pot,  barely  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  and 
cook  from  one  to  two  hours  or  longer,  according  to  size  and 
age.  You  may  have  to  add  boiling  water,  once  or  twice ;  but 
let  it  be  nearly  all  evaporated  when  done;  if  the  pot  is  entirely 


430  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

dry  at  the  last,  the  beets  will  be  all  the  better.  Test  as 
little  as  possible  with  the  fork,  as  much  pricking  "  bleeds  " 
them;  be  sure  they  cook  till  tender.  Then  remove  from  the 
fire,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle  drop  the  beets  into  a 
pan  of  cold  water,  slip  off  the  skins,  and  lay  in  a  dish  to 
cool.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  slice  thin,  squeeze 
out  the  juice  of  one  or  two  lemons,  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  the  beets  you  have,  add  as  much  cold  water  as  there 
is  juice,  and  pour  this  dressing  over  them;  they  must  be 
entirely  cold  before  you  add  the  lemon.  Serve  in  sauce- 
dishes,  with  plenty  of  the  juice. 

Spinach.  4£ 

You  will  need  a  good  peck  of  spinach,  for  a  family  of  five 
or  six  persons.  Look  it  all  over  very  carefully,  cutting  off 
or  throwing  out  any  imperfect  portions;  then  wash  thor- 
oughly two  or  three  times,  in  plenty  of  cold  water.  Start 
to  cooking  in  boiling  water,  and  if  young  and  tender  allow 
twenty  minutes  ;  in  winter  it  will  require  about  twice  as 
long.  When  done,  lift  it  out  with  a  couple  of  forks  placed 
side  by  side,  and  held  in  one  hand,  laying  it  on  a  plate;  this 
will  leave  any  sand  or  sediment  in  the  liquor.  Cover  the 
plate  with  another,  and  drain  well;  then  chop  the  spinach 
fine,  put  it  into  a  tureen,  and  send  to  the  table.  After 
serving,  pass  the  lemons,  cut  in  quarters.  Spinach  is  best 
served  nearly  cold;  it  is  well  therefore  to  commence  boiling 
an  hour  before  dinner. 

Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oyster. 

This  vegetable  is  rather  insipid  without  more  or  less 
seasoning.  One  of  the  most  approved  methods  of  cooking 
it,  is  stewing.  Wash  and  scrape  well,  dropping  each  plant 
into  cold  water  as  soon  as  cleaned,  to  prevent  its  being  dis- 
colored. When  all  are  prepared  put  them  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  just  cover  with  boiling  water,  lay  on  the  lid,  and  cook 


PART  in.]  VEGETABLES.  431 

till  tender.  Then  drain  off  most  of  the  liquor  that  remains, 
and  add  a  cup  of  good  milk;  boil  or  simmer  ten  minutes, 
and  either  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  with  flour  rubbed  into  it, 
or  make  a  little  thickening  of  cream  and  flour,  and  stir  it  in. 
Boil  up  once,  and  pour  it  over  slices  of  dry  toast.  Or  you 
may  add  more  milk,  heat  a  moment,  and  serve  with  oyster- 
crackers. 

If  preferred,  you  may  stew  the  plants  in  a  little  water  till 
tender,  drain  off  what  remains,  then  mash  well,  and  moisten 
with  milk  or  cream;  some  add  a  beaten  egg,  or  a  bit  of 
butter;  make  into  thin  cakes,  dip  these  in  cracker-dust  or 
fine  bread-crumbs,  and  brown  each  side  on  a  hot  griddle, 
well  oiled. 

Egg  Plant.  =jj= 

This  if  too  old,  will  be  strong  and  bitter.  Peel,  cut  in 
slices,  and  if  the  plant  is  not  very  young  and  fresh,  let 
these  lie  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  Then  steam  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes;  or  }Tou  may  put  them  into  a  porcelain 
kettle,  just  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  stew  till  tender. 
Drain  off  the  little  water  that  is  left,  and  mash  fine  or  put 
through  a  colander. 

Have  ready  some  slices  of  toast  (good  Graham  bread 
two  days  old  is  best),  and  either  crumb  very  fine  or  grind 
it.  Add  to  the  prepared  egg-plant  an  equal  quantity 
of  the  crumbs,  and  moisten  well  with  a  cup  of  cream; 
if  this  is  not  rich,  add  a  piece  of  butter.  For  two  egg- 
plants of  average  size,  about  half  a  pint  of  cream  is  nec- 
essary ;  stir  into  the  latter  two  eggs  well  beaten,  yolks 
and  whites  separate.  Then  turn  into  an  oiled  pudding  dish, 
and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  though  less  time  will 
be   required  for  a  smaller  quantity. 

Some  boil  whole  ten  minutes,  cut  off  the  end,  and 
take  out  the  seedy  part ;  add  this  to  a  dressing  of  crumbs, 
and  fill  the  cavity.  Replace  the  end,  tie  with  a  string,  and 
either  bake   or  stew. 


432  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Summer  Squashes.  :$= 

Summer  squashes  are  of  numerous  varieties,  and  the  time 
of  cooking  varies  accordingly.  One  of  the  best  but  not  the 
most  common,  is  known  as  the  "Summer  Crook-Neck";  it 
is  a  long  slim  squash,  mostly  "  neck,"  and  often  very  crooked; 
it  is  orange-colored,  and  rough  or  warty  on  the  surface. 
Fresh  from  the  garden,  these  little  squashes  stew  tender  in 
half  an  hour,  or  less  time.  When  very  young  they  need  no 
peeling,, or  removing  of  seeds.  Wash,  cut  in  thick  slices, 
and  start  in  not  too  much  boning  water;  cover,  cook  rapidly, 
and  have  them  almost  dry  when  done.  Finish  with  cream 
or  butter. 

The  little  scalloped  squash,  so  common  in  the  markets, 
should  be  well  peeled;  and  if  not  very  young,  the  seeds 
must  be  taken  out.  Then  slice  it,  and  lay  in  a  closed 
steamer — not  one  with  holes  in  the  bottom;  or  you  may  put 
it  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to 
cook  it;  if  young  and  tender,  forty  minutes  is  about  the 
time  required.  The  squash  should  be  pretty  dry  at  the 
last;  if  too  much  water  remains  lift  the  lid,  and  let  it  nearly 
all  evaporate.  When  done  remove  from  the  fire,  mash  fine, 
and  add  a  little  cream,  or  a  lump  of  fresh  butter.  Set  the 
kettle  back  on  the  stove,  heat  a  moment,  stirring  once  or 
twice,  and  then  lift  to  the  tureen;  do  not  send  to  the  table 
too  hot.  Properly  managed,  this  dish  is  excellent;  indiffer- 
ently done,  it  is  almost  worthless. 

Winter  Squashes. 

Winter  squashes  ripen  in  the  fall,  but  may  be  kept  in  a 
cool  dry  place,  nearly  or  quite  till  spring.  They  are  of 
various  colors,  shapes,  sizes,  and  qualities;  some  have  hard 
shells,  and  some  soft.  One  of  the  finest  varieties  raised,  is 
the  Buttman;  it  is  something  like  the  Hubbard,  only  much 
milder  and  finer  in  flavor;  it  keeps  well  all  winter     The 


PART  III.]  VEGETABLES.  433 

common  green  and  white  striped-neck  squash,  which  ripens 
early  in  the  fall,  is  fine  for  stewing,  and  also  for  pies;  and 
if  thoroughly  ripe,  it  bakes  well. 

Stewed  Winter  Squashes.  4£ 

If  the  squash  has  a  very  hard  shell  (as  the  Buttman  or 
Hubbard),  do  not  try  to  slice  or  peel,  but  break  it  in  pieces 
with  a  hatchet,  and  remove  the  seeds.  Then  wash,  and 
either  lay  in  a  closed  steamer,  or  stew  in  a  kettle  with 
enough  boiling  water  to  cook  soft;  it  will  require  all  of  an 
hour;  if  the  water  gets  too  low,  add  a  little,  always  boiling 
hot.  When  done  scrape  from  the  shells,  and  mash  till 
smooth.  » 

The  varieties  that  have  soft  shells,  you  may  slice  and  peel, 
removing  the  seeds;  then  cut  in  small  bits,  wash  quickly, 
and  put  into  a  stew-pan;  add  a  little  boiling  water,  and 
stew  till  thoroughly  tender.  Or  you  may  cook  in  a  closed 
steamer  till  the  pieces  are  soft,  and  then  turn  them  into  a 
porcelain  kettle.  Evaporate  all  or  nearly  all  the  water,  bj 
lifting  the  lid  a  few  moments;  then  remove  from  the  fire 
and  mash  fine ;  if  liked,  stir  in  a  little  cream  or  new  milk 
before  dishing. 

If  any  is  left  over,  you  can  make  it  into  pies  the  next 
day. 

Baked  Winter  Squashes.  4j= 

Wash,  cut  into  pieces  of  convenient  size,  and  take  ou^ 
the  seeds;  then  place  in  a  dripping-pan,  shell  downward, 
add  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till 
done.     Serve  in  the  shells. 

Pumpkin  Sauce.  4£ 

Select  good  ripe  pumpkins ;  the  "  Yankee  pumpkin," 
which  is  of  a  bright  orange  color,  is  the  best.  Peel,  slice, 
remove  the  seeds,  and  cut  into  inch  bits;  then  wash,  and 
either  steam  or  stew.     If  intended  for  pies,  cook  only  till 


434  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  HI. 

tender,  and  not  too  dry.  If  wanted  for  sauce,  stew  till 
pretty  well  done,  but  not  till  it  changes  color;  dry  out  the 
water  at  the  last.  Then  add  a  good  cup  of  cream  or  rich 
milk,  stir  well,  and  dish.     Not  a  bad  sauce,  in  winter. 

Rhubarb.  4£ 

Trim  off  the  leaves  or  their  fragments,  and  see  that  there 
are  no  worms  imbedded  in  the  stalks;  skin  the  latter,  and 
cut  into  short  bits.  Then  wash  in  cold  water,  put  into  a 
porcelain  or  granitized  iron  kettle,  and  for  every  two  quarts 
of  cut  rhubarb  allow  one  pint  of  cold  water,  and  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Stew  moderately  twenty  minutes,  and 
take  from  the  fire;  let  the  sauce  stand  in  the  kettle  till 
quite  cold. 

Never  stew  rhubarb  in  tin,  as  it  corrodes  the  metal;  and 
never  pour  it  into  a  glazed  earthen  vessel. 

Celery. 

Wash  and  trim  the  stalks,  and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water 
some  time,  before  sending  to  the  table.  Arrange  in  a  celery- 
glass,  and  serve  with  meats,  fish,  or  any  hearty  dish  of  meat 
or  vegetable  preparation.  Celery  has  a  flavor  very  much 
like  that  of  nuts. 

Young  Onions. 

Onions  if  eaten,  are  best  parboiled,  and  then  finished  in 
milk  and  water.  Young  onions  will  boil  tender  in  thirty 
minutes,  or  less  time.  Cut  off  the  rootlets  and  part  of  the 
tops,  wash  well,  and  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour;  then 
put  them  into  a  small  tin  or  porcelain  stew-pan,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  ten  minutes;  drain  this  about  all 
off,  add  a  cup  of  milk,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  or  until 
tender.  If  a  dressing  is  wanted,  drain  nearly  or  quite  dry, 
add  a  little  cream  thickened  with  flour,  heat  almost  to  boil- 
ing, and  take  from  the  fire. 


PART  in.]  VEGETABLES.  435 

Old  Onions.  4)= 

These  require  fully  twice  as  long  to  cook,  as  young  onions; 
it  will  take  an  hour  or  longer,  if  they  are  of  good  size. 

Cut  off  both  ends  close;  then  peel,  drop  into  cold  water, 
and  soak  half  an  hour.  Put  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle 
(never  into  iron,  as  it  blackens  them),  and  cover  with  boil- 
ing water;  cook  fifteen  minutes,  and  drain.  Then  add  half 
milk  and  half  boiling  water,  and  simmer  till  the  onions  are 
tender,  but  not  too  soft;  drain  again,  add  part  of  a  cup  of 
cream  thickened  with  white  flour,  stir  all  together,  and 
bring  almost  to  a  boil..  If  you  have  no  cream  use  milk, 
and  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

Lettuce.  4£ 

Select  good  fine  heads  of  lettuce,  young  and  tender. 
"Wash  well,  and  lay  in  cold  water  twenty  minutes,  before 
sending  it  to  the  table.  Serve  on  small  plates,  with  lemons 
cut  in  halves  or  quarters.  Some  sprinkle  it  with  sugar,  but 
the  lettuce  is  more  wholesome  with  simply  the  lemon  juice. 

Cucumbers.  =f£ 

It  is  hard  to  say  whether  this  much-abused  vegetable  has 
suffered  more  from  the  market-men,  or  in  the  hands  of  the 
cook.  For  every  fresh  cucumber  in  the  stalls,  there  are 
usually  fifty  stale  ones;  these,  eaten  with  salt,  pepper  and 
vinegar,  or  perhaps  fried,  are  enough  to  give  one  cholera 
morbus.  But  gathered  fresh  from  the  garden,  and  served 
with  nothing  more  hurtful  than  diluted  lemon  juice,  they 
are  as  harmless  as  a  beet. 

Select  only  those  that  are  green  and  white  (not  green  and 
yellow),  and  firm  to  the  touch;  the  others  are  stale.  Or  if 
you  live  on  a  farm,  gather  the  cucumbers  early  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  lay  them  in  a  cool  place  till  wanted.  Then  peel 
them,  removing  all  the  "green,"  and  drop  into  ice-water 
29 


436  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

half  an  hour;  this  makes  them  crisp,  as  well  as  cold.  Put 
into  the  ice- water  a  lemon  or  two,  also;  when  all  are  thor- 
oughly chilled,  slice  the  cucumbers  as  thin  as  possible,  into 
a  cold  dish,  squeeze  the  lemons  over  them,  and  add  nearly 
or  quite  as  much  ice-water  as  there  is  lemon  juice.  Stir 
all  together,  and  send  directly  to  the  table. 

Melons. 

Watermelons,  muskmelons  and  cantaloupes,  are  all  in 
bad  repute;  not  because  they  are  harmful  in  themselves, 
but  owing  to  the  fact  that  they  are  carted  and  shipped  from 
place  to  place,  and  then  eaten  stale.  And  if  you  want  to 
"die  certain" — not  composedly,  like  old  Mr.  Jones,  who 
lived  to  "  eighty-eight  and  upward,"  but  at  thirty-five  or 
younger,  and  in  the  writhing  torments  of  cholera  morbus — 
eat  stale  melons  ! 

Ordinarily,  melons  should  not  be  pulled  more  than  a  day 
before  they  are  to  be  served;  and  the  same  day  would  be 
better,  particularly  if  the  weather  is  warm.  If  you  have 
your  own  patch,  take  the  melon  from  the  vines  in  the  cool 
of  the  morning,  and  put  it  in  the  coldest  place  possible;  on 
ice,  in  ice-water,  or  on  the  bottom  of  a  cold  cellar.  If 
eaten  at  meal-time,  serve  it  before  the  rest  of  the  repast,  not 
after;  or  it  may  be  eaten  an  hour  before  dinner,  on  an 
empty  stomach. 

SOUPS. 

In  making  soups  observe  the  following  rules  : 

1.  Start  the  meat  in  cold  water;  let  it  heat  slowly,  and 
remove  the  scum  as  it  rises.  It  should  boil  long  enough  to 
extract  all  its  juices;  and  where  there  are  bones  or  joints, 
they  should  be  broken  or  crushed  before  boiling.  In  soup 
that  is  not  strained,  the  meat  must  not  be  boiled  to  rags; 
if  there  is  danger  of  this,  lift  it  out  before  the  soup  is  done. 

2.  Slice  or  chop  the  vegetables,  put  them  on  in  time  to 


PABT  III.]  SOUPS.  437 

cook  thoroughly,  and  keep  the  pot  closely  covered.  Stew 
very  slowly,  and  on  no  account  let  the  soup  scorch;  con- 
tinue the  cooking  until  the  flavors  are  all  well  blended  to- 
gether; and  if  any  filling  up  has  to  be  done,  add  the  water 
boiling  hot,  and  at  least  an  hour  before  the  soup  is  finished. 
When  cabbage,  turnips,  or  parsnips  are  used,  a  good  plan 
is  to  soak  them  in  cold  water,  half  an  hour  beforehand. 

3.  If  there  are  fragments  of  meat,  bone,  or  vegetables  in 
the  soup,  strain  it  through  a  colander  when  done  (unless 
preferred  as  it  is),  and  heat  again  to  boiling  before  dishing 
into  the  tureen.  Keep  the  latter  covered  till  the  time  of 
serving,  and  have  the  soup-plates  warm. 

4.  Good  soups  can  be  made  without  meat.  Add  to  the 
cooked  vegetables  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  and  heat  again 
before  serving. 

In  cold  weather,  a  very  good  way  when  meat  is  used,  is 
to  boil  it  the  day  before,  cooking  slowly,  and  till  the  meat 
is  ready  to  fall  to  pieces.  Then  strain  through  a  colander 
to  get  rid  of  the  bits  of  meat  and  bones,  and  set  the  liquor 
away  in  a  cold  place;  next  morning  remove  the  fat,  and  add 
the  remainder  to  the  contents  of  the  soup-kettle. 

Potato  Soup.^ 

4  quarts  cold  water. 

2       "       boiling  water. 

5  pints  quartered  or  cut  potato— not  sliced. 

2  onions — if  liked. 

3  stalks  celery,  chopped  fine. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone— fresh  joint  of  beef. 
Time — four  hours. 

Crack  the  knuckle  or  joint,  drop  it  into  the  pot,  and  cover 
with  the  cold  water;  then  put  on  a  clean,  closely-fitting  lid, 
and  heat  slowly.  As  soon  as  the  scum  rises,  remove  it  care- 
fully; and  when  the  water  begins  to  bubble,  set  the  pot 
where  it  will  simmer  gently,  as  hard  boiling  destroys  tbe 


438  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

flavors  of  the  meat.  Prepare  the  potatoes  by  paring,  wash- 
ing and  quartering  them;  or  if  large,  cut  into  smaller 
pieces,  say  an  inch  thick.  If  the  onions  are  used,  slice 
them  thin,  and  chop  fine.  At  the  end  of  two  hours  add 
the  potatoes,  onions  and  celery,  and  the  two  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  cook  slowly  an  hour  and  a  half,  keeping  the 
pot  closely  covered;  then  take  out  the  larger  bits  of  bones 
with  any  meat  adhering,  and  put  the  remaining  contents  of 
the  kettle  through  a  colander.  Keturn  the  soup  to  the  fire, 
and  cook. half  an  hour  longer;  stir  frequently,  if  there  is 
the  least  danger  of  scorching.  When  done  stir  well  from 
the  bottom,  dip  the  soup  into  a  hot  tureen,  cover,  and  send 
to  the  table. 

Or,  leave  out  the  meat,  use  less  water,  and  cook  in  two 
hours.  Finish  with  a  cup  of  good  milk,  heating  ten  minutes. 

Another. — Prepare  a  quart  of  potatoes,  cutting  them  in 
small  bits — not  slices;  drop  these  into  two  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  cook  pretty  fast,  keeping  the  pot  covered. 
Boil  nearly  or  quite  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally  to  break 
up  the  lumps;  then  add  a  pint  of  milk  or  cup  of  cream, 
thickened  with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  boil  a 
few  minutes  longer.  Serve  with  dry  toast,  or  crackers;  this 
is  rather  a  good  dish,  quickly  prepared. 

Tomato  Soup. — (Good.)^. 

Put  one  pound  of  beef  or  mutton  (or  a  ten  cent  soup- 
bone)  into  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and 
skim  well.  Add  a  sliced  onion  if  liked,  and  a  pint  of  cut 
potatoes,  and  stew  slowly  two  hours  and  a  half;  then  put 
the  meat  and  liquor  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  skim  off 
any  grease  that  rises;  add  a  quart  of  canned  or  chopped 
tomatoes,  a  spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  if  you  have  it,  and 
cook  again,  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Then  lift  out  the 
meat,  strain  the  soup  through  a  colander,  return  it  to  the 
fire  till  steaming  hot,  ahd  dish  for  the  table.     Or  you  can 


part  hi.]  soups.  439 

leave  out  the  beef  or  mutton  ;  add  a  cup  of  hot  milk  or 
cream  at  the  end,  then  heat  to  the  boil. 

Potato  and  Tomato  Soup. 

6  quarts  cold  water. 
5  pints  cut  potato. 

1  can  tomatoes. 

2  stalks  celery,  cut  fine. 
1  onion  thinly  sliced. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone,  cracked. 
Time — three  hours  and  a  half. 

Set  the  kettle  on  the  fire  with  the  meat  and  water  in  it, 
heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  skim;  simmer  gently  one  hour, 
then  add  the  celery  and  onion,  and  the  potatoes  peeled  and 
quartered,  and  cook  an  hour  and  a  half,  stirring  occasion- 
ally; put  in  the  tomatoes,  stew  an  hour  longer,  and  strain 
the  soup  through  a  colander;  skim  off  any  grease  that  rises; 
return  to  the  kettle,  heat  again  till  hot,  and  dish  into  the 
tureen.     Serve  with  bits  of  dry  toast,  or  hard  Graham  rolls. 

If  preferred,  make  without  the  soup- bone,  and  add  a  cup 
of  grated  green  corn  and  one  of  cream  before  finishing. 

Barley  Broth. 

1  gallon  cold  water. 

\  cup  barley. 

1  turnip,  peeled  and  cut  into  dice. 

1  onion,  finely  minced — this  can  be  omitted. 

1  spoonful  chopped  parsley,  if  liked. 

1  lb.   lean  mutton — the  neck. 

Time — three  hours  and  a  half. 

Use  a  soup-kettle,  if  you  have  one.  Drop  the  meat  into 
the  cold  water,  heat  slowly,  and  skim  well;  then  put  in  the 
onion  and  barley,  and  cook  two  hours  and  a  half;  then  the 
turnip  and  chopped  parsley,  and  cook  an  hour  longer.     The 


440  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

kettle  must  not  boil  fast  at  any  time;  and  if  there  is  danger 
of  scorching,  stir  once  in  a  while.  Take  out  the  meat 
before  it  is  in  rags;  and  when  the  broth  is  done,  dish  for 
the  table;  you  may  send  the  meat  also.  Serve  with  dry 
toast,  or  with  thin  cakes  of  plain  corn  bread,  baked  with  a 
good  crust. 

Barley  broth,  as  the  Scotch  people  know  it,  is  usually 
made  for  the  sick,  and  contains  only  the  meat  and  barley, 
with  perhaps  a  little  parsley,  or  other  sweet  herb. 


Barley  and  Tomato  Soup. — (Excellent)^ 

6  quarts  cold  water. 
\  pint  pearl  barley. 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes. 
4  potatoes,  medium  size. 

2  onions,  thinly  sliced,  and  chopped. 

3  tablespoonfuls  chopped  parsley. 
Ten  cent  soup-bone. 

Time — four  hours. 

Crack  the  soup-bone,  but  do  not  crush  it ;  start  it  in  the 
cold  water,  heat  gradually,  and  skim  when  it  boils.  Then 
add  the  barley  and  chopped  onions,  and  stew  gently  two 
hours  and  a  half.  At  the  end  of  that  time  skim  off  any 
grease  that  rises,  and  put  in  the  canned  tomatoes,  first 
jDressing  them  through  a  coarse  sieve  or  colander.  Then 
peel  the  potatoes,  boil  them  in  a  little  water  till  soft,  and 
mash  till  perfectly  smooth;  add  them  and  the  parsley,  and 
continue  the  cooking  an  hour  longer.  When  done  take  out 
the  meat,  and  dish  the  soup  into  a  tureen.  Serve  with  hard 
Graham  rolls,  or  dry  toast. 

This  soup  can  be  made  without  meat.  Add,  before  fin- 
ishing, a  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  and  heat  from  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes. 


part  in.]  soups.  441 

Okra  and  Tomato  Soup-4^ 

1  gallon  cold  water. 

1  quart  okras,  thinly  sliced. 

2  quarts  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced. 
1  lb.  lean  beef — or  a  cup  of  cream. 
Bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 

Time — three  hours. 
Make  this  soup  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  as  iron  blackens 
and  ruins  it.  Cover  the  meat  with  the  cold  water,  bring  it 
to  a  boil,  and  skim  well;  put  in  the  sweet  herbs,  and  cook 
slowly  one  hour.  Then  add  the  sliced  okras,  and  stew  or 
simmer  an  hour ;  skim  as  often  as  necessary,  using  a 
wooden  or  silver  spoon;  now  put  in  the  tomatoes,  and  cook 
another  hour.  Or  leave  out  the  meat,  take  three  quarts  of 
water,  and  cook  two  hours  ;  then  add  a  cup  of  cream. 
Strain  through  a  colander,  heat  again  to  boiling,  and  lift 
from  the  fire.  Serve  with  dry  toast,  or  hard  Graham 
rolls. 

Corn  and  Tomato  Soup.  4): 

1  gallon  cold  water. 

1  quart  sliced  or  canned  tomatoes. 

1  pint  grated  green  corn. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone— or  a  cup  of  cream. 

Time — three  hours  and  a  half. 
Drop  the  soup-bone  (crushed)  into  a  gallon  of  cold  water, 
skim  when  it  boils,  and  cook  slowly.  In  the  mean  time  pre- 
pare the  tomatoes;  wash  and  peel  good  ripe  ones,  and  fresh 
from  the  garden;  the  "Trophies"  are  fine.  Slice  as  thin  as 
possible,  put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  a  clean 
lid,  and  stew  moderately  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  lumps 
disappear;  stir  often  to  break  up  the  tomatoes,  and  reduce 
to  a  smooth  mass.  While  these  are  cooking,  take  good  ever- 
green corn,  the  ears  well-filled  but  not  over-ripe,  split  the 
grains  half  their  depth  by  running  a  sharp  knife  down  ih.9 


442  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

rows,  and  then  scrape  out  the  pulp,  leaving  all  the  hulls  on 
the  cob;  draw  the  knife  from  the  large  to  the  small  end  of 
the  ear.  If  the  corn  scrapes  out  easily,  it  is  not  too  old.  As 
soon  as  the  tomatoes  are  done  enough  add  the  corn,  and  lift 
from  the  fire  ;  there  should  be  one  pint  of  pulp,  or  half  as 
much  as  you  had  of  the  sliced  tomatoes.  "When  the  meat 
has  cooked  two  hours  put  in  two  or  three  small  potatoes, 
peeled  and  quartered;  and  after  another  hour's  boiling  lift 
out  the  soup-bone,  skim  ofr  the  grease  that  floats  on  top, 
pour  the  liquor  in  with  the  corn  and  tomatoes,  and  stew  or 
simmer  half  an  hour  longer,  stirring  often.  Then  strain 
through  a  colander,  heat  again  to  boiling,  and  serve  with 
dry  toast,  Graham  crackers,  or  hard  Graham  rolls. 

In  this  soup  you  may  use  canned  tomatoes  or  canned 
corn,  cooking  a  little  shorter  time.  You  can  also  make  it 
without  the  soup-bone,  putting  in  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream 
at  the  last.     Heat  all  well  together. 

Split  Pea  Soup.=f^ 

5  quarts  cold  water. 

1  quart  split  peas,  picked  over  carefully  and  washed. 

3  stalks  celery,  cut  fine. 

1  onion  (if  desired),  sliced  very  thin. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone,  cracked — or  cup  of  milk. 

Time — four  hours. 
Start  the  meat  in  half  the  cold  water,  and  the  peas  in  the 
other  half  ;  heat  slowly  to  boiling,  skim  the  meat,  and  then 
turn  the  two  together  ;  add  the  other  vegetables,  and  sim- 
mer gently  four  hours.  If  you  have  not  a  kettle  with  a 
double  bottom,  you  had  better  set  the  one  you  have  on  the 
top  of  the  stove  ;  and  unless  you  have  a  very  slow  fire,  it 
may  be  necessary  to  slide  something  under  it,  for  fear  of 
scorching.  Stir  now  and  then,  oftener  toward  the  last;  the 
least  approach  to  burning  will  utterly  ruin  the  soup  ;  and 
hard  boiling  is  almost  as  bad,  since  it  destroys  the  fine 


paet  in.]  soups.  443 

flavor  of  the  vegetables.  The  practice  of  adding  water 
(even  boiling),  is  injurious  to  all  soups,  and  especially  to 
this;  if  water  has  to  be  added,  it  must  be  put  in  boiling 
hot,  and  at  least  an  hour  before  the  soup  is  done.  Ten 
minutes  before  serving,  remove  the  pot  from  the  fire,  lift 
out  the  bones,  skim  off  all  the  grease,  and  put  the  soup 
through  a  colander.  Then  return  it  to  the  pot,  and  heat  to 
the  point  of  boiling;  stir  well  from  the  bottom  as  you  dish 
into  the  tureen,  and  also  in  serving.  Omit  the  soup-bone 
if  you  like,  and  finish  with  a  cup  of  rich  milk,  the  same  as 
in  the  last  recipe. 

Tomato  and  Pea  Soup.4£ 

Make  like  the  preceding,  except  that  you  add  a  pint  of 
raw  sliced  tomatoes,  or  the  same  measure  of  canned  ones, 
an  hour  before  the  soup  is  done ;  strain  through  a  colander, 
if  not  perfectly  smooth. 

Pea  Soup  without  Meat. 

5  quarts  cold  water. 

1  quart  split  peas,  picked  over  carefully  and  washed. 

1  carrot. 

1  turnip. 

1  onion,  if  desired. 

2  tomatoes. 

2  stalks  celery — or  one  cup  of  cream. 
Time — three  hours  and  a  half. 

Prepare  the  vegetables  by  washing,  peeling,  etc.,  cut  the 
carrot,  turnip,  and  celery  into  small  bits,  and  slice  the  to- 
matoes and  onion  very  thin.  Put  all  into  the  pot,  with  the 
peas  and  water  added,  and  bring  to  a  boil;  stew  slowly,  or 
rather  simmer,  three  hours  and  a  half,  stirring  now  and 
then.  Be  sure  the  vegetables  do  not  stick  to  the  bottom, 
or  scorch.     Then  add  the  cup  of  cream  (milk  will  do),  and 


444  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

heat  to  the  boil  before  serving.  Vegetable  soups  made 
without  meat  and  finished  with  a  little  milk  or  cream  are 
more  delicate  in  flavor  than  when  made  in  the  usual  way* 
Serve  with  dry  toast,  or  hard  Graham  rolls. 

Bean  Soup-4|= 

1  gallon  cold  water. 

2  quarts  boiling  water. 

1  quart  dried  (or  fresh)  beans. 

2  stalks  celery — or  one  onion. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone — or  a  cup  of  milk. 

Time — four  hours. 
If  the  soup  is  made  of  dry  beans,  the  little  mock-turtle 
"  soup-bean  "  is  best ;  though  the  common  "  navy  "  is  very 
good.  Crush  the  bone,  or  rather,  have  the  butcher  do  it, 
and  start  in  half  the  cold  water;  as  soon  as  this  comes  to  a 
boil,  skim.  Then,  having  picked  out  all  the  faulty  or  dis- 
colored beans,  wash  thoroughly  in  two  or  three  waters,  rub- 
bing well  with  the  hands,  and  put  them  into  a  separate  pot, 
with  the  other  half  of  the  cold  water ;  when  they  have 
reached  the  boiling  point,  turn  them  in  with  the  meat,  add 
the  celery  (or  onion)  cut  fine,  and  stew  or  simmer  slowly, 
two  hours  and  a  half.  Stir  frequently,  covering  the  pot 
closely  between  times,  and  see  that  there  is  no  settling 
or  sticking  to  the  bottom.  By  this  time  the  beans  will 
be  soft ;  now  add  the  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  cook 
half  an  hour  longer,  and  rub  through  the  colander,  being 
careful  that  you  get  all  out  except  the  dry  skins  — 
particularly  if  the  soup  is  not  quite  as  thick  as  you  would 
like  it.  Return  it  to  the  kettle,  skim  if  there  is  any  grease 
on  top,  and  cook  slowly  another  hour,  stirring  often.  When 
done  dip  out,  stirring  well  from  the  bottom,  cover  the 
tureen,  and  send  to  the  table.  The  juice  of  a  lemon? 
squeezed  in  ten  minutes  before  dishing,  is  said  to  improve 
the  flavor. 


PART  III.]  SOUPS.  445 

This  soup  may  be  made  without  meat ;  add  a  cup  of 
milk  or  cream  at  the  last,  and  heat  again  to  boiling. 
Beans  fresh  from  the  garden  (white)  make  a  soup  that  is 
milder  in  flavor  than  that  made  from  the  dried  ones,  and 
the  skins,  if  left  in,  are  less  objectionable.  This  rather 
hearty  soup  is  better  liked  in  cold  weather. 

Bean  and  Tomato  Soup. — (Good.) 

Make  the  same  as  the  last,  only  add  a  pint  of  sliced  toma- 
toes, or  an  equal  quantity  of  canned  ones,  an  hour  before 
finishing.  When  done,  strain  through  a  colander,  heat  again 
to  boiling,  and  pour  into  the  tureen. 

Turnip  Soup. 

5  quarts  cold  water — or  three,  if  bones  are  used. 

8  turnips,  medium  size. 

^  cup  rice,  picked  over  carefully  and  washed. 

Scrag   of   mutton,    one    pound — or  bones   of   cold 
quarter  of  mutton. 

Time — an  hour  and  a  half. 
If  you  take  fresh  meat,  cook  it  the  day  before.  Cut  it  in 
small  pieces,  cover  with  the  five  quarts  of  cold  water,  bring 
slowly  to  a  boil,  and  skim  well.  Stew  slowly  three  hours,  or 
until  the  meat  is  boiled  to  pieces;  then  strain  through  a 
colander,  and  set  the  liquor  away  in  a  cool  place.  Next 
morning  remove  the  fat,  before  putting  in  the  turnips  and 
rice. 

If  bones  are  used,  they  must  be  fresh  and  sweet;  put 
them  into  the  soup-kettle,  and  add  only  three  quarts  of  cold 
water.  Then  wash  and  peel  the  turnips,  and  cut  in  thick 
slices;  put  these  in  with  the  bones  (or  liquor,  if  that  is  used), 
add  the  rice,  and  stew  gently  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  till  the 
bits  of  turnip  are  soft ;  they  should  not  be  much  broken. 
You  will  need  a  double  boiler  for  this  soup;  for  if  it  scorches 
in  finishing,  it  will  be  spoiled.     When  done   lift  out  the 


446  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

bones,  and  dish  the  soup  into  a  tureen.  Serve  on  a  cold 
day,  with  baked  potatoes  and  warm  corn  bread,  the  latter 
with  a  good  crust. 

If  preferred,  make  without  meat,  and  just  before  finish- 
ing add  a  cup  of  cream,  heating  all  well  together. 

Vegetable  Soup.4|= 

1  gallon  cold  water. 

2  quarts  boiling  water. 
1  pint  chopped  potato. 

1  "  "        cabbage. 

2  carrots,  sliced  and  chopped. 
2  turnips,     " 

2  onions,      " 

2  stalks  celery,  cut  fine. 

f  cup  pearl  barley. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone — or  cup  of  cream. 

Time — four  hours. 

When  you  buy  the  soup-bone  have  it  cracked  or  partly 
broken,  but  not  crushed  to  pieces.  Four  hours  before 
dinner  put  the  meat  into  the  cold  water,  heat  slowly,  and 
skim  as  soon  as  ready.  Then  put  in  the  barley,  keep  the 
pot  closely  covered,  and  stew  gently  one  hour;  then  add 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  cook  another  hour,  and  put  in 
the  vegetables;  they  must  all  be  sliced  very  thin,  and 
chopped  fine;  it  will  take  some  time  to  prepare  them. 
When  you  add  these  put  in  the  other  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  two  hours  longer,  taking  care 
that  the  soup  does  not  scorch.  Then  lift  out  the  bone,  and 
skim  off  any  grease  there  is  on  top.  Or  you  may  leave  out 
the  meat,  and  add  a  cup  of  milk  ten  minutes  before  serv- 
ing.    You  may  do  the  same  in  the  next  recipe. 


part  in.]  soups.  447 

Vegetable  Soup. — (Good.)^ 

5  quarts  cold  water. 

1  cup  green  peas — or  one  pint  canned  ones. 

2  carrots,  washed  and  sliced. 
2  onions,  if  desired. 

6  potatoes,  medium  size. 
2  turnips,  "  " 

Sprig  of  parsley — or  other  sweet  herb. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone — or  bones  and  trimmings  of  a 

sirloin  steak. 
Time — three  hours  and  a  half. 

Put  the  bone — or  meat  with  the  fat  removed — into  a  pot 
or  soup-kettle,  add  the  cold  water,  and  place  over  a  slow 
fire;  then  prepare  the  carrots,  onions,  potatoes  and  turnips, 
slicing  them  thin,  and  chopping  fine.  As  soon  as  the  meat 
comes  to  a  boil,  skim  it,  add  the  prepared  vegetables,  and 
also  the  sweet  herbs,  cut  fine;  if  parsley  is  used,  put  it  in 
ten  minutes  before  finishing.  Cook  three  hours,  stirring 
occasionally;  then  add  the  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  also 
the  peas,  and  cook  half  an  hour.  When  done  strain  the 
soap  through  a  coarse  colander,  return  it  to  the  fire,  bring 
almost  to  a  boil,  and  dish  for  the  table.  If  there  is  g.ease 
on  top,  remove  it  before  serving. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

5  quarts  cold  water. 

2  stalks  celery. 

3  carrots,  medium  size. 

4  potatoes,       "         " 
4  turnips,         "  " 

1  parsnip,  if  you  have  it. 

Scrag  of  mutton — or  cup  of  cream. 

Time — four  hours. 

Cover  the  meat  with  the  cold  water,  and  place  over  a  slow 


448  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAKT  III. 

fire;  then  prepare  the  vegetables,  slicing  and  chopping  them 
all  fine.  Skim  when  the  meat  boils,  add  the  vegetables,  and 
stew  slowly  three  hours;  take  out  the  meat  before  it  falls  to 
pieces;  if  you  do  not  wish  to  serve  it,  you  can  make  it  into 
a  hash  or  stew  the  next  morning.  When  the  soup  is  done 
skim  off  the  grease,  strain  through  a  coarse  colander,  return 
it  to  the  fire  till  hot,  and  then  dish.  You  can  make  with- 
out the  meat,  and  finish  with  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream. 


French  Vegetable  Soup. 

1  gallon  cold  water. 

1  cup  grated  potatoes. 

1     "         "       carrots. 

1     "    turnips,  sliced  and  chopped. 

1     "     chopped  cabbage. 

1     "  "        tomatoes. 

1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 

1  large  onion,  sliced  and  chopped. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone — or  cup  of  milk  or  cream. 

Time — three  hours. 

Trim  the  meat  of  all  its  fat,  put  it  in  the  soup-kettle,  and 
add  the  cold  water;  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  skim  well. 
Then  add  the  vegetables,  except  the  tomatoes  and  parsley, 
and  simmer  slowly  two  hours  and  a  half;  stir  now  and  then. 
At  the  end  of  that  time  put  in  the  tomatoes,  and  cook  an- 
other hour;  add  the  parsley  ten  minutes  before  the  soup  is 
done.  If  the  meat  is  likely  to  boil  to  pieces,  take  it  out  be- 
fore it  is  in  rags,  and  finish  the  soup  afterward.  Serve 
without  straining. 

This  soup  inclines  to  scorch,  any  time  after  the  grated 
vegetables  are  added;  it  is  best  therefore  to  make  it  in  a 
soup-kettle,  with  a  double  bottom.  If  you  have  not  this, 
use  an  ordinary  iron  pot,  and  chop  the  carrots  and  potatoes, 
instead  of  grating  them. 


PAET  III.]  MEATS,  ETC.  449 

"  All   the   Garden  "    Soup. — ( Excellent.)^. 

6  quarts  cold  water. 

4  potatoes,  medium  size. 

4  tomatoes,        "  " 

2  onions,  "  " 

2  carrots,  "  " 

2  turnips, 

2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  parsley. 

2  stalks  celery,  if  you  have  it. 

1  cup  green  peas,  shelled — if  you  have  them. 

1     "     chopped  cabbage. 

1  small  parsnip. 

Ten  cent  soup-bone — or  cup  of  milk  or  cream. 

Time — three  hours  and  a  half. 
Crack  the  soup-bone  without  completely  crushing  it,  cover 
with  the  cold  water,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim. 
Then  prepare  the  vegetables,  slicing  and  chopping  all — save 
the  peas — till  they  are  fine;  and  as  soon  as  the  meat  is 
skimmed  add  them  (except  the  peas  and  parsley),  and  stew 
moderately  two  hours  and  a  half.  Then  strain  the  soup 
through  a  coarse  colander,  and  skim  off  any  fat  that  rises; 
return  it  to  the  kettle,  put  in  the  cup  of  green  peas,  and 
cook  another  hour  before  dishing  into  the  tureen.  Add  the 
parsley,  finely  chopped,  ten  minutes  before  finishing. 

Later  in  the  season  you  may  substitute  for  green  peas  a 
pint  of  canned  ones,  adding  them  half  an  hour  before  the 
soup  is  done.  You  may  also  leave  out  the  soup-bone,  if 
you  like,  and  finish  with  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream.  Heat  to 
boiling  after  this  is  added. 

MEATS,   Etc 

If  meat  forms  any  part  of  the  dietary,  special  attention 
should  be  paid,  first,  to  its  selection,  second,  to  the  best  method 
of  cooking  it,  and  third,  to  the  manner   of  eating   it.     In 


450  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

other  words,  to  get  the  most  nutriment  out  of  meat,  it  must 
be  fresh  and  otherwise  of  good  quality;  it  must  be  cooked 
in  such  a  way  that  its  nutritive  properties  will  not  be  lost, 
or  seriously  impaired;  and  it  should  not  be  partaken  of  too 
frequently  or  in  large  quantities.  If  it  were  eaten  not 
oftener  than  once  a  day  in  cold  weather,  and  rarely  if  ever 
in  warm  weather,  and  the  table  supplied  with  an  abundance 
of  good  home-made  Graham  bread,  with  fresh  fruits  and 
vegetables — these  taken  with  few  seasonings  or  condiments, 
and  without  the  addition  of  rich  pastries  or  desserts — we 
should  witness  less  breaking  down  in  health  at  thirty-five, 
fewer  cases  of  confirmed  dyspepsia,  and  not  so  many  calls 
for  tonics,  '  strengthening  bitters,"  mineral  waters,  and  other 
"  aids  "  to  the  digestive  organs.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the 
free  use  of  animal  foods  and  especially  meats,  taxes  the  vital 
machinery  unnecessarily,  and  wears  it  out  prematurely. 

To  aid  in  the  selection  of  foods  in  general  and  meats  in 
particular,  read  the  "  Hints  on  Marketing,"  in  the  latter 
part  of  this  book. 

The  fact  that  the  larval  form  of  the  tape-worm  is  found 
in  both  beef  and  mutton  (and  also  in  swine),  is  sufficient 
hint  to  avoid  the  use  of  rare  meats;  for  aside  from  the 
habit  of  totally  abstaining  from  animal  foods,  the  next  best 
safeguard  against  these  parasites,  is  thorough  cooking.  Even 
the  hateful  trichinae,  according  to  some  authorities,  is  not 
confined  to  swine's  flesh. 

In  cooking  meats,  never  wash  them,  unless  it  is  absolutely 
necessary;  if  your  mutton,  fish  and  fowl  require  rinsing,  do 
it  thoroughly  but  quickly,  in  cold  water,  as  all  soaking  ab- 
stracts the  juices  of  the  meat.  Cook  immediately  after 
purchasing,  or  keep  in  an  ice-chest,  or  other  very  cold  place. 

Koast,  broil  or  stew,  in  the  way  that  will  involve  the  least 
waste,  and  that  will  render  the  meat  the  most  nutritious  with 
the  least  purely  stimulating  effect.  This  latter  suggests  the 
leaving  out  of  seasonings,  in  toto.    Salt  and  pepper,  so  freely 


PART  III.]  MEATS,  ETC.  451 

used  by  most  cooks,  not  only  impair  the  quality  of  meat  by 
hardening  the  fibrin,  and  rendering  it  difficult  of  digestion, 
but  they  also  inflame  the  stomach  itself,  and  waste  the  di- 
gestive fluids,  by  stimulating  unduly  the  organs  that  secrete 
them. 

For  a  fuller  elucidation  of  this  whole  theme,  the  reader 
is  referred  to  the  articles  on  "  Salt,"  "  Meat  as  an  Article  of 
Diet,"  etc.,  in  Part  I.  Suffice  to  say,  in  this  short  para- 
graph, that  meats  if  eaten,  should  be  taken  without  season- 
ings, and  not  oftener  than  once  a  day;  in  warm  weather 
(and  warm  climates),  once  a  week  would  be  better.  And  on 
no  account  should  they  form  any  part  of  the  evening  meal; 
at  mid-day,  that  is,  at  dinner,  when  the  digestive  organs 
are  usually  at  their  maximum  of  strength,  is  the  better  time 
for  both  meats  and  vegetables. 

Fresh  meats  are  infinitely  better  than  salted — for  reasons 
that  have  elsewhere  been  given.  If  salted  meats  are  used, 
let  the  salt  be  soaked  out  as  thoroughly  as  possible,  before 
cooking;  and  in  boning,  start  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  skim 
when  the  pot  begins  to  boil,  and  cook  slowly  till  done. 
Fresh  meats  should  be  dropped  into  boiling  water  (the  scum 
removed  as  it  rises),  and  cooked  rather  slowly  till  tender.  If 
filling  up  is  needed,  add  the  water  boiling  hot;  the  amount 
necessary  to  start  with,  depends  very  much  upon  the  size 
and  shape  of  the  vessel;  a  deep,  narrow  one  with  little 
evaporating  surface,  will  require  less  water  than  one  that  is 
wide  and  shallow;  and  when  the  meat  almost  touches  the 
sides  of  the  pot,  it  will  take  very  little  water  to  cover  it. 

For  boiled  or  stewed  meats  (fresh),  the  general  directions 

are,  to  drop  into  boiling  water,  not  more  than  is  needed  to 

cook  them,  skim  at  the  proper  moment,  cover  closely,  and 

stew  or  simmer  slowly  until  a  fork  will  readily  pierce  the 

thickest  portion.     This  will  require  fifteen  to  twenty-five 

minutes  to  the  pound,  or  longer,  according  to  the  toughness 

of  the  meat  and  the  palate  of  the  eater.     Some  like  their 
30 


452  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

meats  rare;  some  want  tliem  well  done;  and  some  very  well 
done.  Mutton  usually  requires  less  time  than  beef.  There 
should  be  little  or  no  water  in  the  pot,  when  finished. 

To  roast  meats,  allow  about  the  same  time  as  for  boiling  or 
stewing;  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  if  liked 
rare;  longer,  for  well  done.  In  starting,  a  good  plan  is  to 
lay  the  roast  in  a  hot  skillet,  and  sear  the  sides  of  it  before 
putting  it  into  the  oven.  Or  if  this  is  not  convenient,  you 
may  dash  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over  it,  before  placing  in 
the  pan.  Start  without  water,  in  a  brisk  oven,  and  roast 
moderately  till  a  fork  will  go  through  the  thickest  portion 
easily.  You  can  cover,  if  the  top  browns  too  fast;  no  bast- 
ing is  needed.  If  you  use  the  "  Gem  Roaster,"  place  the 
meat  in  it  without  water,  close  the  vent,  and  roast  in  a  very 
moderate  oven,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound.  Do 
not  open  till  the  time  has  expired;  then,  if  the  meat  is  not 
sufficiently  browned,  open  the  vent,  replace  the  cover,  and 
leave  it  in  the  oven  ten  minutes. 

In  broiling,  use  no  butter  or  grease,  except  it  be  a  little 
suet  to  oil  the  gridiron;  meat  is  best  cooked  and  eaten  in 
its  own  juices;  not  soaked  in  butter,  or  other  oils.  If  you 
broil  in  a  skillet  have  it  hot,  and  use  no  grease;  turn  fre- 
quently, searing  both  surfaces  in  the  very  beginning,  and 
then  finish  in  ten  minutes;  cover  closely  between  turnings. 
The  art  of  broiling,  is  to  heat  quickly,  imprisoning  the 
juices  in  the  outset,  and  to  cook  without  scorching.  If  per- 
fectly managed,  there  will  be  very  little  grease  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  skillet,  when  done;  only  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
gravy,  which  should  be  poured  over  the  meat. 

Boasted  or  boiled  meats,  if  of  good  quality,  are  generally 
better  sliced  cold  than  warmed  over;  but  if  the  latter  plan 
is  decided  on,  do  it  as  quickly 'as  possible;  as  soon  as  the 
meat  is  thoroughly  heated  through,  remove  it  from  the  fire. 

Never  use  the  liver  or  kidney  of  an  animal;  both  are 
depurating  organs,  strictly  speaking,  and  are  therefore  filthy. 


PART  in.]  BEEF,  MUTTON    AND    LAMB.  453 

BEEF,  MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Broiled  Beef-Steak.  4£ 

In  selecting  a  beef-steak,  the  preference  is  usually  given 
to  the  porter-house  or  sirloin  steaks.  The  "  round  "  or  flank 
is  tougher,  and  may  require  pounding,  or  hacking;  if  so, 
take  a  dull  carving-knife,  too  blunt  to  cut,  and  hack  the 
meat  closely  from  end  to  end,  first  one  side  and  then  the 
other.  Or  if  you  have  a  steak-mallet,  or  heavy  hammer, 
you  may  pound  it  hard,  breaking  and  separating  the  tough 
fibers. 

"When  ready,  lay  the  steak  on  a  clean  gridiron — a  steel 
one  with  slender  bars  is  best — and  place  it  over  (not  on)  a 
bed  of  live  coals,  free  from  smoke.  Or  a  better  plan  is  said 
to  be,  to  have  the  gridiron  fitted  under  the  grate;  this  pre- 
vents the  dripping  of  grease  on  the  coals,  with  the  unpleas- 
ant odor  and  smoke.  Turn,  every  two  or  three  minutes, 
not  allowing  the  juices  to  drop,  or  to  collect  on  the  upper 
surface  of  the  meat.  A  steak  of  usual  thickness,  say  half 
to  three-quarters  of  an  inch,  should  cook  in  ten  to  twelve 
minutes.  If  properly  done  it  will  be  free  from  burnt  edges, 
or  the  flavor  of  coal  smoke,  or  burnt  drippings.  When 
sufficiently  cooked  lift  it  to  a  hot  platter,  cover  with  another, 
and  send  to  the  table. 

In  the  absence  of  the  necessary  apparatus  for  broiling, 
try  the  following  excellent  substitute:  Set  a  clean  skillet 
on  the  stove,  heat  it  hot,  and  lay  in  the  steak,  pressing  it 
smoothly  down;  no  water,  grease  or  butter,  but  simply  the 
steak.  Cover  two  or  three  minutes,  or  until  the  meat  is  well 
seared  (not  scorched)  on  one  side;  it  will  stick  fast  at  first, 
but  when  lightly  browned  it  can  be  loosened  with  a  knife. 
Then  turn  it  over,  press  it  down  smooth,  and  brown  the 
other  side  in  the  same  way;  keep  the  skillet  or  broiling-pan 
hot,  but  do  not  scorch.  Turn  frequently,  not  allowing  the 
juices  to  escape,  and  cover  closely  between  turnings.    About 


454  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

ten  minutes  is  the  time  required  for  this  method  of  broiling; 
when  done  lay  the  steak  on  a  hot  platter,  and  if  a  trifle  of 
gravy  remains  in  the  skillet,  pour  it  over  the  meat;  cover 
with  another  platter,  also  hot,  and  send  to  the  table.  If 
well  managed,  the  steak  will  be  fully  equal  to  one  carefully 
broiled  on  the  gridiron. 

Tough  Eound  Steak. 

The  method  of  preparing  and  cooking  given  in  the  last 
recipe,  ought  to  be  sufficient  for  ordinary  steak;  if  very 
tough,  the  following  is  said  to  be  a  good  plan: 

Put  on  the  stove  a  deep  skillet,  or  a  pot  with  a  wide  bot- 
tom, and  let  it  get  hot  enough  to  sear  the  meat  without 
scorching  it.  Lay  in  the  steak,  spreading  it  as  smooth  as 
possible,  and  brown  on  one  side;  then  turn,  and  do  the 
other,  covering  between  times.  Turn  frequently,  until  the 
surface  is  all  well  browned;  then  add  warm  water  enough 
to  keep  the  pot  from  going  dry,  and  stew  or  simmer,  tightly 
covered,  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Slice  in 
an  onion  if  you  like,  at  the  same  time  that  you  add  the  water. 
When  done  lay  the  steak  upon  a  hot  platter,  thicken  the 
gravy  in  the  pot  with  a  little  browned  flour,  and  pour  it 
over. 

Or  if  preferred,  you  may  chop  the  steak  fine  after  stew- 
ing it  tender,  then  thicken  the  gravy,  and  put  back  the 
meat  ;  stir  all  together,  let  it  boil  up  a  moment,  and  pour  it 
over  nicely  browned  slices  of  dry  toast.  A  little  cream 
added  to  the  flour,  wetting  it  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  stirred 
in  just  a  minute  before  lifting  the  pot  from  the  fire,  is  an 
improvement. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops.  =£ 

Trim  away  the  unnecessary  fat,  lay  the  chops  upon  a  grid- 
iron, and  place  the  latter  over  (or  under)  a  bed  of  bright 
coals,  free  from  smoke  ;  then  broil,  turning  every  minute 
or  two,  till  they  are  done  ;  five  to  eight  minutes  will  cook 


PART  III.]  BEEF,  MDTTON   AND   LAMB.  455 

thein.  Or  you  may  lay  tliem  in  a  clean  hot  skillet,  cover 
and  sear,  or  slightly  brown,  then  turn  and  sear  the  other 
side.  In  short,  cook  just  as  you  would  a  beef-steak,  only 
not  so  long  ;  they  should  be  done  in  about  eight  minutes. 

Lamb  chops  are  cooked  in  the  same  way,  and  are  consid- 
ered extra  good.  For  mutton  or  lamb  a  wire  gridiron  is 
best,  as  it  holds  the  meat  better. 

Stewed  Mutton  Chops. 

Trim  most  of  the  fat  from  two  or  three  pounds  of  chops, 
and  remove  the  bones ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  barely 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises. 
Then  slice  in  one  onion,  one  carrot,  and  two  small  turnips, 
cover  closely,  and  stew  very  slowly  one  hour  ;  add  five  or 
six  potatoes,  cut  in  small  pieces  or  sliced  rather  thick,  and 
one  or  two  sliced  tomatoes,  if  they  are  liked  ;  put  in  also  a 
stalk  of  celery  (minced),  or  a  spoonful  of  sweet  herbs  finely 
chopped,  and  cook  half  an  hour,  keeping  the  pot  well 
covered.  Then  dish  all  together,  and  serve  with  dry  toast. 
A  beef-steak,  cut  in  small  bits,  may  be  stewed  the  same 
way,  only  longer  ;  cook  till  thoroughly  tender. 

The  chops  are  very  good  stewed  with  only  an  onion,  and 
the  gravy  thickened  at  the  last  with  a  little  browned  flour 
wet  with  cream  ;  set  off  the  pot  and  remove  the  grease, 
before  thickening. 

Baked  Beef-Steak. 

Take  one  or  two  large  sirloin  steaks,  or  one  large  round 
steak — though  it  is  not  so  good — and  flatten  it  well  with  a 
rolling-pin,  or  the  side  of  a  hatchet.  If  sirloin  steaks  are 
used,  remove  the  bones  before  beating,  and  make  a  separate 
roll  for  each  steak.  When  ready,  cover  with  a  plain  dress- 
ing, made  as  follows  .  Add  to  stale  bread-crumbs,  finely 
grated,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  or  a  pinch  of  sage  if  liked  ; 
some  add  half  an  onion,  or  a  shallot  minced  fine  :  then 


456  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III, 

moisten  with  a  little  milk  or  water,  and  a  beaten  egg,  if  you 
have  it.  Make  the  dressing  not  too  wet,  and  work  it  half 
smooth,  though  very  lightly,  before  spreading.  Cover  the 
meat  well  with  it,  forming  a  layer  nearly  half  an  inch  thick; 
let  the  dressing  come  well  out  to  the  edge  of  the  steak.  Then 
roll  up  tightly,  and  tie  with  soft  twine  or  wrapping-thread  ; 
put  an  oiled  paper  (white  foolscap)  around  the  meat  roll, 
tie  again  at  each  end,  and  lay  it  in  a  small  iron  pan.  Pour 
over  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  cover  closely  with  another  pan, 
and  bake  in  a  good  oven  till  done  ;  it  will  require  at  least 
an  hour,  if  the  steak  is  large. 

See  that  the  pan  does  not  get  dry,  and  if  necessary,  add 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water ;  baste  frequently,  and 
turn  occasionally  ;  uncover  and  brown  a  little,  before  taking 
the  roll  from  the  oven.  When  done  lay  it  on  a  plate, 
thicken  the  gravy  in  the  pan  with  a  trifle  of  browned  flour, 
and  let  it  boil  up  a  moment ;  then  cut  the  outer  strings,  re- 
move the  paper,  and  pour  it  over.  Clip  the  remaining 
strings  in  several  places,  take  them  off  carefully,  and  send 
the  steak  to  the  table. 

Baked  Beef-Steak. 

Prepare  the  steak  or  steaks  as  in  the  last  recipe,  only 
leave  off  the  oiled  paper ;  tie  securely  at  each  end,  to  hold 
in  the  dressing.  If  you  have  a  little  dripping,  heat  it  hot 
in  a  frying-pan  or  skillet,  lay  the  roll  into  it,  and  brown 
well  on  all  sides  by  frequent  turnings.  Then  put  it  in  an 
iron  pan,  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water  to  the  dripping,  and 
pour  it  over  the  meat.  Cover  closely  and  bake  as  before^ 
basting  often ;  turn  several  times,  and  bake  an  hour,  or 
until  tender.  As  soon  as  done  clip  and  remove  the  strings, 
and  lay  the  rolled  steak  on  a  plate  ;  when  you  have  thick- 
ened the  gravy  in  the  pan  with  a  little  browned  flour,  and 
boiled  it  up  a  moment,  pour  it  over. 

If  you  have  no  drippings,  omit  the  browning  process  in 


PART  III.  J  BEEF,  MUTTON   AND    LAMB.  457 

the  beginning  ;  uncover  at  the  end  and  brown  moderately, 
basting  two  or  three  times  ;  then  remove  the  roll  from  the 
pan,  and  thicken  the  gravy  as  before. 

Baked  Mutton  Chops. 

Dip  the  cutlets  or  chops,  neatly  trimmed,  into  a  beaten 
egg,  and  then  in  cracker-dust ;  lay  them  in  a  hot  skillet, 
and  when  one  side  is  browned,  turn  and  brown  the  other. 
Then  have  ready  a  small  dripping-pan,  slightly  oiled,  and 
heated  in  a  hot  oven  ;  lay  the  chops  into  it,  and  bake 
quickly,  having  the  oven  very  hot ;  they  should  be  done  in 
fifteen  minutes.  When  taken  out,  add  to  the  gravy  in  the 
dish  a  little  boiling  water,  thicken  a  trine  with  browned 
flour,  heat  a  moment,  and  pour  it  over  the  meat. 

Baked  Mutton  Chops.  4£ 

Take  three  pounds  of  mutton  or  lamb  chops,  and  trim  off 
nearly  all  the  fat ;  then  peel  six  or  eight  potatoes  of  medium 
size,  and  slice  them  thin.  Mix  with  these  one  onion  thinly 
sliced,  unless  this  is  objected  to  ;  a  stalk  of  chopped  celery 
may  take  its  place,  and  a  little  parsley  finely  chopped  may 
be  added  if  desired.  Put  a  layer  of  the  meat  into  a  dish, 
and  cover  with  one  of  potatoes  ;  repeat  the  layers  in  the 
same  order,  two  or  three  of  each.  Pour  over  the  whole  a 
pint  of  boning  water,  cover  closely,  and  bake  in  a  very  mod- 
erate oven,  two  hours  and  a  half. 

Stewed  Beef-Steak. 

It  is  not  always  convenient  to  have  a  hot  oven,  for  baking 
or  roasting.  When  stewing  is  preferable,  you  may  prepare 
a  rolled  steaK  as  in  the  last  recipe  but  two  ;  and  instead  of 
baking,  put  it  into  a  pot,  add  a  pint  or  more  of  boiling 
water,  and  cook  one  hour,  or  until  tender.  Then  remove 
from  the  kettle,  lay  it  into  a  dripping-pan,  and  add  the 
water  or  gravy  in  which  it  boiled  ;  set  the  pan  in  the  oven 


458  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

if  you  have  a  hot  one,  and  baste  a  few  times  until  the  steak 
is  nicely  browned  ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  browned 
flour,  and  pour  it  over  before  serving.  Or  if  the  "hot 
oven  "  is  out  of  the  question,  you  may  simply  stew  the  meat 
till  done,  thicken  the  gravy  at  the  last,  and  pour  it  over. 

Roast  Beef. 

The  sirloin  and  rib  pieces  are  the  best  for  a  roast ;  have 
the  butcher  remove  most  of  the  bone,  and  roll  up  the  meat 
in  the  form  of  a  "round,"  fastening  it  well  together  with 
skewers.  Begin  by  putting  a  clean  skillet  or  pan  on  the 
stove,  heat  it  till  hot,  and  place  the  roast  in  it ;  when  the 
under  side  is  well  seared  and  moderately  browned,  turn 
and  brown  the  other  in  the  same  way  ;  two  or  three  minutes 
will  suffice.  Then  lay  it  in  a  dripping-pan  without  water, 
place  in  the  oven,  and  heat  rapidly  till  a  crust  is  formed 
over  the  meat,  which  will  imprison  its  juices ;  now  lower 
the  temperature,  and  keep  at  a  steady,  moderate  heat  till  it 
is  thoroughly  tender  ;  this  you  will  ascertain  by  using  the 
fork.  No  basting  will  be  needed,  and  very  little  turning  if 
the  oven  is  an  even  one,  and  properly  managed  ;  if  the 
top  heats  too  fast,  cover  it.  It  will  require  twenty  minutes 
to  the  pound,  more  or  less,  according  to  the  quality  of  the 
meat  and  the  way  in  which  it  is  to  be  served  ;  whether 
pretty  rare,  or  well  done. 

When  finished,  lift  the  roast  from  the  pan,  and  remove 
the  skewers  by  grasping  the  large  end  of  each  with  a  pair 
of  pincers,  giving  it  a  sudden  twist,  and  then  pulling  it 
out.  If  gravy  is  wanted,  pour  off  the  fat  from  the  drip- 
ping, and  drain  the  red  juices  into  the  gravy-boat ;  or  if  too 
strong,  dilute  by  pouring  into  the  pan  a  little  boiling  water 
after  removing  the  grease.  Some  thicken  with  a  trifle  of 
browned  flour,  and  boil  up  a  moment. 

Many  prefer  roast  beef  sliced  cold,  rather  than  served 
warm. 


paet  iii.]  beef,  mutton  and  lamb.  459 

Boast  Mutton. 

The  shoulder  and  chine  are  generally  used  for  roasting, 
the  leg  being  better  boiled.  Unless  you  know  your  butcher 
to  be  particularly  neat — and  even  then  perhaps — it  is  best 
to  wash  the  mutton  in  cold  or  lukewarm  water,  and  dry  it 
well  with  a  clean  cloth.  Put  the  meat  into  a  dripping-pan 
without  water,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  ;  hot  enough  to  sear 
the  surface,  top  and  bottom,  in  a  few  minutes.  Then  mod- 
erate the  heat  to  a  steady  glow,  and  cook  without  basting, 
allowing  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  ;  cover  the 
top,  if  it  browns  too  fast.  Should  the  roast  be  a  leg,  it  will 
require  more  time  in  proportion  to  its  weight ;  say  two 
hours  and  a  half  to  an  eight-pound  piece,  if  wanted  well 
done  ;  the  fork,  however,  is  the  best  test.  "When  suffi- 
ciently roasted  remove  from  the  pan,  and  drain  off  all  the 
grease ;  if  gravy  is  wanted  add  a  little  boiling  water, 
thicken  with  a  trifle  of  browned  flour,  and  boil  up  once. 
Serve  with  baked  or  mashed  potatoes,  and  stewed  turnips 
if  you  like  them. 

Should  part  be  left  over,  it  is  good  sliced  cold,  the  follow- 
ing day. 

Eoast  Lamb. 

The  fore  and  hind  quarters  are  used  for  roasting.  Wash 
in  cold  or  tepid  water,  and  dry  well  with  a  cloth.  Put  the 
meat  into  a  dripping-pan  without  water,  and  roast  the  same 
as  the  last,  only  not  quite  so  long.  It  is  excellent  sliced 
cold. 

Stuffed  Shoulder  of  Mutton. 

Kemove  the  bone  from  the  shoulder  (you  can  use  it  for 
soup  if  you  like),  and  fill  the  cavity  with  a  dressing  of  stale 
bread-crumbs,  made  as  follows:  Add  to  the  crumbs  a  pinch 
of  dry  sage,  rubbed  fine,  or  a  little  sweet  herbs;  stir  well 
together.  Then  put  in  a  spoonful  or  two  of  meat  juice,  or 
a  bit  of  fresh  butter  melted  in  warm  water,  and  mix  welL 


460  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Moisten  the  dressing  with  water  that  is  cold  or  lukewarm, 
making  it  not  very  wet,  stir  lightly,  and  fill  the  cavity  about, 
two-thirds  full;  this  will  leave  plenty  of  room  to  swell. 
Then  sew  up  the  skin  to  retain  the  dressing,  put  the  meat 
into  a  dripping-pan,  pour  over  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
place  in  a  brisk  oven;  after  ten  minutes,  moderate  the  heat 
and  roast  evenly,  allowing  about  fifteen  minutes  to  the 
pound.  Baste  now  and  then,  and  cover  if  the  top  browns 
too  fast;  test  with  a  fork  at  the  end.  When  done  take  the 
meat  from  the  pan,  drain  off  the  grease  from  the  gravy,  and 
thicken  a  little  with  browned  flour;  then  boil  up  a  moment, 
and  pour  it  into  the  gravy-boat. 

Boiled  Meats. 

Time  was,  in  the  Carolinas  and  elsewhere,  when  a  boiled 
dinner  of  "meat  and  cabbage,"  or  meat  and  some  other 
vegetable,  constituted  the  one  main  dish  at  the  dinner  table 
in  the  farm-house.  Very  little  culinary  art  was  needed;  if 
the  pot  did  not  go  dry,  and  the  victuals  were  done,  that  was 
sufficient.  The  meat,  usually  a  bit  of  salt  pork,  sometimes 
a  piece  of  beef,  was  well  washed,  dropped  into  a  pot  of  cold 
water,  and  the  latter  hung  over  the  fire,  on  a  crane  or  tram- 
mel. When  about  to  boil  it  was  carefully  skimmed;  by  and 
by  the  cabbage  went  in,  washed,  trimmed  and  quartered,  or 
the  turnips  or  other  vegetable.  When  done,  the  meat  was 
lifted  out  with  a  fork  and  laid  on  a  plate,  and  the  vegetable 
dished  separately;  or  if  the  piece  boiled  chanced  to  be 
rather  small,  it  might  occupy  a  central  place  in  the  dish  that 
held  the  vegetable.  In  the  summer  season,  string  beans* 
peas,  early  cabbage,  "  greens,"  shelled  beans,  or  other  field 
or  garden  product,  kept  the  meat  company.  This  simple 
"  boiled  dinner,"  with  plenty  of  corn  bread  and  butter,  and 
perhaps  a  glass  of  milk,  made  up  the  noon-day  meal.  It 
tasted  good,  for  two  reasons;  in  the  first  place,  plenty  of 
hard  work  made  every  one  hungry — hunger  is  the  best  of 


PART  III.]  BEEF,  MUTTON    AND    LAMB.  461 

condiments — and  in  the  next  place,  the  pot,  however  full 
(and  it  was  often  a  big  one),  rarely  held  too  much  for  all 
the  chits  that  sat  or  stood  around  the  family  board.  Or  if 
any  remained  undished,  it  was  served  at  the  "  second  table," 
for  the  four  or  five  youngsters  that  had  to  wait. 

But  the  times  have  changed;  other  methods  of  cooking, 
some  of  them  not  so  simple  or  so  healthful,  have  taken  the 
place  of  those  primitive  dishes  of  the  olden  time.  A  fine 
thing  for  the  doctors,  may  be,  but  not  so  good  for  the 
stomach.  In  these  "  progressive  "  days,  the  meats  and  vege- 
tables are  prepared  in  various  fancy  ways,  to  suit  the  tastes 
—the  "educated"  tastes,  if  you  please— of  fashionable 
people.  Nearly  everything  in  the  way  of  meats,  or  meat 
preparations,  not  roasted  or  boiled,  is  now  "braised,"  or 
"  larded,"  or  "  fricasseed,"  or  fried,  or  spiced,  or  made  into 
"  collops,"  or  "  croquettes,"  or  "  pates,"  or  salads,  or  done 
according  to  some  other  fashionable  or  foreign  method. 
These  dishes  are  a  mixture  of  animal  foods,  hard-boiled 
eggs,  vinegar,  salt,  catsup,  mustard,  black  pepper,  cayenne, 
almonds,  nutmegs,  mace,  allspice,  cloves,  capers,  anchovies, 
pungent  sauces,  jellies,  brown  sherry,  wine  sauces,  etc.,  etc. 
What  wonder  that  the  wild  man  of  the  woods,  whose  stom- 
ach is  not  yet  deadened  with  these  vile  compounds,  no 
sooner  receives  the  proffered  morsel  into  his  hungry  mouth, 
than  with  frightful  gesticulations  he  curses  the  hand  that 
gave  it,  and  declares  that  a  huge  practical  joke  has  been 
played  upon  him. 

Even  the  plain,  old-fashioned  beef  roast  yields  to  these 
modern  innovations  ;  it  finds  itself  slashed  into  with  long- 
bladed  knives,  and  completely  riddled  and  plugged  with 
strips  of  fat  pork,  the  latter  disguised,  however,  with  a  con- 
coction of  onions,  mustard,  nutmeg,  cloves,  allspice,  black 
pepper,  sage,  vinegar,  sugar — and  some  innocent  bread- 
crumbs. (What  company  they  do  keep!)  After  several 
hours  of  roasting  or  stewing,  this  fine  dish  is  garnished  with 


462  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

parsley  and  nasturtium  blossoms,  and  appears  not  only  at 
Sunday  dinners  (after  divine  service),  but  as  a  stand-by  at 
supper  and  breakfast,  for  all  the  rest  of  the  week.  This, 
friends,  is  beef  a  la  mode. 

But  to  return  from  this  digression,  out  into  the  "  ways  of 
the  world." — It  is  a  comfort  to  know  that  there  are  still 
some  people  of  plain  tastes,  who  show  a  decided  leaning 
towards  the  more  simple,  common-sense  methods  of  pre- 
paring foods.  They  relish,  for  example,  the  pearled  grains, 
whole,  cut,  crushed  or  rolled,  prepared  by  steaming  or  boil- 
ing, and  served  with  few  condiments;  and  they  eat  the 
garden  vegetables,  as  peas,  beans,  cabbage,  turnips,  etc., 
stewed  in  water  enough  to  cook  them  (the  usual  pinch  of 
salt  added),  and  finished  with  nothing  more  than  a  little 
cream  or  fresh  butter.  This  is  much  better  than  to  cook 
them  swimming  in  fat  pork,  as  some  do,  and  then  further 
impair  their  own  natural  flavors,  by  making  everything  hot 
with  seasonings. 

Meats,  simply  boiled,  as  in  the  following  recipes,  are 
plainer  and  less  greasy  than  roasts. 

Boiled  Beef  or  Mutton. 

For  those  who  still  adhere  to  the  plain  boiled  meats,  a  la 
fifty  years  ago,  the  way  is,  to  drop  the  piece  of  fresh  beef  or 
mutton  into  water,  hot  or  boiling,  remove  the  scum,  and  cook 
till  tender.  You  may  allow  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  to  the 
pound  for  mutton,  and  five  minutes  longer  for  beef;  the  mut- 
ton must  be  well  washed,  and  dried  with  a  clean  cloth  before 
cooking.  There  should  be  water  enough  (more  can  be 
added  if  necessary)  to  cook  the  meat  till  a  fork  will  easily 
enter  its  thickest  portion;  usually  there  is  a  trifle  of  liquor 
left  in  the  pot.  This  method  of  cooking  gives  you  simply 
the  plain  meat,  free  from  all  the  strong  flavors  of  the  over- 
heated and  highly  concentrated  meat  juices,  which  are 
usually  so  pronounced   in  roasted,  fried,  or  even  stewed 


PART  III.]  BEEF,  MUTTON    AND    LAMB.  463 

meats.  Cooked  in  this  way,  it  is  nutritious  rather  than 
stimulating;  and  to  the  less  perverted  palate,  it  "wears" 
better  than  the  more  savory  dishes.  Many  prefer  it  sliced 
cold,  rather  than  warm. 

Corned  Beef. 

Corned  beef  is  not  as  digestible  or  nutritious,  as  good 
fresh  beef;  before  boning,  it  should  be  soaked  several  hours 
or  over  night,  to  take  out  the  salt.  Then  cover  it  with  cold 
water,  set  the  pot  over  a  very  moderate  fire,  and  simmer 
slowly,  allowing  all  of  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound;  a  large 
piece  will  require  four  to  six  hours,  to  make  it  tender;  skim 
well,  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  and  turn  the  meat  two  or  three 
times  while  it  is  cooking.  If  liked,  add  some  carrots  and 
turnips  when  it  is  half  or  two-thirds  done;  skim  off  all  the 
grease  before  putting  them  in.  Fill  up  with  boiling  water 
as  it  is  needed,  and  have  a  moderate  supply  of  liquor  in  the 
pot  when  finished. 

A  good  way  is  to  cook  till  soft,  remove  the  bones,  then 
press  in  a  mould,  and  after  it  is  cold,  slice. 

Boiled  Meat  with  Vegetables. 

If  you  wish  the  meat  flavor  in  your  cabbage,  turnips,  etc., 
proceed  as  follows:  Lay  into  the  pot  a  piece  of  good  beef 
or  mutton,  pour  over  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  time  to 
put  on  the  vegetables.  Then  skim  off  the  grease,  take  out 
part  of  the  liquor,  and  pour  it  into  a  separate  pot;  add  to  it 
more  water  (boiling)  if  necessary,  and  put  in  the  vegetable 
(or  vegetables)  you  want;  there  should  be  just  enough  to 
cook  them  tender.  The  meat,  if  started  in  time,  should  be 
done  as  soon  as  the  other  things;  you  may  have  to  add  to  it  a 
little  boiling  water,  after  taking  out  part  of  the  liquor, 
though  the  pot  should  be  nearly  dry  when  done.  Serve  the 
meat  on  a  plate  by  itself,  and  the  vegetables  in  their  own 
separate  dishes.     Or  if  the  family  is  small,  and  the  meat  in 


464  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD,  [PAET  III. 

proportion,  you  may  put  it  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  and 
lay  the  vegetables  around  it. 

Stewed  Beef  or  Mutton. — (Pot  Boast, )# 

If  the  meat  is  beef,  and  a  rib  or  sirloin  piece,  prepare  as 
for  a  roast,  rolling  it  up  securely,  and  fastening  with  skew- 
ers; if  mutton,  wash  well  in  cold  or  tepid  water,  and  dry 
with  a  clean  cloth  before  cooking.  Put  it  into  a  pot  not  too 
large  for  the  piece — it  should  fit  rather  snugly  to  the  sides 
of  the  vessel — and  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  enough  to 
half  or  two-thirds  cover;  this  will  partially  sear  the  sur- 
face, and  prevent  the  juices  from  escaping.  Cover  with  a 
closely-fitting  lid,  heat  quickly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  as 
soon  as  the  scum  rises  remove  it.  Then  boil  rapidly  five  to 
ten  minutes,  after  which  cook  very  slowly,  stewing  rather 
than  boiling,  and  opening  the  pot  as  little  as  possible. 
When  half  or  two-thirds  done,  turn  the  meat  the  other  side 
up,  and  stew  as  before;  you  may  have  to  turn  again,  once 
or  twice;  if  beef,  it  will  require  twenty  to  twenty-five  min- 
utes to  the  pound,  to  cook  it;  the  time  may  vary  a  little,  ac- 
cording to  its  quality,  and  the  slowness  with  which  it  boils. 
Mutton  will  usually  stew  tender  in  less  time  ;  say  eighteen 
to  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  slow  boiling;  the  pot  must 
not  get  dry  before  finishing.  When  done,  the  water  should 
be  about  all  boiled  away;  if  a  little  remains,  you  may  lift 
the  lid  and  let  it  evaporate  faster. 

If  you  wish  the  meat  browned,  like  a  roast,  set  the  pot 
where  the  gravy  in  the  bottom  will  get  quite  hot  without 
burning  ;  and  when  the  under  side  is  browned  sufficiently, 
turn  it  over  and  brown  the  other;  this  is  what  is  called,  a 
"  pot  roast."  Always  start  it  to  cooking  in  good  season;  for 
if  done  a  little  early,  it  will  not  matter;  the  meat  will  keep 
hot  in  its  own  steam,  provided  the  pot  is  set  in  a  warm 
place,  and  closely  covered.  When  you  take  it  up  drain  all 
the  gravy  into  an  old  bowl  or  cup,  and  set  it  away;  when 


PART   III  ]  BEEF,  MUTTON   AND  LAMB.  465 

cold  remove  the  grease  for  oiling  your  bake-pans,  and  save 
the  gravy  in  the  bottom  to  put  into  a  hash  or  stew,  another 
day. 

The  above  method  of  cooking  meats  is  liked  by  many 
better  than  roasting  ;  they  are  less  greasy  done  in  this  way, 
and  the  flavor  is  milder.  But  one  thing  you  must  observe, 
and  that  is — to  stew  slowly. 

Cold  Sliced  Beef  or  Mutton. 

Cook  the  same  as  the  last,  and  slice  the  following  day,  by 
cutting  the  meat  smoothly  across  the  grain  or  fiber.  Or  if 
you  serve  it  warm,  cut  no  more  than  will  be  eaten  ;  then 
take  any  considerable  portion  that  is  left  over,  press  it 
well  together,  and  either  wrap  a  cloth  closely  around  it, 
or  pack  snugly  into  a  dish,  and  set  it  away,  covered,  in  a 
cold  place.  The  next  day  you  can  slice  it  for  dinner  ;  and 
many  prefer  it  to  the  warm  meat.  A  dish  of  turnips,  with 
warm  corn  bread  and  baked  potatoes,  is  a  good  accompani- 
ment. 

A  Brown"  Stew. 

What  is  known  asa"  brown  stew/'  is  about  the  same  as 
"  Stewed  Beef  or  Mutton/'  in  the  last  recipe  but  one,  except 
that  it  requires  rather  longer  cooking,  and  the  meat  is 
always  browned  at  the  end.  The  poorer  parts  of  beef  or 
mutton  will  answer  ;  and  a  piece  weighing  six  or  eight 
pounds  would  take  from  three  to  four  hours'  stewing. 
Some  like  an  onion  or  carrot  sliced  in,  after  the  meat  is 
half  cooked  ;  always  start  it  in  boiling  water,  cover  closely, 
and  stew  slowly  till  done.  If  necessary,  add  now  and  then 
a  little  water,  boiling  hot ;  it  must  all  be  out  of  the  pot  at 
the  last ;  then  brown  the  meat  in  its  own  hot  gravy.  You 
may  skim  off  the  grease  from  the  latter,  and  thicken  with  a 
little  browned  flour  ;  then  serve  it  and  the  meat  with  plain 
vegetables,  as  mashed  potato,  and  stewed  turnips  or  cab- 


466  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PAKT  IIL 

bage  ;   if  the  weather  is   cold,  add  a  dish  of   plain   corn 
bread. 

A  breast  of  lamb,  or  two  or  three  smaller  bits,  may  be 
cooked  in  the  same  way,  but  for  a  shorter  time.  A  good 
dessert  after  a  brown  stew,  is  fresh  oranges. 

Stewed  Lamb.^ 

Stew  the  same  as  beef  or  mutton,  in  the  last  recipe  but 
two,  except  that  less  time  will  suffice.  About  fifteen  min- 
utes to  the  pound  ought  to  be  long  enough,  even  if  cooked 
very  slowly.  A  shoulder  cooks  sooner  than  a  leg;  and  either 
should  be  done,  in  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours. 

Lamb  cooked  by  this  method  and  sliced  cold,  is  pro- 
nounced fine  by  competent  judges. 

Moulded  Lamb. 

Wash  the  meat  well,  and  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth ;  a 
shoulder  or  rib  piece  is  best  for  moulding.  Put  it  into  boil- 
#  ing  water,  skim  at  the  proper  moment,  and  cook  slowly  till 
it  is  ready  to  fall  from  the  bones;  it  will  take  perhaps  two 
hours.  Have  very  little  liquor  in  the  pot  when  done,  say  a 
cup  full;  then  take  out  the  meat,  remove  the  bones,  and  cut 
into  bits  about  two  inches  long;  pour  over  the  liquor,  sat- 
urating it  all  through.  Then  place  it  compactly  in  a  deep 
oval  dish,  turn  a  plate  over,  put  on  a  weight,  and  set  it  in  a 
cool  place.     Slice  cold  the  next  day. 

Calf's  head  may  be  boiled  and  moulded  in  the  same  way; 
it  will  keep  several  days  in  cold  weather. 

Potted  Beef. 

Take  good  beef,  or  a  poorer  part — something  with  bones 
in  it — start  it  in  hot  or  boiling  water,  removing  any  scum 
that  rises,  and  stew  slowly  till  the  meat  will  slip  from  the 
bones  ;  there  should  be  enough  liquor  left  to  moisten  it 
when  done.     Then  take  it  out  of  the  pot,  remove  the  bones 


PAKT  in.]  BEEF,  MUTTON   AND    LAMB.  467 

carefully,  put  the  meat  into  a  wooden  bowl,  and  chop  fine  ; 
pour  in  the  liquor,  stir  well  together,  pack  into  a  deep  dish, 
and  set  away  till  cold.  It  is  then  ready  to  slice.  Mutton 
can  be  used  instead  of  beef,  taking  a  shoulder,  or  any  part 
with  bones. 

Pressed  Beef. 

Take  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  good  lean  beef  (a  sir- 
loin steak  is  best),  and  chop  it  very  fine  ;  the  butcher  will  do 
it  for  you,  or  you  can  manage  it  yourself.  Have  ready  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  dry  bread-crumbs,  finely  grated;  moisten 
these  with  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup 
of  sweet  milk  or  cream  ;  some  add  a  teaspoonful  of  dry 
sage,  or  sweet  herbs.  You  may  use  a  weak  gravy  if  you 
prefer,  instead  of  cream  or  milk — or  you  may  take  two  eggs 
instead  of  three.  When  the  crumbs  are  prepared  work 
them  into  the  meat,  and  mix  all  well  together;  then  make 
into  a  firm  loaf  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half,  covering  it  on 
top.  Have  the  loaf  long  and  slim;  and  when  cold,  slice  as 
thin  as  possible,  the  same  as  tongue. 

This  meat  preparation  is  sometimes  called,  "loaf  beef." 
It  is  very  convenient  for  lunches,  picnics,  etc. 

Beef  Omelet. 

This  dish  is  quite  similar  to  the  last.  To  three  pounds  of 
beef  chopped  fine,  add  three  eggs  well  beaten,  six  large 
crackers  rolled  fine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  dry  sage;  or  you 
may  use  some  other  dry  or  sweet  herb,  if  preferred.  "Work 
all  well  together,  knead  into  a  loaf  or  cake,  and  lay  in  a 
small  pan;  turn  another  over  it,  after  adding  a  pint  of  water 
or  diluted  gravy  to  baste  with,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a 
quarter.  Slice  it  very  thin  when  cold,  or  the  next  day;  the 
meat  will  keep  some  time,  if  the  weather  is  cool. 
31 


468  health  in  the  household.  [part  iii. 

Boiled  Beef's  Tongue. 

Wash,  trim  and  scrape  the  tongue;  it  must  be  fresh;  then 
soak  in  cold  water  half  an  hour.  To  cook  it,  cover  with 
hot  or  boiling  water,  skim  if  there  is  need,  and  boil  very 
slowly  till  a  fork  will  go  through  the  thickest  portion  easily. 
This  will  require  two  hours  or  longer,  according  to  size. 
Add  more  water,  if  it  boils  down  too  low;  the  tongue 
should  be  pretty  well  covered,  while  it  is  cooking.  When 
done  take  it  out,  remove  the  skin,  and  set  away  in  a  cool 
place.  Slice  thin.  Cold  tongue  is  much  liked  for  sand- 
wiches; these  latter  are  best  made  with  good  home-made 
Graham  loaf. 

Beef's  Tongue  with  Tomatoes. 

Boil  the  tongue  as  in  the  last  recipe.  While  it  is  cooking 
peel  some  ripe  tomatoes,  and  slice  very  thin  into  a  porcelain 
kettle;  before  you  heat  them  stir  in  either  a  little  rolled 
cracker,  or  some  fine  dry  bread-crumbs;  just  enough  to 
thicken  the  tomatoes  when  done,  to  the  consistency  of  or- 
dinary cream.  Set  where  they  will  cook  rather  slowly, 
until  perfectly  smooth;  stir  often;  if  the  sauce  gets  too  hot 
it  will  be  spoiled.  A  few  minutes  before  finishing,  you  may 
stir  in  a  spoonful  of  cold  meat  gravy  if  you  have  it,  or  a 
small  lump  of  fresh  butter;  and  when  done,  set  where  it 
will  keep  hot.  As  soon  as  the  tongue  is  thoroughly  tender 
take  it  out,  skin  it,  lay  it  on  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  the  to- 
mato over.     Slice  as  you  serve  it. 

A  piece  of  beef  rib,  not  too  fat,  and  stewed  slowly  till 
done,  is  good  served  in  the  same  way.  If  you  have  neither 
the  crackers  nor  the  bread-crumbsf  you  may  thicken  the 
tomatoes  with  a  little  browned  flour,  wet  with  rAilk;  or  a 
cup  of  green  corn  is  excellent;  put  this  in  twen^v  minutes 
before  finishing. 


part  hi.j  beef,  mutton  and  lamb,  469 

Beef's  Heaet. 

Wash  the  heart  thoroughly,  removing  the  ventricles,  and 
soak  in  cold  water  one  hour;  then  wipe  it  dry,  and  fill  with 
a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  as  for  stuffed  chicken  or 
turkey;  you  may  mix  into  this  a  little  chopped  parsley  or 
minced  onion,  or  both  if  you  like;  and  if  you  have  a  bit  of 
fresh  suet  or  a  spoonful  of  sweet  dripping,  you  can  use  it 
instead  of  butter  in  making  the  dressing.  When  the  heart 
is  stuffed,  sew  it  up  in  a  coarse  net  or  piece  of  tarlatan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  stew  moderately  two  to  three 
hours,  or  until  tender;  turn  it  occasionally  while  cooking. 
There  should  be  a  cupful  of  liquor  in  the  pot  when  done; 
then  take  it  out,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  browned 
flour,  and  return  the  heart  to  the  pot.  Cover  closely,  and 
simmer  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  turning  it  over  as  it 
begins  to  brown.  When  finished  remove  the  net,  lay  the 
heart  on  a  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy  over. 

Another  way  is  to  stew  till  tender  before  you  stuff,  not 
forgetting  to  skim,  as  the  pot  comes  to  a  boil.  When  done 
take  out  the  heart,  moisten  the  crumbs  with  a  part  of  the 
liquor,  and  add  a  little  butter  or  chopped  suet,  and  a  pinch 
of  dry  sage;  then  fill  and  sew  up  the  heart  as  before,  lay  it 
in  a  small  dish,  add  the  rest  of  the  liquor,  and  bake, 
covered,  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven;  baste  frequently. 
If  there  is  not  enough  liquor,  put  in  a  little  boiling  water, 
and  some  cold  gravy  or  meat  juice,  if  you  have  it;  then 
thicken  at  the  last,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  heart.  You 
may  serve  warm  or  cold;  if  cold  slice  thin,  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Still  another  way  is  to  cut  the  heart  into  small  pieces 
after  it  is  well  soaked,  pour  in  cold  water  to  cover,  and 
bring  to  a  boil;  then  skim,  slice  in  an  onion  and  a  head  of 
celery,  and  stew  till  tender;  some  add  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  before  it  is  done.     There  should  be  but  a  trifle  of 


470  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

liquor  left  in  the  pot;  add  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  or  dripping, 
thicken  with  a  little  browned  flour,  boil  up  a  moment,  and 
dish  all  together. 

THE   "PORKER." 

It  would  hardly  do  to  write  a  cook-book,  and  have  noth^ 
ing  to  say  in  it  about  this  beast.  The  "  Porker  "  is  an  im- 
portant personage  in  the  history  of  the  world;  more  than 
three  thousand  years  ago,  before  Christianity  had  been 
heard  of,  he  received  marked  attention — not  from  heathen 
hands,  but  from  the  leader  of  one  of  the  most  distinguished 
nations  in  all  history,  sacred  or  profane.  By  that  distin- 
guished leader,  he  (the  porker)  was  banished  from  the  side- 
boards of  the  Jews.  How  he  managed  to  put  himself, 
head,  feet,  back-bone  and  all,  not  only  in  the  presence  of 
the  ungodly,  but  fairly  and  squarely  upon  the  tables  of 
respectable  Christians,  is  indeed  marvelous.  But  here  he 
is,  with  his  scurvy  hide,  his  tuberculated  lungs,  and  his 
ulcerated  liver,  all  full  of  scrofula;  with  his  fat  sides — the 
very  essence  of  retained  excretion — and  his  muscles  creep- 
ing with  trichinae.  Some  scores  of  families,  it  is  true,  are 
now  and  then  sent  by  these  last,  where  no  porkers  go,  and 
where  trichinae  do  not  abound.  But  what  of  it?  His 
carcass  tastes  sweet,  and  therefore  it  must  be  eaten.  "  How 
shall  we  cook  him?"  In  any  way  you  like;  you  may  take 
him  piecemeal,  or  you  may  serve  him  whole;  you  may  roast 
him,  fry  him,  boil  him,  stew  him,  scallop  him,  or  eat  him 
raw— in  Bologna  sausage;  and  if  you  die  of  trichinosis, 
another  porker  would  willingly  eat  you,  if  he  had  the  chance. 

VENISON. 

Venison  is  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  beef,  only  it  re- 
quires a  little  longer  time.  Care  should  be  taken  to  have  it  as 
fresh  as  possible,  and  well  trimmed.  Venison  steaks  may  be 
broiled  on  a  gridiron  or  seared  in  a  skillet,  the  same  as  beef, 


PART  HI.  J  VENISON.  471 

allowing  about  fifteen  minutes  to  a  steak  of  ordinary  size. 
The  haunch,  neck  and  shoulder,  are  usually  roasted  the 
same  as  beef,  except  that  most  people  think  it  necessary  to 
disguise  the  natural  flavor  of  the  meat  by  numerous  season- 
ings or  condiments,  not  to  say  wines.  The  thought  suggests 
itself,  whether  it  would  not  be  better  to  dispense  with  this 
meat  altogether,  if  it  requires  so  many  injurious  or  stimu- 
lating substances  to  make  it  palatable.  A  haunch  will  take 
from  four  to  five  hours,  according  to  size,  to  roast;  cover 
the  top  with  an  oiled  paper,  and  then  turn  a  pan  over  the 
whole,  to  keep  the  meat  from  scorching.  Roast  very  slowly, 
until  it  is  tender  through  its  thickest  part. 

The  shoulder  is  stewed,  as  well  as  roasted;  it  will  take 
fi-om  three  to  four  hours  to  cook  tender,  according  to  size. 
If  stewed,  remove  the  bones  from  the  under  side,  put  the 
meat  into  a  pot,  and  cover  with  warm  water,  not  boiling. 
Wash  well,  before  roasting  or  stewing;  and  if  cooked  by  the 
latter  method,  stew  slowly,  adding  a  little  cold  water  from 
time  to  time,  as  it  is  needed.  Reducing  the  temperature  of 
the  water  will  prevent  the  meat  from  hardening,  as  it  boils. 
There  should  be  little  if  any  liquor  left  in  the  pot,  when 
done;  after  taking  it  up,  skim  off  the  grease  from  the  gravy, 
and  pour  it  over  the  meat.  Any  that  is  left  from  a  roast  or 
stew,  may  either  be  sliced  cold  the  following  day,  or  made 
into  a  hash  the  same  as  beef. 

Venison  Pasty. 

Cut  the  venison  into  inch  bits,  cover  with  warm  water, 
skim  at  the  proper  moment,  and  stew  till  it  is  almost  tender; 
have  enough  liquor  left  to  make  the  pie  sufficiently  moist. 
When  cooked  long  enough  skim  out  the  meat,  and  stir  into 
the  liquor  a  little  white  flour  wet  with  milk  or  water,  and 
mixed  to  a  smooth  paste;  let  the  gravy  come  to  a  boil,  and 
set  it  off.  Then  take  a  dish  the  depth  of  a  common  bread- 
pan,  put  into  it  a  layer  of  the  meat,  and  follow  with  one  of 


472  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

potatoes,  peeled,  and  Gut  into  small  pieces,  less  than  half  an 
inch  thick;  have  nearly  as  much  potato  as  there  is  venison, 
laid  in  the  bottom.  Then  add  another  light  layer  of  the 
parboiled  meat;  the  pie,  before  the  crust  is  put  on,  should 
not  be  more  than  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  depth.  Pour  in 
the  thickened  gravy,  until  the  dish  is  half  or  two-thirds  full; 
then  cover  with  a  light  cream  paste  made  of  equal  parts 
sifted  Graham  and  white  flour,  and  cut  a  good  cross-slit  in 
the  center.  The  crust  should  be  half  or  three-quarters  of 
an  inch  thick.  Set  the  pie  into  a  moderate  oven  and  bake 
forty-five  minutes,  or  until  the  crust  is  well  done.  Serve 
from  the  dish. 

In  making  this  pie,  you  may  if  you  like  line  the  sides  of 
the  dish  with  the  paste,  leaving  the  bottom  uncovered;  then 
put  in  the  meat  and  potatoes,  add  the  gravy,  and  cover  as 
before. 

POULTRY. 

'  It  has  been  elsewhere  stated,  that  if  the  flesh  of  animals 
is  used  as  an  article  of  diet,  we  should  give  preference  to 
those  that  are  clean  in  the  selection  of  their  food.  The 
animals  that  live  exclusively  on  grains  and  other  vegetable 
products,  as  the  sheep  and  ox,  rank  highest  in  this  respect; 
those  that  subsist  upon  a  mixed  diet  of  animal  and  vegetable 
substances,  as  poultry  and  wild  fowl,  stand  lower;  while 
others  of  strictly  carnivorous  habits,  as  lions,  tigers,  etc.,  are 
so  far  down  in  the  scale  that  no  one  considers  them  fit  for 
human  food.  Indeed  the  carcasses  of  flesh-eating  animals 
are  so  full  of  nitrogenous  matter,  that  tney  begin  to  putrefy 
almost  as  soon  as  lif e  is  extinct;  and  the  odor  that  is  given  off 
from  their  bodies  is  strong  and  offensive,  even  in  life. 

The  ordinary  domestic  fowl  is  far  from  being  clean  in  its 
habits  of  feeding,  particularly  if  it  lives  about  the  house;  it 
helps  itself  from  the  slop-pail,  the  pig-pen,  and  other  places 
of  Questionable  cleanliness.     In  fact,  there  are  few  things 


PART  III. 


POULTRY.  473 


that  it  will  not  eat;  like  the  hog,  it  is  a  scavenger  of  not  a 
very  high  order.  The  turkey  is  perhaps  a  grade  higher, 
from  the  fact  that  it  roams  over  a  larger  territory,  and  gets 
more  grain  with  less  local  tilth.  Ducks  and  geese,  whether 
wild  or  tame,  are  any  thing  but  choice  in  their  eating; 
nothing  delights  them  more  than  to  pick  the  worms  out  of 
the  bottom  of  stagnant  pools,  where  they  lie  in  a  bed  of  slime. 

Much  of  the  poultry  in  our  markets  is  stall-fed,  before  it 
is  killed;  the  fowls  are  cooped  up  in  close  stalls  or  cages 
where  they  can  not  stir,  and  then  they  are  stuffed  with  corn 
dough  or  other  soft  materials,  as  long  as  they  can  swallow. 
In  this  unnatural  condition  they  are  soon  covered  with  thick 
layers  of  unhealthy  fat,  every  particle  of  which  is  saturated 
with  the  retained  excretions  of  their  bodies.  You  will  have 
no  difficulty  in  recognizing  them,  as  you  see  them  in  the  mar- 
kets; the  fat  is  not  a  healthy  yellow,  but  a  pale  sickly  white;  it 
lies  in  thick  pads,  under  the  skin,  extending  from  the  middle 
to  the  end  of  the  back-bone;  and  the  whole  surface  of  the 
body  looks  greasy,  filthy  and  disgusting;  none  of  that 
cleanly,  wholesome  appearance,  which  belongs  to  farm-fed 
poultry,  roaming  at  large. 

First,  then,  secure  a  fowl  that  has  not  been  stall-fed;  this 
will  often  be  hard  to  do  in  the  large  cities,  especially  about 
Christmas  time.  You  can  judge  something  of  the  age  by 
the  pin-feathers,  by  the  short  or  long  spurs  on  the  legs,  and 
also  by  the  coarse  or  fine  texture  of  the  skin;  if  the  fowl  is 
young  the  skin  will  be  easily  torn,  and  the  end  of  the  breast- 
bone soft  and  gristly.  Next,  see  that  it  has  been  recently 
killed,  and  the  dressing  properly  done;  these  things  you 
ought  to  be  able  to  know  at  sight;  if  you  do  not,  a  little 
practice  will  teach  you  ;  and  the  olfactories  will  aid  in 
the  mean  time.  If  the  chicken  or  turkey  does  not  smell 
sweet  inside,  do  not  buy  it.  True,  there  are  ways  of  "  doc- 
toring "  spoiled  birds,  with  soda,  salt,  etc. ;  but  a  fowl  that 
needs  such  attention  had  better  be  left  in  the  market,  since 


474  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

it  can  never  have  the  flavor  of  one  in  good  sound  condition; 
and  about  the  last  thing  to  make  a  dinner  of,  is  tainted 
meat,  of  whatever  kind. 

Fowls  of  every  description,  should  be  drawn,  immediately 
after  they  are  killed;  if  this  is  not  done,  the  contents  of  the 
intestinal  canal  will  be  absorbed  into  the  flesh,  and  will  of 
course  poison  it.  It  has  been  truly  said,  that  "  there  is  no 
direr  disgrace  to  our  northern  markets,  than  the  practice  of 
sending  whole  dead  fowls  to  them."  As  soon  as  drawn,  they 
should  be  thoroughly  rinsed  with  cold  water,  and  wiped  per- 
fectly dry  with  a  clean  cloth;  then  a  piece  of  fresh  charcoal 
should  be  placed  in  the  cavity  of  each,  and  they  should  be 
shipped  to  market  without  delay.  So  long  as  we  eat  rotten 
or  tainted  food  we  must  expect  putrid  fevers,  diphtheria, 
doctors'  bills,  and  death. 

KOAST    TUKKE¥.=(^ 

Select  a  young  fowl,  recently  killed,  and  one  that  has  not 
been  stall-fed;  if  those  for  sale  in  market  are  dressed,  you 
will  know  which  to  reject  (that  is,  if  they  are  not  all  of  the 
same  description),  by  the  loads  of  fat  on  the  back,  all  of 
recent  deposit,  and  of  a  pale  sickly  hue,  very  much  the 
color  of  dirty  lard. 

If  you  buy  the  day  before  cooking,  set  the  turkey  in  a 
cold  place  till  wanted;  then  singe  off  the  hairs  over  burning 
paper,  remove  the  pin-feathers  with  a  knife,  and  wash 
quickly  in  cold  water,  rinsing  very  thoroughly  inside.  Drain 
well,  while  you  are  preparing  the  dressing.  If  it  be  a  thing 
possible,  have  for  this,  good  sweet  home-made  loaf,  about 
three  days  old;  bread  that  is  a  third  or  fourth  part  sifted 
Graham,  is  the  best.  If  not  stale  the  loaf  should  be  cut  or 
torn  open,  and  dried  well  in  the  oven.  Cut  in  thin  slices, 
and  crumb  or  grate  it  fine;  if  the  crusts  are  hard,  soak  them 
separately  (after  crumbing)  in  a  little  warm  or  hot  water. 
Put  all  into  a  bowl  or  basin,  add  a  spoonful  of  dry  sage 


PAKT  in.  j  POULTRY.  475 

rubbed  fine  (more  or  less,  according  to  quantity  of  crumbs), 
and  stir  well  together;  if  sage  is  not  liked,  use  thyme  or 
any  other  herb,  as  preferred.  Then  take  a  piece  of  fresh 
sweet  butter,  say  the  size  of  a  walnut,  to  a  quart  of  crumbs; 
pour  on  a  little  hot  water  to  melt  it,  and  stir  it  in.  Some 
add  also  a  beaten  egg,  but  this  is  not  necessary;  and  some 
use  suet  finely  pulverized,  instead  of  butter;  a  chopped 
onion  may  be  added,  if  liked.  Pour  in  tepid  water,  a  little 
at  a  time,  stirring  lightly  with  a  spoon;  be  sure  you  do  not 
make  the  dressing  too  wet;  it  should  be  moist  and  flaky, 
rather  than  wet  and  sticky.  Fill  the  body  of  the  turkey, 
not  very  full,  as  the  dressing  must  have  room  to  swell;  then 
sew  up  the  vent  with  a  strong  thread,  removing  it  before 
serving.  Stuff  the  crop  in  the  same  way,  and  sew  it  up; 
there  should  be  enough  dressing  left  out  to  fill  a  small 
dish. 

Tie  the  legs  together  with  a  bit  of  cotton  twine,  and  then 
fasten  them  securely  to  the  "  pope's  nose  "  at  the  end  of  the 
back-bone.  Put  the  turkey  into  a  dripping-pan,  lay  the 
heart  and  gizzard  beside  it,  and  throw  the  liver  away;  then 
pour  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  start  to  roasting  in  a 
slow  oven;  the  heat  must  be  moderate  at  all  times,  but  very 
slow  the  first  half  hour.  Allow  three  to  four  hours  or 
longer,  according  to  the  size  of  the  turkey,  or  about  thirty 
minutes  for  every  pound;  it  will  require  all  this  time,  if  the 
oven  is  regulated  as  it  should  be;  and  if  the  fowl  is  not 
young,  another  half  hour  will  perhaps  be  needed.  To  hurry 
any  part  of  the  process,  is  to  have  a  spoiled  dinner;  baste 
frequently,  as  the  roast  progresses,  and  add  a  little  boiling 
water  from  time  to  time;  the  pan  must  not  get  dry,  or  nearly 
dry.  Turn  the  turkey  as  the  surface  browns;  and  when  it 
begins  to  harden  at  any  point,  as  on  the  legs  or  wings,  wet 
a  clean  napkin  in  warm  water,  fold  it  several  thicknesses 
and  lay  it  on  the  overheated  part. 

The  last  half  hour  you  will  have  to  be  particularly  watch- 


476  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

ful,  else  the  browning  will  go  on  too  fast.  The  turkey 
should  be  a  pale  chestnut  color  when  done.  Half  an  hour 
before  finishing,  dip  out  a  portion  of  the  dripping  and  stir 
it  into  the  remainder  of  the  dressing.  Put  the  latter  into  a 
dish  that  will  hold  it  conveniently,  smooth  the  top  with  a 
knife,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  brown  ;  if  you  have  not  two 
ovens,  place  it  on  the  grate  above  the  roast,  provided  there 
is  room  ;  if  there  is  not,  you  will  have  to  put  in  the  dressing 
after  the  turkey  is  taken  out.  When  thoroughly  tender — 
which  you  will  ascertain  by  piercing  with  a  fork — lift  the 
turkey  to  a  platter,  pour  the  dripping  into  a  bowl,  and  skim 
off  all  the  grease  ;  then  thicken  with  a  little  browned  flour 
wet  to  a  smooth  paste  with  milk  or  water — cream  is  better 
— return  the  gravy  to  the  pan,  and  let  it  boil  up  a  mo- 
ment on  top  of  the  stove. 

A  good  plan  in  a  large  family,  is  to  carve  the  turkey 
before  setting  it  on  the  table  ;  this  saves  time  in  serving- 
See  that  you  have  a  sharp  knife,  cut  across  the  grain,  par- 
ticularly in  carving  the  breast,  and  make  the  slices  very 
thin.  You  will  not  of  course  forget  the  fine  dish  of  mashed 
potatoes,  cooked  "just  right,"  and  stirred  lightly  with  a 
fork  before  dishing  into  the  tureen.  Cranberry  sauce  is 
the  proper  thing  to  have  with  roast  turkey  ;  prepare  it 
early  in  the  morning  or  the  day  before,  as  per  recipe  al- 
ready given  in  Part  II.  If  cranberries  are  not  to  be  had, 
try  canned  gooseberries,  tart  apple  sauce,  or  fresh  oranges. 

Wild  Turkey. 

The  wild  turkey  is  dressed,  washed,  stuffed  and  baked, 
precisely  like  the  domestic  fowl  of  that  name,  care  being 
taken  that  it  is  fresh  when  brought  from  the  market.  The 
flesh  is  a  little  darker,  but  richer  and  sweeter  than  that  of 
the  tame  turkey. 


FART  III.]  POULTRY.  477 

Cold  Sliced  Turkey. 

If  there  is  a  considerable  portion  of  the  turkey  left  over 
from  the  roast  of  the  previous  day,  a  good  plan  is  to  cut 
the  dark  and  white  meat  into  thin  slices,  and  serve  for  din- 
ner, with  warm  mashed  potato  and  other  plain  vegetables. 
The  cranberry  sauce,  if  there  is  any  left,  will  be  a  good  ac- 
companiment. 

Turkey  Pie.# 

Instead  of  cold  sliced  turkey,  as  in  the  last,  a  pie  may 
be  made — which  many  prefer,  even  to  the  fresh  roast.  Take 
all  the  meat,  white  and  dark,  from  the  bones,  rejecting  any 
tough  skin  or  gristle  (these  put  along  with  the  bones),  and 
cut  it  in  inch  bits,  slicing  the  hard  muscles  that  surround 
the  "drum-sticks."  Set  this  by  for  the  pie.  Then  crack 
the  bones  to  pieces,  put  them  and  the  inferior  bits  into  a 
pot,  and  cover  with  cold  water  ;  fit  on  the  lid,  and  stew 
very  slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  the  pot  should  sim- 
mer, rather  than  boil.  When  the  strength  is  all  extracted 
strain  out  the  liquor,  adding  any  gravy  left  over,  and  thick- 
en it  a  trifle  with  white  flour  wet  smooth  with  milk  or 
water  ;  return  to  the  fire,  let  it  boil  up  a  moment,  and  set  it 
off.  Then  peel  some  potatoes,  and  cut  them  in  pieces  scarcely 
an  inch  thick  ;  or  if  small,  into  quarters  ;  you  may  have 
half  or  two-thirds  the  quantity  there  is  of  meat.  Put  these 
into  a  stew-pan,  add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  parboil 
seven  to  ten  minutes ;  then  drain  perfectly  dry,  cover 
closely,  and  set  where  they  will  keep  hot.  If  cut  a  little 
smaller,  you  may  omit  the  parboiling  ;  they  will  cook  in  the 
pie  by  the  time  a  thick  crust  is  done. 

Now  fill  a  bake-dish  nearly  full,  with  the  meat  and  potato 
mixed  ;  if  there  are  a  few  crumbs  of  cold  dressing,  you 
may  put  them  in  ;  then  pour  over  the  made  gravy,  filling 
the  dish  half  or  two-thirds  full ;  if  there  is  not  quite 
enough,   add  a  little  boiling  water-     Cover  with   a  light 


478  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  I J  I. 

cream  paste,  made  as  per  recipe  given  for  meat  pies,  and 
rolled  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick  ;  secure  the 
crust  well  at  the  edges,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  cut  a  cross- 
slit  in  the  center,  two  inches  each  way.  Set  the  pie  into  a 
very  even  oven,  and  bake  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes, 
according  to  the  thickness  of  the  crust ;  if  the  latter  is  liked 
crisp  and  brittle,  rather  than  soft  and  puffy,  mix  it  a  trine 
stiffer,  roll  not  quite  so  thick,  and  keep  in  the  oven  a  little 
longer.     Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  you  bake. 

This  pie  warmed  over,  is  quite  as  good  as  at  first ;  put 
the  remnant  in  a  pan,  cover  with  another,  and  place  in  a 
hot  oven  till  well  heated  through. 

Turkey  Scallop. 

When  there  is  cold  turkey  left  over,  you  may  slice  the 
meat  pretty  thin,  cutting  it  across  the  fiber  ;  then  chop,  not 
too  fine.  You  can  mix  with  it  a  few  cold  potatoes  if  you 
like,  also  chopped,  and  add  any  small  bits  of  dressing  that 
are  left.  Prepare  a  gravy  as  in  the  last  recipe,  by  cracking 
the  bones  (putting  in  the  neck  and  other  poor  pieces),  cov- 
ering with  cold  water,  and  simmering  nearly  an  hour  ;  after 
straining  the  liquor  add  to  it  any  gravy  left  from  the  roast, 
thicken  a  trifle  with  white  flour,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  set 
off  to  cool.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  bake-pan  with  a  layer 
of  dry  bread-crumbs,  and  then  one  of  the  hashed  meat  (or 
meat  and  potato),  using  half  of  it ;  follow  with  more 
crumbs,  and  then  with  the  rest  of  the  meat.  The  dish 
should  not  be  too  full;  pour  over  the  pie  the  prepared 
gravy,  making  the  whole  quite  moist ;  add  a  little  boiling 
water,  if  the  gravy  gives  out.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  very 
fine  crumbs,  into  which  you  have  stirred  a  beaten  egg  and 
half  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream  ;  the  batter  should  be  just  stiff 
enough  to  spread  nicely  over  the  top.  Then  smooth  with  a 
knife,  invert  an  old  plate  or  clean  pie-pan  over  the  dish,  and 


PART  III. J  POULTRY.  479 

bake  thirty  minutes,  or  till  the  gravy  bubbles  up  at  the 
sides.     Brown  at  the  last,  and  serve  in  the  bake-pan. 
This  scallop  is  very  good,  but  not  equal  to  turkey  pie. 

Turkey  Stew.  4^ 

Instead  of  a  pie  or  scallop,  a  very  palatable  dish  is 
made  in  this  fashion  :  Take  the  meat  all  off  the  bones,  and 
cut  it  in  rather  small  pieces.  Simmer  the  bones  and  other 
bits,  as  in  the  last  two  recipes  ;  then  strain  out  the  liquor, 
return  it  to  the  pot,  add  the  meat,  and  any  cold  gravy  left 
over.  If  there  is  none,  a  small  bit  of  butter,  or  spoonful 
or  two  of  fresh  beef  gravy  will  answer.  Let  the  whole 
come  to  a  boil,  and  then  add  a  few  diminutive  dumplings, 
made  as  follows  :  Mix  a  light  dough,  as  for  cream  biscuits, 
pinch  off  in  very  small  bits,  and  drop  them  into  the  stew ; 
it  is  better  to  pinch,  than  to  roll  out  and  cut.  If  there  is 
not  sufficient  gravy  add  water,  boiling  hot ;  cover  the  pot 
closely,  and  cook  ten  minutes,  or  till  the  dumplings  are 
done.  Add  at  the  last  a  spoonful  or  two  of  thickening 
made  of  milk  and  flour,  stirring  it  gently  through  the  mass; 
then  put  on  the  lid,  and  boil  up  a  moment.  Dish,  and 
serve  immediately. 

Instead  of  dumplings,  bits  of  toasted  bread  may  be  laid 
over  the  stew,  three  to  five  minutes  before  it  is  taken  up. 
In  this  case,  stir  in  the  thickening  as  soon  as  the  pot  boils, 
and  then  lay  in  the  toast.  Or  you  may  put  into  a  dish  the 
slices  of  toasted  bread,  or  cold  biscuits  split  open  and 
slightly  browned  in  a  hot  oven,  and  pour  the  stew  over 
them. 

Boned  Turkey. 

Having  dressed  the  turkey,  put  it  into  a  pot  just  large 
enough  to  hold  it  conveniently,  and  add  boiling  water  to 
about  cover.  Lay  on  the  lid,  and  stew  slowly  till  very  ten- 
der ;  if  more  water  is  needed,  add  it  boiling  hot.  When 
done  take  out  the  fowl,  and  set  the  pot,  covered,  where  the 


480  HEALTH    IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAKT  HI. 

liquor  will  keep  hot  till  wanted  ;  there  should  be  less  than 
a  pint  of  it. 

After  the  turkey  is  cool  enough  to  handle  remove  the 
skin,  slip  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  with  the  fingers 
separate  the  larger  bits  into  several  pieces.  Then  fill  a  deep 
oval  dish,  mixing  the  dark  and  light  meat  together,  so  that 
in  slicing,  the  pieces  may  be  well  mottled;  place  in  such  a 
way  that  the  fibers  will  run  lengthwise  of  the  moulded  cake ; 
this  enables  you  to  cut  across  the  "  grain."  When  all  is  in, 
pour  the  hot  liquor  over  and  through  the  meat,  moistening 
the  mass  thoroughly,  but  not  drenching  it;  the  dish  must 
be  filled  considerably  above  the  level.  Cover  with  an  oval 
plate  or  platter  just  large  enough  to  fit  snugly,  set  in  a 
cool  place  and  put  on  a  weight,  as  a  heavy  flat-iron.  You 
may  slice  as  soon  as  cold,  or  the  next  day. 

Another  way  is  after  boiling,  to  cut  into  bits  an  inch  and 
a  half  or  two  inches  long;  fill  the  dish,  mixing  the  dark  and 
light  meat,  and  sprinkling  between  the  layers  a  cup  of  fine 
dry  bread-crumbs;  then  moisten  with  the  hot  liquor,  and 
mould  as  before.  Or  you  may  leave  out  the  crumbs,  stir 
into  the  liquor  (hot)  one  or  two  rolled  crackers,  pour  it  over 
the  meat,  and  mould. 

Roast  Chickens. 

Select  fowls  that  have  been  recently  killed,  and  not  stall- 
fed.  If  already  dressed,  proceed  to  singe  off  the  hairs  by 
holding  each  chicken  over  burning  paper,  or  a  bright  wood 
blaze.  If  there  are  pin-feathers,  pick  them  out  with  the 
edge  of  a  knife,  and  then  wash  the  fowls  quickly  in  cold 
water,  rinsing  well  inside.  Cut  off  and  save  the  necks; 
throw  out  the  giblets,  except  the  hearts  and  gizzards;  the 
liver  is  a  filthy,  depurating  organ  (not  quite  so  bad  as  the 
kidney),  and  should  never  be  eaten. 

Make  a  dressing  of  fine  dry  bread-crumbs,  all  of  good 
home-made  loaf;  part  Graham  is  best.     Add  to  the  crumbs 


PART  HI.  J  POULTRY.  481 

a  small  lump  of  fresh  butter,  a  little  dry  sage  (or  other 
herb,  if  preferred),  and  moisten  with  tepid  water,  stirring 
well  as  you  add  it.  Do  not  put  in  too  much  water;  have 
the  dressing  light  and  flaky,  not  wet  and  heavy.  Fill  the 
fowls  with  this,  leaving  plenty  of  room  for  the  dressing  to 
swell,  and  then  sew  up  the  vents  with  a  strong  thread;  fill 
the  crops  in  the  same  manner,  and  sew  them  up;  the 
threads  must  be  pulled  out  before  serving.  Put  the  chick- 
ens into  a  dripping-pan  the  size  to  hold  them,  add  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  and  roast  slowly,  very  slowly  the  first  half 
hour.  Baste  every  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  turning  as 
needed;  and  if  any  part  browns  too  fast,  cover  it  with  a 
clean  napkin  wet  in  warm  water,  and  folded  two  or  three 
times.  Allow  from  one  to  two  hours  for  roasting,  according 
to  size  and  age;  test  with  a  fork,  to  ascertain  when  done. 

After  the  fowls  are  in  the  oven  cut  the  giblets  into  small 
bits,  put  them  and  the  necks  into  just  enough  cold  water  to 
cover,  and  stew  moderately  till  tender.  When  the  chickens 
are  done,  take  them  out  of  the  pan  and  make  the  gravy; 
drain  the  grease  all  off  the  dripping,  and  set  the  pan  on 
the  stove ;  then  put  in  the  giblets  and  the  liquor  in  which 
they  boiled,  thicken  with  a  little  browned  flour  wet  with 
milk  or  water,  and  boil  up  a  moment. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

Take  a  young  chicken,  dressed  and  singed,  split  it  down 
the  back,  wash  quickly  in  cold  water,  and  dry  with  a  clean 
cloth.  Then  flatten  the  breast-bone  with  a  mallet,  twist 
back  the  wings,  and  place  the  fowl  skin  uppermost,  not  on 
a  gridiron,  but  in  a  small  dripping-pan;  press  it  down  as 
flat  as  possible.  Add  neither  water  nor  butter,  but  simply 
set  it  in  a  hot  oven  and  shut  the  door;  look  at  it  now  and 
then,  to  see  that  it  does  not  burn.  If  very  young,  the 
chicken  should  be  done  in  twenty  to  thirty  minutes;  if  not, 
it  may  take  double  that  time.     Should  it  brown  too  fast  on 


482  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

top,  cover  with  an  oiled  paper,  or  an  inverted  pie-pan. 
When  done,  pour  over  the  dripping  in  the  bottom  of  tne 
dish,  provided  it  is  not  scorched. 

Another  way  to  cook  spring  chickens,  is  to  cut  them  into 
joints,  roll  these  in  flour,  and  lay  them  in  a  skillet  in  which 
you  have  melted  a  spoonful  of  fresh  butter,  or  sweet  beef 
dripping;  this  must  be  hot,  before  the  chicken  is  put  in. 
Cover  closely,  turn  frequently,  and  brown  well  on  both 
sides.  Cook  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  or  till  tender; 
each  piece  should  be  nicely  browned,  but  not  burnt.  Take 
out  when  done,  and  if  gravy  is  wanted  add  a  trifle  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  thick- 
ened with  white  flour;  boil  up  just  a  moment,  and  pour  the 
gravy  over  the  chicken,  or  into  the  gravy-boat. 

Smothered  Chickens. 

Either  cut  up  two  chickens,  or  leave  them  whole.  Put 
them  into  a  pot,  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  closely, 
and  heat  very  slowly  to  boiling;  then  skim,  cover  again,  and 
stew  or  simmer  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  until  tender;  the 
water  should  all  be  evaporated  when  done.  Then  turn  the 
chickens  (or  pieces),  and  brown  them  in  their  own  gravy; 
if  there  is  not  enough  of  this,  add  half  a  spoonful  of  fresh 
butter,  or  a  little  clean  beef  dripping. 

Another  method,  not  so  easy,  because  of  the  basting,  is 
the  following  :  Split  the  chickens  down  the  back,  flatten  as 
for  broiling,  and  then  lay  them  smoothly  in  the  bottom  of  a 
dripping-pan;  add  nearly  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover 
with  another  pan  the  same  size,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven; 
cook  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  till  thoroughly  ten- 
der. Turn  them  once  or  twice,  and  baste  several  times; 
oftener,  at  the  last.  Cover  between  bastings,  and  remove 
from  the  pan  when  done;  then  add  a  little  boiling  water  to 
the  dripping,  thicken  with  browned  flour,  and  boil  up  a 
moment.     Pour  the  gravy  over  the  chickens. 


PART  IH.J  POULTKYc  483 


Stewed  Chicken. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  joints,  drop  into  a  pot,  and  cover 
with  boiling  water;  or  if  the  fowl  is  old,  with  cold  water. 
Heat  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  skim;  then  stew  gently  from  one 
to  two  hours,  or  until  tender.  Twenty  minutes  before  fin- 
ishing, add  a  few  new  potatoes  with  the  skins  slipped  off; 
or  old  ones  peeled  and  not  too  large,  will  do.  Should  more 
water  be  needed,  add  it  boiling  hot.  If  dumplings  are 
liked  make  a  light  cream  paste,  pinch  off  in  small  bits,  and 
drop  these  in  when  the  potatoes  begin  to  boil;  cover  closely, 
and  cook  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or  till  the  dumphngs 
are  done.  Then  dish  the  chicken,  potatoes  and  dumplings 
into  a  hot  tureen,  fit  on  its  lid,  and  set  where  it  will  keep 
warm;  thicken  the  gravy  in  the  pot  with  a  little  cream  an4 
flour,  let  it  boil  up  a  moment,  and  pour  it  over  the  stew. 

Instead  of  potatoes  and  dumphngs,  you  may  add  half  a 
cup  of  rice,  cooking  it  forty  to  fifty  minutes;  no  other 
thickening  will  be  needed. 

Chickens  Stewed  Whole. 

Prepare  and  stuff  two  chickens  as  for  roasting,  and  sew 
them  up  carefully;  you  can  tie  the  necks  with  clean  wrap- 
ping-thread, after  filling  the  crops.  Put  them  into  a  pot, 
add  nearly  or  quite  a  pint  of  boiling  water  (more,  if  the 
chickens  are  not  young),  cover  with  a  closely-fitting  lid, 
and  bring  very  slowly  to  a  boil.  Skim,  cover  again,  and  sim- 
mer, still  slowly,  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  till  thoroughly 
tender.  Little  if  any  filling  up  should  be  needed,  provided 
you  stew  slowly;  and  very  little  gravy  must  be  left  in  the 
pot,  when  the  fowls  are  taken  out.  Thicken  what  there  is 
with  a  trifle  of  browned  flour,  let  it  just  boil,  and  pour  it 
over  the  chickens.  If  preferred,  you  may  stew  without 
stuffing. 

32 


484  health  in  the  household.  [part  ih. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Cut  up  two  grown  chickens,  having  the  pieces  as  small 
as  possible,  drop  these  into  boiling  water,  and  stew  till 
nearly  tender;  if  the  chickens  are  old,  start  in  cold  water. 
There  should  be  a  pint  or  more  of  liquor  in  the  pot.  when 
it  is  set  off.  Then  prepare  a  light  cream  paste,  as  per 
recipe  hereafter  given  for  meat  pies;  you  may  line  the  sides 
of  the  bake-pan  or  not,  as  you  like;  or  if  it  is  deep,  you 
may  cover  with  paste  half  way  down.  The  bottom  is  better 
left  uncovered;  and  many  prefer  to  bake  in  a  shallow  dish, 
having  only  a  top  crust;  in  this  case  take  an  iron  bread-pan 
of  suitable  size,  or  one  of  granitized  iron. 

When  the  chickens  are  sufficiently  cooked  take  out  the 
pieces,  remove  the  breast-bones,  and  cut  the  breast-meat 
into  two  or  three  bits.  Put  all  in  the  pan,  laying  each  piece 
so  that  the  bones  will  not  interfere  with  the  cutting  of  the 
pie.  If  liked,  put  in  some  small  potatoes  cut  in  quarters, 
or  in  bits  an  inch  thick,  and  parboiled  ten  minutes  in  a 
very  little  water.  Then  thicken  the  liquor  in  which  the 
chickens  were  stewed,  by  stirring  in  a  trifle  of  white  flour 
wet  with  milk  or  cream;  boil  up  a  moment,  and  pour  it 
over  the  pie;  if  there  is  not  enough  of  the  gravy  to  fill  the 
dish  half  or  two-thirds  full,  add  boiling  water.  Then  lay 
on  the  top  crust,  rolled  about  half  an  inch  thick,  secure  the 
edges,  prick  well  with  a  fork,  and  cut  a  good  cross-slit  in 
the  middle  for  the  escape  of  steam.  Bake  from  thirty  to 
forty  minutes,  in  an  even  oven;  then  cool  a  little,  and  serve 
in  the  dish. 

Chicken  Scallop. 

This  should  follow  roast  chickens,  provided  the  cold  meat 
simply  sliced,  is  not  preferred.  To  make  the  scallop,  take 
the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  cut  it  in  half  inch  bits;  then 
put  the  bones  into  a  pot  with  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and 
simmer  slowly  forty  to  fifty  minutes;  if  you  have  a  beef  or 


PART  III.  I  POULTRY. 


485 


mutton  bone,  or  a  bit  of  cold  steak  sweet  and  fresh,  put 
that  in  with  the  rest.  When  all  the  strength  is  drawn  out 
of  them  strain  the  liquor,  add  any  gravy  left  over,  and 
thicken  a  trifle  with  white  flour;  then  boil  up  a  moment, 
and  lift  from  the  fire.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  dry 
bread-crumbs,  lay  in  the  bits  of  chicken,  and  a  little  cold 
chopped  potato  if  you  like,  filling  the  pan  not  quite  to  the 
top.  Then  pour  over  the  gravy,  and  finish  with  a  good 
layer  of  fine  crumbs,  into  which  you  have  whipped  a  beaten 
egg  and  a  half  a  cup  of  milk.  Bake,  covered,  in  a  moderate 
oven  half  an  hour,  browning  at  the  last. 

Chicken  Pot-Pie. 

The  chicken  pot-pie  of  forty  years  ago,  which  the  Caro- 
lina people  and  their  descendants  used  to  make  for  log- 
rollings, wool-pickings,  quiltings,  etc.,  was  after  this  fashion 
(we  whose  mothers  made  them,  have  not  forgotten  the  pro- 
cess): First,  the  chickens  were  cut  up — not  very  young 
ones,  but  "  good  fat  hens  " — and  stewed  till  nearly  tender  ; 
then  the  pieces  were  lifted  out,  and  the  liquor  saved  to 
moisten  the  pie.  The  latter  was  made  in  an  old-fashioned 
bake-kettle  or  "Dutch  oven,"  as  it  was  commonly  called; 
this  was  a  large  pot  eight  or  nine  inches  in  depth,  with  per- 
pendicular sides  and  a  horizontal  bottom;  it  stood  on  three 
legs — over  a  bed  of  live  coals  when  it  held  a  loaf  of  bread 
or  a  pot-pie,  in  process  of  baking.  At  such  times,  it  was 
covered  with  a  heavy  iron  lid  that  had  a  rim  around  it,  to 
keep  the  hot  coals  from  falling  off. 

But  to  the  pie.  The  crust  was  made  of  light  biscuit 
dough,  white  flour  (Graham  cream  paste  would  have  been 
better);  this  being  rolled  into  oval  sheets  half  or  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  was  so  placed  as  to  line  the  sides 
of  the  kettle,  and  a  portion  of  the  bottom;  the  center  was 
always  left  bare.  The  pieces  of  chicken  were  then  laid  in, 
till  the  bottom  was  well  covered  ;  these  were  followed  by 


486  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

bits  of  the  paste,  either  pinched  off,  or  rolled  and  cut  into 
squares  ;  some  added  new  potatoes,  half  as  large  as  a  hen's 
egg.  Then  came  more  chicken  and  more  dumplings,  with 
or  without  the  potatoes  ;  bits  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  were 
also  interspersed,  to  say  nothing  of  a  light  sprinkling  of 
those  "contraband"  articles,  pepper  and  salt.  One  thing 
did  not  go  in,  at  least  in  our  section  of  the  country,  viz., 
salt  pork,  or  any  kind  of  pork.  It  was  as  foreign  to  chicken 
pot-pie,  as  Bologna  sausage  to  peach  cobbler. 

After  filling  the  kettle  to  within  an  inch  and  a  half  of  the 
top,  the  liquor  that  had  been  saved  was  poured  in  ;  there 
was  enough  of  this  to  come  pretty  well  up  the  sides  of  the 
pot,  and  almost  cover  the  pie.  Next  in  order  came  the  top 
crust,  a  thick  sheet  like  the  others  ;  and  the  edges  being 
well  secured,  a  big  crOss-slit  was  made  in  the  middle,  and 
the  whole  surface  well  pricked  with  a  fork  to  prevent  blis- 
tering. The  kettle  had  now  to  be  placed  over  a  bed  of 
coals  on  the  hearth,  and  its  lid  laid  on ;  this  latter  having 
been  heated — but  not  to  redness — over  the  main  fire,  was 
covered  with  two  or  three  shovelfuls  of  bright  coals. 
Every  now  and  then  the  cook  lifted  the  lid  with  a  big 
wooden  poker,  and  turned  the  kettle  quarter  way  round,  to 
give  all  sides  a  chance  to  bake,  from  the  heat  of  the  blazing 
fire  before  which  it  stood,  and  over  which  hung  another 
dinner  pot,  suspended  from  the  crane  or  trammel.  An  iron 
tea-kettle  full  of  boiling  water,  stood  directly  in  front  of 
the  open  fire  ;  and  if  the  pie  needed  more  gravy  (always  a 
debatable  question),  the  next  time  the  lid  was  lifted  and  the 
kettle  turned,  a  little  hot  water  could  be  poured  into  it 
through  the  cross-slit  in  the  center.  In  from  forty  to  fifty 
minutes  the  crust  was  thoroughly  done,  and  the  pie  ready 
to  dish. 

In  these  latter  days  of  cook-stoves  and  kitchen  ranges, 
this  pie  is  usually  made  in  an  iron  bread-pan,  and  baked  in  the 
oven.     A  "  kettle  pie  "  is  sometimes  made  the  same  as  the 


PART  in.]  POULTRY.  487 

one  just  described,  and  cooked  by  hanging  the  pot,  covered, 
over  the  fire,  and  boiling,  or  rather  stewing  it  half  an  hour, 
till  the  paste  is  done.  It  is  better,  however,  to  omit  the 
bottom  crust  altogether,  as  it  would  be  apt  to  scorch. 

The  chicken-pie  proper,  that  fed  the  preacher  at  Quarterly 
Meeting  times,  was  somewhat  different;  it  was  made  as  fol- 
lows :  Good,  deep  pie-pans  were  lined  with  ordinary  pie- 
crust, made  pretty  short  ;  the  pieces  of  parboiled  chicken 
(young  "  spring  chicken  ")  were  laid  in,  care  being  taken  to 
place  them  so  that  in  cutting,  the  knife  would  miss  the 
bones.  Having  filled  the  dish  the  liquor  was  added,  plus 
the  pepper  and  salt  (more  contraband),  with  small  bits  of 
butter  rubbed  in  flour,  to  thicken.  Then  the  top  crust  was 
laid  on,  its  edges  well  secured  by  notching  with  the  thumb 
and  finger,  and  a  good  cross-slit  made  in  the  center.  After 
pricking  well  with  a  fork,  the  pies  were  baked  and  set  away, 
to  be  eaten  cold  for  lunch  ;  or  they  might  be  warmed 
through  for  next  day's  dinner. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Dress  two  or  three  grown  chickens,  and  stew  whole  in 
about  as  much  water  as  will  cook  them  ;  for  two  chickens 
you  might  put  in,  say  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling  water  to 
start  with.  If  more  is  nee.ded,  it  can  be  added  afterward  ; 
stew  very  slowly,  keeping  the  pot  closely  covered ;  there 
should  be  half  a  pint  of  liquor  remaining,  when  done.  It 
will  require  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half,  possibly 
longer  if  the  chickens  are  not  young,  to  cook  them  suffi- 
ciently. When  thoroughly  tender  remove  the  bones,  and 
lay  the  meat  in  a  deep  oval  dish,  placing  it  so  that  the  fibers 
will  He  all  in  one  direction,  viz.,  the  long  way  of  the  dish  ; 
for  in  slicing  the  pressed  loaf,  you  will  cut  across  it  (not 
lengthwise),  and  also  across  the  grain  or  fiber.  Mix  the 
dark  and  light  parts  well  together,  as  you  place  the  meat; 
and  when  all  is  in,  pour  the  liquor  (which  must  be  hot)  over 


488  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

and  through  it ;  the  dish  must  be  filled  considerably  more 
than  level.  Then  cover  with  an  oval  plate  or  platter  of 
suitable  size,  and  so  placed  as  to  fit  snugly  to  the  loaf  ;  put 
a  weight  on  it,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  When  thoroughly 
cold  it  is  ready  to  slice. 

Some   sprinkle  very  dry  bread-crumbs,  or  cracker-dust 
through  the  meat,  before  adding  the  liquor. 


WILD  BIKDS  AND  OTHEK  GAME. 

These  are  brought  into  our  markets  and  sold  in  almost 
every  conceivable  condition,  and  stage  of  decay.  If  the 
sportsman  and  the  "  middle  man  "  would  take  pains  to  have 
the  birds  carefully  drawn  as  soon  as  killed,  and  a  good  fresh 
lump  of  charcoal  placed  in  the  cavity  of  each,  it  would  be 
a  great  advantage  to  the  salesman,  as  well  as  a  satisfaction 
to  the  purchaser — to  say  nothing  of  the  bad  consequences 
which  follow,  in  a  sanitary  point  of  view,  from  the  use  of 
meats  that  are  in  a  state  of  semi-putrefaction.  It  is  to  be 
hoped  that  the  time  will  come,  when  the  consumer  and  pro- 
ducer will  be  brought  nearer  together;  when  provisions  of 
all  kinds  will  be  shipped  directly,  or  with  as  little  delay  as 
possible,  to  the  points  of  final  distribution.  For  the  pres- 
ent, however,  we  must  take  things  as  we  find  them. 

The  birds,  if  recently  killed  and  properly  dressed,  will 
simply  need  a  thorough  rinsing  in  pure  cold  water,  and  dry- 
ing with  a  clean  cloth.  But  if  there  is  the  slightest  suspi- 
cion that  they  are  not  perfectly  sweet,  stir  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  into  a  quart  of  cold  water,  wash  well  with  this,  and 
then  rinse,  using  ice-water  if  you  have  it.  Before  cooking, 
remove  any  shot  that  may  be  lodged  in  the  flesh,  and  cut 
away  the  bruised  or  discolored  portions.  If  you  can  not 
cook  immediately,  dry  the  birds  well  inside  after  rinsing, 
and  either  put  in  a  lump  of  fresh  charcoal  (or  a  lemon  with 
the  rind  removed),  or  fill  with  fresh-sliced  onions,  to  absorb 


PART  III.]  WILD   BIRDS   AND    OTHER    GAME.  489 

the  gases.     Then  keep  in  the  coldest  place   possible,  till 
wanted. 

Wild  Pigeons. 

These  may  be  cooked  either  by  roasting  or  stewing;  they 
are  too  tough  to  broil  well.  If  roasted,  stuff  with  a  dress- 
ing of  bread-crumbs,  as  you  would  a  chicken,  place  the 
birds  closely  together  in  a  small  dripping-pan,  and  add  a 
cup  of  warm  water  with  a  spoonful  of  fresh  dripping,  or 
butter.  Cover  with  another  pan  the  same  size,  and  roast 
slowly,  basting  often  ;  if  more  water  is  needed,  add  it  a  lit- 
tle at  a  time,  and  boiling  hot.  When  thoroughly  tender  lift 
to  a  dish,  turn  another  over  it,  and  set  where  they  will  keep 
warm;  thicken  the  gravy  in  the  pan  with  a  little  browned 
flour,  adding  a  trifle  of  boiling  water  if  necessary  ;  then 
heat  a  moment,  and  pour  it  out. 

For  stewing,  you  may  stuff  them  or  not,  as  is  convenient; 
if  stuffed,  sew  up  the  vents  carefully.  Then  put  them  into 
a  pot,  add  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  and  simmer  covered  very 
slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  till  tender  and  well  brown- 
ed; turn  them  two  or  three  times,  covering  the  pot  between 
turnings.  If  cooked  sufficiently  slowly,  no  filling  up  will  be 
needed;  but  should  water  have  to  be  added,  see  that  it  is 
boiling.  When  done  take  out  the  birds,  put  them  into  a 
hot  dish,  cover,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  keep  warm  ;  then 
thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  browned  flour,  or  cream  and 
flour,  boil  up  a  moment,  and  pour  it  over. 

Pigeons  are  sometimes  cooked  in  this  way:  Stuff  as  for 
roasting  or  stewing,  and  pack  them  into  a  wide-mouthed 
jug,  or  other  closed  vessel;  a  tin  bucket  will  do,  covered 
with  a  closely-fitting  lid.  Put  in  a  cup  of  weak  gravy,  and 
cook  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  three  hours,  or  until  tender. 
Then  dish,  thicken  the  gravy  remaining,  and  pour  it  over 
them.  This  is  called,  "  jugged "  pigeons.  Rabbits  or 
squirrels  may  be  jointed,  and  cooked  in  the  same  way;  you 
may  put  in  with  them  a  sliced  onion,  if  it  is  liked. 


490  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  in. 

Pigeon  Pie. 

dean  and  wash  the  pigeons,  cut  in  quarters,  and  stew  till 
nearly  tender;  start  them  in  boiling  water,  removing  any 
scum  that  rises.  When  done  take  them  out;  there  should 
be  a  pint  or  more  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  boiled;  thicken 
this  with  a  little  white  flour,  wet  to  a  smooth  paste  with 
milk  or  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  set  it  off.  Line  a 
bake-pan  with  light  cream  paste,  made  as  per  recipe  for 
meat-pies,  hereafter  given;  or  if  preferred,  cover  only  the 
sides  of  the  pan,  leaving  the  bottom  bare.  Then  lay  in  half 
the  birds,  adding  small  bits  of  paste,  pinched  off,  and 
dropped  in  here  and  there;  or  you  may  put  in  two  or  three 
parboiled  potatoes,  not  sliced,  but  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add 
the  rest  of  the  birds,  and  also  the  thickened  liquor;  if  there 
is  not  enough  of  this,  put  in  boiling  water;  the  pie  should 
be  more  than  half  covered  with  the  gravy.  Then  lay  on  the 
top  crust,  rolled  half  an  inch  thick,  pinch  the  edges  securely 
together,  and  cut  a  cross-slit  in  the  center.  Prick  well  with 
a  fork,  and  bake  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  or  till  the 
crust  is  done. 

Some  stew  with  the  pigeons  bits  of  lamb;  the  rib  is  best; 
have  it  cut  into  short  lengths,  and  as  you  place  the  meat  in 
the  pie,  mix  it  and  the  birds  well  together.  Or  you  may 
take  the  remnants  of  cold  lamb,  though  the  newly  cooked  is 
better. 

Quails,  Grouse,  Etc. 

The  birds  known  as  partridges,  quails,  grouse,  etc.,  are 
all  cooked  in  about  the  same  way.  First  dry-pick,  singe, 
and  cut  off  the  heads  and  feet;  then  draw,  split  down  the 
back,  and  rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  If  not  in  prime 
condition  as  to  freshness,  wash  quickly  in  soda-water  (using 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  a  quart  of  the  liquid),  then  rinse 
well,  and  dry  with  a  clean  cloth.  You  may  roast,  stew  or 
broil,  as  preferred. 


PART  in.]  WILD    BIRDS    AND    OTHER   GAME.  491 

Roasted. 
Stuff  the  birds  with  a  dressing  of  bread-crumbs,  the  same 
as  chicken;  lay  them  closely  together  in  an  iron  pan,  add  a 
cup  of  hot  water  and  a  lump  of  fresh  butter,  or  a  spoonful 
of  fresh  dripping  if  you  have  it.  Baste  frequently,  and 
cover  toward  the  last  if  there  is  need;  have  rather  a  slow 
oven,  and  cook  the  smaller  birds  forty  to  sixty  minutes,  or 
until  tender.  The  larger  ones,  as  prairie-fowls,  will  take 
from  one  to  two  hours,  according  to  age.  When  done  lift 
them  out,  add  a  little  thickening  made  of  browned  flour  and 
water — cream  is  better — and  let  the  gravy  come  to  a  boil. 
Serve  with  mashed  potato,  stewed  turnips,  or  other  plain 
vegetables;  and  have  for  dessert,  fresh  oranges,  or  cranberry 
or  other  tart  sauce. 

Stewed. 

Clean,  and  stuff  or  not,  as  it  is  convenient;  if  stuffed,  sew 
up  tight  to  keep  in  the  dressing.  Put  the  birds  into  a  pot, 
add  a  cupful  of  boning  water,  and  stew  slowly ;  turn  once 
or  twice,  as  they  cook.  Or  if  preferred,  you  may  cut  them 
into  joints  or  quarters,  put  in  water  as  before,  and  stew  very 
slowly  till  tender  ;  keep  the  pot  closely  covered.  There 
should  be  just  enough  liquor  left  for  gravy;  when  done  take 
out  the  birds,  thicken  with  a  little  browned  flour  wet  with 
milk  or  wrater,  heat  the  gravy  to  a  boil,  and  pour  it  over. 

Broiled. 
After  cleaning,  split  the  pigeons  down  the  back,  rinsing 
well,  and  drying  with  a  clean  cloth.  Then  flatten  each  with 
a  steak-pounder,  and  broil  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bed  of  clean 
coals;  it  will  take  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  to  cook  them. 
A  good  way,  since  it  saves  the  trouble  of  broiling  over  a  hot 
fire,  is  to  flatten  as  before,  lay  them  smoothly  on  the  bottom 
of  a  dripping-pan,  and  then  place  in  a  hot  oven.  They  will 
be  done  in  about  the  same  time,  and  require  no  attention 
except  to  see  that  they  do  not  burn. 


492  health  in  the  household.  [part  iil 

Quail  on  Toast. 

This  relished  titbit,  as  ordinarily  prepared,  is  simply  a 
broiled  quail  on  dry  toast,  each  plentifully  saturated  while 
hot,  with  melted  butter.  A  more  wholesome  dish — though 
too  moist  for  a  dry  lunch — is  the  following:  First  clean  and 
truss,  then  lay  (without  stuffing)  in  a  dripping-pan,  add  a 
cup  of  warm  water  or  diluted  gravy  with  a  bit  of  fresh 
butter  in  it,  and  place  in  the  oven;  baste  frequently  till 
done.  A  few  minutes  before  finishing,  get  ready  the  toast; 
take  good  home-made  Graham  loaf  two  days  old,  slice  it 
rather  thin,  and  brown  evenly  on  both  sides,  leaving  the 
bread  just  a  trifle  moist  between  the  crusted  surfaces;  then 
break  the  latter  with  a  stiff  knife  to  make  it  tender.  When 
you  have  lifted  out  the  birds  lay  them  on  the  hot  toast,  one 
to  each  slice,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  browned  flour, 
or  cream  and  flour,  and  pour  it  over. 

Prairie-Fowls. 

These  are  a  species  of  grouse,  and  are  cooked  by  roasting, 
stewing  or  broiling,  according  to  the  recipes  just  given.  Or 
you  may  stuff  them,  steam  till  tender,  and  then  brown  in 
the  oven.  Or  if  preferred,  fill  with  a  dressing,  and  stew  in  a 
tightly  closed  pot  with  very  little  water,  till  done  ;  then 
brown  ten  minutes,  basting  with  the  liquor  left  from  stewing. 
Dish  the  fowls,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  trifle  of  browned 
flour,  boil  up  a  moment,  and  pour  it  over  them.  Serve  with 
cranberry  sauce  or  other  acid  fruit,  or  follow  with  tart 
oranges  as  a  dessert. 

If  a  choice  stew  is  wanted,  take  only  the  legs,  wings  and 
breast,  stew  till  tender,  and  then  brown  in  the  oven  as 
before. 

Small  Birds. 

The  smaller  birds,  as  the  snipe,  woodcock,  etc.,  are 
dressed  and  cooked  the  same  as  partridges  or  quails  ;  if 


PART  III.]  WILD    BIRDS   AND    OTHER    GAME.  493 

broiled  on  a  gridiron,  the  latter  should  be  of  wire,  and  the 
wires  not  too  far  apart ;  they  will  broil  (or  roast)  in  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  If  roasted,  a  good  way  after 
cleaning  and  rinsing,  is  to  lay  them,  unstuffed,  into  a 
dripping-pan,  add  a  cup  of  weak  gravy — or  warm  water 
with  a  bit  of  butter — for  basting,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven. 
Then  cut  some  slices  of  good  home-made  loaf,  a  little  stale, 
and  toast  these  evenly  on  both  sides,  leaving  the  bread  a 
trifle  soft  between  its  browned  surfaces.  Five  minutes 
before  the  birds  are  done,  put  a  slice  of  toast  under  each  of 
them  ;  baste  once  or  twice,  lift  to  a  platter,  thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  little  browned  flour,  and  pour  it  over. 

Partridge  or  Quail  Pie. 

Clean  the  birds,  cut  them  in  halves  or  quarters,  and  cover 
with  boiling  water  ;  stew  slowly  till  almost  tender  ;  then 
lift  out  the  pieces,  and  leave  the  liquor  in  the  pot.  Make  a 
light  cream  paste,  as  per  recipe  hereafter  given,  and  line  a 
bake-pan  with  it,  rolling  the  crust  about  half  an  inch  thick. 
Or  if  preferred,  cover  the  sides  of  the  dish,  leaving  the 
bottom  bare  ;  then  lay  in  the  birds,  and  add  a  little  par- 
boiled potato  cut  in  small  bits,  if  you  like  them  ;  you  may 
put  in  some  pieces  of  cold  lamb,  if  you  have  it.  Pinch  off 
a  few  very  small  bits  of  the  paste,  and  drop  here  and  there 
over  the  pie  ;  these  diminutive  dumplings  should  lie  in  the 
spaces  between  the  more  prominent  pieces  of  meat,  giving 
room  to  swell.  Stir  into  the  liquor  in  the  pot  a  little  white 
flour  wet  with  milk,  cream  or  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
and  take  it  for  moistening  ;  if  there  is  not  enough  to  cover 
rather  more  than  half  of  the  pie,  put  in  boiling  water. 
Then  lay  on  the  top  crust  rolled  half  or  three-quarters  of 
an  inch  thick,  and  press  firmly  together  at  the  edges;  prick 
well  with  a  fork,  cut  a  good  cross-slit  in  the  middle,  and 
bake  with  a  moderate  heat  thirty  to  forty  minutes.  If  the 
crust  is  liked  soft,  mix  the  dough  not  very  stiff,  and  bake 


494  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

till  just  done,  in  rather  a  quick  oven.  But  if  you  prefer  it 
crisp,  mix  it  a  trine  stiff er,  and  roll  not  more  than  a  third 
of  an  inch  thick  ;  have  an  even  oven,  and  bake  a  little 
longer  ;  do  not  scorch.  This  pie  is  excellent  warmed  over. 
If  you  have  not  enough  birds  for  the  pasty,  boil  in  the 
same  or  a  separate  pot  some  pieces  of  lamb,  or  tender 
mutton  ;  the  rib  chopped  in  short  lengths,  and  trimmed  of 
most  of  its  fat,  is  good.  Or  you  may  parboil  a  young 
chicken,  or  a  rabbit  or  squirrel,  and  mix  with  the  quails. 

Squirrels  and  Rabbits. 

Squirrels  and  rabbits  are  cooked  in  the  same  way,  except 
that  rabbits  take  a  little  longer  time.  They  must  be 
dressed  with  the  utmost  care;  instruct  the  cook  also  to  sep- 
arate the  pelvic  bones,  and  remove  every  trace  of  the  lower 
intestine,  some  portions  of  which  are  apt  to  be  left.  Wash 
well,  taking  out  any  shot  that  may  be  lodged  in  the  flesh, 
and  cut  away  the  bruised  or  discolored  parts  ;  then  drop 
into  very  cold  water,  and  soak  twenty  to  thirty  minutes, 
before  cooking.     You  may  either  broil  or  stew. 

Broiled. 

If  you  broil,  see  that  the  squirrels  (or  rabbits)  are  very 
young,  and  therefore  tender.  After  soaking,  dry  well  with 
a  clean  cloth,  and  gash  them  down  the  back  through  the 
thickest  portion  ;  then  flatten  each,  place  it  on  a  gridiron, 
and  broil  over  a  bed  of  clear  coals,  turning  often.  Or  you 
may  lay  them  smooth  on  the  bottom  of  a  dripping-pan,  and 
cook  in  a  hot  oven  without  basting  ;  oil  the  pan  slightly 
with  a  little  sweet  dripping,  or  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  ;  they 
should  be  done  in  half  an  hour. 

Stewed.   . 

Having  cleaned  and  soaked  them,  cut  into  joints,  drop 
into  a  pot,  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  then  slice  in  an 


PART  III.]  WILD   BIRDS   AND    OTHER   GAME.  495 

onion,  and  stew  slowly  one  hour,  or  until  tender;  some  put 
in  a  young  chicken,  also  cut  up,  stewing  all  together.  At 
the  end  of  half  an  hour  you  may  add  a  few  potatoes,  peeled, 
and  cut  in  quarters;  and  if  liked,  some  small  bits  of  light 
paste,  after  the  potatoes  get  fairly  to  boiling.  When  all 
are  done  stir  in  a  little  cream  thickened  with  white  flour, 
boil  up  a  moment,  and  dish  for  the  table. 

Another  way,  is  to  put  into  a  wide  sauce-pan  a  spoonful 
of  dripping,  heat  it  till  hot,  and  slice  in  an  onion;  you  may 
add  if  you  like,  any  sweet  herbs,  cut  fine;  then  lay  in  a 
couple  of  rabbits  or  squirrels,  cover,  and  heat  till  they  begin 
to  brown.  Turn,  and  brown  again  slightly;  be  very  careful 
that  they  do  not  scorch;  then  add  a  cup  of  boiling  wTater, 
cover  closely,  and  stew,  or  rather  simmer  one  hour,  or  until 
tender.  If  the  water  should  get  too  low,  pour  in  a  little, 
boiling  hot.  Take  them  out  when  done,  thicken  the  gravy 
with  browned  flour,  or  cream  and  flour  wet  to  a  smooth 
paste,  boil  up  a  moment,  and  pour  it  over.  Or  you  may 
cut  into  joints,  brown  and  stew  as  before,  and  when  quite 
tender  lay  upon  slices  of  toast,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the 

whole. 

Squirrel  Pie. 

Clean  and  soak  the  squirrels,  and  cut  them  in  joints;  drop 
these  into  boiling  water,  enough  to  cover,  add  a  little 
chopped  onion  or  parsley  if  liked,  and  stew  slowly  till  about 
tender,  keeping  the  lid  on.  Then  take  out  the  meat,  leav- 
ing the  liquor  in  the  pot.  Make  a  light  cream  paste,  using 
equal  parts  of  sifted  Graham  and  white  flour,  and  line  a 
bake-pan  with  it;  or  a  better  way  is  to  cover  the  sides  only. 
Lay  in  the  squirrel,  arranging  the  pieces  conveniently  for 
cutting;  then  add  or  not,  as  you  like,  some  potato  cut  in 
bits  an  inch  thick,  and  parboiled  ten  minutes  in  a  very  little 
water.  If  you  have  some  cold  lamb  or  mutton,  you  may 
slice  and  add  it;  or  a  little  cold  beef,  young  and  tender,  and 
cut  in  small  pieces,  will  not  be  amiss.     Thicken  the  liquor 


496  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

left  from  stewing,  by  stirring  in  a  little  white  flour  wet  with 
inilk  or  cream,  an'd  bringing  to  a  boil;  there  should  be 
enough  gravy  to  cover  about  two-thirds  of  the  pie;  if  there 
is  not,  add  boiling  water — or  half -boiled  soup  if  you  have  it, 
is  better.  Then  pinch  off  some  very  small  bits  of  the  paste, 
and  drop  them  in  between  the  pieces  of  meat,  or  meat  and 
potato.  Put  on  the  top  crust,  rolling  it  half  to  three-quar- 
ters of  an  inch  thick,  secure  the  edges,  and  prick  well  with 
a  fork;  cut  a  good  cross-slit  in  the  center,  and  bake  in  an 
even  oven  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  or  till  the  crust  is 
done.     Serve  in  the  dish. 

Kabbit  pie  is  made  in  the  same  way;  it  is  milder  in  flavor 
if  part  chicken  or  lamb  is  used,  or  even  mutton.  A  rib 
piece  (of  lamb  or  mutton)  is  best;  it  may  be  stewed  with 
the  rabbits,  the  ribs  being  cut  into  short  lengths,  and  most 
of  the  fat  removed. 

Game  Pie. 

Stew  together  young  birds,  and  a  young  squirrel  if  you 
have  it,  till  all  are  two-thirds  done;  the  birds  should  be  cut 
in  halves  or  quarters,  according  to  their  size,  and  the  squir- 
rel into  joints.  Save  no  giblets,  except  the  hearts  and  giz- 
zards; cut  these  into  small  bits,  and  stew  with  the  rest; 
start  in  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  stew  rather  slowly. 
When  the  meat  is  sufficiently  cooked,  take  it  out;  there 
should  be  liquor  enough  left  in  the  pot  to  make  the  gravy; 
stir  into  this  a  little  white  flour  wet  to  a  smooth  paste  with 
milk,  cream  or  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  set  it  off. 
line  a  dish  with  light  cream  paste,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  the 
meat;  then  add  a  thin  layer  of  stale  bread-crumbs  moistened 
with  warm  milk  or  cream,  and  sprinkled  with  a  little  dry 
sage,  thyme  or  parsley,  or  a  combination  of  these  (using 
them  sparingly),  if  they  are  liked.  Put  in  the  rest  of  the 
meat,  and  two  or  three  potatoes  cut  small — not  sliced — and 
parboiled  in  a  little  water  eight  minutes;  some  like  a  few 
pinches  of  the  paste,  tucked  in  between  the  larger  pieces  of 


PART  III.]  FISH.  497 

meat;  if  the  latter  is  very  lean,  add  bits  of  butter,  rolled  in 
flour.  Now  fill  up  with  the  gravy,  and  lay  on  a  top  crust 
rolled  half  an  inch  thick;  prick  well  with  a  fork,  cut  a  large 
cross-slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
forty  minutes  ;  cover,  if  there  is  danger  of  scorching.  If 
preferred,  you  can  have  a  top  crust  only,  and  not  bake 
quite  so  long. 

FISH. 

Fish  is  not  more  wholesome  or  nutritious  than  other 
meats;  indeed,  good  beef  or  mutton  is  to  be  preferred  to 
either  "fish  or  fowl."  Fowls,  as  already  stated,  are  not  as 
clean-feeding  as  cattle  and  sheep;  and  the  fishes,  if  not  car- 
nivorous in  their  habits,  are  at  least  piscivorous,  since  they 
eat  each  other.  Their  food  is  relatively  of  a  low  grade,  and 
their  organization  the  same;  hence  their  strong  odor,  and 
the  coarse  and  unnutritious  quality  of  their  flesh.  There  is 
a  great  difference  in  the  kinds,  however,  some  (in  the  trop- 
ics) being  actually  poisonous — owing,  no  doubt,  to  the 
nature  of  the  food  they  subsist  upon.  After  a  meal  of  fish, 
or  of  certain  wild  fowls,  there  is  often  experienced  thirst  or 
f everishness,  due  of  course,  to  the  "  nonusable  "  substances 
contained  in  the  aliment,  and  which  the  system  is  in  haste 
to  get  rid  of.  On  the  other  hand,  cattle  and  sheep,  and  in- 
deed all  domestic  animals,  are  more  liable  to  be  affected 
by  disease,  than  are  any  of  the  wild  animals,  the  birds  of 
the  air,  or  the  inhabitants  of  the  great  waters,  including 
the  "vasty  deep."  It  follows,  therefore,  that  those  who 
live  upon  a  flesh  diet,  will  have  to  choose  between  evils. 

Fish  not  absolutely  fresh,  makes  very  indifferent  eating; 
in  selecting,  see  that  the  flesh  is  firm  and  hard,  the  fins  stiff, 
and  the  scales  bright;  the  gills  should  be  a  clear  red,  and 
the  eyes  not  sunken,  but  full  and  prominent. 


498  health  in  the  household.  [paet  iii. 

Boiled  Fish. 

Whatever  the  method  of  cooking,  buy  only  fresh  fish,  and 
have  them  properly  dressed.  After  removing  the  scales, 
rinse  well  in  very  cold  water;  and  if  there  is  any  dark  co- 
agulated blood  on  the  inside,  lying  along  the  back-bone, 
scrape  it  carefully  out  with  a  knife,  and  rinse  again  thor- 
oughly. 

To  boil — or  simmer,  for  the  water  must  not  even  bubble 
— wrap  the  fish  in  a  coarse  net,  through  which  you  can 
easily  test  with  a  fork,  to  see  if  it  is  done.  Or  a  nicer  way 
perhaps,  as  both  the  form  and  flavor  are  better  preserved, 
is  to  sew  around  it  a  single  thickness  of  coarse  linen  cloth 
of  rather  loose  texture.  Cook  in  a  fish-kettle,  if  you  have 
one;  this  is  an  oblong  vessel  with  a  perforated  tin  plate 
suspended  in  it,  upon  which  the  fish  is  laid;  the  plate  has  a 
handle  at  each  end  for  lifting  it  out.  If  you  have  none, 
use  a  pot  or  pan  with  a  bottom  wide  enough  not  to  crowd. 
Barely  cover  with  water  that  is  just  ready  to  boil,  and  set 
where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  will  not  bubble;  remove  any 
scum  that  rises.  Continue  the  cooking  till  done,  allowing, 
say  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound,  according  to 
thickness,  kind  of  fish,  etc. ;  when  wrapped  in  a  cloth,  a  lit- 
tle longer  time  would  be  required.  Keep  the  lid  on  till 
finished.  If  the  flavor  is  liked,  slice  and  boil  two  or  three 
onions  in  a  separate  pot,  cooking  till  they  are  about  done ; 
then  drain  off  the  water,  and  turn  them  into  the  fish-kettle; 
some  add  a  little  parsley  also.  Use  the  fork  from  time  to 
time,  and  as  soon  as  the  fish  is  tender  remove  from  the  fire, 
lift  out,  and  drain;  too  much  cooking  will  spoil  it;  and  too 
little  is  equally  detrimental  to  the  flavor. 

Serve  with  lemon  juice,  if  it  is  liked.  Or  a  plain  sauce 
may  be  made,  as  follows  :  Bub  together  a  tablespoonful  of 
fresh  butter,  and  the  same  of  white  flour;  then  stir  into  this 
mixture  the  liquor  (a  cupful)   drained  from  the   fish;  it 


part  in.]  FISH.  499 

should  be  warm,  not  hot.    When  well  mixed,  heat  the  sauce 
to  boiling,  and  pour  it  over. 

Another  way,  is  to  substitute  thin  cream  or  new  milk  for 
the  fish-liquor;  after  mixing  with  the  butter  and  flour,  heat' 
just  to  a  boil,  but  no  more.  Still  another  sauce  is  made  by 
sthiing  into  the  liquor  the  butter  and  flour  rubbed  to- 
gether, and  then  adding  half  a  cup  of  milk  in  which  you 
have  boiled  a  shallot,  and  a  head  of  celery  chopped  fine; 
these  must  be  strained  out  before  the  milk  is  added.  Boil 
one  minute,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and 
take  from  the  fire.  These  sauces,  though  not  hygienic,  are 
relatively  simple. 

Baked  Fish.=£ 

Baked  fish,  like  roast  turkey,  depends  more  upon  the 
manner  of  cooking  for  its  richness  of  flavor,  than  almost 
any  other  dish.  But  first  of  all,  the  fish  itself  must  be  en- 
tirely fresh,  and  the  cleaning  thoroughly  done.  Be  very 
sure  that  you  lay  it  open  its  whole  length,  and  see  if  there 
is  any  dark,  coagulated  blood  lying  on  either  side  of  the 
back-bone;  if  so,  scrape  it  all  out  with  a  knife,  and  rinse 
thoroughly  (but  do  not  soak)  in  cold  water.  The  fish  should 
be  cooked  very  soon  after  purchasing;  if  there  is  any  delay, 
keep  it  in  the  coldest  place  possible,  till  wanted. 

The  best  way  to  bake  it,  is  as  follows  :  Fold  it  together, 
lay  it  in  a  dripping-pan,  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and 
place  in  a  very  moderate  oven;  it  must  cook  slowly,  espec- 
ially in  the  start.  Baste  pretty  often,  quite  often  toward  the 
last,  and  by  all  means  do  not  let  the  pan  get  dry;  add  boil- 
ing water — not  too  much — from  time  to  time,  as  it  is  need- 
ed. Some  pour  over  a  little  tomato  stewed  till  smooth,  half 
an  hour  before  finishing.  For  a  fish  weighing  three  or  f our 
pounds,  bake  slowly  and  steadily,  all  of  two  hours;  a  smaller 
one  will  require  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  Should  the 
oven  chance  to  get  too  hot,  cover  with  another  pan,  and  re- 
duce the  heat  as  soon  as  possible.  White  fish  should  be  an 
33 


500  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

even  buff  color  when  done,  and  the  gravy,  of  which  there 
should  be  two  or  three  spoonfuls,  thick  and  jelly-like;  pour 
this  over  when  dished,  and  send  directly  to  the  table.  Shad, 
and  some  other  fish,  may  be  filled  with  a  dressing  of  bread- 
crumbs moistened  slightly  with  tepid  water,  and  a  little 
dry  sage  or  chopped  parsley  mixed  through  it;  then  sew 
up  securely,  and  bake  as  before.  The  added  dressing, 
however,  is  not  an  improvement  on  the  method  just  de- 
scribed. Some  relish  the  fish  better  with  a  little  lemon 
juice  squeezed  over;  though  a  better  way,  is  to  send  round 
the  lemons  cut  in  quarters.  Serve  with  mashed  or  baked 
potato,  and  stewed  white  turnips  or  other  plain  vegetables. 

After  a  dinner  with  baked  fish,  a  dessert  of  tart  fresh 
oranges  is  in  place ;  and  at  the  supper  following  it,  you  will 
likely  welcome  canned  gooseberries,  sour  cherries,  or  cran- 
berry sauce. 

Broiled  Fish. 

Clean,  rinse  well  with  eold  water,  inside  and  out,  and 
wipe  dry  with  a  cloth.  Lay  the  fish  flat  on  a  gridiron,  skin 
uppermost,  and  broil  over  a  bed  of  clear  coals  till  the  under 
side  is  evenly  browned.  Then  turn,  and  brown  the  other 
side  in  the  same  way.  It  will  take  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes  to  broil  a  fish  of  ordinary  size. 

Brook  Trout. # 

These,  and  other  small  fish,  fresh  from  the  running 
streams,  are  good  cooked  as  follows  :  Put  some  fresh  but- 
ter or  dripping  into  a  skillet  or  iron  pan,  and  set  it  on  the 
stove  till  hot,  but  not  scorching.  After  cleaning,  split  the 
fish  open  from  head  to  tail,  so  they  will  lie  flat;  then  dip 
each  into  corn  or  oat  meal,  and  lay  it  smoothly,  flesh  side 
down,  in  the  hot  skillet  or  pan.  Brown  moderately  on  the 
under  side,  then  turn,  and  brown  the  other.  If  properly 
done,  they  will  be  better  —  and  the  trouble  less — than  if 
broiled  on  a  gridiron. 


PART  in.]  FISH.  501 

Brook  trout  are  sometimes  baked,  in  this  way:  First  dress 
them  nicely,  and  if  you  can  take  the  trouble,  remove  the 
bones  carefully  with  the  fingers.  Then  arrange  the  fish  in 
a  bake-pan,  scattering  bread-crumbs  between  the  layers  ; 
moisten  the  crumbs  with  half  a  cup  of  meat  gravy,  or  you 
may  drop  in  little  bits  of  fresh  butter.  When  the  pan  is 
full,  add,  say  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and 
set  it  in  the  oven.  Bake  with  a  moderate  heat,  from  an 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours  ;  baste  if  there  is  need,  and 
cover  the  top  if  it  browns  too  fast.  If  the  pan  is  in  danger 
of  going  dry,  add  part  of  a  cup  of  water,  boiling  hot. 
When  done,  there  should  be  a  very  little  moisture  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dish. 

Salt  Fish. 

Fish,  as  already  stated,  must  be  considered  inferior  to 
beef  or  mutton — and  all  meats  less  wholesome  than  fruits 
and  grains.  What  then  can  we  say  of  salt  fish  ?  If  it  was 
poor  before  salting,  it  is  worse  afterward  ;  the  muscular 
fibers  are  hardened  and  toughened  with  the  antiseptic,  and 
to  get  rid  of  the  latter,  much  of  the  nutrient  properties  con- 
tained must  necessarily  be  lost  in  soaking  and  boiling. 
Briefly  stated,  salt  fish  is  "mighty  poor  eating."  But  if  the 
country  people  will  live  on  it,  instead  of  raising  and  eating 
an  abundance  of  choice  fruits,  vegetables  and  grains,  the 
next  best  thing,  of  course,  is  to  teach  them  (if  they  do  not 
know  already)  how  to  cook  the  article  in  the  least  objection- 
able way. 

Mackerel. — (Salt. ) 

Salt  mackerel  requires  a  long  time  to  soak;  twenty-four 
hours  would  scarcely  more  than  suffice  to  freshen  it.  If  it 
has  to  be  done  in  shorter  time,  start  the  fish  to  soak  in  tepid 
water,  and  change  three  or  four  times.  When  sufficiently 
fresh  you  may  drop  it  into  ice-water,  and  let  it  stand  an 
hour  to  harden  a  little.  Then  broil,  bake  or  boil,  as  suits 
you  best. 


502  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  HI.. 

If  you  broil,  dry  the  fish  with  a  clean  cloth,  lay  it  on  a 
gridiron  well  oiled,  and  brown  slightly;  then  turn  with  ex- 
treme care,  using  a  cake-turner  for  fear  of  breaking  it. 
Brown  the  other  side  in  the  same  way,  and  lift  to  a  plate. 

Or  you  may  lay  it  after  thorough  soaking,  into  a  drip- 
ping-pan, place  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes,  and  then  remove ; 
set  the  pan  on  top  of  the  stove,  and  pour  in  a  cup  of  thin 
cream — some  use  half  milk;  when  this  is  hot,  stir  in  a  little 
flour  wet  with  milk  or  water  to  a  smooth  paste,  and  then 
heat  just  to  a  boil.  Cooking  a  moment  too  long  after  the 
thickening  is  added,  spoils  the  dressing. 

To  boil  mackerel,  soak  till  fresh,  as  just  described,  then 
barely  cover  it  with  cold  water,  and  heat  to  bubbling,  keep- 
ing the  vessel  tightly  closed.  Drain  well,  and  lay  it  on  a 
hot  plate;  the  only  dressing  needed  is  a  little  drawn  butter, 
prepared  as  follows:  Rub  together  a  tablespoonful  of  white 
flour  and  one  of  fresh  butter,  stir  in  gradually  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  heat  to  boiling,  and  cook  one  minute;  then  pour  the 
sauce  over  the  fish. 

Serve  mackerel  and  other  salt  fish  with  plenty  of  good 
mashed  potato ;  and  if  for  dinner,  accompany  it  with 
boiled  white  turnips,  if  you  like  them. 

This  and  other  salt  fish,  should  never  be  eaten  in  hot 

weather. 

Codfish. — (Salt. ) 

Salt  codfish  must  be  freshened,  before  it  is  cooked  ;  then 
it  may  be  boiled,  baked  or  broiled,  or  cooked  in  other  ways, 
the  principal  of  which  are  hereafter  described. 

Boiled. 
First  freshen  the  fish.  This  is  usually  done  by  soaking 
it  over  night  in  tepid  water,  and  changing  once  or  twice.  A 
quicker  way,  however,  is  the  following:  Shred  the  cod  into 
strips  the  size  of  your  finger,  throwing  out  all  the  bone, 
skin,  and  other  imperfect  portions  that  may  lie  imbedded 


part  in.]  FISH.  503 

between  the  muscles.  Then  cut  it  across  the  "  grain  "  into 
inch  lengths,  put  these  into  a  pot,  and  pour  in  a  quantity  of 
cold  water;  more  than  enough  to  cover.  Do  this  several 
hours  before  the  fish  is  wanted,  put  on  the  lid,  and  set  the 
pot  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  it  will  heat  slowly.  Just 
as  it  is  coming  to  a  boil  remove  from  the  fire,  drain  off  all 
the  water,  and  re-fill  with  cold;  heat  again,  covered,  as  be- 
forehand drain.  By  this  time  the  cod  will  probably  be 
fresh  enough  ;  if  it  is  not,  repeat  the  process  once  more, 
adding  less  cold  water.  Cover  closely,  and  simmer,  heating 
barely  to  the  boiling  point  ;  then  pour  off  all  the  water, 
and  add  a  cup  of  thin  cream  ;  heat  again  to  boiling,  and 
thicken  with  a  very  little  white  flour;  this  last  should  be  wet 
with  milk  to  a  smooth  paste,  before  stirring  it  in.  Watch 
with  a  "  hawk's  eye  "  (using  the  spoon),  and  the  moment 
the  mixture  begins  to  bubble,  lift  from  the  fire;  if  it  comes 
fully  to  a  boil,  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  dressing  is  lost. 

Baked. 

To  bake  salt  codfish,  you  must  first  wash  and  scrape  it, 
removing  the  scales,  and  then  freshen  it  thoroughly  by 
soaking  several  hours,  or  over  night ;  change  the  water  to- 
ward the  last,  and  let  it  soak  a  little  longer.  When  you  have 
done  this,  put  it  into  a  dripping-pan  with  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  tepid  water,  and  bake,  covered,  allowing  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes  for  a  piece  of  two  or  three  pounds'  weight ;  the 
water  should  then  be  about  all  out.  Before  removing  from 
the  oven,  pour  over  the  cod  a  little  milk  or  cream,  thickened 
with  just  a  trifle  of  flour;  let  the  dressing  barely  begin  to 
boil,  take  out,  dish,  and  send  to  the  table.  Serve  this  and 
the  last  with  boiled  or  mashed  potato. 

Broiled. 

Salt  codfish  may  be  broiled  as  follows  :  First  freshen  as 
for  boiling,  except  that  the  shredding  is   omitted.     Then 


504  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

drop  it  into  very  cold  water  half  an  hour,  to  harden  ;  oil 
the  gridiron  with  a  little  fresh  suet,  dry  the  cod  with  a  clean 
cloth,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  till  the  under  side  is 
browned;  then  turn  it  carefully,  and  brown  the  other  side. 

Codfish  Toast. 

Boil  the  cod  as  in  the  last  recipe  but  two,  finish  with  the 
cream  dressing,  and  then  pour  it  over  slices  of  dry  toast. 
Or  you  may  cover  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  broken  crack- 
ers, or  cold  biscuits  split  in  two  and  half  toasted,  and  pour 
it  over  these.  Serve  with  mashed  potato.  Some  stir  in  a 
beaten  egg,  after  taking  the  codfish  from  the  fire  ;  but  this 
is  hardly  necessary,  the  cream  gravy  being  quite  sufficient. 

Codfish  Scallop. 

Prepare  and  boil  the  cod,  as  in  the  recipe  already  given, 
only  leave  out  the  cream  gravy.  Then  dry  some  stale 
bread-crumbs  in  the  oven,  and  fill  a  dish  with  alternate 
layers  of  crumbs  and  fish,  beginning  and  ending  with  the 
latter;  moisten  each  layer  of  the  crumbs  with  the  water  in 
which  the  fish  was  boiled,  or  with  a  little  sweet  milk.  When 
all  is  in,  cover  with  newly  mashed  potato  wet  with  milk  or 
cream,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Codfish  Cakes.  ■ 

Pick  the  cod  apart,  in  pieces  the  size  of  your  two  fingers? 
throwing  out  the  bones,  skin,  and  any  imperfect  portions; 
then  cut  across  the  grain  or  fiber,  into  very  short  lengths — 
an  inch  or  less.  When  this  is  done,  freshen  the  fish  as  for 
boning,  by  covering  it  with  cold  water  and  bringing 
very  slowly  to  a  boil;  drain  off  all  the  water,  add  more 
cold,  and  heat  again.  Repeat  the  process  until  the  salt  is 
out  (say  two  or  three  times),  using  for  the  last  water 
barely  enough  to  cover  ;  keep  the  pot  tightly  closed  ;  if  the 
odor  goes  over  the  house,  the  flavor  will  be  out  of  the  dish 


PART  in.]  HOW    ABOUT    OYSTERS?  505 

at  dinner.  If  at  the  end  of  the  soaking  the  cod  is  not  very 
tender,  simmer  it  in  the  last  water  ten  to  fifteen  minutes 
but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Then  drain,  and  while  the  fish  is 
warm  shred  it  as  fine  as  possible,  and  add  twice  the  amount 
of  newly  mashed  potato,  hot,  and  with  the  lumps  all  out ; 
pour  in  a  little  cream  or  milk  (some  add  a  lump  of  butter) 
before  mashing.  Then  mix  as  thoroughly  as  possible 
the  codfish  and  potato,  stirring  lightly  with  a  fork ; 
form  with  the  hands  into  little  round  cakes  or  balls, 
flouring  them  a  trifle  if  they  are  so  wet  as  to  be  sticky. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  browning 
moderately. 

Instead  of  forming  into  cakes,  you  may  add  more  milk, 
making  the  mixture  quite  soft;  then  pour  it  into  a  pudding- 
dish,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Or  you  may  mix  stiff,  as 
before,  and  make  into  thin  flat  cakes;  brown  these  on  the 
griddle,  turning  when  the  under  side  is  done. 

Codfish  and  Potato. 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  cakes,  in  the  preceding  recipe; 
you  may  use  fresh  cod  instead  of  salted,  if  you  have  it. 
Then  mix  the  fish  wdth  the  mashed  potato  wTet  with  cream 
or  milk,  as  in  the  last.  Put  the  mixture — which  should  be 
pretty  moist — into  a  stew-pan  or  skillet,  and  heat  till  it  is 
smoking  hot,  stirring  lightly  but  constantly;  some  add 
parsley  for  seasoning. 

HOW  ABOUT  OYSTEKS? 

It  has  already  been  stated  that  meat — the  best  of  it,  as 
beef  or  mutton — must  rank  lower  than  grains,  both  in  the 
quantity  and  quality  of  nutritive  substance  contained;  that 
fish  and  fowl  are  inferior  to  meats;  and  it  may  here  be  added, 
that  oysters,  clams,  etc.,  belong  to  still  a  lower  grade  of  ani- 
mal foods.     They  stimulate,  rather  than  nourish;  and  this  is 


506  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IH. 

another  way  of  saying  that  they  contain,  in  proportion  to 
their  nutritive  elements,  a  large  per  cent,  of  matter  so  poor 
in  quality,  that  the  system  can  not  utilize  it.  Indeed,  how 
could  it  be  otherwise  ?  The  oyster  is  a  creature  of  low  or- 
ganization; it  lives,  moves,  and  has  its  being,  down  in  the 
still  waters,  among  beds  of  slime.  Its  food  is  on  a  par 
with  its  surroundings;  and  as  might  be  expected,  its  depu- 
rating organs  (which  we  must  eat,  along  with  the  balance  of 
it)  are  relatively  large.  Its  liver — which  is  that  dark  sub- 
stance in  it — is  said  to  be  larger  than  all  the  rest  of  the 
oyster  put  together;  and  like  all  other  livers,  it  must  neces- 
sarily be  filled  with  excrementitious  matter.  The  oyster  is 
said  to  contain  about  12J  per  cent,  of  solid  material — such 
as  it  is. 

MEAT  PIES,   Etc. 

Pies  or  "  pasties  "  are  made  not  only  with  chicken,  turkey 
or  wild  fowl,  but  with  beef,  mutton  or  lamb.  There  are 
various  kinds  of  paste  used  in  these  "  family  dishes,"  the 
principal  of  which  are  given  below.  The  first  and  best 
(which  we  have  had  on  a  former  page),  is  the  light  cream 
paste,  made  of  equal  parts  sifted  Graham  and  white  flour, 
the  latter  of  the  coarser  brands  ;  very  fine  flour,  as  the 
"  superfine,"  has  the  life  ground  out  of  it,  and  is  not  fit  for 
either  bread  or  paste. 

Before  making  the  pies,  boil  the  meat  till  it  is  nearly 
done;  then  mix  the  paste,  make,  set  in  the  oven,  and  bake 
no  longer  than  is  required  to  cook  the  crust.  Put  enough 
gravy  in  at  the  start,  and  little  or  no  filling  up  will  be  need- 
ed; if  it  must  be  done,  add  the  water  boiling  hot.  The 
pie-pan  may  be  deep  or  shallow,  and  of  any  size  or  shape. 
Some  line  it  throughout,  before  putting  in  the  meat;  others 
line  the  sides  only,  leaving  the  bottom  uncovered;  and  still 
others  prefer  to  bake  in  a  long  shallow  dish,  and  have  only 


I?  ART  in.]  MEAT   PIES,  ETC.  507 

a  top  crust.     This  latter  is  the  better  way,  if  you  want  the 
crust  light,  tender,  and  well  done. 

In  mixing  paste  for  meat  pies,  do  not  have  the  cream  too 
rich;  half  milk  is  better. 

Light  Cream  Paste.  4£ 

1  cup  sweet  cream — part  new  milk  will  do. 
1^  cups  sifted  Grahamjlour. 

1|     "         "       white 

§  teaspoonful  soda,  finely  pulverized. 

1|  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar. 

Stir  the  Graham  and  white  flour  together,  add  the  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar,  and  sift  at  least  twice.  Keep  the 
cream  in  the  ice-chest  till  wanted;  then  mix  lightly  and 
quickly,  forming. rather  a  firm  dough;  do  not  knead ;  simply 
get  the  mass  together.  The  colder  the  cream  and  flour,  the 
crisper  the  dough  will  be ;  and  the  latter,  if  mixed  before  it 
is  wanted,  should  be  set  in  the  refrigerator. 

If  baking-powder  is  used,  take  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls, 
and  sift  it  twice  through  the  flour  before  mixing.  And  if 
cream  or  new  milk  can  not  be  had  for  wetting,  take  a  lump 
of  fresh  butter,  work  the  salt  out  in  ice-water,  and  drain; 
then  rub  it  well  into  the  flour  after  sifting  the  soda  and 
cream  of  tartar  through  it,  and  mix  with  ice-water,  or  the 
coldest  you  can  get. 

Cream  Batter  Paste.  4£ 

2  cups  sweet  cream. 

1\  "      sifted  Graham  flour. 

1^  "         "       white 

-f  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

\\  teaspoonfuls  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 

Do  not  mix  this  paste  till  you  are  ready  to  use  it;  then 
make  a  batter  of  the  above  ingredients,  adding  the  dissolved 


508  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  HI. 

soda  last,  and  beating  very  thoroughly.  Spread  it  smoothly 
over  the  pie  with  a  knife,  and  bake  in  a  pretty  hot  oven, 
serving  as  soon  as  done.  Batter  crust  will  fall,  if  it  stands 
long.  This  amount  of  batter  will  cover  a  pie  eight  inches 
wide,  and  ten  long. 

Cream  and  Potato  Paste. 

1  cup  sweet  cream — or  new  milk. 

1     "    dry  mealy  potato,  finely  mashed. 

1     "    sifted  Graham  flour. 

1     "        "       white 

|  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

1J  teaspoonful s  cream-tartar,  sifted  through  the  flour. 
Wet  the  potato  with  the  milk  or  cream,  mashing  out  all 
the  lumps;  stir  in  the  Graham  and  white  flour,  add  the 
cream  of  tartar,  and  beat  well;  then  put  in  the  soda,  and 
beat  hard.  If  baking-powder  is  used,  take  two  heaping  or 
three  level  teaspoonfuls,  and  stir  it  in  the  last  thing.  The 
batter  made  with  the  above  ingredients,  is  enough  to  cover 
a  pie  eight  inches  wide  and  twelve  long;  or  nearly  ten 
inches  square.  Spread  it  smoothly  with  a  knife,  and  bake 
in  a  brisk  oven. 

Another. — Work  into  the  above  paste  another  cup  of 
sifted  Graham  flour,  making  a  dough  that  will  roll  out;  it 
should  be  rather  soft.  Get  it  together  without  kneading, 
roll  rather  thin — not  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick 
— and  bake  in  a  pretty  hot  oven. 

Beef  and  Potato  Pie.^ 
Select  two  or  three  pounds  of  good  tender  beef;  a  rib 
piece  or  sirloin  is  excellent.  If  you  buy  ribs,  let  the  butcher 
chop  them  into  short  lengths;  then  with  a  knife  you  can 
cut  between  and  separate  them,  before  boiling;  this  leaves 
the  meat  in  small  pieces.  Having  trimmed  off  any  super- 
fluous fat,  put  the  meat  into  a  pot,  cover  with  boiling  water, 


PART  in.]  MEAT   PIES,  ETC.  509 

and  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises.  You  may  slice  in  an 
onion,  if  you  like  its  flavor.  Boil  gently,  keeping  the  pot 
closely  covered,  and  when  nearly  tender  lift  from  the  fire, 
and  take  the  meat  out.  Peel  a  few  potatoes,  say  five  or 
six,  and  either  quarter  them  or  cut  into  rather  thick  pieces; 
do  not  slice,  as  it  makes  them  less  mealy.  Boil  these  in 
very  little  water  till  they  are  half  done;  then  drain  well,  and 
keep  covered  in  their  own  hot  steam,  till  you  are  ready  to 
use  them. 

While  these  are  cooking  make  a  light  cream  paste,  and 
line  the  sides  of  a  bake-dish.  Some  cover  the  bottom  also 
with  paste,  but  it  is  better  left  bare — and  the  sides  the  same, 
if  you  want  all  the  crust  very  light  and  tender.  When  the 
meat  is  half  cold  pull  out  the  bones,  cut  the  larger  pieces 
in  two  if  there  is  need,  and  put  a  layer  of  it  in  the  pan;  ar- 
range the  pieces  in  a  regular  way,  so  that  the  pie  will  cut 
well.  Add  next,  a  light  layer  of  the  parboiled  potatoes; 
then  more  meat,  then  more  potatoes;  two  thin  layers  of  each 
will  be  enough.  A  few  tiny  bits  of  paste  pinched  off,  may 
likewise  be  added.  Thicken  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat 
stewed,  by  stirring  in  a  little  white  flour  wet  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  milk  or  water,  and  heating  all  to  a  boil.  Pour 
this  gravy  into  the  pie,  which  should  be  about  two-thirds 
covered  with  it ;  if  there  is  not  enough,  add  boiling  water. 
Then  put  on  the  top  crust  rolled  to  the  thickness  of  half  an 
inch,  secure  the  edges,  and  prick  well  with  a  fork  ;  cut  a 
good  cross-slit  in  the  center,  and  set  the  pie  in  the  oven. 
Bake  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  or  till  the  crust  is  done; 
cover,  if  it  browns  too  fast.  When  taken  out,  cool  ten  min- 
utes, and  serve  in  the  bake-dish  ;  this  may  be  a  granitized 
iron  pan,  two  and  a  half  inches  deep. 

Instead  of  all  beef,  you  may  use  part  mutton  or  lamb  ; 
or  chicken  or  squirrel,  if  preferred. 


510  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.         [PART  III. 

Mutton  or  Lamb  Pie.  4^ 

Good  mutton  or  lamb  makes  an  excellent  pie.  If  you 
have  a  piece  with  ribs,  cut  the  latter  in  short  lengths,  say 
an  inch  and  a  half,  and  then  separate  them  by  cutting  be- 
tween. If  there  is  much  fat  remove  a  portion  of  it,  then 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  slice  in  an  onion,  if  you  like; 
stew  slowly,  till  the  meat  is  nearly  tender.  Peel  half  a 
dozen  small  potatoes,  quarter  them,  or  cut  in  pretty  thick 
pieces,  and  boil  eight  minutes  in  very  little  water.  While 
they  are  cooking  mix  a  light  cream  paste,  as  per  recipe 
already  given. 

When  the  meat  has  boiled  enough  take  it  out,  remove 
any  large  bones,  but  leave  in  the  ribs;  and  if  some  portions 
are  in  big  pieces,  cut  them  into  inch  bits,  or  a  little  larger. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  a  granitized  iron  pan  or  other  bake- 
dish  with  half  of  it,  and  then  put  in  half  the  potatoes,  scat- 
tering them  well  over  the  meat;  add  the  rest  of  the  mutton 
or  lamb,  and  the  remainder  of  the  potatoes;  put  in  also  a 
few  small  bits  of  paste,  if  you  like  it.  Stir  into  the  liquor 
left  in  the  pot,  a  little  white  flour  wet  with  milk  or  water, 
and  heat  to  a  boil;  then  pour  it  over  the  pie.  Should  there 
not  be  enough  of  the  gravy  to  more  than  half  cover  it,  add 
a  little  boiling  water.  Lay  on  the  crust,  rolled  about  half 
an  inch  thick,  cut  a  cross-slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake  in  an 
even  oven  thirty  to  forty  minutes.     Serve  in  the  dish. 

Mutton  or  lamb  mixed  with  chicken,  squirrel,  rabbit,  or 
wild  fowl,  makes  a  very  good  pie;  these  you  may  stew  in  a 
separate  pot,  if  they  take  a  longer  or  shorter  time  to  cook 
than  the  other  meat. 

Meat  Pie  with  Potato  Crust. 
Make  like  either  of  the  two  last,  and  cover  with  a  crust 
made  as  directed  in  the  second  paragraph,  under  the  head 
of  "  Cream  and  Potato  Paste."     This  paste  is  good,  but  not 
equal  to  light  cream  paste. 


PART  HLj  meat  pies,  etc.  511 

Cold  Meat  Pie. 

Take  cold  beef,  mutton  or  lamb,  or  some  of  each,  left 
from  a  previous  roast  or  stew;  strip  the  meat  off  the  bones, 
rejecting  any  hard,  gristly,  or  imperfect  pieces,  and  also 
the  superfluous  fat.  Where  the  fat  and  lean  are  well 
mixed  cut  them  together,  in  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick.  The  other  portions  you  may  cut  into  inch  pr 
half -inch  lengths,  making  a  sort  of  coarse  hash;  the  pieces 
of  solid  fat  should,  if  used,  be  minced  very  fine,  and  only  as 
much  of  the  best  taken  as  is  needed;  then  add  some  cold 
potato,  not  sliced,  but  cut  in  small  bits.  Having  stripped 
the  bones  crack  them,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with 
the  other  poorer  parts,  not  including  the  fat;  if  there  is  a 
remnant  of  cold  steak  left  over,  chop  it  fine,  and  add  with 
any  of  its  gravy  to  the  contents  of  the  pan.  If  the  flavor  of 
onion  is  liked,  slice  it  in  with  the  rest;  then  pour  in  cold 
water  to  nearly  cover,  and  heat  slowly  to  a  boil.  Skim  if 
there  is  need,  simmer  an  hour,  and  strain  out  the  liquor, 
adding  to  it  any  cold  gravy  left  from  a  previous  roast  or 
stew;  thicken  with  a  little  browned  flour  wet  with  milk  or 
water,  stir  well,  heat  to  a  boil,  and  set  off  to  cool. 

In  the  mean  time  mix  a  light  cream  paste,  or  a  potato  paste 
that  you  can  roll  out;  the  recipes  for  these  have  already 
been  given.  Then  fill  a  bake-pan,  one  that  is  wide  and 
shallow,  with  the  meat  and  potato;  the  dish  should  not  be 
more  than  two  inches  deep;  pour  over  the  made  gravy,  of 
which  there  should  be  enough  to  cover  half  or  two-thirds 
of  the  pie,  roll  a  crust  half  an  inch  thick,  lay  it  on,  and 
pinch  down  closely  at  the  edge.  Prick  well  with  a  fork, 
cut  a  cross-slit  in  the  middle,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven 
thirty  minutes,  or  till  the  crust  is  done. 

Another  way,  requiring  less  work,  is  to  cut  the  meat  in 
larger  pieces,  say  two  inches  long,  and  the  width  of  your 
finger;  then  mix  with  the  potato,  and  proceed  as  before.    A 


512  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  IIL 

pie  made  with  the  cold  remnants  of  a  roast,  is  not  of  course 
equal  to  one  with  fresh  meat;  but  then,  it  is  not  expected 
to  be. 

Meat  Pie  with  Batter  Crust. 

Make  like  the  preceding,  except  to  cut  the  meat  finer,  and 
have  it  not  so  moist.  Add  a  little  less  water  to  the  bones, 
when  you  make  the  gravy;  or  if  there  is  some  cold  gravy 
left  over,  you  may  dilute  this  with  warm  or  hot  water,  and 
use  it  for  the  pie ;  no  thickening  will  be  needed.  Cut  the 
meat  across  the  grain  or  fiber,  in  slices  not  more  than  half 
an  inch  thick;  you  may  break  or  cut  these  if  they  are  large, 
but  do  not  chop  them.  Mix  in  bits  of  cold  potato,  about 
half  as  much  as  there  is  meat;  and  if  onion  is  liked,  you 
may  slice  and  parboil  one  or  two,  and  put  them  in.  Some 
add  small  bits  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour;  but  if  you  have 
part  fat  meat,  there  is  no  need. 

When  all  is  ready  put  the  meat  and  potato  into  a  shallow 
pan,  making  the  pie  an  inch,  or  an  inch  and  a  half  thick, 
before  the  crust  is  laid  on.  Pour  in  the  gravy,  and  then 
cover  with  a  cream  batter  paste,  or  a  cream  and  potato 
paste  (batter),  made  as  per  recipe  already  given;  spread  it 
evenly  with  a  knife,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  forty  to  fifty 
minutes,  or  till  done.  Serve  immediately,  as  the  crust  will 
become  heavy  if  it  stands  long. 

If  preferred,  you  can  leave  out  the  cold  potato,  slice  the 
meat  thin,  and  hash  it  very  fine;  then  fill  the  pan  to  the 
depth  of  an  inch,  and  moisten  as  before.  Cover  with  either 
of  the  batter  pastes,  and  bake. 

Beef  or  Mutton  Scallop. 
Take  what  is  left  of  a  cold  roast  or  stew  of  beef  or 
mutton — cold  lamb  is  better — reject  any  hard  or  gristly  por- 
tions, and  if  there  is  too  much  fat  leave  out  the  poorest  of 
it.  Cut  the  meat  across  the  grain  in  thin  slices,  and  chop  it 
fine;  if  there  are  any  lumps  of  fat,  mince  them  very  fine 


PAKT  III.j  MEAT   PIES,  ETC.  513 

before  adding  to  the  rest.  When  the  meat  is  all  off  crack 
the  bones,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  the  other  in- 
ferior bits,  for  the  gravy;  if  you  like  a  little  onion  or  celery, 
slice  it  in.  Then  pour  in  a  pint  of  water,  and  simmer 
slowly,  an  hour;  lift  from  the  fire,  strain  out  the  liquor,  and 
add  to  it  any  dripping  or  gravy  left  over. 

This  done,  prepare  some  stale  bread-crumbs,  grating  them 
rather  fine;  you  may  mix  in  with  them  a  sprinkle  of  dry 
sage ;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  bake-dish  with  a  layer  of  these, 
put  in  the  same  quantity  of  chopped  meat,  and  moisten 
well  with  the  gravy  from  the  stew-pan,  now  nearly  cold. 
The  dish  should  be  wide  enough  to  hold  about  half  the 
hash,  the  first  layer.  Follow  with  another  of  crumbs,  and 
then  the  rest  of  the  meat;  if  liked,  mix  a  few  cold  potatoes 
finely  chopped,  with  the  latter.  Moisten  again,  and  finish 
with  a  good  layer  of  very  fine  crumbs;  pour  over  these  the 
rest  of  the  gravy,  moistening  them  pretty  thoroughly — or 
if  this  gives  out,  you  may  take  a  little  milk;  some  beat  an 
egg  into  the  latter.  Cover  the  dish  with  another  the  same 
size,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  thirty  minutes,  or  till  the  scallop 
is  steaming  hot;  then  uncover,  brown  quickly,  take  out  and 
send  to  the  table  in  the  bake-dish. 

Meat  Scallop  with  Eggs. 

Make,  cover  and  bake,  the  same  as  the  last;  five  minutes 
before  you  want  to  serve  the  scallop,  draw  it  from  the  oven, 
uncover,  and  break  as  many  fresh  eggs  over  the  top  as  it 
will  hold.  Slide  back  the  dish,  and  shut  the  door  two  or 
three  minutes,  watching  closely  that  the  eggs  do  not  cook 
too  much.  As  soon  as  the  whites  are  well  set,  remove  from 
the  oven  and  serve. 

Mutton  and  Potato  Scallop. 

Mince  the  meat,  cold  mutton  or  lamb,  and  make  like 
either  of  the  two  last,  except  that  cold  chopped  potato  is 


514  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

taken  instead  of  bread-crumbs;  and  in  filling  the  dish  begin 
with  meat,  and  end  with  potato.  Cover  closely,  and  bake 
from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
scallop;  brown  at  the  last. 

Mutton  and   Tomato  Scallop.  4£ 

If  you  have  cold  mutton  or  lamb  left  over,  mince  it  fine, 
and  moisten  with  cold  gravy  if  there  is  any.  If  you  have 
none  crack  the  bones,  add  a  little  cold  water,  and  simmer 
nearly  an  hour;  then  strain  the  liquor  and  moisten  the  hash 
with  it,  making  it  pretty  wet.  Or  if  the  meat  has  no  bones 
and  scarcely  any  fat,  put  into  the  mince  a  few  bits  of 
fresh  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  moisten  with  a  cup  of  warm 
water.  Prepare  in  the  mean  time  some  fine  bread-crumbs 
from  a  stale  Graham  loaf,  having  as  much  crumbs  as  there 
is  hash;  cover  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  or  granitized  iron 
pan  with  these,  put  in  a  layer  of  the  meat,  and  follow  with 
one  of  raw  chopped  tomatoes.  Repeat  the  layers,  filling  the 
dish;  then  cover,  set  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  from 
forty  to  fifty  minutes;  uncover  five  minutes  at  the  end,  if 
the  top  is  not  already  browned. 

Another  way  is  to  cut  the  meat  into  very  thin  slices,  and 
the  tomatoes  the  same;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  bake-pan 
with  bread-crumbs,  and  fill  it  with  alternate  layers  of  meat 
and  tomatoes,  ending  with  the  latter;  moisten  the  layers  as 
you  lay  them  in.  Then  bake  as  before.  Beef  can  be  sub- 
stituted for  mutton  or  lamb,  and  canned  tomatoes  for  raw. 

Mutton  and  Potato  Pie. 

Slice  cold  mutton  or  lamb,  making  the  pieces  as  thin  as 
possible,  and  chop  it  very  fine;  add  a  parboiled  onion  or  a 
stalk  of  celery,  sliced  and  chopped;  then  moisten  with  a 
cup  of  milk  or  cream,  or  a  little  meat  gravy  diluted  with 
water.  Or  if  there  are  bones,  you  may  crush  them,  add  a 
pint  of  cold  water,  and  simmer  nearly  an  hour;  then  strain, 


PART  III.]  MEAT    PIES,  ETC.  515 

and  moisten  the  meat  with  the  liquor;  do  not  make  it  too 
wet.  Peel  and  boil  five  or  six  potatoes,  drain,  add  a  little 
milk,  and  mash  till  there  are  no  lumps;  then  stir  in  more 
milk,  forming  a  batter  that  will  just  drop  from  the  spoon. 
Put  the  hash  into  a  bake-pan,  spread  it  in  an  even  layer, 
and  about  an  inch  in  depth;  then  pour  on  the  potato  batter, 
smooth  it  down  with  a  knife,  and  bake  from  thirty  to  forty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Send  to  the  table  as  soon  as 
done.     Beef  may  be  used  instead  of  mutton. 

Lancashire  Pie. — (  Good. )  4|= 

Take  cold  beef  well  streaked  with  fat,  and  slice  very  thin; 
then  chop  it  as  fine  as  possible,  throwing  out  all  the  hard, 
gristly,  or  imperfect  pieces;  some  mix  in  with  the  meat  a 
little  onion,  finely  chopped  and  parboiled.  Crush  the  bones, 
if  there  are  any,  and  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  the 
rejected  bits;  add  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  simmer  half  an 
hour,  keeping  the  pan  closely  covered  ;  then  strain  the 
Liquor,  and  add  to  it  any  cold  gravy  left  over.  Wet  the 
hash  with  this,  making  it  moist  rather  than  juicy;  do  not 
forget  this  last  item.  In  the  absence  of  bones,  use  a  rem- 
nant of  cold  steak  for  the  gravy;  chop  it  fine,  cover  with 
cold  water,  simmer  half  an  hour,  and  strain;  then  add  the 
cold  gravy  as  before.  Or  if  there  is  no  steak,  you  may 
simply  dilute  the  gravy  you  have  with  a  little  warm  water, 
and  take  this  to  moisten  the  pie. 

When  the  hash  is  prepared,  peel  some  potatoes  and  drop 
into  boiling  water,  scarcely  more  than  will  cook  them;  there 
should  be  fully  as  much  potato  as  meat.  Boil  steadily,  and 
the  very  instant  a  fork  will  go  through  the  largest,  drain  off 
all  the  water,  return  the  pot  to  the  fire,  add  a  trifle  of  good 
milk  (cream  is  better),  and  mash  till  there  are  no  lumps. 
Do  all  this  very  quickly,  for  the  potato  must  be  steaming 
hot,  and  rather  dry.  Now  cover  the  bottom  of  a  bake-pan 
with  a  laver  of  the  hash  (it  should  take  half  of  it),  put  in 
54 


516  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

the  same  quantity  of  potato,  then  the  rest  of  the  hash,  then 
the  potato,  of  which  there  should  be  a  good  thick  layer  for 
the  top.  Smooth  neatly  with  a  knife,  set  in  a  brisk  oven, 
and  bake  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes,  browning  at  the  end. 
When  done  send  directly  to  the  table,  serving  in  the  pan. 

The  success  of  this  dish  depends,  first,  on  the  quality  of 
the  materials;  second,  on  the  rapidity  with  which  they  are 
put  together;  and  lastly,  on  the  manner  of  baking.  Prop- 
erly made,  the  pie  is  excellent;  slovenly  done,  it  is  quite 
inferior. 

Kettle  Pie. 

This  pie  may  be  made  of  beef,  mutton,  lamb,  chicken, 
wild  fowl,  or  other  game;  or  you  may  combine  these  in  any 
proportions  you  like.  Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  and  stew 
till  nearly  tender,  starting  it  in  boiling  water;  cook  slowly, 
with  the  pot  closely  covered.  In  the  mean  time  mix  a  light 
cream  paste,  as  per  recipe  already  given;  use  part  milk  for 
the  mixing,  else  the  crust  will  be  too  rich;  have  ready  some 
potatoes,  peeled,  washed,  and  cut  through  once  or  twice,  if 
they  are  large.  When  sufficiently  tender,  take  the  meat  out, 
leaving  the  liquor  in  the  pot. 

Now  take  a  clean  kettle,  put  into  it  a  good  layer  of  the 
parboiled  meat,  then  one  of  cut  potato;  and  you  may  add 
a  few  small  bits  of  the  paste,  pinched  off  with  the  fingers; 
repeat  the  layers  until  the  meat  is  all  in;  the  kettle  may  be 
half  or  two-thirds  full.  Then  skim  and  add  the  liquor  used 
in  boiling;  there  should  be  enough  of  it  to  cover  at  least 
two-thirds  of  the  pie;  if  there  is  not,  pour  in  boiling  water. 
Boll  a  crust  nearly  half  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  it  on;  then 
cut  a  good  cross-slit  in  the  center  for  the  escape  of  steam, 
cover  the  kettle  with  a  close-fitting  lid,  and  place  it  over  the 
fire.  You  must  regulate  the  heat  so  that  the  pot  will  boil 
constantly,  but  not  hard;  and  it  is  best  not  to  uncover  till 
the  last.  It  will  require  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes  to 
cook,  according  to  the  size  (or  rather  the  depth)  of  the  pie, 


PART  III.  J  MEAT    PIES,  ETC.  517 

and  the  thickness  of  the  paste.  When  done  lift  off,  remove 
the  crust  carefully,  and  lay  it  on  a  plate;  then  dish  the  re- 
mainder, replace  the  crust,  and  send  to  the  table.  Instead 
of  rolling  the  dough  in  a  single  sheet,  you  may  if  preferred, 
lay  on  squares  of  paste,  rolled  out  and  cut  to  size. 

Steak  Roll. 

Take  three  pounds  of  good  sirloin  steak,  or  the  same  of 
mutton  chops  cut  from  the  loin;  and  after  removing  the 
bones  and  superfluous  fat  (there  must  be  some  fat,  but  not 
too  much),  cut  the  meat  into  very  small  bits,  or  hash  it  not 
too  fine.  Sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  and  through  it,  and 
moisten  slightly  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cold  gravy,  or  part 
of  a  cup  of  half-cooked  soup,  if  you  have  it;  the  latter 
must  be  cooled  and  skimmed.  Then  mix  a  light  cream 
paste,  roll  it  in  an  oblong  sheet  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  spread  with  the  meat;  you  may  add  to  this  a 
small  onion  sliced  very  thin,  and  chopped  fine;  or  a  sprinkle 
of  chopped  parsley,  if  preferred.  Roll  all  up  snugly,  pinch 
the  ends  well  together,  and  wrap  rather  loosely  in  a  clean 
white  napkin;  then  lay  in  a  round  tin  basin,  which  must  be 
large  enough  to  give  room  to  swell;  cover  the  latter  with 
an  inverted  pie-pan,  set  it  in  a  steamer,  and  steam  two 
hours  and  a  half.  Do  not  lift  the  lid  till  done,  and  keep  the 
water  at  a  fast  boil.  Serve  immediately;  no  dressing  is 
needed. 

If  a  part  of  the  roll  is  left  over,  warm  it  for  dinner  the 
next  day,  as  follows  :  Dip  the  piece  quickly  into  cold  water, 
lay  it  in  the  steamer,  within  a  closely  covered  basin,  and 
steam  till  it  is  thoroughly  heated  through.  Then  serve  with 
a  plain  dressing,  made  by  pouring  into  a  little  cold  gravy 
or  meat  juice  part  of  a  cup  of  cream,  thickened  with 
browned  flour,  and  brought  to  a  boil. 

A  poorer  piece  of  meat,  as  a  round  steak,  is  sometimes 
used ;  and  instead  of  making  a  roll,  another  way,  very  good, 


518  HEALTH    IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

is  to  line  a  bowl  with  a  little  more  than  half  the  paste,  let- 
ting the  latter  reach  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top.  Cut  the 
meat  into  bits  half  an  inch  long,  roll  them  in  flour,  and 
moisten  with  half  a  cup  of  weak  gravy;  this  can  be  made 
from  the  bones,  or  from  a  bit  of  cold  steak;  you  may  slice 
in  an  onion,  if  you  like.  Then  put  the  meat  hash  into  the 
bowl,  cover  with  the  rest  of  the  paste,  and  steam  as  before; 
the  bowl  must  be  covered  closely  with  an  inverted  plate  or 
pie-pan.  If  there  is  danger  of  the  steam  getting  into  it, 
lay  a  folded  napkin  over  the  top  before  putting  on  the 
plate. 

MEAT  STEWS,  Etc. 

The  dishes  that  are  here  given  in  the  way  of  stews,  and  also 
the  hashes  that  follow,  serve  a  two-fold  purpose  in  the  house- 
hold economy.  In  the  first  place,  they  add  variety — at  least 
in  their  preparation — to  the  routine  course  of  which  one  is 
apt  to  tire,  especially  in  winter  and  spring,  when  fruits  and 
vegetables  are  scarce  and  high-priced.  In  the  next  place, 
these  simple  preparations,  many  of  which  are  manufactured 
from  ready-made  dishes,  are  the  means  of  saving  the  frag- 
ments that  are  left  over,  and  that  might  otherwise  be 
wasted.  When  well  prepared,  they  are  often  more  appe- 
tizing than  their  predecessors;  and  they  ought  to  be  equally 
good,  clean  and  wholesome.  There  is  no  denying,  however, 
that  they  furnish  opportunity  for  the  display  of  rare  judg- 
ment, skill  and  good  taste,  in  the  person  of  the  cook;  and 
this  wanting,  everything  is  wanting. 

As  these  dishes  are  usually  made,  the  object  seems  to  be 
to  cover  up  defects,  both  in  the  quality  of  the  articles  em- 
ployed, and  in  their  preparation,  by  an  inordinate  amount 
of  seasoning;  whereas,  the  correct  way  would  be,  to  pre- 
serve and  retain  the  simple  virtues  existing  in  each  of  them. 
For  if  goodness  is  wanting  in  the  thing  itself,  no  amount 
of  "  mixing  up,"  by  the  endless  adding  of  ingredients,  can 


PART  lit;]  MEAT    STEWS,  ETC.  519 

disguise  the  fact;  and  the  proper  tiling  to  do  with  it,  is  to 
reject  it.  On  the  other  hand,  a  thing  really  good  does  not 
need  to  have  its  individuality  obliterated,  in  order  to  make 
its  virtues  known.  Indeed,  if  these  can  not  be  recognized 
without  too  much  ado,  it  is  pretty  good  evidence,  either 
that  the  article  is  worthless,  or  that  there  is  some  fault  in 
the  palate  of  the  one  wiio  eats  it. 

Directions  for  Making  Stews. 

The  following  are  some  general  directions  that  have  the 
sanction  of  good  authority,  for  making  plain  stews: 

1.  Begin  with  the  dripping — or  butter,  or  suet,  if  you 
use  it;  stir  into  this  the  flour  (it  should  be  carefully  browned 
in  the  oven  beforehand),  mixing  it  smooth,  so  as  to  leave 
no  lumps;  or  you  may  wet  it  to  a  paste  with  a  little  tepid 
water,  before  adding  it.  Heat  slowly,  and  stir  almost  con- 
stantly; when  it  is  well  incorporated  add  a  cup  or  more  of 
warm  water,  and  let  this  also  incorporate,  by  heating  very 
gently. 

2.  Then  put  in  the  meat,  and  let  it  thoroughly  heat 
through;  if  a  steak,  have  it  a  thick  one,  all  in  one  piece; 
you  may  if  you  like,  brown  it  (not  too  much)  in  a  hot  skillet, 
before  putting  it  into  the  pot;  then  simmer  slowly. 

3.  Next  in  order  add  the  vegetables,  as  carrots,  turnips, 
cabbage,  etc. ;  cook  these  till  they  are  tender,  but  no  longer. 
If  parsley,  thyme,  or  other  sweet  herb  is  used,  add  it  as  a 
rule  a  short  time  before  finishing,  as  much  cooking  destroys 
its  flavor. 

4.  Keep  the  pot  or  stew-pan  closely  covered;  and  where 
it  is  convenient,  shake  instead  of  stirring. 

5.  In  mutton  stews,  brown  the  meat  at  the  start,  if  you 
want  the  dish  particularly  savory. 

6.  Make  vegetable  stews  (without  meat)  as  follows  :  Add 
a  little  warm  water  to  the  gravy  after  it  is  thickened,  and 


520  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

the  flour  well  incorporated  by  heating;  then   put   in   the 
vegetables,  and  cook  till  tender. 

7.  If  an  onion  (or  carrot  or  turnip)  is  added  for  its  flavor, 
to  either  meat  or  vegetable  stews,  slice  it  into  the  hot  drip- 
ping, and  heat  till  it  changes  color;  then  thicken  with  the 
broAvned  flour,  add  a  little  warm  water,  heat  gently,  stirring 
well,  and  put  in  the  meat  or  vegetables. 

8.  In  adding  vegetables  for  the  purpose  of  flavoring,  as 
onions,  celery,  parsley,  summer  savory,  thyme,  or  other  sweet 
herbs,  consult  the  palates  of  those  who  eat,  before  using 
them;  some  persons  have  a  special  dislike  for  one  or 
more  of  these  substances.  Another  good  rule,  is  to  use 
them  in  moderation;  a  taste  of  a  thing  is  better  than 
a  surfeit;  and  the  mere  suggestion  of  a  flavor,  even  the 
most  delicate,  is  usually  preferred  to  one  that  is  more  pro- 
nounced. 

The  above  directions  are  of  course  general,  and  often- 
times it  may  be  necessary  to  depart  somewhat  from  them; 
in  a  great  many  meat  stews,  the  thickening  of  flour  is  either 
deferred  to  the  end,  as  a  sort  of  finishing,  or  it  is  omitted 
altogether.  The  rules  applicable  to  all  stews  are,  never  to 
start  raw  meats  in  cold  water;  never  to  put  cold  cooked 
meats  into  boiling  water  to  warm  them  over;  never  to  fill 
up  with  any  but  boiling  water;  to  stew  slowly;  to  keep  the 
pot  well  covered.  Bones  left  from  a  previous  roast,  if  per- 
fectly sweet,  may  be  laid  on  top  of  the  stew,  and  removed 
after  an  hour's  time. 

Browned  Flour,  Gravies,  Etc. 

What  is  known  to  cooks  as  "  browned  "  flour,  is  prepared 
in  this  way:  Spread  white  flour  on  a  clean  tin  plate  or 
granitized  iron  pan,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven;  when  it  be- 
gins to  tinge  in  color,  stir  constantly  till  it  becomes  an  even 
brown;  it  must  not  scorch  in  the  least.  Then  remove  from 
the  oven,  and  when  cold  put  it  into  glass  jars  or  bottles, 


PART  IH.J  MEAT    STEWS,  ETC.  521 

and   close  from  the  air.     Shake  before  using,  to  prevent 
lumping. 

Good  gravy  is  made  by  stirring  into  meat  liquor  enough 
browned  flour  to  thicken  moderately,  and  then  bringing  it 
to  a  boil ;  there  must  be  no  lumps.  If  a  cream  gravy  is 
wanted,  stir  the  flour  into  half  a  cup  (more  or  less)  of 
cream,  then  add  it  to  the  meat  liquor,  and  boil  up  a  mo- 
ment. Or  you  may  make  a  gravy  from  bones  (as  heretofore 
described),  or  from  lean  meat,  raw  or  cooked;  or,  take  the 
drippings  (fresh,  or  a  day  old)  of  a  roast,  remove  the  grease, 
and  strain  the  gravy  in  the  bottom  if  there  is  any  sediment; 
if  too  strong,  dilute  with  warm  water  before  using  it.  If 
you  make  from  cooked  meat,  or  bones  left  from  a  roast  or 
stew,  add  cold  water,  simmer  slowly  till  the  juices  are  all 
given  out,  then  cool  the  liquor,  strain  and  thicken.  If  from 
raw  meat  (the  trimmings  of  a  steak  will  do),  pound  it,  cut 
into  small  bits,  and  heat  in  a  stewr-pan  over  a  very  moderate 
fire.  Cover  closely,  and  stir  often  to  keep  the  meat  from 
sticking;  it  must  not  scorch.  In  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes, 
or  when  it  is  fairly  browned,  add  boiling  water  (a  pint  of 
the  latter  to  a  pound  of  meat),  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  two 
or  three  hours.     When  done,  cool,  settle,  and  strain. 

Breakfast  Stew. 

A  stew — as  good  for  dinner  as  breakfast — that  can  be 
prepared  on  short  notice,  after  you  "  get  home  from  meet- 
ing," or  from  down  town  shopping,  is  made  as  follows: 
Buy  your  meat  the  day  before ;  two  or  three  pounds  of  beef 
or  mutton,  either  good  sirloin  (removing  the  superfluous 
fat),  or  the  poorer  parts,  as  you  can  afford  ;  cut  it  in  small 
bits,  about  an  inch  in  length.  Then  put  a  little  dripping 
into  a  pot,  slice  in  an  onion  and  carrot,  and  a  turnip  if  you 
have  it,  and  heat  till  the  vegetables  change  color.  Now  put 
in  the  meat,  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and 
stew   very   slowly  two  hours,  or  till  the  meat  is    tender. 


522  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.         [PART  III. 

Then  lift  from  the  fire,  pour  all  into  an  earthen  or  granite 
ized  iron  basin,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Next  morning,  or  whenever  you  want  it,  add  to  the  meat, 
if  you  like,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  or  other  sweet  herb, 
put  the  whole  into  a  pot  or  stew-pan,  and  simmer  covered, 
half  an  hour;  no  water  should  be  added.  Then  stir  in  a 
spoonful  of  browned  flour  wet  with  tepid  water,  let  it  boil 
up  once,  and  dish  into  the  tureen.  Serve  with  baked  or 
mashed  potato,  and  warm  corn  bread. 

If  you  have  cold  biscuits,  split  them  open,  and  half  toast 
in  the  oven — or  you  may  brown  some  slices  of  stale  loaf 
bread — put  these  into  a  dish,  and  pour  the  stew  over;  if  the 
latter  is  too  thick  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  cream,  and  heat  just 
to  boiling  before  you  set  it  off. 

Mutton  Stew. 

Take  three  or  four  pounds  of  mutton  or  lamb,  trim  off 
most  of  the  fat,  and  cut  into  inch  or  two-inch  bits;  a  rib 
piece  is  good,  the  bones  being  chopped  in  short  lengths;  or 
the  neck  or  breast  will  do.  Start  the  meat  in  boiling  water, 
enough -to  nearly  cover,  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and 
stew  very  slowly,  keeping  the  lid  on.  Add  a  sliced  onion, 
and  cook  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  till  about  tender;  if  you 
like  parsley,  thyme,  or  other  sweet  herb,  put  it  in  finely 
chopped  ;  and  if  any  filling  up  has  to  be  done,  add  a  little 
boiling  water.  Then  drop  in  some  small  bits  of  light  cream 
paste,  cover  closely,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes;  take  out  the 
meat  and  dumplings,  put  them  into  a  hot  tureen,  fit  on  its 
lid,  and  set  in  a  warm  place.  Thicken  the  gravy  in  the  pot 
with  a  spoonful  or  two  of  browned  flour,  wet  with  half  a 
cup  of  cold  milk  or  cream;  boil  up  a  moment,  pour  it  over 
the  dumplings  and  meat,  and  send  the  dish  to  the  table. 

Another  way  is  to  leave  out  the  dumplings  and  flour,  add 
a  pint  of  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and  cook  twenty 
minutes. 


PART  III.  J  MEAT    STEWS,  ETC.  523 

Still  another  method,  if  you  have  a  little  cold  dripping,  is 
to  heat  the  latter  till  hot,  slice  in  the  onion,  and  a  carrot  if 
liked  ;  put  in  the  meat,  heat  till  it  is  moderately  browned, 
stirring  frequently,  and  covering  between  times  ;  it  must 
not  scorch.  Then  add  the  boiling  water,  enough  to  cook  it, 
and  when  sufficiently  tender  put  in  the  corn,  or  a  few  peeled 
potatoes,  and  stew  till  they  are  done;  if  the  corn  is  not  ad- 
ded, thicken  with  browned  flour  at  the  last. 

Mutton  Stew  with  Carrots. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  little  dripping,  or  you  may  take  a 
bit  of  fresh  suet;  wThen  hot,  slice  in  an  onion  or  two,  and  a 
few  carrots;  these  must  be  scraped,  and  if  large,  quartered. 
AYhen  the  vegetables  have  changed  color  a  little,  take  them 
out,  and  lay  in  the  mutton,  which  should  be  rather  lean;  a 
brisket  or  other  plain  piece  wdll  do.  Let  this  brown  slightly, 
turning  it  on  all  sides  ;  then  put  back  the  vegetables,  add 
boning  water  to  half  or  two-thirds  cover,  and  stew  moder- 
ately till  tender;  do  not  boil  with  the  lid  off.  It  will  require 
an  hour  and  a  half,  or  longer  if  the  piece  of  meat  is  large  ; 
there  should  be  very  little  liquor  when  done. 

Irish  Stew. 

Take  three  pounds  of  rather  lean  beef,  or  a  scrag  of  mut- 
ton, cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and  add  boiling  water  to  about 
two-thirds  cover  ;  you  may  lay  the  bones  on  top.  Kemove 
any  scum  that  rises,  and  then  slice  in  one  or  two  onions  ; 
keep  the  pot  covered,  and  stew  or  simmer  one  hour,  or  till 
the  meat  is  almost  tender.  Then  take  out  the  bones,  drain 
the  liquor  into  a  bowl,  and  skim  off  the  grease.  Have  ready 
some  potatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  about  the  same  quantity 
there  is  of  meat.  Put  into  a  separate  kettle  or  sauce-pan  a 
layer  of  the  beef  or  mutton,  and  follow  with  one  of  sliced 
potatoes  ;  repeat  the  layers  until  all  are  in,  sprinkling  each 
with  a  little  thyme  or  parsley,  if  it  is  liked.      Pour  in  the 


524  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

skimmed  gravy,  cover  closely,  and  stew  half  an  hour ;  if 
there  is  not  enough  of  the  gravy  add  a  very  little  boiling 
water,  or  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cold  gravy  diluted  with 
water.  After  the  pot  begins  to  bubble,  you  may  drop  in  a 
few  bits  of  light  paste  ;  it  will  cook  in  twenty  minutes. 
When  done,  lift  all  into  the  tureen. 

Scotch  Stew. 

Put  three  pounds  of  mutton  cutlets  into  a  pot,  and  add  a 
pint  of  boiling  water;  skim  when  ready,  and  slice  in  two  or 
three  onions.  Stew  slowly  one  hour,  or  until  the  meat  is 
nearly  tender;  then  add  six  or  eight  potatoes,  peeled,  and 
cut  through  the  middle.  If  more  water  is  needed  pour  in 
a  little,  boiling  hot,  lay  on  the  lid,  and  stew  till  the  potatoes 
are  done;  it  will  take  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Dish 
into  a  hot  tureen,  cover,  and  send  to  the  table;  the  stew 
should  be  tolerably  moist  at  the  end. 

Beef  may  be  used  instead  of  mutton;  lamb  is  better 
than  either. 

Beef  and  Tomato  Stew. 

Take  three  or  four  pounds  of  good  beef,  streaked  with 
fat;  a  rib  piece  is  excellent.  Put  it  into  a  pot,  and  heat  till 
well  seared  and  slightly  browned;  do  not  let  it  scorch;  then 
add  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover,  and  stew  slowly  till  done ; 
it  may  take  an  hour  and  a  half.  If  a  little  ruling  up  is 
needed,  add  the  water  boiling  hot.  After  putting  on  the 
meat  peel  five  or  six  ripe  tomatoes,  slice  very  thin,  and  start 
them  to  stewing  in  a  porcelain  kettle;  cook  rather  slowly, 
stirring  quite  often;  it  will  require  perhaps  an  hour,  as  they 
must  stew  till  perfectly  smooth.  Then  thicken  the  sauce 
with  a  little  browned  flour,  wet  to  a  smooth  paste  in  cold 
water;  stir  this  in  and  cook  ten  minutes;  you  will  have  to 
use  the  spoon  frequently  till  the  sauce  is  finished.  When 
the  meat  is  done  let  the  water  all  evaporate,  and  brown  the 
surface  moderately,  the  same  as  a  pot  roast;  then  lift  it  to  a 


PART  III.  J  MEAT    STEWS,  ETC.  525 

hot  platter,  drain  the  gravy  into  a  bowl,  and  skim  off  most 
of  the  grease.  Turn  the  tomato  and  gravy  together,  heat 
and  stir  till  the  two  are  well  incorporated,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  the  meat. 

Mutton  may  be  served  in  the  same  way  ;  and  so  may 
beef's  tongue.  The  sauce  may  be  made  of  canned  toma- 
toes rubbed  through  a  colander,  and  cooked  a  shorter  time. 

Mutton  and  Tomato  Stew. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  two  or  three  pounds  of  mutton  or 
lamb  cutlets;  slice  in  an  onion,  set  the  pan  over  the  fire, 
and  let  the  meat  sear  and  slightly  brown  on  one  side;  then 
turn  and  brown  the  other.  Have  ready  two  or  three  raw 
tomatoes,  not  too  large;  peel,  slice  and  chop  them,  put  them 
in  a  porcelain  kettle  (not  a  common  iron  pot,  as  tomatoes 
corrode  it),  and  add  the  meat,  with  whatever  juices  may 
have  escaped  in  the  searing  process.  Set  the  kettle  where 
it  will  simmer  slowly  one  hour,  or  till  the  meat  is  almost 
tender;  then  pour  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  or 
(if  you  use  canned  tomatoes)  half  a  cup  of  hot  tomato 
juice.  Turn  the  meat  once  or  twice,  and  cook  from  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes  longer ;  then  lay  it  on  a  platter,  thicken 
the  gravy  with  a  little  browned  flour,  or  some  bits  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  boil  up  a  moment,  and  pour  it  over. 
If  preferred,  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  before  stewing, 
and  when  done  lay  it  on  dry  toast,  or  cold  biscuits  split 
open,  and  partly  toasted  in  a  hot  oven;  then  thicken  the 
gravy,  and  pour  it  over  them. 

Beef -steak  may  be  stewed  in  the  same  way;  a  round  or 
flank  steak  will  do,  though  it  requires  longer  to  cook. 

Okra   Stew. 

Put  into  the  kettle  a  piece  of  beef  or  mutton,  washed, 
and  rubbed  over  with  a  trifle  of  flour.  Add  two  quarts  of 
sliced  tomatoes,  and  half  as  many  young   okras,  cut  fine; 


526  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  HI. 

then  slice  in  two  or  three  onions;  no  water  is  needed.  Cook 
in  a  porcelain  kettle  keeping  it  closely  covered,  and  stew  as 
slowly  as  possible,  or  rather  simmer  till  the  meat  is  done;  it 
will  require  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours.  If  the  okras 
are  small  and  tender,  you  need  not  slice  them;  simply  clip 
off  the  tip  ends,  wash  well  and  drop  into  the  pot. 

Boiled   Dinner. 

3  quarts  boiling  water. 

1  small  head  winter  cabbage. 
8  potatoes,  medium  size. 

4  beets, 

4  turnips,  "  " 

3  parsnips,        "  " 

2  carrots,  "  " 

3  lbs.  beef  or  mutton — the  brisket  is  good. 
Time — two  hours. 

Twist  the  tops  from  the  beets,  and  wash  thoroughly  with 
a  cloth,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  skin  or  rootlets;  if 
these  are  broken,  the  juices  will  escape  in  cooking.  Cover 
the  meat  with  two  quarts  of  the  boiling  water,  and  heat  till 
the  scum  rises;  then  remove  the  latter,  add  the  beets,  and 
the  carrots  scraped  and  quartered,  and  simmer  slowly. 
Prepare  the  other  vegetables,  peeling  the  potatoes  and  tur- 
nips, and  cutting  all  (except  the  potatoes)  into  quarters. 
When  the  meat  has  cooked  an  hour  and  ten  minutes,  lift  it 
to  a  platter  along  with  the  beets  and  carrots;  put  an  old 
plate  or  saucer,  inverted,  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  and  lay 
back  the  meat  and  vegetables.  Add  the  other  quart  of 
boiling  water,  drop  in  the  turnips,  cabbage  and  parsnips, 
and  after  fifteen  minutes  the  potatoes.  Boil  rather  briskly 
half  an  hour,  or  until  the  vegetables  are  done;  then  take 
them  up,  put  them  in  separate  dishes,  and  lay  the  meat  on 
a  plate  by  itself;  or  you  may  place  it  in  the  center  of  a 
large  platter,  and  arrange  the  vegetables  around  it. 


PART  III.]  MEAT    STEWS,  ETC.  527 

Instead  of  the  brisket  or  other  piece,  a  sheep's  head  and 
feet  are  sometimes  used. 

Cold  Meat  Stew. 

Mince  cold  beef  or  mutton,  laying  aside  the  gristle,  or 
other  undesirable  bits.  Drop  these  (the  bits)  and  the  bones 
(cracked)  into  a  pot,  add  a  little  cold  water,  and  slice  in  an 
onion  if  you  like  its  flavor.  Cover  closely,  and  stew  or 
rather  simmer,  at  least  thirty  minutes.  Then  strain  the 
liquor,  return  it  to  the  pot,  add  the  minced  meat,  and  any 
gravy  left  over;  there  should  be  enough  to  make  the  stew 
pretty  moist;  too  wet  for  an  ordinary  hash.  Cover,  and 
heat  almost  to  bubbling;  if  you  have  a  few  cold  potatoes, 
slice  them  in.  Then  simmer  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  keeping 
the  lid  on,  and  stirring  once  or  twice;  add  a  spoonful  of 
chopped  parsley  if  liked,  and  lift  from  the  fire. 

In  these  cold  meat  stews,  success  depends  upon,  first, 
putting  only  good  materials  into  .  them ;  second,  adding 
enough  of  the  essence  or  juices  of  meat  to  prevent  their 
tasting  "flat";  and  then — not  cooking  them  too  much. 
Simply  heat  till  the  stew  is  smoking  hot  all  through,  and 
the  different  flavors  well  blended  together.  In  preparing 
the  above  dish,  you  can  if  preferred,  slice  the  meat  thin 
instead  of  mincing  it.  Or  if  you  have  any  tough  bits  of 
uncooked  steak,  it  may  be  stewed  till  perfectly  tender  in  a 
little  water,  cooking  very  slowly  with  the  pot  closely  covered; 
let  it  get  quite  cold,  then  hash  fine,  and  add  half  as  much 
cold  potato,  also  hashed ;  take  for  the  gravy  the  liquor  left . 
from  stewing. 

Breakfast  Stew  with  Toast. 

Take  the  remains  of  a  roast  or  stew,  slice  it  very  thin — 
always  across  the  grain — and  chop  fine;  add  a  spoonful  or 
two  of  cold  gravy  if  you  have  it,  diluting  with  water;  or 
you  may  make  a  gravy  of  the  bones,  as  in  the  last  recipe- 


528  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

Put  the  hashed  meat,  moistened,  into  a  stew-pan  or  skillet, 
and  add  a  parboiled  onion  (sliced)  if  you  like  it,  or  a  little 
of  any  of  the  sweet  herbs,  chopped  fine;  heat  rather  slowly 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or  till  the  mass  is  thoroughly  hot, 
stirring  often.  Then  pour  in  half  a  cup  of  cream  or  new 
milk  thickened  with  browned  flour,  stir  all  together,  cover 
closely,  and  when  the  stew  begins  to  boil  remove  it  from 
the  fire.  Have  ready  a  few  slices  of  dry  toast,  or  split  open 
some  cold  biscuits  and  half  brown  them  in  the  oven ;  lay 
these  on  a  plate,  pour  the  stew  over,  and  send  to  the  table. 
Cold  beef-steak  may  be  cooked  in  a  little  water  till  very 
tender,  and  when  cold,  chopped  fine;  return  it  to  the  pot, 
along  with  its  liquor,  and  add  any  cold  gravy  left  over,  or  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  meat  juice  taken  from  the  bottom  of 
fresh  dripping,  if  you  have  it.  Heat  till  hot,  and  then  stir 
in  part  of  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  thickened  with  browned 
flour;  let  all  come  just  to  a  boil,  and  pour  the  stew  over  dry 
toast,  or  stale  biscuits  split  open  and  heated  through  in  the 
oven. 

Cold  Meat  and  Tomato  Stew. 

Cut  the  cold  meat,  beef  or  mutton,  into  inch  bits;  then 
crack  the  bones,  add  a  pint  or  more  of  cold  water,  stew 
gently  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  strain  the  liquor,  of 
which  there  should  be  a  cupful.  Pour  it  into  a  porcelain 
or  granitized  iron  kettle,  and  add  tomatoes,  peeled,  sliced 
and  chopped — or  you  may  use  canned  ones — half  as  much 
as  there  is  of  the  prepared  meat;  then  put  in  the  latter, 
adding  if  liked,  an  onion  or  carrot  thinly  sliced;  lay  on  the 
lid,  and  simmer  gently  one  hour,  stirring  now  and  then.  If 
the  stew  is  still  rather  thin,  thicken  it  a  trifle  with  browned 
flour  wet  in  cold  water,  heat  up  a  moment,  and  remove  from 
the  fire.  Fragments  of  uncooked  meat,  as  tough  steak,  may 
be  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  stewed  in  the  same  way,  only 
twice  as  long. 

Another  way  is  to  slice  the  meat  very  thin,  cutting  across 


PART  III.  ]  MEAT    STEWS,  ETC.  529 

the  grain,  and  chopping  fine;  then  peel,  slice  and  chop  some 
tomatoes,  not  too  ripe;  you  will  need  about  half  as  much 
tomato  as  meat.  Put  these  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  and 
while  thev  are  heating  prepare  an  equal  quantity  of  bread- 
crumbs; when  the  tomatoes  are  hot  add  the  chopped  meat, 
and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cold  gravy.  Mix  these  together, 
and  put  in  the  crumbs;  then  cook,  covered,  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  frequently.  This  is  an  excellent  dish;  you 
can  vary  it  by  adding  with  the  meat  a  few  cold  sliced  pota- 
toes, and  less  crumbs;  then  heat  as  before,  till  all  are 
smoking  hot. 

Another. — Peel  some  tomatoes,  and  slice  them  very  thin; 
slice  the  cold  meat  as  thin  as  a  shaving,  and  sprinkle  flour 
lightly  over  it;  have  about  half  as  much  tomato  as  meat. 
Put  these  into  a  porcelain  or  granitized  iron  kettle,  add  a 
sliced  onion  or  carrot,  and  a  little  meat  juice  saved  from  a 
pot  roast;  simmer  slowly  one  hour,  keeping  the  kettle  well 
covered.     Stir  occasionally,  and  dish  as  soon  as  done. 

Economic  Stew. 

Put  into  a  pot  a  knuckle  of  young  beef,  add  a  quart  of 
boiling  water,  and  start  to  cooking;  remove  any  scum  that 
rises.  Then  slice  an  onion  into  a  hot  skillet  with  some  chip- 
ping in  it,  cover  and  heat,  stirring  once  or  twice,  till  the 
onion  changes  color;  add  a  little  boiling  water,  slice  in  two 
or  three  carrots,  lay  on  the  lid,  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Turn 
these  into  the  pot,  cover  closely,  and  stew  or  simmer  very 
slowly,  three  hours,  or  until  the  meat  is  ready  to  slip  from 
the  bone.  In  finishing,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley  or 
other  sweet  herb,  if  desired.  Then  dish,  thicken  the  gravy 
with  a  trifle  of  browned  flour,  boil  up  a  moment,  and  pour  it 
over  the  joint.  Or  you  may  have  ready  some  slices  of  toast, 
place  the  meat  on  it,  and  pour  the  gravy  over. 


530  health  in  the  household.  [part  iil 

Economic  Stew. 

Cover  a  hock  or  shank  of  beef  with  boiling  water,  and 
place  over  the  fire;  do  this  soon  after  breakfast,  allowing 
three  or  four  hours  to  cook.  Slice  in  an  onion,  carrot  or 
turnip,  or  all  three  if  desired,  and  stew  very  slowly  until 
the  meat  is  about  tender;  then  add  a  stalk  of  celery  if  you 
have  it,  or  a  little  chopped  parsley,  thyme  or  other  sweet 
herb;  also  peel  and  put  in  half  a  dozen  potatoes,  cutting 
them  through  once  or  twice  if  they  are  large.  As  soon  as  a 
fork  will  go  through  them,  lay  in  some  bits  of  stale  loaf 
bread,  or  dry  toast;  cover  the  pot  five  minutes,  then  dish 
all  together. 

Chicken  or  Squirrel  Stew. 

Take  two  young  chickens  or  two  squirrels,  dressed  and 
cut  in  joints;  six  or  eight  tomatoes,  peeled  and  quartered; 
six  ears  of  young  corn,  cut  from  the  cob  (use  a  sharp 
knife,  shave  thin,  not  cutting  down  too  deep,  and  scrape  out 
at  the  last);  one  pint  of  butter  beans,  or  Limas;  two  small 
onions,  sliced  very  thin;  one  gallon  of  water,  not  quite 
boiling. 

Put  the  chickens  (or  squirrels)  into  a  kettle,  add  the 
water,  and  heat  till  you  can  remove  the  scum;  then  put  in 
all  the  vegetables  except  the  corn  and  tomatoes,  and  stew, 
or  rather  simmer,  two  hours;  add  the  tomatoes,  and  cook 
slowly  another  hour;  then  the  corn,  and  stew  half  an  hour 
longer.  If  not  thick  enough,  stir  in  one  or  two  rolled 
crackers  before  dishing  into  the  tureen. 

HASHES  AND  TOASTS. 

A  dish  of  hash,  usually  so  common-place,  can  easily  be 
made  one  of  the  most  savory  of  meat  preparations;  this  too, 
without  the  aid  of  salt,  pepper,  butter  or  other  condiment, 


PAKT  III. J  HASHES   AND    TOASTS.  531 

save  the  pieces  of  the  meat  itself.  Unfortunately,  these 
mixed  dishes  are  too  often  anything  but  creditable  to  the 
cook;  they  are  neither  clean,  palatable,  nor  wholesome;  and 
they  are  not  in  the  least  attractive.  There  is  no  good  rea- 
son, however,  why  they  should  not  be  both  clean  and  palat- 
able, and  as  wholesome  as  other  meat  dishes — in  which 
case  there  would  be  less  need  to  disguise  their  defects  by 
the  addition  of  pungent  condiments.  In  making  hashes, 
note  carefully  the  following: 

1.  Put  no  meat  into  the  hash  that  you  would  not  willingly 
chew  and  swallow  before  it  is  minced;  in  other  words, 
throw  out  all  the  hard,  gristly,  skinny  bits;  leave  no  big 
lumps  of  solid  fat,  and  no  stringy,  unsightly  pieces.  Make 
the  hash  either  of  good  lean  meat,  or  meat  that  is  streaked 
more  or  less  with  thin  layers  of  well-made  fat. 

2.  Slice  every  part  very  thin;  the  lean  meat  always  across 
the  grain  or  fiber,  and  the  fat  pieces  shave  exceedingly  thin, 
and  chop  fine. 

3.  Chop  all  well  together,  making  the  hash  as  fine  as 
mince-meat;  leave  no  large  bits  or  "chunks"  to  contend 
with. 

4.  Have  the  stew-pan  thoroughly  clean,  and  your  chop- 
ping-bowl  the  same. 

5.  If  you  put  in  meat  juice  saved  from  a  roast,  see  that  it 
is  sweet;  take  the  fat  from  the  top,  and  all  the  sediment 
from  the  bottom  of  it;  or  if  the  meat  is  very  lean,  you  may 
save  just  a  little  of  the  fat — or  add  a  lump  of  fresh  butter. 

6.  If  cold  potatoes  are  used,  see  that  not  a  single  one  or 
piece  of  one  goes  in,  that  you  would  object  to  eating  before 
it  becomes  part  of  the  dish  in  hand. 

7.  In  adding  raw  potatoes  slice  and  chop  them,  and  cook 
five  to  seven  minutes  in  very  little  water  before  turning  them 
in  with  the  meat. 

8.  Should  bread  be  put  in,  trim  off  any  burnt  or  half  raw 
portions,  if  such  there  be,  in  or  around  the  loaf  ;  grate  it 

35 


532  HEALTH   IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

very  fine,  and  add  after  the  meat  and  potato  are  well  heated 
through. 

9.  If  water  is  needed,  put  it  in  at  the  start,  boiling  hot ; 
and  not  so  much  of  it  as  to  make  the  hash  sloppy. 

10.  Add  the  different  ingredients  in  the  following  order  : 
First,  put  into  the  pot  the  gravy  or  meat  juice,  this  latter 
diluted  with  water;  slice  in  the  onion  (if  used),  and  heat 
slowly  ten  minutes,  to  partly  cook  it;  then  add  the  chopped 
meat,  and  heat  again;  then  the  parboiled  potatoes,  stirring 
them  well  through  the  mass,  with  more  heating  ;  lastly,  the 
crumbs,  and  &  final  heating  and  stirring — the  pot  to  be  kept 
covered,  as  closely  as  possible. 

11.  After  all  are  in,  cook  the  hash  ten  to  fifteen  minutes, 
or  long  enough  to  make  the  whole  mass  steaming  hot,  and 
to  blend  the  different  flavors  well  together  ;  stir  frequently. 

12.  Serve  as  soon  as  done,  with  mashed  or  baked  po- 
tatoes. 

With  these  precautions,  your  dish  of  hash  will  not  need 
an  apology. 

Beef  ok  Mutton  Hash.^ 

Take  cold  beef  or  mutton,  roasted,  stewed  or  boiled,  and 
slice  it  very  thin,  cutting  across  the  grain  or  fiber;  throw 
out  any  hard,  gristly  bits,  or  other  undesirable  portion.  If 
there  is  much  fat  take  only  the  best  of  it,  and  no  more  than 
is  needed;  be  sure  you  shave  it  as  thin  as  possible.  When 
all  the  meat  is  sliced,  mix  the  fat  and  lean  together,  and 
chop  fine;  if  you  have  a  bowl  of  fresh  dripping,  the  gravy 
in  the  bottom — which  it  is  well  to  save  for  hashes — may  be 
diluted  with  water,  and  used  to  moisten.  If  you  have  none, 
crack  the  bones  after  the  meat  is  off,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan,  add  the  rejected  pieces  (all  clean,  of  course),  a  sliced 
onion  if  liked,  and  a  pint  of  cold  water;  stew  slowly,  half 
to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  strain  the  liquor,  and  set 
it  by  for  the  hash.  You  may  add  to  the  meat  stale  bread- 
crumbs, or  potatoes,  or  both,  combining   these  in  various 


PART  in.]  HASHES   AND    TOASTS.  533 

proportions.  The  following,  however,  is  one  of  the  best 
combinations  that  you  can  make  ;  though  some  like  less 
cruinbs,  and  some  none  at  all: 

Have  one  part  hashed  meat,  one  part  stale  bread-crumbs, 
and  one  of  raw  chopped  potato.  Put  into  a  pot  the  liquor, 
strained  from  the  bones;  or  (if  you  have  it),  the  gravy  left 
from  a  roast,  first  removing  the  grease  from  the  top,  and 
the  sediment  from  the  bottom;  a  third  of  a  cup  of  it  ought 
to  be  sufficient  for  a  quart  of  the  meat.  Dilute  the  gravy 
in  the  pot  with  enough  boiling  water  to  make  the  meat 
pretty  moist;  but  before  putting  in  the  latter,  slice  in  an 
onion  if  you  like  its  flavor,  lay  on  the  lid,  and  cook  ten  min- 
utes; then  add  the  meat,  cover  closely,  and  heat  again,  stir- 
ring once  or  twice.  In  the  mean  time  put  the  chopped  po- 
tato into  a  separate  vessel,  add  just  a  little  boiling  water, 
and  cook  five  to  seven  minutes  ;  have  ready  the  bread- 
crumbs grated  fine,  using  good  home-made  Graham  loaf, 
unsweetened.  When  the  potatoes  are  done  enough  (they 
should  be  about  half  cooked),  turn  them  in  with  the  meat, 
and  stir  well  together;  let  these  get  steaming  hot  before  you 
add  the  bread.  Then  cover  again  and  heat  thoroughly, 
stirring  several  times;  cook  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  or 
till  the  several  ingredients  are  well  blended  together  ;  then 
dish  into  a  tureen,  cover,  and  send  to  the  table.  The  hash 
should  be  rather  dry  when  done  ;  serve  with  baked  or 
mashed  potato. 

Hash  with  Cold  Potatoes.^ 

In  making  hash  you  can  use  cold  boiled  potatoes,  but 
they  are  not  as  good  as  raw  ones,  chopped  and  parboiled. 
If  the  cold  ones  have  been  boiled  in  their  "jackets"  remove 
the  skins,  trim  off  any  imperfect  spots  or  ends,  and  throw 
out  the  wet  ones;  if  you  do  not  do  this  you  will  spoil  the 
hash.  You  can  make  it  of  meat  and  potato,  leaving  out  the 
bread;  but  if  you  have  a  bit  of  stale  loaf,  put  it  in.    When 


534  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  in. 

no  bread  is  used,  take  as  much  potato  as  there  is  meat ; 
some  like  twice  as  much,  provided  there  is  plenty  of  cold 
gravy  to  moisten  ;  in  the  absence  of  this,  you  may  have  to 
use  a  bit  of  fresh  butter. 

Cut  the  meat  in  thin  slices,  always  across  the  grain,,  and 
chop  fine;  put  the  gravy  into  a  stew-pan,  add  a  little  boil- 
ing water,  and  slice  in  one  or  two  onions,  if  liked  ;  cover 
closely,  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Then  add  the  meat,  cover 
again,  and  let  it  get  well  heated  through  ;  then  the  potato, 
stirring  well  together,  and  laying  on  the  lid.  Continue  the 
cooking  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  or  long  enough  to  make  all 
very  hot,  and  to  blend  the  flavors  thoroughly;  stir  often. 

A  good  breakfast  dish  is  made  as  follows  :  Make  a  fine 
hash  of  beef's  tongue  (some  use  corned  beef),  and  cold  po- 
tato, using  the  liquor  in  which  the  tongue  was  boiled,  to 
moisten;  then  cook  as  before.  You  can  have  more  potato 
than  meat,  if  you  like  ;  and  a  little  onion  sliced  and  par- 
boiled, may  be  added  if  desired. 

Baked  Hash.^ 

Take  cold  beef,  mutton  or  lamb,  or  some  of  each,  slice  it 
very  thin  across  the  grain,  and  chop  fine  ;  moisten  with  a 
little  cold  gravy  or  meat  juice,  from  sweet  dripping;  and  if 
you  like  an  onion,  slice  it  as  thin  as  possible,  and  parboil 
ten  minutes  before  putting  it  in.  Prepare  some  stale  bread- 
crumbs from  good  home-made  Graham  loaf,  if  you  have  it; 
there  should  be  about  as  much  bread  as  meat.  Stir  all  to- 
gether; and  if  the  gravy  added  does  not  make  the  mixture 
wet  enough — it  should  be  rather  moist — add  a  very  little 
boiling  water,  and  stir  well.  Put  the  hash  into  an  iron 
bread-pan,  smooth  the  top  nicely,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  it  should  be  slightly  browned  or 
crusted,  top  and  bottom. 


tart  iii.]  hashes  and  toasts.  535 

Hash  Bolls. 

Prepare  the  meat  as  for  an  ordinary  hash,  chopping  it 
very  fine ;  you  can  moisten  with  a  spoonful  of  cold  gravy  or 
meat  juice,  if  you  have  it;  add  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed 
potato  (fresh  is  best),  and  the  same  of  stale  bread-crumbs 
finely  grated,  and  soaked  in  milk  or  cream.  Work  all  well 
together  with  the  hand,  make  into  rolls  about  three  inches 
long  and  half  the  thickness,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes.  Or  you  may  spread  the  hash  smoothly 
in  a  well-oiled  bread-pan,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  ;  when 
browned  in  the  bottom  turn  it  into  a  flat  dish,  the  crusted 
side  uppermost,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Cold  fish  may  be  picked  up,  mixed  with  fresh  mashed  po- 
tato and  a  few  fine  bread-crumbs  (the  latter  soaked  in  milk), 
and  baked  in  the  same  way. 

Minced  Jjamb. 

Cut  the  cold  meat  from  the  bones,  slice  it  very  thin,  and 
chop  fine ;  then  crack  the  bones,  put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  other  rejected  bits,  or  a  chop  left  over,  and  cover  with 
cold  water;  slice  in  an  onion  if  you  like  it.  Simmer  about 
an  hour,  then  strain  the  liquor,  and  thicken  it  a  trifle  with 
browned  flour  moistened  with  milk  or  cream.  Keturn  it  to 
the  pan,  add  the  meat,  and  a  little  cold  chopped  potato  ; 
cover  closely  and  heat  till  very  hot,  stirring  once  or  twice  ; 
the  hash  must  not  be  too  moist.  Serve  with  dry  toast,  or 
eggs  and  toast. 

If  there  are  no  bones  to  make  the  gravy,  add  a  little  cold 
gravy  or  meat  juice  diluted  with  water,  or  half  a  cup  of 
milk  or  cream,  and  thicken  as  before.  Beef  or  mutton  left 
over,  may  be  similarly  prepared. 

Minced  Turkey. 
Take  a  sharp  knife,  slice  the  meat  thin,  and  chop  it  fine. 
Then  crack  the  bones,  put  them  into  a  pot  with  the  neck, 


536  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL- 

skin,  and  other  inferior  pieces,  nearly  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  simmer  half  an  hour.  Strain  out  the  liquor  (there  may 
be  a  cupful),  thicken  it  with  browned  flour  wet  with  milk 
or  cream,  bring  just  to  a  boil,  and  set  it  off.  When  half 
cold,  put  in  the  minced  turkey,  and  if  there  are  a  few  bits 
of  dressing,  add  them;  if  the  mixture  is  not  wet  enough, 
stir  in  a  little  cream  or  milk;  it  should  be  pretty  moist. 
Cover  the  pot,  and  heat  slowly  till  it  is  ready  to  boil ;  stir 
once.  Then  lift  from  the  fire,  and  pour  the  stew  over  a 
plate  of  stale  biscuits  split  open,  and  crisped  in  a  hot  oven. 

Beef  and  Tomato  Hash. 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  minced  beef,  raw  chopped 
tomatoes,  and  fine  bread-crumbs  of  stale  Graham  loaf;  the 
meat  should  be  sliced  thin,  and  chopped  fine.  Fill  an 
earthen  or  granitized  iron  pan  two  or  three  inches  deep, 
with  layers  of  these,  in  the  following  order  :  First  tomatoes, 
then  crumbs,  then  meat;  two  layers  of  each  will  nearly  fill 
the  dish;  then  add  another  of  tomatoes.  Before  putting 
in  the  meat,  moisten  it  with  a  little  cold  gravy  if  you  have 
it;  some  like  a  spoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  mixed 
with  the  hash.  If  canned  tomatoes  are  used  drain  off  the 
syrup,  and  take  part  of  this  to  moisten  the  crumbs.  Cover, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  an  hour  and  a  half — 
though  a  thinner  hash  will  bake  in  less  time.  Serve  with 
boiled  or  mashed  potato. 

Another  way,  very  good,  is  to  prepare  equal  quantities  of 
chopped  tomato  and  stale  bread-crumbs,  and  as  much  meat 
as  there  is  of  these  put  together  ;  the  meat  should  be  sliced 
very  thin  and  chopped  fine.  Then  heat  the  tomatoes  thor- 
oughly, stir  in  the  crumbs  and  meat,  and  add  a  spoonful  or 
two  of  cold  gravy  ;  cover  closely,  and  cook  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes.     Stir  several  times,  and  dish  as  soon  as  done. 


part  iii.]  hashes  and  toasts.  537 

Hash  and  Macaroni. 

Break  the  macaroni  into  inch  lengths,  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan, and  barely  cover  with  boning  water;  stew  twenty  min- 
utes. In  the  mean  time  hash  the  meat,  and  peel  and  chop 
some  tomatoes;  there  should  be  nearly  as  much  tomato  as 
meat,  though  less  will  do.  When  the  macaroni  is  done 
drain  it,  saving  the  water  in  which  it  boiled;  then  fill  an 
earthen  dish  with  layers  of  tomato,  meat  and  macaroni,  add- 
ing them  in  the  order  named;  moisten  the  meat  with  part 
of  a  cup  of  cold  gravy,  if  you  have  it.  Or  if  there  are 
bones,  start  them  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  simmer,  covered, 
half  an  hour;  then  strain  the  liquor,  and  moisten  with  this. 
When  all  are  in,  pour  over  the  whole  the  water  saved  from 
the  macaroni  (of  which  there  may  be  half  a  cup),  and  if 
there  is  too  much  moisture,  sprinkle  over  a  light  layer  of 
very  fine  bread-crumbs,  dry  and  stale,  or  some  rolled  crack- 
ers. Cover,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  forty  to  fifty 
minutes. 

Hash  with  Onions. 

Cut  the  meat  in  short  lengths;  or  you  may  slice  it,  not 
very  thin,  and  chop  moderately.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  part 
of  a  cup  of  cold  gravy,  or  the  meat  juice  saved  from  a 
roast;  and  if  the  hashed  meat  is  rather  lean,  add  to  the 
contents  of  the  pan  a  little  fresh  butter,  or  dripping.  Heat 
till  hot,  and  slice  in  several  onions;  let  these  cook  till  they 
change  color,  and  then  add  nearly  a  cup  of  boiling  water, 
or  enough  to  make  the  hash  pretty  moist.  Now  put  in  the 
meat,  and  stir  all  well  together;  you  may  add  also,  if  you 
have  them,  a  few  bits  of  cold  potato.  Cover,  and  heat  ten 
minutes,  or  till  the  hash  is  very  hot,  stirring  several  times; 
then  turn  into  the  tureen.  This  is  a  convenient  dish  for 
wash-days,  as  it  needs  little  preparation. 


538  HEALTH    IN   THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART   III 

Hash  Toast.— (Good.)# 

1  quart  hashed  meat. 

J  cup  cold  gravy  or  meat  juice. 

-J  cup  sweet  cream. 

J     "    warm  water. 

1  teaspoonful  browned  flour. 

Dish  of  sliced  bread,  toasted. 

Slice  the  meat  very  thin,  chop  it  fine,  and  mix  the  browned 
flour  through  it.  Dilute  the  cold  gravy  with  the  warm 
water,  turn  it  into  a  stew-pan,  and  add  the  meat;  cook 
slowly  ten  minutes,  stirring  once  or  twice.  Then  set  the 
pot  back  where  it  will  cool  a  little;  after  ten  minutes  stir  in 
the  cream,  heat  almost  to  boiling,  and  the  toast  being  ready, 
pour  the  hash  over  it. 

Another  way  is  to  make  the  hash  a  little  drier,  using  all 
water  instead  of  part  cream;  when  it  is  finished  and  poured 
over  the  toast,  break  an  egg  over  each  of  the  slices,  and 
then  heat  in  the  oven  till  the  whites  are  set. 

Milk  Toast.  4f 

Good,  home-made  Graham  loaf,  two  or  three  days  old 
(always  unsweetened),  makes  the  best  toast.  Slice  it  evenly, 
and  scarcely  half  an  inch  thick;  if  the  crust  is  scorched  in 
baking,  trim  off  the  burnt  edges.  Then  toast  each  piece  to 
a  light  even  brown,  on  both  sides;  do  not  hurry  the  proc- 
ess too  much,  or  you  will  simply  burn  the  surface,  leaving 
the  middle  portion  soft.  As  you  toast,  place  the  slices  on 
a  tin  platter,  and  set  where  they  will  keep  warm.  After 
finishing,  scrape  off  any  scorched  edges  with  a  knife,  dip 
each  slice  quickly  into  boiling  water,  and  lay  it  in  a  deep 
dish  or  tureen.  When  all  are  in,  pour  over  them  enough 
milk  heated  just  to  boiling,  to  almost  cover  the  whole.  In 
two  or  three  minutes  shuffle  the  slices,  leaving  the  hard, 
crusty  pieces  in  the  bottom,  and  the  better  soaked  on  top; 


PART  IU.]  HASHES   AND    TOASTS.  539 

do  this  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  them.  Then  cover  the 
dish,  and  send  to  the  table.  If  properly  managed,  the  milk 
will  nearly  all  be  soaked  up  by  the  time  the  toast  is  served; 
its  good  rich  flavor  will  be  better  preserved  than  where 
there  is  a  great  quantity  of  fluid,  and  the  bread  will  not  be 
too  soft  and  sloppy. 

Another  way  is,  not  to  dip  the  slices  in  boiling  water,  but 
to  lay  them  dry  into  the  dish,  and  set  in  a  warm  place; 
turn  together  equal  quantities  of  milk  and  water,  heat  the 
mixture  to  the  boiling  point,  and  pour  it  over.  There  should 
be  about  as  much  as  the  bread  will  absorb. 

Eggs  and  Toast.  4£ 

Slice  .the  bread,  good  home-made  Graham  loaf,  rather 
stale,  and  toast  to  a  light  brown  on  both  sides;  the  slices 
should  be  evenly  cut,  and  nearly  half  an  inch  thick.  When 
toasted,  set  in  the  oven  to  keep  warm.  Then  fill  a  skillet  or 
frying-pan  with  clean  hot  water,  and  place  over  the  fire; 
when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  break  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  into 
a  wet  saucer,  slip  carefully  in,  and  cook  till  the  whites  are 
set;  then  with  a. spoon  or  perforated  skimmer,  take  out  each 
egg,  and  lay  it  on  the  toast. 

An  excellent  dish  is  hash  toast  (already  given)  made  not 
very  wet,  and  a  poached  egg  laid  on  each  slice. 

Asparagus  Toast  with  Eggs. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  asparagus,  letting  it  lie  a  few  min- 
utes in  cold  water;  then  tie  it  in  little  bundles  and  boil  till 
tender,  in  water  enough  to  cover.  In  the  mean  time,  pre- 
pare from  stale,  home-made  Graham  loaf  a  dish  of  toast, 
evenly  browned,  and  set  where  it  will  keep  warm.  Wlien 
the  asparagus  is  done,  drain  off  and  save  the  water  in  which 
it  boiled,  and  moisten  the  toast  with  it;  do  not  make  too 
wet.     Then  clip  off  the  tender  ends  of  the  stalks,  and  lay 


540  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  HI. 

them  on  the  slices;  break  an  egg  over  each,  and  place  in  a 
hot  oven  till  the  whites  are  firm. 


EGGS. 

Fresh  eggs,  particularly  white  ones,  have  a  thin  rough 
shell  which  an  experienced  eye  will  know  at  sight.  As  they 
get  stale  the  shell  thickens,  and  becomes  smooth  and  shin- 
ing. To  tell  whether  an  egg  is  spoiled,  hold  it  up  between 
your  eye  and  a  lighted  candle;  if  not  good,  it  will  look 
clouded;  the  outline  of  the  yolk  will  not  be  distinct,  and 
the  white  not  clear — or  the  whole  mass  will  be  opaque. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

It  is  difficult  to  time  eggs,  if  more  than  two  or  three  are 
boiled  at  once;  when  there  are  a  dozen  or  more,  they  cool 
the  water,  so  that  you  will  have  to  count  from  the  moment 
it  begins  again  to  bubble.  Very  much  too  depends  upon 
the  size  of  the  eggs,  and  also  the  thickness  of  the  shells; 
the  clear  white  ones  (fresh),  are  thinner  than  the  buff- 
colored. 

Have  a  good  kettle  of  boiling  water  over  a  hot  fire,  and  drop 
the  eggs  in  with  a  spoon  to  prevent  breaking  them.  If  they 
cool  the  water  till  it  stops  boiling,  count  from  the  time  it  be- 
gins again;  and  if  wanted  soft,  cook  two  minutes  and  a  half — 
or  two  minutes,  if  the  eggs  are  small.  But  if  they  boil  from 
the  time  they  reach  the  water,  allow  two  minutes  and  a  half 
for  the  small,  and  three  for  the  larger  ones;  this  should 
coagulate  the  whites,  and  leave  the  yolks  soft.  If  liked 
neither  hard  nor  soft,  but  the  yolks  a  little  firm,  allow  three 
minutes  to  three  and  a  half,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
eggs.  If  you  wish  them  hard,  cook  ten  to  fifteen  minutes, 
or  even  longer;  some  say  half  an  hour;  the  longer  the  time, 
the  drier  and  more  mealy  the  yolks. 


PART  in.]  EGGS.  541 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs.  4^ 

Bring  the  water  to  a  boil ;  then  set  back  (or  off),  where 
it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  bubble.  Drop  in  the  eggs,  and  let 
them  remain  from  four  to  six  minutes  ;  those  with  thin 
shells  will  cook  first.  By  this  method  the  whites  do  not 
harden,  but  coagulate  to  a  jelly-like  consistency. — A  delicate 
dish  is  made  as  follows  :  mash  hot  potato  very  smooth, 
making  it  rather  soft  with  milk;  then  break  the  jellied  eggs 
over  it,  and  serve  immediately. 

Poached  Eggs.^ 

If  you  have  muddy,  river  water,  either  filter  it,  or  boil 
and  settle.  Place  over  a  hot  fire  a  clean  skillet  or  frying- 
£)an  nearly  full  of  water,  and  when  it  boils  set  it  up  a  mo- 
ment. Break  the  eggs  separately  into  a  wet  saucer,  and 
slip  them  in;  you  must  not  crowd  them.  Then  return  the 
pan  to  the  fire,  and  cook  moderately  three  to  four  minutes. 
Or  a  better  way,  it  may  be,  is  to  place  where  the  water 
(which  has  just  boiled)  will  keep  hot,  but  not  bubble;  let 
the  eggs  remain  in  it  five  to  seven  minutes,  or  till  the 
whites  are  cooked.  Then  lift  them  out  one  at  a  time,  with 
a  spoon  or  perforated  skimmer,  drain  well,  and  lay  in  a  hot 
dish,  or  on  dry  toast. 

Baked  Eggs. 

Break  into  an  oiled  pie-pan  as  many  eggs  as  it  will  con- 
veniently hold,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  till  the  whites  are 
fully  set,  and  the  yolks  as  done  as  desired;  then  slip  to  a 
plate,  and  serve.  Or  you  may  break  the  eggs  into  small 
vegetable  dishes,  bake,  and  serve  without  lifting. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Oil  the  skillet  with  a  little  clean  dripping,  and  place  it 
over  the  fire ;  break  the  eggs  into  a  saucer  (one  at  a  time,  to 
avoid  bad  ones),  and  then  turn  them  into  a  bowl,  being 
careful  not  to  break  the  yolks.     When  the  skillet  is  pretty 


542  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIL 

hot  but  not  scorching,  pour  in  the  eggs;  and  the  moment 
they  begin  to  whiten,  turn  them  up  from  the  bottom  with 
the  end  of  a  knife.  Continue  this  process,  turning  as  fast 
as  they  cook,  till  the  mass  is  sufficiently  done;  then  lift  to  a 
hot  dish,  and  serve  immediately. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Pour  into  a  deep  earthen  pie-pan  half  a  cup  of  thin 
cream,  and  let  it  come  almost  to  a  boil.  Then  break  in  the 
eggs,  being  careful  not  to  disturb  the  yolks;  when  they 
begin  to  whiten,  separate  with  a  knife  by  cutting  between 
them,  and  then  scrape  up  from  the  bottom  as  they  cook.  Have 
the  heat  moderate,  else  the  eggs  will  cook  too  fast,  and  take 
from  the  fire  before  they  are  quite  done,  still  turning  from 
the  bottom  as  you  lift  the  pan.  They  should  be  in  large 
flakes  of  white  and  yellow,  delicately  blended,  and  yet  sep- 
arate. 

Omelet. 

You  can  make  an  omelet  of  three  eggs,  or  twice  the  num- 
ber; but  the  larger  it  is,  the  more  difficult  to  make  it.  The 
better  way,  therefore,  is  to  make  two  small  ones,  rather  than 
a  large  one;  the  eggs  (or  at  least  the  yolks)  must  not  be 
beaten  too  much;  and  the  omelet  must  be  served  as  soon  as 
done.     The  following  is  said  to  be  an  excellent  recipe : 

Break  three  eggs  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  gently  till  you 
can  dip  up  a  spoonful;  then  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  milk  or 
cream.  Put  into  a  frying-pan  a  little  fat  from  sweet  drip- 
ping, or  a  bit  of  fresh  butter;  heat  till  the  oil  commences  to 
sputter  or  hiss,  and  then  pour  in  the  omelet.  When  it  be- 
gins to  bubble  and  rise  in  flakes,  lift  with  a  fork  by  dipping 
the  latter  in  here  and  there,  and  raising  the  mass  from  be- 
low. Persevere  in  this  lifting  process,  by  which  the  cooked 
portions  are  brought  to  the  surface,  and  the  raw  egg  is  let 
down  to  the  bottom.  In  three  to  five  minutes  the  whole 
will  be  sufficiently  done,  and  the  under  surface  firm  enough 


paet  in.]  EGGS.  543 

to  adhere  together.  Shake  the  pan  a  little,  to  loosen  it,  run 
a  knife  under  one  half  of  the  omelet,  and  fold  it  over  on 
itself;  then  slide  it  out  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve. 

Omelet.^ 

Beat  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs,  the 
former  just  till  they  are  smooth,  and  the  latter  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Stir  into  the  yolks  half  a  cup  of  milk — new,  if  you 
have  it;  some  add  a  sprinkle  of  chopped  parsley;  then  stir 
in  the  beaten  whites;  oil  a  frying-pan,  heat  till  it  is  hot,  and 
pour  in  the  omelet.  As  it  cooks  shake  constantly,  instead 
of  stirring;  and  if  it  inclines  to  stick  to  the  pan,  loosen  with 
a  knife  around  the  edges,  or  lift  it  up  gently  from  the  bot- 
tom. The  moment  the  omelet  is  done  enough,  slip  the 
knife  under  one  side,  turn  adroitly,  folding  one  half  of  it 
over  the  other,  and  slide  to  a  hot  plate. 

Another  way,  well  recommended,  is  to  beat  separately  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs,  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Then  take  a  cup  of  milk,  and  a  good  tablespoonful  of  flour; 
form  a  batter  with  the  flour  and  part  of  the  milk,  stir  in  the 
remainder,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  and  mix  all  well  together. 
Then  stir  in  the  whites,  beating  well,  and  bake  on  two  small 
griddles,  well  oiled  and  hot.  As  soon  as  sufficiently  cooked 
fold  each  omelet  on  itself,  and  (if  necessary)  set  in  the  oven 
a  moment  at  the  last;  if  not  quite  done,  they  will  fall.  Some 
omit  the  flour;  and  the  moment  the  omelet  is  done  enough 
fold  it  twice,  forming  a  sort  of  roll;  in  serving,  cut  across  it. 

Aspaeagus  Omelet. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs  together,  add 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  good  milk,  and  half  a  cup  of  cold 
asparagus  tops  ;  or  you  may  use  cold  cauliflower,  chopped 
fine.  Stir  all  together,  and  turn  the  omelet  into  a  pan,  well 
oiled  and  hot ;  shake,  as  it  forms  or  thickens  at  the  bottom, 
and  loosen  with  a  knife  or  cake-turner,  if  it  adheres.     Fold 


544  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

on  itself  when  done,  by  turning  one  half  over  on  the  other; 
then  invert  the  pan  over  a  hot  plate. 

PEACTICAL  HINTS. 

DlNING-BoOM   AND    KlTCHEN. 

No  room  is  fit  to  live  in  that  has  not  a  free  circulation  of 
dry  air  under  it,  and  at  some  hour  of  the  day  a  stream  of 
sunshine  into  it.  If  possible,  plan  your  house  so  as  to  let 
into  the  kitchen  and  dining-room  the  morning  sun  ;  it  will 
warm  and  cheer  in  winter,  and  in  summer  it  will  be 
less  oppressive  than  the  noonday  heat,  and  less  sultry 
than  an  afternoon  sun.  In  the  very  warmest  weather  the 
shutters  may  be  closed,  or  partly  closed;  or  a  tree  near  by 
with  thick  foliage,  may  cast  its  friendly  shadow  in  mid- 
forenoon. 

Let  the  ceilings  be  high  (eleven  or  twelve  feet  would  not 
be  too  much),  and  let  the  windows  be  raised  and  lowered 
by  means  of  pulleys.  If  this  can  not  be  done,  then  have 
them  so  adjusted  that  both  windows — there  should  be  two 
in  each  room — can  not  only  be  raised  from  the  bottom,  but 
lowered  from  the  top.  If  there  is  a  transom  above  the  out- 
side door  of  the  kitchen,  have  a  spring  fastened  to  it  for 
opening.  By  means  of  these  simple  appliances,  the  hot  air 
can  be  let  out,  and  the  cold  air  let  in  ;  thus  securing  thor- 
ough ventilation,  with  none  of  the  close  bad  smells  that  are 
so  often  found  in  the  rear.  A  good  big  ventilator  just 
above  the  stove  or  range,  is  also  desirable;  this  carries  off  a 
stream  of  hot  air,  and  cooler  currents  take  its  place.  Many 
a  poor  woman — perhaps  a  wife  and  mother — has  been  sent 
to  the  insane  asylum  from  living  in  a  hot  close  atmosphere, 
in  a  small  kitchen  with  only  one  window,  and  a  very  low 
ceiling. 

After  what  has  just  been  said,  it  would  scarcely  be  neces- 
sary to  add,  that  basement  kitchens  are  as  a  rule  insuffer- 


PAKT  III.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  545 

able.  The  lack  of  sunshine,  the  poorer  ventilation,  and 
worst  of  all,  the  dampness  that  pervades  all  basements,  were 
enough  certainly  to  condemn  them.  Besides,  a  kitchen 
down  stairs  is  exceedingly  inconvenient,  even  with  an  ele- 
vator; the  cook  must  either  live  in  the  basement  (having 
everything  brought  to  her),  which  is  a  sort  of  prison  life 
or  she  must  climb  the  stairs  many  times  every  day. 

The  best  floor  for  a  kitchen  and  dining-room,  is  one  of 
smooth  hard  wood,  well  oiled;  this  will  show  no  grease  spots 
and  it  is  easily  kept  clean.  A  good  thick  rug,  laid  in  front 
of  the  kitchen  table  for  the  cook  to  stand  on  in  winter,  will 
keep  her  feet  warm;  she  can  lift  and  shake  it  each  morning, 
when  she  sweeps.  The  outside  door  should  be  weather- 
stripped  at  the  bottom  (and  up  the  side  if  necessary),  to 
keep  out  cold  draughts  of  air.  The  dining-room  should 
have  its  own  fire-place  or  register,  and  not  depend  upon  the 
kitchen  for  its  heat ;  for  along  with  the  warm  air,  the  odors 
from  that  quarter  will  also  find  admittance. 

The  character  of  the  purse-holder,  is  not  unfrequently 
shown  in  the  furnishing  of  the  dining-room  and  kitchen, 
particularly  the  latter.  To  do  first-class  cooking  without 
suitable  utensils  and  other  accommodations,  is  next  to  im- 
possible; and  if  these  are  wanting  it  is  evidence  either  of 
bad  judgment,  penuriousness,  or  downright  poverty.  It  is 
a  common  saying,  therefore,  that  in  the  furnishing  of  a 
house,  one  should  begin  in  the  rear. 

To  be  brief,  then,  the  dining-room  and  kitchen  should  be 
light,  airy,  clean,  and  well  furnished  ;  they  should  also  be 
sufficiently  roomy,  both  in  lateral  dimensions,  and  in  height. 
In  a  sanitary  point  of  view,  as  well  as  for  cleanliness,  the 
air  in  these  apartments  should  be  pure.  It  is  a  fact  too  lit- 
tle understood,  that  water  and  other  liquids,  and  even  semi- 
fluid substances,  as  stewed  fruits,  juicy  vegetables,  etc.,  have 
the  power  of  absorbing  foul  gases  from  an  impure  atmos- 
phere, to  such  an  extent  as  to  render  them  half  poisonous; 


546  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

from  which  it  follows,  that  the  disagreeable  odors  escaping 
from  filthy  dish-cloths,  grease  burning  on  the  top  of  the 
stove,  musty  old  carpets,  pans  of  stale  garbage,  foul  drain- 
pipes, etc.,  are  not  only  breathed  by  the  inmates  of  the  house, 
but  they  are  actually  eaten ! 

Look  to  it,  then,  that  the  plumbing  is  in  the  best  of  order, 
and  the  sink  kept  scrupulously  clean.  Have  no  dogs  lying 
round  the  stove,  and  not  very  many  cats  or  kittens;  these,  as 
a  general  rule,  do  not  improve  the  sanitary  condition  of 
things.  In  the  kitchen,  every  inch  of  the  floor  (especially 
if  it  be  carpeted),  should  be  well  kept,  and  well  swept;  and 
the  woodwork  and  furniture  in  both  dining-room  and 
kitchen,  ought  to  be  as  carefully  dusted  and  cared  for,  as  any 
in  the  house.  These  rooms  should  be  thoroughly  aired, 
every  morning  ;  and  through  the  day  the  kitchen  should 
have  as  few  occupants  as  possible,  especially  in  the  winter 
season,  when  the  ventilation  is  less  perfect.  Moreover,  the 
cook,  whose  presence  is  absolutely  necessary,  should  be  par- 
ticularly careful  as  to  personal  cleanliness,  bathing,  change 
of  clothing,  etc.;  nothing  indeed  is  more  desirable,  than 
that  this  individual  should  be  scrupulously  neat  in  all  her 
habits. 

As  respects  the  dining-room,  the  table  linen  should  be 
changed  as  often  as  necessary  ;  and  when  soiled  it  should 
be  washed  by  itself,  and  well  ironed.  There  is  as  much  in 
the  neatness  and  order  with  which  every  thing  comes  to  the 
table,  as  in  the  quality  of  the  furnishing;  and  any  defect  in 
the  former,  is  even  less  excusable  than  the  latter. 

In  hygienic  households,  the  manner  of  setting  the  table 
differs  somewhat  from  the  ordinary  methods.  As  there  is 
neither  tea  nor  coffee,  there  are  no  cups  and  saucers,  and  of 
course  no  serving  of  the  beverages  named.  In  their  stead 
will  be  found  at  breakfast  or  supper,  a  dish  of  stewed  or 
canned  fruit,  which  is  served  from  the_  head  of  the  table, 
and  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal.     The  only  liquid  that  is 


PART  III.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  547 

ever  passed — and  this  can  scarcely  be  called  a  beverage — is 
grape  or  other  fruit  juice,  served  in  goblets,  and  sipped  or 
eaten  with  bread,  or  plain  cake.  A  dish  of  raw  fruit,  as  ap- 
ples, peaches  or  grapes,  is  usually  served  at  breakfast,  and 
eaten  the  first  thing  on  sitting  down  to  table ;  and  grapes, 
pears,  or  small  fruits,  are  often  served  at  supper.  Oranges 
and  bananas,  if  taken  at  the  regular  meal,  are  served  at 
dinner.  These  dishes  (or  baskets)  of  raw  fruit,  usually 
occupy  the  center  of  the  table  ;  and  when  tastefully  ar- 
ranged with  green  leaves  and  bright  rosy  fruit,  handsomely 
draped  with  rich  clusters  of  grapes,  they  are  as  ornamental 
as  they  are  palatable. 

Really,  there  is  no  table  more  attractive,  or  more  truly 
artistic,  than  that  which  is  laden  with  the  simple  products 
of  the  soil;  it  brings  together  in  choice  combination,  the 
golden  grains  variously  prepared,  the  luscious  fruits  fresh 
from  the  trees  and  vines,  and  those  rarest  of  gifts,  the 
fragrant  flowers,  wet  with  the  dews  of  the  morning.  It  not 
only  feeds  the  hungry  stomach,  giving  strength  to  every 
part  of  the  body,  but  it  satisfies  a  something  in  our  nature3 
that  ranks  higher  than  mere  animal  existence. 

Table  Etiquette. 

Who  was  it  that  said,  "  Let  me  see  a  man  eat,  and  I  will 
tell  you  what  manner  of  bringing  up  he  has  had  ?  "  Whether 
or  not  this  be  strictly  true,  it  is  nevertheless  a  fact  that 
the  table  is  the  place,  of  all  others,  to  distinguish  between 
the  country  boor  (though  boors  are  not  confined  to  rural 
districts),  and  the  well-bred  gentleman  or  lady.  It  is  also 
the  place  where  true  innate  refinement  of  mind  and  heart, 
as  well  as  a  narrow,  depraved  selfishness,  has  opportunity 
to  display  itself.  For  while  there  are  certain  peculiarities 
or  customs  that  are  purely  arbitrary,  and  that  are  limited 
to  special  localities,  there  are  likewise  certain  principles  of 
36 


548  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

'good  breeding,  that  are  common  to  all  people  of  intelligence 
and  culture. 

It  is  not  enough,  therefore,  that  we  conform  to  a  particu- 
lar style  of  manners,  belonging  to  some  individual  city  or 
country  ;  outside  of  these  conventional  forms,  we  shall  find 
oftentimes  the  very  essence  of  true  politeness,  in  the  careful 
observance  of  those  simple  usages  and  customs,  which  in 
civilized  society  are  applicable  to  all  places  and  all  times. 
A  nice  appreciation  of  these,  is  to  a  great  degree  intuitive; 
though  very  much  can  be  instilled  into  the  mind,  by  thor- 
ough training  in  childhood. 

The  ever-watchful  mother,  who  desires  that  her  children 
as  they  grow  up,  shall  take  rank  among  the  best  in  the  so- 
ciety in  which  they  live,  will  not  fail  to  educate  her  sons 
and  daughters  in  these  seemingly  small,  but  really  impor- 
tant things.  She  will  teach  them  to  show  proper  deference  to 
older  people,  to  visitors,  or  strangers;  to  sit  down  at  table,  or  to 
rise  from  it,  noiselessly;  to  wait  patiently  until  helped  to  food; 
to  pass  dishes  to  others  before  helping  one's  self;  to  avoid 
appropriating  the  best — or  largest  piece — of  what  is  offered; 
to  take  from  the  plate  the  bit  lying  nearest,  leaving  the 
others  untouched;  to  ash  for  bread  or  other  articles,  rather 
than  reach  for  them.  She  will  also  instruct  each  one  to 
accept  (or  politely  decline)  the  thing  offered,  at  once,  making 
no  excuses,  and  no  awkward  delay;  to  decline  what  is 
not  wanted  in  so  gracious  a  manner,  that  its  refusal  shall 
seem  complimentary,  rather  than  otherwise  ;  to  avoid  jost- 
ling his  neighbor's  elbow,  or  passing  dishes  in  front  of  that 
individual's  plate;  to  sit  erect,  neither  too  near  the  table, 
nor  too  far  from  it;  and  if  it  is  necessary  to  move  one's 
chair,  to  do  it  quietly. 

It  is  said  to  be  easier  to  drill  a  regiment  of  soldiers,  than 
to  train  an  army  of  little  ones.  But  the  maternal  head  is 
supposed  to  be  equal  to  every  emergency;  she  must  be  all 
eyes,  and  all  ears — yes,  and  all  patience.     Fortunately,  labor 


PART  III.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  549 

and  love,  joined  with  untiring  perseverance,  usually  con- 
quers all  things ;  by  the  time  her  young  cadets  are  fully 
grown,  they  will  have  learned  how  to  handle  their  "  weap- 
ons "  properly.  Each  will  have  mastered  the  art — always 
so  difficult  at  first — of  holding  the  knife  and  fork  in  a 
proper  manner;  he  will  now  be  able  to  lift  his  food  with  the 
latter,  rather  than  the  former  ;  to  take  small  mouthfuls, 
"carrying  the  food  to  the  mouth,  not  the  mouth  to  the 
food;"  to  close  the  lips  while  masticating,  and  to  swallow 
each  mouthful  without  apparent  effort.  And  by  the  time 
he  is  ready  to  enter  society,  he  will  have  solved  the  mystery 
of  supping  his  soup  or  other  liquid  inaudibly;  of  eating 
without  dropping  his  food  on  the  table-cloth,  or  slopping 
(or  dragging)  it  over  the  edge  of  his  sauce-dish.  If  more 
food  is  wanted,  he  will  no  doubt  remember  the  instructions 
(oft  repeated),  to  ask  for  it,  and  always  in  a  polite  manner ; 
to  be  helped  moderately,  and  not  to  too  many  varieties  at  a 
time  ;  and  furthermore,  to  leave  little  or  nothing  on  the 
plate  when  done.  It  is  a  wasteful  and  slovenly  habit  among 
Americans,  that  of  leaving  the  plate  half  full  at  the  end  of 
the  meal — or  passing  it  in  that  condition  to  the  waiter,  in 
expectation  of  another  course. 

When  seated  at  table  avoid  tapping  the  plate,  rattling  the 
dishes,  playing  with  your  knife  and  fork,  or  leaning  with 
the  elbows  on  the  side  of  the  table;  and  on  no  account  so 
far  forget  yourself  as  to  put  your  own  knife  or  spoon  into 
the  dishes  near  you — or,  what  is  thoroughly  disgusting — to 
use  the  comer  of  the  table-cloth,  in  place  of  a  napkin ;  if 
this  little  convenience  is  wanting,  then  your  own  pocket 
handkerchief  would  be  the  only  admissible  substitute.  In 
using  the  napkin  be  sure  you  make  it  do  its  work  thorough- 
ly (this  to  gentlemen  who  wear  a  heavy  mustache),  then  fold 
it  neatly,  and  lay  it  beside  your  plate.  Whether  at  table  or 
elsewhere,  try  not  to  annoy  others  by  repeatedly  clearing 
the  throat ;    and  if  while  you  are  eating,  the  handkerchief 


550  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III, 

becomes  a  necessity,  endeavor  to  use  it  inaudibly,  and  in  as 
inconspicuous  a  manner  as  possible.  Before  rising  from  the 
table,  lay  your  knife  and  fork  on  your  plate,  placing  them 
side  by  side.  If  bits  of  food  have  lodged  between  the 
teeth,  defer  using  the  tooth-pick  until  after  you  have  left 
the  table;  then  follow  with  the  tooth-brush,  using  it  thor- 
oughly. Should  it  be  necessary  to  leave  the  table  before 
the  rest  are  done,  ask  the  lady  who  presides  at  its  head  to 
please  excuse  you ;  do  this  very  quietly,  and  as  politely  as 
possible.  The  hostess  in  like  manner,  should  grant  the 
favor  with  the  same  gentle  courtesy. 

All  well-bred  people  avoid  very  loud  or  boisterous  laugh- 
ing or  talking,  at  table  ;  they  also  discriminate  as  to  who 
should  take  the  lead  in  conversation,  giving  the  preference 
to  those  whose  age  or  superior  wisdom  entitles  them  to  it. 
Nor  will  a  person  who  has  been  well  brought  up,  rudely  in- 
terrupt another  while  he  is  speaking  (even  Indians  talk  one 
at  a  time),  or  contradict  his  statement  in  an  abrupt  or  ex- 
cited manner  ;  he  will  wait  patiently  till  the  other  has 
finished,  then  quietly  take  his  turn  in  the  conversation,  and 
if  he  entertains  opposite  views,  present  them  in  a  way  that 
will  not  give  offense  ;  one  can  be  thoroughly  in  earnest 
without  being  dogmatic,  or  in  the  least  discourteous.  More- 
over, it  is  a  rule  to  be  observed  in  conversing  at  table,  that 
questions  requiring  an  immediate  answer  be  put  at  the  proper 
interval ;  and  not  when  the  person  addressed  has  just  taken 
a  fresh  mouthful.  The  reason  of  this  is  obvious,  since  no 
one  of  any  sort  of  good  breeding  would  attempt  to  utter  a 
sentence  with  his  mouth  filled;  and  to  compel  him  to  do  so, 
or — what  is  even  more  embarrassing — to  oblige  him  to  con- 
sume half  a  minute  in  masticating  and  swallowing  his  food 
before  he  can  speak,  is  to  violate  one  of  the  first  rules  of 
etiquette. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  one  takes  his  food  hurriedly  and 
in  large  mouthfuls,  he  gives  no  opportunity  for  putting  the 


PAET  in.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  551 

question,  and  allows  himself  none  for  making  a  response. 
In  other  words,  he  makes  the  business  of  the  hour,  eating, 
not  talking.  This  may  be  excusable  under  certain  circum- 
stances; but  to  eat  habitually  at  railroad  speed,  is  to  deprive 
one's  self  of  a  vast  amount  of  pleasure  in  social  life,  whicli 
has  no  equivalent  in  mere  gustatory  enjoyment.  The  En- 
glish and  Scotch  jDeople,  and  indeed  most  foreigners,  seem 
to  understand  this  better  than  we;  they  make  the  hour  of 
eating  a  time  for  social  chit-chat,  in  which  the  pleasures  of 
the  appetite  are  more  than  equaled  by  the  feast  of  fellow- 
ship and  good  cheer,  that  gives  relish  to  the  plainest  viands. 
And  really,  there  is  no  good  reason  why  we  should  not  to 
a  certain  extent  imitate  their  example;  we  have  but  one  life 
to  live,  between  the  cradle  and  the  grave  ;  then  why  not 
enjoy  the  pleasures  of  home,  family  and  friends,  while  we 
have  them  ?  At  the  generous  board,  whence  the  wants  of 
the  body  are  supplied,  let  there  be  an  added  repast  to  feed 
the  hungry  soul.  Here  every  one,  from  the  oldest  to  the 
youngest,  should  be  put  upon  his  best  behavior,  bringing 
nothing  to  the  table  that  is  disagreeable  or  unwelcome.  Let 
the  troubles  and  trials  of  every-day  life  retire  into  the  back- 
ground ;  leaving  for  after  remembrance  the  cheerful  faces, 
the  social  gathering  and  the  kindly  words,  which  do  so 
much  to  make  up  the  sum  of  human  happiness,  and  to  bind 
the  members  of  the  household  together.  If  strangers  or 
friends  are  gathered  here,  let  this  be  the  time  and  place  to 
extend,  not  merely  the  common  courtesies  of  life,  but  large- 
hearted,  generous  hospitality.  The  very  poorest  can  give 
this  ;  not  in  rich  or  costly  viands,  but  in  the  warmth  of  a 
kindly  heart.  A  crust  of  bread  is  sweet,  if  offered  with  an 
open  hand. 

Housekeeping. 

There  is  entirely  too  much  embraced  in  the  term  "  house- 
keeping," to  be  set  forth  in  a  single  chapter;  and  it  may  be 
a  question  whether  the  discussion  of  a  theme  so  suggestive, 


552  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

should  be  undertaken  in  a  work  of  this  kind.  It  may  also 
admit  of  a  doubt,  whether  it  is  of  much  use  to  lay  down 
any  set  rules  in  regard  to  the  furnishing  of  a  house,  when 
we  take  into  account  the  fact  that  a  style  which  might  be 
in  every  way  suited  to  a  given  locality,  or  to  a  particular 
station  in  life,  would  be  wholly  unsuited  to  another.  There 
are,  however,  certain  things  pertaining  to  housekeeping, 
that  hold  good  at  all  times,  and  that  every  housekeeper 
ought  to  know.  Some  of  these  things  are  so  well  expressed 
in  that  excellent  work,  the  Buckeye  Cookery,  and  are  so 
thoroughly  fitting,  that  the  author  has  ventured  to  quote 
from  it,  verbatim  : 

"Housekeeping,  whatever  may  be  the  opinion  of  the 
butterflies  of  the  period,  is  an  accomplishment  in  compari- 
son to  which,  in  its  bearing  on  woman's  relation  to  real  life, 
and  to  the  family,  all  others  are  trivial.  It  comprehends 
all  that  goes  to  make  up  a  well-ordered  home,  where  the 
sweetest  relations  of  life  rest  on  firm  foundations,  and  the 
purest  sentiments  thrive.  It  is  an  accomplishment  that  may 
be  acquired  by  study  and  experiment,  but  the  young  and 
inexperienced  housekeeper  generally  reaches  success  only 
through  great  tribulation.  It  ought  to  be  absorbed  in  girl- 
hood, by  easy  lessons,  taken  between  algebra,  music  and 
painting.  If  girls  were  taught  to  take  as  much  genuine 
pride  in  dusting  a  room  well,  hanging  a  curtain  gracefully, 
or  broiling  a  steak  to  a  nicety,  as  they  feel  when  they  have 
mastered  one  of  Mozart's  or  Beethoven's  grand  sympho- 
nies, there  would  be  fewer  complaining  husbands,  and  un- 
happy wives.  The  great  lesson  to  learn  is,  that  work  well 
done,  is  robbed  of  its  curse.  The  woman  who  is  satisfied 
only  with  the  highest  perfection  in  her  work,  drops  the 
drudge  and  becomes  the  artist.  There  is  no  dignity  in 
slighted  work;  but  to  the  artist,  no  matter  how  humble  his 
calling,  belongs  the  honor  which  is  inseparable  from  all 
man's  struggles  after  perfection.     No  mother  who  has  the 


PART  III.  J  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  553 

happiness  of  her  daughter  at  heart,  will  neglect  to  teach 
her,  first,  the  duties  of  the  household;  and  no  daughter 
who  aspires  to  be  queen  at  home,  and  in  her  circle  of 
friends,  can  afford  to  remain  ignorant  of  the  smallest  de- 
tails that  contribute  to  the  comfort,  the  peace,  and  the 
attractiveness  of  home.  There  is  no  luck  in  housekeeping, 
however  it  may  seem.  Everything  works  by  exact  rule; 
and  even  with  thorough  knowledge,  eternal  vigilance  is  the 
price  of  success.  There  must  be  a  place  for  everything,  and 
everything  in  its  place;  a  time  for  everything,  and  every- 
thing in  its  time;  and  'Patience,  patience,'  must  be  written 
in  glowing  capitals  all  over  the  walls.  The  reward  is  sure. 
Your  husband  may  admire  your  grace  and  ease  in  society, 
your  wit,  your  school-day  accomplishments  of  music  and 
painting;  but  ail,  in  perfection,  will  not  atone  for  an  ill- 
ordered  kitchen,  sour  bread,  muddy  coffee,  tough  meats, 
unpalatable  vegetables,  indigestible  pastry,  and  the  whole 
train  of  horrors  that  result  from  bad  housekeeping.  On 
the  other  hand,  success  wins  gratitude  and  attachment  in 
the  home  circle,  and  adds  luster  to  the  most  brilliant  intel- 
lectual accomplishments. 

"One  of  the  first  ideas  the  young  housekeeper  should 
divest  herself  of,  is  that  because  she  is  able  or  expects  some 
time  to  be  able  to  keep  servants,  it  is  therefore  unnecessary 
to  understand  household  duties,  and  to  bear  their  responsi- 
bility. '  Girls '  are  quick  to  see,  and  note  the  ignorance,  or 
incapacity  of  the  mistress  of  the  house;  and  few  are  slow  to 
take  whatever  advantage  it  brings  them;  but  the  capacity 
of  a  mistress,  at  once  establishes  discipline." 

In  speaking  of  the  sanitary  conditions  of  the  house,  the 
same  author  remarks :  "  There  must  be  plenty  of  sunlight, 
floods  of  it  in  every  room,  even  if  the  carpets  do  fade;  and 
the  housekeeper  must  be  quick  to  note  any  scent  of  decay 
from  vegetables  or  meats  in  the  cellar,  or  from  slops  or 
refuse,  carelessly  thrown  about  the  premises.     Every  room 


554  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III, 

must  be  clean  and  sweet.  In  sickness,  care  in  all  these 
respects  must  be  doubled.  In  damp  and  chill  autumn  and 
spring  days,  a  little  fire  is  comfortable,  morning  and  even- 
ing. The  food  for  the  family  must  be  fresh,  to  be  whole- 
some; and  it  is  economy  to  buy  the  best,  as  there  is  less 
waste  in  it.  No  housekeeper  ought  to  be  satisfied  with  any 
but  the  very  best  cooking,  without  which  the  most  whole- 
some food  is  unpalatable,  and  distressing;  and  no  consider- 
ations of  economy,  should  ever  induce  her  to  place  on  the 
table  bread  with  the  slightest  sour  tinge,  cake  or  pudding  in 
the  least  heavy  or  solid,  or  meat  with  the  slightest  taint. 
Their  use  means  disease  and  costly  doctors'  bills,  to  say 
nothing  of  her  own  loss  of  repute,  as  an  accomplished 
housekeeper.  If  children  and  servants  do  their  work  im- 
properly, she  should  quietly  insist  on  its  being  done  cor- 
rectly; and  in  self-defense  they  will  soon  do  it  correctly, 
without  supervision.  Order  and  system  mean  the  stopping 
of  waste,  the  practice  of  economy,  and  additional  means  to 
expend  for  the  table,  and  for  the  luxuries  and  elegances  of 
life, — things  for  which  money  is  well  expended.  It  requires 
good  food  to  make  good  muscle  and  good  brain  ;  and  the 
man  or  woman  who  habitually  sits  down  to  badly  cooked 
or  scanty  dinners,  fights  the  battle  of  life  at  a  great  disad- 
vantage." 

The  Help. 

There  is  little  space  in  a  cook-book  for  lengthy  disserta- 
tions on  any  subject,  even  in  its  most  limited  and  practical 
sense.  But  there  is  one  matter  which  enters  so  deeply  into 
our  home  life,  and  which  so  nearly  touches  all  the  family 
interests,  extending  as  it  does,  from  attic  to  basement,  and 
from  parlor  to  kitchen,  that  it  can  not  on  any  account  be 
passed  by  in  silence.  Ask  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
wives  and  mothers  in  these  States,  reaching  from  Maine  to 
California,  what  it  is  that  gives  them  ceaseless  anxiety,  bur- 
dens them  with  care,  and  disturbs  the  peace  and  quiet  of 


PAKT  ni.]  PKACTICAL   HINTS.  555 

their  homes.  They  will  tell  you,  many  of  them  with  care- 
worn faces,  tired  limbs  and  toil-worn  hands,  that  the  one 
thing  which  money  can  not  purchase,  nor  a  good  home  se- 
cure, is  help!  In  eastern  cities,  where  there  are  more 
women  than  men,  the  supply  of  female  helpers  is  more 
abundant.  In  the  West,  however,  there  are  many  causes  at 
work,  which  tend  from  year  to  year  to  reduce  the  number. 

There  was  a  time  when  farmers'  daughters,  the  best  of 
them,  could  be  had  to  assist  with  house-work,  or  to  take  sole 
charge  of  it  if  necessary,  and  at  comparatively  small  wages. 
But  as  the  country  grew  older,  and  the  farmers  became 
well-to-do  and  more  intelligent,  their  daughters  were  sent 
to  school,  or  to  learn  dress-making,  or  some  other  trade.  In 
the  mean  time  the  tide  of  emigration  has  been  steadily  flow- 
ing in,  and  Biddy,  or  some  other  girl  from  a  foreign  shore, 
has  long  since  taken  the  place  of  the  farmer's  daughter;  she 
it  is  who  now  does  the  cooking,  washing,  ironing,  and  the 
house-work  generally,  or  it  is  left  to  colored  help,  or  to  the 
mistress. 

The  result  of  all  this  has  been,  that  the  situation  as 
helper  (or  "  servant,"  as  they  say  in  the  South  and  West),  is 
not  quite  respectable;  and  consequently  not  as  desirable  as 
it  was  formerly.  The  standard  has  been  lowered  ;  green 
Irish,  or  other  foreign  help,  is  not  on  a  par  with  the  intelli- 
gent, well-trained  mothers'  daughters  of  forty  years  ago. 
And  owing  to  the  dropping  off  of  this  latter  class  of  work- 
ers, together  with  the  increase  of  population,  there  is 
scarcely  an  adequate  supply  of  help,  even  of  indifferent 
quality.  What,  then,  are  the  legitimate  consequences  *? 
They  are  three-fold:  First,  a  rise  in  wages  ;  second,  a  diffi- 
culty in  obtaining  help;  third,  untrained  labor. 

Put  these  three  items  together,  and  what  follows  ?  Half  or 
two-thirds  of  the  housekeepers,  both  in  the  city  and  coun- 
try, have  either  to  do  their  own  work,  or  to  put  up  with 
help  that  is  thoroughly  incompetent,  and  at  the  same  time 


556  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

high-priced.  Is  the  statement  overdrawn?  Let  the  farm- 
ers' wives  in  the  Middle  or  Western  States,  and  the  wives 
of  mechanics  or  other  tradesmen  in  the  cities,  answer.  Ask 
them  if  they  can  get  competent  help,  or  any  help,  often- 
times, for  either  love  or  money. 

The  mistress  who  has  help  to-day,  may  be  without  it  to- 
morrow; her  neighbor  offers  higher  wages,  or  requires  less 
work  for  the  same  money,  and  the  girl  is  off.  In  other 
words,  the  employer  and  employe  have  changed  places ; 
the  latter  dictates  her  terms,  and  the  former  has  either  to 
accept  them,  or  to  "make  a  change,"  which  is  usually  a  thing* 
to  be  dreaded.  For  even  if  the  lady  is  fortunate  enough 
to  secure  help,  the  new  girl  will  have  to  be  drilled  in;  and 
if  things  do  not  happen  to  suit  her,  she  will  not  wait  for  the 
drilling;  she  will  simply  pick  up  her  bundle,  and  leave. 
She  knows  very  well  that  half  a  dozen  places  are  ready  for 
her,  some  of  which  will  no  doubt  be  easier  to  fill,  inasmuch 
as  there  will  be  less  work  to  do,  or  the  work  itself  can  be 
done  in  a  less  skillful  way.  Is  it  any  wonder  that  the  mis- 
tress comes  finally  to  tolerate  very  indifferent  service,  and 
as  little  of  it  as  she  can  get  along  with?  The  long  and  the 
short  of  the  whole  matter  is,  that  the  girls  are  on  the  look-out 
for  easy  places  (the  terms  will  take  care  of  themselves),  and 
the  poor  housewives  are  asking  each  other  if  there  is  such 
a  thing  as  competent  help. 

Now,  what  is  the  remedy  for  this  state  of  affairs  ?  There 
is  no  one  to  blame,  in  the  least — unless  it  be  the  employers 
themselves,  for  not  having  looked  into  the  matter,  long  be- 
fore this.  The  whole  difficulty  is  simply  in  the  relation  of 
supply  and  demand;  change  this,  and  the  evil  will  at  once 
disappear.  Is  there  not  some  way  of  producing  the  kind  of 
help  we  want,  and  enough  of  it  ?  Most  assuredly  there  is. 
We  have  but  to  establish  training  schools,  in  which  the 
"raw  recruits"  that  come  from  Ireland,  Germany,  Den- 
mark, Sweden,  anywhere,  shall  be  thoroughly  drilled  into 


PART  ni.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  557 

the  arts  of  American  housewifery.  Let  us  employ  compe- 
tent teachers,  whose  special  business  it  shall  be  to  instruct  the 
girls;  and  as  soon  as  the  latter  have  made  sufficient  prog- 
ress, grant  them  certificates,  stating  their  qualifications. 

The  requisite  amount  of  training  would  only  occupy  a 
few  months — though  some  would  learn  faster  than  others. 
The  " graduates "  would  of  course  get  situations  at  once; 
and  just  as  soon  as  the  supply  could  be  made  equal  to  the 
demand,  the  whole  perplexing  problem  would  be  solved. 
All  that  is  needed  is  to  make  competent  help  as  plentiful  as 
are  the  teachers  of  common  schools;  then,  none  but  the  de- 
serving could  expect  to  get  places,  and  the  wages  for  serv- 
ice would  not  be  exorbitant.  "What  the  normal  schools 
have  done  for  education,  the  training  school  for  helpers  will 
accomplish  for  our  households.  Is  it  not  about  time  that 
steps  were  taken  in  this  direction  ? 

The  Huckster  System. 

Happy  are  they  who  raise  their  own  vegetables,  and  eat 
them.  And  next  to  these,  in  the  enjoyment  of  field  and 
garden  luxuries,  are  the  people  who  dwell  in  country  towns 
large  enough  to  have  a  good  market;  for  though  the  prod- 
uce is  not  of  their  own  raising,  they  can  buy  it  directly 
from  the  farmers  themselves,  who  have  gathered  it  fresh 
only  the  day  before.  In  the  large  cities,  most  of  the  vege- 
tables have  to  pass  through  several  hands  before  they  reach 
the  consumers;  and  in  doing  so  a  good  deal  of  time  is  re- 
quired, and  the  articles  become  in  a  measure  stale.  True, 
in  most  eastern  cities  the  relation  of  supply  and  demand 
has  been  pretty  carefully  studied,  and  the  time  required 
for  actual  transportation  reduced  to  a  minimum;  so  that  in 
the  markets  there  is  not  only  an  excellent  variety  of  prod- 
ucts, but  these  are  in  relatively  good  condition. 

But  suppose  you  reside  in  a  southern  or  western  city, 
where  what  is  called  the  "  huckster  system  "  prevails.    Here, 


558  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

the  whole  country,  for  miles  around,  is  scoured  by  those 
middle  men,  the  hucksters,  who  gather  up  the  tender  vege- 
tables, cart  them  from  place  to  place  through  the  hot,  broil- 
ing sun,  then  keep  them  at  their  own  houses  till  all  have 
been  collected  together,  after  which  they  are  hauled  to  the 
nearest  depot,  or  the  city  market.  By  the  time  they  reach 
the  latter  place,  they  are  no  longer  fresh  and  sweet.  Once 
in  the  stalls,  however,  they  must  "  look  their  best "  to  pur- 
chasers; hence,  the  watering-pot  is  in  demand. 

But -where  are  the  multitudes  of  buyers,  who  would  no 
doubt  like  fresh  vegetables  for  dinner  ?  Evidently  they  are 
not  in  the  markets;  no,  they  are  sitting  quietly  at  home,  read- 
ing the  morning  paper;  for  rather  than  pay  a  high  price  for  a 
tasteless  and  comparatively  stale  article,  they  will  get  some- 
thing at  the  nearest  meat-stand,  and  make  a  dinner  on  old 
potatoes,  steak  and  onions,  and  whatever  else  can  be  **  pick- 
ed up."  This  conclusion  is  the  more  readily  arrived  at, 
from  the  fact  that  the  central  market  is  a  mile  or  two  away, 
and  not  (to  most  purchasers)  on  the  nearest  line  of  street 
cars;  and  two  hours  spent  (at  breakfast  time)  in  going  and 
coming,  with  a  heavy  basket  to  lug  to  the  nearest  car,  and 
then  to  your  own  door,  is  no  fun  on  a  sultry  morning  in 
June,  July,  or  August. 

It  follows,  therefore,  that  neither  fruits  nor  vegetables 
find  a  ready  sale  in  the  stalls;  the  housewife,  with  her 
morning's  work  to  look  after,  or  the  mother  with  her  little 
children  at  her  knee,  can  not  spare  the  time  to  go  half 
across  the  city  to  get  vegetables  for  dinner,  consuming  the 
best  hours  of  the  whole  forenoon.  But  what  becomes  of 
the  produce  in  the  market;  the  peas,  corn  and  asparagus; 
the  string  beans,  and  new  potatoes  ?  Why,  the  market-man 
sells  part  of  it  to  the  meat-man  at  the  corner;  another  por- 
tion he  must  try  to  sell,  himself;  but  failing  to  do  so,  he 
will  let  a  considerable  per  cent,  of  it  go  to  waste  in  his  stalls; 
the  balance  will  have  to  be  disposed  of  to  the  city  huckster, 


PAET  in.  J  PRACTICAL   HINTS.  559 

who  now  takes  his  turn  in  carting  these  "fresh  country 
vegetables"  through  the  hot  sun,  and  along  the  dusty 
streets,  and  crying  his  throat  sore  to  get  somebody  to  buy. 
He  will  find  more  purchasers  than  one  would  suppose,  par- 
ticularly among  the  boarding-house  people,  who  must  have 
something  to  put  on  their  tables;  then,  there  are  those  fami- 
lies that  live  in  out-of-the-way  places,  and  who,  rather  than 
do  without  vegetables  altogether,  will  take  such  as  they  can 
get. 

It  is  astonishing  how  much  of  this  second  and  third-rate 
material  accumulates,  even  in  the  hottest  months;  and  until 
this  is  disposed  of,  no  new  supplies  must  be  brought  in,  for 
fear  of  a  glut.  Besides,  a  single  car  load  of  actually  fresh 
produce,  would  spoil  the  sale  of  that  on  hand;  this  must  be 
disposed  of,  before  more  is  received.  Hence,  the  super- 
abundance of  stale  articles,  the  extreme  scarcity  of  newly 
gathered  vegetables,  and  the  high  prices  of  the  latter;  to 
say  nothing  of  the  death  roll  that  in  hot  weather  follows  the 
consumption  of  the  former. 

"What  is  to  be  done  ?  The  markets  in  these  cities  are  so 
few  in  number  compared  with  the  population,  and  at  the 
same  time  so  far  apart,  that  nine-tenths  of  the  people  never 
go  about  them;  moreover,  the  quality  of  the  produce,  as 
already  stated,  is  not  such  as  to  warrant  a  ready  sale;  so 
that  once  the  stalls  are  filled,  thej  are  likely  to  remain  so. 
This  being  the  case,  the  huckster  in  the  country  may  take 
his  time  in  gathering  in  the  next  supply;  the  peas,  corn  and 
asparagus  can  remain  in  the  field,  till  the  stock  on  hand  is 
more  nearly  exhausted.  Once  or  twice  a  week — three  times 
at  the  farthest — would  be  often  enough  to  make  this  forag- 
ing expedition,  from  the  simple  fact  that  there  is  really  no 
demand  at  the  other  end  of  the  route.  In  short,  the  garden 
products  grow  old  and  tough  in  their  beds,  get  stale  after 
they  are  gathered  by  standing  around  the  farm  houses,  and 
when  they  reach  the  city  through  heat  and  dust,  have  no 


560  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

higher  mission  to  perform  than  to  go  to  decay,  or  to  kill  the 
people  who  eat  them. 

Do  we  ask  the  remedy  ?  Let  us  take  a  hint  from  those  who 
have  learned  better.  In  the  first  place,  let  there  be  more 
market-houses;  more  points  of  distribution:  so  that  a  much 
larger  per  cent,  of  people  (who  now  dine  on  steak,  lettuce 
and  onions,  bought  at  the  family  meat-shop)  can  manage  to 
get  to  market,  and  make  their  own  purchases.  This  is  the 
first  step;  the  next  is,  to  bring  the  producer  and  consumer  as 
near  together  as  possible.  Let  the  vegetables  be  gathered  as 
soon  as  they  are  ready  for  use;  then  let  them  be  rapidly 
transferred  to  the  nearest  shipping  points,  and  thence  to 
the  markets,  where  they  will  be  quickly  sold  out  and  a  new 
supply  called  for.  By  such  an  arrangement  we  need  fear 
no  glut,  since  there  would  be  no  stagnation  at  any  point; 
and  with  this  healthy  activity  in  all  the  various  departments, 
the  supply  and  demand  would  necessarily  regulate  each 
other. 

Who  of  us  shall  live  to  see  the  desired  change  ;  the  time 
when  there  shall  be  no  over-stocked  markets ;  no  stale  or 
half  decayed  produce  in  the  stalls;  no  carting  of  the  same 
through  the  streets  of  the  city  to  get  rid  of  it;  no  cholera 
morbus  from  eating  stale  melons  or  fruits;  and  no  deaths 
among  infants  whose  mothers  have  dined  on  vegetables  that 
have  been  pulled  a  week  ?  Glad  enough  would  we  be  to  see 
the  end  of  a  system  in  which  there  is  neither  good  economy, 
good  sense,  nor  good  eating. 

Hints  on  Marketing. 

The  best  way  to  learn  how  to  market,  is  to  have  it  to  do 
for  a  season;  besides,  much  of  the  knowledge  thus  obtained, 
is  not  of  the  kind  that  can  be  acquired  second-hand.  The 
first  thing  that  you  have  to  learn,  is  not  to  make  your  pur- 
chases till  you  have  walked  once  through  the  stalls,  and 
seen  just  what  there  is  in  them;  then,  if  you  live  in  a  large 


PART  III. 


PRACTICAL    HINTS.  561 


city,  you  must  keep  your  wits  about  you,  and  look  out  for 
the  little  tricks  of  these  market  people;  for  example,  if  you 
are  buying  small  fruits,  do  not  let  them  serve  you  from  the 
rear  of  a  stale  heap,  because,  forsooth,  there  happens  to  be  a 
layer  of  fresh  berries  on  top.  Nor  must  you  be  coaxed  into 
buying  a  thing,  simply  because  the  market-man  (or  woman) 
says  it  is  so  and  so.  Learn  to  judge  for  yourself,  as  to  the 
quality  of  the  article;  and  if  you  have  any  doubts  in  regard 
to  its  excellence,  do  not  purchase.  If  you  are  not  an 
expert  at  this  business,  the  hints  given  below  on  the  se- 
lsction  of  fruits,  vegetables  and  meats,  may  perhaps  be  of 
service. 

String  Beans. — See  that  the  little  stems  are  green  and  ten- 
der; if  these  are  dry  and  shriveled,  the  beans  are  stale. 

Young  Peas. — Look  at  the  stems;  they  should  be  green 
and  unshriveled.  The  pods  are  not  an  infallible  guide  ; 
these  often  look  fresh  for  days  after  the  stems  are  shrunken. 

Beets. — Examine  the  tops;  both  leaves  and  stems  should 
he  perfectly  fresh;  and  the  roots  if  newly  dug,  will  be  firm 
to  the  touch. 

Cabbage. — First  look  at  the  stalk,  and  see  whether  it  is 
entirely  sound  ;  if  it  is  at  all  discolored,  the  cabbage  is  not 
the  best.  The  leaves  should  be  fresh  and  crisp,  and  free 
from  decay;  the  outer  ones  a  healthy  green,  with  no  yel- 
low, sickly  hue  about  them. 

Cauliflower. — When  this  vegetable  is  fresh,  the  flowers 
are  milk-white;  if  tinged  with  yellow,  it  is  stale;  if  brown, 
it  is  very  stale. 

Asparagus. — Asparagus  to  be  good,  must  be  cut  (or  snap- 
ped off  below  the  ground)  as  often  as  every  day,  or  every 
other  day,  at  the  farthest;  otherwise  the  stalks  will  be  tough. 
If  newly  gathered,  these  should  be  crisp  and  tender. 

Xew  Potatoes. — Potatoes  recently  dug,  are  firm  to  the 
touch;  if  unripe,  they  will  become  wilted  in  a  few  days,  and 
will  be  clammy  or  sticky  when  cooked. 


562  HEALTH   IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IEL 

Tomatoes. — Tomatoes  that  are  fresh  and  not  overripe,  are 
pretty  firm  to  the  touch;  if  soft,  they  are  either  too  ripe,  or 
too  long  off  the  vines.  In  hot  weather  they  get  stale  in  a 
short  time. 

Cucumbers. — Fresh  cucumbers  are  harmless  to  a  healthy 
stomach;  see  that  they  are  firm  to  the  touch,  and  green  and 
white  in  color— not  green  and  yellow. 

Lima  Beans. — These  ought  never  to  be  gathered  till  they 
are  milk-white  in  color — not  green.  If  stale,  they  will 
either  be  discolored  (a  sort  of  dingy  yellow),  or  they  will 
be  sending  out  sprouts. 

Green  Corn. — Green  corn,  like  young  peas,  ought  to  be 
cooked  and  eaten  the  day  it  is  gathered.  See  that  the 
grains  are  plump  and  unshriveled,  and  the  husks  green  and 
fresh.  If  young  enough,  the  milk  should  spirt  out  in  a  jet 
when  the  grains  are  pierced  with  the  finger  nail.  The  ever- 
green corn  is  the  best. 

Sweet  Potatoes. — In  buying  sweet  potatoes,  notice  if 
there  are  any  little  sprouts  beginning  to  start  from  their 
surfaces.  If  so,  you  may  know  that  the  potatoes  were  ex- 
posed to  rains  before  digging,  and  that  they  have  com- 
menced to  "grow,"  which  always  makes  them  sticky,  or 
watery.  The  red  (and  white)  Nancemond,  and  the  Spanish 
Reds,  are  fine  varieties. 

Watermelons. — It  is  rather  difficult  to  tell  whether  a 
watermelon  is  ripe,  except  by  cutting  or  "  plugging "  it ; 
if  plugged,  it  must  be  eaten  the  same  day.  A  good  test  (as 
it  does  not  injure  the  melon)  is  to  thump  with  the  finger, 
and  note  the  sound  ;  the  higher  the  "pitch,"  the  riper  the 
melon.  If  recently  pulled,  the  stems  will  not  be  black  and 
shriveled.  Melons  that  are  ripe  and  fresh,  are  perfectly 
wholesome;  the  stale  ones  produce  cholera  morbus. 

Cantaloupes. — Ripe  muskmelons  and  cantaloupes,  are  if 
fresh,  firm  to  the  touch,  rather  than  hard  ;  the  stem  if  on, 
is  easily  removed;  if  off,  the  surface  beneath  should  look 


PART  III.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  563 

green  and  fresh.  If  the  melon  yields  readily  to  pressure,  as 
if  half  shriveled,  it  is  stale ;  beware  of  it ! 

Fruits. — It  is  generally  an  easy  matter  to  decide  whether 
fruits  are  fresh  or  stale;  if  stale,  they  either  look  withered, 
or  show  signs  of  decay;  and  usually  they  are  more  or  less 
discolored.  Stale  blackberries  have  a  dull  red  color,  which 
some  persons  mistake  at  first  sight  for  unripe  fruit;  if  eaten 
in  this  condition,  they  often  cause  cholera  morbus. 

The  following  hints  on  the  selection  of  meats,  poultry, 
fish,  etc.,  are  taken  from  the  Buckeye  Cookery,  which  is  ex- 
cellent authority: 

"  In  buying  beef,  select  that  which  is  of  a  clear,  cherry- 
red  color,  after  a  fresh  cut  has  been  for  a  few  moments  ex- 
posed to  the  air.  The  fat  should  be  a  light  straw  color,  and 
the  meat  marbled  throughout  with  it.  If  the  beef  is  imma- 
ture, the  color  of  the  lean  part  will  be  pale  and  dull,  the 
bones  small,  and  the  fat  very  white.  High-colored,  coarse- 
grained beef,  with  the  fat  a  deep  yellow,  should  be  rejected. 
In  corn-fed  beef  the  fat  is  yellowish,  while  that  fattened  on 
grasses  is  whiter.  In  cow-beef,  the  fat  is  also  whiter  than 
in  ox-beef.  Inferior  meat  from  old  or  ill-fed  animals,  has  a 
coarse  skinny  fat,  and  a  dark  red  lean.  Ox-beef  is  the 
sweetest  and  most  juicy,  and  the  most  economical.  "When 
meat  pressed  by  the  finger  rises  up  quickly,  it  is  prime ;  but 
if  the  dent  disappears  slowly,  or  remains,  it  is  inferior  in 
quality.  Any  greenish  tints  about  either  fat  or  lean,  or 
slipperiness  of  surface,  indicates  that  the  meat  has  been 
kept  so  long  that  putrefaction  has  begun;  and  consequently, 
it  is  unfit  for  use,  except  by  those  persons  who  prefer  what 
is  known  as  a  '  high  flavor.'  Tastes  differ,  as  to  the  best 
cuts.  The  tenderloin,  which  is  the  choicest  piece,  and  is 
sometimes  removed  by  itself,  lies  under  the  short  ribs  and 
close  to  the  backbone,  and  is  usually  cut  through  with  the 
porterhouse  and  sirloin  steaks.  Of  these,  the  porterhouse 
is  generally  preferred,  the  part  nearest  the  thin  bone  being 
37 


564  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

the  sweetest.  If  the  tenderloin  is  wanted,  it  may  be  secured 
by  buying  an  edgebone  steak,  the  remainder  of  which,  after 
the  removal  of  the  tenderloin,  is  equal  to  the  sirloin.  The 
small  porterhouse  steaks  are  the  most  economical ;  but  in 
large  steaks,  the  coarse  and  tough  parts  may  be  used  for 
soup;  or,  after  boiling,  for  hash  ;  which  in  spite  of  its  bad 
repute,  is  really  a  very  nice  dish  when  well  made.  A  round 
steak,  when  the  leg  is  not  cut  down  too  far,  is  sweet  and 
juicy."  "  The  interior  portion  of  the  round,  is  the  tender- 
est  and  best.  The  roasting  pieces  are  the  sirloin,  and  the 
ribs,  the  latter  being  most  economical  at  the  family  table  ; 
the  bones  forming  an  excellent  basis  for  soup,  and  the  meat, 
when  boned  and  rolled  up  (which  should  be  done  by  the 
butcher),  and  roasted,  being  in  good  form  for  the  carver,  as 
it  enables  him  to  distribute  equally  the  upper  part  with  the 
fatter  and  more  skinny  portions." 

"  Mutton  should  be  fat,  and  the  fat  clear  and  white.  Be 
wary  of  buying  mutton  with  yellow  fat.  An  abundance  of 
fat  is  a  source  of  waste,  but  as  the  lean  part  of  fat  mutton 
is  much  more  juicy  and  tender  than  any  other,  it  should  be 
chosen.  After  the  butcher  has  cut  off  all  he  can  be  per- 
suaded to  remove,  you  will  still  have  to  trim  it  freely  before 
boiling.  The  lean  of  mutton  is  quite  different  from  that  of 
beef.  While  beef  is  a  bright  carnation,  mutton  is  a  deep 
dark  red.  The  hind  quarter  of  mutton  is  best  for  roasting. 
The  ribs  may  be  used  for  chops,  and  are  the  sweeter;  but 
the  leg  cutlets  are  the  most  economical,  as  there  is  much 
less  bone,  and  no  hard  meat,  as  on  the  ribs.  Almost  any 
part  will  do  for  broth.  As  much  of  the  fat  should  be  re- 
moved as  practicable,  then  cut  into  small  pieces  and  simmer 
slowly,  until  the  meat  falls  to  pieces." 

"  A  young  turkey  has  a  smooth  black  leg,  and  (if  male) 
a  short  spur.  The  eyes  are  bright  and  full,  and  the  feet 
supple,  when  fresh.  The  absence  of  these  signs  denotes 
&ge  and  staleness." 


PAET  III.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  565 

"Young  fowls  (chickens)  have  a  tender  skin,  smooth  legs 
and  comb,  and  the  best  have  yellow  legs.  In  old  fowls  the 
legs  are  rough  and  hard." 

"In  prairie  chickens,  when  fresh,  the  eyes  are  full  and 
round,  not  sunken;  and  if  young,  the  breast-bone  is  soft, 
.and  yields  to  pressure.  The  latter  test  also  applies  to  all 
fowls,  and  game  birds." 

"  AYhen  fresh,  the  eyes  of  fish  are  full  and  bright,  and 
the  gills  a  fine  clear  red;  the  body  stiff,  and  the  smell  not 
unpleasant.  Mackerel  must  be  lately  caught,  or  it  is  very 
indifferent  fish;  and  the  flavor  and  excellence  of  salmon, 
depend  entirely  on  its  freshness."  "All  fish  which  have 
been  packed  in  ice,  should  be  cooked  immediately  after  re- 
moval, as  they  soon  grow  soft,  and  lose  their  flavor."  "  If 
frozen  when  brought  from  the  market,  thaw  in  ice-cold 
water." 

The  Cellar. 

A  dwelling  house  should  never  be  without  a  cellar;  and 
the  latter  should  extend  under  every  foot  of  the  former.  A 
house  built  without  this  convenience  is  not  only  incomplete 
in  itself,  but  it  is  usually  damp  and  unhealthy;  with  it,  the 
dwelling  may  be  healthy  or  otherwise,  according  to  the  con- 
dition in  which  the  cellar  is  kept.  In  the  first  place,  every 
room  below  the  ground  floor,  should  be  thoroughly  dry; 
and  in  order  to  have  it  so,  the  house  itself  must  be  properly 
finished;  the  eaves  must  be  supplied  with  gutters  and  down 
pipes,  through  which  the  water  from  the  roof  can  either 
be  carried  into  a  cistern,  or  else  cond acted  away  from  the 
dwelling  by  means  of  sewer  pipes,  or  other  drainage. 

If  in  spite  of  these  precautionary  measures  water  finds 
access  to  the  cellar,  it  must  be  carefully  drained  away,  or 
(what  is  better)  kept  out.  Sometimes  a  beating  rain  forces 
itself  against  the  outer  wall  of  the  building,  and  the  water 
after  reaching  and  saturating  the  ground  trickles  through 
crevices  in  the  basement,  and  covers  the  cellar  floor.     To 


566  HEALTH   IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

prevent  the  possibility  of  an  accident  of  this  kind,  a  good 
plan  is  to  shovel  away  the  earth  that  lies  next  to  and  out- 
side the  cellar  wall,  forming  a  deep  trench;  then  fill  the 
latter  with  clay,  packing  or  stamping  it  in,  until  it  is  per- 
fectly solid.  Continue  this  embankment,  either  with  the 
clay  itself,  or  clay  and  other  earth  mixed,  till  there  is  suffi- 
cient slope  to  carry  the  water  some  distance  from  the  house; 
too  far  for  it  to  soak  into  the  ground  adjacent  to  the  wall 
below.  Should  a  subterranean  stream  of  water  find  access 
to  the  cellar,  either  by  forcing  its  way  through  the  walls, 
or  up  through  the  floor,  it  must  be  conducted  away  as  rap- 
idly as  it  flows  in,  by  means  of  thorough  drainage. 

In  making  a  cellar,  be  sure  you  have  the  walls  and  floor 
proof  against  rats;  the  walls  should  be  built  of  stone,  laid 
in  lime  or  cement;  and  in  very  cold  climates  an  inner  wall 
of  brick,  with  an  air  space  between  the  two,  is  sometimes 
made.  The  floor  should  consist  of  a  good  layer  of  small 
stones — usually  broken  limestone — over  which  is  poured  a 
hard  cement,  the  latter  finished  perfectly  smooth.  Let  the 
compartments  be  so  constructed  as  to  admit  of  thorough 
ventilation,  and  a  reasonable  amount  of  light;  the  number 
and  dimensions  of  these  will  of  course  depend  upon  the 
size  of  the  house.  A  dwelling  with  ten  rooms  may  have  in 
its  basement  a  laundry,  a  furnace  room,  a  cold  air  chamber 
(in  connection  with  the  furnace),  a  fruit  room  (for  canned 
goods),  a  cold  room  for  vegetables  and  raw  fruits,  a  dark 
apartment  for  potatoes,  and  a  main  thoroughfare;  the  dark 
room  may  be  at  the  far  end  of  the  latter.  In  the  fruit 
room  there  should  be  closets,  each  with  its  tier  of  shelves, 
and  a  lock  and  key  to  its  door;  these  closets  should  be  ac- 
cessible to  the  light  when  the  doors  are  open,  but  entirely 
dark  when  these  are  shut. 

The  cellar  like  the  living-rooms,  ought  if  possible  to  have 
a  good  supply  of  air,  light  and  sunshine,  the  morning  sun 
being  preferable;  and  all  its  compartments  should  be  easy 


PART  III.  J  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  567 

of  access,  both  from  the  outside,  and  from  the  kitchen 
st aii  way.  But  the  one  thing  to  be  remembered,  first,  last, 
and  all  the  time,  is  that  every  part  of  it  must  be  kept  clean; 
no  mould,  no  decaying  vegetables  or  leaves,  no  tainted 
meats,  no  soured  fruits  or  other  spoiled  victuals,  no  stag- 
nant water,  no  any  thing  that  can  possibly  create  a  bad 
odor,  or  in  any  way  contaminate  the  air.  Even  the  dust 
and  cobwebs  ought  to  be  pretty  carefully  looked  after.  Of 
course  there  must  be  no  roaches,  no  mice,  and  if  possible 
no  flies;  all  these  pests  give  least  trouble  when  there  is 
nothing  lying  around  to  feed  them;  but  if  they  do  put  in 
an  appearance,  the  best  way  is  to  exterminate  as  rapidly  as 
possible. 

Briefly,  then,  let  every  part  of  the  cellar  be  well  kept; 
throw  open  the  doors  and  windows  frequently,  and  let  the 
fresh  air  blow  through  the  whole  of  it.  And  in  the  cold 
room,  where  apples,  pumpkins,  squashes,  and  other  market 
products  are  stored,  let  the  windows  remain  open  whenever 
it  is  not  cold  enough  to  freeze. — One  other  very  important 
matter  must  not  be  overlooked;  see  that  the  plumbing  is  in 
perfect  order — no  leaky  or  obstructed  drain-pipes,  to  breed 
disease.  Spoiled  meats,  stale  milk,  rotten  apples,  old  cab- 
bage leaves,  etc.,  may  be  the  cause  of  malignant  fevers,  or 
chronic  ill  health.  But  worse  than  even  these,  is  an  accu- 
mulation of  animal  excretions  or  other  impurity,  resulting 
from  imperfect  sewerage  or  drainage.  Some  things  ought 
to  be  attended  to,  but  these  things  must  be  done. 

The  Ice-House. 

In  warm  climates  the  ice-house  is  not  only  a  great  con- 
venience, it  is  next  to  a  necessity,  particularly  in  the  sum- 
mer season;  and  in  large  establishments,  it  is  very  essential 
as  a  matter  of  economy,  as  well  as  comfort.  Fruits,  vege- 
tables, and  animal  products,  can  be  preserved  for  an  almost 
indefinite  length  of  time,  if  kept  in  a  good  ice-house  where 


568  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

the  temperature  is  only  a  little  above  the  freezing  point. 
For  the  benefit  of  our  "  country  cousins  "  who  can  not  hail 
the  ice-wagon  every  morning,  the  following  suggestions 
from  the  Buckeye  Cookery,  on  constructing  and  filling  an 
ice-house,  may  be  of  practical  value: 

"  A  cheap  ice-house  may  be  made  by  partitioning  off  a 
space  about  twelve  feet  square  in  the  wood-shed,  or  even  in 
the  barn.  The  roof  must  be  tight  over  it,  but  there  is  no 
necessity  for  matched  or  fine  lumber  for  the  walls.  They 
should  however  be  coated  with  coal-tar  inside,  as  the 
long-continued  moisture  puts  them  to  a  severe  test,  and 
brings  on  decay.  Ice  should  be  taken  from  still  places  in 
running  streams,  or  from  clear  ponds.  It  may  be  cut  with 
half  an  old  cross-cut  saw,  but  there  are  saws  and  ice-plows 
made  for  the  purpose,  to  be  had  in  almost  every  village. 
In  cutting  ice,  as  soon  as  it  is  of  sufficient  thickness,  and 
before  much  warm  weather,  select  a  still  day,  with  the  ther- 
mometer as  near  zero  as  may  be.  Ice  handles  much  more 
comfortably  and  easily  when  it  is  so  cold  that  it  immediate- 
ly freezes  dry,  thus  preventing  the  wet  clothes  and  mittens, 
which  are  the  sole  cause  of  any  suffering  in  handling  it ; 
and  ice  put  up  in  sharp,  cold  weather,  before  it  has  been 
subjected  to  any  thaw,  will  keep  much  better,  and  be  much 
more  useful  in  the  hot  days  of  summer,  than  if  its  packing 
had  been  delayed  until  late  winter  or  early  spring,  and  then 
the  ice  put  up  half  melted  and  wet.  The  best  simple  con- 
trivance for  removing  blocks  of  ice  from  the  water,  is  a 
plank  with  a  cleat  nailed  across  one  end,  to  be  slipped  un- 
der the  block,  which  slides  against  the  cleat  and  may  then 
be  easily  drawn  out  with  the  plank,  without  lifting.  Cut 
the  ice  in  large  blocks  of  equal  size,  pack  as  closely  as  pos- 
sible in  layers,  leaving  about  a  foot  of  space  between  the 
outside  and  the  wall,  and  filling  all  crevices  between  the 
blocks  with  pounded  ice  or  sawdust.  Under  the  first  layer 
there  should  be  placed  sawdust  a  foot  thick,  and  arrange* 


PART  III.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  569 

merits  should  be  made  for  thorough  drainage,  as  water  in 
contact  with  the  ice  will  melt  it  rapidly.  As  the  layers  are 
put  in  place,  pack  sawdust  closely  between  the  mass  of  ice 
and  the  wall;  and  when  all  is  stored,  cover  with  a  foot  at 
least,  of  sawdust.  In  using  ice,  be  careful  to  cover  all 
crevices  with  sawdust,  as  the  ice  will  melt  rapidly  if  exposed 
to  the  air. 

"  The  less  ventilation  and  the  more  completely  an  ice- 
house is  kept  closed,  the  better  the  ice  will  keep.  The  cold 
air  which  surrounds  the  ice,  if  undisturbed  by  currents,  has 
little  effect  on  it;  but  if  there  are  openings,  currents  are 
formed,  and  the  warm  air  is  brought  in  to  replace  the  cold. 
This  is  especially  the  case,  if  the  openings  are  low,  as  the 
cold  air  being  the  heavier,  passes  out  below  most  readily. 
For  this  reason,  great  care  must  be  taken  to  fill  in  fresh, 
sawdust  between  the  walls  and  the  mass  of  ice,  as  it  settles 
down  by  its  own  weight,  and  the  melting  of  the  ice.  There 
is  no  advantage  in  having  an  ice-house  wholly  or  partly 
underground,  if  it  is  constructed  as  directed  above.  Fine 
chaff,  or  straw  cut  fine,  may  be  substituted  for  sawdust 
when  the  latter  is  difficult  to  obtain.  Of  course,  the  build- 
ing may  be  constructed  separately,  in  which  case  the  cost 
need  not  be  more  than  twenty-five  to  fifty  dollars." 

Those  who  have  not  an  ice-house,  but  can  get  the  ice,  may 
easily  construct  an  ice-chest;  a  few  feet  of  inch  boards, 
these  of  hard  wood — never  use  pine,  as  the  odor  is  un- 
pleasant— with  zinc  for  lining,  a  little  sawdust  for  packing, 
a  handful  of  nails  and  four  hinges,  constitute  the  materials. 
The  chest  must  of  course  have  double  walls,  with  a  space  be- 
tween for  the  packing;  also  an  inner  and  outer  lid,  both  fitting 
closely,  to  exclude  the  air.  In  the  center  of  the  chest, 
stretching  from  side  to  side,  must  be  movable  slats  (strips 
of  wood  covered  with  zinc),  or  if  you  have  it,  a  wire  shelf, 
resting  on  a  fold  of  the  zinc  lining.  When  in  use,  lift  this 
shelf  or  partition,  lay  the  ice  in  the  bottom  of  the  chest,  re- 


570  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAET  III. 

place  the  shelf,  set  on  it  the  things  you  wish  to  keep  cold, 
and  then  shut  down  the  lids  securely.  In  the  bottom  of 
the  chest  there  must  be  a  hole  lined  with  zinc;  or  a  bit  of 
lead  pipe  may  be  inserted,  to  carry  off  the  water  as  the  ice 
melts. 

Bills  of  Fake. 

The  f oDowing  bills  of  fare  are  intended  merely  as  hints  to 
the  intelligent  housewife;  it  will  often  happen  that  one  or 
more  of  the  dishes  named,  can  not  be  secured;  and  that 
something  else  will  have  to  take  its  place.  Raw  fruits,  for 
example,  are  not  always  to  be  had;  and  stewed  fruits,  often- 
times, will  have  to  give  place  to  canned  ones;  or  the  canned, 
to  dried.  And  so  of  the  grains,  or  vegetables;  a  particular 
one  specified  in  the  bill  of  fare,  may  be  the  very  thing  you 
have  not  got  For  this  reason  it  has  seemed  necessary,  not 
only  to  make  the  list  of  vegetables  pretty  full,  but  in  some 
instances  to  give  an  alternative  article,  so  that  if  one  is  not 
at  hand,  the  cook  can  take  the  other.  The  dishes  selected 
from  the  Compromise  or  Part  III.,  may  or  may  not  consti- 
tute a  part  of  a  given  meal.  If  included  (at  dinner  at  least), 
they  must  to  a  certain  extent,  take  the  place  of  one  or  more 
of  the  dishes  in  the  regular  course;  for  example,  baked 
Indian  pudding  maybe  substituted  for  rice  or  hominy;  and 
baked  fish,  for  stewed  or  baked  beans. 

The  objection  will  no  doubt  be  raised  by  some,  that  too 
great  a  variety  of  food  has  been  introduced  at  a  single 
meal;  and  that  two  or  three  kinds  of  vegetables  at  dinner, 
ought  to  be  enough.  This  is  very  true;  it  must  be  borne 
in  mind,  however,  that  it  is  much  easier  for  the  cook  to  leave 
off  a  dish  or  two  from  the  bill  of  fare,  than  it  would  be  to 
improvise  new  ones,  to  take  the  place  of  those  that  can  not 
be  obtained  in  the  market.  In  other  words,  we  must  leave 
room  for  a  certain  amount  of  selection,  in  the  planning  of 
the  meal.  Let  it  be  remembered,  meanwhile,  that  cer- 
tain vegetables  seem  to  offset  each  other,  by  way  of  contrast; 


PAET  III.]  PRACTICAL   HINTS.  571 

thus,  sweet  potatoes  (because  of  their  sweetness)  go  well 
with  tomatoes,  their  natural  opposites;  while  roast  meat  or 
baked  beans,  call  for  sour  oranges,  or  spinach  with  lemon 
juice. — But  for  further  hints  on  this  subject,  the  reader  is 
referred  to  the  chapter  on  Food  Combinations. 

Among  the  various  articles  of  food  given,  it  will  be  seen 
that  there  is  at  least  one  that  is  expected  to  appear  regularly, 
at  both  breakfast  and  dinner:  viz.,  the  hard  Graham  roll. 
It  may  be  eaten  warm  for  breakfast,  and  cold  for  dinner; 
and  should  there  chance  to  be  a  few  rolls  left  over,  they 
will  not  come  amiss  at  supper. 

The  ripe  fruits  spoken  of  below,  may  be  apples,  peaches, 
pears,  plums,  grapes,  cherries,  currants  or  berries.  Apples 
are  best  eaten  at  breakfast,  and  at  the  beginning  of  the  meal; 
grapes  and  cherries  also  do  their  best  service  eaten  in  the 
same  way.  In  warm  weather,  the  acid  fruits  are  usually 
preferred;  but  when  the  weather  is  cool  or  cold,  and  the 
appetite  keen,  sweet  or  dried  fruits  are  in  some  respects 
more  satisfactory;  some  of  the  latter,  however  (as  peaches 
or  prunes),  are  too  hearty  for  supper. 

Potatoes  may  or  may  not  appear  at  the  breakfast  table ; 
some  persons  are  better  without  them  at  this  meal.  Mushes 
and  grains  are  as  a  rule  more  easily  digested  at  breakfast  or 
dinner,  than  at  supper;  they  may  be  served  with  or  without 
a  dressing  of  fruit. 


Breakfast. — (Spring  or  Summer.) 

Sunday. 

Bipe  fruits,  as  apples,  peaches  or  grapes.  Hard  Graham 
rolls;  Graham  loaf  bread,  or  dry  toast.  Corn  meal,  or 
farina  mush.  Baked  potatoes,  peeled  or  unpeeled.  Stewed 
sweet  currants,  or  canned  pears. 

Compromise. — Soft  boiled  eggs. 


572  HEALTH    IN    THE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  IIT. 

Monday. 
Bipe  fruit.     Hard  Graham   rolls;    cream   biscuits.     Oat 
meal  mush.     Boiled  or  mashed  potatoes.     Stewed  or  canned 
apples,  or  stewed  dried  apples. 

Tuesday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  mush  biscuits,  or  mush  rolls.  Gra- 
ham or  oat  meal  mush.  Browned  potatoes.  Strawberries 
or  raspberries;  these  ripe,  stewed  or  canned. 

Compromise. — Eggs  and  toast. 


Bipe  fruit.  Hard  Graham  rolls;  leavened  Graham  bread. 
Oat  meal  or  farina  mush.  Mashed  or  baked  potatoes. 
Stewed  dried  peaches  (peeled),  baked  apples,  or  canned 
plums. 

Thursday. 

Bipe  fruit.  Hard  Graham  rolls;  currant  gems,  or  dry 
toast.  Oat  meal  mush,  or  steamed  rice.  Boiled  or  baked 
potatoes.  Stewed  apples,  canned  peaches,  or  stewed  cher- 
ries. 

Compromise. — Corn  cake;  or  leavened  Graham  bread 
(half  white  flour)  with  fresh  butter. 

Friday. 
Bipe  fruit.     Hard  Graham  rolls ;  leavened  Graham  bread. 
Graham  or  oat  meal  mush.     Browned  or  mashed  potatoes. 
Baspberries  and  currants  (mixed);  these  stewed  or  canned 
— or  blackberries  or  cherries,  stewed  or  canned. 

Saturday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  corn  gems,  or  hot- water  rolls.  Oat 
meal  mush.  Boiled  or  baked  potatoes.  Stewed  or  canned 
plums,  strawberries,  or  baked  apples. 

Compromise. — Green  corn,  griddle-cakes,  or  milk  toast. 


PART  III.]  PRACTICAL    HINTS.  573 

Dinner. — (Spring  or  Summer.) 
Sunday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  corn  bread,  or  Graham  loaf  bread 
Pearl  wheat,  or  pearl  barley.  Mashed  or  baked  potatoes. 
Stewed  turnips;  or  string  beans,  stewed  or  canned.  Scram- 
bled or  baked  tomatoes.     Rhubarb  pie. 

Compromise. — Roast  lamb,  or  broiled  beef-steak.  Cauli- 
flower with  tomato  sauce — no  turnips,  or  beans. 

Monday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  Graham  crackers,  or  dry  toast. 
Stewed  Lima  beans  (dried  or  green),  or  sweet  potatoes. 
Canned  or  sliced  tomatoes.  Boiled  or  mashed  potatoes. 
Hominy,  or  rice. 

Compromise. — Vegetable  soup,  or  corn  and  tomato  soup. 
Baked  Indian  pudding — no  hominy,  or  rice. 

Tuesday. 

Apples,  peaches  or  pears.  Hard  Graham  rolls;  corn 
bread,  or  mush  rolls.  Canned  corn,  or  boiled  green  corn. 
Baked  potatoes.  Samp,  or  cracked  wheat.  Stewed  or  can- 
ned fruit.     Apple  dumplings,  or  berry  pie. 

Compromise. — Mutton  chops  (broiled  or  stewed),  or  Lan- 
cashire pie.  Bird's- nest  pudding — no  berry  pie,  or  dump- 
lings. 

Wednesday. 

Cantaloupes,  or  bananas.  Hard  Graham  rolls  ;  Graham 
loaf  bread.  Green  or  canned  peas.  Stewed  or  baked  to- 
matoes. Boiled  or  mashed  potatoes.  Stewed  green  corn, 
succotash,  or  asparagus  on  toast. 

Compromise. — Rice  pie,  or  Queen  of  puddings — no  can- 
taloupes, or  bananas. 


574  HEALTH  IN  THE  HOUSEHOLD.  [PABT  III. 

Thursday. 

Watermelons.  Hard  Graham  rolls ;  corn  bread,  or  dry 
toast.  Sweet  potatoes,  or  stewed  Lima  beans.  Cauliflower, 
or  cabbage.  Sliced  or  canned  tomatoes.  Mashed  potatoes, 
or  new  potatoes. 

Compromise. — Green  corn  pudding,  or  rhubarb  Charlotte 
— no  watermelons. 

Friday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls  ;  leavened  Graham  bread.  Stewed  or 
baked  beans.  Summer  squashes.  Stewed  rhubarb — or 
beets  (or  spinach)  with  lemon  juice.  Boiled  or  baked  pota- 
toes.    Barley,  or  green  corn.     Baked  tomatoes. 

Compromise. — Lemon  tapioca  pudding.  Baked  fish — no 
beans. 

Saturday. 

Apples,  peaches  or  grapes.  Hard  Graham  rolls  ;  corn 
bread,  or  dry  toast.  Stewed  green  corn,  or  baked  toma- 
toes. Rice  and  raisins.  Mashed  or  baked  potatoes.  Stewed 
or  canned  fruit.  Apple  or  berry  pie  (or  cobbler),  or  straw- 
berry shortcake. 

Compromise. — Beef  or  mutton  pie,  with  light  cream  paste. 
Fruit  pudding — no  fruit  pie,  or  shortcake. 

Suppers. — (All  the  year.) 

The  suppers  should  consist  mainly  of  bread  and  fruit. 
Let  the  bread  be  good  ^home-made  Graham  loaf,  leavened 
or  unleavened,  with  perhaps  a  plate  of  dry  toast,  or  hard 
Graham  rolls  ;  the  loaf  should  be  at  least  one  day  old;  the 
rolls  are  best  baked  the  same  day.  Wheaten  or  oat  meal 
crisps  are  well  liked,  either  at  breakfast  or  supper,  particu- 
larly in  cold  weather. 

The  raw  fruits  served  at  supper,  should  be  berries, 
grapes,  pears,  peaches,  or  plums — not  apples;  and  as  a  rule, 
only  one  variety  at  a  time.     To  these  may  be  added,  a  dish 


PART  III.]  PRACTICAL   HINTS.  575 

of  baked  or  stewed  apples,  or  any  other  fruit,  stewed  or 
canned;  most  dried  fruits  are  rather  too  hearty  to  be  eaten 
at  this  meal.  One  kind  of  cooked  fruit  is  usually  enough  ; 
especially  if  there  is  a  dish  of  raw  fruit  on  the  table.  In 
selecting  for  supper,  avoid,  as  a  general  thing,  taking  the 
same  kind  of  fruit  that  you  had  for  breakfast — or  the  sup- 
per previous;  the  palate  is  apt  to  tire  of  too  much  sameness 
or  repetition.  In  this  latitude  there  is  a  very  fine  variety 
of  fruits,  if  we  only  take  the  pains  to  secure  them;  in  the 
raw,  stewed  and  canned  fruits,  we  have  the  berries  and 
their  juices,  choice  grapes,  apples,  peaches,  pears,  plums, 
cherries,  oranges,  etc.;  then,  there  are  the  sweet  and  other 
dried  fruits,  which  are  particularly  acceptable  in  winter. 

If  mushes  (fresh-made,  cold  or  warmed  over)  are  eaten  at 
supper,  they  may  be  served  with  some  kind  of  juicy  fruit, 
stewed  or  canned;  or  with  any  of  the  fruit  juices,  as  grape, 
strawberry,  or  gooseberry.  Currant  scone,  served  with 
grape  or  other  fruit  juice,  or  with 'fresh  cranberry  sauce,  is 
excellent  as  an  occasional  dish  at  supper. 

For  company,  add  to  the  above  simple  repast  a  plain 
cake,  a  handsome  basket  of  fruit,  and  one  of  the  numerous 
dishes  named  under  the  head  of  Moulded  Farinacea. 

Breakfast. — (Autumn  and  Winter.) 

The  breakfasts  during  this  half  of  the  year,  do  not  differ 
materially  from  those  in  spring  and  summer,  except  that 
corn  bread  and  baked  potatoes  come  more  frequently  to 
the  table,  and  there  is  a  larger  per  cent,  of  dried  fruits, 
with  fewer  green  ones.  Good  dried  apples,  peaches,  pears, 
plums,  prunelles,  apricots,  cherries,  prunes,  or  plums  and 
prunes  mixed,  may  in  cold  weather  be  served  for  breakfast 
two  or  three  mornings  in  the  week,  provided  they  do  not 
persistently  follow  each  other,  in  close,  consecutive  order. 
They  are  welcomed  most  on  a  cold  crisp  morning;  and  all 
the  more,  if  there  is  a  dish  of  ripe  bellflowers,  pippins,  or 


576  HEALTH    IN    THE   HOUSEHOLD.  [PAKT  III. 

greenings  in  the  center  of  the  table.  Good  fall  and  winter 
apples  should  be  served  every  morning  on  sitting  down  at 
table,  from  the  time  they  first  begin  to  ripen,  till  late  in  the 
spring,  when  there  are  no  longer  any  to  be  had.  Indeed, 
there  is  not  a  fruit  that  can  fully  take  their  place;  though 
good  grapes  or  peaches  serve  finely  for  a  time. 

Let  the  breakfast,  then,  be  a  dish  of  raw  apples  or  other 
ripe  fruit;  hard  Graham  rolls,  to  which  may  be  added,  loaf, 
corn,  or  other  bread;  oat  meal  or  other  mush;  baked  or 
boiled  potatoes,  if  they  are  liked;  and  any  one  of  the  fol- 
lowing fruits  :  baked  apples,  cranberry  sauce,  apples  and 
quince,  or  other  stewed  fruit,  dried  or  green;  or  you  may 
substitute  some  kind  of  canned  fruit ;  one  variety-  is 
enough,  particularly  if  there  is  raw  fruit  on  the  table,  in 
addition.  Occasionally,  on  cold  mornings,  you  may  if  liked, 
stir  a  pound  of  fresh  dates  into  the  Graham  or  oat  meal 
mush,  five  minutes  before  taking  it  from  the  fire. 

If  compromise  dishes  are  indulged  in  occasionally,  select 
from  the  following  :  buckwheat  cakes — these  are  good  and 
wholesome,  served  with  stewed  or  canned  fruit — rice  or 
corn  griddle-cakes,  cream  fruit  gems,  corn  cakes,  bachelor's 
Johnny  cake,  Graham  and  corn  muffins,  milk  toast,  soft 
boiled  eggs,  eggs  and  toast,  hash  toast,  stewed  potatoes, 
corn  mush  and  milk,  oat  meal  mush  and  milk,  luaf.  bread 
(part  Graham)  and  fresh  butter.  For  good  health,  however, 
these  should  not  appear  too  often. 

Dinnee. — (Autumn  and  Winter.) 

Sunday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  leavened  Graham  bread,  or  (in  cold 

weather)  steamed  corn  bread.     Sweet  potatoes,   or  baked 

squash.       String  beans.       Mashed   potatoes.       Stewed    or 

baked  tomatoes.     Cranberry  pie. 

Compromise. — Lamb  chops,  or  pot  roast;  celery  or  spinach, 
the  latter  with  lemons. 


PAET  III.]  PRACTICAL   HINTS.  577 

Monday. 

Oranges.  Hard  Graham  rolls;  corn  bread,  or  Graham 
loaf  bread.  Pearl  or  cracked  wheat.  Stewed  or  baked 
beans.     Boiled  or  mashed  potatoes.     Stewed  turnips. 

Compromise. — Barley  and  tomato  soup,  or  "  All  the  gar- 
den "  soup — no  oranges.  Rice  pudding,  or  beef  or  mutton 
hash. 

Tuesday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  corn  bread,  or  rye,  wheat  and  Indian 
bread.  Stewed  squash,  or  ruta-baga  turnips.  Canned 
peas,  canned  corn,  or  succotash.  Baked  potatoes.  Stewed 
or  canned  tomatoes. 

Compromise. — Farina  pudding,  or  lemon  custard  pudding. 

Wednesday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  mush  rolls,  or  steamed  corn  bread. 
Nuts.  Baked  or  mashed  potatoes.  Barley  or  rice.  Canned 
corn.  Baked  tomatoes.  Stewed  or  canned  fruit.  Apple  or 
peach  cobbler,  or  other  fruit  pie. 

Compromise. — Beef  or  mutton  pie,  or  broiled  beef-steak- 
Apple  batter  pudding,  or  sweet-apple  pudding — no  fruit 
pie,  or  cobbler. 

Thursday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  corn  bread,  or  leavened  Graham 
bread.  Sweet  potatoes.  Cabbage,  string  beans,  or  spinach. 
Boiled  or  mashed  potatoes.  Sliced  or  canned  tomatoes — or 
fresh  oranges. 

Compromise.— Manioca  pudding,  rice  pie,  or  steamed  In- 
dian pudding — no  oranges. 

Friday. 

Bananas.  Hard  Graham  rolls;  hot- water  rolls,  or  leavened 
Graham  bread.     Mashed  or  baked  potatoes.     Stewed  tur- 


578  HEALTH   IN    TEE    HOUSEHOLD.  [PART  III. 

nips  or  parsnips.     Stewed  or  baked   tomatoes.     Hominy, 
samp,  or  canned  corn. 

Compromise. — Baked  fish,  or  beef's  tongue  with  tomato 
sauce.     Oranges — no  bananas. 

Saturday. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  corn  bread,  or  rye,  wheat  and  Indian 
bread.  Boiled  or  mashed  potatoes.  Lima  beans,  or  succo- 
tash. Stewed  onions,  or  canned  peas.  Sliced  tomatoes,  or 
oranges. 

Compromise. — Tomato  (or  bean  and  tomato)  soup — no 
onions  or  peas.  Pumpkin,  squash  or  potato  pie — no  oranges. 

Lunch  for  Picnics. 

Hygienic. — Make  selections  from  the  following:  Ripe 
apples,  peaches,  pears,  grapes,  oranges,  bananas.  Ripe 
tomatoes,  round  and  smooth,  and  not  very  large.  Nuts. 
Hard  Graham  rolls;  wheat  meal  crisps;  Graham  crackers;* 
oat  meal  crisps,  or  Scotch  oat  cakes.  Graham  loaf  bread; 
cream  biscuits;  currant  scone;  Graham  fruit  roll.  Straw- 
berry (or  raspberry)  shortcake ;  strawberry  gem-cake; 
shortcake  or  gem-cake  made  with  stewed  cherries  or  stewed 
gooseberries,  the  latter  nearly  ripe.  Potatoes,  sweet  or 
Irish,  roasted  in  ashes.  Cracked  wheat,  rice  and  raisins,  oat 
meal  mush  with  dates;  these  dishes  moulded,  and  served 
with  fruit  juice.  Baked  apples;  canned  fruit;  grape  juice. 
Fruit  pies;  apple  or  peach  cobbler. 

Compromise. — Select  from  the  above,  and  add  two  or 
more  of  the  following  dishes:  Pressed  chicken  or  lamb; 
cold  tongue;  beef  or  tongue  sandwiches;  potted  beef;  cold 
sliced  beef  or  turkey;  hard  boiled  eggs.  Sweet-apple  pud- 
ding; cold  rice  pudding;  lemon  tapioca  pudding;  rice  and 
raisin  pudding;  rhubarb  Charlotte.  Graham  cream  cake* 
Graham  fruit  cake;  Sally  Lunn.  Rice  or  potato  pie.  Lemon- 
ade. 


part  iii.]  practical  hints.  579 

Traveling   Lunches. 

Hard  Graham  rolls;  Scotch  oat  cakes;  Graham  crackers, 
or  wheat  meal  crisps;  currant  scone,  or  Graham  fruit  roll; 
cream  biscuits.  Apples  and  oranges;  lemons;  grapes, 
peaches  or  pears;  bananas;  in  hot  weather,  good  ripe 
tomatoes;  (these  and  oranges  take  the  place  of  water,  when 
it  is  too  poor  in  quality  or  too  ice-cold  to  drink  with  safety.) 
Grape  juice;  gooseberry  or  other  fruit  juice;  these  in  glass 
cans  or  bottles.  Cherries  or  other  fruits,  also  in  cans. 
Baked  apples.  Fruit  pies;  these  made  in  turnovers,  from 
dried  fruits,  as  apples  or  peaches;  if  made  of  berries  or 
other  raw  fruit,  the  pie  must  not  be  too  juicy;  use  no  water, 
and  if  necessary  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  fruit  before 
baking. 

Compromise. — Select  from  the  preceding,  and  then  add 
what  is  wanted  from  the  following  dishes:  Cold  beef  or 
mutton;  roast  chicken  or  turkey;  pressed  chicken  or  lamb; 
cold  tongue;  beef  or  tongue  sandwiches. 


38 


ADDENDUM. 


After  having  written  the  foregoing  pages  for  the  express 
purpose  of  teaching  how  to  cook  in  the  proper  way,  the 
writer  is  cheeringly  consoled  by  being  asked  in  all  serious- 
ness, whether  it  would  not  be  better  to  do  without  cooking, 
altogether.  Some  late  writers — and  some  not  so  late — have 
given  it  as  their  opinion,  that  heat,  so  far  from  improving 
the  quality  of  the  various  food  products,  actually  destroys, 
to  a  certain  extent,  their  nutritive  properties  ;  that  it  so 
changes  the  organic  structure  of  the  grains,  fruits  and 
vegetables,  that  they  are  never  again  the  same  ;  that  these, 
if  submitted  to  a  certain  degree  of  heat — less,  even,  than  it 
takes  to  cook  them — are  so  impaired,  as  respects  their 
vitality,  that  they  lose  their  germinating  or  propagating 
power;  that  instead  of  being  more  palatable  and  more 
easily  digested,  the  very  reverse  is  true;  and  that  if  we 
would  get  all  the  good  there  is  in  them,  we  must  take  them 
fresh  from  the  hand  of  Nature. 

Now,  so  far  as  fruits  are  concerned,  most  persons — per- 
haps all  hygienists — will  admit  that  these,  properly  grown 
and  thoroughly  ripe,  are  all  or  nearly  all,  infinitely  better 
raw  than  cooked.  What  is  a  cooked  orange,  strawberry, 
peach,  pear,  pine-apple,  or  plum,  compared  to  one  in  the 
natural  state?  And  some  of  the  vegetables,  as  cabbage, 
lettuce,  celery,  etc.,  are  by  many  persons  relished  better  raw 
than  cooked.  The  grains,  too,  as  wheat,  or  corn,  eaten  in  the 
immature  state,  when  the  kernels  are  easily  masticated,  are 
(580) 


ADDENDUM.  581 

acknowledged  by  all  to  be  very  delicious;  and  it  is  argued 
by  some,  that  if  we  had  good  sound  teeth  with  which  to 
pulverize  the  ripe  grain,  we  should  find  that  that  too  was 
equally  sweet  and  good.  It  is  also  suggested  that  where 
the  teeth  are  imperfect,  the  grains  may  be  very  easily  mas- 
ticated by  first  crushing  or  cutting  them,  and  if  need  be, 
soaking  in  a  little  water;  and  that  if  eaten  in  this  way, 
either  by  themselves,  or  with  nuts  or  raisins,  they  are  ex- 
ceedingly palatable.  An  excellent  cake  is  said  to  be  made, 
by  mixing  together  nuts,  raisins,  and  wheat  or  oat  meal, 
coarsely  ground,  and  then  submitting  the  mass  to  pressure, 
until  the  flavors  are  well  blended  together. 

But  as  the  writer  of  this  work  has  had  little  experience 
in  the  matter  of  uncooked  food  (aside  from  fruits),  suppose 
we  let  those  who  are  better  acquainted  with  the  subject, 
speak  for  themselves.  Perhaps  the  first,  in  this  country,  to 
call  attention  to  the  superior  merit  of  uncooked  food,  was 
Sylvester  Graham,  M.D.  In  his  Science  of  Human  Life, 
speaking  of  the  "general  physiological  laws  in  regard  to 
preparing  food,"  he  says  :  "  All  artificial  means  to  effect 
that  which  the  living  body  has  natural  faculties  and  powers 
to  accomplish,  always  and  inevitably  impair  and  tend  to 
destroy  the  physiological  powers  designed  to  perform  the 
function  or  to  produce  the  effect."  He  gives  illustrations 
to  prove  the  correctness  of  this  statement,  and  then  adds: 
"  It  may  therefore  be  laid  down  as  a  general  law,  that  all 
processes  of  cooking,  or  artificial  preparation  of  foods  by 
fire,  are  in  themselves,  considered  with  reference  to  the 
very  highest  and  best  condition  of  human  nature,  in  some 
degree  detrimental  to  the  physiological  and  psychological 
interests  of  man."  He  sums  up  by  saying,  that  if  man 
lived  upon  uncooked  foods,  he  would  have  to  use  his  teeth, 
and  would  therefore  preserve  them ;  he  would  masticate  his 
food  better,  and  by  thorough  insalivation,  render  it  fit  for 
the  stomach;  he  would  swallow  it  slowly,  instead  of  bolting 


582  ADDENDUM. 

it  down  in  a  crude  condition;  he  would  take  it  at  a  proper 
temperature,  and  not  weaken  the  stomach  with  hot  foods; 
he  would  eat  the  food  as  Nature  prepares  it,  not  served  in 
the  form  of  a  highly  concentrated  aliment;  he  would  par- 
take of  the  simple,  individual  food  substances,  and  would 
not  suffer  from  all  manner  of  injurious  combinations;  and 
finally,  he  would  be  less  likely  to  suffer  from  over-eating, 
than  he  would  if  he  lived  upon  soft,  cooked  foods. 

Some  more  recent  writers  have  taken  up  this  subject,  and 
are  giving  it  very  special  attention.  Gustav  Schlickeysen, 
who  is  a  most  charming  writer,  has  written  a  work  on  Fruit 
and  Bread,  in  which  he  expresses  himself  very  decidedly,  in 
regard  to  the  cooking  of  foods;  and  whether  or  not  we  are 
prepared  to  receive  all  that  he  has  to  say  on  the  subject,  it 
can  do  us  no  harm  to  follow  his  argument.     He  remarks: 

"  Of  all  the  artificial  forms  of  treatment  to  which  foods 
are  subjected,  that  of  cooking  is  the  most  universal,  and 
therefore  demands  here  our  especial  attention.  If  we 
rightly  consider  the  influence  of  this  process  upon  all  the 
natural  properties  of  a  plant,  we  must  concede  that  it  is  in 
almost  every  case  injurious,  and  that  it  should  be  dispensed 
with,  so  far  as  our  present  habits  of  life  will  admit  of,  and 
with  a  view  to  its  final  and  complete  disuse.  The  natural 
fluids  of  the  plant  are,  in  great  part,  lost  in  cooking,  and 
with  them  the  natural  aroma  so  agreeable  to  the  senses  and 
so  stimulating  to  the  appetite.  The  water  supplied  arti- 
ficially, does  not  possess  the  same  properties  as  that  which 
has  been  lost,  and  all  the  less  so,  since  it  has  been  boiled. 
The  cellular  tissue  of  the  plant  loses  also  its  vitality,  and 
ripe  uncooked  fruits  and  grains,  with  their  unbroken  cellu- 
lar tissue,  their  stimulating  properties;  their  great  content 
of  water,  sugar  and  acids,  and  their  electrical  vitality,  are 
calculated  to  impart  to  the  human  body  a  rosy  freshness,  to 
the  skin  a  beautiful  transparency,  and  to  the  whole  muscu- 
lar  system  the   highest  vigor   and   elasticity.     Uncooked 


ADDENDUM.  583 

fruits,  especially,  excite  the  mind  to  its  highest  activity. 
After  eating  them  we  experience  an  inclination  to  vigorous 
exercise,  and  also  an  increased  capacity  for  study  and  all 
mental  work;  while  cooked  food  causes  a  feeling  of  satiety 
and  sluggishness.  Not  only  do  plants  lose  their  vital,  but  to 
some  extent  also  their  nutritive  properties,  when  cooked. 
The  vegetable  acids  and  oils,  the  latter  being  of  especial 
value  in  the  development  of- the  bony  structure  of  the  body, 
are,  by  cooking,  dissipated;  while  the  albuminoids  are  co- 
agulated, and  thereby  less  easily  digested,  so  that  the  nu- 
tritive value  of  the  food  is  reduced  to  a  minimum.  Another 
injury  that  results  from  cooked  food,  is  that  caused  by  the 
artificial  heat.  All  neat  excites  through  expansion  an  in- 
creased activity,  but  this  activity  is  not  normal  in  the  case 
of  food  eaten  hot. 

"  Again,  the  sensory  nerves  of  the  lips  and  the  nerves  of 
taste,  are  weakened  by  hot  food  to  such  an  extent  that  they 
no  longer  serve  as  an  infallible  test  of  its  quality  ;  and 
hence  articles  that  seem  in  the  mouth  to  be  palatable  and 
good  may  be  very  injurious  to  the  system,  both  on  account 
of  their  natural  properties  and  their  artificial  heat.  In  a 
similar  manner  the  sense  of  smell  is  blunted;  and  not  less 
injuriously  does  hot  food  act  upon  the  teeth,  the  enamel  of 
which  is  destroyed,  rendering  them  unfit  for  their  work  of 
mastication,  in  consequence  of  which  the  food  passes  un- 
prepared into  the  stomach.  The  eyes  are  also  injured  by 
the  action  of  hot  food  upon  the  nerves  connected  with 
them.  That  condition  of  weak  and  watery  eyes  so  appar- 
ent in  the  habitual  drunkard,  exists  in  a  certain  degree 
with  all  whose  systems  are  enervated  by  hot  and  stimulat- 
ing foods.  But  the  greatest  harm  from  hot  food  is  caused 
in  the  stomach  itself,  the  coats  of  which  are  irritated,  red- 
dened, and  unnaturally  contracted  by  the  heat,  so  that  they 
lose  their  vigorous  activity  and  capacity  for  the  complete 
performance  of  their  natural  functions.     The  blood  excited 


584  ADDENDUM. 

by  the  heat  flows  in  excess  to  the  stomach,  and  thence 
feverishly  through  the  body.  One  result  of  this  is  the 
flushed  condition  of  the  head  after  eating.  Hot  food  also 
causes  excess  in  eating,  so  that  it  is  rather  by  a  sense  of 
fullness  and  oppression  than  by  a  natural  satisfaction  of  the 
appetite,  that  one  is  prompted  to  cease  eating.  An  evidence 
of  the  weakening  of  the  stomach  by  hot  food,  is  seen  when 
one  eats  an  apple  immediately  after  the  usual  hot  meal. 
Fruit  thus  taken  lies  like  a  stone  upon  the  stomach,  the  en- 
feebled nerves  being  injuriously  affected  by  its  presence  ; 
whereas,  in  their  normal  condition,  they  are  stimulated  to  a 
most  agreeable  activity  by  it. 

"From  the  abuse  of  the  organs  of  digestion,  result  a 
host  of  diseases.  A  life-long  weakness  of  the  gastric  nerves, 
with  cramps  and  inflammation  of  the  stomach,  are  its  com- 
mon fruits.  To  this  cause  also  is  attributable  the  almost 
universal  prevalence  of  colds,  which  are  the  direct  result  of 
unnatural  temperature  conditions  of  the  body.  The  blood 
artificially  heated  causes  an  excessive  perspiration,  since  it 
produces  an  increased,  but  injurious  activity  of  the  skin ; 
and  upon  the  least  change  of  temperature,  the  perspiration 
is  condensed  upon  the  body,  and  causes  colds  and  stiffness, 
and  this  all  the  more  certainly  when  the  blood  is  impure, 
and  the  tissues  overloaded.  From  the  same  prolific  cause, 
result  also  the  uneasiness  and  languor  experienced  after 
eating  hot  food.  But  the  evil  effect  can  not  be  overcome  by 
the  usual  after-dinner  nap.  This  can  not  replace  the  ele- 
ments lost  from  our  food,  nor  give  the  enlivening  impulse 
experienced  after  partaking  of  ripe  fruits  in  their  natural 
state. 

"  It  is  indeed  argued,  that  our  northern  climate  requires 
that  food  should  be  eaten  hot,  as  one  means  of  maintaining 
the  bodily  temperature;  but  if  this  be  true  of  man,  it  must 
apply  with  equal  force  to  all  animals;  and  since  man  alone 
seems  to  require  hot  food,  the  argument  loses  its  force.    In 


ADDENDUM.  585 

the  polar  regions,  the  conditions  of  animal  life  show  plainly 
that  the  natural  process  of  generating  heat  is  not  by  put- 
ting heated  substances  into  the  stomach,  but  by  the  normal 
action  of  the  vital  forces  upon  food  taken  in  its  natural 
state.  Greater  thirst  is  experienced  after  eating  cooked 
than  uncooked  food,  and  this  results  both  from  the  change 
which  the  food  has  undergone,  and  from  the  perspiration 
caused  by  the  increased  heat  of  the  body.  The  artificial 
solution  of  the  food  impairs  its  nutritive  properties,  and 
weakens  the  natural  functions  of  the  body,  by  depriving 
them  of  their  natural  employment;  and  this  has  been  so 
long  continued,  that  we  are  now  almost  incapable  of  digest- 
ing uncooked  grains,  so  that  their  enlivening  and  invigorat- 
ing action  is  almost  unknown." 

This  writer  lays  a  great  deal  of  stress  upon  what  he  terms 
the  "  electrical  vitality "  of  foods;  on  this  subject,  he  says: 

"Finally — and  this  is  the  point  that  physiologists  have 
hitherto  quite  overlooked — the  food  must  contain  a  certain 
electrical  vitality.  Although  the  real  origin  and  nature  of  the 
vital  force  is  not  yet  known,  we  believe  that  it  is  closely 
related  to  electricity;  not  less  so,  indeed,  than  to  light  and 
heat.  Electricity  is  abundant  in  all  purely  natural  products, 
and  indeed  everywhere,  where  a  free  and  uninterrupted  ex- 
change of  the  influences  of  light,  heat  and  air  exist.  It  is 
less  abundant  in  closed  dwellings  and  sleeping-rooms  than 
in  the  open  air.  An  outdoor  walk  refreshes  us,  not  only 
by  the  increased  consumption  of  oxygen,  but  by  the  in- 
creased action  of  the  electrical  forces.  The  same  vitality 
is  stored  up  in  uncooked  plants  and  fruits,  but  is  greatly 
impaired  by  all  our  culinary  processes.  Fruits  act  also 
through  their  natural  acids,  their  refreshing  coolness,  and 
the  easy  assimilation  of  their  albuminous  products,  and 
other  nourishing  materials. 

"  By  the  electrical  vitality  of  a  food,  we  do  not  mean  its 
nutritive  worth,  nor  indeed  any  material  element  of  it,  but 


586  ADDENDUM. 

rather  an  imponderable  fluid,  which  is  related  to  the  vital 
and  electrical  forces  of  the  human  system.  The  organic 
vital  force  has  not  incorrectly  been  called,  the  interrogation 
point  of  physiology;  and  the  physiologists  and  chemists  of 
the  old  school,  thought  to  maintain  this  force  by  supplying 
albuminoids  to  the  system.  The  fact,  however,  is  the 
reverse.  The  albuminoids  demand  rather  a  great  expense 
of  vitality  for  their  solution  and  digestion.  We  know  now, 
with  great  certainty,  and  by  practical  experience,  that  the 
human  system  is  maintained  and  strengthened  by  the  con- 
sumption of  fresh  air,  fresh  water,  and  ripe  fruits  and 
grains;  but  these  essential  means  of  sustenance  are  reduced 
from  the  rank  of  vital  to  merely  nutritive  substances,  by 
any  treatment  that  through  heat  or  otherwise,  destroys  their 
natural  vitality.  Our  physiologists  have  not  hitherto  under- 
stood this  difference  between  the  vital  and  the  merely  nu- 
tritive properties  of  food,  and  hence,  as  we  have  already 
pointed  out,  have  regarded  foods  merely  as  chemical  sub- 
stances. They  have  discovered  and  laid  down,  with  wonder- 
ful exactness,  the  chemical  elements  of  the  living  body,  and 
hence  of  the  food  requisite,  according  to  their  views,  to  its 
maintenance;  but  we  hope  to  show  in  the  following  pages 
that  their  methods,  and  consequently  their  dietetic  conclu- 
sions, have  been  one-sided,  and  essentially  erroneous.  So 
long  as  the  electrical  vitality  of  food  is  overlooked,  and  the 
bearings  of  anthropology  upon  the  question  ignored,  a  scien- 
tific system  of  diet  must  remain  impossible. 

"  The  value  of  foods  consists  not  in  their  nutritive  prop- 
erties alone,  but  in  their  proper  proportion  of  fluids ;  in 
the  necessary  bulk,  by  which  digestion  is  rendered  possible; 
in  the  natural  stimulation  of  their  juices  and  acids;  in  the 
aroma  by  which  the  appetite  is  aroused  and  its  regular 
recurrence  promoted;  in  their  chemically  neutral  character, 
which  prevents  their  generating  acids  or  forming  injurious 
compounds  in  the  stomach;  in  their  freedom  from  those 


ADDENDUM.  '  587 

unnatural  stimulants  by  which  a  vicious  appetite  is  created; 
in  the  purity  which  guards  the  system  against  corrupt  hu- 
mors and  diseased  conditions ;  in  the  refreshing  coolness 
which  maintains  the  digestive  organs  at  a  proper  tempera- 
ture, and  in  a  vigorous  condition ;  in  their  perfect  adapta- 
tion to  the  nature  of  the  digestive  organs,  so  that  they  may 
be  transformed  into  blood  without  doing  violence  to  any 
part  of  the  system;  and  finally,  in  that  electrical  vitality 
which  renders  them  analogous  to  living  beings,  and  the 
absence  of  which  reduces  them  to  a  condition  of  physical 
death.  These  properties  are  united  in  their  highest  perfec- 
tion, only  in  uncooked  fruits  and  grains,  as  they  come  from 
the  hand  of  Nature;  and  the  unperverted  appetite  demands 
nothing  else." 

An  excellent  little  work  called  the  Natural  Cure,  has  just 
been  written  by  Dr.  C.  E.  Page,  in  which  he  has  a  chapter 
on  the  "  Natural  Diet."  In  this  chapter  the  doctor  advo- 
cates the  use  of  uncooked  grains,  fruits,  and  even  vege- 
tables (provided  they  are  eaten),  and  gives  his  reasons 
therefor.  He  also  relates  the  experience  of  a  number  of 
individuals  who  have  lived  for  a  considerable  time  on  un- 
cooked foods,  and  who  have,  as  they  believe,  been  greatly 
improved  in  their  general  health.  Felix  L.  Oswald,  M.D., 
a  writer  well  known  in  recent  publications,  has  also  put 
himself  on  record,  in  the  following  words :  "  We  can  not  doubt 
that  the  highest  degree  of  health  could  only  be  attained 
by  stiict  conformity  to  Haller's  rule,  i.  e.,  by  subsisting  ex- 
clusively on  the  pure  and  unchanged  products  of  Nature." 

Quotations  from  other  authorities  might  be  given,  show- 
ing,  if  not  a  decided  preference  for  uncooked  foods,  at 
least  a  disposition  to  look  into  their  merits;  and  as  no  harm, 
but  always  good,  comes  from  thorough  investigation,  the  au- 
thor of  Health  in  the  Household  is  not  only  willing  to  hear, 
but  anxious  to  learn,  all  that  there  is  to  be  known  on  the 
subject.     If  "  better  things  "  are  yet  in  store,  by  all  means 


588  ADDENDUM. 

let  us  have  them  ;  and  the  way  to  find  them,  is  to  look  for 
them. 

A  young  medical  student  with  whom  the  writer  is  ac- 
quainted, found  himself  in  dyspeptic  conditions,  and  in 
rather  poor  health  generally.  He  tried  the  raw  grains  and 
fruits,  together  with  nuts,  and  immediately  began  to  im- 
prove; at  the  end  of  a  few  months  the  dyspepsia  was  all 
gone,  and  his  general  health  much  better;  and  at  the  end 
of  two  years,  he  considered  himself  as  "  made  over."  How 
much  of  this  improvement  was  due  to  the  new  diet  (he 
gave  it  credit  for  a  good  deal),  and  how  much  to  the  hints 
he  got  out  of  Dr.  Oswald's  Physical  Education,  which 
he  was  then  reading,  it  might  be  difficult  to  determine;  but 
it  is  probable  that  he  obtained  good  from  both. 

Judging  from  the  history  of  nearly  all  reforms,  whether 
real,  or  so  called,  it  may  be  reasonable  to  suppose  that  in 
this,  as  in  the  others,  its  advocates  will,  in  the  heat  of  en- 
thusiasm, make  some  mistakes ;  though  perhaps  this  is 
unavoidable.  In  the  absence  of  a  knowledge  of  the  right 
way,  one  has  to  experiment,  and  then  profit  afterward  by 
the  mistakes  committed.  Already,  questions,  such  as  the 
following,  are  asked: 

1.  Suppose  we  eat  uncooked  grains  ;  can  we  manage 
them  whole,  even  if  our  teeth  are  sound  ?  And  if  so,  would 
it  not  consume  a  great  deal  of  time  ? 

2.  If  the  teeth  are  imperfect,  must  we  not  cut  or  crush 
the  grains  ;  and  if  very  imperfect  or  wanting  altogether, 
would  it  not  be  better  to  soak  the  kernels,  whole  or  divided, 
until  they  are  partially  softened  ? 

3.  If  one  makes  a  meal  of  grains  and  fruits,  what  per 
cent,  of  it  should  be  fruits  ? 

4.  Should  the  two  be  eaten  together  (in  alternate  mouth- 
f uls),  or  should  the  one  be  eaten,  and  then  the  other  ? 

5.  Is  it  better  to  employ  a  great  variety  of   either  the 


ADDENDUM.  589 

fruits  or  the  grains;  and  if  so,  how  large  a  variety  is  it  best 
to  have  at  a  given  meal? 

6.  If  nuts  form  part  of  the  repast,  does  it  make  any  dif- 
ference at  what  meal  they  are  eaten;  whether  at  breakfast, 
dinner,  or  supper  ? 

7.  Is  there  danger  of  eating  too  many  nuts,  or  of  having 
them  too  often? 

8.  Should  the  quality  of  the  food  differ,  in  hot  and  cold 
climates — or  hot  and  cold  weather  ? 

9.  If  vegetables  are  eaten,  how  often  should  they  appear 
on  the  table  ;  and  should  they  be  eaten  at  the  same  meal 
with  fruits  ? 

10.  Would  children,  just  beginning  the  use  of  grains, 
require  to  have  them  soaked  or  softened  ? 

11.  Would  the  grains,  as  wheat,  be  the  better  of  being 
partially  cleaned  or  dressed,  before  being  eaten  ? 

12.  Should  the  character  of  the  food  be  modified,  to  suit 
the  habits  of  individuals;  and  if  so,  in  what  particulars? 

13.  In  living  upon  uncooked  foods,  how  many  meals 
would  be  necessary,  in  the  day;  and  about  how  much  time 
would  be  required  at  each,  provided  the  individual  had 
good  sound  teeth  ? 

14.  In  changing  from  the  cooked  to  the  uncooked  food, 
would  it  be  best  to  make  the  change  gradually,  or  at  once  ? 

The  above  are  examples  of  questions  that  would  require 
an  intelligent  answer  ;  though  some  of  them  apply  to  the 
cooked  foods,  as  well  as  to  the  uncooked.  Would  it  not  be 
a  good  plan  for  the  advocates  of  the  Natural  Diet  to  organ- 
ize into  a  society,  and  give  themselves  and  others  the  benefit 
of  their  experience  ?  No  doubt  very  much  valuable  infor- 
mation might  be  obtained  in  this  way;  and  if  the  experi- 
menters did  no  more  than  to  disprove  certain  popular 
fallacies,  at  present  almost  universally  accepted,  they  would, 
to  say  the  least,  help  to  prepare  the  way  for  a  more  rational 


590 


ADDENDUM. 


system  of  diet — if,  indeed,  that  can  be  called  a  system, 
which  (as  it  now  stands)  contains  so  much  that  is  not  only 
fragmentary  and  worthless,  but  positively  pernicious  in  its 
effects  upon  the  human  system,  and  utterly  at  variance  with 
all  the  known  laws  of  physiology  and  hygiene. 

In  discussing  the  food  question,  we  must  take  into  ac- 
count the  fact  that  the  force  of  habit  has  very  much  to  do 
with  what  the  stomach  is  able  to  accomplish.  For  hundreds 
and  even  thousands  of  years,  in  all  civilized  countries  at 
least,  it  has  been  the  custom  to  cook  the  grains  and  other 
starchy  foods  before  eating  them.  The  modern  stomach 
does  not  seem  to  be  able  to  digest  these  articles  perfectly 
in  the  raw  state.  But  after  the  starch  elements  have  been 
converted  into  glucose  by  cooking,  this  difficulty  is  removed, 
and  the  stomach  does  its  work  satisfactorily ;  then  the 
nutrient  material  is  absorbed  into  the  blood,  and  the  tissues 
appropriate  it. 

Nearly  all  of  the  grain  preparations  that  are  sold  in  our 
markets,  require  a  great  deal  longer  cooking  than  is  gener- 
ally supposed  ;  not  a  few  minutes,  but  hours  are  needed  to 
make  them  thoroughly  digestible,  and  also  to  develop  their 
flavor. 

S.  W.  D. 


INDEX. 


BREAD— Leavened  and  Other.     (Hygienic?) 


Page 

Biscuits,  cream 140 

"         mush 137 

"        potato 135 

Bread,  batter  loaf 134 

u       corn  (excellent) 137 

"       from  risings 132 

"  "  "         133 

"       Graham    with   potato 

"       sponge 131 

"       hasty  corn 139 

u       leavened  Graham 

(general  directions)  . . .  123 

11       leavened  Graham  ...127 

"         ..129 

«  "         ...130 


Page 

Bread,  pumpkin 138 

"       raisin 132 

"       rye 134 

"         "   flour 134 

"      stale 136 

Gems,  corn  (with  eggs) 139 

"        mush 137 

Leavened  and  other  Bread  .119 

Scone,  currant    141 

"       potato 142 

Shortcake,  buckwheat 139 

Toast,  dry 136 

Yeast,  hop 121 

"         "    122 

u        self -working    123 


Rye,  wheat  and  Indian 
a  it  a    .         it 


BREAD — Steamed.     (Compromise.) 

Page 

Rye,  wheat  and  Indian 265 

Wheaten  and  Indian  bread. 260 
u  u  u  u     261 

u  u  it  tt      261 


Page 

..262 
..262 
..263 
.  264 


..264 


Steamed  Bread. 


260 


BREAD — Unleavened.     (Hygienic?) 

Page 

Gems,  fruit 112 

"      potato 113 

"      wheaten 112 


Page 

Bannocks,  oat  meal Ill 

Bread,  cocoa-nut 108 

"       cold-water  loaf 107 

"       hot-water       "   109 


Crackers,  Graham 109 

"  other ..110 

Crisps,  oat  meal 110 

"       wheat  meal 110 

Crumbs,   hygienic  rusk 113 

(591) 


Rolls,  hard  Graham 104 

"  "         "  (more  briefly)  106 

"      hot-water 108 

"       mush Ill 

Stems 107 

Unleavened  Bread 101 


592 


INDEX. 


CAKE-MAKING. 


Cake, 


apple. .    

Graham   bread 


Page 
..281 
..280 

cream    278 

"         fruit 279 

"         sponge 282 

<<  "      282 

huckleberry 281 

layer ...283 

" 283 


(  Compro7nise.) 

Page 

Cake-Making 275 

Crackers,  fruit 287 

"  {Graham),  fruit... 286 

Rusk,  Graham 284 

"  "       284 

"       mush 285 

Sally  Lunn 287 

"         "       287 

Snaps,  oat  meal 286 


CAKES— Plain  Fruit.     {Hygienic.) 

Page 

Shortcake,  huckleberry. -..  .143 

"  strawberry 142 


Page 

Cake,  strawberry  gem 144 

Fruit  roll  {Graham) 144 

Plain  Fruit  Cakes 142 


CANNING  FRUITS,  Etc.     {Hygienic.) 


Page 

Apples 243 

Blackberries 245 

Canning  Fruits,  Etc 238 

Cherries,  May 246 

"  morello.'. 246 

Cranberries 246 

Currants • 244 

General  directions 238 

Gooseberries 245 

Grapes   243 

Juice,  blackberry 245 

"      currant 244 

lt      gooseberry.....    245 

"      grape 243 


Page 
Juice,  raspberry  and  currant. 245 

"      strawberry 244 

Peaches 243 

Pears 243 

Plums 243 

R  aspberries 244 

"  and  currants  ..  .245 

Sealing  with  wax 242 

Special   directions.. 242 

Strawberries. 244 

"  how  best  to  can. 246 

To  can  vegetables 250 

Tomatoes,  how  to  can 248 


CORN  CAKE,  MUFFINS,  Etc.     (Compromise.) 


Page 

Bread,  corn  custard 267 

u       rice  and  corn 269 

Cake,  bachelor's  Johnny 265 

"      corn 266 

"      Kentucky  corn 266 

"      potato 269 

Cakes,  rye  drop 270 


Page 
Corn  Cake,  Muffins,  Etc..  265 

Gems,  cream 268 

"  "     {with  fruit)  ... .268 

Muffins,  Graham 267 

"  "       and  corn.. 267 


tush. 


270 


potato  and  corn... '269 


INDEX. 


59; 


CORN  PREPARATIONS. 
Page 

Bread,  corn 115 

"       huckleberry 118 

"        rye  and  Indian 117 

"    wheat  and  Indianll7 

"       snow 119 

Cake,  good  breakfast 117 

"      hoe 114 


(Hygienic.) 

Page 

Corn   Preparations 113 

Dodger,  corn 114 

"  "  114 

Gems,         "    115 

u        rye  and  Indian 118 

Pone,  corn 115 

"       steamed  corn 116 


CUSTARDS,  BLANC-MANGES,  Etc 
Page 
Blanc-mange,  corn-starch..  .378 

"  farina 379 

"  "    (witkfruit)881 

"  Irish  moss 377 

"  manioca 377 

"  raspberry 380 

"  sago 378 

"  strawberry 380 

"  tapioca 378 

"  variegated  . ....  .381 

Charlotte  Russe 374 

"     374 

Cottage  cheese 376 


(Compromise.) 

Page 

Custard,  baked 370 

"        boiled 371 

"      371 

"        cold  fruit 376 

u        mountain  (Junket). 375 

"        sago 375 

"        tapioca 375 

Custards,  Blanc-Manges,Etc.368 

Island,  floating 372 

Islands,        "        372 

Rock-work 373 

Strawberry  trifle 373 

Trifle 373 


DRINKS  FOR  THE  SICK. 
Page 
....  224 
....227 


(Hygienic.) 


Drinks  for  the  Sick 

"       raw  fruit 

Juice,  apple 226 

"  "     (dried) 226 

"'       blackberry ...226 

black  raspberry 226 

"       cranberry 227 

"       currant 224 

"       gooseberry 225 

"       grape 225 

"       peach  (dried) 226 

EGGS.     (Compromise.) 
Page 
Eggs 540 


Juice,  red  raspberry. 
u       strawberry  . . . 

Lemonade,  cold 

"  hot 


Page 

.225 
.225 
-227 

.227 


Orangeade 227 

Tea,  apple 228 

"      cranberry 228 

Water,  barley 229 

"        oat 229 

cT       tamarind 228 

"       toast 228 


baked 541 

boiled 540 

poached 541 

scrambled 541 


Page 

Eggs,  scrambled 542 

"       soft  boiled 541 

Omelet 542 

"       543 

"       asparagus . . , 543 


594 


INDEX. 


FISH.     (Compromise.) 


Page 

Brook  trout 500 

Fish 497 

"  {fresh),  baked 499 

"        "        boiled 498 

"        «        broiled 500 

"    {salt) 501 

Codfish  {salt)  and  potato  •  ..505 
"  "      baked 503 


Page 

Codfish  (salt),  boiled 502 

broiled 503 

cakes 504 

scallop 504 

toast 504 

501 


Mackerel 

Oysters — How  about 


505 


FOODS  FOR  INFANTS.     (Hygienic.) 


Page 
Foods  for  Infants 232 


FOODS  FOR  THE  SICK. 
Page 

Dry  toast 231 

Foods  for  the  Sick 229 

Gruel,  corn  meal 230 

"       oat        u 230 

"        "         "    230 


(Hygienic . ) 

Page 

Gruel,  rice .231 

"       wheat  meal 230 

Rice  mush - 231 

Soup,  dried  peach   232 

"       potato 231 


FRUITS  AND  FRUIT 


Apples  and  quinces. 


Page 
.208 


baked 204 

"      204 

(pared) ,  baked 205 

(sweet),        "      204 

dried 219 


roasted . 
steamed 
stewed. . 


207 
207 
205 
206 
207 
207 
209 
223 


u       (szveet) ,  stewed 

"       (unpared),  stewed.. 

Apricots 

Bananas  

Blackberries 216 

Cherries,  black  morello 215 

"  dried 221 

"  for  pies 215 

"  May 215 

Crab-apple  sauce 208 


JUICES.     (Hygienic.) 

Page 

Cranberries 218 

Currants  (red) 212 

"        sweet 222 

Fruits  and  Fruit  Juices 197 

Gooseberries 213 

u  for  pies 214 

Grapes 216 

Huckleberries 218 

Juice,  blackberry 216 

"      currant 212 

u      gooseberry 214 

"      grape 217 

"      raspberry  and  currant. 213 

u      strawberry 212 

Juices,  fruit 211 

"       mixed 218 

Lemons. 223 

Oranges 223 

Peaches,  baked 209 

"         and  apricots  {dried).220 


INDEX. 


595 


Peaches,  stewed 
Pears,  baked.  . . . 

"       dried 

"  stewed  . . . 
Plums 


Page 
.208 
.210 
•  220 
.209 
.210 


"      dried 221 

Pomarius 224 

Prunes 221 


Page 

Prunes  and  plums 222 

Quinces 208 

Raisins 223 

Raspberries  and  currants. . . .  213 

Strawberries 211 

Table    of    proportions    (for 
fruit) 202 


GRAINS — Steamed.     (Hygienic.) 


Page 

Barley,  pearl 147 

"        rolled  (or  crushed) ...  147 

Grains,  the 301 

Hominy 147 

"       coarse 148 

"       fine  (or  com  grits). . .  148 

Rice  (steamed  or  boiled) 149 

"     and  raisins 149 

"      Japanese  method 150 


Page 
Rice,  Southern  method   . . .  .149 

Samp 148 

Steamed  Grains 145 

Table    of    proportions    (for 

grains) 145 

Wheat,   cracked 146 

"       pearl. 147 

"       rolled...... 146 


GRIDDLE-CAKES.     (Compromise.) 


Cakes  (griddle),  buckwheat.. 271 

"  "  corn 274 

"             "             "     bread.. 275 
"  "  crumb 273 

"  "  green  corn  .274 


Page 

Cakes  (griddle),  rice 275 

"  "  wheaten....273 

«  "  "       ....273 

Griddle-Cakes 271 


JELLIES,  JAMS  AND 

Page 

Jam,  currant 396 

"      gooseberry 396 

u      grape  or  plum 396 

' '      raspberry 396 

Jams 395 

"     strawberry    and    black- 
berry   397 

Jellies,  Jams  and  Syrups 390 

Jelly,   apple 394 

"       crab-apple 394 

"       cranberry 394 

39 


SYRUPS.     (Compromise.) 

Page 
Jelly,     currant,     blackberry, 

strawberry,  etc 392 

"      quince 394 

"      raspberry  and  currant. 393 

Jellies,  other  fruit 394 

Making  fruit  jellies 391 

Syrup,  lemon 397 

"       strawberry 397 

Syrups,  fruit 397 

"        mixed 397 

"        quince  and  other. .  .397 


596 


INDEX. 


MEATS,  Etc. 

Page 

Meats,  Etc 449 

{Beef.) 

Baked  beef-steak 455 

«■  "  .. 456 

Beef  omelet. 467 

Beef's  heart.. 469 

"      tongue  with  tomatoes. 468 

Boiled  beef's  tongue 468 

Broiled  beef-steak . .  453 

Corned  beef 463 

Potted       "      466 

Pressed      "       467 

Roast         "       458 

Stewed  beef -steak 457 

Tough  round  steak 454 

{Beef  or  Mutton.) 

A  brown  stew •  •  •  •  465 

Boiled  beef  or  mutton 462 


(  Compromise.) 

Page 

Boiled  meats ..460 

u      meat  with  vegetables. 463 
Cold  sliced  beef  or  mutton.  .465 
Stewed  beef  or  mutton    {pot 
roast) 464 

{Mutton  and  Lamb.) 

Lamb,  moulded 466 

"        roast 459 

"       stewed ...466 

Mutton  chops,  baked 457 

"  "  "    457 

"  "       broiled 454 

"  "       stewed 455 

"         roast 459 

u         stuffed  shoulder  of  .459 
("The  Porker.") 
The  porker 470 


MEAT  PIES,  Etc.     (Compromise.) 


Page 

Meat  Pies,  Etc 506 

Paste,  cream  and  potato 508 

"  •'        "      batter 507 

"        light  cream 507 

Pie,  beef  and  potato 508 

"     cold  meat 511 

"     kettle 516 

u     Lancashire 515 

fe     meat,  with  batter  crust. 512 
"         "  "     potato     "    .510 

'■<     mutton  and      "         "    .514 

"  "       or  lamb 510 

Scallop,  beef  or  mutton 512 

"  meat,  with  eggs  ...  513 
u  mutton  and  potato. 513 
11  "        "■  tomato. 514 


Page 

Steak  roll  {or  pudding) 517 

{Hashes  and  Toasts.) 

Hash  and  macaroni 537 

"      baked 534 

"      beef  and  tomato 536 

"         u     or  mutton 532 

"      rolls 535 

"      with  cold  potatoes 533 

"  "    onions 537 

Hashes  and  Toasts 530 

Minced  lamb 535 

u         turkey 535 

Toast,  asparagus  {with  eggs). 63$ 

11      eggs  and 539 

"      hash 538 

"      milk 538 


MEAT  STEWS,  Etc.     (Compromise.) 


Boiled  dinner. . .    

Browned  flour,  gravies,  etc 
Meat  Stews,  etc 


Page 

.526 
•  520 
.518 


Page 

Stew,  beef  and  tomato . .  524 

"      breakfast 521 

"  "         with  toast... 527 


INDEX. 


597 


Page 
Stew,  chicken  or  squirrel..  .530 

"      cold  meat 527 

"         "         "    and  tomato. 528 

Stew,  economic 529 

"  «         530 

"      Irish 523 


Page 

Stew,  mutton 522 

"  "      and  tomato... 525 

"  "      with  carrots... 523 

"      okra 525 

"      Scotch 524 

Stews,  directions  for  making. 519 


Page 

Cooking  utensils 254 

Miscellany 250 

Packing  grapes 251 


MISCELLANY.     (Hygienic) 

Page 
Pure  water 253 

Storing  for  winter  use 250 

To  keep  fruits  and  vegetables. 251 


MOULDED  FARINACEA. 

Page 

Moulded  corn-starch 383 

"         farina 382 

"         Farinacea 382 

"         Graham 383 

"        rice. 384 


{Compromise?) 

Page 

Moulded  wheat 383 

Rice  and  raisins 384 

"     snow 385 

"     snow-balls 385 


MUSHES. 
Page 

Mush,  corn  meal 152 

"       Graham 153 

"       farina 153 


{Hygienic.') 

Page 

Mush,  oat  meal 152 

Mushes 151 

"        302 


Apple   cream. , 

"       ice 

u  float.., 
"  puffs... 
"       snow... 

Apples,  baked. 


OTHER  DISHES 
Page 

389 

389 

389 

390 

389 

386 


{Compromise.) 

Page 

Apples,  rice 386 

"       stewed 387 

Other  Dishes 386 

Pears,  baked 388 

"      stewed 388 


PASTRIES. 


Cobbler,  apple 164 

"         berry 166 

"         cherry 166 

"         huckleberry 167 

"         peach 165 

"  "     166 


{Hygienic.) 

Page 

Dumplings,  apple 167 

"  berry 168 

"  cherry 169 

Paste,  cream 155 

11          "     and  potato.-...  157 
l(  "     batter 156 


598 


INDEX. 


Page 

Paste,  crumb 157 

"      light  cream 155 

"      oatmeal 157 

Pastries   154 

Pie,  apple 158 

"         "     (dried) 163 

"         "     (green) 159 

"     berry 160 

"     cherry 160 

u     cranberry 161 


Page 

Pie,  currant 161 

"     grape 161 

"     peach 159 

"  "     (dried) 163 

"     plum 162 

u     raspberry  and  currant.  .161 

"     rhubarb 162 

Pies,  Graham 157 

Rolly-poly,  fruit 169 


PIES,  Etc.     (Compromise.) 


Page 

Paste,  cream ...  288 

Pie,  apple  custard 291 

"      cocoa-nut  custard 292 

"      corn-starch     "       293 

"     custard 290 

■■"     Irish  potato 294 

"  "     295 

u      lemon 293 

"     (with  meringue)  .  •  294 

u      peach  meringue 289 

"     pumpkin 296 

"  "         (with  less  eggs). 29G 

"  "         (without  eggs).. 297 

u      rice  custard 291 

"      squash 298 


Pie,  sweet  potato 

Pie-crust  glaze — 

Pies,  Etc 

"     fruit 

Tart,   cranberry 

u      cream  raspberry. 

et      currant 

"      damson 

l<      gooseberry 300 

u      green  apple 298 

"      lemon * 298 

u      raspberry  and  currant. 299 

"      rhubarb   301 

"      strawberry 300 


Page 
-295 

.288 
.288 
.289 
.300 
.299 
.299 
.300 


PLAIN   DESSERTS.     (Compromise.) 

Page 

Pudding,     bread    and     fruit 
dessert 355 

Pudding,  brown  Betty 354 

"         child's  fruit 354 

"         dried  fruit....    ...353 

"       Graham  (with  fruit).35S 

"       minute 358 

11       rice  and  apple 357 


Page 

Dumplings 359 

"  suet 356 

Frumenty 357 

Mush,  blackberry 359 

"      farina 357 

"  "       358 

Plain  Desserts 353 

Pudding,  boiled  suet 356 


POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Page 


(Poultry.) 

Chicken,  broiled 481 

"  pie 484 


(Compromise .) 

Page 

Chicken,  pot-pie 485 

"         pressed 487 

"         scallop 484 


INDEX. 


599 


Page 

Chicken,  stewed 483 

Chickens,  roast 480 

"  smothered 482 

'*  stewed  whole 483 

Poultry 472 

Turkey,  boned 479 

"        cold  sliced 477 

"         pie 477 

"         roast 474 

u        scallop 478 

stew 479 

"        wild 476 

(  Wild  Birds  and   Other   Game.) 

Pie.   game 496 

"      partridge  or  quail 493 

'•      pigeon 490 

PRACTICAL  HINTS. 
Page   | 

Addendum 580 

Bills  of  fare 570 

Cellar,  the 565 

Dining-room  and  kitchen. .  .544 


Page 

Pie,   squirrel 495 

Pigeons,  wild 489 

Prairie-fowls 492 

Quail  on  toast 492 

Quails,  grouse,  etc 490 

"  "  "  broiled.. 491 

"  "  "  roasted.. 491 

"  u  "  stewed  ..491 

Small  birds ...492 

Squirrels  and  rabbits 494 

"  "         "     broiled.494 

"  u        «     stewed.  494 

Venison 470 

"        pasty 471 

Wild  Birds  and  Other  Game.488 


Help,  the 554 

Hints  on  marketing 560 

Housekeeping 551 

PRESERVING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES.      (Hygienic.) 


(Compromise.) 

Page 

Huckster  system,  the 557 

Ice-house,  the 567 

Lunch  for  picnics 578 

Practical  Hints 544 

Table  etiquette 547 

Traveling  lunches 579 


Page 

Drying  fruits 234 

'•       vegetables 235 

Evaporating  fruit  juices   ..   236 

PUDDINGS -Other. 

Page 

Other  Puddings 337 

(Baked.) 
Pudding,  apple  (without  eggs). 337 

"  "      batter 340 

"  ••       Graham  ....337 

"  **'      tapioca 349 

"      350 

"         baked  batter 340 

"         berry  and  bread... 338 

corn  custard 342 

"         cracked   wheat 351 

"         damson  plum 339 


Page 
Preserving  Fruits  and  Vege- 
tables  234 

Refrigeration 238 

(Compromise.) 

Page 

Pudding,  granula 351 

"         huckleberry     and 

bread 338 

"         Irish  potato 352 

u       m  an  i  o  c  a  (with  fru  it) .  348 

"         puff 341 

"         rice  and  apple    ...348 
"  "      "     berry  ....347 

"  ".      "     raisin. ...347 

"  sago  "     apple.... 350 

"  sweet  potato 352 

"       tapioca  (with  raisins)M9 


600 


INDEX. 


Page 
(Steamed.) 
Pudding,     children's     rolly- 

poly 340 

"         huckleberry  Indian346 

"        steamed  apple 339 

"  "         Indian... 344 


Page 
Pudding,  steamed  Indian... 345 
"         strawberry  Indian. 345 
{Boiled.) 

Pudding,  boiled  batter 342 

"  "     Indian 343 


PUDDING  SAUCES,  CREAMS,  Etc. 
Page 

Cream,  currant 365 

lemon 366 

mock 360 

orange 366 

pine-apple 367 

raspberry 365 

«      and  currant.366 

snow 364 

strawberry 364 

sweet 360 


(  Comprom ise . )  Page 

Cream,  whipped 363 

Creams, blackberry  and  other366 
u        quince  "       "     367 

Custard,  soft 361 

Dressing  of  fruit 363 

Pudding    Sauces,    Creams, 

Etc 360 

Sauce,  fruit 362 

"       lemon 361 

"       mixed 363 


Pudding 


PUDDINGS-Selection  of. 
Page 
{Baked.) 

Pudding,  apple  batter 314 

u      (grated)  ... .306 

"       (sweet) 307 

"      tapioca  ....331 

baked  batter 319 

"      blackberry. 316 
"      fruit  roll... 318 

"      Indian 324 

"  "       ....324 

"  "       ....325 

bird's-nest 305 

bread..   310 

"  (with  meringue)3ll 

"  and  fruit 305 

cocoa-nut 312 

farina .335 

..335 

.  336 

Indian  (withfruit)32& 

lemon 309 

u       meringue.  309 
u       tapioca 

(custard) 332 

lemon  tapioca ....  333 


green  corn 


(Compromise .) 

Page 

I,  manioca 329 

of  cold  rice 329 

peach  batter 313 

rhubarb  Charlotte. 307 

rice 328 

"    328 

sago 334 

"     (with  fruit)  ..335 

tapioca. ...    330 

"      (with  fruit). ,333 

Puddings,  Queen  of 311 

(Steamed.) 

Pudding,  berry 315 

cherry  roll 318 

Christmas  plum.. 322 

Graham  (withfruit)32% 

u  u      a      323 

huckleberry. ......  315 

steamed  batter 320 

"  "  ....320 
"  "  ....321 
"  Indian....  326 
"  "  ...327 
"  rolly-poly.316 
Selection  of  Puddings 305 


INDEX. 


601 


RIPE  FRUITS  FOR  DESSERTS 
Page 

Apples 399 

Cherries 405 

Currants 403 

Fresh  figs 406 

Frosted  fruit 406 

Gooseberries 404 

Grapes 405 


Huckleberries 405 


{Compromise. ~) 

Page 

Oranges  and  bananas 402 

Peaches 400 

Pears  and  plums 401 

Raspberries  and  currants — 404 
"  blackberries  and 

dewberries 403 

Ripe  Fruits  for  Desserts 398 


Strawberries. 


402 


SOUPS.     ( Comprom  ise .) 


Page 

Broth,  barley 439 

Soup,  "all  the  garden" 449 

barley  and  tomato 440 

"     broth 439 

bean 444 

"     and  tomato 445 

corn     "  «        ....441 

French  vegetable 448 

okra  and  tomato .....  441 
pea  (without  meat) 443 


Page 

Soup,  potato 437 

"     and  tomato 439 

split  pea 442 

tomato 438 

''      and  pea 443 

turnip 445 

vegetable 446 

"         447 

"         447 

Soups 436 


The  Compromise 


THE  COMPROMISE. 

Page 

259 


THE  HYGIENIC  DIETARY. 


The  Hygienic  Dietary. 


Page 
.100 


THE  REASON  WHY. 


Page 

Butter  and  eggs 55 

Constituents  of  food 11 

Dietetic  rules 93 

Drinking  at  meals 72 

Food  and  physical  develop- 
ment   15 

Food  combinations,  etc....  84 

u      intellect  and  morals..  79 

Fruits,  the 33 

Hints  on  cooking 95 

Meat  as  an  article  of  diet ....  42 

Milk 53 


Page 
Pepper  and  other  condiments  71 

Pork-eating 48 

Salt 61 

Sugar 57 

Tables  (from  Pavy) 11 


Tea,  coffee,  etc 

The  Reason  Why.. 
Two  meals  or  three. 
Vegetables,  the. 


Wheat  and  other  cereals .... 


75 
11 
92 
38 
20 


Wheaten  vs.  white  flour 27 


602 


INDEX. 


VEGETABLES 

Page 

Asparagus 184 

"        toast 185 

Beans,  baked 189 

"  " 189 

"        (dried),  boiled 189 

"        (fresh),  garden 188 

"        Lima 188 

"        (dried),  steamed 190 

<*  "        stewed 190 

"        string 188 

Beets,  baked..    187 

"      boiled.. 187 

Cabbage,  stewed 186 

Cantaloupes 196 

Carrots 184 

Cauliflower 186 

Celery 195 

Chestnuts,  boiled 195 

"  roasted 195 

Corn  and  tomatoes 192 

u     (green),  boiled 190 

"  "        roasted 193 

"  "        stewed 191 

"     canned.. 191 

"     green 190 

"     (dried),  stewed 193 

Cucumbers 195 

Lettuce 194 

Melons 196 

Onions 194 

Parsnips 184 

Peas,  dried 193 

"      green 193 

u      split 194 

Potato,  the 172 

Potatoes,  baked 176 


(Hygienic.) 

Page 

Potatoes  (peeled),  baked  ....  176 

"  "        boiled....  173 

11         (mashed),  browned.  175 

"         (sliced),  «        .175 

"         in  jackets 172 

11         mashed 174 

u         model-cooked 174 

"         roasted 176 

"        steamed . .  174 

"        stewed 175 

"         (sweet),   baked   ...178 

"  "  browned.  177 

"  dried  ....178 

"        sweet 177 

Pumpkin 183 

Rhubarb 196 

Spinach,  etc 186 

Squashes  (winter),  baked  ....  181 
"  .  "         stewed...  182 

"  summer 182 

Succotash 192 

Tomato  toast 179 

Tomatoes,  baked 179 

11  "       ....180 

u  canned 181 

"  etc ■ 178 

"  scalloped 181 

"  scrambled 180 

"  sliced..... 178 

"  stewed 179 

"  "       179 

11  with  corn 180 

Turnips 183 

Vegetables 169 

Watermelons 196 


VEGETABLES.     (Compromise.) 
Page 

Asparagus 421 

Beans,  baked 427 

"       (dried),  boiled 426 

"       Lima  and  butter 425 


Page 

Beans,  shelled 424 

"       stewed 426 

"       string 423 

"       wax 424 


INDEX. 


603 


Beets,  boiled 429 

Cabbage 420 

"         and  tomatoes 420 

Carrots,  boiled 428 

u        stewed 429 

Cauliflower 421 

Celery 434 

Corn  and  tomatoes 419 

"     (sweet) ,  baked 419 

"     (green),  boiled 418 

"         "     cut  from  the  cob.419 

"        "     stewed 418 

Cucumbers 435 

Egg-plant 431 

Lettuce 435 

Melons 436 

Okras 423 

Onions,  old c  .435 

"        young 434 

Parsnips.* 427 

Peas,  canned 423 

"      green 422 

Potato,  browned 412 

"       creamed 411 

"       hashed 413 

"       puff 412 

11       snow 412 

Potatoes 408 

"         and  tomatoes. 417 

"        baked 410 


Page 
Potatoes  (peeled),   baked. ...  .410 

"        boiled 408 

"         in  jackets 410 

"         mashed 409 

u         new 411 

"        stewed 411 

"        sweet 413 

"  "     baked 414 

"  "     boiled 413 

"  "     roasted 414 

Pumpkin  sauce 433 

Rhubarb 434 

Salsify,  or  vegetable  oyster.  .430 

Spinach 430 

Squashes,  summer 432 

«  winter 432 

"  "     baked 433 

"  "     stewed 433 

Succotash 425 

Tomato  toast 415 

Tomatoes 414 

"         baked 416 

"         broiled 417 

u         scalloped 416 

'*         scrambled 415 

"        sliced 414 

"        stewed 415 

"        stuffed 417 

Turnips 428 

Vegetables 407 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


DD02bD3774fl 


