THE  HENDERSON 
COOK  BOOK 


1914 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 

PRESENTED  BY 

Mary  Dawson 


C641.5 

H496f 

1914 


/-7  Of, 

/•■•      ?  — — — * 


THE 


HENDERSON 
COOK  BOOK 


SECOND  EDITION 


Here's  to  the  Home — a  man's  kingdom, 
a  child's  paradise  and  a  woman's  world 


Compiled  by  the 

Ladies'  Aid  Society  of  the  First  Baptist  Church 
Henderson,  North  Carolina 

1914 


COMMERCIAL  PRINTING  COMPANY,  RALEIGH,   N.   C. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

Four  tablespoonfuls 1  gill 

12  tablespoonfuls  dry  material 1  cup 

16  tablespoonfuls  liquid  material 1  cup 

1  cup  liquid  material 2  gills 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  sugar 1  oz. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  butter 2  oz. 

2  rounded  tablespoonfuls  flour 1  oz. 

1  cup  butter  or  sugar %  lb. 

2  cups  flour V-2  lb. 

1  pint  butter 1  lb. 

1  pint  sugar 1  lb. 

1  quart  flour 1  lb. 

AN  OUNCE 

Housekeepers  are  often  confused  by  the  mingling  of 
weights  and  measures  in  a  recipe,  therefore  an  accurate 
schedule  is  a  good  thing  to  have  around : 

An  ounce  of  granulated  sugar  equals  two  level  table- 
spoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  flour,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  butter,  two  level  teaspoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  ground  coffee,  five  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  cornstarch,  three  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  thyme,  eight  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  grated  chocolate,  three  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  pepper,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  salt,  two  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  mustard,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  cloves,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  cinnamon,  four  and  a  half  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  mace,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  curry,  four  level  tablespoonfuls. 

An  ounce  of  chopped  'suet,  a  fourth  of  a  cupful. 

An  ounce  of  olive  oil,  two  tablespoonfuls. 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Weights  and  measures 2 

Soups   5 

Fish 12 

Sauces  for  Fish 17 

Oysters 18 

Meats   21 

Sauces  and  dressings  for  meats 31 

Poultry  and  game .     33 

Dressings  and  gravies 38 

Vegetables 40 

Entrees 50 

Croquettes 50 

Fritters 52 

Sandwiches 55 

Salads 61 

Salad  dressings 70 

Toast 73 

Eggs  and  omelets '.     75 

Breads    79 

-v    Batter  breads 86 

£  Pastry    91 

Pies    92 

S  Puddings 98 

«-  Sauces 104 

<c  Cakes   107 

*  Small  cakes 117 

H.  Layer  cakes 124 

Icings  and  fillings 133 

Desserts   138 

O  Frozen  desserts 146 

Cheese 155 

Beverages 158 


4  CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Cocktails    163 

Candies 165 

Preserves  and  jellies 174 

Canned  fruits  and  vegetables 180 

Pickles  and  catsups 183 

Miscellaneous 193 

Food  for  the  sick 1 194 

Helps  for  housekeepers 197 

Things  you  ought  to  know 199 

Kitchen   suggestions   I 205 

Housewifely  advice 207 


THE  HENDERSON  COOK  BOOK 


SOUPS 

CLAM  BOUILLON. 

Procure  a  hundred  little  necks  in  the  shell,  scrub  and 
rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  put  into  a  kettle  with  three 
quarts  of  hot  water  and  cook  until  the  shells  open.  Drain, 
strain  the  broth  and  return  to  the  kettle,  while  you  remove 
the  clams  from  the  shells  and  chop  them  fine.  Add  them  to 
the  hot  broth,  and  season  with  three  tablespoonf uls  of  butter ; 
salt,  if  necessary,  and  a  little  pepper.  Cook  ten  minutes  and 
serve  in  cups  on  plates  with  a  little  minced  parsley,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top.  Pass  crackers  or 
little  cubes  of  toasted  bread  with  them.  Do  not  fill  your 
dishes  more  than  half  full. 

If  you  do  not  wish  to  use  the  fresh  clams,  you  can  buy  the 
clam  juice  or  clam  bouillon  already  prepared. 

BEEF   BOUILLON. 

As  this  is  always  a  staple,  directions  for  its  making  may 
not  come  amiss.  Beef  bouillon  proper  is  beef  broth  prepared 
from  the  liquor  of  bouillon  or  boiled  beef,  with  vegetables  to 
season.  Neither  beef  nor  vegetables  are  boiled  longer  than  is 
necessary  to  cook  them,  and  supplementary  bone  and  sinew 
are  added  in  order  to  get  as  much  gelatine  as  possible.  To 
five  pounds  of  good  fresh  beef  from  the  middle  of  the  leg, 
allow  two  pounds  of  bone,  two  quarts  and  a  half  of  cold  water, 
a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  small  bunch  of  kitchen  herbs, 
two  cloves,  two  peppercorns,  one  onion,  one  stick  of  celery  or 
a  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  one  small  carrot  and  half  a  tur- 
nip. Have  the  butcher  crush  the  bones,  and  lay  them  in  the 
pot  first.    Wipe  off  the  meat,  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  remov- 


6  SOUPS 

ing  all  the  fat.  Lay  the  meat  on  the  bones,  pour  the  cold 
water  over,  add  the  salt,  and  place  on  the  range  where  it  will 
come  very  slowly  to  a  boil.  As  soon  as  the  scum  rises,  remove, 
and  if  the  liquor  boils  too  fast,  pour  in  a  small  cupful  of  cold 
water  to  check  the  boiling  and  make  the  scum  rise.  Repeat 
this  twice.  Now  add  the  seasoning  herbs  and  sliced  vegeta- 
bles and  simmer  slowly — not  boil — for  three  or  four  hours, 
but  remove  vegetables  and  herbs  before  they  cook  to  "rags," 
the  meat  only  remaining  in  the  pot  until  the  end  of  the  pro- 
cess. During  the  cooking  process  the  soup  should  boil  down 
to  about  three  and  a  half  pints.  Strain,  pour  into  a  perfectly 
clean  vessel,  and  when  cold  remove  the  fat.  When  ready  to 
serve,  heat  and  serve  in  cups.  This  will  suffice  for  eight 
persons. 

If  one  needs  a  larger  quantity,  the  portions  should  be  in- 
creased accordingly,  or  supplemented  by  the  bouillon  cap- 
sules or  extract  of  beef  dissolved  in  hot  water.  It  should  be 
rich  and  stimulating,  clear,  with  an  agreeable  odor  and  rich 
brown  color.  If  not  dark  enough,  a  lime  caramel  or  kitchen 
bouquet  will  make  it  all  right.  Little  dinner  rolls  or  recep- 
tion wafers  go  with  the  bouillon. 

CREAM    TOMATO    SOUP. 

Stir  together  until  smooth  2  tablespoonfuls  flour  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  melted  butter.  Cook  in  a  stewpan  slowly, 
adding  1  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  stirring  until  smooth  and 
creamy.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stew  a  small  can 
of  tomatoes  (1  pound),  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  while  hot 
add  to  the  above  cream.  Cook  them  thoroughly  together  and 
serve. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Elmore. 

CREAM   OF   TOMATO   SOUP. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  pint  stewed  tomatoes,  1  large  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  sprig  of  parsley,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
Vi  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Put 
the  tomatoes  on  to  stew  with  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 


SOUPS  7 

let  them  stew  for  fifteen  minutes.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil. 
Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  add  to  the  milk  when 
boiling  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Now  press  the 
tomatoes  throng  a  sieve  and,  if  ready  to  use  the  soup,  add  the 
sugar  and  soda  to  the  tomatoes  and  then  the  boiling  milk; 
stir  thoroughly  and  serve  immediately.  It  must  not  go  on 
the  fire  after  mixing  the  milk  with  the  tomatoes  or  it  will 
separate.  If  you  are  not  ready,  let  them  stand  on  the  fire 
separately  and  mix  them  when  wanted. — Mrs.  Thos.  Bullock. 

CREAM  CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Scraps  and  bones  of  chicken  or  turkey,  3  pints  cold  water, 
1  stalk  celery  cut  in  pieces,  1  large  spoon  of  butter,  2  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  sliced  onion,  1  pint  cold  milk, 
salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  slowly  the  chicken,  water,  celery 
and  onion  until  reduced  to  about  one  quart.  Strain  out  the 
bones.  Melt  butter  and  stir  it  into  flour  and  add  the  milk. 
Boil  until  thick  and  add  to  the  chicken  broth  just  before 
serving.     Season  and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  D.  H.  Mangum. 

VEGETABLE    SOUP    WITH    BEEF. 

Ten  cent  soup  bone,  5  quarts  cold  water,  1  onion  (small), 
1  turnip,  1  potato,  1  carrot,  1  parsnip,  1  root  of  celery,  1  tea- 
cup chopped  cabbage,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2  tablespoons 
of  rice.  Put  soup  bone  in  soup  kettle,  add  the  cold  water ; 
place  over  a  moderate  fire.  Bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  skim  off 
skum  and  simmer  gently  4  hours.  Remove  the  meat  and 
skim  again.  Wash  the  vegetables,  cut  into  dice  and  add  them 
to  the  soup.  Simmer  1  hour  longer,  season  to  taste,  and  it  is 
ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  D.  H.  Mangum. 

TOMATO  BISQUE. 

Strain  carefully  1  pint  of  tomato  liquid  and  put  over  the 
fire  in  a  porcelain  kettle.  Put  on  in  a  double  boiler  a  gen- 
erous pint  of  fresh  milk,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  add 


8  SOUPS 

a  heaping  dessertspoon  of  flour  which  has  been  smoothly 
blended  with  a  third  of  a  cup  of  milk  and  allowed  to  cook 
about  ten  minutes.  Next  add  to  the  boiling  tomato  a  scant 
half-teaspoon  of  soda.  Stir  thoroughly  and  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Add  to  the  boiling  milk  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Pour  this  into  the  tomato  and  remove 
quickly  from  stove.  On  no  account  allow  the  mixture  to 
boil.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve  immediately. — 
Mrs.  Henry  Powell. 

CREAM    OF    PEA    SOUP. 

Press  through  a  colander  a  pint  of  cooked  peas;  put  them 
into  a  double  boiler  with  one  quart  of  milk;  add  a  bay  leaf 
and  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice  or  grated  onion.  Rub  together 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  two  of  flour ;  add  to  the  mixture, 
stir  and  cook  until  thick  and  smooth ;  about  10  minutes  will 
suffice.  Add  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  white  pepper,  and 
serve  with  croutons. 

CKEAM    OF    CELERY    SOUP. 

Chop  fine  enough  celery  to  make  1  quart  by  measure.  Cover 
with  1  quart  water  and  simmer  gently  for  20  minutes.  Press 
through  a  colander.  Put  a  quart  of  milk  in  double  boiler. 
Rub  together  2  tablespoons  butter  and  2  of  flour ;  add  to 
milk;  stir  until  thick  and  smooth.  Add  a  teaspoon  salt,  a 
saltspoon  white  pepper.  Add  the  celery  mixture ;  strain  all 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Waddill. 

CREAM   OF    CORN    SOUP. 

Score  each  row  of  grains  on  6  ears  of  corn;  then  with  a 
knife  press  cob  carefully  and  throw  the  cobs  into  a  kettle. 
Cover  with  quart  of  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  strain  and 
add  to  scraped  corn.  Rub  together  2  tablespoons  butter  and  1 
of  flour;  stir  into  the  mixture  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 
Add  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  saltspoon  pepper. 


SOUPS  9 

If  canned  corn  is  used  allow  1  can  to  1  quart  of  milk,  with 
the  prescribed  seasoning. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Waddill. 

CLAM    CHOWDEB CONEY    ISLAND. 

One-fourth  lb.  salt  pork  or  bacon,  1  quart  tomatoes,  1  pint 
sliced  Irish  potatoes,  3  quarts  water,  1  quart  clams,  2  small 
onions.  Cut  the  pork  into  bits,  also  the  onions;  fry  both 
brown.  Take  tomatoes,  pork  and  onions  and  put  with  clams 
(after  clams  have  been  previously  chopped  fine),  and  then 
juice  of  clams.  Add  water,  salt,  pepper,  a  little  thyme,  a 
handful  flour,  and  a  handful  crackers  broken.  Stew  all  to- 
gether for  one  hour  slowly. — Mrs.  C.  0.  Fountain. 


CEEAM  OF  ASPABAGUS   SOUP. 

Wash  1  bundle  of  asparagus ;  cut  off  the  tops,  throw  them 
into  a  pint  of  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  gently  for  20 
minutes;  drain,  saving  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled. 
Add  to  this  the  remaining  part  of  the  asparagus,  cut  into 
small  pieces;  cook  for  15  minutes  and  press  in  a  colander. 
Put  a  quart  of  milk  in  double  boiler;  add,  rubbed  together, 
2  tablespoons  each  of  flour  and  butter;  cook  until  thick  and 
creamy ;  add  the  asparagus  that  has  been  pressed  through  the 
colander,  and  when  hot  add  the  asparagus  tips;  season  and 
serve. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Waddill. 

ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

Open  one  can  of  asparagus,  reserve  one  cup  of  liquor  from 
the  can.  Cut  off  asparagus  tips  and  put  aside,  rub  stems 
through  a  sieve.  Heat  in  the  double  boiler  the  asparagus 
liquor  and  three  cupfuls  of  milk,  blend  thoroughly  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted 
flour,  and  stir  in  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  cold  milk.  Pour 
heated  milk  gradually  on  blended  butter  and  flour,  return  to 
double  boiler  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Add  strained  aspara- 
gus and  heat  again.     Season  with  one  and  one-half  level  tea- 


10  SOUPS 

spoonful  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper.    Lastly,  add  the  aspara- 
gus tips  and  serve. 

SPINACH    SOUP. 

Four  cups  of  white  stock  (broth  in  which  veal  or  chicken 
has  been  cooked),  2  quarts  of  spinach,  3  cups  of  water  in 
which  the  spinach  was  cooked,  2  cups  of  milk,  *4  cup  of 
butter,  1-3  cup  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  ^4  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  sugar,  1-8  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Wash,  pick  over  and  cook  spinach  thirty  minutes  in  boiling 
water,  to  which  V4  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  added.  Drain, 
chop  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  wetting  to  this  mix- 
ture and  bring  to  a  boiling  point.  Bind  (or  thicken)  with  the 
butter  and  flour  rubbed  together.  Add  the  milk,  bring  to 
boiling  point  and  season  to  taste. 

BAKED-BEAN     SOUP. 

Cook  one  hour  2  cups  of  cold  baked  beans,  2  cups  of 
tomato,  %  onion  and  1  quart  of  water.  Rub  through  a  sieve ; 
add  3  tablespoonfuls  each  of  butter  and  flour;  cook  ten 
minutes ;  season  to  taste ;  strain  and  serve  with  crisp  crackers 
or  croutons. 

OATMEAL   POEEIDGE. 

Oatmeal  Salt  Water 

A  special  saucepan  should  be  kept  exclusively  for  cooking 
oatmeal.  Pour  into  the  saucepan  one  cupful  of  water  for 
each  person  to  be  served.  Boil,  and  then  sprinkle  into  it  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  oatmeal  for  each  cupful  of  water.  Stir  well 
to  keep  smooth  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Add  salt  to 
taste  and  boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  Pour  into  warm  plates 
and  serve  with  milk,  butter  or  syrup.  Any  stewed  fruit  is  a 
nice  addition. 

BRUNSWICK   STEW. 

Take  one  chicken  and  2  or  3  slices  of  bacon  (cut  up  chicken 
as  if  you  were  going  to  fry  it).  Put  this  on  in  a  large  boiler 
with  the  chicken  well  covered  with  water,  cook  until  nearly 


SOUPS  11 

done;  now  add  3  quarts  of  nice  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  fine,  2 
quarts  of  corn,  12  or  14  nice  size  Irish  potatoes  (cooked  in 
separate  vessel)  mashed  and  put  in,  1  large  tablespoon  of 
butter,  1  large  tablespoon  of  lard,  some  salt,  black  pepper, 

2  quarts  of  butter-beans,  1  large  onion,  cut  real  fine. 

Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  I  often  add  a  little  corn- 
starch or  x/i  cup  of  flour  made  into  a  smooth  paste.  Stir 
constantly  and  cook  down  until  it  is  right  thick,  and  the 
chicken  is  cooked  all  to  pieces.  You  can  make  this  of  beef, 
chicken,  squirrel  or  birds.  It  is  very  good  to  use  two  different 
kinds  of  meats  in  one  stew.  You  can  can  this  while  boiling 
hot  and  in  air-tight  jars  and  keep  for  many  days.- — Mrs.  Jos. 
R.  Rankin. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW    (SMALL). 

Take  one  chicken  or  two  squirrels,  cut  up  and  put  over  the 
fire,  with  V2  gallon  water.  Let  stew  until  the  bones  can  be 
removed.  Add  V2  dozen  large  tomatoes,  1  pint  butter-beans, 
corn  cut  from  V2  dozen  ears,  and  1  large  Irish  potatoes  sliced. 
Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  until  thick 
enough  to  be  eaten  with  a  fork. 

BRUNSWICK   STEW. 

Two  frying-size  chickens ;  cut  the  chickens  up,  put  in  a 
deep  vessel  with  2  quarts  of  water ;  cook  until  thoroughly 
done,  take  out  of  vessel,  leaving  the  water  from  the  chicken, 
and  chop  fine  3  medium  sized  ears  of  corn,  %  pint  lima  beans, 

3  or  4  good  sized  tomatoes  in  separate  vessels.  When  done,  cut 
corn  from  cob,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  beans  sea- 
soned the  same,  tomatoes  with  same,  and  a  little  sugar.  Re- 
turn the  chicken  and  vegetables  to  the  vessel  in  which  the 
chicken  was  boiled,  cook  until  thick  enough  to  eat  with  a 
fork.  Add  water  if  necessary.  This  will  serve  ten  people. — 
Col  T.  L.  Jones. 


FISH 

Remember  when  frying  fish  that  if  the  fat  in  which  it  is 
fried  is  not  quite  boiling  the  fish  will  be  greasy,  sodden  and 
unwholesome.  Never  put  in  the  fish  till  a  blue  smoke  is  rising 
from  the  fat. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Clean,  wipe  and  dry  fish,  rub  over  with  salt,  butter,  pepper 
and  a  little  flour.  Split  fish  open  and  stuff  with  seasoned 
bread  crumbs.  Put  narrow  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  in  bottom 
of  pan,  place  fish  on  top  and  bake  in  hot  oven,  without  water; 
baste  frequently. 

BOILED  FISH. 

Wrap  fish  in  clean  white  cloth,  tying  securely.  Cover  with 
boiling  salted  water  in  pan  of  same  length.  Boil  about  thirty 
minutes.     Serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

BOILED  BOCK. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  fish  and  sew  it  in  a  cloth.  Put  in  a  long 
pot  containing  boiling  water  with  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  1 
of  vinegar.  Boil  gently  and  allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the 
pound.     Serve  with  egg  sauce. 

PLANKED   SHAD. 

Fasten  the  shad,  split  without  separating  the  parts,  skin 
side  down,  upon  a  heated  and  oiled  oak  or  rosewood  plank. 
Brush  over  with  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake 
over  a  dripping-pan  in  quick  oven  for  about  30  minutes,  bast- 
ing frequently  with  butter.  Set  the  plank  on  serving  dish, 
garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Waddill. 

BAKED  SHAD. 

After  cleaning  make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pep- 
per, butter  and  parsley  and  mix  this  up  with  the  beaten 


FISH  13 

yolks  of  eggs;  stuff  the  fish  with  it  and  sew  it  up  or  fasten 
a  string  around  it.  Pour  over  it  a  little  water  and  some 
butter  and  bake  as  you  would  a  fowl.  A  shad  will  require 
from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  quarter  to  bake.  Garnish  with 
slices  of  lemon,  watercress,  etc.  Dressing. — Boil  up  the 
gravy  in  which  the  shad  was  baked,  put  in  a  large  tablespoon 
of  catsup,  1  tablespoon  of  brown  flour,  which  has  been  wet 
with  cold  water,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Serve  in  a  sauce- 
boat. — Mrs.  D.  H.  Mangum. 


TO    BKOIL   FISH. 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Split  so  that  when  laid  flat  the 
backbone  will  be  in  the  middle,  or  take  the  backbone  out. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  lay,  inside  down,  upon  a  buttered  grid- 
iron over  a  clear  fire  until  it  is  nicely  colored,  then  turn. 
When  done  put  upon  a  hot  dish,  butter  plentifully  and  pepper. 
Put  a  hot  cover  over  it  and  send  to  table. 

DEVILED    FISH. 

One-half  lb.  cooked  fish,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  2-3  cup  milk,  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs,  seasoning.  Mince  the  fish  coarsely, 
make  a  thick  sauce  with  the  butter,  flour  and  milk,  add  to  this 
the  fish,  yolks  of  eggs  mashed  finely,  parsley  and  seasoning 
of  salt,  paprika  and  lemon  juice.  Butter  a  baking  dish  or 
scallop  shells,  fill  with  the  mixture,  sprinkle  crumbs  over  the 
top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

First  boil  soaked  cod,  then  chop  fine,  put  to  it  an  equal 
quantity  of  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed;  moisten  it  with 
beaten  eggs  or  milk,  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper.  Form 
it  in  small,  round  cakes,  rather  more  than  half  inch  thick; 
flour  the  outside,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  they  are  a  delicate 
brown.  Like  fish,  these  must  be  fried  gently,  the  lard  being 
boiling  hot  when  they  are  put  in. 


14  FISH 

SALT    FISH. 

Salt  fish  should  be  soaked  over  night  in  a  large  vessel, 
washing  the  fish  in  two  waters  before  putting  into  soak,  not 
forgetting  to  scrape  the  scales  off. 

Herrings  are  to  be  dipped  in  meal  and  fried  in  hot  bacon 
fat  or  lard.  Mackerel  are  preferred  by  many  boiled  and 
served  with  butter  and  slice  of  lemon ;  or,  broiled  and  served 
the  same  way. 

DEVILED   CRABS. 

One  cupful  of  crab  meat,  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  yolks  of  two  hard 
cooked  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper,  red 
pepper  and  paprika,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  milk  and  buttered 
breadcrumbs.  Put  the  butter  and  flour  into  a  saucepan  and 
mix  over  the  fire ;  add  gradually  the  milk  and  stir  until  boil- 
ing; add  the  seasonings,  the  Worcestershire  sauce,  chopped 
parsley,  and  lemon  juice ;  allow  to  boil  for  five  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time,  then  add  the  crab  meat,  and  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Arrange  in  crab  shells. 
Cover  with  buttered  breadcrumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 
fifteen  minutes.     Serve  hot,  decorated  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

DEVILED   CRABS. 

Two  cans  of  crabs.  Add  1^2  cups  of  grated  bread  crumbs, 
1  teacup  of  vinegar,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  butter,  2  tea- 
spoons of  mustard  of  ordinary  strength,  a  little  salt  and  black 
pepper,  saltspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  the  yolks  of  3  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  one  raw,  one  well  beaten.  After  mixing  fill 
the  shells,  cover  with  breadcrumbs  and  bits  of  butter  and 
bake.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Singleton. 

LOBSTER   A   LA   NEWBURY. 

Two  cups  lobster,  V-2  cup  sherry,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  cup 
cream;  seasoning.     As  soon  as  the  water  is  boiling  in  hot 


FISH  15 

water  pan,  put  the  cream  into  chafing-dish,  and  when  thor- 
oughly heated  add  the  beaten  yolks,  stirring  constantly. 
After  the  sauce  has  thickened  add  lobster  and  sherry,  and  as 
soon  as  heated  through,  serve. 

DEVILED   LOBSTER. 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  4  tablespoonf  uls  of  butter,  and  when 
bubbling  hot  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  pint  of  cream, 
salt,  cayenne  and  minced  parsley.  Parboil  a  red  pepper  cut 
in  strips;  add  this  to  the  sauce  with  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
onion  juice,  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  pinch  of  mustard  and  a 
few  drops  of  tabasco.  Re-heat,  with  a  pint  of  lobster  meat. 
Serve  on  rounds  of  buttered  toast. 

SMOKED    SALMON" 

Is  first  soaked  and  then  broiled,  served  with  melted  butter 
and  lemon.     Beware  of  salting  salt  fish.     Taste  first. 

A  SAVORY  SALMON. 

One  cupful  of  boiled  salmon  (canned  salmon  may  be  used), 
3  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  bread- 
crumbs, one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Flake  the  fish,  add  the  eggs  beaten,  the  bread- 
crumbs, butter,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Lay  on  a  buttered 
platter,  cover  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Serve  hot,  deco- 
rated with  peas. 

CURRIED  SALMON. 

One  can  of  salmon.  Put  1  large  spoon  of  butter  in  chafing 
dish,  add  salmon,  1  ounce  of  curry  powder,  1  tablespoon  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  wineglass  of  sherry  wine,  juice  of  1 
lemon,  little  salt,  teaspoon  mustard,  little  cayenne  pepper. 
Cook  few  minutes  and  serve  very  hot.—  Mrs.  J.  R.  Singleton. 

SALMON  TIMBALES. 

Take  1  can  of  salmon  or  %  of  a  pound  of  cold  cooked  sal- 
mon free  from  skin  and  bones,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 


16  FISH 

butter,  2  tablespoonf uls  of  milk,  14  of  a  pound  of  fine  bread- 
crumbs, 3  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  pinch  of 
powdered  mace,  a  dust  of  red  pepper,  l/2  teasponful  of  salt 
and  1  cupful  of  white  sauce.  Break  up  the  fish  as  small  as 
possible,  put  it  in  a  basin,  and  work  it  to  a  cream,  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  adding  by  degrees  the  butter,  previously 
warmed,  and  the  cream.  Separate  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
from  the  whites,  stir  in  the  former,  and  heat  the  latter  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Season  the  mixture  nicely  with  the  salt,  red 
pepper,  mace,  and  lemon  juice;  mix  in  carefully  the  whites 
of  eggs.  Fill  some  small  buttered  molds  with  the  mixture, 
set  the  molds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  poach  them  in  the 
oven  for  about  thirty  minutes.  Turn  out  and  cover  with  a 
white  sauce.     Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

Fresh  trout  is  nice  either  broiled  and  fried  or  wrapped 
in  cloth  and  boiled ;  if  for  a  dinner,  turn  out  on  platter  and 
serve  with  egg  sauce — like  boiled  rockfish. 

FRIED    FISH. 

Trout,  blue-fish,  spots,  etc.,  are  good  dipped  in  meal  and 
fried  in  hot  fat  or  lard. 


SAUCES  FOR  FISH 


SAUCE  FOR   BOILED   FISH. 


Six  eggs,  hard  boiled  and  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter,  1  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, the  fish  eggs,  if  any,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  gravy. 
Boil  this  mixture  and  pour  over  the  fish  after  it  is  boiled  and 
laid  on  a  platter.  This  sauce  is  nice  on  any  kind  of  fish. — 
Mrs.  E.  E.  Thomas. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 

Two  teaspoons  each  of  butter  and  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  % 
cup  of  milk,  cayenne  to  taste.  Mix,  heat  and  pour  over  the 
ibeaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Put  in  double  broiler  and  cook  like 
custard.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 
and  2  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice.  To  be  served  with  boiled 
fish. 

MAITRE  d'hOTEL  BUTTER. 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter  worked  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
creamy,  season  with  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  with  broiled 
fish. 

HORSERADISH   SAUCE. 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1^  cups  milk 
or  fish  stock  or  both,  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  2  level 
tablespoons  grated  horseradish,  1  egg  yolk.  Blend  the  butter 
and  flour  in  a  saucepan  till  smooth,  add  the  liquid,  and  stir 
till  boiling.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  and 
cook  a  few  minutes.  Just  before  serving  add  the  horseradish 
and  egg  yolk.  If  grated  horseradish  cannot  be  obtained 
use  1  teaspoon  of  evaporated  horseradish,  which  has  been 
soaked  in  cold  water. 


OYSTERS 

To  prepare  oysters  for  cooking,  pour  a  cup  of  cold  water 
over  each  pint  of  oysters.  Drain  the  oysters  and  strain  the 
liquor,  setting  it  aside  for  use  in  soups,  scallops  or  in  creamed 
oysters. 

With  oyster  soups,  a  light  cracker  should  be  served.  With 
fried  oysters,  cabbage  salad  with  French  dressing  is  most 
appetizing.  Celery  makes  a  delicious  accompaniment  to 
oysters  no  matter  how  they  are  prepared,  although  generally 
it  is  served  with  the  soup. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Twenty-four  oysters,  1  quart  of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour.  Allow  4  oysters  to  each 
plate,  and  to  each  24  oysters  allow  one  quart  of  milk. 
Drain  the  oysters  and  pour  over  them  a  cup  of  cold 
water.  Drain  again,  strain  liquor  through  finest  sieve 
and  add  the  oysters.  Set  over  fire  and  boil  until 
oysters  are  plump  and  edges  are  curled.  Heat  milk,  cook 
butter  and  flour  together  and  add  hot  milk.  Cook  until 
smooth  and  creamy.  Add  oyster  liquor  and  season,  adding 
plenty  of  butter.  Add  oysters  and  serve  at  once.  If  de- 
sired, celery  salt  may  be  used  as  seasoning. 

OYSTERS   ROASTED   IN    SHELLS. 

Oysters,  salt  and  pepper,  butter,  cracker  dust.  Wash 
shells  clean  and  wipe  dry.  Place  in  a  pan  with  the 
round  part  of  the  shell  down.  Set  in  very  hot  oven  for 
three  minutes.  Take  from  oven  and  remove  upper  shell. 
Place  three  oysters  in  each  of  the  round  shells.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  small  bits  of  butter,  cover  with  cracker  dust, 
return  to  oven  and  brown.  This  is  a  delicious  and  easily 
prepared  dish  for  a  Sunday  night  supper. 


OYSTERS  19 

CREAMED  OYSTERS;  ENOUGH  FOR  FIFTY  PEOPLE. 

One-half  pound  of  butter,  1  pint  of  flour,  V/2  gallons  of 
oysters,  1  quart  of  rich  sweet  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  then 
add  the  flour,  stirring  well.  Then  add  the  milk  a  little  at  a 
time.  Put  the  oysters  on  in  a  pan  with  their  own  juice,  and 
let  them  cook  until  they  begin  to  puff,  and  then  drain  the 
juice  from  them  and  add  them  to  the  white  sauce  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Keep  hot  and  serve  in  timballs. — Mrs.  S.  P. 
Cooper. 

PANNED  OYSTERS. 

Pick  over  the  opened  oysters  to  remove  bits  of  shell.  Wash 
quickly  in  cold  water  and  drain  on  sieve.  Put  into  sauce- 
pan with  1  tablespoon  butter  for  25  oysters  and  a  dash  of  salt 
and  pepper.  Cover  and  shake  over  a  hot  fire  until  edges 
rufile  and  oysters  are  plump.     May  be  served  on  toast. 

STEWED    OYSTERS. 

Pick  over  and  wash  1  quart  oysters.  Scald  1  pint  milk. 
Strain,  boil  and  skim  oyster  liquor;  when  clear  add  oysters. 
Cook  till  oysters  are  plump  and  well  ruffled;  take  from  fire, 
add  hot  milk,  salt  and  pepper. 

If  desired  thicker,  rub  together  1  tablespoon  each  of  butter 
and  flour;  add  to  milk  and  stir  until  smooth.  This  may  be 
varied  iby  addition  of  a  little  chopped  celery  or  onion. 

LITTLE   PIGS    IN    BLANKETS. 

Season  large  oysters  and  cut  very  thin  slices  of  bacon,  about 
2  or  3  inches;  wrap  the  oysters  in  bacon  and  fasten  with 
small  wooden  toothpicks  and  cook  a  nice  brown.  Serve  with 
picks  in  them. — Mrs.  D.  Y.  Cooper. 

SCALLOPED    OYSTERS. 

Pick,  wash  and  drain  1  solid  quart  oysters.  Put  in  layers 
in  baking-dish,  alternating  with  dry  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 


20  OYSTERS 

and  seasoning.  When  dish  is  filled  add  strained  oyster 
liquor  and  sufficient  milk  to  moisten.  Cover  with  crumbs, 
add  1  tablespoon  butter  in  bits  and  bake  %  hour  in  hot  oven. 

FRIED   OYSTERS. 

Select  largest  and  finest  oysters.  Drain  and  wipe  them 
by  spreading  upon  cloth,  laying  another  over  them,  pressing 
lightly.  Roll  each  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs 
with  which  has  been  mixed  a  very  little  pepper.  Fry  in 
mixture  of  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter. 

OYSTER    PIE. 

One  quart  oysters,  drained ;  pepper,  salt  and  butter  to  taste. 
1  quart  flour,  2  tablespoons  lard,  1  tablespoon  salt ;  mix  with 
water  for  pie  crust.  Butter  plate ;  fill  with  oysters,  seasoned. 
Put  over  a  crust  and  bake. 

OYSTERS    ON    TOAST. 

Toast  and  butter  the  bread.  Wipe  sufficient  oysters  to 
cover  the  bread,  lay  them  on  the  slices,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Put  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  the 
edges  of  the  oysters  curl.  Have  prepared  a  rich  cream 
sauce,  which  pour  over  the  oysters  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  0. 
Fountain. 

OYSTERS  CREAMED  IN  PEPPERS. 

Heat  a  quart  of  oysters  to  boiling  point.  Drain  and  make 
sauce  with  oyster  liquor,  cream,  flour,  butter,  salt  and  pepper ; 
add  oysters ;  cut  around  stems  of  red  or  green  peppers  (bell 
peppers)  ;  remove  steins  and  seeds.  Turn  oysters  into  these 
cases;  sprinkle  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs  and  brown  in 
oven. 


MEATS 

FOUND  IN  AN  OLD  COOK  BOOK. 

These  couplets  were  found  in  the  front  of  an  old  hand- 
written cook-book.  They  are  interesting  and  true  enough  to 
be  preserved : 

Always  have  lobster  sauce  with  salmon, 
And  put  mint  sauce  your  roasted  lamb  on. 

Veal  cutlets  dip  in  egg  and  bread-crumb ; 
Fry  till  you  see  a  brownish  red  come. 

Grate  Gruyere  cheese  on  macaroni, 
Make  the  top  crisp  but  not  too  bony. 

In  dressing  salad,  mind  this  law : 

With  two  hard  yolks  use  one  that's  raw. 

Roast  veal  with  rich  stock  gravy  serve, 
And  pickled  mushrooms,  too,  observe. 

Roast  pork  sans  apple  sauce,  past  doubt, 
Is  "Hamlet"  with  the  "Prince"  left  out! 

Your  mutton  chops  with  paper  cover, 
And  make  them  amber  brown  all  over. 

Broil  lightly  your  beefsteak — to  fry  it 
Argues  contempt  of  Christian  diet. 

Buy  stall-fed  pigeons.     When  you've  got  them, 
The  way  to  cook  them  is  to  pot  them. 

Wood-grouse  are  dry  when  gumps  have 

marred  them. 
Before  you  roast  them  always  lard  them. 

To  roast  spring  chickens  is  to  spoil  them ; 
Just  split  them  down  the  back  and  broil  them. 

It  gives  true  epicures  the  vapors 
To  see  boiled  mutton  without  capers. 

Boiled  turkey,  gourmands  know,  of  course, 
Is  exquisite  with  celery  sauce. 

The  cook  deserves  a  hearty  cuffing 

Who  serves  roast  fowls  with  tasteless  stuffing. 

Egg  sauce :  few  make  it  right,  alas ! 
Is  good  with  bluefish  or  white  bass. 

Shad,  stuffed  and  baked,  is  most  delicious, 
'Twould  have  electrified  Aspicious. 


22  MEATS 


TO    SELECT    BEEF. 

Nice  beef  may  be  known  by  its  color.  The  fat  will  be  of 
oily  smoothness  and  white,  rather  than  yellow.  The  lean 
will  be  an  open  grain  and  bright  red.  Yellow  fat  is  a  sure 
sign  of  an  inferior  quality  of  meats. 

RIB    EOAST    BEEF. 

Have  oven  and  baking  pan  well  heated  when  the  beef  is 
first  put  in;  this  causes  the  outside  to  brown  quickly  and 
thus  retain  the  juices.  Take  a  rib  piece  or  loin  roast  of  7 
or  8  pounds,  wipe  carefully  with  a  clean  towel,  put  in  oven, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  baste  frequently  with  its 
own  fat  or  butter.  This  roast  requires  2  hours  to  cook.  An 
hour  before  taking  up  peel  a  few  Irish  potatoes  and  cut  and 
put  around  roast,  turning  over  to  brown  when  basting. 

BROILED  STEAK. 

Select  thick,  fat  steak,  trim  edges  and  remove  bone,  if 
large.  Skewer  into  shape,  have  broiler  very  hot  and  sear  the 
surface  of  the  meat  quickly.  Finish  broiling  more  slowly, 
allowing  eight  to  ten  minutes  for  steak  an  inch  thick.  Place 
on  warm  platter,  pour  over  part  of  fat,  season,  garnish  and 
serve.  A  mushroom  sauce  may  be  served  with  the  steak,  or 
the  sauce  Beamaise.  Fried  or  baked  beans  are  also  a  suit- 
able accompaniment  to  steak. 

HAMBURG    STEAK. 

Chop  finely  1  pound  lean  raw  beef ;  season  highly  with  salt, 
pepper,  a  little  sage  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Make 
into  small  cakes;  flour  and  fry. 

BEEF    LOAF. 

Three  pounds  lean  beef,  ground  fine,  4  eggs,  1  pint  bread 
crumbs,  1  pint  sweet  milk,  a  small  onion,  1  tablespoon  salt, 
1  of  black  pepper,  pinch  of  red  pepper,  butter  size  of  an 


MEATS  23 

egg  (melted).  Mix  all  these  well  made  into  loaf,  put  in  pan 
and  fill  the  pan  about  half -full  of  water;  bake. — Mrs.  B.  B. 
Powell. 

PICKLE  FOR  BEEF. 

Four  gallons  of  water  to  4  quarts  of  salt,  2  pounds  of  sugar, 
2  ounces  of  saltpetre,  boil  and  skim;  let  it  stand  all  night, 
then  put  the  beef  in.  The  beef  should  tbe  salted  5  or  6  days, 
then  washed  and  wiped  dry  before  putting  it  into  the  brine. — ■ 
Mrs.  Zollicojfer. 

SPICED   BEEF. 

.  For  12  pounds  of  beef  take  a  large  teaspoon  of  mace  and 
pepper,  twice  as  much  cloves,  1  nutmeg  and  ^  of  a  teaspoon 
of  cayenne  pepper ;  mix  well  with  %  pound  of  ibrown  sugar. 
Rub  the  beef  with  this  and  let  it  stand  3  days,  then  add  ^2 
pound  of  salt,  then  turn  it  once  each  day  for  12  days.  Boil 
in  not  too  much  water. — Mrs.  Sam  Watkins. 

MEAT   PUFFS. 

Roll  a  sheet  of  good  paste  and  cut  into  circular  shapes 
by  pressing  a  saucer  upon  it  and  passing  a  sharp  kuife  around 
saucer ;  lay  upon  the  half  of  each  circle  of  paste  a  tablespoon 
of  any  kind  of  minced  meat  seasoned  to  taste;  moisten  with 
wine  or  catsup ;  fold  over  the  other  half,  crimp  the  edges 
and  bake  or  fry.     Serve  hot  or  cold. — Dixie. 

CREAMED   DRIED   BEEF. 

Over  sliced  dried  beef  pour  boiling  water  and  let  stand 
5  minutes.  Make  a  cream  sauce.  Add  the  beef  to  it  and 
when  thoroughly  hot  turn  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. — Mrs. 
Andrew  J.  Davis. 

FRIED     STEAK. 

Remove  every  particle  of  skin  and  gristle.  This  will 
usually  divide  the  steak  into  small  pieces  about  the  right  size 
to  serve.     "Wash  steak,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll 


24  MEATS 

each  piece  in  flour.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  searing  well  on  each 
side.  Cook  slowly  then  until  well  done,  keeping  pan  covered 
all  the  time.  Before  removing  from  stove  add  hot  water 
and  steam  for  awhile.  Make  gravy  by  adding  tablespoon 
each  flour  and  butter  to  the  grease  in  the  pan,  letting  it  cook 
until  as  thick  as  wanted. 

HASH  OF  VEAL,   OE  BEEF. 

Grind  cold  beef  in  meat  grinder.  Add  half  of  its  bulk  in 
potatoes  cut  fine,  a  little  water,  ibutter  gravy,  salt  and  pep- 
per and  cook  until  done.  Serve  hot  for  breakfast.  If  onion 
is  liked  add  some. 

A  GOOD  WAY  TO  FEY  VEAL. 

Beat  an  egg  and  dip  veal  in  it,  then  in  cracker  dust.  Fry 
in  hot  butter  and  lard,  season  to  taste. 

MOCK   DUCK. 

Make  highly  seasoned  dressing  as  for  turkey.  Add  little 
onion  minced  fine.  Spread  on  round  steak ;  roll ;  tie  to  keep 
in  shape.  Add  little  water  to  pan  and  bake  slowly;  baste 
often. 

FOECE-MEAT    INGEEDIENTS. 

Cold  fowl,  veal  or  mutton  fat,  bacon  or  the  fat  of  ham, 
beef  suet,  veal  suet,  butter,  marrow,  crumbs  of  bread,  yolk 
and  white  of  eggs  to  bind  the  mixture.  Flavor  with  any- 
thing preferred. 

TO    SELECT    VEAL. 

When  the  kidney  is  well  surrounded  with  fat,  you  may 
be  sure  the  meat  is  of  a  good  quality.  Always  choose  that 
which  is  whitest  and  fattest.  If  vein  in  shoulder,  which  is 
very  perceptible,  is  a  bright  red  or  blue,  it  is  a  sure  sign  that 
the  meat  is  fresh. 

CEEAMED    VEAL. 

Boil  tender  veal  until  done;  chop  fine;  season  with  salt 


MEATS  25 

and  pepper.  Make  cream  sauce — 1%  tablespoons  butter 
(melted),  2  per  cent,  flour  added  until  hot,  then  sweet  milk 
stirred  in  until  it  makes  a  thick  sauce;  season  and  add  the 
veal.  Serve  hot  in  pannikins  or  on  toast. — Mrs.  D.  Y. 
Cooper. 

VEAL    LOAF. 

Chop  3^/2  pounds  of  raw  veal,  ^4  pound  chicken  or  ham; 
add  6  powdered  crackers,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  pep- 
per, 3  beaten  eggs,  3  tablespoons  cream  or  tomato  sauce,  juice 
of  a  lemon  and  a  few  grains  of  mace ;  shape  in  a  loaf.  Bake 
for  2  hours,  basting  often.  Serve  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  W.  B. 
Waddill. 

VEAL    BIRDS. 

Take  the  round  steak  of  veal,  cut  thin  and  pound  with  a 
meat  pounder.  Cut  into  3-inch  squares.  Make  a  mixture 
of  cracker  crumbs  and  chopped  salt  pork ;  put  in  an  egg,  salt 
and  pepper  and  a  little  onion.  Spread  on  the  veal,  roll  and 
fasten  with  wooden  toothpicks.  Roll  in  flour  and  brown  in 
butter,  then  cover  with  milk  and  let  simmer  for  1  hour. 
Serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  N.  P.  Strause. 

VEAL    OR   BEEF    PIE. 

Either  use  fresh  meat  boiled  and  cut  up  or  left-over  pieces 
from  roasts.  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  pan  lined 
with  rich  puff  paste.  Cut  pastry  in  strips  and  flour  and  lay 
in  alternate  layers  with  the  meat.  Dot  over  with  butter  in 
layer  of  meat  and  when  all  is  used  pour  over  either  the  water 
the  meat  has  been  cooked  in,  seasoned  highly  with  some  of  the 
gravy  left  from  the  roast;  cover  with  the  top  pastry  and 
bake  slowly. 

BEEF    OR    CALF'S    LIVER. 

Calf's  liver  is  much  nicer.  Have  sliced  about  1  inch  thick ; 
pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  remove  skin.  Fry  several 
slices  of  bacon  in  frying  pan.  Dip  liver  in  flour,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  spoon  of  lard  into  frying  pan.     When 


26  MEATS 

very  hot  put  in  liver,  fry  a  nice  brown  and  take  out.  Serve 
with  bacon  and  gravy  from  the  pan  or  pour  off  part  of  the 
grease ;  dissolve  1  teaspoon  of  flour  into  cup  of  milk  and  pour 
in  frying  pan ;  stir  to  keep  from  burning ;  when  thick,  season, 
take  up  and  pour  over  the  hot  liver. 

PILLAU. 

Any  cold  meat  can  be  run  through  meat  grinder,  season 
with  butter,  pepper,  salt;  place  in  pan  and  add  some  of 
the  gravy — if  none  add  little  water  and  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Mash  potatoes  to  make  2  cupfuls;  season  with  beaten  egg, 
butter,  milk,  salt  and  pepper;  beat  smooth  and  cover  the  cold 
meat  and  bake  until  bright  brown.     Serve  hot. 

CREAMED  SWEETBREADS. 

Remove  pipes  and  membranes,  then  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water,  with  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  for  20  minutes ; 
then  plunge  in  cold  water  to  harden.  Cut  the  sweetbreads 
into  small  pieces  and  mix  with  the  following  sauce :  Heat 
1  pint  milk,  beat  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  a  little  cold  milk, 
strain  them  into  the  warm  milk  and  cook  over  hot  water 
until  the  eggs,  thicken  the  sauce.  Add  one  tablespoon  butter 
and  one  of  moistened  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  all 
the  time  and  when  smooth  and  thick,  pour  over  sweetbreads. 
Put  in  baking  dish,  shells  or  paper  cases.  Cover  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  brown. 

FRIED    FROG    LEGS. 

Wash  and  dress  the  hind  legs  of  frogs  (the  only  part  of 
the  frog  eaten)  in  the  following  manner:  As  the  legs  lie  on 
the  table  with  the  feet  towards  you,  cut  a  gash  in  the  left  leg 
half  way  between  the  foot  and  the  joint,  draw  the  other  foot 
through  this  incision,  then  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  dredge  them  in  flour,  and  fry. 


MEATS  27 

SCALLOPED    MUTTON. 

Cut  cold  cooked  mutton  into  small  pieces.  Put  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  a  shallow  dish,  then  a  layer 
of  mutton,  then  gravy.  Moisten  ibread  crumbs  in  melted  but- 
ter and  spread  over  the  top.  Bake  until  the  crumbs  are 
brown. 

STUFFED    LEG    OF    LAMB. 

Prepare  a  dressing  by  moistening  2  cups  of  bread  crumbs 
(from  inside  of  the  loaf)  with  3/2  cup  of  melted  butter.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  thyme  or  sweet  marjoram,  and  a 
little  onion,  if  desired.  Add  a  very  little  water  and  place  in 
the  meat,  skewering  the  ends  into  shape.  Have  oven  very  hot 
and  place  meat  in  pan,  adding  neither  water  nor  seasoning 
until  the  surface  is  seared  over.  Then  reduce  the  gas  flame, 
dredge  meat  lightly  with  flour  and  the  seasonings.  Baste 
the  meat  every  10  or  15  minutes  (unless  a  covered  roasting 
pan  is  used),  and  roast  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  if  weighing 
5  pounds.  Serve  with  a  brown  sauce  made  from  4  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  the  drippings  in  the  pan,  with  a  pint  of 
stock  made  by  cooking  the  bones  in  water  very  slowly  until 
it  is  well  flavored.  Season  well,  add  kitchen  bouquet  to  color 
and  flavor,  and  strain  before,  serving.  Meat  cooked  in  this 
fashion  is  more  like  the  roasts  prepared  over  an  open  fire, 
and  no  such  flavor  or  juiciness  can  be  obtained  by  baking  in 
a  wood  or  coal  oven. 

LAMB  CHOPS. 

They  should  be  cut  from  a  loin  or  neck ;  if  from  the  neck, 
the  bone  should  be  long.  They  should  be  broiled  over  a  hot 
fire,  seasoned  when  half  done  and  often  turned;  take  them 
up  into  a  very  hot  dish,  rub  a  bit  of  butter  on  each,  and  serve 
hot  the  moment  they  are  done. 

BARBECUE   SAUCE. 

To  2  cupfuls  of  stock  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  table- 
spoon browned  flour,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  14  teaspoon  salt, 


28  MEATS 

small  amount  cayenne  and  black  pepper.     Let  the  cooked 
meat  simmer  in  this  awhile  or  baste  frequently  with  it. 

TO    SELECT   PORK. 

In  fresh  pork  the  flesh  is  firm,  smooth,  a  clear  color,  and 
the  fat  set.  Dairy-fed  pork  bears  the  palm  over  all  others. 
In  young  pork,  the  lean,  when  pinched,  will  break.  Excel- 
lent bacon  may  be  known  by  the  lean  being  tender  and  of  a 
bright  color,  the  fat  firm  and  white. 

HAM. 

When  selecting  a  ham  do  not  choose  a  very  lean  one.  Stick 
a  long  knife  in  several  places  and  from  the  odor  you  can 
tell  whether  sweet  or  rancied.  If  a  ham,  when  cooked,  has 
white  or  dark  yellow  spots  through  it,  you  better  beware  of 
eating  it.     The  animal  was  not  healthy. 

ROAST    FRESH    HAM. 

Boil  a  small  pig  ham  until  nearly  done,  skin  and  cover 
with  bread  crumbs,  salt,  little  cayenne  pepper;  place  in  a 
dripping  pan  and  bake  until  perfectly  done. 

SAUSAGE. 

Run  through  meat  chopper  1  pound  pork,  mostly  lean, 
though  there  should  be  some  fat.  Season  with  1  teaspoon 
each  salt  and  ground  sage  and  *4  teaspoon  pepper.  Make 
into  cakes,  put  into  frying  pan  which  has  been  heated  very 
hot  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  well  done,  turning  so  as  to 
brown  both  sides. 

PIGS'"    FEET. 

Scrape  and  clean  very  carefully,  soak  in  strong  brine  for 
24  hours,  wash  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  put  in  pot  of 
cold  water,  boil  slowly  and  when  done  leave  in  water  to 
cool.  Split  and  dip  in  egg  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
fry  for  breakfast. 

Some  like  batter,  others  season  with  vinegar  when  done. 


MEATS  29 


HAM  PATTIES. 

Grind  ham,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  with 
milk.  Fill  muffin  rings  or  ramekins  half  full,  break  an  egg 
in  each  one,  and  bake  in  oven. — Mrs.  C.  V.  Singleton. 

DEVILED  HAM. 

Two  pounds  ham  chopped  to  a  paste,  1  cup  vinegar,  1 
teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  saltspoon  cayenne  pep- 
per. Mix  mustard,  sugar  and  pepper  together,  then  add 
slowly  the  vinegar.  Pour  over  ham.  If  not  moist  enough 
add  more  vinegar. 

ENGLISH    PORE:    PIE. 

Fourteen  pounds  choice  pork  cut  very  fine,  4  ounces  salt, 
2  ounces  black  pepper;  mix  thoroughly  by  adding  a  cup  of 
flour  and  pint  of  water. 

Pastry  for  same:  7  pounds  sifted  flour  made  up  with  two 
pounds  lard  boiled  with  cup  of  water,  a  little  salt;  divide 
this  into  seven  pieces  and  mould  each  piece  around  a  gallon 
jar  to  the  height  of  5  inches;  fill  with  the  seasoned  meat, 
putting  top  crust  on  and  bake  2  hours  each. — Mrs.  P.  T. 
Jones. 

PUDDING  MADE  OF  PORK  MEAT. 

Three  heads,  all  of  the  lights,  sweetbreads,  kidneys  and 
any  fat  pieces  rejected  from  the  sausage  meat,  1  liver  cooked 
by  itself.  Boil  meats  until  it  leaves  the  bone.  When  cool 
carefully  remove  meat  from  bones  and  run  liver  and  meat 
through  meat  chopper.  Mix  it  well  and  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  red  pepper  and  teaspoon  coriander  seed,  pulvarized. 
Use  sage  if  desired.  Pack  into  large  bowl,  cut  what  quantity 
you  desire  to  use,  put  into  pan  and  warm  it  inside  of  stove. — 
Mrs.  Geo.  Harris. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Scrape  and  clean  well  a  pig's  head.  Put  on  and  boil  well 
for  4  or  5  hours,  until  bones  will  slip  easily  from  meat.    Take 


30  MEATS 

out  bones  and  chop  meat ;  mix  with  corn  meal  and  scald  with 
the  liquor.  Season  with  salt,  red  pepper  and  little  sage  and 
pack  in  pans ;  cut  and  fry. — Dixie. 

CREAMED   BRAINS. 

Cook  two  sets  of  brains  in  cold,  salted  water  until  tender, 
then  plunge  into  cold  water  to  harden ;  cut  into  small  pieces 
and  mix  with  cream  sauce.  Place  in  ramekins,  sprinkle 
with  cracker  crumbs,  brown  in  oven  and  serve  hot. — Mrs. 
Andrew  Davis. 

PIG    BRAINS. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  skin  them.  Put  them 
in  a  pan  with  a  little  water  and  a  spoon  of  lard.  When 
the  water  has  nearly  boiled  out  break  into  it  5  or  6  eggs,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  to  a  light  brown. — Mrs. 
D.  H.  Mangum. 

BOILED    OLD    HAM. 

Select  a  well-cured  old  ham,  weighing  about  8  pounds ;  soak 
all  night  in  water.  Put  it  into  the  iboiler  with  enough  water 
to  cover  well  and  add  %  cup  of  molasses  and  y%  cup  of 
brown  sugar.  Cover  well  and  cook  slowly  about  4  hours. 
Let  it  get  cold  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  soaked.  Peel  off 
the  skin  and  sift  over  the  top  cracker  crumbs  and  black  pep- 
per and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  1  hour,  basting  frequently 
with  the  juice  that  runs  out. 

HAM  PATTIES. 

One  cup  of  finely  chopped  cooked  ham,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
■/4  CUP  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  *4  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  14  CI1P  °f  milk.  Mix  the  meat  with  the 
bread  crumbs  and  seasoning ;  add  the  butter  melted.  Moisten 
with  the  milk  and  half-fill  greased  muffin  pans  with  the  mix- 
ture. Break  1  egg  carefully  on  the  top  of  each,  sprinkle  with 
a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  fine  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs.  Bake  8  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  at  once. — 
Mrs.  C.  0.  Fountain. 


SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS   FOR  MEATS 

MINT    SAUCE. 

One  cup  chopped  green  mint  leaves,  !/2  CUP  vinegar,  ^  cup 
powdered  sugar.     Mix  1  hour  before  serving. 

CURRANT   JELLY  SAUCE. 

Melt  y%  glass  currant  jelly  over  slow  fire.  Add  1  cup  hot 
brown  sauce;  stir  well  and  simmer  1  minute. 

TOMATO   SAUCE. 

Simmer  %  can  tomatoes,  1  chopped  onion,  ^2  teaspoon 
salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  1  clove  together  10  minutes.  Rub 
through  sieve.  Cook  together  1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and 
butter  1  minute,  add  tomato  gradually,  stir  till  smooth,  and 
simmer  5  minutes. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

One  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Mix 
butter  and  flour  together ;  then  add  milk  gradually.  Put  in 
double  boiler  and  thicken.  Stir  constantly. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Pat- 
terson. 

CUKRY  SAUCE. 

A  curry  sauce  is  fine  for  disguising  left-over  meats,  rice, 
etc.  Make  the  sauce  with  one  medium  sized  onion  sliced 
and  fried  in  two  ounces  of  butter,  to  which  is  added  a  dessert 
spoonful  of  curry  powder.  Let  it  cook  for  two  or  three 
minutes  and  add  a  cupful  of  gravy,  a  bay  leaf,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  and  a  taiblespoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar.  Cook  gently 
for  half  an  hour  and  strain. 

APPLE    SAUCE. 

Cut  out  the  stem  and  a  little  fruit  around  it,  like  a  cork, 
from  as  many  apples  as  there  will  be  persons  to  serve.  Re- 
move the  core,  and  scoop  out  the  inside,  leaving  a  bright  red 
shell,  in  which  to  put  apple  sauce.     Replace  the  top  and  chill 


32       SAUCES  AND  DRESSINGS  FOR  MEATS 

the  fruit  before  serving  with  a  course  of  roast  pork  or  duck. 
Glossy  red  apples  add  to  the  effect  of  this  dish  upon  the  eye. 

GREEN  PICKLE  GELATINE. 

To  be  used  as  a  relish  with  cold  meats :  4  green  peppers 
(sweet),  1  small  cabbage,  3  stalks  celery,  2  cups  vinegar,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1  box  gelatine. 
Chop  all  fine  in  meat  chopper,  dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water, 
add  vinegar  heated ;  mix  all  ingredients  and  set  to  cool. — 
Mrs.  W.  B.  Parham. 

FROZEN    CRANBERRIES. 

Boil  two  quarts  of  cranberries  until  soft,  strain  through 
a  jelly  bag;  add  one  pint  of  sugar  to  the  liquid  and  partly 
freeze;  then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  and 
freeze. 

MUSHROOM   SATTCE. 

One  tablespoon  each  butter  and  flour,  y2  cup  of  cream,  l/o 
can  of  mushrooms,  %  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Cut  the  mushrooms  in  halves  with  a  silver 
knife.  Do  not  put  them  in  until  sauce  begins  to  thicken,  as 
they  should  be  cooked  only  long  enough  to  be  heated  through. 
The  sauce  should  be  served  at  once. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Cook  %  can  of  tomatoes  fifteen  minutes.  Put  through  a 
coarse  strainer  and  add  three  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and 
flour  which  have  been  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste.  Cook  until 
thick.  Season  with  salt  and  peppers.  A  slice  of  onion,  a 
little  chopped  celery,  a  bay  leaf  or  any  desired  flavoring  may 
be  added  and  cooked  with  the  tomato. 

TAR  TARE  SAUCE. 

One  cupful  mayonnaise  dressing,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
chopped  parsley,  pickles  and  capers,  i/o  teaspoon  onion  juice. 
Mix  just  before  using. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME 


BAKED   TURKEY. 


Three  days  after  the  turkey  has  been  hung  wipe  it  on  the 
outside  with  a  damp  cloth  and  carefully  wipe  out  the  inside. 
Truss  it  in  shape  and  put  it  in  a  baking  pan.  Add  2  tea- 
spoons of  salt  to  Y2  a  pint  of  water  or  stock,  and  turn  this 
into  the  pan.  Rub  the  breast  of  the  turkey  with  butter  and 
put  in  a  very  hot  oven  where  it  will  brown  quickly.  When 
it  is  thoroughly  browned  cool  the  oven  a  little  and  roast  slowly 
for  15  minutes  to  each  pound  of  turkey,  basting  every  20 
minutes.  If  the  water  or  stock  in  the  pan  evaporates  tilt 
the  turkey.  You  will  find  the  body  of  the  turkey  containing 
a  large  quantity  of  melted  fat,  which  can  be  used  for  basting. 
If  desired  stuffing  can  be  added  to  the  turkey  when  about 
half -cooked,  but  a  little  longer  time  will  be  required  for  cook- 
ing the  turkey. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Waddill. 


CHICKEN"    FRICASSEE. 

Clean  and  disjoint  chicken.  Wipe  each  piece.  Put  in 
pot,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  till  tender.  To 
the  liquor  add  1  cup  or  more  hot  milk,  and  thicken  with 
flour  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Season  well,  boil  up  for  a 
few  minutes.     Serve  with  dumplings. 

FRIED    CHICKEN. 

One  chicken,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  flour,  a  little  cold 
water,  y2  cup  lard  and  butter  mixed.  Clean  the  chicken, 
remove  pinfeathers  and  oil-bag,  and  cut  into  convenient 
pieces  for  serving.  Dip  each  joint  into  the  water  and 
then  into  the  flour,  salt  and  pepper  sifted  together, 
shaking  off  all  that  does  not  cling  to  the  chicken.  Heat  the 
butter  and  lard  in  a  frying  pan  and  cook  the  pieces  of  chicken 
slowly  that  they  may  be  done  through,  turning  often  while 
cooking.  Keep  hot  till  all  are  done,  and  serve  with  white 
sauce  or  brown  gravy. 
—3 


34  POULTRY  AND  GAME 

CREAMED  CHICKEN, 

Two  cups  chicken  meat  cut  into  small  pieces.  1  cup  milk 
or  cream,  1  cup  chicken  stock,  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  the  butter  and 
flour  together  in  chafing-dish,  to  which  add  stock  and  milk, 
then  stir  until  smooth.  Put  in  chicken  and  cook  3  minutes 
longer.     Season  to  taste. 

DELICIOUS  FRICASSEE  OF   CHICKEN.  / 

Cut  the  chicken  into  joints  and  put  into  stewpan,  with  2 
raw  onions  cut  in  quarters,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  a  little  squeeze  of  lemon  juice.  Add 
a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  pint  of  water.  Stew 
for  an  hour  under  a  closed  lid.  Strain  off  the  gravy,  into 
which  beat  gradually  a  teacup  of  cream,  or  rich  milk,  and 
then  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Place  gravy  on  fire,  but  do  not  allow 
it  to  boil.  When  it  has  thickened,  pour  it  over  the  chicken. 
Even  an  old  chicken  is  delicious  when  prepared  as  above. 

DEVILED    CHICKEN. 

Two  cups  of  finely-chopped  chicken,  2  tablespoons  of 
chopped  parsley,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of 
bread  crumbs,  3  drops  of  onion  extract,  ^  cup  of  cream,  2 
hard  boiled  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  the  bread  crumbs,  chicken  and  cream ;  stir  until  the  mix- 
ture is  heated.  Add  the  eggs,  the  yolks,  and  whites,  pressed 
through  a  sieve,  the  parsley  and  seasoning.  Mix  well;  take 
from  the  fire,  put  in  shells  or  individual  souffle  dishes,  cover 
with  greased  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Curry 
powder,  paprica,  and  other  seasonings  may  be  added  at  will. 
— Mrs.  J.  T.  Alderman. 

JELLIED     CHICKEN. 

Two  medium-sized  chickens  cooked  thoroughly.  Pick 
from  the  bones  and  run  through  grinder.  Dissolve  1  box  of 
gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water.     To  this  add  the  liquor 


POULTRY  AND  GAME  35 

(about  1  quart)  in  which  chicken  was  boiled,  and  which  has 
been  cooled  and  skimmed.  Pour  into  a  long  pan  %  inch 
of  the  liquor,  allow  it  to  congeal,  then  add  a  layer  of  chicken 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Next  put  a  layer  of  hard 
boiled  eggs  chopped  fine.  Pour  over  this  enough  liquor  to 
cover.  Let  harden,  then  add  another  layer  of  chicken  and 
the  eggs,  with  a  layer  of  the  gelatine  on  top.  When  hard 
turn  out,  cut  in  squares,  serve  with  mayonnaise  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

SMOTHERED    CHICKEN. 

Split  chicken  down  the  back  as  for  broiling,  put  in  pan  in 
1  pint  boiling  water,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  flour,  and  dot 
with  bits  of  butter,  cover  closely  with  another  pan  and  steam 
1  hour  in  moderate  oven.  If  chicken  is  tough  more  time  is 
necessary.     You  want  it  light  brown. 

CHICKEN    OR    TURKEY    HASH. 

Free  chicken  from  bone,  cut  in  pieces,  pour  over  water  to 
nearly  cover,  cook  slowly,  break  carcass  and  with  other  bones 
cook  in  another  vessel.  When  done  strain  and  thicken  with 
little  flour  and  butter  or  some  stuffing  from  the  fowl  and 
add  to  the  hash.  Boil  up  ten  minutes  and  add  1  or  2  hard 
boiled  eggs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  on  slices 
of  toasted  bread. 

CHICKEN  STEW. 

Disjoint  the  chicken,  cover  with  cold  water  with  teaspoon 
salt  and  cook  until  tender.  Make  pastry  of  1  cup  flour,  ^4 
teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  lard,  enough  water  to  make  stiff 
dongh.  Poll  very  thin,  cut  into  small  strips,  sprinkle  with 
flour  and  add  to  chicken.  Cook  all  together  for  ^  hour  or 
longer.  This  is  improved  by  adding  y2  cup  sweet  milk  when 
nearly  done. 

CHICKEN    PAN    PIE. 

Cook  the  chicken  as  for  stew,  but  instead  of  adding  pastry 
to  it,  fill  a  baking  pan  with  pastry,  placing  chicken  and  gravy 


36  POULTRY  AND  GAME 

with  a  little  pastry  inside.  Add  small  lumps  of  butter  and 
cover  with  solid  piece  of  pastry,  prick  with  fork  and  cook 
in  oven  until  browned  nicely.  This  requires  twice  the 
amount  of  pastry  given  for  chicken  stew. 

MARBLED    CHICKEN". 

Soak  a  small  tongue  over  night.  Next  day  boil  gently 
until  very  tender.  Remove  the  skin  and  cut  in  1/2  inch  dice. 
Boil  a  fowl  separately  until  the  meat  is  almost  ready  to  drop 
from  the  bones.  Free  it  from  fat  and  skin  and  when  cold 
chop  fine.  Hard  boil  three  or  four  eggs  and  cut  them  in 
thin  slices.  Season  the  meats  well  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Cut  fine  sufficient  parsley  to  make  two  tablespoons.  To  a 
pint  of  the  hot  stock  from  the  fowl  add  1-3  of  a  package  of 
granulated  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  1-3  of  a  cup  of 
cold  water.  Stir  until  dissolved,  season  well  and  strain  through 
cheesecloth.  Pour  a  thin  layer  of  the  liquid  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  melted  mould  and  set  away  until  firm.  Pill  the 
mould  with  alternate  layers  of  the  chicken,  tongue  and  eggs, 
sprinkling  each  with  the  parsley.  Pour  over  this  enough  of 
the  gelatine  mixture  to  just  moisten.  Bind  all  together  and 
set  away  until  cold  and  firm.      Slice  for  lunch  or  dinner. 

QUAIL    ON    TOAST. 

Take  8  quails,  slit  down  the  back,  crack  the  main  bones, 
flatten  slightly,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Baste  with 
butter  and  broil  over  hot  coals ;  dish  up  on  8  pieces  of  dry 
toast;  surround  with  celery  leaves  and  quartered  lemons. 
Pour  over  melted  maitre  d'hotel  sauce  and  serve. 

ROASTED  DUCK. 

Stuff  them  with  sage  and  onion  in  the  bread  crumbs,  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.     They  should  be  well  done. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME  37 

BROILED     PIGEONS. 

After  cleaning  split  down  the  back  and  put  in  cold  place 
for  some  hours.  When  ready  to  cook  place  in  pan  with  skin 
down,  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  small  pieces  of  but- 
ter. Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  when  brown  turn  over  and  rub 
butter,  dash  of  pepper  and  salt  and  brown.  Then  put  cover 
on  and  cook  until  done.  Serve  on  toast  and  pour  over  them 
the  drippings  from  pan. 

RABBIT. 

Skin  the  rabbit  and  let  it  be  extremely  well  washed ;  soak 
it  for  two  hours  in  water.  If  old,  lard  it.  Give  it  a  relish- 
ing stuffing  and  sew  it  up.  Baste  it  well  while  cooking  with 
butter.  If  the  blood  has  settled  in  the  neck  prick  it  and 
stick  the  part  in  warm  water,  which  will  remove  it.  Serve 
with  rich  gravy,  melted  butter  and  currant  or  some  acid 
jelly. 


DRESSINGS  AND  GRAVIES  FOR  POULTRY 
AND  GAME 

CRANBERRY    SAUCE. 

Wash  1  quart  cranberries,  add  a  cup  and  a  half  of  cold 
water  and  cook  slowly  until  the  skins  burst.  Strain  through 
a  colander  and  return  to  the  fire.  When  boiling  again  add  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  simmer  slowly  until  thick,  stirring  fre- 
quently. The  longer  they  cook  after  the  sugar  is  added  the 
richer  will  be  their  color.  Pour  out  into  molds  and  serve 
cold. 

OYSTEK    DRESSING    FOR    TURKEY. 

Stew  1  pint  of  oysters  in  their  own  liquor;  when  tender 
strain  off  the  liquor,  chop  oysters  into  bite  and  add  %  cup 
of  butter  and  a  bit  of  onion  and  let  simmer  together.  Then 
moisten  the  bread  crumbs  with  the  oyster  liquor  and  mix  in 
the  oysters,  butter,  etc. — Miss  Sarah  Edwards. 

EGG    SAUCE. 

This  is  made  like  drawn  butter,  with  the  addition  of  three 
eggs,  boiled  hard,  and  chopped  fine. 

Serve  this  sauce  with  boiled  poultry,  or  fish. 

GIBLET    GRAVY. 

Take  the  liver,  gizzards  and  hearts  from  fowls ;  boil  tender 
and  chop  fine ;  make  a  nice  thin  drawn  butter  sauce  of  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  stir  in;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

DRESSING     FOR     TURKEY    OR     CHICKEN". 

One  quart  toasted  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  hot  water, 
4  tablespoons  of  butter,  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  salt,  pepper 
to  taste.  This  can  be  varied  in  several  ways.  A  little 
chopped  celery,  parsley,  sage  or  onion,  or  several  cloves  added 
to  the  other  seasoning  is  liked  by  some. 


DRESSINGS  AND  GRAVIES  39 

POTATO   DRESSING 

Is  made  by  using  equal  quantities  of  bread  crumbs  and 
mashed  Irish  potatoes. 

FOE  CHESTNUT  DRESSING. 

Boil  chestnuts,  remove  shells  and  skins,  grind  the  kernels 
very  fine  and  add  to  the  plain  dressing. 

FOR   OYSTER   DRESSING. 

Add  oysters  in  any  quantity  desired,  either  whole  or  cut 
in  pieces. 


VEGETABLES 

CREAMED    ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus  should  be  scraped  and  the  tough  part  of  the 
stalk  removed.  Boil  in  salt  water  until  tender.  Serve  on 
toast  with  melted  butter  or  cream  dressing. — Mrs.  C.  M. 
Cooper. 

STRING  BEANS  OR  SNAPS. 

Take  young  beans,  string  carefully  and  lay  in  cold  water. 
One  hour  before  wanted  put  them  into  boiling  water  with 
little  salt.     Serve  with  butter  or  cream  sauce. 

Some  prefer  pork  to  season.  Cut  slices  of  fat  salt  pork 
and  boil.  One  hour  before  beans  are  needed  add  beans  which 
have  been  prepared  to  the  boiling  pork  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.     When  done  serve  hot. 

BUTTERBEANS. 

Shell,  cover  with  cold  water.  When  ready  to  be  cooked 
(1  hour  before  serving)  throw  into  boiling  salt  water  and 
cook  until  beans  are  soft;  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  or  take  up  with  no  liquor,  and  use  hot  cream  sauce. 

BOSTON   BAKED  BEANS. 

Soak  1  quart  beans  in  cold  water  over  night.  Drain  water 
off  in  the  morning,  cover  with  cold  water  and  put  on  stove; 
and  boil  until  the  skins  of  the  beans  begin  to  crack,  as  you 
hold  them  on  a  spoon  and  blow  upon  them.  Then  drain  the 
water  off  and  rinse  in  cold  water,  put  them  in  a  large  bean 
pot  that  holds  3  quarts  and  add  a  pinch  of  soda  as  big  as  a 
bean.  Add  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  y2  tablespoonful  of 
ginger,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  and  ^2  pound  of  salt 
pork.  Fill  pot  full  of  hot  water,  put  on  cover  and  set  in 
hot  oven.  When  once  at  the  boiling  point,  bake  slowly 
for  12  hours.  Instead  of  molasses  y2  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup 
ketchup,  a  bit  of  red  pepper  and  mustard  may  be  used. 


VEGETABLES  41 

BAKED   BEAN   RAREBIT. 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  Yg  of  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika,  3/2  cupful  of  milk  and  1 
cupful  of  cold  mashed  beans.  Stir  until  thoroughly  heated 
and  add  -^  cupful  of  grated  soft,  mild  cheese.  As  soon  as 
the  cheese  has  melted  serve  on  small  circular  pieces  of  toasted 
bread  or  zephyrettes.  The  recipe  is  admirably  adapted  for 
chafing  dish  use. 

CREAMED    CABBAGE. 

One  cabbage,  IV2  tablespoons  salt,  little  red  pepper,  2  cups 
white  sauce.  Remove  outer  leaves  of  cabbage,  cut  head  into 
quarters,  wash  well.  Put  into  boiling  salt  water  and  let- 
stand  just  below  boiling  point  until  tender.  Do  not  boil. 
Add  red  pepper  while  cooking.  Take  out  and  drain,  put 
on  dish  and  pour  sauce  over.  (Cook  in  enough  water  to 
cover  in  pot.) 

WHITE    SAUCE. 

One  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  Lat  Harris. 

BOILED     CORN. 

Eree  from  husks  and  silks  and  put  into  freshly  boiled 
salted  water.  When  ready  to  serve  pour  melted  butter  and 
serve  hot. 

CORN    IN    POTATO    CASES. 

Bake  6  or  8  medium  sized  potatoes,  when  done  cut  one 
end  off  at  the  potato,  scoop  out  the  center  and  mash  thor- 
oughly. Grate  enough  green  corn  to  measure  one  cupful,  put 
it  in  a  double  boiler  with  y2  cupful  of  cream,  1  egg,  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  the  mashed  po- 
tato, 1  teaspoon  of  salt,  14  teaspoon  of  white  pepper;  refill 
the  potato  cases  with  the  corn  mixture,  and  place  in  the  oven 
until  thoroughly  heated  again,  and  browned  on  top.  Garnish 
with  parsley. 


42  VEGETABLES 

SCALLOPED    CORN    AND    TOMATOES. 

Cut  the  corn  from  about  8  ears,  peel  and  slice  about  3 
medium-sized  tomatoes,  mince  1  large  onion,  season  the  corn 
with  salt  and  pepper,  butter  a  baking  dish,  put  first  layer  of 
the  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  sugar  and  a  teaspoon 
of  the  onion.  Cover  lightly  with  cracker  crumbs  and  then 
add  a  layer  of  corn.  Continue  this  way  until  all  the  in- 
gredients are  used,  cover  the  top  with  cracker  crumbs  and 
bits  of  butter,  tbake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CORN   PUDDING. 

One  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs,  1  pint  milk,  1  pint  corn 
(after  cut  from  the  cob),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  (tea- 
spoon sugar,  if  you  like),  little  salt. 

CORN     CHOWDER. 

Two  ounces  salt  pork,  4  potatoes,  2  small  onions,  1  can 
corn;  1  quart  milk,  salt  and  pepper. 

You  may  pare  and  slice  the  potatoes  and  onions.  Cut  the 
pork  into  dice  and  put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  stewpan.  Cook 
slowly  until  crisp  and  brown;  then  add  the  potatoes  and 
onions  and  one  pint  boiling  water.  Boil  for  half  an  hour; 
then  add  milk — which  must  be  hot — and  corn.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  boil  up  once.      Serve  very  hot. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Soak  it  head  down  in  cold  water  for  an  hour.  Cut  off  all 
wilted  leaves  and  put  it  into  boiling  salted  water;  boil  until 
tender;  take  up  and  drain  in  a  colander.  Serve  with  cream 
sauce. 

CAULIFLOWER    HUNTINGTON. 

Drain  a  cooked  cauliflower,  separate  into  flowerets  and 
pour  over  the  following  sauce:  Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
!/4  cup  cream,  i/>  teaspoon  salt,  i/s  teaspoon  nutmeg  and 
the  juice  of  !/2  lemon.      Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  con- 


VEGETABLES  43 

stantly  until  mixture  thickens.  Add  2  tablespoons  butter, 
bit  by  bit  and  when  melted  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Jacques 
Phelps,  Dallas,  Texas. 

SALSIFY    OR   VEGETABLE   OYSTER. 

Wash  thoroughly,  scrape  off  skin,  cut  across  in  rather  thin 
slices,  stew  until  tender  in  water  enough  to  cover,  season 
with  salt,  butter  and  either  a  little  milk  or  a  teaspoon  flour 
made  smooth  in  a  little  water.     This  is  nice  served  on  toast. 

BROILED   TOMATOES. 

Cut  tomatoes  in  halves,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion 
juice  and  parsley  and  serve  with  butter.  Broil  under  the 
gas  flame  and  serve  very  hot,  with  buttered  toast. — Mrs.  D.  H. 
Mangum. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

A  delicious  dish  for  summer  luncheons  is  stuffed  toma- 
toes. Remove  the  pulp  with  a  sharp  knife  from  as  many 
tomatoes  as  will  be  needed.  Mince  either  one  cup  of  cold 
meat,  ham,  veal,  or  chicken  with  14  of  bread  crumbs,  and 
1  cup  of  mushrooms  previously  cooked,  if  the  canned  va- 
riety is  not  used.  Season  with  salt,  onion  juice  and  paprika. 
Add  melted  butter  and  the  tomato  pulp.  Fill  the  tomato 
cups  and  bake  20  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley.  These 
may  be  served  on  toast. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Put  a  layer  of  sliced  ripe  tomatoes,  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  bits  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  so  on  until  pan 
is  filled,  having  bread  crumbs  for  last  layer.  Sugar  to  taste. 
Put  bits  of  butter  all  over  top,  and  bake  until  brown.  Send 
to  table  hot. 

FRIED  EGG-PLANT. 

Pare  the  egg-plant  and  cut  in  very  thin  slices.  Sprinkle 
each  slice  with  salt  and  pepper,  pile  them  up  evenly  and  put 


44  VEGETABLES 

a  weight  on  the  top  to  press  out  the  juice.  Let  stand  half 
an  hour.  Beat  an  egg  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  boiling 
water,  dip  each  slice  first  in  this  and  then  in  bread  crumbs. 
Fry  in  very  hot  lard  until  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides.  Drain 
on  brown  paper  and  serve. 

TO   STUFF  AND  BAKE   EGG-PLANT. 

Boil  it  for  half  an  hour,  then  cut  in  halves,  scoop  out  the 
fleshy  part,  chop  finely,  mix  with  half  its  bulk  of  bread 
crumbs ;  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Replace  the  mixture  in  the 
shell  and  bake  the  whole  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Serve  plain  or  with  brown  gravy.  A  little  cheese  grated 
over  this  is  very  nice;  also  add  cold  chopped  meat,  if  liked, 
to  the  egg-plant. 

SPINACH. 

Spinach  must  be  washed  more  than  most  vegetables  to  be 
free  from  grit.  Cover  with  cold  water  until  half  hour  be- 
fore dinner.  Then  drain  and  throw  into  boiling  salt  water 
and  boil  for  30  minutes.  Take  up  in  strainer  and  serve  on 
hot  toast  with  poached  egg  on  top  of  spinach  and  melted  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper,  or  with  hot  cream  sauce. 

Some  prefer  with  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  on  spinach 
instead  of  poached. 

GREEN   PEAS. 

Shell  peas  and  cover  with  fresh  water  until  time  to  cook. 
Drop  in  boiling  water  and  when  done,  take  up  in  strainer 
and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Or  serve  with  cream  sauce  in  timbales. 

FRIED   PEPPERS. 

Wash  green  sweet  peppers  and  cut  them  in  fourths  length- 
wise. Remove  the  stem  parts  and  the  seeds.  Fry  them  in  1 
tablespoonful  of  olive  oil  for  each  4  or  5  peppers,  over  a  mod- 
erate fire,  so  that  they  will  brown  a  little  in  about  twenty 


VEGETABLES  45 

minutes  to  half  an  hour.  Turn  them  once,  to  fry  both  sides, 
and  serve  them  neatly  arranged  around  a  mound  of  steamed 
rice  or  on  a  hot  platter. 

STUFFED  BAKED  PEPPERS. 

Allow  1  cup  of  cooked  meat,  14  CUP  °£  canned  tomatoes  or 
1  small  tomato,  1  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  or  butter  and  ^  cup 
of  cooked  rice.  Put  all  together  in  a  saucepan.  Chop  fine 
one  slice  of  onion  and  add  with  salt  and  pepper  to  season  to 
the  mixture.  Cook  until  well  blended  and  stuff  the  peppers. 
Top  each  pepper  with  its  cover  and  bake  15  or  20  minutes  in 
a  very  hot  oven.  A  bread  tin  is  best  to  use  for  baking,  as 
the  high  sides  keep  the  peppers  in  a  standing  position. 

CREAMED  POTATOES. 

To  3  cups  diced  boiled  potatoes  add  1  pint  cream  sauce 
(see  sauces),  more  seasoning  if  necessary,  and  simmer  10 
minutes.  Or  season  cold  sliced  potatoes,  cover  with  milk 
and  stew  till  milk  is  reduced  one-half,  then  add  a  little 
butter. 

FOR    A    LUNCHEON    DISH. 

When  there  are  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  hard  boiled  eggs 
on  hand,  slice  the  potatoes  and  eggs  and  arrange  them  in  alter- 
nate layers  in  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  turn  over  all  a  rich  white  sauce.  Cover  the 
top  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  brown. 

HASHED    BROWN    POTATOES. 

Chip  cold  boiled  potatoes  very  fine;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  to  each  potato  allow  a  tablespoon  of  cream;  mix. 
Put  a  tablespoon  butter  in  ordinary  omelet  pan;  when  hot 
put  in  potatoes  about  an  inch  thick;  pat  them  down  smooth 
and  hard.  Cook  slowly  until  the  whole  is  nicely  browned ; 
fold  over  one-half,  cook  a  moment  longer  and  turn  out  as  you 
would  an  omelet. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Waddill. 


46  VEGETABLES 

CARAMEL    SWEET    POTATOES. 

Boil  1  dozen  small  sweet  potatoes  in  2  quarts  of  hot  water 
until  tender.  Peel  and  arrange  in  a  shallow  baking  dish  and 
sprinkle  them  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  %  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon. Then  pour  over  them  a  sauce  made  from  1  cup  of 
hot  water  and  l1/?,  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  of 
butter;  boil  this  10  minutes.  After  the  sauce  has  been 
poured  over  the  potatoes  thej  should  be  put  into  a  moderate 
oven  and  baked  until  nicely  browned. 

SARATOGA    CHIPS. 

Pare  potatoes  and  slice  very  thin  on  a  slaw  cutter,  soak 
ten  minutes  in  cold  water.  Take  out  and  dry  on  a  soft  towel 
and  fry,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  boiling  lard.  When  light  brown 
take  them  out  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Dredge  with  salt. 
Can  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 

SQUASH. 

If  tender  cut  up  and  boil  in  little  salted  water.  When 
done  pour  in  colander  and  drain,  mash  soft  and  smooth,  sea- 
son with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

A  little  cream  dressing  is  preferred  by  some. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Made  of  green  corn  and  butterbeans.  Put  in  boiling  water 
until  done  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

FRIED    ONIONS. 

Peel  (holding  onions  and  hands  under  water  to  prevent 
tears),  wash  and  cut  crosswise  so  as  to  form  undivided  rings. 
Flour  them,  fry  5  or  6  minutes.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  serve  with  beefsteak. 


VEGETABLES  47 


BOILED  ONIONS. 

Wash,  peel,  boil  15  minutes,  drain  off  the  water  and  add 
boiling  water.  Add  salt  and  boil  till  thoroughly  soft;  then 
pour  off  the  water  and  pour  over  them  sweet  milk;  season 
with  ibutter,  salt  and  pepper. 

STUFFED   TOMATOES. 

Take  1  dozen  tomatoes  (large),  cut  off  the  ends,  take  out 
seed  and  sprinkle  inside  with  salt  and  pepper,  having  pre- 
pared a  dressing  of  1  pound  cold  beef,  a  slice  of  cold  boiled 
ham,  chipped  fine.  Mix  with  a  teacup  of  stale  bread  crumbs, 
2  beaten  eggs,  a  fried  onion  (minced)  and  the  tomato  juice. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the  tomato  with  the  mix- 
ture and  bake  1  hour.     Very  good. — Mrs.  C.  0.  Fountain. 

TO    BOIL    RICE. 

Pick  out  all  discolored  grains ;  wash  it  well  in  two  waters ; 
drop  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  previously  salted ;  then 
set  the  kettle  on  the  back  of  the  stove  over  a  slow  fire,  and 
let  the  rice  simmer  very  slowly  until  done.  One  cup  of  rice 
will  require  one  quart  of  water.  Never  stir  it ;  when  it  is 
thoroughly  cooked  each  kernel  will  stand  apart  by  itself, 
plump  and  whole.  When  done  pour  immediately  into  a 
colander,  and  set  it  upon  the  coolest  part  of  the  stove.  Toss 
it  up  lightly  when  put  in  the  colander.  It  should  be  boiled 
in  an  open  stewpan,  lined  with  porcelain.  A  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice  added  to  the  water  in  which  rice  is  boiling  will 
aid  in  making  the  rice  whiter  and  keeping  the  grains  sepa- 
rate. It  all  depends  on  how  boiled  rice  is  cooked  if  it  is 
relished.  This  is  the  way  it  should  be  cooked  when  eaten 
with  meats  and  vegetables. 

STEAMED  RICE  IN  THE  FIKELESS  COOKER. 

Wash  1  cupful  of  Carolina  rice  in  a  strainer  held  under 
running  water.      Shake  it  into  3   cups  of  boiling  water  to 


48  VEGETABLES 

which.  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  has  been  added.  Let  this  come 
to  a  boil  and  put  it  at  once  into  a  fireless  cooker  with  several 
quarts  of  boiling  water  under  it.  Let  it  cook  one  hour. 
It  will  not  be  injured  by  two  or  three,  but  is  best  at  the 
end  of  the  hour.  When  all  ready  to  serve  open  the  kettle, 
add  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  with  a  fork 
lightly  turn  the  rice  at  the  bottom  up  over  this.  Serve  im- 
mediately on  a  hot  platter,  surrounding  it  with  fried  pep- 
pers. 

SPANISH    RICE. 

One  cupful  of  rice  cooked  dry,  1  quart  of  chopped  toma- 
toes, 2  slices  of  bacon  fried  and  chopped  fine ;  pour  the  bacon 
fat  on  a  small  piece  of  roast  beef  chopped  fine,  1  bell  pepper 
chopped  fine,  1  small  onion  chopped  fine;  cook  until  thor- 
oughly done  and  mix  with  rice.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  B. 
Teague. 

PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  MACARONI. 

Chop  cooked  macaroni  into  small  pieces  and  moisten  with 
%  cup  of  white  sauce  to  every  two  cups  of  macaroni.  Fill 
the  pepper  shells  prepared  as  directed  above  and  add  a  table- 
spoon of  grated  cheese.  Bake  in  a  granite  dish  or  casserole, 
tightly  covered.  Place  a  very  little  water  in  the  dish  and 
add  1  tablespoon  of  olive  oil  or  butter.  Cook  until  tender. 
If  kept  covered,  the  peppers  will  be  moist  when  done.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce  seasoned  with  salt  and  onion.  No  pepper 
will  be  needed. 

SPAGHETTI. 

One-half  package  of  spaghetti,  1  can  tomatoes,  2  large 
onions,  ^  cup  grated  pineapple  cheese,  1  bowl  of  any  kind 
of  gravy. 

Let  spaghetti  boil  until  tender,  fry  onions  in  a  little  butter, 
add  tomatoes  to  onions,  then  add  spaghetti  and  gravy  to  this, 
set  on  back  of  stove  to  cook  very  slowly  for  %  of  an  hour. 
Add  cheese  after  you  put  in  dish  to  serve. — Mrs.  A.  G.  Hous- 
ton. 


VEGETABLES  49 


MACARONI,    ITALIAN    STYLE. 


One  cup  of  macaroni  broken  in  1  inch  pieces.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender  about  20  minutes.  Drain 
in  strainer  and  pour  over  1  quart  water  to  prevent  pieces 
from  adhering.  Melt  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  flour;  when  smooth  pour  gradually  while  stirring 
iy2  cups  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  2-3  cup 
of  grated  cheese ;  season  with  salt  and  paprika  and  add  maca- 
roni. Turn  in  hot  dish  and  pour  over  it  ^4  cup  grated  ham ; 
garnish  with  parsley. — Miss  Mary  Perry. 


—4 


ENTREES 

CROQUETTES. 

How  to  Shape  Croquettes — If  the  mixture  is  thick  enough 
to  be  handled  it  may  be  rolled  into  any  desired  shape. 

How  to  Egg  and  Crumb  Croquettes — Slightly  beat  an  egg 
and  add  1  tablespoon  of  water.  Dip  the  croquette  in  this 
mixture  and  then  roll  it  in  very  fine  cracker  or  stale  bread 
crumbs.  The  process  may  be  repeated  twice,  which  insures 
the  croquette  against  soaking  fat. 

Rules  for  Testing  Fat  for  Frying — Drop  into  the  hot  fat 
a  cube  of  bread  from  the  inside  of  the  loaf,  and  if  in  forty 
seconds  it  is  a  golden  brown,  the  fat  is  then  of  the  right  tem- 
perature for  frying  any  mixture  which  has  been  previously 
cooked.  For  uncooked  foods  use  the  same  test,  allowing  one 
minute  for  the  bread  to  brown. 

FISH  ROE  CROQUETTES. 

1  can  roe,  1  quart  Irish  potatoes,  mashed,  2  hands  of  cracker 
dust,  1  pinch  cayenne  pepper,  black  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  1 
whole  egg  and  the  yolks  of  2,  butter  size  of  a  hen  egg.  Take 
roe  and  mix  the  mashed  potatoes  with  them ;  then  add  pep- 
per, salt,  butter  and  yolks  of  2  and  1  whole  egg.  Make  in 
cakes,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  then  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  then 
again  in  cracker  crumbs  and  cook  in  very  hot  pan  with  plenty 
of  grease.  Also  recipe  for  salmon  croquettes.  Use  in  the 
place  of  fish  roe. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Lewis. 

CHICKEN   CROQUETTES. 

Boil  1  large  hen  till  tender.  Cool  and  pick  meat  up ; 
grind  in  meat  chopper.  Put  l^/j  pints  of  sweet  milk  on  to 
boil ;  add  2  large  spoons  of  butter,  dash  of  nutmeg,  little 
onion.  Take  crumbs  from  inside  of  day-old  bread  and  stir 
into  milk  until  thick  as  jelly.  Take  from  fire  and  mix  with 
chicken.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  set  aside  to  cool. 


ENTREES  51 

When  cold  mould  into  croquettes,  roll  in  crumbs  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard.  Roll  over,  do  not  turn  flat. — Mrs.  C.  M. 
Cooper. 

POTATO     CROQUETTES. 

Mix  together  1  pint  hot  mashed  potato,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1-3  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  yolks  of  2  beaten  eggs. 
Stir  over  fire  till  mixture  leaves  sides  of  saucepan.  When 
cold  shape  into  croquettes,  dip  each  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in 
crumbs,  and  fry  brown  in  deep  kettle  of  smoking-hot  fat. 

SALMON    CROQUETTES. 

To  the  meat  of  1  can  of  salmon,  freed  from  bones  and 
picked  up,  add  2  medium-size  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and 
mashed,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  1  large  spoon  of  butter. 
Mould  and  dip  in  2  well-beaten  eggs ;  roll  in  crumbs ;  fry  in 
boiling  lard.  Lay  on  brown  paper  when  well  done  to  aibsorb 
grease,  before  serving. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

Unless  rice  has  been  boiled  in  milk  it  is  better  to  use  any 
"left  over"  for  other  purposes  than  croquettes,  as  it  is  impos- 
sible to  avoid  a  certain  flat  flavor  when  the  rice  has  not  been 
freshly  boiled.  If  rice  croquettes  are  made  according  to  the 
following  recipe  they  will  equal  those  sent  to  the  table  by 
the  most  skilled  chef:  Put  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler 
a  pint  of  milk  and  ^2  a  CUP  °f  picked-over  and  washed  rice. 
Cook  until  thick,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  a  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Remove  from  the  fire,  then 
beat  until  smooth,  adding  i/o  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  or  the 
grated  yellow  rind  of  half  a  lemon.  A  bay  leaf  boiled  in 
the  rice  and  milk  and  removed  as  soon  as  a  slight  flavor  is 
given  adds  to  the  daintiness  of  seasoning.  Spread  all  on  a 
flat  dish  and  when  cold  form  in  cork  shape,  dip  in  eggs,  then 
in  crumbs  and  cook  in  deep  boiling  fat.  This  will  make  12 
ordinary-sized  croquettes.     Sugar  may  be  omitted. 


52  ENTREES 

MEAT    CROQUETTES. 

Grind  meat  first,  1  onion,  a  few  mashed  potatoes  or  bread 
crumbs,  1  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  season,  a  little  milk,  mix, 
form  into  cakes,  and  roll  in  cracker  dust.  Ery  in  butter  and 
lard. 

NUT   CROQUETTES. 

Soak  one  cupful  of  stale  white  bread  crumbs  in  ^  a  cupful 
of  milk,  mix  with  1  cupful  of  chopped  nuts  (either  mixed 
nuts  or  walnuts).  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Shape,  egg  and  crumb.  Fry  in 
deep  fat. 

APPLE     CROQUETTES. 

This  is  a  specially  appetizing  dish  to  serve  with  roast  pork, 
goose  or  game,  and  is  prepared  as  follows : 

Press  the  juice  from  sufficient  quantity  of  stewed,  dried 
apples  to  make  a  pint.  Mash  very  fine,  then  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  sugar  to  sweeten  slightly  and  a  few  bits 
of  stick  cinnamon.  Put  over  the  fire  and  when  hot  stir  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  and  a  teaspoonful  salt,  wet  to  a 
thin  paste  with  cold  water.  Turn  out  in  a  greased  pan  and 
stand  aside  to  get  cold.  Then  shape  into  small  croquettes, 
dip  in  beaten  egg  yolk,  dredge  with  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep 
hot  fat.     Drain  and  serve  very  hot. 

SALMON    CROQUETTES. 

One  can  of  salmon ;  pick  out  bones,  skin  and  fat,  mash  fine 
with  half  Irish  potatoes,  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
lump  of  butter  size  of  small  egg,  yolk  of  2  eggs,  all  mashed 
fine,  and  made  into  croquettes ;  roll  in  the  beaten  whites, 
then  into  cracker  crumbs;  fry  in  hot  lard,  until  brown. — 
Mrs.  I.  C.  Rowland. 

SALMON    FRITTERS. 

Take  bits  of  salmon  that  are  left  and  chop  fine.  Stir  in 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  drop  this  in  hot  butter  and  fry  a 


ENTREES  53 

golden  brown.     Cold  meats  and  rice  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way,  and  it  makes  an  excellent  breakfast  disk. 

CUCUMBER  FRITTERS. 

Peel  and  grate  a  number  of  large  cucumbers,  press  all  tke 
juice  from  tke  pulp  and  measure.  To  eack  pint  allow  1 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  2 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  l/o  of  a  cupful  of  sifted 
flour  or  sufficient  to  make  a  very  tkick  drop  batter.  Beat 
well  together  for  a  moment,  add  1  scant  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  smoking-hot  fat  and  when 
well  brown  drain  on  ungiazed  paper. 

PARSNIP    FRITTERS. 

Scrape  and  boil  parsnips  in  salted  water,  very  little  salt. 
Mash  and  remove  all  strings.  Make  batter  of  1  cup  flour,  2 
egg's;  SA  CUP  milk,  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Mix  thor- 
oughly with  mashed  parsnips.  Fry  in  hot  butter. — Mrs. 
J  as.  B.  Down. 

FRITTERS. 

Put  a  pieec  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  1  pint  of  boil- 
ing water.  Stir  into  this  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  very  stiff ; 
beat  smooth  as  it  cools;  beat  in  5  eggs  (1  at  a  time).  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  in  hot  lard.  Serve  with  wine  or  sugar. — Mrs. 
B.  B.  Powell. 

CORN   FRITTERS. 

One  cup  cold  sweet  com,  y2  cup  flour,  1  beaten  egg,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  l/o  teaspoon  baking  powder,  seasoning. 
Make  a  batter  of  the  corn,  flour,  egg  and  baking  powder. 
Melt  the  butter  and  drop  the  batter  into  it  by  the  spoonful. 
Fry  until  nicely  browned. 

BANANA  FRITTERS. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  Eumford  Baking 
Powder,  14  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milk,  2  eggs.  1  tablespoon 


54  ENTREES 

melted  butter,  5  bananas,  cut  in  quarters,  2  tablespoons  wine, 
2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar.  Remove  the  skins  from  the 
bananas,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  then  across.  Place  in  a 
shallow  dish,  pour  over  the  wine  and  sprinkle  with  the  sugar ; 
cover  and  stand  Yo  hour.  Sift  together  thoroughly  the  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt.  Add  the  milk  gradually,  them 
the  butter,  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  until  thick,  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Drain  the  bananas, 
dip  in  the  batter  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve  as  an  entree  or  with  a  wine 
sauce  for  dessert. 

FRUIT    FRITTERS. 

Mix  and  sift  1  cup  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1 
tablespoonful  powdered  sugar  and  14  teaspoon  salt.  Beat 
1  egg  till  light  and  to  it  add  %  cup  of  milk;  combine  the 
two  mixtures  and  add  either  pineapple,  bananas  or  apples ; 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Drop  in  spoonful  into  boiling  fat  and 
when  brown  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  with  powdered 
sugar  or  with  the  following  sauce :  Mix  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  1 
tablespoon  cornstarch ;  stir  constantly  while  adding  1  cup 
of  boiling  water.  Bring  to  poiling  point  and  let  simmer  5 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  2  tablespoonsful  but- 
ter, IV2  tablespoonsful  of  lemon  juice  and  a  few  grains  of 
salt. — Mrs.  Andreiv  Davis. 


SANDWICHES 

FANCY    SANDWICHES    FOR,    AFTERNOON    TEAS. 

The  bread  for  sandwiches  should  ibe  cut  as  thin  as  possible 
from  loaves  baked  in  covered  pans.  Bread  one  day  old  or 
even  a  little  older  will  answer  the  purpose  better,  because  it 
does  not  crumb  in  the  cutting  as  fresh  bread  does.  When 
sandwiches  are  not  served  immediately  after  making  wrap 
in  damp  napkins  to  keep  fresh. 

The  butters  used  for  sandwiches  are  generally  mustard 
butter,  anchovy  butter  and  foie-gras  butter. 

Mustard  butter  is  butter  mixed  well  with  salt,  red  pepper 
and  mustard.  For  Anchovy  Butter  add  a  little  essence  of 
anchovy  to  it;  and  for  foie-gras  butter  take  same  quantity 
of  butter  as  foie-gras,  pound  them  together  and  press  through 
sieve. 

When  meats  and  poultry  are  used  spread  mustard  butter 
on  the  bread.  For  game  use  foie-gras  ibutter,  and  anchovy 
butter  for  fish. 

CAVIAR    SANDWICH. 

Spread  bread  over  with  mustard  butter  and  a  layer  of 
caviar  on  top.  Cut  desired  shape,  serve  with  these  sand- 
wiches on  nice  leaves  of  lettuce ;  arrange  nicely  on  separate 
dish,  1  leaf  with  the  finely  chopped  yellow  of  the  egg,  1  leaf 
with  very  finely  cut  onions  and  1  leaf  with  finely  chopped 
chives.  Serve  also  lemons  or  limes ;  cut  either  in  half  or 
quarter  pieces. 

CLUB    SANDWICH. 

Butter  a  slice  of  toast  and  cover  with  thin  slices  of  bacon 
cooked  until  crisp.  Next  place  on  this  thin,  very  thin, 
slices  of  chicken  breast  meat,  very  thin  slices  of  tomato,  a 
piece  of  cucumber  pickle,  a  lettuce  leaf  on  top  and  a  generous 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Cover  with  another  fresh- 
made  slice  of  toast  and  serve  at  once. 


56  SANDWICHES 

SARDINE  SANDWICH. 

One  can  boneless  sardines  mashed.  Add  juice  of  V2  lemon, 
enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Spread 
between  thin  layers  of  bread.  Put  thin  slices  of  cucumbers 
that  have  previously  been  put  into  French  dressing  on 
sardines. 

TURKEY  AND  TONGUE  SANDWICH. 

Cut  the  white  meat  of  turkey  very  thin,  also  the  tongue. 
Arrange  slices  of  both  on  mustard-buttered  slices  of  bread. 
Cover  and  trim,  cut  in  square  or  diamond  shape. 

SCRAPED   CHICKEN  SANDWICH. 

Scrape  white  chicken  meat  very  fine  with  the  aid  of  a  fork, 
season,  salt  and  pepper,  spread  over  the  bread  English  mus- 
tard butter,  cover  with  another  slice  of  buttered  bread,  trim 
off  the  crust  and  cut  in  shapes. 

DEVILED    HAM    SANDWICHES. 

One  cup  cold  boiled  ham,  or  canned  deviled  ham,  yolks  of  2 
hard-boiled  eggs,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  ^  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, 3  teaspoons  melted  butter.  Chop  the  ham  fine.  Rub 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  smooth  with  the  butter,  mix  with  the 
ham,  mustard  and  lemon  juice,  and  season  to  taste,  adding, 
if  desired,  some  mayonnaise  dressing.  Spread  between  thin 
slices  of  bread. 

NUT  SANDWICHES. 

Reduce  the  nuts  to  a  paste  with  a  food  chopper,  season 
to  taste,  mix  with  enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to  spread 
easily  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

PEPPER    SANDWICHES. 

Mix  equal  quantities  of  red  bell  peppers  and  English  wal- 
nuts chopped  very  fine,  season  to  taste  and  mix  with  mayon- 
naise dressing.     Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 


SANDWICHES  57 

CHEESE  AND  OLIVE  SANDWICHES. 

Work  a  cream  cheese  until  smooth  and  add  i/o  the  quantity 
of  finely  chopped  olives.  Season  with  salt  and  moisten  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Put  between  saltine  crackers.  This 
may  be  packed  in  glass  jars  to  use  when  wanted. 

DEVILED    CHICKEN. 

Two  cups  of  finely-chopped  cooked  chicken,  2  tablespoons 
of  chopped  parsley,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of 
bread  crumbs,  3  drops  of  onion  extract,  %  cup  of  cream, 
2  hard-boiled  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  the  bread  crumbs,  chicken  and  cream ;  stir  until  the  mix- 
ture is  heated.  Add  the  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites  pressed 
through  a  sieve,  the  parsley  and  seasoning.  Mix  well;  take 
from  the  fire,  put  in  shells  or  individual  souffle  dishes,  cover 
with  greased  bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Curry 
powder,  paprica,  and  other  seasonings  may  be  added  at  will. 
— Mrs.  J.  T.  Alderman. 

EGG   AND   OLIVE    SANDWICHES. 

The  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  4  chopped  olives,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  lemon  juice,  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
dust  of  paprika,  1  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  bread  and 
butter.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs,  olives,  butter,  lemon  juice, 
anchovy  essence,  and  seasoning  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  then  rub  the  mixture  through  a  sieve.  Spread 
it  on  bread  and  butter  and  cut  it  into  neat  rounds. 

K.IBBON     SANDWICHES. 

These  are  made  in  different  ways,  varying  both  breads 
and  filling  according  to  fancy.  For  instance,  take  6  thin 
slices  of  bread,  and  butter  on  both  sides.  Spread  layers  of 
deviled  ham  between,  then  press  the  entire  sandwich.  Slice 
crosswise,  making  thin  ribbon-like  sandwiches.  Or,  use  al- 
ternate slices — wafer  thin — of  white  and  brown  bread,  with 
a  filling  of  cream  cheese  and  chopped  nuts  or  olives. 


58  SANDWICHES 

RIBBON     SANDWICHES. 

Three  green  peppers,  a  little  celery,  2  cakes  of  neuchatel 
cheese,  mayonnaise  enough  to  make  thin.  Grind  celery  and 
peppers,  add  cheese  to  this,  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
- — 2  cans  of  pimentoes,  a  clash  of  onion,  ground  up,  and 
enough  mayonnaise  to  make  thin. 

Remove  crust  from  bread,  cut  in  slices  3/4  inch  thick,  put 
first  layer  of  pimentoes,  add  another  slice  of  bread,  then  a 
layer  of  the  pepper,  repeat  this  until  5  layers  of  bread  are 
used,  then  slice  as  you  would  layer  cake. — Mrs.  A.  T.  Hous- 
ton. 

TOMATO     SANDWICH. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  very  thin,  and  put  between  mustard-but- 
tered slices  of  bread. 

WATER   CRESS   SANDWICH. 

Cut  the  leaves  from  the  stems  and  put  between  buttered 
bread  sliced. 

ROLL    LETTUCE    SANDWICH. 

Spread  thin  slices  of  fresh  bread  with  mustard  butter  or 
mayonnaise  dressing,  place  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf  on  bread 
and  roll,  tie  with  ribbon  or  pin  with  toothpick. 

BACON    AND   STUFFED   OLIVE    SANDWICH. 

Fry  bacon  crisply  and  break  into  small  pieces.  Mix  with 
stuffed  olives  chopped  fine.  Add  mayonnaise  and  spread  on 
thinly  sliced  bread. 

FIG-PECAN    SANDWICHES. 

Ingredients,  i/o  pound  Turkish  figs,  i/o  pound  golden  Hal- 
lowi  dates,  14  pound  pecan  meats,  %  pound  shelled  Jordan 
almonds.  Run  all  through  a  meat  chopper  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Pack  in  round  baking  powder  tins  and  press  down 
firmly.     Let  stand  over  night.     When  wanted  for  use,  dip 


SANDWICHES  59 

can  into  hot  water  and  loosen  contents  with  knife.  Cut 
into  very  thin  slices  and  place  between  rounds  of  buttered 
bread. 

NOVEL  CUCUMBER  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  as  finely  as  possible  peeled  cucumbers  that  have 
stood  for  three  hours  in  salted  ice  water ;  then  drain  and  add 
half  the  quantity  of  chopped  nut  meats,  1  cupful  of  shredded 
lettuce,  V4  of  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  white  onion  and  suffi- 
cient mayonnaise  to  moisten ;  blend  thoroughly  and  spread 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  brown  bread,  cutting  into 
neat  triangles ;  serve  garnished  with  crisp  cress. 

SWEET    CHOCOLATE   SANDWICHES 

Are  good  to  serve  with  afternoon  tea  or  for  dessert  at 
luncheon.  Melt  2  squares  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add 
1  teaspoon  butter,  1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  3  tablespoons 
thick  cream.  Cook  5  minutes,  then  beat  in  Y2  cup  finely 
chopped  nuts.  When  cooled  slightly  spread  on  thin  buttered 
slices  of  bread.  Press  2  together  and  cut  in  diamonds  and 
rounds. 

NASTURTIUM    SANDWICHES. 

Put  both  blossoms  and  leaves  in  ice  water  for  half  an  hour 
before  using,  then  cut  the  bread  in  thin  uniform  slices,  butter 
lightly  and  lay  on  the  lower  slice  of  each  matched  pair  a 
medium-sized  leaf  and  several  of  the  bright  colored  petals. 
Dust  lightly  with  salt,  or  spread  with  just  a  scraping  of  may- 
onnaise (you  do  not  wish  to  lose  the  aromatic  pungency  of 
the  flower  itself)  and  put  together. 

ROSE  PETAL  SANDWICHES. 

Flavor  fresh  unsalted  butter,  if  you  can  get  it,  with  rose, 
by  packing  in  a  closed  vessel  surrounded  by  a  thick  layer  of 
rose  leaves.  The  more  fragrant,  the  finer  the  flavoring  im- 
parted. Allow  the  rose  leaves  to  remain  over  night.  Cut 
the  bread  for  these  dainty  sandwiches  in  thin  strips  or  circles, 


60  SANDWICHES 

spread  each  slice  with  the  perfumed  butter,  and  place  several 
petals  from  fresh  roses  between  the  slices,  allowing  the  edges 
to  show.  Sometimes  angel-cake  is  used,  spread  with  jelly 
made  from  rose  leaves  or  orange  marmalade. 

DELICIOUS    SANDWICHES. 

Delicious  sandwiches  for  the  afternoon  are  made  of  raisins 
and  nuts  chopped  together  very  fine,  moistened  with  a  little 
whipped  cream  and  seasoned  with  a  little  salt. 

SWEET    SANDWICH. 

Whip  cream  very  stiff,  chop  preserved  ginger  and  spread 
between  slices  of  bread. 

DATE    SANDWICH. 

Take  a  package  of  seeded  dates  and  mash  with  hands  until 
a  paste,  add  enough  lemon  juice  to  taste,  and  spread  between 
butter  thin  crackers. 


SALADS 

RED,  WHITE  AND  GREEN  SALAD. 

Equal  portions  of  celery,  tomatoes  and  green  peppers  (cut 
in  rings).  Add  grated  cheese,  if  desired,  and  serve  on  let- 
tuce with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  C.  V.  Singleton. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Crack  the  shell  of  a  fresh  boiled  lobster  and  pick  out  all 
the  meat.  Cut  this  into  inch  and  a  half-inch  bits.  Set  on 
the  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled,  then  mix  with  1-3  as  much 
cut  up  celery  as  you  have  lobster  meat.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
very  lightly,  with  paprika  or  cayenne,  and  mix  with  a  rich 
mayonnaise.  Put  into  a  lettuce-lined  bowl,  pour  mayonnaise 
over  the  salad  and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into 
quarters  and  with  boiled  lobster  claws. 

POTATO   AND    EGG   SALAD. 

Hard  boil  3  eggs  30  minutes;  shell  and  cut  fine  with  silver 
knife.  Boil  3  or  4  potatoes.  Dice  while  hot,  mix  with  cut 
eggs  and  add  French  dressing.  Let  stand  till  cold.  Serve 
on  bed  of  watercress  with  more  French  dressing  or  boiled 
dressing  thinned  with  vinegar. 

WALDORF    SALAD. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  apple  enough  to  make  a  cupful  and 
same  amount  of  celery.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  and  heap  on 
the  small  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce.  Put  a  spoonful  of  mayon- 
naise on  top. 

STUFFED   TOMATO    SALAD. 

Six  ripe  tomatoes,  %  pint  cream  dressing,  2  cucumbers, 
lettuce,  salt  and  pepper.  Scald  the  tomatoes  so  that  the  skins 
can  be  easily  removed.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each, 
and  with  a  small  spoon  remove  the  seeds.     Peel  the  cucum- 


62  SALADS 

bers  and  cut  them  into  dice,  season  highly  and  mix  with  at 
least  half  the  dressing.  Fill  the  tomato  cups  with  this,  and 
put  another  spoon  of  the  dressing  on  top.  Sprinkle  a  very 
little  finely  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  let- 
tuce leaves. 

FRUIT    SALAD. 

Two  oranges,  2  apples,  2  bananas,  i/o  can  of  pineapple  cut 
fine.  Dressing. — The  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  3  table- 
spoons of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  *4  °f  mustard,  a 
pinch  of  red  pepper.  Cook  in  double  boiler;  let  cool  and 
add  a  teacup  of  whipped  cream.— Mrs.  D.  Y.  Cooper,  Jr. 

CHICKEN    SALAD. 

Have  cold  chicken  free  from  skin  and  bones,  place  on  a 
board  and  cut  in  long  thin  strips ;  cut  these  into  dice,  place 
in  an  earthen  bowl.  There  should  be  2  quarts.  Season  with 
4  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  y%  teaspoon  pepper. 
Set  away  in  a  cold  place  for  2  or  3  hours.  Scrape  and 
wash  enough  tender  white  celery  to  make  1  quart.  Cut  this 
with  a  sharp  knife  in  pieces  about  i/o  inch  long.  Put  these 
in  the  refrigerator  until  serving  time.  Make  the  mayon- 
aise  dressing,  mix  the  chicken  and  celery  together,  and  add 
half  of  the  dressing.  Arrange  in  a  salad  bowl  and  pour  the 
remainder  of  the  dressing  over  it.  Garnish  with  white  celery 
leaves. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Massee. 

SHRIMP    SALAD. 

Thin  a  quart  of  cooked  shrimp-tails ;  put  in  a  bowl  and 
add  a  French  dressing.  Mix  well  and  place  on  the  heart 
leaves  of  lettuce,  pouring  on  a  little  more  of  dressing.  Or 
after  preparing  the  shrimps,  put  on  lettuce  leaves  and  pour 
over  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  adding  capers  and  olives. 

SHRIMP    SALAD. 

This,  too,  may  be  made  from  the  fresh  or  canned  fish. 
Marinate  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  mix 


SALADS  63 

with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Or  make  an 
unsweetened  jelly  of  gelatine  and  lemon  juice ;  then  while 
still  liquid,  wet  individual  moulds  and  pour  a  little  jelly  into 
the  bottom  of  each.  Put  in  several  shrimps,  and  when  the 
jelly  ibegins  to  set,  pour  on  more  to  cover,  then  put  inside 
in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  \Yhen  ready  to  serve,  turn  out 
the  moulds  upon  lettuce  leaves,  cover  with  mayonnaise,  and 
garnish  each  with  two  or  three  shrimps. 

STUFFED   TOMATO    SALAD. 

Six  selected  tomatoes,  medium-size,  6  tablespoons  chopped 
cold  boiled  veal,  3  tablespoons  chopped  olives,  3  tablespoons 
chopped  almonds,  6  tablespoons  green  peas,  the  firm  part  of 
tomatoes  carefully  removed  from  the  shells.  Mix  with  may- 
onnaise and  refill  shells. — Mrs.  R.  J.  Corbitt. 

IRISH  POTATO  SALAD. 

Seven  medium-sized  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  2  heap- 
ing tablespoons  butter,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  14  teaspoon 
salt,  3  eggs,  1  light  teaspoon  mustard,  tablespoon  celery  seed, 
%  cup  vinegar;  cook  together  in  double  boiler.  When  thick 
pour  into  the.  mashed  potatoes ;  add  three  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cut  fine,  1  large  cupful  of  cut  celery,  1  onion,  1  cupful  of 
Heinz  pickle  (sweet),  cut  fine  and  the  juice  of  it. — Mrs.  C. 
M.  Cooper. 

APPLE,  CELEKY  AND  PECAN  SALAD. 

Ingredients :  6  large  red  apples,  i/2  C11P  diced  celery,  i/o 
cup  diced  apples,  Yo  cup  pecan  meats,  mayonnaise.  Mix 
celery,  apples,  pecan  meats  and  mayonnaise  together  thor- 
oughly. Scoop  out  apples  and  fill  with  the  mixture,  placing 
on  top  of  each  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  and  a 
marasquino  cherry.     Use  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

BEEF    SALAD. 

Three  pounds  of  nice  lean  beef,  stewed  with  1  small  onion, 


64  SALADS 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  stew  in  as  little  water  as  possible, 
adding  more  as  needed.  Cook  until  thoroughly  done.  Now 
chop  as  for  chicken  salad.  Also  cut  up  3  bunches  of  celery. 
Now  make  a  French  dressing  of  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar, 
butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  a  little  mustard,  salt  and  1 
pint  of  vinegar;  cook  this  on  stove,  stirring  constantly  until 
it  is  thick;  then  pour  over  beef  and  celery,  stir  all  together 
and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve,  with  or 
without  dressing. — Mrs.  Jas.  R.  Rankin. 

CHICKEN   AND   CORN   SALAD. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  2  cupfuls  of  grated  corn,  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  %  cupful  of  rich  milk,  cook  in  the 
double  boiler  20  minutes,  then  add  1  tablespoon  Knox  gela- 
tine which  has  been  dissolved ;  take  from  the  stove  and  have 
ready  1  cupful  of  chicken  breast  chopped  fine  and  two  table- 
spoons of  minced  pepper;  mix  thoroughly,  turn  into  a  mold 
and  put  on  ice.  Unmold,  slice  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  whipped  cream  mayonnaise. 

FRUIT    SALAD. 

Grape-fruit,  celery,  nuts,  pineapple;  serve  in  grape-fruit 
rinds  with  cherries  and  dressing. — Mrs.  Cora  Phelps. 

STUFFED   TOMATO   SALAD. 

Wash  smooth  tomatoes,  cut  off  slice  at  top  of  each,  scoop 
out  middle  to  form  cup,  fill  with  chicken  and  celery  or  cold 
boiled  beef  and  celery.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 
— Mrs.  C.  0.  Fountain. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

Make  small  balls  of  cream  cheese  and  roll  them  in  chopped 
walnuts  or  pecan  nuts.  Place  one  in  the  hole  of  the  large 
slices  of  Hawaiian  pineapple,  put  in  turn  on  crisp  leaves  of 
lettuce  or  roumain.    Serve  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing.   This 


SALADS  65 

is  one  of  the  most  delicious  fruit  salads  and  especially  ap- 
propriate to  serve  with  a  game  dinner. 

EGG     SALAD. 

Boil  seven  eggs  till  hard  cooked,  and  when  cold  shell  them, 
cut  each  through  the  center  and  remove  the  yolks.  Next 
make  a  mixture  as  follows:  One  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
ham,  6  chopped  olives,  10  cooked  mushrooms  chopped  fine, 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  a  high  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper 
and  a  dash  of  curry  powder.  Fill  cavities  of  the  egg  with 
this,  and  replace  together.  Stick  the  eggs  full  of  cloves,  place 
on  rings  of  green  peppers  and  serve,  garnished  with  mayon- 
naise. 

CRAB   SALAD. 

You  have  your  choice,  at  this  season,  of  fresh  or  canned 
crabs.  If  fresh,  boil  a  dozen  crabs,  pick  out  the  meat  and 
season  with  salt,  paprika  and  lemon  juice.  Add  a  half  cup  of 
mayonnaise,  toss  lightly  and  heap  into  crab  shells,  well 
cleaned  and  each  lined  with  a  lettuce  leaf.  Top  each  mound 
of  crab  with  a  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise,  and  garnish  with 
triangles  of  lemon  and  small  olives. 

PRUNE    SALAD. 

Wash  thoroughly  1  pound  of  prunes  and  soak  over  night. 
Cook  tender  in  the  same  water  in  which  they  are  soaked ;  cool, 
pit  and  stuff  with  English  walnuts  or  cottage  cheese. 

Shred  a  bunch  of  lettuce,  make  a  nest  of  the  shreds,  and 
in  this  put  3  or  4-  of  the  stuffed  prunes.  Cover  with  mayon- 
naise and  serve. 

CELERY   AND   NUT   SALAD. 

One  cup  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  cup  almonds 
(blanched)  or  pecan  meats,  mayonnaise.  Mix  celery  and 
nuts  with  a  little  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with 
thick  mayonnaise  on  top.  Garnish  with  half  of  English 
walnuts. 


66  SALADS 

CHERRY  SALAD.- 

Buy  the  large  white  cherries  which  are  put  up  in  tin  cans. 
Remove  the  pits  and  slip  into  each  cherry  a  small  round  nut 
or  a  jDiece  of  pecan  or  other  nut.  Pack  in  a  dish.  Cover 
with  juice  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve. 
These  may  be  prepared  the  day  before. 

PERFECTION    SALAD. 

1  box  gelatine,  1  quart  boiling  water,  1  cup  vinegar,  y% 
cup  wine,  1  cup  sugar,  juice  3  lemons,  dash  red  pepper.  When 
gelatine  has  been  soaked  in  ^  cup  cold  water  and  dissolved 
in  the  boiling  water,  add  as  it  begins  to  congeal,  ^  pound 
blanched  almonds,  1  cup  chopped  celery,  1  cup  chopped 
pimentoes,  1  cup  chopped  olives.  Use  individual  moulds  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  R.  J. 
Corbitt. 

TOMATO   JELLY. 

Take  1  can  of  tomatoes,  stew  till  soft  enough  to  strain 
through  a  sieve  strainer,  taking  care  not  to  let  any  seed  get 
into  the  liquor;  set  the  liquor  on  to  boil,  adding  ^  cup  of 
vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
mixed  mustard,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  14  pint  gelatine 
previously  soaked  in  a  little  water.  Let  the  mixture  boil  a 
few  minutes,  pour  out  in  after-dinner  cups  or  small  moulds, 
add  a  little  chopped  onion  to  each  cup,  let  stand  in  a  cold 
place  till  it  congeals ;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayon- 
naise.—Mrs.  0.  P.  Shell 

FRUIT    SALAD. 

1  can  California  white  cherries,  1  can  pineapple,  1  dozen 
oranges,  1  large  bell  pepper.  Seed  the  cherries  and  put  a 
blanched  almond  in  each  one;  cut  the  pineapple  and  oranges 
into  small  blocks ;  mix  together  with  a  pint  of  boiled  dress- 
ing; put  in  freezer  and  pack  with  ice  or  keep  very  cold  on 
ice.     When  ready  to  serve,  place  on  nest  of  lettuce  and  gar- 


SALADS  67 

nish  with  green  pepper  cut  in  very  thin  rings. — Mrs.  Cora 
Phelps. 

SALAD    OF    PEPPERS    AND    CREAM    CHEESE. 

Select  two  large  green  peppers,  cut  on*  stem  and  remove 
seed,  wash  in  cold  water;  take  two  cream  cheeses,  mash  and 
mix  thoroughly  through  them  chopped  English  walnuts  or 
pecan  nuts.  Press  the  mixture  into  the  peppers,  taking  pains 
to  fill  all  crevices  and  put  away  on  ice  to  cool  and  grow  firm. 
When  ready  for  use  cut  in  slices  about  *4  inch  thick,  using 
very  sharp  knife.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — [Mrs. 
J.  R.  Singleton,  Mebane,  N.  C. 

COMBINATIONS    FOR    SALADS. 

Lettuce  and  watercress,  French  dressing,  lettuce  and  sliced 
onion,  French  dressing,  lettuce,  whole  tomatoes,  chopped  cu- 
cumbers, mayonnaise  dressing,  grape-fruit,  celery,  apple, 
mayonnaise,  shredded  cabbage,  pimentoes,  cooked  dressing. — 
Mrs.  C.  0.  Fountain. 

PINEAPPLE   SALAD. 

Cut  top  off  fresh  pineapple,  take  out  inside,  cut  in  dice, 
add  white  cherries,  chop  English  walnuts  or  almonds,  mix 
with  mayonnaise  and  refill  pineapple.  Garnish  dish  with 
pineapple  tops,  lettuce,  and  on  lettuce  lay  slice  of  red  ham 
and  mayonnaise  balls. — Miss  Lala  Burton. 

TOMATO    JELLY    SALAD. 

Ingredients,  half  a  box  of  gelatine,  1  can  of  tomato, 
chopped  celery,  broken  pecan  meats,  lettuce  leaves,  mayon- 
naise. Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  fif- 
teen minutes.  Season  the  tomatoes  highly,  boil  and  strain, 
adding  enough  hot  water,  if  necessary,  to  make  three  cupfuls. 
In  this,  while  boiling,  dissolve  the  gelatine.  Turn  out  into 
two  molds  of  different  sizes,  to  give  a  cup-like  form.  When 
cold,  set  on  lettuce  leaves,   fill  with  the  celery  and  pecan 


68  SALADS 

meats  well  mixed  and  marinated,   and  cover  "with  mayon- 
naise. 

RUSSIAN    SALAD. 

Add  Y2  box  of  gelatine,  dissolved,  to  l1^  cups  of  clear 
chicken  consomme.  Shape  into  cup  forms,  and  fill  with  a 
mixture  of  celery  and  pecan  meats,  but  marinated  in  the  fol- 
lowing dressing:  3  tablespoons  melted  chicken  jelly,  2  table- 
spoons olive  oil,  1  teaspoon  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  cover  the 
top  with  jelly  so  as  to  completely  close  it,  then  turn  on  a 
flat  dish,  surround  it  with  a  wreath  of  shredded  lettuce  and 
serve. 

GINGER    ALE    SALAD. 

Three  tablespoons  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water  and  dis- 
solved in  2  cups  boiling  water,  1  cup  ginger  ale,  3  teaspoons 
sugar,  ^4  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  When 
jelly  begins  to  congeal  add  1  cup  each  white  grapes,  chopped 
apple,  chopped  celery,  chopped  canned  pineapple,  chopped 
crystalized  ginger.  Use  individual  moulds  and  serve  on  let- 
tuce with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  B.  J.  Corbitt. 

MINT    JELLT. 

Soak  1  box  gelatine  in  1  pint  cold  water,  pour  2  pints  boil- 
ing water  over  mint  which  has  been  cut  into  short  pieces, 
and  add  this  to  gelatine  while  hot.  When  cool  add  juice  of 
3  lemons,  a  small  quantity  of  sugar,  and  strain  through  a 
fine  cloth.  If  the  mint  does  not  color  it  enough,  green  color- 
ing fluid  can  be  used  to  make  it  the  desired  shade.  Mould 
in  form  of  cup  and  use  on  lettuce  leaf  to  serve  salad  in. 

FROZEN"    TOMATO    SALAD. 

Cook  thoroughly  1  can  of  tomatoes,  strain  through  a  fine 
sieve,  add  enough  water  to  make  1  quart  of  juice,  cook  toma- 
toes and  water  together,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and 
lemon  juice.  Freeze.  Put  a  spoonful  of  this  on  a  lettuce 
leaf,  and  pour  a  thick  mayonnaise  dressing  on  top.     This 


SALADS  69 

frozen  tomato  can  also  be  put  in  sherbert  glasses  and  served 
with  the  meat  course. 

WHITE   SAT, AT). 

Arrange,  on  bleached  lettuce,  cubes  of  grape-fruit,  mask 
with  cream  cheese,  run  through  potato  masher,  cover  with 
French  dressing  and  cap  with  spoonful  of  Barle-Due  or  any 
subacid  jelly.  Serve  with  thin  slices  of  Graham  nut-bread. 
— Mrs.  T.  M.  Pittman 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 

MAYONNAISE. 

One  pint  of  Wesson  oil,  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs,  y2  teaspoon 
of  dry  mustard,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  sprinkling  of  cayenne 
pepper,  about  2  teaspoons  of  vinegar.  Rub  tbe  yolks  of  eggs, 
salt  and  pepper  well  together.  Stir  tbe  oil  slowly  into  this, 
y~2  a  teaspoon  at  a  time,  until  it  tbickens.  Wben  too  tbick 
to  stir  tbin  witb  a  little  vinegar.  Tben  add  tbe  remainder 
of  tbe  oil,  thinning  again  with  tbe  vinegar  if  necessary.  If 
preferred  lemon  juice  may  be  used  in  place  of  vinegar. 

MAYONNAISE    DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  saltspoon  mustard,  1 
saltspoon  salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  y2  pint  olive  oil,  2 
tablespoons  vinegar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  very  light ;  add 
all  dry  ingredients,  then  add  slowly  tbe  oil,  beating  con- 
stantly. Wben  half  tbe  oil  has  been  added  add  tbe  vinegar, 
then  add  the  remainder  of  oil.  All  utensils  must  be  cold. — 
Mrs.  IF.  B.  Waddill. 

BOILED    SALAD    DRESSING. 

One  teaspoon  butter  or  oil,  1  teaspoon  flour,  then  a  beaten 
egg,  following;  after  these  have  been  stirred  in  rotation,  as 
they  follow  each  other,  by  a  teaspoon  each  of  mustard  and 
pepper;  lastly  add  4  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  remembering 
lemon  juice  frequently  may  take  its  place  Heat  this  slowly 
over  the  fire,  stirring  as  it  "heats  until  it  makes  a  thick  com- 
pound and  flour  is  cooked.  It  should  then  be  salted  to  taste. 
When  cold  put  on  ice.  Before  using  beat  into  it  whipped 
cream  or  olive  oil,  and  thin  to  consistency  of  mayonnaise. — 
Mrs.  J.  D.  Rose. 

RUTHVEN  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mix  y2  tablespoon  of  salt,  y2  tablespoon  of  mustard,  %  of 


SALAD  DRESSINGS  71 

a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  egg  slightly  beaten,  2^  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter,  %  of  a  cup  of  cream  and  ^  of  a  cup  of 
vinegar.  Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until 
it  thickens.     Strain  and  cool.— Annie  Epps. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Ingredients:  3  tablespoons  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  vinegar, 
y%  teaspoon  salt,  *4  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  salt  and  pepper 
with  oil.  Drop  vinegar  in  slowly,  beating  continuously  with 
a  fork,  until  it  becomes  thickened  and  creamy.  Add  a  dash 
of  paprika  or  cayenne,  if  desired.  A  few  drops  of  Tarragon 
vinegar  improves  this  dressing  when  used  on  lettuce. 

MAYONNAISE   DRESSING  WITHOUT   OIL. 

Beat  well  2  eggs,  stir  in  1  teaspoonf  ul  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  pinch  cayenne  pep- 
per, 1-3  cup  vinegar,  melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
cream  it  into  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Let  1  cup  of  milk  come 
to  a  boil.  Pour  all  together  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly.  If  more  acid  is  needed  add  lemon  juice  after 
removing  from  fire.— .Mrs.  W.  D.  Massee. 

GOLDEN  DRESSING. 

The  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  light,  juice  of  1  lemon,  salt  to 
taste,  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  y±  teaspoon  mustard.  Cook 
slowly  in  double  boiler  for  few  minutes ;  when  done  let  cool, 
then  beat  in  two  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil  and  1  cup  whipped 
cream ;  mix  with  fork. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Palmer. 

SALAD   DRESSING. 

Four  eggs,  %  cup  vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard, 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Beat  all  together,  boil  till  it 
thickens,  stirring  all  of  the  time;  take  off  and  beat  until 
smooth. — Mrs.  0.  P.  Shell. 


72  SALAD  DKESSINGS 

THE    SALAD    DRESSING. 

Twelve  eggs,  1  cup  vinegar  or  lemon  juice ;  2  cups  sugar, 
14  cup  butter. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  well  together,  then  add  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice  and  butter.  Beat  again.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  and  stir  constantly.  When  thick  and  yellow  put  away 
to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve  dilute  to  the  desired  consis- 
tency with  the  cherry  juice.  Serve  6  or  8  cherries  on  a 
leaf  of  lettuce  and  cover  with  the  salad  dressing. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW. 

1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  a  little  butter,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  salt, 
pepper  and  vinegar  to  taste.  Make  a  custard  of  the  egg, 
milk  and  sugar;  add  a  little  butter  while  hot  and  vinegar 
when  cold. — Mrs.  J.  L.  H.  Missillier. 

RUSSIAN"  SALAD  DRESSING 

Is  a  thin  mayonnaise  seasoned  with  red  pepper  and  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  and  mixed  thoroughly  with  a  chopped  pi- 
mento to  change  the  color  of  the  dressing  to  red.  The  endive 
should  be  placed  in  a  salad  bowl  with  the  ends  pointing  to  the 
centre,  and  the  dressing  should  be  poured  in  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  so  that  it  covers  the  ends. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Atkins. 

GRAPE    FRUIT    SALAD    DRESSING. 

Whipped  cream  and  grenadine  to  taste. — Miss  Leah  Perry. 


TOAST 


DRY  TOAST. 


Slice  bread,  with  or  without  butter  on  it,  and  put  in  stove 
or  held  before  a  hot  fire  on  a  fork  until  brown. 

MILK    TOAST. 

Stale  bread,  butter  and  milk,  salt.  There  is  more  than 
one  way  to  make  milk  toast.  That's  why  it  is  sometimes 
very  good  and  sometimes  different.  Start  by  cutting  the 
bread  in  slices  about  1-3  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  them  in 
a  hot  oven  to  brown  until  they  are  crisp  all  the  way  through. 
Butter  the  bottom  of  a  frying-pan,  put  in  the  milk  and 
heat  gradually  up  to  the  boiling  point.  Have  the  toasted 
bread  well  buttered  and  spread  it  on  a  platter.  Sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  put  the  hot  milk  over  it,  serving  at 
once.  Allow  about  a  quart  of  milk  for  10  or  12  slices  of 
ibread. 

BREAKFAST  TOAST. 

Slice  bread,  butter,  dip  in  egg,  previously  beaten,  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

FRENCH  EGG  TOAST. 

A  pleasing  and  wholesome  dish  for  a  home  luncheon  is 
French  egg  toast.  To  make  it,  take  half  a  dozen  slices 

of  bread  and  toast  them  a  delicate  brown.  Chop  or  slice 
thinly  the  whites  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  mix  them 
in  a  sauce  made  of  a  pint  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  this  when 
hot  over  the  slices  of  toast,  and  grate  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
over  each  portion.  Add  a  garnish  of  parsley  and  serve  very 
hot. 


74  TOAST 

BICE    AND    NUT    TOAST. 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon 
flour  and  1  cup  milk.  Melt  the  butter  and  stir  in  the  flour, 
then  add  gradually  the  cup  of  milk,  stirring  constantly. 
When  thoroughly  cooked  put  in  y%  cup  of  American  cheese 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Stir  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Now 
add  y<z  cup  of  cooked  rice  and  1-3  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  serve  on  buttered  toast.  Do  not  allow 
the  mixture  to  boil  after  the  cheese  is  added. 

FRENCH  TOAST. 

Put  butter  in  frying  pan  and  heat.  Have  ready  some 
slices  of  bread.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  milk  and 
cream  and  a  little  sugar  and  cinnamon  into  the  mixture.  Fry 
a  nice  brown.  Serve  immediately,  or  should  you  like  sweet 
toast  sprinkle  with  sugar  or  serve  with  brandy  sauce. — Miss 
Laurine  Dorsey. 

HAM    TOAST. 

Put  one  ounce  of  butter  in  the  blazer,  and  as  soon  as  it  is 
soft  add  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion  and  a  cupful  of  finely 
chopped  cooked  ham;  stir  and  cook  for  3  or  4  minutes  and 
then  pour  in  4  eggs  that  have  been  beaten  until  very  light 
and  to  which  have  been  added  3  teaspoonfuls  of  water  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley.  Stir  quickly,  regulating 
the  flame  slightly  until  the  whole  is  a  light  creamy  mass, 
and  serve  heaped  on  circles  of  hot  buttered  toast. 

CHEESE  TOAST. 

Mix  well  with  yolk  of  1  egg,  2  ounces  grated  cheese,  2 
ounces  bread  crumbs,  and  li/o  ounces  butter.  Add  half  a 
dessertspoonful  of  made  mustard  and  a  little  salt  and  cayenne. 
Cut  slices  of  bread  into  circles  and  toast  a  nice  brown; 
cover  each  piece  with  the  cheese  mixture,  spread  thickly, 
place  in  the  oven  to  heat  through  and  brown  lightly,  and 
serve  at  once. 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Four  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  cream, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add 
the  cream  and  beat  only  enough  to  blend  the  yolks  and 
whites.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  frying  pan,  and  when  hot 
turn  in  the  eggs.  Do  not  stir  until  they  begin  to  form,  and 
then  gently,  lifting  them  up  and  over  that  the  flakes  may  be 
large  and  the  eggs  tender  and  well  cooked.  As  soon  as  the 
eggs  are  sufficiently  set,  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  until 
dry.  Season  and  serve.  Scrambled  eggs  may  be  varied  in 
the  same  way  as  omelets,  adding  chopped  ham  and  parsley, 
mushrooms,  minced  chicken,  veal  or  sweetbreads. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH   MUSHROOMS. 

Take  6  eggs,  6  mushrooms,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  red  pepper  and  slices  of  buttered  toast. 
Wash  and  peel  the  mushrooms,  chop  them  finely,  and  fry  in 
a  little  hot  butter.  Break  up  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  whisk 
up  well,  and  pour  into  a  saucepan.  Add  the  mushrooms, 
butter,  salt,  pepper  and  red  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  over  the 
fire  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  eggs  are  lightly  set.  Have 
the  toast  neatly  trimmed  ready  on  a  hot  plate  or  dish,  pour 
the  egg  mixture  on  top  of  the  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

SCRAMBLED   EGGS    WITH    CHEESE. 

Tour  eggs,  %  cup  milk,  y2  cup  grated  cheese,  salt  and 
pepper.  Beat  egg&,  add  milk  and  cheese  and  scramble,  stir- 
ring constantly  while  cooking. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  SAUSAGE. 

One  pound  sausage,  put  into  pan  and  fry,  stirring  fre- 
quently. After  it  is  brown  and  think  ready  to  take  up,  beat 
8  eggs  and  pour  in  and  stir,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


76  EGGS  AND  OMELETS 

DEVILED    EGGS. 

Boil  the  desired  number  of  eggs  20  minutes.  This  is  to 
render  them  digestible.  When  cool,  remove  the  shells,  cut 
into  halves  crosswise,  and  take  out  the  yolks  without  breaking 
the  whites.  Keep  the  whites  of  the  same  egg  together  as  they 
will  fit  better.  Rub  the  yolks  to  a  cream  with  a  little  melted 
butter;  add  a  little  made  mustard  or  sauce  from  the  chow- 
chow  bottle,  a  little  chopped  pickle  or  olives  and  salt  and 
paprika  to  taste.  Fill  the  mixture  into  the  whites  placing 
them  together  to  form  a  whole  egg  and  fasten  with  wooden 
toothpicks. 

SLICED  EGGS   WITH   SAUCE. 

Boil  6  eggs  hard,  then  slice;  pour  over  them  cream  sauce. 

EGGS    CREAMED. 

Set  over  the  fire  a  porcelain-lined  pan,  capable  of  holding 
just  the  requisite  number  of  eggs,  so  that  they  will  lie  close 
together,  the  whites  forming,  when  cooked,  a  layer  nearly  an 
inch  in  thickness.  In  this  pan  pour  a  gill  of  thin  cream; 
have  ready  six  eggs,  broken  one  by  one  in  a  saucer  and 
slipped  into  a  larger  dish,  and  as  soon  as  the  cream  reaches 
the  boiling  point  turn  in  the  eggs.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Simmer  two  minutes  and  set  in  the  oven  until 
the  yolks  show  a  tendency  to  thicken,  but  do  not  allow  them 
to  harden. 

If  you  wish  to  have  perfectly  poached  eggs,  a  French 
secret  is  to  stir  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  into  the  salted  water 
in  which  they  are  cooked.  If  you  wish  to  have  the  yolks 
covered  with  the  whites,  like  a  filmy  yellow  ball,  drop  the 
eggs  into  deep  water,  but  if  you  prefer  them  uncovered  and 
spread  out,  be  sure  and  have  the  water  shallow  in  the  pan. 
This  is  an  unfailing  recipe. 

POACHED   EGGS. 

Toast  small  slice  of  bread  for  each  egg',  trim  and  lay  on 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS  77 

hot  platter.  Have  frying  pan  partly  filled  with  salted  water. 
When  simmering,  carefully  break  in  1  egg  at  a  time.  Baste 
with  the  water  until  white  is  firm,  take  up  with  skimmer, 
trim  edge  of  white  and  slip  on  toast. 

CHEESE   OMELET. 

Three  tablespoons  flour,  3  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  grated 
cheese,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  eggs.  Cream,  flour  and  butter, 
then  add  milk,  put  on  stove,  let  come  to  a  thick  sauce,  remove 
from  fire,  add  cheese,  beat  eggs  separately,  then  add  yolks 
and  last  whites,  put  in  stove  and  cook  20  or  25  minutes. — 
Mrs.  E.  W.  Watkins. 

MEXICAN   OMELET. 

Beat  4  eggs  slightly,  then  add  4  tablespoons  milk,  y2  tea- 
spoon salt,  Yg  teaspoon  pepper,  and  4  olives  chopped  finely. 
Put  two  tablespoons  olive  oil  in  an  omelet  pan  and  when 
well  heated  turn  in  the  mixture.  Brown  quickly,  fold  same 
as  an  omelet,  turn  on  hot  platter  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

BAKED   OMELET. 

One  tablespoon  melted  butter,  6  eggs,  beaten  separately,  1 
cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  flour.  Mix  flour  with  a  little  milk 
then  add  remaining  milk.  Butter  a  dish  of  right  size  and 
bake  in  quick  oven.  — Mrs.  J.  T.  Patterson. 

PINEAPPLE  OMELET. 

Add  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  to  a  can  of  crushed  or 
grated  pineapple  and  cook  gently  till  the  juice  is  somewhat 
reduced.  Make  a  5-egg  omelet  and  fold  in  the  hot  pineapple 
while  the  omelet  is  still  very  soft.  Dust  the  top  thickly 
with  granulated  sugar  and  brown  with  a  salamander  or  in 
the  broiler  of  a  gas  stove.  A  quick  and  delicious  luncheon 
dish. 

BREAD  OMELET. 

Soak  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  in  2  tablespoons  of  milk 


78  EGGS  AND  OMELETS 

for  10  minutes;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  To  this  add 
the  ibeaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  last  the  stiffly  beaten  white. 
Cook  same  as  other  omelet. 

PLAIN   OMELET. 

Four  eggs,  4  tablespoons  water,  14  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of 
pepper,  2  tablespoons  butter.  Beat  eggs  separately;  add 
salt,  pepper  and  water  to  yolks.  Beat  whites  in,  and  turn 
into  a  pan  in  which  the  butter  has  been  melted.  Put  on 
top  of  stove  to  set,  then  in  oven  to  brown.  Turn  on  dish  and 
garnish. 


BREADS 

WHITE    BREAD QUICK    METHOD. 

Two  cakes  Fleischmann's  yeast,  ?A/2  quarts  sifted  flour 
(equal  to  3  pounds  unsifted  flour),  1  quart  lukewarm  water, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  lard  or 
butter.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  half  of  the  water,  and  in  the 
other  half  dissolve  the  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly  the 
water  containing  the  yeast,  salt  and  sugar,  then  stir  in 
gradually  3  quarts  of  the  flour.  Now  work  in  the  lard  or 
butter  and  make  a  moderately  stiff  dough.  Knead  well  for 
10  or  15  minutes;  then  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from 
draft,  to  rise  until  light,  which  will  be  in  from  2  to  2% 
hours.  Cover  with  cloth  or  paper  to  prevent  crust  forming 
on  top.  When  light  make  into  loaves  with  the  hand,  place 
in  well-greased  pans  and  set  to  rise  again  for  45  minutes. 
When  light  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  from  %  of  an  hour  to  an 
hour.  The  extra  pint  of  flour  will  be  needed  to  keep  knead- 
ing board  well  floured  while  kneading  and  forming  into 
loaves.  This  makes  three  1%  pound  loaves.  The  whole  pro- 
cess takes  about  4  hours.  Half  milk  and  half  water  may  be 
used  instead  of  all  water,  if  a  richer  loaf  is  desired.  Young 
housekeepers  who  have  never  done  any  baking  have  been  emi- 
nently successful  by  following  this  recipe. 

WHITE   BREAD SPONGE   METHOD. 

One  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  IV2  quarts  lukewarm 
water,  1  tablespoon  salt,  4!/2  quarts  sifted  flour.  Dissolve 
the  yeast  in  1  quart  of  the  lukewarm  water  and  add  to  it 

2  quarts  of  the  sifted  flour,  or  sufficient  to  make  an  ordinary 
sponge ;  set  aside  to  rise  for  about  2  hours  to  2  hours  and  a 
half.  When  well  risen  add  to  it  the  pint  of  lukewarm  water 
in  which  the  salt  has  been  dissolved ;  then  add  the  remainder 
of  the  flour  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  dough.  Knead  thor- 
oughly and  set  aside  to  rise  for  from  ll/o  to  2  hours.     When 


80  BBEADS 

light  turn  out  oil  a  well-floured  kneading  board  and  knead 
thoroughly;  divide  into  4  equal  parts  and  place  in  well- 
greased  baking-pans.  Let  rise  again  for  about  1  hour.  When 
light  bake  for  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  After  bread  is 
baked  remove  the  loaves  from  the  pans  and  lean  them  against 
the  empty  pans,  so  as  to  cool  the  loaves  by  contact  with  the 
air  on  all  sides.  This  recipe  makes  4  large  loaves.  The 
whole  process  takes  from  6  to  G^  hours,  and,  if  followed 
closely,  will  produce  very  good  results. 

WHITE  BREAD  FOR  USE  OVER  NIGHT. 

One  cake  Meischmann's  yeast,  1  quart  water,  3  quarts 
sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  lard,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons 
salt.  Dissolve  yeast  and  salt  thoroughly,  but  separately,  in 
the  water,  which  should  be  lukewarm  in  winter  and  cold  in 
summer;  add  to  this  the  lard  and  sugar  and  stir  in  sufficient 
of  the  flour  to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  be  handled;  then 
turn  dough  out  on  floured  kneading  board  and  knead  thor- 
oughly for  10  or  15  minutes,  or  until  it  will  not  stick  to  the 
board  or  hand.  Unless  bread-pan  with  cover  is  used  cover 
dough  carefully  with  a  cloth  or  paper  to  prevent  crust  from 
forming  on  top ;  then  set  aside  to  rise.  If  set  to  rise  be- 
tween 9  and  10  in  the  evening  it  should  be  light  enough  to 
pan  at  or  before  7  next  morning.  Be  sure  to  set  the  dough 
in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft.  In  the  morning  knead 
thoroughly ;  divide  into  loaves ;  place  in  well-greased  baking- 
pans  and  set  to  rise  again  until  light.  When  well  risen, 
which  will  be  in  about  %  of  an  hour,  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  about  1  hour.  This  makes  4  ordinary-sized  loaves 
or  3  large  loaves. 

QUICK   LUNCH    BISCUIT. 

One  cake  Eleischmann's  yeast,  y2  cup  milk,  1  rounded 
cup  of  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  14  level  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  butter.  Heat  milk  to  trifle  above  blood  heat  (about 
100  degrees)  and  dissolve  thoroughly  therein  the  yeast  and 


BREADS  81 

sugar ;  put  butter  in  mixing  bowl  and  place  over  a  fire  a  mo- 
ment to  melt ;  add  to  it  the  milk  containing  yeast  and  sugar ; 
then  add  the  salt  and  flour  and  stir  imtil  smooth.  Throw 
a  good  handful  of  flour  over  center  of  kneading  board ;  flour 
hands  well,  turn  out  dough  and  form  into  large  hall;  replace 
in  mixing  bowl;  cover  bowl  with  pie  tin  and  let  rise  for  15 
minutes  in  a  very  warm  place;  then  roll  out  to  V2  incn  in 
thickness ;  cut  into  biscuits ;  place  in  greased  baking-pan ; 
butter  sides  to  prevent  sticking  together;  then  place  baking 
pan  over  bowl  half-filled  with  hot  water  and  cover  over  with 
pie  tin  or  greased  paper,  let  rise  30  minutes ;  then  bake  for  10 
minutes  in  hot  oven.     Makes  1  dozen  and  takes  about  1  hour. 

PAKKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Two  cakes  Fleischmann's  yeast,  1  pint  lukewarm  milk,  2 
teaspoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  lard,  3  pints 
sifted  flour.  Sift  flour  in  bowl,  make  well  in  center,  add 
salt,  sugar  and  lard,  and  then  stir  in  the  milk  in  which  the 
yeast  has  been  thoroughly  dissolved.  Knead  well.  Cover 
carefully  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  for 
about  an  hour  and  10  or  15  minutes.  Then  form  into  oblong 
rolls  and  place  in  pan,  touching  the  sides  of  each  roll  with 
a  little  melted  butter.  Let  rise  for  about  J/2  an  hour  in  a 
warm  place.  Bake  in  a  good  oven  for  20  minutes.  The 
whole  process  should  take  about  2  hours.  Just  as  good  re- 
sults can  be  had  by  using  1  cake  of  yeast  and  allowing  another 
hour  or  so  in  the  rising.     This  makes  2%  dozen  rolls. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT. 

One  pound  flour,  2%  ounces  lard,  V-/2  gills  water,  salt- 
spoon  salt ;  make  stiff ;  beat  or  roll  through  biscuit  mill  until 
soft  and  pliable. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Rose. 


82  BREADS 

DELICIOUS  MILK  BISCUIT. 

One  quart  sifted  flour,  Vo  teaspoon  salt,  2  rounding  table- 
spoons Snowdrift,  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough  (about 
1%  cups),  2  rounding  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Sift  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder  together,  rub  in  shortening  with  tips 
of  fingers,  add  milk,  mixing  with  wooden  spoon.  Turn  out 
on  floured  board,  and  handle  only  enough  to  roll  and  cut  out. 
The  dough  will  be  very  soft  and  light.  Bake  quickly  in  hot 
oven.  These  biscuits  are  delicious  and  digestible.  The  secret 
of  good  biscuits  is  in  having  the  dough  very  soft  and  not 
handling. 

POTATO    BISCUIT. 

One  quart  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  3  ounces  lard 
as  for  powder  biscuit,  add  2-3  pint  sweet  potatoes  steamed 
done,  3  ounces  butter,  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Cream  potatoes, 
butter  and  sugar  very  light  and  add  to  flour  (after  it  has 
been  sifted  with  powder  and  lard  rubbed  in).  Mix  with 
sweet  milk  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Zolli- 
coffer. 

DEVILED  BISCUIT. 

One  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese,  1  of  dry  mustard,  1  of 
butter,  3/o  teaspoon  of  salt,  ^  teaspoon  of  red  pepper,  2 
tablespoons  of  milk.  Mix  well  and  spread  lightly  over  half 
dozen  soda  crackers  ;  toast  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Zollic offer. 

viny's  maple  biscuits. 

One  light  quart  of  flour,  3  medium-size  Irish  potatoes 
boiled  and  mashed,  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  little  salt,  !/o  cake  of  Fleischmann's 
yeast  dissolved  in  small  cup  of  tepid  water.  Make  up  4 
hours  before  needed  and  let  rise;  i/o  hour  before  meal  roll 
out,  cut  and  let  rise  again.  Bake  quickly. — Mrs.  C.  M. 
Cooper. 


BKEADS  83 

MADISON  BISCUIT. 

To  1  quart  flour  add  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  of 
sugar,  2  of  yeast  and  1  of  sweet  milk ;  make  into  batter 
nearly  as  thin  as  for  waffles  and  let  rise;  when  light  add 
flour  enough  to  roll;  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  and  let  rise 
again  before  baking. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Rose. 

QUICK   BOLLS. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard,  1  full 
teaspoon  sugar,  scant  teaspoon  salt;  scald  together  until  but- 
ter melts;  set  off  until  milk  warm;  then  put  in  1  cake 
Fleischmann's  yeast ;  when  dissolved  make  up  3  cups  flour ; 
knead  well  and  make  into  small  rolls ;  let  rise  2  hours ;  then 
bake. — Mrs.  Cora  Phelps. 

EXQUISITE  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cake  yeast,  1  cup  lukewarm  milk,  2  tablespoons  luke- 
warm water,  2y%  pints  sifted  flour,  2  eggs,  li/o  tablespoons 
butter,  %  cup  light  brown  sugar,  *4  teaspoon  salt,  %  tea- 
spoon mace.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  water;  to 
this  add  the  milk  and  1  pint  of  flour  to  make  sponge;  set 
aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  1  hour  and  20  minutes,  or 
until  bubbles  rise  to  the  surface.  When  well  risen  add  the 
butter  and  sugar,  thoroughly  mixed;  the  salt,  mace,  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  remainder  of  flour  (IV2  pints)  to  make  a 
soft  dough ;  knead  thoroughly,  but  keep  the  dough  soft.  Set 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise  again ;  should  be  light  in  1  hour  and 
a  half.  When  light  roll  out  to  about  14  inch  in  thickness 
on  well-floured  kneading  board  and  cut  with  doughnut  cutter. 
Let  rise  again  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  for  Y2  an 
hour;  then  drop  into  deep,  boiling  fat.  Each  doughnut 
should  be  turned  frequently  so  as  to  brown  evenly. 
The  whole  batch  should  be  fried  in  about  15  minutes.  This 
makes  3  dozen.  The  entire  process  takes  about  4  hours. 
When  through  frying  peel  and  slice  raw  potato,  remove  the 


84  BREADS 

fat  from  the  fire  and  drop  the  potato  into  it.  When  cool, 
not  hard,  remove  potato  and  set  fat  away  to  harden.  The 
potato  prevents  the  fat  from  burning  and  will  enable  you  to 
use  it  several  times. 

BREAKFAST  BUNS. 

One  cupful  of  bread  dough,  1  cupful  of  warm  water,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  l/o  teaspoonful  of  salt  flour,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lard.  Measure  the  dough  when  you  are  ready  to 
make  your  bread  dough  into  loaves.  Mix  all  the  ingredients 
together  and  add  enough  flour  so  that  the  dough  can  be 
kneaded  well.  Let  it  rise  until  the  evening,  then  make  into 
buns  and  place  them  about  an  inch  apart  on  well-greased  tins. 
Let  rise  until  the  morning,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  a  rich 
brown  color.     These  buns  make  excellent  sandwiches. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  batter  of  flour  thick 
enough  to  drop  off  spoon.  Stir  every  hour  until  well  risen. 
Add  1  quart  flour,  lard  size  hen  egg,  little  sugar,  saltspoon 
soda.  After  rising  sufficiently  make  out  in  small  loaves. 
— Mrs.  John  N.  Powell. 

NUT  LOAF. 

1  egg,  3/x  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk  (sweet),  3^  cups  sifted 
white  flour,  3^/2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  l^>  teaspoon  salt, 
1  cup  chopped  nut  meats.  Beat  egg,  add  sugar,  then  milk, 
flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt,  then  the  nut  meats. 
Put  into  a  well-greased  pan  and  let  rise  for  25  minutes. 
Put  into  a  slow  oven  and  cover  with  paper  for  first  20  min- 
utes ;  cook  about  1  hour. — Mrs.   W.  B.  Parhwm. 

SCOTCH  POTATO  SCONES. 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  1-3  cup  butter,  1  cup  mashed 
potatoes,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  egg. 
Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together,  and  after 


BKEADS  85 

adding  the  mashed  potatoes  rub  in  the  butter  lightly.  Make 
a  soft  dough  by  adding  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and,  if  neces- 
sary, a  little  milk.  Make  the  dough  of  the  right  consistency 
to  roll  out.  If  the  potato  happens  to  be  moist  no  milk  will 
be  required.  Divide  the  dough  into  three  parts  and  roll  into 
rounds  half  an  inch  thick.  Cut  each  of  these  across  twice, 
so  as  to  make  four  parts.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  or  on  a 
griddle,  and  when  they  are  done  split  and  butter  them,  and 
serve  hot. 

NUT  BREAD. 

1  egg,  y~2  cup  sugar,  1  spoon  salt,  1^4  cups  milk,  4  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  cup  chopped  nuts,  4  cups  sifted  flour. 
Put  in  pan,  set  in  warm  place  30  minutes.  Bake  30  to  45 
minutes. — Mrs.  R.  J.  Corbitt. 


BATTER  BREADS 

BATTER  BKEAD. 

One  pint  meal,  2  eggs,  1  spoon  lard,  1  teaspoon  salt;  beat 
the  eggs  very  light;  then  add  the  lard,  mix  and  beat  very 
light;  then  sift  the  meal  into  this,  thin  it  with  milk  to  the 
consistency  of  batter  cakes,  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Rose. 

EXCELLENT   BATTER   CAKES   WITHOUT  EGGS. 

One  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  1  cup  lukewarm  water, 
1-Vi  cups  lukewarm  milk,  2  heaping  cups  sifted  flour,  4 
tablespoons  lard,  Vi>  teaspoon  salt,  4  tablespoons  syrup.  Sift 
flour  into  bowl;  add  to  it  the  salt,  syrup,  lard  (melted),  and 
lastly,  the  milk  and  water  in  which  tne  yeast  has  previously 
been  dissolved  (add  the  milk  and  water  gradually).  Then 
beat  the  batter  thoroughly.  When  smooth  set  aside  over- 
night to  rise.  In  the  morning  beat  well  and  bake  on  well- 
greased  griddle. 

QUICK  BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

To  1  pint  of  buckwheat  put  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon 
of  sugar;  make  a  good  stiff  batter  with  buttermilk;  1  level 
teaspoon  soda.  Bake  on  a  hot  plate  well  oiled. — Mrs.  J.  T. 
Elmore. 

SOUTHERN   SALLY   LUNN. 

One  quart  flour,  3  eggs,  1  heaping  teaspoon  lard,  a  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  water,  1  pint  new 
milk.  Beat  yolks  light;  stir  in  yeast,  then  lard,  then 
milk  and  flour.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  add  to  mix- 
ture, folding  them  in.  Set  to  rise  in  a  loaf  cake  pan  over 
night  in  a  warm  place.     Bake  in  medium  oven. 

SALLY   LUNN. 

One-half  cake  yeast  soaked  in  a  cup  of  warm  water,  %  cup 
of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  quart  of 


BATTEK  BREADS  87 

flour.  Mix  and  let  stand  a  few  hours  to  rise,  then  stir  in 
2-3  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  pour  in  a  greased  pan  and 
let  stand  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  about  1  hour.  Bake  slowly. 
The  sugar  may  be  left  out. — Mrs.  0.  P.  Shell. 

QUICK  SALLY  LUNN. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs,  1  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  flour  to  make  batter  as  stiff  as  cake,  with  3  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder;  bake  in  cake  mould  or  muffin  tins. — Mrs. 
J.  T.  Alderman. 

SALLY     LUNN. 

One-fourth  cup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed.  Beat  slightly; 
add  2  eggs;  beat  until  thick  and  creamy;  add  1  cupful  of 
milk,  3  cupfuls  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Put  in  a  deep  pan  and  grate  nutmeg  over.  Bake  20  or  30 
minutes. — Mrs.  J.  Pi.  Singleton;  Mebane,  N.  C. 

FLANNEL  CAKES. 

One  cup  of  sifted  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  flour  (before  sift- 
ing), 1  large  spoon  of  lard,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  eggs,  14 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water,  enough  warm  water 
to  be  added  to  make  stiff  batter.  Let  rise  over  night  and  next 
morning  add  teaspoonful  of  brown  or  white  sugar.  Bake 
on  either  soapstone  or  a  greased  baker. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Coop.er. 

EGG  BREAD. 

Two  cups  meal,  2  eggs,  1  cup  cold  water,  1  cup  boiling 
water,  lard  size  of  egg. 

One  pint  meal,  1  pint  buttermilk,  level  teaspoonful  soda, 
salt,  lard,  level  tablespoonful. — Mrs.  Henry  Perry. 

DELICIOUS  MUFFINS. 

One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls Rumford's   baking  powder,    1   tablespoonful  butter,    1 


88  BATTEE  BREADS 

tablespoonful  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk.  Sift  the  flour,  salt 
and  baking  powder  together,  rub  in  the  butter,  add  sugar, 
and  mix  to  a  batter  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk.  Last  of 
all  add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  at 
once  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  8.  H.  Allen* 

BUTTERMILK     MUFFINS. 

Two  eggs  beaten,  1  quart  buttermilk,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
1  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  sufficient  flour  to  drop  (bake  in 
muffin  rings). 

WHEAT    MUFFINS. 

One  cake  yeast,  1  cup  lukewarm  milk,  2  cups  sifted  flour, 
3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the  milk ;  add  to  it  the 
butter,  salt,  sugar  and  flour  to  make  a  moderately  firm  bat- 
ter. Set  to  rise  in  a  moderately  warm  place  for  about  2 
hours.  When  well  risen  add  to  it  the  eggs  beaten  light ;  drop 
into  greased  muffin  tins  and  bake  at  once  in  a  hot  oven  for 
about  20  minutes.  They  should  be  eaten  immediately.  If 
set  overnight  use  Yo  cake  of  yeast.  The  entire  process  takes 
about  2  i/o  hours. 

RISEN  MUFFINS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1 
tablespoon  of  lard,  1-3  cake  of  yeast.  Make  into  thick  bat- 
ter and  rise  overnight.  Fill  muffin  rings  and  rise  for  15 
minutes  and  bake  slowly. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  of  meal,  1  cup  sweet  milk  and  1  cup  sour  milk. 
After-dinner  coffee-spoon  level  full  of  soda,  salt  to  taste  and  2 
eggs. — Mrs.  Henree  E.  Newell. 

POP-OVERS. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  milk,  y2  teaspoon  salt.     Sift 


BATTEE  BREADS  89 

the  flour  and  salt  together,  beat  the  eggs  until  creamy;  add 
the  milk  and  flour  and  beat  well ;  then  strain.  Cook  in  pop- 
over  cups  for  25  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Henry  Perry. 

RIOE    MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  flour,  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milk,  14  CUV 
melted  butter,  1  cup  boiled  rice,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, 2  eggs.  Sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder, 
add  the  rice,  and  work  in  lightly.  Mix  to  a  batter  with  the 
eggs,  milk  and  butter,  and  bake  in  hot-greased  gem  pans  about 
30  minutes. 

viny's  pop-over  muffins. 

One  quart  of  flour,  6  eggs,  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  little 
salt.  Beat  yolks,  add  flour  and  milk  alternately,  then,  lastly, 
well-beaten  whites.  Bake  quickly  in  well-greased  muffin  tins. 
Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

BREAKFAST    MUFFINS. 

One  pint  of  meal,  sifted  with  y%  teaspoon  of  salt  into  bowl 
with  large  spoon  of  lard.  Pour  over  large  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  beat  'until  cool.  Add  2  eggs  and  beat  hard.  Have 
greased  biscuit-pan  and  drop  in  spoonfuls,  not  touching,  and 
bake  in  quick  oven.  Very  nice  to  eat  with  fish. — Mrs.  C.  M. 
Cooper. 

BREAKFAST  GEMS. 

Two  eggs,  1  pint  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
i/4  cupful  of  sugar,  1  pinch  of  salt,  14  cupful  of  sweet  milk. 
Have  stiff  batter,  dip  up  with  teaspoon  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Powdered  sugar  may  be  sifted  over  gems. — Mrs.  J.  R. 
Singleton,  Mebane,  N.  C. 

WAFFLES   WITH   RASPBERRY    JAM. 

Take  1  pint  milk,  2  cups  flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  melted  but- 
ter or  lard,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of 


90  BATTER  BREADS 

salt,  mix  thoroughly  together  and  stir  until  very  smooth. 
Bake  on  hot  irons  until  brown.  Serve  with  raspberry  jam 
or  any  jelly  desired. 

KICE    WAFFLES. 

Make  a  smooth  batter  of  1  quart  soft-fcoiled  rice,  1^2  pints 
sweet  milk,  1  pound  flour,  6  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  1  spoonful  syrup,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

QUICK  WAFFLES. 

One  pint  flour,  ll/o  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  pint  milk. — Mrs.  Jas.  B.  Doan. 

WAFFLES. 

Sift  I1/*}  cups  flour  into  a  bowl,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
and  y%  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  up  2  eggs,  add  1^  cups  milk 
to  them,  then  add  gradually  to  the  flour,  mix  in  1  heaping 
tablespoon  melted  butter.  Fry  on  a  hot,  well-greased  waffle 
iron.     Serve  hot  with  syrup. 

One-half  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  scant 
tablespoon  butter,  melted,  l/o  teaspoon  salt,  1  heaping  cup 
flour,  sifted  twice,  2  eggs,  i/o  teaspoon  sugar.  Place  flour 
in  bowl,  make  well  in  center  and  put  in  sugar  and  salt.  Dis- 
solve yeast  in  the  milk  and  mix  all  thoroughly ;  then  add  eggs 
1  at  a  time  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  butter  and  mix  well. 
Set  to  rise  for  about  40  minutes.  When  light  bake  on  a 
well-greased  waffle  iron. 


PASTRY 


PASTRY. 


Three-fourth  pound  butter,  1  pound  flour,  milk  enough 
to  moisten  so  as  to  roll  easily.  Use  spoon  for  mixing. — 
Mrs.  J  as.  R.  Down. 

FLAKY    PIE    CRUST. 

One  cup  Snowdrift,  3  cups  flour,  i/o  teaspoon  salt,  ^  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Sift  salt,  baking  powder  and  flour; 
add  Snowdrift  and  cut  in  with  a  knife.  Use  hands  as  little 
as  possible.  Mix  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
The  secret  of  good  pastry  is  little  handling  and  to  keep  cool. 

PASTRY  FOR  TWO  CUSTARD  PIES. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  sifted  flour;  *4  teaspoon  baking 
powder;  ^4  teaspoon  salt;  1-3  cup  shortening  (either  lard  or 
butter  or  a  mixture  of  the  two).     Cold  water  to  moisten. 

Sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  (if  used). 
With  a  knife  cut  in  the  shortening.  Add  the  cold  water  a 
little  at  a  time  and  with  a  knife  stir  the  mixture  to  a  paste. 

Be  careful  not  to  add  more  water  than  is  needed  to  moisten 
the  mixture  sufficiently.     Roll  and  line  the  pie  tins. 

For  custard  pies  prick  the  crust  carefully  with  a  fork-  to 
allow  all  air  to  escape  and  prevent  blisters.  Put  the  crust 
into  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  nearly  done,  but  not  brown. 
Remove  and  fill  at  once  with  the  custard  mixture. 

PASTRY    FOR    PIES. 

To  1  quart  flour  add  %  teaspoon  salt,  a  cup  of  lard  or 
butter.  Mix  well  by  rubbing  through  the  hands  or  chopping 
with  a  knife.  Make  into  a.  very  stiff  dough  with  ice  water, 
working  as  little  as  possible.  If  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 
is  added  l/o  the  above  quantity  of  lard  will  be  sufficient. 


PIES 


LEMON"    PIES. 


One  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  3  eggs,  grated,  rind  and 
juice  of  1  lemon,  sugar  to  taste.  Beat  butter  and  light 
tablespoon  flour  (sifted).  This  quantity  baked  on  rich  pastry 
makes  1  good  size  pie. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 


JELLY  CUSTARDS. 

Five  eggs,  l/o  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  jelly 
(warmed).     Makes  3  pies. — Mrs.  R.  L.  Wester. 

CHOCOLATE   PIE. 

One  tablespoon  of  grated  chocolate,  1  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Let  it  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  then  take  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  6  tablespoons  of  sugar; 
stir  this  together  and  boil  until  thick  like  boiled  custard. 
Make  a  crust  as  for  pies ;  cook  it,  then  put  in  the  boiled  choco- 
late. Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  cover  the 
top  and  brown.— Mrs.  0.  P.  Shell. 

SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD. 

One  pint  mashed  steamed  potatoes,  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
cup  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  %  teaspoon  baking 
powder  added  in  last  minute.  Flavor  with  nutmeg. — Mrs. 
W.  E.  Moss. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  Y±  cake  Walter  Baker's 
chocolate,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk  or  cream, 
1  tablespoon  corn  starch,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cook  until 
thick,  pour  on  crusts  and  bake.  Beat  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
stiff  froth,  add  3  tablespoons  of  pulverized  sugar.  Whip 
this  in  well,  spread  on  pies  and  brown  slightly.  This  makes 
3  pies. — Mrs.  I.  R.  Bass. 


PIES  93 


APPLE   PIE. 


Three  tart  apples,  %  cup  sugar,  %  lemon  rind  grated. 
Peel,  core  and  slice  apples  very  thin ;  line  pie-plate  with 
paste;  put  in  apples,  sugar  and  little  water;  wet  the  edges, 
cover  with  paste  rolled  out  very  thin ;  wash  with  milk.  Bake 
in  steady,  moderate  oven  25  minutes,  or  till  apples  are  cooked. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE. 

One  pint  of  buttermilk,  l^/o  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  4  eggs.  Flavor  with  nutmeg 
and  lemon.     Bake  with  lower  crust. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Powell. 

EHTJBAEB   PIE. 

Have  ready  3  cups  rhubarb  cut  in  ^4-inch  pieces,  and  over 
these  pour  boiling  water.  Bring  them  quickly  to  boiling 
point,  then  drain  off  the  water.  Mix  together  1  cup  sugar, 
1/2  teaspoon  salt,  14  cup  corn  starch.  Pass  twice  through  a 
sieve.  Stir  this  mixture  through  the  rhubarb,  turn  the 
whole  into  a  plate  lined  with  pastry.  Put  in  a  few  bits  of 
putter  here  and  there,  brush  the  edge  of  the  pastry  with 
cold  water  and  press  firmly  upon  it  a  cover  of  paste.  Brush 
the  two  edges  with  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE. 

Cream  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  stir  in  2  cups 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  1  of  milk  and  1 
of  vinegar,  4  well-beaten  eggs.  This  makes  2  pies. — Mrs. 
J.  T.  Jones. 

PUMPKIN   PIE. 

1  pint  pumpkin  (strained),  1  quart  milk,  pinch  salt,  4 
eggs  (well  beaten),  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter  (small), 
1  teaspoon  ginger,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Mix  the  pump- 
kin, spices,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Boil  the  milk  and 
add  the   butter ;   pour  over  the   pumpkin  mixture.     Then, 


94  PIES 

last  of  all,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs.     This  makes  three  large 
pie. 

PINEAPPLE  CUSTARDS. 

Two  eggs  beaten  real  light,  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg, 
1  large  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  *4  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  and  1  small  can  of  grated  pineapple. — Mrs. 
J  as.  R.  Rankin. 

PINEAPPLE  PIES. 

One  small  can  grated  pineapple,  5  eggs,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, 1  cup  sugar.  Reserve  4  whites  for  meringue.  This 
makes  2  pies. — Mrs.  Julia  Thomas. 

LEMON  PIES. 

Two  lemons,  ^4  pound  butter,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks,  lemon  rind  grated  and 
juice,  1/2  cup  water,  white  of  1  egg,  filling  for  1  pie; 
meringue  on  top. — Miss  Helen  Tull,  Philadelphia. 

MINCE   MEAT   PIES. 

One  pound  lean  beef  cooked  until  tender,  chopped  fine, 
1  pound  suet  chopped  fine,  2  pounds  raisins,  1  pound  cur- 
rants, 6  nice  large  apples  (chopped),  cinnamon,  cloves,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  pint  brandy  and  1  pint  of  sherry  wine;  some 
use  1  fresh  lemon. 

MOLASSES   PIE. 

Three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  y%  CUP 
good  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  1  cup  sour 
cream  or  milk,  teaspoon  soda  stirred  in  molasses;  whites 
mixed  in  last,  or  reserve  2  whites  for  meringue.  Bake  slowly 
in  moderate  oven.  Nutmeg  gives  a  nice  flavor.  This  quan- 
tity makes  1  pie.  Another  i/o  cup  molasses  may  be  added 
with  teaspoon  corn  starch ;  makes  sufficient  for  2  pies  baked 
on  rich  crust. — Mrs.  Jos.  T.  Jones. 


PIES  95 


MOLASSES  CUSTARDS. 


Beat  together  4  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar.  Cook  1  cup  mo- 
lasses and  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg.  Pour  together,  beat 
well,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Spread  on  pastry  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  D.  Y.  Cooper. 


MOLASSES  PIE. 


Four  eggs,  beaten  separately;  1  cupful  brown  sugar,  2 
tablespoonfuls  butter;  !/2  nutmeg,  grated;  beat  well  together 
and  stir  in  1%  teacupfuls  of  molasses,  add  well-beaten  whites 
of  eggs  last.     Bake  on  crusts. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Teague. 


CARAMEL  CUSTARDS. 

Four  eggs,  1  glass  of  jelly,  ^o  CUP  of  swet  milk,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  2  teaspoons  of  flour, 
beat  and  bake  in  short  paste  crust,  with  or  without  meringue. 
— Mrs.  I.  C.  Rowland. 

CARAMEL  PIES. 

Three  cups  brown  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1 
tablespoon  of  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  This  quantity 
makes  3  pies.  Meringue  improves  them. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Alder- 
man. 

COCOANUT   CUSTARD. 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  1 
cup  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  packages  cocoanut, 
flavor  with  vanilla;  enough  for  two  custards. — Mrs.  R.  L. 
Wester. 

COCOANUT  PIE.  \ 

Pour  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  milk,  y±  cup  of 
cream,  2  tablespoons  of  corn  starch,  2  eggs,  %  of  a  cocoanut, 
y<%  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Grate  the  cocoanut,  scald  the  milk, 
beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  light  with  the  sugar,  add  the  corn 
starch  and  mix  with  the  scalded  milk.     Cook  and  stir  until 


96  PIES 

it  thickens ;  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  cream  and  the  cocoa- 
nut  and  put  away  until  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff,  dry  froth ;  add  to  the  custard  with  the  vanilla.  Bake 
the  bottom  crust,  brush  it  over  with  the  white  of  eggs,  put 
in  the  custard  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Let  the  pie  cool 
before  serving. 

STEAMED    CUP    CUSTAKDS. 

Heat  1  quart  of  milk  until  it  steams.  Meanwhile  beat 
4  eggs,  add  %  cupful  of  sugar  and  %  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Stir  in,  slowly,  the  hot  milk.  Strain  the  mixture  into  a 
pitcher  and  pour  it  into  cups.  Set  these  in  a  steamer.  Cover 
the  steamer  with  cheesecloth  and  then  with  its  own  cover. 
Put  it  over  gently  boiling  water  and  allow  it  to  cook  for  10 
minutes  or  more.  Test  when  the  custards  are  done  iby 
shaking  the  steamer  a  little,  to  see  if  the  custards  are  no 
longer  liquid.  As  soon  as  they  are  barely  set,  lift  off  the 
steamer,  remove  the  cups  and  serve  ice-cold.  A  little  nut- 
meg grated  over  the  top  before  serving  improves  them. 

CUSTAKD   FOR   ONE   PIE. 

Two  eggs,  Yg  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  l1/?  cups 
milk,  nutmeg,  Beat  together  the  eggs,  sugar  and  salt.  Add 
the  tboiling  milk  to  the  egg  and  sugar  mixture  a  little  at  a  time. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  fill  the  crust.  This  mixture  should  be 
ready  to  put  in  the  crust  when  it  first  comes  from  the  oven.  If 
the  crust  is  allowed  to  cool  off  the  custard  mixture  will  soak 
into  the  crust  and  perhaps  into  the  bottom  of  the  tin.  This 
pie  differs  from  the  usual  method  of  making  custard  pie  in 
that  the  crust  is  nearly  done  before  the  custard  is  put  in  and 
the  custard  is  made  of  hot  milk.  Always  add  the  hot  milk 
to  the  egg  mixture,  the  reverse  produces  a  curdled  custard. 

DAMSON  PIE. 

One  cup  damson  preserves,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  5 
eggs,  beaten  separately,  %  pint  cream.  Cook  on  a  rich 
pastry. — Mrs.  Jane  E.    Young. 


PIES  97 

CREAM    PIE. 

Four  eggs,  beaten  separately;  to  yolks  add  4  tablespoons 
sugar  and  4  tablespoons  flour,  to  which  1  teaspoonf  ul  powder 
has  been  put.  Then  fold  in  whites,  bake  in  2  layers,  2-3 
pint  cream,  %  cup  sugar,  vanilla  beaten  stiff  and  put  be- 
tween.— Mrs.  S.  F.  Teiser. 

CREAM   PRUNE   PIE. 

Soak  and  stew  a  pound  of  prunes.  Press  through  a  colan- 
der, adding  just  enough  juice  to  moisten  well.  To  each  cupful 
of  the  pulp  add  1  cupful  of  rich  cream,  the  beaten  yolks  of 
4  eggs,  and  1-3  of  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Line  pie  plate  with 
good  pastry  and  partly  bake.  Then  fill  it  with  the  prune 
mixture,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven.  Cover  with  a  meringue, 
return  to  the  oven  and  slowly  brown. 

CHESS  PIE. 

Twelve  yolks  eggs,  1  pound  of  sugar,  %  pound  of  butter ; 
i  meringue  on  top. — Mrs.  R.  L.  Wester. 

CHESS  PIE. 

Cream  together  %  of  a  cup  of  white  sugar  and  2  table- 
spoons of  butter.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  light  and  stir  into 
this  cream.  Add  the  juice  and  half  the  grated  peel  of  a 
lemon  and  whip  all  together  for  2  minutes.  Fill  crusts  of 
puff  paste  with  this  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  When  done 
add  the  meringue,  made  of  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and  3 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  brown  quickly  in  oven. — Mrs, 
W.  B.  Waddill         MO0K  CHEREY  pIEi 

One  cup  cranberries  cut  in  halves,  ^  cup  seeded  raisins, 
11  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  y2  cup  hot  water,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.     Bake  between  2  crusts. — Mrs.  W.  8.  Thomson. 

FLAP-JACKS. 

Take  well-seasoned  stewed  fruit  and  put  on  circles  of 
pastry,  double  over  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Miss  Leah  Perry. 

—7 


PUDDINGS 


MOLASSES    PUDDING. 


One-half  cup  molasses,  4  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1-3 
cup  milk,  2  eggs,  IV2  cups  flour,  y*  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup 
raisins.  Steam  in  3  baking-powder  tins  placed  in  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water  iy2  bours.  Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  J.  D. 
Blanton,  Marion,,  N.  C. 

MOLASSES  PUDDING. 

One  egg,  iy>  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  y>  cup 
buttermilk,  y>  teaspoon  soda,  1  pint  flour,  small  piece  of 
lard  and  butter ;  season  with  ginger. — Mrs.  B.  L.  Wester. 

JERUSALEM   PUDDING. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  ^  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  pint  of 
cream  y±  pound  dates,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Cover  the 
gelatine  with  y>  cup  of  cold  water  and  soak  ^  hour.  Stone 
the  dates  and  chop  them  fine.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  several 
oranges  over  them  and  mash.  Whip  the  cream  and  stand  in 
a  pan  of  cold  water  or  cracked  ice.  Add  the  dates ;  sprinkle 
over  this  the  sugar  and  add  the  vanilla.  Put  the  gelatine 
over  hot  water  and  when  dissolved  add  to  it  the  cream  and 
stir  the  mixture  continuously  until  the  whole  is  well  mixed 
and  becomes  thick.  Turn  at  once  into  a  mould  and  keep  in 
a  cool  place.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  A  few  almonds 
added  just  before  serving  adds  a  great  deal  to  the  pudding. — 
Mrs.  8.  P.  Cooper. 

BERRY  PUDDING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  milk,  3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2 
eggs,  beaten  separately,  1  pint  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Put  half  batter  in  the  pan,  cover  with  a  quart  of 
berries  or  2  quarts  of  cherries  or  chopped  apples,  seeded; 
add  rest  of  batter;  bake  %  of  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with  hard 
sauce  or  liquid  sauce. — Mrs.  Herbert  Tull,  Philadelphia. 


PUDDINGS  99 


TRANSPARENT    PUDDING. 


Beat  8  eggs  very  light,  add  i/o  pound  of  powdered  loaf 
sugar,  same  quantity  of  butter,  melted,  %  nutmeg,  grated; 
set  on  stove  and  stir  until  thick  as  batter.  Pour  into  shallow 
dishes  lined  with  paste.  Bake  %  hour  in  moderate  oven. — 
Mrs.  Zollicoffer. 

DELICIOUS    PUDDING. 

Five  eggs ;  to  the  yolks  add  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  pint 
sweet  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  %  teaspoon  of  salt ; 
then  stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites.  Cook  quickly  in  a  well- 
buttered  baking  dish.     Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  Alex.  Cheek. 

CHOCOLATE   PUDDING. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  pint  milk,  i/o  CUP  sugar,  ^  cup  grated 
chocolate,  1  heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  chocolate,  sugar,  corn  starch 
and  salt  with  1  cup  of  the  milk.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  light 
and  add  to  the  mixture;  then  add  remainder  of  milk.  Cook 
till  thick,  pour  into  pudding  dish  and  when  cooled  a  little 
add  the  meringue  of  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  3 
tablespoons  sugar,  and  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Waddill. 

BAKED   CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Put  1-3  cup  of  corn  starch  into  a  saucepan,  stir  in  1  cup 
cold  milk  and  1  teaspoon  salt ;  add  3  cups  of  scalded  milk ;  mix 
until  it  thickens,  then  add  2  ounces  chocolate  and  stir  vigor- 
ously while  the  chocolate  melts.  Cover  and  cook  10  minutes, 
remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  with 
]1/2  CUP  °f  sugar,  and  add  %  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  or  1 
teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Turn  the  preparation  into  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish,  dot  the  top  of  it  here  and  there  with 
little  bits  of  currant  jelly,  spread  a  meringue  over  the  whole 
and  color  a  delicious  brown  in  the  oven.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 
!3Tor  the  meringue,  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  until  dry,  then 
gradually  beat   into   them    3    level   tablespoons   granulated 


100  PUDDINGS 

sugar,  then  cut  and  fold  in  3  extra  level  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
After  the  meringue  has  been  spread  over  the  pudding  dredge 
it  lightly  with  sugar  and  proceed  as  above. 

PRUNE    PUDDING. 

Soak  y2  pound  of  prunes  and  stew  them  until  they  are  very- 
soft.  Remove  the  seed  and  beat  the  prunes  until  they  are 
light,  and  sweeten  with  !/o  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  and  fold  into  the  prunes.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pan 
about  20  or  30  minutes.  To  be  eaten  with  a  custard  sauce 
made  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  into  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk  and  ^>  cup  of  sugar. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Horner. 

PRUNE    PUDDING. 

One  pound  prunes,  stewed,  mashed  and  sweetened.  Beat 
the  whites  of  6  eggs  and  gradually  beat  in  the  prunes.  Bake 
until  brown  in  pudding  dish.  Serve  cold  with  boiled  custard 
made  of  1  quart  milk,  yolks  of  6  eggs,  1  cup  sugar  (small). 
Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

RICE   PUDDING. 

One-half  cup  rice,  1%  pints  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  large 
pinch  salt,  1  tablespoon  lemon  rind  chopped  fine.  Put  rice, 
washed  and  picked,  sugar,  salt  and  milk  in  quart  pudding 
dish.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  2  hours,  stirring  frequently 
first  11/2  hours,  then  permit  it  to  finish  cooking  with  light- 
colored  crust,  disturbing  it  no  more.     Eat  cold  with  cream. 

HANOVER  PUDDING. 

Three  cups  flour,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup 
molasses,  ^  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  ounce 
soda.  Pour  into  mould  and  boil  3  hours.  Eat  with  sauce. — 
Mrs.  Missillier. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Peel  and  slice  5  oranges  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Heat 
1  pint  milk  and  1  tablespoon  corn  starch  wet  with  cold  milk, 


PUDDINGS  101 

a  little  salt  and  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
and  let  cool.  Cover  the  oranges  with  the  custard.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  with  Yo  cup  sugar  and  spread  on  top. — Mrs. 
W.  D.  Horner. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  fruit,  sweetened.     Let  it  come  to  a  boil.    Mix 

1  pint  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
with  a  fork,  drop  into  the  fruit,  cover  tight,  slip  to  back  of 
stove  and  let  cook  slowly.  It  will  be  ready  in  Y2  hour.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce. — Mrs.  L.  B.  Oooch. 

FRUIT   PUDDING. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  the  juice  of  1  can  pine- 
apple, juice  of  1  lemon,  i/o  box  gelatine  that  has  been  dis- 
solved in  i/o  cup  cold  water.  Let  come  to  a  scald  and  pour 
over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Cut  the  pineapple  into 
small  pieces,  add  y%  pound  malaga  grapes  halved  and  seeded. 
Arrange  the  fruit  in  mould,  pour  the  liquid  gelatine  over  it 
and  let  congeal.  Serve  with  a  dressing  made  bj  cooking  to  a 
soft  custard  1  pint  milk,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  sugar  and  vanilla 
to  taste.  Drop  flecks  of  whipped  cream  over  the  top,  ^  cup 
sugar.     This  is  fine. 

CHEAP   PLUM   PUDDING. 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  2  cups  raisins  or  any  fruit,  1  cup 
molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  dessertspoon  soda,  4  cups  flour, 
any  spices  you  like.  Mix  and  steam  4  or  5  hours;  salt  to 
taste.     Serve  hot  with  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  Cora  Phelps. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  pound  butter,  1  pound  sifted  bread  crumbs,  1  pound 
sugar,  8  eggs,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  currants,  y2  citron, 

2  tablespoons  each  cinnamon,  spice,  cloves,  2  nutmegs,  1 
glass  brandy,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Steam  5  hours  in  double 
boiler  and  serve  with  hard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. — Mrs. 
R.  J.  Corbitt. 


102  PUDDINGS 

bird's  nest  pudding. 

Peel  and  core  enough  apples  to  fill  a  pudding  dish,  fill 
centers  with  raisins,  currants  and  citron;  flavor  with  cinna- 
mon, and  after  sprinkling  with  sugar,  pour  in  water  and  let 
bake,  not  too  soft.  When  done  make  a  sponge  cake  batter, 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  on  top.  Let  this  bake,  then 
serve  with  any  good,  rich  sauce. 

DELMONICO    PUDDING. 

Make  a  rich  custard  of  1  quart  of  milk  and  yolks  of  8 
eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  spoon  of  vanilla ;  take  the  whites  and 
beat  very  stiff,  adding  a  little  sugar  and  vanilla ;  put  this  over 
the  custard  and  put  in  oven  for  a  few  minutes  until  light 
brown.  Whipped  cream  adds  very  much  to  it. — Mrs.  P.  T. 
Jones. 

DELMONICO    PUDDING. 

Five  eggs,  separate  them,  beat  yolks  well  and  add  4  table- 
spoons sugar  and  4  tablespoons  corn  starch;  have  1  quart 
sweet  milk  on  fire  in  double  boiler;  stir  in  the  above  and 
cook  until  it  thickens ;  pour  in  buttered  pan ;  spread  the 
beaten  whites  with  sugar  to  taste,  on  top,  and  put  in  oven 
until  a  light  brown.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs. 
Cora  Phelps. 

SNOW    PUDDING. 

Dissolve  %  box  of  gelatine  in  1%  cups  cold  water.  Then 
add  \y=z  cups  boiling  water,  juice  of  2  lemons,  add  3  cups 
granulated  sugar.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  set 
away.  When  it  begins  to  jelly  whip  with  an  egg-beater  until 
perfectly  light,  then  add  the  whites  of  5  eggs  beaten  stiff,  to 
which  has  been  added  a  pinch  of  salt.  Whip  well  together. 
If  desired  different  sorts  of  fruit  can  be  added  (before  it  gets 
too  stiff.)  Set  away  until  hard.  Serve  with  boiled  cus- 
tard, sauce  or  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Geo.  B.  Harris. 


PUDDINGS  103 


COTTAGE   PUDDING. 


One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  cups  cream,  1  pint  flour,  \y2 
teaspoons  powder  Beat  the  eggs,  and  sugar  together;  add 
cream,  flour  with  the  powder  sifted  in,  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
mix  into  smooth  batter  as  for  cup-cake.  Put  into  long  nar- 
row or  oval  buttered  mould ;  bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes. 
Serve  with  liquid  or  foaming  sauce. 

APPLE    SNOW. 

Core,  quarter  and  steam  3  large,  sour  apples.  Rub  through 
sieve,  cool ;  whip  whites  3  eggs  to  very  stiff  froth  with  y2  cup 
powdered  sugar,  gradually  add  apple  and  whip  long  time 
till  white  and  stiff.     Pile  in  dish,  garnish  with  dots  currant 

jelly. 

APPLE   PUDDING    (ENGLISH). 

Twelve  or  14  apples,  peeled,  cored  and  sliced;  1  teaspoon 
extract  nutmeg,  iy2  cups  sugar.  Line  earthenware  pudding 
mould  with  paste,  pack  in  apples,  sugar  and  extract ;  wet 
edges ;  cover,  pinch  edges  together  firmly ;  place  in  saucepan 
y2  full  boiling  water. 

CARAMEL   PUDDING. 

One  pint  milk  scalding  hot,  stir  into  the  yolks  2  eggs 
beaten  with  2  heaping  tablespoons  brown  sugar  and  1  heaping 
tablespoon  corn  starch;  stir  until  well  mixed;  flavor  with  a 
few  drops  almond.  Pour  into  a  dish,  and  cover  with 
meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  2  tablespoons 
brown  sugar;  brown  in  oven. 


SAUCES 

"WINE    SAUCE. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  of  foiling  water,  1  teaspoon  of 
flour,  1  egg,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Let  simmer  for 
10  minutes ;  remove  from  fire  and  add  1  wineglass  of  wine  or 
brandy. — Mrs.  Alex.  Cheek. 

wine  sauce. 

Two  ounces  of  butter,  2  spoons  of  flour,  !/%  pint  of  boiling 
water,  1  gill  of  Madeira  wine,  *4  pound  sugar,  %  grated 
nutmeg.  Mix  the  flour  and  butter  together,  pour  in  the  boil- 
ing water,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar  and 
wine.  Just  before  taking  off  add  the  nutmeg.  Serve  hot. — 
Mrs.  Zollicoffer. 

HARD   SAUCE. 

Beat  1  cup  sugar  and  *4  cup  butter  to  white  cream;  add 
tablespoon  brandy  and  teaspoon  extract  nutmeg;  put  on  ice 
until  needed. 

CKEAM   SAUCE. 

Bring  2-3  pint  cream  slowly  to  boil ;  set  in  stewpan  boiling 
water;  when  it  reaches  boiling  point  add  sugar,  then  pour 
slowly  on  whipped  whites  of  2  egg3  in  bowl ;  add  1  teaspoon 
extract  vanilla  and  use. 

CUSTAEJ)   SAUCE. 

One  pint  milk,  yolks  4  eggs,  %  cup  sugar.  Set  over  fire 
and  stir  until  thick. 

STRAWBERRY    SAUCE. 

Cream  %  cup  of  butter  with  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and 
1  egg  yolk.     Beat  in  gradually  1  cup  of  crushed  fruit  (straw- 


SAUCES  105 

berries,  raspberries,  peaches  or  cherries  may  be  used)  and 
serve  at  once.  Jam  or  preserved  fruit  may  be  substituted 
when  fresh  fruit  is  not  obtainable.  This  sauce  is  good  with 
almost  any  plain  pudding. — Mrs.  D.  H.  Mangum. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

Boil  together  for  5  minutes  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup 
water,  add  1  tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons 
of  cold  water;  stir  until  thickened  and  cook  for  5  minutes 
longer.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  2 
tablespoons  of  butter  and  stir  until  thoroughly  blended. 

SAUCE  FOE  SPONGE   CAKE. 

Whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  of  sugar,  V^  cup  melted 
butter  added  while  hot.  Flavor  with  wine. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Kit- 
trell. 

HOT   CHOCOLATE   SAUCE. 

One  cup  boiling  water,  pinch  salt,  1  square  chocolate,  ^ 
cup  sugar.  Cook  all  together  slowly  until  it  is  the  consist- 
ency of  maple  syrup,  or  thicker  if  desired.  Just  before  serv- 
ing, add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  This  will  keep  indefi- 
nitely, and  can  be  reheated. — Miss  Laurine  Dorsey. 

NOG  SAUCE. 

Beat  white  of  1  egg  until  stiff,  add  yolk  and  beat  again. 
Mix  y%  cup  milk,  and  %  cup  of  cream,  sweeten  with  4  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  add 
gradually  to  the  egg.  Mix  thoroughly,  flavor  with  a  tea- 
spoon vanilla  and  2  tablespoons  of  sherry,  and  it  is  ready 
to  serve. 

DRAWN  BUTTEE. 

One-third  cup  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour,  %  teaspoon 
salt,  Ys  teaspoon  pepper,  V/2  cups  hot  water.  Melt 
half    the    butter;    add    flour    mixed    with    seasoning    and 


106  SAUCES 

then  hot  water  gradually.  Boil  5  minutes  and  add  remaining 
butter  in  small  pieces.  Good  over  asparagus  or  boiled  celery. 
— Mrs.  C.  0.  Fountain. 

CURRANT    JELLY    SAUCE. 

This  sauce,  by  the  way,  is  delightful  for  roast  venison  or 
mutton.  Cook  together  in  a  small  saucepan  1  tablespoonful 
of  ibutter  and  1  teaspoonf  ul  of  onion.  At  the  end  of  5  min- 
utes add  1  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  stir  until  smooth.  Grad- 
ually add  1  gill  of  stock,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  the 
sauce  boils  up  add  a  V2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  Vs  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  small  bay  leaf,  a  clove 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly.  Simmer  5  minutes, 
strain  and  serve  hot. 

CHOCOLATE   SAUCE. 

One  cup  water,  1  cup  white  sugar,  ^4  pound  chocolate. 
Cook  until  thick,  and  remove  from  fire.  Add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Serve  hot  or  cold. — Mrs. 
Andrew  Harris. 


CAKES 

Cakes  are  of  two  general  classes.  First,  cakes  with  short- 
ening; second,  cakes  without  shortening  (sponge-cakes). 

If  you  wish  to  prevent  citron,  raisins  or  currants  from 
sinking  to  the  bottom  of  your  cake,  have  them  well  warmed 
in  oven  before  adding  them  to  the  batter. 

CAKES  WITH  SHORTENING. 

One  general  process  can  be  followed  in  making  these  cakes : 
(1)  Cream  Snowdrift;  (2)  add  sugar  gradually  and  cream; 
(3)  add  beaten  yolks  if  used;  (4)  mix  and  sift  dry  ingredi- 
ents; (5)  add  to  the  first  mixture,  alternating  with  the 
liquid;  (6)  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
stiff;  (7)  have  pans  ready,  put  into  oven  and  bake  according 
to  the  following  rule: 

TEST  FOE  OVEN. 

The  oven  is  hot  enough  if  it  will  brown  flour  in  5  minutes, 
or  if  you  can  hold  hand  in  oven  while  counting  20  slowly. 

TIME   OF  BAKING. 

Layer  cakes  require  from  20  to  25  minutes ;  loaf  cakes 
take  from  40  to  60  minutes.     Divide  time  into  quarters. 

First  quarter. — Cake  should  rise  on  sides. 

Second  quarter. — Cake  should  rise  in  center  and  specks  of 
brown  appear. 

Third  quarter. — Cake  should  brown  evenly  all  over. 

Fourth  quarter. — Cake  should  shrink  from  sides  of  pan 
and  settle. 

CARE   AFTER   BAKING. 

Turn  upside  down  on  a  cake  cooler  until  cool ;  then  re- 
move from  pan  and  lay  on  cooler.  Do  not  frost  until  cold. 
If  cake  sticks  lay  a  cloth  wet  in  cold  water  over  bottom  of 


108  CAKES 

pan.     (If  cake  should  be  burned,  burned  crust  may  be  re- 
moved with  a  grater. ) 

MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

One-half  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  flour,  1 
cup  milk,  7  eggs,  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

HARLEQUIN  CAKE. 

Cream  together  a  scant  cupful  of  butter  and  a  cupful  and  a 
half  of  sugar,  beating  in  3  eggs  that  have  been  whipped  to 
a  stiff  froth,  1  scant  cupful  of  milk  and  2  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  sifted  with  sufficient  flour  to  form  a 
batter  that  will  "ribbon"  from  the  spoon.  When  the  cake 
mixture  is  very  light,  divide  the  batter  into  three  parts,  flavor- 
ing one  with  %  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract;  another 
with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  grated  chocolate  that  has 
been  dissolved  over  hot  water;  and  the  third  with  a  little 
strawberry  syrup,  coloring  the  latter  with  a  few  drops  of 
pink  vegetable  dye,  which  is  entirely  harmless.  Have  in 
readiness  an  oblong  cake  tin  that  has  been  well  greased  and 
dusted  with  flour  and  pour  in  the  3  batters,  arranging  them  in 
layers,  or  as  for  marble  cake,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  for  about  35  minutes.  Ice  when  cold  with  thick  boiled 
frosting  and  decorate  with  holly. 

COMPOSITION  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  l1^  pounds  sugar,  1%  pounds  flour,  %  pound 
butter,  1  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  water,  1 
large  nutmeg,  %  glass  wine,  l1^  pound  raisins.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  together  part  of  milk,  1  egg  stirred  in  some 
flour,  and  so  on  until  eggs  are  used.  The  milk  and  flour,  then 
soda,  wine,  nutmeg  and  raisins.  Citron,  currants,  etc.,  may 
be  used. — Mrs.  Alex.  Cooper. 


CAKES  109 


WHITE    CAKE. 

One  pound  butter  (heaping),  1  pound  flour.,  1  pound  sugar, 
whites  of  18  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  pinch  salt; 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  bake  in  loaf.  Make  a  boiled 
icing  of  3  cups  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Jenkins. 

WHITE    CAKE. 

Eleven  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  beaten,  iy2  cups  sifted  pow- 
dered sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  *4  teaspoon 
salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix  flour,  sugar,  cream  tartar,  salt 
and  sift  3  times  before  mixing  with  eggs.  Set  in  stove 
quickly.  Cook  in  biscuit  pan  and  use  boiling  icing. — Mrs. 
R.  M.  Andrews. 

PECAN    CAKE. 

ISTine  eggs,  21/4  pints  sugar,  1^  cups  butter,  3  pints  flour, 
1  tumbler  whiskey,  %  tumbler  New  Orleans  molasses,  %  tea- 
spoonful  soda  mixed  in  molasses,  4^4  tumblers  pecans,  IV2 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  2^  pounds  raisins,  1  nutmeg. 
Bake  2  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  Use  thickest  pan  possible  with 
a  steam  in  middle. — Miss  Helen  Tull,  Philadelphia. 

SALLY  WHITE   CAKE. 

Make  a  batter  as  for  pound  cake ;  add  2  grated  cocoanuts, 
1%  pounds  citron,  cut  fine,  2  pounds  almonds,  cut  fine  and 
mixed  with  citron  and  cocoanut,  wineglass  brandy,  %  tea- 
spoon mace,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  rose-water. 
Bake  as  other  fruit  cake. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Cooper. 

WHITE  FETJIT  CAKE. 

Sugar,  1  pound;  butter  1  pound;  flour,  1  pound;  almonds, 
1  pound;  cherries,  1  pound;  citron,  1  pound;  1  cocoanut 
(ground);  whites  12  eggs;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. — 
Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 


110  CAKES 


FRUIT    CAKE. 


One  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  citron,  1 
pound  raisins,  2  pounds  currants,  %  pound  chopped  al- 
monds, grated  peel  of  1  orange,  grated  peel  of  1  lemon,  1 
gill  sherry,  1  gill  brandy,  yolks  of  12  eggs,  whites  of  6  eggs, 
1  pound  sifted  flour  (warm  and  dry),  1  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  2  teaspoons 
rose-water.  Prepare  fruit  a  day  before  making  cake  so  that 
it  may  soak  in  brandy  and  sherry.  Rub  butter  and  sugar 
together,  sprinkle  flour  over  the  fruit;  beat  eggs  separately; 
mix  as  in  other  cakes ;  line  pan  with  paper,  and  bake  slowly 
for  4  hours.  Wrap  in  a  cloth  wet  in  whiskey  and  put  in  an 
earthen  jar  and  it  will  keep  moist  for  a  year  or  longer. — 
Mrs.  N.  P.  Strause. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

One  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  flour,  1 
pound  almonds,  12  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  pound  of  cut 
citron,  3  pounds  raisins,  1  pound  figs,  2  pounds  currants,  % 
pint  wine  and  brandy  mixed,  tablespoon  cinnamon,  4  grated 
nutmegs,  ^2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  allspice.  Mix  fruits 
and  flour  to  keep  from  sinking.  Bake  slowly  for  4  hours. — 
Mrs.  J.  T.  Alderman. 

CHEAP    FRUIT    CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  %  cup  molasses,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2 
cups  flour,  1  pound  raisins,  extra  flour  to  flour  them,  cin- 
namon, spice  and  nutmeg. — Mrs.  Cora  Phelps. 

RAISIN  COFFEE  CAKE. 

Add  to  1  cup  of  scalded  milk  1-3  cup  of  shortening,  1 
cup  sugar,  and  a  scant  %  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When  luke- 
warm,  beat  in  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  quarter  cup  of 
lukewarm  milk  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  thor- 
oughly,   cover,    and   place   where   it   will   keep   warm   over 


CAKES  111 

night.  In  the  morning,  blend  a  beaten  egg  with  the  dough, 
add  a  half  cnp  of  seeded  raisins  and  roll  the  mixture  on  a 
floured  board  to  %.  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Put  into  a  but- 
tered biscuit  pan,  cover,  and  let  it  rise  until  it  doubles  its 
bulk.  Brush  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  half  an 
hour.  This  bread  may  be  baked  in  a  ring,  if  preferred,  by 
putting  the  dough  into  a  deep  pie  plate,  having  in  its  center 
a  well  greased  muffin  ring  or  a  piece  of  stiff  brown  paper 
fastened  together  to  make  a  circle. 

COFFEE   CAKE  WITH  RAISINS. 

This  is  a  splendid  recipe  for  coffee  cake  with  raisins,  and 
citron,  too,  if  desired:  One  egg  2  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 
1  cupful  of  lard  or  shortening,  1  cupful  of  coffee,  1  teaspoon 
ful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  coffee,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, 1  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  %  pound  of  raisins  rolled  in 
flour.     Flour  to  make  ordinarily  stiff.     Bake  about  an  hour. 

ANGELS^   FOOD. 

Whites  of  12  eggs  beaten  to  stiff  froth,  12  ounces  pulver- 
ized suger,  5  ounces  flour  sifted  4  or  5  times ;  put  1  teaspoon 
cream  of  tartar  in  flour.  Add  to  the  whites  after  beating 
pulverized  sugar  and  flour  very  slowly,  beating  all  the  time, 
then  add  vanilla  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  50 
minutes.  Cover  cake  with  boiled  icing.  This  is  a  good 
recipe.  — Mrs.  H.  Strause. 

ANGELS''   FOOD. 

One  cupful  of  whites  of  fresh  eggs,  2  level  teaspoonfuls 
cream  of  tartar,  1  1-3  cups  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  1  cup 
flour,  pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Sift  the  sugar 
and  put  it  in  the  end  of  a  platter.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  stiff  and  white,  and  place  at  other  end  of  platter,  with 
cream  of  tartar  beaten  into  them.      Slowly  beat  eggs  into 


112  CAKES 

the  sugar.  The  sugar  should  be  sifted  five  times  and  the 
flour  five  times  after  it  is  measured.  Cut  this  lightly  into 
eggs  and  sugar.  Add  the  vanilla  last.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

APPLE    SAUCE    CAKE. 

One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  y^  cup  butter,  1  cup  raisins,  ^4 
spoon  spices,  1  cup  nuts,  1  cup  apple  sauce  (unsweetened),  1 
level  spoon  soda,  1  2-3  cups  flour. — Mrs.  J.  N.  Cole,  Raleigh, 

N.  C. 

SUNSHINE   CAKE. 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  yolks  of  5,  1*4  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 

1  cup  flour,  1-3  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  pinch  salt  in  whites 
of  eggs  before  whipping.  Flavor  to  taste.  Sift  and  measure 
flour  and  sugar.  Put  whites  in  mixing  bowl,  whip  well,  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  whip  again  very  stiff;  then  add  sugar, 
yolks  well  beaten.  Fold  in  the  flour.  Put  in  a  very  mod- 
erate oven  and  rbake  about  40  minutes. — Miss  Julia  M. 
Cooper. 

PORK    CAKE. 

Three-fourths  pound  of  pork  chopped  fine ;  pour  over  this  2 
cups  boiling  water  and  let  stand  until  cold ;  2  cups  sugar,  1 
cup  molasses,  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice, 
mace,  wineglass  brandy,  tablespoon  soda,  2  pounds  raisins, 

2  pounds  currants,  %  pound  citron,  5  cups  sifted  flour.  Mix 
and  bake  as  fruit  cake. — Mrs.  James  Cooper. 

COCOANUT   LOAF    CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  14  cupful  of  cocoanut,  1  cupful 
of  milk,  2  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  egg,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Add  the  cocoanut 
last  and  cook  y<%  hour  in  quick  oven. — Miss  Mary  Perry. 

PINEAPPLE   DUTCH    CAKE. 

Make  a  batter  of  3  eggs,  %  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour, 
1  cup  of  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of 


CAKES  113 

milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Then  take  1  can  of  pineapple 
chopped  fine,  add  cup  of  sugar.  Make  a  layer  of  pineapple, 
then  a  layer  of  cake  batter.  When  cold  serve  with  whipped 
cream  and  maraschino  cherries.  (Stewed  apples  may  be 
used  in  same  way  as  pineapple.) — Mrs.  J.  E.  C.  Bell. 

SPICE    CAKE. 

1^/2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  5  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  ground  cloves,  3  tea- 
poons  ground  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice.  Reserve  4 
whites  of  the  5  eggs  for  icing.  Mix  balance  and  bake  as 
for  jelly  cake.  Boiled  Icing. — To  4  cups  sugar  put  1  cup 
boiling  water  and  boil  until  it  becomes  almost  candy  when 
dropped  in  water.  Pour  over  the  well-beaten  whites,  beating 
all  the  time.  Season.  When  cool  enough  spread  between 
layers. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Hunt. 

GINGER    BREAD. 

4  cups  sifted  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  butter  or  lard,  1 
cup  brown  sugar,  2  cups  molasses,  1  cup  raisins,  2  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  ginger,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg,  2  tea- 
spoons soda,  1/2  teaspoon  cloves,  i/o  teaspoon  spice. — Mrs. 
J.  L.  H.  Missillier. 

GINGER    BREAD. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  pinch  salt,  1  cup  milk, 
2  eggs,  1  cup  lard  and  butter,  mixed,  2  tablespoons  ginger,  1 
tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  soda,  3  cups  flour  or 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  about 
%  of  an  hour. — Miss  Julia  M.  Cooper. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

Three  eggs,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  des- 
sertspoon soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  buttermilk,  1  cup  molasses 


114  CAKES 

2  tablespoons  ginger,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  cinna- 
mon. Bake  in  quick  oven  in  sheets  or  gem  pans. — Mrs. 
George  Harris. 

GINGER    BREAD. 

One  cup  of  molasses  or  syrup,  1  cup  of  sugar,  3  cups  of 
flour,  y<z  cup  of  butter,  2  spoons  of  baking  powder,  1  table- 
spoon of  ginger,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of 
spice,  3  eggs,  beat  thoroughly,  and  bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.     Serve  with  brandy  or  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  P.  T.  Jones. 

GINGER    BREAD. 

Five  cups  of  flour,  3  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  milk,  1 
cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  1  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  4  eggs. — Mrs.  Alex.  Cheek. 

POUND    CAKE. 

Yolks  of  12  eggs,  well  beaten,  add  1  pound  of  white  sugar, 
14  ounces  butter  creamed,  1  pound  of  sifted  flour;  then  the 
12  whites  beaten  and  added  last;  flavor.  Bake  slowly  1^ 
hours. — Mrs.  Betts. 

IMPERIAL   CAKE. 

One  pound  butter  and  1  of  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  1 
pound  flour,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  9  eggs, 
1^4  pounds  almonds  before  they  are  cracked,  ^  pound  citron, 
1/2  pound  raisins,  beat  the  yolks  light ;  add  sugar  and  butter, 
then  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  flour,  reserving 
a  part  for  the  fruit ;  and  lastly,  the  nuts,  blanched,  cut  fine 
and  mixed  with  fruit  and  the  rest  of  the  flour. — Mrs.  J.  D. 
Cooper. 

SPONGE   CAKE. 


Six  eggs,  beaten  separately,  1  pint  flour,  1  pound  sugar,  y2 
ass  of  cold  water.     Pour  water  over  sug£ 
until  suffar  is  dissolved. — Mrs.  Alex.  Cheek. 


glass  of  cold  water.     Pour  water  over  sugar  and  set  on  fire 


CAKES  115 


SPONGE    CAKE. 


Six  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour  with  2  teaspoons 
Royal  baking  powder  sifted  3  times,  y%  cup  cold  water. — 
Mrs.  W.  B.  Shaw. 


SOFT   CAKES. 

One-half  pound  of  butter,  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  of 
flour,  1  cup  sweet  milk  (substitute  water  for  milk  if  de- 
sirable), 5  eggs,  3  teaspoons  of  Royal  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  either  lemon  or  vanilla.  Sift  flour  and  yeast  powder 
together.  Fruit  can  jbe  used  with  recipe,  making  fruit  pound 
cake.     This  is  soft  pound  cake. — Mrs.  W.  L.  Harris. 

CHRISTMAS    CAKE. 

Three  pounds  of  raisins,  1  pound  currants,  l1/^  pounds  of 
citron,  1  pound  dates,  1  pound  crystalized  cherries,  14  pound 
figs,  V2  pound  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel,  1/2  pound 
pecans,  x/2  pound  English  walnuts,  l1/?  pounds  of  flour,  1 
pound  butter,  2  pounds  sugar,  li/o  dozen  eggs,  1  glass  of 
brandy,  1  nutmeg,  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  juice  of  2 
lemons  and  grated  rind  of  1.  Cream  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether, beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  and  add  to  batter ;  dredge 
fruit  with  some  of  the  flour.  Mix  slowly  with  well-beaten 
whites,  putting  in  brandy  last.  Sprinkle  cinnamon  on  fruit. 
Bake  slowly  for  6  hours. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

JELLY  ROLL. 

Three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  beat  whites  real  stiff,  1  cup 
of  brown  sugar,  stir  well,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Cook 
in  hot  oven. — Clara  Amos. 

MARBLE  CAKE. 

One  pound  each  of  sugar,  butter  and  flour,  the  whites  of 
16  eggs,  x/4  pound  chopped  almonds,  !/§  pound  citron.  Cream 
together  the  butter  and  flour,  beat  together  very  light  the 
egg  whites  and  sugar;  put  all  together  and  beat  thoroughly. 


116  CAKES 

Color  1-3  of  the  batter  with  pink  sugar.  Have  your  mould 
lined  with  oiled  paper;  put  in  a  layer  of  the  white  batter 
(%),  a  layer  of  citron  and  almonds,  then  the  colored  batter, 
another  layer  of  citron  and  almonds,  and  the  remainder  of 
white  batter ;  bake  in  moderate  oven.  I  pour  a  little  extract 
of  almonds  over  my  chopped  almonds,  and  flavor  the  cake 
with  any  flavoring  desired. — Mrs.  Henry  Perry. 

HOT  CAKE. 

1  egg,  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  2^  teaspoons  baking 
powder ;  flavor. — Mrs.  Andrew  Harris. 


SMALL  CAKES 


TEA  CAKES. 


Six  eggs,  12  ounces  sugar,  10  ounces  butter  worked  in  1 
quart  flour ;  sift  in  y2  teaspoon  soda ;  beat  sugar  and  eggs  to- 
gether ;  add  a  little  lemon  essence ;  pour  into  flour  and  butter ; 
roll  very  thin;  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  on  top  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

TEA  CAKES    (VEEY  GOOD.) 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of 
lard  worked  in  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  Royal  baking  powder,  y2 
teaspoon  of  salt. — Mrs.  Alex.  Cheek. 

TEA  CAKES. 

One  quart  flour,  1  pint  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
lard  and  butter,  2  eggs,  pinch  of  soda,  1  nutmeg.  Roll  and 
cut.      (Mrs.  Fred  Hill's  recipe.) 

EOCKIES. 

Two  eggs,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  2^2  cups 
flour,  y%  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  or  1  teaspoon 
soda,  1%  cups  chopped  raisins,  1%  cups  black  walnuts 
(English  walnuts  may  be  used),  y2  cup  currants,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  on 
buttered  pans  size  of  an  egg.  Add  more  flour  if  necessary. 
— Miss  Julia  M.  Cooper. 

"delicious  rockies/'' 

Beat  separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  2  eggs,  add  to 
them  after  mixing  them  2  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  allspice,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1 
tablespoon  cloves,  1  cup  melted  butter,  2-3  cup  buttermilk, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  chopped  English  wal- 
nuts, 2!/£>  cups  flour,  well  sifted.     Take  a  teaspoon  and  drop 


118  SMALL  CAKES 

dough  in  biscuit-pan  in  very  small  quantities  and  cook  and 
jou  will  have  delicious  rookies. — Mrs.  C.  A.  Lewis. 

FRUIT    DROP    COOKIES. 

One-third  cup  Snowdrift,  y%  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons 
spice,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  cup  flour,  y%  teaspoon 
salt,  y<£  cup  chopped  walnuts,  *4  cup  each  currants,  raisins 
(and  citron  if  desired).  Drop  by  teaspoon  on  oiled  tins. 
Bake  in  quick  oven. 

MARGUERITES. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar  boiled  until  stringy.  Stir  in 
white  of  1  egg  well  beaten,  add  marshmallows  cut  in  small 
pieces,  raisins,  chopped,  and  English  walnuts.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Spread  on  saltines  and  bake  until  delicately  brown. 
— Miss  Julia  M.  Cooper. 

FRIED    COOKIES. 

Take  5  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together,  a  little  more 
than  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  the  egg,  3  tablespoons  of  sweet 
milk,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  nutmeg  to  taste, 
flour  enough  to  roll  well.  Cut  in  narrow  strips  like  fingers  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  and  sift  sugar  over  it  while  hot. — Mrs.  Zollir 
coffer. 

NUT  CAKES. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  6  scant  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  with  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  1  large  cup  chopped 
nuts,  pinch  of  salt.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  with  a  teaspoon. — 
Mrs.  H.  G.  Tull,  Philadelphia.  <-*** 

HERMITS. 

Three  scant  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 
1/2  teaspoon  soda,  3  eggs,  3  heaping  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg,  1  cup  currants, 
1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  nuts. — Mrs.  J.  L.  H.  Missillier. 


SMALL  CAKES  119 


GINGER  DROP   CAKES. 


Put  1  teaspoonful  soda  in  a  teacup  with  3  tablespoons  of 
boiling  water,  4  tablespoons  butter,  1/2  teaspoon  ginger, 
pinch  salt.  Fill  cup  to  running  over  with  molasses.  Add 
enough  flour  to  have  it  thick  enough  to  drop  on  tins  by  the 
spoonful;  2  scant  cupfuls  will  make  it  stiff  enough.  Cut 
crystalized  ginger  in  small  pieces,  put  one  piece  in  each 
cake.  Oven  not  too  hot.  Drop  with  a  teaspoon. — Miss 
Helen  Tull,  Philadelphia. 

COOKIES. 

One-half  pound  butter,  %  pound  brown  sugar,  2  eggs, 
juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  pound  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder.  Mix  dough,  cut,  and  before  baking  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts  and  sugar. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Parham. 

BERMUDA  WITCHES,   OR  INDIVIDUAL   JELLY  ROLLS. 

Beat  the  whites  of  8  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  yolks  and 
beat  together.  Beat  with  them  1  pound  sugar,  and  stir  in 
y-2  pound  flour.  Place  in  oval  shapes  on  greased  paper  in 
pans  and  bake  light.  Spread  jelly  on  under  side  and  roll, 
then  powder  them  with  sugar.  This  will  make  about  four 
dozen. — Miss  Cornelia  L.  Gary. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  nutmeg 
to  taste,  1  cup  yeast  (or  V-2  a  compressed  cake),  1  cup  sugar, 
%  cup  lard  and  butter.  Warm  the  milk,  add  to  it  the  short- 
ening, sugar,  beaten  eggs  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  When  cold  add  the  yeast  and  stand  in  a  warm  place 
until  quite  light.  Then  roll  and  cut  out.  Cover  and  let 
stand  until  light.  Put  the  doughnuts  into  the  fat  upside 
down,  for  in  standing  a  crust  forms  on  the  surface,  which 
prevents  them  from  becoming  light  if  they  are  placed  in 
the  fat  with  crust  uppermost. 


120  SMALL  CAKES 

DELICIOUS  DOUGHNUTS  OR  CRULLERS. 

One  full  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
melted  Snowdrift,  1  level  teaspoon  salt,  a  good  dash  of  nut- 
meg, grated,  1  cup  milk.  Sour  milk  is  preferable,  as  they 
will  keep  moist  longer.  Flour  enough  so  that  it  can  be  rolled 
out,  2  full  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  sugar,  eggs  and 
Snowdrift  till  creamy;  add  salt  and  nutmeg,  then  milk,  and 
lastly  flour  in  which  you  have  previously  sifted  the  baking 
powder.  Flour  board.  Handle  on  board  as  little  as  possible. 
Fry  in  deep,  hot  Snowdrift  a  golden  brown.  These  will  be 
light  and  digestible  and  not  greasy.  If  sour  milk  is  used 
add  !/2  level  teaspoon  soda  to  milk,  and  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  added  last. 

SAND    TARTS. 

Beat  to  a  cream  2  pounds  sugar  and  1*4  pounds  of  butter. 
Add  3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  y2  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder  and  1  tablespoonful  water  with  2 
pounds  flour,  which  should  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to 
roll.  Roll  thin  on  a  floured  board,  cut  in  square,  sprinkle 
sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top  of  each  and  tuck  a  blanched  al- 
mond in  the  center.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

NUT    COOKIES. 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  14  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  1  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder,  ^4  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  CUP  of  flour, 
2  tablespoons  of  milk,  y2  cup  finely  chopped  walnuts,  % 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice.  Cream  butter  ana  sugar,  and  egg 
well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  and  add  to  first 
mixture.  Then  add  milk,  walnuts  and  lemon  juice.  Drop 
from  a  teaspoon  on  an  unbuttered  sheet  one  inch  apart,  and 
place  a  half  of  a  walnut  meat  on  top  of  each.  Bake  .12  to 
15  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.     This  makes  24  cookies. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKES. 

Three  eggs,  %  cup  butter,  y2  cup  sugar,  3  squares  Baker's 


SMALL  CAKES  121 

chocolate,  1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  3  tablespoons  flour. 
Beat  eggs  until  light.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  com- 
bine mixtures,  then  add  chocolate  (melted  over  hot  water), 
bread  crumbs  and  flour.  Spread  mixture  in  a  shallow  but- 
tered pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Shape  with  a  tiny 
biscuit  cutter  and.  put  together  in  pairs  with  White  Moun- 
tain Cream  between  and  on  top. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Thrower. 

WHITE   MOUNTAIN   CREAM. 

One  cup  sugar,  white  1  egg,  1-3  cup  boiling  water,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan  and  stir 
to  prevent  sugar  from  adhering  to  saucepan;  heat  to  boil- 
ing point  and  boil  without  stirring  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed 
when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  syrup  gradually  in 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  continue  beating  until  of  right  con- 
sistency to  spread,  then  add  flavor. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Thrower. 

GINGER    SNAPS. 

One  large  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1  cup  of  sugar, 
1  cup  of  molasses,  %  cup  of  water,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1 
tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water.  Flour  for  pretty  stiff  dough.  Roll  out 
rather  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Miss  Cornelia  L. 
Gary. 

OATMEAL  WAFERS. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  oatmeal,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Flavor  with  bitter 
almond  or  vanilla.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  buttered  pans, 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven.  These  are  delicious. — Mrs. 
J.  C.  Kittrell. 

LEMON   CUP   CAKES. 

One-half  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  half  a  lemon;  4  eggs;  1*4  cups  pastry  flour;  y±  tea- 
spoon salt;  14  teaspoon  soda.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind  and  the  yolks  of  the 


122  SMALL  CAKES 

eggs.  Sift  together  the  salt,  flour  and  soda.  Add  this  mix- 
ture to  the  other  and  when  thoroughly  mixed  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.     Bake  in  small  tins. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

Onei-half  cup  butter,  2  small  squares  chocolate,  1  cup 
sugar,  2^  scant  cups  flour,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, i/4  teaspoon  salt,  ^4  cup  milk.  Mix  in  usual  way,  add- 
ing melted  chocolate  just  before  adding  flour.  Roll  thin, 
shape  with  small  cutter  and  bake  in  hot  gas  stove,  or  hot 
wood  stove  on  top  grate,  lift  with  knife  and  let  cool  before 
serving. — Mrs.  C.  0.  Fountain. 

MOLASSES   COOKIES. 

One  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs. 
Beat  well  together,  add  1  scant  tablespoon  soda  sifted  in  1 
cup  flour,  1  cup  lard  or  butter,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1 
tablespoon  cinnamon.  Flour  enough  to  make  stiff  enough 
to  roll. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Parliam. 

OATMEAL   HERMITS. 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  lard,  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  8  table- 
spoons sweet  milk,  4  cups  flour,  4  cups  oatmeal  (raw),  4 
teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  chopped  raisins. 
Shape  on  board  with  hands,  cut  and  bake.  Serve  cold. 
Better  after  a  few  days. — Mrs.  C.  0.  Fountain. 

WALNUT    MACAROONS. 

One-half  pint  brown  sugar,  14  pint  walnut  meats,  chopped 
fine,  3  even  tablespoons  flour,  1-3  teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs.  Beat 
the  eggs,  add  sugar,  salt,  flour  and  then  the  walnuts.  Drop 
the  mixture  on  buttered  paper,  some  distance  apart,  and  bake 
until  brown. — Miss  Julia  Cooper. 


SMALL  CAKES  123 


SWEET    WAFERS. 


Three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  iy2 
cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  flavor  to  taste.  Heat  wafer  iron  and 
rub  with  butter.  Drop  1  teaspoonful,  close  iron,  and  when 
done  roll  over  stick. — Mrs.  Chas.  H.  Turner. 


PLAIN    WAFERS. 


Sift  1  cup  of  flour  and  y2  teaspoon  of  salt  into  bowl.  Add 
sweet  milk  until  thin  as  cream.  Bake  in  wafer  irons,  un- 
greased.      Do  not  roll. — Mrs  C.  M.  Cooper. 


LAYER  CAKES 


BLACK    CHOCOLATE    CAKE. 


Into  saucepan  melt  %  cake  Baker's  chocolate,  add  1  1-3 
cups  of  dark  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  of  milk,  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  thick.  After  this  mixture 
is  cool  stir  into  the  batter  made  of  1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  milk  with  2  teaspoons  of  soda  dissolved  in  it, 
4  1-3  cups  of  flour,  5  eggs;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  to- 
gether with  icing  made  of  4  cups  of  sugar  boiled  till  it  ropes 
when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Pour  over  well-beaten  whites 
of  4  eggs ;  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Boil  1/2  cup  grated  chocolate,  i/o  cup  milk  and  yolk  of  1 
egg  until  thick.  When  cool  stir  in  1  cup  sugar,  piece  of  but- 
ter size  of  a  butternut,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  flour,  1 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water;  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Bake  in  rather  slow  oven.  This  can  be  made  into 
a  layer  or  loaf  cake. — Mrs.  W.  8.  Thompson. 

CHOCOLATE   CREAM   CAKE. 

Cream  %  cup  °f  butter,  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  mix  in 
alternately  %  cup  of  milk  and  2  cups  of  pastry  flour  sifted 
with  2  teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder.  Beat  well,  flavor 
and  add  4  stiffly-beaten  whites.  Bake  in  2  layers  or  in  small 
tins. — Mrs.  D.  H.  Mangum. 

CHOCOLATE   CREAM  FILLING. 

Whip  1  pint  of  cream  until  stiff  and  place  to  drain;  melt 
2  squares  of  Walter  Baker's  chocolate  and  add  ^  cup  of 
sugar  to  this  and  %  a  cup  of  whipped  cream  and  a  little 
vanilla.  Reserve  a  scant  cup  of  the  whipped  cream,  sweeten, 
flavor  and  set  aside,  mixing  the  balance  with  cooled  chocolate. 


LAYEK  CAKES  125 

Spread  between  layers  and  on  top  and  decorate  with  reserved 
cream  pressed  through  pastry  tube. — Mrs.  D.  H.  Mangum. 

devil's  cake. 

Six  eggs,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  soda, 
2  cups  sugar.  Beat  eggs  separately,  put  1  cup  sugar  to 
yolks  and  beat,  and  1  cup  sugar  to  butter  and  cream;  add 
beaten  whites  after  mixing  yolks,  sugar  and  butter,  put  2 
teaspoons  soda  (level)  in  sweet  milk  and  dissolve;  then  add 
this  to  the  mixture.  Now  take  2  cups  grated  chocolate,  1% 
cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  put  in  a  vessel  (choco- 
late, brown  sugar  and  cup  sweet  milk)  ;  set  on  a  hot  stove  and 
let  boil  about  3  minutes ;  stir  to  keep  from  burning.  Take  off 
and  let  cool  sufficiently  to  keep  from  cooking  an  egg.  Add 
yolks  of  4  eggs  and  pour  into  the  white  batter;  then  add 
about  3  or  31^  cups  of  well-sifted  flour  and  cook  in  layer 
tins.  This  should  make  8  layers,  enough  for  2  cakes. — Mrs. 
G.  A.  Lewis. 

DREAM  CAKES. 

To  the  whites  of  6  eggs  take  l1/^  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 
1/2  cup  of  butter,  the  same  quantity  of  water,  2  cups  of  flour, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Bake 
in  small  tins  or  layers;  cover  with  a  boiled  icing  flavored 
with  lemon. 

NUT   CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup 
hot  mashed  potato;  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  dry;  1  teaspoon 
nutmeg,  ^  teaspoon  cloves,  1%  squares  chocolate  melted,  % 
cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  pastry  flour  or  1  2-3  cups  bread  flour, 
3%  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  cup 
nut  meats.  Cream  the  butter  and  beat  in  the  sugar.  Add 
the  potato  and  melted  chocolate  and  finish  as  usual.  This 
makes  a  large  cake.     Cover  with  the  marshmallow  icing. 


126  LAYEE  CAKES 


NUTLETS. 

One  pound  crushed  almonds,  1  pound  flour,  3  eggs,  well 
beaten,  with  1  cup  sugar ;  stir  well  and  bake  like  cake. 

AMBROSIA    CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  1  cup  boiling  water,  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  as  a  plain 
cake  and  slice  in  4  layers:  (1)  put  a  layer  of  icing;  (2)  a 
layer  of  grated  cocoanut,  (3)  a  layer  of  orange  and  so  on. 
Ice  over  the  top. 

Recipe  for  icing. — Take  whites  of  2  eggs  and  beat  to  a 
stiff  froth ;  add  enough  pulverized  sugar  to  make  stiff ;  flavor 
to  taste. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Thomas. 

SPICE   CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  (butter,  1  cup  sour 
milk,  3  cups  flour,  5  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  2  teaspoons 
ground  cloves,  3  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice. 
Reserve  4  whites  of  the  5  eggs  for  icing.  Mix  balance  and 
bake  as  for  jelly-cake. 

Boiled  icing. — Four  cups  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water,  boil 
until  almost  like  candy  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour 
over  the  well-beaten  whites,  beating  all  the  time.  Season 
and  when  coo1  spread  between  layers. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Hunt. 

SPICE   CAKE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  cup  butter, 
2  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  reserving  whites  of  2  for  icing;  2  table- 
spoons cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1 
teaspoon  soda.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  white 
icing. — Mrs.  J.  H.  ParJuim.  * 

SPICE   CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  ground 
cloves,  1  teaspoon  ground  allspice,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1 


LAYER  CAKES  127 

cup  cold  boiled  coffee,  2  cups  of  flour  with  2  teaspoons  of 
Royal  baking  powder  sifted  with  the  flour.  Cream  together 
butter  and  sugar,  adding  eggs  1  at  a  time.  Beat  well,  add 
spices  and  coffee,  then  add  flour  and  ibake. — Miss  Sarah  Ed- 
wards. 

FEATHEK,  CAKE. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  granulated  sugar,  2-3  cup  Snow- 
drift, 1  level  teaspoon  salt,  4  eggs,  y2  cup  water,  2y2  cups 
sifted  flour,  2  rounding  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
extract.  Mix  sugar  and  Snowdrift  well  together  and  add 
salt ;  beat  the  eggs  in  1  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each  egg 
is  added ;  next  add  the  water,  then  sift  in  the  flour,  which  has 
been  previously  sifted  twice,  adding  the  baking  powder  as 
you  sift  the  flour  into  the  batter ;  beat  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Bake  in  2  layers  in  moderate  oven.  Put  together  with  any 
filling  desired. 

PIXEAPPLE   CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar  creamed  together,  yolks  of 
4  eggs,  1  cup  milk  or  water,  then  add  beaten  whites  of  4 
eggs,  3  cups  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Filling. — "Whites  of  2  eggs,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  15-cent 
can  pineapple. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Moss. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  2-3  cup  butter,  ^  cup 
sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour  (measured  after  sifting),  3  heaping 
teaspoons  of  Royal  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — 
Mrs.  Alex.  Cheek. 

WHITE   CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  1  of  butter,  1  of  milk,  3  of  flour,  1  of 
corn  starch,  12  eggs  (whites)  well  beaten,  l/o  teaspoon  Royal 
baking  powder.  Dissolve  corn  starch  in  part  of  milk  and 
sugar,  stirred  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  flour,  then  the  re- 
mainder of  the  milk,  then  whites  of  eggs ;  flavor  with  bitter 


128  LAYER  CAKES 

almond.  (1)  Bake  in  4  layers,  use  icing  and  nuts  for  filling 
(almonds)  1  layer;  (2)  1  cocoanut,  grated,  juice  of  1  orange 
— 1  layer;  (3)  1  cup  raisins,  dash  of  chocolate — 1  layer; 
(4)  1  cup  nuts,  1  cup  citron;  (5)  4  cups  of  sugar,  the  whites 
of  4  eggs.  Take  sugar,  1  cup  water  and  let  it  boil  until  you 
can  string  it  (don't  stir)  ;  whip  whites  and  beat  in  the 
boiling  sugar  until  cool. — Mrs.  0.  N.  McDowell. 

YELLOW    CAKE. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  2-3  of  a  cup  of  butter,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  3y2  cups  of  flour  (measured  after  sifting),  3 
teaspoons  of  Royal  baking  powder. — Mrs.  Alex.  Cheek. 

FIG  CAKE. 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  y2  cup  milk,  iy2 
teaspoons  Royal  baking  powder  sifted  with  3  cups  flour, 
whites  of  8  eggs;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  2  layers. 
Dark  part. — One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  milk, 
1  teaspoon  Royal  baking  powder  sifted  in  1%  cups  flour, 
yolks  of  7  eggs  and  1  whole  egg,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1 
teaspoon  of  allspice.  Put  half  of  dark  in  pan,  lay  on  1  pound 
halved  figs  (floured),  put  on  remainder  of  dark  batter  and 
bake.  Put  white  and  dark  together  with  white  frosting. — 
Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

COCOANUT   CAKE. 

One-half  pound  sugar,  milk  of  1  cocoanut  and  tablespoon 
of  butter.  Boil  until  thick  syrup ;  pour  over  grated  cocoanut 
and  spread  between  layers  of  sponge  cake.  Two  large  cocoa- 
nuts  or  3  small  ones.  Leave  some  cocoanut  to  sprinkle  on 
cake  after  it  has  been  iced  with  boiled  icing  made  of  2  cups  of 
sugar  boiled  till  it  ropes  and  poured  over  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 


LAYER  CAKES  129 

LADY    BALTIMORE    CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  3  cupfuls  of 
flour,  1  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  6  eggs,  2  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  rose- 
water.  Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar  gradually,  beating 
continuously ;  then  the  milk  and  the  flavoring ;  next  the  flour, 
into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  and,  lastly, 
the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  which  should  be  folded 
lightly  into  the  dough.  Bake  in  three  layer-cake  pans  in  an 
oven  that  is  hotter  than  it  would  have  to  be  for  loaf  cakes. 

To  make  fillings. — Dissolve  3  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar 
in  one  cupful  of  boiling  water ;  cook  it  until  it  threads ;  then 
pour  it  over  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  stirring  con- 
stantly. To  this  icing  add  1  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  1 
cupful  of  chopped  nut  meats  (pecans  preferred),  and  5 
figs,  cut  into  very  thin  strips.  With  this,  ice  both  the  top  and 
sides  of  the  cake. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Teague. 

BOILED    SPONGE    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  water  boiled  to  syrup 
until  it  spins,  8  eggs  beaten  separately  ^and  then  together ; 
then  pour  the  hot  syrup  drop  by  drop  into  the  eggs,  beating 
all  the  time  until  perfectly  cool ;  then  add  y2  pound  of  flour, 
sifted  twice,  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Bake 
in  shallow  pan  with  paper  underneath  batter. — Mrs.  T.  0. 
Heativole,  Baltimore,  Md. 

mother's  cream  cake. 

One  pound  sugar,  %  pound  flour,  10  eggs,  beaten  sepa- 
rately. Add  sugar  to  yolks,  then  sifted  flour  and  whites  by 
degrees.  Flavor  with  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  grated  rind 
of  1.  Bake  in  long  biscuit  pan  twice  and  put  together  with  a 
filling  made  of  1  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  y2 
bos  of  gelatine,  iy2  gills  of  sweet  milk,  sherry  wine.     Soak 

—9 


130  LAYEE  CAKES 

gelatine  in  the  milk  until  soft,  place  bowl  in  pan  of  water 
on  stove  and  stir  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.  When  nearly 
cold  beat  into  the  whipped  cream  and  sugar.  Flavor  with 
the  wine  and  spread  between  the  cold  cakes  and  cover  top 
and  sides  thickly. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

LADY   BALTIMORE    CAKE    (ORIGINAL   RECIPE). 

Beat  %  cupful  butter  and  2  cupfuls  of  sugar  to  a  cream. 
Add  %  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  slowly  to  this  mixture,  stirring 
steadily.  Sift  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with 
2^2  cupfuls  of  flour.  Stir  flour  into  the  sugar,  milk  and 
butter  and  beat  until  smooth.  Beat  the  whites  of  8  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Fold  them  carefully  into  the  batter,  add  a  few 
drops  of  almond  extract  and  turn  into  3  greased  pans.  Bake 
in  moderately  quick  oven. 

Filling. — Boil  3  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  1  cupful  of  water 
for  10  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  dry  stiff 
froth.  Pour  the  syrup  upon  these  eggs,  beating  steadily; 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Add  2  cupfuls  of  well-chopped  raisins, 
2  cupfuls  of  nuts  chopped  fine.  Fruit  may  be  soaked  in 
sherry  wine. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Singleton,  Mehane,  N.  C. 

MINNNEHAHA   CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cup  white  sugar,  i/o  cup  butter,  3  eggs, 
2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  ^  cup  sweet 
milk ;  flavor. 

Filling. — One  cup  granulated  sugar  and  4  tablespoonfuls 
water.  Boil  until  it  threads  from  the  spoon.  Add  white  of 
1  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  1  cup  seeded  raisins, 
chopped.    Use  at  once  before  it  hardens. — Mrs.  S.  H.  Allen. 

CUP   CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour  with  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  sifted,  5  eggs,  1  cup  milk  or  water  and  tea- 
spoon vanilla  or  almond  extract. 


LAYEK  CAKES  131 

CREAM    CAKE. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour, 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flavor  with 
bitter  almond.  Bake  cake  in  4  layers,  and  put  together 
with  this  filling:  1  pint  sweetmilk,  1  can  of  pineapple,  ^4 
pound  citron,  *4  pound  crystalized  cherries,  few  pieces  of 
crystalized  ginger,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  raisins,  i/2  pound  al- 
monds, 2  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter,  yolks  of  4 
eggs.  Beat  butter  and  flour  together  and  add  to  yolks  of 
eggs,  beaten  well  with  the  sugar.  Pour  into  the  scalded 
milk  and  stir  over  fire,  to  keep  from  burning,  until  thick. 
Take  from  fire  until  cool.  Squeeze  juice  from  pineapple 
and  cut  cherries,  ginger,  raisins,  almonds  and  citron  fine 
and  add  to  mixture.  Flavor  with  10  drops  of  bitter  almond 
and  vanilla.  Spread  very  thickly  between  cakes,  making  2 
layer  cakes. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

WALNUT    CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  of 
cold  water,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar,  4 
eggs,  2  cups  nuts  stirred  in  last. — Mrs.  Zollicoffer. 

STRIPED  CAKE    ( WHITE  AND  YELLOW) . 

Sift  1  quart  flour  with  the  required  ibaking  powder  that 
you  use.  White  Layers. — Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  ^  cup 
butter,  2-3  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  the  sifted  flour.  Mix 
the  above  ingredients  well  and  fold  in  the  well-whipped 
whites  of  4  eggs,  a  liberal  pinch  of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
This  will  make  2  nice  layers  or  3  thin  layers.  Yellow  Lay- 
ers.— 1  cup  sugar  beaten  with  yolks  of  4  eggs,  %  cup  butter 
creamed,  2-3  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  the  flour,  a  pinch 
salt,  1  teaspoon  extract  lemon.  Bake  in  layers,  2  or  3  as 
preferred ;  put  together  yellow  and  white  layers  with  the  fol- 
lowing icing.  Icing. — 2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water. 
Cook  till  it  strings  when  spoon  is  lifted.     Set  off  stove  a  few 


132  LATER  OAKES 

minutes,  whip  2  whites  of  eggs  light,,  put  1  level  teaspoon 
baking  powder  in  the  cooked  sugar  and  whip  in  with  the 
whites  of  eggs  till  it  is  thick  enough  to  spread  nicely.  Sea- 
son with  vanilla. — Mrs.  0.  0.  White. 

TTJTTI   FRUTTI   CAKE. 

Make  a  rich  white  batter,  bake  in  layers,  and  while  hot 
put  in  filling.  Filling. — Make  a  boiled  icing,  chop  fine  and 
have  prepared  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  mixed  nuts,  pick  out 
5  dozen  black  walnuts,  *4  pound  citron,  cut  fine ;  carry  nuts 
through  meat  chopper,  then  rub  all  together  well;  stir  in 
icing  and  place  between  layers  while  hot.  This  makes  a 
splendid  cake. — Mrs.  I.  C.  Rowland. 


ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS 

CHOCOLATE   CARAMEL  ICING. 

One-half  cup  brown  sugar,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  dash  of  chocolate.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thick. 
— Mrs.  B.  L.  Wester. 

MAESHMALLOW  FILLING. 

Two  cups  of  thrown  and  1  of  white  sugar,  %  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Let  cook  until  threads ; 
pour  in  a  small  stream  over  the  whites  of  3  well-beaten  eggs, 
beating  briskly  all  of  the  time.  Add  1  cup  of  marshmallows ; 
beat  until  thick. — Mrs.  0.  P.  Shell 

MAESHMALLOW  ICING. 

One-half  pound  of  marshmallows  and  *4  cup  of  water  in  a 
double  boiler  over  the  fire.  Stir  these  until  they  are  melted 
and  pour  while  hot  into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. — 
Lillian  Harris. 

OEANGE  FILLING. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  2!/o  tablespoons  flour,  grated  rind  of 
%  orange,  14  CUP  orange  juice,  i/2  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 
1  egg  slightly  beaten,  1  teaspoon  butter.  Cook  in  double 
boiler. 

LEMON    CHEESE    FILLING. 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  white  of  1, 
1  cup  of  sugar,  teaspoon  of  butter.  Boil  slowly,  stirring 
constantly,  and  when  cold  spread  between  layers  of  cake. — 
Mrs.  W.  Brooks  Parham. 

MILK   FEOSTING. 

One  and  one-half  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  butter,  y%  cup 
milk,  y2  teaspoon  vanilla.     Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan, 


134  ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS 

then  add  sugar  and  milk.  Boil  gently  without  stirring  for 
13  minutes.  Beat  until  stiff  enough  to  spread,  then  add 
flavoring  and  spread  over  cake. 

CHOCOLATE    CARAMEL    FILLING. 

Half  pound  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful 
vanilla,  2  squares  of  chocolate  (Baker's),  ^  cupful  of  water 
or  milk.  Stir,  setting  the  dish  in  boiling  water  until  stiff 
enough  to  spread. — Mrs.  8.  H.  Allen. 

MOCHA    FILLING. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  2  spoons  cocoa,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, 2  tablespoonfuls  hot  coffee  (strong),  vanilla;  cream  well 
together  and  put  on  cake  after  it  is  cold. — Mrs.  Cora  Phelps. 

EXCELLENT     ICING. 

Two  cups  sugar,  whites  2  eggs,  ^  cup  boiling  water,  ^ 
teaspoon  cream  tartar,  y±  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Let 
sugar  and  water  come  to  a  boil  and  boil  about  a  minute;  be 
careful  not  to  let  it  thread ;  add  cream  tartar  and  baking 
powder  to  well-beaten  eggs,  then  add  gradually  the  syrup  to 
eggs. — Mrs.  A.  67.  Houston. 

WHITE   ICING. 

Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar  moistened  with  water 
and  boiled  until  it  strings  from  spoon.  Beat  in  whites  of  3 
eggs  well  beaten  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  fresh  lemon  or 
melted  chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

One-half  cake  Baker's  chocolate,  2-3  cup  of  milk.  Moisten 
chocolate  with  half  of  milk ;  put  on  fire  until  dissolved ;  add  1 
cup  of  sugar  and  the  remainder  of  milk.     Cook  until  smooth. 


ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS  13 


NUT    FILLING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  l1^  cups  granulated 
sugar,  1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Stir  all  together  with  enough 
water  to  moisten.  Cook  until  stringy  and  pour  over  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs.     Flavor  with  vanilla.     Nuts  may  be  added. 

MAKSHMALLOW  FILLING. 

Three  cups  sugar  boiled  until  stringy  and  beaten  into 
whites,  of  3  eggs  beaten  stiffly.  Put  1  pound  marshmallows 
in  pan  inside  stove  to  soften  for  few  minutes,  and  add  to 
icing  while  it  is  hot.  Blanch  *4  pound  almonds  and  add  to 
icing.     Flavor  with  vanilla. 

PINEAPPLE    FILLING. 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar  boiled  until  stringy.  Beat 
into  whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten.  Flavor  with  fresh  lemon. 
Strain  1  can  grated  pineapple  so  as  not  to  use  juice  and 
spread  between  layers  on  icing.  Use  only  icing  on  top  layer. 
— Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

WHITE   ICING. 

One  and  one-half  cups  confectioner's  sugar  wet  up  with  a 
sufficient  quantity  milk  (or  cream)  to  make  the  consistency 
of  soft  fudge.  Beat  well;  add  flavoring  and  spread  on  the 
cake.  For  chocolate,  melt  2  squares  Baker's  unsweetened 
and  beat  well  into  white  icing.  Use  vanilla.  If  too  thick 
add  more  milk ;  by  beating  it  will  be  very  smooth  and  will  not 
peel  off  cake  or  become  hard. 

FILLING. 

One  and  one-half  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  1  egg  yolk. 
Mix  thoroughly  if  too  thick ;  add  a  little  milk,  but  if  too  thin 
more  sugar.     Flavor  with  orange. 


136  ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS 

BOILED    ICING    NO.     2. 

Two  cups  sugar,  %  cup  hot  water,  ^  teaspoon  cream  tar- 
tar, whites  of  2  eggs.  Add  cream  of  tartar  to  sugar  and 
boil  with  the  water  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread.  Do  not 
beat  whites  of  egg  at  all,  but  pour  hot  syrup  into  them  slowly, 
beating  all  the  while.  Continue  beating  until  white  and 
thick  enough  to  spread  on  cake.  If  it  gets  too  hard  before 
spreading,  add  one  or  two  tablespoons  cold  water. — Mrs. 
W.  B.  Waddill. 

ALMOND    FILLING. 

Boil  2  cups  sugar  and  ^  cup  of  water  till  it  will  thread 
from  a  spoon  and  pour  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Beat  until  cold  and  add  x/2  pound  almonds  blanched  and 
pounded  to  a  paste.     Flavor  with  rose  water. 

COFFEE  FILLING. 

One-half  cup  butter,  2  cups  pulverized  sugar,  yolk  of  1 
egg,  4  teaspoons  of  strong  coffee  boiled. 

PINEAPPLE    ICING. 

Mix  together  half  a  pint  of  grated  pineapple  (using  juice 
and  pulp)  and  half  a  pint  of  sugar;  if  only  the  canned 
article  is  available  decrease  the  amount  of  sugar  by  one- 
third.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  boil  slowly, 
but  steadily,  until  the  syrup  will  spin  a  thread  when  dropped 
from  the  prongs  of  a  fork.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  whipped  to  a  froth ;  over  them  pour  the  syrup  in  a  fine 
stream,  beating  steadily.  AVhen  mixed  stand  the  saucepans 
on  the  side  of  the  fire  for  a  few  moments,  beating  hard.  When 
the  egg  seems  to  be  cooked  transfer  to  a  pan  of  cold  water 
and  beat  slowly  until  the  icing  is  thick  enough  to  spread. — 
Mrs.  W.  D.  Horner. 

MARSHMALLOW  ICING. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon 


ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS  137 

vanilla,  2-3  cup  water,  !/o  pound  marshm allows.  Boil  sugar 
and  water  to  240  degrees  or  the  hair  stage.  Pour  in  a  fine 
stream  on  the  eggs  beaten  dry,  beating  constantly  meanwhile. 
Beat  frequently  till  cool  (not  cold).  Add  the  marshmallows, 
cut  in  fourths.  If  the  frosting  is  too  warm,  when  the  marsh- 
mallows  are  added  they  will  melt  and  ruin  the  frosting. 
This  frosting  should  be  thick  and  creamy  and  pile  upon  the 
cake  rather  than  run  off.  This  recipe  will  frost  a  large 
cake  made  in  a  dripping  pan. 

LEMON   FILLING. 

1  cup  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  hot 
water,  1  heaping  teaspoon  butter,  2  heaping  teaspoons  corn 
starch  or  flour  dissolved  in  little  water,  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Put  in  double  boiler  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  spread  be- 
tween layers. 


DESSERTS 

SYLLABUB. 

One-half  pound  sugar,  3  pints  lukewarm  cream,  1  cup  of 
wine.  Dissolve  sugar  in  wine,  then  pour  it  on  the  milk  from 
a  height  slowly,  so  as  to  cause  the  milk  to  froth. — Mrs.  S.  H. 
Allen. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Put  1  y<z  cupfuls  of  sugar,  2  cupfuls  of  water,  and  a  piece 
of  ibutter  in  baking-dish  and  place  on  stove  where  it  will 
boil ;  take  1^  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  teasponf ul  of  baking  powder 
and  1  teaspoonful  of  lard,  mix  thoroughly,  roll  out  thin, 
cut  in  pieces  and  fill  with  sliced  tart  apple,  pinch  edges  to- 
gether and  put  in  hot  syrup.  Bake  for  about  20  minutes, 
when  they  will  be  coated  with  a  rich  delicious  syrup.  These 
are  easy  to  serve,  as  the  sauce  is  all  ready. 

APPLE   DUMPLINGS. 

Six  apples,  peeled,  cored  and  sliced,  1  cup  sugar.  Line 
6  cups  well  greased,  with  the  paste  rolled  out  thin,  wet 
edges,  fill  with  apples,  some  of  the  sugar,  cover  with  more 
paste;  put  in  shallow  stewpan  large  enough  to  contain  them, 
with  boiling  water  to  reach  halfway  up  the  cups;  steam 
thus  45  minutes;  turn  out  on  dish,  sift  sugar  over  them. 
Serve  with  spice  sauce. 

PEACH  DUMPLING. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough  and  cut  in  small  squares.  Pare 
peaches  and  cut  in  halves,  extracting  the  seeds  and  putting 
sugar  in  the  cavities  and  covering  with  other  half  of  peach 
with  a  little  sugar  on  top.  Pinch  the  edges  of  the  dough 
carefully  over  the  peach  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half 
an  hour.     Serre  hot  or  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. 


DESSERTS  139 


CREAM   PUFFS. 


Heat  together  1  cupful  of  water  and  l1/^  cupful  of  butter 
until  they  boil.  Add  l1/^  cupful  of  pastry  flour  all  at  once 
and  beat  it  until  smooth;  let  it  cook  5  minutes,  stirring  it 
all  the  time.  When  cool,  add  5  eggs,  1  at  a  time,  stirring 
the  unbeaten  egg  into  the  dough  until  it  is  smoothly  blended 
before  adding  another.  Place  a  rounding  tablespoonful  of 
dough  on  a  greased  tin,  shaping  it  slightly  to  make  it  round, 
or  dragging  it  between  two  knife  blades  into  a  long  shape  if 
for  eclairs.  Bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  25 
minutes.  Cool  and  fill  with  cream  filling.  Eclairs  should 
be  frosted  on  top. 

Put  2  cupfuls  of  milk  to  scald  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix 
l/o  cupful  of  flour,  y8  cupful  of  sugar  and  %  teaspoonful  of 
salt  well  together,  and  add  the  hot  milk,-  stirring  out  all  the 
lumps.  Return  it  to  the  fire  and  let  it  cook  for  10  minutes, 
then  stir  in  1^  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  2  eggs,  beaten 
until  yolks  and  whites  are  mixed.  Let  this  cook  for  about 
3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Cool  and  add  the  vanilla. 
To  fill  the  puffs  use  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  making  a  small 
hole  for  the  tube,  or  make  a  cut  in  the  side  and  insert  the 
filling  by  teaspoonfuls. 


COLD    COFFEE    SOUFFLE. 


Cook  !/2  CUP  of  ground  coffee  in  1  pint  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  for  20  minutes.  Strain  on  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  3 
eggs ;  return  to  the  boiler  and  cook  until  thickened.  Add  % 
cup  of  sugar,  14  teaspoon  salt  and  %  teaspoon  of  gelatine 
which  has  soaked  in  1-3  cup  of  cold  water.  Strain,  add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs ;  turn  into  mold ;  chill  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

CHARLOTTE   RUSSE. 

One  pint  cream,  2-3  cup  sugar,  ^  box  gelatine,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  4  tablespoons  sherry.     Cover  gelatine  with  i/o 


140  *  DESSERTS 

cup  water.  Dissolve  over  hot  water.  Add  sugar  while  whip- 
ping cream.  Stir  4  tablespoons  of  milk  in  gelatine  and 
strain  over  cream.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  pour 
in  a  mould  lined  with  sponge-cake.  Delicious. — Mrs.  J.  C. 
Kittrell. 

CHARLOTTE   RUSSE. 

One  pint  thick  cream,  y2  cup  wine,  2  cups  sugar,  whites 
of  4  eggs  frothed,  1-3  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  milk. 
Blanched  almonds  if  desired. — Mrs..  J.  H.  Parham. 

TUTTI  FRUTTI   JELLY. 

Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  cold  water  for 
an  hour.  Add  1  pint  of  boiling  water  and  %  of  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Then  add  the  juice  of  2 
small  lemons  or  1%  large  ones  and  strain  into  a  bowl  or 
pitcher.  When  it  begins  to  cool  or  "set,"  rinse  the  jelly 
mould  out  in  cold  water  and  slice  half  a  banana  in  the  bot- 
tom. Put  in  a  few  strawberries  or  raspberries  and  then  pour 
some  of  the  jelly  over  it.  Place  the  mould  in  a  pan  of  chipped 
ice  so  that  it  will  harden  quickly.  As  soon  as  it  stiffens, 
put  in  some  more  fruit,  cherries,  sliced  oranges,  sliced  figs, 
or  berries,  then  more  jelly.  Let  this  harden,  then  keep  add- 
ing fruit  and  jelly  until  all  has  been  used.  When  ready  to 
serve  turn  out  on  a  pretty  dish  and  put  a  border  of  cherries 
or  berries  around  it.  Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream  or 
thin  boiled  custard.  If  the  jelly  in  the  pitcher  gets  too  hard 
before  all  the  fruit  is  used,  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  to 
soften. 

APRICOT  TAPIOCA. 

Soak  and  stew  a  half  pound  of  evaporated  apricots,  then 
lift  out  with  a  perforated  ladle.  To  the  juice  in  the  kettle, 
add  enough  water  to  make  a  pint  of  liquid,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  tapioca. 
Cook  clear,  turn  into  a  dish,  stir  the  fruit  in  gently,  and  set 
aside  to  get  very  cold.     Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 


DESSERTS  141 


BAKED    APPLES. 


Six  large  apples,  wipe  and  remove  the  cores,  fill  center 
with  1  cupful  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  of  butter, 
*4  teaspoon  powdered  cinnamon;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
soft. — Mrs.  Cora  Phelps. 


TIPSY     CAKE. 

Soak  a  sponge  cake  in  sherry  wine.  Pour  over  this  a 
small  quantity  of  boiled  custard.  Add  blanched  almonds, 
pile  up  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with 
wine,  and  sprinkle  the  top  with  almonds. 

APPLE  FLOAT. 

Cut  tart  apples  in  small  pieces ;  after  washing  and  remov- 
ing any  decayed  spots,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  until 
done ;  press  through  a  colander  to  remove  cores  and  peelings. 
To  every  pint  of  the  strained  apples,  sweetened  to  taste,  add 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Beat  together  until  cold 
and  flavor  with  nutmeg.     Serve  with  crushed  ice  and  cream. 

A  quickly  prepared  and  delicious  dessert  can  be  made  from 
1/2  pint  of  stiffly  whipped  cream,  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar,  y2  a  cupful  of  chopped  nut  meats  and  a  little  minced 
candied  orange  peel.  Serve  in  slender,  tall  sherbet  glasses 
that  have  ibeen  lined  with  lady-fingers  or  bits  of  sponge-cake 
and  garnish  with  a  few  candied  cherries.  This  dessert  can 
be  made  in  a  few  moments  and  should  be  served  as  cold  as 
possible. 

STRAWBERRY  MOUSSE. 

Hull  and  wash  1  pint  of  strawberries,  drain  and  rub  them 
through  a  fine  sieve;  add  1  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and 
1-3  of  a  box  of  gelatine  which  has  been  softened  in  a  little 
cold  water  and  melted  over  hot  water.  Set  aside  until  the 
mixtures  begins  to  thicken,  stirring  occasionally  to  keep  it 
from  setting  firmly  around  the  sides  of  the  bowl.     Add  a 


142  DESSERTS 

little  pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites  of  5  egg&  and  whip  them  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Stir  these  into  the  mixture  and  turn  through 
lightly  until  a  little  dropped  from  the  spoon  will  retain  its 
shape.  Turn  into  a  wet  mold,  cover  tightly,  bind  the  edges 
with  a  buttered  cloth  and  bury  in  a  mixture  of  ice  and  salt. 
Set  aside  for  2  hours,  then  turn  out  and  serve. 

STRAWBERRY   SHORTCAKE. 

One  pint  flour,  1  tablespoon  lard,  a  little  salt,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder  sifted  in  flour,  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Roll  out  about  %  inch  thick  and  bake  in  oven.  When 
done,  split,  spread  with  butter,  put  a  layer  of  strawberries, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  put  top  on  and  serve  with  fresh  cream. — 
Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

INDIVIDUAL    STRAWBERRY    SHORTCAKES. 

These  are  delightful,  made  like  baking  powder  biscuit  and 
slightly  sweetened.  Roll  out  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  diamonds, 
squares  or  circles  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done,  break 
open — never  cut, — put  between  them  mashed  and  sweetened 
berries,  buttering  the  biscuit  first,  if  preferred.  Put  on  top 
of  each  little  shortcake  more  of  the  mashed  berries  with  one 
or  two  large  berries  cut  in  halves,  sprinkled  with  powdered 
sugar;  and  if  wished  specially  decorative,  crown  each  with 
a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream.     Serve  on  a  pretty  plate, 

PINEAPPLE  SORBET. 

Peel  and  cut  up  a  small  sugar-loaf  pineapple,  and  let  it 
stand  in  a  cool  place  over  night  with  a  pint  of  sugar  added 
to  it.  An  earthen  jar  is  best  to  hold  the  pine,  whose  acid 
properties  forbid  its  standing  in  tin.  In  the  morning  strain, 
pressing  out  as  much  of  the  juice  as  possible.  Add  to  this  a 
pint  of  water  and  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange.  Boil  10 
minutes,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  two  oranges,  freeze 
about  15  minutes  until  of  a  smooth,  even,  creamlike  texture, 


DESSERTS  143 

and  serve  after  the  meat  course  at  dinner.  If  you  desire  a 
granite,  which  is  frozen  as  hard  as  ice  cream,  but  should  be 
of  a  rough  grained  consistency,  set  the  mixture  away  packed 
in  ice,  and  let  it  remain  there  for  2  or  3  hours.  Scrape  the 
frozen  part  occasionally  from  the  sides  of  the  can,  and  stir 
long  enough  to  mix  the  ice  with  the  mass,  but  not  long 
enough  to  make  it  creamy.  Serve  in  a  cup  made  of  the  half 
skin  of  an  orange  with  the  pulp  scraped  out. 

PINEAPPLE   SHORTCAKE. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  crust,  very  short  and  slightly  sweet- 
ened. Bake  in  a  sheet  or  round  fully  an  inch  thick.  Split 
while  hot  and  butter  generously,  spreading  the  top  thickly 
with  crushed  or  grated  pineapple.  Serve  with  or  without 
cream. 

CREAM    PUFFS. 

One  cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  flour,  2  ounces  butter,  4 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  powder,  y2  pint  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored  to  taste.  Have  the  water  in  a  saucepan,  add 
the  butter,  and  when  thoroughly  boiling  throw  in  the  flour  and 
stir  until  it  forms  a  smooth  paste,  leaving  sides  of  the  sauce- 
pan clean.  When  cool  break  the  eggs  into  the  mixture  1  at 
a  time,  beating  each  one  thoroughly  in  before  adding  the 
next.  When  all  are  in,  add  the  baking  powder  and  drop  in 
spoonfuls  on  baking  tins  some  distance  apart.  Bake  slowly 
about  %  hour,  or  until  the  cakes  feel  very  light.  When  cold 
remove  soft  inside  portion  and  fill  with  the  whipped  cream. 
— Mrs.  D.  H.  Mangum. 

SPONGE-CAKE     CASES     WITH     STRAWBERRIES. 

Bake  sponge-cake  mixture  in  small  tins ;  when  cold  cut 
a  piece  from  the  center  and  fill  with  strawberries.  Pile 
whipped  cream  around  the  edges  and  on  the  top.  Any  other 
fruit  may  be  used. 


144  DESSERTS 

MABSHMALLOW    SOUFFLE. 

One-half  box  gelatine,  whites  6  eggs,  li/o  cups  sugar,  14 
cake  chocolate  (melted).  Soak  gelatine  in  %  cup  cold  water, 
dissolve  in  1  cup  boiling  water;  beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  then 
gelatine.  Divide  in  3  parts ;  color  1  part  pink,  1  part  add 
chocolate,  1  part  white.  Mould  in  square,  deep  pan,  putting 
in  pink,  white  and  brown.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  B.  J.  Corbitt. 

ORIENTAL  PUDDING. 

One  pint  thick  whipped  cream,  %  cup  Irish  moss,  %  cup 
preserved  ginger,  l/o  cup  powdered  sugar,  i/o  cup  boiled 
rice.  Stir  the  ginger  chopped  fine  with  2  tablespoons  lemon 
juice.  Boil  10  minutes  ginger,  water  and  sugar.  Beat  the 
eggs  and  pour  syrup  on  them,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add 
lemon  juice,  beat  thoroughly  and  chill  on  ice. 

PINEAPPLE    CREAM. 

Beat  yolks  of  3  eggs,  slightly  and  add  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  1  lemon,  y2  'cup  sugar  and  few  grains  salt.  Cook 
over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  V/2  tablespoons  of  gelatine  soaked 
in  i/o  cup  cold  water,  2-3  cup  of  grated  pineapple,  %  cup 
heavy  cream  beaten  stiff,  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten.  Turn  into  a 
mold  and  chill. — Mrs.  Cora  Phelps. 

APRICOT    SOUFFLE. 

Put  one  can  of  apricots  through  a  colander,  then  beat  in  a 
saucepan  with  V2  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
till  stiff  and  beat  the  fruit  pulp  into  them.  Pour  into  cus- 
tard cups  or  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
till  firm  and  slightly  browned.  Serve  with  boiled  custard 
sauce  made  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 


DESSERTS  145 

PRUNE   SOUFFLE A  TURKISH   DAINTY. 

One-half  pound  prunes,  whites  of  5  eggs,  6  tablespoons 
granulated  sugar.  Soak  the  prunes  in  cold  water  to  cover  for 
6  hours,  then  stew  until  tender ;  drain  and  chop  finely.  Add 
the  sugar  and  beat  to  a  paste.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until 
stiff ;  add  to  the  prune  paste  and  bake  about  V2  an  hour  in  a 
hot  oven.     Serve  at  once  with  whipped  cream. 

BAVARIAN    CREAM. 

One-half  box  gelatine,  1  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  ^  cup  sugar, 
2  teaspoons  vanilla,  14  cup  wine.  Soak  gelatine  in  a  little 
water;  put  on  milk  to  boil;  beat  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar; 
add  to  milk;  also  add  gelatine  to  milk  before  adding  beaten 
yolks.  After  boiling  thick  take  from  fire.  Beat  to  a  stiff 
froth  the  whites,  adding  the  yellow  mixture  gradually; 
flavor  with  the  flavoring ;  put  in  wet  moulds  and  set  in  icebox. 
To  be  eaten  with  either  whipped  cream  and  wine  or  plain 
cream  and  sugar. — Mrs.  Woodruff,  Rahway,  N.  J. 

PINEAPPLE    BAVARIAN    CREAM. 

Heat  1  small  can  of  grated  pineapple  with  the  juice  of  1 
lemon.  Wet  2  tablespoons  of  gelatine  in  cold  water,  when 
swelled  and  soft  pour  the  hot  pineapple  mixture  over  gela- 
tine and  stir  till  all  is  dissolved.  Set  in  a  pan  of  ice  water. 
Stir  occasionally  and  just  as  it  begins  to  jelly  beat  in  %  pint 
of  cream,  whipped  stiff.  Pour  into  wet  moulds  and  serve 
cold. 


—10 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 


APRICOT   ICE   CREAM. 


Make  custard  of  1  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  and  %  pint 
milk.  After  this  gets  thoroughly  cold,  add  1  pint  cream,  1 
cup  sugar,  2  cups  cooked  apricots.  Press  apricots  through 
colander  after  cold,  then  put  into  freezer.  This  is  for  2-qt. 
freezer. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tull,  Phila. 

FROZEN    CUSTARD. 

Make  custard  of  small  cup  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  1  pint  milk,  l/o  cup  raisins,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  %  cup 
cherries,  1  cup  sugar,  citron  cut  fine,  1  quart  cream,  l^  cup 
sherry  wine.  Stir  cream  hard  into  custard  after  it  has 
frozen  10  minutes,  then  add  fruit  and  wine.  This  is  for  a 
2-qt.  freezer. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tull,  Phila. 

ICE    CREAM. 

Soak  !/o  box  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  10  minutes. 
Place  on  fire  and  stir  until  smooth — remove,  and  stir  until 
cold.  Add  beaten  whites  of  8  eggs,  1  pound  sugar,  1  pint 
sherry  wine,  %  gallon  of  cream  whipped.  Freeze.  Nuts 
or  cherries  may  be  added. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Kittrell. 

GRAPE   ICE    CREAM 

One  quart  of  unfermented  grape  juice,  1  quart  of  cream, 
1  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 

CARAMEL    ICE    CREAM. 

One  quart  cream,  2  quarts  milk,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1 
cup  granulated  sugar,  y±  pound  shelled  almonds ;  flavor  with 
vanilla.  "Whip  the  cream  and  put  in  a  gallon  freezer,  slightly 
brown  the  sugar  in  a  saucepan  and  then  add  a  little  water 
and  cook  until   all  the  lumps  have  disappeared.      Add  to 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  147 

this  the  almonds  after  blanching  and  pounding,  then  add 
this  to  the  cream,  then  the  milk.  Flavor  and  freeze. — Mrs. 
R.  J.  Corbitt. 

ICE    CREAM. 

To  each  quart  milk  put  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar;  beat  eggs  and 
sugar  together;  let  milk  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  sugar 
and  eggs.  If  jou  make  as  much  as  1  gallon  you  can  just 
heat  enough  milk  to  scald  eggs,  then  add  the  balance;  if  you 
add  fruit  wait  till  it  starts  to  freeze.  For  chocolate  cream 
cook  cocoa  in  the  milk. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wester. 

NEAPOLITAN"  ICE   CREAM. 

Two  quarts  of  cream,  1  pound  of  sugar,  3  eggs.  Place  the 
cream  in  a  bright  copper  pan,  add  the  sugar,  beat  the  eggs 
well  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Mix  well.  Set  on  fire  and  stir 
well  with  egg-beater  until  it  starts  to  boil ;  remove  from  fire ; 
strain  through  a  fine  sieve;  cool  and  freeze.  Split  1  vanilla 
bean  and  boil  %  with  mixture.  If  lemon  flavoring  is  desired 
stir  into  the  hot  cream  the  grated  rind  of  2  lemons.  Orange 
same  as  lemon. — Miss  Sarah  Edwards. 

ORANGE    ICE    CREAM. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  juice  of  9  oranges,  grated  rind 
of  2  of  them,  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  quart  of  cream,  3  quarts 
of  milk,  4  eggs.  Make  custard  of  milk,  eggs  and  3  cups  of 
sugar,  add  gelatine  previously  soaked  in  !/>  pint  of  the  milk 
until  soft.  When  cold,  add  cream  and  put  in  freezer  and 
freeze  partly,  and  then  add  the  orange  juice  and  lemons. 
Freeze  hard  and  pack  carefully. — Mrs.  Edgar  Bryan. 

OLD-FASHIONED   BOILED    CUSTARD. 


Allow  5  eggs  to  1  quart  of  milk,  tablespoon  of  sugar  to 
each  egg.  Set  the  milk  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  until  it 
scalds ;  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  3  eggs  well,  adding  the 


148  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

sugar.  After  dripping  a  little  of  the  milk  on  the  eggs  and 
beating  up,  turn  into  the  scalding  milk  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.  Take  the  remaining  whites  and  beat  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  sweeten  a  little.  Have-  a  pan  of  boiling  water; 
place  egg  on  top  of  the  water  and  let  steam.  When  custard 
is  cold  fill  custard  cups  and  place  meringue  on  top. — Miss 
Sarah  Edwards. 

PINEAPPLE   ICE    CREAM. 

To  1  can  of  grated  pineapple  add  the  juice  of  ^  a  lemon 
and  a  small  cup  of  sugar;  when  thoroughly  dissolved  add  1 
pint  of  cream  and  1  quart  of  milk,  and  freeze. 

FROZEN    PUDDING. 

One-third  of  pound  each  of  raisins,  currants,  and  citron, 
stoned  and  cut  fine,  half  a  pound  blanched  almonds,  pounded 
to  a  paste ;  soak  all  in  2  wineglasses  of  wine  all  night.  Make 
a  syrup  of  1  pint  water  and  1  pound  sugar.  When  it  comes 
to  a  boil  put  in  the  fruit  and  wine  and  let  boil  several  min- 
utes. Make  a  custard  of  2  quarts  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs 
and  1/2  cup  sugar.  When  both  are  cool  mix  together.  Just 
before  freezing  add  a  quart  of  rich  cream  whipped  stiff,  to 
which  the  whites  of  3  eggs  have  been  added.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  and  a  half  a  glass  of  brandy. 

NUT    BISQUE. 

Make  a  syrup  of  1^  cups  sugar  and  1  gill  of  water  boiled 
5  minutes.  Pour  this  while  boiling  hot  over  the  beaten  yolks 
of  8  eggs  and  cook  over  boiling  water.  Whisk  constantly 
for  10  minutes  or  from  10  to  20  if  not  stiff.  Stir  in  1  quart 
of  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla.  Add  14  pound  of 
shelled  and  grated  nuts.  Pack  into  a  watertight  mould,  pack 
ice  and  salt  around  it  and  let  freeze  4  hours  at  least ;  8  or  10 
is  better. 

BISQUE    CEEAM SIX    QUARTS. 

Dissolve  half  box  of  gelatine  in  water  and  1  pound  of  mac- 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  149 

caroons  or  vanilla  wafers  in  light  wine,  2!/2  quarts  milk,  2 
cups  of  sugar  heated  nearly  to  boiling  point  and  poured  over 
gelatine.  When  cold  mix  with  cake;  flavor  with  vanilla, 
and  when  it  commences  to  freeze  add  1  quart  of  cream, 
whipped  with  cup  or  more  of  sugar,  and  freeze  hard. — Mrs. 
D.  Y.  Cooper. 

BUTTERMILK    ICE    CREAM. 

One  quart  fresh  buttermilk,  %  pint  of  sweet  or  sour  cream, 
sugar  to  taste.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  freeze. — Mrs.  B.  L. 
Wester. 

MARASCHINO  ICE  CREAM. 

One  quart  of  cream,  y%  pound  of  sugar,  4  tablespoons  of 
lemon  juice,  2  gills  of  maraschino.  Mix  lemon  juice  and 
sugar,  stir  into  cream  and  freeze;  when  frozen  stir  in  the 
maraschino,  repack  and  stand  aside  for  2  hours.  Serve  on 
fancy  plates  with  a  few  cherries  in  the  center  of  each. — Mrs. 
J.  E.  Patterson. 

VANILLA   ICE   CREAM. 

One-half  gallon  milk,  6  eggs.  Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil. 
Beat  eggs  separately,  then  mix  and  stir  into  milk  and  stir 
until  it  thickens.  Sweeten  to  taste  while  hot.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  and  when  cold  freeze. 

PEACH   ICE   CREAM. 

Make  as  above,  omitting  vanilla  and  adding  1  pint  or  more 
of  mashed  and  sweetened  peaches  which  have  stood  for  an 
hour  or  longer.  Strain  through  a  colander  and  add  to 
cream  when  half-frozen. 

TUTTI    FRUTTI    ICE    CREAM. 

Two  quarts  cream,  1  pound  pulverized  sugar,  4  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  preserved  fruits,  peaches,  pineapples,  cher- 
ries, grapes,  apricots,  strawberries,  etc.  Mix  cream,  sugar 
and  eggs  well,  stir  constantly  over  the  fire  until  they  come  to 


150  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

the  boiling  point;  remove  immediately;  pour  into  a  deep 
bowl  and  stir  untily  nearly  cold.  Flavor  with  vanilla  and 
when  quite  cold  pour  into  freezer.  When  half-frozen  stir 
into  it  1  pound  of  preserved  fruits  of  all  kinds  desired,  using 
equal  parts  of  each  and  having  them  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Mix  well  and  finish  freezing. 

FROZEN   PLUM   PUDDING. 

Soak  over  night  2  cups  of  raisins  chopped  fine  in  1  pint 
of  cream.  Make  an  old-fashioned  custard,  to  which  add  2 
cups  of  chopped  pecans  and  the  raisins.  Beat  1  quart  of 
pure  cream  stiff  and  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Pour  custard  in  freezer  and  partly  freeze.  Then  add  cream. 
If  desired  use  1  cup  of  cherries,  1  cup  of  crystalized  ginger 
and  1  cup  of  orange  peel.  Freeze  and  pack  some  time  be- 
fore serving. — Mrs.  J.  E.  C.  Bell. 

ROMAN    PUNCH. 

Three  quarts  milk,  1  pint  cream,  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  1 
tumblerful  sherry,  1-3  box  gelatine.  Cover  the  gelatine  with 
part  of  the  cold  milk  and  let  stand  for  an  hour  or  more. 
Scald  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  then  put  the  sugar  and  gela- 
tine into  it,  and  stir  until  dissolved;  when  cool  put  into  a 
freezer  and  partly  freeze ;  then  add  the  whites  of  the  egg 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  the  sherry;  stir  together  well  and 
freeze. 

FROZEN    FRUIT. 

One  and  one-half  dozen  oranges,  9  bananas,  if  large,  1 
dozen  if  small,  juice  of  4  lemons,  1  can  of  grated  pineapple, 
malaga  grapes  or  cherries  as  preferred,  one  cup  grape  juice; 
sweeten  to  taste.  Be  sure  to  make  rather  sweet.  Slice 
bananas,  use  only  juice  and  pulp  of  oranges.  If  grapes  are 
used  cut  them  in  halves  and  extract  the  seed ;  if  cherries,  put 
them  in  whole.  Put  in  a  freezer  without  the  dasher,  and 
pack  in  ice  and  salt.     After  an  hour  and  a  half,  repack,  and 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  151 

after  that  repack  every  two  hours,  until  time  to  serve.     It 
should  be  packed  6  or  8  hours. — Mrs.  Henry  Perry. 

CHOCOLATE   ICE   CREAM. 

One  quart  milk,  2  small  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1 
tablespoon  flour,  2  ounces  Baker's  chocolate,  1  quart  of  cream, 
vanilla  to  taste.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs,  sugar 
and  flour.  Dissolve  chocolate  over  steam  of  teakettle ;  add  to 
the  custard,  strain,  add  the  cream  and  freeze. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

Beat  well  together  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar  and  2  even  table- 
spoons of  sifted  flour.  Add  this  to  1  pint  of  boiling  milk, 
and  let  boil  for  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  this 
cools,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  cream  and  1  cup  of  black 
coffee. 

VIOLET  PARFAIT. 

One  cup  sugar  and  %  cup  water  boiled  until  the  soft  ball 
stage.  Pour  on  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  beat  until  cold, 
flavor  with  1  teaspoon  violet  extract  and  fold  in  1  pint  of 
cream  beaten  solid.  Turn  into  mould  and  bury  in  salt  and 
ice  for  4  hours.  Serve  with  a  border  of  whipped  cream  and 
candied  violets. 

PINEAPPLE,,    ORANGE    AND    LEMON    ICE    CREAM. 

Three  oranges,  3  lemons,  1  can  of  pineapple  chunks,  1 
quart  cream,  3  cups  sugar,  2  quarts  milk.  Grate  just  a  little 
of  the  outer  rind  of  the  orange,  then  shred  the  pulp,  being 
careful  not  to  get  in  any  of  the  white  part.  Shred  the  pine- 
apple, add  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  whip  cream  with  sugar, 
fruit  and  milk  and  freeze. — Mrs.  R.  J.  Corbitt. 

MAPLE   PARFAIT. 

One  quart  thick  cream,  li/o  cups  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  12 
eggs.     Whip  cream  and  drain  thoroughly ;  for  even  a  few 


152  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

drops  of  liquid  cream  will  spoil  the  parf ait.  Put  syrup  in 
a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs  very  light  and  add  to  the  hot 
syrup,  stirring  until  smooth  and  glossy.  When  cool  add  to 
the  cream ;  mix  thoroughly,  put  into  a  mold  (coffee  can  is 
good),  and  plunge  in  ice  and  salt  for  5  hours.  Serve  in 
glasses  with  white  sponge-cake  made  from  the  unused  whites. 
Bake  cake  in  sheets,  ice  and  cut  into  squares.  While  icing  is 
soft,  cover  with  grating  of  nutmeg.  This  flavor  blends  well 
with  the  maple. — Mrs.  T.  M.  Pittman. 

FRAPPE. 

One  quart  sweet  milk,  juice  3  lemons,  1  pint  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  gelatine  dissolved  in  %  cup  boiling  water.  Chill 
milk  in  freezer  a  few  seconds,  then  add  lemon  (that  has 
been  strained),  sugar  and  gelatine;  freeze.  If  desired,  add  a 
pink  tablet  in  the  gelatine  to  color  this.  Any  kind  of  fruit 
crushed  may  be  added  also. 

GRAPE- JUICE  ICE. 

One  pint  grape  juice,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  water,  1  lemon. 
Make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  water  and  lemon,  and  pour  on  the 
beated  whites  of  2  eggs.  Let  stand  a  while  and  add  enough 
water  to  make  %  gallon.  Freeze.  Serve  in  tall  glasses, 
using  grapes  and  leaves  to  garnish. — Mrs.  B.  J.  Corbitt. 

RED   RASPBERRY   ICE. 

One  quart  fresh  or  canned  raspberries  rubbed  through 
a  sieve,  IV2  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  ll/o  pints  water. 
Pour  ingredients  together  and  let  boil  3  minutes;  mix  with 
fruit.  Strain.  Freeze,  and  just  when  beginning  to  freezer 
add  the  white  of  a  well  beaten  egg.  I  use  1  quart  to  V/2 
quarts  of  water,  and  if  in  a  hurry  do  not  boil. — Mrs  B.  A. 
White. 

GRAPE  SHERBET. 

For  8  persons  mix  1  pint  of  grape  juice  (unfermented), 


FEOZEN  DESSEETS  153 

juice  of  lemon  and  1  neaping  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  boiling  water;  freeze  quickly;  add  beaten  white 
of  1  egg  just  before  finish. 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 

Eind  of  2  oranges,  juice  of  2  lemons,  juice  of  4  oranges,  1 
pint  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  water;  strain  and  freeze.  When 
half  frozen,  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Continue 
freezing  until  stiff,  then  pack  and  let  stand  an  hour  or  two 
before  serving. 

LEMON   SHERBET. 

Put  to  boil  in  a  clean  basin  2  scant  quarts  of  water  and  1 
pint  of  sugar;  cook  until  clear,  skimming  if  necessary. 
Meanwhile  squeeze  6  lemons  and  grate  a  little  of  the  yellow 
peel  into  the  juice.  Dissolve  a  tablespoon  of  gelatine  into 
a  quarter  cup  of  cold  water,  heating  it  over  the  teakettle. 
When  the  syrup  is  clear,  pour  into  the  lemon  juice  all  the 
gelatine,  cool  and  freeze.  The  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  gelatine  to  give  the  ice  body,  if 
preferred. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  together  for  5  minutes  2  cups 
water  and  1  cup  granulated  sugar.  Add  the  juice  of  1 
lemon  and  a  can  of  grated  pineapple.  Freeze  slowly  and 
pack  as  usual.  This  quantity  makes  enough  to  serve  six 
persons. 

APRICOT  SHERBET. 

One  quart  can  apricots,  1  lemon,  %  pound  sugar,  1  quart 
water.  Boil  sugar  and  water  5  minutes.  Crush  apricots 
through  a  sieve.  Add  to  the  syrup  while  hot.  When  cold, 
freeze. 

LEMON  WATER-ICE. 

Four  large  lemons,  1  orange,  1  quart  water,  iy4  pounds 
sugar.     Put  the  sugar  and  water  on  to  boil,  chip  the  yellow 


154  FROZEN  DESSERTS 

rind  from  3  lemons  and  the  orange,  add  to  the  syrup,  boil  5 
minutes  and  stand  away  to  cool.  Squeeze  the  juice  from  the 
orange  and  lemons ;  add  to  the  cool  syrup ;  strain  through 
thin  cloth,  and  freeze.  Pack  freezer  same  as  for  ice  cream, 
but  the  water-ice  must  not  be  stirred  continually.  Give  the 
crank  a  few  turns,  then  let  it  rest;  turn  slowly  again  as 
before  and  rest  again,  and  so  continue  until  the  ice  is 
frozen. 

PEACH    ICE. 

Small  basket  peaches,  1  quart  water,  2  cups  sugar,  1 
lemon.  Let  the  sugar,  water  and  some  of  the  peach  stones 
come  to  a  boil ;  remove  from  fire.  Peel  and  cut  up  peaches, 
put  through  a  colander.  Add  lemon  juice  and  peach  pulp  to 
the  sugar  and  water.  Take  out  peach  stones,  and  freeze. 
When  half  frozen,  add  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg. 


CHEESE 

CHEESE   STEAWS. 

Hub  together  1  quart  flour  (sifted),  1  pound  grated  cheese, 
2  tablespoonfuls  lard,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper — enough  water 
to  hold  together.  Roll  and  cut  in  thin  strips. — Miss  Julia 
M.  Cooper. 

CHEESE   STRAWS. 

One  cup  grated  cheese,  ^  cup  of  butter,  i/o  CUP  °f  flour, 
1  small  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Roll 
them  and  cut  in  narrow  strips  5  or  6  inches  long.  Put  in  a 
cold  place  for  a  few  moments.  Bake  5  minutes  to  a  light 
brown. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Thomson. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

Three  tablespoons  flour,  3  tablespoons  butter,  3  eggs,  1  cup 
milk,  1  cup  grated  cheese,  seasoning  to  taste.  Make  a  thick 
white  sauce,  by  blending  butter  and  flour  in  a  saucepan, 
then  adding  the  milk  and  stirring  until  boiling.  Cook  3 
minutes,  then  stir  in  the  cheese  and  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until 
thick.  Season  to  taste  remembering  that  the  cheese  may  be 
salt.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  tbake 
in  a  greased  dish  about  25  minutes.  Serve  quickly,  as  it 
soon  falls. — Miss  Maria  WatJcins. 

CHEESE    CUPS. 

When  bread  rolls  are  left  over  from  a  meal,  cut  in  half, 
scoop  out  the  soft  portion  and  miter  the  surface,  crisping 
them  in  the  oven.  Fill  with  this  cheese  mixture.  In  a 
saucepan  melt  a  cup  of  cheese  in  small  pieces  and  add  slowly 
a  cup  of  milk.  Have  ready  2  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and 
when  mixture  begins  to  thicken  stir  in  these.  Add  salt,  pep- 
per, teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  serve  in  bread 
cups.     Pastry  cups  or  slices  of  toast  will  answer  as  well. 


156  CHEESE 

SAVORY    CHEESE   TOAST. 

This  is  a  delicious  hot  luncheon  dish  and  the  cost  is  but  a 
trifle.  Simmer  together  for  10  minutes  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  sweet  red  pepper 
(canned),  one  bay  leaf,  a  minced  onion  and  a  stalk  of  minced 
celery;  then  strain  into  a  scant  pint  of  cream  sauce  (stirring 
in  a  tiny  pinch  of  baking  soda  to  prevent  curdling)  and  add 
a  large  cupful  of  grated  cheese;  cook  only  until  the  cheese  is 
melted  and  pour  over  crisp  circles  of  buttered  toast.  Serve 
immediately. 

CHEESE    CUSTARDS. 

Chop  very  finely  a  scant  pound  of  cheese  and  beat  thor- 
oughly into  it  1  at  a  time  3  eggs  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
cream;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  celery  salt  and 
turn  into  buttered  timbale  molds  that  have  been  placed  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water,  baking  for  about  20  minutes,  or  until  firm. 
Serve  very  hot  accompanied  by  brown  bread  sandwiches. 

CHEESE    BALLS   WITH   TOMATO   SATTCE. 

Mix  together  2  cupfuls  of  grated  cheese,  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  pepper  and  1  cupful 
of  crumbled  stale  bread ;  then  add  1  egg,  beat  lightly  and  a 
few  drops  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  forming  into  small  balls; 
roll  quickly  in  crushed  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat  to 
a  golden  brown.  Serve  on  triangles  of  buttered  toast  and 
pour  over  them  a  tomato  sauce. 

WELSH    RAREBIT. 

One  pound  of  chopped  American  cheese,  %  glass  of  ale, 
yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  1  teaspoon  of  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  a  dash  of  red  and 
same  of  black  pepper,  and  if  you  like  it  hot  a  few  drops  of 
Tobasco.  Put  the  butter  in  the  pan  and  when  it  gets  hot  put 
in  cheese;  stir  constantly  and  gradually  add  the  ale.     When 


CHEESE  157 

well  mixed  add  the  egg  with  seasoning  beaten  in;  stir  in  and 
pour  over  toast  or  crackers. — Mrs.  Cora  Phelps. 

WELSH    RAREBIT. 

Two  cups  of  grated  cheese,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Put  the  milk  in  a  granite  saucepan,  when  boiling 
hot,  add  the  cheese,  stir  until  melted,  then  add  a  spoon  of  but- 
ter, salt,  pepper  and  eggs.  As  soon  as  it  boils  take  off  and 
serve  hot.  It  is  a  nice  spread  on  hot  toast  and  served. — 
Mrs.  Zollicoffer. 

CHEESE  AND  EGG  PATTIES. 

Remove  every  particle  of  the  soft  interior  of  puff  paste 
patties,  placing  in  the  bottom  of  each  a  tablespoonful  of 
grated  cheese,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  minced  parsley  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice;  break  an 
egg  carefully  in  each  over  the  cheese  mixture;  sprinkling 
again  with  salt,  pepper  and  cheese,  replace  the  pattie  tops 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  eggs  are  set,  covering 
with  brown  paper  to  prevent  scorching.  Serve  on  a  heated 
chop  platter  garnished  with  pimolas  and  parsley. 

CHEESE    FONDIJ. 

Prepare  a  rich  cream  sauce  by  melting  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  the  chafing-dish  and  then  adding  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  and  when  smooth  a  cupful  of  rich  milk;  stir  the 
sauce  until  it  boils,  and  add'  a  small  cupful  of  grated  bread 
crumbs,  a  few  drops  of  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  large 
cupful  of  grated  cheese,  stirring  rapidly  until  the  cheese  is 
melted  and  seasoning  with  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  French  mustard;  now  remove  from  the  fire 
and  quickly  beat  in  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  serve  immediately 
on  heated  pilot  biscuit  or  saltines. 


BEVERAGES 


COCOA. 

The  usual  rule  is  1  teaspoon  cocoa  to  each  cup.  Mix  dry 
cocoa  with  little  cold  water,  add  scalded  milk  or  boiling 
water  and  boil  1  minute. 

CHOCOLATE. 

One  square  unsweetened  chocolate,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  hot  water.  Grate  chocolate,  boil  all  together 
till  smooth,  add  gradually  1  pint  scalded  milk,  cook  in  double 
boiler  5  minutes.  Some  like  to  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  It 
can  be  made  stronger  by  using  more  chocolate. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE. 

Crush  2  ounces  chocolate,  melt  over  hot  water,  add  1  cup 
boiling  water  and  4  tablespoons  of  sugar;  stir  until  smooth 
and  glossy,  then  add  3  cups  scalded  milk.  Boil  10  minutes, 
beating  constantly. 

MAKSHMALLOWS   IN   COCOA. 

When  serving  cocoa,  if  one  cannot  afford  whipped  cream, 
or  happens  to  be  out  of  cream,  two  marshmallows  dropped 
in  each  cup  of  cocoa  will  be  equally  as  good  as  the  cream 
and  the  substitute  will  never  be  detected. 

TEA. 

Water  for  tea  should  be  freshly  heated  and  just  boiling. 
Teas  are  of  differing  strengths,  but  a  safe  rule  is  1  teaspoon 
dry  tea  to  %  pint  boiling  water.  Scald  teapot;  put  in  dry 
tea  and  cover  for  1  minute.  Add  boiling  water,  cover  closely ; 
let  stand  3  to  6  minutes,  strain  off  into  second  hot  pot.  A 
wadded  cozy  will  keep  tea  hot  for  a  long  time  off  the  fire. 


BEVERAGES  159 

MINT  CUP. 

Ginger  ale  makes  the  foundation.     Squeeze  the  juice  from 

5  lemons  and  add  l1/^  cups  of  sugar  and  ^  cup  water.  Add 
the  leaves  from  one  bunch  fresh  mint  and  let  stand  30  minutes. 
Add  a  large  piece  of  ice  and  3  bottles  of  ginger  ale. — Miss 
Julia  M.  Cooper. 

HOME-MAKING   OF   UNFEKMENTED   GRAPE    JUICE. 

Use  clean,  sound,  well  ripe  grapes.  Crush  and  let  strain 
through  a  cloth  sack.  This  sack  may  be  twisted  iby  2  people 
to  express  the  juice.  Heat  the  juice  in  a  double  boiler  to 
nearly  boiling  point.  If  a  thermometer  is  used,  never  heat 
above  200  degrees  Fahrenheit.  If  no  thermometer  is  used, 
heat  until  it  steams.  Then  put  in  a  glass,  earthen  or  enamel 
dish  and  allow  to  settle  for  24  hours.  Carefully  drain  and 
run  it  through  several  thicknesses  of  clean  flannel.  Then 
put  into  sterilized  bottles  or  glass  jars  (sterilize  the  same  as 
for  fruit  canning).  Leave  a  little  space  at  the  top  of  the 
bottle  or  can  for  the  juice  to  expand  as  it  heats.  Put  a  thin 
board  or  wire  meat  rack  in  the  bottom  of  a  wash-boiler  (use 
a  smaller  vessel  if  a  small  quantity  of  juice  is  to  be  canned). 
Set  the  filled  bottles  or  glass  jars  on  the  rack,  fill  with  cold 
water  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top,  and  heat  until  about  to  sim- 
mer. Then  salt  immediately.  If  bottles  are  used,  melt  seal- 
ing wax  and  pour  over  the  corks,  allowing  it  to  come  down 
over  the  mouth  of  the  bottle.  This  fills  all  the  pores  of  the 
cork.  This  makes  a  light  colored  grape  juice.  If  a  red 
article  is  desired,  crush  and  heat  the  grapes  before  straining 
through  a  cloth. 

FRUIT    PUNCH. 

One  ounce  of  Ceylon  tea,  2  pounds  sugar,  1  dozen  lemons, 

6  oranges,  1  pint  grated  pineapple,  1  teaspoon  bitter  almond 
extract,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  pint  maraschino  cherries,  3 
bananas,  3  quarts  apollinaris  water.  Put  the  tea  in  a 
pitcher  and  pour  1  quart  boiling  water,  cover  and  let  stand  20 


160  BEVERAGES 

minutes,  then  strain.  Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  half  of  the 
lemons  and  oranges,  add  the  gratings  to  the  sugar,  put  sugar 
in  tea  and  let  boil  in  a  saucepan  5  minutes.  Strain  into  a 
stone  jar  and  let  stand  all  night.  Next  morning  add  the 
other  ingredients  with  exception  of  the  appollinaris  water. 
When  ready  to  serve  turn  into  punch  bowl  over  a  good-size 
piece  of  ice  and  add  apollinaris  water. — Mrs.  T.  B.  Manning. 

A   MARASCHINO    PUNCH. 

Boil  together  1  quart  of  water,  1  pound  of  sugar  for  5  min- 
utes; add  the  grated  rind  of  2  lemons  and  4  oranges  to  the 
syrup.  To  this  add  1  quart  of  cold  water,  2  sliced  tangerines, 
1  sliced  banana,  ^  of  a  pineapple  sliced  fine,  30  malaga 
grapes  cut  in  two  and  seeded,  and  1  pint  bottle  of  maraschino 
cherries  with  their  liquor.  Pour  this  mixture  over  a  block  of 
ice  in  the  punch  bowl  or  have  a  solid  block  of  ice  with  a  bowl- 
shaped  hole  in  the  center  to  use  instead  of  punch  bowl. — 
Mrs.  J.  E.  Patterson. 

FRUIT    PUNCH. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  y%  cup  of  orange  juice,  1  cup  of  straw- 
berry juice,  1  cup  of  water,  l^  cup  of  lemon  juice,  1  cup  of 
pineapple  juice,  i/o  cup  of  maraschino  cherries.  Boil  the 
sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup  and  add  the  fruit  juices.  Let 
stand  20  minutes ;  strain  and  chill ;  add  the  whole  cherries. 
Sweeten  or  weaken  if  neessary  to  taste  and  serve  ice  cold.  It 
will  rarely  need  reducing  with  water  unless  the  juices  of 
preserved  fruits  have  been  used. — Mortimer  Elmore. 

LEMON   GINGER   PUNCH. 

Make  a  strong  lemonade  allowing  5  lemons  and  a  cupful  of 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  water.  Let  the  sugar  stand  on  the  sliced 
lemons  for  an  hour  before  adding  the  water.  To  every  quart 
of  lemonade  allow  1  quart  of  ginger  ale.  Put  into  a  punch 
bowl  in  which  is  a  piece  of  ice.  Have  a  number  of  sprays 
of  mint,  bruise  the  stems  and  lower  leaves  between  the  fingers 


BEVEKAGES  161 

so  as  to  bring  out  the  flavor.     Put  these  sprays  in  the  punch 
half  an  hour  before  serving. 

GEAPE    WINE. 

Wash  grapes  thoroughly.  Press  with  hands,  or  run 
through  cider  press.  Strain  juice  through  a  thin  cloth  and 
leave  in  an  open  vessel  for  24  hours.  Then  skin  carefully 
and  add  3  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  juice  (having 
melted  sugar  on  stove  with  just  enough  water  to  melt) .  Put 
in  keg  or  demijohn  and  stop  tight.  Insert  a  quill  in  the  cork 
and  put  a  siphon  over  the  quill  and  drop  the  other  end  of 
siphon  in  bottle  of  water.  Must  not  be  fermented  openly  at 
all.  After  6  months  bottle.  If  dry  wine  is  desired,  use  only 
2  pounds  of  sugar  to  a  gallon  of  juice. — Mrs.  Sam  Peace. 

BLACKBEBEY  CORDIAL. 

One  quart  berry  juice,  1  pound  white  sugar,  l/o  ounce 
grated  nutmeg,  ^  ounce  of  allspice,  ^4  ounce  of  cloves,  ^ 
ounce  of  cinnamon  (all  powdered),  1  pint  of  best  brandy. 
Tie  spice  in  thin  muslin  bags;  boil  juice,  sugar  and  spices 
together  for  15  minutes,  skim  well,  add  brandy  and  set  aside 
in  closely  covered  vessels  to  cool.  When  cold  strain,  bottle, 
cork  and  seal. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

SCUPPERNONG  WINE. 

One  bushel  of  grapes,  5  gallons  of  water.  Let  stand  3  or  4 
days  and  strain.  To  each  gallon  of  the  juice  put  3  pounds 
of  sugar.  Put  in  jugs  and  tie  muslin  over  the  mouths,  and 
when  all  fermentation  ceases,  strain,  bottle  and  seal. — Mrs. 
W.  H.  Jenkins. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

To  a  bucket  of  berries  pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water.     Let 
stand  until  next  day.     Strain  through  sieve  and  the  bag.     To 
—11 


162  BEVERAGES 

each  gallon  of  juice  allow  3  pounds  of  sugar.  Pour  in  large 
stone  jars  and  when  all  fermentation  ceases,  strain,  bottle 
and  seal.  Or  to  bucket  of  berries  pour  1  quart  of  boiling 
water,  and  strain  third  day  as  above.  To  every  quart  of 
juice  add  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  to  every  gallon  of  this 
mixture  add  3  pounds  of  sugar.  Put  in  stone  jars  and  when 
fermentation  ceases,  strain  and  bottle. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Jenkins. 

BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

To  1  peck  of  berries  cover  with  3  quarts  boiling  water ;  let 
stand  24  hours ;  then  mash,  strain  well,  and  to  every  gallon 
juice  add  3  pounds  sugar;  let  ferment,  skimming  each  day 
for  10  days ;  then  strain  and  jug. 

BLACKBERRY   ACID. 

Pick  the  berries,  it  is  better  not  to  wash  them,  only  wipe ; 
cover  with  the  best  vinegar  and  allow  to  stand  24  hours.  Then 
crush  berries  in  the  vinegar,  strain  well.  Allow  1  cup  of  this 
liquid  juice  to  1  cup  of  sugar.  Put  on  stove  and  boil  hard 
for  10  minutes.  Bottle  and  use  paraffine  wax  on  tops.  Not 
intoxicating,  but  a  fine  beverage  to  drink  with  cake.  A  good 
liver  medicine. — Mrs.  Jas.  R.  Rankin. 

SCUPPERNONG  GRAPE,  OR  BLACKBERRY  WINE. 

One-half  as  much  water  as  fruit.  Mash  all  together. 
Strain  through  cheesecloth.  Add  3  pounds  of  sugar  to  a 
gallon  of  juice.  Put  in  jug,  cover  with  cheesecloth  and  let 
set,  without  stirring,  one  month.  Draw  off  tube,  bottle  and 
cork. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Parham. 


COCKTAILS 

OYSTER    COCKTAIL. 

Two  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  1  tablespoon  horse-radish, 
1  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  paprika, 
Tabasco  juice  few  drops.  Mix  thoroughly  and  serve  with 
1  pint  oysters. — Miss  Laurine  Dorsey. 

OYSTER   COCKTAIL. 

One  quart  fresh  oysters  from  which  the  water  has  been 
strained,  Tabasco  sauce,  1  teaspoon;  horse-radish,  7  tea- 
spoons ;  tomato  catsup,  7  teaspoons ;  lemon  juice,  10  tea- 
spoons. Put  oysters  in  cocktail  glasses;  mix  the  dressing 
and  pour  over  oysters  when  ready  to  serve.  This  serves  12 
people. — Mrs.  Henry  Powell. 

PEPPER    COCKTAIL. 

Select  medium-sized  green  peppers ;  cut  off  the  stem  end 
and  remove  the  seeds.  Throw  the  peppers  into  ice  water  until 
crisp.  Skin  3  tomatoes,  and  cut  them  into  dice,  add  to  the 
dieed  tomato  1  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soy,  the  strained  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  pinch 
of  celery  seed.  At  serving  time,  stand  the  pepper  in  small 
saucers  of  cracked  ice.  Fill  each  half  full  with  the  tomato 
mixture,  put  on  the  top  and  serve. 

GRAPEFRUIT  COCKTAIL. 

Remove  the  pulp  from  6  grapefruit,  add  1  pint  maris- 
chino  cherries  cut  in  rings,  6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar; 
chill  and  serve  in  cocktail  glasses  or  the  grapefruit  shells, 
adding  crushed  ice  and  sherry  wine.-— Mrs.  R.  J.  Corbitt. 

PRUNE   COCKTAIL. 

Soak,   stew  and  stone  the  large  French  or  Santa  Clara 


164  COCKTAILS 

prunes.  Sweeten  slightly,  then  thoroughly  cool  on  ice  and 
chop  small.  To  the  prune  juice,  add  orange  and  lemon  juice 
to  flavor;  stir  in  the  chopped  fruit  and  serve  in  cocktail 
glasses,  banked  with  crushed  ice. 

A    TBOPICAL    COCKTAIL. 

Place  sections  of  grapefruit  into  a  glass  and  add  a  well- 
seasoned  oyster  cocktail  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  green 
peppers,  surround  with  ice  to  keep  very  cold.  Serve  in 
grapefruit  glasses  with  ice. 


CANDIES 

Fondant  is  a  good  foundation  and  will  yield  many  delicious 
candies.  The  fondant  is  made  with.  2  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  1  pint  of  water  and  ^  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  It 
is  not  wise  to  make  large  quantities  at  once.  Place  this  mix- 
ture in  a  kettle  over  a  medium  fire  and  boil  until  it  forms  a 
ball  in  water.  Wipe  all  crystals  from  the  edge  of  the  pan 
with  a  damp  cloth.  It  must  be  taken  from  the  fire  at  exactly 
the  proper  time  to  be  successful.  Add  the  desired  flavoring 
just  before  removing.  Pour  into  a  large  platter  as  soon  as  it 
can  be  worked;  use  a  wooden  spatula  until  it  becomes  firm 
and  white,  then  pack  it  in  a  damp  cloth  and  knead  with  the 
hands  until  it  is  soft  and  creamy.  The  fondant  may  be  made 
in  a  variety  of  colors  and  flavors,  and  chopped  nuts  and  fruits 
may  be  added  to  same,  and  thus  you  have  a  variety  of 
candies  made  from  the  same  foundation.  Peppermints  are 
made  by  coloring  some  of  the  fondant  pink  and  some  green 
and  flavor  with  pepperment  essence.  Shape  in  flat  discs  or 
roll  and  cut  with  a  small  cutter. 

Marbled  candy  is  made  by  working  quantities  of  each  color 
together  until  they  are  blended  prettily.  Form  in  a  cake  and 
cut  into  small  squares.  Chocolate  creams  are  made  by  dip- 
ping balls  of  the  white  fondant  into  melted  chocolate.  Stuffed 
dates  are  delicious.  Remove  the  date  stones  and  fold  an 
English  walnut  meat  in  its  place.  Dip  the  whole  in  melted 
fondant  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Cut  fruit-cake  into  small  squares  and  dip  them  into  melted 
fondant  or  melted  chocolate.  Blanched  nut  meats  may  be 
treated  in  the  same  manner.  Fruit  bars  are  made  by  adding 
candied  fruits  to  a  quantity  of  melted  chocolate  or  fondant. 
Pour  into  a  mould  and  when  cold  cut  into  bars.  These 
candies  must  all  be  packed  in  jars  and  set  in  a  cool  place,  to 
be  kept  any  length  of  time. 

The  Arabian  fondant  is  kneaded  on  a  wooden  board  with 
the  bare  hands,  like  bread,  and  is  set  away  to  ripen  for  24 
hours  at  least.     The  longer  it  ripens  the  more  delicious  it 


166  CANDIES 

grows.  An  oriental  candy  is  made  with.  2  cups  gelatine 
boiled  five  minutes  in  a  little  water,  and  1  cup  of  ripened 
fondant.  Nuts,  cherries,  figs,  currants,  dates  and  citron  are 
chopped  very  fine  and  added  to  the  mixture.  When  it  is  cold 
it  is  cut  into  squares  and  rolled  in  sugar. 

Quince  bars  are  made  from  1  quart  rich,  clear  jelly  and 
1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine.  The  latter  is  boiled  in  a 
little  water  for  five  minutes  before  putting  in  with  the  jelly. 
Boil  the  whole  together  until  it  is  quite  stiff  and  add  2  cups 
of  chopped  nut  meats.  Pour  into  a  square  oiled  dish  and 
when  cool  cut  into  bars  and  dust  with  sugar. 

Persian  fondant  bars  are  made  by  placing  layers  of  ripened 
melted  fondant  in  a  buttered  pan.  Pour  a  layer  of  chocolate 
into  the  pan  and  when  cold  pour  on  a  layer  of  white  vanilla 
fondant,  then  a  layer  of  pink  fondant  and  last  a  layer  of  green 
nut  fondant.     When  cold  cut  into  bars. 

ORANGE   CUBES. 

Soak  into  2  ounces  of  sheet  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  water. 
Boil  1  cup  of  orange  juice  and  4  cups  of  sugar.  Add  the 
gelatine  and  cook  20  minutes.  Add  1  cup  of  chopped  al- 
monds and  1  cup  of  chopped  figs.  Turn  into  a  greased  pan 
and  when  perfectly  cold  cut  into  cubes  and  dust  with  pow- 
dered sugar. 

For  candied  peel,  select  smooth  fresh  skins  of  oranges  or 
lemons.  Scrape  off  as  much  as  possible  of  the  inner  white 
skin,  then  when  the  skin  is  thin  and  clear  cut  into  strips. 
Cook  a  thick  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  and  simmer  the  peel 
in  this.  This  process  must  be  thoroughly  watched  and  stirred 
to  prevent  burning.  Take  the  peels  from  the  pan  and  roll 
them  in  powdered  sugar.  A  small  fancy  box  filled  with 
candied  peel  makes  a  delightful  gift.  Candied  fruits  are 
made  by  cooking  cherries,  diced  pineapple,  strawberries  or 
segments  of  oranges  in  the  same  manner  until  they  are  firm 
and  transparent.  The  canned  fruits  may  be  used  if  they 
are  solid  and  whole. 


CANDIES  167 

PEANUT    BRITTLE. 

One  cup  each  brown  sugar  and  molasses,  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter, 1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Stir  together  before  putting  on 
fire,  but  not  after.  Boil  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water 
will  become  brittle.  Add  a  cup  of  peanuts,  parched  and 
skin  removed.  Take  from  the  fire,  .s||^in  1  teaspoon  soda 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Beat  well, 
pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  cut  into  squares. 

SMITH    COLLEGE>:FUDGE. 

****  $t  -  1*1--  -| 

Melt  y±  cup  butter.  Mix  together  in  a  separate  dish  1 
cup  of  white  sugar  and  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  14  CUP  molasses 
and  i/o  cup  cream.  Add  this  to  the  butter,  and  after  it  has 
been  brought  to  a  boil  continue  boiling  for  2%  minutes, 
stirring  rapidly.  Then  add  2  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate. 
Boil  5  minutes,  stirring.  Add  vanilla,  beat  until  thick,  and 
pour  in  buttered  dish. 

CHOCOLATE   FUDGE. 

Four  cups  of  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
chocolate,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  of  milk.  Boil  until 
thick ;  then  beat  and  pour  on  buttered  platter  and  when  cool 
cut  in  squares. — Mildred  Wester. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE. 

Boil  2  2-3  cups  granulated  sugar,  2-3  cup  Karo  corn 
syrup,  2-3  cup  warm  water  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Add  this  to  the  whites  of  3  eggs  stiffly  beaten, 
and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  stand  when  dropped  from  a 
spoon. — Miss  Hattie  T.  Cooper. 

MARSHMALLOW    FUDGE. 

Three  cups  brown  sugar,  %  cup  milk.  Boil  together  until 
gummy  (about  10  minutes),  stirring  all  the  time.  Then 
add  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  i/o  pound  best  marsh- 


M 


168  CANDIES 

mallows  and  1  cup  of  broken  English  walnut  meats.  Beat 
(on  the  stove)  until  ready  to  pour ;  that  is,  when  the  marsh- 
mallows  are  dissolved.  Warm  the  marshmallows  in  (the 
oven  first  until  they  are  very  soft.  Hope  somebody  will 
try  this. 

CHOCOLATE    CARAMELS. 

One  cup  molasses,  %  cup  sugar,  y±  pound  chocolate,  V2 
cup  milk,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  butter.  Boil  all 
together,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  it  hardens  in  cold 
water,  pour  it  into  shallow  pans  and  cut  in  squares. 

FUDGE. 

Two  pounds  brown  sugar,  %  pound  chocolate,  2  cups  good 
rich  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  all  and  boil  very 
slowly,  stirring  almost  continuously,  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Remove  from  the  stove  and  put 
in  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla.  Set  aside  until  cool  enough  to 
bear  your  hand  against  kettle,  then  beat  until  ready  to  put 
into  deep  tins.  Mark  at  once  and  begin  to  eat. — Mrs.  T.  B. 
Bullock. 

CHOCOLATE  ALMONDS. 

Blanche  the  almonds  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them 
and  let  stand  2  or  3  minutes.  Roast  them  in  oven.  Dip 
them  in  the  following  recipe  for  chocolate  coating,  and  drop 
on  paraffine  paper:  l/o  pound  cake  Walter  Baker's  vanilla 
sweet  chocolate,  2  level  tablespoonfuls  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls 
boiling  water.  Put  chocolate  in  small  saucepan  over  boiling 
water,  and  when  melted  stir  in  butter  and  water.  Mix  well. 
If  found  to  be  too  thick,  add  more  water;  if  too  thin,  more 
chocolate. 

C0C0ANUT    CANDY. 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  grated  cocoa- 
nut.  Put  on  the  sugar  with  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut,  let  it 
boil  until  crisp  when  dropped  into  water.     Stir  to  prevent 


CANDIES  169 

burning,  then  add  the  nut  and  stir  it  until  it  leaves  the  side3 
of  the  pan.  Pour  in  a  dish  that  has  been  rubbed  over  with 
butter.  When  nearly  cool  cut  into  squares. — Mrs.  Henry 
Perry. 

KARO    TAFFY. 

One-half  pound  can  of  Karo  syrup,  2  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  V4  cup  of  vinegar,  tablespoon  of  butter,  same  of  vanilla 
extract.  Boil  all  but  the  vanilla  until  brittle  when  tried  in 
cold  water.  Add  the  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  buttered  pan; 
cut  in  squares  when  cooled,  then  cut  in  short  lengths. 

PEPPERMINT   CANDY. 

Three  cups  sugar,  1  cup  water,  1  teaspoon  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon vinegar,  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint  or  essence  of 
peppermint. — Mrs.  Will  Keith. 

COCOANTTT    CANDY. 

Four  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk.  Boil  sugar  and  milk  to- 
gether for  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  1  grated 
cocoanut  and  beat  20  minutes  or  until  it  becomes  creamy. — 
Mrs.  E.  F.  Fenner. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  granulated  or  pulverized  sugar, 
tablespoon  butter,  enough  milk  to  dissolve  the  sugar.  Boil 
this  very  slowly  about  10  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Take 
oif  and  add  %  pound  Walter  Baker's  chocolate.  Beat  until 
creamy. — Mrs.  E.  F.  Fenner. 

CHOCOLATE   CANDY. 

Two  large  cups  brown  sugar,  1  can  (5  cents  size)  evapo- 
rated cream,  chocolate  enough  to  flavor ;  mix  sugar  and  cream ; 
heat ;  then  add  chocolate.  Stir  all  the  time,  until  done ;  then 
stir  until  it  begins  to  harden. — Mrs.  Henry  Perry. 


170  CANDIES 

CANDY. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1  can  evaporated  cream,  y%  cup 
maple  syrup.  Stir  all  the  time  it  is  cooking.  When  done, 
add  nuts,  beat  well,  pour  in  a  dish  and  cut  in  squares. — 
Mrs.  Henry  Perry. 

CKEAM     TAFFY. 

Two  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  Yo  CUP 
of  vinegar,  1/2  cup  of  water,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  14  teaspoon 
of  cream  of  tartar,  2  ounces  of  butter,  soda.  Mix  the  sugar, 
vinegar,  water  and  molasses  together,  bring  to  boiling  point 
and  add  the  cream  of  tartar.  Stir  constantly  while  boiling. 
When  it  forms  a  ball  in  cold  water,  add  the  butter  and  a  pinch 
of  soda.  Pour  on  buttered  plates,  and  when  cool  pull  until 
white. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  i/o  cup  of  water,  butter  size  of 
walnut,  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar.  Boil  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether until  a  little  will  harden  in  cold  water  (about  twenty 
minutes).  Then  pour  into  buttered  tins  and  mark  in 
squares. 

POPCORN    BALLS. 

One  pint  of  molasses,  6  quarts  of  popped  corn,  1  cup  of 
nuts.  Pop  as  much  corn  as  desired,  carefully  removing  all 
hard  grains.  To  each  6  quarts  of  popped  corn,  allow  1  pint 
of  molasses  and  1  cup  of  shelled  nuts.  Boil  the  molasses 
until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Have 
the  popcorn  and  nuts  in  a  large  bowl.  Pour  boiling  syrup 
over  them,  tossing  with  a  spoon  to  mix  them  thoroughly. 
When  cool  enough  to  handle,  shape  in  firm  balls.  The 
nuts  may  be  omitted  if  desired,  as  popped  corn  alone  treated 
in  this  way  makes  delicious  balls. 

FRUIT    PASTE. 

One  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  dates,  1  cup  of  figs,  2  cups 


CANDIES  171 

of  mixed  nuts,  confectioners'  sugar.  Put  the  raisins,  dates, 
figs  and  nuts  through  a  food  chopper  twice.  Mix  with 
enough  confectioners'  sugar  to  make  a  dough  sufficiently 
firm  to  roll  on  a  board  sprinkled  with  more  confectioners' 
sugar.  Knead  as  you  would  bread.  Then  roll  out  %  inch 
thick  and  cut  into  squares.  Cover  with  the  sugar  and  lay 
away  in  tin  boxes  lined  with  waxed  paper. 

PANOCHE. 

One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  cups  of  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
of  butter,  2  cups  of  chopped  nuts,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Put 
the  milk  and  sugar  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  and  boil  until 
a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  forms  a  ball.  Add  the  butter, 
take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  vanilla  and  nuts,  beating  the 
mixture  very  hard.  Turn  into  buttered  pans  and  mark  off 
into  squares. 

PULL-CANDY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  1  table- 
spoon vinegar.  Cook  slowly  until  it  scorches  slightly.  Pour 
on  buttered  dish  and  pull  immediately. — Mrs.  A.  O.  Houston. 

GLACE    NUTS. 

One  pound  sugar,  ten  grains  cream  of  tartar,  i/o  cup 
water ;  stir  until  dissolved.  Boil  until  when  dropped  in  cold 
water  it  will  be  clear  and  brittle.  Stand  saucepan  in  hot 
water  and  drop  nuts  in  one  at  a  time.  Take  out  at  once  and 
put  on  oiled  paper  to  harden. 

ENGLISH  BUTTER-SCOTCH. 

Three  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1*4  pounds  of  butter, 
%  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon  of  extract  of 
lemon.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  cold  water,  then  add  the 
butter  and  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  without  stirring  until  it 
cracks  when  dropped   into  cold  water.     Remove  from  the 


172  CANDIES 

fire,   add  lemon  extract   and  pour  into  well-buttered  tins. 
When  nearly  cold,  mark  out  in  squares. 

CREAM    CANDY. 

One  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  boiling 
water,  1  level  tablespoon  butter,  vanilla  to  taste.  Cook  until 
it  will  pull  after  being  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  on 
marble  slab  to  cool;  then  pull  a  long,  long  time,  then  put  on 
marble  again  and  pull  into  a  long  string.  Cut  with  scissors 
into  small  pieces. — Mrs.  N.  P.  Strause. 

CHRISTMAS    NUT    LOAF. 

One  cupful  of  peanuts,  half  a  cupful  of  pecan  nut  meats, 
half  a  cupful  of  hickory  nut  meats,  1%  cupful  of  English 
walnut  meats,  l1/^  cupful  of  blanched  almonds,  a  pinch  of 
baking  soda,  l/o  a  pound  of  figs,  %  cupful  of  butter,  11/2 
cupful  of  molasses,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  extract  and 
%  cupful  of  sugar. 

Put  the  molasses  and  sugar  into  a.  saucepan  and  boil  until 
it  forms  a  hard  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Then  add 
the  butter  and  continue  boiling  until  it  is  brittle  when  tested 
in  cold  water.  Now  add  the  soda,  the  figs  put  through  a 
meat  chopper,  the  extract  and  the  nuts  slightly  chopped. 
Pour  into  a  well-buttered  mold  and  leave  in  a  cool  place 
overnight.      Turn  out  and  cut  in  slices. 

ORANGE    STRAWS. 

Cut  the  rind  in  narrow  strips,  scald,  then  soak  for  3  days, 
changing  water  each  day.  Boil  till  tender,  squeeze  dry,  and 
to  2  cups  rind  put  1  cup  sugar.  Cook  till  done,  then  roll 
each  piece  in  dry  sugar,  and  you  will  have  a  dainty  dish  of 
crystalized  fruit. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Wester. 

DRIED    FIGS. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water.     Dissolve  in  preserv- 


CANDIES  173 

ing  kettle  and  put  into  it  as  many  prepared  figs  as  it  can  cook 
at  a  time.  Let  figs  cook  till  tender  when  pierced,  but  not 
too  soft.  To  prepare  figs  gather  with  stems,  peel  off  the  thin 
dark  skin,  leaving  the  stems  on.  After  cooking  as  directed 
lift  from  syrup  and  with  a  silver  fork  press  the  juice  from 
each,  and  on  a  dish,  in  single  layers,  put  in  the  sun  to  dry 
for  2  days.  Press  flat  and  roll  in  sugar,  then  dry  in  sun 
again,  and  so  on  till  dry  enough  to  pack  in  glass  pars,  pint 
size.  The  syrup  can  be  saved  and  cook  others  in  it,  then 
used  as  syrup. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Moss. 

PINEAPPLE   GLACE. 

Peel  and  slice  the  fruit  and  pat  it  dry  (between  the  folds 
of  a  towel.  Boil  together  without  stirring  1  pound  of  sugar 
and  !/2  a  cupful  of  water.  When  a  little  dropped  into  cold 
water  is  brittle,  remove  the  saucepan  from  the  range,  stand 
it  in  an  outer  pan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  in  3  tablespoonf  uls 
of  lemon  juice.  Take  each  slice  of  pineapple  up  quickly  with 
sugar  tongs,  dip  it  into  the  scalding  syrup  and  lay  on  waxed 
or  greased  paper  to  dry.  This  drying  process  would  be  best 
done  where  the  air  is  dry  and  warm. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Horner. 

KISSES. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  1  pound  granulated  sugar.  Add  sugar 
to  whites  before  beating  and  heat  until  it  will  stand  alone. 
Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  but- 
tered paper,  and  let  dry  out  and  turn  a  little  yellow  in  a  slow 
oven. — Miss  Julia  M.  Cooper. 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES 

PRESERVING. 

Preserves  require  from  %  to  1  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pound  of  fruit;  and  ^  cup  of  water  to  each  pound  sugar. 
The  fruit  should  be  simmered  in  the  syrup  until  tender,  a 
little  at  a  time ;  skimmed  out  into  the  jars ;  when  all  are  done 
the  syrup  should  be  brought  to  boiling  point,  jars  filled  and 
sealed.  Hard  fruits  like  quinces  should  be  first  steamed  or 
cooked  in  boiling  water  until  tender. 

Use  good  fruit  which  is  a  little  underripe. 

Use  the  best  granulated  sugar. 

Do  not  make  large  quantities  of  jelly  at  one  cooking. 

Heat  the  sugar  in  the  oven  before  adding  it  to  the  fruit 
juice. 

If  the  juice  must  be  boiled  down,  always  do  so  before  the 
sugar  is  added. 

The  jelly  will  be  clearer  and  finer  if  the  fruit  is  simmered 
gently  and  not  stirred  during  cooking. 

Do  not  allow  the  syrup  to  boil  rapidly,  or  crystals  may  ap- 
pear in  jelly. 

Always  make  jelly  on  a  bright,  clear  day. 

Wash  the  jelly  glasses  in  hot  water  and  set  them  on  a 
folded  cloth  rung  out  of  hot  water. 

Set  the  jelly  in  a  sunny  window  for  24  hours,  then  cover 
with  melted  paraffine  and  set  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

APPLE    PRESERVES. 

Peel  and  quarter,  removing  cores.  To  each  pound  of 
apples  allow  %  pound  of  sugar.  Make  ginger  tea,  strain 
over  the  sugar  and  cook  until  a  thick  syrup.  Put  in  apples, 
cook  until  done ;  do  not  stir,  and  seal  at  once  in  glass  jars. 

GREEN    TOMATO    PRESERVES. 

Select  rather  small  tomatoes  and  cut  in  halves  crosswise. 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES  175 

If  larger,  quarter  the  halves.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow 
%  pound  of  sugar  and  J/2  a  lemon  cut  in  thin  slices.  Use 
lemons  that  do  not  have  a  bitter  rind.  Put  with  the  sugar 
enough  water  to  dissolve  it  in  the  preserving-kettle  and  when 
it  reaches  the  boiling-point  add  tomatoes  and  lemon.  Sim- 
mer gently  until  the  tomato  is  clear  and  tender,  then  seal. 

FIG    PRESERVES. 

Figs  should  not  be  very  ripe.  Peel  very  thin  with  sharp 
knife,  leaving  stems  on.  To  each  pound  of  figs  allow  % 
pound  of  sugar.  To  each  2  pounds  of  fruit  1  lemon,  remov- 
ing seed.  Put  sugar  and  lemon  on  to  boil  to  thick  syrup ;  drop 
in  figs  and  cook  until  done.  Fill  jars,  screw  on  tops  and 
place  in  cool  closet. 

PEAR    PRESERVES. 

Peel  pears,  quarter  if  large,  halve  if  small.  To  each 
pound  of  fruit  allow  %  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  sugar  and 
little  water  to  thick  syrup.  Drop  in  pears  with  clove  stick 
in  each  piece,  or  if  preferred  flavor  with  ginger  or  lemon. 
Cook  until  done  and  put  up  in  jars,  sealing  at  once. 

PEACH  PRESERVES. 

Same  as  pears,  flavoring  with  a  few  peach  kernels  instead 
of  other  flavorings. 

PINEAPPLE    PRESERVES. 

Wash  fruit,  take  out,  pare  and  slice  lengthwise,  leaving 
out  the  hard  center.  Pour  a  syrup  (using  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  1  of  fruit),  boiling  hot  over  pineapples  and  let  stand  until 
the  next  morning.  Pour  off  syrup,  boil  until  nearly  thick 
enough,  then  add  fruit,  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

STRAWBERRY    PRESERVES. 

Put  2  pounds  of  sugar  in  a  bright  tin  pan  over  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  and  pour  into  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water; 


176  PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES 

when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  hot,  put  in  fruit,  and  then 
place  the  pan  directly  on  the  stove  or  range,  let  boil  10  min- 
utes or  longer  if  the  fruit  is  not  clear,  gently  (or  the  berries 
will  be  broken)  take  up  with  a  small  strainer,  and  keep  hot 
while  the  syrup  is  boiled  down  until  thick  and  rich;  drain 
off  the  thin  syrup  from  the  cans,  and  pour  the  rich  syrup 
over  the  berries  to  fill,  and  screw  down  the  tops  immediately. 

CHERRY    PRESERVES. 

Choose  sour  ones,  seed  carefully,  allow  an  amount  of  sugar 
equal  to  the  fruit,  take  half  the  sugar,  sprinkle  over  the  fruit, 
let  stand  about  an  hour,  pour  into  a  preserving  kettle,  boil 
slowly  10  minutes,  skim  out  the  cherries,  add  rest  of  sugar 
to  the  syrup,  boil,  skim,  and  pour  over  the  cherries  till  jar  is 
filled  and  seal. 

JAMS. 

Jams  are  usually  made  with  small  fruits  or  with  chopped 
large  fruits;  they  are  cooked  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar 
till  rich  and  thick;  then  put  into  tumblers  or  small  jars  and 
sealed. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM. 

Pick  over  and  wash  2  gallons  of  fresh  gathered  ripe  black- 
berries. Put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle,  avoiding  tin  vessel 
or  spoon,  add  a  quart  of  water  and  cook  gently  until  soft, 
watching  that  they  do  not  burn.  Stir  occasionally,  using  a 
wooden  spoon  and  breaking  up  the  fruit.  Then  take  from 
the  fire,  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  large  stoneware  bowl  or 
jar.  Stir  the  pulp  thoroughly.  Take  a  quart  of  the  pulp, 
never  more,  at  a  time,  and  put  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle. 
When  it  boils  add  a  quart  of  granulated  sugar,  previously 
heated,  as  for  jelly.  Let  it  cook  rapidly  for  fifteen  minutes, 
shaking  the  kettle  frequently  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the 
bottom.  When  it  begins  to  jelly  it  is  done.  Test  it  as  you 
would  jelly,  and  when  it  will  harden,  fill  small  jars  or 
glasses.     When  cold  seal  them  up  tightly. 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES  177 

APPLE  BUTTEB. 

Peel  and  core  1  peck  of  apples  and  cover  with  1  quart 
sweet  cider.  Let  this  cook  in  preserving  kettle  all  day,  stir- 
ring constantly  to  keep  from  scorching.  When  the  mixture 
begins  to  turn  brown  sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with  pow- 
dered cinnamon,  cloves  and  spice.  Let  brown  thoroughly 
and  pack  in  jars. — Mrs.  Sam.  Peace. 

GBAPE   MARMALADE. 

Wash  the  grapes  well,  remove  all  stems  and  imperfect  fruit, 
and  drain  the  grapes.  Separate  the  pulp  from  the  skins. 
Heat  the  pulp  to  the  boiling-point  and  cook  it  slowly  until 
the  seeds  separate.  Run  it  through  a  colander  to  remove  the 
seeds.  Put  the  pulp  and  skins  into  the  preserving  kettle, 
add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar,  and  cook  the  mixture  slowly 
for  30  minutes.  Seal  the  marmalade  in  jars.  If  desired, 
add  a  small  amount  of  spices. 

MAEMALADE. 

One  orange,  1  lemon,  1  large  grape  fruit  or  2  small  ones. 
Slice  very  thin,  rind  and  all  together.  To  one  bowl  of  the 
sliced  fruit  add  3  bowls  of  cold  water,  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  boil  20  minutes,  and  then  let  stand 
over  night  again.  To  each  bowl  of  fruit  add  1  bowl  of  sugar ; 
boil  \y~2  hours.     This  makes  10  glasses. — Miss  Julia  Cooper. 

OEANGE   MAEMALADE. 

Slice  oranges  very  thinly,  add  3  pints  of  water  to  every 
pound  of  oranges.  Let  stand  21  hours ;  boil  until  skin  is 
tender ;  let  get  cold ;  add  to  each  pint  1  pound  of  sugar ;  boil 
1^4  hours.  When  half  done  add  2  lemons  sliced  thin  to 
every  1/2  dozen  oranges.  Use  rind  and  all  of  orange.  If 
you  haven't  any  convenience  for  weighing,  I  find  that  2 
cups  equals  1  pint,  1  pint  equals  1  pound. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Cole- 
man. 

—12 


178  PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES 


JELLIES. 

Use  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  drained  fruit  juice.  Mash 
and  heat  berries  till  juice  runs  readily,  then  turn  into  bags 
of  unbleached  muslin  and  let  drip.  Measure  juice  and  sugar*. 
Boil  juice  20  minutes.  Have  sugar  in  shallow  pan,  heat 
through  in  open  oven,  add  to  boiling  juice,  boil  up  once, 
take  off  fire  and  pour  into  tumblers.  Fruit  like  apples  and 
quinces  should  be  chopped  and  covered  with  water,  then  sim- 
mered till  tender  before  turning  into  jelly  bags. 

SULPHUR-CURED    APPLES. 

Peel  and  quarter  the  apples,  then  cut  out  the  core.  Put 
them  into  a  basket  or  bag  and  suspend  from  the  top  of  a 
barrel.  In  the  bottom  of  the  barrel  put  a  tin  plate  or  basin 
with  plenty  of  live  coals  (from  oak  or  hickory  are  best.)  On 
the  coals  pour  y%  pound  sulphur.  Cover  the  barrel  closely 
with  a  quilt  and  let  it  stand  6  hours.  The  fruit  will  keep 
after  this  cure  in  a  box  or  jar  unsealed. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Alder- 
man. 

JELLIED    APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  1  dozen  apples,  1  pound  sugar.  Put  in 
water  and  dissolve  it;  when  it  begins  to  boil  put  apples  in, 
boil  till  tender,  take  out,  flavor  with  lemon  or  cinnamon, 
stir  in  %  box  of  gelatine,  boil  5  minutes  and  strain  into  the 
apples  in  a  large  dish.  Gelatine  must  be  dissolved  before- 
hand.— Miss  H.  0.  Metis,  Norfolk,  Va. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Use  currants  which  are  a  little  underripe.  Cherry  cur- 
rants are  best.  A  lighter  jelly  may  be  made  from  equal 
portions  of  red  and  white  currants.  Pick  over  currants 
without  removing  the  stems,  wash  and  drain.  Put  a  few  in  a 
granite  dish  and  crush  with  a  potato  masher.  Add  a  few 
more  and  crush ;  continue.  Cook  slowly  until  currants  look 
white.     Strain  through  a  coarse  enamel  strainer,  then  strain 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES  179 

through  a  bag  made  from  a  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth. 
Do  not  squeeze  the  bag,  but  allow  the  juice  to  drop  through. 
Measure  juice,  and  boil  5  minutes.  Add  an  equal  measure 
of  hot  granulated  sugar.  Boil  gently  from  3  to  5  minutes, 
skim  and  pour  into  jelly  glasses. 

The  syrup  may  be  tested  by  putting  a  teaspoonful  on  a 
cold  plate.     If  done,  it  should  jelly  slightly. 

GEAPE   JELLY. 

Pick  grapes  when  just  beginning  to  turn.  Wash  and  re- 
move stems.  Heat  to  boiling  point,  wash  and  boil  y%  hour. 
Follow  directions  for  currant  jelly. 

Equal  parts  of  fruit,  juice  and  sugar  are  used  for  nearly 
all  jelly-making.  If  the  fruit  does  not  taste  very  sour,  les3 
sugar  may  be  used.  Fruit  ripened  in  bright  sunshine  re- 
quire less  sugar. 

Green  fox-grapes  make  a  beautiful,  delicious,  amber-col- 
ored jelly.     Use  cup  of  sugar  to  a  cup  of  the  juice. 

PRUNE    JELLY. 

Cook  1  cup  of  prunes  and  removes  stones.  Soak  ^  box 
of  gelatine  in  a  third  of  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Add  2  cups 
of  boiling  water.  Strain.  Add  2  tablespoons  each  of  lemon 
juice  and  sherry  with  1  cup  of  sugar.  Chill  and  when  be- 
ginning to  stiffen  add  ^  cup  of  chopped  walnuts.  Stir  occa- 
sionally to  prevent  nuts  from  settling  and  serve  with  boiled 
custard. 

CRAB    APPLE    JELLY. 

Cover  the  apples  with  water,  boil  until  perfectly  tender; 
mash  and  strain  through  coarse  cloth,  and  to  every  pint  of 
liquor  allow  1  pint  of  sugar.  Cook  until  it  drops  heavy  or 
clean  from  spoon.  Put  in  glasses  and  seal. — Mrs.  C.  M. 
Cooper. 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

CANNING. 

The  important  points  to  ibe  observed  in  canning  are  to  use 
only  sound,  ripe  fruit;  to  have  hot  syrup  and  air-tight  jars; 
to  fill  jars  to  overflowing  and  seal  immediately.  Jars  should 
be  scalded  and  tested  before  using.  Patent  canners  greatly 
simplify  the  work.  Pick  over  the  fruit,  stem,  pare,  cut, 
wash,  etc.,  and  pack  in  jars.  Make  syrup  by  adding  y%  pint 
boiling  water  to  1  pound  sugar.  When  clear  bring  to  boiling 
point  and  carefully  fill  the  jars.  Stand  in  canner  or  on 
board  in  wash-boiler  containing  water  up  to  shoulders  of 
jars.  Cover  and  cook  according  to  directions  or  till  tender. 
Take  from  canner  or  boiler,  add  more  syrup  till  overflowing, 
cover  and  seal  immediately. 

GENERAL    DIRECTIONS    FOR    CANNING. 

Use  pint  or  quart  jars  and  be  sure  to  have  new  rubber  rings ; 
old  rubbers  allow  air  to  enter  jars.  Sterilize  jars  by  placing 
in  pan  of  cold  water  and  letting  this  come  to  boiling  point; 
boil  10  or  15  minutes.  For  tomatoes  scald  and  peel.  Pack 
in  sterilized  jars,  adding  a  little  salt.  Put  on  covers  without 
screwing  down.  Set  the  jars  on  small  blocks  of  wood  in  a 
kettle  of  cold  water  and  let  fruit  become  thoroughly  heated. 
Remove  covers  and  fill  to  overflowing  with  boiling  water. 
Put  on  the  ring  and  screw  the  covers  down.  Turn  upside 
down.  If  syrup  oozes  out  remove  covers  and  rubber.  Put 
on  new  rubber  and  refill  with  boiling  syrup  and  again  screw 
down  cover.  Or  tomatoes  may  be  scalded  and  packed  in 
jars  while  boiling  hot,  keeping  jars  in  pan  boiling  water  or 
wrapped  in  cloth  wrung  out  of  boiling  water,  while  filling. 
Peaches  and  other  fruits  may  be  canned  in  same  way;  a 
little  sugar  to  the  syrup,  if  desired. 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES      181 

CANNED    LIMA    BEANS. 

Eight  cups  green  lima  beans.  %  cup  salt,  %  cup  sugar, 
as  much  water  as  necessary,  iboil  until  tender  (not  too  ten- 
der), seal  in  glass  jars.  When  preparing  for  table,  drain  liquor 
off,  put  on  cold  water,  let  come  to  boil,  drain  off  and  add 
dressing.     Corn  may  be  canned  same  way. 

CANNED   PEACHES y   SYRUP   METHOD. 

Drop  the  prepared  fruit  into  boiling  water  and  continue 
the  boiling  until  a  silver  fork  will  easily  pierce  it.  In  an- 
other kettle  (of  granite)  make  a  thin  syrup,  using  enough 
sugar  to  sweeten  the  fruit.  Remove  the  peaches  from  the 
water  and  drop  them  carefully  into  the  boiling  syrup.  Allow 
them  to  simmer  for  5  minutes;  then  transfer  them  to  steril- 
ized jars,  put  new  rubbers  in  place,  fill  the  jars  to  overflowing 
with  the  boiling  syruiD,  and  seal  them  at  once. 

CANNED   PEACHES  J    BOILING    METHOD. 

Make  a  thin  syrup,  using  half  as  much  sugar  as  water. 
Peel  the  peaches,  cut  them  into  halves,  and  remove  the  seeds. 
Drop  the  prepared  fruit  into  the  boiling  syrup,  and  continue 
the  boiling  until  it  is  tender.  Put  new  rubbers  in  place  on 
jars  that  have  been  sterilized  by  boiling  in  water,  carefully 
transfer  the  peaches,  fill  the  jars,  to  overflowing  with  boiling 
syrup,  and  seal  them  at  once. 

CANNED    PEACHES  ;     STEAMING     METHOD. 

Put  the  prepared  fruit  into  glass  jars,  put  the  covers  in 
place  loosely  without  the  rubbers,  stand  the  jars  in  a  wash- 
boiler  on  a  false  bottom,  surround  them  with  a  few  inches  of 
warm  water,  put  the  cover  on  the  boiler,  and  boil  the  water 
until  the  peaches  are  tender.  This  usually  requires  an  hour 
for  quart  jars.  Remove  the  covers,  put  new  rubbers  in 
place,  fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  a  heavy  boiling  syrup, 
and  seal  them  at  once. 


182       CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

CANNED    PEARS.       .% 

Prepare  and  can  precisely  like  peaches  except  that  they 
require  longer  cooking.  When  done  they  are  easily  pierced 
with  a  silver  fork. 

CANNED    PINEAPPLE. 

Peel  and  slice,  make  syrup  in  proportion  of  2y2  pounds 
best  granulated  sugar  to  nearly  3  pints  of  water ;  boil  5  min- 
utes ;  skim  or  strain ;  add  fruit  and  let  it  boil ;  have  cans  hot ; 
fill  and  seal  up  as  soon  as  possible. 

CANNED   CORN. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  tartaric  acid  in  %  teacup  of  water,  and 
take  1  teaspoon  to  2  quarts  of  sweet  corn,  cook  and  while 
boiling  hot,  fill  the  cans,  which  should  be  tin.  When  used 
turn  into  a  colander,  rinse  with  cold  water,  add  a  little  soda 
and  sugar  while  cooking,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt. — Dixie. 

CANNED  TOMATOES. 

The  tomatoes  must  be  entirey  fresh  and  not  overripe,  pour 
over  them  boiling  water,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  drain  off, 
remove  the  skins,  and  slice  crosswise  into  a  stone  jar,  cutting 
out  all  the  hard  or  defective  portions ;  cook  for  a  few  minutes 
in  their  own  juice,  skimming  off  the  scum  which  rises  and 
stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  paddle ;  have  the  cans  on  the 
hearth  filled  with  hot  water;  empty,  and  fill  with  hot  toma- 
toes ;  wipe  moisture  from  tops  with  soft  cloth,  put  on  and  se- 
cure covers.  If  tin  pans  are  used,  press  down  covers,  and 
pour  hot  sealing  wax  into  grooves.  If  put  up  in  glass,  set 
away  in  a  dark  place.  Either  tin,  glass  or  stone  cans  may 
be  used,  and  all  may  be  sealed  with  putty  instead  of  wax,  it 
being  more  convenient. 

CANNED  STRING   BEANS. 

String  fresh  string  beans,  break  in  several  pieces,  cook  in 
boiling  water  10  minutes,  and  can  like  tomatoes. 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS 

PICKLE. 

I  peck  tomatoes,  !/2  peck  onions,  6  peppers  (hot),  3  table- 
spoons each  of  whole  cloves,  white  mustard  seed,  coriander 
seed  and  celery  seed,  2  pounds  brown  sugar,  %  gallon  vine- 
gar. Cut  vegetables  and  sprinkle  1  cup  salt  through  and 
let  stand  overnight.  Next  morning  put  in  a  bag  and  squeeze 
all  the  water  out,  then  put  in  seasoning  and  vinegar  and  let 
boil  for  14  to  1  hour  until  tender. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Patterson. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SWEET   PICKLE. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  and  put  them  in  brine  2  days  (or 
sprinkle  lightly  with  salt),  then  in  clear  water  until  the 
salt  is  out.  Boil  in  alum-water  20  minutes,  then  in  clear 
water  until  the  rough  is  out.  Put  %  pound  sugar  to  1  of 
fruit ;  season  with  spice,  ginger,  pepper  and  mace.  Use  vine- 
gar enough  to  cover  pickle  and  boil  20  or  30  minutes. — Mrs. 
Geo.  B.  Harris. 

GREEN    TOMATO    PICKLE. 

Two  gallons  green  tomatoes,  sliced  without  peeling,  12 
good-size  onions,  also  sliced.  Stew  until  tender,  then  add 
2  quarts  vinegar,  1  quart  sugar,  2  small  tablespoons  salt,  2 
tablespoons  each  ground  mustard  and  black  pepper,  table- 
spoon each  allspice  and  cloves.  Put  up  in  small  jars. — 
— Mrs.  J.  D.  Rose. 

GREEN    TOMATO    AND    RAISIN    PICKLE. 

Seven  pounds  tomatoes,  1%  pounds  sugar,  1  pound  seeded 
raisins,  1  pint  vinegar,  ginger,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  8  sweet 
peppers. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Kittrell. 

SPICED   TOMATOES. 

Two  pounds  ripe  tomatoes,  scald  and  slip  off  skins,  1  pound 


184  PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS 

brown  sugar,  l^  pint  vinegar,  1  dozen  cloves,  2  dozen  grains 
allspice.  Stew  over  a  slow  fire.  When  tomatoes  are  cooked 
take  out;  when  cool  return  to  boiling  syrup  and  cook  until 
dark  red.     Remove  and  boil  syrup  thick. 

OLD    VIRGINIA    MIXED    PICKLE. 

One-fourth  peck  green  tomatoes,  12  cucumbers,  7  large 
onions  (white),  *4  peck  small  white  onions,  2  large  heads  of 
cabbage,  i/o  pint  grated  horse-radish,  14  pound  white  mustard 
seed,  !/4  teacup  ground  black  pepper,  ^  ounce  celery  seed,  14 
ounce  ground  cinnamon.  Slice  tomatoes  and  large  white 
onions ;  cut  cabbage  as  for  slaw ;  cut  cucumbers  in  quarters 
if  small.  Put  this  in  jar,  mixing  well  as  you  add  to  jar 
salt,  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Drain  off  the  water  that  rises 
and  wash  pickles  with  clear  water ;  then  add  the  small  whole 
onions  (that  have  been  standing  in  salt  water  24  hours). 
Pour  water  and  vinegar  in  equal  quantities  over  pickle.  Let 
stand  day  or  two  and  put  pickle  in  cotton  bag.  Press  it  until 
you  can't  get  any  water  from  pickle.  Mix  the  spices  with 
pickle,  boil  iy2  gallons  fresh  apple  vinegar  and  pour  over 
(boiling  hot)  the  pickles.  Do  this  3  mornings  in  succession, 
using  same  vinegar  each  time.  The  third  time  add  l1/^ 
pounds  sugar  to  vinegar ;  put  pickle  in  kettle  after  the  vine- 
gar has  boiled  and  let  it  all  come  to  a  boil.  Put  in  jars  and 
keep  well  covered.  You  can  use  the  cucumbers  that  are  in 
brine  if  you  haven't  fresh  ones. — Mrs.  George  Harris. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Pare  and  slice  the  cucumbers  thick  and  some  sliced  onions ; 
put  them  in  layers  in  an  earthen  bowl  with  salt  well  inter- 
mixed. Let  them  stand  6  hours,  then  drain  off  the  water, 
put  in  a  jar  with  a  pod  of  red  pepper ;  cover  with  cold  vinegar 
and  to  each  quart  of  pickle  add  a  teaspoon  of  sweet  oil. — Mrs. 
Zollicoffer. 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS  185 

CABBAGE    PICKLE. 

Two  gallon  cabbage  cut  fine,  V2  gallon  onions  cut  fine,  2 
dozen  sweet  red  peppers  (ripe).  Put  a  layer  of  salt  over  it 
and  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  boiling  water 
over  it  and  squeeze  it  out.  Then  do  it  again.  Three  quarts 
good  vinegar,  y2  ,D0X  °f  yellow  ground  mustard,  4  cups  sugar, 
y2  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  y2  ounce  of  celery  seed,  1 
spoonful  of  tumerrick  in  a  muslin  bag  to  make  it  yellow; 
horse-radish  to  taste,  50  little  cucumbers  pickled  and  cut  up. 
After  vinegar  boils  put  in  cabbage  and  boil  until  it  begins  to 
get  clear;  take  off  and  let  stand  over  night.  The  next  day 
heat  it  and  put  in  jars  and  seal. — Miss  Leah  Perry. 

CHOW-CHOW   PICKLE. 

One  gallon  chopped  cabbage,  y2  gallon  chopped  green  toma- 
toes ;  8  chopped  onions ;  6  pods  of  bell  pepper  (green,  chopped 
up),  3  quarts  of  good  vinegar,  2y2  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
a  little  each  of  black  pepper,  spice,  cloves,  mace,  cayenne 
pepper,  cinnamon ;  sprinkle  all  loosely  over  the  other  ingredi- 
ents. Cut  up  cabbage,  tomatoes  and  green  pepper;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  off  salt  water  in 
the  morning  and  add  other  things.  Add  5  cents  worth  white 
mustard  seed.  Cook  ail  together  slowly  for  4  hours. — Mrs. 
J  as.  R.  Rankin. 

CHOW-CHOW   PICKLE. 

Green  tomatoes  cut  fine  and  salted  overnight,  full  y2  gal- 
lon ;  add  cabbage  enough  to  make  in  all  6  quarts,  4  onions,  2 
bolls  green  pepper,  3  quarts  vinegar,  1  pound  sugar  to  the 
quart.  Flavor  with  celery  seed,  spice,  etc.,  as  you  like.  Cook 
till  done. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Moss. 

MUSTARD     CHOW-CHOW. 

One-fourth  peck  green  tomatoes,  iy2  dozen  cucumbers, 
14  peck  small  onions,  y2  dozen  green  peppers,  3  red  peppers. 


186  PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS 

Wash  thoroughly  before  cutting  into  small  piece*  and  salt  1 
night,  with  3  cups  sprinkled  between  layers.  Drain  off  in 
the  morning;  wash  and  drain  for  2  hour3.  3  quarts  vinegar, 
3  pounds  sugar,  ^  pound  mustard,  mixed  thick,  5  cents 
whole  mustard  seed,  5  cents  celery  seed,  5  cents  curry  powder, 
1  large  cauliflower  boiled  separately  for  5  minutes.  Put 
vinegar  and  spices  on  to  boil,  then  put  in  pickle,  except  cauli- 
flower; boil  40  minutes,  then  add  cauliflower  and  boil  20 
minutes  more.  If  you  can  get  them,  some  little  gherkins, 
whole,  are  an  improvement,  and  also  string  beans. — Mrs. 
C.  M.  Cooper. 

MUSTARD    PICKLE. 

One  quart  cucumbers,  1  quart  cabbage,  1  quart  green  toma- 
toes, 1  quart  small  onions,  6  green  peppers.  Cut  all  up  and 
make  a  brine  of  1  pint  salt  to  4  quarts  water.  Let  soak  24 
hours,  cook  a  little,  run  through  colander  to  drain.  Take 
1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoonful  tumeric,  4  teaspoonfuls  dry  mus- 
tard. Mix  with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  paste;  then 
add  1  cup  sugar  and  vinegar  to  make  2  quarts.  Boil  this 
until  thick,  then  put  in  cut-up  fruit  and  boil  few  minutes. — 
Mrs.  II.  H.  Beacom. 

PEPPER    SAUCE. 

For  1  pint  bottle :  ^  full  chopped  onions,  1  tablespoonful 
mustard,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  horse-radish, 
1  teaspoonful  black  pepper,  6  green  peppers,  6  red  peppers, 
salt  to  season ;  fill  with  vinegar. — Mrs.  Henry  Perry. 

PICKLED    SWEET    RED   PEPPER. 

Wash  red  peppers,  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  and  re- 
move all  seeds  and  membranes.  This  is  important  as  the 
"hot"  principle  is  in  these  and  if  allowed  to  remain  the 
pickles  will  be  too  hot  to  be  edible.  Cut  in  thin  strips  with 
a  pair  of  scissors.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let  stand 
3  minutes,  drain  and  plunge  into  ice  water.     An  easy  way 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS  187 

to  do  this  is  to  place  the  pepper  shreds  in  a  colander  and 
plunge  first  into  boiling  water,  then  into  ice  water,  and  leave 
10  minutes.  Drain  and  pack  as  solidly  as  possible  into 
small  glass  jars.  Pour  over  peppers  until  jars  overflow  a 
pickle  made  by  boiling  fifteen  minutes  1  quart  of  vinegar 
with  2  cups  of  sugar.  When  jars  are  overflowing  cover,  seal 
and  store  in  a  cool  place. 

GREEN  BELL  PEPPER  PICKLE. 

Make  slit  in  peppers,  remove  seeds,  soak  in  brine.  When 
ready  to  pickle  cover  the  peppers  with  water.  When  fresh 
chop  hard  white  cabbage  very  fine,  scald,  add  2  ounces  white 
mustard  seed,  chopped  celery  or  a  little  celery  seed  and 
grated  horse-radish,  salt,  cabbage  and  squeeze  dry.  Stuff 
peppers  with  the  mixture  and  close  with  a  few  stitches.  Put 
in  large  stone  jars.  Cover  with  hot  spiced  vinegar,  made 
in  proportion  to  1  gallon  vinegar,  %  pound  sugar,  add  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  spice  in  vinegar,  tied  in  cheesecloth  bags. 

PEPPER    SAUCE. 

One  gallon  vinegar,  30  pods  of  ripe  pepper,  30  pods  of 
green  pepper  and  12  onions.  Put  these  in  the  kettle  with 
vinegar  and  boil  until  it  begins  to  come  to  pieces.  Then 
strain  it  through  a  colander,  pressing  it  thoroughly.  Add 
iy2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  spices,  consisting  of  cloves, 
mace,  allspice,  black  pepper  and  ground  mustard.  Put  it 
on  the  fire  again  and  cook  until  as  thick  as  ordinary  catsup. 
— Mrs.  Ann  South erland. 

PEPPER     HASH. 

Eighteen  red  peppers,  18  green  peppers,  3  heads  of  cab- 
bage. Chop  fine.  4  quarts  vinegar,  1  pound  brown  sugar, 
1  pint  salt,  1  tablespoon  whole  cloves,  1  ounce  celery  seed,  y2 
pound  white  mustard  seed,  y2  pound  ground  mustard.  After 
the  cabbage  and  peppers  are  chopped  fine  put  in  the  salt  and 


188  PICKLES  A1STD  CATSUPS 

let  stand  for  several  hours,  then  drain  veil",  put  on  fire  and 
boil  30  minutes. — Miss  Julia  Mitchell  Cooper. 

SWEET    PEACH    PICKLE. 

Peel  firm  peaches,  weigh  them,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit 
allow  y2  pound  sugar.  Place  sugar  and  fruit  in  kettle  in 
alternate  layers;  bring  slowly  to  boil.  To  every  6  pounds 
of  fruit  allow  1  pint  vinegar.  To  this  add  tablespoon  each 
of  ground  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves  (tied  up  in  muslin). 
Put  the  spices  in  vinegar  and  pour  on  the  peaches  and  boil 
5  minutes.  At  the  end  of  this  time  remove  fruit  and  spread 
on  flat  dish;  boil  the  syrup  15  minutes  or  until  thick.  Put 
the  fruit  in  glass  jars;  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  it  and 
seal. — Marion  Harland. 

SWEET   PICKLED   PEACHES. 

To  7  pounds  of  fruit  put  3  pounds  of  sugar,  1  quart  of 
vinegar,  and  spices  to  taste.  Put  the  fruit  in  sugar  the 
night  before.  Cook  until  the  peaches  can  be  pierced  easily 
with  a  straw.  Then  take  out  peaches  and  cook  syrup  about 
half  an  hour,  or  until  it  ropes,  then  pour  over  fruit.  Do  not 
close  jar  until  peaches  are  cold. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Thomas. 

ONION    PICKLE. 

Peel  the  onions  until  they  look  white,  boil  some  strong  salt 
water  and  pour  over  them;  let  them  stand  in  this  24  hours. 
Keep  the  vessel  closely  covered  to  retain  the  steam,  then  wash 
them  through  2  cold  waters ;  scald  them  in  water,  then  drop 
them  in  cold  water,  then  wash  through  another  water,  then 
wipe  them  dry  and  when  cold  pack  in  the  jar  and  pour  boiling 
vinegar  with  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Be  sure  the  onions  are  well  covered  with  vinegar. — Mrs. 
Jimmie  Cooper. 

WATERMELON   KIND  PICKLE. 

After  soaking  sufficiently  scald  in  alum  water.     Boil  in 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS  189 

weak  ginger-water  until  tender.  Then  pour  off  water.  To  5 
pounds  of  rind  add  3  pounds  of  sugar  and  enough  vinegar 
to  cover;  season  with  cloves,  spice  and  mace. — Mrs.  R.  L. 
Wester. 

CITRON   OR  SWEETMEATS. 

Cut  and  soak  in  salt  water  2  days,  drain  and  soak  in  clear 
water  1  day.  Then  boil  in  alum  water.  Then  ginger-water 
until  tender.  Then  drain.  To  4  pounds  fruit  rind  put  S1/^ 
pounds  sugar.  Wet  sugar,  let  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  rind, 
lastly  add  3  lemons  and  little  mace,  if  desired.  Cook  until 
done. — Mrs.  R.  L.  Wester. 

PRESERVED    WATERMELON    RIND. 

Scrape  the  green  side  of  rind,  cut  in  pieces  2  inches  long 
and  color  the  white  side  with  scrapings.  Put  in  weak  brine, 
let  stand  all  night.  Put  in  clear  water  next  day  and  let  heat. 
Then  put  in  weak  alum  water  and  scald ;  then  in  clear  water 
and  boil  until  tender.  Measure:  To  1  pound  rind  use  % 
pound  sugar,  sprinkle  over  and  let  stand  all  night.  Next  day 
boil  in  syrup  until  clear,  with  sliced  lemon,  2  lemons  to  a 
gallon  of  rind. 

RAISIN  MANGOES. 

Select  green  or  half-grown  cantaloupes ;  remove  a  piece  the 
length  of  melon  an  inch  and  a  half  wide  in  the  middle  and 
tapering  to  a  point  at  each  end;  take  out  seeds  with  a  tea- 
spoon. Pare  the  rind  (carve  according  to  your  fancy), 
and  make  a  brine  of  salt  and  cold  water,  strong  enough  to 
float  an  egg,  pour  it  over  them  and  let  remain  for  at  least  2 
weeks.  Take  out  of  brine,  soak  in  plenty  of  fresh  water  un- 
til it  is  extracted;  then  lay  on  a  thick  cloth  and  drain  thor- 
oughly, scald  in  strong  alum  water  until  it  becomes  brittle, 
throw  into  the  cold  water  again  until  alum  is  entirely  ex- 
tracted. Boil  in  strong  ginger  tea  until  well  flavored  with 
ginger.  Make  a  syrup  of  5  pounds  sugar  to  5  pounds  melons, 
with  a  teacup  mixed  spices,  let  cinnamon  predominate.     Put 


190  PICEXES  AND  CATSUPS 

in  the  melons  and  cook  till  done,  then  take  out  and  scatter 
over  them  celery  and  white  mustard  seed.  Add  to  the  syrup  1 
quart  of  vinegar  and  3  sliced  lemons,  and  boil  till  thick.  Fill- 
ing.— For  filling,  chop  fine  3  pounds  raisins,  flavored  slightly 
with  cloves,  1  can  grated  or  sliced  pineapple,  also  preserved 
orange  peeling  if  you  like.  When  melons  are  well  filled, 
sew  or  tie,  in  pieces  to  the  proper  place.  Place  the  melons 
in  a  jar,  cover  with  the  syrup  after  it  has  cooled. 

SPICED    GRAPES. 

To  1  peck  of  pulped  grapes  add  3%  pounds  sugar,  1  pint 
vinegar,  2  ounces  cinnamon,  1  ounce  cloves.  Put  on  the 
pulps,  cook  them  thoroughly  done,  strain  through  a  sieve  or 
potato  masher,  add  to  the  above,  then  cook  all  together  2 
hours. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Elmore. 

SPICED    CURRANTS. 

Pick  over  7  pounds  of  currants ;  wash,  drain  and  remove 
stems ;  put  in  a  preserving  kettle ;  add  5  pounds  brown  sugar, 

1  pint  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  each  cinnamon  and  cloves  tied 
in  a  piece  of  muslin.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  cook 
very  slowly  l^/o  hours.  Store  in  a  stone  jar  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place.     A  delicious  accompaniment  to  cold  meat. 

CHILE    SAUCE. 

Twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  3  large  onions,  1  cup  sugar,  2 
cups  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  salt,  3  green  peppers  (seed  out), 

2  teaspoons  ginger,  1  teaspoon  spice,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  i/2  nVL^ 
meg.  Cut  onions  and  pepper  fine  and  cook  about  2  hours. — 
Mrs.  J.  Ed.  Young. 

Twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  4  ripe  or  green  peppers,  3  large 
or  5  small  onions,  1  cup  sugar,  3  cups  vinegar,  1  tablespoon 
cinnamon.  Boil,  gently  stirring  to  a  paste  for  an  hour  and 
longer  if  it  is  still  thin.     Bottle  tightly. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Elmore. 


PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS  191 

BORDEAUX   SAUCE. 

One-fourth,  peck  green  tomatoes,  3  onions,  1  head  cabbage, 
3  red  peppers;  chop  all  these  fine.  Take  1  quart  vinegar, 
y2  gill  salt,  1  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  %  pound  sugar,  2 
teaspoons  celery  seed,  1  dozen  cloves,  1  dozen  allspices,  1 
tablespoon  tumeric.  Mix  and  when  hot  add  cabbage  and 
cook  an  hour  or  more.  Stir  constantly  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing.— Mrs.  Geo.  Harris. 

BRANDIED  PEACHES. 

Put  fine,  large  free-stone  peaches  into  a  weak  solution  of 
hot  soda.  Water  only  until  the  fur  is  loosened  sufficiently 
to  rub  off  with  a  coarse  cloth;  make  a  syrup  of  white  sugar, 
allowing  %  pound  sugar  to  1  of  fruit.  When  boiling  add 
fruit  and  boil  for  5  minutes,  remove  fruit  and  boil  syrup  15 
minutes  longer,  or  till  thick ;  add  1  pint  of  brandy  for  each 
pound  of  fruit  and  take  syrup  at  once  from  fire  and  pour 
while  hot  over  fruit  (in  glass  jars)  and  seal. 

Pears  must  be  pared  with  a  knife  before  being  brandied. 
Plums  and  apricots  are  brandied  by  this  recipe,  pricking  be- 
fore dropping  in  syrup  to  prevent  bursting.  Cherries  are 
similarly  brandied,  using  however  1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  of 
fruit.     Be  careful  to  cork  all  fruits  tightly. 

AN  OLD  RECIPE   FOR  TOMATO   CATSUP. 

One-half  bushel  of  skimmed  tomatoes,  1  quart  of  best  cider 
vinegar,  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  pound  of  salt,  6  large 
onions  (sliced),  14  pound  of  black  pepper,  14  pound  of 
allspice  (whole  grains),  14  pound  of  English  mustard,  14 
pound  of  whole  cloves,  14  of  an  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  a 
handful  of  peach  leaves  (wash),  a  little  fresh  grated  horse- 
radish. Boil  3  hours,  stir  often  to  keep  from  burning.  Cool 
and  strain  through  fine  sieve. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper. 

TOMATO    CATSUP. 

I  bushel  nice  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  up  and  cook  (with  a  good 


192  PICKLES  AND  CATSUPS 

sprinkle  of  salt  over  them)  until  thoroughly  done,  press 
through  potato  masher,  so  as  to  get  the  seed  and  pulp,  only 
leaving  the  skins.  Now  add  4  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  a  little 
each  of  white  mustard  seed,  celery  seed,  ground  spice, 
cayenne  pepper,  black  pepper,  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon. 
Pour  all  of  this  in  with  3  pints  of  vinegar  and  6  or  8  onions 
(run  through  meat  chopper).  Stir  all  together  and  cook  4 
hours,  stirring  constantly.  Bottle  and  seal  with  paraffine 
wax. — Mrs.  Jas.  B.  Rankin. 

Boil  thoroughly  1  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  and  6  large 
onions,  rub  through  a  sieve ;  then  to  every  y2  gallon  pulp  add 
1  quart  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  of  salt,  3  tablespoons  black 
pepper,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of  mustard,  1 
teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of 
celery  seed,  1  teaspoon  of  spice.  All  spices  pulverized.  Stir 
while  boiling  first  time  very  often.  After  adding  spices, 
etc.,  boil  and  skim  occasionally  until  you  think  it  is  done. — 
Mrs.  Pryce  T.  Jones. 

WILD   GRAPE   CATSUP. 

Cook  2  quarts  of  ripe  wild  grapes  in  enough  mild  vinegar 
to  cover,  until  soft.  Then  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
of  cinnamon  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  allspice  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne.  Cook  until  thick.  Put  away  in  the  usual 
manner. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. 

Strain  and  mash  grapes  that  are  not  fully  ripe;  put  into  a 
kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  prevent  scorching.  Cook 
until  tender;  mash  through  a  sieve,  leaving  only  skin  and 
seeds.  Measure  pulp  and  to  every  3  pints  allow  1  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  heaping  teaspoon  each  of 
cinnamon,  allspice,  mace,  !/o  teaspoon  of  cloves,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Cook  slowly  until  it  is  reduced  to  less  than 
half  and  very  thick.  Put  into  large-mouth  bottles  and  seal 
closely. — Mrs.  W.  Brooks  Parham. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

TIMBALES. 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter, 
1  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Season  with  salt.  Dip  the  timbale 
mould  in  hot  lard  until  well  heated,  then  into  the  batter, 
then  back  into  the  lard  to  fry.  Slip  them  off  the  mould 
with  a  knife  on  brown  paper. — Mi's.  S.  P.  Cooper. 

SALTED    ALMONDS 

Put  enough  olive  oil  or  Wesson  oil  to  cover  nuts  into  a 
pan.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  drop  nuts  in  and  leave  until  they 
become  a  little  brown.  Take  up  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle 
with  salt. 

SALTED    NUTS. 

Stir  nuts  into  a  little  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt,  put 
inside  stove  until  a  little  brown. 

STUFFED   DATES. 

One  pound  of  dates,  confectioners'  sugar,  y2  pound  of 
English  walnuts.  With  a  sharp  knife,  'Carefully  slit  the  dates 
enough  to  remove  the  stones.  Cut  the  nut  meats  into  strips 
the  size  of  the  date  stones  and  slip  in  the  dates.  Press,  the 
edges  together  and  roll  in  confectioners'  sugar.  This  is  a 
wholesome  and  delicious  confection  for  the  children. 


—13 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 

Always  prepare  food  for  the  sick  in  the  neatest  and  most 
careful  manner.  In  sickness  the  senses  are  unusually  acute 
and  far  more  susceptible  to  carelessness,  negligence  and  mis- 
takes in  the  preparation  and  serving  of  food  than  when  in 
health. 

CORN   MEAL   GRUEL. 

Mix  1  tablespoon  corn  meal,  i/o  teaspoon  salt  and  2  table- 
spoons cold  water.  Add  1  pint  boiling  water,  simmer  slowly 
1  hour.  In  serving  bowl  put  2  tablespoons  cream,  1  lump 
sugar,  strain  in  gruel,  stir  for  a  moment  and  serve.  Flour 
and  arrowroot  gruel  is  made  in  the  same  way,  but  cooked  only 
10  minutes.  Farina  gruel  is  made  with  milk  and  cooked  1 
hour  in  double  boiler.     Boil  oatmeal  gruel  1  hour  and  strain. 

BARLEY    WATER. 

Wash  2  tablespoons  pearl  barley,  scald  with  boiling  water, 
hoil  5  minutes,  strain.  Add  2  quarts  of  cold  water,  simmer 
till  reduced  %.  Strain,  add  lemon  juice  to  taste.  Good  in 
fevers. 

WINE  WHET. 

Scald  1  cup  milk,  add  1  cup  wine,  cook  gently  till  it 
wheys.      Strain  through  cheesecloth. 

BEEF  TEA. 

Chop  very  fine  1  pound  lean  beef-round.  Cover  with  y% 
pint  cold  water.  Stand  in  cold  place  1  hour.  Set  over  hot 
water,  stir  till  liquid  ibegins  to  turn  color.  Strain,  add 
pinch  salt.     To  re-heat,  set  cup  in  pan  of  hot  water. 

RESTORATIVE    JELLY. 

Put  in  glass  jar  i/o  box  granulated  gelatine,  1  tablespoon 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK  195 

granulated  gum  arabic,  2  cloves,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  lemon  juice,  1  cup  port  wine.  Stand  in  kettle 
cold  water,  beat  till  all  is  dissolved.  Strain  into  sballow 
disb.     Chill.     Cut  in  ^-incb  squares. 

CHICKEN  JELLY. 

One  young  chicken,  1  gallon  water,  1  tablespoon  rice,  salt. 
Pound  a  nicely  cleaned  young  chicken,  bones  and  all,  and 
put  it  on  to  boil  in  1  gallon  water  with  a  little  salt.  Tie  up 
a  tablespoon  rice  and  drop  it  in  until  it  is  soft,  then  take  the 
rice  out  and  boil  down  to  1  pint.  Strain  the  jelly  from  the 
chicken  and  let  cool.  One  tablespoon  of  this  is  as  nourishing 
as  a  plate  of  soup  and  more  delicate. 

BROILED   RAW    BEEF    CAKES. 

Scrape  the  pulp  from  a  round  beefsteak,  add  salt,  shape 
into  small  flat  cakes,  place  on  a  buttered  broiler  and  cook  4 
minutes,  turning  every  10  seconds.  Put  tiny  bits  of  butter 
on  the  cakes,  but  not  enough  to  make  them  greasy.  Scraping 
the  meat  in  place  of  running  it  through  a  chopper  separates 
the  nutritious  part  from  the  indigestible  fiber,  thus  making 
it  easy  of  digestion  for  the  invalid,  as  well  as  strengthening. 

MILK    TOAST. 

Stale  bread,  buttermilk,  salt.  There  is  more  than  one  way 
to  make  milk  toast.  That's  why  it  is  sometimes  very  good 
and  sometimes  different.  Start  by  cutting  the  bread  in  slices 
about  1-3  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  them  in  a  hot  oven  to 
brown  until  they  are  crisp  all  the  way  through.  Butter  the 
bottom  of  a  frying-pan,  put  in  the  milk  and  heat  gradually 
up  to  the  boiling  point.  Have  the  toasted  bread  well  buttered 
and  spread  it  on  a  platter.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and 
pour  the  hot  milk  over  it,  serving  at  once.  Allow  about  a 
quart  of  milk  for  10  or  a  dozen  slices  of  bread. 


196  FOOD  FOE  THE  SICK 

EGGNOG. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  until  very  light,  add  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  and  a  speck  of  salt,  and  beat  until  creamy.  Add  very 
slowly  1  tablespoon  of  brandy,  or  more,  if  egg  still  has  a 
raw  taste.  Add  %  cup  of  milk  or  whipped  cream  and  last  of 
all  the  stiffly-beaten  white  of  the  egg. 

ALBUMINIZED    SHERRY. 

Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  stiff,  and  beat  in  slowly  sugar  to 
taste  and  1  tablespoon  of  sherry.     Serve  cold. 

ALBUMINIZED    ORANGE    OR    LEMON. 

Add  the  juice  of  1  orange  or  1  lemon  to  the  unbeaten 
white  of  1  egg.  Blend  thoroughly  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Strain  over  cracked  ice  and  serve. 

SANDWICHES    FOR    INVALIDS. 

Scrape  raw  beef,  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread.  Put  in  oven  until  bread 
is  a  little  brown,  and  the  beef  is  heated. 

GRAPE-WHIP. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  until  it  foams;  to  it  add  %  cup 
of  grape-juice,  in  which  5  tablespoons  of  sugar  have  been 
dissolved  and  1  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream.  Whip  and  as  the 
froth  rises  take  it  off  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Pour  the  un- 
whipped  part  into  a  glass  and  pile  the  whipped  part  on  top. 


HINTS  FOR  HOUSEKEEPERS 


SALAD. 


One-fourth  pound  dressed  fowl  will  yield  1  quart  chopped 
meat.     1  quart  salad  will  serve  10  persons. 

ICE    CREAM. 

One  gallon  will  serve  25  persons,  or  30  served  in  sherbet 
glasses. 

SOUP. 

Two  quarts  soup  will  serve  8  to  10  persons. 

COFFEE. 

One  gallon  coffee  makes  25  cups,  or  40  after-dinner  cups; 
%  pound  coffee  makes  1  gallon. 

TEA. 

One  gallon  to  40  or  50  people  in  after-dinner  cups. 

CHOCOLATE. 

One  gallon  will   serve   30   persons ;    1/2   pound  makes   1 
gallon. 

WHIPPED    CREAM. 

One  quart  yields  25  spoonfuls. 

LEMONADE  OR  FRUIT  PUNCH. 

One  gallon  to  30  people,  served  in  punch  glasses. 

SANDWICHES. 

One  loaf  bread  will  make  20  three-cornered  or  10  large 
sandwiches ;  1  pound  butter  to  3  loaves. 


198  HINTS  FOR  HOUSEKEEPERS 

CROQUETTES. 

One  and  one-half  quarts  meat  makes  25  croquettes;  1 
quart  mixture  fills  15  or  20  patties;  200  to  210  olives  to  1 
quart  (bottle. 

NUTS. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  salted  nuts  to  25  or  30  people. 

CANDY. 

One  pound  bonbons  to  20  people. 


THINGS  YOU  OUGHT  TO  KNOW 

FIFTEEN  USES  OF  A  LEMON. 

Few  people  realize  the  value  of  lemons,  which  cannot  be 
overestimated;  in  cases  of  fever,  sore  throat  or  torpid  liver 
the  medicinal  qualities  are  excellent. 

1.  Two  or  three  slices  of  lemon  in  a  cup  of  strong  tea  will 
cure  a  nervous  headache. 

2.  A  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  in  a  small  cup  of  black 
coffee  will  relieve  a  bilious  headache. 

3.  The  juice  of  half  a  lemon  in  a  cup  of  hot  water  taken 
on  awakening  in  the  morning  is  an  excellent  liver  corrective 
and  successful  substitute  for  calomel  and  other  alterative 
drugs. 

4.  A  dash  of  lemon  juice  in  plain  water  makes  a  cleansing 
tooth  wash,  not  only  removing  the  tartar,  but  sweetening  the 
breath. 

5.  A  lotion  of  lemon-juice  and  rose-water  will  remove  tan 
and  whiten  the  skin. 

6.  Lemon  juice  and  olive  oil  is  far  superior  to  vinegar 
for  a  salad  dressing — equal  parts  used  for  blending. 

7.  Lemon  juice  and  loaf  sugar  is  good  for  hoarseness. 

8.  Outward  applications  of  the  juice  allay  irritation 
caused  by  insect  bites. 

9.  A  refreshing  drink  is  made  by  adding  a  fresh-beaten 
egg  to  lemonade,  and 

10.  The  same  mixture  when  frozen  makes  a  delicious  ice. 

11.  If  when  boiling  sago  or  rice  a  teaspoon  of  lemon-juice 
is  added  the  kernels  will  be  whiter  and  a  delicate  flavor  is 
imparted. 

12.  An  old-fashioned  remedy  for  croup,  we  remember,  is 
honey,  alum  and  lemon  juice. 

13.  We  all  know  the  value  of  salt  and  lemon  juice  for  re- 
moving rust  stains  from  white  ffoods. 


200  THINGS  YOU  OUGHT  TO  KNOW 

14.  After  the  juice  is  extracted  from  a  lemon  the  rind 
dipped  in  salt  cleanses  brass  beautifully  and  conveniently. 

15.  It  also  removes  unsightly  stains  from  the  hands. 

TO    REMOVE    MILDEW. 

Dissolve  1  pound  of  sal  soda  and  1  5-cent  box  of  chloride 
of  lime  in  about  1  gallon  of  boiling  rain  water.  Dip  the 
fabric  up  and  down  in  this  until  the  mildew  is  removed,  then 
rinse  in  4  or  5  waters.  This  will  remove  any  kind  of  stain. 
— Mrs.  Alex.  Cheek. 

TO    REMOVE    MILDEW. 

Dip  the  stained  cloth  in  buttermilk  and  lay  in  the  sun. — 
Mrs.  Geo.  Baucom. 

IRON  RUST. 

This  may  be  removed  by  salt  mixed  with  a  little  lemon 
juice;  then  put  in  the  sun.  If  necessary  use  2  applications. 
Another  way  it  may  be  removed :  Put  the  article  into  kero- 
sene oil,  allowing  it  to  remain  for  some  time.  The  rust  will 
then  become  loosened  and  easily  come  off. — Mrs.  Geo.  Bau- 
com. 

CLEANING  FLUID. 

For  cleaning  carpets,  rugs,  mattings,  silk  and  woolen  goods, 
take  2  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  dissolve  15  cents  worth 
of  Ivory  soap  in  it.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  20  min- 
utes, then  add  sulphuric  ether,  y2  ounce ;  alcohol,  3  ounces ; 
ammonia  No.  26  F.;  1%  ounces. 

FURNITURE  POLISH. 

Equal  parts  of  boiled  linseed  oil,  turpentine  and  vinegar 
mixed. 

FOR   CLEANING  POLISHED   BRASS. 

Mix  1  ounce  of  oxalic  acid,  6  ounces  of  rotten-stone,  all 
in  powder,  1  ounce  of  sweet  oil  and  enough  water  to  make  a 


THINGS  YOU  OUGHT  TO  KNOW  201 

paste.     Apply  sparingly  and  rub  dry  with,  flannel  or  chamois 
skin. — Mrs.  A.  T.  Barnes. 

FOR    CLEANING   SILVER. 

Mix  y%  ounce  fine  salt,  y2  ounce  of  powdered  alum  and 
y2  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar.  Put  them  into  a  large  porcelain 
or  stone  pitcher  and  put  in  2  quarts  of  water.  Stir  until 
entirely  dissolved,  then  put  in  bottles  and  cork  closely.  Pour 
some  of  the  liquid  into  a  bowl  and  wash  the  silver. — Mrs. 
A.  T.  Barnes. 

If  there  is  a  full  moon  between  1st  and  20th  of  April 
there  will  be  frost  within  3  days.  If  moon  fulls  after  20th 
no  frost.  If  moon  fulls  between  15th  and  30th  of  October 
there  will  be  a  killing  frost  in  3  days  of  full  moon. — Rev. 
Elias  Dodson. 

MAGIC    FURNITURE    POLISH. 

One-half  pint  alcohol,  y2  ounce  resin,  y2  ounce  gum-shel- 
lac, a  few  drops  analine  brown;  let  stand  overnight  and  add 
%  pint  raw  linseed  oil  and  y2  pint  spirits  turpentine;  shake 
well  before  using.  Apply  with  cotton  flannel  and  rub  dry 
with  another  cloth. — Dixie. 

FOR    A    BURN. 

Cover  with  scraped  Irish  potato.  Renew  until  ceases  to 
pain ;  or,  spread  mentholatum  or  soft  linen  and  bind  to  it,  or 
use  same  for  snake  bite. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  until  light,  then  mix  with  enough 
lard  to  form  a  paste.     Spread  on  cloth  and  apply. 

TO  REMOVE   STAINS. 

Yellow  stains  in  marble  basins  caused  by  dripping  water 
can  be  removed  with  pulverized  chalk  moistened  with  am- 
monia.    Apply  with  tooth-brush. 


202  THINGS  YOU  OUGHT  TO  KNOW 

FOR   COAX,    CLINKERS.    . 

Place  oyster  shell  in  the  firebox  of  the  stove  and  they  will 
be  loosened,  and  if  one  is  kept  in  stove  constantly  clinkers  will 
not  return. — Mrs.  C.  M.  Cooper, 

TO     REMOVE     RING    STAINS     MADE     BY     CLEANING    FLUID. 

The  stain  will  disappear  if  the  fabric  is  held  in  the  steam 
from  kettle  for  few  minutes.  The  fabric  must  be  perfectly 
dry  or  a  serious  accident  may  result  of  its  closeness  to  the  fire. 

For  a  paste  that  will  prevent  wall  paper  from  coming  off 
take  a  sufficient  amount  of  buttermilk;  strain  and  put  in  a 
kettle.  Heat  and  thicken  with  flour  as  for  any  other  flour 
paste.  This  will  not  soil  the  most  delicate  paper.  If  the 
wall  to  be  covered  is  crumbly  brush  over  with  the  paste  be- 
fore putting  on  the  paper  and  it  will  stick. 

Lemon  juice  and  salt  will  remove  iron  rust  stains  from 
white  goods. 

RULE  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 

All  vegetables  that  grow  above  the  ground  should  be  cooked 
in  fresh  boiling  water,  to  which  salt  has  been  added.  All 
vegetables  that  grow  under  the  ground  should  not  be  salted 
until  they  are  cooked  and  all  the  water  has  been  drained  off. 

Salt  thrown  on  a  coal  fire  when  broiling  steak  will  prevent 
blazing  from  the  dripping  fat. 

A  new  enameled  or  agate  ware  kitchen  vessel  should  be 
filled  with  clean  water  and  placed  over  a  hot  fire.  Just  when 
the  water  begins  to  boil  drop  into  it  a  teaspoonful  of  borax 
and  a  lemon  cut  in  half.  Let  the  water  boil  rapidly  for  ten 
minutes,  then  remove  the  vessel  and  do  not  empty  it  until 
quite  cool.  It  is  said  that  this  is  the  best  annealing  process 
for  such  wares,  and  that  it  will  prevent  the  enameled  lining 
from  chipping,  which  is  the  only  fault  that  can  be  found  in 
these  articles. 

If  new  tinware  is  rubbed  over  with  fresh  lard  thoroughly 


THINGS  YOU  OUGHT  TO  KNOW  203 

heated  in  the  oven  before  it  is  used,  it  will  never  rust  after- 
ward, no  matter  how  much  it  is  put  into  water. 

TO    REMOVE    INK    STAIN. 

Soak  in  sour  milk.  If  a  dark  stain  remains,  rinse  in  a 
weak  solution  of  chloride  of  lime. 

TO    SEED    RAISINS. 

Cover  with  hot  water  and  let  stand  15  minutes.  Then  re- 
move seeds. 

TO    SOFTEN    OLD    PUTTY. 

A  red  hot  iron  will  soften  old  putty  so  that  it  can  easily 
be  removed. 

TO    REMOVE    A    GLASS    STOPPER. 

Heat  the  neck  of  the  bottle  a  few  seconds  with  a  lighted 
match. 

TO  TOUGHEN  LAMP  CHIMNEYS. 

Place  the  chimney  in  a  pot  of  cold  water,  to  which  some 
salt  has  been  added.  Boil  the  water  well  and  then  cool 
slowly.  Glass  treated  thus  will  withstand  a  sudden  change 
of  temperature. 

TO    CLEAN    STOVEPIPE. 

A  piece  of  zinc  put  on  live  coals  in  the  stove  will  clean 
out  the  stovepipe. 

TO   WASH   MATTING. 

Wipe  off  with  a  cloth  wrung  from  salt  water.  This  will 
prevent  matting  from  turning  yellow. 

TO    CLEAN    GILDED    FRAMES. 

Gently  wipe  them  with  a  fine  cotton  cloth  dipped  in  sweet 
oil. 


204  THINGS  YOU  OUGHT  TO  KNOW 


TO   REMOVE   GRASS   STAINS. 

Saturate  the  spot  thoroughly  with  kerosene,  then  put  in 
the  wash  tub. 

TO    REMOVE    FRUIT    STAINS. 

Stretch  the  fabric  containing  the  stain  over  the  mouth 
of  a  basin  and  pour  boiling  water  on  the  stain.  If  the  stain 
has  been  fixed  by  time,  soak  the  article  in  a  weak  solution  of 
oxalic  acid,  or  hold  it  over  the  fumes  of  sulphur. 

Paraffine  used  on  tops  of  preserve-glasses  can  be  saved 
until  the  next  season  by  washing  in  cold  water  and  putting 
in  a  tin  box  with  a  tight  lid. 

Ivory  knife  handles  that  have  become  blackened  may  be 
cleaned  by  rubbing  them  with  lemon  dipped  in  salt,  after 
which  they  should  be  washed  in  cold  water,  and  they  will  be 
quite  white  again. 


KITCHEN  SUGGESTIONS 

Buy  a  small  paint  ibrnsh  and  keep  it  in  or  near  the  grease 
used  for  greasing  bread,  cake  pans,  etc.  Saves  time  and 
patience. 

Never  peel  pumpkins ;  wash,  cut  up  fine  and  cook,  run 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  you  will  find  it  fine  and  creamy. 

Do  not  peel  apples  for  mince  meat.  Simply  wash  them, 
cut  out  core  and  all  specks,  run  them  through  the  food  chop- 
per, and  you  have  retained  the  very  best  part  of  the  apple, 
and  no  one  will  ever  notice  the  peel  in  the  meat. 

Wash  all  knives  used  for  peeling  onions  or  garlic  in  cold 
water  and  all  odor  will  disappear.  Also  odor  of  onions  on 
the  hands  will  disappear  if  you  let  the  water  from  the  cold 
faucet  run  on  them  for  a  few  minutes. 

Turn  pans  in  which  onions  have  been  cooked  over  a  good 
pinch  of  salt  on  a  hot  stove  lid  to  remove  all  odor. 

Before  baking  potatoes,  peel  them  and  rub  with  bacon  or 
butter.  The  outside  will  be  a  delicious  brown,  which  can  be 
eaten  with  the  rest  of  the  potato. 

When  cooking  lima  beans,  rice  or  anything  that  foams  or 
sputters  onto  the  stove,  drop  a  small  lump  of  butter  into  the 
stewpan,  and  there  will  be  no  more  trouble. 

Roll  pastry  in  one  direction  only.  Turn  the  crust  so  as 
always  to  roll  the  one  way. 

White  of  egg  beaten  and  dropped  into  a  kettle  of  soup  will 
clear  it  of  all  impurities.     Remove  egg  when  it  curdles. 

Add  water  to  omelette ;  milk  makes  the  eggs  tough. 

When  baking  pork  and  beans,  drop  in  sliced  carrot  an 
hour  before  ready  to  serve. 

WHAT  RAW  POTATO  WILL  DO. 

Rub  a  raw  potato  over  water  marks  in  glasses  or  pitchers 
and  the  stains  will  disappear. 

Fill  the  vinegar  cruet  with  grated,  raw  potato,   and  let 


206  KITCHEN  SUGGESTIONS 

stand  a  few  hours,  shake  out,  rinse  with  clear  water  and  it 
will  be  beautifully  clear,  all  stains  having  disappeared. 

Bind  grated  raw  potato  on  a  bruise  or  burn  and  instant  re- 
lief will  be  the  result. 

In  using  all  canned  commodities,  thej  are  much  improved 
if  opened  several  hours  before  being  served.  Remove  the 
contents  of  the  can,  pouring  over  them  a  little  boiling  water ; 
then  drain  and  expose  to  the  air  in  a  cool  place;  salmon, 
shrimps  and  lobster  if  treated  in  this  manner  can  hardly  be 
told  from  the  fresh  fish. 


HOUSEWIFELY  ADVICE 

Place  an  apple  in  the  ibread  and  cake  boxes  to  keep  bread 
and  cake  moist. 

Add  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  strong  turnips 
when  cooking. 

Try  rubbing  tough  meat  with  a  cut  lemon  to  make  it  ten- 
der. 

Sprinkle  clothes  with  hot  water  and  a  whisk-broom. 

Mix  stove  blacking  with  a  little  ammonia  to  prevent  its 
burning  off. 

Add  a  few  drops  of  ammonia  to  the  blue  water  to  whiten 
clothes. 

Wash  dish  towels  in  cold  water  with  plenty  of  soap,  and 
rinse  in  cold  water  every  time  they  are  used. 

CLEANING    SILVER. 

Silver  which  is  in  general  use  may  be  kept  in  good  condi- 
tion without  constant  cleaning.  Dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  borax  in  your  dishpan  of  hot  water;  add  a  little 
soap,  enough  to  form  a  lather,  and  put  the  silver  into  it.  Let 
it  stand  for  about  three  hours ;  then  rinse  the  silver  with 
clean  cold  water,  and  rub  perfectly  dry. 

AN   ECONOMICAL    HINT. 

When  canning  or  spicing  fruit,  save  the  surplus  juice  in 
airtight  jars,  and  when  you  make  your  home-made  mince 
meat,  pour  these  juices  into  the  mixture. 

In  cleaning  a  large  article  where  a  quantity  of  gasoline  is 
required,  not  a  particle  of  the  fluid  need  be  wasted,  as  that 
remaining  may  be  carefully  filtered  and  used  again.  Filter 
paper  can  ibe  bought  at  the  drug  store  for  two  cents  a  sheet 
and  it  will  remove  every  particle  of  dirt  from  the  gasoline. 

If  a  small  uncorked  bottle  of  kerosene  oil  is  placed  inside 
the  case  of  a  clock  its  daily  evaporation  will  oil  the  works 
and  tend  to  keep  it  in  better  running  order,  thereby  avoiding 
a  bill  for  cleaning  and  repairs. 


