BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  07801  038  4 


Q^f-. 


m 


>»>«>«»«»»>«»«»»♦♦«♦♦♦•»♦♦♦♦»»»»»»«>«»»*>»»««««»«♦»«««♦♦♦»«< 


SijMand  l^Bptal 


m««»»«t»»«*«»»»«*«*»««»»*»»«««««*««*«»«»«««**«*»»»«««««»*««»««»«»»«»»«»»»«f«»»«»» ♦««»»««»««♦»«♦♦♦ 


>**«»»****f**»*****»*«*»*»tt*t****»»»***f»**»»*»ft»»»*»»*»»»»wnf  »»*»>»»»»»•»»**»»•*•»****** 


(S^m  §00i 


*>>♦>«»»>»««««>»>*•»»»>>»»>>*>»>«««»»» ■«»«««>»»«««»»»»»  «>>»»»««»>«»7»»>t>»«»»MT»ipirM» 


A  Few  Valuable  Recipes. 

With  apologies  to  Eddie  Bok's  "Home  Journal." 


Clear  Soup. 

Take  two  pints  of  water ;  wash  them  thoroughly  on  both  sides ;  pour 
into  a  dish  or  something  and  stir  around  in  the  kitchen  until  done. 

Plum  Pie. 

Make  a  tough  dough  ;  hammer  out  a  front  and  back  breadth ;  line  a 
dish  with  India  rubber  overshoes  ;  put  around  a  veneering  of  dough  ;  fill 
the  dish  with  BrummeFs  cough  drops  ;  put  on  the  top  crust ;  feather  stitch 
around  the  edges  and  bake  in  a  tinker's  furnace. 

An  Inexpensive  Dish. 

A  three  cent  tin  plate. 

Calves'  Foot  Jelly. 

Get  trusted  for  a  Chicago  calf,  (they  have  the  largest  feet),  cut  off  the 
calf,  which  can  be  used  for  hash  or  chicken  salad  ;  wash  the  feet ;  thicken 
with  fish  glue  and  a  few  drops  of  molasses  ;  strain  through  a  cane  seated 
chair  (rocker  preferred);  pour  slowly  into  a  blue  bowl  with  red  pictures  on 
the  outside  of  it ;  set  under  the  Christmas  tree  until  it  becomes  of  the 
proper  consistency. 

Ice  Cream. 

Dry  a  piece  of  ice  in  the  sun ;  wipe  thoroughly  with  a  damp  cloth ; 
stir  in  some  cold  cream  or  camphorated  vaseline  ;  flavor  with  ammonia  or 
kerosene  oil ;  fan  until  it  freezes,  and  garnish  with  spinach.  This  should 
be  served  with  hot  soup. 

To  Drop  Eggs. 

Let  go  your  hold  on  them. 

Pound  Cake. 

Mix  up  a  pound  of  flour  and  other  ingredients  ;  place  in  a  "cut  glass" 
dish  and  pound;  bake  in  a  refrigerator  for  half  an  hour.  This  will  be 
found  a  valuable  recipe. 

Stomach  Cake  or  Stomach  Ache, 

Line  a  small  boy's  stomach  with  green  apples,  cucumbers,  ice  water, 
and  peaches  of  "emerald  hue."  This  is  an  economical  recipe  and  can  be 
done  at  short  notice. 


(U^^The  above  recipes  are  furnished  us  by  a  valued  correspondent  and 
are  offered,  without  charge  and  without  guarantee,— we  know  more  about 
our  own  business. 

She  ®att0U  dlertrir  ®0. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL 


COOK  BOOK 


COMPILED  BY 


Mrs.  Samuel   H.  Parsons. 


That  small  boy  who  interrupted  a  description  of  Heaven  to  ask  :  "Do 
they  always  have  a  good  cook  there  ?"  had  his  finger  on  the  foundation 
stone  of  human  happiness. 


— 2-<^;^H«:?^:>-^~ 


Price  50  Cents, 


The  proceeds  accruing  from  the  sale  of  this  book  are  to  be  donated  to  the 
fund  for  the  building  of  a  new  Hospital. 


FiSHKILL  STANDARD  PRINT. 


^ 


Miss  Maiii.ii  3.  Jeffries 
Oct.    22,    1913 


Officers  of  the  Highland  Hospital 

for  the  year  ending:  Sept.  30,  1900. 


Board  of  Trustees : 

WIJSTHROP  SARGENT,  President 

CHARLES  F.  BRETT,  Vice-President 

SAMUEL  K.  PHILLIPS,  Treasurer. 

MRS.  SAMUEL  VERPLANCK,  Secretary. 
MR.  JOHNT.  SMITH,  MR.  WILLIAM  BROWN, 

MRS.  WINTHROP SARGENT,  MRS.  PLATO  T.  JONES, 

MRS.  LEWIS  TOMPKINS,  MR.  SAMUEL  VERPLANCK, 

MR.  WILLIAM  T.  BLOBGETT. 


l*hysiciaiis  and  Surgeons : 

W.  ./.  CONKLIN,  M.  D.,  Consulting  Physician  and  Surgeon. 
J.  H.  DOUGHTY,  M.  D. 
HOWELL  WHITE,  M.  D. 
GEORGE  H.  WILLIAMS,  M.  D. 
J.  W.  AT  WOOD,  M.  D. 


Matron  : 
MRS.  .JOHNB.  WJIITSON. 


"It  is  the  Highland  Hospital  that  pleads, 
Great  is  her  work,  and  also  great  her  needs, 
Many  and  merciful  have  been  her  deeds, 
We  answer  to  her  call." 


The  Ladies  Board  ol  Managers  oi  the  Highland  Hospital. 


Mrs.  W.  a.  Jones,  President. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Verplanck,  First  Vice-President. 

Miss  Minnie  Kittredge,  Second  Vice-President. 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Brett,  Treasurer. 

Mrs.  W.  J.  CoNKLiN,  Secretary. 

Miss  Bertha  D.  Spaight,  Assistant  Secretary. 

Mrs.  John  B.  Whitson,  Matron. 


Miss  Eleanor  Blodgett, 

Mrs.  John  T.  Smith, 

Miss  Ella  DuBois, 

Mrs.  David  Davis, 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Alsdorf, 

Mrs.  T.  I.  McGlasson, 

Mrs.  Charles  F.  Brett, 

Mrs.  G.  H.  Williams, 

Mrs.  M.  Toohey, 

Mrs.  George  H.  Bontecou, 

Mrs.  S.  M.  Davidson, 

Mrs.  Edgar  Greene, 

Mrs.  Caroline  A.  Aldridge, 

Mrs.  S.  A.  Coldwell, 

Miss  Emily  DeW.  Seaman, 

Miss  Emma  Brinckerhoff, 

Mrs.  Lewis  Tompkins, 

Mrs.  S.  H.  Parsons, 

Mrs.  Plato  T.  Jones, 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Doughty, 

Mrs.  Abram  Brett, 

Mrs.  Charles  Sherwood, 

Mrs.  G.  V.  Draper, 

Miss  Cotheal, 

Mrs.  M.  V.  B.  Brinckerhoff, 

Mrs.  James  Dearing, 

Mrs.  I.  O.  Norris, 

Mrs.  Miles  Scofield, 

Mrs.  D.  C.  Smith, 

Mrs.  A.  J.  Edwards, 

Mrs.  Edgar  Shook, 

Mrs.  A.  H.  Dudley, 

Mrs.  E.  B.  DuMond, 

Miss  M.  Crosby, 


Miss  Grace  Darley, 
Mrs.  Robert  J.  Halgin, 
Miss  Sadie  Aldridge, 
Mrs.  S.  K.  Phillips, 
Mrs.  E.  L.  Tompkins, 
Mrs.  H.  F.  Stearns, 
Miss  Mary  Doughty, 
Miss  Jennie  Tompkins, 
Mrs.  W.  L.  Stotesbury, 
Mrs.  Thomas  S.  Nevvlin, 
Miss  Mary  Rogers, 
Miss  Rumsey, 
Mrs.  G.  A.  Schreider, 
Mrs.  Charles  H.  Watson, 
Miss  Sarah  H.  Adriance, 
Miss  Lizzie  K.  Budd, 
Miss  Ella  Budd, 
Mrs.  A.  V.  Rockwell, 
Mrs.  W.  F.  Weston, 
Mrs.  W.  VanBuren, 
Mrs.  Nathan  Smith, 
Miss  Clara  M.  Brownell, 
Mrs.  William  H.  Drew, 
Mrs.  Frederic  L.  Rosa, 
Mrs.  Howard  R.  Scofield, 
Miss  Helen  A.  Place, 
Mrs.  G.  Hunter  Brown, 
Mrs.  George  L.  Aldridge, 
Mrs.  Isaac  Morton, 
Mrs.  Bertram  L.  Smith, 
Miss  Clara  Phillips, 
Mrs.  Charles  Barker, 
Mrs.  Benjamin  Hammond, 
Miss  Reta  I.  Tompkins, 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Mrs.  James  E.  Dean, 

Mrs.  John  Luyster, 

Mrs.  L.  W.  Genun^, 

Mrs.  Howell  White, 

Miss  Louise  Barnes, 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Ivie, 

Mrs.  Charles  W.  Sparks,  Jr., 

Mrs.  W.  Van  Benschoten, 

Miss  Kate  DuBois, 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Spai^ht, 

Mrs.  D.  W.  Burnhaui, 

Miss  Annie  L.  Brinckerhoff, 

Mrs.  William  Brown, 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Jones, 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Bevier, 

Mrs.  Perry  Knickerbocker, 

Miss  Ida  Budd, 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Corwin, 

Mrs.  Jane  Greene, 

Mrs.  Solomon  Tompkins, 

Miss  L.  Benson, 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Brett, 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Hoysradt, 

Mrs.  William  Gordon, 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Joseph, 

Mrs.  Benjamin  Sullivan, 

Miss  A.  Mathers, 

Mrs.  William  E.  Knight, 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Brundage, 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Hiipfel, 

Mrs.  B.  I.  D.  Roosa, 

Miss  Emily  VanRensselaer, 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Callender, 

Mrs.  E.  B.  Beyer, 

Mrs.  Ralph  S.  Tompkins, 

Mrs.  Hobson, 

Miss  Harriet  May  Dayton, 

Miss  Grace  Dayton, 

Mrs.  William  G.  Neubauer, 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Beneway, 

Miss  Lizzie  Beneway, 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Col  well, 

Mrs.  Reginald  W.  Rives, 


Mrs.  Thomas  S.  Judson, 
Mrs.  C.  Eugene  Jaynes. 
Mrs.  Garrett  Storm, 
Miss  Lulu  M.  Taylor, 
Mrs.  Edward  P.  Pitman, 
Mrs.  E.  S.  Phillips, 
Mrs.  H.  E.  Allison, 
Mrs.  Winthrop  Sargent 
Mrs.  Challen, 
Miss  Laura  Challen, 
Miss  Kate  Robinson, 
Mrs.  Byron  Town  send, 
Mrs.  Henry  D.  Jackson, 
Miss  Charlotte  Jones, 
Miss  Cornelia  B.  Davis, 
Mrs.  John  P.  Rider, 
Mrs.  G.  H.  VandeWater, 
Mrs.  C.  W.  McPherson, 
Miss  Carrie  Jones, 
Miss  Lillie  Stevenson, 
Miss  Carlotta  Sutherland, 
Mrs.  J.  W.  Atwood, 
Mrs.  W.  F.  Sage, 
Mrs.  Edward  L.  Jay  cox. 
Miss  M.  C.  Verplanck, 
Mrs.  Thomas  Mellor, 
Miss  S.  T.  Hills, 
Miss  Lizzie  Barnard, 
Miss  Florence  Guernsey, 
Miss  Leila  Mapes, 
Miss  Katherine  Schubert, 
Mrs.  Edward  Underbill, 
Miss  Agnes  Thomson, 
Miss  Marion  Hammond, 
Mrs.  P.  H.  Vosburgh, 
Miss  Dibble, 
Miss  A.  T.  Kelley, 
Mrs.  Charles  E.  Spaight, 
Miss  A.  M.  Walker, 
Mrs.  William  Timmerman, 
Mrs.  Frank  A.  Brockway, 
Mrs.  James  Lennox  Banks, 
Mrs.  lVI.  E.  Curtiss. 


Committee  on  District  Nursing. 


Mrs.  S.  H.  Parsons, 
Mrs.  Lewis  Tompkins, 
Miss  VanRensselaer, 


Mrs.  F.  H.  Brett, 
Mrs.  J.  N.  Badeau, 
Mrs.  Stud  ley.  Nurse. 


Mrs.  T.  S.  Newlin, 
Miss  Amy  DuBois, 


THE  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL. 


At  a  meeting-  held  at  Fishkill  Landing,  January  16th,  1871,  at  the  resi- 
dence of  Henry  Slack,  M.  D.,  the  following  gentlemen  were  present : 

General  Joseph  Howland,  Rev.  Francis  R.  Masters,  D.  D.,  Rev.  Henry 
E.  Duncan,  Hon.  John  J.  Monell,  and  Henry  Slack,  M.  1). 

General  Howland  stated  that  the  object  of  this  meeting  was  to  take 
initiative  steps  toward  the  establishment  of  a  small  Hospital  in  the  town 
of  Fishkill ;  that  the  need  of  such  an  institution  for  the  relief  of  the  sick 
poor,  and  the  reception  of  persons  injured  by  accident  in  this  community, 
was  apparent,  and  concluded  by  offering  for  use  as  a  Hospital  for  one  year 
a  house  owned  by  him  in  the  village  of  Matteawan. 

The  views  of  General  Howland  were  cordially  endorsed  by  those  pres- 
ent, and  then  and  there  it  was  resolved  to  form  an  association  under  the 
statute.  Officers  were  elected,  a  committee  formed  to  draw  up  the  certifi- 
cate as  required  by  law,  and  such  other  steps  were  taken  as  was  necessary 
to  perfect  the  organization  of  the  Society. 

Such  was  the  beginning  of  The  Highland  Hospital,  an  institution  that 
has  for  nearly  thirty  years  been  in  our  town,  quietly  and  humbly  doing 
the  work  for  which  it  was  established,  namely,  giving  relief  to  the  sick  and 
injured,  and  ever  ready  to  throw  open  its  doors  for  all  who  are  worthy  of 
the  care  and  attention  that  skillful  physicians  and  faithful  nursing  can 
bestow. 

In  May,  1874,  General  Howland  formally  presented  a  deed  of  the  Hos- 
pital property  for  the  use  of  the  town,  and  from  that  time  to  this  the  little 
building  under  the  shadow  of  the  grand  old  Beacons  has  been  the  dispenser 
of  help  to  the  suffering. 

There  have  been  received  within  its  doors  over  eleven  hundred  patients, 
representing  men,  women,  and  children  of  ahuost  every  known  country, 
and  every  religious  belief  on  the  globe. 

The  Hospital  is  supported  by  the  interest  on  the  endowment  fund, 
donations  and  subscriptions  from  the  many  charitable  in  the  vicinity,  col- 
lections taken  in  the  various  churches  on  '"Hospital  Sunday,"  board  paid 
by  the  Board  of  Supervisors  for  such  patients  as  are  a  charge  upon  the 
County,  and  from  the  patients  themselves  who  are  able  to  contribute 
something  toward  their  own  support  while  inmates  of  the  institution. 

Patients  are  admitted  at  any  time,  under  direction  of  the  physicians 
on  the  medical  staff,  and,  in  cases  of  emergency,  the  matron  can  admit, 
subject  to  the  approval  later  of  the  doctor  in  charge.  Never  is  a  patient 
refused  admittance  because  of  inability  to  pay,  and  as  the  printed  reports 
published  year  after  year  plainly  show,  the  paying  patients  are  vastly  in 
the  minority. 

The  Hospital  is  governed  by  a  Board  of  Trustees  yearly  elected  by  the 
members  of  the  Highland  Hospital  Association,  which  is  composed  of  the 
subscribers  of  five  dollars  and  over.     There  is  also  a  Board  of  Lady  Man- 


HIGHLAND  HOISPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


agers,  whose  duty  it  is  to  assist  the  Board  of  Trustees  in  the  financial  sup- 
port of  the  institution,  to  visit  the  patients,  and  to  procure  such  articles 
for  the  house  as  the  Matron  shall  require. 

The  present  Hospital  building  for  several  years  has  been  so  entirely 
inadequate  for  the  demands  made  upon  it,  that  all  those  interested  in  its 
welfare  have  for  a  long  time  been  desirous  that  a  sufficient  sum  might  be 
realized  for  the  erection  of  a  fine  new  structure.  Land  has  at  last  been 
purchased  and  nearly  paid  for,  and  soon  all  hope  that  the  little  building 
now  known  as  "The  Highland  Hospital"  will  merge  into  a  beautiful  new 
structure,  with  still  the  old  name,  but  composed  of  large  wards  and  num- 
erous private  rooms,  fitted  up  with  all  the  modern  appliances  which  are 
now  required  to  make  complete  a  Hospital  of  the  present  day. 


CMARITY. 

AH  hail  to  thee,  hail  to  thee, 
Goddess  so  gracious, 
"Sweet  Charity  gentle,  enthroned  above  all, 
Thine  eye  ever  watcheth,  thine  ear  ever  listeth, 
Thou  stoopest  to  hear  when  the  suffering  call. 

T^o  child  is  too  humble,  no  toiler  too  distant, 
No  voice  is  too  feeble  to  reach  thy  kind  ear. 
Thou  liftest  the  fallen,  thou  helpest  the  weary, 
"Thou  speakest  so  gently  the  sad  one  to  cheer. 

All  hail  to  thee,  hail  to  thee, 
Lo,  we  attend  thee. 
We  bow  to  thy  greatness,  we  honor  thy  worth. 
All  thanks  for  thy  pity,  all  praise  for  thy  bounty, 
All  love  for  thy  love  to  the  children  of  earth. 

"Say,  who  is  afflicted,  who  sad  or  discouraged. 

Who  hungry  or  friendless,  in  pain  or  alone  ; 

Lo,  Charity  waiteth  to  lighten  the  burden. 

To  comfort  and  cheer,  come  and  plead  at  her  throne. 


KITCHEN  TIME  TABLE, 

Especially  prepared  by  Mrs.  B.  A.  Lincoln,  Author  of  tlie  Boston  Cook  Book. 
TIME   REQUIRED   FOR: 


BAKING 
Beans,  8  to  10  hours. 
Beef,  sirloin,rare,  perlb.,  8  to  10  min. 
"     well  done,  "  12  to  15  min. 

"  rolled  rib  or  rump,"  12  to  15  min. 

"  long  or  short  fillet,     20  to  30  min. 
Bread,  brick  loaf,  40  to  60  min. 
Biscuit,  10  to  20  min. 
Cake,  plain,  20  to  40  min. 

"       sponge,  45  to  60  min. 
Chickens,  3  to  4  lbs.,  1  to  H  hrs. 
Cookies,  10  to  15  min. 
Custards,  15  to  20  min. 
Duck,  tame,  40  to  60  min. 
Fish,  6  to  8  lbs.,  1  hour. 
Gingerbread,  20  to  30  min. 
Grraham  Gems,  30  min. 
Halibut,  4  to  6  lbs.,  1  hour. 
Lamb,  well  done,  per  lb.,  15  min. 
Meat,  braised,  3  to  4  hours. 
Mutton,  rare,  per  lb.,  10  min. 

"        well  done,  per  lb.,  15  min. 
Pie  Crust,  30  to  40  min. 
Pork,  well  done,  per  lb.,  30  min. 
Potatoes,  30  to  45  min. 
Pudding,  bread,  rice,  tapioca,  1  hr. 

"  plum,  2  to  3  hours. 

Rolls,  10  to  15  min. 
Turkey,  10  lbs.,  3  hours. 
Veal,  well  done,  per  lb.,  20  min. 

BOILING 

Asparagus,  15  to  20  min. 
Bass,  per  lb.,  10  min. 
Beans,  shell,  1  to  2  hours. 

"       string,  2  hours. 
Beef-a-la-mode,  3  to  4  hours. 
Beets,  young,  45  to  60  min. 
Blue  Fish,  per  lb.,  10  min. 
Brown  Bread,  3  hours. 
Cabbage,  young,  30  to  45  min. 
Carrots,  45  to  60  min. 
Cauliflower,  30  to  45  min. 
Celery,  30  to  45  min. 
Chickens,  45  to  60  min. 
Clams,  3  to  5  min. 
Cod,  per  lb.,  6  min. 
Coffee,  3  to  5  min. 
Corn,  green,  5  to  8  min. 


Corned  Beef,  4  to  5  hours. 
Eggs,  3  to  5  min. 

"     hard  boiled,  15  to  20  min. 
Fowls,  2  to  3  hours. 
Haddock,  per  lb.,  6  min. 
Halibut,  per  lb.,  cubical,  15  min. 
Ham,  5  hours. 
Hominy,  1  to  2  hours. 
Lamb,  1  hour. 
Macaroni,  20  to  30  min. 
Oatmeal,  1  to  2  hours. 
Onions,  30  to  45  min. 
Oysters.  3  min. 
Oyster  Plant,  30  to  60  min. 
Parsnips,  30  to  45  min. 
Peas,  15  to  20  min. 
Potatoes,  20  to  30  min. 
Rice,  15  to  20  min. 
Salmon,  per  lb.,  cubical,  15  min. 
Small  Fish,  per  lb.,  6  min. 
Smoked  Tongue,  3  to  4  hours. 
Spinach,  20  to  30  min. 
Squash,  20  to  30  min. 
Sweetbreads,  20  to  ,30  min. 
Tomatoes,  15  to  20  min. 
Turkey,  2  to  3  hours. 
Turnips,  30  to  45  min. 
Veal,  2  to  3  hours. 
Wheat,  1  to  2  hours. 
Winter  Vegetables,  1  to  2  hours, 

BROILING 

Chickens,  20  min. 

Chops,  8  min. 

Steak,  1  inch  thick,  4  to  6  min. 

"        li  inch  thick,  6  to  8  min. 
Fish,  small  thin,  5  to  8  min. 

"      thick,  12  to  15  min. 

FRYING 

Bacon,  3  to  5  min. 
Breaded  Chops,  4  to  6  min. 
Croquettes,  1  min. 
Doughnuts,  3  to  5  min. 
Fish  Balls,  1  min. 
Fritters,  3  to  5  min. 
Muffins,  3  to  5  min. 
Slices  of  Fish,  4  to  6  min. 
Small  Fish,  1  to  3  min. 
Smelts,  1  min. 


Table  of  Weights  and  Measures. 


4  teaspoonf  uls  of  liquid 1  tablespoonf  ul 

1  pint  of  liquid 1  pound 

2  gills  of  liquid 1  cup  or  Vi  pint 

2  round  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour 1  ounce 

4  cups  of  bread  flour 1  quart  or  1  pound 

1  cup  of  biUter J^  pound 


1  pint  of  butter 1  pound 

1  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter 1  ounce 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 2  ounces 

10  eggs 1  pound 

2  cui)s  of  granulated  sugar 1  pound 

2^2  cups  of  powdered  sugar 1  pound 


J^i(5l7laF>d  J^ospital  (?ooK  Bool^. 


SOUPS. 

It  is  the  bounty  of  nature  that  we  live, 

But  of  philosophy  that  we  live  well.     Seneca. 


Salmon  Soup. 

i  can  salmon,  1  quart  milk, 

slice  of  onion,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  2  tablespoon fuls  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  pepper. 

Remove  skin,  bone,  and  oil  from  salmon  ;  chop  it  fine.  Boil  one  quart  of 
milk  ;  cook  onion  in  milk  ten  minutes  ;  remove  onion,  thicken  milk  with 
flour  and  butter  worked  together,  add  fish  ;  heat,  strain,  add  parsley,  and 
serve.  Mrs.  S.  A.  Coldwell. 

Tomato  Soup. 

1  can  tomatoes,  1  quart  boiling  water ;  strain,  add  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1 
pint  milk,  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  let  it  scald,  not  hoil ;  add  2 
rolled  crackers.  Annie  L.  Bi-inckerhoff. 

Tomato  Soup. 

1  quart  tomatoes,  3  pints  milk, 

3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,     2  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  1  scant  teaspoonful  soda. 

Put  the  tomatoes  on  to  stew,  add  soda  while  boiling.  Put  the  milk  on 
to  boil  in  a  double  boiler,  add  the  flour  and  butter  mixed  together  to  the 
milk  ;  strain  the  tomatoes,  then  add  to  the  milk,  butter  and  flour. 

Bran  Soup. 

For  every  quart  of  water  1  pint  of  bran.  While  water  is  boiling  stir  in 
bran  very  slowly,  simmer  slowly  at  least  three  hours  ;  strain,  add  more  hot 
water  to  bran  and  strain  again  ;  salt  to  taste. 

For  Soup.— 3  quarts  of  stock  to  0  of  boiling  water,  1  quart  of  strained 
stewed  tomatoes,  3  large  heads  of  celery,  or  celery  salt,  3  large  onions  sliced 
fine,  \  teaspoonful  powdered  mint  in  bag.  Simiuer  all  together  half  an 
hour,  salt  to  taste,  strain.  If  preferred,  cut  whole  wheat  bread  in  cubes, 
brown  slowly.  This  makes  a  delicious,  very  nutritious,  and  economical 
dish.  Miss  Emily  Vanllensselaer. 

Wm.  T.  Reynolds  &  Go's  ''Perfect"  Tomatoes— Hich,  Red,  Round,  Ripe. 


10  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


I^h^  Iii[f3t  5iJational  lanli  of  ll^hliill  landing. 


ORGANIZED    1863. 


Capital  $100,0C0 ;  Surplus  and  Profits  $84,000. 


John  T.  Smith,  President,  ^ 

Robert  J.  Halgin,  Vice-President, 

M.  E.  Ourtiss,  Cashier. 


A  general  banking  business  done. 
Collections  promptly  attended  to. 
•Correspondents  in  New  York,  Boston,  and  Philadelphia, 


W.  H.  &  W.  F.  WESTON, 

Grass  Seed,  Fertilizer,  Salt, 

FEED,  HAY,  GRAIN,  MASON'S  SUPPLIES, 

-#iCOALs4>- 

Flagging,  Coping,  Crushed  Stone  and  Screened  Gravel. 


171  Main  street  and  Long  Wharf,  Fishkill  Landing. 


USE 


Bevier's  Expectorant 

FOR  COUGHS  AND  COLDS. 
Sold  everywhere.    25c. 


Bevier's   Malaria  Pills 

cure  all  Malaria  troubles.    Price  25c. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITA  L  COOK  BOOK.  n 


Clam  Soup. 

25  clams  cut  in  small  pieces  with  tbeir  juice,  2  quarts  of  water,  1  chopped 
onion,  salt  and  pepper.  For  thickeninar,  take  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  hickory  nut,  and  rub  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wheat  flour.  Boil  all  10 
minutes;  after  taking:  from  the  fire  add  a  pint  of  milk  which  has  been 
beaten  up  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Mrs.  David  Dams. 

Tomato  Soup. 

1  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  tablespoonful  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  pint  hot  water, 

a  little  red  pepper. 

Let  the  tomatoes  and  water  come  to  a  boil,  rub  flour,  butter,  and  a  little 
of  the  tomatoes  together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  mixture.  Strain  through 
a  sieve  fine  enough  to  retain  the  seeds.  Mrs.  Howard  Seofleld. 


Tomato  Soup. 

1  quart  water,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour, 

2  cupfuls  strained  tomato,  1  tablespoonful  beef  drippings, 
1  small  onion,                                     1  teaspoon ful  salt, 

speck  pepper. 
Make  same  as  tomato  sauce;    just  before  serving  pour  into  the  soup 
tureen  \  cup  cream  or  milk  ;  pour  the  soup  into  it  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Atwood. 


Black  Bean  Soup. 

1  pint  of  black  beans  boiled  in  2  quarts  of  water,  with  \  pound  salt  pork, 
for  three  or  four  hours. 

Strain  and  season,  and  add  a  few  allspice  and  2  chopped  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  just  before  serving  put  in  a  sliced  lemon.  A  glass  of  sherry  stir- 
ed  through,  the  last  thing,  adds  to  the  flavor.     Serve  with  bread  dice. 

Mrs.  Dearing. 

Bisque  Soup. 

\  can  tomatoes,  1  quart  milk,  scalded, 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  or  flour, 

salt  and  pepper. 
Stew  the  tomatoes  until  soft  enough  to  strain  easily.  Put  the  butter  and 
cornstarch  together  in  a  small  saucepan,  adding  enough  hot  milk  to  make 
it  pour  easily  ;  stir  this  carefully  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  boil  ten  minutes  ; 
add  the  salt,  pepper,  and  strained  tomato,  and  serve  very  hot.  If  the 
tomatoes  are  very  acid,  add  i  salt  spoon  of  soda  before  straining. 

Emily  DeW.  J^ea?nan. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range,  -  See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


13  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


NCORPORATED    MARCH,    1871. 


Tl]e  Matteawaii  fevlngs  Bai]k 

An  Incorporated  Institution  for  Savings. 


Open  daily  from  9  o'clock  a.  m.  to  8  o'clock  p.  m. 

Interest  will  be  allowed  on  all  Deposits  not  exceeding-  $3,000,  and  all  sums 
deposited  will  begin  to  draw  interest  on  the  first  of  every  month. 

The  Interest  will  be  credited  Semi- Annually  on  the  first  days  of  May  and 

iSovember,  and  if  not  withdrawn  will  be  added  to  the  principal, 

and  will  also  draw  Interest. 


Samuel  K.  Phillips,  President ;    Thomas  S.  Judson,  First  Vice-President ; 

John  Schofield,  Second  Vice-President ; 

Granville  VanVliet,  Treasurer  ;  Theodore  VanVliet,  Secretary. 


Dutchess  Tool  Co., 
Machinists  and  Iron  Founders 

Iron  Castings  of  all  descriptions. 
New  Machinery  constructed. 
Repair  work,  Pattern  work, 
Drawings,  etc.,  executed. 


Dutchess  Tool  Co.,  Fishkill-on-Hudson,  N.  Y, 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  13 

Potage  Jacqueline. 

3  pints  of  f?ood  chicken  stock,  well  flavored  with  onion,  herbs,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  strained. 

Heat  1  cup  of  creaui,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  2  of  butter,  in  a  double 
boiler  ;  add  carefully,  4  or  5  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Do  not  let  it  boil  after 
this,  but,  at  the  side  of  the  fire,  thin  it  with  a  little  of  the  soup,  then  add 
it  to  the  rest,  with  a  tablespoonful  each  of  boiled  rice,  peas,  and  diced  car- 
rot, all  cooked.     Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  White. 


Portable  Chicken  Consomme. 

Clean  a  4  pound  fowl,  retaining  every  edible  part, — head,  feet,  and  all ; 
beat  it  to  a  mash,  bones  and  all ;  simmer  very  slowly  in  3  quarts  of  water 
for  3  hours,  or  until  the  bones  fall  apart ;  strain,  squeezing  all  juice  out  of 
the  fowl ;  return  this  broth  to  the  fire  and  boil  down/a6f^  to  1  quart,  skim- 
ming often. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  it  long,  have  ready  1  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  soaked  2 
hours  in  1  cup  of  water.  Dissolve  this  in  the  broth.  Strain  at  once  through 
a  clean,  scalded  cloth.  Add  a  little  salt,  but  no  other  seasoning  until  about 
to  use  it.  Pour  into  suiall  jars,  and  when  solid  tie  over  them  a  piece  of  thin 
muslin.  Tight  covers  induce  mould.  Dilute  with  boiling  water  for  use,  or 
for  very  sick  persons  put  a  spoonful  in  a  dry  cup  set  in  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  White. 


Cream  of  Celery  S6ud. 

1  head  of  celery,  white  sauce. 

Take  a  head  of  celery,  wash  it  thoroughly,  cut  into  fine  pieces,  and  put 
it  on  to  cook  with  about  a  pint  of  water ;  allow  it  to  simmer  until  soft ; 
when  the  celery  is  cooked  thoroughly  drain  it  through  a  seive  and  add  to 
white  sauce. 

To  make  a  white  sauce  put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  double  boiler 
and  allow  it  to  melt,  mix  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
dash  of  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  ;  add  slowly  1  pint  of  milk, 
stirring  constantly  to  avoid  luiuping.  Charlotte  Jones. 


Beef  Soup. 

Boil  a  shank  of  beef  in  two  gallons  of  water  (put  into  the  pot  cold  and 
without  salt),  about  4  hours  ;  take  out  meat  into  a  chopping  bowl ;  slice 
very  thin  2  onions,  4  good  sized  potatoes,  3  turnips,  into  the  soup ;  boil 
until  all  are  tender.  Have  1  gallon  of  soup  when  done.  It  is  improved  by 
adding  noodles  just  before  taking  off. 

Chop  the  meat  that  has  been  cut  from  the  bones  while  warm,  very  fine  ; 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  add  1  teacupful  of  soup  taken  out  before 
you  put  in  the  vegetables,  pack  in  a  dish,  slice  thin  for  tea  or  lunch. 

In  order  to  have  perfect  results  use  a  gas  range.  Mrs.  S.  H.  Parsons. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range— .See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


u 


niaJJLAM)  JHhSPlTAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Loudon  &  Johnson, 

Coffees,  Jeas,  apd  Spiees, 

181  and  183  Chambers  street,  New  York. 
Specialties  :^..MMHM» 

The  Celebrated  Arago  Coffee,  a  perfect  blend. 
Lelia  Chop  Formosa  Tea,  extra  high  grade. 

Windmill  Brand  Spices,  absolutely  pure. 

FOR  SALE  BY 
MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. 

PLANS  AND  SPECIFICATIONS 

for  all  classes  of  Baildiuj^s  and  Alterations. 

Work  superintended  when  desired.     Terms  moderate. 
Correspondence  solicited. 

CHAS.  B.  VANSLYCK,  Architect,  Library  Buiiding,  Matteawan  J.Y. 


"THE  HOLLAND."  Fishkill-on-Hudson.  N.  Y. 

Is  one  of  the  finest  Hotels  on  the  sffand  old  Hudson  River. 


The  rooms  are  lar^e,  light  and  airy. 

A  beautiful  Suninier  or  Winter  home.     Everything  is  of  the  best. 

Table  unsurpassed. 

Rates,  $2.50  and  $8  00  per  day  ;    (Jomiiiercial  rate,  |2.00"per  day  ; 
Rates  per  week,  |8.00  to  $15.00. 

Wm.  Gordon,  Proprietor. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Potato  Soup. 

6  medium  sized  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  ;  cook  1  quart  of  milk  andi 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  onion  in  a  double  boiler,  add  to  potatoes  and  rub  throughi 
strainer  ;  return  to  boiler,  add  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  i  saltspoon  pepper. 

Make  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoonful  butter,  i  tablfespoonful  flour,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  celery  salt ;  add  to  soup.  Cook  5  minutes,  add  1  tablespoonfuli 
chopped  parsley.    Serve  with  crackers  or  croutons.  A.  E.  Judson. 

Ox  Tail  Soup. 

2  ox  tails,  1  large  onion, 

1  tablespoonful  beef  drippings,     4  quarts  water,  cold, 
1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  mixed  herbs, 

4  cloves,  4  pepper  corns. 

Wash  and  cut  up  the  ox  tails,  separating  them  at  the  joints.  Cut  the 
onion  fine  and  fry  it  in  the  hot  beef  drippings.  When  slightly  brown  draw 
the  onion  to  one  side  of  the  pan,  and  brown  half  of  the  ox  tails.  Put  the* 
fried  onion  and  ox  tails  in  the  soup  kettle  and  cover  with  4  quarts  of  water. 
Tie  the  cloves,  pepper  corns,  and  herbs  in  a  small  piece  of  strainer  cloth, 
and  add  them  to  the  soup.  Add  the  salt,  and  simmer  3  or  4  hours,  or  until 
the  meat  separates  from  the  bones  and  the  gristly  portions  are  perfectly 
soft.  Select  some  of  the  nicest  joints  to  serve  with  the  soup.  Skim  off  the- 
fat  and  add  more  salt  and  pepper,  if  needed.  Strain  and  serve  very  hot. 
If  vegetables  are  served  with  this  soup,  add  1  pint  of  vegetables— onions^, 
carrots,  turnips,  celery  ;  cut  them  in  small  pieces ;  add  them  to  the  liquor- 
after  straining,  and  cook  until  tender.  E.  R.  M. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS. 

''The  silvery  fish. 
Grazing  at  large  in  meadows  submarine. 
Fresh  from  the  wave,  now  cheer  our  festive  board." 


Oysters  en  Barrlere. 

1  quart  oysters,  1  tablespoonful  flour, 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 

8  c.  mashed  potatoes,  i  teaspoonful  mace, 

i  pint  cream,  1  egg, 

speck  cayenne. 
Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  flour,  butter  and  cream,  adding  the  seasoniiig,. 
Stew  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  until  plump,  then  put  them  in  the  hot 
cream  sauce  and  serve  them  immediately  within  a  rim  of  the  potato.  This 
rim  should  be  first  made  around  the  edge  of  the  platter,  then  brushed  well 
with  the  beaten  e^^  and  set  in  the  oven  to  glaze.  Emily  W.  Stanley. 

Wm.  T.  Eeynolds  &  Co.'s  "FANCY  COD"  is  Old  Fashionel  Codfish,. 

PACKED   IN   MODERN  STYLE. 


16  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Carpenter  and  Builder, 

Main   Street, 
Mattea^HTan,  N.  Y. 

J.  0.  WIXOM.  B.  TOWNSEND. 


ixom  &  ¥owiiseii€l^ 


DEALERS  I]S^- 


Groceries,  Meats,  *  Provisions, 

Fruits  in  season. 
Mair\_  Street,       Mattea-csran. 

FRANK  W.  COL  WELL, 

JEWELER, 

MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. 


WATCHES  AND  DIAMONDS. 

4 

The  place  to  get  the  Best  Goods  at  Lowest  Prices  is 

TIMMEMMA 

The  Mill  Street  Grocer, 

MATTEAWAN.   N.  Y. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  17 

Kedgeree. 

\  can  salmon,  2  tablespoonfuls  butter, 

3  cups  boiled  rice,  i  teaspoonful  salt, 

2  eggs,  \  saltspoonful  pepper, 

cayenne,  1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley. 

Put  in  a  large  saucepan  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  When  the  butter  is 
melted  add  the  rice,  stirring  with  a  silver  fork.  Break  fish  into  small  bits 
or  chop  it,  first  removing  the  skin,  bones  and  dark  parts  ;  add  this  to  the 
rice,  with  any  oil  that  may  be  with  it.  Taste,  and  add  more  seasoning  if 
necessary.  Keep  it  quite  hot.  Last,  add  the  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  serve 
at  once  ;  or  the  eggs  may  be  cooked  hard  and  chopped  fine.  A  milk  sauce 
may  be  served  with  it.  Emily  W.  Stanley. 

Fish  Balls. 

1  cup  soft  fish,  shredded,  1  saltspoonful  t^epper, 

1  e^g,  1  teaspoonful  butter, 

salt,  if  needed,  1  pint  potatoes,  cut  in  small  cubes. 

Boil  the  potatoes  and  fish  together  until  the  potatoes  are  done.  Drain 
water  off  and  let  them  steam  a  few  minutes.  Mash  thoroughly  with  a  wire 
masher.  Add  butter,  pepper  and  egg  well  beaten.  Whip  together  and  fry 
in  hot  fat.  The  fish  must  not  be  made  into  any  shape,  but  simply  dropped 
from  a  spoon  into  hot  fat.  When  taken  out  lay  on  brown  paper  to  absorb 
the  grease. 

Sauce  for  Fish  Balls. 

2  teaspoonfuls  dry  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  butter, 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  vinegar. 

Mix  together,  add  \  cupful  hot  water,  stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  thickened. 
To  be  served  cold.  Reta  Tompkins. 

Escalloped  Oysters. 

Take  1  quart  of  Oysters,  put  a  layer  of  crackers  into  the  bottom  of  a 
baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  oysters,  then  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  with 
pepper  and  a  piece  of  butter  ;  continue  until  the  dish  is  full.  Pour  over 
the  whole  a  cup  of  milk.     Bake  in  moderate  oven.  M.  L.  Rogers. 


Baked  Salmon. 

Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  when  hot ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  dry  flour,  1  pint  of  milk,  i  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  pepper, 
one  of  onion  juice  ;  add  flsh  and  let  simmer  3  minutes.  Put  a  layer  of  this 
and  one  of  bread  crumbs  in  a  dish,  the  crumbs  with  butter  on  top.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  until  brown.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Luyster. 

Accept  from  your  grocer  none  but  "Wm.  T.  Reynolds  k  Co.s  Fancy  Cod. 


IS  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

F.  C.  SHAHAN",      ~~ 

WALL  PAPER  AND    HANGINGS. 

INTERIOR  DECORATING  A   SPECIALTY. 
ESTIMATES  CHEERFULLY  GIVEN. 

MAIN  STREET,    FISHKILL  LANDING. 

Merchant  Tailor, 
No.  323  Main  Street,        Fishkill-on-Hudson. 

GEORGE  W.  YERKS.  ESTABLISHED    1841.  JOHN  J.  TAAFFE. 


George  W.  Yerks  &  Co., 

IMPORTERS  AND  JOBBERS   OF 

FANCY    GROCERIES, 

FOREIGN    FRUITS, 

HERMETICALLY    SEALED    GOODS. 

Nos.  369,  371  and  373  Broadway,         ALBANY,  N.  Y. 


COMMISIN  MERCHANTS  AND  ByJCeS, 

DEALERS  IN 

Butter,  Cheese,  Eggs,  Lard  and  Provisions. 

139   Water    Street, 
NEWBURGH,  N.  Y. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  19 


Chinese  Fish. 

1  pound  halibut  or  other  fish,  4  cloves, 

6  peppercorns,  1  stalk  celery  or 

1  spri^  parsley,  \  teaspoon ful  celery  salt, 

1  bay  leaf,  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cover  fish  with  boiling  water,  add  spices  and  seasoning  and  boil  15  min- 
utes, or  until  tender.  Flake  and  put  in  buttered  tin.  Add  sauce,  then 
mashed  potatoes,  and  bake  until  brown. 

Sauce  for  Fish. 

1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoonful  butter, 

1  tablespoonful  flour,  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Rub  butter,  flour,  and  salt  together ;  add  milk  slowly,  stirring  constant- 
ly.    Cook  until  sujooth  and  of  consistency  of  drawn  butter. 

Potatoes, 

3  large  potatoes,  mashed  and  seasoned— with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten 
stifl"  and  cut  in  the  potatoes.  Mi's.  Wm.  J.  Conlilin. 


Salmon  Loaf. 

1  can  of  salmon  ;  drain  the  oil  off  in  a  cup  and  set  aside  for  the  dressing ; 
i  cup  of  rolled  crackers  or  bread  crumbs,  3  eggs.  Mix  well ;  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mould  into  a  loaf  ;  place  in  a  greased  tin,  which  set  in  a 
tin  of  hot  water.  Cover  the  loaf  and  put  in  the  oven  for  30  minutes  or  half 
an  hour. 

Dressing, 

Oil  from  the  salmon,  ^  cup  of  milk,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter  ; 
thicken  with  flour  and  let  it  cook  until  thick  ;  add  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
throw  over  the  loaf  ;  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon.     To  be  eaten  hot. 

Miss  H.  Rumsey. 


Turbot  a  la  Creme. 

Boil  4  or  5  pounds  of  fresh  cod,  halibut  or  salmon  trout ;  pick  out  all  the 
bones  and  season  lightly  with  white  pepper.  Mix  i  pound  flour  with  1 
quart  of  milk,  add  4  or  5  tiny  sliced  onions,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  several  of 
parsley  (both  minced),  a  dash  of  nutmeg  and  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Stir  over  a  fire  until  thick,  then  add  i  pound  butter  and 
2  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Strain,  pour  a  layer  into  a  neat  baking  dish,  add 
flaked  fish  and  the  rest  of  the  sauce  alternately.  Cover  with  fine  crumbs 
and  Parmessan  cheese.     Bake  slowly  \  hour.  Mrs.  White. 

Wm.  T.  Reynolds  &  Co.'s  "FANCY  COD"  is  Old  Fashioned  Codfish 

PACKED   IN   MODERN  STYLE. 


no  HWHtANT)  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Established  17  years  in  business. 

Dry  Goods,  Notions,  LadiesV  Gents',  and  Children's  Underwear. 

MAIN  STREET,   MATTEAWAN. 


Agent  for  P.  Centemeri  KID  GLOVES.     Perfection  of  fit. 

SHERMAN  BROS., 
Choice  Groceries  &  Provisions, 

No.  264  Main  St.,  Fishkill  Landing. 

Thomas  Talbot,  Jr., 

DEALER  IN 

Oysters,  Clams,  Lobsters  and  Crabs. 


3IAIN  STREET,  FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON. 

PRESTON  GREENE, 

DRUGS, 

PATENT  MEDICINES,   PRESCRIPTIONS, 

Main  Street,  Fishkill-on-Hudson. 

A  fine  line  of  Perfumes  by  the  best  makers. 

AT 

MacQIasson's, 

I.  O.  O.  F.  BUILDING,  MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. 

^Iso,      LJr\dertaker    Qnd     En:ibalo:ier. 

RESIDENCE,  67  TELLER  AVENUE. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  21 

Philadelphia  Panned  Oysters. 

Put  the  oysters,  after  drying,  in  a  pan  with  melted  butter  (very  hot)  and 
butter  and  salt ;  while  cooking  dredge  in  a  little  flour  on  them,  and  just 
before  taking  them  out  put  a  little  cream  in,  so  as  to  make  a  sauce  or 
gravy.  It  takes  but  a  few  moments  to  cook  them.  Serve  them  hot  on  a 
dish  with  little  bits  of  toast  around,  or  what  is  better,  on  slices  of  toast. 

Mrs.  Draper. 

Daniel  Webster's  Famous  Chowder. 

6  pounds  of  sea  bass  or  cod, 

25  oysters, 

1  quart  of  boiled  potatoes,  well  mashed, 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  onions  fried  with  pork, 

\\  pounds  of  sea  biscuits,  broken, 

1  teaspoonful  of  thyme,        1  teaspoonful  of  summer  savory, 

\  a  bottle  of  mushroom  catsup, 

1  bottle  of  port  or  claret, 

\  nutmeg,  grated,  a  few  cloves,  mace  and  allspice,  a  little  black  pepper, 

a  few  slices  of  lemon. 
The  whole  put  in  a  pot,  covered  with  an  inch  of  water,  boiled  for  one 
hour,  gently  stirred.  Mrs.  Winthrop  Sargent. 


Salmon  Roll. 

1  can  of  salmon,  1  9^0^,  enough  cracker  crumbs  to  form  into  a  loaf  ;   roll 
in  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until  browned  ;  serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Joseph. 


Oysters  a  la  Poulette. 

Blanch  1  dozen  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  salt  and  remove  oysters,  add 
1  teaspoonful  butter,  juice  of  4  a  lemon,  a  gill  of  cream  (milk  answers  very 
nicely),  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Beat  up  yolk  of  one  egg  while  sauce  is 
simmering  ;  add  eg;^  and  let  it  cook  slowly  until  it  thickens.  Place  oysters 
on  a  hot  dish,  pour  sauce  over  them,  and  garnibh  with  chopped  parsley  or 
dice  of  toast.  Sarah  Aldridge. 

Dropped  Fish  Balls. 

H  cup  of  salt  codii^h.  in  small  pieces,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  1  egg,  3 
cups  of  potatoes,  pared  and  cut  in  pieces,  fi>*'<''^  P^PP^'- 

Put  potatoes  and  f\A\  into  a  sauce  pan  and  cover  with  cold  water  ;  cook 
until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  then  drain  oft"  every  drop  of  water  ;  mash  with 
a  wire  masher,  then  add  the  beaten  e^'g.  Ixitter  and  pepper.  Form  the 
mixture  in  a  spoon  and  slip  it  off  into  .snioking  fat.  Cook  until  k  golden 
brown  and  drain  on  paper.  Lillian  Stevenson. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Cxas  Range,  -  See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


DR.L.  P.STANBROUGH, 

DENTIST, 

MATTEAWAN,       NEW  YORK. 

Honest  G-oods  at  Honest  Prices. 


CLOTHING 

FOR  MEN,  BOYS, 
AND    CHILDREN. 

Harry  Hirshfield, 

Opposite  Methodist  Churcli,  MATTEAWAN. 

has  more  consii liter. s 
than  any  other 
JBread  in  totvn. 

Fresh,  Pure,  Healthy,  Palatable. 

JOHN  HEIL, 


Main  Street, 


Matte  A  WAN. 


ESTABLISHED    1887. 

EDWARD  HWENS, 
GROCERIES, 

MEATS    AND    VEGETABLES, 
BUTTER  AND  EGQS 

A  SPECIALTY. 

286  MAIN  STREET, 
FISHKILL-ON -HUDSON. 


W.  H.  WAY, 

PRACTICAL 

House  Painter, 

IN  ALL  ITS  BRANCHES. 


Residence,  Shaw  street,  Matteawan. 


Paper  Hanging  a  Specialty. 

Fislikill&  Matteawan  Water  Co. 

€.  ||.  .§beaff,  Supfrintrnbtnt. 

FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON.  N.Y. 


G.  E.  Taintor,  President. 
G.  D.  L'Huilier,  Treas.-Sec. 

Branch  Office,  II  Wall  Street  New  M, 

g.  'p.  Wander, 

DEALER   IN 

GROCERIES, 

Vegetables,  Provisions,  etc. 


MOUNTAIN  LANE, 


MATTEAWAN. 


ALL  WE  ASK 

Is  a  chance  to  tell  you  how  little  it 
will  cost  you  to  paint  your  house, 
ami  to  paint  it  well. 


Now  is  the  time  to  do  it. 

*Phone  us,  132-4. 


Strong  &  BuUis, 

PAINT  SHOP,  87  ANN  ST.,  NEWBUR6H. 


HIGHLAND  HOSFITA  L  COOK  BOOK. 


Salmon  a  la  Gerrlsese. 

2  slices  of  salmon,  3  chopped  shalots,  or  small  onions, 

a  little  parsley,  a  small  bunch  of  herbs, 

2  bay  leaves,  2  carrots,  pounded, 

mace,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,         4  tablespoonfuls  Madeira  wine, 
I  pint  of  white  stock,  thickening?  of  butter  and  floui*, 

1  teaspoonful  essence  of  anchovies,  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
cayenne  and  salt  to  taste. 
Rub  the  bottom  of  a  stew  pan  over  with  butter  and  put  in  the  shalots, 
herbs,  bay  leaves,  carrots,  mace,  and  seasoning ;  stir  them  for  ten  minutes 
over  a  clear  fire,  and  add  the  madeira  or  sherry.  Simmer  gently  for  half 
an  hour,  and  strain  through  a  seive,  over  the  fish,  which  stew  in  this  gravy. 
As  soon  as  the  fish  is  sufficiently  cooked,  put  it  into  the  stew  pan,  add  the 
stock,  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  and  put  in  the  anchovies,  lemon  juice, 
cayenne  and  salt.  Lay  the  salmon  on  a  hot  dij-h,  pour  over  it  part  of  the 
sauce,  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  dish,  .  K.  L.  Shuhert. 


POULTRY  AND  MEATS, 


"Stuff  it,  and  roast  it,  and  baste  it  with  care. 
Daintily  then  the  gravy  prepare  ; 
While  round  you  the  savory  odors  shall  tell. 
Whatever  is  worth  doing  is  worth  doing  well.' 


Stuffed   Steak. 

Pour  enough  hot  milk  or  water  to  soften  them,  over  one  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  ;  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  one  large  onion, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  pinch  of  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  "Bell's  Spiced 
Poultry  Seasoning."  Roll  up  in  the  steak,  tie  or  skewer.  Bake  one  hour. 
Do  not  forget  to  baste.  Contrihiited. 

Scrambled  Veal. 

Warm  three  cups  of  minced  veal  in-one  cu[>  of  gravy  or  good  broth,  then 
break  in  six  eggs  and  stir  till  they  are  cooked.     Add  seasoning. 

3lrs.  White. 


Ham  Balls. 

One  cup  finely  chopped  lean  ham,  one-half  cup  bread  crumbs,  two  beaten 
eggs  ;  mix  together,  shape  into  ball"*  and  fry. 

Win.  T.  Reynolds  &  Go's  "Perfect"  Tcmatoes—  Rich,  Red,  Round,  Ripe. 


A.  T.  IVORY, 


Millinery, 


213  Main  Street,  Fishkill-on-Hudson. 

The  Latest  Styles  in  Hats 

and  all  kinds  of  Gents'  Furnishings. 
Coats,   Pants,  and   Vests   to  Order. 

Opposite  N.,  D.  &  C.  R.  R.  Depot,  MATTEAWAN, 

You  will  find  a  fine  line  of  Suitings  to  make  to  measure, 
ALSO,  READY-MADE  CLOTHING, 

HATS  AND  FURNISHING  GOODS. 


intfelSess.        WILLIAM      BROWN,     M^E^f^^. 


S.  S.  MAPES, 

^Druggist,#- 

Main  Street,  Fishkill  Landing. 


1  ^Ib       ilI<PiJ«lii^ 

»7.  311 L  TON  DA  VIS, 
Main  Street,  near  Willow  Street,  Fishkill  Landing. 

Single  articles  done  with  promptness  and  by  the  latest  improved  processes. 

Satisfaction  given  in  all  work  entrusted  to  our  care. 

Articles  called  for  and  delivered,  if  desired. 

AGENCIES: 

M.  F.  Hignell,  Fishkill  Landing ;    A.  G.  Ormsbee,  Furnisher,  Matteawan. 

Doyle  Brothers' Store,  Fishkill  Village. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  25 

Veal  Loaf. 

Chop  fine  three  pounds  of  veal  and  one-half  pound  of  salt  pork  ;  add 
three  rolled  milk  crackers,  two  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  ;  season  to  taste. 
Press  into  a  loaf  and  bake  in  a  deep  pan.  Sarah  A.  B.  Aldridge. 

Calf  Liver  Cooked  Whole. 

Fry  slices  of  salt  pork  and  a  few  slices  of  onions  in  a  frying  pan  ;  lard  one 
calf  liver  with  pork  ;  brown  the  liver  on  all  sides  in  the  frying  pan,  then 
add  about  a  pint  of  stock,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  little  parsley  ;  salt  and  pep- 
per if  desired  ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  three  hours.  Add  more  stock  or 
boiling  water  when  necessary ;  thicken  and  strain  the  gravy  and  pour 
around  the  liver  before  serving.  Miss  Kittredge. 

Sanders. 

Chop  and  season  cold  mutton,  moisten  well  with  gravy,  put  into  shells 
with  a  covering  of  mashed  potato  on  top,  then  brown  in  the  oven. 

Ham  and  Potato  Eggs. 

2  cups  of  mashed  potato,  1  cup  of  minced  ham, 
1  cup  of  gravy,  2  eggs, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 

Season,  shape,  and  fry  in  a  pan.  Mrs.  White. 

Chicken  Chartreuse. 

1  cup  of  chopped  chicken,  1  eg^, 

1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,     i  teaspoonful  onion  juice, 

3  tablespoonfuls  toaiato  juice,       i  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

dash  of  pepper. 
Beat  eg^  very  lightly  and  add  tomato  juice  and  seasoning  to  it,  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  the  chicken.  Butter  mold  and  line  with  layer  of  rice  to 
depth  of  about  an  inch,  into  this  pack  the  chicken  and  cover  with  a  coat- 
ing of  rice  ;  close  mold  lightly  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Turn  out  on  a 
platter  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce, 
Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  double  boiler  and  allow  it  to  melt ;. 
stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  add  slowly  one  cup  of  tomato  juice. 

Charlotte  Jones. 

Chicken  Cheese. 

Boil  two  chickens  in  just  enough  water  to  make  tender  ;  remove  bones,, 
chop  fine,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  return  to  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled,  and  cook  until  the  liquid  is  nearly  gone  ;  put  into  a  deep 
dish,  use  heavy  weights  on  it  and  plates.     Keep  in  cool  [)lace. 

Mrs.  Parsons. 


Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range, -See  the  Gas  Company  NOW, 


tr,  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COdK  BOOK. 


Try  our  Shoes,  Hats,  and  Men's  Furnishings, 

KNAPP  BROS., 

FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON,  N.  Y. 


AUOUST  DONDERO, 

DEALER  liS'    ALL   KINDS  OF 

Foreign  and  Domestic  Fruits  and  Nuts,  and  Fine  Confectionery. 
Ice  Cream  at  wholesale  and  retail. 

Families,  Excursions  and  Picnics  supplied. 

ALSO,  DEALER  IN  ANTIQUE  FURNITURE. 

492  MAIN  STREET,  MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. 

JOHN  SCHOONMAKER  &  SON, 

94  and  96  WATER  STREET, 
NEWBURGH,    N.   Y. 

HEADQUARTERS  FOR  DRY  GOODS  OF  EVERY  DESCRIPTION. 

Manufactured  by  C.  M.  MOEEIS, 

-DEALER  IN 

Choice  Groceries,  Teas,  Coffees,  and  Spices. 

ELGIN  CREAMERY  BUTTER  A  SPECIALTY. 

Main  Street,  Opposite  Depot,  Matteawan.  N.Y.;  Market  Street,  near  Main, 

Wappingers  Palls,  N.Y.;  30  Hudson  Street,  Fishkill  Landing,  N.Y.; 

Main  Street,  Marlboro,  N.  Y. 

ly  Orders  called  for  and  delivered  free  to  any  part  of  the  town  or  country. 

J".  ID.   CXj^^I?,IC, 

MEAT  MARKET, 

Dutchess  County  Poultry,  Pigs,  and  Veal, 

A    SPECIALTY. 


Corner  Main  and  South  Streets,  Matteawan, 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  27 


Beef  Patte. 

3  pounds  lean  beef,  chopped  fine,     i  teaspoonful  pepper, 
i  teaspoonful  thyme,  1  tablespoon ful  salt, 

2  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an  eg^, 

8  tablespoon fuls  of  rolled  crackers. 
Shape  in  a  roll ;  cover  thoroughly  with  cracker  crumbs.     Put  a  cupful 
-of  water  in  a  dripping  pan,  put  two  sticks  crossways,  on  which  set  another 
pan  containing  the  patte.    The  water  should  be  replenished  as  needed  in 
order  to  allow  the  steam  to  assist  in  cooking.  Mrs.  F.  H.  B. 

Braised  Beef. 

Four  pounds  of  beef  from  the  shoulder  :  put  in  a  stone  crock,  grease  the 
crock  first :  season  the  meat  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  slice  an  onion  and 
put  in,  pour  a  can  of  tomatoes  over  it,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
five  hours.     Strain  the  liquor  and  thicken  with  flour  like  ordinary  gravy, 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Tompkins. 

Yankee  Potpie. 

Stew  a  chicken  until  tender  and  make  a  gravy  with  it  as  for  fricassee. 
Take  some  fresh  baking-powder  biscuit,  break  them  open,  and  spread  on 
Sb  platter  crust  side  down,  and  when  ready  to  serve  pour  over  them  the 
chicken  and  gravy.  Mrs.  Parsons. 

Chicken    Pudding. 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  pie  ;  arrange  in  one  layer  over  the  bottom  of 
a  large  dripping  pan.  Sift  twice,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with 
one  quart  of  flour.  Make  a  batter  with  rich  sweet  milk,  i  cup  of  melted 
butter,  3  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt.  It  should  be  a  Httle  stiffer  than  cake. 
Pour  over  the  chicken  and  bake  from  30  to  30  minutes.  Stir  into  the  liquor 
in  which  the  chicken  stewed  one  beaten  egg,  and  thicken  with  smooth 
flour.     Serve  the  pudding  on  a  platter. 

Jellied  Chicken  on  Veal. 

2  cups  of  finely  chopped  meat,  1  cup  of  strong  stock,  one-fifth  of  a  box  of 
gelatine,  soaked  in  just  enough  water  to  cover,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice.  Lay  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  on  the  bottom  of  a 
wet  mould.  Scald  the  stock,  add  meat  and  seasoning,  then  the  soaked 
gelatine.     Ladle  at  once  into  mould.,  and  set  on  ice.  Mrs.  White. 

Veal  Loaf. 

2^  pounds  chopped  raw  veal,  2  eggs, 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  1  cup  soaked  bread, 

season  with  salt,  pe[)per,  and  celery  salt. 

Make  into  a  loaf  and  bake  two  hours,  the  first  half  hour  covered  tight. 
Baste  often  with  butter  and  water;  make  a  brown  gravy  with  drippings 
l«ft  in  pan.  Mrs.  E.  Piiviun. 


^S  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


DUTCHESS    HAT  ^^^ORKS, 

Fishkill-on-Hudson,  N.  ^. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  29 

Caserole. 

1  cup  boiled  rice,  i  cup  chopped  meat, 

1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  onion, 

1  teaspoonful  parsley,  i  teaspoonful  salt, 

pepper,  hot  water  or  stock. 

Line  a  buttered  dish  with  rice,  meat  in  center  ;  cover  top,  steam  20  to  40 
minutes.     Turn  out  on  platter,  and  pour  tomato  sauce  around  it. 

Mrs.  Jaynes. 

Scotch  Egg. 

1  cup  cooked  lean  ham,  chopped,  i  teaspoonful  mustard, 

i  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  i  cup  milk, 

a  little  cayenne. 

Mix  the  mustard  with  water  or  vinegar  ;  add  one  raw  egg.  Mix  the  ham 
with  crumbs  and  milk,  add  seasoning.  Have  six  hard-boiled  eggs  shelled, 
roll  in  mixture  and  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  like  crullers  in  lard  for  two 
minutes.  Cut  in  half  lengthwise.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Serve  hot  or 
cold.  M7^s.  Judson. 

Pot  Roast  and   Gravy. 

Take  four  pounds  pot  roast,  boned  and  tied  together,  put  in  frying  pan 
and  fry  a  rich  brown  on  each  side  ;  put  in  cooking  pot  and  add  one  teacup 
of  cold  water  and  salt  to  taste  ;  cover  air  tight  and  keep  at  slow  boil,  turn- 
ing to  allow  it  to  cook  through. 

Gravy. 

Add  hot  water  to  the  drippings,  and  two  onions,  chopped  fine,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Salt  to  taste,  add  a  dash 
of  celery  salt ;  boil  ten  minutes.  L.  M.  Taylor. 

Cornish  Pasties. 

f  cup  of  suet,  i  cup  of  lard,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Roll  the  suet  into  the 
flour,  and  add  lard  and  water  as  for  pie  crust. 

3Ieat  Filling. 

Two  pounds  of  porterhouse  steak  cut  into  dice  ;  potatoes  cut  into  dice, 
and  any  other  vegetables  desired  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 
Make  into  turnovers,  lapping  the  crust  on  top,  and  leaving  a  place  in  the 
center  through  which  pour  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Close  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  for  one  hour.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Doughty. 

Beef  Stew. 

1  pound  of  beef  cut  in  small  pieces ;  season  and  stew  slowly  for  H  hours, 
then  add  o  sliced  potatoes,  with  2  sliced  onions ;  cook  all  together  until 
the  vegetables  are  done,  then  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

R.  Fhillips. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  (jas  Range,— See  the  Cias  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HChSPTTAL  COOK  BOOK. 


N.  &  T.  SMITH, 

CARTHAGE  LANDING,  N.  Y., 

DEALERS  IN 

fiCHOICE   GROCERIES,!* 

HAY,  CORN,  OATS  AND  FEED. 


ARNOLD'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR, 
C.  A.  VanDeusen's  Sugar-Cured  Hams, 


AND- 


COLUMBIA  COUNTY  SAUSAGE. 

DOOLEY  &  AYERS, 

Is  OS,  83  to  89  Main  Street ,        FishkUl-on-Hiidsoii,  N*  Y,, 

MANUFACTURERS  OF  ALL  KINDS  OF 

Granite   and    Marble    Monumental   Work 

From  all  the  best  Eastern  Granites  and  the  best  of  Marble. 


Particular  attention  given  to  Lettering  in  the  Cemeteries.  Designs  and 
estimates  cheerfully  furnished  on  application.  Polishing  highly  executed 
by  water  motor  polishing  machines.  All  work  at  low  prices  and  warrant- 
ed. Also  dealers  in  the  celebrated  Pennsylvania  Blue  Stone  for  Flagging 
and  Curbing.     Electric  cars  pass  the  door.     Residence  No.  89  Main  street. 

Bedell  &  Ainsworth, 

DEALERS  IN 

Old  Co. 's  Lehigh  and  Jermyii 


Yard  foot  of  Beekman  Street,  Fishkill  Landing. 
Telepho^ie  call,  ii7-4. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  SI 

Pate  de  Veau. 

3^  pounds  of  the  finest  part  of  a  leg  of  veal,  and  a  good  sized  slice  of  salt 
pork,  chopped  very  fine  ;  6  small  crackers,  pounded  fine  :  2  eggs,  well 
beaten  ;  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e^g ;  a  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  of 
pepper,  one  of  nutmeg  ;  work  all  together  into  form  of  a  loaf  of  bread  ;  put 
bits  of  butter  on  the  top  and  grate  or  crumbs  of  bread  ;  put  in  a  dripping 
pan  with  water  and  baste  with  the  liquor  ;  bake  2  hours. 

Do  not  cut  until  day  after  it  is  baked,  as  it  must  be  perfectly  cold  and 
firm  or  it  will  not  slice  thin.    Serve  cut  in  very  thin  slices.      Mrs.  Draper. 


Creamed  Chicken. 

Boil  a  4  or  5  pound  chicken  and  remove  the  large  bones  ;  cut  into  neat 
pieces  ;  parboil  2  pairs  sweetbreads,  (if  convenient) ;  scald  1  can  of  mush- 
rooms, and  chop  both  ;  throw  away  the  mushroom  liquor  ;  mix  over  fire,  4 
tablespoon fuls  of  butter  and  ^  of  flour,  add  1  small  grated  onion,  then  3i 
cups  scalding  cream.  Stir  until  thickened,  flavor  with  i  of  a  nutmeg,  salt, 
pepper,  and  cayenne;  add  meat,  etc ;  put  into  a  neat  dish,  cover  with  fine 
dried  crumbs,  and  dots  of  butter,  and  bake  15  minutes.  Mrs.  White. 


Bacon  with  Cream  Gravy. 

Cut  the  bacon  into  the  thinnest  of  slices  and  soak  in  milk  for  10  or  15 
minutes.  Grease  a  hot  frying  pan  with  a  little  of  the  fat,  dip  the  slices  of 
bacon  into  flour  and  fry  brown,  laying  them  on  brown  paper  to  drain ^ 
Pour  out  the  fat  in  the  pan  and  put  in  the  milk  the  bacon  has  been  soak- 
ed in  ;  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  add  when 
the  milk  is  at  the  boiling  point ;  stir  well,  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  pour  over 
the  bacon.  Mrs.  Abrain  Brett. 

Yorkshire  Pudding. 

When  roasting  a  piece  of  beef  lay  it  on  sticks  in  your  baking  pan  so  that 
the  juice  of  the  meat  will  drop  into  the  pan  below.  Three-quarters  of  an 
hour  before  the  beef  is  done  mix  the  following  pudding,  and  pour  into  the 
pan,  under  the  meat,  letting  the  drippings  continue  to  fall  upon  it :  One 
pint  of  milk,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  .  Mrs.  J.  E.  Dean. 

Spiced  Beef  to  serve  cold. 

14  lbs.  thick  flank  or  rump  beef,  i  lb.  coarse  sugar, 

1  oz.  saltpetre,  i  lb.  pounded  allspice, 

1  lb.  common  salt. 

Rub  the  sugar  well  into  the  beef  and  let  it  lie  12  hours ;  then  rub  the 
saltpetre  and  allspice  over  the  meat  and  let  it  remain  12  hours,  and  then 
rub  in  the  salt.  Turn  daily  in  the  liquor  for  a  fortnight.  Boil  or  bake  for 
four  hours.     Let  it  cool  under  a  heavy  weight.  3Irs.  Hohson. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Jl^e  I^iual  purpiture  Store 

of     Ne^vbtirgh, 

will  refer  you  to  over  100  families  they  have  sold  goocjs  to 
in  this  town.  Write  for  the  names  and  addresses  of  some  of 
them,  or  ask  your  neighbor,  or  come  over  and  see  for  yourself. 


Our  Terms  and  Prices  and  Manner  of  doing  Biz: 

FREIGHT  AND  FARE  PAID  EVERYWHERE. 

STOVES  TO  BURN.       LAMPS  DITTO. 

ALL  CARPETS  MADE,  LAID  AND  LINED  FREE. 

CASH  OR  CREDIT. 

Sl^^No  money  down.     Goods  all  delivered  before  you  pay  a  cent. 

THAT'S  THE   WAY  I   DO   IT. 


Rival  Furniture  Store, 

84  Water  Street,  NEWBURGH,  N.  Y. 

MARSHALL  HERRICK,  Prop'r,  C.  M.  NORTHRIP, 

No.  346  Main  Street,  Manager. 

Poughkeepsie,  N.Y, 

MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. 

Dentistry  in  all  its  branches  performed  skillfully  at  moderate  prices. 

Teeth  extracted — absolutely  painless. 

All  work  warranted  for  years. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  33 

Beef  Olives. 

2  pounds  rump  steak,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  minced  savory  herbs,  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  2  onions  finely  chopped.  H  ave  the  steaks  cut  rather  thin, 
brush  over  with  eg^  and  sprinkle  with  herbs,  onion,  salt  and  pepper ; 
roll  up  the  pieces  of  meat  and  skewer  or  tie  into  shape.  Put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  enough  gravy  to  cover  them,  and  stew  gently  for  2  hours. 
Take  up  the  meat,  remove  the  skewers  ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and 
butter ;  let  it  boil  up  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Mrs.  Hobson. 

Fowl  a  la  Mayonaise. 

a  cold  roast  fowl,  mayonaise  sauce, 

4  or  5  young  lettuces,  4  hard  boiled  eggs, 

a  few  water  cresses. 
Cut  the  fowl  in  neat  joints,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  piling  them  high  in 
the  centre.  Sauce  the  fowl  with  mayonaise  and  garnish  the  dish  with  the 
young  lettuce  cut  in  halves,  the  water  cresses,  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  which 
may  be  sliced  in  rings  or  laid  on  the  dish  whole,  cutting  of!  at  the  bottom 
a  piece  of  the  white  to  make  the  egg  stand.  All  kinds  of  meat  and  solid 
fish  may  be  served  a  la  mayonaise,  and  makes  an  excellent  luncheon  or 
supper  dish.  The  sauce  should  not  be  poured  over  the  fowl  until  the 
moment  of  serving. 

Chicken  and  Fowl  Patties. 

The  remains  of  cold  roast  chicken  or  fowl.  To  every  l  pound  of  chicken 
or  fowl  allow  2  ounces  of  ham,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  veal  gravy,  i  teaspoonful  minced  lemon  peel,  cayenne,  white  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  1  ounce  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour  and  pufT  paste.  Mince  very  small  the  white  meat  from  a  cold  roast 
fowl,  after  removing  all  the  skin,  weigh  it,  and  to  every  I  pound  of  meat 
allow  the  above  proportion  of  ham.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan  with  the 
remaining  ingredients,  stir  over  the  fire  for  10  or  15  minutes,  taking  care 
that  the  mixture  does  not  burn.  Roll  out  some  pufT  paste  about  I  inch  in 
thickness,  line  the  patty  pans  with  this  ;  put  in  each  a  small  piece  of  bread 
and  cover  with  another  layer  of  paste,  brush  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  about  i  hour.  When  done  cut  a  round  piece 
out  of  the  top,  and  with  a  small  spoon  take  out  the  bread  (be  particular  in 
not  breaking  the  outside  border  of  the  crust)  and  fill  the  patties  with  the 
mixture.  K.  L.  iShubert. 

Bonelines. 

Chop  cold  cooked  meat  very  fine  ;  to  every  pint  allow  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  i  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  whites  of  3  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  salt  and  pepi^er  to  taste.  Melt  the  butter  and  pour  it  over  the 
meat,  add  the  cream  or  milk  and  seasoning,  and  then  press  it  well  with  a 
potato  masher  ;  add  carefully  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Fill  custard 
cups  f  full  of  the  mixture  and  stand  in  a  pan  half  lilled  with  water  (boiling), 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done  serve  with  a  cream  sauce  or 
tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  Draper. 


34  HWHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


KDWIN  J     GlhLTES.  JAMES  H.  SCHMELZEJj 

i. 


■dwii]  (],  Sillies  &  k. 


Tea  Importers, 
Coffee  Roasters, 
Spice  Grinders. 

245,  247  9  249  U/asl7i99to9  Street,  NEW  YORK. 

p.  O.  Box  2684. 


FLEISCHMANN'S 

VEGETABLE   VT?  A  QT 
COMPRESSED    IJuiiDi 

HAS    NO    EQUAL. 


If  you  place  your  orders  for 
GROCERIES 

WITH 

HUGH  SOMERS,  Liberty  St.,  Matteawan, 

YOU   WILL  FIND    THE 

PRICES  !  aUALITY  !  AND  GOODS  ! 

AS   REPRESENTED. 

ATTENTIoivTi 

TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE  :    You  can  save  money  by  purchasing  your 

MEATS  AND  GROCERIES 

at  Budd's,  on  Liberty  Street. 

We  handle  nothing  but  first  class  goods.  Our  Canned  Goods  are  A  No.  1. 
They  have  a  large  sale.  Our  Meats  are  ail  first  cuts.  a\\  goods  prompt- 
ly delivered  to  all  parts  of  the  town.  Prices  are  lower  th<n  the  lowest. 
Bear  in  mind  the  place, 

BUDD'S,  MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Cood  Seasonings. 

When  boiling  haiii,  put  in  a  cup  of  black  molasses,  one  onion,  a  few 
•cloves  and  peppercorns,  adding  a  bunch  of  hay ;  it  seasons  finely.  Let  the 
ham  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  skin,  rub  with  brown  sugar, 
and  brown  in  a  slow  oven  for  an  hour,  basting  every  15  minutes  with  some 
of  the  stock  in  which  it  was  cooked.  Epicures  like  the  last  basting  of 
sherry. 

When  boiling  chickens  for  salad  or  pressed  loaf,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  good  salt  pork— it  is  an  excellent  seasoning.  Shred  the  chicken 
from  the  bones,  presss  into  mold  and  pour  the  water  (which  has  largely 
boiled  away)  over  it,  and  it  will  form  a  delicious  jelly  all  through  the  bits 
of  meat. 

Put  sugar  in  the  water  used  for  basting  meats  of  all  kinds ;  it  gives  a 
good  flavor,  to  veal  more  especially. 

To  give  a  tine  flavor  to  corned  beef  hash,  use  good  stock  for  moistening, 
with  a  pinch  of  salt,  sugar  and  cayenne. 

Three  tablespoon fuls  of  freshly  made  Japan  tea,  with  a  bit  of  nutmeg, 
gives  an  indispensable  flavor  to  an  apple  pie. 

Boston  baked  beans  can  be  improved  by  adding  a  cup  of  sweet  cream 
the  last  hour  of  baking. 

When  making  tomato  soup,  add  a  raw  cucumber  sliced  fine,  boil  soft  and 
strain  with  tomato.     It  gives  a  pleasant  seasoning. 

Add  a  cup  of  good  cider  vinegar  to  the  water  in  which  you  boil  fish, 
•especially  salt  water  fish. 

Make  snow  cake  with  arrow-root  flour  ;  the  flavor  is  delicious. 

Small  pickles,  olives  and  capers  minced  fine,  are  an  excellent  seasoning 
for  a  salad  dressing. 

A  fine  seasoning  for  chicken  salad  is  to  slice  an  onion  on  the  top  of  the 
prepared  chicken  and  let  it  marinate  two  hours  or  more,  adding,  at  the 
same  time,  a  few  drops  of  prepared  chevril.  Be  sure  that  every  particle  of 
the  onion  is  taken  from  the  chicken  before  adding  the  dressing. 


A  Cleansing  and  Renoa^ating  Polish.— Take  of  olive  oil  one  pound, 
of  rectified  oil  of  amber  one  pound,  spirits  of  turpentine  one  pound,  oil  of 
lavender  one  ounce,  and  tincture  of  alkanet  root  one-half  ounce.  Saturate 
a  piece  of  cotton  batting  with  this  polish,  apply  it  to  the  wood,  then,  with 
soft  and  dry  cotton  rags,  rub  well  and  wipe  off"  dry.  This  will  make  old 
furniture  in  private  dwellings,  or  that  which  has  been  shop-worn  in  ware- 
rooms,  look  as  well  as  when  first  finished.  The  articles  should  be  put  into 
a  jar  or  jug,  well  mixed,  and  afterward  kept  tightly  corked.  This  is  a  val- 
uable receipt,  and  not  generally  known. 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Mattresses.— Make  a  thick  paste  by  wetting 
starch  with  cold  water.  Spread  this  on  the  stain,  first  putting  the  mattress 
in  the  sun  ;  rub  this  off  after  an  hour  or  so,  and  if  the  ticking  is  not  clean 
try  the  process  again. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.-  See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Mrs.  M.  King's 

Ladies'*  Hairi-  Dressing + Parlors, 

Next  door  to  Peattie's  Academy  of  Music, 

FISHKILL  LANDING,  N.  Y. 

Mrs.  King  makes  a  specialty  of  treating  the  scalp  for  the  growth  of  the 
hair,  and  of  handling  natural  white  hair. 


Stephen  M.  Bull,  Newburgh,  N.  Y. 

SOLE   AGENT  FOB 

Washburn  Crosby  Co.'s  Gold  Medal  Flour. 

'       F.  E.  AVALKER, 

Photographer, 

Brown's  Block,  opp.  Howland  Lit»rai*y, 

MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. 

DOYLE  BROS., 

DEALERS  IN 


Choice  Groceries  &  Provisions, 

B'ISHKILL,  N.  V. 
Quality  counts  for  much,— we  think  for  most. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


VEGETABLES. 


"Better  is  a  dinner  of  herbs  where  love  is, 
than  a  stalled  ox  and  hatred  therewith." 

PROVERBS. 


Potato  Puff, 

2  cupfuls  cold  mashed  potatoes,  1  cupful  milk, 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  beaten  very  light, 

a  little  salt. 
Mix  the  potato  and  butter,  add  the  beaten  eggs,  then  pour  into  a  butter- 
ed dish  and  bake  till  brown  in  a  quick  oven.      Miss  Agnes  B.  Thomson. 

Delmonico  Potatoes. 

Hash  4  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  |  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  i  a  cup  of  cream,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  pepper  ;  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  5  minutes,  then  turn  into  a  bak- 
ing dish ;  sprinkle  over  it  2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  Parmesan,  same  of 
fresh  bread  crumbs  ;  put  here  and  there  a  bit  of  butter,  in  all  2  tablespoon- 
fuls, and  brown  10  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  E.  C.  Rosa. 

Potato  Puffs  a  la  Holland. 

1  cup  of  mashed  potato,  i  cup  of  milk, 

1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

1  small  spoonful  ofmelted  butter,        a  little  salt. 

Beat  well  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat  the  same  as  fritters. 

3Irs.  William  Go?' don. 


Potato  Mould  with  Cheese  Sauce. 

On  a  fire-proof  plate  make  a  smooth  mound  of  mashed  potato,  beaten 
rather  soft  with  butter  and  hot  milk.  Scoop  out  a  deep  hole  in  the  mid- 
dle, glaze  the  inside  of  the  hole  and  the  outside  of  the  mould  with  white 
of  egg,  and  set  in  the  oven.  Mix  4  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese  with  0 
of  melted  butter  (for  a  large  mound),  pour  this  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time, 
on  two  beaten  yolks,  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper.  Now  take  the 
mound  from  the  oven  and  fill  the  hollow  with  the  cheese  mixture  ;  let  it 
run  over  the  top,  sprinkle  fine  crumbs  over,  brown,  and  serve  hot. 

M7'S.  White. 

Wm.  T.  Reynolds  &  Co.'s  "Perfect"  Canned  Vegetables  are  Better 

^  AND  CHEAPER  THAN  THE  FRESH  ONES. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


The  Matteawan  Coal  Yard, 

TIORONDA  AVE.,  MATTEAWAN. 


ALL  SIZES  AND  KINDS  AT 
9   LOW   MARKET   RATE    FOR  CASH. 


Baled  Hay,  Straw,  and  Bran. 

Jai:t:iesT.  Brett. 


1800       Riverside  Soap,       1900 

for  household  use. 
The  development  of  a  century  in  business. 

Manufactured  by  Belknap  &  McCann, 

NEWBURGH,  N.  Y. 

Established  1800. 

W.  r.  WAKEMAN,  DRUGGIST, 

DEALER  IN 

Drugs,  Medicines,  Etc. 


FISHKILL  VILLAGE,  N.  Y. 


LANDSCAPE    PHOTOGRAPHY. 


"W^.  G.  Neubauer,  Ph.G., 

CARTHAGE  LANDING,  N.  Y., 

DEALER  I]\ 

DRUGS  AND   CHKMICALS, 

Sponges,  Syringes,  Soaps,  Perfumery, 
Combs  and  Brushes,   Fancy  and  Toilet  Articles. 


Physicians'  Prescriptions  Carefully  Compounded 


.A.T   ^A-Xiij   noxrias. 


Neubauer's   Indigestion   Powder, 

Sent  by  mall  for  SHc,  in  P,  O,  Stfitnps. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Scalloped  Potatoes. 

Pare  and  slice  very  thin,  stand  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  drain  and  put 
in  a  dish  with  bits  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  then  cover  them  with 
milk  and  bake  1  hour  uiider  cover,  then  brow^n  for  15  minutes. 

Mm.  Beneway. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

One  pint  dried  beans  soaked  over  night.  In  the  morning  place  over  fire 
and  let  jufet  boil.  Drain  water  ofi'  and  bring  to  a  boil  again.  Then  place 
in  bean  pot,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard 
and  a  dash  of  pepper ;  also  i  pound  of  salt  pork  very  fat.  Cover  closely 
and  put  in  a  slow  oven.  Let  it  cook  slowly  all  day,  adding  water  if  need- 
ed, but  do  not  stir.     When  done  they  should  be  a  rich  brown  color. 

Mrs.  William  E.  Knight. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

Boil  1  quart  of  pea  beans  till  skins  break  when  breathed  upon  ;  put  in 
pot.  In  a  cup  mix  i  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  about  2 
tablespoon fuls  of  molasses,  a  little  hot  water.  Put  pork  in  pot,  pour  the 
mixture  over  all,  fill  the  pot  with  boiling  water,  and  bake.  Keep  the  pot 
filled  with  boiling  water  until  the  last  hour.  Contributed. 

Green  Corn. 

An  excellent  way  to  cook  green  corn.  Take  oflf  the  outside  (the  same  as 
for  boiling),  but  put  in  steamer  and  steam  for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  George  H.  Van  de  Water. 

Baked  Green  Corn. 

Grate  12  ears  of  sweet  corn  ;  mix  With  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  a  pudding  dish 
nearly  1  hour.  Mrs.  L.  W.  IStotesbury. 

Cooked  Cucumbers. 

Pare,  clean,  and  slice  lengthwise  two  large  green  cucumbers.  Cook  in 
boiling  water  until  tender.  IServe  with  drawn  butter  or  white  sauce.  The 
cooked  cucumbers  may  remain  in  the  sau<-e  for  a  levv  min  Jies  on  the  stove 
before  serving,  Miss  Kittiedge. 

Baked  Stuffed  Cucumbers. 

Take  cucumbers  &ix  or  eight  inclus  Km.?,  cut  lengthwise  and  scoop  out 
the  inside  ;  put  the  seeds  and  ptdp  into  the  chopping  bowl  and  add  salt 
and  pepper,  tomatoes  and  bread  crumbs;  chop  fine  and  ujix  well ;  fill  each 
half  shell ;  put  plenty  of  butter  in  the  scuffing  and  on  top.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  for  an  hour.  Lulu  M.  Taylor. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  (jas  Range.  -  See  th3  Gas  Company  NOW. 


UO 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


CHARTERED  1866. 


OLD     RELIABLE. 


|\     «=VS 


I^Mft 


FISHKILL^ON^HUDSON,  N.  Y. 


Assets  $1,971,984.00.      Surplus  $203,999.00, 


Bank  open  every  day  in  the  year,  except  Sundays 
and  Legal  Holidays,  from  9:00  o'clock  a.  lu.  to  3:00 
o'clock  p.  m.,  for  general  transaction  of  business. 
Also  everj^  Monday  evening  from  7:00  to  8:00  o'clock. 


Officers : 

John  T.  Smith,  President ;  John  W.  Spaight,  Wm.  Brown,  Vice-Pres'ts ; 
Charles  E.  Martin,  Secretary  ;  John  Place,  Treasurer. 


A  Quick  Bath. 

You  won't  have  to  wait  an  exaspeiatingly 
long  time  for  one  of  our  tubs  to  fill  with 
water.  We  make  connections  that  are 
free  and  allow  the  fullest  play  of  water. 


John  Redman, 

PRACTICAL 

PLUMBER, 

GAS, 

STEAM, 

AND  HOT  WATER 

FITTER. 


North  Avenue, 


FISHKILL  LANDING. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  U 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Put  about  i  cup  of  cream  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  little  salt  and  red  pep- 
per. Cut  the  tomatoes  (good  sound  ones  and  not  too  large)  in  half  crosswise, 
and  when  the  cream  is  hot  place  them  cut  side  down  in  the  pan,  and  fry 
until  tender.  Turn  them  over  for  a  few  minutes  when  nearly  done.  Serve 
very  hot.  It  is  well  to  add  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper  to  the  tomatoes 
while  cooking.  Where  cream  is  not  available,  use  milk  and  a  small  piece 
of  butter.  Emily  Be  W.  Seaman. 


Spanish  Peas. 

Cut  i  pound  of  bacon  iuto  squares  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  Take  out 
the  bacon  ;  peel  4  large  tomatoes,  remove  seeds,  chop  fine  and  put  this  in 
the  pan  with  the  fat  from  the  bacon,  add  1  quart  of  peas  ;  cover  the  pan 
and  let  them  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Meanwhile  rub  2  spoonfuls  of  melt- 
ed butter  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  moisten  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream.  Season  the  peas  with  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice. 
When  the  peas  are  tender  add  the  flour  mixture  and  bacon.  Let  them  boil 
once  after  all  are  added.  Place  in  center  of  hot  platter  and  put  around 
them  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes  or  boiled  rice.      Mrs.  K.  S.  Tompkins. 


A  Good  Breakfast  Dish. 

To  1  pint  of  cold  mashed  potatoes  add  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
1  egg  well  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  minced  parsley  ;  mould  in  cakes,  then  dip 
in  egg  well  beaten,  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  lard. 
Have  as  many  poached  eggs  as  there  are  cakes.  Lay  an  egg  on  each  cake 
«,nd  garnish  with  parsley.     Serve  warm.  Miss  Sarah  Adriance. 


To  Clarify  Suet. — Put  the  suet  in  a  pan  with  a  teacupful  of  water  to 
each  pound  of  suet.  The  water  evaporating  through  the  fat  will  carry  off 
all  impurities  which  do  not  settle  to  the  bottom.  When  the  water  is  all 
gone  pour  the  clear  fat  into  a  dish,  when  cool  wrap  in  paper  and  keep  in 
a  cool  place.  When  frying  batter  cakes  use  to  grease  the  griddle  a  bit  of 
beef  suet  or  fat  salt  pork  tied  into  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  clean  cotton 
cloth. 

A  Good  Cure  for  Colds. — Boil  two  ounces  of  flaxseed  in  one  quart  of 
water;  strain  and  add  two  ounces  of  rock  candy,  one-half  pint  of  honey, 
the  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  mix,  and  let  all  boil  well ;  let  cool,  and  bottle. 
Dose— One  cupful  on  going  to  bed,  one-half  cupful  before  meals.  The  hot- 
ter you  drink  it  the  better. 

'T—r—. ^ ■  ^ 

Try  for  dinner  to-day  a  can  of  Raynolds'  "Perfect"  Corn. 

It  is  TENDER,  SWEET  and  CREAMY. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


\\>\l  Liy  for  the  best  makes  of 

PIANOS, 

and  everything  in  music. 


WE   SELL  THE 


Edison  Phonograph  &  Supplies. 

30  Water  St.         NEWBURGH. 


Webt)  &  Briuckerhoff, 

Insurance,  Real  Estate 


'%%^/%^%. 


Bank  Square,  Fishkill-on-Hudson,  N.Y. 
JOHN  G.  TURNBULL'S 

HOLLAND 
JAVA  AND  MOCHA 

IS  PACKED  IN  ONE  POUND  TINS. 

ALWAYS  FRESH  ROASTED  AND  ABSOLUTELY  PURE. 


SOLD  BY  ALL  FIRST  CLASS  GROCERS. 


BARNES  &,  MONELL, 

4:2  SoLitH  Water  St.,    NewbtirgH,  N.  Y. 

WHOLESALE    DEALERS    IN 

Fancy  Dairy  and  Creamery  Butter, 

Fancy  Full  Cream  Cheese, 

Strictly  Fresh  Eggs. 

^.  Housewives  make  no  mistake  by  asking  their  Grocer  for 

"B.  &  M."  "Green  Valley  Brand"  PURE  LARD. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITA  L  COOK  BOOK.  J,S 


ENTREES, 


'Isn't  this  a  pretty  dish  to  set  before  the  liing  ?" 

OLD  NURSERY  RHYME. 


Corn  Oysters. 

13  ears  of  g:reen  corn,  5  eggs, 

pepper  and  salt,  a  cup  of  flour. 

Grate  the  corn,  scrape  the  ear ;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  then 
add  1  cup  of  sifted  flour,  making  a  thin  batter ;  stir  in  the  eggs  well  beaten. 
Fry  in  lard  as  you  fry  doughnuts  and  they  w^ill  puff  up  like  oysters. 

Contributed. 

Corn  Oysters. 

Take  a  pint  of  good  canned  corn,  strain  off  the  liquid  and  rinse  once  in 
cold  water ;  to  this  add  1  well  beaten  o^^^,  a  scant  teacupful  of  flour,  \  a 
gill  of  cream,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all  well  together.  Drop  into 
boiling  fat  in  quantities  about  the  size  of  an  oyster.       Carolyn  A.  Corwin. 

Corn  Oysters. 

Split  the  grains  and  scrape  from  the  ear  ;  to  1  pint  of  corn  add  3  eggs,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sweet  cream,  2  of  fluur,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Fry  in 
hot  lard.  Mrs.  David  Davis. 

Corn  Oysters. 

Grate  the  corn  from  6  large  ears  ;  into  this  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,, 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  lastly  the  well  beaten  whites. 
Fry  the  same  as  doughnuts  in  lard.  iSarah  A  B.  Aldridge. 

Macaroni  with  Cheese. 

Throw  into  boiling  water  some  macaroni,  with  salt  according  to  quantity 
used  ;  let  it  boil  i  of  an  hour,  when  it  will  be  a  little  more  than  half  cook- 
ed ;  drain  off  the  water,  place  the  njacaroni  in  a  sauce  pan  with  milk  to 
cover,  boil  till  done.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  the  bottom  with 
plenty  of  grated  cheese,  put  in  the  macaroni,  a  little  pepper,  plenty  of 
butter,  sprinkle  on  more  cheese,  then  macaroni,  then  cheese  ;  cover  that 
with  bread  crumbs  ;  set  in  a  quick  oven  to  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Mary  L.  Rogers. 

''Perfect"  Champion  Peas  are  equal  to  those  from  your  own  garden. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


MAIN  STREET,  FISHKILL  LANDING, 

DEALER  I^' 

iHiiEi^i  Ann  o^iDEiA  iyppLiEi, 

GENTLEMEN'S  FURNISHING  GOODS, 

StationeT7,  Blank  Books,  Periodicals. 

YOUNG,  SPARROW  6c  CO., 

High  Grade  Custom  and  Ready-made 
Clothing  at  Popular  Prices. 

Gentlemen's  Furnishings,  Trunks,  Valises,  Oil  Clothing, 

Horse  Blankets. 

^V.  A.  JONES, 
Insurance  and  Mortgages. 


Fishkill-on-Hudson,  N.  Y. 


B.  F.  GREENE, 

DRUGGIST  AND  APOTHECARY, 

526  MAIN  STREET, 

MATTEAWAN. 

DEALER   IN 

Fine  Groceries,  Meats,  Etc. 


Underhill  Building,  Ferry  Street,  Fishkill  Landing, 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Cheese  Balls. 

To  1  cup  of  grated  cheese  add  |  cup  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  5  drops  of 
Worcestershire  sauce,  1  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  well  together  and  mould 
into  small  balls.  Place  the  balls  in  a  wire  basket  and  just  before  time  to 
serve  plunge  the  basket  into  boiling  lard,  cooking  until  a  delicate  brown.. 

Miss  L.  M.  Taylor. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

a  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  dry  and  fine,     2  scant  cups  of  fresh  milk, 
i  pound  of  good  rich  cheese,  3  eggs,  whipped  light, 

1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper, 

a  pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk,  beat  in  the  eggs  and  the  seasoning,  lastljr 
the  cheese  shaved  fine.  Put  into  the  dish  (or  little  fancy  dishes),  strew  dry 
crumbs  over  the  top,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  a  delicate  brown.  Serve 
at  once.  Miss  Hattie  Rumsey. 

Cheese  Fondu. 

1  pint  milk,  1  pint  stale  bread  crumbs, 

2  eggs,  1^  cups  grated  cheese, 

cooking  soda. 

Beat  the  eggs  ;  mix  with  them  the  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  and  add. 
the  milk  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Put  in  a  well  buttered 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  i  hour.  Test  as  for  baked  custard 
by  putting  in  a  knife  blade,  which  will  be  dry  if  the  dish  is  done. 

Emily  W.  Stanley. 

Rarebit. 

Put  in  a  saucepan  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  I  pound  of  grated  cheese,, 
a  saltspoonful  each  of  salt  and  dry  mustard,  i  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper, 
a  speck  of  cayenne,  and  the  yolk  of  a  raw  k^g^  beaten  with  i  cupful  of 
sweet  milk.  Stir  these  ingredients  over  the  fire  until  they  are  melted,  and. 
then  pour  them  on  toast  and  serve  at  once.  Emma  Mase  Bontecou. 


Rarebit. 

i  pound  grated  or  chipped  cheese,      |  cup  of  cream, 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,      yolks  of  2  eggs, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  cayenne, 

a  dash  of  mustard. 

Put  butter  in  pan,  when  melted  add  cheese,  stir  until  nearly  melted  and! 
then  begin  adding  cream  slowly,  then  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  seasoning  last.. 
Serve  on  toast  or  crackers.  Miss  Bertha  B.  Spaight. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.—  See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


.1,6  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

"Sorosis  Shoes,"  and  "Clueen  duality  Shoes," 

and  '  'Ralston  Health  Shoes, " 

ARE    OUR    GREAT    SPECIALTIES. 


F.  W.  Parsons,   95  Water  St.,   Newburgh, 

F.  R.  BENJAMIN, 

FISHKILL  VILLAGE. 


DEALER  IN  GROCERIES, 

DRY  GOODS,  AND  PAINTS. 

EDWARD  D.  DEPEW  &  CO., 

IMPORTERS  AND 
WHOLESALE  GROCERS. 


Teas  and  Coffees  Specialties. 

14  and  16  Harrison  St.,   NEW  YORK. 

DEALER   IN 

Wall  *  Paper,  *  Paints,  *  Oils, 

Glass,  Varnish,  Brushes,  Bronze,  Enamel,  Etc. 

Agent  for  Chilton  Paints. 
Estimates  cheerfully  given  on  Painting,  Paper  Hanging,  Decorating, 

IN    ALL    ITS    BRANCHES. 

Cor.  Main  and  Cedar  Sts.,    FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON,  N.  Y. 


HIGHLAND  HOiiPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  47 


Custard    Souffle. 

2  tablespooijfulH  of  butrer.  2  tablespo<»iifuls  of  fioa»', 

2  tablespoonftils  of  Miyar,  1  cMi[)ful  of  luilk, 

4  egi,^s. 
Let  the  luilk  come  to  a  boil  ;  be. it  the  flour  ari<l  bu  ter  together,  add  to 
theiij  the  boihng  milk  gradualh  and  cook  8  minutes  ;  stir  often.  Beat  the 
sugar  and  yolks  of  the  egy:s  tntivther.  add  to  the  cooked  mixture  and  let  it 
cool.  When  cool  beat  tlie  whites  of  the  e^i^ii  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  it  to 
the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  for  20  minutes.  Serve  im- 
mediately with  sauce.  3Irs.  J.  S  Luyster. 


Baked  Biscuit  and  Cheese. 

Soak  5  large  broken  biscuit  in  1  cupful  of  milk  a  few  minutes,  then  add 
1  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Mix  well,  put  in  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  slowly  f  of  an 
hour.  Co7itributed. 

English  Monkey  for  Chafing  Dish. 

1  cupful  of  stale  bread  crumbs,         1  cupful  of  milk, 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  ^  cupful  of  soft  mild  cheese, 

1  egg,  1  teaspoonlul  of  salt, 

a  dash  of  pepper. 
Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  milk  for  15  minutes  ;  place  the  butter  in  dish 
and  allow  it  to  melt ;   chop  the  cheese  and  add  to  melted  butter,  and  melt 
slowh',  then  add  soaked  bread  crumbs,  beaten  egg  and  seasoning.     Serve 
on, toasted  crackers  or  rounds  of  bread.  3Ii'b:  W.  A.  Jones. 


Apple  Fritters. 

JVjake  a  batter  with  1  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

1  teaspoon  fid  of  sugar, 

2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately, 

2  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  i)()wder  mixed  with  flour. 

Chop  some  good  tart  api)les,  mix  them  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Serve  with  mai)le  syrui). 


Baked  Spighetti  with   Dressing. 

One  [)int  of  spighetti  broken  in  small  pieces,  boiled  in  salted  water  until 
tender  ;  drain  off  the  water  and  place  in  an  earthen  pudding  dish,  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  cheese  and  small  bits  of  butter.  Cover  the  whole  with 
milk  and  bake  slowly  about  30  ujiinites.  Mrs.  L.  W.  ^totesMiry. 


Christian's  Flour  is  made  from  Hard  Spring  Wheat  grown  on  virgin  soil. 


4S  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

CHAS.  TAYLOR, 


DEALER  IN- 


STOVES,  RANGES,  HEATERS, 

HOUSE  FURNISHING  GOODS. 

^PLUMBING  AND  HEATING  OF  ALL  KINDS#- 

MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y, 

FRANK  Gk  RiKEiRT, 

Attorney  at  law. 

%oReaI  Estate. o#  ^Fire  Insurance.o#  ^Loans  on  Real  Estate.so^- 
Village  and  Country  property  for  sale  and  to  let. 

ODD   FELLOWS'  BUILDING, 

~       OHIIBSEE  SHOSc, 

DEALERS  IN 

FINE  GROCERIES, 

TEAS,  COFFEES  AND  SPICES. 
MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. ^ 

Peattie  Brothers, 

LIVERY,  SALE,  &  EXCHANGE   STABLES. 

Carriage  and  Sleif/Jt  Mafi^ factory, 
aiul  Carriage  and  Harness  liepository, 
ALL   KINDS   OF 

New  and  Second-hand  Carriages  and  Sleighs  constantly  on  hand. 

FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON,  N.  Y. 

ESTABLISHED    I860. 

-v^.  TBI.  cr^^cicsonsr, 

MANUFACTURER  OF  AND  DEALER  IN 

Carriages,  Sleighs,  Harness,  and 

HARD  WOOD  LUMBER. 

3IATTEAWAN,   DUTCHESS  COUNTY,  N.   Y. 

Electric  cars  from  Fishkill  Landing. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  4^ 

Mock  Terrapin. 

Mix  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  over  the  fire,  and  add  grad- 
'Ually,  1  pint  of  good,  seasoned  fc-tock.  Boil  1  minute,  then  move  to  the  side 
of  the  range.  Add  1  pound  cold  chicken  cut  into  inch  cubes,  i  teaspoonf  ul 
-of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Add  i  cupful  of  sherry  wine,  and  simmer  \ 
an  hour.  Send  to  table  with  2  or  8  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced,  on  top.  Serve 
with  sliced  lemon,  or  pickles,  Mrs.  White. 


Meat  Croquettes. 

1  bowl  of  cold  roast  beef,  chopped  fine,  2  onions,  and  3  potatoes,  made  in 
small  balls,  then  fried  in  lard.  R.  Phillips, 


Chicken  Croquettes. 

Chop  meat  very  fine,  either  chicken  or  a  mixture  of  chicken  and  veal, 
and  to  every  pint  of  meat  add  i  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  2  large  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  pars- 
ley, 1  teaspoonf  ul  of  onion  juice,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg  grated,  salt,  cayenne  and  pepper  to  taste ;  then  mould  in  oblong 
iorm  and  fry  in  swimming  hot  lard.  A.  G-.  Hupfel. 


Chicken  Croquettes. 

4  pound  of  chicken,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

4  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  i  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper, 

i  teaspoonful  of  parsley,  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice, 

1  pint  of  thick  cream,  or  milk  sauce  made  by  melting  1  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  to  which  is  added  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  cup  of 
hot  milk. 
Chop  the  chicken  very  fine,  add  the  seasoning  and  sauce  ;  separate  this 
mixture  into  as  many  parts  as  will  make  croquettes  about  2  inches  long, 
and  set  away  to  cool  until  hard  enough  to  handle  ;  shape  and  roll  first  in 
xjracker  crumbs  and  then  eg^  ;  fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown. 

Emma  Mase  Boiitecoit. 

Veal  Croquettes. 

To  1  pint  of  milk  which  comes  to  a  boil  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Hour  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful 
of  mace,  h  onion,  grated,  pejjper  and  salt  to  taste,  2  pounds  of  veal  which 
has  been  boiled  and  chopped  very  fine  ;  let  all  cook  5  minutes  ;  when  cold 
form  into  cro(iuettes,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Miss  Emma  F.  Brindierhoff. 

€ook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Edw.  Rogers, 


DEALER  IN- 


Choice  Groceries  &  Provisions, 

Fine  Teas  and  Coffees. 


ROGERS  BLOCK,  352  MAIN  STREET,  MATTEAWAN. 


C.F.Aldridge.    -mi^Pilili.yiiH  If  •meiiPiM^MIiiiliil*!  L.B.Aldndge 


Successors  to  L.  B.  Aldridge, 

Wholesale  and  Retail  dealers  in  Lumber, 

Hardware,  Sash,  Doors  and  Blinds,  Building  Paper,  etc. 

OflQce  and  Yard,  Elm  Street,  Fishkill-on-Hudson. 


^Iso  Yard   at   STORMVILLK,  N.  Y. 

Lumber  of  all  kinds.  Coal,  Feed,  and  Hardware. 

GOOD  THINGS  TO  EAt! 

You  can  always  find  a  long,  tempting  list  to  select  from  in  Bread  Stuffs 
and  Pastries  at  our  bakery.  Do  you  use  Stearns'  Bread  ?  If  not,  ask 
your  grocer  for  it.     A  trial  will  convince  you  it  is  just  the  right  thing. 

Oar  Cakes,  too,  are  up  to  the  Bread's  high  standard* 

H.  F.  Stearns,  next  to  Beacon  Engine  House,  Matteawan. 

N  TRYING  ALL  THESE  NEW  FANGLED 
DISHES  THAT  YOUR  HOUSE  GOT  ON  FIRE,. 


Suppose  I 

WOULC 

FIRE  INSURANCE 


WOULDN'T  YOU  WISH  YOU  HAD  YOUR 


PLACED   WITH    ME? 


And  if  you  had  the  faintest  idea  of  how  much  more  fair  and  square  the- 

Massachusetts  Mutual  Life  Insurance 

policies  are  than  all  others, 

you  would  not  wait  to  try  many  of  these  recipes  before  seeking 

information  from  me.     No  reflection  on  the  cooks,  however. 


REAL  ESTATE  LOANS. 

DflRrRT    UU      nnilPUTV      ^^^   ^^^'^   street,   Fishkill  Landing. 
nUDLIll     WW.    UUUunll,    Evenings  at  Residence,   Matteawan. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  51 

Rice  Croquettes. 

1  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice  ;  heat,  and  moisten  with  a  little  white  sauce, 
beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  2  tablespoonf  als  of  cheese,  salt  and  pepper  ;  make  in 
egg  shape,  roll  in  yolk  of  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry- 
in  hot  lard.  Mrs.  8.  A.  Caldwell. 


Celery  Croquettes. 

Mince  the  white  part  of  celery  and  mix  well  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
bread  crumbs.  To  a  quart  of  mixture  add  the  yolkb  of  3  eggs,  a  heaping 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper  ;  moisten  with  milk  if  necessary; 
shape  in  cones,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs.  S.  C.  Rosa. 


Creamed  Eggs. 

Cut  6  or  more  hard  boiled  eggs  lengthwise  ;  let  2  cups  of  milk,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt,  come  to  a  boil,  thicken  with  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  milk  ;  when  done  pour  over  eggs. 

Mrs.  Ahram  Brett. 


Egg  Goldenrod. 

Boil  6  eggs  20  minutes,  place  in  cold  water ;  place  1  pint  of  milk,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch,  over  fire ;  chop  whites  of  eggs  fine  and  stir  in  milk  ; 
salt ;  toast  6  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  butter,  dip  whites  over  each  slice, 
grate  the  yolks  over,  place  a  ribbon  of  fried  bacon  on  top  of  each  slice.  It 
looks  very  pretty  and  tastes  fine.  Contributed. 

Egg  Vermicelli. 

8  hard  cooked  eggs,  white  sauce,  toast.  Cook  eggs  hard  and  separate 
whites  from  yolks,  keeping  yolks  warm  until  wanted  ;  chop  whites  into 
fine  piec^-s.  To  make  white  sauce  put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a 
double  boiler  and  allow  it  to  melt ;  mix  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  then 
add  slowly  a  cnp  of  milk,  stirring  constantly  to  avoid  lumping.  After  the 
sauce  has  thickened,  stir  in  the  whites  and  pour  over  thin  slices  of  toast, 
arranged  on  a  warm  platter  ;  now  take  the  yolks  and  squeeze  through  a 
potato  ricer  over  top  of  dish  ;  garnish  with  parsley.  Charlotte  Jones. 


Puff  Omelet. 

Heat  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  G  eggs,  mix  with  a  small  teacupful  of  milk 
and  a  little  salt ;  beat  together  a  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour 
until  smooth  ;  add  the  mixture  to  the  eggs  and  beat  all  well  together  ; 
pour  into  hot  buttered  tins  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  the  well 
beaten  whites  ;  when  stiff  remove  carefully  to  a  dish.     Sarah  Aldridge. 

Christian's  Flour  is  made  from  Hard  Spring  Wheat  grown  on  virgin  soil, 


52  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Real  Estate  and  General  Auctioneer, 

AND  dp:aler  in 

M©RSES,  •  WAGiDNS,  *  HAiWEiS,*  ITi. 

Mead's  Auction  Rooms  and  Fishkill  Horse  Exchange, 

388  to  339  Main  St.,  Fishkill  Landing,  N.  Y. 
J.   Van  Voorhls.  M.  V.  Mackay. 

VanVoorhis  &  Co., 

Wholesale  and  Retail  dealers  in 
Bank  Square,  FishkiU-on-Hudson. 


2taple+aii(l4-FaiiGy*Dry*(5oO(l8, 

66  Water  Street,  Newburgh. 

C.  W.  Sparks,  Jr., 

Hardware  and  Agricultural  Implements, 

Stoves,  Ranges,  and  Furnaces, 
Steam  and  Hot  Water  Heaters. 

PLUMBING  AND  JOBBING   PROMPTLY  ATTENDED  TO. 

3Iain  Street ^  Fishkill  Village,  J>f.  Y., 

DEALER  IN— — 

Drugs,  Medicines,  Chemicals,  Fine  Toilet  Soaps,  Brushes,  Combs,  etc. 

Perfumery  and  Fancy  Toilet  Articles  in  great  variety. 

Physicians'  Prescriptions  accurately  compounded. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITA  L  COOK  BOOK.  53 


BREAD,  BISCUIT,  GEMS  AND  ROLLS. 

It  was  a,  coiiiuion  sayinj?  aniono^  the  puritans  : 
"Brown  bread  and  the  gospel  is  ^ood  fare." 

Bread. 

2  cups  of  warm  milk  or  water,       3  teaspoonfuls  salt, 
^  yeast  cake,  H  tablespoonfuls  suyrar, 

1  tablespoonful  butter,  flour. 

Put  the  water  or  milk,  sugrarand  butter  in  a  bowl,  add  the  yeast  dissolved 
in  a  little  warm  w^ater,  and  then  the  flour  gradually.  Mix  with  a  knife  or 
spoon.  When  stiff  enough  to  handle  turn  it  out  on  a  floured  board  and 
knead  till  soft  and  elastic.  Put  it  back  in  the  bowl,  cover  tightly,  and  let 
it  rise  in  a  warm  place  until  double  its  bulk  ;  then  divide  into  loaves  or 
shape  into  biscuits.  Allow  these  to  rise  again  in  the  pan  in  which  they 
are  to  be  baked,  till  double  in  bulk.  Bake  loaves  about  1  hour  in  a  hot 
oven  ;  biscuits  from  10  to  20  minutes,  in  a  hotter  oven  than  is  required  for 
bread.     Sufficient  for  two  loaves.  Carrie  Jones. 


Gluten  Bread  for  General  Use. 

Dissolve  1  cake  of  Fleischmann  &  Co.'s  compressed  yeast  in  a  small  cup- 
ful of  lukewarm  (not  hot)  water.  Pour  i  pint  of  lukewarm  milk  into  1  pint 
of  lukewarm  water,  and  to  this  mixture  add  1  tablespoonful  of  shortening 
—butter  or  lard.  Into  this  pour  the  water  containing  the  yeast,  and  add 
sufficient  gluten  flour  to  make  a  stifT  batter.  Set  to  rise,  and,  when  light, 
add  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  according  to  taste,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  enough  gluten  flour  to  make  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  Knead 
well,  make  into  two  loaves,  put  into  pans,  and  set  them  to  rise.  When  well 
risen,  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  about  40  minutes. 

Steamed  Graham   Bread. 

i  a  cup  of  mola!«ses,  \  a  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  cups  of  graham  flour, 

1  cup  of  wheat  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

\  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Steam  until  light,  then  put  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

Mis.  Leaiidet  Alsdorf. 

Boston   Brown  Bread. 

1  bowl  of  Indian  meal,  1  boul  of  rye  meal, 

1  bowl  of  sour  milk,  ]  large  cup  of  uiolasses, 

1  teasi)Oonful  of  !«o(la,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

Steam  four  hours.  Mm.  Morton. 

CHRISTIAN'S  SUPLRLATIVE  FLOUR  wiil  make  more  loaves,  and  better  bread, 
than  any  other  flour  on  the  market. 


51,  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

19  order  to  l?aue   perfCCt   I^eSUltS 

with  the  valuable  recipes  contained  in  this  book,  it  is  necessary  to  have 

PURE  INGREDIENTS: 

Absolutely  Pure  Spices,  Finest  Fruit  Extracts, 
Gelatines,  Chocolates  and  Cocoas  ;  and  the 
Famous  Worcester  Salt, 


YOU  CAN  FIND  THEM  AT 


S.  H.  Parsons'  Grocery, 

MAIN  STREET,  MATTEAWAN. 

James  Forrestal, 

Carpenter,  Builder,  Contractor. 

All  work  done  in  a  substantial  and  first-class  manner. 


Shop  and  Mesidence,  FishMll  Ave.,  3Iatteatvan. 


Roses,    Carnations,    Smilax, 

AT   THE 

mill  Oanipri 

ALL  FLOWERS  IN  THEIR  SEASON. 


Hyacinths,    Palms  and  Ferns,    Callas. 

Decorations  done  in  style.     Bouquets— any  size. 
Cor.  Ferry  and  Division  Sts.      Telephone.         FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON, 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  55. 

Brown  Bread. 

2  cups  of  Indian  meal,  bolted,        1  cup  of  rye  meal,  sifted, 
1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  i  cup  of  molasses, 

J  teaspoonful  soda  in  molasses,     a  little  salt. 

Steam  four  hours  or  more.  Contributed. 


Brown  Bread. 

2  cups  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  molasses, 

add  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
salt,  1  cup  of  corn  meal, 

1  cup  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  rye  flour. 

Add  enough  more  graham  and  rye  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  like  a 
stiff  cake  dough.     Steam  four  hours.     Brown  in  the  oven. 

Miss  Cotheal. 


Graham   Bread. 

1  pint  graham  flour,  1  pint  wheat  flour, 

1  pint  warm  water,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 

i  cup  molasses,  J  yeast  cake. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  ;  dissolve  yeast  in  the  warm  water  ;  put  the  molasses 
in  the  warm  water  and  mix  with  dry  ingredients  ;  beat  20  minutes.  Set  to 
rise  until  double  its  bulk  ;  beat  again  5  minutes,  and  put  in  pans.  Let  it 
rise  again  until  doubled.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  from  1  hour  to  H  hours. 

Carrie  Jones. 

Curled  Biscuit. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  quart  of  sifted  flour, 
a  little  more  than  a  tablespoonful  of  Royal  baking  powder  ;  mix  with  milk 
and  water  until  thick  enough  to  roll  without  sticking  to  the  board  ;  roll 
out  about  half  an  inch  thick  and  then  cover  with  a  thin  coating  of  melted 
butter,  and  then  sprinkle  over  with  granulated  sugar ;  roll  the  paste  up 
like  a  jelly  cake  roll,  and  cut  down  with  a  knife  in  slices  about  half  an  inch 
thick  ;  bake  about  15  minutes.     Serve  at  once  and  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Draper. 

Graham  Biscuit. 

3  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  wheat  flour, 

\  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt, 

2  large  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Contributed. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Q-as  Range.  -  See  the  Qas  Company  NOW. 


>'(!  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


WHEN  IN  NEED 
GO  TO 


BYRNES, 


FOR  MEATS,  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 


JEHEAPIif  STOJE  Ifi  T®WI!, 

Remember  the  Number,     284"  ^^^^^  ^^■■>  Fisbkill  Landinj^. 

CLEAN,  HONEST,  RELIABLE  GOODS 

ARE  WHAT  THE  PEOPLE  WANT, 
AND  WHAT  THEY  FIND  AT 

IE.  &  HI.  nVE-izLllenzL^s. 

Dry  Goods  and  Notions.         Ladies'  and  Gentlemen's  Furnishings. 

Our  prices  are  always  the  lowest  for  articles  of  this  class, 
478  3Iain  Street ,  3Iatteatvaii, 

Opposite  Howland  Library. 

Incontestible  Life  Insurance. 

There  is  but  One  Company  that  issues  this  form  of  policy. 

ARE   YOU   INTERESTED  ? 

If  not,  think  it  over  and  you  will  be. 


I.  B.  Cammack,  District  Agent,  New  York  Life  Insurance  Company,, 

FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON,  N.  Y, 

THE    FIRM  THAT   GIVES 

Just  IVIore  I^rice  ^V^alues 

THAN    ELSEWHERE. 

Bargains  in  Glotliing,  Men's  Fixings,  Hats  and  Slioes. 

Do  you  want  to  see  what  cash  and  correct  buying  will  do  for  you  ? 
Then  call  and  see  our  stock  before  buying  elsewhere. 

J.  &  M.  PEAVY,  Main  Street,  MATTEAWAN. 

1?rac6cal  ®n<leriaKer  &  ^Eml>almer, 

Ormsbee  Building,  Main  Street,  Matteawan. 


Night  Bell  at  office  door.    Residence  in  same  building;. 
OalJs  day  or  night  personally  attended  to. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  57- 

Biscuit. 

4  even  cups  of  flour,  sifted  three  times,  with  2  even  teaspoonfuls  of  cream- 
tartar,  1  even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  then  work  in  very 
lightly,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  2  teacups  of  fresh  milk.       L.  E.  B. 

Biscuit. 

1  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

I  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

i  cup  of  milk. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  rub  in  the  butter,  stir  in  the  milk  ;  mix  as 
soft  as  can  be  handled  and  rolled  out  on  a  board,  half  an  inch  thick.  Bake 
in  a  Gas  Oven  15  minutes.  Mrs.  Parsons. 

Raised   Biscuit. 

Mix  at  night  H  pounds  of  flour  with  1  quart  of  water,  and  i  yeast  cake  % 
in  the  morning  add  2  pounds  of  flour,  4  pound  of  lard,  i  teaspoonful  of 
saleratus,  and  some  salt ;  mix  well  together,  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place 
till  light ;    cut  out,  and  let  them  rise  in  the  pans  till  light  enough  to  bake. 

Mrs.  David  Davis. 

Dinner  Rolls. 

3  cups  of  sweet  milk,  1  yeast  cake,  flour  to  make  a  butter,  not  too  thick. 
Set  this  as  a  sponge  at  noon.  In  the  evening  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of 
melted  butter,  i  nutmeg  (grated),  1  saltspoonful  of  salt,  flour  to  roll  out 
like  biscuit ;  knead  well.  Set  till  morning  and  then  roll  out  till  about  i 
inch  thick  and  cut  into  strips  about  1^  inches  wide,  and  as  long  as  you  wish 
the  rolls  to  be,  (five  inches  is  a  pretty  length,  but  make  longer  or  shorter 
as  you  choose).  Place  these  rolls  in  pans  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each 
other,  and  let  them  rise  till  quite  light.  Bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven— not 
too  brown.  M7's.  Ella  Brunclage. 

Dinner  Rolls. 

1  quart  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  f  of  a  pint  of  milk. 

Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  powder,  rub  in  the  butter  and  add 
the  milk,  mixing  into  a  rather  stiff  dough.  Flour  the  board  and  turn  out 
the  dough,  giving  it  one  or  two  quick,  vigorous  kneadings  to  complete  its 
smoothness.  Roll  out  i  of  an  inch  thick  ;  cut  into  strips  about  H  inches 
wide,  and  as  long  as  you  care  to  have  the  rolls  ;  roll  the  strips  the  long  way 
into  a  snug  roll,  and  place  in  pan  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each  other. 
Bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven  from  8  to  10  minutes.  Do  not  bake  Tot)  dark  a 
brown.  When  you  remove  from  oven  cover  closely  for  a  while,  till  ready 
to  serve.  Mrs.  Ella  BinndagH. 

CHRISTIAN'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR  will  make  ujore  loaves*,  and  better  bread, 
than  any  other  flour  on  the  market. 


-5S 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


DRY  GOODS 


THE  BEST  PLACE  TO  BUY  THEM 

IS    AT 

:S.G.&  J.  T.SMITH'S. 


LARGE   3  STORES. 

ALL  DEPARTMENTS  FULLY  STOCKED  WITH  SEASONABLE 
GOODS.  AN  ELEGANT  LINE  OF  JACKETS,  CAPES,  TAILOR- 
MADE  SUITS,  SEPARATE  SKIRTS  AND  SHIRT  WAISTS. 


FISHKILL-ON-HUDSON, 

MATTEAWAN,  AND 

WAPPINGERS  FALLS. 


J.  M.  NEAL  &  CO., 

DEALERS  IN 

FRESH  AND  SALT  FISH 

Oysters,  Clams,  etc. 


River  Fish  a  Specialty. 
Main  Street,  Fishkill  Landing. 

WHEN  YOU  WANT 

ICE  CREAM  or  CONFECTIONERY 

For  Weddings, 
Parties, 
Picnics, 
or  any  other  social  gathering, 

CALL  ON 

M.  A.  MOSS, 

Maiteawan.  and  learn  his  prices. 


"HOLLAND  STABLES," 

Fishkill  Landing. 


I  am  still  doing  business  at  the  same 
old  stand.  All  calls  promptly  at- 
tended to,  day  or  night.  When  in 
need  of  any  thing  in  my  line  call 
and  see  me,  and  1  will  please  you. 


A.  M.  Anderson. 
S.  H.  Parsons, 

Crockery,  Glassware, 

Etc.,  Etc. 


nyc  .A.  T  O?  E  .A-^W^-A.  IST. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  59 

Muffins. 

2  eggs,  butter  |  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  i  cup  oi 
sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  ;   beat  thoroughly. 

Mi'S.  P.  H.  Voshurgh. 

Muffins. 

i  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  cup  of  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  hot  water,  flour  to  make  as  thick  as  cup  cake.  (Can  use  baking 
powder).  Miss  E.  Barnard. 

Breakfast  Muffins. 

1  pint  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  egg,  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  batter  like  sponge 
cake,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Add  the  butter  last.  Bake  in 
muffin  rings.  This  will  make  12  muffins.  The  egg  should  be  well  beaten. 
Bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Miss  Adriance. 


Saratoga  Graham  Muffins. 

3  cups  of  sour  milk,  i  cup  of  molasses, 

3  small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  a  little  salt. 

Put  the  molasses  in  the  sour  milk,  and  add  the  soda  and  salt ;  mix  in  1 
quart  of  graham  flour,  and  bake  in  muffin  rings.      Mrs.  William  Brown. 

Rusks. 

f  of  a  pound  of  flour,  3  ounces  of  butter, 

2  or  3  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  sifted  sugar, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  little  milk,  to  form  a  stiff  paste. 

Roll  out  i  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  bake,  split  and  return  to  oven 
to  brown  the  split  side.  Mrs.  Hobson. 

French  Rolls. 

1  pint  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  ^  a  yeast  cake, 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  flour  to  thicken. 

Place  the  butter  and  sugar  in  the  milk  and  warm  until  the  butter  is 
melted.  Add  the  salt,  and  when  lukewarm  add  the  yeast.  Dis!?olve  thor- 
oughly, then  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  well— 10  min- 
utes is  none  too  long.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise— 3  or  4  hours  will  be  re- 
quired. Again  knead  down  and  form  into  small  rolls,  laying  them  into 
oiled  pans.     Let  rise  1  hour,  then  bake.  Grace  M.  Dayton. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.  -  See  the  G-as  Company  NOW. 


tiO 


HIGHLAND  HOkSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


•jpiiicC 


T  -  ^N.Y..^ 


Long  Distance  TelepJione  call,  52-5, 


A.  V.  ROCKWELL, 

SILK    THROWSTER, 


ALL  SIZES  TRAM.        ALL  SIZES  ORGANZINE. 

CREPE  de  CHINE  TWIST. 

ALSO,  ALL  TWIST  SPECIALTIES. 


CORRESPONDENCE  SOLICITED. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  d 

Coffee  Bread  or  Breakfast  Gems. 

1  quart  of  flour,  3  teaspoon fuls  of  baking  powder, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  \  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  small  tablesp'nful  mi?lted  butter.   1  egg,      2  cups  of  milk. 

Bake  in  gem  pans  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  BuMond. 

Gems. 

2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 

a  little  Salt,  2  cups  of  milk, 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,       2  cups  of  flour. 

Bake  in  gem  pans  i  hour.  Mrs.  A.  V.  Rockwell. 

Wheat  Gems. 

2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  1  cup 
of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  and  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  immediately  in  well  greased  gem  pans,  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Jaycox. 

Simple  Wheat  Gems. 

2i  cups  of  flour,  4  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  level  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  If  cups  of  milk.  Bake  about  15  minutes  in  gem  pans,  in  mod- 
erate oven.  Bertha  D.  Spaight. 

Graham  Gems. 

1  pint  of  flour,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  e^g:,  a  very  little  baking  powder,  a  very 
hot  oven.  Bake  in  gem  pans.  With  fine  graham  flour  u><e  all  graham,  if 
not,  use  part  wheat.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Spaight. 

Rice  Gems. 

1  cup  of  rice  flakes,  break  in  fine  pieces,  I  tablespoonful  salt,  \\  cups  of 
milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  2^  cups  of  flour,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  baking  powder.      Bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Corn  Gems. 

2  cups  of  corn  lueal,  2  cups  of  flour, 

2  cups  of  milk.  2  eggs, 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  \  cup  of  butter, 

\  cup  of  sugar.  Bake  in  gem  pans. 

.Graham  Gems. 

2  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  of  wheat,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  3 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  egg;  add  milk 
enough  to  make  a  stiff"  batter.     Bake  in  hot  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  P.  11.   Voshiir<]h. 


V2  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Graham  Gems. 

2  eg^s,  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon ful  of  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  cupfuls  of  milk, 

2  cupfuls  of  graham  flour. 

Mix  in  order  ;  beat  hard  ;  heat  gem  pans  very  hot ;  pour  in  the  mixture 
and  bake  in  a  pretty  hot  oven  for  i  an  hour.     Makes  1  dozen. 

Mrs.  Thomas  S.  Newlin. 

Corn  Bread. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  egg,  well  creamed, 
li  cups  of  milk,  f  Indian  meal,  2  cups  unsifted  flour,  2  even  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Brett. 

Batter   Bread. 

1  cupful  of  hot  hominy,  21  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

2  cupfuls  of  milk,  1  cupful  of  white  njeal, 

2  eggs,  beaten,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Put  all  together,  beat  well,  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 

Lillian  M.  Stevenson. 


Puffet. 

1  pint  of  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 

4  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

3  cupfuls  of  flour,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Allison. 


Bannock. 

1  quart  of  Indian  meal  and  a  little  salt,  scalded  with  sufficient  water  to 
make  it  soft,  but  not  as  soft  as  batter ;  add  immediately,  stirring  quickly, 
8  beaten  eggs,  then  1  quart  of  cold  milk  and  1  teacupful  of  sugar.  Bake 
brown  in  a  large  shallow  pan.  Mrs.  Bearing. 

Laplanders. 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  5  eggs  separately  ;  mix  them,  add  1  pint  of  thin 
cream,  and  i  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  stir  all  into  1  pint  of  sifted  flour  ;  beat 
well.  Pour  into  buttered  earthen  cups  and  bake  f  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  Howell  White. 

Rye  Shells.^ 

I  of  a  cupful  of  rye  meal,  i  of  a  cupful  of  wheat  flour,  1  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  milk,  2  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
Add  the  whites  last.    Bake  in  iron  or  stone  cups  30  to  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  Howell  White. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  63 

General  Washington  Breakfast  Cake. 

Take  2  pounds  of  flour,  1  quart  of  milk,  and  1  ounce  of  butter,  and  heat 
together.  When  it  is  lukewarm  add  a  pennyworth  of  yeast,  3  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Place  it  in  a  pan  over  night,  and  bake  it  in  the  morning 
in  a  quick  oven  for  f  of  an  hour.  Mrs.  Winthrop  Sargent. 

Rice  Pone. 

To  1  pint  of  milk  and  1  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice  add  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
7  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal,  1  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  a  little  salt». 
Pour  mixture  into  hot,  greased  pan,  and  bake  i  hour.     Sarah  Aldridge. 

Popovers. 

3  eggs,  3  cupfuls  of  flour, 

3  cupfuls  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Bake  in  iron  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven.  L.  K.  B. 

Popovers. 

f  of  a  cup  of  flour,         I  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
1  cup  of  milk,  1  e^g. 

Sift  the  flour  and  salt,  and  then  mix  in  by  degrees  the  e^g,  beaten  very 
light ;  when  free  from  lumps  beat  until  it  bubbles.  Pour  into  welti 
greased  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  20  minutes. 

Emma  Mase  Bontecou, 

Nut  Sticks. 

li  cupsful  of  whole  wheat  flour,  i  cupful  of  ground  nuts,  or  any  other 
may  be  used  ;  grind  them  in  a  coffee  mill ;  i  cupful  of  water.  Knead  well, 
roll  tjiin,  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Miss  E.  VanRensselaer. 

Sweet  German  Bread. 
1  pint  of  bread  sponge,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  i  cupful  brown 
sugar,  1  eg^.  Beat  all  very  thoroughly  into  the  batter,  then  add  sufficient 
flour  071^2/ to  handle.  Flatten  out  with  the  hand  to  fit  a  small  dripping 
pan.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  2  hours,  then  brush  over  the  top  with 
sweet  cream  or  the  white  of  an  egg.  Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and 
cinnamon.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  i  an  hour.  K  R.  W.  V. 


Asparagus  Toast. 

Cut  fine  about  12  stalks  of  cooked  asparagus,  rejecting  all  the  tough  part. 
Mix  over  fire  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  of  cream,  1  of  gravy,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  and  3  beaten  eggs.  Throw  in  the  asparagus,  stir  a  minute  or  two,, 
serve  on  toast.    Spinach  may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Mrs.  White. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Strain  and  scald  1  pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  highly  seasoned  ;  add  1  cup 
of  hot  milk,  thickened  with  a  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot,  a  little  butter,  and 
stir  a  minute.     Serve  on  toast.  3Irs.  White. 


■H  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


SALADS  AND  SAUCES. 

To  make  a  perfect  salad  there  should  be  a  spendthrift  for  oil, 
a  miser  for  vinegar,  a  wise  man  for  salt,  and  a  madcap  to  stir 
the  ingredients  up  and  mix  them  well  together. 

Spanish  Proverb. 


Chicken  Salad. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten,  4  teaspoonful  salt, 

^  teaspoonful  pepper,  scant  teaspoonful  mustard, 

i  cup  vinegar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  nut, 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Boil  as  a  custard,  cool,  and  just  before  using  add  i  cup  of  sweet  cream  or 
milk.  Pour  over  1  cup  of  finely  chopped  chicken  and  1  cup  of  chopped 
<ielery.  Grace  M.  Dayton. 

Potato  Salad. 

1  quart  of  potatoes,  2  tablespoonf  uls  grated  onion, 

2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  parsley,     4  tablespoonfuls  chopped  beets, 

moisten  with  sardine  dressing. 
Slice  the  potatoes  while  hot,  mix  the  other  vegetables  with  them,  add 
the  dressing,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  2  hours  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Ifellor. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

i  a  cabbage,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 

6  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter, 

1  teacupful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  mustard, 

i  teacupful  vinegar. 
Cut  the  cabbage  in  two  parts  and  wash  it  well.  Remove  the  wilted  or 
tough  leaves,  cut  out  the  core  or  "stump,"  and  chop  it  fine  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Boil  the  eggs  hard,  chop  five  of  them  very  fine;  place  the  cabbage 
in  a  salad  bowl,  add  the  chopped  eggs,  and  toss  and  mix  lightly  together. 
Mix  the  sugar,  salt,  mustard,  butter,  and  vinegar  well  together,  and  pour 
this  liquid  over  the  cabbage  and  eggs.  Toss  again  lightly  with  a  fork  held 
in  each  hand  ;  arrange  in  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  the  remaining  egg  cut 
in  slices.  M7's.  Mellor. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

3  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  mustard. 
Beat  the  above  together,  then  add  i  cup  sweet  milk,  stir,  and  add  i  cup 
of  vinegar,  stir,  set  in  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  consistency 
of  cream.    When  cold  add  the  finely  chopped  cabbage.     This  is  enough 
for  a  medium  sized  head  of  cabbage.  Mrs.  W.  S.  Colwell. 

^'Perfect"  Champion  Peas  are  equal  to  those  from  your  own  garden. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  65 

Lobster  Salad. 

1  can  of  lobster  chopped  fine,  3  or  4  stalks  of  celery  or  a  few  lettuce  leaves 
chopped  ;  add  4  e^gs  boiled  20  minutes,  chop  the  whites  and  mix  with  the 
lobster  ;  make  a  dressing  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  mashed  fine  ;  i  cupful 
of  vinegar,  I  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  melted.  Mix  all  together,  and  stir  thoroughly  into  the  lobster,  then 
smooth  into  shape  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  Mrs.  Garret  Storm. 


Fruit  Salad. 

Slice  oranges,  bananas  and  pineapple,  either  fresh  or  canned.  Arrange 
oranges  an  inch  thick,  then  a  thin  layer  of  bananas,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
then  a  thick  layer  of  pineapple,  sugared.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  thick 
layer  of  grated  cocoanut.  Mrs.  B.  E.  W.  Conklin. 

Delicious  Salad. 

Chop  a  tablespoonf ul  each  of  parsley  and  olives,  add  to  a  pint  of  chopped 
celery,  and  serve  with  French  dressing.  Mrs.  S.  H.  Parsons. 

A  Salad  for  Sunday  Night  Tea. 

A  layer  of  ripe  tomatoes,  sliced  rather  thick  ;  a  layer  of  pickled  cucum- 
bers, sliced  very  thin  ;  a  layer  of  small  german  potatoes,  cut  thin  ;  a  layer 
of  young  beets  ;  a  layer  of  boiled  lima  beans,  giving  a  delicate  green  hue  ; 
then  in  the  middle  a  layer  of  very  small  young  onions,  sliced  thin  ;  repeat 
after  that  to  the  top  of  the  salad  bowl,  which  should  be  of  cut  or  plain 
glass.  Ornament  with  sprigs  of  celery,  lettuce,  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs 
and  finely  chopped  chives,  with  an  olive  here  and  there.  The  ingredients 
for  the  salad  are  carefully  laid  in  the  bowl,  and  a  well-mixed  French  dress- 
ing poured  over  them  four  or  five  hours  before  the  time  for  serving.  The 
decorations  for  the  top  are  put  on  just  before  sending  to  the  table,  and  the 
salad  packed  in  ice  until  used.  Contributed. 

Salad  Dressing. 

1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  butter, 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 

i  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  beaten  eg^, 

a  little  pepper,  \  cupful  of  boiling  vinegar. 

Mix  all  together  and  stir  until  it  is  creaniy.  V.  B. 

French  Mustard  Dressing. 

Heat  1  ^^\i;  well  ;  add  2  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  of  flour,  1  cui)ful  (small)  of  vinegar.     Cook  until  thick. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  iSpai(jht. 


Cook  Everything  on  a  &as  Hange.—  See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


66  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Salad  Dressing  of  Milk. 

8  egj?s,  1  tablespoonf  ul  of  sugar, 

1  tablespoonful  of  oil,  1  tablespoonf  ul  of  salt, 

f  tablespoonful  of  mustard.  1  cupful  of  uiilk, 

1  cupful  of  vinegar. 

This  recipe  ujakes  nearly  three  cupfuls  of  dressing,  and  one-third  of  it 
will  be  ample  for  a  salad  intended  for  six  persons.  If  the  entire  quantity 
is  made,  boitleil  tightly,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place,  it  will  keep  for  two 
weeks.  Place  the  oil,  salt,  mustard  and  sugar  in  a  bowl,  and  stir  until 
perfectly  smooth.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  and  add  them,  stirring  thoroughly  ; 
then  gradually  put  in  the  vinegar,  and  lastly  the  milk.  Place  the  bowl  in 
a  basin  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  the  dressing  until  it  is  like  thick  cream, 
stirring  all  the  time.  The  cooking  usually  takes  ten  minutes,  but  if  the 
bowl  is  thick,  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes  will  be  required.  Use  when 
cold.  Mrs.  Thomas  Mellor. 


Cream  Dressing  for  Cabbage  Salad.    (Chopped.) 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour  ;  rub  smooth  in  sauce 
pan,  then  add  1  cupful  of  milk  ;  when  the  milk  is  boiling  add  2  eggs,  1 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  tablespoonf  ul  of  mustard,  2  desertspoonf  uls  of  sugar, 
a  very  little  cayenne  pepper.  Add  last  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  and  cook  until 
like  a  soft  custard.     This  dressing  also  for  potato  salad,  without  sugar. 

Miss  S.  T.  Hills. 


Salad  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  add  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  paste  ;  beat  8  eggs  into  this  and 
beat  thoroughly  ;  add  1  cupful  of  cream  (or  ^  cupful  cream  with  milk  and 
1  Qgg),  I  cupful  of  vinegar  according  to  strength.  Beat  all  thoroughly  and 
put  in  bowl  on  the  teakettle.  Done  in  f  of  an  hour  when  thicker  than  a 
custard.  Miss  Mapes. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  for  Scallop  or  Chicken  Salad. 

The  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  salt- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  i  pint  of  the  best  olive  oil,  ice  cold,  the  juice 
of  1  lemon.  Break  the  yolk  into  a  shallow  bowl ;  mix  the  mustard,  egg, 
salt  and  pepper  very  thoroughly,  then  add  the  oil  drop  by  drop.  Be  care- 
ful to  stir  always  one  way,  otherwise  it  will  "crack,"  and  must  then  be 
started  over  again.  It  should  thicken  like  a  firm  jelly,  which  can  be  thin- 
ned by  a  squeeze  of  lemon.  After  using  all  the  oil  and  leuion,  add  the 
white  of  the  egg  and  stir  for  eight  minutes,  or  until  very  smooth.  This 
will  make  sufficient  dressing  for  a  quart  of  scallops  boiled  twenty  minutes 
and  allowed  to  become  quite  cold,  mixed  with  an  equal  part  of  cut  celery. 
Garnish  the  dish  with  lettuce  or  the  light  green  leaves  of  the  celery. 

K.  K.  W.  V. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


One  Quart  Salad  Dressing. 

6  eggs,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  mustard,  2  teaspoonfiils  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  6  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  ^  pound  of  butter,  1  pint  of  boiling  water.  Put  the  boiling  water 
and  vinegar  in  a  double  boiler  to  prevent  burning  when  the  eggs  are 
added.  Mix  the  mustard  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water,  and  add  the 
cornstarch,  salt,  and  pepper.  Beat  the  eggs  light  and  add  to  them  the 
above  ingredients,  then  pour  the  whole  into  the  boiling  water,  stirring 
constantly  until  quite  thick.  Add  the  butter  while  hot,  and  stir  until 
thoroughly  melted.  Now  make  a  paste  of  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  coffee 
cupful  of  nice  olive  oil,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  when  the  cooked 
portion  is  perfectly  cold,  beat  this  into  it.  The  best  way  to  make  the  paste 
is  to  put  the  2  yolks  in  a  shallow  dish  and  stir  round  and  round  (not  beat) 
with  a  silver  fork,  putting  in  the  oil  gradually,  and  last  of  all,  the  vinegar. 
Some  prefer  the  dressing  without  the  oil,  using  more  butter.  This  quan- 
tity is  sufficient  to  go  with  two  or  three  chickens,  and  one-half  their  bulk 
when  cut  up,  of  celery.  Mrs.  T.  I.  MacGlasson. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing. 

3  or  4  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt  (even),  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 

1  tablespoonful  of  hard  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed, 

i  cupful  of  vinegar,  f  cupful  of  sweet  cream. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately,  then  together,  stir  mto  this, 
mustard,  salt,  sugar  and  butter.  Heat  vinegar,  pour  over  other  ingredients, 
and  cook  until  of  the  consistency  of  cake  batter.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler, 
and  when  cold,  thin  with  sweet  cream,  whipped.  Mrs.  Atwoocl. 


Boiled  Salad  Dressing. 

1  cupful  of  milk,  1  cupful  of  vinegar,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  each  of 
sugar,  olive  oil  (or  butter),  and  mustard,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  teaspoon- 
ful of  pepper.  Stir  butter,  sugar,  salt,  and  mustard  together  until  smooth, 
then  add  the  beaten  eggs  ;  stir  all  together  and  add  the  vinegar ;  lastly 
the  milk.     Boil  until  thickened.  Mrs.  John  T.  Smith. 


Cream  Salad  Dressing. 

6  eggs,  1  pint  of  cream, 

i  cupful  of  butter,  1  small  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  red  pepper, 

1  cupful  of  sharp  vinegar. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately;  stir  into'the  cream  and 
beat  thoroughly ;  put  in  double  boiler  until  scalding  hot,  then  add  the 
butter  ;  wet  mustard  with  vinegar,  keep  stirring  until  it  thickens  ;  add  a 
little  sugar.     May  use  curry  instead  of  mustard  if  liked  better. 

Contributed,. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Horse  Radish  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horse  radish,  1  wineglassful  of  vinegar,  ^  pint 
of  good  creatu,  1  teaspoonful  of  raw  mustard.  Mrs.  Draper. 

Caper  Sauce. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  \  cupful  of  butter,  1  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  add 
2  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  capers. 

Mrs.  Edgar  A.  Shoo'k. 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Pork  Chops. 

Place  a  cupful  of  strained  tomato  liquor  into  a  saucepan  with  a  small 
onion,  sliced,  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Strain  out  the  onion,  return  juice  to 
the  fire,  thicken  with  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  worked  up  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch,  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  up  quickly,  and  when  you. 
have  laid  chops  on  plate  pour  the  sauce  over  them  and  serve. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Colwell. 


PUDDINGS. 

'The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  the  eating."    Cervajn^tes. 


Imperial  Pudding. 

Part  1st. —        i  cup  rice,  1  quart  boiling  water, 

1  pint  milk. 

Part  2d. —        \  box  gelatine,  \  teaspoonful  salt, 

\  cup  cold  water,  1  cup  sugar, 

\  cup  hot  milk,  1  pint  cream, 

4  tablespoonfuls  wine  or  other  flavorings. 

Part  1st. — Wasli  the  rice  ;  cook  in  the  boiling  water  until  it  has  boiled 
hard,  10  or  15  minutes ;  drain  off  the  water,  add  the  milk  and  cook  1  hour 
in  a  double  boiler. 

Part  2d. — Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  until  very  soft ;  add  the 
hot  milk.  Strain,  add  the  salt  and  sugar  ;  stir  in  the  rice.  Cool,  and  when 
it  is  thick  enough  to  heap  slightly  on  the  spoon,  add  the  flavoring  and 
whipped  cream.  Pour  in  a  buttered  mould.  Serve  cold  with  whipped 
cream,  plain,  or  colored  with  fruit  juice  or  other  coloring. 

Emily  VJ.  Stanley. 

Christian's  Flour  is  made  from  Hard  Spring  Wheat  grown  on  virgin  solL 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  r,u 

Quaking  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  milk,  4  eggs,  5  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  salt. 
Boil  f  of  an  hour  in  a  mold.     Serve  hot. 

Sauce  for  Quaking  JPiiddlnf/. 

Cream  \  cup  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar  ;  yolk  of  1  egg,  \  tea- 
spoonful  of  corn  starch,  wine  to  taste.  Beat  well  while  boiling.  Serve 
hot.  Mrs.  Benjamin  Hammond. 


Albany  Pudding. 

2  eggs,  i  cup  of  butter,  small  cup  of  milk,  3  teaspoonf  uls  of  baking  pow- 
der, 3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  seeded  raisins  and  currants,  flour 
■enough  to  make  a  dough  the  same  thickness  as  for  cake.  Steam  i  hour  in 
•cups.  Mrs.  A.  V.  Rockwell. 

Ginger  Pudding. 

i  pound  of  flour,  i  pound  of  molasses, 

6  ounces  of  suet,  1  ounce  of  ginger, 

1  e^g,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 

Chop  the  suet  very  fine  ;  add  molasses,  then  egg,  beaten  together  ;  then 
add  ginger,  and  last  the  flour,  with  baking  powder  sifted  in  it ;  add  about 
i  cup  of  milk— enough  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  plain  pudding.  Put 
in  mould,  or  bowl,  and  cover  tightly  with  a  cloth.  Put  in  pot  of  boiling 
water,  about  half  full,  and  steam  for  three  hours.  You  must  be  careful 
^not  to  let  the  water  overflow  your  pudding,  or  it  will  be  soggy  and  spoiled. 
Serve  hot  with  wine  sauce. 

Wine  Sauce. 

Put  into  a  bowl  1  good  sized  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  and  i  cup  of  butter  ; 
beat  to  a  cream  ;  add  1  good  sized  glass  of  cooking  wine,  beat  this  into 
the  creamed  sugar  and  butter  ;  then  have  the  kettle  boiling  and  place  the 
bowl  into  the  top  of  the  cover  of  the  kettle  ;  let  it  stand  without  stirring 
tintil  it  is  a  mass  of  foam.     Serve  very  hot.  Mrs.  G.  H.  Williams. 


Brown  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  \\  cups  of  graham  or  white 
flour,  1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  suet,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves 
and  allspice,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda.  Boil  about  four  hours.  Soak 
bread  crumbs  in  sour  milk.  Mrs.  Newlin. 


Velvet  Pudding. 

3  cups  of  sweet  milk  ;  bring  to  a  boil,  sweeten,  and  thicken  with  corn 
starch  ;  remove  from  the  stove  and  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  well  beaten, 
with  a  cup  of  cocoanut  ;  beat  the  whites  stiff  and  place  on  top;  brown 
slightly  in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Garret  IStorni. 


'^ HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Velvet  Pudding. 

1  quart  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  of  sugar  ;  bring  to  a  boil  and  stir 
in  Z  large  spoonfulls  of  corn  starch,  dissolved  in  |  cupful  of  cold  milk  and 
then  beaten  up  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  ;  as  soon  as  smooth,  stir  in  flavor- 
ing and  pour  into  a  deep  dish  ;  cover  the  top  with  the  2  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  little  sugar.     Serve  cold  with  currant  jelly  for  sauce. 

Mrs.  Willis  VanBiiren. 


Composition  Pudding. 

Stir  into  1  pint  of  boiling  milk  3  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  1  of 
corn  starch  made  into  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk  ;  add  a  small  piece  of 
butter  ;  beat  4  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  when  it  has  cooled 
a  little,  stir  in  the  eggs  just  before  it  is  put  in  the  oven.  Place  pudding 
dish  in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake  about  i  an  hour.  Stir  pudding  once  or 
twice  while  baking  and  serve  with  sauce.  Miss  E.  DuBois. 


Carrot  Pudding. 

I  pound  of  raw  potatoes,  grated,  I  pound  of  raw  carrots,  grated,  i  pound 
of  flour,  ^  pound  of  currants,  chopped  fine,  a  few  raisins,  ^  pound  of  suet, 
chopped  fine,  a  little  salt  and  allspice.  Mix  it  the  consistency  of  a  pudding 
for  boiling  in  a  tin,  by  mixing  with  molasses— 3  tablespoonfuls  will  be 
enough.  Boil  2  hours.  Almost  as  ^ood  as  a  real  plum  pudding.  To  be 
turned  out  and  eaten  with  a  sauce.  Mary  W.  BrincUerlioff. 


Caramel  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  burnt  sugar  ;  then  to  1  quart  of  warm  or  boiling  milk  add  yolks 
of  4  eggs  and  \  cup  of  sugar.  When  baked  and  a  little  cool,  beat  the  whites 
stiff  with  a  little  sugar  and  put  on  the  pudding  ;  then  brown  slightly. 

Miss  Rumsey. 

New  England  Thanksgiving  Pudding. 

6  crackers,  broken  in  small  pieces,  2  quarts  of  milk, 
4  eggs,  li  cups  of  raisins, 

I  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful.of  cloves,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 

i  of  a  nutmeg. 
Soak  the  crackers  in  milk  ;  cover  and  bake  slowly  for  five  or  six  hours. 

Jeannette  Weston. 

Graham  Pudding. 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  e^g, 

I  cup  molasses,  1  cup  raisins, 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  cup  graham  flour. 

Steam  1  hour.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Hoysvadt. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  71 

Floating  Island. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  5  ep:gs  and  the  whites  of  2  very  light ;  sweeten  with  5 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste  ;  stir  them  into  a  quart  of 
scalded  milk,  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  When  cool  pour  into  a  glass  dish. 
Now  whip  whites  of  the  3  remaining  eggs  to  a  stitT  froth,  adding  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  little  flavoring;  pour  this  froth  over  a  shallow 
dish  of  boiling  wa+er,  the  steam  passing  through  it  until  it  cooks  ;  when 
sufficiently  cooked  take  a  tablespoon  and  drop  spoonfuls  of  this  over  the 
top  of  the  custard  far  enough  apart  so  that  the  "little  white  islands"  will 
not  touch  each  other.  By  dropping  a  teaspoonful  of  bright  jelly  on  the 
top  or  centre  of  each  island  a  pleasing  effect  is  produced.  Also,  by  filling 
wine  glasses  and  arranging  them  around  a  standard,  adds  much  to  the 
appearance  of  the  table.  Mrs.  W.  A.  Jones. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

i  cap  of  butter,  1^  cups  of  sugar, 

1  egg,  i  cup  of  milk, 

1  heaping  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 

2  squares  Baker's  chocolate,  grated,     a  pinch  of  salt. 

Steam  3  hours  in  mould.     Serve  with  hard  sauce.  Contributed. 


Lemon  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  boiled  rice,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  eg^^ 
the  rind  of  1  lemon.  Put  it  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  stiffen  for  the 
merangue.  Whites  of  3  eggs,  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  the  juice  of 
1  lemon.     Spread  over  the  pudding.  Mrs.  Edgar  A.  Shook. 

Swiss  Pudding. 

1  teacupfui  of  flour,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  milk, 

5  eggs,  the  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemon  into  the  milk,  and  put  into  a  double  boiler. 
Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together  ;  pour  the  boiling  milk  on  this  and  re- 
turn lo  the  boiler  ;  cook  five  minutes,  stirring  the  first  two  minutes.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  mix- 
ture. Reujove  from  the  fire  ;  when  cold  add  tiie  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  a  mold  well  butteretl,  turri  the  pudding  into  it,  and 
steam  a  full  hour. 

S(f  tire  for  Sir>lss  Paddut(j, 
I,  pound  brown  sugar,  4  ounces  V)utter, 

4  tablespoonfuls  i^-eam.  wineglassful  of  wine. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  a<l(l  the  sugar  and  the  cream,  then  the  wine. 
Put  in  a  bowl  over  the  teakettle,  let  it  stay  there  about  flfeeen  minutes. 
The  kettle  should  be  boihng,  and  the  s^uce  shoidd  look  white  and  foamy 
all  through.  EiiDiia  F.  BrincJx'erJioff. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Orange  Marmalade  Pudding. 

1  cup  stale  bread  eruiubs,  1  cup  orange  niannalade, 

1  cup  flour,  \  cup  finely  cut  suet, 

i  cup  sugar,  1  egg, 

1  teaspoonful  baking-powder,  |  cup  milk  (about), 
a  speck  of  salt. 
Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  ;  add  the  sugar,  bread 
crumbs,  suet  and  marmalade  ;  stir  well,  then  add  the  beaten  e^^  and 
enough  milk  to  make  a  moist  dough.  Stir  well  and  fill  a  thoroughly  but- 
tered mould  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top,  cover  tightly  and  steam  2  hours. 
Turn  it  out  upon  a  hot  dish  and  pour  sauce  around  it. 

3Iarinalade  Sauce. 

1  cup  boiling  water,  ^  cup  sugar, 

2  tablespoonfuls  marmalade,      ^  teaspoonful  corn  starch, 

the  juice  of  i  a  lemon. 
Mix  the  corn  starch  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water  ;   stir  over  the  fire  till 
it  boils,  add  marmalade  and  lemon  juice  ;  boil  5  minutes  and  pour  it  round 
the  pudding.  Emily  W.  Stanley. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Soak  over  night  8  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  i  pint  of  cold  water.  In 
the  morning  add  1  quart  of  milk,  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  ;  add  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs  and  2  cups  of  sugar  beaten  together,  and  cook  15  minutes, 
stirring  frequently  ;  take  off  and  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  pour  in  dish 
to  serve  ;  add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  D.  C.  Smith. 

Soft  Corn  Starch  Pudding. 

1  quart  of  milk,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  diissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  salt,  1  tea- 
spoonful flavoring.     Cook  thoroughly  in  a  double  boiler.     Serve  cold. 

L.  K.  B. 

Tapioca  Cream  Pudding. 

4  even  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  tapioca,  or  \\  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated 
tapioca  soaked  until  soft  in  a  teacupful  of  water  ;  then  add  1  pint  of  milk 
with  a  little  salt,  i  ook  until  scalding  hot,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well 
beaten  with  a  small  cupful  of  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring.  Cover 
with  a  meringue  ujade  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  4  table- 
spoonfuls of  powdered  sugar.     Brown  in  oven.     Serve  cold.  E.  B. 


Snow  Pudding. 

The  rin<l  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar;  1  box  of  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  add  lemons  and  sugar  and  i)ut  into 
a  mould.     When  cold  serve  with  a  rich  custard.  A.  M.  Davidson. 


\ 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Caramel  Custard. 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  or  \\  cups  of  water;  cook  in  frying  pan 
until  the  liquid  is  an  amber  color.  Pour  into  a  mould,  having  first  wet  the 
mould  with  cold  water  ;  move  the  mould  about  until  a  crust  of  the  burnt 
sugar  covers  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the  mould.  When  the  crust  is  cool 
enough  to  crack,  pour  in  the  custard,  and  put  the  mould  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  in  a  hot  oven.     When  done  turn  out  on  a  platter.      Miss  Kittredge. 

Raisin  Puffs. 

i  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk, 

2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

1  cup  of  raisins,  chopped. 

Put  in  small  cups  and  steam  i  hour.  Serve  with  either  wine  sauce  or 
liard  sauce  ;  both  are  good.  Mrs.  Lewis  Tompkins. 

A  Simple  Pudding. 

1  quart  of  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch, 

I  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

When  this  boils  take  it  from  the  stove  ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  i  of 
this  into  a  mould  ;  stir  into  the  remaining  half  a  small  piece  of  chocolate, 
and  when  it  is  thoroughly  dissolved  pour  upon  the  other  in  the  mould. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  Brett. 

Cottage  Pudding  with  Fruit. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk, 

2  cups  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;, 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,      1  cup  of  any  kind  of  berries. 

To  be  eaten  with  hard  sauce.  Mrs.  Solomon  Tompkins. 

Steamed  Bread  Pudding. 

1  quart  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  water  and  squeezed  dry,  1  cup  of 
molasses,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  raisins  and  currants, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  large  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnaiuon,  \ 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  (or  better,  the  cinnamon  and  a  little  grated  orange 
peel).     Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce  flavored  with  nutmeg.       3Irs.  DuIIond. 


Suet  Pudding. 

2  eggs.  1  cup  of  milk.  \  cup  of  molasses,  1  cuj)  of  suet  chopped  fhie,  1  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  ;  sift  in  sufficient  flour  to 
make  it  thick  as  cake  ;  1  cup  of  raisins,  1  cup  of  currants,  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Dreir. 


Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.  -  See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


National  Suet  Pudding. 

3  cups  of  chopped  suet,  2  cups  of  raisins,  2  cups  of  molasses,  4  cups  of 
flour,  Icupofujilk,  o  teaspooufuls  of  baking  powder.  Boil  3^  hours.  Eat 
while  hot. 

Sdtice  for  Ndtloual  Suet  Padding. 

1  cup  of  sujj:ar,  I  cup  of  butter,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  wine  or  vinegar. 
Beat  15  minutes  and  heat  to  a  scald.  3Irs.  Edgar  G.  Greene. 


Snow  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  boiling  water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch.  Boil  3  minutes, 
remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  together  and  pour  in  mould 
to  cool.  For  the  custard  take  i  pint  of  boiling  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  corn 
starch  ;  bring  milk  to  a  boil,  add  corn  starch,  and  boil  3  minutes.  Beat 
the  yolks  and  add  |  cup  of  sugar  ;  add  to  the  corn  starch,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  serve  with  the  custard  poured  about  the  snow. 

Mrs.  Fred.  Joiies. 

Prune  Pudding. 

Stone  i  pound  of  prunes  and  stew  them  until  very  tender  ;  it  is  well  to 
let  them  soak  over  night  before  stewing,  also  to  cut  each  prune  in  two  or 
three  pieces,  and  then  stew  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  so  as  to  make  as 
little  juice  as  possible,  When  cold  add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and  1 
cup  of  sugar.     Bake  20  minutes.     Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

M.  E.  Stearns. 

Granulated  Tapioca  Cream. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  tapioca,  1  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  vanilla 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Soak  the  tapioca  in  water  until  soft.  Boil  the  milk  ; 
while  boiling  stir  in  the  tapioca  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  the 
sugar.  When  cooked  sufficiently  pour  into  a  dish  to  cool  ;  when  cold  add 
the  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  sweeten  and  flavor  them, 
and  stir  part  into  the  pudding,  putting  the  rest  on  top. 

Reta  I.  Tompkins. 

Farina  Balls. 

Scald  2  cups  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  ;  when  milk  is  very  hot  add  |  cup 
of  farina,  a  little  at  a  time,  so  as  not  to  stop  the  milk  from  boiling  ;  when 
farina  has  stiffened,  add  the  yolk  of  1  q^^.  5  drops  of  onion  juice,  a  dash 
of  pepper,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  celery  salt  ;  mix  well  together 
and  turn  farina  out  on  a  platter  to  cool.  Roll  into  balls  ;  roll  in  seasoned 
cracker  ;  dip  in  beaten  e^^.  then  roll  again  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
basket.     Serve  as  a  vegetable,  or  with  maple  syrup  for  dessert. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Jones. 

^'Perfect"  Champion  Peas  are  equal  to  those  from  your  own  garden. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Gem  Pudding. 

1  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs, 

1  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  sugar,  and  a  little  salt. 

Put  in  oven  and  bake.  When  done  have  ready  the  whites  of  4  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  1  small  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of 
i  a  lemon.    Spread  over  the  top  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Mrs.  F.  H.  BreiL 

Apple  Snow. 

1  pint  of  highly  flavored  tart  apple  sauce  mixed  with  the  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs.  Make  a  meringue  for  the  top  with  2  more  whites  and  a  little 
sugar.     Brown  slightly  and  serve  cold.  Mrs.  Howell  White. 


Nesselrode  Pudding. 

Make  a  custard  with  1  quart  of  thin  cream,  4  yolks  and  1  whole  egg,  5- 
level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  1  teaspoonf ul  of  arrowroot  first  dissolved 
in  some  of  the  milk.  Shell  1  pint  of  small  chestnuts,  throw  them  into  boil- 
ing water  and  then  into  cold,  rub  off  the  skins,  boil  gently  till  tender,  rub 
hot  through  a  colander  into  the  warm  custard.  When  cold  add  i  a  glass 
of  sherry.  Freeze,  and  when  half  frozen,  add  brandied  peaches,  cut  fine. 
Serve  with  flavored  and  sweetened  whipped  cream,  or  else  brandy  syrup. 

Mrs.  Howell  White. 

Fruit  Cream. 

Use  a  potato  strainer  to  get  the  juice  and  pulp  of  ^  a  can  of  apricots,  S 
bananas,  3  lemons,  and  3  good  oranges.  Strain  3  cups  of  water  through 
to  help.     Add  3  cups  of  sugar  and  freeze.  Mrs.  Howell  White. 


Pine  Apple  Meringue. 

Peel,  cook,  and  sweeten  1  ripe  pine,  add  1  teaspoon ful  of  corn  starch 
mixed  with  water,  and  grated  peel  of  i  a  lemon.  Bake  in  a  crust  with 
meringue  on  top.  Mrs.  Howell  White. 

Whortleberry  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  molasses,  1  quart  of  flour,  1  quart  of  berries,  1  small  tablespoon- 
ful  of  powdered  cloves,  1  small  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  fill  of  dry 
saleratus  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Boil  about  4  hours,  and  serve  with 
hot  liquid  wine  sauce. 

Sauce, 

1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar  ;  mix  to  a  cream  and  i)lace  on  back  of 
stove  where  it  will  come  to  the  boiling  point,  bnt  not  boil.  Add  before 
serving,  a  glass  of  sherry  or  brandy.  Mrs.  Draper. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


76 HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Creamy  Sauce. 

i  of  a  cup  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  1  small  teacup  of  powdered  sugar ; 
beat  smooth  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  the  white  of  1  egg.  Place  in  a 
bowl  of  boiling  water,  stir  until  creamed  ;   place  in  a  cold  bowl  and  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Luyster. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

i  pound  of  currants,  1  pound  of  raisins, 

i  pound  of  beef  suet,  ^  pound  of  brown  sugar, 

f  pound  of  flour,  2  ounces  of  citron, 

3  eggs,  nutmeg  and  salt, 

molasses  to  thicken. 
Steam  six  hours.     This  will  make  two.     Will  keep  weeks.    Serve  with  a 
iiard  sauce.  Mrs.  Lewis  Tompkins. 

Plum  Pudding. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  chopped  suet, 

43  cups  flour,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants, 

i  pound  chopped  figs,  \  pound  chopped  dates, 

i  pound  citron,  1  teaspoonf ul  soda  mixed  with  milk, 

2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  4  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 
i  teaspoonful  cloves,  i  teaspoonful  salt, 

2  eggs. 
jMix  well  and  steam  four  hours.  Mrs.  E.  J.  Joseph. 


Prune  Pudding. 

1  pound  of  stewed  prunes,  the  whites  of  4  eggs, 

1  cupful  of  sugar. 
After  the  prunes  are  stewed,  drain  off  the  juice,  remove  the  stones,  and 
chop.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  beat- 
ing all  the  time  ;  then  stir  in  the  chopped  prunes.  Bake  until  a  light  brown. 
Serve  cold  with  a  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  3  cupfuls  of  milk, 
and  i  a  cupful  of  sugar.     Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  L.  Alsdorf. 

Prune  Whip. 

1  pound  of  prunes,  1  small  teacupful  of  sugar, 

the  whites  of  4  eggs,  J  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

I  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Soak  the  prunes  over  night  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them.  In  the 
morning,  stone,  and  boil  them  in  the  water  they  were  soaked  in  until  they 
form  a  thick  paste,  adding  the  sugar.  When  cool,  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  then  add  soda  and  salt.  Bake  in  a  pudding 
dish  until  brown.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  boiled  custard. 

Mrs.  McPherson. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Prune  Pudding. 

1  pound  of  prunes  stewed  until  perfectly  tender ;  remove  the  pits  and 
mash  in  an  earthen  pudding  dish  ;  add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  egrgs,  f  of  a 
cup  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake  15  minutes.  To  be  eaten^ 
cold,  and  served  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  P.  F.  Norris. 


Fig  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  chopped  figs, 

i  cup  of  melted  butter,  2  eggs, 

I  cup  of  sugar,  1^  cups  of  flour, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Steam  in  a  pudding  dish  in  steamer  with  cloth  under  the  cover.     Serve* 
with  boiled  sauce  with  chopped  figs  in  it.  Mrs.  William  Oordo7i. 


Fruit  Pudding. 

1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  2  slightly  rounding  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, i  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  rounding  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  1  e^^,  |  of  a  cup  of  milk,  a  pint  can  of  cherries,  or  may 
use  dates,  flgs,  or  dried  fruit.  Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and 
sugar  ;  rub  the  butter  into  this  mixture  ;  thoroughly  beat  the  e^^,  add  the 
milk  to  it ;  pour  over  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  into  a  batter.  All  fruit 
must  be  floured  first  before  putting  into  batter. 

Sauce, 

The  juice  from  a  pint  can  of  cherries,  a  little  hot  water,  and  lemon  juice 
to  flavor.  Thicken  with  a  little  corn  starch.  (For  dates,  figs,  or  dried, 
fruit  use  vanilla  sauce.)  Contributed. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. 

Make  a  batter  same  as  for  muffins,  only  not  so  thick.  2  eggs,  1  cup  of 
flour,  f  cup  of  butter,  1  quart  of  berries,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
enough  milk  to  make  it  hold  together  and  bake  slowly. 

Sauce, 

1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  i  cupful  of  butter  ;  beat  well  together,  then 
put  in  the  white  of  1  egg  and  beat  thoroughly.  Tablespoonful  of  whiskey 
or  wine.  Just  before  using,  stir  in  on  the  oven  1  tablespoonful  of  boiling 
wacer. 

Steamed  Berry  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  IJ  teaspoonfuls  of  Cleveland's  baking  powder,  2 
cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  large  cups  of  berries.  Steam  about  2 
hours.  Miss  L.  Benso)i,. 

CHRISTIAN'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR  will  make  more  loaves,  and  better  bread, 
than  any  other  flour  on  tlie  market. 


7S  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Yorktown  Cherry  Pudding. 

1  cap  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

1  egg',  a  pinch  of  salt, 

1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour, 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  flavor  with  nutmeg, 
2  cups  of  pitted  cherries.  Steam  1^  hours. 

Sauce, 

Rub  1  cup  of  sugar  and  |  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  1  beaten  egg  and 
a  cup  of  boiling  milk  ;  stir  it  briskh^  till  it  thickens,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Flavor  with  lemon.  Mi^s.  N.  Smith. 


Whortleberry  Pudding. 

1  quart  of  whortleberries,  1  pint  of  molasses,  i  teacupful  of  water,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  the  water,  cinnamon  or  cloves  to  taste, 
ilour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter  as  soft  as  gingerbread.  Boil  2  hours 
in  a  tin  or  bag,  either  should  be  greased  or  floured.     Very  good. 

Mary  W.  Brinckerhoff. 

Peach  Pudding. 

Fill  a  pudding  dish  with  whole  peeled  peaches,  and  pour  over  them  two 
cups  of  water.  Cover  closely  and  bake  until  the  peaches  are  tender,  then 
drain  the  juice  from  the  fruit  and  stand  until  cool.  Add  to  the  juice  1  pint 
of  sweet  milk,  4  well  beaten  eggs,  1  small  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour  with 
1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  mixed  with  it,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  well  three  or  four  minutes,  and  pour  over 
the  fruit  in  dish.     Bake  until  a  rich  brown  and  serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Edgar  Shook. 


Blackberry   Pudding. 

1  pint  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  beaten  to  a  froth  ;  3  pints  of 
blackberries  (or  chopped  apples  in  winter)  rolled  in  1  quart  of  flour,  1  large 
tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  of  cloves,  and  1  of  allspice,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  all  well  with  the  beaten  molasses.  Pour  in  a  buttered  mould  and  boil 
o  hours,  keeping  well  covered  with  boiling  water.  Serve  hot  with  hard 
sauce.  Mrs.  B.  S.  Tompkins. 


Strawberry  Dumpling. 

Take  1  pint  of  flour,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, rub  in  1  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  add  sufficient  milk  to  moisten  ;  knead 
lightly  and  roll  into  a  thin  sheet ;  cut  with  large  cutter,  put  3  berries  into 
centre  of  each,  fold  carefully,  brush  top  with  milk,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  15  minutes.  Serve  with  strawberry  butter.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
creamed  with  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  4  berries  mashed  ;  beat  all  together 
thoroughly.  Sarah  A.  B.  Aldridge. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  79 

Strawberry  Pudding. 

Sift  1\  cops  of  flour  with  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  into  a 
bowl ;  add  I  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  rub  the  butter 
fine  in  the  flour ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  f  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  add  it 
to  the  flour  and  mix  all  together  ;  add  last  the  2  beaten  whites.  Fill  the 
mixture  in  a  buttered  melon  form.  If  a  form  is  not  convenient,  take  a  lard 
kettle,  butter  it  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  fill  in  the  batter  ; 
close  it  tightly  and  place  the  pudding  in  a  kettle  with  sufficient  water  to 
reach  ^  up  the  form.  Boil  1^  hours.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  have  too 
much  water  in  the  kettle,  as  the  water  is  apt  to  get  under  the  cover  and 
make  the  pudding  soggy. 

Straivherry  Sauce. 

Rinse  a  stone  bowl  with  hot  water  and  dry  it ;  then  put  in  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter  and  stir  until  creamy,  add  slowly  while  stirring  6  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar ;  stir  until  it  is  white  like  snow.  Crush  with  a  silver 
fork  1  cupful  of  ripe  strawberries,  add  to  the  sauce,  and  serve  with  the 
pudding.     (Canned  strawberries  may  be  used.)  E.  C.  Rosa. 


Fruit  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  raisins,  |  cup  of  currants  or  citron,  1  teaspoonful  of  mixed  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  allspice,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  small  cups  of  flour,  1  cup 
of  molasses.  1  small  cup  of  butter  or  suet,  1  cup  of  milk,  a  little  salt.  An 
egg  can  be  used  or  not.     Steam  for  3  hours. 

Sauce, 

1  large  cup  of  sugar,  |  of  a  large  cup  of  butter  ;  beat  these  to  a  light 
froth,  then  add  and  beat  well  with  it  the  yolk  of  1  egg  ;  beat  the  white 
very  light,  and  add  this  with  the  wine  or  flavoring.  A  little  milk  may  be 
added  if  you  wish  the  sauce  thinner.  Then  set  it  on  a  pot  of  hot  water 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  lliss  Cotlieal. 


PIES. 

"No  flippant  sugared  notion 

Shall  my  appetite  appease. 
Or  bate  my  souTs  devotion 

To  apple  pie  and  cheese.''        Ei  gkne  FiKiiD, 


Cream  Cocoanut  Pie. 

\\  cups  of  milk,  1  egg, 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  corn  starcli, 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoanut,         flavoring. 

Let  the  milk  and  cocoanut  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  sugar  and  egg  well 
beaten  together  ;  add  corn  starch  wet  with  very  little  milk.  Pour  in  a  rich, 
well  baked  crust,  sprinkle  cocoanut  on  top,  set  in  a  cool  [)lace  to  mould. 

M.  E.  Stearns. 

To  have  tender,  flaky  crust  on  your  pies  use  CHRISTIAN'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR. 


<sv>  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Cream   Pie. 

Make  a  rich  crust,  bake.  Filling  : — 2  cups  of  milk,  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  starch,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  su^-ar,  salt,  flavoring.  Fill  the  crust  with 
filling.  Meringue  : — Beat  the  whites  stiff,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Brown  lightly.  L.  J.  Jaynes. 

Cream  Pie. 

5  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1  egg.  Mix  flour  and 
sugar  thoroughly  ;  add  the  egg  beaten  to  a  foam,  then  enough  very  thick 
sweet  cream  to  fill  one  crust.  Miss  S.  T.  Hills. 


Cream  Pie. 

1  pint  of  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch, 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  egg, 

1  teaspoon  ful  of  butter. 
Cook  all  together  ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Mrs.  H.  E.  Allison. 

Custard  Pie. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  to  a  cream.  Stir  thoroughly  a  tablespoonful  of 
sifted  flour  into  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  then  add  it  to  the  beaten  yolks. 
Put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  lastly  a  pint  of  scalded 
milk  which  has  been  cooled.  Mix  this  in  by  degrees,  and  turn  all  into  a 
deep  pie  tin  lined  with  puff  paste.     Bake  from  25  to  30  minutes. 

Carolyn  A.  Corwin. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Boil  H  cups  of  milk,  thicken  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  ;  add  1 
teaspoonful  of  butter.  Beat  2  eggs  with  1  cup  of  sugar.  Put  all  together. 
When  cold  add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  small  lemons.  Bake  with  fancy 
top  crust  or  with  meringue.  Mrs.  DaMond. 

Lemon   Pie. 

1\  lemons,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  of  sugai*,  1  scant  cup  of  water, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch,         butter  size  of  a  small  egg. 

Miss  E.  DuBois. 


Chocolate  Pie. 

1  coffee  cup  of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate, 

f  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs. 

Heat  the  chocolate  and  milk  together  ;  add  the  sugar  and  yolks  together, 
beaten  to  a  cream.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  with  under  crust.  Spread 
meringue  of  the  whites  over  the  top.  Annie  L.  Brinckerhnff. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  81 

Rhubarb  Pie. 

2  cups  of  rhubarb  chopped  fine,  li  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  leaving  out  the 
whites  of  3  for  the  frosting.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  with  one  crust. 

Mrs.  P.  F.  Norris, 

Marlborough  Pie. 

1  cup  of  stewed  apple,  rubbed  through  a  sieve,   I  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs, 
sugar  to  taste.    Bake  without  an  upper  crust.  B.  E.  W.  Conhlin, 


Mock  Mince  Pie. 

1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
water,  ^  cup  of  vinegar,  (if  very  sharp  i  of  a  cup  and  a  little  more  water), 
butter  the  size  of  a  butternut,  i  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  the  same  of 
cloves  and  nutmeg.    Cook  all  together.    Makes  one  good  sized  pie. 

Mrs.  W.  JS.  Colwell. 


Pumpkin  Pie.    (Very  Fine.) 

8  cups  of  stewed  pumpkin,  7  eggs,  1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  3  cups  of  sugar,  1|  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  i  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, I  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  blended  in  a  little 
milk,  and  stirred  in  last.  L.  E.  B. 

Bauberries. 

1  pound  of  raisins  seeded  and  chopped,  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  rind 
of  1,  H  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  rolled  crackers.  Mix 
all  together  well.  Make  a  good  pie  crust,  roll  out  very  thin,  cut  out  round 
with  a  large  biscuit  cutter  ;  put  on  a  little  of  the  mixture,  fold  over  like  a 
turnover,  pinch  the  edges  well  together,  prick  the  top  with  a  fork,  and 
bake.    This  will  make  sixty.     The  mixture  will  keep  a  long  time  if  covered. 

Mrs.  Beneway. 

Mince  Meat  for  Pies. 

3  pounds  of  chopped  beef,  i  pound  of  chopped  suet, 

2  pounds  of  raisins,  2  pounds  of  currants, 

1  pound  of  citron,  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
\  peck  of  apples,  i  ounce  of  pepper, 

2  quarts  of  cider,  1  pint  of  molasses, 

1  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon,  1  ounce  of  ground  cloves, 

\  ounce  of  mace,  3  nutmegs, 

the  rind  of  3  oranges,  the  rind  of  3  lemons, 

salt  to  taste,  if  brandy  is  desired,  add  to  taste. 

Boil  all  together  in  a  pot  until  done.  It  will  then  keep  all  winter  and  be 
ready  for  pies  at  any  time.  A.  G.  H. 

To  have  tender,  flaky  crust  on  your  pies  use  CHRISTIAN'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR. 


HIQHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Mince  Pies. 

4  pounds  of  beef,  choppe(J,  1  peck  of  apples,  chopped, 

2  pounds  of  suet,  chopped,  2^  pounds  of  raisins, 
2^  pounds  of  currants,  2  nutmegs, 

1  ounce  of  cinnamon,  i  ounce  of  cloves  and  allspice, 

3  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  pint  of  brandy, 

2  quarts  of  cider  after  it  has  been  boiled  down  thick  as  molasses. 
(Not  to  be  cooked.)  Mrs.  Lewis  Tompkins. 


For  Mince  Pies. 

5  pounds  of  meat,  4  quarts  of  apples, 

1  quart  of  molasses,  1  quart  of  sugar, 

1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  currants, 

1  pound  of  citron,  3  quarts  of  cider, 

i  ounce  of  cloves,  ^  ounce  of  allspice, 

1  ounce  of  cinnamon,  4  ounces  of  nutmegs, 

2  tablespoonf  uls  of  salt,  3  lemons, 

i  pound  of  suet,  chopped. 

After  cooking  it  put  into  cans.  Mrs.  Bearing. 


Potato  Pie. 

1  pound  of  potatoes,  boiled  and  grated  ;  rub  i  pound  of  butter  in  while 
warm  ;  i  a  nutmeg,  the  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  5  eggs  ;  f  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  added  to  the  potatoes  ;  a  cup  of  cream.  Add  the  cream,  sugar,  and 
yolks  alternately,  the  whites  last.     Bake  in  a  paste. 

Annie  R.  C.  Sherwood. 


Cream  Filling  for  Pie. 

1  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour, 

1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,       2  eggs, 

a  pinch  of  salt,  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste. 

Mix  the  sugar,  flour,  cornstarch  and  yolks  (beaten)  of  eggs  together,  and 
when  the  milk  boils  add  the  above  mixture ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes ; 
pour  into  pie  dish  in  which  the  crust  has  already  been  baked  ;  add  the 
beaten  whites,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Mrs.  Bertram  L.  Smith. 


To  Stiffen  Meringues. 

In  making  meringues  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and 
they  will  stiffen  quickly. 

Cook  Ever7thing  on  a  Gas  Range.— Sae  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


DESSERTS. 


"An 't  please  your  honor,"  quoth  the  peasant, 
"This  same  dessert  is  very  pleasant."        Pope. 


Lemon  Custard. 

2  lemons,  5  eggs,  1  large  cupful  of  sugar.  Put  into  a  porcelain  saucepan 
the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  the  rind  of  one,  grated  ;  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  with  the  sugar ;  set  the  saucepan  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
on  the  stove  ;  stir  constantly  until  it  bubbles.  Have  ready  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  beaten  stiff  ;  take  the  custard  off  the  stove  and  lightly  beat  them 
in.    Pour  into  a  glass  dish  or  custard  cups.    Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Thomas  S.  Newlin. 


Strawberry  Gelatine. 

i  a  box  of  gelatine,  soaked  in  a  cupful  of  cold  water  for  20  minutes  ;  add 
li  eupfuls  of  sugar,  and  2  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  ;  stir  until  all  are  dis- 
solved ;  when  lukewarm  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  grated  rind  of  1. 
Set  away  to  cool ;  when  it  begins  to  stiffen,  whip  into  it,  by  degrees,  the 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  ;  then  add  i  pint  of  strawberries,  put  in  mold  and 
set  away  to  cool.    Serve  with  sweetened  cream.  Mrs.  D.  C.  Smith. 


Orange  Float. 

Put  1  quart  of  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and  the  pulp  and  juice  of  2  lemons, 
on  the  fire  ;  when  boiling,  thicken  with  4  tablespoonf  uls  of  cornstarch,  and 
boil  ten  or  twelve  minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  when  cold,  pour  it  over 
some  sliced  oranges,  and  spread  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  sweetened, 
and  flavored  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  over  all. 

Mrs.  P.  F.  Norris. 

Coffee  Cream. 

The  following  recipe  is  that  of  a  famous  cook,  and  will  be  a  refreshing 
hot  weather  addition  to  the  desserts  : 

To  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  add  the  yolks  of  4  well  beaten  eggs  and  i  pound 
of  sugar.  Set  it  on  the  fire  to  thicken,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  mix  with  it  a  cupful  of  very  strong  coffee.  When  this  is 
cold,  freeze.  You  may,  if  you  have  no  freezer,  place  this  creamy  mass  in  a 
tin  pail,  shut  the  cover  down  tight,  and  turn  the  pail  awhile  and  stir  about 
in  ice  and  coarse  salt,  just  the  same  as  though  you  had  a  freezer.  This  will, 
in  an  hour  or  more,  be  nice  enough  for  a  dessert  for  a  queen. 

Contributed. 

''Perfect"  Champion  Peas  are  equal  to  those  from  your  own  garden. 


81^  HIGHLAJSD  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Orange  Dessert. 

Pare  5  or  6  oranges,  cut  into  thin  slices,  pour  over  them  a  large  cupful  of 
sugar  ;  boil  1  pint  of  milk,  add  while  boiling,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch  (made  smooth  with  a  little  milk,)  stir  all  the  time  ; 
as  soon  as  thickened,  pour  over  the  oranges  ;  beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to 
a  froth,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  pour  over  the  custard, 
and  brown  in  the  oven.    Serve  cold.  Mrs.  N.  Smith. 


Cranberry  Frappe'. 

Boil  1  quart  of  cranberries  in  1  pint  of  water  for  five  or  six  minutes  ;  strain 
through  a  coarse  cloth  ;  add  1  pint  of  sugar  and  stir  and  boil  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  When  cold,  add  the  strained  juice  of  2  lemons.  Freeze  to  a 
mush.  Serve  in  glass  cups,  either  with  or  just  after  turkey.  Place  the 
cups  on  plates  with  doilies.  Mrs.  Ime. 

Orange  a  la  Surprise. 

Take  fine  oranges  and  cut  them  around  the  centre  :  take  out  all  the  pulp 
and  lay  the  skins  in  cold  water  until  ready  for  use,  then  take  out  and  dry. 
Fill  one  half  with  jelly  made  of  the  pulp  and  Jell-0  (orange  flavor,)  the  other 
half  with  whipped  cream.  Set  in  the  ice  box  to  harden.  When  ready  to 
serve,  put  them  together  and  tie  with  narrow  ribbons.        Mrs.  Parsons. 


Suet  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  raisins, 

2  cups  of  fiour,  1  cup  of  milk, 

1  cup  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

a  little  salt,  spice,  according  to  taste. 

Tie  in  a  cloth,  or  put  in  tin  pudding  bag,  and  boil  in  water  hard  for  two 

hours.    Serve  with  rich  sauce.  Mrs.  J.  E.  Dean. 


Apple  Custard. 

Put  f  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  water,  to  dis- 
solve. When  it  is  dissolved,  add  2  pounds  of  apples,  peeled  and  cored,  the 
peel  of  1  lemon,  grated,  and  part  of  the  juice.  Boil  until  stiff,  then  put  it 
into  a  mould.  When  turned  out  ice  cold,  stick  all  over  with  blanched 
almonds,  and  serve  with  soft  custard  around  it.  Mrs.  Draper. 


Brown  Bread  Bruis. 

Take  the  crusts  of  home-made  brown  bread  ;  dry  them  thoroughly  in  the 
oven  ;  soak  them  in  water  until  soft ;  boil  up  thoroughly  after  adding  one 
tablespoonful  of  black  molasses.  Before  serving,  add  a  large  lump  of  but- 
ter, and  salt  to  taste.    Make  it  about  as  stiff  as  oatmeal.    Serve  with  cream . 

Miss  Cotheal. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  85 

Italian  Cream. 

Make  a  custard  of  1  pint  of  luilk',  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  3  tablespoon- 
f  uls  of  sugar  ;  add  a  dash  of  salt.  When  it  is  cooked  enough  to  coat  the 
spoon,  add  1  ounce  of  gelatine,  which  has  soaked  for  haU  an  hour  in  some 
of  the  cold  milk.  As  soon  as  the  gelatine  has  dissolved,  remove  from  the 
fire,  and  when  it  begins  to  stiffen,  fold  in  carefully  the  whites  of  3  eggs, 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.     Turn  into  a  mould  to  set.  Mi^s.  Ivie. 

Ice  Cream. 

3  pints  of  milk,  1  pound  of  sugar, 

1  quart  of  cream,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine, 

flavoring. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  one-half  the  milk  for  one  hour.     Set  the  rest  of  the 
milk  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  or  double  boiler ;  when  it  boils,  add  the 
gelatine,  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved.    When  cold,  strain  on  the  sugar,  add 
cream,  and  freeze.  Mrs.  John  T.  Smith. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

1  quart  of  milk,  1  pint  of  cream, 

i  pound  of  sugar. 
When  partly  frozen,  add  a  quart  of  berries  crushed  with  half  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Mrs.  E.  Lakin  Tompkiiis. 

Ice  Cream. 

3  pints  of  whipped  cream,  1  quart  of  scalded  milk, 

15  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  scant  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla, 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Allison. 


Strawberry  Ice  Cream. 

Sprinkle  1  cup  of  sugar  over  1  quart  of  strawberries  ;  mash  them  and  let 
them  stand  about  one-half  an  hour  ;  strain  through  cheese  cloth  ;  empty 
pulp  and  seeds  and  add  to  this  1  cup  of  milk  ;  mix  well  and  strain  ;  add  to 
strained  juice  1  pint  of  cream  and  1  cup  of  sugar  ;  freeze. 

B.  E.  W.  Conklin. 

Russian  Cream. 

I  of  a  package  of  Cox's  gelatine,     4  eggs, 

f  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  milk. 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  :  heat  the 
milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  the  gelatine,  add  the  yolks,  well  beaten  and  mixed 
with  the  sugar,  stirring  briskly  to  avoid  lumping.  Cook  2  or  3  minutes, 
then  set  off  and  stir  in  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  before  putting  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  into  moulds  and 
serve  ice  cold.     Will  not  be  ready  to  use  until  next  day. 

3Irs.  Benjamin  Hammond. 


so 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


A.  &  C.  F.  BRETT 


DRESS  GOODS,  SILKS, 
KID  GLOVES,  HANDKERCHIEFS, 

AND  A  LARGE  LINE  OF  CHILDREN'S  WEAR. 


We  endeavor  at  all  times  to  display  the  most  desirable,  the 
most  reliable,  and  the  newest  goods  to  be  found  in  the 
New  York  market.  Our  line  is  comprehensive.  As  new 
patterns  are  created,  the  best  and  most  conservative  styles 
are  selected.  Our  prices  are  guaranteed  to  be  the  lowest 
that  can  be  made  for  good  values. 


S.  M,  DAVIDSON 

MATTEAWAN,  N.  Y. 


Telephone  52-2 


We  have  constantly  in  stock: 


Portland  Cement, 

Rosendale  Cement, 

Plaster  Paris, 

Marble  Dust, 

Finishing  Lime, 

Canaan  Lime, 

King's  Windsor  Dry  Mortar, 

Plastering  Hair. 

Blasting  Powder, 

Fuse. 


r 


1 


LEHIGH, 
LACKAWANNA, 

PITTSTON, 
CARBONDALE, 
MINE  *'U''  COAL.     J    ^S^^"^^ 


Lumber  and 

Timber : 

Hemlock, 

Spruce, 

Pine, 

Cypress, 

Whitewood, 

North  Carolina  and 


The  Heath  Abdominal  Belt, 

The  Heath  Sanitary  Linen  Shields, 

The  Heath  Sanitary  Insoles. 

■ MANUFACTURED  BY 

MRS.   M.   HEATH, 

114  Fifth  Avenue,  NEW  YORK  CITY. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  87 

Lemon  Sherbet. 

The  juice  of  5  lemons,  1  pint  of  sugar, 

1  quart  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  Cox's  gelatine. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  little  of  the  water ;  boil  1  cupful  of  the  water  and 
dissolve  the  gelatine  in  it.  Mix  together  the  sugar,  water,  gelatine,  and 
lemon  juice,  and  freeze.     Small  pieces  of  juicy  orange  may  be  added. 

Miss  Spaight. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. 

A  pint  and  one-half  of  pineapple,  or,  if  fresh  fruit  is  used,  a  large  pine- 
apple, a  pint  of  sugar,  a  pint  of  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  gelatine.  Soak 
the  gelatine  one  hour  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Cut  the  heart  and 
eyes  from  the  fruit,  chop  it  fine,  and  add  to  the  sugar  and  the  juice  from 
the  can.  Have  half  of  the  water  hot,  and  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  it ;  stir 
this  and  the  cold  water  into  the  pineapple  ;  freeze.  This  sherbet  will  be 
white  and  cream  v.  Mi^s.  T.  I.  MacGlasson. 


Grape  Sherbet. 

2  pounds  of  Concord  grapes,  2  lemons, 

1  quart  of  water,  (about)  1  pound  of  sugar. 

Lay  a  square  of  cheese  cloth  over  a  large  bowl,  put  in  the  washed  grapes 
and  mash  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  masher  ;  squeeze  out  all  the  juice  and 
add  an  equal  amount  of  cold  water,  the  lemon  juice,  and  sugar.  If  neces- 
sary, add  sufficient  sugar  to  make  it  quite  sweet,  then  put  in  freezer  and 
freeze  as  usual.  K.  R.  W.  V. 


CAKE. 

Sugar  and  spice. 

And  everything  nice.     Nursery  Rhyme. 


Chocolate  Glace  Cake. 

Beat  to  a  cream  a  generous  half  cup  of  butter,  and  gradually  beat  into 
this  1  cup  of  sugar;  add  1  ounce  of  Baker's  chocolate,  melted,  also  2  un- 
beaten eggs  ;  beat  vigorously  for  five  minutes,  then  stir  in  ^  cup  of  milk, 
and  lastly  H  cups  of  flour,  in  which  has  been  mixed  1  generous  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  pour  into  a  but- 
tered, shallow  cake  pan,  and  bake  i  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

M7S.  Atwood. 

To  secure  lightness  of  texture  and  true  richness  of  flavor,  use  Chrisf/kiu's 
Superlative  Fioar  for  making  Cake. 


■SS  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Orange  Cake. 

,  2  cups  of  sug-ar,  |  cup  of  butter, 

1  cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour, 

whites  of  3  egj2:s,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

salt  and  flavoring. 

Flllmg, 

Rind  and  juice  of  1  orange,  1  cup  of  cold  water, 

1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,        yolk  of  1  egg, 

2  heaping  tablesp'nfulsof  sugar,   1  large  teaspoonfal  of  butter. 

Reta  I.  Tompkins. 

Nut  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  butter, 

i  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  3  eggs, 

1  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder.      If  cups  of  sifted  flour, 

1  large  cofTee  cup  of  nut  meats. 

Mrs.  Pitman. 


Nut  Drops. 

1  Q^^.  1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  nut  meats  chopped  fine,    3  tablespoonful s  of  flour, 
a  little  baking  powder  and  salt. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  on  buttered  tins  or  heavy  paper. 

Icing, 

1  cup  of  sugar,  \  of  a  cup  of  hot  water. 

Boil  until  it  strings  from  a  spoon,  but  do  not  stir.  Beat  stiff  the  white 
of  one  large  q^^.     Stir  slowly  the  sugar  into  the  Q:^%.     Flavor  if  desired. 

Miss  Spaight. 

White  Cake. 

i  cup  of  butter,  2  scant  cups  of  granulated  sugar  ;  cream  together  well. 
1  cup  of  milk,  3  scant  cups  of  pastry  flour,  1  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking  powder, 
the  whites  of  5  eggs.  Stir  in  2  cups  of  flour,  reserving  1,  in  which  mix  the 
baking  powder.  Put  eggs  in  last,  and  do  not  beat  after  mixing  them  in. 
Bake  in  loaf  or  layers.     Use  any  flavoring.  Mrs.  Atwood. 

Fig  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  \  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs, 
(whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  whites  added  last,)  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder.     Flavor  as  you  like  :  bake  in  tins,  6  x  10  inches,  3  layers. 

Filling  for  Fig  Cake, 

1  pound  of  figs,  chopped  fine ;  add  i  cup  of  hot  water,  a  scant  i  cup  of 
sugar.  Put  in  a  basin,  set  this  into  water,  and  boil  until  smooth  ;  spread 
between  the  layers.  ^-^i'^-  F.  H.  B. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  89 

Filling  for  Layer  Cake. 

1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  i  cup  of  chopped  walnut  meats, 

yolks  of  3  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt, 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Stir  all  and  turn  into  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  1  cup  of  sugar,  dissolved 
in  as  little  water  as  possible,  (about  4  tablespoonfuls,)  and  stir  until  cool. 
Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  for  frosting,  if  desired.    Mrs.  L.  W.  Stoteshury. 


Ice  Cream  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  flour, 

1  cup  of  cornstarch,  whites  of  8  eggs, 

2  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla. 

Filling, 

whites  of  4  eggs,  4  cups  of  granulated  sugar, 

i  pint  of  water,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  citric  acid, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  sugar,  and  boil  until  clear  and  until  it  will  candy 
in  water  ;  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  beat  until 
cold  and  a  stiff  cream.     Before  quite  cold  add  acid  and  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Isaac  31orton. 


Chocolate  Cake. 

\l  cups  of  sugar,  \  cup  of  butter,  i  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  a  level 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  1  cup  of  flour.  Mix  these  ingre- 
dients as  usual,  and  put  aside  while  preparing  the  following  mixture  :  i  of 
a  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  cut  up  and  melted  ;  add  i  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
yolk  of  1  egg,  to  the  melted  chocolate,  and  cook  until  thick  ;  then  add  to 
the  cake  mixture.  Bake  in  jelly  tins.  Use  white  icing  betw^een  the  cake 
and  on  the  top.  Miss  Riimsey. 


Pound  Cake. 

\\  cups  of  flour,  \\  cups  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  e^^i^,  1  cup  of  butter, 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour  together  ;  beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  very  liglit 
together  ;  then  put  all  together  and  beat  well.  Add  baking  powder  last. 
Add  a  little  salt  and  flavoring.  Miss  Broumell. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.—  See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


00  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Dried  Apple  Cake. 

Soak  3  cups  of  dried  apples  over  night  in  cold  water  enough  to  swell 
them  ;  chop  them  in  the  morning,  then  put  them  on  the  fire  with  2  cups  of 
molasses,  and  2  cups  of  sugar  ;  stew  them  until  soft ;  when  cold  mix  them 
with  : 

2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  butter, 

3  eggs,  1  large  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,            1  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 

1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound  of  currant-*, 

I  pound  of  citron,  1  wine  glass  of  brandy. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Pitman. 


Banana  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs,  3^  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  1  banana,  grated  and  stirred  into  the  cake.  Bake  the 
cake  in  layers.  Spread  each  layer  with  frosting,  and  on  top  of  each  layer 
spread  bananas,  shaved  very  thin.  Mrs.  William  Broivn. 


Pineapple  Cake. 

^  cup  of  butter,  cream  butter  ;  1  cup  of  sugar,  rub  up  with  butter  ;  ^  cup 
of  milk,  stir  in  alternately  with  the  flour  ;  2  cups  of  pastry  flour,  or  \  less  of 
other  flour ;  2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  added  last. 
3  layers. 

i  can  of  pineapple,  chopped  fine,  f  cup  of  liquor  from  the  can,  f  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  f  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Melt  the  butter  and  stir  in 
the  flour,  add  the  liquor  and  cook  until  thickened  ;  remove  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  pineapple.  Mary  E.  V.  Doaghty. 

Scripture  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter,  3^  cups  of  flour, 
3  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  raisins, 

2  cups  of  figs,  1  cup  of  water, 
1  cup  of  almonds,  6  eggs, 

1  tablespoonful  of  honey,  a  pinch  of  salt, 

spice  to  taste. 

Follow  Solomon's  advice  for  making  good  boys,  and  you  will  have  good 
cake.  Mrs.  Parsons. 


Chocolate  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour.  2  eggs,  ^  cup  of  butter,  \  cup  of  milk, 
i  cake  of  chocolate,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder,  (or  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar.)  Annie  L.  Brinckerhoff. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  91 

Boiled  Chocolate  Cake. 

i  cup  of  butter,  H  cups  of  sugar,  1  egg  and  the  yolk  of  another,  (reserve 
the  white  for  icing,)  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  i  of  a  cake  of  Baker's  choco- 
late dissolved  in  i  cup  of  boiling  water,    1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
i  cup  of  sour  milk,  li  cups  of  flour.    Bake  in  two  layers,  and  put  together- 
with  boiled  icing. 

JBoiled  Icing, 

1  teacupful  of  granulated  sugar,  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  water  ;  boil  until 
it  threads  from  the  spoon  ;  pour  slowly  into  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg, 
beating  all  the  time  until  it  gets  cold.  Mrs.  James  T.  Brett. 


Velvet  Sponge  Cake. 

1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  cream  together  ;  add  i  cup  of 
boiling  water,  stir  well ;  add  11  cups  of  flour,  into  which  has  been  sifted  1 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ;  lastly  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  stifif, 
salt  and  flavor.  Bake  in  shallow  pans  20  to  30  minutes.  Makes  good  layer 
cake.  Mrs.  Henry  D.  Jackson, 

Sunshine  Cake. 

whites  of  7  eggs,  yolks  of  5  eggs, 

1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  f  cup  of  flour, 

^  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,       a  pinch  of  salt. 

Sift,  measure,  and  set  aside  flour  and  sugar,  sifting  three  times.  Beat 
yolks  of  eggs  together  thoroughly,  and  after  washing  beater,  beat  whites 
about  half ;  add  cream  of  tartar,  and  beat  until  very  stiff  ;  stir  in  sugar 
lightly,  then  the  beaten  yolks,  thoroughly,  then  add  flour.  Put  in  tube 
pan,  and  place  in  oven  at  once.  Will  bake  in  35  to  50  minutes  in  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  Bertram  L.  Smith. 


Apple  Layer  Cake. 

2  teacupfuls  of  sugar,  i  teacupful  of  butter, 

3  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk, 

3  cups  of  flour,  2  teasp'nfuls  of  cream  tartar, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

4  sour  apples  grated  fine  ;  add  the  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  and  1  egg  ; 
sweeten  to  taste  ;  put  on  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  thoroughly.  This  will  make 
two  cakes  of  four  layers  each.     Put  together  while  hot. 

Miss  E.  Barnard. 

Silver  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  butter, 

3  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

whites  of  4  eggs,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

flavor  with  lemon.  Mrs.  Greene. 


92  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


ATKINS 


THE  PRUDENT  HOUSEKEEPER 

always  wants  the  best  of  Linens  at  the  lowest  cost. 

OUR    LINEN    SECTION 

is  the  place  for  her  to  frequent. 

Table  Linens,  Napkins, 

Kitchen  Towels,  Sheets, 

Hand  Towels,  Pillow  Cases. 

Our  aim  is  to  offer  nothing^  but  the  best. 


''The  Cash  Store,"     Fishkill-on-the-Hudson. 
FRED  ATKINS. 

Dean's  Monumental  Works, 

at  Fishkill,  near  the  old  Dutch  Church, 
has  been  established  over  50  years. 

To  parties  desiring  memorials  of  any  description  we 
respectfully  offer  our  services. 

J.  E.  &  R.  E.  DEAN. 

Be  Industrious,  be  Prudent,  and  Deposit  your  Surplus  Money  in  the 

Fishkill  Savings  Institute. 

Established  1857. 
Oldest  institution  for  savings  in  the  county,  outside  the  county  seat. 

F,  M,  Benjamin,  President.    James  E,  Dean,  Treasurer, 

The  Fishkill  Weekly  Times 

is  published  at  the  village  of  Fishkill, 
WEDNESDAY    MORNINGS. 

HERMAN  DEAN,   Editor  and  Publisher. 

$1  a  year,  in  adv^ance. 
Advertising  rates  furnished  on  application. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  93- 

Quick  Loaf  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  milk, 

5  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 

1  teaspoonf  ul  of  soda,  2  cups  of  raisins, 

1  nutmeg. 

Bake  about  one  hour.  This  makes  two  large  loaves.  Do  not  use  baking 
powder.  Can  add  citron,  which  improves  it.  Roll  raisins  in  flour  to  keep 
them  from  settling.  Miss  E.  Barnard. 

Marshmallow  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  f  cup  of  butter, 
whites  of  4  eggs,                                2^  cups  of  flour, 

2^  teasp'nfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  or  water, 
1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  2  layers. 

Fillhig, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  Cooper's  gelatine,  dissolved  in  8  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water  ;  stir  in  gradually,  1  pound  of  confectioner's  sugar,  and  beat 
i  hour.    Flavor  with  vanilla.    Spread  between  layers.  E.  B. 


Lemon  Cake. 

Blend  to  a  cream  1  cup  of  sugar  and  i  cup  of  butter  ;  add  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  separately,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon, 
and  i  cup  of  sweet  milk,  stirring  it  in  well.  Mix  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  through  1^  cups  of  flour,  stirring  the  mixture  until  it  is 
perfectly  smooth.  For  filling,  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
10  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  beaten  in  slowly,  and  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Make  a  soft  frosting  of  the  white  of  1  egg,  well  beat- 
en, and  4  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  M7's.  C.  F.  Brett. 

Coffee  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses, 

1  cup  of  cold  coffee,  1  cup  of  raisins, 

1  cup  of  currants,  1  cup  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  of  soda,  flour.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Brew. 


Coffee  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  cold  coffee, 

1  egg,  1  pound  of  raisins, 

1  pound  of  currants,  \  pound  of  citron, 

1  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoonful  of  mace,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

flour  to  make  stiff.  M.  L.  R. 


9A 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Use  Roberts  &  Wallace  Flavoring  Extracts, 


iai) 


as 

CO 

09 


The  Library  Pharmacy, 

ROBERTS   &  WALLACE. 


"The  Leading  Prescription  Drug  Store." 

Pure  Drugs  and  Chemicals, 
Fine  Soaps,  Perfumes  and  Toilet  Articles  of  all  kinds. 

The  correct  thing  in  Writing  Paper  and  Envelopes. 

Trusses  fitted  by  an  expert. 

Soda  Water  and  Cigars. 

Agents  for  Huyler's  Fine  Candies. 


CO 

9f> 


o> 


OP 


Use  Roberts  &  Wallace  Flavoring  Extracts. 

Dolly  Varden  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  |  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
1  cup  of  milk,                     3  eggs, 

3  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder, 

flavor  with  lemon. 
Bake  one-half  of  this  in  two  pans  ;  to  the  remainder  add  1  tablespoonful 
of  molasses,  1  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  i  cup  of  currants,  i  pound  of  citron, 
chopped  flne,   1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  cloves.    Bake  in  two  pans. 
Put  layers  together  with  jelly  or  icing.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Tompkins. 

Soft  Molasses  Cake. 

1  cup  of  molasses,  1  eg^.,  1  scant  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of 
soda  in  i  cup  of  hot  water  or  sour  milk,  1  cup  and  2  tablespoonf  uls  of  flour, 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Good  for  loaf  cake  or  with  chocolate  filling.  A  good 
layer  cake.  Mrs.  Henry  D.  Jackson. 

JAMES  WESLEY,  Sr., 

CARPENTER  &  BUILDER 

JOBBING   PROMPTLY  ATTENDED  TO. 


OFFICE  AND  SHOP  ON  SHAW  STREET, 
NEAR  FISHKILL  AVENUE. 


MATTEAWAN,  N.Y. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  95 

Cream  Nut  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  f  of  a  cup  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk, 

2i  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Fillifig* 

Heat  i  pint  of  milk  to  near  boiling,  and  stir  in  2  teaspoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch wet  with  cold  milk.  Take  out  a  little  and  mix  carefullj^  with  1 
beaten  e^^,  \  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  return  to  the  milk  and  boil, 
stirring  constantly.  Mix  1  cupful  of  chopped  walnuts  with  the  cream,  and 
spread  between  the  layers.  Ice  the  cake  and  place  half  meats  over  the 
cake.  Mrs.  Leander  Alsdorf. 

Sponge  Cake. 

\\  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs, 

li  cups  of  sugar,  li  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

2  teasp'nf  uls  of  lemon  or  vanilla,    ^  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately  until  light,  then  place 
them  together  and  beat  again  ;  sift  in  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time,  add  the 
flavoring,  and  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder  stirred  into  it ;  beat  all 
well  together,  and  at  the  very  last,  stir  in  the  hot  water.  Bake  in  1  loaf, 
in  a  well  buttered  tin,  for  |  of  an  hour.  Carolyn  A.  Corwin. 


Angel  Cake. 

Whites  of  11  eggs,  1^  cups  of  granulated  sugar  sifted  once,  1  cup  of  flour 
sifted  with  1  teaspoonf ul  of  cream  tartar  four  times,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  for  40  minutes.  When  done  invert  pan  on  two 
cups  and  let  it  stand  until  cold.  Mrs.  Isaac  Morton. 


Angel  Cake. 

Whites  of  9  large  fresh  eggs,  li  cups  of  sifted  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of 
flour  sifted  four  or  five  times,  i  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar,  a  pinch  of  salt 
added  to  eggs  before  beating.  Beat  eggs  about  one-half,  add  cream  tartar 
and  beat  very  stiff;  stir  in  sugar,  then  flour  very  lightly.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  35  to  50  minutes.  Mrs.  C.  W.  MePherson. 


Great  Grandmother's  Sponge  Cake. 

6  or  8  eggs,  the  weight  of  the  eggs  of  flour,  half  the  weight  of  sugar,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Beat  yolks  of  the  eggs  ;  add  sugar  and 
beat  again,  adding  lemon  juice  as  you  proceed.  Beat  the  whites  until  they 
will  stand  alone,  add  to  yolks  and  sugar,  then  stir  in  the  flour  lightly,  add- 
ing it  through  a  sifter.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.     Emily  De  W.  Seaman. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.—  See  the  Qas  Company  NOW. 


9(>  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Coffee  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar, 

2  cups  of  molasses,  l  cup  of  cold  coffee, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  )    .^x    -,  .  ,  •  .^i.  ^ 

i  teaspoonful  of  salt  \  ''^^^^  ^  *"^^"'  ^^*^  fl^""' 

1  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 

1  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 

i  cup  of  shredded  citron,  4  eggs,  well  beaten, 

4i  cups  of  sifted  flour. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  1  hour.  X.  E.  ^. 


Molasses  Cake  with  Cocoa. 

I  cup  of  butcer,  ^  cup  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  molasses,  1  egg, 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,      1  cup  of  boiling  water, 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 

about  2|  cups  of  flour. 
Do  not  make  it  stiff.    Bake  in  8  layers  with  cocoa  or  chocolate  between, 

Contributed. 

Soft  Gingerbread. 

1  cup  of  molasses,  |  cup  of  sugar, 

1  small  cup  of  melted  butter,         2  eggs, 

1  large  spoonful  of  ginger,  f  cup  of  milk,  or  boiling  water, 

li  spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,     1  spoonful  of  vanilla. 

Do  not  mix  stiff.    Bake  in  flat  tin  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  William  Gordon. 


Molasses  Cake. 

i  cup  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  butter,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  2  eggs 
well  beaten,  1  cup  of  molasses,  ^  cup  of  cold  water,  1  teaspoonful  of  gin- 
ger, i  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda  blended  with 
hot  water,  flour  enough  to  make  batter  the  consistency  of  cup  cake. 

L.  E.  B. 


Sponge  Cake. 

3  eggs,  the  yolks  beaten  with  f  of  a  cup  of  sugar.     Beat  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth,  then  thoroughly  with  the  yolks  and  sugar.     Mix  1  heaping  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder  with  one  cup  of  flour,  and  add  to  the  other  in 
gredients  ;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  immediately  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.     This  will  make  three  layers,  and  is  good  with  cream  filling. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Jaycox. 

Christian's  Flour  is  made  from  Hard  Spring  Wlieat  grown  on  virgin  soil. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  97 

Brioche. 

1  quart  of  flour,  1  lar^e  cup  of  butter, 

i  cup  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  i  cake  of  compressed  yeast, 

7  fine  eggs. 
Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the  blood-warui  water.  Warm  a  bowl  and  put  in 
it  1  cup  of  the  sifted  flour,  and  add  the  dissolved  yeast  to  this  ;  beat  well  ; 
cover  the  bowl  and  set  it  in  about  80  degrees,  until  the  sponge  is  doubled 
in  size.  It  will  take  at  least  an  hour.  Before  the  end  of  that  time  put  the 
salt,  sugar,  butter,  the  rest  of  the  flour,  and  3  eggs,  into  another  bowl ; 
mix  well  with  the  hand,  and  when  smooth,  add  the  other  4  eggs,  unbeaten, 
one  by  one.  Beat  the  paste  till  very  light  and  smooth,  then,  if  the  sponge 
is  ready,  add  that,  and  beat  more.  Now,  cover  the  bowl  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place  for  at  least  6  hours.  When  light  beat  it  again  and  set  it  on  ice 
for  10  or  12  hours,  then  it  will  be  ready  for  use.  Next  morning  divide  the 
paste  in  two,  roll  1  inch  thick,  tear  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  twist  inward, 
like  a  rope.  Work  very  quickly,  before  it  softens.  Let  it  rise  in  a  butter- 
ed pan  from  i  to  1  hour,  in  a  warm  place,  then  bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  When  partly  cooled,  pour  all  the  following  over  the  two 
loaves  :  2  cups  of  sugar,  li  cups  of  water  ;  boil  12  minutes,  stirring  occa- 
sionally, and  add  to  it  4  tablespoonfuls  of  rum  or  sherry.  Eat  warm  or 
cold.  In  summer  set  sponge  at  noon,  and  it  will  be  ready  at  bed  time  for 
the  ice.  Mrs.  Howell  White. 


Washington  Tea  Cake. 

i  cup  of  yeast,  or  i  cake  of  compressed  yeast ;  if  the  latter  is  used  make 
a  sponge  at  10  a.  m.  with  part  of  a  quart  of  flour,  and  part  of  a  cup  of  milk. 
At  noon  add  2  teaspoonf  uls  of  sugar,  the  rest  of  the  flour,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  melted  in  the  rest  of  the  milk,  and  2  eggs.  Let  it  rise  in  a  buttered 
pan  until  \  hour  before  supper.     When  baked  moisten  the  top  with  butter. 

Mrs.  Howell  White. 

Peanut  Cookies. 

1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  %\  cups  of  flour,  4  eggs,  ^  teaspoonful  of 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water,  2  quarts  of  nuts  rolled  fine,  nutmeg. 
Last  of  all  stir  in  the  nuts.  Pour  in  pans  and  spread  with  a  knife  ;  cut 
after  they  are  baked,  while  warm.     To  be  left  in  the  pan  till  cool. 

A.  M.  Davidson. 

Currant  Puffs. 

i  cup  of  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  3  eggs, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 

2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  currants  or  raisins. 

Steam  in  buttered  cups  i  hour.  Grace  M.  Dayton. 


To  have  tender,  flaky  crust  on  your  pies  use  CHRISTIAN'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR. 


OS  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Fruit  Cookies. 

3  egf?s,  2  cups  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 

1  cup  of  raisins,  chopped,  flour  to  thicken, 

cinnamon  and  salt. 

Grace  M.  Dayton. 


Small  Sugar  Cookies. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  f  cup  of  butter,  I  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  well  beaten, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  1  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Hoysradt. 

Molasses  Cookies. 

1\  cups  of  molasses,  i  cup  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  lard,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger, 

1  large  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Put  lard,  molasses,  salt,  ginger,  and  sugar,  on  the  stove  to  get  hot ;  put 
in  soda  when  hot  and  sift  in  flour.     Do  not  mix  stiff. 

Mrs.  B.  I.  D.  Roosa. 


Crullers. 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

2  cups  of  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 

a  little  salt,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
i  nutmeg.  [or  lard. 

Add  enough  flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  roll  out,  cut  in  form,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard.  Miss  Sarah  H.  Adriance. 


Cream  Cookies. 

1  cup  of  cream,  1  cup  of  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar, 

1  e^g,  butter,  \  size  of  an  eg^g, 

flour  sufficient  to  roll  out. 

Miss  Sarah  T.  Hills. 


Cookies. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  of  butter  or  lard,  1  cup  of  milk, 

3  teasp'nfuls  of  baking  powder,    flour  for  a  soft  dough. 

Miss  C.  C.  Phillips. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Eange.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  99 

Ginger  Snaps. 

1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar, 

2  cups  of  molasses,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  saleratus, 
flour  enough  to  roll  thin,  boil  the  molasses. 

Mrs.  James  T.  Brett. 


Fishkill  Ginger  Snaps. 

2  cups  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  shortening,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger,  3  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved  in  i  cup  of  boiling  water,  a  little  salt,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.     Roll  thin. 


Hermits. 

li  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs,  i  pound  each  of  raisins,  citron, 
and  currants,  teaspoonful  of  lemon,  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  enough  to 
roll  thin  like  cookies.  Miss  Grace  Barley. 


Tarts. 

Mix  1  pound  of  flour  with  |  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  bit  of  soda  the  size  of 
a  pea,  dissolved  in  hot  water  ;  beat  well  with  a  rolling  pin  ;  roll  thin  and 
bake  in  patty  pans,  wetting  the  tops  with  the  beaten  white  of  e^g,  and 
sprinkling  with  fine  sugar  before  baking.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  be- 
fore serving  put  jelly  in  centre  of  each  cake.  Miss  Grace  Barley. 


Cookies. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sour  cream, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 

flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Cream,  butter,  and  sugar  ;  stir  soda  in  the  sour  cream  ;  sift  baking  pow 
der  in  flour  ;  mix  all  together  in  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  handled. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  W.. 


Doughnuts. 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  sugar, 

1  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs, 

1  cake  of  yeast. 

Heat  the  butter,  sugar  and  milk  together  ;  stir  in  flour  the  yeast  and 
eggs.  Let  it  stand  until  morning,  then  add  \  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  mix. 
After  the  dough  becomes  light  roll  out  and  let  it  rise  again  before  boiling. 

E.  DiiBois. 

To  secure  lightness  of  texture  and  true  richness  of  flavor,  use  Christians' 
Superlative  Flour  for  luaking  Cake. 


100^ HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Aunt  Susie's  Crullers. 

7  ejjjgs,  well  beaten,  C  ounces  of  butter, 

14  ounces  of  light  brown  suj^ar,     1  teaspoonfui  of  cream  tartar, 
i  teaspoonfui  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
flavor  with  lemon,  enough  flour  to  roll  out. 

L.  E.  B. 

Hermits. 

^  3  eggs,  1  cup  of  butter, 

li  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  chopped  seeded  raisins, 

a  very  little  citron  chopped  fine,    1  teaspoonfui  of  cloves, 
1  teaspoonfui  oi  allspice,  1  teaspoonfui  of  cinnamon, 

flour  enough  to  roll  them. 

Cut  in  rounds.    These  are  very  nice  and  will  keep  like  fruit  cake.     A  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  a  ^  cup  of  water  will  improve  them. 

Mrs.  B.  I.  D.  Roosa. 


Sponge  Cake. 

1  pound  of  finest  granulated  or  powdered  sugar,  \  pound  of  sifted  flour, 
10  eggs,  grated  rind  of  2  lemons  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt, 
i  teaspoonfui  of  baking  powder,  (this  prevents  the  cake  from  falling  when 
first  taken  from  the  oven.)  Break  the  e^g  yolks  and  whites  separately  ; 
beat  the  yolks  to  a  creamy  froth,  the  whites  very  stiff.  Put  yolks  and 
whites  together  and  beat  until  blended,  then  add  the  sugar  slowly  ;  then 
add  the  lemon  rind  and  juice,  the  salt,  and  last  the  flour.  Whisk  together 
as  lightly  and  quickly  as  possible.  Bake  in  two  loaves.  The  oven  must 
be  a  moderate  heat.  Do  not  open  oven  door  for  at  least  10  minutes  after 
putting  in  cake.     Bake  for  35  minutes.  K.  R.  W.  V. 


Loaf  Chocolate  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  butter, 

i  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  cups  of  flour, 

i  cake  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  |  cup  of  boiling  water, 

1  teaspoonfui  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla, 

li  beaten  eggs,  using  the  remaining  i  for  the  icing. 

Mrs.  Ahram  Brett, 


Cure  for  Rheumatism  and  Bilious  Headache. 

Finest  Turkey  rhubarb,  half  an  ounce  ;  carbonate  magnesia,  one  ounce  ; 
mix  intimately  ;  keep  well  corked  in  a  glass  bottle.  Dose:  One  teaspoon- 
fui, in  milk  and  sugar,  the  first  thing  in  the  morning;  repeat  till  cured. 
This  has  been  tried  with  success. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Eange.—  See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  101 


PICKLES,  ETC. 


Cucumber  Pickles. 

Select  small  cucumbers  and  rub  them  well  with  a  damp  cloth.  Pack  in 
fruit  cans,  allowing  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  can.  Fill  the  cans 
with  cold  water  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain, 
put  five  or  six  allspice  in  each  can,  fill  with  scalded  vinegar,  and  seal  tight. 
If  the  vinegar  is  very  sour  add  a  little  sugar.  Mrs.  Henry  B.  Bevier. 


Cucumber  Pickles. 

Take  100  small  cucumbers  and  25  green  peppers  and  pour  over  them  a 
brine  made  from  a  pint  of  coarse  salt  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Pour  the 
hot  brine  upon  the  cucumbers.  Let  them  stand  24  hours.  Drain  and  wipe 
dry  ;  then  pour  upon  them  boiling  vinegar,  in  which  has  been  boiled 
"mixed  pickle  spices."  Cover  with  vinegar  and  put  horse  radish  leaves 
over  the  top  of  the  jar.  Mrs.  Conklin. 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickle. 

Select  yellow,  but  perfectly  firm  cucumbers  ;  peel  as  thin  as  possible  and 
scrape  out  seeds  and  soft  part  in  the  inside.  Take  the  firm,  fleshy  part, 
and  cut  into  inch  squares,  or  fanciful  shapes.  Soak  for  24  hours  in  strong 
vinegar  and  then  drain.  Make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  1  quart  of  vin- 
egar to  2  pounds  of  sugar  and  an  ounce  of  cassia  buds.  Put  the  cucumbers 
in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cover  them  with  the  syrup  ;  let  them  come  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point,  and  continue  to  cook  slowly  and  steadily  till  they  are 
transparent,  when  they  will  be  tender.  It  will  take  about  an  hour.  This 
will  make  an  acid  sweet  pickle  which  is  very  delicious  to  serve  with  meats, 
and  which  has  a  peculiar  flavor  of  its  own,  suggestive  of  an  East  India 
Chutney.     (Do  not  put  cassia  buds  in  bags.)  Mrs.  Briindage. 


Cucumber  Pickles. 

200  small  cucumbers  ;  put  them  in  a  large  butter  tub,  and  add  a  pound 
of  coarse  salt,  then  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Let  them 
stand  24  hours,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  re-heat  two  successive  morn- 
ings. The  fourth  morning  drain  off  the  brine  and  add  (dear  boiling  water, 
and  let  it  stand  24  hours.  If  not  plump,  cover  again  with  boiling  water  ; 
then  place  in  a  stone  jar,  and,  while  packing,  add  little  bags  containing 
whole  spices.  Soak  C  green  peppers  with  the  cucumbers.  Heat  enough 
vinegar  to  cover  them,  and  pour  on  while  hot.  Cover  tightly  and  they 
will  keep  hard  in  the  jar  all  winter.  Jeanette  E,  Westo7i. 

CHRISTIAN'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR  will  make  more  loaves,  and  better  bread, 
than  any  other  flour  on  the  market. 


lo2  hiqhlAnb  hospital  cook  book. 

Chopped  Pickle. 

1  gallon  of  chopped  cabbage,         1  gallon  of  chopped  green  tomatoes, 
1  quart  of  chopped  onions,  2  or  3  green  peppers. 

Sprinkle  salt  over  the  tomatoes  and  let  them  stand  a  few  hours,  then 
drain  off  water  and  add  other  ingredients,  also  : 

4  tbsp.  of  ground  mustard,  3  tbsp.  of  ground  ginger, 

-J      "     "       "         cloves,  1      "     "        "        mace, 

1      "     "        "         cinnamon,  2  pounds  of  sugar, 

3  ounces  of  tumeric  powder,  1  ounce  of  celery  seed. 

Mix  well,  cover  with  good  vinegar,  and  boil  until  cabbage  is  tender. 
Seal  hot.  M7S.  E,  J.  Joseph. 

Mustard  Pickles. 

2  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  2  quarts  of  cucumbers, 

2  quarts  of  onions,  2  cauliflowers, 

2  large  green  peppers. 
Chop  coarse  and  boil  until  tender  in  a  weak  brine,  then  drain. 

Faste, 

1  gallon  of  vinegar,  li  pounds  of  sugar, 

1  pound  of  mustard,  i  ounce  of  tumeric, 

1  large  cup  of  flour. 

Stir  the  paste  until  it  boils,  then  pour  over  the  vegetables. 

Miss  Clara  M.  Brownell. 


Mustard  Pickles. 

2  cauliflowers,  4  green  peppers, 

1  quart  of  small  white  onions,       1  quart  of  string  beans, 
1  quart  of  green  tomatoes,  12  cucumber  pickles. 

Let  them  stand  over  night  in  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  e^^  (all 
but  the  pickles);  scald  in  the  same  brine  in  the  morning. 

Paste. 

i  pound  of  mustard,  1  cup  of  flour, 

1  cup  of  sugar,  5  pints  of  vinegar, 

3  tablespoon fuls  of  tumeric. 

Heat  2  quarts  of  vinegar  to  scalding  ;  mix  the  paste  with  the  other  pint, 
stir  in  the  boiling  vinegar  a  few  moments,  stirring  all  the  while  to  keep  it 
from  burning.  Mrs.  Leander  Alsdorf. 

Pickled  Beans. 

Choose  the  wax  or  butter  beans.  Remove  the  strings  and  boil  until  ten- 
der, in  slightly  salted  water ;  take  from  the  kettle,  put  in  glass  cans  and 
cover  with  hot  vinegar,  diluted  and  sweetened.     Screw  cover  on  tight. 

X.  K.  B. 


Cook  Everything  on  a  G-as  Range.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIOHLANn  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOlC.  103 

Mixed  Pickles,  (Mustard.) 

1  quart  of  small  cucumbers,  1  quart  of  small  onions, 

1  quart  of  tomatoes,  1  cauliflower, 

3  red  peppers,  sliced. 
Scald  these  in  salt  water  ;  after  draining,  pour  on  them  hot  vinegar  ;  let 
this  stand  two  or  three  days,  then  throw  away  the  vinegar.  Take  I  pound 
of  English  mustard,  1  quart  of  vinegar,  or  enough  to  cover  them,  i  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  i  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  vinegar.  Boil  vinegar 
and  mix  flour  and  mustard,  add  to  vinegar  as  for  gravy,  then  throw  it  over 
the  pickle.  Miss  Agnes  B.  Thomson. 

Mixed  Pickles. 

1  quart  each  of  small  whole  cucumbers,  large  cucumbers  sliced  in  small 
pieces,  and  small  button  onions  ;  1  large  cauliflower  divided  into  flowerets, 
4  green  peppers  cut  fine.  Make  a  brine  of  4  quarts  of  water  and  1  pint  of 
salt ;  pour  it  over  the  mixture  of  vegetables  and  let  it  stand  24  hours.  Heat 
just  enough  to  scald  it,  and  turn  into  a  colander  to  drain.  Mix  1  cup  of 
flour,  6  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  tumeric 
powder,  with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  1  cup 
of  sugar  and  sufficient  vinegar  to  luake  2  quarts  in  all.  Boil  this  mixture 
until  it  thickens  and  is  smooth,  stirring  constantly ;  then  add  vegetables 
and  cook  until  well  heated  through.  L.  K.  B. 

Sliced  Tomato  Pickles. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  in  thick  slices,  rejecting  the  top  and  bottom  slices ; 
pack  them  \.  ith  a  sprinkling  of  salt  between  the  layers,  a  teacupf  ul  of  salt 
to  a  peck  of  tomatoes.  Let  them  stand  over  night ;  pour  off  the  liquor 
and  drain  them  well.  Scald  a  few  at  a  time  in  diluted  vinegar,  (do  not 
cook  much  or  they  will  break,)  drain,  and  when  cold  place  in  a  jar,  into 
suilicient  strong  vinegar  to  cover  them  ;  add  to  every  quart,  2  pounds  of 
sugar,  1  ounce  of  mustard  seed,  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  i  an 
ounce  of  whole  all^pice.  Heat  scalding  hot  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes. 
In  three  days  pour  off  the  vinegar,  pack  the  tomatoes  in  cans,  and  pour 
spiced  vinegar  over  them.  Mrs.  O.  H.  Vande  Water. 

Sweet  Pickled  Tomatoes. 

7  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes,  3  pounds  of  sugar, 

1  quart  of  vinegar,  |  ounce  of  ground  cloves, 

1  ounce  each  of  ground  cinnamon  and  allspice. 
Stew  several  hours  until  it  is  thick.  Miss  Barnard. 


Currant  Vinegar. 

Cover  the  currants  with  vinegar;  let  them  stand  nine  days ;  strain  off 
the  juice;  add  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice.  Heat  and 
skim,  then  cool  and  bottle.  Mrs.  P.  II.  Voshurfjh. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Q-as  Range.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


kU  HIQiHLANb  HOSPlTAt  C'Obk  iiOOtt. 

Chow  Chow. 

16  green  tdiilatdes,  1  head  of  cabbage, 

6  fcuciimbfel'S,  G  onions, 

3  peppers,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard  seed, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  or  1  head  of  celery. 
Chop  and  mix  together  ;   salt  and  press  over  night  ;  add  cold  vinegar  in 
the  morning  ;  do  not  cook  ;  put  in  cans.  Mrs.  G.  H.  Vande  Water. 

Chow  Chow. 

Chop  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  i  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  6  onions,  8  small 
heads  of  cabbage,  1  dozen  green  peppers  with  seeds  removed,  3  red  peppers 
with  seeds  removed,  1  bunch  of  celery  ;  sprinkle  all  with  salt  and  put  in  a 
coarse  bag  to  drain  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  it  in  a  porcelain  lined 
kettle  with  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  i  teacupful  of  grated  horse  radish,  1 
tablespoonful  each  of  ground  blaqk  pejjper,  mustard,  whole  white  mustard 
seed,  mace  and  celery  seed  ;  cover  with  vinegar,  boil  until  clear,  and  seal 
up  in  jars.     If  you  should  not  have  the  ripe  tomatoes,  green  ones  will  do. 

Mrs.  J.  JB.  Whitson. 

Chow  Chow. 
Ingredients. 

2  quarts  of  small,  fresh,  green  string  beans,  4  quarts  of  green  tomatoes, 
2  quarts  of  small  silver-skin  onions,  1  dozen  large  green  peppers,  i  dozen 
red  peppers,  1  dozen  small-sized  cucumbers,  50  very  small  green  pickles 
(cucumbers). 

Condiment. 

2  gallons  of  vinegar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  celery  seed,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  white  and  black  mustard  seed,  i  pound  of  ground 
English  mustard,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  tumeric  powder,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt,  f  of  a  cup  of  the  best  olive  oil. 

String  the  beans,  skin  the  onions,  chop  the  tomatoes  and  peppers,  cut 
the  cucumbers  an  inch  thick,  wash  and  drain  the  little  cucumbers.  Put 
on  1  gallon  of  vinegar,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  put  all  the  ingredients  in 
and  let  it  boil  10  minutes.  The  beans  should  be  boiled  15  minutes  before 
adding  with  the  other  ingredients.  Skim  all  out  of  the  vinegar  and  drain  ; 
throw  this  vinegar  away.  Now  put  on  a  fresh  gallon  of  vinegar,  with  this 
part  of  the  condiment  stirred  in  :  i  pound  of  the  mustard,  all  the  celery, 
white  and  black  mustard  seed,  the  salt  and  sugar  ;  then  add  all  the  ingre- 
dients and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Skim  all  out  and  put  back  in  the  kettle 
all  the  vinegar  that  drains  through.  Now  put  in  a  large  ,bowl  the  other 
i  pound  of  mustard  and  the  tumeric  powder ;  mix  with  the  oil  as  well 
as  possible  (it  will  seem  very  stiff,  but  it  is  all  right),  then  stir  this 
into  the  boiling  vinegar  ;  let  it  boil  three  or  four  minutes  ;  now  add  all  the 
ingredients,  and  give  it  a  good  stir.  Remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  and 
bottle  the  chow  chow  in  large-necked  jars  or  bottles  ;  cork  with  new  corks ; 
seal  with  two  parts  of  resin  and  one  part  of  beeswax,  melted  together  in  a 
little  tin  that  you  can  turn  the  neck  of  the  jars  in  ;  put  away  in  a  dry  place. 
This  is  a  fine  relish  to  serve  with  any  dinner.  L.  E.  B. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIQtiLANi)  IIOSPITAt  COOK  BOOk.  105 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

A  few  green  or  fair  sized  French  peppers  ;  take  off  the  tops,  take  out  the 
seeds,  wash  well  and  scald  ;  stuff  with  very  fine  uiinced  meat,  beef  or  lamb, 
mixed  with  a  trifle  of  onion,  or  onion  juice,  a  little  tomato  for  a  filling,  a 
little  cold  rice  or  bread  crumbs,  and  a  little  young  corn.  Stand  the  pep- 
pers up  in  a  pan  and  bake  an  hour,  basting  frequently.  Serve  very  hot 
with  a  sauce  around  them,  made  of  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes.  To  1  pint 
add  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  1  of  flour,  a  very  small  piece  of  onion, 
and  a  few  whole  cloves  ;  cook  the  tomatoes  10  minutes  with  onion  and 
cloves  ;  heat  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  add  the  flour  until  it  is 
smooth  and  brown,  and  then  stir  it  into  the  tomato  and  cook  2  minutes. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  trifle  of  vinegar  or  lemon,  and 
then  strain  through  a  sieve  tine  enough  to  keep  back  the  seeds. 

Mrs.  Draper. 


Chili  Sauce. 

Chop  24  large  tomatoes,  8  onions,  4  peppers  ;  4  tablespoonf  uls  of  salt,  3 
cups  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Cook  all  but  the  cinnamon 
slowly  for  two  hours.  Emma  Mase  Bontecou. 


Chili  Sauce. 

50  ripe  tomatoes,  25  onions, 

5  green  peppers,  1  bunch  of  celery. 

Chop  fine  and  add  3  pints  of  vinegar,  3  cups  of  sugar,  |  of  a  cup  of  salt, 
and  1  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  allspice.  Boil  about  2 
hours,  and  bottle  while  hot.  Mrs.  Edward  L.  Jaycox. 

Catsup  Without  Cooking. 

15  large  green  tomatoes,  4  red  peppers,  1  onion  ;  chop  all  finely  ;  1  cup  of 
sugar,  2icuiJS  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  each  of  ground  gin|b;er  and  cloves, 
3  tablespoonf  uls  of  salt.  Drain  off  the  tomato  juice  ;  pack  in  jars  without 
cooking  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  day  or  two.     Mrs.  W.  E.  Knight. 


Coffee  and  Indigestion. 

Coffee  lovers  who  find  their  favorite  beverage  hard  to  digest,  should 
drink  it  without  sugar  or  milk. 


To  Keep  Lemons. 

Cover  them  with  cold  water,  changing  it  every  week. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


iOG  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES, 


Chipped  Pears. 

8  pounds  of  f^jreen  pears,  chopped  fine,  6  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1 
tumbler  of  water,  i  pound  of  green  ginger  root,  3  lemons.  Put  the  sugar, 
water,  pears,  and  ginger  root  (sliced),  in  a  kettle  and  let  it  cook  very  slow- 
ly for  three  hours  ;  then  add  the  lemons  and  put  it  in  cans. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Tompkins. 

Spiced  Peaches. 

Pare  peaches  ;  make  a  syrup  of  6  pounds  of  sugar  and  i  pint  of  vinegar, 
for  12  pounds  of  peaches.     Use  only  cinnamon  buds  to  spice. 

Mrs.  Conklin. 

Spiced  Grapes. 

Take  the  pulp  from  the  fruit,  keeping  the  skins  ;  boil  the  pulp  and  put 
it  through  a  sieve  to  get  out  the  seeds  ;  then  add  the  skins  to  the  strained 
pulp.  To  every  7  pounds  of  grapes  add  4^  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  vine- 
gar. Spice  highly  with  ground  cloves  and  a  little  cinnamon.  This  keeps, 
and  is  delicious  with  cold  fowl  and  meats.  Mrs.  Willis  VanBuren. 


Orange  Marmalade. 

Select  best  Florida  oranges  ;  cut  them  in  two,  take  out  all  the  pulp  and 
juice  into  a  basin,  picking  out  the  skins  and  seeds.  Boil  the  rinds  in  hard 
water  till  tender ;  change  the  water  two  or  three  times  while  boiling ;  then 
grind  up  in  a  meat  chopper.  Add  to  it  the  juice  and  pulp,  then  put  all  in 
a  preserving  pan  with  double  its  weight  of  loaf  sugar,  and  set  over  a  slow 
fire  ;  boil  half  an  hour  or  more.  Put  into  pots ;  cover  tight  with  brandied 
paper.     Use  only  half  the  skins,  unless  you  want  it  very  strong. 

Contributed. 


Tomato  Aspic.    (For  12  people.) 

1  can  of  tomatoes  ;  strain  and  put  in  saucepan  with  1  slice  of  onion,  2  bay 
leaves,  a  few  celery  tops,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per. Let  it  boil  for  a  moment,  and  then  add  f  of  a  box  of  gelatine  which 
has  been  soaked  for  half  an  hour  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Mix  until 
dissolved  ;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  strain  again.  Pour  into  small 
moulds.  When  time  to  serve,  dip  each  mould  quickly  into  boiling  water 
and  turn  the  contents  on  a  lettuce  leaf.     Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mrs.  T.  I.  MacQlasson. 

"Perfect"  Champion  Peas  are  equal  to  those  from  your  own  garden. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  l07 

Apple  Ginger. 

8  pounds  of  apples,  8  pounds  of  sugar, 

rind  of  8  and  juice  of  2  lemons,      I  pound  of  green  ginger,  grated, 
1  quart  of  water. 
Chop  the  apples  fine  ;  put  all  together  but  the  sugar  and  water,  which 
put  on  the  fire,  and  after  having  boiled  five  minutes,  add  the  apples  and 
other  ingredients.     Fine  for  filling  for  sandwiches.      Miss  Grate  Barley. 

Cooking  Dried  Fruit. 

Wash  the  fruit  well  and  put  it  to  soak  in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the 
morning  put  it  on  to  cook  in  the  same  water  in  which  it  has  soaked,  cook- 
ing slowly  until  done.  Add  the  sugar  about  twenty  minutes  before  remov- 
ing from  the  stove.  Mrs.  J.  B.  W. 

For  Canning  Berries. 

Wash  the  berries  and  pack  them  in  cans,  as  many  as  possible  in  a  can. 
Turn  the  cans  upside  down  to  drain.  Make  a  thick  syrup  of  sugar  and 
water  ;  pour  over  the  berries  ;  fill  the  cans  full  and  seal.  Have  a  boiler  of 
boiling  hot  water  and  set  the  cans  in  the  water  up  to  the  rubbers.  Cover 
the  boiler  with  the  lid  and  let  them  remain  there  until  the  water  is  cold. 

Mrs.  Henry  B.  Bevier. 

How  to  Cook  California  Prunes. 

To  1  pound  of  prunes,  thoroughly  washed  in  several  waters  and  drained, 
add  2^  pints  of  cold  water,  and  allow  them  to  soak  24  to  36  hours.  Then 
place  them  in  a  granite  saucepan  and  simmer  gently  1  hour,  in  the  same 
water  they  were  soaked  in,  keeping  closely  covered.  A  few  minutes  before 
removing  from  the  fire,  add  a  scant  half  cup  of  sugar  and  allow  it  to  boil 
up  well ;  then  turn  into  a  suitable  dish  for  serving  and  keep  covered  until 
cool.     Try  this  and  it  will  repay  you  for  your  trouble.  Contributed. 

Table  Jelly. 

To  make  2  quarts  of  jelly  use  2  ounces  of  gelatine,  li  pounds  of  sugar, 
the  juice  of  4  lemons,  and  a  little  stick  of  cinnamon.  Soak  together  for  10 
minutes  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  ;  add  to  this  3  pints  of  boiling  water,  and 
stir  until  the  gelatine  and  sugar  are  all  dissolved  ;  then  strain  through  a 
jelly  bag,  pour  into  jelly  moulds,  and  set  aside  to  cool.     3fr.s.  Howard  Scofield. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

Strain  the  liquor  from  1  can  cf  tomatoes,  place  it  over  the  fire  and  bring 
it  to  the  boiling  point.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  i  of  a  box  of 
gelatine,  soak  for  i  an  hour,  then  pour  boiling  liquor  over,  and  pour  into  a 
shallow  pan  to  harden.  When  ready  to  serve,  cut  in  cubes,  pile  on  a  bed 
of  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  over  it  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Mrs.  W.  E.  Knight. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Qas  Range.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


ios  BtQHLANb  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Tomato  Jelly. 

\  can  or  2  cupfuls  of  tomatoes,  3  cloves,  1  bay  leaf,  1  slice  of  onion,  I  box 
or  I  ounce  of  Cooper's  gelatine,  soaked  in  i  cup  of  water.  Put  it  in  a  ring 
mould  and  let  it  set.  When  wanted  for  table,  turn  it  out  on  a  plate  and 
fill  the  centre  with  celery  and  mayonnaise ;  put  leaves  of  lettuce  around 
the  outside.  Boil  together  the  tomatoes,  spices  and  onion,  until  the  toma- 
toes are  soft,  then  add  the  soaked  gelatine  and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is 
dissolved  ;  then  strain  into  mould.  ^.  (^>  H- 

Lemon  Jelly. 

i  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover,  for  15  min- 
utes ;  then  add  to  this  2  teacups  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  3  lemons,  some 
sticks  of  cinnamon  if  you  wish  ;  then  pour  over  this  mixture  a  quart  of 
boiling  water.  Stir  it  up  well  and  add  the  juice  of  the  lemons ;  taste  and 
strain.  M.  L.  R. 

Cranberry  Jelly. 

To  1  quart  of  berries  add  i  pint  of  water  ;  cook  until  fruit  is  tender,  then 
strain  through  a  flannel  cloth.  Add  1  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice, 
and  cook  ten  minutes.  Mrs.  Edgar  A.  Shook. 

Wine  Jelly. 

2  ounces  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  cold  water ;  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  cut  thin. 
Let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  the  juice  of  3 
lemons,  H  pounds  of  sugar.  Stir  until  all  is  dissolved,  then  strain  through 
a  flannel  bag  into  a  mould.  Contributed. 

Fruit  Jelly. 

Wet  your  mould  with  cold  water,  pour  in  a  little  wine  jelly,  then  some 
sliced  bananas,  oranges,  English  walnuts,  grapes,  or  any  fruit  you  wish  ; 
pour  on  more  jelly,  then  fruit,  and  so  on  until  the  mould  is  filled. 

Co7itributed. 

Unfermented  Grape  Juice. 

Nearly  cover  grapes  with  cold  water  ;  heat  slowly  (mashing)  until  juice 
is  freed  ;  drain  ;  measure  juice  ;  add  f  of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  to  one 
quart  of  juice  ;  boil  four  minutes  ;  bottle  and  seal. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  McPherson. 

Cherry  Bounce. 

4  quarts  of  wild  cherries  ;  3  pounds  of  sugar  boiled  with  3  pints  of  water 
and  poured  on  the  cherries  while  hot  (not  so  hot  as  to  break  the  jug);  when 
cold  pour  on  4  quarts  of  white  brandy.  (Some  use  apple  jack.)  Gather 
cherries  in  August.  ^^^^  Hattie  Rumsey. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  109 

Raspberry  Shrub. 

4  quarts  of  red  raspberries  to  1  quart  of  vinegar  ;  let  it  stand  4  days,  then 
strain.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  1  pound  of  sugar  ;  boil  30  minutes  ;  bot- 
tle, and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  When  served,  allow  I  cup  of  syrup  to  | 
cup  of  ice  water.  Should  the  syrup  be  too  thin,  do  not  adhere  to  this  pro- 
portion of  water.  E.  B. 

Elder  Blow  Wine. 

1  quart  of  elder  blossoms,  3  gallons  of  water, 

9  pounds  of  sugar,  1  compressed  yeast  cake, 

3  pounds  of  raisins,  1  lemon, 

the  white  of  1  egg. 
Heat  sugar  and  water  together  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  take  it  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  blossoms  ;  when  cool,  add  the  yeast,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice,  and  the  egg  ;  put  in  a  jar,  and  stir  every  day  for  9  days  ;  strain,  and 
put  in  a  cask  with  3  pounds  of  chopped  raisins  ;  in  G  months  bottle  ;  draw 
it  off  very  carefully.  Mrs.  Henry  B.  Bevier. 


CANDIES. 

'Sweets  to  the  sweet."       Shakespeare. 


Huyler's  Fudge. 

If  pounds  of  C  sugar,  i  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate, 

1  cup  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Mix,  and  boil  just  8  minutes  :  remove  from  the  stove,  and  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  vanilla  extract  ;  beat  well  for  15  minutes  ;  pour  into  buttered  tins 
and  let  it  harden.  Mrs.  ConJdin. 

Nut  Candy. 

Put  into  a  hot  spider  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar  ;  shake  constantly  until 
it  is  melted  and  free  from  lumps;  then  put  in  a  little  flavoring,  and  pour 
into  it  one-half  cup  of  chopped  nut  meats.  Mrs.  C.  F.  Brett. 

Cream  Maple  Sugar, 

2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  cream.  Put  the  sugar  and  a  little  of  the  cream 
in  a  kettle,  and  dissolve;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  cream,  a  walnut-sized 
bit  of  butter,  and  boil  until  it  is  done  ;  then  take  it  off  and  beat  until  cold. 
Put  in  pans  and  mark  in  inch  squares.  Con tr United. 

CHRISTIAN'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR  will  make  more  loaves,  and  better  bread, 
than  any  other  flour  on  the  market. 


no  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Pe-No-Che. 

6  cups  of  brown  siij?ar,  1  cup  of  milk  ;  boil  10  minutes,  then  take  it  from 
the  stove  and  stir  in  1  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla  ;  beat  to  a  cream,  and,  before  it  is  too  stiff,  pour 
into  a  pan  ;  cut  into  caramels.  Mrs.  C.  F.  Brett. 

Pralines. 

3  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  1  small  teacupful  of  syrup  (corn  syrup), 
butter  tVie  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  water  to  dissolve  the  sugar.  Boil  the  mix- 
ture until  it  strings  ;  scir  in  3  coffee  cups  of  nuts  ;  pour  on  buttered  plates 
as  soon  as  it  creams.  You  ujay  have  to  stir  the  hot  mixture  a  good  deal 
before  it  creams,  but  after  the  nuts  are  put  in  it  must  not  be  stirred,  i  cup 
of  cream  improves  it.  Mrs.  Doughty. 

Pop  Com  Balls. 

Boil  1  coflFee  cup  of  molasses  until  it  hardens  in  water,  then  pour  on  about 
3  quarts  of  popped  corn,  and  form  quickly  into  balls.     Cornelia  B.  Davis. 


Chocolate  Cocoanut. 

1  pound  of  granulated  sugar,  milk  of  1  cocoanut ;  boil  5  minutes  ;  add  1 
grated  cocoanut,  and  boil  20  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Pour 
on  buttered  tins,  and  when  cool,  cut  into  small  squares  ;  dip  these  in  Huy- 
ler's  chocolate,  melted  in  a  cup  set  in  boiling  water.  If  not  thin  enough, 
add  a  little  melted  suet.    Drop  on  waxed  paper.  Cornelia  B.  Dams. 

Walnut  Macaroons. 

White  of  1  egg  beaten  stiff,  i  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  1  cup  of  chopped 
walnuts ;  flavor  with  vanilla ;  bake  15  or  20  minutes.     Cornelia  B.  Davis. 

Chocolate  Creams. 

To  the  white  of  1  e^^  add  an  equal  quantity  of  water  ;  stir  in  I  pound  of 
confectioner's  sugar  ;  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  stir  with  the  hand  until  very 
fine  ;  then  mould  into  balls  and  drop  in  melted  chocolate ;  set  away  to  cool. 

3Iiss  Mapes. 

Crearh  Candy. 

1  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  i  pint  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 
Boil  as  molasses  candy,  but  do  not  stir.     Work  in  vanilla  as  you  pull. 

Miss  Mapes. 

Honey  Candy. 

3  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  honey.  Boil  until  fit 
for  pulling.  Miss  Mapes. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.— See  the  G-as  Company  NOW. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  Ill 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

1  cup  of  molasses,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  I  pound  of  chocolate. 
Boil  20  minutes.  Miss  Mapes. 

Nut  Candy. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  i  cup  of  milii.      Boil  10  minutes,  then  beat  until  white, 
adding  nuts  and  vanilla.     Spread  on  tins  to  cool.  Miss  Mapes. 


Lemon  Drops. 

Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  taking  care  to  reject  the 
seeds.  Add  a  pinch  of  tartaric  acid,  and  stir  in  confectioner's  sugar  until 
stiff  enough  to  form  into  small  balls.  Miss  Mapes. 


Taffy. 

6  cups  of  white  sugar,  1  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  water.  Boil  without 
stirring  for  \  hour.  When  done,  stir  in  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Miss  Mapes. 


CLIPPINGS. 

"You  pays  your  money  and  takes  your  choice." 


Leben. 

To  \  pint  of  blood  warm  sweet  milk  add  1  yeast  cake.  Put  it  in  a  glass 
fruit  jar,  without  cover,  excepting  a  wet  cloth,  which  may  be  wrapped 
around  the  jar.  Let  it  stand  for  24  hours  where  the  temperature  is  70", 
stirring  occasionally.  Add  6  tablespoonfuls  of  this  to  i  pint  of  blood  warm 
sweet  milk,  and  let  it  stand  24  hours,  covered  as  above.  Repeat  this  5  times, 
then  add  6  tablespoonfuls  of  this  to  1  quart  of  blood-warm  milk.  Cover  as 
before,  and  keep  it  where  the  temperature  is  70°.  In  from  9  to  12  hours  it 
will  be  of  the  consistency  of  a  baked  custard,  and  is  ready  for  use,  and  it 
must  then  be  kept  in  a  cold  place.  Beat  it  thoroughly,  before  eating.  If 
wheyed,  it  is  only  fit  to  use  for  making  fresh.  B.  E.  W.  Conklin. 

A  Healthful  Appetizer. 

How  often  we  hear  women  who  do  their  own  cooking  say  that  by  the 
time  they  have  prepared  a  meal,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  table,  they  are  too 
tired  to  eat.  One  way  to  mitigate  this  is  to  take,  about  half  an  hour  before 
dinner,  a  raw  e^^,  beat  it  very  light,  put  in  a  little  sugar  and  milk,  flavor- 
ing, if  you  like,  and  "drink  it  down."  It  will  remove  the  faint,  tired  out 
feeling,  and  will  not  spoil  your  appetite  for  dinner. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Range.— See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


1^'  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 


Koumyss. 

A  very  aerreeable  drink,  which  is  specially  recommended  for  persons  who 
do  not  properly  assimilate  their  food,  and  may  be  drank  by  young  children 
as  freely  as  nn'lk.  Take  1  quart  of  cow's  milk,  unskimmed,  and  heat  to  a 
temperature  of  100%  not  beyond.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  i  of  a 
cake  of  Fleischmann  &  Co.'s  compressed  yeast.  Pour  into  thoroughly  clean 
bottles,  which  should  be  filled  to  within  2  inches  of  the  top.  Cork  tightly, 
tie  in  the  corks,  and  let  the  bottles  stand  in  a  warm  place  12  hours.  Then 
put  them  on  ice,  or  in  a  cold  place.  When  cold  the  koumyss  is  ready  for 
use. 

To  Remove  Iron  Mould  from  Linen. 

Rub  the  stains  over  with  lemon  juice,  sprinkle  thickly  with  fine  salt,  and 
place  in  the  sun  a  few  hours.     This  will  remove  ink  stains  as  well. 


Washing  Fluid. 

1  pound  of  Babbitt's  potash,  1  ounce  of  salmonich,  1  ounce  of  salts  of 
tartar.  Pour  4  quarts  of  boiling  water  on  the  potash  ;  let  it  cool ;  put  in 
the  other  ingredients,  and  bottle. 

For   Washinr/, 
1  cup  of  fluid  to  3  pails  of  boiling  water.    Shave  in  a  little  soap.    Put  the 
clothes  in,  and  boil  10  minutes.     Dip  clothes  first  in  cold  water. 

Mrs.  Parsons. 


Smooth  Sad-irons. 

To  have  your  sad-irons  clean  and  smooth,  rub  them  first  with  a  piece  of 
wax  tied  in  a  cloth,  and  afterwards  scour  them  on  a  paper  or  thick  cloth 
strewn  with  coarse  salt. 

Anti- Dyspeptic  Biscuits. 

The  following  recipe  and  remarks  are  from  "Aunt  Annie,"  the  famous 
Vermont  housekeeper.  She  says :  "I  have  made  these  biscuits  tuany  a 
time  for  poor,  half  starved  creatures  who  had  not  been  able  to  digest  even 
the  simplest  food  for  weeks,  and  I  have  never  yet  seen  the  person  who  had 
the  slightest  trouble  in  taking  care  of  them.  Milk,  you  know,  is  the  rank- 
est poison  to  some  stomachs,  and  there  is  no  milk  in  these  biscuits,  and 
very  little  of  what  I  call  'pulp,'  or  'wads  of  dough.'  Sift  a  quart  of  flour 
two  or  three  times,  into  which  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  has  been  thrown. 
Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  rub  well  into  the  flour. 
Then  dissolve  the  larger  half  of  a  Fleischmann's  yeast  cake  in  a  little 
tepid  water,  and  stir  in  ;  add  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Roll  to  thin  cookie  thickness  and  cut  out.  Place  two  together,  separating 
only  by  tiny  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  a  rich  brow^n  in  a  pretty  hot  oven.  I 
will  guarantee  them  to  be  crisp,  delicious  and  digestible." 

Christian's  Flour  is  made  from  Hard  Spring  Wheat  grown  on  virgin  soil. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  113 

Something  About  Making  Soap. 

I  have  a  stone  jar  for  frying  fat  and  a  few  five-pound  lard  cans  for  soap 
grease.  All  the  beef  fat  is  clarified  and  strained  into  the  stone  jar;  all  mut- 
ton and  other  kinds  of  fat  for  which  I  have  no  other  use  are  strained  into 
the  tin  cans.  When  a  can  is  full  I  put  it  aside  and  begin  with  another. 
When  I  have  three  canfuls  I  make  the  soap  in  this  way:  Three  canfuls  of 
clarified  soap  grease  (fifteen  pounds)  is  put  on  the  back  part  of  the  range, 
that  it  may  melt  slowly.  Babbitt's  potash  from  three  one-pound  cans  is 
put  into  a  large  earthen  or  stone  bowl  or  jar.  Upon  this  is  poured  three 
quarts  of  cold  water,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax  is  added. 
This  mixture  is  stirred  with  a  wooden  stick  until  the  potash  is  dissolved, 
then  it  stands  until  cold. 

When  the  fat  is  melted,  pour  it  into  a  butter  tub.  It  must  not  be  hot 
when  the  potash  Is  added;  should  it  be,  it  must  stand  until  so  cold  that  it 
will  hardly  run  when  poured.  When  the  potash  mixture  is  perfectly  cold 
pour  it  in  a  thin  stream  into  the  fat,  stirring  all  the  while.  When  all  has 
been  added,  continue  stirring  for  about  ten  minutes,  when  the  soap  should 
begin  to  look  thick  and  ropy.  At  this  stage  pour  it  into  a  box,  having  it 
about  three  or  four  inches  deep.  Let  it  stand  a  few  hours;  then  cut  it  into 
bars,  and  the  bars  into  pieces  of  a  convenient  length  for  handling.  It  will 
still  be  very  soft,  and  should  not  be  removed  from  the  box  for  at  least  two 
days.     It  will  be  hard  and  white. 

If  you  attempt  to  combine  the  fat  and  potash  mixture  while  the  latter 
is  at  all  warm  it  will  take  a  long  time  to  make  the  soap,  and  the  result  will 
not  be  so  satisfactory.  It  is  well  to  put  paper  under  th€r«oap  tub  and  the 
bowl  in  which  the  potash  is  prepared.  Remember  that  potash  is  very 
strong,  and  do  not  spatter  it  on  yourself  or  on  the  floor. 

The  Useful  Bran  Bag. 

No  bath  room  is  complete  without  its  complement  of  bath  bags.  These 
are  made  of  the  coarsest  possible  butter  cloth,  doubled,  to  keep  it  from 
breaking.  They  have  a  draw  string  and  can  be  easily  emptied.  If  filled 
with  a  quart  of  bran,  a  most  excellent  thing  to  tone  up  the  skin  and  to 
promote  a  good  circulation  of  the  blood,  a  teaspoonful  of  orris  root— this 
for  perfume— and  half  a  cake  of  white  castile  soap,  chopped  very  fine,  a 
splendid  skin  tonic  is  secured.  The  object  of  confining  the  bran  in  the 
bag  is  to  prevent  the  pipe  that  carries  the  water  away  from  being  plugged 
up.  After  a  month  of  such  a  daily  bath  the  skin  will  be  white,  clean  and 
as  smooth  as  polished  marble. 

New  Kettles. 

The  best  way  to  prepare  a  new  iron  kettle  for  use  is  to  fill  it  with  clean 
potato  pealings,  boil  them  for  an  hour  or  more,  then  wash  the  kettle  with 
hot  water;  wipe  it  dry,  and  rub  it  with  a  little  lard;  repeat  this  rubbing 
for  half  a  dozen  times  after  using.  In  this  way  you  will  prevent  rust  and 
all  the  annoyances  liable  to  occur  in  the  use  of  a  new  kettle. 

CHRISTIAN'S  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR  will  make  more  loaves,  and  better  bread, 
than  any  other  flour  on  the  market. 


lU  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

What  to  Have  in  a  Sewing  Room. 

A  correspondent  sends  the  description  of  a  ''nearly  perfect  sewing  room" 
that  will  be  of  interest  to  many,  as  the  convenience  of  such  a  nook  can 
hardly  be  over-rated.  It  saves  many  weary  steps  in  hunting  for  thread, 
thimble,  etc.,  and  saves  the  family  sitting-room  from  being  a  resting  place 
for  the  sewing.  This  room  is  8  x  12  feet,  with  two  windows  and  a  small 
closet.  In  front  of  one  window  stands  the  sewing  machine,  which  has  one 
end  of  its  cover  cushioned  to  use  as  a  footstool.  On  the  right  is  a  row  of 
foot-wide  shelves  running  almost  the  width  of  the  room.  One  shelf  is  for 
the  family  medicines,  the  others  hold  all  the  sewing  paraphernalia  in  boxes 
having  the  projecting  ends  labeled.  They  can  be  read  from  the  sewer's 
seat  at  the  machine,  and  are  within  easy  reach.  Patterns,  left  over  pieces^ 
buttons,  trimmings,  etc.,  all  have  boxes  and  are  kept  in  them.  Below  the 
shelves  is  a  low  cutting  table  always  ready  for  use.  A  sewing  chair  with- 
out arms  and  having  short  rockers,  is  handy,  and  a  str'aight  chair  for  ma- 
chine use.  In  one  corner  is  a  dress  form,  and  in  the  other  corner  is  a  long 
narrow  mirror,  which  shows  the  effect  when  fitting  on  the  form.  By  the 
door  three  hooks  are  screwed  from  which  hang  a  well-filled  pin-cushion^ 
pattern  book  and  slate  and  pencil.  On  the  slate  goes  every  want  of  the 
family  in  the  sewing  line  as  it  is  thought  of.  The  cost  of  fitting  up  such  a 
room  is  small,  as  the  window  has  a  buff  blind,  and  a  rug  for  the  feet  is  the 
only  floor  covering,  but  the  convenience  and  comfort  of  such  a  place  is  un- 
bounded. 

A  Delicious  Cough  Candy. 

A  delightful  cough  candy  is  made  from  the  following  receipt,  and  will  be 
found  a  most  agreeable  medicine  as  well  as  beneficial  to  all  who  use  their 
voices  and  are  troubled  with  throat  affections  :  Break  up  a  cupful  of  slip- 
pery elm  bark  ;  let  it  soak  an  hour  or  two  in  a  cupful  of  water.  Half  fill  a 
,cup  with  fiax  seed,  and  fill  up  to  the  brim  with  water,  leaving  it  to  soak 
the  same  time  as  the  slippery  elm.  When  you  are  ready  to  make  the  candy, 
put  one  pound  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar  in  a  porcelain  stew-pan  over  the 
fire  ;  strain  the  water  from  the  flax  seed  and  slippery  elm  and  pour  over  it. 
Stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to  boil  and  turn  back  to  sugar.  Then  pour 
it  out,  and  it  will  break  up  into  small  crumbly  pieces.  A  little  lemon  juice 
may  be  added  if  desired.    Be  sure  to  use  the  same  measuring  cup. 

Cubeb  Berries  for  Catarrh. 

A  remedy  for  catarrh  is  crushed  cubeb  berries  smoked  in  a  pipe,  emitting 
the  smoke  through  the  nose  ;  after  a  few  trials  this  will  be  easy  to  do.  If 
the  nose  is  stopped  up  so  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  breathe,  one  pipe- 
ful will  make  the  head  as  clear  as  a  bell.  For  sore  throat,  asthma,  and 
bronchitis,  swallowing  the  smoke  effects  immediate  relief.  It  is  the  best 
remedy  in  the  world  for  offensive  breath,  and  will  make  the  most  foul 
breath  pure  and  sweet.  Sufferers  from  that  horrid  disease,  ulcerated 
catarrh,  will  find  this  remedy  unequaled,  and  a  month's  use  will  cure  the 
most  obstinate  case.  A  single  trial  will  convince  anyone.  Eatipg  uncrush- 
ed  berries  is  also  good  for  sore  throat  and  all  bronchial  complaints.  After 
smoking,  do  not  expose  yourself  to  cold  air  for  at  least  fifteen  minutes. 


HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK.  115 

Cholera  Remedy. 

It  is  well  to  keep  in  the  medicine  chest,  or  where  they  may  easily  be 
found,  a  bottle  of  spirits  of  camphor,  and  one  of  the  old  standard  remedy 
known  as  the  "Sun  Mixture,"  the  prescription  published  by  the  New  York 
"Sun,"  under  official  direction,  in  the  time  of  the  great  cholera  epidemic. 
This  medicine  is  not  expensive,  and  can  be  bought  of  any  druggist  in  coun- 
try, town  or  city.  Experienced  bacteriologists  say  that  five  drops  of  cam- 
phor in  a  small  glass  of  brandy  is  the  best  medicine  to  give  until  the  ar- 
rival of  a  physician.  For  little  children  there  are  camphor  pellets  sufficient- 
ly sweet  to  be  palatable.  The  use  of  these  pellets  is  said  to  be  an  excel- 
lent "ounce  of  prevention"  for  those  acting  as  nurses  or  otherwise  exposed 
to  contagion. 


A  Good  Cure  for  Colds. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  flaxseed  in  one  quart  of  water  ;  strain,  and  add  two 
ounces  of  rock  candy,  one-half  pint  of  honey,  juice  of  three  lemons  ;  mix, 
and  let  all  boil  well ;  let  it  cool,  and  then  bottle  it.  Lose  :  One  cupful  on 
going  to  bed,  one-half  cupful  before  meals.  The  hotter  you  drink  it  the 
better. 


To  Clarify  Suet. 

Put  the  suet  in  a  pan  with  a  teacupful  of  water  to  each  pound  of  suet. 
The  water  evaporating  through  the  fat  will  carry  off  all  impurities  which 
do  not  settle  to  the  bottom.  When  the  water  is  all  gone  pour  the  clear  fat 
into  a  dish,  and  when  cool  wrap  in  paper  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  When 
frying  batter  cakes,  use  to  grease  the  griddle,  a  bit  of  beef  suet  or  fat  salt 
pork  tied  into  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  clean  cotton  cloth. 


Disagreeable  Odors. 

To  absorb  disagreeable  odors  in  a  sick  room  nothing  is  better  than  cas- 
carilla  bark  sprinkled  upon  hot  coals.  For  an  ordinary  disinfectant  rosin 
is  excellent. 


A  Cleansing  and  Renovating  Polish. 

Take  of  olive  oil,  1  pound;  of  rectified  oil  of  amber,  1  pound;  spirits  of 
turpentine,  1  pound;  oil  of  lavender,  1  ounce;  and  tinctureof  alkanet  root, 
\  ounce.  Saturate  a  piece  of  cotton  batting  with  this  polish,  apply  it  to 
the  wood,  then,  with  soft  and  dry  cotton  rags,  rub  well  and  wipe  off  dry. 
This  will  make  old  furniture  in  private  dwellings,  or  that  which  has  been 
shop-worn  in  warerooms,  look  as  well  as  when  first  finished.  The  articles 
should  be  put  in  a  jar  or  jug,  well  mixed,  and  afterward  kept  tightly  cork- 
ed.    This  is  a  valuable  receipt,  and  not  generally  known. 

Cook  Everything  on  a  Gas  Eange.-See  the  Gas  Company  NOW. 


IIG  HIGHLAND  HOSPITAL  COOK  BOOK. 

Restoring  Stained  and  Soiled  Garments. 

Fresh  fruits  stains  may  be  removed  by  scalding  the  garment  in  boihng 
water  before  washing  it.  Ink  stains  usually  succumb  to  soaking  in  fresh 
milk.  The  milk  will  not  injure  the  most  delicate  colors.  Saturating  an 
article  in  salts  of  lemon,  lemon  juice  and  salt,  and  drying  in  the  sun,  will 
efface  most  stains,  including  ink  and  iron  rust,  from  white  fabrics.  If  the 
fabric  is  colored,  the  acid  will  remove  the  color  as  well  as  the  stain.  Oxalic 
acid  is  still  more  powerful  for  the  same  purpose.  After  using  it  wash  the 
article,  or  the  acid  will  injure  the  fabric.  Ammonia  will  restore  color 
which  has  been  taken  out  by  acids.  When,  however,  the  acid  has  been 
used  to  remove  a  stain,  the  spot  often  reappears  as  well  as  the  restored 
color.  French  chalk  is  a  specific  for  grease  spots.  Get  the  chalk  in  the 
stone,  as  the  powder  frequently  is  adulterated,  and  scrape  it  on  the  spot 
until  it  is  well  covered.  Leave  the  chalk  on  until  it  absorbs  the  grease. 
Two  or  three  applications  often  are  necessary  for  the  purpose.  Brush  the 
-ehalk  ofT  thoroughly  each  time  before  renewing  it,  and  use  plenty  of  it. 


Beef  Heads  the  List  of  Meats. 

A  weak  stomach  will  digest  beef  with  greater  ease  than  other  met  s,  assum- 
ing the  cooking  to  be  properly  done.  All  methods  of  cooking  .-equiring 
great  heat,  such  as  roasting,  baking,  broiling  or  frying,  are  apt  to  produce 
the  fatty  acids  on  the  surface,  so  the  outside  portions  should  ijot  be  used. 
The  inside  is  easy  of  digestion,  consequently  of  greater  food  value.  Mut- 
ton is  next  in  order,  then  carefully  fed  and  well-killed  poultry^  and  fresh, 
white-fleshed  fish.  Eggs  and  milk  are  admirable  forms  of  animal  food  for 
the  growing  child.  Veal  and  lamb  are  less  nutritious  and  digestible  than 
the  flesh  of  the  fully  grown  animal,  and  should  not  be  given  to  children. 
Veal  frequently  produces  an  acute  attack  of  indigestion,  and  is  really  a 
poison.  Lamb  is  preferable  to  veal,  as  it  is  not  so  indigestible,  but  is  not 
very  nutritious,  consequently  the  work  of  digestion  is  performed  without 
reward.  What  is  said  of  veal  applies  equally  to  pork,  only  that  the  latter 
contains  more  fat,  making  it  even  more  indigestible  and  objectionable,  if 
that  is  possible.  All  forms  of  pork  should  be  strictly  avoided  in  the  child's 
dietary.  A.  N.  Tally,  Jr.,  M.  D. 

To  Cure  Toothache. 

The  worst  toothache,  or  neuralgia  coming  from  the  teeth,  may  be  speed- 
ily and  delightfully  ended  by  the  application  of  a  bit  of  cotton  saturated 
in  a  solution  of  ammonia,  to  the  defective  tooth.  Sometimes  the  sufferer 
is  prompted  to  momentary  laughter  by  the  application,  but  the  pain  will 
disappear. 

For  Felon. 

Take  common  rock  salt,  as  used  for  salting  down  pork  or  beef,  dry  it  in 
an  oven,  and  pound  it  fine ;  then  mix  it  with  spirits  of  turpentine  in  equal 
parts,  put  it  in  a  rag  and  wrap  it  around  the  parts  affected  ;  as  it  gets  dry 
put  on  more,  and  in  twenty-four  hours  you  are  cured.  The  felon  will  be 
dead. 


Wo  you  own  {\e  I^ouse  you  live  in  ? 

Do  you  want  the  house  you  live  in  to  look  nice  and  tasty? 


Keep  it  well  painted,  and  use  on  it 


HAMMOND'S 
COTTAGE   COLORS! 


Because  this  grade  of  paint  is  made  carefully 
TO  RESIST  WEAR 

and  look  well.  It  is  a  ready-mixed  paint,  and  some  painters 
tell  us  v.  is  no  good.  On  the  other  hand  we  bring  accurate, 
or  scien:  ific  knowledge  to  bear  upon  the  grinding  and  com- 
pounding of  each  ingredient  used,  and  we  give  you  an  even- 
colored,  vveather-resisting  paint. 

Back  of  this  we  have  a  twenty-four  years  record 

of  the  economy  of  this  Paint,  from  people  who  have 
bought  and  paid  for  the  goods 


In  stock  and  on  hand  we  have  for  sale 
Every  Sort  of  Material  used  in  Painting. 

UftlMIMftnrlU    D/tInt   \Mf%^LfS       ^E  for. I,ong: Dock. 

Haminond  s  raint  works,  FishkiiiLan(iing,N.Y. 

Hammond's   Slug  Shot 

Kills  Currant  Worms, —and  the 
Lice  too. 

Slug  Shot  kills  Potato  Bugs. 

Slug  Shot  kills  Rose  Lice. 

Slug  Shot  kills  Cabbage  Worms. 

Slug  Shot  kills  Lice  on  any  Fruit 
Trees  or  Flowers. 

twit  is  cheap,  and  safe  to  use.     Sold  by  dealers  in  Seeds. 


/^V: 


1S^ 


■■:  i^ 


\  J 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket 


I 


