The 

HOME  MAKERS 
COOK  BOOK 


Class  \  5. 

Finnic  rr  3  to 

Copyright  _ 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSCk 


t 


* 


' 


THE  HOME-MAKER’S 
COOKBOOK 


CONTAINING 

TRUE  AND  TRIED  RECIPES 


COLLECTED  AND  PUBLISHED  BY  THE  LADIES  OF 

THE  WOMEN’S  MISSIONARY  SOCIETY 

CONGREGATIONAL  CHURCH 

Tewksbury,  Massachusetts 


THE  WOMAN  S  TASK 

A  house  is  built  of  bricks  and  stones,  of  sills  and  posts  and  piers, 

But  a  home  is  built  of  loving  deeds  that  stand  a  thousand  years. 

A  house,  though  but  a  humble  cot,  within  its  walls  may  hold 
A  home  of  priceless  beauty,  rich  in  Love’s  eternal  gold. 

The  men  of  earth  build  houses,  halls  and  chambers,  roofs  and  domes,  — 
But  the  women  of  the  earth  —  God  knows! — the  women  build  the  homes. 

Nixon  Waterman 


TX1L5 

T3G 


Copyright,  1924 

Cover  Design  by  Miss  Gladys  M.  Pillsbury 


Trans  j  frotft 
Copy  rig  .  Office 

UJ: 


ANDOVER  PRESS 
Andover,  Mass. 


APR  21 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

Foreword  ........  7 

Soups . 13 

Fish  .........  18 

Meats  and  Poultry  .......  30 

Sauces  .........  45 

Vegetables  47 

Entrees  .........  53 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings  ......  60 

Bread  .........  68 

Cake . 83 

Pastry . 103 

Puddings  and  Desserts  .  .  .  .  .  113 

Pickles  and  Preserves  .  .  .  .  .  .  134 

Confectionery  ........  150 

Beverages  .........  155 

Frozen  Dainties  .  .  .  .  .  157 

Invalid  Cookery  .  .  .  .  .  .  .162 

Rules  Contributed  by  Gentlemen  ....  165 

Eggs . 170 

Blank  Pages  for  Additional  Recipes  .  .  .  .  171 

Our  Advertisers  .....  .170 


CHAIRMEN  OF  DEPARTMENTS 


Fish 

Rules  Contributed  by  Gentlemen 
Pickles 

Preserves  \ 

Invalid  Cookery  J 


Soups  ) 

Salads  [ 

Sauces  j 

Cakes 
Pies 
Entrees 

Game  and  Poultry 

Puddings  and  Desserts 
Eggs 

Frozen  Dainties  ] 
Confectionery  \ 
Beverages  J 

Bread 

Meat 

Vegetables 


Mrs.  H.  W.  Pillsbury 

Miss  M.  E.  Marshall 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Nichols 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Tingley 

Miss  Blanche  King 
Mrs.  F.  G.  Gulliland 

Mrs.  H.  P.  Dinsmore 

.  Mrs.  G.  E.  Bailey 


FOREWORD 


The  idea  of  publishing  and  selling  a  cook  book  was  undertaken  by  a  committee 
from  The  Women’s  Missionary  Society  of  the  Tewksbury  Congregational  Church, 
consisting  of  Mrs.  H.  W.  Pillsbury,  Chairman,  Miss  M.  Esther  Marshall,  Secretary; 
Mrs.  John  H.  Nichols,  Treasurer;  Mrs.  Arthur  C.  Tingley,  Miss  Blanche  King, 
Mrs.  Frank  Gulliland,  Mrs.  H.  P.  Dinsmore,  Mrs.  Gertrude  E.  Bailey.  They  began 
the  work  in  October,  1923,  as  their  special  gift  toward  a  fund  for  an  organ  for  the 
new  church.  After  months  of  earnest  work,  the  committee  presents  to  the  public 
The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook  as  the  result  of  their  united  efforts  and  painstaking 
thought. 

The  committee  is  under  much  obligation  and  gratefully  acknowledges  the  co¬ 
operation  of  the  friends  who  have  so  heartily  contributed  of  their  best,  the  favorite 
true  and  tried  recipes  and  helpful  suggestions,  in  such  numbers  that  it  has  not  been 
possible  to  make  use  of  them  all  in  a  volume  of  this  size.  Duplicates  have  been 
withdrawn,  and  very  similar  rules  in  some  cases  have  been  combined. 

The  committee  and  friends  of  the  undertaking  are  indebted  to  numerous  prom¬ 
inent  and  responsible  firms  who  have  so  generously  contributed  to  the  financial 
success  of  the  book  by  their  advertising.  To  them  we  return  our  sincere  thanks  and 
take  pleasure  and  pride  in  calling  attention  to  them  as  the  leading  representative 
business  firms  in  Tewksbury,  Billerica  and  Lowell.  Friends  of  the  work  are  urged 
to  show  their  appreciation  by  giving  them  the  liberal  patronage  so  well  deserved. 

Our  aim  in  offering  this  collection  is  to  give  absolutely  dependable  rules  from 
the  best  homes,  in  such  simple  form  that  even  young  housekeepers  can  prepare  meals 
without  difficulty  and  with  confidence  of  success. 

To  all  who  have  helped  make  this  book  a  success,  our  grateful  thanks  are 
offered.  To  all  who  may  be  helped  by  these  recipes  our  greeting  is  extended. 

Yours  very  cordially, 

Mrs.  H  W.  Pillsbury 
Miss  M.  Esther  Marshall 
Mrs  John  H.  Nichols 
Mrs.  Arthur  C.  Tingley 
Miss  Blanche  King 
Mrs.  Frank  G.  Gulliland 
Mrs.  H.  P.  Dinsmore 
Mrs.  Gertrude  Bailey 
Committee  on  arrangement  of  Cook  Book 


A  TABLE  FOR  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  FOR 
HOUSEKEEPERS 


4  tablespoons 
4  wineglasses 

2  cups 
4  cups 

3  teaspoons  liquid 
1  gill 

16  tablespoons  liquid 

3  tablespoons  grated  chocolate 
1  qt.  sifted  corn  meal 

1  cup  raisins 
60  drops 

4  gills 

2  pts. 

4  qts. 

4  cups  sifted  flour 
9  large  eggs 

2  cups  granulated  sugar 
2x/i  cups  powdered  sugar 
2  level  tablespoons  butter 
4  level  tablespoons  flour 
2  solid  cups  butter 
2  salt  spoons 
4  tablespoons  coffee 


1  wineglass 
1  cup 
1  pint 
1  qt. 

1  tablespoon 
V*  cup 
1  cup 
1  oz. 

1  lb.,  1  oz. 

Vi  lb. 

1  teaspoon 
1  pt. 

1  qt. 

1  gal. 

1  lb. 

1  lb. 

1  lb. 

1  lb. 

1  oz. 

1  oz. 

1  lb. 

1  teaspoon 
1  oz. 


PROPORTIONS 


1  measure  of  liquid  to  1  measure  of  flour  for  pour  batter. 
1  measure  of  liquid  to  2  measures  of  flour  for  drop  batter. 

1  measure  of  liquid  to  3  measures  of  flour  for  doughs. 

1  teaspoon  soda  to  pint  thick  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoon  soda  to  1  cup  molasses. 

34  teaspoon  salt  to  1  qt.  milk  for  custards. 

34  teaspoon  salt  to  1  cup  soup  or  sauce. 

34  teaspoon  salt  to  1  pt.  flour. 

34  teaspoon  extract  for  a  medium  sized  cake. 

1  teaspoon  extract  to  1  qt.  custard  or  cream. 

%  cup  sugar  to  a  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk  for  plain  cup  custards. 

2  dessert  spoons  of  gelatine  to  pint  of  liquid. 

Package  of  gelatine  to  2  quarts  of  liquid. 


EVERY  WELL-BALANCED  MEAL  SHOULD  HAVE: 

One  protein  dish,  two  carbohydrate  dishes,  one  mineral  dish, 
one  fat,  one  water  dish  (beverage). 

Proteins: — milk,  meat,  eggs,  poultry,  fish,  cheese,  nuts,  cereals. 

Carbohydrates: — cereals,  potatoes,  rice,  bananas,  breads, 
macaroni,  tapioca. 

Minerals: — Fruits,  green  vegetables,  tomatoes,  cauliflower, 
cabbage,  onions. 

Fats:  —  Cream,  butter,  oleo,  meat  fats,  vegetable  fats,  nut 

oils. 


USEFUL  RULES  FOR  BAKING 


Slow  oven 
Moderate  oven 
Hot  oven 
Very  hot  oven 


temperature 


250-300  degrees 
250-400 
400-450 
450-550 


A  RECIPE  FOR  A  HAPPY  LIFE 


Take  a  large  quantity  of  Cheerfulness  and  let  it  simmer  with¬ 
out  stopping.  Put  with  it  a  brimming  basinful  of  Kindness,  then 
add  a  full  measure  of  Thought  for  other  People. 

Mix  into  these  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  Sympathy.  Flavor 
with  essence  of  Charity.  Stir  well  together  and  then  carefully 
strain  off  any  grains  of  Selfishness. 

Let  the  whole  be  served  with  Love  sauce  and  Fruit  of  the 
Spirit. 


Mrs.  Grace  M.  Taylor 


.  1 


' 


I  E  2 


.  ' 


\ 


■ 


THE  HOME-MAKER  S  COOKBOOK 


SOUPS 

OLD-FASHIONED  BEAN  PORRIDGE 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  and  one-half  pints  kindney  or  any  good 
colored  beans  and  cook  three  hours  in  clear  water,  without  pork 
or  salt.  When  soft,  drain  off  this  water  and  put  beans  into  water 
or  liquid  in  which  corned  beef  or  vegetables  have  been  cooked. 
Let  the  fat  in  pot  liquor  remain.  Do  not  strain  the  liquor,  as 
bits  of  cabbage  or  other  vegetables  improve  the  flavor. 

Let  this  simmer  about  an  hour,  then  thicken  with  a  little  flour 
and  water,  mixed  smooth  and  about  as  thick  as  thin  cream.  This 
makes  about  one  gallon  and  will  keep  a  week  or  more  in  a  cool 
place.  Mrs.  H.  B.  Griffin,  Salisbury 

POTATO  SOUP 

6  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes  J/g  lb.  butter 

1  quart  milk  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a 

little  onion  if  liked. 

While  mashing  potato  add  butter;  pour  in  gradually  the  boiling 
milk  and  a  little  dried  celery  leaves  or  celery  salt.  Stir  well, 
strain  through  sieve  and  reheat.  Beat  one  egg  light,  put  in  tureen 
and  pour  over  it  the  hot  soup  when  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Dinsmore 


CELERY  SOUP 

1  small  onion  1  medium  potato  chopped 

1  small  carrot  fine 

Sufficient  celery  chopped  fine  to  fill  a  coffee  cup 
Cook  all  together  in  just  water  enough  to  keep  from  sticking  to 
the  kettle.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  add  one  quart  hot  milk, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mrs.  Bailey 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP 
3  stalks  celery  2  tablespoons  flour 

3  cups  boiling  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  milk  Yi  teaspoon  salt,  pepper 

Cut  celery  in  small  pieces,  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until 
tender.  Drain,  rub  through  sieve  and  return  to  sauce-pan.  Add 


14 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


enough  water  to  the  liquid  which  has  been  drained  from  celery,  to 
make  three  cups.  x4dd  milk  and  seasoning,  melt  butter,  add  flour 
and  stir  until  it  boils.  Combine  with  celery  mixture  and  heat  to 
boiling  point.  Mrs.  A.  F.  French 

QUICK  TOMATO  SOUP 

1  can  tomatoes  34  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  pint  boiling  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  onion  sliced  34  teaspoon  pepper 

5  teaspoons  sugar 

Boil  one-half  hour,  strain.  Add  batter  to  thicken,  butter  size 
of  an  egg.  Cook  five  minutes  more. 

Mrs.  Florence  L.  Garlick 

TOMATO  SOUP  FOR  CANNING 
Weigh  out  one-half  pound  of  nice  butter.  Fry  four  large 
onions  in  a  little  of  the  butter  till  soft,  being  very  careful  not  to 
burn  them.  Scald  and  peel  one  pint  ripe  tomatoes,  add  one  pepper 
cut  in  small  pieces  and  the  fried  onions,  cook  till  soft.  Strain 
through  a  wire  sieve,  using  two  quarts  boiling  water  to  help  the 
straining  process;  discard  the  seeds. 

Return  the  pulp  to  the  fire,  add  the  rest  of  the  butter,  one 
tablespoon  salt,  one  pound  sugar,  and  let  it  come  to  a  scald.  Wet 
six  tablespoons  cornstarch  in  enough  cold  water  to  make  smooth, 
and  when  the  soup  is  hot,  use  for  a  thickening.  When  it  is  thick 
and  creamy  and  boiling  hot,  bottle  it.  When  cold,  wrap  each  jar 
in  paper  to  exclude  the  light.  Reduce  with  two  cups  hot  water 
when  preparing  it  for  the  table.  Mrs.  Bailey 


SPLIT  PEA  SOUP 


1  cup  dried  split  peas,  picked 
over  and  soaked  over  night 
234  fits-  cold  water 
1  pint  milk 
34  onion 


3  tablespoons  butter 
2  tablespoons  flour 
134  teaspoons  salt 
34  teaspoon  pepper 

4  slices  bacon  cut  in  small 


pieces 

Drain  peas  and  add  cold  water,  bacon,  onion.  Simmer 
several  hours  or  until  soft  enough  to  rub  through  sieve.  Add 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  salt  and  pepper.  Dilute  with 
milk,  adding  more  if  necessary.  Liquor  in  which  ham  has  been 
boiled  can  be  used  for  this  soup.  No  more  salt  is  then  necessary. 

Mrs.  Ida  Burnham 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


15 


SALT  FISH  BISQUE 

One  cup  shredded  codfish,  rinsed  with  cold  water,  drain. 
Add  two  cups  boiling  water,  two  cups  strained  tomatoes,  one 
thick  slice  onion  and  simmer  half  an  hour.  Add  one-half  salt- 
spoon  soda.  Thicken  with  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour, 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 
Pour  into  tureen  with  two  cups  hot  milk.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Mrs.  C.  H.  Preston,  Danvers 

PARSNIP  CHOWDER 

Try  out  one-third  cup  fat  salt  pork;  add  four  slices  onion 
finely  chopped.  Fry  five  minutes,  until  slightly  colored.  Strain 
fat  into  sauce  pan.  Add  one-half  cup  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Over  potatoes  place  two  cups  parsnips  cut  in  small  pieces.  An¬ 
other  one-half  cup  potatoes;  sprinkle  generously  with  pepper, 
salt,  add  two  cups  boiling  water. 

Cook  until  vegetables  are  soft.  One  quart  cold  milk,  two 
level  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  two  table¬ 
spoons  chopped  parsley.  Add  onion  already  fried.  Mix  well. 
Can  be  cooked  in  casserole.  Miss  Austin 

SCOTCH  BROTH 

4  lbs.  neck  mutton  1  cup  chopped  carrots 

6  qts.  water  34  CUP  chopped  onion 

34  cup  barley  1  cup  diced  potatoes 

Cut  mutton  into  small  pieces,  put  in  soup  kettle  with  the 
water.  Add  barley,  let  come  to* boil  and  cook  six  hours  just  below 
the  boiling  point.  Add  the  vegetables  and  simmer  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  longer. 

SQUASH  SOUP 

%  cup  cooked  squash  (unseasoned)  2  tablespoons  butter 
1  quart  milk  234  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

34  teaspoon  celery  salt,  pepper 

Rub  squash  through  sieve  before  measuring.  Put  together, 
remove  onion  after  scalding.  Strain  mixture  over  one-half  cup 
whipped  cream  or  use  top  milk,  adding  enough  to  thin  sufficiently. 

O.  H.  Nichols 

CORN  SOUP 

Left-over  corn  on  cob  or  canned  corn  can  be  used.  If  corn  on 
cob,  split  grains  open  with  sharp  knife  and  scrape  pulp  from  cob. 


16 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


Put  over  fire  with  considerable  water  and  cook  slowly  one  hour. 
Add  a  bit  of  celery,  tomato  or  whatever  one  likes.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  butter  and  one  tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  a  little 
cold  milk.  Add  milk  as  necessary. 

MY  MOTHER’S  OLD  STAND-BY  SOUP 
Buy  a  shank  of  beef,  wash  clean  and  put  to  cook  in  a  gallon  or 
more  of  cold  water.  Skim  as  fast  as  scum  rises  to  the  top,  so  none 
boils  in.  Cook  till  meat  falls  from  the  bone.  Let  bone  remain  all 
night  in  the  liquor.  In  the  morning  take  off  fat  and  put  on  to 
boil  with  a  scant  half  cup  of  rice.  Cut  up  carrots  and  cabbage 
fine,  and  turnips  in  small  pieces  and  add,  lastly  onions  to  your 
taste.  When  done,  put  in  a  can  of  solid  tomato,  parsnips  if  liked, 
and  thicken  a  little  with  flour.  Mrs.  George  Buck 

CANNED  TOMATO  SOUP 

10  qts.  tomatoes,  measured  after  being  peeled  and  cut  in  eighths 
4  qts.  water  3  bay  leaves 

4  medium-sized  onions  1  teaspoon  whole  cloves 

1  red  pepper  cut  up 
Cook  until  soft,  strain  and  add: 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

3  tablespoons  salt  1  teaspoon  allspice 

Bring  to  a  boil  and  seal. 

Makes  seven  and  one-half  quarts.  When  serving,  thicken 
with  cornstarch,  using  one  tablespoon  to  a  quart. 

Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Hale,  Danvers 

CLAM  BISQUE 

1  quart  milk  12  clams 

1  onion  chopped 

Put  these  ingredients  in  double  boiler  and  simmer  for  one 
hour.  Mix  one-half  teaspoon  cornstarch  and  two  tablespoons  flour 
in  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  in  mixture  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Add  salt  and  strain  over  one  beaten  egg  in  tureen.  Chopped 
parsley  may  be  added. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

Skin,  remove  bones,  cut  in  small  pieces  four  pounds  cod  or 
haddock.  Put  head  and  bones  on  to  boil  in  one  quart  cold  water. 
Pare  and  slice  potatoes  to  make  equal  bulk  as  fish  and  let  them 
stand  in  cold  water.  Fry  two  or  three  slices  fat  salt  pork.  Add 
one  small  onion  cut  fine  and  fry  in  fat  five  minutes  very  carefully. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


17 


Strain  fat  into  big  kettle;  put  in  potatoes  and  enough  boiling  water 
to  cover.  Boil  five  minutes.  Add  the  strained  liquor  in  which 
head  and  bones  were  boiled.  Then  the  fish  with  one  tablespoon 
salt,  one  salt-spoon  pepper.  Simmer  until  potatoes  are  soft  (ten 
minutes).  Add  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  pint  boiling  milk. 
Break  six  chowder  crackers  in  halves  in  a  tureen  and  turn  the 
chowder  over  them.  O.  H.  Nichols 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 
J/2  can  tomato  1  small  onion 

2  teaspoons  sugar  4  tablespoons  flour 

to  }/2  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  milk  }/$  teaspoon  pepper 

3^  cup  butter 

Scald  milk  with  onion  and  thicken  milk  with  flour  diluted 
with  cold  water  until  thin  enough  to  pour,  being  careful  that  the 
mixture  is  free  from  lumps;  cook  twenty  minutes,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly  at  first.  Cook  tomatoes  with  sugar  fifteen  minutes.  Add 
soda.  Combine  mixtures  and  strain  into  tureen  over  butter,  salt 
and  pepper. 

CAULIFLOWER  CREAM  SOUP 
Cook  one  pint  finely  chopped  cauliflower  in  a  double  boiler 
with  one  quart  milk  until  tender.  Press  through  a  sieve,  return  to 
fire  and  season  to  taste.  Add  one  tablespoon  butter  and  one  des¬ 
sert  spoon  cornstarch  stirred  to  smooth  paste  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Serve  at  once  with  small  squares  of  buttered  brownbread. 

Mrs.  George  Buck 


FISH 


TIME  TABLE  FOR  BOILING  FISH 

Fish  2  to  5  lbs.  30-45  minutes 

BROILING 

Shad,  whitefish,  bluefish 

BAKING 

Fish  3  to  4  lbs. 

Small  fish  and  fillets 

Scalloped  dishes 

FRYING 

Smelts 

Fish  balls  and  croquettes 

TO  BOIL  FISH 

Clean  fish  in  cold  water  and  salt.  Place  in  a  kettle  half  filled 
with  boiling  water.  Cook  slowly,  allowing  fifteen  to  twenty  min¬ 
utes  to  the  pound.  A  long  fish  kettle  with  a  rack  is  very  handy, 
but  not  absolutely  necessary.  The  water  in  which  fish  cooks 
should  have  salt,  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  added;  a  tablespoon  of 
salt,  a  teaspoon  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  each  quart  and  a  half 
of  water.  This  gives  flavor  and  keeps  the  fish  white  and  firm.  The 
fish  is  cooked  when  it  separates  easily  from  the  bone.  Take  out  of 
water  immediately,  garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Pillsbury 

TO  BAKE  FISH 

Clean  and  dry  the  fish  thoroughly,  rub  with  salt  inside  and 
out;  stuff  and  sew.  Cut  gashes  two  inches  apart  on  each  side  so 
they  will  alternate.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  place 
slices  of  salt  pork  in  each  gash,  put  in  pan  with  a  half  a  cup  boiling 
water.  Place  in  a  hot  oven.  When  it  begins  to  brown,  baste  and 
repeat  every  ten  minutes.  If  water  dries  out,  put  more  hot  water 
in  and  lower  heat  of  oven  after  the  fish  browns  to  a  nice  light 
brown.  It  takes  about  three-quarters  of  a  hour  to  bake  a  three- 
pound  fish.  When  done  remove  to  a  hot  platter  whole.  Remove 
string  that  it  is  sewed  with;  serve  hot.  For  garnish  and  sauce,  see 
recipes.  M.  M.  P. 


15-20  minutes 


45-60  minutes 
20  minutes 
30  minutes  to  1  hour 

3-5  minutes 
1  minute 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


19 


TO  FRY  FISH,  ETC. 

All  fish  are  fried  in  a  somewhat  similar  manner  and  a  few 
general  directions  may  be  given.  Fish  that  are  to  be  fried  should 
be  made  perfectly  dry  and  to  accomplish  this,  must  be  covered 
with  bread  crumbs,  flour  or  corn  meal.  The  fat  should  be  per¬ 
fectly  hot,  at  a  temperature  of  at  least  345  degrees  F.  This  is 
ascertained  in  several  ways.  The  best  is  to  use  a  thermometer, 
but  as  this  is  not  always  to  be  had,  a  very  good  way  is  to  put  the 
fat  on  the  fire  and  allow  it  to  get  hot  till  it  begins  to  smoke.  When 
the  fat  becomes  quite  still  and  slightly  smokes,  put  the  fish  in  and 
fry  till  they  become  a  light  brown.  Another  good  way  is  to  have 
plenty  of  fat  to  cover  whatever  you  wish  to  fry.  After  the  fish  is 
fried,  put  them  on  a  paper  to  drain.  These  rules  of  the  heat  of 
fat  refer  to  all  kinds  of  frying.  Mrs.  H.  W.  Pillsbury 

BAKED  STUFFED  HADDOCK 
4  lbs.  haddock  boned;  lay  in  pan  and  stuff  with  following  dressing: 
7  brown  baked  crackers  3^2  teaspoon  salt 

134  teaspoons  sage  .  teaspoon  pepper 

lb.  butter  Boiling  water 

Roll  crackers  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage;  add 
butter,  pour  boiling  water  over  mixture  to  right  consistency  when 
well  stirred  together  to  spread  in  fish.  Lay  top  layer  of  fish  over 
stuffing  and  scar  top  of  fish  in  four  places,  laying  a  thin  slice  of 
pork  in  slits.  Serve  with  egg  white  sauce. 

Edith  A.  Foristall 

CREAMED  FINNAN  HADDIE 
2  cups  flaked  finnan  haddie  3^  CUP  buttered  bread  crumbs 

2  cups  cream  sauce  (thin)  1  teaspoon  parsley 

1  beaten  egg 

Mix  fish,  sauce  and  egg.  Put  into  buttered  baking  dish  and 
cover  with  crumbs.  Bake  until  brown  on  top;  sprinkle  with 
parsley  before  serving.  Mrs.  Roland  T.  Cresse,  Medford 

FINNAN  HADDIE 

Place  fish  skin  side  down  in  boiling  water  to  stand  five  min¬ 
utes  or  until  the  skin  can  be  entirely  pulled  off. 

Place  fish  in  baking  dish  skinned  side  uppermost.  Turn  over 
small  quantity  of  milk  and  bake  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Spread 
with  bits  of  butter  and  serve  hot  with  baked  potatoes. 

Mrs.  O.  H.  Nichols 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


20 


FISH  CHOWDER 

1  lb.  haddock  1  (10c)  or  2  (5c)  cans  Van 

3  pints  water  Camp’s  unsweetened  evap- 

3  large  potatoes  orated  milk 

4  onions  Butter 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  one  pound  haddock,  after  boned,  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Put  in  kettle  with  water.  Slice  potatoes  and  onions,  put 
in  with  fish  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  milk,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Mrs.  N.  B.  Reed,  Lowell 


DOWN-EAST  FISH  CHOWDER 
2  quarts  sliced  potatoes  1  large  sliced  onion 

l}/2  lbs.  sliced  codfish  1  small  slice  pork 

1  cup  milk 

Cut  pork  in  small  pieces  and  fry  with  onion  to  a  light  brown. 
Put  the  fish,  potatoes,  salt,  pepper  and  fried  onion  into  a  kettle 
and  add  boiling  water  until  you  can  just  see  it  through  the 
potatoes.  Cook  slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  After  it  is  done, 
take  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  wet  it  with  two  of  water;  then  add 
one  tea-cup  of  rich  milk;  pour  all  over  the  chowder  and  let  it  boil 
up  once.  Mrs.  G.  H.  Foster 


FISH  CAKES 

1  lb.  salt  codfish,  boned  Butter,  size  of  egg 

8  large  potatoes  Black  pepper  1  egg 

Soak  fish  over  night  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Throw 
water  off  in  morning  and  cover  with  fresh,  then  boil  until  codfish 
is  soft.  Strain,  and  pick  apart. 

Boil  eight  large  potatoes,  when  done  mash,  and  add  one  egg, 
butter  and  black  pepper.  Beat  potatoes  until  creamy  and  add  to 
fish.  Mix  all  together,  thoroughly,  form  into  round  flat  cakes 
and  roll  in  corn  meal.  Fry  in  hot  fat  until  a  rich  brown. 

Mrs.  Walter  W.  Lavell 


FISH  TURBAN 

23^2  cups  cold  cooked  fish  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  Oleo  or  butter  3d?  teaspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  flour  1J4  cups  milk 

1  sliced  onion  3dz  teaspoon  parsley 

%  cup  buttered  crumbs  Blade  of  mace 

1  egg,  or  yolks  of  2 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


21 


Scald  milk  with  onion,  mace  and  parsley,  strain  and  remove 
seasonings.  Melt  fat,  add  flour,  salt  and  pepper  and  slightly 
beaten  egg.  Put  layer  of  fish,  then  layer  of  sauce  and  finish  with 
crumbs  on  top. 

Bake  in  hot  oven  till  crumbs  are  brown. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Ramsay 


FISH  TURBOT 

2  lbs.  any  white  fish  1  pint  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  flour  Salt  —  onion  salt 

Buttered  bread  crumbs  Paprika 

Boil  two  pounds  any  white  fish  and  remove  all  bones.  Place 
in  buttered  baking  dish. 

Make  the  following  sauce  and  pour  over  fish: 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour. 
Cook  until  it  bubbles,  add  gradually  a  pint  of  milk,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly.  Add  two  beaten  eggs  to  mixture  and  cook  until  thick. 
Season  with  salt,  onion  salt  and  paprika. 

Place  buttered  bread  crumbs  on  top  and  bake  slowly  until 
well  browned.  Marguerite  Lee  Goodwin 


SCALLOPED  FISH 
2  lbs.  haddock  Flour 

1  pint  milk  Salt 

Butter  Pepper 

Boil  two  pounds  haddock,  remove  bone  and  skin,  break  in 
medium  size  pieces;  put  in  baking  dish  and  bake  half  an  hour  in 
milk  gravy  made  of :  one  pint  milk,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  flour. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Miller 

CODFISH  MOUND 

2  cups  boiled  flaked  codfish  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  34  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  hot  milk 

2  cups  mashed  potato 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  when  well  blended 
add  milk  gradually  and  stir  until  smooth.  Cook  for  three  minutes 
then  add  fish  and  potatoes  well  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Mix  thoroughly  and  place  in  a  mound  on  a  hot  platter. 
Brush  over  with  beaten  egg  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Garnish 
with  parsley.  Mrs.  S.  T.  Dinsmore 


22 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


ESCALLOPED  COD 

1J4  lbs.  fresh  codfish  3  tablespoons  butter 

1J4  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Cut  codfish  into  finger  length  pieces  an  inch  or  two  wide. 
Arrange  these  in  a  shallow  baking  dish  so  that  when  done  each 
serving  may  be  lifted  out  without  breaking  any  other  piece. 

Prepare  a  rich  cream  sauce  of:  Milk,  butter,  flour  and  salt. 
Pour  sauce  over  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs  and  shake 
a  bit  of  paprika  on  each  piece  of  fish. 

Bake  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Miss  Evelyn  Dutton,  Dracut 

HOLLENDEN  HALIBUT 

2  lbs.  halibut  3  tablespoons  butter 

Fat  salt  pork  Flour 

Small  onion  %  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs 

Arrange  six  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  about  an  inch  square  in 
a  dripping-pan.  Cover  with  one  small  onion,  thinly  sliced,  and 
add  a  bit  of  bay  leaf.  Wipe  a  two-pound  piece  of  halibut  and 
place  on  pork  and  onion.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter  and 
flour  together,  pour  over  fish;  cover  with  three-quarters  cup  but¬ 
tered  cracker  crumbs  and  arrange  thin  strips  of  salt  pork  over 
crumbs. 

Bake  fifty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Remove  to  hot  dish 
and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon,  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. 

Mrs.  A.  K.  Barrows,  Lowell 

SWEDISH  HALIBUT 

1  lb.  sliced  halibut,  brush  with  melted  butter  and  shake  on  pepper 
and  salt. 

24  can  tomatoes  34  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 

onion  34  cup  heavy  cream 

Place  halibut  in  earthen  dish,  drain  tomatoes  to  get  solid 
part,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  spread  on  fish,  cover  with  onion  chopped 
fine.  Bake  twenty  minutes,  and  then  add  cream.  Serve  in  the 
dish  it  is  cooked  in.  Miss  Edith  Austin 


Sliced  halibut  (thick) 

Salt 

Pepper 


BAKED  HALIBUT 
Butter 
1  pint  milk 
Flour 


The  Home-Maker’ s  Cookbook 


23 


Put  thick  slices  of  halibut  into  deep  baking  dish.  Rub  with 
salt,  pepper  and  flour.  Cover  with  small  pieces  of  butter  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  an  hour. 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  little 
salt  and  piece  of  butter.  Cook  until  it  thickens  and  pour  over  fish. 

Return  to  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes  to  brown. 

Miss  Amy  Tingley 

BAKED  HALIBUT 
2  slices  of  halibut  Salt 

Cracker  crumbs  Pepper 

Poultry  dressing 

Take  two  slices  of  halibut.  Make  a  dressing  of  cracker 
crumbs  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  poultry  dressing.  Put 
dressing  between  layers  of  fish,  two  or  three  slices  of  salt  pork  on 
top,  and  bake  with  a  little  water  in  pan. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Miller 


HALIBUT  LOAF 
1  lb.  halibut  1  egg 

34  cup  milk  3  common  crackers 

Pepper  and  salt  Few  drops  lemon  juice 

Boil  and  flake  halibut;  add  egg,  well  beaten,  crackers  broken 
in  pieces  which  have  soaked  in  the  milk.  Add  a  few  drops  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  well  buttered  pan,  twenty  min¬ 
utes  in  moderate  oven.  Set  pan  in  dish  of  hot  water  while  baking. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Runels,  Lowell 


GELATINE  TUNA  FISH 


34  envelope  gelatine,  “Knox 
Sparkling” 

1  or  2  eggs 
Cayenne  pepper 
cup  milk 


2  tablespoons  vinegar 
2  tablespoons  cold  water 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  mustard 
134  tablespoons  melted  butter 


Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Mix  one  or  two  eggs,  salt,  mus¬ 
tard,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper;  add  melted  butter,  milk  and  vine¬ 
gar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  till  it  thickens.  Add  gelatine  and  can 
Tuna  fish,  turn  into  a  mould.  A  little  chopped  parsley  or  chopped 
hard  boiled  eggs  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Harriet  Palmer  Osgood 


SHRIMP  COMPORT 

2  cups  boiled  rice  Salt  and  pepper 

1  can  tomato  soup  or  tomato  juice  1  can  shrimp 


24 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Season  boiled  rice  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  strained  tomato 
juice  or  tomato  soup,  add  can  shrimp,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Serve  hot  on  toast  or  toasted  crackers. 

Mrs.  C.  M.  Runels 

FISH  A  LA  BECHAMEL 

1  tablespoon  butter,  heaping  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  pt.  cold  cooked  white  fish 

3^  pint  cream  Buttered  bread  crumbs 

Salt,  pepper,  mace. 

Melt  butter,  stir  in  flour,  when  well  mixed  add  cream  slowly, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  mace. 

Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  well-beaten  eggs  and  one  pint  of 
any  kind  of  cold,  cooked  white  fish,  flaked  fine.  Turn  into  small 
buttered  dishes,  sprinkle  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,  place  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  moderately  about  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Emma  Anderson,  East  Lynn 

LUNCHEON  SHRIMP 
Small  can  shrimp  1  cup  milk 

Bread  crumbs  Butter,  salt,  pepper 

Place  shrimp  (mashed  without  liquor)  from  small  can,  alter¬ 
nately  in  baking  dish,  with  bread  crumbs,  having  crumbs  on  top 
and  bottom.  Dot  all  through  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
one  cup  milk  and  let  soak  half  hour,  then  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Walter  P.  Fuller 

SALMON  LOAF 

1  can  salmon  3^8  teaspoon  pepper 

2  eggs  y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  (fine)  3^  cup  vinegar,  or  milk 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Drain  juice  from  one  can  salmon  and  chop  fish  fine.  Add 
yolks  of  eggs,  bread  crumbs,  melted  butter,  pepper,  salt,  vinegar 
or  milk.  Beat  white  of  eggs  and  add.  Put  into  buttered  pan  and 
bake  half  hour.  Serve  hot  with  sauce:  add  juice  drained  from 
salmon  to 

1  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Cook  five  minutes.  Add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  and  cook  one 
minute.  Mrs.  C.  M.  Runels,  Lowell 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


25 


SALMON  BOX 

1  cup  rice  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

3/2  teaspoon  salt  3  cups  water 

3>4  cup  butter  x/i  teaspoon  curry  powder 

1  lb.  salmon 

Cook  rice  until  tender,  stir  in  the  butter,  curry  powder  and 
onion  juice.  Line  a  mould  with  rice  mixture;  fill  the  center  with 
the  salmon  flaked  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with 
another  layer  of  rice  to  complete  the  box  and  enclose  the  salmon. 
Steam  one  hour.  Serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Miss  Evelyn  Dutton,  Dracut 

SALMON  ROW 

1  can  salmon  3^  cup  cracker  crumbs 

4  tablespoons  butter  4  eggs  beaten  light 

(Measured  before  melting). 

Chop  fish  fine,  then  beat  in  a  bowl.  Add  cracker  crumbs  with 
the  eggs,  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Steam  in  a 
mould  one  hour. 

Sauce  for  above : — 

1  cup  heated  milk  1  teaspoon  red  tomato  cat- 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  sup 

2  tablespoons  butter  a  pinch  cayenne  pepper 

1  egg  —  raw,  add  at  the  last  carefully 

Miss  J.  S.  Battles 

SALMON  SOUFFLE 
1  cup  milk  2  eggs 

6  tablespoons  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  butter  large  can  salmon 

Heat  milk  with  bread  crumbs  to  the  scalding  point,  remove 
from  fire.  Add  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  two  eggs  slightly  beaten. 
Return  to  fire  a  moment  until  the  butter  is  melted,  then  add  fish 
flaked  fine,  bones  and  skin  removed.  Pour  mixture  into  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  until  light  and  brown. 

Tuna  fish  can  also  be  used  in  place  of  salmon. 

Miss  Margaret  Nichols,  Salem 

CAN  SALMON  BAKED 

1  can  salmon  3  tablespoons  butter 

cup  bread  crumbs  2  eggs 

Salt,  pepper,  parsley 


26 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


Chop  salmon  fine,  add  yolks  beaten,  bread  crumbs,  salt  and 
pepper,  melted  butter,  a  little  parsley;  mix,  add  whites  beaten. 
Bake  one-half  hour.  Mrs.  Belle  MacCausland,  Quincy 

FRIED  SCALLOPS 

Wash  scallops  in  cold  water,  roll  in  yellow  Indian  meal,  and 
fry  in  pork  fat  until  brown.  A.  S.  Westgate 

SALMON  TO  BOIL 

Put  into  a  pan  enough  water  to  cover  the  fish,  a  tablespoon  of 
salt  to  each  gallon  of  water,  and  a  teaspoon  of  vinegar.  When 
the  water  boils  hard  put  in  fish  previously  washed  in  cold  water 
and  salt.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  then  move  to  back  of  stove,  or 
reduce  the  heat  so  that  it  will  barely  boil.  Let  it  remain  this  way 
for  the  proper  time,  which  is  fifteen  minutes  to  one  pound  of  fish; 
three  pounds,  thirty  minutes;  six  pounds,  forty-five  minutes. 
When  a  fish  kettle  is  not  available  there  should  be  a  pan  or  a  form 
holder  placed  in  bottom  of  fish  pan  to  insure  keeping  the  salmon 
whole. 

Garnish  salmon  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs  or  slices  of 
lemon,  or  both. 

Serve  with  white  egg  sauce,  or  drawn  butter  sauce. 

WHITE  EGG  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  milk  %  teaspoon  salt  —  pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  the  flour  and  seasoning,  stir  until  thoroughly 
blended.  Pour  on  the  milk,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  well  till 
mixed.  Cook  until  smooth.  Hard  boiled  eggs  sliced  into  sauce 
when  done. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE 
34  CUP  butter  1  cup  boiling  milk 

34  cup  flour  Salt  and  pepper. 

Follow  directions  for  white  egg  sauce.  Omitting  the  eggs. 

Marion  M.  Pillsbury 

MOULDED  HALIBUT  OR  HADDOCK 
1  lb.  halibut  or  haddock  Bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  cream 

34  teaspoon  celery  salt  4  eggs  —  whites 

Use  equal  parts  of  bread  crumbs  and  fish,  add  cream  to 
bread  crumbs  and  cook  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  fish  chopped; 
add  the  butter,  celery  salt,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 


The  Home-Maker' s  Cookbook 


27 


stiff.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  bread  pan  lined  with 
paper  buttered.  Place  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Serve  with  almond 
sauce. 

ALMOND  SAUCE 

One  quarter  pound  almonds  blanched  and  cut  fine,  and 
browned  in  butter.  Heat  one  pint  of  cream  in  double  boiler.  Add 
two  tablespoons  butter  and  flour  blended.  Add  gradually  to 
almonds  a  little  salt,  then  pour  over  fish.  More  cream  may  be 
used  if  necessary.  Mrs.  H.  M.  Larrabee 

FISH  A  LA  CREME 

4  to  6  lbs.  cod  or  haddock  1  to  C/i  pints  cream  sauce 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  %  cup  melted  butter 

Cook  fish  in  boiling  salted  water;  when  cool  remove  skin  and 
bones  and  pick  apart  in  flakes,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put 
a  layer  of  fish  on  a  platter  suitable  for  serving;  cover  with  white 
sauce,  letting  the  fish  soak  up  all  it  will,  then  arrange  another 
layer  of  fish  and  sauce.  Moisten  cracker  crumbs  in  melted  butter 
and  spread  over  the  top  with  a  fork.  Set  the  platter  in  the  oven 
over  a  pan  of  hot  water  to  keep  the  platter  from  cracking,  and 
bake  till  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

Mrs.  Alice  C.  Willson,  Lowell 

FRIED  SMELTS 

Clean  smelts,  but  leave  on  heads  and  tails.  Dip  in  a  batter 
(1  egg,  3^2  CUP  milk,  3^  cup  flour,  3^  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little 
pepper)  and  fry  either  in  deep  fat  or  in  a  spider  with  a  little  fat, 
from  three  to  five  minutes.  Mrs.  A.  C.  Tingley 

LOBSTER  NEWBURG 
1  good-sized  lobster  %  lb.  butter 

1  pint  light  cream  Salt  and  cayenne 

2  eggs 

Cut  lobster  into  small  pieces,  add  salt  and  dash  of  cayenne. 
Cook  five  or  ten  minutes  to  flavor,  add  cream;  after  beginning  to 
boil  stir  in  slowly  eggs  with  a  little  flour.  Serve  at  once  on  toast 
or  crackers.  This  is  good  with  a  large  can  of  crab  meat  instead  of 
lobster.  Mrs.  Arthur  H.  Lucia,  Medford 

DEVILED  LOBSTER 
For  2  lobsters,  each  23^  pounds. 

1  pint  cream  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  mustard 

Bit  of  cayenne,  salt  and  pepper  Scant  1  pint  bread  crumbs 


28 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Put  the  cream  on  to  boil.  Mix  butter,  flour,  mustard.  Add 
three  tablespoons  boiling  cream.  Stir  all  into  rest  of  the  cream 
and  cook  two  minutes.  Cut  lobster  meat  fine,  add  to  cream  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  boil  1  minute.  Turn  into  casserole,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  brown  twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Angus,  Andover 

SAUCE  FOR  LOBSTER 

Y/i  cup  melted  butter  1  tablespoon  French  mustard 

Vinegar  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

Salt  Red  pepper,  black  pepper 

Mix  together  using  vinegar  to  taste. 

Gretchen  B.  Noyes 

HOT  CREAMED  LOBSTER 

Pick  the  meat  from  a  good-sized  freshly-boiled  lobster  and  cut 
it  into  small  pieces.  Make  a  rich  cream  sauce,  adding  to  it  a 
teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  a  tablespoon  of  washed  capers,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  paprika,  a  chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  a  saltspoon  of  sugar 
and  salt  to  taste.  Add  the  chopped  lobster  to  the  hot  sauce  and 
let  it  stand  long  enough  to  heat  it  through.  Have  ready  slices  of 
crustless  toast,  buttered  and  placed  on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  the 
lobster  over  the  toast  and  garnish  it  with  boiled  potatoes  and 
parsley.  Crabmeat  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  if  lobster  is 
unavailable.  M.  M.  P. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

1  pint  oysters  10  rolled  common  crackers 

13^2  pints  milk  J'g  lb.  butter 

Pepper  and  salt 

Put  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  in  bottom  of  deep  dish,  then 
layer  of  oysters,  melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Wet  with  milk 
until  ingredients  are  used.  Use  some  of  the  cracker  crumb  mix¬ 
ture  with  butter  on  top  to  form  brown  crust  when  baked.  Let 
stand  until  crackers  are  well  soaked.  If  too  dry  add  a  little  more 
milk. 

Bake  slowly  one  hour.  Mrs.  H.  M.  Billings 

STEWED  OYSTERS 

1  quart  oysters  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  quarts  milk  A  dash  of  pepper  if  desired 

Put  oysters  in  double  boiler,  add  one  pint  cold  water,  set 
just  back  from  front  of  stove.  Put  one  cup  of  cold  water  in  stew 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


29 


kettle,  let  come  to  a  boil;  then  add  milk  and  salt.  By  the  time 
this  boils  the  oysters  should  have  commenced  to  curl  up.  If  so, 
pour  them  into  the  serving  dish  in  which  you  have  cut  a  generous 
piece  of  butter.  Add  hot  milk  and  serve. 

Hannah  J.  Chandler 

FRIED  CLAMS 

For  one  pint  of  clams.  Clean  the  clams  carefully,  taking  out 
the  black  part  from  the  stomach  and  cutting  off  the  black  part 
from  the  neck. 

Batter  for  frying : 

1  egg  well  beaten  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  clam  liquid  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

After  the  batter  is  beaten,  put  the  clams  in  so  they  will  be¬ 
come  well  covered  with  batter.  Have  the  fat  smoking  hot  and 
deep  like  doughnut  fat.  Drop  in  the  clams  one  at  a  time,  from  a 
fork.  Fry  as  brown  as  you  like.  Mrs.  G.  H.  Foster 

STIFLED  CLAMS 

Fry  out  three  or  four  slices  of  salt  pork.  Slice  into  this  a 
medium  sized  onion.  Add  a  pint  of  whole  clams  and  cover  with 
clam  water.  Cook  fifteen  minutes.  Thicken  with  flour  and  serve 
hot  with  potatoes. 

Sarah  A.  Dixon,  Ph.D.,  Hyannis,  Mass. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


Some  hae  meat  that  canna  eat 
And  some  wad  eat  that  want  it, 

But  we  hae  meat,  and  we  can  eat; 

So  let  the  Lord  be  thankit. 

— Robert  Burns 

ABOUT  MEATS 

The  object  in  cooking  meats  is  to  make  them  more  tender, 
juicy  and  appetizing  by  improving  the  flavor.  The  cheaper  cuts 
properly  cooked  have  as  much,  or  more,  nutriment  as  the  most 
expensive.  Stewing,  boiling,  braising,  the  meat  loaf,  cutlets, 
pot  roast,  etc.,  are  economical  ways  of  cooking  the  cheaper  pieces 
of  meat. 

A  stew  is  most  economical  and  nutritious.  The  pieces  best 
adapted  are  upper  part  of  shin,  aitchbone,  flank  and  shoulder.  It 
is  better  to  use  meat  that  has  some  fat  and  bone,  as  the  stew  is 
made  richer  by  their  use.  Less  water  is  used  in  stews  than  in 
soups,  as  part  of  the  nutriment  is  to  be  in  the  meat.  Start  with  the 
bones,  gristly  and  poorer  pieces  in  cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  a 
boil,  then  add  rest  of  the  meat  and  simmer  until  done.  The  neck 
or  forequarter  of  lamb  or  mutton,  the  knuckle  of  veal,  may  be 
used  in  stews  and  is  often  called  by  such  fanciful  names  as  ragout, 
haricot,  fricassee,  potpie,  or  salmi. 

Boiling .  In  boiling  meat  it  should  be  covered  with  boiling 
water,  boiled  rapidly  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  set  back 
where  it  will  just  simmer,  allowing  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound. 
Have  a  close  cover  to  keep  in  all  the  steam.  Smoked  and  salted 
meats  require  thirty  minutes  very  slow  boiling  to  each  pound; 
those  much  dried  in  smoking  should  be  soaked  over  night  in  cold 
water  to  cover.  Tough  pieces  of  meat  that  cannot  be  made  tender 
by  roasting  are  sometimes  steamed  till  tender,  then  browned  in 
the  oven,  a  nice  way  to  do  forequarter  of  mutton. 

For  Roasting  and  Broiling  select  the  choice,  tender  cuts,  be¬ 
cause  dry  heat  hardens  the  meat  fibre. 

Roasting.  Have  a  very  hot  oven  at  first,  in  order  to  sear  over 
the  outside  quickly  and  retain  the  juices,  then  reduce  the  heat. 
The  smaller  the  piece  to  be  roasted,  the  higher  the  heat  should  be. 
Baste  often. 

Broiling :  Best  cuts  are  sirloin,  rump,  top  of  round.  Broil 
over  a  clear  red  fire  with  open  dampers,  five  minutes  for  rare, 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


31 


six  minutes  for  well  done,  turning  every  ten  seconds  for  the  first 
minute,  afterwards  turning  occasionally,  till  done.  Do  not  salt 
until  done,  nor  pierce  with  a  fork,  as  juice  will  escape.  Pan 
broiling  is  done  in  hissing  hot  frying  pan  rubbed  with  a  little  of  the 
fat.  Sear  the  meat  quickly  on  one  side,  turn  and  sear  the  other, 
cook  about  four  minutes  for  rare,  turning  twice. 

Braising  is  a  sort  of  half  way  between  stew  and  roast,  an 
economical  way  of  cooking  large  pieces  of  tough  meat.  It  can  be 
done  in  a  covered  roaster  in  the  oven  with  slow,  steady  heat,  or  in 
casserole. 


TIME  TABLE  FOR  ROASTING 


First  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  to  heat  through,  then 
Beef,  rare,  ribs  or  sirloin,  per  pound,  12-15  minutes 

Beef,  well  done,  ribs  or  sirloin,  per  pound,  15-18  minutes 

Beef,  rolled  rib  or  rump,  per  pound  15-18  minutes 

Mutton,  rare  “  “  15  minutes 

Mutton,  well  done  “  “  18  minutes 

Lamb,  well  done  “  “  18  minutes 

Veal  “  “  20  minutes 

Pork  “  “  30  minutes 

Ham,  whole  4-6  hours 

Boiling 


Corned  meats 
Ox  tongue 

Ham,  12  to  14  pounds 


4-6  hours 

3- 4  hours 

4- 5  hours 


Broiling 

Steak,  one  inch  thick 

Steak,  one  and  one-half  inches  thick 

Lamb  chops 

Liver 


4-10  minutes 
8-12  minutes 
6-10  minutes 
4-5  minutes 


Breaded  chops 


Frying 


5-8  minutes 


VEAL  LOAF  I. 

Cut  four  pounds  veal  into  small  pieces,  taking  out  the  fat, 
one  slice  of  salt  pork  chopped  very  fine.  Add  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  pepper,  one  teaspoon  sage, 
one  teaspoon  sweet  marjoram,  two  beaten  eggs  and  three  crackers 
rolled  fine,  saving  out  two  tablespoons  of  the  cracker.  Mix  all 
thoroughly  and  make  into  a  loaf ;  place  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  with  the 
two  spoonfuls  of  cracker,  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  two  hours. 
Slice  when  cold.  Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

Mrs.  Joel  Baldwin 


32 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


BEEF  STEW 

Two  pounds  meat  cut  up,  put  on  to  cook  in  warm  water;  add 
three  onions,  one  pound  carrots,  small  turnip,  twelve  potatoes, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  When  nearly  done,  add  dumplings 
made  of  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  dry  yeast,  enough  milk  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Mrs.  Nelson  Brown 

EXCELLENT  MEAT  ROLL 

3  lbs.  chopped  beef  or  veal  3  well  beaten  eggs 

6  crackers  rolled  fine  1  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  sage  1  tablespoon  salt 

Mix  and  mould  into  a  loaf,  put  in  pan  with  hot  water  and  bits 
of  butter;  cover  and  bake  one  and  one-quarter  hours. 

Mrs.  Alice  Sawyer  Avery,  Peterboro,  N.H. 

DEVILED  HAM 

1  tablespoon  butter  melted  Pepper 

Add  1  tablespoon  flour  }/i  teaspoon  mustard 

1  teaspoon  vinegar  y2  cup  water 

Boil  and  add  1  cup  minced  ham.  Put  into  baking  dish  and 
break  over  the  top  three  eggs.  Bake  to  set  eggs. 

Mrs.  Alfred  E.  Chandler 

AMERICAN  CHOP  SUEY  I. 

1  lb.  Hamburg  steak  3  onions 

%  cup  macaroni  broken  (not  cooked) 

Fry  onions  in  bacon  fat.  Add  steak  and  cook;  then  add 
macaroni  cooked,  one-half  can  of  Campbell’s  tomato  soup  (or 
water  and  stewed  tomatoes).  Season  to  taste. 

Miss  Grant,  Danvers 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH 
1  cup  rice,  boiled  1  can  tomato  soup 

y2  lb.  Hamburg  steak  1  small  green  pepper 

1  small  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

Chop  pepper  and  onion  fine.  Mix  all  ingredients.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  two  hours  with  bits  of  butter  on  top. 

Jennie  F.  Blodgett,  Billerica 

PHILADELPHIA  SCRAPPLE 
One  and  one-half  pounds  fresh  fat  pork  boiled  two  hours  until 
thoroughly  cooked  in  sufficient  water.  Remove  meat  and  meas- 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


33 


ure  water.  To  three  cups  water  add  four  teaspoons  sage,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  salt,  pepper,  two-thirds  cup  corn  meal.  Let 
cook  together  thoroughly;  add  chopped  meat.  Pour  into  greased 
pan  and  set  aside.  When  cold,  slice  and  fry. 

M.  Howe,  Danvers 

TO  BOIL  HAM 

Cover  ham  well  with  water  under  the  boiling  point.  When  it 
boils  remove  pan  to  back  of  stove,  or  in  case  of  gas,  reduce  the 
heat  so  that  it  barely  boils.  Keep  well  covered  all  the  time  so  as 
to  keep  in  steam.  A  twelve-pound  ham  requires  six  hours  to  boil 
in  this  way.  When  done  let  cool  in  the  water  over  night.  Take 
up  in  baking  pan,  skin,  smooth  the  surface  with  knife,  stick  in 
whole  cloves,  dust  with  sugar  and  place  in  hot  oven  to  brown  for 
twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  Mrs.  H.  W.  Pillsbury 

ROAST  BEEF 

Scrape  with  knife,  wipe  with  dry  cloth,  but  do  not  wash. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  rub  with  butter,  dredge  with 
flour.  Put  in  pan,  use  no  water.  Have  the  oven  hot  and  allow 
eighteen  minutes  to  each  pound. 

POT  ROAST 

Four  to  six  pounds  under  part  of  round;  wipe  with  a  clean,  wet 
cloth.  Sear  all  over  in  hot  pan  until  whole  surface  is  browned. 
Put  in  kettle  with  one  cup  hot  water  and  set  where  it  will  cook 
very  slowly,  just  below  boiling  point.  Do  not  let  water  boil  en¬ 
tirely  away;  add  a  little  at  a  time,  enough  to  keep  from  burning; 
cooks  down  in  its  own  juice  at  last  and  is  very  nice,  sweet  and 
tender.  Add  salt  before  it  is  quite  done. 

Nellie  M.  Bailey,  Lakewood,  O. 

BEEF  LOAF 

Mix  together  one  pound  of  beef  (top  round  through  chopper), 
one  onion,  one-half  cup  rolled  oats,  six  ripe  olives  (or  stuffed  olives), 
one  cup  of  canned  tomatoes,  one  teaspoon  salt,  little  pepper. 

Put  mixture  in  greased  bread  pan  (glass  is  good)  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Small 

POTTED  SHANK  OF  VEAL 

Two  shanks  of  veal,  cook  very  tender;  remove  all  fat  and 
stringy  parts,  put  through  coarse  meat  grinder.  Add  one-quarter 


34 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


can  pimentos,  one  half  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs  coarsely  chopped, 
salt,  pepper  and  paprika,  one-quarter  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  celery  seed.  Boil  liquor  left  down  to  one  pint, 
mix,  put  in  mould  twelve  hours  on  ice. 

Mrs.  Johnston  B.  Campbell,  Washington,  D.  C. 

SPICED  BAKED  SLICED  HAM 
Slice  of  ham  one  and  one-half  to  two  inches  thick,  twenty -five 
whole  cloves,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  water,  two  tea¬ 
spoons  of  mustard,  one-quarter  cup  of  brown  sugar.  Sear  surface 
of  ham  in  hot  frying  pan.  Stick  in  cloves.  Put  in  baking  pan  and 
sprinkle  with  one-half  the  sugar.  Mix  remaining  sugar  with  vine¬ 
gar,  water  and  mustard.  Pour  liquid  mixture  over  ham.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  from  one  to  one  and  one-half  hours,  basting  fre¬ 
quently  with  the  sauce.  Place  ham  on  platter,  garnish  with  slices 
of  canned  pineapple  and  parsley. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Rockwood,  Franklin 

GOULASH  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS 
1  cup  shredded  onions  3^2  lb.  shredded  veal,  or  lean 

1  cup  shredded  green  peppers  beef 

1  pint  stock  1  piece  salt  pork  cut  fine 

Fry  out  the  salt  pork  and  saute  the  onions,  green  peppers  and 
meat  in  this  fat.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  flour,  salt  and  paprika. 
Mix  thoroughly,  add  the  stock,  cooking  until  the  meat  is  soft. 
This  is  tasty  and  cheap.  Filene  Kitchen 

BRUNSWICK  STEW 

2  lbs.  neck  beef  cut  into  two  pieces  1  can  of  tomatoes 

3  potatoes  pared  and  sliced  1  pint  water 

1  can  corn  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  two  hours.  It’s  fine. 

CORNED  BEEF 

If  very  salt,  soak  half  hour  in  cold  water.  Put  on  to  boil  in 
fresh  cold  water  enough  to  cover,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  skim 
occasionally.  Simmer  until  tender  and  let  the  meat  stand  in  the 
water  until  cold.  If  liked,  pick  the  cooked  meat  to  pieces  and 
press  in  a  large  bread  pan  under  a  board  with  a  weight. 

NEW  ENGLAND  BOILED  DINNER 
A  fancy  brisket,  well  corned,  and  cooked  as  recommended 
under  “Corned  Beef”  together  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork,  is  the 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


35 


foundation.  The  fat  is  all  skimmed  from  the  liquor  in  which  the 
meat  was  boiled,  and  about  two  hours  before  dinner  time  the 
vegetables  are  put  into  the  boiling  kettle  and  cooked  until  tender. 
Carrots,  cabbage,  parsnips,  turnips  are  used,  and  one  hour  before 
dinner,  potatoes  are  added.  Beets  are  generally  boiled  alone,  as 
they  color  the  other  vegetables. 

The  method  of  serving  is  to  put  it  all  on  one  large  platter,  the 
meat  in  center  surrounded  by  the  vegetables  neatly  arranged. 
This  dinner  is  excellent  served  cold  the  next  day  and  the  remainder 
makes  a  fine  vegetable  hash,  for  which  use  as  much  potato  as  of 
all  the  other  vegetables  together,  and  beef  enough  to  make  a  back¬ 
ground  for  the  vegetables.  It  should  be  chopped  fine  and  moistened 
with  pot  liquor,  or  milk  and  served  very  hot. 

Hood’s  Practical  Cook  Book 

HUNTER’S  STEW 

Take  one  pound  bottom  of  round  steak,  cut  in  four  or  five 
pieces,  brown  well  on  both  sides  in  a  hot  frying  pan.  Also 
brown  in  the  same  way  four  large  whole  onions,  and  a  large  carrot, 
cut  lengthwise  into  four  pieces.  Turn  all  into  a  small  kettle. 
Brown  in  frying  pan  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  hot  water,  butter  size  of  walnut,  let  it  thicken  and 
strain  over  the  meat  and  vegetables  in  kettle.  Shake  salt  cellar 
four  times  over  it,  then  let  simmer,  closely  covered,  for  two  hours 
or  more.  This  is  a  truly  delicious  English  dish. 

Mrs.  John  Dupee 

VEAL  LOAF  II. 

3J4  lbs.  veal  34  teaspoon  of  mace 

34  lb.  fat  salt  pork  Salt,  pepper,  sage  to  taste 

6  large  crackers  Juice  of  half  lemon 

2  eggs 

Chop  together  the  veal  and  pork,  add  crackers,  rolled  fine, 
the  eggs  and  seasoning;  mix  thoroughly,  shape  like  a  loaf  of  bread, 
place  in  a  shallow  tin  with  a  little  water,  dredge  with  flour,  dot 
with  bits  of  butter.  Cook  two  to  two  and  a  half  hours  in  moderate 
oven,  basting  often.  Serve  cold  in  thin  slices,  garnished  with 
green  and  slices  of  lemon.  May  use  one-half  cup  of  melted  butter  in 
place  of  pork.  Left-overs  of  beef  are  nice  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

FRIED  SALT  PORK  WITH  MILK  GRAVY 

Cut  the  pork  in  very  thin  slices  and  fry  in  a  hot  pan  until 
crisp  and  brown.  Take  out  pork,  pour  off  all  but  three  tablespoons 


36 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


of  the  fat  and  into  this  rub  two  tablespoons  flour.  Add  one  cup  of 
water  slowly,  boil  well;  add  one  cup  milk.  Nice  with  baked  po¬ 
tatoes.  A  Vermont  dish. 

HAM  BALLS 

1  cup  ham  finely  chopped  1  cup  very  soft  boiled  rice 

1  beaten  egg 

Shape  like  fish  balls,  roll  in  flour  and  fry.  Nice  way  to  use 
the  last  bits  of  boiled  ham.  Mrs.  F.  W.  Sears,  Brockton 

CHOP  SUEY 

One  pound  fresh  pork  from  shoulder,  cut  in  small  bits,  one 
pound  veal  from  leg;  mix  together  and  fry  slowly  half  an  hour. 
Add  two  level  tablespoons  dark  brown  molasses  and  fry  ten  min¬ 
utes  more.  Add  pinch  of  salt  while  frying,  then  add  two  cups 
chopped  celery,  two  cups  chopped  onion  and  two  tablespoons  of 
the  Chinese  sauce  (“Sho  Yu”);  add  water  to  right  consistency 
and  thicken  with  flour.  Boil  up  and  serve  with  dry  rice  or  noodles. 

Rule  obtained  from  a  Chinaman  in  Los  Angeles. 

Mrs.  R.  P.  Dinsmore 


BAKED  PORK  CHOPS 

Wipe  pork  chops  and  place  on  a  trivet  in  a  roasting  pan. 
Make  a  dressing  of  crumbs,  onion  and  spice.  Put  a  ball  of  dressing 
on  each  chop.  Bake  in  an  oven  thirty  minutes. 


FLANK  STEAK  BRAISED  WITH  VEGETABLES 
Beat  the  steak  well  with  a  hammer.  Dredge  well  with  flour 
and  lay  in  baking  pan.  Over  it  place  a  thick  layer  of  thinly  sliced 
raw  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  onion.  Pour  over  this 
two  cups  stewed  tomatoes,  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  in  oven 
two  and  a  half  to  three  hours.  One-half  hour  before  the  meat  is 
done,  remove  the  cover,  add  water  as  necessary,  and  leave  it  to 
cook  uncovered.  In  serving,  place  it  whole  on  a  platter  and  cut 
down  as  through  a  loaf.  Gertrude  E.  Bailey 


LAZY  ROAST 


2J/2  lbs.  chuck  rib  of  beef 

1 
1 
1 
1 


1  tablespoon  bread  crumbs 

can  peas  1  tablespoon  tapioca 

large  carrot  1  tablespoon  salt 

onion  chopped  fine  1  clove 

teaspoon  vinegar  A  few  slices  of  turnip 

Put  into  a  beanpot  with  cover,  fill  it  up  with  water,  bake  five 
hours  in  moderate  oven.  About  one  hour  before  serving,  add  one 
cup  hot  water,  no  other  attention  required. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


37 


FRIED  PICKLED  TRIPE 

Soak  for  one  hour  in  tepid  water,  then  dry  carefully  in  a 
towel.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  lightly  in  flour,  and  fry  to  a  golden 
brown  in  half  butter  and  half  lard  or  in  nice  pork  fat.  Tripe  is 
also  nice  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper,  broiled  over  a  clear  fire 
and  served  with  melted  butter.  Also,  soaked  ten  minutes  in  olive 
oil,  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper,  dipped  in  fritter  batter  and 
fried  in  deep  fat. 

BREADED  VEAL 

Beat  one  egg  light ;  dip  one  slice  of  veal  steak  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  bread  crumbs.  Have  a  generous  piece  of  butter  melted  in 
warm  spider,  lay  steak  in  and  cook  slowly  for  one-half  hour;  turn 
steak  once,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 

Mrs.  R.  P.  Dinsmore 

BEEF  MEAT  LOAF 

2  lbs.  beef  (round)  1  pt.  milk 

1  lb.  fresh  pork,  ground  2  eggs 

lb.  suet  3  slices  bread,  ground 

Salt,  pepper  1  even  teaspoon  mustard 

}/2  grated  onion 

Mix  well,  pack  in  bread  tin,  set  in  hot  water.  Bake  one  and 
one-half  hours.  Pour  off  juice  and  thicken  for  gravy. 

M.  Howe,  Danvers 


BEEF  LOAF 

1  lb.  Hamburg  steak  onion  cut  fine 

y2  cup  milk  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

2  teaspoons  salt  2  teaspoons  Bell’s  seasoning 

1  egg 

Bake  about  forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  S.  Elizabeth  Blodgett,  Billerica 

ESCALLOPED  MEAT  WITH  BREAD  CRUMBS 
1  cup  chopped  cooked  meat  2  cups  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  tomato,  raw  or  cooked 

Mix,  add  butter  size  of  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
enough  hot  water  to  moisten  thoroughly.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  dotted  with 
butter.  Bake  until  brown.  Miss  L.  E.  Rogers 

STEW 

One  and  one-half  pounds  round  steak.  Pound  all  the  flour 
into  it  that  you  can.  Sear  on  both  sides.  Cut  into  small  pieces, 


38 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


cover  with  water  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Boil  two  small 
onions  in  water  ten  minutes,  pour  off  water  and  add  onions  to 
stew.  Just  before  it  is  done,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  two  or 
three  medium  potatoes  sliced,  and  three-quarters  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  sauce.  Nellie  M.  Bailey,  Lakewood,  O. 

DELICATE  HAM 

Rub  into  a  thick  slice  of  raw  ham  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  dry  mustard.  Cover  with  one  cup  milk.  Bake  one  hour. 
This  is  delicious.  G.  E.  B. 

HAM 

When  it  commences  to  boil,  mix  together  and  add  two  heaping 
teaspoons  mustard,  one-quarter  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  vine¬ 
gar.  Then  put  in  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves  to  give  flavor.  This 
receipt  used  by  an  old  Salem  family. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Beckerman 
Miss  Stanley 

AMERICAN  CHOP  SUEY  II. 

Fry  salt  pork.  In  the  fat  fry  two  medium  onions  for  five 
minutes,  add  one  pound  Hamburg  steak,  one-half  package  cooked 
macaroni,  one  pint  tomatoes,  a  little  chopped  celery.  Place 
cracker  crumbs  on  top  dotted  with  butter,  and  bake  thirty  min¬ 
utes.  Mrs.  Edwin  Manning 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING 

Beat  three  eggs  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  add  1  pint  of  milk  and 
two-thirds  cup  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  then  pour  in  a  well 
greased  pan  and  bake  until  done.  Serve  with  roast  beef.  It  is 
sometimes  baked  in  the  same  pan  with  the  roast. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Lyons 

LAMB  STEW 

\}/2  lbs.  lamb  or  mutton  2  cups  carrots 

Use  lamb  or  mutton  from  shoulder,  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  slowly  without  boiling  for  four  to 
six  hours.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  meal  time,  add  the 
carrots,  pared  and  cut  into  one-half  inch  pieces.  When  done 
thicken  the  gravy  with  two  tablespoons  flour.  Serve  on  a  large 
platter  with  a  border  of  boiled  rice. 

POT  ROAST 

Place  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  bean  pot, 
then  put  in  a  piece  of  beef  cut  from  the  round  weighing  about  two 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


39 


pounds.  Add  an  onion  sliced  thin,  salt  and  pepper,  and  enough 
water  to  cover  the  meat.  Bake  slowly  three  hours,  then  remove 
the  meat,  thicken  the  gravy,  strain  and  serve. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Foster 

RUSSIAN  CASSEROLE 
4  lbs.  round  steak  4  large  onions 

4  large  carrots  2  tablespoons  butter 

Put  butter  in  spider  with  meat,  brown  on  all  sides,  then  pour 
enough  water  in  spider  to  cover.  Now  place  in  covered  casserole 
and  bake  four  hours,  putting  the  sliced  onions  and  sliced  carrots 
in  so  as  to  cook  about  two  hours.  Place  on  platter  and  pour  over 
the  thickened  gravy.  Mrs.  Sarah  V.  Livermore,  Lowell 

BEEF  LOAF 

1  lb.  Hamburg  steak  1  teaspoon  salt 

34  teaspoon  pepper  1  cup  milk 

1  egg  Small  piece  of  butter 

2  crackers  rolled  fine 

Mix  together,  put  in  buttered  pan  and  put  dressing  on  top, 
made  of: 

1  cup  rolled  crackers  3^  CUP  milk 

A  little  salt,  pepper,  sage  or  3^  CUP  water 

poultry  seasoning. 

Dot  the  top  with  pieces  of  butter,  and  bake  one  hour.  A  can 
of  vegetable  soup  poured  over  is  a  great  improvement. 

Rena  M.  Trull 

SMOTHERED  HAM 

Soak  slices  of  ham  in  tepid  water  until  sufficiently  freshened, 
dredge  with  flour,  put  in  a  shallow  pan  and  bake  in  the  oven  till  the 
fat  is  brown  and  crisp.  If  the  dredging  of  flour  is  not  too  much, 
the  steam  and  liquid  from  the  ham  will  moisten  the  flour  and  make 
a  puffy  crust  that  keeps  the  meat  soft  and  tender.  This  way  of 
cooking  sliced  ham  is  really  very  nice.  Garnish  with  crushed 
pineapple  mounds. 

TOAD  IN  THE  HOLE 

1  cup  chopped  ham  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

Add  to  a  custard  made  of  two  eggs  and  one  pint  milk;  place 
in  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  as  a  custard. 

BAKED  SPARE  RIBS 

Put  spare  ribs  in  cold  water  and  let  cook  for  almost  an  hour. 
Into  a  baking  dish  put  a  layer  of  raw,  sliced  potatoes,  then  a  layer 


40 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


of  raw,  sliced  onions.  Lay  the  spare  ribs  on  this  and  finish  the 
dish  with  another  layer  of  onions  and  the  top  layer  of  potatoes. 
Add  enough  water  to  half  fill  dish,  and  bake  one  hour,  covered  the 
first  half  hour.  Serve  boiled  cabbage  with  it. 

VEAL  LOAF  III. 

33^2  lbs.  veal  steak  2  eggs  beaten 

1  slice  fat  salt  pork  chopped  fine  4  crackers 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  teaspoon  pepper 

Put  into  bread  pan  after  ingredients  are  well  mixed.  Sprinkle 
with  fine  bread  crumbs.  Bake  two  hours.  Can  be  served  hot  with 
tomato  sauce,  or  sliced  when  cold.  Mrs.  O.  H.  Nichols 

BAKED  SLICED  HAM 

One  slice  (about  two  pounds)  ham  cut  two  inches  thick. 
Cover  with  water  and  let  stand  several  hours.  Drain,  and  put  in 
baking  dish  with  three  teaspoons  sugar,  three  teaspoons  mustard. 
Cover  with  milk,  let  stand  over  night  if  wanted  for  breakfast. 
Bake  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours,  adding  extra  milk  while 
baking,  and  baste  often.  Strain  liquid,  add  little  thickening  and 
serve  with  the  ham.  Miss  Harris,  Orange,  Mass. 

HAMBURG  EN  CASSEROLE 
1  lb.  Hamburg  steak  1  onion  shredded 

1  cup  cooked  rice  1  cup  canned  tomatoes 

(Turn  off  the  liquid) 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  mix  well  before  putting  in 
casserole:  bake  about  forty-five  minutes.  A  nice  variation  is  to 
use  the  same  amount  of  Hamburg,  two  cups  cooked  spaghetti, 
two  cups  tomato  soup,  one  cup  water,  one  teaspoon  vinegar,  onion 
same  as  above,  also  salt  and  pepper.  Sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  on 
top  and  bake  one  hour  in  open  tin.  Mrs.  R.  P.  Dinsmore 

CALIFORNIA  SETTLERS’  STEW 

1  lb.  Hamburg  steak  2  medium  sized  onions 

1  can  tomato  soup 

Chop  onions,  add  to  steak,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  form 
into  balls  and  fry.  To  the  tomato  soup  add  equal  amount  of  water, 
bring  to  a  boil,  add  the  meat  balls  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
with  boiled  rice  or  mashed  potatoes. 

Mrs.  Sarah  V.  Livermore 

POTTED  MEAT 

Ten  pounds  shank  of  beef.  Boil  till  the  meat  leaves  the  bone, 
or  five  or  six  hours.  Boil  the  liquor  down  until  you  have  about  a 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


41 


pint.  Chop  the  meat3  add  the  liquor,  then  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Put  meat  in  moulds  and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  over 
night,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Mrs.  George  W.  Foster 

BACON 

Dip  thin  slices  of  bacon  into  sweet  milk,  then  into  flour,  and 
fry  in  a  little  hot  fat. 

HAM  EN  CASSEROLE 

Soak  a  slice  of  ham  to  freshen  and  place  in  bottom  of  casserole. 
Over  it  slice  two  or  three  onions  and  sufficient  potatoes  for  the 
number  to  be  served.  Pour  milk  over  to  nearly  cover  the  potatoes, 
and  bake  covered  for  two  hours  in  a  medium  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Bennett,  Medford  Hillside 

ROAST  PIG 

The  pig  should  be  from  three  to  six  weeks  old.  Wash  in  warm 
water,  then  in  soda  and  water.  Cleanse  all  the  passages  of  the 
head  and  throat  with  a  wooden  skewer  wrapped  in  a  piece  of  soft 
cloth,  changing  often.  Wash  again  with  warm  water  and  wipe 
inside.  It  may  be  filled  with  mashed  potatoes,  veal  forcemeat  or  a 
stuffing.  Stuff  pig  into  its  natural  size  and  shape,  sew  and  truss. 
Bend  the  forefeet  backward  from  the  knee  and  the  hind  legs  for¬ 
ward.  Prop  mouth  open  with  a  potato  the  size  of  a  lemon.  Set 
in  moderate  oven  at  first  and  increase  heat  gradually.  In  half  an 
hour  begin  basting,  using  melted  butter  until  there  is  enough  fat 
from  pig.  Brush  thoroughly  once  in  ten  minutes.  Cover  ears  and 
tail  with  caps  of  oiled  paper.  Serve  in  bed  of  parsley  with  a  lemon 
in  the  mouth.  Mrs.  H.  B.  Treadwell 

TO  SERVE  WITH  MEATS 
Roast  beef,  grated  horseradish 
Roast  veal,  tomato  or  horseradish  sauce 
Roast  mutton,  currant  jelly 
Roast  pork,  apple  sauce 
Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce 
Roast  turkey,  cranberry  jelly 
Roast  venison,  grape  jelly 
Cold  boiled  tongue,  sauce  tartare 
Pork  sausage,  fried  apples 
Corned  beef,  mustard 
Broiled  steak,  mushrooms 
Tripe,  fried  bacon 


42 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


ROAST  CHICKEN  WITH  GIBLET  GRAVY 
Clean  the  chicken,  wash  thoroughly  and  wipe  dry.  Now  fill 
chicken  with  the  following  dressing: 

4  cups  dried  bread  crumbs  2  slices  salt  pork 

Put  both  the  above  through  the  food  chopper;  add  one  egg 
'beaten,  salt,  pepper  and  ground  sage  to  taste.  Moisten  with 
boiling  water,  using  care  not  to  have  it  too  moist.  Put  into  chicken 
while  still  hot. 

Giblet  Gravy 

Boil  neck  and  giblets  in  just  enough  water  to  cover.  When 
done,  remove  meat  from  neck  and  chop  with  the  giblets.  Add 
to  the  gravy  in  the  roaster  with  the  water  they  were  boiled  in. 
Thicken  with  flour.  Add  a  little  Kitchen  Bouquet  to  color  brown, 
if  necessary.  Blanche  King 

POULTRY  DRESSING 

3  cups  bread  softened  in  milk  1  egg  2  onions 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

Salt,  pepper  and  poultry  dressing  to  taste. 

Mrs.  John  Lyons 

NICE  WAY  TO  COOK  CHICKEN 
Joint  the  chicken  and  fry  in  pork  fat  until  brown.  Remove 
chicken  and  add  one  tablespoon  chopped  onion  browned  in  the 
fat.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  brown,  then  add  one  pint  of 
hot  water  for  gravy;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  one- 
half  cup  of  strained  tomato.  Lay  chicken  in  gravy,  then  cover 
and  cook  slowly  till  tender.  Mrs.  Alden  Haines 

BALTIMORE  CHICKEN 

Cut  chicken  in  pieces  for  serving,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  or  dredge  with  flour. 

Arrange  in  baking  dish,  baste  with  melted  butter,  cook  in 
hot  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or  until  tender. 

Mrs.  Harry  L.  Mann 

BROWN  FRICASSEE  CHICKEN 
Cut  chicken  into  joints,  put  in  sauce-pan  and  boil  until  nearly 
done,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Remove  and  finish  cooking  by 
frying  in  butter.  Place  chicken  on  platter,  arrange  small  soda 
biscuits  on  top.  Pour  water  chicken  was  boiled  in,  into  the  hot  fry 
pan,  thicken  with  flour  and  pour  over  the  chicken  and  biscuits. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


43 


ROAST  GOOSE 

Select  a  plump  goose,  clean  and  dry  thoroughly  in  the  inside, 
then  fill  with  dressing  made  from: 

9  large  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  3  crackers  ground 
3  onions  cut  fine  tablespoons  sage 

Butter  size  of  walnut  Salt  to  taste 

Flour  breast  thoroughly  and  place  in  slow  oven  until  it  com¬ 
mences  to  brown,  then  quicken  oven.  Prick  breast  every  fifteen 
minutes  with  sharp  fork  to  remove  oil.  Do  not  baste  with  this 
oily  water,  but  with  a  little  clear  water;  cook  until  tender. 

Mrs.  John  J.  Young 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

Cooked  chicken,  chopped  fine;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  few  drops  onion  juice.  Moisten  with  a  sauce  made  of  two 
heaping  tablespoons  cornstarch,  two  tablespoons  butter  and  one 
pint  of  milk;  salt,  pepper  and  one  beaten  egg.  Cook  until  it 
thickens;  mix  with  chicken,  cool,  shape,  roll  in  crumbs,  dip  in  egg, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Mrs.  Alden  Haines 

ROAST  GOOSE 

Select  a  young  goose  and  parboil  well.  Make  a  bread  dressing 
as  for  turkey,  adding  two  large  onions  chopped  fine.  Roast  same 
as  turkey,  slowly.  Mrs.  Arthur  H.  Lucia 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

Fry  together  butter  size  of  egg  and  one  small  onion,  add  two 
and  one-half  cups  cold,  finely  chopped  chicken,  one  slice  of  bread 
soaked  in  cold  water  and  squeezed  dry,  one  tablespoon  parsley, 
little  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper,  one  well  beaten  egg,  two,  if  in¬ 
gredients  seem  too  dry. 

Make  in  little  rolls  two  or  three  inches  long  by  an  inch  in 
diameter.  Dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  hot 
fat  until  brown.  Handle  carefully  so  as  not  to  break,  for  if  they 
fall  apart  they  will  soak  fat.  The  parsley  may  be  omitted,  if 
necessary,  but  it  adds  greatly  to  the  flavor. 

Mrs.  Alice  L.  King 

CHICKEN  PIE 

Boil  a  chicken;  when  done  remove  meat  from  bones.  Place 
in  baking  dish  with  just  enough  of  the  water  it  was  boiled  in  to 
cover.  Thicken  slightly  with  flour.  Cover  with  a  crust  made  a& 


44 


The  Home-Makers  Cookbook 


for  biscuits.  Cut  an  opening  in  the  center  of  the  crust  for  the  steam 
to  escape.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  CASSEROLE 
Wash  and  clean  chicken.  Cut  in  convenient  pieces,  place 
around  casserole,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  poultry  dressing; 
sprinkle  all  over  with  flour,  brown  good  before  adding  water 
enough  to  cover.  Bake  until  tender,  then  add  two  or  three  cups 
of  any  good  poultry  stuffing  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
longer.  Push  the  chicken  to  one  side  of  casserole  to  make  room 
for  stuffing.  Mrs.  George  Brock 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

1  cold  cooked  fowl  ^/i  cups  celery 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  fowl;  dice,  and  mix  with  the 
celery  which  has  been  cut  in  small  pieces;  let  stand  one-half  hour. 
Then  serve  on  lettuce  with  a  Mayonnaise  dressing,  garnish  with 
stuffed  olives,  although  this  may  be  omitted. 

BONED  CHICKEN 

Boil  a  chicken  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  until  meat  will  fall 
from  the  bone.  Remove  all  skin,  chop  together  light  and  dark 
meat,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  down  liquid  in  which 
chicken  was  boiled.  Then  pour  it  on  meat,  placing  in  tin  wrapped 
tightly  in  cloth.  Press  with  heavy  weight  for  several  hours. 
Serve  cold,  cut  in  thin  slices.  Mrs.  Alden  Haines 


SAUCES 


TOMATO  SAUCE 

One  can  tomato,  one  can  water.  Cook  until  soft,  strain. 
Two  tablespoons  butter  (rounded);  cook  until  light  brown.  One 
small  onion,  two  tablespoons  flour  added  to  tomato.  Serve  with 
spaghetti.  Mrs.  H.  B.  Howard,  Reading 

WHITE  CREAM  SAUCE 

To  be  served  with  boiled  halibut  or  salmon:  two  tablespoons 
heated  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour  added  to  butter  and  mixed 
well.  Add  boiling  water  so  it  looks  like  pudding.  Add  milk  until 
it  is  creamy.  Cook  in  double  boiler  and  add  two  hard-boiled  eggs 
chopped  or  cut  in  small  pieces.  Mrs.  Chester  Trull 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

34  cup  heavy  cream  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

34  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  grated  horse¬ 

radish 

Beat  cream  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  vinegar  slowly, 
beating  continually.  When  stiff,  add  horseradish.  Serve  with 
roast  beef.  A.  J.  Whittredge 

WHITE  SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 

34  tablespoon  flour  34  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  mixed  with  seasonings,  stirring  until 
thoroughly  blended.  Pour  on  the  milk  one-third  at  a  time,  stirring 
until  well  mixed.  Cook  until  smooth;  milk  may  be  used  cold  or 
scalded.  Mrs.  Fred  Briggs 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE 
1  pt.  hot  water  or  white  stock  2  tablespoons  flour 

34  cup  butter  (scant)  34  teaspoon  salt 

34  saltspoon  pepper 

Put  half  the  butter  in  sauce-pan,  being  careful  not  to  brown; 
when  melted  add  dry  flour,  mixing  well.  Add  hot  water  a  little  at 
a  time,  stirring  rapidly  until  it  thickens.  Add  remainder  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper;  strain  if  lumpy. 

Capers  or  nasturtium  seeds  pickled,  may  be  added  to  above 
sauce  for  boiled  mutton. 


46 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


EGG  SAUCE  FOR  BAKED  OR  BOILED  FISH 
To  Drawn  Butter  Sauce  add  two  or  three  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine,  and  juice  and  pulp  of  one  large  lemon,  together  with 
chicken  liver  previously  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 

SHRIMP  SAUCE  FOR  FISH 
To  Butter  Sauce  add  one-half  pint  shrimps  whole  or  chopped; 
two  teaspoons  lemon  juice  and  few  grains  cayenne. 

MINT  SAUCE 

One  cup  fresh  chopped  mint  leaves  and  tips,  previously  washed 
and  drained.  One-quarter  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar.  Heat 
slightly  or  let  the  mint  stand  awhile  in  the  cold  vinegar.  Serve 
with  cold  lamb. 

SAUCE  TARTARE 

1  tablespoon  capers  chopped  fine  1  tablespoon  parsley  chopped 
1  tablespoon  sour  cucumber  pickles  fine 

chopped  fine  1  tablespoon  olives  (stoned) 

chopped  fine 

Add  a  little  onion  juice  and  stir  all  into  Mayonnaise.  To  be 
used  with  any  fried  fish,  crabs,  etc. 

Miss  Evelyn  Johnson,  Dracut 

CHEESE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH 
1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1  cup  milk  Salt  and  paprika 

Bring  to  boil  and  add  one  beaten  egg. 

Mrs.  Howard  Foster 

CURRY  SAUCE  FOR  LAMB  OR  HARD  BOILED  EGGS 

2  tablespoons  butter  in  which  fry  until  yellow: 

1  onion  sliced  very  thin  }/^  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  ^  teaspoon  curry  powder 

1  cup  milk  3^  teaspoon  salt 

Mrs.  Foster 

RAISIN  SAUCE 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins  1  heaping  teaspoon  butter 

Cook  in  1  qt.  water  about  1  hr.  Salt  to  taste 

Thicken  with  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Serve  hot  on  hot  baked  ham.  Mrs.  Hugh  Cameron 


VEGETABLES 


Lucullus,  whom  frugality  could  charm, 

Ate  roasted  turnips  at  the  Sabine  farm. 

— Caesar 


Vegetables  have  little  nourishment,  but  are  valuable  for  the 
large  amount  of  water  and  mineral  matter  contained,  and  for  their 
bulkiness  or  roughage  in  the  diet.  Green  vegetables  should  be 
cooked  as  soon  as  possible  after  gathered,  should  be  washed 
thoroughly  in  cold  water  and  cooked  in  boiling  water.  If  they  have 
become  wilted,  they  may  sometimes  be  freshened  by  standing  in 
cold  water  an  hour  or  so  in  a  dark  place.  Green  vegetables  keep 
their  color  better  if  boiled  rapidly  in  salted  water,  uncovered.  Be¬ 
fore  using  lettuce,  cabbage  or  cauliflower,  wash  thoroughly,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt.  If  any  insects  are 
there,  they  will  crawl  out,  and  the  vegetables  will  become  crisp  and 
fresh  also.  Vegetables  like  carrots,  turnips,  squash  and  peas,  are 
improved  by  adding  one  teaspoon  sugar  to  the  water  in  which 
boiled. 


TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES 


Asparagus 

30-35  minutes 

String  beans 

2-3  hours 

Shell  beans 

1-2  hours 

Young  beets 

45-60  minutes 

Old  beets 

Forever,  5  hours,  at  least 

Young  cabbage 

30-45  minutes 

Young  carrots 

45-60  minutes 

Cauliflower 

20-30  minutes 

Celery 

30-45  minutes 

Corn  (after  it  begins) 

5-8  minutes 

Onions 

1  hour 

Parsnips 

30-45  minutes 

Peas 

20-30  minutes 

Macaroni 

25-30  minutes 

Brussels  sprouts 

15-20  minutes 

Potatoes 

20-30  minutes 

Rice 

15-20  minutes 

Spinach 

20-30  minutes 

Squash 

20-30  minutes 

48 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


Winter  vegetables  1-2  hours 

Tomatoes  15-20  minutes 

Young  turnips  30-45  minutes 

(In  boiling  beets  keep  them  covered  with  water.) 

BAKED  BEANS 

Pick  over  one  quart  California  pea  beans,  soak  over  night. 
Drain  and  put  in  bean  pot  with  one  half  pound  of  pork  (the  rind 
neatly  scored)  and  a  mixing  spoon  of  molasses.  Bake  all  day,  at 
least  seven  hours,  filling  up  with  hot  water  as  it  cooks  away. 
Never  add  enough  so  you  can  more  than  just  see  the  water  or  the 
beans  will  be  sloppy.  The  pork  should  be  so  placed  that  the  rind 
just  appears  at  the  top  of  the  bean  pot.  Have  a  new,  hot,  steady 
fire  for  baking  beans.  Mrs.  Edwin  Blodgett,  Billerica 

BEETS  WITH  LEMON  BUTTER  SAUCE 

Skin  and  chop  into  small  pieces  cooked  beets.  Season  well 
with  salt,  melted  butter  and  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

CREAMED  CARROTS 

Six  carrots  diced,  cook  till  tender,  drain,  add  one  cup  milk, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one-half  teaspoon 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

NEW  WRINKLE 

Two  carrots  cut  into  small  cubes,  two  white  turnips  cut  in 
small  cubes,  one  can  peas.  Cook  each  separately,  then  mix,  add 
butter  and  salt. 

BAKED  BANANAS 

Cut  lengthwise,  put  into  buttered  tins.  Take  juice  of  one 
lemon,  one  tablespoon  butter,  sugar  to  taste,  melt  all  together, 
pour  over  bananas,  bake  one-half  hour.  Serve  with  meats. 

MASHED  POTATOES 

One-quarter  cup  butter  melted  in  bi  cup  milk  for  each  quart 
and  beat  until  fluffy. 

BEET  GREENS 

Wash  greens  carefully.  Cook  one  hour  or  more,  until  tender 
in  boiling  salted  water.  Season  with  butter  and  pepper. 

POTATO  CAKES 

Mix  left  over  mashed  potatoes  with  such  scraps  of  meat, 
dressing  and  gravy  as  may  be  on  hand.  Add  bread  crumbs  to 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


49 


make  the  mixture  stiff  enough  to  form  into  cakes.  Brown  cakes  on 
both  sides  in  hot  greased  pan.  If  no  meat  is  on  hand  use  a  little 
bacon  or  salt  pork. 

BAKED  PEPPERS 

Cut  stem  end  off,  scoop  out  seeds,  place  in  cold  water,  let 
come  to  a  boil;  when  they  have  boiled  fifteen  minutes  drain,  fill 
with  either  stuffing  preferred,  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  each  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  pretty  hot  oven. 

FILLING  FOR  BAKED  PEPPERS 

1 .  Mince  teacup  cooked  meat,  add  one-half  cup  bread  crumbs, 
salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  beaten 
egg,  stock  or  water  to  moisten. 

2.  Cooked  macaroni  or  spaghetti  sprinkled  with  cheese,  one 
spoonful  of  tomato  sauce  added,  then  sprinkled  with  crumbs. 
Baste  with  a  little  butter  in  warm  water  while  cooking. 

3.  Alix  one  cup  cooked  corn  with  three  tablespoons  cracker 
crumbs,  add  salt,  pepper,  one  egg  beaten  with  one-half  cup  milk. 

Use  only  sweet  peppers  for  this  dish,  and  choose  those  with 
thick  pulp  and  thin  skin. 

SCALLOPED  CABBAGE 

Fill  your  baking  dish  with  raw  cabbage,  shaved  or  chopped, 
cover  with  thin  white  sauce,  sprinkle  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs. 
Bake  about  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

M.  B.  Nichols,  Hathorne 

TURNIPS 

Cook  first  for  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  which  a  little 
baking  soda  has  been  added,  then  drain  and  cook  in  fresh  water 
until  tender.  The  flavor  will  be  much  improved  when  cooked  in 
this  way. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

Peel  and  slice  raw  potatoes  thin.  Butter  an  earthen  dish,  put 
in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  a  bit  of 
chopped  onion.  Sprinkle  on  a  little  flour.  Now  put  on  another 
layer  of  potatoes  and  seasoning,  and  continue  in  this  way  until  the 
dish  is  filled.  Pour  over  it  one  cup  milk,  and  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 

CREAMED  SQUASH 

Peel  and  cut  squash  in  pieces.  Add  one  cup  hot  water,  one 
scant  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Cook  until  tender  and 


50 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


dry,  then  mash,  add  two  tablespoons  cream.  The  secret  of  suc¬ 
cess  is  adding  the  butter  while  cooking,  and  in  boiling  the  water 
away  instead  of  pouring  it  off. 

SPINACH 

Does  not  need  water  in  which  to  cook.  Wash  it  well  through 
several  waters  and  throw  into  a  sauce  pan  without  draining.  The 
water  that  adheres  to  the  leaves  and  the  juices  that  the  heat  draws 
from  them  will  be  sufficient.  Cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes, 
chop,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  reheat.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg. 

Used  many  years  in  the  Bailey  family. 

BAKED  POTATOES 

Try  peeling  potatoes  before  putting  in  the  oven  to  bake. 
When  they  are  done  they  have  a  nice,  brown,  crisp  crust  that  is 
very  appetizing. 


SUPERFINE  STRING  BEANS 

Snap  the  beans  as  usual,  wash  and  let  them  stand  in  the  cold 
water  while  you  put  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter  into  the  kettle 
(depends  upon  the  quantity  of  beans  you  are  to  cook).  Take  the 
beans  up  out  of  the  cold  water  in  your  hands  and  don't  be  particu¬ 
lar  about  draining  off  all  the  water.  Put  them  in  kettle  on  top  of 
the  butter.  Don’t  add  a  drop  of  water.  Put  them  on  the  stove 
and  let  them  cook  about  fifteen  minutes.  Don’t  be  afraid  they’ll 
burn;  they  won’t.  Then  add  just  enough  water  to  cover.  When 
they  are  done  the  water  should  be  almost  if  not  quite  boiled  away, 
and  your  beans  are  all  ready  for  the  table,  and  the  taste  will  be  a 
revelation.  When  you  add  the  water,  add  also  one  teaspoon  salt. 

FRIED  EGGPLANT 

Slice,  and  soak  in  salted  water  for  an  hour  or  more  to  extract 
bitter  taste.  Drain,  wipe  dry  and  fry  in  butter  or  nice  pork  fat 
until  tender.  If  preferred,  the  slices  may  be  dipped  into  beaten 
egg,  then  into  crumbs,  before  frying.  Serve  very  hot.  Delicious. 

Amy  Tingley 

SUMMER  SQUASH 

It  is  very  nice  cut  in  slices  and  cooked  same  as  egg  plant,  and 
is  a  change  from  the  usual  way  of  boiling  it. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


51 


STEWED  CUCUMBERS 

Peel  large  cucumbers,  cut  into  quarters  lengthwise  and  boil 
gently  in  salted  water  twenty  minutes.  When  done,  lay  on  toast 
and  cover  with  a  sauce  made  of  two  tablespoons  butter,  one 
tablespoon  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  little  pepper,  one-half 
pint  boiling  water.  Add  juice  of  one-half  lemon  if  liked.  Serve 
at  once;  nice  way  to  use  cucumbers  too  old  for  slicing. 

SCALLOPED  CORN 

Butter  baking  dish.  Put  in  one-half  can  corn  and  sprinkle 
thickly  with  rolled  cracker  crumbs.  Dot  generously  with  butter, 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  remainder  of  the  can  of 
corn  and  proceed  the  same  as  before,  having  another  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs  and  butter  on  top.  Bake  until  a  nice  brown. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Darby 

BAKED  POTATOES  WITH  CHEESE 

Bake  six  large  potatoes  and  split  them  lengthwise.  Scoop 
out  the  inside,  mash  very  fine,  add  one-half  cup  hot  milk,  two 
teaspoons  salt,  and  one-quarter  pound  grated  cheese.  Refill  the 
shells,  dust  with  paprika  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven 
until  a  delicate  brown. 


CARROTS 

A  nice  way  to  serve  is  to  cook  in  the  usual  way,  then  chop 
fine,  and  dress  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Alpha  Norris 

MASHED  TURNIPS  WITH  ONION 
Cut  up  turnips  and  cook  in  salted  water  with  an  onion.  When 
tender,  drain  off  water  and  mash,  add  butter  and  a  little  pepper. 
Nice  for  a  change. 


CABBAGE 

After  cabbage  has  been  soaked  in  cold  salted  water  one-half 
hour,  shave  it  rather  fine,  boil  very  rapidly  in  plenty  of  water 
(have  much  more  than  you  think  is  needed)  for  one-half  hour. 
Drain,  chop,  season  with  salt  and  plenty  of  butter.  It  is  creamy 
and  delicious  and  more  digestible  than  when  long  cooked.  The 
boiling  must  be  maintained  to  the  last  minute. 


52 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


STUFFED  TOMATOES 

These  are  very  nice  prepared  the  same  as  baked  peppers,  or 
they  may  be  stuffed  with  shrimp  or  crab  meat  mixed  with  one-half 
cup  white  sauce  seasoned  with  a  speck  of  mustard,  salt,  pepper 
and  paprika.  Cover  the  tops  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  thirty  minutes. 


SOMETHING  NEW 

Pare  and  boil  sweet  potatoes;  mash,  season  to  taste  with 
cream,  butter  and  salt.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  smoothing  the  top  of 
potatoes.  Cover  the  potatoes  with  marshmallows,  leaving  just 
enough  room  for  them  to  spread.  Just  before  serving,  place  in  a 
moderate  oven  long  enough  to  melt  the  marshmallows  and  brown 
delicately.  Serve  at  once.  Mrs.  Edith  Garfield  Berry 

POTATOES  O  BRIEN 

Dice  cold  boiled  potatoes,  add  a  sweet  green  pepper  chopped 
fine,  season  well,  place  in  a  baking  dish,  dot  with  butter  and 
moisten  with  milk.  Cook  until  the  milk  is  absorbed.  A  thin  white 
sauce  may  be  used  if  preferred,  in  which  case  bake  long  enough  to 
cook  thoroughly.  Mrs.  John  G.  Berry,  Philadelphia 

PARSNIP  STEW 

Try  out  several  slices  of  pork.  Slice  enough  parsnips  to  fill 
a  quart  measure,  one  pint  sliced  potatoes.  Put  on  to  boil  with  the 
pork  and  cover  with  water.  Cook  until  done,  then  add  one  pint 
milk.  Season  to  taste.  Mrs.  Edith  M.  Foster 


ENTREES 


SOUFFLE  OF  TOMATO  AND  MACARONI 

1  can  tomato  soup  1  cup  cooked  macaroni 

Make  a  white  sauce  of 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  2  tablespoons  flour 

3/2  cup  of  milk 

When  thickened  add  the  tomato  puree. 

Let  cook  two  minutes  and  add  two-thirds  cup  grated  cheese, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  pepper,  and  the  macaroni. 
Place  over  hot  water  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  — 
the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  cut  in.  Cook  over  the  hot  water 
fifty  minutes  or  until  firm. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Bennett,  Medford  Hillside,  Mass. 

CHICKEN  PUFF 

One  cup  chopped  chicken,  two  eggs,  separate  whites  and 
yolks.  Make  a  white  sauce  by  melting  two  tablespoons  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  one  tablespoon  flour.  When  thoroughly  blended, 
add  one  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  saltspoon  pepper, 
and  cook  till  thickened.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  light,  and  mix  with 
chicken,  then  add  white  sauce,  mix  thoroughly.  Cut  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Onion  juice  may  be 
added.  Mrs.  Emma  Anderson,  East  Lynn 

MOULDED  HALIBUT 

Soak  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  one  cup  of  milk,  and  add  one 
cup  of  chopped  halibut,  add  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  onion 
juice,  one-quarter  teaspoon  pepper;  last,  two  or  three  stiff  whites 
of  eggs.  Bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 

Serve  with  an  egg  sauce.  Mrs.  Fred  L.  Roper 

PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS 

1  cup  of  flour  Yl  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

y2  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs  1  cup  cut-up  pineapple 

Beat  eggs  and  add  milk. 

Mix,  and  add  sugar,  salt,  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour, 
and  pineapple.  Add  more  flour  if  needed  to  make  batter  stiff 
enough  to  drop  by  spoonsful  in  hot  fat;  fry  and  drain  on  paper. 
Serve  with  sauce  made  of  the  pineapple  syrup  and  a  little  sugar. 

Mrs.  Eva  Udell,  Dracut 


54 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


RED  DEVIL 

1  cup  milk  1  snappy  cheese 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  can  Campbell’s  tomato  soup 

1  tablespoon  flour  Dash  salt  and  paprika 

3^  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler.  When  hot  add  flour  and  butter, 
then  add  snappy  cheese  and  dissolve  thoroughly,  then  add  soup 
and  seasoning.  Serve  on  toast  or  crackers. 

Mrs.  Ariston  Barrows,  Lowell 

SCOTCH  WOODCOCK 

2  cups  tomato  sauce  or  Campbell’s  soup  not  diluted. 

2  cups  cheese,  cut  up  and  melt  in  tomato. 

When  melted  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  red  pepper  and  one 
beaten  egg  into  which  has  been  put  one  teaspoon  mustard. 

Serve  on  toasted  bread  or  saltines. 

Mrs.  H.  P.  Dinsmore 

MEAT  SOUFFLE 

One  cup  cold  chopped  meat,  one  cup  white  sauce,  two  eggs 
beaten  separately  (yolks  and  whites).  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Bake  twenty  minutes  in  hot  oven  in  buttered  dish  and  serve  im¬ 
mediately.  Mrs.  Ray  P.  Dinsmore,  Akron,  Ohio 

HAMBURG  WITH  OLIVES 

Place  one  pound  Hamburg  steak  in  baking  pan  to  form  a  layer 
about  an  inch  thick.  Put  through  grinder  a  small  onion  and  small 
bottle  stuffed  olives.  Spread  evenly  on  top  of  steak  and  pour  over 
same  one  cup  tomato  catchup.  Bake  in  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes 
after  adding  one-quarter  cup  water.  This  is  a  very  appetizing 
dish.  Miss  Annie  L.  Pasho,  Lowell 

MACARONI  WITH  MEAT 

Two  packages  macaroni  cooked  quite  soft,  add  one  quart 
plain  tomato,  butter  size  of  egg,  add  two  large  onions,  chopped 
fine  and  fried  in  butter  until  quite  tender;  add  one  and  one-half 
pounds  Hamburg  steak,  fried.  Let  all  cook  together  a  very  short 
time;  add  salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  Nelson  J.  Brown 

SUPPER  DISH 

6  large  onions  34  lb.  cheese 

1  can  tomatoes 

Pare  and  boil  onions  until  tender,  in  salted  water.  Drain  off 
and  put  into  baking  dish  as  follows:  one  layer  onions,  one  layer 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


55 


cheese,  one  layer  tomato.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  then 
another  layer  onions,  etc.,  until  dish  is  filled.  Cover  top  layer 
with  small  patties  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve 
in  the  dish  it  is  baked  in.  Mrs.  E.  A.  Sanderson 

STUFFED  PEPPERS 

Take  six  medium-sized  sweet  green  peppers,  scoop  out  centre 
and  parboil  thirty  minutes.  Open  one  can  of  Campbell’s  vegetable 
soup  and  add  about  one  cup  of  cracker  crumbs.  Fill  peppers  with 
mixture,  cover  with  crumbs  and  dot  generously  with  butter.  Bake 
in  rather  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Austin  French 

CHICKEN  WIGGLE 

1  cup  minced  chicken  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  cream  Yolks  two  hard  boiled  eggs 

put  through  sieve 

One  tablespoon  flour  rubbed  with  the  above  wet  with  a  little 
milk.  Put  in  a  pan  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  let  simmer  to 
light  brown  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  milk,  cream 
and  egg  and  cook  thoroughly,  adding  lastly  one-half  can  French 
peas  and  do  not  stir.  Shrimp  or  salmon  may  be  used  in  place  of 
chicken.  Serve  on  toast,  enough  for  six  people.  Very  good. 

Mrs.  Dinsmore 

CORN  A  LA  TOURAINE 

Make  a  thick  cream  sauce.  Add  one  can  of  corn,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Two  or  three  chopped  Spanish  peppers  or  pi¬ 
mentos.  Cut  in  one-fourth  to  one-half  a  pound  of  cheese.  Let 
cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  put  in  buttered  baking  dish 
covered  with  grated  cheese,  pieces  of  butter  on  top  and  bake  until 
brown.  Mrs.  Harriet  P.  Osgood,  Lowell 

CORN  FRITTERS 

1  pt.  chopped  green  corn  or  Salt 

Yl  can  of  corn  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  egg  C/2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Thicken  with  flour  and  drop  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time  into 
deep  fat,  fry  brown.  This  same  batter  can  be  used  for  clam  cakes 
by  omitting  corn  and  substituting  one  pint  chopped  clams. 

Mrs.  Lucy  L.  Watson 


56 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


# 


CORN  OYSTERS 

1  pint  grated  corn  1  small  teacup  flour 

2  eggs  well  beaten  Yl  CUP  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Fry  in  deep  fat.  Mrs.  E.  W.  Osterman 

HAM  RAREBIT 

Toast  slices  of  bread,  spread  thickly  with  potted  ham,  then 
with  thin  slices  of  new  cheese  and  a  very  little  prepared  mustard. 
Let  stand  in  oven  until  the  cheese  is  melted. 

ESCALLOPED  MEAT 

Chop  meat  rather  coarse,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put 
in  a  baking  dish.  Have  alternate  layers  of  meat,  gravy  and  bread 
crumbs.  The  last  layer  must  be  of  crumbs.  Cook  in  hot  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Miss  Hannah  J.  Chandler 

CHICKEN  WIGGLE 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  heated,  add  two  tablespoons  flour. 
When  mixed  well,  add  one  pint  milk  warmed  a  third  at  a  time. 
Be  sure  to  have  sauce  smooth  before  adding  the  last  third.  When 
this  boils,  add  one  can  chicken  picked  to  pieces  and  add  one  can 
peas  strained.  Salt  to  taste  and  cook  a  short  time.  Serve  on 
toasted  bread  or  crackers.  Mrs.  Rena  M.  Trull 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 
Use  sweet  green  peppers  cut  lengthwise  and  remove  seeds. 
Put  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes  to  parboil.  Fill  each  one  with 
a  stuffing  made  of  cracker  crumbs  and  minced  meat  well  seasoned 
with  salt,  butter  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Place  in  a  baking 
dish  with  stock  about  one  inch  deep.  Bake  moderately  about  one- 
half  hour.  Mrs.  Herbert  L.  Trull 

ENGLISH  MONKEY 

Cut  one-half  pound  cheese  in  small  pieces,  put  in  double 
boiler  with  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  let  it  melt.  Fill  a  pint  bowl 
with  bread  crumbs  and  cover  with  milk.  Beat  one  egg  and  add 
pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  one-quarter  teaspoon  mustard  and  shake 
of  cayenne  pepper,  put  into  cheese  and  cook  about  ten  minutes. 
Serve  hot  on  toast.  Mrs.  H.  L.  Trull 

GOOD  SUPPER  DISH 

Two  heaping  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  seasoned,  one  can  of 
vegetable  soup.  Cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  crumbs  or  more 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


57 


mashed  potatoes.  Dot  with  small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  George  E.  Bennett 

WALDORF  ASTORIA  RICE 

1  cup  cooked  rice  1  cup  grated  cheese 

2  eggs  1  can  pimentos 

\}/2  cups  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Bake  like  custard.  Miss  Annie  L.  Ellis 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  tablespoons  butter  3^2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  Dash  of  paprika 

A  CUP  scalded  milk  cup  grated  cheese 

fggm-  .  3  eggs 

Melt  butter  and  mix  with  flour.  Add  hot  milk  gradually, 
then  salt,  pepper  and  cheese.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  beaten 
yolks.  Cool  the  mixture,  fold  in  beaten  whites,  pour  in  buttered 
baking  dish  and  cook  about  twenty  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Serve 
at  once.  Mrs.  A.  F.  Small 

RICE  CROQUETTES 
2  cups  boiled  rice  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  butter  A  teaspoon  salt 

To  the  hot  boiled  rice  add  butter  and  well  beaten  egg.  Spread 
over  a  plate  and  when  cold  shape  into  balls.  Roll  in  soft  crumbs, 
dip  in  egg  slightly  beaten.  Roll  in  crumbs  again  and  fry  in  hot 
fat.  Mrs.  D.  McKillop 

GERMAN  POTATO  CAKE 

Select  seven  or  eight  good-sized  potatoes.  Scrub  clean  and 
pare  them,  not  being  too  particular  about  removing  all  the  skins. 
Put  them  through  a  fine  grater,  and  thin  out  with  milk,  adding 
enough  salt  to  taste.  Then  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter 
such  as  for  griddle  cakes.  Mix  well  and  drop  from  spoon  into  any 
desired  shape  on  a  hot  pan  well  greased  with  pieces  of  fat  pork. 
Cook  on  both  sides  slowly  until  well  browned.  Serve  hot  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  butter.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Lyle 

TOMATO  CAKES 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1 A  cups  stewed  tomatoes 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  fat 

A  teaspoon  salt  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  batter. 

Fry  as  griddle-cakes.  Mrs.  F.  G.  Gulliland 


58 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


SNAPPY  CHEESE  RAREBIT 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Mix  one  tablespoon  of  flour 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon  of  mustard  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper  and  add  to  butter.  Add  one  cup  of  warm 
milk,  when  hot  add  one  package  of  snappy  cheese  and  melt,  stir¬ 
ring  all  the  time;  add  one  egg  beaten  last. 

Mrs.  Arthur  H.  Lucia,  Medford 

SUPPER  FOR  A  COLD  NIGHT 

Chop  meat,  raw  or  cooked,  one  or  two  kinds,  if  they  blend 
well,  as  veal  and  ham,  or  beef  and  pork,  enough  to  make  about 
two  cups;  season.  Make  a  good  biscuit  crust  of  two  cups  of  flour, 
roll  not  too  thick;  put  meat  in,  prick  on  the  top,  and  wet  edges; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven,  save  a  little  of  the  gravy  and  pour  over  top. 
Return  to  oven  for  ten  minutes.  See  if  this  recipe  isn’t  good  on  a 
cold  winter’s  night,  or  anytime.  Mrs.  Buck 

RICE  AND  CHEESE 

Boil  one  cup  rice  five  minutes  in  plenty  of  water.  Drain  and 
rinse  in  cold  water,  melt  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  in  a  frying- 
pan  and  add  the  rice  and  one-half  a  chopped  onion.  Cook  until 
butter  is  all  absorbed,  then  add  one  cup  strained  tomato,  two  and 
one  half  cups  stock  or  water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cook  until 
rice  is  tender  and  the  liquid  absorbed,  then  stir  in  good  half  cup 
grated  cheese.  Serve  very  hot.  Mrs.  Mantir  E.  Garland 

CHEESE  CUSTARD 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  in  layer  of  bread  cut  fine,  sprinkle 
grated  cheese  over  bread  and  dust  with  salt,  pepper  and  mustard. 
Add  other  layers  of  bread  and  cheese,  seasoning  as  before.  Beat 
one  egg  slightly,  add  one  cup  milk,  and  pour  over  bread  and 
cheese. 

Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Harriette  G.  Lee 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS 

Take  eight  or  ten  onions  of  good  size.  Slice  them  and  boil 
until  tender,  lay  in  a  baking  dish;  put  in  bread  crumbs,  butter  in 
small  bits,  pepper  and  salt  between  each  layer  until  dish  is  nearly 
full.  Put  bread  crumbs  last.  Add  milk  or  cream  until  dish  is  full. 
Bake  about  one-half  hour.  Mrs.  John  F.  French 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


59 


CREAMED  OYSTERS  ON  POTATO  MOUND 
Boil  potatoes,  mash  well  with  small  lump  of  butter,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add  one  or  two  tablespoons  of 
cream  and  beat  light.  Grease  a  platter  with  butter  and  pile  po¬ 
tato  in  a  rough  border  around  the  platter.  Just  before  potatoes 
are  arranged,  blend  a  tablespoon  butter,  scant  tablespoon  of 
flour  in  sauce  pan,  add  a  cup  of  cream  and  milk  mixed,  season  with 
pepper.  Stir  well  to  prevent  lumping  when  boiling.  Add  one 
pint  of  oysters  and  remove  from  stove  as  soon  as  gills  curl.  Pour 
creamed  oysters  in  centre  of  potatoes  and  serve  hot. 

This  recipe  is  very  good  also,  substituting  a  can  of  salmon  for 
oysters.  Mrs.  John  Dupee 


SALADS 


“To  make  it  one  must  have  a  spark  of  genius.” 

EGG  AND  GREEN  PEPPER  SALAD 

Boil  eggs  very  hard  and  when  cold,  chop  them  very  fine. 
Chop  very  fine  an  equal  quantity  of  green  sweet  peppers.  Mix 
together  thoroughly  and  serve  with  French  Dressing  on  lettuce 
leaves.  Toss  rather  than  stir  the  egg  mixture. 

H.  B.  Fifield,  Janesville,  Wisconsin 

ORANGE  AND  CHERRY  SALAD 

Remove  white  membrane  from  two  oranges  and  cut  each 
section  in  halves,  crosswise.  Mix  one  cup  pineapple  cut  in  cubes 
with  one-half  cup  candied  cherries  halved.  Mix  by  tossing  to¬ 
gether  with  two  forks.  Add  orange  and  cover  with  Lemon  Cream 
Sauce. 

Lemon  Cream  Sauce 

To  one-half  cup  whipped  cream  add  four  tablespoons  sugar 
and  three  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  M.  A.  Nichols,  Salem 

CRANBERRY  SALAD 

One  quart  cranberries,  two  cups  boiling  water.  Cook  until 
soft  and  strain.  Add  one  and  one-quarter  cups  sugar;  cook  five 
minutes.  Add  one  and  one-half  heaping  tablespoons  gelatine 
mixed  in  three  tablespoons  cold  water.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Cool 
and  add  three-quarters  cups  each  of  chopped  apple,  celery  and 
nuts.  Turn  into  moulds  and  set. 

Mrs.  G.  Thorndike  Trull 

TOMATO  JELLY 

Soak  one  envelope  (tablespoon)  Plymouth  Rock  gelatine  in 
one  cup  cold  juice  from  jar  of  canned  tomatoes;  add  one  cup  boiling 
hot  juice,  one  teaspoon  onion  juice,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  one 
teaspoon  powdered  sugar.  Put  remainder  of  tomato  pulp  through 
strainer,  and  add  to  mixture  one  cup  celery  cut  fine  and  one-half 
green  pepper  cut  fine.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Angus,  Andover 

GRAPE-NUTS  SALAD 

1  cup  grape-nuts  Yi  cup  pineapple  cut  in  cubes 

1  sliced  orange  2  bananas  cut  in  cubes 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


61 


Cut  up  fruit,  add  lemon  juice.  Mix  with  grape-nuts,  using 
fork.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  cream  dressing.  Makes  four  to  six 
portions.  Mrs.  P.  D.  Nash 

MOULDED  FRUIT  SALAD 
1  can  shredded  pineapple  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  orange  juice  1  cup  water 

1  box  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water  3  lemons 

Put  fruit  juices  with  sugar  on  to  boil  hard.  Pour  over  gela¬ 
tine,  adding  fruit  and  place  in  mould.  Pineapple  juice  will  not 
congeal  unless  added  to  gelatine  hot. 

Mrs.  Florence  Came,  Bristol,  Tenn. 

GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD 

cups  sugar  3  lemons 

3  grapefruit 

Dissolve  one  ounce  package  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Add  one 
pint  cold  water  to  this  when  thoroughly  dissolved.  Add  sugar, 
lemons,  grapefruit  juice  and  pulp;  beat  well.  Pour  into  large  or 
individual  moulds  (cups)  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  or 
cream  dressing  or  whipped  cream. 

A.  B.  Howe,  Marshalltown,  Iowa 

PERFECTION  SALAD 

2  tablespoons  sparkling  gelatine  1  cup  shredded  cabbage 

J/2  cup  cold  water  Juice  of  one  lemon 

2  cups  boiling  water  Small  grated  onion 

J/2  cup  mild  vinegar  3^  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  chopped  celery 

can  pimentos  cut  fine 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  boiling  water, 
lemon  juice,  vinegar,  salt.  Strain  when  begins  to  set,  adding  other 
ingredients.  Turn  into  moulds,  chill  until  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Reilly,  Ormond,  Fla. 

BUTTERFLY  SALAD 

Remove  skin  and  white  membrane  from  grapefruit  and 
oranges;  cut  in  uniform  slices.  Place  on  shredded  lettuce  two  half 
slices  pineapple,  curve  to  curve.  On  these  place  two  pieces  grape¬ 
fruit,  and  on  top  of  grape  fruit  place  two  slices  orange.  Place 
strip  of  green  pepper  down  the  center  for  body;  cream  cheese  ball 
for  head,  two  very  small  strips  pepper  coming  out  of  head.  Serve 
with  French  Fruit  Dressing.  Miss  Austin 


62 


The  Home-Makers  Cookbook 


FRUIT  SALAD 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
34  cup  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  fresh  fruit  of  any  sort 
Maraschino  cherries 

Pour  into  individual  moulds  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  Mayon¬ 
naise  thinned  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Howard  Foster 


1  envelope  gelatine 
34  cup  cold  water 

2  cups  boiling  water 
34  cup  mild  vinegar 


FRUIT  SALAD 

1  head  lettuce  34  lb-  white  grapes  cut  in 

2  oranges  chopped  fine  halves,  seeded 

3  slices  pineapple  cut  2  bananas  sliced 

1  small  package  figs  washed,  stems  removed,  cut  fine 
Pour  pineapple  juice  over  fruit.  Sprinkle  sugar  over  all;  then 
scatter  chopped  walnuts  over.  Place  on  lettuce  leaves,  add  few 
candied  cherries  and  whipped  cream  on  top. 

Mrs.  Belle  McCausland 


CHEESE  AND  PEPPER  SALAD 
Remove  seeds  from  two  sweet  green  peppers.  Wash  inside 
and  out  and  invert  on  dry  cloth  to  dry.  Fill  centers  with  pimento 
cheese  mixed  with  a  little  Mayonnaise.  Slice  in  rings  one-half 
inch  in  thickness,  using  a  very  sharp  knife.  Arrange  on  crisp 
inner  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Dinsmore 

CHEESE  SALAD  BISCUIT 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  grated  cheese 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  shortening 

1  teaspoon  salt  Milk  to  moisten. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  cheese.  Work  in  short¬ 
ening  with  a  fork;  add  milk  to  moisten  to  a  dough.  Turn  on 
floured  board,  pat  and  roll  to  one-half  inch  thickness.  Cut  like 
biscuit,  small  size.  Bake  in  hot  oven  twelve  minutes. 

Mrs.  Dinsmore 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

Add  slowly  yolks  2  eggs  well  beaten  34  teaspoon  paprika 
334  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  Few  grains  cayenne 

3  tablespoons  sugar  Add  slowly  %  cup  milk 

34  cup  vinegar 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


63 


Cook  over  boiling  water  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from 
boiler,  beat  hard  for  two  minutes.  Cool,  and  when  cool  add  one 
cup  prepared  fruit,  oranges,  pineapple,  etc.,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Add  one-half  cup  cream  to  mixture.  Place  in  mould,  stand  two 
hours;  serve  on  lettuce  with  Cream  Dressing.  Miss  Austin 

TOMATO  JELLY 

1  can  tomatoes  A  few  celery  tops 

1  slice  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  bay  leaves  y2  teaspoon  paprika 

Put  all  together,  bringing  to  a  boil.  Add  three-quarters  box 
of  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  one  hour  in  one-half  cup  cold 
water.  Add  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  strain.  Pour  into  cups  or 
moulds.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  cream  dressing  or  Mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Lee 


FRUIT  SALAD 

3  apples  2  heads  lettuce 

3  oranges  1  pt.  salad  dressing  made 

3  bananas  with  oil 

K  pt-  cream  whipped,  added  to  dressing 
Arrange  fruit  on  lettuce,  pour  over  dressing  and  put  pre¬ 
served  cherry  on  top.  M.  A.  Kennedy 


SALMON  SALAD 

One  can  salmon  freed  from  skin  and  bones,  then  flaked  and 
placed  on  lettuce  leaves  in  usual  way. 

Yi  cup  vinegar  (scant)  2  eggs  well  beaten 

Dessert  spoon  olive  oil  1  teaspoon  mustard 

Pinch  of  salt,  cayenne  pepper  2  teaspoons  sugar 

Pour  this  over  salmon  Little  salt,  bit  of  cayenne 

Juice  of  1  lemon,  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 
Beat  well  and  add  %  cup  milk,  beat  again,  adding  }/%  cup 
vinegar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly  to  prevent  separating.  Cool  to  serve. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Clancy 


SOLE  SALAD 

Have  a  thick,  medium-sized  flounder  filleted  and  when 
ready,  put  it  on  to  boil  in  cold  water,  to  which  the  juice  of  one- 
half  a  lemon  and  of  one  small  onion  is  added.  Boil  the  fish  ten  or 
twelve  minutes,  lift  with  a  skimmer  from  water  and  cool.  When 
cold,  flake  the  fish,  add  a  peeled,  seeded  and  finely  minced  red 


64 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


pepper  (pimento  may  answer);  one  cup  finely  minced  celery,  one 
tablespoon  washed  capers,  saltspoon  paprika.  Add  enough  Mayon¬ 
naise  to  moisten  the  salad  and  serve  on  lettuce  hearts,  garnished 
with  stuffed  olives. 


GINGER  ALE  SALAD 

Pour  one-half  cup  boiling  water  over  one  package  lemon  jello 
and  set  over  hot  water  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly.  Cook  and  add  one  and  one-half  cups  giner-ale.  Set  in 
cold  place  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  stir  in  one-quarter  cup 
finely  cut  nut  meats,  one-quarter  cup  finely  cut  celery,  one  cup 
finely  cut  assorted  fruits,  —  oranges,  cherries,  pineapple,  grapes; 
one  tablespoon  finely  cut  crystallized  ginger. 

Mrs.  Mabel  E.  Haines 

SALAD  COMBINATIONS 

Equal  quantities  of  chopped  or  sliced  cabbage,  celery  and 
apple  with  little  red  peel  left  on,  mixed  with  ground  roasted  pea¬ 
nuts  and  salad  dressing. 

Cabbage  chopped  with  pineapple  and  its  juice,  pimentos. 
Pineapple,  grapefruit,  apricot  served  with  Fruit  Salad  Dress- 

ing. 

Cabbage,  raisins  and  pineapple. 

Apples,  dates,  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans. 

Prunes  washed,  well  soaked  and  stoned.  Stuff  with  nuts. 

PUFFED  CRACKERS  TO  USE  WITH  SALADS 
Use  Boston  crackers  halved.  Let  crackers  lie  in  cold  water 
for  five  minutes.  Handle  carefully  to  avoid  breaking.  Remove 
from  water.  Place  on  a  greased  baking  pan,  putting  bits  of  butter 
on  each  cracker  and  place  in  very  hot  oven  until  crisp  and  fluffy. 

M.  A.  Nichols,  Salem 

SALMON  SALAD 

1  can  salmon  6  eggs 

2  cups  shredded  cabbage  Celery 

1  cup  chopped  gherkins  Salt,  pepper,  vinegar 

Remove  bones  and  skin  from  one  can  salmon.  Add  two  cups 
shredded  cabbage,  one  cup  chopped  gherkins  and  six  sliced  hard 
cooked  eggs.  Season  with  celery,  salt,  pepper  and  mild  vinegar,  or 
salad  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Mrs.  A.  K.  Barrows,  Lowell 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


65 


SALAD  DRESSING 


FRUIT  SALAD 
3^2  cup  pineapple  juice 
cup  orange  juice 
34  cup  lemon  juice 
Whipped  cream  to  thin 

Mix  juices  with  two-thirds  cup  sugar  and  put  in  double 
boiler  to  heat.  Mix  remainder  of  sugar  with  flour,  salt  and  eggs. 
Pour  into  juices  and  boil  until  thick.  Keeps  indefinitely.  When 
using,  add  whipped  cream  to  thin  as  necessary. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Jordan 


DRESSING 

1  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  flour 
2  eggs 

Pinch  salt 

cup  sugar  and  put 


SALAD  DRESSING 
Scald  one  cup  milk  and  then  pour  it  over : 

1  teaspoon  mustard  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  rounded  dessert  spoon  corn¬ 

starch 

Two  eggs  separated  and  into  yolks  beat  dry  mixture  before 
hot  milk  is  added,  then  return  all  to  double  boiler,  and  when  red 
hot  add  piece  of  butter,  one-half  cup  hot  vinegar,  beating  well 
with  egg  beater.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  in  whites  of  eggs. 

Miss  Jennie  F.  Blodgett,  Billerica 


FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 
4  well  beaten  eggs  1  heaping  teaspoon  salt 

Melted  butter  size  of  an  egg  1  lieaping  teaspoon  mustard 

1  can  Standard  or  Rose  milk  Mix  above  ingredients  with  a 

little  from  1  cup  vinegar 

Beat  this  twenty  minutes  with  egg-beater  perfectly  in  periods 
of  five  minutes  each,  beating,  letting  stand  between  times.  No 
cooking.  Mixture  may  seem  thin,  but  set  away  in  fruit  jars  in 
refrigerator;  it  will  thicken.  Mrs.  Carrie  Young 


AUNT  MARY’S  SALAD  DRESSING 
1  cup  butter  creamed  very  lightly  1  teaspoon  salt 
In  separate  bowl  stir  smoothly  To  this  add  slowly,  beating 
Yolks  4  eggs  constantly,  1  cup  olive  oil 

1  tablespoon  prepared  mustard  3^2  CUP  lemon  juice  and  vine¬ 
gar  (or  all  lemon  juice) 

This  dressing  is  thick  enough  to  cut  with  a  knife.  It  can  be 
poured  into  a  quart  jar,  more  oil  worked  in  until  jar  is  filled,  and 
will  keep  indefinitely.  Mrs.  George  W.  Foster 


66 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 
34  teaspoon  mustard  1  whole  egg 

1  teaspoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

34  teaspoon  salt  Bit  of  cayenne 

Beat  egg  in  bowl,  add  the  first  three  ingredients  mixed,  stir¬ 
ring  or  beating  with  egg-beater.  Add  oil,  drop  by  drop  at  first 
until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  pour  in  small  stream,  beating  con¬ 
stantly  until  thick  enough.  Add  vinegar,  finally  cayenne.  It  is 
well  to  have  one  beat  while  another  adds  oil. 

Mrs.  Charles  W.  French 

FRENCH  FRUIT  DRESSING 
4  tablespoons  olive  oil  34  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  34  teaspoon  black  pepper, 

1  tablespoon  each  chopped,  candied  paprika 

fruit 

Mix  all  in  glass  jar  and  shake  well.  Miss  Austin 


THOUSAND 

1  cup  Mayonnaise  or  cream 
dressing 

2  tablespoons  chili  sauce 


ISLAND  DRESSING 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 
1  tablespoon  chopped  pepper 
(sweet  green  or  pimento) 


GOLDEN  SALAD  DRESSING 
For  Fruit  Salad 

34  cup  orange  juice  Beat  34  CUP  sugar  and 

34  cup  pineapple  2  eggs  together 

34  cup  lemon  juice 

Add  to  hot  fruit  juices  in  double  boiler,  and  stir  until  it  thick¬ 
ens.  Before  serving  add  jar  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  L.  S.  Burgess,  Brockton 

SALAD  DRESSING  WITHOUT  OIL 
2  eggs  well  beaten  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  vinegar  (scant) 

2  teaspoons  mustard  6  tablespoons  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together.  Stir  into  well  beaten  eggs. 
Add  vinegar,  then  milk.  Mix  thoroughly;  add  butter  size  of 
walnut,  just  before  taking  from  fire.  Mrs.  Karl  Green 


1  tablespoon  flour 
3  tablespoons  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 


SALAD  DRESSING 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
1  egg  well  beaten 
1  cup  milk 
34  cup  vinegar 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


67 


Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  and  milk,  stir  well.  Add  vine¬ 
gar  slowly.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  of  right  thickness;  take 
from  fire,  add  small  piece  of  butter  and  beat  well. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Crown 


EASY  MAYONNAISE 

Put  in  a  quart  bowl  the  yolks  of  1  level  teaspoon  sugar 
2  eggs  unbroken  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  level  teaspoons  salt  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

1  level  teaspoon  mustard  Dash  of  cayenne 

Yl  pint  olive  oil 

Do  not  stir.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  two  rounding  table¬ 
spoons  butter,  two  rounding  tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  boiling 
water.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  blend  well.  Pour  over 
flour  mixture  cup  boiling  water  and  stir  until  smooth.  Take  hot 
sauce  and  pour  at  once  into  ingredients  in  quart  bowl.  Beat 
until  smooth  with  a  Dover  egg-beater.  Alice  King 


SALAD  DRESSING 


Make  a  white  sauce  from 
1  tablespoon  butter 
1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Add  to  first  mixture. 


Beat  together 
1  egg 

y  teaspoon  mustard 
3^2  cup  vinegar 
J/2  teaspoon  salt 
Cook  until  creamy. 

Mrs.  Bailey 


BOILED 

3  eggs  well  beaten 
1  cup  vinegar 
6  heaping  teaspoons  sugar 
1  level  teaspoon  mustard 
Cook  in  double  boiler, 
Mrs. 


SALAD  DRESSING 

V2  teaspoon  black  pepper 
y  teaspoon  salt 
3  teaspoons  butter 
6  teaspoons  milk  or  cream 
stirring  often  until  it  thickens. 

Ada  L.  Randall,  Daytona,  Fla. 


FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 
y2  cup  canned  pineapple  syrup  1  cup  sugar 

y  cup  lemon  juice  2  eggs  beaten 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch  y  pint  cream  whipped 

Cook  syrup,  lemon  juice,  cornstarch,  sugar  and  eggs  in  double 
boiler  until  thick.  Cool.  Add  cream  to  mixture  just  before  serv¬ 
ing.  Grace  F.  Johnson 


BREAD 


Back  of  the  loaf  is  the  snowy  flour. 

And  back  of  the  flour  the  mill; 

And  back  of  the  mill  is  the  wheat,  and  the  shower, 

And  the  sun,  and  the  Father’s  will. 

—Maltbie  D.  Babcock 

Breads:  Use  bread  flour,  not  pastry  flour,  of  some  well- 
known  brand.  If  you  wish  to  test  flour,  take  up  a  handful  and 
close  the  fingers  tightly  over  it.  If  it  remains  in  a  lump  and  shows 
the  print  of  the  fingers,  it  is  pastry  flour.  Bread  flour  is  very 
dry,  loose  and  powdery.  It  will  not  keep  in  shape.  Do  not  raise 
dough  in  too  hot  a  temperature,  neither  allow  it  to  set  where  cold 
air  will  strike  it;  about  seventy -five  degrees  is  right.  Bake  loaves 
forty -five  to  sixty  minutes  with  coal,  reducing  the  heat  after  first 
half  hour:  with  gas  a  shorter  time.  If  it  gives  a  hollow  sound 
when  tapped  with  the  fingers,  and  will  not  “sing”  it  is  baked. 
Loaves  made  from  rye,  corn  meal  or  any  of  the  coarse  flours, 
should  be  baked  in  deep  tins  as  the  dough  is  not  so  elastic  as  that 
of  wheat  flour  and  may  push  over  the  edges  of  a  low  tin.  Coarse 
breads  should  be  baked  more  slowly  after  the  crust  has  formed, 
but  should  be  placed  at  first  in  a  hot  oven.  When  such  breads  are 
done,  wrap  at  once  in  a  thick  cloth  to  steam  the  crust,  or  place  so 
air  may  circulate  on  all  sides  of  it.  The  proportions  for  one 
medium  sized  loaf  of  white  bread  are: — 

1  cup  liquid  (scalded  milk  or  water) 

2  teaspoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt 
2  tablespoons  lard 

J4  yeast  cake  in  2  tablespoons  warm  water 
6  cups  flour  or  a  little  more 

Use  greased  pans  about  nine  by  four  inches.  When  the  loaf 
rises  to  twice  the  size,  it  is  ready  for  the  oven.  The  oven  should  be 
tested  with  a  piece  of  white  paper,  which  should  turn  golden 
brown  in  five  minutes.  If  baking  with  coal,  have  enough  fuel  in 
the  stove  when  the  bread  is  put  into  the  oven  to  avoid  replenishing 
the  fire  until  the  bread  is  removed. 

WHITE  BREAD 
(For  rising  over  night) 

1  cake  Fleischmann’s  yeast  2  tablespoons  lard  or  melted 

2  quarts  liquid  (milk  and  water)  butter 

6  quarts  sifted  flour  2  tablespoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


69 


Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  water  which  should  be  luke¬ 
warm,  add  the  two  tablespoons  melted  lard  or  butter  and  half  the 
flour.  Beat  until  smooth,  then  add  balance  of  flour  or  enough  to 
make  a  firm  dough,  and  lastly  the  salt.  Knead  until  smooth  and 
elastic.  Set  aside  to  rise  over  night  in  warm  room.  In  the  morn¬ 
ing  mould  into  loaves.  Fill  well  greased  pans  half  full,  cover  and 
let  rise  until  light  or  until  the  loaves  have  doubled  in  bulk. 

Bake  in  gas  oven  with  full  heat  on  for  ten  minutes,  then  lower 
gas  one-half  and  bake  thirty  minutes  more.  This  will  make  six 
large  loaves. 

The  recipe  can  be  divided  very  easily  by  taking  just  half  of 
the  ingredients  called  for  as  well  as  half  the  yeast  cake.  The  half 
yeast  cake  you  have  left  over  can  be  kept  in  good  condition  for 
several  days  by  re-wrapping  in  tinfoil  and  keeping  in  a  cool,*dry 
place.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Gale 


RYE  DROP  CAKES 

1  egg  Salt,  nutmeg 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour  with  1  teaspoon 

1J/2  cups  sour  milk  soda  and  1  teaspoon  baking 

powder  sifted  together 

Rye  flour  to  make  right  consistency  to  drop  from  spoon  into 
hot  fat  like  doughnuts.  Very  nice  for  breakfast  with  maple 
syrup  or  jelly.  Mrs.  E.  W.  Bailey,  North  Tewksbury 


SQUASH 

1  cup  boiled  squash,  sifted 
Y  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 
1  teaspoon  soda 

Bake  in  gem  pans.  Mrs. 

RAISIN 


MUFFINS 
1  cup  milk 

1  egg,  well  beaten 

2  cups  flour,  salt 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 
A.  H.  Richardson,  Lowell 

BREAD 


2  cups  flour  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

Y2  cup  sugar  powder 

Salt 


Sift  these  together.  Mix  together  one  well-beaten  egg,  one 
cup  milk,  stir  into  dry  ingredients,  then  add  one-half  cup  small 
seedless  raisins.  Put  in  loaf  pan,  let  rise  twenty  minutes.  Bake  one 
hour  in  moderate  oven.  G.  E.  B. 


BRAN  BISCUIT 

Mix  and  sift  together  one  cup  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking- 
powder,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Add  one  cup  bran.  Stir  in  three- 


70 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


quarters  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  shortening. 
(May  use  one-half  cup  sour  milk  with  one  teaspoon  soda.) 

Amy  Tingle y 


RYE  BREAD 

2  cups  boiling  water 
1  teaspoon  salt 
6  cups  rye  flour 
1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
Yi  cup  lukewarm  water 
Put  molasses  in  bread  pan,  add  boiling  water  with  lard,  milk, 
flour,  salt,  yeast.  Beat  all  together  well,  raise  over  night,  put 
in  bread  pans  in  morning  to  rise  and  bake. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Talbot,  Brookline 


2  cups  milk 
%  cup  molasses 
6  cups  white  flour 
1  tablespoon  lard 


FRIED  BREAD 

Roll  bread  dough  very  thin,  cut  into  squares  or  strips  and  fry 
in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts.  Eat  hot  with  maple  syrup.  Nice  for 
breakfast. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS 

1  cup  scalded  milk  Y  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  lard  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

y2  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  little  water  3  cups  bread  flour 

1  beaten  egg  Y  cup  currants 

Yi  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Mix  in  morning  if  needed  for  supper.  Shape  into  large  bis¬ 
cuit,  place  in  pan  one  inch  apart,  brush  over  with  a  little  milk. 
Bake  twenty  minutes,  cool,  make  a  cross  on  top  of  each  bun, 
using  white  frosting.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Stevens,  Newburyport 

SALLY  LUNN 

2  cups  flour  Y  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard  1  egg 

Yi  yeast  cake  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  flour  and  milk,  add  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
then  add  melted  butter  and  beaten  egg.  When  raised  beat  well. 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  slowly. 

Mrs.  Anna  E.  Hammett,  Newport,  R.  I. 


SHREDDED  WHEAT  BREAD 
2  shredded  wheat  biscuit  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  cups  corn-flakes  Y  cup  molasses 

Pour  over  1  qt.  boiling  water  Yi  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  lard 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


71 


Let  stand  until  lukewarm.  Add  one  dissolved  yeastcake, 
three  quarts  flour.  Mix  quite  stiff. 

Jennie  F.  Blodgett,  Billerica 


GRAPE-NUTS  BREAD 
1  cup  grape-nuts  2  cups  milk 

J4  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  sugar 

1  egg  3  cups  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Heat  one  cup  of  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  grape-nuts.  Let 
stand  a  few  minutes.  Beat  egg  and  add  with  the  other  ingre¬ 
dients.  Let  rise  in  pan  twenty  minutes.  Bake  forty-five  minutes 
or  more  in  moderate  oven.  Mabel  E.  Harris,  Belmont 


NUT  BREAD 

2  cups  flour  1  egg  white  beaten  stiff 

4  tablespoons  sugar  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats  powder,  34  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk 

Mix  in  order  given,  let  rise  one-half  hour  or  more  and  bake  in 
rather  slow  oven  three-quarters  to  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Fred  L.  Roper 


PLUM  BROWN  BREAD 

1  cup  rye  meal  A  little  salt 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  Indian  meal 

1  cup  raisins  1  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  with  sour  milk  or  water.  Steam  three  and  one-half 
hours.  M.  A.  Kennedy 


BERRY  MUFFINS 

34  cup  butter  1  cup  berries 

1  egg  1  cup  milk 

4  teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  in  } 4  teaspoon  salt 
2%  cups  flour  34  cup  sugar 

Cream  butter,  add  gradually  sugar  and  egg  well-beaten ;  mix 
and  sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  reserving  one-quarter  cup 
flour  to  be  mixed  with  the  berries  and  added  last.  The  remainder 
of  the  flour  add  alternately  with  milk. 

Mrs.  A.  F.  French,  Lowell 


72 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


PLAIN  MUFFINS 

6  cups  flour  3  tablespoons  lard 

2  teaspoons  salt  4  tablespoons  sugar 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  well  beaten  eggs 

2  cups  milk 

Makes  twenty -four  muffins. 

Isa  McCulley,  Cook  at  Y.  W.  C.  A.,  Haverhill 

WALNUT  BREAD 

2  cups  bread  flour  34  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  salt 

Ys,  cup  milk  1  egg 

Y  cup  chopped  walnuts 

When  mixed  let  stand  one-half  hour  before  baking. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Angus 
Mrs.  Smart,  Andover 

QUICK  RYE  BREAD 

2  cups  rye  or  Graham 
1  cup  white  flour 
1  teaspoon  soda  in  the  sour 
milk 

Gertrude  E.  Bailey 

SCONES 

2  cups  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  these  twice  and  rub  in  two  tablespoons  shortening.  Beat 
two  eggs  very  light  and  add  one-third  cup  milk.  Mix.  Roll  one- 
half  inch  thick  and  cut  three  inches  square;  fold  in  triangles. 
Brush  with  milk,  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Howard  Foster 

GOLDEN  CORN  CAKE 
Y  cup  corn  meal  34  cup  sugar 

134  level  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg  well  beaten 

Pinch  of  salt  1  cup  milk 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients,  add  milk,  the  well  beaten 
egg  and  shortening.  Bake  in  shallow  greased  pan  in  hot  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Harold  J.  Patten 


1  cup  sour  milk 
1  cup  sweet  milk 
Yl  cup  sugar 
Yi  teaspoon  salt 
Bake  one  hour. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


73 


CORN  MUFFINS 

1  e£g  2  tablespoons  granulated 

3/2  cup  corn  meal  sugar 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

A  little  salt 

Martha  B.  French 
PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

2  cups  scalded  milk  4  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

1  tablespoon  sugar  2  tablespoons  lukewarm  water 

6  cups  bread  flour 

Put  salt,  sugar  and  butter  in  scalded  milk;  when  lukewarm 
add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  four  cups  flour.  Beat  thoroughly, 
add  two  more  cups  flour,  turn  out  on  moulding  board  and  knead 
until  smooth  and  elastic.  Return  to  bowl,  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  Cut  down  and  let  rise  again.  Turn  out  on  board,  and  cut 
with  a  large  biscuit  cutter,  fold  over,  putting  a  small  piece  of  butter 
in  between,  let  rise  until  light,  bake  about  one-half  hour.  For 
large  family,  double  the  amount. 

Mrs.  Philip  M.  Battles 
NUT  BREAD 

2  cups  flour  3dS  cup  walnut  meats 

2  cups  Graham  flour  Yl  cup  raisins 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

the  molasses 

Mix  in  the  order  given,  and  pour  into  greased  bread  pan. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour.  Mrs.  Ellen  Speke 

CORN  BREAD 

3  tablespoons  sugar 
Pinch  of  salt 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
powder 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Mrs.  James  E.  Chambers 

PREPARED  FLOUR  FOR  GRAHAM  GEMS 
Sift  together  two  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  salt,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  saleratus.  Add  two  cups  Pillsbury’s  Graham  flour. 


Yv  cup  meal 
1  egg 

1  cup  milk 
lY  cups  flour 


74 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


Mix  thoroughly.  Prepare  as  much  as  desired.  Keep  in  covered 
pail. 

For  Six  Gems: 

1Y  cups  of  the  prepared  flour  1  tablespoon  brown  sugar 

2  tablespoons  molasses  1  tablespoon  shortening 

1  cup  milk,  slightly  sour  preferred 

Mrs.  Elma  J.  Rogers 

ENGLISH  ROCK  BUNS 

3  cups  sifted  flour  1  cup  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  2  tablespoons  shortening 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  Y2  piece  lemon  peel  cut  thin 

Yi  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla  extract  1  cup  milk 
1  cup  seedless  raisins 

Crumble  flour,  sugar  and  shortening  together  first.  Drop 
dough  from  spoon  on  pans,  bake  20  minutes  in  quick  oven.  This 
makes  about  two  dozen.  Mrs.  Robert  Barron 

OATMEAL  BREAD 

Pour  one  quart  boiling  water  over  two  cups  rolled  oats. 
When  nearly  cold  add  one  tablespoon  lard,  two-thirds  cup  mo¬ 
lasses,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  yeastcake 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  enough  white  flour  to  make 
quite  stiff.  Mix  with  a  spoon.  Raise  over  night.  Bake  in  usual 
way.  Mrs.  John  Dupee 

Mrs.  Irving  R.  Shaw,  Ballardvale 

RAISIN  AND  NUT  BREAD 

4  cups  flour  —  all  white  or  2  white  and  2  graham 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sugar  1  cup  seeded  raisins 

1  cup  broken  walnut  meats  1  beaten  egg 

2  cups  milk 

Raise  for  one-half  hour.  Bake  about  forty  minutes. 

Marguerite  Lee  Goodwin 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 
1  quart  flour  4  tablespoons  lard 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  Wet  with  sweet  milk 

Roll,  cut  with  small  cutter,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  about  twenty 
minutes  till  golden  brown. 

POPOVERS 

3  eggs 
Pinch  of  salt 


1J/2  cups  sifted  flour 
\}/2  cups  milk 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


75 


Beat  eggs  together  until  light  add  one  cup  milk,  then  all  the 
flour,  beat  till  very  smooth  with  Dover  egg  beater,  then  add  the 
other  half  cup  milk  and  beat  well  again.  Have  very  hot  gem  pans, 
fill  them  half  full  and  bake  in  hot  oven  forty  minutes.  Adding  the 
half  cup  of  milk  last  is  what  makes  them  light. 

Miss  Emeline  S.  Burleigh,  Newport,  R.  I. 


NUT  BREAD 

3J/2  cups  entire  wheat  flour  2  cups  sour  milk 

13^2  teaspoons  soda  x/l  cup  molasses 

x/i  cup  raisins  C/z  teaspoons  salt 

3/2  cup  chopped  nuts 

Sift  and  mix  dry  ingredients,  add  nuts  and  raisins,  beat  in 
molasses  and  milk,  bake  in  the  usual  way.  Inez  Beal,  Lowell 

BROWN  BREAD 

Put  in  sieve  1  cup  flour  1  cup  rye  flour 

2  cups  Indian  Meal  1  rounding  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt  and  sift. 

Add  1  cup  molasses,  23/2  cups  milk  (or  milk  and  water). 
Steam  3  hours. 

If  a  smaller  amount  is  made,  steam  the  same  length  of  time. 

Mrs.  Jesse  French 

TOAST 

Please  do  not  make  it  according  to  the  little  boy’s  definition: 
“Something  you  burn  on  the  stove  and  scrape  at  the  sink”,  but 
turn  it  often  until  delicately  browned  on  both  sides. 


MRS.  CAMERON’S  NUT  BREAD 


2  cups  white  flour 
13/2  cups  graham  flour 
Yi  cup  molasses 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Bake  in  loaf  1  hour. 


2  cups  sweet  milk 
3/2  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  walnuts,  chopped 
1  teaspoon  soda 
Dorothy  P.  Roper 


PEANUT  BUTTER  BREAD 
1  cup  milk  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  peanut  butter  3dS  cup  sugar 

1  egg  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Blend  milk  and  peanut  butter  together.  Add  well  beaten  egg. 
Add  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Pour  into  oiled  bread  pan. 
Set  in  warm  place  to  rise  20  minutes.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  slow 
oven.  Miss  Annie  Penniman,  Andover 


76 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


SANDWICH  FILLINGS 

1.  Orange  marmalade  sprinkled  with  cocoanut. 

2.  Mashed  sardines,  hard  boiled  eggs  and  salad  dressing. 

3.  Peanut  butter  creamed  with  a  little  water  and  mixed 
with  tomato  ketchup. 

4.  One-half  cup  each  of  cream,  dates,  walnuts. 

5.  Equal  parts  cheese  and  finely  cut  celery  moistened  with 
salad  dressing,  seasoned  with  salt  and  paprika  and  a  little  scraped 
onion. 

6.  Ground  cheese  and  sweet  cucumber  pickles  moistened 
with  mayonnaise. 

7.  Mashed  banana  with  two  tablespoons  cocoa  worked  in, 
and  mixed  with  salad  dressing. 

8.  One-half  cup  finely  minced  ham,  2  yolks  of  hard  boiled 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  butter  melted. 

9.  Softened  marshmallows  with  chopped  nut  meats. 

10.  Chopped  dates  mixed  with  orange  juice.  Add  a  pinch 
of  cinnamon. 

11.  Olives,  walnuts,  finely  chopped  ham. 

12.  Cream  cheese,  finely  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs,  salt, 
pepper,  mustard,  mayonnaise. 

13.  Ham  or  any  meat,  hard  boiled  eggs,  celery,  nut  meats, 
cheese,  salad  dressing. 

14.  Peas,  pickles,  peanuts,  salad  dressing. 

15.  Minced  sardines  and  cream  cheese  between  brown  or 
graham  bread. 

16.  Chopped  prunes,  walnut  meats,  olives,  between  graham 
bread. 

17.  Thin  slices  of  white  bread  spread  with  cream  cheese,  on 
top  of  this  a  thin  slice  of  brown  bread  spread  with  chopped  pickles 
and  mayonnaise,  then  put  on  another  slice  of  white  bread. 

18.  Very  fine  chopped  peanuts  mixed  with  salad  dressing. 

19.  One-half  cup  dates,  one-fourth  cup  raisins,  2  tablespoons 
citron,  2  tablespoons  preserved  ginger,  one-fourth  cup  nut  meats, 
orange  juice. 

20.  Ripe  olives,  pecan  meats,  pimento,  mayonnaise. 

21.  Flaked  crabmeat,  mayonnaise,  lettuce  and  slices  of  tomato. 

22.  Chopped  preserved  ginger  moistened  with  cream. 


\}/2  cups  graham  flour 
cup  wheat  flour 
J/2  cup  corn  meal 
1%  cups  sweet  milk 


BROWN  BREAD 

J/2  cup  molasses 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  soda 
1  cup  raisins 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


77 


Dissolve  soda  in  milk.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift.  Add 
molasses  and  milk.  Stir  until  well  mixed.  Turn  into  buttered 
moulds  and  steam  two  hours.  Mrs.  F.  D.  Corr 


RHODE  ISLAND  JOHNNY  CAKE 
1%  cups  white  corn  meal  1  level  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  2  level  teaspoons  sugar 

Stir  together  and  add  as  much  boiling  water  as  is  necessary 
to  thoroughly  scald  the  mixture.  Add  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon 
soda.  Saute  to  a  crisp  brown  (drop  spoonsful  in  frying  pan) 
using  plenty  of  fat.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Nichols,  Hathorne 

BAKING  POWDER 

2^4  lbs.  cream  of  tartar  1  lb.  baking  soda 

1  l/i  lbs.  flour 

Sift  six  or  eight  times  together  and  keep  in  tin  boxes.  This 
makes  4^  lbs.  baking  powder  and  costs  about  half  as  much  as 
that  bought  at  the  store.  Mrs.  E.  H.  French 


DATE  AND  NUT  BREAD 
Sift  together  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  Graham  flour  Add 

1  cup  white  flour  1  cup  milk 

Yl  cup  sugar  cup  nuts 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  3^  cup  dates 

Bake  in  greased  pan  thirty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Cogan,  Stoneham 


GRAHAM  BREAD 


1J/2  cups  Graham  flour 
H/l  cups  white  pastry  flour 
3^2  cup  molasses 

Bake  as  soon  as  mixed. 


1%  cups  sour  milk 
1  teaspoon  soda 
A  little  salt 

Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Lee 


MUFFINS 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  sweet  milk  l3dS  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 

powder 

Sift  all  dry  materials  together,  add  melted  butter  and  milk 
and  beat  well.  Mrs.  E.  H.  Bennett 


78 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


JOHNNY  CAKE 

1  cup  flour  Saltspoon  of  salt 

Yl  cup  corn  meal  Y  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  cup  milk 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  the  liquid.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in 
hot  oven.  Mary  Agnes  Corr 

NUT  BREAD 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
powder 
1  egg 

1  cup  nut  meats 
beat  egg  and  milk,  sift  the  dry 
Bake  one  hour. 
Janesville,  Wis. 


cups  flour 
Yt  CUP  sugar 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  milk 

Mix  all  the  dry  ingredients 
ingredients  in,  add  the  chopped  nut  meats. 

Miss  Fifield 


Mrs.  Howard  Foster 
NEVER  FAIL  JOHNNY  CAKE 


1  cup  bread  flour  after  sifting 
1  cup  corn  meal 
Yi  cup  sugar 

1  cup  sour  or  buttermilk 

2  tablespoons  dripping 


Yi  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
a  little  hot  water 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  egg 


Before  putting  cake  together,  put  an  iron  spider  on  the  stove 
to  heat,  add  one  teaspoon  grease  to  grease  the  spider.  Then  pro¬ 
ceed  with  the  cake  making.  Add  salt  and  baking  powder  to  sugar, 
flour  and  corn  meal,  sift  into  bowl;  add  milk  and  dripping,  then 
egg  and  soda  and  beat  until  smooth.  Put  into  spider  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  By  using  spider,  from  ten  to 
twelve  minutes  are  saved  in  the  baking. 

Mrs.  James  Fairgrieve 


CHEESE  DROP  BISCUIT 


1  level  cup  flour 
Y  CUP  water 
1  tablespoon  butter  or  fat 

Bake  about  twelve  minutes. 

1  cup  rye  flour 
1  cup  molasses 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


Y  teaspoon  salt 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
8  level  tablespoons  grated 
cheese 

Mrs.  Joseph  W.  Jordan 

2  cups  Indian  meal 
2  teaspoons  soda 
Y2  teaspoon  salt 


BROWN  BREAD 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


79 


Sift  all  dry  ingredients  together,  add  molasses  in  which  you 
have  melted  a  mixing  spoonful  of  shortening;  add  milk  or  water 
enough  for  a  soft  dough.  Place  in  a  five-pound  pail  set  inside  a 
ten-pound  pail  with  plenty  of  boiling  water,  and  bake  three  hours 
in  the  oven.  — In  loving  memory  of  Maria  T.  Delano 


DATE  BREAD 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  chopped  dates 

2  cups  Graham  flour 


2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  milk 


t  egg 

Put  sugar  into  mixing  bowl,  add  nuts,  dates,  Graham  flour, 
add  white  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt,  then  beaten 
egg  mixed  with  milk.  Mix  well  and  divide  into  two  greased  and 
floured  loaf  pans.  Bake  for  one  hour  with  moderate  heat. 


GRIDDLE  CAKES 

1  cup  cooked  cream  of  wheat  1  beaten  egg 

1  cup  white  flour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mrs.  Susan  Farmer 


SCOTCH  SCONES 

2  heaping  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  tablespoon  butter 
1  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

lJ/2  cups  milk  (or  less) 

Mix  same  as  biscuit  dough  and  roll  out  small  portion.  Cut 
in  quarters  and  “fry”  on  hot  griddle  that  has  been  floured  but 
not  greased.  Watch  carefully  and  turn  when  underside  has 
browned  a  bit.  If  they  get  browned  too  much,  dust  with  flour 
after  they  are  all  done.  (Do  not  use  too  much  milk.) 

Rena  M.  Trull 


HEAVENLY  BISCUIT 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

1%  cups  flour  yi  cup  melted  butter 

Mix  in  order  given.  Bake  in  iron  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  D.  L.  Page,  Lowell 


80 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


SWEDISH  COFFEE  BREAD 

1  egg  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  a 

1  cup  sugar  little  cold  water 

1  pt.  sweet  milk  1  sifter  of  bread  flour 

34  pt.  water 

12  cardamon  seeds  ground  and  added  to  egg  and  sugar 
Add  milk,  water,  yeast  and  flour,  stirring  well.  Set  in  morning 
to  bake  late  in  afternoon.  Miss  Austin 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  BISCUIT 

2  cups  bread  flour  4  tablespoons  butter 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder  cup  milk 

J4  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  working  in  butter  with  finger  tips.  Add 
milk,  stirring  it  in  with  knife.  Roll  thin,  spread  with  one-third 
cup  butter  creamed  with  three-quarters  cup  brown  sugar.  Roll 
up  like  jelly  roll;  cut  off  pieces  one  inch  thick.  Bake  in  round 
greased  muffin  tins.  M.  A.  Nichols,  Salem 

GERMAN  BREAD 

Scald  1  cup  milk  34  CUP  sugar 

Add  34  cup  butter  34  teaspoon  salt 

When  lukewarm  add  one-half  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one- 
quarter  cup  lukewarm  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten,  one-half  cup 
raisins,  flour  to  make  stiff  sponge.  Mrs.  C.  Streckwald 

CORN  FLAKE  MUFFINS 

1  egg  1  heaping  cup  corn  flakes 

34  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  flour 

Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  to  twenty -five  minutes. 

Mrs.  L.  E.  Small 

SPIDER  CORN  CAKE 
1 y  cups  Indian  meal  34  cup  sugar 

34  cup  white  flour  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  cups  sour  milk 

34  teaspoon  salt 

Put  two  tablespoons  shortening  in  hot  spider,  pour  in  the  mix¬ 
ture,  over  this  pour  one  cup  sweet  milk;  do  not  stir,  bake  in  hot 
oven.  Mrs.  Emelia  Frost 


1  snappy  cheese 
1  hard  boiled  egg 
4  pimentos 


SANDWICH  FILLING 

1  doz.  stuffed  olives 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
34  cup  melted  butter 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


81 


Mash  cheese  and  egg  yolk,  put  egg  white,  olives  and  pimentos 
through  chopper  and  add  to  cheese  and  egg  yolks;  mix  well,  then 
add  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  Fred  Roper 

DIXIE  BISCUIT 

3  pints  flour  Salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Lard  size  of  egg 

2  eggs  1/2  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

little  water 

Mix  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together,  then  the  yeast  cake, 
milk  and  flour.  Start  about  10.30  A.M.,  roll  out  about  four  P.M. 
and  let  rise.  Mrs.  W.  M.  Bennett,  Medford  Hillside 


PRIZE  BREAD 
(Four  Loaves) 

4  quarts  flour  1 34  qts.  liquid  (milk  and  water) 

2  heaping  tablespoons  sugar  1  tablespoon  lard 

1  heaping  tablespoon  salt  1  yeast  cake 

Sift  flour  and  salt  into  bread  mixer.  Dissolve  sugar  and  yeast 
in  a  bowl.  Then  melt  lard  and  add  to  the  sugar  and  yeast.  Add 
water  to  this  and  mix  into  flour.  Mix  until  all  separates  from 
mixer,  then  wrap  it  up  good  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning  if  it  has  risen  to  double  its  size,  it  is  ready  to  mould  out. 
Flour  the  board  and  knead  bread.  Marion  E.  Foster 


SEA  FOAM  ROLLS 

Pour  one  pint  of  scalding  hot  milk  on  one  tablespoon  butter, 
one  tablespoon  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  well.  When 
cool  add  one-half  yeast  cake  and  three  cups  flour.  Set  to  rise  for 
three  or  four  hours  and  add  flour  to  knead.  Raise  again  and 
knead  dough  again  and  roll  out  into  thickness  of  one  inch.  Cut 
into  biscuits.  Roll  each  biscuit  into  an  oblong  shape.  Brush  with 
butter  and  fold  over.  Brush  tops  with  butter.  Let  rise  until  very 
light.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Emma  Anderson,  E.  Lynn 


BREAD  STICKS 


1  cup  scalded  milk 
34  cup  butter 
134  tablespoons  sugar 
34  teaspoon  salt 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  i 
solved  yeast  cake,  white  of 


1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
34  cup  lukewarm  water 
1  egg  white 
3J34  cups  flour 

to  milk,  when  lukewarm  add  dis- 
;  well  beaten,  and  flour.  Knead, 


82 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


let  rise,  shape,  let  rise  again  and  start  baking  in  a  hot  oven,  re¬ 
ducing  heat  that  strips  may  be  crisp  and  dry. 

To  shape  strips:  first  shape  as  small  biscuits,  roll  on  board 
(where  there  is  no  flour)  with  hands  until  eight  inches  in  length, 
keeping  of  uniform  size  and  rounded  ends,  which  may  be  done  by 
bringing  fingers  close  to,  but  not  over,  ends  of  strips. 

Mrs.  E.  T.  Bowen,  Laconia,  N.  H. 

DUMPLINGS  I. 

With  every  cup  of  flour  use  one  heaping  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt;  use  milk  to  stir  as  stiff  as  possible 
with  strong  spoon,  having  a  little  dust  of  flour  that  is  not  mixed 
in.  Dip  the  spoon  in  the  stew,  then  in  dough,  cutting  off  small 
pieces  not  larger  than  hen’s  egg,  as  they  expand  to  twice  their 
size;  lay  around  on  top  of  the  stew,  then  draw  the  pan  they  are 
cooking  in  back  on  the  stove  so  they  will  not  burn,  keeping  just 
boiling  slowly  (this  is  the  secret) ;  leave  the  cover  off  until  the  dump¬ 
lings  are  like  puff  balls,  then  put  the  cover  over  them  until  they 
are  cooked.  Allow  about  twenty  minutes  for  cooking. 

Mrs.  Roscoe  Millett 

DUMPLINGS  II. 

1  pint  flour  sifted  with  Add 

2  even  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  eggs  well  beaten 

3^2  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  milk 

2  even  tablespoons  butter  (mix  well) 

Drop  in  boiling  broth,  cover  tight,  boil  ten  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  H.  Howe,  Los  Angeles 

BREAKFAST  CAKE 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
sifted  with  1  cup  flour 
1  heaping  tablespoon  corn 
meal 

Mrs.  Frank  W.  Sears,  Brockton 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  BAKING 
Bread  —  white  —  loaf  45-60  minutes 

Bread  —  Graham  35-45  minutes 

Baking  powder  biscuit  12-15  minutes 

Gems  or  muffins  25-30  minutes 


1  beaten  egg 
Little  salt 
3^2  cup  sugar 
1  cup  milk 


CAKE 


“With  weights  and  measures  just  and  true, 
Oven  of  even  heat; 

Well  buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerves, 
Success  will  be  complete.” 


FRUIT  CAKE 

J4  lb-  butter  1  teaspoon  spices  and  nutmeg 

x/l  lb.  flour  2  lbs.  raisins 

3^2  lb.  sugar  2  lbs.  currants 

5  eggs  J 4  lb.  citron 

%  cup  molasses — fill  cup  with  brandy 

Juice  of  1  lemon  and  the  grated  rind 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Battles 

(This  recipe  was  used  in  the  olden  days  for  the  Tewksbury 
girls’  wedding  cakes.) 

ROLL  JELLY  CAKE 

4  eggs  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  sugar  3^2  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  flour  Pinch  salt 

This  will  make  two  cakes.  Spread  thin  on  long  tins.  As  soon 
as  baked  turn  from  the  tins,  spread  jelly  over  the  cake  and  roll  it 
up  immediately.  This  will  not  break  in  rolling,  if  there  is  not  too 
much  flour.  It  will  keep  some  time  and  is  acknowledged  by  all  who 
try  it  to  be  the  best  they  ever  saw.  Mrs.  Joel  Baldwin 

COCOANUT  CAKE 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  orange  extract 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  separated  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  milk  M  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  shredded  cocoanut 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  until  creamy;  add  yolks  of  eggs  well 
beaten,  milk,  extract,  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt. 
Add  cocoanut  and  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put 
into  a  buttered  and  floured  cakepan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  30  minutes.  Mrs.  James  Hepburn 


LAZY  CAKE 

%  cup  butter,  melted  134  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  broken  into  cup  melted  butter  Pinch  of  salt 

Fill  balance  of  cup  with  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 


84 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Put  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  in  bowl  and  pour 
eggs,  butter,  milk  and  vanilla  over  them  and  beat  well. 

Mrs.  Harry  Pasho,  Billerica 


WORTH  WHILE  CAKE 
Place  sifter  in  mixing  bowl,  putting  in 
1  cup  sugar  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

\}/2  cups  sifted  flour  2  level  teaspoons  cream  of 

tartar 

Sift  all  these  ingredients  into  bowl.  Put  into  teacup  whites  of 
two  eggs.  Add  enough  melted  butter  to  half  fill  the  cup.  Add 
milk  to  fill  the  cup.  Add  these  to  mixing  bowl,  with  flavoring  and 
beat  five  minutes.  Another  loaf  or  two  layers  can  be  made  like¬ 
wise  with  the  yolks.  Mrs.  Royal  Stevens 


ECONOMY  CAKE 


1  cup  light  brown  sugar 
Y2  cup  sugar,  scant 
1  egg  (yolk  only) 
y2  cup  sour  milk 


J/2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
sour  milk 
2J/2  cups  flour 

1  cup  chopped  raisins,  spice 


y  cup  chopped  walnuts 
Make  frosting  of  white  of  egg  after  using  yolk.  Bake 
bread  tin  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Miss  Cate,  Danvers 


CUSHION  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  y  cup  sweet  milk 

14  cup  butter  %  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Divide  the  batter  and  in  one  half  put  two  tablespoons  mo¬ 
lasses,  one-fourth  teaspoon  clove,  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon, 
one  cup  raisins.  Put  dark  in  tin  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Re¬ 
move  carefully  from  oven,  spread  light  part  on  top,  beginning  at 
outer  edge  of  cake  and  work  into  the  center,  so  it  will  not  fall.  Re¬ 
turn  to  oven  and  bake  twentv  minutes  longer. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  King 


ROYAL  LOAF  CAKE 

Vyi  cups  sugar  W/l  cups  flour 

y  cup  butter  3  even  teaspoons  baking 

4  eggs  powder 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

Icing:  One  cup  granulated  sugar  and  one-third  cup  water 
boiled  to  thread.  Beat  white  of  egg  very  light.  Add  two  tea- 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


85 


spoons  of  granulated  sugar  and  whip  another  minute.  Add  boiling 
syrup  and  beat  until  ready  to  spread  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Ethel  F.  Hallett 
FUDGE  CAKE 

Cream  one  cup  of  sugar  and  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Add  yolks, 
(unbeaten)  of  two  eggs.  Dissolve  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda  in 
one-half  cup  of  milk  and  add  to  above  one  and  one-fourth  cups 
flour  (no  more)  and  beat;  then  take  one-half  cup  cocoa  or  choco¬ 
late  mixed  with  one-half  cup  milk  and  set  on  stove  to  heat.  Add 
same  to  the  above  mixture  while  hot.  Add  vanilla  and  beat  well. 

Mrs.  C.  Streckwald 


WELLESLEY  FUDGE  CAKE 
134  cups  sugar  234  cups  pastry  flour 

34  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

3  eggs  34  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  milk  Salt 

34  cup  walnuts  134  squares  chocolate 

Separate  eggs.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  fold  in  last. 

Frosting 

134  cups  confectioners’  sugar  134  tablespoons  butter 

34  square  chocolate  34  CUP  milk 

Salt  34  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  three  minutes.  Mrs.  Larkin  Chandler 


SPONGE  CAKE 


4  eggs  (beaten  separately) 
1  cup  sugar 
34  cup  potato  flour 
Pinch  salt 

Bake  in  slow  oven. 


34  cup  bread  flour 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
5  tablespoons  water 
1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  lemon 
Mrs.  John  A.  Johnson 


1  cup  sugar 
34  cup  butter 

1  cup  sour  milk 

2  cups  flour 


EGGLESS  CAKE 

1  cup  raisins 
1  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
34  teaspoon  cloves 
34  teaspoon  nutmeg 

M.  E.  Harris,  Belmont,  Mass. 


Whites  10  eggs 
134  cups  sugar 
Lemon  flavoring 


SEAFOAM  CAKE 

1  rounding  cup  flour 
34  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
mixed  in  flour 


86 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Beat  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Sift  sugar  in,  then  add  flour  in 
which  cream  of  tartar  has  been  mixed.  Stir  slightly,  just  enough 
to  mix  the  flour.  Bake  one  hour.  When  the  sizzling  sound  ceases, 
the  cake  is  done.  Mrs.  H.  J.  Dinsmore,  Westmoreland 


RIBBON  CAKE 

3  eggs  Yi  cup  milk 

Y  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Y  teaspoon  soda 

Bake  in  three  tins.  After  taking  out  two  layers,  add  to 
remainder:  1  cup  fruit,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  spices. 

Mrs.  H.  Hopkins,  Westmoreland,  N.  H. 


RIBBON  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

3  eggs  3  cups  flour 

YL  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

Add  a  little  salt  and  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon  or  almond. 
Put  half  the  above  in  two  oblong  pans.  To  the  remainder  add  one 
tablespoon  of  molasses,  one  large  cup  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  sliced,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoon  each  of  clove  and  allspice.  Grate  in  a  little  nutmeg 
and  add  one  tablespoon  of  flour.  Put  into  two  pans  of  same  size 
and  shape  as  those  above.  Put  the  sheets  together  while  warm, 
alternately  with  a  little  jelly  or  raspberry  jam  between.  Cut  in 
thin  slices  for  the  table.  It  will  cut  most  easily  the  day  after  it  is 
baked.  It  can  be  baked  in  one  large  pan  without  the  fruit,  pouring 
in  the  dark  and  light  in  alternate  layers.  When  baked  thus  it  is  a 
handsome  marble  cake.  ’It  can  also  be  baked  in  three  pans, 
with  two  plain  layers,  with  a  dark  layer  between. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Littlefield 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
13^2  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

Y  CUP  butter  Yl  cup  milk 

3  squares  Baker’s  chocolate  Y  teaspoon  soda 

3  tablespoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

3  tablespoons  boiling  water  1 %  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together.  Melt  chocolate,  add  boiling 
water  and  three  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Stir  until  glossy.  Add  to 
the  sugar  and  butter,  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  then  milk.  Sift 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  flour  into  the  mixture,  and  lastly, 
whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


87 


Frosting 

1  cup  sugar  y2  cup  water 

Boil  until  it  strings,  whip  white  of  egg  stiff,  add  syrup  slowly, 
beating  all  the  time.  Cut  marshmallows  on  top  of  cake  while  hot. 
Pour  frosting  over  all  when  cool.  Mrs.  Melvin  G.  Rogers 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  rubbed  to  a  cream  with  3^2  cups  flour 

2  cups  white  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Whites  of  8  eggs 

Bake  in  jelly  tins  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing,  flavored 
with  orange  to  spread  on  thick.  Mrs.  Eliot  H.  French 


EGYPTIAN  NUGGET  CAKE 
Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  very  gradually  one-half  cup 
sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  three  tablespoons  choco¬ 
late  dissolved  in  three  tablespoons  of  hot  water,  (just  let  that  come 
to  a  boil);  one-half  cup  milk,  then  beat  in  one  cup  of  flour  vigor¬ 
ously.  Add  to  this  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  flour  and  one  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  well, 
and  lastly  fold  in  the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Bake  in  layer  tins;  if 
round,  use  three. 

Filling 

1  cup  ground  walnuts  2  eggs 

3  teaspoons  powdered  sugar  1  cup  whipped  cream 

Salt 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately.  Mix  all  together 
and  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  a  few  minutes  before  putting  on 
cake.  Use  plain  frosting  on  top.  Mrs.  Lilly  Douglas 


WELLESLEY  LOAF  CAKE 
K  cup  butter  iy  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  %y  level  teaspoons  baking 

Yolks  2  eggs  powder 

x/l  cup  milk  Whites  2  eggs 

Yi  teaspoon  vanilla  2  squares  chocolate 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  gradually  while  beating  constantly; 
then  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  thick;  milk  and  flour  mixed  and 
sifted  with  baking  powder.  Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until 
stiff,  chocolate  melted  and  vanilla.  Turn  into  a  buttered  and 
floured  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  thirty-five  to  forty 
minutes.  Mrs.  H.  B.  Mason 


88 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


FRUIT  CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS 
cup  sugar  4  tablespoons  butter 

J/2  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  each,  cassia,  nut- 

1  cup  sour  milk  meg,  clove 

1  cup  raisins  1  teaspoon  soda 

cups  flour  3^2  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  spices  and  soda.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar, 
molasses  and  sour  milk  to  sifted  mixture  and  raisins.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  Mrs.  Samuel  Crown 

LIGHTNING  CAKE 

cup  butter  1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  134  cups  flour 

Milk  134  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Melt  butter,  drop  in  the  eggs  and  fill  cup  with  milk.  Sift 
sugar  with  flour  and  baking  powder.  Pour  contents  of  cup  into 
dry  ingredients  and  beat  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  Albert  J.  Trull 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 

6  egg  yolks  beaten  light  3dS  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  in 

(250  turns  of  beater)  %  cup  sifted  flour 

1  cup  sugar  added  gradually  6  egg  whites  beaten  stiff 

Mix  in  order  given ;  turn  into  Angel  Cake  pan  and  bake  forty- 
five  minutes  in  moderately  slow  oven. 

Frosting 

Juice  of  one  lemon  thickened  with  confectioners’  sugar. 

Kate  Lynch,  Danvers 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 
13^  cups  sugar  Piece  of  butter 

10  tablespoons  milk  2  squares  chocolate 

Let  come  to  hard  boil  for  about  one  minute.  Set  aside  to  cool 
and  then  beat  until  thick  so  as  to  spread. 

Mrs.  Howe,  Los  Angeles 

EGGLESS  SPICE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour  sifted  with 

Y2  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  each  soda,  cinna- 

1  cup  sour  milk  mon 

1  cup  floured  raisins  3^2  teaspoon  cloves,  nutmeg 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Ashton,  Andover 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


89 


OLD  FASHIONED  GINGER  CUP  CAKES 
cup  sugar  cups  flour 

Yi  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  lemon 

M  cup  butter  and  lard  1  teaspoon  ginger 

cup  hot  water  \y  teaspoons  soda 

?  eggs 

Put  butter  and  lard  in  hot  water  and  let  stand  one-half  hour 
before  baking.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Davenport 

ICE  WATER  SPONGE  CAKE 
cups  sugar  y  cup  ice  water 

iy  cups  flour  iy  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  eggs 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  and  one  tablespoon  water  very  thor¬ 
oughly.  Add  balance  of  water,  flour,  baking  powder  and  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Mrs.  N.  B.  Reed,  Lowell 

HOT  WATER  SPONGE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  well  beaten  sifted  in 

1  cup  flour 

Stir  well  together,  then  add  one-quarter  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Bake  quickly.  Mrs.  John  Trull 

SPONGE  CAKE 

Beat  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together,  two  minutes; 
add  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  beat  five  minutes;  one  cup 
flour  with  a  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  two  minutes. 
One-half  cup  cold  water  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved 
in  it  and  beat  one  minute.  Flavor  to  taste  and  add  a  little  salt 
and  another  cup  of  flour  and  beat  one  minute.  Observe  the  time 
exactly  and  bake  in  rather  a  deep  cake  tin  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Herbert  A.  King,  Billerica 


3  eggs 

2  cups  brown  sugar 
1  cup  shortening 
1  lb.  raisins  (seeded) 


Drop  from  spoon 


ROCKS 

Yl  lb.  walnuts  chopped  fine 
%y  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  soda 
2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 


Mrs.  E.  W.  Bailey,  No.  Tewksbury 


90 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


NUMBER  CAKE 


1  cup  butter  1  cup  currants 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

3  cups  flour  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

4  eggs  1  heaping  teaspoon  cream  of 

tartar 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

This  makes  two  loaves.  Mrs.  Emily  B.  Foster 


CHOCOLATE  MOCHA  CAKE 
Cream  together  one  large  tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  sugar, 
yolk  of  one  egg.  Stir  in  three-quarters  cup  milk,  one-quarter  tea¬ 
spoon  salt,  one  cup  flour  with  one  rounded  teaspoon  baking 
powder  sifted  into  it.  Melt  over  steam  two  squares  unsweetened 
chocolate,  stir  well,  adding  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  the  egg. 
Bake  in  two  layers  in  nine-inch  Washington  pie  tins  in  a  fairly 
hot  oven  about  twenty -five  or  thirty  minutes.  When  cool,  fill 
and  ice  with  the  following: 

1  cup  confectioners’  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  large  tablespoon  butter  2  teaspoons  dry  cocoa 

2  tablespoons  very  strong  black  coffee 
Beat  together  until  creamy  and  cover  top  and  sides  of  cake 
completely.  Alice  Doherty,  Danvers 


WEDDING  CAKE 

lb-  butter  34  cup  Maraschino  cherry  juice 

34  lb.  sugar  1  lb.  raisins 

4  eggs  —  adding  whites  last  1  lb.  currants 

2  tablespoons  molasses  6  oz.  citron,  shredded 

34  teaspoon  soda  (scant)  dissolved  1  small  jar  Maraschino  cher- 
in  2  tablespoons  milk  ries 

34  teaspoon  clove,  mace,  nutmeg,  10  oz.  flour 
cinnamon 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  two  hours. 

Alice  E.  Ramsay 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  sour  milk  with 
1  teaspoon  soda 
34  cup  butter 


DATE  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  with 
34  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
34  teaspoon  cinnamon 
34  teaspoon  cloves,  salt 


34  lb.  dates,  stoned  and  chopped 
Bake  in  slow  oven  one-half  hour.  Miss  Penniman 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


91 


ECONOMICAL  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
4  tablespoons  butter  1 }/%  cups  flour  sifted 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  egg  Pinch  salt 

cup  sour  milk  with  y  cup  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  tablespoons  cocoa 

Add  sour  milk  and  soda  to  creamed  butter  and  sugar.  Then 
sift  in  flour  and  salt.  Add  vanilla.  Lastly,  add  cocoa  dissolved  in 
boiling  water.  Mrs.  M.  Nichols,  Salem 


ORANGE  SPONGE  CAKE 
1  cup  sugar  Pinch  salt 

1  large  cup  flour  4  tablespoons  orange  juice 

1  rounded  teaspoon  baking  powder  3  eggs,  whites  beaten  sep¬ 
arately  and  added  last 

Frosting:  Orange  and  lemon  juice  mixed  with  confectioners’ 
sugar  to  spread.  Mrs.  Meister 


INEXPENSIVE  NUT  CAKE 

One  cup  sugar,  one  egg  and  yolk  of  another,  small  half  cup 
softened  but  not  melted  butter.  Put  all  in  mixing  bowl  and  with 
large  egg  beater  beat  until  like  cream.  Add  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk  and  one  and  three-fourths  cups  pastry  flour  with  one  tea¬ 
spoon  cream  of  tartar  and  one-half  teaspoon  soda  sifted  in;  pinch 
of  salt,  little  vanilla  and  one-half  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 

Mrs.  Philip  M.  Battles 


COCOANUT  CAKE 


}/2  cup  butter  creamed  }/%  CUP  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1%  cups  flour 

y2  cup  shredded  cocoanut  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  beaten  with  spoon  sifted  in  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Prepare  in  order  given.  Bake  in  slow  oven  thirty-five  to 
forty  minutes. 

Frosting 


Butter  size  small  egg  Confectioners’  sugar 

3  teaspoons  hot  milk  teaspoon  vanilla 

Shredded  cocoanut 

Mrs.  F.  Arthur  Osterman 


92 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


LAYER  CAKE 

%  cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1%  cups  flour 

1  egg  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Y  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  well  beaten  egg,  flavoring,  half 
the  milk  and  beat  well.  Add  one-half  the  flour  sifted  with  salt 
and  baking  powder.  Add  remainder  of  milk  and  flour  and  beat 
well.  Bake  in  two  or  three  cake  tins  in  moderate  oven  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Use  any  filling  or  frosting. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Nichols,  Montpelier 

WEDDING  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  2J4  cups  flour 

%Y  cups  sugar  4  cups  seeded  raisins  chopped 

1  nutmeg  grated  6  cups  currants 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  cloves  Yl  CUP  molasses 

6  eggs,  separating  whites  from  yolks  Yl  cup  fruit  juice 
4  cups  shredded  citron 

Cream  butter  with  one-half  of  sugar.  Add  spices,  remainder 
of  sugar  mixed  with  beaten  eggs.  Beat  mixture  five  minutes.  Add 
beaten  whites,  mix  flour  with  fruit;  add  to  first  mixture.  Stir 
baking  powder  into  molasses  and  fruit  juice,  adding  to  other  mix¬ 
ture,  stirring  thoroughly.  Line  a  large  cake  pan  with  oiled  paper 
and  fill  alternately  with  batter  and  shredded  citron.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  four  hours  or  steam  two  and  one-half  hours  and 
then  bake  one  and  one-half  hours,  or  simplest  of  all  send  to  a  bake 
shop  to  be  baked.  Mrs.  Annette  Manny 

CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE 
l}/2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  eggs 

Break  eggs  in  cup  and  fill  cup  with  cream.  Beat  all  together 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Linton  Moore,  Hancock,  N.  H. 

LAYER  CAKE  WITH  RAISIN  FILLING 
Y  CUP  butter  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  sugar,  creamed  Yi  teaspoon  soda 

Yl  cup  milk  Salt 

V/2  cups  flour  Lemon  extract 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


93 


Bake  in  two  round  tins. 

Yum  Yum  Frosting: 

Put  white  of  one  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  cold 
water  into  bowl  or  double  boiler  over  hot  water  and  beat  about 
seven  minutes  with  Dover  egg  beater.  Into  one-half  of  same  add 
one-half  cup  seeded  raisins.  Flavor  to  taste  and  spread  between 
layers,  using  the  plain  for  frosting  the  top  of  cake. 

This  recipe  is  also  nice  with  a  chocolate  frosting  between  the 
layers.  Mrs.  V.  E.  Darling 

ENGLISH  FRUIT  LOAF 
1  lb.  seeded  raisins  Pinch  salt 

1  lb.  currants  2  eggs 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  cups  milk 

8  even  tablespoons  butter  or  lard  4  even  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  ground  ginger  3  or  4  pieces  lemon  peel  cut 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  pinch  cloves  thin;  34  that  amount  citron 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  large  teaspoons  soda  sifted 

with  flour  last  of  all. 

Bake  in  slow  oven  two  hours.  Makes  two  large  loaves. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Chambers 


APPLE 

1  cup  sugar 
34  cup  shortening 
1  egg  beaten  well 
1  cup  apple  sauce 
1J4  cups  flour,  nutmeg 


SAUCE  CAKE 

1  heaping  teaspoon  soda  dis¬ 
solved  in  one  tablespoon 
hot  water 

1  cup  raisins,  chopped 
Salt 


Mix  the  soda  with  the  apple  sauce. 


Mrs.  Emily  Foster 


1  cup  sugar 
cup  butter 
34  cup  milk 
134  cups  flour 


cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter 
34  cup  milk 
Beaten  yolks  4  eggs 


LAYER  CAKE 
White  Part 
Salt 

34  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
Beaten  whites  4  eggs 
34  teaspoon  vanilla 
Yellow  Part 

34  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
sifted  with  1  cup  flour 
34  teaspoon  vanilla 


94 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Dark  Part 

Dissolve  one  square  chocolate  in  a  little  hot  water,  one  table¬ 
spoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  to  this  one  cup  of  batter, 
part  white  and  yellow.  Bake  in  square  tins. 

Filling 

One  square  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  one  cup  boiling  water, 
three-quarters  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Let  come  to  a 
boil.  Add  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch  dissolved  in  one-half 
cup  cold  water.  Stir  until  smooth;  add  vanilla.  Frost  with  choc¬ 
olate  icing.  Mrs.  F.  E.  Stevens,  Newburyport 


ORANGE 

34  CUP  butter 

1)4  cups  sugar  (sifted) 

3  egg  yolks 
Salt 


LAYER  CAKE 
%  cup  milk 
234  cups  flour 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  tablespoon  orange  extract 


Whites  3  eggs  beaten  stiff  added  last 
Mix  as  butter  cake  and  bake  in  two  well  greased  layer  cake 
pans  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cool  and  cut  each  into 
two  parts  and  make  four  layers  and  fill  with  orange  filling. 

Orange  Filling 

One  egg  beaten,  rind  of  one  orange  and  juice  of  half  an  orange 
and  frosting  sugar  enough  to  spread  smoothly. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Patten 

WALNUT  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
34  cup  chocolate  powder  1  cup  sugar 

34  cup  butter  2  egg  yolks 

134  cups  flour  234  teaspoons  baking  powder 

34  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

1  cup  walnut  meats  1  teaspoon  vanilla  Salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten  and 
flour  with  which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted;  milk  and  choc¬ 
olate  moistened  with  hot  water.  Beat  well,  add  walnut  meats. 
I  sometimes  bake  in  pie  tins  and  spread  half  of  cake  with  chocolate 
powder  moistened  with  a  little  boiling  water.  Flavor  with  vanilla 
and  frost  with  white  frosting  with  half  nut  meats  over  cake. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Young 


134  cups  sugar 
2  eggs 

34  cup  butter 


ROCHESTER  JELLY  CAKE 
%  cup  milk 
2  heaping  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
34  teaspoon  soda 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


95 


Dissolve  last  two  ingredients  in  the  milk.  Put  half  of  above 
mixture  in  Washington  pie  tins.  To  the  remainder  add  one  tea¬ 
spoon  molasses,  one-half  cup  chopped  raisins;  cinnamon,  cloves, 
allspice  and  nutmeg  to  fill  one-half  teaspoon;  one  tablespoon  flour. 
Put  sheets  of  cake  together  with  jelly  while  hot. 

Mrs.  O.  J.  Darby,  Billerica 


PINEAPPLE  CAKE 

M  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  pineapple  liquid  drained 

2  eggs  from  can  of  pineapple,  also 

2  cups  flour  little  pulp 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs  well  beaten,  sifted  flour 
and  baking  powder,  then  liquid  pineapple.  Beat  well  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  W.  Leaver 


MY  OWN  NUT  CAKE 

Cream  together  one  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  then 
add  two  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  then  beat  again; 
one  and  three-quarters  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one-fourth  pound  walnut  meats;  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Mix 
in  order  given,  bake  about  thirty -five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Florence  L.  Garlick 


2  lbs.  flour 

7  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  mixed  spice  (clove, 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon) 

Rub  in  lb.  butter 


ENGLISH  SPICE  CAKE 
1  lb.  sugar 


1  pkg.  Not-a-Seed  raisins 
34  pkg.  currants 
3^  lb.  lemon  or  orange  peel 
cut  fine 

34  cup  walnut  meats  cut  fine 
2  beaten  eggs 

Mix  all  with  milk.  Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  one  and  one-half  hours.  Mrs.  Ellen  Speke 


PARK  ST.  OR  SODA  SPONGE  CAKE 


2  cups  sugar 
1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
J4  teaspoon  soda 

This  makes  two  pans. 


34  cup  butter 

3  cups  flour 

4  eggs 

Flavor  to  taste 
Miss  M.  F.  Spaulding 


96 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Yi  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 
Pinch  salt 

cup  milk 


NUT  CAKE 

2  cups  flour 
3^2  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
1  cup  broken  walnut  meats 
Flavoring 

Mrs.  Patrick  Nash 


CHOCOLATE  NUT  CAKE 

yi  cup  butter  2^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  3^2  cup  milk 

2  eggs  3^2  cup  chopped  meats 

1Y  cups  flour  2  squares  melted  chocolate 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually.  Add  eggs  well  beaten. 
Mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder;  add  milk,  nuts  and  melted 
chocolate. 

Frosting 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoon  marshmallow 

3^  cup  thin  cream  cream 

Y  cup  nut  meats  Y.  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  sugar  and  cream;  boil  until  it  hairs  slightly.  Then  place 
in  dish  of  cold  water  until  partly  cooled.  Then  add  marshmallow 
cream,  vanilla  and  nut  meats.  Beat,  but  do  not  stir,  until  thick 
enough  to  spread  on  cake. 

Dorothy  B.  Cutler,  E.  Jaffrey,  N.  H. 

AUNT  ETTA’S  WEDDING  CAKE 


2  cups  butter 
4  cups  flour 
2  cups  sugar 
10  eggs 

1  cup  strawberry  preserves 
1  cup  molasses 

More  reasins  may  be  added 
large  or  three  small  loaves. 

Mrs.  Rockwell  Richardson,  Dracut 


Almost  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  large  teaspoon  of  each  kind 
spice 

Y  teaspoon  soda 

2  lbs.  raisins 

3  lbs.  currants  1  lb.  citron 
if  desired.  This  will  make  two 


WALNUT  CAKE 

13^2  cups  sifted  flour 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking 
powder 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  cut  fine 
1  cup  chopped  nut  meats 
Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  John  Dupee 


1  cup  Karo  syrup 
3/£  cup  shortening 
Yl  cup  milk 

2  eggs 


The  Home-Maker9 s  Cookbook 


97 


ORANGE  CAKE 

24  cup  sugar  34  teaspoon  vanilla 

34  cup  butter  1 %  cups  flour 

2J4  teaspoons  baking  powder  34  cup  milk 
34  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten. 
Sift  salt,  baking  powder  and  flour  together;  add  a  little  flour,  beat, 
then  add  more  flour.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  add 
vanilla.  Bake  in  two  well  greased  pans. 

Orange  Frosting 

Wash  a  smooth  skinned  orange  and  grate  the  rind  into  a  bowl; 
add  juice  and  yolk  of  egg.  Add  confectioners’  sugar  enough  to 
spread.  Mrs.  Grace  Fox,  Dracut 

FRUIT  CAKE 

34  cup  shortening  34  teaspoon  baking  powder 

134  cups  sugar  34  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  34  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  sour  milk  with  1  teaspoon  3  cups  flour,  well  sifted 
soda 

1  cup  raisins  or  34  lb-  nuts  chopped 
Bake  about  forty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Alice  E.  Ramsay 


SILVER 

134  cups  butter  I 
d/  1  >  cream 

134  cups  sugar  j 

24  teaspoon  vanilla 
4  egg  whites  beaten  stiff,  added 
to  sugar  and  butter 


CAKE 
24  cup  milk 

234  cups  pastry  flour  into  which 
sift 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt 


Can  be  baked  in  stem  pan  as  for  Angel  Cake. 

Mrs.  Ada  Burnham 


DARK  CAKE 

J4  teaspoon  nutmeg 
2  tablespoons  shortening 

2  cups  raisins 

3  cups  flour 
Y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  soda 
Boil  sugar,  water  and  spices  five  minutes.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  raisins  and  shortening.  Let  stand  until  cool;  add  flour,  salt 
and  soda.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. 


2  cups  brown  sugar 
1  cup  water 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  clove 
34  teaspoon  allspice 


Mrs.  James  O’Connell 


98 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


LEMON  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  cold  water 

1  good  teaspoon  cornstarch  Butter  size  of  walnut 

1  egg  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon 

Cook  in  double  boiler  and  cool  before  spreading. 

Miss  Grant,  Danvers 

DEVIL’S  FOOD  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  2  squares  melted  chocolate 

34  cup  butter  Yi  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg  34  teaspoon  baking  powder 

34  cup  sour  milk  }/$  teaspoon  salt 

1J4  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

34  cup  boiling  water 

Add  water  the  last  thing  before  putting  in  pan. 

Mrs.  Arthur  D.  Ramsay 


NUT  FRUIT  CAKE 

34  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

2  cups  sugar  Y  teaspoon  soda 

3  eggs  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  sweet  milk  Little  salt 

1  cup  each  of  chopped  raisins  and  chopped  nuts  (not  too  fine) 
Makes  two  loaves  and  is  very  good  indeed. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Foster 


COCOANUT  CAKE 
1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

J4  cup  butter  1J4  cups  flour 

34  cup  milk  1J4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Bake  in  two  round  tins.  One  cup  sweet  cream  whipped  and 
sweetened  to  taste,  spread  between  cakes.  Sprinkle  with  cocoa- 
nut,  also  put  over  top  of  cake.  You  will  have  a  moist,  nice  looking 
cake.  Mrs.  Chas.  W.  French,  Arlington,  Mass. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

1  cup  of  sugar  134  cups  flour  (scant) 

34  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

34  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  (sometimes  an  extra  white  or  2  squares  melted  chocolate 
yolk) 

Bake  fifty  minutes  and  after  taking  from  pan,  cover  the  bot¬ 
tom  with  half  marshmallows  and  then  cover  with  cloth  and  let 
stand  so  as  to  melt  marshmallows.  Frost  after  cake  is  cool,  with 
chocolate  frosting. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


99 


Frosting 

Dissolve  confectioners’  sugar  with  boiled  milk  and  one  table¬ 
spoon  of  melted  butter  and  add  one  square  of  melted  chocolate 
and  thicken  with  confectioners’  sugar.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Frances  E.  Trull 

WATERMELON  CAKE 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  butter  Yi  teaspoon  soda 

3  eggs  beaten  light  3  cups  flour 

1  cup  milk  Pinch  salt 

Vanilla 

Take  a  part  of  this  mixture  and  color  with  strawberry  color¬ 
ing.  Into  a  well  buttered  Angel  Cake  tin,  put  the  white  part  on 
the  outer  edge  first,  then  working  quickly,  put  next  the  tunnel  the 
pink  part,  stirring  in  one-half  a  cup  of  whole  seeded  raisins  (or 
cut  lengthwise  in  two  pieces,  if  preferred)  the  last  thing.  This 
will  make  one  large  cake  or  two  small  ones. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Tingley 


LAYER  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  lj^  cups  flour 

2  tablespoons  shortening  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  and  yolk  of  another  Pinch  of  salt 

%  cup  sweet  milk  Flavor  with  vanilla 

Maple  Frosting 

1  cup  maple  sugar  4  tablespoons  water 

Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Beat  white  of 
egg  stiff,  then  turn  in  sugar  and  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  lay  on 
cake.  Mrs.  Frank  M.  Bonnett,  E.  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt. 


ENGLISH  TEA  CAKES 


yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
cup  lukewarm  water 
cups  flour 

egg 


1  cup  scalded  milk  1 

Y±  cup  sugar  Yi 

2  tablespoons  butter  3 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  1 

y2  cup  seedless  raisins 
Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk,  when  lukewarm  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake,  flour  and  egg  well  beaten.  When  mixed,  add 
raisins,  cover  and  let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  shape  in 
form  of  large  biscuits,  let  rise,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Florrie  L.  Nash 


100 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


DATE  CAKE 

1  lb.  English  walnut  meats,  whole  1  lb.  dates,  stoned 

Sift  over  them  one  cup  flour,  3^2  teaspoon  salt,  two  large  tea¬ 
spoons  baking  powder,  sifted  together  three  times.  Mix  well; 
add  one  cup  sugar  and  yolks  of  four  eggs  beaten  very  light  and  one 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Finally  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs. 
Bake  one  hour  in  Angel  Cake  tin  in  slow  oven.  Plain  white  icing. 

Mrs.  Howard  Foster 

SPICE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  1  cream  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  tablespoon  butter  j  1  scant  teaspoon  each  cin- 

1  egg  namon  and  clove 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  cup  raisins 

l}/2  cups  flour 

Mrs.  George  Garland 

CREAM  CAKES 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  flour 

y<L  cup  butter  3  eggs 

Put  water  and  butter  on  the  stove;  when  butter  is  melted  and 
water  boiling,  add  the  flour  and  stir  till  flour  is  blended.  When 
cool  beat  the  eggs  in  one  at  a  time.  This  should  make  twelve. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Fleming 

BEST  ONE-EGG  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
One  cup  sugar,  one  large  tablespoon  butter  creamed;  one  egg 
yolk,  good  one-half  cup  milk.  Sift  together  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one  cup  flour  and  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  tea¬ 
spoons  cornstarch.  Add  and  beat  well,  then  add  two  squares 
melted  chocolate  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla;  add  the  stiffly 
beaten  egg  white  last.  Bake  until  it  shrinks  from  sides  of  pan. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Bennett,  Medford  Hillside 

SCRIPTURE  CAKE 

43^2  cups  of  1. Kings  4-22  2  tablespoons  of  I.  Samuel  14-25 

13^2  cups  Judge  5-25  (last  clause)  Season  to  taste  II.  Chronicles 

2  cups  Jeremiah  6-20  9-9 

2  cups  of  I.  Samuel  30-12  Six  of  Jeremiah  17-11 

2  cups  of  Nahum  3-12  A  pinch  of  Leviticus  2-13 

1  cup  of  Numbers  17-8  x/i  CUP  Judge  4-19  (last  clause) 

2  teaspoons  Amos  4-5  (baking  powder) 

Follow  Solomon’s  prescription  for  making  a  good  boy,  Prov¬ 
erbs  23-14,  and  you  will  have  a  good  cake.  Mrs.  Shedd 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


101 


BLUEBERRY  CAKE 

Yl  cup  butter  Yl  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  milk  2  eggs 

3  cups  flour  1  Yl  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  1  pt.  berries 

Mrs.  Chas.  H.  Kittredge 

DARK  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  j  cream  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  gin- 

1  cup  white  sugar  }  together  ger,  allspice,  clove 

1  cup  dark  molasses  Level  teaspoon  soda 

4  eggs  beaten  light  Few  grains  salt 

3  cups  flour 

Mix  in  order  given,  then  add: 

1  lb.  raisins  1  lb.  currants 

Y  lb.  citron  chopped  fine  or  lemon  peel 
Bake  slowly  two  hours.  This  makes  two  loaves.  I  always 
bake  mine  in  the  afternoon  because  the  oven  is  just  right.  When 
cool,  wrap  in  cloth  and  put  in  jar. 

Mrs.  Walter  W.  Lavell 

MOCK  ANGEL  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  Y  teaspoon  salt 

1Y  cups  flour  Y  cup  scalded  milk 

Yl  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  1  teaspoon  almond  or  vanilla 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  Whites  3  eggs 

Mix  and  sift  first  five  ingredients  four  times.  Add  milk  very 
slowly  while  still  hot,  beating  continually;  add  vanilla,  mix  well 
and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  light.  Bake  in  a  very  slow 
oven  about  forty -five  minutes  in  ungreased  angel  cake  tin.  Invert 
pan  and  let  stand  until  cold. 

White  Icing 

\y  cups  confectioners’  sugar  Yl  teaspoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  hot  milk  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  butter  to  hot  milk,  add  sugar  slowly. 

Grace  E.  Gardner,  Lowell 

GOLDEN  CREAM  CAKE 
1  cup  sugar  Beaten  whites  3  eggs 

cup  butter  creamed  together  V/i  cups  flour 
Y  cup  sweet  milk  1  Yl  level  teaspoons  baking 

powder 


102 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


Bake  in  layers. 

For  Filling:  Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar  and  two  table¬ 
spoons  thick  cream  beaten  together  until  very  light.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Clancy 

LANCASHIRE  TEA  CAKE 
53^2  cups  flour  Y2  lb.  currants 

3^2  cup  butter  2  oz.  candied  lemon 

2  cups  milk  2  eggs 

1  yeast  cake  in  Y  cup  water  2  tablespoons  sugar 

A  little  salt  A  little  grated  nutmeg 

Put  the  sugar  and  currants  with  the  flour;  melt  the  butter  in 
the  milk  which  must  be  scalded,  and  when  cool  enough,  mix  with 
the  well  beaten  eggs  and  yeast.  Add  the  dry  ingredients,  beating 
all  well,  and  set  away  to  rise.  When  light,  put  in  cake  pans  to 
rise  again  to  double  the  bulk.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
These  are  delicious  when  fresh,  and  equally  good  split  and  roasted 
the  second  day.  Mrs.  M.  J.  Smith 


PIES 


“Bread,  men  say,  is  the  staff  of  life, 

But  they  will  oft  concede 
That  were  it  not  for  our  dainty  pies, 

The  staff  would  be  heavy  indeed.” 

PIE  PASTRY 

In  making  pastry  it  is  very  necessary  that  all  the  ingredients 
should  be  cold  and  handled  as  little  as  possible,  with  a  light  touch. 
There  is  a  difference  of  opinion  in  regard  to  flour,  many  preferring 
pastry  flour,  while  others  from  choice  use  bread  flour  with  excellent 
results.  Lard  makes  a  tender,  flaky  crust;  butter  gives  a  better 
flavor  and  is  considered  more  wholesome.  A  mixture  of  both 
makes  a  very  good  crust. 

PLAIN  PASTE 

Three  cups  of  pastry  flour,  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon 
sugar,  pinch  of  soda,  three-quarters  cup  of  lard,  one-fourth  cup  of 
butter,  cold  water.  Mrs.  S.  P.  Pike 

PIE  PASTRY 

\x/i  cups  bread  flour  4  tablespoons  lard 

Salt  4  tablespoons  cold  water 

This  makes  one  pie.  It  cannot  be  beaten  if  the  rule  is  fol¬ 
lowed  exactly.  Mrs.  Larkin  Chandler 

LEMON  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  and  2  lemons 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  mixed  Grated  rind  1  lemon 

2  eggs  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  butter 
Cook  until  thick  and  bake  in  one  crust. 

Mrs.  Channing  H.  Cox 
(Personally  contributed) 

WASHINGTON  PIE 

2  eggs  beaten  separately  Yi  cup  hot  water  with  a  good 

1  cup  sugar  added  to  yolks  tablespoon  butter  melted  in 

it 

Sift  together  one  heaping  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda.  Add  whites  of  eggs  last;  vanilla. 
Bake  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Melvin  G.  Rogers 


104 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


LEMON  SPONGE  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  Juice  and  grated  rind  1  lemon 

34  cup  butter  creamed  2  well  beaten  egg  yolks 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

Little  salt  2  well  beaten  egg  whites,  last 

Bake  in  one  crust.  This  is  a  firm  lemon  jelly  on  the  bottom 

and  sponge  cake  on  top.  Bake  day  before  needed  and  spread 

whipped  cream  on  top.  Mrs.  Everett  Mountain 

BOSTON  CREAM  PIE 

Cream  part:  Put  on  a  pint  of  milk  to  boil;  break  two  eggs 
into  a  dish  and  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  flour  pre¬ 
viously  mixed.  After  beating  well,  stir  it  into  the  milk  just  as  the 
milk  commences  to  boil.  Add  an  ounce  of  butter  and  keep  on 
stirring  one  way  until  it  thickens.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon. 

Crust  part:  Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  granu¬ 
lated  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour,  one  large  teaspoon 
baking  powder  and  two  tablespoons  of  milk  or  water.  Divide  the 
batter  in  half  and  bake  on  two  medium-sized  pie  tins.  Bake  in  a 
rather  quick  oven  to  a  straw  color.  When  done  and  cool,  split 
each  one  in  half  with  a  sharp,  broad-bladed  knife  and  spread  half 
the  cream  between  each.  Serve  cold.  The  cake  part  should  be 
flavored  the  same  as  the  custard. 

Mrs.  Susan  Farmer 
Mrs.  Roscoe  E.  Millett 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE 
34  cup  cocoa  3  eggs 

34  cup  cornstarch  Yl  CUP  sugar 

2  cups  milk  Pinch  salt 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Mix  cocoa,  sugar,  cornstarch,  egg  yolks,  salt  and  milk.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Flavor  with  van¬ 
illa.  Pour  into  a  baked  pie  crust  shell,  cover  with  meringue  made 
by  beating  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  adding  two  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Brown  in  oven,  serve  cold.  Mrs.  Walter  P.  Fuller 

DATE  CUSTARD  PIE 
2  cups  milk  2  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  dates  1  tablespoon  sugar 

34  teaspoon  salt 

(I  use  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  as  we  like  desserts  sweet.)  Heat 
milk  and  dates.  Beat  eggs  slightly  and  add  sugar  and  salt.  Add 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


105 


hot  milk  and  dates  and  pour  into  pastry  lined  pie  pan.  Put  into 
hot  oven.  After  ten  minutes,  reduce  heat  and  bake  twenty -five  to 
thirty  minutes  longer,  or  until  custard  is  firm. 

Mrs.  Ada  L.  Randall,  Daytona,  Florida 

CREAM  PIE  SHELLS 
3  egg  yolks  2  cups  flour 

\}/2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

}/2  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Mix  in  order  given  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven  in  two  round  pans  and  either 
use  whipped  cream  or  old-fashioned  cream. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Patten 
LEMON  PIE 

Moisten  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold 
water;  then  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  stirring  briskly  until  corn¬ 
starch  is  cooked.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  butter  and  cup  of  sugar. 
When  slightly  cool,  add  one  egg,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.  Mrs.  John  Trull 

RHUBARB  PIE 

Skin  and  cut  stalks  of  rhubarb  in  half-inch  pieces  before 
measuring;  there  should  be  one  and  one-half  cups.  Mix  seven- 
eighths  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  flour  and  one  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Add  to  rhubarb  with  a  few  raisins  and  bake  between 
crusts.  Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Hammett,  Newport,  R.  I. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE 

1  finely  chopped  pineapple  2  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Bake  with  two  crusts.  Makes  two  large  and  one  small  pie. 

Mrs.  C.  T.  Briard,  W.  Somerville 

LEMON  PIE 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  crust.  Prick  a  few  holes  with  a 
fork  and  bake. 

Filling:  Grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  squeeze  in  the  juice. 
Add  one  large  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  small 
piece  of  butter,  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  When  this  boils,  thicken 
with  four  heaping  teaspoons  of  cornstarch  that  has  been  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  water.  Turn  filling  in  pie.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff, 
spread  on  top  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Irving  Locke,  E.  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt. 


106 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


BAKERS’  CUSTARD  PIE 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  to  a  cream.  Stir  thoroughly  a 
tablespoon  of  sifted  flour  into  three  tablespoons  of  sugar.  This 
separates  the  flour  so  there  will  be  no  lumps.  Then  add  it  to  the 
beaten  yolks,  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg;  next  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and 
lastly  a  pint  of  scalded  milk  (not  boiled)  which  has  been  cooled; 
mix  this  in  by  degrees  and  turn  all  into  a  deep  pie  pan  lined  with 
puff  paste  and  bake  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes.  The  ad¬ 
dition  of  the  flour  prevents  the  custard  from  breaking  or  wheying. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Millett 


TARTS 

1  pint  of  flour  }/£  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Y$  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  sugar 

A  little  salt 

Sift  together,  then  rub  in  good  two-thirds  cup  of  lard,  one 
egg  white  beaten  stiff.  Add  to  four  tablespoons  cold  water,  then 
add  to  flour.  Roll  thin,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  place  on  top 
one  cut  with  a  doughnut  cutter.  Mrs.  Della  Small 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE 
1  cup  brown  sugar  3^2  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  Yolks  2  eggs  stirred  into 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  scalded  milk 

When  thick,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  baked  pie 
shells.  Use  the  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Patten 

TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 

Chop  fine,  four  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  drain  off  all  the 
juice,  cover  with  cold  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  scald  for 
thirty  minutes;  drain  again,  add  two  lbs.  of  brown  sugar,  one  lb. 
seeded  raisins,  one-half  lb.  chopped  citron,  one  large  cup  chopped 
suet,  one  tablespoon  salt,  one  small  cup  of  vinegar.  Stir  well,  cook 
until  thick  enough.  Add  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  nutmeg.  Put  up  boiling  hot.  Mrs.  J.  F.  French 

PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Take  one-half  can  of  pineapple  chopped  fine  and  add  two- 
thirds  cup  sugar,  one  beaten  egg,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
flour  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  juice  of  the  pineapple,  and  add  one 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


107 


cup  of  juice.  Add  water  if  not  enough  juice  to  make  a  cupful. 
Stir  all  together  and  bake  with  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  E.  E.  Morrill 


MOCK  CHERRY  PIE 

Wash  and  chop  one  cup  stoned  raisins  and  one  and  one-half 
cups  cranberries,  one  cup  water,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  flour, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly  and  bake  with  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  George  Garland 


CRANBERRY  PIE 

23^2  cups  cranberries  Little  butter 

\x/i  cups  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  %  cup  water 

Cook  sugar,  cornstarch,  butter  and  water;  turn  over  the  cran¬ 
berries,  finely  chopped.  Bake  with  two  crusts.  This  makes  two 
pies.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Kittredge,  Nashua,  N.H. 


MINCE  MEAT 


3  lbs.  beef  (boil  2  or  3  hours) 

2  lbs.  currants 

1  lb.  mixed  peel  (minced) 

2  lbs.  suet  (minced) 

8  lbs.  apples,  chop  part  and  grind 
part 

2  lbs.  sultana  raisins 
2  lbs.  large  raisins 


oz.  cloves 
oz.  cinnamon 
y  oz.  mace 

1  tablespoon  salt 

2  lemons,  including  rind 
2  oranges,  including  rind 
1  quart  cider 

1  cup  molasses 

2  quarts  juice  of  meat 


2  lbs.  brown  sugar 

2  nutmegs,  grated 
Chop  or  mince  meat  when  cold  and  mix  with  seasonings. 
Gradually  add  raisins,  suet,  etc.,  then  apples.  Leave  on  back  of 
stove,  low  heat,  several  hours.  Mrs.  Mary  J.  Ramsay 


CRANBERRY  AND  RAISIN  PIE 
2  cups  cranberries  2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  raisins  cooked  with  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  egg 

Cook  cranberries  and  raisins  with  water  until  tender;  then 
add  sugar,  butter  and  egg.  Line  a  plate  with  rich  crust  and  fill  with 
the  mixture,  putting  strips  of  the  paste  over  the  top. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Lee 


WASHINGTON  OR  CREAM  PIES 
Beat  three  eggs,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  beat;  one 
cup  flour,  beat;  two-thirds  cup  hot  water,  beat;  one  cup  flour 


108 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  beat;  add  flavor¬ 
ing.  Make  two  pies  or  can  be  used  for  jelly  roll. 

Mrs.  B.  A.  Cluff,  Dracut 

FUDGE  PIE 

34  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  134  CUPS  flour 

1  egg  34  cup  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  cocoa  Vanilla 

34  cup  sour  milk  Salt 

Beat  together,  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  other  ingredients. 
Bake  in  Washington  pie  tins. 

Filling 

%  cup  sugar  Little  salt 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  Vanilla 

2  tablespoons  cocoa  1J4  cups  water 

Little  butter 

Boil  until  thick  and  spread  between  cakes. 

Mrs.  Walter  Smith 


PUMPKIN  PIE 

1  heaping  pint  pumpkin  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

4  eggs  34  teaspoon  ginger 

2  tablespoons  flour  3^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Butter  size  of  small  egg  1  teaspoon  salt 

134  cups  sugar  134  pints  rich  milk 

2  tablespoons  of  molasses  if  desired 
Stew  pumpkin  slowly.  Mix  and  bake  in  one  crust, 
amount  makes  two  pies.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  S.  P.  Pike 


This 


PINEAPPLE  PIE 

Heat  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  mix  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  salt  and  two  tablespoons  cornstarch  and  slow¬ 
ly  add  hot  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  cornstarch 
is  thoroughly  cooked.  Pour  over  two  egg  yolks  and  cook  about 
three  minutes  longer.  Cool  and  add  one  cup  well  drained,  grated 
pineapple  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  baked  crust 
and  cover  with  two  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  with  two  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar.  Brown  quickly  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  Leaver 

BAKEWELL  PIE 

Line  a  shallow  pan  with  rich  pastry,  put  a  layer  of  raspberry 
jam  and  over  that  a  mixture  consisting  of  one  oz.  butter,  two  oz. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


109 


sugar,  one-half  oz.  ground  almonds,  one-half  oz.  flour,  two  eggs  and 
lemon  flavoring.  Mrs.  T.  W.  Davies 

SOUR  MILK  PIE 

34  cup  thick  sour  milk  1  egg 

34  cup  chopped  raisins  34  cracker  rolled  fine 

34  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  vinegar 

34  teaspoon  clove,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  salt 
Use  large  cup  for  measuring.  Bake  in  two  crusts  like  mince 
pie.  Jennie  F.  Blodgett,  Billerica 


MINCE 

3  lbs.  chopped  meat,  uncooked 
top  of  round 

34  lb.  chopped  suet 

4  lbs.  chopped  apple 
134  lbs.  chopped  raisins 
2  lbs.  currants 

1  lb.  citron  cut  in  very  thin,  small 
pieces 

8  teaspoons  salt 

Cook  one  hour  after  mixture 


MEAT 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar 

1  large  cup  molasses 

1  quart  boiled  cider 

34  lb.  chopped  lemon  and  or¬ 
ange  peel 

3  tablespoons  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  mace 

2  tablespoons  nutmeg 
1  tablespoon  clove  (scant) 
ioils. 

Mrs.  Howard  Foster 


MINCE  MEAT 


3  bowls  of  chopped  meat 
5  bowls  chopped  apples 
1  bowl  molasses 
134  bowls  sugar 

1  bowl  suet 

2  pkgs.  raisins 

2  grated  nutmegs 


2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
2  teaspoons  clove 
Grated  rind  2  lemons 
1  pint  cider 
1  cup  citron 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1  pkg.  currants 


Chopped  apple  and  meat  put  together  in  kettle.  Heat  mo¬ 
lasses  and  cider  together  and  pour  on  the  mince;  put  on  the  stove 
and  add  suet,  sugar,  raisins  and  currants.  Cook  half  an  hour,  then 
take  off,  add  spices  and  other  ingredients. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Kelley 


SUGGESTIONS 

The  combination  of  rhubarb  and  prunes  makes  a  delicious 
pie.  The  prunes  are  just  what  the  rhubarb  needs  to  cover  its 
acidity.  Brush  pie  crust  with  cream  or  milk  to  insure  rich  brown 
color.  Mrs.  A.  G.  Kelley 


110 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


WALNUT  CREAM  PIE 

Yolks  2  eggs  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  chopped  wal- 

1  pint  milk  nut  meats  Vanilla 

Crust  like  a  custard  pie. 

Mrs.  S.  G.  Pillsbury,  Dracut 


1  large  cup  squash 
%  cup  sugar 

1  egg,  (two  would  be  better) 
(If  not  two,  1  tablespoon  flour) 


SQUASH  PIE 

A  little 


salt, 

allspice 
1  pint  of  milk 
Makes  one  pie. 
Mrs.  George  E. 


nutmeg  and 


Bennett 


RHUBARB  MERINGUE  PIE 
1  tablespoon  flour  stirred  into  Beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  water 

Mix  well,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  finely  cut  rhu¬ 
barb.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  rich  pastry.  Fill  with  mixture  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  two 
tablespoons  confectioners’  sugar  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Spread  over  the  pie  when  cool  and  return  to  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Manter  E.  Garland 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour  or  cornstarch  2  tablespoons  butter 
2  eggs  well  beaten  Vanilla  and  salt 

Bake  like  custard  pie.  Use  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  or 
whipped  cream  on  top.  Miss  Annie  L.  Ellis 

CREAM  LEMON  PIE 

Beat  yolks  of  3  eggs  3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

Yl  cup  sugar  Juice  and  grated  rind  1  lemon 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thin  custard.  Whites  of  three 
eggs  well  beaten  with  one-half  cup  sugar  beaten  into  custard. 
Pour  into  a  crust  already  baked  in  pie  plate  and  brown  lightly  in 
oven.  M.  Howe,  Danvers 

MOCK  MINCE  MEAT  PIE 
1  cup  sugar  Add  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  egg  *  1  cup  raisins  chopped 

Butter  size  of  small  egg  teaspoon  clove,  cinnamon, 

Pinch  of  salt  nutmeg 

Mix  well.  Mrs.  Meister 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


111 


COCOANUT  TARTS 
Line  gem  pan  with  rich  pie  crust. 

Filling: 

1  cup  sugar  creamed  with  1  egg 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut  34  cup  milk 

1  scant  cup  cocoanut 

Recipe  for  twelve  tarts.  Mrs.  B.  A.  Cluff 

CHERRY  PIE  FILLING 
134  cups  canned  sour  cherries  1  cup  sugar 

34  cup  chopped  raisins  1  common  cracker  rolled  fine 

Pinch  of  salt  Mrs.  Chas.  W.  French,  Arlington 

RAISIN  PIE 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  1  dessertspoon  cornstarch 

34  cup  sugar  Butter  size  of  nutmeg 

Cook  raisins,  add  sugar,  cornstarch  and  butter;  cook  one 
minute.  Bake  with  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  Jane  M.  Kittredge,  Nashua,  N.  H. 

BRAMBLES 

1  egg  1  cracker  rolled  fine 

1  cup  sugar  34  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Bake  between  two  rich  pastry  crusts  and  when  cool,  cut  in 
squares.  Mrs.  George  Garland 

APPLE  PIE 

Line  deep  plate  with  plain  paste,  three  cups  of  sour  apples 
cut  in  small  pieces,  three-quarters  cup  of  sugar;  dot  with  small 
pieces  of  butter  and  a  shade  of  salt,  a  small  spoonful  of  cinnamon. 
Wet  edges  with  cold  water  and  press  down  well  so  juice  may  not 
escape.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Mrs.  S.  P.  Pike 

MINCE  MEAT  TOMATO 
1  pk.  green  tomatoes,  put  through  34  lb.  butter  in 
meat  chopper  with  1  qt.  apples  34  cup  suet 
134  lbs.  or  more  if  you  like  raisins  1  cup  cider  vinegar 
3  lbs.  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves, 

34  lb.  citron  allspice,  cinnamon  and 

34  lb.  candied  lemon  peel  nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  salt 


112 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Put  tomatoes  through  meat  chopper  and  drain.  Cover  with 
cold  water  and  simmer  thirty  minutes,  then  drain  again.  Now 
add  apples,  raisins,  etc.  When  all  together,  cook  slowly  for  three 
hours.  More  apples  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Matthews 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE 

Bake  crust  first,  prick  all  over  with  fork  and  put  in  this 
filling:  one  pint  thin  cream,  or  rich  milk,  four  oz.  of  chocolate  dis¬ 
solved  in  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Thicken  with  one-half  table¬ 
spoon  of  cornstarch,  stirring  often.  Add  one  cup  sugar,  bit  of 
salt.  When  done,  remove  from  stove,  add  a  teaspoon  vanilla  and 
cool.  Whip  one  cup  of  thick  cream  and  add  to  filling.  This  makes 
a  large  pie  and  is  quite  rich.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Clancy 


PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 


TO  A  MACKINTOSH  APPLE 
Delectable,  delicious  thou  — 

A  blossom  once  upon  a  bough! 

Such  rosy  loveliness  I  deem 
Reflected  glory  of  a  dream. 

And  baked,  with  cream  and  sugar  sweet, 

A  chicken’s  wing,  and  bread  of  wheat, 

No  epicure  could  ask  for  more, 

Devouring  all  but  stem  and  core. 

Delectable,  delicious  thou  — 

A  blossom  once  upon  a  bough! 

Gertrude  Louise  Small 

(By  courtesy  of  New  York  Sun) 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

Make  a  rich  pie  crust,  cut  in  squares,  core  and  fill  cavity  with 
sugar,  putting  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  a  few  grains  of  cinnamon 
on  top;  then  wet  dough  and  fold  up  over  the  apples.  Put  in  a 
baking  pan  and  bake  until  thoroughly  done,  in  a  slow  oven. 

Sauce 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  cream 

1  cup  sugar  Small  piece  butter 

Vanilla 

Beat  all  together  with  egg-beater.  Mrs.  W.  T.  Ellis 

BAKED  STUFFED  APPLES 
Core  one-half  dozen  apples,  remove  part  of  centers,  make  a 
filling  of  one-half  cup  each  of  chopped  dates  and  English  walnuts. 
Mix  with  removed  pulp  of  apples,  stuff  apples  and  bake.  Serve 
with  sweetened  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Emelia  Frost 

APPLE  SNOW 

Cut  sponge  cake  in  slices  and  lay  on  a  dish.  Make  a  custard 
of  one  pint  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Sweeten  to  taste,  pour  cus¬ 
tard  while  hot  over  sponge  cake.  Cook  one  pound  apples,  when 
cold  beat  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar, 
pile  on  top  of  custard.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Robinson 

APPELINE  PUDDING 

Soak  two  cups  coarse  bread  crumbs  in  three  cups  cold  water, 
while  you  make  two  cups  sour  apple  sauce,  add  one  and  one-half 


114 


The  Home-Maker' s  Cookbook 


cups  sugar,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  raisins,  flavor 
with  lemon  and  nutmeg,  dot  with  butter,  bake  one  hour. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream,  hard  or  plain  sauce. 

Mrs.  Marion  A.  Miller 

STEAMED  APPLE  PUDDING 
2  cups  flour  3  or  4  apples  cut  in  small 

Salt  pieces 

1  tablespoon  butter  2}/%  level  teaspoons  baking  pow¬ 

der 

1  cup  milk 

Steam  one  hour  and  twenty  minutes. 

Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  13^  cups  boiling  water 

1  tablespoon  flour  dissolved  in  Butter 

little  cold  water 

Cook  until  it  thickens,  add  piece  of  butter  and  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Lucy  L.  Watson 

ENGLISH  PUDDING 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  teaspoon  clove  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

x/l  cup  melted  butter  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

3^  cups  flour 

Steam  three  hours,  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

1  egg  2,  cups  confectionery  sugar 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  3  tablespoons  milk 

1  teaspoon  lemon 

Mix  ingredients  as  they  are  named.  Mrs.  H.  Mulno 

PINEAPPLE  AND  RICE  DESSERT 
2  cups  milk  1  cup  rice 

Little  Salt 

Cook  until  well  done,  add  milk  or  water  as  needed.  Drain 
two  cups  grated  pineapple  and  stir  into  rice  when  cool.  Before 
serving  add  one  bottle  of  whipped  cream,  add  a  maraschino 
cherry.  Mrs.  W.  D.  Coombes 

PEACH  PUDDING 

Sift  together  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-quarter  cup 
sugar,  two  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Work  in  one-half  cup 
butter  with  the  tips  of  fingers,  mix  to  a  stiff  dough  with  the  yolk 


The  Home-Makers  Cookbook 


115 


of  one  egg  beaten  in  a  little  milk.  Roll  out  and  line  a  deep  baking 
dish  with  a  portion  of  the  dough.  Brush  the  inside  with  white  of 
egg,  dredge  with  a  little  flour  and  fill  with  peaches  which  have 
been  peeled  and  cut  in  halves.  Sweeten  the  fruit  to  taste,  sprinkle 
with  one  tablespoon  of  flour  then  cut  the  dough  which  has  been 
left  into  strips  and  place  them  lattice-fashion  over  the  top. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Emma  Anderson,  East  Lynn 

BANANA  PUDDING 
(With  Custard  Sauce) 

1  pint  milk  (scalded)  2  eggs,  little  salt 

6  tablespoons  sugar 

Beat  and  add  to  hot  milk,  stir  until  it  thickens.  When  cold 
add  vanilla,  pour  over  sliced  bananas.  Mrs.  Karl  Greene 

DATE  AND  RICE  PUDDING 
1  quart  milk  2  tablespoons  rice 

1  package  dates  washed,  stoned  x/l  cup  sugar,  salt 
and  cut  fine 

Stir  all  together. 

Put  in  oven  and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours.  Stir  once  or  twice, 
while  baking.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  that  has  been  flavored 
with  vanilla  and  sweetened  a  little.  Grace  C.  Foss 

MA’S  FRUIT  PUFFS 

Butter  thoroughly  as  many  cups  as  needed.  Mix  two  cups 
Reliable  flour  and  water  to  a  thin  batter,  put  a  spoonful  in  bottom 
of  cup,  then  a  generous  spoonful  of  fruit,  fresh  or  preserved, 
(strawberries,  blueberries,  rhubarb,  etc.),  then  fill  cup  two-thirds 
full  of  batter.  Steam  twenty  minutes  without  raising  cover.  This 
makes  enough  for  five  cups.  Serve  with  any  desired  sauce  or  hard 
sauce.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Holt 

BREAD  PUDDING 

Soak  one  slice  of  bread  in  one  pint  of  milk.  Break  one  egg 
into  bowl,  add  pinch  of  salt,  a  generous  half  cup  of  sugar,  little 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon;  fill  bowl  with  milk  and  bread,  add  few 
raisins  and  bake.  Etta  L.  Smith 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

1  cup  flour  ^  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  Pinch  of  salt 


116 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Melt  one-quarter  cup  of  butter,  add  to  it  one  egg,  fill  the  cup 
with  milk,  add  to  the  flour  and  sugar,  beat  until  light. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Roper 


FRUIT  DESSERT 
1  pint  of  blueberries,  hot 

Make  a  biscuit  dough  and  drop  into  berries,  cook  fifteen 
minutes. 

Other  fruits  could  be  used.  Mrs.  G.  E.  Bennett 


THANKSGIVING  PUDDING 
Soak  eleven  crackers  in  two  quarts  of  milk  over  night;  in  the 
morning  mash  all  fine.  Add  one  cup  molasses,  three  tablespoons 
sugar,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  piece  butter  size  of  egg,  one  cup 
raisins,  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  salt.  Bake  in  large  round 
pudding  dish,  four  or  five  hours.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  French 


ENGLISH  SUET  PUDDING 


%  cup  molasses 
y2  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  spices 
1  egg 

Steam  3J4  hours. 
Serve  with  sauce. 


J/2  cup  chopped  suet 
1  cup  chopped  raisins 
y  cup  milk 
y2  teaspoon  soda 
2  cups  flour 


Mrs.  H.  A.  Page 


LEMON  WHIP 

Whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  separately  and  lightly 
tossed  together,  juice  of  four  lemons  squeezed  into  one  pint  water 
in  which  one  cup  of  sugar  has  been  dissolved,  and  a  little  ice. 

Eggs  are  added  last  of  all,  mix  well  and  chill. 

Mrs.  Robsky,  Janesville,  Wis. 

PINEAPPLE  SPONGE 

y2  envelope  gelatine  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

y2  cup  sugar  FeW  grains  of  salt 

%  cup  of  grated  pineapple  canned  x/2  cup  heavy  cream 
y  cup  of  cold  water  Whites  of  3  eggs 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  and  add  grated  rind,  lemon  juice, 
sugar,  and  salt.  Cook  in  double  boiler  stirring  constantly  until 
mixture  thickens.  Remove  from  stove,  add  gelatine  (which  has 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


117 


been  soaked  in  cold  water  five  minutes)  and  pineapple;  when  mix¬ 
ture  begins  to  thicken,  add  cream  beaten  until  stiff  and  whites  of 
eggs.  Turn  into  mould,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  then  chill. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  B.  Loomer,  Ballardvale 

FULLER  PUDDING 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  milk 

K  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

Yv  teaspoon  ground  clove,  allspice  and  cinnamon 
Flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  cake.  Steam  two  and  one- 
half  to  three  hours. 

Sauce 

2  teaspoons  butter  4  teaspoons  sugar 

2  eggs  Flavor  with  lemon 

Beat  until  thick.  Dorothy  P.  Roper 

CARAMEL  PUDDING 
Y  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  flour 

cups  milk  1  cup  nuts 

Caramel  one-third  cup  sugar,  scald  milk;  add  flour  and  sugar, 
cook  in  double  boiler.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  Green,  Kansas 


CHOCOLATE  RICE  PUDDING 
2  tablespoons  cocoa  or  1  quart  milk 

2  squares  chocolate  Yi  cup  rice 

1  cup  sugar 

Cook  about  one  hour  or  little  longer,  serve  hot  or  cold. 

Harriet  Palmer  Osgood 


MACAROON  PUDDING 

One  and  one-half  dozen  macaroons  broken  in  pieces.  Make  a 
boiled  custard  of  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  scant  cup  of  sugar,  pinch 
of  salt  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Pour  over  the  broken  macaroons. 
Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  five  teaspoons  of 
powdered  sugar;  add  a  little  vanilla  to  flavor  slightly.  Brown  the 
meringue;  eat  cold.  M.  E.  Harris 


1  lb.  flour 
1  lb.  suet 
1  lb.  currants 
1  lb.  raisins 


VEGETABLE  INDIAN  PUDDING 
6  oz.  mixed  peel 
6  oz.  molasses 
12  oz.  sugar 
Yl  a  nutmeg 


118 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


1  lb.  potatoes  and  1  lb.  carrots  boiled  and  mashed  very  finely. 
No  moistening  is  required.  Mix  well  with  the  hands,  into  a  stiff 
paste.  Put  into  buttered  basin  and  steam  six  or  seven  hours. 

E.  Lyddon 


CRANBERRY  PUDDING 


1  cup  sugar 
1  cup  milk 
1J4  cups  cranberries 
Salt 

Steam  three  hours. 


2  eggs 

3  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  tablespoons  butter 
Mrs.  J.  K.  Chandler 


PINEAPPLE  WHIP 

1  can  shredded  pineapple  JdS  lb.  marshmallow 

K  pint  cream 

Drain  juice  from  pineapple  thoroughly.  Cut  up  marshmal¬ 
lows  and  put  them  to  soak  in  the  juice  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  the  rest  of  the  pineapple  and  the  whipped  cream  to  the  marsh¬ 
mallows.  Add  sugar  if  necessary.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  until 
time  to  serve.  Mrs.  T.  Frank  Lyons 


COFFEE  CUSTARD 

2  tablespoons  coffee  1  pint  milk 

Place  in  double  boiler  and  bring  to  scalding  point  (do  not 
boil),  strain  and  add  to  three  eggs  beaten  lightly,  one-half  cup 
sugar  and  little  salt.  Bake.  Very  nice  served  with  whipped 
cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Frank  W.  Sears,  Brockton 

PENUCHI  PUDDING 

2  cups  brown  sugar  C/2  cups  boiling  water 

2  rounding  tablespoons  cornstarch,  thicken 
Flavor  with  vanilla,  add  nut  meats.  Serve  with  whip  cream. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  Norris 


RASPBERRY  WHIP 

2  small  boxes  of  berries  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  cup  of  heavy  cream  3d?  CUP  sugar 

Mash  half  of  the  berries,  add  lemon  juice,  and  sugar,  stir  in 
the  stiffly  beaten  cream.  Pile  in  sherbet  glasses,  garnish  with  the 
whole  berries,  and  serve  cold.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Buck 

HIGH  CHURCH  PUDDING 

1  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  suet  2  tablespoons  marmalade, 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  milk 

Steam  three  hours.  Mrs.  B.  S.  Green 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


119 


PRUNE  PUDDING 
34  lb.  prunes  stewed  until  soft 

34  cup  sugar  added  before  removing  from  fire,  cook  until  thick. 

234  tablespoons  cornstarch  34  cup  cold  water 

Add  prune  juice  and  water  to  make  1%  cups  in  all.  Add 
prunes  and  cook  until  thick,  season  with  lemon  or  few  grains  of 
cinnamon. 

Serve  plain  or  with  cream.  Alice  E.  Ramsay 

PRUNE  AMBUSH 

Soak  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  pulverized  gelatine  in  a  little 
cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  a  cup  of  boiling  hot  prune 
juice,  previously  sweetened.  Let  this  cool,  but  do  not  let  it  harden 
much.  Put  layer  of  stoned  prunes  in  dish,  then  pour  in  part  of 
jelly,  then  another  layer  of  prunes,  then  rest  of  jelly. 

Serve  with  soft  boiled  custard  made  with  one  cup  of  milk, 
yolk  of  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  flour.  Sugar  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Ruth  W.  Cameron 

RAISIN  PUFFS 

1  tablespoon  butter  3^  cup  raisins  chopped  fine 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Fill  cups  one-half  full,  steam  one-half  hour.  To  be  eaten  with 
sauce.  Mrs.  J.  A.  Craig,  Westmoreland,  N.  H. 

CARROT  PUDDING 

134  cups  of  flour  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  suet  1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  potatoes,  grated  1  cup  carrots,  grated 

1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  mix  well. 

Steam  three  hours.  Mrs.  Manter  E.  Garland 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE 
234  cups  sifted  flour  3  heaping  teaspoons  of  yeast 

Scant  34  teaspoon  salt  powder 

Butter  size  of  egg 

All  thoroughly  worked  into  the  dry  flour.  Add  milk  slowly 
to  make  the  consistency  of  pie  crust,  or  just  enough  to  take  up  the 
dry  flour.  Divide  in  halves,  roll  out  about  one-half  inch  thick  and 
place  in  buttered  Washington  pie  tin,  then  spread  with  melted 
butter,  being  careful  to  cover  the  edges  of  crust  thoroughly.  Roll 


120 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


out  other  half  and  place  on  top  of  first  part.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
about  twenty  minutes.  Don’t  bake  too  brown  as  it  makes  it  brittle. 
When  done,  separate  edges  and  cake  will  fall  apart,  cover  under 
crust  with  sweetened  strawberries,  lay  on  top  crust,  also  cover  with 
berries  and  sugar.  Mrs.  A.  C.  Tingley 

KNICKERBOCKER  PUDDING 
Boil  one  cupful  of  rice  in  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  milk  until 
the  milk  is  entirely  absorbed;  stir  occasionally.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  and  while  hot  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  the  grated  rind  of 
one  lemon,  three  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  a  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Mix  well  together,  put  in  a  well-buttered  dish 
(earthen),  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Shortly  before  using,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  gradually  nine  tablespoons  of 
powdered  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Pour  the  whole  over  the 
pudding,  and  set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  till  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  G.  F.  Camp 

QUEEN’S  PUDDING 

One  pint  of  stale  bread,  crumbed  finely.  One  quart  milk; 
soak  bread  in  milk,  in  three-pint  buttered  dish  until  quite  soft. 

4  egg  yolks  34  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  butter  34  grated  nutmeg 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  these  together  and  stir  into  bread  and  milk.  Bake  one 
hour.  Spread  a  layer  of  raspberry  or  grape  jam  over  the  top. 

4  egg  whites  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoon  lemon 

Beat  stiff  and  pile  it  on  the  jam.  Brown  in  oven  and  serve 
slightly  warm.  Mrs.  Lydia  Pillsbury 

FIG  AND  NUT  PUDDING 
1  egg  1  cup  shopped  suet 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  34  cups  bread  flour  1  teaspoon  soda  in  flour 

%  cup  chopped  meats,  walnut  34  teaspoon  salt 

34  lb.  chopped  figs 
Steam  three  hours. 

Sauce 

1  egg  1  even  teaspoon  butter 

34  cup  sugar  ;  cream  with  egg  Dash  of  salt 

Whip  34  P^t  of  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Blanche  King 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


121 


FRUIT  BAVARIAN  CREAM 

Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Press 
one  pint  of  fresh  fruit  (or  canned  fruit)  through  a  sieve.  Pour  one- 
quarter  cup  boiling  water  on  gelatine,  and  strain  it  into  fruit. 
When  the  jelly  begins  to  set,  fold  in  one  pint  of  whipped  cream, 
stirring  until  well  mixed;  strawberries,  raspberries  and  peaches 
are  the  fruits  generally  used  for  this  recipe. 

A  porcelain  mould  is  used  for  fruit  mixtures  as  tin  sometimes 
dissolves  the  cream.  Mrs.  T.  Frank  Lyons 

FRYING  PAN  CAKE 

Put  in  a  heavy  frying-pan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  small 
egg,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  melt,  let  boil  up  once. 
Arrange  sliced  pineapples  to  cover  pan  filling  in  all  little  crevices; 
Next  put  a  maraschino  cherry  in  hole  of  each  slice,  then  make  a 
sponge-cake  batter  as  follows : 

2  well  beaten  eggs  1)4  cups  flour 

)4  cup  hot  water  1)4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Salt  1  cup  sugar,  beat 

)4  teaspoon  vanilla 

Pour  this  on  the  above  and  bake  twenty -five  minutes.  When 
done  turn  out  on  large  plate,  cut  in  squares;  serve  when  cold  with 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Lilly  Douglas 

POMPADOUR  PUDDING 

Scald  one  quart  milk,  add  two  large  tablespoons  of  cornstarch 
moistened  in  little  cold  milk,  pour  into  scalded  milk  and  stir  until 
it  thickens,  then  add  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three-quarters  cup  of 
sugar  and  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  stir  with  milk,  when  thickened 
remove  from  boiler  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  into  dish  and 
frost  while  still  hot,  with  whites  of  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  cocoa.  Serve  cold.  Mrs.  Walter  P.  Fuller 

SNOW  PUDDING 

Mix  two  tablespoons  cornstarch  with  four  tablespoons  water, 
add  one  cup  boiling  water,  one-half  cup  sugar,  juice  of  half  a 
lemon;  cook  until  it  thickens,  pour  slowly  over  well  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs;  turn  into  a  mould,  serve  with  custard  made  of 
1  cup  milk  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch  )4  cup  sugar 

Flavor  with  lemon  juice.  Eleanor  Glidden 


m 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


MARSHMALLOW  CREAM  DESSERT 
3^  lb.  marshmallows  3^2  lb-  walnuts 

3/2  pint  whipped  cream 

Quarter  marshmallows  and  nuts,  stir  all  together,  add  vanilla. 
Place  in  refrigerator  for  several  hours. 

Mrs.  Johnson  B.  Campbell,  Washington,  D.  C. 

STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 
1  egg  3^2  cup  sugar 

3/2  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  square  chocolate,  melted  Steam  1  hour 

Chocolate  Frosting 

One  square  chocolate  melted,  add  one  tablespoon  butter  and 
powdered  sugar  to  make  thick  enough. 

Mrs.  Belle  McCausland 

DATE  AND  NUT  PUDDING 
1  cup  chopped  nuts  3^  CUP  sugar 

1  cup  chopped  dates  ^3  cup  flour 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  foamy  sauce. 

Steam  pudding  in  small  cups.  G.  E.  Bailey 

CHOCOLATE  COCOANUT  PUDDING 
Two  cups  bread  crumbs,  soaked  one  hour  in  two  cups  milk. 
One  egg  and  one  yolk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter, 
one  square  melted  chocolate,  two  tablespoons  cream,  two  table¬ 
spoons  cocoanut.  Cook  in  double  boiler  one  hour. 

Sauce 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  cream  together 
and  add  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Mrs.  H.  P.  Dinsmore 


PORK  PUDDING 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  pork 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  raisins 

3  cups  flour  J-2  teaspoon  saleratus 

Spices  of  all  kinds 

Steam  3  hours.  Serve  with  a  sweet  sauce. 

Mrs.  Parker  Foster 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


123 


SHREDDED  WHEAT  PUDDING 
2  shredded  wheat  biscuits  3  eggs 

3^2  cup  molasses  2  tablespoons  sugar 

A  little  cinnamon  and  salt 

Put  into  medium-sized  pudding  dish,  fill  dish  with  milk,  and 
bake.  Mrs.  Josephine  Dows  Harmon 

TAPIOCA  INDIAN  PUDDING 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  molasses 

2  tablespoons  pearl  tapioca  2  tablespoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons  Indian  meal  1  quart  milk 

Salt,  ginger  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour,  or  more. 

Gertrude  Briggs  Richardson 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM 

Dissolve  one  rounded  tablespoon  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold 
water  and  stir  over  fire  until  dissolved.  Add  one-half  cup  cold 
water  to  hot  gelatine  and  cool  a  little.  Separate  whites  of  four 
eggs,  beat  with  pinch  of  salt,  until  very  light  and  stiff,  then  pour 
gelatine  into  whites  very  slowly,  beating  all  the  time.  Sprinkle 
in  one  cup  sugar  and  keep  beating,  add  one  teaspoon  almond  ex¬ 
tract  and  beat  again,  tint  one-third  pink,  one-third  green,  sprinkle 
chopped  nuts  between  layers.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or 
sauce.  Hazel  K.  Smith 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 
1  large  dessert  spoon  cocoa  cup  sugar 

1  large  tablespoon  cornstarch  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Pour  one  cup  boiling  water  over  the  cocoa,  add  sugar  and 
butter,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  cornstarch  dissolved  in  one 
cup  cold  water.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  add  vanilla.  Serve  with 
rich  milk  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Newhall,  Brighton 

FIG  PUDDING 

V2  lb.  figs  2  eggs 

J/2  lb.  bread  crumbs  Nutmeg  to  taste 

34  lb.  suet  Milk 

6  oz.  brown  sugar 

Chop  suet  and  figs  very  fine,  add  flour,  bread  crumbs,  sugar, 
nutmeg,  and  lastly  eggs,  and  sufficient  milk  to  mix  well. 

Steam  three  hours.  Mrs.  T.  W.  Davies 


124 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


GRAPE-NUT  PUDDING 

1  coffee  cup  grape-nuts 

1  quart  milk  scalded  and  pour  over  grape-nuts  and  allow  to  cool. 

Stir  in  four  tablespoons  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  separately, 
whites  added  last,  little  salt.  Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Annie  L.  Ellis 

ORANGE  PUDDING 

Four  good  sized  oranges,  peel,  seed  and  cut  in  small  pieces, 
remove  as  much  of  white  skin  as  possible,  add  one  cup  sugar,  let 
stand.  Into  one  cup  of  hot  milk  stir  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch 
mixed  with  a  little  water  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  When  cooked 
then  cool  and  mix  with  the  oranges.  Make  a  frosting  of  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  spread  over  the  pud¬ 
ding  and  brown  in  hot  oven.  Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  C.  Holla  wood 


COOKIES 


BROWN  SUGAR  COOKIES 


134  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  currants 

1  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  sweet  milk 

2  eggs  Small  teaspoon  soda 

Cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Dinsmore 


BROWNIES  • 

1  cup  sugar  j  creamed  2  eggs 

34  cup  butter  j  1  cup  walnut  meats 

2  heaping  teaspoons  powdered  cocoa  24  cup  pastry  flour 
melted  with  34  teaspoon  vanilla  Pinch  of  salt 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  a  shallow  pan  one-half  hour.  Cut 
in  squares  when  cool,  but  before  it  hardens. 

Mrs.  N.  W.  Davis,  Ormond,  Fla. 


BRAN  COOKIES 
1  cup  flour  1  egg 

1  cup  prepared  bran  (Kellog’s  or  1  tablespoon  shortening 
Pillsbury’s)  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

24  cup  sugar  34  teaspoon  salt 

24  cup  milk  34  teaspoon  mapleine  flavor 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar;  add  milk  and  egg  well  beaten; 
then  the  dry  ingredients.  Stir  well  together.  Drop  from  a  spoon 
on  well  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Kelley 


LEMON  COOKIES 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

34  cup  butter  or  lard  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

24  cup  milk  Flour  to  roll 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  F.  I.  Carter 

SCOTTISH  FANCIES 

1  egg  1  cup  rolled  oats 

34  cup  sugar  34  teaspoon  salt 

%  tablespoon  melted  butter  34  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  all  together  and  drop  in  small  teaspoon  on  greased  pan. 
Watch  carefully,  as  they  will  brown  very  easily. 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Trull 


126 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


VANILLA  WAFERS 
1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

%  cup  butter  or  shortening  2  cups  flour,  or  enough  to  roll 

4  tablespoons  milk  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

1  tablespoon  vanilla  powder 

Roll  very  thin,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cut  out  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  T.  G.  Langdale 

COFFEE  SNAPS 

y2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
y2  CUP  strong  coffee 
Flour 

d  teaspoon  salt 

flour  enough  to  roll  thin.  Bake  in  a  quick 
Mrs.  T.  G.  Langdale 

FARMER’S  COOKIES 

2  cups  rolled  oats  1  scant  level  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  pastry  flour  %  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed 

Pinch  of  salt  1  cup  sugar 

Cream  together  and  add  one-third  cup  sweet  milk.  Roll 
thin,  cut  into  cookies  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  Alice  S.  King 


y2  CUP  molasses 
y  cup  sugar 
y2  CUP  shortening 

Beat  well.  Use 
oven. 


%  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  hot  water 
2}4  cups  flour 
y2  teaspoon  salt 


HERMITS 

%  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
}/i  teaspoon  clove 
}/i  teaspoon  nutmeg 
y2  cup  chopped  raisins 
y2  cup  nut  meats  cut  fine 


Roll  one-fourth  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  cookie  cutter.  Bake 
a  moderate  oven  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Miss  L.  E.  Rogers 


MOLASSES  COOKIES  (SOFT) 

%  cup  molasses  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

y2  cup  sugar  y2  teaspoon  ginger 

y2  cup  lard  y2  cup  cold  water 

y2  teaspoon  salt  \x/2  teaspoons  soda 

Flour  to  roll  out.  Be  careful  not  to  use  too  much  flour  orthey 
will  be  hard.  .  Miss  Blanche  King 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


127 


2  eggs 


cup  brown  sugar 
teaspoon  vanilla 


SUGAR  COOKIES 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sweet  milk  (scant)  Pinch  of  salt 

^  eggs  Nutmeg  and  vanilla 

Mrs.  James  O’Connell 

MARTHA  ANN 

teaspoon  salt 
J/2  CUP  pastry  flour 
H  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Bake  in  shallow  pan  and  cut  in  squares  when  done. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Miller 
Mrs.  J.  E.  Foster 

MOLASSES  COOKIES 

1  cup  molasses  2  teaspoons  soda 

}/2  cup  butter  or  any  good  2  teaspoons  ginger 

shortening  (fill  cup  with  boiling  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
water)  teaspoon  allspice 

3^  cups  flour 

Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  into  greased  tins.  Press  a  raisin  firmly 
in  the  top  to  make  it  raise  uniformly. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  A.  Darby 

DATE  BARS 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  flour  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  24  cup  chopped  nuts 

24  cup  chopped  dates 

Mix,  spread  very  thin  in  buttered  pans.  Bake  slowly;  cut 
while  hot  and  roll  in  confectioners’  sugar. 

Mrs.  John  E.  Foster 
Mrs.  Grace  F.  Johnson 

MOLASSES  GINGER  COOKIES 

2  cups  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

1  teaspoon  ginger  Pinch  of  salt 

Warm  molasses;  melt  and  add  shortening  and  ginger.  Dis¬ 
solve  soda  in  the  cold  water.  Add  to  the  above  mixture  enough 
flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Miss  McCauseland 


128 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


COCOANUT  CAKES 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  stiff;  add  three-quarters 
of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Stir  in  enough  cocoanut  and  corn  flakes  to  hold 
mixture  together.  Drop  in  a  buttered  tin  and  bake. 

Mrs.  E.  L.  Smith 


FILLED  COOKIES 

1  egg 

34  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 
Vanilla 

Filling 

One  cup  raisins  put  through  food  chopper,  one  cup  sugar, 
34  cup  hot  water,  two  teaspoons  flour.  Cook  until  thick.  When 
cool  add  a  little  vanilla.  Caroline  E.  Richardson 


1  cup  sugar 
34  cup  shortening 
3  cups  flour 
1  teaspoon  soda 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 


%  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

J/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 
4  tablespoons  milk 
24  teaspoon  soda 


3^  teaspoon  salt 
34  teaspoon  clove 
2  cups  flour 
2  cups  oatmeal 
1  cup  raisins 
34  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Mrs.  Albert  J.  Trull 


MARGUERITES 

Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  small  cup  powdered  sugar, 
one  large  cup  chopped  walnuts.  Put  on  butter  thin  crackers  and 
brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  H.  G.  Blood 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 
34  teaspoon  salt 
2  cups  dry  oatmeal 
2  cups  sifted  flour 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

M.  McAleer 

CORN  FLAKE  MACAROONS 
Mix  one  cup  corn  flakes  with  one-half  cup  sugar;  add  one- 
half  cup  broken  nut  meats.  Stir  lightly  into  beaten  white  of  egg. 
Drop  from  teaspoon  on  buttered  pan  or  paper  and  bake. 

Miss  M.  Howe,  Danvers 


1  cup  sugar 
34  cup  shortening 

1  tablespoon  milk 

2  eggs  well  beaten 
1  teaspoon  soda 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


129 


CREAM  CAKES 

Three-quarters  pint  of  water,  three-quarters  cup  butter. 
Take  your  spider  and  put  in  the  water  and  butter.  When  boiling, 
add  two  cups  sifted  flour.  Stir  well,  then  cool  and  add  six  eggs. 
Beat  until  smooth.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  tins  that  have  been 
heated  and  buttered  before  dropping  in  the  cakes.  This  will  make 
sixteen  cakes. 

Filling 

1  pint  milk  boiled  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  flour 

Beat  egg,  flour  and  sugar  and  add  to  milk. 

Miss  M.  Ella  Marshall 

JUMBLES 

3  cups  sugar  Nutmeg 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

4  eggs  small  quantity  of  milk 

Flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Roll  them  in  sugar. 

Mrs.  Azro  M.  Dows,  Lowell 

COFFEE  COOKIES 

One-half  cup  each  of  molasses,  sugar  and  strong  coffee,  one- 
fourth  cup  melted  lard  or  butter,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
coffee,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  chopped  raisins;  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  quite  thick. 

Mrs.  T.  Frank  Lyons 


HERMITS 

1  teaspoon  cassia 
1  teaspoon  mace 
1  teaspoon  soda 
1  cup  stoned  raisins  chopped 
fine 

Mix  very  hard  with  sufficient  flour  to  roll  thin. 

Miss  Choate,  Salem  Mack  School 


1  cup  butter 
l}/2-  cups  sugar 
3  eggs  well  beaten 
1  teaspoon  clove 


BLACK  WALNUT  WAFERS 

y2  cup  white  sugar  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

J/2  cup  brown  sugar  3^  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs  beaten  1  cup  black  walnuts  chopped 

4  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Grease  tins  and  drop  batter  by  spoonsful.  Wafers  are  very 
thin.  Mrs.  Edward  Hatch,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


130 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


SPICE  COOKIES 


Yi  cup  of  shortening 
1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  molasses 

2  teaspoons  soda 


1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 


4  cups  flour 

Mix  the  sugar,  molasses,  spices  and  shortening.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Roll  thin  and  bake 
in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  E.  L.  Smith 


DOUGHNUTS 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Butter  size  of  walnut,  beaten  to  a  Y  cup  sweet  milk 

cream  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  Flour 

1  cup  sugar  Nutmeg  if  desired 

Mrs.  Calvin  Coolidge  (Personally  contributed) 


DOUGHNUTS 

1  egg  %  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  Y  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  butter  Yi  teaspoon  ginger  and  cin- 

Dash  of  salt  namon  together 

4  cups  pastry  flour  Mrs.  A.  M.  Shedd 

DOUGHNUTS 

2  eggs  Yz  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  Y  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  of  sweet  or  sour  milk  Y  teaspoon  ginger 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  Yi  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Flour  enough  to  roll. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Gardner,  Billerica 


DOUGHNUTS 

2  eggs  4  cups  bread  flour 

1  cup  sugar  5  level  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  der 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  salt 

Y  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Mix  eggs,  sugar,  salt  and  nutmeg.  Sift  baking  powder  in 
flour.  Add  one  cup  flour  and  one-fourth  cup  milk  alternately  until 
all  is  used,  beating  well.  Add  butter  last.  Cool  dough  before 
frying,  as  it  is  very  soft  to  handle  and  no  more  flour  is  to  be  added. 

Miss  Austin 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


131 


DOUGHNUTS 

3  cups  sifted  flour  1  cup  sour  cream 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  y2  grated  nutmeg 

Roll  out  the  dough,  cut  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

Mrs.  Annis  D.  Phelps 


DOUGHNUTS 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  tablespoon  butter  3d2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  milk  5)4  cups  flour  into  which  sift 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  full  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Roll  out  one-quarter  inch  thick,  cut  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until 
golden  brown.  Mrs.  Luella  Tapley,  Danvers,  Mass. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS 

3/2  yeast  cake 


3  eggs 

J/2  cup  sugar 
y  cup  lard 
1  pint  milk 

In  morning  roll  out  in  twists 
in  hot  fat.  Use  bread  flour, 
for  supper. 


dissolved  in 

water 

Flour  to  make  stiff 
Raise  over  night 
raise  again  until  light  and  fry 
These  can  be  set  in  morning  to  fry 
Mrs.  Claggett 


TWISTED  DOUGHNUTS 

%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  3d*  teaspoon  ginger 

2  teaspoons  melted  lard  3dz  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Let  mixture  stand  two  hours,  then  twist  and  fry. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Kennedy 


DELICIOUS  GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  sugar  1  even  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  molasses  1  dessert  spoon  cinnamon 

4  tablespoons  melted  butter  1  teaspoon  mixed  spices 

Put  into  mixing  bowl,  stir  and  rub  well  together;  then  add  one 
beaten  egg,  one  cup  sour  milk,  real  sour,  then  sift  one  even  tea¬ 
spoon  soda  with  two  cups  flour.  Sift  into  other  mixture  and  beat 
two  minutes;  then  turn  into  a  nine-inch  square  tin  one  and  one- 
half  inches  deep,  sprinkle  sugar  over  top  and  bake  about  forty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Gale 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Mason 


132 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


CHOCOLATE  GINGERBREAD 


Y  cup  shortening 

Y  cup  sugar 

Yi  cup  molasses 

1  cup  sour  milk 

2  cups  flour 

2  ounces  chocolate 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar 
and  soda  in  sour  milk.  Add  drj 
minutes  in  slow  oven. 


Yi  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  ginger 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Y  teaspoon  cloves 
1  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
,  add  molasses,  melted  chocolate 
r  ingredients  and  bake  forty-five 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Kelley 


SUGAR  GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  sugar,  large  2  cups  flour 

K  cup  butter,  scant  Yi  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Yi  cup  milk  Vanilla 

Pinch  of  ginger 

Bake  in  shallow  tins  as  thin  as  can  be  spread;  put  chopped  nuts 
and  sugar  over  top  before  baking.  Cut  in  squares  before  taking 
from  pan.  Miss  A.  J.  Whittredge 


CAMP  GINGERBREAD 

1  egg  y2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 

Y  cup  molasses  molasses 

Y  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  each,  nuts  and  raisins 

Y  cup  butter,  melted  chopped 

Y  cup  sour  milk  2  scant  cups  flour 

Salt,  cinnamon,  clove  and  nutmeg  to  taste 

Mrs.  Ann  E.  Baker,  Billerica 


SOFT  GINGERBREAD 

Yi  cup  sugar  Yi  cup  molasses 

Y2  cup  lard  or  butter  Yl  teaspoon  ginger 

1  egg  beaten  to  a  cream  1  teaspoon  soda 

13^2  cups  flour 

After  mixing  all  together,  add  one-half  cup  boiling  water. 

Ethel  M.  Fairgrieve 
Mrs.  Irving  R.  Shaw 

GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  hot  water  1  tablespoon  shortening 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  egg  Flour 

Mix  in  order  given.  Mrs.  Edith  M.  Foster 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


133 


GINGER  COOKIES 

4  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  ginger  1  tablespoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  sugar 

Sift  all  these  ingredients  together  twice;  then  rub  in  one  cup 
lard  or  other  shortening;  add  two  cups  molasses  and  one  cup  sour 
milk.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  enough  flour  to  roll. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Tapley,  Danvers 

GINGERBREAD  (BEST  EVER) 

3^  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

cup  sugar  \x/2  cups  flour 

1  egg  teaspoon  each,  ginger  and 

}/2  cup  sour  milk  cinnamon 

cup  butter 

If  sweet  milk  is  used,  add  one  teaspoon  vinegar. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Howland,  Boston 

DROP  CAKES 

2  eggs  K  cup  nuts 

1J/2  cups  brown  sugar  3^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  rich  sour  cream  3^2  cup  currants  and  raisins 

1  level  teaspoon  soda  3^  teaspoon  each  clove,  nut¬ 

meg  and  allspice 
Flour  to  stiffen 
Drop  from  spoon  two  inches  apart. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Cameron 


PICKLES 


“  I  love  the  smell  o’  apples  when  they’re  getting  streaky-red 

And  I  love  the  smell  that  crinkles  from  an  old-time  posy -bed; 
The  earthy  spice  o’  new-plowed  fields  is  e’en  a’most  sublime, 

But  there  ain’t  no  smell  that  ekels  the  smell  o’  pickling  time.” 

PICKLED  CUCUMBERS 
1  gal.  vinegar  1  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  alum  3^2  CUP  grated  horseradish 

1  cup  salt  1  heaping  teaspoon  mustard 

teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

Dissolve  dry  ingredients  in  vinegar,  not  necessary  to  boil. 
Take  small  cucumbers,  few  or  many,  if  possible  leaving  little  pieces 
of  stem  on  each,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  until  cold, 
then  carefully  wipe  dry  and  put  into  the  liquid  mixture. 

Lizzie  E.  Rogers 

CUCUMBER  RELISH 

Two  dozen  cucumbers,  size  for  table,  slice  thin,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  off  water  in  the 
morning.  Put  one  cup  of  olive  oil  in  the  bottom  of  a  stone  jar, 
then  put  in  the  sliced  cucumbers,  adding  one-half  cup  white  mus¬ 
tard  seed,  one  quart  cider  vinegar.  Let  stand  a  week  before  using. 
If  desired,  ten  small  onions  chopped  fine  may  be  added  to  the  above 
relish.  Mrs.  A.  G.  Kelley 

CHOPPED  GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 
One  peck  green  tomatoes  chopped  and  drained  for  about  two 
hours.  Throw  water  away.  Chop  six  onions,  four  green  peppers, 
one  bunch  celery;  keep  all  juice.  Three  pints  of  vinegar,  two  and 
one-half  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoon  each,  ginger,  all¬ 
spice,  clove,  cinnamon.  Tie  spices  loosely  in  small  bag.  One-half 
cup  salt.  Five  cents  worth  of  mustard  seed  may  be  added.  Cook 
one  and  one-half  hours;  stir  often.  Mrs.  Samuel  Crown 

POTTSFIELD  PICKLE 
3  qts.  green  tomatoes  1  qt.  onion 

3  qts.  ripe  tomatoes  1  bunch  celery 

3  red  peppers 

Chop  fine,  sprinkle  with  one-half  cup  salt.  Let  stand  over 
night,  drain.  Add  three  pints  vinegar,  one  and  one-half  pints 
sugar,  one-fourth  tablespoon  white  mustard.  Cook  until  soft. 

Mrs.  George  James 


The  Home-Makers  Cookbook 


135 


POTTSFIELD  PICKLE 
3  pints  green  tomatoes  1  qt.  onions 

3  pints  red  tomatoes  3  red  peppers 

1  cabbage  2  bunches  celery 

1  cauliflower 

Chop  fine,  add  one  cup  of  salt,  let  stand  over  night,  drain. 
Add  three  pints  vinegar,  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  each  of  clove  and  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  white  mustard 
seed.  Cook  for  half  an  hour,  bottle  while  hot. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Cotter,  Lowell 

PEPPER  RELISH 

12  red  peppers  )  remove  1  quart  vinegar 

12  green  peppers  J  seeds  3  cups  white  sugar 

12  onions  2  tablespoons  salt 

Put  peppers  and  onions  through  coarse  grinder,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  let  stand  twenty  minutes,  drain.  Add  vinegar, 
sugar  and  salt.  Cook  until  soft,  about  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Willson,  Lowell 
Miss  Olivia  Tolman,  Arlington 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLE 

3  pints  tomatoes,  peeled  and  6  tablespoons  sugar 

chopped  6  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

1  cup  chopped  celery  3^  teaspoon  clove 

4  tablespoons  chopped  red  pepper  x/i  teaspoon  cinnamon 

4  tablespoons  chopped  onion  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

4  tablespoons  salt  2  cups  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover. 
This  uncooked  mixture  must  stand  a  week  before  using,  but  may  be 
kept  a  year.  Mrs.  R.  E.  Gay 

TOMATO  RELISH 
3  pints  green  tomatoes  3  onions 

3  pints  ripe  tomatoes  3  sweet  peppers 

3  pints  cabbage  XA  cup  salt 

Let  stand  over  night,  in  morning  drain.  Add  three  pints 
vinegar,  package  mustard  seed,  three  pints  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  clove,  one-half  teaspoon  allspice. 
Cook  two  hours.  Mrs.  Helen  L.  Bean 

MUSTARD  PICKLE 

In  a  brine  made  of  four  quarts  of  water  and  one  pint  of  salt, 
soak  for  twenty-four  hours  three  quarts  very  small  cucumbers  and 


136 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


one  large  cauliflower  picked  into  pieces.  Scald,  but  not  boil,  drain. 
Chop  fine  and  pour  boiling  water  over  four  peppers  and  four  small 
onions,  drain.  Make  a  cream  as  follows:  To  nearly  three  quarts 
vinegar  add  two  and  one-half  cups  sugar  or  more  if  vinegar  is  very 
strong.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Beat  until  smooth,  one  cup  sifted  flour, 
six  tablespoons  mustard,  one  tablespoon  turmeric  and  a  little  cold 
vinegar.  Stir  into  the  boiling  vinegar  until  smooth.  Add  the 
chopped  onions  and  peppers  and  stir.  Then  add  cucumbers  and 
cauliflower.  M.  Ella  Marshall,  Lowell 


CHILLI  SAUCE 


25  ripe  tomatoes 
3  ripe  peppers 
1  large  onion 
2^  cups  vinegar 

Chop  fine  and  boil  two  hours. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Willson,  Lowell 


1  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  salt 

1  teaspoon  allspice 
1  teaspoon  clove 


CHUTNEY  —  UNCOOKED 

1  lb.  apples  1  oz.  white  mustard  seed 

%  lb.  raisins  1  oz.  salt 

1  dozen  ripe  tomatoes  1  lb.  granulated  sugar 

2  red  peppers  (medium)  1  quart  vinegar,  boiled  and 

6  onions  (small)  cooled 

Y  cup  mint  leaves 

Chop  first  six  ingredients  fine,  add  others.  Put  all  into  stone 
crock.  Stir  every  day  for  ten  days.  Do  not  cook. 

Miss  A.  J.  Whittredge,  Great  Neck,  L.  I. 


CHUTNEY  —  COOKED 
6  green  tomatoes  12  sour  apples 

6  green  peppers  4  small  onions 

1  cup  seeded  raisins 

Chop  together  fine.  Stir  two  cups  brown  sugar,  two  table¬ 
spoons  salt,  two  tablespoons  mustard  seed,  into  one  quart  vinegar. 
Let  this  liquid  boil  five  minutes,  add  the  chopped  mixture  and]boil 
one  hour.  Put  in  small  glass  jars  and  seal  tight. 

Mrs.  Gertrude  E.  Bailey 

BEET  PICKLES 

Boil  small  beets  until  tender.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  cup  sugar, 
one  quart  vinegar,  boil  five  minutes,  add  the  beets  and  seal  when 
boiling  hot.  Mrs.  John  Dupee 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


137 


PICKLED  CARROTS 

Clean  and  scrape  golden  carrots  and  quarter  lengthwise;  boil 
in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain  and  put  in  jars.  To  each  two 
quarts  of  carrots  use  two  cups  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one 
cup  water  and  a  small  bag  of  mixed  spices.  Boil  vinegar,  sugar, 
water  and  spice,  pour  boiling  hot  over  carrots  until  jars  are  full. 
Seal.  Mrs.  Alton  N.  Parker 

BEET  RELISH 

Chop  one  quart  cooked  beets,  one  quart  raw  cabbage.  Add 
one  cup  grated  horseradish,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  table¬ 
spoon  salt,  one-half  tablespoon  black  pepper.  Add  only  enough 
vinegar  to  moisten.  Mrs.  L.  G.  Pillsbury,  Dracut 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEARS 

Seven  pounds  pears,  four  pounds  sugar,  one  quart  vinegar, 
one-half  ounce  stick  cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  whole  cloves.  Tie 
spices  in  small  cheesecloth  bags.  Boil  ten  minutes  with  vinegar 
and  sugar.  Remove  skins  from  pears  and  cook  whole,  or  half  and 
remove  seeds,  then  cook  in  syrup  until  tender.  Remove  fruit, 
boil  sugar  and  vinegar  until  syrupy.  Pour  over  fruit. 

Peaches,  plums,  crab-apples  may  be  pickled  in  same  way. 

M.  E.  Marshall 

WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE 

Remove  all  the  outside  and  pink  inside  of  watermelon,  cut  in 
pieces  about  an  inch  in  size.  Cover  with  alum  water,  two  tea¬ 
spoons  to  quart  of  water.  Heat  to  boiling  point  and  cook  slowly 
two  hours,  or  until  rind  can  be  pierced  with  straw.  Chill  in  ice 
water,  cook  in  following  syrup  ten  minutes  and  seal  while  hot : 

2  pounds  sugar  2  tablespoons  whole  clove 

1  pint  vinegar  1  stick  of  cinnamon 

Boil  five  minutes.  Mrs.  Melvin  G.  Rogers 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

Cut  cucumbers  in  halves,  lengthwise,  cover  with  alum  water, 
allowing  two  teaspoons  of  powdered  alum  to  each  quart  of  water. 
Heat  gradually  to  boiling  point,  then  stand  on  back  of  range  for 
two  hours.  Remove  from  alum  water  and  chill  in  ice  water.  Make 
a  syrup  by  boiling  five  minutes  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint 
vinegar  with  two  tablespoons  each  of  whole  cloves  and  stick  cin¬ 
namon  tied  in  piece  of  muslin.  Add  cucumbers  and  cook  ten  min- 


138 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


utes.  Remove  cucumbers  to  stone  jar  and  pour  syrup  over  them. 
Scald  syrup  three  successive  mornings  and  return  to  fruit. 

Dorothy  B.  Cutler 

GRAPE  CATSUP 

5  lbs.  grapes,  boil  and  strain  1  teaspoon  clove 

through  colander  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  pint  vinegar  1  teaspoon  allspice 

teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  pepper 

lbs.  sugar 

Boil  until  sufficiently  thick.  Mrs.  Deual,  Amherst 
CURRANT  CATSUP 

5  lbs.  currants,  cook  and  strain  through  sieve 
3  lbs.  brown  sugar  1  pint  vinegar 

Simmer  sugar  and  vinegar  until  sugar  is  melted,  pour  over 
currants,  add  one  tablespoon  allspice,  cinnamon,  clove;  pepper  if 
desired.  Simmer  all  the  ingredients  three  hours.  Put  in  bottles 
and  cork  tightly.  M.  E.  Marshall 

TOMATO  CATSUP  NO.  1 

6  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped  1  cup  sugar 

1  onion,  peeled  and  chopped  1  cup  vinegar 

1  pepper,  chopped  3  teaspoons  salt 

Cook  until  tender,  bottle  while  hot.  Mrs.  Grace  Foss 

TOMATO  CATSUP  NO.  2 

3^  bushel  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  pepper 

2  quarts  vinegar  1  tablespoon  mustard 

3  tablespoons  salt  1  tablespoon  allspice 

Peel  and  chop,  or  mash  tomatoes,  add  other  ingredients. 
Long  slow  cooking  is  needed  to  reduce  to  right  thickness. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP 

6  large  cucumbers,  fresh  2  small  or  1  large  onion 

1  pint  vinegar  1  teaspoon  white  pepper 

Pare  cucumbers  very  thin  and  chop  fine.  Add  one  small 
tablespoon  salt,  let  drain  in  colander  about  one  hour.  Add  onions 
chopped  fine,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Stir  all  together,  put  in  wide¬ 
mouthed  bottles  sealed  tight.  Let  stand  at  least  a  month  before 
using.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Jordan 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


139 


DUTCH  SALAD 

1  quart  cabbage  1  quart  green  tomatoes 

1  quart  cauliflower  1  quart  onions 

1  quart  cucumber  2  green  peppers,  remove  seeds 

1  bunch  celery  if  desired  1  sweet,  red  pepper  sliced  fine 

Chop  and  cover  above  mixture  with  cold  water  in  which  one 
cup  of  salt  has  been  dissolved,  let  stand  over  night,  drain.  Cover 
with  hot  water,  cook  until  tender. 

Drain,  put  sauce  over  vegetables. 

Sauce  For  Above 

1  pint  vinegar  heated  to  boiling  4  tablespoons  mustard 

1  cup  flour  1  tablespoon  tumeric 

Sugar  to  taste. 

Mix  the  above,  wet  with  vinegar  to  paste,  add  hot  vinegar. 
Cook  about  ten  minutes  taking  care  not  to  scorch.  Pour  over  salad. 
If  too  thick,  liquid  can  be  added.  Dr.  Anna  Barker 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE 
30  good-sized  green  cucumbers  4  onions 

1  small  cup  of  salt  1  cup  white  mustard  seed 

Vinegar  3^3  cup  pepper 

Pare  onions  and  cucumbers  and  chop  together.  Add  one  cup 
salt.  Let  stand  twelve  hours,  drain  off  brine.  Add  one  cup  white 
mustard  seed,  one-third  cup  white  pepper.  Vinegar  to  cover.  Do 
not  cook.  Miss  Fannie  Munroe 

CORN  RELISH 

24  ears  of  corn  4  large  onions 

1  head  cabbage  4  green  peppers 

1  red  pepper 

Cut  corn  off  cobs,  chop  other  vegetables.  Turn  all  in  a  kettle, 
add  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  set  to  boil. 

Mix  together 

3  cups  sugar  M  cup  dry  mustard 

3^  cup  salt  M  CUP  flour 

1  teaspoon  tumeric 

Mix  in  gradually  one  more  quart  of  vinegar  and  add  slowly  to 
boiling  mixture.  Boil  together  thirty-five  minutes  and  then  seal. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Jordan 


140 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


2  lbs.  rhubarb 
2  lbs.  brown  sugar 
1  oz.  garlic 
1  oz.  salt 


RHUBARB  CHUTNEY 

1  lb.  Sultana  raisins 

2  lemons 

3^  teaspoon  cayenne 
1  oz.  ginger  root 
1  pt.  vinegar 

Cut  the  rhubarb  into  fine  shreds,  remove  skins  from  lemons, 
take  out  pips,  cut  small.  Cut  the  garlic  into  small  pieces  and 
bruise  ginger.  Put  together  and  boil  until  it  becomes  thick,  stir¬ 
ring  frequently.  When  done,  take  out  ginger,  put  chutney  into 
jars  and  cover.  Much  improved  if  kept  a  month  before  using. 

Mrs.  E.  Lyddon 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 


Fruits  may  be  canned  by  cooking  over  heat  in  a  preserving 
kettle  or  by  the  so-called  Cold  Pack,  Canned  Cooked  or  Container 
Cooked  method. 

The  simplest  and  cheapest  type  of  equipment  for  can  cooked 
canning  is  the  water  bath  outfit.  This  consists  of  a  vessel  with  a 
tight-fitting  cover  and  a  rack  or  false  bottom  to  hold  the  jars  above 
the  bottom  of  the  container.  This  should  be  deep  enough  to  allow 
the  water  to  cover  the  jars  at  least  one  or  two  inches.  A  wash- 
boiler,  new  garbage  can  or  preserving  kettle  may  be  used. 

All  fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  sound  and  if  possible, 
freshly  picked.  This  is  especially  important  with  corn  and  string 
beans.  It  is  best  all  products  be  under  rather  than  overripe. 

All  vegetables  should  be  blanched,  as  it  reduces  the  bulk  and 
removes  objectionable  flavors.  A  wire  basket  or  square  of  cheese¬ 
cloth  is  convenient  for  this.  In  either  of  these  they  should  be 
plunged  into  boiling  water  and  cooked  for  length  of  time  given  in 
time-table  below.  As  soon  as  the  products  are  removed  from  the 
hot  bath,  they  should  be  dipped  several  times  up  and  down  in  cold 
water,  or  they  may  be  turned  into  a  sieve  or  colander  and  cold 
water  run  freely  over  them. 

In  canning  vegetables,  fill  the  jars  as  soon  as  possible  after 
being  cold  dipped.  To  each  quart  jar  add  one  level  teaspoon  salt 
and  fill  with  boiling  water  to  one  inch  of  top.  Adjust  rubbers,  and 
top  partially,  and  put  in  container  of  hot  water.  The  length  of 
time  for  cooking  or  processing  is  given  in  table  below. 

Jars  of  fruit  should  be  filled  with  hot  syrup.  Syrup  is  made  by 
adding  sugar  and  water  together  and  heating  until  sugar  is  dis¬ 
solved.  The  amount  of  sugar  used  should  be  determined  by  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit  and  the  taste  of  the  individual.  As  soon  as 
jars  are  out  of  container,  put  down  clamps. 

Time-Table  for  Blanching  and  Processing  as  given  in  Food 
Preservation  Primer  of  Massachusetts  Agricultural  College  Ex¬ 
tension  Service. 

If  two-quart  jars  are  used  add  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes 
for  water  bath. 

Blanch  or  Scald  Water  Bath 
Minutes  Minutes 

Vegetables  Asparagus  15  120 

Beets  5  90 

Carrots  5  90 


142 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


Cauliflower 

3 

60 

Corn 

5-10 

180 

Greens 

15-20 

120 

Lima  Beans 

5-10 

180 

Peas 

5-10 

180 

Peppers 

7 

90 

Pumpkin 

3 

120 

Shell  Beans 

5-10 

180 

String  Beans 

5-10 

120 

Squash 

3 

120 

Tomatoes 

1-2 

22 

Vegetable  Combination 

5-10 

120 

Fruits 

Apples 

1-2 

20 

Blackberries 

16 

Blueberries 

16 

Cherries 

16 

Currants 

16 

Grapes 

16 

Gooseberries 

1-2 

16 

Pears 

1-2 

20 

Peaches 

1-2 

16 

Plums 

1-2 

16 

Pineapple 

30 

Quince 

1-2 

20 

Strawberries 

16 

Rhubarb 

16 

Raspberries 

16 

Soups 

Tomato 

20 

Chicken 

90 

Meat  Stock 

120 

Meats 

Poultry  or  Game 

180 

Beef,  lamb,  rabbit  or  fish 

180 

CANNING  ASPARAGUS 

(For  about  one  quart) 

1.  Fill  kettle  about  one-quarter  full  of  water  and  bring  to  a 
boil. 

2.  Take  four  pounds  of  asparagus  —  wash. 

3.  Cut  to  desired  lengths  and  tie  in  bunches. 

4.  Stand  asparagus  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes.  Tip 
bunch  over  and  leave  one  minute. 

5.  Pack  evenly  and  tightly  into  jars,  cover  with  water  and  add 
one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a  quart  jar. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


143 


6.  Put  up  bail  and  process  in  hot  water  bath  for  one  hundred 
minutes. 

7.  Finish  sealing  by  putting  down  clamp. 

8.  Cut  what  is  good  of  remaining  asparagus  into  small  pieces. 

9.  Blanch  in  boiling  water  for  four  minutes,  cold  dip  and  put 
into  pint  jars. 

10.  Add  salt,  —  put  on  rubber  and  cover  with  water,  partially 
seal  and  process  one  hundred  minutes. 

11.  Finish  seal.  Velma  M. -Trull 

CANNING  WAX  BEANS 

1.  Take  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  beans. 

2.  Wash,  tip.  Cut  into  pieces  about  an  inch  in  length.  Blanch 
in  boiling  water  for  four  minutes.  Cold  dip. 

3.  Pack  in  jars.  Fill  jars  with  water  and  add  one  teaspoon  salt. 

4.  Adjust  rubber  and  lid,  partially  seal  and  process  in  hot 
water  bath  for  one  hundred  minutes.  Put  down  clamp. 

Velma  M.  Trull 

CANNING  GREENS 

1.  Take  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  spinach  (or  any  other  kind 
of  greens). 

2.  Wash  thoroughly,  cut  off  roots. 

3.  Blanch  in  boiling  water  for  three  minutes.  Cold  dip. 

4.  Pack  into  jars.  Cut  pack  diagonally  with  knife.  Add  one 
teaspoon  salt. 

5.  Adjust  rubber  and  cover  with  water,  partially  seal  and 
process  for  one  hundred  minutes.  Put  down  clamp. 

Velma  M.  Trull 

CANNING  POULTRY  AND  GAME  BIRDS 
Kill  fowl  and  draw  at  once.  Wash  and  cook.  Cut  into  sec¬ 
tions  and  place  in  a  kettle.  Cover  with  hot  water  and  boil  until 
meat  can  be  removed  from  bones.  Remove  meat  from  bones  and 
pack  in  jars;  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a  pint  jar  and  process 
three  hours. 

A  four-pound  chicken  makes  one  pint  solid  meat. 

Velma  M.  Trull 

CANNING  PEACHES 

To  can  peaches  you  must  first  assort  them.  Then  scald  or 
blanch  them  for  about  two  minutes.  This  will  loosen  the  skins. 
Plunge  them  up  and  down  in  cold  water.  Remove  the  skins  and 
pack  into  the  jars. 


144 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Make  a  medium  syrup  of  about  one-third  parts  water  and 
two  thirds  sugar.  After  this  has  boiled,  add  it  gradually  to  avoid 
breaking  the  jar.  Be  sure  that  there  are  no  air  spaces  in  the  jar 
and  that  the  jar  is  full. 

Partially  seal  and  boil  for  sixteen  minutes;  then  seal. 

Peaches  may  be  canned  whole,  in  halves,  in  slices  and  many 
other  ways,  but  it  is  all  done  in  the  same  manner. 

Marion  E.  Foster 

Jelly  making  by  directions  given  by  the  Agricultural  College 
Extension  Service  differs  in  some  ways  from  the  tried  and  proved 
receipts  given  here,  but  the  work  seems  no  less  and  as  far  as  re¬ 
sults  are  known  to  us,  they  are  no  better. 

APPLE  JELLY 

Wipe  apples,  remove  stem  and  blossom  ends  and  cut  in  quar¬ 
ters.  Barely  cover  with  water,  cover  kettle  and  let  stand  and  cook 
very  slowly  until  juice  is  drawn  out.  Drain  through  a  jelly  bag. 
Do  not  squeeze  if  a  clear  jelly  is  desired.  Measure  juice,  allow  from 
one-half  to  three-fourths  as  much  sugar  as  juice,  according  to  the 
acidity  of  the  apples.  It  is  well  to  heat  the  sugar  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Put  juice  in  kettle,  boil  from  five  to  ten  minutes.  Strain, 
heat  again  to  boiling  point,  add  the  sugar  and  cook  until  right 
thickness.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses. 

An  equally  good  jelly  can  be  made  by  using  only  the  thick 
parings  and  cores  of  apples.  Mrs.  A.  C.  Tingley 

GREEN  GRAPE  JELLY 

1  quart  of  water  1  peck  of  green  grapes 

Cook  the  grapes  until  soft,  then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag. 
Boil  the  juice  twenty  minutes  and  to  a  pint  of  juice  add  a  pint  and 
one-half  of  sugar,  which  has  stood  in  oven  until  hot.  Boil  one 
minute  longer,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  turn  into  glasses. 

Mrs.  Joel  Baldwin 

GRAPE  JELLY 

Wild  grapes,  not  too  ripe,  are  good  for  jelly.  Wash  the  grapes, 
free  them  from  the  stem,  put  in  kettle  and  mash  until  all  are 
broken.  Heat  slowly  and  cook  until  the  juice  is  well  drawn  out. 
Strain  through  jelly  bag  without  any  pressure.  Measure  the  juice 
and  allow  an  equal  measure  of  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  fifteen  minutes, 
strain  again.  Add  the  sugar  and  boil  until  the  surface  looks 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


145 


wrinkled  and  the  liquid  jellies  on  the  edge.  Skim  well  and  turn 
into  glasses. 

A  jelly  made  of  equal  parts  of  grapes  and  apples  has  a  fine 
flavor.  Mrs.  Mary  Corr 

MINT  JELLY 

Wipe  apples,  remove  stem  and  blossom  end  and  cut  in  quar¬ 
ters.  Add  sufficient  water  to  come  to  tops  of  apples.  Cover  and 
cook  slowly  until  apples  are  soft.  Wash  and  strain  through  a 
coarse  strainer.  Put  the  juice  obtained  by  straining,  in  a  jelly 
bag  and  allow  to  drain.  Measure  the  amount  of  juice  and  boil 
twenty  minutes  with  one-half  cup  of  crushed  mint  leaves.  Add  an 
equal  amount  of  heated  sugar  and  boil  five  minutes.  Skim  after 
removing  from  the  fire  and  pour  into  glasses.  Place  the  jelly  in  a 
sunny  window  for  twelve  or  twenty-four  hours.  Cover  with 
paraffin  and  lastly  with  paper  bags,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Hanson 

CHOKECHERRY  JELLY 

Four  quarts  chokecherries  stripped  from  the  stems.  Sixteen 
juicy,  red  fall  apples,  cook  together  until  soft  with  just  enough 
water  to  cover.  Strain  through  cheesecloth  jelly  bag  and  heat 
juice  to  a  boiling  point  before  adding  sugar.  Add  pint  of  sugar  to 
pint  of  juice.  Boil  until  it  seems  sufficiently  thick. 

Mrs.  E.  E.  Merrill 

THREE  FRUIT  JELLY 

Take  one  part  cranberries,  two  parts  quinces,  three  parts 
apples.  Prepare  and  cook  together  as  for  apple  jelly.  Measure 
juice  and  allow  three-fourths  as  much  sugar  as  juice.  Boil  juice 
twenty  minutes,  strain,  return  to  kettle,  add  heated  sugar  and 
boil.  Should  jelly  very  quickly.  M.  Esther  Marshall 

CRANBERRY  JELLY 

Wash  berries  and  put  on  fire  to  stew,  putting  in  a  very  little 
water,  about  one  cup  of  water  to  a  quart  of  berries.  When  soft, 
mash  through  a  wire  sieve  and  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar. 
Do  not  return  to  the  fire,  for  in  a  very  short  time  you  will  have  a 
nice,  hard  jell.  The  berries  should  be  mashed  as  soon  as  taken 
from  the  fire  and  the  sugar  added  as  quickly  as  possible  that  the 
heat  may  dissolve  it  at  once.  Mrs.  Irma  French 

CRANBERRY  JELLY  II. 

Cook  cranberries  in  water  to  cover.  Put  in  a  jelly  bag  and 
squeeze  out  juice.  Return  to  kettle  with  an  equal  amount  of 


146 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


heated  sugar  and  boil  until  the  surface  looks  wrinkled  and  the 
liquid  jellies  on  the  edge  of  the  spoon.  In  this  way  all  seeds  and 
skins  are  removed,  but  the  jelly  is  not  as  clear  as  if  allowed  to  drip. 

M.  E.  Marshall 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 
6  oranges  2  lemons 

Slice  thin,  add  six  quarts  cold  water  and  let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  boil  down  to  one-half  the  quantity;  then  add  five 
or  six  pounds  of  sugar  and  cook  about  one  hour  or  until  it  becomes 

jelly. 

In  the  real  Scotch  orange  marmalade  the  seeds  of  the  fruit 
are  put  in  a  thin  bag  and  boiled  in  the  first  cooking.  This  gives 
a  bitter  flavor  liked  by  many.  Miss  M.  F.  Spaulding 

ORANGE  AND  PINEAPPLE  MARMALADE 
1  quart  can  of  grated  pineapple  4  oranges 
4  lbs.  sugar 

Cut  oranges  fine  and  cook  in  a  cup  of  water  until  skin  is 
tender.  Add  one  quart  can  of  grated  pineapple,  four  pounds  of 
sugar.  Cook  until  desired  thickness. 

Mrs.  Edward  Winkler 

TOMATO  MARMALADE 

4  quarts  yellow  tomatoes  sliced  fine  6  lemons  sliced  fine 
4  pounds  sugar  6  oranges  sliced  fine 

1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

Cook  until  thick  and  put  in  tumblers  as  jelly. 

Mrs.  Fred  Briggs 

PEACH  MARMALADE 
24  peaches  3  lbs.  sugar 

3  cups  water  cups  walnut  meats 

Boil  sugar  and  water  fifteen  minutes,  add  peachesjcut  in 
small  pieces,  boil  one  and  one-half  hours,  stirring  frequently 
to  prevent  burning.  Add  one  and  one-half  cups  walnut  meats. 
Put  in  glasses.  Mrs.  Harry  G.  Blood 

APRICOT  MARMALADE 

1  pound  dried  apricots  2  cups  water 

2  cups  sugar  1  lemon 

Soak  apricots  one  hour.  Wash  and  soak  in  fresh  water  over 
night.  Simmer  apricots  until  very  soft  in  two  cups  of  water  in 
which  they  were  soaked.  Mash  very  fine.  Add  sugar,  rind  and 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


147 


juice  of  lemon.  Simmer  all  together  forty  minutes  or  until  thick 
as  needed.  This  makes  four  or  five  glasses. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  Hale 

ORANGE  AND  GRAPEFRUIT  MARMALADE 

1  orange  1  grapefruit 

1  lemon 

Slice  very  thin,  measure  and  allow  three  times  its  bulk  in 
water.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  let 
stand  again  twenty-four  hours.  Add  three-fourths  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit  and  let  boil  until  it  jellies. 

Mrs.  Edward  Winkler,  Wakefield 

LIME  MARMALADE 

8  pickled  limes  12  green  tomatoes 

Chop  and  for  every  quart  add  three-fourths  of  a  quart  of 
sugar.  Simmer  two  hours.  Very  nice. 

Miss  A.  J.  Whittredge,  Great  Neck,  L.  I. 

RHUBARB  CONSERVE 

2  pounds  rhubarb  2  oranges,  juice  and  rind 

1  pound  seedless  raisins  pound  walnuts 

2  pounds  sugar  2  cups  water 

Put  oranges,  nuts  and  raisins  through  grinder,  cut  rhubarb 
in  very  small  pieces.  Cook  very  slowly  until  thick.  Be  careful 
not  to  burn.  Mrs.  Frank  Stevens,  Newbury  port 

PLUMB  CONSERVE 

5  pounds  plums  4  large  oranges 

5  pounds  sugar  2  lemons  (juice  only) 

1  pound  seedless  raisins  1  pound  nuts 

Cut  plums  in  halves,  remove  the  pits.  Boil  plums,  sugar, 
grated  rind  and  pulp  of  four  large  oranges,  juice  of  two  lemons, 
skin  of  one  orange  cut  in  shreds,  for  ten  minutes.  Then  put  kettle 
on  back  of  stove  to  simmer  until  plums  are  very  soft.  Add  one 
pound  coarsely  chopped  English  walnuts,  one  pound  seedless 
raisins  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer.  Turn  into  jelly  glasses  and 
cover  with  paraffin  when  cool. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Talbot,  Brookline 

APPLE  AND  PLUM  CONSERVE 

5  lbs.  apples,  pared  and  sliced  3  lemons  cut  fine 

1  lb.  plums,  stoned  and  cut  in  3^  lbs.  sugar 

small  pieces 


148 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


Cook  fruit  in  one  quart  of  water  until  soft.  Add  three  and 
one-half  pounds  of  sugar.  Cook  until  thick  as  jam. 

S.  E.  Hale,  Danvers 

CURRANT  ORANGE  CONSERVE 
4  quarts  currants  7)4  lbs.  sugar 

3  small  thin-skinned  oranges  434  cups  water 

Place  currants  in  preserving  kettle.  Over  them  put  oranges 
sliced  very  thin.  Add  sugar  and  water.  Let  stand  over  night. 
Cook  fifteen  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil.  Seal  in  sterilized 
glasses.  Mrs.  Howard  Foster 

PINEAPPLE  AND  STRAWBERRY  CONSERVE 
One  large  or  two  small  pineapples  put  through  coarse  chopper. 
Weigh  and  add  same  amount  of  sugar  (or  half  white  Karo  syrup). 
Let  stand  over  night.  In  morning  take  five  boxes  of  strawberries, 
hull,  mash,  weigh  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Let  pine¬ 
apple  cook  twenty  minutes,  then  add  strawberries  and  cook  all 
forty-five  minutes.  If  syrup  is  used,  cook  a  good  hour. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Osterman 

CRANBERRY  CONSERVE 
1  quart  cranberries  2  oranges 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  Sugar 

Cook  the  cranberries,  coarsely  chopped,  in  barely  enough 
water  to  float.  When  soft  measure  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  oranges,  the  raisins  and  pulp  of  oranges, 
cut  fine.  Simmer  until  very  thick,  pour  into  heated  glasses. 

Should  stand  a  few  days  before  using. 

M.  Esther  Marshall 

If  the  seeds  of  cranberries  are  not  liked  cut,  after  washing,  in 
halves,  put  into  a  dish  of  cold  water.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  and 
the  greater  part  of  seeds  will  sink  to  the  bottom  of  dish. 

PLUM  CONSERVE 

3  lbs.  plums,  not  too  ripe  3  lbs.  sugar 

4  oranges  (cut  fine  through  meat  1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

chopper)  1)4  lbs.  walnuts  (in  shells) 

Grate  rind 

Cook  one  hour  and  five  minutes,  putting  in  walnuts  before 
done.  Mrs.  F.  B.  Trull 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


149 


APPLE  AND  PLUM  CONSERVE 
5  lbs.  apples  pared  and  sliced  3  lemons  cut  fine  (use  rinds) 

5  lbs.  plums  stoned  and  cut  in  small  3 Yl  lbs.  sugar 
pieces 

Cook  fruit  soft  in  one  quart  of  water.  Add  sugar.  Cook  until 
thick  as  jam.  S.  E.  Hale,  Danvers 

RHUBARB  JAM 

3  lbs.  rhubarb  3  lbs.  sugar 

1  qt.  strawberries 

Cut  up  rhubarb  and  cover  with  sugar,  let  stand  until  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Boil  until  it  jams,  with  one  quart  of  strawberries. 

Mrs.  Daniel  Pike 

STRAWBERRY  PINEAPPLE  JAM 
3  cups  sugar  2  cups  strawberries 

1  cup  pineapple 

Put  pineapple  through  food  chopper.  Cook  all  ingredients 
together  until  thick.  Mrs.  John  E.  Foster,  Lowell 

BAR-LE-DUC 

3  quarts  ripe,  red  currants  3  quarts  granulated  sugar 

1  jelly  glass  strained  honey 

Let  currants  and  sugar  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  add 
honey  and  boil  twenty-five  minutes.  Take  out  part  of  the  cur¬ 
rants.  Pour  into  small  jelly  glasses  and  seal  when  cold. 

Mrs.  H.  P.  Dinsmore 

PLUM  PRESERVES 

Six  pounds  plums  stemmed,  washed  and  pricked  with  a  silver 
fork.  Cover  with  boiling  water  to  which  one  tablespoon  soda  has 
been  added.  Parboil  until  water  turns  black.  Drain,  make  a  syrup 
of  three  pounds  of  sugar,  two  cups  water,  adding  plums  few  at  a 
time.  Cook  until  tender.  S.  E.  Hale,  Danvers 

PEAR  CHIPS 

8  lbs.  pears  5  lbs.  sugar 

6  lemons  lb.  preserved  ginger 

Slice  pears  very  thin,  slice  two  of  the  lemons  thin;  with  the 
skins  on,  and  four  without  the  skins.  Also  slice  the  ginger.  Mix 
all  together  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours;  then  cook  slowly, 
simmering  till  the  pears  look  clear.  This  will  keep  indefinitely. 

Mrs.  Helen  L.  Bean,  Lowell 


CONFECTIONERY 

“A  Wilderness  of  Sweets.”  —  Milton 
FONDANT  (Unflavored) 

3  lbs.  granulated  sugar  1%  pints  cold  water 

34  level  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
Place  ingredients  in  kettle  and  stir  until  dissolved,  no  longer. 
Do  not  stir  during  cooking  period.  Keep  sides  of  kettle  free  and 
clear  of  crystals  by  using  a  swab  made  by  winding  small  pieces  of 
cheese-cloth  around  knife  blade.  Wet  swab  and  rub  down  sides  of 
kettle  as  fondant  boils.  When  thermometer  registers  238  degrees, 
or  when  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  forms  soft  fall,  remove  from 
fire  and  pour  on  large  china  platter  that  has  been  well  dampened 
with  cold  water.  Pour  syrup  carefully  and  slowly  on  platter.  Do 
not  scrape  out  the  last  few  drops  from  kettle;  it  will  granulate 
fondant. 

When  batch  cools,  stir  with  wooden  spoon  or  spatula  until 
thick  enough  to  mould  with  hands.  When  moulded,  place  in  jar 
and  cover  with  heavy  wax  paper,  over  this  a  damp  cheese-cloth 
until  wanted  for  use.  Mrs.  Dinsmore 

AFTER  DINNER  MINTS 
2  lbs.  granulated  sugar  4  oz.  fondant 

94  pint  water  1)4  teaspoons  oil  peppermint 

34  level  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  134  lbs.  confectionery  sugar 

Before  putting  batch  on  stove,  sift  into  a  cake  pan  one  and 
one-half  lbs.  confectionery  sugar,  free  from  lumps.  Put  granulated 
sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  in  kettle,  stir  until  sugar  is  dis¬ 
solved.  Put  kettle  on  stove,  put  candy  thermometer  in  batch 
and  boil  without  stirring  until  thermometer  registers  265  degrees. 
If  crystals  form  on  sides  of  kettle,  wash  off  carefully  with  cheese¬ 
cloth  swab.  When  265  degrees  has  been  reached,  remove  kettle 
from  stove  and  pour  slowly  and  carefully  onto  marble  slab  or  large 
platter  that  has  been  well  oiled.  Let  stand  for  a  few  minutes  until 
edges  begin  to  cool.  Then  place  in  centre  of  batch  the  four  ounces 
of  fondant.  Drop  from  the  spoon  all  over  batch  the  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  of  oil  of  peppermint. 

Fold  over  edges  until  fondant  is  covered.  As  soon  as  cool 
enough  to  handle,  stretch  out  and  pull  until  snow  white  in  color 
and  light  and  fluffy,  then  stretch  out  into  long  strip  that  is  about 
one-half  inch  thick  and  with  a  pair  of  sharp  scissors  clip  off  pieces 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


151 


about  one-half  inch  long,  dropping  them  as  you  clip,  into  the  pan 
of  confectionery  sugar.  Allow  them  to  remain  in  pan  about  twelve 
hours,  then  put  in  a  colander  or  wire  basket  and  dust  off  with  a 
piece  of  dry  cheese-cloth  to  remove  sugar. 

If  thermometer  is  not  used,  test  by  dropping  a  spoonful  in 
cup  of  cold  water.  It  will  be  too  hard  to  form  into  a  ball. 

Mrs.  Dinsmore 

CHOCOLATE  DROPS 

2  cups  sugar  x/l  cup  water 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  level 

Let  boil  without  stirring,  until  it  will  form  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Set  to  cool  until  you  can  bear  your  hand 
on  bottom  of  dish.  When  cool  enough,  flavor  with  any  flavor  and 
use  color  if  you  wish.  Beat  until  you  can  knead  with  hands.  Have 
a  plate  buttered  and  knead  a  few  minutes,  then  mould  in  any  shape, 
set  away  to  cool  on  a  wire  screen  with  wax  paper  on  it;  a  window 
screen  will  do.  Melt  one-half  lb.  bitter  chocolate  and  one-half 
cake  of  paraffin  by  setting  in  bowl  of  hot  water.  When  fondant  is 
cold,  take  a  darning  needle,  place  in  bottom  of  fondant,  dip  in 
chocolate  and  place  on  wax  paper,  pulling  the  needle  down  through 
the  screen.  Mrs.  W.  T.  Ellis 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

2  cups  sugar  lb.  Baker’s  bitter  chocolate 

1  small  can  evaporated  milk  3  tablespoons  marshmallow 

1  teaspoon  butter  cream 

Pinch  of  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Boil  sugar,  milk,  chocolate  and  salt  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed 
in  cold  water.  Stir  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  When  done, 
turn  out  fire  without  moving  the  dish,  add  marshmallow  cream 
and  butter  and  beat  five  minutes.  Add  vanilla  near  end  of  beating. 

Mrs.  D.  W.  Coombes 

NUT  FUDGE 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  Butter  size  of  small  walnut 

cup  milk  1  cup  walnut  meats 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  ginger 

Cook  ten  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  whip  until  it  begins  to 
sugar.  Put  nuts  and  flavoring  in  after  removing  from  fire. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Shedd 


152 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


PEPPERMINTS 

\}/2  cups  sugar  Yi  cup  boiling  water 

6  drops  oil  peppermint 

Stir  sugar  and  water  until  dissolved.  Boil  ten  minutes,  re¬ 
move  from  fire,  add  peppermint  and  beat  until  creamy.  Drop 
from  tip  of  spoon  on  buttered  paper.  Mrs.  Austin  French 


FUDGE 

1 


tablespoon  butter 
tablespoon  marshmallow 
cream 

teaspoon  vanilla 


2  cups  light  brown  sugar 
1  cup  white  sugar 
1  cup  milk,  pinch  salt 
H  CUP  of  chopped  nut  meats,  if 
desired 

Put  on  in  sauce-pan  sugar,  milk  and  salt,  let  it  cook  one-half 
hour,  then  put  in  butter,  let  cook  twenty -five  minutes,  then  test  it 
in  cold  water.  When  done,  it  will  form  a  ball,  then  take  it  off,  put 
in  marshmallow  cream  and  vanilla,  beat  a  few  minutes,  put  in 
chopped  nut  meats,  beat  again,  pour  in  buttered  pan  when  soft, 
and  cut  in  squares.  Very  good.  Bertha  Chapman,  Lowell 


CANDIED  ORANGE  AND  GRAPEFRUIT  PEEL 
Cut  peel  in  thin  strips,  place  in  sauce-pan,  cover  well  with  cold 
water.  Bring  to  boil  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Drain  off  water, 
cover  again  with  cold  water,  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Pour  off 
water,  cover  this  time  with  boiling  water  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
By  this  time  the  peel  should  be  tender. 

Measure  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar.  Boil  until  all 
the  sugar  is  absorbed.  Remove  the  strips,  roll  in  powdered  sugar, 
gradually  separating  them,  one  by  one. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Patten,  Miami,  Fla. 

PUFFED  RICE  CRISP 

1  cup  molasses  Small  piece  butter 

13^2  cups  sugar  3^  cup  hot  or  cold  water 

13^2  dessert  spoons  vinegar 

Boil  until  brittle  when  tried  in  water,  stirring  while  it  boils. 
Puff  the  rice  in  the  oven.  Butter  a  sheet  pan  and  after  rice  is 
mixed  with  the  candy,  pour  all  into  pan,  spread  over  and  break  up 
when  cool  enough.  M.  A.  Kennedy 


TO  PRESERVE  GRAPEFRUIT  RIND 
Soak  in  cold  water  over  night,  pour  off  in  the  morning  and  boil 
in  three  different  waters  one  hour  each,  slightly  salted.  Then 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


153 


drain  in  colander.  Make  a  strong  syrup  of  two  cups  sugar  and 
very  little  water.  Cut  the  rinds  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  syrup 
and  cook  slowly  until  sugar  boils  away,  then  spread  on  plates  to 
dry  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  it.  Mrs.  J.  Lewis  Burtt 

PENUCHI 

3  cups  brown  sugar  y2  cup  butter 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  lb.  chopped  walnuts 
Beat  well  and  pour  into  buttered  pan. 

Mrs.  Helen  L.  Bean,  Lowell 

DIVINITY  FUDGE 

3^  cup  Karo  syrup  2  cups  white  sugar 

K  CUP  cold  water  3^2  cup  chopped  walnuts 

Boil  until  it  is  brittle  when  tried  in  water.  Remove  from  stove 
and  beat  into  it  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla;  nuts.  Beat  until  stiff.  Drop  from  spoon  on  buttered 
platter.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Holt 

Mrs.  Fred  Briggs 

TOFFEE 

3^2  cup  brown  sugar  y  cup  Karo 

y2  cup  white  sugar  y2  cup  cream.  Cook  to  240°F. 

Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  cook  to  250°F. 

Remove  from  fire  and  add 

y  teaspoon  salt  3^2  teaspoon  vanilla 

H  cup  broken  nut  meats 

Pour  into  buttered  pan  one-half  inch  thick.  While  warm  cut 
in  pieces  one-half  inch  by  one  and  one-half  inches,  and  wrap  in 
waxed  paper.  Miss  Clarice  Hutchins 

VANILLA  CARAMELS 

1  lb.  granulated  sugar  1  pint  sweet  cream 

1  lb.  corn  syrup  1  14-oz.  can  condensed  milk 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Put  all  except  vanilla  in  kettle,  cook  over  moderate  fire  until 
a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  will  form  ball  —  nearing  firm  stage. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla,  pour  in  tins  to  thickness  of  one- 
half  inch.  As  soon  as  cool  enough,  cut  in  one-inch  squares  and  roll  in 
waxed  paper. 


154 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


PEANUT  BRITTLE 

1)4  cups  sugar  2  cups  shelled  raw  Spanish 

%  cup  corn  syrup  peanuts 

%  cup  cold  water  )4  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  butter  (heaping)  J4  tablespoon  soda 
34  teaspoon  salt  34  tablespoon  cold  water 

Put  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  two-thirds  cup  cold  water  in  iron 
kettle,  stirring  until  mixture  boils.  Cover  and  boil  three  minutes. 
Remove  cover  and  boil  until  it  crackles  in  cold  water.  Add  butter 
and  peanuts  (Spanish  peanuts  do  not  need  to  be  blanched,  others 
do),  stir  constantly  for  about  ten  minutes  or  until  peanuts  are 
browned.  Add  vanilla,  and  soda  dissolved  in  one-half  tablespoon 
cold  water.  Stir  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  turn  on  slightly 
buttered  marble  slab  or  agate.  Spread  thin,  and  lift  constantly  while 
cooling,  with  case  knife  or  spatula,  and  pull  to  distribute  peanuts. 
Have  everything  ready  and  near  at  hand  before  beginning. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Howland 

MAPLE  DATE  FUDGE 

1  lb.  maple  sugar  1  pint  sweet  cream 

1  lb.  light  brown  sugar  34  02 •  best  Creamery  butter 

Crush  the  maple  sugar  into  small  pieces,  place  all  ingredients 
in  kettle  and  cook  over  moderate  fire  stirring  often  to  prevent 
scorching.  Cook  until  a  spoonful  dropped  in  a  cup  of  cold  water 
will  form  a  soft  ball.  Remove  kettle  from  stove  and  let  stand  for 
five  minutes,  then  add  six  ounces  of  cut  up  dates  and  beat  until  it 
is  thick  and  creamy.  Pour  into  tin  to  depth  of  about  three-quar¬ 
ters  of  an  inch  and  mark  off  into  squares.  Very  nice. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  FUDGE 
Cook  together  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
peanut  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  until  it  forms  soft  ball  in  cold 
water,  add  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Cool  and  beat  until 
creamy.  Pour  on  buttered  tin  and  cut  in  squares  when  cold. 

FIG  CANDY 

1  cup  sugar  34  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

34  cup  water 

Do  not  stir  while  boiling.  Boil  to  amber  color.  Stir  in  cream 
of  tartar  just  before  taking  from  fire.  Open  figs  and  lay  in  buttered 
tin  and  pour  candy  over  them. 

STUFFED  DATES 

Remove  the  stones  from  a  sufficient  quantity  of  dates.  (I 
use  Dromedary  Dates,  as  they  are  so  clean  and  whole.) 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


155 


Have  ready  English  Walnut  meats  cut  in  quarters,  pecans 
cut  in  quarters,  peanuts,  marshmallows,  preserved  ginger,  peanut 
butter  rolled  into  proper  shape,  and  fondant  (if  desired).  Fill 
the  dates  with  these  different  fillings  and  roll  in  granulated  or 
powdered  sugar. 

A  good  uncooked  fondant  for  filling  the  dates  is  made  by 
taking  the  white  of  one  egg  and  stirring  into  it  all  the  confec¬ 
tioner’s  sugar  it  will  absorb.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Ada  L.  Randall,  Daytona,  Florida 

FIG  FUDGE 

3  cups  white  sugar  Butter  size  of  walnut 

%  cup  milk 

Cook  ten  minutes,  after  the  mixture  begins  to  boil.  Add  one- 
half  cup  figs  cut  fine  and  boil  three  minutes  after  the  mixture  begins 
to  boil  again. 

Pinch  of  salt,  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Remove  from  stove,  beat  three  minutes  and  turn  into  but¬ 
tered  tin.  Bertha  S.  Pasho 


BEVERAGES 

“Drink  down  all  unkindness.”  —  Shakespeare 
GRAPE  JUICE  PUNCH 

Mix  two  bottles  of  ginger  ale  with  one  of  grape  juice.  Serve 
cold.  This  is  a  delicious  drink  and  very  easy  to  prepare.  (Fruit 
may  be  added  if  wished.  Mrs.  Gale 

GRAPE  JUICE  I. 

Pick  grapes  from  stem  and  wash,  cover  them  with  water  and 
cook  to  mush,  drain  in  cheese-cloth  bag  over  night.  To  one  quart 
juice  add  one  and  one-half  pints  sugar,  bring  to  a  good  boil  and 
seal  hot.  Dilute  with  water  when  serving. 

Hannah  Chandler 

GRAPE  JUICE  II. 

Use  Concord  grapes  and  to  each  quart  of  grapes,  picked  from 
stems  and  washed,  use  one  quart  of  water.  Simmer  for  two  hours 
(not  boil).  Then  strain  through  a  cloth  and  to  each  quart  of  juice, 
add  one  and  one-quarter  cups  of  sugar  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Then  bottle  and  seal.  Mrs.  Ann  E.  Baker 


156 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


RASPBERRY  PUNCH 

Juice  2  lemons  2  cups  raspberries 

2  cups  currants 

Strain.  Do  not  remove  pulp  from  cloth,  and  place  in  another 
dish.  Over  this  pour  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  To  this  add  two 
cups  of  sugar  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Allow  to  cool  thor¬ 
oughly  before  adding  the  juice  and  three  cups  of  tea. 

It  may  be  that  more  water  could  be  added,  but  the  melting- 
ice  dilutes  it.  Canned  raspberries  and  currant  jelly  heated  and 
diluted  with  water  may  be  used  instead  of  fresh  raspberries. 

Mrs.  Dinsmore 

UNCOOKED  GRAPE  JUICE 

Two  cups  of  Concord  grapes.  Pick  from  the  stem,  put  them 
into  a  quart  preserving  jar,  then  sprinkle  with  one-half  cup  of 
white  granulated  sugar.  Fill  the  jar  with  boiling  water  and  seal 
tight.  Let  stand  three  months  before  opening.  This  is  delicious 
and  far  superior  to  cooked  grape  juice. 

Carrie  Fisher  Cole 
ICED  GINGER  TEA 

1  qt.  boiling  water  1  bottle  ginger  ale 

2  tablespoons  Orange  Pekoe  tea  1  cup  sugar 

Pour  boiling  water  on  tea  leaves,  let  steep  five  minutes, 
strain;  add  sugar  and  set  on  ice  to  cool.  Just  before  serving  add 
bottle  of  ginger  ale.  Marion  French 

LEMON  ORANGEADE 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  cup  sugar  and  one  pint  water  boiled 
together  fifteen  minutes.  Let  cool  and  add  strained  juice  of  three 
lemons  and  four  oranges.  Wash  an  orange  and  wipe  dry  with 
cloth.  Slice  in  thin  slices;  remove  seeds  and  add  to  syrup,  add 
cracked  ice,  water  to  taste  and  one-quarter  cup  of  Maraschino 
cherries.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Fletcher 

GINGER  PUNCH 

Chop  one-half  pound  of  candied  ginger;  add  four  cups  water, 
one  cup  sugar;  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Cool  and  add  the  juice  of 
three  oranges  and  two  lemons.  Strain,  cool  and  serve  with  cracked 
ice.  Mrs.  Fletcher 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

1  pint  lemon  juice  1  pint  grape  juice 

1  pint  pineapple  syrup  10  quarts  water 

1  pint  raspberry  syrup  Sweeten  to  taste. 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


157 


Serve  with  thin  slices  of  orange  and  banana  floating  in  bowl. 
If  desired,  one  quart  of  rather  strong  tea  or  one  quart  of  ginger 
ale  may  be  used  in  place  of  one  quart  of  water. 

Josephine  M.  Ockington 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR 

Pour  over  two  quarts  of  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar,  one  quart 
of  vinegar.  Let  it  stand  twenty -four  hours.  Strain  and  pour 
liquor  over  fresh  fruit  and  let  it  stand  the  same  way. 

Allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice,  put  into  stone  jar 
and  set  in  pot  of  boiling  water  one  hour.  Skim  well  and  put  into 
bottles;  cork  and  seal  tight.  Diluted  with  water  this  makes  a  very 
nice  drink  for  anyone  sick.  Mrs.  W.  H.  Mitchell 

SOUTH  AMERICAN  CHOCOLATE 

Melt  one-half  pound  (one  cake)  sweet  chocolate  over  hot 
water,  add  slowly  one  cup  of  strong,  hot  coffee  and  boil  one  min¬ 
ute;  add  to  six  cups  of  scalded  milk,  beat  until  a  thick  froth  forms 
on  top  and  leave  over  hot  water  ten  minutes. 

Serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored,  or  chill 
and  serve  in  tall  glasses  with  cracked  ice. 

Mrs.  Dinsmore 
RASPBERRY  COCKTAIL 

6  tablespoons  raspberry  juice  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

4  tablespoons  orange  juice  3  tablespoons  sugar 

Put  raspberry  juice  and  sugar  into  sauce  pan,  cook  three 
minutes,  chill,  add  orange  and  lemon  juice  and  mix  well.  Serve 
with  crushed  ice.  Mrs.  R.  J.  Hartford 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL 

To  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  orange  add  a  cupful  of  grape 
juice  and  one  of  ice  water.  Sweeten  and  serve  in  cocktail  glasses. 

Miss  G.  E.  Gardner 


FROZEN  DAINTIES 

MAPLE  MOULD 

One  envelope  granulated  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water,  one 
cup  boiling  maple  syrup,  one-half  pint  cream  beaten  stiff  and 
added  to  syrup  after  it  has  been  cooled  by  setting  dish  in  pan  of 
cold  water.  Pack  in  mould  set  in  pail  of  ice  and  salt,  tightly  cover 
and  stand  three  hours.  Dr.  Bray 


158 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


TUTTI-FRUTTI  WATER  ICE 
Mix  together: 

}/2  cup  lemon  juice  2  cups  or  1  pt.  can  shredded 

1  cup  orange  juice  pineapple 

1  quart  water  2  cups  sugar 

Freeze.  This  mixture  may  be  made  and  allowed  to  stand 
several  hours  before  freezing. 

Mrs.  C.  Edward  Cutler,  Lowell 

MILK  SHERBET 

1  quart  milk  Juice  of  3  lemons 

1  pint  sugar  Grated  peel  of  1  lemon 

Juice  of  1  orange 

Mix,  adding  milk  last  without  stirring,  in  freezer.  Use  one- 
third  salt,  two-thirds  ice.  Remove  dasher  of  freezer,  pack  in 
solid.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Cutler 

LEMON  SHERBET 

2  lemons  1  quart  milk 

1  pint  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  vanilla,  pour  into  container,  then 
add  milk.  This  makes  two  quarts. 

Mrs.  Austin  F.  French 
PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 

1  pineapple  chopped  fine  1  tablespoon  gelatine  in 

(or  one  can)  3/2  pint  cold  water 

Juice  of  2  lemons  1  quart  boiling  water 

3  cups  sugar 

Let  cool  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Blood,  Mont  Vernon.  N.  H. 
BANANA  SHERBET 

3  bananas  1  quart  milk 

3  lemons  1  pint  sugar 

Mix  fruit  and  sugar  together,  add  milk  slowly.  Makes  about 
two  quarts.  Mrs.  Grace  M.  Taylor 

ORANGE  FRAPPE 

%  cup  sugar  3  cups  water 

1  cup  orange  juice 

Freeze.  One  measure  of  ice  to  one  of  salt  for  a  frappe  is  a 
good  rule.  Gertrude  Louise  Small 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


159 


CRANBERRY  FRAPPE 
1  quart  cranberries  2  cups  water 

Cook  eight  minutes  and  strain,  add  two  cups  sugar,  juice  of 
one  lemon,  and  freeze.  Equal  parts  salt  and  ice. 

Mrs.  Fred  L.  Roper 

PEACH  SNOW 

1  cup  cream  2  egg  whites 

1  cup  sugar  1  quart  sliced  peaches 

Add  half  the  sugar  to  the  cream,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved; 
add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Place  sliced  peaches  in  a  dish, 
sprinkle  them  with  remainder  of  sugar,  pour  on  cream  mixture  and 
serve  at  once.  The  success  of  this  depends  upon  its  being  thor¬ 
oughly  chilled  when  served.  The  cream,  eggs  and  fruit  should  be  on 
ice  two  hours  before  the  dish  is  prepared.  The  dish  must  be  sent  to 
the  table  as  quickly  as  possible,  the  snow  being  kept  on  ice  until 
needed.  Mrs.  T.  F.  Lyons 

PINEAPPLE  MOUSSE 

1  cup  pineapple  chopped  fine  Whites  of  2  eggs 

Yl  pint  cream 

Sweeten  to  taste,  put  pulverized  sugar  into  pineapple  juice. 
Whip  cream,  sweeten  and  when  thick,  beat  eggs  together,  put  in 
sweetening  and  pineapple.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  or  four 
hours  in  ice  cream  freezer,  covering  well  and  using  plenty  of  salt. 

Harriet  Palmer  Osgood 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM 

4  cups  water  1  can  grated  pineapple 

2  cups  sugar  Boil  twenty  minutes 

When  cold,  freeze  to  mush,  using  three  parts  ice  to  one  of  salt. 
When  frozen,  remove  dasher  and  fold  in  one-half  pint  jar  heavy 
cream  beaten  stiff.  Let  stand  at  least  one  hour  before  using. 

Olivia  Tolman 

MAPLE  ICE  CREAM 

1  pint  milk  1  pint  maple  syrup 

1  pint  cream  4  eggs 

1  teaspoon  flour 

Cook  milk,  yolks  of  eggs  and  flour  like  custard.  Add  hot 
syrup.  When  cold,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Freeze  as 
usuap  Mrs.  J.  C.  Angus 


160 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


ORANGE  DELICIOUS 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk  or  thin  cream 

1  cup  water  Yolks  2  eggs 

2  cups  orange  juice  1  cup  thick  cream 

Boil  sugar  and  water  for  eight  minutes,  cool,  then  add  orange 
juice.  Scald  milk,  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  like  custard.  Cool.  Add  to  first  mixture  with  heavy 
cream  beaten  stiff.  Freeze  as  usual.  Dr.  Barker 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM 
1  quart  cream  1  Y  cups  sugar 

\Y  cups  milk  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Y  cup  ground  coffee  added  to  Yolks  4  eggs 

milk  and  boiled,  then  strain.  Miss  Austin 

MAPLE  PARFAIT 

4  eggs  1  cup  hot  maple  syrup 

1  pint  thick  cream 

Beat  eggs  light  and  pour  syrup  over  them.  Cook  until  it 
thickens.  Cool.  Add  cream  beaten  stiff.  Freeze. 

Miss  Austin 

PEANUT  BRITTLE  CREAM 
1  lb.  peanut  brittle  put  through  1  pint  cream  whipped  stiff 
food  chopper  Y2  cup  sugar 

Y2  lb.  marshmallows  cut  in  quarters  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  and  let  stand  one  hour  or  more.  Serve  in  sherbet  glasses. 

Mrs.  H.  G.  Blood,  Mont  Vernon,  N.  H. 

BANANA  DAINTY 

Dissolve  one  package  of  orange  or  lemon  Jello  according  to 
directions.  In  another  pan,  boil  one  cup  sugar  with  one-quarter 
cup  water  until  it  threads.  Have  ready  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Beat  in  the  syrup  and  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 
When  Jello  begins  to  set,  beat  in  egg  mixture  and  six  mashed 
bananas;  chill  and  serve.  Mrs.  Dinsmore 

FROZEN  PEACHES 

Rub  one  quart  of  ripe  peaches  through  a  sieve,  add  two  cups 
of  sugar,  four  cups  water,  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  When  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  freeze.  When  partly  frozen,  add  the  whipped 
whites  of  two  eggs  or  one-half  pint  of  cream,  continue  freezing. 

Mrs.  D.  L.  Page 


The  Home-Maker's  Cookbook 


161 


CHOCOLATE  SYRUP 

Melt  two  squares  of  chocolate  over  boiling  water;  add  two- 
thirds  cup  sugar  and  few  grains  salt.  Stir  until  smooth.  Boil 
five  minutes,  cool,  turn  into  a  jar  and  keep  in  ice  box  or  cold  place. 
Four  times  this  amount  may  be  made  and  kept  on  hand  to  be  used 
with  hot  or  iced  milk.  Mrs.  Dinsmore 

PINEAPPLE  AND  MARSHMALLOW  CREAM 
Into  sherbet  glasses  cut  three  or  four  marshmallows  in  small 
pieces.  Over  them  pour  a  little  juice  from  a  can  of  pineapple, 
together  with  a  slice  of  the  fruit  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  let  stand 
a  short  time.  When  ready  to  serve,  cover  all  with  whipped  cream 
and  decorate  with  chopped  nuts  and  candied  cherries. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Lyle 

COFFEE  MOUSSE 

1  pint  thick  cream  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  coffee 

Whip  cream,  then  add  sugar  and  coffee.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt 
for  three  hours.  Do  not  stir. 

Mrs.  E.  T.  Bowen,  Laconia,  N.  H. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

13^2  cups  thick  maple  syrup  Y2  pint  cream  whipped 

1  tablespoon  powdered  gelatine  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold  water,  add  boiling 
syrup.  When  congealing  whip  and  add  whipped  cream.  Put  into 
mould,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  (three  to  one)  for  four  hours. 

Serve  with  cheese  crackers.  Mrs.  F.  W.  Garland 


INVALID  COOKERY 


“Neatness  comes  first.  Be  thy  spare  table  bright 
With  shining  dishes  and  with  napkins  white. 

Nor  shun  the  bowl  of  foaming  milk  that  feeds 
The  infant  and  may  serve  the  senior’s  needs.” 

OATMEAL  GRUEL 

1  quart  water  3  tablespoons  oatmeal 

Yl  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  the  water  and  into  it  stir  the  oatmeal;  boil  until  it  thick¬ 
ens,  stirring  constantly.  Then  put  into  a  double  boiler  and  let 
cook  two  or  three  hours.  Add  salt,  strain;  thin  with  rich  milk. 

INDIAN  GRUEL 

1  quart  water  1  heaping  tablespoon  corn 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  meal 

Combine  and  cook  as  in  receipt  for  Oatmeal  Gruel. 

ARROWROOT  GRUEL 

2  teaspoons  arrowroot  1  pint  milk  or  water 

Mix  arrowroot  in  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  milk  or  water;  stir 
in  arrowroot  and  boil  until  thickened  and  clear,  stirring  con¬ 
stantly.  Add  salt  or  sugar  as  desired. 

CRUST  COFFEE 

Break  slices  of  toasted  bread  into  small  pieces.  Cover  with 
hot  water,  using  two  cups  of  water  to  one  cup  of  crumbs.  Cook 
very  slowly,  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  and  serve  with  milk  and  sugar. 
Especially  good  made  of  brown  bread. 

TOAST 

Use  stale  bread  sliced  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick  and  well 
browned  on  both  sides.  Moisten  with  hot  water,  then  butter,  or 
moisten  with  hot  milk,  with  a  bit  of  salt. 

MILK  SAUCE  FOR  TOAST 

2  cups  of  milk  or  cream  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  teaspoon  butter  Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler,  melt  butter  in  sauce-pan,  add 
flour,  stir  until  smooth,  add  hot  milk  gradually,  stirring  until 
smooth.  Pour  over  slices  of  well  toasted  bread. 

PINK  TOAST 

Put  three  tablespoons  butter  into  a  sauce-pan;  when  bubbling 
add  three  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookohok 


163 


stir  in  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  of  tomatoes  stewed  and 
strained  and  in  which  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Add  one-half  cup  scalded  milk.  Pour  over  slices  of  toast  and 
serve  at  once.  Mrs.  Anthony  Kelley 

CLAM  BROTH 

6  large  clams  (in  shell)  1  cup  water 

Wash  the  clams  thoroughly  with  a  brush  and  place  them  with 
the  water,  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire.  As  soon  as  the  shells  open  the 
broth  is  done.  Strain  through  muslin  and  serve.  Very  easily  re¬ 
tained  and  often  very  appetizing  for  an  invalid. 

CLAM  SOUP 

Yz  cup  milk  Yl  clam  broth 

Yi  tablespoon  butter  Yl  tablespoon  flour 

Scald  the  milk;  heat  the  clam  broth.  Melt  the  butter;  when 
hot  and  bubbling,  stir  in  the  flour  and  pour  on  slowly  the  hot  clam 
broth.  Cook  for  five  minutes,  then  add  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  The  soft  part  of  clam  may  be  added  if  desired. 

BEEF  TEA 

Take  a  pound  of  the  juicy  round  of  beef  steak.  Cut  into  thin 
strips  an  inch  long,  put  into  a  sauce-pan  and  first  cover  with  cold 
water.  Put  on  stove  where  it  will  heat  gradually;  when  it  comes  to 
a  boil  let  boil  slowly  five  minutes. 

Or 

Put  the  meat  into  a  glass  jar,  covering  meat  with  cold  water. 
Place  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  with  a  rack  or  thin  piece  of 
wood  to  hold  jar  above  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  Let  the  whole 
heat  slowly  and  be  kept  hot  until  the  juice  of  the  meat  is  extracted. 
Pour  off  and  cool.  Remove  all  fat,  keep  in  a  cold  place,  using  as 
needed.  Flavor  with  salt,  or  lemon  juice  or  cream.  A  well  beaten 
egg  may  be  added  to  one  cup  of  tea.  This  tea  may  be  served  cold 
or  hot.  If  reheated,  bring  to  boiling  point  but  do  not  allow  it  to 
boil.  Amy  F.  Coggin 

LAMB  BROTH 

2  lbs.  neck  of  lamb  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  cold  water 

Clean  meat  thoroughly;  remove  skin  and  fat.  Cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces  and  hack  or  separate  the;  bones.  Put  bones  and 
meat  into  a  sauce-pan,  add  cold  water,  let  stand  one  hour;  then 
heat  gradually  and  cook  below  the  boiling  point  for  two  hours. 
Strain  through  a  coarse  sieve  that  the  reddish  brown  particles  of 


164 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


albuminous  matter  may  not  be  lost.  Remove  all  fat  before  serv¬ 
ing.  Cool,  remove  fat  and  reheat  or  remove  fat  from  hot  broth 
by  using  tissue  paper.  Boiled  rice  may  be  added,  if  allowed  the 
patient. 

CHICKEN  BROTH 

A  fowl  will  make  a  more  nutritious  broth  than  a  young  chick¬ 
en.  Skin,  cut  it  up  and  break  the  bones  with  a  mallet.  Cover 
well  with  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  for  three  or  four  hours.  Strain, 
remove  fat,  add  salt.  A  little  rice  may  be  boiled  with  it,  if  desired. 

EGG  MILK  SHAKE 

1  egg  Milk  to  fill  glass 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Flavoring,  nutmeg  or  vanilla 

Beat  white  and  yolk  of  egg  separately  and  then  together;  add 
sugar,  flavoring  and  milk.  Stir  or  shake  well.  Pour  into  tumbler 
and  serve. 

BOILED  CUSTARD 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  2  eggs  or  yolks  of  3  eggs 

34  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  the  milk  to  heat  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs  thor¬ 
oughly  with  the  sugar,  add  milk,  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  the  custard  coats  the  spoon,  no  longer.  Stir  to  prevent  cook¬ 
ing  unevenly.  If  the  custard  curdles,  place  the  upper  part  of  the 
boiler  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  beat  until  smooth. 

If  desired,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  may  be  beaten  separately 
and  added  to  the  custard  after  it  is  cold. 

CUP  CUSTARD 
1  pint  milk  2  eggs 

34  CUP  sugar  34  teaspoon  salt 

Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla.  Bake  in  oven  slowly.  Fill 
custard  cups,  place  them  in  a  shallow  dish  of  hot  water,  put  in 
oven  and  bake. 

IRISH  MOSS  BLANC  MANGE 
4  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

34  cup  Irish  moss  34  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  moss  very  carefully  in  cold  water  and  add  to  the  cold 
milk.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  about  twenty  minutes 
or  until  it  thickens  if  dropped  on  a  cold  plate.  Strain,  add  salt  and 
vanilla,  turn  into  moulds.  Serve  with  sugar  and  thin  cream. 

M.  E.  Marshall 


RULES  CONTRIBUTED  BY  GENTLEMEN 


FRIED  OYSTERS  OR  SCALLOPS 

To  insure  either  being  full  size  or  delicate  when  cooked,  they 
must  be  absolutely  fresh;  this  is  particularly  true  of  scallops,  as 
they  tend  to  shrink  and  toughen  after  a  few  hours  out  of  water. 

Receipt: —  Prepare  a  plate  of  dry  bread  or  cracker  crumbs. 
For  one  pint  of  fish,  make  batter  of  one  egg  well  beaten,  add  pinch 
of  salt  and  small  dash  of  pepper.  Cover  the  fish  with  the  batter  in 
shallow  dish,  remove  and  roll  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  buttered  pan 
or  deep  lard. 

Serve  with  tartar  sauce.  D.  W.  Wright 

OYSTER  STEW 

Select  fine  large  oysters,  place  in  stew  pan,  in  their  own  liquor, 
add  to  one  pint  of  oysters,  a  small  cup  of  water  and  one-half  tea¬ 
spoon  of  salt,  set  over  fire  and  as  boiling  point  is  near,  skim  well, 
keep  hot  but  do  not  boil  and  add  butter  size  of  an  egg.  When 
butter  is  melted,  apply  more  heat  and  add  one  quart  of  milk;  just 
before  stew  boils,  remove  from  fire  and  serve.  Fresh  milk  added 
when  stew  is  just  below  boiling  point  will  not  curdle,  but  to  have 
the  flavor  right,  oyster  stew  must  never  boil.  D.  W.  W. 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

Slice  eight  good  sized  potatoes  and  two  onions,  cover  with  hot 
water.  Cook  until  tender,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  then 
remove  the  stomachs  from  a  quart  of  clams  and  lay  the  clams  on 
top.  Do  not  stir  the  clams  in.  Be  sure  the  potato  and  onion  is 
boiling  hot.  Steam  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  add  a  quart  of 
hot  milk.  Add  more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed  and  as  much  butter 
as  your  conscience  will  allow.  Arthur  C.  Tingley 

CREAM  OF  TARTAR  BISCUITS 
3  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 

1  teaspoon  soda,  small  sifted  in  flour  two  or  three 

3/2  teaspoon  salt  times 

Work  in  tablespoon  lard,  mix  with  water,  stiff  enough  to  roll. 
Bake  in  hot  oven.  Frank  G.  Gulliland 

DROP  CAKES 

%  cup  shortening  %} V2  cups  pastry  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda  (in  milk) 

%  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 

2  eggS  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 


166 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Drop  a  dessert  spoonful  on  a  well  greased  pan  a  little  way 
apart.  Before  baking,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar  and  cinnamon  on 
top.  If  baked  in  a  hot  oven,  they  will  be  light  and  fluffy. 

Albert  H.  Leet 

Cook  for  many  years  at  U.  S.  L.  S.  S.  Plum  Island 
MINISTER’S  MUFFINS 

cups#flour  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 

cup  sugar  powder 

t  egg 

Three-quarters  cup  milk,  or  enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  Mix  dry 
ingredients,  then  add  liquid.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Rev.  Henry  B.  Mason 

CHEESE  PASTE 

Cream  cheese,  horseradish,  salt,  pepper,  moistened  with  a 
little  vinegar. 

COCOANUT  PYRAMIDS 

2  egg  whites  1  lb.  cocoanut  (shredded) 

Powdered  sugar 

Beat  Whites  very  stiff,  add  sugar,  then  cocoanut;  form  into 
pyramids;  bake  golden  brown. 

SARDINE  A  LA  TOAST 

Cut  up  toast  in  fingers  the  size  of  sardines  and  butter  well. 
Fry  sardines  in  butter,  place  on  toast  and  serve  hot. 

A  CREOLE  LUNCHEON  DISH 
1  cup  boiled  rice  2  cups  tomato 

1  cup  chopped  onion  fried  in  butter  —  do  not  burn  or  brown 

1  cup  new  cheese  sliced  quite  thin 

Put  all  together,  except  the  cheese,  well  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  cook  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a 
platter  and  while  hot  spread  the  cheese  over  it  and  then  place 
it  in  the  oven,  allowing  it  to  remain  there  until  the  cheese  is  well 
melted.  Serve  hot  with  toast  or  warm  bread.  No  meat  in  any 
form  or  vegetables  will  be  required.  H.  K.  S. 

24-HOUR  DESSERT 

Take  thirty  marshmallows  cut  up  fine,  one-half  pound  peanut 
brittle  candy  broken  very  fine.  Mix  with  one-half  pint  whipping 
cream  already  whipped.  Put  into  bowl  from  which  to  serve  and 
put  on  ice  for  twenty-four  hours.  Then  serve  with  plain  cream. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


167 


FIG  SALAD 

Stuff  pulled  figs  with  Blue  Ribbbon  Cream  cheese  mixed  with 
salted  almonds.  Place  on  lettuce  and  serve  with  French  dressing, 
cold. 

SCOTCH  SHORT  BREAD 

1  cup  sugar  1  4  cups  flour 

2  cups  butter  }  cream  Pinch  salt 

Roll  one-quarter  inch  thick  and  bake.  Use  hands  to  mix  for 
better  results.  Donald  E.  Leslie,  Clinton,  la. 

CRACKER  DRESSING  FOR  TURKEY  OR  CHICKEN 
1  lb.  common  crackers  rolled  fine  1  medium  onion  cut  fine 
1  large  slice  fat  pork  cut  fine  1  egg 

Salt,  pepper,  Bell’s  Dressing  to  suit  taste 
Mix  with  milk  to  proper  consistency.  If  meat  grinder  is 
handy,  put  crackers,  pork  and  onion  through  same. 

George  K.  James 


ONION  GRAVY 

2  or  3  onions  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  tablespoon  butter 

Cover  onions  after  slicing,  with  water  and  cook  until  tender. 
Add  milk.  Mix  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  stir  in  with  the  lump 
of  butter.  Season  to  taste.  This  is  sufficient  for  a  family  of  four 
or  five  and  goes  good  with  baked  potatoes.  G.  F.  Camp 

MY  MOTHER’S  PICCALILLI 
Chop  or  slice  one  peck  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  one-half  cup 
salt  over  them  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  Pour  off  brine,  add 
two  quarts  vinegar,  one  quart  sugar,  one-half  pint  white  mustard 
seed,  three  tablespoons  ground  pepper,  two  of  salt,  one  of  clove, 
one  of  cinnamon,  one  of  whole  allspice,  one-half  dozen  chopped 
peppers,  three  onions.  Mix  well  together  and  stew  until  soft. 

William  H.  Lee 

WESTERN  SANDWICH 

Beat  one  egg.  Add  small  amount  of  chopped  ham  and  onion. 
Mix  together  and  turn  into  a  small  buttered  frying  pan;  brown 
on  both  sides,  then  place  between  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  thin 
layer  of  mustard,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Andrew  Nichols,  M.  D. 


168 


The  Home-Maker9 s  Cookbook 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

1  lb.  sugar  34  lb.  honey 

34  lb.  corn  syrup  34  pint  cream 

34  lb.  chocolate 

Cook  over  slow  fire  to  a  soft  ball.  Let  it  cool  before  stirring 
to  grain  it;  if  you  stir  it  hot,  it  grains  coarse;  the  colder  it  is  stirred, 
the  finer  the  grain.  If  you  wish  to  add  nuts,  do  it  while  stirring. 

If  you  have  no  corn  syrup,  honey  will  take  the  place  of  it. 
Stir  while  cooking  so  it  will  not  burn. 

D.  L.  Page,  M.  D.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

PERFECT  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  34  cup  milk 

3  eggs  134  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  level  teaspoons  baking  pow- 

34  cup  butter  der 

Little  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  beat  egg  yolks  and  sugar 

thoroughly,  add  the  creamed  butter,  stir  until  very  light;  add 
melted  chocolate,  then  milk  and  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  last  with  vanilla. 

George  A.  Marshall 

BUTTER  SCOTCH 

6  lbs.  sugar  3  pints  water 

Melt  and  strain,  kill  one  level  spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  tone 
320,  and  stir  in  one-half  pound  butter.  Turn  into  buttered  pans 
and  mark  with  knife  when  cool  enough.  H.  L.  Kennedy 

COCOANUT  CAKE 

1  oz.  glucose  1  lb.  grated  cocoanut 

1  lb.  sugar  White  of  1  egg 

Mix  well,  boil  thirty  minutes,  let  stand  until  cold  and  form 
in  balls  and  bake  on  buttered  pans.  H.  L.  K. 

LASSES  CANDY 

2  cups  molasses  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

1  cup  sugar  Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

Boil  briskly  and  constantly  twenty  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
time.  When  cool  enough  to  pull,  do  it  quickly  and  it  will  come 
white  rapidly.  Very  nice. 


Dr.  Cummings,  Brattleboro,  Vt. 


The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


169 


MACAROONS 

1  lb.  almond  paste  1  lb.  sugar 

Egg  whites  enough  to  mix  well.  Shape  in  balls  and  bake  on 
buttered  pans.  H.  L.  K. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM 
12  quarts  cream  6  lbs.  sugar 

4  oz.  vanilla 


GRAPE-NUT  ICE  CREAM 

Is  made  by  adding  grape-nut  as  thick  as  you  wish  to  the  Va¬ 
nilla  Ice  Cream  just  before  it  hardens.  H.  L.  K. 


COUGH  MEDICINE 
oz.  hoarhound  1 

oz.  thoroughwort 


whole  flaxseed 
oz.  slippery  elm 


(Unexcelled) 
oz.  black  stick  licorice 
lb.  loaf  sugar 
pt.  best  molasses 
lemons 

Steep  all  the  herbs  together  until  the  goodness  is  thoroughly 
extracted,  then  strain  and  add  licorice,  molasses  and  sugar;  boil 
down  to  syrup.  When  cool  add  lemons.  James  Chandler 


EGGS 


OMELET 

Six  eggs,  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  yolks  well  beaten,  one 
teacup  of  warm  milk  with  teaspoon  butter  melted  in  it,  one  table¬ 
spoon  flour  wet  to  a  paste  with  milk.  Add  to  the  cup  of  milk,  one 
teaspoon  salt.  Mix  all  except  the  whites  and  add  them  last.  Cook 
immediately  about  ten  minutes,  then  fold  over  like  a  turnover. 

A  piece  of  butter  should  be  put  into  frying  pan  in  which  omelet 
is  cooked.  I  cook  on  top  of  stove  about  five  minutes  and  finish  in 
oven.  Mrs.  V.  E.  Darling 

EGGS  AU  GRATIN 

6  eggs  1  tablespoon  flour  (heaping) 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  milk 

teaspoon  salt  A  little  pepper  or  paprika 

Mix  butter  and  flour,  then  stir  into  boiling  milk,  and  cook 
until  thick.  Break  eggs  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  sauce  over  them  and 
cover  with  one-half  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Bake  until  brown. 

H.  G.  Lee 

SCALLOPED  EGGS 

Boil  six  eggs  hard,  remove  shells,  cut  in  circles,  not  too  thin. 
Put  in  baking-dish,  and  cover  with  milk  gravy  made  of  one  pint  of 
milk,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  flour.  Sprinkle  tops  with  cracker 
crumbs  and  bake  one-half  hour.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Miller 

STUFFED  EGGS 

1  dozen  boiled  eggs  34  teaspoon  salt 

34  teaspoon  pepper  34  CUP  salad  dressing 

Cut  eggs  in  half,  remove  yolks,  mix  with  the  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  salad  dressing.  Stuff  the  whites  with  mixture,  sprinkle 
paprika  over  them.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Serve  cold. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Gulliland 

EGG  OMELET 

Four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  four  table¬ 
spoons  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Add  to  beaten  yolks. 
Scald  one  cup  milk,  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  but¬ 
ter,  then  stir  all  together,  adding  whites  last.  Cook  slowly. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Norris 


The  Home-Maker  s 


Cookbook 


171 


I  > 

m  7  TT  liJT  7 


172 


27ie  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook 


V 


. 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


11 


■ 


176 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


v 


. 


* 


% 


178 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


* 


TO  OUR  ADVERTISERS 


The  members  of  the  Cook  Book  Committee  gratefully  acknowl¬ 
edge  the  valuable  assistance  rendered  them  by  the  business  firms 
who  have  so  kindly  patronized  the  “advertising  department.” 
We  would  say  that  in  so  doing  they  have  contributed  greatly  to 
our  Organ  Fund,  as  all  the  profit  from  advertising  and  the  sale  of 
the  book  goes  into  that  fund. 

We  have  learned  many  lessons  we  needed  to  know,  and  we  feel 
confident  that  our  sympathies,  especially  for  the  adhesive  book 
agent,  have  been  greatly  expanded.  This  being  our  first  experience 
along  this  line,  we  undoubtedly  have  made  mistakes,  but  even  in 
these  we  are  not  without  hope  of  being  examples  to  our  successors. 
After  thanking  all  our  helpers  and  looking  forward  with  pleasure 
to  the  years  of  increased  prosperity  for  all  these  business  men  and 
women,  as  well  as  the  thousands  of  families  made  happier  as  the 
certain  result  of  the  use  of  “The  Home-Maker’s  Cookbook,”  we 
are 

Gratefully  yours, 

The  Cook  Book  Committee 
By  Lizzie  R.  Tingle y 


Thanks  are  given  to  the  many  friends 
who  so  kindly  contributed  to  make  this 
book  a  success,  but  who  did  not  wish  to 
have  their  names  appear. 


FIRE  INSURANCE  AGENCY 

J.  L.  FLEMING 


Represents  in  Tewksbury  the  following  Companies 


BOSTON 

LONDON  &  LANCASHIRE 

PENNSYLVANIA 

NEW  YORK  UNDERWRITERS 


MERRIMACK  MUTUAL 
DORCHESTER  MUTUAL 
TRADERS  8c  MECHANICS 
HOLYOKE  MUTUAL 


FRASER’S  MEN’S  SHOP 

MIDDLESEX  &  GORHAM  STREETS,  LOWELL,  MASS. 

WHERE  YOU  MAY  SELECT  FROM  A  STOCK  OF  STANDARD 
QUALITY  GOODS.  FAIRLY  PRICED 


“Morse”  Made  Suits  “Tripletoe”  and  “Shawknit”  Hosiery 

“Lamson  &  Hubbard”  Hats  Square  “C”  Sweaters 

“Carter’s”  and  “Cooper’s”  Underwear  “Arrow”  Shirts  and  Collars 

“Brownknit”  Wool  Hosiery  “Wearplus”  Neckwear 

The  Home  of  “SWEET-ORR”  Work  Clothes.  SERVICE  and  SATISFACTION 


DOWS  GRIP-COLD  TABLETS  FOR  FEVER  AND  COLDS 
DOWS  EXPECTORANT  FOR  HARD  TIGHT  COLDS 
DOWS  CORN  PLASTERS  REMOVE  ALL  CORNS 
DOWS  DIARRHOEA  SYRUP  FOR  ALL  SUMMER  ILLS 
(All  sold  under  a  guarantee) 

Did  you  get  our  catalogue  on 
Dahlias  and  Gladioli ? 

FAIRBURN  BUILDING 
ON  THE  SQUARE 


SERVICE 

Tewksbury  Meat  Market 
Choice  Meats 

A.  Tremblay 

Proprietor 


Free  Del  ivery 


ICE  CREAM 

for 

PARTIES 


JBailep’S 

THE  PRESCRIPTION  STORE  OF  LOWELL 


Your  Health  is  the  Most  Important  Factor  in  Life 
Reliability  —  Accuracy  —  Promptness 


A  Complete  Line  of  Drugs  and  Chemicals 
No  Candy  —  No  Soda  —  No  Cigars 
A  REAL  DRUG  STORE 

F.  &  E.  BAILEY  &  COMPANY 

79  Merrimack  Street  19  John  Street  Lowell,  Mass. 
John  F  Walsh,  Reg.  Ph.,  Mgr. 


FOR  BEST  VALUES  ALWAYS  COME  TO 


92-100  MERRIMACK  STREET  45-49  MIDDLE  STREET 
LOWELL,  MASSACHUSETTS 


DANIEL  H.  WALKER 

GENERAL  CONTRACTOR 

17  Thorndike  Street  Lowell,  Mass. 


Housewives  Who  Know 
Insist  on  Oven  Heat  Regulation 

The  old  coal  range  is  rapidly  passing  away. 

And  in  its  place  is  appearing  the  Modern 
Gas  Range  with  its  Oven  Heat  Regulation. 

It  is  making  happy  kitchens  for  the  house¬ 
wife  who  spends  a  great  deal  of  time  in  that 
part  of  the  home. 

Lowell  Gas  Light  Companj 

Appliance  Store 

73  Merrimack  Street  Lowell,  Mass. 

Phone  349 


L.  A.  DERBY  &  COMPANY 

Electrical  Contractors 

58-64  Middle  Street  Lowell,  Massachusetts 

Telephones  3096 — 3097 

FAIRBANKS-MORSE  ELECTRIC  PUMPS 
GASOLINE  ENGINES 
MOTORS 

HOME  WATER  SYSTEMS  and  LIGHTING  PLANTS 


□ 

Fred.  C.  Church  &  Co. 

Compliments  of 
A  Friend 

Insurance 

a 

53  Central  St.  141  Milk  St. 

Lowell,  Mass.  Boston,  Mass. 

J.  K.  Chandler  &  Sons 
florists 

a 

Growers  of  Chrysanthemums 
Sweet  Peas  and  Marguerites. 
We  are  also  large  growers  of 
Begonias,  Geraniums  and 
many  other  Bedding  Plants 

Compliments  of 
F.  M.  Bill  &  Co. 

TEWKSBURY,  MASS. 

Telephone  Lowell  4249-R 

□ 

DANAS  BROS. 

Quality  Market 

The  Cleanest  and  The  Best 
Candy  Store  in  the  City. 

62-66  Gorham  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 
Tel.  177 

Compliments  of 

A  FRIEND 

BARTLETT  &  DOW 
COMPANY 

Established  1832 

Hardware,  Mill  Supplies,  Seeds, 
and  Paint 

216  Central  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

N.  D.  LAFLEUR 
Hardware  Paints 

Milk-Men’s  Supplies 

Ask  for  Phoenix  Ready  Mixed 
Paint.  It  stands  the  test. 
11E.  Merrimack  St. 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Tel.  550-551 

BENNETT  BROS.  COMPANY 

41-51  Payne  St., 

Lowell,  Mass. 

W.  J.  HOARE 

Dealer  in  all  kinds  of 

Fresh  Fish,  Oysters,  Clams, 
Lobsters,  Etc. 

461  Lawrence  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 
Tel.  863 

Diamonds,  Watches,  Fine 
Jewelry,  Silverware 
HARRIETT  W.  HAMBLETT 

9  Central  St. 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Rooms  206-208,  Wyman’s  Ex. 
Bldg. 

FRANK  M.  HADLEY 

Successor  to 

Charles  Wheeler  and  Andrews  & 
Wheeler 

Fine  Monumental  Work 

341  Thorndike  St.,  Davis  Square 
Lowell,  Mass. 

North  Tewksbury  Garage 
WM.  IRVIN  BAILEY,  Prop. 

Authorized  Ford  Service 

Automobile  Repairing 

Tel.  Connection 

Make  Your  House  a  Home 


The  house  of  light  is  one  where 
electricity  is  the  illuminant. 
No  other  light  compares  with 
it  in  brilliance,  softness,  clean¬ 
liness  and  safety.  Free  esti¬ 
mates  cheerfully  given.  Call 
us  cn  the  telephone  today. 


FAVREAU  BROS.,  INC. 

171  Merrimack  St. 

Tel.  5711-W  Tel.  5711-W 


FAIRBURN’S  /orFOOD 

CN  THE  SQUARE 
LOWELL 

MARKET  RESTAURANT 


OUR  RECIPE 


COURTESY 

QUALITY 

SERVICE 


A  Friend 

S.  W.  A. 

J.  W.  STARK 

Ballardvale,  Mass. 

Compliments  of 

A.  F.  MOORE 

JOHN  J.  DOHERTY  &  CO. 

Manufacturers  of 

Fine  Bedding 

12  Hale  St., 

Lowell,  Mass. 

FOOD 

for 

Horses  Cows  Poultry 

J.  B.  COVER  &  CO. 

150  Middle  St., 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Go  To 

F  OFIN  HILL  NURSERY 

Chelmsford,  Mass, 
for 

Shade  and  Ornamental  Trees, 
Shrubs,  Vines,  Perennials-, 
etc. 

THE  CUNNINGHAM  STUDIO 
Photos  of  Quality 

Our  photographs  represent  the 
highest  expression  of  Studio 
Work. 

Elevator  Tel.  53807 

Hildreth  Bldg.,  Lowell 

JOHN  P.  QUINN 

Coal 

LILLIE  S.  CUTLER 

Attorney-at-Law 

174  Central  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

LITTLE  LADY  SHOPPE 

Children’s  &  Infants’  Dresses 

81  Merrimack  St., 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Opposite  Macartney’s 

A.  F.  FRENCH  &  CO. 


'Taper  Box  Manufacturers 

165  Market  Street  -  -  Lowell 

TELEPHONE 


JOHN  M.  PINARDI  TELEPHONES 

Designer  and  General  Manager  Works  835-W  Res.  835-R 

Now  is  the  proper  time  to  select  your  Monument  if  you 
want  to  be  sure  to  have  it  completed  for  Memorial  Day 

LOWELL  MONUMENT  CO. 

Original  Designers  and  Manufacturers  of 

FINE  MEMORIALS  IN  GRANITE,  MARBLE  AND  BRONZE 

1056-1062  GORHAM  STREET,  LOWELL,  MASS. 

Call  us  on  Phone  and  we  will  gladly  help  you  to  make  a  suitable  selection 


HOME  ECONOMY 

BUY  DIRECT  FOR  YOUR  PANTRY  SHELVES 

Allspice,  Alum,  Baking  Powder/Butter  Color,  Celery  Seed,  Cinnamon,  Citric 
Acid,  Cloves,  Cooking  Soda,  Corn  Starch,  Cream  Tartar,  Flavoring  Extracts, 
Ginger;  Ginger,  Powdered;  Lemon,  Mustard,  Nutmeg;  Olive  Oil.  French; 
Olive  Oil,  Italian'and  Spanish;  Orange;  Pepper,  White,  Black  and  Red;  Pep¬ 
permint,  Sage  Leaves,  Silicate  of  Soda  (Egg  Preserver),  Turmeric,  Vanilla, 
Wintergreen 

ESTABLISHED  1840 

TALBOT  DYEWOOD  AND  CHEMICAL  CO. 

38-44  MIDDLE  STREET  -  -  LOWELL,  MASSACHUSETTS 


COMPLIMENTS  OF 

GEORGE  W.  FOSTER 


Established  1870 

Patten  8c  Company 

TEWKSBURY,  MASSACHUSETTS 

Looking  backward  fifty-four  years,  we  find  very  few  green¬ 
houses.  Florist  stores  in  cities  were  seldom  seen,  a  basement 
used  jointly  by  several  concerns  being  most  popular. 

Flowers  ordered  one  day  would  be  called  for  the  next.  If  a 
florist  did  not  have  what  was  required,  it  meant  an  all  day  trip 
by  team  or  train,  to  the  few  greenhouses  then  in  existence,  to  fill 
these  orders.  Flower  designs  for  weddings  and  funerals  were 
often  made  up  on  the  train  and  delivered  when  possible.  Bou¬ 
quets  were  fearfully  and  wonderfully  made.  A  stick,  often  a 
broom  handle,  in  the  center  served  as  a  foundation.  The  flowers 
were  short  stemmed,  wired  on  sticks,  and  then  put  in  the  bou¬ 
quet.  When  made  this  required  both  hands  to  hold  it.  The 
operation  of  “building”  one  of  these  works  of  art  was  a  slow 
and  tedious  one.  The  flowers  consisted  of  camellias,  geraniums, 
heliotrope  and  other  old  fashioned  flowers,  which  today  would 
look  rather  common.  An  order  for  a  wreath  created  great  ex¬ 
citement  at  the  greenhouses.  These  were  made  by  tying  the 
flowers  on  sticks,  then  bending  the  sticks.  The  greenhouses  were 
very  small  and  dark. 

Today,  florists  have  in  their  seasons,  carnations,  roses, 
orchids,  chrysanthemums,  sweet  peas,  freesias,  bulbs  of  every 
description,  in  fact,  a  list  would  comprise  hundreds  of  distinct 
varieties  of  flowers  and  bedding  plants. 

Flowers  today  are  sent  by  express,  parcel  post,  and  are  tele¬ 
graphed  all  over  the  world. 

Millions  of  dollars  are  today  invested  in  our  industry,  that  we 
may  give  pleasure  to  others. 

“These,  these  are  arts  pursued  without  a  crime  that  leave 
no  stain  upon  the  wings  of  time.” 

“God  made  the  flowers  to  beautify 
The  earth,  and  cheer  man’s  careful  mood, 

And  he  is  happiest  who  has  power 
To  gather  wisdom  from  a  flower, 

And  wake  his  heart  in  every  hour 
To  pleasant  gratitude.” 

“SAY  IT  WITH  FLOWERS” 


Compliments  of 

FA1RGRIEVE  &  CO. 

Kate  W.  Horne 

Maude  R.  Plumstead 
Millinery  and  Gift  Shop 

Small  store — Small  expense — Small  prices 

Fifth  Floor  Central  Block 
Lowell,  Mass. 

Mrs.  Ivah  L.  Noyes 

Hand  Painted  Greeting  Cards 

Coal  Coke 

Thorndike  Coal  Company 

PERRY  D.  THOMPSON,  Treas. 
Successor  to  Wm.  E.  Livingston 
Co. 

95  Years  of  Service  and  Satis¬ 
faction 

COAL  COKE 

D.  C.  DONALDSON 

Two  Stores 

CAMERA  &  ART  SHOP 

66  Merrimack  St. 

GIFT  SHOP 

232  Merrimack  St. 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Alice  H.  Smith 

ART  NEEDLEWORK 

53  Central  St.  Central  Block 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Compliments  of 

A.  F.  ANDERSON  &  SONS 

^^LOWELL.  "mASS. 

A.  G.  Pollard  Co. 

The  Store  For  Thrifty  People 

For  more  than  Sixty-five  years  the  original 
slogan  of  this  establishment — ‘‘The  Largest 
Store — The  Most  Extensive  Stocks — The 
LOWEST  PRICES  IN  THE  CITY.” 


Has  Stood  The  Test 


Sections — Embracing  Clothing  for 
all,  also  House  Furnishings  and 
Fancy  Groceries. 


Our  Special  Sales  of  Silks — Vel¬ 
vets —  Rugs  and  Remnants  are 
well  known  all  over  this  section. 


And  the  Great  Underpriced 
Basement  is  the  most  economical 
shopping  place  in  New  England. 


All  mail  orders  intrusted  to  our  mail  order  department  will 
have  prompt  attention. 

Merrimack,  Palmer  &  Middle  Sts. 
LOWELL,  MASS. 


THE  LADIES’  SPECIALTY 
SHOP 

Corsets,  Gloves,  Neckwear, 
Infants’  Wear,  Hosiery 
Modart  Corsets  Specialty 

J.  &  L.  Barter 

141  Merrimack  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

McCORD  —  FOR 

Drugs  and  Prescriptions 

3  Registered  Druggists 

236  Merrimack  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 
Opp.  St.  Anne’s  Church 

EDWARD  T.  WILDER 

Insurance 

809  Sun  Bldg.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

Phones 

4361— Office  4136— House 

Compliments  of 

ACME  WELDING  WORKS 

16-18  Perry  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 
Phones  5142;  3175-W 

KIDDIEGRAPHS 
Wonder  Pictures  of  Children 
Moderately  Priced 

THE  MARION  STUDIO 

Fairburn  Bldg.,  Lowell,  Mass. 
Tel.  826 

HEAD  &  SHAW 

Milliners 

161  Central  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

DANIEL  GAGE 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Ice  Wood  Lumber 

TRADERS  &  MECHANICS 

INSURANCE  COMPANY 

53  Central  Street 

Lowell,  Mass. 

When  you  wish  a  satisfactory 
job  of  grading  and  planting  done, 
also  any  kind  of  trees,  shrubs  and 
ornamental  Evergreens,  it  will 
pay  you  to  call  Phone  6670, 
McMANMON’S  NURSERIES, 
and  get  stock  at  first  cost.  Fifty 
acres  to  select  from.  Expert 
advice  cheerfully  given. 

JOHN  H.  SEIFER 

Dealer  in  Watches,  Clocks  and 
Jewelry 

THE  WATCH  AND  CLOCK 
SHOP 

Room  208  Bradley  Bldg. 
Central  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

Tel.  3462 

Better  Buy 
a 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiliii 

BUICK 


B.  R.  WILLIAMS 

ArtMir  Olramtr  auit 
ilarlile  UlmortalH 

A 


Than  Wish 
You  Had 


Family  work  of  all  kinds 

f  also 

Shirts — Collars 


131?  Ml  SI. 

LOWELL,  MASS. 

Tel.  999 


DONOVAN 
HARNESS  and  AUTO 
SUPPLY  CO. 


Manufacturers  of 
and  Dealers  in 


Laundered  at 

MIDDLESEX 
Steam  Laundry 

LOWELL 

Tel.  930 

Why  Not  « Try  Us?” 


Harness,  Horse  &  Stable  Goods 
Everything  for  the  Auto 
Complete  Stock  of  Shoe  Findings 
Repairing  of  all  kinds 

109  MARKET 

and 

66  PALMER  STS. 


“A  Safe  Place  To  Trade” 


MACARTNEY'S 

72  MERRIMACK  STREET 
LOWELL,  MASS. 


DEPEND  on  the  New,  Enlarged 

Cherry  &  Webb  Co. 

Store-for  Style-Quality  and  Value 

“ Always  Something  New 99 

20  Specialized  Shops — Under  One  Roof 

The  Women’s  Coat  Shop  The  Women’s  Dress  Shop  The  Hosiery  Shop 
The  Girls’  Coat  Shops  The  Girls’  Dress  Shop  The  Shoe  Section 

The  Blouse  Shop  The  Skirt  Shop  The  Millinery  Shop 

The  Sweater  Shop  The  Leather  Goods  Shop  The  Fur  Shops 

The  Underwear  Shop  The  Corset  Shop  The  Basement  Shop 

The  Infants’  Shop  The  Suit  Shop  The  Jewelry  Shop 

The  Stylish  Stout  Shops  The  Children’s  Shop 


A  WOMAN 

and  a 

Glenwood 

Range 
Is  a  Baking 
Combination 
That  Can’t  Be 

BEATEN 

For  Sale  by  Leading  Stove  and  Furniture  Dealers  Everywhere 

Weir  Stove  Co.,  Taunton,  Mass.  Manufacturers  of  the  Celebrated  Glenwood 
Coal,  Wood  and  Gas  Ranges,  Heating  Stoves  and  Furnaces 


Gagnon  Company' 

HOME  OF  THE  GREATEST  VALUES 

Merrimack  Palmer  Middle  Streets 

LOWELL,  MASSACHUSETTS 


TWO  COMPLETE  STORES  FILLED  WITH  FRESH,  SEASONABLE 

MERCHANDISE 

Women’s  Wear  Infants’  and  Children’s  Wear  Shoes  Jewelry- 
Leather  and  Toilet  Goods  Underwear  Men’s  and  Boys’  Furnishings 


GAGNON’S  BARGAIN  ANNEX 

Everything  in  Ready-to-Wear  Merchandise  Sold  at  Least  25%  Less 

Than  Regular  Prices 


GEO.  H.  BACHELDER 

Dealer  in 

Motorcycles  and  Bicycles 

CHILDREN’S  VEHICLES 
Sundries  and  Supplies 

Lowell,  Mass. 

MOOERS’ 

Plant  and  Flower  Shoppe 

350  Stevens  St. 

27  Chauncey  Ave. 
Cut  Flowers,  Plants,  Ferns,  Etc. 
Bouquets  and  Floral  Designs 

For  All  Occasions 
Telephone  Connection 

The  largest  and  best  equipped 

Hairdressing  Shop 

North  of  Boston 

YOUNG’S 

(Est.  1881) 

Wyman’s  Exchange 

Lowell,  Mass. 

AUSTIN  F.  CALLERY 

PLASTERER 

Cement  and  Stucco  Worker 

Residence,  384  Wentworth  Ave. 
Tel.  5519-M 

Compliments  of 

FRED  L.  ROPER 

395  Woburn  St., 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Rose  Grower  Tel.  Conn. 

CAPITAL  COFFEE 

44c  lb. 

Handed  to  you  100  per  cent 

Fresh 

NICHOLS  &  CO.,  Inc. 

31  John  St.,  Lowell.  Mass. 

Compliments  of 

P.  J.  ROUX 

Tewksbury 

FLOWERS  OF  QUALITY 

For  Every  Occasion 

WHITTET’S  FLOWER  SHOP 

293  Central  St.  Tel.  110 

Lowell,  Mass. 

THE  SPORTSMAN’S  SHOP 

Lull  &  Hartford 

34  Prescott  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

M.  MARKS  CO. 

Tailors 

40  Central  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

SOLID  AS  A  ROCK 

The  Old  Lowell  National  Bank  was  doing  business  in 
Lowell  before  the  city  was  incorporated. 

It  has  passed  through  all  the  vicissitudes  of  wars,  fires, 
business  depressions,  and  has  continued  safe  and  sound. 

This  bank  is  under  the  supervision  of  the  United  States 
Government. 

Interest  in  the  Savings  Department  begins  the  first  of 
each  month. 


Old  Lowell  National  Bank 

OLDEST  BANK  IN  LOWELL 


Compliments  of 

B.  F.  Keith  &  Co. 


J.  A.  McEVOY 

Optician 

EYES  EXAMINED 
Optical  Goods  Glasses  Repaired 
143  Merrimack  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 
Telephone  1798 

Compliments  of 

JOHN  J.  MOLONEY 

FLORIST 

20  Prescott  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

DICKERMAN  &  McQUADE 

Central  at  Market  St. 

Lowell,  Mass. 

“THE  MEN’S  STORE” 

A,  B.  LOOMER 

Choice  Provisions 

Ballardvale,  Mass. 

Phone 

P.  KALAVRETINOS 

808  Rogers  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

Fruit  and  Produce 

SMITH  BROS. 

TEWKSBURY 

ICE 

Box  129,  R.  F.  D.  No.  1,  Lowell, 
TEWKSBURY 

A.  C.  FOWLER 

Painting,  Papering,  and 
Whitewashing 

174  Powel  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 
Tel. 

Compliments  of 

E.  A.  WILSON  CO. 

Coal  and  Building  Materials 

Lowell,  Mass. 

Office,  152  Paige  St.;  Yards,  700 
Broadway,  and  2  Tanner  St. 

Insure  Your  House  With 

WILLIAM  D.  BROWN 

Central  Block,  Lowell,  Mass. 

LOWELL  CO-OPERATIVE 
BANK 

Regular  and  Prior  Series 
Shares  Always  on  Sale. 

Ask  for  Booklet. 

53  Central  St.,  Lowell,  Mass. 

The  Recipe 

Which  Wins  The  Prize 


for  the  most  desired  of  all  things  in  life, 
namely : 


Health,  Happiness  and  Prosperity 


is: 


Mix  with  a  lot  of  hard  work,  well  done, 
a  reasonable  amount  of  innocent  recre¬ 
ation,  seasoning  with  wise  economy,  and 
an  account  in  this  Friendly  Bank. 


MERRIMACK  RIVER  SAVINGS  BANK 

228  CENTRAL  ST.  LOWELL,  MASS. 


HOOSIER 

KITCHEN  CABINETS 

Save  Miles  of  Steps 

Hoosier  Special 

*45.°° 

The  Robertson  Co. 

82  PRESCOTT  ST. 


“Service  and  Quality 99 


Osterman  Coal  Co. 


coal 


ANTHRACITE 


BITUMINOUS 


New  England  (OTTO)  Coke 
CEMENT  BRICK  Masons’  Supplies 


No  order  too  Large  for  us  to  handle— No 
order  too  Small  to  receive  prompt  attention. 


Sizes  — EGG  STOVE  NUT  PEA  BUCKWHEAT— Sizes 


Burn  some  Pea  or  Buckwheat  with  the 
larger  sizes  of  anthracite  and  save  money. 
Buckwheat  is  anthracite,  only  smaller 
„  —AND  CHEAPER. 

Branch  Office  OFFICE  and  YARD 

98  Gorham  Street  Telephone 

Tel.  508  6644 


Success  in  Cooking 

depends  a  great  deal  upon  the 
CORRECT  COOKING  UTENSILS. 

You  will  find  just  exactly  what  you 
need  in  our  HOUSEWARES  DEPT. 

BASEMENT 

The  Bon  Marche 

Dry  Goods  Company 
Lowell,  Mass. 


F.  G.  MOREY  H.  F.  JACOBS 

F.  G.  Morey  &  Co. 

Grain ,  Coal ,  Lime 
Cement ,  Fertilizers 

Hay,  Straw  and  Grass-Seed 

BILLERICA,  MASS. 

Telephone  36-2 

When  your  cooking  is  all  done 

Sit  down  quietly  before  the 
“OPEN  FIRE” 
and  enjoy  the  luxury  that  comes 
with  it.  We  have  every  equip¬ 
ment  for  the  Fireplace. 
Andirons,  Screens,  Fire  Sets 
Fenders,  Wood  Baskets 

Cape  Cod  Lighters 
Everything  for  the  Fireplace 

THE 

THOMPSON  HARDWARE 
COMPANY 

254  Merrimack  Street 
LOWELL,  MASS. 
Telephone  156-157 

BAKER  &  CO. 

The 

— 

Livingston  Co. 

LowelV  s 

Only  Specialists  in 

Woolen  Fabrics 

Pure  Cider  Vinegar 

212  Merrimack  Street 

LOWELL,  MASS. 

UP  one  flight  Phone  6503 

BILLERICA,  MASS. 

“  RELIABILITY” 

Telephone  Connection 

is  the  keynote 

GARDNER  BROTHERS 

of  our  service 

Upholsterers 

ADAMS  &  CO. 

Furniture  Repaired 

Gardner’s  Auto  Polish 

43-49  MARKET  STREET 

Hair  Mattresses  Made  Over 

LOWELL,  MASS. 

Antique  Furniture  Repairing  a 

Specialty 

FURNITURE  DEALERS 

49  ROBBINS  STREET 

SINCE  1842 

LOWELL,  MASS. 

T.  W.  Johnson,  President 

J.  H.  Johnson,  Treasurer 

“In  cooking 

H.  T.  Johnson,  Secretary 

the  best  materials 

Thomas  W.  Johnson 

give  the  best  results ” 

Company 

Turner  Centre 

Contractors  and  Builders 

Dairy  Products 

are  always  reliable 

487  Andover  Street 
Lowell,  Massachusetts 

Our  truck  gives  weekly 

service  in  Tewksbury 

Members  of  Lowell  Builders’  Exchange 

~  ,  /  Office,  643-W 

T elephones  |  jCesidence,  3625 

Tel.  Lowell  1161 

Compliments  of 


JOHN  T.  GALE 

HUjotesal?  iFlnrtst 


Tewksbury  -  Mass. 


FOSTER  GRAIN  CO. 

Wholesale  and 
Retail  Millers 

LOWELL  MASSACHUSETTS 

Telephone  701-702 


We  WISH  for  the  ladies  of  the  Tewksbury 
Congregational  Church  the  largest  success  in 
their  endeavor  to  establish  an  organ  in  the 
church,  and  we  wish  to  all  the  people  of 
Tewksbury  contentment  and  happiness. 

LAJOIE  COAL  COMPANY  110  Gorham  Street 

Tel.  637 

1012  Gorham  Street 
Tel.  2725 

LACO  FILLING  STATION  1048  Gorham  Street 

Tel.  4784 


STEINWAY  &  SONS 

GLASS  and  PAINT  for 

Steinert  Jewett  Woodbury  Curtis 

All  Purposes 

PIANOS 

— 

MIRRORS 

The  DUO  -  ART 

Reproducing  Piano 

Lowell  Plate  &  Window 

PLAYER  PIANOS 

Glass  Co. 

Victrolas  Victor  Records 

Painting  and  Glazing  a  Specialty 

Radio  Receiving  Sets 

* 

236  Middlesex  St,  Lowell 

Jffl.  Steinert  &  ^>onsi 

130  Merrimack  St.,  Lowell 

Telephone  540 

JOHN  A.  RICHARDSON 

W.  MELVIN  ELLIS  HAROLD  C.  PETTERSON 

DEALER  IN 

ELLIS  and  PETTERSON 

LUMBER 

REAL  ESTATE 

and 

INSURANCE 

_I  j  Main  Street 

I  alQ  |  Bennett  Hall  Station 

Automobile,  Accident,  Fire,  Life 

Billerica,  Mass. 

or  any  form  of  Insurance  in  the 

strongest  companies  doing  busi¬ 
ness.  We  handle  our  own  ad¬ 

justing,  therefore  we  guarantee 

Steam  and  Electric  Cars  Pass  the 

satisfaction.  Real  estate  of  all 

Premises 

descriptions  promptly  sold. 

174  Central  Street,  Lowell 

Telephone  Billerica  94 

Telephone  6640 

INDEX 


Page 

Beverages  155-157 

Chocolate,  South  American  157 
Cocktail,  Fruit  157 

Cocktail,  Raspberry  157 

Ginger  Tea,  iced  156 

Grape  Juice  155 

Grape  Juice,  uncooked  156 

Lemon  Orangeade  156 

Punch,  Fruit  156 

Punch,  Ginger  156 

Punch,  Grape  Juice  155 

Punch,  Raspberry  156 

Raspberry  Vinegar  157 


71,  75,  77, 


Bread 

About  Bread 
Baking  Powder 
Biscuit,  baking  powder 
Biscuit,  bran 
Biscuit,  butter  scotch 
Biscuit,  cheese  drop 
Biscuit,  Dixie 
Biscuit,  heavenly 
Bread,  brown 
Bread,  corn 
Bread,  date 
Bread,  date  and  nut 
Bread,  fried 
Bread,  German 
Bread,  Graham 
Bread,  Grape-Nuts 
Bread,  nut  71 

Bread  oatmeal 
Bread,  peanut  butter 
Bread,  prize 
Bread,  raisin 
Bread,  raisin  and  nut 
Bread,  rye 

Bread,  shredded  wheat 

Bread,  sticks 

Bread,  Swedish  coffee 

Bread,  walnut 

Bread,  white,  6  loaves 

Breakfast  cake 

Buns,  English  Rock 

Buns,  Hot  Cross 

Corn  cake,  golden 

Corn  cake,  spider 

Dumplings 

Griddle  Cakes 

Johnny  Cake 

Johnny  Cake,  Neverfail 

Johnny  Cake,  Rhode  Island 

Muffins 

Muffins,  berry 

Muffins,  corn 

Muffins,  Corn  Flake 

Muffins,  plain 

Muffins,  squash 

Pop  Overs 


68- 


82 

68 

77 
74 

69 
80 

78 
81 

79 

78 

73 

79 
77 

70 

80 
77 

71 

73,  75,  78 

74 

75 
81 

69 
74 

70-72 

70 


81 

80 

72 

68 

82 

74 

70 

72 
80 
82 

79 
78 
78 
77 
77 

71 

73 

80 

72 
69 

74 


Page 

Prepared  Four  for  Gems  73 

Rolls,  Parker  House  73 

Rolls,  sea  foam  81 

Rye  Drop  Cakes  69 

Sandwich  Fillings  76,  SO 

Sally  Lunn  70 

Scones  72 

Scones,  Scotch  79 

Time  Table  for  Baking  82 

Toast  75 


Cake  83-102 

Apple  Sauce  93 

Blueberry  101 

Chocolate  86,  98 

Chocolate,  economical  91 

Chocolate,  Mocha  90 

Chocolate,  one-egg,  best  100 

Cocoanut  83,  91,  98 

Cream  Cakes  100 

Cushion  84 

Dark  97 

Date  90,  100 

Devil’s  Food  98 

Economy  84 

Eggless  85 

Egyptian  Nugget  87 

English  Fruit  Loaf  93 

English  Spice  95 

English  Tea  99 

Filling,  Lemon  98 

Frosting,  Chocolate  88 

Fruit  S3.  97 

Fruit,  dark  101 

Fruit,  without  Eggs  88 

Fudge  85 

Fudge,  Wellesley  85 

Ginger  Cup  Cakes,  old  fashioned 

89 

Golden  Cream  101 

Ice  Cream  87 

Lancashire  Tea  102 

Layer  92,  93,  99 

Layer,  Orange  94 

Layer,  with  Raisin  Filling  92 
Lazy  83 

Lightning  88 

Mock  Angel  101 

Number  89 

Nut  96 

Nut,  Chocolate  96 

Nut,  Fruit  98 

Nut,  Inexpensive  91 

Nut,  My  Own  95 

Orange  97 

Park  Street  or  Soda  Sponge  95 
Pineapple  95 

Ribbon  86 

Rochester  Jelly  94 

Rocks  89 


Roll  Jelly 
Royal  Loaf 
Scripture 
Sea  Foam 
Silver 
Spice 

Spice,  eggless 
Sponge 

Sponge,  cream 
Sponge,  hot  water 
Sponge,  ice  water 
Sponge,  orange 
Sunshine 


Page 

83 

84 

100 

85 
97 

100 
88 
85,  99 
92 
89 
89 
91 
88 


Walnut 

96 

Wralnut,  Chocolate 

94 

Watermelon 

99 

Wedding 

90,  92 

Wedding,  Aunt  Etta’s 

96 

Wellesley  Loaf 

87 

Worth  While 

84 

Canning  and  Preserving 

141-149 

About  Canning 

141,  142 

Asparagus 

142 

Bar-le-duc 

149 

Conserve,  Apple  and  Plum 

147-149 

Conserve,  Cranberry 

14S 

Conserve,  Currant  and  Orange 

148 

Conserve,  Pineapple  and  Straw- 

berry 

148 

Conserve,  Plum 

147,  148 

Conserve,  Rhubarb 

147 

Greens 

143 

Jam,  Rhubarb 

149 

Jam,  Strawberry  and 

Pine- 

apple 

149 

Jelly,  Apple 

144 

Jelly,  Choke  Cherry 

145 

Jelly,  Cranberry 

145 

Jelly,  Grapes 

144 

Jelly,  Grape,  green 

144 

Jelly,  Mint 

145 

Jelly,  Three  Fruit 

145 

Marmalade,  Apricot 

146 

Marmalade,  Lime 

147 

Marmalade,  Orange 

146 

Marmalade,  Orange  and  Grape- 

fruit 

147 

Marmalade,  Orange  and  Pine- 

apple 

146 

Marmalade,  Peach 

146 

Marmalade,  Tomato 

146 

Peaches 

143 

Pear  Chips 

149 

Poultry  and  Game 

143 

Preserves,  Plum 

149 

Wax  Beans 

143 

The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Page 

Confectionery  150-155 

Candied  Peel  #  152 

Caramels,  Vanilla  153 

Chocolate  Drops  151 

Dates,  stuffed  154 

Fig  Candy  154 

Fondant,  unflavored  150 

Fudge  152 

Fudge,  Chocolate  151 

Fudge,  Divinity  153 

Fudge,  Fig  155 

Fudge,  Maple  Date  154 

Fudge,  Nut  151 

Fudge,  Peanut  Butter  154 

Grapefruit  Rind,  to  preserve  152 
Mints,  After  Dinner  150 

Peanut  Brittle  154 

Penuchi  153 

Peppermints  152 

Puffed  Rice  Crisp  152 

Toffee  153 


Chairmen  of  Departments  6 


Cookies  and  Doughnuts 


Bran 

125-133 

125 

Brownies 

125 

Brown  Sugar 

125 

Cocoanut  Cakes 

128 

Coffee 

129 

Cream  Cakes 

129 

Date  Bars 

127 

Doughnuts 

130,  131 

Doughnuts,  raised 

131 

Doughnuts,  twisted 

131 

Drop  Cakes 

133 

Farmer’s 

126 

Filled 

128 

Ginger 

133 

Gingerbread 

132 

Gingerbread,  best  ever 

133 

Gingerbread,  camp 

132 

Gingerbread,  chocolate 

132 

Gingerbread,  delicious 

131 

Gingerbread, soft 

132 

Gingerbread,  sugar 

132 

Hermits 

126,  129 

Jumbles 

129 

Lemon 

125 

Macaroons,  Corn  Flake 

128 

Marguerites 

128 

Martha  Ann 

127 

Molasses 

127 

Molasses  Ginger 

127 

Molasses,  Soft 

126 

Oatmeal 

128 

Scottish  Fancies 

125 

Snaps,  Coffee 

126 

Spice 

130 

Sugar 

127 

Wafers,  Black  Walnut 

129 

Wafers,  Vanilla 

126 

Eggs 

170 

Egg  Omelet 

170 

Eggs,  au  gratin 

170 

Eggs,  scalloped 

170 

Eggs,  stuffed 

170 

Page 

Omelet 

170 

Entrees 

53-59 

Cheese  Custard 

58 

Cheese  Rarebit,  snappy 

58 

Cheese  Souffle 

57 

Chicken  Puff 

53 

Chicken  Wiggle 

55,  56 

Corn,  a  la  Touraine 

55 

Corn  Fritters 

55 

Corn  Oysters 

56 

English  Monkey 

56 

Fritters,  Corn 

55 

Fritters,  Pineapple 

53 

Halibut,  moulded 

53 

Hamburg  with  Olives 

54 

Ham  Rabbit 

56 

Macaroni  with  Meat 

54 

Meat,  escalloped 

56 

Onions,  escalloped 

58 

Oysters,  Creamed  on  Potato 

Mound 

59 

Peppers,  stuffed 

55 

Peppers,  stuffed  green 

56 

Potato  Cake,  German 

57 

Red  Devil 

54 

Rice  and  Cheese 

58 

Rice  Croquettes 

57 

Rice,  Waldorf  Astoria 

57 

Souffle,  cheese 

57 

Souffle,  meat 

54 

Souffle,  Tomato  and  Macaroni  53 

Supper  Dish 

54 

Supper  Dish,  cold  night 

58 

Supper  Dish,  good 

56 

Tomato  Cakes 

57 

Woodcock,  Scotch 

54 

Fish 

18-29 

Clams,  fried 

29 

Clams,  stifled 

29 

Cod,  escalloped 

22 

Codfish  Mound 

21 

Finnan  Haddie 

19 

Finnan  Haddie  creamed 

19 

Fish,  a  la  Bechamel 

24 

Fish,  a  la  creme 

27 

Fish  Cakes 

20 

Fish  Chowder 

20 

Fish  Chowder,  Down  East 

20 

Fish,  scalloped 

21 

F'ish,  to  bake 

18 

Fish,  to  boil 

18 

Fish,  to  fry 

19 

Fish,  Turban 

20 

Fish,  Turbot 

21 

Haddock,  baked  stuffed 

19 

Halibut,  baked 

22,  23 

Halibut,  Hollenden 

22 

Halibut,  Loaf 

23 

Halibut,  moulded 

26 

Halibut,  Swedish 

22 

Lobster,  deviled 

27 

Lobster,  hot  creamed 

28 

Lobster  Newburg 

27 

Oysters,  escalloped 

28 

Oysters,  stewed 

28 

Salmon  Box 

25 

Salmon,  canned,  baked 

25 

Salmon  Loaf 

24 

Page 

Salmon  Row 

25 

Salmon  Souffle 

25 

Salmon,  to  boil 

26 

Scallops,  fried 

26 

Shrimp  Comport 

23 

Shrimp,  luncheon 

24 

Smelts,  fried 

27 

Sauce,  Almond 

27 

Sauce,  Drawn  Butter 

26 

Sauce,  for  Lobster 

28 

Sauce,  White  Egg 

26 

Time  Table  for  Cooking 

IS 

Tuna  Fish,  gelatine 

23 

Foreword 

7 

Frozen  Dainties 

157-161 

Banana  Dainty 

160 

Chocolate  Syrup 

161 

Cream,  Peanut  Brittle 

160 

Cream,  Pineapple  159 

Cream,  Pineapple  and  Marsh- 

mallow 

161 

Frappe,  Cranberry 

159 

FYappe,  Orange 

158 

Ice  Cream,  Coffee 

160 

Ice  Cream,  Maple 

159 

Maple  Mould 

157 

Maple  Parfait 

160 

Mousse,  Coffee 

161 

Mousse,  Maple 

161 

Mousse,  Pineapple 

159 

Orange  Delicious 

160 

Peaches,  frozen 

160 

Peach  Snow 

159 

Sherbet,  Banana 

158 

Sherbet,  Lemon 

15S 

Sherbet,  Milk 

158 

Sherbet,  Pineapple 

158 

Syrup,  Chocolate 

161 

Water  Ice,  Tutti  Frutti 

158 

Invalid  Cookery 

162-164 

Beef  Tea 

163 

Blanc  Mange 

164 

Broth,  Chicken 

164 

Broth,  Clam 

163 

Broth,  Lamb 

163 

Coffee.  Crust 

162 

Custard,  boiled 

164 

Custard,  cup 

164 

Gruel,  Arrowroot 

162 

Gruel,  Indian 

162 

Gruel,  Oatmeal 

162 

Milk  Shake,  Egg 

164 

Soup,  Clam 

163 

Toast 

162 

Toast,  Milk  sauce  for 

162 

Toast,  pink 

162 

Meats  and  Poultry 

30-44 

About  Meats 

30 

Bacon 

41 

Beef,  corned 

34 

Beef,  Loaf  33,  37,  39 

Beef,  Meat  Loaf 

37 

Beef,  roast 

33 

Beef  Stew 

32 

Chicken,  a  la  casserole 

44 

The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Page 

Chicken,  Baltimore  42 

Chicken,  boned  44 

Chicken,  brown  fricassee  42 

Chicken  Croquettes  43 

Chicken,  nice  way  to  cook  42 

Chicken,  pie  43 

Chicken,  roast,  giblet  gravy  42 
Chicken  Salad  44 

Chop  Suey,  American  32,  38 

Chop  Suey,  Chinese  36 

Dinner,  boiled  34 

Flank  Steak,  braised  36 

Goose,  roast  43 

Goulash ,  Hungarian  32 

Goulash,  with  Peppers  34 

Ham,  baked  sliced  40 

Ham  Balls  36 

Ham,  delicate  3S 

Ham,  deviled  32 

Ha  m,  en  casserole  41 

Ham,  smothered  39 

Ham,  spiced  baked  34 

Ham,  to  boil  33 

Ham,  to  flavor  when  boiling  38 
Hamburg  en  casserole  40 

Lazy  Roast  36 

Meat,  escalloped  37 

Meat  Roll  32 

Meat,  potted  40 

Pig,  roast  41 

Pork  Chops,  baked  36 

Pot  Roast  33,  38 

Poultry  Dressing  42 

Russian  Casserole  39 

Salt  Pork,  fried  35 

Scrapple,  Philadelphia  32 

Spare  Ribs,  baked  39 

Stew  37 

Stew,  beef  32 

Stew,  Brunswick  34 

Stew,  California  Settlers’  40 

Stew,  Hunter’s  35 

Stew,  lamb  38 

Time  Table  for  Meats  31 

Toad  in  the  Hole  39 

To  Serve  with  Meats  41 

Tripe,  fried  37 

Veal,  breaded  37 

Veal  Loaf  31,  35,  40 

Veal,  potted  shank  33 

Yorkshire  Pudding  38 

Our  Advertisers,  To  179 

Pickles  134-140 

Beet  136 

Beet  Relish  137 

Carrots  137 

Catsup,  Cucumber  138 

Catsup,  Grape  138 

Catsup,  Currant  138 

Chilli  Sauce  136 

Chutney, cooked  136 

Chutney,  Rhubarb  140 

Chutney,  uncooked  136 

Corn  Relish  139 

Cucumber  Relish  134 

Cucumber,  ripe  137 

Cucumber  Sauce  139 

Cucumbers  134 


Page 

Dutch  Salad 

139 

Ketchup,  Tomato 

138 

Mustard 

135 

Pears,  sweet  pickled 

137 

Pepper,  Relish 

135 

Pottsfield 

134,  135 

Tomato,  green,  chopped 

134 

Tomato  Ketchup 

138 

Tomato  Relish 

135 

Tomato,  ripe 

135 

Watermelon  Rind 

137 

Pies 

103-112 

Apnle 

111 

Bakewell 

108 

Brambles 

111 

Boston  Cream 

104 

Butter  Scotch 

106,  no 

Cherry  Pie  Filling 

111 

Chocolate  C ream 

104,  112 

Coeoanut  Tarts 

111 

Cranberry 

107 

Cranberry  and  Raisin 

107 

Cream  Pie  Shells 

105 

Custard,  Bakers’ 

106 

Custard,  Date 

104 

Fudge 

108 

Lemon 

103,  105 

Lemon,  Cream 

110 

Lemon,  Sponge 

104 

Mince  Meat 

107,  109 

Mince  Meat,  Tomato 

106,  111 

Mock  Cherry 

107 

Mock  Mince  Meat 

110 

Paste,  plain 

103 

Pastry 

103 

Pineapple  105, 

106,  108 

Pumpkin 

108 

Raisin 

111 

Rhubarb 

105 

Rhubarfi  meringue 

110 

Sour  Milk 

109 

Squash 

no 

Suggestions 

109 

Tarts 

106 

Tarts,  Coeoanut 

111 

Walnut  Cream 

110 

Washington 

103 

Washington,  or  Cream 

107 

Proportions 

9 

Puddings  and  Desserts 

113-124 

Apple  Dumplings 

113 

Appleine 

113 

Apple,  Mackintosh,  to  a 

113 

Apple  Snow 

113 

Apple,  steamed 

114 

Apples,  stuffed 

113 

Banana 

1 15 

Bavarian  Cream 

121 

Bread 

115 

Caramel 

117 

Carrot 

119 

Chocolate 

123 

Chocolate  Coeoanut 

122 

Chocolate  Rice 

117 

Chocolate,  steamed 

122 

Page 

Coffee  Custard  118 

Cottage  115 

Cranberry  118 

Date  and  Nut  122 

Date  and  Rice  1 15 

English  114 

English  Suet  116 

Fig  123 

Fig  and  Nut  120 

Fruit  Dessert  116 

Fruit  Puffs,  Ma’s  115 

Frying  Pan  121 

Fuller  117 

Grape-Nut  124 

High  Church  118 

Indian,  Vegetable  117 

Indian,  Tapioca  123 

K  n  ieker bocker  1 20 

Lemon  Whip  116 

Macaroon  117 

Marshmallow  Cream  121,  123 
Orange  1 24 

Peach  1 14 

Penuchi  118 

Pineapple  and  Rice  114 

Pineapple  Sponge  116 

Pineapple  Whip  118 

Pompadour  121 

Pork  122 

Prune  119 

Prune  Ambush  119 

Queen’s  120 

Raisin  Puffs  119 

Raspberry  Whip  1 18 

Shredded  Wheat  123 

Snow  121 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  119 

Tapioca,  Indian  123 

Thanksgiving  116 


Recipe  for  A  Happy  Life.  A 

II 

Rules  by  Gentlemen  165-169 


Biscuit,  Cream  of  Tartar  1 65 

Butter  Scotch  168 

Cake,  Coeoanut  168 

Cake,  perfect  Chocolate  168 

Cheese  Paste  166 

Chowder,  Clam  165 

Coeoanut  Pyramids  166 

Cough  Medicine  169 

Cracker  Dressing  for  Turkey 
or  Chicken  167 

Dessert,  24-hour  166 

Drop  Cakes  165 

Fudge,  Chocolate  168 

Ice  Cream,  Grape-Nut  169 

Ice  Cream,  vanilla  169 

’Lasses  Candy  168 

Luncheon  Dish,  Creole  166 

Macaroons  169 

Muffins,  Minister’s  166 

Onion  Gravy  167 

Oysters  or  Scallops,  fried  165 

Oyster  Stew  165 

Paccalilli,  My  Mother’s  167 

Salad,  Fig  167 

Sandwich,  Western  167 


The  Home-Maker  s  Cookbook 


Page 

Sardine,  a  la  Toast  166 

Short  Bread,  Scotch  167 

Salads  60-67 

Biscuit  Cheese  62 

Butterfly  61 

Cheese  and  Pepper  62 

Combinations  64 

Crackers,  puffed  64 

Cranberry  60 

Dressing  65,  66  67 

Dressing,  Aunt  Mary’s  65 

Dressing,  boiled  67 

Dressing,  French  Fruit  66 

Dressing,  Fruit  65 

Dressing,  Golden  66 

Dressing,  Thousand  Island  66 
Dressing,  without  oil  66 

Egg  and  Green  Pepper  60 

Fruit  62,  63,  67 

Fruit,  frozen  62 

Ginger  Ale  64 

Grape  fruit  61 

Grape-Nuts  60 

Mayonnaise  66 

Mayonnaise,  easy  67 

Moulded  Fruit  61 

Orange  and  Cherry  60 

Perfection  61 

Salmon  63,  64 

Sole  63 

Tomato  Jelly  60,  63 

Sauces  45-46 

Cheese,  for  Fish  46 

Curry,  for  Lamb  or  Eggs  46 


Page 

Drawn  Butter  45 

Egg,  for  baked  or  boiled  Fish  46 

Horseradish  45 

Mint  46 

Raisin  46 

Shrimp,  for  Fish  46 

Tart  are  46 

Tomato  45 

White  45 

White  Cream  45 

Soups  13-17 

Bean  Porridge,  old  fashioned  13 

Bisque,  Clam  16 

Bisque,  Salt  Fish  15 

Cauliflower  Cream  17 

Celery  13 

Celery,  Cream  of  13 

Chowder,  Fish  16 

Chowder,  Parsnip  15 

Corn  15 

Old  Stand-By,  My  Mother’s  16 

Potato  1 3 

Scotch  Broth  15 

Split  Pea  14 

Squash  15 

Tomato,  Canned  16 

Tomato,  Cream  of  17 

Tomato,  for  Canning  14 

Tomato,  quick  14 

Useful  Rules  for  Baking  10 

Vegetables  47-52 

About  Vegetables  47 

Bananas,  baked  4S 


Beans,  baked 

Page 

4S 

Beet  Greens 

4S 

Beets  with  Lemon  Butter 

48 

Cabbage,  boiled 

51 

Cabbage,  scalloped 

49 

Carrots,  chopped 

51 

Carrots,  creamed 

48 

Corn,  scalloped 

51 

Cucumbers,  stewed 

51 

Egg  Plant,  fried 

50 

New  Wrinkle 

48 

Parsnip  Stew 

52 

Peppers,  baked 

49 

Peppers,  backed  fillings 

49 

Potato  Cakes 

48 

Potatoes,  baked 

50 

Potatoes,  baked  with  Cheese 

51 

Potatoes,  mashed 

48 

Potatoes,  O’Brien 

Potatoes,  scalloped 

52 

49 

Something  New 

52 

Spinach 

50 

Squash,  creamed 

49 

Squash,  summer 

50 

String  Beans 

Time  Table  for  Cooking 

50 

47 

Tomatoes,  stuffed 

52 

Turnip  and  Onion 

51 

Turnips 

49 

Weights  and  Measures, 

Table  of 

8 

Well  Balanced  Meals 

10 

- 


* 


* 


‘ 


* 


i 


- 


s. 


I 


\ 

‘ 


«v 


* 


n 


4 

/ 


A 


I 


/ 


% 


V 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


