okecon 


STORIA 


RANKLIM PRESS) 


Sid Fane 2 Fy 
2 MINTS/9 








AKE a little dish of water cold 

And a little leaven of prayer 

And a little bit of morning gold 
Dissolved in the morning air i 
Add to your meal some merriment 

And a thought for kith or kin 

And then as a prime ingredient 

‘Plenty of work thrown in. 

But spice it all with the essence of love 
And a little whif of play 

Let a wise old book, and a glance above 
Complete the well made day. 














N ISSUING THIS BOOK OF RECIPES to 
the many friends of the M. E. Church, we 
have endeavored to the best of our ability to 
compile only such recipes as have been tried 
in our homes and found practical. 

We want to thank all the women who have 
given assistance of any kind in the work of 
compiling this book, as well as furnishing 
recipes. 

We especially wish to extend thanks to the 
business men, who by their liberal advertis- 
ing, have financially made this book possi- 
ble, Your patronage will be highly appreciat- 
ed by them and we ask wherever possible you 
will patronize all those who have herein’ ad- 
vertised. 

Women’s Society of the M. E. Church. 











Soups and Chowders 


= eS Cheese Sticks 
“Cut Stale bread in long narrow strips, spread with butter and 
then with a thick coating of grated cheese. Place in the oven un- 
til brown. Serve with soup. 


—Mrs. H. V. Wygant 
Split Pea Soup 


1 cup dried split peas 1 bay leaf : 
1 quart water 2 or three slices of bacon cut 
1 small onion in small pieces and fried, 


Soak peas over night in the water. Drain, heat water to boiling 
point, add peas and cook until done. Ham bone may be used in- 
stead of bacon. Add salt and pepper to taste. More water may 
be added. 

—Mrs. J. M. Ohl. 


: ; Clam Chowder 
1 can minced clams 1 pint milk or more 


1 medium: sized onion Butter size of an egg 
2 slices bacon 1. tablespoon flour 


1 medium sized potato 
Cut bacon in small pieces and fry in pan. Add finely chopped 
onion and brown. Add diced potato, cover with water and cook 
until potato is soft. Add milk and clams, Thicken with flour and 
butter. Add salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. 
—Mrs. J. A. Beemer 


Cream of Asparagus 
Cut the tips and tender portions of about 2 dozen stalks of as- 
paragus very fine and cook them in enough water to prevent burn- 
ing. Heat milk to boiling; thicken with cracker crumbs. Add as- 
paragus, also butter and seasoning to taste. Let boil a few minutes, 
and serve.» —Mrs. H. O. Gosnell. 


Swedish Fruit Soup (Sweet) 

Wash and soak over night 1 cup prunes, and % cup each of 
currants and raisins. Cook all together in 2 quarts of water for 
about 1 hour, using the water in which the fruit was soaked. Add 
¥% cup sago, 1 stick whole cinnamon, juice of 1 lemon, and sugar to 
taste. Cook until the sago is clear. 

—Mrs. John Pearson. 


Chicken Soup 


1% cups cooked diced chick- 1 cup diced potatoes 
en, % cup minced onion 
6 cups chicken broth 2 tablespoons rice 


1 cup diced celery ; hee 
Add vegetables and rice and cook until tender. Serve with 
croutons. 
’ Croutons : rs 
Cut stale bread into small pieces. Brown in hot oven, stirring 


to insure browning on all sides. 
Cin ate Dae ; —Mrs. D. W. Kline. 


Cream of Tomato 
Cook and strain through a sieve 1 quart of tomatoes. Reheat to 
boiling point, and thicken with a little cornstarch. In a saucepan 
melt 1 large tablespoon butter, sift in 1 tablespoon flour, and let 
cook until perfectly smooth, then slowly add 1 quart hot milk. Heat 
to boiling, mix with the tomatoes, season, add more butter and a 


i i ired. This will not curdle, 
little sugar if desire ae eae 


(aa ae 
























Lentil Soup ae as ge a 

Soak one pint of lentils over night. Cook with a bunc! of parsle 
in water anonen to cover well for about 1 hour. Add 1 cup tomatoe 
canned or fresh, 1 onion and 2 carrots cut into dices. Rub throug 
a colander and reheat with water or stock sufficient to make tw 
quarts of soup. Brown 2 teaspoons flour in an equal amount 0 
butter and add to the boiling soup. Cook 5 minutes longer, season 
to taste, add more butter and sprinkle with chopped parsley, if 


desired. ee tee c. a he c 


Lima Bean Soup cast a ne 

Soak 2 cups lima beans over night or until skins can be removed. 
Cook in as small amount of water as possible. When cooked, add 
desired amount of milk and butter. Add salt and pepper. 
: —Mrs. J. A. Beemer. 





tN 


Corn Chowder A ee ae 
2 slices fat salt pork 1 cup cooked corn, fresh or 
1 onion canned. oy ee Site ro 
3 cups diced boiled potatoes 4 cups hot milk — 
2 cups boiling water Salt and pepper — 


Cut pork into small pieces and fry. In this cook the sliced onion. 
Strain the fat into another receptacle, and put the potatoes into 
the strained fat, add boiling water, corn which has been cooked un- 
til tender, and hot milk. Season with salt and white pepper. Bring 
to a boiling point and serve with a cracker on each plate. 

. —Mrs, H. V. Wygant — 


Corn Chowder 


¥4 pound fat salt pork 1 quart scalded milk 
1 onion, sliced Salt and pepper to taste 
4 cups sliced potatoes 8 crackers or squares of toast 


2 cups corn : : 
Cut pork into small pieces and fry out, add onions and cook five 
minutes, stirring often, add potatoes and cook until soft. Add 
corn and milk and heat to boiling. Season, add crackers and serve. 
: —Mrs. O. P. Rankin ~ 


Clam Chowder | aor 
2 or 3 potatoes diced and Add bacon and onion to po- _ 
cooked in salted water tatoes and cook until done 
3 or 4 slices of bac cut in | 1 quart milk 
small pieces and fried 2 small cans minced clams __ 
1 onion sliced and fried in 1 tablespoon butter = 8 =——> 


bacon fat Salt and pepper z 

Pca a icant ane Pee with other ingredients. Cook 

: nutes. icken wi or 8 crackers finely : akes — 

six large servings. + ere nei : 

Mrs. H. K. Zimmerman” 

Sweet Potato Surprise ; =a ss ‘ aes . 

2 cups riced sweet potatoes % cup corn flakes or rice 
} Vp rice 
Seen stghtly krispies, rolled into crumbs 

b F j a : 

- So onaHoWs hs a noe 

$ egg, pepper and salt to sweet : 

With marshmallows hidden inside. poe 

deep fat until golden brown. 


I Form into balls 
Roll in cereal crumbs and fry in — 


—Mrs. O. P. Rankin 


Oe \ al 


” 


VEGETABLES 


au ‘ ee Brown Potatoes 

espoons oil or fa Salt and 
6 boiled potatoes mee 
“Chop potatoes, add’ salt and pepper. Melt fat, add potatoes and 
press down in pan the depth of one inch. Cook slowly (without 
stirring) until brown. Then begin at one side of pan and fold 
the potatoes over on the other like an omelet, packing closely to- 
gether. Turn upside down on a hot serving platter and serve at 


once, 
—Mrs. H. V. Wygant. 
oy : Stuffed Onions 
6 medium to large onions % cup milk 
¥ cup chopped ham or 1 tablespoon fat 
chopped green peppers % teaspoon salt 
% cup soft bread crumbs, Pepper 


fine dry ones 

Remove silce from the top of each onion, and parboil the onions 
until almost tender. Drain and remove the centers, making six 
little cups. Chop the onion that was scooped out and combine with 
the ham and soft crumbs. Add seasoning and refill the onion cups. 
Place in baking dish, cover with crumbs, add milk and bake until 


tender. 
—Mrs. H. V. Wygant 


Stuffed Turnips : 

Peel and boil in slightly salted water until (half done.) Take 
them out and slice off a bit from the bottom to make them stand 
firmly. Cut a slice from the tops. Scoop out the inside and fill 
with a stuffing of minced meat. (veal if possible), onions. parsley 


‘and mushrooms. Place the slice back again on top. Place turnips 
‘in a sauce pan; pour over them some boiling gravy or stock; add 


a bit of butter. Season with salt and pepper. Simmer gently until 
tender. Arrange in a deep dish. Thicken gravy with the yolks of an 
egg. Pour over turnips, and serve hot. 

‘ ao Ms. Cc. A, Nelson 


Spanish Hash 
Chop 4 cooked potatoes coarsely and add % small onion. Add 1 
green pepper and 1 pimento, minced fine. %4 teaspoon salt and Y 
teaspoon paprika. Melt 3 tablespoons butter in frying pan, turn in 
mixture. Cook gently till well heated then pour 3 eggs beaten with 
6 tablespoons milk into pan and stir until egg coats potatoes and 
has scrambled appearance. Serves six. 
—Mrs. H, A. Bettendorf 
Fried Peas 
Fry out two slices of bacon cut in cubes. Slice onion in small 
pieces and fry with bacon. Put can of peas:in with bacon and onions 
and let simmer. 
Mrs. A. Heuer. 


Father’s Favorite Cabbage 


Shred the cabbage and cook in as little salted water as is possi- 
ble without burning. When the cabbage is tender, add one third 
as many tart apples as you had cabbage. If there was any water 
on the cabbage drain most of it off as the juice of the apples will 
make plenty of liquid. Continue slow cooking until the apples are 
cooked and thoroughly blended with the cabbage. Season with but- 


and salt. 
ELOREODES —Mrs. Lillian Peters 


sete, SA 
















Vegetable Souffle’ 


1 butter bed thru a sieve Sok ee 
i te flour Carrots, turnips. or onions 
One-third cup cream may be used eyed 
One-third cup water in which Yolks of three egg 

vegetables were cooked Whites of three eggs Be 
1 cup cooked vegetables rub- Salt and pepper ay Pe 


Melt butter, add flour, and pour on gradually cream and water; at 
add vegetable, yolks of eggs beaten until thick and lemon colored, — 
and fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff, then add seasonings, — 
Turn in buttered baking dish one nae ete slow oven for one hour. = 

once or else it will fall, Bote ns ret a 
see es as —Mrs. M.T. Burkland _ 
Baked Tomatoes ed Mage 


6 medium size tomatoes %2 teaspoon chili powder — 
2 cups chopped cold meat, 1 onion | . ae 
beef and pork preferred Salt and pepper to taste on 


% cup bread crumbs SAE ag 
Trim off the stem end of tomatoes, then scoop out inside meat —_ 
leaving a good stiff skin. Put one tablespoon lard in skillet, let — 
come to smoke heat, put in one tablespoon flour, let it brown. Mix — 
all ingredients thoroughly and put in skillet. Cook about three 
minutes. Remove from stove, fill tomatoes with mixture. Place in — 
pan with a little water and cook until tender. ; SRE Re 
—Mrs. R. Sinfield 


Spinach Loaf ‘54 


‘1 can spinach 1 cup white sauce : 
2 cups boiled rice | %2 cup grated cheese _ 
1 teaspoon salt | 1 egg ms 


Drain and chop the spinach. Prepare one cup of white sauce, add __ 
the cheese and stir until it melts, Mix the spinach, rice and S816 °s = 
beaten egg and sauce;pour into a greased pan. Set in pan of 
hot water and bake in a moderate oven until firm. ; eter or 

—Mrs, J. A. Peterson.  —/ 


Corn Souffle’ 


1 tablespoon butter : 1 pimento 

1 tablespoon flour 2 cups corn pulp 
4% cup milk : 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt Pepper - 


¥, teaspoon paprika ees yey A 
* Make a white sauce using the butter, flour, milk and seasonings, 
Rub the pimento thru a sieve and add to the sauce. Add the comm 
to the mixture. Cool slightly, then add the well beaten egg yolks 
and fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into a greased bak- 
ing dish. Set dish in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate 
oven until the egg is set, about. 30 minutes. ees a 

: _—Mrs, H, V. Wygant. 
Swedish Turnips ; 
3 cups cooked sliced turnips 1 tablespoon flour 
1 small onion : ; % teaspoon salt S 
Ys cup vinegar 72 teaspoon sugars 


1 cup boiling water Vy, t 
1 tablespoon butter v4 foie 


Let cook just a minute, but not actuall i 
‘ ; E Y¥ boil. : 
ee that have been arranged in overlapping slices on a serving — 
—Mrs. O. P. Rankin, 
‘ ao, on c~ 4 : 














« 


Carrot Loaf 


Seah cups cooked mashed car- 1 well beaten egg 
ots : 1 tablespoon minced onion 
= Sampara ait sugar 2 tablespoons minced parsley 
ne+third cup bread crumbs Salt and pepper to taste 


ised oo mold set in pan of hot water about 25 minutes, 


—Mrs. R. Sinfield 
Deviled Spinach 


2 cups cooked spinach 3 hard boiled eggs 
1 tablespoon lemon juice Salt and pepper 
1% cups cheese sauce Nutmeg 

Cheese Sauce 
1% cups grated cheese Dry mustard 
1 tablespoon butter Salt and pepper 
1 cup milk 


: Mix ingredients well. Arrange egg slices on top. Bake in casserole 
in hot oven 15 minutes. 
—Mrs, H. A. Bettendorf 


Asparagus Souffle 


: Heat contents of one pound can of asparagus and put it thru a 
sieve. Add this to white sauce and return to stove. Separate three 
eggs and beat yolks, add to mixture. Take from fire at once. Fold 
in the stiffly beaten whites. Pour the mixture into a well greased 
baking dish and set in pan of hot water. Bake in a slow oven until 
firm in the center. Pach 
—Bernice Peterson 


Baked Beans ; 
2 cups white beans, soak over night. In morning boil until ten- 
der. Drain, add a small minced onion, two tablespoons tomato 
catsup, two tablespoons brown sugar, a little celery salt, two or 


three slices of bacon cut fine, salt to taste. Bake in bean pot all day. 
—Mrs. Emma Butts. 


Savory Cabbage 


5 tablespoons beef drippings 1% cup water 

6 cups finely shredded cab- 1 tablespoon sugar 
ge YY, teaspoon mustard 
% cup milk Y% teaspoon salt 


Melt fat and fry cabbage in it, until just tender, about 10 or 15 
minutes. Mix milk, water, sugar, mustard and salt together and 


add to cabbage. Mix well and heat thoroughly. 
‘Mrs. O. P. Rankin 


Carrots Flemish Style 
2 bunches small new carrots Y, teaspoon sugar 
2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon migced parsley. 


% cup boiling water ; ; 
- Scrub carrots and cut in quarters lengthwise. Place in sauce 


pan with other ingredients and cook 20 minutes, closely covered. 
a —Mrs. O. P, Rankin 
Potato Puff or Souffle’ 


2 cups hot mashed potatoes 2 tablespoons butter 
2 eggs 1 cup milk 


Add butter to mashed potatoes, egg yolks which have been beaten 


-very light and milk. Stir until well blended and then fold in the 


stiffly beaten egg whites. Mix lightly and. place in a well greased 
bake dish. Bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Serve 


at DBC —Mrs, H. V. Wygant 
iss 2 


Stuffed Baked Tomatoes 

6 tomatoes vory fat Be 

1% cups soft bread crumbs *  % teaspoon’ salt 

2 tablespoons butter or sa- : 

The tomatoes should be very firm, smooth and of equal size. Cut 
a piece from the stem end of each tomato, and remove the centers 
without breaking the walls. Make a stuffing of the centers of the 
tomatoes, crumbs and seasonings, add butter and mix well. Sprinkle 
each tomato well with salt and pepper. Fill with stuffing, packing 
solidly. Place a Small piece of butter on top of each, arrange 
in baking dish and bake in moderate oven until tender. Serve hot 


in baking dish. 
—Mrs. Oscar Gustafson. ° 

















oe oo em 


| ASTOR COURT 
GROCERY 





YOUR PATRONAGE ates 


690 Alameda Avenue 











C. PENNEY & CO: 


» ASTORIA, OREGON 


Phone 809 





Se oe ee ee 





Watchwork : ; 
of Merit’ secre 
Ss 


66 
Jewelers for Generations” 


WATCHES - DIAMONDS - JEWELERY 
FINE CHINA 


511 Commercial Street Phone 1693-J Astoria, Ore 
; x 


= 
: THE STORE WITH PERSONAL SERVICE 


-_ 
& Se ee ee ee ee ce 





| 
| 
| 
| 
: 
3“ S . 
| 

















Meats and Fish 


Norwegian Fishballs and Shrimps 


- 1 can Norwegian fishballs 1 cup soup from fishballs 
1 can shrimps Juice of one-half lemon 
1 tablespoon butter ‘Vinegar, salt and pepper to 
1 heaping tablespoon flour taste, 

-1 cup water Yolks of two eggs — 


Melt butter, add flour a little at a time, add the fish soup, juice 
from lemon, vinegar, salt and pepper. Heat fishballs and shrimp 
in the sauce and when warm take from fire and add the beaten 

egg yolks. Serve with toast. 

—Mrs. Fred L. Bendstrup 


Salmon Souffle 


4 tablespoons flour 1 can flaked salmon 
1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 
1 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 


‘Make a thick white sauce of first three ingredients. Remove 
from fire and add flaked salmon, butter and beaten egg yolks. Fold 
in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into a greased baking dish and 
set in pan of warm water. Bake in moderate oven 50 minutes. Serve 
immediately. 

The souffle recipe is standard for four generous servings. . As- 
paragus, spinach, peas, cheese or chocolate may be substituted for 
the salmon. 

—Mrs. Carl Nyland 


Clam Bake 
2 large cans minced clams Salt and. pepper 
1 large onion ground 2 cans water, measured in 
2 pork chops (not too lean) clam. can 
ground Bake in covered casserole for 
1 cup bread crumbs one hour. 


1 egg well beaten 
, —Mrs. J. A. Peterson 


Creamed Salmon and Peas 


3 tablespoons butter flaked with silver fork 

4 tablespoons flour 1% cup peas 

2 cups milk 14 teaspoon celery salt 
- ‘Two-thirds cup — salmon, \% teaspoon salt 


Melt butter, add flour, mix well and add milk. Cook slowly and 
stir frequently until a creamy sauce forms. Add rest of ingredients 
and cook for 3 minutes. Pour over toast which has been arranged 


on serving platter. Garnish with parsley. 
—Mrs. J. K. Serles 


Salmon Patty 


1 can salmon 2 eges 
2 eggs, slightly beaten 4 tablespoons cold water 
2 tablespoons thick sweet Sifted bread crumbs 
eream 2 cups white sauce 
1% teaspoon salt Ye cup finely chopped celery 
Pinch of pepper 8 slices toast 


Flake the salmon, add two eggs slightly beaten, the sweet cream, 
salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly; shape in small flat cakes, Coat 
with two eggs beaten well with cold water and cover with sifted 
crumbs. Saute in butter until well browned on both sides. Serve 
each cake on a slice of hot buttered toast and cover with white 


ich the cel has been added. 
is aaa: uae —Mrs. Martin George 


a, Tae 


Casserole of Rice and Cornbeef 





1 cup rice , to sauce © 

3 papa boiling water 2 cups cold dahon tor B 

1 teaspoon salt other cold or left over meat) 
1 small onion chopped fine 14 teaspoon salt. oF 


1 can of Spanish style toma- Pepper to taste 5 
Steam the rice 20 minutes. Chop. the meat very-fine, add the ene 
seasonings. Grease a baking dish and add alternately to the rice and — 
meat, cover with tomatc sauce, dot with butter and brown in the. 
oven about 20 minutes, garnish with parsley and serve hot. art 
; —Mrs. J toa Tai ee 


Spaghetti and Sausage 

1 dozen link pork sausages 1 quart can tomatoes 

1 package spaghetti "eH 
Boil spaghetti until tender. Run tomatoes thru strainer. Chop — 

one onion and fry with one tablespoon butter. When golden brown | 

add one tablespoon sugar, flour, tomatoes, one clove garlic, 1 table- 
spoon salt, spices to taste, (cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, Worchester ee 

sauce,) Put in casserole and put sausages on top. Bake 15 min- ~ 

utes in hot oven. It is best. to fry sausage a little first so. as to get 

some of the fat out. 


—Ann Cosovich Se 
Eggs Au Gratin : = 
2 tablespoons flour 6 eggs 
2 tablespoons butter 1 cup grated cheese 
1 cup milk Y% teaspoon salt 


Make white sauce of flour, salt, butter and milk. Break eggs - 
carefully into buttered baking dish. Cover with white sauce and 
then with grated cheese. Bake 15 minutes in a moderate oven. Six 


servings. 
—Mrs. 0. P. Rankin 








a 





Three Ways to a Man’s Heart: 
I—THROUGH HIS STOMACH > 
WE KNOW THIS COOK BOOK WILL HELP YOU. 


II—THROUGH HER EYES 


YOUR ATTRACTIVE APPEARANCE, BY sponcnicay: 
SHOPPING AT THE BEE HIVE a 


is 


, : i r 
ss a aa eRe i ; bree pe Sie Ys EM ATSE A Lae ae , H 
% 8 x : re = Wight Shih ts i Je 
ORS y 4 2 tas a iy ‘S - Lat * oe ¥ 2 = he o¥ ? ~ ut A x 
3 i 
J 


INi—THROUGH HIS VANITY 


SHOP FOR “HIS” TIES, SHIRTS AND OTHER F C. 
INS AT THE BEE HIVE URNISH: 


FOLLOW THESE THREE RULES AND YO 
NEVER LOSE YOUR MAN Se 


BEE HIVE 


———ASTORIA’S OWN DEPARTMENT STORE 
Shopping Center of the Lower Columbia 


b<—~—- en. 











eae ee 


RAT CL 





& 


top and border of rice or potatoes. 


Beef Steak En Casserole 


1 pound beefsteak - 34 cup water 
1 medium onion Salt and pepper to taste 
About four medium potatoes About 4 carrots cut in half 


1 cup cooked tomatoes 
Cut steak in pieces and brown on both sides in frying pan, cut 


onions in slices and place on bottom of casserole. Next place steak, 


then potatoes, carrots, tomatoes and water. Cover and cook in 
moderate oven about two hours. 


—Mrs. E. H. Prehn. 


Fa Salmon Loaf 
1 cup canned salmon, drain 1% cup bread crumbs 
off liquid, cut fine % tablespoon chopped par- 
1% cup butter sley 
4 eggs A little pepper 


Ye, teaspoon salt 
Mix well and steam in double boiler or bake in oven . 


a 


Sauce For Loaf 

Salmon liquid % cup milk 

2 teaspoons flour 1 egg 

-Season to taste 

Tf there is a lot of oil on salmon the butter may be omitted, other- 
wise add 2 teaspoons butter. Place liquid and milk in pan. Use 
part of milk to mix with flour, add to rest of ingredients and boil. 


- —Mrs. A. Felt 
Stuffed Hamburger Roll 
2 Ibs. round steak run thru Dressing Part 
meat grinder (or 2 tbs. ham- 2 cups ground bread crumbs 
_ burger.) 2 cups cold water, let soak 
1 green pepper ¥ cup chopped onion 
1 medium onion % cup. celery 
Salt and pepper to season Yolk of egg 
Unbeaten white of egg Season with salt, pepper and 
1 cup ground bread crumbs sage 
soaked Butter, 2 tablespoons. Mix 
Mix all ingredients well well 


Make a layer of meat in roaster, place dressing on top of it. Then 
add remainder of meat on top of that. Press down sides so dress- 
ing is inside, Bake about 142 hours in moderate oven. 

‘ —Mrs. R. A. Horton 


Spanish Steak 


2 pounds round steak 1 can peas _ 
1 green pepper 1 clove garlic ; 
6 small onions 1 can tomatoes, drained 


Brown steak on both sides, remove from pan and in its place 
simmer the sliced onions, green pepper and garlic for five minutes. 
Place meat in heavy pan and-spread garlic, onions and pepper on 
top, add tomatoes. Cover and let simmer until meat is tender. 
Twenty minutes before serving add peas. Serve with vegtables on 


—Mrs. M, T. Burkland. 


Liver In a New Way 

Wash three’ pounds of liver in cold water. In a heavy tightly 
covered casserole put two onions, sliced, 2 cloves of garlic, 3 table- 
spoons green pepper chopped and browned together with 5 table- 
spoons butter. Thén add 6 whole slices bacon, 2 cups diced carrots, 
3 tablespoons minced parsley, 2 bayleafs, 3 peppercorns, 2 teaspoons 
salt: add 1 cup tomatoes and 2 cups meatstock. Put liver on this 
bed of vegetables and aver yet areuices of bacon. Bake in < mod- 

for an hour and a half. Serve as a whole meal. 

aor —Mrs. Carl M. Nyland 


2S se 


4 


\Chop Suey : 
















1% pound beef 1 large: Gmina 
% pound pork 3 tablespoons © eae ; suey 
% pound veal sauce, Menge Se 


1 bunch celery 
Fry meat brown using plenty of fat. Cover with water and simmer — 


one hour or more. Add seasonings, onion and celery. Add chop suey — 
sauce before serving. Cook %4 cup of rice to eat with this dish. 
—Mrs. W. W. Ge ; 


one Rice oe 
1 cup of rice ~ 1 onion (medium size) eet 
14 pound of pork Large can of tomatoes | 
4% pound beef Salt to taste ee ea 
Cook rice until done. Then put the meat thru the food Snpder: 
and tomatoes thru a seive. Mix all these together and add salt. Put — 
into buttered baking dish and bake for one hour or more in ~ 


a moderate oven. Seg Pom 
Mrs. W.W. Linde  — 


Turkish Delight Pe 

1 flank steak 1 onion, aided © 
Salt and pepper Chili sauce 
Few drops lemon juice 2 sf 
Flour flank steak on both sides. Add seasonings. Lay in roaster, 
sprinkle with lemon juice, cover with sliced onion. Then cover all 
with chili sauce. Bake slowly one and one-half to two hours. 
—Mrs, Martin George 3 








Complete Line of aS Phone 1489 2 
Household seein ee ees 


| Frank Porter Furniture Coe be 


“The Home Furnishers with 
Personal Service” 


3“ Ss 


Exclusive Agents for 137 Tenth Strece = Ms 
LANG RANGES Astoria, Oregon. _ 








Sherman Transfer Co. 
HENRY SHERMAN, Manager _ | 
Telephone 593- 





y 
WE MOVE ANYTHING ANYWHERE 


Office and Storage 524-526 Exchange ‘Street, Astoria, Ore. ae 
Our Motto: “Lower Prices and Better Service” 








Chicken Pie : 


Cook chicken until tender. Salt, bone, slice and put into pa 
Mix well 3 tablespoons butter, 3 tablespoons flour, 3 cube stocksteda 
pepper, cook to smooth gravy, add one cup milk, heat and pour over 
chicken. Keep back some to serve with the pie. Other flavoring 
may be added if desired. 


: Crust for Chicken Pie 
Mix well 2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
Rub into this 2 tablespoons of lard, beat 1 egg light, add 1 cup 
milk, stir into flour mixture making smooth. batter. Spread over 
chicken and bake until done. 
—Mrs. C, A. Mattson 


Beefsteak Pie 

_Two Ibs. round steak cut in strips three inches wide, season each 
piece with pepper, salt and a small piece of butter, roll and place 
in a dish half covered with water and bake in moderate oven one 
hour, then cover with crust of rich biscuit dough or plain pastry, re- 
turn to the oven and bake until a rich brown. A small onion may 
be added to the meat if desired. 

—Mrs. J. K. Serles. 


Spanish Clam 

‘Take a medium sized onion and a clove of garlic, let cook in 2 
tablespoonsful of any good salad oil, but do not brown. When just 
about done, add a small can of tomato puree and let ¢ook for about 
15 minutes, then add salt and-.white pepper to taste and a half 
teaspoonful sugar, Then add 1 dozen fresh clams which have been 
cut up in small pieces and let cook for at least 1 hour, or more. Do 
not cook hard but let boil gently; stir once in a while to keep from 
sticking, and if wanted, add boiled potatoes as you would for chowder 


or serve plain. You might thicken gravy if liked. 
—Mrs. C. A. Nelson 


Liver Pudding 


3 cups cooked rice 1 onion 
1 cup ground liver Salt and pepper 
Butter 


% cup raisins ; ce 
Slice onions and fry in butter. Add rice, liver, raisins and sea- 
sonings to fried onion. Mix well, dot with bits of butter and bake 


i hour, Serve with drawn butter. 
rasp ee one —Mrs. Fred L. Bendstrup 


Chicken Pie 

Clean and cut up fowl and put in a stew pan. Cover with boil- 
ing water and cook gently until tender. After the first hour of 
cooking add 2 teaspoons salt, a little pepper, a sprig of parsley, a 
bay leaf and a small onion if liked. Cook until tender. Remove 
chicken, thicken stock with % cup flour ‘mixed with cold water. 
Place in casserole or baking dish. Cover with baking powder bis- 


; il done. 
cuits and bake until do Mrs. L. M. McAlister 


Chicken Pie 
Dress and cut into pieces a good fat hen. Put on to cook with 
enough cold water to cover. Salt when partly done. When tender 
remove bones and arrange meat in baking dish. Prepare a sauce 


-_of 3 tablespoons butter (melted), 3 tablespoons flour, salt and pep- 


per, 6 cups warm chicken broth and a cup of warm milk or cream, 
Pour over chicken. 


Crust 
2 cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon salt, 2 table- 
spoons butter and a cup of milk. Drop over chicken (don’t roll) and, 


bake, —Mrs. H. F. Luebben 
cll eo 


Jellied Chicken — 

Simmer 1 hen until tender in water sufficient to’ cover. 
water 1 small onion, salt and pepper and a little chopped parsley. — 
When tender remove from the bones and cut into small pieces. Cook 
broth down until a good cupful, then strain and add % box gelatine 
dissolved in a little cold water. Set aside until cold, when it: toe 


be sliced and served. 
—Mrs. 3) M. MeAlister ; 


















Tamale Pie 

Melt in skillet 2 tablespoons butter. Brown in oor 4 large een 
onions, and 1 quart of tomatoes, 2 pounds hamburger. Season with 
salt and pepper. Cook 15 minutes. Just before removing from fire 
add 1 level tablespoon mild chili pepper and one pint olives, or 
raisins if preferred. Line deep baking dish with well cooked mush. 
Pour in meat mixture, cover with mush and bake 40 minutes 
- —Mrs.H. F, Epebhetis 


Baked Pork Chops With Dressing — = 

8 pork chops 6 slices stale bread. Milk ore 
1 teaspoon salt water to moisten — 
1 teaspoon powdered sage 1 finely minced onion | 
1% teaspoon pepper = 
Saute the chops until golden brown, cover with water and sim- : 

mer gently for 25 minutes. Add enough milk or water to bread to 
moisten it. When soft, press out any excess liquid and combine — e : 
with onion, pepper, salt, sage and beaten egg. Put chops in bak-— * 
ing dish, cover with dressing and bake in a moderate oven 1% Bes Bee 
basting frequently with broth in which the meat was immersed. g 
—Mrs. J. K. Serles © 

r 


F..W. Woolworth & Co. | : : 














a 


Five and Ten Cent Goods, Specialties, Ete. et 








: oe 
531 Commercial. Street , Astoria, Oregon _ 


ae Office, Woolworth Building, New York | 


a 





{ 
{ 
{ 
2 
{ 
| Phone 371 ? 166 oth a 
Larson Daas Co., Inc. =| 
EMIL J. BJORK, Manager 
‘ MILK AND CREAM — 
oS Astoria, Oregon 


pry Hy ie 














Noodle Ring i 


2 cups uncooked noodles 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
2 eggs separated i sauce 
1 cup milk 3 tablespoons chili sauce 


~ 1 cup grated cheese 


- Boil noodles in salted water till tender. Drain. Beat e 
‘ 3 : gg yolks 
slightly and gradually pour over them the milk—add eheowi. galt 
pepper, Worcestershire and chili sauce. Add noodles, Mix thoroly. 
Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and pour into a greased ring 


~ mold. Set in pan of warm water and bake in a slow oven until 


firm. (About 50 minutes.) Fill ring with chicken a la king, creamed 
salmon and peas, creamed tuna fish. Or any other creamed com- 
binations can be served in center of the noodle ring. 

—Mrs. Carl M. Nyland 


i Meat Dish 
cup peas 1 tablespoon chopped ar- 
2 cups chopped ham or 1 sley * ae - 
cup sausage and 1 cup of ham- 14% tablespoon chopped 
burger onion 

1% cups scalded milk poured Y, teaspoon salt 
over 1 cup soft bread crumbs Y teaspoon pepper 

Y¥, cup melted butter Dash paprika 


3 eggs beaten well : 
Combine all ingredients and bake 50 minutes in a casserole. 
—Mrs, K. E. Stone 


Liver Croquettes - 
Here’s a way to cook liver so the youngsters will like it. 


Grind one pound of liver Roll in cracker crumbs 
through a meat grinder Fry in hot fat until well 
Add two eggs slightly beaten browned 


Salt and pepper 
—Mrs. H. V. Wygant 


» Meat Loaf 
11% pounds round steak run through grinder. Mix with one cup 
of bread crumbs and one egg. Add a little parsley and a small 
slice of bacon chopped fine. Season with salt, pepper, celery salt 
and a few drops of catsup. Bake about 114 hours in a closed roaster 


in a moderate oven. 
—Mrs. Emma Butts 


Veal Loaf 
2144 pounds veal and % - 1 small onion 
pound salt pork ground to- Little green pepper cut fine 
gether Season with salt, pepper and 
3 eggs blended with meat a little red pepper 


1 cup cracker meal : 
Add enough. tomato juice to moisten (ess than 14 cup). Mold into 


shape and wash with beaten egg. Bake until brown, then pour one 


- cup of water over loaf, continue baking in moderate oven for two 


ll together. 
hours all tog —Mrs. Emma Butts 


Veal Loaf 


2 Ibs. veal 1 tablespoon parsley 
¥% Tb. salt pork % cup crumbs 
2 teaspoons salt 2 tablespoons catsup 
14 teaspoon pepper V4 cup milk 

2 onions 


le : 
Chop veal fine with pork. Add crumbs and seasonings. Brown 
minced onion. Add to mixture with egg well beaten in the milk 
Mix well and pack, in bread pan and sprinkle top with few crumbs. 


i ours 
pare in slow oven for 2 hours, _rs. L. O. Engrell 


gether. Bake 1% hours, stirring often 


1 th. hamburger 2 cups cooked rice 


1 large onion (fried) 1 tablespoon butter 
i can tomatoes 1 cup bread crumbs — 


Mix ingredients except crumbs well. Place in greased biome 
dish. ane crumbs over top. Rex one hour. 


Fluff 
1 cup boiled rice ‘1 onion 
1 tb. hamburger 3 cups water 
2 cups tomatoes Season to taste 


Ar rafige req ired poached eggs on rounds of toast in eplong rame-_ 
‘kins. 
sausage to. each end and a sprig of parsley where they meet. For 
main course accompany with homing spoon bread and ee salad. 


Spread 8 slices of bread with butter. Cover four slices with ae af 
. ed cheese and sprinkle with paprika. Cover with the other 4 but- 






Japanese Pie 


—Mrs. L, O. Engell - 


Mix rice and hamburger together. Grind onion. Mix all to- eee 


‘ . 2 Mrs. VEL. iget> 
Boston Savory Eggs 


Surroun eggs with hot tomato sauce and lay a small crisp 


4 —Mrs. C. M. Nyland — - 
x e Baked Cheese Dream F 


tered slices of bread and cut in two. Place in a buttered dish and . 


f 


for % hour.’ 
—Mrs. Martin George 
toe é. ae 
5 
Siddall Hotel | Mark Siddall ea 
New, Modern, Comfortable Sporting Goods and | 
Equipped with . P gs 
“De Luxe” Springs and Hardware ; { X 
“Beauty Rest” Mattresses “Always Reliable” 1 
MARK SIDDALL, — 
Owner-Manager $ 
565 Commercial Street 524. Commercial St. _ H 
Astoria, Oregon Phone 1106 Astoria, Ore. if % 
DELIVERY SERVICE i Phone 134. 135 : a 
" aed % 
| Hanks Bros. & Ness | 
, 
| REPAIR SHOP ho 
CHRYSLER, PLYMOUTH AND DODGE a2 
| A SPECIALTY i 
| ACETYLENE WELDING—GENERAL REPAIRING ; 
Top and Body Repairing Radiator and Fender Repairing i 
565 Duane Street ~ Phone 1261 4 


_ beat 2 eggs slightly, add %2 teaspoon salt, % teaspoon paprika and 
* 2 cups of milk. Pour over cheese sandwiches and bake rich brown ~ 


























L 
T 

















wf 


‘ < 


_ Bread, Biscuits and Muffins 


“Back of the loaf is the snowy flour: 
__And back of the loaf is the mill 
And back of the mill are the wheat and the shower, 
And the sun and the Father’s will.” 


f Easy Nut Bread 
Soak one cup nut meats in cup of milk for one half hour. Add 
one well beaten egg, one half cup sugar, one teaspoon salt, two cups 
flour sifted with 2 teaspoons baking powder. Mix well and put in 
loaf tin and allow it to raise for one half hour. Bake about thirty 
minutes in moderate oven: 
: —Mary A. Bryant 


‘ Nut Bread 
1 cake Fleishmans yeast 2 tablespoons lard or butter 
1 cup milk scalded and cool- White of one egg ' 
: %4 cup chopped nuts (wal- 
1 tablespoon sugar nuts) t 
3 cups sifted flour One-third teaspoonful salt, 


One-third cup sugar 
Dissolve yeast and one tablespoon sugar in luke warm milk, add 
144 cups flour and beat thoroughly. Cover and set aside in warm 
place 50 minutes or until light. Add sugar and butter or lard 
creamed, white of one egg beaten stiff, salt, remainder of flour or 
enough to make ‘a dough. Knead well, place in greased 
bowl. Cover and set aside for about two and one-half hours to 
rise, or until double in bulk. Mold into a loaf or small finger rolls 
and place in well greased pans. Protect from draft and let rise 
again until light, about one hour. The loaf should bake 45 min- 
utes, finger rolls 6 to 8 minutes. This recipe makes one. good loaf or 
one dozen finger rolls. 

—Mrs. A. W. Metzger 


Parker House Rolls 


Sa Se ey 1 yeast( cake 1 cup mashed potatoes 
- = se 1 quart scalded milk 24 cup shortening 
cm 1 cup sugar 1 quart flour 


¥ 
v 








Mix and let rise, then add 2 quarts flour sifted with 1 teaspoon 
baking powder, 1 teaspoon soda and salt. Let rise and put in ice 


box until ready to bake. Will keep several days when cool. 
—Mrs. Geo. Pettengill 


“Wright” Biscuits — 


Measure 4 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon salt 
5 level teaspoonsful baking 1 teaspoon sugar 
powder 


Sift all together into mixing pan. Add 5 level tablespoons 
shortening and work together lightly with fingers, To this mixture 
add yolk of one egg, full cup sour milk, Wy teaspoon soda. Mix as 


i its, roll out and bake in hot oven. ; 
ee eer —Mrs. S. C. Laughlin. 


« 


Nut Bread : 
3 cups flour 1 cup milk 
2 level tablespoons baking : cup walnuts 
er ege 
Pe on of salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 


-1 cup brown sugar ; Gtake 1 derate oven 
i inutes and bake in mo : 
Let rise 20 minutes Mrs. J. C. Sparks. 


2-5 —— 


22 eee eee ooo ooo wooo oesooow oe 
Pi ee ets 

2, &. 

Ns + 
E3 Et 
e ‘o ° 
é y < 

Ae] 








FOR FINER FLAVOR IN YOUR ~ 
BAKING—USE 


Pillsbury’ S 
Best. 


FLOUR 





13 


Kenney’s Grocery — 


382 Heath Street 


“Tf It’s Good to Eat We 
| Have It” 


Delivery Service Phones 134-135 . 


cee ero ewe wo. 





Satine oon 





Beemer’s Grocery 
QUALITY GROCERIES, FRUITS 
AND VEGETABLES 


694 Alameda Street Phone 342 








# i ry 1 

Re 4 2 y A $k 

Xe lt * * + r rs ay ¥. 
pees A os ea Mie pales Vee, ae bes ea eae MAS Bhat alee & 


? ; 
a re F min 
Mare Sat i ; 
2, GS ¥ \ i x - be % 
ag ; E : f Mba she 3 f pi ERE a ee 
f oe f nies es tase } ; ; es Tae 
Sg ? ‘ ? : 
y, bes ‘ 


| 








dy Sie: ‘ 
Rip ig Sareea PON A Ty 


a 
re at Ga 


Ras ier 
ike autre 





Nut Bread 


2 cups graham flour 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup white flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups sweet milk 1 cup raisins and nuts’ 

% cup brown. sugar Pinch of salt 


‘Let raise one-half hour. Bake slowly one hour. 
—Mrs,.H. Hatley. 


; Nut Bread 
= he 242 cups flour 1 cup milk 
=. eae 1% cup sugar : 1 scant cup raisins (if: de- 
i) ‘ 2% teaspoons baking powder sired.) 
: teaspoon salt 1 cup chopped walnuts 
ege 


Mix all ingredients, let raise 42 hour in'pan. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven for about one hour. 


ave —Mrs. V. B. Rutledge. 
: eS Spoon Bread 
2 eggs well beaten 1 teaspoon soda 
1 cup sour milk 5 level tablespoons corn meal 
14% cups sweet milk Lump of Shamrock butter 
.1 teaspoon salt size of walnut. 


Grease pan and bake in. slow oven about half hour to 45 min- 
utes. Serve with ham. 


- . —Mrs. H. Hatley. 
Sour Milk Muffins 
2 cups flour ¥, teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup sour milk 
24 Y¥% teaspoon soda i eee 
saps ~ 3 teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon melted butter’ 


Sift flour, baking powder and sugar together. Beat soda into 

sour milk; add egg and add this to flour mixture. Beat until 

“smooth, add melted butter. Bake in hot greased muffin. tins 
in hot oven: 


tei —Mrs. K. E, Stone. 
Alaska Corn Bread 
1 egg, well beaten 42. cup white flour 
-1 cup boiled rice 1 teaspoon salt 
1% cups yellow corn meal 14% cups milk 
2 tablespoons shortening 4 teaspoons baking powder 


Beat egg, add rice and milk, then corn meal, flour, salt and 
baking powder sifted together. Melt shortening in the baking pan, 
Deeg pour a little more than half into the batter and stir it in. Heat 
‘the pan with the rest of the fat and pour the batter into the hot 
fat and bake for 30 minutes in a 400 degree oven. 
—Mrs. Dorrance Smith. 


Ice Box Rolls 
This is the yeast that can be kept in a coo] place and used 


as needed. j 
s, 1 cup mashed potatoes 1 cup potato water 
1 cup warm water Fleishmans yeast cake 


Y% cup sugar 

Sift three cups of flour with one-half teaspoon of salt. Rub 3 
or 4 tablespoons shortening into the flour just as in making bis- 
cuits. Use one cup of the yeast and mix, knead and roll out the 
dough, then cut out and fold over like pocket books or leave plain. 
Put in a warm place ‘to rise for about three hours or until light 
Bake 20 or 25 minutes in a medium ‘hot oven. 

—Mrs. Dorrance Smith. 





\ 


ps hy (il 





Bran Gems ; 
144 cups of bran ¥ teaspoon soda 
1 cup white flour 1 tablespoon sugar 


1 teaspoon salt (oom 
Add Scie milk enough to have a little stiffer than graham gems. 





—Mrs. R: Felt. ; 
Nut Bran Bread pes : 
Beat 1 egg with % cup sugar 2 cups bran 4 
1 pint butter milk or sour 1 cup walnuts 
milk 1% cups raisins pas 
1 level teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon baking powder series 
’% cup dark molasses 2 tablespoons melted butter — 
2 cups flour Bake 1 hour. : 
¢ —Mrs, Beemer. 
Waffles 
2 eggs Salt Re é 
2 tablespoons Crisco or other 4 level teaspoons baking 
shortening powder : See fe: 
2 cups milk 1 rounded teaspoon sugar — 


2 cups flour aes: sere 
Separate eggs and beat yolks, add milk, sugar and salt; sift flour 
and baking powder together twice. Add warm shortening and at 
the last beat whites of eggs and fold in. Will make 6 waffles : 
—Mrs. Ellen Willikson 


Graham Bread 
3 cups graham flour % cup molasses 


1 cup white flour % cup sugar 
3 cups sour milk : 3 level teaspoons soda 


Put soda in molasses, add one well beaten egg at the last; let 
stand 20 minutes, then bake. ; a) 
—Mrs. Ellen Willikson 


Luncheon Rolls 


2 cups sifted flour 1 tablespoon butter 
% cup milk 2 teaspoons sugar 
1 teaspoon salt 1 cake yeast — ; 


Dissolve yeast in luke warm milk, add sugar and salt, then ad 
the butter melted. Stir into flour gradually. Give the dough 
a hard kneading, adding sufficient flour to make it soft. Cut and 
form into rolls, place in buttered biscuit pans, put in warm place 
to rise and bake in a hot oven. 

: —Mrs. H. V. Wygant. 


Hot Water Ginger Bread 


-Y% cup sugar 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cup butter or substitute 1 teaspoon baking powder 
I egg % teaspoon soda 

4 teaspoon salt - 2% cups flour 


. 


1 cup boili 
Mix all together and pour in greased canileg tin, oe slowly. 
—Mrs. V. L. Leback ~ 
Graham Muffins 

1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 

1 cup milk . 

2 tablespoons shortening Z 
Sift white flour, sugar, salt 


1 cup coarse graham 

1 cup white flour 

4 teaspoons baking powder 

2 teaspoons sugar (or more) 

Put graham flour in bowl unsifted. 


and baking powder together. Beat e j 
ening. Stir into dry ingredients a litt oa ee ee 


i le at a time, mixi 
Pour into hot greased muffi nee Taig Well, 
minutes. Makes 12 muffins. pans and bake at 400 degrees 20 to 25 


—Mrs. Chas. Humphreys 
—18— 


Nut Bread 


3 cups white. flour 1 cup milk 

1 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons baking powder 
1 cup walnut meats 1 teaspoon salt 

1 egg 1 teaspoon melted shortening 


Beat the egg and add the milk, then add both to the mixed dry 
ingredients, The result is a stiff dough, which should stand in 
the baking pan 15 or 20 minutes before baking. Bake in a bread 
pan for an hour or perhaps longer. 

—Mrs. F. Porter 











Phone 495 


INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO 
SPECIAL ORDERS 


: 
: 
: 
| 


bow eo www wee ewww owe ww ow wee ow owe ee owe eee eoooeoe S 





eewoewowe oo ecoewowewoeowou-coewe 


SUNFLOWER 
DAIRY CO. 

















' 
a 
_.. MILK AND CREAM . 
| Phone 376 _ Astoria, Oregon 
SAFEWAY STORES 
DISTRIBUTION WITHOUT WASTE 
429 Commercial Street Astoria, Ore. 
-S DISTRIBUTION WITHOUT IRE 
429 Commercial Street Astoria, Ore. 
; be ewer oe 8 III LL = 

































Baked Brown Bread 
2 cups of sour milk 3 cups whole scent flour 
1 teaspoon of. salt 1 cup white flour veg 
14 cup dark molasses 2 teaspoons — soda . 

%- cup brown sugar 1% cup raisins 
Mix and fill baking settee eans half full and bake ase a 350 ne- 
gree oven. 


—Mrs. Rigi. Smith. : 
_ Four Hour White Bread 


3 quarts flour 1% cup sugar 

1 quart liquid (3 cups water) | 1 tablespoon salt. 

1 cup condensed milk 4 small potatoes : 
1% cup shortening 2 cakes compressed yeast 


Break yeast on two tablespoons of the sugar, add 1 sup warm — 
water. Let stand in warm place until potatoes are ready. Cut up 
potatoes in 1 pint boiling water, cover and boil rapidly. until tender. 
Mash through ricer, add balance of sugar, condensed milk, salt and 
shortening to: potato and water. Stir well, when cooled to blood 
heat add prepared yeast. Beat well and let stand in warm place 
- while flour is being warmed in oven. Make hole in middle of warmed > 
flour, pour in yeast and potate mixture, work well from middle out. 
When all flour is mixed in, dough should leave sides of bowl. Rub — 
outside of dough with warm grease, set in warm place and let rise — 
until double in bulk. Punch down several times during rising, and 
turn over to keep warm evenly.. Divide into four loaves or three — 
loaves .and one pan rolls, kneading just enough to handle the 
dough. Put in pans which have been rubbed with warm grease, 
. set in place to double in bulk.- Put in hot oven at 500 degrees until 
brown, then reduce heat and bake 40 minutes. Less time will be 
required for rolls, depending on size and shape. 

Sweet Egg Dough for Buns—Use the above recipe but double the 
‘amount of sugar and shortening and add 2 whole eggs to the yeast, 
potato mixture before putting in into the flour. This dough. may 
be used for nut bread, raisins in bread, butterhouse, crescents, butter 
rings and other fancy bread. Soe es 

—Mrs_ J. K. Serles, c pase 


: Flat Bread 
1 cup white flour. Hot water +68 make Stitt 
1 cup graham flour dough. _— 


1 tablespoon shortening Roll thin and bake 
‘1 teaspoon salt : 


—Mrs, J. is Serles. 


eer eee 


Finnish Meat Markets 


QUALITY MEATS — | 
andPOULTRY ~— 
Special Attention Given to Telephone Orders 7 
Phohe oo 

1430... 


199 to 201 Taylor Sereet! = ae Actaris: Cian 


ere 





| 
=| 
| 
| 








PPP PP Pee eee er tooo er were 


I 











—20— aes 





. 








re 
oa 


Bary 


Desserts and Puddings 


Dainty Orange Pudding 


3 tablespoons butter melted, 1 tablespoon orange juice and 
aie : 1 teaspoon “grated rind 
; ’; cup flour, mix thoroughly 4 egg yolks beaten. until 


1 cup milk,*scalded, stir un- lemon colored, add 


til boiling, add Y% cup sugar and beat again 


Combine this with the first mixture and fold in 4 egg whites beat- 
en stiff. Turn into a buttered mold and steam % of an hour. 


Sauce : 
%4 cup sugar Orange rind and juice. 2 
3 tablespoons flour oranges in all 
1% cups boiling water 
_ Mix sugar and flour, pour on boiling water, add orange juice and 
rind, boil a few minutes. 
—Mrs. Dorrance Smith 


Graham Cracker Cream Roll 


‘Two-thirds cup cream 15 or 20 marshmallows 
1 package dates Graham cracker crumbs 
1 cup nuts 
Whip cream and add dates, nuts and marshmallows. Add enough 
cracker crumbs to hold mixture together. Then make roll and roll 
in cracker crumbs. Let stand for a few hours in a cool place. Slice 
and serve with whipped cream. Will serve about 20 people. 
—Mrs. R. G. Dalgleish. 


Caramel Gelatine Dessert 


Soak 1 tablespoon gelatine in pour it- gradually into the 

16 cup water stiffly beaten whites of four 
‘Boil 2 cups brown sugar with eggs. Flavor with vanilla and 

- 144 cup water until it makes a pour into sherbet cups: Jel- 
thick syrup, then add the dis- ly will form at bottom and 
solved gelatine and bring to a froth at top. Makes ten 


' boil. Remove from the fire and glasses. 


‘—Mrs. Dorrance Smith 


: Plum Pudding 
1% pound raisins 34 pound finely chopped suet 


%4 pound currants 3 oz. mixed candied peel 
1 pound brown sugar Rind of one lemon 


-1 pound bread crumbs Cut raisins and candied peel 


4 eggs, well beaten 
Mix all dry ingredients well together and moisten with eggs. Last- 
ly add %4 cup milk and %-cup flour. Steam in buttered molds for 


4 hours. Serve with sauce. : 
—Mrs, C. W. Laughlin 


Me : Apple Kuchen 


' 2 cups flour a “3 tablespoons butter 

4% teaspoon soda em, 2 tablespoors sugar 

1 egg beaten with 1: cup of 1 teaspoon cream tartar 
milk Pinch of salt 


Sift Gry ingredients, mix in butter (like pie crust.) Add beaten 


_ egg and spread in dripping pan. Arrange apples sliced over top. 


Spread 1 cup cugar mixed with 2 teaspoons cinnamon over the top 
and dot with butter. Bake in moderate (300) degree’ oven or till 


. Serve with ice cream. : 
bes micas! ; —Mrs. R. G, Dalgleish. 


2 


es | ears 


: Date Pudding : 
2 eggs, well beaten “1 teaspoon baking powder 
% cup sugar 1 cup chopped nuts ; 
3 tablespoons flour 1 cup chopped dates 
2 tablespoons milk 
Mix well and spread in flat pan. Set pan in supine pan of 
boiling water. Bake slowly for 40 minutes, Serve with whipped. - 


cream. 
—Mrs. R. G. Dalgleish 
Carrot Pudding ; 
1 cup raisins and nuts 1 cup sugar 
1 cup raw grated carrots 1 cup flour 
1 cup raw grated potatoes Y, teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon soda in potatoes 1 teaspoon cinnamon 


Mix well and steam two hours, Serve with sauce made with one 


cup sugar, one egg, piece of butter size of an egg. Cream together | 


and add vanilla. 
__Mrs. L. O. Engell 


Angel’s Delight 


% pint cream ey sinpansatiowe 
1 small bottle Maraschino cher- - 12-14 macaroons 
ries Walnuts 


Dry macaroons in oven and put thru food chopper. Whip cream 
and add sugar and vanilla to taste, fold in cut marshmallows, cher- 
ries, remove and cut in small pieces, walnuts chopped fine and dry 


macaroons. —Mrs. W. W. Linde — 
English Plum Pudding 

34% pounds of flour 1 teaspoon each cloves, all- 
3 pounds raisins spice, cinnamon and mace | 
3 pounds currants 6 eggs well beaten 
1% pounds sultana raisins 2 pounds suet finely chopped 
% pound lemon peel 1 cup fine bread crumbs) - 
% pound blanched almonds 1 heaping pare soee baking 
% pound sugar powder 


Mix and steam for six hours. This pudding is improved by bes > 
ing made a month for more’ before using, Steam again for 1 hour % 
before using. Serve hot with hard sauce. This makes three large © 


_ puddings. 
; —Mrs. Martin George: 
& Log Roll Dessert - 
15 graham crackers crushed 15 marshmallows wat fine 
fine ¥% cup nuts chopped fine. 
15 dates cut in small pieces % pint whipped cream | 


Mix all together and roll in crushed graham crackers. Shape in- 
to a log and let stand 12 hours. Cut in slices and serve with a 
whipped cream garnish. A few maraschino cherries can be added . to. 
the above if desired. 


Macaroni Pudding ¥ i 
1 pint milk heated to boiling 1 tablespoon gelatine cece 


in double boiler ed in cold water added 
2 tablespoons sugar added to 3 eggs ” nie 


milk 


minutes, Remove from fire. - Fold in stiffly beaten whites and five 


cents worth of macaroons crumbled. When cold add one half pint 


whipping cream. 
—Ann Cosovich — 
925 aa! 






t 


—Mrs. J. Genes es 


Add well beaten yolks of eggs to milk mixture "and cook all a ao 














ne 








place in refrigerator trays. 


over it, 


‘, Z - Banana Roll 
eel bananas and cut in halves crosswise. Roll puff or flaky pie 
crust one-eighth inch thick. Cut in pieces, Dip each piece tH e 
water and wrap around half banana. Place on baking sheet and 


_bake in a moderate oven. Serve with crushed strawberries and 


Sugar 
—Mrs. H. V. Wygant 
Maple Frappe 
1 cup maple syrup 1 pint whipping cream 
6 eggs 


_ Boil syrup. ° Stir in beaten egg yolks and when thick take from 
fire and cool. Stir in well beaten whites. Lastly add whipped cream 
and fold in lightly. Turn into mold and pack in ice four hours, or 


—Mrs. Harry A. Morrow 


Mocha Roll 
2 cups graham _ crackers 1 cup nuts 
rolled fine ¥Y% pint cream whipped (add 
1 cup dates a little sugar and vanilla) 


1 cup marshmallows 
~ Mix all together thoroughly. Mold into a long roll and let 
stand two or three hours or over night. Slice and serve with whip- 
ped cream. ’ 
—Kathryne Laspa 


Baked Stuffed Apples 


6 large ‘tart red apples 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup chopped bananas Chopped nut meats 
1 cup sugar Whipped cream 


1 cup chopped cranberries 

Cut off stem end of apples, but do not peel them. Remove all 
the core and part of the pulp, leaving the walls of the cup about 
three-fourths inch thick. Mix bananas, cranberries, sugar and 
cinnamon. Fill the cavities in the apples with this mixture, cover 
with chopped nut meats and bake in oven until tender. Serve cold 
with spoonful of whipped cream on top of each apple. 

—Mrs. Chris Uhrband 


Upside Down Rhubarb Pudding 


4 cups diced rhubarb 1 egg 

1 cup sugar % cup milk 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 3 tablespoons. melted butter 
1% cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 teaspoons baking powder : 


Butter baking pan, put rhubarb and 1 cup sugar in bottom. Mix 
rest of ingredients and beat two minutes. Pour over rhubarb, Bake 
25 minutes, turn upside down and serve hot or cold. oe at 

. —Beda Fe 


New Date Nut Pudding 
34 cup white sugar % cup brown sugar 
1 cup boiling water ; : 
Put these ingredients in a pudding pan on the stove and let boil 


while mixing the following: 


1 cup flour % cup sweet milk ; 
1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup dates cut in pieces 
1 tablespoon sugar % cup nuts chopped 


Mix a batter of these ingredients. It should be thin like cake 
batter. Pour this into the pan of boiling syrup and put into a 
medium oven and bake about 20 minutes or till nicely browned. 
Cut in pieces and turn upside down with some of the syrup poured 


—Mrs. Dorrance Smith 


Sees 


Orange Custard’ Dessert | eres 
1 cup sugar - 2 tablespoons butter or 


2 tablespoons flour ‘Crisco 
1 aes milk i orange, juice and rind 
2 eges separated 
ren Pitter: sugar and flour, add yolks, milk, orange juice 
and rind, stir well and add beaten egg whites. Bake in a moderate | 


oven for 30 minutes. 




























—Mrs. Dorrance Smith | 


Puzzle Pudding 
1 cup prunes, figs or dates 1% cups sugar. 


chopped fine -2 tablespoons white flour 
1 cup walnuts, cheaper fine 4 egg whites 


Mix together sugar and flour, add fruit and nuts. Beat. eg: 
whites to a stiff froth and fold in, Bake in a slow oven 35- 40 os = 


utes. Serve hot or cold with cream: ; 
—Mrs. O. Ingebritsen ne 


Apple Faddios 
6 apples (more or less) 
34 cup sugar, cinamon and but ter 
“Slice apples in iron skillet, sprinkle sugar and pits of butte 
apples. Cover with the following: : 
Mix in order given: 1 cup cream, 1 cup sugar, 1% cups flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven until popies = 
are tender. Serve with whipped cream. ; 


Blitz Torte 
Ye cup shortening Vg teaspoon ‘salt. 
%4 cup powdered sugar 3 tablespoons wai et oe 
4 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla te: oA 
Cup flour Ye veashooe lemon extract ee 


1 teaspoon baking powder aT, 
Cream shortening, gradually cream in sugar. Add sired ‘beaten 
egg yolks and flavoring, sift flour, baking powder and salt ties 
and add alternately with the milk. Beat well, pour in two well oil iled 
deep layer pans and cover with the following meringue. ~ — = 


4 egg whites 1 cup sugar . 

_ ¥ teaspoon lemon | extract Y4 teaspoon salt ane 

Beat egg whites stiff and dry, gradually beat in sugar, ‘salt na” 
lemon extract. Spread over cake batter and sprinkle with blanched 
and shredded almonds and maraschino cherries. Bake at 350 de- 
grees for 25 minutes. Cool, put layers together with denon: fine. 


% cup sugar 2 egg yolks EES 
One-third cup flour ’-\ tablespoon butter  =———™ 
% cup water Grated rind egeae auee a Se 
i teaspoon salt ~  Jemon ; 


Blend sugar, flour salt. Add beaten egg yolks, Ree and water 
Cook in double boiler until thick. Add butter. 


Crumb Custard 


1 tablespoon butter 4 egg whites Ne 
-1 quart milk 2 teaspoons of waning: 

2 cups bread crumbs. rR tees Oh maples pore of oe 
d cup sugar sugar 
4 egg yolks 


Heat the milk, add butter and pour over en bread: crumbs. 
When softened, cool, stir in the well beaten yolks mixed with sugar 
add vanilla and bake in the moderate oven, about 350 degrees. 
Spread with a meringue made of egg whites and powdered wie Sed 
and brown delicately in a 325 degree oven. = 

—Mrs. Dorrance Smith — 








: Lemon Gelatine Dessert 
4 eggs separated 1 lemon and bit of rind 
cup sugar 1 tablespoon gelatine 
Soak and dissolve gelatine in ¥Y cup water. Beate 
ele : gg yolks and 
add sugar and lemon juice and rind. Beat egg whites and add 


dissolved gelatine. Combine mixtures and pour into 
with whipped cream. F a mold. Serve 


—Mrs. Dorrance Smith 
Caramel Fig Desserts 


3 cups boiling water Boil 15 minutes 
2 cups dark brown sugar Thicken with 3 teaspoons 
2 cups bulk figs put through cornstarch 

grinder Add 1 cup chopped nuts 


Salt to taste 


Serve in sherbet glasses when cold with whipped cream. Plain 
cake is best to serve with this dessert. Serves 12 and will keep well 
2 or 3 days. : 

—Mrs. J, C. Sparks 


_One of a Kind Sherbert 


1 orange 1 cup sugar 
1 lemon 1 cup water 
1 crushed banana 


Mix well and freeze, Increase measurements as desired. 


—Beda Felt 
Caramel Nut Pudding : 
1 cup brown sugar One-third cup cold water 
One-third cup butter One-third teaspoon salt 
3 cups boiling ,water 1 teaspoon vanilla 
6 tablespoons cornstarch 1% cup walnuts 


Cook sugar and butter together until a rich golden brown, add 
boiling water. Thicken with cornstarch mixed to a paste with cold 
water. Stir smooth and cook 45 minutes in a double boiler, stirring 
often. Add nuts and flavoring. Serve with whipped cream. Serves 


eight. 
—Beda Felt 


: Srawberry Delight 
1 box strawberries b 1% pint whipping cream 
15 marshmallows 


Crush berries and add marshmallows. Mix well and let stand a 


few hours or overnight. Before using add whipped cream. 
: —Mrs. K. E, Stone. 


Pineapple Delight 


1 can sliced pineapple 1% cup instant tapioca 
2 oranges 1 cup sugar 
1 lemon 2 egg whites 


Place in top of double boiler, sugar, tapioca, orange, lemon, pine- 
apple juices. Add sufficient water to make one quart. Cook over 
boiling water till tapioca is clear. Add pineapple which has been. 
cut in small pieces and pour over stiffly beaten egg whites, Chill. 
Pile in sherbet glasses and garnish with whipped cream and a 
cherry. —Mrs. Bruce. 


Si | Pes 





> oe 7% 
woe ee eee eo oe ow seer e caine st age Brad sth sot J 


GEE. the latest models in Gas 
Ranges at the Gas Office. | 

- Our terms are reasonable, our 

prices are right. See us about 

_ that new range. 


NORTHWEST CITIES 
GAS COMPANY — 


Store in Spexarth Building Phone 88 — 


= 





| 
| 














es CR y on 





q 














Smart Shoes at Modest Prices 


Astoria — Oregon 








Pew Tee ee eo 8 er ee ww eee woe oe oem LI PS SSO SPT OS eS. 
a oe intemal 
> <_ 





269 Commercial - . Phone 90-J : as | 





Pies, Pastries, Etc. 


eae Gece Pineapple Pie 
1 cup butter 
2 whole eggs or 4 yolks Juice 
2 fle amtitn cornstarch yOu e EE ragecee 
: ix altogether and cook until thick. When cool add the grated 
pineapple. Place in a baked crust and serve with whipped erent 
—Mrs. Frank Pfleger. 


Cocoanut Cream Pie 





o cups milk starch 
2 cup sugar 2 eggs 
Y% teaspoon salt % cup cocoanut 


2 round tablespoons  corn- 

Heat milk in double boiler. Mix sugar, salt, and cornstarch. Add 
some of the hot milk to mixture, then return to double boiler and 
boil till thick, add beaten egg yolks and boil a few minutes longer. 
Add stiffly beaten egg whites and % cup cocoanut. Remove from 
fire. Cool and add flavoring. Pour into a pastry shell. Bake in 
moderate oven until brown. 

; —Mrs. M. B. MclIrvin. 


Lemon Crumb Pie 


es slice of bread 1 inch thick 1. cup sugar 
1 cup cold water - 1-lemon 
2 egg yolks’ 1 tablespoon butter 


Trim crust from bread and soak in the cold water until soft, 
then add the lemon juice and bit of grated rind, egg yolks and 
sugar beaten together and cook over hot water until thick and add 
butter. Pour into a baked pie shell, cover with meringue made from 
egg whites and brown in cool oven, 
Mrs. Dorrance Smith. 


iF Apple Pie Pastry 
1% cups pastry flour ‘Cold water 
% cup Crisco 4% teaspoon salt ~ 
Sift flour and salt together, cut Crisco in with two knives until 
the consistency of small peas. Add only enough ice water to hold 
Divide and roll about % inch thick. 
Filling 
4 apples, medium size ¥ teaspoon salt 
1% cup sugar : _. Cinnamon and nutmeg 
Pare, core and slice the apples. Line the pie plate with pastry. 
Lay in the apples, sprinkle with sugar and spices, dot with bits of 
Crisco. Roll remaining pie crust, cover and bake in hot oven (450 
degrees) about 15 minutes, then reduce heat to moderate (350 de- 
grees until apples are soft—about 3% of an hour. 


ts level. 
amass laa —Mrs,. Oswald Gustafson. 


Lemon Raisin Pie : 
Line pie tin with good short pastry and have top rolled out 


ready to use. Filling: . : 
Grated rind and juice of one Pinch of salt 

lemon 1 heaping tablespoon corn- 
1 cup sugar starch 


well beaten ; oe 
; Mix well and add 1 cup raisins and one. cup of boiling water. 


Put in pie tin, place rolled pastry over top, being careful to pinch 
ickly. 
edges together good. Bake qu y pee 


eae | ae 





Squash Pie 















1% cup sugar 2% cups steamed end strain 

1 teaspoon salt -ed squash — z 

4 teaspoon mixed cinamon, 2 eggs slightly beaten : 
ginger and nutmeg 134 cup milk 


1 tablespoon, butter 
Mix sugar and spices and add to the hot sane Add butter. ca 


stir until melted and mixed. Add beaten eggs and milk, For a 
rich pie use half cream and half milk. Bake in crust 15 minutes — : 
in hot oven, then lower temperature .to moderate and bake until 


up 
custard is se t —Edith M. ‘Barbar. 
Sweet Potato Pie _ $ 


114 cups steamed sifted sweet 1% cups milk 

potatoes _ 2 tablespoons melted shorten- 
1% cup sugar ing 
2 eggs slightly beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla or. mixed 
Y, teaspoon salt spices to suit taste — 


Combine all the ingredients and pour in pie crust and bake. ee 
Be eediceas: Randolph. a 


Orange Meringue Pie 

2 eggs Juice and ted rind of. a 

3 tablespoons cornstarch of a medium orange  - 

1 teaspoon orange extract 1 pint milk’ 
Beat egg yolks with sugar. Moisten cornstarch with portion. ae 
milk. Scald remaining milk. Stir other ingredients into the milk — 
and cook until thick, Pour into baked shell and cover with meringue 
-made from beaten whites and %4 cup of Susan: 
—Mrs. Meisegeler. AS 








BEAUTIFY YOUR KITCHEN WITH WITH AN rare 
pl Porcelain Universal Range | 


An old inefficient stove is Sa 3 
not only trying on .the 
nerves, wasteful alike of 
time and fuel, but defies 4 
your every effort ot make  § 
the kitchen attractive. 
He ' The New Universal all 
= sf . porcelain coal range, with | 
harmonious color combi-— 
nation, not only adds a }¢. 
new touch of beauty to © 
the kitchen, but enables ¢— 
you to prepare your meals — 
with every assurance of 
success. - are 
Beauty- Efficiency -Con- 
venience - Economy march 
into your kitchen when | 
you install a Universal 
in your home, : 
LET US SHOW YOU THE COMPLETE UNIVERSAL LINE 


A. POUSTI & CO, 


¢ Phone 841 212 Tae avedae 














LLL LF LE TF LL IE LIE LE LL I EO a AY 








S21 moe 























; Chess Pies 
1% cups sugar WY cup nuts 


%2 cup butter 3 yolk 
1 cup raisins ; yolks and 1 whole egg 


Beat the egg whites stiff with 3 tablespoons su : meri 
Bake filling and crust together. é gar for meringue. 


—Mrs. C. R. Lamb. 
Rhubarb Pie 


2 cups rhubarb 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 cup sugar % teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 6 tablespoons sugar for mer- 
2 eggs ingue 


2 tablespoons flour 
Stew rhubarb in % cup sugar. Cool and add milk and egg 
yolk beaten with % cup sugar, flour and salt, Add lemon juice. Bake 
“antil almost firm. Cover with meringue and brown. 


—Mrs. A. Felt 
Pineapple Cream Pie 
Ye cup sugar 3 egg yolks 
¥g teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons butter 
6 tablespoons flour 14% cups milk 
: cup grated pineapple, Juice one lemon 
drained 


Mix sugar, salt and flour together, then add the pineapple. Add 
' the beaten egg yolks, butter and milk. Cook in double boiler until 
thick. Add the lemon juice and mix thoroughly. Cool and pour 
into baked pie shell. Cover with: 


Fluffy Meringue 
3 egg whites 6 tablespoons sugar 
Beat the whites until stiff, add sugar gradually and beat until 
the consistency of marshmallows. Pile on top of pie and brown in 
slow oven for 15 or 20 minutes. ; - 
: —Mrs. S. C. Turner. 


‘ Pineapple and Raisin Pie 

1 cup raisins 1 cup grated pineapple 

2 tablespoons flour Y% teaspoon salt 

42 cup brown sugar ‘ 

Cover raisins with water and boil until they are tender. Mix, 
sugar, salt and flour together and add. Let boil until thick, add 
pineapple. Pour into unbaked crust. Bake 25-30 minutes. 
: —Mrs, Meisegeier. 


Bridge Pie 
1 cup sugar 7 tablespoons sweet cream 
1 cup butter . : - 1 cup chopped dates 
2 eggs . % cup walnuts, chopped 


1% teaspoon vanilla 
Cream butter and sugar. Add egg yolks, cream, flavoring, dates 
and nuts. Fold in beaten egg whites. Bake in a lower crust. When 


ith whipped cream. 
mee sides: as —Mrs. R. Sinfield. 


Prune, Pie | 


1 cup chopped and pitted 1 cup water or prune juice 
prunes 1 tablespoon flour 
- 1 lemon, juice and grated % cup sugar 


2 tablespoons butter 
- Cook prunes with other ingredients until slightly thickened. 
“Add a little cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake between two crusts. Deli- 


rind 


gious served with ice cream or whipped cream. 





—Mrs. H. V. Wygant. 
play) » Hes 


Rhubarb Pie | 


1144 cups rhubarb cut in 3 tablespoons cream ; Je oe 
cubes 5 2egg yolks - ae ce eae 
1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon flour 


Mix all ingredients together and cook in double boiler until 
thickened. Pour into baked pie shell. Return to moderate oven 


and allow to bake six to eight minutes. Cover with meringue made — a 


from: 
2 egg whites beaten stiff 1% teaspoon vanilla 
2 tablespoons sugar é 


Brown in moderate oven for about ten minutes. 
—Mrs. S. C. Turner. 


Poverty Pie : 


44 cup sugar : iy 2 tablespoons of flour 
1 cup sweet milk Vanilla : : 


Yolks of 2 eggs 
Put the milk and sugar in double boiler. Mix together the flour, 
egg yolks and a little milk and add to the sugar and milk. Stir 
to keep from lumping. When thick add vanilla and remove from 
fire. Pour in baked crust. Beat whites of eggs; add 2 tablespoons 
of sugar to each egg white and spread on top of pie and brown 
slightly in a slow oven. : ee es 
—=Mrs: CR; - Lambe 


Orange Nut Pie 


1 cup orange juice. Yolks two eggs + 
% cup sugar . % cup chopped walnuts 
2 tablespoons cornstarch Few grains salt 


1 teaspoon butter Bee 
Mix all but nuts and cook in double boiler until thick. Add nuts — 
when taken from fire. Fill pie shell with meringue made from 


- 


egg whites. ; 
—Mrs. A. W. Metzger. 
Sunny Boy Pie 
3 eggs : 1 cup raisins 
1 cup sugar % teaspoon cinnamon 
1 tablespoon butter 4, teaspoon cloves 
1% cup nut meats 2 teaspoons vinegars 


_ Beat egg yolks, add to sugar. Grind nuts and raisins fine. Add _ 
spices, vinegar and melted butter. Beat well. Lastly add whites 
ee pees beaten stiff. Pour into an unbaked shell and bake in - 

ot oven. 


—Mrs. F. M. Potter. 


Chocolate Pie ait oe 
: Bake pie shell then add fill- Small teaspoon salt 
ing as follows: Two-thirds cup sugar . 
3 tablespoons cornstarch * ' 3 cups sweet milk 
2 rounded tablespoons choco- 1 teaspoon vanilla — 
late Smell lump butter 


__ Cook in double boiler, when thick pour into the pie shell. Serve . 
with whipped cream. : 


—Mrs. R. Sinfield. 


Walnut Pie 
1 cup sugar 3 egg yolks 
1 cup milk 1 teaspoon flour 
1 cup walnut. meats 1 teaspoon lemon extract 


Cook sugar, milk and flour until thick, then remove from stove, 
add walnuts, which have been chopped fine, and lemon extract. 
Line pie pan with pastry, fill and bake in quick oven. Beat ege 
whites, very stiff, add sugar and brown on top of pie. : “AS 


—Mrs. C. R. Worrel. 




















; Fresh Strawberry Pie 
Lie tee ae Oa eiee Ses 1 box crushed strawberries (mixed 
aste) in shell. pread 4% pint whi 
top and serve at once. : ae SR RT Oe 
—Mrs, L. O. Engell 


Custard Pie 


4 eggs 4 tablespoons sugar 
3 cups scalded milk Vanilla : : 


Make custard of ingredients and pour in dish lined with puff 
pastry. Bake until set, : 


—Mrs, Fritz Johansen 
Pumpkin Pie 


1% cups stewed and_ strained 2 eggs 

pumpkin 1% teaspoon ginger 
1 two-thirds cups rich milk %4 teaspoon salt 
Two-thirds cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 


__ Mix altogether and beat 2 minutes. Pour in pie shell and bake 
in &@ moderate oven. ; 
: —Mrs. Frank Pfleger 


Carmel Pie 
Two-thirds tablespoon sweet Second Part 
milk Yolks two eggs 
Cook over slow fire until waxy. 1 heaping tablespoon flour 
Two-thirds cup sugar 1144 cups sweet. milk 


1 tablespoon butter 
Mix smoothly and add to the above mixture. Cook until thick, 
stirring all the time, add pinch of salt and one teaspoon vanilla. 
Put into baked crust. Place meringue made from whites of two 
eggs on top or serve with whipped cream. 
—Mrs. Frank Pfleger 


Molasses Crumb Pie 


Liquid 2 tablespoons shortening 
Y% cup molasses 14 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 egg yolk lg teaspoon each nutmeg, 
¥% teaspoon soda dissolved in 34 ginger and cloves 
cup boiling water ¥% cup brown sugar 
Crumbs Y teaspoon salt 
%4 cup flour ‘ 
To make crumbs combine flour, sugar, salt, spices. Work in 


shortening. 

To make liquid: Beat molasses, egg yolk, soda and hot water. 
Line pie pan with pastry. Lo : 

Make alternate layers of crumbs and liquid. Top with crumbs. 

Bake in hot oven until crust edges start to brown. Reduce 
heat, bake until firm. Serve with sweetened whipped cream. 


Pastry 
14 teaspoon salt 14% cups flour® 
¥% cup shortening ; ; 
Pare flour and salt, cut in shortening with knife. Add enough 


j dients together, 
paid Water Ao hole there es —Winifred S. Carter 


Lemon Chiffon Pie 
5 eggs 1 cup sugar 
2 tablespoons water 1 lemon, juice and rind 
Beat egg yolks until light, then gradually add % cup sugar. 
Beat constantly, then add water, juice and rind of lemon. Cook 
~ jn double boiler, stirring constantly. Let cool. Add egg whites 
which have been beaten stiff with %2 cup sugar, then fold in egg 
yolks and lemon mixture. Pour in baked pie shell. Set in mod- 


Page oven and brown. —Mrs. John Mattson 


morsiey Pott 





Chocolate Pie 


1% cups milk pane: 2% level tablespoons cocoa, 
One-third cup sugar ' Pinch of salt ae 
4, level teaspoons flour Yolks two eggs 


Mix dry ingredients. Beat egg yolks and add with milk ‘to. 
dry ingredients, Cook until thick and pour into a baked shell. eee, Rg 


with meringue. 
—Mrs. J. A. Laspa 
Home Made Mince Meat 


5 bowls apples 5 bowls granulated sugar 

1 bowl molasses 2 bowls raisins 

1 bowl vinegar 3 lemon rind’ and juice 

1 bowl cider : 4 oranges, rinds of 2, juice : of 
1 bowl suet all 





Cook until tender enough lean beef to make three bowls” of. 
meat after it has been chopped fine.. Cook meat and then chop or 
grind in meat grinder. Add meat to first mixture, then add 2 
tablespoons each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg. One tablespoon 
salt, and one tablespoon pepper. Cook all together slowly Bae: about » 
one hour, then put in jars and seal. : 

6 pounds of meat makes three bowls 

1 peck apples makes 6 bowls. ; 

1 pound suet makes about one bowl. : gio ete eg 

—Mrs, C. A. aeatinee Rae 
Quick Plain Pastry. 


Put % cup shortening in a chilled bowl, work until creamy 
using a wooden spoon, add % cup cold water, 1%4 cups pastry flour 
and % teaspoon salt. Mix by cutting with a knife. 
—Virginia Randolph 











<->. Se ce 


Sooerer4 
if 


Sivst National Bank | 
Astoria, Oregon ce 
RS 


OLDEST ESTABLISHED BANK IN. ‘ 
CLATSOP COUNTY 





Cove ew ewe 





—32— A i ot 2 : 











Butter Scotch Pie 


Y% cup flour Yolks of two eggs 
Tablespoon butter 2 cups milk = 
1 cup brown sugar 


Mix sugar, flour, egg yolks and butter. Add one cup of milk to 
flour sugar and yolks. Then add mixture to remaining milk and 
water heated to boiling point. Make meringue for top. 


—Mrs. Meisegeier 
Lemon Sponge Pie 


1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup milk 2 eggs 
3 tablespoons flour Juice and rind of 1 lemon 


Cream Sugar, butter and flour, add yolks of eggs beaten light, 
then milk, Juice and rind of lemon. Lastly add whites of eggs beat- 
en stiff. Bake in rich crust in slow oven 45 minutes. 

* —Mrs, F. M. Potter 


Chocolate Sundae Pie 


1% cups Bordens milk 3 ege yolks 
YS teaspoon nutmeg 4% cup sugar 

‘ aoe to boiling point in double 1, .teaspoon salt 
oiler 


Beat and stir into milk and boil until thick % tablespoon gela- 
tine soaked for five minutes in 3 tablespoons cold water. : 


¥% teaspoon vanilla, add to boiled mixture and stir until dis- 
_ solved. Remove from fire and set in pan of cold water. When cold 
dnd ready to set beat until frothy and add to the beaten whites of 
three eggs. Mix well. Pour in baked crust and set away to cool, 
until firm. Serve with whipped cream and ground chocolate sprink- 
led over the top. 

—Bess Spicer 


: Lemon Pie 
Juice and rind of 1 lemon 1 cup sugar 
3 eggs 3 tablespoons hot water 


Cook lemon juice and rind, % cup sugar, water and well beaten 
egg yolks in double boiler until thick. : 

Beat egg whites stiff and add % cup sugar, then add cooked 
custard. Whip all together and pour into baked crust. Brown in 


oven for about ten minutes. 
—Mrs. Marshall Mattson 


Washington Pie 


3 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sugar Seibel 2 tablespoonfuls cold water 
1% cups sifted flour ‘ 

Beat eggs thoroughly and stir in sugar and water and beat well 
together, adding flour and baking powder. Flavor with vanilla. 


Bake in two shallow pans. 
Custard for Filling Washington Pie 


1 pint milk % cup milk 

1 cup sugar ¥% cup butter 

2 level tablespoons ~— corn- 2 eggs 
starch 


Boil milk in double boiler and add sugar slowly. Then add corn 
starch dissolved in the % cup milk and the well beaten eggs and 
butter. Stir constantly until thick. Remove before eggs curdle. 
Flavor with vanilla and when cool spread between the layers and 


also on top. —Mrs. Chris Uhrbrand 
ge 


Cranberry Pie : ae 

Seed a cupful of raisins and chop them into bits. Cut into ha ves 
2 cups saan and mix with minced raisins. Add 2 cups sugar, 
1 cup water, 2 tablespoons flour and a few drops lemon juice. 
Line pie plate with puff paste, pour in ingredients and cover iis 2 
pastry. Bake in a hot oven. When cold sprinkle with sugar. 
—Mrs. Fritz Johansen 


Rhubarb Pie 5 
2 cups raw rhubarb 1 tablespoon flour 


1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon water ; 
1 beaten egg Grated rind of one Teron: 





Put in crust in order given. Cover with lattice crust and bake — een 


until fruit is done. : cs 
—Mrs. James Elliott — 


Rhubarb Custard Pie 


J cup rhubarb chopped fine 1 tablespoon flour 
1 scant cup sugar 4 tablespoons water 
2 eggs J teaspoon lemon flavor 


Butter size walnut 
Mix sugar and flour, add water then beaten yolks and melted 
butter. Bake in raw crust. Beat whites and put on top and brown 
—Mrs, J. C. Sparks 


-f 


Cream Pineapple Pie 


1 cup pineapple juice 34 cup sugar 

% cup water - -.-¥% teaspoon salt _ 

Grated rind of one orange White of one egg and. yolks 
3 tablespoons cornstarch ~ of three an 
3 tablespoons water | é Lump of butter 


Mix cornstarch and water and add to hot pineapple juice. Adda 
sugar to beaten eggs, then add to cornstarch. Cook in double boil-. 
er until thick. Fill baked pie shell and cover with meringue zpage 
from two whites-of eggs. Brown slightly. 

—Mrs. R. A. Horton 


ae ‘Cream Pie 


¥ cup sugar. : 1 cup raisins 

4 tablespoons flour : -Y% cup water 

Yolks three eggs - 1 teaspoon vanilla 
One-third teaspoon salt Hs ye teaspoon - lemon extract 
2 cups milk ae 


Mix raisins and water, heat slowly and cover for five minutes. 
Blend sugar, flour, egg yolks and salt. Add milk, Cook in double 


boiler until thick and creamy. Stir frequently te prevent lumping. — 
Add the raisin mixture and cook for three minutes. Add the ex- i 


tracts and pour into baked shell. Cover with meringue. 


—Mrs. Meisegeier ee 


Rhubarb Pie 


4 cups diced, rhubarb 2 tablespoons butter 

% cup raisins 1 tablespoon orange juice ~ i Sapcaasti 
2 tablespoons flour Mix ingredients and pour in- se Pe 
‘1 cup sugar to pie shell. SP 


—Mrs. S. C. Turner 


f Hot Water Pie Crust ‘ 
7 cup shortening 14 teaspoon ale powder - 
Y%, cup boiling water ¥% teaspoon salt 
1% cups flour 
Place shortening in bowl, add boiling water, beat until smooth — 
and creamy. Add flour sifted with baking powder and salt. Stir 
until smooth ball forms. Chill until firm. 
—Mrs. J. K. Serles 








: Never Failing Pie Crust 
: 144 cups flour % teaspoon salt 
i 8 tablespoons lard (level Mix with 4 tablespoons cold 
measurement) : water 
—Mrs, C. R. Lamb 
u Kiss Pie 
5 egg whites 1 teaspoon vinegar 
“2, teaspoon cream of tartar 1 pint whipping cream 
4 1% cups sugar Flavor- 
+ Beat egg whites until they bubble, add salt, cream of tartar and 
Sina : _ Vinegar. Beat until stiff, then add sugar gradually. Divide mix- 
‘ture into two cake pans which have been buttered and dusted with 
flour. Bake 35-45 minutes in a moderate oven. When cool spread 
with mbipped cream to which any desired fruit has been added. 
—Mrs. M. T. Burkeland 


Central Meat Market 


TIENSON & MACKIE, Proprietors 








ete 


4 Courtesy, Cleanliness 


Quality vs 
21 


527 Commercial 


Sanitary Fish Market 








wweowowoe woe ew ewwoocosceoeoos 





' 
9 
| 
| 
; 
| 
| 
RAGNOLF SADOEE ES Proprietor 
Wholesale and Retail | 

Fresh, Salted, Smoked and Canned Fish 
“{F IT SWIMS, WE HAVE IT” 
GROCERIES 595 Bond Street, Cor. 14th ' 
H 

‘ 

' 

q 

{ 

] 

4 

{ 

H 

.) 

' 

) 

H 

5 


Telephone 396 


ET 





ee > ped 


S | PRAEL-EIGNER 
o TRANSFER CO. 


Phone. 221 


einen 











“She ee 
FRIENDLIEST 
Store in Town” 





Se Seo eee eS ee ewe ee 


y Hustwick Floral Ga. ) 


. Cut Flowers, Potted Plants - 
Funeral Designs 
WHOLESALE and RETAIL 
Greenhouse Phone 1277 Store Phone 157 


Seo eee 


| 
| 
| 
= 
i 
| 





wok Stationery Co. 


PETER G. COSOVICH, PROP. 


Office Supplies, Statens 
School Supplies 


Phone 1408 | Astoria, Oregon 











- Ice Cream Pie 
' 1 pint vanilla ice cream Whites four eggs 

1 can crushed pineapple 8 tablespoons sugar 
‘ Fill pie tin with extra thick crust and bake. Put ice cream in 
baked crust, cover with pineapple which has been well drained. 
Make meringue of whites of eggs and sugar. Place over pie taking 
care to seal all edges of pie. Place whole on a 2-inch plank and 
bake 20 minutes at 275 degrees. Serve immediately. 


: —Mrs. Bruce. 
Strawberry Chiffon Pie s 
1 egg One-third cup strawberries 
1 tablespoon sugar Baked tartlet shells 


Y, teaspoon salt 


Beat egg yolk in top of double boiler until light and creamy 
adding gradually sugar and salt. Cook over boiling water, stirring 
constantly, until the mixture becomes very thick. Remove from fire 
and pour onto the egg whites beaten until stiff and beat again. Re- 
turn to double boiler and stir and cook slowly until thick. Fold 
in strawberries cut in halves, pour into baked tartlet shells and put 
in a hot oven, 400 degrees F. for 10 minutes or until they are deli- 
cately browned. 

—Ella Powell 


Graham Cracker Pie 
20 Graham crackers, rolled One-third cup butter 
4% cup sugar 
Mix thoroughly with finger tips. Reserve one-third of mixture 
for top. Line pie tin with balance, pressing hard to bottom and 
sides. Bake for about ten minutes. 
‘ : Filling ~ 
2 cups milk One-third cup flour 
Y% cup sugar A Yolks of two eggs 
Scald milk, add sugar, flour and egg yolks, Cook in double 
boiler until thick. Fill pie shell with cooked filling. Cover with 
meringue made from egg whites, over which has been sprinkled 


the one-third cup of crumb mixture. Brown in oven. 
°  —Mrs. John Leahey 


Sour Cream Pie 


1 cup sour cream . % teaspoon cloves 
4, cup seeded raisins 3 egg yolks 

% teaspoonful cinnamon 1 egg white 

1 cup sugar 


Combine all ingredients and cook until thick. Pour into baked 
crust. Make a meringue with two egg whites, stiffly beaten and 


tablespoonfuls sugar. Brown in a slow oven, 
ai : —Mrs. A. B. Page 


Butter S Pie 
ay cup butter 


2 cups milk Ys 2 
14%, cup brown sugar Ye teaspoon vanilla 
3 egg yolks One-third teaspoon salt 


One-third cup flour j _ : : 
Cook altogether in double boiler until thick. Pour in baked 


= j s for meringue. 
pie shell. Use whites of egg _-Beda Felt. 


cal 


wees 
eee eww eo ow wo oe eee eee oeeeeooeerorerer 


Modernize Your Home 


BUY oe OP BUN te 
sovay Super-Automatic opay = 


a : HOTPOINT 


B81 e2 Or 0110 O errr Orr Der Or Or Grrr BrsOer Oe 


_ ELECTRIC» 
RANGE | 


“The Modern Maid for Modern Mothers” ee 1 





Ch Fas = = 
Cheap ELECTRIC COOKERY a 


S Clean | = 
Prices to Fit Ever Vv Peale 
Sizes to Fit Every Kitchen 


ONLY $5a0Q., down places 
a HOTPOINT in your home 


PACIFIC POWER & LIGHT oh — 


“Always at your service” , 





RE ee te oe ae te em i ee aoa tea ain Ge 


Cakes, Esalics Icing, 
PFdlings Bee 


“Sweet cakes and short, ginger cakes and h 
whole family of cakes.” ee en 








Wind Cake 
3 eggs, yolks in % cup water, beat until stiff. Add slowly 144 
cups sugar, beating all the time. 1% cups flour and pinch of salt. 


Beat 3 egg whites with '% teaspoon cream tartar. ‘Fold in and bake 
1 hour in slow oven. 





—Mrs. E. W. McMindes 
Scripture Cake 
4 cups fine flour (1 Kings 2 tablespoons honey (1 Sam- 


chapter 4 verse 22.) 








will have a good cake. 
according to above scripture. 
moderate oven. 


apple sauce. 





1% cups butter (Judges 5-25) 


i cups raisins (1 Samuel 30- 


2 cups figs (Nahum 3-12) 


ace cup dates (11 Chronicles 28- 


1 cup almonds (Numbers 17-8) 


uel 14-25) 

3 tablespoons baking powder 
(Amos 4-5) 

2 teaspoons mixed spices (11- 
Chronicles 9-9) - 

1 teaspoon cinnamon (Pro- 


verbs 7-17) 


1 teaspoon salt (Leviticus 2- 


2 cups milk (Judges 4-19) or — 13) 


14% cups wine or fruit juices 
(Haggai 2-12) 


6 eggs (Jeremiah 17-11) 


1 teaspoon soda in one table- 
spoon hot water (Job 22-7) 


To make the scripture spice or fruit cake follow directions given 


1% eup shortening 
One and one-third cups sugar 
2 eggs well beaten 

1 cup seeded raisins 
One-third cup walnuts 


1 cup hot strained apple sauce © 


by Solomon for training a good boy..(Proverbs 23-14) and you 
Cut fruit and nuts fine, Mix all ingredients 
When beaten, bake for one hour in a 


—Mrs, A. M. Anderson 


Apple Sauce Cake 


2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 
42 teaspoon nutmeg 
¥4 teaspoon cloves 

14 teaspoon mapleine 
Pinch of salt 


Sift flour, spices and soda. Cream shortening, beat in sugar - 


eggs, chopped raisins and nuts. 


oA cup sugar 
3 tablespoons water 


Add flour alternately with the # 
Bake in layer pans in a moderate oven. 


—Mrs, R. A. Horton 


Apple Sauce Cake Icing 
# extteh, e&S white 


14 teaspoon mapleine , 


Put sugar, water and iabeatel egg white in double boiler. Place 


over boiling water, beat with egg beater for six minutes. Remove 
from fire; add mapleine. BAR until thick enough to spread. 


—Mrs, R. A. Horton 


Sea Foam Cake 


¥% cup butter or substitute 
1 cup sugar \ 


2 cups cake flour : 
1 large teaspoon baking pow- 


Pe 3 eggs der 
ere ee, ae? poe milk %@ teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, sift in flour and baking 


with milk. Makes two layers. 
powder alternately fa 


a 
$9. 


> 








Angel Gingerbread va 
1, cup molasses 14% cups flotir® 
% cup sugar 1 level teaspoon Boda 
Y, cup butter 4 teaspoon ginger 
1% cup boiling water 
; Cream butter and sugar, add molasses and flour sifted with © 
soda, and spice. Mix thoroughly and add boiling water last. Bake 


in shallow pan. For a good dessert serve hot with whipped cream. 
— Nellie B. Hughes — 


Ridgefield, Wash. es : 


























Dayton Drug Co. | 

DEPENDABLE 1 

Druggists - ae 

S Commpret at Bleventh Phone 117 7 = 
: SAVE AND HAVE = 


United. Investors = 
Corporation = | 


Phone 1065  14th.at mae 


Setieestetieetinestinntieetinatinntinestieat 








Mynnetta E Beauty Shop 


| a Phone 306 
Marcelling, Facials 
Frederick’s _ 
Permanent Wave 
172 Sth St. 14th & Com. 


o—— 











OES 


Bee 3 i 
7, 4 
eewseewoeewoowwoowe ses eowoowooronowews 


Date Cake 


2 packages dates, cut 1 cup sugar 
1 level teaspoon soda sprinkled 1 heaping tablespoon butter 
over dates 2 eggs 
1 cup boiling water, poured over. 2,cups flour 
dates and soda mixture. Cool. 1% cups walnuts 
Vanilla 
Cream butter and sugar well. Then add rest of ingredients and 
bake in bake in a moderate oven. moderate oven, —Mrs. O. Ingebritsen 





Grants Grant’s Farm Dairy 


SUPERIOR MILK AND CREAM 
Delivered Daily 


Phone 11-F-21 
Route » No. 1 ae Box 845 





3-8 


' 
- 
| 
| 


WE DELIVER 
5 


Phone 1436 10 Bond Street 








We carry a complete line of— 
| CUTLERY, 
\\| CooKING UTENSILS, 
Fj {| GLASSWARE, 
DINNERWARE 


FISHER BROS. CO. 


12th and Bond Streets Phone 1050 


: 
| 
- 
Hemry’s Grocery - 
: 
| 
: 
eel 
| 





Bread Sponge Cake 





One-third cup shortening 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1% cup sugar A << cup flour 

1 cup bread sponge : 

1 cup raisins i Pinch of salt 


1 teaspoon soda cs 
Boil one cup raisins in water to just cover. Boil a few paltptes: 


Let cool. “Mix sugar and shortening, add bread sponge. Place flour, 
soda, cinnamon and salt in sifter. Add to rest. Add egg, then the 


raisins. 


—Mrs. A: Felt © 
Chocolate Topsy Turvy Cake ; 
- Part 1—Cake ~ 
2 eggs 1 cup pastry flour 
1 cup sugar 1, cup chocolate 
One-third cup water 1 teaspoon baking powder 
l% teaspoon orange extract 14, teaspoon salt 


3 Beat egg yolks, add sugar, orange extract and water alternately. 
Sift dry ingredients twice and add, Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites 


Part 2—Confection 
Y¥ cup butter 1 cup orange sections ; 
1 cup brown sugar 
Melt butter in frying pan. Remove from stove and add brown 
sugar and orange. Pour in cake. Bake in slow oven 30 to 40 min- 
utes. Tyrn on plate, bottom side up. Serve with baer as cream. 8 


or 10 servings. 
“ —Mrs. uv Me ‘Lebeck | is 
Feather Cake With Pineapple Frosting 


%, cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder zs 
14% cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 eggs, separated “1 teaspoon lemon — 

1% cup water 2% cups flour 


Cream butter, add sugar gradually, then egg yolks beaten until — 
thick. Sift flour once, measure, add the baking powder and sift 
three times. Add flour and water alternately to the first mixture, 
beating batter hard. Fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites and ei 
. in sheet or layers. in a moderate oven. 


Pineapple Frosting 

To a cup of grated pineapple, add a tablespoon lemon juice and 

enough confectioners sugar to make frosting stiff enough to place 

on cake. If canned pineapple is used, use the grated pulp from 
which the syrup has been drained or lessen the quantity taken. 
—Mrs. Mary Ceosovich 


Spanish Bun Cake ~ 


1% cups sugar 2 cups flour — : 
34 cup butter or crisco 1-teaspoon each of cinnamon ty 
3 eggs (reserve 2 whites for nutmeg, cloves a 
frosting) Salt 
: teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 1 cup sour milk 
water 


: - —Mrs. J . C. Sparks 
Maple Nut Cake 


One-third cup shortening ° 1% cups flour 

; cup brown sugar ¥% teaspoon salt Re 
egg 2 teaspoons a 

age ee p baking powder : 


¥ teaspoon vanilla ; 

Cream shortening with sugar, add beaten egg and milk. Mix 

dry ingredients and add to mixture, also one cup chopped walnuts or 

pecans. Bake in greased loaf pan in moderate oven 35 or 40 min-— 

utes. Cover with any maple icing and sprinkle with chopped nuts. 
—Mrs. James Elliott — 

5 ee 





23-4 


Kentucky White Cake 


% cup Seen eae short-  . 1 cup milk 

ening 1 teaspoon flavoring 
1% cups sugar 6 teaspoon salt, beat in 
3 cups pastry flour te whites of eggs 
2 teaspoons baking powder 4 egg whites 


Cream shortening and sugar. Sift together the baking powder 
and flour. Add flavoring. Then fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, 


. Turn batter into three well greased layer cake pans using any fill- 


ing desired. If baking it in a loaf cake, put in raisins, nuts, dates. 
—Mrs. Emma Butts. 











KEEP 


canpy J awson’s 


HANDY 


Se eewvoeowwn 


Confectionery 


ee DGEED GD ama 


fF = Astoria, Oregon 


: 
| 


POSS eewewreewewwssrwewowowowws ap ips die dk es ah a ana an a en 
‘ 








Keep the family healthy with 
FRIGIDAIRE 


Dahlgren, MacCartney & Snyder, Inc. 





Owl Drug Store 


PRESCRIPTION 
DRUGGISTS . 





Cook on a— 
Westinghouse Electric Range 
| 
: 
H 
{ 





12th and Commercial Astoria, Oregon 





Potato Cake Kapeg? 







2 cups sugar ; 1 cup chopped nuts - 
Two-thirds cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1% cup milk 1 teaspoon cloves at 
2 cups flour 1 teaspoon nutmeg = 
1. cup cold mashed potatoes 2 teaspoons baking powder & 
*% cup chocolate _& eggs ee st A ee 
Separate eggs, put. beaten whites in last. Bake one hour ina 
loaf pan.. This cake is best when a day old, BE ALS 
Icing pay Pes 
1 cup granulated sugar 2 cup cold water = 


Cook over low flame. Stir until dissolved. Cook until syrup — 
reaches 238 degrees F. Remove from fire, then pour over the white 
of one egg beaten stiff, beat until stiff enough to spread. Add % 
teaspoon vanilla. Me Ee ee ctee tea ge 

Burnt Sugar Cake Pat Be 

% cup white sugar, brown in frying pan. When brown put wy cup 
hot water in sugar and cook until syrup is formed. Cool, rics cee 

Cream 1% cups white sugar, and % cup butter. Add 2 well beat- — 
en egg yolks. Add syrup. Then add alternately 1 cup water with 3 = 
cups flour to which has been added 2 teaspoons soda. Add vanilla — 
and beaten egg whites. 1% cup of the white sugar can be used with 
the egg whites and only one cup creamed with the butter. Bee 

—Mrs. Oswald Gustafson _ 


Brown Stone Front Cake aan eae 3 ; 


2 scant cups sugar ’% cup cocoa : 
¥% cup shortening % cup boiling water 
2 eggs - 2 cups flour 

4% cup cold coffe 1 teaspoon vanilla ~ 


1 level teaspoon soda aoe eae 
Cream sugar and shortening, add eggs and beat well, then add cof- 


fee, Dissolve soda in a little boiling water. Put water over cocoa 
and add while it is hot, stirring all the time. Lastly add flour and 


flavoring. - .  —Mrs. M. W. Cochran _ 
Delicate Cake oe eee 
14% cups sugar 4 egg whites 
% cus Snowdrift te %2 teaspoon salt pute pe 
1 cup water ; ; ¥2 teaspoon rose or almond 
3 cups pastry flour flavoring A 


3 teaspoons baking powder 


Cream sugar and shortening thoroughly using hand. Add small _ 
amount flour which has been sifted three times with salt and. bak- __ 
ing powder, then water. and flour alternately beating well after each — 

addition. Add flavoring. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour 

into greased and floured pans and bake 30 minutes (350 de- 

grees.) Ree 
‘ Frosting 

1 tablespoon butter é orange 

Juice and grated rind of one Powdered sugar si 

Cream butter, orange rind and small amount sugar. Add juice - 
and sugar till right consistency to spread. Se ae 

Note: Pineapple or peach juice may be substituted for orange. _ 

—Mrs, Bruce. 
; Lightening Cake eS 
cup sugar 1 te r¢ ; 

1 cup flour 2. nig ais seis wets s . 

One-third cup butter : Pesce 

Melt butter in measuring cup, add eggs unbeaten, then fill cup __ 
with milk. Pour into mixing bowl and beat well. Put dry ingred- 
ients into sifter and sift into first mixture and beat for two min- _ 
utes. Add flavoring and bake in two layers. ae 

—Gertrude B. Simpson. — 
pay. ass ig Ss Pt 

















te ' Spice Cake 

cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
in cup sour milk 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
2 cup butter 1 cup chopped nuts 


2 eggs 1 cup cho isi 
: pped raisins 
1 teaspoon soda in two or three 2% cups flour 
teaspoons hot water 


Cream sugar and butter. Then add one egg at the time. Add the 


soda in hot water and then the sour milk and flour alternately. 


Add nuts and raisins. The spices are sifted with the flour. Slow 


fire. Bake one hour in large loaf pan. —Mrs. W. W. Linde 
Molasses Cake 

One-third cup shortening : 2 cups flour sifted with 
1 cup brown or white sugar 2 teaspoons soda 
‘e cup or a little less molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Cook altogether to boiling point 1 teaspoon ginger 
Add one egg well beaten Loaf or drop cakes. Moder- 
1 cup sour milk ate oven © 


—Gertrude B. Simpson 
Potato Fruit Cake 


1 cup butter 1 cup chopped walnuts 

2 cups sugar (light brown or 1 cup seeded or seedless 
white) raisins 

1 cup mashed potatoes (heap- 1% cup currants 
ed) 4 eggs * 

% cup sweet milk 2 rounded teaspoons baking 


2 cups flour sifted after measur- powder 
ing) - 1 teaspoon spices, nutmeg, 
2 tablespoons ground chocolate cinnamon and cloves 
: 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Cream butter and sugar, add potatoes and blend till creamy. Add 
eggs, milk, chocolate and spices, then add flour and baking powder 
and lastly fruit, nuts and flavoring. (Reserve % cup flour to mix 


_ with fruit and nuts before adding them to batter.) 


Bake slowly in paper lined pan for 1% hours. Pan 13 inches in 
diameter and 3 inches deep is just right. — 
—Mrs. O. P. Rankin 


Potato Cake 


2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cloves, cinnamon 

Two-thirds cup butter and nutmeg : 

44 cup milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 

2 cups flour 4 eggs, separated and add 

1 cup walnuts whites last 

Two-thirds cup scant, ground 1 cup hot mashed potatoes 
chocolate 


Cream sugar and butter, then add yolks and ground chocolate, 
then sift dry ingredients three times and pee ot pee res with milk 
in the egg whites. Bake in a moderate oven. 

ee ee : —Mrs. H. V. Wygant 
Boiled Raisin Cake 
2 cups of raisins . 2% cups of water 
Place on to boil 20 minutes. Measure water. Should be one 
cup. Return to raisins. Add two generous tablespoons butter. Let 
cool. In sifter put: 


3 s flour 1 level teaspoon soda 

i oe sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 rounded teaspoon baking 1 teaspoon cloves, (scant) 
powd ’ 14 teaspoon salt 


wder ( 
i j layers in moderate oven. 
Add % potted part and bake in two lay ecerpg te 


Hoo, CaM 


Chocolate Fudge Cake ae ig ; 





s sugar — 3 eggs 
: yer Buttes 3 teaspoons balers’ ‘powder 
1 cup milk . 1 cup walnuts eee j 
2 cups unsifted flour 1 teaspoon vanilla ae 2 
2 squares bitter chocolate | 


Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs. Mix in milk and — 
flour with baking powder. Add walnuts, vanilla and melted cho-. 


late. Bake in four layers in a moderate oven. 
a —Mrs. L. Oo. eer, 


Chocolate Sour Milk Cake Re a ae i 
2 cups brown sugar % cup hot water. oe 
Y cup shortening Y, teaspoon salt 
2 eggs 7 teaspoon soda 
3 cups flour % teaspoon vanilla 
% cup sour milk Y¥, cup cocoa - 


Cream butter and one cup of sugar. Add beaten eggs and lother — 
cup of sugar, Add milk and flour. Mix soda with cocoa and boil- 


ing water and lastly add- vanilla. Bake in moderate oven. _ 
MTs, Ft.; fa Bettendorf — 


: Siawhey Shortcake . 
3 egg yolks 2 cups pastry flour ~ 


1% cups sugar _ 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon lemon juice Whites of three eggs 


4 cup water 


Beat egg yolks, add sugar, lemon juice and water. Then add ee 


flour mixed with baking powder, Lastly fold in stiffly beaten — 


whites. Bake in 2 shallow pans. When cool split and fill with 
berries which have been slightly crushed and sweetened to. taste. Sseions 


Serve with whipped cream. 


Chocolate Angel Food Prize Cake 


Y¥, cup unsweetened cocoa. - 1 level teaspoon | cream tartar 
34, cup Swansdown flour (sift- % teaspoon salt a 
ed) 1 teaspoon vanilla Soy we 
1% cups sugar 1 tablespoon hot water 


14% cups egg whites 

Beat ege whites until foamy, add salt and cream tartar, beat un- 
til egg whites will make a peak when beater is lifted. Use snowshoe 
egg beater. 

Sift flour, cocoa, sugar together thirteen times, add’ to egg mix- 
ture, last add vanilla and hot water. Place in tube pan. Bake one 
hour in slow oven, if at end of twenty minutes it has not doubled 
or one inch above pan, increase heat. Invert pan while cooling. 

—Charlotte iL. Acton. 


Soft Molasses Ginger Cake 


One-third cup shortening 1% teaspoons soda 
1 cup brown sugar or white 1% teaspoon salt 
% cup molasses or a little less _1 teaspoon cinnamon — 


: Sees 5: | teaspoon ginger 
Cook this until dissolved and just comes to a boil. Remove from 
fire, then put in one egg, beaten. 


2 cups flour — Bake in ‘moderate oven 

1 cup sour milk , — Mrs. A. Felt — 
: Muffins teh hae 

2 tablespoons shortening 1 cup brown sugar = ——s—<C—Ssté 

1 cup sour milk Ys, cup molasses eS 

2 cups flour : 1 teaspoon soda 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup raisins Rae 

1 cup nuts Nutmeg, allspice and cloves. 


—Bernice Peterson e 





Mrs. J. A. Strain — a 























Date Sticks 
2 beaten eggs Little salt 


1 cup brown sugar 5 roundin 

g tablespoons flour 
1 cup nuts chopped Ya teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup dates chopped Vanilla | 


Mix and bake in a squaré pan in am 
: oderate oven. Dust 
with powdered sugar after cutting in small squares. 


—Mrs. J. C. Sparks 
Bran Drop Cakes 


_ 1 heaping tablespoon shorten- 1 cup bran 

ing 1t i 
g easpoon baking powder 
% cup sugar—scant %4 .cup flour 
1 egg 4% teaspoon salt 


5 tablespoons water 
Cream shortening, sugar, add beaten egg and water, to this mix- 
ture add bran, sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Work in- 
to mixture. Drop on cookie sheet. Bake 20 minutes. Delicious 
with dates added. : 
—Sara MacDonald 


Quebec 
Mrs. Moody’s Wonder Cake 
% cup butter ; 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1% cups powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
%4 cup milk 6 egg whites 
2 cups flour : Bake in three layer tins 
Fruit Filling and Icing 
1% cups granulated sugar % cup shaved pecans 
14 cup water One-third cup chopped figs 


3 egg whites 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
One-third cup muscatel raisins 
~ cut in pieces 

Boil sugar with water until syrup spins a thread at 238 degrees 
F. Add slowly to beaten egg whites, beating continually until cool. 
Add raisins, pecans, figs, vanilla. Spread between layers, on top 


and sides. 


g Lady Betty Cake 
34 cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 


1142 cups sugar 1 cup milk 

4 eggs 3 squares unsweetened cho- 
1-two-thirds cups flour colate 

Y, teaspoon salt 1 cup walnuts 


Bake one hour and a quarter in loaf pan. Make one large loaf 
about 3% inches high. Can be baked in a tube also. 


Icing 
2 egg whites 4 ounces unsweetened cho- 
2 cups confectioners sugar colate 
1% tablespoons milk 1. teaspoon butter 


1 teaspoon vanilla extract - : 
Beat whites until stiff, add sugar slowly beating well, add milk, 
vanilla and chocolate, which has been melted with the butter. Mix 


until smooth. Spread on cake. 
Fruit Drops 


2 cups sugar - 4 cups flour 

1 cup butter 3 eggs 

1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon each soda, cloves 
1 cup chopped dates and cinnamon 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, milk and flour sifted with 


i Drop from spoon on greased pan. Bake in moderate coven, © 
eee “ ., —Mrs. R. G. Dalgleish. 


Ege’ ly Meet 








Horn Toads 


14 cup butter } table milk 
sugar 
3 can a ga 1 cup chopped nuts 
2% cups rolled oats 14 cocoanut 


2 teaspoons baking powder 
Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eges, then milk coe rolled 

oats. Sift baking powder with flour and add to first mixture. Stir 

well. This will be a stiff mixture, Drop from end of spoon and onto 


lowly for the burn easily. 
greased pan. Bake slowly y Dies. ueaibct 


palo Alto, Cal. 
Quick Sponge Cake 


3 eggs well beaten 1 level teaspoon of baking 
4 tablespoons water, beat powder 
again Salt and flavoring 
1 cup sugar, beat well again Bake in a moderate oven . 
ie tae 2 —Mrs. J. C. Sparks 
Sour Cream Cake , 
14% cups sugar 3 squares chocolate ~ 
1% cups sour cream : 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 teaspoon soda 2 eggs, well beaten 
1 teaspoon baking powder 16 teaspoon salt 
2 cups flour ries 
Mix well altogether and beat well ae i 
—Beda Felt 
Gingerbread Cake as 
1 cup light molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 
1 cup brown sugar 4 cups flour 
1 cup buttermilk 1 teaspoon baking soda 
% cup butter melted Little baking powder 
1 teaspoon ginger Nuts and raisins 


Bake in slow oven 30 minutes a ie: e 
—Mrs. H. V. Wygant 


Black Devil’s-Food Cake 


Two-thirds cup Crisco * or 1 cup thick sour milk 
butter ¥% teaspoon soda 

14% cups sugar Two-thirds: cup cocoa 

3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Y% cup hot water 3 cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt 


Blend Crisco, sugar and eggs thoroughly in one operation. Beat 
cocoa in hot water until smooth and add to first mixture, Then:‘add 
milk beaten with soda and flavoring and lastly stir in flour, salt and 
baking powder, which have heen sifted together. Bake in criscoed 
8 inch layer cake pan in moderate oven (375 degrees) for about 25 
minutes. This makes a large 3 layer cake which may be iced with 
any boiled icing. 

—Mrs:-O~ Bergstrom 
Orange Sauce For Angel Cake 


Yolks of 2 eggs Ye cup orange juice 
1 cup sugar Rind of one orange 
3 heaping tablespoons flour % pint cream 
2 teaspoons butter : Pinch of salt | 


Mix well and cook until smooth. When ready to serve mix with a : 


the whipped cream and serve on Angel Food cake. 
—Mrs. R, G. Dalgleish — 
Yolk Icing ee 
: ' Mix 3 egg yolks with powdered sugar to make stiff paste and fla- 
vor. Sprinkle with shredded cocoanut if desired. 2 
—Beda Felt. 
pee tas : 














Pet 





Hot Milk Cake 
2 eggs beaten together Pinch of salt 
4 cup sugar : 1 cup flour (unsifted before 

1 teaspoon vanilla or any measuring) 

flavoring : 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Sift flour, salt and baking powder together at least twice and 
add to the egg and sugar mixture. ™% cup hot milk added last. 

__ Makes a thin dough. Bake in a moderate oven % hour. This 
makes a small cake. I double the recipe for my use. Bake in layers 
or tube pan. : 

5 —Mrs. R. A, Horton 
Little Tea Cakes for Supper 


1 cup sugar % cup sweet milk ‘ 
“2 Cup butter 1% cups flour 
2 eggs 112 teaspoons baking powder 


1% teaspoon lemon extract : 
_ Cream sugar and butter, add well beaten eggs, milk, flour sifted 
with the baking powder. Add flavoring and bake in quick oven. 
—Mrs. C. R. Lamb 
Graham Cracker Cake 


1% cups crushed and sifted 2. cups sugar (brown or 
graham crackers ~. white) 3 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup chopped walnuts 

% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 

5 eggs ; : 


Add salt and baking powder to crackers. Beat the egg yolks un- 
til thick, then stir in sugar and beat thoroughly. Add the crack- 
er mixture, the nuts and vanilla. Fold in the stiffly beaten ege 
whites, Put in greased layer tins and bake in moderate oven for 
30 minutes. Put layers together with: 


Cream Filling for Cake 


1 tablespoon corn starch 2 tablespoons powdered 
1 cup milk sugar 

1 egg yolk ¥% teaspoon butter 

1 teaspoon vanilla ¥% teaspoon salt 


Mix corn starch with part of milk. Heat rest of milk and stir 


in corn starch mixture and cook over water for 15 minutes. Add . 


beaten yolk and cook two minutes longer. Remove from fire and 
add salt, sugar and butter and vanilla. Beat well. Cool before 
spreading on cake. . 

Cover top of cake with powdered sugar or butter frosting or 


d with whipped cream. 
sprea pped —Mrs. Eli Olsen 


Orange Cake 


1 cup sugar 2 cups sifted cake flour 

1% cup butter Rind of 1 orange 

2 eggs 1 cup raisins, washed and 
Two-thirds cup sour milk put through a food chopper 


1 teaspoon soda 


Mix in order given, and bake in a moderate oven in a well 
greased shallow pan. 


Orange Icing 


Grated rind of one orange ¥, teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon lemon juice Confectioners sugar (about 
Juice of 1 orange 144 cups) 

Yolk of 1 egg 


Grate just the surface yellow of the orange and allow it to 
stand in the orange juice 15 minutes, Strain out rind, add lemon 
juice and gradually add fruit to yolk of egg slightly beaten. Stir 


in confectioner’s sugar until icing of the right consistency to 


spread. . 


—Mrs. John L. Mackie 
Sass Wei 


“ 


Lightning Cake 


3 one-third cups sifted cake Soft shortening as needed 
flour l-cup mK 8 es nae 
2 teaspoons baking powder ; 2 cups sugar Brey 


1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 


2 eggs, unbeaten ; eae ee 
Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt, sift — 


altogether three times. Break egg in cup and add enough shorten- 
ing to fill. Put all ingredients in bowl and beat hard 2 minutes. 
Bake in 3 greased 8-inch tins in moderate oven 25 minutes. Use — 

i illing or frosting. zr, mes 
ay See e : —Mrs. James Elliott 


Raisin Spice Cake 


‘1 cup brown sugar 1% teaspoon cinnamon 

4 tablespoons shortening 2 tablespoons cold coffee 

2 eggs 2% cups flour eae ee 
¥% cup sour milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 level teaspoon soda Y% teaspoon salt — a 


Y% cup New Orleans molasses SiMe neh ae 
Cream sugar and shortening, add well beaten eggs. Add coffee 
and molasses, add sour milk to which soda has been added, sift 
together flour, baking powder and salt. Add to mixture, place in 
layer pans, bake twenty-five to thirty minutes in moderate oven. 
Ice with seven minute frosting to which one cup chopped raisins 


has been added. ; 
—Charlotte L. Acton — 
Quick Coffee Cake oe 


2 cups flour 4 tablespoons shortening 

\¥% teaspoon salt 1 egg Zs 

4 tablespoons sugar % cup milk are 

1 rounded teaspoon baking 1 tablespoon cinnamon 
powder : 5 : 


Mix 2 tablespoons of the flour and 2 tablespoons sugar; rub in 
2 tablespoons shortening and reserve for the top. Mix and sift re- — 
maining dry ingredients; rub in remainder of shortening, add beaten 
egg and milk to make very stiff batter. Spread % inch thick on 
greased pan and cover with first mixture. Bake about 20 minutes. 
Add raisins if desired. eat ieeees Beas. 

—Mrs. C, "A; Reed” 











Self-Iced White Cake é 
Y, cup butter 16:cups flour SS 2s ae aS 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1% cup sweet milk 2 egg whites . eee ee 
1% teaspoon vanilla flavoring ° - Unsweetened chocolate — 


en, 


Cream the butter and sugar, add the milk and vanilla, then the © 
- flour and baking powder sifted together. Fold in the stiffly beaten 
egg whites, turn into a shallow, well greased pan and cover the sur- 
face thickly with thinly shaved unsweetened chocolate. Bake in to oa 
a moderately hot oven about 1% hour, and sprinkle with powdered — 
“sugar, aS soon as taken from the oven. % dco mie 

: —Mrs. J, K. Serles  _ 


Apple Cake 


1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder _ 
1% cups flour Sift together = =— me 


Break two eggs into cup and fill with milk, add to flour mixture. 
Flavor with one teaspoon almond extract and mix: well. Pour into | 
square baking pan and decorate with sliced apples and seedless — 
raisins, Sprinkle sugar and cinnamon over all and bake. When — 
done remove from oven and sprinkle top with powdered sugar. = 

‘This may be served as a dessert when cut into squares, topped 
with whipped cream and decorated with Maraschino cherries. © 

- —Mrs. Chris Uhrbrand | 


€& “f | 





Oat Meal Drop Cookies 


1% cups sugar 5 tablespoons sweet milk 
1 cup shortening 2 cups oatmeal 
2 eggs 2 cups flour 
1 cup raisins % teaspoon soda 
¥3 cup chopped walnuts 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Mix in order given and drop from spoon. If too thin add more 
flour. : Mrs. J. A. Beemer 
Peanut. Drop Cookies 
% cup peanut butter % cup chopped dates 
1 cup dark brown sugar 1 teaspoon. soda 
2 eggs, well beaten: 4 teaspoon each of ginger, 
3 cups flour (about) cinnamon and cloves 
1 teaspoon baking powder 2 tablespoons boiling water 


: Cream peanut butter with sugar, add eggs, add two cups flour 
sifted with baking powder and spices. Dates and soda which has 
been dissolved in boiling water, add enough flour to make a stiff 


batter, drop by spoons on oiled sheet and bake 15 minutes. 


—Mrs. J. K. Serles 
English Drop Cookies 


-1 cup shortening 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup brown sugar 1 scant teaspoon soda 

1 cup white sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup cold coffee 1 teaspoon. cinnamon 

2 cups raisins 14 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 eggs, beaten 3 ‘cups flour or more 


34 cup walnuts, chopped 


Cream shortening and sugar, Add beaten egg, then the coffee in 
which soda has been dissolved. Add nuts and raisins, then stir in 


flour, baking powder and spices which have been sifted together 


Drop from a teaspoon onto a greased pan and bake in a moderate 


oven. —Mrs. J. A. Beemer 
Sour Cream Filling 
1 cup thick sour cream 1 yolk of egg 
(very rich) Pinch of salt 


1 cup brown sugar : 
Cook until thick in a double boiler. If it does not thicken add 


corn starch or flour. —Beda Felt 
! Orange Cookies 
% cup fat * 3 tablespoons grated or 
1 cup sugar shredded orange rind 
2 eggs 4 cups flour 
4% cup orange juice 1 teaspoon flour 
Y, teaspoon salt 1% teaspoon cream of tartar 
1 teaspoon lemon extract 1 teaspoon soda 


Cream fat and sugar, add eggs and beat two minutes, add other 
ingredients. Shape into a roll, chill three hours or longer. Cut off 
thin slices and bake four inches apart on greased sheet. These are 


equally good as rolled cookies. —Mrs. J. K. Serles 
Rich Butter Cookies ; 
% cup butter % teaspoon vanilla 
One-third cup sugar 1 egg 
% cup flour 


butter, add sugar gradually, well beaten egg, flour and 
pts Sie from tip of teaspoon. Bits of nuts, candied cherries 
or pineapple: put on top of each cookie before baking adds to the 
attractiveness. One half cup of shredded cocoanut added to the 
batter makes a delicious cocoanut cookie. =—Mrs. Frank Porter 


ey 





Chocolate Prop Cookies 
1 f VY, teaspoon soda 
ene brown sugar 2 squares melted shavsiale 
1 well beaten egg 1 cup chopped nuts — foe 
_ cup milk © 1 teaspoon vanities: pees 
1% cups flour i 
Cream shortening, add the brown sugar ony, thes the Keel 
beaten egg, milk and the flour mixed and sifted with the soda. 
Stir in the melted chocolate, chopped nuts and vanilla. Drop mix- 

















ture by spoonfuls onto a well buttered pan. —Muriel L. Acton - oe 
“4 “Date Cookies — : : oe 
1 cup butter —s_—> Salt and vanilla 
1 level teaspoon soda. dis- Pee 


1 cup sugar 


14 cup sour milk solved in milk 


3. cups flour ae ee ae Rice: 

Cream butter and sugar. Add rest of ingredients. Roll .-very : 
thin and bake. eet t TER 

Filling 

1 cup dates 1 cup water 

1 cup sugar a 

Cook in double boiler for an hour or more. Beat until creamy. * 
Spread between cookies. —Mrs. M. T. BORN 


Graham Crackers. 


Cream together 1 cup sugar and a scant half cup shortening. 
Add 1 cup sour milk in which is dissolved 1 level teaspoon of soda, 

Stir in all the graham flour possible. Roll very thin, cut in is 
squares with knife and bake in hot oven until brown. Eade 

Watch carefully for they burn Bia _ —Olwen- siighes. : 
Los Gatos, California Ne 


a 





Pineapple Cookies 


1 cup shortening 3 cups flour 

14% cups sugar A little salt 

2 eggs : 1% teaspoon soda 
: 5 tablespoons pineapple 1 teaspoon baking ade 
juice % cup chopped pineapple 


1 teaspoon lemon extract 3 
Place a piece of pineapple on each cookie before baking. Drop 
with teaspoon on pan. Bake in a moderate oven. gee 

—Mrs. C. w. gen ete eee 


Sliced Nut Cookies 


2 cups brown sugar 1% teaspoons eee SING Soe sae 
1 cup butter or substitute — 1% teaspoons baking pow- ee 
2 eggs der 

3 cups flour 3 1 cup walnut. meats 


Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs and sifted dry ingre-_ a 
dients and nuts, Shape into a two-inch roll. Let stand in a cold = 
place over night. Slice thin and bake in a hot oven. _ 

—Mrs. V. L. Leback | 


4 





For Recipes of all kinds and Taner, pertaining | 
to the home, read Jane McCormick’s le in 


The Daily Messenger 


ee 








aos a 


4 


ee Guess Whats or Oat Cookies 
1 cup butter 1 tablespoon cinnamon 


















- ae brown - sugar : teaspoon vanilla ° 
; cup fil 
4 ve veeepoen soda in 2 table- 3 cups rolled oats 
eatin Cech one stand 1h b i ob: eee Dten ie aa 
S our before baking. D i 
pans by teaspoonfuls. Bake in quick oven. . ene ch srrhay 


; Brown Sugar Drop Cookies 

2 cups brown sugar Salt 

: tein uae’ (or other 3 eggs 

si ening 4 tablespoo 

Two-thirds teaspoon sodg Flour eee 3 Mie! 

Sse 8 desired nuts or raisins can be added —Mrs. L. E. Maynard 
Vancouver, Canada 


BE ey Scotch Cookies 
1 cup butter ¥% teaspoon soda dissolved 
—F : es sugar - in milk : 
2 tablespoons sour milk ee ee 

_ Cool dough thoroly before cutting out with cookie cutter. Roll 
_- very thin and bake golden brown. —Mrs. H. W. McDevitt 


Pineapple Icing and Filling 

ess Icing — 

_ To 1% cups powdered sugar add enough of the drained pulp to 
spread nicely. ae 


, 


, Filling 
- Drain juice from one can crushed pineapple and then thicken 
_ with corn starch for filling between layers. —Beda Felt 


con : Chocolate-Coffee Icing 
2 tablespoons butter (soft) late, (sweetened) 


2 cups powdered sugar : 3 tablespoons hot coffee . 
2 tablespoons ground choco- (about) 
- Mix well. Cream and hot milk may be used instead of coffee. 
, ye : i —Beda Felt 


Souffle Icing 


_ 2 1% cups sugar Whites of 2 eggs 
1 level teaspoon baking pow- 16 teaspoon salt 
der 6 tablespoons cold water 


Put all in double boiler and beat hard over hot water-for 7 min- 
utes, add flavoring and spread on cake. A few marshmallows may 
be beaten into the above if desired. —Mrs. J. C. Sparks 


Chocoate Drop Cookies: 


2 cups sugar 1 cup sweet milk 


1 cup shortening : 1 teaspoon vanilla 
4 eggs well beaten 4 teaspoons baking powder 
3 squares chocolate - 1 teaspoon salt 


- § cups pastry flour 1 cup nuts 

a pice Piorinntte and sugar. Add eggs and melted chocolate. 
Then add milk, vanilla, nuts and mix well, Add flour which has 
been sifted with baking powder. Drop by spoonfuls on hot greased 
- pans and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees.) —NMrs. Bruce 


53 





Macaroon Cake 


% cup butter eels ca Dre 
1% cups sugar a : ae ies 
: 3 6 tablespoons Ghirardelli’s — prey 


4 eggs : 
% cup milk chocolate 


134 cups flour 5 tablespoons boiling water — 

1 heaping teaspoon baking 

Dissolve chocolate in water and bring to boiling point. Cream 
butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs, well beaten, flour and bak- _ 
ing powder. Fold in chocolate and vanilla, then add well beaten 
whites of eggs. Bake in moderate oven 30-35 minutes. 


—Beda Felt 
Date Bars ear ee: 
3 eggs 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 cup sugar ; Y% teaspoon salt : we 
2 cups dates % cup chopped nuts 





t cup pastry flour Ba ; 
To the beaten egg yolks add the sugar gradually. Stir in dates, Sec 
cut in small pieces. add dry ingredients sifted together. Lastly fold Paces 
in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a sheet in a large pan. Cut Seaton 
at once in squares, remove from pan and roll in powdered sugar. een 


—Beda Felt eS 

t ‘ 5 ee 

Cookies : : ‘. 

1 cup shortening 3% cups flour oi 

2 cups sugar __ 4 teaspoons baking powder a 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon nutmeg pee 
2 teaspoons vanilla 1 teaspoon salt 


Mix thoroly and chill dough before baking. Roll thin on floured : 
board, cut with fancy cutter and bake in a quick oven. BS Se ae 
—Mrs. H. A. Bettendorf eae 


Raisin Cookies ie et ears 





1 cup shortening 1 cup raisins : M 

2 cups brown sugar 4 teaspoon salt : 

2 eggs 1% teaspoon salt : 

14 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon each, cloves, 

3% cups flour soda, nutmeg, cinnamon and se 

baking powder : rages 

Cream sugar and shortening, add well beaten eggs, milk, then Paes 
other ingredients. Drop from spoon and flatten with glass bottom ee 
which has been dipped in sugar —Alice Edner ree 

Sour Cream Cookies : 

1 egg %, teaspoon soda : 

1 cup sugar 1% teaspoons baking powder 

34 cup sour cream Y, teaspoon salt 


2 cups flour 
Beat egg until light. Add sugar and cream, then dry ingredients 
sifted together. Drop by teaspoonfuls on greased baking sheet and 


bake in quick oven 375-400 degrees F. —Mrs. O. Bergstrom 
Mocha Cream Cup Cakes © ; 
4 tablespoons sour milk 4% cup strong coffee  - 
i Seasnoct soda 1% cups flour. 3.) 
cup light brown. sugar 3 teaspoons baking powder 
1 egg and % cup milk 1 teaspoon ESPs 2 





Add soda to sour milk and mix well. Blend with bro 5 
Add yolk of egg and beat well. Mix milk and coffee and add. Sift 
salt, flour and baking powder and blend. Add vanilla to white of 
egg and beat stiff and add to cake. Bake about 20 minutes 

Makes about twenty small cup cakes. . —Mary A. Bryant 


RA Bea. - 














Salads and Dressings 





_ “To Make Them One Must Have a Spark of Genius” 


1 egg 

2 teaspoons sugar 
1 teaspoon: salt 

1 teaspoon mustard 


Mock Mayonnaise 


VY, cup mild vinegar 

1 cup salad oil 

1 cup water 

4 teaspoons cornstarch 
¥ teaspoon paprika 


Put egg, seasonings, vinegar and oil in a mixing bowl, but do not 


stir. Make a stiff smooth paste by 
Add hot paste to ingredients in bowl 


egg beater until smooth. 


cooking cornstarch and water. 
and beat mixture briskly with 
—Beda Felt 


Combination Salad ‘ 


1% or 2 cups cooked mac- 
aroni 

1% cups finely chopped let- 
tuce 

¥% cup finely chopped cab- 
bage 
3 or 4 fresh tomatoes, finely 
eut—\ ; 
1 cup cooked peas, grated 
carrots or any left over vege- 
table. 


3 hard boiled eggs, sliced 

Ys cup chopped pickles. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped 
chives or onion 

1 tablespoon parsley, chop- 
ped fine 

1 teaspoon celery salt 

Salt to taste 
_ Mix with cooked salad dress- 
ing 

Six large servings 

—Mrs, H. K. Zimmerman 


Twenty-Four Hour Salad 


1 large can pineapple (diced) 
~ % pound marshmallows 

1% cup nuts, chopped 

Maraschino cherries 

Dressing : 

2 eggs beaten 


Juice of one lemon 

44 teaspoon cornstarch 
1 teaspoon sugar 

1 cup cream 

1 pinch of salt 


' Cream to be folded in after whipping when dressing is cooked. 
‘All can be made and put away the day before serving. 


_—-Mrs. C. W. Laughlin 


Perfection Salad 


2 tablespoons Knox gelatine 
% cup cold water - 
¥. cup vinegar 
1 cup lemon juice 
~ 2 eups boiling water 


% cup sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups sliced celery 

1 cup shredded pineapple 
3 chopped -pimentos 


To vary in place of pineapple use 2 tablespoons onion juice or 


i grated onion, 2 tablespoons green’ pepper. 


—Beda Felt” 


Jellied Raw Vegetable Salad 


1 package lemon flavored 
jelly powder : 
1 pint boiling water 
2 tablespoons vinegar 
- 1% teaspoon salt § 
‘Dash cayenne 


34 cup raw carrots, finely 
chopped. ; 

1 cup raw cabbage, very fine- 
ly shredded 

2 pimentoes, finely chopped 


Dissolve jelly in boiling water, add vinegar, salt and cayenne. 
Chill. When slightly thickened, fold in vegetables. Turn into in- 
dividual molds, chill until firm, Unmold on crisp lettuce and gar- 


nish with mayonnaise. 


| 


—Mrs. O. J. Bumala 


ge oR 


Macaroni Salad 


% package macaroni soaked pieces 
and blanched 2 sweet green peppers chee a 
1 cup shredded cabbage ped 

1 cup celery, cut in small 2 pimentos, chopped 


Marinate macaroni with boiled dressing. Just before aS 
combine the vegetables and garnish with boiled dressing. j 





—Mrs. J. K. Serles~ _ ae 


Shrimp Salad Supreme 


1% cups “cooked rice 1 can pimento 
1 can shrimp 1 package lime jelly disol- 
4% cup diced ripe olives ved and set to harden - 


Use one half of jello cut in cubes, and one pimento chopped 
fine in the salad, Mix all lightly with two heaping tablespoons — 
mayonnaise. Use remaining jello and pimento cut in strips as a 
garnish. —Mrs, J. K. Serles 


eR aa 
| et Astoria Meat Market, 
: _ Price, Quality and 
| 








Service Ss 








Deliveries leave at 10 A. M. and 3 P. M. 
Phone 499 Astoria, Oregon ~ 
WHILE SELECTING YOUR-=———<o 


Fresh Fruits and Vegetables 


Enjoy a cool refreshing drink from 


Our Fountain - 
PETER PARSN 


322 Niagara Ave. ~ Phone 1342-R__ 


| 
FE 
ee 
E 
| 
| 
t 








UNION FISHERMEN’S 
Co-Operative Packing Co. 


Packers of Columbia River Canned and Mild 
Cured Salmon and Salmon Spread 


324 Taylor St.— Astoria: Oregon at 


bow ee 























. 





Cranberry Salad 


ok quart cranberries 1 cup diced apples 
2 cups water 1 cup shredded celery 
2 cups sugar 3 2¥2 tablespoons gelatine 
’, cup chopped walnuts 4% cup cold water 


Cook cranberries in water. Strain and add sugar. Add gelatine 
which has been soaked in cold water. Let stand until it starts to 
congeal, then add fruit and nuts. —Beda Felt 


Summer Salad 


6 tomatoes - 3 green peppers 

3 cucumbers 2 apples 

1. onion 

_ Slice tomatoes, cucumbers and apples, chop onions and peppers 
fine. Blend with French dressing. —Mrs. H. V. Wygant 

Cabbage and Pineapple Salad 

hss medium head cabbage Little salt 
shredded fine ; Dessert spoon of sugar 

1 small can.of grated pine- Salad dressing to suit taste 
apple 

The small seedless grapes when in season can also be added to 
the above. —Mrs. J. C. Sparks 


Fruit Salad Dressing 


2 tablespoons butter ' flour or cornstarch. 
1 tablespoonful, heaping, 1 cup pineapple juice 


Boil until thick and add % cup sugar and 3 eggs, Stir while 
boiling until the mixture thickens. Put in jar and cover. Keep 
in cool place until ready to use. Serve with whipped cream on any 
kind of combination fruit salad. Mix with cream only what is 
needed as the dressing keeps well. —Beda Felt * 


Fruit Salad Dressing 


Juice 1 can pineapple 1 teaspoon cornstarch 
Juice 1 lemon ~ % cup sugar 
_ 1 egg, well beaten Butter, size of small walnut 


Put all together in double boiler, stirring occasionally. Good for 
any kind of fruit salad. If using a large can of pineapple, use two 
eggs and a tiny bit more cornstarch. —Mrs. Emma Butts 


Sweet French Dressing 


14 cup olive or wesson oil Juice of half a lemon 
¥, cup vinegar One-third grated onion 
One-third eup catsup 1 teaspoon salt 

14 cup sugar 1 teaspoon paprika 


Put in jar and shake well until mixed, —Mrs. C. W. Laughlin 


ses, faa 


8 
% AN 
Pee 


-——— owe eo www ooo wooo wooo 


HILDEBRAND & CO. 


Furniture, Ranges, Rugs, Bedding, Aluminum — ie 
Ware, Graniteware. Linoleum 


Modern Kitchens In Modern 
Homes Are Equipped With — 


Monarch Electric 
Ranges 


{ 
| 
ee Wildebrind & Co. 
| 





Shamrock Cheese ) 3 


Ld 


FrostKist Ice Cream 


3“ € 
Quality Dairy Products | 


Manufactured By © 


Lower Colnuilas 
Dairy Assn. 


—58— 


Serer ee eee eee eoeeow oe ewe ew eee oo oe ooo woes 
} . - 


| 











4 


e) . 
_ 





LUNCHEON AND SUPPER 
‘DISHES 


Italian Beans 
1 can of (medium size) kid- 1 large onion-sliced 
ney beans 15 ripe olives—diced 
% pound hamburger 1 small can of tomato sauce 
Fry onions and hamburger in skillet, put in kidney beans, olives 
and tomato sauce. Let simmer for 30 minutes before serving, 


Serves six. —Mrs. Carl M. Nyland 
Luncheon Spaghetti Dish 
2 cups cooked spaghetti 1 medium onion 
2 cups tomatoes 6 slices bacon, chopped 


Cook Spaghetti in boiling salted water until tender, drain and 
blanch in cold water. Add tomatoes. Fry onions and bacon until 
done, add to spaghetti and tomatoes. Add dash of pepper. Sim- 


mer gently about twenty minutes, —Mrs. Oscar Gustafson 
Meat Pudding With Asparagus 
1 pound of hamburger or 1 egg 
round steak : 2 heaping tablespoons flour 
2 bunches of asparagus 3% cup milk 
1 small onion Salt and pepper 


Grind the meat real fine, add onion, salt, pepper, and egg. Add 
flour and milk slowly. Cook asparagus and save juice for sauée. 
Butter pudding dish and fill with layer of meat and then aspara- 
gus. The meat must be on the top and on the bottom of dish. Set 
in pan in hot water and bake in oven for one hour. 


Sauce 


1 tablespoon butter ; at a time 
1 heaping tablespoon flour Salt and pepper 
Add asparagus juice a little 


Add a few cooked asparagus and take off fire and add beaten 


yolk of two eggs. —Mrs. Fred L. Benstrup 
‘ Spanish Spaghetti 

1 box spaghetti 1 large onion 

1 can tomatoes le green pepper 

1 pound hamburger Salt and pepper 

% pound bacon Chili powder to taste 


Boil spaghetti until almost cooked. Fry bacon and in this grease 
fry onion, add hamburger and brown. Add spaghetti, tomatoes and 
spices. Cover and cook. —Beda Felt 


Baked Vegetable Tamale 


1% cups canned corn 1 medium green pepper, dic- 

3% cup canned tomatoes ed fine 

One-third cup corn meal 2 eggs, well beaten 

2 cups grated or finely chop- 34 cup milk ; 
ped American cheese Salt and pepper to taste 

1 medium onion, diced fine 

Mix the corn, tomatoes, cornmeal, cheese, onion and green 
pepper and let stand thirty minutes. Add the beaten eggs, milk and 
seasonings. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake in a slow 
oven for 114 hours or until firm in the center. Buttered peas may 
be used as a garnish with sections of hard cooked eggs arranged 
on platter. —Mrs. S. C, Turner 


es a 


Steamed Stuffed Cabbage Bee 


1 solid head cabbage Salt and pepper 
1 pound left over meat = tog milk sured ~ 

1 cup. diced carrots rs a 
1.onion, finely chopped Ye teaspoon mace ee 


Cut the heart out of cabhage and hollow out leaving thin s 






























bage. =I" ; whee mi ag 
Tae one cup of water and bring to boiling point. Place the cab 


age in i k one hour. Serve hot plain or with tomato sauce. 
b ge in it and coo a eee Nyland 


Ham Flakes With Macaroni 


Y% cup uncooked mararoni 1 cup milk ~- Siete 
% teaspoon pepper - 1% cup peas or 1 shred ed 
Y% teaspoon salt . pepper (ak 

1% pound boiled ham 1 egg 


1% tablespoons butter cape 
Boil macaroni, drain. Mix with ham and peas. Place in cass 

ole. Add milk and seasoning. Dot with butter. Add beaten egg. 
Bake 20 minutes in moderate oven. ss Aeveaeer 
—Mrs. J. A. Peterson 


Green Stuffed Peppers With Rice RAE eet 


1 cup rice, cook in _ salted 8 medium sized green peppers 
boiling water until tender remove stems and split length- 
Make white sauce of 3 cups wise, parboil 5 minutes inet 

of milk, 3 tablespoons of but- 1 large tin of deviled ham 


ter, 5 tablespoonfuls of flour, ¥, Te. American cheese  —_ 

salt, pepper and celery salt <n Sue 
. Mix ham, cheese, rice and white sauce, Then stuff peppers, | 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and grated cheese. Bake in oven 30. 
minutes at 375 degrees F.. Recipe serves 8. eter 3 
Mrs. C. M. Nyland ~ 


Concordia Eggs 


4% Tb. mushrooms 4 hard. cooked eggs 
2% ‘cups milk ¥, teaspoonful paprika 
\% teaspoon salt 2 tablespoonfuls butter 
3 tablespoons flour Pastry. sticks. . 


Saute mushrooms in the butter till they are tender and brown. 
Add milk and dry ingredients, to mushrooms making a _ 
white sauce. Simmer 20 minutes. Put sliced eggs and pastry sticks 
on hot platter and pour over sauce, Garnish with paprika and par- 
sley. Serve with a gelatine, carrot-pineapple salad. ae al See 
—Mrs. C. M. Nyland — 


Temato Savory 


Ys pound dried beef 3 tablespoons flour ea) 
4 tablespoons fat Y, teaspoon each salt and 
2 tablespoons chopped onion paprika : crate it 
3 tablespoons chopped celery 2 cups tomatoes _ ie 


Heat fat in frying pan, add onions, celery and beef. Cook slow- __ 
ly until browned. Add flour and cook until it has browned. Stir 
eopsten iy Add rest of ingredients and cook three minutes, Stir 
requently. Bag Wag 


—Mrs. O. P. Rankin ~ 

Stir 1 tabl f-baiterdn 3 St ie ee 
E ir ablespoon of butter in 2 cups of cooked hor se 
into buttered ramekins or baking dishes. Make a slight dovicniee 
in the hominy with the back of a spoon and into each carefully 
break an egg. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and grated cheese. __ 
Place in hot oven 400 degrees F. until egg is well set and cheese _ 
melted and a golden brown, 20 minutes. Garnish with wreaths of — 
pimento and olives. Serve with a tomato and lettuce salad. ; 


: —Mrs. C. M. Nyland _ 


Sandwich Fillings 
Chicken Sandwiches 
1 cup chicken 


_ 1 teaspoon melted butter Salt and pepper — 
1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon stock 


Cook eggs thirty td forty five minutes in water just below the 
boiling point. Take out yolks and mash as fine as possible. Add 
~ melted butter and lemon juice, finely chopped chicken, salt, pepper . 

_ and stock. Mix well together and spread. Veal may be used. 


Cheese and Orange Marmalade Sandwiches 


v4 cup cream cheese 1% cup orange marmalade 

Y, cup cream 

- Spread half slices of bread with seasoned cheese softened with 

cream and mixed with seasonings if desired. Spread other half of 

bread with orange marmalade to which a little French mustard has 
been added. Fit slices together. 




























Me 2 egg yolks 


Cheese and Anchovie Sandwiches 
10 tablespoons Parmesan 5 anchovies 
_ cheese. 10 slices bread 
Make a paste of cheese and anchovies. Spread between two very 
- thin slices of toasted bread. ‘ 


2 Fish Sandwiches 

Sardines or freshly boiled fish may be used for sandwiches. Mix 
the fish to a paste, add lemon juice to taste and moisten with 

mayonnaise. Season to taste. 


Club House Sandwiches 
For one person: 
3 Toast three slices of bread real crisp. Butter each slice. On first: 
slice place a generous piece of chicken, then another layer of toast, 
then two slices of fried bacon and two slices of tomatoes. Then 
place third slice of toast. Upon this place slices of tomatoes, mayon- 
a ie re ee garnish with three ripe olives. Place sandwich on leaf 
of lettuce. ; 


Sandwich Suggestions 


- 1 Raisins worked into cheese 
2 Chopped raisins, figs, dates or prunes and nut meats moisten- 
ed with mayonnaise or lemon juice. 
- 3 Peanut butter moistened with salad dressing and mixed ‘with 
raisins, dates, figs or bananas. 
_ 4 Equal portions olives, peanut butter, celery. Mix with salad 
dressing. 
5 Peanut butter mixed with dill, sweet or sour pickles. 
- 6 Cream cheese and chopped stuffed olives. 
7 Cream cheese and shredded pineapple. 
- 8 Tuna fish mixed with parsley, lemon juice, seasoning and a 
- jittle onion. 
-.-9 Cream cheese and chopped nuts. ° 
10 Ground boiled ham and thinly sliced pickles 
i 11 Boston brown bread with cream cheese or mayonnaise, chopped 
~ nuts and raisins. 
- 12 Pimentos, cucumbers and onions or chives, mixed with mayon- 


—61 


naise and spread on whole wheat bread. 

13 Green peppers, pimentos, olives and mayonnaise. \ 

14 Boston brown bread with minced corned beef seasoned with 
mustard and rubbed to a paste. 

15 Minced boiled ham, hard boiled eggs oe fine, chopped 
sweet , Pickles. _Mix with mayonnaise. 


MITCHELL'S | 


Will Appreciate Your Patronage 
PRESCRIPTIONS, FAMILY REMEDIES, DRUGS ean 
STATIONERY, TOILET PREPARATIONS , wis ; 5 


ICE CREAM, SODAS, SUNDAES, ze 
SANDWICHES, SALADS, PIE, CAKE, COFFEE, TEA, ES 
CHOCOLATE eS its 














HOME COOKED FOODS 
PLATE HOT LUNCHES 11 A. M. TO 2 P. M. 


R. E. MITCHELL, Proprietor ; 
585 Commercial - - - - - - Between 12th and 14th 


| 
| 
ECONOMY MARKET 


ee ~ 








QUALITY — x 
_MEATS cat ee 


SSS aia x Pot 


514 Commercial Street Phone 568 Astoria, Oregon 





REED & GRIMBERG 


Comfort and Style in Footwear 
ASTORIA, OREGON 











The Home of 


senos 


Florsheim—Vitality—A rch-Aid 


SABO: 





Presetves, Relishes, Pickles 





“The best of families have their family jars.” 


Mixed Pickles 


Place in weak brine 24 hours the following: 

3 c g: 2 quarts cucumb 

1 quart Onions, 2 quarts green tomatoes, 1 small head of cabbage 
chopped fine; 1 large cauliflower (may be left out.) 4 green peppers 
and boil. Then stir in a mixing bowl, 1 cup flour, 6 tablespoons 





mustard, 1 tablespoon tumeric powder,, 1 quart sugar. Rub in a 


little vinegar. Add additional vinegar to make 11 i 

ts in all 
Cook over a brisk fire stirring until thick Pour ec : : 
hot. Let all come to a boil. Seal hot. eRe sees 


—Mrs. R. A. Horton 
Lazy Wife Pickles 


6 large tomatoes ¥, cup spice 

6 apples : 3 teaspoons salt 

4 small onions 3 cups brown sugar 
1 green pepper 1 quart vinegar i 
_1 cup raisins 


Grind, add spices in bag and cook one and one-half hours, 
—Mrs. J. W. Wilson 


Watermelon Pickles 
Peel the rind of the watermelon and remove all the pink. Cut 
into pieces about three inches long. Let stand over night in a weak 
brine. Drain. Have ready the following liquid: 1 pint vinegar, 1 
pint water, 2 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, pour over the 
melon and cook until tender. Place in jars hot and seal. 
—Mrs. R. A. Horton 


Bread and Butter Pickles 


6 quarts sliced cucumbers « % cup olive or salad .oil 
1% quarts sliced onions cup celery seed 

1% quarts vinegar % cup mustard seed 

3% cups white sugar % cup mixed pickle spices 


; Slice cucumbers, larger ones may be peeled if desired. Slice 
onions, keep in separate pans. Place brine on both, let stand over 
night and drain. Brine is made by %4 cup salt and 1 quart water. 
Place all in kettle with spices in bag; boil until done om ne Roe 
—Mrs.A.Fe 


Dill Pickics 
Wash-and pack in % gallon jars medium sized cucumbers. To 
each jar add % teaspoon black pepper, 2 small red peppers, 2 bay 
leaves, 2 grape leaves and several stalks of dill. Boil together 6 
quarts water. 1 quart vinegar, 1 pound salt, 1 teaspoon alum. Pour 


hot over cucumbers and seal. 3 
—Mrs. Bruce 


Watermelon Preserves 
Peel the rind of the watermelon and remove’ all the pink. 
Cut in squares. Place in kettle with enough water to keep from 
sticking, boil until easily pierced. Drain, then put them in good 
thick syrup: Boil twenty minutes. Slice one lemon into the syrup. 


Seal while hot. _-Mrs. R. A. Horton 


Lazy Wife Pickles 
Wash and pack in jars small cucumbers. To each quart add 1 
teaspoon ground mustard, 1 tablespoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar (if 


+ i ld vinegar and seal. 
desired.) Cover with cold g _Mrs. Bruce 


Sweet Sliced Pickles 
7 pounds cucumbers soaked three days in brine made of 6 

cups water and one of salt. Then soak three days in fresh water. : 
Slice and simmer very slowly for two hours in the following: eee 

2 quarts water 3 pints vinegar ~ 

1 teaspoon alum 3 pounds. white sugar. 

1 pint vinegar TOA: allspice 

Stir occasionally 1 oz. cinnamon 

Have ready a syrup made by 1 oz, celery seed 


combining: f ; : lense te 
bag before adding to ingredients. Pour over — 


Place spices in 
ickles. Will keep in open jars. £eo 
a —Mrs. E. R. Sheets & 
‘Beaverton, Ore. 


Rummage Pickles ¢ 
4 large onions 3 red peppers (remove seeds) 
3 quarts green tomatoes 1 head cabbage 
2 quarts ripe tomatoes 2 ripe cucumbers 


4 bunches celery ; 
Chop the vegetables, mix and cover with 1% cup salt. Let stand 


over night. Drain well and add 2 quarts vinegar, 2 pounds brown nae 
sugar, 1 teaspoon each mustard and pepper. Cook until clear See 


(about one hour.) 
—Mrs. F. W. Miller Peo 
Cumberland, W. S. ees 








Pickled Cucumbers Sa ee 
Slice 50 small cucumbers 3 tablespoons celery Soap ES 

16 small onions 3 teaspoons mustard Beil 

Soak in salt water 1 hour 3 teaspoons ground ginger 





Make a syrup of 3 pints vinegar and three cups of sugar. Put 
cucumbers in and heat to boiling point and seal in ane 3 Be a 
—Mrs. C. R. Lamb ede 


‘ 


Sliced Green Tomato Pickle Sela ees ae 


- 6 pounds green tomatoes — 4 cups sugar 
(sliced) Sprinkle with salt and 2 tablespoons white mustard 
let ‘stand over night, In the seed : 
morning drain and wash. 2 tablespoons celery seed ; 
3 pounds onions 2 tablespoons ground mus- 
2 quarts vinegar tard x 
Let all come to boil, then drop in tomatoes and onions and cook 
until tender. Seal in glass jars. 
—Mrs. Bruce 
Chow Chow ‘ 
1 peck green tomatoes 6 large onions 
2 large cabbage heads 6 green peppers 


Chop fine and let stand in salt water over night. Drain, then 
add 2 quarts vinegar, 4 cups sugar, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, 1 table- : = 
spoon cloves, 2 tablespoons white mustard seed, a little cayenne. =e, 
pepper, Let mixture get thoroughly heated and can. pte 

—Mrs. R. A; Horton 


Pepper Hash 

3 green peppers _ 6 onions, medium 
4 red peppers 

Put thru food chopper; cover with boiling water and let stand 

for 5 minutes. Drain well. Add: 

2 cups vinegar -. 1 tablespoon celery seed 
2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons salt 
1 tablespoon mustard seed 

Boil 20 minutes and then put in jars and seal. Fie 

—Mrs. W. W. “Linde i 


‘—64— 





“ 


Piccalilli 


oe ates tomatoes as 3 small onions 

4 cup Sa 1 green and 1 red pepper 
1 pint chopped celery 14% cups brown sugar 
1% cups vinegar ¥, cup mixed spices 


Grind, mix with salt and let stand all night. ices i 
and cook 2% hours. ght. Add spices in a bag 


—Mrs. J. W. Wilson 
Tomato Catsup 


1 gallon: tomatoes (ripe) tard 
cooked, and strained 1 small red pepper 
4 tablespoons salt 1 small onion 
-1% tablespoons pepper 1 quart vinegar 
14% tablespoon allspice Boil until thick and seal 


3 tablespoons ground mus- 
—Mrs. C. W. Laughlin 


Pineapple Relish 


Juice of one can of pineapple 2 sticks of cinnamon 
1 cup cider vinegar 12 whole cloves 
1 cup sugar 


Boil ten minutes then add quartered pineapple and let sim- 
mer ten minutes longer. Delightful with all meats. 
—Mrs. M. T, Burkeland 


India Relish 


3 large apples ground fine 1 Ib green and red peppers 
3 carrots, ground fine 3 cups vinegar 
3 onions, ground fine 3 tablespoons cinnamon 

B 12 green tomatoes ground 3 cups brown sugar 

ine 


Soak all but carrots overnight in salt. Cook carrots until ten- 
der. Mix other ingredients and bring to boil. Thicken with % cup 


flour. 
—Mrs. J. W. Wilson 
Indian Relish 
% peck green tomatoes 6 onions 
ae » 1 head (medium size) cab- 2 green peppers 
 bage eet 2 red peppers 
- Chop and let stand over night with one half cup salt. To the 
re! mixture add the following: 
Baines 2 quarts vinegar 2 tablespoons mace 
2 stalks celery 2 tablespoons cinnamon 
4 quarts sugar 2 tablespoons allspice 
2 tablespoons mustard seed - 1% tablespoons tumeric 
2 tablespoons celery seed Boil two hours and seal 


2 tablespoons whole cloves : 
—Mrs. C. W. Laughlin 


Sunshine Preserves F 
Weigh berries and sugar, using %4 as much sugar as berries, 
Pour sugar over berries and let stand over night. In the morning 
drain juice off and bring to a boil. Put berries in and boil five 
minutes. Do this for three succeeding mornings. Put in jars, seal 
lace in sunshine a few hours. : 
me P 5 —Contributed. 


Orange ceeadengies it ae 
1 whole orange 1 whole lemon 
Slice thin and cut in little pieces with scissors. Add three 
tirnes as much water as fruit; let stand all night and next day boil 
ten minutes. Set away until the following day. Then add as much 


[ it and boil in small quantities until it jells. 
sugar as you have fru | don i ga os 



































‘Orange and Peach Jam” 


9 oranges “- 2°42 eups suga 
35 peaches (about) — 2 cups water — $ 
Mix grated rinds and fruit cut in pieces with th water an : 
sugar and boil % hour. Seal in small jars. ss. i i ag oa age 
7% Fess rs. By 


Prune and Orange Conserve __ # 

6 Ibs. prunes Ui ate atta cut fine 
4 Ibs. sugar pee es dd nuke Re half hour 
2 Ibs. raisins ae ser ected pe ae = 
3 oranges run thru grinder se aC 2H Sw 
ree es —Mrs. < 





Tomato Seder 


5 pounds tomatoes ‘§ 3 inches stic ¢ 
34% pounds apples ¥ teaspoon salt 
2 cups vinegar i 2 cups sugar 


Put tomatoes and apples thru food chopper. — 
dients slowly until thick. Seal in glass jars. _ i 
—Mrs. w. w. “Lina 


Rhubarb and. Pineapple Conserve 


1 aac shredded pineapple oe oranges ete £ 
4 quarts diced rhubarb 3% quarts sugar = 
Place the pineapple in kettle, add the rhubarb, "juice and 
of the oranges, add the sugar and cook until thick. ul in 
jars. ; : 





ge Ww. 
Rhubarb and Orange Marmalade — 
1 quart rhubarb - “ihe tablespoon ] eS uice 
4 seedless oranges “ge ge 1 Rh od. 
3 Tbs. sugar ; rind 


i : Mrs, 3.1 Ws) or 
aot Com Relish 5. a ska 
10 cups corn a ; 4 tablespoons white mustard 
10 cups cabbage : seed XG 
2 large red or green peppers 3 aide tablespoons celery seed 
3 tablespoons salt See gallon: vinegar diluted.) 





3 cups sugar. 
Cut corn from cob. Cut cabbage and peppers fine. M 
and cook 14 hour. Seal nile: ‘hot. _ Makes gout quarts. 


Bsa ti Gaps ee Buen 





CANDY 


“Sweets to the sweet, farewell.” 





2 cups bro Sovak 
wn sugar Butter si 
4 cup feck size of walnut 
oi until it forms a soft ball in water. Remove from the fire 
and stir until its begins to thicken. Then add 1 tablespoon vanilla 
and % cup chopped nuts. Turn on buttered pan and mark in 
Squares or drop from spoon on waxed paper. 


—Mrs. R. A. Horton 


Mexican Caramels 


: ‘Put cup of white sugar into iron skillet with one cup of rich 
milk or cream and one cup brown sugar. Boil until mixture forms 
soft ball in cold water. Take from fire and add cup of nut meats. 
Stir to a creamy consistency. Pour into shallow pan. Mark while 
warm. 


—Mrs. H, V. Wydant 


Candy 


In handling or pulling boiled candies the hands should be well 
buttered to prevent the mixture sticking to them. 
Butter the kettle an inch or two down, in which the candy is 
ime to prevent it boiling over. It will not rise above the buttered 
ne. ; ; 
Cream of tartar should not be added until syrup begin to boil. 
Put butter into candy when it is almost done. 


Taffy 
2 cups sugar : 1 tablespoon butter 
2 pound can corn syrup Pinch of soda 
¥ cup vinegar 2 teaspoons vanilla 


Boil sugar and syrup until it gets a little thick and add vine- 
gar. When nearly done add butter and soda. Remove from fire 
and add vanilla. To test, it must be crisp in cold water. 

: _  —Mrs, H. V. Wygant . 


Molasses Pop Corn Balls 
Boil together one cup granulated sugar, one-half cup of water, 
teaspoonful vinegar for five minutes. Then add two tablespoonsful 
molasses, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful bacon 
grease. half teaspoonful salt. Boil until a few drops in cold water 
become hard and brittle. Take from fire, stir in popper of corn, 
and form into balls. 


Date and Nut Candy 
2 cups white sugar 1 cup chopped dates 
1 cup milk “% cup nuts 
Boil sugar and milk until it forms a soft ball, then add chop- 
ped dates. Boil until it forms a firm ball. Take off stove and let 
cool until it will just melt butter. Then beat and lastly add nuts. 


—Mrs.A.J Hemingson 
Sour Cream Candy ; 
sugar lo cup nuts 
ae deat Butter and extract 


‘sour cream 
: eau cer and cream a few minutes, then add butter and cook 


until thick or until it forms a soft ball. Remove from fire, add 


i . Turn on buttered tins. 
extract and beat until creamy Eppes beens re RE 


a Be 





















Oregon a gti Sane Ppa is 

Melt without moistening 1 cup white sugar. ‘Care 

taken to avoid burning.) When melted add 4 cup melted 

1% cups hot milk, a pinch of soda and a little salt and tw 
cups sugar, Cook until it forms a soft ball in water 

turn into buttered platter. Nuts may be added if desir 


; Seafoam ists wets ase 
2 cups sugar 4% cup Karo syrup 
Y cup water slabel) 2 poh hae 
Boil together until it forms a soft ball in water. Then b 
egg whites stiff, and pour 42 of the syrup mixture over the. 
Then boil the other half until it forms a hard ball in cold wate 
and add this to the egg mixture. Beat hard. Add vanilla and 2 cup — 
nut meats. Coloring if desired. Put on a buttered platter and 
cut in squares, GS MSW WwW. Linde 


; Walnut Fudge “ 
1 cup brown ‘sugar 1 cup walnuts 
1 cup white sugar Butter size of walnut 
¥% cup rich milk - Pinch. of salt ge Oe 
Boil until it forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. R 

move from stove. Cool in water. Add nuts and beat until crea: 


Basic Recipe for Fudge Making _ a thy 
3 cups sugar _ Good sized piece of butter 
1 cup water ; eee 
Cook until it forms a soft ball in water. Take off stove and 
let stand until you can bear the knuckles to touch it. Stir aroun 
and around. When thick put out on bread board and knead. To — 
this recipe you may add 3 tablespoons cocoa for chocolate fudge 
and raisins may be added. For brown sugar fudge use 114 
brown sugar and 4% cup white sugar. To this cocoanut mé 
added, For burned sugar fudge use 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar 
has been burned. Nuts may be added. «~ —Mrs. Bruce 
Divinity Fudge Es eas 
3 cups of sugar % cup boiling water- 
2 cup white Karo syrup Pas eases 
Cook this mixture unti it will form a cracked ball. Beat 2 egg 
whites and add a pinch of salt. Pour the syrup slowly into 
beaten egg whites and then beat until it loses its gloss. Add nuts 
and flavoring and spread on buttered platter. — = 


—Minnie Ambler 


; Peanut Butter Candy 

3 cups white sugar  % cup milk 
2 rounded tablespoons pea- Pinch of salt 
nut butter Sa SFY 
__ Let boil until it forms a soft ball in water. Beat until cool, turn 
in buttered pans and mark in squares. —Mrs. R, A. Horton 
- 4 5 han Keeleys Ties Soe raf ie 
pound powdered sugar 1 cake swe te 
Melt butte oes eg ee 
e utter and chocolate and add sugar. Roll in balls. Dip in| 
melted bitter chocolate to which a small piece of ieee dS 
been added. Let stand until hard. Nuts may be added if desired. _ 
_—Mrs. R. Meisegeier 
—63— Se ee a 





Divinity 






























cups sugar : 
cup Karo syrup 
Boil until hard when dropped in cold water. Beat whites of three 
gs. Pour in syrup slowly and beat until cool. Add one cup 
opped walnuts. Mark into squares before set. —Bess Spicer 


ete _. St. Nicholas Candy © 
envelopes acidulated gela- = 1% cups boiling water. 
baie oP : ; 1 cup cold water 
cups granulated sugar : 
eh oak gelatine in cold water 5 minutes, add boiling water. When 
dissolved add sugar, Boil slowly 15 minutes. Divide and cool in 
ishes for. various flavoring— vanilla, almond, lemon, nuts, 
chopped dates or figs. Let stand over night. Turn out and cut in 
quares. Roll in powdered sugar, Let stand to crystallize in un-~ 
overed pans. —Mrs. R. Meisegeier 


One-third cup water 


Se . Cocoanut Kisses \ 
- % cup sugar ; VY, teaspoon salt 
1% cups shredded cocoanu Ys cup rich milk 
1 tablespoon flour -% teaspoon vanilla 


_ ¥% cup nuts, chopped : 

- Combine all dry ingredients, add milk and vanilla and mix well. 
_ Drop from a teaspoon on to a pan lined with oiled paper, bake in 
moderate oven 350 until light brown, about 30 minutes. Remove 


from pan and shape into balls while hot. — 
re : : —Ardabelle Thompson 


ae, ; Chocolate Fudge 

1 tablespoon butter 34 cup rich milk 
_2 squares chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cups sugar % cup nuts 
~ Melt butter and chocolate in a saucepan over hot water. Add 
sugar and milk. Remove pan from hot water and let cook without 
stirring until a soft ball may be formed in cold water. Set aside 
- to cool. When the pan is cool enough so that you can lay your 
hand against it and it feels just comfortably warm, begin to beat. 
When it begins to thicken add vanilla and nuts and keep on beat- 


3 : il i rd to beat. Pour out in buttered pan. 
ass beng os ne pain ee —Vesta Lamb 


~ —69— 


Household Fin: 


Everything odd, dizzy or queer, all that was leit tumbled in here. * . 


Cleaner for Paint 


Wash wood work with equal parts of coal oil and vinegar it 
takes very little.) Wipe and polish with dry soe ; 


Hand Lotion oe 
2 oz. glycerine 10 cents yo sum me ig 


3 oz. rubbing alcohol canth 
1 gram German cologno 1 pint warm water — 


Pour warm water over gum tragacanth and let stand fér 24 Si 


hours, then mix with other ingredients and it is Stes? to use. 


Spot Proof Recipe Cards 


After making sure your recipe cards are just right and won't = 
have to be changed, give them a thin coat of transparent shellac. — 


This will keep them clean in spite of greasy fingers and spill overs. an 


Two Bits Regarding Onions 


If celery stalks or leaves are rubbed well on the hands after me 
peeling onions and before washing, the strong scent will vanish. 
Drinking cold coffee or chewing a few coffee beans or cardamon % 
seeds after onions will kill the odor on the breath, %e 


New Ties for Old ae 
If men’s ties are basted all around the edge (not just ieoueh = 


the center) so as to hold the interlining in place they can be 55 


washed and ironed and look as fresh as new. Press before pulling — 
basting and afterward remove marks of thread. — ae 


Household Hints ; 

A little soda put in onion or cabbage when Lae will prevent 
the odor going through the house. “ 
A little vinegar put in when boiling chickens that are old or 
meat that is tough, will make them tender. 


To chop suet easily, sprinkle it with flour. It prevents matting : 
together. 


To keep lemons fresh, put them in cold water and change ities ae 


water every other day. 


When it is difficult to run rods through curtains, place a thimble 


over the end of the rod. The curtain will go through like magic. 


If part of an aspirin tablet is added to water in which you place. ae 
cut flowers, they will keep much longer. Sse 


Library Paste 
(Safe and Keeps Well) 


1 cup flour --1 teaspoon glycerine — 3 
2 cups water 1 teaspoon (about) oil of 
1 teaspoonful powdered alum wintergreen or cloves 


Mix flour in cup of water (warm or cold, warm is quicker) put 3 


in covered bowl or deep bowl and beat with egg beater. Then add 
rest of water boiling hot and alum. Beat up and add glycerine 


and cook. Stir occasionally. Let it cook well. Take from stove and 


add wintergreen or cloves. Seal in small jars at once. a lane air- fee 


tight. 
any? ee 

















Se 
: 


Siem 
= 











Miscellaneous 


What Every One Should Know 


A little lemon, a few drops add piquancy to many a dish. 
A little lemon juice does wonders to a host of dishes. 


Creamed oysters lose the strong fishy flavor if a few drops of 
lemon Juice are cooked with the cream sauce. 

Fried .sweet potatoes sprinkled with a few drops of lemon juice 
and then a little sugar after they are put into the frying pan are 
immensely improved. 


When boiling old potatoes which are apt to get dark, put a table- 


spoonful of milk in the water, they will be beautifully white when 


cooked. 


Rinse glasses in warm water to which has been added a few drops 
of bluing and polish with soft cloth—it adds much luster. 


A fine window wash—take one-third water, two-thirds vinegar— 
polish quickly with soft cloth—they stay clean longer than with any - 
other process. 

Grass stains may be removed by washing in spirits of camphor. 

Hydrogen peroxide will remove ink stains. Sometimes takes sev- 
eral applications. Lay goods in sun. 

Ink stains may be removed from the fingers by rubbing spot with 
a sulphur match and washing with soap. 

Perfumed olive oil sprinkled on library shelves will prevent mold 


on books. 
Tables of Weight and Measure 
2 cups- pntoer-<. packed: solidly 2 2.3. Senn Ee ee Tt. 
BECTIDS “DASULY ALOU ccs ivast seas conc nese tere cacti tes pale sece= sek Suscmsentorwagt 1 tb. 
2-cups 2£raniuiaved + Sugar? 3242 See bn i eee eee 1 Ib. 
2 ZaP CUPS DOW OCTEUS UAL tcckes cist Neck pete haat vece ee cde un ptotaeseoatean 1 Ib. 
Be CUTS COLOR rs anne ert ea pt CA IET rescanntieh ease gn oo 1 Ib. 
2 Mpa SY ch ng 4 | sam see Ap ROR PCE ARS ONES ok mE TSE WERE Otay Pesen 1 tb. 
Tsquare Baker's: chocolate 4225 seek ee Rg ee een 1 tbsp. 
CDSE DUC ek oa tes ree cae aS 2 ue ue pe ocner ce comeeeauceaen 1 oz. 
Sle otc holy Let y | tek peael tears int aeRO EaI te aie eam er ae a i Pee MBO feat eee 1 oz. 
Portions 
1 cake serves 20 tc 25 people. 4 


1 Ib. coffee serves 40 people. 

1 can peas or corn serves 6 to 8 people. 

1 gallon ice cream serves 20 to 25 people 

1 Baker’s loaf of bread makes 16 sandwiches. ‘ 
1 Ih. beef serves 4 people. 


er fe eae 


Pies, Pastries, ete. 


m4 ae aps Teing, 


mee ete, 
%: - Candy 


a 


"Household Hints 








ot et 


his 
J 2a Bg ‘| 4 My ( ee 
fife vi d.) i 


ie 
i 


3 
SRNR 4 
i Lit 


de Ca I 4 i 


te 


Ae 


‘ tl 
iv pe He 
jas wh, 


Oe ) i} 
hare 





