**;>■ 


'oV 


*bV" 


P      •i^T.      -^ 


fTT*     A  <V»     -o..«      .G*  V    *<TVV4     A  <»*...»«      ,GV  *b     *'TT«' 


*>  %  ^y . .  v$s-  y  v^-y 


"0  v* 


<r.    'o . ,  *     gv         %b    *; 


•  *  •       *\ 


■^0* 


l0  -7*.       'I^Hk^^*         <o 

^   ,'0•0     <r 
•L^L'»     ^  V     . «  •  ■> 


'»..*.  ,GV  *b    *'T?^*'  A 


^oV* 


.n"^     .0...     "*•„ 


.«>     .....  "<0. 


^V 


"*U 


.A» 


4  o 
k*     ** 


^     . 


Food  Administration 
SUPPLEMENT 

With  Sub-Supplement 
for  the  Fuel  Administration 


THIS  SUPPLEMENT 

is  prepared  principally 

from  bulletins 
issued  by  the 

U.  S.  Food  Administration 

together  with  bulletins 
of  the 

Fuel  Administration 
Department  of  Agriculture 

of  the  U.  S.,  and  of  New  York 
and  other  States 

The    contents    are    of    serious 
import  as  bearing  on  the  im- 
mediate needs  of  our    country 
in  the  War  Situation 


Current  as  of  Date 
July,    1918 


SI 


The  following  pages  will  be  changed  with 
subsequent  editions 

for  the  purpose  of  adapting  each  edition  as  fully  as  pos- 
sible to  the  latest  current  doctrines  and  recommenda- 
tions of  the  U.  S.  Food  Administration,  the  Department 
of  Agriculture  and  other  national  and  state  commissions 
and  bureaus  in 

helping  the  public  solve  the  special 
economic  problems  relating  to  the 
disturbed  conditions  to  which  the 
American  public  must  now  and 
shall  be  compelled  to  continue  to 
make  constant  readjustment. 

It  is  thought  best  that  the  main  body  of  the  volume 

shall  not  be  too  far  amended  to  fit  these  changing  con- 
ditions. The  Home-Keeping  Book  is  intended  for  a 
permanent  addition  to  the  home  library.  The  text  of 
the  book  should  remain  as  it  is  compiled,  to  fit  usual 
and  normal  times,  amended  only  to  fit  changes  which 
will  or  should  become  permanent  in  our  manner  of  life. 

The  "home-keeper"  however  positively  must  take 
into  consideration  and  put  into  practice  during  the 
national  emergency  the  special  economies,  the  substitu- 
tions, and  the  spirit  of  co-operation  in  the  stoppage  of 
waste  and  other  conservation  measures,  as  are 

specially  outlined  in  the  pages 
of  this  SUPPLEMENT 

The  Home-Keeping  Book 


AUG  -I  1918 


S-2 


©CI.A501342 

■ 


CONTENTS  OF  SUPPLEMENT 

IN  THE  ORDER  OF  APPEARANCE 

Page 
Until  Next  Harvest — Food  Administration  Bulletin S-   4 

Ways  in  Which  Women  Can  Help: 

With  the  Local  Marketing  Problem S-   6 

Application  for  Food  Administration  Membership    S-    7 

Federal  Food  Administrators,  Various  States    S-   9 

Home   Card — Department   of   Agriculture    .     S-10 

Fifty-Fifty— Speakers'    Bulletin— On    Wheat S-l  1 

The  Wheat  Situation — Food  Administration  Publicity S-l  3 

Choose  Your  Food  Wisely — U.  S.  Food  Leaflet S-l 4 

Household   Conservation — Food : 

Guard  the  Food  Supply    .  .     S-l  6 

Why  We  Must  Send  Wheat — Food  Administration S-l  7 

War  Economy  in  Food: 

Suggestions  and  Recipes;  Substitutions;  Planning  Meals; 

Victory  Breads,   Recipes S-20 

Wheat  Saving  Program  for  the  Household — Food  Administration   S-23 

Victory  Breads — Food  Administration S-25 

Wheat  for  Liberty — Food  Administration: 

Wheatless   Breads  and  Cakes .      S-26 

Save   Sugar — Use   Other   Sweets S-32 

Make  a  Little  Meat  Go  a  Long  Way S-33 

The  Fish  Situation — Food  Administration S-35 

Wheatless  Recipes — Food   Administration S-37 

Use  Barley — Save  Wheat. 
Miscellaneous  Recipes  for  Savings. 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures — Food  Administration S-49 

Home  and  Club  Study  on  Food  Conservation S-53 

Food  in  War  and  Peace Food  Administration. 

Ten  Lessons  on  Food  Conservation — Food  Administration. 

Bulletins — From   All   Sources S-58 

For  Reference  Purposes: 
Department    of    Agriculture,    U.    S. 
Department   of   Agriculture,    Iowa. 
Department    of    Agriculture,    New   York. 
Cornell   Reading  Course,    New  York. 

Fuel  Administration  Sub-Supplement    S-69-78 

Early  Buying  of  Coal  and  Conservation. 
Emergency  Fuel  from  the  Farm  Woodland. 
Five  Ways  of  Saving  Fuel. 


S  3 


UNTIL  NEXT  HARVEST 


UNITED   STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 


Washington,    April,    191S 


Now  is  the  hour  of  our  testing.  Let  us  make  it  the  hour  of  our 
victory — victory  over  ourselves ;  victory  over  the  enemy  of  freedom 
— Home  Card,  1918. 

The  following  restrictions  are  a  military  necessity: 

Cut  down  the  consumption  of  wheat  by  at  least  one-half. 

Households  keep  within  a  weekly  allowance  for  each  person  of  one  and  a 
half  pounds  of  flour  and  all  other  wheat  products. 

Public  eating  places  keep  within  the  same  allowance  for  every  twenty-one 
meals  served;  not  more  than  two  ounces  of  wheat  products,  flour  included,  to  be 
served  to  a  guest  at  any  one  meal. 

Retail  purchases  of  flour  to  be  limited  in  quantity  and  to  be  accompanied  by 
at  least  equal  weight  of  other  cereals. 

Bakers  to  keep  within  70  per  cent,  of  flour  formerly  used;  three-quarter 
pound  loaves  to  go  as  far  as  the  pound  loaf  usually  does. 

No  wheat  to  be  used  in  manufacturing  for  anything  but  food. 

Let  all  who  can  go  without  wheat. 


THE   WHEAT   SHORTAGE 

The  wheat  situation  is  the  most  serious  in  the 
food  supply  of  the  Allied  World. 

Our  harvest  was  less  than  estimated;  needs  of 
the  Allies  are  greater  than  were  calculated;  losses 
by  sea  and  by  battle  have  been  heavier  than  were 
anticipated;  less  conies  from  the  Argentine  than 
had  been  hoped;  tenser  demands  on  shipping  space 
restrict  ships  more  than  ever  to  the  shortest  haul 
and  the  tightest  bulk. 

We  have  fallen  behind  in  our  program.  Be- 
cause corn  and  oats  were  so  tardy  in  coming  to 
market,  we  have  not  been  able  to  ship  as  much  as 
we  should,  we  have  eaten  further  into  our  stock 
of  wheat   than   we  would. 

Corn  cannot  be  shipped  now.  We  have  sent  it 
as  fast  as  we  could  and  we  will  again.  But  dur- 
ing the  next  two  months,  the  season  of  germina- 
tion, it  will  not  do  to  ship  corn there  is  too  much 

spoilage  in  shipment. 

There  is  no  margin  anywhere.  The  Allies  have 
wheat  to-day  but  their  stocks  are  down  to  the  dan- 
ger point.  We  dare  not  let  anything  stop  the  flow 
of  wheat  overseas.  That  would  be  disaster  greater 
than  defeat  of  an  army. 

We  must  send  wheat — and  more  wheat — and 
more.  To  redeem  our  obligation  we  must  cut 
down  by  half  our  own  consumption  of  wheat. 

WHO   SHALL  BEAR  THE  BURDEN 

Going  without  wheat  is  an  inconvenience noth- 
ing worse — for  homes  in  comfortable  circum- 
stances. 

It  is  no   hardship — no   danger.      Physiologists   all 


agree  that  a  wholesome  diet  need  not  include  wheat. 
The  South  fought  the  Civil  War  three  years  on 
corn.  Early  New  England  did  without  wheat  five 
years  at  a  time  with  no  ill  effects. 

Going  without  wheat  is  perhaps  more  expense, 
certainly  more  work.  Not  a  hardship  but  a  bur- 
den.     Who  shall  bear  the  burden? 

Shall  we  ask  the  women  of  France  to  do  it? 
Do  you  know  what  it  means  to  them? 

The  women  of  France  are  doing  their  own  work, 
doing  the  nation's  work,  even  doing  the  work  of 
teams  in  the  field. 

The    men   are    gone all   but    the    younger    boys, 

the  aged  and  the  invalids.  In  almost  every  home 
is  a  cripple  or  one  dying  of  tuberculosis — an  added 
care. 

French  homes  have  not  baked  bread  for  hun- 
dreds of  years.  They  have  not  even  ovens  nor 
baking  tins  in  their  kitchens.  They  rely  on  the 
bakery. 

If   you   ask   them   to   bake   their   own   bread — for 

the  bakery  cannot  supply  quick  breads the  women 

of  France  must  add  another  hour  to  their  long 
day  of  toil. 

Will  you  ask  them  to  do  that?  Or  shall  our 
homes  carry  the  extra  burden  of  doing  without 
wheat? 

WHAT  TO  DO  WITH  THE  FLOUR 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  wheat  flour  goes  into 
two    and    a    half    pounds    of    Victory    bread.       That 

gives    just    about    two    slices    for    each    meal with 

nothing  over  for  cake,   pastry  or  anything  else. 

One  pound  of  wheat  flour  goes  into  one-and- 
three-quarter     pounds     of     Victory     bread,      which 


S-4 


SUPPLEMENT— UNTIL  NEXT  HARVEST 


S-5 


makes  twenty-eight  one-ounce  slices,  or  four  a  day. 
That  leaves  half  a  pound  of  wheat  flour  for  cake, 
pastry,    macaroni,   and   incidental  cooking. 

Muffins    and    biscuit medium    size made    on    a 

fifty-fifty  recipe,  use  a  quarter  ounce  each  of  wheat 
flour. 

A  fair  slice  of  cake  or  a  piece  of  one-crust  pie, 
also  on  a  fifty-fifty  recipe,  likewise  takes  about 
one-quarter  ounce  of  wheat. 

An  ordinary  serving  of  wheaten  breakfast  foods, 
or  a  half  cup  of  cooked  macaroni  or  spaghetti  con- 
tains an  ounce  of  wheat. 

Wheatless  meals  and  days  kept  as  before,  and 
Victory  bread  at  the  remaining  ten  meals,  will  use 
about  twelve  ounces  of  wheat. 

Going    without    wheat    at    other    meals or   at    all 

meals — let  potatoes,  rice,  hominy  and  other  cereals 
take  the  place  of  bread,  or  bread  may  be  eaten 
that  contains  no  wheat. 

Food  Will  Win  the  War!  Food  to-day  means 
first  of  all  Wheat. 

DOING  WITHOUT  WHEAT 

Bread  and  milk  make  a  meal;  so  wil  lmush  and 
milk. 

Bread  and  gravy  go  together;  potatoes  and  gravy 
are  just  as  nourishing. 

Toast  and  fruit  are  fine  for  breakfast;  but  any 
other  cereal  with  fruit  will  stay  the  stomach  as 
effectively. 

Griddle  cakes,  muffins,  all  sort  of  quick  breads, 
can  be  filling  and  appetizing  without  any  wheat. 

After  all,  what  we  have  to  do  is  eat  less  bread. 
Often  we  eat  it  to  convey  other  food;  we  even  use 
bread  to  push  mouthfuls  upon  the  fork. 

There  is  one  test.  Wherever  bread  is  used  for 
convenience,  that  is  the  place  to  leave  it  out. 

Habit  tells  us  to  use  bread;  the  body's  needs  tell 
us  only  to  provide  sufficient  nourishment.  We 
must  learn  to  think  in  terms  of  nourishment  and 
net   let   habit  hinder   us. 

Changing  our  habits  is  none  too  easy.  But  it  is 
no  easy   task  to  win   the  war. 

Going    without    wheat    wherever    we    can    is    one 

thing    we    can    do    to    win    the    war perhaps    the 

largest    contribution    we    can    make. 

LET   ALL   WHO   CAN   DO    MORE 

The  best  we  can  do,  it  will  not  be  enough  to 
meet  all  needs.  We  cannot  make  up  the  subma- 
rine losses,   nor  replace  the  spent   reserves. 


Doing  our  utmost,  not  everyone  in  this  country 
can  keep  within  the  allowance.  Masses  in  crowded 
cities,  with  no  proper  kitchen  outfits,  depend  on 
bakery  bread  and  ready  cooked  food.  Their  habits 
are    controlled    by    their    circumstances. 

Those  who  can  must  do  more  to  maintain  the 
margin. 

Some  wheat  in  any  case  must  be  brought  from 
Argentine,  the  less  the  better.  For  every  voyage 
to  the  Argentine  is  the  same  as  taking  two  vessels 
from  the  short  Atlantic  ferry.  Every  vessel  taken 
from   that   traffic    keeps  a    regiment   from   the   front. 

Going  without  wheat  adds  directly  to  our  forces 
in  battle.  Going  without  wheat  loosens  the  ship- 
ping tension  which  limits  our  armed  strength. 

A  splendid  response  comes  instantly.  Hundreds 
of  hotels  have  pledged  themselves  to  go  without 
wheat  until  harvest.  Households,  communities, 
countries  all  over  the  land  have  cut  down  wheat  to 
the  limit  or  given  it  up  altogether. 

But  the  best  we  can  do  is  too  little.  Let  all 
keep    within    the    allowance;    let    all    who    can,    do 


WHEAT  IS  THE  TEST 

Germany's  war  of  starvation  is  a  challenge  most 
of  all  to  America. 

Against  Germany's  lust  for  dominion,  America's 
purpose  is  to  establish  the  society  of  nations. 
Against  destruction,  America's  aim  is  healing. 
Against  mastery,  America's  ideal  is  service. 

We  cannot  surpass  the  steadfastness  of  Britain, 
the  courage  of  taly,   the  exaltation  of  France. 

We  cannot  excell  the  Allies  in  heroism,  in  en- 
durance, in  fortitude.  Our  force  in  battle — though 
it   may  be  decisive — will   not   be  as   great   as   theirs. 

We  can  hope  to  contribute  most  to  the  common 
cause  from  our  larger  resources.  To  relieve  des- 
perate privation,  America  can  supply  food. 

Giving    up    wheat    is    a    little    thing    compared    to 

their    death    struggle in    which    our    soldiers    are 

splendidly  sharing. 

A  little  thing — yet  we  can  do  it  with  greatness 
of  spirit.  Supporting  our  army  and  adding  whole- 
hearted service  to  humanity,  it  is  in  America's 
power  to  defeat  forever  the  passion  of  conquest. 

Now  is  the  hour  of  our  testing.  Wheat  is  the 
Test. 


WAYS    IN    WHICH    WOMEN    CAN    HELP 
WITH  THE  LOCAL  MARKETING  PROBLEM 

1  .  Study  existing  local  conditions — not  for  the  purpose  merely  of  criticiz- 
ing, but  rather  for  the  purpose  of  trying  to  improve  marketing  facilities. 

(a)  Study  the  general  system  used  in  handling  foodstuffs  locally. 

(b)  Learn  the  various  agencies  engaged  in  the  business  and  the  services 

performed,  as  well  as  the  costs  assessed  by  each. 

2 .  Co-operate  intelligently  with  dealers,  in  endeavoring  to  improve  market- 
ing conditions,  and  be  willing  to  do  your  share  to  effect  betterments.  Consumers 
are  largely  responsible  for  expensive  and  wasteful  retail  marketing  practices,  and 
they  must  help  if  such  practices  are  to  be  eliminated. 

3 .  Concentrate  attention  on  the  elimination  of  waste  in  home  marketing. 

(a)  Curtail  ordering  by  telephone  so  far  as  possible. 

(b)  Never  ask  unnecessary  credit  or  delivery  service. 

(c)  Encourage  local  grocers  to  adopt  a  system  whereby  a  low  cash  price 

is  placed  on  goods  at  the  store  and  fair  charges  made  for 
credit  and  delivery.  This  places  the  cost  of  credit  and  delivery 
on  those  who  use  it  and  gives  the  housewife  who  pays  cash  and 
carries  her  packages  home  a  price  concession  for  so  doing. 

(d)  Develop  the  marketing  habit — personally  superintend  the  buying  of 

foodstuffs. 

(e)  Study  comparative  food  values  and  food  substitutes. 

(f)  Do  not  get  into  the  habit  of   asking    for   the    "best"    of   everything. 

Usually  one  can  find  perfectly  satisfactory  goods  among  the 
less  expensive  grades  after  a  little  experiment. 

(g)  Check  up  weights  and  measures  of  all  purchases. 

(h)  Study  the  comparative  advantages  of  "bulk  vs.  package  goods,"  and 
when  bulk  goods  of  satisfactory  quality  offer  a  saving  insist  on 
your  dealer  carrying  them  in  stock. 

4.  Work  through  your  organizations  to  interest  your  newspapers  in  fur- 
nishing reliable,  non-technical  market  news  and  market  hints  for  housewives. 

Such  a  service  should  keep  you  informed  in  regard  to  the  supplies  of  prod- 
ucts entering  the  market  and  the  prices  which  your  dealers  pay,  and  offer  sugges- 
tions as  to  the  best  time  to  can,  preserve  or  store  for  winter  use.  In  this  service, 
special  effort  should  be  made  to  inform  consumers  ahead  of  time  of  impending 
gluts  of  certain  products,  so  that  plans  can  be  made  for  utilizing  them. 

If  such  an  arrangement  cannot  be  made  through  newspapers,  try  to  ar- 
range a  substitute  service  whereby  committees  of  organizations  will  co-operate  with 
local  produce  dealers  and  public  market  officials,  in  securing  and  disseminating  such 
information  periodically. 

U.  S.  FOOD  ADMINISTRATION. 


S-6 


I  ASK  that  every  woman  fill  in  this  blank,  detach  it,  and  send  it  to 
the  Federal  Food  Administrator  of  her  Home  State. 


APPLICATION  FOR  MEMBERSHIP 
U.  S.  FOOD  ADMINISTRATION 

Date 1917. 

FEDERAL  FOOD  ADMINISTRATOR, 

State  of )f 

Address 

I  am  glad  to  join  you  in  the  service  of  food  conservation  for  our 
Nation,  and  I  hereby  accept  membership  in  the  United  States  Food 
Administration,  pledging  myself  to  carry  out  the  directions  and  ad- 
vice of  the  Food  Administration  in  the  conduct  of  my  household,  in 
so  far  as  my  circumstances  permit. 

Name    

Address 

City  or  Town 

Number  of  persons  in  family 

No  Fees  or  Dues  are  to  be  paid 

JL>  See  NEXT  PAGE  for  Name  and  Address  of  Federal  Food  Administrator  for  Your 
State,  and  send  this  form  to  him. 


Typical  manner  of  addressing   letters: 

Richard  M.  Hobbie,  Esq., 
Federal  Food  Administrator, 

Bell  Building, 

Montgomery,    Ala. 


Typical   manner  of  addressing   telegrams: 

Hobbie Food  Administrator,   Montgomery,   Ala 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK, 
New  York 


S-7 


FEDERAL  FOOD  ADMINISTRATORS 
FOR  EACH  STATE 

Do  not  write  to  Washington,  on  Food   Administration    matters.      Address 
the  Federal  Food  Administrator  for  your  State,  as  below: 

State  Name  Address 

ALABAMA     Richard  M.  Hobbie  ....  Bell    Building    Montgomery,    Ala. 

ALASKA     Royal  A.  Gunnison Juneau,   Alaska 

ARIZONA     Timothy  A.  Riodan Flagstaff,    Ariz. 

ARKANSAS     Hon.    Hamp    Williams .  .  Old    State    Capitol    Building Little  Rock,   Ark. 

CALIFORNIA     Ralph  P.   Merritt 617   First  National  Bank  Building San    Francisco,    Cal. 

COLORADO     Thos.   B.   Stearns State    House     Denver,    Colo. 

CONNECTICUT    .  .  .  Robert    Scoville    36  Pearl  Street Hartford,    Conn. 

DELAWARE    Edmund    Mitchell    704  Equitable  Building Wilmington,    Del. 

DIST.   COLUMBIA.  .  Clarence  R.  Wilson 901     1  6th  Street    Washington,   D.  C. 

FLORIDA    Braxton    Beacham     Orlando,   Fla. 

GEORGIA Dr.   Andrew  M.  Soule .  .State    Agriculture    College    Athens,    Ga. 

HAWAII J.    F.    Child Honolulu,    Hawaii 

IDAHO    R.  F.  Bicknell Boise,  Idaho 

ILLINOIS     Harry    A.    Wheeler.  .  .  .Conway  Building,    1  1    W.  Washington  St.  .  Chicago,    111. 

INDIANA     Dr.  Harry  E.  Barnard.  .Indiana  State  Board  of  Health Indianapolis,    Ind. 

IOWA     J.    F.    Deems    Burlington,     Iowa 

KENTUCKY     Fred  M.  Sackett 315   Guthrie  Street    Louisville,    Ky. 

KANSAS     Walter  P.   Innes Wichita,    Kans. 

LOUISIANA Jno.    M.    Parker    Tulane Newcomb  Building New  Orleans,   La. 

MAINE     Dr.    Leon    S.    Merrill.  .  .University   of   Maine    Orono,    Maine 

MARYLAND     Edwin  G.  Baetjer Equitable    Building Baltimore,    Md. 

MASSACHUSETTS.  Henry  B.  Endicott Mass.  Com.  on  Public  Safety,  State  House.  Boston,    Mass. 

MICHIGAN     George  A.   Prescott.  .  .  .State  House Lansing,    Mich. 

MINNESOTA     A.    D.    Wilson University  Farm    St.   Paul,   Minn. 

MISSISSIPPI     P.  M.  Harding Vicksburg,  Miss. 

MISSOURI    Frederick    B.    Mumford Columbia,  Mo. 

MONTANA     Prof.    Alfred   Atkinson.  .Agriculture  Experiment  Station Bozeman,    Mont. 

NEBRASKA     Gurdon   W.   Wattles Omaha,   Nebr. 

NEVADA     H.   A.    Lemmon Reno,    Nevada 

NEW  HAMPSHIRE. .  Huntley  N.   Spaulding .  .State  House    Concord,  N.  H. 

NEW    JERSEY    William  S.  Tyler 601    Broad   Street    Newark,  N.  J. 

NEW    MEXICO Ralph    C.    Ely Albuquerque,  N.  M. 

{John  Mitchell,  Chairm  \ 
Jacob   G.   Schurmann.  [  n0   w     „  fc   Street    N         y     fc  c; 
Charles   A.    Wieting..   I 
A    *k        Wll-                        ) 
Arthur   Williams    .  .  .  .  / 

NEW  YORK   STATE  (Charles  E.  Treman) Ithaca,  N.  Y. 

NORTH   CAROLINA  Henry  A.   Page    Raleigh,  N.  C. 

NORTH    DAKOTA. .  Dr.  Edwin  F.  Ladd Agricultural  College Fargo,  N.   D. 

OHIO     Fred   C.   Croxton State    House     I Columbus,    Ohio 

OKLAHOMA    Charles  B.   Ames Capitol   Building    Oklahoma   City.Okla. 

OREGON      W.  B.  Ayer 401    Northwestern  Bank  Building Portland,    Ore. 

PENNSYLVANIA    .  .  Howard  Heinz Fifth  Floor,  Bulletin  Building Philadelphia,    Pa. 

PORTO  RICO    Albert   E.    Lee    San  Juan,  Porto  Rico 

RHODE    ISLAND .  .  .  Alfred  M.  Coats State    House     Providence,  R.  I. 

SOUTH    CAROLINA  William   Elliott    Arcade   Building    Columbia,  S.  C. 

SOUTH  DAKOTA .  .  Hon.   Chas.  N.  Herreid Aberdeen,  S.   D. 

TENNESSEE Prof.   H.   A.   Morgan .  .  .State    Capitol    Nashville,    Tenn. 

TEXAS    E.    A.    Peden     Room    1  1  09,   Scanlon  Building Houston,   Texas 

UTAH     W.    W.    Armstrong Box  No.    1  788    Salt  Lake  City,   Utah 

VERMONT    Frank  H.  Brooks State   Capitol    Montpelier,    Vermont 

VIRGINIA Hugh   B.    Sproul Chamber  of  Commerce  Building Richmond,   Va. 

WASHINGTON    ....  Charles    Hebberd     Spokane,    Wash. 

WEST    VIRGINIA..  .  Earl  W.    Oglebay Wheeling,  W.  Va. 

WISCONSIN    Magnus    Swenson    State    Capitol    Madison,  Wis. 

WYOMING    Theodore    C.    Diers. Sheridan,  Wyo. 

S-9 


HOME  CARD 

UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

STATES  RELATIONS  SERVICE 
A  GUIDE  IN  BAKING 

SAVE   WHEAT  — USE  WHEAT   SUBSTITUTES 

MEASUREMENTS  OF  SUBSTITUTES  EQUAL  TO 
ONE  CUP  OF  FLOUR 


These  weights  and  measures  were  tested  in  the  Experimental  Kitchen  of  the  U.  S. 
Food  Administration,  Home  Conservation  Division,  and  of  the  U.  S.  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Office  of  Home  Economics. 

In  substituting  for  one  cup  of  flour  use  the  following  measurements.  Each  is  equal 
in  weight  to  a  cup  of  flour. 


Barley 1  %  cups 

Buckwheat Y&  cup 

Corn  flour 1    cup    (scant) 

Corn  meal    (coarse) Y&   cup 

Corn  meal   (fine)  ....  1   cup   (scant) 

Cornstarch    24    CUP 

Peanut  flour 1   cup   (scant) 


Potato  flour %  cup 

Rice  flour Yi  cup 

Rolled  oats 1  Yl  cups 

Rolled  oats   (ground  in 

meat  choper) 1  J/g   cups 

Soy-bean  flour Y&  cup 

Sweet  potato  flour 1  J/g  cups 


This  table  will  help  you  to  make  good  griddle  cakes,  muffins,  cakes,  cookies,  drop 
biscuits,  and  nut  or  raisin  bread  without  using  any  wheat  flour. 

You  will  not  need  new  recipes.  Just  use  the  ones  your  family  has  always  liked,  but 
for  each  cup  of  flour  use  the  amount  of  substitute  given  in  the  table.  You  can  change 
your  muffin  recipe  like  this: 


Old  Recipe 

2  cups  wheat  flour 

4   teaspoons  baking  powder 

Ya    teaspoon  salt 

1    tablespoon  sugar 

1    cup  milk  ■« 

1    egg 

1    tablespoon  fat 


New  Recipe 

1  Y&  cups  barley  flour 

1    cup   (scant)  corn  flour 

4    teaspoons   baking   powder 

Ya    teaspoon  salt 

1    tablespoon  sugar 

1    cup  milk 

1    egg 

1    tablespoon  fat 


The  only  difference  is  the  substitution  for  the  wheat  flour.      Everything  else   remains 
the  same.      You  can  change  all  of  your  recipes  in  a  similar  way. 

GOOD  COMBINATIONS  OF  SUBSTITUTES 


You  will  get  better  results  if  you  mix  two  substitutes  than  if  you  use  just  one  alone. 
Some  good  combinations  are 

Rolled  oats   (ground) 

or 
Barley  flour 

or 
Buckwheat  flour  and 

or 
Peanut  flour 

or 
Soy-bean  flour 

CAUTIONS 

1.  All  measurements   should   be  accurate.      A   standard   measuring   cup   is   equal   to   a   half 
pint. 

2.  The  batter  often  looks  too  thick,  and  sometimes  too  thin,   but  you  will  find  that  if  you 
have  measured  as  given  in  the  table  the  result  will  be  good  after  baking. 

3.  Bake  all  substitute  mixtures  more  slowly  and  longer. 

4.  Drop  biscuits  are  better  than  the  rolled  biscuits,  when  substitutes  are  used. 

5.  Pie  crusts  often  do  not  roll  well  and  have  to   be   patted   on  to   the  pan.      They  do   not 
need  chilling  before  baking. 

S-10 


Corn  flour 

or 
Rice  flour 

or 
Potato  flour 

or 
Sweet  potato  flour 

or 
Corn  meal 


FIFTY-FIFTY 


SPEAKERS'  BULLETIN  No.   6 
UNITED  STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 


Washington,  February,  1918. 

By  order  of  the  U.  S.  Food  Administration: 

With  every  pound  of  flour  sold  at  retail,  there  must  be  sold 
an  equal  weight  of  corn,  oats,  rice,  barley,  or  other  cereal, 
one  or  any  assortment. 

This    rule   applies    to   every   one   alike.       Exception    has    been    made    only 

where  other   cereals  were   not   to  be    had only    till    the    shortage    could 

be    overcome and    only    by    order    of    the    Federal    Food    Administrator 

The  situation  has  become  critical.  There  is  simply  not  enough  food  in 
Europe.  Yet  the  soldiers  of  the  Allies  must  be  maintained  in  full  strength;  their 
wives  and  children  at  home  must  not  face  famine;  the  friendly  neutrals  must  not 
be  starved;  and,  finally,  our  own  army  in  France  must  never  lack  a  needed  ounce 
of   food. — Herbert   Hoover,    1918   Home-Card. 

Unless  you  are  able  to  send  the  Allies  at  least  75,000,000  bushels  of  wheat 
over  and  above  what  you  have  exported  up  to  January  1  st,  and  in  addition  to  the 
total  exportable  surplus  from  Canada,  I  cannot  take  the  responsibility  of  assuring 
our  people  that  there  will  be  food  enough  to  win  the  war. — Lord  Rhondda,  British 
Food  Controller,  cable,  January,    1918. 


Whether  it  suits  us  or  not, 

whether  we  like  it  or  not, 
whether   it   costs   more  or  less, 
we  shall  eat  of  our  other  cereals 
measure  for  measure  with  wheat. 


To  create  a  supply  of  wheat 

the  Nation  draws  on  its  other  grains. 

The  fifty-fifty   rule, 

binding    on    everyone   everywhere, 
makes  all  share  and  share  alike. 


THEIR  NEED  IS  DESPERATE 

The  Allies  need  from  75,000,000  to  90,000,000 
bushels  more  of  American  wheat.  We  have  al- 
ready exported  the  theoretical  surplus  of  last  har- 
vest. We  have  saved  from  25,000,000  to  50,000,- 
000  bushels  during  the  last  five  months,  which  we 
are   now   exporting. 

We  cannot  and  will  not  export  more  than  our 
savings.  The  Allies  have  sharply  reduced  their 
bread  ration  to  their  own  people,  and  if  this  low- 
ered ration  is  to  be  maintained  we  must  save  more 
than  hitherto. 

Every  grain  of  wheat  and  every  ounce  of  flour 
and  bread  saved  now  is  exactly  that  amount  sup- 
plied to  some  man,  woman,  or  child  among  the 
Allies. 

UNITED  STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 
January  11,   1918 


OUR  DUTY  IS   IMPERATIVE 

The  Allies  find  their  supply  of  breadstuffs  run- 
ning low. 

It  is  imperative  that  we  send  them  an  increased 
amount  of  flour  to  strengthen  the  fighting  lines 
and  keep  alive  the  men  and  women  of  France  and 
England,  Italy  and  Belgium,  who  for  more  than 
three  years  have  had  to  bear  the  terrible  priva- 
tions of  war. 

More  flour  is  also  needed  by  our  soldiers  abroad. 

To  send  them  and  the  Allies  the  flour  required 
bakers  and  housewives  must  loyally  join  in  using 
larger  quantities  of  wheat-flour  substitutes. 

UNITED  STATES   FOOD  ADMINISTRATION 
January  31,   1918 


S-ll 


S-12 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


PRESIDENT  WILSON'S  APPEAL 

Many  causes  have  contributed  to  create  the  ne- 
cessity for  a  more  intensive  effort  on  the  part  of 
our  people  to  save  food  in  order  that  we  may 
supply  our  associates  in  the  war  with  the  sus- 
tenance vitally  necessary  to  them  in  these  days  of 
privation  and  stress. 

The  reduced  productivity  of  Europe  because  of 
the  large  diversion  of  man  power  to  the  war,  the 
partial  failure  of  harvests,  and  the  elimination  of 
more  distant  markets  for  foodstuffs  through  the 
destruction  of  shipping,  places  the  burden  of  their 
subsistence  very  largely  on   our  shoulders. 

The  maintenance  of  the  health  and  strength  of 
our  own  people  is  vitally  necessary  at  this  time, 
and  there  should  be  no  dangerous  restriction  of 
the  food  supply;  but  the  elimination  of  every  sort 
of  waste  and  the  substitution  of  other  commodi- 
ties of  which  we  have  more  abundant  supplies  for 
those  which  we  need  to  save  will  in  no  way  impair 
the  strength  of  our  people  and  will  enable  us  to 
meet  one  of  the  most  pressing  burdens  of  the  war. 

— By  the  President,  January  18,  1918 

IN  THE  GRIP  OF  NECESSITY 

Americans  have  done  a  wonderful  thing  by 
voluntary  saving.  The  like  was  never  done  be- 
fore by  any  people.  But  we  have  not  done  enough. 
Necessity  tightens  its  grip.  The  crisis  grows  more 
tense.  We  must  do  more — and  more — and  more 
— or  we  are  undone. 

At  the  first  it  was  reckoned  that  saving  one 
slice  of  bread  in  five  would  make  plenty.  Millions 
began  saving.  But  not  enough.  Some  could  not, 
some  would  not,  some  cared  not.  Europe's  needs 
rose;  the  submarine  toll  increased;  trade  circuits 
shortened ;  losses  were  to  be  made  up ;  new  drafts 
were  to  be  met. 

By  November  it  was  known  that  we  must  set  our 
tables  with  more  of  corn  and  oats  and  other  grains. 
But  they  had  not  come  to  market.  Until  they 
reached  the  stores,  we  had  to  eat  further  into  our 
stock  of  wheat,  expecting  to  lean  more  heavily  on 
other  cereals  when  they  were  delivered. 

DRAWING   ON  RESERVES 

By  December  we  had  shipped  all  the  normal 
surplus  of  wheat.  The  fall's  saving  would  carry 
us  part  way;  for  the  rest  we  had  to  create  a  new 
surplus  by  drawing  on  the  reserves  of  other  grain. 

A  new  assessment  of  our  obligation  was  made. 
It  was  announced:  Our  object  is  that  we  should 
reduce  by  one-third  our  consumption  of  wheat. 
To  fulfill  that  purpose  a  schedule  of  wheatless  days 
and  meals  was  promulgated. 

Still  the  markets  offered  no  substitutes.  Rail- 
roads were  strangled  by  terminal  blockades  and 
smothered  in  cold  and  snow.  Masses  of  foodstuffs, 
inert  in  granaries  and  corncribs,  might  as  well 
have  been   in  Tibet  for  all  the  help   they   gave   the 


day's   needs the   warehouse   was    choke-full;    there 

was  no  flow  to  market.  Not  till  near  the  end  of 
February  Was  a  current  stock  of  one  or  another 
substitute  assured  for  every  region. 

ALL  CEREALS  A  SINGLE  RESOURCE 

It  was  high  time.  The  Food  Administration 
dared  put  off  no  longer  the  protection  of  our 
wheat  reserves.  In  our  half  of  the  world,  all  grain 
is  virtually  a  common  stock.  The  Allies  have 
their  barley  and  rice,  and  without  much  difficulty 
we  are  making  up  their  shortage  of  coarse  grains. 
We  have  plenty  of  cereals  all  told;  we  must  make 
up  the  wheat  deficit  of  our  associates  by  drawing 
on  our  reserves  of  coarse  grains. 

At  last  we  have  in  every  market  in  the  United 
States  enough  of  one  or  more  substitutes  to  go 
with  the  wheat. 

To  meet  the  situation,  then,  the  Victory  bread 
regulation  has  been  adopted  and  the  fifty-fifty  rule. 

Whoever  bakes  bread,  pastry,  or  other  wheat 
products  must  mingle  with  the  wheat  flour  at  least 
one-fifth  of  other  cereal  or  potatoes.  This  is  Vic- 
tory bread. 

Whoever  sells  wheat  flour  or  other  wheat  prod- 
ucts must  sell  with  it  an  equal  weight  of  other 
cereals.      This  is  the  fifty-fifty  rule. 

FIFTY-FIFTY  IN  THE  HOME 

This  is  no  radical  change  in  diet;  only  a  modi- 
fication. Cereals  are  part  of  our  ordinary  fare. 
Many  families  begin  the  day  with  oatmeal  or  corn 
flakes.  In  the  South  corn  bread  is  as  common  as 
wheat.  In  the  Southwest  feterita  flour,  elsewhere 
unknown,  has  become  a  staple.  On  the  Pacific 
coast  they  have  rice.  Fifty-fifty  is  to  be  compared 
with  customary  buying  of,   say,   thirty  to  sixty. 

One  calculation  shows  an  average  consumption 
in  American  homes  of  two-thirds  wheat  and  one- 
third  other  cereals.  Another  reckoning  accounts 
for  sales  running  8,000,000  barrels  of  flour  to 
6,000,000  barrels  of  other  sorts. 

Briefly,  the  housewife  who  has  been  doing  with 
two-thirds  wheat  and  one-third  other  cereals  must 
absorb .  equal  quantities,  which  means  changing 
from  white  bread  to  Victory  breads  and  serving 
more  frequently  the  quick  breads,  muffins,  break- 
fast  foods,   porridges,   and   the   like. 

SHIFTING  THE  PROPORTIONS 

Each  housewife  must  work  out  her  problem  by 
her  own  ingenuity  and  skill,  as  hardly  two  families 
have  the  same  habits  and  tastes.  Those  learned 
in  domestic  economy  can  tell  what  other  adjust- 
ments must  be  made  as  the  bread  quotas  are  shift- 
ed.     But,   roughly,   this  is  the  problem: 

Given  a  family  using  66  pounds  of  wheat  and 
33  of  other  cereals:  To  change  to  fifty-fifty.  Change 
white  bread  to  Victory  bread,  mixing  at  least  one- 
fifth  meal  with  the  flour.  That  reduces  the  white 
flour  from  66  to  53  pounds  and  uses  up    13  pounds 


SUPPLEMENT— FIFTY-FIFTY 


S-13 


of  the  assorted  cereals.  To  cut  down  white  flour 
another  3  or  4  pounds  to  an  even  50,  to  raise  the 
other  cereals  another  3  or  4  pounds  also  to  an 
even  50,  the  family  must  eat  muffins  or  Indian 
puddings  often  enough  to  absorb  the   difference. 

Or  eat  cereals  as  usual  and  cut  the  purchase  of 
flour  in  half,  make  up  the  difference  by  eating 
potatoes.  Folks  who  rely  on  potatoes  instead  of 
■white  bread  are  a  long  way  from  starvation. 

Those  are  two  out  of  two  million  possible  com- 
binations. 

THIS  WE  MUST  DO 

This  is  no  if-you-please  affair.  We  have  to. 
Unless  we  do  this  we  are  done  for.  We  shall 
whether  we  like  it  or  not.  Every  good  American 
will  shape  his  habits  to  the  fifty-fifty  rule  because 
he  is  a  good  American.  Any  other  sort  will  take 
the  fifty-fifty  rations  because  that  is  all  he  will  get. 

There  will  be  no  famine.  The  Government, 
which  has  absolute   control  of  exports,   will  not   let 


the  land  go  hungry.  We  could  not  send  that  much 
food  abroad  if  we  tried — there  are  not  ships 
enough. 

We  may  have  to  get  along  with  less  wheat  in 
our  bread — and  we  can.  We  may  have  to  get 
along  with  less  bread  in  our  diet — and  we  can. 
To-day  the  rule  is  fifty-fifty;  next  month  it  may 
be  sixty  and  forty.  If  we  drew  down  the  propor- 
tion of  wheat  to  one  in  ten  we  would  still  be  well 
nourished.  Though  there  is  no  sign  of  that  ex- 
tremity, we  shall  certainly  depend  more  and  more 
on  our  reserves  of  other  food  to  maintain  the  flow 
of  necessary  foodstuffs  to  Europe.  Unless  we  do 
that  we   are  done   for. 


All  that  we   have  belongs   to   the   Nation — 
A  Nation  that  sets  its  face  against  privilege, 
A  Nation  that  despises  profit  from  war, 
A  Nation  that  believes  in  equality  of  burden, 
A  Nation  committed   to  universal  service, 
A  Nation  living  by  the  rule  of  equal  sacrifice. 

The   fifty-fifty   rule   treats   everyone  alike. 


THE  WHEAT  SITUATION 

UNITED  STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 

Every  aspect  of  the  wheat  situation,  both  present  and  prospective,  intensi- 
fies the  need  for  the  greatest  possible  limitation  in  the  American  consumption  of 
wheat  and  wheat  products.  If  present  restrictions  should  be  in  the  slightest  degree 
relaxed  it  would  result  in  serious  want  for  the  people  of  Europe  before  the  new 
crop  can  reach  the  market. 

The  Food  Administration's  estimate  of  the  position  on  the  first  of  June  in- 
dicates a  total  available  supply  until  the  new  harvest,  including  the  grain  which 
will  be  available  from  the  farms,  in  country  and  terminal  elevators,  and  mm  ele_ 
vators,  of  about  56,000,000  bushels.  Of  this  30,000,000  bushels  must  be  ex- 
ported before  new  wheat  is  available  for  export  if  we  are  to  maintain  the  absolutely 
necessary  shipments  to  our  Army  and  the  Allies.  That  leaves  about  26,000,000 
bushels  for  domestic  consumption  for  the  next  two  months. 

Normal  American  consumption  is  something  over  40,000,000  bushels  a 
month,  so  that  the  most  liberal  consumption  at  home  would  be  only  one-third  of 
normal. 

In  addition  to  the  wheat  on  the  farms  and  in  elevators  there  is  always  an 
indeterminate  further  amount  in  transit  and  in  dealers'  hands,  and  this  can  never 
be  reckoned  in  with  the  flour  available  for  use  for  export  and  at  home.  As  a  mat- 
ter of  fact,  this  stock  is  not  actually  available,  since  these  supplies  must  remain 
constantly  in  flow;  they  remain  a  permanent  stock,  the  removal  of  which  would 
later  cause  a  period  of  acute  shortage  in  distribution  before  new  wheat  would  be 
available.  There  is  further  an  inclination  to  include  new  crop  prospects  with  pres- 
ent conditions,  which  has  led  to  confusion.  The  harvest  will  not  be  generally  avail- 
able in  flour  until  the  middle  of  August  or  early  September,  although  in  the  extreme 
South  it  will  be  somewhat  earlier.  At  a  meeting  of  the  Federal  Food  Adminis- 
tration in  Washington  yesterday,  representing  all  48  States,  it  was  the  unanimous 


S-14 THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 

view  that  even  if  the  harvest  does  prove  abundant  it  will  be  the  first  duty  of  the 
American  people  to  place  every  grain  they  can  save  into  storage  against  possible 
bad  years  ahead.  In  consequence  there  should  be  no  anticipation  of  unlimited 
wheat  bread  until  the  war  is  over. 

Some  of  the  most  inconvenient  restrictions  can  no  doubt  be  modified  with 
the  arrival  of  a  large  harvest,  but  if  we  are  honest  with  ourselves  we  will  maintain 
restrictions  requiring  the  use  of  some  substitutes,  both  domestic  and  commercial; 
we  will  continue  the  requirement  of  high  milling  extraction  and  the  elimination  of 
the  non-essential  use  of  and  waste  of  flour  and  bread. 

It  is  worth  remembering  that  the  famine  in  Egypt  eight  thousand  years 
ago  was  saved  by  a  little  governmental  foresight,  and  it  does  not  require  any 
illuminating  dream  to  anticipate  that  so  long  as  the  war  lasts,  with  its  increasing 
drafts  for  soldiers  and  munition  workers,  the  world  will  steadily  produce  less  food. 
If  we  are  wise,  a  great  harvest  will  mean  the  willing  building  up  of  great  national 
reserves. 


CHOOSE  YOUR  FOOD  WISELY 

(United  States  Food  Leaflet  No.   4) 

STUDY  THESE  FIVE  FOOD  GROUPS 

Every  food  you  eat  may  be  put  into  one  of  these  groups.  Each  group 
serves  a  special  purpose  in  nourishing  your  body.  You  should  choose  some  food 
from  each  group  daily. 

1  .  VEGETABLES  AND  FRUITS. 

2.  MILK,  EGGS,  FISH,  MEAT,    CHEESE,    BEANS,    PEAS,    PEA- 

NUTS. 

3.  CEREALS— CORN  MEAL,  OATMEAL,  RICE,  BREAD,  ETC. 

4.  SUGAR,  SYRUPS,  JELLY,  HONEY,  ETC. 

5.  FATS— BUTTER,    MARGARINE,  COTTONSEED  OIL,  OLIVE 

OIL,  DRIPPINGS,  SUET. 

You  can  exchange  one  food  for  another  in  the  same  group.  For  example, 
oatmeal  may  be  used  instead  of  wheat,  and  eggs,  or  sometimes  beans,  instead  of 
meat;  but  oatmeal  cannot  be  used  instead  of  milk.     Use  both  oatmeal  and  milk. 

The  sugar  group,  while  very  useful  to  the  body,  is  not  so  necessary  as  the 
others  to  keep  us  in  health.     It  helps  make  our  food  taste  good,  however. 

It  is  interesting  to  count  up  how  much  of  each  group  you  use  daily.  Here 
are  the  amounts  that  a  man  doing  moderate  work  could  well  use.  A  woman,  be- 
ing smaller,  would  use  about  four-fifths  the  amount,  and  children  still  less,  but  be 
sure  that  each  child  has  at  least  a  pint,  or  better,  a  quart  of  milk  each  day. 

A  HEALTHFUL  AND  PALATABLE  DIET  CONTAINS  FOODS  FROM  EACH  OF  FIVE  GROUPS 


SUPPLEMENT— CHOOSE  YOUR  FOOD  WISELY 


S-15 


Food   Groups. 


No.     I  .    Fruits   and   vegetables. 


No.  2 .  Medium-fat  meats,  eggs, 
cheese,  dried  legumes,  and 
similar  foods;   milk. 

No.  3  .Wheat,  corn,  oats,  rye, 
rice,   and  other  cereals. 


No.  4 .  Sugar,  honey,  syrup,  and 
other  foods  consisting  chiefly 
of  sugar. 

No.  5  .  Butter,  oil,  and  other 
foods   consisting   chiefly  of  fat. 


urposes. 


To  give  bulk  and  to  insure  min- 
eral and  body-regulating  ma- 
terials. 

To    insure    enough   protein. 


To  supply  starch,  a  cheap  fuel, 
and  to  supplement  the  protein 
from  Group   2. 

To  supply  sugar,  a  quickly  ab- 
sorbed   fuel,    useful    for    flavor. 


To  insure  fat,  a  fuel  which  gives 
richness. 


Amount  Needed   Daily  by  a  Man 
at  Moderate   Muscular  Work. 


1  J/2    to    3    pounds. 


8     to     16     ounces     (4     ounces    of 
milk   counting  as    1    ounce). 

8    to     16    ounces     (increasing    as 
foods  from  Group  2  decrease). 

I  J/2    to   3    ounces. 


1  J/2    to   3    ounces. 


Count  up  what  you  are  eating.  Learn  whether  you  are  using  economical 
and  patriotic  amounts.  Make  your  housekeeping  more  accurate  and  more  inter- 
esting. 

REMEMBER  THE  FIVE  GROUPS 

Fruits  and  Vegetables  furnish  some  of  the  material  from  which  the  body  is 
made  and  keep  its  many  parts  working  smoothly.  They  help  prevent  constipa- 
tion which  gives  you  headaches  and  makes  you  stupid.  The  kinds  you  choose 
depend  upon  the  season,  but  remember  that  the  cheaper  ones  are  often  as  valu- 
able as  the  more  expensive. 

Milk,  Eggs,  Fish,  Meat,  Peas,  Beans — These  help  build  up  the  growing 
body  and  renew  used-up  parts.  That  is  their  main  business.  Dried  peas  and  beans 
make  good  dishes  to  use  in  place  of  meat  part  of  the  time,  but  don't  leave  out  the 
other  foods  entirely.  Milk  is  the  most  important.  Buy  at  least  a  pint  a  day  for 
every  member  of  your  family.  No  other  food  can  take  its  place  for  children.  Save 
on  meat  if  you  must,  but  don't  skimp  on  milk. 

Cereals — Bread  and  breakfast  foods.  These  foods  act  as  fuel  to  let  you  do 
your  work,  much  as  the  gasoline  burning  in  an  automobile  engine  makes  the  car 
go.  This  you  can  think  of  as  their  chief  business.  And  they  are  usually  your 
cheapest  fuel.     Besides,  they  give  your  body  some  building  material. 

Don't  think  that  wheat  bread  is  the  only  kind  of  cereal  food.  The  Gov- 
ernment asks  us  to  save  wheat  to  send  abroad  to  our  soldiers  and  the  Allies.  Let 
the  North  try  the  Southern  corn  bread  and  the  South  the  oatmeal  of  the  North. 
Half  the  fun  in  cooking  is  in  trying  new  things.  An  oatmeal  pudding  is  delicious. 
See  Leaflet  No.  6  for  the  recipe. 

Sugar  and  Syrups  are  fuel,  too,  and  they  give  flavor  to  other  foods.  They 
are  valuable  food,  but  many  people  eat  more  of  them  than  they  need.  Sweet  fruits, 
of  course,  contain  much  sugar  and  are  better  for  the  children  than  candy. 

Fat  is  fuel — Some  is  needed  especially  by  hard-working  people.  Remem- 
ber that  expensive  fats  are  no  better  fuel  than  cheap  ones.  Use  drippings.  Don't 
let  your  butcher  keep  the  trimmings  from  your  meat.  They  belong  to  you.  Chil- 
dren need  some  butter  fat.     Give  it  to  them  in  plenty  of  whole  milk  or  in  butter. 


HOUSEHOLD  CONSERVATION— FOOD 

(Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture) 

GUARD  THE  FOOD  SUPPLY 

Food  is  now  the  world's  greatest  need.  The  fields  of  Europe  are  devas- 
tated, crops  are  short  in  the  southern  hemisphere  and  some  of  our  own  farmers 
must  enlist  for  military  service.  Our  food  reserves  are  limited  and  we  must  not 
only  feed  our  soldiers  at  the  front  but  also  the  army  that  remains  at  home  to  fight 
for  the  world's  sustenance. 

We  must  keep  only  what  we  need  and  send  all  we  can  spare  to  help  feed  our 
hungry  neighbors. 

A  slice  of  bread  saved  every  day  seems  a  mere  trifle,  but  it  means  two  dozen 
loaves  of  bread  in  a  year.     Will  you  save  the  trifle? 


SAVE  FOOD  IN  THE  FOLLOWING  WAYS 

By  careful  buying. 
By  careful  storing  and   handling. 
By   proper   cooking   and    serving. 
By   sane    eating. 
By   eliminating  waste. 

By  substituting  cheaper  foods  for  more  expen- 
sive. 

FOOD   MONEY    IS    WASTED 

By   ordering  by   telephone. 

By  ordering  indefinitely,  by  price  rather  than  by 
weight. 

By  buying  perishable  foods  in  too  large  quan- 
tities. 

By  buying  "out  of  season"  foods  (strawberries 
in   December). 

By  buying  ready  to  eat  foods  (breakfast  foods, 
canned   soups). 

By  buying  foods  high  in  price,  and  low  in  food 
value  (asparagus  tips,  oysters,  pimentos  and  mush- 
rooms) . 

By    "living  out  of  paper  bags." 

By  buying  staple  foods  in  small  packages  (corn- 
meal,   rice). 

By  buying  for  wants  rather  than  for  needs. 

BREADSTUFFS   ARE   WASTED 

By  careless  storing  of  cereals  (flour,  meal,  ad- 
mitting insects). 

By  leaving  flour  and  dough  adhering  to  bread 
bowl  and  board. 

By  bread  failures  due  to  wrong  handling  and 
baking. 

By  discarding  left  overs,  biscuits,  muffins,  ends 
of  loaves.  (Bread  crumbs  may  be  used  in  numer- 
ous ways.) 

By  underbaking,  resulting  in  souring  when  few 
days   old. 

By  improper  storing  of  bread,  resulting  in  sour- 
ing and'  molding. 


MEATS  ARE  WASTED 

By   careless   storing. 

By   leaving  trimmings  at  market — fat  and  bones. 

By   discarding   excess   fat all   fat  is   usable. 

By  discarding  bones — useful  in  soups.  (Remove 
surplus  fat  and   bone  before   cooking.) 

By   wrong   cooking. 

By   discarding  left  overs. 

By   discarding  juices  and  broths. 

By   providing  too  much  in  the  diet. 

By  overeating  on  part  of  individuals.  (One 
meatless  day  each  week  will  help  to  conserve  the 
supply  of  meat  and  to  improve  health.) 

VEGETABLES   ARE  WASTED 

By  careless  storing. 

By  taking  thick  parings,  sometimes  20  per  cent, 
of  edible  portion.      Save  food  by  cooking  in  jackets. 

By    discarding    small-sized    vegetables. 

By  discarding  water  in  which  vegetables  are 
cooked.      Steaming  saves   food   material. 

By  discarding  leaves  and  stem  (beet  tops,  turnip 
tops,    outer   stalks   and   leaves   of   celery). 

By   overcooking. 

By    undercooking 

By    cooking    larger    quantity    than   is    needed. 

By   discarding   left   overs. 

MILK   IS    WASTED 

By  careless  handling. 

By  discarding  buttermilk  (use  for  cookery  and 
beverages). 

By  discarding  separated  milk  (use  for  cheese 
and    cookery). 

By  discarding  skim  milk  (use  for  cheese  and 
cookery). 

By  discarding  sour  milk  (use  for  cheese  and 
cookery). 

By  discarding  whey    (use   in   bread   making). 


S-16 


SUPPLEMENT— HOUSEHOLD  CONSERVATION— FOOD 


S-17 


FUEL    IS    WASTED 

By  cooking  a  few  dishes  at  a  time.  (Heat  cook 
stove  less  often  and  cook  more  dishes  at  a  time. 
Have  oven   full   of  baking.) 

By  turning  gas  or  kerosene  flame  higher  than 
necessary.  (No  time  is  saved  by  boiling  the  kettle 
over.) 

By  leaving   gas   turned   on   to   save   re-lighting. 

By  the  use  of  poor  stoves — ovens  particularly. 
(Much  fuel  may  be  saved  by  the  use  of  the  fireless 
cooker.) 

SOME    EXPENSIVE    MISTAKES    IN    SERVING 
In  the  Home 

Too  large  quantities  placed  on  individual  plates. 

The  same  amounts  served  to  each,  regardless 
of   appetite. 

The  same  foods  served  to  each,  regardless  of 
taste. 

Elaborate   menus   for   entertaining. 

In   Boarding    House,    Restaurant    and    Hotel 

Same  foods  served  to  each  individual;  no  choice 
offered. 

Same-sized  portions  served  to  all  alike  (choice 
of  half  portions   should   be   offered). 

Too  great  a  variety  offered  at  each  meal  (means 
greater  waste). 

At   School   Functions 

Menus  much  too  elaborate.  (Simpler  menu 
serves   purpose    of   sociability   and    saves    food.) 

SOME   EXPENSIVE   MISTAKES    IN    EATING 

By   eating  more  than  is  needed. 

By   eating  foods  in  wrong  proportions. 

By  eating  too  rapidly ;  less  food  is  required  if 
eaten  slowly  and   chewed   thoroughly. 

By  serving  one's  self  more  food  that  is  wanted 
(butter,   bread,   etc.). 


By  eating  crusts  and  discarding  soft  portion,  and 
vice  versa. 

By  placing  excess  of  sugar  in  tea  and  coffee. 
(Undissolved   sugar  in   cup   is  wasted.) 

SOME    WAYS    OF    REDUCING    FOOD    EXPENSE 

Use  MILK  in  all  forms  and  in  all  possible  ways. 
Buttermilk  and  separated  milk  have  good  food 
value. 

Use  corn  products — meal,  grits  and  hominy. 
These  should  be  used  largely  to  save  wheat  prod- 
ucts. 

Use  oatmeal  and  rice.  Broken  rice  costs  less 
than   the   whole    rice. 

Use  more  of  the  cheaper  vegetables,  as  "greens,** 
carrots,  turnips,  parsnips,  and  rutabagas.  Such 
vegetables  are  necessary  when  substituting  rice 
and    corn   products   for   potatoes. 

Use  some  dried  fruits — apples,  peaches,  apricots, 
prunes,    raisins,    or   figs. 

Use  cheaper  cuts  of  meat.  Bacon  ends  are  sold 
at   reduction. 

Use  some  nuts  instead  of  meat.  Peanuts  are 
cheapest. 


The 


less 


Use  some  cheese  instead  of  meat, 
waste  in  cheese. 

Use  some  dried  fish  and  salt  fish. 

Use  less  tea  and  coffee. 

Pay  cash. 

Satisfy  body  needs  rather  than  vagaries  of  appe- 
tite. 

FOOD   PREJUDICES 

All  food  material  that  is  clean  and  wholesome 
is  fit  to  be  eaten.  Overcome  food  prejudices,  they 
are    no    more    reasonable    than    other    prejudices. 

FOOD   EXHIBITS 

No  perishable  food  exhibits  should  be  held  at 
fairs,  farmers"  institutes  and  other  such  meetings 
while  the  shortage   lasts. 


WHY  WE  MUST  SEND  WHEAT 

UNITED  STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 


Supplying  Wheat  for  the  Armies  and  the  Allies  Is  a  Military  Necessity  and  an  Act 

of  National  Defense,  the  Redemption  of  a  National  Obligation 

to  Which  Our  National  Honor  Is  Pledged 

Washington,    May,    1918 

The  Allies  ask  America  for  wheat,  rye,  corn,  barley,  and  oats,  and  we  are 
sending  them  in  large  amounts.  They  ask  us  especially,  however,  for  wheat. 
They  ask  it  as  the  necessary  basis  for  their  necessary  loaf.  They  must  have  bread, 
and  they  must  have  bread  which  will  keep  sweet  and  palatable  for  several  days. 

Wheat  is  the  basis  for  the  durable  raised  bread  loaf. 


S-18  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 

Troops  must  have  bread  carried  to  the  front  from  bakeries  behind  the  lines ; 
it  must  be  a  durable  raised  loaf. 

Workers  in  the  war  factories  must  have  bread  from  commercial  bakeries. 
The  women  in  the  factories  cannot  be  bakers  also.  Their  bread  must  be  the  dur- 
able raised  loaf. 

All  France  depends  on  the  bakeries  for  its  bread.  The  people  do  not  know 
how  to  bake  in  the  home.  They  have  no  ovens  for  baking,  nor  could  they  afford 
fuel  for  them  if  they  had. 

All  the  bread  of  France  and  England  and  Italy  to-day  is  war  bread.  It  is 
made  of  gray  wheat  flour,  milled  at  a  high  extraction  rate;  that  is,  a  larger  pro- 
portion of  the  wheat  grain  is  now  put  into  the  flour  than  formerly  was  the  case. 
Their  flour  now  contains  more  of  the  outer  parts  of  the  wheat  grain,  parts  which 
formerly  were  separated  from  the  flour  and  used  as  feed  for  animals.  This  flour  is 
then  mixed  with  as  large  a  percentage — usually  25  per  cent — of  flour  made  from 
other  cereals  as  can  be  used  and  still  permit  the  making  of  the  raised  loaf. 

In  England  this  war  bread  cannot  be  sold  until  it  is  12  hours  old,  so  that  the 
people  won't  be  tempted  to  eat  too  much  fresh  bread.  In  France  and  Italy  the 
bread  is  rationed  according  to  the  age  and  occupation  of  each  person.  A  child 
has  less  than  an  adult;  a  light  worker  less  than  one  who  does  heavy  labor. 

France  has  always  lived  on  bread.  Of  the  average  Frenchman's  normal  diet 
52  per  cent  is  composed  of  bread  and  but  48  per  cent  of  other  foods.  France  has 
just  put  her  whole  people  on  a  rigorous  bread  ration,  which  limits  them  to  only  two- 
thirds  of  the  amount  they  have  been  accustomed  to.  In  all  the  Allied  countries 
they  are  using  as  little  wheat  as  will  give  them  bread  at  all,  and  as  little  of  this 
bread  as  is  possible  to  keep  them  in  health  and  strength. 

The  people  of  Belgium  are  living  on  a  relief  ration.  Over  1 ,000,000  of 
them  get  their  daily  bread  and  soup  by  standing  in  line  long  hours  before  the  re- 
lief kitchens.  They  have  stood  in  these  long  soup  lines  every  day  for  three  and 
one-half  years.  But  they  do  not  complain.  They  only  ask  that  the  soup  and  bread 
be  there  every  day.     They  depend  upon  America. 

We  are,  as  we  have  said,  sending  corn  and  other  cereals  to  England,  France, 
Italy  and  Belgium.  These  cereals  are  shipped  as  fast  as  they  can  be  used.  But  the 
people  cannot  live  on  them  alone.  They  do  not  know  how.  They  are  unable  to  cook 
them  properly.  They  must  have  wheat  to  mix  with  them  and  with  potatoes  to 
make  their  bread.  We  are  now  sending  wheat  to  the  limit  of  our  cargo  space, 
and  yet  we  are  only  meeting  the  minimum  requirements  of  these  people.  In  order 
to  continue  doing  this,   our  people  must  share  their  present  wheat  supply. 

We  are  dividing  our  wheat  evenly  to-day  between  ourselves  and  the  Allies. 
We  must  not  use  before  the  next  harves  more  than  one-half  of  the  wheat  we  have. 
Even  with  one-half  of  our  wheat  the  loaf  of  the  Allies  is  small.  It  cannot  be 
made  smaller  without  undermining  their  strength  and  morale.  Is  there  any  doubt 
what  we  shall  do  in  this  emergency?  We  have  just  one  thing  to  do,  and  that  is  to 
save  wheat  and  send  wheat. 


SUPPLEMENT— WHY  WE  MUST  SEND  WHEAT  S-19 

IS  WHEAT  INDISPENSABLE  IN  OUR  DIET? 

The  question  naturally  arises,  however:  To  what  extent  can  the  wheat  to 
which  we  are  now  accustomed  in  our  diet  be  reduced  without  injury  to  the  health 
of  the  individuals  of  the  Nation?  This  question  was  put  by  the  Food  Administra- 
tion to  a  committee  of  experts  recently  assembled  in  Washington  to  consider  the 
special  physiological  problems  involved  in  the  general  problem  of  wheat  conserva- 
tion. 

Dr.  R.  H.  Chittenden,  Professor  of  Physiological  Chemistry  and  Dean  of  Sheffield  Scientific 
School,  Yale. 

Dr.  Graham  Lusk,  Professor  of  Physiology,  Cornell  University. 

Dr.  E.  V.  McCollum,  Professor  of  Bio-Chemistry,   Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Dr.  L.  B.  Mendel,  Professor  of  Physiological  Chemistry,  Yale  University. 

C.  L.  Alsberg,  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry,   U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

Dr.  F.  C.  Langworthy,  Chief,  Home  Economics  Office,  States  Relations  Service,  U.  S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture. 

Dr.  Alonzo  E.  Taylor,  Professor  of  Physiological  Chemistry,  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

Prof.  Vernon  Kellogg,  Stanford  University. 

Dr.  Raymond  Pearl,  School  of  Hygiene,  Johns   Hopkins   University. 

Dr.  Ray  Lyman  Wilbur,  formerly  Dean  of  the  Stanford  University  Medical  School;  now 
President  of  Stanford  University. 

The  committee,  as  may  be  seen,  was  composed  of  the  highest  physiological 
authorities  in  the  country.  Their  answer  to  the  question  was  direct  and  unequiv- 
ocal. 

It  is  the  scientific  opinion  of  the  committee  that  in  a  mixed  diet  wheat  may  be  entirely 
replaced,  without  harm,  by  other  available  cereals,  namely,  rice,  barley,  oats,  and  corn. 
However,   we  should   not  recommend   this  except  as  an  emergency  measure. 

The  committee's  particular  reason  for  not  recommending  this,  apart  from 
the  fact  that  wheat  is  perhaps  the  most  convenient  cereal  for  use  because  of  its 
special  qualities  connected  with  the  making  of  bread  in  loaves  that  will  stand  up 
and  remain  sweet  and  palatable  for  several  days,  is  that  going  without  wheat  would 
be  a  psychological  though  not  a  physiological  deprivation.  We  are  accustomed  as  a 
nation,  just  as  most  of  the  nations  of  Europe  are,  to  the  use  of  wheat  bread,  and 
a  sudden  break  in  our  custom  would  have  for  some  people  a  psychological  signifi- 
cance more  or  less  disturbing. 

However,  if  these  people  could  well  understand  the  emergency  leading  to 
the  change,  and  then  could  recognize  that  they  are  aiding  their  country  in  the 
great  emergency  by  making  the  change,  this  psychological  disturbance  would  be 
much  reduced. 

Exactly  this  condition  of  a  great  national  emergency,  to  meet  which  the 
loyal  and  patriotic  efforts  of  all  the  people  are  needed,  is  the  condition  to-day.  It 
is  only  because  of  this  great  national  emergency  that  the  Food  Administration 
makes  use  of  this  deliberate  judgment  of  the  physiological  experts  called  in  for 
advice. 

Even  under  these  circumstances,  it  is  recognized  that  because  of  economic 
and  commercial  reasons,  not  all  of  the  people  of  America  can  go  without  bread 
based  on  wheat,  but  it  is  certain  that  a  great  many  people  in  this  country  can  easily 
do  so.  It  is  the  belief  of  the  Food  Administration  that,  for  the  sake  of  maintaining 
the  wheat-bread  supply  for  the  armies  and  civilians  of  our  fighting  associates  in 
the  war,  as  well  as  our  own  soldiers  in  France,  every  patriotic  American  who  can 
possibly  do  so  will  be  glad  to  dispense  entirely  with  wheat  from  now  until  the  next 
harvest. 


WAR  ECONOMY  IN  FOOD 


SUBSTITUTIONS   IN  THE  PLANNING  OF  MEALS 
SUGGESTIONS   and   RECIPES 


HUMAN     FOODSTUFFS     COMPRISE     THREE 
PRINCIPAL   ELEMENTS 

Protein — Mainly  present  in  meat,  beans,  fish, 
poultry,    milk,   and   to   some   extent   in   grains. 

Fats — That  is,  butter,  cream,  lard,  bacon,  mar- 
garine, cooking  fats,  beans,  cottonseed  oil,  and 
other  vegetable  oils. 

Carbohydrates Grains,      sugar,      potatoes      and 

other   vegetables. 

As  a  nation  we  eat  and  waste  80  per  cent  more 
protein  than  we  require  to  maintain  health.  There- 
fore, we  can  reduce  the  amount  of  meat  we  eat 
without   harm. 

We  eat  and  waste  240  per  cent  more  fat  than 
is  necessary. 

Of  the  carbohydrates  we  can  just  as  well  con- 
sume corn,  oats  and  other  cereals  as  wheat,  and 
we  have  abundant  supplies  of  potatoes  and  vege- 
tables. 

Do  not  limit  your  supplies  of  milk  and  table 
butter,   but   consume   it  all.      Don't  waste   any. 

You  can  reduce  the  consumption  of  fats  by  re- 
ducing pastry  and   fried   foods. 

Remember  the  gospel  of  the  clean  plate,  the 
serving  of  small  portions,  the  purchase  of  less  sup- 
plies. 

Hoarding — Any  person  in  the  United  States  who 
buys  more  foodstuffs  than  he  customarily  keeps  at 
home  in  peace  times  is  defeating  the  Food  Admin- 
istration in  its  purpose  to  secure  a  just  distribu- 
tion of  food  and  in  its  great  endeavors  to  reduce 
prices.  The  hoarding  of  food  in  households  is  not 
only  unnecessary,  as  the  Government  is  protecting 
the  food  supply  of  our  people,  but  it  is  selfish  and 
is   a    cause    of   high   prices. 

Such  actions,  multiplied  by  thousands,  increase 
the  demands  upon  our  railways  for  cars  and  al- 
ready, because  of  our  military  demands,  it  is  with 
extreme  difficulty  we  can  now  move  the  vitally 
necessary  food   to   markets. 

There  is  much  insidious  propaganda  in  the  coun- 
try against  conservation  and  increased  production. 
All  opposition  to  these  services  is  direct  assistance 
to  the  enemy. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  SUBSTITUTIONS  IN  PLAN- 
NING MEALS 

The  question  of  planning  meals  grows  daily  more 
important,  because  it  is  more  evident  that  food  is 
to  win   or   lose   the  war. 

The  housewife  is  in  an  especially  trying  posi- 
tion. The  needs  of  her  family  and  the  requests 
of  the  Food  Administration  seem  at  first  glance  at 


variance.  The  word  "save"  has  been  over-empha- 
sized in  the  public  mind  and  the  word  "substitute" 
overlooked.  A  closer  study  reveals  the  fact  that 
what  the  Food  Administration  really  wishes,  and 
our  Allies  really  need  is  that  we  restrict  ourselves 
in  the  use  of  a  few  staples  and  encourage  the  wise 
use  of  many.  From  that  viewpoint  the  housewife 
has  left  a  large  and  varied  supply  of  food  from 
which  to  select  nourishment  adapted  to  the  wishes 
and  needs  of  her  family  and  to  the  condition  of 
her  pocketbook. 

LET  US  REMEMBER 

Let  us  remember  that  every  flag  that  flies  oppo- 
site the  enemy's  is  by  proxy  the  American  flag, 
and  that  the  armies  fighting  in  our  defense  under 
these  flags  cannot  be  maintained  through  this 
winter  unless  there  is  food  enough  for  them  and 
for  the  women  and  children  at  home.  There  can 
be  food  enough  only  if  America  provides  it.  And 
America  can  provide  it  only  by  the  personal  serv- 
ice  and   patriotic   co-operation    of  all   of   us. 

AT  HOME  AND  ABROAD 
The  Soldiers  Need      The  Folks  at  Home  Can  Use 


Wheat 


Sugar 


Bacon 

Beef 

Pork 


Corn 
Oats 
Barley 

Molasses 

Honey 

Syrups 

Chicken 

Eggs 

Cottage  Cheese 

Fish 

Nuts 

Peas 

Beans 


MEAL  PLANS 

Study  your  meals.  Plan  them  for  at  least  three 
days  in  advance.  This  helps  you  to  buy  to  better 
advantage,  gives  variety  in  material  and  prepara- 
tion. 

Ask  yourself  the  following  questions  about  your 
meal: 

Does  this  plan   mean- — 

1.  The  use  of  home  grown  products  and  thus 
allow  the  railroads  to  be  hauling  supplies  for  the 
army  instead   of  food   for   my   family? 


S-20 


SUPPLEMENT— WAR  ECONOMY  IN  FOOD 


S-21 


2.  The  exchange  of  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  fish, 
game,  beans,  nuts  and  peas  for  beef,  mutton,  pork? 

3.  The  use  of  barley,  buckwheat,  corn,  oats, 
and   potatoes  instead   of  wheat? 

4.  Plenty  of  whole  milk  for  the   children? 

5.  Twelve  ounces  of  fat  per  adult  per  week  and 
6  ounces  per  child  per  week?  The  substitution  of 
the  vegetable  fats  wherever  possible) 

6.  The  substitution  of  honey,  molasses,  corn 
syrup  or  other  syrup  for  sugar,  so  as  to  reduce  the 
amount  of  sugar  used  to  3  pounds  or  less  per  per- 
son per  month? 

7.  Meals  adapted  to  the  season  and  pocketbook? 
Have  they  character,   color,    flavor? 


8.    Meals   which    include   at   least   one    food    from 
each  of  the  following  classes,    except  III? 

FOOD  CLASSES 
Group    I.  Protein — Dried      beans,      eggs,      meat, 

milk,    peas,   bread. 
Group    II.  Starch — Cereals,     potatoes,     tapioca. 

Group    III.        Sugar — Desserts,    honey,    jellies,   dried 

fruits. 
Group    IV.        Fats Butter,     cream,     corn,     peanut, 

and    cottonseed    oil,    oleomargarine. 

Group    V.  Regulators,    Mineral    Salts    and    Acids 

Fruits,  vegetables,  milk. 


HELP  IN  PLANNING  MEALS 

CHOOSE  WISELY  COOK  CAREFULLY  SERVE  NICELY 

Following  are  sample  menus  illustrating  the  proper  selection  of  food   from  the  five  principal   classes: 


Protein 

Starches 

*  Sugars 
BREAKFAST 

Whole   milk 

Oatmeal     with 

dates 
Barley  toast 

DINNER 

Bean  and  nut  loaf 

Hot   cornbread 
Brown  potatoes 

Syrup 

SUPPER 

Cream       of      pea 

Baked   potatoes 

Oatmeal    cookies 

soup 

Oatmeal  bread 

BREAKFAST 

Whole  milk 

Hominy   grits 
Oatmeal    muffins 

Syrup 

DINNER 

Rice     and     tomato 

Stuffed     potatoes 

Gingerbread 

with     a .    little 

(cornmeal) 

Hamburg    steak 

SUPPER 

Cottage    cheese 

Scalloped    corn 

salad 

Oatmeal  bread 
Rice  flour  bread 
Cornmeal  wafers 

BREAKFAST 

Whole  milk 

Buckwheat  cakes 
Barley  bread 

Syrup 

DINNER 

Fish   chowder 

Cornmeal       batter 
bread 

SUPPER 

Baked  hominy  and 

Oatmeal    yeast 

Cornmeal 

cheese 

bread 

gingerbread 

Fats 

Oleomargarine 

Oleomargarine 
Oleomargarine 
Nut  butterine 
Nut  butterine 

Nut  butterine 

Butter 
Butter 
Butter 


Minerals    and 
Cellulose 

Stewed    prunes 


Stewed  tomatoes 

Celery 
Baked   apples 

Orange 
Cold  slaw- 


Oatmeal  brown 
betty 


Stewed   apricots 


Beets,    boiled 
Fruit  salad 

Boiled  oninos 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  CONSERVATION 

COURSE  DINNERS  AND   LUNCHEONS 
DINNERS 


Soups 

Oyster.      Lobster.      *Cream  of  vegetable.      Clam. 
*Use  skim  milk  and  corn  starch. 

Entrees 
Omelets.       Any     fish — with     lemon     or     tomato 
sauce.      Shell  fish.      Mushrooms. 


Meats 

Chicken.         Fish.         Duck.        Goose. 
Rabbit.      Squab.      Turkey.      Venison. 


Pheasant. 


*Salads 

Cottage      Cheese.        Fish.        Fruits     and      cheese. 
Vegetables.      Nuts. 

*Served  with  boiled  dressing  or  vegetable  oil  or 
fruit  juice  and  honey. 


*The  needs  for  this  class  can  be  met  largely  by  substitutes. 


I 


S-22 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


Desserts 

Gelatin  jellies   with  fruits  and   nuts. 

Cereals  molded  with  dates  and  raisins;  whipped 
cream  if  desired. 

Fresh   or  stewed  dried    fruits. 

Blanc  manges. 

Tapioca  creams  with  fruits. 

Ices    sweetened   with    maple    syrup    or    honey. 

Date  and  fig  puddings,  using  oatmeal  or  barley 
flour. 

Buckwheat  shortcake   with   fruit. 

War  cake    (boiled  raisin  cake). 

Spiced   oatmeal   cakes. 

Cornmeal   cookies. 

Tarts — crust  of  cornmeal   or  oatmeal. 

Oatmeal  macaroons. 

Pies 

Mock  mince — green   tomatoes. 
Pumpkin  or  cream  with  cornmeal  crust. 
Custard.  Raisin. 


Serve  no  bread   containing  wheat  with  dinner. 
Use  no  toast  as  garnish. 
Use   no   croutons. 
Use   no   bacon    for   trimming. 
Use  left-over   meats,    minced   or  in   stews. 
Use   vegetables    in   omelets. 

Use  potatoes  in  many  forms — stuffed,  puffed, 
scalloped    with    cheese. 

LUNCHEON 

Any  of  the  foods  suggested  above,  using  as  the 
main  dish  such  meat-saving  dishes  as  the  following: 

Bean    loaf.  Nut      loaf. 

Nut   and    cottage-cheese   loaf. 

Baked   hominy  and    cheese. 

Baked  rice  and  cheese  (adding  tomato,  pimento 
or  any  vegetable   desired   for   flavor). 


Eggs   with   mushrooms. 

Eggs  scrambled   with  vegetables. 

Fish  chowder. 

Wheat-saving  breads  as — Quick  breads,  muffins, 
etc.,  using  cornmeal,  buckwheat,  potato  flour,  oat- 
meal and  dried  fruits  if  desired. 

Yeast  bread,  using  any  of  the  cereals  mentioned 
above  and  no  fat. 

MODIFY  YOUR  OWN  RECIPES 

If  you  have  good  recipes  for  bread  of  any  kind 
make  them  conform  to  food  conservation  by  omit- 
ting sugar  and  fat  and  by  using  substitutes  in 
place  of  wheat.  Try  recipes  for  yourself  with  your 
own   substitutions. 

YEAST 

Because  of  the  high  price  of  yeast  it  may  be 
economical  when  bread  is  made  frequently  or  in 
large  quantities  to  prepare  liquid  yeast.  In  making 
the  bread  the  amount  of  yeast  used,  of  whatever 
kind,  will  depend  upon  the  time  in  which  the  proc- 
ess is  to  be  carried  through. 

Liquid  Yeast — Four  medium-sized  potatoes,  I 
quart  hot  water,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  cake  dry 
yeast,  softened  in  ^4  CUP  °f  warm  water,  or  1 
cake  compressed  yeast,    ]/^    CUP  sugar. 

Wash  pare  and  cook  the  potatoes  in  the  water. 
Drain,  mash  and  return  to  the  water.  Make  up  to 
I  quart.  Add  the  sugar  and  salt  and  allow  the 
mixture  to  cool.  When  lukewarm  add  the  yeast. 
Keep  at  room  temperature  (65°  to  70°  F.) 
for  24  hours  before  using.  If  kept  for  a  longer 
time  it  should  be  poured  into  a  sterilized  jar  and 
put   in   a   dark,    cool  place. 

Each  of  these  recipes  make  one  loaf.  The 
weight  of  the  different  breads  will  vary  from  18 
ounces   to    23    ounces. 


WHEAT  SAVING  PROGRAM  FOR  THE 
HOUSEHOLD 

UNITED  STATES   FOOD  ADMINISTRATION 
Washington,   April,    1918 

We  have  got  to  reach  the  place — each  one  of  us — where  we  define  every 
decision  in  our  lives  as  an  act  of  War  Policy.  Everything  that  we  do — plan — eat 
— wear — must  be  analyzed  and  measured  from  one  single  point  of  view:  Will  it 
contribute  to  the  carrying  on  of  the  war  or  will  it  contribute  to  its  prolongation? 
There  is  no  other  thing  in  the  world  for  us  to  do  but  to  define  everything  in  our 
lives  as  acts  of  military  necessity  or  policy. 

The  first  necessity  for  us  is  to  get  a  clear  conception  of  the  relation  of 
wheat  in  the  human  diet  and  to  divest  ourselves  of  all  preconceptions  that  are  bred 
in  us  by  generations  of  ease,  indolence  and  luxury. 

WHEAT  SAVING  PROGRAM  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 

Until  harvest  the  American  people  must  reduce  their  consumption  of  wheat 
by  one-half. 

The  leading  hotels  of  the  country  have  pledged  themselves  to  do  without 
wheat  until  the  pressure  is  eased.  Many  households  are  pledging  themselves  to 
the  same  measure  of  devotion  to  the  national  cause — no  wheat  until  harvest. 

This  is  the  "no-wheat"  program: 

Use  no  breakfast  cereal  containing  wheat. 

Use  no  wheat  flour  to  "bind"  cornmeal  or  other  cereals  in  muffins  or 

quick  breads. 
Use  barley  flour,  corn  flour,  or  cornstarch  for  thickening  soups  and 

gravies — no  wheat  at  all. 
Use  no  bread  containing  wheat  flour. 
This  is  the  "less-wheat"  program: 

Use  no  breakfast  cereal  containing  wheat. 

Use  no  wheat  flour  to  "bind"  cornmeal  or  other  cereals  in  muffins  or 

quick  breads. 
Use  no  wheat  flour  for  thickening  soups  or  gravies. 
Use  wheatless  breads  as  far    as    possible,    making    exception    where 

necessary  for  children,  aged  people,  and  invalids. 
If  bread  must  be  bought,  use  Victory  bread,  but  as  far  as  possible  let 

potatoes,  rice,  hominy,   or  other  cereals — not  including  wheat  or 

rye — take  the  place  of  bread. 

WHEAT-SAVING  SCHEDULES 

In   those   households   where    it   is    not    possible    to  I.       WITHIN   THE   ALLOWANCE 

give    up    wheat    entirely,    the    choice    lies    between  No    wheat    on    wheatless    meals    and    days,    using 

cutting   the   use   of  wheat   as    far   as   possible    below  instead  muffins,  griddle  cakes,  and  other  hot  breads 

1  J/2    pounds  per  person;  or  using  the  pound  and  a  with    100    per    cent,    substitutes,    or    using    potatoes, 

half  partly,   in   bread    and   partly   in   other  ways;   or  rice,    and    hominy    instead    of    bread.       That    is,     1  I 

using  the  pound  and  a  half  wholly  in  bread.  meals  in  the  week  with  no  wheat. 

S-23 


S-24 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


Bread  allowance:  At  the  10  remaining  meals  in 
the  week  allow  two  I  -ounce  slices  of  Victory  bread 
(equal  to  20  ounces  of  bread)  consuming  I  1  Yl 
ounces   of  wheat   flour. 

Other  wheat  products:  Choose  from  the  list 
showing  wheat  flour  in  average  servings  of  food 
those  which  contain  the  least  proportion  of  wheat 
flour,   and   serve   those  as  seldom  as   may  be. 

Omit  entirely  wheat  products,  such  as  wheat 
breakfast  cereals,  in  which  the  proportion  of  wheat 
is  large. 

II.     FULL  ALLOWANCE  WITH  VARIETY 

The  full  allowance  of  wheat  flour  is  1  Yl  pounds 
per  person  per  ■week,  including  wheat  flour  in  Vic- 
tory bread  and  all  other  wheat  products  in  any 
form. 

This  may  include  1  %  pounds  of  Victory  bread, 
which  uses  one  pound  of  wheat  flour,  leaving  one- 
half  pound  a  week  of  other  wheat  products,  to  be 
eaten  as  macaroni  or  breakfast  food,  or  used  in 
making  pastry,   cake,  and  incidental  cooking. 

Victory  bread  must  contain  at  least  25  per  cent, 
of  wheat  substitutes,  but  the  housewife  can  use 
50  per   cent,   successfully. 

SCHEDULE  OF  PORTIONS 
(These  amounts   represent  average   servings 
per  person) 
Bread  allowance: 

1  %    pounds    Victory   bread 1    pound    of    wheat 

flour. 
This    amount    is    equal    to    Ya    pound    or    four    1- 
ounce  slices  per  day. 
Breakfast  cereals: 
One  to  be  cooked 
One  ready  to  serve 


j       2  servings  per  week 

2   ounces  wheat  flour. 

Other  wheat  products: 

Macaroni  or  )  ,  , 

Spaghetti  >  '    SerVmg  P"  Week 

1    ounce   wheat   flour. 

Crackers    (2    saltines),    1    serving   per   week ]/$ 

ounce   wheat   flour. 
Soups    (thickened   cream   soups),    two   servings   per 

week — ]/2   ounce  wheat  flour. 
Sauces   and   gravies  used   once   each   day 1    ounce 

wheat  flour. 
Muffins,   2   servings  per  week    (50-50   recipe)    (2  as 

a    serving,     ^/i    ounce    white    flour) 1     ounce 

wheat  flour. 


Biscuits    (50-50   recipe)    2   servings  per  week    (2   as 

a    serving,    ]/2    ounce    flour) 1     ounce    wheat 

flour.  ' 

Cakes     (50-50    recipe),    3    servings    per    week — ty\ 
ounce  wheat  flour. 

Pie    (one  crust  50-50   recipe),   2  servings  per  week 

J/2    ounce  wheat  flour. 

Total,    I    pound,   8  ounces  wheat  flour. 

III.     WHERE  BREAD  IS  THE  MAINSTAY 

Total  allowance  in  a  few  cases  may  be  used 
wholly  as  Victory  bread. 

Two    and    one-half    pounds    Victory    bread two 

I -ounce  slices  per  meal — I  J/2    pounds  wheat  flour. 

No  flour  to  be  used  for  cooking  or  as  macaroni, 
crackers,  pastry,  cakes,  as  wheat  breakfast  cereals 
or  to  thicken  soups,  sauces,  and  gravies. 

AMOUNT  OF  WHEAT  FLOUR  IN 

AVERAGE   SERVINGS 

Breakfast  Cereals 

Ready  to  serve: 

Rolled  flakes    (  I  J/2    cups — 2   servings) 1    ounce 

wheat. 

Shredded  wheat  biscuit   (1) 1    ounce  wheat. 

Granular    (Grapenuts,    J/£    cup)  —  1    ounce  wheat. 

To  be  cooked: 

Rolled    flakes     ( ]/£     cup    cooked)  — 1/3    cup    un- 
cooked  1    ounce   wheat. 

Granular    (]/i    cup    cooked) — \/^    cup    uncooked, 

e.  g.,  Cream  of  Wheat,   Farina,  ..etc. 1    ounce 

wheat. 

Macaroni  or  spaghetti:  J/2   cup  cooked J/^  cup  un- 
cooked—  I    ounce  wheat  flour. 

Noodles:    1    tablespoon \/$    ounce   wheat   flour. 

Victory  bread:    1    ounce  slice    (3   by  3   by   Yl) — Yl 
ounce  wheat  flour. 

Crackers:   (All  wheat)    2  saltines '/^   ounce  wheat 

flour. 

Biscuit:    (50-50    recipe;    6    from    1    cup    flour),    one 
medium  biscuit J/£    ounce   wheat   flour. 

Muffins:    (50-50    recipe;    6    from    1    cup    flour),    one 
muffin Yt    ounce   wheat    flour. 

Cake:      (50-50    recipe;    24    servings    from    3    cups 

flour),   one  medium  serving J/£    ounce  wheat 

flour. 

Pie,  one  crust:    (50-50  recipe;;   6  servings  from   % 
cup),   one  serving '/$    ounce  wheat  flour. 

Soups    (thickened)  :     1     cup    serving — I     tablespoon 
flour Ya    ounce  wheat  flour. 

Sauces    (in    creamed   and    scalloped    vegetables   and 

meats,    croquettes,    etc.)  :    Ya    cup    serving Yl 

tablespoon   flour — ]/g    ounce   wheat   flour. 


VICTORY  BREADS 

This  name  may  be  given  to  any  bread  which  contains  at  least  25  per  cent* 
of  some  wheat  flour  substitute.  Satisfactory  and  palatable  yeast  breads  may  be 
made  containing  50  per  cent  substitutes.  Whenever  this  can  be  increased  it  should 
be  done.  Since  1  00  per  cent  substitutes  may  be  used  for  quick  breads,  these  should 
largely  replace  yeast  breads  while  the  shortage  of  wheat  continues. 

In  making  bread  such  substitutes  should  be  chosen  as  are  most  available  in 
the  particuler  locality.  If  yeast  bread  is  to  be  made,  a  bread  recipe  in  common  use, 
and  the  kind  of  yeast  that  is  familiar,  should  be  chosen. 

Each  locality  has  different  substitutes  for  wheat.  At  least  part  of  the  sub- 
stitutes used  should  be  cereals  that  are  easily  available,  though  it  is  sometimes 
worth  while  to  use  one  to  help  create  a  demand  even  though  it  cannot  be  had  in 
abundance  at  the  time. 

In  general,  wheat  flour  may  be  replaced  by  an  equal  weight  of  any  substi- 
tute flour.     The  comparative  weights  of  several  such  flours  are  given. 


COMPARATIVE    WEIGHT    AND    MEASURE 


cup  Wheat  flour  (bread)  (113  grams) approxi- 
mately 4  oz. 

cup  Wheat  flour  (pastry)  (100  grams) — ap- 
proximately 3 1/2   oz. 

cup    Barley    flour     (76     grams) approximately 

2  2/3  oz. 

cup  Buckwheat  flour  (133  grams) — approxi- 
mately 4  2/3  oz. 

cup  Corn  flour  (109  grams) — approximately 
4   oz. 


1    cup   Cornmeal    (coarse)  (130   grams) — approxi- 
mately 4   2/3   oz. 

1     cup    Cornmeal     (fine)      (125     grams) approxi- 
mately 4^2    oz- 

1     cup    Oats,     rolled     (75  grams) — approximately 

3  oz. 

1    cup    Fine    granulated    or   ground    rolled    oats    (98 

grams) approximately   3  J/^    oz. 

I      cup    Rice     flour      (131      grams) — approximately 

4  2/3  oz. 


*This  amount  of  substitution  was  required  on  April    14,    1918.      It  may  be  increased  later. 


RECIPES 


YEAST  BREADS 

50%   Wheat  flour  ] 

38%  Wheat  flour  substitute  I  by  weight 
12%  Potato  (1  :4  basis) 
From  various  experiments  it  was  at  first  thought 
that  in  yeast  breads  not  more  than  one-quarter  of 
the  wheat  flour  could  be  satisfactorily  replaced  by 
substitute  flours  without  materially  changing  the 
lightness  and  palatability  of  the  loaf.  Work  in  the 
experimental  kitchen  of  the  Home  Conservation 
Division  of  the  Food  Administration  has  shown 
that  a  50%  substitution  may  be  made  if  the  method 
is  slightly  modified,   or  perhaps  a   still   greater  one. 

1.  Potato   ils   used   as   one-quarter    of   the   substi- 

tute on  the  1  to  4  basis  (i.  e.  three-quarter 
of  the  weight  of  the  potato  is  reckoned  as 
water). 

2.  A   sponge   is   made   of   the    substitute    flour   in- 

stead of  the  white  flour. 

3.  The   dough  is   made   much   stiffer   than   ordin- 

ary bread   dough. 
The  recipe  given  will  make  an    I  8  to    19  oz.  loaf. 


GROUND   ROLLED   OAT  BREAD 

'/2    cup  liquid 

]/l    cake  compressed  yeast 

%    cup    (6   oz.)    mashed   potato 

I    tablespoon   syrup 

1    teaspoon  salt 

1    teaspoon   fat 

1    cup    (4^4    oz.)    ground   oats 

I  J/2    cups    (6   oz.)    ■wheat  flour 

Directions:  Make  a  sponge  of  the  liquid,  yeast, 
syrup,  mashed  potato  and  enough  of  the  ground 
oats  to  make  a  batter.  Allow  to  rise  until  light 
(about  one  hour)  and  then  add  the  salt,  fat  and 
remainder  of  the  oats  and  the  flour.  The  dough 
must  be  much  stiffer  than  ordinary  bread  dough. 

Knead  thoroughly  and  allow  to  rinse  until  double 
in  bulk.  Knead,  mold  into  a  loaf,  and  when  double 
in  bulk,  bake  50  minutes  to  one  hour.  Begin  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven  (400°  F.)-  After  15  to  20 
minutes,  lower  the  temperature  slightly  (to  390° 
F.)    and   finish  baking. 

2.       If  dry   yeast   is    used    make   the    sponge   with 


S-25 


S-26 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


Y$  to  ]/4  cake  and  allow  it  to  rise  over  night.  If 
liquid  yeast  is  preferred,  substitute  J4  CUP  ror  Yl 
cake  of  the  compressed  yeast  and  reduce  the  liquid 
in  recipe  to    Y<\   CUP* 

CORNMEAL  BREAD 

Yl  CUP  liquid 

Yl   cake  compressed  yeast 

1    tablespoon  syrup 

%    cup    (6   oz.)    mashed  potato 

I    teaspoon  salt 

1    teaspoon   fat 

1    cup   (5  oz. )   cornmeal 

1%    cups    (7  oz.)   wheat  flour 

SUBSTITUTIONS 

Follow  the  directions  for  Rolled   Oats  Bread. 

Rice  Flour  Bread  may  be  made  by  using  I  cup 
(4^4  oz)  °f  r'ce  flour  and  I  Yl  cups  (6  oz.)  of 
wheat  flour.  Buckwheat  bread  will  use  1  cup 
(5  oz.)  of  buckwheat  and  1  54  cups  (7  oz.)  of 
wheat  flour.  Barley  bread  will  need  I  2/3  cups 
(454  oz)  °f  barley  flour  and  1  Yl  cups  (6  oz. )  of 
wheat  flour.  Corn  flour  bread  may  be  made  with 
I  Yi  cups  (4  oz.)  corn  flour  and  1  2/3  cups  (654 
oz.)  of  wheat  flour.  In  each  case  all  the  other  in- 
gredients are  the  same,  and  the  same  method  is 
used  as  for  Rolled  Oat  Bread. 

BAKING  POWDER  LOAF  BREADS 
BARLEY  AND  OAT  BREAD 

50%    Barley  Flour  ) 

50%    Ground  Foiled  Oats     \hy  WClght 

1     cup    liquid 

4  tablespoons  fat 


4  tablespoons  syrup 

2  eggs 

6    teaspoons  baking   powder 

1  teaspoon    salt 

2  cups    (5   oz.)    barley  flour 

I  cup  (5  oz.)  ground  rolled  oats 
Directions:  Mix  the  liquid,  melted  fat,  syrup  and 
egg.  Combine  the  liquid  and  well  mixed  dry  in- 
gredients. Bake  immediately  as  a  loaf  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven  (400°  F.)  for  one  hour  or  until 
thoroughly  baked. 

Nuts,    raisins   or   dates   may   be   added    if   desired. 

CORN  FLOUR   AND   BUCKWHEAT   BREAD 

50%   Buckwheat  i 

50%   Corn  Flour         \hy  wei^ht 

1  cup  liquid 

4  tablespoons  fat 
4  tablespoons  syrup 

2  eggs 

6   teaspoons  baking   powder 

I    teaspoon   salt 

1     1/3   cups    (5   oz.)    corn  flour 

1    cup   (5  oz. )   buckwheat 
Follow     the     directions     under    Barley     and     Oat 
Bread. 

To  Make  Oat  and  Corn  Flour  Bread,  substitute 
I  1/3  cups  (5  oz. )  of  corn  flour  for  the  barley 
flour  in  Barley  and  Oat  Bread.  This  bread  is  par- 
ticularly good  with  the  addition  of  raisins  and 
nuts,  since  it  is  somewhat  dry.  For  Rice  and 
Barley  Bread  use  1  cup  (5  oz.)  of  rice  flour  in 
place  of  the  ground  rolled  oats  in  the  Barley  and 
Oat    Bread. 


WHEAT  FOR  LIBERTY 

UNITED   STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 
The  only  question  for  every  true-hearted  American  to-day  is:    "What  can 
I  do  to  help  win  the  war?"     The  only  answer — "Give  instantly  the  service  needed." 

"That  service  now  is  until  the  next  harvest  for  you  to  share  your  wheat 
with  your  comrades  across  the  sea — for  you  who  can  afford  it  to  give  your  whole 
share  to  them." 


WHEAT  IS  NOW  A  LUXURY  FOR  INVALIDS,  BABIES  AND  THE 

VERY  POOR 

It  Is  Not  Now  Fit  Food  for  Strong  Men  and  Women 
Autocracy  compels,  and  gives  no  reasons. 
Democracy  requests,  and  gives  reasons. 
Are  you  ready  for  Democracy? 

The  allied  countries  of  Europe  lack  wheat  because:  Belgium,  formerly 
strong,  splendid  and  free,  has  America  only  to  look  to  for  daily  bread;  England 
formerly  imported  her  wheat  from  South  America  and  Australia  as  well  as  from 
North  America;  France  and  Italy  have  lost  to  the  army  the  majority  of  their  farm- 
ers ;  their  women  are  needed  in  munition  factories  and  in  other  civil  occupations. 
Fertilizers  and  farming  tools  are  lacking. 


SUPPLEMENT— WHEAT  FOR  LIBERTY 


S-27 


The  allied  countries  of  Europe  need  wheat  because:  Bread  has  been  one  of 
the  chief  sources  of  nourishment.  Bakeries  cannot  make  raised  bread  without 
wheat  flour — French  homes  in  particular  depend  on  bakeries;  fuel  and  time  are 
lacking.'  One  bakery  can  supply  hundreds  of  families  and  so  release  hundreds  of 
pounds  of  coal,  hundreds  of  hours  of  time.  If  we  insist  upon  eating  wheat  needed 
abroad,  Liberty's  armies  and  Liberty's  civil  population  will  collapse  as  Russia  col- 
lapsed, because  the  food  supplies  of  her  armies  and  her  civil  population  failed. 

Citizens  of  America,  it  is  bad  enough  to  have  those  countries  across  the 
seas  bear  the  brunt  of  all  the  fighting.  It  is  impossible  to  believe  that  with  the  facts 
before  us,  there  is  a  living  man  or  woman  who  will  permit  those  countries  to  starve 
for  us  also.  In  old  times  the  Prophets  would  have  cursed  the  bread  so  eaten.  It 
needs  no  Prophet  now  to  say  that  there  is  a  curse  for  anyone  who  in  mere  gratifica- 
tion of  appetite  eats  wheaten  bread,  and  that  curse  proclaims  him  a  traitor  to  him- 
self and  to  his  country. 

Enough  has  been  said  and  written.  The  one  who  does  not  now  understand 
the  situation  is  an  ignoramus  or  a  slacker;  the  ignoramus  can't  and  the  slacker  won't 
understand.  The  real  pure-bred  American  from  now  on  needs  only  the  briefest 
message  from  one  whom  he  trusts. 


BROTHER,  YOUR  COMRADES  NEED   WHEAT 

The  Food  Administrator  for  America  has  said, 
"My  message  is  small  and  concrete,  the  service 
that  we  ask  of  you,  that  we  ask  of  every  well-to- 
do,  every  independent  person  in  the  United  States 
to-day  is  that  he  shall  abstain  from  the  use  of 
wheat  in  any  form  until  the  next  harvest." 

CEREALS  AND   CEREAL  SUBSTITUTES 

1 .  Banana  flour. 

2.  Barley  meal  and   flour. 

3.  Buckwheat   meal   and   flour. 

4.  Corn    grits. 

5.  Corn  meal. 

6.  Corn  flour. 

7.  Cornstarch. 

8.  Cottonseed   flour  and   meal. 

9.  Feterita   flour  and   meal. 
1 0.  Kafir    meal   and    flour. 

1  1 .    Milo   maize. 

12.  Oat  meal  and   flour. 

13.  Oats rolled. 

1  4.  Oats — granulated. 

1 5.  Peanut   flour   and   meal. 

1 6.  Potato    flour   and    starch. 
I  7.  Rice  and   rice   flour. 

1  8.    Rice — polished    or    unpolished. 
1  9.    Soya-bean   meal. 
20.    Sweet  potato   flour. 

Housewives  of  America!  Don't  wait  for  the  lat- 
est tested  recipes  from  the  Food  Administration. 
Take  down  your  old  cook  book  and  paste  this  in 
it    (with  cornstarch  paste)  : 


APPROXIMATE  EQUIVALENTS    (BY   WEIGHT) 
TO  ONE  CUP   WHEAT  FLOUR 

Cup  Cup 

Buckwheat    flour .  .       ^g       Rice   flour    % 

Corn   meal ^g       Barley  flour I  J/£ 

Corn   flour 1  Hominy   grits    ....    4/5 

Rolled   oats   ground     in    food    chopper  1  J/g 

The  above  measures  are  for  average  flours  and 
meals.  If  your  material  is  very  fine,  use  a  little 
more  than  the  above  measure;  if  very  coarse,  a 
little  less. 

If  you  have  scales,  use  them.  The  following 
weights  are  the  average  of  three  weighings  of  one 
standard  cup  of  sifted  flour  or  meal  filled  lightly, 
without  packing: 


A.      MEALS 

AND   FLOURS 

Ounces 

O 

unces 

Barley   flour, 

Rice    flour, 

approximately     .  .        3 

approximately     . 

.       5 

Buckwheat   flour, 

Wheat    flour, 

approximately     .  .        5 

approximately     . 

.      4 

Corn    flour,     approximately 

4 

B.      UNCOOKED   CEREALS 

Ounces 

O 

ances 

Corn   meal, 

Oats,    rolled, 

approximately     .  .       5 

approximately    . 

.      3 

Hominy  grits, 

Oats,    rolled 

approximately     .  .       5 

(ground), 

approximately     . 

.      5 

TESTED  WHEATLESS  RECIPES 
CARRY-ONS 

I  J/^  cups  liquid;  4  cups  barley  flour;  3  table- 
spoons fat;  6  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1  teaspoon 
salt. 


S-28 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


OVER  THE  TOPS 

I  cup  liquid;  2  2/3  cups  corn  flour;  3  table- 
spoons fat;  6  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
salt. 

RICEOAT  DEFENDERS 

1  cup  milk;  1  tablespoon  fat;  2  tablespoons 
syrup;  2  eggs;  4  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1  tea- 
spoon salt;  1/3  cup  rice  flour  (2  ounces);  I  J/£  cups 
ground   rolled   oats    (6   ounces). 

OATCORN  CONQUERORS 

1  cup  liquid;  I  tablespoon  fat;  2  tablespoons 
syrup;  1  or  2  eggs;  4  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
1  teaspoon  salt;  %  cup  ground  rolled  oats  (4 
ounces);    1    cup  corn  flour   (4  ounces). 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Half  cup  fat;  2/3  cup  sugar  (about  4%  ounces)  ; 
1  cup  syrup  (about  1  1  Yl  ounces);  3  eggs;  %  CUP 
milk;  I  teaspoon  salt;  1 '/8  cups  rice  flour  (5 
ounces)  ;  1  %  cups  barley  flour  (5  ounces)  or  rolled 
oats,  ground;  6  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon;  I  teaspoon  vanilla;  2  squares 
chocolate. 


Cream  the  fat,  sugar,  and  egg  yolk.  Add  the 
syrup  and  mix  well.  Add  alternately  the  liquid 
and  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Add  flavor- 
ing and  melted  chocolate.  Fold  in  well-beaten  egg 
white.  Bake  about  one  hour,  starting  in  a  moder- 
ate   oven,    350°    F. 177°    C.       After    20    minutes 

raise  to   400°  F. 205°   C. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Half  cup  fat;  2/3  cup  sugar  (4^4  ounces);  1 
cup    syrup    ( 1  1  Yl    ounces);    3    eggs;    Ya    cuP    milk; 

1  teaspoon  salt;  I  2/3  cups  buckwheat  flour  (8 
ounces)  ;  Yl  CUP  ground  rolled  oats  (2  ounces)  ; 
6  teaspoons  baking  powder;    1    teaspoon   cinnamon; 

2  squares   chocolate;    1    teaspoon   vanilla. 

Cream  the  fat,  sugar,  and  egg  yolk.  Add  the 
syrup  and  mix  well.  Add  alternately  the  liquid,, 
and  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Add  flavor- 
ing and  melted  chocolate.  Fold  in  well-beaten  egg 
whites.  Bake  about  one  hour,  starting  in  a  mod- 
erate   oven,    350°   F. 177°   C.      After   20    minutes 

raise  to  400°  F.— 205°  C. 


WHEATLESS  BREADS  AND  CAKES 

UNITED  STATES  FOOD  LEAFLET  NO.   20 


SAVE  THE  WHEAT  FOR  VICTORY 

Our  soldiers  and  those  of  the  Allies  who  are 
fighting  in  France  must  have  bread.  America 
must  send  them  wheat.  Every  American  has  a 
chance  to  help.  We  must  use  one-half  or  even 
less  of  the  usual  amount  of  wheat  if  our  soldiers 
are  to  have  the  bread  they  need. 

To  Save  the  Wheat  Use  the  Wheat  Substitutes. 
Corn  meal,  rolled  oats,  rice,  and  buckwheat — these 
are  usually  found  everywhere.  Besides  you  can 
now  get  barley  flour,  ground  oats,  corn  flour,  rice 
flour,  and  potato  flour  in  many  markets.  In  some 
places  peanut  flour,  sweet  potato  meal,  soy  bean 
flour,  kaffir,  milo,  and  feterita  meal  can  be  ob- 
tained for  use.  Choose  the  ones  easiest  to  get  in 
your  neighborhood  and  use  them  in  place  of  wheat. 

Whole  wheat  and  graham  flour,  macaroni,  and 
the  wheat  breakfast  foods  should  be  saved  just  the 
same  as  white  flour.  We  are  also  asked  to  save 
rye. 

Use  Quick  Breads.  American  people  have  always 
used  and  liked  quick  breads.  Try  the  wheat  sub- 
stitutes for  making  them.  They  are  delicious  ana 
they  can  save  a  great  deal  of  wheat  for  our  soldiers. 

Corn  meal  is  one  of  the  best  of  the  wheat  sub- 
stitutes.     For  its  use  see  U.  S.   Food  Leaflet  No.   2. 

QUICK  BREADS  REQUIRING  NO  WHEAT 
Barley  Biscuits 

Have  you  ever  made  barley  biscuits?  They  are 
worth  trying. 

2    cups   barley    flour;    2    tablespoons    fat;    Yl    tea" 


spoon    salt;    4    teaspoons   baking    powder;    2/3    cup 
milk. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together,  mix  in  the  fat, 
and  add  the  liquid  until  a  soft  dough  is  formed. 
Roll  to  about  three-fourths  inch  thick,  cut  with  a 
cooky  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

This  makes  a  very  good  dough  for  shortcake 
also. 

Buckwheat  Breakfast  Cake 

This  is  good,  if  served  hot. 

2  cups  buckwheat  flour;  I/4  cup  shortening;  2 
cups  sour  milk;    1    teaspoon  soda;   Yl   teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  and  bake  in  a  flat  pan  so  that  the  cake  is 
about  I  Yl  inches  thick  when  done.  Cut  in  squares 
and  serve  hot  like  corn  bread. 

Waffles  or  Griddle  Cakes 

\Yl  cups  milk;  2  eggs;  2  tablespoons  fat;  2  cups 
barley  flour;  3  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1  tea- 
spoon salt. 

Corn  flour  or  half  corn  flour  and  half  peanut 
flour  may  be   used   instead   of  barley  flour. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  slowly 
the  milk,  beaten  egg  yolk,  and  melted  fat.  Beat 
thoroughly  for  a  minute  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites.  Cook  in  hot  well-greased  waffle  iron  or 
as  griddle   cakes  on  a   hot  well-greased   griddle. 

Oats  are  good  for  quick  breads.  Rolled  oats 
may  be  ground  through  a  food  chopper  and  used  in 
this  form  in  quick  breads  or  cakes,  or  ground  oats 
may'  be  bought  as  such. 

Try  these   oatmeal  and    corn-flour   muffins: 


SUPPLEMENT— WHEATLESS  BREADS  AND  CAKES 


S-29 


Oatmeal   (Ground  Oats)   and  Corn-Flour  Muffins 

1  cup  milk;  2  eggs;  1  tablespoon  melted  fat;  I 
cup  oatmeal;  I  cup  corn  flour;  4  teaspoons  baking 
powder;    I    teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  to  the 
liquid.  Stir  in  the  melted  fat.  Bake  in  Well- 
greased   muffin  molds   for  25    minutes. 

For  Scotch  Oat  Wafers  see  U.  S.  Food  Leaflet 
No.    6. 

These  quick  breads  must  take  the  place  of  much 
of  the  yeast  bread  we  are  accustomed  to  using. 
The  yeast  bread  we  do  use  should  be  Victory  bread. 
The  bakers  of  this  country  are  now  making  this 
Victory  bread  which  contains  25  per  cent,  of  wheat 
substitutes,  just  as  the  bakers  fn  France  and  Eng- 
land are  using  wheat  substitutes  in  their  yeast 
bread.  Waste  none  of  the  bread,  for  all  products 
containing  wheat  are  precious. 

Loaf  bread  that  can  be  sliced  and  served  cold 
or  toasted  is  often  wanted.  Try  this  conservation 
loaf. 

Oat  and  Corn-Flour  Bread 

Two  cups  rolled  oats  (ground)  ;  2/3  cup  corn 
flour;  4  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1  teaspoon  salt; 
%  cup  milk;  2  eggs;  4  tablespoons  corn  syrup;  2 
tablespoons   melted   fat. 

Mix  the  melted  fat,  liquid,  syrup  and  egg.  Add 
the  well-mixed  dry  ingredients.  Bake  as  a  loaf 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  one  hour  or  longer. 
Nuts  or  raisins  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

Quick  Breads  for  Americans.  Victory  bread 
saves  wheat  flour,  but  we  can  save  more  by  making 
quick  breads,  which  require  no  wheat.  Let  Amer- 
icans use  them  now  for  the  Cause  of  Liberty.  We 
cannot  ask  the  women  of  France,  many  of  whom 
are  working  twelve  or  fourteen  hours  a  day  in 
the  field  or  factory,  to  make  these  breads.  They 
are  not  accustomed  to  them  and  have  no  ovens 
in  their  homes  for  baking.  Even  in  the  little 
country  towns  they  buy  all  their  bread  from  the 
baker,  and  the  bakeries  are  not  equipped  to  make 
such  breads.  We  cannot  ask  the  men  in  the 
trenches    to    use    the    quick    breads    either,    for    all 


their  bread   must  be   baked  by  army  bakers  in  the 
bakeries  back  of  the  lines. 

It  is  our  duty  to  use  quick  breads  here  in  Amer- 
ica, where  we  know  how  to  make  them  and  have 
facilities  for  baking  them.  Remember  when  you 
take  the  extra  trouble  to  make  a  quick  bread  for  a 
meal  you  help  to  make  it  possible  for  the  soldier 
in  the  trench  or  the  French  woman  who  is  doing 
a  man's  work  "over  there*'  to  have  a  loaf  of  bread. 

WHEATLESS    CAKE   AND   PASTRY 

Very  good  cake  and  pastry  can  be  made  from 
the   wheat   substitutes. 

Pastry 

2  cups  barley  flour;  1/3  cup  fat;  I  teaspoon  salt; 
Water  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

Combine  as  for  other  pastry. 

Chocolate   Cake 

This  is  a  true  conservation  cake,  for  it  saves 
sugar  as  well  as  wheat. 

]/4  cup  fat;  3  tablespoons  brown  sugar;  2  eggs; 
I  cup  corn  syrup;  2  squares  chocolate  (melted); 
J/2  cup  milk;  2  cups  barley  flour;  4  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder;    ]/£    teaspoon    salt;    1    teaspoon   vanilla. 

Cream  the  fat  and  sugar,  add  the  egg  yolks, 
syrup,  and  melted  chocolate,  and  beat  well.  Sift 
the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  alternately 
with  the  milk.  Add  vanilla  and  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

OTHER  WAYS  TO  SAVE  WHEAT 

Cut  your  loaf  at  the  table  slice  by  slice  as  needed. 
Waste  not  a  crumb. 

Waste  no  flour  on  the  bread  board  when  you 
make  bread. 

For  thickening Use  cornstarch  or  the  substi- 
tute flours.  Fine  corn  meal  is  good  for  dredging 
meats.      Every  little  bit   of  flour   saved   counts. 

Have  breadless  meals — Eat  potatoes  or  cooked 
cereals  to  take  the  place  of  bread.  When  you  have 
potatoes,  rice,  or  hominy  served  with  meat,  or  for 
breakfast  a  large  bowl  of  cereal,  you  do  not  need 
bread. 


S-30  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


SUPPLEMENT— WHEATLESS  BREADS  AND  CAKES  S-31 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


SAVE  SUGAR 

UNITED  STATES  FOOD  LEAFLET  NO.   15 

USE  OTHER  SWEETS 

The  Allies  need  sugar.  The  battle  lines  and  enemy  territory  now  include 
much  of  their  sugar  land,  so  that  more  and  more  they  are  turning  to  us  and  our 
sources  of  supply.     We  must  give  them  what  they  need. 

To  help  them  we  must  cut  down  our  own  consumption,  otherwise  there 
will  not  be  enough  sugar  for  us  all.  We,  in  the  past,  have  used  more  than  any 
other  people.  The  French  and  Italians  allow  themselves  only  one-fourth  pound  a 
week.     We  eat  at  least  one  pound — four  times  as  much. 

To  divide  the  worlds  sugar  more  evenly  is  a  world  problem  that  all  of  us 
can  help  solve.  Let  us  do  our  part.  We  are  asked  merely  to  cut  down  our  sugar 
from  one  pound  to  three-fourths  of  a  pound.  By  this  saving  we  can  help  win  the 
war. 


HOW  TO  SAVE  SUGAR 

Eat  less  sweet  food.  Put  less  sugar  in  tea  and 
coffee  and  dissolve  completely  what  you  do  use. 
Use  less  on  cereals.  Do  not  frost  cakes.  Eat  less 
candy. 

Instead    of    sugar    use Cane,    corn,    and    maple 

syrups,  honey,  molasses,  and  fruit  syrups.  To 
sweeten  your  cereals  serve  them  with  syrup  or  with 
sweet  fruits.  Use  them  to  make  delicious  desserts 
— honey  or  corn  syrup  for  a  delicate  flavor,  and 
molasses  or  sorghum  for  a  stronger  one.  Try 
molasses  or  syrup  in  Indian  Pudding  and  Brown 
Pudding.      (See  Leaflets  2  and   6.) 

DATE  PUDDING 

A  sugarless  pudding  which  uses  both  syrup 

and  sweet  fruit 

2  cups  milk;  Yl  CUP  corn  or  malpe  syrup;  12 
seeded  dates  cut  up  small;  3  tablespoons  corn- 
starch;  J/2    teaspoon  salt;    1    teaspoon   vanilla. 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  '/^  cup  milk.  Heat  the 
remaining  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  corn- 
starch, syrup,  dates,  and  salt,  and  stir  until  thick, 
cover  and  cook  for  20  minutes.  Add  the  vanilla 
and  pour  into  a  dish  to  cool.  Serves  five  people. 
Prunes  are  good  instead  of  dates. 

GINGERBREAD 

Always    liked    and    inexpensive 

I  cup  cornmeal;  1  cup  wheat  flour;  2  teaspoons 
cinnamon;  2  teaspoons  ginger;  ^/l  teaspoon  salt; 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  I  teaspoon  baking  soda; 
1  cup  molasses;  I  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk;  2 
tablespoons  fat. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  molasses,  milk, 
and  fat.  Beat  well  and  pour  into  a  greased  pan. 
Bake  25  minutes.  Notice  that  this  recipe  uses 
cornmeal   for  half  the  wheat   flour   ordinarily   used. 


CAKE   WITHOUT   SUGAR 

An  excellent  cake,  though  not  quite  so  sweet 

as   with  sugar 

]/4  cup  butter,  oleomargarine  or  other  fat;  2  cups 
corn  syrup;  2  eggs;  3  cups  flour;  I  J/£  tablespoons 
baking  powder;  ]/q  teaspoon  salt;    1    cup  milk. 

Cream  the  shortening,  add  the  syrup  and  the 
egg,  and  mix  well.  Add  the  milk.  Sift  the  baking 
powder  and  flour  together,  add  it  slowly  to  the 
mixture  and  beat.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  as  a 
loaf  or  layer  cake  or  small  drop  cakes.  One- 
fourth  cup  of  raisins  added  to  the  batter  gives  more 
flavor  and  sweetness. 

POPCORN 
A  splendid  substitute  for  sugar  sweets 

Pop  the  dried  corn  in  a  regular  popper  or  a 
covered  iron  frying  pan,  shaking  vigorously  and 
taking  care  not  to  let  it  burn.  A  cup  of  dried 
corn  will  make  3  quarts  when  popped.  It  is  good 
mixed   with  a   little   salt   or   melted   butter  and   salt. 

To  make  a  sweet  of  it,  combine  with  syrup.  Boil 
together  I  cup  corn  syrup  and  1  tablespoon  vinegar 
until  a  few  drops  harden  in  water.  Pour  over  the 
popped  corn  while  the  syrup  is  hot.  This  amount 
of  syrup  will  cover  3  quarts  of  popped  corn.  As 
soon  as  the  mass  is  cool  enough  to  handle,  grease 
the  hands  well  and  form  into  balls. 

STUFFED  PRUNES  AND  DATES 
Delicious  confections  to  use  instead  of  candy 

Soak  the  prunes  overnight,  dry,  and  stuff  with 
chopped  nuts,  raisins,  or  apricots.  Wash  the  dates, 
dry  them,  and  stuff  the  same  as  prunes.  These 
and  the  Parisian  Sweets  are  good  to  eat  and  good 
for   you. 


S-32 


SUPPLEMENT— SAVE  SUGAR 


S-33 


PARISIAN  SWEETS 
Another  sweet  which  is  very  good 

Use  equal  quantities  of  figs,  dates  and  nuts.  The 
nuts  may  be  omitted  and  prunes  or  raisins  added. 
Put  through  a  food  chopper.  Mix  well  and  roll 
in  a  little  powdered  sugar  or  grated  cocoanut. 

FRUIT  FOR  DESSERT 

Raw,  stewed,  or  baked  fruits,  dried  or  fresh,  and 
dried  sweet  fruits  like  dates,  figs,  and  raisins.  By 
using  fruit  for  dessert  instead  of  rich  pies  and  pud- 
dings you  will  conserve  wheat  flour  and  fats  as 
well  as  sugar.  Besides,  the  fruits  are  more  whole- 
some and  often  less  expensive.  Bake  or  stew  your 
fruit  with  corn  syrup  instead  of  sugar.  The  result 
is  very  good.  For  stewing  use  Yl  CUP  °f  syrup  to 
I  pound  of  fruit.  When  dried  fruit  is  used,  soak 
it  first  in  water  overnight  and  cook  for   1  0  minutes. 

IS  YOUR  FAMILY  SAVING  ITS  SHARE 
»        OF  SUGAR? 

Plan  saving  for  your  household.  Use  no  more 
than  three-fourths  pounds  a  week  for  each  mem- 
ber. Multiply  three-fourths  pound  by  the  number 
of  people  in  your  family  and  put  that  quantity 
aside  for  the  week's  use.  That  should  include  all 
the  sugar  you  use  in  cookery  and  on  the  table. 
Eat  less  candy.  Follow  these  suggestions  and 
recipes  and  help  the  Allies  in  their  great  need. 


DID  YOU  SIGN  THE  FOOD  PLEDGE? 

The  United  States  Food  Leaflets  Will  Help 

You  to  Keep  It 

To   help   to   save   wheat: 

No.      2.   Do  You  Know  Corn  Meal? 
No.       6.    Do   You  Know   Oatmeal? 
No.       9.    Vegetables  for  Winter. 
No.    10    Plenty   of   Potatoes. 

To  help  you  save  fat: 

No.    I  6.      Use  Fat  Carefully. 

To  help  you  save  meat: 


A  Whole  Dinner  in  One  Dish. 

Make  a  Little  Meat  Go  a  Long  Way. 

Instead  of  Meat. 


No.       3. 

No.       5. 

No.       8. 

No.  II.    Milk — The  Best  Food  We  Have. 

No.  1 4.    Dried   Beans  and   Peas. 

No.  1  7.    Use  More  Fish. 

To  help  you  plan  meals: 

No.       1.   Start  the  Day  Right  with  a  Good 

Breakfast. 
No.       4.    Choose  Your  Food  Wisely. 
No.       7.    Food  for  Your  Children. 

To  help  you  save  fuel: 

No.     I  2.    Save  Fuel  When  You  Cook. 

No.     13.    Let  the  Fireless  Cooker  Help  You  Cook. 


SAVE  MEAT 

MAKE  A  LITTLE  MEAT  GO  A  LONG  WAY 

UNITED  STATES  FOOD  LEAFLET  NO.  5 

USE  SAVORY  STEWS  AND  MEAT  PIES 

Do  you  know  how  good  they  are?  They  may  be  so  varied  that  you  can 
have  a  different  one  every  day  in  the  week,  and  all  of  them  delicious.  It  needs 
only  a  small  piece  of  meat  to  give  flavor  to  a  hearty  dish. 

Don't  think  that  you  must  eat  a  lot  of  meat  to  be  strong.  Meat  is  good  to 
help  build  up  the  body,  but  so  are  many  other  foods. 

In  these  dishes  part  of  your  building  material  comes  from  the  more  expen- 
sive meat  and  part  from  the  cheaper  peas,  beans,  hominy,  and  barley.  The  little 
meat  with  the  vegetables  and  cereals  will  give  the  body  what  it  needs. 


SAVORY  STEWS 
Try    them.      They    can   be    a    whole    meal    and    a 
nutritious  one.      These  recipes  serve  five  people. 
Here  is  an  English  stew  that  is  especially   good: 

HOT  POT  OF  MUTTON  AND  BARLEY 

1  pound  mutton;  Yl  cup  pearled  barley;  I  table- 
spoon salt;  4  potatoes;  3  onions;  Celery  tops  or 
other  seasoning  herbs. 


Cut  the  mutton  in  small  pieces,  and  brown  with 
the  onion  in  fat  cut  from  meat.  This  will  help  make 
the  meat  tender  and  improves  the  flavor.  Pour 
this  into  a  covered  saucepan.  Add  2  quarts  water 
and  the  barley.  Simmer  for  I  Yl  hours.  Then  add 
the  potatoes  cut  in  quarters,  seasoning  herbs,  and 
seasoning,  and  cook  one-half  hour  longer. 


S-34 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


SAVORY  STEWS  AND  MEAT  PIES 
BEEF   STEW 

1  pound  beef;  4  potatoes  cut  in  quarters;  j/^  peck 
peas  or  I  can;  1  cup  carrots  cut  up  small;  I  tea- 
spoon salt. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  and  brown  in  the 
fat  from  the  meat.  Simmer  in  2  quarts  of  water 
for  I  hour.  Add  the  peas  and  carrots  and  cook  for 
one-half  hour,  then  add  the  potatoes.  If  canned 
peas  are  used,  add  them  1  0  minutes  before  serving. 
Serve  when  potatoes  are  done. 

DIFFERENT   STEWS 

Here  is  the  way  you  can  change  the  stews  to 
make  them  different  and  to  suit  the  season: 

1.  The  meat. — This  may  be  any  kind  and  more 
or  less  than  a  pound  may  be  used.  Use  the  cheap 
cuts,  the  flank,  rump,  neck,  or  brisket.  The  long, 
slow  cooking  makes  them  tender.  Game  and 
poultry  are   good. 

2.  Potatoes  and  barley  may  be  used  or  barley 
alone,  or  rice,   hominy,   or  macaroni. 

3.  Vegetables. — Carrots,  turnips,  onions,  peas, 
beans,  cabbage,  tomatoes  are  good,  canned  or 
fresh.      Use  one  or  more  of  these,  as  you  wish. 

4.  Parsley,  celery  tops,  onion  tops,  seasoning 
herbs,  or  chopped  sweet  peppers  add  to  the  flavor. 

5.  Many  left-overs  may  be  used — not  only  meat 
and  vegetables,  but  rice  or  hominy. 

HOW  TO  COOK  THE  STEWS 

All  kinds  of  stews  are  cooked  in  just  about  the 
same  way.  Here  are  directions  which  will  serve 
for  making  almost  any  kind. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  and/  brown  with 
the  onion  in  the  fat  cut  from  the  meat.  Add  the 
salt  and  pepper,  seasoning  vegetables  (onion,  celery 
tops,  etc.) ,  2  quarts  of  water,  and  the  rice,  or 
other  cereal,  if  it  is  to  be  used.      Cook  for  an  hour, 


then  add  the  vegetables  except  potatoes.  Cook 
the  stew  for  half  an  hour,  add  the  potatoes  cut  in 
quarters,  c.ook  for  another  half  an  hour,  and  serve. 

The  fireless  cooker  may  well  be  used,  the  meat 
and  the  vegetables  being  put  in  at  the   same   time. 

Left-overs  or  canned  vegetables  need  only  to  be 
heated  through.  Add  them  1 5  minutes  before 
serving. 

Dried  peas  or  beans  should  be  soaked  over  night 
and  cooked  for  3  hours  before  adding  to  the 
stew;  or,  better,  cook  them  over  night  in  a  fireless 
cooker. 

THE  BEST  WAY  TO  MAKE  A  LITTLE  MEAT 
GO  A  LONG  WAY 

MEAT  PIES 

Another  good  way  to  use  a  little  meat.  Have 
you  ever  used  rice,  corn  meal  mush,  or  hominy  for 
a  crust?  This  is  less  work  than  a  pastry  crust  and 
saves  wheat.  * 

4  cups  cooked  corn  meal,  rice,  or  hominy;  1 
onion;  2  cups  tomato;  ]/g  teaspoon  pepper;  1  table- 
spoon fat;  I  pound  raw  meat  or  left-over  meat  cut 
up  small;   Yl   teaspoon  salt. 

Melt  the  fat,  add  the  sliced  onion,  and,  if  raw 
meat  is  used,  add  it  and  stir  until  the  red  color 
disappears.  Add  the  tomato  and  seasoning.  If 
cooked  meat  is  used,  add  it  with  the  tomato  and 
seasoning,  after  the  onion  is  browned,  and  heat 
through.  Grease  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of 
the  cereal,  add  the  meat  and  gravy,  and  cover  with 
the  cereal  dotted  with  fat.      Bake  for  half  an  hour. 

SHEPHERD'S   PIE 

This  is  the  name  of  a  meat  pie  with  a  mashed- 
potato  crust  browned  in  the  oven. 

Try  These  Recipes  and  Cut  Down  Your 
Meat  Bills 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


THE   FISH    SITUATION 

UNITED   STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 

May  11,  1918. 

Extreme  shortage  in  supplies  of  salt  water  fish  on  the  Atlantic  seaboard 
during  the  winter  and  early  spring  months  has  largely  been  remedied,  the  United 
States  Food  Administration  has  announced.  The  shortage  has  been  due  to  the 
necessary  taking  over  of  trawlers  for  naval  purposes  and  the  recruiting  of  deep- 
sea  fishermen  by  the  Navy.  The  trawler  production  of  deep-sea  fish  has  now 
been  materially  increased  by  free  admission  of  Canadian  trawlers  and  new  con- 
struction. Beyond  this,  certain  State  restrictions  on  littoral  fishing  have  been 
lifted. 

Supplies  are  being  rapidly  augmented.  While  the  runs  of  migratory  shore 
fish  did  not  begin  until  late  in  the  Fall  and  maximum  catches  of  the  different  vari- 
eties was  not  felt  until  the  latter  part  of  May,  wholesale  prices  quite  generally  are 
already  down  to  relatively  low  levels,  and  should  remain  on  this  basis  except  when 
storms  and  climatic  changes  in  the  various  districts  bring  about  temporary  short- 
ages. 

On  every  day  in  each  week  and  continuously  during  the  present  season  from  May  to  December, 
some  of  the  many  varieties  of  salt  water  fish  will  be  available  and  sold  in  the  wholesale  markets  along 
the  Atlantic  Coast  at  prices  ranging  from  four  to  six  cents  per  pound.  In  view  of  these  conditions,  all 
retailers  in  the  large  cities  along  the  Atlantic  Coast  and  in  the  towns  and  cities  of  the  interior,  within 
reachable  transportation  distance  from  the  Atlantic  seaboard,  will  be  able  to  sell  every  weekday  at  least 
one  variety  of  fish  at  a  retail  price  to  consumers  of  ten  cents  per  pound  or  under.  Any  retail  dealer 
who  does  not  conform  to  these  conditions  and  offer  at  least  one  kind  of  fish  to  the  public  at  the  max- 
imum retail  price  mentioned  is  not  patriotically  co-operating  with  the  Food  Administration  and  his  cus- 
tomers. 

The  particular  variety  sold  by  the  retailer  on  this  ten-cent  basis  must  necessarily  vary  from  day 
to  day  with  the  available  supplies.  Fish  now  available  on  the  low-priced  basis  include  market  cod, 
scrod  cod,  scrod  haddock,  haddock,  medium  hake,  skate  wings,  grayfish,  ling,  flounders,  shad  herring, 
herring,  whiting,  croakers,  butterfish  (small),  spotted  trout  (small),  weakfish  (small),  small  shad  (known 
as  jacks  or  skips),  tinker  mackerel,  squid,  small  Boston  mackerel,  drum,  menhaden,  shark,  sea  robins, 
spots.  Others  will  be  added  as  the  runs  of  the  shore  varieties  strike  on  through  the  different  Atlantic 
Coast   districts    in    heavier   volumes. 

The  country  was  threatened  with  what  amounted  to  a  practical  fish  famine  during  the  winter. 
The  shortage  arose  fundamentally  from  the  necessities  of  the  Navy  in  requisitioning  deep-sea  trawlers 
and  other  fishing  vessels  and  in  recruiting  fishermen  for  naval  service.  How  important  this  has  been 
may  be  seen  from  the  fact  that  the  trawler  capacity  supplying  the  New  England  districts  was  decreased 
last    summer    from    an    annual    capacity    of    approximately  sixty  million  pounds  to  thirty-five  million  pounds. 

A  substantial  number  of  new  trawlers  are  now  on  the  ways  and  approaching  completion.  Owing 
to  the  action  of  Secretary  Redfield  in  opening  up  our  fishing  ports  to  Canadian  vessels,  several  Canadian 
trawlers  are  now  fishing  to  our  markets.  There  is  every  prospect  of  acquiring  trawlers  from  the  Scandi- 
navian fisheries  for  use  in  this  country.  In  the  meantime,  the  relaxation  of  State  regulations  that  have 
been  effected  by  the  Food  Administration  should  tend  to  increase  greatly  the  production  of  the  shore 
fisheries,   and  its  reflex  will  be  steadily  shown  in  the   wholesale  prices   of   fish   as   the   season   progresses. 

With  the  approach  of  next  winter,  the  Food  Administration  is  confident  the  deep-sea  fishing  and 
the    winter    production    of    ground    fish    through    the    various  sources  indicated  should  be  restored  to  normal. 


S-35 


S-36  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


WHEATLESS  RECIPES 

UNITED   STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 

Tested  in  the  Experimental  Kitchen  of  the  Food  Administration  (Conservation 
Division)  and  the  Department  of  Agriculture 

Washington,  April,  1918. 

BAKING   POWDER   LOAF   BREADS 

(Using  no  Wheat) 

All    Measurements    Are    Level. In    the    following     recipes    the    weights     given     are    accurate.      The 

measurements  are  approximate;  that  is,  they  are  given  in  the  nearest  fraction  of  a  cup  which  a  housewife 
ordinarily  uses.  It  is  convenient  to  remember  in  measuring  unusual  fractions  that  two  level  tablespoons 
are  one-eighth   cup. 

METHOD 

Mix   the   melted   fat,    liquid,    syrup,    and    egg.      Combine    the    liquid    and    well    mixed    dry    ingredients. 
Bake  as  a  loaf  in  a  moderately  hot  oven    (205°  C.  or  400°  F.)    for  one  hour  or  until  thoroughly  baked. 
Nuts,    raisins,    or  dates   may  be   added,    making  the  breads  more  nutritious  and  very  palatable. 

LOAF  BREADS 

OAT  AND  CORN  FLOUR  BREAD  CORN  FLOUR  AND  BUCKWHEAT  BREAD 

50  Per  Cent  Ground  Rolled  Oats  50  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour 

50  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour  50  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 

One  cup  liquid,  2  to  4  tablespoons  fat,  4  table-  One  cup  liquid,  2  to  4  tablespoons  fat,  4  table- 
spoons syrup,  2  eggs,  6  teaspoons  baking  powder,  spoons  syrup,  2  eggs,  6  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  IJ/^  cups  (5  ounces)  corn  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  Ya  cups  (5  ounces)  corn  flour, 
1  J/2   cups   (5   ounces)    ground  rolled  oats.  I    cup    (5   ounces)    buckwheat. 

RICE  AND  BARLEY  BREAD  BARLEY  AND   OAT  BREAD 

50  Per  Cent  Rice  Flour  50  Per  Cent  Barley  Flour 

50  Per  Cent  Barley  Flour  50  Per  Cent  Ground  Rolled  Oats 

One  cup  liquid,  2  to  4  tablespoons  fat,  4  table-  One  cup  liquid,  2  to  4  tablespoons  fat,  4  table- 
spoons syrup,  2  eggs,  6  teaspoons  baking  powder,  spoons  syrup,  2  eggs,  6  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
I  teaspoon  salt,  1  J/8  cups  (5  ounces)  rice  flour,  I  teaspoon  salt,  1  %  cups  (5  ounces)  barley  flour, 
1%   cups    (5   ounces)    barley  flour.  1  J/2    cups    (5   ounces)    ground  rolled  oats. 

COMBINATION  MUFFINS 

(Using   no   Wheat) 
METHOD   OF  MIXING 

Add  to  the  cup  of  milk  the  melted  fat,  syrup,  and  slightly  beaten  egg;  sift  the  salt,  baking  powder 
and  flour  together.  Use  a  coarse  sieve  so  that  no  part  of  the  flour  is  wasted.  Combine  the  two  mixtures, 
stirring  lightly  without  beating.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (427°  F.  or  225°  C.)  for  20  to  30  minutes,  de- 
pending  upon    the    size    of    the    muffins. 

These  recipes  make  24   small  muffins    (3    of  which  make  a  2-ounce  serving)    or  8  very  large  muffins. 

The  ground  rolled  oats  are  the  same  as  rolled  oats  ground  in  a  food  chopper.  When  using  oats, 
mix  them  with  the   other  sifted  dry  ingredients. 

When    cornmeal    is    used,     mix — do    not    sift the   ingredients. 

Suggestions. — The  wheat  substitute  recipes  given  below  show  that  a  wide  variety  of  combinations 
is  possible   even  when  limited   to   the   use   of  a   few  substitutes. 

All  of  the  combinations  are  good.  In  nearly  all  cases  a  combination  of  substitutes  makes  a  better 
product  than  the  use  of  only  one  substitute. 

Muffins    containing    oats    have    a    particularly    pleasant  flavor. 

Other  substitutes  used  with  buckwheat  will  modify  the  color  and  improve  the  flavor  of  the  product. 
The  use  of  molasses  will  also  do  this. 

S-3  7 


S-38 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


1.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

50    Per    Cent    Barley 
50  Per  Cent  Oats 

One  cup  liquid,  I  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  Yl  cups  barley  flour  (4  ounces), 
1  Ys   cups  ground   rolled  oats    (4   ounces). 

2.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

75   Per  Cent  Barley 
25  Per  Cent  Oats 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  I  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  2J4  cups  barley  (6  ounces),  Yl  CUP 
ground    rolled    oats    (2    ounces). 

3.  COMBINATION   SUBSTITUTE   MUFFINS 

50  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 
50  Per  Cent  Oats 

One  cup  liquid,  I  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  %  cup  buckwheat  (4  ounces), 
I  Yb    cups   oats,    ground    (4    ounces). 

4.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE   MUFFINS 

75  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 
25  Per  Cent  Oats 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  Y  cups  buckwheat  (6  ounces), 
Yz   CUP   ground  oats    (2   ounces). 

5.  COMBINATION   SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

50  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 
50  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  ^4  cup  buckwheat  (4  ounces), 
1    cup  corn  flour    (4  ounces). 

6.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE   MUFFINS 

75  Per  Cent  Barley 

25  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  7-Ya  cups  barley  flour  (6  ounces), 
Yl   cup  corn  flour   (2   ounces). 

7.  COMBINATION   SUBSTITUTE   MUFFINS 

50  Per  Cent  Ground  Rolled  Oats 
50   Per   Cent   Corn   Flour 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  I  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  J/g  cups  ground  rolled  oats  (4 
ounces),    1    cup    corn   flour    (4   ounces). 

8.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

25  Per  Cent  Ground  Rolled  Oats 
75   Per   Cent   Corn  Flour 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  I  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  Yl  CUP  rolled  oats,  ground  (2 
ounces),    I  Yl   cups  coin   flour    (6   ounc2s)r 


9.  COMBINATION   SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

50  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 
50   Per   Cent   Barley 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  I  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  24  cup  buckwheat  (4  ounces),  1  Yl 
cups  barley  flour    (4  ounces). 

10.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

25  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 
75  Per  Cent  Barley 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  CUP  buckwheat  (2  ounces), 
2'/4    cups  barley   flour    (6   ounces). 

1 1 .  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

50  Per  Cent  Rice  Flour 
50  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  Y%  CUP  rice  flour  (4  ounces), 
"Y^    cup  buckwheat    (4   ounces). 

12  7   COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 
75  Per  Cent  Rice  Flour 
25  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 

One  cup  liquid,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  I  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
I  teaspoon  salt,  I  1/3  cups  rice  flour  (6  ounces), 
^8   cup  buckwheat   (2  ounces). 

13.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

25  Per  Cent  Rice  Flour 
75  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 

One  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
I  teaspoon  salt,  %  cup  rice  flour  (2  ounces), 
I  ]/4    cups  buckwheat    (6   ounces). 

14.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

25  Per  Cent  Rice  Flour 

75  Per  Cent  Ground  Rolled   Oats 

One  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  I  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  ^g  cup  rice  flour  (2  ounces), 
1  Y4   cups   ground   rolled  oats    (6  ounces. 

15.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

50  Per  Cent  Rice  Flour 

50  Per  Cent  Ground  Rolled  Oats 

One  cup  milk,  I  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  Y&  cup  rice  flour  (4  ounces), 
1^8    cups   ground    rolled   oats    (4   ounces). 


SUPPLEMENT— WHEATLESS  RECIPES 


S-39 


16.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

25  Per  Cent  Rice  Flour 
75  Per  Cent  Barley  Flour 

One  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  %  cup  rice  flour  (2  ounces), 
2 J/4    cups  barley  flour    (6  ounces). 

17.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

50  Per  Cent  Rice  Flour 
50  Per  Cent  Barley  Flour 

One  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  %  cup  rice  flour  (4  ounces), 
1  J/2    cups   barley   flour    (4    ounces). 

18.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

25  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 
75  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour 

One  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  ^g  cup  buckwheat  (2  ounces), 
1  J/2    cups  corn   flour    (6   ounces). 


19.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

25  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 

75  Per  Cent  Ground  Rolled  Oats 

One  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  Yt,  CUP  buckwheat  (2  ounces), 
1  Y$    cups   ground    rolled   oats    (6   ounces). 

20.  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

75  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour 
25  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 

One  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  I  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
I  teaspoon  salt,  I  J/^  cups  corn  flour  (6  ounces), 
1/3    cup   buckwheat    (2    ounces). 

21 .  COMBINATION  SUBSTITUTE  MUFFINS 

50  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour 
50  Per  Cent  Barley  Flour 

One  cup  milk,  I  tablespoon  fat,  2  tablespoons 
syrup,  1  or  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
I  teaspoon  salt,  1  J/2  cups  barley  flour  (4  ounces), 
1    cup  corn  flour    (4  ounces). 


BISCUIT 

(Using   no   Wheat) 
METHOD 

Sift  dry  materials  together.  Work  in  fat  well.  Combine  liquid  and  dry  materials,  handling  lightly. 
Roll   or  pat    J/2    inch   thick  and   cut  as  biscuits.      Bake    in  a  hot  oven. 

Use   a   coarse   sifter   or   mix   instead    of  sifting   if  the    flours  are   coarse,    so   that  none   is  wasted. 

Biscuits  made  of  the  substitutes  are  less  like  the  normal  wheat  flour  product,  particularly  in  texture, 
than   are  the  muffins,   loaf  breads,    and   cakes. 

If  one-fourth  more  liquid   is   used,   a  drop   biscuit  having  better  texture  is  the   result. 


1.     BARLEY   BISCUIT 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  liquid,  4  cups  barley 
flour,  3  tablespoons  fat,  6  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der,   I    teaspoon  salt. 

Appearance,    light,    well    risen,    good    shape. 
Texture,   good. 

Color,  somewhat  dark,   but  typical  of  barley. 
Flavor,   typical  of  barley;   good. 

Comment:  These  biscuits  do  not  get  light  and 
fluffy  as  wheat  biscuits,  but  are  still  a  desirable 
and   edible  product. 

2.    CORN    FLOUR    BISCUIT 

One  cup  liquid,  2  2/3  cups  corn  flour,  3  table- 
spoons fat,  6  teaspoons  baking  powder,  I  teaspoon 
salt. 

Appearance,    good. 

Texture,   very   dry  and   close. 

Color,    white. 

Flavor,    corn   flavor. 


3 .  BUCKWHEAT-CORN  FLOUR  BISCUIT 

50    Per    Cent   Buckwheat 
50  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour 

One  cup  liquid,  1  J/£  cups  buckwheat,  1  I  /3  cups 
corn  flour,  3  tablespoons  fat,  6  teaspoons  baking 
powder,    1    teaspoon   salt. 

Appearance,    dark,    but    good   shape. 

Texture,   good;  similar  to  wheat. 

Color,   light  chocolate  color. 

Flavor,    typical  buckwheat. 

Comment:  Dough  very  soft,  almost  consistency 
of  a  drop  biscuit. 

4.  CORN  FLOUR-ROLLED  OAT  BISCUIT 

50  Per  Cent  Ground  Rolled  Oats 
50  Per  Cent  Corn  Flour 

One  cup  liquid,  1  1  /3  cups  corn  flour,  1  cup 
ground  oats,  3  tablespoons  fat,  6  teaspoons  baking 
powder,    1    teaspoon  salt. 

Appearance,   rough,  but  appetizing. 

Texture,   light. 

Flavor,  very  good. 

Color,  slightly  dark;  attractive. 


S-40 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


CAKES 

(Cakes  made  with  wheat  flour  substitutes  containing  no  wheat  flour) 
SPONGE  CAKES,  SPICE  CAKES,  AND  CHOCOLATE  CAKES 


BARLEY  SPONGE  CAKE 

One  and  one-third  cups  barley  flour  (3>V2 
ounces),  I  cup  sugar  (7  ounces),  4  eggs  (7 
ounces),  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  '/a  teaspoon 
salt. 

CORN    (FLOUR)    SPONGE  CAKE 

Seven-eighths  cup  corn  flour  (3^  ounces),  1 
cup  sugar  (7  ounces),  4  eggs  (7  ounces),  2  table- 
spoons  lemon   juice,    Y%    teaspoon   salt. 

OAT  SPONGE  CAKE 

One-half  cup  oat  flour  (2  2/3  ounces),  >/4  cup 
corn  flour  (1  ounce),  I  cup  sugar  (7  ounces), 
4  eggs  (7  ounces),  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  ]/& 
teaspoon  salt. 

RICE  SPONGE  CAKE 

Three-quarters  cup  rice  flour  (3J/2  ounces), 
1  cup  sugar  (7  ounces),  4  eggs  (7  ounces),  2 
tablespoons   lemon   juice,    J4    teaspoon   salt. 

Methods  of  Mixing  Sponge  Cakes — Separate 
whites  and  yolks.  Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and 
light  lemon  color.  Beat  sugar  into  the  stiffened 
yolks  and  add  the  lemon  juice.  Fold  in  alter- 
nately the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  flour.  Bake 
in  an  ungreased  pan  for  35  to  40  miriutes.  Start 
in  a  moderate  oven  (365°  F.  or  185°  C),  and 
when  about  half  done  raise  the  temperature  to 
that  of  a  hot  oven   (400°. F.  or  205°  C). 

Results  of  Sponge  Cakes — These  cakes  are  all 
very  nice  and  light,  texture  and  color  good.  Bar- 
ley has  characteristic  flavor.  Corn  cake  is  espe- 
cially tender,  and  all  are  good  textured.  The 
extra  lemon  juice  used  with  rice  and  corn  seems 
necessary  to   improve   the.  flavor. 

SPICE  CAKE 
100  Per  Cent  Barley  Flour 

One-half  cup  fat,  2/3  cup  sugar  (4%  ounces), 
1  cup  syrup  ( 1  1  ]/2  ounces),  3  eggs,  %  cup  milk, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  salt,  6  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  '/2  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  ]/2  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  allspice, 
3%    cups  barley  flour    (10   ounces),    1    cup   raisins. 

Method — Cream  the  fat,  sugar,  and  egg  yolk. 
Add  the  syrup  and  mix  well.  Add  alternately 
the  liquid  and  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together. 
Add  the  raisins  and  fold  in  the  well-beaten  egg 
whites.  Bake  as  a  loaf  for  one  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  (350°  F.  or  170°  C).  After  20  min- 
utes  raise  the  temperature   to    400°  F.    or  205°   C. 


SPICE  CAKE 
50   Per   Cent  Rice   Flour 
50  Per  Cent  Buckwheat 

One-half  cup  fat,  2/3  cup  sugar  (4%  ounces), 
I  cup  syrup  (.WYl  ounces) ,  3  eggs,  %  cup  milk 
(6  ounces),  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
6  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Yz  teaspoon  ginger, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ]/2  teaspoon  cloves,  I  tea- 
spoon allspice,  l'g  cups  rice  flour  (5  ounces),  1 
cup  buckwheat  (5  ounces). 

Method Cream    the    fat,    sugar,    and    egg    yolk. 

Add  the  syrup  and  mix  well.  Add  alternately  the 
liquid  and  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Add 
the  flavoring  and  fold  in  the  well  beaten  egg  whites. 
Bake  as  a  loaf  for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven 
350°  F.  (170°  C).  After  20  minutes  raise  the 
temperature  to  400°  F.    (205°   C.) 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
50  Per   Cent   Ground    Rolled    Oats 
50  Per  Cent  Barley  Flour 

One-half  cup  fat,  2/3  cup  sugar  (4%  ounces), 
1  cup  syrup  ( 1  I  Yl  ounces),  3  eggs,  %  CUP  milk, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  6  teaspoons  baking  powder,  I  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  2  squares  chocolate  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  I  ]/l  cups  ground  rolled  oats  (5  ounces), 
1^8    cups  barley   flour    (5    ounces). 

Method — Cream  the  fat,  sugar,  and  egg  yolk. 
Add  the  syrup  and  mix  well.  Add  alternately  the 
liquid  and  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Add 
flavoring  and  melted  chocolate.  Fold  in  well 
beaten  egg  white.  Bake  as  a  loaf  about  one  hour, 
starting  in  a  moderate  oven  350°  F.  (177°  C). 
After  20  minutes  raise  to  400°  F.    (205°  C). 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
75   Per  Cent   Corn .  Flour 
25    Per   Cent   Ground   Rolled    Oats 

One-half  cup  fat,  2/3  cup  sugar,  (4%  ounces),  1 
cup  syrup  (\\]/2  ounces),  3  eggs,  ^4  cup  milk,  I 
teaspoon  salt,  6  teaspoons  baking  powder,  I  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  2  squares  chocolate,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  2  cups  corn  flour  (8  ounces),  ]/2  cup 
ground    rolled    oats    (2    ounces). 

Method Cream    the    fat,    sugar,    and    egg    yolk. 

Add  the  syrup  and  mix  well.  Add  alternately  the 
liquid  and  the  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Add 
flavoring  and  melted  chocolate.  Fold  in  well 
beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  as  a  loaf  about  one  hour, 
starting  in  a  moderate  oven  350°  F.  (177°  C.) 
After  20  minutes  raise  to  400°  F.    (205°  C). 


SUPPLEMENT— WHEATLESS  RECIPES  S-41 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


S-42 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


USE  BARLEY  SAVE  WHEAT 

UNITED  STATES  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
THE  STATES  RELATIONS  SERVICE 


Washington,  April   18,   1918. 

Barley  is  grown  in  large  quantities  in  the  United  States  and  it  is  now  being 
ground  into  flour,  though  until  lately  it  was  more  generally  used  for  other  purposes. 
It  is  a  palatable,  wholesome  grain  which  has  long  been  used  in  infant  feeding  and, 
to  some  extent,  for  general  cookery,  and  which  can  now  be  used  in  quantity  to 
save  wheat.  You  will  find  barley  flour  one  of  the  best  of  the  wheat  substitutes. 
Delicious  breads  and  cakes  can  be  made  by  using  it  to  replace  all  or  part  of  the 
wheat  flour. 

The  use  of  barley  flour  for  such  purposes,  though  new  to  most  of  us,  is 
not  new  to  some  people.  Not  many  years  ago  barley  was  used  more  extensively 
than  wheat  for  bread  making  in  many  of  the  European  countries.  Let  us  revive 
the  art  of  barley  cookery  and,  by  so  doing,  "stretch"  our  supply  of  wheat  flour  so 
that  it  may  go  farther  to  meet  the  needs  of  our  Allies.  We  can  easily  do  this  and 
at  the  same  time  serve  our  families  with  delicious  bread,  muffins,  biscuit,  and 
pastry. 


USE  BARLEY — SAVE  WHEAT 

Hundreds  of  millions  of  bushels  of  barley  are 
raised  yearly  in  the  United  States.  This  supply, 
heretofore,  has  been  used  chiefly  for  stock  feed  or 
for  malting,  but  under  present  conditions  the 
greater  part  of  the  crop  is  being  milled  into  flour, 
which,  since  it  is  both  palatable  and  nutritious,  may 
well  be  used  to  meet  the  increasing  demand  for 
wheat  substitutes.  This  flour  is  now  on  the  mar- 
ket, and  it  is  our  patriotic  duty  to  use  it  to  save 
the  wheat   flour. 

Give   barley  flour  a   trial you  will  wonder  why 

we  did  not  use  it  more  before  the  war. 

Barley  flour  does  not  keep  so  well  as  wheat 
flour,  so  it  is  best  to  buy  it  in  small  quantities,  even 
for  home  consumption. 

The  recipes  which  follow  have  been  tested  in 
the  experimental  kitchen  of  the  Office  of  Home 
Economics. 

Note All  measures  are  level. 

HOT  BREADS 

Barley   flour   is   very   satisfactory   for   hot  breads. 

BARLEY   QUICK  BISCUITS 

Two  cups  barley  flour,  Yl  teaspoon  salt,  2  table- 
spoons fat,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2/3  cup 
milk. 

BARLEY  DROP  BISCUITS 

Two  cups  barley  flour,  Yl  teaspoon  salt,  4  table- 
spoons fat,  6  teaspoons  baking  powder,    1    cup  milk. 

Baked  in  a  sheet  this  makes  a  good  shortcake 
buttered  and  served  with  fresh  crushed  berries  or 
other  fruit. 


BARLEY   WAFFLES 

Two  cups  barley  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  1  Yl  cups  milk,  2  eggs,  3 
tablespoons  melted  fat. 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  slowly 
the  milk,  beaten  egg  yolk,  and  melted  fat.  Fold 
in  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Beat  thoroughly  and  cook 
in  hot,  well-greased  waffle  irons. 

BARLEY   MUFFINS 

Two  and  three-quarter  cups  barley  flour,  1  cup 
milk,  2  tablespoons  corn  syrup,  4  teaspoons  baking 
powder,    1    tablespoon  fat,    1    egg,    Ya   teaspoon  salt. 

BARLEY   SPOON    BREAD 

One  cup  barley  flour,  I  cup  hot  boiled  hominy 
grits,  3  tablespoons  fat,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups 
milk,   2   eggs,   2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

BARLEY  YEAST  BREAD 

If  you  use  you  own  bread  recipe  and  replace 
one-fourth  of  the  wheat  flour  with  barley  flour, 
you  will  be  able  to  make  a  very  good  bread.  With 
the  present  need  of  saving  flour,  it  will  be  desirable 
for  the  housekeeper  to  make  less  yeast  bread  than 
usual,  as  one  cannot  use  so  large  a  percentage  of 
wheat  substitute  in  making  yeast  breads  as  in  quick 
breads. 

BARLEY  PASTRY 

Very  good  pie  crust  can  be  made  with  all-barley 
flour  or  by  using  one-half  barley  and  one-half 
wheat  flour.  The  first  recipe  is  especially  good 
for  a  one-crust  pie. 


S-43 


S-44 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


PlE  CRUST 

One  cup  barley  flour,  2  2/3  tablespoons  fat, 
Y&   teaspoon  salt,   cold  water. 

CAKES   AND    COOKIES 

It  is  not  necessary  to  go  without  cake  when 
such  delicious  products  can  be  made  that  use  no 
wheat  flour  and  little  sugar.  In  these  recipes  the 
housekeeper,  if  she  prefers,  can  use  cream  of  tartar 
with  baking  soda  in  the  usual  proportions  in  place 
of  baking  powder. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Two  cups  barley  flour,  Y  cup  fat,  Y$  teaspoon 
salt,  2  .squares  chocolate,  Yl  CUP  mllk,  4  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  3  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
corn  syrup,  2  eggs,  -whites  and  yolks,  beaten  separ- 
ately,   1    teaspoon  vanilla. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  barley  flour,  4  eggs,  1 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  Yl  cups  corn  syrup,  J4 
teaspoon  salt,   2   teaspoons  baking  powder. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Two  and   one-quarter   cups  barley  flour,    '/t    cup 


fat,  3  tablespoons  molasses,  Yl  CUP  chopped  raisins, 
Yn  teaspoon  cinnamon,  Yl  CUP  chopped  nuts,  Yl 
cup  corn  syrup,  Ya  teaspoon  soda,  I  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  Y^  teaspoon  allspice,  Y$  teaspoon 
cloves,   )/8   cup  citron. 

Bake  1  hour  and  1 0  minutes.  Keep  moist  and 
very  good. 

GINGERBREAD 

One  and  one-half  cups  barley  flour,  Yl  CUP 
molasses,  Yl  CUP  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
Y$  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  I  teaspoon 
cinnamon,    J/g    teaspoon   salt,    2   tablespoons   fat. 

Bake  about  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Good 
texture  and  flavor. 

HERMITS 

Two  cups  barley  flour,  2  tablespoons  fat,  I  egg, 
Yl  teaspoon  ginger,  Ya  CUP  chopped  raisins,  I  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  Yl  CUP  corn  syrup,  Ya  tea- 
spoon salt,  Yl  teaspoon  cinnamon,  Y  cuP  nuts, 
I    tablespoon  milk. 

Honey,  maple  sugar,  or  maple,  beet,  apple,  or 
sorghum  syrup,  which  can  be  made  at  home,  can 
be  used  in  the  same  way  as  corn  syrup  in  the 
above   recipes  to  save  sugar. 


SUGAR  SAVING 


Because  of  the  present  shortage  of  sugar  it  is 
necessary"  for  each  person  to  reduce  his  consump- 
tion of  sugar  to  ^4  pound  per  week.  There  are 
so  many  sweet  foods  that  may  be  used  in  place  of 
sugar  that  this  should  be  no  hardship. 

Cut  out  candy. 

Use  less  sugar  in  tea  and  coffee  and  substitute 
other   sweetening  wherever  possible. 

Try  cooking  breakfast  cereals  with  chopped  figs, 
dates  or  raisins.  You  will  not  need  to  add  any 
sugar  at  the  table. 

Use  molasses,  honey,  corn  or  other  syrups  for 
sweetening. 

*AppIe   syrup   and    concentrated    cider. 

Get  Government  pamphlet  giving  directions  for 
making  syrup  from  apples  and  other  fruits.  Try 
some   of  these. 

Use  fresh  fruits  for  desserts  in  place  of  rich  pas- 
tries and  sweet  puddings. 

Bake  apples  or  pears  with  a  little  water  for  sev- 
eral  hours  until  a   rich   syrup    forms. 

If  more  sweetening  is  desired   add   a  little   honey 


or  molasses. 

Stew  dried  prunes  in  the  water  in  which  they 
were  soaked  until  the  liquid  is  almost  all  boiled 
away.  If  more  juice  is  wanted  add  water  to  the 
syrup.  The  long,  slow  cooking  is  necessary  to 
develop   a    rich   flavor. 

Cut  down  the  use  of  cake. 

Do  not  use  frosting  unless  you  can  make  it  with- 
out sugar. 

Either  honey  or  maple  syrup  can  be  substituted 
for   sugar  in   a  boiled   frosting. 

When  cak'e  is  made  it  should  be  not  only  wheat- 
saving,  but  sugar-saving  and  fat-saving.  Try  mak- 
ing cakes  in  which  cornmeal,  corn  flour,  rye  flour, 
potato  flour,  rice  flour  or  cornstarch  is  substituted 
for  part  of  the  wheat  flour. 

Use  corn  syrup,  molasses,  honey  and  other 
syrups  for  part   or  all  of  the  sugar. 

A  good  working  rule  in  making  such  substitution 
is  to  use  1  cupful  of  syrup  as  equivalent  to  I  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  \/$  cup  of  liquid.  Corn  syrup 
does  not  sweeten  as  much  as  molasses  or  honey. 


CONSERVATION    PIE   CRUSTS 

CORNMEAL   CRUST 

Grease  a  pie  plate  well.  Cover  with  raw  corn- 
meal,  giving  the  plate  a  rotating  motion  so  that 
an  even  layer  of  the  meal  will  stick  to  the  plate 
about  1/16  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Fill  the  plate 
with  pumpkin  pie  mixture.      Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


^Department    of   Agriculture   Yearbook   Separate 
639. 


OATMEAL  CRUST 

Two  cupfuls  finely  ground  oatmeal,  1  cupful 
boiling  water,    1    teaspoonful    fat. 

Scald  the  oatmeal  with  the  water.  Add  fat  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Roll  very  thin  and  line  small  pie 
or  tart  tins  with  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Fill  with  apricot  marmalade  or  other  thick  mixture. 
If  desired,  spread  a  meringue  on  top  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 


SUPPLEMENT— SUBSTITUTE  RECIPES 


S-45 


CORNMEAL  COOKIES 

Half  a  cup  melted  fat,  Yl  CUP  molasses,  Yl 
cup  corn  syrup,  I  egg,  6  tablespoonfuls  sour 
milk,  Yl  teaspoon  soda,  2  cupfuls  cornmeal,  1 
cupful  wheat  flour. 

Combine  the  melted  fat,  molasses,  syrup,  beaten 
egg  and  milk.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  com- 
bine with  the  liquid.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  onto 
a  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  1  5 
minutes.  This  makes  55  to  60  cookies  about  2 
inches  in  diameter. 

OATMEAL  MACAROONS 

One  tablespoonful  fat,  %  cup  corn  syrup,  2 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  almond 
extract  if  desired,  I  Yl  cupfuls  ground  oatmeal, 
Ya  teaspoon  salt,   Yl  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Combine  the  melted  fat  and  the  sugar  and  syrup, 
add  the  beaten  egg  and  stir  in  the  other  ingredients. 
Drop  from  a  teaspoon  onto  greased  baking  sheets 
or  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  1 5 
minutes. 

This  makes  25  to  28  cookies  about  2  inches  in 
diameter. 


CONSERVATION    SWEETS 

CORNMEAL   GINGERBREAD 

One    cupful    cornmeal,     1    cupful    barley   flour,    I 


teaspoonful  soda,  %  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls ginger,  1  egg,*  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  Yl 
teaspoon  cloves,  1  cupful  sour  milk,  1  cupful 
molasses,    2   tablespoonfuls  shortening. 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Combine  the 
milk,  molasses,  melted  shortening  and  beaten  egg. 
Add  the  liquid  ingredients  to  the  dry.  Stir  well. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Variation 

Two  cupfuls  of  buckwheat  flour  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  cornmeal  and  flour  in  the  above  re- 
cipe. This  will  have  the  characteristic  flavor  of 
buckwheat.  If  it  is  too  strong  use  only  1  cupful 
of  buckwheat  and  1  j/g  cupfuls  of  white  flour.  Two 
and  a  half  cupfuls  of  rye  flour  may  also  be  substi- 
tuted. 


'Omitted  if  desired. 


MEAT  SAVING 


Meat  saving  is  to  be  accomplished  in  various 
ways: 

1  .    By  doing  without  pork  and  beef. 

2 .  By  using  meat  less  frequently. 

3.  By  serving  smaller  portions. 

4.  By   using    meat   extenders,    such   as   a    dish    of 
rice,   tomatoes  and  a  little  meat. 

5.  By  using  substitutes,  such  as  cheese,  eggs, 
fish,   game,  poultry,  dried  beans  and  peas. 

MEAT  EXTENDERS 
TAMALE  PIE   (Serves  6) 

Two  cupfuls  cornmeal,  2  Yl  teaspoonfuls  salt, 
6  cupfuls  boiling  water,  1  onion,  1  tablespoonful 
fat,  1  pound  Hamburger  steak,  2  cupfuls  toma- 
toes, Yl  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper  or  1  small 
chopped  sweet  pepper,    I    teaspoonful  salt. 

Make  a  mush  by  stirring  the  cornmeal  and  I  Yl 
teaspoonfuls  salt  into  boiling  water.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  or  over  water  for  45  minutes.  Brown 
th»  onion  in  the  fat,  add  the  Hamburger  steak  and 
stir  until  the  red  color  disappears.  Add  the  to- 
mato, pepper  and  salt.  Grease  a  baking  dish,  put 
in  a  layer  of  cornmeal  mush,  add  the  seasoned 
meat,   and   cover  with  mush.      Bake   30   minutes. 


BEEF  STEW 

One  pound  beef,  4  potatoes  cut  in  quarters,  Y* 
peck  green  peas  or  1  can,  1  cupful  carrots  cut  up 
small,    1    teaspoonful  salt. 

Cut  meat  in  small  pieces  and  brown  in  the  fat 
from  the  meat.  Simmer  in  2  quarts  of  water  for 
1  hour.  Add  the  peas  and  carrots  and  cook  for 
half  an  hour,  then  add  the  potatoes.  If  canned 
peas  are  used,  add  them  1 0  minutes  before  serv- 
ing.     Serve   when   potatoes   are   done. 

Variations 

1.  The  Meat — This  may  be  any  kind  and  more 
or  less  than  a  pound  may  be  used.  Use  the  cheap 
cuts,  the  flank,  rump,  neck  or  brisket.  The  long, 
slow  cooking  makes  them  tender.  Game  and  poul- 
try are  good. 

2.  Potatoes  and  barley  may  be  used  or  barley 
alone,    or    rice,    hominy    or   macaroni. 

3.  Vegetables — Carrots,  turnips,  onions,  peas, 
beans,  cabbage,  tomatoes  are  good,  canned  or 
fresh.      Use  one  or  more  of  these,  as  you  wish. 

4.  Parsley,  celery  tops,  onion  tops,  seasoning 
herbs,  or  chopped  sweet  peppers  add  to  the  flavor. 

5.  Many  left-overs  may  be  used not  only  meat 

and  vegetables,   but  rice  and  hominy. 


S-46 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


SUBSTITUTES 


FISH   CHOWDER 

A  3-pound  fish,  4  tablespoonfuls  drippings,  1 
medium-sized  onion  chopped  fine,  I  quart  sliced 
potatoes,   3   cups  hot  milk. 

Skin  and  bone  the  fish,  and  cut  into  inch  cubes. 
Cover  the  bone  and  trimmings  with  cold  water  and 
let  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Cook  the  onion  in 
the   fat  for   5    minutes,   then  pour  into   a   stew  pan. 

Parboil  the  sliced  potatoes  for  5  minutes,  then 
drain  and  add  layers  of  fish  and  potatoes  to  the 
fat  and  onion  in  the  stew  pan.  Season  each  layer 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  bones  have 
been  cooking  over  all,  and  cook  about  20  minutes 
until  fish  and  potatoes  are  tender.  Then  add  the 
scalded  milk.  If  desired  thicker,  sprinkle  a  little 
cornmeal  between  each  layer  of  fish  and  potatoes. 

BAKED  SALT  FISH 

Two  cupfuls  salt  fish  (flaked),  2  cupfuls  cold 
mashed  potatoes,  1  pint  milk,  2  eggs,  2  to  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  drippings. 

Soak  the  flaked  fish  in  cold  water  over  night  or 
freshen  the  fish  by  boiling  up  several  times  in  fresh 
water  (usually  three  times  is  sufficient).  Then 
simmer  until  tender.  Drain  off  the  water.  Mix 
the  potatoes  with  the  milk,  eggs,  fat  and  season- 
ing. Add  the  fish,  turn  into  a  greased  baking  dish 
and  bake  half  an  hour. 

BROILED  SALT  MACKEREL 

Freshen  the  fish  by  soaking  1  0  or  12  hours  with 
the  skin  side  up.  Change  the  water  several  times. 
Simmer  until  tender  (15  or  20  minutes)  in  water 
to  which  1  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  a  bay  leaf,  1 
slice  of  onion  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  have  been 
added.  Drain,  rub  the  fish  with  a  little  salt  and 
margarine  or  other  fat.  Grease  the  hot  broiler  and 
lay  the  fish  on  it.  Brown  on  both  sides  quickly. 
Garnish  with   slices   of  lemon   and   parsley. 

JELLIED  FISH 

One  and  a  half  cupfuls  cold  flaked  fish,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  chopped  capers,  1  tablespoonful  granu- 
lated gelatin,  I  cupful  boiling  water,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls lemon  juice,  J/£  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls cold  water. 

Mix  the  fish  and  capers.  Arrange  in  a  mold. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 
Add  the  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the  gelatine 
dissolves,  then  add  the  lemon  juice  and  salt.  Pour 
this  jelly  carefully  over  the  fish  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  to  harden.  Cut  into  portions  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  salad  dressing.  If  desired,  celery  or 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  may  be  added  to  the 
fish. 

RABBIT  IN  CASSEROLE 

One  rabbit,  J/^  cup  drippings  or  other  fat, 
1    cupful  hot  water,    2   cupfuls  meat  stock  or  thick- 


1     tablespoonful    lemon    juice,    bit    of 


ened    gravy, 
bay  leaf. 

Dress  the  rabbit  and  separate  into  pieces  at  the 
joints.  Season  with  paprika  and  salt.  Cook  in  the 
fat  until  a  golden  brown.  Transfer  the  meat  to  a 
casserole  with  1  cupful  of  hot  water  and  cover. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  half  an  hour,  then 
add  the  stock  or  gravy,  lemon  juice  and  bay  leaf. 
Continue  cooking  in  the  oven  about  3  hours. 

BAKED  HOMINY  AND  CHEESE 

One  tablespoonful  of  oleomargarine  or  drippings, 
I  tablespoonful  cornstarch  or  J/2  teaspoon  paprika, 
J/2  to  I  cupful  cheese,  grated  or  cut  fine,  2  table- 
spoonfuls flour,  1  cupful  milk,  2  cupfuls  of 
cooked  hominy,  J/4  cupful  breadcrumbs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt. 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  fat,  cornstarch,  salt  and 
milk.  Add  the  cheese  and  paprika  to  the  sauce, 
arrange  the  hominy  in  baking  dish  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  it.  Cover  with  crumbs  and  bake  20 
minutes   in  a    moderate   oven. 

The  hominy  and  cheese  may  be  arranged  in  lay- 
ers and  the  white  sauce  poured  over  it  if  preferred. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  AND  NUT  ,LOAF 

One  cupful  cottage  cheese,  1  cupful  nut  meats 
(use  those  locally  grown),  I  cupful  stale  wheatless 
bread  crumbs,  juice  of  J/2  lemon,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y4  teaspoon  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped 
onion,  I  tablespoonful  oleomargarine,  meat  drip- 
pings  or  vegetable  oils. 

Mix  the  cheese,  ground  nuts,  crumbs,  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  the  onion  in  the  fat 
and  a  little  water  until  tender.  Add  to  the  first 
mixture  the  onion  and  sufficient  water  or  -meat 
stock  to  moisten.  Mix  well,  pour  into  a  baking 
dish   and   brown   in   the  oven. 

Variations 

Two  cupfuls  of  cooked  oatmeal  may  be  substi- 
tuted  for   the    cheese   and    the   bread    crumbs. 

One  pound  of  beans,  cooked  and  put  through  a 
sieve   may   be   substituted   for   the   nuts. 

American  cheese,  grated  or  cut  fine,  may  be 
used  in  place  of  cottage  cheese. 

The  amount  of  liquid  added  will  vary  in  each 
case.  The  seasoning  may  be  varied  to  suit  the 
case. 

SAUCES 

Especial  attention  must  be  given  to  seasoning 
of  dishes  which  have  as  their  foundation  beans, 
rice  or  other  foods  having  little  flavor  of  their 
own. 

Use  peppers,  onions,  garlic,  leek,  celery,  catsup, 
Worcestershire  sauce,  etc.,  for  increasing  flavor. 
Bean  and  nut  loaves  should  be  served  with  highly 
seasoned   sauces. 


SUPPLEMENT— SUBSTITUTE  RECIPES 


S-47 


ITALIAN  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Two  cupfuls  cooked  tomatoes,  Yl  CUP  finely 
cut  onion,  Yl  CUP  grated  or  cut  turnip,  Yl  CUP 
grated  or  cut  carrot,  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  I  cup 
cut  green  peppers,  4  tablespoonfuls  butter  substi- 
tute or  vegetable  drippings,  2  tablespoonfuls  rice 
flour. 

Cook  vegetables  (except  tomato)  in  the  fat  un- 
til tender.  Add  tomato  and  salt,  cook  5  minutes. 
Put  through  strainer,  return  to  fire,  add  flour 
mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  cold  water,  boil  5 
minutes. 

PIMENTO  SAUCE 

Force  canned  pimento  through  a  strainer.  Add 
Yl   cup  of  this  puree  to    1    cupful  of  white  sauce. 

BROWN   NUT   SAUCE 

Two  tablespoonfuls  drippings  or  vegetable  oil, 
2  tablespoonfuls  peanut  butter,  3  Yl  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  1  Yl  cupfuls  meat  or  vegetable  stock  or  milk, 
Yl    teaspoon  salt,    few   grains  of  pepper. 

Brown  the  fat,  add  peanut  butter,  and  when  well 
mixed  add  flour  and  continue  browning.  Pour  in 
the  stock  gradually,  stirring  constantly.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  add  salt  and  pepper. 


FAT  SAVING 

We  use  twice  as  much  fat  as  some  of  our  Allies. 

The  amount  used  here  should  be  not  more  than 
54  pound  per  person  per  week  and  6  ounces  for 
children   under   ten. 

Butter  may  be  used  freely  on  the  table. 

Peanut  butter,  jellies,  or  a  nut  and  fig  paste  are 
excellent   substitutes. 

Use  little  pastry. 

When  you  do  make  pies,  use  one  crust  instead 
of  two. 

Try  the  New  England  deep  apple  pie,  with  only 
a   top    crust. 

Vegetable  fats  may  be  used  in  making  the 
pastry. 

If  vegetable  oils  are  used,  the  quantity  of  fat 
may  be  reduced  by  one-third;  that  is,  2^4  table- 
spoonfuls of  oil  to  1  cupful  of  flour  is  sufficient. 
The  oil  itself  helps  to  moisten  the  flour,  so  that 
very  little  water  is  necessary.  The  dough  should 
be  made  as  dry  as  possible  to  make  a  tender  pas- 
try. 

Do    not   fry  in   deep    fat. 

Bake   croquettes  in  the   oven. 

Make   meat-loaf  instead  of  meat  croquettes. 

Either  do  not  use  recipes  calling  for  a  large 
quantity  of  fat   or  try   reducing   the   amount. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


S-48  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


VARIATIONS  IN  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 
WHEATLESS  RECIPES 

UNITED   STATES   FOOD   ADMINISTRATION 

May  9,   1918. 


EQUIVALENT   WEIGHTS   AND 

MEASURES 

Wheat 

Flour 

Substitutes 

Ground 

Corn 
Flour 

Oat  Flour 

Rice  Flour 

Unit 

Bread 

Pastry 

Barley 

Rolled 

and  Fine 

Buckwheat 

Oat 

Cornmeal 

and  Coarse 

Cornmeal 

4   ozs. 

3  ]/2    ozs. 

2  2/3    ozs. 

3  J/2    ozs. 

4    ozs. 

4  J/2    ozs- 

4  2/3  ozs. 

1    Cup 

113    gr. 

100    gr. 

76    gr. 

98    gr. 

109   gr. 

125    gr. 

^33^7" 

Ozs. 

Cup 

Cup 

Cup 

Cup 

Cup 

Cup 

Cup 

1 

!4 

J4  (+) 

% 

14  (+) 

% 

!4  (— ) 

J4  (— ) 

2 

Kz 

Vi  (+) 

!4 

Vi  (+) 

Vi 

K2  (— ) 

3/8   (  +  ) 

3 

?4 

7/8   (— ) 

1/8 

7/8  (— ) 

v* 

%  (— ) 

5/8 

9 

% 

1 

1   1/3 

1 

Vs 

%  (— ) 

% 

4 

I 

VA 

ij/2 

1Kb 

1 

1  (— ) 

%(  +  ) 

5 

1J4 

13/8   (  +  ) 

l7/8 

1%  (+) 

VA 

1J/8 

1  !/8  (— ) 

6 

l|/2 

1  5/8   (  +  ) 

2 14 

1  5/8    (  +  ) 

\y2 

13/8    (  +  ) 

l3/8 

8 

2 

2 '4 

3 

2!4 

2 

Wt 

114  (+) 

10 

2J4 

2% 

3% 

2% 

2Vz 

2J4  (+) 

2J4  (— ) 

(4-)     Indicates    generous    measure. 

PRINCIPLE    OF    SUBSTITUTING 


The  recipes  which  have  been  worked  out  on 
the  principle  that  a  given  weight  of  wheat  flour 
may  be  replaced  by  an  equal  weight  of  substitute 
have  been  repeated  a  number  of  times  by  the 
laboratory  workers  in  the  experimental  laboratory 
kitchen,  and  have  also  been  tried  out  by  a  number 

of     different     people housekeepers,      children     in 

cooking  schools  and   others — who  have   found   that 

BASIS  FOR  PRESENT  STANDARD 

The  measures  have  been  calculated  on  the  basis 
of  repeated  weighings  in  the  experimental  kitchen 
in  co-operation  with  the  Office  of  Home  Economics 
of  the  Department  of  Agriculture,  using  the  flours 
available  on  the  local  market.  It  has  been  found 
that  samples  bought  at  different  times  have  often 
been  of  different  weights.  The  rolled  oats  has  been 
a  good  example.      The   first  purchased  was   ground 

and   weighed    136    grams    per    cup the    last   which 

we   ground   ourselves  weighed   98   grams  per   cup. 

In  different  parts  of  the  country,  also,  the 
weights  of  these  flours  seem  to  differ.  Requests 
have  been  sent  to  a  number  of  co-operating  Home 


( — )    Indicates    a    scant    measure. 
WEIGHT    FOR   WEIGHT 

they  worked  very  satisfactorily.  There  is  no  ques- 
tion that  the  weight  for  weight  substitution  pro- 
duces good  results;  this  does  not  mean  that  other 
methods  of  substitution  may  not  be  satisfactory. 
Some  of  the  flours  in  equal  weights  may  absorb 
more  water  than  others;  but  whatever  other  pro- 
portions work,   these   certainly  have  been  proved. 


OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

Economics  Departments  asking  for  a  report  of  the 
weight  of  a  standard  cup  of  the  materials  used  in 
their  laboratories.  When  this  data  has  been  re- 
ceived and  studied  some  different  figures  may  be 
adopted  to   represent  a   general   average. 

For  the  present,  we  have  adopted  the  modica- 
tion  of  weights  and  measures  given  in  the  accom- 
panying table,  which  will  be  used  hereafter  in  order 
to  avoid  any  confusion  or  inconsistency.  For  the 
benefit  of  those  working  with  them,  plus  and  minus 
signs  are  used  to  show  that  the  measures  are  not 
exact;  8/9  of  a  cup,  for  instance,  must  be  trans- 
lated  either  into    1    cup   or   7/8   of  a   cup,   and  the 


S-49 


S-50 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


sign  shows  which  has  been  done.  There  is,  how- 
ever, so  much  variation  in  the  size  of  the  measur- 
ing cup,  and  also  so  much  difference  in  the  ways 
of  measuring,  that  there  is  no  greater  error  in  this 
translation  from  one  fraction  to  another  than  is 
bound  to  occur  in  any  use  of  measures. 


It  must  be  remembered  that  measures  are  not 
accurate,  and  that  more  uniform  results  may  be 
secured  by  weighing. 

These  recipes  have  been  submitted  as  a  report 
of  progress  and  to  fill  the  immediate  need  rather 
than  as  final  statements. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  COMPARED 


Yet  another  method  of  studying  food  values  is 
to  be  found  in  a  consideration  of  weight,  cost  and 
measure.  This  has  been  used  by  wise  housekeep- 
ers for  some  time,  but  some  women  have  been  so 
impressed  with  the  importance  of  buying  by  weight 
that  they  have  almost  lost  sight  of  the  expression 
of  this  weight  in  terms  of  measure.  Such  a  com- 
mon commodity  as  potatoes,  of  course,  is  often 
purchased  by  weight,  but  it  is  very  important 
to  realize  that  there  are  1  5  pounds  of  potatoes 
in  a  peck,  and  that  this  same  1 5  pounds  also 
represents  about  50  medium-sized  potatoes.  In 
other  words,  if  a  housekeeper  buys  a  pound  of 
potatoes,  she  will  get  three  medium-sized  potatoes 
and  a  little  one  thrown  in  for  full  weight.  A  pound 
of  prunes  may  be  ordered  without  any  special 
interest  by  the  woman  buyer,  and  she  may  get 
either  large  or  small  prunes,  depending  upon  the 
grocer's  wishes,  while  a  wise  buyer  would  stipu- 
late the  size  wanted,  because  she  would  know  that 
in  a  pound  of  small  prunes  she  would  get  about  40 
prunes,  while  if  they  were  large  there  would  be 
about   28. 


The  following  table  shows  the  relation  of  'weight 
and  measure,  and  also  brings  about  the  difference 
in  the  weight  of  contents  of  the  cans  of  different 
sizes.  In  the  case  of  canned  pork  and  beans,  the 
No.  1  can,  cost  1 5  cents,  weighs  1  1  ounces,  while 
the  No.  2  can,  cost  20  cents,  weighs  21  ounces. 
In  the  latter  can,  the  cost  of  the  additional  1 0 
ounces  is  5  cents.  If  the  housekeeper  uses  con- 
densed milk  in  quantity,  it  is  better  for  her  to  buy 
the  1 6-ounce  can,  as  the  cost  per  ounce  is  much 
less  than  if  she  purchases  the  6-ounce  can.  Of 
course,  it  may  be  better  economy  for  the  woman 
to  buy  the  No.  2  can  of  vegetables,  but  this  is  true 
only  when  the  No.  2  can  gives  her  exactly  enough 
for  one  meal  for  her  family.  If  there  is  a  serving 
left  over,  it  is  evidently  wiser  for  her  to  buy  the 
No.  3-  can,  because  then  she  has  enough  for  two 
meals,  and,  with  different  methods  of  preparation, 
will  run  no  risk  of  monotony. 

It  seems  clear,  then,  that  several  elements  enter 
into  the  wise  buying  of  food.  One  who  enlists  in 
that  service  ought  to  have  a  clear  conception  of 
the  relation  of  these  units  of  weights,  cost  and 
measures. 


Material 

Apricots 
Bananas 
Beans,   Navy 
Beans,   canned 

String  No.   2 

Lima   No.    2 
Bread 

Graham 

Rye,   Ward's 

White,  Ward's 

Whole  wheat,  Ward's 
Butter 
Milk,   condensed 

Molasses   No.    2Yz 
Pineapple 

No.    I    flat 

No.    2    tall 
Prunes 

Small 

Large 
Tapioca 

Instant 

Minute 

Pearl 


Weight 


1  lb. 

1  ft. 

1  ft. 

1  ft.  2 

oz. 

1  ft.  4 

oz. 

12  oz. 

1    ft. 

1  ft. 2 

oz. 

1  ft.  4 

oz. 

1    ft. 

6  oz. 

16   oz. 

2  ft  s.  6  oz. 

9   oz. 

1  ft.  3 

oz. 

1    ft. 

1    ft. 

10    oz. 

10   oz. 

1  ft. 

Measure 
75    pieces 
3    large 
2    1 /3    cups 

1    2/3    cups 
I    2/3   cups 

1 4  i/2-in.  slices 
21  |/2-in.  slices 
1  6  J/2'in.    slices 

15  J/2-in.  slices 
48  squares 

2/3   cup 

1  7/9  cups 

2  3/4  cups 

5    slices 
1  0    slices 

40    prunes 
28-30    prunes 

I    3/7    cups 

1  3/7    cups 

2  1/7   cups 


drained 


fuls. 


1  ounce  of  sugar  measures  2  level  tablespoonfuls. 
1/3    ounce   of  butter  measures   2   level  teaspoon- 

2  ounces  of  flour  measures    Yl    cupful. 


SUPPLEMENT— WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES  S-5  1 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


S-52  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


HOME   AND   CLUB   STUDY 
ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 

The  U.  S.  Food  Administration  published,  during  1917,  a  booklet,  entitled: 

TEN  LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 
Arranged  for  School  and  Club  Study 

The  booklet  is  now  out  of  print;  but  a  special  edition  was  run  off  for 
Libraries,  and  a  copy  is  on  file  in  every  public  library,  at  the  present  time,  available 
for  reference  use. 

The  Food  Administration  has  since  published  a  new  booklet  (June,  1918), 
entitled : 

NINE  LESSONS  ON  "FOOD  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE" 
Arranged  for  Home  Study  and  for  School  and  Club  Use 

This  is  more  applicable  to  present  conditions,  as  well  as  more  suitable  to 
the  needs  of  the  individual  housewife  and  the  purposes  of  the  small  Local  Club, 
while  it  contains  much  of  the  more  academic  matter  that  appeared  in  the  Ten 
Lessons. 

The  Publishers  of  The  Home  Keeping  Book  urge  all  home-keepers  to  send 
to  the  Federal  Food  Administrators  of  their  Home  States  (see  Names  and  Ad- 
dresses on  page  9  of  this  Supplement)  for  copies  of  the  Nine  Lessons  on  Food 
in  War  and  Peace. 

We  urge  all  Local  Clubs  to  secure  copies  of  the  Nine  Lessons;  also  to  ap- 
point a  Committee  to  go  to  the  nearest  local  Public  Library,  read  the  Ten  Lessons 
(out  of  print  as  above)  and  copy  such  matter  as  will  be  of  interest  to  the  Club,  as 
does  not  appear  covered  in  a  better  manner  for  the  Club's  use  in  the  Nine  Lessons. 

We  will  give  herewith  only  the  Titles  of  the  Nine  Lessons,  together  with 
Miss  Tarbell's  most  excellent  Introduction,  as  the  booklet  itself  is  too  compre- 
hensive for  us  to  attempt  to  include  it  here  in  full,  and  too  valuable  and  important 
to  be  injured  by  rehashing  in  excerpt  form.  Get  the  book  itself,  for  your  own 
use. 

We  will  give  some  of  the  more  important  paragraphs,  and  more  detail  as  to 
contents,  on  the  Ten  Lessons,  which  are  out  of  print. 

"FOOD  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE" 

This  is  a  comprehensive  study  of  the  entire  question  of  food  economics, 
planned  and  arranged  for  Home  Study  Clubs,  and  of  almost  inestimable  value  to 
the  home-keeper,  both  in  her  own  home  and  for  use  in  Home  Study  Clubs  and 
Societies. 

It  is  a  booklet  of  considerable  size,  a  complete  text-book  in  itself. 

Write  to  the  Federal  Food  Administrator  for  your  State,  and  obtain  a  copy. 

The  following  are  the  Titles  to  Food  in  War  and  Peace : 

LESSON   I. Food  and   the  War.      Herbert  Hoo-  LESSON    VI. — Milk    and    Its    Products.      Dr.    La- 

ver.  fayette    Mendel. 

LESSON  II. Food  for  a  Day.      Graham  Lusk.  LESSON    VII. How    to    Use    Fruits    and    Vege- 

LESSON  III.— Wheat.      Why  to  Save  It— How  to  tables-      Caroline  L.  Hunt. 

Use   It.      Dr.   Alonzo  Taylor.  .  rccnu  ,„„        ,,  .        .  1  d     j  j  n        1 

,„....    ...        _  .  ,  ,,  ,    c  LESSON  VIII. — Using  Local  Products  and  Devel- 

LLbaON    IV. Conservation    or  rats   and    Sugar.  .  ..         .       _       .   „         ,  ,-,,       ,        ,    D         , 

r-v       r-     1/     «„    ^   „  oping  a  Near-by  rood  supply.      Charles  J.  Brand. 

Dr.    E.    V.    McCollum. 

LESSON  V.— Meat  and  Meat  Substitutes  in  War  LESSON    IX.— The    Children's   Food.       Dr.    Ruth 

Time.      Dr.    C.    F.    Langworthy.  Wheeler. 

S-53 


S-54  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 

"FOOD  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE" 

The  United  States  Food  Administration,  in  co-operation  with  the  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  and  the  Woman's  Committee  of  the  Council  of  National  De- 
fense, has  issued  the  above  pamphlet  containing  a  series  of  lessons  for  the  special 
use  of  clubs  and  neighborhood  groups,  showing  what  the  nation  is  asked  to  do 
about  the  food  supply,  and  why.  The  lessons  have  been  prepared  in  response  to 
many  requests  for  a  simple  and  brief  statement  of  the  kind  and  quantity  of  food 
needed  for  health,  and  of  the  ways  in  which  changes  may  safely  be  made  so  that 
the  requests  of  the  Food  Administration  for  saving,  substituting,  and  using  the 
various  foods  may  be  intelligently,  rather  than  arbitrarily,  obeyed. 

Each  lesson  has  been  prepared  by  a  specialist  whose  authority  is  unques- 
tioned. U.  S.  Food  Administrator  Hoover  has  explained  the  present  situation  in 
his  discussion  of  "Food  and  the  War";  Dr.  Graham  Lusk,  of  the  Advisory  Com- 
mittee on  Food  Utilization  of  the  Food  Administration,  has  told  us  what  food  we 
should  use  in  a  day,  and  has  explained  "calories"  and  other  puzzling  terms;  Dr. 
Alonzo  E.  Taylor,  who  is  associated  with  the  Food  Administration  and  with  the 
War  Trade  Board,  and  who  has  spent  much  time  abroad  since  the  war  began,  has 
told  us  about  wheat,  why  we  should  save  it,  and  how  to  use  it.  Other  lessons 
have  been  written  by  Dr.  C.  F.  Langworthy  and  Miss  Caroline  Hunt  of  the  Office 
of  Home  Economics,  and  Dr.  Charles  J.  Brand  of  the  U.  S.  Office  of  Markets,  De- 
partment of  Agriculture;  by  Dr.  E.  V.  McCollum,  of  Johns  Hopkins;  Dr.  Lafay- 
ette B.  Mendel,  of  Yale;  and  Dr.  Ruth  Wheeler,- of  the  University  of  Illinois.  Miss 
Ida  M.  Tarbell  has  written  the  introduction  to  the  lessons. 

A  number  of  practical  suggestions  and  some  recipes  have  been  added  by 
the  editors  to  each  of  these  papers,  as  well  as  a  few  references,  and  a  list  of  lantern 
slides. 

The  lessons  may  be  obtained  in  each  State  from  the  Federal  Food  Admin- 
istrator. A  limited  free  edition  has  been  issued.  Arrangements  may  also  be 
made  with  the  Illustration  Division,  U.  S.  Food  Administration,  for  the  use  of  the 
lantern  slides. 

INTRODUCTION 

By   IDA   M.    TARBELL 

Woman's    Committee,    Council    of   National   Defense 

No  finer  piece  of  practical  work  was  ever  put  up  to  the  American  woman 
than  that  assigned  her  in  the  National  Campaign  for  Food  Control.  There  are  no 
two  questions  about  the  necessity  for  scientific  handling  of  our  food  supply.  All 
that  is  needed  to  prove  the  point  is  to  apply  the  multiplication  table.  We  must  so 
use  our  food  that  we  keep  all  of  our  people  abundantly  nourished.  At  the  same 
time,  we  must  release  for  our  Allies  sufficient  quantities  of  those  foods  which  are 
necessary  for  their  health  and  which  can  only  be  obtained  through  us.  The  mul- 
tiplication table  shows  that  it  can  be  done.  But  to  do  it  means  not  only  resolution 
— it  means  knowledge.  Nothing  is  more  needed  at  the  moment  than  a  clear  un- 
derstanding by  all  women  of  just  how  their  part  in  this  tremendous  task  is  to  be 
carried  out. 

It  is  not  easy  for  the  busy  woman  who  is  not  in  direct  touch  with  the 
sources  of  scientific  information  on  the  subject  of  food  to  learn  just  what  she  ought 
to  do  and  how  to  do  it.  She  knows  that  she  is  not  doing  her  part  unless  in  place 
of  those  things  that  she  gives  up  for  the  sake  of  our  Allies,  she  provides  her  fam- 
ily with  others  which  are  equally  nutritious.  But  where  can  she  learn  how  to  do 
this? 


SUPPLEMENT— FOOD  CONSERVATION  S-55 

This  set  of  lessons  has  been  prepared  for  her.  Their  intelligent  use  will 
teach  her  how  to  readjust  the  family  meals  to  meet  the  national  needs. 

The  lessons  have  been  planned  and  edited,  at  the  request  of  the  Woman's 
Committee  of  the  Council  of  National  Defense,  by  experts  from  the  U.  S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  and  from  the  U.  S.  Food  Administration.  A  glance  at  the 
list  of  names  attached  to  these  different  lessons  will  show  that  the  editors  have 
been  able  to  rally  to  their  help  some  of  the  best  known  specialists  in  the  country. 
It  is  only  another  of  the  many  proofs  that  we  are  having  that  there  is  no  talent  so 
superior  that  it  does  not  gladly  turn  all  that  it  has  to  the  use  of  the  country. 

It  is  believed  that  these  lessons,  with  their  lists  of  references  and  of  care- 
fully selected  lantern  slides,  by  which  they  may  be  illustrated,  will  be  of  enormous 
educational  value.  What  is  taught  here  is  not  only  good  for  war  times;  it  is  equally 
a  contribution  to  peace.  To  learn  to  do  every  common  thing  in  life  in  the  most 
scientific  manner  is  one  of  our  high  duties  at  the  present  moment,  but  learning  to 
meet  our  great  need  now  will  do  much  to  help  us  as  a  nation  in  the  future  to  do 
these  common  things  in  a  finer  and  more  comprehending  way. 

Write    to    the    Federal    Food    Administrator 
of  your  State  for  "Food  in  War  and  Peace" 

TEN  LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 

(Outlines    and    Extracts    from    Bulletins) 
UNITED   STATES   FOOD    ADMINISTRATION 

This   booklet   is   out    of  print;    copies   are    on    file  and   available   in  public   libraries. 

The  purpose  of  the  course  is  threefold.  The  These  lessons  are  given  in  outline  form,  and  are 
first  aim  is  to  acquaint  students  in  the  country  with  meant  to  be  suggestive  only.  In  many  instances 
the  world  situation.  Food  shortage,  which  is  so  they  will  have  to  be  changed,  rearranged,  and  re- 
serious  as  to  necessitate  the  creation  of  machinery  grouped   to   meet   local   conditions. 

for    food    administration,    is    especially    emphasized.  t-,       ti  -  j        j  i     .  r  ti  ..  «.  J 

.       .  .  1  he  third  and  last  aspect  or  the  course,  as  stated 

Tentative  plans  for  the  organization  of  this  depart-  -      T  v     j      l         -tL   a  u-   u   ..l-     

c  fa  r  in  Lesson  A,   deals  -with  the  use  to  which  this   ma- 

ment  are  given.      Lesson   I  covers  this  ground.  ■   i-  ■  u  r:      l  u       »   1         *U' 

to  °  tenal    is    to    be    put.       Lach    person    who    takes    this 

Second,    the    course    is    designed    to    tell    students  course    on    food    conservation    should    be    requested 

definite  and  immediate  things  to  do,   and  wherever  to    acquaint    the    family    with    the    urgency    of    the 

possible  show   how   to   do    them.      This  work   is   al-  situation,    and    to    ask    them    to    carry    out   the    sug- 

ready    well    under    way    in    many    States,     so    that  gestions  made  by  the  food  conservation  department 

Lessons   II  to   IX,   inclusive,    reinforce   and    reiterate  through    whatever    local    arrangements    have    been 

what    in    many    cases    the    local    people    are    already  made.      As   these   will   vary    greatly,    this    office   can 

doing.  only  suggest  possible  types  of  local  organization. 

TEN  LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 
LESSON    I.  Reason — Reduce     congestion     of    transporta- 

Part    1  tion.       (Insert  data   on  difficulties  in   trans- 

FOOD  THE  DECIDING  FACTOR  portation.) 

II.    Use  Perishables  to  Conserve  Staples: 
Part    2  Garden  Products — Can  safely  double  amount 

PLAN   OF   UNITED    STATES    FOOD  „  ordinarily  used. 

ADMINISTRATION  °rfmd     Products-Use     large     amounts     of 

fruits,   fresh  and  preserved. 
Dairy  Products — Use  more  whole  milk,   skim 
LESSON   II.  milkj    Duttermilk,    cottage   cheese.      Milk   is 

u    ine  a  crieap  source  of  superior  protein,   there- 

FOOD   CONSERVATION  MEASURES  fore  it  is  best  for  growth  and  repair. 

I.    Use   Local  Foodstuffs.  Poultry    Products — Use    eggs    as    far    as    pos- 

(Note Study      your      local      conditions      and  sible.       Preserve    eggs    and    can    cockerels 

select  groups  for  illustrative  material.)  and  fowls  for  future  use. 


S-56 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


III.  Eliminate  Waste: 

(  1  )    Define  waste  as  failure  to  use  food  ma- 
terials to  the  best  advantage. 
(2)     (a)    Transportation.       Hence    use    local 
supply. 

(b)  Improper  handling  in  home. 

(c)  Poor   meal  planning. 

(d)  Preparation. 

(e)  Cooking. 

(f)  Careless     service i.     e.,     individual 

plate  waste. 

IV.  Wheat  Conservation: 

(1)    Need    to    reduce    by    25    per    cent,    our 
present  consumption  of  wheat. 

(a)  Method Stretch  the  wheat   supply 

from  10  per  cent,  to  25  per  cent, 
in  bread  making  through  use  of 
corn  meal  and  other  cereals  with 
wheat   flour. 

(b)  Method Use     other     cereal     prod- 

ucts   in    place   of   wheat    products. 
(  1  )    Breakfast  foods. 

(2)  Quick   breads   and    cakes. 

(3)  Soups  and    made  dishes. 

(4)  Desserts. 

(c)  Method — Increase     use      of     veget- 

ables  and   fruits  to    reduce   use   of 
bread. 
V.    Food  Preservation:   Conserve  perishable   fruits 
and   vegetables   to    prevent  ■waste,    lessen    use 
of  staples,  and  increase  variety  in  diet. 
VI.    An  Adequate  Diet  and  Its  Importance. 
VII.    Working  Program.  ^ 

LESSONS  HI  AND  IV. 
WHEAT    CONSERVATION  *  * 
Outline 
THE  WHEAT  SUPPLY  OF  THE  WORLD 

United  States  Must  Conserve  Wheat 

Eliminating    Waste    of    Bread 

Increase  the  Proportion  of  Vegetables  in  the  Diet 

Save   One-fourth  Our  Wheat 

Use  Local  Cereal  Products 

DEMONSTRATIONS    OF    EMERGENCY    BREADS 

I.  Save  the  Wheat — Use  Corn  and   Oats 

II.  Use   Corn   and   Oats  in   Bread  Making 
Demonstration    of    Cornmeal     and     Oatmeal     Yeast 

Breads 

III.      Use  Barley,  Rye,  Boiled   Rice,  and  Boiled  Po- 
tato in  Bread  Making 
Cottonseed   Flour — Demonstration    of  Barley,    Rye, 
Rice,  or  Potato  Flour  Yeast  Breads 


*May  be  either  a  talk  and  one  demonstration  or 
two  demonstrations. 


LESSON  V. 

CONSERVATION  OF  MEAT 

Outline 

State  world  supply.       (See  tables  attached.) 

State  United  States  supply.  (Either  tables  or 
per  cent,  increase  of  meat  vs.  per  cent,  increase  of 
population.) 

General  habit  of  meat  consumption  in  United 
States.       (See    61    Cong.    Report    (British   Com.). 

Need  of  tissue-building  foods  in  diet.  (Give  list 
of  foods  high  in  tissue-building  power.) 

Discuss  meat  substitutes  as  adequate  combina- 
tions: Fish,  eggs,  milk,  and  milk  products  as 
cheese,  peanuts,  or  soy  beans,  cereals  plus  beans 
or  milk,  wheat  plus  gelatin  dishes. 

Safe  standard  to  follow:  Give  subsistence  diet; 
give  workingman's  diet. 

Working   Program — Recommended  Procedure 

1.  Use   of  larger   local   supply   of  animal   foods: 

(a)  Poultry  and  eggs. 

(b)  Game    in   season. 

(c)  Fish,   including  little   used  varieties. 

(d)  Skim    milk. 

(e)  Milk   and    cottage    cheese. 

2.  Vegetable    foods: 

(a)  Legumes     (peas,    beans,     peanuts,    lentils, 
cow  peas,   and   soy  beans). 

(b)  Cereals oats,    rye,    barley. 

(c)  Nuts local  supply. 

3.  Use   left-over   meats   as   flavors: 

(a)  In  soups. 

(b)  With  cereals    (corn). 

(c)  With  legumes. 

(d)  With    green    or    starchy   vegetables. 

LESSON  VI. 
Outline 
SUGAR 
Introduction — Relative    importance    of    fats    and 

sugars. 

General  per  capita  consumption  in  the  United 
States. 

Experience    of   Europe    (English    rules no    cake 

to  contain  over  1  5  per  cent,  sugar)  :  (a)  reduction 
in  use;  (b)  substitution  in  use  of  dried  fruits  with 
foods. 

Importance  of  sugars  in  diet:  (a)  Flavor;  (b) 
readiness  of  assimilation;   (c)    tolerance. 

Kinds  and  food  value  and  use:  (a)  Adult;  (b) 
youth;    (c)    infant. 

Safe  standard  to  follow:  Three  ounces  per  day 
per  person. 


SUPPLEMENT— FOOD  CONSERVATION 


S-5  7 


Working   Program 

1.  Method  of  eliminating  waste.  (Use  less 
sugar   on  breakfast   cereals   and  in   drinks.) 

2.  Use  desserts  which  do  not  require  sugar,  as 
fresh  fruit.  Select  breads,  cakes,  desserts,  etc., 
which  call  for  less  sugar  than  usual.  Omit  frost- 
ing. Use  less  sugar  in  form  of  candies  and  in  soft 
drinks. 

3.  Use  syrups  in  developing  flavors.  Use  syrups 
in  candy  making.  Use  syrups  in  cake  making. 
(Illustrate  with  products  made  from  syrups  rather 
than    granulated    sugars.) 

4.  Use  fruits    (fresh  and  dried.) 

FATS 

Approximate  fat  consumption  by  nations:  Give 
limitation  on  local  supply.  (This  must  be  a  State 
situation.) 

General  United  States  habit  in  fat  consumption: 
Ninety-six  grams  per  individual  per  day.  (This  in- 
cludes all  fat  waste.) 

Kinds   of  fats Food  value  and  uses:    (a)    adult; 

(b)  growing  youth;  (c)  growing  child;  (d)  in- 
fant. 

Safe  standard  to  follow. 

Working   Program — Recommended   Procedure 

I.  Use  of  larger  variety  of  fats. 

(a)  Illustrate  with  samples  of  all  types  of  fats 
which  may  be  used  as  food;  (b)  Illustrate  with 
food  products  made  through  use  of  different  sorts 
of  fat,  unrendered  (suet  or  chopped  pork),  solid 
(as  lard),  liquid  (as  cottonseed  or  other  vegetable 
oil). 

II.  Methods  of  eliminating  waste:  (a)  Discuss 
methods  of  fat  saving.  (1)  Clarifying  fats;  (2) 
reducing  use  of  cream  by  using  top  milk;  (3) 
serving  moderate  portions  of  butter  with  second 
helpings  when  wanted,  and  so  reduce  plate  waste; 
(4)  train  children  to  eat  fats  in  meats,  so  it  will 
not  be  left  on  plates;  (5)  give  preference  to  re- 
cipes and  methods  of  cookery  calling  for  small 
quantities  of  fat. 

Reference:  United  States  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture, Bulletin  No.  469,  Economical  Use  of  Fat  in 
the  Home. 

LIST  OF  FOODS  RICH  IN  FATS 
100   Per   Cent.   Fat 

Commercial  shortening  or   cooking  fats. 

Cottonseed   oil. 

Peanut   oil. 

Olive   oil. 

Corn   o^l. 

Sesame  oil. 

80  to   100  Per  Cent.  Fat 

Lard,   92   to    100  per  cent. 

Fat  salt  pork,    86  per   cent. 

Butter,   85   per  cent. 

Oleomargarine,    83   per  cent. 

Suet,    81    per  cent. 

Drippings,  goose  oil,  chicken  fat,  per  cent,  de- 
pends on  methods  of  clarifying. 


40  to  70  Per  Cent.  Fat 

Nuts   (meats),    70  to  54  per  cent. 
Bacon,    64   to    59   per   cent. 
Cocoanut,   57  per  cent. 
Chocolate,  48  per  cent. 
Whipping  cream,    40   per  cent. 

20  to  40  Per  Cent.  Fat 
American  cheese,   36  per  cent. 
Cream  cheese,    33    per  cent. 
Egg  yolk,   33  per  cent. 
Cocoa,   28  per  cent. 
Olives,   20   per  cent. 

LESSONS  VII.  AND  VIII. 

PRESERVING  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 

Outline 

I.  Necessity    for    preserving    foods. 

II.  Consideration  of  various  means  of  preserva- 
tion. 

III.  Canning   of   fruits   and  vegetables. 

IV.  Drying  of  fruits   and   vegetables. 

V.  Preservation  of  fruits  and  vegetables  by  fer- 
menting,   salting    and    vinegar    pickling. 

LESSON  IX 
FUNDAMENTALS    OF   AN   ADEQUATE   DIET 

LESSON  X. 
GENERAL 

I.  The  program  of  the  National  Food  Administra- 
tion is  centralized  Nationally  for  making  plans,  but 
decentralized  into  State  organizations  for  carrying 
out  the  plans. 

II.  State   organization. 

III.  The  plans  of  the  co-operative  extension  sys- 
tem of  the  United  States  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture, and  the  State  agricultural  college,  for  work- 
ing with  the  Food  Administration  on  food  con- 
servation. 

IV.  Local  action  with  local  organization,  under 
general  control  of  the  organized  forces  within  the 
State,  wherever  feasible,  is  desired  in  every  com- 
munity, so  that  every  housekeeper  in  America  shall 
co-operate. 

V.  Some  practical  measures  to  be  taken  in  the 
local  community. 

VI.  Sources  of  information  for  use  of  local  or- 
ganizations. 


The  publications  of  the  departments  of  the  Gen- 
eral Government  which  will  be  of  especial  help  in 
food    conservation   work    are   listed   hereafter. 


PUBLICATIONS    OF    VITAL  INTEREST 

THE  FOOD  CONSERVATION    PROGRAM 

The  education  of  1  00,000,000  people  in  new  habits  of  eating  is  one  of  the 
great  problems  resulting  from  the  war. 

With  the  shortage  of  food  abroad,  with  the  partial  failure  of  transportation, 
the  shortage  of  labor,  and  the  resulting  world  conditions,  each  one  of  us  has  a  new 
responsibility.  We  must  conserve  and  protect  the  food  supply  now  in  existence  or 
soon  to  be  harvested,  so  that  it  will  supply  the  population  of  this  country  and  of 
our  European  allies. 

We  can  do  this  if  we  save  and  if  we  do  not  waste.  It  will  require  our  care- 
ful thought  three  times  a  day.  Not  only  must  we  eat  carefully  the  products  of  the 
day,  but  we  must  store  carefully  the  perishable  vegetables  and  fruits  that  are 
abundant. 

The  home  should  be  the  center  for  the  production  and  storing  of  canned 
fruits  and  vegetables,  jellies  and  preserves.  It  should  have  its  bags  and  boxes  of 
dried  fruits,  vegetables  and  cereals.  By  the  use  of  sugar  in  preserving  fruits  and 
fruit  juices  we  can  save  materially  on  butter. 

We  must  begin  a  systematic  campaign  against  gophers,  rats,  mice,  and 
destructive  insects,  as  they  take  an  immediate  toll  out  of  our  growing  crops  and 
our  stored  foods. 

There  are  a  large  number  of  available  bulletins  on  food  and  its  preservation. 
The  state  schools  of  Agriculture  have,  many  of  them,  series  of  excellent  publica- 
tions and  are  in  position  to  give  the  best  of  advice. 

The  Department  of  Agriculture  in  Washington  has  issued  a  list  of  bulletins 
which  can  be  obtained  by  addressing  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  Washington, 
D.  C.  A  list  of  the  most  desirable  is  appended  below.  Write  for  those  which  will 
be  of  the  most  use  to  you. 

REFERENCE  LIST  OF  BULLETINS 


HOW  TO  SELECT  FOODS 

What  the  Body  Needs.      Bulletin  808. 

1.  Cereals.       Bulletin    817. 

2.  Protein.      Bulletin    824;    in    press. 

3.  Fruits  and  Vegetables;  in  preparation. 

4.  Fats  and  Sugars.      In  preparation. 

5.  Condiments    and    Foods.       In    preparation. 

6.  Food    Selection    and    Household    Budget.       In 
preparation. 

Bread  and  Bread-Making  in  the  Home.      Bulletin 
807. 

Cornmeal  as  a   Food   and  Ways  to   Use   It.      Bul- 
letin   505;  in  press  revised. 

Care    of    Food    in    the    Home.       Bulletin    3  75. 
MEAT  AND  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES 

Food  Value  and  Uses   of  Poultry.      Bulletin    167; 
price   5   cents. 

Economical   Use   of   Meat   in   the   Home;   Bulletin 
391. 

Mutton  and   Its  Value   in   the   Diet;   Bulletin    526. 

Cheese    and     Its    Economical    Use    in     the     Diet; 
Bulletin  487. 

Care   of  Milk  and   Its  Use  in   the  Home;  Bulletin 
413. 


Beans,  Peas  and  Other  Legumes  as  Food; 
Bulletin    121. 

FATS 

Fats  and  Their  Economical  Use  in  the  Home; 
Bulletin    469;   price    5    cents. 

DIET 

Food  for  the  Young  Child;  Bulletin    717. 
Principles    of    Nutrition    and    Nutritive    Value    of 
Foods;  Bulletin    14^;  price  5   cents. 
Use  of  Fish  as  Food;  Bulletin  85. 

PRESERVATION: 

Canned  Fruits,  Preserves  and  Jellies,  Bulletin 
203. 

Home  Canning  by  the  One-Period  Cold-Pack 
Method;   Bulletin    839. 

Home  Canning  of  Fruits  and  Vegetables;  Bul- 
letin   153. 

Canning  of  Soups  and  Meats.  Form  MR — 26. 
Office  of  Extension  Work,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Limited   Edition. 

Dried  Fruits  and  Vegetables;  Bulletin   841. 


S-58 


SUPPLEMENT—PUBLICATIONS  OF  INTEREST 


S-59 


DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

SPECIAL    BULLETINS 
1.    Farmers'  Bulletins  of  the  United  States   Department   of   Agriculture,    Washington,   D.    C. 


Bulletins  in  this  list  will  be  sent  free,  so  long  as 
the  supply  lasts,  on  application  to  any  Senator, 
Representative,  or  Delegate  in  Congress,  or  to  the 
Secretary  of  Agriculture,   Washington,   D.   C. 


34.    Meats:   Composition  and   Cooking. 

121  .  Beans,   Peas,   etc.,   as  Food. 

139.  Emmer:  Grain   for  Semiarid  Regions. 

142.  Principles    of    Nutrition    and    Nutritive    Value 

of  Food. 

203  .  Canned  Fruits,  Preserves,  and  Jellies. 

232.  Okra:  Its  Culture  and  Uses. 

256.  Preparation   of  Vegetables   for   the  Table. 

270.  Conveniences   for   the    Farm   Home. 

293.  Use  of  Fruit  as   Food. 

295.  Potatoes   and    Other   Root    Crops   as    Food. 

298.  Food    Value    of   Corn    and    Corn   Products. 

375.  Care  of  Food   in  the   Home. 

391  .  Economical  Use  of  Meat  in   the  Home. 

413.  Care  of  Milk  and   Its  Use  in  the   Home. 

110.  Use    Peanut   Flour   to    Save   Wheat. 

111.  Use  Barley Save  Wheat. 


No.   26. 


113.    Use    Soy-bean    Flour    to    Save    Wheat,    Meat 

and    Fat. 
414.     Corn    Cultivation. 

487.    Cheese:  Economical  Uses  in  the  Diet. 
526.    Mutton  and  Its  Value  in  the  Diet. 
535.    Sugar  and    Its  Value   as   Food. 
559.    Use    of    Corn,     Kafir,     and     Cowpeas    in    the 

Home. 
565.    Corn    Meal   as   a   Food:   Ways   of  Using   It. 
607.    The  Farm  Kitchen  as  a  Workshop. 
653  .    Honey  and  Its  Use  in  the  Home. 
712.    School   Lunches. 
717.    Food  for  Young  Children. 
771  .    Homemade  Fireless  Cookers  and  Their  Use. 

807.  Bread  and  Bread   Making. 

808.  How    to    Select    Foods.       I.    What    the    Body 
Needs. 

817.    How  to   Select   Food.      II.    Cereal   Foods. 

83  7.    How  to  Select  Food.      III.  Protein    (in  press). 

84  1  .    Drying  Fruits  and  Vegetables  in  the  Home. 
853.    Home     Canning     of    Fruits     and     Vegetables. 

(Southern  States.) 
955.    Use  of  Wheat  Flour  Substitutes  in  Baking. 

KITCHEN    CARD— Save   Wheat.      Use   Wheat   Substitutes. 
Send  to  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture 
U.   S.  Food  Leaflets  U.   S.   Farmers'   Bulletins 

Wheatless    Breads    and    Cakes.  No.    705  .    Suggestions   for   Parcels   Post   Marketing. 

No.       2.    Do   You   Known    Corn   Meal> 

No.       6.    Do  You  Know  Oatmeal?  No-    63°-    Marketing    Eggs   by    Parcel    Post. 

No.    18.    Rice.  No    636     Reta;I  PubHc  Markets 

No.     1 9 .    Hominy. 

No.    17.    Use  More  Fish.  •  No.  6.    Distribution   and   Utilization    of   the   Gar- 

No.     10.     Plenty  of  Potatoes.  den    SurpIus. 

No.     I  6 .    Fresh  Vegetables. 

Order  from   the   Department   of  Agriculture,   Washington,    D.    C. 
These  publications   give  brief  and   simple   discus-  Marketing  Plans   for  Next  Year"    in   Vol    74   of  the 


sions  of  the  subjects,  usually  including  practical 
suggestions.  Other  valuable  articlaes,  which  will 
be  found  in  most  well-equipped  libraries  are  the 
Report  of  the  Mayor's  Market  Commission  of  New 
York  City,  1913,  "Reducing  the  Cost  of  Food 
Distribution"     in    Vol.     50,     and     "Production     and 


Annals  of  the  American  Academy  of  Political  and 
Social  Science.  The  "Annals"  may  be  purchased 
for  $1.00  a  volume  from  the  American  Academy 
of  Political  and  Social  Science,  West  Philadelphia 
Station,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 
II.  Professional  Papers,  United  States  Department 
of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.   C. 


The  following  bulletins  may  be  procured  from 
the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  Government 
Printing  Office,  Washington,  D.  C,  by  remitting 
the  sum  mentioned  below.  Money  should  be  sent 
in  the  form  of  a  postal  order. 

200.  Office  of  Experiment  Stations  Bulletin, 
Course  in  Cereal  Foods  and  Their  Prepara- 
tion.     Price,    1 0    cents  a  copy. 

123.  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Extension  Course  in  Vege- 
table  Foods.      Price,    1 0    cents   a    copy. 

467.    U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.      The  Food  Value  and  Uses 


of  Poultry.      Price,    5    cents  per   copy. 

468.  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Potatoes,  Sweet  Potatoes, 
and  Other  Starchy  Roots  as  Food.  Price, 
5  cents  per  copy. 

469.  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Fats  and  Their  Econom- 
ical Use  in  the  Home.  Price,  5  cents  per 
copy. 

471.    U.   S.    Dept.    Agr.      Eggs  and  Their  Value   as 

Food.      Price,   5   cents  per  copy. 
503.    U.  S.   Dept.  Agr.      Turnips,   Beets,  and  Other 

Succulent    Roots,    and    Their    Use    as    Food. 

Price,    5    cents  per  copy. 


S-60 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


III.  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  Food 
and  Diet  Charts 

Set    of    1 5    charts,    $  I ,    which    may    be    procured    from    the    Superintendent    of    Documents,    Government 
Printing  Office,  Washington,  D.   C. 


IV.  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  Year- 
book Separates 


639.  Apple  Syrup  and  Concentrated  Cider.  May 
be  procured  from  the  Superintendent  of 
Documents,  Washington,  D.  C.  Price,  5 
cents  per  copy. 


646.  Selection  of  Household  Equipment.  May  be 
procured  from  the  Division  of  Publications, 
United  States  Department  of  Agriculture, 
Washington,   D.   C. 


V.  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  Circu- 
lars of  Extension  Work,  North  and  West.  Free 


Ext.   N.    R-17.    Corn   Club   Breakfast   Food. 

Ext.    N.  K-9 .    Water  Glass  Eggs. 

Ext.    N. Making  Jelly  with  Commercial  Pectin. 

Lists  of  commercial  firms  which  sell  the  follow- 
ing: Home  and  Club  Corporation  Canning  Out- 
fits   and    Devices;    Home    Evaporators    and    Driers; 


Mechanical  Seals  and  Sealers  for  Tin  and  Glass; 
Steamers;  Heating  Devices,  Lifting  Crates,  etc.; 
4-H  Brand  Labels;  Tin  Cans,  Glass  Jars,  Earthen- 
ware Jars  and  Rubber  Rings;  Delivery  Containers 
for  Eggs,  Vegetables,  Dried  Food  Products,  etc.; 
Parcel  Post  Egg  Containers;  Miscellaneous  Corru- 
gated Board  Containers;  Paper  Bottles. 


United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  Circulars 
of  Extension  Work,  South.     Free 


A-81.    Canning,    Preserving,   Pickling. 

A-82 .  Canning  Club  and  Home  Demonstration 
Work  (each  State  has  a  bulletin  on  organ- 
ization.) 

A-84.    Peppers. 

A-88 .  Drying  of  Vegetables  and  Fruits  for  Home 
Use. 

A-89 .    Jelly  Making. 

A-90 .    Preserving    Vegetables    by    Fermentation. 


746.    Winter   Gardens. 

775.    Use    of   Vegetables    from    Winter    Gardens. 

777.    Use  of  Poultry  Club   Products. 

785.    Bread  Making  with  Wheat  Flour  Substitutes. 

1101.    New    Fall  Vegetables. 

List  of  companies  from  which  canning  goods, 
labels,  emblems,  and  fruit  jars  can  be  purchased. 
(Southern  States.) 


VI.    United    States    Children's   Bureau,    Department 
of  Labor,  Washington,  D.   C. 


I.    Bulletins   in    "Care   of   Children   Series,' 
on   request). 

1.  Prenatal   care. 

2.  Infant   care. 

3.  Child  care    (in  preparation). 


(sent  II.    Press    series Brief    Articles    for    Newspaper 

Publicity    (sent  on  application). 

1.  Care  of  Young  Children six  articles,  three 

of  them  on  the  feeding  of  children. 

2.  Children  in  War  Time. 


VII.    United   States   Bureau    of   Education,    Depart- 
ment of  the  Interior,  Washington,  D.  C. 


The  following  will  be   sent  on   request: 

Circular:  "Suggestions  for  the  Conduct  of  Edu- 
cational  Institutions  During   the  War." 

"Home  Economics  Letters."  These  were  pre- 
pared for  home  economics  teachers  especially,  but 
they   have   suggestions   also   for   others. 

No.  1 9 .  What  the  Home  Economics  Teacher 
Can  Do. 

No.    20.    Economy  in  Food  Courses.     - 


No.  2 1  .  High  School  Food  Economics  in  Prac- 
tice. 

No.  22 .  A  Brief  Course  in  Food  Economy  for 
Colleges  and  Normal  Schools. 

No.    23  .    School  Sewing  for   the  Red   Cross. 

No.  24.  A  Course  in  Food  Economics  for  the 
Housekeeper. 

No.  25.  Service  to  be  Rendered  by  College  and 
University  Home   Economics   Departments. 


SUPPLEMENT— PUBLICATIONS  OF  INTEREST 


S-61 


VIII.    United    States    Bureau    of    Fisheries,    Depart- 
ment of  Commerce,  Washington,  D.  C. 


The   following  will  be  sent  on   request: 
Economic  Circular  No.    10;  The  Tilefish. 
Economic  Circular   No.    I  1  ;   Canned  Salmon. 
Economic  Circular  No.    12;  Sea  Mussels. 


Economic    Circular    No.     1 3 ;    Commercial    Possi- 
bilities of  the  Goosefish. 

Economic  Circular   No.    18;   Oysters. 


IX.  United  States  Bureau  of  Standards,  Department 
of  Commerce,   Washington,  D.   C. 

Economic  Circular  No.  55;  Measurements  for  the  Household    (15   cents,   from  Superintendent  of  Doc- 
uments,   Government    Printing    Office,    Washington,  D.   C. ). 

Circular   No.    70;   Materials   for  the   Household    (25    cents). 
Circular   No.    75;  Safety  for  the  Household    (15    cents). 


SPECIAL  LIST  OF  BULLETINS 

Of    Particular    Interest    to    the    Home-Keeper    of 
Intelligence   and   Frugality 


Free  Bulletins 

Canning  Vegetables  in  the  Home;  Farmers'  Bul- 
letin 359. 

Canning  Peaches  on  the  Farm;  Farmers*  Bulletin 
426. 

Canning  Tomatoes  at  Home  and  in  Club  Work; 
Farmers'    Bulletin    521. 

Manufacture  and  Use  of  Unfermented  Grape  Juice; 
Farmers'   Bulletin   644. 

Meats:  Composition  and  Cooking;  Farmers'  Bul- 
letin 34. 

Use  of  Milk  as  Food;   Farmers'   Bulletin   363. 

Mutton  and  Its  Value  in  the  Diet;  Farmers'  Bul- 
letin  526. 

Use  of  Corn,  Kaffir  and  Cowpeas  in  the  Home; 
Farmers'   Bulletin   559. 

School  Lunches;   Farmers'    Bulletin    712. 

Home-Made  Fireless  Cookers  and  Their  Use;  Farm- 
•       ers'   Bulletin    771. 

For    Sale    by    the    Superintendent    of    Documents, 
Government  Printing  Office,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Bread  and  Bread  Making;  Farmers'  Bulletin  389; 
price,    5   cents. 

The  Chemical  Composition  of  American  Food  Ma- 
terials; Office  of  Experiment  Stations,  Bul- 
letin 28;  price,    10  cents. 


Iron  in  Food  and  Its  Functions  in  Nutrition;  Office 
of  Experiment  Stations,  Bulletin  185;  price, 
1  0   cents. 

Calcium,  Magnesium  and  Phosphorus  in  Food  and 
Nutrition;  Office  of  Experiment  Stations,  Bul- 
letin 227;  price,    10  cents. 

Composition  of  Food  Materials;  Office  of  Experi- 
ment Stations,  Bulletin  Food  and  Diet  Charts 
15;   price,    per   set,    $1.00. 

Eggs  and  Their  Value  as  Food;  Department  Bul- 
letin 471;  price,   5   cents. 

Potatoes,  Sweet  Potatoes  and  Other  Starchy  Roots 
as  Food;  Department  Bulletin  468;  price,  5 
cents. 

Other   Free   Bulletins — General 

Cereal   Breakfast    Foods;    Farmers'    Bulletin    249. 

Preparation  of  Vegetables  for  the  Table;  Farmers' 
Bulletin    256. 

Use  of  Fruit  as  Food;  Farmers'  Bulletin  293. 

Food  Value  of  Corn  and  Corn  Products;  Farmers' 
Bulletin  298. 

Use  of  Milk  as  Food;  Farmers'  Buletin  363. 

Sugar  and  Its  Value  as  Food;  Farmers'  Bulletin 
535. 

Honey  and  Its  Uses  in  the  Home;  Farmers'  Bul- 
letin   653. 


Write  to  Washington  for  such  of  the  above  Bulletins  as  will  be  of  use  to  you. 


HOME  ECONOMICS 

The  following  list  of  reliable  publications  is  reprint  of  a  list 
recommended  by  the 

IOWA  STATE  COLLEGE  OF  AGRICULTURE  AND  MECHANIC   ARTS 
Agricultural  Extension  Department — Home  Economics,  Ames,  Iowa 

R.  K.  Bliss,  Director 


ADVANCED  STUDY 

The  Fundamental  Basis  of  Nutrition — Graham 
Lusk.      Yale  University  Press,  New  Haven,   Conn. 

Changes  in  the  Food  Supply  and  Their  Relation 
to  Nutrition — Lafayette  B.  Mendel.  Yale  University 
Press,   New  Haven,    Conn. 

The     Principles     of     Human     Nutrition Jordan. 

The    Macmillan    Company,    New    York. 

Chemistry  of  Food  and  Nutrition — Sherman. 
The   Macmillian    Company,    New  York. 

Text     Book     of     Physiology Win.     H.     Howells. 

W.  B.  Sanders  Company,  Philadelphia. 

Elements  of  the  Science  of  Nutrition — Graham 
Lusk.  Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Cham- 
bers, Boston. 

Laboratory    Manual    of    Dietetics Mary    Swartz 

Rose.      The    Macmillan    Company,    New   York. 

Physiological  Chemistry  —  Olaf  Hammersten. 
John  Wiley   &   Sons,   New  York. 

Feeding  the   Family Mary  Swartz  Rose,    Ph.    D. 

The   MacMillan   Company,   New  York. 

HOME  MANAGEMENT 

The  Modern  Household — Talbot  &  Breckenridge. 
Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers,  Bos- 
ton. 

The  Healthful  Farmhouse Dodd.      Whitcomb   & 

Barrows,   Huntington   Chambers,   Boston. 

The    Art    of    Right    Living Ellen    H.     Richards. 

Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers,  Bos- 
ton. 

Sanitation  in  Daily  Life — Ellen  H.  Richards. 
Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers,  Bos- 
ton. 

Household  Chemistry Vulte.  Chemical  Pub- 
lishing Company,   Easton,   Pa. 

Cost  of  Living — Ellen  H.  Richards.  John  Wiley 
&   Sons,   New  York. 

Primer     of     Sanitation John      Ritchie.        World 

Book    Company,    Yonkers-on-Hudson,    New    York. 

Economical  Disposal  of  Town's  Refuse Good- 
rich.    John  Wiley  &  Sons,  New  York. 

House  Flies  and  How  They  Spread  Disease — 
Hewitt.      Cambridge   University   Press,    Boston. 

Insects  Injurious  to  Household — Glen  Herrick. 
The  Macmillan  Company,  New  York. 

Bacteria,  Yeasts  and  Molds — H.  W.  Conn.  Ginn 
and    Company,    New  York. 

Laundry  Work — Balderston  &  Limerick.  Boston 
Cooking  School  Magazine   Company,    Boston. 


Household  Bacteriology — Buchanan.  The  Mac- 
millan Company,  New  York. 

House  Sanitation — Marion  Talbot.  Whitcomb 
&   Barrows,   Huntington  Chambers,   Boston. 

Shelter  and  Clothing — Kinne  and  Cooley.  The 
Macmillan   Company,    New  York. 

Government   Bulletins,    Department   of   Agriculture, 
Washington,   D.    C. 

How  Insects  Affect  Health  in  Rural  Districts — 
Farmers'   Bulletin   No.    155. 

Some    Common    Disinfectants Farmers'    Bulletin 

No.  345. 

Farm Home  Grounds,  Farmers'  Institute  Lec- 
ture  No.    14. 

Harmfulness     of     Headache     Mixtures Farmers' 

Bulletin   No.    377. 

Cockroaches — Circular  51,  Bureau  of  Entom- 
ology. 

The  Carpet  Beetle — Circular  5,  Bureau  of 
Entomology. 

The  True  Clothes  Moths — Farmers'  Bulletin  No. 
659. 

The  Farm  Kitchen  as  a  Work  Shop — Farmers* 
Bulletin  No.   607. 

COOK   BOOKS 

A  New  Book  of  Cookery — Fannie  Merritt 
Farmer.      Little,  Brown  &  Company,   Boston. 

Cooking  for  Two — Janet  M.  Hill.  Whitcomb  & 
Barrows,   Huntington   Chambers,   Boston. 

The  Fireless  Cook  Book — Margaret  J.  Mitchell, 
Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers, 
Boston. 

Boston     Cooking     School      Cook     Book Fannie 

Merritt  Farmer.  Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Hunting- 
ton   Chambers,    Boston. 

Salads,  Sandwiches  and  Chafing  Dish  Dainties — 
Janet  M.  Hill.  Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington 
Chambers,  Boston. 

Science     in     the     Kitchen Ella     Eaton     Kellogg. 

Good  Health  Publishing  Company,  Battle  Creek, 
Michigan. 

Home  Science  Cook  Book — Barrows  and  Lincoln. 
Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers, 
Boston. 

HOME  NURSING 
Practical  Points  in  Nursing — Emily  A.  M.  Stoney. 
W.   B.  Sanders  Company,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Red    Cross    Text    Book — Major    Charles    Lynch. 


S-62 


SUPPLEMENT— PUBLICATIONS  OF  INTEREST 


S-63 


P.   Blakiston's  Sons  and   Co.,    Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Food  and  Cookery  for  the  Sick  and  Convalescent 
Fannie  M.  Farmer.  Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Hunt- 
ington  Chambers,   Boston. 

Mothers*  Guide Tweddell.  Dougherty  Publish- 
ing Company,  New  York. 

Practical  Dietetics  with  Reference  to  Diet  in  Dis- 
ease,   9th  Edition,   Alida  F.    Pattee Whitcomb   and 

Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers,  Boston. 

Diet  in  Health  and  Disease — Friedenwald  and 
Ruhrah.  W.  B.  Sanders  Company,  Philadelphia, 
Pa. 

Dietetics    for    Nurses Friedenwald    and    Ruhrah. 

W.  B.  Sanders  Company — Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Reference     Handbook     for    Nurses Amanda     K. 

Beck.      W.   B.    Sanders   Company,    Philadelphia,    Pa. 

Home  Nurses  Hand  Book — Charlotte  Aikens. 
W.   B.  Sanders  Company,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Lessons  in  Cooking  for  the  Sick  and  Convales- 
cent.      Government     Printing    Office,     Washington, 

D.  C. 

Harvard     Health    Talks Baker     and     Company, 

Publishers,   New  York. 

Care     and     Feeding     of     Children John     Lovett 

Morse.  - 

Chemicals    in    Foods:    Their     Use     and     Abuse 

Otto   Folin. 

The  care  of  the  Skin Charles  James  White. 

The    Care    of    the    Sick    Room Eldridge    Gerry 

Cutler. 

The  Care  of  the  Teeth Charles  Albert  Bracket. 

TEXTILES  AND  SEWING 

Textiles- — -Woolman  and  McGowan.  The  Mac- 
millan  Company,  New  York. 

Color      Harmony      in      Dress G.      A.      Audsley. 

McBride,  Nast  and  Company,  New  York. 

The  Dressmaker.  Butterick  Publishing  Com- 
pany,   New  York. 

Lace:  Its  Origin  and  History.  S.  L.  Goldenburg, 
Publishers,  Brenton,  New  York. 

Household  Sewing B.  Banner.  Longmans- 
Greene,    New  York. 

Household  Chemistry Vulte.  Chemical  Pub- 
lishing Company,  Easton,  Pa. 

Household  Textiles — Charlotte  M.  Gibbs.  Whit- 
comb   &    Barrows,    Huntington    Chambers,    Boston. 

CARE  OF  CHILDREN 

Disease   of   Nutrition   and    Infant   Feeding Morse 

and  Talbot.      The  Macmillan   Company,    New  York. 

The     Nervous     System     of     the     Child Warner. 

The  Macmillan  Company,  New  York. 

The  Diseases  of  Infancy  and  Childhood — L. 
Emmet  Holt.      Appleton  &  Co.,   Chicago. 

Care  and  Feeding  of  Children- — Dr.  L.  E.  Holt. 
McClurg   &    Co.,    Chicago. 

Theory  and  Practice  of  Infant  Feeding — Henry 
Dwight  Chapin.  Wm.  Wood  &  Company,  New 
York. 


Problems  of  Babyhood;  Building  a  Constitution; 
Forming  a  Character — Fitz.  Henry  Holt  &  Com- 
pany,  New  York. 

Children  in  Health  and  Disease — Forsyth.  P. 
Blakiston's  Sons   &   Co.,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

The  Development  of  the  Child — Oppenheim. 
The  Macmillan   Company,    New  York. 

Aspects  of  Child  Life  and  Education — G.  Stanley 
Hall.      Ginn    &   Co.,    Chicago. 

The  Century  of  the  Child — Eilen  Key.  G.  P. 
Putnam's  Sons,  New  York. 

Hygiene  of  the  Nursery Louis  Starr,   M.   D.      P. 

Blakiston's   Sons   and    Co,.    Philadelphia,    Pa. 

Infant    Feeding C.    J.    Grulee.       W.    B.    Sanders 

Co.,   Philadelphia,  Pa. 

The  Human  Plant — Luther  H.  Burbank.  Cen- 
tury Company,    New  York. 

Bulletins 

What  Children  Should  Eat.  Human  Welfare 
Publication  Co.,   Southwest  Harbor,  Maine. 

The    Feeding    of   Young    Children Mary    Swartz 

Rose.  Teachers'  College,  Columbia  University,  525 
West   120th  St.,  New  York. 

The  Daily  Meals  of  School  Children — Caroline 
Hunt.      Bureau  of  Education,   Washington,   D.   C. 

Pre-natal  Care Mrs.   Max  West. 

Care    of    Children Mrs.    Max    West.       Children's 

Bureau,  Series  No.   2,  Washington,   D.   C. 

Save  the  Babies.  American  Medical  Association, 
Dearborn  Street,  Chicago,  111. 

INSPIRATION 

Euhenics — Ellen  H.  Richards.  Whitsomb  &  Bar- 
rows,  Huntington  Chambers,   Boston. 

The  Home  Builder — Lyman  Abbot.  Houghton 
Co.,   Chicago. 

The  Efficient  Life — Luther  H.  Gulick.  Double- 
day,   Page  &  Co.,  Boston,   Mass. 

The  American  Woman  and  Her  Home Mrs.   N. 

D.  Millis.      Fleming  H.  Revell  Co.,   New  York. 

The  Spirit  of  Youth  in  the  City  Streets — Jane 
Addams.      The  Macmillan   Company,   New  York. 

The  Human  Plant — Luther  H.  Burbank.  Cen- 
tury Company,  New  York. 

Power     Through     Repose Annie     Payson     Call. 

Little,   Brown   &   Co.,  Boston,   Mass. 

What  Men  Live  By Richard  C.  Cabot.  Hough- 
ton-Mifflin Co.,  Boston,  Mass. 

HOME   DECORATION 

Furnishing    a    Modest    Home Fred    H.     Daniels. 

Whitcomb  6c  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers,  Bos- 
ton. 

Principles  of  Home  Decoration — Candace 
Wheeler.       Doubleday,    Page    &    Co.,    Boston,    Mass. 

How  to  Study  Pictures Charles  Caffin.  Cen- 
tury Company,   New  York. 

The  Meaning  of  Pictures — John  C.  VanDyke. 
Chas.  Scribners*  Sons,   New  York. 


S-64 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


A    Practical    Book    of   Period    Furniture Harold 

Sullivan.      J.  B.  Lippincott  &  Co.,  Philadelphia,   Pa. 

The  Honest  House.  Century  Company,  New 
York. 

The  House  in  Good  Taste.  Century  Company, 
New  York. 

A  Book  of  Woven  Coverlets Eliza  Calvert  Hall. 

Little,  Brown  &  Company,   Boston. 

Your  Home  and  Its  Decoration.  Sherwin- 
Williams  Company,  696  Canal  Road,  Cleveland, 
Ohio. 

Old   Masters   and   New Kenyon   Cox.      Duffields 

&   Company,   New  York. 

Book  of  House  Building  and  Decoration — Collier 
H.  Brown.  Doubleday,  Page  &  Co.,  New  York 
City. 

Studies    in    Pictures John    C.    VanDyke.       Chas. 

Scribners'    Sons,    New   York. 

Color   Notation — A.    H.    Munsell. 
Co.,  Boston. 

How    to    Enjoy    Pictures M.     S 

Prang  Educational  Co.,  Chicago. 

Homes    and    Their    Decoration — 
Whitcomb      &      Barrows 
Boston. 

Home     Furnishing- 
Lane  Co.,  New  York 


Geo.    H.    Ellis 

Emery.       The 

L.     H.     French. 
Huntington      Chambers, 

-George     L.     Hunter.        John 


PICTURE  CATALOGUES 

The  Rhine  Prints.  Atkinson,  Mentzer  &  Co., 
3  I  8  West  Washington  St.,   Chicago. 

Copley  Prints.  Cameron  &  Curtis,  Pierce  Build- 
ing, Boston,  Mass. 

University  Art  Shop,  1  606  Chicago  Ave.,  Evans- 
ton,    111. 

Maison  Ad-Braum  &  Co.,  13  West  46th  St., 
New  York. 

Geo.  P.  Brown  &  Co.,  38  Lovett  St.,  Beverly, 
Mass. 

The   Perry  Picture   Company,    Maiden,    Mass. 

Art  Exhibit  Catalogue,  Horace  Turner  Co.,  214 
Clarendon  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 

MAGAZINES 

American  Cookery.  Boston  Cooking  School 
Magazine    Co.,   Boston,    Mass. 

Good  Housekeeping  Magazine.  Good  House- 
keeping Magazine  Co.,  New  York  City. 

Fine    Arts    Journal 1.    J.     Campbell,     Publisher. 

Record  Herald  Building,  154  Washington  St., 
Chicago. 

House  Beautiful — 3  I  5  Fourth  Ave.,  New  York 
City. 

Housewives     Magazine 31      E.     27th     St.,     New 

York  City. 

Club  Federation  Magazine.  Federation  Bulletin 
Pub.   Co.,  Trinity  Court,   Boston,   Mass. 

Journal    of    Home    Economics 1211     Cathedral 

Ave.,   Baltimore,   Md. 

Keramic  Studio,   Syracuse,    N.   Y. 

Manuel  Arts  Press,   Peoria,    111. 

Manual  Training  Magazine. 


Vocational  Education.  Manual  Arts  Press, 
Peoria,  111. 

The  Art  World,  West  45th  St.,  New  York. 

Mentor Mentor  Association,   4th  Ave.  and    19th 

St.,  New  York  City. 

Craftsman     Furnishing     for     the     Home Gustav 

Stickley,   29  W.  34th  St.,  New  York. 

Domestic  Art  Review,  Teachers'  College,  Colum- 
bia  University,   New  York   City. 

Art  and  Industry  in  Education.  Teachers'  Col- 
lege,  Columbia  University,  New  York  City. 

The  Survey — 105  E.  22d  St.,  New  York  City. 

American  Motherhood.  Crist,  Scott  &  Parshall, 
Cooperstown,   N.  Y. 

Something  to   Do 120    Boylston   Street,    Boston. 

HIGH  SCHOOL  TEXTS 

Foods  and  Household  Management — -Kinne  and 
Cooley.      The  Macmillan   Company,   New  York. 

Shelter   and   Clothing Kinne   and    Cooley.      The 

Macmillan   Company,   New  York. 

Foods     and     Sanitation Forster     and     Weigley. 

Row,   Peterson  and  Company,   New  York. 

Text     Book     of     Cooking Carlotta      C.     Greer. 

Allyn  and  Bacon,  New  York. 

Domestic   Science,    Principles   and    Application 

Pearl  Bailey.  Webb  Publishing  Company,  St. 
Paul,   Minn. 

A    Study    of    Foods Wardall    and   White.       Ginn 

and  Company,  New  York. 

Domestic    Science Austin    Series.       Lyons    and 

Carnahan,    Chicago. 

(For  Teachers)  Equipment  for  Teaching  Domes- 
tic Science — Kinne.  Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Hunt- 
ington   Chambers,    Boston. 

Elements  of  Theory  and  Practice  of  Cookery, 
Revised  Edition Williams  &  Fisher The  Macmil- 
lan Co.,  New  York. 

SUGGESTED    LIBRARY    FOR    HOMEMAKERS' 

USE 

Food   and   Dietetics 

Foods    and    Household    Management Kinne   and 

Cooley.      The  Macmillan   Company,    New  York. 

Food  Products — Sherman.  The  Macmillan  Com- 
pany, New  York. 

Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book — Fannie 
Merritt  Farmer.  Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Hunting- 
ton Chambers,  Boston. 

Nutrition    and    Diet Emma    Conley.       American 

Book  Company,  Chicago. 

How    the   World    is    Fed Carpenter.      American 

Book  Company,   Chicago. 

Feeding  the  Family Marty  Swartz  Rose,   Ph.   D. 

The  Macmillan  Company,  New  York. 

Food     and     Health Kinne     and     Cooley.        The 

Macmillan   Company,   New  York. 

Home    Management 

Shelter  and    Clothing Kinne   and    Cooley.      The 

Macmillan  Company,   New  York. 

The    Art    of    Right    Living — Ellen    H.    Richards. 


SUPPLEMENT— PUBLICATIONS  OF  INTEREST 


S-65 


Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers, 
Boston. 

House  Sanitation — Marion  Talbot.  Whitcomb 
&  Barrows,   Huntington  Chambers,   Boston. 

Bacteria,  Yeasts  and  Molds H.  W.  Conn.      Ginn 

and    Company,    New  York. 

Home  and  the  Family Kinne  and  Cooley.      The 

Macmillan  Company,   New  York. 

Laundry  Work Balderston  and  Limerick.      Avil 

Printing  Company,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Table    Service Lucy    G.    Allen.       Little,    Brown 

and    Company,    Boston. 

Home   Nursing 

Home     Nurse's     Hand     Book Charlotte    Aikens. 

W.  B.  Sanders  Co.,   Philadelphia,   Pa. 

Harvard  Health  Talks,  Harvard  University  Press, 
Cambridge,  Mass.  Care  and  Feeding  of  Children 
— John   Lovett  Morse.      Chemicals  in   Foods,   Their 

Use    and    Abuse Otto    Folin.       The    Care    of    the 

Skin Charles  James  White.      The  Care  of  the  Sick 

Room Eldridge    Gerry    Cutler.      The    Care    of    the 

Teeth — Charles   Albert  Brackett. 

Mothers'  Guide Tweddell.  Dougherty  Publish- 
ing Company,   New  York. 

Reference     Handbook    for    Nurses Amanda    K. 

Beck.      W.  B.  Sanders  Company,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Textiles  and  Sewing 

Domestic  Art  in  Women's  Education Anna   M. 

Cooley.      The  Macmillan   Company,   New  York. 

Textiles Woolman  and  McGowan.  The  Mac- 
millan Company,   New  York. 


The  Dressmaker.  Butterick  Publishing  Com- 
pany,   New  York. 

The  Magic  of  Dress G.  M.   Gould.      Doubleday, 

Page  &  Co.,  Garden  City,  N.  Y. 

Clothing   and    Health Kinne   and    Cooley.      The 

Macmillan  Company,  New  York. 

Clothing    for    Women L.    Baldt.       J.    B.    Lippin- 

cott  &  Co.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Care   of  Children 

Care  and  Feeding  of  Children — Dr.  L.  E.  Holt. 
McClurg  and  Co.,   Chicago,   111. 

Infant    Feeding C.    J.    Grulee.       W.    B.    Sanders 

Co.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Diseases  of  Nutrition  and  Infant  Feeding Morse 

and  Talbot.      The  Macmillan  Company,   New  York. 

Pre-natal   Care,    Bulletin Mrs.    Max  West. 

Care   of   Children,    Bulletin — Mrs.   Max  West. 

Inspiration 

Euthenics — Ellen  H.  Richards.  Whitcomb  & 
Barrows,    Huntington    Chambers,    Boston,    Mass. 

What  Men  Live  By Richard  C.  Cabot.  Hough- 
ton-Mifflin Co.,   Boston,   Mass. 


He 


Decoration 


Furnishing    a    Modest    Home Fred    H.    Daniels, 

Whitcomb  &  Barrows,  Huntington  Chambers,  Bos- 
ton,  Mass. 

How  to  Study  Pictures — Charles  Chaffin,  Cen- 
tury Company,  New  York. 


S-66 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


THE  CORNELL  READING  COURSE  FOR  THE  HOME 

.  This  course  was  instituted  so  that  the  problems  especially  of  the  farm  home 
could  be  studied  in  the  same  scientific  way  as  are  those  of  the  farm.  The  lessons 
are  on  such  household  subjects  as  relate  to  food,  shelter  and  clothing,  and  are  ac- 
companied by  discussion  papers.  The  discussion  papers  contain  questions  that 
bring  out  the  point  of  view  of  the  practical  housekeeper.  As  a  result  there  has 
been  a  large  personal  correspondence  with  the  women  of  the  State  of  New  York, 
who  are  at  liberty  to  ask  questions  at  any  time  relating  to  their  home  problems. 

The  Reading  Course  is  free  to  residents  of  New  York  State.      A  lesson  is 
issued  each  month. 


the    Reading    Course 


The    Lessons    available 
are  as  follows: 
I  1       The    Laundry. 
1  3       Cornell   Study    Clubs. 
1  5       Principles  of  Jelly  Making. 
1  7      The    Preservation    of    Food    in    the    Home — 

Part    I. 
1 8      The    Preservation    of    Food    in    the    Home — 

Part  II. 
2 1       The   Preservation   of  Food   in   the   Home 

Part   III. 
23      Rules  for  Cleaning. 
25      Saving  Strength. 
27       Choice   and   Care   of  Utensils. 
29      Cost  of  Food. 

3  I       Household  Bacteriology. 
33      Vegetable  Gardening. 
35      The    Flower  Garden. 

37       Home    Economics    at    the    New    York    State 

College  of  Agriculture. 
39      The  Farmhouse. 

4  I       Rules  for  Planning  the  Family  Dietary. 
43      The   Box   Luncheon. 

45      Hints   on    Choosing   Textiles. 

47      A   Canning  Business   for  the    Farm   House. 

49      Household    Insects    and    Methods    of    Control. 

5  1       A  Story  of  Certain  Table   Furnishings. 
53      The  Christmas  Festival. 

55      Rice  and   Rice   Cookery. 

57      A  Syllabus  of  Lessons   for  Extension  Schools 

in   Home   Economics. 
59      Sewage    Disposal    for    Country   Homes. 

6  1       Attic  Dust  and  Treasures. 

63       The  Young  Woman   on  the  Farm. 

65       Farmhouse   Amusements   for  Girls   and   Boys. 

67      Canning    Clubs    in    New   York   State Part    I. 

Organization. 


69      Canning   Clubs  in   New  York  State Part   II. 

Principles  and   Methods   of  Canning. 

7  I       Canning  Clubs  in  New  York  State Part  III. 

Canning  Equipment. 

73       Making  Cake Part  I. 

75       Making  Cake Part  II. 

77      Songs  That  Live. 

79      Programs  for  Use  in  Study  Clubs. 

8  I       Potatoes  in  the  Dietary. 

83       Raising  Vegetables   for   Canning. 

85    %  The  Arrangement  of  Household  Furnishings. 

87      The  Decorative  Use  of  Flowers.    ■' 

89      Beans  and  Similar  Vegetables  as  Food. 

9  1       The  Life  of  Primitive  Woman. 
97       Keeping    Christmas. 

99      Programs    for    Study    Clubs    in    Home    Eco- 
nomics. 
1  0  1       Waste  of  Meat  in  the   Home — Part   I. 

109      Waste   of  Meat  in   the   Home Part   II. 

1 03       Suggestions    for    the    Health    of    Children. 

107      Ways   of   Using   Rhubarb. 

I  08      Planning   the  Home   Kitchen. 

1  I  0      Household  Accounts. 

1  1  1       Milk:  A   Cheap   Food. 

ADDITIONAL    CORNELL    BULLETINS 

Food   Preservation:   A   National  Challenge:   Bulletin 

113. 
The  Laundry;  Farm  Home  Series,  No.   3. 
Rules   for  Cleaning;  Farm   Home  Series,    No.    4. 
Choice    and    Care    of   Utensils;    Farm    Home   Series, 

No.   5. 
Arrangement  of  Household  Furniture;  Farm  Home 

Series,   No.   7. 
Decorative    Use    of    Flowers;    Farm    Home    Series, 

No.  8. 


For  such  of  the  above  Bulletins  as  will  be  of  use 
to  you  (Free  to  residents  of  New  York  State), 
write  to  the 

DEPARTMENT   OF   HOME    ECONOMICS 

COLLEGE  OF  AGRICULTURE 

ITHACA,  N.  Y. 


OTHER  SPECIAL  MATTER  ON 
CONSERVATION  AND  ECONOMY 

and 

FOOD  ADMINISTRATION  RECIPES 

From  Bulletins  of  U.  S.  Food  Administration 

U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture 

N.  Y.  State  College  of  Agriculture 

Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture 

etc.,  etc. 

Will  be  found  within  these  pages  on  the  following  subjects: 

Canning,  Preserving,  Drying  and  Storing  of  Foods: 

SEE  KITCHEN  and  COOKERY,  Part  2;  COOKING  and 
RECIPES,  Class  31. 

Making  Bread;  also 

Bread  in  Combinations  with  cornmeal  rice,  oatmeal, 
rye,  potatoes,  etc. 

Cereal  Foods  and  Use  of  Grain  Foods ;  also 

Corn  Meal  Recipes,  and 

Cereal  Recipes: 

SEE  Class   20,   BREADS,   in  KITCHEN  and  COOK- 
ERY, Part  2. 
SEE  also  FOOD  ADMINISTRATION  SUPPLEMENT 

Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables  as  Conservers  of  Staple  Foods;  also 
MILK,  A  Cheap  Food;  SUGAR,  A  Valuable  Food; 
FATS  and  Their  Use: 

SEE  Part  1 ,  in  KITCHEN  and  COOKERY 

Economical  Use  of  Meat  in  the  Home: 

SEE  MEATS,  in  Part  2,  in  KITCHEN  and  COOKERY 

The  Kitchen  Garden: 

All  About  the  Small  Garden  at  Home:  SEE  Section  XI. 


Other  Food  Administration  and  Government 
Recipes  under  various  Sections  in  the  recipes 
columns,  with  headings  indicating  their 
sources. 

S-67 


FUEL  ADMINISTRATION 

SUB-SUPPLEMENT 

At  the  last  moment — indeed,  while  this  work  is  on  the  press — 
we  have  been  requested  to  include  a  few  pages  on  the  urgent  need 
of  our  country  to  SAVE  FUEL— and  to  PROVIDE  NOW  for  the 
COMING  WINTER'S  NEEDS— for  each  and  all  of  us  to  do  our  part 
to  assist  the  Fuel  Administration  in  its  work — as  gravely  important 
in  many  ways  as  the  saving  of  food. 

No  such  fuel  shortage  as  occurred  last  winter  must  be  permitted 
again — with  the  tie-up  in  transportation,  the  congestion  of  manufac- 
tures, and  the  positive  human  suffering  that  were  endured.  It  is  the 
duty  of  every  man  and  every  woman  to  do  his  and  her  full  part  to 
prevent  ever  again  even  an  approach  to  such  conditions. 

It  is  our  pleasure  to  add  these  pages  in  the  form  of  this  SUB- 
SUPPLEMENT  for  the  U.  S.  FUEL  ADMINISTRATION. 

—THE  PUBLISHERS. 


The  following  pages 
are  current  up  to 
date,  June    30,    1918 


S-69 


EARLY  BUYING 

and 

CONSERVATION    OF    COAL 

UNITED   STATES  FUEL  ADMINISTRATION 
Speakers'    Series    No.    1 

About  2,000  years  ago  five  foolish  young  women  were  barred  from  a  wedding 
because  they  had  neglected  to  buy  any  oil  for  their  lamps.  There  were  five  others  who 
had  plenty  of  oil.      They  were  the  early  buyers.      (Matthew,  xxv. ) 

The  United  States  Fuel  Administration  is  urging  every  consumer  in  the  country  to 
follow  the  example  of  the  wise  virgins.  As  a  stimulus  to  cooperation  in  this  matter,  the 
price  of  anthracite  coal  has  been  reduced  30c.  a  ton  from  April   1   to  September   1. 

There  are  two  powerful  reasons  for  early  buying.  One  is  selfish.  The  other  is 
patriotic.     , 

You  will  not  only  save  money  by  buying  early,  but  you  will  guard  yourself  and 
your  family  from   a  repetition   of  the  hardships  of  last  winter. 


If  you  don't  want  heatless  days  next  winter, 
order  your  coal  now.  The  Fuel  Administration  is 
doing  its  utmost  to  insure  increased  production  of 
coal.  The  Director  General  of  Railroads  is  work- 
ing to  increase  the  transportation  facilities  of  the 
Nation.  Their  combined  efforts,  however,  may  be 
defeated  by  the  recurrence  of  such  weather  as 
prevailed  last  winter.  They  will  certainly  be  de- 
feated unless  a  large  majority  of  the  domestic  con- 
sumers  cooperate  with  them  by  buying  early. 

If  you  order  your  coal  immediately,  you  will 
be  certain  to  get  your  winter  supply.  If  you  do 
not  buy  now,  you  may  not  get  it,  and  you  cer- 
tainly will  not  get  any  sympathy  from  your  neigh- 
bors if  you  shiver. 

Foresight    now    means    anthracite    next    winter. 

There  is  something  much  more  important  than 
your  personal  comfort,  however,  involved  in  this 
campaign  for  early  buying. 

One  hundred  million  people  must  be  kept  warm 
next  "winter.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  factories, 
upon  which  the  United  States  and  the  entire  civi- 
lized world  depend  for  the  successful  prosecution 
of  the  war  against  Prussian  autocracy,  must  be 
supplied  with  coal. 

The  industrial  activity  of  the  Nation  has  resulted 
in  production  in  excess  of  our  transportation  facili- 
ties  in   other  words,   we    are   manufacturing   more 

goods   than   the    railroads   can    carry. 


There  is  only  one  way  to  meet  the  situation. 
Less  freight  is  moved  during  the  summer  months 
than  at  any  other  time.  The  coal  must  be  moved 
in  summer. 

Just  because  you  are  warm  now  don't  forget 
you  were  cold  last  winter.  If  you  neglect  to  buy 
your  winter  supply  now,  you  will  put  an  unnec- 
essary burden   on  the   railroads. 

Don't  say  to  yourself,  "It  can't  possibly  make 
any  difference  if  I  don't  buy  now.  Suppose  every 
one  of  the  100,000,000  people  of  the  country  took 
that  position.  What  chance  do  you  suppose  you 
would  have  of  getting  in  your  winter's  coal?  What 
right  have  you  to  assume  others  will  buy  early? 
Are  they  more  provident  than  you?  Are  they 
more  patriotic? 

You  CAN  borrow  money.  You  CAN'T  borrow 
coal.  Do  you  get  it?  If  money  is  not  as  plentiful 
as    it   might    be,    do   without   a    few    of   the  -  summer 

clothes   you   are   planning   to   buy cut   down   your 

summer      trip — borrow     money     if     necessary do 

something anything    that   will    enable   you    to    buy 

your  coal  now. 

There  will  be  an  increasing  demand  for  coal 
cars  as  the  season  advances.  The  United  States 
has  taken  over  nearly  700,000  tons  of  Dutch 
shipping.  Before  the  summer  is  over  many  ships 
will  be  launched  by  the  Shipping  Board  and  added 
to    the  merchant   marine   of  the  United  States. 


CONSERVATION    OF    COAL 

Conservation  is  another  name  for  economy,  and  economy  has  been  defined  face- 
tiously by  some  one  who  name  is  not  important  as  "doing  without  something  you  want 
in  order  to  buy  something  you  don't  want."  That  definition,  however,  does  not  fit  the 
kind  of  economy  you  are  urged  to  use  in  cooperating  with  the  United  States  Fuel  Admin- 
istration. 

You  wanted  coal  last  winter.  You  will  want  it  just  as  much  next  winter.  Just 
think  how  badly  you  will  want  it  if  you  haven't  got  it. 

S-70 


SUPPLEMENT— FUEL  ADMINISTRATION 


S-7I 


You  have  no  right  to  talk  about  inefficiency  in 
others  until  you  have  bought  your  winter's  supply 
of  coal  and  thus  helped  lift  the  burden  from  the 
railroads.  The  United  States  has  entered  the  war, 
and  every  factory  has  increased  its  demand  for 
coal.  This  year  there  will  be  more  factories. 
There  will  be  more  demand.  Every  war  industry 
will  be  working  at  top  speed  turning  out  'materials 
for  ships  and  airplanes,  and  in  making  munitions 
and   supplies   of  all   kinds. 

Two  things  must  be  done  to  avert  a  greater 
shortage    this    year    than    occurred    last   year. 

More  coal  must  be  taken  out  of  the  mines,  and 
less    coal   put   into   household    furnaces. 

Increase  in  production  will  be  difficult  under 
any  circumstances.  It  will  be  impossible  unless 
you  cooperate  by  ordering  your  coal  now.  This 
is  not   exaggeration.      It   is   a   cold   fact. 

In  London  and  Paris  they  hide  in  the  coal  cellars 
from  the  air  raids.  You  may  have  to  do  the  same 
thing   if   you   don't   fill   your   cellar   with   coal   now. 

Coal  cannot  be  stored  at  the  mines,  and  when 
there  are  no  orders  to  be  filled  the  mines  close 
down.  Your  order  will  help  to  keep  them  busy 
during  the  summer.  This  is  the  only  way  pro- 
duction can  be  increased. 

That  extra  shovelful  of  coal  you  save  will  send 
a  troopship  faster  through  the  danger  zone.  The 
Fuel  Administration  cannot  regulate  the  amount 
of  coal  you  shall  burn  each  day.  It  has  regulated, 
however,  the  amount  you  will  be  allowed  to  buy. 
Your  retail  dealers  know  how  much  you  have  been 
accustomed  to  use,  or  should  use,  and  they  have 
been  warned  by  the  Fuel  Administration  not  to 
sell  you  more  than  your  normal  supply. 

If  you  waste  that  supply  and  run  short  before 
the  winter  is  over,  it  will  be  your  own  fault.  It 
is  up  to  you  to  save  it  in  every  possible  way. 


When  you  try  to  borrow  coal  next  winter  you'll 
only  borrow  trouble.  Buy  yours  now  while  the 
price  is  reduced.  "Over  there,"  when  the  men  go 
into  the  trenches,  each  one  has  the  same  quan- 
tity of  water  in  his  canteen;  just  enough  to  last 
him  until  he  gets  back — if  he  does  get  back — to 
camp.  He  knows  exactly  how  many  swallows 
of  water  there  are  in  that  canteen,  and  that  if  he 
does  not  save  it  he  will  suffer,  because  it  is  a  point 
of  honor  with  him  not  to  take  water  from  another's 
canteen,    even   though   suffering  the  tortures  of   the 

damned.      Will   you — can   you fail    to    practice    as 

much  self-control  in  the  saving  of  coal  as  that  boy 
does  in  the  saving  of  water? 

Economical  use  of  your  coal,  however,  is  not  the 
only  way  you  can  help  the  Fuel  Administration 
in   its   campaign   for  conservation. 

That  campaign  will  include  every  possible  means 
for  saving  coal.  Many  of  the  methods  used  will 
cause  you  annoyance,  inconvenience,  sacrifice  of 
pleasure,  perhaps  even  loss  of  income.  There  is 
not  one  of  you  who  would  hesitate  to  make  heroic 
sacrifices.  Will  you  refuse,  then,  to  make  those 
small  sacrifices  without  which  America  cannot 
win  this  war?  Will  you  jeopardize  the  lives  of 
those  boys  who  are  fighting  for  you  by  refusing 
to  save  coal,  when  every  shovelful  you  save  means 
a  shovelful  for  the  factories  that  are  making  the 
munitions,   the   food,   and   the   clothing  for  them? 

A  cold  citizen  doesn't  make  a  warm  patriot.  Go 
to  the  telephone  and  order  your  winter's  coal  now. 
Does  your  blood  boil  when  you  read  and  hear  of 
Prussian  atrocities?  Do  you  see  red  when  you 
read  of  the  air  raids  on  defenseless  towns,  the 
bombardment  of  Paris,  the  murder  of  women  and 
children?       Do    you   want   to    get   into   the   fight? 

You  can  fight  Germany  by  heeding  the  Fuel 
Administration's  appeals. 


EARLY  PURCHASE  OF  COAL  URGENT 

Dr.  Harry  A.  Garfield,  United  States  Fuel  Administrator,  made  the  following  state- 
ment in  regard  to  the  importance  of  buying  coal  early: 

"Place  your  orders  at  once.  If  domestic  consumers  have  not  sufficient  storage 
space  for  the  coal  they  will  need,  they  should  enlarge  their  bins.  If  public  utilities  and 
industries  engaged  upon  Government  work  have  not  sufficient  storage  space  they  should 
at  once  provide  it." 


The  householder  in  Germany  can  get  only  one- 
third  of  the  coal  he  wants.  You  can  get  all  you 
need  if  you  buy  now.  "The  production  of  coal  in 
this  country  is  fundamentally  a  transportation 
problem.  There  are  enough  coal  cars  and  enough 
locomotives  to  transport  the  necessary  quantity  of 
coal  only  if  every  car  and  every  locomotive  is 
used    to    its    maximum    capacity    every    day    in    the 


year.  There  are  enough  operatives  in  the  mine 
to  get  the  coal  from  the  ground  if  those  operatives 
can  work  every  day  in  the  year  and  if  the  coal 
cars  and  locomotives  are  available  every  day.  If 
the  coal  cars  are  idle  for  a  "week  or  a  month  the 
result  is  a  loss  of  a  week's  or  a  month's  possible 
coal  production.  There  is  no  way  to  make  up 
this   loss.      The   country   needs   the    greatest   utiliza- 


S-72 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


tion  of  the  coal-carrying  facilities  every  week  and 
every  month.  It  has  no  surplus  cars  and  no  sur- 
plus locomotives  to  carry  more  coal  in  a  succeed- 
ing week  or  in  a  succeeding  month  to  make  up 
for  the  failure  to  use  the  existing  cars  and  loco- 
motives   in    a    preceding    month." 

The  coal  operators  cannot  store  coal  when  it 
comes  from  the  mine.  You  can.  Make  space  for 
the  coal  you  will  use  next  winter — then  fill  it. 
"There  is  plenty  of  coal  in  the  ground  to  meet 
every  need.  This  coal  can  be  taken  from  the 
ground  only  in  consequence  of  orders  placed  with 
the  operators.  If  those  orders  are  delayed,  the 
coal  remains  where  nature  has  put  it.  Coal 
operators  have  no  other  storage  space  for  their 
coal.  Unless  the  operators  have  orders  for  their 
coal  they  cannot  load  the  coal  cars,  nor  will  the 
coal  cars  be  placed  at  their  mines.  Without  orders 
for  coal  the  operators  cannot  ship  it,  for  they  can 
give   no   directions  where   it   should  be   taken." 

One  of  the  worst  forms  of  slacking  is  putting  off 
doing  your  duty.  Order  your  supply  of  coal  at  once. 
"Inconvenience    of    paying    for    coal    in    the    spring 


or  summer,  when  it  will  not  be  needed  until 
autumn  or  winter,  should  not  influence  any  con- 
sumer to  delay  placing  his  order  and  securing  his 
supply.  It  is  far  wiser  to  borrow  money  in  the 
spring  to  pay  for  one's  coal  than  to  wait  until 
autumn  or  winter,  when,  if  the  coal  has  not  been 
mined    and    shipped,    money    cannot   procure    it." 

"The  Fuel  Administration,  through  the  State 
fuel  administrators  and  local  committees,  is  pre- 
pared in  every  reasonable  way  to  aid  public  utili- 
ties, essential  industries,  retail  dealers,  and  domes- 
tic consumers  in  placing  their  orders  and  in  secur- 
ing assurance  of  a  sufficient  supply  of  fuel.  All 
these  Governmental  agencies,  however,  are  power- 
less if  the  consumers  themselves  fail  to  act.  Again, 
therefore,  the  Fuel  Administration  urges  every 
consumer  to  place  his  orders  immediately.  This 
should  ordinarily  be  done  through  the  medium  of 
supply  upon  which  the  consumer  has  relied  in  the 
past.  If  this  course  is  followed,  it  may  be  hoped 
that  the  suffering  and  loss  of  the  past  winter  will 
not  be  repeated.  If  it  is  not  done,  consumers 
will  have   themselves  to   blame." 


HOW  COAL  USERS  CAN  HELP  WIN  THE  WAR 


If  you  take  care  of  the  shovelful,  the  coal  mines 
will  take  care  of  the  rest.  The  following  statement 
was  made  by  Dr.  Garfield  as  to  the  necessity  for 
cooperation"  on  the  part  of  consumers,  and  the 
steps  that  have  been  taken  by  the  United  States 
Fuel  Administration  to  improve  the  quality  and 
facilitate    the   distribution    of   coal: 

"The  Fuel  Administration  must  have  the  support 
and  the  active  cooperation,  not  only  of  those  who 
are  engaged  in  production  and  distribution  of  fuel, 
but  of  every  coal  user  in  the  country.  Each  must 
bear  his  share  of  the  patriotic  sacrifice  which  must 
be  made  if  the  coal  supply  is  to  be  properly  in- 
creased   and    adequately    distributed." 

You  can  afford  to  borrow  money  to  lay  in  your 
supply  of  anthracite  now.  The  30  cents  a  ton 
reduction  in  price  will  pay  the  interest  on  what 
you  borrow.  "An  adequate  coal  supply  is  vital 
to  the  winning  of  the  war.  Without  it  we  cannot 
make  munitions  or  other  war  supplies  or  build  the 
ships  which  must  carry  men  and  materials  to  the 
battle  front.  Without  it  industries  will  be  stopped, 
labor  thrown  out  of  employment,  and  the  homes 
of    the    people    will    be    cold." 

"By  carefully  drawn  regulations  the  Fuel  Ad- 
ministration has  insured  the  shipment  of  'clean 
coal'  from  the  mines.  Coal  containing  an  undue 
amount  of  foreign  matter  will  be  penalized  in 
price,  and  producers  who  take  extraordinary 
measures  in  the  preparation  of  their  coal  will  be 
recompensed.  These  measures  will  keep  off  the 
railroads    and    out    of    the    bins    of    the    consumers 


a  large  amount  of  unburnable  material  which  was 
included    in    last   year's    coal   production." 

There  are  a  hundred  ways  to  economize  in  the 
use  of  coal.  Practice  some  of  them.  "The  Fuel 
Administration  expects  the  coal  consumers,  con- 
tinuing their  patriotic  cooperation  with  the  Gov- 
ernment in  all  its  war  measures,  to  maintain  a 
steady  and  constant  demand  for  coal  in  order  to 
attain    this    result." 

Uncle  Sam  can't  send  supplies  to  the  boys  over 
there  without  coal.  Save  some  to  help  your  boy 
and  your  neighbor's  boy.  "To  safeguard  the  con- 
sumer, the  Fuel  Administration  has  prescribed 
regulations  to  prevent  profiteering  and  to  govern 
the  distribution  of  coal  by  licensed  jobbers  and  by 
retailers.  Each  domestic  consumer  will  be  per- 
mitted to  secure  a  full  normal  supply  of  coal,  but 
no    more." 

"Every  ton  of  coal  that  is  hoarded  against 
future  needs  and  is  not  used  during  the  winter  is 
actual  waste.  The  labor  and  transportation  used 
to  bring  the  coal  to  the  consumer  and  the  actual 
energy  of  the  coal  itself  are  withheld  from  doing 
their  part  toward  speedy  victory.  Consumers 
should  secure  just  a  little  less  coal  than  they  be- 
lieve they  need  and  should  make  every  shovelful 
give  its  full  value  in  heat  and  power.  Every 
shovelful  saved  means  help  for  the  industries  in 
turning  out  supplies  for  our  troops  abroad,  help 
for  the  ships  that  must  bridge  the  3,000-mile  gap 
between  our  shores  and  the  battle  front,  and  help 
toward  ultimate  victory." 


EMERGENCY  FUEL  FROM  THE  FARM  WOODLAND 

Circular   79,    Office  of  the  Secretary- 
United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 

By  A.  F.  HAWES 

Extension  Specialist 
Forest  Service   and   States  Relations  Service 

Because  of  the  heavy  demand  for  coal,  both  for  commercial  as  well  as  domestic 
use,  and  because  of  the  great  burden  laid  upon  the  Nation's  transportation  facilities  and 
the  possible  shortage  of  coal  in  certain  sections  of  the  country,  the  demand  should  be  re- 
lieved wherever  feasible.  Farmers  frequently  are  situated  so  they  can  profitably  supply 
fuel  from  their  woodlands  and   thus  relieve,   to  a  considerable  extent,   the  demand  for  coal. 


Manufacturers,  of  course,  cannot  substitute 
wood  for  coal;  neither  can  city  people,  because 
this  would  result  in  even  greater  railroad  conges- 
tion. Nor  is  it  likely  that  in  either  the  South  or 
the  West  the  use  of  wood  for  fuel  can  be  greatly 
increased.  But  it  ought  to  be  entirely  practicable 
in  many  cases  to  replace  coal  with  wood  for  fuel. 
If,  by  substituting  wood,  one-quarter  of  the  coal 
burned  by  farmers  and  one-tenth  of  the  coal 
burned  in  villages  could  be  saved,  the  total  saving 
would  amount  to  between  65,000  and  70,000  car- 
loads. 

It  is  where  team-hauled  wood  can  be  used  in 
place  of  railroad-hauled  coal  that  the  change  should 
be  made.  Farmers  who  own  woodlands  and 
people  in  villages  who  can  purchase  wood  from 
nearby  farms  are  the  ones  in  the  best  position  to 
reduce  their  consumption  of  coal.  For  heating 
many  kinds  of  buildings  wood  is  the  more  con- 
venient and  cheaper  fuel.  This  is  particularly 
true  in  the  case  of  churches,  halls,  summer  cot- 
tages, and  other  buildings  for  which  heat  is  re- 
quired only  occasionally;  but  is  then  wanted  in 
large   volume   at   short   notice. 

Furnaces  are  built  especially  for  burning  wood 
in  3  or  4-foot  lengths.  Short  lengths,  of  course, 
can  readily  be  burned  in  an  ordinary  coal  furnace 
or  in  a  box  stove,  though  this  is  rather  wasteful 
of  fuel.  Many  furnace  manufacturers,  however, 
make  a  special  wood  grate  for  use  in  their  fur- 
naces. One  advantage  in  burning  wood  is  that 
on  moderately  cool  days  the  furnace  can  be  run 
at  a  lower  ebb  than  when  coal  is  used,  consum- 
ing only  enough  fuel  to  remove  the  chill.  When 
wood  is  used  in  a  round  pot  furnace,  care  should 
be    taken    to    have   each   piece   lie   flat. 

If  a  stove  grate  is  too  coarse  for  wood,  a  sheet 
iron  cover  over  a  good  part  of  the  surface  will 
make  it  suitable,  or  a  few  fire  bricks  can  be  used. 
Wood  grates  are  sold  which  are  made  in  two 
pieces  and  which  can  be  inserted  through  the  fire 
door  and   placed   on   top   of  the   regular   grate. 


RELATIVE  HEATING  VALUE  OF  WOOD 
AND  COAL 

In  the  matter  of  heating  value,  one  standard 
cord  of  well-seasoned  hickory,  oak,  beech,  birch, 
hard  maple,  ash,  elm,  locust,  or  cherry  is  approxi- 
mately equal  to  one  ton  (2,000  pounds)  of  an- 
thracite coal.  It  takes  a  cord  and  a  half  of  soft 
maple  and  two  cords  of  cedar,  poplar,  or  bass- 
wood,   however,   to   give  the  same  amount  of  heat. 

One  cord  of  mixed  wood,  well  seasoned,  equals 
in  heating  value  at  least  one  ton  (2,000  pounds) 
of    average- grade    bituminous    coal. 

Table  1  shows  the  price  which  the  consumer 
can  afford  to  pay  for  a  cord  of  wood  as  the 
equivalent   of  anthracite   coal  at  various  prices. 

Table   1. — Prices  which  the  consumer  can  afford  to 
pay  for  wood  as  a  substitute  for  coal. 


Equivalent   price   for 

wood    delivered    in 

stove   lengths. 

Price  of 

Coal  de- 

livered. 

Hickory,  oak,  beech, 

hard  maple,  ash,  elm, 

locust,  cherry 

Soft  maple,  cedar 
poplar,  basswoood 

Per  ton. 

Per  cord 

Per  run. 

Per  cord 

Per  run. 

$5.00 

$5.00 

$1.66 

$2.50 

$0.S3 

6.00 

6.00 

2.00 

3.0U 

1.00 

7.00 

7.00 

2.33 

3.50 

1.16 

S.00 

N.IHI 

2.66 

4.00 

1.33 

9.00 

9.00 

3.00 

4.50 

1.50 

10.00 

10.00 

3.33 

5.00 

1.66 

11.00 

11.00 

3.66 

5.50 

1.83 

12.00 

12.00 

4.00 

6.00 

2.00 

If  the  consumer  can  buy  coal  at  $8  a  ton,  it 
would  hardly  be  worth  his  while  to  burn  first-class 
wood  at  $8  a  cord,  except  in  an  open  fireplace, 
because  coal  is  a  more  convenient  fuel.  If,  how- 
ever, coal  becomes  so  scarce  that  it  cannot  be 
secured  in  sufficient  quantities,  the  consumer  will, 
in  some  cases,  have  to  burn  wood  at  $10  or  even 
$  I  5  a  cord. 


S-73 


S-74 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


WOOD  A  PROFITABLE  FARM  CROP. 

Firewood  ought  to  bring  a  better  profit  this  year 
than  ever  before,  on  account  of  the  higher  prices 
which  are  likely  to  prevail.  Wood  is  a  much  less 
perishable  crop  than  many  which  the  farmer  raises. 
When  properly  piled,  the  better  kinds  of  wood  will 
last  from  two  to  three  years,  though  it  steadily 
deteriorates  after  the  first  year.  To  have  the  best 
heating  value,  as  well  as  to  reduce  the  cost  of 
hauling,  wood  should  be  thoroughly  seasoned, 
which  means  air-drying  it,  from  six  to  eight  months. 
When  piled  so  as  to  get  a  good  circulation  of 
air,  however,  50  per  cent  of  the  moisture  may 
be  removed  in  three  months.  Wood  cut  in  Octo- 
ber and  November,  therefore,  may  be  burned  the 
latter  part  of  the  winter. 

OPPORTUNITY  TO  IMPROVE  THE  WOODLAND 

The  prices  which  cordwood  will  likely  bring 
this  year  offer  an  opportunity  for  the  farmer  to 
improve  his  woodland.  Improving  the  woodland 
means  weeding  out  the  poorer  trees.  In  the  past 
this  has  seldom  been  practicable,  for  the  inferior 
wood  was  not  marketable.  With  wood  bringing 
only  from  $4  to  $5  a  cord,  there  is  very  little 
opportunity  to  secure  a  profit  of  even  $1  a  cord. 
But  with  the  prices  indicated  for  the  coming  win- 
ter, thinnings  become  practicable  over  a  wide 
range  of  country  in  the  vicinity  of  good  markets. 

Some  of  the  things  to  remember  when  cutting 
in    the    woodland    are: 

1 .  Dead  or  dying  trees  should  be  removed.  This 
not  only  utilizes  material  which  is  fairly  dry,  and 
which  would  otherwise  be  wasted,  but  lessens  the 
danger    of    fire. 


2.  Good,  sound,  straight  logs  ordinarily  should 
not  be  used  for  fuel,  since  they  are  more  valuable 
for  lumber.  There  is  a  great  difference  between 
the  prices  paid  for  logs  of  different  grades,  even 
of  the  same  kind  of  wood.  Branches,  crooked  and 
decayed  logs,  trunks  broken  in  felling  or  otherwise 
defective,    should   be   used    for    firewood. 

3.  Trees  likely  to  be  attacked  by  insects  or 
fungi  should  be  removed  to  safeguard  those  which 
remain.  In  eastern  New  England,  for  example,  the 
gipsy  moth  is  a  serious  enemy  of  many  woods. 
Several  of  these  are  of  little  value  and  can  well 
be  removed,  thus  reducing  the  food  available  for 
the  insects.  Where  the  chestnut  blight  is  serious, 
the    chestnut    should    be    largely    cut. 

4.  No  portion  of  the  woodland  should  be  cut 
clean  unless  the  owner  has  carefully  considered 
the  matter  and  decided  that  that  particular  part 
is  best  adapted  for  farm  purposes,  or  that  he  will 
replant  it  with  forest  trees.  Old  trees,  where  they 
predominate,  should  be  gradually  removed,  since 
they  are  not  increasing  in  value.  The  next  genera- 
tion of  trees  will  be  largely  determined  by  those 
which  are  left  for  seed.  The  successful  woodland 
owner  will  study  the  growth  and  uses  of  the  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  trees.  He  will  then  cut  out  those 
of  little  value  and  slow  growth  and  keep  for  seed 
purposes  those  which  will  product  valuable  lumber 
in  a  relatively  short  time.  Table  2  '  classifies  in 
a  general  way  the  trees  which  should  be  favored 
and  those  which  should  be  removed  for  fuel.  In- 
ferior individuals  of  the  better  species,  e.  g.,  those 
which  are  diseased  or  which  are  likely  to  be 
blown   over,   should,   of  course,  be  cut. 


Table  2. — Trees  to  leave  in  the  woodland  and  those   to   remove  for  fuel. 


Region 


New   England   and   North 
Atlantic  States. 


Ohio,   Indiana,    Illinois,   and 
Southeast    Missouri. 

Northern    Michigan,    Wis- 
consin,   Minnesota. 

Southern    Michigan,    Wis- 
consin, Minnesota. 


Species   to    be   favored   for  lumber.       Other 

things   being   equal,   these    should 

be  left 

White  pine,  red  spruce,  balsam,  chestnut,  white 
and  red  oak,  hard  maple,  yellow  birch,  tulip 
poplar,   white  ash,    hickory,   basswood. 

Yellow  poplar,  black  walnut,  red  gum,  white  and 
red  oak,  Cottonwood,  hickory,  white  ash, 
hard   maple,    basswood. 

White  and  red  pine,  aspen,  yellow  birch,  bass- 
wood,    red   oak,   white  ash,    hard   maple. 

White  and  red  oak,  white  ash,  basswood,  hick- 
ory,  hard   maple. 


Species    of    less    value    for 

lumber,  or  slow  growing. 

These   should  be   cut 

Hemlock,  arborvitae,  black 
and  scarlet  oak,  red 
maple,  beech,  gum,  elm, 
gray   birch,    ironwood. 

Black  oak,  red  elm,  beech, 
red  maple. 

Jack  pine,  hemlock,  scarlet 
and  black  oak,  elm, 
beech. 

Black  oak,    red   elm,   beech. 


To  secure  a  second  growth  of  better  trees,  sev- 
eral things  must  be  borne  in  mind:  (a)  Too  large 
openings  should  not  be  made,  because  the  ground 
will  dry  out  and  weeds,  like  berry  bushes,  will 
come  in  and  crowd  out  the  young  trees.      For  this 


reason  it  is  often  a  good  plan  to  leave  some  of 
the  inferior  trees  for  shade.  (b)  Some  trees,  like 
the  oaks,  hickories,  and  beech,  have  heavy  seeds 
or  nuts  which  cannot  be  transported  any  distance 
except   by   animals   or  birds,    while  others,    like   the 


SUPPLEMENT— FUEL  ADMINISTRATION 


S-75 


birch,  maple,  ash,  and  basswood,  have  light  seeds 
which  are  carried  long  distances  by  the  wind.  For 
this  reason  more  frequent  seed  trees  of  the  nut 
varieties  are  necessary  to  get  a  good  stocking  of 
young  trees. 

5.  Woodlands  made  up  of  a  nearly  even-aged 
stand  of  second  growth  are  more  comparable  to 
the  garden  than  to  the  dairy.  Here  the  problem 
is  to  remove  the  weeds  as  a  means  of  getting  a 
quicker  yield  of  timber.  The  small  stunted  trees 
are  the  weeds,  since  they  can  never  make  a 
normal  growth.  The  large  healthy  trees  should 
be  favored,  because  they  will  grow  rapidly  to 
maturity.  They  are  not  to  be  confused  with  the 
mature  trees  in  the  old  woodland,  though  in  gen- 
eral the  same  species  will  be  favored  in  both  cases. 

OWNER  SHOULD   SECURE  EXPERT  ADVICE 

The  foregoing  suggestions  regarding  methods 
of  cutting  should  be  taken  simply  as  suggestions. 
The  woodland  owner  who  wishes  to  avail  himself 
of  the  opportunity  to  improve  his  woodland,  which 
the  high  price  of  wood  makes  possible,  should 
secure     specific     information     from     some     reliable 


forester.  In  States  having  a  State  forester,  appli- 
cation should  be  made  to  him.  In  others,  applica- 
tion should  be  made  to  the  county  agent,  the  State 
agricultural  college,  or  to  the  United  States  Forest 
Service,   Washington,   D.    C. 

COMMUNITY  ACTION  REGARDING  WOOD 
SUPPLY 

Communities  which  feel  they  are  threatened 
with  a  serious  fuel  shortage  will  do  well  to  take 
measures  to  stimulate  the  cutting  of  wood.  Farm- 
ers may  hesitate  because  of  the  high  cost  of  labor 
to  invest  money  in  this  way.  If,  however,  a  mini- 
mum price  sufficient  to  allow  them  a  fair  profit 
could  be  guaranteed  by  the  consumer,  they  would 
cut  all  that  was  needed  for  the  community.  Such 
contracts  should  be  placed  as  early  as  possible,  so 
that  the  wood  may  be  properly  seasoned. 

Since  few  farmers  get  out  enough  wood  to  re- 
quire a  stovewood  mill  as  part  of  their  equipment, 
it  is  suggested  that  a  group  of  farmers  operate 
such  a  mill  cooperatively.  In  many  localities,  the 
farmers*  club  would  be  an  admirable  organization 
for   such  an    undertaking. 


FIVE  WAYS  OF  SAVING  FUEL 

IN    HEATING    HOUSES 

(From  Technical  Paper    199,  Dept.   of  Interior) 

By  HENRY  KREISINGER 


INTRODUCTION 

This  country  faces  a  shortage  of  coal,  and  it  is  the  patriotic  duty  of  every  citizen 
to  save  coal  in  heating  his  home.  If  everybody  "does  his  bit,"  a  ton  of  coal  at  each 
home  can  be  saved  easily  during  the  winter.  For  the  entire  country,  this  saving  would 
amount  to  20,000,000  tons  of  coal,  which  is  nearly  as  much  as  all  the  coal  mined  in  France 
during   the  present   year.      Five   ways   in   which  coal  can  be  saved  are  as  follows: 

1 .  Of  the  coals  available  in  your  market  select  the  one  that  requires  the  least 
attention  in  burning. 

2.  Use    an    economical   method    of   burning  your  coal. 

3.  Keep   your   house   temperature   62  to  65  degrees  F.,  instead  of  72  to  75  degrees. 

4.  Heat  as   few  rooms   as  the   comfort  of  your  family  will  permit. 

5.  Shorten  the  heating  season  as  much  as  possible. 


1.     SELECTION  OF  COALS 

In  house-heating  equipment  the  fires  can  be 
given  very  little  attention;  therefore  fuels  that  re- 
quire little  attention  in  burning  are  the  most 
economical  and  give  the  best  satisfaction.  In  time 
of  war  less  desirable  coal  may  have  to  be  used,  in 
order  to  simplify  transportation  problems,  but  the 
fact  remains  that  some  coals  are  more  efficient 
than  others  when  the  same  attention  is  given  the 
fire.  Usually  the  man  of  the  house  can  attend 
to  the  furnace  early  in  the  morning  and  again  in 
the  evening.  In  some  houses  the  furnace  is  at- 
tended only  when  the  house  becomes  either  too 
hot  or  too  cold,  and  thus  the  fire  is  allowed  to 
run  from  one  extreme  to  the  other,  conditions 
which    are    very    unfavorable    to    saving    of    fuel. 

In  order  that  a  fuel  may  be  burned  economically 
in  a  house-heating  furnace,  the  fuel  used  should 
be  of  such  kind  that  the  fire  requires  little  atten- 
tion. The  following  fuels,  in  the  order  named, 
are  the  best  fuels   for  house-heating  purposes: 

Anthracite  coal  in  sizes  from  J/2  inch  to  egg  size. 

Gas-retort  or  metallurgical  coke  in  pieces  yi 
inch   to    3    inches   across. 

Coal    briquets    2    to    3    inches    in    diameter. 

Screened  Pocahontas  (semi-bituminous)  coal 
over   Ya   inch  and  through  3   or  4  inch  screen. 

Sized  bituminous  coal  in  pieces  Yl  to  3  inches 
across. 

If  these  fuels  can  be  bought,  fine  sizes  or  slack 
coal  or  other  fuels  requiring  frequent  attention 
when  burning  should  be  left  for  power  plants, 
where  the  firemen  can  and  should  give  the  fires 
frequent  attention. 


2.      USE    AN    ECONOMICAL    METHOD    OF 
BURNING   YOUR   COAL 

The  conditions  under  which  house-heating  ap- 
paratus is  used  are  difficult  to  meet.  The  tem- 
perature of  the  house  is  to  be  kept  uniform,  with 
the  firings  far  apart  and  with  little  attention  given 
to  the  fires.  The  questions  for  each  household  to 
decide  are:  How  much  variation  in  the  house 
temperature  can  be  tolerated,  and  how  much  atten- 
tion can  be  given  to  the  furnace.  The  kind  of 
heating  apparatus  has  a  great  deal  to  do  with  the 
uniformity  of  the  house  temperature  and  the 
amount  of  attention  that  must  be  given  to  the 
fire.  Hot-water  systems  will  give  much  more  uni- 
form temperature  with  less  attention  to  the  fires 
than  hot-air  systems.  No  one  set  of  rules  will 
work   satisfactorily   in   all   cases. 

FIRING  ANTHRACITE 

When  firing  anthracite,  the  best  results  are  ob- 
tained by  spreading  the  coal  evenly  over  the  entire 
fuel  bed.  The  fire  should  not  be  allowed  to  be- 
come too  low  before  putting  on  a  fresh  firing.  A 
fuel  bed  5  to  1 0  inches  thick  gives  good  results. 
The   fire   should   be  disturbed   as  little   as  possible. 

FIRING    BRIQUETS 

Briquets,  when  properly  made,  are  very  good 
fuel  for  house-heating  purposes.  However,  the 
supply  is  decidedly  limited.  When  burning  bri- 
quets the  fuel  bed  should  be  kept  8  to  12  inches 
thick.  The  fresh  charges  should  be  spread  evenly 
over  the  grate  area.  The  fire  must  not  be  dis- 
turbed. Poking  breaks  the  briquets  and  spoils 
the    fire. 

FIRING    SEMI-BITUMINOUS    COALS 

The     semi-bituminous    coals    of    the    Pocahontas 


S-76 


SUPPLEMENT— FUEL  ADMINISTRATION 


S-77 


type  are  good  fuel  for  heating  a  house.  They  are 
nearly  smokeless  and  make  but  little  soot.  For 
regular  firing  the  coal  can  be  spread  evenly  over 
the  entire  fuel  bed;  or,  it  can  be  fired  like  bitu- 
minous coal,  the  fresh  charges  being  placed  alter- 
nately on  one  side  of  the  grate  and  part  of  the 
surface  of  the  fuel  bed  left  uncovered.  The  al- 
ternate method  should  be  used  if  the  firings  are 
heavy.  The  fire  keeps  better  overnight  if  the  last 
firing  is  heaped  to  one  side  of  the  grate.  Good 
results  are  obtained  with  fires  8  to    I  0  inches  thick. 

FIRING  BITUMINOUS  COALS 

The  bituminous,  or  soft  coals,  are  smoky  and 
cover  the  flue  surfaces  with  a  large  amount  of 
soot  and  tar,  which  reduces  the  transfer  of  heat 
and  impairs  the  draft.  Bituminous  coal  should  be 
fired  by  placing  the  fresh  charge  on  one  side  of 
the  grate  only,  leaving  part  of  the  surface  of  the 
fuel  bed  uncovered.  The  volatile  matter  rising 
from  the  freshly  fired  coal  is  ignited  by  the  red- 
hot  coal  of  the  uncovered  part  of  the  fire  and  a 
large  part  of  it  burns. 

If  the  entire  surface  of  the  fuel  bed  is  covered 
with  a  heavy  charge,  the  volatile  matter  from  the 
fired  coal  does  not  ignite  for  a  considerable  length 
of  time  after  firing  and  passes  away  unburned  as 
tarry,  greenish-yellow  smoke.  The  furnace  and 
the  flues  become  filled  with  the  smoke  and  when 
the  fire  finally  works  its  way  through  the  fresh 
layer  of  coal  the  smoke  and  the  gases  may  ignite 
with  an  explosion  violent  enough  to  blow  the 
pipes  down  and  fill  the  house  with  smoke.  These 
explosions  are  particularly  apt  to  happen  if  the 
coal  contains  much  slack;  therefore,  with  such 
coal  particular  care  should  be  taken  that  part  of 
the  bright  fire  remains  uncovered.  This  method 
of  firing  reduces  the  amount  of  soot  deposited  in 
the  flues,  so  that  less  frequent  cleaning  is  neces- 
sary; it  also  reduces  the  heat  losses  from  incom- 
plete combustion,  thus  directly  effecting  a  saving 
of   coal. 

DRAFT  REGULATION 

Draft  regulation  is  perhaps  the  most  important 
factor  in  burning  coal  efficiently  in  house-heating 
furnaces.  The  draft  is  regulated  mainly  with  three 
dampers;  one  of  these  is  on  the  ash-pit  doors, 
one  on  the  firing  door,  and  one  in  the  pipe  con- 
necting the  furnace  with  the  chimney.  For  many 
furnaces  the  damper  in  the  flue  pipe  is  an  opening 
covered  with  a  hinged  lid  A,  in  Fig.  I.  When  this 
lid  is  closed  the  full  chimney  draft  is  effective 
in  the  furnace.  When  the  lid  is  lifted,  the  chim- 
ney draws  air  from  the  cellar  instead  of  drawing 
the  gases  out  of  the  furnace,  and  the  draft  in  the 
furnace  is  reduced  almost  to  nothing.  Between 
the  two  extremes  any  draft  can  be  obtained  by 
proper  adjustment  of  the  lid. 

The  damper  B  on  the  ash-pit  door  regulates  the 
flow    of    air    through    the    fire,    and    the    amount    of 


air  flowing  through  the  fire  determines  the  rate 
of  combustion,  or  the  amount  of  coal  that  the 
furnace  can  burn  in  an  hour.  Therefore,  to  con- 
trol the  rate  of  combustion  and  thereby  regulate 
the  amount  of  heat  the  furnace  delivers  to  the 
house,  the  furnace  attendant  adjusts  the  damper 
in  the  ash-pit  door  and  the  damper  to  the  chimney. 


I 

V 


I 


tt/AM/iCS 


i 


Samper.  A- 


7 


■FJG  1 

Fig.     I . Position    of    dampers    in    a    house-heating 

furnace.       Damper    A    regulates    the    draft    in 
the  furnace  and  should  be  used  with  Dampers 
B   and   C.      Damper  B   regulates   the   supply   of 
air    through   the   grate    and    the    rate   at  which 
the     coal     burns.        Damper     C     regulates     the 
supply  of  air  over  the   fire  and   the   complete- 
ness   of   combustion.      Damper   D   controls   the 
draft  and  should  be  used  with  Damper  A. 
The    Damper    C    in    the    firing    door    supplies    air 
over    fire    needed    to    burn    the    gases    rising    from 
the    fuel   bed;   therefore,    its   regulation   controls  the 
completeness  of  combustion  of  these  gases.      When 
soft  coal  is  burned,   a   large  volume   of  combustible 
gases    rises    from    the    fuel    bed    immediately    after 
the    firing;    therefore,    the    damper    in    the   fire    door 
must  be  opened  enough  to  allow  the  air  necessary 
for  burning  the   gases  to   enter  the  furnace.      After 
the    smoky    gases    cease    to    rise    from    the    freshly 
fired    coal,    the    quantity    of    air    supplied    over    the 
fuel    bed     can    be     reduced    by    partly     closing    the 
damper    in    the    firing    door.       There    should    be    a 
damper,    D,    in    the    smoke    pipe;    this    damper    can 
be    used    in    addition    to    Damper   A    to    control    the 
draft. 

No  rule  can  be  given  for  the  exact  adjustment 
of  the  dampers.  The  proper  adjustment  must  be 
ascertained  by  trial;  with  a  little  care  and  some 
patience  the  proper  adjustment  of  the  dampers 
of  any  furnace  can  be  determined.  In  general,  to 
make  the  fire  burn  faster,  close  the  lid  A  (Fig.  1) 
in    the    pipe   leading   to   the    chimney   and    open    the 


S-78 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— SUPPLEMENT 


Damper  B  (Fig.  I)  in  the  ash-pit  door.  To  make 
(he  fire  burn  slower,  raise  somewhat  the  lid  in  the 
check  draft  A  and  partly  close  the  Damper  B  in 
the  ash-pit  door.  The  Damper  C  in  the  firing  door 
is  more  difficult  to  adjust  because  there  is  no 
way  to  determine  the  completeness  of  combustion. 
In  burning  soft  coal,  this  damper  should  be 
slightly  open  all  the  time.  In  burning  hard  coal 
or  coke  enough  air  for  complete  combustion  may 
enter  the  furnace  through  various  leaks,  even  when 
the  damper  is  completely  closed. 

3.  KEEPING  THE  HOUSE  TEMPERATURE 
LOWER 

In  heating  houses  considerable  fuel  can  be  saved 
by  keeping  the  temperature  in  the  house  5°  to 
10°  F.  lower  than  is  customary;  instead  of  the 
temperature  being  between  70°  and  74°  F.t  it 
can  be  kept  between  62°  and  68°  F.  without  any 
discomfort  or  any  danger  to  health.  In  fact,  some 
medical  authorities  ascribe  the  "colds"  common 
in  winter  to  living  in  too  warm  houses.  Thus 
Dr.  William  Brady' writes: 

"Air  need  never  be  heated  above  65°  F.  for 
comfort.  Anything  above  that  point  represents 
waste  and  extravagance.  It  simply  runs  up  a  big 
coal  bill  and  opens  various  doors  to  the  coming 
of  the  doctor.  The  onset  of  cough  in  winter  is 
almost   a    sure    sign    of   such   extravagance." 

Those  interested  in  saving  the  country's  fuel  and 
lowering  their  own  coal  bills  will  be  glad  to  know 
that  keeping  the  house  at  65°  instead  of  72°  F., 
means  a  saving  of  15  to  20  per  cen't  of  their 
fuel.  It  may  also  mean  a  saving  on  the  doctor's 
bill. 

4.    HEATING  FEWER  ROOMS 

Another   easy   saving   of   fuel    can  be   effected   by 


heating  fewer  rooms  in  the  house.  In  many 
houses  the  family  can  get  along  comfortably  by 
keeping  warm  three  or  four  rooms  instead  of 
heating  six  or  seven  rooms.  And  this  can  be  done 
without  any  real  hardship  on  the  family.  Really, 
only  the  three  rooms  in  which  the  family  lives  need 
be  heated  at  all.  If  consumptives  can  get  well 
by  sleeping  outdoors,  why  could  not  well  people 
keep  well  by  sleeping  in  unheated  bedrooms  with 
the  windows  wide  open? 

5.  SHORTENING  THE  HEATING  SEASON 

In  some  homes  the  furnace  is  started  too  early 
in  the  fall  and  is  run  too  late  in  the  spring.  The 
chimneys  of  these  homes  are  belching  smoke  and 
spreading  soot  over  their  neighborhood,  while  the 
neighbors  keep  windows  and  doors  open  to  the 
outside  air  and  even  sit  on  the  front  porches. 
These  faint-hearted  people,  in  their  fear  of  catch- 
ing cold,  heat  their  houses  unnecessarily;  thus  they 
waste  the  country's  coal,  increase  their  coal  bills, 
invite  sickness  into  their  homes,  and  make  life 
unpleasant  to  their  neighbors.  When  mornings 
and  evenings  are  chilly,  a  grate  fire  for  a  short 
time  in  one  or  two  rooms  will  make  the  house 
comfortable. 

CONCLUSION 

Every  householder,  by  endeavoring  to  save  coal 
in  the  ways  suggested,  can  render  his  country 
valuable  service,  and  he  will  not  be  doing  his  full 
duty  toward  his  country  unless  he  renders  such 
service  as  he  can.  In  addition,  he  should  remem- 
ber that  besides  helping  his  country  he  will  help 
to  shorten  the  misery  and  the  horror  of  the  great 
war. 


SAVE  FUEL  IN  THE  COOK  STOVE 


See  Section  IV— Part  I. 

THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK 

TALKS  ON  FOODS 

Pages  77-83 

The  Use  of  the  Oven 

Save  Fuel  When  You  Cook 

Use  Your  Dampers  the  Right  Way 

Ways    to   Save  Gas  and  Oil 
The  Fireless  Cooker 


The  Home-Keeping  Book 

U  D 

□ 


THE 

HOME-KEEPING 

■  BOOK* 


NATIONAL   SERVICE   EDITION 


Specially  Prepared 


for  use  as  the 


OFFICIAL  TEXT-BOOK 


of  the 


NATIONAL   HOME-KEEPERS'    SERVICE   CLUB 


MEMBERSHIP 

in  the 

NATIONAL     HOME-KEEPERS'     SERVICE     CLUB 

carries 
FULL     SUPPLEMENT     SERVICE 

to 

THE     HOME-KEEPING     BOOK 

as  well  as  copy  of 

THIS    EDITION 

and 

all  other 

FULL   ACTIVE  CLUB   SERVICE 


National   Home-Keepers'    Service    Club 

15  East  40th  Street 

New  York 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK 


Text  Compilation 

and    Editing 

by 

W.    GARLAND    BROWN 

□ 

Illustrations 
by 
EDGAR    KELLER 
RACHEL   ROBINSON   ELMER 


Art  Make-up  and  Supervision 

by 

GAUTHIER 


Publishers 

THE  HOME-KEEPING  PRESS 

New  York 


Fleming  &  Reavely,  Inc. 

Printers 
New   York — Philadelphia 


\*J 


-v 


Copyright,    1918 
THE  HOME-KEEPING  PRESS 

New  York 


AUG  -!  1918 


TABLE  of  CONTENTS 

of 
THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK 

(For  ALPHABETICAL  INDEX,  see  Back  of  Book) 

Title  Pages 

Introductory  Pages 

U.  S.  Food  Administration  SUPPLEMENT  on  War  Con- 
servation and  Economics 

U.  S.  Fuel  Administration  SUB-SUPPLEMENT  on  Fuel  and 
Fuel  Saving 

The  Home-Keeping  Book  and  College  and  Other  Bulletins.  . 

A  LITTLE  SHARP  TALK  on  The  Way  a  Woman  Buys  and 
"Who  Pays  for  the  Advertising" 

ON  FURNITURE  AND  DECORATION 

SELECTION  OF  HOUSEHOLD  EQUIPMENT 

SECTION  I.     THE  GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD— 

Household  Schedule;  Household  Accounts;  Home 
Management;  Care  of  Furniture;  Floors  and  Floor 
Coverings;  Walls  and  Wall-Paper;  Curtains,  Shades, 
Cushions    

II.     GENERAL  UTILITY— 

Simple  Terms  in  Electricity;  The  Daily  Dusting  and 
Cleaning;  Household  Miscellany;  Wearing  Apparel; 
The  Sewing  Room    

III.  THE  DINING  ROOM  AND  THE  REFRIGERATOR— 

The  Table  Beautiful;  Dining  Room  and  Table  Equip- 
ment and  Care;  Refrigerator 

IV.  The  KITCHEN  and  COOKERY— 

Part  1.     Talks  on  Food  and  Food  Values 

Part  2.     Cooking  and  Recipes    

A  complete,  simplified  COOK-BOOK,  in  32 
Classifications,  with  Departmental  common-sense 
TALKS. 

V.     KITCHEN,  BATH  and  LAUNDRY— 

(and  other)  CONVENIENCES  and  Their  Care;  also 
Mice,    Insects    and    Vermin    

VI.     THE  LAUNDRY  and  THE  IRONING  BOARD— 

Including  CLEANING — Recipes  and  All  Kinds  of 
STAINS    

VII.     THE  FAMILY  DOCTOR  AND  HEALTH— 

The  Home  Nurse;  Emergencies;  Accidents;  Diet  for 
Invalids;  Nurse's  Kitchen;  Home  Remedies  and 
Health  Hints — Practical  Dietetics;  Colds,  etc.; 
Children's  Troubles 

VIII.  PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  CARE  OF  THE  PERSON 
The  Human  Machine;  Its  Care;  Bath,  Complexion, 
Face,  Skin;  Eyes,  Ears,  Nose;  Hands  and  Nails;  Feet; 
Hair  and  Scalp;  Teeth.  Personal  Clothing;  Attitude, 
Exercise 

XI.     MOTHER  AND  BABY;  THE  GROWING  CHILD— 
Children's   Bureau    

X.     THE  INDOOR  GARDEN  AND  CUT  FLOWERS—.  .  . 

XI.     THE  KITCHEN  GARDEN— 

All  About  Gardening  for  Home-Use 

INDEX — Alphabetical — Complete,  at  Back  of  Book 

ix 


1— VIM 

ix— xvi 

S-l-S-67 

S-69-S-78 
1 

3 
5 

7 


9-22 


23-38 


39-44 

47-84 
87-324 


325-338 


339-370 


371-406 


407-446 

447-466 
467-476 

477-502 
xvii— xxxiv 


FOR   COMPLETE   INDEX 
(Alphabetical) 

SEE   BACK   OF   BOOK 


HELP  US  IMPROVE  FUTURE  EDITIONS 

of 
THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK 


To  the  "Home-Keeper": 

This  book  is  arranged  so  that  it  is  of  equal  value  to  the  "beginner  at  home- 
making"  and  the  well  advised  home-keeper  of  long  experience. 

Patterns  and  instructions  to  serve  as  guide  and  mentor  to  the  beginner 
will  be  found  provided  in  terms  and  arrangement  of  the  easiest  simplicity.  Sci- 
entific studies  which  can  be  mastered  only  by  those  of  long  practice  and  much 
experience  are  provided  for  the  latter.  Outlines  for  independent  study  are  pre- 
sented for  both,  as  well  as  suggestions  for  class  and  club  work,  and  lists  of  ref- 
erence books  and  pamphlets  for  home  economic  education  to  almost  any  degree. 

But  in  the  main  the  book  is  intended  for  an  everyday  practical  reference- 
work  for  the  average  home-keeper  in  the  average  home ;  it  is  simple  in  its  terms ; 
its  guideposts,  for  finding  one's  way  about,  are  clear,  concise,  and  planned  for  the 
quick  finding  of  what  is  wanted  at  the  time  when  it  is  wanted. 

The  woman  who  has  managed  a  household  for  some  years  will  have,  in 
a  miscellaneous  collection  of  magazines,  recipe  books  and  clippings,  the  most  of 
the  matter  contained  herein,  and  because  of  her  familiarity  with  the  assortment 
may  be  able  to  find,  occasionally,  what  she  wants  at  the  time  wanted. 

The  book  claims  usefulness  mainly  in  the  fact  that  its  contents  are  collected 
into  the  covers  of  one  binding,  arranged,  classified,  indexed,  forming  a  convenient, 
compact,  attractive  and  interesting  reference  work  in  all  departments  of  "home- 
keeping."  The  matter  itself  is  distinctly  not  original — it  is  time-tried  and  tested, 
the  last  word  of  the  best  and  most  experienced  practical  authorities  in  each  case. 

— The  Publishers. 


To  Those  to  Whom  These  Presents  Shall  Come — 

Greeting: 

The  Publishers  will  deeply  appreciate  it  if  you  will  send  us,  frequently, 
special  scraps  or  memoranda  of  your  own — in  as  great  abundance  as  you  may  be 
willing  to  write  them  out  for  us. 

When  you  have  something  tried  and  proven,  which  you  do  not  find  in- 
cluded in  this  Book,  or  which  improves  on  what  is  herein  published,  either  in  effi- 
cacy, convenience  or  economy,  we  will  most  sincerely  welcome  its  receipt  in  every 
instance.  This  most  especially  applies  to  the  various  sections  other  than  Cookery 
and  Kitchen  Recipes.  In  helping  us  in  this  manner  you  are  helping  other  "home- 
keepers" — future  owners  of  future  editions  of  the  Book,  and  present  owners  who 
receive  the  Supplement  Service. 

There  is  no  such  other  work  published  as  The  Home-Keeping  Book,  pro- 
curable either  in  the  general  book  market  or  otherwise.  Commend  it  to  your 
friends. 

The  Home-Keeping  Book  is  in  every  way,  in  fact  as  well  as  in  spirit,  in- 
tended and  published  with  our  sincere  wish  and  aspiration  to  all  "home-keepers"  of 

"A  Long,  a  Happy  and  a 
Prosperous  Home-Keeping." 

—THE   HOME-KEEPING   PRESS 


» 


"CONSERVATION"  DOES  NOT  MEAN  "PRICES" 

It  is  difficult  for  the  most  of  us  to  appreciate  the  meaning  of  the  term 
"conservation."  To  us  all,  at  first  thought,  the  entire  program  seems  futile  if  it 
does  not  effect,  and  effect  at  once  a  "reduced  cost  of  living"  in  our  own  homes. 
"What  does  it  all  amount  to,"  we  ask,  "if  meat  and  grocery  bills  continue  higher 
week  by  week?" 

Conservation  cannot  be  expressed  only  in  dollars  and  cents.  The  saving  of 
money  is  not  necessarily  synonymous  with  economy. 

If  there  were  exactly  ten  barrels  of  wheat  flour  in  the  world,  and  twenty 
people  each  wanted  a  barrel,  they  might  bid  up  the  price  until  the  ten  least  able  to 
pay  the  advancing  bids  retired  from  the  competition  and  the  flour  went  to  those 
who  were  left.  Some  of  the  successful  ten,  however,  might  have  decided  to  use 
less  than  a  barrel ;  some  of  the  others  would  thus  have  had  a  chance.  But  irrespec- 
tive of  how  the  prices  went,  the  same  ten  barrels  would  be  booked  for  consump- 
tion. Although  individuals  had  effected  a  certain  "economy"  in  this  case  in  not 
bidding — waiting  instead  for  relinquishment  of  a  part  of  the  stock  at  a  lower  price 
— there  has  been  no  conservation  in  the  total  stock.  The  action  may  have  been 
commendable,  in  resulting  in  forcing  prices  lower,  especially  provided  those  who 
sold  the  flour  had  been  cornering  or  controlling  the  market  by  holding  up  the  total 
stock,  or  otherwise  were  undeserving  of  the  prices  they  were  obtaining.  But  that 
is  not  conservation. 

If  people  pay  high  prices  it  means  merely  that  some  are  distributing  to 
others  a  surplus  of  money  which  they  possess,  or  feel  that  they  possess.  It  changes 
the  total  supply  neither  of  money  nor  of  merchandise;  it  tends  only  to  equalize  or 
scatter  the  supply. 

If,  however,  someone  notices  that  there  are  only  ten  barrels  of  flour  in  the 
world,  that  there  are  two  million  bushels  of  corn,  that  much  of  this  corn  is  going  to 
waste  because  the  farmers  cannot  get  it  to  market,  learns  that  this  corn  meal  can 
be  mixed  with  wheat  flour  to  make  as  palatable  and  wholesome  bread  as  wheat 
flour  alone — and  proceeds  to  buy  corn  meal  to  use  along  with  the  flour — that  is 
conservation.  Such  person  has  "saved"  or  "conserved"  some  actual  food  stuff; 
the  total  food  stuff  of  the  nations  is  increased  by  the  amount  of  corn  meal  which 
one  certain  family  has  consumed — corn  otherwise  wasted  has  gone  into  the  human 
stomach  for  sustenance.  If  one  million  families  have  multiplied  this  act  into  one 
million  acts,  the  total  food  stores  of  the  world  have  been  pronouncedly  increased. 

The  proportionate  increase  is  in  the  single  act — though  less  apparent.  The 
individual  may  or  may  not  save  money  in  the  process,  but  that  in  no  way  affects  the 
conservation  that  is  involved. 

One  may,  with  intelligence,  effect  the  personal  economy  and  the  conserva- 
tion together.  He  does  this  if  the  corn  is  cheaper  than  the  flour  as  well  as  being  a 
product  that  is  rotting  in  the  bins.  If  one  eats  fruit  from  his  own  orchard  or  veget- 
ables from  his  own  garden  under  conditions  where  he  would  otherwise  have  to  see 
them  wasted  or  ship  them  to  a  market  where  some  of  them  will  rot,  if  he  buys  them 
from  his  neighbor  who  cannot  ship  them  to  advantage,  or  if  he  preserves,  dries  or 
cans  them  for  winter  use,  he  is  conserving  and  at  the  same  time  saving  his  own 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— INTRODUCTORY 


pocketbook.  All  perishable  goods  consumed  near  point  of  production  tend  to  con- 
servation, for  of  such  goods  shipped  to  market  a  certain  portion  will  eventually 
spoil  and  never  be  consumed  at  any  price. 

If  one  changes  from  flour  to  potatoes,  granting  that  no  potatoes  are  rotting 
in  the  market  but  merely  that  they  are  cheaper  at  the  time  than  the  flour,  he  is 
saving  money  for  himself  but  he  is  not  conserving ;  he  is  adding  nothing  to  the  total 
stock  unless  some  of  the  potato  stock  of  that  season's  crop  is  going  to  waste.  In 
this  particular  instance,  however,  at  this  particular  time,  he  is  conserving  for  the 
benefit  of  the  war  conditions  of  the  Allies — for  the  Allies  can  use  and  must  have 
flour,  and  we  cannot  send  them  potatoes. 

When  one  eats  fish  in  place  of  meat  he  conserves  food.  Cattle,  sheep  and 
hogs  represent  a  limited  and  reducing  supply;  besides,  corn  or  other  grain  stuffs 
have  to  be  fed  to  stock  to  produce  stock.  But  millions  of  fish  infest  the  waters  of 
the  sea;  they  die;  alive  or  dead  other  fish  consume  them.  Many  varieties  live 
off  of  sea  vegetation.  None  of  them  are  fed  on  what  would  else  be  human  food. 
The  cost  of  fish  represents  no  cost  of  production,  no  diminuation  in  total  food  but 
in  each  case  a  one  hundred  per  cent,  increase.  The  cost  is  strictly  the  labor  of  tak- 
ing them  and  marketing  them.  The  eating  of  fish  represents  a  net  gain  and  is  con- 
servation in  its  widest  sense. 

Conservation  of  food  means  making  less  food  accomplish  the  same  susten- 
ance, or  the  same  food  more  sustenance,  using  waste  foods  in  the  stead  of  foods 
of  which  little  or  none  is  wasted,  providing  food  by  tilling  soil,  by  seining  the  sea, 
or  otherwise  making  food  where  food  did  not  exist  before. 

Bear  these  principles  in  mind  and  follow  them  and  you  are  "doing  your  bit" 
in  the  food  conservation  program  which  must  help  keep  the  world  alive  during 
this  period  of  shortage  of  food  which  must  continue  and  must  become  yet  more 
and  more  pronounced  inevitably  until  this  war  for  the  world's  democracy  and 
liberty  is  won. 


A  WORD  FROM  PRESIDENT  WILSON 


This  is  the  Time  for  America  to  Correct 
Her  Unpardonable  Fault  of  Wastefulness 
and  Extravagance. 


In  no  direction  can  they  (the  women  of  America)  so  greatly 
assist  as  by  enlisting  in  the  service  of  the  Food  Administration  and 
cheerfully  accepting  its  direction  and  advice.  By  so  doing  they  will 
increase  the  surplus  of  food  available  for  our  own  army  and  for  ex- 
port to  the  Allies.  To  provide  adequate  supplies  for  the  coming  year 
is  of  absolutely  vital  importance  to  the  conduct  of  the  war,  and  with- 
out a  very  conscientious  elimination  of  waste  and  very  strict  economy 
in  our  food  consumption  we  cannot  hope  to  fulfill  this  primary  duty. 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK 

and 
COLLEGE  AND  GOVERNMENT  BULLETINS 

Practically  all  of  the  States  issue  bulletins  of  great  value  to  the  student  of 
Home  and  Food  Economics.  We  cannot  incorporate  in  this  work  even  an  approx- 
imation to  the  wealth  of  this  material.  It  is  not  the  intention  of  The  "Home- 
Keeping"  Book  to  cover  the  exhaustive  scientific  studies  which  the  States,  and  the 
Government,  with  their  hundreds  of  trained  experts,  cover  far  more  thoroughly — 
nor  to  merely  "copy"  or  "repeat"  from  their  bulletins. 

This  work  is  intended  as  a  concise  reference  book,  not  a  full  scientific  treat- 
ise. We  try  to  gather  together  under  headings  the  more  important  recommenda- 
tions and  conclusions  reached  by  experts,  so  that  a  woman  in  her  home  may  get 
the  information  she  wants,  quickly,  when  she  wants  it,  rather  than  be  compelled  to 
look  through  many  bulletins,  or  to  study  those  bulletins  until  she  knows  much  of 
them  by  heart. 

We  commend  mastery.  We  urge  all  women  to  by  all  means  send  for  Govern- 
ment and  State  bulletins,  study  them,  master  as  many  of  them  as  possible,  and 
know  her  subjects  thoroughly. 

But  even  after  this  is  done  she  will  find  constant  use  for  The  Home-Keep- 
ing  Book  for  quick  reference  purposes,  for  refreshing  the  memory  on  details,  for 
exact  recipes  and  on  subjects  she  has  not  seen  fit,  because  not  frequently  needed, 
to  burden  her  mind  with  mastering. 

The  State  Colleges,  as  a  rule,  furnish  free  to  residents  of  their  own  States, 
the  bulletins  they  publish.  To  non-residents  they  usually  charge  a  few  cents  to 
cover  cost.  The  Government  bulletins  are  mostly  free  to  all;  on  some  there  is  a 
small  charge. 

We  are  heavily  indebted  to  Government  bulletins,  and  to  those  of  our 
own  State  (New  York)  for  much  information,  and  for  matter  copied  bodily  in  this 
book.  We  have  drawn  heavily,  also,  on  the  bulletins  of  the  Iowa  State  College, 
which  publishes  certain  bulletin  work  in  a  form  peculiarly  adaptable  to  our  use  as 
well  as  peculiarly  good.  We  have  used  to  a  less  degree  bulletin  matter  from  a 
number  of  the  other  States.  We  have  drawn  strongly  on  the  better  class  of  maga- 
zines and  the  best  of  a  large  number  of  books  published  on  the  various  subjects 
embraced  in  this  work. 

These  magazines  and  special  book  publications  are  of  great  value  to  the 
home-keeper,  and  she  should  by  no  means  overlook  the  Government  and  State  bul- 
letins, but  should  accumulate  a  good  reference  library  of  such  publications. 

This  is  particularly  true  at  this  moment,  when  it  is  the  absolute  duty  of 
every  woman  to  "help  win  the  war"  by  studying  particularly  the  bulletins  of  the 
U.  S.  Food  Administration  and  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,  and  generally 
all  publications  that  will  instruct  and  aid  her  in  practical  home  conservation  and 
economics. 

—THE  PUBLISHERS. 


WE  MAKE  NO  GUARANTEES 

This  book  is  a  compilation.  The  matter  contained  in  its  pages 
has  been  secured,  in  all  items,  from  the  best  sources.  The  most  re- 
liable authorities  have  been  consulted.  We  are  indebted  to  many 
U.  S.  Government  Bulletins  and  State  and  College  Bulletins,  as  well 
as  to  numerous  women's  periodicals  and  reliable  books  published 
touching  on  the  subjects  treated.  We  have  used  no  matter  for  which 
it  was  not  stated  in  connection  with  the  promulgation  through  the 
above  sources  that  the  suggestions  or  the  recipes  involved  had  been 
thoroughly  and  reliably  tried  and  tested. 

At  the  same  time,  errors  and  mistakes  are  possible  on  matter 
even  from  the  best  authorities.  If  such  are  found,  we  can  only  indulge 
the  request  that  our  attention  be  called  to  the  same  in  order  that  we 
may  make  corrections  for  the  benefit  of  others  in  the  future,  as  they 
in  turn  become  owners  of  copies  of  future  editions  of  The  Home- 
Keeping  Book. 

—THE  PUBLISHERS. 


A  Little  Sharp  Talk  to  the  Woman 

Straight   from   the   Shoulder 

About   the   Way   a   Woman   Buys 

You  go  into  a  grocery  store  and  buy  a  can  of  coffee.  You  see  it  displayed 
there — or  perhaps  the  grocer  mentions  it — and  you  have  heard  of  it  before,  and  so, 
unless  you  came  after  some  other  brand  you  had  been  using  and  liked,  you  buy  it. 

If  you  don't  like  it,  you  don't  buy  it  next  time.  You  try  something  else  you 
have  heard  of. 

If  you  do  like  it,  however,  and  think  it  good  value,  you  ask  for  it  next  time. 
And  you  keep  on  asking  for  it,  time  after  time.     Why  do  you  do  this? 

Because  you  like  it — and  the  price  suits  you.  And  you  learn  that  each  time 
it  is  the  same  coffee,  and  tastes  the  same  and  makes  the  same  number  of  cups  at  the 
same  strength,  and — well,  you  simply  feel  that  you  know  and  sort  of  value  it  like  an 
old  friend. 

If  the  grocer  asks  you  to  try  something  else,  you  ask,  "Why?"  You  say, 
"I  like  this  and  don't  want  to  change."  If  he  urges  you,  you  think  he  is  doing  so 
(and  he  probably  is)  because  he  makes  more  profit  on  the  other.  And  that  isn't  to 
your  interest. 

It's  perfectly  true  that  he  may  have  something  of  as  good  value,  that  he  can 
sell  you  at  less  price,  but  you  have  never  heard  of  it  before — anyhow  you  like  what 
you  have  and  don't  care  to  change. 

He  might  have  it  in  a  bin — bulk  goods — or  he  might  label  it  his  "A-l  Grade." 
And  you  might  try  it  once  and  like  it — but  somehow  imagine  it  seemed  to  taste 
different  the  next  time. 

Whereupon  you  would  think  that  perhaps  he  had  changed  the  mixture  in 
that  bin,  a  little  bit — the  price  of  one  of  his  blends  might  have  gone  up  on  him — or 
he  might  have  been  unable  to  get  exactly  what  he  wanted  and  had  to  change.  But 
as  it  was  still  his  "A-l  Grade"  he  didn't  change  the  label. 

And  so  you  continue  to  buy  package  goods — the  ones  that  "make  good" 
with  you  the  "first  time" — because  you  find  that  a  given  brand  sold  you  back  of  a 
given  label  will  be  always  the  same  as  before  all  the  way  through. 

But  here's  something  you  didn't  know: 

It  cost  the  manufacturer  of  that  coffee  several  times  the  entire  price  of  that 
first  can  you  bought  to  get  you  to  buy  it. 

He  had  been  spending  advertising  money  for  months,  or  perhaps  years,  get- 
ting the  name  of  that  brand  so  frequently  before  you  in  various  ways,  that  when  you 
saw  it  at  your  grocer's  at  a  time  when  you  were  thinking  of  changing — when  some 
other  coffee  had  disappointed  you — you  promptly  recognized  that  brand  as  "widely 
advertised" — and  decided  to  try  it. 


4  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— A  LITTLE  SHARP  TALK 

The  total  amount  he  spends  for  advertising  divided  by  the  number  of  new 
sales  made  to  new  customers,  would  leave  the  manufacturer  several  times  the  price 
"in  the  hole" — if  those  customers  didn't  come  back  time  after  time.  And  that's  why 
you  find  this  coffee  always  the  same. 

The  manufacturer  couldn't  begin  to  afford  to  vary  it  by  the  flavor  of  one 
berry.  You  might  stop  "coming  back" — as  you  did  with  some  other  man's  when 
you  first  tried  this  one's.  And  when  it  costs  him  the  price  of  three  or  four  cans 
to  "get  you  started"  he  can't  afford  that. 

That's  the  reason  why  you  can  depend  on  advertised  goods.  That's  why  you 
get  the  "package  goods  habit."  Because  it  pays  everybody  concerned,  including 
most  essentially  you,  on  whose  satisfaction  the  whole  structure  depends. 

The  Oft-Propounded  Query,  "Who  Pays  for  the  Advertising?" 

Advertising  is  part  of  selling  cost.  It  is  strictly  a  proportionate  charge.  If 
it  costs  thirty  dollars  to  sell  ten  sewing  machines,  the  cost  on  each  is  three  dollars ; 
but  if  it  costs  fifteen  thousand  dollars  to  sell  ten  thousand  machines  the  cost  is  one 
dollar  and  a  half  on  each.  If  the  advertising  is  successful  it  sells  such  a  large  num- 
ber at  once  that  it  not  only  reduces  the  selling  cost  but  the  manufacturing  cost,  all 
through  the  purchase  of  material,  the  making  and  every  other  factor. 

The  query  is  often  heard,  regarding  some  widely  advertised  goods,  and  espe- 
cially if  they  are  successfully  advertised  goods,  "Who  pays  for  the  advertising?" 

The  question  is  foolish.  You  pay  for  it,  if  you  buy  the  goods,  but — you  pay 
less  for  the  goods  than  if  they  were  not  advertised. 

If  a  taxicab  charges  forty  cents  a  mile  for  one  passenger,  or  three  dollars 
for  three  passengers  for  a  five-mile  trip,  do  you  ask,  "Who  pays  the  three  dollars?" 
The  three  passengers  chip  in,  glad  to  save  a  dollar  apiece. 

That  is  what  happens  in  successful  advertising.  You  can  rest  assured  that  if 
a  manufacturer  advertises  continuously  on  a  large  scale  it  is  successful,  or  he  couldn't 
keep  it  up,  and  the  goods  do  give  the  purchaser  good  value  or  the  advertising  would 
not  be  successful  and  would  not  be  continued. 

Successful  advertising  enables  a  manufacturer  to  offer  better  goods  at  re- 
duced cost  of  production  and  reduced  cost  of  selling,  and  prosper  on  a  small  profit. 
It  enables  you  to  know  what  you  are  getting  and  that  you  secure  good  value  and 
uniform  quality  for  your  money. 

This  is  the  magic  of  it  and  your  reason  for  buying  advertised  goods. 


ON  FURNITURE   AND  DECORATION 

To  the  Home-Maker: 

Permit  us  to  say  here,  briefly,  that  you  should  if  possible  start  your  "home- 
making,"  by  all  means,  with  a  comfortably  furnished  place.  This  is  investment, 
not  expense.  Insofar  as  your  purse  permits  fix  your  quarters  up.  Make  no  hesita- 
tion to  patronize,  if  need  be,  the  "installment  house"  of  reliability.  It  is  easier  to  pay 
a  small  sum,  weekly  or  monthly,  on  goods  bought  and  in  use,  rendering  your  life 
more  comfortable  and  economical,  than  to  try  to  "board"  and  at  the  same  time  set 
aside  those  same  funds  into  a  sum  with  which  to  "set  up  later." 

Strain  a  point  and  attain  this  if  you  can.  It  saves  money,  nerves,  health  in 
the  end,  and  yields  comfort  and  content  at  once. 


Importance  of  Studying  Household  Questions 

(From  Selection  of  Household  Equipment,   Year  Book  of  Department  of    Agriculture) 

A  generation  ago  such  a  subject  might  have  been  thought  beneath  the  dignity 
of  scientific  investigation,  but  the  last  few  years  have  seen  a  great  change  in  this 
respect.  The  way  in  which  our  homes  are  run,  or,  in  more  technical  terms,  the 
science  of  home  economics,  is  now  in  much  the  position  that  scientific  agriculture 
was  in  twenty  or  thirty  years  ago.  The  leaders  had  then  shown  that  science  can 
improve  crops,  and  some  of  the  more  progressive  farmers  were  giving  the  new  ideas 
a  practical  test,  but  many  of  the  rank  and  file  were  still  doubtful  whether  it  was 
worth  while.  Few  farmers  of  today,  however,  would  care  to  go  back  to  the  days 
before  experiment  stations  and  fertilizer  control.  The  fact  that  the  problem  of  mak- 
ing the  home  as  efficient  as  possible  includes  so  many  different  kinds  of  questions 
will  make  necessary  a  great  deal  of  study  along  many  different  lines,  just  as  agricul- 
ture has  included  problems  as  different  as  those  of  insect  pests  and  cheese-making. 
In  solving  these,  every  intelligent  farmer,  who  has  studied  them  on  his  own  farm,  has 
done  his  part  as  well  as  the  special  investigators  in  the  laboratories.  In  the  same  way 
every  intelligent  housekeeper  who  studies  the  household  problems  of  cooking,  clean- 
ing and  furnishing  and  tries  to  solve  them  with  the  help  of  both  practical  experience 
and  scientific  information  hastens  the  day  when  household  management  can  be  as 
accurately  planned  as  that  of  the  factory  and  the  farm. 

Planning  and  equipping  a  home  in  an  accurate  and  systematic  way  does  not 
mean  that  it  should  not  have  any  individuality.  On  the  contrary,  while  the  prin- 
ciples which  govern  a  wide  choice  of  furnishings  are  the  same  for  all  kinds  and  con- 
ditions of  houses  and  families,  the  articles  actually  chosen  in  accordance  with  these 
principles  would  vary  just  as  much  as  the  house  and  the  families  for  which  they  are 
intended.  Whether  ones  house  is  large  or  small,  things  should  be  chosen  to  fit  act- 
ual needs,  and  to  fill  them  in  the  way  most  economical  of  money,  labor  and  materi- 
als, and  as  far  as  possible,  to  give  pleasure  as  well.  If  the  house  or  the  family  is 
large,  different  things  will  seem  necessary,  convenient,  economical  and  suitable, 
from  those  which  would  answer  the  requirements  if  there  were  less  space  or  fewer 
persons  to  be  provided  for.  The  size  of  the  income  also  influences  choice,  but  the 
fact  that  one  cannot  pay  high  prices  does  not  mean  that  one  must  always  put  up 
with  inconvenient  and  unattractive  things.     A  table  of  easy-working  height  prob- 

5 


6  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— FURNITURE  AND  DECORATION 

ably  costs  no  more  than  one  too  high  or  too  low,  nor  would  making  wooden  blocks 
to  set  under  the  legs  of  a  low  one  be  an  impossible  expense;  yet  a  difference  of  a 
few  inches  may  mean  the  difference  between  working  easily  and  getting  tired  every 
day.  Increasing  the  convenience  of  working  by  such  simple  means  as  moving  a 
table  or  stove  or  rearranging  the  kitchen  cupboards  or  kitchen  cabinet  may  make  a 
noticeable  difference  in  the  number  of  movements  necessary  for  the  daily  work,  and 
this  saving  of  energy  not  only  lessens  the  labor  but  also  prevents  the  irritation  which 
an  intelligent  person  naturally  feels  at  wasting  effort. 

As  far  as  the  element  of  pleasure  or  beauty  is  concerned  it  is  the  necessary 
things  rather  than  special  ornaments  which  make  the  greatest  difference  in  the 
attractiveness  of  the  home.  Comfortable  furniture  of  good,  plain  design  and  har- 
monious colors  on  the  walls  and  floors  are  more  necessary  to  make  a  home  restful 
and  pleasant  than  many  pictures  and  much  bric-a-brac.  Fortunately  it  need  not  cost 
any  more  to  get  these  necessary  things  in  satisfactory  forms  than  in  poor  ones, 
though  it  may  mean  choosing  more  slowly  and  carefully. 

If  the  best  equipped  house  is  the  one  in  which  all  its  features  and  furnish- 
ings are  most  completely  suited  to  the  needs  of  the  occupants,  the  standard  for  every 
family  must  be  adapted  to  such  individual  peculiarities  as  the  location  of  the  house, 
the  amount  of  the  family  income,  the  size  of  the  family,  and  their  different  occupa- 
tions and  interests.  Judged  by  this  standard,  a  woman  who  with  limited  means  has 
made  a  convenient,  comfortable  and  attractive  home  out  of  an  unpromising,  incon- 
venient farmhouse  has  shown  greater  ability  than  one  who  with  the  help  of  an 
expensive  decorator  has  obtained  a  good  effect  in  a  house  equipped  with  all  mod- 
ern improvements. 

Modern  Housekeeping  Appliances  and  Labor  Savers. 

Indulge  as  liberally  as  you  can  in  practical  modern  devices.  Strain  several 
points  to  include  these  in  your  equipment.  They  are  doubly  "investment."  We 
cannot  urge  you  too  strongly  to  go  in  at  once  for  many  of  the  modern  electric, 
gas  (or  oil)  devices,  vacuum  or  other  cleaners — good  ones — fireless  and  other  spe- 
cial cookers  and  cooking  utensils  and  kitchen  and  laundry  and  bath  articles  of  merit. 

They  save  labor  and  time — which  means  that  they  add  to  your  (or  your 
employe's)  actual  money  value — and  to  your  own  nerve  and  health  value  as  a  wife 
and  companion,  or  mother. 


SELECTION  OF  HOUSEHOLD  EQUIPMENT 

(Extracts  from  Bulletin  of  above  title  from 
Year  Book  of  Department  of  Agriculture  for  1914) 

In  equipping  her  home,  the  housekeeper  should  be  guided  by  the  same  prin- 
ciples that  would  be  followed  in  the  selection  of  equipment  for  any  other  workshop, 
and  should  choose  furnishings  and  tools  which  will  make  it  possible  for  her  to  carry 
on  her  various  household  tasks  with  the  least  waste  of  time,  work  and  materials. 
A  house  should  be  equipped  for  efficiency  in  housework  just  as  carefully  as  a  mod- 
ern shoe  factory  is  equipped  for  making  shoes.  In  such  a  factory  lighting,  heating, 
ventilation,  sanitation,  etc.,  are  as  carefully  considered  as  the  machinery,  and  these 
matters  of  hygiene  are  even  more  important  in  the  home,  which  is  not  merely  a 
workshop  but  also  a  place  in  which  to  rest  and  recuperate.  Since  a  home  is  even 
more  than  that,  and  serves  also  as  the  material  setting  for  the  life  of  the  family, 
other  points  must  be  considered  which  have  little  or  nothing  to  do  with  efficiency 
in  a  factory.  It  is  certainly  as  important  in  a  home  to  provide  for  comfort  and 
wholesome  enjoyment  as  for  cooking  and  cleaning,  eating  and  sleeping. 

Planning  before  Buying. 

Haphazard  buying  is  always  extravagant  and  nowhere  more  so  than  in  con- 
nection with  house  furnishings.  There  is  such  a  bewildering  variety  of  things  to  be 
used  in  a  house  that,  unless  the  housekeeper  keeps  a  clear  idea  of  what  she  wishes 
most  and  plans  her  buying  carefully,  she  will  find  herself  getting  things  which, 
though  useful,  are  not  the  most  useful,  or  are  not  the  best  adapted  to  her  particular 
needs. 

In  order  to  buy  in  accordance  with  a  definite  plan  she  must  often  steel  her- 
self against  the  allurements  of  bargain  counters  or  of  beguiling  salesmen,  not  be- 
cause the  wares  they  offer  are  not  intrinsically  good  or  cheap,  but  because  they  may 
not  be  what  she  really  needs  most.  In  choosing  labor-saving  devices  it  is  a  good 
rule  to  give  the  preference  to  those  which  save  heavy  work  and  which  lighten  tasks 
most  frequently  performed.  A  machine  for  washing  clothes  saves  more  bodily 
energy  than  a  patent  roasting  pan,  and  a  meat  chopper  is  used  more  often  than  a 
device  for  stoning  cherries. 

But  if  a  family  really  wishes  its  home  to  be  something  more  than  a  place  to 
eat  and  sleep  in,  it  ought  to  plan  as  deliberately  for  increasing  the  production  of 
comfortable  and  profitable  leisure,  pleasant  social  intercourse  and  an  intelligent 
interest  in  things  outside  of  its  material  needs  as  for  mere  food,  clothing  and  shelter. 
Since  we  must  have  dishes  to  eat  from,  we  might  as  well  have  them  in  attractive 
shapes  and  patterns  and  color,  especially  as  good-looking  ones  do  not  necessarily 
cost  more  than  others.  The  more  any  article  that  is  used  in  the  home  includes  all 
three  elements  of  necessity,  convenience  and  beauty,  the  more  efficiently  will  it 
serve  its  purpose. 


Household  Pi;Scbec)ule 


Have  a  weekly  program.  Systematize  your  time,  follow  the  system,  and 
get  more  done  in  less  time,  and  have  your  leisure  together  instead  of  in  snatches. 
Lay  out  an  outline  for  the  week — to  suit  your  own  needs  and  conditions — write  it 
down.  Lay  out  each  day,  so  far  as  you  can,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  week.  Do 
it  mentally,  if  not  on  paper — but  you  follow  it  better  if  on  paper.     Adopt  system. 


HOUSEHOLD  ACCOUNTS 

Every  housekeeper  should  "keep  books."  There  is  no  better  aid  to  thrift 
and  economy  than  an  absolute  knowledge  of  what  money  goes  for.  It  enables  one 
to  readjust,  from  month  to  month,  cutting  down  on  the  less  needful  to  supply  the 
more  essential  without  discomfort  or  real  deprivation.  Here  is  a  simple  and  effect- 
ive household  accounting  system,  with  a  page  to  illustrate  it. 

Get  a  loose-leaf  journal,  or  what  is  known  as  a  "trial  balance"  book  (six  or 
more  columns  for  figures),  or  use  any  blank  book,  ruling  the  columns  yourself. 
Write  in  the  headings  for  the  departments  for  the  expenses  of  which  you  want  to 
keep  separate  account,  and  make  your  entries  daily  in  the  "cash"  columns.  Once 
a  week  carry  out  the  totals,  or  the  separate  items  of  the  amounts,  into  the  distribu- 
tion columns,  that  is,  the  department  columns  to  which  they  belong.  Once  a  month 
close  the  account  and  carry  down  your  totals.  You  can  see  at  a  glance  the  cost  of 
each  housekeeping  department.  This  enables  you  to  compare  the  totals  from  month 
to  month  and  the  more  intelligently  rearrange  your  expenditures. 

9 


MONTHLY  SUMMARY  SHEET  FOR  HOUSEHOLD  ACCOUNTS  AS  SUGGESTED  IN  "HOME  MANAGEMENT"  BULLETIN 
PUBLISHED  BY  IOWA  STATE  COLLEGE  OF  AGRICULTURE,  AMES,  IOWA 
A  SIMPLE  SYSTEM  OF  HOUSEHOLD  ACCOUNTS 


Year  19 

Receipts 

Expenditures 

Months 

M 

C    X 
BSE- 

to 

'C 

u 

u 
o 

o 

u 

DO 

C 

o 
U 

"o3 

n 

<d 

a 

c 
<e 

Js 

I) 

u 

§ 

V 

Is 

ts 

o 

n 

CO 

cu 

C 

u 
in 

CU 
lu 

3 

1 

3 

u. 

c 

'5  » 
|1 

-o 

C    V 

-a 
c 

tO    to 

5  !5 

u 

<d    jj 

b.  *- 

3    cu 

CO    4-> 

c  c 

-a 

c 

a) 

to 

4-1 

e 
u 

E 

<u 

D 

CO 

CU 

C 
CO 

CO 

bO 

c 
*> 

as 
CO 

January 

February 

March 

April 

May 

June 

July 

August 

September 

October 

November 

December 

Totals 

- 

*Should  spend 

*  According  to  budget  percentages. 


SAMPLE   MONTHLY 

ACCOUNT 

HOUSEHOLD  ACCOUNTS 

Month  of  January  1918 

„  CASH 

Distribution  of  Disbursements 

Re- 

Paid 

Rent,     |    Food, 

Apparel 

Furnish- 

Laundry 

Emer- 

Miscel- 

Date 

Item 

ceived 

out 

etc. 

etc. 

in 

5S 

and  Help 

gency 

lan 

eous 

Jan. 

1 

Cash  left  from  December 

32 

.80 

January  Allowance 

200 

.00 

Paid  Rent  January 

42 

.50 

42 

.50 

December  Gas  and  Light  bill 

4 

.20 

4 

.20 

8 

1  pair  shoes  Self 
Weekly  Grocer  bill 
Weekly  Butcher  bill 
Weekly  Milk  and  Butter 

5 
7 
3 

.00 
.50 
.40 
.95 

7 
3 

.50 
.40 
.95 

5 

.00 

9 

Table  for  Kitchen 
Bed  Linens 
Maid's  wages 
Husband's  laundry 

2 
6 
8 
1 

.50 
.25 
.00 
.20 

2 
6 

.50 
.25 

8 
1 

.00 
.20 

12 

Doctor,  Dentist  and  Druggist  bills 
Put  in  Savings  Bank 
Theatre  and  Cab 
2  Tons  Coal 

12 
15 
6 
12 

.00 
.00 
.00 
.50 

12 

.50 

12 

.00 

15 

6 

.00 
.00 

14 

Week's  grocery,  meat,  etc. 
Paid  Taxes 

etc.,  etc. 

12 
20 

.10 
.00 

12 

.10 

20 

.00 

31 

Totals 

Cash  on  hand 

232 
232 

.80 
.80 

159 
73 

232 

.10 
.70 
.80 

59 

.20 

23 

.95 

5 

.00 

8 

.75 

9 

.20 

12 

.00 

41 

.00 

Feb. 

1 

Cash  balance  forward 

73 

.70 

GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD— HOME  MANAGEMENT 


11 


HOME  MANAGEMENT 

(From  Bulletin  under  the  above  title  issued  by  Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture) 


DIVISION  OF  INCOME 

A.  It  has  been  estimated  that  from  one-fourth  to 
one-third  of  the  income  may  be  saved  by 
scientific  management.  Bullock  has  estimated 
that  at  least  one-fifth  of  money  spent  for  food 
is  actually  wasted. 

1 .  By  buying  needlessly  expensive  materials. 

2.  By  careless  storing  of  goods. 

3.  By  failure  to  select  according  to  season. 

4.  By  waste. 

5.  By  poor  preparation  of  food. 

6.  By  badly  constructed  ovens. 

B.  If  the  home  maker  would  conduct  her  business 

along  the  lines  suggested,  by  careful  study  of 
good  business  principles,  she  would  probably 
find  that  she  was  running  her  home  in  a  better 
way  at  less  cost. 

C.  Suggestions  for  division  of  income. 

1.  Knowledge  of  Amount  of  Income. 

a.  Salary. 

b.  Average  income  when  not  salary. 

2.  Use  of  Budget. 

"A  budget  is  a  detailed  plan  of  anticipated  in- 
come and  expenditures  for  some  definite  future 
period  of  time,  as  a  week,  month  or  year;  it  is 
intended  to  control  expenditures  during  that  pe- 
riod." 

"A  budget  is  a  finacial  plan  for  the  future." 

3.  Factors  which  will  influence  budget. 

a.  Size  of  income. 

b.  Size  of  family. 

c.  Locality  of  home. 

4.  Suggested  Division  (for  average  income) 

a.  Food   (25%). 

b.  Clothing    (20%). 

c.  Rent  or  taxes  and  repairs   (15%). 

d.  Operating  expenses    (15%) 

Renewal  of  equipment 

Emergencies 

Help 

e.  Higher  Life  (15%) 

Education 

Religion 

Recreation 

f.  Saving    (10%) 

Money  in  Bank 
Investments 
Life  Insurance 


The  division  just  suggested  will  be  fairly  satis- 
factory for  the  family  having  an  income  of  from 
$1,000  to  $1,200  a  year.  As  the  income  increases 
or  decreases,  the  proportions  spent  in  these  various 
ways  will  be  changed. 

5.    Success   in   Division    of   Income   Depends 
upon: 

a.  Knowledge  of  textiles. 

b.  Ability     to     make    and     repair    gar- 

ments. 

c.  Good  taste  concerning  color,  design 

and  material  for  dress  and  home 
decoration. 

d.  Knowledge  of  laundry  work. 

e.  Knowledge  of  food  values. 

f.  Knowledge  of  food  preparation. 

g.  Ability  to  plan  meals. 

h.  A  thorough  knowledge  of  personal 
hygiene. 

i.  Understanding  of  symptoms  of  dis- 
ease and  knowledge  of  home 
nursing. 

j.  Knowledge  of  disinfectants  and 
cleansers. 

(  I  )    In  care  of  sick. 

(2)  In  disease. 

(3)  In    care    of   bathroom    fix- 

tures. 

(4)  In  care  of  vaults  and  earth 

closets. 

(5)  In  care  of  closets. 

(6)  In  care  of  cellar. 

(7)  In  care  of  refrigerator. 

(8)  In   care  of  food   materials. 

k.  Knowledge  of  wood  finish  and  care 
of  equipment. 

1.     Good  taste  concerning  pictures. 

m.  Good  taste  and  good  judgment  con- 
cerning furniture. 

n.  Good  judgment  concerning  choice 
of  books  and  magazines. 

A  study  of  these  fourteen  elements  of  success  in- 
dicates that  the  home-maker  who  hopes  to  make  a 
genuine  success  of  her  business  must  have  a  thor- 
ough working  knowledge  of: 


Food 

Personal  Hygiene 

Care  of  Children 

Home  Nursing 

Textiles 


Home   Decoration 
Home  Art 
Good  Pictures 
Good  Literature 
Good  Music 


Laundry  Work 


12 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  I.— GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD 


The  quality  of  the  home  depends  not  so  much 
upon  the  amount  of  money  spent  as  upon  the  good 
taste  and  good  judgment  that  prompt  the  spending. 

D.      Laws  of  Expenditure — Ernst  Engel. 

"1.  The  lower  the  income,  the  larger  the  pro- 
portion claimed  by  sustenance. 

"2.  Lodging,  heating  and  lighting  absorb  an  in- 
variable proportion,  whatever  the  income. 

"3.     Clothing  claims  a  constant  proportion. 

"4.  The  larger  the  income,  the  greater  the  pro- 
portion allotted  to  well-being." 


'•         Income 

$750  Amount 
Per  Cent. 

Food   35  $262.50 

Clothing 15  112.50 

Rent  or  Taxes  and  Repairs           15  I  12.50 

Operating  Expenses 15  1  12.50 

Higher  Life    10  75.00 

Saving 10  75.00 

"•       Income 

$1200  Amount 
Per  Cent. 

Food    25  $300.00 

Clothing    20  240.00 

Rent  or  Taxes  and  Repairs            15  180.00 

Operating  Expenses 15  1 80.00 

Higher  Life 15  1 80.00 

Saving     10  120.00 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 


Information  and  Suggestions  in  Convenient    Reference  Form 


CARE  OF  FURNITURE 


To  Polish  Furniture (Cornell  Reading  Course) 

Apparatus:    a  bottle  of  furniture  polish,  a  small 

handful  of  cotton  waste,  and  one  or  two  flannel- 
ette dusters  or  old  soft  cloths. 

Take  a  piece  of  the  cotton  waste  or  an  old  soft 
cloth,  put  some  polish  on  it  and  rub  it  on  the  wood. 
Use  as  little  polish  as  possible,  but  rub  hard  to  re- 
move dirt  and  scratches.  Rub  with  the  grain  of 
the  wood. 

Take  the  rest  of  the  cotton  waste  and  rub  as 
much  of  the  polish  as  possible  off  the  piece  of 
furniture. 

Polish  finally  with  the  flannelette,  rubbing  briskly 
but  lightly  until  the  surface  is  bright  and  there  is 
no  appearance  of  oiliness.  Be  especially  careful  to 
rub  out  corners. 

Burn  all  the  cotton  waste.  Be  careful  about  this 
because  oily  cotton  has  often  caused  a  fire  through 
its  spontaneous  combustion. 

Put  away  the  polish  bottle,  wiping  the  outside 
carefully.  Wash  the  dusters  and  hang  them  up  to 
dry. 

Recipe   for   Furniture   Polish — (Cornell   Reading 

Course) Take   8   oz.   linseed   oil,    Yl   Pmt  vinegar, 

J/2  oz.  alcohol,  J/2  oz.  butter  of  antimony,  J/2  oz. 
muriatic  acid.  Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly, 
and  Keep  in  a  closely  corked  bottle.  This  polisn 
should  not  be  used  on  pianos. 

Other  Simple  Ways  to  Polish  Furniture — Home- 
made polishes  may  be  made  to  work  wonders,  even 
when  the  wood  has  been  without  attention  for  a 
long  time. 

Only  the  thinnest  kind  of  polishes  should  be 
used  on  highly  varnished  surfaces;  the  object  is 
only  to  clean,  without  injuring,  what  is  almost  an 
enamel. 

There  are  times  when  soap  and  water  should  be 
used,  but  before  these  are  put  on,  polish  or  its  oils 
should  be  rubbed  in  so  the  water  will  not  dull  the 
surface;  otherwise  washing  may  permanently  dam- 
age the  surface. 

Olive  oil  is  less  likely  to  be  sticky,  hence,  should 
waxing  prove  too  difficult,  it  may  be  substituted. 

An  excellent  furniture  polish  is  made  of  equal 
parts  of  boiled  linseed  oil,  vinegar  and  methylated 
spirits. 


A  combination  of  beer  and  beeswax  is  recom- 
mended by  an  English  authority,  who  says  that  first 
the  wood  must  be  washed  and  dried,  then  there 
should  be  ready  a  quart  of  beer  in  which  has  been 
boiled  long  enough  to  blend  a  piece  of  beeswax  the 
size  of  a  pigeon's  egg  and  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
this  mixture  being  allowed  to  cook  but  not  to  get 
cold  before  being  put  on  with  a  soft  furniture 
brush.  The  liquid  dries  on  and  is  then  polished  off 
with  a  soft  cloth. 

It  is  useless  to  merely  polish  over  dirt  or  grease; 
when  these  are  present  use  soap  and  water. 

There  is  no  simpler  way  of  treating  varnished 
mahogany,  oak  or  walnut,  than  with  vinegar  and 
oil,  the  vinegar  being  the  cleanser.  The  ingredi- 
ents may  be  used  in  one  of  two  ways:  by  mixing 
the  two  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  vinegar  and 
two-thirds  olive  oil  or  linseed  oil,  shaking  vigor- 
ously and  rubbing  on  ■with  a  soft  cloth,  afterwards 
polishing  with  a  dry  rag;  or  by  using  the  vinegar 
first  and  later  the  oil  clear,  applying  each  with  a 
different  cloth. 

Waxing — Mahogany  or  old  walnut  has  a  "soft" 
or  wax  finish  and  should  always  be  kept  in  a  state 
of  luster.  For  a  smooth  surface,  such  as  a  table 
top,  white  wax  is  best,  but  it  takes  time  and  muscle 
to  put  on.  The  top  should  be  made  quite  clean  and 
then  shaved  wax  rubbed  in  with  the  palm  of  the 
hand  until  all  has  disappeared  and  the  top  has  an 
even  and  high  finish.  This  is  the  most  difficult  of 
all  polishing  that  can  be  done  at  home,  but  pays  in 
the  end,  for  the  surface  keeps  better,  requires  scrub- 
bing less  often  and  always  looks  bright.  Every  few 
days,  after  being  wiped  over  with  a  soft  cloth,  it 
should  be  rubbed  again  with  the  hand  to  polish. 
Wax  need  not  be  put  on  oftener  than  once  in  three 
weeks  after  the  luster  has  been  attained.  At  first 
once  a  week  will  not  be  too  often. 

To  use  oil  as  a  polish  for  a  dining  table  is  a  mis- 
take, for  no  matter  how  carefully  the  unguent  is 
rubbed  in  some  will  remain  on  the  surface,  and  this 
will  eventually  stain  the  linen. 

Scratches  on  Varnished  Furniture — Remove  from 
varnished  surfaces  by  going  over  carefully  with  a 
camel's  hair  brush  that  has  been  dipped  in  shellac 
varnish  until  they  disappear.  Nothing  should  touch 
the  places  until  they  are  quite  dry. 


13 


14 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  I.— GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD 


Bruises  on  Furniture — Soak  a  large  piece  of 
brown  paper  in  cold  water  for  a  few  seconds;  have 
ready  some  very  hot  irons.  Place  the  folded  paper 
over  the  bruised  place  in  the  wood  and  then  iron 
over  it.  Repeat  this  process  until  the  wood  is 
swollen.  Let  the  wood  dry  for  an  hour  or  so  and 
then  polish  in  the  usual  manner. 

To  Clean  a  Piano  Case — (Cornell  Reading 
Course) — Apparatus:  a  bottle  of  olive  oil,  some 
new  or  perfectly  clean  canton  flannel,  a  perfectly 
clean  chamois  leather  and  a  basin  of  water. 

Wet  a  small  piece  of  the  flannel  and  drop  on  it 
a  few  drops  of  oil. 

Rub,  with  the  wet  flannel,  a  small  section  of  the 
case  at  a  time,  and  immediately  rub  it  thoroughly 
with  a  dry  piece  of  the  flannel  before  proceeding 
to  a  fresh  section. 

Polish  finally  with  the  chamois  or  a  fresh  piece 
of  the  flannel.  Rub  with  the  grain  of  the  wood  and 
breathe  on  it  occasionally  to  help  remove  the  oili- 
ness,  if  any  may  remain.  A  very  little  flour  rubbed 
with  the  grain  of  the  wood  will  also  help  to  remove 
oiliness,  but  its  use  should  not  be  necessary. 

Wash  the  piano  keys  with  a  corner  of  the  flannel 
wet  with  alcohol.  Be  careful,  however,  to  avoid 
touching  the  wood  with  the  alcohol,  as  it  will  ruin 
the  varnish. 

Piano  Keys — When  yellow,  clean  piano  keys,  as 
well  as  all  ivory  articles,  with  alcohol,  rubbed  on 
with  muslin.  If  very  yellow,  use  flannel  moistened 
with  cologne  water. 

To  Mend  Leaking  Vase — Melt  some  paraffine  and 
run  it  over  the  defective  portion  or  side.  As  hot 
water,  which  would  melt  the  paraffine,  is  not  used 
in  a  vase  for  flowers,  this  remedy  is  perfectly  satis- 
factory. 

Gilt  Frames — Wipe  the  frames  gently  with  a  piece 
of  sponge  dampened  with  spirits  of  wine  or  oil  of 
turpentine,  and  allow  them  to  dry  of  themselves. 
If  white  of  egg  is  applied  with  a  small  camel's  hair 
brush  to  fly  specks  on  gilt  frames,  then  rubbing 
gently  with  a  soft  cloth,  the  specks  will  disappear. 

Marble — To  clean  marble,  take  two  parts  com- 
mon soda,  one  part  pumice  stone,  and  one  part 
finely  powdered  salt.  Sift  the  mixture  through  a  fine 
sieve  and  mix  it  with  water,  then  rub  it  well  over 
the  marble  and  stains  will  be  removed.  Rub  then 
with  salt  and  water.      Wash  off  and  wipe  dry. 

To  polish  black  marble  rub  over  with  olive  oil 
and  finish  with  a  clean  chamois  leather. 

Or:  Clean  Marble  with  slices  of  lemon  dipped 
in  salt;  leave  for  an  hour,  then  wash  off  with  soft 
cloth  and  tepid  water. 

Sagged  Cane  Chairs — Cane  seated  chairs  that 
have  sagged  can  be  tightened  in  the  following 
manner.  Wash  them  in  hot  water  and  soap  and 
rinse  in  clear  water.     Dry  in  the  open  air. 

Leather  Furniture — Chairs  and  couches  uphols- 
tered in  leather  will  last  much  longer  if  the  follow- 


ing mixture  is  applied  once  a  month:  One  part 
good  vinegar,  two  parts  boiled  linseed  oil.  Shake 
thoroughly  together.  Apply  a  little  on  a  soft  rag 
and  polish  with  a  silk  duster  or  piece  of  chamois. 
This  cleanses  and  softens  the  leather;  it  is  also  a 
good  polish  for  the  wood  if  applied  thereto  as  well. 
Another  good  method:  Wet  the  leather  first  with 
a  little  hot  milk.  Then  after  melting  some  bees- 
wax in  hot  water  add  to  it  enough  turpentine  to 
give  it  the  consistency  of  a  thin  cream.  Put  this 
mixture  on  the  leather  covers  and  then  polish  them 
with  a  soft  cloth.  Sometimes  milk  alone  is  suffi- 
cient.    Dust  the  leather  thoroughly,  first. 

Brass  Polish — This  is  quite  easy  to  make  at  home. 
Put  I  ounce  soft  soap,  I  ounce  ammonia,  I  ounce 
rottenstone,  in  a  jug.  Pour  on  one  pint  boiling 
water  and  mix  thoroughly.  Some  prefer  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  instead  of  ammonia.  Bottle  when  cold 
and  keep  tightly  corked. 

A  brilliant  polish  may  be  given  to  door  fixtures, 
ornaments,  etc.,  by  washing  them  in  alum  and  lye. 
Make  a  solution  by  boiling  an  ounce  of  alum  in  a 
pint  of  lye  and  wash  the  article  in  it.  Sweet  oil  and 
powdered  rottenstone  vigorously  applied  with  a 
piece  of  soft  flannel  will  clean  brass  ornamented 
pieces. 

To  Clean  Nickel — (Cornell  Reading  Course) — 
Apparatus:  a  bottle  of  ammonia,  a  tablespoonful 
of  whiting  in  a  small  bowl,  a  small  woolen  cloth, 
and  a  larger  woolen  cloth  or  flannelette  duster. 

Stir  enough  household  ammonia  into  the  whiting 
to  make  a  thin  paste,  as  thick  as  milk.  Rub  the 
paste  over  the  nickel,  rubbing  it  well  into  crevices. 
When  dry,  rub  the  whiting  off  and  polish  with  the 
dry  woolen  cloth.  If  stains  still  remain,  it  will  be 
necessary  to  scour  them  off  with  sapolio  or  some- 
thing similar. 

Note: — When  nickel  on  a  stove  has  been  neg- 
lected and  is  very  dirty,  it  is  often  easier  to  clean 
the  pieces  after  they  have  been  unscrewed  and 
taken  off;  but  it  is  necessary  to  look  after  all  the 
bolts  and  screws  carefully  and  see  that  all  are  put 
back  in  their  proper  places. 

Nickel  Polish — Equal  parts  ammonia  and  whit- 
ing make  an  excellent  mixture  for  cleaning  nickel 
furniture  and  ornaments.  It  should  be  applied  to 
the  nickel  with  a  cloth  and  will  produce  a  good 
luster. 

Cleaning  Copper — Mix  half  a  cup  of  flour,  half 
a  cup  of  vinegar  and  two  tablespoons  salt.  It  is  a 
little  harmful  to  the  hands,  but  you  can  avoid  dip- 
ping your  fingers  into  it  by  using  a  big  sponge, 
dipping  only  a  corner  of  the  sponge,  leaving  the 
rest  dry,  or  by  using  a  rag  in  the  same  manner. 
Rub  lightly  if  you  would  have  the  best  results.  Be 
sure  to  dip  the  article  into  cold  water  quickly  and 
dry  thoroughly,  otherwise  it  will  become  green. 


GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD— HOUSEHOLD  HELPS 


15 


Cleaning  Gold — Gold  and  gilt  articles  may  be 
effectively  cleaned  by  washing  them  in  ordinary 
soap  and  water,  and  while  wet  transferring  them  to 
a  bag  containing  some  clean,  fresh  bran  or  sawdust, 
shaking  well  for  a  few  minutes. 

To  Fasten  Loose  Chair  Rung — Split  the  end  of 
the  rung  slightly  and  insert  the  end  of  a  small 
wooden  wedge,  then  press  the  rung  tightly  in  place. 
The  harder  you  press  the  more  the  wedge  spreads 
the  end  of  the  rung  until  it  becomes  impossible  to 
remove  it. 

Pianos  Catch  Cold — exactly  as  we  do.  They  get 
hoarse  or  have  a  cough  or  stiff  note  or  some  other 
similar  complaint  which  cannot  be  cured  by  home 
remedies  but  require  tedious  and  expensive  doctor- 
ing.     In  order  to  prevent  these  avoidable  ailments 


a  piano  should  be  kept  in  a  moderately  warm  room 
where  the  temperature  is  even — say,  sixty  or  sev- 
enty degrees,  the  year  round,  not  cold  one  day  and 
hot  the  next  The  instrument  should  not,  however, 
be  too  near  the  source  of  heat.  It  should  be  kept 
closed  and  covered  with  a  felt  cloth  when  not  in  use 
for  some  time,  particularly  in  frosty  weather.  Al- 
ways place  the  piano  close  to  but  not  against  an 
inside  wall. 

A  Little  Duster — It  is  difficult  to  keep  wicker  fur- 
niture and  certain  other  furniture  properly  dusted. 
Buy  a  five-cent  dish-washing  mop,  saturate  it  with 
crude  oil  or  cedar  oil  and  allow  it  to  dry.  The 
result  is  a  dustless  duster  that  gets  into  every 
crevice,  is  useful  for  many  kinds  of  dusting  and 
does  not  soil  the  hands. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


16 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  I.— GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD 


FLOORS  AND  FLOOR  COVERINGS 


To    Dust    Hardwood    Floors — (Cornell    Reading 

Course) Apparatus:     a    string    mop.       A    dustless 

mop   may  be  used. 

Dampen  the  string  mop  if  the  floor  is  not  a 
waxed  one.  It  may  be  sprinkled  as  clothes  are  for 
ironing,  or  may  be  held  in  the  steam  of  a  tea  kettle, 
but  it  must  not  be  damp  enough  to  show  wet  on  the 
floor. 

Go  over  the  floor  assigned,  being  careful  that 
every  board  is  rubbed.  It  is  probably  better  to  rub 
along  the  boards  than  across  them. 

Take  especial  care  to  go  under  tables,  desks  and 
like  furniture,  moving  them  when  necessary. 

Wash  out  the  mop  with  soap  and  water  when 
necessary.  Rinse  thoroughly,  wring  dry,  and  shake 
out  well  to  make  it  as  fluffy  as  possible.  Hang  to 
dry  in  the  fresh  air,  or  in  a  warm  place,  with  the 
head  up. 

To  Mop   a  Floor — (Cornell  Reading   Course) 

Apparatus:  mopping  pail,  mop,  mop  wringer, 
soap  solution  and  hot  water. 

Fill  the  pail  three-quarters  full  of  hot  water,  add 
one-half  cup  of  soap  solution,  and  carry  it  to  the 
room  assigned. 

Clear  the  floor  of  the  room  as  far  as  possible. 

Dip  the  mop  in  the  pail,  drain  without  wringing, 
wet  one  section  of  the  floor,  and  rub  it  clean.  Rinse 
the  mop  in  the  pail,  wring  it  tightly,  and  dry  the 
wet  section  thoroughly  before  proceeding  to  wet 
another.  It  may  be  necessary  to  rinse  the  mop 
several  times. 

Begin  at  one  corner  of  the  room  and  work  to- 
ward the  door.      Change  the  water  when  necessary. 

Wash  and  rinse  the  mop,  wring  it  tightly,  and 
hang  it  head  up  to  dry  in  the  fresh  air  if  possible. 

Empty  the  pail,  rinse  pail  and  wringer  before 
putting  them  away,  and  leave  the  tub  clean. 

To  Wax  a  Floor — (Cornell  Reading  Course)  — 
Apparatus:  the  can  of  floor  wax,  a  waxing  flannel, 
a  half  yard  of  heavy  flannel  or  a  piece  of  old 
brussels  carpet,  and  a  weighted  brush. 

The  floor  must  be  clean  and  free  from  dust. 

If  necessary,  stand  the  wax  dish  or  can  in  a  dish 
of  hot  water  in  order  to  soften  the  wax. 

Rub  the  waxing  flannel  on  the  wax  and  put  on 
a  very  thin,  even  layer  of  wax  to  the  floor.  Start 
at  the  corner  farthest  from  the  door  and  do  not 
step  on  the  waxed  part. 

Put  away  the  wax  and  flannel,  and  keep  off  the 
floor  for  at  least  three  hours.  The  polishing  can 
be  done  after  standing  an  hour,  but  is  more  work. 

Fold  the  piece  of  heavy  flannel  twice,  making 
four  layers,  put  it  down  on  the  floor,  put  the 
weighted  brush  on  it,  and  rub  each  board,  with  the 
grain,  until  it  shines.  The  piece  of  carpet  makes 
an  excellent  substitute  for  the  flannel.      The  polish- 


ing can  be  done  on  the  hands  and  knees  without  a 
weighted  brush,  but  is  much  harder  work. 

To  Keep  Carpets  Bright — Sweep  occasionally 
with  a  broom  dipped  in  water  to  which  a  little  tur- 
pentine has  been  added.  Carpets  will  stay  bright 
and  moths  will  not  infest  them. 

To  Clean  a  Carpet — Mix  together  in  a  bottle 
equal  quantity  of  turpentine  and  ammonia.  Put 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  this  into  a  quart  of  water, 
and  with  this  sponge  the  carpet,  after  carefully 
brushing  it.  Only  wash  a  small  piece  of  the  carpet 
at  a  time;  do  not  wet  it  too  much;  rub  it  dry 
with  a  cloth. 

To     Avoid     Moths If    powdered     borax     is     put 

around    the    edge    of    a    carpet    it    will    keep    away 
moths. 

To  Prevent  Carpet  Bugs — Fill  a  sewing  machine 
oil  can  or  bulb  spray  with  turpentine.  Scatter  the 
turpentine  freely  by  means  of  this  in  the  closets,  the 
corners  and  places  where  these  pests  are  likely  to 
be  found. 

To  "Mend  Rugs — To  patch  a  hole  in  a  rug,  lay 
a  piece  of  woolen  under  it  as  a  patch,  and  with  a 
large  embroidery  needle  darn  cotton  in  harmoniz- 
ing colors  over  the  woolen.  It  is  often  possible 
thus  to  cover  a  large  hole  so  it  will  not  show. 
Threads  drawn  from  an  old  brussels  carpet  can  be 
used  for  mending  a  woolen  rug. 

When  Rugs  Slip — Sew  a  strip  of  rubber  on  the 
underside  at  each  end  to  grip  the  polished  floor. 

Rug  Beater — A  discarded  tennis  racquet  may  be 
put  to  use,  being  light  and  strong  and  so  con- 
structed that  it  does  not  destroy  the  goods.  Re- 
move all  the  cords,  keeping  only  the  frame. 

To    Sweep    Matting Sprinkle    the    matting    with 

Indian   meal  and  then   sweep  it  thoroughly,    sweep- 
ing out  the  meal  and  the  dirt  with  it. 

To  Clean  Matting — The  matting  should  be  beat- 
en to  remove  all  dust.  Take  it  out  of  doors  and 
scrub  it  well  with  bran  water,  or  with  water  to 
which  a  small  quantity  of  salt  has  been  added. 
Soap  has  a  tendency  to  turn  matting  yellow,  so 
should  not  be  used.  Rinse  with  cold  water,  rub  dry 
as  possible  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  hang  on  a  line 
to  complete  drying. 

Linoleum — The  following  polish  gives  a  good 
gloss  without  making  linoleum  the  least  bit  slip- 
pery: One  gill  methylated  spirit,  one  pound  shellac; 
mix  together,  and  when  the  shellac  is  thoroughly 
dissolved  apply  to  linoleum  with  a  soft  flannel  and 
the  gloss  will  remain  even  after  the  linoleum  is 
washed.       When    linoleum    begins    to    show    wear. 


GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD— FLOOR  AND  FLOOR  COVERINGS 


17 


paint  the  surface  with  good  quality  floor  varnish 
and  allow  it  a  longer  time  to  dry  than  would  be 
necessary  for  a  wood   floor. 

Inexpensive  Floor  Polish — Take  one  sperm  can- 
dle and  melt,  remove  from  stove  and  add  one  pint 
coal  oil.  Use  with  a  flannel  rag.  This  makes  a 
good  floor  polish  and  answers  the  same  purpose  as 
many  bought  polishes.  Equal  parts  of  coal  oil 
(kerosene)  and  linseed  oil  warmed  and  used  to 
rub  on  hardwood  floors  will  make  them  look  like 
new. 

A    Cheap    Floor   Stain Dissolve    two    ounces    of 

permanganate  of  potash  in  two  quarts  boiling 
water;  if  too  dark  add  more  water  until  desired 
shade  is  obtained.  Apply  with  a  flat  brush;  let  dry 
over  night  and  rub  with  boiled  linseed  oil  or 
varnish. 

Grease  Spots  on  Floors — Do  not  put  hot  water 
on  new  grease  spots  on  floors;  the  water  makes 
the  grease  "set  in."  Use  cold  water  and  soap  or 
soap-powder. 

To  Polish  Floors  and  Woodwork  with  Kerosene 

—  (Cornell     Reading     Course) Apparatus:        The 

kerosene  can,  the  kerosene  plate,  a  kerosene  mitt, 
a  handful  cotton  waste  or  an  old  soft  cloth,  and  a 
soft  woolen  or  flannelette  cloth. 

Put  a  very  thin  layer  of  kerosene  in  the  plate  and 
dip  the  mitt  into  it. 

Rub  a  portion  of  the  wood  hard  with  the  mitt, 
being  careful  to  clean  out  the  corners  thoroughly. 
Immediately  rub  as  much  kerosene  off  the  section 
as  possible  with  the  cotton  waste  or  old  cloth.  Then 
proceed  to  clean  the  next  section. 

When  all  the  wood  has  been  cleaned  and  the 
first  section  has  stood  for  an  hour,  polish  it  finally 
with  the  woolen  cloth.  It  will  be  all  the  better  to 
stand  three  or  four  hours  before  the  polishing. 

Put  away  the  kerosene,  mitt,  plate  and  can,  and 
burn  the  waste. 

Wash  the  polishing  cloth  in  strong  soapsuds, 
rinse  carefully,  and  hang  it  to  dry. 


Note In  all  wood  polishing,    rub  with  the  grain 

of  the  wood. 

To  Clean  Woodwork — (Cornell  Reading  Course) 
— Apparatus:  A  fiber  tub,  two  flannelette  dusters, 
borax,  and  warm  "water. 

Put  a  level  teaspoonful  of  borax  into  the  tub  and 
fill  the  tub  with  warm  water.  The  water  should  be 
comfortably  warm. 

Wash  a  section  of  the  woodwork  with  one  dus- 
ter, and  immediately  rub  dry  with  the  other  dus- 
ter before  proceeding  to  the  next  section. 

When  two  do  this  work  together,  better  pro- 
gress is  made  when  one  washes  and  the  other  dries 
the  wood.  A  step-ladder  is  necessary  for  high 
woodwork. 

When  all  the  wood  is  cleaned,  wash  out  the 
dusters  carefully  and  hang  them  up  to  dry. 

Note A    steel    wire    brush,    such    as    is    used    by 

painters,  will  expedite  the  cleaning  out  of  corners 
and  angles  when  the  woodwork  has  been  badly 
neglected. 

To  Dust  Woodwork — (Cornell  Reading  Course) 
— Apparatus:  One  or  more  damp  flannelette  dust- 
ers. 

Begin  at  one  corner  of  the  room  and  dust  the 
baseboard  of  wainscoting.  Do  the  doors  and 
windows  as  they  come. 

Use  the  dusters  to  wipe  up  the  dust  and  do  not 
shake  them  about.  When  one  duster  becomes 
dusty  enough  to  be  dirty,  take  another.  Go  over 
every  board  of  the  woodwork,  and  be  careful  not 
to  slur  over  the  corners  but  to  take  all  the  dust  out 
of  them. 

When  dusting  stairways  it  may  be  necessary  to 
use  a  long-handled  cornice  brush  in  order  to  reach 
all  parts. 

Woodwork  with  many  panels  is  easily  dusted 
with  a  woolly  stove-mitt,  which  is  kept  for  the  pur- 
pose. 

Wash  out  the  dusters  with  soap  and  water  and 
hang  them  up  to  dry. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


18  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  I.— GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD— WALLS  AND  WALL-PAPER 


19 


WALLS  AND  WALL-PAPER 


Cleaning  Walls — (Cornell  Reading  Course) — 
Apparatus:    A  cornice  brush. 

Close  all  the  doors  of  the  room,  and  cover  pic- 
tures and  other  articles. 

If  the  room  has  a  cornice,  brush  the  dust  out 
carefully. 

Brush  first  the  ceiling,  then  the  walls.  Brush 
gently  so  as  to  gather  the  dust  on  the  brush  rather 
than  to  scatter  it. 

Shake  the  brush  well,  and  then  put  it  away. 

Remove  the  covers  from  the  pictures  and  the 
other  articles  gently,  carry  the  covers  outside  to 
shake,  and  fold  them  before  putting  away. 

Enameled  Walls — Wring  out  a  soft  flannel  in 
tepid  water  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  kero- 
sene. Wipe  the  enameled  surface  with  this  quickly, 
exchanging  the  cloth  for  a  clean  one  often.  Do 
not  scrub;  wipe  lightly.  You  will  be  amazed  at 
the  quantity  of  dirt  that  will  come  off  on  the  flan- 
nel. Do  not  smear  the  wood.  Work  one  direc- 
tion all  the  time,  changing  water  as  it  gets  dirty. 

Soda  for  Cleaning  Walls — Use  two  pails  tepid 
water.  Wet  a  cloth  and  sprinkle  a  little  baking 
soda  on  it,  wash  a  space  that  can  be  easily  reached. 
Rinse  with  clear  water  and  wipe  dry.  Use  the  soda 
sparingly. 

Smoked  Wall — Go  over  wall  first  with  lime 
water  before  putting  on  a  coat  of  paint.  One  coat 
will  be  sufficient  with  this  treatment:  five  cents  of 
lime  dissolved  in  a  pail  of  water  and  put  on  quickly 
with  a  whitewash  brush. 

Putty — When  using  putty  for  filling  in  very  wide 
cracks,  the  inexperienced  person  finds  it  very  diffi- 
cult to  spread  it  evenly.  To  prevent  it  from  crum- 
bling, dip  the  knife  in  coal  oil. 

To  Drive  a  Nail  in  Plaster — Put  the  nail  in  very 
hot  water  until  it  is  thoroughly  heated.  Leave  it 
wet,  and  you  can  drive  it  in  clean  without  breaking 
or  chipping  the  plaster. 

Holes  in  Walls — Holes  in  walls  can  be  stopped 
with  plaster  of  paris,  but  mix  this  with  vinegar  in- 
stead of  water,  or  it  will  harden  so  quickly  it  will 
be  difficult  to  manipulate. 


To  Tighten  Picture  Nails — Saturate  a  bit  of  wad- 
ding with  a  thick  glue,  wrap  as  much  as  possible 
around  the  nail,  and  reinsert  the  latter  in  the  hole, 
pressing  it  home  as  strongly  as  possible.  The  nail 
will  be  held  firmly  in  its  place. 

Scratches  on  Wall-Paper  —  If  wall-paper  is 
scratched  or  rubbed,  moisten  a  scrap  of  the  paper 
that  is  saved,  carefully  scrape  off  the  coloring  mat- 
ter with  thin  knife-blade;  apply  this  to  spot.  When 
dry  the  spot  will  be  hid.  You  could  never  match 
up  other  coloring  matter  so  well. 

To  Mend  Crack  in  Wall-Paper — Tear  out  by 
hand  a  piece  of  paper  like  that  on  the  wall,  a  little 
larger  than  the  hole  or  crack,  and  starch  well.  Use 
a  caster  to  roll  the  edges.  Be  sure  to  tear  out  patch 
by  hand;  with  knife  or  scissors  the  patch  will  show, 
but  put  on  in  this  way  the  patch  cannot  be  de- 
tected. 

Varnished  Wall-Paper  —  Varnished  wall-paper 
may  be  wiped  with  a  mixture  of  paraffin  and  warm 
water.  Half-pint  paraffin  to  a  bucket  of  water. 
Use  a  soft  flannel  cloth,  wrung  fairly  dry,  and  pol- 
ish with  a  piece  of  cheesecloth. 

Grease  Stains  on  Wail-Paper — To  remove,  mix 
pipe-clay  with  water  to  the  consistency  of  cream, 
spread  over  the  marks,  allow  to  remain  for  two 
days,  then  remove  with  a  stiff  brush  and  the  stains 
will  have  disappeared. 

Ordinarily  wall-papers  may  be  cleaned  with 
dough,  or  rubbed  with  a  dry  cloth  only. 

To  Remove  Wall-Paper  from  Walls — Use  a  white- 
wash brush  and  a  pail  of  warm  water  and  get  a 
paper  scraper,  which  can  be  purchased  at  five-and- 
ten-cent  stores.  Dip  tip  of  brush  in  water  and  go 
over  wall  quickly  so  as  to  keep  water  as  much  as 
possible  from  running  to  floor.  Get  over  the  entire 
side  of  wall  with  wet  brush,  let  paper  stand  a  few 
minutes,  then  go  over  it  again  and  scrape  with 
scraper.  Sometimes  after  paper  is  thoroughly 
soaked  you  can  take  hold  and  strip  the  most  of  it 
off.  If  papers  are  pulpy  you  have  to  scrape  them 
all  off.  When  one  side  is  partly  off  wet  another, 
keeping  it  well  soaked  ahead  of  you. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


20 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section   I.— GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD— CURTAINS,  SHADES,  CUSHIONS 


21 


CURTAINS,  SHADES,  CUSHIONS 


Window  Curtains — It  is  never  a  mistake  to 
select  neat  lawn,  scrim,  net,  muslin  or  linen  for 
window  curtains.  They  should  come  to  the  sill 
and  may  be  any  length  hanging  from  the  top,  from 
the  middle  sash,  a  quarter  from  the  top,  anywhere 
deemed  best. 

If  the  casing  is  very  narrow,  the  rod  on  which 
they  are  hung  should  be  placed  below  the  brackets 
for  the  shades,  so  that  the  shades  can  be  pulled 
over  the  curtains  to  the  room  side.  The  curtains 
can  be  shirred  on  a  rod  with  or  without  a  ruffle 
above. 

They  may  hang  straight,  as  at  casements  always, 
or  they  may  be  held  in  place  at  the  bottom  by  a 
similar  rod,  as  on  French  windows. 

A  Short-Cut  in  Curtains — So  many  housekeepers 
use  dotted  Swiss  for  sash  curtains  that  this  plan 
for   saving  some  yards   of  Swiss  will   be   welcomed: 

The  average  window  requires  two  yards  of  Swiss 
one  yard  wide.  One  and  a  half  yards  used  with 
selvage  top  and  bottom  instead  of  at  the  sides  saves 
half  a  yard  on  each  window.  Besides  this,  not  only 
is  the  money  saved  but  time  is  saved  in  making. 

Turn  a  hem  at  the  top  that  is  just  large  enough 
to  cover  the  rod  and  make  as  large  a  hem  at  the 
bottom  as  the  window  will  allow;  the  curtains,  also, 
always  hang  straight. 

To  Keep  Curtains  Clean — In  bedrooms  where  the 
curtains  hang  straight  from  the  poles  and  where 
the  windows  are  open  at  night,  sew  a  brass  ring  on 
the  side  of  each  curtain  and  put  a  screw  eye  up 
high  enough  on  the  side  of  the  casing  so  by  loop- 
ing up  the  curtains  they  are  kept  cleaner  and  are 
less  mussed,  also  let  in  more  air.  Take  off  the 
rings  when  the  curtains  are  washed. 

To  Clean  Tapestry  Curtains — Take  the  curtains 
down,  brush  them  well  and  then  rub  all  spots  and 
soiled  parts  with  magnesia.  Hang  these  out  on  a 
line  on  a  fine,  windy  day;    finally  shake  them. 

Cleaning  Window  Shades — After  the  summer 
light-colored  window  shades  are  usually  soiled   and 


often  fly-specked.  Remove  the  latter  by  rubbing 
lightly  with  the  very  finest  sandpaper.  Then  clean 
by  rubbing  very  gently  with  a  soft  cloth  wrung  out 
of  a  mixture  of  one  pint  hot  water  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  benzine  (keeping  the  benzine  away 
from  the  fire).  Dry  by  wiping  with  a  clean,  soft 
cloth. 

To  Dust  Window  Shades — (Cornell  Reading 
Course) — Apparatus:  A  step-ladder  and  a  flannel- 
ette duster. 

Place  the  ladder  firmly  so  that  it  is  easy  to  reach 
the  spring  end  of  the  roller. 

Roll  the  shade  up  as  far  as  possible  and  take  it 
down  from  the  window.  If  it  will  not  roll  all  the 
way  up  before  you  take  it  down,  roll  it  up  before 
coming  down  from  the  ladder;  otherwise  the  shade 
is  likely  to  wrinkle  and  be  damaged. 

Unroll  carefully  over  a  table  or  out  on  the  floor. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  to  prevent  the  shade  from 
wrinkling. 

Roll  up  slowly,  dusting  each  side  as  it  is  rolled. 

Replace  the  shade  on  the  window,  and  test  to  see 
whether  it  rolls  up  and  down  properly.  If  it  does 
not  roll  quickly  to  the  middle  of  the  window,  take 
it  off  again  and  roll  it  up  before  replacing.  If  it 
will  not  pull  down  to  the  bottom,  pull  it  down  as  far 
as  possible,  take  it  off  again,  and  unroll  it  to  the 
length  of  the  window  before  replacing. 

Dust  the  middle  ledge  of  the  window  before  tak- 
ing away  the  step-ladder. 

To  Renew  Window  Shades — Old  window  shades 
may  be  painted  and  will  look  like  new.  Lay  them 
on  the  floor  on  newspaper  and  paint  one  side. 
When  dry,  paint  the  other.  They  may  be  painted 
white  on  the  outside  and  green  on  the  inside.  The 
paint  covers  all  cracks  and  worn  places. 

Sofa  Cushions — Cut  a  roll  of  cotton  in  small 
squares  and  heat  in  a  pan  in  the  oven,  leaving  it 
there  for  half  an  hour.  Do  not  let  the  cotton 
scorch.  Every  square  will  swell  to  twice  its  size  and 
will  be  light  and   fluffy  for   filling  for  cushions. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


22  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  I.— GENERAL  HOUSEHOLD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


Simple  Terms  In  Electricity 

Electrical  terms  have  puzzled  many  housekeepers  since  the  use  of  the  cur- 
rent has  become  common  for  cooking  as  well  as  cleaning  and  lighting. 

Electric  current  is  like  a  stream  of  water.  The  size  of  the  steam  may  vary 
as  do  water  pipes,  and  the  word  used  to  designate  the  size  of  an  electric  stream  is 
ampere.  Thus,  an  electric  iron  requires  a  large  stream,  five  amperes;  a  vacuum 
cleaner  a  smaller  stream,  one  ampere;  while  a  large  range  with  all  the  switches  on 
will  require  a  still  larger  stream  and  may  take  from  fifteen  to  twenty  amperes. 
Thus,  only  the  devices  requiring  five  amperes  and  under  are  safe  to  use  on  the 
lighting  circuit,  which  carries  only  that  comparatively  small-sized  stream. 

Another  common  term  is  the  volt.  This  means  the  pressure  of  the  stream 
of  electricity.  With  the  water  supply  we  speak  of  the  pressure  at  the  faucets  as 
thirty  pounds  or  sixty  pounds,  etc.  With  electricity  we  speak  of  the  pressure  as 
1  1  0  volts  or  1  20  volts,  etc.  Thus  the  voltage  or  pressure  is  determined  by  your 
local  electric  company,  while  the  manufacturer  decides  the  size  of  the  stream  or 
amperage  required  for  his  device. 

The  volt  is  the  actual  amount  of  electricity  used.  It  is  measured  by  gallons 
or  cubic  feet  in  the  case  of  water.  Thus  we  would  say  that  the  faucet  runs  fifty 
gallons  an  hour,  while  with  electricity  we  would  say  the  iron  consumes  five  hun- 
dred watts  an  hour.  Because  the  watt  is  so  small  a  quantity,  all  electric  lighting 
companies  use  one  thousand  watts  or  the  kilowatt  as  their  basis  of  measurement, 
and  the  cost  of  electricity  is  therefore  so  many  cents  for  a  kilowatt  used  one  hour. 

Once  these  terms  are  understood  it  will  be  a  simple  matter  for  any  housekeeper  to 
determine  the  exact  cost  of  using  any  one  of  her  electrical  appliances.  This  method  is  cor- 
rect for  the  less  common  direct  current  (D.C.)  and  approximately  correct  for  the  oftener 
used  alternating  current  (A.C.).  Multiply  the  pressure  or  voltage,  by  the  size  of  the  stream, 
or  the  amperage,  and  you  have  the  amount  of  electricity  used,  or  the  watts.  Thus  an  iron 
stating  on  the  name-plate  "110  volts,  5  amperes,"  uses  550  watts  and  costs  at  a  ten  cents 
a  kilowatt-hour  rate  just  five  and  one-half  cents  an  hour  to  run  it.     At  a  five  cent  rate  it  costs 

23 


24 


THE   HOME-KEEPING   BOOK— Section   II.— GENERAL  UTILITY 


approximately  three  cents  for  the  same  service.      On  all  electric  appliances  you  will  find  the 
volts  and  amperes  plainly  stated. 

Most  household  users  of  electricity  have  an  unreasoning  fear  of  "blown  fuse"  when 
really  they  should  consider  the  fuse  in  an  electrical  system  like  the  safety  valve  in  the  steam 
boiler.  If  anything  goes  wrong  the  fuse  "blows"  automatically  turning  off  the  current.  This 
is  accomplished  by  means  of  a  small  wire  within  the  fuse  which  melts  with  some  slight  noise 
which  is  called  "blowing."  When  you  have  blown  a  fuse,  do  not  be  frightened,  for  the 
safety-valve  has  worked  and  no  harm  has  been  done.  Notify  the  company  and  a  new  fuse 
will  be  put  in.  Find  out  the  cause  of  the  trouble.  Remember  that  a  fuse  must  be  large 
enough  to  carry  the  largest  stream  of  electricity  that  you  expect  to  use  at  one  time,  and  state 
very  clearly  to  the  repair  man  sent  to  you  all  the  electric  devices  you  were  using  at  the 
time  the  fuse  blew.  Thus,  if  the  toaster  and  percolator,  each  consuming  five  amperes,  to- 
gether with  the  dining-room  lights,  were  all  in  operation  and  the  chafing-dish  consuming 
another  five  amperes  was  then  started,  a  blown  fuse  would  immediately  result  provided  the 
fuse  was  a  fifteen  ampere  one,  because  the  stream  of  electricity  would  be  too  large  and  the 
safety-valve  would  "blow,"  while  if  the  fuse  had  been  a  twenty-five  ampere  one,  there 
would  have  been  no  necessity  for  the  safety-valve  to  operate.  Be  very  sure,  however,  that 
the  fuse  is  not  larger  than  the  stream  of  electricity  the  wiring  can  carry  safely. 


THE  CARE   OF  LINENS 

It  pays  to  have  more  bed  linen  than  just  enough 
for  a  change.  Your  linens  will  stay  in  good  con- 
dition longer  and  you  will  enjoy  the  pleasure  of 
using  well-aired,  sweet  sheets  and  pillow  cases 
from  your  linen  closet,  instead  of  having  to  put 
on  your  bed  those  just  returned  from  the  laundry 
with  more  or  less  of  a  laundry  odor. 

There  must  be  extra  linens,  too,  fpr  guests  or 
sickness;  but  without  order  in  the  closet  there  will 
be  little  satisfaction  in  the  good  supply.  To  pre- 
vent the  wear  and  tear  being  too  great  on  certain 
pieces,  use  the  pieces  from  the  top  of  the  piles, 
slipping  those  just  returned  from  the  laundry  to 
the  bottom  of  the  piles. 

To  keep  tab  on  your  laundry  supply  tack  up  in 
your  closet  a  list  of  what  you  have  and  what  you 
send  out  each  week.  The  articles  being  arranged 
in  neat  piles  can  be  counted  almost  at  a  glance 
when  the  laundry  is  returned.  In  a  large  estab- 
lishment the  supply  for  each  room  or  floor  must  be 
kept  on  separate  shelves  or  in  separate  closets. 

Scent  for  Linens. — English  lavender  is  the  only 
proper  scent  for  bed  linens,  as  it  is  soothing  to  the 
sleeper  as  well  as  sweet  smelling  and  delicious  to 
the  nostrils.  It  is  not  appropriate  for  any  than  bed 
linens,   however. 

THE   DAILY    DUSTING 
(Cornell  Reading  Course) 

Apparatus:  a  cheesecloth  duster,  a  slightly  damp 
flannelette  duster,  a  string  mop,  and  (if  the  room 
has  a  rug  or  carpet)    the  carpet  sweeper. 

Air  the  room,  if  necessary. 

Sweep  the  rug  or  carpet  with  the  sweeper. 

Dust  any  bare  floor  with  the  string  mop. 


Dust  the  window  glass,  window  ledges,  and  all 
outstanding  of  wainscoting,  cupboards,  and  the 
like,  with  the  flannelette  duster,  and  the  chairs, 
tables  and  smaller  articles  with  the  finer  one. 

Use  the  dusters  to  wipe  up  the  dust,  and  do  not 
shake  them  about.  When  one  duster  becomes 
dirty,  take  another. 

Wipe  finger  marks  from  electric-light  button 
plates. 

When  dusting  stairways  it  may  be  necessary  to 
use   the   long-handled    cornice   brush. 

Avoid  letting  soiled  dusters  rest  on  beds,  up- 
holstered furniture,  or  on  brass  or  metal  parts,  and 
like  places. 

Be  careful  to  replace  desk  papers  exactly  as  they 
were  found. 

Arrange  the  window  shades  before  leaving  the 
room. 

Empty  dust,  and  put  away  the  carpet  sweeper. 
Put  away  the  string  mop,  washing  it  if  necessary. 
Wash  the  dusters  and  hang  them  up  to  dry. 

Dustless  dusters  and  mops  may  be  used  instead 
of  dampened  ones. 


THE  CUPBOARD  OR  CLOSET 

Cleaning  (Cornell  Reading  Course). Appa- 
ratus; a  diahpan,  a  scrub  cloth,  a  clean  duster  and 
a   dry   sink  towel. 

Fill  the  pan  half  full  of  soapy  water,  comfortably 
warm. 

Clean  the  top  shelf.  Dust  each  article  and  place 
on  a  lower  shelf  or  other  convenient  place.  Wash 
the  shelf  and  wipe  dry  with  the  sink  towel.  Re- 
place  each   article   belonging   to   the   shelf. 

Clean  the  remaining  shelves,  cleaning  the  bot- 
tom one  last. 


GENERAL  UTILITY— CLEANING 


25 


Closet  Hanging  Space. — A  small  closet  will  hold 
twice  as  much  clothing  without  crushing  if  a  small 
pole  is  fastened  from  end  to  end  and  a  few  inches 
below  shelf,  along  which  you  may  slip  a  number 
of  hangers  upon  which  suits  and  dresses  may  be 
neatly  hung.  Many  more  hangers  may  be  sus- 
pended from  the  pole  than  could  be  crowded  on 
hooks;  besides  you  still  have  the  hook  space  at 
back  and  ends  if  the  closet  is  not  too  close;  the 
clothing  on  the  hangers  does  not   get  so  crushed. 

BED  AND  BEDROOM  SUGGESTIONS 

Dresser  Drawers  that  stick  need  paraffin  or  soap 
on  the  sliding  parts.  Paraffin  will  rub  off  less;  it 
works  into  the  wood  and  keeps  it  smooth. 

Never  Sun  Feather  Beds  or  Pillows.  Air  them 
thoroughly  on  a  windy  day  in  a  cool  place.  Sun 
draws  the  oil  and  gives  feathers  a  rancid  odor. 

All  Mattresses,  used  either  by  children  or 
adults,  should  be  well  brushed  once  a  fortnight. 
Put  in  the  sun  by  open  windows  when  possible. 
In  this  way  the  white  dust  which  comes  from  the 
body  is  disposed  of  and  mattress  disinfected. 

Or,  better  still,  make  a  covering  as  you  would 
for  a  pillow  case  out  of  heavy  unbleached  sheeting, 
to  fit  mattress;  close  the  end  by  sewing  buttons  and 
buttonholes.  This  covering  can  be  removed  from 
time  to  time  and  laundered;  it  should  be  starched 
stiff  to  prevent  dust  from  sifting  through.  It  will 
keep  the  mattress  nice  and  new.  Mattresses,  at 
that,  should  be  brushed  and  aired  when  the  cover 
is  removed. 

Cleaning  Brass  Beds — Wring  out  a  bit  of  flannel 
almost  dry  in  sewing  machine  oil  and  go  over  the 
bedstead  daintly.  It  will  not  dull  the  lustre,  and  it 
will  remove  flyspecks. 

Never  touch  the  brass  without  having  a  cloth 
between  your  hands  and  the  polished  brass;  the 
perspiration  of  the  hand  will  tarnish  it  and  form 
verdigris. 

Never  hang  clothing  you  have  taken  from  your 
body  across  the  brass  rails.  Dust  all  parts  of  the 
bedstead  once  or  twice  a  week  at  least. 

To  renovate  a  shabby  brass  bedstead,  or  one  of 
iron  and  brass,  wash  it  with  soap  and  water,  and 
when  it  is  quite  dry,  clean  the  brass  parts  with  metal 
polish,  polishing  them  well  with  a  soft  velvet  dus- 
ter. Now  varnish  all  over,  both  iron  and  brass, 
with  a  transparent  varnish. 

Such  a  varnish  may  be  made  as  follows:  Put  six 
ounces  bleached  shellac  and  one  pint  methylated 
spirit  in  a  bottle,  and  stand  it  to  one  side  for  a  day 
or  two  until  it  is  dissolved,  shaking  it  occasionally. 
Cork  tightly.  Keep  away  from  fire.  Apply  with  a 
soft  brush. 

CLEANING  THE  BATHROOM 

Cleaning    Bathroom (Cornell   Reading   Course) 

—Apparatus:     Closet  brush,    scrub   cloth,   dry   flan- 
nelette duster  and  string  mop. 


Clean  the  bathtub.  Let  in  a  little  very  hot  water, 
rub  soap  on  the  scrub  brush,  and  wash  all  scum 
deposits  from  the  tub.  Rinse  out  the  tub  and  wash 
the  taps.  See  that  the  outside  is  clean,  and  wipe 
everything  dry  with  the  duster. 

Clean  the  closet.  Raise  the  cover  and  the  wooden 
seat.  Wash  the  bowl  thoroughly  with  the  closet 
brush.  If  necessary  scrub  above  the  water  line 
with  soap,  and  see  that  the  outside  is  clean.  Flush 
the  bowl.  Wash  the  seat  inside  and  out,  also  the 
inside  of  the  cover.  If  necessary,  wash  the  floor- 
slab.      Wipe  everything  dry  with  the  duster. 

Dust  the  floor  with  the  string  mop.  Take  pains 
to  get  the  dust  out  of  the  corners  and  from  under 
the  tub.      Dust  the  chair  and  the  woodwork. 

Wash  the  closet  brush  with  soap  in  the  wash- 
basin, rinse,  shake  thoroughly  and  hang  up  (this 
brush  is  usually  kept  in  an  inconspicuous  corner  of 
the  bathroom). 

Wash  and  wipe  the  basin  taps.  Wipe  off  all  pipes 
below  the  basin  with  the  duster.  If  necessary, 
scrub  the  basin. 

Wash  and  rinse  the  scrub  cloth  and  the  duster 
in  the  basin  and  wring  as  dry  as  possible.  Rinse 
out  the  basin  and  wipe  with  the  duster.  Hang  up 
the  cloths  to  dry.  If  tubs  and  other  appliances 
have  been  neglected  and  are  very  dirty,  it  may  be 
necessary  to  scrub  them  with   kerosene. 

CLEANING   THE   FIRE-PLACE 

Cleaning   Fire-Place (Cornell  Reading   Course) 

Apparatus:   a   stove   apron,    newspaper,    dustpan, 

whisk,    the    blackleading    implements   and    a   duster. 

Spread    the   newspaper   to    protect   the    hearth. 

Brush  the  ashes  from  the  fire  basket  or  andirons, 
and  move  the  basket  or  irons  out  on  the  news- 
paper. 

Brush  the  ashes  down  the  ash-hole;  or  take 
them  out,  if  no  ash-hole. 

Blacken  the  fire  basket  or  andirons,  and  replace 
them. 

Lay  a  fresh  fire  ready  to  light,  using  the  news- 
paper from  the  hearth. 

Brush  up  the  hearth,  dust  the  mantel  and  fire- 
irons. 

Put  away  the  blackleading  implements,  dustpan 
and  other  apparatus,  and  get  a  basin  of  warm 
water,   a  small  scrub  brush  and   some   soap. 

Wash  the  hearthstone,  and  if  necessary  the  fire- 
irons. 

A  fireplace  with  red  bricks  may  have  the  bricks 
reddened   with  the  following   reddening   mixture: 

I  oz.  common  glue,  I  tablesp.  alum,  Yl  lb. 
Venetian  red,    I    lb.  Spanish  brown,    1    gallon  water. 

Dissolve  the  glue  in  the  water  over  the  fire. 
While  hot,  add  the  alum.  Add  the  Venetian  red 
and  Spanish  brown.  If  too  light,  add  more  red 
and  brown;  if  too  dark,  add  water,  a  little  at  a 
time,  until  right.  Mix  well.  Keep  in  a  closely 
corked    bottle.      Apply   with   a    paint    brush. 


26  THE  HOME-KEEPING   BOOK— Section   II.— GENERAL  UTILITY 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


GENERAL  UTILITY— HOUSEHOLD  MISCELLANY 


27 


HOUSEHOLD  MISCELLANY 


HOME-MADE   CEDAR  CHEST 

Get  a  large  pine  packing  box,  hinge  on  the  lid 
and  putty  up  the  cracks,  if  any,  unless  you  can 
get  a  box  without  cracks  made  of  tongue  and 
groove  lumber. 

Buy  a  large  bottle  of  cedar  oil  from  a  druggist 
and  paint  the  interior  of  the  box  thoroughly  with 
the  oil.  Use  it  generously,  let  the  oil  soak  well 
into  the  wood  and  all  crevices.  When  perfectly 
dry,  line  the  box  with  cambric  and  cover  the  out- 
side with  any  preferred  material,  using  ornamental 
brass-head  tacks. 

The  cedar  oil  will  retain  the  strong  odor  for  a 
long  time  and  it  is  as  moth-proof  as  the  cedar 
wood  itself.  But  if  you  want  the  job  even  more 
permanent  you  can  obtain  "cedar-paper"  (paper 
treated  with  cedar  oil  and  also  waxed)  with  which 
you  can  line  the  box  before  putting  in  the  cambric 
lining. 

Cleaning    Lamps (Cornell    Reading    Course) 

Apparatus:  an  old  newspaper,  the  kerosene  can,  a 
damp  flannelette  duster,  lamp  scissors  and  a  dry 
towel. 

Carry  the  lamps  to  a  sink,  or  to  a  table  conveni- 
ent to  the  sink.  Spread  the  paper  and  place  every- 
thing on  it. 

Wash  and  dry  the  lamp  chimneys  as  if  they 
were  tumblers,  set  them  aside  and  put  away  the 
towel. 

Open  up  the  lamp  burner,  screw  up  the  wick, 
trim  off  the  char  with  the  scissors,  and  screw  down 
the  wick  a  quarter  of  an  inch  below  the  brass.  Be 
careful  not  to  drop  the  char  around.  Round  wicks 
must  have  the  char  rubbed  off  with  the  duster. 

Soap  one  corner  of  the  duster  and  rub  carefully 
every  part  of  the  brass  burner;  if  necessary,  polish 
as  directed  for  polishing  brass. 

Fill  each  lamp  nearly  full  of  kerosene.  See  that 
the  burner  is  properly  screwed  on,  and  wipe  the 
body  of  the  lamp  carefully. 

Put  on  the  chimneys  and  set  the  lamps  in  their 
places. 

Wash  the  scissors  and  duster  and  hang  the  duster 
to  dry.  Gather  all  trimmings  and  burn  both  trim- 
mings and  paper.  They  are  not  safe  to  leave 
around. 

Odorless  Lamps  and  Oil  Stoves — The  most  fre- 
quent cause  of  the  disagreeable  odor  from  lamps, 
oil  heaters,  stoves  and  so  on,  is  the  evaporation  of 
a  bit  of  oil  left  on  the  outside. 

If  lamps  or  heaters  remain  a  day  or  two  un- 
lighted  the  oil  will  often  soak  through  the  pores, 
or  will  "climb"  the  wick  and  spread  outside;  they 
should  always  be  carefully  wiped  off  before  using, 
as  well   as  just   after   filling. 


Lamp    Cleaning Take    lamp    wicks    when    new 

and  soak  them  in  good  apple  vinegar.  Do  not 
wring  them  out  but  hang  near  a  stove  or  lay  on  a 
plate  until  dry.  This  treatment  will  double  the 
lighting  power  of  your  lamps  or  lanterns;  also  with 
wicks  prepared  this  way  only  one  cleaning  each 
week  is  necessary,  for  the  wick  will  not  smoke  and 
the  chimney  and  globe  will  not  blacken  around 
the   top. 

To  Save  Gas  Globes — To  avoid  the  flare,  when 
lighting  gas,  from  cracking  globe,  simply  keep  a 
small  hairpin  slipped  over  the  edge  of  the  globe. 
It  is  not  clear  just  why,  but  the  little  wire  hairpin 
does  the  work. 

Picture  Stick — Have  a  smooth,  strong  stick  about 
40  inches  long,  with  a  deep  notch  in  one  end. 
With  this,  pictures  may  be  lifted  from  the  wall  and 
brushed  and  replaced  without  your  climbing  up 
and  down. 

To   Remove   Staple Run   a    nail    through   it   and 

catch  a   claw  hammer  under  nail. 

Disinfect  the  Telephone — The  telephone  should 
be  washed  and  wiped  out  every  few  days,  both  ear 
and  mouthpiece. 

To  Renovate  Sweeper — The  sweeper  brush 
bristles  become  soft  from  long  use  and  do  not 
sweep  up  pieces  as  well  as  when  new  and  stiff.  Put 
a  little  common  baking  soda  in  some  hot  water, 
take  the  brush  out  of  the  sweeper  and  dip  it  up 
and  down  in  this.  Let  it  dry  in  the  sun  and  it  will 
be  like  new.  Hair  bristles  of  any  brush  can  be 
treated  in  the  same  way  with  the  best  of  results. 

At  least  once  a  week  the  sweeper  should  be  thor- 
oughly cleaned  and  the  brush  freed  from  hair  and 

threads.     The  bearing  should  be  frequently  oiled 

the  smallest  amount  being  used;  a  feather  will  be 
easy  for  applying  the   oil. 

Creaking  Hinges — should  be  rubbed  with  a  piece 
of  soap;  oil  spoils  looks  of  the  paint. 

Care  of  Woodwork Tea  water  is  found  an  ex- 
cellent cleanser  for  varnished  woodwork.  To  ob- 
tain this  pour  water  on  used  tea  leaves  and  strain 
through  a  cloth  or  muslin.  The  tea  water  removes 
the  dirt  quite  easily. 

White  paint  should  be  cleansed  with  warm  water, 
using  a  trifle  whiting  on  the  cloth,  then  rinsing 
with  clear  water. 

Clean  flannel  dipped  in  paraffin  oil  will  satis- 
factorily remove  finger  marks  on  polished  or 
painted  wood  if  rubbed  on  for  a  few  minutes.  Wipe 
with  a  clean  cloth  wrung  from  hot  water  to  re- 
move the  odor. 


28 


THE   HOME-KEEPING    BOOK— Section   II.— GENERAL   UTILITY 


To   Clean   Windows (Cornell   Reading   Course) 

Apparatus:    a    high    stepladder,    fiber    tub,    damp 

flannelette  duster,  scrub  cloth,  soft  linen  towel, 
chamois  leather,  ammonia,   and  warm  water. 

Fill  the  tub  half  full  of  warm  water  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  ammonia  or  a  few  drops  of  kero- 
sene. 

Carry  the  ladder  to  the  window,  roll  up  the 
shade  and  take  it  down.  Unroll  it  on  the  floor  or 
over  a  table,  then  roll  it  up,  dusting  both  sides  as 
it  rolls.  (See  Cleaning  Shades,  previous  Section.) 
Stand  it  aside,  marking  to  which  window  it  belongs 
if   more   than   one   is  being   cleaned. 

Dust  the  window,  especially  the  surrounding 
woodwork,  with  the  damp  flannelette  duster. 

Wash  the  glass,  especially  corners,  and  dry  with 
the   linen   towel.      Polish  with   the   chamois   leather. 

Replace  the  shade,  testing  carefully,  and  make 
sure  the  spring  works  properly. 

Wash  out  the  tub,  towel,  cloth  and  duster.  Hang 
the  cloths  to  dry  and  put  everything  else  away. 

If  chamois  leather  is  not  available  use  crumpled 
newspaper  or  tissue;  toilet  paper  is  good. 

The  following  mixture  may  be  used  instead  of 
ammonia  and  water,  but  the  resulting  white  dust 
must  be  carefully  wiped  up:  1  tablespoonful  pre- 
cipitated whiting;  2  tablespoonfuls  household  am- 
monia. 

Care  of  Windows Instead  of  cleaning  the  win- 
dows with  soap  and  water  try  rubbing  them  with  a 
cloth  dipped  in  a  mixture  of  ammonia  and  whiting 
and  then  polish  with  a  clean  chamois.  This  makes 
them  much  brighter  than  soap  and  water. 

To  keep  windows  clean  rub  with  a  cloth  slightly 
moistened  with  paraffin  or  kerosene,  afterwards 
polishing  with  a  dry  soft  duster  or  chamois  leather; 
this  prevents  flies  settling  and  making  marks  on 
the   glass. 

A  cheese  cloth  dampened  with  kerosene  will 
clean  windows  quickly  when  water  cannot  be  ap- 
plied  to   the   glass  without   freezing. 

To  Remove  Rust — from  curtain  rings  or  other 
small  articles,  put  them  in  cloudy  ammonia  for 
half  hour  and  stir  them  around.  If  rusted  points 
of  pins  will  not  push  easily  through  curtains  or 
other  fabrics,  stick  them  in  a  bar  of  soap  and  they 
will  slip  easily. 

To  Mend  a  Wire  Screen — Take  a  piece  of  screen- 
ing large  enough  for  a  patch;  ravel  the  edge  of 
this  patch  by  taking  off  several  wires  on  each  side 
leaving  a  fringe  of  wire  points  an  inch  or  more 
long.  Bend  this  fringe  down  at  right  angles,  put 
the  patch  in  position  and  push  the  bent  fringe 
through.  Bend  the  fringe  in  and  put  it  against  a 
flat  board  and  hammer  it  gently.  The  patch  will 
hold   and   insects   cannot   get   through   at   the  edges. 

Cleaning  Globes — Globes  that  have  become  dis- 
colored   from   smoke   or    otherwise   may  be   cleaned 


in  the  following  manner:  Soak  the  globes  for  about 
an  hour  in  warm  water  with  soda  or  borax  in  it; 
then  add  fresh  warm  water  with  a  few  drops  of 
ammonia  and  wash  well  with  a  soaked  linen  rag. 
This  is  better  than  flannel  as  there  are  generally 
loose  hairs  left  by  flannel  unless  it  is  very  fine. 
Polish  with  soft  linen   rag. 

To  Waterproof  Matches — Dip  them  in  melted 
paraffin.  They  strike  as  well  as  ever  and  are  not 
ruined  by  dampness. 

Wobbly  Candles  in  Holder — If  ends  of  candles 
are  placed  for  a  moment  in  hot  water,  then  pressed 
into  sockets,  they  will  mold  to  size  and  shape  and 
thereafter  sit  snug  in  the  holders. 

Candles    Will    Last    Longer if    given    a    coat    of 

colorless  varnish;  the  wax  will  not  run  down 
through — which  is  an  item  of  appearance  as  well 
as  economy. 

Bayberry  Candles — To  make  bayberry  candles 
melt  the  berries  for  a  day,  let  stand  24  hours, 
strain,  then  melt  a  little  and  pour  into  candle 
molds,  running  a  wick  through  each  candle.  If 
they  do  not  harden  perfectly,  melt  and  strain  again. 
It  requires  a  great  many  berries  to  make  a  few 
candles.  The  wicking  can  be  had  at  any  hard- 
ware store;  it  comes  in  a  ball-like  twine. 

Scald  New  Brooms  in  hot  suds  before  using; 
this  will  toughen  the  fibre.  Always  stand  new 
brooms  with  the  brush  end  up  and  the  weight  off 
the  fibre. 

Cotton  Gloves  for  Cleaning — Cotton  gloves  to 
wear  during  housework  are  cooler  and  better  in 
every  way  than  old  kid  gloves,  although  the  latter 
are  serviceable  with  the  fingers  cut  off.  If  bought 
especially  for  this  purpose  get  a  size  larger  than 
usually   worn. 

Pockets  in  Aprons — Have  two  enormous  pockets 
in  work  apron.  They  will  save  many  steps.  In 
one  room  will  be  many  things  to  be  carried  into 
another,  which  put  in  one  pocket.  Use  the  other 
for  trash  or  things  to  be  thrown  away.  The  hands 
are  free  for  the  cleaning  up  that  is  being  done. 

List  of  Cleaning  Materials  to  Have  Handy  Al- 
ways—  (Cornell   Reading   Course) Alcohol,    alum, 

ammonia,  bath  brick,  black  lead,  borax,  furniture 
polish,  kerosene,  methylated  spirit,  olive  oil,  paraf- 
fin, rottenstone,  salt,  separator  oil,  soap,  turpen- 
tine,   vinegar,   washing   soda,    wax    (floor),   whiting. 

Cleaning  Articles — (Cornell  Reading  Course) 

Apron,  stove;  carpet,  piece  old  brussels;  chamois 
skin  or  leather,  cheesecloth;  cloth,  scrub;  cloth, 
soft;  flannel,  canton;  flannel,  heavy;  flannel,  wax- 
ing; flannelette  for  dusters;  gloves,  rubber;  mitt, 
for  kerosene;  waste,  cotton  (bought  at  any  hard- 
ware store). 


GENERAL  UTILITY— HOUSEHOLD  MISCELLANY  29 

Cleaning  Utensils — (Cornell  Reading  Course) dauber,     dishpans,     funnels,     ironing     tables,      etc.. 

Boiler,    for    clothes;    brush,    closet;    brush,    cornice;  irons,    monkey    wrench;    mop,    cloth;    mop,    string; 

brush,     scrub;     brush,     soft;     brush,     trap;     brush,  saucepans,    old;    scissors   for   lamp,    stepladder,    tub, 

weighted;    brush,    wire,    for    sink;    carpet    sweeper;  fibre  tub,  washboard,   whisk   broom,    wringer. 

(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


30  THE   HOME-KEEPING   BOOK— Section   II.— GENERAL   UTILITY 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


WEARING  APPAREL 

TEXTILES— THEIR  CARE  AND  USE 

(Extracts  from   Bulletin  Under  Above   Heading,  Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture) 

TESTING  MATERIALS 

If  one  is  to  buy  intelligently,  there  must  be  some  knowledge  of  method  of 
judging  materials.  Chemical  and  microscopic  tests  determine  accurately  the  con- 
tent and  value  of  materials,  but  they  are  not  feasible  for  the  average  housewife. 
There  are  many  simple  tests,  however,  which  can  be  depended  upon  to  give  fairly 
accurate  information  of  standard  materials,  and  with  some  of  these  every  buyer 
should  be  somewhat  familiar  if  she  is  to  buy  wisely.  She  should  make  herself  famil- 
iar with  the  look  and  feel  and  weight  of  standard  materials,  and  although  there  will 
be  variations,  if  she  has  learned  to  judge  the  quality  of  some  reliable  materials,  she 
will  be  able  to  grade  others  from  those  which  she  knows. 

All  textile  fabrics  are  made  with  two  sets  of  threads.  The  lengthwise  threads 
are  known  as  the  warp  and  crosswise  threads  as  the  woof. 

A  good  way  to  test  the  endurance  of  any  material  is  to  take  the  cloth  firmly 
and  stretch  quickly  first  warp  way  and  then  filling  way.  If  the  material  tears  or  frays 
in  either  direction  it  shows  a  lack  of  strength. 

The  strength  may  also  be  tested  by  pushing  the  warp  and  woof  threads  back 
and  forth  to  see  if  they  move  easily.  If  they  can  be  pushed  without  difficulty  and 
are  soft  and  brittle  the  material  will  not  be  strong,  and  when  strain  is  applied  (as 
in  seams)  it  will  fray. 


I.       COTTON  selvedge   to   dry.      Place    the    clothes   pins    close   to- 

...  gether  so  the  cloth  will  not  stretch.     Turn  the  cloth 

The  characteristics  or  cotton  are:  ■         n      r                          t       i                 11 

_  occasionally   from   one   selvedge    to   the   other   so    it 

1.  Strong  and  elastic.  ...    ,                  .          D    ,          .     .           .        , 

7  will  dry  evenly.      Before   it  is   quite  dry,   iron   it  on 

2.  Launders  easily.  ,                       .,         ,,            ,                             , 

the  wrong  side.      It  you   let   it    get  too   dry  to   iron 

3.  Not  easily  affected  by  heat  or  alkali.  (Strong                .      ,                                    ,                ,                .     .          _. 

.    .  nicely,     press    it    under    a    damp     cloth.        Do     not 

washing  powders  injure  the  fiber.)  .    ,  .     .      ,        .           .          .                  t      1       1      1 

sprinkle  it,  tor  that  gives  it  a  rough,  dry  look. 

4.  Dyes  easily.  ,          ..            .,           .    .    .                 ,  .      .  ,    .       . 

.  A  quick  method  to  shrink  very  thin  fabrics  is  to 

,  *   _     .,         _.     "    _  .            .  ,  roll  the  wet  material  between  several  thicknesses  of 


6.  Easily  affected  by  acid. 

7.  A   good   conductor   of  heat 


Turkish    toweling,    wring    as    dry    as    possible,    and 
press  immediately. 


8.  Does  not  absorb  moisture  readily  and  gives  it  r\  i-          1             1         1      r  1     •             r            r    1            i. 

.       1  Delicately      colored      fabrics      otten      fade      when 

'             _           .            .            _     .                ,  washed.       It    is    always    advisable    to    test    the    color 

9.  Burns    easily    with    light    yellow    flashes    and  ..                „                  .  .  .    .     ,     .                ..           ,,     . 

.  with  a  small  piece  ot  fabric  before  washing.      Van- 
leaves  a  fine  ashy  powder.  ,            .                        .                     .               .                  .    . 

ous  formulas  are  used  to  set  colors  and  some  ot  the 

common  household  tests  are  as  follows: 

Shrinking  Cottons  and  Setting  Their  Color  Sah   (,    cupfuj  in    ,    gaUon  of  water). 

To  shrink  wash  materials,  put  them  direct  into  a  Vinegar    (J/2    cupful  in    1    gallon  water), 

tub  of  hot  water.      Squeeze  the  water  out  gently  in-  Sugar    of    lead     ( I     teaspoonful    in     1     gallon    of 

stead  of  wringing  it  out.      Hang  the  material  by  the  water).       (Poison.) 

31 


32 


THE    HOME-KEEPING    BOOK— Section    II.— GENERAL   UTILITY 


Alum    (I    tablespoonful    in    1     gallon    water). 

As  dye  materials  are  made  of  a  great  variety  of 
chemicals,  it  is  always  advisable  to  test  them  by 
soaking  small  pieces  of  cloth  in  the  above  solu- 
tions. 

To  insure  a  perfect  color  test,  the  pieces  of 
cloth  should  be  left  in  the  various  solutions  several 
hours  or  even  over  night,  then  dried  and  the  color 
compared  with  the  original  color  of  the  fabric. 

Sizing  of  Cotton 

Cotton  being  the  cheapest  of  materials,  cotton 
cloth  is  not  adulterated  with  any  of  the  other  com- 
mon fibers,  but  it  can  be  made  to  appear  heavier 
by  the  addition  of  mixtures  called  sizing.  Starches, 
gums,  dextrine,  glue  and  china-clay,  as  well  as 
other  ingredients  in  varying  proportions,  constitute 
this  sizing,  which  may  add  a  large  per  cent,  to  the 
weight  of  the  cloth.  The  spaces  between  the 
threads  are  filled  up  and  a  good  finish  is  given  to 
the  cloth,  although  the  wearing  quality  is  not  in- 
creased. If  present  in  large  quantities  the  cloth  is 
greatly  reduced  in  weight  and  firmness  after  the 
first  washing.  Adulterations  of  this  kind  can  be 
detected  by  the  feeling,  a  large  quantity  imparting 
a  harshness  to  the  material.  In  very  thin  fabrics 
the  sizing  may  often  be  detected  by  holding  the 
cloth  to  the  light,  when  its  starch  shows  between 
the  threads. 

Mercerized    Cotton 

Cotton  is  mercerized  by  treating  ordinary  cotton 
with  strong  sodium  hydroxide  solution  with  a  simul- 
taneous stretching  of  the  fibers.  It  is  then  washed 
in  water  and  dilute  acid. 

After  mercerization  the  yarn  is  stronger  and 
heavier  and  it  takes  dye  very  readily,  but  a  fiber 
mercerized  for  the  second  time  shows  no  further 
affinity  for  dye  stuffs. 

It  costs  more  than  twice  as  much  to  produce 
mercerized  yarn  as  ordinary  yarn.  Mercerized  cot- 
ton is  characterized  by  a  high  luster  almost  like 
silk. 

Cotton  may  be  made  to  look  like  mercerized  cot- 
ton by  passing  the  cloth  under  pressure  under  en- 
graved rollers.     This  is  a  means  of  adulteration. 

Cotton  is  probably  used  more  than  any  other 
material  for  underclothing.  It  is  a  good  conductor 
of  heat  and  is  desirable  for  summer  wear.  But 
when  it  is  loosely  woven  or  a  pile  left  on  the  sur- 
face as  in  canton  flannel  or  outing  flannel,  it  is  a 
poor  conductor  of  heat  and  is  desirable  for  the  win- 
ter months.  The  still  air  in  the  meshes  is  a  poor 
conductor  of  heat  and  the  material  feels  warmer 
because   a    loosely   woven    garment    holds    more   air. 

II.     LINEN 

The  characteristics  of  linen  are: 
t.    Snowy  white  when  bleached. 

2.  Strong  and  durable. 

3.  Smooth  and  glossy  when  laundered. 

4.  Good   conductor  of  heat. 


5.  Wrinkles  easily. 

6.  Water  is   readily  absorbed  and   evaporated. 

7.  It  does  not  retain  stains  as  persistently  as  cot- 

ton. 

8.  It  does  not  leave  lint. 

9.  Not  easily  affected  by  acids. 
I  0.  Washes  easily. 

Aids  in  Recognition  of  Linen 

1 .  Wash  linen  and  soak  in  glycerine.  Trans- 
parent if  linen,  opaque  if  cotton. 

2.  Soak  so-called  linen  material  in  sulphuric 
acid.  The  cotton  may  be  washed  out,  leaving  the 
linen  fibers. 

3.  Wash  thoroughly  sample  of  so-called  linen 
material  in  hot  soap  suds  and  rinse  in  hot  soft 
water  to  remove  the  finishing  material.  Dry  thor- 
oughly and  place  in  hot  muriatic  acid  one  minute. 
Transfer  quickly  to  fresh  water.  If  fabric  is  all  cot- 
ton, the  sample  will  drop  into  minute  pieces,  while 
if  it  is  linen  the  shape  will  remain  unchanged. 

4.  Tear  linen  quickly.  The  threads  should  be 
smooth  along  torn  edges.      Cotton  threads  curl. 

5.  Linen  does  not  burn  quite  as  readily  as  cot- 
ton.     It  leaves  a  small  amount  of  ash. 

6.  Wash  cloth  to  remove  dressing,  dry  in  fresh 
air.  Immerse  for  two  or  three  minutes  in  a  concen- 
trated solution  of  sulphuric  acid.  Cotton  under 
this  treatment  will  dissolve  almost  completely; 
linen  remains  nearly  unaffected. 

7.  Equally  thick  linen  and  cotton  goods  exhibit 
considerable  difference  in  weight.  Linen  goods  of 
equal  volume  are  about   1  7  per  cent,  heavier. 

8.  Cotton  materials  feel  warmer  than  linen. 
Cotton  by  its  peculiar  structure  makes  the  circu- 
lation of  air  difficult  and  holds  the  heat  more  than 
linen  goods  of  the  same  thickness.  (From  1 5  to 
30  per  cent,  more.) 

Absorption   Test 

9.  Wash  a  small  piece  of  fringed  material  from 
dressing.  Place  it  in  a  10  per  cent,  solution  of 
copper  sulphate  and  allow  it  to  remain  ten  minutes. 
Wash  thoroughly  to  remove  the  adhering  surplus 
of  copper  salt.  When  thoroughly  washed,  place 
the  material  in  a  1 0  per  cent,  solution  of  potas- 
sium ferro  cyanide.  "If  the  material  is  half  linen 
there  appears  in  the  part  which  consists  of  flax 
fiber  (warp  or  woof)  a  striking  copper- red  color, 
due  to  the  separation  of  ferro  cyanide  of  copper; 
while  the  cotton   fibers  remain  uncolored." 

Oil  Test 

10.  Linen,  if  freed  from  dressing,  becomes 
translucent  when  treated  with  olive  oil;  cotton  re- 
mains opaque. 

"The  linen  fiber,  because  of  its  thick  cell  wall, 
assumes  a  transparent  appearance.  It  appears 
clear  against  the  light,  and  dark  when  light  falls 
upon  it.      The  opposite  effect  is  noticed  in  cotton." 


GENERAL  UTILITY— WEARING  APPAREL 


33 


III.     WOOL 

The  characteristics  of  wool  are: 

1 .  Not  a   good   conductor  of  heat. 

2.  Readily  affected  by  heat  and  sudden  changes 
in  temperature. 

3.  Difficult   to   launder. 

4.  Readily  affected   by   friction. 

5.  Very  elastic. 

6.  Absorbs  a  large  amount  of  moisture;  12  to 
I  7  per  cent,  of  its  own  weight  under  ordinary  con- 
dition and  30  to  50  per  cent,  in  very  damp  weather. 

Wool  is  very  curly,  and  possesses  a  scaly  struc- 
ture in  a  much  more  marked  degree  than  hair,  in 
which  the  external  scales  lie  flat.  The  scales  on 
wool  fiber  stand  up  when  moist  and  warm  like  the 
scales  on  a  pine  cone,  and  when  cold  and  dry  or 
cold  and  moist,  lie  flat  like  the  scales  on  a  fish. 

The  scales  are  of  a  gelatinous  material  and  be- 
come soft  under  heat  and  moisture,  and  if  pressure 
is  applied  the  scales  lock  permanently  together  and 
the  cloth  is  reduced  in  length  and  width  and  is 
shrunken. 

A  seventy-two-inch  material  may  be  shrunken  or 
felted  to  fifty-four  inches,  and  there  may  be  in  a 
closely  felted  wool  fiber  three  thousand  scales  to 
the  inch. 

Sponging  and  Shrinking 

All  woolen  materials  should  be  sponged  either 
at  the  shop  or  at  home  before  they  are  made  up. 
Sponging  not  only  prevents  the  garment  from  spot- 
ting, but  keeps  it  from  shrinking  unevenly  in  wet 
weather. 

For  sponging,  the  selvedges  should  be  cut  off  or 
the  edges  clipped  to  prevent  their  drawing  when 
the  material  shrinks.  The  ironing  board  should 
be  covered  smoothly  with  two  or  three  thicknesses 
of  blanket  and  two  of  cotton  sheeting.  Lay  the 
material  face  downward,  or  if  it  is  a  double  width 
fabric,  it  may  be  folded  in  the  center,   right  side  in. 

Take  a  piece  of  sheeting  a  little  longer  than  the 
width  of  the  material  and  three-quarters  of  a  yard 
wide,  wet  it,  wring  it  dry  and  lay  it  smoothly  over 
the  suiting.  Press  several  times  with  a  hot  iron, 
remove  the  damp  cloth  and  substitute  a  dry  one, 
pressing  it  until  the  suiting  is  dry.  Never  use  a 
coarse  fabric  for  pressing,  as  it  will  leave  the  im- 
print of  the  weave  upon  the  material.  Keep  the 
iron  moving  or  it  will  leave  its  mark.  Do  not 
press  hard.  This  will  push  the  material  in  folds  in 
front  of  the  iron  and  will  stretch  the  cloth. 

Adulteration   of  Wool 

The  demand  for  woolen  cloth  far  exceeds  the 
supply  of  new  wool  and  it  is  necessary  to  resort 
to  various  measures  to  increase  the  supply  of  cloth. 

In  adulterating  a  material  the  manufacturer 
seeks  a  material  cheaper  than  the  fiber  he  wishes 
to  adulterate,   one  which  can  be  concealed   readily. 


Wool  when  combined  with  cheaper  cotton  fibre 
makes  a  material  which  wears  well,  but  does  not 
keep  its  shape  as  well  as  all-wool  cloth.  Because 
of  the  felting  property  of  wool  it  is  quite  possible 
to   conceal  a   good  deal   of   cotton. 


Shoddy 

Wool  is  used  over  and  over  again.  The  best  all- 
wool  rags  are  selected  to  produce  fibers,  which  are 
respun  and  again  woven  either  separately  if  of 
very  good  quality,  or  mixed  with  new  wool  or 
cotton.  Such  a  material  is  warm,  looks  well  for  a 
time  and  has  a  place,  but  must  not  be  bought  for 
new  wool  or  demand  the  price  of  good  woolen 
cloth. 

One  class  of  shoddy  consists  of  very  short  fibers, 
clippings  from  the  mills,  which  are  worked  into 
the  surface  of  a  felted  cloth  after  it  is  woven.  These 
clippings  after  a  time  work  out  and  are  found  in 
the  bottom  of  coats,  inside  linings,  etc.,  leaving  the 
surface  of  the   cloth  threadbare. 


Woolen  and  Worsteds 

"Various  distinctions  are  given  between  these 
two  yarns;  viz.,  that  woolen  is  made  from  short 
wool  and  worsted  from  long  wool,  and  that  woolen 
is  carded  and  worsted  combed.  While  both  of 
these  statements  are  to  a  certain  extent  true,  the 
real  distinction  lies  in  the  fact  that  woolen  thread 
has  its  fibers  running  in  many  directions,  more  or 
less  tangled,  while  worsted  thread  has  its  fibers 
quite  parallel.  Since  woolen  cloths  are  quite  largely 
felted,  this  crisscrossing  in  every  direction  leaves 
many  loose  ends  of  fibers  exposed  on  its  surface  to 
mat  together  and  form  a  compact  material. 
Worsted,  on  the  other  hand,  usually  shows  the 
threads  of  the  weave,  and  therefore  needs  to  have 
the  ends  of  the  threads  held  in  place,  so  as  not  to 
produce  a  felted  or  rough  surface.  The  short 
fibers  seem  best  suited  for  woolen  and  the  long 
fibers  for  worsted.  The  processes  used  to  bring 
about  these  two  results  are  quite  different." 

Charlotte  M.   Gibbs,   A.M. 

Woolen  and  Worsted  Materials 

Woolen  Width               Worsted              Width 

Broadcloth..  50-54  in.        Crepe    Cloth.     42-45  in. 

Cassimeres  .  .  -54  in.        Henrietta    .  .  .     38-45  in. 

Cheviot     ....    42-48  in.        Serge    42-54  in. 

Homespun    .  .    42-50  in.        Voile     42-45  in. 

Flannel      ....  27-36  in. 

Ladies'  Cloth.  44-54  in. 

Meltons     ....  -52  in. 

Kerseys     ....  -54  in. 

(Table  compiled  from  "Textiles,"  Woolman  and 
McGowan.) 


34 


THE   HOME-KEEPING    BOOK— Section    II.— GENERAL   UTILITY 


Tests   for   Wool 

1 .  Pure  wool  will  dissolve  in  a  solution  of  lye. 

2.  Detect  wool  from  shoddy  by  means  of  micro- 
scope. 

3.  Determination  of  cotton  in  wool;  boil  sam- 
ple in  a  five  per  cent,  solution  of  caustic  potash 
fifteen  minutes.      Wool  is  destroyed. 

4.  Funchin  dye  turns  wool  a  deep  pink,  leav- 
ing the  cotton  white.  (This  is  most  effective  when 
used  on  flannel  having  a  cotton  warp  with  a  wool 
filling.) 

IV.     SILK 

The  characteristics  of  silk  are: 

1.  Poor  conductor  of  heat. 

2.  Absorbs   moisture   readily. 

3.  Friction  weakens  the  materials. 

4.  Careless  washing  destroys  the  gloss. 

5.  It  scorches  easily. 

6.  Strong  and  tenacious.  (Tensile  strength 
"64,000  lbs.  per  square  inch.") 

7.  Pure  silk  wears  well. 

8.  Silk  is  soft  and  light  in  weight. 

9.  A  good  generator,  but  a  poor  conductor  of 
electricity. 

1  0.      Easily  dyed. 

I  I.  Fibers  injured  by  high  degree  of  heat  or 
sudden   changes  of  temperature. 

1  2.      Absorbs  moisture  readily. 

"Silk,  frequently  known  as  the  fiber  of  lux- 
ury." It  bleaches  and  dyes  beautifully  and  com- 
bines well  with  other  fibers,  both  animal  and  vege- 
table. The  cost  of  raw  silk  is  about  thirty  times 
that  of  raw  cotton  and  the  waste  in  weaving  at 
least  five  times  that  of  cotton. 

Silk  has  a  very  great  ability  to  absorb  metallic 
salts,  and  there  is  practically  no  silk  on  the  market 
to-day  that  is  entirely  free  from  metallic  salts,  but 
there  is  a  great  difference  in  the  amount  present. 

Pongee  is  a  material  made  from  the  cocoon  of 
the  uncultivated  silk  worm;  rajah,  tussah,  and 
other  uneven,  coarse  materials  are  from  the  same 
source.  These  silks  are  very  strong,  but  do  not 
have  a  high  luster. 


Tests    for   Silk 

1.  Indications  of  adulteration: 

Pin  holes  in  new  silk;  weighted  with  metallic 
salts.  (One  pound  of  raw  silk  will  make 
two  or  three  pounds  of  weighted  silk.) 

2.  Test  for  weighing: 

Will  burn  easily  if  not  weighted,  will  retain 
its  shape  if  ■weighted. 

3.  Test  for  silk  and  cotton: 

Strong  alkali  will  dissolve  silk  and  will  leave 
the  cotton. 


Summary  of  Adulteration  Methods 

1.  By  combination.  Use  of  other  fibers  than 
the  one  indicated  by  the  name  of  the  material. 
Example,   cotton  in  woolens,   cotton  in  linens,  etc. 

2.  By  substitutions.  Selling  one  fiber  under 
the  name  of  an  entirely  different  one.  Example, 
mercerized  cotton  sold  for  silk,   or  linen. 

3.  By  increasing  the  weight  of  a  material, 
(a)  Cottons  and  linens  with  starch;  (b)  Silks  with 
metallic  salts  and  dyes. 

4.  By  giving  a  finish  which  is  deceptive.  (a) 
Heavy  pressing  or  calendaring  an  ordinary  cotton 
to  imitate  mercerizing.  (b)  Finishing  cotton  to 
look  like  linen.  (c)  Printing  paste  dots  on  cotton 
to  produce  the  effect  of  embroidered  dotted  Swiss. 

5.  By  use  of  made-over  yarns.  Example: 
Shoddy  in  woolens,  also  addition  of  short  wool, 
felted  in  surface. 

When  women  demand  a  better  quality  of  mate- 
rials and  refuse  to  buy  the  cheap  things,  the  manu- 
facturers will  cease  to  produce  worthless  things. 
Perhaps,  however,  before  that  day  arrives  the 
thoughtful  -workers  of  the  land  will  have  succeeded 
in  passing  a  pure  textile  law,  which  will  do  for 
our  cloth  what  the  pure  food  act  is  doing  for  our 
food  supplies. 

At  the  present  time  the  rush  to  the  bargain 
counter,  the  enormous  amount  of  cheap,  poor  ma- 
terial manufactured,  the  catering  to  fads,  novelties 
and  the  great  waste  in  dress  all  go  to  prove  that 
there  are  many  women  who  are  not  intelligent 
buyers. 


THE  CARE  OF  WOOLENS 

It  is  a  matter  of  economy  that  every  householder  should  know  how  to  have 
woolens  light,  soft  and  clean — both  clothing  and  household  furnishings.  They  will 
keep  twice  as  long  and  not  shrink  and  harden  but  remain  as  soft  as  when  new. 

We  shall  not  touch  here  on  the  laundering  of  woolens,  however,  but  refer 
you  to  Section  IX,  "The  Laundry,"  where  the  washing  and  caring  for  woolens, 
blankets,  sweaters,  etc.,  is  thoroughly  covered.  Read  carefully  the  article  under  that 
section. 


GENERAL  UTILITY— CARE  OF  APPAREL 


35 


CARE  OF  OTHER  APPAREL 


MISCELLANEOUS 
Restoring  Velvet — When  you  get  caught  in  a 
rain  shower  or  snowstorm  with  your  new  velvet 
hat  on,  it  certainly  is  not  pleasing  to  your  disposi- 
tion. However,  if  measures  are  taken  at  once  no 
harm  is  done  to  the  hat.  Take  several  old  hand- 
kerchiefs or  a  piece  of  soft  cloth  and  pat  the 
water  out  of  the  hat.  When  most  of  it  on  the  out- 
side has  been  gotten  off  in  this  manner  rub  with 
a  dry  cloth  until  the  velvet  is  quite  dry.  Put  hat 
where  it  will  be  thoroughly  dry  over  night,  and 
next  morning  brush  it  hard  with  a  clothes  brush. 
Finally  use  a  hat  or  velvet  brush  and  you  will  find 
that  your  hat  looks  as  well  as  it  did  before  it  got 
wet. 

Spotted   Velvet To    restore    the    color    of   velvet 

that  has  become  spotted  by  rain,  steam  the  whole 
surface  to  make  the  shade  even.  Do  not  brush 
before  steaming.  The  velvet  will  look  darker  at 
first  but  it  will  soon  become  lighter  in  the  open 
air. 

To  Clean  Furs Furs  may  be  cleaned  by  the  fol- 
lowing process;  warm  some  bran  in  a  saucepan, 
keeping  it  well  stirred  so  that  it  does  not  burn. 
Rub  this  well  into  the  fur  several  times  until  there 
is  no  dirt  on  the  bran;  then  shake  the  fur  thor- 
oughly. 

Brushing    Velvets Besides    the    ordinary    clothes 

brush  it  is  well  to  always  keep  a  piece  of  velvet 
or  velveteen  to  be  used  for  dusting  ribbons,  velvets, 
hat  trimmings  and  other  articles  of  silk.  It  will 
be  found  far  better  for  the  purpose  than  any  brush. 
For  dusting  velvet  or  velveteen  an  excellent  brush, 
better  than  one  of  bristles,  is  made  by  rolling  up  a 
piece  of  crepe,  which  need  not  be  new,  into  a  con- 
venient little  bundle. 

A  Petticoat  Hint Put  on  a  china  silk  dust  ruffle 

in  place  of  the  cotton  one  usually  found  on  the 
average  priced  silk  petticoat.  It  reduces  friction, 
makes  the  skirt  wear  longer,  sheds  the  dust  instead 
of  holding  it  as  the  cotton  ruffle  does,  washes 
nicely,  and  if  good  quality  will  outlast  two  petti- 
coats. 

To    Curl   Feathers Take    a    round    stick    of    any 

kind;  hold  feather  close  to  it  and  carefully  fold 
the  down  around  the  ■wood,  not  close.  Slip  over 
it  a  small  bag  made  to  fit  loosely  over  the  stick  and 
feathers.  Hold  in  steam  from  a  kettle  till  well 
dampened;  then  put  in  a  warm  spot  till  perfectly 
dry;  the  feather  will  be  nicely  curled  without  dam- 
age to  its  texture. 

To  Keep  Rubber  Articles — Bathing  caps  and 
other  rubber  goods  can  be  kept  fresh  and  new  by 
giving  them  a  "bath"  of  talcum  powder,  when  dry, 
after  use. 


CARE  OF  SHOES 

When  putting  away  shoes  over  season,  unless 
properly  taken  care  of,  you  will  be  sadly  disap- 
pointed. All  shoes  are  more  or  less  damp  with 
perspiration,  and  as  they  dry  out  the  toes  turn  up 
and  deep  wrinkles  settle  across  the  leather.  Here 
is  the  remedy:  Brush  well,  removing  every  particle 
of  dust,  rub  with  vaseline,  pack  full  of  crushed 
paper,  wrap  with  paper  and  pack  away. 

Waterproofing  Shoes — The  following  are  two 
home  methods  of  waterproofing  shoes  and  leather. 
Mix  eight  parts  linseed  oil,  ten  parts  boiled  oil, 
eight  parts  suet  and  eight  of  beeswax  by  heating 
them  over  a  slow  fire.  Warm  the  leather  to  be 
treated,  and  with  a  brush  apply  the  warm  mixture 
to  it,  making  sure  to  coat  the  seams  carefully.  Or; 
melt  together  over  a  slow  fire  one  part  white  pine 
tar,  one  part  Neat's  foot  oil,  and  one  of  beef  tallow. 
Apply  this  mixture  as  above. 

To    Polish    Damp    Shoes Mix    a    few    drops    of 

paraffin  with  the  blacking  and  the  shoes  will  take 
the  polish  at  once. 

To  Polish  Wet  Boots — Dry  the  boots  or  shoes 
thoroughly,  but  slowly.  Don't  put  them  in  an 
oven,  unless  watched  closely;  they  will  burn  or 
warp  easily.  Rub  the  surface  of  the  leather  with 
a  raw  potato;  set  aside  until  once  more  dry.  Then 
polish  in  usual  manner. 

To  Clean  Tan  Shoes — Put  them  on  shoe-trees 
and  scrub  them  with  a  stiff  brush  with  soap  and 
water.  This  removes  every  bit  of  the  polish,  the 
spots  "with  it,  and  when  you  polish  them  again  you 
can  hardly  recognize  them  as  not  new. 

Too    Much   Tan A    coating    of   thick    castor    oil 

applied  with  a  soft  flannel  cloth  to  exaggerated 
colored  tan  shoes  will  tone  down  their  vividness 
considerably. 

To  Bronze  Rubbers — Black  rubbers  can  be 
bronzed  by  simply  painting  with  the  same  polish 
used  for  the  brown  shoes  you  want  them  to  match. 

A  New  Shoe  which  hurts  the  feet.  Put  on  a 
stocking  and  dip  foot  in  water.  Slip  on  the  shoe 
and  walk  in  it  a  few  moments.  You  will  have  no 
more  trouble. 

To    Stop    Squeaking    of   Shoes Raise    the    inner 

lining  of  the  sole  and  cover  the  sole  liberally  with 
toilet  powder,  then  replace  the  lining.  Repeat  if 
required. 

Squeaky  Shoes Try  dipping  the  soles  in  kero- 
sene. 

White  Belt — A  good  method  to  clean  this  is  to 
rub  powdered  borax  in  gently  with  a  piece  of  white 
flannel. 


36  THE   HOME-KEEPING   BOOK— Section   II.— GENERAL  UTILITY 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


THE  SEWING  ROOM 

TO  SHRINK  LINENS 

To  shrink  linens,  and  similar  wash-goods ;  lay  the  material  in  folds  of  a  yard, 
then  baste  all  the  selvedges  together  on  one  side,  leaving  other  selvedges  free.  Then 
baste  at  each  end  through  all  the  folds.  Fold  the  goods  now  so  it  will  lie  smoothly 
in  the  vessel  to  be  used,  without  crushing.  Fill  the  vessel  with  cold  water  sufficiently 
to  cover  the  goods  and  leave  the  material  immersed  for  about  half  an  hour ;  wring- 
ing out  lightly  without  creasing. 

Hang  the  basted  end  to  a  line,  and  pull  and  straighten  with  the  hands  until 
smooth  and  uniform ;  fold  one  corner  crosswise  to  another  to  see  if  the  sides  regis- 
ter straight,  slip  the  hands  up  and  outward  between  the  free  selvedges  until  all  the 
folds  are  smooth. 

When  almost  dry  remove  the  bastings  on  the  ends  and  assist  the  drying  by 
shaking  and  shaping.  Crease  the  folds  to  show  the  yards  lengths.  When  entirely 
dry,  the  material  should  look  like  new ;  in  all  likelihood  no  ironing  will  be  neces- 
sary. 

SEWING-ROOM  HINTS 


The  Sewing  Machine  does  not  always  need  more 
oil  when  it  will  not  work  easily,  it  may  be  gummed 
with  old  oil,  or  may  be  only  "cold."  Place  it  near 
a  fire  or  in  a  very  warm  room;  this  will  melt  the 
oil  and  enable  you  to  see  if  gummed  with  old  oil; 
if  so,  wipe  off  the  gummed  parts  before  oiling 
anew. 

To  Tighten  a  Belt — Instead  of  stopping  work  to 
take  off  belt  and  shorten  it,  slip  a  few  small  rubber 
bands  over  the  small  wheel;  they  will  give  the  loose 
belt  "purchase"  until  you  have  time  for  the  per- 
manent correction. 

When  belt  first  begins  to  loosen  too  much,  oil  the 
band  with  a  little  castor  oil  and  turn  the  handle  of 
the  machine  rapidly;  this  will  shrink  the  leather 
and  shorten  the  belt,  and  at  the  same  time  improve 
the  leather  itself. 

Slipping  Garments — To  prevent  garments  slip- 
ping off  the  leaf  of  the  machine  while  stitching 
heavy  goods,  slip  an  old  pillow  case  over  the  leaf 
and  pin  it  tight.  If  sewing  dark  material  use  a 
dark  cloth  if  the  lint  off  the  slip  adheres  to  the 
goods. 

A  fine  steel  crochet  hook  is  most  useful  about  a 
machine  for  removing  dust,  lint,  threads  and 
gummed  oil  in  corners. 

To  remove  machine  oil  from  a  white  garment, 
rub  with  chalk  as  soon  as  possible,  leave  for  a 
short  time,  then  brush  and  the  spot  will  disappear. 

Home-made  Bust  Form — Take  a  well-fitted  lining 
and    stitch    and    press    it    and    sew    hooks    and    eyes 


down  front.  Bind  neck  with  tape  to  prevent  stretch- 
ing. Take  an  ordinary  feather  bed  pillow,  stand 
on  end  and  fit  the  lining  around  it,  work  the  pil- 
low into  the  lining  until  every  corner  is  filled  out. 
It  will  make  a  duplicate  of  your  own  form  sufficient 
for  all  practical  purposes  for  draping  and  fitting, 
pinning  and  sewing,  and  will  save  you  many  an 
hour  of  standing  fatigued  while  some  one  assists 
you  in  the  arduous  fitting  process. 

When  sewing  braid  on  the  bottom  of  a  skirt, 
insert  a  small  piece  of  cardboard  between  the  hem, 
moving  it  along  as  you  proceed,  and  you  will  save 
much  time  and  temper. 

Pearl  Buttons  may  be  fastened  on  a  dress  by 
pinning  them  on  from  the  inside  ■with  very  small 
safety  pins;    they  can  thus  be  removed  for  washing. 

Buttonhole  Hint — In  making  buttonholes  in  very 
soft  material,  rub  a  little  flour  and  water  paste  on 
the  underside.  It  will  stiffen  and  give  a  firm  sur- 
face, also  prevent  cutting  the  hole  too  large,  and 
will  not  discolor  the  fabric. 

Ball  and  Socket  Snaps Sew  the  ball  snap  on  the 

upper  piece.  The  back  of  this  is  flat  and  will  leave 
no  mark  on  outside;  the  socket  snap  would  leave 
a  round  mark  in  the  centre,  particularly  noticeable 
on  smooth-finished  goods. 

Knotting  a  Thread Do  you  appreciate  the  sim- 
ple fact  that  if  you  tie  the  knot,  after  threading  a 
needle,  always  in  the  end  of  the  thread  just  snipped 
from  the  spool,  you  will  avoid  that  troublesome 
kinking  you  have  often  encountered? 


37 


38  THE    HOME-KEEPING    BOOK— Section    II.— GENERAL   UTILITY 

In  mending  a  rent,  in  a  delicate  muslin  or  other  Novel  Mending Wool   or  silk:   carefully  smooth 

material,    place    the    torn   part,   with   new   piece   be-  the  frayed  part,   then  moisten  a  piece  of  the  mate- 

neath,    in   an   embroidery   hoop   and   the   darning   is  rial  with  very  thin  mucilage  and  put  a  heavy  weight 

much  easier.  upon  it  until  it  dries;    the  mended  place  can  be  less 

easily  detected  than  if  darned  or  mended. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


THE  TABLE  BEAUTIFUL 


The  woman  of  fine  sensibilities  does  not  need  her  love  of  beautiful  table 
appointments  stimulated.  It  is  instinctive  to  desire  and  appreciate  the  "home- 
making"  value  of  the  crisp,  fresh  beauty  of  spotless  napery  and  the  gleam  of  pol- 
ished glass  and  silver.  She  joys  as  much  in  the  observance  of  the  principles  of 
decorative  appearance  in  the  furnishing,  arrangement  and  appointment  of  her  table 
as  she  does  in  that  of  the  rest  of  the  house. 

But  we  have  bought  our  table  covers  without  regard  for  table  china,  and  our 
table  china  without  regard  to  our  other  implements  and  materials,  and  we  use  the 
same  old  things  day  after  day  with  little  thought  of  studied  variety  and  harmonious 
combinations.  We  are  usually  handicapped  at  the  outset  with  an  ill-assorted  jumble 
of  wedding  presents  of  no  relation  one  to  another.  And  we  start  off  wrong,  as  a 
rule,  from  a  natural  pride  in  these  gifts,  by  displaying  the  finest  of  them,  and  as 
many  of  them,  as  often  as  we  can,  without  thought  of  inharmonies. 

It  would  be  a  hopeless  task  to  attempt  here  to  tell  one  what  is  right  and 
what  is  wrong.  If  one  has  no  ear  for  music  it  is  a  long,  tedious  process  to  learn, 
and  only  the  one  who  wants  to  learn  can  by  close  application  master  real  harmony 
and  know  real  beauty  and  perfection  and  produce  it. 

But  the  harmony  of  appearance  is  as  essential  as  any  other  item  of  "home- 
making."  Study  your  table.  Learn  what  brings  about  the  beauty  of  softness, 
simplicity  and  consistency.  Do  the  best  you  can  with  your  "wedding  presents" 
by  adding  to  them  intelligently  from  time  to  time,  as  you  find  you  inevitably  have 
to  add  various  new  appointments.  Withhold  what  you  have,  however  beautiful 
in  itself,  until  you  can  use  it  in  fit  surroundings  in  combinations  that  make  a 
whole  note. 

And  remember  above  all,  that  much  "fancy  stuff"  is  now  altogether  passe, 
and  overloading  is  eggregious  sinfulness.  By  staying  close  to  simplicity  many 
combinations  become  appropriate  and  harmonious;  the  elaborate  or  unusual  will 
clash  in  almost  any  setting  you  can  plan. 

39 


40  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  III.— DINING  ROOM 

A  few  flowers,  or  a  little  living  green  thing,  is  almost  without  exception 
tasteful  and  quite  as  important  as  the  forks  and  spoons.  It  may  be  a  Japanese 
dwarf-tree  or  a  single  flower  or  sprig  of  evergreen,  but  if  properly  set  it  lifts  the 
thought  subtly  from  meat  and  drink  and  cheers  the  whole  tone  of  things  as  uncon- 
sciously and  successfully  as  the  bit  of  cheerful  conversation  which  is  itself  as  essen- 
tial a  part  of  a  meal  as  the  buttered  bread. 

Thank  the  gods  of  good  taste  that  the  time  has  passed  when  we  sat  down  to 
the  table  loaded  with  one  glory  of  silverware  and  one  glory  of  glassware  and  one 
glory  of  chinaware  and  one  glory  of  linenware,  and  each  glory  out-glorifying  every 
other  in  its  glory.  We  spread  now  a  feast  of  simple  wholesomeness  for  the  eye  as 
well  as  for  the  palate,  and  each  helps  with  the  perfect  assimilation  of  the  other. 


TABLE  LINEN 

(Iowa  State  College) 

Linen  is  sometimes  called  the  textile  of  luxury,  but  there  is  no  textile  so 
quickly  cleaned,  so  fine,  or  so  durable  for  constant  service.  Linen  is  expensive 
because  of  the  slow  process  of  manufacturing. 

Within  a  few  years  the  weaving  of  linen  has  increased  in  the  United  States. 

Irish  linen  is  noted  for  its  endurance,  reliable  quality  and  snowy  whiteness. 
It  still  holds  a  high  reputation,  and  its  manufacture  dates  back  to  the  thirteenth  cen- 
tury, and  Belfast  is  the  center  of  the  industry.  Much  of  the  linen  in  Ireland  is  grass 
bleached.     The  designs  are  simple;    many  of  the  old  patterns  are  still  used. 

Scotch  linen  is  silver  white  in  color  and  is  grass  bleached.  It  is  moderate  in 
price;  the  designs  are  generally  more  elaborate  than  the  Irish. 

French  damask  is  noted  for  its  exquisite  and  effective  designs.  The  threads 
are  fine  and  round  and  especial  attention  is  given  to  the  beauty  of  the  finish. 

German  linen  is  silver  white  and  of  high  grade.  The  finest  grades  are  not 
exported  as  much  as  the  medium  grades. 

During  the  period  of  the  shortage  of  linen  and  consequently  high  prices  of 
table  linen,  it  is  wise  to  save  as  much  as  possible  by  the  use  of  other  materials. 
Many  housekeepers  find  it  an  economy  as  well  as  a  convenience,  which  saves  labor 
in  washing,  to  use  the  squares  and  runners  of  Japanese  towling,  which  are  to  be  had 
at  reasonable  prices  and  in  attractive  designs. 


THE  DINING  ROOM— THE  TABLE  BEAUTIFUL 


41 


TABLE  SETTING 

(Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture) 
Diagram  Showing  Arrangement  of  Single  Cover 


Whether  a  meal  is  simple  or  elaborate  much  of  its  success  depends  on  the 
care  with  which  the  dishes  are  placed  on  the  table. 

Silence  Cloth — Cover  the  table  with  a  silence  cloth,  which  may  consist  of 
table  padding,  a  thin  white  blanket  or  heavy  cotton  flannel. 

Table  Cloth — The  cloth  should  be  large  enough  to  fall  from  ten  to  twelve 
inches  below  the  edge  of  the  table.  It  should  be  placed  with  the  center  of  the  cloth 
exactly  in  the  center  of  the  table. 

Silver — The  knife  and  fork  for  the  main  course  mark  the  cover.  They  are 
placed  one  inch  from  edge  of  table,  knife  at  the  right  with  sharp  edge  toward  the 
plate;  fork  at  left,  tines  turned  up.  The  other  pieces  of  silver  are  parallel  with 
these,  and  placed  with  the  piece  to  be  used  first  farthest  from  the  plate.  The  knives 
and  spoons  are  at  right  and  the  forks  at  the  left. 

Glass — The  glass  is  placed  at  the  tip  of  the  knife. 

The  Butter  Plate — The  butter  plate  is  placed  at  the  tip  of  the  fork,  and  a  little 
to  the  left. 

The  Napkin — The  napkin  is  placed  at  the  left  of  the  forks  with  the  folds  at 
the  upper  and  left-hand  sides. 

General  Rules — Serve  hostess  first. 

Place  and  remove  from  right. 

Pass  to  left. 

Everything  relating  to  a  course  should  be  removed  at  the  end  of  that  course. 

Folded  napkin  and  small  tray  should  be  used  in  serving. 

Fill  glass  three-quarters  full  just  before  meal  is  announced. 

Butter,  relishes,  etc.,  can  be  on  the  table  when  the  guests  are  seated. 

Soiled  dishes  should  be  removed  first,  then  food,  next  clean  dishes,  etc. 

Place  all  knives  and  spoons  to  the  right. 

Place  all  forks  to  the  left  with  the  exception  of  the  oyster  fork,  which  is 
placed  at  the  extreme  right. 

The  guests  stand  behind  or  beside  their  chairs,  and  are  seated  from  the  left 
when  the  hostess  gives  the  signal. 


42 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section   III.— DINING   ROOM 


DINING  ROOM  EQUIPMENT  AND  ITS  CARE 


Attractive  Trays Buy   a   ten-cent  picture   frame 

of  depth  and  size  desired;  buy  two  handles  and 
screws,  and  insert  under  the  glass  some  pretty 
cretonne  or  chintz  or  a  bit  of  lace  where  the  pic- 
ture belongs.  You  have  a  very  attractive  little  tray 
for  dining  service;  or  it  is  suitable  in  smaller  sizes 
for  pin-tray  on  a  dresser. 

Napkin  Rings  for  Guests — Take  brass  curtain 
rings  and  wind  them  with  satin  ribbon,  in  different 
colors,  and  put  them  away  for  guest  use  when 
needed.  A  set  of  small  gold  initials  containing  all 
letters  of  the  alphabet  in  tiny  paper  stickers  may 
be  obtained  for  a  small  sum;  you  can  thus  decorate 
the  guest's  napkin  with  his  or  her  initial,  during 
the  visit,  a  cheerful  touch  that  adds  much  to  the 
atmosphere  of  a  sincere  and  spontaneous  welcome. 

Table  Mats  made  from  white  pyramid  rubber 
matting  such  as  is  made  for  automobiles  is  better 
than  asbestos  mats  to  protect  from  hot  dishes  and 
are  readily  cleaned  and  kept  white  with  chalk. 
Covers  of  linen  may  be  used  with  them  if  desired. 

To    Clean    Silver (Cornell    Reading    Course) 

Apparatus:  a  bottle  of  silver  polish,  a  small  piece 
of  old,  soft  cloth,  a  clean  flannel  or  flannelette 
cloth,  a  plate  brush,  and  a  clean  chamois  skin. 

Shake  the  polish  bottle  thoroughly,  wet  the  old 
cloth  with  the  polish,  and  rub  all  the  silver  all  over 
with  it.  Then  wash  the  mouth  and  cork  of  the 
bottle  and  cork  the  bottle  tightly.  When  cleaning 
a  large  amount  of  silver  pour  the  polish  in  a  small 
saucer  to  use. 

When  the  whiting  is  dry  on  the  silver,  rub  off 
as  much  as  possible  with  the  flannel  cloth. 

Bruch  the  whiting  out  of  cracks  and  crevices 
with  the  plate  brush. 

Polish  with  the  chamois.  If  necessary  after- 
wards,  wash  the   chamois. 

Recipe      for      Silver      Polish (Cornell      Reading 

Course) — Take  1  cup  methylated  spirit  (wood 
alcohol),  2  tablespoonfuls  household  ammonia,  |^ 
cup  precipitated  whiting.  Mix  the  ingredients  and 
keep  in  a  closely  corked  bottle.  Shake  thoroughly 
before  using. 

Note:  The  silver  polish  should  be  of  the  consist- 
ency of  milk  when  used. 

Cleaning  Silver — If  silver  is  never  washed  with 
soap  it  will  retain  its  lustre.  Hold  under  hot  faucet 
and  use  unsoaped  mop,  then  polish  with  chamois 
skin. 

Keeping  Silver — Large  pieces  of  silver,  such  as 
urns,  pitchers,  baskets,  fruit  dishes,  should  be  kept 
in  canton  flannel  bags,  nap  inside,  the  bag  closed 
with  draw  strings.  Packed  in  dry  flour,  silver  will 
not  tarnish. 

Another  Polish — Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a 
stiff   froth,   add  enough  soda   to   make  a  stiff  paste. 


Wash  the  silver  first,  and  thoroughly  dry  it,  then 
rub  with  the  paste  until  all  dark  places  disappear; 
rinse  in  cold  water  and  dry  with  chamois. 

When  Cleaning  Knives  mix  a  little  soda  with  the 
bathbrick  for  a  polish. 

Broken  China  Cement — Take  4  oz.  clear  gum- 
arabic,  dissolve  in  6  oz.  of  rain  or  distilled  water; 
add  6  oz.  best  cane  sugar  and  3  oz.  best  white 
starch.  Let  the  whole  dissolve,  put  in  a  jar,  stand 
in  a  pan  of  water  and  boil  until  the  starch  becomes 
clear;  as  it  cools  add  a  few  drops  essence  of  cloves. 
Keep  tightly  corked. 

For  mending  delicate  china  and  ornaments  there 
is  nothing  better  than  rice-flour  or  ground  rice 
mixed  with  cold  water  thoroughly  and  simmered 
over  a  slow  fire  until  thickened.  It  can  be  used  hot 
or  cold,  and  is  a  most  durable  adhesive. 

Metal  and  Glass  Cement — Common  alum  melted 
in  an  iron  spoon  over  hot  coals  makes  a  very 
strong  cement  for  joining  metal  and  glass. 

Washing       Glassware Glassware        should        be 

washed  only  in  warm  water,  either  clean  or  with 
pure  white  soapsuds,  using  a  stiff  brush  and  clean 
cuttings.  Never  rub  soap  directly  on  glass.  Rinse 
in  clear  water,  and  for  drying  use  linen  towels 
kept  especially  for.  this  purpose.  Glass  dried  by 
placing  in  clean,  fine  boxwood  sawdust  takes  on  a 
greater  lustre. 

To  preserve  lustre  and  to  brighten  dingy  glass, 
add  a  little  ammonia  or  bluing  to  the  water  in 
which  it  is  washed,  and  after  drying  polish  with 
very  soft  chamois  or  silk  handkerchief. 

Glass  decanters  may  be  cleaned  by  partly  filling 
with  warm  water  and  fine-chopped  pieces  of  raw 
potato;  shake  up  and  down  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
rub  over  inside  with  sponge  tied  to  end  of  a  stick; 
dry  with  soft  cloth  in  same  manner.  If  decanters 
are  very  soiled  the  potato  peelings  should  remain 
in  the  bottle  over  night  before  washing  out.  Shot- 
is  frequently  poured  into  glass  bottles  to  clean  in- 
side,  but  is  apt  to   leave  scratches. 

V/hen  paint  sticks  to  glass  it  can  be  removed 
with   hot  vinegar. 

To  polish  cut  glass  wash  it  well  with  soapsuds, 
rinse  and  then  after  drying  it  with  a  cloth,  polish 
it  with  sawdust  and  a  leather,  and  the  glass  will 
be  brilliant. 

To  Whiten  Ivory  Knife  Handles Cut  a  lemon  in 

half,  dip  it  into  common  kitchen  salt  and  rub  over 
the  handles.  This  will  remove  the  dirty  yellow 
look  and  make  the  ivory  as  bright  and  white  as 
new. 

Cheese-Cloth  "Towels"  for  silver  and  glassware 
will  be  found  more  desirable  than  crash  as  they 
are  free  from   lint. 


THE  REFRIGERATOR 

Care  of  Refrigerator — Nothing  is  more  important  in  the  household  than 
keeping  the  refrigerator  free  and  sweet  and  clean  from  offensive  odors.  There  is 
no  point  in  housekeeping  where  watchfulness  and  nicest  care  are  so  important.  A 
good  housekeeper  will  have  her  refrigerator  cleaned  at  least  once  a  week,  if  not 
more.  This  is  best  accomplished  in  the  morning  before  the  iceman  comes.  No 
woman  should  trust  this  matter  wholly  tip  a  servant,  however  careful  the  latter  may 
be,  for  the  health  of  her  family  is  directly  involved. 

To  Clean  Refrigerator — (Cornell  Reading  Course) — Apparatus:  two  dishpans,  the 
trap  brush,  a  small  scrub  brush,  two  dishcloths,  a  clean  towel,  soap,  washing  soda,  and 
ammonia. 

Empty   the   water   pan   below   and   replace  it. 

Fill  the  sink  or  a  dishpan  half  full  of  strong,  hot  soapsuds.  Put  warm  water  into 
a  dishpan  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  and  add  a  half  tablespoonful  ammonia. 

Remove  the  ice  to  the  other  dishpan,  using  the  dishcloths  to  prevent  its  slipping. 
Gather  up  any  straws  or  dirt. 

Remove  all  food.     Put  the  ice-rack  and  the  shelves  into  the  soapsuds. 

Wash  the  ice-box  carefully  and  quickly  with  the  ammonia  water.  Be  sure  to  get  all 
the  corners  clean,  and  scrub  the  waste  pipe  with  the  trap  brush.  Rinse  it  down  with  the 
ammonia  water  and  then  with  a  dipperful  of  fresh,  clean  water.  Dry  with  the  dishcloth 
wrung  out  of  clean  water. 

If  the  waste  pipe  is  movable,  take  it  out  of  the  food  closet  and  put  it  in  the  soap- 
suds. Scrub  the  ice-rack  and  the  shelves  with  the  scrub  brush,  and  the  pipe  with  the  trap 
brush.      Let  off  the  suds,  rinse  the  pieces  in  plenty  of  cold  water,   and  dry  with  the  towel. 

Replace  the  ice-rack  and  the  ice,  and  close  the  ice-box  doors. 

Mix  a  fresh  lot  of  ammonia  water,  and  wash  the  walls  and  the  floor  of  the  food 
closet.  Be  sure  the  corners  are  clean.  Dry  with  the  towel.  Be  very  sure  that  movable 
parts  belonging  to  the  waste  pipe  are  taken  apart,  washed  thoroughly,  and  carefully  fitted 
back  into  place.     Then  replace  the  waste  pipe  and  the  shelves. 

Replace  the  food  but  do  not  close  the  doors. 

Wash  out  the  pipe  cap  under  the  refrigerator  most  carefully  with  the  ammonia 
water  and  soap. 

Empty  the  water  pan  and  wash  it  thoroughly,  with  plenty  of  soap  in  the  ammonia 
water,  before  replacing  it. 

Close  the  refrigerator  doors.  Wash  out  and  put  away  the  dishpan,  brushes  and 
cloths. 

Dangerous  if  Unsanitary — If  the  shelves  and  bottom  of  the  refrigerator  are  wiped 
every  day  with  a  cloth  wet  in  soda  and  water  this  will  tend  to  keep  it  purified.  The  waste 
pipe  must  be  kept  open  and  clean.  It  should  never  connect  with  a  general  drain  pipe;  such 
an  arrangement  often  results  in  the  actual  poisoning  of  foods  in  the  box,  in  spite  of  water 
traps  and  other  precautions.  A  saucer  of  powdered  charcoal  placed  on  the  shelf  or  a  piece 
of  charcoal  placed  in  the  refrigerator,  and  renewed  every  three  or  four  days,  absorbs  odors 
and  keeps  the  air  pure. 

43 


44  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  III.— REFRIGERATOR 

If  the  refrigerator  is  kept  in  the  cellar,  the  cellar  should  be  frequently  inspected,  kept 
clean  and  well-aired,  and  if  possible  white-washed  once  or  twice  a  year.  A  musty,  damp, 
and  ill-ventilated  cellar  is  dangerous  to  health  in  any  case. 

Dishes  on  Ice  in  refrigerator  should  have  a  small  rubber  mat  under  them  and  they 
will  not  slip  as  the  ice  melts.     Preserve-jar  rubber  rings  may  be  used  for  the  purpose. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


THE  KITCHEN  AND  COOKERY 


Part  I. 
TALKS  ON  FOODS 


1.  The  Relative  Value  of  Foods. 

Chemistry  and  Digestibility,  and 
How  to  Select  Foods. 

2.  Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables,  and 

Conservers  of  Staple  Foods. 

3.  Milk:  A  Cheap  Food. 

4.  Sugar:  A  Valuable  Food. 

5.  Fats:  Their  Use  in  the  Home. 

6.  Common  Sense  in  Modern  Cooking. 

7.  The  All-Convenient  Casserole,  and 

The  Use  of  the  Oven. 

8.  The  Fireless  Cooker. 

9.  Form  the  Olive  Oil  Habit. 


47 


THE  RELATIVE  VALUE  OF  FOODS 

Do  you  know  the  relative  value  of  the  foods  you  are  feeding  your  family? 
Do  you  know  whether  the  meals  administered  to-day  yield  as  much  nourishment 
as  the  ones  of  yesterday?  It  is  a  part  of  the  education  of  every  thorough  house- 
wife to  know  just  how  one  food  compares  with  another  as  to  its  nutritiousness. 
The  woman  who  has  no  comprehension  of  this  often  feeds  her  family  for  one 
week  meals  with  too  much  protein,  making  them  feel  heavy  and  stupid,  while  the 
whole  of  next  week's  meals  may  not  contain  as  much  real  value  as  one  single 
menu  from  the  preceding  week. 

A  Chart  Necessary. — You  should  consult  frequently  your  chart  of  food  values, 
and  when  you  go  out  of  a  morning  to  do  your  marketing  consider  your  chart  before  you 
decide  on  the  menus  for  the  day,  so  that  they  will  contain  the  proper  amount  of  nourish- 
ment. 

Fats  contain  more  energy  than  any  other  food,  but  their  work  is  slow.  The  fats  we 
consume  go  to  make  up  the  storehouse  of  our  physical  strength.  We  do  not  feel  any  imme- 
diate after-effect  from  eating  a  pork  chop,  a  few  slices  of  bacon  or  a  good  bit  of  butter,  but 
this  fat  enters  the  storehouse  of  our  bodies  and  stays  there  until  needed.  It  is  the  strength 
from  the  fatty  foods  that  we  draw  upon  in  time  of  illness.  When  we  cannot  eat  for  any 
length  of  time  the  body  lives  upon  the  energy  laid  up  in  reserve  from  the  fats  we  have 
taken  into  our  systems. 

Meats,  however,  contain  the  energy  for  our  daily  use.  We  need  a  daily  amount  of 
meats,  fish  or  eggs,  all  of  which  hold  the  same  kind  of  strength.  The  energy  in  meats  lasts 
through  one  day,  but  needs  replenishing  for  the  next. 

Vegetables  are  as  necessary  as  the  meats  and  fats.  Without  them  our  bodies  would 
become  clogged  from  the  fats  and  the  circulation  too  violent  from  the  meats.  Vegetables 
serve  to  clear  the  system  and  to  calm  the  blood. 

Mineral  Salts — Such  vegetables  as  spinach,  celery,  onions,  carrots,  etc.,  and  such 
fruits  as  rhubarb,  cranberries,  etc.,  contain  the  necessary  mineral  salts  which  act  as  tonics 
and  laxatives.  Each  one  has  its  special  office  and  its  own  particular  value.  Spinach,  for 
instance,  contains  a  great  deal  of  iron;  onions  and  celery  are  nerve  foods;  rhubarb  takes  the 
place  of  "sulphur  and  molasses"  for  clearing  the  blood,  and  cranberries  are  an  excellent  tonic. 

Making  Up  Menus — In  making  up  the  menus,  therefore,  you  must  be  careful  to  have 
them  balance  evenly.  You  should  not  have  too  much  fat  one  day,  too  much  starch  the 
next.  The  menus  for  one  day  should  hold  part  of  each  kind  of  food — one  meat  (fish  or 
eggs) ,  one  fat,  one  starch,  one  tonic  vegetable  and  one  laxative  or  fruit. 


MEAT  EATERS  OR  VEGETARIANS? 

For  many  hundreds  of  years  the  argument  has  been  bandied  back  and 
forth  as  to  whether  we  best  subsist  on  a  meat  or  vegetable  diet.  It  is  about  as 
absurd  as  whether  we  should  wear  hats  or  shoes.  Each  has  its  place.  It  is  not  a 
matter  of  classification  but  of  what  the  respective  foods  contain  and  how  they  are 
balanced  as  to  their  ingredients. 

The  most  vehement  partisan  of  the  meat  diet  will  admit  that  flesh  is  not  indispens- 
able to  our  existence.  And  it  is  well  known  that  the  original  Indian  inhabitants  of  this 
country  subsisted  for  many  months  at  a  time,  in  perfect  health,   solely  on   "pemmican   — dried 

49 


50  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 


buffalo  meat.  The  Esquimaux  can  live  entirely  on  whale  blubber;  they  could  not  subsist 
on  the  exclusive  fruit  diet  of  the  tropics.  Thus  climate  has  its  influence.  We  of  the  temper- 
ate zones  may  well  employ,  on  this  argument,  a  mixed  diet,  of  both  meats  and  vegetables. 

It  is  of  no  moment  that  the  rabid  advocate  of  each  extreme  can  point  to  any  number 
of  exceptional  cases,  to  prove  his  contentions — and  to  equally  numerous  ones  of  ill  results 
from  adherence  to  the  diet  the  particular  extremist  seeks  to  condemn. 

But  it  is  not  so  much  a  question  of  whether  the  source  of  the  food  is  meat  or  vege- 
tables; the  food  itself  is  the  albumen,  fats,  salts,  etc.,  that  are  extracted  in  the  process  of 
digestion. 

Nature  has  made  albumen  the  staple  of  nutrition  for  man.  Fruit  albumen  is  some- 
what more  assimilible  than  meat  albumen.  Hence  fruit  forms  nearly  a  perfect  food,  espe- 
cially as  it  also  furnishes  acids  and  salts  which  are  much  needed,  in  better  proportions  than 
meats. 

As  to  breads,  a  series  of  experiments  show  that  in  equal  portions  of  1  00  ounces  more 
of  white  bread  is  digested  than  brown  bread,  but  the  proportions  of  proteids,  which  are 
the  muscle- forming  contents,  85  Yl  ounces  out  of  1 00  is  digested  from  white  bread  against 
88  '/^  from  brown  bread.  The  brown  bread  is  therefore  more  valuable  in  the  item  of  digest- 
ibility of  its  protein  contents;  and  it  is  well  understood  that  whole-wheat  and  graham 
breads  contain  the  intensely  valuable  mineral  salts  which  are  largely  or  wholly  "refined" 
out  of  the  most  of  our  white  bread  in  the  flour-making  process. 

Nuts  are  an  excellent  diet  if  well  masticated.  They  are  highly  valuable  as  nut  but- 
ter or  nut  oils.  They  contain  a  large  percentage  of  proteids  as  well  as  fats,  in  almost  perfect 
purity.  They  are  deficient  in  starch,  but  so  are  meats.  Nuts  will  take  the  place  of  meats  to 
perfection.  But  nuts  must  be  masticated  thoroughly — something  seldom  done  with  nuts. 
And  they  are  really  too  concentrated  to  constitute  an  exclusive  diet;  they  do  not  give  the 
digestive  functions  proper  exercise.  Nature  demands  a  certain  amount  of  bulk,  especially  in 
the  intestinal  canal  to  excite  peristalsis  and  stimulate  bowel  movement. 

Vegetables  best  furnish  this  bulk — also  the  mineral  salts  needed  for  the  toning  up 
of  the  blood,  and  whole  wheat  bread,  because  of  the  bran,  is  of  value  in  this  regard — the 
stimulation  of  peristalsis. 

Food  Ingredients  are  classified  in  four  divisions:  1,  Proteins;  2,  Fats;  3,  Starches, 
or  Carbohydrates;  4,  Mineral  Salts.  The  classification  is  more  clearly  and  specifically  sub- 
divided as  per  chart  on  page  opposite. 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— THE  RELATIVE  VALUE  OF  FOODS 


51 


THE  CHIEF  FOOD  CONSTITUENTS 

NOTE:  The  following  charts  (and  reading  matter)  are  from  Iowa  State  College 
Home   Economics   Bulletin   No.     I 


Chief  Functions  in  the  Body 


I.       Protein . 


Meats 
Fish 

\Eggs 
JMilk 

\  Cheese 
)Peas 

Beans 

Gluten  in  Flour 


Build  tissues. 


I  Repair  daily  waste  of  tissue. 
Give  heat-energy. 


II.      Fats . 


Butter 

Cream 
I  Fat  of  Meats 
j  Cheese 
.  Oil  in  Nuts 

Olive   Oil 

'  Egg  Yolk 

Corn  Oil 

i  Seed   Oils 


Give  heat-energy. 


Produce  fat. 


III.       Carbohydrates . 


Sugars 


(Starches 


Celluloses 


Cane 

Beet 

Maple 

Malt 

Sugar  of  Milk 

Sugar  of  Fruit 

Cereals 
Flours 
Peas 
Beans 
Corn 
Potatoes 
And  some  othei 
vegetables 

Vegetables 
Fruits 


/Give   heat-energy. 


'  Produce  fat. 


Give  bulk. 


IV.       Mineral  Salts. 


Fruit  Acids 


Vegetables 


Aid  in  formation  of  bone. 

Enter  into  composition  of  every  living  cell 
and  body  liquids. 

Useful  in  the  blood  (carrier  of  body's  oxy- 
gen). 

Necessary  to  maintain  osmotic  pressure. 

Govern  contraction  of  muscles,  including 
those  of  the  heart. 

Help  to  maintain  neutrality  of  the  blood 
(increase  alkalinity). 

Assist  in  digestion. 

Assist  in  the  removal  of  waste. 

Unite  with  harmful  products  found  in  body 
and  render  them  harmless. 


V.      Water. 


I  In  all  Vegetables 
I  In  all  Animal  Foods 


'Solvent  for  food. 

Carries  food  to  blood. 

Carries  off  waste. 
I  Helps  to  regulate  temperature. 
'  Aids  digestion. 
,,  Aids  tissue  building. 


52 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  I— TALKS  ON  FOODS 


PROTEIN  FOODS 

The  first  class  of  foods,  the  proteins,  includes 
those  which  have  tissue  building  for  their  chief  pur- 
pose. They  are  essential  for  maintenance  and  for 
body  growth  as  they  are  the  only  source  of  nitro- 
gen. Therefore  they  are  necessary  for  the  growing 
child  and  for  the  athlete  in  the  development  of 
strong,  vigorous  muscles.  The  more  easily  digested 
protein  foods  are  advised  for  the  tubercular  patient 
whose  muscles  and  tissues  have  become  debilitated 
by  disease. 

Proteins  are  required  by  each  individual  but  in 
varying  amounts,  to  suit  age,  occupation,  condition 
of  system,  and  climate.  The  value  of  a  mixed  pro- 
tein diet  is  urged  by  the  best  authorities,  rather 
than  the  diet  which  contains  but  one  protein  food. 

OVER  USE  OF  PROTEIN  FOODS 

It  is  true  that  a  high  per  cent,  of  illness  is  caused 
by  an  accumulation  of  wastes  in  the  body.  It  is 
also  true  that  protein  foods  leave  a  higher  per  cent, 
of  waste  material  in  the  body  than  any  other  class 
of  foods.  It  follows,  then,  that  an  over-use  of  pro- 
tein foods  overworks  the  excretory  organs  and 
tends  to  weaken  them.  The  weakened  excretory 
organs  are  unable  to  take  care  of  the  waste  prod- 
ucts, and  as  a  result  the  system  is  affected  by  poi- 
sonous wastes  which  are  produced  by  putrefaction 
in  the  intestines.  A  person  in  this  condition  is 
more  liable  to  have  rheumatism,  gout,  kidney  and 
liver  diseases  than  one  in  normal  condition. 

A  SHORT  STUDY  OF  PROTEIN  FOODS 


Some  Common  Forms 

Albumen 

Casein 

Myosin,  fibrin  and  elastin 

Gluten 

Tuberin 

Legumin 

Excelsin 

Zein 


Some  Sources 

Eggs 

Milk 

Meat 

Wheat 

Potato 

Peas  and  beans 

Brazil  nuts 

Corn 


Milk  contains  a  small  amount  of  protein.  In  a 
glass  of  about  1  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  there  is  less 
than   I   tablespoon  of  protein. 

Egg  contains  nearly  as  much  protein  as  lean 
meat. 

Fish  and  meat  are  approximately  equal  so  far  as 
amount  of  protein  and  digestibility  are  concerned. 
Experiments  show  very  little  difference. 

Cheese  varies  in  protein  content  from  18  to  25 
per  cent.  Cheese  is  a  valuable  food  but  should  be 
used  wisely.  It  is  not  the  food  for  children  or  for 
those  of  delicate  digestion. 

Peas,  dried,  contain  24.6  per  cent,  of  protein. 
Green  peas,   cooked,   contain  6.7  per  cent. 

Lima  beans,  dried,  contain  18.1  per  cent.;  green 
lima  beans,   7.1    per  cent. 


Wheat  contains  protein  in  the  form  of  gluten. 
Bread  flour  contains  more  of  gluten  than  pastry 
flour. 

IMPORTANT  STEPS   IN  DIGESTION 
OF  PROTEIN 

Proteins. 

Meta  proteins. 

Proteoses. 

Peptones. 

Peptids. 

Amino-acids. 

The  action  of  digestive  agents  results  in  the 
final  breaking  down  into  the  simple  "building 
stones"  called  amino  acids.  They  are  spoken  of 
as  "building  stones"  because  they  are  stored  away 
and  used  in  the  building  of  new  protein  tissue. 
The  digestion  of  proteins  is  a  complex  process  and 
cannot  be  accomplished  except  with  perfect  co- 
operation between  the  digestive,  circulatory,  ex- 
cretory,  respiratory,  and  nervous  systems. 

FATS   AND   CARBOHYDRATES 
(Chief  Fuel  Foods) 

Under  this  head  consideration  will  first  be  given 
to  the  class  of  foods  spoken  of  in  the  outline  as  fats. 
These  foods  produce  heat-energy  in  the  body,  very 
much  as  wood  and  coal  produce  heat  in.  the  stove. 
Fats  and  carbohydrates  are  also  of  value  as  fatty 
tissue  builders  but  their  chief  function  is  the  pro- 
duction of  heat. 

Energy  value  to  the  body — 9  calories  per  gram, 
or  4082  calories  per  pound.  Fats  have  more  than 
twice  the  energy  value  of  protein  or  carbohydrate. 
Butter,  egg-fat  and  cod  liver  oil  are  especially  valu- 
able fats  for  growth  because  of  certain  elements 
which  they  contain.  The  amount  of  fat  required 
depends  upon,  condition  of  system,  amount  and 
kind  of  work  done,  age,  climatic  condition  and 
amount  of  carbohydrate  used. 

Amount  Required 

The  good  housekeeper  regulates  the  amount  of 
wood  or  coal  to  suit  the  climatic  conditions.  She 
would  be  considered  a  very  unwise  manager  if  she 
used  wood  and  coal  enough  to  keep  her  stove  red 
hot  in  the  summer  time.  This  would  be  a  waste  of 
both  fuel  and  stove.  The  housekeeper  makes  a 
much  more  serious  mistake  when  she  provides  just 
as  much  fuel  food  in  summer  as  in  winter.  This 
practice  results  in  waste  of  food  and  injury  to  the 
body. 

The  foods  classed  under  the  head  of  fats  are 
most  easily  digested  when  uncooked;  for  example, 
cream,  butter,  olive  oil,  and  egg  yolk.  For  this 
reason,  these  particular  fats  are  advised  for  the 
person  whose  system  has  become  weakened  by  ill- 
ness or  overwork.  These  fats  are  readily  digested 
and  give  heat  very  readily. 

Well  cooked  bacon  is  also  a  very  easily  digested 
fat. 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— THE  RELATIVE  VALUE  OF  FOODS 


53 


Other  foods  that  are  important  as  heat  producers 
are  other  forms  of  fat  meat,  nuts,  and  eggs.  Baked 
beans  with  pork  provide  a  kind  of  food  which  is 
most  wisely  used  in  cold  weather  by  active,  strong 
adults. 

The  second  class  of  fuel  foods,  given  in  the  out- 
line, is  carbohydrates.  They  occur  in  starch,  sugar, 
and  celluloses. 

Proteins  also  furnish  fuel,  but  their  chief  func- 
tion is  tissue  building.  It  would  be  unwise  to 
supply  the  fuel  needs  of  the  body  with  proteins  be- 
cause of  the  expense  and  the  greater  tax  on  the 
system. 

The  principal  starchy  foods  are  the  cereals; 
rice,  corn,  wheat,  oats,  barley,  rye.  Peas,  beans, 
and  potatoes  also  supply  starch.  In  the  chart  fol- 
lowing it  may  be  seen  that  the  potato  contains  less 
starch  than  is  ordinarily  considered  since  about 
three-fourths  of  the  potato  is  water. 

The  other  vegetables  that  are  of  special  value  as 
fuel  foods  are  sweet  potatoes,  parsnips,  beets,  car- 
rots,  and  squash. 

Some  fruits  may  properly  enter  into  this  list  be- 
cause of  the  high  per  cent,  of  starch  and  sugars 
they  contain.  Fruits  containing  sugars  are  prunes, 
dates,  figs,  raisins,  apricots.  Bananas  contain 
starch  and  sugars. 

Over-Use  of  Carbohydrates 

If  too  much  sugar  and  starch  are  eaten,  fer- 
mentation may  take  place  and  interfere  with  diges- 
tion. Too  much  sugar  and  starch  overworks  the 
liver. 

Because  sweet  foods  have  the  quality  of  satisfying 
the  appetite  very  readily,  they  should  not  be  taken 
to  satisfy  hunger  but  should  rather  be  eaten  after 
sufficient  body  building  and  body  regulating  foods 
have  been  taken  to  meet  the  body's  need  for  such 
foods.  The  custom  of  serving  the  sweet  food  at 
the  last  of  the  meal  is  in  harmony  with  this  dietetic 
principle. 

It  is  important  that  children  should  form  sane 
habits  of  eating  sweet  foods.  The  practice  of  using 
large  amounts  of  sugar  on  cereals,  cooked  fruits 
and  in  beverages  should  be  discouraged. 

The  over-use  of  sugar  irritates  the  lining  of  the 
digestive  tract.  This  is  caused  by  the  abstraction 
of  water  from  the  mucuous  lining.  Sugar  is  one- 
sided in  its  value,  consequently  it  is  much  wiser  to 
obtain  a  high  per  cent,  of  heat  from  foods  which 
serve   other  purposes  as  well. 

VALUE  OF  FRUIT  AND  VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  contain  protein,  starch,  sugar,  cellu- 
lose, mineral  matter,  water  and  undetermined 
substances. 

Fruits  contain  (chiefly)  sugar,  cellulose,  mineral 
matter,   and  water. 

Water  removes  wastes,  lubricates  tissues,  aids  in 
forming  secretions,  helps  to  equalize  the  tempera- 
ture. 


Acids  help  to  maintain  the  alkalinity  of  the  blood 
— stimulate  the  appetite. 

Mineral  Salts. 

Build  bone. 

Help  to  make  blood  alkaline. 

Aid  in  digestion. 

Aid  in  excretion. 

Build  red  blood  cells. 

Build  nerve  tissue. 

Build  cells. 

Cellulose  exercises  muscular  lining  of  digestive 
tract. 

Note:  Good  authority  makes  the  statement  that 
the  housekeeper  is  wise  who  pays  as  much  for 
milk,  vegetables,  and  fruit  as  for  meat,  eggs,  and 
fish. 

PROTEINS  BUILD  AND  REPAIR  TISSUE- 
YIELD  HEAT-ENERGY 
Chief    Tissue-Building    Vegetables 

Peas,    dried     24. 

Beans,    dried     22.5 

Cowpeas,   dried    21.4 

Lima   beans,   dried    1 8. 1 

— Sherman. 

Carbohydrates  Give  Heat-Energy 

Chief  heat-energy-giving  vegetables,  cereals,  and 
fruits:   (Per  cent,  in  edible  portion.) 

Per  Cent. 

Vegetable  Car. 

Sweet  potatoes 27.4 

Lima   beans    (green) 22. 

Corn    (green)     19.7 

Potatoes    (white)     1 8.4 

Peas    (green)     1 6.9 

Parsnips     1 3.5 

Beets     9.7 

Carrots 9.3 

Per  Cent. 

Grain   Products  Car. 

Rice     79. 

Hominy    79. 

Buckwheat   flour    77.9 

Pearl    Barley    77.8 

Spaghetti    76.3 

Corn   Meal    (granular) 75.4 

Wheat  Flour   (high   grade)  .  .  .  74.9 

Macaroni      74. 1 

Rye    Meal    71.5 

Oatmeal      67.5 

Per  Cent. 
Fruits  Car. 

Dates    (dried)     78.4 

Raisins    (dried)     76.1 

Figs    (dried)     74.2 

Figs    (fresh)     1 8.8 

Prunes    (dried)     73.3 

Bananas    (fresh)     22.0 

Plums    (fresh)     20.1 

Grapes   (fresh)    1 9.2 

Huckleberries    (fresh)     16.6 

Apples    (fresh)     1 4.2 

Compiled  from   "Food   Products." — Sherman. 


54         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  I— TALKS  ON  FOODS 


CELLULOSES 
Celluloses  Exercise  Muscles 

Chief    cellulose-giving    foods: 


Refuse 
Per  Cent. 

Corn    (green) 61 

Beans    (Lima,   fresh)     55 
Beans     (butter)  ....     50 

Squash    50 

Peas     (green) 45 

Beets     (fresh) 20 

Carrots    20 

Celery    20 


Refuse 
Per  Cent. 

Parsnips 20 

Potatoes     20 

Sweet  Potatoes    ....    20 

Cucumbers     15 

Lettuce     15 

Cabbage     (fresh)...     15 

Onions     10 

Sherman. 


IMPORTANCE   OF   FRUITS   AND   VEGETABLES 
Mineral  Matter 

I.  Iron  Helps  to  Build  Red  Corpuscles  and  is  a 
Part  of  all  Active  Tissues. 

Chief  iron-giving  vegetables,  arranged  according 
to  per  cent,  of  iron,  or  ash  constituents  of  foods  in 
grams,  per   100  calories  of  edible  food  material: 

1.  Spinach     0133  8.  Beans  (dried)    .002 

2.  Lettuce     005  9.  Beans    (lima)    .0019 

3.  Asparagus     ..    .0043  1 0.  Squash     0017 

4.  Beans  (string)    .0038  1  1 .  Tomatoes     ..    .0017 

5.  Cabbage     ...    .0035  1 2.  Carrots 0016 

6.  Celery     0027  13.  Turnips 0013 

7.  Radishes     ...    .002  1 4.  Onions     0011 


II.    Calcium   Helps  to   Build   Bone   and   is   i 
of  Liquids  and  all  Active  Tissues. 
Chief  bone-building  vegetables: 

1 .  Cauliflower    .    .55  1  1 .  Parsnips     ... 

2.  Celery     54  12.  Onions     .... 

3.  Spinach 37  13.  Cucumbers     . 

4.  Lettuce 26  14.  Tomatoes   .  .  . 

5.  Turnips 222  I  5.  Beans  (dried) 

6.  Cabbage     ...    .2 1 4  16.  Beets    

7.  Beans  (string)    .177  1  7.  Peas     (fresh) 

8.  Asparagus    ..    .17  1 8.  Squash     

9.  Radishes     ..       .17  1 0.  Beans     (lima) 
10.  Carrots     168  20.    Potatoes    ... 


Part 


.14 

.12 

.12 

.087 

.063 

.06 

.032 

.04 

.028 

.019 


III.    Phosphorus  Helps  to 
and  is  a  Part  of  Liquids. 

Chief    phosphorus-giving 

1.  Spinach     54 

2.  Celery 54 

'},  Lettcce     47 

4.  Cucumbers     .  .45 

5.  Cauliflower    .  .45 

6.  Asparagus    ..  .39 

7.  Beans  (dried)  .326 

8.  Rutabagas    .  .  .31 

9.  Radishes     ...  .30 
10.  Turnips     292 

Note:    All    minerals    aid 
processes. 


Build  all  Active  Tissues 


egetable 


1. 

Cowpeas     .  .  . 

.29 

.2. 

Parsnips     .  .  . 

.29 

13. 

String    beans. 

.284 

14. 

Cabbage     .  .  . 

.28 

15. 

Tomatoes     .  . 

.257 

16. 

Peas     (dried) 

.25 

17. 

Peas    (fresh). 

.24 

18. 

.24 

19. 

.22 

20. 

Potatoes     . .  . 

.166 

Sherman. 

in    regulation    of    body 


CHOICE  OF  FOODS  TO  SUIT  NEEDS 
OF  FAMILY 

In    connection    with    the    discussion    of    classes    of 
foods,    some  suggestions  have    been    given    with    re- 


gard to  choice  of  foods  to  suit  the  needs  of  the 
family.  For  example,  if  the  family  includes  a  child 
of  4  years,  an  active  boy  of  1  2,  an  office  girl  of  20, 
the  father,  who  is  an  active  outdoor  worker,  and 
an  aged  person  of  90,  these  different  members  of 
the    family    require   different   kinds    of   food. 

Suggestions  given  indicate  that  the  child  of  4 
and  the  person  of  90  require  more  nearly  the  same 
kind  and  amount  of  food  than  any  other  two 
members  of  the  family.  They  require  simply 
digested  food  in  small  amounts.  Both  will  thrive 
better  if  they  have  5  very  simple  meals  a  day 
rather  than  3  heavy  ones.  Five  simple  meals  a 
day  means  a  very  light  breakfast  of  perhaps  some 
fruit  and  well-cooked  cereal.  The  second  meal 
at  1  0  o'clock  may  consist  of  a  glass  of  milk  with  a 
little  bread.  The  third  meal  at  noon  may  be  an 
egg,  a  baked  potato,  and  apple  sauce.  The  fourth 
meal  at  3  o'clock  may  be  something  equivalent  to 
the  meal  at  1 0  o'clock,  and  the  fifth  meal  at  6 
o'clock  may  be  some  bread  and  butter  and  a  baked 
apple  with  a   glass  of  milk. 

If  this  family  includes  a  semi-invalid,  the  prob- 
lem will  be  made  much  more  complicated.  One 
who  is  weak  bodily  because  of  disease  or  over- 
work should  take  easily  digested  foods  in  moderate 
amount.  Foods  suitable  for  a  person  in  that  con- 
dition are  also  suitable  for  a  child  from  3  to  6 
years.  Such  foods  include  milk,  cream,  butter, 
eggs,  thoroughly  baked  bread,  well  cooked  vege- 
tables and  cereals,  fruit,  crisp  bacon,  with  choco- 
late or  coca  as  a  beverage  occasionally.  From  this 
list,  a  variety  of  menus  can  be  worked  out.  If 
these  foods  are  particularly  good  for  a  young  child, 
and  a  semi-invalid,  it  must  follow  that  the  more 
closely  this  list  is  followed  for  the  active  adult,  the 
more  wisely  the  digestive  system  is  treated. 

Simple,  well  cooked  foods  are  the  most  import- 
ant. Serve  a  few  dishes  at  one  meal  and  make 
the  meals  as  varied  as  possible.  In  general  cost  of 
food,  age,  occupation,  climatic  conditions  and  ab- 
normal conditions  are  the  points  which  must  be 
considered  in  order  that  the  family  may  be  fed  as 
wisely  as  it  is  possible  for  it  to  be  fed. 

Endeavor  to  distribute  the  protein,  fat,  and  car- 
bohydrate through  the  day  so  that  no  meal  will 
have  a  striking  preponderance  of  one  kind  of  food- 
stuff. 

For  example,  meat  served  with  macaroni  and 
cheese  concentrates  the  protein  in  one  meal,  pota- 
toes with  rice  concentrate  the  starch,  and  fried 
potatoes   and   pie   concentrate   the   fat. 

With  the  exception  of  a  few  such  staples  as 
bread,  butter,  and  milk,  try  to  avoid  serving  any 
food  in  the  same  form  twice  in  the  same  day. 

Try  to  avoid  serving  any  food  which  gives  char- 
acter to  a  dish  twice  in  the  same  meal,  even  in 
different  forms.  Do  not,  for  instance,  select  tomato 
soup  and  tomato   salad  for  the  same   meal. 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— THE  RELATIVE  VALUE  OF  FOODS  55 

At  each  meal,  seek  contrasts  between  successive  In    each    course    endeavor    to    have    harmonious 

courses,   a  bland   course  being   followed  by  a   more  combinations,    as    to    flavor,    color,    form    and    tex- 

highly   flavored    course,    and    vice    versa,    to    give    a  ture.     As  the  number  of  courses  increases,  decrease 

pleasing  combination.  the   number  of  dishes   and   size   of   serving  in   each. 

SUMMARY 

Do    not    provide    too    much    muscle-building    food  youth,   extreme  age,  and  abnormal   conditions.      Do 

for  one  meal.      Do  not  provide  too  much  fuel  food  not  serve  too   many  foods  of  pronounced   flavor  at 

for  one  meal.      Do  not  fail  to  provide  bulk  by  means  1        r->  i  1         ■        ,  ,  ., 

.  .      .  ,  ■  i       •         -i-  i       r-v  t   -i  one    meal.      Do    not    neglect    the    simple    and    easily 

of  fruits  and  vegetables  just  indicated.      L/o  not  rail 

to  provide   something   of   characteristic   flavor.      Do  prepared  dishes  in  order  to  serve  those  more  elab- 

not   fail   to    consider  the    especial   needs   of  extreme  orately  prepared. 


56  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 

(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


HOW  TO  SELECT  FOOD 
GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS 

From  "What  the  Body  Needs." 
Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  808.      U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 

It  is  believed  that  it  is  impossible  to  plan  the  meals  for  a  family  wisely 
without  at  least  as  much  knowledge  of  how  different  kinds  of  food  serve  the 
body  as  the  above  bulletin  gives  and  that  the  safest  short  cut  to  good  planning  lies 
in  considering  foods  in  the  five  groups  therein  described.  Ways  of  making  econ- 
omical use  of  the  materials  in  each  group  cannot  be  here  discussed,  but  a  few  gen- 
eral suggestions  for  getting  the  most  for  one's  money  in  the  matter  of  food  may 
be  given. 

Use  cereals  (flour,  meal,  cereal  breakfast  foods,  etc.)  freely,  taking  pains  to  prepare 
them  with  great  care  and  to  vary  the  kind  used  from  day  to  day  if  necessary  to  keep  people 
from  tiring  of  them. 

Remember  that  a  quart  of  whole  milk  a  day  for  each  child,  to  be  used  as  a  beverage 
and  in  cookery,  is  not  too  much. 

Remember  that  -while  skim  milk  should  never  be  substituted  for  whole  milk  as  the 
principal  food  in  a  child's  diet,  it  is  as  valuable  as  whole  milk  as  a  source  of  protein  and 
mineral  matters  in  the  general  diet. 

Remember  that  except  in  the  case  of  milk  for  children,  the  amount  needed  of  foods 
specially  useful  for  body-building  purposes — that  is,  meat  and  meat  substitutes,  fruits  and 
vegetables — is  not  large,  but  what  is  needed  is  needed  very  much. 

Do  not  be  ashamed  to  plan  closely.  Thrift  in  food  means  providing  enough  food, 
neither  too  little  nor  too  much. 

Notice  carefully  how  much  of  such  staples  as  flour,  sugar,  milk,  cooking  fat,  etc.,  is 
used  each  week  for  a  month,  and  see  if  there  are  any  ways  of  cutting  down  the  quantity  con- 
sumed. 

Buy  non-perishable  materials  in  quantity  if  better  prices  can  be  secured  and  there  is 
a  good  storage  place  in  the  house.  Neighbors  can  sometimes  club  together  to  get  lower 
prices. 

Try  to  make  the  dishes  served  of  such  size  that  there  will  be  enough  to  satisfy  the 
appetite  of  the  family  and  no  unnecessary  table  and  plate  waste. 

Do  not  be  above  noticing  whether  anything  usable  is  thrown  away  with  the  garbage, 
which  always  shows  how  thriftily  food  is  used  in  the  home. 

Many  inexpensive  materials  can  be  made  attractive,  and  the  diet  can  be  pleasantly 
varied  by  the  use  of  different  flavorings. 

"Finicky"  tastes  in  food  often  prevent  the  use  of  many  valuable  materials  which 
might  be  the  means  of  saving  money. 

Good  food  habits  are  an  important  part  of  personal  hygiene  and  thrift.  Children 
get  such  habits  by  having  suitable  amounts  of  suitable  foods  served  to  them  and  then  being 
expected  to  eat  what  is  set  before  them. 

True  economy  lies  not  alone  in  buying  wisely  but  also  in  making  the  fullest  possible 
use  of  what  is  bought. 

57 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

CONSERVERS    OF    OTHER   STAPLE   FOODS 

(Extracts  from  Farmers'  Bulletin  871,   U.  S.   Department  of  Agriculture) 

Under  the  present  unusual  conditions,  when  it  is  desirable  to  save  staple 
foods,  and  to  reduce  the  amount  of  labor  expended  in  transporting  foods,  special 
attention  should  be  given  to  the  possibility  of  using  perishable  food  materials,  par- 
ticularly vegetables  and  fruits,  near  the  place  of  their  production.  The  use  of 
these  foods  can  be  increased  without  lessening  the  food  value  or  attractiveness  of 
the  diet  or  seriously  altering  food  habits. 

In  general  peas,  beans  and  similar  legumes  would  be  the  most  useful  as 
protein  (meat)  savers;  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes  and  similar  vegetables  as  starch 
savers;  and  fruits  and  sweet  potatoes  as  possible  sugar  savers,  while  all  fruits  and 
green  and  succulent  vegetables  are  valuable  to  supply  the  diet  with  mineral  sub- 
stances, and  with  certain  substances  essential  to  health  which  are  present  in  them 
and  in  many  other  foods  in  minute  amounts.  When  vegetables  are  used  to  supply 
protein,  it  is  important  to  supplement  them  with  other  food  containing  protein, 
and  for  this  purpose  milk,  and  particularly  skim  milk  (so  often  a  by-product,  and  a 
perishable  one  as  well)   is  important. 

USES  OF  FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  IN  THE  ORDINARY  DIET 

Under  ordinary  conditions,  1  to  1  Ya  pounds  of  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  (the 
equivalent  of  an  apple  or  an  orange,  two  medium-sized  potatoes  and  an  average  sized  help- 
ing of  some  other  vegetable)  is  probably  all  that  even  a  grown  person  really  needs  in  the 
course  of  a  day.  He  may  desire  more  because  of  their  fine  flavor  or  refreshing  character, 
but  the  necessary  health-promoting  substances  would  probably  be  obtained  from  the  amount 
mentioned.  These  supply  less  than  a  tenth  of  all  the  fuel  and  the  protein  needed,  but  a  rela- 
tively large  part  of  the  iron,  calcium  and  phosphorus. 

USES  OF  FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  IN  EMERGENCY  DIET 

In  an  emergency,  when  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  are  relatively  abundant  they  may 
with  advantage  be  used  partly  to  replace  cereals  and  sugar,  and  to  a  less  extent  meat.  Under 
such  circumstances  it  is  the  part  of  wisdom  to  examine  the  list  of  fruits  and  vegetables  and 
v.o  see  which  can  be  used  in  a  way  so  as  to  save  cereals  or  sugar,  and  which  used  in  such  a 
way  as  to  save  meat. 

Fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  can  be  used  in  large  quantities  with  little  danger,  provid- 
ing they  are  carefully  cleaned  and  handled.  It  is  even  safe  to  say  that  there  is  absolutely  no 
danger  from  the  fruits  and  vegetables  themselves,  the  only  real  difficulty  lying  in  the  fact  that 
being  bulky  they  quickly  satisfy  the  appetite  and  sometimes  lead  people  to  believe  they  are 
supplied  and  to  leave  out  of  their  diet  the  more  substantial  foods — meats,  cereals,  etc. — which 
are  needed  either  for  fuel  or  for  body-building  purposes.  This  fact  should  always  be  kept 
in  mind  in  finding  uses  for  these  bulky  foods. 

58 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  59 

CLASSIFICATION  OF  STAPLE  FOOD  SAVERS 

Meat  Savers — Shelled  green  peas,  shelled  green  beans  (Lima,  kidney,  etc.), 
shelled  green  cowpeas  (common  in  the  South)  shelled  green  soy  beans  (common 
in  the  South). 

Cereal  Savers — Potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  partially  ripe  bananas   (cooked). 

Sugar  Savers — Sweet  potatoes,  all  fruits. 

USING  SHELLED  GREEN  BEANS  AND  PEAS  TO  SAVE  MEAT 

Beans  and  peas  contain  more  protein  than  other  fresh  vegetables.  This,  however,  is 
not  the  same  as  the  proteins  of  meat,  milk  or  egg,  and  should  not  be  used  to  the  exclusion  of 
the  others.  When,  however,  beans  and  peas  are  freely  used,  less  meat,  milk  and  eggs  are 
needed.  For  these  reasons  these  vegetables  are  here  called,  not  meat  substitutes  but  meat 
savers.  The  following  foods  or  combinations  of  foods,  supply  as  much  protein  as  one-fourth 
pound  of  beef  of  average  composition: 

Eight  or  nine  ounces  of  shelled  green  peas  or  beans.  A  large  dish  of  green  peas  may 
be  used  in  place  of  meat  for  dinner  occasionally.  Many  persons  like  peas  cooked  with  mint 
or  served  with  mint  sauce. 

One  egg  and  4  or  5  ounces  of  shelled  green  peas  or  beans.  An  omelet  with  peas 
( 1  egg  and  1  cup  peas  per  person)  or  a  baked  pea  or  bean  souffle  may  be  used  as  a  meat 
substitute. 

One  cup  skim  milk  and  4  ounces  shelled  green  peas  or  beans.  A  Lima  bean  chow- 
der made  with  skim  milk  is  a  good  lunch  or  supper  dish. 

USING  POTATOES  TO  SAVE  CEREALS 

A  small  potato  (3  to  4  ounces)  supplies  as  much  starch  as  a  large  slice  of  bread 
( 1  ounce)  but  rather  less  protein.  Potatoes  eaten  abundantly  make  it  possible  to  get  along 
with  less  bread.  Potatoes  can  be  substituted  for  about  one-fourth  of  the  wheat  flour  used  in 
making  ordinary  bread  and  rolls.  Recipes  are  given  in  the  BREAD  Section  of  this  book;  also 
in  Farmers'  Bulletin  807,  Department  of  Agriculture.  These  call,  however,  for  old  rather 
than  new  potatoes.  Mashed  potatoes  may  be  used  in  place  of  biscuit  crust  in  making  meat 
pies.  Mashed  potato  sliced  and  fried  may  be  used  in  place  of  bread  and  butter  and  makes 
a  good  breakfast  dish.  A  very  large  variety  of  attractive  salads  may  be  made  by  combining 
potatoes  with  other  vegetables — peas,  beans,  beets,  cucumbers,  radishes,  onions,  etc.  Cot- 
tage cheese  and  potato  salad  go  well  together.  This  cheese  has  always  been  made  in  small 
quantities  in  the  home,  and  now  the  Department  of  Agriculture  is  recommending  to  dairy- 
men that  they  make  it  as  a  means  of  utilizing  their  large  quantities  of  skim  milk.  This  should 
make  cottage  cheese  a  more  common  article  of  trade  than  it  has  been  in  the  past. 

Sweet  potatoes  can  be  used  in  the  same  way  as  white  potatoes.  Bananas  baked  or 
fried  supply  considerable  starch,  though  the  amount  cannot  be  exactly  stated,  because  as  the 
fruit  ripens  the  starch  changes  to  sugar.  Green  bananas  peeled  and  boiled  can  be  used  like 
mashed  potatoes,  or  may  be  sliced  raw  and  fried. 

USING  FRUITS  TO  SAVE  SUGAR 

All  ripe  fruits  contain  sugar.  The  amount  varies  from  about  3  ounces  to  one-fifth 
cup  per  pound  in  fresh  figs  and  plums  to  about  one-half  ounce  per  pound  in  watermelon. 

If  the  water  is  driven  off  from  fruits,  as  in  the  drying  process,  the  sugar  becomes  far 
more  prominent  than  it  is  in  fresh  fruits.  Dried  fruits  therefore  taste  far  sweeter  than  fresh 
ones  and  are  for  this  reason  often  classed  among  the  sweets.     It  should  be  remembered,  how- 


60  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 

ever,  that  sugar  is  present  in  all  fresh  fruits,  even  in  the  most  acid  ones,  and  that  those  per- 
sons who  wish  to  do  so  can  combine  or  economize  on  other  kinds  of  sugar  by  eating  large 
amounts  of  fresh  fruits  in  unsweetened  forms. 

In  warm  weather  melons  and  other  fruits  may  be  used  in  place  of  "made"  desserts, 
which  usually  contain  both  butter  and  sugar.  Fruit  and  ice-cold  junket,  which  can  be  pre- 
pared from  skim-milk,  make  a  refreshing  dessert  and  utilize  perishable  foods  chiefly.  Or  the 
dessert  course  may  be  omitted  entirely  and  a  fruit  salad  with  cottage  cheese  may  be  used  in 
its  place. 

CONCLUSION 

When  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  are  abundant  and  cheap  they  can  be  used  in  large 
enough  amounts  to  effect  an  important  saving  of  staple  foods.  If  used  intelligently,  there  is 
no  danger  that  the  diet  will  lack  fuel  or  protein.  Fresh  legumes  may  be  used  to  a  certain 
extent  in  place  of  meat,  potatoes  in  place  of  bread,  and  fruit  in  place  of  sugar.  In  connection 
with  these  foods,  however,  it  is  safe  and  highly  desirable  to  use  skim  milk  and  its  products, 
■which  like  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  are  perishable  and  can  be  profitably  used  near  the 
place  of  production. 


MILK:  A  CHEAP  FOOD 

From   Lesson    III.,    Food    Series,    Cornell    Reading  Course   for  the   Farm   Home    (Extracts) 

College   of   Agriculture,    Ithaca,    N.    Y. 

Milk  is  a  cheap  food.  Furthermore,  in  any  family  dietary  where  the  welfare 
of  children  as  well  as  of  adults  is  intelligently  considered,  it  is  almost  a  necessity. 

The  proof  that  milk  is  a  cheap  food  is  not  in  the  price  paid  for  the  quart. 
Even  at  fifteen  or  twenty  cents  a  quart  milk  is  a  cheap  source  of  certain  nutritive 
substances  always  needed  by  the  body,  and  particularly  needed  during  the  growth 
period. 

The  increasing  cost  of  many  common  foods  leads  to  a  temptation  to  reduce 
expenses  by  excluding  those  foods  the  prices  of  which  seem  prohibitive.  It  is  an 
altogether  unsafe  practice,  because  the  food  thus  eliminated  may  be,  in  spite  of  its 
seeming  high  cost,  the  cheapest  possible  source  of  some  nutritive  substance  neces- 
sary to  the  health  and  welfare  of  the  body. 

A  study  of  the  value  of  milk  as  a  food  and  the  particular  part  it  should  play 
in  the  dietary  will  serve  as  an  illustration  of  the  method  that  should  be  followed  in 
determining  the  right  of  any  food  to  a  place  in  the  daily  meals. 


IS  MILK  A  CHEAP  SOURCE  OF  ENERGY? 

The  energy  that  a  food  may  yield  is  measured  in  terms  of  the  Calorie.  The  greater 
number  of  Calories  a  digestible  food  will  furnish  for  a  given  amount  of  money,  the  cheaper 
the  food  as  a  source  of  energy. 

If  ten  cents  be  spent  and  the  particular  need  to  be  considered  is  that  of  energy,  the 
problem  is  how  to  invest  the  ten  cents  in  order  to  buy  the  most  energy. 

Even  figures  showing  energy  values,  however,  must  not  influence  one  too  much  in 
estimating  the  cost  of  milk  as  an  energy  food,  since  two  of  the  main  sources  of  energy  in 
milk,  milk-fat  and  milk-sugar,  besides  their  ability  to  yield  energy,  seem  to  have  further  sig- 
nificance in  the  dietary.  Milk-sugar  is  believed  to  be  of  importance  in  holding  in  check  putre- 
factive changes  in  the  contents  of  the  large  intestine.  This  is  particularly  important  in  the 
case  of  the  infant  or  young  child  who  may  be  very  susceptible  to  the  injurious  action  of 
abnormal  substances  produced  in  the  food  canal.  The  fat  of  milk  contains  an  unknown  sub- 
stance essential  for  growth,  and  occurring  in  but  few  foods  in  amounts  sufficient  to  promote 
normal  growth.  In  considering  the  cost  of  milk  as  a  source  of  energy,  therefore,  it  is  not 
entirely  fair  to  forget  these  characteristics  of  two  of  its  energy-yielding  substances,  since  they 
play  so  important  a  part  in  human  welfare,  and  particularly  in  the  welfare  of  growing  children. 


THE  PROTEIN  IN  MILK 

The  criticism  sometimes  indulged  in  of  the  cost  of  protein  in  milk,  based  entirely  on 
comparative  tables  of  protein  contents  only,  would  be  convincing  if  it  were  not  for  the  cer- 
tain facts  recently  made  clear  about  protein.  Protein  is  a  name  given  to  a  group  of  sub- 
stances differing  rather  widely  in  their  value  to  the  body.  Two  foods  may  contain  the  same 
amount  of  protein ;  but  an  ounce  of  the  protein  from  the  first  food  may  be  much  more  valu- 
able in  building  and  repairing  tissue  than  an  ounce  of  the  protein  from  the  second   food. 

61 


62  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 

Milk  is  a  decidedly  superior  source  of  protein  for  general  human  consumption  and  is  a  par- 
ticularly good  source  where  growth  is  taking  place;  the  amount  of  protein  required  in  the 
daily  dietary  may  be  less  if  milk  forms  a  considerable  part  of  the  diet  than  if  such  foods  as 
cereals  are  mainly  depended  on;    milk  is  not  an  expensive  source  of  protein. 

MILK  AS  A  SOURCE  OF  LIME 

Milk  as  a  protein-yielding  food  can  be  replaced  in  the  dietary  more  easily  than  milk 
as  a  lime-yielding  food.  Comparatively  few  common  foods  contain,  in  the  amounts  that  can 
be  eaten  and  digested  by  a  child,  a  sufficient  quantity  of  lime  to  provide  for  normal  growth 
and  health. 

Milk  is  the  richest  in  available  lime  of  all  the  common  foods,  and  its  absence  in  the 
family  dietary  or  its  use  in  very  limited  quantities  may  prove  to  be  an  expensive  procedure 
as  well  as  an  unsafe  one.  The  abundance  of  lime  in  milk  makes  it  at  eight  cents  a  quart  the 
cheapest  possible  source  of  lime,  and  at  even  fifteen  or  twenty  cents  a  quart  a  very  cheap 
source  of  lime. 

When  therefore  in  a  family  having  growing  children  the  statement  is  made  that  the 
increasing  cost  of  milk  must  cause  a  reduction  in  the  amount  of  milk  used,  the  housekeeper 
should  be  urged  to  consider  the  lime  needs  of  the  children  before  she  seeks  to  reduce  expenses 
in  this  way. 

Of  course  if  all  members  of  the  family  are  adults,  a  lessened  amount  of  milk  may  not 
be  serious,  but  even  here  thought  must  be  given  to  provide  lime  in  other  foods  in  order  that 
adult  welfare  may  not  be  impaired. 

MILK  AS  A  SOURCE  OF  PHOSPHORUS  AND  IRON 

Milk  is  comparatively  rich  in  phosphorus  as  well  as  in  lime,  and  forms  an  important 
and  cheap  source  of  this  valuable  element.  Milk  is  low  in  iron,  and  when  it  forms  any  con- 
siderable part  of  the  diet  it  should  be  associated  with  foods  rich  in  iron.  In  spite  of  its  low 
iron  content,  it  is  an  important  food  to  use  when  the  blood  is  low  in  iron,  because  lime  in  food 
is  believed  to  increase  the  ability  of  the  body  to  utilize  iron.  The  question  is  frequently  raised: 
Why,  if  milk  is  low  in  iron,  does  a  baby  thrive  on  it  so  well  as  the  only  source  of  nutriment? 
The  answer  is  found  in  the  fact  that  at  birth  the  healthy  baby  has  a  stored  surplus  of  iron  in 
its  body,  which  normally  will  last  it  through  a  period  of  nine  to  twelve  months  of  maternal 
nursing. 

IS  MILK  A  CHEAP  SOURCE  OF  BODY-REGULATING  SUBSTANCES? 

The  term  body-regulating  substances  is  used  to  cover  all  the  nutrients  that  play  a  part 
in  keeping  the  machinery  of  the  body  in  working  order.  The  beating  of  the  heart,  the  circu- 
lation of  the  blood,  the  ability  to  grow  and  reproduce,  the  ability  to  digest  and  absorb  food, 
may  all  be  classed  as  body  processes  regulated  by  certain  substances  furnished  by  food. 
All  nutrients  contained  in  food  undoubtedly  have  some  part  to  play  as  body-regulating  sub- 
stances. Protein,  phosphorus,  iron  and  lime  not  only  serve  as  conspicuous  materials  for  build- 
ing the  body,  but  play  a  second  part  in  regulating  its  activities.  Salts,  acids,  flavors,  are  all 
concerned  in  regulating  body  processes. 

THE  SO-CALLED  VITAMINES  IN  MILK  ESSENTIAL  TO  GROWTH 

In  the  past  two  years  some  results  of  deepest  importance  to  human  welfare  have  been 
accomplished  showing  that  besides  all  the  nutrient  substances  that  are  now  familiar,  such  as 
protein,  fat,  starch,  lime,  acids,  salts  and  flavors,  there  are  other  dietary  factors  essential  to 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— MILK:  A  CHEAP  FOOD  63 

health  and  growth.  Very  little  is  known  as  yet  about  these  factors  that  some  foods  seem  to 
contain  and  others  seem  to  lack,  except  that  when  the  foods  containing  them  are 
absent  from  the  dietary,  the  young  animal  ceases  to  grow  and  the  adult  animal 
suffers  in  health.  One  serious  disease  of  nutrition,  beriberi,  so  common  in  some  Eastern  rice- 
producing  countries,  has  been  traced  to  the  too  exclusive  use  of  polished  rice,  which  lacks 
these  dietary  factors.  Other  nutritive  diseases  somewhat  like  beriberi,  and  occurring  in  this 
country,  may  be  proved  to  be  similarly  caused. 

A  popular  name,  vitamines,  has  been  given  to  these  essential  dietary  factors,  and  is 
referred  to  now  because  many  persons  may  have  heard  it  used.  The  name  vitamine  is,  how- 
ever not  accepted  as  either  good  or  descriptive  by  many  of  the  persons  doing  the  most  work 
on  this  subject,  and  consequently  is  only  mentioned  in  passing. 

There  seem  to  be  two  of  these  factors  essential  to  right  nutrition.  One  of  them 
occurs  dissolved  in  the  fat  of  certain  foods;  the  other  one  can  be  obtained  from  certain 
foods  dissolved  in  water.  They  are  designated  for  convenience  "fat-soluble  A"  and  "water- 
soluble  B." 

THE  FAT-SOLUBLE  GROWTH-PROMOTING  FACTOR  IN  MILK 

The  fat-soluble  factor  that  promotes  growth  and  is  essential  to  it,  does  not  occur  in 
all  fats.  This  necessarily  points  to  decided  differences  in  the  value  of  certain  sources  of  fat. 
Milk-fat  as  it  occurs  in  milk  and  butter  and  probably  cheese,  the  fat  in  egg-yolk,  cod-liver  oil, 
and  to  a  considerably  lesser  extent  muscle  and  kidney  fat,  contain  the  needed  factor.  Forage 
foods,  such  as  alfalfa  and  cabbage  leaves,  seem  to  contain  it  in  abundance.  It  seems  to  be 
absent  or  deficient  in  lard  and  all  vegetable  oils. 

When  this  knowledge  is  summed  up  into  usable  form,  it  results  in  this  statement: 
That  since  the  human  being  has  a  limited  capacity  for  forage  foods,  such  as  alfalfa  and  cab- 
bage, since  he  must  have  this  essential  factor  in  his  diet  to  some  extent  in  adult  life  and  to  a 
much  larger  extent  in  childhood,  and  since  it  is  absent  or  deficient  in  the  grains  that  he  uses 
as  food,  he  must  depend  primarily  on  milk,  eggs  and  meat  for  his  supply.  Further,  since 
meat  contains  a  smaller  amount  of  this  factor  than  milk  or  eggs,  the  two  foods  last  men- 
tioned take  first  rank  as  its  sources.  For  the  reason  that  meat  contains  this  factor  in  lesser 
quantity  than  does  milk-fat,  oleomargarine,  although  having  the  same  energy  value  as  butter, 
is  less  valuable  than  butter  as  a  source  of  the  fat-soluble  A. 


THE  WATER-SOLUBLE  GROWTH-PROMOTING  FACTOR  IN  MILK 

The  second  factor  essential  to  growth,  the  water-soluble  factor,  is  also  absent  from 
certain  foods;  and  in  its  absence  not  only  is  growth  prevented,  but  as  in  the  case  of  the  too 
exclusive  diet  of  polished  rice  in  India,   serious  illness  results. 

This  water-soluble,  growth-promoting  factor,  like  the  fat-soluble  one,  is  present  in 
amounts  sufficient  for  growth  in  milk  and  eggs.  It  occurs  in  considerable  amounts  in  the 
embryo  of  the  cereal  grains,  but  is  absent  in  the  grain  from  which  the  germ  has  been 
removed. 

When  white  bread,  polished  rice,  or  degerminated  cereals  form  an  important  part  of 
the  diet,  as  they  frequently  do,  some  food  must  be  added  that  contains  the  water-soluble, 
growth-promoting  factor.     Bread  and  milk  make  an  excellent  combination  in  this  respect. 

SUMMARY 

With  all  the  evidence  in,  no  food  bears  the  investigation  of  nutritive  properties  better 
than  does  milk.      It  is  impossible  to  escape  the  conviction  that  not  only  is  it  a  cheap  food, 


64 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 


but  it  is  a  food  whose  value  can  hardly  be  estimated  in  terms  of  dollars  and  cents.      It  has 
been  pointed  out  that: 

1 .  Although  milk  is  not  the  cheapest  source  of  energy  that  can  be  bought,  it  is 
nevertheless  an  important  source  of  energy,  and  the  energy-yielding  substances,  the  protein, 
the  milk-sugar  and  the  milk-fat,   all  have  special  value. 

2.  Milk  is  a  cheap  source  of  protein  because  the  protein  that  it  contains  is  of  a 
kind  particularly  valuable  for  building  tissue. 

3.  Ordinarily  milk  is  the  cheapest  and  most  valuable  source  of  lime,  unless  it  is 
discovered  that  lime  in  water  can  take  the  place  of  lime  in  milk. 

4.  Milk  is  a  valuable   and   cheap   source  of  phosphorus. 

5.  Milk  is  deficient  in  iron,  but  the  iron  that  it  contains  is  particularly  well  utilized 
by  the  body. 

6.  Milk  is  the  most  important  of  the  three  foods,  milk,  eggs  and  meat,  which  are 
the  chief  sources  of  a  factor  in  foods  that  is  soluble  in  fat,  that  is  essential  to  growth  and 
health,  and  that  is  called  "fat-soluble  A." 

7.  Milk  is  one  of  the  most  important  sources  of  a  factor  in  foods  that  is  soluble 
in  water,  is  essential  to  growth  and  health,  and  is  called  "water-soluble  B." 


Amounts  of  Food  Equivalent  in  Fuel  Value  to  One  Glass  of  Milk,  157  Calories 

(Iowa    State    College    of    Agriculture) 


2    small  eggs 

2    glasses  of  buttermilk 

1    large  baked    potato 

1    very  large  baked  apple 

4  2/3  tablespoons  apple  sauce 

5  J/2  tablespoons   mashed   potatoes 
J/2   cupful  green  pea  pulp 

1  cupful   creamed   celery 

2  small  oranges 

J4    cupful   spinach   pulp 

4  stewed  prunes  with  juice 

3  J>4    cupfuls  carrot  pulp 
J/2    medium  lamb  chop 


3  2/5  tablespoons  baked   custard 

1  0  tablespoons  oatmeal 

2  4/5  tablespoons   rice 

3  tablespoons  average  cream 
6    large  dates 

1  8  peanuts 

5    large  walnuts 

4  J/2  graham  crackers   3   in.   square 
3  2/3  oatmeal  crakers   3    in.   square 

2  J/2  slices  white  bread  toast 

1  J/2  slices  ■white  bread    (home  made) 
I  J/2  slices  whole  wheat  bread 


TO  PASTEURIZE  MILK 


Set  the  bottles  of  milk  in  a  pail  with  a  perforated  false  bottom.  An  inverted 
perforated  pie  tin  will  do.  Insert  a  thermometer  in  one  of  the  bottles,  by  punch-, 
ing  a  hole  in  the  cap  or  through  the  cotton  plug.  Fill  the  pail  with  water  nearly  to 
the  level  of  the  milk.  Heat  the  water  sligthly  until  the  thermometer  registers 
1  50°  F.  Change  the  thermometer  from  the  milk  to  the  water,  add  cold  water  till 
the  temperature  of  the  water  is  also  1  50°  F.  Cover  the  kettle,  keeping  it  as  nearly 
this  temperature  as  possible  for  30  minutes;  then  cool,  by  running  water  into  the 
pail  .   Remove  the  bottles  and  put  them  immediately  on  ice. 

If  no  thermometer  is  at  hand,  the  following  method  may  be  followed:  Put 
a  gallon  (4  quarts)  of  water  on  the  stove  in  a  kettle  with  a  perforated  false  bottom. 
When  the  water  is  boiling  hard,  remove  the  kettle  from  the  stove  to  a  table  and 
allow  it  to  stand  uncovered  for  1  0  minutes ;  then  put  the  filled  and  loosely  corked 
bottles  into  the  water,  cover  the  kettle,  and  allow  it  to  stand  covered  for  half  an 
hour.  At  the  end  of  this  time  remove  the  bottles,  cool  rapidly  under  running 
water,  and  put  in  the  ice  box  until  needed.  Do  not  uncork  the  bottle  from  the  time 
it  is  first  closed  until  the  baby  is  to  be  fed. 


SUGAR:  A  VALUABLE  FOOD 

(From  Iowa  State  College  of    Agriculture   Bulletin  "Sugar") 

Sugar  in  its  various  forms  constitutes  one  of  the  important  food  materials 
of  the  world.  With  the  development  of  the  sugar  industry  and  the  consequent 
cheapening  of  the  product  the  consumption  of  sugar  has  increased  at  a  very  rapid 
rate. 

Manufacture 

The  great  bulk  of  the  sugar  used  for  household  purposes  is  prepared  by 
expressing  the  juice  from  crushed  sugar  canes  or  sliced  beets,  filtering  the  liquid, 
boiling  it  in  a  vacuum  and  clarifying  by  means  of  lime,  acid  calcium  phosphate  and 
bone-black. 

Molasses  is  a  product  obtained  in  the  process  of  refining  sugar. 

Brown  sugars  are  not  completely  refined. 

Granulated,  loaf  and  pulverized  sugars  are  the  various  forms  in  which 
refined  sugar  is  prepared. 

COMPARATIVE  VALUE  OF  CANE  AND  BEET  SUGARS 

There  is  no  difference  in  the  nutritive  value  or  purity  of  the  different  forms  of  sugar 
made  from  beets  and  sugar  cane  if  they  have  undergone  the  same  degree  of  refining.  Cane 
and  beet  sugar  are  identical  in  composition,  in  sweetening  power,  in  chemical  reactions  and 
in  dietetic  value. 

Failures  in  jelly  making  and  candy  making  sometimes  attributed  to  the  use  of  beet 
sugar  may  usually  be  traced  to  other  causes. 

SUGAR  AS  A  FOOD 

Sugars  are  among  the  most  valuable  of  the  carbohydrate  foods.  Unlike  the  other 
fuel  foods  (starches  and  fats)  they  yield  energy  very  readily.  Some  of  the  simple  sugars 
such  as  glucose  and  fructose  from  honey  and  the  fruits,  are  ready  for  body  use  as  soon  as 
dissolved.  These  pass  into  the  blood  stream  by  absorption  through  the  walls  of  the  intes- 
tine and  become  available  for  body  needs  at  once. 

The  more  complex  sugars,  sucrose,  lactose  and  maltose,  are  acted  upon  by  digestive 
ferments  which  change  them  to  glucose  and  fructose,  thereby  preparing  them  for  absorption. 
All  of  the  sugars,  and  the  starches  as  well,  must  be  in  the  form  of  glucose  or  other  kindred 
sugars  before  the  body  can  convert  them  into  energy.  It  will  be  seen,  therefore,  that  pure 
glucose  is  a  wholesome  and  easily  assimilated  food. 

Honey  consists  largely  of  fructose  and  has  a  mildly  laxative  effect,  hence,  is  a  good 
substitute  for  some  of  the  sucrose  in  the  diet. 

Lactose  (milk  sugar)  is  only  slightly  sweet  in  taste  and  does  not  ferment  so  readily 
as  other  sugars.  For  these  reasons  it  is  used  extensively  in  the  preparation  of  foods  for  in- 
fants and  invalids. 

65 


66         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 

MODERATION  IN  THE  USE  OF  SUGAR 

The  increasing  per  capita  consumption  of  sugar  in  the  United  States  should  serve  as 
a  warning  against  the  dangers  of  a  one-sided  diet. 

Because  sweet  foods  have  the  quality  of  satisfying  the  appetite  very  readily,  they 
should  not  be  taken  to  satisfy  hunger  but  should  rather  be  eaten  after  sufficient  body-build- 
ing and  body-regulating  foods  have  been  taken  to  meet  the  body's  need  for  such  foods.  The 
custom  of  serving  the  sweet  food  at  the  last  of  the  meal  is  in  harmony  with  this  dietetic  prin- 
ciple. 

It  is  important  that  children  should  form  sane  habits  of  eating  sweet  foods.  The 
practice  of  using  large  amounts  of  sugar  on  cereals,  cooked  fruits  and  in  beverages  should  be 
discouraged.  The  cereal  foods  are  more  wholesome  and  better  balanced  when  served  with 
milk,  cream  or  a  little  butter.      Candy  is  more  wisely  allowed  only  at  the  close  of  a  meal. 

Such  fruits  as  dates,  raisins  and  figs,  which  furnish  the  easily  digested  fruit  sugar, 
are  a  better  confection  for  children  than  the  candies  which  consist  chiefly  of  the  less  easily 
digested  sucrose.     These  fruits  furnish  mineral  matter  in  addition  to  sugar. 

Concentrated  sweet  foods  are  less  apt  to  cause  irritation  and  fermentation  in  the 
digestive  tract  if  taken  with  large  amounts  of  water. 

Menus  rich  in  sugar  should  n6t  include  large  amounts  of  fat  and  starch.  Menus  rich 
in  starch  and  fat  should  not  include  large  amounts  of  sugar. 


SUGAR  AND  ITS  VALUE  AS  FOOD 

(From  U.  S.  Farmers'  Bulletin  535) 

MILK  SUGAR 

Milk  contains  from  4  to  5  per  cent,  of  an  important  sugar — milk  sugar  or 
lactose.  When  separated  or  purified  it  is  a  crystalline  product  and  is  sold  in  that 
form.  It  is  said  to  be  the  most  readily  digestible  sugar  and  is  often  found  in  pre- 
pared foods,  especially  those  made  for  invalids  and  children.  It  is  much  less 
sweet  than  cane  sugar. 

HONEY 

Before  sugar  -was  a  common  commercial  product,  honey,  stored  by  the  honey  bee, 
was  very  generally  used  to  sweeten  foods.  Although  its  use  for  this  purpose  is  much  less 
common  since  cane  sugar  has  become  so  plentiful  and  cheap,  honey  is  still  highly  prized  as  a 
wholesome  sweet  food  and  is  used  either  alone  or  with  other  foods  in  a  great  many  ways. 
Its  flavor  is  due  to  volatile  bodies  in  the  flowers  from  which  it  is  obtained,  some  flowers 
imparting  a  more  agreeable  flavor  than  others  to  the  honey.  Its  behavior  in  cooking  and 
storing  is  different  from  that  of  the  ordinary  sugars  for  reasons  not  yet  thoroughly  under- 
stood. Honey  has  been  used  as  a  food  from  the  earliest  times,  and  is  generally  conceded 
to  be  wholesome  as  well  as  palatable.  Prior  to  the  passage  of  the  Federal  Pure  Food  Law, 
in  1906,  strained  honey  was  very  frequently  adulterated  with  commercial  glucose  and  other 
materials,  such  as  commercial  invert  sugar,  but  since  this  law  went  into  effect  there  is  little 
adulteration  of  this  product.  Mixtures  with  glucose  and  invert  sugar  are  sold,  but  the  law 
requires  that  they  be  so  labeled. 

SWEET  MATERIALS  OTHER  THAN  SUGAR 

Saccharin,  an  extremely  sweet  material,  is  not  a  sugar,  but  is  of  an  entirely  different 
chemical  structure,  being  a  benzene  compound.  Its  use  in  food  products  was  forbidden 
under  the  Federal  Pure  Food  Law.  It  is  quite  commonly  prescribed  in  cases  of  diabetes  to 
satisfy  the  craving  for  sweets,  as  it  is  believed  to  be  less  harmful  in  such  cases  than  the 
sugar,  the  flavor  of  which  it  replaces. 

There  are  other  chemical  substances  which  are  not  sugars,  but  which  have  a  marked 
sweet  flavor.     They,  like  saccharin,  are  in  no  sense  foodstuffs. 

GLUCOSE  AND  OTHER  PRODUCTS  MADE  FROM  STARCH 

"Commercial  glucose,"  "40  sugar,"  "80  sugar,"  and  "commercial  dextrose"  are 
commercial  products  of  the  hydrolysis  of  starch.  The  first  is  a  thick  liquid,  rarely  showing 
crystallization. 

Commercial  glucose  is  often  used  as  a  substitute  for  sugar  in  syrups,  candy  making, 
preserving,  etc.  Confectioners  maintain  that  certain  kinds  of  candy  cannot  be  made  of  as 
good  consistency  with  pure  cane  sugar  as  with  the  addition  of  some  glucose.  In  such  cases 
it  can  hardly  be  considered  an  adulterant.  When  it  is  used  as  a  cheaper  substitute  for  cane 
sugar,  and  the  goods  are  sold  as  cane-sugar  products,  its  use  is  evidently  fraudulent.  The 
present  law  in  the  United  States  requires  that  syrups,  jams,  jellies,  etc.,  made  with  glucose 
shall  be  so  labeled.  Its  nutritive  value  is  practically  the  same  as  that  of  other  carbohydrates, 
and  there  is  no  reason  to  suppose  that  when  properly  made  it  is  not  wholesome. 

67 


68  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 


PURITY  OF  SUGAR 

Of  500  samples  of  sugar  examined  several  years  ago  by  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry 
of  this  department,  not  one  was  found  to  be  adulterated.  The  low  price  of  cane  sugar,  in 
comparison  with  the  price  of  substances  that  might  be  used  for  adulteration,  protects  it  from 
such  attempts. 

A  more  recent  publication  of  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry  states  that  sugars  as  a  class, 
both  the  high  and  low  grades  as  now  found  on  the  market,  are  practically  free  from  adulter- 
ation.     This  is  particularly  true  since  the  Federal  Pure  Food  Law  of  1906  went  into  effect. 

There  is  a  popular  belief  that  granulated  sugar  is  often  adulterated  with  white  sand 
or  finely  ground  rock,  and  that  pulverized  sugar  is  commonly  adulterated  with  starch  or  lime 
dust.  Cases  of  such  adulteration,  however,  have  rarely  been  found  by  the  Bureau  of  Chem- 
istry, though  starch  has  been  detected  in  a  very  few  samples  of  powdered  sugar.  It  is  a  very 
simple  matter  to  test  suspicious  sugar  for  the  presence  of  such  materials.  Sugar  is  readily 
soluble  in  water,  and  the  sand  and  mineral  adulterants  are  insoluble. 

FOOD  VALUE  OF  SUGAR 

The  most  interesting  use  of  sugar  is  as  a  food  for  the  animal  body.  Within  certain 
limits,  sugar  may  be  considered  as  the  equivalent  of  starch  that  has  been  digested  and  made 
ready  for  absorption.  A  mealy  boiled  potato  like  all  forms  of  starchy  food,  must  be  largely 
converted  into  some  kind  of  sugar  by  the  digestive  juices  before  it  can  be  absorbed  as  food. 

DIGESTION  OF  SUGAR 

When  sugar  is  eaten  it  is  changed  in  the  digestive  tract  before  it  is  taken  up  in  the 
blood  and  carried  where  it  is  needed.  If  a  solution  of  cane  sugar  be  injected  directly  into 
the  blood,  it  is  passed  out  by  the  kidneys  unchanged,  showing  that  it  is  not  fitted  for  assimi- 
lation until  it  has  been  changed,  as  it  is  in  normal  digestion. 

SUGAR  AS  A  FOOD  FOR  MUSCULAR  WORK 

Food  must  supply  enough  protein  or  nitrogenous  material  for  the  formation  and 
repair  of  tissues  and  for  certain  other  uses  in  the  body. 

According  to  our  present  knowledge  the  value  of  sugar  as  a  food  for  muscular  work 
may  be  briefly  summarized  as  follows: 

When  the  organism  is  adapted  to  the  digestion  of  starch,  and  there  is  sufficient  time 
for  its  utilization,  sugar  has  no  advantage  over  starch  as  a  food  for  muscular  work. 

In  small  quantities  and  in  not  too  concentrated  form  sugar  will  take  the  place,  prac- 
tically weight  for  weight,  of  starch  as  a  food  for  muscular  work,  barring  the  difference  in 
energy  and  in  time  required  to  digest  them,  sugar  having  the  advantage  in  these  respects. 

It  furnishes  the  needed  carbohydrate  material  to  organisms  that  have  little  or  no 
power  to  digest  starch.  Thus,  milk  sugar  is  part  of  the  natural  food  of  the  infant  whose 
digestive  organs  are,  as  yet,  unable  to  convert  starch  into  an  assimilable  form. 

In  times  of  great  exertion  or  exhausting  labor,  the  rapidity  with  which  it  is  assimi- 
lated gives  sugar  certain  advantages  over  starch  and  makes  it  prevent  fatigue. 

This  latter  quality,  which  renders  it  more  rapidly  available  for  muscular  power,  may 
account  for  the  fact  that  sugar  is  so  relished  by  people  who  are  doing  muscular  work,  and  by 
those  of  very  active  habits,  such  as  children. 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— SUGAR  AND  ITS  VALUE  AS  FOOD  69 

The  American  farmer  ranks  high  among  agriculturists  as  a  rapid  and  enduring  worker, 
and  his  consumption  of  sweets  is  known  to  be  very  large.  The  same  is  true  of  lumbermen 
and  others  who  work  hard  in  the  open  air;  sugar  and  sweet  cakes  are  favorite  foods  with 
them.  Dietary  studies  carried  on  in  the  winter  lumber  camps  of  Maine  showed  that  large 
quantities  of  cookies,  cakes,  molasses,  and  sugar  were  eaten,  sugar  of  all  sorts  supplying  on 
an  average  1  0  per  cent  of  the  total  energy  of  the  diet. 

The  value  of  sugar  in  cold  climates,  where  foods  containing  starch  are  not  available, 
is  evident,  and  in  the  outfit  of  polar  expeditions  sugar  is  now  given  an  important  place. 

SUGAR  AS  A  FAT  FORMER 

Sugar,  like  starch,  is  fattening;  that  is,  when  taken  in  excess  it  may  be  transformed 
into  fat  and  stored  as  reserve  material.  On  this  account  physicians  commonly  advise  that 
sugar  be  sparingly  used  by  the  corpulent.  This  advice  is  given  because  sugar  in  the  form  of 
candy  or  other  sweets  is  often  taken  as  an  accessory  to  an  already  abundant  diet. 

SUGAR  AS  A  FLAVOR 

In  addition  to  its  value  as  a  food,  sugar  is  important  in  the  diet  as  a  flavor,  one 
which  the  cook  could  not  easily  spare,  as  it  now  enters  into  a  great  variety  of  dishes.  In- 
deed its  agreeable  flavor  has  always  constituted  one  of  the  chief  reasons  for  its  use,  and  will 
continue  to  do  so,  even  though  we  make  use  of  the  abundance  of  relatively  cheap  starchy 
materials  which  we  possess  which  theoretically  may  readily  take  the  place  of  sugar  as  a  food. 

In  some  dietary  studies  made  under  the  auspices  of  this  department  with  a  club  of 
students  at  the  University  of  Maine,  an  investigation  was  made  of  the  effect  of  supplying  a 
liberal  amount  of  maple  syrup  in  a  diet  which  contained  an  abundance  of  nutrients.  The 
syrup  was  evidently  relished,  and  considerable  amounts  were  eaten.  However,  there  was 
not  a  corresponding  decrease  in  other  foods;  on  the  contrary,  the  amount  of  flour  was  in 
excess  of  the  amount  ordinarily  consumed.  It  would  seem  that  the  maple  syrup,  and  flour 
in  the  form  of  griddle  cakes,  were  consumed  simply  on  account  of  their  agreeable  flavor. 
Provided  the  deit  contained  sufficient  nutrients  in  the  first  place,  this  increase  was  not  desir- 
able on  the  ground  of  economy,  and  it  may  be  questioned  whether  it  was  desirable  from  the 
standpoint  of  health.  When  a  similar  comparison  was  made  of  the  addition  to  the  diet  of 
liberal  quantities  of  milk,  which  has  a  much  less  distinctive  flavor,  there  was  a  corresponding 
decrease  in  the  amount  of  other  foods  consumed.  This  would  indicate  that  much  of  the  sugar 
used  is  consumed  for  its  agreeable  flavor  and  not  because  it  is  recognized  as  a  food  which  is 
required  to  satisfy  body  needs. 

GENERAL  CONCLUSIONS 

One  may  say  in  general  that  the  wholesomeness  of  sweetened  foods  and  their  utiliza- 
tion by  the  system  is  largely  a  question  of  quantity  and  concentration.  For  instance,  a  simple 
pudding  flavored  with  sugar  rather  than  heavily  sweetened  is  considered  easy  of  digestion, 
but  when  more  sugar  is  used,  with  the  addition  of  eggs  and  fat,  we  have  as  the  result  highly 
concentrated  forms  of  food,  which  can  be  eaten  with  advantage  only  in  moderate  quantities 
and  which  are  entirely  unsuited  to  children  and  invalids. 

It  is  true  that  the  harvester,  lumberman,  and  others  who  do  hard  work  in  the  open 
air  consume  great  amounts  of  food  containing  considerable  quantities  of  sugar,  such  as  pie 
and  doughnuts,  and  apparently  with  impunity;  but  it  is  equally  true  that  people  living  an 
indoor  life  find  that  undue  amounts  of  pie,  cake,  and  pudding,  with  highly  sweetened  pre- 
served fruit,  and  sugar  in  large  amounts  on  cooked  cereals,  almost  always  bring  indigestion 
sooner  or  later. 


70  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 

From  a  gastronomic  point  of  view  it  would  seem  also  that  in  the  American  cuisine 
sugar  is  used  with  too  many  kinds  of  food,  with  a  consequent  loss  of  variety  and  piquancy 
of  flavor  in  the  different  dishes.  The  nutty  flavor  of  grains  and  the  natural  taste  of  mild 
fruits  are  very  often  concealed  by  the  addition  of  large  quantities  of  sugar. 

In  the  diet  of  the  undernourished  larger  amounts  of  sugar  would  doubtless  help  to 
supply  adequate  nutrition.  This  point  is  often  urged  by  European  hygienists.  In  the  food 
of  the  well-to-do  it  is  often  the  case,  however,  that  starch  is  not  diminished  in  proportion  as 
sugar  is  added.  That  sugar,  on  account  of  its  agreeable  flavor,  furnishes  a  temptation  to 
take  more  carbohydrate  food  than  the  system  needs  cannot  be  denied.  The  vigor  of  diges- 
tion and  muscular  activity  in  each  particular  case  would  seem  to  suggest  the  limit.  A  lump 
of  sugar  represents  about  as  much  nutriment  as  an  ounce  of  potato,  but,  while  the  potato  will 
be  eaten  only  because  hunger  prompts,  the  sugar,  because  of  its  taste,  may  be  taken  when 
the  appetite  has  been  fully  satisfied. 

Sugar  is  a  useful  and  valuable  food.  It  must,  however,  be  remembered  that  it  is  a 
concentrated  food,  and  therefore  should  be  eaten  in  moderate  quantities.  Further,  like  other 
concentrated  foods,  sugar  seems  best  fitted  for  assimilation  by  the  body  when  supplied  with 
other  materials  which  dilute  it  or  give  it  the  necessary  bulk. 

Persons  of  active  habits  and  good  digestion  will  add  sugar  to  their  food  almost  at 
pleasure  without  inconvenience,  while  those  of  sedentary  life,  of  delicate  digestion,  or  with  a 
tendency  to  corpulency  would  do  better  to  use  sugar  very  moderately.  It  is  generally 
assumed  that  4  or  5  ounces  of  sugar  per  day  is  as  much  as  it  is  well  for  the  average  adult 
to  eat  under  ordinary  conditions. 


FATS  AND  THEIR  ECONOMICAL  USE  IN  THE  HOME 

(From  U.  S.  Farmers'  Bulletin  469) 

The  fats  in  the  ordinary  diet  fall  naturally  into  two  groups,  those  eaten  be- 
cause they  happen  to  be  components  of  foods,  like  the  fat  in  milk,  meats,  or  fish, 
and  those  like  butter,  salad  oils,  or  lard,  which  are  added  to  other  foods  in  cooking 
or  serving.  The  housekeeper  interested  in  the  economical  use  of  fats  in  the  home 
must  take  into  consideration  fat  as  contributed  by  both  groups.  Obviously,  the 
kind  and  quantity  of  the  first  group  of  fats  eaten  are  determined  by  the  foods 
making  up  the  diet  and  this  is  governed  largely  by  individual  tastes  and  local  or 
family  food  habits.  As  regards  this  group,  economy  involves  chiefly  the  proper 
selection  and  combination  of  foods  containing  fat  in  abundance  with  other  foods 
containing  little  of  it,  so  as  to  secure  a  diet  supplying  the  proper  proportions  of 
protein  and  carbohydrate  as  well  as  fat. 

The  flavors  and  odors  of  fats  are  probably  due  to  the  presence  in  them  of  small 
amounts  of  difficultly  removable  substances  rather  than  to  specific  properties  of  the  pure  fats 
themselves,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  flavors  and  odors  become  much  less  noticeable  the  more 
completely  the  fats  are  purified.  The  characteristic  flavor  of  butter,  for  example,  is  due  to 
the  absorption  by  the  fat  of  the  substances  formed  in  the  fermentation  of  milk  and  cream  by 
lactic  acid  and  bacteria  and  to  the  presence  of  small  particles  of  the  curd.  Similarly,  the  by- 
products, such  as  butyric  acid,  which  are  formed  by  the  action  of  undesirable  bacteria,  may 
be  absorbed  by  the  fat  and  give  rise  to  the  undesirable  flavor  of  butter  of  poor  quality  or 
that  which  has  deteriorated.  Musty  flavors  are  doubtless  due  to  the  presence  of  the  products 
of  metabolism  of  molds  which  may  be  present  in  the  fats.  In  the  case  of  some  fats,  like 
those  of  beef  and  mutton,  or  the  fish  oils,  it  has  apparently  been  impossible  to  remove  entirely 
the  flavor-giving  substances  by  the  ordinary  methods  of  refining. 


THE  PLACE  OF  FATS  IN  THE  DIET 

The  chief  value  of  fats  in  nutrition  is  that  they  furnish  energy  which  the  body  requires 
to  perform  its  work.  The  ideal  diet  should  contain  sufficient  quantities  of  fat  and  carbo- 
hydrates to  insure  it  the  required  amount  of  energy,  as  well  as  a  sufficient  quantity  of  protein 
to  supply  the  necessary  nitrogen  for  growth  and  repair  of  the  body,  also  mineral  matter  for 
growth  and  other  body  needs,  and  vitamins  or  similar  bodies  required  to  render  the  diet 
adequate  for  maintenance.  Since  fats  furnish  2  '/4  times  as  much  energy,  pound  for  pound, 
as  do  proteins  and  carbohydrates,  and  since  they  are  both  wholesome  and  palatable,  they 
are  very  commonly  used  to  increase  the  energy  value  of  the  diet.  Furthermore,  they  are 
especially  useful  as  a  source  of  energy  where  an  excess  of  carbohydrates  in  the  diet  is  to  be 
avoided,  as  in  cases  of  diabetes  or  certain  forms  of  indigestion. 

While  fats  and  carbohydrates  may  replace  each  other  to  a  considerable  extent, 
recent  investigations  indicate  that  some  carbohydrate  supplied  by  the  food  or  formed  in  the 
body  from  protein  is  essential  for  the  combustion  of  fats  in  the  body.  Experts  in  nutrition 
and  dietetics,  therefore,  believe  that  neither  one  should  be  used  to  the  exclusion  of  the  other. 

The  digestive  disturbances  often  attributed  to  eating  fat  are  probably  due  not  so 
much  to  the  inability  of  the  body  to  digest  the  fat  itself  as  to  other  factors,  chief  among 
which  are  bad  cooking,   overeating  of  foods  containing  fats,  and  rancidity. 

71 


72  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOODS 

Disagreeable  sensations  are  experienced  by  some  people  after  eating  large  quantities 
of  foods  such  as  meats  containing  much  fat  interspersed  with  the  muscular  tissue,  and  over- 
rich  puddings  or  salads.  This  may  be  explained  by  the  fact  that  the  digestive  juices  of 
stomach  have  little  solvent  action  on  such  nonemulsified  fats  and  are  thus  hindered  from 
digesting  the  protein  which  is  covered  by  or  very  intimately  mixed  with  the  fat.  The  pass- 
ing of  the  food  through  the  pylorus  into  the  small  intestine  is  thus  delayed  until  the  fat  has 
become  separated  from  the  lean  portions  by  the  enzymic  and  mechanical  action  of  the 
stomach.  For  this  reason  very  fat  meats,  for  instance,  remain  a  longer  time  in  the  stomach 
than  lean  meats,  although  in  the  end  they  are  as  thoroughly  digested.  Similar  digestive  dis- 
turbances are  sometimes  experienced  after  eating  fried  foods  (cooked  without  scorching)  or 
foods  in  which  fat  is  incorporated  in  such  a  manner  that  it  prevents  the  digestive  juices  from 
acting  upon  the  protein  and  carbohydrates.  This  delayed  digestion  is  often  mistaken  for 
diminished  or  incomplete  digestion. 

It  must  be  remembered  that  there  are  some  persons  whose  systems  can  tolerate  little 
if  any  food  rich  in  fats.  This,  like  the  inability  of  some  to  eat  strawberries,  onions,  or  other 
foods,  without  digestive  disturbances,  is  a  matter  of  individual  peculiarity. 


OLEOMARGARINE 

A  discussion  of  animal  fats  would  not  be  complete  without  some  mention  of  oleo- 
margarine, called  "margarin"  in  Europe.  The  principal  fats  used  in  its  manufacture  in  the 
United  States  are  oleo  oil,  neutral  lard  (that  is,  a  specially  rendered  lard),  and  cottonseed 
and  other  oils.  All  these  ingredients  must  be  pure  and  prepared  with  care  in  order  that 
none  of  them  shall  have  any  marked  taste  or  odor.  These  are  mixed  in  such  proportions  as 
will  give  the  final  product  a  melting  point  very  near  that  of  butter.  After  being  thoroughly 
mixed  the  fats  are  churned  with  a  small  quantity  of  milk  and  sometimes  cream,  the  propor- 
tions of  these  used  depending  upon  the  quality  of  the  product  desired.  In  the  preparation  of 
high-grade  oleomargarine  varying  quantities  of  butter  are  also  added.  The  resulting  prod- 
uct is  then  washed,  salted,  and  worked  as  in  ordinary  butter-making  processes.  Owing  to 
the  ease  with  which  a  highly  colored  oleomargarine  might  be  sold  as  butter,  it  is  illegal  to 
sell  oleomargarine  unless  it  is  plainly  labeled  as  such,  and  the  practice  of  coloring  it  to 
imitate  butter  is  discouraged  by  a  heavy  tax.  Oleomargarine  is  not  used  as  extensively  in 
this  country  as  in  Europe,  where  it  serves  both  for  table  and  culinary  purposes.  If  prepared 
from  pure  materials  and  under  sanitary  conditions,  it  is  a  wholesome  fat,  which,  according 
to  European  investigators,  is  well  assimilated.  It  has  an  energy  value  of  about  3,500  calories 
per  pound. 


OLIVE  OIL 

The  best  grade,  known  as  virgin  oil,  is  obtained  from  perfect  olives  of  the  proper 
degree  of  ripeness.  Lower  grades  may  be  obtained  either  by  crushing  and  pressing  an  in- 
ferior quality  of  olives  or  by  a  second  pressing  of  the  residue  from  the  first  pressing  of  the 
better  grades  of  fruit.  The  only  refining  or  purification  of  the  better  grades  of  oil  necessary 
is  filtration  to  remove  foreign  matter.  In  the  United  States  olive  oil  is  used  almost  exclus- 
ively for  table  purposes,  being  a  very  common  salad  oil.  In  localities  where  it  is  produced, 
especially  in  Southern  Europe,  it  is  used  for  cooking  as  well  as  for  table  purposes,  owing 
to  the  larger  and  more  readily  available  supply  (especially  of  the  cheaper  grades)  and  to 
the  relatively  limited  supply  of  animal  fat  in  such  regions. 


i    TALKS  ON  FOODS— FAT  AND  THEIR  ECONOMICAL  USE  73 

COTTONSEED  OIL 

Cottonseed  oil  in  its  crude  form  is  obtained  as  a  ruby  or  dark-red  oil  by  subjecting 
the  seeds  of  the  cotton  plant  to  great  pressure.  The  refined  oil  was  first  utilized  in  the  pre- 
paration of  various  lard  substitutes  by  mixing  with  it  hard  animal  fats  to  produce  a  substance 
having  a  consistency  similar  to  lard.  Other  methods  have  been  developed,  and  a  wide 
variety  of  cooking  fats  prepared  from  cottonseed  oil  are  now  on  the  market.  More  recently 
salad  oils  have  been  prepared  which  are  wholesome  and  palatable  and  are  being  used  in 
increasing  quantities  for  table  purposes. 

NUT  BUTTERS 

Closely  related  to  the  nut  oils  are  the  nut  butters  prepared  by  grinding  finely  the 
meats  of  peanuts,  almonds,  or  other  nuts  rich  in  fat,  so  as  to  produce  an  oily  mass  much  like 
butter  in  consistency.  Peanut  butter  is  by  far  the  most  common  of  the  nut  butters.  It  is 
used  chiefly  as  a  filling  for  sandwiches,  crackers,  etc.,  though  it  finds  some  use  in  cooking. 
The  nut  butters  can  be  made  at  home  by  grinding  the  whole  nuts;  a  special  nut-butter  knife 
being  furnished  with  some  of  the  meat  or  food  choppers.  In  addition  to  containing  a  large 
amount  of  fat,  nut  butters  also  contain  considerable  protein. 

THE  SELECTION  OF  EDIBLE  FATS 

In  the  selection  of  edible  fats  the  principle  considerations  should  be  the  purpose 
for  which  the  fat  is  to  be  used,  quality,  price,  and  individual  preference,  since  the  energy 
which  the  body  derives  from  different  fats  is  about  the  same,  and  all  are  regarded  as 
wholesome  when  of  good  quality.  Custom,  which  influences  to  a  considerable  extent  the 
choice  of  all  foods,  can,  therefore,  be  subordinated  to  the  more  essential  consideration  of 
economy. 

When  purchasing  fats  for  table  use  it  should  be  remembered  that  they  influence 
the  wholesomeness  of  the  foods  with  which  they  are  served  as  well  as  the  energy  value 
and  cost.  The  price  of  table  fats  depends  largely  upon  their  flavor  and  to  a  less  extent  on 
color,  and  in  selecting  them  each  housekeeper  must  decide  how  much  she  can  afford  to  pay 
for  these  properties,  since  all  the  edible  fats  have  practically  the  same  energy  value. 
In  general  it  pays  always  to  buy  fats  of  such  good  quality  that  none  will  have  to  be  thrown 
away  through  spoilage.  In  some  instances  a  higher-priced  article  may  be  more  economical 
in  the  end  as,  for  example,  clean,  sanitary  butter,  as  compared  to  a  cheaper  but  less  sanitary 
product.  In  some  instances,  where  taste  or  flavor  only  is  involved,  a  less  expensive  table 
fat  may  answer  quite  satisfactorily  the  purpose  of  a  more  expensive  one.  For  example,  the 
chief  use  of  table  oils  is  as  an  ingredient  of  salad  dressings,  and  when  a  characteristic 
flavor  is  not  especially  desired,  good  grades  of  cottonseed  and  peanut  oils,  having  a  bland 
flavor,  may  be  used,  when  these  are  less  expensive  than  the  corresponding  grades  of  olive 
oil. 

Fats  used  for  shortening  influence  the  appearance,  flavor,  texture,  composition, 
keeping  quality,  and  cost  of  the  foods  in  which  they  are  incorporated.  In  selecting  short- 
ening fats  flavor  and  odor  are  to  be  considered,  but  attractive  appearance  and  color  are  of 
less  importance,  since  in  cooking  these  are  usually  masked.  Other  qualities  being  equal, 
those  culinary  fats  are  more  economical  and  desirable  which  possess  the  best  keeping  qual- 
ity; that  is,  the  least  tendency  to  become  rancid.  Also,  for  general  use  shortening  fats  give 
the  best  results  if  they  are  neither  too  hard  nor  too  soft  to  be  easily  mixed  with  the  other  in- 
gredients of  the  dough  at  ordinary  temperatures. 

Fats  used  as  a  medium  for  cooking  should  be  carefully  selected,  since  they  in- 
fluence the  flavor,  appearance,  and  texture  of  the  foods  cooked  in  them,  as  is  evident  when 
one  recalls  the  bad  flavor  imparted  to  fried  foods   by   burned    or   rancid    fat.      Preference 


74         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV.— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOQDS 

should  be  given  to  a  fat  which  does  not  scorch  too  readily  at  the  temperature  most  commonly 
used  for  frying.  Experiments  in  the  laboratory  of  the  Office  of  Home  Economics  indicate 
that  butter  and  lard  scorch  at  a  lower  temperature  than  beef  or  mutton  fats  and  cottonseed, 
peanut  or  cocoanut  oils.  For  this  reason,  therefore,  the  latter  fats  are  preferable  for  deep 
frying,  which  requires  high  temperature. 

Prejudice  often  exerts  an  influence  on  the  selection  of  fats  as  well  as  other  food 
materials,  and  these  prejudices  are  often  curious.  For  example,  some  persons  who  think 
that  lard  is  not  only  indigestible,  but  also  unwholesome,  nevertheless  enjoy  bacon,  which, 
of  course,  supplies  pork  fat  in  a  different  form.  Such  prejudices  have  little  or  no  basis  of 
fact  and  should  not  exert  too  much  influence  on  the  selection  of  any  food  material. 

SUMMARY 

Economy  of  fats  in  the  home  may  be  secured  by  intelligent  selection,  economical 
use,  and  by  the  prevention  of  unnecessary  waste.  For  intelligent  selection,  which  means 
choosing  the  fat  best  suited  for  the  purpose  in  question,  a  knowledge  of  the  properties  and 
prices  of  the  different  fats  on  the  market  is  necessary.  It  should  be  remembered  that  the 
energy  value  of  all  the  pure  fats  is  practically  the  same,  and  the  housekeeper  must  deter- 
mine how  much  she  can  afford  to  pay  for  particular  flavors  or  appearance,  on  which  the 
difference  in  price  largely  depends.  To  secure  economy  fats  should  be  used  primarily  for 
the  purposes  to  which  they  are  best  adapted,  and  the  extravagant  use  of  both  table  and 
cooking  fats  should  be  avoided.  To  prevent  unnecessary  waste  fats  should  be  carefully 
handled  and  stored  so  that  none  need  be  discarded  ~  through  spoilage.  Furthermore,  all 
scraps  of  fat  which  accumulate  in  the  home  should  be  saved  and  used  for  culinary  pur- 
poses wherever  possible,  thus  lessening  the  amount  of  money  expended  for  cooking  fats. 
It  should  always  be  borne  in  mind  that  while  an  economical  use  of  fat  is  to  be  desired, 
stinting  is  to  be  avoided.  In  determining  how  far  economy  in  the  use  of  fats  is  to  be  prac- 
ticed one  should  bear  in  mind  that  true  economy  is  possible  only  where  the  value  of  the 
time  and  energy  involved  in  the 'saving  or  utilizing  of  an  article  is  less  than  the  value  of 
the  articles  saved. 


COMMON   SENSE   IN   MODERN   COOKING 

It  is  no  longer  considered  sufficient  that  a  girl  should  learn  cooking  only 
after  the  manner  her  mother  attained  it  from  her  grandmother.  Much  that  her 
grandmother  knew  was  of  high  practical  value,  and  while  she  did  not  know  the 
scientific  "why,"  yet  in  many  cases  we  have  never  been  able  to  improve  on  her 
"how."  Her  knowledge  should  properly  pass  on  in  the  manner  it  does  to  the  next 
generation.  At  the  same  time,  the  modern  girl  wants  to  know  something  of  the 
simple  chemistry  of  foods  and  the  chemical  changes  that  take  place  in  cooking  them. 

The  health  of  the  family  may  be  undermined  not  only  in  the  food  factories 
that  devitalize  foods  through  various  "refining"  practices  and  in  adulterations,  but 
through  faulty  treatment  in  the  kitchen  of  the  best  and  freshest  foods. 

One  of  the  most  serious  and  common  mistakes  to  be  avoided  is  the  custom  of 
"draining  off"  the  water  in  which  foods  are  cooked.  Probably  few  do  not  commit  this 
error.  There  are  numerous  ways  to  avoid  it — use  less  water,  or  boil  until  the  surplus  passes 
off  in  the  form  of  steam,  leaving  the  natural  salts  behind,  otherwise  the  most  valuable  nutri- 
tive elements  are  thrown  away. 

We  know  now  that  the  mineral  salts,  although  constituting  a  small  percentage  in  the 
total  bulk  of  foods  in  proportion  to  the  protein,  fats  and  carbohydrates,  are  nevertheless  of 
most  vital  importance.  These  are  the  original  salts  of  iron,  phosphorus,  lime,  potassium  and 
other  minerals.  They  are  indispensable  in  maintaining  a  healthy  condition  of  the  blood, 
and  in  the  manufacture  of  the  brain,  the  nerves,  the  bones,  the  glands  and  their  secretions. 

It  is  because  of  the  very  fact  that  the  normal  proportion  of  the  mineral  salts  in  any 
foods  is  small  that  they  should  not  be  drained  or  wasted  away  in  cooking.  No  artificial 
"seasoning"  with  salt  and  pepper,  butter  and  other  additions,  can  restore  the  lost  value  of 
the  natural  salts — and  the  need  of  these  seasonings  to  restore  "taste"  miraculously  disap- 
pears to  a  large  extent  when  the  natural  salts  are  retained  with  the  flavor  and  "life"  which 
they  in  themselves  yield  the  palate. 

There  is  reason  for  the  popularity  of  baked  potatoes.  The  mineral  salts  are  in  and 
next  to  the  skin.  In  eating  them  the  skin  should  be  scraped  very  close — or  itself  eaten. 
Potatoes  should  never  be  peeled  by  paring  off  the  skin;  they  are  thus  robbed  of  their 
highest  value.  If  boiled  and  only  the  thinnest  film  of  skin  removed,  this  value  is  saved — 
providing  they  are  boiled  down  until  little  or  no  water  remains  to  be  drained  off,  or  pro- 
vided they  are  mashed  into  the  residue  of  juice  or  water  and  served  in  that  manner. 

Steam  cooking  is  simple;  almost  anything  can  be  steamed.  An  ordinary  colander 
covered  with  a  saucepan  may  be  used.  The  double  boiler  enables  one  to  cook  vegetables 
in  their  own  juices  with  the  addition  of  little  or  no  water  and  no  draining  off. 

Baking  is  perhaps  the  most  ideal  form  of  treatment  for  many  foods  besides  meats. 
It  retains  all  of  the  natural  juices  and  minerals  and  serves  them  in  their  most  assimilable 
chemical  condition. 


75 


THE    ALL-CONVENIENT    CASSEROLE 

AND 

THE  USE  OF  THE  OVEN 

Under  the  head  of  Casserole  come  Marmites,  Cocottes,  Ramekins,  au  Gratin 
Dishes,  and  Souffle  Cases. 

Almost  everything  can  be  cooked  en  casserole — meat,  fish,  vegetables,  poul- 
try, fruit,  cereals — anything  requiring  slow,  gentle  cooking.  The  flavor  of  re- 
cooked  meats  is  far  superior  thus  than  if  prepared  in  a  saucepan,  and  the  slow 
cooking  does  not  harden  or  contribute  to  an  "overdone"  taste. 

Left-overs,  small  entrees,  salads,  serve  most  attractively  en  casserole  or  en 
ramekin. 

The  oven,  for  casserole  cooking,  should  be  kept  about  1  1  2  degrees  Fahren- 
heit, or  less ;  the  food  should  simmer,  not  boil. 


ADVANTAGES  OF  CASSEROLE  COOKING 

1 .  The  casseroles  are  clean,  to  start  with. 

2.  They  are  easy  to  keep  clean, 

3.  Their  glaze  is  hard  and  acid-resisting. 

4.  They  are  free  from  all  injurious  substances. 

5.  They  do  not  change  flavor  or  affect  color  of  food. 

6.  They  do  not  become  flavored  by  food  cooked  in  them. 

7.  They  cook  gently,  steadily  and  economically,  both  as  regards  shrinkage  of  food 
and  consumption  of  fuel. 

8.  They  preserve  all  the  goodness  and  the  juice. 

9.  They  improve  the  appearance  of  food  and  intensify  natural  flavors. 

1  0.      The  casserole  may  be  used  either  on  top  of  the  stove  or  in  the  oven. 

1  1 .  The  ingredients  may  be  put  into  the  casserole  and  allowed  to  stand  in  it  for 
hours  before  cooking,  without  spoiling. 

12.  Food  may  be  served  in  the  casserole,  thereby  insuring  its  reaching  the  table 
"piping  hot." 

GLASSWARE  BAKING  DISHES 

The  new  glass  dishes  which  have  come  into  favor  for  baking  are  deservedly  popular. 

They  will  resist  any  degree  of  oven  temperature,  are  absolutely  sanitary  and  easily 
cleaned,  are  not  so  cumbersome  as  earthenware  and  pottery  casseroles,  and  are  the  last  word 
in  daintiness  and  attractiveness  for  table  service.  The  process  of  special  manufacture  is  such 
that  the  glass  is  almost  unbreakable. 

With  these  glass  dishes  one  can  also  see  if  the  cake,  for  illustration,  is  done  all  the 
way  through,  instead  of  depending  altogether  on  a  testing  straw.  And  dough  does  not  stick 
to  the  side  as  with  metal  cake  dishes. 

Glass  is  an  unusually  excellent  retainer  of  heat,  hence  these  glass  dishes  are  eco- 
nomical,  in  that  the  heat  may  be  "turned   off  before  the  food  is  "done"   and  it  will  finish 

76 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— CASSEROLE  AND  OVEN 


77 


"cooking"  itself.  Somewhat  as  in  the  case  of  "a  fireless  cooker,"  the  retention  of  the  heat 
makes  all  the  difference  in  the  world,  too,  when  the  food  reaches  the  table  piping  hot  instead 
of  lukewarm. 

The  prices  of  these  dishes  are  about  on  a  par  with  aluminum;  a  little  more,  as  yet, 
than  the  crockery  dishes.  But  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  they  are  themselves  decorative 
and  do  not  need  some  form  of  decorative  holders  for  serving. 

THE  USE  OF  THE  OVEN 

Most  American  housewives  appreciate  too  poorly  the  old-fashioned  art  of  cooking 
in  the  oven.     They  turn  too  readily  to  frying  and  broiling. 

"En  Casserole"  is  incomparable  for  making  chicken  and  other  tender  meats  "go  far," 
and  is  delicious  for  fish  and  game,  and  for  vegetables  and  many  other  foods.  And  the  oven 
must  not  be  disregarded. 

For  oven  cooking,  earthenware  can  be  had  in  very  many  convenient  forms.  These 
vessels  are  apt  to  crack  when  new,  but  this  can  be  avoided  if  they  are  toughened  when  bought 
by  plunging  into  cold  water,  which  is  brought  to  a  boil  and  kept  boiling  for  five  minutes.  The 
well-known  Boston  bean  pot  is  useful  for  many  purposes,  and  the  blue  and  white  stew  pot. 
The  new  cooking  glass  is  attractive,  durable,  easily  cleaned  and  cooks  very  rapidly. 

As  food  should  so  far  as  possible  be  served  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked — which 
also  saves  dish -washing — the  little  ramekin  is  a  wonder;  with  ingenuity  all  sorts  of  dishes  of 
which  in  the  ordinary  form  one  may  grow  tired  may  be  shaped  up  attractively  for  individual 
service  in  the  ramekin,  garnished  and  seasoned  as  a  "novelty." 

Do  not  rebel  over  the  "long  time"  that  is  frequently  necessary  for  oven  cooking. 
The  result  justifies  the  care;  besides,  in  most  cases,  little  or  no  attention  is  required — one 
may  pursue  other  duties  in  the  interim,  and  casserole  cooking  may  often  be  prepared  the  day 
before. 

With  very  little  thought  you  can  have  many  "oven  meals" — nearly  all  of  the  foods 
being  cooked  in  the  oven  at  the  same  time. 


WAYS  TO  SAVE  COAL  OR  WOOD. 


2    0AMJ*£/?  OV£/? /?//?£ 


\    *S/f  &7 'OAAfSERSL   


STOV£  /*//*£  £>AM£>£&     5 

OVEA/  DAM/>£P  3 


78         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV— Part  1— TALKS  ON  FOOD 

SAVE  FUEL  WHEN  YOU  COOK 

United  States  Food  Leaflet  No.    I  2 

Whatever  fuel  you  use,  make  it  go  as  far  as  possible.  Money  saved  on  fuel  can 
well  be  spent  on  better  foods  to  cook,  and  if  you  cut  down  your  use  of  fuel,  you  can  help 
make  the  supply  go  around. 

To  have  a  fire  you  must  have,  besides  fuel,  air  to  make  it  burn.  In  gas  and  oil 
stoves  the  air  supply  is  regulated  by  the  makers.  In  coal  or  wood  ranges  or  cook  stoves 
you  must  regulate  it  by  means  of  dampers. 

LEARN  TO  USE  EVERY  DAMPER  IN  YOUR  KITCHEN  RANGE 

The  important  dampers  are: 

1.  Damper  in  the  ash  pit  which  lets  in  the  air  which  passes  through  the  fuel  box, 
making  the  fire  burn. 

2.  Damper  over  the  fire  controlling  air  to  flow  in  above  the  fire. 

3.  Oven  damper  which  switches  the  current  of  hot  air  around  the  oven  instead  of 
letting  it  go  by  the  shorter  path  up  the  stovepipe. 

4.  Check  draft  damper  in  the  stovepipe  just  above  the  range.  This  is  not  always 
found  and  is  less  important  than  the  rest. 

5.  Stove  pipe  damper  which  checks  heat  from  escaping  up  the  chimney. 

Make  Your  Fire  the  Right  Way — To  make  a  fire  in  a  range,  whether  coal  or  wood, 
close  all  dampers  of  the  stove  and  shake  the  firebox  to  free  it  from  ashes,  dust,  and  clinkers. 
Take  off  the  lids  over  the  fire-box,  place  crumpled  paper  in  the  fire-box,  arrange  kindlings 
over  and  around  it  so  that  air  can  pass  freely  between  them,  and  put  on  a  small  shovelful 
of  coal.  Light  the  paper,  open  dampers  Nos.  1,  3,  and  5,  and  put  on  lids.  When  the  coal 
glows  red,  a  little  more  coal  should  be  added,  and  when  the  fire  is  burning  well,  the  fire-box 
may  be  filled.      If  wood  is  used  as  fuel,  put  on  a  few  sticks  at  a  time. 

Learn  to  Manage  the  Fire — By  the  proper  use  of  the  dampers  the  fire  can  be  con- 
trolled and  the  heat  regulated. 

No.  1 .  The  damper  in  the  ash  pit.  This  should  always  be  kept  open  when  the 
fire  is  burning  as  it  is  the  best  source  of  air  for  the  fire.  Close  it  only  when  you  dump  the 
grate  and  when  the  fire  is  banked  to  keep  it  for  some  time.  However,  if  there  is  no  stove- 
pipe damper,  the  damper  in  the  ash  pit  must  be  closed  to  check  the  draft  when  the  fire 
burns  too  hard. 

No.   2.   The  damper  over  the  fire.      Close  this  when  you  are  starting  a  fire.     If  the 
fire  burns  too  rapidly  so  that  the  flames  are  long  enough  to  reach  the  back  row  of  lids,  open 
the  damper  a  little  bit.     This  will  shorten  the  length  of  the  flame  and  give  you  more  heat.  ' 
If  you  open  this  too  much  it  may  cool  the  oven. 

No.  3.  The  oven  damper.  When  this  damper  is  closed  the  flames  and  smoke  and 
hot  air  are  forced  to  pass  around  the  oven  to  heat  it  and  then  afterwards  they  escape  up 
the  chimney.  When  the  damper  is  open  they  pass  directly  up  the  chimney.  As  soon  as 
the  fire  is  burning  well,  close  this  damper  so  that  the  oven  will  be  heated.  This  will  keep 
the  oven  so  that  you  can  make  it  very  hot  quickly  by  adding  extra  fuel  and  will  warm  your 
room  if  the  oven  door  is  left  open.  With  this  damper  closed  you  will  use  much  less  fuel 
than  by  allowing   the  heated   air  to   take   the  shorter  path  up  the  chimney. 

No.  4.  The  Check  draft  damper  in  the  stovepipe.  It  should  be  kept  closed  except 
when  the  fire  is  banked. 

No.  5.  The  stovepipe  damper.  This  is  a  most  important  damper.  It  can  control 
the  amount  of  fuel  burned,  as  the  more  slowly  the  hot  air  passes  up  the  pipe  the  more 
slowly  the  fire  burns.      A  great  deal  of  the  fuel  sometimes  merely  furnishes  heat  that  escapes 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— OVEN,  GAS  AND  OIL  79 

up  the  chimney.  Check  this  escape  of  heat  and  burn  less  fuel  by  using  the  pipe  damper. 
If  your  fire  is  burning  too  hard,  instead  of  closing  the  damper  in  the  ash  pit,  close  the  one 
in  the  pipe,  for  it  checks  the  fire  much  more  effectively  than  the  oter  damper. 

If  your  oven  does  not  heat  even  with  the  oven  damper  closed,  it  is  probably  be- 
cause the  air  carried  around  the  oven  has  been  pulled  through  the  fire  so  fast  that  it  has 
not  been  thoroughly  heated  itself  and  can  not  heat  the  oven.     Close  the  pipe  damper. 

Keep  Your  Range  Cleaned  Out — If  the  fire-box  is  clogged  with  ashes,  air  can  not 
pass  through  the  fuel  to  make  it  burn.  If  soot  hangs  on  the  stove  lids,  less  heat  can  come 
through  it.     A  layer  of  ashes  over  the  top  and  under  the  oven  keeps  it  from  heating  quickly. 

Banking  the  Fire — It  is  an  economy  to  keep  a  hard-coal  fire  over  from  day  to  day, 
especially  if  the  range  is  used  as  a  source  of  heat  for  the  room.  As  a  rule  a  wood  fire  is 
hard  to  keep  over  but  the  hard-coal  fire  can  be  easily  kept.  In  the  evening  rake  out  the 
ashes,  put  coal  on,  and  open  the  dampers  until  the  fresh  fuel  is  burning  well.  Put  on  coal 
until  the  fire-box  is  almost  full  and  close  all  the  dampers  except  the  check  draft  damper  in 
the  stovepipe. 

Think  of  the  Fire  When  You  Select  the  Food  to  Cook — If  you  keep  a  slow  fire  in 
your  range  all  day  to  supply  heat  for  the  room,  select  foods  that  require  long,  slow  cooking. 
Baked  beans  or  peas,  roasts,  and  puddings  can  be  baked  in  the  oven  and  cereals  cooked  in  a 
double  boiler  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  Avoid  foods  that  require  a  very  hot  fire  for  a  long 
time. 

Gas,  Kerosene  or  Coal  Oil,  and  Gasoline  are  economical  for  cooking  if  carefully 
used.  Never  mix  two  liquid  fuels  and  never  use  gasoline  in  an  oil  stove,  for  each  requires 
a  special  burner.     Use  all  with  care. 

WAYS  TO  SAVE  GAS  AND  OIL 

Reduce  the  Number  of  Burners  Used — You  can  cook  more  than  one  kind  of  food 
over  the  same  burner.  If  you  have  a  colander  or  a  wire  basket  that  fits  over  an  ordinary 
kettle,  you  can  steam  such  vegetables  as  carrots  or  squash  in  the  colander  at  the  same 
time  that  you  boil  potatoes  in  the  kettle.  The  under  part  of  the  double  boiler  can  be  used 
to  boil  eggs  or  small  vegetables,  while  cereal  cooks  in  the  upper  part.  Compartment  ves- 
sels that  have  two  or  three  separate  divisions  fitting  together  over  one  burner  may  be  pur- 
chased. 

Regulate  the  Size  of  the  Flame — Turn  the  flame  down  after  the  boiling  point  is 
reached,  for  water  that  is  boiling  fast  is  no  hotter  than  water  that  is  boiling  slowly.  When 
the  flame  spreads  up  around  the  vessel  you  are  wasting  fuel. 

Don't  Be  Afraid  of  Relighting  the  Gas — Turn  it  out  when  you  remove  the  vessel 
from  the  burner.      Matches  are  cheaper  than  gas. 

Have  a  Regular  Bake  Day — If  you  bake  bread,  bake  as  much  at  one  time  as  will 
be  eaten  before  it  dries  out. 

Don't  Light  the  Oven  to  Bake  a  Single  Dish — If  you  have  a  roast  for  dinner  that  re- 
quires the  use  of  the  oven,  plan  a  baked  dinner.  Beef  roast  with  brown  potatoes,  scalloped 
tomatoes,  and  Apple  Betty  all  could  be  baked  at  one  time.  Or,  if  you  light  the  oven  to  bake 
quick  breads  or  cake,  bake  fruit  or  a  dessert  for  another  meal.  Small  ovens  that  fit  over 
one  burner  save  fuel. 

Select  foods  that  can  be  quickly  cooked.  Cook  in  larger  quantities  such  foods  as 
cereals  and  soups  that  require  long  cooking.  They  will  keep  in  the  refrigerator  and  you  will 
save  much  fuel.  Leaflet  No.  1  3  tells  how  to  make  a  fireless  cooker  at  home  and  how  to 
use  it  to  cut  down  your  use  of  fuel.  No  matter  what  kind  of  fuel  you  use,  the  fireless 
cooker  can  help  you  save  it. 


THE  FIRELESS  COOKER 

There  is  nothing  new  under  the  sun,  and  the  fireless  cooker,  which  has  of 
recent  years  come  into  much  usage,  was  known  to  the  ancients.  The  Chinese  and 
the  Crusaders  knew  and  practiced  its  principle,  and  the  "clam-bake"  of  the  East  and 
"barbecue"  of  the  West  are  only  special  forms  in  which  the  principle  is  used. 

Fireless  cooking  does  not  mean  cooking  without  fire.  The  cooker  does  not 
supply  its  own  heat.  One  does  not  accuse  a  refrigerator  of  attempting  to  furnish 
its  own  ice.  The  cooker  merely  uses  stored  heat,  as  the  refrigerator  does  stored 
cold.  It  is  only  that  the  fireless  cooker  retains  the  heat  that  goes  into  it,  and  gives  it 
off  to  the  cooking  process  later.  It  is  economical  because  this  surplus  heat  is  stored 
and  not  lost,  as  is  the  case  if  the  same  foods  are  left  to  simmer  over  a  fire. 

There  are  many  advantages  in  the  fireless  cooker.  There  are  no  burned  hands  and 
no  spoiled  food  if  the  meal  is  kept  waiting.  The  utensils  last  a  long  time  and  are  easily 
cleaned  each  time  used — there  are  no  blackened  pans  to  be  scrubbed.  There  is  no  unpleas- 
ant odor  over  the  house  from  the  cooking,  and  cheap  cuts  of  meat  may  be  used  because  they 
can  be  cooked  long  and  slowly  to  soften  their  toughness. 

In  fireless  cooking  the  heat  needed  is  only  enough  to  bring  the  food  up  to  the  cooking 
temperature.  The  cooker  then  retains  this  heat,  and  the  food  continues  to  cook  slowly  until 
done,  or  ready  to  serve.  It  is  not  intense  heat  that  cooks  properly,  but  even  heat  slowly  and 
steadily  supplied. 

The  cooker  saves  hours  of  time.  Once  in  the  cooker  the  food  can  be  practically 
forgotten  while  one  goes  about  other  household  duties.  One  can  go  shopping  while  the 
dinner  is  "cooking  itself."      Cereals  for  breakfast  may  be  cooked  over  night. 

The  fireless  cooker  may  be  used  as  an  "iceless"  freezer.  It  is  simply  a  reversal  of 
principle.  Excellent  mousses,  custards  and  other  desserts  may  be  made  in  a  cooker,  with  the 
application  of  a  little  cracked  ice  in  the  bottom,  to  give  off  its  refrigeration  later,  instead  of 
heat  to  give  its  cooking  quality  in  the  usual  manner. 

As  in  any  other  branch  of  cookery,  one  will  usually  fail  to  get  the  best  results  at  first 
in  a  fireless  cooker.  It  has  to  be  studied,  and  practiced  a  bit  on  the  different  foods  until 
one  gets  them  "just  right."  But  one  does  not  quit  on  biscuit  because  they  do  not  turn  out 
as  expected  the  first  time  tried.  Apply  the  same  common  sense  to  a  fireless  cooker;  get  a 
good  one  and  keep  at  it  for  a  week  or  so  until  you  learn  its  personality,  and  you  will  not 
thereafter  be  without  it. 

You  do  not  need  special  recipes  for  the  fireless  cooker.  Take  any  food  that  you 
have  used  on  your  cook  stove,  put  it  in  the  fireless  cooker,  and  it  will  turn  out  better. 
Vegetables  and  cereals  that  need  long  cooking  are  of  far  finer  flavor  when  cooked  by  this 
method. 

A  food  to  be  boiled  must  actually  boil  for  five  minutes  before  being  set  in  the  cooker; 
it  must  be  at  the  boiling  point  all  the  way  through.  Do  not  try  to  cook  too  small  a  quantity 
of  anything  by  this  method.      A  small  quantity  does  not  retain  the  heat. 

But  most  especially  remember  it  is  not  a  matter  of  an  intricate  art  or  special  recipes 
but  rather  that  you  get  the  habit  of  putting  your  foods  in  the  filess  cooker  as  a  matter  of  course 
instead  of  on  or  in  the  stove,  and  your  work  and  time  will  be  cut  in  two  and  your  food  will  be 
of  finer  flavor  and  more  wholesome  in  every  way. 

80 


TALKS  ON   FOODS— THE   FIRELESS   COOKER  81 

LET  THE 

FIRELESS  COOKER 

HELP  YOU  COOK 

United  States  Food  Leaflet  No.    13 

You  can't  afford  to  be  without  one.  The  fireless  cooker  can  save  fuel  in  winter  and 
make  your  kitchen  comfortable  in  summer.  It  will  save  you  time  and  labor  for  you  can 
have  your  dinner  cooking  while  you  attend  to  other  duties  or  go  away  from  home.  Make 
one  for  yourself.  It  may  cost  less  than  a  dollar  and  will  pay  for  itself  in  time  and  fuel  saved. 
Or  buy  a  ready-made  one. 

How  a  Fireless  Cooker  Cooks — First  the  food  is  made  as  hot  as  it  can  be  on  the 
stove,  then  it  is  put  immediately  into  the  cooker.  Once  there,  it  stays  hot  and  keeps  on 
cooking.  The  walls  of  the  fireless  cooker  keep  the  heat  in  just  as  the  walls  of  a  good 
refrigerator  keep  the  heat  out. 

MATERIALS  NEEDED  FOR  A  FIRELESS  COOKER 

1 .  The  Outside  Container — Any  good-sized  box  or  bucket  with  a  tight  cover — a 
grocery  box,  a  butter  firkin,  a  wooden  candy  bucket,  a  1  00  pound  lard  can,  or  a  new  gar- 
bage can. 

2.  Packing  Material — Soft  hay  excelsior,  ground  cork,  sawdust,  tightly  crumpled 
newspaper,  or  any  other  good  non-conducting  material  that  can  be  packed  in  closely.  This 
packing  material  forms  a  nest  for  the  cooking  vessel. 

3.  The  nest  Lining — A  metal  or  enamel  bucket  and  sheet  asbestos  to  cover  the 
bucket.  The  bucket  must  have  straight  sides  and  a  lid  and  must  be  of  such  a  size  as  to 
allow  at  least  three  inches  of  packing  material  between  it  and  the  outside  container,  top, 
bottom,  and  sides. 

4.  The  Cooking  Vessel — A  vessel  with  a  tight  lid  to  fit  closely  into  the  nest  lining 
and  yet  slip  in  and  out  easily,  or  two  or  three  of  the  small  ones  especially  made  for  the  fire- 
less.    The  best  kind  is  of  enamel,  granite  or  aluminum. 

5.  Cardboard — To  make  the  collar. 

6.  The  Cushion — Denim  or  muslin  stuffed  with  the  packing  material.  This  cushion 
is  to  be  pressed  down  across  the  top  under  the  outside  lid. 

7.  Two  Soapstone  Disks — Purchasable  at  a  hardware  store.  They  are  not  needed 
for  all  cooking,  but  with  them  you  can  cookmore  quickly  and  in  greater  variety. 

TO  MAKE  THE  FIRELESS  COOKER 

1 .  Line  the  outside  container  with  newspaper  if  a  wooden  box  is  used. 

2.  Pack  the  bottom  of  the  outside  container  compactly  with  a  layer  of  the  packing 
material  to  the  depth  of  three  inches  or  more. 

3.  Cut  a  circle  of  asbestos  two  inches  larger  in  diameter  than  the  nest  lining.  Place 
the  asbestos  mat  in  the  center  of  the  packing. 

4.  Cut  a  strip  of  asbestos  big  enough  to  cover  completely  the  outside  walls  of  the 
bucket  which  is  to  serve  as  the  nest  lining,  and  tie  it  in  place. 

5.  Place  the  bucket  with  its  asbestos  covering  directly  in  the  center  on  the  asbestos 
mat.  Hold  in  place  and  tightly  fill  in  the  space  between  it  and  the  walls  of  the  outside 
container  with  the  packing  material.  Pack  in  solidly  to  within  one-half  inch  of  the  top  of 
the  bucket.  The  success  of  your  cooker  depends  largely  upon  the  tightness  with  which 
you  crowd  in  the  packing  material,  which  prevents  the  heat  from  escaping  from  your  hot 
food. 


82 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV— Part  I— TALKS  ON  FOOD 


6.  Cut  a  piece  of  cardboard  to  fit  in  the  outside  container.  Cut  a  hole  in  the  middle 
of  it  which  will  fit  closely  over  the  bucket  which  forms  the  nest  lining.  This  "collar"  holds 
the  packing  material  in  place. 

7.  Make  the  cushion  for  the  top  by  cutting  two  pieces  of  cloth  the  size  of  the  out- 
side container  and  putting  them  together  with  a  straight  strip  of  cloth  three  inches  wide. 
Stuff  with  the  packing  material. 

8.  Outside  finishings.  If  a  box  is  used  for  the  outside  container,  the  lid  should  be 
hinged  and  fastened  down  with  a  hook.  If  it  is  of  wood,  paint  or  stain  it  a  dark  color. 
Casters  make  it  convenient  to  move  about. 


.lid 

-cujhion. 
-Collar 

-.Coofa-ni-veji&l 

.^metal  bucket 
for  riejt  lining 


2^,.^packin4  material 


Cross  Section  of  Fireless  Cooker. 


SOME  PRECAUTIONS  IN  USING  THE  FIRELESS 

Don't  let  the  food  or  disks  cool  before  you  put  them  in  the  fireless.  The  food  will 
not  cook  unless  there  is  enough  heat  shut  up  with  it.  Reheat  the  food  that  requires  long 
cooking,  if  it  cools  before  it  is  finished.  Reheat  the  food  before  serving,  if  necessary.  A 
small  quantity  of  food  cools  quickly,  so  either  use  the  disks  or  put  a  small  vessel  containing 
the  food  in  the  regular  cooking  vessel  and  surround  it  with  hot  water. 

Soapstone  disks  will  increase  the  usefulness  of  your  cooker.  They  can  be  heated 
hotter  than  the  boiling  point  of  water,  and  when  shut  up  in  the  fireless  furnish  heat  which 
cooks  the  food.  If  you  made  your  fireless  according  to  directions,  you  can  safely  use  the 
disks.  Heat  them  very  hot,  but  do  not  let  them  get  red  hot  for  fear  of  cracking.  With  one 
below  and  one  on  top  of  the  cooking  vessel  you  will  be  able  to  roast  meat  or  even  to  bake 
bread  or  puddings.  Without  the  disks  your  fireless  is  useful  only  for  certain  kinds  of  food 
— cereals,  beans,  pot  roasts,  stews,   etc. — things  that  can  be  cooked  in  water. 


TALKS  ON  FOODS— THE  FIRELESS  COOKER 


83 


SOME  FIRELESS  SPECIALTIES 


CEREALS 

Prepare  as  for  the  stove,  but  use  one-sixth  less 
water.  Boil  for  1  0  minutes,  or  longer  with  coarser 
cereals.  Place  in  the  cooker  boiling  hot  and  leave 
6  or  8  hours  or  over  night. 

MEATS 

Buy  cheaper  cuts.  The  fireless  can  make  tough 
meat  tender.      For  more  recipes  see  Leaflet  No.    5. 

CREOLE  STEW 

One  pound  lean  beef  or  I  medium  fowl,  2  cups 
tomatoes,  I  cup  carrots  or  okra  cut  small,  I  cup 
chopped  sweet  peppers,  J/2  cup  rice,  '/£  cup 
chopped   onion,    I    teaspoon  salt,    I    tablespoon   fat. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces  or  cut  the  fowl 
into  joints.  Melt  the  fat,  add  the  onions,  peppers, 
meat  or  chicken.  Brown  for  a  'ew  minutes.  Put 
in  cooking  vessel  with  seasoning,  rice,  vegetables, 
and  one  cup  boiling  water.  Simmer  for  yi  hour 
and    put    in    fireless    for    3    hours   without    the    disks 


or  2  hours  with  them.     With  chicken  and  okra  this 
is   the   famous  Creole  chicken   of  the  South. 


ROASTS 

Sear    the    roast,    season,    place 
vessel  between  two  hot  disks. 
Allow  25   minutes  per  pound. 


the    cooking 
Do  not  add   water. 


SOUP  STOCK 

Cut  up  meat,  crack  bones,  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  Let  it  reach  the  boiling  point,  then  place 
in   cooker  for  several   hours. 

DRIED  FRUITS   AND   VEGETABLES 

Peas,  beans,  corn,  dried  fruit — soak  in  water 
until  restored  to  the  original  size.  Boil  a  few  min- 
utes, then  keep  in  the  cooker  6  to  1 2  hours.  Baked 
beans  or  peas  are  especially  good  cooked  in  the 
fireless.      See  Leaflet  No.    1 4. 

For  more  recipes  send  to  the  Department  of 
Agriculture  for  Farmers'  Bulletin  771,  "Home- 
made  Fireless  Cookers  and  Their  Use." 


FORM   THE   OLIVE   OIL   HABIT 

The  medicinal  value  of  fats  is  very  great.  Olive  oil  is  one  of  the  best  of 
foods.  It  is  a  laxative  and  body  builder.  We  are  apt  to  forget  that,  like  both  the 
front  gate  and  the  sewing  machine,  the  human  system  needs  a  lubricant,  and  for  this 
there  is  nothing  better  than  olive  oil. 

The  best  varieties  of  olive  oil  come  to  us  from  Italy  and  France.  Spain  also 
produces  a  clear,  excellent  oil ;  but  for  the  American  taste  the  Spanish  oil  is  a  little 
too  strongly  flavored.  Indeed,  we  might  take  a  valuable  lesson  from  the  Italian  and 
French  peasants  who  use  olive  oil  almost  to  the  exclusion  of  other  fats,  and  cer- 
tainly the  women  of  these  peoples  are  thrifty  housewives,  fully  aware  of  the  eco- 
nomic excellence  of  the  oil.  When  the  cost  of  olive  oil,  as  against  that  of  other 
fats,  is  not  too  great  for  the  family  purse,  it  should  be  used  liberally. 

Olive  Oil  for  Cooking — With  the  growing  demand  for  olive  oil  unfortunately  the 
adulterater  has  put  out  oil  that  is  not  absolutely  pure;  and  although  Uncle  Sam  has  almost 
stopped  the  adulteration  with  seed  oils  the  careful  housewife  will  find  that  there  is  only  one 
safe  way  to  avoid  being  imposed  on  with  mixtures  of  inferior  foreign  oils,  and  that  is  to  find 
a  standard,  reliable  brand  and  refuse  any  substitute. 

Form  the  Habit — The  cost  of  the  best  oil  is  normally  in  the  vicinity  of  $1.00  a  quart, 
and  although  this  may  seem  to  many  housewives  to  put  it  in  the  class  of  luxuries,  they  must 
stop  and  think  of  the  varied  uses  and  the  nutritive  value  of  good  oil. 

Form  the  habit  of  keeping  a  quart  can  of  oil  in  the  refrigerator,  then  use  it  as  plenti- 
fully as  the  purse  will  permit ;  the  results  in  the  improved  cooking  and  family  health  will  con- 
vince the  most  skeptical  of  its  merits  as  a  family  necessity. 

Tin  has  now  almost  replaced  glass  as  a  container  for  olive  oil,  and  not  only  because 
tin  is  cheaper,  lighter  and  more  convenient,  but  also  because  a  strong  light  deteriorates  olive 
oil.  Keep  the  can  of  oil  in  an  even  temperature  and  after  it  is  opened  in  a  cool  temperature; 
and  as  it  is  quick  to  absorb  other  odors  keep  it  corked  or  tightly  closed. 

To  make  olive  oil  recipes  the  success  they  should  be,  the  following  must  be  observed : 
Buy  quart  cans.  Buy  a  known  and  reliable  brand,  and  once  you  are  suited  accept  no  substi- 
tute and  don't  look  for   "bargains" — they  will  result  in  dissatisfaction. 

Almost  everything  to  be  fried  is  improved  by  being  cooked  in  olive  oil.  Apples, 
eggs,  omelets,  and  even  steaks  or  cutlets  are  delicious  when  cooked  in  this  way,  while  a  steak 
whose  tenderness  is  in  doubt  will  be  rendered  excellent  if  it  is  saturated  in  a  mixture  of 
olive  oil  and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

Fritter  batters,  corn,  oysters,  etc.,  will  prove  a  revelation  if  oil  is  used  for  the  shorten- 
ing, as  they  will  be  lighter,  far  more  delicate  and  consequently  easier  of  digestion. 

Certain  other  vegetable  oils  are  very  good  and,  except  for  flavor,  very  nearly  as 
desirable  as  olive  oil.  It  is  not  intended  here  to  recommend  the  exclusive  use  of  olive  oil 
over  these  others,  which  are  in  most  cases  absolutely  pure  and  wholesome.  But  the  use  of 
olive  oil  is  not  ordinarily  appreciated  to  the  extent  it  should  be,  and  the  housewife  should  by 
all  means  "form  the  habit"  of  using  it  as  freely  as  she  can. 


84 


THE  KITCHEN  AND  COOKERY 


Part  2 


COOKING   RECIPES 

with 

TALKS  ON  COOKING 

APPERTAINING  TO  THE  VARIOUS 

FOODS 

and 

INSTRUCTIONS 


A  COMPLETE 
COOK  BOOK 


Condensed  and  Simplified 


TWO   "TIPS" 

1.  Keep  the  cook  book,  when  using  it,  directly  over 

the  kitchen  table,  on  a  slanting  shelf,  where  it  will 
remain  open  to  be  easily  read  and  may  be  kept 
clean  through  little  handling. 

2.  When  trying  a  new  recipe,  FOLLOW  IT.      Do  not 

experiment  with  it  the  first  time. 

87 


COOKING   AND   RECIPES 

WITH  TALKS  ON  COOKNG  AND  INSTRUCTIONS 
CONTENTS 

Page 

TABLES  OF  MEASURES  AND  PROPORTIONS 91 

Kitchen  Helps;  Conveniences;  Utensils — Their  Care;  Misc- 
ellaneous Helps,  Appliances;  Washing  and  Cleaning; 
Cooking  Hints:  Left-Over  Foods;    Plain    Patterns    in 

Cookery 93-114 

Class     1.     SOUP    117-121 

2.  MEATS:  Meat  Talks;  Butcher  Cuts;  Choosing  Meats;  Eco- 

nomical Use  of  Meat;  In  Place  of  Meat;  Substitutes.  .  .  .  123-136 

3.  BEEF 139-140 

4.  MUTTON  and  LAMB 141-143 

5.  VEAL;  Sweetbreads 145-148 

6.  PORK 149-150 

7.  POULTRY   151-154 

Poultry  and  Game  Stuffing 155 

8.  GAME    157-158 

9.  FISH:   Talks   on   Fish,   Preparation  and  Recipes 159-164 

10.  SHELLFISH    165-166 

11.  Fish  and  Meat  SAUCES 167-169 

12.  EGGS   171-173 

13.  ENTREES 175-178 

14.  SAVORIES — Recipes;  Cheese;     Its  Use  in  Diet 179-183 

15.  SALADS  and  Salad  Dressings 185-189 

16.  VEGETABLES:    Composition;  Preparation     and  Cooking; 

Potato  Talks;  Vegetables  for  Winter  Use;  Recipes    .  191-205 

17.  BREAD:  Principles  of  Making  and  Recipes;   Stale  Bread 

Recipes;  Cereal  Combination  Recipes 207-216 

CEREAL    FOODS   217-221 

18.  ROLLS — Buns,  etc 223-224 

19.  BISCUIT — Muffins,    Pancakes,    Waffles;  Doughnuts;  Crul- 

lers; Shortcake 225-228 

20.  CAKE — Cookies    229-236 

21.  PASTRY — Pies,    Dumplings 237-239 

22.  PUDDINGS  and  Pudding  Sauces 241-243 

23.  CUSTARDS  and  CREAMS 245-247 

24.  ICE  CREAMS  and  ICES 249-251 

25.  PICKLES   and   Catsup 253-255 

26.  SEASONINGS  and  Their  Uses 256-257 

27.  SANDWICHES  and  NUTS 259-263 

28.  FRUITS  and  BERRIES 265-267 

29.  CANDIES  Made  at  Home 269-272 

30.  Drinks — Study   on   Beverages    275-281 

31.  PRESERVING  FOODS  IN  THE  HOME;  Canning,  Drying, 

Pickling,  Storing;  Preserves,  Jellies,    Jams;   Keeping   of 

Foods  in  the  Home 283-318 

32.  MENUS^For  Special  Occasions  and  for  Seasons 321-327 

89 


TABLES 

All  measures  are  level — leveling  is  done  by  passing  over  top  the  back  of  a 
case-knife. 

Flour,  sugar,  soda,  etc.,  should  be  sifted  before  measuring. 

Do  not  pack  these  in  measuring. 

Butter,  lard,  etc.,  however,  should  be  packed,  and  then  made  level  with 
case-knife. 

For  a  half-spoonful,  divide  through  center  lengthwise. 


TABLE  OF  MEASURES 


A  "speck"  or  trifle 

4    saltspoons     

3    teaspoons 

1  6    tablespoons    .  .  . 

2 
I 

2 
2 
4 
3 

4 
2 
2 
2 
2 


gills    

wine  glass 

tablespoons  butter 

tablespoons    granulated    sugar.  .  .  . 

cups  sifted  heavy  or  "pastry"  flour . 

1-5  cups  sifted  fine  light  flour.  .  .  . 

tablespoons  sifted  fine  light  flour.  . 

cups   granulated   sugar 

cups  butter 

cups   chopped  meat,  packed 

cups   rice 

I    cup   corn-meal 

I    cup   steamed   raisins 

I    cup   cleaned  currants 

I    cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

8   or  9  large,  or  9  or   10  small,  egg 


!4 

saltspoon 

teaspoon 

tablespoon 

cup 

cup 

Vt 

gill 

ounce 

ounce 

pound 

pound 

ounce 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

6 

ounces 

6 

ounces 

6 

ounces 

2 

ounces 

pound 

For:    I 


Use: 


TABLE    OF    PROPORTIONS 

quart   of  flour   allow 1  1/3  cup  of  butter,  or  butter  and  lard 

mixed    for   pastry. 

4  tablespoons   of  butter   for  biscuit. 

6  tablespoons   of  butter   for   shortcake. 

I  cup   of  butter  for  cup   cakes. 

1  level  teaspoon  of  salt. 

4  teaspoons   of  baking  powder. 

I  pint  of  liquid  for  batters. 

measure  of  liquid  to 3  measures  of  flour  for  bread. 

teaspoon   of  soda   to    I  pint  of  sour  milk. 

teaspoon   of  salt   to     1  pound   meat. 


NOTE. — Less  butter  may  be  used  than  the  above.  In  the  best  practice,  as  recommended  by  the 
U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,  it  is  recommended  that  both  butter  (or  other  fats)  as  well  as  sugar,  be  used 
as  sparingly  as  proper  flavor  will  permit  in  all  cooking — much  less  than  usually  prevails  from  old  estab- 
lished custom.      This  is  more  wholesome  as  well  as  economical  and  sensible  in  every  way. 


91 


92  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IV— Part  2— Cooking  and  Recipes 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CARE  OF  UTENSILS  AND  GENERAL  CONVENIENCES 

There  are  two  maxims  which  the  housewife  should  have  in  mind  when  she 
enters  her  kitchen  workshop.  They  are:  "Plan  your  work  and  work  your  plan," 
and  "A  place  for  everything  and  everything  in  its  place." 

A  few  simple  articles  kept  handy  and  a  little  judgment  used  in  the  arrange- 
ment of  shelves,  tables  and  hooks,  will  do  wonders  towards  lessening  labor  and 
saving  steps. 

The  old  saying  that  it  is  as  cheap  to  sit  as  to  stand  should  be  observed  in 
the  kitchen  of  all  places.  A  revolving  stool,  or  any  kind  of  high  chair  or  seat, 
will  prove  a  boon  to  the  kitchen  worker.  It  is  not  a  sign  of  laziness  but  of  con- 
servation to  sit  while  you  work. 

Have  tables  and  chairs  and  shelves  arranged  to  suit  your  height;  stooping 
and  bending  tire  unnecessarily. 

Above  all  things,  learn  to  think.  In  making  trips  to  the  pantry,  ice  box  or 
cellar,  take  things  to  be  left  there,  and  bring  others  on  the  same  trip.  Heed  the 
old  saying,  "Make  your  head  save  your  heels." 


TABLE  AND  KITCHEN  UTENSILS 

(From   "Selection  of  Household  Equipment" — Yearbook,  Department  of  Agriculture) 

Table  and  kitchen  utensils  make  up  an  important  group  of  furnishings.  Very 
often  the  same  kind  of  articles  in  different  qualities  are  found  in  both  sets.  Table  plates 
differ  from  kitchen  plates  more  in  their  unattractiveness  than  in  any  other  way.  Real  china 
or  porcelain,  which  is  always  translucent  and  of  which  the  choice  tablewares  are  usually 
made,  is  more  suitable  for  occasional  than  general  use  because  it  is  rather  fragile,  but  its  light 
weight,  fine  color  and  smooth  surface  are  undeniably  beautiful.  Earthenware  with  a  good 
glaze  usually  ranks  next  to  porcelain  and  is  very  satisfactory  for  general  use.  The  old  blue 
and  white  Staffordshire  wares,  which  were  so  highly  prized  in  colonial  days  in  this  country, 
belonged   to  this  type,   and  similar  ware  is  still  to  be  obtained  in  many  satisfactory  designs, 

93 


94  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

one  of  the  common  ones  being  the  well  known  willow  pattern.  Large  and  conspicuous 
designs  usually  become  tiresome  on  things  which  are  used  as  frequently  as  table  dishes  and 
it  is  safer  to  select  plain  white  or  some  all-over  pattern  or  inconspicuous  bands  of  flowers, 
color  or  gilt.  It  is  usually  wiser  to  buy  tableware  from  an  open-stock  design  than  to  take 
the  regular  sets,  which  often  include  unnecessary  pieces  and  cannot  always  be  replaced 
when  broken.  Good,  plain  shapes  are  ordinarily  to  be  preferred  to  more  fancy  ones, 
because  they  are  better  adapted  to  their  purposes  and  are  easier  to  clean  than  those  which 
have  irregular  surfaces  which  catch  and  hold  the  dust.  Pitchers,  teapots  and  other  dishes 
with  openings  so  small  that  the  hand  cannot  be  inserted  to  wash  and  'wipe  them  are  to 
be  avoided,  or  a  teapot  which  is  hard  to  clean  on  account  of  an  elaborate  handle.  Kitchen 
crockery,  like  tableware,  should  have  a  good,  smooth-finished  glaze  which  will  clean  easily 
and   not   chip. 

Glassware  is  to  be  obtained  in  almost  any  grade,  from  the  most  expensive  cut- 
glass  to  the  coarse  kind  used  in  jelly  tumblers.  The  choice  depends  on  the  pocketbook, 
but  it  should  not  be  forgotten  that  plain  glass  or  glass  cut  in  a  simple  pattern  is  easier  to 
keep  shining  and  is  usually  more  beautiful  than  any  except  possibly  the  very  expensive 
types  of  elaborately  ornamented  glass. 

Knives,  forks  and  spoons  are  made  in  several  kinds  of  metal.  Silver  is  the  most 
durable  and  always  has  an  intrinsic  value.  Plated  silver  is  made  so  well  and  so  cheaply 
nowadays  that  almost  every  family  can  have  at  least  a  supply  of  forks  and  spoons.  Many 
prefer  steel-bladed  to  silver  knives  for  the  main  course  at  a  meal  because  they  cut  better, 
but  they  are  harder  to  care  for  than  silver  or  plated  ones.  Tea  sets,  pitchers  and  other 
serving  dishes  come  in  good  designs  in  plated  as  well  as  solid  silver.  If  the  family  hap- 
pens to  own  handsome  ones,  they  make  appropriate  sideboard  ornaments;  but  they  require 
frequent  rubbing  up  to  keep  them  bright,  and  unless  they  are  needed  every  day  on  the 
table  it  is  better  to  put  them  away  and  reserve  them  for  special  occasions  than  to  let 
them  stand  about  tarnished. 

There  is  much  discussion  as  to  the  best  material  for  cooking  utensils.  The  truth 
is  that  no  material  is  best  for  all,  and  the  work  is  most  easily  and  satisfactorily  done  if 
different  kinds  are  chosen  for  different  needs.  Earthenware  is  excellent  for  certain  pur- 
poses, as  it  holds  the  heat  evenly,  and  baking  dishes  or  casseroles  in  which  the  food  can 
be  served  as  well  as  cooked  save  dishwashing.  Such  wares  are  not  adapted  to  all  kinds 
of  cooking,  however.  The  great  heat  of  fat  in  frying,  for  example,  especially  when  the 
hot  fat  spatters  up  against  the  cooler  parts  of  the  dish,  is  likely  to  crack  it.  Enameled 
ware  is  light  in  weight,  easy  to  clean,  and  is  little  affected  by  acids;  it  is  excellent  for 
mixing  dishes  and  for  keeping  food  in,  but  the  cheaper  grades  do  not  always  stand  the 
heat  of  cooking  well  and  soon  chip.  The  enamel  should  be  free  from  bubbles  and  have 
smooth,  evenly  finished  edges  which  ■will  not  chip  readily.  Aluminum  heats  quickly  and  so 
economizes  fuel,  comes  in  very  good  shapes,  is  light  to  handle  and  very  durable;  it  is 
affected  by  alkalis,  discolors  easily  and  is  rather  hard  to  clean.  Nevertheless,  since  it  does 
not  rust,  it  is  especially  desirable  for  teakettles,  double  boilers,  kettle  covers,  etc.  Cast 
iron  is  still  common  ware  for  kitchen  utensils,  but  it  is  being  replaced  in  many  homes  by 
materials  which  are  lighter  in  weight  and  less  expensive.  Good  iron  pans  and  skillets  are 
excellent  for  some  kinds  of  cooking,  however,  because  they  heat  more  evenly  than  those 
of  other  materials,  and  they  last  for  generations.  Iron  rusts  easily  and  is  affected  by  acids 
as  aluminum  is  by  alkalis.  It  is  because  of  the  action  of  acids  that  iron  dishes  sometimes 
injure  the  color  and  flavor  of  food,  and  for  this  reason  food,  especially  acid  food,  is 
usually  not  allowed  to  stand  in  them.  Tin  and  sheet  iron  plated  with  tin  are  in  common 
use  in  most  kitchens  because  they  are  rather  inexpensive,  but  they  are  not  entirely  satisfac- 
tory. Unless  they  are  unusually  heavy,  they  lose  their  shape  quickly,  and  in  thinly  plated 
kinds  the  tin  wears  off  and  the  iron  beneath  rusts  easily. 


KITCHEN   HELPS— UTENSILS,   CHOICE   AND   CARE  95 


The  shape  of  kettles  has  much  to  do  with  the  quickness  with  which  their  contents 
heat.  The  smaller  the  surface  which  comes  in  contact  with  the  heat,  the  longer  it  will  take 
the  contents  to  become  warm,  and  vice  versa.  This  means  that  in  a  kettle  with  a  broad 
base  the  contents  heat  more  quickly  than  in  one  with  a  small  base.  The  point  should 
especially  be  considered  where  gas  stoves  are  employed   and  fuel  must  be  carefully  used. 

Because  a  thing  is  to  be  used  in  the  kitchen  is  no  reason  why  it  should  be  ugly 
to  look  at,  and  if  the  housekeeper  can  find  mixing  bowls  and  kettles  which  are  attractive 
in  shape,  color  and  finish,  as  well  as  convenient  and  easy  to  clean,  they  will  give  her  a 
sense  of  pleasure  every  time  they  are  used. 


CHOICE    AND    CARE    OF    UTENSILS 

(Extracts  from  Bulletin  under  above  title,  being  Farm  House  Series  No.   5, 
Cornell   Reading   Course  Lessons  for  the  Farm  Home) 

POINTS  TO  BE  CONSIDERED  IN  CHOICE  OF  UTENSILS 

In  order  to  choose  a  utensil  deserving  of  its  name,  something  fit  for  use,  we  must 
consider  the  following  points: 

Is  the  utensil  genuine,  "as  advertised"?  No  other  investment  of  money  is  so 
bitterly  regretted  as  one  that  calls  for  the  admission,  "This  was  not  worth  buying  at  any 
price." 

Is  the  utensil  durable?  A  purchase  of  permanent  equipment  should  add  enough 
to  the  value  of  the  working  plant  so  that  it  need  not  be  charged  as  an  expense  against  the 
year  of  its  purchase,  but  may  be  treated  as  an  investment  covering  as  many  years  as  its 
usefulness  continues. 

Is  the  utensil  convenient  to  handle?  This  depends  on  more  than  mere  lack  of 
weight.  A  heavy  utensil,  well  balanced,  with  handle  or  bail  set  in  just  the  right  place 
and  way,  may  be  easier  to  use  than  a  lighter  one  in  which  these  points  were  not  con- 
sidered  and  which  must  be  kept  balanced  by  hand  and  wrist  in  order  not  to  tip. 

For  a  utensil  of  moderate  size,  easily  lifted  with  one  hand,  occupying  little  space 
in  itself  and  intended  for  use  on  top  of  the  stove  only,  a  fairly  long  handle  is  best;  it  does 
not  get  in  the  way  of  the  cover  or  contents  to  be  poured  out,  and  may  be  so  constructed 
as   not   to   grow  uncomfortably  hot   to   the  hand. 

It  is  convenient,  at  times,  to  have  a  utensil  that  may  be  transferred  at  will  from 
the  top  of  the  stove  to  the  oven.  For  this  purpose  utensils  are  made  with  a  very  short 
handle   or  with  two   handles   of   the  sugar-bowl  type. 

The  half-circle  metal  bail  is  best  reserved  for  vessels  so  large  in  themselves  as  to 
require  much  stove  and  storage  space  and  needing  two  hands  to  lift  them. 

What  kind  of  cover  shall  we  choose?  For  long,  slow  cooking,  when  the  purpose 
is  to  conserve  heat,  moisture  and  flavor,  a  tight  fitting  cover  is  necessary.  For  rapid  boil- 
ing, where  much  steam  is  being  produced,  an  easily  removed  cover  is  an  essential  safe- 
guard. 

Is  the  lip  of  the  utensil  in  the  right  place?  Lips  of  utensils  should  be  on  the  side 
that  is  convenient,  according  as  we  are  right  or  left-handed.  How  many  fulfill  this  re- 
quirement? Those  with  lip  on  each  side  are  plainly  sensible.  Most  utensils  are  designed 
to  be  held  in  the  right  hand  while  pouring  one  liquid  into  another.  This  necessitates  either 
stirring  with  the  left  hand — a  difficult  operation — or  alternately  pouring  and  stirring  with 
the  right  hand. 

Is  the  utensil  easy  to  clean?  In  order  to  insure  ease  of  cleaning,  a  utensil  should 
be  made  of  one  piece   of  metal  with   rounded   edges  or  sides,   not  with  seams  or  corners. 


96         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

It  should  not  have  a  rolled  rim  with  a  rough  edge  underneath.  The  joining  of  utensil 
and  handle  should  not  offer  grooves  or  tunnels  as  gathering  places  for  particles  of  grease, 
dust  and  soap.  It  is  imperatively  important  that  the  inside  rather  than  the  outside  of  the 
utensil  be  smooth,  polished  and  consequently  easy  to  clean.  The  opening  should  be  wide 
enough  to  permit  easy  access  to  every  part  of  the  utensil. 

Is  the  utensil  of  proper  size  and  shape  for  the  amount  and  kind  of  cooking  to  be 
done?  The  pan  that  makes  an  ideal  omelet  for  three  would  produce  a  very  unevenly 
cooked  dish  if  used  for  an  omelet  for  six.  The  breakfast  cereal  for  a  small  family,  if  put 
into  a  large  kettrle  in  the  fireless  cooker,  would  soon  lose  its  small  stock  of  heat  and 
remain  raw. 

If  a  gas  or  an  oil  stove  is  used,  the  size  of  the  bottom  of  the  utensil  greatly  affects 
economy  of  fuel,  time  of  cooking,  and  quality  of  the  finished  product.  If  utensils  fail  to  fit 
the  burner,  a  thin  stove-lid  of  the  proper  size  may  be  placed  over  the  flame. 

The  time  needed  for  evaporation,  or  boiling  down,  depends  on  the  amount  of  sur- 
face exposed;  hence  evaporation  will  go  on  more  rapidly  in  a  utensil  that  flares  at  the  tip 
than  in  one  whose  top  and  bottom  are  of  the  same  size.  The  contents  of  a  utensil  made 
of  material  that  is  a  good  conductor  of  heat,  such  as  aluminum,  will  boil  down  more  rapidly 
than  if  put  into  an  agateware  utensil  of  the  same  size. 

Is  the  utensil  safe  as  a  food  receptacle?  There  must  be  no  risk  of  forming  poison- 
ous compounds.  As  an  illustration:  we  avoid  the  use  of  an  iron  utensil  in  canning  and 
preserving,  because  we  know  that  iron  and  fruit  acids  together  form  a  compound  which, 
although  not  actually  harmful — iron  being  needed  often  in  the  blood — is  of  little  value  when 
taken  in  this  form,  and  is  at  least  a  discoloring  agent  for  the  food  and  therefore  detracting 
from  the  appetizing  appearance.  And  this  caution  should  go  a  step  farther.  If  an.  enamel 
kettle  has  become  chipped,  so  that  the  iron  foundation  and  the  acid  can  combine,  it  is  best 
not  to  use  it  for  cooking  acid  foods;  even  if  the  danger  to  health  is  slight,  there  remains 
the  possible  economic  loss  through  impaired  flavor  or  through  scorching,  as  well  as  the  chance 
that  chips   of   enamel   may   find   their  way   into  the  food. 

UTENSILS  BEST  ADAPTED  TO  THE  DIFFERENT  PROCESSES 
OF  COOKING 

BAKING — Cake — Tin,  if  well  cared  for,  is  the  metal  best  adapted  for  cake  making. 
The  round  tin  with  a  tube  in  the  centre,  known  as  an  angel-cake  tin,  produces  the  most  level 
and  evenly  baked  cake,  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  heat  reaches  the  center  of  the  cake  as 
soon  as  any  other  part.  A  plain  round  tin,  not  too  deep,  gives  the  next  best  result;  a  square 
tin  is  next,  while  an  oblong  tin  requires  very  careful  regulation  of  heat  in  order  to  produce  a 
well-baked  cake. 

Bread — The  choice  of  utensils  for  bread  baking  lies  between  tin  and  Russia-iron  (a 
sheet  iron  treated  by  a  process  having  a  polished  blue-black  surface).  Since  bread  requires 
a  hotter  oven  than  does  cake,  the  Russia-iron  pan  should  have  first  choice;  it  absorbs  more 
heat  than  does  tin,  is  less  affected  by  high  temperature  and  is  more  durable. 

Pie — It  has  been  found  that  the  best  results  are  obtained  from  the  use  of  granite- 
ware  plates,  that  old  tin  plates  are  next  in  order,  while  perforated  and  wire  plates  come 
third. 

Cookies — Cookies  are  best  baked  on  Russia-iron  sheets  cut  to  fit  the  oven,  with 
heavy  tin  sheets  as  second  choice. 

MEATS — Roasting — Roasts  require  a  high  temperature  at  the  start  in  order  to  sear 
the  surface;  for  this  reason  the  best  choice  is  a  pan  of  iron  or  high-grade  granite  ware. 
An  oval  pan  can  be  more  carefully  cleaned  than  one  with  sharp  corners. 


KITCHEN  HELPS— UTENSILS,   CHOICE  AND  CARE  97 

Pot  Roasts — The  iron  kettle  with  a  tight-fitting  cover,  called  also  the  "Dutch 
oven,"  best  supplies  the  steady  heat  that  a  pot  roast  needs.  Although  a  casserole  may  be 
used,  or  a  bean  pot  with  waxed  paper  tied  tightly  over  the  top,  in  either  of  these  there  is 
more  evaporation  than  in  the  iron  kettle,  and  the  roast  is  therefore  drier,  although  just  as 
tender. 

Meat  Stews — Since  in  stews  more  liquid  is  added  than  in  pot  roasts,  the  casserole 
may  well  be  used,  or  a  shallow  aluminum  or  granite-ware  stewpan  with  close-fitting  cover, 
straight  sides,  and  very  short  or  loop-shaped  handles.  The  long,  slow  cooking  may  thus 
be  done  either  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove.  In  brown  stews,  the  meat  is  first  sauteed 
in  an  iron  pan  in  order  to  give  the  desired  color  and   flavor. 

Stewing  Fruits  or  Vegetables — Aluminum,  granite,  or  enamel  ware  is  equally  good 
for  this  purpose.  A  wide,  shallow  type  of  saucepan,  with  well-fitting  cover,  should  be 
selected  for  fruits  and  for  such  vegetables  as  require  to  be  cooked  in  a  small  amount  of 
water;  while  a  deep  saucepan,  without  a  cover,  is  best  for  the  cooking  of  strong-juiced 
vegetables   that   need    a   large   amount   of   water. 

Sauteing — A  rather  heavy  iron  or  steel  frying-pan  is  best  adapted  for  this  pur- 
pose. In  a  thin  pan,  or  in  one  of  granite-ware,  the  fat  passes  too  soon  from  the  tempera- 
ture at  which  it  forms  the  desired  golden -brown  crust  on  the  food  to  be  cooked  to  the 
point  where  it  begins  to  decompose  and  become  irritating  to  the  mucous  membranes. 

Frying — For  frying  in  deep  fat  use  an  iron  or  steel  frying  kettle,  which  may  either 
be  bowl-shaped  or  have  straight  sides.  The  latter  shape  accommodates  a  greater  number 
of  articles  at  a  time,  and  is  more  convenient  for  use  with  a  ■wire  frying  basket,  since  the 
basket  fits  it  more  readily.  In  using  the  bowl-shaped  kettle,  a  long  handled  skimmer 
may  be  found  more  convenient  for  removing  the  food.  The  kettle  should  be  deep  enough 
so  that  when  it  is  two-thirds  full  of  fat  the  food  to  be  cooked  will  be  entirely  immersed. 

Candy-Making — Professional  confectioners  use  a  copper  kettle.  For  the  home  candy- 
maker,  aluminum  comes  nearest  to  copper  in  its  quality  of  conducting  heat.  Syrup  boiled 
in  an  aluminum  kettle  rarely  scorches,  and  the  smooth  surface  makes  it  easy  to  keep  the 
sides  wiped   free   from   sugar  crystals  as  they  form. 

Jelly-Making — Enamel  or  granite-ware  (unless  there  is  a  defect  in  the  enamel 
finish)  is  the  best  selection  for  jelly-making,  because  of  the  ease  with  which  it  may  be 
cleaned  and  the  certainty  that  it  will  neither  affect  nor  be  affected  by  the  acid  of  fruit 
juices. 

CHOICE  OF  VARIOUS  UTENSILS 

Knives — The  assortment  of  knives  should  include  a  bread  knife,  butcher's  knife,  a 
knife  with  waved  edge  for  cutting  fresh  bread  and  cake,  and  a  palette  knife,  used  by 
artists  in  cleaning  palettes  and  adopted  in  every  kitchen  where  cooking  is  classed  among 
the  fine  arts,  as  by  means  of  it  a  bowl  may  be  so  completely  freed  from  the  batter  that 
was  mixed  in  it  as  to  reduce  dish-washing  to  a  minimum,  while  increasing  the  quantity 
of  cake  obtained  to  a  maximum. 

Heating  Knives — To  preserve  the  temper  of  steel  knives,  we  must  avoid  the  practice 
of  heating  the  blade  on  top  of  the  stove  to  facilitate  cutting  fresh  bread  or  cake.  Allow- 
ing hot  water  to  run  over  the  blade  accomplishes  the  same  purpose  without  injury  to  the 
knife,  and  this  should  always  be  done  in  cutting  a  frosted  cake,  in  order  not  to  mar  the 
frosting. 

Egg  Beaters — Different  types  of  egg  beaters  are  needed,  according  to  the  con- 
sistency desired  in  the  beaten  whites.      For  all-round  use,   the  Dover  egg  beater  is  a  good 


98  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

choice,  because  it  works  most  quickly.  The  balloon-shaped  egg  whisk  made  of  piano  wire 
carries  more  air  into  the  mixture,  and  the  flat  wire  beater  gives  the  airiest  texture  of  all. 
Either  of  the  latter  types  is  preferable  to  the  Dover  egg  beater  for  angel-cake,  sponge 
cake   or   meringues. 

Spoons — Spoons  of  hard  wood  should  be  used  whenever  possible;  they  are  lighter 
than  metal  ones,  do  not  discolor  the  hand,  make  less  noise,  do  not  get  hot  to  the  hand, 
and  do  not  scratch  metal  surfaces.  For  basting  roasts,  or  whenever  a  specially  strong 
spoon  is  needed,  a  tinned  iron  spoon  is  good.  Enamel  spoons  are  not  practical,  as  they 
are  likely  to  bend  and  crack  the  enamel. 

Pastry  and  Vegetable  Brushes — If  brushes  are  used  in  connection  with  food — that 
is,  for  greasing  pans  or  for  brushing  rolls  or  pastry  with  butter,  eggs  or  milk — they  must 
be  of  a  kind  that  can  be  cleansed  with  boiling  water.  This  is  impossible  if  the  bristles 
are  glued  in.  The  bristles  should  be  strong  and  pliable  and  should  be  bound  to  the  handle 
with  twine  rather  than  metal.  Small  wooden-backed  brushes  are  indispensable  for  the 
proper  cleaning  of  vegetables,  for  brushing  grated  lemon  rind  from  the  grater,  and  for 
many  other  purposes.  A  round  pitcher-  or  bottle-brush,  and  a  long  wire-handled  trap 
brush   for  the   refrigerator,    are  sanitary  necessities. 

PREPARING   NEW  UTENSILS   FOR   USE 

Iron,  Tin  and  Enamel  Ware — It  is  a  general  custom  to  prepare  a  new  iron  utensil 
for  use,  after  thorough  cleansing,  by  rubbing  unsalted  fat  over  it  and  baking  the  fat  in.  The 
same  treatment  is  adapted  to  tin,  for  while  it  destroys  its  shiny  new  appearance,  it  protects 
the  tin  from  rust  and  increases  its  capacity  for  holding  heat.  Enamel  ware,  too,  is  said  to 
be  protected  from  cracking  and  chipping  if  it  is  well  rubbed  with  fat  before  being  used  for 
the  first  time;  the  fat,  however,  cannot  be  baked  in  as  with  tin  and  iron,  since  it  would  not 
be  absorbed,  but  only  burned  fast  to  the  glaze. 

Glass — Tumblers,  jars  and  lamp  chimneys  may  be  toughened  by  putting  them  into  a 
kettle  of  cold  water,  bringing  it  gradually  to  the  boil,  and  after  boiling  a  few  minutes  allow- 
ing it  to  gradually  cool  again.  ! 

Machinery — Egg  beaters,  ice  cream  freezers,  and  any  other  utensil  in  which  there  is 
friction  between  two  parts,  should  be  carefully  oiled  before  using,  the  wheels  turned  until 
the  oil  has  reached  every  part,  and  all  surplus  oil  wiped  off  before  the  utensil  is  used  for 
food.  The  bearings  should  never  be  put  in  water,  since  they  cannot  be  perfectly  dried  and 
therefore  would  become  roughened  and   clogged  by  rust. 

PROLONGING    THE    USEFULNESS    OF    UTENSILS 

Repair  Kit — A  well  stocked  repair  kit  is  a  necessary  part  of  the  up-to-date  kitchen, 
in  fact  it  applies  to  the  home  generally.  If  we  calculate  the  time,  strength  and  nervous  force 
wasted  in  trying  to  use  a  teakettle  lid  with  a  loose  knob,  as  against  the  time  that  it  would 
take  to  tighten  the  nut  which  holds  that  knob  if  only  the  screwdriver  were  close  at  hand; 
in  hunting  for  the  kitchen  memorandum  in  a  drawer  when  a  nail  and  hammer  would  fasten 
it  to  the  'wall;  in  tugging  at  a  warped  pantry  door  when  a  few  strokes  of  the  plane  would 
make  it  open  and  close  easily;  in  slamming  a  door  that  will  not  close  in  any  other  way,  for- 
the  lack  of  a  drop  of  oil  on  the  catch;  in  having  to  discard  a  pet  saucepan  in  the  midst  of 
preparing  a  company  dinner  because  a  tiny  hole  makes  it  useless,  when  a  drop  of  solder 
would  cure  the  trouble;  in  trying  to  carve  meat  or  cut  bread  with  a  dull  knife,  when  the  pos- 
session of  a  knife  sharpener  and  the  knowledge  of  how  to  use  it  would  make  the  process 
a  pleasure:  we  shall  readily  see  -what  a  change  would  be  wrought  by  the  possession  of  a 


KITCHEN   HELPS— UTENSILS,    CHOICE   AND   CARE  99 

toolchest  containing  hammer,  screwdriver,  plane,  pliers,   oil  can,  saw,  soldering  outfit,  knife 
sharpener,  twine,  shears,  and  such  nails,  tacks,  screws  and  hooks  as  are  most  often  in  demand. 

PROTECTION    OF    UTENSILS    NOT    IN    USE 

If  the  house  is  to  be  closed  for  a  time,  or  if  for  any  other  reason  the  utensils  are 
to  be  set  aside,  all  metals  should  be  protected  from  dampness  by  a  coating  of  vaseline, 
paraffin,  or  unsalted  fat  of  some  kind. 

MATERIALS  AND  THEIR  CARE. 

Iron  and  Steel — Of  the  metals  used  in  our  kitchens,  iron  in  its  three  varieties — cast 
iron,  wrought  iron  and  steel — is  most  common.  Besides  the  utensils  commonly  known  as 
iron  and  steel,  we  have  also  those  in  which  iron  or  steel  form  the  foundation;  tin,  galvan- 
ized iron,  enamel,  and  nickel-plated  ware. 

A  good  iron  or  steel  utensil,  well  cared  for,  grows  better  the  longer  it  is  used. 
The  two  essentials  are  that  it  be  kept  dry  and  that  it  be  kept  smooth.  The  chief  foe  of  iron 
is  rust,  caused  by  the  action  of  moist  air.  Rust  in  itself  has  no  harmful  effect  on  food, 
but  by  roughening  the  utensil  it  makes  it  insanitary.  Moreover,  rust  once  started  pro- 
ceeds  rapidly   to    eat    into    the   utensil   that   it  has  attacked. 

Some  cooks  assert  that  an  iron  utensil  should  never  be  washed,  but  only  thoroughly 
rubbed  after  use,  in  order  that  its  surface  may  be  protected  by  a  constant  coating  of  fat. 
However,  if  the  air  cannot  attack  the  iron,  it  does  attack  the  fat,  causing  decomposition 
which  will  taint  the  food  cooked  in  such  a  utensil.  The  best  way,  therefore,  to  clean  an  iron 
utensil  is  to  boil  in  it  a  solution  of  washing  soda,  rinse  it  with  boiling  water,  and  see  that  it 
is  thoroughly  dry  before  being  put  away.  Iron  that  is  put  away  for  a  time  should  be  pro- 
tected with  paraffin. 

Tin — The  better  grades  of  tin  are  not  affected  by  the  air,  by  weak  acids  such  as 
vinegar  or  fruit  juices,  or  by  alkalis;  they  therefore  effectually  protect  the  steel  foundation. 
Cheap  grades,  however,  are  not  proof  against  the  action  of  acids,  and  all  grades  are  likely 
to  change  under  the  action  of  acids  when  hot.  The  quality  of  tin  used  may  be  determined 
by  noting  how  a  piece  is  marked,  X  being  the  cheapest  and  XXXX  the  best  quality. 

Tin  utensils  must  be  carefully  protected  from  scratches,  since  every  scratch,  by  mar- 
ring the  soft  metal,  exposes  the  steel  foundation  and  is  soon  followed  by  a  streak  of  rust. 
A  tin  utensil  and  a  metal  spoon  should  therefore  never  be  used  in  combination,  nor  should 
a  metal  scraper  be  used  for  cleaning  tin.  Washing  in  hot  soapsuds,  boiling  in  a  weak  solu- 
tion of  washing  soda,  rubbing  with  whiting  or  one  of  the  prepared  cleaning  powders,  are  the 
best  ways  of  caring  for  tin. 

A  Pointer  on  Bread  and  Cake  Boxes — Tin  storage  receptacles  are  good  for  keep- 
ing cookies  and  cake,  but  stone  crocks  are  better  for  bread.  The  difference  lies  in  the 
fact  that  the  process  of  growing  stale  is  a  different  one  in  each  case.  Cookies  turn  stale 
by  absorbing  moisture  from  outside;  therefore  they  require  that  moisture  be  kept  away. 
This  the  impervious  tin  cake-box  does,  especially  if  we  add  to  the  contents  a  few  pieces 
of  charcoal  to  absorb  what  little  moisture  may  accumulate.  Bread  grows  stale  by  a  shift- 
ing of  its  own  moisture  from  crumb  to  crust.  A  fresh  loaf  has  a  crisp  crust  and  a  soft 
crumb,  while  in  a  stale  loaf  the  reverse  is  true.  In  a  tin  box,  especially  if  it  be  unven- 
tilated,  this  moisture,  held  in  the  crust,  soon  makes  a  musty  loaf.  In  a  stone  crock,  which 
is  porous,  the  moisture  has  a  chance  to  escape,  the  crust  becomes  less  soggy,  and  the 
flavor  of  the  loaf  is  better  maintained.  In  cake,  where  there  is  less  difference  in  texture 
betwen  the  outside  and  the  inside  of  the  loaf,  staleness  consists  in  a  gradual  general  loss 
of    moisture.      Cake    is    therefore    better    kept  in  tin,  with  the  addition  of  a  receptacle  con- 


1 00       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

taining  water,  to  be  daily  renewed.  If  cake  and  bread  be  stored  in  the  same  box,  the 
cake  will  take  up  moisture  (and  incidentally  a  bready  flavor)  from  the  bread  and  remain 
moist  longer,  while  the  bread  will  dry  faster  than  when  stored  by  itself. 

Granite  and  Enamel  Ware — Granite  and  enamel  ware  are  made  by  coating  sheet  iron 
or  steel  utensils  with  an  enamel  or  glaze.  Two  or  three  coats  of  enamel  are  applied  suc- 
cessively. The  quality  of  the  enamel  depends  on  the  ingredients  used  and  on  the  num- 
ber of  coats  applied.  Durability  of  granite  and  enamel  ware  depends  no  less  on  the  quality 
of  the  steel  or  iron  foundation  than  on  the  enamel  finish.  The  foundation  should  be  firm 
enough  so  that  it  will  not  bend  or  dent  easily,  since  this  inevitably  cracks  the  enamel. 
The  tendency  to  bend   makes  enamel  spoons  unpractical. 

"Seconds" — There  is  a  mistaken  belief  that  if  we  avoid  so-called  "seconds"  we  are 
sure  of  getting  a  good  article.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  is  only  conscientious  manufacturers 
who  test  their  wares  and  set  aside  as  "seconds"  pieces  that  are  not  perfect  in  color  or  shape, 
or  that  show  in  the  bend  of  the  utensil  pinholes  which  the  enamel  failed  to  cover  perfectly. 
If  the  perfect  pieces,  or  "firsts,"  made  by  such  a  firm  are  beyond  our  purse,  we  are  safer 
in  buying  their  "seconds"  than  in  choosing  cheap  "firsts"  so-called.  A  poor  quality  of  enamel 
soon  wears  off  or  loses  its  gloss  and  may  even  discolor  and  dissolve  in  the  dishwater. 

Galvanized  Iron — If  iron,  instead  of  being  coated  with  tin  or  enamel,  is  dipped  into 
melted  zinc,  it  is  known  as  galvanized  iron.  The  zinc  coating  makes  iron  rust-proof,  hence 
galvanized  iron  is  the  best  material  for  garbage  cans,  refrigerator  pans,  and  the  like.  Zinc 
is  affected  by  the  action  of  salt  by  the  seashore,  so  that  it  does  not  last  well,  and  it  is  not 
safe  for  use  in  cooking  utensils  because  it  is  affected  hy  both  acids  and  alkalis. 

Nickel-Plated  Ware — Another  coating  given  to  iron  is  melted  nickel,  the  product 
being  called  nickel-plated  ware.  This  takes  on  a  high  polish,  does  not  rust  and  is  easily  kept 
clean.  It  is  therefore  much  used  for  coffeepots,  chafing  dishes  and  other  utensils  designed 
for  table  use.  Its  durability  makes  it  desirable  for  use  in  institutions,  but  its  weight  and 
cost  bar  it  to  a  great  extent  from  the  private  kitchen.  Nickel-plated  ware  is  kept  in  good 
condition  by  washing  in  hot  soapsuds  and  rinsing  in  very  hot  water.  It  very  rarely  needs 
friction,  but  may  be  rubbed  if  necessary  with   a  paste  made  of  whiting  and  lard. 

Aluminum — Aluminum  has  come  more  and  more  into  general  use  since  the  cost  of 
producing  it  has  ceased  to  bar  it  out.  The  advantage  of  aluminum  utensils  is  that  they  are 
light,  well  made,  easily  cleaned,  and  are  excellent  conductors  of  heat.  Milk,  rice,  sugar 
and  other  easily  scorched  foods  are  comparatively  safe  in  aluminum. 

Aluminum  does  not  withstand  a  high  temperature.  If  heated  over  a  gas  or  oil 
stove,  the  flame  should  not  be  turned  on  full;  if  over  wood  or  coal,  the  stove  lid  should  be 
left  on.  Many  complaints  of  the  warping  of  aluminum  have  been  due  to  not  using  this 
precaution.  An  aluminum  utensil  may  be  injured  by  allowing  some  foods  to  remain  in 
it  for  any  length  of  time. 

The  outside  of  aluminum  utensils  can  be  kept  bright  by  the  use  of  any  kind  of 
metal  polish  that  is  not  gritty.  The  inside  surface  is  darkened  by  water  containing  alkalis  or 
iron.  This  thin,  dark  coating  is  easily  removed  by  the  use  of  whiting  or  any  of  the 
cleaning  powders  that  do  not  contain  free  alkali.  If  food  or  grease  is  burned  into  the  sur- 
face, it  can  usually  be  soaked  loose  by  keeping  hot  water  in  the  utensil  for  several  hours; 
after  which  it  may  be  scraped  with  a  wooden  spoon.  If  this  fails,  the  utensil  may  be 
scoured  with  fine  sand  or  powdered  emery  or  fine  steel  wool.  The  mild  acid  of  sour  milk 
or  tart  apples,  boiled  in  aluminum,  will  brighten  it  very  effectually. 

Copper — Copper  is,  next  to  silver,  the  best  metallic  conductor  of  heat.  It?  use  in  the 
household  is  limited  because  of  its  expense  and  weight,  the  danger  from  its  use  when  not 
properly  cleaned,  and  the  labor  involved  in  keeping  it  in  good  condition.      Vegetables,   acid 


KITCHEN  HELPS— UTENSILS  and   MISCELLANEOUS  101 

fruits,  or  preserves,  if  cooked  in  copper,  should  not  be  left  for  a  moment  after  they  are 
done.  Copper  and  acid,  when  exposed  to  the  air,  form  verdigris,  which  we  all  know  to  be 
very  poisonous.  The  green  coloring  that  forms  when  copper  is  exposed  to  moist  air  alone 
is  not  verdigris,  although  it  is  often  so  called.  Copper  cooking  utensils  should  be  washed 
with  washing  soda  in  order  to  remove  all  grease;  stains  should  be  removed  with  salt  and 
vinegar,  or  with  oxalic  acid;  and  the  utensil  should  then  be  thoroughly  rinsed.  Unless  the 
acid  used  for  cleaning  is  thoroughly  rinsed  off,  copper  will  tarnish  the  more  quickly  because 
of  its  use.  The  acid  may  be  further  counteracted  by  rubbing  with  whiting.  If  not  stained, 
copper  is  best  brightened  by  rubbing  with  rottenstone  or  tripoli  and  sweet  oil. 

Silver — Silver  is  of  all  metals  the  best  conductor  of  heat,  but  its  costliness  bars  it 
out  as  a  cooking  utensil.  Silver  has  to  be  combined  with  copper  in  order  to  make  a  compound 
hard  enough  for  use.  Plated  silver  is  copper  with  a  thin  coating  of  silver  applied  by  elec- 
tricity. Silver  does  not  tarnish,  that  is,  grow  dark,  unless  it  comes  in  contact  'with  sulphur. 
"Oxidized"  silver  has  been  treated  with  sulphur — in  other  words,  purposely  tarnished.  If 
our  silver  discolors  badly,  there  is  an  escape  of  sulphur  either  from  our  fires  or  from  our 
lights;  or  the  silver  has  been  stored  near  rubber,  or  it  has  been  wrapped  in  paper  or  cloth 
bleached  with  sulphur;  or  it  has  been  used  in  eating  eggs;  or  it  has  been  handled  with  bare 
hands.  The  rule  against  handling  silver  with  the  bare  hand  in  wiping  it  or  in  setting  the 
table  is  a  labor-saving  one,  since  human  perspiration  contains  sulphur  and  a  warm,  moist 
hand  is  sure  to  leave  its  mark. 

Cloudiness  in  silver,  with  no  change  of  color,  may  be  due  to  imperfect  rinsing  or 
to  that  film  of  dust  and  moisture  present  in  any  room  not  perfectly  ventilated  where  human 
beings  work  and  breathe.  Plenty  of  hot  soapsuds,  careful  rinsing  and  wiping,  will  remove 
this  film  without  the  need  of  much  rubbing.  To  remove  tarnish,  the  use  of  silver  polish, 
or  of  something  that  replaces  it,  is  necessary.  Silver  is  successfully  cleaned  by  boiling  it  for 
five  minutes  in  a  new  or  bright  aluminum  or  tin  dish,  in  a  solution  made  of  one  tablespoon 
of  baking  soda  and  a  tablespoon  of  salt  to  every  quart  of  water.  The  aluminum  utensil  must 
be  kept  scoured  or  it  will  not  be  effective.  Most  silver  polishes  have  whiting  for  a  founda- 
tion, made  into  a  paste  with  either  water,  soap  and  water,  alcohol,  or,  for  solid  silver,  am- 
monia. 

Pottery — Porcelain,  stoneware  and  earthenware  all  have  clay  for  a  foundation,  but 
differ  in  appearance  and  quality  according  to  the  fineness  of  the  clay  used,  the  kind  of 
glaze  applied,  and  the  length  of  time  taken  for  firing.  Good  stoneware  can  hardly  be  dis- 
tinguished at  first  glance  from  porcelain,  but  its  glaze  is  of  a  kind  that  easily  becomes 
scratched  or  covered  with  fine  cracks.  Earthenware  is  made  of  the  cheapest  grades  of  clay, 
and  its  glaze — which  is  produced  by  throwing  common  salt  into  the  furnace  during  the 
firing  of  the  ware — is  easily  chipped,  exposing  the  very  porous  ware  underneath.  For 
this  reason  white  stoneware  mixing  bowls  are  in  the  end  cheaper  than  yellow  earthenware. 

Fireproof  ware  is  made  of  clay  which  contains  little  or  no  iron,  and  which  therefore 
withstands  fire.  Utensils  of  this  kind  are  often  left  unglazed,  but  more  often  they  are  cov- 
ered with  a  glaze  that  is  fired  at  a  sufficiently  high  temperature  to  make  a  hard,  smooth, 
glassy  surface,  which  is  proof  alike  against  high  heat  and  the  effect  of  acids.  Fireproof 
earthenware  has  long  been  represented  in  our  kitchens  in  the  shape  of  the  Boston  bean  pot. 
We  now  have,  in  addition,  a  large  variety  of  "casserole"  dishes.  The  economy  of  long,  slow 
cooking,  whereby  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  are  made  digestible  and  palatable,  is  being  given 
more  and  more  consideration.  Utensils  that  are  equally  useful  for  cooking  and  serving  save 
time  and  strength  in  addition. 

If  stoneware,  earthenware  or  china  dishes  are  to  be  allowed,  after  washing,  to  dry 
without  wiping,  it  is  important  that  the  rinsing  water  be  very  hot  and  very  clean.  Imper- 
fectly rinsed  dishes,  dried  without  wiping,  become  coated  with  a  thin  film  which  in  time  spoils 
the  glaze. 


1 02        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Glass — Glass  is  made  by  melting  together  sand,  a  lead  or  lime  compound  and  a 
compound  of  soda  or  potash.  The  quality  depends  very  much  on  the  purity  of  the  raw  mate- 
rial. Glass  is  being  more  and  more  used  in  our  kitchens,  for  measuring  cups,  rolling-pins, 
storage  jars  for  cereals,  milk  bottles,  jelly  and  preserving  glasses.  The  glass  door  for  our 
ovens  and  glass  tops  for  our  percolators  not  only  save  time  and  motions,  but  also  satisfy  the 
general  desire  to  see  things  actually  happening.  Glass  of  good  quality  is  durable  if  handled 
properly.  t 

Wood — Steak  Planks — With  the  passing  of  wood  for  other  uses,  many  persons  are 
just  discovering  that  meat  cooked  on  a  well-seasoned  oak  plank  has  a  flavor  unlike  any 
other,  and  comes  near  to  filling  the  desire  for  "some  new  animal"  which  every  household 
voices  from  time  to  time.  A  home  carpenter  may  earn  much  gratitude  by  making  one 
of  these  planks.  It  should  be  oval,  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  about  eighteen  inches 
long  by  twelve  inches  wide,  with  a  depression  at  one  end  for  holding  the  juices  and  with 
grooves  leading  toward  the  depression.  As  sold  in  the  shops,  the  planks  are  furnished  with 
trays  on  which  to  bring  them  to  the  table,  but  any  oval  tray  fulfills  the  same  purpose;  in 
fact,  the  plank  may  be  made  to  fit  a  tray  already  in  use.  To  make  the  planks  non-ab- 
sorbent, after  thoroughly  cleansing  them  rub  in  all  the  oil  (suitable  for  coming  in  contact  with 
food)  that  the  wood  will  take  up. 


KITCHEN   UTENSILS— MISCELLANEOUS 


To  Clean  Granite  Ware — (Cornell  Reading 
Course) — Apparatus:  A  vessel  large  enough  to 
hold  the  utensil  being  cleaned,  and  one  that  will 
not  be  affected  by  strong  soda  solution;  washing 
soda,    bath   brick,    dishcloth   and   dish   towel. 

Place  the  utensils  to  be  cleaned  in  the  larger 
vessel.  Nearly  fill  with  cold  water.  Add  soda  in 
the  proportion  of  one-half  cup  soda  to  one  quart 
cold  water.  Let  boil  for  an  hour  until  most  of 
the  dirt  will  rinse  off  readily.  Take  the  utensils 
out  of  the  water  and  rinse  under  the  tap.  If 
necessary  scour  the  utensils  with  bath  brick  or 
Sapolio  in  order  to  remove  obstinate  spots.  Wash 
like  ordinary  dishes.  In  extreme  cases  it  may  be 
necessary  to   repeat  this  operation  several  times. 

To   Clean  Ironware — (Cornell  Reading  Course) 

Apparatus:       An     old     newspaper,     a     flannelette 

duster,  a  lump  of  beeswax  or  mutton  fat  tied  in 
a  square  of  cloth,  a  piece  of  old  cloth  for  scour- 
ing,  some  coarse  salt,  and  a  basin  of  soapy  water. 

Procedure  to  Season  New  Ironware — Heat  the 
iron  utensil  hot  enough  to  melt  the  wax  or  fat. 
Spread  the  newspaper  on  the  table;  rub  the  uten- 
sil with  the  wax  or  fat.  Wash  in  hot,  soapy  water. 
Repeat   several    times    if  necessary. 

To  Clean  Rusty  Ironware — Spread  the  news- 
paper on  the  tabel.  If  very  rusty  rub  the  ironware 
with  kerosene  and  let  stand  for  an  hour,  or  longer 
if  necessary,  before  further  treatment.  Heat  the 
utensil  enough  to  melt  the  wax  or  fat.  Rub  with 
wax  or  fat  until  well  covered  r  then  scour  off  with 
salt.  Wash  the  utensil  with  hot  soapsuds  and  dry. 
Heat  until  thoroughly  dry.  If  the  weather  is 
damp  or  the  ironware  is  being  put  away  for  some 


time,   rub  with  wax,  vaseline  or  saltless  fat  of  any 
kind,"  in  order  to  prevent  rust. 

Note — It  may  sometimes  be  necessary  to  use 
finely  pulverized  bathbrick  in  addition  to  the  salt. 
Flatirons  should  be  cleaned  as  described  for  iron- 
ware. 

To  Clean  Steel  of  rust,  rub  the  rusted  part  with 
sweet  oil  and  allow  to  stand  for  24  hours;  then 
rub  with  a  piece  of  soft  leather  and  sprinkle  with 
finely  powdered  unslaked  lime  until  the  rust  dis- 
appears. 

To  Clean  Knives  of  rust,  use  a  raw  potato 
dipped    in    cleaning   powder. 

Cake  Griddle — Keep  this  in  good  condition 
largely  by  the  vociferous  use  of  sandpaper  oc- 
casionally, using  very  little  grease  for  frying  the 
cakes. 

To  Clean  Brass  and  Copper — (Cornell  Read- 
ing Course)  — Apparatus:  Rottenstone,  sweet 
oil,  scouring  flannels,  chamois  skin,  clean  dry 
towel,  and  a  saucer;  also,  if  necessary,  a  soft 
brush. 

Wash  the  article  in  hot  soapy  water.  If  badly 
tarnished,  it  may  be  necessary  to  make  a  weak 
solution  of  oxalic  acid  and  rub  this  over  the 
article  before  washing  it.  The  acid,  however,  is 
a  dangerous  thing  to  use  if  the  skin  is  broken 
anywhere  on  the  hands.  It  should  be  kept  off 
the  hands  in  any  event. 

Mix  a  little  paste  of  rottenstone  and  oil  in  the 
saucer  and  scour  the  brass  vigorously  with  it. 
Be  especially  careful  to  get  it  into  crevices  and 
corners. 

Wash     thoroughly    with     hot     water     and     soap. 


KITCHEN  HELPS— UTENSILS  AND  MISCELLANEOUS 


103 


rinse,  and  dry.  If  the  article  seems  greasy  after 
the  washing,  the  water  was  not  sufficiently  soapy 
and   the  washing  should  be  done   over. 

Polish  with  chamois   skin. 

Wash  out  the  cloths  and  chamois  skin  and  hang 
them  up   to   dry. 

Note — If  the  article  is  very  badly  tarnished  it 
may  be  rubbed  with  fine  emery  paper,  or  finely 
pulverized  pumice  stone  may  be  used  as  a  paste 
with  the  acid   or  with  water,   rubbing  vigorously. 

Brass  Saucepan — To  clean  a  brass  saucepan  or 
preserving  can  quickly,  put  in  it  a  little  bath- 
brick  and  moisten  it  with  vinegar;  this  will  at 
once  remove  the  stain. 

Copper  Kettles,  etc.,  may  often  be  cleaned  by 
rubbing  all  over  with  a  cut  lemon  dipped  in  salt, 
then  rinsing  thoroughly  with  clear  water  and  pol- 
ishing with  a  soft  cloth  or  chamois.  Or  a  little 
powdered  bathbrick  moistened  with  vinegar;  mix 
to  a  paste  and  rub  a  little  on  the  copper;  let  it 
stand  for  a  time,  then  rub  off  and  polish  with  a 
soft  cloth;  wash  off  and  polish  finally  with 
chamois. 

To  Clean  Zinc — (Cornell  Reading  Course)  — 
Apparatus:  The  kerosene  can,  some  cotton 
waste  or  an  old  cloth,  a  bottle  of  vinegar  and 
alum    mixture    (see   below)    and    an    old    pot. 

Take  a  piece  of  cotton  waste  or  an  old  cloth, 
pour  a  little  kerosene  on  the  zinc,  and  spread  it 
all  over  with  the  waste  or  cloth.  Start  at  one 
corner  with  the  waste  or  cloth  and  rub  hard  un- 
til the  zinc  is  clean  and  bright.  Finally,  rub  off 
all  superfluous  kerosene  with  a  piece  of  fresh 
waste. 

If  the  zinc  has  been  neglected  and  is  very  dirty, 
heat  some  of  the  vinegar  and  alum  mixture  in 
the  old  pot.  Apply  it  hot,  rub  hard,  and  wipe 
off    immediately. 

Burn    the    waste. 

Vinegar  and  Alum  Mixture — 2  oz.  powdered 
alum;  1  qt.  strong  vinegar.  Boil  the  vinegar,  add 
the  alum,  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Apply  hot. 
Badly  stained  nickel  can  also  be  cleaned  by  boil- 
ing in  this  mixture  until  the  stains  begin  to  dis- 
appear, before  polishing.  Keep  in  a  tightly  corked 
bottle. 

To  Clean  Badly  Stained  Nickel — See  immedi- 
ately above :  vinegar  and  alum   mixture   for  zinc. 

Tinware — Before  using  tinware  of  any  kind,  rub 
well  over  with  fresh  lard,  to  season,  and  fortify 
against  rust  later.  To  clean  tinware,  wash  with 
hot  soda  water,  dry,  then  polish  with  dry  flour 
applied  with  soft  leather,  and  then  rub  with  leather 
only. 


Stains  on  Tinware  or  Teacups  can  be  removed 
by  dipping  a  damp  cloth  in  common  soda  and 
rubbing    briskly.       Wash    and   wipe    dry. 

Get  a  Wide-Mouthed  Funnel  and  keep  it  on 
hand,  among  your  tinware  supplies;  it  is  most 
convenient  for  pouring  from  one  bowl  to  another; 
you  will  find  use  for  it  every  day;  it  prevents 
spilling  and  slopping,  which  largely  causes  various 
stains  on  utensils  generally,  the  thin  coating  of 
the  spilled  liquid  burning  dry  immediately  on  the 
hot  utensils. 

To  Clean  Pewter — Wash  the  article  with  hot 
water  and  fine  silver  sand;  then  dry  and  polish 
with  a  leather.  Clean  discolored  pewter  with 
sweet    oil   and   whiting. 

Furred  Kettle  —  Clean  with  sal-soda  or  sal- 
ammoniac.  Fill  the  kettle  with  cold  water,  add 
a  little  sal-ammoniac,  and  boil.  The  fur  will  dis- 
solve.     Rinse  the  kettle  thoroughly  and  polish  dry. 

Burned  Pans — Saucepans  that  have  been  burned 
should  never  be  filled  with  soda  water,  as  this 
makes  them  more  liable  to  burn  again  the  next 
time  used.  Instead,  fill  with  salt  and  water,  leave 
a  few  hours,  then  bring  slowly  to  a  boil;  the 
burned  particles  will  come  off  without  difficulty. 

Stained  Cruet — Fill  cruet  with  finely  chopped 
potato  skins,  cork  tightly,  let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  for  two  or  three  days;  then  turn  skins  out 
and    rinse    cruet   with   warm   water   and    borax. 

Chopping  Bowl — Remove  the  odor  of  food 
from  a  wooden  chopping  bowl  in  boiling  water 
in  which  a  little  soda  is  dissolved.  A  tablespoon 
of  soda  to  a  gallon  of  water. 

Cracked  Dishes — If  boiled  in  enough  sweet  milk 
to  cover  them  for  about  45  minutes  the  cracks 
will  glue  together  and  become  invisible  and  the 
dishes  will  stand  almost  as  much  -ordinary  usage 
as  before. 

Wash  Linoleum  and  Oil  Cloth  with  luke  warm 
water,  then  polish  it  with  a  soft  woolen  cloth 
which  has  been  dipped  in  milk.  Wipe  oil  cloth 
with  skimmed  milk;  it  is  almost  as  beneficial  as 
a  coat  of  varnish.  Linoleum  should  have  a  coat 
of  varnish,  even  two  coats,  when  new,  before 
using,  and  an  occasional  coat  afterwards;  it  will 
almost  entirely  prevent  wear  if  applied  frequently. 

Under  the  Oil  Stove,  try  putting  oil  cloth  on 
the  shelf  below  the  burners;  it  can  be  removed  for 
washing,  and  will  prove  less  trouble  than  scouring 
the  shelf  itself  and  is  less  mussy  than  a  drip  pan 
for    this    purpose. 


1 04       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


A  Box  of  Salt,  a  large  one,  should  always  be 
near  the  kitchen  stove,  not  alone  for  its  conve- 
nience for  cooking,  but  in  case  of  fat  boiling  over 
and  catching  fire;  the  fire  may  be  instantly  put 
out  by  dashing  on  a  handful  of  salt.  It  is  almost 
the  only  good  and  instant  means  for  smothering 
any  sudden  flare-up  of  fire.  It  takes  time  to  beat 
out  a  flame  by  wetting  a  cloth  for  the  purpose, 
and  water  is  likely  to  spread  fire  around  a  stove 
where  grease  or  fat  catches  the  flame.  A  box  of 
salt  always  handy  is  almost  as  effective  as  an 
expensive   fire  extinguisher. 

Coffee-Grounds,  left  over,  slightly  moistened, 
make  fine  dust-down  for  sweeping  floors;  it  is 
clean   and   will  not  stain. 

Opening  Fruit  Jars — Instead  of  prying  open 
with  a  knife,  just  hold  the  top  (upside  down)  in 
hot  water  for  a  few  minutes — just  dip  in  the  top, 
not  the  body  of  the  jar — and  the  lid  will  come  off 
easily  without  danger  of  cutting  the  hands.  In 
prying,  the  tool  may  slip,  or  the  top  of  the  jar 
itself,    giving   one   a   bad    cut. 

To  Remove  Stopper  from  a  bottle  without  mu- 
tilating it  with  a  corkscrew,  or  to  remove  wooden 
or  glass  stoppers  which  stick,  cut  a  narrow  strip 
of  sandpaper  and,  holding  it  tightly  around  the 
stopper,  twist  the  stopper;  the  sandpaper  gives  the 
fingers  a  "purchase"  so  they  do  not  slip.  A  large 
rubber  band  wound  tightly  around  the  stopper 
will  perform  the  same  function.  A  wider  piece 
of     sandpaper     may    be     used     for    unscrewing    the 


cover  of  a  fruit  jar.  The  narrow  strip  is  used 
again  for  a  hot  water  bottle  the  top  of  which 
has  stuck. 

A  Glass  Stopper  may  often  be  removed  by  in- 
serting in  the  crack  of  a  door  at  the  hinged  side. 
Close  the  door  as  tightly  as  you  can  on  the  stop- 
per without  breaking  it  and  then  twist  the  bottle 
gently  back   and   forth. 

Or:  hold  the  bottle  firmly  by  the  same  means, 
or  have  an  assistant  hold  it.  Take  two  turns 
around  the  neck  with  a  heavy,  rough,  strong 
cord.  Holding  an  end  of  the  cord  in  each  hand, 
pull  one  end  and  then  the  other,  causing  the  cord 
to  set  up  a  high  friction  to  the  neck  of  the  bottle. 
The  heat  expands  the  glass  of  the  neck  slightly 
but  does  not  penetrate  to  the  glass  stopper  so 
rapidly.      The  stopper  is   release   for  easy   removal. 

Paraffin  the  Corks  of  bottles,  set  away  for  a 
time,  or  for  prevention  of  leakage  when  packing 
bottles  for  traveling,  either  bottles  containing 
medicine  or  any  other  liquids.  Paraffin  seals  the 
corks  or  other  tops  tightly  from  air  and  tends  to 
preserve  contents  as  well  as  prevent  leakage. 
Simply  dip  the  corked  tops  into  melted  paraffin 
and   set   away  to   cool. 

Movable  Kitchen  Table — Put  casters  on  kitchen 
table.  It  is  surprising  how  often  it  is  convenient 
to  move  a  table  around  if  it  moves  easily  and 
conveniently.  A  movable  table,  at  times,  saves 
lots   of   steps. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


MAKESHIFT  KITCHEN   APPLIANCES 

The  housewife  who  is  ingenious  enough  to  supply  a  sudden  need  for  a 
certain  article  from  something  in  no  wise  intended  for  the  purpose  has  gone  far 
towards  solving  the  question  of  efficiency. 

The  possibilities  of  cans  and  boxes  is  infinite.  Take  the  oval  cans  in  which 
soused  mackerel  comes;  these,  if  the  top  is  removed  or  melted  off  close  to  the 
side  and  edges  smoothed,  make  most  excellent  jelly  or  pudding  moulds,  and  are 
convenient  for  many  purposes. 

If  the  double  boiler  is  missing  or  has  sprung  a  leak,  a  good  substitute  will  be  found 
in  a  coffee  can  which  is  slipped  inside  the  tea  kettle.  Should  it  prove  a  bit  too  small, 
cut  down  an  inch  or  two,  leaving  an  inch  strip  .at  the  seam  and  another  opposite,  and  it 
is  handy  for  many  other  purposes  for  insertion  into  the  kettle — to  make  paste  in  or  to  melt 
glue. 

A  tin  collar  for  a  stovepipe  and  a  tin  pail  or  other  vessel  which  will  fit  snugly  inside 
it  makes  an  excellent  double  boiler  when  set  over  a  pan  or  kettle  of  boiling  water;  and  a  very 
ideal  way  to  bake  potatoes  is  found  in  the  use  of  a  wire  trivet  placed  on  top  of  the  stove 
with  a  round  cake  pan  turned  over  it;  this  does  away  with  the  necessity  of  waiting  for  the 
oven  to  heat,  for  by  the  time  it  is  hot  enough  to  bake,  the  potatoes  will  be  more  than  half 
done.  Biscuit  may  even  be  baked  in  this  way,  and  the  top  of  the  heating  stove  may  be  used 
quite  as  well  as  the  range. 

When  the  fire  is  allowed  to  die  down  between  meals,  a  wood  or  coal  fire  being 
used,  one  does  not  always  care  to  go  to  the  trouble  of  starting  one  just  for  a  light  evening 
meal,  and  if  a  gas  or  oil  stove  is  not  used  one  may  improvise  a  very  good  substitute  by 
setting  a  large  lamp  in  a  box  with  one  end  removed  and  placing  an  oven  rack  across  the 
top,  a  couple  of  inches  over  the  chimney.  On  this  improvised  stove  one  may  boil  the  tea 
kettle,  fry  potatoes,  poach  eggs,  and  do  other  little  culinary  stunts.  This  will  be  found  invalu- 
able on  moving  days  when  the  range  is  not  yet  set  up  or  the  gas  turned  on.  In  the  summer 
camp  it  is  a  find  indeed,  and  with  the  use  of  the  triple  stewpans,  which  cook  three  sepa- 
rate things  over  one  burner,   a  creditable  dinner  may  be  evolved  by  its  use. 

A  suds  dipper  which  has  begun  to  leak  needs  only  a  few  more  holes  punched  in 
the  bottom  to  make  a  superior  sink  strainer — because  of  the  convenient  handle.  The  lid 
of  a  workman's  dinner  pail  makes  an  excellent  biscuit  cutter,  being  of  about  the  right  size 
for  pocketbook  rolls,  for  which  the  ordinary  biscuit  cutter  is  too  small.  The  top  from 
a  coffee  can,  if  not  too  large,  or  some  other  similar  can,  makes  as  good  a  biscuit  cutter  as 
can  be  purchased.  The  bottom  of  a  colander  should  not  be  thrown  away,  but  saved  to 
put  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  under  the  pot  roast  to  prevent  its  sticking  and  scorching.  A 
dozen  pot  lid  knobs  that  can  be  bought  on  any  five-cent  counter  are  a  good  investment;  they 
will  not  only  replace  lost  knobs  on  pot  covers,  but  can  be  used  to  convert  the  tops  of  tin 
cans  into  covers  for  small  basins,  bowls,  pails  and  the  like.  The  cover  of  an  ordinary 
lard  pail  when  fitted  with  a  knob  and  punctured  makes  an  excellent  cutter  for  short-cake 
biscuit. 

105 


1 06        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

There  is  an  improved  lid  on  the  market  that  should  supersede  the  old  fashioned  lid 
entirely — a  lid  of  gray  enamel  with  a  handle  on  the  side  ending  in  a  hook  for  hanging 
it  up.  Half  a  dozen  assorted  sized  lids  may  be  hung  on  one  nail.  They  can  be  used 
for  other  purposes  than  as  lids — to  set  the  hot  kettle  or  pan  on  when  dishing  up  on  the 
table  or  to  lift  the  meat  from  the  kettle. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


WASHING  THE  DISHES  AND  CLEANING  UTENSILS 

Dish  Washing — (Cornell  Reading  Course) — Apparatus:  Dishpan,  rinsing  pan,  drain- 
ing pan  and  basket,  dishcloth,  several  clean,  dry  dish  towels,  boiling  water,  soap  and  washing 
soda. 

Put  iron  pots  and  pans  to  soak  in  strong  soda  water,  also  put  to  soak  any  cooking 
dishes  that  need  it.  Put  one  inside  another  so  as  to  clean  the  outside  also.  This  should 
be  done  the  moment  the  contents  are  emptied,  and  before  the  meal  goes  to  the  table. 

Clean  the  dining  table,  and  leave  the  room  in  order. 

Put  the  food  away,  scrape  and  stack  the  dishes  at  the  washing  end  of  the  table, 
putting  to  soak  any  that  need  it. 

Set  out  the  pans,  with  the  draining  basket  in  the  rinsing  pan.  Half  fill  the  dishpan 
with  hot,  soapy  water,  three-quarters  fill  the  rinsing  pan  with  nearly  boiling  water. 

Wash  the  glass,  dropping  each  piece  gently  into  the  basket.  Put  flat  silver  into  the 
dishwater  to  soak.  Lift  the  basket  of  glass  into  the  draining  pan,  dry  the  glass  and  set  it 
aside.  Use  the  softest  towels  for  this  and  see  that  the  glass  is  left  shining.  (If  you  prefer 
the  glass  dried  out  of  cold  water,   use  it,    and  then  fill  the  pan  with  boiling  water.) 

Return  the  basket  to  the  rinsing  pan.  Wash,  rinse  and  dry  the  silver  the  same  as 
the  glass.     The  towels  must  be  dry  for  the  silver. 

Wash,  rinse,  and  dry  the  small  china  pieces  the  same  as  glass,  and  put  away  the 
basket. 

Wash,  rinse,  and  leave  the  rest  of  the  china  and  crockery  to  drain,  while  the  pots 
and  pans  are  being  washed. 

Dry  the  china  and  crockery,  rinse  and  dry  the  pots  and  pans.  Scour  the  steel  knives 
and   forks. 

Put  away  all  the  dishes. 

Empty  the  dishpan,  put  rinsing  water  in  it,  wash  the  other  pans,  dry  with  the  cloth 
wrung  dry,  and  put  them  away. 

If  the  rinsing  water  is  still  clean  and  warm,  scrub  the  table  and  the  sink  with  it;  if 
not,  get  fresh  water.  Wash  the  teakettle,  inside  and  out,  once  a  day,  when  the  water  is 
soapy.  i 

Put  towels  and  dishcloth  to  soak  in  hot,  soapy  water.  This  need  be  done  but  once 
a  day,  usually  after  the  midday  meal. 

Rub   off  the  stove.      Sweep   the  kitchen  floor.     Empty  the  garbage  pail. 

Wash  the  towels  and  dishcloth.  Rinse  the  pail  out  with  the  suds,  and  dry  with  the 
cloth  wrung  dry.  Rinse  the  towels  thoroughly  in  hot  water  and  hang  to  dry,  in  fresh  air 
if  possible. 

Dust  the  kitchen  once  a  day. 

Note:  The  dishwater  should  be  kept  hot  and  soapy  enough  to  prevent  the  forma- 
tion of  a  grease-ring  on  the  pan,  and  should  be  changed  when  dirty.  Keep  the  rinsing 
water   very  hot,    thus   requiring    fewer    towels. 

107 


COOKING   HINTS 

In  cookery,  as  in  dress,  a  woman  should  remember  that  if  she  cannot  afford 
to  employ  an  artist  she  should  not  attempt  things  which  are  beyond  the  powers  of 
any  but  an  expert.  She  who  tries  to  hide  the  evil  cut  of  her  dress  with  yards  of 
trimmings  is  on  a  par  in  lack  of  taste  with  the  cook  who  makes  wonderful  con- 
coctions of  pounded  chicken  elaborately  encased  in  aspic  and  trimmed  with  stars 
and  stripes  and  other  shapes  of  tongue,  white  of  egg  and  truffles,  and  which 
tastes  of  nothing  but  white  of  egg  and  truffles. 

It  must  not  be  thought,  however,  that  the  appearance  of  food  may  be 
slighted.  It  is  of  great  importance — almost  as  great  as  the  cooking  and  flavoring. 
No  matter  how  inexpensive  the  food,  it  should  be  nicely  served,  and  no  sloven- 
liness should  be  allowed  even  in  the  most  simple  of  family  meals.  On  the  other 
hand,  the  garnishing  of  the  most  elaborate  dish  should  never  be  permitted  to  mar 
its  taste  or  temperature.  To  that  end,  hot  dishes  must  be  generally  less  elaborate 
than  cold. 


To    Whip    Thin    Cream Thin    cream,    too    thin 

to  whip  properly,  will  whip  better  if  the  white  of 
one  egg  is  added,  or  two  whites  if  there  is  a 
large  amount  of  the  cream.  The  egg  improves 
both   the    quality  and   the   quantity. 

Whites  of  Eggs — A  teaspoonful  of  cold  water 
added  to  whites  of  eggs  will  cause  them  to  whip 
easily    and    quickly. 

Pickles  may  be  kept  from  becoming  mouldy  by 
laying  a  little  bag  of  mustard  on  the  top  of  the 
pickle    jar. 

Hashes  and  Minces  are  much  improved  if  the 
meat  is  soaked  in  the  gravy  or'  sauce  some  time 
before    being   reheated. 

Salt    That    Lumps Add    a    little    cornstarch    to 

the  salt  before  filling. 

Spread  Papers  over  your  kitchen  table  before 
starting  to  clean  poultry,  or  to  make  bread  or 
pies;  they  catch  waste  and  save  much  cleaning  up 
later. 

No  Tears  with  Onions — Scalding  water  poured 
over   onions   saves   "weeps." 

Preserved  Provisions,  when  opened,  and  only  a 
part  of  the  contents  removed,  should  be  emptied 
of  all  at  once,  and  the  unused  portions  put  in 
earthen  or  glass  vessels.  The  air  acting  upon  the 
tin  and  the  solder  causes  the  acid  contents  to 
dissolve  parts  of  the  minerals. 

Lemon  Rinds — Save  them,  dry  them  in  the 
oven  and  store  them  in  an  air  tight  vessel.  A 
little  added  to  apple  sauce  gives  it  a  delicious 
flavor,    and    it   has   other   uses   for   seasoning. 


Use  a  Soft  Brush  for  brushing  bread  rolls  and 
pastry  with  melted  butter — such  a  brush  as  is 
used  ^  for    varnishing. 

Before  Grating  Lemons  wash  them  in  a  basin 
of  lukewarm  water;  the  outside  of  the  lemon  is 
often  not  very  clean;  examine  a  lemon  under  a 
microscope  and  you  will  find  tiny  black  spots 
which  are   the   minute  eggs   of  an  insect. 

Sugar  Syrup — A  small  quantity  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar in  it  will  prevent  the  syrup  becoming  granu- 
lated. 

Currant  Jelly  should  be  used  for  game  and 
custards   and    bread    puddings. 

Keep  on  Hand  always  a  quantity  of  grated 
bread  crumbs,  grated  cheese,  good  vinegar,  herbs 
and  spices,  as  these  are  indispensable  and  you 
often    want    them    without    warning. 

Mint,  either  with  or  without  parsley,  is  served 
with  roast  lamb,  both  hot  and  cold.  Dry  mint, 
and   put  it  away  for  future  use. 

Save  the  Sprigs  of  celery  tops  and  use  them 
for  salads  and  cold  meats,  or  dry  them  and  put 
away  for  the   future. 

Cooking  Raisins — To  keep  moist,  keep  in  a 
glass    fruit   jar. 

Cheese To    prevent    becoming    dry    or    mouldy, 

wrap    in    a    cloth    which    has    been    moistened    in 
vinegar. 

Wire  Spoon — Use  for  removing  doughnuts 
from  hot  fat.  Other  uses  suggest  themselves  if 
you    have   it. 


108 


KITCHEN  HELPS— COOKING  HINTS 


109 


Lemons  can  be  kept  soft  much  longer  if  put 
in  a  jar  filled  with  water,  the  water  being  renewed 
every   second   day. 

Tomatoes  and  Milk  to  be  blended  must  be 
brought  to  the  same  temperature  and  beaten  to- 
gether vigorously;  there  is  less  liability  of  curd- 
ling. 

A  Saucepan  in  which  rice,  oatmeal  or  any- 
thing sticky  has  been  cooked  may  be  very  easily 
cleaned  by  putting  in  a  cupful  of  ashes  and  fill 
with  water  when  you  take  it  off  the  fire. 

Sugar  Used  in  Pie — Put  the  sugar  always  in  the 
centre  of  the  fruit,  not  at  the  top,  as  this  makes 
the   paste    sodden. 

Overheated  Oven — Put  a  bowl  of  cool  water  in- 
side  to    cool   it. 

Burnt  Milk — Take  the  pan  off  the  fire  and 
stand  it  at  once  in  a  basin  of  cold  water.  Put  a 
pinch  of  salt  in  the  pan,  give  the  milk  a  stir,  and 
you  will  find  that  the  burnt  taste  has  almost  if 
not    quite    disappeared. 

After      Eating      Onions Coffee      beans,      cloves, 

sugar  or  parsley  moistened  ■with  sugar  will  prevent 
the  onions  from  being  noticeable   on  the  breath. 

Substitute  for  Maple  Sugar — Equal  parts  of 
granulated  white  and  dark  brown  sugar,  with  one- 
half  the  quantity  of  water  added,  and  boiled  until 
of  desired  thickness.  When  cold,  add  three  drops 
of  vanilla  extract.  Much  of  the  cheap  "maple- 
ized"  sugar  you  buy  is  only  the  above  with  per- 
haps a  few  drops  of  maple  syrup  to  further  flavor. 


Wooden  Spoon  should  be  used  for  stirring  in 
preference  to  an  iron  one;  the  latter  will  often 
scratch  tin  or  cause  discoloration  in  the  food; 
the  acid  in  the  food  working  on  the  metal  will 
do    the    latter. 

Odors — When  cooking  anything  which  has  a 
strong  odor  put  a  small  pan  of  vinegar  in  the 
stove  and  there  will  be  no  scent  of  cooking  in 
the   air. 

Soggy  Bread  or  Pastry — When  serving  hot  bread 
or  pastry,  use  hot  plates;  the  most  delicious  be- 
come   soggy    when    served    on    cold   plates. 

Cream  Pitcher — Cream  may  be  prevented  from 
dripping  from  the  spout  by  rubbing  the  inside  of 
the    spout   with   a    little    butter. 

Soak  Nuts  in  hot  water  for  an  hour  or  two 
and  they  will  crack  easier  and  the  meats  come 
out   whole   with  less    trouble    to   pick. 

To  Open  Cocoanut — Place  it  first  in  the  oven 
for  a  few  minutes;  the  warmth  makes  opening 
easier. 

Cracker  Dust — Always  keep  a  jar  of  cracker 
dust  on  hand  for  breading  unless  you  have  no 
bread   crumbs   for   the   purpose. 

Dates  or  Figs — When  running  these  through  the 
mincing  machine  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice 
to   prevent   the   fruit   from   clogging. 

Cutting  Hot  or  Brown  Bread — Use  a  silk  or  linen 
thread  or  fine  wire  instead  of  a  knife  and  the 
bread  will  crumble  less. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 
Scraps  or  Memos, 
of  Your  Own) 


LEFT-OVER   FOODS 

(Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture) 

"WASTE   NOT,    WANT   NOT" 

The  American  housekeeper  has  had  an  unenviable  reputation  as  a  careless  buyer,  a 
thoughtless  manager  and  a  reckless  waster  of  foods.  In  no  other  way  has  this  been  more 
apparent  than  in  the  custom  in  many  homes  to  throw  away  bits  of  leftover  food  materials 
which  might  be  put  to  good  use.  Much  more  credit  is  due  to  the  woman  who,  as  far  as 
possible  prevents  the  accumulation  of  leftovers,  but  who  uses  them  wisely  as  they  are  found, 
than  to  the  woman  who  cooks  fresh  food  attractively  and  well,  but  who  throws  away  foods 
which  still  contain   food  value  and   which  might  form  the  basis  of  palatable  dishes. 


LEFTOVERS   AND  SOME  USES 

Bread — 

White,    graham,    whole   wheat,    corn,    rye. 

Toast. 

Biscuit. 

Pancake   or  waffle  batter. 
Meat    and    Eggs — 

Beef,    pork,    ham,    bacon,    chicken,    fish;    eggs 

boiled,    fried   or  scrambled. 

Gravy. 
Vegetables 

String    beans,    onions,    potatoes,    beans,    peas, 

corn. 
Cereals —  ■* 

Rice,    macaroni,    oatmeal,    cornmeal,    cream   of 

wheat,    hominy. 
Fruit  Sauces — 

Apple,    prune,    rhubarb,    cranberry,    etc. 
Fats — 

Suet,     bacon    fat,     meat    fryings,     chicken    fat, 

butter. 

Prevent   Leftovers    (When   Possible) 

1.  By  Careful  Planning — Do  not  serve  too 
many  kinds  of  food  at  each  meal.  Provide  variety 
between  meals.  Do  not  cook  too  great  an  amount 
of  each   food. 

2.  By  Careful  Serving — Do  not  serve  too  gen- 
erously. It  is  better  to  have  a  second  helping  in 
reserve,   so   that  if  not  eaten   it   may  be  used  later. 

Use    Leftovers    (When   at   Hand) 

1.    Practice     Economy True    not    False Other 

things  than  money  should  be  considered  in  prac- 
ticing economy.  The  fuel  to  be  used;  the  time 
to  be  spent;  the  food  value  to  be  saved  and  the 
additions  that  must  be  made  should  all  be  taken 
into  account.  Use  good  judgment  in  the  selec- 
tion  of  leftovers  to  be  used. 


2.  Consider  Appearance — More  skill  is  needed 
to  make  leftover  dishes  attractive  than  the  fresh 
foods.  The  wise  housekeeper  will  remember  this 
and  make  her  leftover  dishes  as  attractive  in  ap- 
pearance   as   she    can. 

3.  Prevent  Monotony — Practice  making  many 
different  leftover  dishes.  The  family  will  soon 
tire  of  the  same  food  cooked  in  the  same  way 
many  times. 


4.  Provide  Flavor — Remember  that  many  left- 
over foods,  particularly  meats,  have  lost  their 
original  flavor  and  must  be  made  tempting  if  they 
are  to  prove  popular  with  the  family  in  the  made- 
over  dish.  This  does  not  mean  that  extravagant 
flavorings  must  be  used,  however.  Select  the 
highly  flavored  vegetables,  as  well  as  the  standard 
seasonings. 


Uses  for  Leftover  Meat  and  Eggs 

Meat   pie  Chop   suey 

Scalloped    dishes  Jellied    meat 

Salads  Croquettes 

Hash  Meat   loaves 

Timbales  Eggs   as    garnish 

Souffles 

Eggs   in   salad   dressing 

Sandwich  filling 

Creamed    meat   or   eggs   on   toast 

Omelets   with    ground    meat   or   eggs 

Custards  with   ground   meat   or  eggs 

Peppers,    stuffed 

Tomatoes,   stuffed 


Combined     with 

beans 
Meat  patties 
Stuffed  biscuits 
Meat  pancakes 
Acidulated   beef   on   toast 
Stuffed    potatoes 
Meat  bones   for  soup   stock 


rice,     macaroni,     potatoes,     peas. 


110 


KITCHEN  HELPS— LEFT-OVER  FOODS 


11 


Uses  for  Leftover  Vegetables 


Mashed   Potatoes- 
Soup 

Potato   Puff 
Souffle 
Stuffing 
Croquettes 
Cakes 
Doughnuts 
Loaf 
Custards 
Scalloped 


Boiled  Potatoes — 
Au   gratin 
Creamed 
Salad 
Hash 

Chop   suey 
Garnish  with  meat 
Vegetable  chowder 
Meat  pies 


Baked   Potatoes — 
Stuffed 

Baked   potatoes   au   gratin 
Pulp   used   as   mashed  potatoes 

Other  Vegetables — 
Meat  Pies 
Salads 
Chop  suey 
Soups 
Souffles 
Patties 
Custards 
Pickles 

Vegetable  relish 
Meat   stews 
Vegetable    stock   for 
Garnish  for  roast 
Stuffing 

Vegetable    chowder 
Vegetable  loaf 

Uses   for  Leftover   Cereals 

Meat   loaf  Muffins 

Souffle  Pancakes 

Timbales  Soup 

Croquettes  Cereal   jelly 

Hash  Peppers,    stuffed 

Puddings 

Fried    cornmeal    mush 

Fried    oatmeal    mush 

Fried   cream   of  wheat   mush 


Creamed   vegetables 
Jellied  vegetables 
Croquettes 
Scalloped   vegetables 
Sandwiches 
Stuffed  peppers 
Vegetables  on  toast 


soups   and   sauces 


Cake 
Pastry 
Soap 
Sauces- 
Gravy 


Uses   for   Leftover  Fats 

Soups 
Bread 

-white;    tomato   and   other   vegetable 


Uses  for  Leftover  Fruit  Sauces 

Cake  Sauces   for  dry   cake 

Pudding  Fruit  whips 

Pie  Pudding   sauces 

Gelatin  dessert 

Uses  for  Leftover  Bread 


Bread  puddings 
Other  puddings 
Stuffing 

Buttered    crumbs 
Croquettes 
Scalloped   dishes 


Bread   sticks 
Croutons 
Patty   shells 
Cake 
Bread 
French  toast 


Toast  ■with   meat  or  vegetables-  in   gravy 
Griddle  cakes 

Dumplings    made    of    leftover    biscuits    and    served 
with   gravy 


RECIPES. 

Leftover   Bread 

Rhubarb  and  Bread  Pudding — 4  slices  dry  bread 
(buttered),  2  cups  rhubarb  (uncooked),  %  cup 
sugar,    Y$    teasp.    nutmeg. 

Place  a  layer  of  rhubarb  (cut  in  inch  pieces) 
in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Then  place  a  slice  of 
bread,  more  rhubarb  and  more  bread  until  dish 
is  filled,  having  last  layer  of  rhubarb,  sugar  and 
nutmeg.      Bake   until   rhubarb   is  soft. 

Leftover  Meat 

Stuffed  Biscuit — Leftover  cooked  meat,  biscuit 
dough,  2  cups  flour,  4  teasp.  baking  powder,  1 
teasp.   salt,    3   teasp.   fat,    24    CUP  milk  or  water. 

Combine  biscuit  dough  and  roll  on  board  Yl 
inch  thick.  Cut  as  for  biscuit,  spread  half  of 
each  biscuit  with  melted  fat,  place  a  small  amount 
of  meat  (ground  and  mixed  "with  gravy  and  sea- 
soning) on  the  biscuit  and  fold  over  as  for  Parker 
House    rolls.      Bake   and   serve   with   gravy. 

Leftover  Vegetables 

Vegetable  Soup — '/4  lb.  ground  raw  beef,  2  cups 
cold  water,  2  cups  vegetable  stock,  Yl  CUP  r'ce 
(uncooked),  Yl  cup  each  ground  cooked  carrots 
and  cooked  string  beans  cut  in  inch  pieces,  salt 
and   pepper. 

Soak  beef  Yl  hour  in  cold  water.  Add  vege- 
table water  and  rice.  Boil  until  rice  is  done. 
Add  carrots,  string  beans,  salt  and  pepper.  Heat 
and   serve. 

NOTE — Raw  vegetables  may  be  used  by  add- 
ing to  the  soup  with  the  rice.  Any  leftover 
vegetables  may  be  used  to  take  the  place  of  car- 
rots   and    string    beans. 

Leftover  Cereals 

Cereal  Omelet — 1  cup  cold  cooked  cereal,  2 
eggs,    Yl   teasp.  salt,    1    tbsp.  parsley,    I    tbsp.   fat. 

Beat  eggs  ■well,  add  cereal,  salt  and  parsley. 
Melt  fat  in  omelet  pan  and  turn  in  the  mixture. 
Cook  with  moderate  heat  until  firm.  Fold,  turn 
on   hot  platter   and   serve. 

Leftover   Fruit   Juice 

Rhubarb  Pudding  Sauce — Yl  CUP  sugar,  2  tbsp. 
flour,  1  cup  rhubarb  juice,  2  tbsp.  butter,  J/g  teasp. 
nutmeg. 

Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add  fruit  juice  and  cook 
until    thickened.       Add    butter   and    nutmeg. 

NOTE This    sauce    is    good    served    over    stale 

cake. 


1 1 2        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Leftover    Fat  Beat    egg    in    a    measuring    cup    and    add    enough 

Cinnamon    Bread — I     egg,    milk,    2    cups    flour,  milk    to    fill    the    cup.       Sift    baking    powder    and 

2    teasp.    baking    powder,     Yl    teasp.    salt,    2    teasp.  cinnamon    with    flour    and    add    to    egg    and    milk, 

ground  cinnamon,    i/4   cup  sugar,  2  tbsp.  bacon  fat.  Add    sugar    and    melted    fat   and    bake. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


PLAIN   PATTERNS   IN   COOKERY 

(Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture) 

Many  housewives,  especially  those  who  have  had  little  experience  in  cook- 
ing, are  dependent  upon  the  cook  book  to  such  a  degree  that  they  are  unable  to 
prepare  a  dish  without  it.  It  is  unfortunate  that  this  is  true,  for  often  much  time 
and  effort  are  spent  searching  for  certain  recipes  which  are  not  at  all  difficult  if 
the  fundamental  principles  are  understood.  There  are  certain  underlying  prin- 
ciples which  govern  all  recipes.  These  principles  may  be  worked  out  in  a  system 
of  plain  patterns  which  may  form  the  basis  of  much  of  the  cooking. 


PLAIN  PATTERNS 

1.  CUSTARDS 

2.  SAUCES 

3.  TIMBALES 

4.  SOUFFLES 

5.  SOFT  DOUGHS 

CUSTARDS 

Custard   Pattern — 2    cups   scalded    milk,    2    or   3 
eggs    (according  to  size),    J/g    teasp.   salt. 
Beat  eggs  slightly,   add  salt  and  hot  milk. 

Soft    Custard Custard    pattern,     J4    CUP    »ugar, 

Yl    teasp.    vanilla. 

Add  sugar  to  custard  pattern  and  cook  in  a 
double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture 
coats   the   spoon.      Add   vanilla.      Cool    quickly. 

Baked  Custard — Custard  pattern,  Ya  cup  sugar, 
a   little    grated   nutmeg. 

Add  sugar  to  custard  pattern  and  sprinkle  nut- 
meg over  the  top.  Bake  in  a  dish  set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water  until  firm.      Cool  quickly. 

Cheese  Custard — Custard  pattern,  Yl  CUP  grated 
cheese,    Yl    teasp.   salt. 

Add  cheese  and  salt  to  custard  pattern.  Bake 
as   for  baked    custard. 

Meat  Custard — Custard  pattern,  I  cup  cooked 
ground  meat,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  1  tbsp.  chopped 
parsley. 

Add  meat,  salt  and  parsley  to  custard  pattern 
and   bake    as    for   baked    custard. 

Rice    Custard     (With    Meat) — Custard    pattern, 

1  cup    cooked    rice,    Yl    cup    cooked    ground    meat, 

2  tbsp.    grated   cheese,    Yl    teasp.    salt. 

Add  rice,  meat,  cheese  and  salt  to  custard  pat- 
tern.     Bake   as   for   baked    custard. 

Rice  Custard  (Sweetened) — Custard  pattern,  Ya 
cup  sugar,    1    cup   cooked   rice,    J/2    teasp.  vanilla. 

Add  sugar,  vanilla  and  rice  to  custard  pattern. 
Bake   as    for   baked    custard.      Cool   quickly. 


Bread  and  Cheese  Sandwich — Custard  pattern, 
Ya  teasp.  salt,  4  slices  buttered  bread,  Yl  cup 
grated    cheese. 

Add  salt  to  custard  pattern.  Place  bread  in 
layers,  each  sprinkled  with  cheese.  Pour  custard 
over  bread  and  bake  as  for  baked  custard. 

Bread  and  Fruit  Sandwich — Custard  pattern,  '/4 
cup  sugar,  4  slices  buttered  bread,  J/J  cup  chopped 
raisins,   dates   or  figs. 

Add  sugar  to  custard  pattern.  Arrange  bread 
and  fruit  in  layers  and  pour  custard  over.  Bake 
as   for   baked   custard. 


SAUCES 

Sauce  Pattern — I  tbsp.  fat,  2  tbsp.  flour,  Yl 
teasp.   salt,    Ye,    teasp.   pepper,    1    cup  liquid. 

Melt  fat,  add  flour  and  cook  thoroughly.  Add 
liquid  and  cook  until  smooth,  thickened  and  glossy. 

Medium  White  Sauce — Sauce  pattern,  I  tbsp. 
fat,    I    tbsp.    flour. 

Add   fat   and   flour   to   sauce   pattern. 

Vegetable    Sauce Sauce    pattern,      I     tbsp.     fat, 

1    tbsp.   flour. 

Add  fat  and  flour  to  sauce  pattern.  Use  I  cup 
vegetable   stock   for   liquid. 

Meat  Sauce Sauce  pattern,    I    tbsp.   fat,    1    tbsp. 

flour. 

Add  fat  and  flour  to  sauce  pattern.  Use  1  cup 
meat  stock  for  liquid. 

Tomato    Sauce Sauce    pattern,     1     tbsp.    fat,     1 

tbsp.    flour,    2    cloves,    1    slice    onion,    Ya    Day  leaf. 

Add  fat  and  flour  to  sauce  pattern.  Use  I  cup 
tomato  (heated  with  onions,  cloves  and  bay  leaf 
and    strained)    for   liquid. 

Gravy Sauce    pattern,     I    tbsp.    flour,    Yl    teasp. 

salt. 

Use  fat  from  meat  in  making  sauce  pattern  and 
add  flour  and  salt.  Water,  milk  or  meat  juice  may 
be   used   as   liquid. 


113 


1  1 4        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Pudding  Sauce — Sauce  pattern  (salt  and  pep- 
per), I  tbsp.  flour,  '/i  cup  sugar,  I  tbsp.  vinegar 
or    lemon    juice. 

Combine  as  in  sauce  pattern,  using  flour  and 
sugar.  Cook  until  thickened  and  smooth.  Add 
vinegar. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup — Part  I — Sauce  pat- 
tern,   I    tbsp.   fat,    1    tbsp.   flour. 

Add  fat  and  flour  to  sauce  pattern  made  with 
milk. 

Part     II 1      cup     strained     tomatoes,      I      teasp. 

sugar,  1  slice  onion,  2  cloves,  I  bay  leaf,  Y&  teasp. 
soda. 

Heat  Part  II  (except  soda).  Add  soda  and 
strain  into  sauce.  Beat  thoroughly  and  strain  at 
once. 

Vegetable  Soup — Sauce  pattern,  Yl  CUP  vege- 
table   pulp,     I    cup    liquid,    salt    and    pepper. 

Make  sauce  pattern  with  milk,  add  vegetable 
pulp  and  salt.      Heat. 

NOTE — Potatoes,  peas,  onions,  celery  and  other 
vegetables  may  be  used.  Leftover  vegetables  are 
conveniently  used  in  this  way,  even  though  only 
a   small   amount   may   be   at  hand. 

TIMBALES 

Timbale  Pattern — 2  eggs,  2  tbsp.  fat,  I  teasp. 
salt,    J/g    teasp.    pepper,    Yl    cup   liquid. 

Beat  eggs,  add  seasonings,  melted  fat  and 
liquid.  Combine  with  other  ingredients,  turn  into 
buttered  cups,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake 
until  firm. 

Spinach     Timbales Timbale     pattern,     Yl     CUP 

spinach   pulp. 

Use   timbale   pattern   with  spinach  pulp. 

Pea    Timbales Timbale    pattern,     I     pt.     cooked 

peas. 

Heat,  drain  and  mash  peas  and  combine  with 
timbale    pattern. 

Carrot  Timbales — Timbale  pattern,  1  Yl  grated 
carrot,    I  /3  cup  bread  crumbs. 

Steam  carrots  until  tender.  Combine  with  tim- 
bale  pattern. 

NOTE Any  vegetable  pulp  may  be  used.      This 

is  a  convenient  way  of  using  a  small  amount  of 
leftover  vegetables.  Meat  and  fish  may  be  com- 
bined   with    vegetables    in    timbales. 

SOUFFLES 
Souffle  Pattern — 3    eggs,    Yl    CUP   medium  white 
sauce,    1/3    cup   cooked   cereal    (or  bread   crumbs), 
I     teasp.    salt,    J/g    teasp.    pepper. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  col- 
ored. Add  white  sauce,  cereal,  salt,  pepper,  and 
other  ingredients.  Beat  egg  whites  stiff  and  com- 
bine with  first  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until    firm. 


Onion   Souffle Souffle   pattern,    I  '/4    cups   onion 

pulp,   2  tbsp.   chopped  parsley. 

Follow    directions    for    souffle    pattern. 

Meat  and  Vegetable  Souffle — Souffle  pattern,  I 
cup  cooked  chopped  meat,  Yl  CUP  cooked  vege- 
tables,   parsley. 

Follow    directions    for    souffle    pattern. 

SOFT  DOUGHS 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  Pattern — 2  cups  flour,  4 
teasp.  baking  powder,  I  teasp.  salt,  3  tbsp.  fat, 
Ya    cups    milk    or   water. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  shorten- 
ing and  add  liquid  to   make  a   soft  dough. 

Meat  Rolls — Baking  powder  biscuit  pattern,  1 
cup  cooked  chopped  meat,  moistened  with  meat 
stock. 

Roll  biscuit  dough  on  board  Yl  inch  thick  and 
cut  as  for  biscuits.  Butter  one-half  of  each  side 
and  spread  with  meat  mixture.  Fold  over  and 
press   edges   together.      Bake   in  hot  oven. 

Cheese  Biscuit — Baking  powder  biscuit  pattern, 
Yl    cup    grated    cheese. 

Add  cheese  to  biscuit  pattern  with  shortening. 
Roll-dough  on  board  (}/l  inch  thick)  and  cut  with 
biscuit   cutter.      Bake   in   hot   oven. 

Surprise  Biscuit — Baking  powder  biscuit  pattern, 
dates,    figs,    prunes   or   raisins. 

Roll  on  board  and  shape  as  biscuit.  Fold  each 
biscuit  over  I  tbsp.  chopped  fruit  and  press  flat 
between    palms.      Bake    in    hot    oven. 

Fruit  Pudding — Baking  powder  biscuit  pattern, 
I    pt.    can   cherries    (or  other  fruits). 

Drain  cherries  from  juice.  Add  to  biscuit  pat- 
tern before  adding  liquid.  Use  enough  water  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Place  in  a  buttered  steamer 
and  steam  from  I  to  2)4  hours  (according  to  the 
size  of  the  dish  used).  Serve  with  a  sauce  made 
from  the   cherry  juice. 

Fruit  Puffs — Baking  powder  biscuit  pattern,  4 
tbsp.  finely  cut  dates  or  figs,  4  tbsp.  chopped  nuts, 
4   tbsp.   sugar,    Yl   teasp.   cinnamon,   2   tbsp.   butter. 

Pat  dough  out  into  a  sheet  {Yl  inch  thick)  on 
board.  Spread  with  butter  (melted)  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  nuts,  cinnamon  and  fruit.  Roll  as  for 
cinnamon  roll  and  cut  into  eight  pieces.  Flatten 
on  greased  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  (These 
puffs  may  be  served  as  a  pudding  with  a  lemon 
sauce.) 

Peanut  Butter  Biscuit — Baking  powder  biscuit 
pattern,   4    tbsp.   peanut  butter,   peanuts. 

Mix  peanut  butter  with  2  tbsp.  of  the  milk  in 
combining  with  the  biscuit  pattern,  then  mix  with 
the  other  ingredients  as  in  pattern  recipe.  Place 
a   half  peanut  on   each  biscuit  and   bake. 


COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


CLASSIFICATIONS 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMmiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!- 


S 


oups 


nilllllllllllllMliililillllliiiTMiliiiiilllllllliliiiiilililiHilliiiiiillllllllUlliliilliiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiriillllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiilllllllllr; 

CLASS  1 

Soup  should  be  a  frequent  indulgence  in  every  dietary.  Cream  soups  and 
purees  are  most  appetizing  and  nutritious.  Clear  soups  are  excellent  stimulants 
to  appetite  and  are  hardly  equalled  in  food  value.  All  soups  well  made  are  easy 
of  full  assimilation. 

Soups  are  made  with  and  without  meat  stocks. 

MEAT    STOCK    SOUPS    ARE: 
Bouillon — from  lean  beef,   clear  and  seasoned.      Clam  bouillon  is  an  exception. 
Consomme — from  two  or  more  kinds   of  meat,  seasoned  with  vegetables  and  other- 
wise; usually  clear. 

Brown  Soup — from  lean   beef  browned   and  seasoned. 

NON-MEAT    STOCK    SOUPS    ARE: 
Puree — with  the  pulp   of  cooked  vegetables  added  to  milk  or  cream.     Milk  is  thick- 
ened  with    cornstarch    or    flour;    stock    sometimes  added. 

Cream  Soup — made  thinner  than  puree — of  vegetables  or  fish,  with  milk,  or  some 
cream,  or  both,  and  seasoned ;  thickened  to  taste. 


The  Economical  Stock-pot — It  may  seem  easy  to  put  a  bone  into  some  water  and  let 
it  boil  hard  for  several  hours.  But  the  result  is  not  apt  to  be  the  most  flavorful  and 
nutritious  soup.  In  making  all  of  the  stock  soups,  the  meat,  bones,  etc.,  should  be  put  into 
cold  water  to  which  salt  has  been  added,  and  allowed  to  come  to  a  boil  very  slowly,  so  as 
to  extract  the  juices  before  the  tissues  become  toughened.  At  no  time  is  it  necessary  to 
boil  furiously.      Indeed,  the  word  "simmer"  is  peculiarly  expressive  for  soups. 

Meat  Soups  are  made  from  scraps,  left-overs,  bones,  trimmings,  from  steak  or  roasts, 
or  from  cheap  cuts  bought  for  the  purpose,  such  as  shins,  neck  or  shoulder  cuts,  or  lower 
round  cuts.     The  tougher  parts  are  richer  in   the  extracts  and  in  soluble  albumen. 

Use  a  porcelain  or  granite  kettle,  cover  tight-fitting,  and  strainer,  colendar  fine  sieve 
and   strainer.      A   good    fireless   cooker  is  most  excellent. 

To  Make  Plain  Soup  Stock — Clean  the  meat,  wiping  with  dry  or  damp  cloth,  sepa- 
rate the  bone  and  fat.  Cut  meat  into  small  pieces,  place  in  kettle  with  one  teaspoonful  salt 
to  quart  of  water.  Cook  at  low  temperature  six  or  seven  hours.  Add  other  seasoning  last 
half-hour. 

Do  not  remove  scum  until  just  before  serving,  as  the  scum  contains  nutritive  ele- 
ments; some  prefer  the  scum  not  removed. 

A  layer  of  fat  forms:  do  not  remove  this  until  stock  is  used,  as  it  protects  by 
excluding  the  air.      Save  the  fat,   when  removed,   for  drippings. 

117 


1  1 8       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Clear  the  soup  with  white  and  shell  of  one  egg  to  each  quart  stock.  Break  and 
beat  together,  add  to  the  stock,  set  on  fire,  stir  to  boiling  point,  boil  two  or  three  minutes, 
skim,  strain  and  serve.  Add  more  seasoning,  if  desired,  before  clearing.  Strain  through 
filter  paper  for  perfect  clearness. 

Thicken  soup  with  wheat  or  rice  or  leftover  cereal,  flour  or  cornstarch,  mixed  with 
cold  water  or  milk  to  smooth  paste,  more  liquid  then  added  until  thin:  cook  15  minutes 
after  thickening. 

If  butter  is  added,  melt  until  bubbling,  then  stir  in  a  little  flour;  add  gradually  a  cup 
of  hot  soup,  cook,  thicken,  stir  it  into  the  soup ;  cook  the  soup  then  1 5  minutes.  Bread, 
dried  and  browned,  and  added  to  a  cup  of  stock,  may  be  used  instead  of  flour;  simmer  until 
soft,  crush  and  dilute  with  soup  y2  cup  dried  bread  to  1  quart  finished  soup.  Use  wheat  or  rye 
bread  as  preferred. 

Glace  is  clear  stock  boiled  down  to  about  a  fourth  of  original  amount;  to  almost  a 
glue  state;  will  keep  for  weeks,  in  a  close  jar  in  cool  place.  Use  for  enriching  a  weak  stock, 
for  gravy,  for  browning  meats,  or  to  add  to  sauce. 

Vegetable  Stock — the  water  in  which  vegetables  have  been  cooked.  It  is  rich  in  salts 
and  flavors.     Water  from  cooked  macaroni,  barley  and  rice  should  be  retained  for  soups. 

Seasoning  for  Soups — Keep  on  hand:  dried  celery  or  celery  roots;  sweet  herbs, 
thyme,  parsley,  savory,  celery  salt  or  celery  seed,  marjoram;  spices,  cloves,  stick  cinnamon, 
allspice,  whole  pepper.  Arrowroot,  sago,  tapioca,  barley,  rice,  bread,  eggs,  cornstarch,  flour 
are  added  to  give  flavor  as  well  as  for  nourishment  and  thickening. 

The  Basis  for  Cream  Soups — The  cream  soups  may  seem  at  first  more  difficult,  but 
a  little  practice  will  show  that  a  cream  soup  is  one  of  the  easiest  to  prepare.  The  basis  is  a 
thin,  white  sauce  in  about  the  following  proportions:  1  tbsp.  of  butter,  1  tbsp.  of  flour,  1  cup- 
ful of  milk  or  cream  and  '/4  teasp.  each  of  salt  and  white  pepper. 

To  this  can  be  added  from  Yl  to  1  cupful  of  pulp  of  any  kind  of  vegetables  or  fish, 
or  water  in  which  vegetables  have  been  cooked,  with  1  tbsp.  flour  for  each  cup  of  liquid 
added.  In  most  cases  it  is  necessary  to  cook  the  vegetables  separately  with  water,  as  car- 
rots, dried  peas,  lentils,  corn,  etc.  The  mixture  is  poured  through  a  strainer  by  using  a 
wooden  pestle  or  masher. 

The  resulting  pulp  is  added  to  the  above  cream  mixture. 

As  a  general  rule,  the  food  should  not  cook  after  the  puree  has  been  added,  only 
heated  through  and  served  at  once.  Puree  should  be  neither  thick  and  cloying,  nor  dis- 
agreeably thin,  because  the  puree  and  the  milk  have  not  been  sufficiently  blended.  The  ideal 
puree  is  of  the  consistency  of  a  thick  cream  very  well  blended. 

Save  the  stale  pieces  of  bread  frequently  thrown  out.  Cut  into  slices  or  julienne 
strips,  brush  with  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven,  or  saute  in  a  skillet,  then  serve  floating  in 
the  soup.     Whipped  cream  also  brings  up  the  fat  and  makes  a  pleasing  garnish. 

Pimento  gives  a  piquant  touch  to  a  plain  cream  puree.  A  delicious  cream  soup  is 
made  of  corn  and  served  with  buttered  pop- corn  kernels  floating  on  top. 

Grated  egg  yolk  is  another  attractive  garnish.  In  fact,  the  cream  soup  offers 
endless  possibilities.  In  our  search  for  nourishing  food  at  low  cost,  all  soup  should  find  a 
larger  place. 


CLASS  1— SOUP— RECIPES 


119 


SOUP  RECIPES 


Soups — The  foundation  of  all  soups  is  either 
meat  stock  made  from  beef,  veal,  chicken,  etc., 
or   vegetable   stock,   or   milk. 

Plain   Soup   Stock 1    lb.    each  of  lean  beef   and 

veal  cut  in  cubes,  2  lbs.  cracked  marrow  bones. 
Cover  with  cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  scald- 
ing point.  Close  the  pot;  simmer  several  hours. 
The  last  hour  add  stalks  of  celery,  a  turnip,  car- 
rot, onion,  salt,  pepper.  After  cooling  stock  skim 
off  fat,  strain  and  clear  according  to  previous 
directions. 

Many  varieties  of  soups  and  broths  may  be 
founded    upon   this   stock. 

Brown    Stock Brown    in    drippings,     1     lb.    beef 

cut  small,  add  2  lbs.  raw  beef  and  bones.  Cover 
with   cold  water.      Proceed   as  with  Plain  Stock. 

White  Stock — Use  either  chicken  cut  up  or 
veal.  Make  as  for  Plain  Stock,  adding  a  lighter 
seasoning,  such  as  celery,  few  grains  paprika,  salt, 
chopped  parsley.  Cool,  remove  all  fat,  strain  and 
clear.  This  is  a  delicate  stock  foundation  for 
soup  for  young  children   or   convalescents. 

A  dinner  soup  preceding  a  heavy  meal  should 
be  light,  clear,  hot,  and  served  with  bread,  or 
breadsticks. 

Bouillon  (A  Clear  Soup) — Allow  1  pt.  of  water 
to  each  lb.  beef  and  bone.  Cut  up  meat;  cover 
with  cold  water  and  let  stand  I  hour.  Heat  gradu- 
ally to  boiling;  simmer  several  hours  until  all 
strength  is  out  of  meat.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Also  celery  and  onion  if  desired.  Cool 
until  grease  rises  and  hardens,  skim,  strain  and 
clear.       Serve    very    hot. 

Chicken  Bouillon — Cut  up  a  4-lb.  fowl.  Cover 
with  4  qts.  cold  water;  bring  slowly  to  a  boil. 
Simmer  until  meat  falls  from  bones.  Last  J/2  hour 
season  lightly  with  celery  salt,  pepper,  onion 
juice.  Cool,  remove  fat,  strain  out  bones  and 
meat,    clear,    serve    hot. 

Queen  of  Hearts  Bouillon — Boil  2  doz.  chopped 
oysters  in  I  pt.  cold  water,  5  minutes.  Strain, 
season  to  taste.  Just  before  serving,  drop  tiny 
heart-shaped  pieces  of  pimientoes  into  each  cup 
of  bouillon.  Serve  with  bread  cut  into  small 
heart^shapes,    toasted. 

Jellied    Bouillon To     I     qt.    boiling    hot    beef    or 

chicken  stock  add  1  tbsp.  granulated  gelatine 
softened  in  J/£  cup  cold  water.  Strain  into  bouillon 
cups.  Serve  ice  cold.  Garnish  each  portion  with 
chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  1  teasp.  of  whipped 
cream. 

Bouillon  Cubes — When  it  is  inconvenient,  be- 
cause of  lack  of  time  or  materials,  to  make  meat 
or  vegetable  stock,  the  modern  housewife  can  use 
the  compressed  meat  and  vegetable  cubes  now  on 
the  market.  They  may  be  used  plain  with  boiling 
water  for  bouillons  or  as  a  foundation  for  heavier 
soups. 


Consomme  (Clear  Soup) — Brown  3  lbs.  diced 
lean  beef  in  suet  with  Yl  sliced  onion.  Cover 
with  2  qts.  cold  water,  simmer  in  closed  pot  sev- 
eral hours.  Add  1  carrot,  turnip,  celery,  2  cloves, 
parsley.  Cook  I  hour  longer.  Strain,  cool,  skim 
off  fat.  Reheat  to  boiling.  Stir  in  white  of  I  egg 
beaten  in  2  tbsp.  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire, 
strain   in    cloth,   season   to   taste. 

Mutton  Broth — Cut  away  the  fat  and  skin  from 
2  lbs.  mutton.  Place  lean  pieces  in  3  pts.  cold 
water,  add  bones  and  seasonings  of  1  teasp.  salt, 
grated  carrot,  few  grains  pepper.  Simmer  until 
tender.  Strain,  cool,  skim  off  fat.  Add  either 
rice,  or  barley  previously  soaked  1 2  hours.  Cook 
until  cereal  is  done. 

Oxtail  Soup — Wash  1  oxtail,  cut  up  at  joints. 
Brown  I  minced  onion  in  suet,  add  J/2  oxtail 
pieces  dredged  in  flour.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  other  J/£  oxtail,  J/2  teasp.  salt,  tiny 
bag  of  several  mixed  spices  and  water  to  cover 
all.  Simmer  about  3  hours.  Remove  browned 
meat  to  be  served  with  soup.  Continue  cooking 
until  remainder  falls  from  bones.  Strain,  cool, 
skim  off  cold  fat.  If  flavoring  is  not  satisfactory, 
add  more  salt  and  pepper  or  some  brown  stock, 
or  reheat  for  20  minutes  with  minced  vegetables 
as    onion,    carrot,    turnip,    celery. 

Julienne  (A  Clear  Soup  with  Shredded  Vege- 
tables)  Use    I    pt.    of    such    vegetables   as   may   be 

convenient  or  even  leftovers,  as  peas,  string 
beans,  or  asparagus,  onion,  celery,  turnip,  carrot, 
cabbage.  Cut  them  into  small  fancy  shapes,  boil 
in  salted  water  until  tender.  Add  1  qt.  strong 
soup  stock.  Cook  gently  1 5  minutes.  Before 
serving,  add  chopped  parsley  to  taste  and  boil  up 
once. 

Thickened  Soups — Soups  which  form  an  entire 
meal  or  precede  a  light  lunch  should  be  of  a 
nutritious  character  rather  than  mainly  stimulat- 
ing, as  are  clear  soups. 

Chicken   Bisque    (Stock  Thickened  with  Minced 

Meat    and   Crumbs) Cut    up    1    chicken.      Simmer 

in  cold  water  as  for  Plain  Stock,  adding  minced 
onion  and  celery.  Remove  bones,  when  cold  chop 
meat  fine.  Heat  together  I  cup  of  milk,  pinch 
soda,  minced  parsley.  Thicken  with  1  tbsp.  but- 
ter and  I  teasp.  flour  mixed.  Bring  soup  to  boil. 
Stir  in  thickened  milk,  minced  chicken,  and  1  cup 
cracker    crumbs    moistened    in    milk.       Serve. 

Corn    Bisque 1    doz.    small    ears    fresh    corn,    or 

1  can  corn.  Simmer  in  I  qt.  salted  water  I  hour. 
Rub  corn  through  colander,  reheat,  stir  in  I 
teasp.  sugar,  2  tbsp.  flour  and  2  tbsp.  butter  rubbed 
together. 

When  mixture  is  stirred  smooth,  add  slowly  1 
pt.  hot  milk,  salt  to  taste.  Pour  soup  over  2 
beaten   eggs   in   hot   tureen.      Serve   at  once. 


1 20        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Bisque  of  Crab — Cut  up  and  mash  the  meat 
from  several  boiled  crabs.  Simmer  30  minutes  in 
1  qt.  of  water  with  either  1  cup  bread  crumbs 
and  I  tbsp.  butter  or  1  cup  rice.  If  rice  is  used 
rub  through  sieve  when  done.  Add  Yl  CUP  not 
water  mixed  with  Yl  cup  hot  cream  thickened 
with  1  tbsp.  butter.  Season  with  paprika  and  salt. 
Serve   quickly,   hot. 

Cream  Soups — Use  only  fresh  milk.  Before 
heating  add  pinch  of  soda  to  prevent  curdling. 
Keep  milk  cooking  below  boiling  point  in  a  double 
boiler. 

Plain  Cream  Soup  Stock — Scald  1  qt.  milk  in 
double  boiler  with  I  teasp.  chopped  onion.  In 
separate  pan  melt  1  tbsp.  butter,  stir  in  1  tbsp. 
flour.  Add  slowly  1  cup  hot  milk,  cook  until 
creamy.  Pour  this  into  milk  in  boiler  with  1  teasp. 
salt,    pinch    of   pepper.      Finish   as   desired. 

Thick  cream  and  vegetable  soups  are  served 
with  croutons,  small  squares  of  bread  toasted  in 
oven   until   crisp   and   brown. 

Cream  Soup  Made  with  Canned  Milk — Canned 
milk  may  be  used  most  successfully  in  cream  soup 
foundations.  Take  Yl  the  amount  of  milk  in 
recipe,  as  evaporated  (or  condensed)  milk  should 
be    thinned   with   an    equal   portion   of  water. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup — Boil  1  head  celery  40 
minutes  in  1  pt.  water.  When  it  is  tender  mash 
celery,  stir  into  1  qt.  of  steaming  hot  Cream 
Stock  with  1  teasp.  butter.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Strain,  serve.  This  is  enriched  by  either 
pouring  it  over  1  beaten  egg,  or  adding  1  cup 
whipped    cream   when    soup    is    in    the    tureen. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup — Cook  Yl  can  tomatoes, 
J/2  teasp.  sugar  20  minutes,  add  pinch  of  soda, 
mash,  rub  through  strainer.  Combine  tomato 
mixture  with  3  pts.  of  prepared  cream  stock;  both 
must  be  hot.  Pour  the  tomato  carefully  into  the 
cream  stock  to  prevent  curdling.  Serve  at  once 
without    cooking   more. 

Peanut  Soup — Make  a  "Roux"  of  2  tbsp.  pea- 
nut butter,  1  tbsp.  flour.  Mix  in  slowly  2  cups 
boiling  water,  stirring  to  keep  smooth;  add  2 
cups  scalded  milk  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
serve  at  once  with  oyster  crackers. 

Cream  of  Spinach  Soup — Drain  the  water  from 
well-cooked  spinach.  Blend  1  tbsp.  flour  with  1 
tbsp.  melted  butter,  add  slowly  1  cup  hot  spinach 
water,  1  cup  chopped  mashed  spinach,  2  cups  hot 
milk.  Cook  slowly,  stir  until  creamy.  Salt  to 
taste.      Serve   with    toast. 

Cream  of  Lettuce  Soup — Boil  lettuce  10  min- 
utes. Make  this  in  the  same  way  as  spinach  soup. 
It   is   more   delicate. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup — Heat  I  can  corn  with  3 
cups  milk  in  double  boiler.  Simmer  1  minced 
onion    in    2    tbsp.    butter    until    tender.       Cream    in 


1  Yl  tbsp.  flour.  Blend  this  with  the  corn  and 
milk  in  double  boiler,  salt  and  pepper,  I  tbsp. 
sugar.      Cook  30  minutes. 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Soup — Use  either  canned 
or  fresh  cooked  asparagus.  After  setting  aside 
the  tips  boil  the  stalks  and  juice  30  minutes  in 
either  2  qts.  white  meat  stock,  or  3  cups  water, 
later  adding  3  cups  milk.  Press  through  coarse 
sieve.  Blend  carefully  with  2  tbsp.  melted  butter 
mixed  with  4  tbsp.  flour,  salt,  pepper,  Yl  CUP  not 
cream.  Add  the  tips  hot  and  I  teasp.  chopped 
parsley.      Simmer    1    minute.      Serve. 

Potato  Soup Potato  soup  should  be  well  sea- 
soned to  make  it  as  palatable  as  it  is  nourishing. 
To  6  boiled  potatoes,  mashed  while  hot,  add 
slowly  I  qt.  rich  milk  scalded  with  1  small  onion 
and  celery  stalk  minced.  Mix  well,  2  tbsp.  butter 
creamed  with  1  tbsp.  flour,  1  teasp.  salt,  minced 
parsley,  a  few  grains  paprika.  Simmer  1 0  min- 
utes.     Serve  with   crisp   cheese  wafers. 

Cream  of  Barley  Soup — Wash  3  tbsp.  barley 
and  soak  overnight  in  1  cup  water.  Heat  in  double 
boiler  I  cup  water,  I  qt.  milk,  4  tbsp.  butter. 
Add  soaked  barley.  Cook  several  hours  until 
soft.^  Season  with  salt.  Stir  in  lightly  the  frothy 
white   of    1    egg. 

Farina  Milk  Soup — Stir  24  CUP  farina  slowly 
into  3  cups  boiling  salted  water.  Steam  in  double 
boiler  40  minutes.  Add  2  cups  scalded  milk,  1 
tbsp.  butter  with  which  2  beaten  yolks  ■were 
blended.  Stir  gently,  serve.  Drop  tbsp.  whipped 
cream   into   each  bowl  of  soup. 

Puree Puree    is    vegetables    or    cereals    cooked 

and   rubbed  through  a  sieve  to  make  a  thick  soup. 

Green  Pea  Puree — Boil  I  qt.  fresh  peas  in  I 
pt.  salted  water.  When  soft  mix  in  1  teasp.  minced 
onion,  parsley,  pinch  of  soda.  Cook  5  minutes. 
Mash  through  puree  strainer.  Reheat  with  I  cup 
seasoned  meat  stock,  Yl  teasp.  sugar,  I  teasp. 
butter. 

Puree  of  Dried  Beans — Soak  2  cups  beans  over- 
night. Bean  soup  will  have  a  grainy  rough  taste 
if  they  are  underdone.  Cook  until  tender  in  3 
qts.  water  together  with  a  ham-bone  or  pieces 
of  salt  pork.  Add  Yl  onion,  1  potato,  several 
mixed  spices,  seasoning.  Simmer  30  minutes 
longer. 

Press  through  a  puree  strainer.  Pour  into  hot 
tureen  over  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  lemon 
slices. 

Puree  of  Lentils — Soak  2  cups  of  dry  lentils 
overnight.  Drain.  Cook  slowly  until  tender  in  2 
cups  water,  2  cups  strained  tomato  juice,  I  sliced 
onion,  parsley.  As  water  evaporates  add  beef 
stock  from  which  the  fat  has  not  been  removed. 
Rub  all  through  sieve,  cook  5  minutes  with  I 
teasp.  sugar,  2  teasp.  salt,  dash  of  paprika.  Com- 
bine  with    I    tbsp.    flour   and    I    tbsp.    butter   mixed. 


CLASS  1— SOUP— RECIPES 


121 


Vegetable   Soup Trimmings   and    bones    from    a 

roast  or  stock  may  be  simmered  in  boiling  water 
and  gravy  together  with  any  vegetables  and 
seasonings  convenient.  Or  boil  in  1  qt.  water 
until  thoroughly  done  the  following  diced  vege- 
tables: Yl  cupful  each  of  turnip,  celery,  onion, 
carrot,  1  cupful  each  of  cabbage,  fresh  peas,  po- 
tatoes. Add  1  teasp.  salt,  a  little  pepper.  More 
water  if  necessary.  When  vegetables  are  tender 
put  in  I  qt.  soup  stock.  Cook  5  minutes,  serve 
with  croutons.      Half  this  recipe  for  a  small  family. 

Boiled  Soup  Meat — The  juices  will  return  to 
tasteless  dry  soup  meat  if  it  is  left  in  soup  over- 
night. It  will  be  more  nutritious  and  palatable 
to   eat. 

Okra    Gumbo    Soup Cut     1     qt.    okra    into    inch 

pieces,  boil  gently  in  I  qt.  water  with  Yl  lb. 
minced  corned  beef,  1  sliced  onion,  1  pt.  tomato 
juice.  Add  I  qt.  stock,  preferably  of  chicken. 
When  okra  is  tender,  skim  any  fat,  season,  add 
minced  chicken  or  oysters.  Serve  with  I  tbsp. 
rice  for  each  plate. 

Tomato    Soup Cook     I     large    onion    and    green 

pepper  minced  for  5  minutes  in  2  tbsp.  melted 
butter  or  drippings.  Mix  into  this  I  qt.  canned 
tomatoes,  1  pt.  soup  stock,  several  tiny  spices. 
Simmer  gently  1 5  minutes.  Add  parsley,  few 
grains  pepper  and  salt  if  needed.  Thicken  with 
a  roux  of  1  tbsp.  flour,  I  tbsp.  butter.  Turn  in 
2    tbsp.    cooked    macaroni    and    serve. 

Plain  Chicken  Soup — Cut  up  an  old  fowl,  slic- 
ing meat  from  leg  bones.  Put  all  on  in  4  qts.  cold 
water,  2  teasp.  salt.  Boil  up  quickly.  Simmer 
4  hours,  until  tender;  strain.  Put  in  soup  Yl  CUP 
washed  rice,  3  minced  celery  stalks.  Cook  30 
minutes.  Add  seasoning,  minced  parsley  and 
breast    of   chicken    chopped. 

Turkey  Soup  or  Chicken — Break  apart  the  car- 
cass of  a  roast  turkey,  simmer  in  I  qt.  water 
with  leftover  gravy,  dressing,  and  Yl  cup  cold 
vegetables,  as  peas,  and  asparagus.  Add  grated 
Ya  onion,  1  thinly  sliced  raw  potato,  salt.  When 
ready    to    serve,    remove   all   bones. 

Corn  Chowder — Brown  Yl  CUP  sliced  onion  in 
Ya,  lb  •  chopped  salt  pork  or  2  tbsp.  lard.  Cook 
I  cup  sliced  potatoes  in  salted  water  5  minutes, 
drain.  To  the  onions  add  the  potatoes,  2  cups 
sweet  corn,  3  cups  boiling  water,  pepper,  I  teasp. 
salt,  Yl  cup  cracker  crumbs.  Simmer  30  min- 
utes. Add  I  pt.  hot  milk  thickened  with  I  tbsp. 
flour.  Keep  it  to  the  consistency  of  chowder  by 
thinning   with    water. 

Fish  Chowder — Slice  the  flesh  of  a  large  had- 
dock into  2-inch  pieces.  Brown  1  onion,  sliced, 
in  the  fat  fried  out  from  minced  salt  pork.  Re- 
move onions  from  pot,  put  in  layers  of  fish,  sliced 
and  parboiled  potatoes  with  the  onions  and  parsley 
sprinkled  between.  Repeat.  Season  with  '/£  teasp. 
pepper,    1    tbsp.   salt.      Coyer  "with    1    qt.  cold  water, 


bring  to  a  boil,  and  simmer  30  minutes.  Thicken 
I  pt.  hot  milk  with  I  tbsp.  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Add   slowly  to   chowder.      Serve   very  hot. 

Clam  Chowder  —  Clam  or  scallop  chowder 
may  be  made  like  the  above,  adding  a  pinch  of 
cayenne  pepper,  1  cupful  tomato  juice,  instead 
of   the    pt.    of   milk. 

Oyster  Soup — Drain  1  qt.  oysters  from  their 
liquor,  scald  1  qt.  milk,  thickened  with  2  tbsp. 
flour  creamed  in  2  tbsp.  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Bring  oyster  liquor  to  a  boil,  strain  through  cloth, 
reheat  with  the  oysters  until  they  begin  to  curl  at 
edges.  Mix  in  the  hot  thickened  milk,  remove  at 
once    and    serve. 

CROUTONS  AND  FORCEMEATS 
FOR  SOUP 

Croutons — Trim  crust  from  stale  bread.  But- 
ter slices  lightly,  cut  into  J/2-inch  cubes.  Brown 
in    oven.      Serve  -with  soups. 

Bread  Sticks — Cut  trimmed  sliced  stale  bread 
into  %-inch  strips.  Drop  into  very  hot  lard  or 
cottolene    for    Yl    minute.       Drain. 

Noodles Into    2    beaten    eggs    stir    2    pinches    of 

salt,  butter  size  of  walnut  rubbed  into  a  little  flour 
and  moistened  with  2  tbsp.  warm  water.  Knead 
in  enough  flour  to  make  a  firm  dough,  roll  out 
very  thin,  cut  into  J4-inch  strips  with  a  sharp 
floured  knife.  Roll  strips  into  balls,  set  aside  to 
dry  30  minutes  or  longer.  Cook  for  15  minutes 
in  boiling  salted  water,  drain,  add  to  clear  soup. 
Or   cook   in    the   boiling   soup   itself. 

Filled  Noodle  Turnovers — Make  plain  noodle 
dough;  dry  30  minutes.  Beat  together  a  filling 
of  I  cupful  chopped  cooked  spinach,  J4  lb.  plain 
sausage  meat,  or  minced  ham,  2  beaten  eggs,  2 
tbsp.  ground  rye  bread,  pinch  of  sage,  pepper, 
salt. 

Roll  dough  thin  as  possible,  cut  in  strips  3 
inches  long,  2  inches  wide;  spread  with  filling, 
fold  strip  over  like  turnover  biscuit.  Drop  care- 
fully   into    soup,    cook    1 5    minutes. 

Spinach  Balls  —  Take  I  cup  finely  chopped 
seasoned  spinach,  I  cup  pulverized  whole  wheat 
bread  crumbs.  Moisten  well  with  white  of  egg. 
Season   with    I    drop   tobasco,    I    pinch  salt. 

After  5  minutes  shape  in  balls  size  of  walnut, 
drop  into  boiling  soup  for  5  minutes.  Serve  in 
clear   broths   or    cream    soups. 

Forcemeat  Balls — Heat  2  tbsp.  drippings;  stir 
in  Yl  cup  dried  bread  crumbs,  Yl  cup  milk. 
Season  I  cup  plain  chopped  beef,  veal,  or  chicken 
with  !4  teasp.  salt,  pinch  of  ground  spices  and 
pepper.  Combine  the  meat,  crumb  paste  and  1 
beaten  egg;  mix  well.  Set  aside  for  Yl  hour. 
Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  soup,  mold  force- 
meat into  small  balls.  Simmer  in  tightly  covered 
pot   of  soup. 


1 22        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Ham  Sponge  Balls — Make  a  paste  of  minced 
lean  ham,  drops  of  onion  juice,  parsley,  3  tbsp. 
stale  rye  bread  crumbs.      Bind  with  beaten  yolk   of 

1  egg.       Mold    into    almond    shaped    balls    between 

2  spoons.  Cook  1 0  minutes  in  gently  boiling 
soup.  Serve  in  spinach  or  bean  soups  or  con- 
somme. 

Forcemeat  Fish  Balls — Put  Yl  CUP  white  flesh 
of  cooked  fish  through  food  chopper.  Sprinkle 
with  few  drops  of  olive  oil  and  a  dash  of  flour 
to  make  it  stick  together.  Press  into  filbert  balls, 
roll  in  flour  or  cornmeal,  drop  into  hot  lard. 
When  crisp,  brown,  drain,  and  add  with  slices  of 
lemon    to    split   soup   when    it    is    served. 


Angel  Dumplings  for  Two — Mix  Yl  teacup 
flour,  I  tbsp.  butter  in  saucepan.  Stir  in  '/£  cup 
milk,  white  of  1  egg,  until  smooth.  When  cool, 
fold  in  yolk  of  1  egg  seasoned  with  pinch  of  salt 
and  sweet  marjoram.  Cut  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time 
and   cook   in   boiling  hot   soup. 

Custard  of  Chestnut  Forcemeats — Mash  to  a 
paste  2  well  cooked  large  meally  chestnuts.  Mix 
with  2  tbsp.  milk,  I  tbsp.  vegetable  broth.  Fold 
into  this  2  beaten  egg  yolks,  few  grains  cayenne, 
Yz  teasp.  salt.  Pour  into  buttered  moulds,  place 
in  hot  water,  bake  until  firm.  Cool,  remove  from 
moulds,  cut  into  julienne  strips,  add  to  con- 
somme. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


■imiiiiimimiiiiimiiimmimiiiiimiiiMim iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiini in iiimiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuh 


CLASS  2 


i 


eats 


rlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMMIIIIIIIMIIir; 

THE  TERM  MEAT  is  the  name  given  to  the  flesh  of  all  animals  that  is 
used  for  food.  Meat  is  principally  albuminoids,  fats,  mineral  matter,  and  water. 
Albumen  makes  blood  and  muscle.  It  dissolves  in  cold  water  and  coagulates  by 
the  application  of  heat,  beginning  to  coagulate  at  135  degrees  Fahrenheit  and 
solidifying  at  1 60  degrees.  Meat,  therefore,  should  be  cooked  in  water  below  the 
boiling  point,  and  in  boiling  and  roasting  a  high  temperature  used  to  quickly 
harden  the  surface  so  that  the  juices  are  retained. 

Remove  meat  from  paper  as  soon  as  it  comes;  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth 
and  place  in  a  cool,  clean  place.  See  that  it  is  uniform  in  color,  and  firm  and 
elastic.  Select  beef  with  cream  colored  fat,  avoid  the  dark  yellow  fat,  which  indi- 
cates an  old  animal. 

The  tender  cuts  of  meat  are  most  expensive;  the  cheaper  cuts,  not  in  so 
high  demand,  are  the  most  highly  flavored  and  most  nutritious,  but  require  more 
care  and  more  time  in  properly  cooking. 

COOKING    METHODS 

Roasting — The  meat  should  rest  about  an  inch  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  on 
roasting  rack.  To  prepare  rub  the  meat  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  with  flour  for 
dry  surface.  If  meat  is  very  lean  its  flavor  is  improved  by  placing  over  the  surface  thin 
slices  of  fat  meat,  its  own  fat,  or  bacon  or  pork,  leaving  it  there  until  there  are  sufficient 
drippings  in  which  to  baste  the  joint,  an  equal  amount  of  water  being  added  to  the  bast- 
ing drippings.  When  done,  remove  to  hot  platter,  draining  off  the  fat,  then  add  sufficient 
water  to  dissolve  the  glaze  in  the  pan.  This  makes  the  gravy,  which  may  be  thickened 
with  brown  roux  or  served  "au  jus." 

The  time  varies,  but  this  method  is  the  same  for  all  roasted  meats. 

Broiling  means  cooking  by  direct  exposure  over  flame  or  coals.  First  sear  the  sur- 
face by  exposing  to  intense  heat  at  once;  this  retains  the  juices.  The  exposure  is  then 
reduced  somewhat  to  secure  thorough  cooking  without  scorching  the  exterior. 

Pan-Broiling — A  steel  or  iron  frying  pan  is  highly  heated,  then  rubbed  with  fat 
meat  until  well  greased.  The  meat  is  seasoned  and  laid  in  pan  only  long  enough  to  sear 
well  on  under  side,  then  turned  to  sear  the  other  side,  continuing  the  turning  to  retain  the 
juices,    reducing   the   heat,    to   cook   more   slowly  until  done. 

Braising — This  is  sometimes  confused  with  roasting,  but  is  essentially  different  if 
done  correctly.      It  is  especially  suitable  for  tough  cuts  or  those  lacking  in  flavor. 

Use  a  deep  pan  with  close  cover.  These  are  frequently  sold  as  roasters  when  only  in 
reality  braising  pans.  The  parts  fit  together  tightly  to  confine  the  steam  and  the  meat  is 
cooked  thus:  in  its  own  vapor.  The  toughest  cuts  may  be  cooked  as  tender  as  veal. 
Lemon  juice  is  an  excellent  addition,  and  improves  the  gravy  left  in  the  pan. 


\ 


123 


1 24        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Braising  permits  laying  the  meats  on  a  bed  of  vegetables  or  herbs,  the  juices  of 
which  add  to  the  flavor,  the  whole  making  a  most  appetizing,  satisfying  combination  to 
the  palate. 

Very  dry  meats,  braised,  may  be  improved  by  "daubing."  Ordinary  cuts  will  cook 
well  in  their  steam  alone,  especially  with  the  lemon  juice,  or  some  vegetables. 

Sauteing — To  cook  in  shallow,  hot  pan  with  a  little  fat,  browning  alternately  on 
one  side  and  the  other. 

Frying — To  cook  in  hot  fat  deep  enough  to  entirely  cover  the  meat. 

Dipping  Mixtures — If  meat  mixtures  do  not  contain  eggs,  dip  in  crumbs  and  egg, 
for  a  surface  to  prevent  the  food  from  absorbing  fat  in  frying.  The  albumen  of  the  egg 
hardens  and  forms  a  protecting  coat. 

Boiling — Follow  the  principle  of  high  heat  at  first  until  a  layer  of  albumen  hardens 
to  retain  the  meat  juices;  then  drop  temperature  to  a  simmer  and  cook  very  slowly  until 
the  tissues  are  almost  ready  to  fall  apart.     Cool  partly  in  the  liquor ;  serve  on  very  hot  plates. 

For  Larding — Use  salt  pork  fat,  shaving  off  the  rind;  cut  the  fat  into  quarter-inch 
strips  and  cut  these  into  quarter-inch  strips  the  other  way.  Draw  these  strips  into  the  meat 
with  a  larding  needle,  evenly  and  in  alternate  rows,  until  entire  upper  surface  is  covered. 

Daubing — This  refers  to  the  process  of  forcing  the  large  lardings  through  the  meat 
from  one  surface  to  the  other. 

Never  Wash  Beef — Scrape,  if  necessary,  or  wipe  with  damp  cloth,  but  never  put  in 
the  water;  keep  it  in  a  cool  place,  but  not  directly  on  the  ice;  obviously  this  means  the  lower 
part  of  the  refrigerator. 

DIAGRAMS   OF   BUTCHER    CUTS 


:     -       ,:,-,'  ••■-3v:       W-'i 


}&<a' 5::'-= ■*(%■  Xvs..' : ': '„;....'-  i<s jy; 


BEEF 

Diagram  Showing  the  Various  Cuts  of  Beef.   The  Housewife  Who  Wants  to 

Reduce  the  Cost  of  Living  Should  Be  as  Familiar  with  These  as  the 

Butcher,  Understanding  Their  Prices,  Their  Relative  Values 

and  the  Use  for  Which  Each  Is  Best  Adapted. 


CLASS  2— MEATS— DIAGRAMS  OF  CUTS 


125 


MUTTON  OR  VEAL 
As  Shown  in  This  Diagram,  the  Cuts  of  Mutton  or  Veal  Are  Fewer  Than 
Those  of  Beef,  But  It  Is  None  the  Less  Important  to  the  Buyer  of 
Meats  to  Be  Thoroughly  Familiar  with  Them. 


CHOOSING  MEATS 
LEARNING  THE  CUTS 

In  selecting  beef  for  roasts  or  steaks  see  that  the  lean  is  firm  and  red  and 
that  the  meat  is  finely  grained.  The  fat  should  be  firm  and  white.  Never  ac- 
cept any  meat  which  looks  flabby  or  discolored  or  on  which  the  fat  is  yellow.  In 
choosing  mutton  the  meat  should  be  dark  with  plenty  of  fat  in  it.  Meat  without 
fat  shows  poorly  fed  stock.  If  the  fat  is  yellow  and  the  meat  looks  wet  or  moist 
do  not  accept  it.  As  a  general  rule,  all  meat  should  be  firm,  never  flabby.  Lamb 
and  Veal  should  both  be  light-colored — pale.     Veal,  in  fact,  cannot  be  too  white. 

BEEF    CUTS 

The  question  of  cuts  is  largely  one  of  preparation  and  cooking.  In  food  value  there 
is  no  such  thing  as  good,  better,  or  best  cuts.  The  palate  or  neck  contain  as  much  nourish- 
ment as  porterhouse  steak;  the  difference  is  merely  texture  and  flavor — and  the  so-called 
tender,  and  expensive  cuts,  which  have  the  desirable  texture  without  much  cooking,  as  a  rule 
do  not  have  as  fine  flavor  as  the  so-called  tough  cuts  have  when  properly  dealt  with. 

The  problem  is  only  one  of  making  the  cheaper  cuts  come  out  without  losing  their 
inherent  flavor  by  bad  cooking  methods,  such  as  letting  their  juices  escape  and  doing  them 
thereby   to    an    insipidity   merely   because   they  have  to  be  cooked  for  a  longer  time. 

In  buying,  learn  the  following  simple  facts:  Beef  is  divided  into  two  sides,  and  these 
again  into  fore  and  hind  quarters. 

The  Ribs  are  on  the  forequarters.  The  first  seven  are  called  the  prime  ribs,  the 
others  the  chuck  ribs.  The  prime  ribs  are  divided  into  the  first  cut,  the  best,  three  ribs; 
the  second,  two  ribs;  the  third,  two. 

The  ribs  are  usually  roasted,  the  ribs  left  in  or  the  roast  rolled.  The  meat  is  more 
juicy  with  ribs  left  in.  If  removed,  remember  they  are  weighed  in  before  removed  and 
you  therefore  pay  for  them  and  they  are  yours.  Have  the  bones  cracked,  then  take  them 
along,  cook  slowly  in  a  little  water  and  you  have  broth  for  soups  or  for  flavoring  uses. 

The  Neck  is  tough  but  very  nutritious  and  very  sweet  meat;  it  is  generally  used  for 
stew  or  mince  meat.  The  palate  is  used  in  the  same  way,  contains  more  fat  and  is  less  tough. 
With  the  brisket  and  the  navel  it  is  used  for  corned  beef. 

The  Shoulder  has  two  cuts,  known  as  the  cross  rib  and  the  shoulder  clod.  They  are 
tough,  but  free  from  bone  and  of  good  flavor.  They  make  most  excellent  pot  roast,  They 
need  long,  slow  cooking. 

The  Hind  Quarter — The  best  part  is  the  sirloin  or  prime  steaks,  which  is  the  por- 
tion between  the  rump  and  the  ribs. 

Porterhouse — That  between  the  last  rib  and  the  hip  bone  is  called  the  porterhouse. 
Inside  the  bone  the  tenderloin  is  found.  This  is  called  "T"  bone  steaks  when  removed  be- 
fore being  cut — from  the  shape  of  the  bone. 

The  Sirloin  Proper  is  divided  into  three  parts:  the  hip  bone,  which  is  nearest  the 
porterhouse;  the  flat  bone,  which  is  next,  and  is  very  good  if  you  can  cajole  the  butcher 
not   to   sell   you   all  bone;    and   the   round   bone,  nearest  the  rump. 

The  Rump  is  in  two  parts,  the  top  and  lower.  These  are  used  for  roasts;  also  the 
top   sirloin,   which   lies  below  the  sirloin  steaks  proper. 

126 


CLASS  2— MEATS— CHOOSING  MEATS  127 

The  Leg — The  upper  part  is  called  the  round,  the  first  two  cuts  of  which,  above  the 
bone,  are  very  tender.    Below  the  joint  it  is  called  the  shank,  and  is  used  principally  for  soups. 
The  Best  Beef  comes  from  corn-fed  steers  of  about  three  years  age. 

VEAL,   MUTTON,   LAMB,   PORK 
AND 
MISCELLANEOUS 

Veal  quality  depends  upon  age.  Calves  six  to  ten  weeks  old  are  best.  Under  six 
weeks  veal  is  not  good  food;  it  is  known  as  "bob-veal."  In  many  states  the  law  forbids  the 
sale  of  veal  under  four  weeks  old,  but  does  not  always  prohibit  it  successfully.  It  has  a  blu- 
ish tint  and  the  muscles  are  soft  and  undeveloped.  Meat  is  sold  as  veal  from  calves  up 
to  one  year  old. 

Veal  should  be  white  and  pink,  with  firm  grain  and  much  white  fat;  the  fat  cannot 
be  too  white. 

The  cuts  run  as  in  beef.  The  top  round  is  usually  called  fricandeau  of  veal.  It  is 
generally  roasted.      The  leg  and  shoulder  are   boned  and  roasted. 

Mutton,  if  not  carefully  dressed,  may  be  materially  affected  in  flavor,  due  to  cer- 
tain oil  in  the  skin  which  if  carelessly  removed  gives  the  meat  a  disagreeable,   strong  taste. 

English  mutton  has  smaller  bones  to  larger  proportions  of  meat;  mutton  at  best  has  a 
large  relative  weight  of  bone  to  muscle. 

The  meat  should  be  fine  grained,  red  and  juicy,  the  fat  white  and  firm,  and  thick 
on  the  legs  and  back. 

The  Saddle — If  not  divided  down  the  back,  the  ribs  and  loin  together  is  called  the 
short  saddle.     The  long  saddle  takes  in  the  back  entirely  to  the  tail,  which  is  left  on. 

The  Haunch  is  the  hindquarter  taken   as  a  whole. 

Lamb  is  in  Season  May  to  November.  Lamb  sold  in  winter  is  undersized  mutton, 
and  is  tough  and  dry — or  is  from  the  cold  storage  house. 

Pork — Pork  should  be  pink,  the  fat  firm  and  white,  although  the  fat  may  become 
pink  after  salt  is  applied. 

Diseased  pork  has  a  dull  appearance  and  shows  yellow  lumps  here  and  there 
in  the  flesh. 

Summer  Fresh  Pork  is  undesirable.  It  should  be  prohibited  from  May  1st  until 
December  1  st,  or  later. 

Poultry — This  is  treated  so  fully  under  Poultry  Recipes  Department  that  it  "begs 
to  be  excused"  under  this  general  talk  on  Meats  in  this  section. 

Meat  Trimmings — These  belong  to  the  purchaser — they  are  paid  for — the  meat  is 
invariably  weighed  before  the  butcher  asks  if  he  shall  trim  or  dress  it  for  you. 

The  Feet  of  fowls  contain  gelatine  and  other  valuable  additions  to  gravies  and  soups. 
Those  of  calves,  hogs  and  sheep  make  soups  or  jellies,  or  can  be  boiled,  pickeled,  fried 
in  butter  or  stewed,  or  with  parts  of  the  head  make  scrapple.  The  heads  of  calves  and  pigs 
make  head  cheese. 

The  Livers  of  pigs,  poultry,  calves,  beef,  sheep,  are  all  excellent,  except  perhaps  that 
of  beef  is  lacking  in  delicacy.  Liver  should  be  free  from  streaks  or  lumps  and  smooth 
in  appearance.  Lambs'  liver  is  more  toothsome  and  delicate,  by  the  way,  than  calves' 
liver,  and  costs  less. 


1 28        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Bulletin  of  the 

Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture 

on 

MEATS 

COMPOSITION   OF  MEAT 

1.  Protein  3.   Mineral    Salts. 

2.  Fat.  4.   Water 

AVERAGE     COMPOSITION    OF    EDIBLE    POR- 
TION  OF  DIFFERENT   CUTS   OF  MEAT 
(Farmers'    Bulletin,    No.    391) 


Kind    of    Meat. 


Beef: — 

Brisket 

Chuck  rib. 

Flank 

Porter-house 

Neck . ; 

Bibs 

Bound 

Shank 

Side 

Veal: — Side    with    kidney,    fat    and    tallow 

Mutton: — Side,     without    tallow 

Lamb : — Side,     without     tallow 

Pork: — 

Tenderloin 

Chops 


c 

~  fc 

15 

8 

19 

0 

19 

6 

21 

9 

20 

T 

17 

8 

20 

9 

21 

4 

18 

8 

20 

2 

16 

2 

17 

6 

18 

9 

16 

4 

a. 

u 

28 

.5 

13 

4 

21 

1 

20 

4 

12 

7 

24 

6 

10 

6 

8 

1 

18 

8 

8 

1 

29 

8 

23 

1 

13 

0 

32 

0 

0.9 
1.0 

.9 
1.0 
1.0 

.9 
1.1 


1.0- 

.8 

1.1 

1.0 


1.195 
920 

1.255 

1,270 
920 

1,370 
835 
740 

1,145 

1,560 
1,300 

900 

1,655 


IN  SELECTING  MEAT 
POINTS  TO  OBSERVE 

1.  Color 

2.  Fiber 

3.  Tendons 

5.    Location    of    cut 

4.  Fat 


C    H 


RETAIL  CUTS  OF  BEEF 


Rib 


FORE  QUARTER 
Plate 


1.  1  Ith  and    12th 

2.  9th  and    10th  ri 

3.  7th    and    8th    ri 

4.  6th    rib    roast. 
Chuck 

1.    5  th    rib    roast 
2-9.    Chuck   steaks 
10-13.    Pot    roasts 

14.  Clod 

15.  Neck 


rib   roast         I.    Brisket 
b   roast  2.    Navel 

3    roast  3,  4.    Rib    ends 

Fore  Shank 

1 .  Stew 

2.  Knuckle   soup   bones 
3-6.   Soup  bones 


Round 
Rump 

1.  Rump 
Round:    rump    and    shank    off 

2.  Round    steak,    first    cut 
3-13.    Round    steaks 

1 4.  Round   steak,   last   cut 

1 5.  Knuckle    soup    bone 

1 6.  Pot    roast 
Hind  Shank 

17.  18.    Soup   bones 
1 9.    Hock  soup   bone 


HIND   QUARTER 

Loin 

1 .  Butt-end    sirloin    steak 

2.  Wedge-bone    sirloin   steak 

3.  4.    Round-bone    sirloin   steak 
5,  6.    Double-bone   sirloin   steak 

7.  Hip-bone   sirloin   steak 

8.  Hip-bone    porterhouse   steak 
9-15.    Regular    porterhouse   steak 
16-18.    Club   steaks 

Flank 

1.  Flank    steak 

2.  Stew 


Bulletin    158,   University   of  Illinois 


CLASS  2— MEATS— COMPOSITION 


129 


PRINCIPLES   OF   COOKERY   OF  MEATS 

1.  Heat  Hardens  Protein — Sear  meat  to  retain 
juices.  Cook  slowly  to  make  tender.  Extract  albu- 
men   by    soaking    in    cold    water. 

2.  Heat  Decomposes  Fat — Cook  fats  at  a  low 
temperature  (bacon,  pork  chops).  Remove  fat 
from  pan  as   fast  as  it  fries  out  of  the  meat. 

Methods  of  Cooking  Meats 

1.  To  extract  the  juices,  as  in  soups,  broths  and 
beef   teas. 

2.  To  retain  the  juices,  as  in  broiling,  roasting, 
boiling  and  frying. 

3.  Combination  of  both,  as  in  stewing  and 
braising  where  part  of  the  juices  are  retained  and 
part    extracted. 

Beef  tea,  beef  juice  and  beef  extract  are  some 
of  the  products  made  from  beef,  having  more  or 
less  food  value,  according  to  the  method  of  prep- 
aration. Beef  juice  is  the  fluid  portion  of  the 
muscle  fiber,  obtained  by  pressure,  usually,  and 
may  be  concentrated  by  evaporation  at  a  tem- 
perature below  the  coagulating  point  of  the  soluble 
proteins. 

Meat  extract  is  made  by  extracting  the  juice 
of  meat  by  boiling  water  and  then  concentrating 
by  evaporation.  Beef  extract  was  at  one  time 
highly  recommended  by  Liebig,  who  said  it  had 
great  nutritive  value  because  it  contained  much 
nitrogen     in    a     form    readily    absorbed    from    the 


digestive  tract.  Later  he  said:  "It  does  not  give 
us  strength,  but  makes  us  aware  of  our  strength." 
In  other  words,  it  is  a  stimulant  rather  than  having 
any  great  food  value.  Sherman  tells  of  a  series 
of  experiments  performed  by  Crindley,  and  says 
that  never  were  they  able  to  obtain  more  than 
1 3  per  cent,  of  the  true  protein  of  the  meat  in 
the  broth,  even  when  made  under  very  careful 
conditions,    and   the   average  was   only    7   per   cent. 


METHODS  OF  COOKING  MEATS 

Boiling 

Leg    of    mutton     2    to    3  hrs. 

Ham    (12    to    14   lbs.)    4    to    5  hrs. 

Turkey    (9    lbs.)     2    to    3  hrs. 

Chicken    (3    lbs.)     I    to    \%    hrs. 

Broiling 

Steak    ( 1    in.    thick)     8   to    10  mint. 

Steak    ( I  ]/2    in.    thick)     12    to    15  mins. 

Fish     (slices)     15    to    20  mins. 

Roasting 

Rib    of   beef,    per   lb 10   to    15  mins. 

Leg  of  mutton,  per  lb 1 0   to    15  mins. 

Lamb,    per    lb 1 5    to    20  mins. 

Veal,    per    lb 1 5    to    20  mini. 

Pork,    per    lb 25    to   30  mins. 

Chicken,  per  lb 15    mins. 

Goose,   per  lb 18    mins. 

Eight    lb.    turkey     2    to   3    hrs. 

Large   turkey    3    to   4    hrs. 


ECONOMICAL  USE  OF  MEAT  IN  THE  HOME 

From  Farmers'  Bulletin  391,  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture   (Extracts) 

Value  of  Meat  as  Food — Considering  the  fact  that  meat  forms  an  impor- 
tant part  of  the  diet,  and  the  further  fact  that  the  price  of  meat,  as  of  other  foods,  has 
advanced  in  recent  years,  it  is  natural  for  housekeepers  to  seek  more  economical 
methods  of  preparing  meat  for  the  table,  and  to  turn  their  thoughts  toward  the 
less  expensive  cuts  and  ask  what  economy  is  involved  in  their  use,  how  they 
may  be  prepared,  and  whether  the  less  expensive  dishes  are  as  nutritious  and  as 
thoroughly  and  easily  digested  as  the  costlier  ones.     • 

The  value  of  meat  as  food  depends  chiefly  on  the  presence  of  two  classes  of  nutrients: 
(1)  Protein  or  nitrogenous  compounds,  and  (2)  fat.  The  mineral  matter  it  contains,  par- 
ticularly the  phosphorus  compounds,  is  also  of  much  importance,  though  it  is  small  in  quan- 
tity. Protein  is  essential  for  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  the  body,  and  both  protein 
and  fat  yield  energy  for  muscular  power  and  for  keeping  up  the  temperature  of  the  body. 
Fat  is  especially  important  as  a  source  of  energy.  It  is  possible  to  combine  the  fat  and  pro- 
tein of  animal  foods  so  as  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  body  with  such  materials  only, 
and  this  is  done  in  the  Arctic  regions,  where  vegetable  food  is  lacking;  but  it  is  in  gen- 
erally considered  that  diet  is  better  and  more  wholesome  when,  in  addition  to  animal  foods, 
such  as  meat,  which  is  rich  in  proteins  and  fats,  it  contains  vegetable  foods,  which,  are  richest 
in  sugar,  starch  and  other  carbohydrates.  Both  animal  and  vegetable  foods  supply  the 
mineral  substances  which  are  essential  to  bodily  growth  and  development.  In  meat  min- 
eral matter  constitutes  about  0.3  to  1.9  per  cent  on  an  average  of  the  total  fresh  material. 

The  difference  between  cuts  is  chiefly  in  the  amount  of  the  fat  and  consequently 
in  the  fuel  value.  So  far  as  the  proteins  are  concerned,  i.  e.,  the  substances  which  build  and 
repair  the  important  tissues  of  the  body,  very  little  difference  is  found.  For  all  practical 
every-day  purposes  it  may  be  considered  that  the  protein  obtained  from  a  given  weight  of 
meat  differs  very  little  either  with  the  kind  of  meat  or  the  cut.  The  fattest  portions  of 
pork,  which  are  used  for  salt  pork  or  cured  pork  and  bacon,  are  exceptions,  and  in  such  cuts 
the  proteins  may  be  as  low  as  8  or  9  per  cent. 


APPARENT    AND    ACTUAL    COST    OF    MEAT    IN    DIFFERENT    CUTS 

The  relative  retail  prices  of  the  various  cuts  usually  bear  a  direct  relation  to  the 
favor  with  which  they  are  regarded  by  the  majority  of  persons,  the  juicy  tender  cuts  of  good 
flavor  selling  for  the  higher  prices.  When  porterhouse  steak  sells  for  25  cents  a  pound,  it 
may  be  assumed  that  round  steak  would  ordinarily  sell  for  about  1  5  cents,  and  chuck  ribs, 
one  of  the  best  cuts  of  the  forequarter,  for  1  0  cents.  This  makes  it  appear  that  the  chuck 
ribs  are  less  than  half  as  expensive  as  porterhouse  steak  and  two-thirds  as  expensive  as  the 
round.  But  apparent  economy  is  not  always  real  economy,  and  in  this  case  the  bones  in  the 
three  cuts  should  be  taken  into  account.  Of  the  chuck  ribs,  more  than  one-half  is  bone  or 
other  materials  usually  classed  under  the  head  of  "waste"  or  "refuse."  Of  the  round,  one- 
twelfth  is  waste,  and  of  the  porterhouse  one-eighth.  In  buying  the  chuck,  then,  the  house- 
wife gets,  at  the  prices  assumed,  less  than  one-half  pound  of  food  for  ten  cents,  making  the 
net  price  of  the  edible  portion  22  cents  a  pound;  in  buying  round,  she  gets  eleven-twelfths 
of  a  pound  for  fifteen  cents,  making  the  net  value  about  16 Yl  cents;  in  buying  porterhouse, 
she  gets  seven-eighths  of  a  pound  for  25  cents,   making  the  net  value  about  28 Yl   cents  a 

130 


CLASS  2— MEATS— ECONOMICAL  USE  131 

pound.  The  relative  prices,  therefore,  of  the  edible  portions  are  22,  16J/2,  and  28'/2  cents; 
or,  to  put  it  in  a  different  way,  a  dollar  at  the  prices  assumed  will  buy  4  Yl  pounds  of  solid 
meat  from  the  cut  known  as  chuck,  6  pounds  of  such  meat  from  the  round  and  only  3  Yl 
pounds  of  such  meat  from  the  porterhouse.  To  this  should  be  added  the  fact  that  because 
of  the  way  in  which  porterhouse  is  usually  cooked  no  nutriment  is  obtained  from  the  bone, 
while  by  the  long,  slow  process  by  which  the  cheaper  cuts,  except  when  they  are  broiled  or 
fried,  are  prepared  the  gelatin,  fat  and  flavoring  material  of  the  bone  are  extracted.  The 
bones  of  meats  that  are  cooked  in  water,  therefore,  are  in  a  sense  not  all  refuse,  for  they  con- 
tain some  food  which  may  be  secured  by  proper  cookery. 

It  is  true,  of  course,  that  the  bones  of  steaks  may  be  used  for  soup-making,  and  that 
the  nourishment  may  thus  be  utilized,  but  this  must  be  done  by  a  separate  process  from 
that  of  cooking  the  steak  itself. 

LESSENING  THE  AMOUNT  OF  MEAT  USED. 

In  many  American  families  meat  is  eaten  two  or  three  times  a  day;  in  such  cases  the 
simplest  way  of  reducing  the  meat  bill  would  very  likely  be  to  cut  down  the  amount  used, 
either  by  serving  it  less  often  or  by  using  less  at  a  time.  Deficiency  of  protein  need  not  be 
feared  when  one  good  meat  dish  a  day  is  served,  especially  if  such  nitrogenous  materials  as 
eggs,  milk,  cheese  and  beans  are  used  instead.  In  localities  where  fish  can  be  obtained 
fresh  and  cheap,  it  might  well  be  more  cheaply  substituted  for  meat  for  the  sake  of  variety 
as  well  as  economy.  Ingenious  cooks  have  many  ways  of  "extending  the  flavor"  of  meat, 
that  is,  of  combining  a  small  quantity  with  other  materials  to  make  a  large  dish,  as  in  meat 
pies,  stews  and  similar  dishes. 

THE  FAT,  BONE  AND  TRIMMINGS  IN  MEAT,  AND  THE  LEFT-OVER  COLD  MEATS 

In  the  percentage  of  the  fat  present  in  different  kinds  and  cuts  of  meat,  a  greater 
difference  exists  than  in  the  percentage  of  proteins.  If  the  fat  of  the  meat  is  not  eaten  at 
the  table,  and  is  not  utilized  otherwise,  a  pecuniary  loss  results.  If  butter  is  the  fat  used  in 
making  crusts  for  meat  pies,  and  in  preparing  the  cheaper  cuts,  there  is  little  economy  in- 
volved; the  fats  from  other  meat  should  therefore  be  saved,  as  they  may  be  used  in  place 
of  butter  in  such  cases,  as  well  as  in  preparing  many  other  foods.  The  fat  from  sausage 
or  from  the  soup  kettle,  or  from  a  pot  roast,  which  is  savory  because  it  has  been  cooked  with 
vegetables,  is  particularly  acceptable.  Sometimes  savory  vegetables,  onion,  or  sweet  herbs 
are  added  to  fat  when  it  is  tried  out  to  give  it  flavor. 

Some  illustrations  of  methods  of  preparing  such  cooking  fats  follow: 

Trying-Out  Fat — A  double  boiler  is  the  best  utensil  to  use  in  trying-out  small  por- 
tions of  fat.  There  is  no  danger  of  burning  the  fat  and  the  odor  is  much  less  noticeable  than 
if  it  is  heated  in  a  dish  set  directly  over  the  fire.  I 

Clarifying  Fat. — Excepting  where  the  purpose  of  clarifying  fat  is  to  remove  flavor,  a 
good  method  to  follow  is  to  pour  boiling  water  over  the  fat,  to  boil  thoroughly,  and  then  to 
set  it  away  to  cool.  The  cold  fat  may  be  removed  in  a  solid  cake  and  any  impurities  cling- 
ing to  it  may  be  scraped  off,  as  they  -will  be  found  at  the  bottom  of  the  layer.  By  repeating 
this  process  two  or  three  times  a  cake  of  clean,  white  fat  may  be  obtained. 

A  slight  burned  taste  or  similar  objectionable  flavor  often  can  be  removed  from  fat 
by  means  of  potatoes.  After  melting  the  fat,  put  into  it  thick  slices  of  raw  potatoes;  heat 
gradually.  When  the  fat  ceases  to  bubble  and  the  potatoes  are  brown,  strain  through  a 
cloth  placed  in  a  wire  strainer. 


1  32       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Savory  Drippings — When  rendering  the  drippings  of  fat  meat,  add  a  small  onion  (do 
not  cut  it),  a  few  leaves  of  summer  savory  and  thyme,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little 
pepper.     This  is  enough  for  a  pint  of  fat.     Keep  the  drippings  covered  and  in  a  cool  place. 

Uses  for  Bones — Almost  any  meat  bones  can  be  used  in  soup  making,  and  if  the 
meat  is  not  all  removed  from  them  the  soup  is  better.  But  some  bones,  especially  the  rib 
bones,  if  they  have  a  little  meat  left  on  them,  can  be  grilled  or  roasted  into  very  palat- 
able dishes.  The  "sparerib"  of  Southern  cooks  is  made  of  the  rib  bones  from  a  roast  of 
pork,  and  makes  a  favorite  dish  when  well  browned.  The  braised  ribs  of  beef  often  served 
in  high-class  restaurants  are  made  from  the  bones  cut  from  rib  roasts.  In  this  connection 
it  may  be  noted  that  many  of  the  dishes  popular  in  good  hotels  are  made  of  portions  of 
meat  such  as  are  frequently  thrown  away  in  private  houses,  but  which  with  proper  cooking 
and  seasoning  make  attractive  dishes  and  give  most  acceptable  variety  to  the  menu.  An 
old  recipe  for  "broiled  bones"  directs  that  the  bones  (beef  ribs  or  sirloin  bones  on  which 
the  meat  is  not  left  too  thick  in  any  part)  be  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper  (Cayenne),  and 
broiled  over  a  clear  fire  until  browned.  Another  example  of  the  use  of  bones  is  boiled  mar- 
row bone.  The  bones  are  cut  in  convenient  lengths,  the  ends  covered  with  a  little  piece  of 
dough  over  which  a  floured  cloth  is  tied,  and  cooked  in  boiling  water  for  two  hours.  After 
removing  the  cloth  and  dough,  the  bones  are  placed  upright  on  toast  and  served.  Pre- 
pared as  above,  the  bones  may  also  be  baked  in  a  deep  dish.  Marrow  is  sometimes  re- 
moved from  bones  after  cooking,  seasoned,  and  served  on  toast. 

Trimmings  from  meat  may  be  utilized  in  various  "made  dishes,"  or  they  can  always 
be  put  to  good  use  in  the  soup  kettle.  It  is  surprising  how  many  economies  may  be  practiced 
in  such  ways  and  also  in  the  table  use  of  left-over  portions  of  cooked  meat  if  attention  is 
given  to  the  matter. 

METHODS    OF    EXTENDING    THE    FLAVOR   OF   MEAT 

Common  household  methods  of  extending  the  meat  flavor  through  a  considerable 
quantity  of  material  which  would  'Otherwise  be  lacking  in  distinctive  taste  are  to  serve  the 
meat  with  dumplings,  generally  in  the  dish  with  it,  to  combine  the  meat  with  crusts,  as  in 
meat  pies  or  meat  rolls,  or  to  serve  the  meat  on  toast  and  biscuits.  Borders  of  rice, 
hominy,  or  mashed  potatoes  are  examples  of  the  same  principles  applied  in  different  ways. 
By  serving  some  preparation  of  flour,  rice,  hominy,  or  other  food  rich  in  starch  with  the 
meat  we  get  a  dish  which  in  itself  approaches  nearer  to  the  balanced  ration  than  meat 
alone,  and  one  in  which  the  meat  flavor  is  extended  through  a  large  amount  of  the  material. 


IN  PLACE  OF  MEAT 
You  Eat  in  Order  to  Keep  Yourself  Alive 

(Reprint  from  publication,   "Substitutes  for  Meat,"    issued   by   Mayor   Mitchell's   Committee 

on  Food  Supply,  New  York) 

The  work  you  do,  the  exercise  you  take,  the  thoughts  you  think,  each 
breath  you  draw — all  these  use  up  a  certain  portion  of  your  body  each  day.  If 
you  want  to  live  and  keep  well,  this  used  up  portion  must  be  replaced,  and  this 
is  done  through  the  food  you  eat.  Part  of  your  food  furnishes  you  with  new 
blood;  part  of  it  goes  to  make  bone;  part  of  it  builds  up  new  tissue,  or  flesh. 

Meat  has  always  been  considered  the  best  tissue  or  flesh  building  food, 
and  for  this  reason  people  have  always  eaten  it  a  great  deal.  Most  of  our  meat 
has  come  from  the  Western  States,  but  the  tremendously  large  ranches  of  twenty 
years  ago  are  greatly  being  cut  up  into  small  farms  and  cattle  are  not  being  raised 
in  such  large  numbers  any  more,  and  this  is  one  reason  why  meat  costs  so  much. 
Another  reason  is  the  great  demand  there  is  for  it  on  the  part  of  the  people  who 
do  not  know  that  there  are  other  foods  that  will  supply  the  needs  of  the  body  in 
just  the  same  way  that  meat  does  and  which  do  not  cost  as  much  as  meat.  For 
instance,  we  can  use  fish  in  place  of  meat  much  more  than  we  do. 

Other  foods  that  can  take  the  place  of  meat  are  eggs,  milk,  creamed  soups,  macaroni, 
cheese,  cereals,  nuts,  bananas,  peas,  beans  and  lentils. 

Eggs  contain  all  the  elements,  in  the  right  proportion,  necessary  for  the  support  of 
the  body.  They  are  rich  in  the  same  flesh-building  element  as  the  lean  of  meat  and  therefore 
make  an  excellent  substitute  for  meat.  They  should  be  eaten  with  foods  that  are  rich  in 
starch,  such  as  bread  and  potatoes,  and  if  so  eaten  they  will  take  care  of  the  body  practi- 
cally as  meat  would. 

Milk  contains  heat  giving,  strength  giving  and  tissue  building  properties.  Creamed 
soups  and  purees  made  with  milk  and  the  pulp   of  vegetables  can  take  the  place  of  meat. 

Macaroni,  Spaghetti  and  noodles  contain  so  much  starch  and  flesh  building  material 
that  they  are  equal  to  meat  as  a  food  if  combined  with  cheese.  The  fat  that  they  lack  is 
supplied  by  the  cheese,  and  when  so  combined  they  make  a  perfect  food. 

Cheese  contains  in  a  condensed  form  the  same  flesh  building  material  as  meat  and 
can  be  used  in  place  of  it.  If  combined  with  macaroni,  rice,  etc.,  it  will  supply  all  the  needs 
of  the  body.  Cheese  costs  less  than  most  cuts  of  meat  and  a  given  amount  of  money  will 
buy  twice  as  much  food  value  if  spent  for  cheese  as  it  will  if  spent  for  beef. 

Cereals  contain  in  varying  proportions  all  the  elements  necessary  to  support  life. 
They  contain  a  great  deal  of  starch,  which  is  valuable  as  a  strength  giver.  Oatmeal  and  corn- 
meal  contain  more  fat  than  the  other  cereals  and  therefore  make  a  good  winter  food,  especially 
for  hard-working  people.  Cereals  with  cooked  fruits  are  very  appetizing.  A  bowl  of  oat- 
meal, eaten  for  breakfast,  will  furnish  the  average  man  with  all  the  strength,  heat  and  energy 
he  will  need ;  it  is  not  necessary  for  him  to  eat  meat  in  addition. 

Nuts  contain  in  condensed  form  the  same  flesh  building  material  as  meat.  Some  of 
them  contain  a  great  deal  of  fat  as  well.  They  should  not  be  eaten  between  meals,  but  raw 
or  cooked  they  can  take  the  place  of  meat.  A  pound  of  shelled  almonds  is  equal  in  food 
value  to  three  pounds  of  steak.  Hickory  nuts  and  pecans  added  to  muffins  or  yeast  breads 
may  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  meat.  Peanuts  are  also  rich  in  food  and  flesh  building 
material. 

133 


1  34        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Bananas  contain  most  of  the  nourishment  that  meat  does,  and  if  eaten  with  bread 
and  butter  make  an  excellent  lunch  without  the  addition  of  meat.  Most  children  prefer  banana 
sandwiches  to  meat  sandwiches,   and  they  cost  much  less. 

Peas,  Beans,  Lentils  are  richer  in  flesh  building  material  than  any  other  vegetables 
and  can  be  used  in  place  of  meat.  Lentils  are  more  easily  digested  than  either  peas  or 
beans.  If  properly  prepared,  all  these  make  very  appetizing  dishes.  A  dish  of  baked  beans, 
costing  about  fourteen  cents,  will  furnish  a  family  of  six  with  more  nourishment  than  two 
pounds  of  beef  costing  forty-four  cents. 

In  Stating  that  the  various  dishes  given  in  this  book  can  be  used  in  place  of  meat 
it  is  not  our  purpose  to  urge  one  to  give  up  eating  meat  altogether.  It  is  a  fact,  however, 
that  as  a  people  we  eat  too  much  meat  and  we  would  undoubtedly  find  much  benefit  physi- 
cally if  we  cut  down  the  amount  of  meat  we  eat,  and  varied  our  diet  more  than  we  do. 

We  do  not  have  to  eat  meat  in  order  to  keep  well  and  strong.  A  great  many  people 
never  eat  meat  at  all,  but  find  many  foods  of  the  strength-giving  properties  they  require. 

If  our  meat  supply  continues  to  dwindle  in  the  future  as  it  has  in  the  past  meat  will 
some  day  be  very  scarce  and  sooner  or  later  we  will  have  to  learn  to  use  other  foods  in 
place  of  meat. 

FOOD  SUBSTITUTES  FOR  MEATS 

Begin  Now  and  Save  Money 

(Recipes  given  and  recommended   in    the    above — Mayor    Mitchell's 
Committee  publication) 

Bananas — Moulded  Cereal  with  Banana  Surprise;  Baked  Bananas;  Banana  Fritters; 
Bananas  Fried  in  Crumbs;  Saute  Bananas;  Banana  Sandwich;  Banana  and  Nut  Salad. 

Peas — Puree  of  Peas;  Pea  Timbales;  Creamed  Peas;  Spring  Salad. 

Beans — Baked  Beans;  Boston  Baked  Beans;  Bean  Croquettes;  Boston  Roast;  Kidney 
Beans  and  Brown  Sauce;  Pork  and  Beans;  Bean  Polenta;  Puree  of  Beans. 

Rice — Savory  Rice;  Rice  Balls  with  Tomato  Sauce;  Cheesed  Rice;  Rice  with  Cheese; 
Turkish  Pilot;  Rice  a  la  Riston;  Rice  and  Cheese  Croquettes;  Baked  Rice  and  Cheese;  Rice 
and  Apple  Comote;   Rice  Muffins;   Raised   Rice  Muffins. 

Nuts — Nut  Loaf;  Nut  and  Cheese  Roast;  Nut  Scrapple;  Nut  and  Celery  Salad;  Nut 
Muffins  (without  eggs);  Prunes  Stuffed  with  Nuts;  Chestnuts  with  Brown  Sauce;  Chestnuts 
en  Casserole;  Stewed  Chestnuts;  Chestnut  Puree. 

Corn — Corn  Pudding;  Corn,  Tomato  and  Cheese;  Corn  Mock  Oysters;  Corn  Fritters. 

Peppers — Huntington  Stuffed  Peppers;  Stuffed  Peppers;  Pepper  Timbale;  Eggplant 
Baked  in  Shell;  Vegetable  Hash;  Stuffed  Spanish  Onions. 

Sauces — White  Sauce;  Tomato  Sauce;  Brown  Sauce;  Lemon  Sauce;  Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Lentils — Curried  Lentils;  Lentils  and  Rice;  Lentil  and  Rice  Croquettes;  Louisiana  Len- 
tils; Buttered  Lentils;  Lentil  Gravy  and  Rice;  Lentils  as  a  Side  Dish;  Lentil  Cakes;  Lentil 
Croquettes;   Mashed  Lentils;  Fried  Lentils;   Lentil  Pancakes;  Lentil  Salad. 

Potatoes — Potatoes  au  Gratin;  Scalloped  Potatoes;  German  Potato  Salad;  Potato 
and  Nut  Salad;  Potato  and  Egg  Salad;  Potato  Custard;  Potato  Souffle;  Potato  Croquettes; 
Potato  Salad. 


CLASS  2— MEATS— SUBSTITUTES  I  35 

Cabbage — Creamed  Boiled  Cabbage;  Cabbage  with  Cheese;  Stuffed  Cabbage;  Cab- 
bage Rolls. 

Tomatoes — Stuffed  Tomatoes;   Curried  Tomatoes;  Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Eggs — Eggs  a  la  Suisse;  Eggs  Susette;  Egg  Croquettes;  Cheese  Omelet;  Bread  Ome- 
let; Creamed  Cheese  and  Eggs;  Eggs  a  la  Livingston;  Eggs  Baked  in  Tomatoes;  Poached 
Eggs  in  Tomato;   Eggs  au   Gratin. 

Soups — Cream  of  Potato  Soup;  Cream  of  Tomato  Soup ;  Cream  of  Pea  Soup ;  Cream 
of  Cauliflower  Soup;  Cream  of  Carrot  Soup;  Cream  of  Cabbage  Soup;  Cream  of  Rice  Soup; 
Cream  of  Green  Peas;  Cream  of  Asparagus;  Cream  of  String  Beans;  Cream  of  Spinach; 
Cream  of  Corn;  Cream  of  Celery;  Potato  Chowder;  Corn  Chowder;  Egg  Soup;  Black  Bean 
Soup;  Baked  Bean  Soup;  Lentil  Puree;  Chestnut  Soup;  Cheese  Soup;  Split  Pea  or  Bean 
Soup;  Lentil  Soup;  Cream  of  Lentil  Soup. 

Macaroni,  Spaghetti  and  Noodles — Baked  Macaroni;  Macaroni  Baked  with  Toma- 
toes; Macaroni  a  la  Italienne;  Macaroni  with  Brown  Sauce;  Macaroni  Croquettes;  Macaroni 
Timbale;  Spaghetti  with  Tomato  Sauce;   Noodles. 

Cheese — Cheese  Relish;  Cheese  Fondue;  Cheese  Dreams;  Cheese  Souffle;  Cheese 
Custard;  Cheese  with  Red  Peppers;  Cream  Toast  with  Cheese;  White  Sauce;  Cheese  and 
Tomato  Rarebit;  Cheese  with  Tomato. 

Cereals — Cereal  with  Fruit;  Oatmeal  Mush  with  Apples;  Oatmeal  Muffins;  Raised 
Oatmeal  Muffins;  Raised  Hominy  Muffins. 


SKIM-MILK  VERSUS  BEEF 

Skim-Milk  is  a  very  economical  food  material  and  might  well  be  more 
largely  used  for  human  food — this  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  it  is  nine-tenths  water. 
The  experts  in  the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  strongly  urge  a  wider 
use  of  skim-milk  for  food.  It  carries  an  argument  for  economy,  based  on  the 
price  at  which  it  is  usually  sold  and  the  composition  of  the  nutritive  tenth  of  its 
contents. 

Whole  Milk  is  an  indispensable  food  for  the  young,  and  even  in  the  diet 
of  the  adult  it  is  comparatively  economical.  The  only  nourishing  material  taken 
from  it  in  skimming  is  the  butter  fat.  There  is  left,  therefore,  in  the  skim-milk, 
not  only  all  of  the  sugar,  which  amounts  to  about  four  and  a  half  parts  in  every 
hundred,  and  all  of  the  mineral  substances,  but  also  all  of  the  protein.  The  last 
named  substance  is  important  because,  besides  serving  as  food  for  the  body  as 
fats,  sugars  and  starches  do,  it  also  supplies  tissue-building  material.  The  pro- 
portion of  protein  in  skim-milk,  as  well  as  of  the  mineral  constituents,  which  are 
also  valuable  for  body  building,  is  even  greater  in  whole  milk. 

Skim-Milk  is  to  be  classed,  as  whole  milk  is,  with  such  food  materials  as 
eggs,  meat,  fish,  poultry  and  cheese  (though  it  is  much  more  delicate  than  those 
foods)  rather  than  with  such  substances  as  sugar,  which  serve  only  as  fuel.  Two 
and  a  half  quarts  of  skim-milk  contain  almost  as  much  protein  and  yield  about  the 
same  amount  of  energy  as  a  pound  of  round  of  beef. 

When  skim-milk  sells  for  four  cents  a  quart,  or  about  two  cents  a  pound, 
and  round  of  beef  for  twenty  cents  a  pound,  a  dime  or  any  other  sum  of  money 
spent  for  skim-milk  will  provide  nearly  twice  as  much  nourishment  as  it  will  if 
spent  for  round  steak. 


INSTEAD  OF  MEAT 

(U.  S.  Food  Administration  Bulletin  Food  Leaflet  No.  8) 
CHEESE,  MILK,  EGGS,  BEANS,  PEAS,  NUTS,  CEREALS 

These  make  appetizing  dishes  to  take  the  place  of  meat.  Why  not  use 
them  oftener?     There  are  plenty  of  good  ways  of  cooking  them. 

They  give  you  a  body-building  material,  the  protein,  and  they  give  a  lot 
of  it. 

The  child  to  grow  must  have  food  that  furnishes  this  kind  of  material. 
You  need  it  too.  Even  if  you  are  grown  up,  you  must  have  it  to  renew  parts  of 
your  body  used  up  by  work  and  exercise. 

Don't  think  you  have  to  eat  meat  to  get  this  protein.  These  other  foods 
have  it,  too.  Take  cottage  cheese,  for  example.  It  is  richer  in  this  material  than 
meat.  You  can  eat  a  third  of  a  cup  of  it  with  pleasure,  and  this  third  of  a  cup 
will  give  you  as  much  of  the  protein  as  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sirloin  steak — 
a  good,  generous  serving.  Or  if  you  like  baked  beans,  eat  a  cupful  to  give  you 
the  same  amount  of  protein. 

PEAS,  BEANS,  PEANUTS,  CEREALS 

These  are  cheaper  than  meats  and  good.  They  should  be  used,  but  eat 
some  milk  or  cheese  besides. 

CHEESE,  MILK,  EGGS,  MEAT 

These  give  body-building  material  in  a  little  better  form  than  the  plant 
foods  do. 

Cheese  is  a  Fine  Meat-Saver.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  food  in  a  little  piece 
of  it.  Don't  eat  it  at  the  end  of  a  meal  when  you  have  already  had  enough.  You 
would  not  eat  a  piece  of  meat  then.  An  inch  cube  of  American  cheese  contains 
a  third  more  protein  than  the  same  sized  piece  of  lean  meat.  Cheese  is  excellent 
food  if  eaten  at  the  right  time. 

Get  the  Farmers'  Bulletin  on  Cheese,  No.  487,  to  learn  how  to  use  it  in 
many  ways. 

USE  THESE  GOOD  MEAT-SAVERS 

Cottage  Cheese  is  a  delicious  and  easy  dish.  You  can  buy  it  from  almost 
any  milkman  or  you  can  make  it  yourself.  Add  salt  and  pepper  before  eating, 
and  if  you  prefer  it  more  moist,  stir  in  a  little  milk.  It  is  good,  too,  served  with 
applebutter,  or  a  bit  of  jelly.  While  this  is  more  of  a  dessert,  it  can  still  lessen 
the  amount  of  meat  you  eat. 

To  make  cottage  cheese,  warm  sour  milk,  whole  or  skimmed,  on  the  back 
of  the  stove,  or  put  a  bowl  of  it  in  a  pan  of  hot,  not  boiling,  water  for  about  20 
minutes.  Stir  occasionally.  When  the  curd  and  whey  have  separated,  pour  off 
the  whey  through  a  sieve.  Work  the  curd  with  a  spoon  and  let  it  drain.  When 
fairly  dry  work  again  until  smooth.     The  whey  is  good  to  use  in  making  bread. 

Nuts  are  concentrated  foods,  too.  Twenty  single  peanuts  are  about  the 
same  as  the  inch  cube  of  cheese.  Remember  that  nuts  are  good  food.  Chew 
them  thoroughly  or  grind  them  up  for  a  cooked  dish  and  eat  them  as  an  important 
part  of  your  meal. 

136 


CLASS  3— BEEF— RECIPES  137 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


1  38        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


UIIIIMIIMIIIIIIimillllllllllillllHMniMIDIIIIIEMIMIItllllIIMIIIIIIMIMIIIII!IIIIIMIIIIHIIIMIiniElllllllllllli.lllllinilllll!IIIU 


|  |  CLASS  3 

H'lIEIllIIIIIIIIIIEimilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllEtBEIIIIlIIIlllIIIIIIIIIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIUIII  iTTl  IIIllllIIIIIIIlll'^ 

Tender  cuts  of  meat  are  best  broiled,  roasted  or  baked  to  keep  in  the  juices 
and  develop  the  flavor.  The  tougher  cuts  are  more  nutritious  if  cooked  properly. 
They  should  be  braised,  boiled,  stewed,  or  treated  to  tender  in  a  dressing  of  olive 
oil,  onion  juice,  lemon  parsley,  bay  leaf,   for  from  1  hour  to  1  2  or  24  hours. 


Pot  Roast  (Boiled  Beef) — Select  about  4  lb». 
from  rump,  round,  or  brisket.  Wipe  meat,  brown 
quickly  in  hot  tried-out  beef  auet.  Add  boiling 
water  to  half  cover.  Bring  to  boil,  coyer  pot, 
simmer  1 5  minutes  to  each  pound  till  very  tender. 
After  first  half-hour,  add  salt  and  pepper. 

For  pot  roast  with  onions,  fry  1  large  sliced 
onion  I  minute  in  hot  suet,  remove,  sear  meat 
in  suet,  put  onions  on  top  meat,  add,  sliced,  I 
turnip,  1  carrot,  cupful  canned  tomatoes,  salt, 
pepper,  water  to  cover  vegetables.  Close  pot 
tight,  simmer  2  hours.  When  meat  is  tender, 
remove,  skim,  press  gravy  through  colander, 
thicken  and  season — pour  some  hot  over  roast, 
serve   rest   of   gravy   separate. 

Roast  Beef — A  rolled  roast  has  ribs  removed, 
meat  rolled  and  tied.  A  standing  roast  has  ribs 
left  in. 

Wipe  meat  with  damp  cloth  or  scrape.  Do  not 
wash.  Do  not  salt  until  partly  done.  Sear  out- 
side quickly  with  a  dash  of  boiling  water  or  in  hot 
oven.  Then  lower  gas  and  cook  for  a  rare  roast 
10  minutes  to  each  lb.,  basting  every  15  minutes 
with  meat  juice,  water,  or  cook  in  a  self-basting 
roaster.  1 5  minutes  before  roast  is  done,  dredge 
with  butter,  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Use  the  juice 
from  meat  plain  for  gravy.  Garnish  with  horse- 
radish,   parsley    and    Yorkshire    pudding. 

Make  the  pudding  20  minutes  before  roast  is 
done.  Mix  1  Yl  cups  flour,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  1  teasp. 
baking  powder.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  with  1  Yl  cups 
milk  to  the  flour,  beat.  Pour  into  a  hot  pan 
greased  with  beef  drippings.  When  batter  is 
about  to  brown,  baste  with  hot  drippings.  Brown, 
cut   into   squares,    serve  with   roast. 

Beef  a  la  Mode — Take  several  lbs.  from  under 
part  of  the  round.  Wipe,  spread  with  lemon 
juice  and  oil.  Put  in  ice  box  several  hours.  Re- 
move, make  sharp  incisions  through  the  meat, 
stuff  with  a  mixture  of  seasoned  bread  crumbs, 
minced  fat  pork.  Lay  strips  of  fat  pork  on  top, 
dredge  with  flour,  tie  to  keep  in  shape.  Cover 
meat  in  pot  with  minced  I  onion,  carrot,  turnip, 
few  mixed  herbs.  Simmer  tight  closed  about  4 
hours.  Skim  fat  from  gravy,  season,  thicken,  stir, 
serve   on   roast. 


Braised  Beef — This  may  be  cooked  without 
water  in  a  baking  dish  on  a  bed  of  vegetables. 
Partly  cook  2  large  onions  sliced  in  fat.  On  these 
lay  small  pieces  of  I  carrot,  1  turnip,  3  stalks 
celery,  salt,  pepper,  small  bag  of  6  mixed  spices. 
Dredge  2  lb.  piece  of  meat  with  flour,  place  it 
on  top  of  vegetables.  Cover.  Cook  slowly  as 
possible    2    hours. 

When  time  to  remove  the  meat,  and  vegetables, 
they  will  have  made  a  gravy  of  their  own  juices. 
Serve   these   around   the   meat  on  a   hot  platter. 

Baked  Heart — Cut  away  tough  veins  from  a 
calf's  heart,  wash,  soak  in  salted  water  Yl  hour. 
Stuff  with  forcemeat  made  of  I  cup  soaked  stale 
bread  or  bread  crumbs,  I  cup  chopped  salt  pork, 
Yi  teasp.  salt,  pepper,  1  tbsp.  melted  butter  or 
drippings,  chopped  half  onion,  2  tbsp.  water;  t 
egg  beaten  into  forcemeat  improves  it.  Stuff  the 
heart,  bake  in  slow  oven,  baste  often  with  beef 
stock  or  hot  water  and  drippings.  Serve  in  its 
own  gravy.  Garnish  with  pickled  beets,  sprigs  of 
parsley    or    watercress. 

Braised  Beef  Tongue — Take  a  fresh  tongue  and 
boil;  that  is,  wipe,  cover  in  pot  with  boiling  water, 
simmer  2  hours.  Remove  skin  and  roots  when 
done.  Place  in  braising  pan  with  2  tbsp.  each 
diced  carrot,  onion,  celery,  I  teasp.  parsley.  Half 
cover   with   water    tongue    was    boiled   in. 

Cook  2  hours.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  gravy  by 
adding  2  tbsp.  butter  rolled  in  1  tbsp.  flour  sea- 
soned with  Yl  °up  tomato  juice,  salt,  paprika,  Yl 
teasp.    Worcestershire    sauce. 

Pour  sauce  around  tongue  on  hot  platter  and 
serve.  Mushrooms  with  a  little  lemon  juice  added 
to    sauce    improves    its    flavor. 

Beefsteak  Broiled — Wipe  and  trim  steak,  place 
on  a  greased  hot  broiler  under  a  flame.  Sear  all 
surfaces  by  turning  several  times  for  first  minute. 
Cook  a  thick  steak  6  minutes  to  be  rare,  8  min- 
utes well  done.  Dish  up  on  hot  platter.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Serve  at  once  so, 
or  with  a  prepared  mushroom  or  brown  sauce. 

Smothered  Beef  with  Macaroni — Cut  2  lbs. 
meat  into  neat  pieces,  sear  on  all  sides  in  hot  fat, 
dredge  with  flour,  cover  with  boiling  water,  sim- 
mer   until    nearly    done    in    closed    pot.       Then    add 


139 


1 40       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


3  small  potatoes,  halved,  1  piece  onion,  Yl  teasp. 
•alt,  pepper;  cook.  The  last  5  minutes  add  2 
cups  boiled  salted  macaroni.  Simmer.  Remove 
meat  and  thick  part  to  deep  closed  dish.  Thicken 
gravy,  1  tbsp.  flour  in  1  tbsp.  butter.  Stir  smooth, 
pour  over  contents   of  dish.      Serve. 

Beef  Stew — Cut  2  lbs.  beef  from  round  into  I 
inch  cubes  and  cook  as  for  smothered  beef,  ex- 
cept instead  of  macaroni,  add  I  carrot,  I  turnip, 
2  potatoes,  parsley,  I  tomato,  2  tbsp.  cooked 
kidney  beans.  Serve  with  the  thickened  gravy 
poured   over. 

Hamburg  Roast  (en  Casserole) — To  I  lb.  Ham- 
burg steak  (chopped  raw  beef)  add  I  tbsp. 
minced  celery,  Yl  cup  bread  crumbs,  Yl  teasp. 
minced  green  peppers,  1  teasp.  minced  onion,  Yl 
teasp.  salt,  black  and  red  pepper,  few  grains,  I 
tbsp.    melted   butter   or   suet. 

Mix  well,  shape  into  long  loaf,  place  in  center 
of  casserole  dish.  Arrange  around  the  loaf  any 
sliced  vegetables  convenient.  Cover  bottom  of  pan 
with  water  1  inch.  Close  tight,  simmer  2  J/2 
hours,  or  bake  in  very  slow  even.  Season  gravy 
when  nearly  done.  Remove  meat  to  brown  in 
oven.  Thicken  gravy  with  butter  and  flour  and 
Yl  quantity  of  cooked  strained  tomato  juice.  Sim- 
mer until  smooth  and  thick  as  puree.  Dish  meat 
loaf  with  vegetables  around  it.  Serve  sauce  over 
individual    slices    of    the    roast. 

Hash — The  richest  flavored  hash  is  made  of 
pieces  from  sides  of  roast  beef,  mutton,  veal, 
chicken,  or  steak,  or  a  good  stew.  Mix  minced 
meat  with  gravy,  a  little  fat,  Yl  quantity  cooked 
potatoes,  salt,  pepper.  Either  pack  in  hot  greased 
skillet  until  brown,  fold  and  turn  out  on  hot  dish 
and  serve,  or  simmer  down  in  broth  and  thicken 
until  creamy  with  I  tbsp.  flour  in  I  tbsp.  butter. 
Serve  with  toasted  crackers,  toast,  or  thin  hot 
buttered    biscuit. 

Delmonico  Hash  —  Lightly  brown  1  minced 
onion  in  frying  pan  with  2  tbsp.  butter.  Stir  in 
I  lb.  chopped  raw  beef  until  brown.  Add  slowly 
Yl  cup  hot  water,  then  6  cold  boiled  potatoes 
chopped,  I  teasp.  celery  salt,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  pap- 
rika. Stir  and  cook  3  minutes,  serve,  garnish 
with   parsley. 

Meat  Pie — Take  1  lb.  beef  ground  or  cut  in  Yl 
inch  cubes,  dredge  with  flour,  sear  in  hot  pan, 
add  Yl  lb-  ground  fresh  pork,  2  small  onions,  2 
potatoes,  chopped.  Place  in  layers  in  baking 
dish.  Salt  and  pepper  each  layer.  Pour  hot 
water  over.  Cover  with  pie  crust.  Make  an  in- 
cision with  fork  in  center  of  crust  to  let  steam 
escape.       Bake    2    hours. 


Creamed  Fresh  Beef — Chop  1  lb.  round  steak 
as  for  Hamburg.  Turn  it  over  with  fork  in  hot 
pan.  Stir  1  tbsp.  butter,  I  tbsp.  flour  into  meat 
until  flour  browns.  Add  1  cup  rich  milk.  Sim- 
mer few  minutes,  salt,  pepper.  Serve  with  hot 
toast. 

Minced  Beef,  Curried — Brown  Yl  CUP  sliced 
onion  in  I  tbsp.  drippings.  Remove  onions  to 
be  arranged  on  top  meat  when  served.  In  same 
pan  mix  Yl  CUP  minced  onion,  I  tbsp.  curry 
powder,  1  teasp.  salt,  2  lbs.  round  beef  minced 
-  or  from  a  roast.  Add  2  cups  milk  or  stock,  sim- 
mer slowly  1  or  more  hours.  Stir  often.  Serve 
with  sliced  onions  on  top,  and  hot  rioe  in  sep- 
arate  dish. 

Tripe — Simmer  until  tender  in  water  to  which 
vinegar  is  added.  Dry  on  cloth.  Cut  in  pieces, 
roll  in  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  then  in  egg,  cracker 
crumbs.      Fry   in  deep  hot   fat,   drain.      Serve. 

Chili  Con  Carne — Brown  I  lb.  ground  round 
steak  in  2  tbsp.  tried-out  suet.  Cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  simmer  till  tender.  Add  1  teasp.  salt, 
I  tbsp.  chili  powder,  1  onion  chopped,  I  small 
can  of  kidney  beans,  I  large  can  tomatoes.  Sim- 
mer down  until  all  are  thoroughly  blended  and 
thickened,  but  beans  unbroken.  Serve  hot  with 
rice. 

Smoked  Beef  and  Potatoes — Pare  four  big  po- 
tatoes, cut  in  ^-inch  pieces,  add  Ya  °f  a  chopped 
green  pepper.  Cover  with  water  (boiling)  cook 
1 5  minutes.  Tear  Yl  lb.  smoked  beef  into  small 
pieces,  cook  in  with  potatoes  and  peppers  3 
minutes.  Drain.  Blend  I  tbsp.  flour  with  2  tbsp. 
butter.  Stir  into  2  cups  seasoned  hot  milk  until 
smooth.  Add  this  to  drained  meat  and  potatoes. 
Simmer   2    minutes.      Serve. 

Chopped  Frizzled  Beef — Pick  apart  into  small 
pieces  Yl  lb.  dried  beef.  Add  this  to  2  tbsp. 
butter  in  hot  skillet  then  I  tbsp.  flour.  When 
flour  looks  brown  add  slowly  2  cups  milk,  little 
pepper.  Cook  until  creamy.  Add  beaten  egg  if 
desired.     Serve  on  hot  toast. 

Corned  Beef  Boiled — Select  4  lb.  lean  beef 
streaked  with  fat.  Soak  in  cold  water  1  hour. 
Put  on  in  cold  water  to  cover  and  I  tbsp.  vinegar. 
Cover,  cook  slowly  to  boiling,  simmer  I  Yl  hours. 
Let  stand  in  liquor  Yl  hour,  remove,  serve  with 
horse-radish    and    mustard    or    pickles. 

Corned  Beef  Hash — To  diced  cold  corned  beef 
use  Yl  quantity  firm  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Wet  with  stock  or  milk.  Turn  carefully 
into  skillet  with  I  small  chopped  onion  fried  in 
fat  from  corned  beef.  Simmer  until  liquor  is  ab- 
sorbed.     Brown   and   fold   as  an   omelet. 


l!llllll!IIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMI!lll!lillllllli::illlllllllllllIIIU: 


CLASS  4 


I  Mutton  and  Lam6 


rilllllllllllllllllTllliilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnllllllillllllMIl? 

MUTTON  AND  ITS  VALUE  IN  THE  DIET 

(From  U.  S.  Farmers*  Bulletin,  No.  526) 

Mutton  has  from  early  times  been  a  popular  food  both  in  the  Orient  and 
among  western  nations.  The  ease  with  which  the  sheep  is  raised  and  the  fact 
that  its  flesh  is  not,  like  some  other  meats,  excluded  on  religious  grounds  from 
the  dietary  of  any  large  group  of  people,  combine  with  its  palatability  to  bring  it 
into  widespread  favor.  The  terms  "lamb"  and  "mutton"  are  somewhat  loosely 
used  to  designate  the  meat  obtained  from  the  younger  and  older  animals.  In 
some  localities  mutton  is  used  to  apply  to  the  flesh  of  all  but  young  lambs;  in  others 
its  use  is  limited  to  the  flesh  of  full-grown  sheep.  The  latter  is  perhaps  the  common- 
est usage  in  the  United  States. 

The  general  belief  that  mutton  and  lamb  are  wholesome  has  been  strength- 
ened recently  by  such  work  as  that  of  the  United  States  Department  of  Agri- 
culture whose  reports  of  meat  inspection  show  that  it  has  been  necessary  to  reject 
relatively  few  mutton  carcasses  as  unfit  for  food,  and  that  the  sheep  is  particularly 
free  from  diseases  which  render  meat  undesirable. 


COMPOSITION  AND  NUTRITIVE  VALUE 

The  term  "mutton"  is  here  used  to  apply  to 
the  flesh  of  a  sheep  one  year  or  more  old.  Such 
meat  differs  in  composition  from  the  flesh  of  a 
lamb  very  much  as  meat  of  any  other  mature 
animal  differs  from  that  of  a  young  animal  of  the 
same  kind,  as  beef  differs  from  veal,  for  example, 
or  fowl  from  chicken,  i.e.,  it  has,  in  general,  a 
smaller  percentage  of  water  and  larger  percen- 
tages of  fat,  protein,  and  extractives  or  flavoring 
substances.  Pound  for  pound,  mutton  has  a 
larger  amount  of  tissue-forming  substances  and  a 
higher   energy  value  than  Iamb. 

So  far  as  nutritive  value  is  concerned,  mutton 
is  usually  classed  with  beef.  Analyses  show  that 
they  have  nearly  the  same  composition.  The  per- 
centage of  waste  differs  very  slightly  in  the  two, 
being  on  the  average  a  little  less  than  20  per 
cent,  in  each.  In  the  edible  portion  the  percen- 
tage of  protein  is  practically  the  same;  it  aver- 
ages about  18  per  cent,  in  the  beef  and  16  per 
cent,  in  the  mutton.  It  is  only  when  the  fat  is 
considered  that  any  considerable  difference  is 
noted.  This  averages  about  20  per  cent,  of  the 
edible  portion  in  medium  fat  beef  and  a  little  over 
30  per  cent,  in  the  corresponding  kind  of  mutton. 
As  might  be  expected,  water  is  correspondingly 
low    in    the    mutton    and    high    in    the    beef,    being 


about  six-tenths,  or  60  per  cent.,  of  the  total  in 
the  beef  and  about  five-tenths,  or  50  per  cent., 
of  the  total  in  the  mutton.  Because  of  the  larger 
amount  of  fat,  the  fuel  or  energy  value  is  greater 
in  mutton  than  in  beef,  being  usually  stated  as 
1,500  calories  per  pound,  while  that  of  beef  is 
given  as  about  1,145  calories.  The  fact  should 
be  kept  in  mind,  however,  that  these  figures  refer 
to  the  average  of  many  samples  of  the  two  kinds 
of  meat.  The  variations  in  different  samples  of 
either  meat  are  wider  than  the  differences  between 
these  average  values,  and  for  this  reason  the  cus- 
tom of  classing  beef  and  mutton  together  when 
their  nutritive  values  are  concerned  may  be  con- 
sidered   fair. 

RELATIVE  ECONOMY  IN  THE  USE  OF 
MUTTON 

While  mutton  and  beef  do  not  differ  materially 
in  percentage  composition  or  digestibility,  mutton 
has  an  advantage  in  that  it  is  capable  of  some- 
what more  economical  use.  The  mutton  carcass, 
unlike  the  beef  carcass,  is  of  such  size  that  a 
quarter  or  a  half,  either  of  which  supplies  a 
variety  of  cuts,  can  be  conveniently  utilized  in  a 
household  of  moderate  size  with  ordinary  refrig- 
erating facilities,  and  the  price  per  pound  is  com- 
monly less  when  the  meat  is  bought  in  this  way. 
There   is  a   certain  advantage,   too,   in  the  fact  that 


141 


1 42        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


the  leg,  which  has  the  smallest  percentage  of 
waste  of  any  of  the  cuts  of  mutton,  is  of  suitable 
size  for  family  use,  for  a  piece  of  meat  which 
has  not  been  cut  up  keeps  better  than  one  which 
has  been  cut.  On  the  other  hand,  the  rather  gen- 
eral belief,  which,  however,  seems  unfounded,  that 
all  kinds  of  mutton  fat  are  unsuitable  for  culinary 
purposes,  has  tended  somewhat  to  an  uneconomi- 
cal use  of  this  meat. 

CARE  OF  MUTTON  IN  THE  HOME 

Because  of  the  facility  with  which  mutton  ab- 
sorbs odors  and  flavors,  special  care  should  be 
taken  of  it  in  the  home.  When  it  comes  into  the 
house,  it  should  be  wiped  thoroughly  with  a  damp 
cloth,  and  all  portions  that  have  the  slightest  un- 
pleasant odor  about  them  should  be  cut  off.  Such 
portions  are  most  likely  to  be  found  where  the 
layer  of  meat  is  thin,  as,  for  example,  on  the 
lower  end  of  the  leg,  on  the  flank,  or  on  the 
ribs.  When  a  large  piece  of  mutton  is  bought, 
these  facts  should  be  kept  in  mind  in  determining 
which  parts  should  be  used  first.  It  is  well,  for 
example,  to   remove  the  flank  end   of  the  loin  and 


part  of  the  rib  bones  first,  and  use  them  for  soups 
or  stews.  The  removal  of  the  membrane  and  the 
red  skin  from  the  surface  of  the  meat  before  it 
is  cooked  is  also  desirable.  In  roasting  mutton, 
many  housekeepers  believe  that  it  is  well  to  keep 
the  meat  well  up  from  the  pan  by  means  of  a 
rack,  for  if  this  is  not  done,  the  fat  of  the  meat 
is  likely  to  become  scorched  and  to  affect  the 
flavor    of  the   meat   itself. 

JUDGING  MUTTON 
There  are  a  number  of  points  which  should 
be  borne  in  mind  when  purchasing  mutton  for  the 
table.  The  lean  portion  of  the  meat  should  be 
firm,  finely  grained,  and  of  a  deep  red  color.  The 
fat  should  be  well  distributed.  The  leg  should 
be  nearly  covered  with  a  layer  of  fat  and  there 
should  also  be  a  thick  layer  over  the  back.  This 
outside  layer  is  often  in  the  trade  referred  to  as 
the  "covering."  The  fat  itself  should  be  white, 
hard,  brittle,  and  flaky.  The  "mottling"  of  the 
flesh  with  fat,  which  is  so  important  a  sign  of 
good  quality  in  beef,  is  considered  of  less  im- 
portance  in   judging   mutton. 


RECIPES 


Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton — Select  leg  weighing  6 
or  8  lbs.  with  fat  white  and  flaky.  Trim,  wipe 
off,  put  on  in  boiling  water,  boil  until  scum  rises, 
skim,  simmer  until  tender.  Season  with  1  teasp. 
salt,  when  nearly  done,  serve  with  caper  sauce. 
The  water  left  may  be  used  for  soup,  or  to  season 
meat    dishes    made    from    cold    mutton. 

Roast  Shoulder  of  Mutton — Have  butcher  re- 
move bone  and  trim,  put  these  in  cold  water,  and 
make  stock  for  soup  or  to  baste  roast.  Stuff 
shoulder  with  a  mixture  of  I  cup  bread  crumbs, 
1  tbsp.  melted  butter,  2  tbsp.  boiling  water,  Yl 
teasp.  grated  onion,  Ya  teasp.  salt,  pepper.  Add 
a  few  chopped  mushrooms  if  convenient.  Sew 
or  skewer  to  keep  dressing  in.  Place  in  hot  oven 
with  1  cup  water  in  roasting  pan.  Baste  often. 
In  half-hour  reduce  heat,  cook  2  hours.  Plain 
mutton  gravy  should  never  be  served.  Use  a 
meat  sauce.  Garnish  daintily  with  mushrooms  or 
parsley  or  forcemeat  balls.  Serve  dinner  vege- 
tables of  tomatoes,  string  beans,  green  peas,  or 
young  turnips      Pass   current  jelly. 

Leg  of  Lamb  Roasted — 1.  Plain — If  leg  of  lamb 
is  not  prepared  in  the  market  for  roasting,  peel 
off  membrane  (the  caul)  trim,  wipe  with  wet 
cloth.  If  a  self-basting  roasting  pan  is  used 
sprinkle  meat  and  pan  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
flour.  Put  in  hot  oven.  When  flour  is  browned 
fill  bottom  of  roaster  with  water.  Cover,  cook 
rapidly  30  minutes,  more  slowly  for  I  hour  longer. 
Remove,  cover,  brown  roast,  serve  with  mint 
sauce. 


2.  Stuffed — If  bone  is  removed,  stuff  as  for 
shoulder  of  mutton  and  roast.  Prepare  stuffing 
with  I  cup  bread  crumbs,  I  tbsp.  melted  butter, 
I  tbsp.  minced  parsley,  Yl  minced  onion,  Yi  teasp. 
paprika.  Add  I  dozen  raw  chopped  oysters  if 
liked. 

3.  Seasoned  with  Vegetable  Puree — To  an  8-lb. 
leg  of  lamb  prepared  for  plain  roasting  add  a 
cheesecloth  bag  of  the  following  minced  vege- 
tables: 1  small  onion,  turnip,  tomato,  carrot,  3 
celery  leaves,  1 0  small  mixed  spices,  pinch  -  of 
cayenne.  When  lamb  is  tender,  remove,  strain 
gravy  and  thicken  with  flour  browned  in  butter. 
Pour  this  over  roast  when  served.  Garnish  with 
sliced  hard-boiled  eggs.  A  sliced  cucumber  gar- 
nish is  nice  with  roast  lamb  with  potato  croquettes 
and    brown    gravy   and    cucumber   sauce. 

Stew  of  Lamb  with  Peas — Cut  2  lbs.  lean  stew 
lamb  into  cubes,  dredge  with  flour,  brown  quickly 
on  all  sides  in  2  tbsp.  hot  fat  with  I  sliced  onion. 
Add  1  cupful  stock  or  water,  cover,  stew  1  hour 
until  tender.  Turn  in  I  cupful  peas,  fresh  or 
canned,  and  4  mint  leaves.  Cover,  cook  gently 
few  minutes.  Remove  peas  before  they  break,  and 
the  meat.  Add  to  the  gravy  Yl  cupful  tomato 
puree,  thicken  if  needed  with  flour  browned  with 
butter,  simmer,  stir  till  smooth,  pour  over  the 
stew    and    peas. 

Lamb  Chop  Stew  (with  Vegetables  en  Casser- 
ole)— Take  6  lamb  chops,  trim  off  fat  and  skin. 
Sear  in  I  tbsp.  fat  with  I  minced  onion.  Arrange 
3   chops  on  tomato  slices  in  onion  fat  in  casserole. 


CLASS  4— MUTTON,  LAMB— RECIPES 


143 


Add  in  layers  2  parboiled  potatoes,  carrots,  tur- 
nips, diced;  3  remaining  chops,  sliced  tomatoes. 
Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs.  If  preferred,  omit 
tomatoes  and  add  peas  or  tomato  puree  to  the 
I  cup  of  seasoned  meat  stock  thickened  with  I 
tbsp.  flour  browned  in  I  teasp.  butter.  Pour  stock 
over  contents  of  casserole,  cover,  cook  slowly  I 
hour.      Serve   in   casserole. 

French  Loin  Chops — To  1  cup  freshly  boiled 
mashed  potatoes,  seasoned,  add  1  beaten  egg,  Yl 
cup  minced  ham.  Broil  4  to  6  Iamb  chops,  salt 
and  pepper  and  spread  one  side  of  chop  with 
potato  mixture.  Dip  potato  covered  chop  into 
beaten  egg,  bread  crumb,  and  fry  in  hot  lard 
to  cover.  Remove  when  brown,  serve  on  platter 
around    boiled    green    string    beans. 

Creamed     Lamb— Cut     cold     cooked    lamb    into 


dice,  add  with  I  cup  green  peas  to  a  hot  cream 
sauce  previously  made  of  2  tbsp.  butter,  2  tbsp. 
flour,  Y$  teasp.  salt  and  pepper,  2  minced  mint 
leaves,  Yl  CUP  cream,  Yl  cup  water.  Stir  care- 
fully without  mashing  peas  while  it  simmers  3 
minutes.      Serve    on   toast. 

Pie  of  Curried  Mutton — Fill  a  small  casserole 
with  alternate  layers  of  bread  sauted  in  butter, 
thin  sliced  cold  mutton  or  lamb  chops  and  sliced 
tomatoes,  pepper,  salt.  Bake  slowly  about  30 
minutes. 

Or,  pour  over  sliced  mutton  and  bread  crumbs 
a  curry  sauce  made  of  I  chopped  onion,  1  green 
pepper,  I  tbsp.  flour,  I  tbsp.  butter,  Yl  teasp. 
curry  powder,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  1  cup  stock,  I  cup 
cooked  tomatoes.  Cover  with  pie  crust.  Make 
incision  with  fork  in  center.  Bake  20  minutes. 
Serve. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


1 44        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^JIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIIMIIIItllllllllllllllllllllllllllEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU 


CLASS  5 


ft  I 


HllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimilllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIli? 


VEAL  is  not  as  easily  digested  as  beef  and  is  less  nutritious,  but  because 
of  its  tenderness,  the  contrary  is  often  thought  the  case. 

For  determining  quality  of  good  veal,  see  article  on  "Choosing  Meats," 
under  section  on  MEATS. 

If  one  can  purchase  the  entire  fore-quarter  of  veal  he  may  secure  it  at  a 
very  low  price;  the  breast,  though  delicious  when  stuffed  and  braised,  is  little 
known  and  demanded.  The  fore-quarter  contains  the  ribs,  corresponding  to  the 
rib  roast  of  beef,  and  from  these  are  cut  the  best  chops,  the  entire  rack  of  veal, 
as  the  chops  are  known,  makes  a  roasting  equalled  only  by  the  loin  and  the  fillet. 
The  neck  of  the  veal  cuts  into  excellent  breakfast  cutlets.  The  flesh  portion  of 
the  foreleg,  or  shin,  make  pot  pies  or  stews,  and  the  leg  itself  makes  soup  or  stock. 


RECIPES 


Plain  Roast  Veal — Use  either  the  ribs  or  a  leg. 
Trim  and  wipe,  sear  all  sides  quickly  in  a  hot 
roaster.  Add  I  cup  boiling  water  to  pan.  Cover, 
roast  at  the  rate  of  20  minutes  to  each  lb.,  basting 
every  1 5  minutes.  Add  water  to  keep  pan  from 
getting  dry.  The  last  40  minutes  salt  and  pepper 
the  meat,  dust  with  flour,  put  in  around  it  peeled 
halved  sweet  potatoes.  When  about  done  remove 
cover,    brown    meat    and    potatoes. 

Shoulder  of  Veal — This  is  roasted  in  the  same 
manner  except  that  the  bone  is  removed  care- 
fully without  breaking  the  outer  skin  and  a  force- 
meat is  put  in  the  bone  cavity.  This  stuffing  may 
be  of  onions,  sliced,  seasoned,  and  an  equal  quantity 
of  bread  crumbs,  or  chopped  ham  and  bread  crumbs 
with  salt  and  pepper  or  tomato  seasoning.  Bake 
the  meat  until  the  gravy  shows  no  red  color.  Take 
up  the  meat.  Thicken  liquid  in  pan  with  I  tbsp. 
flour;  when  it  is  browned  add  boiling  water,  salt 
and  pepper,  stir  until  smooth.  Serve  this  gravy 
with  the  shoulder  of  veal  and  potatoes  that  have 
been  either  baked  brown  with  the  meat  or  roasted 
in   their   jackets. 

Filet  of  Veal — Stuff  the  hole  from  which  the 
bone  is  taken  with  a  forcemeat  of  Yl  cup  salt 
pork,  chopped,  I  cup  minced  ham,  1  cup  bread 
crumbs,  1  tbsp.  salt,  Yl  teasp.  pepper,  1  teasp. 
lemon  juice,  parsley,  2  tbsp.  gravy  or  fat.  Skewer 
the  filet  round.  Brown  surface  in  hot  oven,  salt 
and  pepper,  lay  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  on  top. 
Baste  with  water.  Roast  in  moderate  oven  sev- 
eral hours.  When  done  remove  slices  of  pork, 
dredge  with  flour  and  brown  uncovered.  While 
roast  is  browning  slice  tomatoes,  salt  and  flour 
them,      fry      quickly      in      hot     lard      or      cottolene. 


Make  gravy  of  1  cup  meat  gravy,  I  cup  tomato 
puree.  Garnish  roast  with  fried  tomato  slices  and 
serve  at  once,  and  send  in  tomato  puree  gravy 
seasoned  with  few  drops  of  tobasco  or  tomato 
catsup. 

Veal   Loaf This   may   be   made   as  beef  loaf,    or 

use  3  or  4  lbs.  of  meat,  Yl  of  which  is  veal,  Ya 
beef,  J/4  salt  pork.  Chop  all  fine,  mix  with  I 
minced  onion,  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice,  1  tbsp.  salt, 
Yl  teasp.  pepper,  3  tbsp.  crumbs,  1  egg.  4  tbsp. 
cream  or  gravy.  Shape  into  oblong  loaf,  bake 
slowly  about  2  hours,  baste  every  1 5  minutes. 
Carve  loaf  at  table;  serve  thin  slices  with  thick 
tomato  sauce  or  catsup;  or  spinach  and  rice;  or 
mashed    sweet    potatoes    and    gravy. 

Veal  Pot  Pie Take  2  cups  cooked  veal  chopped 

or  sliced  thin,  1  onion,  and  I  potato,  diced,  I  cup 
fat  pork  minced,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  few  grains  cay- 
enne. Moisten  well  with  gravy,  add  extra  cupful. 
Simmer  in  deep  meat  pie  pan  5  minutes.  Cover 
with  a  rich  biscuit  dough  crust,  perforated.  Bake 
in   moderate   oven   40    minutes. 

If  crust  is  not  desired  cover  meat  with  boiled 
rice  seasoned,  pour  over  it  1  cup  tomato  juice, 
garnish  with  halves  of  hard  boiled  eggs  half  im- 
bedded in  the  rice.  Dot  with  butter  and  crumbs. 
Bake     30     minutes.       Serve    in    baking    dish. 

Veal   Breast Breast   of   veal    may   be   boned   and 

stuffed;  or  spread  on  one  side  with  a  forcemeat, 
rolled  loosely  over  and  tied;  or  put  meat  in  a 
roaster  with  pork  strips  laid  over  and  under  it, 
add  1  cup  boiling  water,  cook  until  half  done,  then 
spread  with  2  chopped  onions,  parsley,  1  chopped 
green   pepper,    2    cups   peeled   and    sliced   tomatoes. 


145 


1 46        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Finish  cooking  covered.  Lift  cover  and  brown 
meat,  take  vegetables  out  with  strainer  and  serve 
around  the  meat  with  plain  boiled  rice  in  a  sep- 
arate  dish. 

The  tomatoes  in  the  spread  may  be  omitted, 
and  when  cover  is  lifted  to  brown  meat  drain  out 
the  gravy,  and  cover  veal  with  mashed  sweet  po- 
tatoes. These  will  brown  on  top.  Lift  meat  with 
potatoes  to  hot  platter.      Serve  with  spinach. 

Gelatine  of  Veal — Gelatine  is  meat  boned, 
stuffed,  rolled,  boiled  and  served  cold.  A  breast 
may  be  used.  Spread  with  a  rich,  well  seasoned 
forcemeat,  roll,  tie  up  in  cheesecloth.  In  a  pot 
prepare  bones,  trimming  and  seasoning  as  if  for 
soup.  Add  several  small  vegetables  convenient, 
carrot,  turnip  or  onion,  half  cover  with  water. 
When  this  boils,  add  stuffed  roast,  boil  up,  skim, 
then  simmer  until  meat  is  tender.  Cool  and 
press  the  veal  with  a  heavy  weight  for  several 
hours.      Serve    cold. 

Instead  of  breast  take  a  knuckle  of  veal.  Boil 
tender,  mince  the  meat,  add  it  to  the  juice,  pour  it 
into  a  mold.  While  cooling  add  slices  of  hard 
boiled    egg.      Serve    cold    from    the    ice    box. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Breaded — Be  sure  to  cook  veal 
thoroughly,  as  it  is  neither  wholesome  nor 
palatable  if  underdone.  Bread  the  cutlets  with 
fine  breadcrumbs,  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  crumbs.  If  not  firm,  set  on  ice  until 
fat  is  ready,  smoking  hot.  Drop  cutlets  in,  turn 
within  5  minutes,  then  cook  more  slowly  so  that 
the  outside  will  not  get  too  brown  before  inside 
is  done.  Drain  off  fat,  serve  at  once,  in  hot  dish. 
Sprinkle  horse-radish  on  each  cutlet,  or  serve 
with  tomato  sauce,  or  corn  muffins  and  apple 
sauce. 

Veal  Shortcake — Make  a  dough  of  2  cups  flour, 
2  teasp.  baking  powder,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  2  tbsp. 
lard,  1  cup  milk.  Roll  thin,  cut  into  2  squares. 
Dot  one  with  butter,  cover  with  the  other  square, 
bake   in    hot   oven. 

In  the  meantime  cream  diced  cold  veal  in  I 
cup  gravy  seasoned  and  thickened  with  flour  and 
cream.  When  shortcake  is  brown  separate  the 
cakes,  spread  creamed  veal  in  between  them  and 
on    top.      Serve    with    tart   jelly. 


Veal  Cutlets  Broiled — Trim  and  wipe  loin  cut- 
lets, turn  over  and  over  in  salad  oil  seasoned 
with  finely  chopped  green  peppers,  a  few  drops 
of  onion  juice  and  lemon.  Put  on  ice  in  the  oil 
mixture  1  hour.  Drain,  broil  in  hot  skillet  5 
minutes;  turn  lower  heat,  broil  5  minutes  or 
longer.      Serve   with   a   Spanish   sauce. 

Baked  Calf's  Liver — Remove  skin  from  calFs 
liver,  cut  deep  gashes  in  upper  side,  pour  boiling 
water  on  and  off  until  it  is  thoroughly  blanched. 
Spread  the  gashes  and  top  with  a  paste  of  mois- 
tened bread  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
parsley,  onion.  Lay  thin  slices  salt  pork  on  top. 
Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice.  Pour  1  cup  brown 
sauce  around  the  liver.  Cook  in  covered  cas- 
serole 2  hours.  Serve  with  small  sweet  potatoes 
fried   in   hot  fat. 

Broiled  Liver — Buy  it  sliced  for  broiling,  skin, 
blanch  I  minute  in  hot  water,  dry,  salt  and  pep- 
per, moisten  with  oil  and  lemon  juice,  sprinkle  fine 
cracker    crumbs   on   and   broil   until   done. 

Calf's  Brain — Place  in  cold  salted  water  as 
soon  as  received  from  market.  In  30  minutes 
peel  all  membranes  off,  wash,  and  parboil  in 
salted  water  1 5  minutes.  Plunge  into  cold  water, 
put  oh  ice  until  ready  to  prepare  for  the  meal. 
They   may  be: 

1.  Fried — Cut  in  pieces  size  of  a  small  oyster, 
dip  in  egg,  bread  crumbs.  Brown  quickly  in  hot 
lard,  drain,  serve  a  la  fried  oysters. 

2.  Scrambled — Chop  in  small  pieces,  stir  lightly 
into  beaten  eggs  seasoned.  Pour  into  greased 
hot  pan,  stir  until  eggs  are  soft  set.  Serve  on 
toast. 

3.  Creamed — Chop  brains  with  mushrooms,  and 
stir  into  a  thick  cream  sauce.  Blend  2  tbsp. 
flour,  1  tbsp.  butter,  and  I  Yl  cups  hot  milk  and 
cream,  season  '/4  teasp.  salt,  pepper.  Cook  brains 
and  mushrooms  and  sauce  together  until  smooth. 
Serve   in   patty   cases. 

4.  Baked  or  Larded — Slip  narrow  strips  of  salt 
pork  into  the  folds  of  2  pair  of  brains.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour.  Bake 
20  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Serve  with  green  peas 
and    cream   sauce. 


CLASS  5— VEAL— RECIPES  147 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


1 48       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Sweetbreads 


These  may  be  parboiled  and  prepared: 

( 1 )  As  brains,  in  any  of  the  ways  mentioned  for  brains ; 

(2)  Sliced  lengthwise,  dredged  with  salt,  pepper  and  oil  and  broiled  over 
hot  fire;  or 

(3)  Cooked  en  casserole — bake  slowly  1  hour,  with  sliced  carrot,  onion, 
butter  and  1  cup  stock.  Add  canned  peas  the  last  1 5  minutes.  Serve  with  sauce 
made  of  1  tbsp.  butter,  1  tbsp.  flour,  1  cup  stock,  1  minced  onion.  Simmer,  stir 
in  2  teasp.  cream,  yolk  1  egg,  strain,  add  1  teasp.  lemon  juice.  Pour  sauce  over 
sweetbreads  en  casserole. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


£JlllllllllllllllllllllllllliJIIIIIIIMIIIII!lllllMllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllll!IIIIIIIIIIMIII!ij 


CLASS  6 


TtlllllllllllllllllUllllMillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllE 


RECIPES 


Roast  Pork — Select  either  the  spare  ribs,  loin 
or  shin;  trim,  wipe  and  score  the  skin.  Force  into 
the  slits  a  mixture  of  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper, 
onion  juice  and  sage.  Put  in  hot  roasting  pan, 
dredge  with  flour,  brown  quickly,  then  cook 
slowly,  30  minutes  to  the  pound,  basting  every 
20   minutes. 

When  thoroughly  done,  remove  from  greasy 
liquor  and  serve  with  apple  sauce  or  baked 
apples. 

Pork  Chops  —  Take  either  chops  or  steaks. 
Sear  well  on  both  sides  in  a  hot  frying  pan,  drain 
off  any  fat.  Salt  and  pepper.  Finish  cooking 
slowly,  either  in  pan  or  hot  oven.  Serve  well 
done  with  fried  apples  or  brown  gravy  from  which 
all  fat  has  been  skimmed.  Thicken  gravy  and 
add  chopped  pickles  just  before  serving.  Pork 
chops  may  be  seared,  drained,  floured  and  baked 
30  minutes  with  layers  of  onions  and  canned 
tomatoes. 

Breakfast  Bacon — Slice  bacon  thin,  trim  off 
rind,  place  on  broiler  over  dripping  pan  in  hot 
oven,   watch  and   turn  until  crisp.      Serve  at  once. 

Ham — A  good  rule  to  remember  when  cook- 
ing whole  hams  in  any  way  is  to  heat  gradually, 
cook  slowly,   cool  in  liquor. 

Soak  a  ham  several  hours  in  cold  water,  scrape, 
trim  and  put  on  in  cold  water.  Bring  slowly  to 
boiling    point    within     I     hour,    simmer    gently    25 


minutes  to  each  lb.  When  tender,  put  aside  in 
liquor.  Cool,  peel  off  skin.  Dot  top  of  ham  with 
salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  on  bread  crumbs  and 
minced  onion.  Bake  I  hour  in  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  sweet  potatoes  baked  in  their  skins, 
or  stuffed  white  potatoes  and   apple   sauce. 

Ham  in  Slices — To  broil,  use  thin  slices  of 
smoked  ham,  soak  in  warm  water  20  minutes, 
wipe  dry,  broil  3  minutes.  Serve  at  once.  To 
bake  with  apples,  use  inch-thick  slices,  trim  off 
fat,  rub  sugar  into  the  lean,  lay  in  baking  pan 
with  slices  of  apples,  cloves,  sugar  and  a  little 
water.  To  2  lbs.  ham  take  6  apples.  Bake  45 
minutes. 

Scalloped  Ham — In  a  baking  dish  place  in  al- 
ternate layers  4  large  sliced  potatoes,  2  chopped 
carrots,  onion,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  and  2 
slices  of  ham  cut  into  4  pieces  each.  Pour  I 
pint   rich   milk   over,   bake   in   slow  oven. 

Ham  and  Potato  Pancake  —  Season  3  cups 
mashed  potato,  mix  with  [/£  cup  chopped  cooked 
ham,  2  tbsp.  bread  crumbs,  2  tbsp.  milk,  salt,  pep- 
per, parsley,  I  beaten  egg.  Pour  into  a  greased 
frying  pan.  Bake  covered  over  a  slow  fire,  until 
edges  look  brown.  Use  a  large  pancake  turner, 
lift  ham  carefully  and  flop  over  to  other  side. 
Cook  same  length  of  time.  Serve  at  a  home  sup- 
per  with   thin   hot   biscuit   and    tart   jelly. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


127 


1 5 0        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


yillllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIItllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimilllllllllllllllllllllllllU 

CLASS  7  1  I 


Poultry 


niilllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllII!!ni!l[|[!n[!!ni!!IIIIIIIIIilllI!!!lllll!l!!IMIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIEIIIIilIllllllllllllllllllllirr 


POULTRY  includes  turkey,  chicken,  duck,  etc. — generally  domestic  fowl. 
The  meat  of  poultry  is  not  so  nutritious  as  beef  and  mutton,  but  its  tenderness  and 
flavor  render  it  most  agreeable  as  a  change  in  the  usual  bill  of  fare. 


SELECTING    POULTRY 

When  selecting  a  chicken  in  the  average  market  you  cannot  always  know  the  history 
of  its  breeding  and  feeding  though  you  may  look  instinctively  for  the  plump  breast,  rounded 
legs  and  well-meated  back  of  the  fine,  well-fed  bird.  You  can  tell  by  other  signs  whether 
it  has  been  handled  from  the  barnyard  to  the  market  in  the  sanitary  and  skillful  manner 
which  keeps  a  good  chicken  sweet,  fresh  and  tender;  that  is,  whether  it  has  been  properly 
killed  and  well  bled,  chilled,  dry-picked  and  carefully  packed  in  cartons  under  refrigeration. 

Always  ask  for  the  dry-picked  chicken;  select  a  short,  plump,  fat  one,  if  possible. 
Its  skin  should  be  soft,  loose,  dry  and  unbroken,  and  the  breast  fat  yellow.  Scalding  a 
chicken  for  picking  removes  much  of  the  nutriment,  affects  the  flavor,  adds  water  to  its 
weight,  and  makes  it  less  liable  to  keep  well.  Avoid  a  bird  with  tightly  drawn,  shiny  skin 
and  legs  that  are  difficult  to  draw  back. 

If  the  dry-picked  fowl  you  have  selected  has  been  properly  bled  and  air-chilled  it 
will  be  of  an  even  yellow  or  white  color  over  the  entire  body,  not  with  discolored  neck 
or  red  blotches  on  the  wings  and  hips. 

The  carton-packed  are  placed  in  small  groups  in  boxes,  their  heads  wrapped  in 
parchment  paper.      They  are  not  packed  with   ice  in  a  barrel. 

These  special  signs  indicate  the  sanitary  treatment  of  the  chickens.  To  judge  age,  you 
must  know  that  an  old  hen  or  cock  has  a  coarse  head,  rough  skin,  rough  shanks  and  feet, 
heavy,  blunted  toe-nails,  rigid  breast-bone  and  long  hairs,  no  pin-feathers.  If  carefully 
cooked  they  are  suitable  for  chicken-pie,  the  casserole  and  the  fricassee. 

The  youth  and  tenderness  of  a  chicken  are  indicated  by  a  small  comb,  smooth 
shanks,    soft,    thin   skin,    easily  bent   breast-bone  and  the  presence  of  pin-feathers. 

Choose  spring  chicks  for  broiling;  a  fairly  young,  plump  one  for  roasting. 

A  young  turkey  should  have  plump,  pliable  breast-bone,  smooth,  dark  legs,  very  short 
spurs. 

Young  ducks  and  geese  not  more  than  a  year  old  have  firm,  plump  breasts,  the  fat 
is  soft  and  white,  the  wings  tender  and  the  skin  between  the  toes  tender. 

Young  pigeons  have  tender,  pink  legs  and  light  red  flesh  on  breast;  on  old  ones 
it  is  very  dark.  Squabs  are  young  tame  pigeons;  they  are  very  large,  but  are  soft  and 
plump   covered  with  pin-feathers. 

Grouse,  partridge  and  quail  should  have  plump  breasts,  dark  legs  and  yellowish  bills. 

Chicken  offers  20  per  cent  of  protein,  8  per  cent  of  fat  and  850  heat  units  per 
pound  and  compares  favorably  with  sirloin  steak  in  the  amount  of  digestible  nutrients  fur- 
nished. 

151 


1  52        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


TO  DRESS  AND 

Remove  pin  feathers,  singe  off  all  hairs.  Slit 
«kin  down  the  back  of  neck,  cut  neck  off  even 
with  body,  cut  skin  of  the  leg  below  knee-joint, 
lightly,  without  cutting  the  tendons,  break  the 
bone   with   a    sharp    rap   and   pull   off  the   foot. 

Make  an  incision  from  end  of  breast  bone  to 
tail.  Hold  the  fowl  steady,  reach  carefully  into 
the  body,  loosening  membranes  and  removing  the 
intestines  without  breaking  them.  Cut  out  of  this 
mass  the  giblets,  which  are  the  heart,  gizzard  and 
liver,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  green  gall- 
bag  near  the  liver.  Put  aside  the  giblets,  neck 
and   feet  for  soup  or  gravy. 

Through  the  neck  opening  remove  the  wind- 
pipe and  glands.  Allow  cold  water  to  run  through 
the  fowl,  wash  it  quickly  and  thoroughly  inside 
and   out.      Wipe   dry   and   truss. 

To  Stuff  a  Fowl,  force  the  dressing  through  the 
opening  below  the  breast  bone  and  the  one  near 
the  neck.  If  stuffed  too  tight,  bread  dressing  will 
be  soggy  and  crackers  will  swell  and  crack  the 
skin. 

To    Truss Bend    the    wings    close    to    the    body 

and      turn     under;     push     thighs     up     against  the 

breast.        Fold     the     skin     over     front     incision  and 

neck.  Skewer  the  wings,  thighs  and  skin  into 
place,    or   sew,    or    tie   with   twine. 

When  a  fowl  is  dressed,  cleaned,  trussed  and 
stuffed   it   is   ready   for  roasting  or  boiling. 


CLEAN  POULTRY 

To  Prepare  for  Broiling — Singe,  wipe,  cut  down 
from  neck  along  the  back  bone,  open,  remove 
insides,  wash,  wipe  dry,  skewer  wings  and  thighs 
close  to  body.  If  preferred,  cut  out  the  ribs  and 
remove    breastbone. 

To  Cut  Up  for  frying,  fricassee  or  boiling:  clean 
and  dress;  separate  legs  from  body  by  cutting 
skin  and  flesh  at  base  of  leg  and  disjoint.  Cut 
flesh  and  disjoint  upper  leg  or  second  joint  from 
lower  or  drum  stick.  Cut  wings  off  in  same 
manner.  Beginning  two  inches  below  breastbone 
make  an  incision  following  a  line  below  ribs  to 
collarbone;  disjoint.  Slice  off  the  wishbone  piece 
from  the  breast.  Divide  breastbone.  Cut  the 
back  in  two  pieces. 

To  Prepare  Giblets — Use  only  healthy  looking 
giblets.  The  liver  should  be  light  in  color.  Care- 
fully cut  away  from  it  the  green  gall  bladder  with- 
out breaking.  Remove  membranes  and  blood 
from  the  heart,  leaving  only  the  fleshy  part.  Re- 
move fat  from  gizzard,  cut  open,  peel  off  the  out- 
side muscle  from  the  inside  skin.  Wash  giblets, 
place  in  cold  water.  Cook  until  tender,  mines 
fine  and  add  to  the  gravy.  When  cooked  with 
neck  and  wing-tips  there  is  enough  stock  for 
gravjf. 

The  legs  of  a  young  fowl  make  as  nutritious 
jelly  as  calves'  feet.  Scald  legs  until  the  skin 
and  claws  will  peel  off.  Place  legs  in  cold  salted 
water  and   simmer  until  flesh  falls  from  bones. 


POULTRY 

Boiled  Chicken — An  old  fowl  will'do  for  boil- 
ing. Clean  according  to  directions;  rub  inside 
and  out  with  lemon  juice  to  make  the  meat  white, 
juicy  and  tender.  It  may  be  stuffed  with  a  poultry 
dressing  or  boiled  plain.  To  have  it  ke»p  its 
shape,  tie  up  close  in  a  cheese  cloth.  Plunge  in 
boiling  water  to  nearly  cover.  Simmer  gently,  20 
minutes  to  the  pound.  The  last  hour  add  salt  and 
tie  up  in  cheese  cloth  bag  Yz  CUP  washed  rice. 
The  bag  must  be  large  enough  to  allow  for  rice  to 
swell.  Put  in  with  chicken.  When  done,  lift 
chicken  out  of  bag  to  hot  platter,  garnish  with  a 
border  of  drained  rice.  Pour  over  it  some 
oyster  or  celery  sauce,  or  make  a  dressing  of 
parsley,  celery,  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  and 
added  to  a  pint  of  skimmed  gravy  from  the  boiling 
pot. 

Roast    Chicken — Prepare    a    3    to    5    lb.    chicken 

for  cooking,  rinse  inside  with  cold  soda  and  water, 
wipe,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lemon,  stuff 
with  a  dry  dressing  of  I  cup  dry  bread  crumbs, 
2  tbsp.  butter,  !4  teasp.  salt,  Yi  teasp.  pepper. 
If  onion  flavor  is  liked,  brown  one  small  onion 
minced  in  the  butter  before  stirring  in  the  crumbs, 
add     minced     parsley    if    desired,     or     sage.       Wet 


RECIPES 

dressing  is  made  by  moistening  with  1  /3  cup  milk 
When  chicken  is  stuffed,  rub  over  the  breast  and 
legs  a  paste  of  flour  and  butter  and  dust  bottom 
of  pan  with  flour.  Place  in  hot  oven.  When  flour 
is  brown,  baste  with  2  tbsp.  butter  in  Yz  CUP 
hot  water.  Lower  oven  heat,  cover  tight,  roast  I  5 
minutes  to  each  lb.  If  water  dries  out  in  pan, 
baste  with  more.  Serve  with  a  gravy  made  of 
the  thickened  chicken  broth  and  the  giblets  chopped 
fine. 

If  a  roasting  pan  is  used  it  is  not  necessary 
to  put  it  in  the  oven.  A  delicious  roast  is  the 
result  if  the  meat  or  fowl  is  put  in  roaster  with 
some  water  and  seasonings  and  set  on  top  of  the 
stove.  It  should  steam  slowly  until  tender.  If 
needed,  add  a  little  water  but  uncover  as  little 
as  possible.  The  meat  when  done  will  be  juicy 
and  well  flavored;  make  gravy  with  the  juice. 

Broiled  Chicken — Prepare  a  very  young  one, 
split  it  down  back,  wipe  inside  and  out,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper  and  salad  oil.  Place  on  broiler 
with  inside  uppermost  under  flame,  until  nearly 
brown.  Broil  12  minutes  to  the  lb.,  turning  often. 
Serve  breast  up  on  hot  platter  with  drawn  butter 
sauce  poured  over.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  water- 
cress. 


CLASS  7— POULTRY— RECIPES 


153 


Fried  Chicken  (Southern  Style) — A  tender 
spring  chicken  is  best  to  fry.  Clean  and  cut  it  up 
at  joints.  Lay  in  salt  water  5  minutes,  wipe  dry. 
Rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  egg  then 
flour.  Heat  fresh  bacon  fat,  brown  chicken  in  it, 
cover  the  skillet  and  cook  slowly  until  tender. 
Serve  the  crisp  brown  pieces  of  chicken  on  hot 
platter  with  broiled  bacon.  Make  a  cream  gravy 
with  1  tbsp.  flour  stirred  into  the  fat  left  in  skillet, 
add  1  cup  rich  milk  or  thin  cream.  When  gravy 
thickens,  serve  at  once  with  chicken,  cold  boiled 
ham,   boiled  rice  and  hot  corn-meal  muffins. 

Maryland  Chicken  (Baked) — Cut  up  a  chicken, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  flour  and  butter;  bake 
in  hot  oven  40  minutes  or  more,  basting  every  1  0 
minutes  with  2  tbsp.  melted  butter  in  J/£  cup  hot 
water.  When  tender,  lay  on  hot  boiled  rice  or 
hominy  served  on  hot  platter  with  sweet  potato 
or  turnip  balls.  Pour  over  the  chicken  a  sauce 
made  of  2  J/J  tbsp.  flour  stirred  into  the  fat  in 
pan,  J/J  cup  chicken  stock  and  thin  cream,  salt 
and   paprika. 

Brown  Fricassee  of  Chicken — Cut  up  a  large 
chicken,  wipe  dry,  roll  in  flour,  brown  in  hot 
fat,  place  in  casserole  and  pour  over  it  all  a 
thick  rich  gravy  made  with  what  was  left  in  brown- 
ing pan.  If  needed,  add  more  water  to  cover,  sea- 
son, simmer  till  tender  in  moderate  oven.  If  a 
more  savory  fricassee  is  wanted,  pack  in  the  cas- 
serole in  layers  with  the  chicken  either  ( I )  a 
mixture  of  J4  cup  minced  ham,  I  pimiento,  J/J 
teasp.  sage,  J/J  teasp.  summer  savory,  J/J  teasp. 
curry  powder,  pepper  and  salt;  or  (2)  a  vege- 
table fricassee  of  2  celery  stalks,  6  button  onions, 
J/£  cup  diced  carrot,  J/J  cup  diced  turnips,  2  bay 
leaves,    2    tbsp.    vinegar    or    lemon    juice. 

Chicken  a  la  Marengo — Select  a  young  chicken, 
cut  up  and  roll  in  corn-meal.  Fry  J/4  lb .  sliced 
salt  pork  and  in  the  drippings  brown  the  chicken. 
Remove  the  pieces  to  the  casserole  or  deep  pan. 
Put  a  minced  small  onion  in  the  browning  fat, 
add  2  tbsp.  flour  and  2  cups  boiling  water;  boil 
5  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  I  cup 
of  canned  tomatoes.  Strain  this  over  the  chicken, 
cover,  simmer  1 5  minutes.  Add  J/J  can  mush- 
rooms, simmer  1 0  minutes.  Serve  with  mashed 
potatoes  beaten  with  cream  and  butter  until  light 
and    fluffy. 

Chicken  a  la  King — To  2  tbsp.  butter  in  sauce- 
pan add  6  mushrooms  cut  in  quarters,  I  green 
minced  pepper;  simmer  gently  until  peppers  are 
tender;  add  4  tbsp.  flour  blended  with  1  tbsp. 
butter.  Stir  in  gradually  1  cup  rich  milk,  1  cup 
chicken  broth,  bring  to  boiling  point.  Put  in  the 
breast  of  chicken  cut  in  1  inch  squares  and  yolk 
of  1  egg.  Stir  very  carefully  and  serve  on  hot 
toast. 


Pressed  Chicken  or  Turkey — Boil  a  chicken 
gently  in  just  enough  water  to  cover,  until  it 
falls  from  the  bones.  If  too  much  water  is  used, 
or  it  is  cooked  too  fast  so  that  it  all  boils  away, 
the  mixture  will  not  jelly.  Remove  skin,  bones, 
gristle.  Chop  the  meat  and  season.  Skim  fat 
from  broth,  return  meat  to  it,  heat,  turn  into  a 
bowl.  Press  a  platter  down  on  the  meat  with  a 
heavy  weight.  When  cold,  this  should  turn  out 
as  a  mold  of  jelly  and  cut  in  smooth,  even  slices. 
In  very  hot  weather  it  is  sometimes  necessary  to 
add    1    teasp.    gelatine    to    stock. 

Molded  Jellied  Chicken — To  make  a  large  loaf, 
use  a  knuckle  of  veal,  cover  with  cold  water,  boil 
up,  add  a  large  old  fowl,  cover,  cook  until  meat 
falls  from  bones.  Remove  meat,  cool.  Simmer 
the  stock  with  I  cup  canned  tomato  juice  down 
to  2  cups  in  all,  season  with  J4  teasp.  salt,  J/fc 
teasp.  pepper,  onion  juice.  Cool,  strain.  Pass  the 
lean  veal  through  meat  chopper,  add  1  cup  stock, 
season  if  needed  with  salt,  paprika,  lemon  juice 
and  onion.  Mix  in  1  cup  chopped  celery.  Place 
large  mold  or  pan  on  a  piece  of  ice.  Cover  bot- 
tom of  pan  with  stock.  When  jellied,  arrange 
whites  and  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  canned 
pimientoes  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Sprinkle  with 
finely  shredded  green  peppers  or  parsley.  Pour 
rest  of  stock  on  slowly  so  as  to  harden.  When 
this  has  jellied  add  a  layer  of  chicken,  then  one 
of  veal.  Spread  on  a  thin  layer  of  butter,  then 
oiled  paper.  Put  a  plate  with  a  weight  on  top. 
When  on  ice  3  hours  turn  the  jellied  loaf  out 
and    serve. 

Chicken  Pie    (with  Forcemeat  Balls) — Cut  up  a 

chicken  and  boil  covered  according  to  directions. 
When  it  begins  to  be  tender  remove  and  place  at 
once  in  a  baking  pan.  Lay  the  pieces  on  top  of  2 
thin  slices  of  fried  pork  with  1  dozen  marble- 
sized  forcemeat  balls  and  1  cup  hot  water.  Cover 
the  top  with  a  thin  biscuit  dough.  Lightly  brown 
the  crust  in  hot  oven,  lower  heat,  cover  with  thick 
paper,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Make  a  gravy  of 
the  boiled  stock  seasoned  and  thickened  with  flour 
and  cream.  Pour  this  gravy  quickly  through  the 
holes   in  the   crust. 

Individual  Chicken  Pie — Mix  1  cup  minced  cold 
fowl,  1  cup  minced  cooked  ham,  season  with  salt, 
paprika,  parsley,  minced  green  pepper  if  liked. 
Moisten  with  thickened  gravy  or  cream.  Cut  sev- 
eral strips  of  pastry  twice  as  long  as  wide.  Spread 
half  of  each  strip  with  the  meat  paste,  fold  over  the 
other  half  and  pinch  edges  of  pie  together.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  until  brown.  Serve  with  a  cream 
gravy,   seasoned  with  paprika   and  tomato. 

Roast  Turkey — Wash  and  clean  inside  thor- 
oughly. Fill  with  a  stuffing,  sew  up  the  body,  tie 
skin  around  neck,  bind  legs  and  wings  close  to 
body,    cover    breast    with    thin    slices    of    salt   pork, 


1  54       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


put  in  roaster  uncovered.  Sear  turkey  under 
oven  flame  or  in  hot  oven.  Pour  over  it  I  cup 
boiling  water,  cover  roaster,  lower  heat,  cook 
slowly  1 5  minutes  to  each  lb.,  baste  about  every 
30  minutes.  Fifteen  minutes  before  turkey  is 
done,  uncover,  remove  pork  strips  and  giblets. 
Baste  turkey  with  gravy,  dredge  with  flour,  pour 
out  the  gravy,  brown  turkey  in  oven.  Skim 
gravy,  add  2  tbsp.  browned  flour  and  water  paste, 
salt,  pepper,  and  giblets  minced.  Simmer  and 
pour  into  gravy  boat.  Serve  cranberry  sauce 
with   turkey. 

Roast  Goose — Prepare  for  oven  as  directed  for 
turkey,  except  that  a  goose  must  be  scrubbed  with 
brush  and  hot  water;  rinse  inside  and  out  with 
cold  water,  wipe,  stuff  with  a  dressing  seasoned 
with  onions  and  sage.  Roast  in  hot  oven  for  2 
hours  or  more,  basting  often,  first  with  1  cup 
boiling  water  then  with  drippings  in  the  pan. 
When  thoroughly  done,  dredge  with  flour,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  brown.  Place  on  hot  platter,  remove 
strings    and     skewers.       Serve    with    baked    apples. 


To  make  gravy,  skim  off  all  fat  from  liquor  in 
pan,  thicken  liquor  with  browned  flour,  and  stir 
in    the    minced    giblets. 

Roast    Duck Select    young    small    ducks    rather 

than  a  large  drake.  Leave  the  feet  on,  remove 
the  long  neck  and  pinions.  Prepare  as  for  roast 
turkey,  scald  and  skin  the  feet  and  twist  across 
the  back.  Stuff  with  a  dry  dressing.  Skewer  the 
wings  close  to  the  sides.  Roast  30  to  40  minutes. 
Arrange  6  small  sour  cored  apples  around  the 
duck.  Brown  quickly  in  hot  oven,  lower  heat, 
baste  while  cooking  until  apples  are  done.  Serve 
with    green    peas.      Garnish   with   stuffed   olives. 

Stewed   Duck    (with    Peas) Clean    and    singe     1 

large  duck,  cut  into  pieces,  roll  in  flour,  pepper 
and  salt,  brown  quickly  in  fat.  Pour  over  it  1 
quart  of  Spanish  sauce  and  soup  stock  mixed, 
seasoned  with  Yz  teasp.  onion  juice,  1  bay  leaf, 
2  cloves,  and  minced  parsley.  Cover  closely,  cook 
slowly  2  hours,  uncover  and  add  Yl  can  peas. 
Cover  and  cook  J/2  hour  longer.  Serve  with  a 
border   of  potatoes. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CLASS  7— POULTRY— STUFFING 


155 


POULTRY    AND   GAME    STUFFING 


Bread  Dressing — To  I  cup  bread  crumbs  add 
1  tablespoon  minced  fat  pork,  a  dash  of  paprika 
and  onion  juice  and  minced  parsley.  Moisten 
with  water  or  stock.  Sausage  meat  partially 
cooked  may  be  used  instead  of  the  pork.  If 
chopped  nut  meats  are  substituted  omit  the  onion 
juice  and  moisten  with  milk  or  leave  the  dressing 
dry. 

Oyster  Dressing — Mix  rdy  bread  crumbs  with 
a  seasoning  of  parsley,  thyme,  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  a  dozen  small  oysters.  If  a  wet  dressing  is 
wished,    moisten    with    oyster    liquor. 

Chestnut  Dressing — Boil  1  quart  large  Italian 
chestnuts.  When  done,  shell  and  peel  them,  mash 
smooth,    mix  with   2    tbsp.   butter,   salt  and   pepper. 

Southern  Turkey  Dressing — Make  a  corn-meal 
mush  of  2  tbsp.  corn-meal,  salt,  boiling  water— 
cool.  Stir  in  1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  1  beaten 
egg,  1  tbsp.  butter,  lard  or  melted  chicken  fat, 
1  tbsp.  minced  ham,  I  teasp.  salt,  I  saltsp.  pep- 
per, mold  into  tiny  balls  with  a  spoon,  stuff  the 
turkey  or  fowl  with  the  balls,  allowing  room  for 
them    to    swell. 


California  Dressing  —  Moisten  stale  slices  of 
bread  in  a  little  milk,  press  out  the  liquid.  Mix 
with  the  bread  1  tbsp.  melted  butter,  I  tbsp. 
sugar,  J/2  cup  chopped  almonds,  2  tbsp.  whole- 
seeded  raisins  or  currants  if  the  dressing  is  for 
game. 

Potato    Stuffing    (for   Ducks    and    Geese) To    2 

cups  mashed  potatoes  add  ]/i  cup  milk,  1  teasp. 
onion  juice,  1  tbsp.  butter,  1  tbsp.  chopped  par- 
sley, salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Add  1  egg  yolk, 
beat   all    together. 

For  those  who  like  a  sour  kraut  dressing,  omit 
the  milk,  sage  and  parsley,  and  use  a  generous 
amount   of   sour   kraut  with   the   seasoned   potatoes. 

Apple  Stuffing  (for  Roast  Goose) — Fry  in  a 
little  bacon  fat,  1  chopped  onion,  I  teasp.  each 
chopped  celery  and  parsley.  Add  to  this  the 
goose  heart  and  liver  previously  cooked  and 
chopped.  Remove  from  skillet,  mix  with  2  large 
apples  cut  in  cubes,  Yl  CUP  bread  crumbs,  pepper 
and  salt.  Moisten  with  baked  apples  cored  and 
filled    with    chopped    nuts    and    currant   jelly. 

Duck   Giblet  Stuffing Boil  the   duck's   liver   and 

mince  with  3  large  onions,  I  hard  boiled  egg 
yolk;  stir  into  2/3  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  teasp. 
■alt,  sage,   few  grains  pepper  and    1    teasp.  parsley. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


1 5  6        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^IIIIIIIIMIIIIIIUIIMIIIIIIIIIIIi.lllllllllllllllllllllllll||||||MIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU: 

I  §      CLASS  8 


ame 


nlllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiillllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiMMIlllll; 

Under  this  head  is  included  all  wild  animals  and  wild  fowl  used  for  food. 
In  cooking  either,  apply  the  same  general  rules  already  given  for  meats  and  poul- 
try, remembering  that  all  white  meated  game  should  be  cooked  well  done;  dark 
meated  game  rare,  and  both  must  be  sent  to  the  table  very  hot,  with  hot  plates. 
Wild  meat  contains  a  much  greater  percentage  of  phosphates,  and  much  more 
lean  than  fat,  while  the  lean  is  of  much  greater  density  than  the  flesh  of  domes- 
ticated animals.  It  follows  that  they  are  a  strong  food,  and,  if  well  digested,  very 
nutritious. 

When  game  is  kept  many  days  it  should  be  drawn,  the  inside  rubbed  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  it  does  no  harm  to  put  some  lumps  of  charcoal  in  the  cavity. 
If  there  is  any  objection  to  washing,  it  must  be  very  carefully  drawn  and  then 
wiped  with  a  damp  cloth  until  perfectly  clean.  Neither  salt  nor  pepper  should 
touch  the  outside  of  the  meat  until  it  is  cooked. 

Simplicity  is  the  highest  perfection  in  cooking,  especially  of  game,  and  all 
seasoning,  sauces  and  accompaniments  should  be  subordinate  to  the  flavor  of  the 
meat. 


RECIPES 


Roast  Venison — Venison,  the  meat  of  deer, 
should  be  cooked  rare  and  served  very  hot.  It 
will  be  too  dry  if  not  covered  thoroughly  with  butter 
and  basted  often  with  hot  water  and  butter,  or 
larded  with  strips  of  pork.  Put  the  larded  leg 
or  saddle  of  venison  in  a  covered  roaster  with  a 
little  water.  Cook  20  minutes  to  each  lb.,  bast- 
ing every  I  5  minutes.  Half  hour  before  it  should 
be  done  baste  with  claret  or  melted  currant  jelly. 
Make  a  gravy  with  the  drippings  seasoned.  Pour 
into  gravy  boat,  serve  some  tart  jelly  with  the 
roast. 

Loin  haunch  or  leg  may  be  roasted  in  the  same 
way. 

When  the  roast  is  to  be  reheated,  slice  it  and 
heat  in  a  brown  sauce,  or  curry,  or  olive  sauce, 
or    serve    cold    with   mustard    sauce. 

Venison  Steak — Cut  steak  54  inch  thick,  rub 
with  oil  and  lemon  juice,  set  aside  I  hour,  then 
broil  as  beefsteak.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  paprika. 
Serve  at  once  with  wild  plum  or  crabapple  jelly, 
or   Maitre    d'Hotel   sauce. 

Roast  Rabbit  or  Hare — These  are  fall  and  early 
winter  game.  Select  a  young  one  with  soft  paws 
and  hairs  not  stiff.  Have  the  butcher  skin  the 
hare,  which  was  drawn  supposedly  soon  after  it 
was  killed.  Wash  carefully,  stuff  with  a  dressing 
as  for  chicken  with  minced  pork  added.  Sew  up, 
truss  the  legs.      Put  in   roasting  pan  and  lay  sliced 


pork  over  it.  Bake  1  hour  in  hot  oven,  '  turn 
and  baste  often  with  boiling  water  and  butter. 
Before  basting  the  last  time,  dredge  with  flour  and 
brown.  Thicken  the  gravy  and  add  1  tbsp.  tomate 
catsup    or   Worcestershire    sauce. 

Hare  en  Casserole — I.  Cut  up  the  prepared  hare 
as  for  fricassee,  roll  in  flour,  brown  well  in  hot 
pork  fat  or  bacon  grease.  Arrange  these  pieces 
in  hot  casserole  on  a  layer  of  sliced  onions  lightly 
fried.  Add  parboiled  potatoes  sliced.  Pour  over 
all  a  brown  mushroom  sauce.  Simmer  until  ten- 
der from  1  to  2  hours;  add  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice, 
4    tbsp.    sherry,   and   serve. 

2.  Pour  over  the  browned  pieces  of  rabbit  in 
casserole  a  curry  sauce,  or  Spanish  sauce,  or  rich 
brown  stock.  Cover  tight,  simmer  I  to  2  hours. 
If  brown  stock  is  used,  add  to  the  casserole  just 
before  serving  2  tbsp.  tart  jelly;  serve  with  boiled 
rice. 

Squirrel  or  Rabbit  Pie — Brown  the  pieces  of 
squirrel  in  bacon  fat,  season  with  I  teasp.  salt, 
pepper,  I  sliced  onion,  3  lemon  slices,  1  tbsp. 
butter  or  minced  pork.  Cover  with  boiling  water; 
put  on  a  tight  cover  and  stew  slowly  I  hour  or 
until  tender.  Put  the  squirrel  into  a  baking  dish 
and  pour  over  it  the  gravy  thickened  with  1  tbsp. 
flour  heated  with  I  tbsp.  butter  or  fat.  Cover 
with  a  light  biscuit  crust  and  brown  in  the  oven. 


157 


1  58        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Wild  Ducks — These  should  be  carefully  picked, 
singed,  washed  outside,  drawn  and  wiped  inside 
with  a  cloth  wet  in  soda  and  water. 

For  a  casserole  cut  the  birds  up  neatly.  Split 
them  down  the  back  for  broiling  or  smothering. 
Leave  them  whole  for  roasting  and  truss  with  the 
neck  twisted  down  to  cover  the  opening  in  breast, 
the  tail  turned  down  to  close  opening  through 
which  it  was  drawn.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook    rare    20    to    30    minutes. 

If  stuffing  is  used,  select  either  a  dry  bread 
dressing,  or  oysters  rolled  in  egg  and  dry  bread 
crumbs  toasted  in  butter,  or  chopped  onion,  cel- 
ery, and  crumbs.  All  wild  birds  may  be  pre- 
pared   in    about    the    same    ways. 

Broiled    Quail Pick,    singe,    draw    and    cut    off 

heads  and  feet  of  6  quail.  Wipe  out  with  a  wet 
cloth,  split  down  the  back,  spread  inside  and  out 
with  oil,  pepper  and  salt,  broil  on  both  sides  1 5 
or  20  minutes.  Baste  with  the  oil  and  drippings 
if  the  birds  seem  to  get  dry  before  they  are  done. 
Serve  plain  on  buttered  toast,  or  with  a  spoonful 
each  of  hot  bread  sauce  topped  with  crisp  fried 
bread   crumbs. 

Smothered  Prairie  Chicken — Prepare  as  quail 
for  broiling.  Brown  lightly  in  hot  skillet,  then 
arrange     in     a     steaming     pan     with     tight     cover. 


Steam  very  slowly  30  minutes.  Remove  cover  and 
pour  over  birds  I  cup  Maitre  d'Hotel  sauce.  Serve 
with  fried   hominy,   green  peas  and  tart  jelly. 

Broiled  Squab — Split  down  back  and  spread 
flat;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  broil  until 
done.  Lay  each  squab  on  a  square  of  toast  and 
pour    over    it    Maitre    d'Hotel    sauce. 

Roast    Grouse When    ready    for    roasting,    truss 

and  stuff  if  desired  with  an  oyster  dressing  to 
which  finely  minced  fat  pork  has  been  added  or 
a  seasoned  bread  crumb  dressing,  or  spread  in- 
side of  the  birds  with  butter,  tie  slices  of  fat  pork 
on  the  back  and  thighs,  as  the  grouse  is  a  dry 
meat  bird.  Place  in  a  covered  roaster  with  I  cup 
boiling  water,  roast  45  minutes.  Brown  and 
serve   with   jelly   sauce. 

Pigeon  Pie — The  birds  may  be  floured  as  for 
roasting  and  browned  quickly  in  butter,  spread 
inside  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  spread 
outside  with  a  forcemeat  of  veal  and  ham  ground 
and  mashed  with  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Ar- 
range in  a  deep  pie  dish  with  a  very  little  water. 
Fill  in  between  the  birds  with  the  remaining  force- 
meat made  into  tiny  balls.  Bake  covered  until 
nearly  done,  then  pour  in  a  drawn  butter  sauce. 
Cover  with  a  thin  pie  crust  with  a  slit  in  the  center. 
Cook   until   crust   is  done   and  brown. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^IIIIIIIMMIIMIIUinilllllllilUIIMIIIIIIMIMIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIMIIMMIMMIIMIII^IIIUIIHUMIIilililEMIilMimilMlliHIIillllllljLjj 

■irr 


CLASS  9       |  1 

niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiliiniiHiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 

Fish  is  an  important  part  of  our  food  supply.  Fresh  fish  is  less  stimulating 
and  nourishing  than  meat,  but  is  considered  more  easily  digested.  Fish  makes  an 
agreeable  change  in  the  usual  routine  of  a  roast,  broil,  fry  and  boil.  A  notable 
advantage  is  the  short  time  required  to  cook  fish;  another  is  the  great  variety  of 
kinds  through  the  long  list  of  fresh  and  salt  water,  red  or  white  fleshed,  dry,  salt 
or  fresh.  The  white  fleshed  fish  is  more  easily  digested  than  the  red  fleshed. 
Examples  are  whitefish,  haddock,  cod,  flounder,  perch,  pickerel,  crappies,  etc. 
Examples  of  red  fleshed  fish  are  salmon,  shad,  lake  trout,  etc.  Very  large  fish 
are,  as  a  rule,  better  when  boiled  or  steamed ;  medium  sized  ones  should  be  baked 
or  split  and  broiled,  and  small  ones  fried.  Red  fleshed  fish,  being  richer  in  fat, 
should  not  be  fried. 

A  fish  is  in  good  condition  when  the  eyes  are  bright,  the  gills  a  bright  clear 
red,  scales  shiny,  the  flesh  firm  and  free  from  a  disagreeable  odor. 

Mayor  Mitchell's  Food  Committee  on  Fish 

The  habit  of  eating  fish  on  Friday  only  is  absurd,  and  should  be  stopped. 
Fish  are  just  as  appetizing  and  nourishing  on  Tuesday  and  Thursday  as  on  Fri- 
day, and  if  you  and  your  neighbors  will  buy  fish  any  day  in  the  week  you  will  get 
cheaper  fish  and  better  fish.  Hundreds  of  carloads  of  fish  are  sent  from  New  York 
to  other  cities  because  the  people  of  New  York  do  not  appreciate  the  value  of  fish 
as  a  food  and  do  not  buy  it  as  often  as  they  should. 

Vary  your  diet  as  much  as  you  can.  You  will  be  more  healthy  if  you  do.  Don't 
use  meat  so  much.  Use  fish  more.  Fish  is  just  as  nourishing  as  lean  meat  and  if  eaten  with 
bread,  potatoes,  etc.,  will  supply  all  the  needs  of  the  body.  If  possible,  buy  your  fish 
from  a  fish  dealer. 

When  you  buy  fish  see  that  you  get  the  trimmings.  You  are  just  as  much  entitled 
to  them  as  you  are  to  the  trimmings  of  your  meat. 

The  meat  part  of  almost  any  fish  may  be  cooked  separately.  If  you  ask  your  fish 
dealer  to  remove  the  meat  part  of  the  fish  for  you,  the  trimmings  will  consist  of  the  head, 
the  skeleton  and  the  fins,  and  these  can  be  used  for  fish  stock  out  of  which  can  be  made 
excellent  fish  soups  and  fish  sauces. 

Halibut  costs  from  fifteen  to   twenty-two  cents  a  pound.      Market  cod  costs  about 
five  cents  less  a  pound,  and  can  be  cooked  in   the  same  way  as  halibut.      It  can  be  cut  u» 
into  steaks;  it  can  be  boiled;  the  tail  can  be  split  and  broiled  in  the  same  way  that  you  would 
broil  mackerel  or  bluefish,  and  it  costs  about  eight  cents  less  a  pound  than  either  mackerel  or 
bluefish.  i 

Haddock  costs  about  five  cents  to  eight  cents  less  a  pound  than  halibut  and  can  be 
cooked  in  the  same  way.  Both  cod  and  haddock  are  in  season  all  the  year  and  if  properly 
cooked  are  extremely  appetizing. 

When  you  buy  bluefish  get  a  large  sized  fish;  it  costs  about  five  cents  a  pound  less 
than  a  medium  sized  one,  and  if  you  buy  a  large   one   you   will   have   enough    left   over   for 

159 


1  60       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

another  meal.     Any  fish  left  over  can  be  used  to  make  fish  cakes  or  can  be  creamed  and 
put  into  a  dish  and  baked. 

Many  People  go  to  a  fish  store  and  buy  the  fillets  of  a  fish  instead  of  buying  the 
whole  fish.  A  fillet  of  fish  is  nothing  more  or  less  than  the  meat  of  the  fish  stripped  from 
the  skeleton.  Some  fish  dealers  have  these  fillets  all  ready  on  a  platter  for  sale,  but  if  you 
buy  them  that  way  you  will  pay  anywhere  from  five  to  twenty  cents  more  a  pound  fof 
them  than  if  you  buy  the  entire  fish  and  ask  the  dealer  to  strip  the  fillets  off  for  you  and 
give  you  the  trimmings. 


HOW  TO  TELL  WHEN  FISH  IS  FRESH 

In  fresh  fish  the  eyes  are  bright,  the  gills  red,  and  the  flesh  firm  and  odorless.  Put 
fish  in  water,  and  if  it  sinks  you  will  know  it  is  fresh.  If  it  floats,  it  is  a  sign  it  is  not  fresh, 
and  it  should  not  be  used.     Serious  illness  is  apt  to  follow  the  eating  of  fish  that  is  not  fresh. 

Cleaning  Fish — Be  sure  that  your  fish  is  thoroughly  cleaned  before  cooking.  It  should 
be  cleaned  as  soon  as  it  is  bought. 

Fish  in  Season — Cod,  scrod,  haddock  and  chicken  halibut  can  be  obtained  prac- 
tically all  the  year.  (Scrod  is  young  cod  split  down  the  back  and  the  backbone  removed 
except  a  small  portion  near  the  tail.  Chicken  halibut  is  the  kind  usually  found  in  the 
markets. ) 

Flounders  are  not  so  good  in  November,  December  and  January. 

Smelts  are  in  season  from  June  to  March. 

Mackerel  is  in  season  from  May  to  September. 

Shad  is  in  season  from  January  to  June. 

Salmon  is  in  season  from  May  to  September,  but  it  can  be  obtained  the  greater  part 
of  the  year. 

Bluefish  are  in  season  from  May  to  October.  As  it  is  frozen  and  kept  in  cold 
storage  from  six  to  nine  months  k  may  be  obtained  practically  the  year  round. 


THE  TUNA  FISH 


It  is  surprising  that  more  are  not  familiar  with  the  tuna  fish.  It  provides  a  most 
satisfactory  fish  dinner  at  a  moment's  notice,  and  it  is  a  veritable  delicacy  that  every  house- 
wife should  keep  in  stock. 

The  meat  of  the  tuna  fish  is  pure  and  white,  greatly  resembling  lobster  meat  and, 
to  many,  much  like  it  in  flavor.  In  Norway  it  is  much  preferred  to  fillet  of  sole.  But  its 
greatest  advantage  lies  in  its  adaptability.  It  may  be  broiled  and  used  with  toast,  it  makes 
a  most  tempting  sandwich,   with  crisp  lettuce,  and  for  a  fish  salad  no  other  fish  can  rival  it. 

The  commercial  tuna  is  a  small  fish  found  off  the  coast  of  Alaska  and  California 
and  off  Finland  and  Norway.     We  get  most  of  it  from  California. 

It  is  one  of  the  nourishing  foods.  Like  the  salmon,  it  is  a  fat  fish,  and  supplies 
many  calories,  or  units  of  body  fuel.  The  salmon  has  9.5  per  cent  of  fat  and  the  tuna  9.1 
per  cent.     The  salmon's  calories,  or  food  value  per  pound,  is  685.     The  tuna's,  669. 

The  tuna  may  be  served  cold,  as  an  hors  d'oeuvre,  or  it  may  be  broiled  and  spread 
on  toast,  like  anchovy  paste,  as  a  relish.  But,  best  of  all,  it  may  be  taken  solid  from  the 
can,  thoroughly  heated,  garnished  with  dabs  of  butter  and  bits  of  bacon,  and  served  as  the 
chief  dish  for  a  Friday  dinner. 

The  meat  of  the  tinned  tuna  fish  is  so  white  and  solid  that  it  lends  itself  admirably 
to   all  sorts  of   treatment   for  serving,    even   for  frying. 


CLASS  9— FISH— PREPARATION 


161 


THE  PREPARATION  OF  FISH 

White  fleshed  fish  are  best  broiled  or  planked,  larger  white  fleshed  fish  are 
best  boiled  and  served  with  sauce  Hollandaise  or  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter  (as  bass, 
cod,  halibut,  red  snapper,  haddock),  as  they  need  the  addition  of  some  form  of  fat 
to  give  flavor  and  nutriment.  Small  fish  (as  brook  trout,  smelts,  etc.)  are  best 
fried.     Halibut  slices  may  be  dipped  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  fried  in  fat. 

DIRECTIONS 


To  Clean  a  Fish — Remove  the  scales  by  scrap- 
ing with  a  dull  knife  from  the  tail  toward  the 
head.  Head  and  tail  may  be  left  on  or  removed 
according  to  the  manner  of  cooking.  Small  fish 
to  be  served  whole  have  the  entrails  removed  by 
opening  under  the  gills  and  pressing  out  their 
contents  with  the  thumb  and  finger;  example, 
smelts.  Larger  fish  are  split  half-way  down  the 
belly  and  the  insides  scraped  and  washed  with 
salt  and  water  after  it  is  empty.  Wipe  the  fish 
inside  and  out  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  cold 
salted   water,    then   wipe   with   a   dry,    clean   cloth. 

To  Skin  a  Fish First  remove  the  fins  along  the 

back  and  cut  off  a  narrow  strip  of  skin  the  en- 
tire length  of  the  back.  Loosen  the  skin  over  the 
bony  parts  of  the  gills  and  slowly  work  toward 
the   tail.      Do   the  same   on  the   other  side. 

To  Bone  a  Fish — Clean  fish  and  remove  head; 
beginning  at  the  tail,  run  sharp  knife  close  to  the 
backbone,  cutting  the  meat  away  on  one  side  and 
working  toward  the  head.  Turn  and  repeat  on 
the  other  side. 

Boiled  Fish — Clean  the  fish  according  to  the 
directions,  wipe  carefully  and  rub  with  salt. 
Wrap  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  to  hold  the  fish 
together  and  to  prevent  the  scum  from  adhering 
to  the  fish.  Place  it  in  a  kettle  half  filled  with 
boiling  water,  cook  slowly,  allowing  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes  to  the  pound.  A  long  fish-kettle 
with  a  rack  is  useful.  A  wire  basket  in  a  kettle 
may  be  substituted,  the  fish  coiled  about  in  the 
basket.  The  water  in  which  the  fish  cooks  should 
have  salt  and  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  added,  2 
teasp.  of  salt  and  1  of  vinegar  to  a  qt.  of  water. 
The  salt  gives  flavor,  the  vinegar  or  lemon  juice 
keeps  the  fish  white.  The  fish  is  cooked  when 
flesh  is  firm  and  separates  easily  from  the  bone. 
Take  from  the  water  and  remove  cheesecloth. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon. 

Steamed  Fish — Clean  carefully  but  without  re- 
moving head  or  fins;  rub  inside  and  out  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  laying  slices  of  onion 
inside  if  liked.  Lay  on  a  buttered  paper  and 
sceam  till  the  fish  falls  easily  from  the  bones.  Lay 
on  a  folded  napkin,  garnish  with  lemon  and 
parsley  and  serve  with  a  Hollandaise  sauce. 


Baked  Fish — Clean,  wipe  and  dry  the  fish;  rub 
with  salt  inside  and  out;  stuff  and  sew;  cut  gashes 
two  inches  apart  on  each  side  so  they  will  alter- 
nate and  skewer  into  the  shape  of  an  S  or  an  O. 
Put  the  fish  on  a  greased  baking  sheet,  or  if  this 
fish  sheet  is  not  at  hand  place  strips  of  cotton 
cloth  under  the  fish  by  which  it  may  be  lifted 
from  the  pan.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
place  narrow  strips  of  pork  lardoons  in  the  gashes. 
Place  in  a  hot  oven  without  water;  baste  with  hot 
water  and  butter  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown 
and  repeat  every  ten  minutes  afterwards.  For  a 
four-pound  fish  the  time  would  be  an  hour.  Re- 
move to  a  hot  platter;  draw  out  the  string;  wipe 
off  all  water  or  fat  which  remains  from  the  fish, 
remove  pieces  of  pork.  Garnish  the  head  of  fish 
with  parsley  or  watercress. 

Stuffing   for   Baked   Fish 1.       One    cup    cracker 

crumbs,  '/£  teasp.  salt,  J/g  teasp.  pepper,  1  teasp. 
chopped  onions,  1  teasp.  chopped  parsley,  I  teasp. 
capers,  1  teasp.  chopped  pickles,  3  tbsp.  melted 
butter;  this  is  sufficient  for  a  fish  weighing  4  to  6 
pounds. 

2.  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  tbsp.  minced  onion, 
2  tbsp.  butter,  I  teasp.  chopped  parsley,  J/^  teasp. 
salt,  Y&  teasp.  pepper,  I  egg.  Soak  bread  in  cold 
water;  when  soft,  press  out  all  the  water;  fry 
onion  in  butter,  add  the  bread,  parsley  and  sea- 
soning.     Add    the   beaten    egg   at   last. 

3.  ]/i  cup  lean  veal,  ]/g  lb.  fat  bacon,  '/J  cup 
bread  crumbs,  \/q  teasp.  salt,  J/Jj  teasp.  pepper,  I 
teasp.  onion,  1  teasp.  parsley.  Chop  the  meat 
very  fine,  add  the  bread  crumbs  soaked  and 
pressed    and    the    seasonings. 

Broiled  Fish — Large  fish  should  be  split  through 
the  back  to  broil,  head  and  tail  are  usually  re- 
moved. Salmon,  halibut  and  sword  fish  are  cut 
in  inch  slices  for  broiling.  Smelts  and  other  small 
fish  are  broiled  whole.  Clean  and  wipe  fish  as 
dry  as  possible,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
place  in  a  well-greased  broiler.  Broil  the  flesh 
side  first  till  almost  done,  then  cook  on  the  skin 
side  just  long  enough  to  brown  well.  Small  fish 
require  from  5  to  6  minutes,  thick  ones  from  20 
to  30  minutes.  To  remove  from  the  broiler, 
loosen     one    side     from    the    wires     first,     turn    and 


1  62        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


loosen  on  the  other  side,  then  slip  from  broiler  to 
hot  platter.  Spread  with  butter  and  set  in  warm- 
ing oven   to   let  it  penetrate  the   fish. 

To  broil  fish  in  a  gas  stove,  clean  and  dry  as 
usual,  only  it  is  better  to  remove  the  backbone. 
Put  under  the  flames  an  iron  or  granite  baking 
dish  well  greased.  Place  the  fish  on  this,  skin 
down,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with 
butter  and  dredge  with  flour.  When  nicely 
browned  reduce  heat;  time  required,  from  25  to 
30    minutes. 

Fried  Fish — Wipe  the  fish  dry,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  then  dip  in  flour  or  crumbs,  then  dip  in  egg, 
and  again   in   flour  or  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Panned  Fish — This  is  suitable  for  any  small  fish 
or  such  as  can  be  cut  in  slices.  Have  the  fish  well 
cleaned,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt  and  dried 
with  a  little  flour;  or,  better  still,  very  fine  bread 
crumbs.       Have    a    large    frying    pan    smoking    hot 


with  as  little  grease  in  it  as  will  keep  the  fish  from 
sticking.  Dripping  from  good  sweet  pork  is  the 
best,  but  any  sweet  drippings  will  do.  When  the 
fat  begins  to  smoke  blue,  lay  in  the  fish  and 
brown  quickly  on  both  sides,  then  cover  closely 
and  set  back  to  cook  more  slowly,  from  10  to  20 
minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish.  Bass 
in  all  its  varieties  is  suitable  to  cook  in  this  way; 
so  are  butterfish,  cisco  (lake  herring),  herring, 
perch,    porgies,    trout,   weakfish,    etc. 

Saute  Fish — Prepare  your  fish  as  for  frying  and 
cook  in  frying  pan  with  small  amount  of  fat.  Cod 
steaks    and    smelts    should    be    cooked    in    this    way. 

Salt  Fish Very  salt  fish  should  be  cooked  sev- 
eral hours  in  3  or  4  changes  of  warm  water. 
Place  the  skin  side  up,  so  that  salt  crystals  may 
fall  away  from  the  under  side  or  meat  side.  Wipe 
carefully  and  clean,  then  soak  an  hour  in  very 
cold   water. 


RECIPES 


Boiled    Halibut Lay    fish    in    cold    salt    water     1 

hour.  To  remove  the  black  skin  before  cooking 
put  that  side  in  boiling  water  an  inch  deep  for  a 
few  minutes.  Scrape  skin  off,  wash,  sew  up  in 
cheesecloth,  put  on  to  cook  in  cold  water,  add 
a  gill  of  vinegar,  boil  a  moment,  then  simmer. 
When  the  flakes  begin  to  separate  or  a  fin  can 
easily  be  loosened,  remove  fish  to  hot  dish-  gently, 
then  slip  off  the  cloth.  Make  a  rich  sauce  of 
canned  tomatoes,  thickened  with  I  tbsp.  butter 
rubbed  into  1  tbsp.  flour,  Yl  teasp.  sugar,  Yl  green 
pepper  minced,  and  salt,  pepper  to  taste.  Cook 
1 5  minutes,  press  through  a  coland'er,  pour  over 
the  fish.  Serve  mashed  potatoes,  baked  with 
cheese. 

Baked  Halibut  Steaks — Wipe  fish  with  cold  wet 
cloth,  season  slices  with  salt,  pepper,  roll  in  flour, 
put  into  baking  pan  with  milk  to  the  depth  of  I 
inch,  sprinkle  with  parsley  and  butter,  minced 
celery  leaves  and  few  slices  of  onion.  Bake  slowly 
45    minutes   in   moderate   oven. 

Baked  Haddock  Larded — Clean,  wash  and  dry 
fish,  sprinkle  salt  inside  and  out  and  stuff  with 
1  cup  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  1  teasp.  minced 
salt  pork,  1  teasp.  salt,  I  teasp.  chopped  onion. 
Insert  strips  of  salt  pork  in  gashes  cut  on  each 
side  of  backbone.  Tie  fish  with  a  cord  in  package 
fashion  to  be  removed  before  serving.  Place  in 
baking  pan  in  moderate  oven.  Bake  1 5  minutes 
to  each  lb.  Baste  with  water  as  gravy  in  pan 
dries  out.  Serve  with  a  cream  sauce,  garnish  with 
thin  lemon  slices. 

Smoked    Haddock    en     Casserole Prepare     fish, 

boil  !  0  minutes.  Skin,  lift  large  pieces  of  flesh 
from    the    bones,    dip    them    in    flour,    lay   in    a    but- 


tered baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
put  a  layer  of  thick  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  on 
top.  Pour  in  and  over  all  a  plain  thickened 
cream  sauce,  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  and 
cover.  Bake  slowly  1 0  minutes.  Serve  with 
whole  baked  tomatoes  and  potatoes  mashed  with 
cream   and   butter. 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel — Wash  a  2  lb.  fish, 
wipe  dry,  split  and  remove  the  backbone,  rub  in- 
side and  out  with  salt  and  oil.  Grease  the  broiler, 
place  fish  on  it  skin  down.  Broil  under  oven  flame 
slowly  about  20  minutes.  Serve  at  once  on  hot 
dish  with  melted  butter. 

Fried     Smelts Leave     on     the     heads     and     tails. 

Clean  carefully,  making  an  opening  at  the  gills 
and  pushing  the  insides  quickly  out  the  gills;  wipe 
dry,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  dip  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  cottolene. 
Drain,    serve    hot  with   Tartare  sauce. 

Baked    Fresh    Codfish When    fish    is    sent    from 

market,  clean,  wipe,  rub  inside  and  out  with  salt 
and  put  on  ice  Yl  hour.  Heat  baking  pan  with 
bottom  covered  with  water  and  butter,  or  1  cup 
meat  stock.  Lay  the  3  lb.  fish  on  greased  grating 
of  pan,  sprinkle  on  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice,  oil. 
Cover  and  bake  30  minutes.  Uncover,  sift  on 
the  fish  fine  bread  crumbs  and  drops  of  butter, 
brown.  Thicken  gravy  with  butter  and  flour,  add 
lemon,  onion  juice,  and  Yl  tbsp.  Parmesan  cheese. 
Simmer  1  minute.  Serve  fish  surrounded  with 
boiled  salted  inch-length  macaroni.  Grate  cheese 
over  macaroni.  Garnish  with  sliced  hard  boiled 
eggs  if  desired.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  individual 
slices   when   served. 


CLASS  9— FISH— RECIPES 


163 


Boiled  Salmon  Trout — Clean  a  small  salmon, 
sew  up  in  cheesecloth,  place  in  kettle  with  boiling 
salted  water  to  cover.  Add  a  tbsp.  vinegar.  Cook 
slowly,  20  to  30  minutes.  Remove  cheesecloth, 
slide  fish  to  a  hot  platter.  Pour  over  it  a  white 
cream  sauce  with  egg,  or  a  cream  sauce  with  peas. 
Garnish   with   parsley   and    lemon   slices. 

Planked  Shad — While  the  plank  is  heating  un- 
der the  oven  flame,  wash,  split  and  dry  a  3  lb. 
shad,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  few  drops  of 
olive  oil,  lay  skin  down  on  hot  plank,  cook  quickly 
20  minutes.  During  that  time  boil  white  potatoes 
until  mealy,  drain,  add  butter,  salt  and  rich  milk; 
beat  until  smooth  and  stiff  enough  to  stand  alone. 
Drop  spoonfuls  of  the  potato  on  the  plank  around 
the  shad.  Put  where  the  potatoes  will  brown, 
spread  over  the  fish  a  dressing  of  melted  butter 
and   lemon   juice.      Serve. 

Shad  Roe This  may  be  broiled,  fried,  baked  or 

creamed.  Wipe  roe  with  wet  cloth,  dry,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Broil  5  minutes  on  greased 
wire  broiler  under  flame,  turn,  and  while  the  roe 
is  cooking  on  the  other  side,  place  thin  slices  of 
bacon  on  top.  Both  roe  and  bacon  will  be  done 
at  the  same  time.  Serve  at  once  with  lemon 
slices. 

To  Fry — Roll  in  flour,  egg,  bread  crumbs,  fry 
in  deep  fat,  serve  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter 
sauce. 

To  Boil Cook  in  gently  boiling  water  10  min- 
utes,  serve  with  tomato   sauce. 

Creamed  (Baked) — Crumble  2  boiled  shad 
roes  with  a  fork,  stir  lightly  into  a  plain  cream 
sauce,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  in  the 
chopped  whites  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  turn  into 
a  glass  baking  dish.  Crumble  the  hard-boiled 
yolks  on  top.  Place  in  hot  oven  for  a  few  min- 
utes   before    serving. 

Boiled   Filet  of  Flounder Filet   the   fish;   that  is, 

take  backbone  out  and  cut  each  half  in  about  2 
neat  long  slices.  Wipe  these,  season  with  salt, 
lemon  juice  and  oil.  Roll  each  slice  up  with 
skin  side  inside;  pin  with  a  toothpick;  put  on  ice 
1 5  minutes  to  stiffen.  Arrange  filets  in  pan,  add 
1  cup  water,  1  tbsp.  butter,  simmer  1  5  minutes, 
then  lift  them  out  with  a  flat  wire  spoon,  lay  on 
buttered  toast  and  pour  over  them  a  thick  cream 
sauce    cooked   with   chopped  parsley. 

Fish    Kedgeree Hard    boil    2    eggs,    wash    1     cup 

rice,  boil  until  tender,  drain;  mix  2  cups  of  cooked 
fish  flaked  with  the  rice  and  sliced  egg  whites. 
Turn  into  a  hot  pan  with  2  tbsp.  butter.  Season 
and  stir  until  hot  all  through.  Serve  quickly  on 
a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  grated  egg 
yolks.  Canned  tuna  fish  is  nice  prepared  in  this 
way. 


Tuna  Fish  with  Mayonnaise — Canned  tuna  fish 
is  usually  too  rich  to  serve  cold  unless  rinsed  in 
boiling  water  to  remove  some  of  the  fat.  Then 
chill  it  in  the  whole  piece.  At  the  same  time 
marinade  on  ice  in  spiced  vinegar,  1  can  of  as- 
paragus tips  and  Yl  can  stringed  beans  in  sep- 
arate dishes.  At  serving  time  dish  the  whole  piece 
of  tuna  fish  on  a  platter,  cover  with  stiff  mayon- 
naise, garnish  with  the  asparagus  tips  and  string 
beans. 

Fried  Tuna  Fish — To  fry  tuna,  wipe  it  as  thor- 
oughly dry  as  possible  without  breaking  and  pre- 
pare fat  for  immersion.  Do  not  use  the  old  fry- 
pan  method.  Beef  fat  is  good  because  it  does 
not  leave  the  fish  greasy,  or  some  of  the  modern 
prepared  cooking  fats  of  today  are  even  better. 
Do  not  get  the  fat  smoky.  Prepare  a  lot  of  very 
fine  bread  crumbs,  beat  eggs  without  separating 
yolks  and  whites,  and  brush  this  over  the  fish. 
Sprinkle  with  the  bread  crumbs  and  place  in  a 
wire  basket.  Throw  a  few  bread  crumbs  in  the 
fat  and  if  they  brown  in  thirty  seconds  the  fat  is 
just  right.  Immerse  the  fish  in  the  fat  by  means 
of  the  wire  basket  and  when  they  are  browned 
and  crisped  outside,  remove  and  drain  in  a  warm 
place.  Serve  the  fish  on  a  folded  napkin  on  a 
platter   garnished   with  lemon   and   parsley. 

Tuna  in  the  Can — If  you  heat  the  tuna  fish  in 
the  can  an  excellent  sauce  for  serving  with  it  is 
made  of  2  cups  of  milk,  2  cups  of  water,  5  tbsp. 
butter,  3  tbsp.  flour,  J/g  teasp.  pepper  and  J/£ 
teasp.  salt.  First  put  3  teasp.  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan and  cook  the  flour  in  it,  then  add  the  boiling 
liquid,  the  remainder  of  the  butter,  bit  by  bit,  and 
the    seasoning.       Boil    6    minutes. 

Tuna    Hors    d'Oeuvres As    an    hors    d'oeuvre    a 

tuna  fish  meat  may  be  served  by  cutting  into 
tempting  little  bits  the  solid  white  meat,  thoroughly 
chilled,  and  with  it  serve  a  generous  slice  of 
lemon.  Sprinkle  paprika  on  the  meat  and  garnish 
■with    parsley. 

Tuna  Paste A  paste  may  be  made  of  tuna  meat 

by  mincing  it  thoroughly  and  forcing  it  through 
coarse  cheesecloth.  Lightly  brown  a  narrow  slice 
of  bread.  With  the  tuna  meat  paste  mix  paprika 
and  enough  salt  to  make  it  more  than  ordinarily 
salty.  Spread  this  thinly  on  the  toasted  bread  and 
hold  again  over  the  hot  coals  of  the  gas  flame  un- 
til the  fish  paste  has  browned.  Serve  hot  for  a 
relish.  If  you  cannot  get  sufficiently  coarse 
cheesecloth,  use  a  very  fine  sieve.  Put  only 
enough  butter  with  this  to  moisten.  Too  much 
spoils  the   flavor. 

Tuna    Filet For    a    filet    nothing    is    better    than 

the  tuna  fish.  Many  people  place  it  ahead  of  sole. 
Cut  the  meat  in  strips  an  inch  wide,  roll  the  strips 
over    and    fasten    with    a    skewer.       Immerse    in    hot 


1 64        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


fat  or  cooking  oil  as  in  frying.  The  tinned  tuna 
fish  need  be  in  the  oil  no  more  than  3  minutes. 
Drain  carefully  and  serve  on  a  napkin,  garnishing 
the   filet  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

Canned  Salmon  (Baked) — Remove  bones  and 
skin  from  canned  salmon,  flake  the  fish  and  sim- 
mer in  its  own  liquor.  Mix  1  tbsp.  butter,  I  tbsp. 
flour  in  1  cup  milk;  add  I  tbsp.  lemon  juice,  few 
grains  cayenne;  stir  sauce  into  salmon  with  2 
sliced  hard-boiled  eggs.  This  may  be  poured  into 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkled  with  crumbs  and 
browned  in  hot  oven,  or  it  may  be  spread  in  a 
casserole  dish  on  a  bed  of  boiled  rice  or  thin 
sliced  cooked  potatoes.  Cover  with  rice  or  pota- 
toes and  steam  20  minutes.  Serve  with  peas,  or 
Hollandaise   sauce. 

Creamed  Salmon — Remove  bits  of  skin  and 
bones  and  flake  the  canned  salmon;  mix  with  4 
finely  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs,  I  cup  bread 
crumbs,  2  tbsp.  melted  butter,  1   cup  milk,  Yl  teasp. 


salt,  dash  of  pepper.  Heat  slowly  to  boil,  stirring 
often,  then  pour  it  over  crisp  buttered  toast  or 
puffed   pastry   browned. 

Sardines  or  tuna  fish  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  salmon. 

Salt  Codfish  Balls — Soak  I  cup  of  shredded  salt 
codfish  in  2  cups  water,  1 5  minutes,  drain.  Sim- 
mer with  2  cups  sliced  potatoes  until  they  are 
tender,  drain  and  mash.  Beat  in  until  thoroughly 
mixed,  I  beaten  egg,  I  tbsp.  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt  if  needed.  Dip  tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture 
in    hot   fat   when   brown,    drain,   serve. 

A  quicker  way  when  cold  cooked  potatoes  are 
at  hand  is  to  mix  mashed  potatoes  with  the  soaked 
codfish,  or  canned  salmon  or  any  cold  fish.  Sea- 
son, moisten  with  I  tbsp.  warm  milk,  and  I  tbsp. 
melted  butter  stirred  into  an  egg.  Mold  the  mix- 
ture into  balls,  dip  lightly  in  flour,  fry  in  hot  fat 
to  cover,  drain,  serve  at  once  on  hot  dish  with 
tomato  sauce. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos, 

of  Your  Own) 


dlllllllllllllllllMimillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillilillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllimilllllllllllllllllllU 

CLASS  10  1  I 


tg55^iSbefffbf> 


nlllllliiiliiiiiiiiiiiliMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilillliiiliiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilillllllllllMlllllllMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiililir. 


Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to  May.  Oysters  are  nutritious  and 
are  easily  digested,  especially  when  eaten  raw. 

To  Open  Oysters — Insert  a  thin,  sharp  knife  between  the  shells  near  the 
back,  pushing  the  knife  forward  till  it  cuts  the  muscle  which  holds  the  two  shells 
together. 

To  Clean  Oysters — Place  the  oysters  in  a  strainer  over  a  bowl.  Reserve 
the  drained  liquor.  Pick  over  each  oyster  carefully  for  bits  of  broken  shell  and 
wash  in  cold  water,  allowing  two  cups  to  each  quart.  The  oyster  liquor  should 
always  be  scalded  and  strained  before  using.  For  many  purposes  the  oysters 
should  be  scalded  before  using.  Place  one  pint  of  cleaned  oysters  in  a  frying 
basket  and  dip  it  for  one  minute  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  drain  and  dry  in  a 
soft  cloth. 

RECIPES 


Oysters  on  the  Half-Shell — Lay  6  oysters  on 
the  deep  halves  of  their  shells,  arrange  these  in 
individual  soup  plates  on  beds  of  fine  ice.  Serve 
with    lemon,    pepper,    salt. 

Oysters  Fried — Select  large  plump  oysters,  wipe 
dry,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs 
or  flour,  then  egg,  crumbs  again,  and  fry  1  min- 
ute in  deep  very  hot  fat.  Drain,  serve  at  once 
with  tomato  catsup,  or  tartare  sauce,  or  make  this 
cosmopolitan  sauce:  Melt  and  brown  2  tbsp. 
butter,  2  tbsp.  flour;  when  smooth  stir  in  1  cup 
oyster  liquor  until  it  boils.  Cool,  fold  in  Yl  CUP 
mayonnaise,  '/^  cup  Chili  sauce,  '/2  teasp.  Worces- 
tershire, 2  teasp.  vinegar,  '/4  teasp.  celery  seed, 
few  drops  onion  juice,  1  pimiento  cut  fine,  few 
drops  tobasco   sauce.      Serve   at   once. 

Scalloped  Oysters — In  a  buttered  baking  dish 
arrange  fine  bread  crumbs  and  oysters  in  alternate 
layers,  topping  with  bread  crumbs.  Moisten  each 
layer  with  a  little  milk  and  oyster  liquor  seasoned. 
Dot  with  butter,  brown  in  the  oven.  Instead  of 
milk,  a  tomato  sauce  may  be  used.  Mix  1  cupful 
thick  white  sauce  with  1  cup  tomato  juice,  1  teasp. 
onion  juice,  2  tbsp.  minced  green  peppers,  2  tbsp. 
minced  celery,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  some  of 
this  sauce  on  each  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and 
oysters. 

"Little  Pigs  in  Blankets" — Wash  and  dry  some 
large  oysters.  Wrap  around  each  a  thin  slice 
of  bacon;  pin  together  with  a  toothpick.  Broil  or 
roast  until  bacon  is  crisp  and  brown.  Serve  at 
once  on  toasted   crackers. 


Brown  Fricassee  of  Oysters  en  Casserole- 
Scald  I  pt.  oysters  in  I  cup  oyster  liquor.  Brown 
2  tbsp.  flour,  3  tbsp.  butterine  and  1  minced 
onion.  Stir  in  2  tbsp.  cream,  I  tbsp.  chopped 
parsley,  1  cup  oyster  liquor.  Cook  until  it 
thickens.  Put  half  the  sauce  in  a  small  buttered 
casserole.  Lay  the  oysters  on,  season  them  with 
salt,  sprinkle  lightly  with  grated  cheese  and  bread 
crumbs.  Cover  with  remainder  of  sauce,  then 
cheese  and  bread  crumbs.  Brown  in  quick  oven. 
Serve   hot   en   casserole. 

Oyster  Stew — This  may  be  made  with  fresh  or 
canned  milk.  If  the  latter  is  used,  mix  I  cup  milk 
with  I  cup  water.  Stir  this  slowly  into  a  roux  of 
2  tbsp.  butter,  2  tbsp.  flour,  J/£  teasp.  salt,  few 
grains  pepper.  Stir  all  the  time  it  cooks  until 
creamy.  Add  I  pt.  oysters;  remove  from  stove 
when    oysters   are    hot    through.      Serve. 

Clam  Fritters Wash  clams,   cut  off  heads,  split, 

•scrape  the  necks  and  chop  the  entire  clams.  Make 
a  batter  of  2  cups  milk,  2  beaten  eggs  and  about 
2  cups  prepared  flour.  Stir  the  chopped  clams 
into  the  batter;  drop  this  by  spoonfuls  into  deep 
hot  fat  or  lard.  When  fritters  brown  on  one 
side  turn  them  over.  When  brown  all  over,  drain 
and    serve   at   once   while    crisp. 

Clam    Shortcake Wash     I     dozen    large     clams, 

plunge  in  boiling  water  a  moment,  open  the  shells. 
Make  a  shortcake,  bake,  and  keep  hot.  Blend 
flour,  salt,  cayenne,  with  a  little  melted  butter; 
add  gradually  ]/£  cup  milk,  some  clam  liquor  and 
the  clams.  Simmer  about  4  minutes.  Split  the 
shortcake,  spread  the  creamed  clams  between  and 
some    on    top.       Serve    at    once. 


165 


1 66        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Scallops  —  Select  scallops  medium  size  and 
creamy  white,  rinse  in  salt  water,  dry,  dip  in  egg 
mixed  with  tomato  catsup,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  in  deep  fat  2 
minutes.  Serve  with  tartare  sauce.  Stewed 
scallops  are  cooked  in  a  double  boiler  1 0  minutes 
with    2    cups   of   white   sauce. 

Lobster    a    la    Newburg Select    perfectly    fresh 

ones.  Test  by  drawing  back  the  tail.  It  should 
spring  into  position  again  if  the  lobster  is  good. 
Plunge  into  boiling  water  and  boil  until  thor- 
oughly heated;  any  more  cooking  destroys  the  fine 
delicate  flavor.  Pick  the  meat  from  the  shells  of 
the  boiled  lobster.  Cut  into  small  cubes.  Stir  a 
pinch  of  soda  into  1  cup  cream,  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  few  grains  cay- 
enne. Stir  this  to  the  boiling  point.  When  thick- 
ened add  quickly  2  tbsp.  sherry  and  the  lobster 
meat.  Stir  until  smoking  hot.  Serve  in  deep  dish, 
covered.  Garnish  with  triangles  of  crisp  puff 
paste. 

Lobster  Cocktails — Thoroughly  heat  through  2 
large  lobsters  in  boiling  water,  remove,  cool.  Cut 
meat  into  large  dice,  pour  over  them  the  mixture 
of  Yl  tbsp.  each  Worcestershire  sauce,  vinegar, 
lemon  juice,  tomato  catsup,  1  teasp.  horseradish, 
I  saltsp.  salt,  1  saltsp.  tobasco.  Put  directly  on 
ice    I     hour.       Serve    in    small    cocktail    glasses. 

Lobster   Cutlets Beat    3    egg  yolks   into    Yl    CUP 

cream;  add  this  slowly  to  I  tbsp.  melted  butter 
mixed  with  1  tbsp.  flour,  season  with  1  teasp. 
parsley,  minced,  pinch  of  cayenne,  salt  and  mace. 
Cook  up  almost  to  boiling,  remove.  Stir  in  lob- 
ster meat  chopped  fine,  place  all  in  a  dish  to  cool. 
When  cold  enough  to  mold  with  hands,  shape  into 
cutlets,  dip  in  egg,  then  fine  bread  crumbs.  Fry 
brown   in   hot   fat.      Serve   quickly. 

Soft    Shell    Crabs Take    live    crabs,    plunge    in 

boiling  water  until  hot  through.  To  remove  the 
meat  of  soft  shells,  lift  each  point  or  wing  of  back 
shell,  scrape  out  every  bit  of  spongy  meat.  Turn 
crab  on  back,  remove  the  dark  soft  shell  called 
the  flap,  cut  out  the  same  spongy  substance  under 
it.      Wash  in  cold  water,  dry,   cook  quickly. 


To  Broil  —  Dash  with  melted  butter  or  oil, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  cayenne,  lay  on  wire  broiler. 
Cook  under  oven  flame.  Serve  at  once  on  thin 
slices  buttered   toast.      Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice. 

To    Fry Season    with    salt    and    pepper,    roll    in 

egg,  in  cracker  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat,  serve  with 
lemon    slices. 

Deviled  Crabs — Select  Yl  dozen  heavy  crabs. 
Boil  in  same  way  as  lobsters,  drain,  break  off 
claws,  separate  the  shells,  pick  out  all  the  spongy 
meat,  wash  and  scrub  the  upper  shells,  wipe  ready 
to  stuff.  Prepare  a  cream  sauce:  Bring  I  cup 
cream  nearly  to  boil,  add  1  tbsp.  flour  rubbed  into 
I  tbsp.  butter,  stir  2  minutes.  Take  sauce  from 
stove,  add  crab  meat,  the  mashed  yolks  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  I  tbsp.  bread  crumbs,  1  teasp.  chopped 
parsley,  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Fill  shells  with 
this  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs 
and   brown   in   hot   oven. 

Crab  Meat  Cocktail — To  serve  3  persons:  Put 
ice  cold  crab  meat  in  small  chilled  glasses,  pour 
over  it  this  dressing:  Mix  well  I  tbsp.  tomato 
catsup,  1  tbsp.  grated  horseradish,  1  tbsp.  lemon 
juice,  1  teasp.  mild  vinegar,  I  tbsp.  each  of  minced 
pimiento  and  green  pepper,  season  wfth  salt  and 
pepper,   put   on   ice. 

Shrimps — These  may  be  prepared  in  any  of  the 
ways  given  for  lobsters  or  crabs  with  a  lighter 
seasoning. 

Creamed    Shrimps    with    Tomato    Sauce — Take 

2/3  cup  canned  shrimp,  remove  the  fine  black 
thread  of  intestine,  rinse  in  lightly  salted  water, 
drain,  break  in  small  pieces,  air  for  1 5  minutes. 
Cook  and  stir  2  tbsp.  butter  with  I  tbsp.  chopped 
onion  5  minutes,  add  the  shrimp  with  the  same 
amount  of  boiled  drained  rice,  Yl  CUP  cream. 
Heat  thoroughly,  add  Yl  tbsp.  salt,  pinch  celery 
salt,  cayenne,  Yl  cup  hot  tomato  sauce.  Stir 
lightly,  turn  onto  hot  dish,  garnish  with  toast 
points  and  parsley. 

Creamed  Shrimp  Patties — Make  a  rich  white 
sauce,  add  I  cup  shrimp,  2  chopped  hard-boiled 
eggs,  season  with  salt,  paprika.  Heat,  serve  in 
patty  shells  or  on   toast. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


dllllllMIIIMIIIilllllilinMllillllillUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITTIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll'J: 

<^v>      _  CLASS  1 1 


Ffob  and  Meat  ^Sauces 


-|!IIIIil!lllllllllllli!!lllllllllllll9llllIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMlllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIigilllllllllllllllIllllllllll!lll!lllllllllr. 


A  sauce  to  be  dainty  must  be  neither  too  thick  nor  too  thin  and  must  be 
perfectly  smooth,  free  from  all  lumps.  A  good  proportion  for  the  foundation  or 
"roux"  as  the  French  call  it,  is  2  level  tbsp.  flour  and  2  tbsp.  melted  butter  stirred 
together  and  thinned  slowly  with  1  cup  of  liquid,  seasoned  with  1  saltspoon  pepper, 
'/2  teasp.  salt. 


White  Sauce — This  is  thinned  with  milk.  Heat 
2  tbsp.  butter  until  it  bubbles,  stir  in  2  tbsp.  flour, 
add  gradually  1/3  at  a  time,  1  cup  of  heated  milk. 
When  it  boils  and  is  stirred  perfectly  smooth,  add 
seasonings    of    Yl    teasp.    salt,    few    grains    pepper. 

Cream  Sauce  (for  Croquettes,  etc.) — This  is 
thinned  with  cream.  Make  the  sauce  as  for  white 
sauce,  using  instead  of  the  milk,  1  cup  of  scalded 
cream;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  Y<\  teasp.  celery 
salt,  few  grains  cayenne.  Cream  sauce  should  be 
almost  as  thick  as  butter  and  mixed  while  hot  with 
the    meat    for    croquettes. 

English  Drawn  Butter  Sauce — This  is  thinned 
with  water  or  white  stock.  Melt  2  tbsp.  butter  in 
saucepan.  Mix  in  well  2  tbsp.  flour,  Y'i  teasp.  salt, 
few  grains  pepper.  Add  slowly  1  cup  boiling 
water  or  white  stock,  drop  in  an  extra  lump  of 
butter,   stir  rapidly  until  smooth. 

Egg     Sauce Add     to     drawn     butter     or     white 

sauce  2  raw  egg  yolks  beaten,  a  little  minced 
parsley.  If  this  is  to  be  served  with  fish,  add  one 
minced  hard-boiled  egg,  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  just  before   serving. 

Anchovy  Sauce To  an  unseasoned  drawn  but- 
ter sauce,  add  Y&  teasp.  white  and  cayenne  pepper 
mixed,  1  teasp.  lemon  juice,  1  tbsp.  anchovy  butter 
and   salt   to   taste.      Serve   with  fish. 

Lobster  Sauce — Pound  the  coral  from  1  lobster 
and  mix  with  1  tbsp.  butter;  add  to  a  rich  drawn 
butter  sauce,  season  with  2  tbsp.  lemon  juice, 
pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt.  Simmer  3  minutes,  add 
the  minced  meat  from  1  small  lobster,  boil  up 
quickly  and   serve. 

Sauce  Hollandaise — Beat  I  egg  yolk  into  I  cup 
white  sauce;  add  slowly  1  teasp.  olive  oil,  '/£  saltsp. 
salt,  sugar,  few  grains  cayenne.  When  creamy, 
stir  in  Yl  teasp.  lemon  juice.  Serve  at  once.  If 
the  oil  is  omitted,  add  I  tbsp.  extra  butter  as  the 
sauce    thickens. 

Maitre   d'Hotel   Sauce Use   either   drawn   butter 

sauce  as  a  foundation  or  2  tbsp.  plain  butter 
creamed.       Into   this   work    I    tbsp.    minced   parsley, 


few  drops  onion  juice,  salt,  pepper,  then  1  tbsp. 
lemon  juice  dropped  in  slowly.  Serve  cold  with 
hot  fish   or   meat. 

Tartar  Sauce Fold  into  2  cups  of  stiff  mayon- 
naise this  tartar  dressing:  Yl  teasp.  mustard,  Yl 
teasp.  each  of  chopped  capers,  pickles,  olives, 
parsley,  onion.  Chill  until  ready  to  serve.  If 
mayonnaise  is  not  convenient,  use  instead  I  cup 
highly  seasoned  drawn  butter  sauce.  Stir  in  I 
beaten  egg  yolk  and  add  the  tartar  dressing  of 
mustard,    pickles,    etc. 

Cucumber    Sauce 1.    To    be    Served    Cold    with 

Broiled  or  Panned  Fish — Add  a  pinch  of  soda  to 
Y$  cup  cream  and  whip  stiff.  Peel  several  large 
cucumbers,  remove  seeds,  grate,  drain,  turn  into 
a  chilled  dish,  season  with  I  tbsp.  grated  onion,  1 
tbsp.  lemon  juice,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  white  pepper. 
Fold  the  whipped  cream  carefully  into  the  cucum- 
ber mixture.  Serve  at  once.  If  preferred,  omit 
the  whipped  cream  and  mix  the  minced  cucumbers 
with  a  French  dressing  of  oil,  lemon,  onion,  salt 
and  pepper;  or  of  plain  vinegar,  salt  and  cayenne. 

2.   To  be   Served   Hot  and  Poured   Over  Broiled 

Steak Simmer    for    3    minutes    3    large    cucumbers 

peeled  and  sliced  with  3  large  sliced  onions,  drain, 
season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Boil  until  tender 
in   2   cups  rich  soup  stock  or  steak  gravy. 

Made    Mustard In    a    granite    double    boiler   mix 

1  level  tbsp.  dry  mustard  with  I  teasp.  flour;  add 
Yl  teasp.  salt,  1  tbsp.  melted  butter,  I  teasp. 
sugar  and,  last,  1  tbsp.  vinegar.  Cook  with  Yl 
cup  boiling  water,  stir  until  all  is  smooth.  Serve 
with  boiled  whole  ham  or  boiled  tongue. 

Spanish     Sauce Take      1      tbsp.     each     chopped 

carrot,  onion,  green  pepper,  celery.  Cook  until 
brown  in  Yl  CUP  butter  or  butterine.  Stir  in  2 
tbsp.  flour,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  I  teasp.  mixed  spices, 
1  teasp.  minced  parsley.  Add  gradually  I  cup 
brown  stock,  or  half  stock  or  gravy,  and  half 
tomato  juice.  Cook  all  together  5  minutes,  strain, 
serve. 

Curry    Sauce To    a    white    sauce    add     1     teasp. 

curry   and    if  needed   more   flour  and   seasonings. 


167 


1 68        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Tomato  Sauce — I.  Simmer  1  cup  tomato  juice 
with  Yl  onion  minced,  Yl  teasp.  sugar,  1  bay  leaf, 
Yi  teasp.  minced  parsley.  Add  this  gradually  to 
a  drawn  butter  sauce.  Simmer  3  minutes  until 
smooth  and  creamy.  Serve  with  broiled  steak  or 
chops. 

Tomato    Chili    Sauce To    2    cups    tomato    juice 

add  2  minced  onions,  I  green  pepper,  !4  teasp. 
mustard,  J4  teasp.  salt,  1  teasp.  sugar,  few  grains 
cayenne,  I  teasp.  mixed  spices,  1  cup  vinegar. 
Simmer  30  minutes.  Thicken  if  needed  with  a 
roux    of    flour   and    butter. 

Cold  Tomato  Sauce  (Served  with  Cold  Sliced 
Beef) — Peel  firm  fresh  tomatoes,  mince  fine,  sea- 
son with  few  drops  onion  juice,  salt,  pepper,  I 
tbsp.  salad  oil,  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice.  Chill  and 
serve. 

Horseradish  —  The  oil  in  horseradish,  which 
gives  it  the  sharp  flavor,  is  very  volatile,  so  the 
vegetables  should  be  kept  fresh  by  being  buried 
in  sand,  and  grated  only  as  needed.  If  kept  after 
grating  it  should  be  put  in  sterilized  jars  and 
sealed  with  wax. 

Horseradish  Sauce 1.  Beat  2  tbsp.  horse- 
radish into  a  white  sauce  until  it  is  creamy,  add 
1    teasp.  lemon  juice. 

2.  Mix  together  4  tbsp.  horseradish,  J4  teasp. 
mustard,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  paprika,  Yl  teasp.  sugar, 
1  tbsp.  vinegar.  If  liked,  add  1  mashed  hard- 
boiled  egg  yolk,  and  fold  in  4  tbsp.  stiff  whipped 
cream.     Serve  with  cold  roast  beef  or  corned  beef. 

Onion  Sauce — Peel  and  slice  6  onions,  boil  in 
a  little  salted  water,  stir  to  keep  from  browning. 
When  very  soft  drain,  mix  with  2  tbsp.  flour,  some 
pepper  and  salt  and  stir  in  slowly  1  cup  milk. 
Strain  if  preferred.  Serve  with  mutton  chops, 
cutlets,    game   or   fowl. 

A  brown  onion  sauce  may  be  made  to  serve  on 
beefsteak:  (1)  Fry  sliced  onions  till  brown  and 
stir  in  some  thickened  brown  gravy;  or  (2)  Mince 
soft  boiled  onions  and  mix  with  2  tbsp.  browned 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  to  a  cream  over  the 
fire.      Serve  hot. 

Worcestershire  Sauce — Melt  2  tbsp.  butter  in 
hot  pan.  In  it  brown  3  tbsp.  flour;  add  slowly  I 
cup  brown  stock,  1  tbsp.  Worcester  sauce,  salt 
and  pepper.  Boil  up  for  2  minutes,  serve  with 
steak,    chops   or    cold   roast  beef. 

Brown  Sauce  of  Mushrooms — Make  a  brown 
sauce  of  I  tbsp.  flour  browned  in  1  tbsp.  butter 
and  combined  slowly  with  1  cup  brown  stock. 
Season  with  salt,  2  cloves,  1  bay  leaf,  4  pepper- 
corns. Add  Yz  can  mushrooms.  Simmer  5  min- 
utes and  serve  either  with  or  without  a  glass  of 
sherry  stirred  in  at  the  last  moment. 

Wine  Sauce Prepare  a   brown   sauce  as  above, 

season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  6  cloves. 


Simmer  5  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  stir  in  I 
cup   port   wine    or   champagne. 

Caper  Sauce — Make  a  white  sauce  with  1  cup 
mutton  broth  instead  of  I  cup  milk.  When  done 
and  smooth,  add  1-3  cup  drained  capers.  Serve 
with  mutton.  If  it  is  not  convenient  to  use  capers, 
a  good  imitation  is  neatly  chopped  cucumber 
pickles.  Drain  these  and  stir  into  .the  thickened 
mutton  broth.  When  hot  and  thick  as  cream 
serve. 

Mint  Sauce Dust  1  tbsp.  white  sugar  over  sev- 
eral mint  leaves.  Chop  fine,  cover,  put  aside. 
Mix  1  teasp.  salt,  few  grains  pepper,  in  4  tbsp. 
hot  vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the  sugared  mint. 
Cover  and  stand  1 0  minutes  before  serving  with 
roast   Iamb. 

Sauce  of  Parmesan  Cheese — To  I  cup  white 
sauce  add  Yl  teasp.  onion  juice,  Y$  teasp.  salt, 
pepper.  Stir  till  hot,  add  1  teasp.  butter,  Yl  tbsp. 
Parmesan  cheese,  1  teasp.  lemon  juice.  Stir,  boil 
up  once,   remove  and  serve. 

Bread     Sauce Mince     in     a     saucepan     1     sweet 

pepper  and  I  onion.  Simmer  until  .-soft  in  a  little 
water  and  press  through  a  strainer.  Add  this 
juice  to  1  cup  rich  milk,  Yl  CUP  of  grated  bread, 
Yl  teasp.  salt.  Simmer  3  minutes.  Serve  with 
wild    fowl,    as   partridge    or    grouse. 

Dry  Bread  Sauce — Season  I  cup  milk  with  cel- 
ery salt,  pepper,  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  1  tbsp. 
butter  or  melted  chicken  fat.  Heat  and  add  Yl 
cup  stale  bread  grated.  Toss  this  lightly  about 
in  pan  until  bread  crumbs  are  just  crisp.  Serve 
with   boiled    chicken. 

Celery  Sauce — Stew  1  cup  minced  celery  in  2 
cups  boiling  water  until  tender,  squeeze  through 
a  fine  strainer.  Thicken  this  liquid  in  a  double 
boiler  with  2  tbsp.  flour  rolled  in  2  tbsp.  butter, 
salt,  a  dash  of  paprika.  This  is  improved  by  stir- 
ring in  a  beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Heat  for  1  minute. 
Serve  with  boiled  chicken,  mutton  or  breast  of 
cold  turkey. 

Cranberry  Sauce  —  Select  large  firm  berries, 
wash  and  pick  over  1  quart.  Put  on  with  1  cup 
boiling  water  in  a  double  boiler  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Stew  gently  until  ready  to  mash.  Press 
through  a  colander,  add  a  scant  Yl  CUP  sugar  to 
each  cup  of  juice.  Return  to  saucepan  and  stir; 
boil  1  minute.  Turn  into  molds  to  harden.  Serve 
with  turkey,   roast  pig,   stuffed   fowl. 

Apple  Sauce — Peel,  core  and  cut  into  quarters 
1 2  tart  apples.  Drop  the  quarters  into  cold  water. 
Put  the  cores  and  peeling  in  hot  water,  cover, 
cook  until  tender  enough  to  press  in  a  colander. 
Lift  the  apple  quarters  from  the  cold  water  to  this 
hot     juice.        Simmer     until     soft     enough     to     beat 


CLASS  1  1— FISH  AND  MEAT  SAUCES— RECIPES 


169 


smooth,  add  I  teasp.  lemon  juice,  pinch  of  salt, 
4  tbsp.  sugar.  Stir  I  minute.  If  too  thin,  add  I 
tbsp.  flour  browned  in  1  tbsp.  butter.  Put  aside 
to  cool.      Serve  with  roast  pork,   roast  duck. 

Jelly  Sauce  for  Game — Melt  2  tbsp.  butter, 
brown  in  it  2  tbsp.  flour  and  I  tbsp.  brown  sugar. 
Stir  in  2  tbsp.  boiling  water  till  all  is  smooth. 
When  boiling  hot,  beat  in  2  tbsp.  of  tart  jelly. 
Serve    with    game,    mutton,    lamb    or    turkey. 

Venison  Sauce — Wash  and  seed  whole  raisins  or 
currants.  Boil  1 5  minutes  in  I  cup  water,  then 
add    Yz     CUP    bread    crumbs,     I     tbsp.    butter,    salt. 


pepper,  cloves,  cinnamon,  Yl  teasp.  grated  lemon 
rind.  Simmer  gently  and  when  ready  to  serve 
with   the   venison    add    a    glass   of  port  wine. 

Browned  Nut  Sauce — Brown  Ya  >b.  finely 
chopped  peanuts  or  almonds  in  2  tbsp.  plain  but- 
ter, add  Y&  teasp.  pepper,  2  tbsp.  flour;  stir  in 
slowly  2  cups  rich  milk  and  salt  to  taste.  Cook 
until  smooth  and   thick   as   heavy   cream. 

If  prepared  peanut  butter  is  used  instead  of  the 
dry  nuts,  mix  the  flour  with  only  I  teasp.  plain 
butter.  Add  this  to  the  peanut  butter  and  thin 
slowly   with   the   salted    milk. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


1  70        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


.MIiiiiiiiiiiiililltlllllliillillllllilllllllilllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltillllllilllMlllflllllillllllllllllllL: 

|  1      CLASS  12^c-^    ^ 


E 


995 


?lllllllllllllllllllllllli(IIIIIEIIIIliIIllIltltllllllllil!IIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllr: 


Eggs  are  such  familiar  every-day  articles  of  food  that  hardly  anybody  con- 
siders it  a  problem  to  be  able  to  cook  them  properly.  Yet  there  are  good  and  bad 
ways  of  preparing  eggs.  The  egg  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  muscle-making 
foods  and  when  properly  cooked  is  easily  digested. 

To  Tell  Fresh  Eggs — If  an  egg  is  "strictly  fresh"  it  will,  when  placed  in  a 
pan  of  water,  lie  on  its  side  on  the  bottom. 

If  stale,  it  will  stand  on  end,  and  if  very  old  will  rise  to  the  surface. 

When  just  a  few  days  old  the  egg  will  begin  to  tilt  a  trifle,  and  as  it  ages 
more  and  more  the  angle  at  which  it  tilts  will  increase. 

In  shaking  an  egg,  if  it  makes  a  sound  it  is  not  good  and  should  be  re- 
jected. 

To  keep  yolks  of  raw  eggs  fresh  for  several  days,  drop  unbroken  into  a 
bowl  of  cold  water. 

When  boiling  eggs,  wet  the  shells  thoroughly  with  cold  water  before  plac- 
ing them  in  boiling  water,  and  they  will  not  crack. 

Cracked  eggs  can  be  boiled  by  adding  a  teasp.  salt  to  the  water,  and  they 
will  not  lose  any  of  the  white  or  albumen. 


RECIPES 


Breakfast  eggs  should  never  be  boiled.  A  thin 
shell  of  the  white  is  made  hard  and  indigestible 
while  the  bulk  of  the  egg  is  barely  warmed 
through. 

Boiled  Eggs — For  soft  boiled  eggs  put  6  into 
a  vessel  that  will  hold  2  qts.  Fill  with  boiling 
water,  cover  closely  and  set  on  the  stove  shelf 
for  6  to  8  minutes.  For  medium,  10  minutes; 
for   hard   boiled,    40   to    45    minutes. 

Poached  Eggs — Fill  a  shallow  pan  nearly  full  of 
salted  boiling  water.  As  soon  as  the  water  sim- 
mers, not  boils,  slip  in  the  eggs  one  by  one,  from 
a  dish  into  which  they  have  previously  been 
broken.  Dip  the  water  over  them  with  a  spoon, 
that  the  yolk  may  be  cooked.  When  the  white 
is  firm  and  a  film  has  formed  over  the  yolk,  take 
out  each  egg  with  a  skimmer.  Drain  well,  place 
on  buttered  toast,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper. 
Serve  at  once. 

Poached  eggs  may  be  done  in  milk,  stock  or 
gravy,  which  can  be  poured  over  the  toast  on 
which    they    are    served. 

Griddled     Eggs Heat     the      griddle     almost     as 

much  as  for  baking  cakes,  butter  it  lightly  and 
arrange  small  muffin  rings  on  it.  Drop  an  egg  in 
each  and  turn  as  soon  as  lightly  browned.  They 
resemble  fried  eggs,  but  are  far  more  delicate. 


Scrambled    Eggs — Take     small     piece    of  butter 

and  a  little  cream;  warm  in  a   frying  pan.  Break 

6  eggs  in  it  and  stir  until  slightly  cooked.  Serve 
hot. 

Fried  Eggs — Fried  eggs  may  be  done  in  butter, 
oil,  or  any  sweet  fat;  the  pan  should  hold  enough 
fat  to  almost  cover  the  eggs;  the  eggs  should  be 
slipped  into  the  fat  singly  from  a  cup;  dip  the 
hot  fat  over  them;  do  not  let  the  fat  get  hot  enough 
to  "frizzle"  the  whites.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per.     Serve  at  once. 

Plain    Omelet Break    4    eggs    into    a    bowl,    add 

^2  teasp.  salt,  J/g  teasp.  pepper.  Give  several 
beats  with  a  fork  and  add  milk.  Melt  the  butter 
in  omelet  pan,  pour  in  the  eggs,  shake  over  a 
moderate  fire  until  they  are  set.  Roll  and  turn  into 
hot  dish. 

To  make  jelly,  parsley,  ham,  cheese  or  chicken 
omelet,  spread  the  seasoning  over  the  eggs  just 
before  rolling  them. 

A  Secret  with  Omelets — In  making  omelets  put 
the  salt  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  instead  of  the 
yolk  and  the  omelet  will  not  fall,  but  will  be  dry 
and    puffy. 

To  Fold  and  Turn  Omelets — Hold  an  omelet 
pan  by  the   handle   in   the   left   hand;  with   a   knife 


171 


1  72        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


make  two  inch  cuts  opposite  each  other  at  right 
angles  to  the  handle;  place  knife  under  omelet 
nearest  handle,  tip  pan  slowly  over  a  hot  platter, 
pass  knife  under  omelet  slowly  when  the  omelet 
will  fold   out. 

Light  Omelet — For  each  egg  allow  Ya  teasp. 
salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  I  tbsp.  of  liquid  (milk, 
cream,  stock,  tomato,  etc.),  break  whites  and  yolks 
separately,  beating  each  until  very  light.  Add 
liquid  and  seasonings  to  yolks,  fold  the  yolks  into 
the  whites,  stirring  as  little  as  possible.  Have  the 
omelet  pan  hot,  melt  in  it  I  teasp.  butter,  turn  in 
the  omelet  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  well 
browned  on  the  bottom,  then  set  in  the  oven  until 
the  top  is  set.  Fold  carefully,  not  to  break  the 
crust,  and  turn  into  a  hot  dish.      Serve  at  once. 

This  omelet  is  delicious  made  with  minced  ham, 
green  peas,  1  cup  grated  or  chopped  sweet  corn 
or  asparagus  tips.  The  latter  should  be  well 
cooked,  drained,  seasoned  and  spread  on  just  be- 
fore folding  the  omelet.  The  ham  may  be  folded 
in  or  mixed  through  the  whole  egg. 

Spanish  Omelet — Cut  4  oz.  bacon  in  thin  slices, 
and  then  into  half  inch  squares.  Fry  until  crisp 
and  add  1  small  onion,  I  tomato  chopped  fine  and 
5  mushrooms  chopped  fine.  Cook  for  1  5  minutes. 
Rub  the  spoon  with  a  clove  of  garlic.  Break  6 
eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  Yl  teasp.  salt,  Yi  teasp.  pep- 
per, give  several  strong  strokes  and  turn  into  a 
buttered  frying  pan.  Bake  until  nearly  set,  spread 
the  bacon  and  vegetables  quickly  over,  fold,  set  in 
oven  for  I  minute,  turn  it  upon  a  hot  platter  and 
serve   with   tomato   sauce. 

Rice  Omelet — Warm  I  cup  milk  in  a  double 
boiler,  add  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  and  I  tbsp. 
butter,  stir  and  beat  till  well  blended;  add  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  Yl  teasp.  salt.  Melt  1  tbsp.  but- 
ter in  omelet  pan;  when  hot  turn  the  rice  mixture 
in  and  let  it  brown  1  minute;  put  in  oven  to  set, 
fold  and  serve. 

Chicken    Liver   Omelet Cook     together      1      cup 

minced  cooked  liver  and  Yl  cup  Spanish  sauce  or 
brown  gravy;  add  I  teasp.  vinegar,  1  tbsp.  chopped 
mushrooms,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  few  grains  cayenne. 
Keep  warm  while  preparing  omelet;  make  the 
omelet  following  directions  as  given  for  light 
omelet.  Just  before  folding  spread  with  the  liver 
mixture.     Serve  with  brown  sauce  or  tomato  sauce. 

Omelet  with  Cheese — Beat  4  eggs  very  light, 
add  Yl  cup  milk,  1  teasp.  flour,  a  little  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt,  Yl  teacupful  grated  cheese,  I 
tbsp.  butter.  Beat  all  well  together  and  pour  into 
well  buttered  pan.  Let  it  cook  till  light  brown; 
shake  the  pan  while  omelet  is  cooking.  Serve  at 
once. 

Omelet  with  Oysters — Blanch  1  dozen  small  Blue 
Point  oysters  by  bringing  them  just  to  the  boiling 


point  in  their  own  liquor,  seasoned  with  a  dash 
of  cayenne,  1  saltsp.  of  salt,  and  a  grate  of  nut- 
meg; mix  an  omelet,  place  over  the  fire,  and 
when  it  begins  to  cook  at  the  edges,  place  the 
oysters,  without  any  liquor,  in  the  center,  fold 
.  together   and   serve   at   once. 

Eggs,  Rice  and  Spinach — Boil  and  blanch  a  cup- 
ful of  rice  and  heap  it  on  the  center  of  a  platter. 
With  the  back  of  a  spoon  make  places  for  as  many 
eggs  as  you  wish  to  serve.  Break  each  egg  care- 
fully into  its  place,  and  season.  Place  spinach, 
cooked  and  seasoned,  around  the  edge  of  the  rice. 
Bake  until  the  eggs  are  as  firm  as  you  like  them. 

Curried  Eggs — Cook  I   teasp.  chopped  onion  and 

3  tbsp.  butter  in  small  frying  pan  for  3  minutes; 
add  I  tbsp.  flour  and  1  teasp.  curry  powder;  stir 
until  it  becomes  smooth,  then  add  I  cup  stock, 
Yl  cup  milk,  or  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  cook  for  10  minutes.  Quarter  6  hard-boiled 
eggs,  place  in  a  deep  saucepan,  strain  the  sauce 
over  them,  simmer  for  3  minutes.  Serve  very  hot 
with  toast. 

The  teasp.  of  curry  powder  gives  a  delicate 
flavor.      More    may   be    used   if  desired. 

Scalloped  Eggs — Boil  8  eggs  twenty  minutes. 
Crumble   about   half   of   small   loaf   of  bread.      Put 

4  cups  milk,  3  tbsp.  butter  and  several  sprigs  of 
parsley  in  a  pan  and  heat;  when  hot,  thicken  with 
a  heaping  tbsp.  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Put  into  buttered  baking  dish  first  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  eggs,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  more  butter,  if  desired;  then  a 
few  tbsp.  white  sauce,  and  so  on,  with  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs  on  top.      Bake   30   minutes. 

Deviled  Eggs  —  Cut  4  hard-boiled  eggs  into 
halves,  lengthwise;  remove  the  yolks,  being  care- 
ful not  to  break  the  whites.  Powder  the  yolks 
with  a  silver  fork;  then  add  I  teasp.  mustard,  I 
teasp.  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika  and  cayenne  pepper 
and  1  tbsp.  vinegar  mixed  together;  add  1  tbsp. 
butter  or  olive  oil  or  half  a  cupful  mayonnaise; 
mix  until  smooth  and  fill  into  the  whites;  rough 
the  tops  with  a   fork.      Serve  on  lettuce. 

Creamed  Eggs — Boil  8  or  10  eggs  hard,  put 
into  cold  water,  and  carefully  take  off  shells.  Put 
into  a  deep  dish  and  cover  with  a  drawn  butter 
sauce  made  of  I  pt.  milk,  1  tbsp.  butter,  1  small 
spoonful  cornstarch  and  a  little  salt.  A  very  nice 
tea   dish,    easily   prepared   for   unexpected   guests. 

Stuffed  Eggs  —  Cut  6  hard-boiled  eggs  into 
halves,  crosswise  or  lengthwise.  Rub  the  yolks 
to  a  paste  with  3  tbsp.  minced  ham,  Yl  teasp.  salt, 
Y&  teasp.  pepper,  Yk  teasp.  mustard;  moisten  with 
1  tbsp.  butter  and  1  tbsp.  vinegar;  form  into  balls 
the  size  of  the  yolks  removed  and  pack  into  the 
space  from  which  they  were  taken;  roll  each  in 
a  piece  of  paper  napkin,  twist  the  napkin  at  each 
end.      A    tbsp.    of   highly   seasoned    salad    dressing 


CLASS  1 2— EGGS— RECIPES  173 

may  be  substituted   for  the  butter.      These  make  a  grated   cheese,    1  scant   tbsp.   salt,    I  /3  teasp.    mus- 

nice  picnic  dish.  tard,     '/J     teasp.  pepper,     and     dash  of    paprika. 

Allow  mixture  to  simmer   5   minutes.  Add   3    tbsp. 

Studio    Eggs Boil    I    qt.    milk    I    minute,    add    2  cornstarch,     stir  gently     3     minutes.  Serve     very 

cups  bread  crumbs,  boil  gently  5   minutes,  stirring  hot    on    buttered  toast — not    too   well  toasted— on 

continually.       Add     3    well    beaten    eggs,     2    cups  hot   plates. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


1  74        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiMiiiiiMiHiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiu 
n        CLASS  13      ^V'"^Tv/^ 


1  Lrrtrees  -^SL 


^»  i 


5  |      FORCEMEATS,    CROQUETTES  AND  FRITTERS      5  = 

^iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii? 

Entrees  are  served  before  and  after  the  heavy  meat  course.  In  such  a  place 
they  are  small  and  dainty,  well  flavored  and  often  elaborately  garnished.  They 
may  also  serve  as  the  main  dish  at  family  luncheons  and  suppers  and  frequently 
are  the  means  of  using  to  good  advantage  the  left-overs  of  a  previous  meal. 

All  the  large  variety  of  fritters,  croquettes,  souffles,  timbales  and  aspics  are 
listed  as  entrees. 

Material  for  entrees  should  be  carefully  prepared  and  well  seasoned;  the 
meat  or  fish  should  be  chopped  fine  and  all   ingredients   thoroughly   mixed. 

Almost  all  entrees  are  served  with  an  appropriate  sauce  and  crisp  bread. 
Patties  should  be  served  alone;  timbales  usually  with  cream  sauce  and  peas,  mush- 
rooms or  truffles;  croquettes  are  usually  served  with  peas. 

Forcemeat  is  used  extensively  in  the  making  of  garnishes  and  entrees.  It 
consists  of  meat  chopped  fine,  served  separately  or  used  as  stuffing. 

Croquettes  are  well  adapted  for  using  any  remnants  of  meat,  fish  or  game 
and  to  make  a  savory  dish  from  the  more  insipid  vegetables. 

As  meat  and  fish  lose  flavor  in  a  second  cooking,  it  is  necessary  to  replenish 
this  lack  by  using  stock,  cream  or  broth,  either  in  the  composition  of  the  dish  or 
as  a  sauce  to  serve  with  it.  These  sauces  should  be  thoroughly  cooked  before  the 
meat  or  fish  is  added;  in  order  to  avoid  over-cooking  of  the  protein  substances. 


RECIPES 


Chicken  Forcemeat  —  Chop,  pound  and  rub 
through  a  sieve  enough  chicken  meat  to  fill  I  cup. 
Boil  together  Yl  CUP  nne  stale  bread  crumbs,  Yl 
blade  of  mace,  and  I  cup  cream  until  they  are 
cooked  to  a  smooth  paste,  about  10  minutes;  then 
take  from  the  fire;  add  3  tbsp.  butter,  then  the 
meat,  Yl  tbsp.  salt  and  J/g  teasp.  pepper.  Beat 
whites  of  3  eggs  well  and  add  to  mixture.  Test  to 
make  the  texture  right  and  set  away  to  keep  cool 
until  wanted. 

Game  and  veal  forcemeat  are  prepared  in  the 
same   way. 

To  test  mixture,  drop  a  small  ball  of  it  into  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  set  back  where  it 
will  not  boil;  cook  for  about  10  minutes.  If  it 
cuts  smooth  and  fine  all  through  and  is  tender,  it 
is  just  right;  if  it  should  be  tough,  add  2  tbsp. 
cream  to  each  cup  of  forcemeat;  if,  on  the  con- 
trary, the  forcemeat  ball  is  too  soft  and  shrinks 
when  cut,  add  1  well  beaten  egg  to  every  pint  of 
the  forcemeat. 

Liver  Forcemeat — Put  goose  liver  in  hot  water 
1 5  minutes,  drain  and  cook  slowly  in  salted  water 
for  25  minutes,  pound  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Cook    1    cup   bread    crumbs    in    chicken   stock,    add 


1  teasp.  salt,  J/g  teasp.  pepper,  blade  of  mace;  com- 
bine with  3  cups  liver,  I  cup  butter,  and  3  eggs 
well  beaten;  mix  well  together. 

Chicken,  turkey  or  veal  liver  can  be  substituted. 

Oyster  Forcemeat — Drain  and  wash  I  dozen 
large  oysters,  scald  and  strain  the  oyster  liquor; 
chop  the  oysters  very  fine.  Add  2  cups  bread 
crumbs,  3  tbsp.  butter,  1  teasp.  salt,  Y&  teasp. 
pepper,  1  teasp.  minced  parsley,  a  grate  of  nutmeg, 
1  tbsp.  lemon  juice,  3  tbsp.  oyster  juice,  and  2 
raw  egg  yolks;  pound  to  a  smooth  paste  and  rub 
through  a   sieve. 

Chicken  Quenelles — Use  Yl  calf's  brains,  clean, 
tie  in  a  piece  of  cheesecloth,  and  cook  slowly  for 
half  an  hour  in  well-seasoned  stock.  Cool  and 
pound  smooth,  add  to  1  chicken  breast  also 
chopped  and  pounded,  and  rub  both  through  a 
sieve.  Cook  2  tbsp.  bread  crumbs  and  Ya  cuP  cream 
together  until  a  smooth  panada,  add  the  meat  with 
2  tbsp.  butter,  1  teasp.  salt,  '/?  teasp.  lemon  juice, 
grate  of  nutmeg,  a  few  grains  of  pepper,  and, 
lastly,  1  egg,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  ready 
to  use,  dip  2  teasp.  in  hot  water,  fill  one  spoon 
with  the  mixture  and  slip  from  one  to  the  other 
until  it  is   smooth  and   shaped  like  the  bowl  of  the 


175 


1  76        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


spoon;  slide  on  a  buttered  pan  when  all  are  formed, 
cover  with  boiling  stock,  and  let  cook  below  the 
boiling  point  for  1 0  minutes,  keeping  the  dish 
covered  with  buttered  paper. 

Quenelles  of  Grouse — Use  half  an  anchovy,  chop 
and  pound  with  1  cup  meat,  minced  fine,  and  Yl 
cup  bread  crumbs.  Add  Yl  teasp.  chopped  pars- 
ley, 2  tbsp.  butter,  1  egg,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  Ya  teasp. 
pepper,  Yl  clove  garlic,  and  Yl  teasp.  lemon  juice. 
Mix  altogether  carefully,  cool  and  shape  in  balls 
the  size  of  an  egg.  They  may  be  poached  and 
served  with  a  Bechamel  sauce  or  fried  and  served 
with  any  good  brown  or  mushroom  sauce. 

Lobster  Quenelles — Pound  to  a  paste  the  meat 
and  coral  of  a  lobster;  mix  with  it  2  tbsp.  bread 
crumbs  and  6  tbsp.  butter;  add  Yl  teasp.  salt,  Ya 
teasp.  pepper,  few  grains  cayenne,  and  moisten 
with  2  egg  yolks  and  1  egg  white;  if  it  proves  too 
soft  when  tasted,  add  another  white  of  egg;  if  too 
stiff,  work  in  a  little  water.  Shape  and  poach. 
Serve  with  Tartar  sauce. 

If  served  hot,   the   sauce  should  be  Bechamel. 

These  may  be  cooled  after  poaching,  fried  in 
butter  and  served  as  a  garnish  for  steamed  fish, 
or  in  soup. 

Croquettes The  excellence  of  croquettes  de- 
pends upon  three  things :  (  I  )  The  mixture  must  not 
be  too  thick.  (2)  It  should  be  made  some  time 
before  cooking,  and,  after  rolling  in  eggs  and  fine 
crumbs,  be  set  aside  in  a  cold  place  to  thicken. 
(3)  The  fat  in  which  they  are  cooked  must  be 
boiling  and  deep  enough  to  cover  them;' 

Eggs  used  for  covering  croquettes  may  be  the 
whole  egg  or  the  whites  only;  never  use  the  yolks 
alone.  Beat  the  eggs  until  broken,  not  until  light; 
add  1  tbsp.  water  for  each  white,  or  2  tbsp.  for 
a   whole    egg.      Mix   well   before   using. 

To  Shape  Croquettes — Take  about  a  tbsp.  of  the 
mixture  and  with  both  hands  shape  in  the  form 
of  a  cylinder.  Handle  very  gently  and  carefully. 
Pressure  forces  the  particles  apart,  and  thus  breaks 
the  form.  Have  a  board  sprinkled  lightly  with  fine 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  roll  the  croquettes 
very  gently  on  this.  The  slightest  pressure  will 
break  them,  so  let  them  lie  on  the  board  until  all 
are  finished,  when,  if  any  have  become  flattened, 
roll  them  into  shape  again.  Beat  an  egg  slightly 
and  add  1  tbsp.  water.  Roll  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  and   fry  in  deep   fat  a   golden  brown. 

Chicken  Croquettes — Mix  2  cups  of  chopped 
cold  fowl  with  Yl  teasp.  salt,  few  grains  cayenne, 
1  teasp.  lemon  juice,  Ya  teasp.  onion  juice,  I  teasp. 
chopped  parsley,  and  combine  with  1  cup  white 
sauce.  Shape,  crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain 
on  soft  paper. 


Chicken  and  Cornmeal  Croquettes  (Farmers' 
Bulletin  565,  on  "Cornmeal,"  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agri.) 
—  I  cup  white  corn-meal  mush,  1  cup  chopped 
chicken,  few  drops  onion  juice,  I  egg,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Combine  the  ingredients  and  drop  by  spoon- 
fuls into  hot  fat. 

White  corn-meal  may  be  combined  very  satis- 
factorily with  other  kinds  of  cold  meat  to  make 
croquettes.  In  general,  corn-meal  croquettes  need 
not  be  egged  and  crumbed  like  ordinary  croquettes, 
for  the  hardening  of  the  corn-meal  on  the  surface 
of  the  mixture  forms  the  necessary  crust. 

This  serves  three  people. 

Chicken    Croquettes    with    Mushrooms — Chop     I 

cup  cold  cooked  chicken  and  Yl  can  mushrooms 
or  6  large  oysters  fine.  Melt  2  tbsp.  butter,  add 
3  tbsp.  flour,  mixed  with  Yl  teasp.  salt,  Ya  teasp. 
pepper,  and  1  teasp.  lemon  juice;  then  add  slowly 
Yl  cup  chicken  stock  and  Ya  cuP  mushroom  liquor. 
Cook  until  smooth  and  add  Ya  cup  cream.  Com- 
bine with  the  meat  and  mushrooms.  Cool,  shape, 
and  crumb.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  brown 
paper. 

Royal  Croquettes — Parboil  I  large  sweetbread 
and  I  .calf's  brains;  chop  fine  with  meat  of  half 
a  chicken;  add  one  egg,  well  beaten.  Melt  Ya  cuP 
butter,  add  3  tbsp.  flour,  mixed  with  1  teasp. 
chopped  parsley,  I  teasp.  salt  and  Ya  teasp.  pepper; 
add  cream  or  milk  a  little  at  a  time  until  I  cup 
is  used,  and  cook  until  smooth.  Combine  mixture 
with  the  sauce  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Shape  and 
roll  twice  in  egg  and  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry 
in  deep  fat.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Calf's  Brains  Croquettes — Parboil  1  small  sweet- 
bread and  I  pair  calf's  brains;  chop  very  fine 
with  I  can  mushrooms;  add  Yl  cup  boiled  rice 
and  white  sauce.  Cool  and  shape  into  small  rolls. 
Roll  in  fine  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs  again,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.     Drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve. 

Beef  and  Rice  Croquettes — Mince  the  meat  fine, 
but  not  to  make  it  pasty;  add  an  equal  amount  of 
hot,  boiled  rice,  cooked  much  softer  than  it  is 
usually  served  for  a  vegetable.  Season  highly  with 
salt,  pepper,  cayenne  and  onion  juice  and  set  to 
cool.  If  it  is  too  stiff,  work  in  a  little  stock  or 
gravy.      Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes — Mix  1  teasp.  salt,  Yt> 
teasp.  white  pepper,  a  dust  of  nutmeg,  Yl  teasp. 
chopped  parsley,  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  with  2  cups 
cooked  and  chopped  sweetbreads  and  4  tbsp. 
chopped  mushrooms,  and  set  aside  to  season  while 
making  a  white  sauce  of  2  tbsp.  butter,  2  tbsp. 
flour,  and  I  cup  cream.  Add  the  meat  to  the  sauce, 
and,  lastly,  2  beaten  eggs.  Set  away  to  cool  or 
stiffen  for  2  or  3  hours,  then  shape,  crumb,  and 
fry.  Serve  with  mushroom,  white  sauce,  or 
Bechamel  yellow  sauce. 


CLASS   1  3— ENTREES— RECIPES 


177 


Fish  Croquettes — Use  2  cups  cold  boiled  fish. 
Pick  the  fish  over  carefully  to  remove  skin  and 
bone;  mince  fine;  mix  thoroughly  with  2  cups  hot 
mashed  potato,  I  tbsp.  butter,  Yl  CUP  not  milk, 
I  egg,  1  teasp.  salt,  Y*i  teasp.  pepper,  and  1  teasp. 
chopped  parsley,  and  let  cool.  When  cold,  form 
into  balls,  dip  into  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat.      Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Shad  roe  may  be  used  this  way  instead  of  fish. 

If  canned  salmon  is  used,  substitute  bread  crumbs 
for  the  potatoes  and  an  extra  egg,  omitting  the 
milk. 

Lobster  Croquettes  —  Combine  2  cups  finely 
chopped  lobster  with  1  teasp.  salt,  1  teasp.  mus- 
tard, few  grains  cayenne,  and  1  cup  white  sauce. 
Cool,  form  into  balls,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.      Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Oyster  Croquettes — Drain  and  clean  1  cup  raw 
oysters,  scald  and  strain  the  liquor;  chop  the 
oysters  very  fine,  soak  3  tbsp.  cracker  crumbs  in 
the  liquor;  then  mix  with  I  cup  cooked  veal,  2 
tbsp.  butter,  2  egg  yolks,  and  I  tbsp.  onion  juice. 
Shape,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry.  Drain  on 
brown   paper. 

Tile  Fish  Croquettes — Steam  Yl  H>.  tile  fish  and 
separate  in  flakes.  Melt  1  tbsp.  butter,  add  I  tbsp. 
flour;  stir  until  blended;  add  Yl  CUP  milk,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  boils  and  is  smooth;  then  add 
1  tbsp.  lemon  juice,  I  tbsp.  Chili  sauce,  1  tbsp. 
finely  chopped  parsley,  and  season  with  salt  and 
paprika.  Serve  in  hot  potato  croquettes  hollowed 
in   center. 

Cornmeal     Fish     Balls      (Farmers'     Bulletin     565, 

on   "Cornmeal,"   U.   S.   Dept.   of  Agri.) Two   cups 

cold  white  corn-meal  mush,  1  cup  shredded  cod- 
fish, 1  egg,  1  tbsp.  butter.  Pick  over  the  codfish 
and  soak  it  to  remove  salt,  if  necessary.  Combine 
the  ingredients,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  fat. 
Drain  on  porous  paper.  These  codfish  balls  com- 
pare very  favorably  in  taste  with  those  made  with 
potato,  and  are  prepared  more  easily  and  quickly. 
The   mush  must  be  as  dry  as  possible. 

This  makes    1 2   fish  balls. 

Macaroni    Croquettes Boil    '/£    lb.    macaroni    in 

salted  water  until  very  tender.  Drain,  and  put  into 
saucepan  with  1  heaped  tbsp.  butter,  Yl  oz-  Par- 
mesan cheese,  '/4  oz.  cooked  tongue  cut  in  fine 
dice.  Spread  on  a  well-buttered  platter,  about  an 
inch  thick,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  press  it 
well  down,  and  set  away  to  cool.  Divide  with  the 
back  of  a  knife  into  6  parts,  roll  each  one  in 
grated  cheese,  then  in  beaten  egg  and  crumbs. 
Fry  in  very  hot  fat  till  well  browned.  Drain  and 
serve. 

Rice  Croquettes — Beat  1  cup  hot  boiled  rice  with 
I    teasp.    sugar,     1     teasp.    butter,    Yt,    teasp.    salt,     I 


egg,  and  2  tbsp.  milk  to  the  consistency  of  a  firm 
paste.  Shape  into  oval  balls  and  dip  in  bread 
crumbs,  beaten  egg  and  again  in  bread  crumbs. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  until  brown,  drain  on  soft  paper. 
These  are  nice  with  a  well-plumped  raisin  or  a 
candied  cherry  pushed  into  the  center  before  fry- 
ing.     Serve   with   maple   sauce. 

Potato  Croquettes Season  hot  mashed  potatoes 

with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg;  beat  to 
a  cream  with  1  tbsp.  melted  butter  and  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice;  add  1  beaten  egg  yolk  and 
some  chopped  parsley.  Roll  into  small  balls,  dip 
in  egg  and  milk,  coat  them  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

Timbales  of  Chicken — Chop  2  cupfuls  of  cooked 
white  meat  of  a  chicken  and  pound  it  to  a  smooth 
paste,  adding  Yl  CUP  cream  gradually.  When  well 
mixed,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  1  tbsp. 
finely  chopped  truffles.  Then  add,  one  at  a  time, 
the  unbeaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  mixing  the  first 
with  the  paste  until  it  has  disappeared  before  add- 
ing the  second.  Then  beat  whites  of  2  more  eggs 
to  a  stiff,  dry  froth  and  stir  them  carefully  with 
the  mixture.  Fill  greased  timbale  molds  half  full 
of  the  chicken  paste,  place  them  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  (the  water  should  come  up  as  far  on  the 
outside  of  the  tins  as  the  paste  fills  the  inside). 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  20  or  30  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  a  cream  mushroom  sauce. 

Aspic  Jelly — Cook  5  cups  strong  consomme,  1 
tbsp.  minced  carrot  and  onion,  2  teasp.  lemon 
juice,  and  Ya  cuP  wine  for  1 0  minutes.  Soak  I 
box  gelatine  in  cup  cold  water;  let  stand  20  minutes. 
Pour  the  hot  broth  over  the  soaked  gelatine;  add 
Ya  cup  wine  to  whites  of  2  eggs,  beat  slightly  and 
add  to  broth.  Stir  well  together,  remove  from 
fire,  and  let  stand  30  minutes.  Strain  through 
heavy   cheesecloth. 

Bananas    en    Casserole Peel    6    bananas;    scrape 

off  coarse  threads,  and  cut  in  halves,  lengthwise, 
the  pieces  in  halves,  crosswise.  Put  these  into 
buttered  casserole.  Melt  1  cup  jelly  in  1  cupful 
boiling  water  and  pour  over  bananas.  Add  strained 
juice  of  1  orange  and  1  teasp.  lemon  juice;  cover 
the  dish,  and  cook  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 
Serve  from  casserole  as  a  sweet  entree  with  beef- 
steak, mutton  or  roast  beef. 

Veal  Souffle — Melt  2  tbsp.  butter  without  brown- 
ing, add  2  tbsp.  flour;  stir  until  smooth;  add  I  cup 
cream  and  I  cup  milk;  stir  until  it  thickens.  Add 
2  cups  chopped  cooked  veal  to  the  sauce,  and  when 
thoroughly  heated  add  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Take  from  fire  and  cool.  When  ready  to  use,  beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff,  dry  froth;  mix 
them  gently  with  the  meat  and  sauce.  Turn  into 
a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in.  hot 
oven. 


1  78        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


FRITTERS 


Fritter  Batter  No.  1 — Mix  I  cup  flour  and  Yl 
teasp.  salt;  add  1  cup  milk  gradually  and  1  egg, 
well  beaten.  When  used  for  a  sweet  dish,  add  1 
teasp.   sugar. 

No.  2 — Mix  I  cup  flour,  Yl  teasp.  salt  and  I 
teasp.  baking  powder;  add  Yl  cup  milk  slowly,  then 
I  tbsp.  olive  oil,  and,  lastly,  2  eggs  beaten  till 
stiff. 

Chicken  Fritters — Melt  1  tbsp.  butter,  add  3 
tbsp.  flour  and  Yl  tbsp.  salt;  cook  together.  Add 
gradually  1  cup  chicken  stock  and  cook  until 
smooth  and  thick.  Pour  half  the  sauce  on  a  small 
platter  and  spread  Yl  cup  cold  minced  chicken 
evenly  over  the  top;  then  cover  with  remainder  of 
sauce.  Cool  on  ice  and  cut  into  inch  by  two-inch 
pieces.  Dip  them  in  fritter  batter  No.  2,  fry  in 
deep  hot  fat  until  light  brown,  drain  on  soft  paper, 
and  serve  hot. 

Oyster  Fritters — Pick  over  and  parboil  the  oys- 
ters; drain  them  well,  and  use  their  liquor  in  place 
of  milk  to  make  the  batter  No.  2,  adding  more 
salt    and    pepper    if    desired. 

Vegetable  Fritters — Cook  any  kind  of  vegetable 
thoroughly,  drain  and  chop,  and  add  to  batter, 
either  No.    I    or  2. 


Corn  Fritters — Put  1  can  corn  in  bowl  with  I 
tbsp.  melted'  lard,  add  I  cup  flour  and  1  egg 
slightly  beaten,  then  I  teasp.  baking  powder,  I 
teasp.  salt,  and  \%  teasp.  white  pepper;  if  mixture 
is  very  thick,  add  1  tbsp.  milk.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls on  greased  griddle  and  fry  until  brown  on  both 
sides.      Serve  very   hot. 

Apple  Fritters — Peel  and  core  3  soft,  tart  apples, 
cut  in  round,  thin  slices,  dust  with  sugar  and  cin- 
namon. Beat  2  eggs  light,  add  1  cup  milk,  enough 
flour,  about  1  Yl  cups,  to  make  a  soft  batter,  and 
I  teasp.  salt;  beat  well,  add  I  teasp.  baking  powder, 
beat  again.  Dip  each  slice  of  apple  into  the  batter 
and  drop  into  very  hot,  well-buttered  deep  pan. 
Fry  until  brown.  Serve  hot,  sprinkled  with  sugar 
and   cinnamon. 

Banana  Fritters — Peel  6  bananas,  cut  in  half 
lengthwise,  and  dip  lightly  in  flour  seasoned  with 
salt;  beat  I  egg  with  a  tbsp.  milk,  dip  each  piece 
in  this,  then  roll  in  finely  chopped  nuts.  Fry  in 
very  hot  fat;  drain  carefully;  serve  hot. 

Pineapple  Fritters — Cut  pineapple  in  thin,  small 
sections,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  put  aside  for  I  or 
2  hours,  then  drain.  Roll  each  piece  in  fine  bread 
crumbs,  then  dip  in  batter  No.  I .  Fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  on  soft  paper,  sprinkle  sugar  over,  and  serve 
with  sweet  sauce. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^IIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllMMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllilllliniHIIIHliniiimiililllllilltiNllllIIUIII^ 

I  1  CLASS  14  g^J 

|  |  CHEESE  DISHES 

|  |  CANAPES,  TOASTS,  ETC. 

=  B      I  KNOWN  AS 


S 


avorted 


nilllllMIIIIIIIIIIIMII  llll!lilllHIII!!IIIIIIIIU!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllUiJIIIIIII!lllllllllllllllllllllll]lllll!IIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllln 

Cheese  being  rich  in  protein  takes  the  place  of  meat  so  far  as  the  actual 
nourishment  of  the  body  goes.  It  has  more  fat  than  meat  and  25  percent  more 
muscle-building  substances,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  so  concentrated  a 
food  is  not  a  well  balanced  diet  when  eaten  alone.  It  is  more  easily  digested  when 
grated  or  melted  with  a  pinch  of  soda  added,  or  cooked  with  other  foods.  It  should 
be  accompanied  by  bread,  vegetables  or  fruits  for  bulk,  mineral  salts,  and  water. 

Cheese  should  be  kept  covered  in  a  cool  place.  Old  cheese  may  be  grated 
and  kept  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

CHEESE  AND  ITS  USE  IN  THE  DIET 

(U.  S.  Farmers'  Bulletin  487) 

Cheese  is  believed  to  be  the  oldest  of  the  dairy  products  and  the  first  form  in  which 
milk  was  preserved  for  future  use.  One  may  conjecture  that  it  owes  its  origin  to  the  acci- 
dental storing  and  ripening  of  sour  milk  curd.  Although  it  has  been  a  staple  food  with 
many  races  for  uncounted  years,  there  is  a  widespread  belief  that  it  is  suitable  for  use  chiefly 
in  small  quantities  as  an  accessory  to  the  diet,  and  that  in  large  quantities  it  is  likely  to  pro- 
duce physiological  disturbances.  We  are  inclined,  therefore,  to  think  of  those  who  make 
cheese  one  of  the  chief  articles  of  their  diet  as  being  driven  to  this  course  by  necessity 
rather  than  being  led  to  it  by  choice. 

Because  of  these  opinions  extensive  studies  have  been  carried  on  as  a  part  of  the  De- 
partment Work  in  Home  Economics,  of  the  food  value,  thoroughness  of  digestibility,  ease 
of  digestion,  physiological  effect,  and  special  character  of  cheese  as  food  as  well  as  of  meth- 
ods which  are  followed  in  preparing  it  for  the  table.  The  conclusion  drawn  from  this  ex- 
tended study  is,  in  brief,  that  cheese  properly  prepared  and  used  is  not  generally  a  cause 
of  physiological  disturbances,  and  that  it  may  easily  be  introduced  into  the  bill  of  fare  in 
such  quantities  as  to  serve  as  the  chief  source  of  nitrogenous  food  and  may  be  made  a  sub- 
stitute for  other  nitrogenous  foods  when  such  substitution  is  desired. 

From  the  standpoint  of  the  housekeeper,  cheese  is  of  importance  because  of  its  high 
nutritive  value,  particularly  its  high  percentage  of  protein  or  muscle-forming  materials,  be- 
cause of  the  ease  with  which  it  can  be  kept  and  prepared  for  the  table,  and  because  of  its 
appetizing  flavor  and  of  the  great  variety  of  ways  in  which  it  can  be  served. 


There  is  something  to  be  said  of  the  value  of 
cheese  to  that  not  inconsiderable  number  of  indi- 
viduals "who  must  occasionally  cater  for  themselves 
those  men  and  women  in  business  life,  for  ex- 
ample, who  find  it  convenient  neither  to  carry 
lunches  nor  to  go  to  restaurants.  For  these,  cheese 
offers  a  convenient  way  of  supplying  the  necessary 
protein,  for  it  can  usually  be  obtained  in  good  con- 
dition in  any  neighborhood.  Combined  with 
crackers,     some    of    the    ready-cooked    cereals,     or 


bread,    and    with    fruit,    it    makes    a    fairly    well-bal- 
anced  meal. 

The  average  cheese  while  fresh  and  moist  con- 
tains proteids  and  fat  in  much  the  same  ratio  as 
that  in  which  they  are  found  in  the  milk.  More 
that  one-fourth  its  weight  is  proteid,  about  one- 
third  fats,  and  one-third  water.  There  are  always 
present  small  amounts  of  albumen  and  sugar  which 
have  clung  to  the  curd.  Owing  to  the  addition 
of  salt,  the  percentage  of  mineral  matter  is  high 
compared  with  that  of  most  other  foods. 


179 


1 80        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


THE   CARE   OF   CHEESE   IN  THE  HOME 

One  of  the  best  ways  of  keeping  cheese  which 
has  been  cut  is  to  wrap  it  in  a  slightly  damp  cloth 
and  then  in  paper,  and  to  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 
To  dampen  the  cloth,  sprinkle  it  and  then  wring  it. 
It  should  seem  hardly  damp  to  the  touch.  Paraffin 
paper  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  cloth.  When 
cheese  is  put  in  a  covered  dish,  the  air  should 
never  be  wholly  excluded,  for  if  this  is  done,  it 
molds  more  readily. 

In  some  markets  it  is  possible  to  buy  small  whole 
cheeses.  These  may  be  satisfactorily  kept  by  cut- 
ting a  slice  from  the  top,  to  serve  as  a  cover,  and 
removing  the  cheese  as  needed  with  a  knife,  a 
strong  spoon,  or  a  cheese  scoop. 

CHEESE    AS    A    FOOD 

Cheese  is  used  in  general  in  two  ways — in 
small  quantities  chiefly  for  its  flavor,  and  in  large 
quantities  for  its  nutritive  value  as  well  as  for  its 
flavor.  Some  varieties  of  cheese  are  used  chiefly 
for  the  first  purpose,  others  chiefly  for  the  second. 
Those  which  are  used  chiefly  for  their  flavor,  many 
of  which  are  high  priced,  contribute  little  to  the 
food  value  of  the  diet,  because  of  the  small  quan- 
tity used  at  a  time.  They  have  an  important  part 
to  play,  however,  in  making  the  diet  attractive  and 
palatable. 

Those  cheeses  which  are  suitable  to  be  eaten  in 
large  quantities  and  which  are  comparatively  low 
priced  are  important  not  only  from  the  point  of 
view  of  flavor,  but  also  from  the  point  of  view  of 
their  nutritive  value.  Among  such  cheeses  the  one 
which,  as  noted  above,  is  known  to  the  trade  as 
standard  factory  cheese  and  to  the  housewife  as 
American  cheese  stands  out  pre-eminently.  There- 
fore, when  the  word  "cheese"  is  used  without 
specification  in  the  following  pages  it  may  be  taken 
to  refer  to  this  particular  variety. 

The  liking  for  highly  flavored  cheeses  of  strong 
odor  is  a  matter  of  individual  preference,  but  from 
the  chemist's  standpoint  there  is  no  reason  for  the 
statement  often  made  that  such  cheeses  have  under- 
gone putrefactive  decomposition. 

COMPOSITION    OF    CHEESE    AND    SOME 
OTHER    FOODS    COMPARED 

In  the  present  state  of  our  knowledge  concern- 
ing dietetics,  it  seems  best  to  give  the  housekeeper 
general  rather  than  absolute  rules  with  respect  to 
the  kind  and  amount  of  food  which  should  be  eaten 
at  any  meal  or  at  any  given  time  by  persons  in 
normal  health  living  under  usual  conditions.  It  is 
not  necessary,  therefore,  for  the  housekeeper  to 
know  the  exact  composition  of  food  materials  in 
order  to  cater  well  for  her  family,  a  rough  approxi- 
mation being  sufficient  for  the  purpose.  In  the  case 
of  cheese,  she  will  be  near  enough  to  the  fact  if 
she  thinks  of  it  as  composed  approximately  of 
equal  parts  by  weight  of  proteids,  fats,  and  water. 
This   rough   conception   is   sufficient   to   associate  it 


in  her  mind  with  the  foods  of  high  proteid  value, 
a  point  which  is  important  in  connection  with  the 
making  of  bills  of  fare.  It  should  lead  her  to  class 
it  also  with  the  foods  which  are  rich  in  fat  and 
prevent  her  from  combining  it  unnecessarily  with 
other  fatty  foods. 

The  total  amount  of  the  mineral  matter  needed 
per  day  by  the  body  is  relatively  small,  yet  mineral 
matter  is  very  important.  It  is  commonly  assumed 
and  is  probably  true,  that  a  mixed  diet  reasonably 
varied  and  reasonably  generous  will  supply  all  the 
ash  constituent  which  the  body  requires.  If  for 
any  reason  calcium  and  phosphorus  are  lacking  in 
the  diet,  the  amounts  may  be  readily  increased  by 
a  free  use  of  milk  and  such  milk  products  as  cheese 
and  junket,  without  decreasing  the  palatability  of 
the  diet  or  materially  increasing  its  cost. 

Since  cheese  is  ready  to  be  eaten  when  it  comes 
from  the  market,  it  may  be  more  interesting  for 
some  purposes  to  compare  its  composition  with 
that  of  cooked  beef,  freed  from  bone  and  from 
superfluous  fat,  such  a  piece  as  would  be  served 
to  a  person  at  the  table.  Weight  for  weight,  cheese 
has  appreciably  more  protein  than  such  cooked 
beef,  and   50  per  cent,   more  fat. 

THE   DIGESTIBILITY    OF    CHEESE 

As  was  stated  above,  cheese  has  been  thought  a 
cause  of  digestive  disturbances,  but  work  recently 
done  by  the  Office  of  Experiment  Stations,  in  co- 
operation with  the  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry,  and 
briefly  summed  up  in  a  recent  publication,  tends 
to  disprove  this. 

The  statement  refers  to  full-cream  cheese.  Ex- 
periments made  at  the  same  time  gave  practically 
the  same  values  for  the  digestibility  of  skim-milk 
cheese,  of  Swiss  cheese,  of  Roquefort  and  Camem- 
bert  cheese,  and  of  cottage  cheese. 

The  burning  sensation  or  similar  sensations  some- 
times experienced  after  eating  certain  sorts  of 
cheese  has  been  attributed  to  the  presence  of  small 
amounts  of  free  fatty  acids.  It  is  commonly  said 
that  cheese  is  difficult  to  digest,  the  idea  being  that 
the  body  expends  more  labor  in  assimilating  it  than 
is  required  for  other  comparable  foods.  Experi- 
ments recently  carried  on  by  the  Office  of  Experi- 
ment Stations,  in  which  the  respiration  calorimeter 
was  used  to  study  the  energy  expenditure  during 
the  period  of  active  digestion,  do  not  indicate  that 
cheese  differs  materially  in  ease  of  digestion  from 
a  comparable  amount  of  meat.  Uncooked  full- 
cream  cheese  was  used  in  these  experiments. 
Another  series  recently  begun  by  the  Office  of 
Experiment  Stations  with  cooked  cheese,  though 
not  yet  sufficiently  advanced  to  be  conclusive,  in- 
dicates that  cheese  thus  eaten  does  not  differ  ma- 
terially from  raw  cheese  in  this  respect. 

In  connection  with  the  use  of  cooked  cheese  in 
the  diet,  one  fact  should  always  be  kept  in  mind. 
This  is  that,  in  common  "with  all  other  fatty  foods, 
cheese    which    has    been    overheated    in    cooking    is 


CLASS  1 4— SAVORIES— CHEESE 


181 


likely    to    contain    burned — that    i3,    decomposed 

fats.  Disturbances  from  this  cause,  however,  should 
be  laid  to  poor  cooking  and  not  to  the  composition 
of  this  special  food. 

Curds  and  Whey 

Cheese  curds  and  whey,  an  old-fashioned  dish, 
which  is  often  spoken  of  in  accounts  of  life  in 
earlier  times,  sometimes  refers  to  sour-milk  curd 
and  sometimes  to  curd  separated  with  rennet.  This 
dish,  when  made  with  rennet,  is  much  like  junket 
and  though  far  less  common  today  than  was  once 
the   case,   is  wholesome  and  palatable. 

Cottage    Cheese 

This  cheese  is  very  commonly  prepared  in  the 
home,  and  the  process  of  making  it  is  very  simple. 
It  consists  merely  of  curdling  the  milk,  separating 
the  curd  from  the  whey,  seasoning,  and  pressing  it. 

The  curd  is  formed  by  the  souring  of  the  milk, 
and  the  process  is  hastened  if  the  milk  is  kept  warm, 
the  best  temperature  being  about  blood  heat,  96 
degrees  F.  A  temperature  much  above  this  should 
be  avoided,  as  the  curd  is  likely  to  become  hard 
and  tough  if  much  heated.  The  danger  is  usually 
not  that  the  whole  will  be  overheated  but  that  the 
portion  nearest  the  fire  will  be.  In  the  old-fash- 
ioned kitchen  there  was  usually  a  place  where  the 
milk  could  stand  till  it  was  uniformly  warm  through- 
out. With  our  present  cooking  arrangements  it 
is  often  desirable  to  hasten  the  process.  This  may 
be  done  by  setting  the  milk  into  a  pan  of  warm 
water  or  by  pouring  hot  water  directly  into  the 
milk  itself.  The  effect  of  the  latter  method  is  to 
remove  much  more  of  the  acid  than  when  the 
whey  is  left  undiluted.  Some  consider  this  a  great 
advantage. 

If,  for  any  reason,  the  curd  is  overheated,  it 
should  be  put  through  a  meat  chopper.  This  will 
insure  cottage  cheese  of  excellent  texture. 

If  the  milk  is  thoroughly  chilled  before  the  whey 
is  drained  off  it  retains  more  of  the  fat  than  if 
this  is  done  when  warm.  Under  no  circumstances, 
however,  is  much  of  the  fat  retained  in  cottage 
cheese.  It  is  therefore  more  economical  to  make 
it  out  of  skim  milk  and  to  add  the  fat  to  the  curd 
in  the  form  of  butter  or  cream. 

Chopped  parsley,  caraway  seeds,  chopped  olives, 
and  pimiento  may  all  be  used  for  flavoring  if  such 
flavored  cheese  is  preferred  to  plain  cottage  cheese. 

Cottage  cheese  is  most  commonly  consumed 
immediately,  but  if  made  in  quantity  for  commer- 
cial purposes,  it  may  be  packed  in  tubs  and  placed 
in  cold  storage.  Sometimes  it  is  formed  into  roll* 
or  blocks  and  wrapped  in  tinfoil  when  marketed. 
Such   cheese  is  used  without  ripening. 

Though  cottage  cheese  is  usually  made  by  allow- 
ing the  milk  to  sour  naturally,  it  is  sometimes  more 
convenient  to  curdle  the  milk  by  adding  rennet, 
and  some   housekeepers  have  a  preference  for  cot- 


tage cheese  thus  made,  since  the  flavor  is  milder 
and  the  acid  taste  which  it  possesses  when  made 
from  sour  milk  is  lacking. 

Sour-Cream  Cheese 

When  cream  is  to  be  made  into  cheese  similar 
to  cottage  cheese,  it  should  be  drained  without 
having  previously  been  heated.  The  drainage  is 
facilitated  by  moistening  the  cloth  in  salt  water  be- 
fore the  cream  is  poured  in.  The  curd  is  formed 
either  by  souring  or  by  the  addition  of  rennet. 

Uncooked  Curd,  or  French  Cottage  Cheese 
The  French  make  cheese  from  sour  milk  without 
heating  it.  They  pour  the  milk  into  earthen  molds 
which  have  holes  in  the  bottom.  A  very  fine  sieve 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  molds.  The  whey 
drips  out  and  the  curd  assumes  a  custardlike  con- 
sistency  and  takes  the  shape  of  the  mold.  When 
sufficiently  stiff,  the  cheese  is  chilled,  and  is  eaten 
with  sweet  cream  and  sugar.  It  is  a  staple  dessert 
in  many  French  families,  especially  in  hot  weather, 
and  is  delicious  served  with  acid  fruit,  such  as  cur- 
rants, or  with  strawberries. 

Junket 

If  cottage  cheese  is  made  from  sweet  milk  and 
rennet  and  served  without  breaking  and  separating 
the  curd  and  whey,  the  dish  is  called  junket.  It 
is  customary  to  season  it  a  little,  as  with  grated 
nutmeg  or  with  cinnamon  and  sugar. 

Buttermilk   Cheese 

At  the  Wisconsin  Experiment  Station  a  method 
has  been  devised  for  making  a  soft,  moist  cheese 
out  of  buttermilk.  When  made  on  a  large  scale, 
as  it  might  be  in  creameries,  there  are  various  pre- 
cautions to  be  taken,  which  are  pointed  out  in  the 
publication  cited.  In  making  it  in  small  quantities, 
these  precautions  are  unnecessary,  and  the  method 
is  even  simpler  than  that  of  making  cottage  cheese, 
because  the  quality  does  not  depend  so  much  on 
the  temperature. 

To  make  the  buttermilk  cheese,  heat  buttermilk 
gradually  to  about  130  or  140  degrees  F.  Allow 
it  to  cool,  and  strain  it.  As  the  curd  will  settle  to 
the  bottom,  most  of  the  whey  may  be  poured  off 
before  the  draining  is  begun. 

This  cheese  is,  of  course,  almost  wholly  without 

fat,    and    yet probably    because    the    particles    of 

curd  are  very  finely  divided — it  has  a  smooth  con- 
sistency, which  suggests  the  presence  of  fat.  It  may 
be  served  seasoned  with  salt  only,  or  it  may  be 
mixed  with  butter  or  cream  and  seasonings.  It  is 
suitable  for  combining  with  olives  and  pimientos, 
or  for  any  use  to  which  the  ordinary  cream  cheeses 
are  put. 

Buttermilk  Cream 

This  product  also  was  devised  by  the  Wisconsin 
Experiment  Station.  By  controlling  the  tempera- 
ture in  heating  the  buttermilk  and  not  allowing  it 


1 82        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


to  go  above  1 00  degrees  F.,  a  compound  is  made 
which  after  draining  has  the  consistency  of  a  very 
thick  cream.  It  is  claimed  by  the  station  investi- 
gators that  this  "cream"  is  suitable  for  eating  on 
bread  in  place  of  butter. 

Devonshire   Cream 

Devonshire  cream  somewhat  resembles  sweet 
cream  in  flavor  and  consistency.  It  is  very  much 
liked  in  England,  where  it  is  commonly  eaten  with 
fresh  or  preserved  fruit,  but  is  not  so  well  known 
in  America. 


To  make  Devonshire  cream,  allow  a  pan  of  whole 
milk  to  stand  for  24  hours  in  a  cool  place,  or  for 
12  hours  in  a  warmer  place.  Place  the  pan  on 
the  cooler  part  of  the  stove  and  heat  until  the  milk 
is  very  hot,  but  not  to  the  boiling  point.  If  heated 
too  much,  a  thick  skin  will  form  on  the  surface. 
The  more  slowly  the  milk  is  heated  the  better. 
Having  been  heated,  the  milk  should  be  kept  in 
a  cool  place  for  24  hours  and  then  skimmed.  The 
thick  cream  obtained  has  a  characteristic  flavor  and 
texture. 


RECIPES 


Cheese  with  Vegetables  —  Grated  or  divided 
cheese  may  be  combined  with  vegetables  and  baked, 
or  melted  in  a  hot  milk  sauce  and  poured  over, 
or  served  separately,  to  be  added  to  hot  vegetables 
at  the  table  by  those  who  like  the  cheese  mixture. 

Creamed  Potatoes  with  Cheese — Boil  and  cream 
2  cupfuls  of  potatoes,  or  turnips,  or  cabbage. 
Turn  gas  very  low;  add  to  the  potatoes  2  to  4  tbsp. 
chopped  or  grated  cheese;  stir  gently  until  melted. 
Serve  at  once. 

Kidney  Beans  with  Cheese — Soak  Yl  >b-  kidney 
beans  overnight.  Cook  slowly  1  hour;  add  1 
chopped  green  pepper.  Cook  until  beans  are  ten- 
der, then  add  Yl  lb.  cheese  cut  in  small  dice. 
When  cheese  is  melted,  serve  beans  quickly  with 
hot  toast  or  crackers. 

Creole  Rarebit — Melt  I  tbsp.  butter  in  hot  skillet 
or  chafing  dish;  add  !4  grated  onion,  Yl  chopped 
green  pepper,  Yl  can  tomatoes.  Cook  slowly  10 
minutes.  Stir  in  Yl  CUP  grated  cheese'  and  1  well- 
beaten  egg  seasoned  with  a  dash  of  red  pepper 
and  Yl  teasp.  salt.  Continue  to  stir  until  the 
whole  is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Serve  hot  on 
toast. 

This  may  be  varied  by  adding  Yl  CUP  oi  minced 
ham   mixture  to  the   tomatoes. 

Cream  Tomato  Rarebit — Stew  1  cup  tomatoes, 
add  pinch  of  soda.  Let  come  to  boil  and  strain. 
Keep  hot.  With  2  tbsp.  hot  butterine  blend  2  tbsp. 
flour.  Add  slowly  I  cup  of  cream  or  half  cream 
and  half  milk.  Stir  until  boiling,  add  a  dash  of 
pepper,  mustard,  I  teasp.  salt.  Stir  into  this  the 
strained  tomato,  until  mixture  is  smooth.  Add  2 
cupfuls  cheese,  2  beaten  eggs.  When  thoroughly 
blended,   serve  hot  on  toast. 

Welsh  Rarebit — Into  2  tbsp.  melted  butter  stir 
1  tbsp.  flour.  Add  gradually  Yl  c«P  ricn  sweet 
milk.  Cook  for  15  minutes.  Add  Ya  N>-  diced 
cheese,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  pinch  paprika,  !4  teasp. 
white  pepper.  Stir  until  cheese  has  melted  and 
mixture  is  smooth  and  creamy.  Pour  over  hot 
crackers. 

Welsh  Rarebit — Dissolve  1   heaping  dessert-spoon 


of  cornstarch  in  Yl  CUP  cream,  add  1  beaten  egg 
into  this  mixture,  add  I  tb .  American  or  Swiss 
cheese  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  double  boiler, 
and  stir  until  melted  and  about  to  thicken;  then 
add  glass  of  beer  or  ale;  continue  to  stir,  season- 
ing with  salt  and  paprika  to  taste.  Stir  until  right 
consistency  for  serving.  Serve  hot  on  rye  bread 
or  toast. 

Welsh  Rarebit  au  Gratin — Cut  Yl  A>  •  Swiss 
cheese  into  1 -inch  slices;  lay  6  slices  thin  toast  in 
a  dripping  pan,  cover  each  with  slices  of  cheese 
spread  with  mustard  and  dust  lightly  with  salt  and 
pepper.  The  addition  of  a  dropped  egg  to  each 
slice  makes  what  is  often  called  a  Golden  Buck. 

Cheese  Straws — Chop  Yl  tbsp.  butter  into  5 
tbsp.  flour  sifted  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  cayenne. 
Add  Yl  CUP  bread  crumbs,  3  tbsp.  grated  cheese. 
Mix  well;  add  I  tbsp.  milk.  Knead  this  stiff  dough, 
roll  into  a  sheet  Ya  inch  thick.  Cut  into  strips  1  /3 
inch  wide.      Bake  in  a  moderate  oven    1 0  minutes. 

Fruit  and  Cheese — To  each  cup  of  diced  apples 
add  Yl  cupful  chopped  figs  or  grapes,  I  peeled 
orange  cut  into  small  pieces.  Heap  fruit  in  center 
of  dish  and  arrange  a  border  of  cottage  cheese 
around  fruit.  Pour  over  all  thick  sour  cream  or 
a  salad  dressing.      Sprinkle  with  nuts. 

Cottage    Cheese    (Schmier-Kaese) Set    a    qt.    or 

more  of  thick  sour  milk  in  warm  water  or  oven. 
Increase  the  temperature  to  180  degrees  (Fahr. ) 
and  keep  there  for  an  hour  until  whey  is  well  sep- 
arated and  curd  feels  firm.  Drain  in  cheesecloth 
bag  for  several  hours.  Remove  and  mix  with  salt 
and   cream,   sweet  or  sour,   to  taste. 

Cheese  au  Gratin — Into  a  deep  buttered  baking 
dish  lay  4  buttered  slices  of  bread.  Mix  Ya  lb. 
grated  cheese  with  a  pinch  salt,  cayenne.  Scatter 
this  over  the  bread.  Beat  several  eggs  and  mix 
with  3  cups  milk.  Pour  over  the  bread  and  cheese. 
Let  stand  about  I  hour.  Bake  20  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

This  mixture  of  cheese,  eggs,  milk  and  season- 
ings may  be  added  to  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and 
heated  in  a  buttered  chafing  dish.    Stir  until  cooked 


CLASS  1 4— SAVORIES— RECIPES 


183 


into  a  creamy  form  and  pour  it  over  toasted 
crackers.  This  is  sometimes  called  "English  mon- 
key." 

English  Woodcock — Make  a  smooth  cream  sauce 
with  2  tbsp.  flour  stirred  into  2  tbsp.  melted  butter, 
and  2  cups  heated  milk  added  slowly.  Add  4  hard 
boiled  eggs  cut  into  quarters,  1  Yl  cup  asparagus 
tips  cut  into  inch  pieces,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  paprika  and 
anchovy  essence  to  taste.  When  hot,  serve  on 
small  squares  of  toast. 

Breakfast  Cheese  Dishes 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Cheese Beat   6  eggs.      Stir 

in  I  cup  milk,  I  teasp.  salt,  '/g  teasp.  pepper. 
Scramble  in  hot  pan  with  I  tbsp.  melted  fat.  When 
nearly  done,  add  2  tbsp.  grated  cheese.  Serve  on 
toast. 

Golden  Buck — Toast  6  slices  bread,  poach  6 
eggs  and  keep  hot.  Boil  up  once,  I  cup  milk,  add 
1  tbsp.  butter  or  butterine,  salt,  mustard,  paprika 
to  taste,  and  2  cups  cheese,  grated.  Stir  until 
cheese  melts.  Pour  hot  cheese  mixture  to  cover 
each  slice  of  toast.  Place  a  poached  egg  on  top 
of  each.      Salt  and  pepper  the  eggs.      Serve  hot. 

Cheese  Sandwich — Lay  slices  of  cheese  on  thin 
slices  white  bread,  slightly  melt  cheese  under  oven 
flame.  Top  with  bread  and  brown  these  sandwiches 
on   both   sides   in   a   hot   buttered   skillet.      Serve   at 


Pimiento  Cheese  Sandwich  —  Mix  well  finely 
chopped  pimientoes  from  I  can,  1  tbsp.  minced 
sour  pickles,  salt,  paprika,  1  teasp.  onion  juice  and 
I   cup  grated  cheese.    Spread  on  lettuce  sandwiches. 

Canapes — A  canape  is  usually  a  savory  mixture 
of  some  sort,  forcemeat,  eggs  or  cheese,  spread  on 


buttered  toast  or  J4  inch  sliced  bread  cut  into 
squares,  diamonds  or  strips  and  browned  in  deep 
fat.  Canapes  are  served  hot  or  cold  and  usually 
take  the  place  of  oysters  at  dinner. 

Liver  and  Bacon  Canapes — Chop  crisp  fried 
bacon  and  liver  cooked  tender;  mix  with  a  little 
stiff  mayonnaise  and  spread   on   toast. 

Ham — Mix  Yl  CUP  minced  ham,  2  tbsp.  melted 
butter,  1  teasp.  chopped  parsley.  Spread  on  bread 
fried  brown  in  hot  fat. 

Tomato  Canapes — On  each  round  slice  of  but- 
tered toast  lay  a  thick  round  slice  of  tomato.  Top 
this  with  1  teasp.  mayonnaise  sprinkled  with  water- 
cress or  minced  hard  boiled  egg. 

Fish  Canapes Whole  or  mashed  sardines  sea- 
soned with  paprika  and  lemon  juice  laid  on  strips 
of  toast  or  crackers,  or  salmon  and  lobster  mashed 
and  mixed  with  mayonnaise  heaped  lightly  on  dia- 
mond-shaped   buttered    toast. 

Cheese  Canapes — Press  Yl  lb-  sort  cheese  through 
colander.  Mix  with  Yl  CUP  sweet  cream  or  milk, 
season  with  salt,  paprika,  mustard,  1  teasp. 
Worcestershire  Sauce.  Slice  bread  rather  thick, 
trim  crusts  and  cut  in  two  diagonally.  Spread  be- 
tween slices  with  cheese  mixture.  Brown  the 
sandwich  in  hot  fat.  When  brown  and  crisp  serve 
at  once. 

Anchovy  Canapes — Wash  and  bone  6  anchovies, 
pound  them  to  a  paste  with  two.  hard  boiled  egg 
yolks,  4  tbsp.  butter,  Ya  teasp.  salt,  few  grains 
Cayenne  pepper,  Yl  teasp.  lemon  juice.  Fry  six 
croutes  of  bread,  spread  with  the  above  paste,  and 
sprinkle  over  them  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs 
chopped  very   fine. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


1 84       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU: 

45hffiaS^^B»  CLASS  15  | 

^Jafads  and  | 

^!inillMUIIIIIII!illllIIIIII!E[i!l[I!HIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII[llllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIli? 

FOOD   VALUE   OF  SALADS 

(Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture) 

A  well  prepared  salad  is  an  excellent  food.  Salads  supply  water,  mineral 
salts,  acids,  cellulose  and  flavor  to  the  diet. 

The  ingredients  should  be  fresh  and  cold  and  it  should  be  pleasing  in  appear- 
ance as  well  as  flavor. 

A  great  variety  of  materials  are  used  in  salads:  fruits,  green  and  cooked 
vegetables,  eggs,  meat,  fish,  cheese,  nuts,  etc. 

Green  vegetables  should  be  crisp,  cold  and  dry  when  served.  If  water  is 
left  on  the  leaves  the  salad  and  salad  dressing  will  be  poor  in  flavor. 

Salad  dressing  should  be  added  just  before  time  of  serving  as  the  salad  ma- 
terial wilts  if  allowed   to   stand  after   the  dressing  has  been  added. 

VALUE  IN  DIET 
Fruits  and  Vegetables 

1.  Supply  water.  4.   Supply  cellulose. 

2.  Supply  mineral  salts.  5.   Supply  flavor. 

3.  Supply  acids.  6.   Supply  variety. 
Salad   vegetables   often  contain   90   per   cent,    or 

more    of   water,    which    in    itself    is    useful    in    the 
system  in  many  ways. 

They  furnish  only  a  small  quantity  of  protein, 
which  varies  from  1.5  to  4  per  cent.  In  addition, 
they  contain  cellulose,  chlorophyll,  sugars,  gum, 
pectin  and  sometimes  a  little  fat. 

SALADS 


Cheese 

Camembert 

American 

Cream 

Neufchatel 

Parmesan 

Cottage 

Fruit 

Apples 

Bananas 

Cherries 

Currants 

Grapes 

Oranges 

Peaches 

Pears 

Pineapple 

Avocado 

Grapefruit 

Eggs 


MATERIALS   USED    II 

Nuts 

Peanuts 

Walnuts 

Raw  Vegetables 

Pecans 

Lettuce 

Almonds 

Tomatoes 

Filberts 

Cucumbers 

Brazil  nuts 

Radishes 

Hickory 

Onions 

Butternuts 

Dandelion  tops 

Black 

walnuts 

Cabbage 

Cress 

Chickory 

Meat 

Celery 

Chicken 

Green  Peppers 

Veal 

Bacon 

Cooked  Vegetables 

Ham 

White  potatoes 

Roast  Pork 

Kidney  beans 

Fish 

Asparagus  tips 

Beets 

Halibut 

Peas 

Salmon 

Carrots 

Bass 

Pimientoes 

Pike 

Spinach 

Sardines 

(canned) 

Tuna 

Codfish 

Fish  flakes 

185 


1 86        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


POINTS  TO 

Meat,  fish,  eggs  and  cheese  supply  protein  and 
fat  in  the  diet.  Starchy  vegetables  supply  fuel 
food.  Salad  dressings  supply  fuel  food.  Salad 
plants  should   be: 

I.    Tender.  2.    Cold.  3.    Crisp. 

Salad  materials  should  not  be  crushed  and 
should  be  symmetrical  in  shape.  Gather  green  vege- 
tables in  the  early  morning  or  after  sunset;  keep 
in  a  cool  place  (not  directly  on  ice)  and  keep 
closely  wrapped  in  waxed  paper. 


REMEMBER 

Vegetables  should  be  carefully  dried  and  exposed 
to  the  air  far  a  few  minutes  before  adding  the 
dressing,  as  water  and  oil  do  not  mix. 

Salads  dressed  at  the  table  should  first  be  sprin- 
kled with  salt  and  pepper,  then  oil  added,  and, 
lastly,   vinegar   or  lemon  juice. 

A  salad  is  perfectly  dressed  when  each  individual 
leaf  or  bit  of  vegetable  is  lightly  coated  with  oil 
or  appropriate   dressing. 


MAKING   SALADS 


The  first  step  in  making  a  good  salad  is  to  have  good  materials,  fresh,  crisp 
vegetables  raw  or  carefully  cooked,  good  oil  and  vinegar.  Prepare  these  with  care, 
wash  and  dry  green  stuff,  drain  and  cut  up  cooked  vegetables  or  meats  in  attrac- 
tive diced  pieces  put  away  to  cool.  Either  make  the  dressing  and  put  on  ice,  or 
mix  it  at  table,  or  use  one  of  the  excellent  bottled  dressings  now  sold  at  all  good 
food  shops.  But  remember  never  toss  up  the  salad  with  the  dressing  until  just  be- 
fore serving. 

Salads  made  of  minced  meat,  vegetables  and  dressing  are  not  dinner  salads 
when  meat  is  the  main  dish,  but  should  be  used  rather  for  supper  or  light  luncheon. 

Fruit  combines  with  nuts  and  lettuce  and  dressing  hold  all  the  food  value 
of  a  meat  salad  and  are  a  refreshing  substitute  for  meat  at  a  mid  luncheon. 

When  fresh  green  vegetables  are  not  obtainable  there  are  always  the  care- 
fully canned  asparagus,  peas,  etc.,  and  when  fresh  fruit  is  rare  the  delicious  canned 
pineapple,  pears,  grapes,  etc.,  are  on  the  market. 

Canned  meats  and  even  raisins  and  nuts  offer  endless  opportunities  for  a 
good  salad.  •* 

All  salads  depend  largely  on  the  dressing.  Fruit  salads  are  better  with  a  rich 
mayonnaise  or  a  butter  and  cream  dressing  with  a  dash  of  sugar.  The  vegetable 
salads  need  a  more  highly  seasoned  French  dressing  and  no  sugar. 

Meat  salads  may  take  either  a  French  dressing  or  mayonnaise  without  su- 
gar and  seasoned  with  the  meat's  appropriate  sauce.  For  beef  use  a  bit  of  grated 
horseradish;  pork  or  ham,  Chili  sauce;  lamb,  chopped  capers;  veal  or  fish,  tomato 
mayonnaise  or  a  few  drops  of  catsup;  fowl,  plain  mayonnaise. 

Pure  salad  oil  has  a  faint  nutty  odor  when  it  has  any  at  all,  is  pale  green  in 
color  and  tastes  somewhat  like  the  ripe  olives  from  which  it  is  made.  It  should 
blend  easily  with  condiments. 

RECIPES 


Mayonnaise  Dressing  —  The  secret  of  success 
with  mayonnaise  is  to  have  the  dish,  beater  and 
materials  ice  cold,  to  work  quickly,  and  place  at 
once  on  ice. 

Stir  into  yolk  of  I  egg,  a  mixture  of  >/2  teasp. 
mustard,  J/Jj  teasp.  salt,  1  teasp.  sugar,  dash  of 
paprika  and  cayenne.  Beat  thoroughly  and  stead- 
ily, adding  drop  by  drop  1  cupful  olive  oil.  When 
dressing  is  stiff,  thin  slowly  with  1  tbsp.  lemon 
juice,  then  1  tbsp.  vinegar.  Should  oil  not  thicken 
egg  at  once,  add  14  teasp.  unbeaten  white  of  egg 
or    a    few    drops    of    vinegar    will    make    it    smooth 


again.  It  should  be  thick  enough  to  cut  with  a 
spoon  before  adding  rest  of  vinegar.  Put  on  ice. 
When  salad  is  ready  to  serve,  mix  in  lightly  only 
small  portion  of  mayonnaise;  drop  the  remainder 
on   top. 

Colored  Mayonnaise Green  mayonnaise  is  made 

by  adding  the  juice  from  a  small  quantity  of 
mashed  spinach  or  parsley.  Strain  through  cheese- 
cloth before  putting  it  in  the  mayonnaise  dressing. 

To  color  it  red,  add  beet  juice  or  juice  of  lobster 
coral. 


CLASS  15 — SALADS,  SALAD  DRESSINGS— RECIPES 


187 


Tomato  Mayonnaise — Stew  gently  3  cups  canned 
strained  tomato;  mash,  strain,  add  Yl  teasp.  butter, 
Yl  teasp.  flour,  blended.  Simmer  until  very  thick, 
add  1  tbsp.  powdered  sugar.  This  is  tomato  puree 
and  can  be  bought  canned.  Fold  this  puree  into 
J/2  cup  stiff  mayonnaise.  This  is  delicious  with 
meat    or    fish    salads. 

Marinade  is  used  to  express  the  seasoning  of 
salad   to  taste  with  salt,   pepper,   oil  or  vinegar. 

French  Dressing — Mix  4  tbsp.  oil  slowly  into 
the  dry  seasonings  of  J/2  teasp.  salt,  J4  teasp.  pep- 
per,   J4    teasp.   onion  juice;   add    1    tbsp.   vinegar. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing — Into  2  beaten  eggs  stir 
1/3  cupful  vinegar  with  water  added  to  make  J/2 
cupful;  add  1  teasp.  sugar,  I  teasp.  salt,  J/2  teasp. 
mustard,  dash  of  paprika.  Beat  thoroughly,  put 
in  double  boiler,  add  I  tbsp.  melted  butter,  cook, 
stirring  until  smooth  and  creamy.  This  will  keep 
on  ice  a  week. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing — Mix  Yl  teasp.  salt,  J4 
teasp.  mustard,  Y%  teasp.  pepper,  1  teasp.  sugar. 
Stir  into  1  beaten  egg.  Put  on  in  double  boiler. 
Add  at  once  slowly  1  tbsp.  vinegar  thinned  with 
1  tbsp.  warm  water.  As  it  heats  add  1  teasp. 
butter  rubbed  in  1  tbsp.  flour;  stir  carefully  until 
smooth  and  thick.  Remove  and  chill.  When  ready 
to   serve,    thin   with  sour   cream. 

Condensed  Milk  Dressing — Beat  slowly  into  Yl 
cup  olive  oil  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Add  1  cup  vinegar 
into  which  I  teasp.  mustard,  Yl  teasp.  salt  have 
been  mixed;  carefully  stir  in  Yl  can  condensed 
milk  and  the  stiff  whites  of  the  eggs;  put  on  ice 
until    used. 

Cheese  Salad  Dressing  —  Into  J4  lb.  grated 
American  or  Roquefort  cheese  mix  the  following: 
1  tbsp.  olive  oil,  Yl  teasp.  cayenne  pepper,  1 
teasp.  salt,  1  teasp.  powdered  sugar,  J4  teasp. 
mustard.  When  well  blended,  thin  with  4  tbsp. 
vinegar  or  2  tbsp.  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil  to  suit. 

This  is  a  nice  dressing  for  fish,  potato,  or  green 
vegetable  salads. 

Horseradish  Cream  Dressing  —  Mix  J4  teasp. 
mustard  and  cayenne,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  Yl  teasp. 
sugar,  I  teasp.  grated  horseradish,  1  tbsp.  lemon 
juice.  Chill.  Just  before  serving,  fold  this  into 
J/2    cup  whipped   cream. 

Salmon  Salad  (Canned)— Chop  the  salmon  well 
with  a  fork,  add  a  little  chopped  onion  if  desired 
and  mix  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
serve   on  lettuce  leaves. 

Canned  tuna  fish,  or  any  boiled  or  baked  fish 
when  cold,  can  be  treated  this  way. 

.Macaroni  and  Fish  Salad  —  Either  macaroni, 
spaghetti  or  rice  may  be  used  with  cold  canned 
or  fresh  cooked  fish. 


Boil  broken  macaroni  or  rice  in  salted  water  un- 
til tender;  rinse,  drain,  chill.  Into  a  bowl  lined 
with  lettuce  leaves  or  chickory,  place  in  layers 
the  macaroni  and  1  cup  flaked  fish,  sprinkling  in 
between  Yl  tbsp.  chopped  parsley.  When  ready 
to  serve,  pour  over  all  tomato  mayonnaise  or  a 
plain  French  dressing.  Garnish  with  sliced  tomato 
or   cucumber. 

Shell  Fish  Salad — Lobster,  crab,  shrimp,  or 
oyster  may  be  used.  Boil,  shell  and  pick  out  meat 
and  chop  into  dice;  if  oysters  are  used,  cut  in  two. 
Use  1  /3  as  much  celery  as  meat,  cut  in  small  bits, 
chill.  Mix  in  a  bowl,  sprinkle  with  salt,  stir  in 
mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  plain  or 
tomato   mayonnaise. 

If  omitting  the  celery,  mix  with  pulp  of  scooped 
out  fresh  tomato  and  return  to  tomato.  Serve  with 
dressing. 

With  vegetable  salads  it  is  sometimes  well  to  use 
as  a  body  for  the  salad  either  potatoes  sliced  thin, 
cooked  rice,  each  grain  separated,  or  well  dried 
macaroni  cut  in  inch  pieces. 

Some  kinds  of  vegetables  combine  better  than 
others,  as  beans,  peas,  cauliflower,  tender  carrots, 
asparagus,  and  again  turnips  with  beets,  carrots, 
cabbage   and   tomatoes. 

Mixed  Vegetable  Salad — Use  firm  boiled  potatoes 
sliced  thin;  slice  cucumbers  and  fresh  tomatoes. 
Mince  and  marinate  separately  1  Spanish  onion, 
1  green  pepper,  2  tbsp.  crisp  cabbage.  Arrange 
sliced  vegetables  on  lettuce  leaves,  sprinkle  over 
them  the  minced  marinated  ones.  Dress  with  an 
oil  salad  dressing  to  which  a  drop  or  two  of  tobasco 
is  added. 

Mashed  Potato  Salad To  4  mealy  boiled  pota- 
toes, mashed,  mix  the  mashed  yolks  of  4  hard 
boiled  eggs  seasoned  with  Yl  teasp.  salt,  Ya  teasp. 
paprika;  add  a  few  chopped  gherkins,  1  small 
minced  onion  and  lightly  fold  in  a  cooked  salad 
dressing.  Serve  in  a  bed  of  lettuce.  Garnish  with 
chopped    parsley    and   sliced    hard    whites. 

Potato    Salad    with    Eggs Put    a    layer    of    sliced 

cold  boiled  potatoes  on  lettuce  leaves  in  a  bowi 
rubbed  with  onion  juice.  Arrange  in  layers  above 
them  either  sliced  cucumbers  or  hard  boiled  eggs. 
Sprinkle  each  layer  with  seasonings  of  Yl  teasp. 
salt,  Ya  teasp.  pepper,  Yl  CUP  diced  celery  mixed 
with  1  cup  boiled  dressing.  When  serving  do  not 
mash;  lift   salad   out  lightly  with  fork. 

Potato  Salad Pare  and  boil  potatoes;  chop   fine 

when  cold,  season  with  raw  onion  sliced  thin. 
Make  a  dressing  of  yolks  of  3  hard  boiled  eggs, 
mashed  fine,  salt  and  mustard  to  taste;  then  add 
enough  olive  oil  or  melted  butter  to  make  a  paste. 


1 88        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


mixing  thoroughly;  to  this  add  I  cup  vinegar 
gradually,  beat  well  with  the  paste  and  mix  with 
potatoes. 

Plain  Egg  Salad — Press  hard  boiled  egg  yolks 
through  a  ricer.  Place  sliced  whites  on  lettuce  and 
chickory,  sprinkle  the  riced  yolks  over,  then  salt 
and  pepper,  and,  last,  drop  on  some  creamy  salad 
dressing. 

Egg  and  Cream  Cheese  Salad — Mix  yolks  of  hard 
boiled  eggs  with  equal  amount  cream  cheese,  few 
grains  cayenne,  salt,  chopped  nuts.  Mold  flat  with 
hand.  Cut  with  silver  knife  into  strips  3  inches 
long,  Yl  inch  wide.  Lay  two  strips  on  a  lettuce 
leaf  for  each  place;  drop  mayonnaise  in  space 
between  strips,  or  if  too  rich  pour  over  a  French 
dressing.      Garnish  with  hard  whites,   sliced. 

Lettuce  Salad — Have  ready  a  salad  spoon  and 
fork,  a  small  bowl,  vinegar,  oil,  salt  and  pepper, 
and  a  large  bowl  of  crisp  cold  lettuce.  Into  the 
chilled  bowl,  rubbed  inside  with  garlic,  mix  I  teasp. 
salt,  J4  teasp.  pepper,  with  I  tbsp.  vinegar,  3  tbsp. 
oil;  stir  until  thoroughly  blended.  Pour  over  the 
lettuce,  tossing  lightly  and  quickly  with  salad  fork 
and   spoon.      Serve  at  once  with  cheese  wafers. 

Many  prefer  to  mix  their  own  salad  dressing  at 
the  table,   especially  for  simple  lettuce  salad. 

Tomato  and  Lettuce  Salad — Drop  whole  toma- 
toes an  instant  into  boiling  water,  peel,  cool  on 
ice,  slice.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  or  without  sliced 
cucumbers.  Drop  on  top  spoonfuls  of  stiff  mayon- 
naise. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad — Remove  inside  of  as 
many  fresh  tomatoes  as  required.  To  half  the 
pulp  add  the  same  quantity  of  this  mixture: 
minced  ham  or  roast  pork,  a  few  chopped  olives, 
and  a  dash  of  Chili  sauce;  stir  in  French  dressing, 
fill  tomatoes,  put  on  ice.  Serve  the  stuffed  toma- 
toes in  a  cup-shaped  leaf  of  watercress  on  indi- 
vidual plates,  with  a  spoonful  of  seasoned  whipped 
cream   over  each. 

Stuffed  Cucumber  Salad — Select  small  cucum- 
bers, peel,  cut  in  lengthwise  halves,  put  in  cold 
salted  water  1  hour.  Remove  pulp,  mix  with 
chopped  celery  or  cabbage,  olives,  anchovies  and 
either  chopped  blanched  nut  meats  or  cooked 
minced  white  chicken,  veal  or  fish.  Mix  thor- 
oughly with  French  dressing  and  fill  up  cucumber 
shells   just   before    serving. 

Quick  Cucumber  Salad — Stuff  cucumbers  with 
minced  cabbage  and  nuts  served  with  dressing  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

Cabbage  Salad — Shred  1  small  crisp  white  cab- 
bage very  fine.  Put  on  ice  in  salad  bowl.  Before 
serving  mix  in  salad  dressing;  or,  at  table,  prepare 
dressing  as  follows:  Sprinkle  cabbage  with  Yl 
teasp.    salt,     <4     teasp.    pepper,    4    tbsp."  olive    oil. 


With  a  silver  fork  and  spoon  toss  cabbage,  adding 
2  tbsp.  vinegar  until  all  is  covered  with  seasoning. 
Serve  on  chickory. 

Chestnut  and  Tomato  Salad  —  Boil  chestnuts 
1 0  minutes,  peel,  slice.  To  Yl  cupful  nuts  pre- 
pare   Yl    cupful    crisp    celery,    Yl    cup    ripe    olives, 

2  pimientoes,  all  diced.  Mix  together  with  mayon- 
naise. Pour  the  mixture  over  yellow  sliced  toma- 
toes and  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs  on  beds  of  water- 
cress or  romaine  and  chickory. 

Beet  Salad — Slice  tender  cooked  beets,  cover 
with  vinegar  mixed  with  1  tbsp.  water  beets  boiled 
in,  '-4  teasp.  sugar,  Ya  teasp.  salt,  few  grains  pap- 
rika. Let  stand  several  hours  on  ice,  drain,  lay 
pickled  beets  on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  some 
of  their  dressing  poured  over;  if  preferred,  use 
mayonnaise  when  served. 

Bean  Salad — Boil  I  lb.  French  beans,  strain  and 
allow  them  to  get  cold.  Mix  Yl  teasp.  ground 
ginger,    pepper   and    salt    to    taste,    2    tbsp.    oil    and 

3  tbsp.  vinegar  carefully  together  and  pour  this 
dressing  over   the  beans. 

Cauliflower  and  cabbage  can  also  be  treated  this 
way. 

Canned  Vegetable  Salad — Use  either  asparagus, 
green  beans,  or  fresh  cauliflower.  Heat,  season 
with  salt,  drain,  cool,  and  serve  with  lettuce  leaves 
and  mayonnaise.      Garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Tomato  Aspic  (Jelly  Salad) — Soak  Yl  package 
gelatine  in  Yl  CUP  cold  water.  Strain  1  Yl  cups 
canned  tomato  juice,  season  'with  Yl  teasp.  onion 
juice,  1  teasp.  sugar,  several  mixed  tiny  spices, 
pepper,  Ya  teasp.  salt.  Simmer  for  1 0  minutes. 
Add  gelatine,  stir,  strain.  Pour  some  of  the  tomato 
aspic  into  small  mold,  put  on  ice.  When  'hard, 
add  layer  of  meat  or  vegetable  salad  mixture. 
Cover  with  rest  of  aspic,  chill.  When  ready  to 
serve,  dip  mold  quickly  in  hot  water,  carefully 
turn  out  jelly  salad  on  bed  of  lettuce  leaves.  Gar- 
nish top  with  mayonnaise. 

Spinach  or  Pea  Aspic — Cook,  drain,  chop  fine 
Yl  can  spinach,  or,  if  peas  are  used,  press  through 
a  sieve.  Dissolve  Yl  package  gelatine  according 
to  directions  on  box.  Season  with  Ya  teasp.  salt, 
little  pepper,  add  spinach  or  peas.  Put  on  ice  in 
mold  until  stiff.  Serve  in  slices  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs  and  top  with  a  stiff 
dressing  to  which  add  chopped  olives  and  parsley 
if  desired. 

Fruit  and  Nut  Salads — Several  pleasing  combina- 
tions of  fresh  or  canned  fruits,  nuts,  and  some- 
times celery  may  be  arranged,  as:  (1)  Diced 
pineapple,  celery,  nuts,  on  lettuce  with  mayon- 
naise. (2)  Sliced  apple  on  lettuce  sprinkled  with 
nuts  and  mayonnaise.  (3)  Grapefruit,  French 
dressing,   lettuce  and  nuts.       (4)    Canned  pear  with 


CLASS  15— SALADS,  SALAD  DRESSINGS— RECIPES 


189 


Roquefort  grated  cheese  added  to  mayonnaise. 
(5)  Bananas  and  apples  sliced,  chopped  dates, 
lemon  juice,  sugar,  lettuce,  mayonnaise  or  French 
dressing.  (6)  Soaked  boiled  raisins,  apples,  cel- 
ery,   marinated.      Add   mayonnaise   and   lettuce. 

Combination  Fruit  Salad — In  a  cold  salad  bowl 
arrange  in  sugared  layers  diced  pineapple,  4  sliced 
bananas,  peaches,  pears  or  grapes,  4  sliced  oranges 
or  grapefruit;  top  with  blanched  chopped  almonds. 
Pour  over  this  a  cooked  syrup  of  Yt  CUP  lemon 
juice,  Ya  cuP  pineapple  juice,  I  cup  sugar.  Put 
on  ice  until  served. 

Waldorf  Salad Use  equal  portions  of  apples  and 

celery  cut  in  small  pieces  mixed  with  a  few  finely 
chopped  nut  meats  and  enough  salad  dressing  to 
hold   together.      Serve   in    cups   made   of   bright   red 


apples  hollowed  out,   on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.      Gar- 
nish  with   celery   tips. 

Chicken  Salad — Dice  cold  chicken,  put  2  cup- 
fuls  in  bowl;  marinade  with  I  tbsp.  vinegar,  3  tbsp. 
oil,  I  teasp.  salt,  dash  of  pepper.  Place  on  ice  I 
hour.  Also  chill  2  cups  celery  cut  fine.  At 
serving  time  mix  chicken,  celery  and  I  cupful 
mayonnaise.  Place  on  shredded  lettuce,  garnish 
with  sliced   hard  boiled   eggs,   olives   or  watercress. 

Cold  Beef  Salad — Line  a  bowl  with  crisp  lettuce 
leaves.  Slice  cold  roast  beef  very  thin,  then  mince 
evenly.  Mix  with  equal  quantity  chopped  ham. 
Fold  into  this  carefully  a  part  of  the  horseradish 
whipped  cream  dressing;  drop  the  rest  on  top  of 
the  salad.  Slice  hard  boiled  eggs  over  all.  Serve 
at  once. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


1 90        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


£i|iilllllllllllllil!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIil)ll!llllllllllilltlllIIi:iIiEillllI!IIIIII!ilE!IIIEIIEE!i:ilIgilEEIEIIIIi|[||illlEl(IEIIIEIIIIIII!= 


|  |         CLASS  16 


I  Vegetables 


^lllllllllllllllliillllSEIIIHHimiEIEIIilEIIIIIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimillk: 

STRUCTURE   AND   COMPOSITION   OF   VEGETABLES 

By  Maria  Parloa. 

(U.  S.  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  256) 

Plants  are  made  up  of  innumerable  cells,  each  consisting  of  a  thin  mem- 
branous wall  inclosing  a  semifluid  mass,  in  which  lie  the  nucleus  or  center  of  cell 
activity  and  minute  grains  of  starch  or  other  material  which  the  plant  has  elaborated. 

The  whole  framework  of  the  very  young  plants  is  made  up  of  these  cell 
walls,  commonly  called  cellular  tissue  or  cellulose.  However,  early  in  the  growth 
of  the  plant  wood  cells  begin  to  develop.  The  wood  cells  grow  into  a  fibrous  sub- 
stance that  may  be  torn  apart  like  threads,  which  is  called  woody  fiber.  It  is  this 
woody  fiber  and  the  thickening  and  hardening  of  the  cellular  tissue  that  make  poor- 
ly grown  or  stale  vegetables  hard  and  indigestible. 

Practically  all  green  plants  contain  a  large  percentage  of  water  with  a  larger 
or  smaller  percentage  of  starch  and  some  nitrogenous  material  (protein),  sugar, 
gum,  crude  fiber,  and  other  carbohydrate  and  mineral  matter.  The  fruits  and  seeds 
of  some  plants  are  rich  in  fat,  but  the  plant  itself  rarely  contains  any  appreciable 
amount  of  this  constituent. 

Most  vegetables  contain  small  amounts  of  volatile  essential  oils  or  other 
bodies  of  pronounced  flavor  and  owe  their  characteristic  taste  to  such  constitu- 
ents; sugars  and  acids  when  present,  as  they  often  are,  and  mineral  salts,  found  in 
all  vegetable  foods,  also  contribute  their  share  toward  the  flavor. 

CLASSIFICATION  OF  VEGETABLES. 

Vegetable  foods  may  be  divided  into  a  few  general  classes.  These  are  cereals,  leg- 
umes, tubers,  roots  and  bulbs,  herbaceous  or  green  vegetables,  and  vegetable  fruits  and 
flowers.  The  cereals  are  the  most  valuable  of  the  vegetable  foods,  including  as  they  do 
the  grains  from  which  is  made  nearly  all  the  bread  of  the  world.  The  use  of  cereals  for 
bread  making,  for  breakfast  foods,  and  in  similar  ways  is  taken  up  elsewhere.  In  this  bulle- 
tin rice  and  corn  are  the  only  cereals  considered,  as  they  are  the  only  grains  commonly  em- 
ployed  as   table  vegetables. 

Rice  is  largely  composed  of  starch  and  has  very  small  proportions  of  nitrogenous, 
fatty,  and  mineral  matter.  Therefore,  when  used  as  a  vegetable,  it  is  naturally  and  very 
properly  served  with  foods  rich  in  the  constituents  which  it  lacks. 

Legumes  belong  to  the  pulse  family.  The  fruit  is  usually  in  the  shape  of  a  pod.  Al- 
though there  are  several  thousand  species  of  the  Leguminosae  or  pulse,  only  a  few  kinds 
are  used  as  table  vegetables,  beans,  peas,  cowpeas,  and  lentils  being  the  legumes  princi- 
pally employed  as  human  food.  The  dried  seeds  of  beans,  peas,  and  lentils  constitute  a 
most  valuable  all-the-year-round  food  supply.  The  seeds  occupy  small  space,  keep  well,  and 
may  be  prepared  in  a  great  many  appetizing  and  nutritious  forms. 

191 


1 92       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES     . 

The  ripe  leguminous  seeds  are  very  rich  in  nitrogenous  matter.  Peas,  beans,  cow- 
peas,  and  lentils  contain  on  an  average  25  per  cent  nitrogenous  matter  and  over  50  per  cent 
starch,  and  about  1 0  per  cent  cellulose,  fatty  matter,  and  mineral  matter.  When  properly 
cooked  and  consumed  in  reasonable  quantities  peas,  beans,  and  lentils  may  replace  a  portion 
of  the  meat  in  the  daily  dietary.  The  unripe  legumes  and  their  edible  pods,  like  all  green 
vegetables,  are  quite  succulent  foods,  the  proportion  of  nutritive  material  being  small  as 
compared  with  the  water  present. 

Since  the  fatty  matter  in  the  legumes  enumerated  does  not  average  3  per  cent  they 
are  commonly  and  wisely  cooked  with  some  added  fat.  The  green  seeds  and  the  green 
pods  of  peas  and  beans  are  not  so  highly  nutritious  as  the  dried  seed,  but  they  are  more 
delicate  and  apparently  more  easily  digested.;-/; 

Among  the  foods  served  as  table  vegetables,  tubers  and  roots  have  an  important 
place.  The  potato  comes  next  to  the  cereals  in  its  almost  universal  employment  and  the 
material  consumed.  We  have  no  other  vegetable  that  lends  itself  to  such  a  variety  of  pre- 
parations. The  potato  contains  a  large  percentage  of  water,  a  fair  percentage  of  starch,  a 
very  small  percentage  of  sugar,  and  nitrogenous,  fatty,  and  gummy  matter,  and  about  1  per 
cent  of  mineral  matter.  The  mineral  matter  consists  of  potash  and  soda  salts,  citrates, 
phosphates,  magnesia,  and  silicate  of  lime.  It  is  to  this  mineral  matter  that  the  potato  owes 
its  antiscorbutic  properties. 

The  sweet  potato  is  rich  in  starch  and  sugar.  The  percentage  of  nitrogenous  and 
fatty  matter  is  very  small.  This  vegetable  makes  a  pleasant  and  healthful  addition  to  the 
table.      It  is  somewhat  laxative. 

The  true  roots  most  used  as  table  vegetables  are  beets,  radish,  turnips,  parsnips, 
carrots,  salsify,  and  celeriac.  Both  the  parsnip  and  salsify  withstand  frost  and  may  be  left 
in  the  ground  all  winter,  thus  making  it  possible  to  have  these  vegetables  in  the  early  spring 
as  well  as  in  the  fall.  However,  they  must  not  be  left  in  the  ground  too  late  in  the  season 
the  following  spring,  as  they  soon  grow  hard  and  fibrous.  Turnips,  beets,  and  carrots,  for 
summer  and  fall  use,  should  be  of  the  quick-growing  kind,  and  should  not  be  allowed  to 
grow  to  great  size.  To  have  these  vegetables  in  perfection  it  is  necessary  to  sow  them  fre- 
quently during  the  season.  When  grown  for  winter  use,  these  roots,  like  all  vegetables  that 
are  to  be  stored,  must,  of  course,  develop  until  mature,   else  they  will  not  keep  well. 

The  bulb-bearing  plants  belong  to  the  lily  family,  the  onion  being  the  bulb  most 
generally  used  as  a  vegetable  and  flavorer.  On  the  Continent  of  Europe  very  many  other 
members  of  the  onion  family  are  also  freely  used  as  flavorers,  and  no  continental  kitchen 
garden  would  be  considered  complete  without  several  varieties,  such  as  the  common  onion, 
leek,  shallot,  garlic,  chives,  and  cibol.  Much  of  the  delicious  flavor  of  the  French  and 
Italian    cookery    is    due    to    the    skillful    combination  of  several  of  the  onion  flavors. 

The  herbaceous  vegetables,  cabbage,  lettuce,  celery,  spinach,  etc.,  are  valuable  for 
their  refreshing  qualities,  the  salts  they  yield,  and  the  variety  they  give  to  our  diet,  but  owing 
to  the  amount  of  water  they  contain  (90  per  cent  or  more  on  an  average)  their  food  value 
is  low.  The  leaves,  stems,  and  shoots  are  the  parts  used  as  food.  These  vegetables  should 
be  employed  while  young  and  tender;  the  more  rapidly  the  vegetables  grow  the  more  ten- 
der they  will  be. 

Fruits  used  as  vegetables  include  tomatoes,  okra,  squash,  pumpkin,  cucumber,  egg- 
plant, and  peppers,  among  others.  Such  fruits  as  muskmelon  and  watermelon  are  used  as 
fruits  rather  than  as  vegetables,  and  are  not  taken  up  here.  In  the  case  of  globe  or  French 
artichoke,   cauliflower,   and  broccoli  the  flower  buds  or  inflorescence  are  the  parts  eaten. 


CLASS  1 6— VEGETABLES— PREPARATION  193 

GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  UNDERLYING  VEGETABLE  COOKING. 

Vegetables  are  baked,  roasted,  fried,  or  boiled,  are  used  for  making  a  great  variety 
of  dishes,  and  are  prepared  for  the  table  in  other  ways;  but  the  most  common  method  of 
cooking  them  is  in  boiling  water.  Steaming  is  not  infrequently  resorted  to  as  a  method  of 
cooking  vegetables  and   is,    of  course,   similar  in  principle  to  boiling  in  water. 

The  simpler  the  methods  of  cooking  and  serving  vegetables  the  better.  A  properly 
grown  and  well-cooked  vegetable  will  be  palatable  and  readily  digestible.  Badly  cooked, 
water-soaked  vegetables  very  generally  cause  digestive  disturbances,  which  are  often  seri- 
ous. Nearly  every  vegetable  may  be  cooked  so  that  with  plain  bread  it  may  form  a  pala- 
table course  by  itself,  if  it  is  desired  to  serve  it  in  this  manner. 

All  green  vegetables,  roots,  and  tubers  should  be  crisp  and  firm  when  put  on  to  cook. 
If  for  any  reason  a  vegetable  has  lost  its  firmness  and  crispiness,  it  should  be  soaked  in  very 
cold  water  until  it  becomes  plump  and  crisp.  With  new  vegetables  this  will  be  only  a  mat- 
ter of  minutes,  while  old  roots  and  tubers  often  require  many  hours.  All  vegetables  should 
be  thoroughly  cleaned  just  before  being  put  on  to  cook.  Vegetables  that  form  in  heads, 
such  as  cabbage,  cauliflower,  and  Brussels  sprouts,  should  be  soaked,  heads  turned  down, 
in  salted  cold  water,  to  which  a  few  spoonfuls  of  vinegar  may  be  added.  If  there  are  any 
worms  or  other  forms  of  animal  life  in  these  vegetables,  they  will  crawl  out.  To  secure 
the  best  results  all  vegetables  except  the  dried  legumes  must  be  put  in  boiling  water,  and 
the  water  must  be  made  to  boil  again  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  vegetables  have  been 
added,  and  must  be  kept  boiling  until  the  cooking  is  finished.  Herbaceous  vegetables 
should  boil  rapidly  all  the  time.  With  tubers,  roots,  cauliflower,  etc.,  the  ebullition  should 
not  be  so  violent  as  to  break  the  vegetables.  Green  beans  and  peas  when  removed  from 
the  pod  must  also  be  cooked  gently,  i.  e.,  just  simmer.  When  the  pods  and  all  are  used 
they  are  to  be  cooked  rapidly,  like  the  herbaceous  vegetables. 

To  secure  the  most  appetizing  and  palatable  dishes,  only  fresh,  tender  vegetables 
should  be  cooked.  If,  however,  green  beans,  peas,  etc.,  have  grown  until  a  little  too  old 
and  it  still  seems  best  to  gather  them,  a  very  small  piece  of  baking  soda  added  to  the 
water  in  which  they  are  boiled  makes  them  more  tender,  it  is  commonly  believed,  and  helps 
to  retain  the  color.  Too  much  soda  injures  the  flavor,  and  an  excess  must  be  carefully 
avoided.  A  little  soda  may  also  be  used  to  advantage  if  the  water  is  quite  hard.  Peas 
may  be  boiled  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  the  water  to  which  the  soda  has  been  added, 
then  to  be  cooked  the  same  as  peas  with  pork. 

During  the  cooking  of  all  vegetables  the  cover  must  be  drawn  to  one  side  of  the 
stewpan  to  allow  the  volatile  bodies  liberated  by  the  heat  to  pass  off  in  the  steam.  All  vege- 
tables should  be  thoroughly  cooked,  but  the  cooking  should  stop  while  the  vegetable  is  still 
firm.  This,  of  course,  does  not  apply  to  vegetables  that  are  cooked  in  soups,  purees  (thick 
strained  soups),  etc.  The  best  seasoning  for  most  vegetables  is  salt  and  good  butter. 
Vegetables  that  are  blanched  and  then  cooked  with  butter  and  other  seasonings  and  very 
little  moisture  are  more  savory  and  nutritious  than  when  all  the  cooking  is  done  in  a  good 
deal  of  clear  water. 

BLANCHING  VEGETABLES  AS  A  COOKING  PROCESS. 

Blanching,  which  in  cookery  in  entirely  different  from  the  bleaching  or  blanching 
of  green  vegetables  in  the  garden,  is  a  cooking  process  often  used  with  vegetables,  since 
it  removes  the  strong  or  acrid  taste  and  improves  the  quality.  It  is  also  convenient,  since 
blanching  may  be  done  at  any  time,  and  the  cooking  completed  in  a  very  short  time  when 
the  dish  is  to  be  served. 

Have  a  large  stewpan  half  full  of  rapidly  boiling  water.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of 
salt  for  every  2   quarts  of  water.      Have  the  vegetables  cleaned   and   well   drained.      Drop 


194       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

them  into  the  boiling  water,  and  bring  the  water  back  to  the  boiling  point  as  quickly  as 
possible.  Boil  rapidly,  with  the  cover  partially  or  wholly  off  the  stewpan,  five  to  twenty 
minutes,  depending  upon  the  vegetable,  then  drain  off  the  water.  If  the  cooking  of  the 
vegetable  is  not  to  be  finished  at  once,,  pour  cold  water  over  the  vegetable  to  cool 
it  quickly,  then  drain  and  set  aside  until  needed.  If  the  cooking  is  to  be  continued 
at  once,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  rinse  the  vegetable  with  cold  water.  To  com- 
plete the  cooking  the  vegetable  should  be  put  in  a  small  stewpan  with  butter  or  drip- 
pings and  the  other  seasonings  and  cooked  gently  until  done.  A  few  spoonfuls  of 
liquid  will  be  required  for  every  quart  of  very  juicy  vegetables,  and  half  a  pint  of  liquid  for 
drier  vegetables.  The  stewpan  is  to  be  covered,  only  a  slight  opening  being  left  for  ven- 
tilation. All  vegetables  cooked  in  this  manner  should  be  cut  up  rather  small  either  before 
or  after  the  blanching. 

LOSSES  IN  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 

In  baking  vegetables  there  is  little  loss  of  material  except  the  water  which  is  driven 
off  by  the  heat.  When  vegetables  are  immersed  in  water,  as  in  boiling,  a  greater  or  less 
loss  of  material  is  almost  inevitable,  the  kind  and  amount  of  material  extracted  by  the 
water  depending  upon  such  factors  as  the  sort  of  water  used,  its  temperature  at  the  begin- 
ning and  during  the  cooking  period,  the  length  of  time  the  cooking  is  continued,  and  the 
condition  of  the  vegetable,   that  is,  whether  pared,  whole,  or  cut  into  small  pieces. 

INDIAN  CORN. 

(U.   S.   Farmers'   Bulletin   559) 

Indian  corn  is  peculiarly  an  American  product,  being  native  to  American  soil. 
The  ways  of  preparing  it  for  human  food  are  very  numerous,  and  many  of  them, 
like  the  cereal  itself,  are  of  Indian  origin. 

COMPOSITION    OF    INDIAN    CORN 

The  varieties  of  Indian  corn  are  many,  white  and  yellow  types  being  very 
common,  red  not  uncommon,'  and  even  blue  and  black  corn  being  found  in  the 
southwestern  United  States.  There  is  a  widespread  popular  belief  that  the  food 
value  of  these  different  sorts  varies  as  greatly  as  their  color,  but  this  is  not  the 
case.  White,  yellow,  red,  blue,  and  black  corn  are  very  much  alike  in  composition, 
and  are  therefore  equally  valuable  as  sources  of  nourishment.  They  vary  some- 
what, however,  in  flavor.    The  liking  for  one  or  another  is  a  personal  or  local  matter. 

COMPARISON  OF  DIFFERENT  PARTS  OF  THE  KERNEL. 

The  percentage  composition  of  Indian  corn  as  given  above  is  that  of  the  whole  kernel 
as  distinguished  from  any  of  its  parts.  A  grain  of  corn  is  complex  in  structure,  and  its 
different  parts  vary  greatly  in  nutritive  value.  For  our  purpose  here  it  may  be  considered 
to  consist  of  skin,  germ,  and  endosperm.  The  skin  constitutes  about  6  per  cent  of  the 
whole  weight  of  the  kernel;  the  germ,  which  contains  the  embryo,  from  which  under  fav- 
orable conditions  new  life  will  spring,  constitutes  about  10  per  cent;  and  the  endosperm, 
which  is  the  storehouse  of  food  for  the  new  life,  constitutes  about  84  per  cent.  Of  the 
total  amount  of  crude  fiber  in  a  kernel  of  corn,  51  per  cent  is  in  the  skin;  of  the  starch, 
90  per  cent  is  in  the  endosperm;  and  of  the  protein,  80  per  cent  is  in  the  endosperm  and 
16  per  cent  in  the  germ;  while  of  the  fat,   65  per  cent  is  in  the  germ. 

A  SPECIAL  USE  FOR  CORN  MEAL. 

Corn  meal,  because  of  its  lack  of  gluten,  cannot  be  made  into  light  and  porous  breads 
except  by  the  addition  of  eggs  or  of  wheat,   rye,  Graham,  or  gluten  flour,  or  in  some  similar 


CLASS   1  6— VEGETABLES— POTATOES  195 

way.  The  absence  of  gluten,  which  with  water  forms  a  sticky,  tenacious  mass,  is  responsi- 
ble, however,  for  the  fact  that  the  meal  retains  much  of  its  granular  quality  even  after  it  ha3 
been  mixed  and  heated  with  water.  Dishes  made  with  corn  meal  are  likely  to  be  more 
tender  than  those  made  with  wheat,  and  the  use  of  small  amounts  of  corn  meal  in  the  mak- 
ing of  such  foods  as  waffles  and  doughnuts  is  to  be  recommended. 

COOKING  CORN  MEAL. 

A  study  of  the  modifications  in  methods  of  cooking  which  have  been  rendered 
necessary  by  changes  in  the  composition  of  the  meal  was  made  at  Teachers  College,  Co- 
lumbia University,  New  York  City,  for  the  Office  of  Experiment  Stations.  The  results  of 
these  investigations,  which  are  still  unpublished,  may  be  summarized  as  follows:  In  gen- 
eral, 1  0  per  cent  more  water  is  needed  for  the  new-process  meal  than  for  the  old-process, 
and  where  the  large  amount  of  water  used  renders  the  meal  liable  to  sink  (in  breads,  for 
example),   the  mixture  of  meal  and  water  should  be  thoroughly  heated  before  being  used. 

In  experiments  made  in  this  office  it  was  found  that,  when  convenience  as  well  as 
the  final  result  is  taken  into  consideration,  it  is  best  for  almost  every  purpose  to  put  the 
meal  and  cold  water  together  and  then  heat  them  over  boiling  water  in  a  double  boiler. 
Except  when  very  finely  ground  meals  are  used  it  is  unnecessary  to  stir  the  mixture  at  any 
time,  not  even  when  the  meal  and  water  are  put  together.  The  conclusion  has  been 
reached,  in  fact,  that  in  all  cases — even  those  in  which  the  liquid  used  is  not  water  but 
either  sweet  or  sour  milk — the  best  results  are  obtained  by  heating  the  meal  and  liquid 
together  without  stirring.  This  applies  to  the  making  of  cornmeal  mush  and  also  to  more 
complicated  dishes,   such  as  breads. 


PLENTY  OF  POTATOES 

(U.  S.  Food  Adminstration  Food  Leaflet  No.      10) 

They  Are  a  Splendid  Food.     Excellent  For   Your   Body. 
Delicious  When  Well  Cooked. 

WHAT  THEY  DO  FOR  YOUR  BODY. 

They  are  good  fuel.  They  furnish  starch  which  burns  in  your  muscles  to 
let  you  work,  much  as  the  gasoline  burns  in  an  automobile  engine  to  make  the 
car  go. 

One  medium-sized  potato  gives  you  as  much  starch  as  two  slices  of  bread. 
When  you  have  potatoes  for  a  meal  you  need  less  bread.     Potatoes  can  save  wheat. 

They  give  you  salts  like  other  vegetables.  You  need  the  salts  to  build  and 
renew  all  the  parts  of  your  body  and  to  keep  it  in  order. 

POTATOES  AT  THEIR  BEST. 
One  old  king  is  said  to  have  tested  each  cook  before  hiring  him  by  asking 
him  to  boil  a  potato.     Even  the  best  potato  can  be  spoiled  by  a  poor  cook. 

TO  BOIL  THEM  so  that  they  will  be  "fit  for  a  king,"  drop  the  unpeeled 
potatoes  into  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  20  to  30  minutes.  Drain  the  water  off 
at  once.  If  they  are  cooked  too  long  or  allowed  to  stand  in  the  water  they  get 
soggy. 

If  you  peel  the  potatoes  before  cooking  them  you  will  waste  time  and  pota- 
toes both.  You  may  throw  away  a  sixth  or  even  a  quarter  of  the  good  part  of  the 
potato  with  the  skins.  Also,  if  the  potatoes  aren't  covered  up  by  the  skins  while 
cooking,  some  of  the  valuable  material  will  soak  out  into  the  water.  Even  very 
small   potatoes   can  be   economically  used,  if  they  are  boiled  in  their  skins. 


1 96        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

FOR  BEST  MASHED  POTATOES.  Peel  the  boiled  potatoes,  mash  and 
beat  until  very  light,  adding  salt,  butter  or  oleomargarine  and  hot  milk,  a  half  cup 
of  milk  to  six  potatoes.  If  dinner  is  not  ready  to  serve,  pile  lightly  in  a  pan  and  set 
in  the  oven  to  brown. 

POTATOES  ARE  GOOD  IN  BREADS.  Get  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  807, 
"Bread  and  Bread  Making  in  the  Home,"  from  the  Department  of  Agriculture, 
Washington,  D.  C,  to  learn  how  to  make  potato  yeast  bread. 

POTATOES  ARE  GOOD  IN  CAKE.  They  are  often  used  in  this  way  to 
keep  the  cake  from  drying  out  quickly.  Mash  the  potatoes  and  beat  up  with  milk 
until  very  light.  You  can  use  your  usual  cake  recipe,  substituting  one  cup  of 
mashed  potatoes  for  one-half  cup  of  milk  and  one-half  cup  of  flour. 

POTATOES  FOR  YOUR  MAIN  DISH.  Potatoes,  left  over  or  fresh,  may 
be  combined  with  cheese  or  nuts  or  meat  or  other  material,  often  to  make  the  main 
dish  of  a  meal. 

VEGETABLES  FOR  WINTER 

(U.  S.  Food  Administration  Food  Leaflet  No.   9) 

Everybody  Needs  Them — Grown  People  and  Children,  Too. 

DON'T  STOP  USING  "THEM  IN  WINTER  even  if  they  are  harder  to  get 
than  in  summer. 

Doctors  say  that  the  tired-out  feeling  at  the  end  of  the  winter — "spring 
fever" — often  comes  from  a  lack  of  fruits  and  vegetables  in  the  winter  diet.  Keep 
the  family  well  and  make  their  meals  pleasanter  by  using  vegetables.  Give  them 
to  children  especially.  Young  children  can  digest  them  better  if  they  are  mashed 
and  put  through  a  sieve. 

The  salts  or  "mineral  matter"  that  vegetables  contain  is  one  of  your  chief 
helps  in  keeping  your  body  strong  and  well. 

In  every  part  of  your  body  there  are  salts  somewhat  like  table  talt,  but  of 
many  kinds — iron,  lime  and  others.  Your  body  won't  work  smoothly  unless  it 
has  plenty  of  these  salts,  and  the  children  can't  build  strong  bodies  without  them. 
You  must  get  them  from  your  food.  Vegetables  and  fruit  are  rich  in  them.  Eat 
a  variety  so  as  to  be  sure  to  get  all  the  kinds  of  salts  you  need. 

The  salts  and  other  substances  in  vegetables  also  help  prevent  constipation. 
Keep  yourself  and  your  children  well. 

FRESH  WINTER  VEGETABLES.  , 
These  include  cabbage,  turnips,  onions,  carrots,  potatoes,  etc.,  which  are 
always  good  simply  cooked,  stewed,  boiled  or  baked,  and  served  with  a  little  butter 
or  oleomargarine  or  a  simple  cream  sauce.  You  waste  valuable  salts  when  you 
throw  away  the  water  in  which  you  cook  vegetables.  Sometimes  the  flavor  is 
not  desirable,  but  if  it  is  good,  save  the  water  for  soup  or  gravy.  Even  better — 
cook  them  in  as  little  water  as  possible  so  there  is  none  left  to  drain  off.  Or  bake 
or  steam  them. 

Cabbage  is  one  of  the  vegetables  that  is  best  simply  cooked.  It  may  be  poor 
or  it  may  be  delicious,  depending  upon  how  you  cook  it.  Don't  boil  it  too  long — 
20  or  30  minutes  in  salted  water  is  long  enough. 

The  winter  vegetables  are  excellent,  too,  combined  with  meats  to  make 
savory  stews. 


CLASS  1  6— VEGETABLES— DIRECTIONS  197 

CANNED  VEGETABLES. 

Often  canned  vegetables  need  only  skillful  seasoning  to  make  them  as  good 
as  fresh.  Chopped  onions  or  green  peppers  may  add  a  good  flavor.  Of  course, 
you  will  not  use  any  canned  vegetables  about  which  there  is  a  suspicion  of  spoilage. 

Canned  corn  is  very  good  when  turned  into  a  baking  dish,  milk  and  season- 
ing added,  and  the  whole  heated  through  in  the  oven  and  allowed  to  brown  on  top. 
Outside  stalks  of  celery  cut  up,  a  green  pepper,  or  both,  added  before  baking,  make 
the  dish  more  appetizing. 

DRIED  VEGETABLES. 

Do  you  use  them?  They  are  as  good  as  canned  or  better.  Dried  beans 
and  peas  are  well  known.  Besides  these,  you  can  dry  all  kinds  yourself,  especially 
if  you  have  a  garden  and  get  them  fresh.  The  only  change  that  takes  place  is  the 
loss  of  water.  The  salts  and  other  valuable  parts  are  the  same  as  in  the  fresh. 
Farmers'  Bulletin  841   tells  how  to  dry  vegetables. 

To  prepare  dried  vegetables  for  cooking  first  soak  them  for  several  hours  or 
overnight  so  that  they  will  take  up  the  water  lost  in  drying.  Then  cook  them  exact- 
ly as  you  would  fresh  ones — as  a  vegetable,  in  soups,  or  with  meat.  They  make 
a  good,  economical  addition  to  your  winter  meals. 

VEGETABLES  SAVE  MEAT  AND  WHEAT. 

Beans  and  peas  have  long  been  used  in  place  of  some  meat.  Like  meat, 
they  furnish  protein  which  the  body  needs. 

Potatoes  and  other  starchy  vegetables  can  save  wheat.  Use  them  in  bread 
making  or  use  less  bread  at  the  meals  where  such  vegetables  are  served.  Bread 
and  starchy  vegetables  are  both  good  sources  of  body  fuel. 

VARIETY  AND  FLAVOR  IN  YOUR  MEALS. 


VEGETABLES— GENERAL   DIRECTIONS 

Select  fresh,  crisp  vegetables  and  prepare  for  cooking  as  soon  as  possible. 
They  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place.  Turnips,  carrots,  parsnips  and  similiar  roots 
may  be  kept  plump  and  fresh  by  being  put  into  boxes  filled  with  earth  or  sand  and 
kept  in  a  cool  place. 

Wash  vegetables  in  cold,  cook  in  boiling  water.  Cook  green  or  top-ground 
vegetables  uncovered.  Put  in  1  teaspoon  salt  to  each  quart  of  water.  White  or 
underground  vegetables  are  better  when  salt  is  added  after  cooking. 

Soak  dried  peas,  beans,  lentils  and  dried  fruits  over  night.  Soak  old  pota- 
toes in  cold  water  1  hour  before  cooking.  Freshen  wilted  vegetables  by  putting  on 
ice  or  in  cold  water  to  which  a  little  borax  is  added. 

Open  canned  goods  1  hour  before  using.  Empty  from  can  at  once,  drain 
in  colander,  pour  cold  water  over  and  put  in  cool  place. 

To  prevent  odors  from  arising  from  cabbage,  cauliflower,  onions,  turnips, 
cook  rapidly  uncovered  or  add  a  piece  of  charcoal. 

The  water  in  which  cabbage  or  turnips  have  been  boiled  will  be  found  ex- 
cellent for  cooking  dried  vegetables  such  as  beans  or  lentils,  macaroni  or  spaghetti. 

Sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  parsley  when  chopping ;  it  will  chop  much  finer  and 
easier. 


1 48        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


VEGETABLES 

ORDER  OF  RECIPES  CONTENTS 


Asparagus 

Artichokes 

Beets 

Brussel    Sprouts 

String  Beans 

Lima    Beans 

Boston    Baked    Beans 

Frijoles  Con  Queso 

Kidney   Bean    Stew 

Bean  Loaf 

Kidney  Beans  and   Rice 

Soy  Bean 

Soy  Bean  Loaf 

Lentil  Croquettes 

Succotash 

Green   Corn 

Green    Corn    Pudding 

Corn   Oysters 

Creamed  Celery 

Carrots 

Cucumbers,   Stuffed 

Cauliflower 

Cabbage 


Egg   Plant 

Oyster   Plant 

Onions 

Okra 

Green   Peppers 

Parsnips 

Green   Peas 

Canned  Peas,   Creamed 

Spinach 

Spinach   Loaf 

Spinach  with  Egg 

Squash 

Turnips 

Tomatoes 

Vegetable  Cutlets 

Potatoes 

New  Potatoes 

Winter    Potatoes 

French  Fried   Potatoes 

Hashed    Browned    Potatoes 

Lyonnais  Potatoes 

Scalloped    Potatoes 

Sauces 


Mashed    Potato    Tarts    with    Peas 

Potato  Cornmeal  Muffins 

Potato    Puffs 

Potato    Croquettes 

Hungarian    Potatoes 

Potato  Loaf 

Belgian   Baked   Potatoes 

Potato  Pudding 

Sweet   Potatoes 

Scalloped   Sweets,   Southern   Style 

Potato  Ham  Balls 

Glazed  Sweet   Potatoes 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Vegetable   Chowder 

Hominy 

Fried  Hominy  Crescents 

Rice 

Rice,   Eggs   and   Bacon 

Scalloped  Rice  with  Tomatoes 

Rice  with  Meat 

Spaghetti    or   Macaroni 

Sauces    for    Spaghetti    and    Macaroni 


RECIPES 


Asparagus — This  may  be  served  as  a  vegetable 
hot,   or   as  a   salad   cold   with   French   dressing. 

On  Toast — Wash  green  asparagus,  cut  off  the 
toughest  part  of  the  thick  ends,  tie  in  a  bunch 
and  boil  gently  20  or  30  minutes  in  enough  salted 
water  to  cover.  If  canned  asparagus  is  used,  drain 
off  the  water  in  the  can,  remove  the  stalks  without 
breaking  to  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  salted 
water  until  heated  through.  Serve  on  buttered 
toast  with  melted  butter  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Creamed Cut  up  all  the  tender  parts  of  a  bunch 

of  boiled  asparagus.  Boil  down  the  water  in  which 
it  has  been  cooked  to  2/3  cupful,  add  3  tbsp. 
cream,  cook  to  a  thick  sauce,  add  J  4  teasp.  salt, 
few  grains  paprika  and  pour  over  asparagus. 
Serve  on  squares  of  toast  or  in  sauce  dishes.  This 
may  be  varied  by  adding  a  minced  hard  boiled  egg 
to  the  sauce,  or  by  laying  a  slice  of  tomato  on 
the  toast  before  pouring  the  creamed  asparagus 
over. 

Baked — Lay  the  tender  parts  of  two  bunches 
of  cooked  asparagus  in  a  shallow  casserole  or 
baking  pan.  Put  around  and  over  them  minced 
cooked  ham.  Pour  over  all  4  eggs,  ',4  teasp. 
salt,  !  g  teasp.  pepper,  4  tbsp.  minced  ham  beaten 
together  as  for  omelets.  Bake  until  the  eggs  are 
lightly  set.  about  5  minutes.  Serve  at  luncheon 
with  mashed  or  stuffed  potatoes,  or  watercress  and 
fresh    tomatoes. 


Luncheon  Asparagus  with  Vegetable  Mayon- 
naise— Arrange  4  individual  portions  of  buttered 
toast  or  fried  bread  on  a  long  dish.  Place  on  these 
cold  cooked  asparagus  and  pour  over  them  a  cold 
vegetable  mayonnaise  sauce  made  of  Yl  cupful 
shredded  cooked  vegetables,  as  carrots,  turnips, 
green  beans,  mixed  with  1  cup  thick  mayonnaise. 
Chill  on  ice  until  time  to  serve. 

Artichokes — Cut  the  stalks  close  of  1 2  arti- 
chokes, clip  sharp  points  from  leaves,  wash  and 
lay  in  cold  salted  water  for  20  minutes.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  about  45  minutes.  They 
should  be  tender  enough  to  draw  out  the  leaves. 
Drain,  serve  hot  with  Hollandaise  sauce  or  serve 
cold  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  vinaegrette  sauce  of 
6  tbsp.  olive  oil  beaten  with  1  tbsp.  vinegar,  salt, 
and  red  pepper,  chopped  parsley  and  chopped 
capers,  or  small  pickles. 

Beets — Select  young  fresh  beets,  old  ones  will 
never  cook  tender;  wash,  cut  off  leaves  one  inch 
from  beets,  cook  in  boiling  water  about  20  minutes. 
When  done,  skin,  slice  into  a  hot  dish  and  pour 
over  butter  to  which  a  little  sugar  has  been  added. 
Cover  to   keep  hot  till  served. 

Brussel  Sprouts — Pick  off  all  dark  leaves,  lay  in 
salted  water  1 5  minutes.  Drain,  cook  in  boiling 
water  uncovered  till  tender.  Drain,  serve  at  once 
with  a    good    cream   sauce. 


CLASS  1 6— VEGETABLES— RECIPES 


199 


String  Beans — I.  Select  them  young  and  crisp, 
string,  break  in  halves,  boil  about  1  hour  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover.  When  tender  and  water 
nearly  gone  add  pepper  and  salt,  butter,  and  Yl 
cup  cream.  Simmer  3  minutes,  serve  on  a  hot 
dish.  One  or  two  slices  of  salt  pork  boiled  with 
the  bean3  add  to  the  richness  of  their  flavor,  then 
omit  the  cream  in  the  sauce. 

2.  Parboil  I  qt.  green  string  bean3  30  minutes; 
drain,  add  2  tbsp.  butter,  1  teasp.  sugar,  Yl  teasp. 
salt,  dash  of  pepper.  Cook  slowly  5  minutes,  then 
add  !4  cup  meat  stock,  '/£  cup  water  the  beans 
were  boiled  in,  Yl  teasp.  lemon  juice.  Simmer 
till  tender. 

Lima  Beans — Soak  all  dried  beans  overnight  and 
cook  next  day  in  boiling  water  for  40  minutes,  or 
until  tender.  Add  salt  10  minutes  before  done, 
drain,  season  with  butter,  salt,  or  a  cream  sauce,  or 
cook  a  piece   of  salt  pork  with  them. 

Boston  Baked  Beans — Soak  1  lb.  California  pea 
beans  overnight.  Next  morning  simmer  slowly  in 
water  to  cover,  add  Ya  teasp.  soda.  When  beans 
are  swelled  but  not  bursted  lift  out  into  clear  hot 
water  for  a  few  minutes.  Wash  and  score  Yl  lb- 
salt  pork.  Put  into  a  hot  earthen  bean  pot  a  layer 
of  beans,  the  pork  in  the  center,  then  fill  up  with 
beans.  Dissolve  in  boiling  water  1  tbsp.  molasses, 
14  teasp.  mustard,  1  teasp.  salt.  Pour  over  the 
beans  and  fill  pot  with  boiling  water.  Bake  slowly 
5  or  6  hours.  Keep  beans  almost  covered  with 
water  until  the  last  hour,  then  let  water  cook  two- 
thirds  away. 

Frijoles  con  Quest) — Boil  1  pt.  red  beans  till 
soft  and  water  boiled  down;  drain,  turn  into  fry- 
ing pan  with  2  tbsp.  butter,  salt,-  cayenne,  and 
!4  lb.  grated  cheese.  Stir  until  cheese  thoroughly 
blends.      Serve   hot. 

Kidney  Bean  Stew — Put  on  to  stew  1  cup  soaked 
red  kidney  beans  with  1  pt.  canned  tomatoes,  Yh 
teasp.  pepper,  1  teasp.  salt.  Clean,  cut  up  1  small 
oxtail;  add  to  the  beans  with  water  to  cover.  Sim- 
mer 3  hours,  add  a  sprig  of  parsley  the  last  half 
hour. 

Bean  Loaf — Mash  fine  1  cup  cooked  beans,  add 
1  Yl  cups  bread  crumbs,    J4    green  pepper,  minced, 

1  cup  cream  or  rich  milk,  1  cup  cooked  tomatoes, 
few  grains  paprika,  %  teasp.  salt.  Mix  all  together. 
Bake  in  buttered  dish  in  moderate  oven  1  hour. 
Serve  hot  or  cold,  sliced.  If  the  green  pepper  is 
omitted,    garnish  with  thin   slices  of  pimiento. 

Kidney  Beans  and  Rice  (with  Brown  Sauce) — 
Cook  1  pt.  shelled  beans  in  salted  water  until  ten- 
der. Make  a  brown  sauce  of  2  tbsp.  butter  or  beef 
suet  browned,    1   tbsp.  flour  stirred  in  and  browned, 

2  cups  beef  stock  added.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  When  beans  are  done,  add  brown  sauce 
and    1    cup  cooked  rice.      Cook    1    minute.      If  gravy 


is  used  in  place  of  stock,  omit  the  butter.  In  food 
value  this  dish  takes  the  place  of  both  meat  and 
potatoes. 

The  Soy  Bean  or  "Togo  Bean" — Soy  beans  are 
rich  in  protein  and  fat  and  lacking  in  starch,  so 
should  be  cooked  without  fat  pork  and  served  at 
the  same  meal  with  a  starchy  vegetable,  as  rice, 
to  make  a  balanced  ration.  Any  recipe  for  dried 
beans  may  be  used  for  Soy  beans  by  omitting  the 
fat  pork. 

Soy  Bean  Loaf — Pick  over  and  mash  2  cupfuls 
Soy  beans.  Cover  with  water  and  let  stand  at 
least  1 2  hours.  Drain.  Cook  in  fresh  water  with 
Yz  level  teasp.  salt  until  tender,  longer  than  the  1 
hour  for  navy  beans.  When  done,  drain,  put  aside 
the  water  for  soup.  Serve  the  beans  plain  with 
rice  and  spinach,  or  mash  beans  and  cool  for  a 
loaf.  Add  I  minced  onion,  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
and  black  pepper,  2  cups  toasted  bread  crumb3, 
I Y2  cups  milk.  Mix  well,  fold  in  2  well-beaten 
eggs.  Bake  in  a  flat  buttered  pan  for  40  minutes, 
basting  with  Ya  cuP  milk.  Brown,  slice  and  serve 
hot   with    tomato    sauce    and    boiled    rice. 

Lentil  Croquettes — Soak  and  cook  lentils  as 
dried  beans.  Rub  I  cup  soft  cooked  lentils  through 
strainer  to  remove  skins.  Mix  with  1  cup  cooked 
rice,  Yl  CUP  milk,  1  beaten  egg,  a  bit  of  sage  and 
salt  to  taste.  Form  into  croquettes,  roll  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs.  Moisten  the  tops  with 
a   little   milk  and  bake  in   oven   until  brown. 

Succotash — Put  soaked  lima  beans  on  to  boil. 
When  almost  done,  add  corn  cut  from  the  cobs. 
Have  twice  as  much  corn  as  beans.  Boil  together 
20  minutes,  until  nearly  dry,  adding  butter  if  the 
beans  have  not  been  boiled  with  salt  pork.  Season 
■with  pepper  and  salt,  Yl  CUP  rich  milk.  Simmer 
and    stir    3    minutes.      Serve. 

Green  Corn — Select  fresh  tender  corn.  Boil  I  5 
minutes.  Send  to  the  table  at  once  in  a  napkin 
or  covered  dish.  Tender  corn  is  often  toughened 
by  cooking  too  long. 

Green  Corn  Pudding — Remove  husks  and  silk 
from  I  dozen  small  ears  of  corn.  Cut  the  kernels 
down  fine  and  scrape  cob.  Turn  the  corn  into  Yz 
pt.  hot  milk,  thickened  with  1  tbsp.  butter,  I  tbsp. 
flour,  Yl  teasp.  sugar,  J4  teasp.  salt.  Add  1  or  2 
beaten  eggs.  Stir  well  together.  Pour  into  but- 
tered baking  dish.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  30 
minutes.  Sprinkle  buttered  crumbs  over  top  and 
brown.      Serve  in  baking  dish. 

Corn  Oysters — To    1    pt.    grated   corn  or  canned 

corn    mashed,    add     I     or    2    eggs,    2    large  grated 

crackers    or    Yz     teacup    flour.       Beat    well,  season 

with    salt    and    pepper.       Drop    by    spoonfuls  in    hot 

fat.  When  brown,  drain  as  fried  oysters.  Serve 
hot  with  jelly  or  maple  syrup  for  breakfast,  or  for 
lunch  with  cold  boiled   ham. 


200       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Creamed  Celery  —  Cut  off  the  leaves,  wash, 
scrape  and  cut  into  inch  pieces  I  bunch  of  celery. 
The  leaves  may  be  used  to  flavor  soup.  Boil  the 
celery  in  slightly  salted  water  30  minutes.  When 
tender  and  water  boiled  down,  add  a  white  sauce, 
stir  lightly,  serve  hot. 

Carrots — Wash,  scrape,  cut  in  size  preferred; 
boil  20  minutes  if  cut  up  small  and  serve  with 
sauce  as  creamed  celery.  If  cut  in  lengthwise 
pieces,  boil  30  minutes  and  fry  as  parsnips. 

Stuffed  Cucumbers — Cut  in  half  lengthwise  3 
large  cucumbers:  scoop  out  centers.  Fill  with  a 
bread  or  meat  stuffing  or  one  made  of  3  chopped 
tomatoes,  Yl  cup  minced  ham,  Yl  cup  soft  bread 
crumbs,  I  small  onion  minced,  1  tbsp.  Worcester-  ' 
shire  sauce,  1  tbsp.  olive  oil.  Pour  1  cup  boiling 
water  around  the  stuffed  cucumbers.  Bake  20 
minutes,  or  simmer  on  top  of  stove  until  tender. 
Serve  with  a  white   sauce   or  a  tomato  sauce. 

Cauliflower — Cut  off  all  green  leaves  and  coarse 
stalk.  Cover  with  cold  salted  water  30  minutes. 
Drain  in  a  cheesecloth,  boil  gently  in  salted  water 
20  minutes  or  till  tender.  Drain,  pour  over  it  a 
cream  sauce.      Serve  hot  with  fried  chicken. 

Boiled  Cabbage — Lay  cabbage  head  down  in 
salted  cold  water  !  5  minutes  or  more.  Drain, 
trim  off  any  unsightly  leaves.  Boil  either  whole, 
in  quarters  or  chopped  fine,  in  salted  water;  add 
pinch  of  soda.  When  tender,  drain,  chop  fine  if 
preferred.  Serve  with  butter  or  vinegar  or  a 
cream  sauce. 

Cabbage  is  richer  in  flavor  if  cooked  in  water 
in  which  salt  pork  has  been  boiled.  When  done, 
mince  the  salt  pork  with  the  cabbage. 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Cabbage — 1.  Rub  together  I 
tbsp.  flour,  1  tbsp.  butter,  1  cup  milk;  stir,  boil 
up  once,  add  1  teasp.  salt,  1  saltsp.  pepper.  Pour 
over  2  qts.  of  finely  chopped  boiled  cabbage. 

2.  Add  to  the  above  white  sauce  2  chopped  hard 
boiled    eggs,    1    tbsp.    grated    cheese. 

3.  Beat  together  1  or  2  egg  yolks,  2  tbsp. 
sugar,  2  tbsp.  vinegar,  1  teasp.  butter,  salt,  cayenne 
pepper.  Heat,  stir  until  it  boils,  add  1  cup  cream 
or  rich  milk,  boil  up,  pour  over  hot  boiled  cabbage 
or   raw  minced   cabbage. 

Stuffed  Cabbage — Parboil  a  firm  head  of  cab- 
bage. Cut  out  a  piece  of  stalk  at  bottom,  mak- 
ing a  cavity  to  hold  1  cupful  of  stuffing.  Tie  the 
stuffed  cabbage  in  cheesecloth.  Cook  for  \]/2 
hours  in  salted  boiling  water.  When  done,  dish, 
remove  cloth,  serve  with  a  cream  sauce  poured 
over,  with  a  sprinkling  of  cheese  if  liked. 

Stuffing — 1.  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  Yl  cup  ground 
cooked  ham  or  veal,  a  pinch  of  summer  savory. 
Moisten  all  with  melted  butter. 

2.  1  tbsp.  minced  fat  salt  pork,  1  tbsp.  minced 
beef,    1    teasp.    each   minced    onion    and   parsley,    1 


teasp.  salt,  pinch  of  cayenne,  I  tbsp.  creamed 
butter,  2  slices  bread  soaked  in  milk  and  2  beaten 
egg  yolks. 

Slaw — Soak  a  cabbage  head  down  in  cold  salted 
water,  add  1  teasp.  borax  to  make  the  leaves  crisp. 
Drain,  wash,  chop  fine  and  serve  cold  with  a 
French  dressing  or  thin  mayonnaise,  or  cold  with 
hot  cabbage  sauce  No.  3  poured  over. 

Eggplant  —  Stuffed  —  Cut  in  two  lengthwise, 
scrape  out  center,  leaving  a  shell  Yl  mch  thick. 
Mix  with  minced  ham  or  veal,  2  tbsp.  grated 
crumbs,  I  tbsp.  butter,  Yz  minced  onion,  salt  and 
pepper.  Stuff.  Top  with  lumps  of  butter.  Bake 
1 5   minutes. 

Fried — Cut  in  slices,  lay  in  salt  water  2  hours. 
Wipe  dry,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in  yolk 
of  egg,  then  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat  till 
brown. 

Fritters — Parboil,  roll  slices  in  fritter  batter  and 
fry;  or  parboil,  mash,  season,  mix  with  a  batter  of 
2  tbsp.  flour,  1  teasp.  butter  and  milk.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  in  hot  fat,  brown,  drain.     Serve  very  hot. 

Oyster  Plant  or  Salsify — Scrape,  throw  into  cold 
water.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water,  add  a  little 
vinegar  to  keep  them  white.  When  done,  drain, 
and  either  ( I )  mash,  season  with  butter,  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  pepper,  or  (2)  dip  each  piece  in 
fritter  batter  and  fry  brown,  or  (3)  cut  into  inch 
lengths,   pour  over  it  a  white  sauce. 

Onions — Baked — Boil  in  salted  water  until  almost 
tender,  lift  out,  place  in  baking  dish,  top  each 
onion  with  butter,  bake  in  hot  oven  1 0  or  15  min- 
utes.     When  brown,  serve  in  baking  dish. 

Creamed  —  Pour  over  boiled  onions  a  white 
sauce. 

Okra — Boiled  Whole — Cut  off  stems,  was*, 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain. 
Turn  into  a  saucepan  with  melted  butter,  salt, 
pepper,   a  little  vinegar.      Simmer   5    minutes. 

Stewed  with  Tomatoes — Wash  and  slice  okra. 
Stew  with  equal  amount  of  tomatoes,  1  minced 
sweet  pepper,  1  teasp.  salt,  1  teasp.  butter.  Serve 
in  hot  dish  or  pour  over  hot  boiled   rice. 

Green  Peppers  (Baked) — When  stuffing  green 
peppers  for  baking,  if  they  are  oiled  first  they 
will  not  turn  brown.  Wash  4  peppers,  cut  a  slice 
off  the  top,  remove  seeds.  Stuff  ( I )  with  a  dress- 
ing similar  to  cabbage  stuffing,  or  (2)  with  left 
over  meat  or  fresh  round  steak  ground.  Put  meat 
into  the  peppers  in  alternate  layers  with  mashed 
potatoes  or  buttered  boiled  rice.  Top  each  with 
butter.     Cover,  bake  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 

Parsnips — Wash,  boil  in  salted  water  until  ten- 
der. Skin,  serve  plain  or  mashed,  season  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  or  a  white  sauce. 


CLASS  1 6— VEGETABLES— RECIPES 


201 


Fried — Parboil  whole,  skin,  slice,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper.  Brown  in  bacon  fat  or 
dip  in  fritter  batter  and  brown  in  hot  fat. 

Green  Peas — Boiled — Fresh  green  peas  should 
be  cooked  soon  after  picked.  Shell  them,  wash  the 
pods,  boil  for  20  minutes.  Take  out  the  pods,  add 
the  peas  and  more  water  if  needed  to  half  cover. 
Add  salt  the  last  10  minutes.  When  tender,  use 
1  tbsp.  of  the  water  with  butter  or  cream  and  bit 
of  sugar.  Heat  the  peas  in  the  sauce,  serve  at 
once. 

Pea  Souffle 4   tablespoons    flour,    4    tablespoons 

fat,  1  cup  skim  milk,  1  cup  mashed  cooked  peas 
(any  kind),  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  salt,  !4  teaspoon 
pepper,   few  drops  of  onion  juice. 

Make  a  white  sauce  from  flour,  fat  and  milk. 
Mash  the  cooked  peas  to  a  pulp.  Beat  whites  and 
yolks  of  eggs  separately.  Mix  vegetable  pulp,  sea- 
sonings, sauce  and  well-beaten  yolks.  Fold  in 
stiffly-beaten  whites,  put  in  greased  baking  dish 
and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  firm.  Lima  beans, 
split  peas,  cowpeas,  or  fresh  or  canned  green 
peas   may   be   used. 

Fricasseed — Season  fresh  boiled  peas  with  a 
white  sauce.  When  ready  to  serve  add  yolks  of  I 
or  2   eggs  in    I    tbsp.   cream. 

Creamed  Canned  Peas — Stir  into  2  cups  canned 
peas  1  cup  rich  milk  thickened  with  2  tbsp.  flour, 
1  tbsp.  butter,  '/6  teasp.  sugar,  paprika.  Simmer 
5  minutes,  stirring  gently  not  to  break  the  peas. 
Serve  (I)  hot  on  buttered  toast,  or  (2)  pour  out 
on  a  dish,  cool  until  set,  then  cover  with  a  layer 
of  strained  seasoned  tomatoes.  Garnish  with  sliced 
hard  boiled  egg.  This  is  nice  with  cold  sliced 
meats. 

Spinach  —  Select  tender  fresh-looking  greens. 
Cut  off  roots,  wash  carefully  through  several 
waters.  Cook  in  a  very  little  water,  cover  and 
boil  fast  15  minutes.  Drain,  chop  fine,  stir  in  a 
sauce  of  1  tbsp.  butter,  I  tbsp.  cream,  salt  and 
pepper.  Keep  hot  and  arrange  in  hot  serving 
dish.     Garnish  with  sliced  hard  boiled  egg. 

Beet  Tops,  young  turnip  tops,  dandelion  greens 
and  kale  may  be  cooked  in  same  way. 

Spinach  Loaf — You  can  make  a  small  can  of 
spinach,  chard,  or  beet  tops  serve  seven  or  eight 
people  by  making  into  a  loaf  combined  with  rice 
or  bread  crumbs.  Asparagus  or  string  beans  are 
also  good  served  this  way. 

One  can  chopped  spinach,  4  cups  boiled  rice,  2 
cups  white  sauce,   1   red  pepper. 

Make  a  thick  white  sauce  of  two  cups  skim  milk, 
four  tablespoons  flour,  four  tablespoons  oleomar- 
garine and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Melt  fat  and  mix 
with  flour,  add  to  milk  and  stir  over  fire  until  it 
thickens.  Mix  with  the  rice,  chopped  spinach  and 
pepper.  Form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  20  or  30 
minutes. 


Spinach  with  Eggs  —  Mash  yolks  of  several 
boiled  eggs  with  salt,  pepper,  I  teasp.  butter.  Mix 
with  hot  spinach  and  heap  it  on  the  white  halves 
of  eggs.  Pour  over  all  a  sauce  made  of  2  cups 
milk,  1  tbsp.  butter,  2  tbsp.  flour,  paprika,  salt, 
Yz  cup  grated  cheese.  Set  the  dish  in  hot  oven 
5    minutes.      Garnish  with    toast   and   serve. 

Squash — Wash  and  pare  squash,  cut  in  quar- 
ters, boil  or  steam  until  tender.  Drain  in  a  cheese- 
cloth, press  out  all  water.  Return  to  stove,  beat 
in  a  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  at 
once. 

Fried — To  fry  squash,  wash,  pare  and  slice  in 
thick  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  flour; 
brown  in  hot  fat.  Cook  slowly,  covered;  serve  hot. 
Turnips — Pare  turnips,  boil  45  minutes  in  plenty 
of  water,  salted.  When  tender,  drain,  season  plain 
or  mashed,  with  salt,  pepper,  butter.  If  mashed 
they  may  be  heaped  into  a  mound  on  a  baking 
dish.  Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  brown  in 
oven;  or: 

Boil  turnips  until  tender,  add  cream  and  butter, 
salt,  simmer  3  minutes,  serve;  or: 

Cut  boiled  turnips  in  cubes  and  serve  with  white 
sauce. 

Tomatoes  (Raw) — To  peel  tomatoes  for  serving 
raw,  dip  in  boiling  water  and  remove  at  once  to 
cool.  Peel  off  the  thin  outer  skin  and  return  to 
ice  box  to   chill  before  serving. 

Broiled — Slice  or  cut  tomato  in  half  across  the 
grain.  Broil  on  very  hot  gridiron.  When  brown, 
turn,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  and 
remove  carefully  to  hot  dish. 

Stewed — (I)  Slice  and  put  on  in  very  little 
water,  add  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Cover  pot 
and  simmer  15  minutes.  (2)  To  I  can  good 
tomatoes  add  1  pinch  soda,  I  small  chopped  onion, 
2  tbsp.  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  2  tbsp.  bread  crumbs. 
Cook  slowly  45  minutes.  Just  before  serving  stir 
in    I    heaping  teasp.  butter. 

Baked — (I)  Plain:  Cut  a  thin  slice  off  the  stem 
ends  and  arrange  6  tomatoes  in  a  baking  dish. 
Sprinkle  with  a  mixed  dressing  of  2  tbsp.  sugar,  2 
tbsp.  butter,  I  /3  teasp.  pepper,  I  Yz  teasp.  salt. 
Cover  and  simmer  5  minutes  on  top  of  stove. 
Dredge  with  flour,  bake  uncovered  in  hot  oven. 
(2)  Stuffed:  Cut  a  slice  off  the  ends  of  tomatoes, 
take  out  the  seeds  and  mix  with  a  seasoned  rice 
dressing,  or  one  of  bread  crumbs,  butter  and  cheese, 
or  ground  meat  seasoned.  Stuff  tomatoes  and 
bake  Yz  hour. 

Fried — Cut  fresh  tomatoes  in  halves  or  slices  I 
inch  thick;  dip  in  fine  bread  crumbs  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar.  Brown  quickly  in  hot 
butter  or  lard  or  bacon  fat.  Cook  slowly;  when 
tender,  remove  carefully  without  breaking.  Serve 
hot.  Tomatoes  fried  may  be  served  with  a  cream 
gravy  poured  over  or  a  white  sauce  cooked  with 
I    teasp.  curry. 


202       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Scalloped — Use  either  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes 
in  alternate  layers  with  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle 
each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  sugar  or 
with  chopped  onion  or   chopped   green  pepper. 

Tomatoes  with  Eggs — Cut  a  slice  off  the  end  of 
each  tomato,  scoop  out  the  seeds,  slide  a  raw  egg 
into  the  cavity,  add  Yl  teasp.  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  chopped  parsley.  Bake  gently  until  egg  is  set, 
sprinkle  with  toasted  bread  crumbs.  Serve  on 
toast   or   fried    bread. 

Vegetable  Cutlets — One  cup  cooked  rice,  2  cups 
cooked  beans,  I  cup  mashed  potatoes,  I  table- 
spoon oil  or  savory  fat,  2  tablespoons  onion,  2 
tablespoons  cornstarch,  1/3  cup  tomato,  Yl  Sea" 
spoon    salt. 

Directions — Put  the  rice  and  beans  through  the 
meat  chopper,  mix  with  the  potato  thoroughly. 
Cook  the  onion  in  the  fat,  stir  in  the  cornstarch 
and  the  tomato  and  salt.  Combine  the  two  mix- 
tures, shape  like  cutlets  and  bake  Yl  hour  >n  a 
quick   oven,    basting  twice   with   fat   or   oil. 

POTATOES 

Potatoes — Potatoes  are  composed  principally  of 
starch  and  water.  As  they  are  lacking  in  protein 
they  should  be  served  ■with  meat,  fish  or  eggs. 
They  give  the  necessary  bulk  to  food. 

New  Potatoes — Scrape  until  white,  wash  in  cold 
and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  about  30  min- 
utes; drain,  shake  dry  over  fire.  Serve  plain 
with  butter,  or  pour  over  them  a  white  sauce. 
This  may  be  seasoned  with  chopped  meat  or  pars- 
ley or  grated  cheese. 

Old  or  Winter  Potatoes  (Boiled  Plain)— rPeel 
thin  or  scrape,  soak  in  cold  water,  boil  in  salted 
water  45  minutes,  or  until  they  can  be  pierced  with 
a  fork;  drain;  or:  Wash  and  boil  with  skins  on; 
when  done,  drain,  set  back  uncovered  to  steam 
dry,  skin  while  hot.  Serve  plain  with  salt  and 
butter  or  brush  over  with  butter  and  brown  quickly 
under  oven   flame. 

Mashed — Boil  6  potatoes,  drain,  mash  while  hot 
and  beat  to  a  snow  white  stiffness  with  2  tbsp. 
butter,  I  teasp.  salt,  rich  milk  enough  to  moisten. 
Serve  at  once  on  hot  dish.  Stiff  whites  of  eggs 
or  grated  cheese  beaten  in  last  add  to  the  lightness 
and    richness  of  the  potatoes. 

Baked  Mashed — Spread  hot  mashed  potatoes  in 
a  mound  or  drop  from  a  large  spoon  on  a  but- 
tered fireproof  dish.  Lay  on  top  a  heavy  layer 
of  thin  sliced  or  grated  cheese.  Heat  in  oven 
until  cheese  melts.  Grate  bread  crumbs  over  and 
brown. 

Potato  Sausages — One  cup  mashed  potatoes,  1 
cup  ground  nuts,  fish  or  meat,  1  egg,  well  beaten, 
1  Yl  teaspoons  salt,  Y&  teaspoon  pepper,  salt  pork, 
bacon   or  other   fat. 


Mix  the  mashed  potatoes  and  seasonings  with 
the  ground  nuts,  fish  or  meat.  Add  beaten  egg. 
Form  into  little  cakes  or  sausages,  roll  in  flour  and 
place  in  greased  pan  with  a  small  piece  of  fat  or 
salt  pork  on  each  sausage.  Bake  in  a  fairly  hot 
oven    until   brown. 

Scalloped  Potatoes  and  Cheese — Arrange  a 
layer  of  sliced  raw  or  boiled  potatoes  in  greased 
baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  a 
little  flour.  Repeat  until  dish  is  nearly  full.  Pour 
milk  over  the  whole,  about  Yl  CUP  to  every  3  pota- 
toes. Skim  milk  is  good.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  done.  The  length  of  time  required  depends 
upon  whether  the  potatoes  are  raw  or  boiled  and 
whether  the  baking  dish  used  is  deep  or  shallow. 
Boiled  potatoes  baked  in  a  shallow  dish  will  take 
only  20  minutes.  Raw  potatoes  in  a  deep  dish 
may  take  as  much  as   1  Yl   hours. 

Baked  Stuffed — Take  6  baked  potatoes  from  oven 
when  about  done.  Cut  in  two  lengthwise  or  slice 
end  off  each  without  breaking  skin  and  scoop  out 
inside.  Prepare  as  for  mashed  potatoes  with  3 
tbsp.  butter,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  J/g  teasp.  pepper,  I  tbsp. 
chopped  parsley,  Ml  cup  hot  milk.  Return  mixture 
to  potato  shells,  brush  with  butter  or  egg  and 
brown  in  oven. 

French  Fried  Potatoes — Peel  the  raw  potatoes, 
slice  and  lay  in  ice  cold  water  1  hour,  put  for  a 
moment  in  hot  water,  drain,  wipe  dry,  place  in 
a  frying  basket  or  large  strainer  and  lower  it  into 
deep  hot  fat  for  about  10  minutes.  Lift  out  when 
brown,  sprinkle  salt  over  and  serve  at  once. 

Hashed  Browned Make  a  white  sauce  of  2  tbsp. 

cream,  I  teasp.  flour,  1  teasp.  salt,  I  teasp.  minced 
parsley,  pepper;  add  chopped  cooked  potatoes. 
Toss  all  together  lightly  then  turn  into  a  buttered 
pan  and  brown  in  oven,  or  turn  into  omelet. pan; 
cook  slowly  20  minutes,  fold  and  serve  like  an 
omelet. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes — Slice  or  dice  6  boiled  pota- 
toes; fry  2  sliced  onions  in  hot  drippings,  turn  the 
potatoes  in  with  the  onions  and  toss  over  with  a 
fork  until  brown.  Add  1  tbsp.  minced  parsley, 
cook    1    minute.      Drain  off  any  grease,  serve. 

Scalloped  en  Casserole Pare  and  slice  4  pota- 
toes, lay  in  cold  water  Yl  hour,  drain  and  parboil 
5  minutes  in  salted  water.  Arrange  in  buttered 
baking  dish  or  casserole  in  layers  with  seasonings 
of  Yl  teasp.  salt,  pepper,  I  tbsp.  butter,  1  tbsp. 
bread  crumbs.  Pour  over  this  any  one  of  the 
following  sauces  and  bake  in  hot  oven  about  1 5 
minutes   till  done. 

Sauce 1.    Scalded     milk    to    cover,    seasoned     if 

liked  with  few  drops  lemon  juice. 

2.  A  white  sauce  to  which  2  tbsp.  grated  cheese 
or  sliced  hard  boiled  eggs  have  been  added. 

3.  I    cupful  seasoned   white  stock. 


CLASS  1 6— VEGETABLES— RECIPES 


203 


Mashed  Potato  Tarts  (with  Peas  and  Carrots) — 
Line  muffin  pans  with  pastry,  make  a  nest  in  each 
with  mashed  potatoes,  brush  over  with  butter  and 
whites  of  egg,  brown  in  oven,  then  fill  with  cooked 
peas  and  carrots,  pour  over  them  a  little  cream 
sauce.      Serve. 

Potato  Cornmeal  Muffins — Two  tablespoons  fat, 
I  tablespoon  sugar,  1  egg,  well  beaten,  I  cup  milk, 
I  cup  mashed  potatoes,  I  cup  cornmeal,  4  tea- 
spoons   baking    powder,     I    teaspoon    salt. 

Mix  in  order  given.  Bake  40  minutes  in  hot 
oven.      This  makes   1  2  muffins.      They  are  delicious. 

Potato  Puffs — (I)  Shape  mashed  potatoes  while 
hot  into  balls  size  of  an  egg,  brush  over  with 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  brown  in  oven. 

(2)  2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  stir  in  2  tbsp. 
melted  butter.  Beat  to  a  white  cream,  add  to  this 
1  or  2  stiffly  beaten  eggs,  Yl  teacup  rich  milk, 
salted.  Beat  well,  pour  in  deep  dish  or  drop  into 
greased  muffin  rings  arranged  on  a  fireproof  dish. 
Bake  in  quick  oven  till  brown. 

Potatoe  Croquettes — Mash  boiled  potatoes  while 
hot,  fold  them  into  a  pan  with  2  tbsp.  melted  but- 
ter, 2  tbsp.  cream  or  rich  milk,  I  teasp.  chopped 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  1  or  2  egg  yolks 
with  1  tbsp.  milk  and  add  to  potatoes.  Stir  well 
over  fire  until  mixture  is  set,  then  put  aside  to 
cool.  Then  shape  into  oblong  croquettes,  brush 
over  with  beaten  egg  white,  bread  crumbs,  and 
drop  into  hot  fat.  When  brown,  drain,  serve  at 
once   garnished  with  parsley. 

Hungarian  Potatoes — One  quart  cooked  potatoes, 
3  tablespoons  fat,  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  2 
tablespoons  parsley,  2  cups  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon 
salt,    Ya    teaspoon   paprika. 

Brown  onion  slightly  in  fat  and  add  to  diced 
potatoes.  Add  remaining  ingredients  except  pars- 
ley to  potatoes  and  put  in  greased  pan.  Bake 
covered  in  a  moderate  oven  45  minutes.  Sprinkle 
top  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

Potato     Loaf Two     cups     mashed     potatoes,     4 

tablespoons  minced  onion,  2  tablespoons  green 
pepper  or  pimento  pepper,  Yl  cup  canned  toma- 
toes, 1  egg,  I  teaspoon  salt,  1/3  cup  ground  pea- 
nuts. 

Directions Mix    the    ingredients    well    together. 

Turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  baking  dish. 
Brush  it  over  with  melted  butter  or  drippings. 
Bake   it   in   a   moderate   oven   for   25    minutes. 

Belgian  Baked  Potatoes — Wash,  pare  and  cut 
into  pieces  as  for  French  fried  potatoes.  Lay 
potatoes  on  an  oiled  pan,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  until  puffed, 
golden  brown  and  mealy. 


Potato   Pudding    (Uses   No    Wheat    Flour) — One 

and  a  quarter  cups  mashed  potatoes,  4  tablespoons 
fat,  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  Yl  <="P  milk,  <4  teaspoon 
salt,  Yl  lemon  (juice  and  rind),  I  tablespoon 
sugar,    Yl    cup    raisins  and   nut   meats. 

Boil  potatoes,  mash,  and  add  fat,  eggs,  milk, 
lemon  juice,  grated  peel  and  sugar.  Beat  all  in- 
gredients together  and  bake  in  greased  dish  f$ 
hour  or   longer.      Serve  with   top   milk. 

BAKED   POTATO   DON'TS 

The  Irishman  claims  that  the  only  thing  better 
than  a  good  baked  potato  is  two  baked  potatoes. 
Here   are   some    baked   potato   don'ts: 

Don't  have  your  oven  too  hot. 

Don't    have    different-sized    potatoes. 

Don't  delay  in  getting  them  into  the  oven — they 
will    not    hurry   when    the    time    is   short. 

Don't  fail  to  allow  them  from  45  minutes  to  an 
hour  for  a   medium-sized    (6  ounce)    potato. 

Don't   select  potatoes   that  are   too  big. 

Don't  put  them  into  your  oven  dripping  with 
cold  water. 

Don't  plan  to  serve  them  as  a  second  course  in 
a  dinner;  it  is  difficult  to  get  them  just  right — use 
them   with   the   first   course   in   a   lunch   or   supper. 

BOILED   POTATO   DO'S 

Do  select  potatoes  of  uniform  size. 

Do    wash   and   scrub   thoroughly. 

Do  boil  in  the  skin  unless  the  potatoes  are  old 
and   strong  tasting. 

Do  soak  the  potato  in  cold  water  for  several 
hours   before   cooking   if   it  is   old   and   shrunken. 

Do  remove  the  thinnest  possible  layer  of  skin 
if  the  potato  must  be  pared,  and  drop  it  into  cold 
water. 

Do   cook  in   boiling  salted  water   till   tender. 

Do    drain    thoroughly   and    pare    immediately. 

Do  see  that  all  steam  is  driven  off  so  that  the 
potato    is   dry  and    mealy. 

Ways   of  Preparing   to   Insure   a    Minimum    of   Loss 
Baked — Convert  into  stuffed  potatoes  if  desired. 

Boiled  in  Skins — While  still  hot  remove  peeling, 
and  brown  whole  in  a  small  amount  of  savory  fat 
(bacon  fat  or  fat  from  meat  lesson)  or  vegetable 
oil. 

"Stewed"  Potatoes — Cut  pared  potatoes  in  thin 
slices,  barely  cover  with  water  and  add  salt  and 
butter  to  season.  Boil  until  slices  are  tender  but 
still  whole  and  just  enough  water  left  to  make 
them  juicy.      No  water  should   be   poured   off. 

Sweet  Potatoes — These  may  be  prepared  in  ways 
similar  to   those  given   for  white  potatoes. 


204        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Scalloped  Sweets  (Southern  Style) — Peel  3  large 
sweet  potatoes,  cut  into  '/£  inch  slices.  Put  into 
a  buttered  baking  dish  in  three  layers.  Sprinkle 
between  each  layer  1  tbsp.  sugar  and  dots  of  but- 
ter. Pour  in  gently  Yl  CUP  boiled  syrup  made  of 
Yl  cup  brown  sugar,  Yl  teasp.  butter,  1  tbsp.  water. 
Bake  in  a  covered  dish  in  oven  until  potatoes  are 
done  and  syrup  has  boiled  down  some.  Uncover 
and  brown.  The  potatoes  will  have  a  candied 
coating  and  some  syrup.      Serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

Sweet  Potato  Ham  Balls — Beat  into  a  stiff  mix- 
ture 2  cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  Yl  CUP  toasted 
bread  crumbs,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  teasp.  chopped 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Mold  pieces  of  the  mix- 
ture around  small  balls  of  minced  ham  or  cooked 
pork.  Drop  these  croquettes  into  boiling  water. 
Boil  15  minutes,  giving  the  balls  time  to  swell  and 
cook  to  the  center.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  buttered 
toasted  crumbs.      Serve. 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes — Wash,  pare,  put  at  once 
into  cold  water  or  they  will  discolor,  soak  1  hour. 
Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  about  done. 
Drain,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise.  Make  a  syrup 
by  boiling  Yl  CUP  sugar,  4  tbsp.  water,  1  tbsp. 
butter.  Put  potatoes  in  a  buttered  pan,  brush 
with  syrup,  bake  brown,  basting  with  syrup.  Serve 
with  roast  pork  or  veal. 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes — Boil  medium-sized 
sweet  potatoes  45  minutes.  Peel  them  and  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise.  Put  them  in  a  baking  pan  and 
baste  with  drippings,  and  season  with  salt.  Cook 
them  in  a   hot  oven  for   20   minutes. 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes — Peel  the  potatoes  and 
boil  until  about  half  done.  Cut  in  /lengthwise 
slices  and  lay  in  shallow  greased  pan.  Pour  over 
a  syrup  of  half  a  cupful  of  crushed  maple  sugar, 
Y*  cup  of  boiling  water  and  2  tablespoons  of  fat. 
Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  baste  frequently 
with  syrup  until  potatoes  are  done  and  well  can- 
died. 

Vegetable  Chowder — Here  is  a  vegetable  chow- 
der that  is  good.  It  makes  a  substantial  dish.  Rice 
and  okra  may  be  substituted  for  potatoes  and  car- 
rots or  almost  any  vegetables  may  be  used. 

Four  potatoes,  3  carrots,  3  onions,  1  pint  canned 
tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  fat  or  a  piece  of  salt  pork, 
3  level  tablespoons  flour,  2  cups  skim  milk,  2  tea- 
spoons salt. 

Cut  potatoes  and  carrots  in  small  pieces,  add 
enough  water  to  cover,  and  cook  for  20  minutes. 
Do  not  drain  off  the  water.  Brown  the  chopped 
onion  in  the  fat  for  5  minutes.  Add  this  and  the 
tomatoes  to  the  vegetables.  Heat  to  boiling,  add 
2  cups  of  skim  milk,  and  thicken  with  flour.  Cel- 
ery tops  or  green  peppers  give  good  flavor,  too. 

Hominy — Wash  I  cup  hominy,  soak  overnight 
in  I  qt.  cold  water.  In  morning  drain  and  cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  several  hours.  Serve  with 
butter. 


Fried  Hominy  Crescents — Scald  1  cup  milk,  1 
cup  white  stock  or  water,  I  tbsp.  butter,  I  bay  leaf. 
Stir  in  2/3  cup  soaked  hominy.  Cook  1  hour.  Re- 
move bay  leaf.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  I  or  2  eggs. 
Pour  out  on  buttered  pan  to  cool.  Cut  into 
crescents  or  shape  round.  Dip  into  the  beaten 
whites  of  egg,  then  into  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in 
deep  hot  fat.      Drain,  serve  hot. 

Rice — Rice  is  more  than  Ya  starch.  Starch  gives 
heat  and  strength  to   the  body. 

Rice  should  be  washed  thoroughly  in  cold  water, 
boiled  rapidly  for  20  or  30  minutes.  To  I  qt. 
boiling  water  add  Yl  CUP  washed  rice,  1  teasp. 
salt.  When  rice  is  tender  drain  in  a  colander, 
pour  boiling  water  over  and  shake  until  the  ker- 
nels separate.      Serve  hot  with  butter  or   gravy. 

For  rice  steamed  in  a  double  boiler  use  half  the 
amount  of  water. 

Rice  with  Curry — To  Yl  CUP  fresh  boiled  rice 
use  Yl  teasp.  curry  powder  diluted  in  hot  water 
and  combined  with  1  cup  white  sauce.  Pour  this 
over  the  hot  drained  rice  and  serve  with  mutton 
or  veal. 

Rice;  Eggs  and  Bacon — Beat  I  or  2  eggs  into  I 
cup  boiled  rice.  Turn  this  into  a  griddle  in  which 
bacon  has  been  fried.  Brown  on  one  side,  turn 
and  brown  on  the  other.  Serve  with  slices  of 
crisp  hot  bacon. 

Scalloped  Rice  with  Tomatoes — Heat  2  cupfuls 
tomatoes  with  Yl  small  minced  onion,  dash  of 
pepper,  Ya  teasp.  salt,  Y\  teasp.  sugar.  Into  a 
buttered  baking  dish  spread  a  layer  of  tomatoes 
followed  by  rice  with  a  sprinkling  of  minced  pimen- 
toes  and  dots  of  butter.  Repeat  these  layers, 
sprinkle  the  top  with  2  tbsp.  bread  crumbs.  Bake 
30  minutes  in  oven. 

Rice  and  Meat  Drop  Cakes — Mix  1  cup  boiled 
rice  with  I  cup  ground  or  devilled  ham  or  left  over, 
meat.  Stir  it  into  a  batter  made  of  I  teasp.  baking 
powder  sifted  with  [4  lb.  flour,  1  teasp.  shortening, 
J4  pt.  milk.  Beat  all  together.  Drop  batter  from 
a  large  spoon  on  to  hot  griddle.  Brown  on  both 
sides.      Serve  hot. 

Creamed  Peanuts  and  Rice — One  cup  rice  (un- 
cooked),   2    cups    chopped    peanuts,     Yl     teaspoon 

paprika,    2    teaspoons    salt.       White    Sauce Three 

tablespoons  flour,  3  tablespoons  fat,  3  cups  milk 
(whole   or  skim). 

Boil  rice.  Make  white  sauce  by  mixing  flour  in 
melted  fat  and  mixing  with  milk.  Stir  over  fire 
until  it  thickens.  Mix  rice,  peanuts  and  seasoning 
with  sauce,  place  in  greased  baking  dish  and  bake 
for  20   minutes. 


CLASS  1 6— VEGETABLES— RECIPES 


205 


Calcutta  Rice Two  cups  rice,   2   cups  tomatoes, 

J/2  pound  cheese,  1  tablespoon  salt.  Peppers  and 
celery  or  onions  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

Boil  rice.  Mix  it  with  tomatoes,  grated  cheese 
and  seasonings,  and  pour  into  baking  dish.  Bake 
half  an  hour.  If  peppers  or  celery  are  used,  cut 
up   and   boil  with   rice. 

Boiled  Macaroni  or  Spaghetti — Break  macaroni 
into  pieces.  Cook  J/2  cupful  macaroni  with  J/2 
teasp.  salt  in  rapidly  boiling  water  20  minutes. 
Drain,  save  the  water  to  add  to  soup  if  desired. 
Pour  cold  water  over  macaroni  in  colander.  Re- 
heat and  serve  plain  with  butter,  tomato  sauce  or 
cheese. 

Macaroni  Baked  with  Cheese — Arrange  a  layer 
of  boiled  macaroni  in  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
grated  cheese  over.  Repeat  until  Yl  CUP  or  cheese 
is  used.  Pour  over  all  1  cup  white  sauce.  Sprinkle 
top  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.      Bake  until  brown. 

The  white  sauce  may  be  omitted.  Add  instead 
J/^  cup  of  the  water  macaroni  was  boiled  in  and 
dot   each  layer   with  butter  as  well  as   cheese. 


Maltese  Macaroni  —  To  2  cups  of  parboiled 
drained  macaroni,  add  I  cup  meat  stock.  Cook 
slowly,  covered,  until  stock  is  absorbed.  Add  I 
teasp.  butter,  2  tbsp.  grated  cheese,  few  grains 
pepper,  J/j  teasp.  onion  juice  and  French  mustard. 
Mix  well.  Cover  top  with  crumbs.  Bake  until 
brown. 

Italian  Sauces  for  Macaroni  and  Spaghetti — (  I  ) 

Fry  4  slices  chopped  bacon,  add  thin  slice  onion, 
2  cups  fresh  stewed  tomatoes,  J/^  teasp.  salt,  few 
grains  cayenne  and  black  pepper,  J/4  teasp.  allspice, 
J/2  small  bay  leaf.  Simmer  4  minutes.  Pour  over 
hot  boiled  spaghetti  or  macaroni. 

2.  Mix  2  cups  canned  tomatoes,  1  chopped 
onion,  1  sweet  pepper,  minced,  salt,  J/2  teasp.  but- 
ter. Simmer  30  minutes.  Beat  into  hot  boiled 
spaghetti  1  cup  grated  cheese,  then  pour  over  it 
the  tomato  sauce. 

3.  Peanut  Butter  Sauce — Heat  2  cups  milk,  add 
gradually  J/^  cup  peanut  butter,  J/2  teasp.  salt. 
Stir  until  blended.  Pour  over  the  spaghetti.  Bake 
slowly  30  minutes,  top  with  bread  crumbs  and 
brown. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


206        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^illlllllllMlllllllllillllJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllMlllllimillllllllingillllllllllL: 


Including  —  E 

1  CEREAL  FOODS        |  1 

iHINIIMIIIIIIIMIIIIIiTllllMMIINIIIllllllllllMMMIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiniMIIIIIIIUIIMIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIlTilllllllllllllllllllllllir. 

Care  of  Bread — Bread  boxes  should  be  thoroughly  washed  and  scalded  and 
dried  over  the  fire  before  each  new  baking.  When  dry  do  not  leave  box  open. 
Keep  dry  old  rolls  or  bread  in  an  earthen  crock;  they  should  be  ground  and  used 
for  crumbing,  etc. 

To  Keep  Bread  Fresh — After  baking  bread  let  it  cool,  then  put  in  paper  bags 
and  into  bread  jars. 

To  keep  bread  and  butter  fresh  when  cut,  place  in  a  cool  place  and  cover 
closely  with  a  clean  cloth  that  has  been  wrung  out  of  cold  water. 

To  make  old  bread  new,  dampen  it  all  over  with  milk,  put  in  a  hot  oven  about 
20  minutes.     It  is  better  to  do  this  the  day  before  it  is  used. 

When  making  bread  boil  1  large  potato  until  done,  mash  thoroughly  and 
use  along  with  the  water  it  was  boiled  in.  It  makes  lighter,  finer  bread,  remains 
moist  longer  and  makes  one  more  loaf  to  each  3  qts.  of  flour. 

The  Importance  of  Good  Bread — (Farmers'  Bulletin  81  7,  on  "How  to  Select 
Foods") — Because  bread  is  often  really  "the  staff  of  life"  it  is  very  important  to 
have  it  good.  People's  ideas  may  differ  as  to  exactly  how  bread  should  taste  or  how 
it  should  be  made,  but  in  this  country,  all  are  agreed  that  yeast-raised  bread  should 
be  light  and  spongy,  with  a  crisp,  tender,  golden  brown  crust,  and  that  it  should  be 
nutty  and  sweet  in  flavor.  Heavy,  soggy  bread,  when  it  is  swallowed,  forms 
tough  lumps  which  the  digestive  organs  cannot  work  upon  properly,  and,  if  eaten 
day  after  day,  may  do  serious  harm.  Every  housekeeper  should  try,  therefore,  to 
provide  light,  well-baked  bread  for  her  family. 

Flour  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place  away  from  dust  and  also  away  from  foods 
which  have  strong  odors  as  flour  absorbs  flavors  easily. 

Yeast — (Farmers'  Bulletin  807,  on  "Bread") — If  yeast  plants  are  well  distributed 
throughout  a  mass  of  dough  many  bubbles  with  thin  walls  will  be  formed.  If  they  are  not 
well  distributed  there  are  likely  to  be  no  bubbles  in  some  places  and  large  bubbles  with  thick 
walls  in  others. 

The  kinds  of  yeast  most  commonly  used  are  compressed,  dry,  and  liquid  yeast. 

Compressed  yeast  is  very  convenient,  for  in  this  form  the  yeast  plants  are  active 
and  ready  to  begin  their  work.  However,  it  is  not  easy  to  keep  it  long  in  good  condition 
and  so  is  commonly  purchased  fresh  each  time  it  is  needed.  When  in  good  condition  it  is 
soft  and  yet  brittle  and  is  the  same  color  throughout,  a  creamy  white. 

Dry  yeast  can  be  kept  for  a  long  time.  It  is,  however,  less  active  than  compressed 
yeast,  and  for  this  reason  is  not  convenient  when  the  bread  making  must  be  hastened,  but 
only  in  the  long  process  or  "sponge"  method. 

Liquid  yeast,  like  compressed  yeast,  is  in  active  condition.  It  is  easily  made  at  home, 
and  in  a  cool  place  can  be  kept  for  about  two  weeks. 

207 


208       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Milk — (Farmers'  Bulletin  807,  on  "Bread") — Whole  or  skim  milk  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  part  or  all  of  the  water  used  in  making  bread.  It  should  be  scalded  thoroughly 
before  use.  When  the  long  or  overnight  process  is  followed,  it  is  well  not  to  use  milk  in  the 
sponge,  for  it  is  likely  to  turn  sour. 

Fat — (Farmers'  Bulletin  807,  on  "Bread") — Fat,  if  used,  may  be  butter,  lard,  beef 
fat,  cottonseed  oil,  or  any  other  of  the  ordinary  fats  used  in  cooking.  It  should,  however, 
be  wholesome,  of  good  quality,  and  in  good  condition.  Bread  is  so  little  improved  by  the 
addition  of  fat  that  it  is  a  mistake  to  run  the  slightest  risk  of  injuring  its  flavor  by  using  fat 
of  questionable  quality. 

Utensils — (Farmers'  Bulletin  807,  on  "Bread") — The  necessary  utensils  are  mixing 
bowl,  measuring  spoons,  measuring  cup  (of  standard  size,  holding  about  half  a  pint),  mix- 
ing spoon  or  knife,  and  baking  pans.  Utensils  desirable  under  some  circumstances,  particu- 
larly when  several  loaves  are  to  be  made,  are  bread  mixer  for  kneading,  molding  board, 
bread  raiser,  and  bread  rack. 

Shaping  the  Loaves — When  the  dough  has  risen  sufficiently,  cut  or  tear  it  into  the 
required  number  of  loaves.  Take  each  piece  of  dough  in  the  hands  and  work  it  lightly  in 
such  a  way  as  to  stretch  the  underside,  which  is  to  become  the  top  of  the  loaf.  In  forming 
the  loaf,  make  no  effort  to  fit  it  to  the  shape  of  the  pan,  for  in  rising  it  will  fill  out  the  cor- 
ners.    Strive  merely  to  form  it  into  an  oblong  piece  with  a  smooth  surface.      (Same  Bulletin.) 

Baking — (Farmers'  Bulletin  807,  on  "Bread") — Loaves  made  with  1  cupful  of 
liquid  each  should  be  baked  50  minutes.  They  should  begin  to  brown  in  about  15  minutes. 
After  that  time  the  temperature  of  the  oven  should  be  lowered  so  that  the  loaves  will  bake 
slowly.  The  temperature  should  be  400  or  425  F.  to  begin  with,  should  be  increased  to 
425  F.,  and  then  dropped  gradually  to  about  380  F.  The  surest  way  to  get  these  tem- 
peratures is  by  means  of  an  oven  thermometer  or  an  oven  gauge.  In  the  absence  of  these 
the  following  test  may  be  made:  Put  into  the  oven  a  small  piece  of  white  paper,  a  white 
cracker,  or  half  a  level  teaspoon  of  flour  spread  in  a  layer  Yt  or  Y&  inch  thick  on  a  tin  plate. 
If  it  becomes  a  light  golden  brown  in  5  minutes,  the  oven  is  about  right  in  temperature  to 
begin  the  baking. 

If  possible,  pans  should  be  so  placed  in  the  oven  that  the  air  will  circulate  around 
them.  If  they  touch  each  other  or  the  sides  of  the  oven,  the  loaves  will  rise  unevenly  and  be 
of  unsightly  shape.  If  the  oven  is  crowded,  it  may  be  necessary  to  change  the  position  of 
the  pans  occasionally  to  insure  well-shaped  loaves. 


BREAD  RECIPES 


Proportions  Used  (or  Almost  Every  Kind  of 
Simple  Yeast-Raised  Bread — (Farmers'  Bulletin, 
817,  on  "How  to  Select  Foods") — 1  cup  liquid 
(water,  milk,  skim  or  whole,  ■whey,  or  a  mixture 
of  two  or  more  of  them),  I  level  teasp.  salt,  1 
level  tbsp.  sugar,  3  cups  sifted  flour  (or  a  very 
little  more  or  less),  yeast  ( J/jj  to  ]/l  cake  com- 
pressed yeast,  depending  on  the  length  of  time 
the  dough  is  to  stand.  Liquid  and  dry  yeast  may 
be  used,  but  the  exact  amount  cannot  be  so  easily 
stated) ;  if  more  loaves  are  to  be  baked  at  one 
time,  multiply  the  quantities  given  above  by  the 
number  of  loaves  desired.  (The  above  proportions 
are  used  for  one  loaf.) 

Yeast-raised  bread  can  be  made  using  Graham, 
or  the  so-called  whole  wheat  flour  instead  of  the 
usual   bread  flour. 


Short  or  Straight-Dough  Process  —  (Farmers' 
Bulletin,  817,  on  "How  to  Select  Foods") — Boil  the 
water  or  scald  the  milk.  Put  the  sugar  and  salt 
(and  fat,  if  used)  into  a  mixing  bowl.  Pour  the 
hot  liquid  over  it  and  allow  it  to  become  lukewarm. 
Mix  the  yeast  with  a  little  of  the  lukewarm  liquid 
and  add  it  to  the  rest  of  the  liquid.  If  convenient, 
set  this  aside  in  a  warm  place,  not  over  86  F.,  for 
one  hour;  if  not  convenient  to  set  aside,  add  the 
Hour  at  once,  putting  in  a  little  at  a  time  and 
kneading  until  the  dough  is  of  such  consistency 
that  it  sticks  neither  to  the  bowl  nor  to  the  hands. 
This  requires  about  1 0  minutes.  Cover  and  allow 
to  rise  1%  hours  at  a  temperature  of  86  F. ;  it 
may  be  better  to  set  it  at  a  lower  temperature, 
but  the  lower  the  temperature  the  longer  the  time 
required  for  the  rising.      Cut  down  the  dough  from 


CLASS   1  7— BREAD— RECIPES 


209 


the  sides  of  the  bowl;  grease  the  hands  slightly. 
Knead  a  little  and  set  aside  to  rise  again  for  one 
hour.  With  a  good  bread  flour,  the  dough  would 
treble  its  bulk  in  each  rising.  With  a  soft  wheat 
flour,  it  should  not  rise  much  beyond  twice  its 
volume.  Divide  into  portions,  mold,  and  place  in 
greased  pans.  Allow  to  rise  until  a  light  touch 
will  make  a  slight  dent.     Bake  50  minutes. 

Short-Sponge  Method  (Same  Bulletin) — Bread 
can  be  made  during  the  day  by  what  is  known  as 
the  "short-sponge"  method.  All  the  ingredients 
are  the  same  as  for  the  "short  or  straight-dough" 
process,  but  only  half  of  the  flour  is  added  at  first. 
When  this  mixture,  which  is  called  a  "sponge,"  is 
so  light  that  it  will  fall  at  the  slightest  touch,  it 
is  ready  for  the  addition  of  the  rest  of  the  flour. 

Overnight  Sponge  Method — Use  the  same  pro- 
portions as  for  the  short  process,  except  in  the 
case  of  the  yeast,  which  should  be  Y&  cake  of 
compressed  yeast  or  2  tbsp.  of  liquid  yeast  for 
each  loaf.  Use  water  rather  than  milk.  In  the 
evening  mix  the  yeast  with  water,  salt,  and  half 
of  the  flour,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Cover  and  place 
at  a  temperature  of  65  to  70  F.,  or  that  of  an 
ordinary  room.  In  the  morning  add  the  sugar 
and  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  proceed  as  in  the 
case  of  the  short  process.      (Same  Bulletin.) 

Overnight  Straight-Dough  Method  (Same  Bul- 
letin)  Use  the  same  ingredients  as  for  the  over- 
night sponge  method,  but  put  in  all  ingredients 
at  night.  If  the  following  rules  are  observed,  the 
bread  is  almost  sure  to  be  of  good  quality  and  to 
keep  well: 

( 1 )  Keep  everything  clean,  protect  the  flour 
from  dust,  and  scald  all  liquid  ingredients  thor- 
oughly. 

(2)  Keep  the  dough  between  65  and  86  F.,  and 
do  not  allow  it  to  stand  longer  than  necessary. 

(3)  See  that  the  dough,  when  placed  in  the 
oven,  has  three  times  the  bulk  of  the  dough  when 
first  made.  Dough  made  with  1  cupful  of  liquid 
will  reach  the  top  of  a  I  Yl  qt.  baking  pan  when 
it  has  tripled  its  bulk. 

(4)  Bake  45  to  60  minutes  at  about  400  F. 

(5)  Keep  closely  covered  in  a  clean  receptacle 
that   is    frequently   scalded. 

Ash    Cake     (Corn    Bread) — (Farmers'    Bulletin, 

565,   on   "Corn-Meal") 1    qt.    corn-meal,    2    teasp. 

salt,    1   tbsp.  lard  or  other  shortening,  boiling  water. 

Scald  the  meal;  add  the  salt  and  shortening, 
and  when  the  mixture  is  cool  form  into  oblong 
cakes,  adding  more  water  if  necessary.  Wrap  the 
cakes  in  cabbage  leaves  or  place  one  cabbage  leaf 
under  the  cakes  and  one  over  them,  and  cover 
them   with  hot  ashes. 

South  Carolina  Yeast  Corn  Bread — (Farmers' 
Bulletin,     565,     on     "Corn-Meal" — I Yl     qts.     fine 


corn-meal,  2Yi  qts.  wheat  flour,  2  teasp.  salt,  I 
pint    mashed    sweet    potatoes,     I     cake    yeast.       Or: 

2  J/2  qts.  fine  corn-meal,  I  Yl  1ta-  wheat  flour,  2 
teasp.  salt,  I  pint  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  I  cake 
yeast. 

Mix  I  pint  each  of  the  corn-meal  and  the  flour 
and  add  warm  water  enough  to  form  a  stiff  batter. 
Add  the  yeast  cake,  mixed  with  a  small  amount  of 
water.  Keep  this  sponge  in  a  warm  place  until 
it  becomes  light.  Scald  the  meal  with  boiling  water 
and  as  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  add  it  to  the 
sponge  with  the  flour,  potatoes,  and  salt.  The 
dough  should  be  just  thick  enough  to  knead  with- 
out danger  of  its  sticking  to  the  board.  Experi- 
ence will  teach  how  much  water  to  use  to  secure 
this  end.  Knead  well  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise.  When  it  is  light  form  into  loaves,  put  into 
bread  pans,  and  let  it  rise  until  its  volume  is 
doubled.      Bake   in  a   moderate   oven. 

Apple  Corn  Bread  (Same  Bulletin) — 2  cups 
white  corn-meal,  2  tbsp.  sugar,  ^4  teasp.  salt,  1 
teasp.  soda,  1  teasp.  cream  of  tartar,  1  2/3  cups 
milk,  3  tart  apples,  pared  and  sliced. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  milk,  and  heat 
thoroughly.  Add  the  apples.  Pour  into  a  well- 
buttered  shallow  pan  and  bake  30  minutes  or 
longer  in  hot  oven  to  soften  the  apples. 

This  could  be  made  with  dried  apricots  cooked 
in  the  usual  manner  by  soaking  and  cooking 
slowly  and  adding  a  little  sugar.  The  juice  may 
be  used   as  sauce. 

This  serves    6   or   8   people. 

Sour  Milk  Corn  Bread  (Without  Wheat) — 
(Same  Bulletin) — 2  cups  corn-meal,  2  cups  sour 
milk,  2  tbsp.  butter,  2  tbsp.  white  or  brown  sugar, 
1  Yl  teasp.  salt,  2  eggs,  1  teasp.  soda,  I  tbsp.  cold 
water. 

There  are  two  ways  of  mixing  this  bread.  By 
the  first  the  meal,  milk,  salt,  butter,  and  sugar  are 
cooked  in  a  double  boiler  for  about  1 0  minutes. 
When  the  mixture  is  cool,  the  eggs  are  added, 
well  beaten,  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  the  water. 
By  the  other  method  all  the  dry  ingredients,  in- 
cluding the  soda,  are  mixed  together,  and  then  the 
sour  milk  and  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  butter 
are  added.  If  the  second  method  is  followed,  the 
cold  water  is  not  needed.  The  bread  should  be 
baked   in  a   shallow   iron   or    granite   pan    for   about 

3  0   minutes. 

Since  the  bread  made  by  the  first  method  is  of 
much  better  texture,  that  method  is  to  be  pre- 
ferred, except  in  cases  where  there  is  not  time  for 
the  necessary  heating  and  cooling  of  the   meal. 

Buttermilk  may  be  substituted  for  the  sour  milk, 
in  which  case  the  butter  should  be  increased 
slightly;  or  sour  cream  may  be  used  and  the  butter 
omitted. 

This   serves    6   people. 


2 1 0       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Corn-Meal  and  Hominy  Bread  (Without  Wheat) 
— (Same  Bulletin) — I  cup  cooked  hominy,  I  cup 
milk,  I  tbsp.  melted  butter,  I  cup  white  corn- 
meal,  2  eggs,    1  Yl   teasp.  salt. 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  bake  30  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

This  serves  6  people. 

Boston  Brown  Bread — (Same  Bulletin) — I  cup 
corn-meal,    I    cup    rye-meal,    I    cup    Graham    flour, 

2  yi  teasp.  soda,  I  teasp.  salt,  Ya  cup  molasses,  2 
cups  sour  milk  or    I  Ji    cups  sweet  milk. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  the 
molasses    and    milk.       Beat    thoroughly    and    steam 

3  Yl  hours  in  well-buttered  covered  molds.  Re- 
move the  covers  and  bake  the  bread  long  enough 
to  dry  the  top. 

This    may    be    made    also    with     I  Yl    cups    corn- 
meal  and  rye-meal  and  no  Graham  flour. 
This  serves  8  people. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  with  Fruit — (Farmers'  Bul- 
letin, 565,  on  "Corn-Meal") — Follow  the  recipe 
for  Boston  Brown  Bread,  adding  to  the  dry  ingre- 
dients a  cup  of  seeded  and  shredded  raisins  or 
prunes  or  a   cup   of  Zante   currants. 

This  serves  8  people. 

Nut  Bread — (Farmers'  Bulletin,  307,  on  "Bread") 
—  I  egg,  1  cup  milk,  Yl  CUP  sugar,  3  cups  flour, 
3  teasp.  baking  powder,  1  teasp.  salt,  1  cup  Eng- 
lish walnuts  or  pecan  or  hickory  nut  meats,  cut 
into   small  pieces. 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and 


sugar,  and  add  the  milk,  the  egg  well  beaten,  and 
the  nut  meats.  Place  in  a  well-buttered  pan  and 
let  rise  one  hour.  Bake  Ya  °f  an  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

Bran  Bread — Combine  2Yl  pints  flour,  either 
white,  whole  wheat  or  Graham,  and  I  cup  steril- 
ized bran.  Dissolve  1  /3  yeast  cake,  add  1  Ya  cups 
liquid  (milk  and  potato  water),  I  teasp.  salt  and  2 
tbsp.  molasses.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  knead  well; 
let  rise  until  light.  Shape  into  loaves,  let  rise 
again,  bake  45   minutes. 

Raisin  Bread — To  2  cups  liquid,  either  milk, 
potato  water  or  water,  add  Yl  cake  yeast  dissolved 
in  J'4  cup  warm  water,  then  add  2  tbsp.  sugar,  2 
teasp.  salt,  2  tbsp.  butter  and  I  lb.  raisins,  and 
gradually  add  to  2  qts.  sifted  flour;  knead  well; 
let  rise  to  double  its  size.  Knead  again,  lightly 
and  quickly,  let  rise  again,  then  shape,  put  in  oiled 
tins  and  when  light  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Chopped  nuts  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Virginia  Egg  Bread — Mix  I  pint  corn-meal,  2 
eggs,    1    tbsp.    lard,    (/>    teasp.    soda,    I    tbsp.    sugar, 

1  teasp.  salt  and  enough  buttermilk  to  make  a  thin 
batter.     Put  in  greased  pan,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Batter  Bread — Sift  2  cups  corn-meal  with  I 
teasp.  salt,  and  work  in   I   tbsp.  melted  butter.    Add 

2  eggs,  beaten  light,  to  I  qt.  milk,  and  stir  in  the 
corn-meal.  Bake  in  well-greased  pie  plates.  Cut 
in  squares,  split  open  and  butter.  They  should  be 
eaten   hot. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


STALE  BREAD 


(Farmers'  Bulletin,  817,  on  "How  to  Select  Foods") 
DISCUSSION 


It  is  generally  admitted  that  more  bread  goes 
to  waste  in  the  average  American  home  than  al- 
most any  other  kind  of  food.  This  happens  mainly 
because  many  housekeepers  do  not  know  what  to 
do  with  stale  bread.  Good  fresh  bread  has  a 
springy  quality  which  disappears  as  it  ages,  prob- 
ably because  the  water  in  it  gradually  passes  from 
the  center  of  the  loaf  out  through  the  crust,  leav- 
ing the  bread  drier  and  more  crumbly.  Many  per- 
sons think  bread  is  better  when  it  has  dried  out 
a  little,  say  for  24  hours,  but  almost  everyone 
agrees  that  really  stale  bread  is  too  dry  to  eat  with 
enjoyment.  Bread  that  has  been  cut  grows  stale 
more  quickly  than  the  uncut  loaf,  and  unless  the 
housekeeper  plans  very  carefully,  she  is  likely  to 
find  her  bread  box  full  of  hard,  dry  slices  and  ends 
of  loaves  which  are  of  no  use  on  the  table.  To 
avoid  this  waste  she  may  do  two  things:  (  I  )  Treat 
the  bread  so  it  shall  not  be  unappetizing  and  (2) 
use  the  stale  bread  in  cooking. 

Toasting  is  the  most  common  method  for  mak- 
ing stale  or  partly  stale  bread  attractive,  but  it  is 
by  no  means  the  only  one.  If  partly  stale  bread 
is  put  into  a  very  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes  it 
grows  softer,  probably  because  the  heat  tends  to 
drive  the  water  from  the  crust  back  into  the 
crumb.  Such  warmed-over  bread  is  not  as  soft 
and  springy  as  fresh,  but  some  persons  find  it 
very  appetizing.  A  good  plan,  therefore,  when 
bread  has  lost  its  freshness,  is  to  cut  off  what  will 
be  needed  at  a  meal  and  place  the  slices  in  a  hot 
oven  for  a  few  minutes  just  before  serving.  In 
this  way  bread  can  be  used  on  the  table  which 
would    ordinarily   be    considered   too   stale. 

"Twice-baked  Bread,"  which  is  cut  bread  placed 
in  the  warming  oven,  or  in  a  pan  on  the  back  of  the 
stove,  and  allowed  to  dry  out  very  slowly  until  it 
is  slightly  brown  and  very  crisp  throughout,   offers 


still  another  way  of  making  stale  bread  attractive. 
If  desired,  this  twice-baked  bread  may  be  crushed 
with  a  rolling  pin  and  used  like  the  ready-to-eat 
breakfast  cereals;  in  some  localities  this  dish  has 
long  been  known  under  the  name  of  rusks.  The 
little  fried  cubes  of  bread  called  "croutons,"  which 
are  served  with  soup,  may  be  made  with  odds  and 
ends  of  bread.  To  save  time,  bread  simply  broken 
into  small  pieces  may  be  fried  either  in  deep  fat 
or  in  a  pan  (sauteed)  and  used  for  the  same  pur- 
pose. Sometimes  bread  crumbs  are  fried  in  a  pan 
for  use  in  a  similar  way  as  a  seasoning  or  sauce 
for  meat.  French  cooks  frequently  put  pieces  of 
stale  bread  in  soups  just  long  enough  before  serv- 
ing for  them  to  soften;  the  well-known  one  called 
"crust  in  the  pot"  (croute  au  pot)  is  simply  a  thin 
soup  with  bread  in  it. 

There  are  many  ways  of  using  stale  bread  in 
cooking.  Almost  every  good  cook-book  gives 
directions  for  preparing  soft  and  dry  crumbs  for 
use  in  scalloped  dishes,  bread  puddings,  etc.  The 
soft  parts  of  the  bread  may  be  used  in  the  place 
of  flour  or  cornstarch  for  thickening  soups,  sauces, 
gravies,  stewed  tomatoes  (either  fresh  or  canned), 
etc.  Bakers  often  use  stale  bread  and  dried,  finely 
ground  cake  in  place  of  part  of  the  flour  in  making 
fancy  breads,  cakes,  and  cookies,  and  the  house- 
keeper can  often  avoid  waste  by  using  them  in 
this  way  in  griddle-cakes,  cakes,  cookies,  etc. 

Stale  crackers  serve  many  of  the  same  uses  as 
stale  bread.  If  they  have  lost  their  crispness,  they, 
too,  can  usually  be  freshened  by  warming  in  the 
oven,  and  the  fine  crumbs  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way  as  dried  bread  crumbs. 

The  texture  of  stale  cake  and  cookies  is  not  so 
easily  improved  by  heating,  but  they  may  be  dried, 
crushed,  and  used  like  bread  crumbs  wherever 
their   flavor  and  texture  allow. 


STALE    BREAD    RECIPES 
Showing  How  Bread  Crumbs  May  Be  Used  Instead  of  Flour  in  Various  Dishes 

Vegetable  Skim  Milk  Soup — (Nearly  all  the  materials  used  in  this  soup  are  those 
that  are  often  thrown  away — skim  milk,   the  outside  leaves  of  lettuce,  and  stale  bread. ) 

One  quart  skim  milk,  I  slice  stale  bread,  2  ozs.  of  the  outer  leaves  of  lettuce  (6 
large  leaves),  a  few  celery  tips,  or  a  thin  slice  onion,  salt  and  pepper. 

Chop  the  vegetables  finely.  A  convenient  way,  particularly  if  the  soup  is  being 
made  in  large  quantities,  is  to  use  a  food  grinder  and  to  put  the  bread  through  it  with  the 
vegetables  to  catch  the  juice.  Cook  the  finely  chopped  vegetables  and  the  bread  in  the 
milk  in  the  double  boiler  for  about  20  minutes.     Season. 


211 


2 1 2        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Bread  and  Cheese  Fondue  (Same  Bulletin)  —  1  1/3  cups  soft,  stale  crumbs,  6  ozs. 
cheese  (  1  Yl  cups  cheese  grated  fine  or  cut  into  small  pieces),  4  eggs,  1  cup  hot  water  or 
skim  milk,    Yl   teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  water,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  and  cheese;  add  the  yolks  thoroughly  beaten; 
into  this  mixture  cut  and  fold  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  and  cook  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  at  once. 

Brown  Bread  made  with  Stale  Bread — To  1 Yl  cupfuls  small  pieces  of  stale  bread  add 
1  pint  cold  water  and  soak  overnight.  Put  through  a  sieve,  add  %  of  a  cup  of  molasses, 
1  Yl  cupfuls  each  of  Graham  flour,  cornmeal  and  rye  meal,  1  Yl  teaspoons  salt,  3  teaspoons 
soda,  and   1  '/4  cup  cold  water.     Prepare  in  usual  way;  steam  2  hours. 

Crumb  Gingerbread — One  cupful  molasses,  Yl  cup  boiling  water,  1  1/3  cupfuls  fine 
bread  crumbs,  2/3  cup  flour,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  1  Yl  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  Yl  teaspoonful 
salt,   4  teaspoonfuls  melted  lard  or  other  fat. 

Add  water  to  molasses  and  combine  with  the  dry  ingredients  mixed  together,  then 
add  butter  and  heat.      Bake  for  about  25  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Croustades  of  Bread — Cut  stale  bread  into  4-inch  slices,  remove  centers,  leaving  cases. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  and  fill  the  centers  with  creamed  fish,  meat  or  vegetables. 

Crumb  Pancakes — One  cupful  crumbs,  2  J/4,  cupfuls  skim  milk,  Yl  cup  flour,  4  tea- 
spoonfuls baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  melted  fat, 
'   egg. 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk  for  24  of  an  hour.  Then  add  other  ingredients  and  cook  on  a 
hot  griddle  like  ordinary  pancakes.  If  sour  milk  is  used,  substitute  Yl  teaspoon  soda  for  the 
4   teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Crumb  Cake — Sift  2  cupfuls  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoon  mixed 
spices  into  a  basin,  rub  in  1  lb.  lard,  add  Yl  lb.  currants,  1  lb.  bread  crumbs  and  Yl  cup  sugar 
and  then  add  1  beaten  egg  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  nice  dough.  Place  in  buttered  tin 
and  bake  until  a  skewer  will  come  out  dry. 

Bread  Tartlettes  with  Breadcrumbs — Put  1  cup  milk  and  2  tablespoons  butter  into  a 
saucepan,  bring  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  '/4  lb.  white  breadcrumbs;  to  this  add  3  table- 
spoons sugar,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  3  tablespoons  currants  and  2  beaten  eggs.  Line 
gem  pans  with  pastry  and  put  a  spoonful  of  this  mixture  into  each  gem  pan,  and  bake. 

Indian  Pudding  Made  with  Crumbs — One  cupful  fine  crumbs  (corn  bread  or  wheat 

bread),    1    quart  skim  milk,    1/3   cupful  sugar,    J/4     cup    molasses,    2     tablespoonfuls    melted 

butter  or  other  fat,    J/4  teaspoonful  ginger,    J/4   teaspoonful  cloves,   J/4  teaspoonful  cinnamon. - 

Scald  the  crumbs  in  milk,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  bake   I  Yl   hours  in  a  slow 

oven. 

Toby  Pudding — Cut  stale  bread  into  small  pieces,  put  into  a  buttered  mold  and  pour 
over  it  a  jelly,  heated;  turn  out  of  mold  when  firm  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Royal  Pudding — Whip  1  cup  thick  cream  until  stiff,  then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
'/4  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract  and  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Butter  a  mold  and  dust  with  browned  bread  crumbs,  put  in  a  layer  of  white 
breadcrumbs,  then  a  layer  of  apricots  and  some  of  the  mixture;  repeat  this  until  mold  is  full. 
Bake  30  minutes.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Marmalade  Pudding — Mix  well  together  Yl  lb.  breadcrumbs  with  6  ozs.  chopped 
suet,  add  juice  of  1  lemon,  6  tablespoons  orange  marmalade,  Yl  CUP  milk,  2  well-beaten 
eggs  and  3  ozs.  of  candied  orange  peel.      Put  in  buttered  mold  and  steam  3  hours. 


CLASS  1  7— BREAD— TOAST  213 

Ham  Timbales — Put  1  cup  milk  and  1  cup  breadcrumbs  into  a  saucepan,  stir  over  the 
fire  until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed;  add  1  cup  chopped  cooked  ham,  3  tablespoons  butter,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste  and  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs;  put  into  buttered  molds  not  quite 
full,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  place  in  pan  that  is  half  filled  with  hot  water.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven,  until  firm.  When  ready  to  serve,  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  hard 
boiled   eggs. 

Omelet  with  Breadcrumbs — Put  1  cup  breadcrumbs  and  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a 
basin  and  pour  over  Yl  cup  hot  milk.  Add  salt,  pepper,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into 
well-buttered   omelet   pan   and   cook   until   set  and  browned. 

TOAST 

Milk  Toast — Toast  stale  bread  until  a  golden  brown,  spread  with  butter  while  hot 
and  dip  into  a  small  quantity  of  hot  milk,   seasoned  to  taste. 

French  Toast — Mix  together  1  egg,  Yl  CUP  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  a  few  min- 
utes. Cut  stale  bread  into  slices,  remove  crusts,  dip  into  mixture  until  soft;  place  on  a 
shallow  pan  with  plenty  of  butter  in  it;  when  butter  is  melted  and  very  hot,  fry  on  both 
sides;   sprinkle  with   powdered   sugar   and   serve  hot. 

Cinnamon  Toast — Cut  slightly  stale  bread  Yi  inch  thick,  remove  crusts  and  toast 
quickly  so  that  it  will  be  soft  in  the  center;  then  spread  with  plenty  of  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  a  mixture  of  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  and   1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  with  Marmalade — Cut  slightly  stale  Boston  brown  bread  (with 
raisins  if  desired)  into  Yl  inch  thick  slices,  toast  quickly  in  hot  oven;  spread  with  butter 
while  hot  and  pile  on  marmalade.     Serve  hot. 

This  is  a  simple  and  delicious  dish  to  serve  with  afternoon  tea. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


U.  S.  FOOD  ADMINISTRATION  BREAD  RECIPES 

Using  Barley,  Rye,  Rice  and  Potatoes 


Barley  Yeast  Bread  —  Introductory  statement: 
Bread  may  be  made  using  wheat  flour  and  barley 
flour  in  mixtures  containing  from  33  1-3  to  50  per 
cent,  barley  flour.  The  bread  containing  one- 
third  barley  flour  is  light,  palatable,  and  of  espe- 
cially pleasant  flavor.  A  larger  percentage  pro- 
duces a  heavier,  darker  bread  of  pronounced  barley 
flavor.  The  manipulation  for  this  bread  is  the 
same  as  for  'wheat  bread.  The  conditions  and 
time  for  baking  are  also  the  same.  The  loaf  is 
smaller. 

1  cup  milk  and  water,  or  water  (8  oz. ),  1  tbsp. 
sugar  (J/2  oz.),  1  tbsp.  fat  (J/2  oz.),  1  teasp.  salt 
(J4  °z-)i  I  '/6  cups  barley  flour  (4  oz.),  2  1/3 
cups  wheat  flour  (9  1/3  oz.),  Yl  cake  compressed 
yeast    (}/a   oz. ). 

Soften  the  yeast  in  part  of  the  liquid.  Com- 
bine ingredients.  Mix  into  a  dough.  Knead  and 
let  rise  to  double  original  bulk.  Knead  again.  Put 
in  the  pan,  and  when  again  double  in  bulk  bake 
about  45    minutes. 

Rye  Yeast  Bread — Introductory  statements:  Com- 
mercial rye  breads  are  made  of  a  mixture  of  wheat 
and  rye  flours,  known  in  the  trade  as  50-50.  Rye 
flour  has  much  less  expansion  than  wheat  flour; 
hence  the  loaves  are  smaller.  The  manipulation 
is  the   same   throughout  as   for  wheat  bread. 

1  cup  milk  and  water,  or  water  (8  oz. ),  1  tbsp. 
fat  (J/2  oz.),  2  tbsp.  sugar  (1  oz. ),  I  teasp.  salt 
(J4  oz.),  2J4  cups  rye  flour  (7  oz.),  2J4  cups 
wheat  flour  (9  oz. ),  J/2  cake  compressed  yeast 
(J4   oz.),  2  tbsp.  water   (I    oz.). 

Combine  the  ingredients.  Mix  into  dough  and 
knead.  Let  rise  until  double  original  bulk.  Knead 
again.  When  again  double  bulk,  bake  about  45 
minutes. 

Rice  Yeast  Bread — Rice  has  many  other  uses,  as 
in  puddings,  etc.,  and  is  much  in  demand  among 
the  allies.  Therefore  its  use  should  not  be  stressed 
in   connection  with  emergency  breads. 

Cooked  rice,  combined  with  wheat  flour,  makes 
delicious  muffins  and  yeast  bread.  There  are 
many  ways  of  cooking  the  rice.  The  basic  prin- 
ciples may  be  stated  as  follows:  First,  cook  the 
rice  so  as  to  conserve  all  mineral  matter  and  other 
soluble  products. 

Method:  After  the  rice  is  thoroughly  washed 
it  should  be  put  in  a  thick  iron  kettle  or  stoneware 
baking  dish,  cold  water  added  so  that  the  water 
stands  Ya  of  an  inch  to  an  inch  clear  above  the  rice. 
A  heavy  or  weighted  cover  should  be  used  to  seal 
the  dish.  Cook  slowly  over  direct  heat  or  in  the  oven 
until  all  the  water  has  been  absorbed  and  the  grains 
are   soft  and   steam  escapes   from  the  vessel.      This 


is  the  Japanese  method.  The  second  method,  more 
frequently  used  in  the  United  States,  is  to  use  a 
very  large  amount  of  boiling  water  to  a  small 
amount  of  rice,  the  rice  being  added  slowly 
enough  not  to  stop  the  boiling.  The  water  is 
boiled  briskly  20  minutes,  or  until  the  kernels  are 
tender.  Then  it  is  drained  in  a  colander  or 
strainer,  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  or  put  in  a 
slightly  warm  oven  or  in  a  pan  over  hot  water,  to 
dry  off  a  bit.  There  results  a  fluffy  mass  of  large, 
plump  grains,  each  perfectly  distinct  in  itself,  in- 
stead of  the  gummy  mush  so  often  served  as 
boiled  rice. 

The  rice  yeast  bread  is  very  white  in  color,  is 
moister  that  wheat  bread,  and  keeps  moist  longer. 
It  is  handled  in  much  the  same  manner  as  wheat 
bread.  The  first  dough,  however,  is  much  stiffer, 
and  after  once  rising  the  light  dough  is  so  soft  that 
it  cannot  be  kneaded  with  the  hands.  It  should  be 
well  stirred  with  a  strong  spoon  and  placed  in  the 
pans,  looking  much  like  a  stiff  drop  batter.  After 
baking,  the  upper  crust  is  less  smooth  than  that  of 
our  familiar  wheat  flour  loaf. 

Proportions  and  directions:  These  amounts  make 
two  or  three  small  loaves  of  bread. 

Rice  Yeast  Bread — Yl  CUP  milk  and  -water,  or 
water  (4  oz.),  4  tbsp.  sugar  (2  oz.),  4  tbsp.  fat 
(2  oz. ),  1  J/2  teasp.  salt  (%  oz. ),  7  cups  boiled 
rice,  8  cups  flour  (32  oz. ),  J/2  cake  compressed 
yeast   (Ya  oz. ),    Ya  cuP  warm  water   (2  oz. ). 

Scald  liquid  if  milk  is  used.  Pour  over  fat,  sugar, 
and  salt.  Cool  and  add  yeast,  moistened  in  Ya  cup 
warm  water.  Add  rice  and  flour  and  knead.  After 
second  rising,  bake  45  minutes. 

Potato  Yeast  Bread — Introductory  statements: 
Boiled  potatoes,  mashed  and  combined  with  wheat 
flour,  may  be  used  in  making  a  bread  of  good 
flavor  and  texture.  The  potato  bread  is  slightly 
darker  in  color  than  patent  flour  bread  and  is  also 
somewhat  more  moist.  It  is  relished  by  persons 
who  do  not  care  for  any  but  so-called  "white 
bread."  Two  manipulations  are  satisfactory. 
Either  all  the  flour  may  be  added  in  the  first  mix- 
ture, making  a  dough  which  is  very  stiff  and  diffi- 
cult to  knead,  or  a  part  of  the  flour  may  be  reserved 
and  added  with  the  second  kneading.  In  either 
case,  the  dough  is  soft  at  the  second  handling,  but 
after  baking  it  produces  a  satisfactory  loaf. 

The  following  amounts  make  3  loaves  of  bread: 

Potato  Yeast  Bread — J/2  cup  milk  and  water, 
or  water  (4  oz.),  4  tbsp.  sugar  (2  oz.),  4  tbsp. 
fat  (2  oz.),  I  J/2  teasp.  salt  (%  oz.),  4  cups  boiled 
potatoes,  8  cups  flour  (32  oz.),  Yi  cake  com- 
pressed yeast  (Ya  oz.),  Ya  cuP  warm  water  (2 
oz.). 


214 


CLASS  1  7— BREAD— COMBINATIONS 


215 


FOOD  ADMINISTRATION  OATMEAL  RECIPES 


Oatmeal  Muffins — (I)  Yz  cup  milk  (4  oz.),  I 
cup  cooked  oatmeal  or  rolled  oats,  1  egg  (2  oz.), 
2  tbsp.  fat  (I  oz.),  1  Yi  cups  flour  (6  oz.),  2 
tbsp.  sugar  (I  oz.),  Y2  teasp.  salt  (Y%  oz.),  4 
teasp.   baking  powder    (Yl    oz.). 

Cook  oatmeal,  using  one  part  oatmeal  to  two 
parts  water.  A  larger  proportion  of  water  makes 
too  soft  a  mush  and  gummy  muffins.  Mix  milk, 
oatmeal,  egg,  and  melted  fat.  Add  dry  ingredi- 
ents after  sifting  them  together.  Bake  25  to  30 
minutes.      This    makes    1 0    to    12    muffins. 


Oatmeal  Muffins (2.)    \Yz   cups  milk   (12  oz.), 

2  eggs  (4  oz.),  2  tbsp.  fat  (I  oz.),  2  tbsp.  sugar 
(I  oz.),  1  teasp.  salt  (Yz  oz.),  2  cups  rolled  oats 
(5J/2  oz).  1  cup  flour  (4  oz.),  4  teasp.  baking 
powder    (1    oz.). 

Pour  milk  over  oats  and  let  soak  Yz  hour.  Add 
eggs  and  melted  fat.  Add  to  dry  ingredients, 
which  have  been  sifted  together.  Bake  25  to  30 
minutes.      This   makes    10   to    12   muffins. 


FOOD  ADMINISTRATION  CORN  AND  OAT  MEAL  YEAST  BREAD  RECIPES 

Proportions  and  Directions: — All  proportions  are  for  one  loaf .  The  amount 
of  yeast  provides  for  a  very  short  process — 3Vi  to  4  hours.  One-half  the  yeast 
suggested  will  make  bread  in  5  hours. 

One  cake  of  dry  yeast  used  as  a  starter  should  produce  yeast  for  6  loaves. 
In  all  cases  the  amount  of  liquid  should  be  equal  to  that  added  with  the  compressed 
yeast  in  the  recipe  given. 


Corn-Meal  Yeast  Bread — (1  loaf);  \Ya  cups 
milk  and  water,  or  water  (10  oz. ),  2  tbsp.  sugar 
(1  oz.),  I  tbsp.  fat  {Yl  oz.),  2  teasp.  salt  (Yz 
oz.),  2/3  cup  corn-meal  (31/3  oz.),  2  1/3  cups 
flour  (9  1/3  oz.),  Yl  cake  compressed  yeast  (]/i 
oz.),    Y<\    CUP  warm  water    (2  oz.). 

Add  sugar,  fat,  and  salt  to  liquid  and  bring  to 
boiling  point.  Add  corn-meal  slowly,  stirring 
constantly  until  all  is  added.  Remove  from  fire, 
cool  mixture,  and  add  compressed  yeast  softened 
in  Y$  CUP  "warm  water.  Add  2  1  /3  cups  flour 
and  knead.  Let  rise  until  about  double  its  bulk, 
knead  again,  and  put  in  the  pan.  When  light, 
bake  in   a   moderate  oven   for  at  least  one  hour. 

In  mixing  the  dough,  the  flour  and  corn-meal 
are  to  be  used  as  separate  ingredients,  because 
the  corn-meal  must  be  scalded,  or  a  grainy  bread 
results.      When   the   corn-meal   mixture   is   removed 


from  the  stove,  the  housewife  will  doubt  her 
ability  to  add  the  amount  of  flour  called  for.  The 
flour  will  work  in,  as  required,  but  a  stiffer, 
stickier  dough  than  that  to  which  she  is  accus- 
tomed  will    result. 

Oatmeal  Yeast  Bread — (I  loaf);  1  cup  milk 
and  water,  or  water  (8  oz.),  I  teasp.  salt  (J4 
oz.),  1  tbsp.  fat  {Yl  oz.),  2  tbsp.  sugar  (I  oz.), 
I  cup  rolled  oats  (2%  oz.),  2Yl  cups  wheat 
flour  (10  oz.),  Yz  cake  compressed  yeast  (|4 
oz.),    Y*    cup  warm  water    (2   oz.). 

Scald  liquid  and  pour  it  over  the  rolled  oats, 
sugar,  salt,  and  fat.  Let  stand  until  lukewarm 
(about  half  an  hour).  Add  yeast,  softened  in 
warm  water.  Add  flour  and  knead.  Let  rise  un- 
til double  its  bulk.  Knead  again  and  place  in  pan. 
When  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  45  to 
60    minutes. 


FOOD  ADMINISTRATION  CORN-MEAL  RECIPES 


AH  measurements  are  level,  and  flour  is  meas- 
ured after  sifting.  Proportions  are  for  Minnesota 
flour. 

Corn-Meal  Griddle  Cakes  or  Waffles — I.     1    cup 

milk  (8  oz. ),  %  cup  flour  (3  oz. ),  %  cup  corn- 
meal  (3%  °z.),  2  teasp.  baking  powder  (  Ya  oz.), 
Yl    teasp.    salt    ( Y&    oz-)>    I    egg    (2   oz. ). 

Add  beaten  egg  to  milk  and  add  to  dry  mate- 
rials,  well  mixed. 

Corn-Meal  Griddle  Cakes  or  Waffles — 2.  1  cup 
sour  milk  (8  oz.),  %  cup  flour  (3  oz. ),  %  cup 
corn-meal  (3%  oz. ),  Yl  teasp.  soda  (1/14  oz.), 
I  teasp.  baking  powder  (Y&  oz. ),  Yl  teasp.  salt 
(Y»    oz.),    I    egg    (2    oz.). 


Corn-Meal  Muffins— 1.  1  CUp  milk  or  water  (8 
oz.),  1  1/3  cups  flour  (5  1/3  oz.),  2/3  cup  corn- 
meal  (3  1/3  oz.),  1  to  2  tbsp.  fat  (Yl  "I  oz.), 
I  to  2  tbsp.  sugar  (Y2-\  oz.),  I  egg  (2  oz.),  4 
teasp.  baking  powder  (Yz  oz.),  Yl  teasp.  salt  (Ya 
oz.). 

Method— 1.  Mix  milk,  egg  and  melted  fat,  and 
add   dry  ingredients;   mix  well   together. 

Method — 2.  Scald  corn-meal  with  the  hot  milk; 
add  egg,  melted  fat,  and  dry  ingredients. 

Corn-Meal  Muffins — 2.  I  cup  sour  milk  (8  oz  ) 
I  1/3  cups  flour  (5  1/3  oz.),  2/3  cups  corn-meal 
(3  1/3  oz.),  1  to  2  tbsp.  fat  (Yz-1  oz.)  1  to  2 
tbsp.   sugar    (Y2-\    oz.),    1    egg    (2    oz.),    Yl    teasp. 


2 1  6        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


soda    (1/14  oz.),    2  teasp,   baking  powder    ('/^    oz. ) 
Yl   teasp.   salt    ([/£    oz.). 

Combine  as  in  corn-meal   muffins    I,   method    I. 


Indian    Pudding — Y4     cup    cornmeal     (3'/^     oz.), 
1     qt.    milk     (32    oz.),     I  Yl    teasp.    salt     (%    oz.), 


3     tbsp,     sugar     ( 1  Yl     °z.),     or     1/3     cup     molasses 
(4J/2    oz.). 

Heat  the  milk.  Sift  in  the  corn-meal  as  in 
making  mush.  Add  salt  and  sugar.  Turn  into 
buttered  baking  dish,  put  dish  in  pan  of  water, 
and  bake  very  slowly  2  Yl  to  3  hours.  Serve  with 
hardsauce,    cream,    or   crushed   fruit. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


, 


CEREAL  FOODS 

(From  "How  to  Select  Foods,"    U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture) 

Where  economy  is  especially  needed  cereals  (the  lower-priced  ones,  of  course) 
should  be  used  as  freely  as  they  can  be  without  making  the  diet  one-sided.  In  this  they 
differ  from  such  higher-priced  foods  as  milk,  meat,  fruits,  and  vegetables,  which,  in  case 
of  need,  must  be  cut  down  so  far  as  they  safely  can  be.  To  encourage  the  use  of  cereals 
housekeepers  should — 

(a)  Provide  the  very  best  of  bread;  that  is,  bread  that  is  well  flavored, 
light,  of  good  texture,  and  well  baked. 

(b)  Take  particular  pains  in  cooking  and  salting  the  lower-priced  break- 
fast cereals.  The  same  rule  applies  to  such  foods  as  hominy,  boiled  rice,  or  macar- 
oni, commonly  served  with  meat  or  other  protein-rich  food  at  luncheon,  dinner,  or 
supper. 

(c)  Remember  that,  though  large  quantities  of  cereal  foods  may  not  seem 
attractive  if  served  alone,  they  may  be  very  appetizing  if  combined  with  small 
amounts  of  more  highly  flavored  or  seasoned  foods.  A  well-seasoned  soup  may 
lead  to  the  eating  of  a  large  quantity  of  bread.  A  little  savory  meat  or  fish  (salted 
or  smoked),  or  a  small  quantity  of  cheese,  may  be  used  to  flavor  a  fairly  large  dish 
of  rice  or  macaroni. 

This  bulletin  discusses  the  way  in  which  cereal  foods  may  be  wisely  used  in  the  diet. 

The  term  "cereal  foods"  may  mean:  (1)  The  kernels  of  corn,  oats,  rice,  rye, 
wheat,  etc.;  (2)  the  flours,  meals,  breakfast  foods,  starches,  etc.,  manufactured  from  them; 
or  (3)  bread,  crackers,  cakes,  pastry,  etc.,  in  which  they  form  an  important  part.  It  will 
be  easier  to  understand  their  use  in  the  diet  if  these  three  general  forms  are  borne  in  mind. 

Kind  of  Cereals — The  most  common  cereals  are  wheat,  rye,  corn,  oats,  and  rice. 
They  differ  somewhat  in  appearance,  taste,  and  food  value,  but  all  have  many  features  in 
common. 

The  most  abundant  food  material  in  cereals  is  starch,  which  serves  the  body  as  fuel. 
This  makes  up  nearly  three-quarters  of  most  grains.  The  next  most  abundant  material  is 
protein,  which  supplies  nitrogen  for  tissue  building.  This  makes  up  about  one-eighth  of 
the  grain.  There  is  also  a  little  fat,  particularly  in  corn  and  oats;  it  is  found  chiefly  in  the 
germ.  Another  important  material  is  the  "roughage"  or  cellulose,  which  is  most  abundant 
in  the  skin  of  the  grain  and  which  gives  bulk  to  the  diet.  The  kernels  also  contain  actually 
small,  but  relatively  high,  proportions  of  mineral  matters  needed  for  body  building  and 
other  purposes  and   other  substances  very  important  for  regulating  body  processes. 

The  protein  is  not  alike  in  all  kinds  of  cereals.  Part  of  that  in  wheat  is  a  tough, 
elastic  sort,  called  gluten.  It  is  because  of  this  gluten,  which  can  be  expanded  into  air  bub- 
bles, that  light,  porous  bread  can  be  made  from  wheat.  Rye  is  most  like  wheat  in  the 
character  of  its  gluten,  though  light,  porous  bread  can  not  be  made  from  it  alone.  Barley, 
buckwheat,  corn,  oats,  and  rice  are  so  lacking  in  gluten  that  they  cannot  be  raised  by  yeast. 

Prepared  Cereals — By  prepared  cereals  are  meant  such  manufactured  goods  as  flours 
and  meals,  cracked  wheat,  steamed  and  rolled  oats,  puffed  or  flaked  grains  of  all  kinds, 
macaroni  and  other  pastes,  cornstarch,  etc.  They  may  or  may  not  contain  all  of  the  orig- 
inal grain,  and  for  this  reason  they  differ  more  widely  than  the  grains  themselves  in  appear- 
ance, composition  and  flavor.  The  cooking  which  some  of  them  undergo  during  manufac- 
ture also  causes  changes.  Of  course,  unless  something  is,  added  to  them,  they  contain  no 
food  material  not  present  in  the  grains  from  which  they  are  made. 

217 


2  1 8        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Prepared  cereals  differ  so  much  in  form  that  their  appearance  gives  little  idea  of 
the  amount  of  nourishment  they  yield.  For  instance,  the  amount  of  flour  which  will  fill 
a  cup  weighs  4  ounces;  that  of  rice  8  or  9 ounces;  and  that  of  flaked  breakfast  cereal, 
hardly  half  an  ounce;  and  it  is  this  weight  rather  than  bulk  or  volume  which  indicates  food 
value.  Such  differences  in  weight  and  volume  must  be  remembered  by  those  who  wish  to 
buy  their  food  as  cheaply  as  possible.  Some  breakfast  foods  retail  at  48  cents  a  pound  (  1  5 
cents  for  a  5 -ounce  package)  ;  others  cost  5  or  6  cents  a  pound.  The  cheapest  ones  are 
usually  those  sold  in  bulk.  The  housekeeper,  by  grinding  her  own  wheat,  can  get  a  cereal 
breakfast  food  for  a  still  smaller  sum.  When  wheat  sells  for  $2  a  bushel  the  cost  per 
pound  is  between  3  and  4  cents.  This  wheat  can  be  prepared  by  washing,  drying,  and  then 
grinding  in  an  ordinary  coffee  mill. 

One  of  the  important  differences  between  these  preparations  depends  on  whether 
or  not  any  of  the  outer  coating  of  the  kernel  has  been  left  in.  This  coating  consists  mainly 
of  bulky  cellulose,  but  it  also  contains  a  large  part  of  the  important  tissue-forming  mineral 
compounds  and  body-regulating  substances  found  in  the  grain.  When  the  bran  is  left  in, 
the  preparation  is  more  bulky  and  contains  more  of  some  food  elements.  On  the  other 
hand,  it  does  not  always  keep  as  well  and  (in  the  case  of  flour)  does  not  make  as  light 
bread,  and  is  not  so  thoroughly  digested.  Evidently,  then,  the  choice  of  cereal  foods  should 
depend  on  the  purpose  they  are  to  serve.  If  bread  or  breakfast  cereals  are  used  as  the  chief 
part  of  a  meal  or  of  a  diet  which  does  not  include  much  of  vegetables,  fruits,  milk  and  eggs, 
and  which,  therefore,  may  be  lacking  in  bulk  and  mineral  salts,  it  is  well  to  choose  the 
bran-containing  preparations.  This  should  be  especially  remembered  in  considering  the  diet 
of  children,  for  they  need  more  body-building  mineral  compounds  and  body-regulating 
substances  than  adults.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  diet  in  general  is  varied  and  if  flour  is 
to  be  used  for  cakes,  pastry,  and  general  cooking,  white  flour  is  more  useful  than  coarser 
whole  wheat  or  Graham  flour. 

Dishes  Made  of  Cereals — These  include  porridge  and  cereal  mush,  breads,  cakes, 
puddings,  pies,  etc.  There  are  even  greater  differences  among  this  group  of  cereal  foods 
as  they  appear  on  the  table  than  among  those  from  which  they  are  prepared,  because  they 
are  made  in  so  many  different  ways  and  combined  with  so  many  different  things.  The  cook- 
ing has  made  them  pleasanter  to  eat.  It  is  commonly  believed  that  they  are  more  readily 
digested  cooked  than  raw. 

Ordinarily  more  or  less  water  or  some  other  liquid  is  added  in  cooking  cereals,  and 
the  water  that  they  thus  take  up  makes  them  much  bulkier  and  at  the  same  time  more  dilute. 
One  cupful  of  uncooked  oatmeal  or  rice,  for  instance,  cooked  with  three  cupfuls  of  water 
gives  over  four  cupfuls  when  boiled,  but  the  water,  which  chiefly  causes  the  difference, 
does  not  give  to  the  entire  four  cupfuls  any  more  body  fuel  or  building  material  than  was 
in  the  original  cupful.  Hence  we  must  not  judge  the  food  value  of  cooked  cereals  merely 
by  the  size  of  the  finished  dish,  but  must  remember  that  the  raw  food  material  has  been 
diluted,  so  that  a  cupful  cooked  may  have  only  a  quarter  the  food  value  of  a  cupful  of  the 
raw  grain.  The  body-building  protein,  which  makes  up  about  one-eighth  of  the  raw  grain, 
makes  up   only   about   one-fiftieth   of   the  weight  of  cooked  porridge. 

If  the  cereal  were  cooked  in  skim  milk,  which  itself  is  rich  in  protein,  this  valuable 
material  would  be  taken  up  by  the  cereal  and  the  cooked  dish  would  be  by  that  much  more 
nutritious  than  if  cooked  in  water.  A  cupful  of  rice  cooked  slowly  in  a  double  boiler  can 
be  made  to  take  up  six  cupfuls  of  skim  milk,  and  the  amount  of  tissue-building  material 
the  cooked  dish  contains  is  about  four  times  as  great  as  that  of  the  rice  alone. 

In  the  same  way  the  total  food  value  of  bread,  cakes,  etc.,  depends  on  all  the  ma- 
terials from  which  they  are  made.  If  bread  is  mixed  with  water,  its  food  value  is  about 
like  that  of  the  flour  which  goes  into  the  loaf,  for  little  besides  water  is  added,  and  almost 
nothing  is  taken  away  in  making  the  bread.      Measured  pound  for  pound,  the  bread  has  a 


CLASS  1  7— BREAD— CEREAL  FOODS  2  1 9 

lower  food  value  than  the  flour,  because  it  is  moister,  owing  to  the  water  added  in  mixing 
the  dough.  If  skim  milk  is  used  in  the  place  of  water  in  mixing  bread,  this  makes  the 
bread  richer  in  body-building  material.  If  a  little  sugar  and  fat  are  added,  these  make  it 
more  useful  as  body  fuel.  A  cake  made  with  two  eggs  provides  more  body-building  ma- 
terial than  one  made  with  one  egg,  and  if  nuts  and  raisins  are  added,  these  add  to  the  food 
value  as  well  as  to  the  flavor. 

How  Much  Cereal  Food  Should  be  Used? — Cereal  food  of  one  kind  or  another 
forms  a  large  part  of  almost  every  wholesomeand  economical  diet.  As  a  general  rule,  the 
greater  the  part  played  by  cereals  the  cheaper  the  diet.  Up  to  a  certain  point  one  may 
cut  down  the  quantity  of  meat,  etc.,  eggs,  butter,  sugar,  fruits,  and  vegetables  used  and  sub- 
stitute cereal  foods,  but  there  is  a  limit  beyond  which  this  can  not  be  safely  done. 

Breakfast  Cereals — Next  to  their  use  in  bread,  cakes,  etc.,  in  this  country,  the  most 
common  way  of  using  the  cereals  for  food  is  in  the  form  of  the  so-called  breakfast  foods. 
Sometimes,  as  in  the  case  of  rice,  cracked  wheat,  and  old-fashioned  or  "Scotch"  oatmeal, 
the  grains  are  simply  husked  and  perhaps  slightly  crushed  before  being  cooked.  Some- 
times meals  are  used,  as  in  corn  meal  mush.  Sometimes  the  gtains  are  ground  rather  finely 
and  the  outside  parts  sifted  out,  as  in  farina.  In  other  cases,  as  in  the  rolled-oat  prepara- 
tions, the  grain  is  cleaned,  partially  cooked  by  steam,  and  then  run  between  rollers,  which 
flatten  it  out.  In  still  other  preparations  the  partly  cooked  cereal  is  ground  into  fine,  granu- 
lar form,  or  pressed  into  thin  flakes  which  are  baked  crisp,  or  the  whole  grains  are  cooked 
under  pressure  so  that  they  puff  or  pop  up  somewhat  as  does  popped  corn,  which  may  be 
used  as  a  breakfast  cereal  as  well  as  in  other  ways.  Many  of  the  devices  used  in  preparing 
such  breakfast  foods  are  patented,  and  the  products  are  often  sold  under  proprietary  names 
which  may  or  may  not  suggest  how  the  grains  have  been  treated.  What  with  all  these 
methods  of  preparations,  the  list  of  varieties  on  the  market  is  a  long  one,  and  the  range 
of  cost  is  great,  especially  when  judged  by  the  amount  of  food  material  actually  supplied 
by  a  given  quantity.     All  are  wholesome  foods. 

As  has  been  shown,  one  can  not  judge  the  real  cheapness  or  dearness  of  different 
kinds  merely  by  the  price  paid  for  a  package  of  a  given  size.  Housekeepers  who  wish  to  be 
economical  should  note  the  net  weight,  which  the  law  now  requires  to  be  marked  on  every 
package,  and  from  this  and  the  price  reckon  how  much  it  costs  per  pound  of  material. 
They  will  find  that,  judged  in  this  way,  the  simple  flours  and  meals  and  the  uncooked  cereals 
(cracked  wheat,  coarse  hominy  or  samp,  unsteamed  oatmeal,  etc.)  are  usually  the  cheapest. 
When  a  preparation  (steam-cooked  oats,  for  example)  can  be  bought  either  in  package  or 
in  bulk,  the  cost  of  the  package  goods  is  usually,  and  quite  justly,  a  little  higher.  Each 
housekeeper  must  decide  for  herself  whether  the  greater  convenience  and  attractiveness  of 
the  package  goods  is  worth  the  difference  in  cost.  The  larger  her  family  is,  and  the  more 
good  storage  space  she  has,  the  greater  will  probably  be  the  advantage  of  buying  in  bulk. 
If  she  decides  to  do  this,  she  should  be  careful  to  get  cereals  which  have  been  kept  in 
clean,  closed  bins  or  bags  and  to  keep  them  as  carefully  after  they  reach  her  home. 

Plain,  uncooked  cereals  (cracked  wheat,  coarse  hominy  or  samp,  unsteamed  oatmeal, 
etc.)  usually  cost  less  than  the  partially  cooked  preparations  and  the  partially  cooked  ones 
less  than  the  ready-to-eat  kinds,  as  seems  reasonable  since  fuel  and  labor  are  used  in  the 
factory  where  they  are  made.  More  or  less  fuel  and  labor  are  also  needed  to  prepare 
cereals  in  the  home,  and  a  wise  housekeeper  reckons  with  these  in  deciding  which  kind  is 
most  truly  economical  in  her  own  case.  The  coarse,  uncooked  ones  need  longer  cooking 
than  the  partially  cooked  kinds,  while  the  ready-to-eat  kinds  need  no  cooking,  or  only 
enough  to  make  them  warm  and  crisp.  In  a  household  where  a  coal  fire  is  kept  in  the 
range  all  day  no  more  fuel  and  not  much  more  work  are  required  for  the  long,  slow  cooking 
of  cracked  wheat  or   "Scotch"   oatmeal  than  for  factory  cooked  brands;  or  where  a  fireless 


220       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

cooker  is  used  such  cereals  may  be  easily  and  cheaply  cooked.  Where  gas,  electricity,  or 
liquid  fuel  is  used,  and  it  is  a  matter  of  economy  to  plan  for  as  short  a  use  of  the  stove  as 
possible,  it  may  be  cheaper  to  use  steam  cooked  ones.  In  light  housekeeping  the  conven- 
ience of  the  ready-to-eat  preparations  often  more  than  compensates  for  their  high  cost.  The 
pleasant  variety  given  by  the  use  of  cereals  manufactured  in  the  more  elaborate  ways  may 
seem  to  the  housekeeper  to  be  worth  a  few  cents  extra.  It  is  worth  remembering,  however, 
that  bread  and  milk,  rusks  and  milk,  and  crackers  and  milk  all  have  much  the  same  food 
value  as  breakfast  foods  and  milk,  and  often  furnish  a  convenient  and  inexpensive  variety. 

There  are  several  practical  points  to  remember  in  cooking  cereals.  One  is  that  there 
is  more  danger  of  not  cooking  them  enough  than  of  cooking  them  too  much.  Uncooked  cereal 
preparations,  like  cracked  wheat  and  coarse  samp,  need  several  hours'  cooking,  and  are 
often  improved  by  being  left  on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  in  the  fireless  cooker  overnight. 
Cereals  partially  cooked  at  the  factory,  such  as  the  rolled  or  fine  granular  preparations, 
should  be  cooked  fully  as  long  as  the  directions  on  the  package  suggest. 

Flavoring  is  also  an  important  part  of  cooking  cereals.  The  flavor  most  commonly 
added  is  salt.  Such  added  flavor  is  perhaps  less  necessary  in  some  of  the  ready-to-eat 
kinds  which  have  been  browned  at  the  factory  and  have  thus  gained  the  pleasant  flavor 
which  also  appears  in  the  crust  of  bread  and  cake  or  in  toast,  but  in  the  plain  boiled  cereals 
or  mushes  the  careful  use  of  salt  in  cooking  them  may  make  all  the  difference  between  an 
appetizing  and  an  unpalatable  dish.  A  good  general  rule  is  1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  to 
each  quart  of  water  used   in  cooking  the  cereal. 

Milk,  cream,  butter,  sugar,  or  syrup  are  often  added  to  breakfast  cereals  when  they 
are  eaten  and  make  them  more  palatable  to  most  persons.  The  materials  also  add  to  the 
food  value  of  the  whole  dish. 

Cereal  Left-Overs — Remnants  of  cereal  breakfast  foods  may  often  be  utilized  to  make 
palatable  dishes,  to  thicken  soups  or  other  foods,  and  in  similar  ways.  For  instance,  small 
quantities  of  cooked  cereal  left  over  from  a  meal  can  be  molded  in  cups  and  reheated  for 
later  use  by  setting  the  cups  in  boiling  water.  Another  way  to  economize  cereal  mushes  is 
to  add  hot  water  to  any  mush  left  over  so  as  to  make  it  very  thin.  It  can  then  easily  be 
added  to  a  new  supply.  The  practice  of  frying  the  left-overs  of  boiled  hominy  or  of  corn 
meal  mush  is  as  old  as  the  settlement  of  this  country,  and  the  nursery  song  about  the  "bag 
pudding  the  queen  did  make"  from  King  Arthur's  barley  meal  shows  us  that  for  centuries 
other  cereal  puddings  have  been  treated  in  the  same  way.  In  so-called  oatmeal  oysters,  left- 
over cereal  is  dipped  in  eggs  and  crumbs  and  fried.  The  use  of  left-over  rice  and  other 
cereals  in  croquettes,  puddings,  and  so  on  is  too  well  known  to  need  more  than  mention. 

Cold  Cooked  Farina  or  similar  cereal  may  be  utilized  in  the  following  ways:  The 
second  recipe  is  less  economical  because  of  the  use  of  egg  and  more  milk. 

Farina  Pudding  No.  1 — One  cup  cold,  cooked  farina,    Yl  CUP  milk,    1/3  cup  sugar, 
Yl  cup  seeded  raisins,   J/g  teaspoon  cinnamon,  a  speck  of  ground  cloves. 
Bake  until  brown,    or  heat  on  top   of  the  stove. 

No.  2 — One  cup  cold,  cooked  farina,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk, 
1/3  cup  sugar,    Yl   CUP  seeded  raisins,    Ys   teaspoon   cinnamon,    a   speck    of   ground    cloves. 

Bake  in  a  medium  oven  until  brown,  or  heat  on  top  of  the  stove.  Dried  figs  or  dates 
or  stewed  fruit  may  be  substituted  for  the  raisins  in  either  of  these  puddings. 

Boiled  Rice  and  Pearl  Barley  are  often  used  in  soup,  and  there  is  no  reason  why  small 
quantities  of  coarse  samp  or  any  other  cereal  which  will  keep  its  shape  fairly  well,  should 
not  be  used  up  in  the  same  way.  Similarly,  remnants  of  macaroni  broken  into  small  pieces 
may  be  used  in  the  place  of  vermicelli  or  other  special  soup  pastes.      Such  practices  serve 


CLASS  1  7— BREAD— CEREAL  FOODS  221 

the  double  purpose  of  using  material  which  would  otherwise  be  wasted  and  of  giving  a  little 
variety  to  a  simple  diet  by  inexpensive  means. 

Home  Ground  Wheat  Cereal — In  many  places  good,  clean,  whole  wheat  can  be 
obtained  quite  as  easily  and  cheaply  as  the  common  cereal  preparations.  It  is  possible  to 
grind  this  in  a  mill  like  an  ordinary  coffee  grinder  so  that  it  is  as  fine  as  old-fashioned  cracked 
wheat,  or  even  to  a  meal  fine  enough  for  bread  making.  When  coarsely  ground,  such  home- 
ground  wheat  makes  an  excellent  breakfast  cereal.  Bread  can  be  made  entirely  of  the  home- 
ground  meal,  but  it  is  lighter  and  more  delicate  in  flavor  if  half  ordinary  flour  and  half  wheat 
meal  are  used.  Grinding  the  grain,  of  course,  takes  time,  and  such  home  products  are  not 
recommended  to  take  the  place  of  others  entirely.  Occasionally,  however,  and  especially 
when  bran  is  needed  in  the  diet  they  may  furnish  a  wholesome  variety  at  low  cost. 

If  other  cereals  cost  less  than  wheat  flour,  the  cost  of  bread  may  be  lessened  by  using 
some  of  them  in  place  of  part  of  the  flour.  It  has  been  found  that  good  yeast  bread  can 
be  made  'with  corn  meal,  rice,  oatmeal,  potatoes,  etc.,  in  place  of  at  least  one-third  of  the 
flour. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


222        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


MllllllllllllllIIIIIIIllllilltllllllimillllllllllimillllllEEEIEIllEiilllllllllEIIEIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllIIIEIIIIIIIllllllllllllllli: 


=  CLASS  18 


I  t  Rod's 

=  =  BUNS,  CRUMPETS " 

5lllllllllllllilll!llllllll nilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIimillllllll I IIIIIIIEiT 


Breakfast  Rolls — Take  I  pint  flour,  1  teasp. 
baking  powder,  1  tbsp.  sugar,  and  a  little  salt  and 
sift  together;  to  this  add  Yl  pint  milk  and  a 
piece  of  butter,  working  it  in  carefully  so  as  to 
make  a  smooth  dough;  roll  out  and  cut  with  a 
biscuit  cutter,  spread  a  little  butter  on  each  piece 
and  lap  together.      Bake  in  very  hot  oven. 

Vienna  Rolls — Sift  very  well  1  qt.  flour,  2  teasp. 
baking  powder,  and  Yl  teasp.  salt;  into  this  work 
in  1  tbsp.  butter,  then  add  1  pint  milk,  stir  into 
a  dough.  Roll  out  about  Yl  inch  thick,  cut  into 
circular  forms  and  fold  over  once.  Put  into  well- 
buttered  baking  pan,  moisten  the  tops  of  the  rolls 
with  a  little  milk  or  butter,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Sweet  Luncheon  Rolls — Take  I  cupful  scalded 
milk  and  when  lukewarm  add  1  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  J4  cupful  of  lukewarm  water;  then  add 
1  Yz  cuPs  flour,  beat  thoroughly,  cover  and  let 
rise  until  light.  To  this  add  J4  cup  sugar-  ' 
teasp.  salt,  yolk  of  1  egg,  a  little  grated  lemon 
rind,  Yl  teasp.  lemon  extract,  !4  cup  melted  but- 
ter, and  enough  flour  to  knead.  Put  on  a  floured 
board,  knead  well  and  return  to  bowl,  cover  and 
let  rise;  then  roll  out  in  a  long  strip,  about  '/4 
inch  thick,  brush  over  with  butter,  roll  up  like  a 
jelly  roll  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  a  pan, 
flat   side   down,    let   rise;   bake   in   hot   oven. 

Parker  House  Rolls  (Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  807, 
U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agri.,  on  "Bread") — Two  cups  milk, 
3  tbsp.  butter,  2  tbsp.  sugar,  I  teasp.  salt,  1  cake 
compressed   yeast,    flour. 

Put  the  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  mixing 
bowl.  Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  into  the  bowl. 
When  it  is  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast,  mixing  it 
with  a  little  of  the  liquid  first.  Add  3  cups  of 
flour,  beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  the  dough 
rise  until  it  doubles  its  bulk.  Cut  down  the 
dough  and  add  flour  gradually  until  the  mixture 
can  be  molded  without  sticking  either  to  the  hand 
or  to  the  bowl.  Let  it  rise  again  until  about  twice 
its  original  bulk  and  roll  it  on  a  floured  board  and 
cut  it  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Brush  the  pieces 
over  with  fat,  crease  each  piece  through  the  cen- 
ter with  a  knife,  and  fold  it  over.  Let  it  rise  again 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about   1  5  minutes. 

Rice  Rolls — Heat  1  cup  cooked  rise  and  1  cup 
milk,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  When  luke- 
warm, add    1    tbsp.  sugar,    I    teasp.  salt,   1    cup  flour. 


and  I  cake  yeast  softened  in  Yi  CUP  warm  water. 
Let  rise  in  warm  place,  until  double  its  size, 
then  add  I  well-beaten  egg  and  enough  flour  to 
knead.  When  smooth,  allow  to  rise  again,  then 
shape  into  balls.  Put  into  greased  pan,  brush 
tops  with  butter,  cover,  and  let  rise  once  more. 
Bake    15  to  20  minutes. 

Potato    Rolls     (Farmers'     Bulletin     No.     807,     on 

"Bread,"    U.    S.    Dept.    of    Agri.) Very    palatable 

rolls  can  be  made  from  a  similar  mixture  of  boiled 
potatoes  and  flour  by  adding  fat  and  sugar.  The 
following  proportions  will  yield  about  I  doz.  small 
rolls : 

8  oz.  boiled  and  peeled  potatoes,  6  oz.  or  1  Yl 
cups  sifted  flour,  Yl  cake  compressed  yeast,  Y+ 
level  teasp.  salt,  2  tbsp.  lukewarm  water,  milk, 
or  cream,   2  tbsp.  sugar,   2   tbsp.  butter. 

Boil,  peel,  and  mash  the  potatoes  as  directed 
for  bread  making.  Add  to  this  the  salt,  the 
yeast,  rubbed  smooth  and  mixed  with  the  water, 
or  other  liquid,  and,  lastly,  2  tbsp.  flour.  Set 
this  mixture  to  rise  at  about  86°  F.,  and  allow  it 
to  rise  till  a  touch  will  cause  it  to  fall.  Add  to 
this  sponge  the  butter,  the  sugar,  and  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour,  and,  if  necessary,  enough 
more  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Knead 
thoroughly  until  a  smooth  dough  has  been  formed 
which  is  no  longer  sticky.  Set  back  to  rise  again, 
and,  when  the  dough  has  trebled  in  volume,  knead 
lightly,  form  into  small  balls,  and  place,  not  too 
close  together,  in  greased  pans.  Let  rise  until 
double  in  volume  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  mod- 
erately hot  oven    (about  400°  F.). 

Cinnamon  Rolls — Put  a  baking  powder  mix- 
ture on  floured  board  and  roll  out  to  Ya  inch  in 
thickness.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter,  then 
sprinkle  with  a  mixture  of  2  tbsp.  sugar,  Yl  teasp. 
cinnamon,  1  /3  cup  raisons  cut  in  small  pieces,  and 
2  tbsp.  chopped  nut  meats.  Roll  like  a  jelly  roll 
and  cut  into  pieces  1  inch  in  thickness.  Put  on 
buttered  tin  cut  side  up  and  bake  in  hot  oven 
1  5    minutes. 

Christmas    Rolls Add     I     cake    yeast    dissolved 

in  warm  ■water  to  2  cupfuls  scalded  milk,  and  stir 
in  3  cups  flour.  Let  rise  till  spongy,  then  add 
Yl  cup  melted  butter,  Yl  CUP  sugar,  2  eggs,  1 
tbsp.     powdered     cardamon     seeds     and     flour     to 


223 


224       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


knead;  let  rise  till  double  its  size,  shape  into  8- 
inch  strips  and  fold  into  rings,  or  tie  into  knots; 
brush  over  with  beaten  egg  white  diluted  with  a 
little  water  and  sprinkle  with  a  mixture  of  sugar, 
chopped  nuts  and  shredded  candied  cherries. 
Bake   in   moderate  oven. 

Bread  Sticks — Ordinary  bread  dough  can  be 
used.  When  the  dough  is  light,  cut  pieces  from 
the  side  and  roll  under  the  hands  to  the  length 
of  your  pan  and  thickness  of  a  lead  pencil.  Let 
rise  until  light.  Bake  in  hot  oven  and  when 
nearly    done,    brush    white    of   an    egg   over    them. 

Oliver     Twists Roll     a     piece     of     light     bread 

dough  into  a  thin  sheet  about  Y*  inch  thick  and 
cut  into  narrow  strips  about  8  inches  long;  twist, 
put  on  greased  pan  and  let  stand  1 5  minutes. 
Fry  in  deep  hot  fat  until  they  puff  light  and  turn 
a  golden  brown.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  serve 
hot. 

Buns — Stir  to  a  thick  batter  1  cup  yeast,  1  cup 
sugar,  and  3  cups  milk  and  let  rise;  then  add  1 
cup   sugar,    1    teasp.    soda,    Yl    teasp.   nutmeg,    and 


1  cup  butter,  1  cup  currants.  Knead  until  thor- 
oughly mixed;  let  rise  until  double  its  size.  Shape, 
brush  with  melted  butter,  cover  and  rise  till 
light.       Bake    in    quick    oven    20    or    25    minutes. 

Crumpets — Put  1  teasp.  sugar,  Yl  teasp.  salt, 
and    3    tbsp.    melted   butter   in   a    mixing   bowl,    add 

2  cups  scalded  milk.  When  lukewarm,  add  Yz 
cake  yeast;  when  yeast  is  thoroughly  dissolved, 
add  3  cups  flour  slowly,  beating  constantly.  Let 
stand  in  a  warm  place  2  or  3  hours.  Bake  in 
greased  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  griddle.  Fill  pans 
half   full. 

Prune  Kringles — Into  I  lb.  dough,  knead  I 
tbsp.  each  of  butter  and  sugar.  Chop  6  or  8 
prunes,  mix  with  4  tbsp.  sugar.  Shape  the 
dough  into  sticks  about  the  size  of  little  finger, 
then  roll  in  the  prunes  and  bake  in  oblong  rings. 

Sugar  Kringles  are  made  in  the  same  way,  using 
instead  of  the  prunes  1  doz.  blanched  and  chopped 
almonds;  roll  the  sticks  smaller,  make  oblong 
rings  with  one  end  crossing  at  the  middle  to  the 
opposite   side. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


i>iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiuiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiii: 


CLASS  19 

§*-  Bi5cuit 


=  =  Including    CRULLERS,  SHORTCAKE  =  = 

|  |  MUFFINS,  PANCAKES,  WAFFLES  |  | 

^IIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIimillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimilllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllTllllllllulllllllllllllln 

In  making  biscuit  handle  the  dough  as  Kttle  as  possible;  do  all  the  mixing 
with  a  spoon. 

Biscuits  will  bake  much  quicker  if  put  on  top  of  the  stove  in  a  skillet.  This 
is  especially  convenient  in  the  summer  time,  as  it  makes  so  much  less  heat. 

With  the  increasing  use  of  buttermilk  by  doctor's  orders,  there  has  come 
back  in  some  measure  the  practice  of  using  it  in  cooking.  Cakes  and  biscuits  are 
delicious  prepared  with  buttermilk.  Use  one  and  one-half  more  buttermilk  than 
the  meal  or  flour,  mix  thoroughly  and  when  smooth  add  a  salt  spoon  of  soda  or 
more  if  a  larger  quantity  of  cakes  are  to  be  made.  Cakes  can  be  made  in  this  way 
with  white  flour,  buckwheat  or  rye  meal.  Always  use  enameled  ware  for  the  mix- 
ing, as  the  acid  of  the  buttermilk  easily  affects  metal. 


RECIPES 


One    Egg   Muffins Sift    together    1  Yz    cup    flour, 

I  tbsp.  sugar,  3  teasp.  baking  powder,  and  Yz 
teasp.  salt;  add  I  cup  milk,  1  beaten  egg,  and 
I  tbsp.  melted  butter,  beating  vigorously.  Half 
fill  well  greased  muffin  tins  and  bake  in  hot  oven 
20   or  25   minutes. 

Graham  Muffins — Sift  together  1  cup  Graham 
flour,  1  cup  white  flour,  J4  CUP  sugar,  3  teasp. 
baking  powder  and  I  teasp.  salt,  and  add  gradu- 
ally I  cup  milk,  1  well-beaten  egg,  and  I  tbsp. 
melted  butter.  Put  in  hot  buttered  gem  pans; 
bake   25    minutes. 

Raised  Muffins — Put  into  mixing  bowl  I  tbsp. 
sugar,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  2  tbsp.  butter,  and  scald 
with  2  cups  milk.  When  lukewarm,  add  I  cake 
yeast,  broken  in  bits,  stir  until  yeast  is  dissolved, 
and  make  a  sponge  with  3  cups  flour,  beating 
well.  When  light,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup 
flour,  and  let  rise  until  light.  Bake  in  greased 
gem  pans   20   or   25   minutes   in   quick  oven. 

One  Minute  Sour  Milk  Muffins — Mix  1  pint  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk  with  1  teasp.  soda,  I  teasp. 
butter,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Roll  and  cut  out  rapidly;  handle  as  little  as  pos- 
sible.    Bake  in  quick  oven. 

Corn    Muffins    with    Dates (Farmers'     Bulletin, 

565,  on  "Corn-Meal,"  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agri.)  —  I 
cup  white  corn-meal,  2  tbsp.  brown  sugar,  1 
teasp.  salt,  2  tbsp.  butter,  1  Ya  cuP  milk,  1  cup 
wheat  flour,  4  teasp.  baking  powder,  1  egg,  Yz 
cup  dates  cut  into  small  pieces. 

Cook  together  the  first  5  ingredients  for  10 
minutes   in   a   double  boiler.      When   cool,   add   the 


eggs,  the  dates,  and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  bak- 
ing powder.  Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in  muffin 
pans  in  a  quick  oven  or  bake  in  a  loaf.  The 
bread  will  keep  in  good  condition  longer  if  the 
dates  are  cooked  with  the  corn-meal  and  other 
ingredients  in  the  double  boiler. 
This  serves   6  people. 

Rice  Muffins — Mix  thoroughly  1  cup  boiled 
rice,  Yz  tbsp.  sugar,  and  I  tbsp.  melted  butter. 
Use  I  cup  scalded  milk  and  when  lukewarm  dis- 
solve Yz  cake  yeast  in  it  and  add  to  rice  mixture. 
Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Let 
rise  until  light  and  then  add  2  well-beaten  eggs. 
Half  fill  well-buttered  muffin  pans,  raise  until 
very   light.      Bake    1 0   minutes   in  hot  oven. 

English  Penny  Muffins — Dissolve  I  cake  yeast 
in  1  cup  warm  water  mixed  with  I  cup  milk, 
then  add  %  teasp.  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a  thin  batter.  When  light,  add  Yz  CUP  sugar,  I 
egg,  2  tbsp.  melted  butter  and  beat  vigorously. 
Stir  in  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  When  light, 
knead  it,  let  rise  again,  then  form  into  round  bis- 
cuits, put  in  well-greased  gem  pans  and  when 
very  light  bake  1 2  minutes  in  hot  oven.  This 
recipe  makes  30  muffins. 

Molasses  Muffins — Mix  and  sift  well  together 
1  Yz  CUP  corn-meal,  Yz  °up  flour,  I  teasp.  soda, 
Yz  teasp.  salt,  then  add  1  cup  sour  milk  and  Y* 
cup  molasses  and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour  into 
well-greased  muffin  pans  and  steam  2  hours. 

Apple  Muffins — Add  I  cup  milk  and  J/4  cup 
water  to  1  well-beaten  egg  yolk,  then  add  2 
tbsp.  melted  lard.  Sift  together  2  tbsp.  sugar, 
1     teasp.    salt,    2    cups    flour    and    3    teasp.    baking 


225 


226        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


powder  and  add  to  the  liquid  and  mix  in  I  cup 
finely  chopped  apple.  Beat  thoroughly,  then 
fold  in  white  of  egg,  well  beaten.  Put  in  greased 
muffin  tins  and  bake  30  minutes  in  moderate 
oven. 

Sweet  Corn  Muffins — Mix  together  and  rub 
through  a  sieve  1  heaping  cupful  corn-meal,  I  Yl 
cups  flour,  2  teasp.  cream  of  tartar,  and  Yl  teasp. 
salt.  Beat  2  tbsp.  butter  and  4  tbsp.  sugar  to- 
gether until  creamy,  then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 
and  beat  well.  Dissolve  I  teasp.  soda  in  2  cups 
milk,  then  mix  with  egg  mixture  thoroughly  and 
add  the  sifted  ingredients.  Beat  well  together  and 
stir  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put 
into  buttered  muffin  tins  and  bake  Yl  hour  in 
quick   oven. 

Drop    Biscuits     (Farmers'    Bulletin    No.     817,    on 

"How    to    Select    Foods,"    U.    S.    Dept.    of   Agri.) 

2  cups  white  or  whole-meal  flour,  1  Yl  teasp.  salt, 
2  tbsp.  lard  or  other  fat,  I  Yl  cups  sour  milk,  Y4 
level   teasp.    soda. 

Sift  the  flour  with  the  salt.  Rub  the  lard  or 
other  fat  into  the  flour  by  means  of  a  fork  or 
the  fingers.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  of  the 
milk  and  add  it,  with  the  remainder  of  the  milk, 
to  the  flour  until  a  mixture  is  obtained  that  can 
be  dropped  from  the  end  of  a  spoon.  Bake  on 
greased    tins   in   a   hot   oven   until  brown. 

Bran  Biscuits — Sift  together  1  Yl  cups  whole- 
wheat flour,  3  teasp.  baking  powder  and  Yl  teasp. 
salt;  stir  thoroughly  into  this  1  Yl  cups  bran  and 
rub  3  tbsp.  butter  in,  and  enough  milk  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Roll  out,  handling  as  little  as  pos- 
sible. Cut  into  biscuits  and  put  in  well-greased 
baking  tins.  Spread  a  little  butter  *6n  top  each 
biscuit  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Cinnamon  Tea  Biscuits — Sift  together  about  2 
cups  flour,  Yl  CUP  sugar,  Yl  teasp.  ground  cinna- 
mon, and  a  pinch  of  salt;  rub  in  Yl  CUP  butter; 
then  add  2  eggs  and  mix  into  a  stiff  paste.  Roll 
out  thin   and    cut  into   rounds.      Bake    1 5   minutes. 

Beaten  Biscuit — Mix  and  sift  3  pints  pastry 
flour  with  1  teasp.  salt  and  rub  and  cut  1  cup 
lard  into  it.  Make  a  stiff  dough  with  milk,  or 
milk  and  water;  knead  and  beat  with  rolling  pin 
or  mallet  for  1  hour.  The  dough  should  be 
smooth  and  glossy.  Shape  into  thin  flat  cakes, 
prick  all  over  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  to  a  delicate  brown,  until  the  edges  crack 
a  little.  They  will  be  heavy  in  the  middle  if  not 
given   enough  time   to  bake. 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit — Sift  1  qt.  flour  with  I  tbsp. 
salt  and  I  teasp.  soda;  rub  in  I  tbsp.  butter  and 
add  about  1  pint  sour  milk  or  enough  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Shape  biscuits  quickly,  put  into 
floured  baking  pan  and  bake  about  20  minutes 
in  very  hot  oven. 

Parched    Corn-Meal    Biscuits     (Without    Wheat) 


(Farmers'   Bulletin,    565,    on   "Corn-Meal,"    U.   S. 

Dept.     of     Agri.) Yl     CUP     yellow     corn-meal,      1 

teasp.   salt,    1    cup  peanut  butter,    1  Yl    cups  water. 

Put  the  meal  into  a  shallow  pan,  heat  in  the 
oven  until  it  is  a  delicate  brown,  stirring  fre- 
quently. Mix  the  peanut  butter,  water,  and  salt, 
and  heat.  While  this  mixture  is  hot,  stir  in  the 
meal,  which  also  should  be  hot.  Beat  thoroughly. 
The  dough  should  be  of  such  consistency  that  it 
can  be  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Bake  in  small 
cakes  in  an  ungreased  pan.  This  makes  1 6  bis- 
cuits, each  of  which  contains    1  /6  oz.  of  protein. 

Parched  Corn-Meal  Biscuits,  Frosted — (Farm- 
ers'   Bulletin,     565,    on    "Corn-Meal,"    U.    S.    Dept. 

of   Agri.) Cover  the    biscuits    prepared   according 

to  the  above  recipe  with  a  frosting  made  as  fol- 
lows. Over  the  top  spread  chopped  peanuts  or 
peanut  butter: 

1  /3  cup  boiling  water,  24  CUP  granulated  sugar, 
I    egg  white,    Yl    teasp.   vanilla. 

Boil  together  the  sugar  and  water  until  the 
syrup  forms  a  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon. 
Pour  slowly  into  the  well-beaten  egg  white  and 
beat  until  it  will  hold  its  form.      Add   flavoring. 

Popovers — Mix  1  cup  flour  with  Y*  teasp.  salt 
and  sift  well;  add  1  light  beaten  egg  and  beat  to- 
gether 5  minutes.  Have  gem  pans  we'll  greased 
and  very  hot  and  fill  half  full  with  mixture.  Bake 
30   or   35    minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Corn  Popovers — Take  1  Ya  cups  sifted  corn- 
meal  and  scald  with  2  cups  milk;  then  add  I  tbsp. 
melted  butter  and  '/i  teasp.  salt;  beat  thoroughly. 
When  cold  add  3  well-beaten  eggs  and  pour  into 
hot  iron  gem  pans.  Bake  30  or  35  minutes  in 
hot  oven. 

Corn-Meal  Puffs  (Without  Wheat) — (Farmers' 
Bulletin,  565,  on  "Corn-Meal,"  U.  S.  Dept.  of 
Agri.)  —  I  pint  milk,  1/3  cup  corn-meal,  4  tbsp. 
sugar,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  4  eggs,  grated  nutmeg  (if 
desired). 

Cook  the  milk  and  meal  together  1 5  minutes 
with  the  salt  and  sugar.  When  cool,  add  the  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Bake  in  cups.  Serve  with  stewed 
fruit   or   jam. 

This    serves    6    people. 

Wafers — Mix  and  sift  2  cups  whole-wheat  flour 
and  Yl  teasp.  salt  and  rub  in  2  tbsp.  butter;  add 
enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Take  pieces 
of  dough  double  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  roll 
them  the  size  of  a  breakfast  plate.  Bake  in  quick 
oven   till  lightly   browned. 

Griddle  Cakes 1    teasp.  butter  added  to   griddle 

or  batter  cakes  will  keep  them  from  sticking  to 
the  griddle;  it  is  much  better  than  putting  it  on 
the  griddle,  where  it  burns  and  fills  the  house 
with  smoke.  Turn  the  griddle  often  to  keep  heat 
even.  Let  each  cake  bake  until  full  of  holes  and 
dry   at   the    rim;    turn    only   once. 


CLASS  1 9— BISCUITS— CAKES  AND  CRULLERS 


227 


Mix  and  sift  2  cups  flour  with  3  teasp.  baking 
powder  and  Ya  teasp.  salt;  add  1  Yl  cups  milk  and 
2  beaten  eggs;  beat  well;  then  add  Ya  cup  melted 
butter;  beat  again.  Put  on  hot  griddle  by  spoon- 
fuls  and   bake.      Serve  with  syrup. 

Crumb  Griddle  Cakes — Soak  overnight  I  cup 
dry  crumbs  in  1  pint  sweet  or  sour  milk;  then 
mash  well,  add  Yl  teasp.  salt,  Yl  teasp.  sugar,  and, 
if  sour  milk  was  used,  add  I  teasp.  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water.  If  sweet  milk  was  used,  add 
I  teasp.  baking  powder.  Add  enough  flour  to 
make  batter  to  pour.      Bake  as  for  griddle  cakes. 

Buckwheat  Cakes — Mix  Yl  cup  corn-meal  with 
Yl  teasp.  salt  and  scald  with  2  cups  boiling  water. 
Beat  well,  and  when  cool,  add  Yl  cup  flour  and  1 
cup  buckwheat;  then  add  Yl  cake  yeast,  dissolved. 
Let  stand  overnight  and  in  the  morning  pour  off 
discolored  water  that  lies  on  top  of  batter  and 
dilute  with  Yl  cup  milk  in  which  Ya  teasp.  soda 
is  dissolved.  Bake  in  small  cakes  on  lightly  but- 
tered   griddle. 

1    tbsp.    molasses  may  be   added   to   this   mixture. 

If  1  cup  batter  is  left,  keep  it  for  next  day  and 
use  as  yeast. 

Dodgers — Scald  I  cup  corn-meal  with  1  cup 
boiling  ■water,  beat  until  smooth  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  1  Yl  hours.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
buttered  griddle  and  put  small  piece  of  butter  on 
each   before   turning. 

French  Pancakes — Mix  and  sift  together  2  cups 
flour,  1  tbsp.  sugar  and  Ya  teasp.  salt;  add  slowly 
I  cup  milk  and  3  beaten  eggs.  Beat  together  5 
minutes  and  fry  in  hot  butter,  then  roll  up  and 
fill  with  fruit  or  jelly  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar.      Serve  hot. 

Potato     Pancakes Mix     2     cups     grated     potato 

with  Yl  teasp.  salt,  I  tbsp.  flour,  a  little  pepper 
and  2  well-beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  thin  cakes  until 
brown.  Serve  with  apple  sauce,  together  with 
meat. 

Pancakes  with  Rice  —  Mix  together  2  cups 
boiled  rice,  2  tbsp.  melted  butter,  Yl  cup  milk, 
Yl  cup  flour,  and  2  eggs;  beat  thoroughly.  Bake 
like   griddle   cakes. 

One  Egg  Waffles Mix  together    1  Yl    cups  flour, 

I  Yl  teasp.  baking  powder  and  Ya  teasp.  salt;  add 
slowly  I  %  cups  milk,  I  egg,  beaten  very  light, 
and  2  tbsp.  melted  butter.  Beat  batter  2  minutes 
and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  well-greased,  hot  waffle 
iron.      Serve  with   maple   syrup. 

French  Waffles — Cream  I  cup  butter,  add  1 
cup  sugar,  yolks  of  7  eggs  and  grated  rind  of  Yl 
lemon;  then  add  alternately  3  cups  flour  and  2 
cups  milk,  beating  until  full  of  bubbles.  Add  1 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  stiff  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Let  rise  3  hours  and  bake  like  plain 
waffles. 


Buttermilk     Waffles (Farmers'      Bulletin,      565, 

on  "Corn-Meal,"  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agri.) — 3  cups 
water,  2  cups  corn-meal,  2  cups  wheat  flour,  1 
cup  sweet  milk,  4  eggs,  2  tbsp.  butter,  2  teasp. 
salt,  1  Yl  teasp.  soda,  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 
enough   to    make   a    thin   batter. 

Cook  the  meal,  ■water,  salt,  and  butter  together 
in  a  double  boiler  for  1 0  minutes.  When  the 
mush  is  cool  add  the  eggs,  beaten  separately  un- 
til very  light.  Sift  the  flour  and  soda  together. 
Add  the  flour  and  the  sweet  milk  alternately  to 
the  corn  mixture.  Finally  add  the  buttermilk. 
This  mixture  is  improved  by  standing  a  short 
time. 

This   serves    1 0   people. 

Doughnuts — Mix  together  I  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
sour  cream,  I  teasp.  soda,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  '/4  teasp. 
grated  nutmeg,  I  egg  and  enough  flour  to  make 
stiff  dough  to  roll.  Put  1  /3  of  mixture  on  floured 
board,  knead  slightly;  roll  out  to  Ya  inch  thick- 
ness and  cut  with  doughnut  cutter.  Fry  in  deep 
fat;  take  up  with  a  skewer  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.  Add  trimmings  to  remaining  dough  and 
treat  the  same  way.      Roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Dropped  Doughnuts — Make  batter  of  Yl  CUP 
milk,  Yl  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  of  I  lemon,  1  Yl 
cups  flour,  !  beaten  egg,  1/3  teasp.  salt,  1/3  teasp. 
nutmeg,  and  1  heaping  teasp.  baking  powder. 
Hold  teasp.  of  batter  close  to  deep  pan  of  hot 
fat  and  the  doughnuts  will  come  up  in  round 
balls. 

Indian      Meal      Doughnuts (Farmers'      Bulletin, 

565,    on    "Corn-Meal,"    U.    S.    Dept.    of    Agri.) In 

making  doughnuts  there  is  a  decided  advantage 
in  substituting  corn-meal  for  part  of  the  flour,  for 
doughnuts  so  made  are  much  more  likely  to  be 
tender   than   those   made  with  wheat   flour  alone. 

Yn  cup  milk,  1  Ya  cups  wheat  flour,  Ya  CUP  but- 
ter, Ya  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teasp. 
cinnamon,  2  teasp.  baking  powder,  I  level  teasp. 
salt. 

Put  milk  and  meal  into  a  double  boiler  and 
heat  together  for  about  1 0  minutes.  Add  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  the  meal.  Sift  together  the 
wheat  flour,  baking  powder,  cinnamon,  and  salt. 
Add  these  and  the  eggs  to  the  meal.  Roll  out  on 
a  well-floured  board;  cut  into  the  desired  shapes; 
fry  in  deep   fat;  drain  and   roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

This   makes    30    medium-sized   doughnuts. 

Crullers — Put  into  mixing  bowl  I  cup  sugar,  I 
small  tbsp.  butter,  Ya  teasp.  salt  and  Y&  teasp. 
nutmeg  and  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  until 
creamy;  then  add  gradually  2  well-beaten  eggs. 
Sift  T>Yl  cups  flour  and  2  teasp.  baking  powder 
together  and  add  to  mixture  while  beating  con- 
stantly, alternate  with  I  cup  milk.  Roll  out  on 
floured    board    and    cut    with    cruller    cutter.       Fry 


228        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


in  deep  hot  fat,  drain  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar. 

Chocolate  Crullers — Beat  2  eggs  until  creamy 
and  thick;  add  I  cup  sugar,  I  tbsp.  melted  butter, 
1  teasp.  salt,  I  teasp.  cinnamon  and  I  tbsp.  melted 
unsweetened  chocolate;  mix  well  together,  then 
add  I  cup  milk  and  3  cups  flour  sifted  with  2 
teasp.  baking  powder.  Roll  out  V4  inch  thick  on 
a  floured  board,  cut,  and  drop  into  very  hot  fat. 
Cook  a  golden  brown,  drain  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar. 

Shortcake — Mix  and  sift  thoroughly  2  cups 
flour,    '/2    teasp.  salt,   and   2   teasp.  baking  powder; 


into  this  rub  '/4  cup  butter;  add  V4  cups  milk  and 
I  beaten  egg.  Spread  mixture  on  a  buttered  bis- 
cuit tin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Split  apart  at 
edge,  cool  5  minutes,  spread  with  butter  and  fill 
with  a  sweetened  fruit  mixture.  Put  same  mix- 
ture on  top  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

Old  Fashioned  Shortcake — Mix  and  sift  thor- 
oughly 2  cups  flour,  J/>  teasp.  salt,  J/2  teasp.  soda, 
and  add  I  cup  sour  cream  slowly;  beat  well  2 
minutes,  pour  into  hot  buttered  frying  pan.  Cover 
with  a  tin  and  set  hot  griddle  over.  Turn  in  less 
than  1 0  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  When 
done  break  in  pieces  and  serve  on  folded  napkin. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^iiiiiiiiiiiiiiim!iiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii<iiiii]iiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiii£ 

i     i  _,     classy  i>rrmi   e     = 


C5te%hA      ^ 


=    ^ 


=    *t°? .     .^f   *  -  Iv  ^    ^jjlK  .jiv I      =     »«     £ 


£  £  COOKIES,    GINGERBREADS,    FROSTINGS  AND  FILLINGS   £  £ 

.£iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii,niiiiiiiiiiMiiii^ 

In  making  cake  use  only  the  best  of  material.  Have  all  utensils  ready;  an 
earthen  bowl,  a  wooden  spoon  for  mixing,  a  half-pint  measuring  cup,  a  dover  beater 
for  egg  yolks,  a  wire  egg  whip  for  the  whites  and  a  flour  sifter  for  dry  ingredients. 

All  measurements  are  used  level.  Dry  ingredients  should  be  sifted  before 
measuring.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  after  measuring  two  or  three  times  be- 
fore using. 

Never  grease  pans  when  baking  sponge  or  angel  food  cake.  Large  loaf 
cakes  or  fruit  cakes  should  be  baked  in  pans  lined  with  greased  paper.  For  other 
cakes  the  pan  should  be  greased,  using  cold  lard  or  butter,  dusted  over  with  flour. 

To  remove  cake  from  pans,  invert  pans  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven  into  a  wire 
netting.  If  cake  sticks  to  the  pan  turn  upside  down  and  put  a  damp  cloth  over  the  bottom 
for  a  few  minutes. 

To  keep  cake  from  burning,  sprinkle  salt  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven. 

The  oven  should  be  ready.  The  tests  are:  If  a  piece  of  white  paper  turns  a  deep 
yellow  in  5  minutes  the  oven  is  right  for  cakes  with  butter;  if  it  turns  a  light  yellow  in  5 
minutes  it  is  right  for  sponge  cake. 

To  Frost  Cake — When  cooked  frostings  are  used  the  cake  may  be  spread  when  hot  or 
cold;  when  uncooked  frostings  are  used  it  is  best  to  spread  when  warm. 

To  spread  icing  smoothly  on  cake  dip  the  icing  knife  frequently  into  hot  water. 
When  making  icing  which  requires  a  great  deal  of  beating  use  a  wide  mouth  pitcher,  straight 
from  the  bottom  up,  just  the  right  height  for  the  egg  beater.  Break  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
into  the  pitcher,  beat  until  stiff;  cook  the  syrup  and  gradually  pour  on  the  beaten  whites 
and  stir  vigorously  with  a  long  spoon.  The  pitcher  is  easy  to  hold  and  the  icing  pours 
evenly  over  the  cakes.     The  pitcher  is  also  good  to  use  for  waffles  and  griddle  cake  batter. 


SUGGESTIONS  for   CAKE  MAKING 

(Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture) 

1 .  Measure  or  weigh  out  the  exact  quantities  of  all  the  ingredients  to  be 
used  before  beginning  to  mix  the  cake. 

2.  Sift  the  flour  before  measuring. 

3.  Add  leavening  agents  to  the  measured  sifted  flour.     Sift  together  be- 
fore adding  to  cake  liquids. 

4.  Have  pans  buttered  and  floured  or  lined  with  plain  white  buttered  paper. 

5.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  small  bowl,  separating  the  whites  from  the  yolks 
when  necessary. 

6.  Beat  the  white  of  the  eggs  just  before  adding  the  flour  to  the  cake, 
then  at  the  last,  fold  in  the  beaten  whites. 

7.  Test  the  oven  just  before  mixing  the  cake. 

229 


230        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


MATERIALS 

The    choicest   materials  are   necessary: 

1 .  The    fats    must   be   sweet   and   pure. 

2.  Fresh    eggs. 

3.  Fine    granulated   sugar. 

'      4.    Choice   nuts,    fruits    and    flavorings. 

5.  Pastry  flour  or  a  fine  quality  of  bread  flour 
or  combination  of  bread  flour  and  corn  starch. 
(Use  I  part  corn  starch  to  7  parts  bread  flour, 
or  to  make  one  cup  of  pastry  flour  use  2  tbsp. 
corn  starch  plus    14   tbsp.   of  bread  flour.) 

DIRECTIONS    FOR    BAKING    CAKE 

Sponge    cake 40-50    minutes,    340    degrees    F. 

Butter   cake 40-50    minutes,    380    degrees    F. 

Small  cakes  and  layer  cakes — 25-30  minutes, 
425   to   450  degrees  F. 

Molasses  drop  cakes — 25-30  minutes,  380  de- 
grees F. 

EXPERT    INTERPRETATION    OF    OVEN 
TEMPERATURE 

Slow     (meringues    and    custards) 250     to     300 

degrees  F. 

Slow   to    medium — 300   to    350   degrees   F. 

Medium  (bread,  20  oz.  loaf) — 350  to  360 
degrees  F. 

Medium   to  hot 360   to   400  degrees  F. 

Hot — 400   to    450  degrees   F. 

Very  hot 450   to    500  degrees  F. 

DIVISION    OF    TIME 

First    quarter Rise,    not    brown. 

Second    quarter Rise,    and   begin    to   brown. 

Third    quarter Brown,    not   rise. 

Fourth    quarter Neither    rise    nor   brown,    grow 

firm   and    shrink   away   from   pan. 

POINTS    OF    A    GOOD    CAKE 

A  good  butter  cake  is  smooth  on  top  and  evenly 
browned.  Bursting  and  crackling  indicate  too 
much  flour  or  too  rapid  baking. 

Inside  of  loaf  should  be  slightly  moist  but  not 
sticky. 

Cake    should    be    fine    grained    and    of    uniform 

lightness. 

Coarse  grained  cakes  indicate  a  lack  of  beat- 
ing, too  low  an  oven  temperature,  or  too  much 
baking  powder. 

SOME    CONVENIENT    SUBSTITUTES 
Baking  Powder 

Use  2  level  teasp.  baking  powder  for  each  cup 
of    flour    if   no    eggs   are    used. 

When  eggs  are  used,  the  baking  powder  Is 
decreased.  One  egg  replaces  from  '/4  to  Yl  teasp. 
baking  powder. 


Soda 

Use    I    teasp.   soda  to   2   cups  thick  sour  milk. 

Use    Ya    teasp.    soda  to   2   tbsp.   lemon  juice. 

When  sour  milk  is  to  be  substituted  for  sweet 
milk,  use  Ya  teasp.  soda  to  each  cup  of  sour 
milk  for  sweetening,  then  use  amount  of  baking 
powder  (less  1  teasp.  for  each  cup  of  milk  used) 
given   in    recipe. 

Sugar 
Brown   or  powdered  sugar  should  be  substituted 
for    granulated    sugar    by    weight   instead    of   meas- 


Chocolate  and  Cocoa 

Cocoa  should  be  substituted  for  chocolate  by 
weight  instead  of  by  measure. 

When  cocoa  is  substituted  for  chocolate,  butter 
(Yl  tbsp.  butter  for  each  oz.  or  Ya  cup  cocoa) 
should   be    added. 

Bread    and    Pastry    Flour 

To  change  bread  flour  to  pastry  flour,  use  2 
level  tbsp.  cornstarch  to  replace  2  level  tbsp. 
flour  in  each  cupful. 

Fats 

Other  fats  may  be  substituted  for  butter  and 
the   cost  of  the   cake   considerably   reduced. 

Equivalent  of  Yz  Cup  Butter — Yl  CUP  chicken 
fat;  Yl  °up  lard,  less  1  tbsp.;  Yl  CUP  lard  sub- 
stitute, less  1  Yl  tbsp. ;  Ya  CUP  butter,  plus  3  tbsp. 
lard;  Ya  cuP  butter,  plus  3  tbsp.  lard  substitute; 
Yl    cup   cottonseed   oil,   less    1    tbsp. 

Use  Ys  CUP  lard  or  vegetable  oil  or  drippings 
from  which  water  has  been  driven  off,  to  take  the 
place    of    I    cup   butter   in   a    recipe. 

If  Yl  oup  nuts  is  added  to  a  recipe  which  calls 
for    1    cup    butter,    use   only    8    2-3    tbsp.    butter. 

If  one  square  chocolate  is  added  to  recipe 
which  calls  for    1    cup  butter,  use    1 3   tbsp.  butter. 

The  foregoing  suggestions  for  substitutions  are 
compiled  from  the  Cornell  Reading  Circle  leaflet 
on  cake  making  and  from  various  Government 
publications. 


USES    FOR    LEFT-OVER   CAKES 

Cake  that  is  dry  may  be  used  in  place  of  bread 
crumbs  in  a  pudding  recipe.  Less  sugar  should 
be   used   if   cake   crumbs   are  substituted   for  bread. 

Slices  of  stale  cake  may  be  arranged  in  alter- 
nate layers  with  sliced  fruit  and  covered  with  a 
soft    custard. 

Dry  cake  may  be  steamed  until  moist  and 
served    hot    with    a    pudding    sauce. 


CLASS  20— CAKE— RECIPES 


231 


CAKE  RECIPES— GENERAL 


Boiled  Frosting — Boil  together  1  /3  cup  water, 
I  cup  sugar,  and  Y&  teasp.  cream  of  tartar  until 
a  soft  ball  forms  in  cold  water;  pour  this  mixture 
very  slowly  on  I  egg  white  beaten  very  stiff; 
beat  as  you  pour  until  stiff  and  smooth.  Spread 
on  a  cold  cake. 

Orange  Icing — Grate  the  rind  of  an  orange  and 
soak  it  Yl  hour  in  3  teasp.  lemon  juice;  then 
squeeze  through  a  fine  muslin.  Stir  together  the 
white  of  1  egg,  1  teasp.  of  the  orange  and  lemon 
mixture  and  1  cup  powdered  sugar  until  the  sugar 
is  all  wet;  beat  with  a  fork  5  minutes.  Spread 
on   cake   while  warm. 

Lemon  Frosting — Stir  together  the  white  of  I 
egg,  1  teasp.  lemon  juice  and  I  cup  powdered 
sugar  until  the  sugar  is  all  wet;  beat  with  a  fork 
5    minutes.      Spread    on    cake    while   warm. 

Chocolate  Icing — Into  the  boiled  icing  melt  1 
oz.    chocolate    and    1    teasp.    powdered   sugar. 

Vanilla  Icing — Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  very 
stiff;  add  1  Yl  cups  powdered  sugar  gradually  and 
flavor  with    I    teasp.   vanilla. 

White  Icing — Boil  3  cupfuls  sugar  and  Yl  cup 
water  until  thick;  then  pour  it  on  whites  of  3 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Beat  all  together.  Use  when 
cool. 

Maple  Fondant — Boil  together  1  cup  maple 
sugar  and  Yl  cup  thin  cream  for  15  minutes; 
then  take  from  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  it 
stiffens  and  spread  on  warm  cake  quickly  as  it 
hardens  very  fast. 

Sugar  Glaze — Beat  thoroughly  1  cup  powdered 
sugar,  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  and  about  1  tbsp. 
boiling  water  until  very  smooth.  Spread  on  cake 
as   soon   as   taken   from   oven. 

Chocolate  Glaze — Beat  thoroughly  1  cup  pow- 
dered sugar,  1  tbsp.  boiled  water,  3  tbsp.  pulver- 
ized chocolate  and  1  teasp.  vanilla  until  very 
smooth.       Use    the    same   way    as    sugar    glaze. 

Mocha  Frosting — Cream  together  1  teasp.  but- 
ter, 1  tbsp.  hot  strong  coffee,  1  teasp.  cocoa  and 
Yl  teasp.  confectionery  sugar;  then  stir  in  Yl 
teasp.  vanilla.      Do  not  make  frosting  too  stiff. 

Chocolate  Filling — Boil  together  5  minutes  1 
cup  sugar,  2  squares  chocolate,  grated,  2  tbsp. 
butter  and  %  cup  milk;  add  2  tbsp.  cornstarch 
in  J4  cup  milk  and  boil  3  minutes  more.  Beat 
until   cool,    then  add    1    teasp.   vanilla. 

Fruit  Filling — Chop  fine  and  mix  together  1 
cup  raisins,  Yl  lb.  blanched  almonds,  Yl  lb-  nS9' 
and  Yl  lb-  citron.  Add  enough  frosting  to  make 
a    soft   paste. 


Lemon  Filling — Cook  together  1  cup  sugar,  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  2  eggs,  and  I 
tbsp.  butter  over  boiling  water.  Let  cook  until 
thick,   and  use  when   cool. 

Almond  Cream  Filling — Beat  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  stiff,  add  2  cups  sugar,  1  teasp.  vanilla,  and 
1  pint  blanched  chopped  almonds.  Mix  well  to- 
gether. 

Cream  Filling Beat  together  2/3    cup  sugar,    '/£ 

cup  flour,  2  eggs,  and  J4  teasp.  salt;  then  stir 
in  1  Yl  cups  scalded  milk  and  cook  1 5  minutes, 
stirring  often.      Flavor  with  vanilla  when   cold. 

Custard  Filling — Put  Yl  cup  butter  into  I  pint 
milk  and  let  come  to  a  boil;  then  stir  in  2  eggs, 
1  cup  sugar  and  2  teasp.  cornstarch.  Stir  all 
well    together. 

Raisin  Filling — Stir  together  thoroughly  Yl  cup 
sugar  and  2  tbsp.  flour;  add  Yl  cup  water  and 
cook  until  thickened;  then  add  juice  of  Yl  lemon 
and  Yl  cup  raisins  and  I  doz.  walnuts,  chopped 
fine.      Use   when   cool. 

Sponge  Cake — Mix  slowly  1  cup  sugar  to  6 
beaten  egg  yolks;  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon,  whites  of  6  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff,  and 
fold  in  1  cup  flour  and  Y-i  teasp.  salt,  sifted.  Bake 
in   deep  tin  about   50  minutes. 

Sunshine  Cake — Beat  I  1  egg  whites  very  stiff, 
add  %  cup  sugar;  beat  6  egg  yolks  very  light, 
add  1  teasp.  orange  extract  and  %  cup  sugar. 
Combine  the  yolks  and  white  mixture,  then  fold 
in  1  cup  flour  and  1  teasp.  cream  of  tartar  sifted 
together.  Bake  50  to  60  minutes,  using  angel 
cake  pan. 

Angel  Cake — Beat  1  I  egg  whites  until  frothy, 
add  1  teasp.  cream  of  tartar,  continue  beating 
till  eggs  are  stiff;  then  sift  in  1  Yl  cups  sugar 
gradually,  fold  in  1  cup  flour  and  Ya  teasp.  salt, 
sifted  thoroughly,  and  add  1  teasp.  vanilla.  Bake 
45  to  50  minutes  in  angel  cake  pan.  Stand  up- 
side   down    till    cake    drops   out. 

Jelly    Roll Mix    and    sift     1     cup    sugar,     1     cup 

flour  and  I  Yl  teasp.  baking  powder;  add  3  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  beat  well  together;  pour  into 
a  well-greased  pan.  Bake  slowly.  When  done, 
put  cake  on  brown  paper  dusted  with  powdered 
sugar;  spread  with  jelly  and  roll  up.  If  allowed 
to    cool   before    rolling   the    cake   will   break. 

Cup  Cake — Put  1  cup  butter  into  bowl  and 
beat  till  creamy,  add  slowly  2  cups  sugar  and  4 
well-beaten  egg  yolks;  then  add  "bYl  cups  flour 
and  3  teasp.  baking  powder,  sifted,  to  the  mix- 
ture, alternating  with  I  cup  milk.  Fold  in  the 
whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stiff;  do  not  stir  after 
the  whites  are   added.      Bake  about   40   minutes. 


232        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


A  plain  cup  cake  that  is  useful  for  layer  cakes 
is  made  with  Yl  cup  butter  and  a  scant  measure 
of  sugar. 

A  heaping  tbsp.  of  yellow  ginger  makes  this 
cake    a    delicious    ginger   bread. 

Omit  the  milk  and  add  enough  flour  to  roll  out 
and  it  can  be  baked  as  jumbles,  or  with  half  the 
milk   and    flour   to    roll    out,    as    cookies. 

Sour  Cream  Cake — Beat  I  egg  and  add  it  to 
!  cup  brown  sugar;  then  add  J4  cup  butter  and 
Yn  cup  sour  cream;  sift  together  Yl  teasp.  salt, 
mace  and  1  2/3  cups  flour,  add  to  the  other  in- 
gredients, then  add  Yl  teasp.  soda.  Bake  in 
moderate   oven. 

Custard    Corn    Cake — (Farmers'    Bulletin,     565, 

on    "Corn-Meal,"    U.    S.    Dept.    of   Agri.) 2    eggs, 

Ya  cup  sugar,  1  teasp.  soda,  1  teasp.  salt,  1  cup 
sour  milk,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  I  2/3  cups  corn- 
meal,  1/3  cup  wheat  flour,  2  tbsp.  butter,  and  1 
cup   cream. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together  thoroughly. 
Sift  the  flour,  soda  and  salt  together  and  mix 
with  the  meal.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  but  the 
cream  and  butter.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  deep  pan, 
using  plenty  on  the  sides.  Pour  in  the  batter, 
add  (without  stirring)  a  cup  of  cream,  and  bake 
20  to  30  minutes.  When  cooked,  there  should 
be  a  layer  of  custard  on  top  of  the  cake  or  small 
bits   of   custard   distributed   through   it. 

For  economy's  sake,  milk  may  be  used  in  place 
of   the    cream   in    this   recipe. 

This    serves    6    people. 

Pound  Cake — Cream  I  lb.  sugar  and  24  lb- 
butter  together,  add  the  yolks  of  8  eggs,  well 
beaten,  then  the  whites,  well  beaten;  flavor  to 
taste  and  combine  this  mixture  with  1  lb.  flour, 
beating  the  whole  well  together.  Line  a  cake  pan 
with  buttered  paper,  pour  the  batter  into  it  and 
sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  surface.  Bake  about 
1  Yl   hours  in  very  slow  oven. 

Chocolate    Cake — Cream    Yl    CUP   butter,   add    1 

cup  sugar,  3  egg  yolks,  beaten,  1  1  /3  cups  flour, 
and  3  teasp.  baking  powder  sifted,  and  alternate 
with  Yl  CUP  milk;  melt  2  oz.  chocolate  and  stir 
into  mixture;  add  1  teasp.  vanilla  and  fold  in  3 
egg  whites,  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  shallow  cake 
tin.  Frost  with  fondant.  When  frosting  is  cold, 
spread  with   melted   unsweetened   chocolate. 

Chocolate  Cake  without  Eggs — Cook  together 
I  cup  brown  sugar,  Yl  CUP  cocoa  and  1  cup  milk; 
when  cool,  add  Yl  CUP  white  sugar  and  Yl  CUP 
butter,  well  creamed  together;  then  add  1  cup 
milk,  1  teasp.  soda  and  2  cups  flour  sifted.  Bake 
in  shallow  cake  tin,  and  when  done  spread  with 
frosting. 

Molasses  Cake — Cream  1  cup  butter  and  1  cup 
brown   sugar,    add    1    cup    milk,    1    egg  and    Yl    CUP 


molasses;  stir  in  1  Yl  pints  flour  sifted  with  1  Yl 
teasp.  baking  powder  and  mix  into  a  firm  batter. 
Bake  40  minutes. 

Molasses    Corn    Cake (Farmers'    Bulletin,    565, 

on    "Corn-Meal,"    U.    S.    Dept.    of    Agri.) 2    cups 

yellow  corn-meal,  Yl  CUP  molasses,  Yl  cup  sugar, 
2  tbsp.  butter,  1  teasp.  salt,  I  cup  sour  milk,  1  Yl 
cups  sweet  milk,  J  cup  wheat  flour,  I  Yl  teasp. 
soda,    1    egg. 

Mix  the  first  seven  ingredients  in  a  double 
boiler  and  cook  over  hot  water.  Cook  for  about 
25  minutes  after  the  mixture  has  become  hot. 
After  it  has  cooled,  add  the  wheat  flour  and 
soda,  thoroughly  sifted  together,  and  the  egg  well 
beaten.      Bake  in  a  shallow  tin. 

This   serves    6   people. 

Corn-Meal       Gingerbread — (Farmers'       Bulletin, 

565,    on    "Corn-Meal,"   U.    S.    Dept.    of   Agri.) To 

the  above  recipe  add  1  Yl  teasp.  ginger,  I  Yl  teasp. 
cinnamon,  and  Yl  teasp.  cloves,  sifting  them  with 
the  flour. 

This  serves   6  people. 

Gingerbread — Mix  together  Yl  CUP  butter  and 
2  tbsp.  sugar,  then  rub  it  into  2  cups  flour  until 
fine;  add  I  cup  molasses,  yolk  of  I  egg,  and  beat 
well;-  then  add  1  cup  boiling  water  and  stiff 
beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Bake  in  a  dripping  paii, 
30   to   40   minutes  in   moderate   oven. 

Warm  gingerbread  makes  a  nice  luncheon 
dessert  served  with  whipped   cream. 

Cinnamon  Cake — Make  a  light  bread  dough, 
amount  equal  to  that  required  for  one  loaf  of 
bread,  and  add  I  beaten  egg,  Ya  cup  sugar,  2 
tbsp.  melted  butter,  I  cup  seeded  raisins;  mix 
thoroughly  and  put  in  shallow  greased  pan.  Let 
stand  until  light,  sprinkle  top  with  a  mixture  of 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  chopped  almonds  and  dot 
with  butter.      Bake   20   minutes  in   hot  oven. 

Coffee  Ring Mix    1/6   cup   sugar  and    Ya    teasp. 

salt  in  Yl  CUP  scalded  milk  and  when  lukewarm 
add  Ya  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  warm 
water;  add  Ya  CUP  flour,  beat,  and  stand  in  a 
warm  place  until  spongy;  then  add  2  Yl  tbsp. 
melted  butter,  I  beaten  egg  and  I  cup  flour  and 
knead  2  or  3  minutes,  and  let  stand  until  light. 
Roll  on  floured  board  into  a  long,  narrow,  thin 
sheet.  Spread  with  butter,  cover  with  Yl  CUP 
raisins  and  Ya  cuP  shredded  citron;  sprinkle  with 
plenty  of  sugar  and  cinnamon,  roll  lengthwise, 
twist,  and  bring  ends  together.  Put  in  a  greased 
round  shallow  tube  pan,  let  stand  until  light. 
Bake  in  hot  oven,  35  minutes.  Spread  with  frost- 
ing. 

Apple  Cake  —  Bake  shortcake  dough  in  2 
layers;  grate  I  large  tart  apple,  mix  with  1  cup 
sugar,  1  egg  white  and  beat  together  thoroughly. 
Spread    between   layers   and    on    top. 


CLASS  20— CAKE— RECIPES 


233 


Dutch  Apple  Cake  —  Mix  together  2  teasp. 
baking  powder  and  Yl  teasp.  salt  and  work  in  V4 
cup  butter.  Add  1  well-beaten  egg  to  1  cup  milk 
and  stir  into  the  flour  mixture.  Put  into  buttered 
pie  tin,  then  press  into  the  dough  4  apples  that 
have  been  peeled,  cored  and  quartered.  Sprinkle 
over  this  a  mixture  of  3  tbsp.  cinnamon  and  1 
tbsp.  sugar,  or  more  if  apples  are  tart.  Bake 
until  fruit  is  soft  and  a  golden  brown  crust  is 
formed. 

Peaches   may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Blueberry  Tea  Cake — Mix  and  sift  4  cups  flour, 
I  teasp.  salt,  4  teasp.  baking  powder,  and  I  cup 
sugar;  add  slowly  2  cups  milk,  Yl  CUP  melted  but- 
ter, and  2  well-beaten  eggs;  beat  altogether  thor- 
oughly, dredge  blueberries  with  flour  and  fold  into 
batter.  Fill  greased  gem  pans  %  fu"  an<^  bake 
Yl   hour  in   moderate  oven. 

Layer  Cakes — For  all  kinds  of  layer  cakes  use 
the  same  rule  as  for  shortcake  in  making  the 
layers;  spread  filling  or  icing  between  layers  and 
on  top. 

Wedding  Cake — Beat  2  cups  butter  and  2  cups 
sugar  to  a  soft  cream,  add  5  cups  flour,  then  add 
a  mixture  of  1  cup  currants,  3  cups  raisins,  Yl 
cup  glace  cherries  cut  in  quarters,  I  cup  blanched 
almonds  finely  chopped,  and  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons;  mix  thoroughly  and  add  1  cup  brandy. 
Put  this  mixture  into  a  large,  round,  buttered 
cake  tin  lined  with  buttered  paper,  smooth  the  top 
with  a  knife  dipped  in  hot  water  and  stand  the  cake 
on  a  baking  tin  on  which  is  spread  a  thick  layer 
of  salt  to  prevent  cake  from  burning  underneath. 
Bake  5  hours  in  moderate  oven;  lower  the  heat 
gradually  so  that  it  is  cooked  thoroughly  without 
getting  burnt. 

When  cold  wrap  in  waxed  paper,  then  in  sev- 
eral layers  of  soft  paper  and  pack  away  in  a  dry 
tin  tightly  closed.  Store  it  in  a  dry,  cool  but  not 
cold  place.  It  should  be  kept  8  weeks  before 
being  used.  The  day  before  the  wedding  cover 
the  cake  with  2  coats  of  boiled  frosting,  and  dec- 
orate   with    candles,    white    ribbon,    etc. 

Fruit  Cake — Cream  1  cup  butter  with  2  cups 
brown  sugar,  add  yolks  of  4  eggs;  stir  1  teasp. 
soda  in  1  cup  strong  coffee,  then  pour  in  1  cup 
molasses  and  add  I  teasp.  cinnamon,  1  teasp. 
cloves,  1  grated  nutmeg  and  4  cups  flour,  sifted; 
then  add  1  lb.  raisins  and  1  lb.  currants;  citron 
and  dates  if  desired;  stir  mixture  well  together, 
and  put  into  round  cake  pan  lined  with  greased 
paper.      Bake   slowly   3    hours. 

Hickory    Nut    Cake — Cream    4    oz.    butter    with 

1  Yl  CUPS  sugar>  add  2  cups  flour  and  %  CUP 
water  and  stir  until  smooth;  then  add  2  well- 
beaten  whites  of  eggs,    1    cup  hickory  nut  kernels, 

2  more    well-beaten    whites    of    eggs    and     I     teasp. 


baking  powder.  Pour  into  flat  tins  lined  with 
greased  paper  and  bake  45  minutes  in  moderate 
oven. 

Fruit  Gems — (Farmers'  Bulletin,  565,  on  "Corn- 
Meal,"   U.   S.    Dept.    of  Agri.) Yl    CUP    corn-meal, 

I  cup  wheat  flour,  3  teasp.  baking  powder,  6 
tbsp.  sugar,  2  tbsp.  melted  butter,  1  teasp.  salt, 
I  cup  milk,  I  cup  currants  or  raisins,  2  eggs,  I 
tbsp.  flour  reserved  for  flouring  currants  or  raisins. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients;  add  the  milk 
gradually,  the  eggs  well  beaten,  melted  butter,  and 
raisins,  which  have  been  floured.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  in  buttered  gem  pans  25   minutes. 

This  makes   1 2  cakes. 

Cookies — To  roll  out  the  dough  very  thin,  es- 
pecially when  raisins  or  citron  are  used,  put  a 
piece  of  Japanese  parchment  paper  between  the 
rolling  pin  and  the  dough  and  then  roll  forward 
toward  the  dough  lump.  Also  cut  the  dough  into 
small   pieces   before    beginning   to    roll. 

Ginger  Cookies — Mix  together  I  cup  molasses 
with  2  tbsp.  warm  milk  or  water,  I  tbsp.  ginger, 
Yl  cup  soft  butter,  1  teasp.  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  milk,  and  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough. 
Put  on  floured  board  and  shape  the  cookies  an 
Yi   inch  thick.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Sour  Milk  Cookies — Cream  Yl  CUP  butter  with 
Yl  cup  sugar;  add  1  cup  sour  milk  in  which  % 
of  a  teasp.  soda  has  been  dissolved,  2  cups  flour 
sifted  with  Yl  teasp.  cloves,  Yl  teasp.  cinnamon 
and  1  teasp.  salt;  mix  well  together.  Roll  out 
thin  and  chill  the  dough  before  cutting  the 
cookies. 

Oatmeal  Cookies — Combine  2  cups  medium 
fine  oatmeal,  1  Yl  cups  flour,  Yl  cup  butter,  Yl 
cup  sugar,  2  teasp.  yeast  powder,  and  enough 
milk  or  water  to  mix  well.  Roll  out  and  cut  with 
round  cutter  and  bake  20  minutes  in  very  hot 
oven. 

Spiced  Oat  Cookies — Cream  Yl  cup  butter,  add 
1  cup  sugar,  Yl  teasp.  salt,  Yl  teasp.  allspice,  24 
teasp.  soda,  1  Yl  cups  rolled  oats,  I  beaten  egg, 
and  Yl  cup  milk;  mix  well,  then  add  I  Yl  cups 
chopped  figs  or  dates  and  about  2  Y4  cups  flour. 
Mix  all  thoroughly  together.  Drop  from  tip  of 
spoon  on  greased  cookie  sheets  and  flatten  with 
a  fork.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  1 5  minutes. 
These   cookies   keep    for   several   weeks. 

Honey  Bran  Cookies — Mix  3  cups  bran  with 
Yl  teasp.  soda  and  I  teasp.  spice  mixture  and 
combine  with  Yl  cup  sugar,  Yl  CUP  honey,  Yl  cup 
milk  and    Yl   CUP  melted  butter.      Bake    1 5  minutes. 

Scotch    Cookies Cream    Yl    cup    butter,    add     I 

cup  sugar  gradually,  3  well-beaten  eggs,  4  tbsp. 
cinnamon  and  enough  flour  to  roll  out  very  thin. 
Bake    in    quick   oven. 


234        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Sugar  Cookies — Cream  together  2  cups  butter 
and  1  cup  sugar;  stir  in  2  egg  yolks,  rind  and 
juice  of  Yl  lemon,  1  cup  finely  chopped  almonds, 
and  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  I  teasp.  baking  pow- 
der. Work  in  enough  flour  to  roll  out  thin.  Cut 
into  cookies  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  in 
moderate   oven. 

Macaroons — Beat  I  egg  until  light,  add  Yl  cup 
sugar,     2/3     tbsp.     melted    butter,     2/3     cup    rolled 


oats,  1/3  cup  shredded  cocoanut  and  a  little  salt; 
flavor  with  '4  teasp.  vanilla.  Drop  from  teasp. 
on  to  buttered  pan;  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  20 
minutes. 

Chocolate  Macaroons — Beat  white  of  I  egg 
until  stiff;  then  add  Yl  CUP  powdered  sugar,  2 
tbsp.  cocoa,  Yl  CUP  raw  oatmeal,  pinch  of  salt 
and  J,  4  teasp.  vanilla.  Drop  from  teasp.  on  to 
buttered  pan  and  bake  in   moderate   oven. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CLASS  20— CAKE— RECIPES 


235 


SOME   INEXPENSIVE   CAKES 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin) 


Soft  Molasses  Cookies — I  cup  molasses,  \¥a 
teasp.  soda,  1  cup  sour  milk,  Vl  CUP  shortening, 
melted,   2   teasp.    ginger,    1    teasp.   salt,    flour. 

Add  soda  to  molasses  and  beat  thoroughly;  add 
milk,  shortening,  ginger,  salt  and  flour.  Enough 
flour  must  be  used  to  make  mixture  of  right  con- 
sistency to  drop  easily  from  a  spoon.  Let  stand 
several  hours  in  a  cold  place  to  thoroughly  chill. 
Toss  one-half  mixture  at  a  time  on  slightly  floured 
board  and  roll  lightly  to  Va  >ncn  thickness.  Shape 
with  a  round  cutter  first  dipped  in  flour.  Bake 
on    a    buttered    sheet. — Fannie    Merrit    Farmer. 

Oatmeal  Cookies — 2  cups  rolled  oats,  Vl  cup 
flour,  1  cup  sugar,  I  egg,  2  teasp.  baking  powder, 
2   tbsp.   fat,    !4    teasp.  salt,   3   tbsp.  milk. 

Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  add  mixed  and  sifted 
dry  ingredients.  Drop  on  greased  pan  and  bake 
in  moderate   oven. 

Crumb  Gingerbread — I  cup  molasses,  Vl  cup 
boiling  water,  1  1/3  cups  fine  bread  crumbs,  2/3 
cup  flour,  1  teasp.  soda,  I  Vl  teasp.  ginger,  Vl  teasp. 
salt,    I    tbsp.   fat. 

Add  water  to  molasses  and  combine  with  the 
dry  ingredients,  then  add  fat  and  beat  thoroughly. 

Gingerbread — Vl  cup  butter,  Vl  <=up  sugar,  Vz 
cup  sorghum,  Vz  cup  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  I  teasp. 
soda,  2  cups  flour,  1  teasp.  cinnamon,  1  teasp. 
ginger. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  sorghum,  milk 
and  beaten  eggs.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together 
and  add  to  liquids,  beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

Molasses  Drop  Cake — Vz  cup  sugar,  Vz  cup 
molasses,  Vz  cup  shortening  ,  Vl  CUP  boiling 
water,  Vl  teasp.  cloves,  Vl  teasp.  cinnamon,  Yz 
teasp.  nutmeg,  IVz  CUPS  nour>  '  e8g'  34  teasp. 
soda. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  boiling 
water  to  sugar,  shortening  and  molasses.  Add 
dry  ingredients  gradually.  Add  egg  last  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (about  2 1  5 
degrees  F.). 

Little  Brown  Cakes — 2  cups  brown  sugar,  I  cup 
shortening,  3  eggs,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teasp. 
soda,  1  teasp.  salt,  Vl  teasp.  cinnamon,  Vl  teasp. 
cloves,     1     cup    raisins,    Vl    teasp.    nutmeg,    3    cups 

flour. 

Cream  the  shortening  and  sugar  and  add  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  milk.  Sift  flour,  soda  and  spices 
together,  add  raisins  and  add  dry  ingredients  to 
first  mixture.  Bake  in  small  buttered  muffin  pans 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


Spice  Cake — No  Eggs,  Butter,  or  Milk — I  cup 
brown  sugar,  2  cups  raisins  (figs,  prunes  or 
dates),  1  cup  water,  1/3  cup  lard,  Va  teasp.  nut- 
meg Va  teasp.  cloves,  1  teasp.  cinnamon,  Vi  teasp. 
salt. 

Boil  3  minutes.  Let  cool  and  add  2  cups  flour, 
1  teasp.  soda,  Vl  teasp.  baking  powder  sifted  to- 
gether.     Bake   35   to   40   minutes. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake  (Without  Eggs) — 1/3  cup 
fat,  I  cup  sugar,  I  cup  apple  sauce  pulp  (sweet- 
ened), I  Ya  cups  flour,  1  teasp.  soda,  1  teasp. 
cinnamon,  Vl  teasp.  cloves,  Va  teasp.  salt,  ¥a 
cup   raisins. 

Cream  fat,  add  sugar  and  continue  creaming. 
Add  apple  sauce  and  dry  ingredients,  mixed  and 
sifted.  Beat  vigorously  1  minute.  Add  raisins. 
Fill  a  loaf  cake  pan  and  bake  40  minutes  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

NOTE. — Apricot,  rhubarb,  or  cranberry  pulp 
may  be  used. 

Dried  Apple  Cake — I  cup  dried  apples,  1  cup 
molasses,  Vl  CUP  fat,  1  teasp.  soda,  1  cup  sour 
milk,  1  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  3  Vl  cups  flour,  I  teasp. 
cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg,  I  cup  raisins,  Vl  teasp. 
salt. 

Soak  apples  overnight.  Drain,  add  molasses, 
and  cook  until  thickened.  Add  fat  and  cool  mix- 
ture. Add  mixed  and  sifted  dry  ingredients  and 
the  raisins,  which  have  been  stewed  in  small 
amount  of  water  until  water  is  absorbed.  This 
makes  the  raisins  plumper  and  better  cooked  and 
will  help  to  prevent  them  going  to  the  bottom  of 
the  loaf  in   baking. 

Plain  Cake — 1  cup  sugar,  1-3  cup  fat,  2  eggs, 
Vz  cup  milk,  2  teasp.  baking  powder,  1  Vz  cups 
flour,     I    teasp.    lemon    extract. 

Cream  fat,  add  the  sugar  and  beaten  eggs. 
Add  the  milk  alternately  with  the  sifted  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Add  the  lemon  extract.  Bake 
in  a  loaf  or  in  layers.      Serve  freshly  made. 

Tea  Cakes — 2  eggs,  sour  cream  (thin),  I  cup 
sugar,  Vl  teasp.  salt,  I  Vl  cups  flour,  Va  teasp. 
soda,  1  teasp.  baking  powder,  I  teasp.  lemon 
extract. 

Break  eggs  in  a  cup.  Add  sufficient  thin,  sour 
cream  to  fill  the  cup,  add  to  sugar.  Beat  thor- 
oughly, add  flour  sifted  with  salt,  soda  and  bak- 
ing powder.  Beat  very  thoroughly.  Bake  in 
gem  pans  or  layers.  This  may  be  varied  by  add- 
ing   Vl    CUP   raisins  or    Vl    CUP  shredded   cocoanut. 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake — Yolks  2  eggs,  I  cup 
sugar,  6  tbsp.  boiling  water,  1  cup  flour,  1  Vz 
teasp.  baking  powder,  Va  teasp.  salt,  whites  2 
eggs,    Va    teasp.    lemon    extract. 


236        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Beat    egg   yolks    until   thick   and   lemon    colored,  sugar,  flavoring,  beaten  egg  whites,  and  sifted  dry 

add   one-half  of  the   sugar   gradually  and   continue  ingredients.      Bake   in   a   moderate   oven   in   a  but- 

beating.       Add    the    boiling    water,    the    remaining  tered  and   floured  pan. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


dllllllilllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllllllH!: 


|  Pastry 


CLASS  21       | 


PIES,  TARTS,  DUMPLINGS  |  | 

FTl  t  M 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 E  M  i  iTl  1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 f 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 B 1 1 1 1 1 E 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 M 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 M I ■ i ■ I M 1 1 1 1 1 E 1 1 1 1 M 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i I i  f 1 1 1 1  iTl  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1^ 

Pastry  flour  makes  a  much  more  tender  crust  than  bread  flour  and  will 
require  less  shortening. 

Lard  makes  a  very  tender  crust,  but  butter  gives  a  better  flavor. 

Shortening  should  be  thoroughly  chilled  before  using.  When  it  is  worked 
into  the  dough  it  makes  the  pastry  short  and  tender,  but  that  which  is  spread  over 
the  pastry  when  rolling  out  makes  it  flaky. 

In  very  warm  weather  it  is  better  to  use  a  knife  or  fork  to  cut  or  rub  shorten- 
ing in,  rather  than  to  use  the  fingers,  as  the  heat  from  the  hands  often  softens  the 
shortening  and  makes  the  pastry  sticky. 

When  rolling  out  pastry  use  only  enough  flour  to  keep  dough  from  stick- 
ing to  the  board  and  pan. 

While  mixing  pastry  keep  it  as  cool  as  possible;  use  ice-water  when  it  can 
be  obtained.     Handle  as  little  as  possible. 


RECIPES 


Puff   Paste Use    1    lb.    flour   and    I    lb.    unsalted 

butter.  Chop  fine  with  a  knife  in  an  earthenware 
bowl;  to  make  a  stiff  paste  add  a  little  ice  water; 
then  turn  out  of  bowl  on  to  baking  board  or  marble 
slab.  Beat  until  flat  with  rolling  pin;  do  not  touch 
with  the  hands;  cut  in  three,  place  in  a  pile,  one 
on  top  of  the  other,  beat  flat  again,  and  cut  a  sec- 
ond time;  repeat  a  third  time.  Put  in  ice  chest 
6  hours,  when  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Pie  Crust — Rub  half  a  cupful  of  equal  parts  of 
lard  and  butter  into  2  cupfuls  of  flour  and  mix  the 
whole  as  lightly  as  possible  into  a  stiff  paste  with  a 
little  ice  water;  roll  it  out,  folding  the  paste  over 
each  time. 

Apple  Pie Peel  and  core  5  or  6  apples,  cut  into 

eighths.  Line  pie  tin  with  half  of  pie  crust,  then 
pile  on  the  apples.  Cover  with  a  mixture  of  Yl 
cup  of  sugar,  few  gratings  of  nutmeg,  Yl  teaspoon 
cinnamon.  Dot  with  butter.  Lay  top  crust  over 
and  press  edges  firmly  together.  Bake  40  to  45 
minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

To  glaze  top  crust  brush  it  over  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  to  make  it  a  deep  brown;  yolk  and  white 
mixed  for  a  lighter  brown;  milk  with  a  little  sugar 
in  it  for  very  light  glaze. 

Peach  Pie — Line  a  pie  pan  with  crust  and  fill  it 
with  sliced  canned  peaches.  Pour  over  the  peaches 
a  mixture  of  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  Yl  teaspoonful 
finely  chopped  lemon  peel,  1  tablespoonful  lemon 
juice  and  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  peach  juice. 
Cover  with  crust  and  bake  in  hot  oven  20  or  30 
minutes  or  longer  if  necessary.  Fresh  peaches  can 
be  used  in  the  same  way,  after  they  are  peeled 
and  sliced,  but  more  sugar  should  be  used  if 
peaches  are  sour. 


Glazed  Peach  Pie — When  nearly  done  take  Hie 
pie  out  of  oven  and  brush  the  top  with  the  white 
of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  sprinkle  a  little  sugar 
and  a  few  drops  of  water  on  it.  Put  the  pie  back 
in  oven  and  finish  baking;  be  careful  not  to  burn 
as  it  is  liable  to  do  when  crust  is  glazed.  Serve  hot 
or  cold. 

Cherry   Pie Line   a   pie   pan   with   crust  and    fill 

with  ripe  cherries,  stoned.  Use  sugar  to  taste. 
Cover  with  crust  and  bake  20  to  30  minutes. 

Raspberry,  blackberry  and  plum  pie  are  made  in 
the  same  way. 

Lemon  Pie Mix  1  cup  sugar  with  3  tablespoon- 
fuls cornstarch,  add  1  cup  boiling  water  slowly 
and  cook  until  clear;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  but- 
ter, 2  beaten  egg  yolks  and  grated  rind  of  Yl 
lemon;  cool.  Line  pie  plate  with  crust,  prick  the 
bottom  with  a  fork,  or  use  perforated  pie  pan. 
When  crust  is  light  brown  pour  in  the  lemon  mix- 
ture. Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  powdered  sugar;  spread  this  mixture 
over  the  top  for  a  meringue;  return  to  oven  and 
brown  lightly. 

Custard   Pie In    making    custard    pies,    heat    the 

milk  for  the  custard  to  the  boiling  point  before 
adding  to  the  eggs,  and  the  undercrust  will  always 
be  crisp  and  light.  While  pouring  the  milk  into 
the  beaten  eggs,  stir  briskly  and  put  into  the  crust 
while   hot. 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  paste.  Rub  I  tea- 
spoonful flour  with  Yl  CUP  cold  milk  until  smooth; 
then  add  it  to  I  Yl  cupfuls  scalded  milk.  Cook  5 
minutes.  Beat  3  eggs  and  combine  with  Yl  CUP 
sugar,  Y*i  teaspoonful  salt.  Pour  milk  mixture  over 
this,    stirring   briskly,    add    Yl    teaspoonful    flavoring 


237 


238       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


extract,  strain  into  pie  plate.  Bake  slowly.  It  is 
done  when  a  knife  blade  makes  a  clean  cut. 

Lemon  Custard — Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with 
paste,  prick  it  well  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  hot 
oven.  Set  away  to  cool.  Make  a  filling  of  I  Yl  table- 
spoonfuls  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water, 
mix  it  with  2  eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
stir  it  all  into  2  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  When 
thickened  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  grated 
rind  of  one.  When  mixture  has  cooled  pour  it  on 
pie  crust. 

If  spread  on  top  with  a  meringue  brown  it  very 
lightly  in  a  slow  oven.  It  is  also  delicious  served 
with  whipped  cream. 

Cocoanut    Custard Beat    2     eggs    and     Yl     cup 

sugar  together  until  light,  then  add  1  pint  milk, 
Yl  grated  nutmeg  and  I  cup  grated  cocoanut.  Line 
2  pie  dishes  with  paste,  fill  with  mixture  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes. 

Pumpkin  Pie — Mix  I  cup  sifted  pumpkin,  Yl 
teaspoonful  salt,  1  saltspoonful  mace  and  Yl  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon  together;  beat  I  egg  and  mix 
with  2/3  cup  sugar;  pour  Yl  CUP  scalded  milk  and 
Yl  cup  scalded  cream  slowly  into  the  egg  and  sugar 
and  then  combine  with  pumpkin  mixture  and  pour 
into  a  deep  pie  plate  lined  with  paste.  Bake  35  to 
40  minutes.  Squash  may  be  used  instead  of  pump- 
kin. 

A  good  substitute  for  eggs  in  pumpkin  pies  are 
soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  allowing  two  for  each 
pie. 

Cranberry  Pie — Cook  I  Yl  cupfuls  cranberries  in 
Yl  cup  water  and  %  cup  sugar  for  1 0  minutes, 
then  cool.  Line  pie  pan  with  crust,  fill 'with  cran- 
berries, and  place  strips  of  crust  across  the  top. 
Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mince  Pie — Cook  4  lbs.  lean  beef  3  Yl  hours. 
Remove  gristle  and  bone  and  chop  fine  when  cold. 
Add  1  pint  of  the  liquor  to  chopped  meat;  mix 
this  with  I  Yl  pounds  finely  chopped  suet,  4  tea- 
spoonfuls  salt,  2  pounds  sugar,  2  pounds  raisins, 
I  pound  currants,  Yl  pound  shredded  citron,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  3  oranges  and  lemons,  4  tea- 
spoonfuls  cinnamon,  2  teaspoonfuls  mace,  I  tea- 
spoonful  cloves,  I  quart  boiled  cider,  5  quarts 
chopped  apple.  Cook  together  30  minutes.  Seal 
in  jars  and  keep  in  cool  place.  This  makes  8 
quarts  of  mince   meat. 

When  ready  to  use,  make  upper  and  lower  crust, 
fill,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Apple  Tarts — Peel  and  core  apples  and  dice  thin; 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  pile  on  pans 
lined  with  puff  paste  about  '/^  inch  thick;  then  dot 
with  bits  of  butter.  Cover  the  top  with  strips  of 
paste  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  browned. 

Instead  of  the  strips  of  paste,  a  meringue  may 
be  heaped  on  top  and  lightly  browned  in  oven. 
Most  fruit  tarts  may  be  cooked  in  this  way. 


Creamed  Apple  Tart — Line  a  deep  pudding  dish 
with  pastry,  add  3  cups  sliced  apples,  %  cup  brown 
sugar,  and  grated  rind  of  Yl  lemon;  then  cover 
with  paste  and  bake  40  minutes.  Lift  the  crust 
when  done  and  pour  in  2  cups  boiled  custard; 
cover,  and  serve  cold. 

When  whipped  cream  is  used  for  filling,  heap  it 
high  and  do  not  put  cover  on  again. 

Cherry  Tart — Line  a  deep  pie  dish  with  plain 
paste;  turn  a  tiny  cup  upside  down  in  the  middle, 
fill  around  with  carefully  picked  and  washed  cher- 
ries and  add  sugar  to  taste.  Lay  a  wide  strip  of 
paste  around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  cover  and  press 
the  edges  firmly  together  with  a  pastry  jagger. 
Bake  in  hot  oven.  Serve  with  powdered  sugar 
sprinkled  thickly  on  top. 

All  berry  tarts  are  excellent  cooked  in  this  way. 

Jelly  Tarts — Roll  puff  paste  Ya  inch  thick,  cut 
with  fluted  cutter.     Bake,  then  fill  with  jelly  or  jam. 


Almond  Tart — Beat  yolks 
and  lemon  colored,  add  Yl 
gradually,  then  fold  in  the 
beaten  stiff  and  dry;  add  2 
chocolate,  Yl  cup  blanched 
almonds,  Yl  teaspoonfuls  ba 
very  fine  cracker  crumbs  and 
buttered  gem  pans.  When 
and  fill  with  whipped  cream 
ened  and  flavored. 


of  2  eggs  until  thick 
cup    powdered    sugar 

whites  of  the  eggs 
tablespoonfuls   grated 

and    finely    chopped 

king   powder,.  Yl    CUP 

a  little  salt.     Bake  in 

cool,    remove    centers 

that  has  been  sweet- 


Mocha  Tart — Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  I  cup 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  1  cup  flour  that  has  been 
mixed  with  2  scant  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
I  Yl  teaspoonfuls  Mocha  extract  and  then  add  the 
well  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Bake  in  3  layers  in 
hot  oven.  Make  a  filling  of  3  tablespoonfuls  pow- 
dered sugar,  3  teaspoonfuls  Mocha  extract  mixed 
with  1  pint  cream.  Whip  until  stiff  and  spread 
between  layers  and  on  top. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings — Core  and  pare  6  large 
tart  apples.  Divide  pie  crust  into  6  parts  and  roll 
and  shape  each  piece  to  cover  an  apple;  place  an 
apple  on  each  piece,  fill  up  the  center  with  sugar, 
a  little  cinnamon  and  a  lump  of  butter  about  the 
size  of  a  hazelnut.  Draw  the  paste  over  the  apple 
and  press  the  edges  together.  Put  them  in  a  well- 
buttered  baking  pan,  the  rough  side  down  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  Yl  hour.  Serve  hot  with 
a   cold   sauce. 

Peach  Dumplings — Roll  out  pastry  Yl  inch  thick, 
cut  3  inch  rounds,  and  make  a  large  hollow  in  the 
center  with  a  cup,  leaving  just  the  rim  around  the 
edge,  fill  with  fresh  peaches  cut  in  quarters  or 
canned  peaches,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar  on  top 
and  put  in  a  pan.  Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate 
oven;  put  I  pint  boiling  hot  syrup  over  them  10 
minutes  before  removing  from  oven;  use  juice  from 
can,  baste  twice  and  increase  heat  to  glaze. 


CLASS  21— PASTRY— RECIPES 


239 


Charlotte  Russe — Line  a  plain  round  mold  with 
lady  fingers,  putting  them  close  together.  Mix  a 
little  sugar  and  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
with  a  pint  of  cream  and  whip  well,  then  put  in 
hollow  made  by  the  cakes.  Serve  in  mold.  The 
cream  may  be  flavored  with  an  essence  if  desired. 

Cream  Puffs — Boil  1  cup  water  to  which  has 
been  added  \.  4  teaspoonful  salt  and  J/?  cup  butter. 
When  boiling  add  1  cup  flour  stirring  constantly 
until  the  mixture  leaves  the  side  of  the  pan,  then 
remove  from  fire  and  add  4  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  the  mixture  continually.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls into  a  buttered  pan.  Bake  25  minutes  in  mod- 
erate oven.  When  cool  make  a  cut  in  the  top  or 
side  and  fill  with  a  cream  filling. 

Chocolate  Eclairs — Cut  cream  puff  mixture  in 
oblong  pieces   4   inches  long  and    I  Yl    inches  wide 


and  place  on  buttered  sheets  4  inches  apart.  When 
done  cover  with  chocolate  or  vanilla  frosting  and 
let  cool;  then  cut  the  eclairs  on  the  side  and  fill 
with  whipped  cream,  a  custard  or  preserved  fruits. 

Mirlitons Pound    and    sift    6    macaroons,    add    1 

tablespoonful  grated  chocolate  and  2  cups  scalded 
milk.  Let  stand  1  0  minutes,  then  add  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  I  tablespoonful  sugar  and  I  teaspoonful 
vanilla.  Line  patty  tins  with  puff  paste,  fill  with 
mixture  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cheese  Cake — Mix  1  cup  grated  cocoanut  with 
1  cup  milk  curds,  I  cup  cream,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  I 
cup  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  almond  extract  well 
together.  Boil  until  thick,  then  pour  into  tart  tins 
lined  with  puff  paste.      Bake    1 0   minutes. 

Orange  and  lemon  rind,  grated,  can  be  used  in- 
stead of  the  cocoanut;  use  as  much  as  desired. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 
Scraps  or  Memos, 
of  Your  Own) 


240        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


iJlllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIII!  Illlllllllllllllllllllli: 


CLASS  22 


Pu53t 


mas  i 


n3 


=  =  and    PUDDING  SAUCES  =  = 

HllllllllllllllllllNIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII^ 


SAUCES 

Pudding    Sauce Cream    Yl     CUP    butter,    add     I 

cup  sugar,  beat  15  minutes,  add  2  eggs,  beat  to  a 
froth.  Just  before  serving  stir  in  '/£  cup  boiling 
water;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  wine  and  Yl  tea" 
spoonful  vanilla;  beat  to  a   foam  and  serve. 

Apple    Sauce Peel,    core    and    slice    the    apples, 

stew  in  enough  water  to  cover  and  let  cook  until 
they  break  in  pieces.  Add  plenty  of  sugar,  the 
juice  of  lemon  to  taste,  and  the  grated  rind  of 
lemon.      Beat  well  together.      Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Peach  sauce  is  made  the  same  way. 

Cranberry  Sauce — Wash  a  pint  of  cranberries 
thoroughly  and  cook  in  Yl  CUP  water  1 0  minutes, 
then  add  1  cup  sugar  and  cook  1 0  minutes  more. 
Put  through  a  colander  and  pour  into  dish  or  into 
molds. 

Lemon  Sauce — Mix  together  1  cup  sugar,  ]/& 
teaspoon fu]  salt  and  1  tablespoon ful  corn  starch; 
add  1  cup  boiling  water  gradually;  boil  5  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  I 
tablespoonful  butter  and  I  Yl  tablespoonful  lemon 
juice. 

Strawberry    Sauce Beat     I     large    tablespoonful 

butter  to  a  cream.  Add  gradually  I  Yl  cups  pow- 
dered sugar  and  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg.  Beat 
'till  very  light;  add  I  pint  mashed  strawberries  just 
before  serving. 

Fruit   Sauce Cook    peaches,    berries,    prunes    or 

other  friut  and  put  through  a  coarse  sieve.  To 
every  cup  of  this  pulp  add  Yl  cupful  of  water  and 
sugar  to  taste.      Boil  3   minutes,   cool  and  serve. 

This  sauce  is  very  good  served  with  rice,  bread, 
tapioca  or  other  simple  puddings. 

Mint  Jelly   Sauce Beat   well    1    cup    currants    or 

any  tart  jelly,  mix  with  the  juice  of  1  orange  and 
Yl  cup  minced  mint.  Put  away  in  a  cold  place 
before  serving. 

Hard  Sauce Put  Ya   cuP  butter  in  a  warm  bowl 

and  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  Yl  CUP  confectionery 
sugar  gradually  and  flavor  with  Yl  teaspoonful 
vanilla.  Put  in  dish  and  grate  nutmeg  over  it. 
Let  stand  on  ice  and  when  ice  cold  serve  with 
pudding. 

Brandy  Sauce Put  J^  oz-  butter  and  1  table- 
spoonful flour  together  in  a  small  saucepan  and 
put  over  a  very  small  burner,  stir  in  %  of  a  pint 
boiling  water  gradually;  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar 
and  boil  gently  1 0  minutes.  Add  1  wine-glassful 
brandy  just  before  serving. 


Wine  Sauce — Stir  2  oz.  butter  and  I  teaspoonful 
flour  together  over  a  small  flame,  stir  in  slowly  1/3 
pint  milk  until  it  boils.  Add  1  wine-glassful  of 
sherry  before  serving. 

Creamy  Sauce — Cream  '/>  cup  butter  and  2  cups 
powdered  sugar  together,  then  add  Yl  CUP  thick 
cream,  1  well-beaten  egg  and  I  teaspoonful  van- 
illa. If  it  should  separate,  set  it  over  hot  water 
and  stir  until   smooth.      Serve   cold. 

Caramel  or  Browned  Sugar  Sauce — Brown  I  cup 
sugar  and  dissolve  in  Yl  CUP  hot  water.  This  sauce 
or  syrup  is  very  good  served  with  waffles. 

Maple  Sugar  Sauce Boil   together    Yi    lb.    maple 

sugar  with  Yl  CUP  water  'till  it  will  spin.  When 
boiling  hot  put  it  into  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs, 
Yl   cup  thick  cream  and  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

Molasses  Sauce Stir    1    large  tablespoonful  flour 

into  I  cupful  molasses  until  smooth.  Pour  over 
this  1  Yl  cups  boiling  water  stirring  continually. 
Boil  slowly  5  minutes,  then  add  1  tablespoonful 
butter,  1  tablespoonful  vinegar  cider  and  nutmeg 
or  cinnamon  to  taste.  Stir  together  and  just  be- 
fore serving  boil  a  few  minutes. 

Chocolate  Sauce Boil  2  oz.   grated   chocolate  in 

Yl  pint  milk;  beat  2  egg  yolks  with  Yl  CUP  sugar 
and  stir  all  together  until  quite  thick;  flavor  with 
vanilla. 

Egg    Sauce Beat    the    yolks    of    3    eggs    with    3 

tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar  until  creamy.  Just 
before  serving  fold  in  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten 
stiff. 

PUDDINGS 

Rice  Pudding — Wash  1  cup  rice  thoroughly,  mix 
with  Y$  CUP  sugar,  1  quart  milk,  Yl  teaspoonful 
salt  and  Ya  teaspoonful  cinnamon.  Bake  very 
slowly  3  or  4  hours  in  a  well-buttered  pudding  dish. 
Keep  covered  until  the  last  I  5  minutes  when  pud- 
ding may  be  browned  on  top.  Stir  twice  during 
the  first  hour.  Grated  lemon  rind  can  be  used  in- 
stead of  the  cinnamon.      Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Stewed  fruit,  preserves  or  custard  is  very  nice 
served  with  this  pudding. 

A  meringue  made  of  whites  of  eggs  and  pow- 
dered sugar  can  be  piled  on  top  when  pudding  is 
done;  put  back  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to 
brown. 

Tapioca  Pudding  with  Fruit — Boil  I  quart  water 
in  a  2  quart  pan.  Add  a  small  stick  of  cinnamon, 
pinch  of  salt  and  1  cup  sugar.  While  this  is  boil- 
ing stir  in  rapidly   3   tablespoonfuls  tapioca.      Cook 


241 


242       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


until  clear  or  transparent.  Core,  peel  and  slice  as 
many  apples  as  desired,  put  in  pan  and  bake  J/J 
hour.      Serve  with  cream. 

Peaches,  pineapples  or  any  other  fruit  may  be 
substituted  for  the  apples. 

Bread  Pudding — Cut  I  loaf  bread  in  thin  slices. 
Put  a  slice  on  bottom  of  pudding  dish,  dot  with 
butter,  then  a  sprinkling  of  raisins,  and  so  on  until 
all  the  bread  is  used.  Add  4  eggs  and  J/J  CUP 
sugar  beaten  light,  then  add  gradually  I  pint  milk, 
and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Let  this  stand  1 5 
minutes,  then  bake  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 
Serve  cold  with  cream  sauce. 

Cottage  Pudding — Mix  J/J  teaspoonful  salt  with 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  add  I  egg  well 
beaten,  then  Ya  cuP  sugar  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter  and  stir  in  2  cupfuls  pastry  flour. 
Bake  J/J  hour  in  shallow  dish.  Serve  with  lemon 
or  wine  sauce. 

Chocolate  Pudding — Melt  2  oz.  sweet  chocolate 
and  stir  in  I  quart  hot  milk;  let  mixture  cool.  When 
nearly  cool  add  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  and  4  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar;  mix  well.  Bake  in  earthen  dish 
set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  for  20  minutes.  Then 
make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  6  eggs  and  1 2 
tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar;  pile  on  pudding 
and  let  brown  for  a  few  minutes. 

Chocolate  Pudding  with  Stale  Bread — Take  % 
of  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  and  pour  I  pint  scald- 
ing milk  over  it,  and  in  this  melt  3  squares  of 
grated  chocolate.  When  cool  stir  in  2  eggs,  sea- 
son with  a  pinch  of  salt,  %  cupful  sugar  and  1 
teaspoonful  vanilla,  and  last  of  all  stir  in  4  table- 
spoonfuls cold   milk.      Bake    1    hour,   stirring  twice. 

Caramel  Apples  with  Raisins — Pare,  core  and 
halve  6  tart  apples  and  place  in  broad  saucepan. 
Cover  over  with  J/J  CUP  raisins  and  I  cup  light 
brown  sugar;  dot  with  butter,  using  about  2  table- 
spoonfuls, add  1  /3  cup  water  and  stew  gently  un- 
til apples  are  tender  and  rich  caramel  is  formed  of 
the  sugar  and  butter. 

Cheese  Pudding  (Farmers'  Bulletin  565,  on 
CORN  MEAL,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agriculture — One  quart 
boiling  water,  I  tablespoonful  salt,  J/J  CUP  milk,  J/J 
pound  yellow  corn   meal,    J/J   pound   cheese. 

Into  the  boiling,  salted  water  pour  the  corn  meal 
slowly,  stirring  constantly,  and  allow  to  boil  1 0 
minutes;  then  add  most  of  the  cheese  and  cook  10 
minutes  more,  or  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Add 
J/J  cup  of  milk  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Pour  into 
a  greased  baking  dish.  Brown  in  the  oven.  This 
dish  is  improved  by  grating  a  little  hard  cheese 
over  the  top  just  before  it  is  baked. 

This  pudding  can  be  cut  into  slices  when  cold 
and  fried. 

This  serves  4  to  6  people. 

Suet  Pudding — Mix  1  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  1 
cup    milk,    2    cups    seeded    raisins,     I     cup    molasses, 


2  cups  flour,  I  cup  currants,  J/4  cup  each  citron, 
lemon  and  orange  peel,  and  I  teaspoonful  each 
soda,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Steam  2 
hours.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Corn  Meal  and  Fig  Pudding    (Farmers'   Bulletin 

565,  on  CORN  MEAL,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agriculture) 

One  cup  corn  meal,  1  cup  molasses,  6  cups  milk 
(or  4  of  milk  and  2  of  cream),  I  cup  finely 
chopped  figs,  2  eggs,    1    teaspoonful  salt. 

Cook  the  corn  meal  with  4  cups  of  the  milk,  add 
the  molasses,  figs  and  salt.  When  the  mixture  is 
cool,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Pour  into  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  3  hours  or  more.  When  partly  cooked  add  the 
remainder  of  the  milk  without  stirring  the  pudding. 

This  serves  8  or   1 0  people. 

Corn  Meal  and  Apple  Pudding — For  the  figs  in 
the  above  recipe  substitute  a  pint  of  finely  sliced 
or  chopped  sweet  apples. 

Plum  Pudding — Mix  J/^  lb.  suet  chopped  fine, 
J'4  lb.  currants,  J/4  lb.  seeded  raisins  and  J/4  lb. 
citron  or  orange  peel  cut  small;  then  add  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon,  J/£  lb.  sugar,  J/J  teaspoonful  cin- 
namon, J4  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  nutmeg  and 
ginger,  and  1/8  lb.  flour,  J4  M>.  stale  bread  crumbs 
and  3,  "well  beaten  eggs.  Put  into  well  greased 
bowls  or  pudding  molds  and  steam  or  boil  8 
hours.  These  puddings  will  keep  a  year,  but  should 
be  boiled  1  hour  before  serving.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 

Fruit  Pudding Mix   thoroughly    I    cup    chopped 

raisins,  2/3  cup  butter,  I  cup  milk,  2/3  cup  mo- 
lasses, a  little  salt,  1  teaspoonful  soda  and  4  cups 
pastry  flour.  Steam  3  hours.  Serve  with  a  sweet 
sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

Apple  Charlotte — Peel,  core  and  stew  6  or  8 
cooking  apples  with  sugar  to  sweeten  and  grated 
rind  of  2  lemons.  Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  about 
J/4  of  an  inch  thick,  into  small  rounds;  fry  them  in 
hot  butter  to  a  light  brown,  then  line  a  buttered 
mold  with  them.  When  apples  are  soft  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  and  pour  into  the  mold  and  cover 
with  a  round  of  the  fried  bread.  Bake  40  minutes 
in  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  cream  or  whipped 
cream. 

Apple    Strudel Put     1     well    beaten    egg    into    a 

cup,  add  J/4  teaspoonful  salt  and  J/J  tablespoonful 
butter  and  enough  warm  water  to  fill  the  cup. 
When  the  butter  is  melted  pour  the  contents  into 
a  mixing  bowl;  add  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough, 
knead  well.  Roll  out  pieces  of  the  dough  as  thin 
as  paper,  cover  with  a  layer  of  peeled,  sliced 
apples,  seedless  raisins,  chopped  blanched  almonds 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Roll  up  carefully  and  press  the  edges  tightly  to- 
gether. Put  into  a  well-buttered  round  baking  pan. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  J/J  hour  or  until 
nicely  browned.      Serve  hot  or   cold. 


CLASS  22— PUDDINGS— RECIPES 


24^ 


Prune  Souffle — Wash  thoroughly  1  lb.  prunes 
and  soak  over  night  in  warm  water,  then  add  J/2 
cup  sugar  and  let  simmer  slowly  until  soft  and 
tender;  stone  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Crack  the 
pits,  chop  kernels  and  add  to  prune  pulp.  Beat 
the  whites  of  3  eggs  until  stiff,  fold  in  and  place 
in  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
20  minutes  or  until  puffed  up.  Serve  with  whipped 
or  plain  cream. 

Apricot  Souffle Take    canned    apricots   and   rub 

through  a  sieve;  use  a  little  of  the  syrup  so  as  not 
to  make  puree  too  thick.  Dissolve  1  tablespoonful 
gelatine  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  syrup  and  add 
to  the  puree;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice, 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and 
J/2  cup  whipped  cream.  Put  into  dainty  dishes 
and  when  set  place  half  an  apricot  on  top  of  each 
dish. 


Peach   Souffle Put    2    tablespoonfuls   butter   and 

two  tablespoonfuls  flour  together  in  a  saucepan, 
cook  until  smooth,  not  browned;  then  add  1  J/j  cups 
milk,  stir  until  thick  and  add  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
and  2  cups  mashed  peaches.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
3  eggs,  add  to  mixture  and  then  fold  in  the  whites 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  deep  dish  35  minutes.  Serve 
hot  with  hard  sauce. 

Brown  Betty Put  a  layer  of  stale  bread  crumbs 

into  a  well-buttered  dish,  then  a  layer  of  pared, 
cored  and  thinly  sliced  apples,  sprinkle  with  plenty 
of  sugar,  a  grating  of  nutmeg  and  dot  with  butter. 
Repeat  this  until  dish  is  full,  finishing  with  buttered 
crumbs  and  sugar.  Bake  brown.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 

Peach    Betty    is    made    in    this    way,    substituting 
peaches  for  the  apples. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


244        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


ijiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiif 


CLASS  23 


=      ^«5?      = 


l|f    1    Cu5tar<35  and  Creams 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH 


Custards Allowing   4   cups   milk   to   each   quart; 

use  to  1  cup  milk,  I  egg,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
Ya  teaspoonful  flavoring,  pinch  salt,  '/£  teaspoonful 
cornstarch.      This   makes  a   rich   custard. 

Boiled    Custard Scald     1     quart    milk    in    double 

boiler,  stir  in  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  mixed  with 
1  tablespoonful  cold  water.  Cook  1 0  minutes, 
add  3  or  4  eggs  beaten  with  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
stir  and  cook  until  custard  will  coat  the  spoon. 
Remove  at  once,  set  in  cold  "water,  stir  to  prevent 
thin  skin  forming  on  top.  When  cooling  add 
vanilla  or  almond  flavoring  1  teaspoonful.  Strain 
into  a  serving  dish.  This  may  be  made  the  basis 
for  many  custard  desserts. 

Cocoanut  Custard Use    1    cup   grated   cocoanut, 

add  to  the  above  custard  after  straining. 

Coffee   Custard To   plain   boiled   custard   add    1 

cup  strained,  strong  coffee.  Stir  until  blended, 
then  fill  custard  cups  and  put  them  in  shallow  pan 
surrounded  with  boiling  "water  for  few  minutes. 
Cool  and  serve  sprinkled  with   ground  nuts. 

Chocolate  Custard — 1.  Heat  3  oz.  grated  choco- 
late in  1  cup  milk  'till  dissolved.  Add  3  cups  more 
of  milk,  boil  up  once.  Simmer  very  slowly  for  5 
minutes,  sweeten  with  3  or  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
and  stir  while  adding  slowly  3  beaten  eggs.  Do  not 
boil,  but  keep  hot,  stirring  until  custard  thickens. 
When  cold  serve  with  cream. 

2.  Melt  1  to  3  oz.  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add 
this  to   a  plain    1    quart  custard  before  straining. 

Canned  Milk  Custard — Heat  %  CUP  canned 
milk  with  1  Yl  cups  water.  Beat  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  Yl  cup  sugar,  pinch  salt.  Add  this  slowly 
to  the  hot  milk,  stirring.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoon- 
ful vanilla.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  custard 
masks  the  spoon.  Serve  with  whipped  whites  of 
the   eggs   sweetened   and   spread   on   top. 

Meringue  for  Custards — Beat  a  long  time,  until 
fine  and  dry,  the  white  of  1  egg  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful very  cold  water.  The  water  doubles  the  quan- 
tity of  the  meringue  and  makes  it  more  tender. 
Drop  this,  when  stiff,  onto  cooled  custard,  and 
brown  quickly  in  oven;  or,  spread  meringue  on  a 
small  clean  board,  brown  in  oven,  remove  it  with 
a  pancake  turner  to  the  custard. 

Fruit  with  Tapioca  Sauce — Soak  I  tablespoonful 
tapioca,  add  2  cups  hot  milk.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  I  5  minutes.  Stir  in  2  beaten  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls sugar,  pinch  salt.  When  thick  flavor 
with  vanilla  and  chill.  Pour  this  sauce  over  cooked 
fruit  and  top  with  whipped  cream. 


Apple  Dessert  with  Custard  Sauce — Pare,  halve, 
and  core,  tart  apples  or  peaches;  make  a  syrup  of 
2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  water,  boil  1  0  minutes.  Add 
apples,  simmer  until  tender.  Take  apples  out  with 
a  strainer  spoon  and  lay  in  a  dish.  Add  water  to 
syrup  to  make  2  cups,  flavor  with  lemon,  vanilla, 
or  almond  extract.  Dissolve  1  tablespoonful  gela- 
tine in  cold  water,  stir  this  into  the  syrup  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  ground  nuts.  Pour  this  jelly  over 
the  apples  and  chill.  When  firm,  turn  out  of 
mold  and  serve  with  soft  custard   sauce. 

Caramel  Custard — Put  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
in  a  smooth  saucepan,  stir  constantly  over  hot  fire 
until  of  the  color  and  consistency  of  maple  syrup. 
Pour  2/3  cup  hot  milk  on  the  sugar  a  little  at  a 
time  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  1  beaten  egg, 
pinch  salt,  1  teaspoonful  flavoring  vanilla.  Pour 
into  mold,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake.  Serve 
with  the  following  sauce: 

Melt  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar  in  pan  over  fire, 
when  brown  add  3  tablespoonfuls  water.  Cook  5 
minutes,   cool  and  pour  over  caramel   custard. 

Baked  Vanilla  Custard — For  a  large  mold  of  cus- 
tard use  !  quart  milk,  Yl  cup  sugar,  Y»  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  6  beaten  eggs,  I  teaspoonful  vanilla.  For 
a  smaller  custard  take  3  cups  milk,  1  /3  cup  sugar, 
Ya  teaspoonful  salt,  3  eggs  beaten,  Yl  teaspoonful 
vanilla.  Scald  milk,  add  eggs,  sugar,  salt.  Mix 
well,  strain,  add  vanilla.  Bake  in  one  large  but- 
tered mold  or  several  small  ones.  Set  in  pan  of 
hot  water  in  moderate  oven;  should  the  water  boil 
during  the  baking  the  custard  will  be  of  a  porous 
consistency. 

Baked     Custard     with     Canned     Milk Dilute      1 

cupful  of  canned  milk  with  equal  amount  of 
water.  Mix  in  2  beaten  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls 
sugar.  Pour  this  into  a  buttered  pan,  grate  nut- 
meg over  top,  and  set  in  a  large  pan  of  boiling 
water.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  As  soon  as  a 
silver  knife  blade  inserted  into  the  custard  comes 
out  clean,  the  dish  is  done. 

Orange  Custard — Shred  pulp  of  sweet  oranges 
or  any  fresh  fruit.  Pile  in  dish,  sprinkle  sugar 
through,  and  pour  a  thick  orange  flavored  custard 
over  the  fruit. 

Custard   Sauce Make    a   thin    custard    of    I    pint 

milk,  1  egg,  Ya  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon- 
ful vanilla,  almond  or  orange  extract.  Chill  and 
serve  poured  over  fruits  or  desserts  requiring  plain 
cream.  This  is  not  as  expensive  as  cream  and  is 
a    delicious   substitute. 


245 


246       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Melted  Ice  Cream — All  left  over  frozen  desserts 
should  be  removed  from  the  freezer  before  they 
melt.  Instead  of  throwing  away  this  left  over,  add 
a  little  dissolved  gelatine  and  chill  in  ice  box. 
Melted  ice  cream  may  also  be  used  in  cakes  or 
cookies  by  leaving  out  the  milk  in  the  cake  recipe 
and    lessening  the   quantity   of  sugar  and  butter. 

Party  Bavarian  Cream — One  pint  cream  should 
make  about  2  quarts  when  whipped.  Mix  the 
cream  drained  from  the  whip  with  milk  to  make 
I  pint.  Cook  in  double  boiler  with  yolks  4  eggs, 
I  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  flavoring;  stir  until  it 
thickens,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  gelatine,  dissolved 
in  Yl  cup  boiling  water.  Pour  out  into  a  dish  set 
in  cold  water,  as  it  thickens  fold  in  the  whipped 
cream  as  for  an  omelet.  If  other  flavorings  are  to 
be  used  add  in  the  following  proportions: 

For  Coffee  Bavarian  Cream:  add  I  cup  clear, 
strong   coffee. 

For  Chocolate  Cream  add  1  ounce  melted  choco- 
late. 

Cocoa  Cream — To  Yl  cup  cocoa  add  4  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  2  beaten  egg  yolks,  1  cup  cream, 
small  piece  of  cinnamon  stick.  Cook  in  double 
boiler,  when  begins  to  thicken  add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls gelatine  dissolved  in  J4  cup  boiling  water,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  I '/2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  whipped 
whites  of  2  eggs.  When  cool  add  2'/2  cups 
whipped  cream.  Strain  into  a  wet  ring  mold  and 
chill. 

Spanish  Cream — Dissolve  Yl  bo*  gelatine  in  1 
quart  scalding  milk.  Beat  lightly  yolks  3  eggs,  1 
cup  sugar.  Add  this  to  the  hot  milk,  stir  until 
thickens.  Do  not  allow  it  to  boil  or  it  will  curdle. 
Remove  from  fire,  strain,  flavor.  Pour  in  hot 
mold  set  aside  in  pan  of  cold  water  to  harden. 

Bavarian  Fruit  Cream — Mash  fine,  3  pints  ber- 
ries, or  other  fruit,  strain  the  juice,  add  1  cup 
sugar,  Yl  box  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water  and 
dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling  water.  Add  1  pint 
cream  whipped  stiff.      Pour  into   mold  and  set. 

If  fresh  peaches,  etc.,  are  used,  add  to  the  above 
1    pint  of  sifted  pulp  in  place  of    1    pint  milk. 

If  almonds  or  any  nuts  are  used,  add  1  pint 
of  blanched  nuts  ground  to  a  paste. 

Orange  Gelatine  Cream — Make  a  custard  of 
eggs,  cream  or  rich  milk,  sugar;  add  gelatine  and 
orange  juice.      Cool  and  fold  in  whipped  cream. 

Dried  Fruit  Cream  (made  with  canned  milk) — 
Wash  1  lb.  dried  apricots  or  any  dried  fruit,  soak 
over  night  in  water  to  cover.  Stew  in  the  same 
water.  When  tender  drain  off  the  juice  and  to  it 
add  water  to  make  1  pint.  Cook  5  minutes  with 
1  cup  sugar  until  a  thick  syrup.  Put  apricots 
through  a  sieve  and  pour  on  enough  syrup  to 
make    a    soft    pulp    with    the    fruit.       Whip    canned 


milk  to  2  cups,  add  to  the  fruit  pulp.  Serve  with 
cold  whipped,  canned  milk  flavored  with  a  little 
fruit  juice  or  extract. 

Prune  Whip — I.  Make  a  creamy  custard  of  I 
cup  milk,  I  tablespoonful  sugar,  pinch  salt,  beaten 
yolk  of  1  egg.  Press  prunes  through  sieve.  Take 
several  tablespoonfuls  fruit  pulp,  fold  it  into  the 
custard  with  stiff  white  of  egg.  Add  2  tablespoon- 
fuls sugar  and  few  drops  lemon  juice.  Serve  at 
once. 

2.  Soak  2  tablespoonfuls  gelatine  30  minutes  in 
Yl  cup  cold  water.  Stew  slowly  1  pint  prunes  in 
pint  water  30  minutes,  remove  seeds.  Combine 
gelatine,  prunes,  Yl  CUP  sugar,  1  pint  boiling  water. 
Beat  slowly  and  hard  until  prunes  are  pulp.  Pour 
into  molds  and  harden. 

3.  Steam  '4  lb.  dried,  soaked  prunes  or  dried 
fruit,  seed  and  chop  pulp  fine.  Beat  very  stiff  the 
whites  of  4  eggs.  Beat  in  I  cup  sugar  and  grad- 
ually the  fruit.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish. 
Bake  very  slowly  and  carefully  to  prevent  whip 
from  falling.  When  light  and  firm,  serve  at  once 
with  cream. 

Canned  Fruit  Sponge Drain   syrup   from    I    can 

pineapple,  or  peaches,  apricots,  pears.  To  2  cups 
syrup  add  juice  of  2  oranges,  1  lemon,  Yl  CUP 
sugar.  Heat  this.  Soak  2  tablespoonfuls  gelatine 
in  I  cup  cold  water,  add  to  the  hot  syrup,  mix 
well  and  pour  into  a  wet  mold  set  in  cold  water. 
When    it    thickens   add    the    dry   whipped    whites    of 

3  eggs.  Beat  until  stiff.  Drop  into  individual 
dishes,  garnish  the  whip  with  pieces  of  canned 
fruit. 

Lemon  Cornstarch  Cream — Boil  2  cups  water, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  I  lemon,  2  tablespoonfuls 
corn  starch  wet  with  cold  water.  As  this  thickens 
stir  in  2/3  cup  sugar,  beaten  yolks  3  eggs.  Re- 
move from  fire,  add  the  stiff  whites.  If  it  seems 
thicker  than  soft  custard  add  sweet  orange  juice. 

Lemon  Jelly Soak    I    envelope  gelatine  in    1    cup 

cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Dissolve  with  2  cups 
boiling  water.  Add  *4  cup  sugar  and  stir  until 
dissolved  and  cool.  Add  Yl  cup  lemon  juice  and 
strain.  This  may  be  strained  into  a  wet  mold  over 
a  quantity  of  shredded  fruit  or  fruit  pulp.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

Fruit    Sago Use    the    juice    of    berries,     grapes, 

oranges,  pineapples  or  any  fruit.  To  3  cups  fruit 
juice   add    I    cup   water.      Heat,    bring   to   boil,    add 

4  heaping  tablespoonfuls  well-washed  sago.  Stir 
until  it  thickens  and  is  clear,  about  1 5  minutes. 
Sweeten  if  necessary  and  fill  jelly  glasses. 

Farina  Jelly  Cream — Heat  I  pint  milk  and  I 
tablespoonful  farina  over  slow  fire,  stirring  until 
farina  softens  and  thickens  the  milk.  Soak  2  table- 
spoonfuls gelatine  5  minutes  in  Yl  CUP  cold  water. 
Stir    gelatine    into    farina    and    milk,     mixing    well. 


CLASS  23— CUSTARDS  AND  CREAMS— RECIPES 


247 


Add  Ya  cuP  powdered  or  granulated  sugar,  stir, 
set  off  to  cool.  As  it  thickens  fold  in  I  quart, 
whipped  cream  until  mixture  is  smooth  and  light. 
Flavor  with  I  tablespoonful  orange  juice,  or  1 
teaspoonful  vanilla,  or  Yl  cup  sherry.  Turn  into 
molds  and   chill. 

2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  and  floured  raisins, 
figs  or  dates  may  be  added  to  the  scalded  milk  and 
farina. 

Blanc  Mange — 1.  With  Irish  Moss:  Wash  I  cup 
Irish  moss  in  warm  water.  Put  in  double  boiler 
with  I  quart  sweet  milk.  Boil  till  it  thickens  when 
dropped  on  a  cold  plate.  Add  pinch  salt,  strain 
carefully,  add  any  flavoring  desired.  Turn  into  a 
cold  wet  mold. 

2.  With  Sea  Moss  Farina — Use  1  teaspoonful 
to    1    quart  milk.      Heat  slowly,    stir,   cool. 


3.  With    Gelatine Soak    Yl    DOX    or    '    envelope 

gelatine  in  cold  water,  5  minutes.  Boil  I  quart 
milk,  2/3  cup  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  flavoring  choco- 
late or  orange.  After  5  minutes  stir  in  the  gela- 
tine, add  vanilla  last  and  pour  into  mold. 

4.  With    Cornstarch Dissolve    2    tablespoonfuls 

cornstarch  in  cold  water.  Add  I  quart  milk  and 
cook  in  double  boiler  1  0  minutes,  to  overcome  the 
raw  cornstarch  flavor.  Stir  often,  add  Yl  CUP 
sugar,  Ya  teaspoonful  salt,  2  beaten  eggs.  Cook 
one  minute  stirring;  add  I  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Serve   cold. 

The  eggs  may  be  omitted  and  I  oz.  melted 
chocolate  added,  or  served  with  grated  nutmeg  and 
whipped  cream  over  it. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


248        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


-niiimii! mimiiiiimmiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiniiiiiiiii! mini iiiniiiiiii  lilimill nimtf^ 

I  n  I  Ice  Creams  and  Ices   1  n  1 


|  |  CLASS  24  |  | 

iFiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii? 

Ice  cream  is  one  of  the  most  nutritious   of  desserts  and  easy   of  digestion. 

The  term  "ice  cream"  covers  a  large  number  of  mixtures  of  different  food 
value.  Pure  plain  ice  cream  without  eggs  or  fruit  contains  a  high  percentage  of 
fat  and  sugar,  but  low  in  protein,  while  some  so-called  ice  creams  have  no  milk 
or  sugar  in  them.  If  the  housewife  would  know  what  proportion  of  fat,  sugar  or 
protein  she  is  serving  her  family  in  her  iced  desserts,  they  would  be  made  at  home; 
and  because  of  the  large  variety  of  frozen  dishes  which  is  limited  only  by  the  imag- 
ination, the  food  contents  of  her  dessert  may  be  selected  in  relation  to  that  of  the 
meal  with  which  it  is  to  be  served. 

When  made  at  home  ice  cream  is  more  economical  than  when  bought  from 
a  caterer,  and  the  housewife  can  be  sure  also  of  the  purity  and  cleanliness  of  the 
ingredients. 

A  freezer  of  standard  make  and  of  simple  design,  together  with  the  habit  of  fol- 
lowing a  few  simple  rules  will  greatly  lessen  the  trouble  of  frozen  desserts.  Have  the  freezer 
can  and  the  mixture  to  go  in  it  cold;  the  ice  crushed  and  mixed  with  coarse  salt  to  the  pro- 
portion of  one  salt  to  two  of  ice.  Pour  cold  mixture  into  cold  can,  cover  tightly,  adjust 
can  in  freezer,  pack  around  the  sides  with  ice  and  salt.  If  freezer  is  packed  J/£  hour  be- 
fore mixture  is  put  in,  the  can  is  ice  cold  and  the  freezing  is  much  speedier.  Turn  crank 
constantly  until  cream  is  nearly  frozen.  Put  in  any  fruit  or  extra  flavoring,  as  grapefruit. 
Have  the  fruit  crushed  and  stir  in  well.  Cover  can,  finish  freezing.  Remove  dasher,  pack 
ice  cream  with  a  spoon,  cover.  Add  extra  ice,  draw  water  off,  replug,  cover  freezer  with 
newspaper  and  set  aside  until  time  to  serve. 

When  ready  to  clean  freezer,  wash  the  can  and  dasher  with  boiling  soapy  water; 
rinse  in  hot  water  adding  1  teasp.  borax.  Dry  thoroughly,  air,  and  put  away  from  dust 
until  ready  to  use  again. 

RECIPES 

Plain  Ice  Cream — I  qt.  of  ice  cream  swells  in  Frozen  Custard — Scald  I  qt.  milk  in  double 
freezing  to  about  1  Yl  Qts.j  I  tbsp.  of  extract  will  boiler.  Mix  1  cup  sugar,  I  teasp.  flour  or  corn- 
flavor    I    qt.  of  mixture.  starch,    Ya    teasp.    salt.       Add    scalded    milk    slowly. 

Mix    I    pint   cream,    I    pint   milk,    I    teacup   sugar,  Cook,    stirring    for     1 5    minutes.       Mix    into    this    2 

1    tbsp.    good  vanilla.      Freeze.  well  beaten   eggs.      Stir    5   minutes.      Remove   from 

Vanilla    with    Whipped    Cream-Whip    2/3    pt.  fi".    "><>'•      Add    1    pt.    cream,    V/l    tbsp.    flavoring 

»„•       i  •  ,  •,,        •  i     •  /-,  and  freeze, 

cream.       Mix    I    pt.    rich  milk   with    Mi    pt.    cream,                     .              ,        ,                  ,           ,            ,    _                    ,          , 

,      ,                  .„  ,_„  ,      ,              i  ■        .        i                     A    good   substitute   for   almond    Havoring  for   the 

I    tbsp.    vanilla.  When  partly    frozen    beat    in    the                                                      .                ,      .                    ,_,     ,                   . 

,  .  ,  .  country    woman    is    peach    leaves.       Wash    several 

whipped    cream.       freeze    fast    tor    a    few    minutes.  .  .  .      .  .  .  .  _ 

_                   ,     ,  ,  ,    ,                  ,    „„  leaves    and    cook    in    with    the    mixture.       Kemove 


Remove  dasher,  pack,  and  let  stand  30  minutes. 
Serve  plain  or  with  crushed  and  sweetened  fresh 
fruit.  Maple    Cream — Make    a    cu3tard    as    in    Frozen 


leaves    before    freezing. 


Custard  using  I  cupful  maple  syrup  instead  of  the 
sugar  and  flavoring.  I  cupful  of  honey  added  to 
plain  custard  without  sugar,  together  with  Mar- 
aschino cherries  makes  a  novel  flavored  ice  cream. 


Frozen  Canned  Milk — Canned  milk  of  the  best 
brands  makes  a  rich  smooth  ice  cream.  Simmer 
for  5  minutes  2  cups  canned  milk,  I  Yl  cups  sugar. 
Cool,  add  2  cups  more  of  milk  mixed  with  I  cup 
water,     1  Yl    tbsp.    vanilla.      Freeze.      Pack.      Serve  Frozen   Cherry — A    light    custard   is   a   compara- 

with  fruit  sauce  or  maple  or  chocolate  sauce.  tively    economical    ice    cream    and    may    offset    the 

249 


250       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


expense  of  the  candied  cherries  in  this  recipe: 
Scald  2  qts.  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  pinch  salt,  I 
tbsp.  cornstarch,  3  beaten  eggs.  Stir  constantly 
until  cooked  smooth  and  thick  enough  to  coat  the 
spoon.  Cool,  add  2  tbsp.  vanilla,  or  I  tbsp.  vanilla, 
and  I  tbsp.  cherry  extract.  Freeze  until  nearly 
done,  remove  dasher;  stir  in  2  cups  minced  candied 
cherries.  Pack  and  set  aside  Yl  hour  to  "ripen." 
Serve  on  St.  Valentines  with  tiny  heart-shaped  pink 
cakes.  This  recipe  will  make  about  2  Yl  I'3-  of 
ice    cream. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream — 1.  Make  good  fresh  coffee, 
2  tbsp.  in  I  Yl  C"P  boiling  water.  Boil  up  3  times, 
settle,  strain  off  I  full  cup.  Combine  with  3  cups 
milk  in  double  boiler.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  pinch 
salt.  Beat  these  into  the  milk  and  coffee;  add  I 
cup  sugar.  Stir  until  like  custard,  cool,  add  1  Yl 
cups  cream.  Freeze  and  serve  with  frosted  ginger 
bread,  sweet  chocolate  doughnuts,  sponge  cake  or 
light   wafers. 

2.  Boil  1  cup  water,  I  cup  sugar  for  5  minutes. 
Pour  this  syrup  over  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs, 
stirring  well;  cool,  add  I  cup  fresh  strong  coffee 
cold.  Blend  into  the  whole  1  Yl  CUP  whipped 
cream.  Pour  into  mold,  cover.  Pack  in  ice  for 
several   hours. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream — To  a  plain  vanilla  ice 
cream  recipe  add  grated  or  melted  chocolate  to 
the  proportions  of  I  tbsp.  to  every  qt.  of  milk. 
It  is  best  boiled  in  a  little  water  5  minutes  before 
adding  to  the  milk.  Add  1  teasp.  cinnamon  to  the 
whole  or  serve  with   cinnamon  sauce. 

Cinnamon   Sauce Dissolve    3    cups 'sugar   in    % 

cup  water,  add  Yl  teasp.  cinnamon  extract  or  2 
teasp.  ground  cinnamon.  Boil  gently  2  minutes. 
Cool;    serve    on    chocolate    ice    cream. 

Caramel  Sauce — Melt  2  cups  granulated  sugar 
in  pan  over  a  slow  fire.  When  light  brown  stir 
in  gradually  Yl  CUP  water,  Ya  cup  chopped  nuts. 
Stir  1  minute,  cool.  Pour  over  individual  dishes 
of  ice  cream. 

Chocolate  Sauce — Boil  3  minutes  1  cup  water, 
I  cup  vinegar,  2  tbsp.  corn  syrup.  Add  2  tbsp. 
melted   chocolate.      Serve  on   ice  cream. 

Nut  Creams — Almonds,  pistachio,  filberts,  wal- 
nuts, pecans,  should  be  blanched  by  directions 
under  "Nuts  and  Sandwiches."  Blanch,  pound  fine 
and  either  simmer  in  the  milk  of  the  recipe  chosen, 
or  add  at  the  same  time  with  the  flavoring,  or 
sprinkle  on  the  syrup,  or  in  each  dish  of  frozen 
creams. 

Peach  or  Strawberry  Ice  Cream — Use  double 
boiler.  Scald  I  pt.  milk,  add  pinch  of  salt,  2  cups 
sugar,  then  2  cups  cream,  cool,  add  flavoring. 
If  crushed  peaches  are  to  be  used,  add  Yl  teasp. 
Maraschino  or  almond  extract;  if  strawberries,  add 


I  teasp.  strawberry  extract  or  2  tbsp.  juice.  Freeze 
half  done,  then  stir  in  2  cupfuls  crushed  fresh 
peaches  or  strawberries,  or  preserved  chopped 
fruit.      Finish  freezing. 

Peppermint  Whip — Make  a  syrup  of  I  cup 
sugar,  Yl  CUP  water,  Yl  teasp.  peppermint  extract. 
Simmer  3  minutes,  cool,  add  2  cups  milk.  Whip 
I  pt.  cream,  and  2  egg  whites,  pinch  of  salt.  Com- 
bine these  two.  Pour  the  peppermint  syrup  slowly 
into  the  eggs  and  cream,  beating  constantly. 
Freeze;  serve  with  angel  food  cake  or  white  cake. 

Gelatine  Ice  Cream — When  the  ice  cream  is  to 
be  served  in  a  fancy  form  it  will  hold  its  shape 
better  and  will  not  melt  so  soon  if  a  little  gelatine 
is  added  to  the   recipe  desired. 

Soak  !  teasp.  gelatine  in  2  tbsp.  cold  milk. 
Scald  1  qt.  milk,  I  cup  sugar,  1  pinch  salt.  Pour 
this  over  mixture,  strain,  cool;  add  1  tbsp.  vanilla, 
1    pint    cream    plain    or   whipped.       Freeze. 

Frozen  Pudding — This  may  be  prepared  with 
the  recipe  of  Gelatine  Ice  Cream  as  a  foundation, 
using  extra,  2  eggs  to  each  qt.  Make  the  custard 
of  eggs  and  milk,  pour  it  over  the  gelatine,  freeze. 
When  half  frozen  add  wines  or  other  flavorings, 
nuts  -or  fruits,  preserved  or  candied  fruit,  ginger, 
macaroons  or  cake  crumbs.  If  the  pudding  is  to 
be  poured  into  a  mold  and  packed  in  ice,  combine 
the  fruits  or  flavorings  with  the  custard  and  gela- 
tine. 

Grape  Jelly  Pudding — Make  1  qt.  rich  plain  ice 
cream,  freeze  soft,  stir  in  Yl  CUP  coarsely  ground 
nuts,  Yl  CUP  SraPe  jelly,  Yl  CUP  powdered  stale 
cake.       Freeze,    serve,    sprinkled   with   nuts. 

A  Macaroon  Ice Boil    I    cup  water,    1    cup  sugar, 

together  until  it  strings  from  the  spoon.  Beat  3 
eggs.  Beat  a  few  drops  of  hot  syrup  at  a  time 
into  the  eggs  until  all  is  used.  Stir  in  gradually 
2  cups  milk  in  which  1  teasp.  gelatine  has  been 
dissolved.  Add  1  Yl  teasp.  vanilla.  Stir  in  1  cup 
whipped  cream,  1  doz.  dry  pounded  macaroons. 
Put  the  pudding  into  a  mold,   pack  in  ice  6   hours. 

Pineapple  Pudding — I.  Line  a  2  qt.  mold  with 
slices  of  canned  pineapple.  Heat  together  1  cup 
pineapple  juice,  I  cup  sugar,  3  beaten  egg  yolks. 
Stir  till  smooth;  add  I  cup  chopped  pineapple,  Yl 
cup  minced  shredded  cocoanut.  Fold  in  2  cups 
of  cream  whipped.  Pour  into  mold.  Pack  with 
ice  and  salt,  stand  4  hours.  When  ready  to  serve 
remove  mold,  heat  it  slightly  by  allowing  tap  water 
to  flow  over  it.  The  ice  cream  should  slide  easily 
out  in   form  from  the   mold. 

2.  Add  to  the  above  recipe  the  3  beaten  whites 
of  eggs  and  Yl  CUP  chopped  bananas,  Yl  CUP 
shredded  orange  pulp  sweetened  with  Yl  CUP  sugar 
dissolved    in    1    cup   water. 


CLASS  24— ICE  CREAM,  ICES— RECIPES 


251 


Orange  Mousse — Fill  a  mold  with  a  mixture  of 
2  cups  sweet  orange  juice,  Ya  cup  lemon  juice, 
J4  grape  fruit  juice,  2  cups  sugar,  1  pint  cream 
whipped,  1  cup  ground  nuts.  Pack  the  covered 
mold  in  ice.  After  4  hours  serve  in  small  glasses. 
Pass   orange  wafers,    and    candied    orange   peel. 

Orange    Ice Boil    1  Yl    qts.    water    with    2    cups 

sugar  for  several  minutes.  Add  pinch  of  salt,  1 
cup  orange  juice,  2  tbsp.  lemon  juice,  1  teasp. 
grated  rind.  When  cool,  freeze.  Serve  in  small 
glass    cups,    top    each   with    Maraschino    cherries. 

Blueberry  Parfait — To  every  qt.  blueberries  use 
1  cup  sugar;  crush  blueberries,  mix  with  Yl  amount 
of  sugar,  stand  2  hours,  then  press  through 
strainer.  Make  syrup  of  remaining  half  of  sugar 
and  a  little  water.  When  it  spins  a  thread,  pour 
syrup  over  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  2  eggs  to  every 
qt.  of  berries.  Cool,  fold  in  Yl  P'nt  whipped 
cream  and  the  strained  blueberries  with  I  tbsp. 
grape  juice.      Freeze. 

Strawberry  or  Raspberry  Ice — 1.  Wash  and  hull 
berries,  adding  1  cup  water  to  every  qt.  Crush 
the  fruits;  add  to  this  the  juice  of  I  lemon,  1  cup 
sugar.      Let   stand    I    hour;   strain,    freeze;   or: 

2.  When  lemon  juice  is  added  put  in  also  juice 
of  2  oranges,  Yl  CUP  sugar  ant^  do  not  strain. 
Serve   when   frozen   in   punch    glasses. 

Canned  Fruit  Sherbet — Use  canned  apricots, 
peaches,  pears  or  grapes.  Make  a  plain  lemon 
sherbet  mixture  using  either  lemon  juice  or  grape 
fruit  juice.  For  apricots  or  peaches  add  Yl  CUP 
sugar.  For  pears  or  grapes  use  Yl  CUP  'ess  °' 
sugar.  Freeze  lemon  sherbet  slightly;  add  the 
canned  fruit  crushed.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  white 
of   egg.       Finish    freezing. 

Lemon  Sherbet — Boil  2  cups  sugar  with  1  qt. 
water  6  minutes.  Add  I  cup  lemon  juice.  Strain, 
freeze  slightly;  add  stiffly  beaten  white  of  1  egg. 
Cover,    freeze.      This   will   serve    1 0   or    12    glasses. 

Orange  Cream  Sherbet — I.  Make  a  syrup  of  3 
cups  water,    2    cups  sugar,   add   Yl   CUP  orange  and 


lemon  juice  each.      Cool,   freeze.      When  half  done, 
add    I    cup   whipped    cream.      Finish   freezing. 

2.  An  easier  way  is  to  mix  lemon  and  orange 
juice  with  sugar  in  the  proportions  in  No.  I.  Stir 
in  milk  instead  of  water,  very  slowly.  Add  the 
cream,  freeze.  Serve  in  tall  glasses.  To  make 
it   less   expensive   omit   the   cream. 

Grape  Juice  Sherbet — Make  as  cream  orange 
sherbet  No.  !,  omitting  orange  juice;  adding  in- 
stead   1  Yl    cups    rich    grape    juice. 

Apple  Sherbet — Peel  I  doz.  tart  apples,  core 
and  quarter  them.  Boil  the  parings  in  I  qt.  water, 
covered,  until  juice  is  extracted.  Press  through 
a  colander.  Put  apples  in  same  water,  boil  gently 
till  tender.  Press  through  strainer.  There  should 
be  1  pint  or  more  of  apple  juice.  Add  this  to  a 
syrup  made  of  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  water,  juice 
of   1   lemon.      Freeze. 

Pineapple  Sherbet — To  make  about  a  gallon,  use 
1  large  can  of  pineapple,  chop  fine,  add  juice  of 
4  lemons.  Boil  I  qt.  water  with  4  cups  sugar,  add 
the  pineapple  juice  from  1  can.  Cook  5  minutes. 
Pour  this  over  chopped  pineapple  and  lemon  juice. 
Add  cold  water  to  make  3  Yl  I'3-  Freeze.  When 
half   done   add    stiffly   beaten   whites    of   4    eggs. 

Gelatine  Cream  Fruit  Sherbet — Make  a  5  minute 
syrup  of  2  cups  water,  1  cup  sugar.  Dissolve  I 
teasp.  gelatine  in  juice  of  2  oranges  and  I  lemon. 
Pour  syrup  over  gelatine  juices.  Strain,  cool. 
Whip  whites  of  2  or  3  eggs,  fold  into  the  cooled 
fruit  gelatine  syrup.  Freeze.  When  half  frozen 
add  Yl  CUP  grape  juice  or  crushed  fruit,  and  if 
desired,  2  cups  whipped  cream  or  top  each  sherbet 
glass   with    spoonful   whipped    cream. 

California  Coupe — Pineapple,  orange  pulp, 
banana,  each  chopped  separately  and  combined 
with  their  juices,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  shredded 
cocoatnut,  make  a  delicious  fresh  fruit  dessert  with 
powdered  sugar  sprinkled  over.  Let  this  fruit 
pudding  stand  in  its  juices  and  sugar  2  hours  in 
ice  box.  Then  fill  thin  glasses  half  full  with  it 
and   top  with  a  berry   ice   or  orange   mousse. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


252        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


Ulllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli 


CLASS  25 


I  Picktes  and  Cat5up^ 


TlllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIMIMIIIIiniMIIIIIIIMIIMIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllln: 

PICKLES 

(Food  Preservation:  A  National  Challenge,  Cornell  Reading  Course) 

It  is  the  custom  with  such  vegetables  as  tomatoes  and  cucumbers  to  soak  them  in 
brine  before  putting  them  through  the  regular  pickling  process.  The  brine  is  probably  used 
because  it  withdraws  moisture  from  the  tissue  of  the  vegetable  and  makes  it  possible  to 
obtain  a  firmer  product,  renders  a  milder  flavor,  gives  the  desired  salt  taste,  and  adds  to 
the  keeping  quality  of  the  pickle.  Some  persons  prefer  to  omit  the  treatment  with  brine. 
The  strength  of  brine  required  depends  on  the  length  of  time  the  vegetable  to  be  pickled 
is  to  remain  in  the  brine.  Too  strong  a  brine  softens  and  spoils  the  vegetable.  Brine  may 
be  made  by  adding  1  /3  to  Yl  cupful  of  salt  to  1  qt.  of  water.  Such  brine  should  be  strong 
enough  to  float  a  fresh  egg. 

Grape  leaves  and  cabbage  leaves  are  said  to  help  in  retaining  the  natural  green  color 
of  cucumbers  and  unripe  tomatoes.  The  bottom  and  sides  of  the  kettle  are  lined  with 
leaves,  the  kettle  is  then  filled  with  the  mixture  to  be  pickled,  and  the  top  of  the  mixture 
is  covered  with  leaves.  "Greening"  vegetables  by  cooking  them  in  copper  kettles  is  dan- 
gerous.     If  copper  utensils  are  used  at  all,  they  must  be  scrupulously  clean. 


RECIPES 


TWO  VINEGAR  MIXTURES  for  pickles  are  as 
follows: 

Recipe  I. —  1  qt.  vinegar,  I  Yl  teasp.  whole  black 
peppers,   I  Yl  teasp.  celery  seed,   I  Yl  teasp.  allspice, 

1  tbsp.  sugar,  24  teasp.  whole  cloves,  34  teasp. 
mustard  seed,  I  Yl  tbsp.  cinnamon  bark,  %  teasp. 
grated  horseradish. 

Recipe  2. 1    qt.  vinegar,    Yl   oz*   ginger,    I    teasp. 

mace,    I    oz.  small  onions,    1/3   oz.  mustard  seed. 
If    pickles    have    not    been    soaked    in    brine,    use 

2  oz.   of  salt. 

Cucumber  Pickles — Soak  cucumbers  in  brine  for 
24  hours,  then  rinse  and  drain  them.  Cover  them 
with  vinegar  or  vinegar  mixture  to  which  has  been 
added  I  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar  for  each 
quart  of  vinegar.  Bring  them  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point.  Pack  the  pickles  in  a  jar,  and  cover  them 
with  vinegar. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles — Soak  cucumbers  in 
brine  for  24  hours.  Rinse,  drain,  and  wipe  them 
dry.  Place  them  in  a  kettle,  and  cover  them  with 
the  following  vinegar  mixture:  1  quart  vinegar,  I 
cupful  sugar,  8  whole  cloves,  6  allspice,  6  blades 
mace,  8  whole  black  peppers.  Heat  the  pickles 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  pack  them  at  once. 


Quick  Pickles — Put  cucumbers  in  strong  brine 
{Yl  to  %  cupful  of  salt  to  I  quart  of  water). 
Bring  them  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  simmer 
them  for  5  minutes.  Drain  off  the  brine,  cover 
them  with  cold  water,  and  change  it  as  it  becomes 
warm.  Keep  changing  the  water  until  the  pickles 
are  crisp  and  cold.  Cover  them  with  a  vinegar 
mixture  made  by  either  of  the  two  preceding 
recipes. 

Mustard  Pickle — 2  qts.  cucumbers,  2  qts.  green 
tomatoes,  2  qts.  cauliflower,  2  qts.  small  onions, 
Yl  lb.  mustard,  Yl  cupful  flour,  6  cupfuls  brown 
sugar,    I    green  pepper,    cut   fine,    2    qts.   vinegar. 

Cut  up  the  vegetables,  and  scald  them  in  salt 
water  (I  qt.  water  to  J4  cupful  salt),  then  drain 
them  well.  Mix  the  mustard,  the  flour,  the  sugar, 
and  the  pepper,  add  the  vinegar,  and  boil  the  mix- 
ture for  1 0  minutes.  Pour  the  mixture  over  the 
chopped  pickle  while  it  is  boiling  hot,  and  seal 
the   pickle   in   scalded   jars. 

Dill  Pickles — To  each  qt.  of  water  allow  2  tbsp. 
salt;  boil  5  minutes.  When  cold  pack  the  pickles 
in  jars  with  dill  between.  Fill  with  the  brine, 
cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  It  may  be  nec- 
essary to  wash  the  pickles  and  pour  fresh  brine 
over    at    intervals. 


253 


254        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  I V— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Green  Tomato  Pickles — Chop  together  fine,  Yl 
bu.  green  tomatoes,  6  large  onions,  6  large  pep- 
pers, Y<\  lb.  white  mustard  seed  and  2  tbsp.  celery 
seed.  Put  in  layers,  one  of  the  mixture  and  one 
of  salt,  using  in  all  Yl  cup  salt,  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Then  squeeze  dry,  add  2  qts.  vinegar  and 
boil  together  until  tender;  when  nearly  done  add 
I    lb.   sugar  and   put  in   cans. 

Watermelon  Rind  Pickles — Cut  rind  in  small 
pieces,  peel  and  remove  all  the  red  parts;  cover 
with  cold  water  and  let  stand  several  hours,  then 
boil  till  clear  and  drain  well.  Make  a  syrup  by 
boiling  equal  quantities  of  vinegar  and  sugar,  a 
stick  of  cinnamon  and  race  ginger.  For  3  days 
in  succession  pour  this  mixture,  boiling  hot  over 
the   rind.      Put   in   stone  jars. 

Pickled  Onions — Select  small  white  onions,  peel, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  let  stand  two  days, 
changing  the  water  on  the  second  day.  Wash  well 
and  place  in  brine  four  days,  changing  the  brine 
at  the  end  of  the  second  day.  Take  onions  out 
of  brine,  put  them  in  boiling  water  for  10  minutes; 
then  put  them  in  cold  water  2  hours.  Drain,  pack 
in  jars,  add  a  few  small  red  peppers  and  garnish 
with  sprigs  of  mace.  Fill  jars  to  over-flowing 
with  spiced  vinegar.  See  Recipe  No.  1,  Vinegar 
Mixtures. 

Pickled  Beets  and  Carrots — Boil  the  beets  until 
tender  and  remove  the  skins,  slice  while  hot;  cover 
with  hot  spiced  vinegar.  Prepare  carrots  the  same 
way.      See  Recipe  No.    I,  Vinegar  Mixtures. 

Pickled  Green  Walnuts — Wipe  green  walnuts 
with  a  dry  cloth,  put  into  wide  neckejd  bottles  or 
jars,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Cover  the  jars 
closely  and  let  stand  in  cool,  dry  place  four  months; 
then  drain  off  vinegar.  Boil  enough  vinegar  to 
cover  them.  Allow  I  oz.  of  salt  and  Yl  oz*  each 
of  allspice,  peppercorns,  cloves  and  whole  ginger 
to  3  pints  of  vinegar,  combine  with  vinegar  and 
pour  boiling  hot  over  the  walnuts.  Cover  tight 
and  put  away  in  cool  dry  place.  They  will  be 
ready  to   use  in   3   weeks. 

Tomato  Catsup — One  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes 
cooked  tender  and  pressed  through  sieve.  Add 
1  Yl  pin*3  salt,  2  oz.  whole  cloves,  J/2  oz.  whole 
allspice,  I  J/2  oz.  whole  black  pepper,  5  beads  of 
garlic,  1  lb.  celery  seed,  Y$  oz.  ground  mustard 
(in  a  bag)  and  2  qts.  vinegar.  Boil  until  reduced 
about  half;  then  add  cayenne  to  suit.  Bottle  when 
cold. 

Cabbage  Relish — Remove  seeds  from  I  green 
and  I  red  pepper;  then  with  J/2  head  small  cabbage 
put  through  meat  chopper  and  mix  with  1  tbsp. 
celery  seed,  then  pour  vinegar  over,  and  salt  to 
taste.      Put  in  fruit  jars  and   keep  in   refrigerator. 

Beet  Relish — Put  I  qt.  cooked  beets  and  1  small 
head    cabbage    through    food    chopper    and    add     1 


cup   grated  horseradish,   2   cups  sugar,    2   tbsp.  salt, 

2  teasp.  mustard,  2  teasp.  celery  seed  and  I  pint 
vinegar;  let  stand  about  24  hours  before  using. 
Will  keep  indefinitely. 

Pepper  Relish — 12  red  peppers,  12  green  pep- 
pers,   12    onions,    1    pint   vinegar,    2    cupfuls   sugar, 

3  tbsp.  salt.  Chop  the  peppers  and  the  onions. 
Cover  them  with  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand 
for  5  minutes.  Drain  off  the  liquid.  Add  the 
vinegar,  the  sugar,  and  the  salt,  and  boil  the  mix- 
ture for  5  minutes.  Pour  it  into  scalded  jars,  and 
seal    them. 

Chile  Sauce — Recipe  I — 12  large  tomatoes, 
chopped,  2  medium-sized  onions,  chopped  fine,  3 
green  peppers,  chopped  fine,  2  tbsp.  salt,  3  cup- 
fuls vinegar,  1  tbsp.  mustard,  1  teasp.  cinnamon, 
1  teasp.  nutmeg,  2  tbsp.  sugar.  Cook  the* sauce 
until  it  is  of  the  right  consistency,  or  about  1  Yl 
hours,   and  seal  it  in  scalded  jars  or  bottles. 

Recipe  II — 12  tomatoes,  2  onions,  I  green  pep- 
per, ^  cupful  brown  sugar,  I  teasp.  cloves,  I 
teasp.  cinnamon,  1  tbsp.  salt,  J/2  cupful  vinegar. 
Peel  the  tomatoes,  and  slice  them.  Chop  the 
onions  and  the  pepper.  Combine  the  ingredients, 
and  cook  the  mixture  until  it  is  thick.  Seal  it  in 
bottles  or  jars. 

Chutney — 2  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  medium  size, 
chopped,  6  onions,  medium  size,  chopped,  3  red 
peppers,  chopped,  3  green  peppers,  chopped,  1 
dozen  tart  apples,  chopped,  I  lb.  seedless  raisins, 
1  cupful  celery,  cut  fine,  2  qts.  vinegar,  3  cupfuls 
sugar,  salt.  Combine  the  ingredients,  and  cook 
the  chutney  until  it  is  thick  and  clear.  Pour  it 
into   hot   sterile  jars,   and   seal   them. 

Very  Hot  Chutney — J4  lb.  garlic,  Yl  1°«  onions, 
J/2  lb.  raisins,  13  large  sour  apples,  chopped,  13 
ripe  tomatoes,  medium  size,  chopped,  Yl  1°*  salt, 
1  lb.  sugar,  Yl  oz-  cayenne,  3  pints  vinegar,  J/£ 
lb.  mustard.  Boil  the  vinegar  until  it  is  reduced 
one-half,  add  to  it  the  apples  and  the  tomatoes, 
and  boil  the  mixture  until  the  apples  are  soft. 
Chop  the  garlic,  the  onions,  and  the  raisins  to- 
gether, and  add  them  with  the  other  ingredients 
except  the  mustard,  to  the  boiling  mixture.  Cook 
it  until  it  is  thick,  or  for  about  2  or  3  hours.  Add 
the  mustard  just  before  taking  the  chutney  from 
the  fire.  Pour  it  into  hot  sterile  jars,  and  seal 
them. 

Cherry    Relish Remove    the    pits    from    cherries 

and  drain  them.  Cover  them  ■with  a  vinegar  solu- 
tion made  in  the  proportion  of  ^4  cupful  of  vine- 
gar to  1  qt.  of  water.  After  5  or  6  hours  drain 
the  cherries,  weigh  them,  and  add  an  equal  weight 
of  sugar.  Allow  the  cherries  to  stand  overnight. 
Seal  them  in  glass  jars  and  keep  them  in  a  cool 
dark  place.  The  vinegar  solution  that  has  been 
drained  off  may  be  used  in  making  various  kinds 
of  sweet  pickles. 


CLASS  25— PICKLES,  CATSUP— RECIPES  255 

Mock  Mincemeat — 3    lbs.    green   tomatoes,    3    lbs.  twice   this  process   of  adding   fresh  water,    scalding, 

apples,   chopped,   5  lbs.  brown  sugar,   2  lbs.   raisins,  and    draining.       Add    the    remaining    ingredients    in 

chopped,    2    tbsp.    salt,     1    cupful   suet.      Separately:  ,.l„  c  .  i-  *      i „    t     fci       _    i  j  i     .i 

rr                     r                          f                             r             j  the  nrst  hst,  above,   to  the  pulp,  and  cook  the  mix- 

I    cupful  vinegar,   2   tbsp.   cinnamon,   2  tbsp.    cloves,  .,    .      .        .               .  .  .     .                    ...          ,    . 

,                                                 .      ..     .      .       ,         _,  ture    until    it    is    clear.      Add    the    second    list    of   ln- 

I    nutmeg,    orange   peel,    if   desired.      Chop    the    to- 

j     i            .i                 ii        ».                 ,,        •    .  gredients    above    together,    and    cook    the    mixture 

matoes,   and   drain    them   well.      Measure    the   juice,  " 

and    add    the    same    amount    of   water    to    the    pulp.  until   il   is    thick-      This    mincemeat   will    keep    in    a 

Scald  the  mixture,  and  drain  off  the  liquid.      Repeat  covered  stone  jar. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


256        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


I 


^iiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu 

I  1    C •    _, J  TL    •     1  1___    1  1 


|  Seasonings  and  Their  Uses  | 


I  |  CLASS  26  1  | 

^iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 


It  is  a  wise  economy  to  purchase  spices  of  the  highest  quality  only,  as  the  ground 
spices  in  particular  offer  a  tempting  medium  for  adulteration.  Only  a  very  small  quantity  of 
a  pure  spice  will  be  required  to  impart  a  fine,  delicate  fragrance  to  food. 

Mustards  and  peppers  should  not  be  used  to  excess.  Cloves,  cinnamon,  cassia,  all- 
spice, nutmeg,  mace,  caraway,  aniseed,  etc.,  when  used  in  moderation  encourage  appetite 
and  relish  for  food  and  also  help  digestion.  Physiologists  state  that  the  aromatic  bodies 
when  absorbed  into  the  blood  relieve  and  prevent  nervous  depression  and  "lowness"  of 
spirits. 


RECIPES 


Fines  Herbes — A  combination  of  herbs,  minced 
together,  made  up  of  a  teasp.  of  parsley  and  J/£ 
teasp.  each  of  marjoram,  savory,  chervil,  and  a 
little  sage.  Sprinkle  over  broiled  or  planked  fish, 
place  in  the  fold  of  an  omelet,  strew  over  shirred 
eggs,  or  serve  with  lettuce  or  romaine.  Use  in 
stuffing   for   baked    cabbage,    tomatoes,    or    game. 

Mint Use    fresh    in    mint    sauce,     cabbage-and- 

mint  salad,  drinks  as  orange-mint  ade,  or  angel 
tip,  orange-and-mint  salad,  lemonade,  fruit  cock- 
tails, or  hot  or  iced  tea,  and  fresh  or  dry  in  a 
casserole  of  duck,  apple  jelly  or  gelatin,  canned 
or  dried  pea   soup,    and  with   peas. 

Parsley — Use  sparingly  fresh,  or  dried  and 
freshened,  with  omelets,  shirred  eggs,  any  chopped 
meat,  broiled  tomatoes,  mushrooms,  buttered  po- 
tatoes, in  butter  sauce  for  fish,  and  in  soups  and 
salads. 


Dill Use   fresh    or   dried   and   freshened 

salad,    plain    salads,    cream    soups,    and 
fish. 


in   egg 
on    broiled 


for 


Dried  Mushroom  Trimmings — Use  as  a  1 
mushroom  soup,  mushroom  sauce,  and  in  cream 
or  brown  sauce  for  oysters,  veal,  fish,  chicken,  and 
any   place   where    a    mushroom    flavor    is    desirable. 

Sage — Use  fresh  or  dry  with  beef,  chopped  meats 
or  pork,  stirred  into  plain  corn  meal  mush  for 
frying,  and  occasionally  with  cabbage,  string  beans 
or  spinach  cooked  with  salt  pork;  also  in  bread 
dressings   for   pork,   beef,    or  ham. 

Thyme  and  Marjoram — Use  with  light  meats, 
such  as  turkey,  broiled  squab,  pan-cooked  chicken; 
with  fish,  in  bread  dressings,  and  with  boiled  beans. 

Tarragon — When  fresh,  mince  and  sprinkle  on 
plain  salads,  use  in  chicken,  fish,  and  veal  salads, 
or  sparingly  on  broiled  fish.  Use  fresh  or  dry  in 
making  tarragon  vinegar. 


Horseradish — Use  with  heavy  meats  mixed  with 
a  little  vinegar  and  sugar,  or  as  a  sauce  made 
with  stock  and  crumbs;  beat  into  butter  and  spread 
on  broiled  or  planked  fish,  or  use  in  sandwiches; 
add  to  pickled  beets  or  beet  and  cabbage  salad. 
Dried  horseradish  may  be  freshened  and  used  in 
the    same   way. 

Bay  Leaves — Use  sparingly  in  meat  soups, 
bisques  made  of  haddock  and  cod,  cream  of  tomato 
soup,  and  cream  of  celery  soup.  Boil  with  veal, 
ham,  game,  and  fish.  Use  in  baking  fish,  carrots 
en  casserole,  stewed  tomato,  in  white  sauce  for 
meat  or  fish,  or  in  brown  and  tomato  sauce. 

Celery  Tips — Use  for  celery  soup,  bouillon,  in 
sauce  for  fowl,  for  creaming  oysters,  lamb,  or 
chicken,  in  making  chicken  jelly,  boiling  veal  for 
a   loaf,   and  in  potato  soup  and  oyster  stew. 

Mixed  Pickle  Spice — Use  a  teasp.  in  making 
2  qts.  of  soup-stock,  boiling  mutton,  fish,  corned 
beef,  ham,  or  tongue,  making  tomato  soup,  pick- 
ling beets,  cauliflower,  and  carrots  for  immediate 
use.      To  use,   tie  loosely  in   cheese  cloth. 

Whole  Cloves — Use  in  making  soup-stock, 
sweet-sour  sauces,  baked  carrots,  in  boiling  beans, 
spiced  beets,  and  fish,  and  in  baking  ham  in  cider 
or  grape  juice.  Use  in  spiced  grape  juice,  coddled 
apples   or   pears,    and   spiced   punch. 

Mustard — Sprinkle  sparingly  on  lettuce  to  be 
dressed  at  the  table,  in  mustard  sauce  for  potatoes, 
beef,  and  so  on,  combine  with  minced  ham  and 
tongue  for  sandwiches,  and  add  occasionally  to 
cheese  dishes. 

Mace Use    sparingly   with    spiced   beef,    oysters, 

veal,  in  mayonnaise  for  shellfish,  occasionally  in 
sauce  tartare,  French  oyster  soup,  scalloped 
oysters,  sauce  for  asparagus,  potato  croquettes, 
and  so  on;  use  in  rich  cookies,  berry  pies,  and 
pound  cake  to  produce  the  old  fashioned  flavor. 


257 


258        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Nutmeg — Use  very  judiciously,  as  its  flavor  is 
pronounced,  with  spinach,  mushrooms,  or  in  place 
of  mace.  It  may  be  combined  with  pickled  beets 
or  carrots,  also  sweet  potatoes,  stuffed  baked  po- 
tatoes, scalloped  fish,  and  the  like.  Grate  over 
custard  pie  or  junkets,  use  in  custards,  any  apple 
dish,  occasionally  with  cooked  peaches  or  pears, 
or  whenever  a  blend  of  spices  is  desirable. 

Stick  Cinnamon — Use  with  pickle  spice,  in  boil- 
ing corned  or  spiced  beef,  ham,  smoked  or  fresh 
tongue,  occasionally  with  fish,  and  in  making 
court  bouillon.  A  little  is  delicious  with  chocolate 
either  hot  or  iced,  in  chocolate  corn  starch  pud- 
ding, or  chocolate  frappe.  It  combines  well  with 
boiled  apples,  scalloped  pears  either  fresh  or  dried, 
and  stewed  figs  or  prunes. 


Ground  Cinnamon — Use  in  apple  and  squash 
pies,  doughnuts,  apple  rolls,  Dutch  apple  cake,  in 
the  syrup  for  basting  baked  apples,  currantade, 
spice  cakes,   toast,   cinnamon  loaf,   and  so   on. 

Caraway  Seed — Use  with  pork,  sausage,  in  red 
cabbage  salad,  for  caraway  vinegar,  in  old  time 
seed   cakes,    rye   and   sweet  breads,    etc. 

Coriander  Seed — Use  in  pickling  fish,  in  candies, 
sparingly  sprinkled  on  cookies,  ground  in  cakes, 
sweet   rolls,    or  bread. 

Curry — Use  with  meats  which  need  livening,  as 
soup  meat,  boiled  chicken,  sweetbreads,  and  the 
like,  or  in  sauce  for  ham,  tongue,  or  fish,  in  boiled 
or  mayonnaise  dressing  to  be  used  with  veal,  lamb, 
or  vegetables.  Serve  curried  rice  or  potatoes  with 
chicken,  veal,  or  lamb,  either  plain  or  creamed. 
Curry  sauce  may  be  used  with  quickly  boiled  cab- 
bage,   cauliflower,    carrots,    or    onions. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^iiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 

CLASS  27  1 

jS&nduickes  and  Nuts| 

1 1 1 1  e  i  g  1 1 1 1  u  b  b  1 1 1 1 1 1  b  e  1 1 1 1 1 1  a  i  a  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  g  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  b  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  g  v  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  a  1 1 1 1 1 1 1^ 


To  make  dainty  appetizing  sandwiches  takes  less  time  and  material  than  some  house- 
wives realize. 

For  the  home  luncheon,  sandwiches  offer  the  opportunity  of  both  using  an  occa- 
sional left  over  and  of  providing  a  very  substantial  addition  to  the  meal,  and  for  tea  or 
luncheon  they  may  be  made  to  add   the  spice  or  relish  so  necessary  to  the  menu. 


Besides  the  most  convenient  white  bread  for  sand- 
wiches, there  is  brown,  Graham,  whole  wheat,  rye, 
raisin,  nut  bread,  rolls,  beaten  biscuit,  crackers 
and  even  cornbread,  and  for  a  filling  foundation, 
fish,  meats,  some  vegetables,  eggs,  cheese,  nuts, 
sweets,    spices    and    pickles. 

Some  sandwiches  require  that  the  bread  used 
be  fresh,  others  are  better  made  with  bread  a  day 
old.  A  very  sharp  knife  is  needed  for  slicing 
either.  For  rolled  sandwiches  take  a  long  slim 
loaf  of  fresh  bread,  stand  on  end  and  slice  thin, 
lengthwise.  If  a  round  or  fancy  shaped  cutter 
is  used  more  sandwiches  may  be  gotten  from  bread 
sliced  lengthwise  than  crosswise;  but  for  square 
shapes,    cut    across    the    end    of    a    loaf. 

For  home  luncheon  if  bread  is  very  fresh  it  need 
not  be  trimmed  of  crusts,  but  it  must  be  remem- 
bered that  crusts  may  always  be  used  to  advantage 
either  chopped  into  small  pieces  and  browned  for 
soup   croutons,    or   dried,    and   ground  into    crumbs. 

A  quick  way  to  trim  off  crusts  is  to  go  around 
each  slice  with  large  scissors,  or  with  a  sharp 
knife,  trim  down  a  pile  of  slices  all  about  the 
same   size.      This  should  be  done  before  the   filling 


is    put   in    as    bits    of   the    filling   left    on    the    crusts 
will  prevent  them  from  being  used  to  advantage. 

Time  is  also  saved  by  creaming  the  butter  and 
either  spreading  on  each  slice  before  it  is  cut  from 
the  loaf,  or  by  using  a  small  flexible  knife  to  spread 
it    on   the   trimmed    cut    slices. 

When  creaming  the  butter  any  flavoring  in- 
tended to  be  used  in  the  filling  may  be  combined 
at  this  time,  either  chopped  olives,  anchovy  es- 
sence, sardine  or  salmon,  chives,  parsley,  paprika 
or    caviar. 

When  making  a  meat  sandwich  it  is  sometimes 
well  to  remember  just  which  relish  is  most  suit- 
able for  the  meat  to  be  used.  Cold  roast  beef  is 
always  nicer  with  a  bit  of  grated  horseradish;  cold 
pork,  chili  sauce;  cold  lamb,  chopped  capers;  veal, 
tomato  sauce;  chicken  and  other  fowl,  salad  dress- 
ing. 

Sandwiches  to  which  French  dressing  is  added 
should  be  eaten  directly  after  they  are  put  to- 
gether before  the  dressing  soaks  into  the  bread. 
Other  sandwiches  may  be  kept  fresh  for  several 
hours  by  wrapping  them  in  waxed  paper  or  in  a 
dampened    napkin    and    placing    where    it    is    cool 


APPETIZING    SANDWICHES 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin) 

Bread  for  sandwiches  should  be  at  least  24  hours  old,  cut  in  slices  of  uniform  thick- 
ness and  spread  with  creamed  butter.  Both  slices  should  be  buttered,  as  butter  keeps  the 
bread  moist  and  prevents  filling  from  soaking  into  the  bread. 

The  filling  material  adds  to  the  food  value  of  the  sandwich.  Any  food  capable  of 
being  mashed,  finely  ground,  or  thinly  sliced  is  suitable  for  filling.  It  should  be  spread  on 
one  side  of  the  buttered  bread,  the  other  side  fitted  to  this  and  the  sandwiches  cut  in  dainty, 
convenient  shape. 

The  crusts  should  not  be  removed  from  noon  lunches.  For  afternoon  functions  the 
sandwiches  are  more  dainty  with  crusts  removed. 

Sandwiches  are  served  at  noon  and  school  luncheons,  afternoon  and  evening  parties, 
picnics,  and  informal  entertainments. 


259 


260        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Materials  used  in  sandwiches: 

Raw  Vegetables — Lettuce,  cucumbers,  radishes, 
onions,  green  peppers,  nasturtium  leaves,  romaine, 
endive. 

Cooked  Vegetables — Kidney  beans,  beets,  peas, 
beans,   pimientoes. 

Eggs — Cold,    boiled,    scrambled. 

Meat — Chicken,   veal,   beef,   pork,    ham,   bacon. 

Fish Halibut,  salmon,  bass,  pike,  sardines,  tuna. 


Nuts Peanuts,     English     walnuts,      Brazil     nuts, 

Hickory  nuts. 

Cheese Camembert,    American,     Cream,    Neuf- 

chatel,   Parmesan,    Cottage. 

Fruit — (Preserved  fruits,  marmalades,  jellies 
and  jams) — Apples,  Cherries,  Currants,  Grapes, 
Oranges,  Grape  Fruit,  Peaches,  Pears,  Pineapples, 
Figs,  Dates,  Raspberries,  Strawberries,  Blueberries, 
Quince,  Guava,  Apricots,  Raisins,  Rhubarb,  Goose- 
berries, Blackberries. 


IOWA  STATE  COLLEGE  SANDWICHES 


Brown    Bread    Sandwiches Cut    Boston     brown 

bread  in  thin  slices,  spread  with  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  nuts  seasoned  with  salt.  Grated 
cheese  may  be  mixed  with  the  nuts. 

Noisette  Sandwiches — To  whole  wheat  bread 
sponge  add  2  tbsp.  molasses  and  I  cup  nutmeats. 
When  bread  is  24  hours  old,  cut  in  thin  slices, 
spread  with  creamed  butter  and  orange  marmalade. 
Cut   in   fancy  shapes   and    garnish   with   nut   meats. 

Colonial  Sandwiches — To  one-half  the  recipe  of 
whole  wheat  bread,  add  1  tbsp.  molasses,  and 
while  kneading,  work  in  ]/i  c  candied  orange  peel, 
and  J/j  c  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  I  lb.  baking  pow- 
der cans.  When  cool  slice  thinly  and  spread  with 
butter. 

Windsor  Sandwiches — J/3  c  butter,  J/2  c  boiled 
ham,  J/J  c  boiled  chicken,  2  tbsp.  chopped  green 
pepper.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  finely  chopped 
ham  and  chicken.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika. 
Spread  between  thin  slices  of  unbuttered  bread. 

Bacon  Sandwiches — 6  slices  of  bacon,  1 2  thin 
slices  toast.  Fry  bacon,  drain  and  place  between 
slices    of   hot   buttered   toast. 

Corned  Beef  Sandwiches — Put  corn  beef  thru 
meat  grinder,  moisten  with  salad  dressing  and 
cream  and  season  with  finely  chopped  pickles. 
Spread   between    slices    of   buttered   bread. 

Chicken  Cream  Sandwiches — 3  tbsp.  fat,  3  tbsp. 
flour,  J/2  tsp.  salt,  J/g  tsp.  pepper,  I  c  milk,  I  c 
chopped  cold  boiled  chicken,  J/^  c  chopped  celery, 
C^  c  chopped  cold  boiled  onion,  I  tbsD.  lemon 
juice,  whites  of  two  eggs.  Melt  fat,  add  flour,  salt 
and  pepper  and  blend.  Cook  thoroly,  add  milk 
and  cook  until  smooth  and  glossy.  Add  chicken, 
celery,  lemon  juice  and  onion.  Fold  in  beaten 
egg  whites.  Turn  into  a  mould  and  chill.  Cut  in 
thin  slices  and  place  between  slices  of  buttered 
bread.      Cut  in  fancy  shapes  if  desired. 

Nut  and  Cheese  Sandwiches — Mix  equal  parts 
of  grated  cheese  and  finely  chopped  nuts.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  moisten  with  salad  oil 
or  salad  dressing. 


Cheese  Sandwiches — 2  tbsp.  butter,  ]/^  c  grated 
cheese,  1  tsp.  lemon  juice,  J/^,  tsp.  salt.  J/£  tsp. 
paprika,  ]/^  tsp.  mustard.  Cream  butter,  add 
cheese  and  other  ingredients  and  spread  between 
slices    of   unbuttered   bread. 

Toasted  Salad  Sandwiches — Mash  cream  cheese 
and  moisten  with  French  dressing.  Cut  Graham 
bread  in  J/J  inch  slices,  spread  with  cheese  mix- 
ture and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts.  Put  together 
in  pairs,  remove  crusts  and  cut  in  finger-shaped 
pieces.  Toast,  pile  log  cabin  fashion  on  a  fancy 
plate  and  serve  as  an  accompaniment  to  a  dinner 
calad.  — Fannie  M.  Farmer. 

Fruit  Sandwiches — Chop  figs,  add  a  small  quan- 
tity of  water  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  paste 
is  formed  and  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 
Cool  before  spreading.  Finely  chopped  peanuts 
may  be   mixed  with   the  paste  if  desired. 

Dates  and  prunes  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

NOTE — Nuts  ground  with  figs,  dates,  raisins  or 
stewed  prunes  make   good  fillings. 

Ginger  Sandwiches — Cut  preserved  ginger  in 
very  thin  slices  and  sprinkle  between  slices  of 
buttered  bread. 

Egg  Sandwiches — I.  Mix  chopped,  hard  cooked 
eggs  with  equal  or  less  amount  of  chopped  boiled 
ham.       Moisten    with    salad    dressing. 

II.  Scramble  eggs  with  bits  of  crisp  bacon  and 
place  between  thin   slices  of  buttered  toast. 

Horse  Radish  Sandwiches — Fit  two  rounds  of 
bread  together.  Cut  the  upper  round  with  a 
doughnut  cutter.  Place  sandwich  filling  between 
and   fill   the   cavity  with   chopped   olives. 

Horse  Radish  Dressing — Yl  c  heavy  cream,  }/\ 
tsp.  salt,  2  tbsp.  grated  horse  radish  ,  I  tsp.  gelatine, 
3  tbsp.  vinegar,  few  grains  pepper.  Beat  cream 
until  thick.  Add  softened  gelatin  to  vinegar  and 
add  seasonings  and  horse  radish.  When  the  mix- 
ture begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  whipped  cream 
gradually. 


CLASS  27— SANDWICHES,  NUTS— RECIPES 


261 


Mexican  Sandwiches — I  qt.  small  sweet  cucum- 
ber pickles,  I  can  pimientoes  (small) .  Chop 
finely  and  moisten  with  salad  dressing  when  ready 
to   use. 

American  Sandwiches — 1  c  finely  chopped  roast 
beef,  1  tbsp.  horse  radish,  2  tbsp.  chopped  cu- 
cucumbers,    J/£    c   mayonnaise. 

English  Sandwiches 1    c  grated  cheese   (sharp), 

I  c  creamed  butter,  I  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce, 
J/g   tsp.  paprika.      Spread   on  brown  bread. 

Pepper  Sandwiches Chop   and   drain   sweet   red 


or  green  peppers,  and  moisten  with  salad  dressing. 
Relish    Sandwiches — Equal    parts    chopped    pars- 
ley, onion  and  horseradish.      Moisten  with  creamed 
butter. 

Sandwich  Filling — Pea   or  bean  pulp. 
Variations  in   seasoning  of  pulp: 

1.  Cheese,   salt  and  pepper. 

2.  Chopped  onions  and  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 

3.  Celery,  nuts,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper. 

4.  Butter,   lemon  juice  and  green  peppers,   salt. 

5.  Parsley,    pimientoes,   salt  and  pepper. 


RECIPES— GENERAL 


Salmon  Layer  Sandwich — Make  a  paste  of  the 
salmon,  mixing  in  the  oil  if  canned,  if  fresh  cooked 
use  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1 
teasp.  lemon  juice  to  I  cup  fish.  Mash  yolks  of 
4  hard  boiled  eggs  with  a  little  oil  or  butter.  Chop 
crisp    lettuce    and    sprinkle   with    salt. 

Slice  thin  one  large  square  loaf  of  white  bread. 
Put  4  slices  together,  trim  crusts,  spread  bottom 
slice  with  salmon  mixture,  the  second  slice  with 
egg  yolk,  the  third  with  chopped  lettuce.  Top 
with  buttered  bread,  press  all  together  gently  and 
cut   this    square    diagonally    into    2    sandwiches. 

Fish  Rolls  Sandwich — Mince  well  salmon  or 
tuna  fish  from  1  small  can,  or  any  cold  cooked 
fish.  Mix  with  Yl  cup  mayonnaise  and  2  hard 
boiled  eggs  chopped.  Remove  soft  crumb  from 
long  crusty  rolls,  fill  with  the  fish  and  egg  mixture, 
lay  on  top  tiny  strips  of  cucumber  pickle.  The 
crumb  may  be  used  in  bread  pudding  or  if  care- 
fully removed  it  is  delicious  brushed  with  butter, 
quickly  browned  and  served  hot. 

Shrimp  Sandwich — Use  either  canned  or  fresh 
cooked  fish.  Break  shrimp  into  bits,  add  minced 
pickle,  mix  with  enough  mayonnaise  to  hold  to- 
gether. Spread  on  slices  of  buttered  bread  with 
lettuce  between.  If  the  pickle  is  omitted  add 
enough  grated  lemon  rind  to  highly  flavor  the 
mayonnaise. 

Crab  Meat  Sandwich — Cream  4  tbsp.  butter,  add 
J/2  teasp.  mustard,  1  teasp.  salt,  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice,  pinch  of  paprika,  2  tbsp.  chopped  olives  or 
I  pickle,  Yl  CUP  grated  cheese,  1  cup  crab  meat. 
Mix  together  thoroughly,  spread  on  Graham  bread, 
top   with   buttered   white   bread. 

Salad  oil  can  be  used  instead  of  butter  and  1 
teasp.    anchovy    essence    in   place    of    crab    meat. 

Oyster  Sandwich — Chop  2  doz.  large  oysters, 
mix  with  a  cream  sauce  made  of  2  tbsp.  butter 
blended  with  1  teasp.  flour,  '/4  pt.  top  milk  or 
cream,  J4  teasp.  salt  and  pepper  mixed.  Cook 
slowly  together  oysters,  sauce  and  4  tbsp.  pow- 
dered crackers  stirring  until  smooth.  Stir  in  2 
tbsp.     grated    cheese.       Cool,    and    add    6     chopped 


olives    or    1    teasp.    parsley.      Spread    on    thin    but- 
tered bread   or   crackers. 

Sardine  Sandwich — 1.  Mash  sardines  from  I 
can  and  mix  with  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  few 
drops  lemon  juice,  pepper,  salt  and  mustard. 
Spread  between   crackers. 

2.  Skin  and  bone  sardines,  mix  with  equal 
amount   cream   cheese,   spread   on   rye  bread. 

Chicken  Sandwich — Chop  cold  cooked  chicken 
very  fine,  add  chopped  celery  and  nuts.  Combine 
altogether  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Spread  be- 
tween rounds  of  thin  buttered  white  bread.  Add 
chopped    parsley,    watercress   or    lettuce    if   desired. 

Chicken  Giblet  Sandwich — After  a  roast  chicken 
dinner,  chicken  giblet  sandwiches  are  convenient 
for  next  day's  luncheon.  Grind  the  giblets  with 
a  few  bits  of  left  over  dark  meat.  Mash  a  large 
slice  of  canned  pimento.  Mix  both  with  a  little 
chicken  stuffing  highly  seasoned.  Spread  on  beaten 
biscuit,    crackers,    or  Graham  bread. 

Deviled  Ham  Chicken  Sandwich — Slice  cold 
cooked  chicken  very  thin,  lay  on  small  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  sprinkle  with  salt,  place  in  between  slices 
of  rye  bread  on  which  ham  paste  has  been  spread. 

To  make  ham  paste,  grind  ham,  mix  with  oil, 
vinegar,  mustard  and  paprika;  or  use  canned 
deviled  ham. 

Ham  Sandwiches — Ham  sandwiches  are  best 
and  easiest  made  when  ham  has  been  ground.  It 
can  be  mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  or  mashed 
or   chopped    egg  highly   seasoned. 

Fresh  loaf  corn  bread  made  with  2/3  flour  will 
slice  fairly  thin  and  makes  a  wholesome  founda- 
tion for  a  highly  seasoned  ham  mixture. 

Left  over  bits  of  rice  or  potatoes,  mashed  with 
the  ham  serve  to  hold  the  ground  ham  together, 
seasonings  of  salt,  paprika,  lemon  juice,  chopped 
pickle  or  watercress  add  to  the  relish  of  the  sand- 
wich. 

Cold  Meat  and  Vegetable  Sandwich — Any  left 
over  vegetables,  such  as  asparagus  tips,  beans,  peas 
or  chopped  spinach  may  be  made  into  a  seasoned 
paste    and    spread    on    one   slice   of   bread,    the   ham 


262       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


or  cold  meat  paste  on  another  slice.  Press  the 
two  slices  together  with  a  lettuce  leaf  or  water- 
cress between. 

Ham    Toast   Sandwich    (using    left    overs) — Mix 

ground  seasoned  ham  with  just  enough  cooked  po- 
tatoes or  cereal  from  breakfast  to  hold  the  ham 
together.  Spread  on  small  slices  of  whole  wheat 
bread  cut  J4  inch  thick.  Cover  with  bread. 
Brown  the  sandwiches  quickly  on  both  sides  in 
a  skillet  greased  with  ham  or  bacon  fat;  or  dip 
sandwiches  in  a  batter  made  of  1  egg,  1  cup  milk, 
salt  and  pepper.      Brown   and   serve   hot. 

Croquette  Sandwich  (using  left  overs) — Left 
over  croquettes  or  meat  balls  make  a  quick  and 
good  sandwich  filling.  Mash  to  paste  with  cream 
or  mayonnaise,  add  salt  and  lemon  juice  or 
chopped  pickle  if  more  seasoning  is  needed. 
Spread  between   buttered  bread   or   crackers. 

Roast  Beef  Sandwich Slice  cold  roast  beef  very 

thin,  spread  lightly  with  grated  horseradish,  place 
on  lettuce  between  thin  slices  buttered  whole  wheat 
bread. 

Chipped  Beef  Sandwich — Mince  chipped  beef 
very  fine;  mix  with  mayonnaise,  spread  on  Graham 
bread,  add  a  slice  of  cucumber  or  tomato  if  de- 
sired. 

Creamed  Tongue  Sandwich — Use  tongue  or 
ham,  chicken  or  veal,  minced  and  heated  in  a 
little  thick  cream  sauce.  Bake  cracker  thin  bis- 
cuit cut  out  with  a  small  round  cutter,  open  them 
when  done  crisp,  butter  and  spread  with  creamed 
tongue.       Serve   hot.  ^ 

Cold  Tongue  Sandwich Slice  cold  tongue  thin, 

or  pound  to  a  paste.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  sea- 
soned with  Worchestershire  sauce,  spread  between 
buttered    slices   of  white   bread. 

Roast  Pork  Sandwich — Cut  off  fat  and  slice 
roast  pork,  or  cooked  link  sausage,  spread  with 
thin  layer  chili  sauce,  lay  on  lettuce  leaf  between 
buttered    slices    rye   bread. 

Hot  Vegetable  or  Novelty  Sandwich — Cook  2 
tbsp.  minced  onion  in  2  tbsp.  bacon  fat  or  oil; 
chop  4  green  peppers,  4  peeled  tomatoes  and  cook 
with  onion  till  nearly  dry,  about  30  minutes.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  on  hot  toast 
or  crisp  hot  biscuit  or  between  bread  slices  but- 
tered. Serve  with  cold  ham  or  sliced  meat  or  add 
the  meat  or  fried  bacon  to  the  sandwich. 

Tomato  Sandwich— Take  plain  peeled  tomato 
slices  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  lay  on  lettuce 
leaf  between  buttered  rye  or  Graham  bread. 
Watercress  or  grated  cheese  may  be  sprinkled 
over  the  dressing,  or  the  top  slice  of  bread  spread 
with  deviled   or   highly   seasoned  ham   paste. 


Tomato  puree  thickened  into  a  paste  and  com- 
bined with  ground  ham  or  pork  or  veal  or  egg 
makes  a   spicy  filling  for  rye  bread  sandwiches. 

Egg  Sandwiches — Slices  or  mashed  hard  boiled 
eggs  add  to  the  desirability  of  any  meat,  cheese  or 
vegetable    sandwich. 

Boil  6  eggs  1 5  minutes,  cool,  remove  shells, 
pound  smooth,  add  salt,  pepper  paprika,  2  tbsp. 
butter  or  oil,  few  drops  lemon  juice  or  vinegar  or 
chopped  olives  or  pickle.  Spread  on  crackers  or 
thin  slices  of  •white  bread. 

Scrambled  Egg  Sandwich — For  6  sandwiches 
break  6  eggs  into  bowl.  Beat  in  6  teasp.  cream, 
14  teasp.  salt,  dash  of  pepper.  Broil  6  thin  slices 
bacon  until  slightly  crisp.  Remove  bacon,  turn 
eggs  in  and  scramble  quickly.  Pile  eggs  lightly 
on  whole  wheat  bread  slices,  top  each  with  1 
slice  bacon,  cover  with  buttered  bread.      Serve  hot.    . 

Rolled  Sandwiches — For  these  a  paste  filling  is 
needed.  Stand  a  long  slim  loaf  of  bread  on  end, 
slice  downward,  trim  crusts  and  spread  slices  with 
paste.  Roll  carefully  and  tie  with  ribbon,  wrap  in 
waxed  paper  to  keep  fresh.  The  filling  or  paste 
for  these  French  rolled  sandwiches  may  be  made 
of: 

1 .  Ground  chicken,  ground  nuts  and  pimentoes 
mixed  with  mayonnaise. 

2.  Cottage    cheese   and    minced    olives. 

3.  Deviled  ham,  ground  walnuts,  or  tomato 
paste. 

4.  Ground  meat  or  mashed  eggs,  finely  chopped 
celery,    few  drops   onion,    mayonnaise. 

5.  Peanut    butter    and    minced   watercress. 

6.  Jelly,   jam   or   chopped   dates,   figs  and  nuts. 

7.  Canned  peaches,  mashed  with  powdered 
sugar 

8.  Fresh  fruit,  strawberries,  etc.,  sprinkled  with 
powdered  sugar,  spread  on  buttered  white 
bread    and    rolled. 

Coffee  Cheese  Rolls — Select  small  long  French 
rolls  with  tender  crusts,  cut  off  the  tops.  Remove 
some  crumb  and  fill  with  grated  cheese  mixed  with 
whipped  cream  and  lemon  extract  flavoring;  or: 
Fill  rolls  with  stiff  lemon  meringue  pie  filling  with 
grated  cheese  on  top;  or:  with  egg  custard.  Re- 
place the  tops  of  the  rolls  and  serve  with  hot 
coffee    or    chocolate   or   a    sweet   iced   drink. 

Celery,  Nut,  Cheese,  Olive  Sandwich — Grind 
nuts,  chop  celery  and  olives.  Combine  with  grated 
or  crumbled  cheese  and  either  creamed  butter  or 
mayonnaise.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  white 
bread. 

Cheese  Chow  Chow  Sandwich — Chop  fine  1 
green    pepper,     Yl    small    onion,     1 2    olives,     1     cup 


CLASS  27— SANDWICHES,  NUTS— RECIPES 


263 


grated  cheese,  1  mustard  pickle.  Combine  with 
sour  cream  or  mayonnaise,  enough  to  hold  ingredi- 
ents together.  Spread  on  whole  wheat  bread  cut 
in   fancy   shapes. 

Peanut  Butter  with  Cottage  Cheese  Sandwich — 

Spread  peanut  butter  and  cottage  cheese  on  thin 
slices  of  bread,  sprinkle  with  minced  watercress 
or  lettuce  heart  leaves,  cover  with  nut  bread  slices. 

Cream  Cheese  and  Whole  Wheat  Sandwich — On 

round  thin  slices  whole  wheat  bread  spread  cream 
cheese  moistened  with  cream  mixed  with  chopped 
olives. 

Rye  Bread  and  Swiss  Cheese  Sandwich — Spread 
rye  bread  with  deviled  ham  or  tongue,  top  with 
thin  slices  Swiss  cheese,  cover  with  buttered  slices 
rye  bread. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  Sandwich — Cut  slices  of 
bread  J4  inch  thick,  spread  with  thick  mayonaise 
sprinkled  with  chopped  nuts,  lay  lettuce  leaf  on 
and  cover;  or:  spread  Boston  brown  bread  with 
ground  nuts  and  chopped  ginger  mixed  with 
creamed    butter. 

Peach  Delight  (Sandwich) — Spread  thin  white 
bread  slices  buttered,  with  peach  marmalade;  cover 
with  a  slice  of  whole  wheat  bread  spread  with 
cream    cheese,    top   with   white   bread    buttered. 

Nuts — Nuts  contain  a  great  deal  of  fat  and  pro- 
tein, but  very  little  water,  so  the  finer  nuts  are 
chopped  and  mashed  the  more  rapid  will  be  their 
digestibility. 

To  crack  pecans  and  walnuts,  let  them  stand  in 
boiling  water  several  hours.  Crack  the  nuts  gently 
around  the  sides,  the  meats  will  generally  come 
out  whole  and  without   the  bitter  dark  skin. 

To  blanch  almonds,  shell  and  throw  kernels  into 
boiling  water  5  minutes.  Drain,  pour  cold  water 
over.  The  skins  will  then  rub  off  easily.  Wipe 
dry,    and    cool   before    chopping. 

The  Soy  Bean,  being  so  rich  in  fat  responds  sat- 
isfactorily to  roasting.  If  carefully  and  properly 
done  it  is  found  to  have  a  sweet  nutty  flavor  and 
may  be  used  in  recipes  in  the  place  of  almonds 
and  peanuts. 

To  roast  soy  beans,  soak  over  night  or  longer 
in  salted  water.  Drain  and  parboil  in  other  water 
1  hour.  Drain  again  and  place  in  a  roasting  pan 
in  a  hot  oven  with  the  door  open.  Watch  con- 
stantly and  stir  to  keep  from  scorching.  When 
done   they   are   a   rich  brown. 


Nut  Sandwiches — Almost  any  kind  of  sandwich 
is   improved   by   the   addition    of   nuts. 

1 .  Almonds  or  walnuts  combine  pleasantly  with 
minced    chicken,    olives    and    celery, 

2.  Walnuts  with  mayonnaise  and  lettuce  or  with 
candied   ginger  or  candied  orange  peel. 

3.  Chopped   butternuts,    cottage   cheese   and   let- 
tuce. 

4.  2/3  walnuts,    1/3   lb.   grated  Parmesan  cheese 
with    buttered    brown    bread. 

Almond  Whip  Sandwiches — Beat  whites  of  2 
eggs,  very  stiff,  add  2  tbsp.  confectioners  sugar, 
I  teasp.  almond  or  orange  extract  or  1  spoonful 
candied  orange  peel.  Spread  on  thin  crackers, 
sprinkle  minced  almonds  on  top.  Bake  until 
brown.      Serve. 

Cocoanut    Prize    Sandwich Soak    dry    shredded 

cocoanut  in  a  little  sweet  milk,  a  few  minutes. 
Drain,  lay  on  unsalted  buttered  crackers  or  home- 
made cracker-thin  squares  of  pastry.  Spread  with 
sweet  butter.  Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  cocoa- 
nut.  Top  with  a  marshmallow  and  melt  it  under 
oven  flame;  or;  mix  the  sweetened  cocoanut  with 
marshmallow  cake  filling,  spread  on  the  pastry,  and 
serve   uncovered. 

Preserved     Ginger     and     Nut     Sandwich — Chop, 

very  fine,  preserved  Canton  ginger.  Make  a  smooth 
thick  syrup  of  white  sugar,  1  teasp.  vinegar,  I 
teasp.  ground  ginger,  lump  of  butter.  When  partly 
cool  add  chopped  nuts  and  minced  preserved  gin- 
ger. Spread  before  it  cools  on  crackers  or  sweet 
wafers. 

Stewed     Fruit     Sandwiches 1.        Thick     stewed 

rhubarb  sweetened  and  spread  when  cool  on  thin 
white  buttered  bread  is  delicious.  This  is  improved 
by  adding  a  slice  of  whole  wheat  bread  covered 
with    cream    cheese.      Top   with   white   bread. 

2.  Stewed  apricots,  prunes  or  any  stewed  fruit 
mashed,  laid  on  thin  bread  slices,  sprinkled  with 
sugar  and  topped  with  whipped  cream  make  a 
dainty    afternoon    sandwich. 

Apple  and  Date  Sandwich — Mince  raisins  or 
dates,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  mix  with  ground 
nuts  and  chopped  apples.  Lay  on  slices  of  but- 
tered whole  wheat  bread.  Sprinkle  lemon  juice 
over,    or    mayonnaise;    top    with    buttered   bread. 

The  raisins,  nuts  and  apples  may  be  combined 
with  a  stiff  syrup  made  of  brown  sugar,  butter 
and  flour  creamed,  and  a  few  drops  lemon  juice. 
Cook  the  syrup  3  minutes.  When  nearly  cool  add 
the    filling,    spread    on   bread,    serve    at   once. 


2  64        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'' 


Fruits  and  Berries 

(fresh) 


CLASS  28        | 
niiiiiiiiiiiiiriiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii]||||iiiiiinn 

The  importance  of  plenty  of  fruit  for  every  day  food  the  year  around  cannot  be 
too  greatly  emphasized.  The  health  of  the  body  is  dependent  on  their  phosphates,  fruit 
sugars  and  organic  acids,  which  no  other  food  supplies  so  well. 


Some  fruits,  as  oranges  and  lemons,  may  be 
found  on  the  market  every  season,  other  fruits  if 
not  always  found  fresh  may  be  had  canned  or 
dried.  The  valuable  elements  of  both  the  orange 
and  lemon  are  similar.  Lemon  juice  is  more  acid, 
it  is  cooling,  quenches  the  thirst  and  enters  the 
blood  in  alkaline  citrates.  Its  aroma  and  flavor 
make  it  especially  liked  as  a  basis  of  many  fruit 
drinks   and   desserts. 

The  orange  is  a  rapid  upbuilder  and  cleanser 
and  has  an  even  more  delicious  flavor  and  aroma. 
It  contains  citric  acid,  which  is  a  liver  stimulant 
and  a  gentle  laxative.  It  also  has  a  large  supply 
of  phosphates,    a   direct   nerve   food. 

The  pineapple,  rich  in  sugars,  fragrance  and  a 
certain  ferment  which  is  a  great  aid  to  digestion, 
combines  most  pleasantly  with  other  fruits.  K 
is  to  be  had  at  any  time  either  fresh  or  canned 
and  unlike  some  others  it  loses  very  little,  if  any 
of  its   natural   flavor  by   canning. 

Bananas  when  unripe  are  rich  in  starch  and  best 
for   cooking;    ripe   bananas   are   very   nourishing. 

Cranberries  and  rhubarb,  next  to  the  lemon,  con- 
tain so  much  acid  that  a  very  little  of  their  juice 
is  needed  to  impart  a  high  flavor  to  desserts. 
Their  qualities  are  especially  favorable  to  prevent 
excessive  bacterial  growth  in  the  intestines,  the 
great   enemy   to    good   health. 


The  strawberry,  raspberry,  blackberry,  peach, 
pear,  and  sweet  apple  all  yield  a  fragrant  cooling 
sub-acid  juice,  laxative  and  tonic  in  effect  and  add 
variety  to  a  drink  or  fruit  dish  by  their  penetrating 
and   pleasing   flavor  and   color. 

The  juice  of  the  grape,  containing  1 0  to  26  per 
cent  of  sugar  is  a  source  of  energy,  because  of  this 
high  sugar  percentage,  and  is  easily  digested  since 
all   fruit   sugars,    unlike   cane   sugar,   is   predigested. 

Raisins  are  the  fruit  of  the  grape  dried.  Lack- 
ing the  water  of  the  fresh  grape,  they  are  a  con- 
centrated food  filled  with  fattening,  easily  digested 
sugars,  and  minerals  and  organic  acids  in  fair 
amounts.  These  tend  to  check  intestinal  fermen- 
tation and  are  highly  influential  in  maintaining 
good  health.  Raisins  of  good  quality  are  a  whole- 
some addition  to  any  meal,  served  either  as  a  sep- 
erate  dish   or  incorporated  in  a   dessert. 

In  preparing  such  fruits  as  plums,  peaches,  etc., 
for  the  table,  the  skin  may  be  readily  removed 
without  injury  to  the  flavor  by  first  immersing  them 
for  a   short  time   in   boiling  hot   water. 

A  silver  knife  should  always  be  used  for  paring 
apples,  pears  and  other  fruits;  if  a  steel  knife  is 
used  the  acid  of  the  fruit  acts  on  the  iron  of  the 
knife  and  frequently  causes  a  black  discoloration, 
and  there  is  also   a   noticeable  metallic   flavor. 


Fruit  Cocktail — To  make  a  fruit  cocktail  use 
the  fresh  fruits  in  season.  Skin  the  grapes  and 
seed  them,  peel  apples,  slice,  remove  the  white 
skin  from  oranges  and  shred  the  pulp.  Cut  all 
fruit  used  into  small  pieces,  soak  1  hour  com- 
bined with  their  own  juices  sweetened  with  sugar, 
and  Maraschino  juice.  Chill  and  serve  in  cock- 
tail glasses  as  a  first  course  for  luncheon  or  dinner. 

Cherry  Cocktail — -Soak  I  cup  large  dried  cur- 
rants in  Yl  CUP  water  until  soft.  Mix  with  2  cups 
canned  black  cherries  Yl  CUP  orange  juice,  Yl  CUP 
sliced  bananas,  sugar  to  taste.  Chill  for  I  or  2 
hours.      Serve  in   cocktail  glasses. 


RECIPES 

Jelly    Cocktail Prepare     Yl     CUP    sliced    orange 

pulp  and  bananas,  J/3  cup  shredded  pineapple,  1 
cup  strawberries.  Melt  2  cups  sugar  in  3  tbsp. 
apple  or  currant  jelly  and  juice  of  2  lemons.  Pour 
this  over  fruit,  set  aside  to  chill.  Serve  as  a  cock- 
tail. 

Syllabub Whip    1    pint   cream,   add    I    small   cup 

powdered  sugar,  the  whipped  white  of  2  eggs. 
Mix  1  Yl  cups  grape  juice.  Pour  over  shredded 
orange   and   bananas.      Serve   in   sherbet    glasses. 

Apples A   well    cooked    cut    of    meat    is   doubly 

enjoyed  if  the  certain  sauce  which  seems  to  suit 
its   particular   flavor  is  served  with  it.      Apples  are 


265 


266        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


one  of  the  few  accompaniments  that  seems  delicious 
with  all  kinds  of  meat.  Its  acid  is  especially  ac- 
ceptable with  roast  pork.  Small  apples  peeled  and 
baked  with  nutmeg  may  be  served  with  pork  or 
veal;  fried  apples  and  bacon  for  breakfast;  apple 
sauce  or  baked  or  apple  fritters  with  poultry  or 
game. 

Apple  syrup  flavored  with  mint  poured  over 
baked  apples  add  to  the  enjoyment  of  a  dish  of 
roast   lamb. 

Oranges — Oranges  too,  may  be  incorporated 
into  a  salad  with  any  additional  flavors  as  seems 
to  best  suit  the  meats  of  the  same  meal.  Serve 
orange,  celery,  French  dressing  with  poultry; 
orange,  mint,  celery,  French  dressing  with  lamb 
or  game;  orange,  chestnut,  raisins,  celery,  French 
dressing  with  wild  game  or  chicken;  orange,  grape 
fruit,  tart  apple,  French  dressing  with  fish  or  roast 
pork;  orange,  prunes,  nuts,  mayonnaise  with 
chicken;  orange,  grapes,  ginger,  celery,  French 
dressing  or  orange,  pineapple,  grape  fruit,  French 
dressing  with  veal. 

Baked  Apple  (Plain) — Wash  and  core  6  apples. 
Place  in  a  casserole,  sprinkle  with  I  cup  brown  or 
white  sugar,  \A  teasp.  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  dot 
with  I  tbsp.  butter  creamed  with  1  tbsp.  flour, 
or  make  sugar,  flour,  butter  and  cinnamon  into  a 
paste  and  stuff  the  apple  centers  with  it.  Add  1 
cup  water  to  the  casserole,  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven,   uncover   when   done,   to   brown. 

Stuffed — Fill  the  cored  cavity  of  each  apple  with 
a  mixture  of  butter  and  sugar  creamed  together 
with  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice,  adding  chopped  raisins 
and   nuts  if   convenient.  •» 

Party  Apples  (with  Custard  Sauce) — Make  a 
plain  custard  not  too  rich,  and  serve  with  this 
dessert.  Core  6  large  apples.  Remove  more  pulp 
from  centers  and  chop  it  with  Yl  CUP  minced 
floured  raisins,  Yl  CUP  chopped  dates  or  figs  or 
candied  orange  peel,  Yi  cup  ground  nuts,  Yl  CUP 
sugar,  grated  rind  1  lemon,  Yl  teasp.  cinnamon. 
Stuff  the  apples,  pour  on  a  little  water  and  bake 
gently  until  tender  but  with  unbroken  skin  cases. 
Serve  with  cream  or  light  custard  poured  over,  or 
lemon  sauce. 

Baked  Apples  (with  Caramel  Sauce) — Bake 
apples  without  peeling  or  coring.  Melt  and  brown 
1/2  cup  sugar  to  caramel.  Add  1  cup  boiling 
water,  1  Yl  cups  white  sugar,  1  teasp.  cream  of 
tartar.  Do  not  stir.  Boil  until  it  will  harden  in 
ice  water.  While  hot  pour  a  little  over  each  baked 
apple  on   individual  plates. 

Stewed  Candied  Apples — Boil  equal  amounts 
sugar  and  water  together  until  it  spins  a  thread. 
Pour  this  over  apples,  peeled,  cored  and  cut  in 
quarters.  Add  grated  rind  or  bits  of  lemon  peel. 
Simmer   until   apples   are   clear.      When   apples   are 


tender  but  not  broken  remove  gently.     Boil  syrup 
down   to   jelly   and   pour   over   apples. 

Southern  Pippin — Bake  cored  apples  with  skins 
on  in  covered  baking  dish  with  1  tbsp.  sugar,  Yl 
teasp.  butter  to  each  apple,  add  water  to  cover 
bottom  of  pan.  When  water  has  boiled  down  and 
apples  are  done,  gently  spread  open  the  apples 
and  sprinkle  over  each  a  few  finely  grated  bread 
crumbs  sweetened  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  but- 
ter, or  use  cake  crumbs  mixed  with  ground  nuts. 
Return  to  oven  and  brown  the  crumbs  quickly. 
Serve  with  whipped   cream. 

Steamed  Prunes — Wash  I  lb.  large  best  prunes. 
Soak  in  lukewarm  water  1  hour  until  soft  to  touch. 
Steam  without  adding  sugar  until  fruit  is  tender 
but  skins  unbroken.  The  best  prunes  steamed  will 
be  sweet  enough  when  done  to  serve  to  children 
without  sugar. 

Baked  Prunes — Prepare  1  lb.  prunes,  soak  2 
hours.  Place  in  baking  dish,  add  several  cloves 
and  cinnamon.  Pour  boiling  water  on  to  just 
cover,  add  juice  of  lemon,  %  cup  sugar.  Cover 
closely  and  bake  slowly  about  45  minutes.  Un- 
cover, dot  fruit  with  butter.  Cook  1 0  minutes 
longer  until  prunes  are  almost  candied.  Serve 
either  hot  or  cold  with  light  dry  cake,  as  lady 
fingers,  orange  cake  or  lemon  wafers.  Any  dried 
fruit,  apricots  or  peaches  may  be  prepared  in  this 
way. 

Stuffed  Prunes — Steam  large  prunes  until 
tender,  but  not  broken.  Remove  seeds  and  fill 
prunes  as  dates  are  stuffed,  with  chopped  nuts, 
raisins  or  dates.  Boil  down  to  a  syrup  the  water 
prunes  were  cooked  in.  Stir  into  it  Yi  box  gela- 
tine dissolved  in  Yi  CUP  cold  water.  Pour  this 
gelatine  syrup  around  prunes  in  individual  molds. 
Place  on  ice.  Serve  on  slices  of  light  cake  and 
top  with  whipped  cream. 

Fruit  en  Casserole — Slice  several  bananas  into 
a  baking  dish.  Cover  with  thick  layer  of  sliced 
apples.  Put  in  last  2  cups  washed  cranberries. 
Sprinkle  with  1  cup  sugar.  Cook  until  fruit  is 
tender.      Serve  with  whipped   cream. 

Bananas  Baked  Whole — Select  firm  ripe  bananas, 
peel,  place  whole  in  baking  pan.  Spread  butter 
over  the  fruit,  squeeze  lemon  juice  over,  add  sugar 
and  little  water.  Cook  in  moderate  oven  until 
soft  through  and  candied  on  top.  Be  careful  not 
to  cook  too  long.      Serve  immediately. 

Fresh  Banana  Crush — Just  before  serving  time 
crush  bananas  in  individual  dishes  using  a  silver 
fork.  Squeeze  lemon  juice  over  fruit,  sift  on  pow- 
dered sugar.  Garnish  with  quartered  Maraschino 
cherries. 


CLASS  28— FRUITS,  BERRIES— RECIPES 


267 


Fruit  Whip — Beat  whites  of  3  eggs  very  stiff,  add 
J/2  cup  powdered  sugar,  J/8  teasp.  cinnamon.  Beat 
until  stiff  and  smooth,  fold  in  3  ripe  pears  which 
have  been  peeled,  cored  and  cut  in  dice.  Turn 
this  into  individual  dishes  or  glasses.  Chill  and 
when  ready  to  serve  top  with  whipped  cream  and 
a  small  piece  of  fruit.  If  peaches  are  used  flavor 
with  1 2  teasp.  almond  extract;  if  bananas,  1  tbsp. 
orange  juice  or  I  teasp.  lemon;  fresh  apricots  use 
bits  of  candied  ginger.      Serve  with  light  cake. 

Stewed  Peaches — Peel  fresh  peaches,  stew  whole 
in  a  little  water  to  nearly  cover,  with  sugar  and 
cloves,  until  done  but  firm.  Serve  in  their  juice 
with    cloves   stuck   in   each   peach. 

If  fresh  apricots  are  used,  seed  but  do  not  peel. 

Dried    Fruit    Baked — Prunes,    apricots,    peaches, 


pears,  raisins  or  apples  dried  may  be  stewed  in  the 
oven  while  other  things  are  baking.  Wash  fruit, 
pour  boiling  water  over  and  let  stand  covered  1 
hour.  Then  add  sugar,  cover  tightly  and  cook  in 
moderate   oven  till  fruit   swells   and   softens. 

FRESH  FRUITS  IN  COMBINATION  WITH 
COOKED  DISHES 

Fresh  fruits  are  frequently  served  in  combina- 
tion with  cooked  foods,  such  as  apples,  cut  and 
sliced,  for  garnishment  on  a  casserole  dish  of  pork 
or  chops;  also  in  combination  with  puddings, 
cakes,   etc. 

These  "will  be  found  under  the  Recipes  relating 
to  the  cooked  foods  rather  than  in  this  section 
which  is  intended  to  cover  primarily  fresh  fruit  as 
dishes  in  themselves. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


268        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu 

|         |  Candies  Made  at  Hom^^ 


CLASS  29 


.TIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllin: 

SOME  TESTS  USED  IN  SUGAR  COOKERY 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin,    "Cake") 

238°    to    242°    F.    Soft   Ball The    stage    at   which   a    little    of   the    sirup    dropped    into    cold   water   may 

be  formed  into  a  soft  ball  that  will  just  hold  its  shape  in  the  fingers.  Used  in  making  icing,  taffy, 
fudge,    pinoche    and    fondant. 

248°  F.  (about)  Firm  Ball — The  stage  at  which  the  sirup  tested  as  above  will  form  a  firm  ball  in 
the    fingers.       Used    in    making    divinity,    sea-foam,    and  pop-corn  balls. 

290°   F.    (about)    Crack  or  Brittle The  stage  at  which   sirup   becomes    brittle   immediately   upon   being 

dropped    into    cold    water.       Used    in    making   butter    scotch,    glace    nuts    and    taffy. 

254°    to    345°    F.    Caramel The  stage  at   which    sirup   turns  a   dark  yellow   color   and   snaps   like   thin 

glass  when   cooled.      Used   in   making  nut  brittle,    and  caramel  syrup  used  for  flavoring. 

To  caramelize  sugar  melt  dry  in  sauce  pan  or  add  small  amount  of  water  and  boil  until  dark  yel- 
low in  color.  The  latter  method  requires  a  little  less  attention.  To  prepare  caramel  sirup,  add  as  much 
boiling   water   as   sirup,    boil   until    smooth   and   store   in  bottles. 

Icings,  fondant  and  other  confections  should  be  made  on  a  clear  day  if  possible,  since  a  damp  at- 
mosphere interferes  with  proper  hardening.  If  the  work  must  be  done  on  a  damp  day,  the  cooking  should 
be  carried  a  little  farther  in  each  case.  Fondant  that  has  become  a  little  too  dry  to  handle  may  be  re- 
stored by  placing  oiled  paper  over  the  candy  and  wrapping  the  dish  in  a  moist  towel. 

Fondant  is  the  basis  for  many  different  confections  and  may  be  used  also  for  dipping  small  cakes 
and  frosting  larger  ones.  A  great  variety  of  candies  may  be  made  from  fondant  by  combining  it  with  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  fruit  and  nuts,  by  using  different  flavorings  and  colorings  and  by  moulding  it  into  dif- 
ferent   shapes. 


IOWA  COLLEGE  RECIPES 

White    Fondant 5     c    sugar,     I  Yl    c    hot    water, 

Ya  tsp-  cream  of  tartar.  Place  ingredients  in 
smooth  sauce  pan  and  heat  gradually  to  boiling. 
Boil  gently,  without  stirring  to  soft  ball  stage. 
Crystals  which  form  on  side*  of  pan  should  be 
■washed  off  ■with  knife  or  spoon  dipped  in  cold 
water.  Repeat  as  often  as  crystals  form.  When 
just  done,  pour  without  stirring  or  scraping  pan, 
on  slightly  oiled  marble  slab  or  plate.  Let  stand 
until  entirely  cool,  draw  together  and  work  with 
■wooden  spoon  until  white  and  creamy.  When 
just  dry  enough  to  handle,  begin  kneading  with 
the  hands  and  knead  until  perfectly  smooth.  Place 
in  bowl,  cover  closely  with  oiled  paper  and  let 
stand  twenty-four  hours. 

Coffee  Fondant 5  c  sugar,    1  Yl  c  cold  water,   Ya 

c  ground  coffee,  Ya  *sP*  cream  of  tartar.  Place 
coffee  and  water  in  sauce  pan  and  heat  to  boiling. 
Strain  through  double  cheese  cloth.  Add  sugar, 
and  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  to  soft  ball  stage. 
Handle   same   as  white   fondant. 


tar.  Break  maple  sugar  in  pieces,  add  to  remain- 
ing ingredient.  Boil  and  work  same  as  white  fon- 
dant. 

Nut  Brittle  or  Nut  Bar — 1  c  sugar,  1  c  nut 
meats.  Place  nut  meats  on  tin  plate  in  thin, 
even  layer.  Make  a  caramel  of  the  sugar  and 
pour  over  nuts  to  cover  evenly.  When  cold,  break 
in  pieces.  If  desired  in  bars  or  squares,  mark  be- 
fore cooling.  The  nut  meats  may  be  chopped  if 
desired. 


Maple  Fondant — 1  Ya    lbs.    maple   sugar,    1  Ya    lbs. 
vhite   sugar,     I    c   hot  water,    '/4    tsP-    cream   of  tar- 


Glace  Nuts — 2  c  sugar,  1  c  boiling  water,  J/g 
tsp.  cream  of  tartar.  Put  ingredients  in  sauce  pan 
and  heat  gradually  to  boiling.  Boil  without  stir- 
ring until  syrup  begins  to  discolor  slightly  (310° 
F.).  Place  sauce  pan  in  cold  water  to  stop  boiling, 
instantly.  Place  in  hot  water  during  dipping- 
Take  nuts  separately  on  a  long  pin,  dip  in  syrup 
to   cover,   remove  and  place  on  oiled  paper. 

Note To  save  time,   nut  meats  may  be  replaced 

evenly  over  bottom  of  a  square  pan  and  the  syrup 
poured  over,  marked  and  cooled.  The  syrup 
should  become  quite  hard  and  brittle  if  cooked 
to   right  stage. 


269 


2  70       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Fudge — 3  c  sugar,  %  c  water,  1  tbsp.  corn 
syrup,  2  Yl  squares  chocolate,  ]/g  tap.  salt.  Cut 
chocolate  in  small  pieces,  put  in  sauce  pan  with 
sugar,  corn  syrup  and  milk.  Stir  until  chocolate 
is  melted.  Bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  boil 
until  the  mixture  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  Pour  on  a  smooth  surface  and 
work  with  a  spatula  until  ready  to  knead.  Knead 
until  creamy.  Press  into  slightly  oiled  pan,  cool 
and  cut  in  squares. 

NOTE — J4  c  each  of  chopped  raisins,  figs  and 
dates    makes    a    pleasing    variation    of    this    recipe. 

Sour  Cream  Candy — 2  c  brown  sugar,  Yl  c  sour 
cream,  I  tsp.  vanilla,  Yl  c  nut  meats,  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Mix  sugar  with  sour  cream.  Cook  to  soft 
ball  stage,  beat  mixture  until  it  thickens,  add  va- 
nilla  and   nuts.      Cut   in   squares  when   cool. 

Divinity — 2  c  sugar,  Yl  c  bot  water,  4  tbsp. 
corn  syrup,  2  egg  whites,  Yl  c  chopped  nuts,  Yl 
tsp.  vanilla.  Put  sugar,  boiling  water  and  sirup  in 
pan,  stir  until  blended.  Heat  gradually  to  boiling. 
Boil  without  stirring  to  firm  ball  stage.  Have  egg 
beaten  stiff  but  not  dry.  Cool  sirup  slightly  and 
pour  very  slowly  into  egg  whites,  beating  con- 
stantly. Beat  until  light  and  creamy,  add  flavoring 
and  nuts.  Pour  into  oiled  pan  and  cut  in  squares 
when  cool,  or  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  oiled  paper 
to    harden. 

Almond  Balls — I  lb.  almonds,  1  lb.  powdered 
sugar,  Cocoa.  Blanch  almonds  and  grind  very 
fine.  Mix  with  powdered  sugar  and  put  thru  food 
chopper  several  times.  Roll  in  small  balls  in  palms 
of  hands,   then  roll  in  cocoa. 

Persian  Paste — 1  lb.  dates,  1  lb.  figs,  I  lb. 
pecans,  powdered  sugar,  lemon  juice.  Put  dates, 
figs  and  pecans  thru  food  chopper.  Add  pow- 
dered sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  taste.  Uses:  1. 
Make  into  balls,  put  in  refrigerator  two  or  three 
days,  then  dip  in  hot  fudge.  2.  Split  unsalted 
crackers    and    spread   with   paste.      Serve  with    ice 


cream.       3.     Remove    stones    from    dates,    fill    with 
paste  and   roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Uncooked  Cake — Ya  lb.  nuts,  Ya  lb.  figs,  Ya  lb. 
dates,  Ya  lb.  raisins,  Ya  lb.  cocoanut.  Put  ingredi- 
ents thru  food  chopper  and  pack  closely  in  buttered 
pan.  Press  and  weight  and  let  stand  several  hours 
before  cutting. 

Candied  Cranberries —  1  Yl  c  large  firm  cran- 
berries, 2  c  sugar,  2  Yl  c  boiling  water.  Wash 
cranberries  and  make  three  slits  J/g  inch  long  with 
point  of  pen  knife  in  each.  Make  thin  sirup  of 
sugar  and  water,  cool,  add  the  berries  and  bring 
very  slowly  to  boiling  point.  As  soon  as  sirup 
boils,  remove  dish  from  stove  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Next  day,  drain  sirup  from  berries  and  boil 
sirup  until  reduced  to  half  its  original  volume.  Put 
berries  into  a  sirup  and  heat  slowly.  Boil  gently 
for  three  or  four  minutes,  then  allow  to  stand  for 
two  hours  or  more.  Boil  gently  a  third  time  for 
five  minutes.  A  smaller  dish  may  be  needed  for 
last  boiling.  On  the  following  day  drain  off  sirup 
and  spread  berries  on  sheet  of  waxed  paper.  When 
surface  is  dry  and  berries  cold,  store  in  glass  jars. 
The  berries  may  be  used  as  a  confection  and  in 
the  same  ways  that  candied  cherries  are  used.  The 
sirup  is  excellent  for  flavoring  and  coloring  pud- 
ding sauces  and  many  other  desserts. 

Candied  Grape  Fruit  Peel — Wash  peel  from 
three  grape  fruits.  Remove  any  portions  of  pulp 
adhering.  Cut  into  strips  Ya  inch  wide.  Soak 
over  night  in  one  quart  of  cold  water  to  which  has 
been  added  one  tablespoon  of  salt.  Drain,  place 
in  sauce  pan,  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring  to 
boiling.  Repeat  three  or  four  times  or  until  the 
bitter  taste  is  removed  and  the  peel  is  soft.  Drain 
and  weigh.  Make  sirup  using  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar  and  Yl  CUP  water.  When  sirup  is  thick  and 
heavy,  add  strips  and  cook  until  pieces  are  clear, 
lifting  pieces  from  time  to  time  that  they  may  not 
stick  to  pan.  Remove  to  plate  to  cool  and  roll 
each  piece  separately  in  powdered  or  granulated 
sugar.      When   entirely   cool   store  in    glass  jars. 


CLASS  29— CANDIES— RECIPES 


271 


CANDY  RECIPES— GENERAL 


Uncooked    Candy:    Plain   White   Fondant — Have 

all  ingredients  prepared  and  utensils  ready  before 
beginning  to  make  the  candy.  Roll  the  sugar  until 
smooth,  blanch  the  nuts,  seed  the  dates  or  raisins, 
melt  the  chocolate,  and  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  if 
necessary. 

1.  To  make  uncooked  candies  use  confectioner's 
sugar  or  ordinary  pulverized  sugar.  Roll  until 
smooth  on  the  bread  board.  Beat  slightly  whites 
of  eggs  with  2  tbsp.  cold  water.  Stir  in  enough 
sugar  to  make  a  smooth  stiff  paste. 

2.  Cream  J/3  cup  butter,  beat  in  J/J  cup  sifted 
or  rolled  confectioner's  sugar,  add  1  teasp.  boiling 
water,  stir  in  more  sugar,  add  1  Ya  teasp.  boiling 
water,  again  more  sugar  until  stiff  enough  to 
knead. 

3.  Beat  slightly  1  egg  white  with  a  pinch  of  salt, 
add  the  rolled  sugar  gradually  until  ready  to  form 
into  shapes. 

4.  Flavoring  or  coloring  should  be  worked  into 
the   paste   last. 

The  above  will  serve  as  a  foundation  for  many 
different  varieties  of  candies,  as  the  center  of 
chocolate  creams  or  stuffing  for  dates.  It  may  be 
formed  into  shapes  resembling  any  French  candies. 
The  balls  of  paste  may  be  worked  around  nuts, 
chopped  fruits  or  preserved  fruits,  marshmallows 
or   creamed   cocoanut. 

Chocolate  Creams — Form  white  fondant  into 
little  balls  size  of  a  marble  put  aside  to  harden  on 
waxed  paper.  Heat  some  confectioner's  dipping 
chocolate,  by  cutting  it  in  small  pieces  and  putting 
in  a  pan  over  hot  water.  When  melted  cool,  and 
either  beat  it  to  the  consistency  of  molasses  or  mix 
in  enough  beaten  white  of  egg  to  make  a  smooth 
thick  paste.  Dip  the  fondant  balls  into  the  choco- 
late paste  until  no  white  shows.  A  fork,  a  long 
straw  or  a  wire,  shaped  like  a  spoon,  or  even  the 
fingers,  may  be  used  to  dip  and  remove  the  choco- 
late creams.  Put  aside  to  cool  on  heavy  paraffin 
paper. 

Fruit  and  Nut  Creams — Press  halves  of  English 
walnuts  on  each  side  of  a  ball  of  flavored  fondant, 
or  knead  ground  nut-meats  into  the  paste  and  roll 
into  balls,  decorate  with  a  nut,  or  tiny  piece  of 
candied  fruit.  To  cover  the  fondant  balls  with 
chopped  cocoanut  dip  first  into  slightly  beaten 
white  of  egg  then  into  the  cocoanut. 

Chop  citron,  dates,  figs,  currants,  candied  orange 
peel,  raisins  or  any  candied  fruit  to  make  fruit 
creams.  Knead  fruit  into  the  fondant,  form  into 
balls,    or   flat   bars,    and   set   aside   to   harden. 

Fancy  Midget  Candies  (Uncooked) — Roll  out 
fresh  fondant  to  J4  inch  thickness  flavored  first 
with  wintergreen  or  peppermint,  cinnamon, 
almond,  ginger,  extract  and  colored  if  desired  witn 


fruit  coloring.  Cut  the  rolled  out  paste  into  small 
rounds    roll    in    granulated    sugar. 

Cooked — Melt  J/J  cup  red  currant  jelly  in  pan, 
add  1  cup  sugar,  boil  until  it  spins  a  thread,  add  3 
tbsp.  gelatine  dissolved  in  %  c"P  cold  water  and 
1  tbsp.  rose  extract.  Pour  into  shallow  buttered 
pan,  sprinkle  with  chopped  pistachio  nuts.  When 
cold  and  firm  cut  into  small  rounds  and  roll  in  rose 
colored  sugar. 

To  Salt  Peanuts  and  Almonds  (To  Blanch  Nut*) 

— Cover  raw  peanuts  or  almonds  with  cold  water, 
bring  just  to  the  boiling  point,  drain  and  slip  skins 
from  the  nuts  by  pressing  between  thumb  and  fore- 
finger. Dry  thoroughly  on  paper.  Heat  oil  or 
butter  or  any  clear  vegetable  cooking  fat  until  it 
will  brown  a  bit  of  bread  in  30  seconds.  Dip  the 
nuts  a  few  at  a  time  in  the  oil  and  quickly  remove 
when  a  faint  light  brown.  Spread  on  brown  paper 
and  sprinkle  lightly  with  fine  salt. 

To  Salt  Walnuts,  Pecans  and  Filberts — These  are 
harder  to  blanch  than  almonds  and  peanuts,  but 
proceed  in  the  same  way.  After  skins  are  re- 
moved, dry  several  hours,  beat  an  egg  white  and 
rub  each  nut  lightly  with  it;  sprinkle  with  fine 
salt,  lay  on  paraffin  paper  and  slightly  brown  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Candied   Orange   or   Grape   Fruit  Peel — Put   the 

peel  from  4  oranges  in  boiling  water,  boil  till  ten- 
der, changing  the  water  twice.  Drain.  Scrape 
out  the  white  part,  cut  the  yellow  pieces  in  strips, 
weigh,  and  to  every  lb.  of  peel  use  I  lb.  sugar,  J/J 
cup  water.  Cook  water  and  sugar  until  it  spins  a 
thread,  add  peel,  simmer  until  transparent.  Drain, 
roll  each  piece  in  sugar,  dry  in  warm  oven.  Grape 
fruit  peel  may  be  candied  the  same  way. 

Fruit  Paste — 1.  Grind  in  the  food  chopper  I 
cup  each  of  seeded  raisins,  dates,  figs,  and  enough 
nuts  to  make  J4  CUP  ground.  Add  1  tbsp.  brown 
sugar  mixed  with  I  tbsp.  orange  juice.  Roll  this 
paste  into  a  long  round  stick  1  inch  in  diameter. 
Put  on  the  bread  board  dusted  with  powdered  sugar 
and  cut  the  roll  into  candies  J/£  inch  thick.  Sugar 
coat  each  one  and  put  away  to  keep  in  a  tin  box. 

2.  Boil  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  tbsp.  butter 
together  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  Add  I  lb.  of  chopped  fruit,  raisins, 
dates  or  figs,  and  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Beat  until 
creamy.  Knead  till  stiff,  roll  and  cut  in  same  way 
as  No.  1,  or  shape  into  a  loaf  and  slice  when 
needed. 

Stuffed  Dates,  Figs  or  Prunes — Make  a  mixture 
of  I  egg  white,  '/4  cup  orange  juice,  I  teasp. 
lemon  juice  and  enough  powdered  sugar  to  form 
a  paste,  or  use  a  plain  fondant.  Work  into  the 
paste,   chopped  nut  meats.      Add  preserved   ginger 


272        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


or  Maraschino  cherries,  marshmallows,  bits  of  pre- 
served fruit  or  even  a  little  peanut  butter.  Stuff 
the  dates,  figs  or  prunes  with  this  paste  and  roll 
them    in    granulated   sugar. 

Fruit  Kisses — Beat  1  or  2  egg  whites  very  stiff, 
add  I  cup  brown  sugar  or  white  powdered  sugar, 
Yt  teasp.  flavoring.  Add  I  cup  chopped  nuts  or 
candied  fruits,  dates  or  figs,  or  I  cup  of  both. 
The  kisses  must  be  of  the  consistency  to  drop 
stiffly  off  the  spoon  on  to  a  buttered  pan.  Place 
them  several  inches  apart  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until    lightly   browned. 

Panacha     or    Mexican    Kisses Mix     I     lb.     dark 

brown  sugar  with  Yl  cup  cream  in  a  pan  over  the 
fire.  Stir  until  it  boils.  Cook  to  a  soft  ball.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  stir  in  I  cup  of  unbroken  pecan 
meats.  When  the  sugar  becomes  granulated  drop 
the   candy   in   little    flat   cakes   on   waxed   paper. 

Peanut  Bars — Beat  together  in  the  order  men- 
tioned 1  cup  minced  roasted  peanuts,  1  stiff  egg 
white,  I  cup  brown  sugar,  Ya  teasp.  salt,  Yl  teasp. 
vanilla.  Spread  on  a  buttered  pan.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven.      Cut  in  bars. 

Opera  Creams — Mix  well  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup 
of  top  cream  from  a  qt.  of  milk,  Yi  teasp.  cream 
of  tartar.  Cook  without  stirring  until  a  soft  ball 
may  be  formed  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  a  deep 
warm  bowl.  When  nearly  cool,  beat  till  creamy, 
knead  on  a  board  till  smooth,  dredge  the  board 
with  powdered  sugar  if  the  candy  sticks.  Nut 
meats  or  chopped  fruits  may  be  put  in  while  knead- 
ing, or  roll  paste  into  bonbons  and  decorate  with 
nuts  or  bits  of  candied  fruits.  <« 

Peppermints  and  Wintergreen  Candies — 1.  Heat 
Yl  cup  milk  or  thin  cream,  2  cups  sugar,  5  drops 
of  oil  of  peppermint,  or  essence  of  wintergreen. 
Stir  until  dissolved,  then  boil  for  3  minutes  without 
stirring,  then  beat  until  creamy.  When  cooling, 
drop  on  waxed  paper. 

2.  Make  a  stiff  paste  by  beating  together  con- 
fectioner's sugar  and  2  tbsp.  cream,  6  drops  of 
essence  of  peppermint  or  wintergreen.  Make  into 
flat  balls  topped  with  a  walnut  meat;  or,  roll  the 
candy  out  lightly  and  cut  with  a  sharp  cutter  about 
the  size   of  a   fifty-cent  piece. 

Lemon  Drops — Stir  over  a  hot  fire  until  thor- 
oughly heated,  I  cup  sugar,  2/3  cup  water,  1 
teasp.  cream  of  tartar.  Then  boil  briskly  until 
candy  is  hard  and  brittle  if  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Add  1  tbsp.  lemon  juice  or  extract,  boil  up  once 
to  distribute  evenly  the  lemon,  pour  into  buttered 
plates.  When  cool  enough  to  handle  form  into 
drops,  sticks  or  thin  squares.  Handle  as  little  as 
possible  to  prevent  destroying  the  transparency 
of  the  candy. 


Butter  Scotch — Boil  quickly  1  cup  brown  sugar, 
2/3  cup  water,  1  tbsp.  vinegar,  1  tbsp.  butter, 
until  it  becomes  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold 
water.  Pour  into  buttered  pans  when  cold,  break 
into    pieces. 

Maple  Horehound — To  1  pint  water  add  a  light 
cupful  of  horehound  herbs.  Boil  30  minutes, 
strain,  pressing  juice  from  herbs.  Add  to  this 
liquid  3  cups  brown,  or  maple  sugar.  As  it  boils 
up  put  in  J4  teasp.  cream  of  tartar  and  boil  until 
very  brittle  in  cold  water,  add  1  tbsp.  butter  or 
less,  and  pour  out  on  a  flat  greased  dish.  When 
nearly  cold  cut  into  squares  or  tiny  rounds  with 
a   sharp   cutter. 

Chocolate  Caramels — I.  Cook  together  1  cup 
sugar,  Yl  cup  milk,  Yl  cup  butter.  Stir  until  it 
forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Add  1  cup  mo- 
lasses and  cook  until  it  forms  a  very  firm  ball 
when  tested  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
platter  until  Yl  inch  thick.  When  cool  mark  the 
caramels  into  squares.  For  chocolate  flavored  add 
melted    sweetened    chocolate    with    the    molasses. 

2.  Mix  1  cup  white  sugar,  I  cup  brown  sugar, 
or  maple  if  chocolate  is  not  used,  '/g  lb.  chocolate, 
!4  cup  milk,  Y%  lb.  butter.  Boil  until  it  hardens 
in  cold  water,  about  20  minutes.  Stir  all  the  time 
if  you  wish  the  caramels  to  be  crumby." 

Old  Fashioned  Molasses  Candy — I.  In  a  kettle 
holding  4  times  the  amount  of  molasses  to  be  used 
pour  I  pt.  good  "New  Orleans"  molasses.  Boil 
over  a  slow  fire  30  minutes,  stirring  to  keep  con- 
tents from  boiling  over.  Be  careful  not  to  burn 
the  candy.  When  some  dropped  in  cold  water  be- 
comes quickly  hard  and  brittle  add  '/4  teasp.  soda, 
stir  once  to  mix  and  pour  on  greased  plates.  When 
nearly  cool  pull  pieces  of  the  candy  back  and  forth 
with  the  tips  of  fingers  buttered  to  prevent  stick- 
ing. When  candy  is  a  bright  yellowish  brown  color 
it   is   "pulled"    through. 

2.  Dissolve  1  cup  sugar  in  Yl  CUP  vinegar,  mix 
with  I  qt.  molasses  and  boil  stirring  often,  until 
it  hardens  when  dropped  from  a  spoon  into  cold 
water.  Then  stir  in  I  slight  tbsp.  butter,  1  teasp. 
soda  dissolved  in  I  teasp.  water.  Flavor  to  taste, 
stir  once  and  pour  out  into  buttered  dishes.  As  it 
cools  cut  into  squares  for  "taffy"  or  pull  with  the 
fingers  until  it  is  white. 

3.  Boil  together  2  cups  brown  sugar,  I  cup  mo- 
lasses, Yl  cup  water,  2  tbsp.  vinegar.  When  crisp 
if  dropped  in  cold  water  add  1  tbsp.  butter,  Yl 
teasp.    soda,    stir    1    minute,    cool   and   pull. 

Chocolate  Chips — Take  I  cup  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, 2/3  cup  sugar,  1  teasp.  butter,  flavor  with 
vanilla.  Boil  until  hard,  pull  out  thin  and  cut  in 
small  pieces.  When  cold  and  hard  dip  in  hot 
melted  chocolate  sweetened  and  flavored.  Lay  on 
waxed    paper. 


CLASS  29— CANDIES— RECIPES 


273 


Popcorn  Candy — The  popcorn  must  be  freshly 
popped  to  use  in  candies  or  it  will  taste  tough. 
To  secure  snow  white  fluffy  popcorn  kernels,  put 
only  enough  corn  grains  in  trie  popper  to  cover 
the  bottom,  hold  high  over  a  hot  flame  shaking 
all  the  time  so  the  kernels  will  not  scorch.  The 
popped  corn  may  be  sprinkled  with  melted  butter 
and  salt  while  hot,  or  sugared  in  different  ways. 

1.  Plain  Sugared: — Boil  until  it  threads  1  cup 
sugar,  Yl  teacup  water.  Pour  over  about  3  qts. 
popped  corn. 

2.  Colored — For  yellow  flavor  the  syrup  with 
lemon  or  orange;  for  red  or  pink,  flavor  with  rose 
extract,  beet  juice  or  cranberry  juice;  for  green, 
crushed  spinach  leaves  will  bring  enough  juice  to 
color  the   syrup. 

3.  Chocolate  Sugared — Make  a  syrup  of  1  cup 
sugar,  1  square  chocolate,  Yl  teasp.  butter,  Ya  cup 
water;  or,  1  cup  sugar,  Ya  cup  corn-syrup,  1  oz. 
chocolate,  Yl  cup  water.  When  it  threads  flavor 
with  vanilla  and  pour  over  3  qts.  popped  corn, 
stir  well. 

Popcorn  Kisses — With  a  very  sharp  chopper,  cut 
up  fluffy  popped  corn  kernels.  Use  only  crisp 
ones.  If  necessary  put  them  through  a  meat 
chopper  with  I  cup  nutmeats.  Beat  3  egg  whites 
very  stiff,  stir  in  sugar  to  the  proportion  of  Yi 
cup  powdered  sugar  to  1  egg  white  to  be  used 
with  1/3  cup  chopped  corn,  1/3  cup  nutmeats. 
Beat  the  sugar  into  the  whites  for  5  minutes.  Add 
a  little  at  a  time  the  nutmeats  and  popcorn.  Mix 
well  and  drop  on  buttered  paper.  Bake  in  slow 
oven    about    20    minutes. 

White  Fudge Boil   for  about    5   minutes   2    cups 

white  sugar,  1  cup  milk;  when  it  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  cold  water  take  from  stove  and 
add  1  teasp.  vanilla,  1  tbsp.  butter.  Beat  until 
stiff,   or  until  it   "fudges." 

Chopped  nuts  or  dates  or  preserved  cherries 
beaten   into   the   fudge   are   a   delicious  addition. 

Chocolate  fudge  is  made  by  adding  2  teasp. 
cocoa,  or  chocolate  to  white  fudge  before  the  but- 
ter is  put  in. 


Fudge  Made  with  Canned  Milk Put  into  a  cook- 
ing pan  2  cups  sugar,  2  squares  of  bitter  choco- 
late, butter  size  of  an  egg,  about  2/3  cup  canned 
milk.  Boil  this  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water 
will  form  a  soft  ball.  Take  off  the  fire,  add  1  teasp. 
vanilla  and  stir  until  thick.  Pour  into  buttered 
pans,  cut  into  squares.  Chopped  nutmeats  may  be 
added    as    the    candy   begins    to   thicken. 

Many  delicious  cream  candies  are  made  by  us- 
ing canned  milk  with  a  little  additional  water  to 
the  recipes  calling  for  milk,  or  plain  canned  milk 
in  place  of  cream.  Only  the  best  brands  of  canned 
milk    should    ever   be    used. 

Orange  Fudge — Mix  2  cups  white  sugar,  2/3 
cup  milk,  1  big  tbsp.  butter,  juice  of  Yl  orange, 
with  its  grated  rind.  Boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage. 
Remove  from  fire,  beat  till  creamy.  Drop  on  but- 
tered  dish  or   waxed   paper. 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge — Mix  2  cups  sugar,  2  tbsp. 
peanut  butter,  Yl  CUP  milk.  Boil  until  a  bit  of 
it  in  cold  water  forms  a  soft  ball.  Add  Yl  teasp. 
vanilla.  Cool,  beat  till  creamy.  Pour  into  but- 
tered   pans;   when    nearly    set,    cut    into    squares. 

Tutti-Frutti      Fudge 1.    Boil      together       1       cup 

sugar,  Yl  CUP  cream,  2  squares  of  chocolate.  Stir 
until  boiling  and  chocolate  is  melted.  When  it 
forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water  add  1  tbsp.  butter. 
Take  it  from  the  fire  and  beat  for  1 0  or  more 
minutes,  adding  toward  the  last  some  chopped  can- 
died cherries  or  other  candied  preserved  or  crys- 
tallized   fruits.       Cut   into   squares   before   it   cools. 

2.  In  the  same  way  boil  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
water,  1  teasp.  almond  flavoring.  When  done  add 
chopped  almonds  and  candied  cherries,  cut  into 
bits.  Beat  till  creamy,  pour  into  buttered  pans, 
cool   and    cut   into    shape. 

Cocoanut    Cream    Candy Mix    2    teasp.    butter, 

3  cups  sugar,  Ya  teasp.  cream  of  tartar,  1  cup 
canned  milk,  1  cup  water;  or,  if  fresh  milk  is  used 
instead  of  canned  milk  take  2  cups  of  milk.  Stir 
only  until  boiling  point  is  reached  and  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage,  add  Ya,  teasp. 
vanilla,  Yl  CUP  shredded  cocoanut,  cool  quickly. 
When  cold  beat  till  creamy  and  drop  from  a  spoon 
on    waxed    paper. 


274        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^iiiiiiMiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimMiiiiiiiiiMiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiii^ 


CLASS  30 


Drtota 


BEVERAGES 


HllllllllllMIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIINIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlTlllllllllllllllUllllllir 

Afternoon  Tea — The  charm  of  a  cup  of  tea,  or  any  hot  drink  lies  first  in  its  delicate 
brew,   and  steaming  hotness,  second  in  its  dainty  service. 

Select  green  tea,  or  Orange  Pekoe,  or  one  of  the  Ceylon  teas.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  the  leaves  in  a  hot  tea  pot,  using  one  slight  teasp.  tea  leaves  to  each  cup  water.  Al- 
low it  to  remain  a  few  minutes,  until  the  tea  is  the  strength  to  suit.  Strain  into  thin  cups. 
Serve,  with  an  attractive  garnish,  as  thin  slices  of  lemon,  bits  of  crystallized  ginger,  or  mar- 
aschino cherries,  and  accompanied  by  lemon  wafers,  dainty  sandwiches  or  cakes,  sugar  and 
cream. 

A  more  delicate  flavor  may  be  secured  by  pouring  the  boiling  water  over  the  tea  in 
a  tea-ball.      This  is  more  convenient  for  some,  and  is  thought  to  be  more  economical. 

When  arranging  a  proper  equipment  for  an  afternoon  tea  table,  simplicity  and  dainti- 
ness should  characterize  it.  Use  a  table  just  high  enough  for  convenience  in  serving  and 
large  enough  to  hold  the  few  necessary  things  without  crowding.  The  tray  may  contain 
the  swinging  kettle  of  boiling  water,  the  teapot,  the  tea  balls  and  dish,  the  cream  and  sugar. 
This  leaves  room  on  the  table  for  a  tasteful  arrangement  of  any  other  China,  linen  or  silver 
necessary,  cups,  saucers,  and  small  plates  for  sandwiches,  and  garnishes  if  served.  All  linen 
used  should  be  the  daintiest  one  has,  the  silver,  the  best;  and  the  China  the  most  attractive. 


RECIPES— GENERAL 


Coffee — Good  coffee  making  is  an  art  that  seems 
difficult  for  some  to  acquire.  Several  points  must 
be  carefully  noted  and  followed  to  always  get 
good    results. 

1.  Keep  the  coffee  pot  sweet  and  clean.  Wash 
as  soon  after  using  as  possible.  Once  a  week  fill 
2/3  with  water,  add  1  tbsp.  baking  soda,  boil  1 
hr.    rinse   and  wipe    clean. 

2.  Select  a  good  brand  of  coffee  that  will  al- 
ways be  the  same  blend.  A  popular  mixture  is 
2/3  Java    1/3    Mocha. 

3.  Use  fresh  water.  Water  that  has  been  boiled 
long  becomes  flat  and  stale  and  does  not  unite  with 
the   coffee   in   a    delicious   blend. 

4.  Decide  on  one  method  of  making  coffee  and 
make  it   carefully  each  time. 

Boiled  Coffee — Have  medium  fine  ground  coffee. 
Allow  I  heaping  tbsp.  to  each  cup  water  and  1 
extra  tbsp.  coffee  for  the  pot.  Put  the  coffee  in 
pot  add  the  quantity  of  cold  water,  1  cup  to  each 
person  served  and  one  extra.  Bring  to  a  boil.  To 
get  the  full  strength  from  the  coffee  let  it  boil  until 
it  is  as  strong  as  desired,  or;  let  boil  up  three  times. 
Remove  to  a  hot  electric  plate,  settle  with  dash  of 


cold  water  or  crushed  egg  shells.  Never  let  hot 
coffee  stay  on  the  coffee  grounds  when  settled. 
Pour  off  into  a  hot  urn  and  serve. 

Drip  Coffee — For  this  method  the  coffee  must 
be  ground  very  fine,  almost  to  a  powder.  Use  only 
1  teasp.  coffee  to  a  cup,  and  one  extra  for  the  pot, 
being  half  as  much  as  for  boiled  coffee.  Put  coffee 
in  a  piece  of  clean  cheese  cloth,  pour  boiling  water 
through  it  slowly.  This  makes  a  very  delicate 
coffee  and  clear. 

Percolator  Coffee — Put  medium  fine  ground 
coffee  in  upper  part  percolator,  1  tbsp.  to  each 
cup  and  I  tbsp.  extra.  Put  the  boiling  water  in 
lower  part  of  percolator.  Cover.  Place  over  fira 
and  let  water  percolate  up  through  the  coffee. 
Test  its  strength  by  pouring  a  little  out  into  a  cup. 
When  just  right  set  aside  to  settle.      Serve. 

After  Dinner  Coffee — When  coffee  is  served  for 
after  dinner  or  at  the  afternoon  tea  hour  it  should 
be  of  extra  strength  and  diluted  with  hot  water  to 
suit  individual  tastes. 

To  make  Vienna  coffee,  serve  it  with  whipped 
cream  piled  in  each  cup. 


275 


2  76       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Cafe  au  lait  is  made  of  equal  parts  of  strong 
coffee  and  hot  milk  added  either  at  time  of  mak- 
ing or  when  it  is  poured. 

Serve  buttered  hot  Sally  Lunn  with  hot  afternoon 
coffee,  or  toasted  and  buttered  raisin  bread,  coffee 
cake,  frosted  ginger  bread,  wafers,  cake  or  savory 
sandwiches. 

A  Good  Cereal  Beverage — This  is  especially 
palatable  and  nourishing  for  children  for  whom  a 
hot  drink  is  desired.  They  should  never  be  given 
tea,  coffee,  or  even  cocoa  which  is  really  a  food 
and  too  heavy  for  even  an  adult  as  a  drink. 

Take  3  lbs.  whole  wheat,  1  lb.  whole  barley, 
1  cup  ground  chickory,  3  tbsp.  molasses,  3  tbsp. 
butter.  Roast  wheat  and  barley  till  brown,  stir- 
ring constantly  to  avoid  scorching.  Roast  separ- 
ately as  they  vary  in  time  required.  When  as  dark 
as  roasted  coffee,  add  butter  and  molasses  to  the 
two  together,  stirring  all  until  grains  are  dry  and 
are  separated.  Remove  from  oven,  and  when  cold 
add    the    chickory.       Grind    in    coffee    mill. 

To  make:  Use  2  tbsp.  to  I  J/J  cups  cold  water 
per  person.  Boil  gently  1  hour.  Serve  with  sugar 
and    cream    or    milk. 

Spiced  Cocoa — Scald  1  qt.  milk.  Melt  3  heap- 
ing tbsp.  cocoa,  3  tbsp.  sugar,  few  grains  salt,  in 
J/J  cup  boiling  water  until  smooth.  Add  remain- 
ing J/J  cup  boiling  water,  boil  up  once.  Combine 
this  with  the  scalded  milk.  Add  J/J  teasp.  vanilla, 
J/J  teasp.  cinnamon.  Beat  well,  serve  very  hot 
with  whipped  cream.  Pass  vanilla  wafers,  mac- 
aroons   or    lady    fingers. 

Chocolate Chocolate  or   cocoa   should  be  made 

rich  and  beaten  vigorously  to  mix  the  chocolate 
well   and   to   prevent    formation    of   scum. 

1.  Mix  J/J  cup  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa  with 
J/J  cup  sugar.  Stir  smooth  in  I  cup  boiling  water. 
Add  I  more  cup  water  and  put  on  to  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Add  3  cups  rich  milk,  boil  up  once, 
beat  hard  for  a  minute.  A  beaten  egg  may  be 
added  to  give  more  body  and  richness.  Serve  hot 
with  spoonful  whipped  cream  to  each  cup.  Marsh- 
mallow  cream  may  be  substituted  or  2  marsh- 
mallows   to   a    cup.      Serve  with   cinnamon   toast. 

2.  A  simple  rule  for  two  or  three  cups  chocolate 
is    1    teasp.    grated   chocolate  to    I    teasp.    sugar  and 

1  cup  milk;  adding  1  cup  boiling  water  to  the  pot. 
Boil   up    several    times,    beat,    serve. 

Hot   Mulled   Cider Heat    1    qt.    cider   to    boiling 

point.  Pour  it  slowly  over  3  beaten  eggs  and  J/J 
cup  sugar.  Beat  well.  Bring  again  to  a  boil.  Re- 
move and  serve  in  glasses  heated  in  warm  water 
to   prevent   cracking. 

For  spiced  cider  add  J/J  teasp.  sweet  whole  spices 
before  bringing  to  a  boil.  Remove  spices  before 
serving. 

Iced  Drinks  or  Unfermented  Drinks — For  a  cool- 
ing  drink   during   the  warm   days  nothing  is  so   re- 


freshing as  fruit  juices,  lightly  sweetened  and 
diluted.  These  are  quickly  prepared,  and  such  a 
variety  of  delicious  beverages  are  possible  with 
the  many  different  fruits  of  the  summer  that  one 
need  never  tire  of  this  form  of  refreshment.  For 
those  who  have  not  time  to  prepare  a  combination 
fresh  fruit  beverage,  there  are  bottled  juices  of 
excellent  quality  on  the  market  that  may  be  simply 
diluted    with    iced    water. 

Attractive  service  of  an  iced  drink  is  as  impor- 
tant as  the  delicate  blending  of  the  delicious  juices. 
To  be  pleasing  to  the  eye  as  well  as  the  palate  it 
should  be  served  in  sparkling  glasses,  thin  and  of 
attractive  shape.  Dainty,  white  paper  napkins  and 
straws  tend  to  add  to  the  impression  of  coolness. 
If  a  more  elaborate  arrangement  is  desired,  the 
glasses  may  be  placed  on  one  of  the  new  trays 
with  embroidered  napery,  a  dish  of  fruit  sand- 
wiches perhaps,  and  a  small  basket  of  flowers. 

The  fruit  drinks  besides  being  thirst  quenchers 
are  by  nature  of  their  acid  contents  invigorating 
and  healthful.  They  arouse  the  appetite,  stimu- 
late the  various  organs  of  digestion  and  elimina- 
tion, the  stomach,  intestines,  skin,  liver  and  kid- 
neys, and  increase  the  phosphates  in  the  blood. 
They  are  not  only  invigorating  and  health  promot- 
ing for  the  well,  but  are  sources  of  great  benefit 
in    some   illnesses    and    to    the    convalescent. 

Iced  Tea  and  Coffee  should  be  made  strong  and 
drawn  off  their  leaves  at  once  to  be  put  aside  to 
cool.  Dilute  when  ice  cold  with  iced  water.  Serve 
in  tall  thin  glasses  with  slices  of  lemon  or  cream. 

Iced    Chocolate Make    a    rich    chocolate,    cool, 

add  I  teasp.  vanilla.  Dilute  if  necessary  with 
ice  cold  water,  or  if  ice  supply  is  known  to  be 
pure,  half  fill  thin  glasses  with  crushed  ice  and 
pour  chocolate  over.  Top  each  glass  with  whipped 
cream    sprinkled    with    cinnamon    or    ground    nuts. 

Cocoanut  Milk — This  is  a  favorite  drink  for 
children.  Put  I  grated  fresh  cocoanut  in  I  qt. 
water.  Bring  to  boil,  then  simmer  gently  5  min- 
utes. Strain,  sweeten,  chill.  Add  Ya  cocoanut 
juice  to  J/J  rnilk  in  tall  glass.  Top  with  spoonful 
whipped  cream  flavored  with  nutmeg  or  cinna- 
mon; or:  Add  I  egg,  yolk  and  white  beaten  sep- 
arately, to  every  pint  of  milk.  Fill  glass  half  full 
with  this  eggnog.  Stir  in  J/3  glass  of  the  sweetened 
cocoanut   milk.      Top  with   cream    and   nutmeg. 

Eggnog — Scald  I  cup  milk  with  several  fresh 
mint  leaves,  strain,  cool.  Beat  I  egg  yolk  with  1 
teasp.  sugar;  beat  the  whites  stiff;  whip  cream 
to  Yl  cupful;  fold  the  yoke,  white  and  cream  into 
the   milk. 

Irish  Moss — Wash  1  oz.  Irish  moss  thoroughly, 
and  soak  over  night.  Then  lift  it  out  and  put  on 
to  boil  in  2  qts.  water.  Simmer  several  hours. 
Strain,  add  2  tbsp.  sugar  and  fruit  juice  which  may 


CLASS  30— DRINKS— RECIPES 


277 


be  either  I  teasp.  lemon  juice  and  2  tbsp.  orange 
juice,  or  grape  juice.  This  is  very  nutritious  and 
may   be   served    to    little    children. 

Grape  Juice  Dainty — Another  nutritious  and 
stimulating  drink  for  a  child  is;  2  tbsp.  grape  juice 
to  each  glass,  2  tbsp.  cold  water,  1  teasp.  pow- 
dered sugar  stirred  in  with    1    beaten  white  of  egg. 

The  fresh  juice  of  strawberries  or  raspberries 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  grape  juice. 

Honolulu  Tea — Add  1  or  2  tbsp.  pineapple  juice 
to  a  glass  of  iced  tea  with  sliced  lemon.  Serve  in 
place   of  iced   fruit   cocktail   at  beginning   of  meal. 

Ceylon  Frappe — Peel  several  oranges,  remove 
thin  skin  between  layers  and  shred  the  pulp.  Place 
this  in  small  bowl  in  layers  with  I  cup  crushed 
fresh  mint  leaves.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  pow- 
dered sugar,  Yl  cupful  in  all.  Pour  over  all,  the 
juice  of  2  lemons  and  I  cup  cold  tea.  Set  aside 
to  chill  and  ripen.  Dilute  at  serving  time  with 
cold    water    or    Appollinaris. 

Quick  Lemonade — Strain  juice  of  6  lemons. 
Combine  with  1  cup  sugar  and  add  cold  water  to 
the  desired  strength.  Pour  this  over  crushed  ice 
in  tall  thin   glasses. 

Lemonade  Extract  or  Syrup — Grate  rind  of  I 
lemon.  Strain  juice  of  1 2  lemons.  Boil  2  cups 
sugar  with  1  cup  water  until  sugar  dissolves,  add 
the  grated  rind  and  the  lemon  juice.  Simmer  5 
minutes.  Cool,  put  on  ice.  When  time  to  serve 
add   cold  water  to  taste. 

Egg  Lemonade Beat  2  eggs,  add   Yl   CUP  sugar, 

juice  4  lemons  and  grated  rind  if  liked;  stir  all  until 
sugar  is  dissolved,  add  4  cups  cold  water  and  chill 
on  ice. 

The  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  may  be 
whipped  separately.  Combine  the  yolks,  sugar, 
lemon  juice  and  water.  Chill  and  when  ready  to 
serve  stir   in   the   stiff   whites. 

Iced  Ginger  Tea — Make  a  tea  of  2  quarts  water 
and  3  tbsp.  ginger.  Boil  12  minutes,  cool,  and 
sweeten  with  chilled  lemonade  syrup.  Add  ice 
water.  Serve  in  ice  tea  glasses  with  quarter  of 
thin  lemon  slice  on  top. 

If  more  of  a  punch  is  desired  add  2  tbsp. 
shredded  pineapple  or  orange. 

To  make  Grape  Juice — Use  10  lbs.  grapes,  2 
qts.  water.  Boil  10  minutes.  Put  in  cheese  cloth 
bag  and  allow  juice  to  drip  for  several  hours. 
Do  not  squeeze.  Add  2  lbs.  sugar  to  juice,  boil 
up  once,  bottle  tight.  For  more  minute  directions 
see   Canning  Section. 

Cream  Grape  Juice  Cordial — Soak  crushed  mint 
leaves  in  orange  juice  1  5  minutes,  or  add  leaves  to 
crushed   ice   in   the   glasses. 

1.    Mix    fruit    juices    in    the    proportion    of     1/3 


orange  juice  to  2/3  sweet  grape  juice.  Fill  glasses 
2/3  full  and  top  with  whipped  cream  flavored  del- 
icately with  orange  extract.  Serve  with  orange 
wafers;  or: 

2.  Omit  orange  juice  from  recipe.  Serve  the 
grape  juice  and  mint  leaves  with  whipped  cream. 
Sprinkle   with    nutmeg. 

Grape  Punch — I.  Boil  for  5  minutes,  2  cups 
sugar,  3  cups  water,  juice  of  I  lemon  and  I  orange. 
Strain  and  make  ice  cold.  Add  2  cups  fresh  grape 
juice.  Dilute  with  water  if  necessary.  Fold  in  1 
stiffly  beaten  white   of  egg.      Serve  at  once. 

2.  I  qt.  grape  juice  added  to  1  gallon  plain 
lemonade  makes  a  good  punch.  Add  fresh  grapes 
cut   in    half   and    seeded. 

3.  Mix    1    pt.    grape  juice,    1    pt.   water,   juices   of 

1  lemon,  1  orange,  1  small  cup  sugar.  Diced 
pineapple  and  juice  may  be  added. 

Fruit  Punch Punch  is  made  of  any  combina- 
tions of  fruits  and  fruit  juices  according  to  taste 
and  convenience.  Sugar  and  charged  water  are 
added;   spices,   mints,    or   extracts   if  desired. 

Reception    Punch — Slice    6    lemons,    6    oranges, 

2  cups  Maraschino  cherries.  Cut  in  small  pieces 
1  pineapple,  preserved  ginger,  Yl  cup,  fresh  rasp- 
berries and  strawberries  2  cups  each,  preserved 
orange  peel  Yl  cup.  Sprinkle  2  cups  sugar  through 
the  fruit  and  juices,  stand  on  ice  I  or  2  hours, 
then  add  3  qts.  ice  cold  water  and  4  bananas  sliced. 

Fruit  Syrup — Have  equal  quantity  of  sugar, 
water,  and  juices  from  any  one  kind  of  fruit  or 
berry.  Boil  until  a  clear  syrup,  1 5  minutes  or 
more;  add  the  fruit  juice,  simmer  30  minutes. 
Bottle  and  seal  while  hot.  When  a  certain  fruit 
not  in  season  is  desired  to  add  to  punch  its  flavor 
may  be  had   by  using   its   fruit   syrup. 

Washington  Punch — Dissolve  1  cup  sugar  in  1 
cup  hot  tea,  add  !  cup  of  fruit  juices  mixed. 
Strain,  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  add  I  pt. 
Appollinaris  water,  I  pt.  iced  water,  some  chopped 
fruit    and    Maraschino    cherries. 

August  Spiced  Punch — This  is  quickly  made  by 
using  fruit  syrup.  In  2  cups  water  put  bits  of 
whole  spices,  cloves,  ginger.  Add  1  cup  straw- 
berry syrup.  Simmer  2  minutes,  cool.  Add 
strained  juices  of  2  lemons,  1  orange;  add  ice  water 
to  taste. 

Yellow    Pineapple    Punch Make    a    syrup    of    2 

cups  sugar,  2  cups  water,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
and  2  oranges,  juice  of  1  large  can  pineapple. 
Simmer   gently    1 0   minutes,   strain.   Add  juice  from 

3  lemons,  4  oranges  sliced,  diced  pineapple  from 
1  can.  Mix  with  1  qt.  charged  -water.  Pour  all 
over  a  piece  of  ice  in  a  punch  bowl. 

If  retaining  a  pineapple  color  to  the  punch  is 
not    important,    add    2    cups   berry   juice    or    halved 


2  78       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


fresh  berries;    I    cup  of  tea  is  also  a  pleasing  addi- 
tion. 

Raspberry  Mint  Punch — Make  a  mint  tea  of  1 
qt.  fresh  crushed  mint  leaves  and  2  cups  boiling 
water.  Simmer  1 0  minutes.  Add  1  cup  sweet 
grape  juice  or  I  cup  raspberry  syrup.  If  fresh 
fruit  is  used  instead  of  the  fruit  syrup,  add  I  cup 
fresh  raspberry  juice;  make  a  syrup  of  1  cup 
sugar  with  3  cups  water.  Pour  all  together  and 
put  aside  to  ripen  and  to  chill.      Strain  and  serve. 

Mint  Cordial — Strain  juice  of  2  lemons,  pour 
it  over  a  cup  of  chopped  and  crushed  mint  leaves, 
soak  about  40  minutes.  Make  syrup  of  2  cups 
sugar,  3  cups  water  until  it  spins  a  thread,  add 
lemon  juice  and  mint  and  I  cup  fruit  or  berry 
juice  preferably  that  of  light  color  as  orange,  pine- 
apple, canned  apricot.  Dilute  with  water  or  pour 
over  crushed  ice  in  tall  glasses. 

Apricot  or  Peach  Nectar — Rub  through  a  sieve 
apricots  from  1  can,  or  the  pulp  of  the  fresh  very 
ripe  fruit,  apricots  or  peaches.  Let  stand  with 
cold  water  poured  over  and  2  cups  sugar.  If 
peaches  are  used  add  almond  extract  or  Maras- 
chino cherries  and  juice,  and  juice  of  2  lemons. 
If  apricots  are  used,  add  juice  of  4  oranges. 


Cranberry  Nectar — Cook  2  cups  cranberries  in 
4  cups  water  till  tender,  strain,  add  2  cups  sugar, 
stir  until  dissolved,  cooking  gently  5  minutes.  Put 
in  ice  box.  Cook  6  sliced  apples  with  plenty  water 
to  cover  until  tender.  Mash,  strain,  cool.  Com- 
bine cranberry  and  apple  juice,  juice  of  2  oranges, 
2  lemons.  Dilute  with  water  about  2  qts.  Sweeten 
to  taste. 

Blackberry  Lemonade — Use  either  large  black- 
berries, black  raspberries  or  blueberries.  Crush 
berries  and  use  2  cups  of  their  juice.  Mix  with 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  I  cup  sugar 
and  about  3  cups  water.  Stand  and  chill  1  hour. 
Strain,  serve. 

This  may  be  improved  by  adding  Yi  teasp. 
ground  ginger  to  berry  juice. 

Spiced  Appleade — Core  and  peel  6  apples,  slice 
and  boil  till  tender  in  water  to  cover,  press  out 
juice.  Wash  rhubarb,  do  not  peel,  cut  in  dice  to 
fill  2  cups.  Simmer  in  3  cups  water.  When 
tender,  mash,  strain.  Add  to  juice,  ]/i  teasp.  cin- 
namon, V4  teasp.  ginger,  1  cup  sugar.  Simmer  a 
few  minutes,  add  to  apple  juice.  Chill  for  J/J  hour. 
Add  water  when  ready  to  serve,  and  more  sugar 
if   desired.  • 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CLASS  30— DRINKS— STUDY  ON  BEVERAGES 


279 


IV. 


STUDY  ON  BEVERAGES 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin) 

A  beverage  is  any  drink  which  relieves  thirst  and  replaces  the  fluid  loss  of  the  body. 
"Water  is  the  beverage  provided   for  man  by  Nature  and  is  essential  to  life." 
Beverages  are  used :     I.  As  relievers  of  thirst.     II.    As  diuretics.     III.    As  diaphoretics. 
As  diluents.     V.    As  stimulants.     VI.    As  demulcants.     VII.   As  tonics.     VIII.   As  astrin- 


gents.    IX-    As  nutrients.     X.    As  an  aid  to  digestion. 


I.     BEVERAGES  TO  RELIEVE  THIRST 


1.  Water.  2.  Carbonated  and  effervescing  waters.  3.  Fruit  drinks:  a.  Orangeade; 
b.  Lemonade;  c.  Limeade;  d.  Raspberry  shrub;  e.  Pineapple  punch;  f.  Currantade;  g. 
Grape  juice. 


Syrup  for  Fruit  Beverages — %  c  sugar,  J4  c 
boiling  water.  Add  sugar  to  boiling  water,  stir 
until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  without  stirring  1 0 
minutes.      Cool   and  bottle. 

NOTE:  This  syrup  may  be  added  to  all  fruit 
juices. 

Lemonade  with  Sy rup —  1  Yl  tbsp.  syrup,  2  tbsp. 
lemon  juice,  f'4  c  cold  water.  Mix  syrup  and 
lemon  juice.  Add  cool  water.  Strain  lemonade 
before   serving. 

Lemonade — Yl  c  lemon  juice,  I  c  sugar,  4  c 
water.  Add  water  boiling  hot  to  lemon  juice  and 
sugar  and   strain.      When  cool  add   crushed  ice. 

Appollinaris  Lemonade — Make  same  as  lemon- 
ade,  substituting  appollinaris  in  place  of  water. 

Pineapple  Lemonade — 2  c  water,  I  c  sugar,  4 
c  ice  water,  1  can  grated  pineapple,  juice  3  lemons. 
Boil  sugar  and  water  1 0  minutes.  Add  pineapple 
and  lemon  juice.      Cool,   strain  and  add  ice  water. 

Currantade — 4  c  red  currants,  1  c  red  rasp- 
berries, 8  c  water,  2  c  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Make  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  10  min- 
utes. Crush  the  currants  and  raspberries.  Add 
lemon    juice.  .    Strain    fruit    juice    through    a    jelly 


bag.      Add    the    syrup    to    the    fruit    juice    and    let 
stand  two  hours  before  serving. 

Unfermented  Grape  Juice — 10  lbs.  grapes,  1  c 
water,  3  lbs.  sugar.  Put  grapes  and  water  in 
granite  stew  pan.  Heat  until  stones  and  pulp 
separate;  then  strain  through  jelly  bag,  add  sugar, 
heat  to  boiling  point  and  bottle.  This  will  make 
one    gallon.      Dilute   with   water   and    serve. 

Ginger  Punch — 1  qt.  cold  water,  I  c  sugar,  Yl 
lb.  canton  ginger,  Yl  c  orange  juice,  }4  c  lemon 
juice.  Chop  ginger,  add  water  and  sugar.  Boil 
1 5  minutes.  Add  fruit  juice,  cool,  strain  and  add 
crushed  ice. 

Fruit  Punch — 1  c  water,  2  c  sugar,  I  c  tea  in- 
fusion, I  qt.  appollinaris,  2  c  strawberry  syrup, 
juice  5  lemons,  juice  5  oranges,  1  can  grated  pine- 
apple, 1  c  maraschino  cherries.  Make  syrup  by 
boiling  water  and  sugar  10  minutes,  add  tea, 
strawberry  syrup,  lemon  juice,  orange  juice  and 
pineapple.  Let  stand  30  minutes,  strain  and  add 
ice  water  to  make'  one  and  one-half  gallons  of 
liquid.  Add  cherries  and  appollinaris.  Serve  in 
punch  bowl,  with  large  piece  of  ice.  The  quan- 
tity will  serve  fifty  people.  (Note  directions  for 
making   tea.) 


DIURETICS — TO    STIMULATE    ACTION    OF 
KIDNEYS 


Mineral   and   carbonated  waters   hold   first   rank. 

Mineral  waters  possess,  in  addition  to  the  prop- 
erties of  plain  water,  a  mildly  stimulating  effect 
upon  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  stomach,  due 
to  the  carbon  dioxide  gas  and  the  salts  they  con- 
tain. 

"These  waters  are  very  useful  when  taken  one- 
half  an  hour  before  meals  to  cleanse  the  mucous 
membrane  of  the   stomach  and  prepare  it  for  the 


reception  of  food.  They  also  serve  to  dilute  and 
wash  out  the  waste  materials  from  the  system 
through   the   kidneys." 

"The  alkaline  waters  all  contain  more  or  less 
carbon  dioxide  gas  and  their  more  important  in- 
gredients are  the  alkaline  carbonates." 

They  are  useful  in  neutralizing  the  uric  acid 
in   the   system. 

Generally  speaking,  the  European  waters  are 
richer   in   minerals   than   are   the   American. 


280       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Alkaline   table   waters: 

1.  Vichy 

2.  Johannis 


3.  Apollinaris 

4.  Seltzer 


The   following  acid   beverages   also    promote    ac- 
tion   of    the    kidneys: 

1.  Lemonade  3.    Cream   of  tartar  drinks 

2.  Orangeade  4.    Raspberry   vinegar 


Orangeade Juice  of    1    orange,    1    tsp.   sugar,    24 

c  water.      Boil  sugar  and  water  three  minutes.      Let 
cool,  add  orange  juice.      Strain  and  serve. 

Cream  of  Tartar  Drink — Dissolve  2  tsp.  of  cream 
tartar  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Flavor  with 
lemon  peel  and  sugar.      Serve  ice  cold. 

Cream  of  Tartar  Whey — Stir  two  level  teaspoons 
of  cream  of  tartar  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and 
strain.      Sugar   may  be  added   if  desired. 


III.  DIAPHORETICS — TO  PROMOTE 
PERSPIRATION 

I.    Lemonade  2.    Ginger    Tea 


3.    Te 


Hot     Lemonade Make     same     as     lemonade     in 

above    recipe,    and   serve   hot. 

Ginger  Tea — 1  tbsp.  molasses,  Yl  tsp.  ginger, 
Yi  c  boiling  water,  Yl  c  milk,  Yl  tsp.  butter.  Mix 
molasses  and  ginger.  Add  boiling  water  gradually 
Boil    I    minute,   add  milk  and  butter  and  serve. 

Tea — 1  tsp.  tea,  24  c  freshly  boiled  water.  Heat 
cup  and  put  in  tea.      Pour  on  hot  water,   cover  and 


let  stand  in  warm  place  3  minutes.  Strain  and 
serve  in  hot  cup,  with  cream  and  sugar  if  desired. 

Orange  or  Lemon  Cut  Sugar — Rub  the  surface 
of  blocks  of  loaf  or  cut  sugar  over  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  or  orange  which  has  been  washed  and  wiped 
until  dry.      Place  in  a  glass  jar  and  serve  with  tea. 

Rock  Sugar  for  Five  O'Clock  Teas — Mix  white 
and  red  rock  candy  together  and  serve  with  tea. 


IV.  DILUENTS— TO  DILUTE  WASTE  MATERIAL 

I.    Alkaline   waters 

2    Carbonated    effervescing    waters 


V.     STIMULANTS 


1.  Tea    (hot   or   cold) 

2.  Coffee     (hot    or    cold) 


3.  Cocoa     (slightly) 

4.  Chocolate    (slightly) 


Coffee Two   level  tbsp.    ground  coffee  for   each 

cup  of  water.  To  make  8  cups  of  coffee  mix  24 
c  ground  coffee  with  1  c  cold  water  and  let  stand 
about  Ya  hour;  add  7  c  water — cold  preferred — 
place  coffee  pot  over  fire,  bringing  slowly  to  boil- 
ing point,  then  simmer  2  minutes.  Add  Ya  c  cold 
water  and  set  on  back  of  range  to  settle.  Coffee 
may  be  boiled,  filtered  or  infused.  In  each  case 
2   level  tbsp.  to    1    c  water  is  used. 

Breakfast  Cocoa — 1  Yl  tbsp.  prepared  cocoa,  2 
tbsp.  sugar,  1  c  boiling  water,  1  c  milk,  few  grains 
salt,  few  grains  cinnamon.  Scald  milk,  mix  cocoa, 
sugar    and    salt,     dilute    with    one-half    cup    boiling 


water  to  make  smooth  paste,  add  remaining  water 
and  boil  I  minute.  Turn  into  scalded  milk  and 
beat  two  minutes,  using  Dover  egg  beater.  Va- 
nilla   or    cinnamon    improves    the    flavor. 

NOTE:  Yl  tsP-  lour  mixed  with  the  sugar  and 
one  beaten   egg  or  egg  yolks  may  be  added. 

Chocolate — Ya  s1'  baking  chocolate,  I  tbsp. 
sugar,  Ya  c  boiling  water,  24  c  scalded  milk,  few 
grains  salt.  Melt  chocolate  in  small  saucepan 
placed  over  hot  water,  then  add  sugar  and  salt. 
Add  water  gradually  while  stirring  constantly  and 
boil  I  minute.  Pour  into  hot  milk  and  beat.  Serve 
with   or  without  whipped   cream. 


VI.    DEMULCANTS  TO  ALLAY  IRRITATION  OF 
THE  ALIMENTARY  CANAL 

I.    Barley   water  2.    Rice  water  3.    Flaxseed   tea  4.    Currant  jelly 

Demulcants    when    taken    hot    are    soothing    for   coughs  and  promote  expectoration. 


CLASS  30— DRINKS— STUDY  ON  BEVERAGES 


281 


Barley  Water — 2  tbsp.  barley,  salt,  4  c  cold 
water.  Wash  barley.  Add  the  water  and  let  stand 
4  hours,  cook  in  same  water  until  it  is  reduced  to 
one-half,  if  it  is  to  be  used  for  infant  feeding.  For 
adults  reduce  to  1  cup.  Salt  and  cream  may  be 
added  or  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  as  the  case  may 
require. 

Rice  Water — 2  tbsp.  rice,  4  c  water,  salt.  Wash 
rice  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Add  the  water  to 
the  rice  and  let  soak  30  minutes.  Heat  gradually 
to    boiling    point    and    let    boil    until    rice    is    soft. 


Strain,  reheat  rice  water,  season  with  salt  and  flavor 
in  the  same  way  as  barley  water.  Rice  water  is  a 
useful  drink  for  cases  of  dysentery,  diarrhoea  and 
irritated   conditions   of  the  alimentary  canal. 

Flax  Seed  Tea — Yl  c  flaxseed,  1  qt.  boiling 
water.  Add  flaxseed  to  boiling  water,  boil  30  min- 
utes and  let  stand  a  little  while  near  the  fire  to 
thicken.      Strain  and  add  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

Currant  Jelly  Drink — Dissolve  red  or  black  cur- 
rant jelly  in  hot  or  cold  water.  Add  crushed  ice 
and  serve. 


VII.     TONICS— TO  AID  DIGESTION 

1 .  Koumiss 

2.  Alkaline   waters 


Koumiss —  I  qt.  milk,  1  Yl  tbsp.  sugar,  ]/+  yeast 
cake,  I  tbsp.  lukewarm  water.  Heat  milk  to  75 
degrees  F.,  add  sugar  and  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
luke  warm  water.  Fill  sterilized  bottles  to  within 
one  and  one-half  inches  of  top.      Cork  and  shake. 


Place  bottles  inverted  where  they  can  remain  at 
a  temperature  of  70  degrees  F.  for  ten  hours.  Put 
in  ice  box  or  cold  place  and  let  stand  48  hours, 
shaking  occasionally  to  prevent  cream  from  clog- 
ging  mouth    of   bottle. 


VIII.     ASTRINGENTS 


1.  Tea 

2.  Blackberry  juice 


3.  Coffee 

4.  Cocoa 


IX.  NUTRIENTS    TO   SUPPLY   FOOD   VALUES 

1 .  Cocoa 

2.  Chocolate 

3.  Fermented    milks    (example   Koumiss) 

4.  Milk 

5.  Eggnog 

6.  Albuminized    milk 


Lemon  Egg  Nog — 1  egg,  I  tbsp.  sugar,  I  tbsp. 
lemon  juice.  Beat  yolk  of  egg  until  thick  and 
lemon  colored.  Beat  white  of  egg  until  stiff.  Add 
sugar  gradually  to  the  beaten  yolk,  add  egg  white 
and  lemon  juice.     Serve  ice  cold. 


Albuminized  Milk — White  1  egg,  Yl  c  milk,  few 
grains  salt.  Put  egg  white,  milk  and  salt  in  pint 
jar.  Fasten  the  cover  securely  and  shake  jar  until 
the    egg  and    milk   are    thoroughly   blended. 


282        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


iilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllU 


CLASS  3 1  QQ^ 

Preserv/wc)  Foods 
In  The  Home 


Including 
|  =  PRESERVES,  JELLIES,  Etc.  = 

iTllllllllllllllllilllllllllMlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllililiiMiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii; 

CANNING,    DRYING,    PICKLING,    STORING 

Being  Lessons  VII  and  VIII  of 

"TEN  LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION" 

Published  by  U.  S.  Food  Administration 

OUTLINE 

I.   Necessity  for  preserving  foods. 
II.   Consideration  of  various  means  of  preservation. 

III.  Canning  of  fruits  and  vegetables. 

IV.  Drying  of  fruits  and  vegetables. 

V.   Preservation  of  fruits  and  vegetables  by  fermenting, 
salting  and  vinegar  pickling. 

I.  NECESSITY  FOR  PRESERVING  FOODS 

This  season  it  is  imperative,  as  never  before,  to  avoid  the  waste  of  all 
kinds  of  food.  On  account  of  the  increased  production  in  gardens,  people  must 
appreciate  the  importance  of  taking  care  of  the  surplus.  To  save  the  surplus  of 
perishables  will  provide  variety  for  the  winter  diet,  lessen  the  expenditure  for 
food,  and  help  to  simplify  the  growing  problem  of  transportation. 

II.  CONSIDERATION  OF  DIFFERENT  MEANS  OF  PRESERVATION 

The  present  situation  demands  careful  consideration  of  the  best  means  of  preserving 
different  local  foods.  The  selection  of  canning  and  drying,  or  other  means,  depends  upon 
its  suitability  to  the  product  being  preserved,  the  cost  and  difficulty  of  securing  containers, 
and  the  ease  in  handing  and  storing  the  finished  product. 

Canning  retains  the  original  form,  color,  flavor  and  texture  of  fruits  and  vegetables 
to  a  greater  degree  than  do  other  means  of  preserving.  In  addition,  canned  foods  require 
less  preparation  before  serving.  Considering  the  initial  cost  of  containers,  canning  is  more 
expensive  than  drying,  brining  or  curing.  The  present  shortage  of  tin  and  glass  makes  it 
more  important  than  formerly  to  consider  whether  food  shall  be  canned  or  not. 

Drying  furnishes  a  good  substitute  for  canning,  and  when  properly  done  gives 
attractive  and  wholesome  products.  Much  space  in  storing  and  expense  of  containers  are 
saved,  since  a  ton  of  many  different  vegetables  in  the  fresh  state  when  properly  dried  will 
average  only  about  I  75  pounds  in  weight. 

Brining  such  vegetables  as  cabbage,  cauliflower  and  cucumbers  is  an  economical 
way  of  saving  these  products.  Some  vegetables  can  be  saved  in  brine  better  than  by  can- 
ning them.  In  brining,  fewer  containers  are  required  for  storing  large  quantities  of  vege- 
tables, and  containers  such  as  crocks,  kegs  and  barrels  are  less  expensive  than  tin  and  glass. 

283 


284        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Storing  matured  crops  is  of  great  importance.  Economy  demands  that  such  vege- 
tables as  legumes  and  root  crops  be  allowed  to  mature,  since  in  this  state  they  are  more 
nutritious  and  less  time  and  money  are  spent  in  storing. 

Curing  of  meats  is  to  be  considered  only  when  such  products  are  raised  on  the  farm. 
It  is  well  to  encourage  the  reviving  of  old  methods  with  the  use  of  the  smokehouse,  preserva- 
tion in  salt,  etc.,  for  carrying  over  surplus  meat  on  the  farm  and  thus  securing  delicious 
products.  The  canning  of  meats  should  not  be  attempted  in  the  household  at  the  present 
development  of  canning  methods. 

III.  CANNING  OF  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 
General  Suggestions  on  Canning — It  is  important  during  the  present  season  to  con- 
sider what  vegetables  to  select  for  canning  and  the  most  economical  procedure  to  use.     The 
following  suggestions  should  have  general  value: 

1 .  Do  not  can  vegetables  which  can  be  matured  and  form  a  more  nutritious  food 
mature  than  when  canned  green.      Lima  beans  and  others  are  examples  of  this  class. 

2.  Root  crops  like  beets  and  carrots  should  be  stored  instead  of  canned. 

3.  Some  products  like  tomatoes  can  be  concentrated  in  purees  and  pastes  and  thus 
take  up  less  space. 

4.  Fruit  pastes,  which  are  concentrated  products  made  of  fruit  pulp,  can  also  be 
considered.  These  are  of  thicker  consistency  than  jams  and  fruit  butters  and  may  be  dried 
and  packed  in  layers,  thus  being  economical  and  convenient. 

5.  Fruit  juices  for  jelly  stock  and  other  purposes  can  be  extracted,  bottled  in  vari- 
ous containers,  sterilized  and  sealed.  Larger  quantities  can  thus  be  economically  saved  than 
when  finished  products  demanding  more  time,  fuel  -and  sugar  are  made  in  the  summei  sea- 
son. If  the  jelly  is  made  only  as  needed,  fewer  glasses  will  be  required  since  these  contain- 
ers will  be  used  again  and  again. 

6.  Valuable  fruit  syrups  which  can  be  substituted  for  cane  and  sorghum  syrups  can 
be  made  from  juice  of  apples,  scuppernong  grapes  and  other  fruits.  Where  fuel  is  plentiful  for 
the  boiling  processes  involved,  these  are  economical  because  they  do  not  require  the  use 
of  any  sugar.  These  syrups  can  also  be  used  instead  of  sugar  when  making  jams  and  marma- 
lades of  the  same  fruits. 

7.  The  city  housekeeper  who  cans  fruits  and  vegetables  must  consider  a  number 
of  points.  In  the  first  place,  she  must  watch  the  markets  to  find  when  local  products  are 
available  at  lowest  prices.  She  must  also  be  assured  that  the  vegetables  she  secures  for  can- 
ning are  fresh.  This  is  most  important.  Not  only  is  quality  injured  by  staleness  but  the 
difficulty  of  sterilization  is  greatly  increased.  It  would  be  worse  than  useless  to  attempt  to 
can  vegetables  which  are  being  disposed  of  cheaply  because  they  are  almost  ready  to  decay. 
When  fresh  vegetables  can  be  secured  at  reasonable  prices  the  city  housekeeper  who  wishes 
to  preserve  any  quantity  should  further  weigh  the  relative  cost  of  canning  and  drying,  con- 
sidering equipment,  fuel,  time,  containers  and  the  vegetables  to  be  preserved.  Fruits  present 
fewer  problems. 

8.  In  the  larger  towns  and  cities,  teachers  can  reach  and  instruct  larger  numbers  of 
housekeepers  by  working  through  the  many  well-established  existing  organizations.  Com- 
munity canning  kitchens  in  the  public  schools  may  be  started  where  conditions  warrant  it; 
but  impartial  advice  should  first  be  secured  from  the  extension  director  of  the  State  agricul- 
tural college,  as  such  undertakings  require  trained  leadership  for  success. 

IV.  DRYING  OF  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 
Methods  of  Drying — The  process  of  drying  vegetables  and  fruits  is  a  simple  one  and 
can  be  done  in  the  average  home  by  the  housewife.      A  uniformly  dried  product  is  desired 
and  can  best  be  secured  by  using  a  drier  or  evaporator  constructed  so  that  heated  currents  of 


CLASS  31— PRESERVING  FOODS  IN  THE  HOME  285 

air  pass  over  the  product  as  well  as  up  through  it,  gathering  the  moisture  and  passing  away. 
The  movement  of  the  current  of  air  induces  a  more  rapid  and  uniform  drying. 

Vegetables  and  fruits  can  be  dried  in  an  oven,  in  trays  or  racks  over  the  kitchen 
stove,  in  a  specially  constructed  drier,  and  where  there  is  electric  current,  by  the  newly  de- 
vised method  of  exposing  trays  of  the  material  to  be  dried  to  the  air  current  from  an  ordinary 
electric  fan.  There  are  small  driers  on  the  market  which  give  satisfactory  results.  The  small 
cookstove  driers  of  evaporators  are  small  ovenlike  structures,  usually  made  of  galvanized  sheet 
iron  or  of  wood  and  galavanized  iron.  They  are  of  such  a  size  that  they  can  be  placed  on  the 
top  of  an  ordinary  wood  or  coal  range  or  a  kerosene  stove.  These  driers  hold  a  series  of 
small  trays  on  which  fruits  or  vegetables  are  placed  after  being  prepared  for  drying.  Port- 
able outdoor  evaporators  are  especially  convenient  when  it  is  desired  to  dry  as  much  as  1  0 
bushels  of  fruit  or  vegetables  per  day.  They  are  usually  constructed  of  wood  except  the  parts 
in  direct  contact  with  the  heater.  The  home  made  dry  kiln  used  in  some  sections  of  the  country 
can  be  cheaply  and  easily  made  of  brick  and  stone.  Sun  drying  is  only  satisfactory  in  very 
dry  climates.  If  done,  every  precaution  should  be  taken  to  protect  the  vegetables  or  fruits 
from  dust  and  insects  when  exposed  to  the  sun. 

If  drying  is  done  in  a  cookstove  oven,  leave  the  oven  door  ajar.  Frequently  note 
the  temperature  of  oven.  Trays  for  use  in  the  oven  can  be  made  by  using  a  convenient- 
sized  piece  of  galvanized  wire  screen  and  bending  up  the  edge  one  or  two  inches. 

It  is  important  to  know  the  temperature  of  the  heat  in  the  drier,  and  this  cannot  be 
determined  very  accurately  except  by  using  a  thermometer.  An  ordinary  chemical  thermom- 
eter can  be  suspended  in  the  drier.  If  a  thermometer  is  not  used,  the  greatest  care  should 
be  given  to  the  regulation  of  the  heat.  The  temperature  in  the  drier  rises  rather  quickly,  and 
the  product  may  scorch  unless  close  attention  is  given.  The  temperature  for  drying  should  be 
rather  low  to  prevent  scorching  the  product.  For  most  vegetables,  after  surface  moisture  is 
removed,  begin  drying  at  a  temperature  of  110°  F.  Increase  temperature  gradually  from 
1  10°  to  145°  F.  and  complete  drying  in  two  to  three  hours.  The  time  required  for  drying 
vegetables  varies.      However,    it  can   easily  be  determined  by  a  little  experience. 

Dried  Vegetables — As  great  care  should  be  given  to  the  selection  and  preparation 
of  vegetables  for  drying  as  for  canning.  To  secure  a  fine  quality  of  dried  products,  much 
depends  upon  having  the  vegetables  absolutely  fresh,  young,  tender  and  perfectly  clean. 
Wash  all  vegetables  and  clean  well.  If  steel  knives  are  used  in  paring  and  cutting,  have  them 
clean  and  bright,  so  as  not  to  discolor  the  vegetables. 

After  vegetables  are  prepared  properly  they  are  blanched — that  is,  they  are  plunged 
into  boiling  ■water  for  a  short  time.  The  blanch  gives  a  more  thorough  cleaning,  removes 
the  strong  odor  and  flavor  from  certain  kinds  of  vegetables,  and  makes  them  more  flexible. 
This  allows  the  moisture  in  the  vegetables  to  evaporate  more  quickly  and  uniformly.  Use 
a  wire  basket  or  cheesecloth  bag  for  blanching.  After  blanching  the  required  number  of  min- 
utes, drain  well  and  remove  surface  moisture  by  placing  vegetables  between  two  towels  or 
by  exposing  to   the  sun  and   air  for  a  short  time. 

The  vegetable  thus  prepared  is  spread  in  a  thin  layer  on  the  trays  of  the  drier.  The 
material  should  be  stirred  or  turned  several  times  during  the  drying  in  order  to  secure  a 
uniform  product. 

Dried  Fruits — In  very  dry  climates  fruits  are  usually  dried  in  the  sun.  Most  fruits 
dried  in  the  sun  discolor  unless  especially  treated.  For  drying  fruits  in  small  quantities  for 
home  use  the  small  dryer  is  much  more  satisfactory.  On  very  hot,  dry  days  fruits  may  be 
dried  in  the  sun  until  surface  begins  to  wrinkle  and  then  finished  in  the  drier.  Only  fresh, 
ripe  fruits  should  be  used. 

Before  spreading  fruit  on  the  trays  of  the  drier,  line  the  tray  with  wrapping  paper 
or  cheesecloth.  There  is  a  possibility  of  the  acid  of  the  fruits  acting  upon  the  zinc.  After 
drying,  cool  quickly,  as  fruit  when  cooled  slowly  shrivels  and  looks  unattractive. 


286       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

The  ideal  moisture  content  of  dried  fruits  is  about  23  per  cent.  The  ability  to  judge 
accurately  as  to  when  the  fruit  has  reached  the  proper  condition  for  removal  from  drier  can  be 
gained  only  by  experience.  When  sufficiently  dried  it  should  be  so  dry  that  it  is  impossible 
to  press  water  out  of  the  freshly  cut  ends  of  the  pieces,  and  so  that  it  will  not  show  any  of 
the  natural  grain  of  the  fruit  on  being  broken,  yet  not  so  dry  that  it  will  snap  or  crackle.  It 
should  be  leathery  and  pliable. 

Storing  Dried  Product — When  vegetables  are  first  taken  from  the  drier,  if  completely 
dried,  they  are  very  brittle.  They  are  more  easily  handled  and  are  in  better  condition  for 
storing  if  allowed  to  stand  one  to  three  hours  to  absorb  enough  moisture  to  make  them 
more  pliable  before  putting  into  bags  or  storing  otherwise.  If  it  is  not  convenient  to  store 
products  immediately  and  they  are  allowed  to  stand  several  days,  just  before  storing  they 
should  be  heated  to  1  60°  F.  to  destroy  any  insect  eggs  that  might  be  on  them.  Care  should 
be  taken  not  to  heat  the  vegetables  higher  than  1  60°  F. 

Dried  vegetables  and  fruits  should  always  be  stored  in  moisture-proof  containers 
and  in  a  dry  place  free  from  dust  and  dirt.  The  best  container  is  a  tin  box,  bucket,  or  can 
fitted  with  a  perfectly  tight  cover.  Perhaps  the  most  convenient  and  cheapest  container  is 
the  small  paper  bag.  A  small  amount  should  be  put  in  each  bag,  just  enough  to  use  for 
one  or  two  meals.  This  will  prevent  the  opening  of  any  dried  product  that  cannot  be  con- 
sumed in  a  short  time.  The  upper  part  of  the  bag  is  twisted  to  form  a  neck.  The  neck  is 
bent  over  and  tied  tightly  with  a  string.  The  entire  bag  is  then  painted  with  a  coat  of  melted 
paraffin,  using  a  small  brush  or  a  frazzled  end  of  a  piece  of  rope.  This  makes  the  bag  prac- 
tically moisture  and  insect  proof.  To  protect  further  from  insect  ravages,  pack  the  bags, 
after  labeling,  in  a  tin  container,  with  a  tightly  fitting  Cover.  A  large  number  of  bags  may  be 
stored  in  an  ordinary  lard  can.  A  glass  jar  with  a  tight  seal  is  a  good  container  for  dried 
products.  Paraffin-coated  paper  containers  of  various  sizes  can  be  found  on  the  market. 
If  such  containers  are  used,   they  should  also  be  stored  as  just  suggested  for  the  paper  bags. 

All  dried  products  should  be  examined  occasionally.  Upon  the  first  appearance  of 
insects,  spread  thin  layers  in  the  sun  until  insects  disappear;  then  heat  at  a  temperature  of 
1  60°  F.  and  restore  carefully.       ., 

V.  PRESERVATION  OF  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  BY    FERMENTING, 
SALTING,  AND  VINEGAR  PICKLING 

General  Statement — The  preservation  of  food  products  by  fermentation  has  been 
practiced  for  centuries,  and  in  Europe  many  fermented  substances  are  well-known  articles 
of  food.  In  this  country,  however,  sauerkraut  and  dill  pickles  are  practically  the  only  foods 
frequently  preserved  in  this  manner.  Salted  vegetables  are  prepared  to  some  extent  in  this 
country,  although  the  method  of  salting  is  more  commonly  used  with  meats  and  fish.  Vin- 
egar pickling  is  well  known  in  all  parts  of  the  country.  A  number  of  vegetables  may  be 
preserved  by  fermenting  and  salting,  and  when  properly  prepared  and  stored  they  will 
keep  for  a  long  time.  These  methods  of  preserving  foods  cannot  replace  canning  or  dry- 
ing, but  have  certain  advantages,  chief  of  which  are  the  following:  Containers  may  be  used 
for  storing  the  vegetables,  such  as  wooden  kegs,  stone  crocks  or  large  glass  bottles,  which 
are  not  adapted  to  canning;  no  sugar  or  fuel  is  required  in  the  fermenting  or  pickling  of 
vegetables,  which  is  an  advantage  so  far  as  cost  is  concerned;  and  owing  to  the  shortage 
of  tin  and  glass  containers  these  methods  of  preservation  are  especially  well  worth  consid- 
ering at  this  time. 

FERMENTING  OF  FRUITS  OR  VEGETABLES— The  method  of  preserving  fruits 
and  vegetables  by  fermentation  is  perhaps  best  illustrated  by  the  method  of  making  sauer- 
kraut in  the  home,  which  is  given  in  the  following  paragraphs: 


CLASS  31— PRESERVING  FOODS  IN  THE  HOME  287 

I.  In  making  sauerkraut  for  home  purposes  the  outer  green  leaves  of  the  cabbage 
should  be  removed,  just  as  in  preparing  cabbage  for  boiling.  In  addition,  all  decayed  or 
bruised  leaves  should  be  discarded  and  the  core  removed.  Cabbage  may  be  shredded  by 
one  of  the  hand-shredding  machines  sold  upon  the  market  for  such  purposes,  or  if  such  an 
instrument  is  not  available  the  heads  may  be  cut  into  thin  slices  with  a  large  knife.  The 
core  is  omitted  when  machine  for  shredding  is  not  available,  because  it  is  difficult  to  shred 
it  fine  enough  with  a  knife.  The  shredded  cabbage  should  be  packed  immediately  into  a 
perfectly  clean,  water-tight  receptacle,  such  as  a  cider  or  wine  barrel,  keg  or  tub.  Four  or 
five  gallon  earthenware  crocks  are  recommended  for  family  use.  After  opening  this  quan- 
tity of  sauerkraut  it  can  be  used  up  before  spoilage  sets  in. 

As  the  cabbage  is  packed  into  the  barrel  or  crock,  salt  in  the  proportion  of  one 
pound  of  salt  to  40  pounds  of  cabbage  should  be  added  and  distributed  evenly  throughout 
the  cabbage.  Experiments  have  shown  that  approximately  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  salt 
to  each  hundred  pounds  of  shredded  cabbage  gives  the  best  flavor  to  the  resulting  kraut. 
When  the  barrel  or  crock  is  nearly  full  the  cabbage  should  be  pressed  down  as  firmly  as 
possible  and  covered  with  a  clean  board  cover.  It  is  advisable  but  not  essential  that  a  clean 
cloth  be  placed  over  the  cabbage  before  the  cover  is  put  into  place.  The  salt  soon  extracts 
a  considerable  amount  of  the  cabbage  juice  from  the  cabbage  and  a  sufficient  weight  of 
clean  brick  or  stone  should  be  added  to  cause  the  brine  to  rise  above  the  wooden  cover. 
Care  should  be  taken  not  to  use  lime  or  sandstone  for  weights,  for  the  acid  produced  by 
fermentation  attacks  the  lime  and  destroys  the  keeping  quality  of  the  brine.  Tubs  and 
covers  made  of  yellow  or  pitch  pine  should  not  be  employed  because  such  woods  cause  a 
disagreeable  flavor. 

The  barrel  or  crock  is  now  set  aside  and  fermentation  is  allowed  to  proceed  undis- 
turbed. If  the  weather  is  cold  or  the  product  is  stored  in  a  cool  cellar  it  may  take  three  to 
five  weeks  for  the  fermentation  to  be  completed.  If  placed  in  a  'warm  room  fermentation 
may  be  completed  in  ten  days  to  two  weeks.  As  soon  as  fermentation  starts  a  foam  ap- 
pears on  the  surface  of  the  brine.  This  is  soon  followed  by  a  film  which  develops  into  a 
heavy  scum  if  allowed  to  remain.  The  scum  should  be  removed  by  skimming  as  often  as 
it  forms,  every  day  if  necessary.  This  scum  is  really  a  mold  growth  which  feeds  upon  the 
acid  in  the  brine  and  if  allowed  to  grow  undisturbed  it  soon  destroys  both  brine  and 
kraut.  As  soon  as  gas  bubbles  cease  arising,  the  scum  should  be  again  removed,  if  any  has 
formed,  and  a  layer  of  hot  melted  paraffin  about  one-fourth  to  one-half  inch  thick  should 
be  poured  upon  the  brine.  If  the  sauerkraut  is  made  during  the  fall  and  stored  in  a  cool 
place  there  is  no  absolute  necessity  for  the  layer  of  paraffin,  for  the  low  temperature  will 
prevent  decomposition.  No  doubt  the  popular  idea  that  sauerkraut  made  from  early  cab- 
bage will  not  keep  is  based  upon  the  fact  that  the  fermentation  of  sauerkraut  made  from 
such  cabbage  occurs  in  warm  weather,  and  the  rapid  growth  of  scum  soon  destroys  both 
brine  and  kraut  if  the  surface  is  not  properly  protected. 

II.  Covering  the  Material — The  surface  of  the  fermenting  material  should  be  pro- 
tected against  spoilage.  This  should  be  done  by  placing  between  the  vegetables  and  the 
board  cover  mentioned  above  several  thicknesses  of  clean  cheesecloth,  or  even  a  layer 
about  one  inch  thick  of  clean  beet  tops,  rhubarb  or  grape  leaves.  In  the  case  of  sauerkraut 
clean  cabbage  leaves  can  be  used. 

III.  Protecting  the  Surface  of  Fermenting  Material — If  uncooked  vegetables  or 
fruits  are  fermented,  there  will  also  be  more  or  less  bubbling  and  foaming  of  the  brine  dur- 
ing the  first  stages  of  fermentation.  After  this  ceases  a  thin  film  will  appear,  which  will 
spread  rapidly  over  the  whole  surface  and  develop  quickly  into  a  heavy  folded  membrane 
composed  of  mold  growth  as  explained.      It  is  very  important  that  this  scum  be  prevented 


288        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

from  forming,  if  the  product  is  to  be  kept  for  a  considerable  time.  One  important  char- 
acteristic of  this  scum  is  that  it  will  not  grow  in  the  absence  of  air.  The  free  oxygen  of  the 
air  is  absolutely  necessary  for  its  growth.  Consequently  the  exclusion  of  air  from  the  surface 
of  the  brine  will  entirely  prevent  the  scum  from  forming.  There  are  three  feasible  methods 
of  excluding  the  air.  The  first  method  is  to  use  an  oil,  like  cottonseed  oil,  which  floats  on 
the  surface  and  effectually  prevents  air  from  reaching  the  brine.  Brine  with  a  layer  of 
liquid  petroleum  or  cottonseed  oil  one-half  inch  thick  on  the  surface  will  keep  indefinitely. 
The  only  objection  to  liquid  oils  is  the  difficulty  of  getting  at  the  preserved  vegetables  with- 
out getting  them  covered  with  oil,  which  it  is  difficult  to  remove. 

The  second  method  is  to  cover  the  surface  with  very  hot  melted  paraffin.  If  the 
paraffin  is  sufficiently  hot  to  make  the  brine  boil  when  poured  upon  it,  the  paraffin  will 
form  a  smooth  even  layer  before  hardening.  After  solidifying  it  will  effect  a  perfectly  air- 
tight seal.  Paraffin  has,  in  comparison  with  liquid  oil,  the  advantage  of  ease  in  handling 
and  of  not  coming  in  contact  with  the  fermented  vegetables  when  they  are  removed.  Further, 
paraffin  can  be  used  over  and  over  and  thus  the  expense  is  small  in  the  long  run.  If  it  be- 
comes dirty,  it  can  be  heated  very  hot  and  strained  through  cheesecloth  or  a  thin  layer  of 
cotton.  The  one  disadvantage  with  paraffin  is  that  the  development  of  gas  below  the  layer 
will  break  the  seal.  If  the  paraffin  breaks  it  should  be  removed,  remelted  and  replaced. 
Before  adding  paraffin  the  containers  should  be  set  where  they  will  not  be  disturbed  until 
ready  for  use.  Any  attempt  to  move  them  may  break  the  seal  and  necessitate  remelting 
and  resealing. 

If  cottonseed  oil  or  paraffin  is  used  to  cover  the  brine  it  is  advisable  so  to  adjust 
the  amount  of  brine  used  and  weights  on  the  cover  that  the  brine  comes  up  to  but  does  not 
go  over  the  cover.  In  this  case  only  the  brine  exposed  between  the  cover  and  sides  needs  to 
be  oiled  or  paraffined,   thus  saving  covering  material. 

The  third  method  is  to  pack  the  barrels  as  full  as  possible  and  replace  the  head. 
In  using  this  method  of  fermentation  with  beets,  cucumbers,  chayotes,  or  string  beans,  fill 
the  barrels  as  full  as  possible,  add  cover  and  weights.  Let  stand  for  24  hours  to  allow  the 
initial  gas  to  escape  and  head  up  tight.  Bore  a  one-inch  hole  in  the  head  and  fill  the  barrel 
full  with  brine.  There  should  be  no  air  space  in  the  barrel.  Allow  the  barrel  to  stand  until 
bubbling  has  stopped.  Add  more  brine  if  necessary  and  plug  the  vent  tight.  If  the  barrel 
does  not  leak,  fermented  products  put  up  in  this  manner  will  keep  indefinitely. 

IV.  String  Beans  may  be  preserved  by  a  slight  modification  of  the  method  used 
for  sauerkraut:  Remove  the  tip  ends  and  strings  from  the  beans,  wash,  drain  and  weigh 
them.  For  each  hundred  pounds  of  beans  weigh  out  three  pounds  of  fine  salt.  For  smaller 
amounts  use  the  same  proportion  of  salt  (three  per  cent,  by  weight).  Pack  the  beans  in 
the  keg  or  crock  in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  the  fine  salt,  using  just  enough  so  that 
the  amount  weighed  out  will  suffice  to  pack  the  whole  quantity  of  string  beans.  Cover  and 
ferment  as  described  for  sauerkraut. 

V.  Cucumbers,  Chayotes  and  Beets — These  vegetables  are  best  preserved  by  fer- 
menting them  in  a  weak  salt  solution,  as  the  salt  will  not  extract  sufficient  water  from  them 
to  form  a  brine.  Wash  the  vegetables  and  pack  them  whole  in  a  keg  or  other  container. 
Pour  over  them  a  weak  brine,  cover  with  a  board,  and  weight,  and  set  aside  to  ferment 
as  in  the  case  of  sauerkraut.  The  brine  is  prepared  as  follows:  dissolve  one  pound  salt  in 
1  0  quarts  water,  stir  until  the  salt  is  dissolved  and  then  add  1  Yl  pints  vinegar. 

SALTING   FRUITS   AND   VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  like  dandelions,  spinach,  kale,  beet  greens  and  string  beans  may  be  pre- 
served by  packing  with  a  sufficiently  large  quantity  of  salt  to  prevent  any  fermentation  or 
development  of  bacteria.     Wash,  drain  and  weigh  the  vegetables     Weigh  out  also  a  quantity 


CLASS  3 1— PRESERVING  FOODS  IN  THE  HOME  289 

of  fine  salt  equal  to  one-fourth  the  weight  of  the  vegetables.  Pack  the  vegetables  in  a 
clean  keg,  stone  crock  or  other  container  in  layers  about  one  inch  thick  and  sprinkle  each 
layer  heavily  with  salt.  Cover  the  material  with  a  clean  cloth  and  a  round  board  as  de- 
scribed for  sauerkraut,  add  a  weight  and  set  aside.  When  ready  for  cooking  the  salted 
vegetables  should  be  soaked  several  hours  in  clean  water  and  cooked  in  the  same  way  as 
one  would  the  fresh  vegetables. 

PRESERVING  FRUITS  OR  VEGETABLES  IN  VINEGAR 

Pickled  vegetables  or  those  preserved  in  vinegar  are  of  three  general  types:  those 
preserved  whole  in  vinegar  alone  (sour  pickles),  those  in  which  spices  or  sugar  and  spices 
are  added  to  the  vinegar  (sweet  or  spiced  pickles),  and  the  chopped  vegetables  such  as 
chow-chow,  ketchups,  etc.,  which  contain  vinegar.  The  acetic  acid  in  the  vinegar  preserves 
these  materials  by  preventing  the  growth  of  yeasts,  molds  or  bacteria,  which  would  cause 
the  fruit  to  spoil. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


290        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


HOME  CANNING  BY  THE  ONE-PERIOD 
COLD-PACK  METHOD 

By  O.  H.  Benson,  Agriculturist,  Boys'  and  Girls'  Extension  Work, 
Northern  and  Western  States 
(Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  839,  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture,   Extracts) 

Without  previous  experience,  and  with  no  other  equipment  than  that  to 
be  found  in  almost  every  home,  anyone,  adult  or  child,  should  be  able  to  can  food 
satisfactorily  by  the  method  described  in  this  Bulletin. 

By  this  method  various  vegetables,  soups,  meats,  fish  and  practically  any 
other  foods  or  combination  of  foods  can  be  canned,  as  well  as  fruits  and  tomatoes, 
the  products  most  commonly  canned. 

In  all  home  canning  it  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  when  hermetically  sealed  con- 
tainers are  difficult  to  obtain,  food  products  which  can  not  be  preserved  easily  in  other 
ways  should  be  given  preference.  This  would  make  inadvisable  in  most  cases  at  times 
like  the  present,  the  canning  of  such  products  as  hominy,  dried  beans,  potatoes  and  similar 
foods. 

Most  home-makers  are  familiar  with  some  form  of  canning.  Much  of  the  canning 
practiced  in  homes,  however,  has  been  restricted  to  the  putting  up  of  fruits.  The  canning 
of  vegetables  and  of  meats  has  been  considered  until  recently  by  all  but  a  relatively  few 
persons  to  be  too  complicated  to  be  done  satisfactorily  in  the  home.  But  it  is  a  simple 
matter  to  can  practically  any  food  product  in  the  home  with  ordinary  kitchen  equipment 
and  with  the  expenditure  of  comparatively  little  labor.  This  is  described  in  the  following 
paragraphs;  the  system  was  developed  primarily  for  use  in  the  Northern  and  Western 
States  rather  than  in  the  South.  By  its  use  the  time  required  for  the  treatment  of  food  to 
prepare  it  for  keeping  is  reduced  to  a  minimum. 

NOTE: The    exact  wording   of  the    government    bulletin    has   not    been    closely    followed    here,    but 

has  been  varied,  to  give  only  the  simple  directions  for  home  canning  in  small  quantities  under  the  simplest 
method  and  conditions.  We  recommend  that  the  housewife  write  the  Department  of  Agriculture  for  a 
copy  of  the  Bulletin,  if  only  to  have  it  handy  for  reference  in  the  event  she  should  want  to  go  a  little 
beyond  these  directions  in  some  particular.  By  all  means  have  the  Bulletin  if  any  large  amount  of  can- 
ning is  to  be  attempted;  it  shows  methods,  better  even  though  slightly  more  elaborate,  and  better  uten- 
sils  procurable   at   little    expense,    for   use   in   the    canning    of    larger    quantities. EDITORS. 

Preparations  for  Canning — Start  with  clean  hands,  clean  utensils,  clean,  sound,  fresh 
products,  and  pure,  clean,  soft  water.  No  withered  or  unsound  vegetables  or  fruits  should 
be  canned.  If  possible,  those  picked  the  day  of  canning  should  be  used.  Peas  and  corn,  in 
fact,  which  lose  their  flavor  rapidly,  should  be  canned  within  five  hours  if  a  choice  product 
is  desired. 

Wash  the  containers  before  you  start;  if  glass  or  crockery  jars,  place  in  cold  water 
over  a  fire  to  heat;  have  them  hot  and  ready  for  use  when  the  products  have  been  prepared 
for  packing. 

Wash  carefully  all  grit  and  dirt  from  the  materials  to  be  used.  Grade  the  products 
for  ripeness.  Large  fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  pared  if  necessary,  and  small  fruits,  ber- 
ries and  greens  picked  over  carefully. 

Steps  in  Canning — After  the  preparatory  measures,  the  canning  method  consists  of 
five  steps — scalding  or  blanching,  cold-dipping,  packing,  processing,  and  sealing.  In  can- 
ning berries  and  all  soft  fruits  the  blanching  is  dispensed  with. 

291 


292        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

The  products  to  be  canned  are  blanched  or  scalded  usually  by  being  placed  in  a 
cheesecloth  bag  or  dipping  basket  into  boiling  water  and  allowed  to  remain  there  from  1  to 
1  5  minutes,  depending  on  the  kind  of  product.  In  the  case  of  greens  and  green  vegetables, 
however,  the  scalding  is  accomplished  most  satisfactorily  in  steam,  as  volatile  oils  and 
other  substances  remain  in  the  food  under  this  treatment.  Such  products  may  be  put  into  a 
colander,  set  over  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  and  covered  as  tightly  as  possible.  Better  results 
may  be  obtained  by  the  use  of  a  steam  cooker. 

As  soon  as  removed  from  the  boiling  water  or  steam  the  product  should  be  dipped 
into  cold,  clean  water  and  immediately  removed  and  drained  for  a  few  moments.  The 
temperature  of  the  water  used  for  cold  dipping  should  be  as  low  as  possible. 

The  product  should  be  packed  carefully  into  hot  jars  as  soon  as  removed.  In  the 
case  of  fruits,  boiling  hot  syrup  or  hot  water  is  then  added.  In  the  case  of  vegetables,  hot 
water  usually  is  used  and  salt  is  added  for  seasoning.  The  scalded  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars 
are  put  into  place,  the  tops  of  cans  sealed,  and  the  containers  are  placed  in  a  hot-water  bath, 
pressure  cooker,   or  other  similar  device  for  processing. 

Processing  is  the  final  application  of  heat  to  sterilize  the  product  and  is  continued 
for  a  period  determined  by  the  character  of  the  product  and  the  kind  of  apparatus  used 
(see  time  schedule).  The  containers  should  be  placed  in  the  processing  vessel  as  soon  as 
they  are  filled. 

Immediately  after  the  termination  of  the  processing  period,  while  the  products  are 
still  hot,  glass  and  similar  containers  must  be  sealed. 

Jars  should  then  be  placed  in  a  tray  upside  down  to  cool  and  closely  examined  for 
leaks.      If  leakage  is  found  the  covers  should  be  tightened  until  they  are  completely  closed. 

Tin  cans  may  be  cooled  by  plunging  them  "in  cold  water.  When  the  packed  con- 
tainers are  thus  cooled,  they  should  be  stored  in  a  cool,  dry  place  not  exposed  to  freezing 
temperature.  Most  products  packed  in  glass  jars  will  bleach  or  darken  if  exposed  to  light; 
it  is  well,  therefore,  to  wrap  jars  in  paper.  From  time  to  time,  especially  in  very  hot 
weather,  both  glass  jars  and  tin  cans  should  be  examined  to  make  certain  that  there  are 
no  leaks,  swellings,  or  other  signs  of  fermentation. 

Equipment  Required — Whatever  type  of  apparatus  is  used  for  processing  or  steriliz- 
ing, a  number  of  utensils  are  needed  for  properly  handling  the  products  during  the  preced- 
ing steps.  These  include  five  or  six  acid-proof  pans  with  covers  for  use  in  handling  and 
blanching  acid  fruits,  two  tablespoons,  one  set  of  measuring  spoons,  one  wire  basket  or  sev- 
eral yards  of  cheesecloth  for  use  in  blanching,  six  wiping  cloths,  two  hand  towels,  one  dup- 
lex fork  for  lifting  hot  jars,  several  sharp  paring  knives,  a  generous  supply  of  clean  hot  and 
cold  water,  a  garbage  pail  for  scraps  and  a  good  stove  or  other  heating  device. 

For  processing,  home  canners  may  choose  from  among  several  types  of  apparatus, 
according  to  their  needs  and  means  and  the  extent  of  their  canning  intentions.  There  are 
five  general  types  of  outfits  in  common  use.  These  are  described  at  length  in  the  Bulletin 
from  which  these  paragraphs  are  taken,  and  those  who  plan  any  extended  amount  or  quan- 
tity of  canning  should  obtain  a  copy  and  study  these  several  methods  carefully.  For  home- 
canning  in  small  amounts  the  following  homemade  outfits  are  fully  sufficient. 

Home-made  outfits  are  constructed  of  such  utensils  as  wash-boilers,  tin  pails,  milk 
cans,  metal  washtubs  and  lard  pails  Such  canners  should  have  well-fitting  covers  and  false 
bottoms  or  lifting  platforms  of  metal  or  wood ;  the  latter  are  to  support  jars  or  cans  to  pre- 
vent direct  contact  with  heat  and  also  permit  a  free  circulation  of  water  and  steam  around 
and  under  the  containers. 

Difficulties  in  the  Operation  of  hot-water  bath  canning  outfits  may  be  avoided  if  the 
following  rules  are  observed.  Support  the  jars  on  a  perforated  platform  sufficiently  to 
permit  the  circulation  of  water  under  and  around  the  jars.     Have  the  water  cover  the  tops 


CLASS  31— HOME  CANNING,  ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  METHOD  293 

of  the  jars  by  at  least  one  inch.      Count  time  as  soon  as  the  water  begins  to  boil  vigorously. 
Remove  the  jars  from  the  water  and  tighten  the  covers  as  soon  as  the  time  is  up. 

Containers — The  method  here  described  does  not  require  a  particular  class  of  con- 
tainer. Glass  jars,  crockery  jars  (with  air-tight  tops)  or  tin  cans  of  practically  any  type  may 
be  used  if  they  are  carefully  cleaned  and  properly  handled  and  sealed.  When  products  are 
to  be  used  in  the  home,  glass  jars  are  perhaps  preferable  to  tin  cans.  Jars  may  be  sealed 
without  the  use  of  special  apparatus  and  may  be  used  over  and  over  again  if  taken  care  of 
and  new  rubbers  are  used  each  time.  Tins,  on  the  other  hand,  must  be  thrown  away  each 
time.  Tin  cans,  however,  have  certain  advantages.  They  exclude  light  and  so  prevent 
bleaching;  they  may  be  packed,  handled  and  transported  more  safely  than  glass  jars. 

Altitude  Changes — The  directions  given  here  for  canning  are  based  upon  an  altitude 
from  sea  level  to  1  000  feet  and  upon  the  use  of  the  quart  can  or  container.  If  using  smaller 
cans  or  jars,  reduce  the  time  a  trifle;  if  using  larger,  increase  the  time.  For  altitudes  above 
1 000  feet  the  time  of  sterilization  should  be  increased  at  the  rate  of  1  0  per  cent,  for  each 
500  feet. 

Seasoning — In  seasoning  foods  it  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  most  vegetables  as 
well  as  meats  are  injured  in  flavor  and  quality  by  an  excessive  use  of  salt  for  seasoning  in 
the  canning  process.  A  little  salt  is  very  palatable  and  its  use  should  be  encouraged,  but  it 
is  better  to  add  no  salt  in  canning  than  to  use  too  much.  Salt  can  be  added  to  suit  the  taste 
when  canned  goods  are  served. 

Syrups — Syrups  are  employed  usually  in  canning  fruits.  A  formula  much  used  in 
some  sections  for  syrup  is  3  quarts  of  sugar  to  2  quarts  of  water,  boiled  to  a  thin,  medium- 
thin,  medium-thick,  or  thick  syrup.  The  formula  sometimes  called  the  Eastern  formula  is  3 
quarts  of  water  to  2  quarts  of  sugar,  boiled  to  a  thin,  medium-thin,  medium-thick,  or  thick 
syrup.  The  first  formula  may  be  used  for  canning  all  kinds  of  fruits  delicate  in  flavor  and 
texture  and  when  sugar  is  low  or  reasonable  in  price.  When  sugar  is  high  in  price  and  the 
character  of  the  fruit  is  such  that  less  sugar  is  required,  the  Eastern  formula  may  be  used. 
The  following  may  be  remembered : 

Thin  syrup  is  sugar  and  water  boiled  sufficiently  to  dissolve  all  of  the  sugar,  but  is 
not  sticky.  Such  syrup  has  a  density  of  from  12  to  20  per  cent.  Medium- thin  syrup  is  that 
which  has  begun  to  thicken  and  becomes  sticky  when  cooled  on  the  finger  tip  or  spoon ;  dens- 
ity 20  to  40  per  cent.  Medium-thick  syrup  is  that  which  has  thickened  enough  to  roll  or 
pile  up  over  the  edge  of  the  spoon  when  it  is  poured  out;  density  40  to  50  per  cent.  Thick 
syrup  is  that  which  has  become  so  thick  that  it  is  difficult  to  pour  out  of  a  spoon  or  con- 
tainer, but  has  not  sugared;  density  50  to  64  per  cent. 

Thin  syrups  are  used  for  all  sweet  fruits  such  as  cherries,  peaches,  apples,  etc.,  that 
are  not  too  delicate  in  texture  and  color.  Medium-thin  syrups  are  used  in  the  canning  of 
the  medium-sweet  fruits,  such  as  blackberries,  currents,  dewberries,  huckleberries,  raspber- 
ries, etc.  Medium-thick  syrups  are  used  in  the  canning  of  all  sour  fruits,  such  as  goose- 
berries, appricots,  sour  apples,  etc.,  and  delicately  colored  fruits  such  as  strawberries  and 
red  raspberries.  Thick  syrup  is  used  in  preserving  and  making  all  kinds  of  sun-cooked 
preserves. 

Canning  Fruit  Without  Sugar — All  fruits  can  be  canned  for  future  use  for  jelly  mak- 
ing, pie  filling,  salad  purposes,  etc.,  without  the  use  of  sugar  by  simply  adding  hot  water 
instead  of  the  hot  syrups.  It  has  been  found  practicable  also  with  certain  vegetables  to  sub- 
stitute sugar  for  salt  in  the  canning  process,  and  then  add  other  seasonings  to  taste  when 
serving. 


294       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

In  canning  fruit  without  sugar,  can  it  the  day  it  is  picked ;  cull,  stem,  seed  and  clean 
fruit  by  placing  in  strainer  and  pouring  cold  water  over  it.  Pack  the  product  carefully  in 
hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  until  full.  Use  tablespoon,  wooden  ladle  or  table  knife  for  packing 
purposes.  Pour  boiling  hot  water  over  the  product  in  the  hot  jar.  Place  rubbers  and  caps 
in  position,  not  tight.  If  using  tin  cans,  seal  completely.  Place  product  in  the  sterilizer, 
vat  or  canner,  and  sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given,  which  for  hot-water  bath  is  30  min- 
utes. After  sterilizing  remove  the  filled  containers.  Seal  jars;  invert  to  cool  and  test  for 
leaks.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching  and  store  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  tin  cans  are 
used  it  will  be  found  advantageous  to  plunge  them  into  cold  water  immediately  after  steriliz- 
ing, to  cool  them  quickly. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CANNING  AND  PRESERVING  RECIPES 


As  Prepared  by  O.  H.  Benson  and  Published  by  the 
U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 
Endorsed  by  the  U.  S.  Food  Administration 

NOTE:  Sterilization  time  given  is  for  water-bath  method.  For  other  meth- 
ods, as  a  rule  more  suited  for  canning  or  preserving  larger  quantities  than  for  the 
usual  small  amounts  put  up  in  the  home,  it  is  recommended  that  the  housekeeper 
send  to  the  Department  of  Agriculture  for  Farmers'  Bulletin  839,  Home-Canning 
by  the  One-Period  Cold-Pack  Method,  and  study  this  Bulletin  thoroughly  in  its 
entirety. 

CANNING  DIRECTIONS 


VEGETABLES 

Tomatoes Scald      1  J/2      minutes     or     until     skin 

loosens.  Cold  dip.  Remove  stems  and  cores. 
Pack  directly  into  cans  or  hot  jars.  Press  down 
with  tablespoon  (add  no  water).  Add  level  tea- 
spoon salt  per  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars 
into  position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely. 
Sterilize   (water-bath)    22  minutes. 

Sweet  Peppers Use  sweet  green  peppers.    Place 

the  peppers  in  the  oven  and  bake  them  until  the 
skins  separate  from  the  meat.  Remove  the  skins. 
Pack  them  solid  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans.  Add 
water.  Add  1  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  per  quart. 
Put  the  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not 
tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  (water- 
bath)  90  minutes.  Remove  the  jars;  tighten  the 
covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool,  and  test  the  joints. 
Wrap   the  jars  to  prevent  bleaching. 

Pumpkins,    Squash,    Hominy    and    Sauerkraut — 

Prepare  and  cut  into  convenient  sections.  Blanch 
3  minutes.  Cold  dip;  pack  closely  in  hot  jars  or 
cans.  Fill  with  boiling  water.  Add  level  teaspoon- 
ful salt  per  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars 
into  position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely. 
Sterilize    (water-bath)    120   minutes. 

Sweet  Corn — Remove  husk  and  silk.  Blanch 
5  minutes  on  cob.  Cold-dip ;  cut  corn  from  cob 
and  pack  directly  in  hot  jars  or  cans  ( J4  inch  of 
top).  Fill  with  boiling  water.  Add  level  teaspoon- 
ful salt  per  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars 
into  position,  not  tight.  Seal  cans  completely. 
Sterilize   (water-bath)    1 80  minutes. 

Corn  seems  to  give  home  canners  more  trouble 
than  do  most  products;  but  with  care  and  study 
corn  may  be  canned  as  easily  as  any  other  product 
grown  in  the  garden.  A  little  experience  in  select- 
ing the  ear  and  the  ability  to  recognize  corn  that 
is  just  between  the  milk  and  the  dough  stage  are 
important.  Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  with  a 
sharp,  thin-bladed  knife,  and  pack  it  at  once  into 
sterilized  jars.  Best  results  can  be  obtained  when 
one    person    cuts    the    corn    from    the    cob    and    one 


person  fills  the  containers.  If  it  is  necessary  for 
one  person  to  work  alone,  he  should  cut  off  suffici- 
ent corn  to  fill  one  jar,  pour  on  boiling  water,  add 
salt,  place  the  rubber  and  the  cap  in  position,  and 
put  the  jar  into  the  canner  or  hot  water  at  once. 
Corn  expands  a  little  in  processing,  and  for  this 
reason  jars  should  not  be  filled  quite  full.  Corn 
that  has  reached  the  dough  stage  before  being 
packed  will  have  a  cheesy  appearance  after  can- 
ning. Corn  should  never  be  allowed  to  remain  in 
the  cold-dip  water,  and  large  quantities  should  not 
be  dipped  at  one  time  unless  sufficient  help  is  avail- 
able to  handle  the  product  quickly.  Water-logged 
or  soaked  corn  indicates  slow  and  inefficient  pack- 
ing. 

When  canning  sweet  corn  on  the  cob,  follow 
same  directions  but  pack  whole  ears  in  jars  instead 
of  the  cut-off  corn. 

Home  Canning  Field  Corn — This  product  is 
usually  known  as  corn  club  breakfast  food,  or  4-H 
brand  food  product.  The  corn  should  be  selected 
between  the  milk  and  the  dough  stage.  Wide- 
mouthed  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  should  be  used. 
Avoid  packing  container  too  full,  as  the  product 
swells  during  the  sterilization  period.  The  corn 
should  be  canned  the  same  day  it  is  picked  from 
the  field,  if  possible.  The  yellow  field-corn  makes 
a  yellow,  butter-like  food  product  when  ground  and 
canned.  Avoid  mixing  the  white  and  the  yellow  or 
Bloody  Butcher  corn  in  the  same  batch  of  food 
products.  Secure  a  good  grade  of  food  chopper 
for  grating  the  corn.  Small  1 0  cent  hand  graters 
can  be  used,  but  work  with  these  is  too  slow  and 
tedious. 

Blanch  the  corn  ears  in  boiling  hot  water  or  live 
steam  for  1  0  minutes.  Remove  and  dip  quickly  in 
cold  water.  Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  with  a 
sharp,  thin-bladed  knife.  Feed  the  corn  to  the 
food  chopper  and  grind  to  a  pulp.  Cook  this 
product  in  a  kettle,  add  one  level  teaspoonful  salt 
to  each  quart,  and  a  little  butter,  and  sweeten  a 
trifle  with  sugar.  Cook  (stir  while  cooking)  until 
the  product  has  assumed  a  thickened  or  pastelike 
mass.      Then  pack  this  product  immediately  in  tin 


295 


296       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  I V— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


cans  or  hot  glass  jars  to  one-fourth  inch  of  the 
top.  Seal  jars  by  placing  rubber  and  cap  in  posi- 
tion and  seal  tin  cans  completely.  Place  jars  and 
cans  in  wash  boiler  or  sterilizer  and  process  (hot- 
water-bath)    1 80  minutes. 

After  this  product  has  been  sterilized  and  cooked 
and  stored  away,  it  will  form  a  solid,  butterlike 
mass,  which  when  removed  whole  from  the  jars  or 
pack  may  be  cut  in  convenient  slices  for  toasting, 
frying  and  baking  purposes,  and  will  make  a  de- 
licious food  product,  palatable,  economical  and 
nourishing. 

Vegetables  Such  as  Wax  Beans,  Stringless  Beans, 
Okra,  Green  Peppers,  Cabbage  and  Brussels 
Sprouts — String  or  hull.  Blanch  in  live  steam  for 
5  to  1 0  minutes.  Remove  and  dip  quickly  in  cold 
water.  Pack  in  hot  jars  or  tin  cans  and  add  boil- 
ing hot  water  until  jars  or  tin  cans  are  full.  Add 
one  level  teaspoonful  salt  to  each  quart.  Put  rub- 
bers and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Seal 
tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize  (water-bath)  120 
minutes. 

Lima  Beans,  Peas  and  Other  Vegetables  or  Com- 
binations of  Them — Blanch  in  live  steam  for  5  to 
1  0  minutes.  Dip  quickly  in  cold  water.  Pack  im- 
mediately in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans.  Add  boiling 
hot  water  to  fill  container.  Add  level  teaspoonful 
salt  per  quart.  Place  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in 
position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Ster- 
ilize (water-bath)  I  80  minutes.  Remove  from  con- 
tainer; tighten  cover;  invert  to  cool  and  test  the 
joints.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  breakage  and 
store. 

Peas — A  cloudy  or  hazy  appearance  of  the 
liquid  when  peas  are  keeping  well  indicates  that 
the  product  was  roughly  handled  in  blanching  and 
cold-dipping,  or  that  split  or  broken  peas  were  not 
removed  before  packing.  When  peas  are  too  old 
and  blanching  is  not  done  carefully,  the  skin  be- 
comes cracked  and  the  liquid  cloudy.  Some  waters 
of  high  mineral  content  have  a  tendency  to  in- 
crease cloudiness,  also  to  harden  the  peas. 

Cauliflower — Use  the  flowered  portion.  Plunge 
it  into  cold  brine  (one-half  pound  salt  to  1  2  quarts 
water).  Allow  the  cauliflower  to  remain  in  brine 
for  one  hour.  Blanch  it  three  minutes  and  dip 
quickly  into  cold  water.  Pack  it  in  hot  glass  jars 
or  tin  cans.  Fill  with  boiling  water  and  add  a  level 
teaspoonful  salt  for  each  quart.  Put  rubbers  and 
caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip 
tins.  Sterilize  (water-bath)  60  minutes.  Remove 
the  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  jars  to  cool,  and 
test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  with  paper  to  pre- 
vent bleaching. 

Mushrooms — Caution:  Unless  you  are  absolutely 
sure  that  you  know  a  mushroom  when  you  see  it, 
do  not  run  the  risk  of  gathering  and  using  for  food 
what  you  think  are  mushrooms.  A  large  number 
of    persons    are    poisoned    every    year    because    of 


carelessness  in  this  regard.  Many  very  poisonous 
plants  closely  resemble  edible  mushrooms.  Can 
mushrooms  immediately  after  picking;  if  allowed 
to  stand  they  become  unfit  for  use.  (See  Farmers' 
Bulletin,  796,  Some  Common  Edible  and  Poisonous 
Mushrooms.) 

Wash  and  trim  the  mushrooms.  If  small,  can 
them  whole;  if  large,  they  may  be  cut  into  sections. 
Blanch  the  mushrooms  in  boiling  water  5  minutes 
Remove  and  plunge  them  quickly  into  very  cold 
water.  Pack  in  hot  glass  jars  and  add  boiling 
water  to  cover;  add  one  level  teaspoonful  salt  to 
the  quart.  Place  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  posi- 
tion, not  tight.  Sterilize  (water-bath)  90  minutes. 
Remove  the  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  jars  to  cool 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  jars  in  paper.  If  can- 
ning in  tin,  always  use  lacquered  cans.  After  open- 
ing containers,  remove  the  mushrooms  immediately 
and  use  them  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Root  and  Tuber  Vegetables,  Such  as  Carrots, 
Parsnips,  Salsify,  Beets,  Turnips  and  Sweet  Pota- 
toes— Grade  for  size,  color  and  degree  of  ripeness. 
Wash  thoroughly,  use  vegetable  brush.  Scald  or 
blanch  in  hot  water  sufficiently  to  loosen  the  skin. 
Dip  quickly  into  cold  water.  Scrape  or  pare  to 
remove  skin.  Pack  whole  vegetables,  slices  or 
cross-section  pieces  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans. 
Add  boiling  hot  water  until  full.  Add  level  tea- 
spoonful salt  to  quart.  Place  rubbers  and  tops  of 
jars  in  position;  partially  seal,  but  not  tight.  Cap 
and  tip  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize  (water-bath) 
90  minutes.  Remove  jars  from  canner;  tighten 
covers;  invert  to  cool,  and  test  joints.  Wrap  in 
paper  and  store. 

How  to  Prevent  the  Fading  of  Beets — Small 
beets  that  run  40  to  the  quart  are  the  most  suitable 
size  for  first-class  packs.  The  older  the  beet  the 
more  chance  there  is  for  loss  of  color.  When  pre- 
paring the  beet,  leave  on  one  inch  of  the  stem  and 
all  of  the  tail  while  blanching.  Blanch  not  more 
than  5  minutes,  and  cold-dip.  The  skin  should  be 
scraped  from  the  beet,  not  peeled.  Beets  should 
be  packed  whole,  if  possible.  Well-canned  beets 
will  show  a  slight  loss  of  color  when  removed  from 
the  canner,  but  will  brighten  up  in  a  few  days. 

Greens  or  Potherbs — A  large  number  of  culti- 
vated and  wild  greens  are  edible,  and  if  canned  by 
this  method  will  make  a  succulent  and  valuable 
food  for  the  winter  and  spring  months.  Among 
the  cultivated  greens  are  Swiss  chard,  kale,  Chin- 
ese cabbage  leaves,  upland  cress,  French  endive, 
cabbage  sprouts,  turnip  tops,  young  tender  New 
Zealand  spinach,  beet  tops,  dandelion,  young  ten- 
der dasheen  sprouts,  native  mustard,  Russian  mus- 
tard, collards,  and  tender  rape  leaves.  Among  the 
wild  greens  are  pepper  cress.  Iambs  quarter,  sour 
dock,  smartweed,  sprouts,  purslane,  or  "pusley," 
pokeweed  sprouts,  dandelion,  marsh  marigold, 
wild  mustard,  and  milkweed  (tender  sprouts  and 
young  leaves). 


CLASS  31— CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 


297 


Can  the  day  they  are  picked.  Wash  clean,  sort 
thoroughly,  allowing  no  foreign  weed  leaves  or 
other  vegetable  matter  to  remain.  Rid  the  greens 
of  all  sand.  Rid  of  dry  or  decayed  or  diseased 
leaves.  Place  the  greens  in  a  crate  or  cheesecloth 
and  blanch  in  live  steam  either  in  an  improvised 
home-made  steamer  or  regular  commercial  steamer 
for  1 5  minutes.  Remove  the  greens  and  plunge 
quickly  into  cold  water.  Place  on  the  table  and 
cut  into  convenient  lengths.     Pack  tight  in  hot  jars 


or  tin  cans.  Add  hot  water  to  fill  the  container 
and  season  to  taste.  The  product  will  be  slightly 
improved  if  a  few  strips  of  boiled  bacon  or  chipped 
beef  are  added.  A  little  olive  oil  also  improves  the 
flavor.  If  using  glass  jars,  place  rubbers  and  tops 
in  position;  partially  seal.  If  using  tin  cans,  cap 
and  tip  completely.  Sterilize  (water-bath)  120 
minutes.  Remove  from  canner,  tighten  covers  of 
jars;  invert  to  cool,  and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  in 
paper  to  prevent  bleaching,   and  store. 


VEGETABLE   COMBINATIONS 


Corn  and  Tomato  Combination — Blanch  fresh 
corn  on  the  cob  5  minutes.  Cold-dip  quickly.  Cut 
the  corn  from  the  cob,  cutting  from  tip  to  butt. 
Scald  the  tomatoes  1  Yz  minutes  and  cold-dip.  Re- 
move the  skin  and  core.  Chop  tomatoes  into 
medium-sized  pieces.  Mix  thoroughly  2  parts 
tomatoes  with  1  part  corn.  Pack  the  mixture  in 
hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans.  Add  a  level 
teaspoonful  salt  per  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps 
of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans. 
Sterilize  (water-bath)  1 20  minutes.  Remove  the 
jars;  tighten  the  covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool,  and 
test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  with  paper  to  pre- 
vent bleaching. 

Corn,    Tomato    and   String   Bean   Combination — 


Use  1  part  corn,  I  part  green  string  beans,  3  part* 
tomatoes.  Blanch  fresh  corn  on  the  cob  5  min- 
utes and  cold-dip.  Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob, 
cutting  from  tip  to  butt.  Prepare  string  beans  and 
cut  them  into  convenient  lengths.  Blanch  them 
4  minutes  and  cold-dip.  Blanch  tomatoes  1  to 
3  minutes  and  cold-dip.  Remove  the  skin  and 
core.  Cut  the  tomatoes  into  medium-sized  pieces. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Pack  the  mixture  in  hot  glass 
jars  or  enameled  tin  cans.  Put  rubbers  and  caps 
of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin 
cans.  Sterilize  for  the  time  of  1  20  minutes  (water- 
bath).  Remove  the  jars;  tighten  the  covers;  in- 
vert the  jars  to  cool,  and  test  the  joints.  Wrap 
the  jars  with  paper  to  prevent  bleaching. 


FRUITS 


Soft  Fruits  and  Berries — These  include  apricots, 
blackberries,  blueberries,  cherries,  currants,  dew- 
berries, figs,  gooseberries,  grapes,  huckleberries, 
peaches,   plums,   raspberries   and   strawberries. 

After  hulling,  seeding,  stemming  or  skinning  the 
fruit,  place  fruit  in  a  strainer  and  rinse  by  pouring 
cold  water  over  it.  Pack  from  strainer  into  hot 
jars  or  cans  without  crushing,  using  big  spoon  or 
ladle.  Hot  syrup  previously  prepared  should  be 
poured  over  the  fruit  at  once.  Before  packing  a 
second  jar,  place  rubbers  and  caps  in  positions,  not 
tight.  If  using  tin  cans,  seal  completely.  Enam- 
eled tin  cans  should  be  used  for  all  highly  acid  ber- 
ries. Sterilize  (water-bath)  1 6  minutes.  Remove 
from  canner;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and 
test  joints.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching, 
and  store. 

Another  Recipe  for  Strawberries — Canned  by 
this  recipe,  strawberries  will  not  rise  to  the  top 
of  the  syrup.  Use  only  fresh,  ripe,  firm  and  sound 
berries.  Prepare  them  and  add  8  ounces  sugar 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  water  to  each  quart  of  ber- 
ries. Boil  slowly  for  1 5  minutes  in  an  enamel  or 
acid-proof  kettle.  Allow  the  berries  to  cool  and 
remain  several  hours  or  overnight  in  the  covered 
kettle.  Pack  the  cold  berries  in  hot  glass  jars  or 
enameled  tin  cans.  Put  the  rubbers  and  caps  of 
jars   in   position,    not   tight.  Cap    and    tip    tin    cans. 


Sterilize  (water-bath)  8  minutes.  Remove  the 
jars;  tighten  the  covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool, 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  with  paper  to 
prevent  bleaching. 

Hard  Fruits,  Apples,  Pears  and  Quinces — Re- 
move skin  and  core.  Cut  inte  convenient  sections 
or  slices  and  drop  into  slightly  salted  cold  water  to 
keep  from  tarnishing.  Blanch  1  Yz  minutes.  Cold- 
dip.  Pack  closely  into  hot  jars  or  tin  cans.  Fill 
with  hot  syrup.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in 
position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely. 
Sterilize  (water-bath)  20  minutes.  Remove  from 
canner;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool  and  test 
joints.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching,  and 
store. 

Windfall  Apples — Separate  apples  into  two 
grades;  whole  and  reasonably  sound  and  firm,  first 
grade;  all  other  apples  (bruised,  worm-eaten,  and 
those   containing  decayed  spots),    second   grade. 

Whole  Apples,  First  Grade — Pare  and  core. 
Drop  whole  apples  in  cold,  slightly  salted  water,  to 
keep  from  tarnishing.  Pack  whole  apples  in  gallon 
tin  cans  or  2-quart  hot  glass  jars.  Add  thin  hot 
syrup  until  full.  Place  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars  in 
position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Ster- 
ilize (water-bath)  1  6  minutes.  Remove  from  can- 
ner; tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  test  the  joints. 
Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching,   and  store. 


298       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


Apple-Pie  Filling — The  only  difference  between 
the  canning  of  apples  for  pie  filling  and  canning 
them  whole  as  by  the  directions  above  is  that  the 
apples  should  be  sliced  immediately  after  paring 
into  cold,  slightly  salted  water.  It  will  be 
found    desirable    to    can    first-grade    apples    either 


whole  or  quartered,  and  second-grade  apples  and 
products  prepared  from  poor  stock  sliced  for  use 
in  pie  filling.  Second-grade  apples  and  products 
prepared  from  poor  stock  should  not  be  sold,  of 
course,  without  labels  which  make  the  grade  plain. 


FRUIT 

The  fruit  juice  may  be  pressed  out  of  fruit  by 
means  of  a  cider  press,  special  fruit  press,  or  other 
improvised  press;  then  heated  in  an  acid-proof 
kettle  up  to  110°  F.  The  fruit  juice  may  then  be 
poured  into  ordinary  hot  jars,  hot  bottles,  or  tin 
cans,  and  handled  by  the  same  directions  as  those 
for  canning  of  fruit  itself.  If  poured  into  miscel- 
laneous bottles  it  is  suggested  that  the  fruit  juice 
be  sterilized  as  follows:  Make  a  cotton  stopper 
and   press   into    the    neck    of   the   bottle    and    leave 


JUICES 

during  the  sterilization  period.  Set  bottles  in  boil- 
ing hot  water  up  to  the  neck  of  the  bottle,  sterilize 
the  fruit  juice  for  40  minutes  at  a  temperature  of 
1 65°  F.  Remove  the  product,  press  cork  in  top 
over  cotton  stopper  immediately.  If  the  cork  fits 
well,  no  paraffin  need  be  used.  If  a  poor  cork, 
it  may  be  necessary  to  dip  the  cork  in  a  melted 
solution  of  wax  or  paraffin.  Fruit  juices  and  apple 
cider  when  handled  in  this  way  will  not  "flatten 
in  taste"  and  will  keep  well  for  future  use. 


SYRUP  MADE  FROM  WINDFALL 

Add  5  ounces  powdered  calcium  carbonate  to  7 
gallons  apple  cider.  Powdered  calcium  carbonate 
(carbonate  of  lime)  or,  to  give  it  its  common  name, 
precipitated  chalk,  is  low-priced  and  harmless. 
Boil  the  mixture  in  a  kettle  or  vat  vigorously  for 
5  minutes.  Pour  the  liquid  into  vessels,  preferably 
glass  jars  or  pitchers;  allow  to  stand  six  or  eight 
hours,  or  until  perfectly  clear.  Pour  the  clear  liquid 
into  a  preserving  kettle.  Do  not  allow  sediment 
at  bottom  to  enter.  Add  to  the  clear  liquid  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  lime  carbonate  and  stir  thor- 
oughly. The  process  is  completed  by  boiling  down 
rapidly  to  a  clear  liquid.  Use  density  gauge  or 
candy  thermometer,  and  bring  the  temperature 
up  to  220°  F.  If  a  thermometer  is  not  available, 
boil  until  bulk  is  reduced  to  one-seventh  of  the 
original  volume.  To  determine  whether  the  syrup 
is  cooked  enough  test  as  for  candy — by  pouring 
a  little  into  cold  water.  If  boiled  enough  it  should 
have  the  consistency  of  maple  syrup.  It  should 
not  be  cooked  long  enough  to  harden  like  candy 
when  tested. 


APPLES  AND    APPLE  CIDER 

When  the  test  shows  that  the  syrup  has  been 
cooked  enough,  pour  it  into  fruit  jars,  pitchers, 
etc.,  and  allow  it  to  cool  slowly.  Slow  cooling  is 
important,  as  otherwise  the  suspended  matter  will 
not  settle  properly  and  the  syrup  will  be  cloudy. 

A  good  way  to  insure  slow  cooling  is  to  stand 
the  vessels,  full  of  syrup,  in  a  bucket  or  a  wash- 
boiler  or  to  place  them  in  a  fireless  cooker.  The 
white  sediment  which  settles  out  during  cooking 
is  called  "malate  of  lime,"  and  is  a  harmless  com- 
pound of  lime  with  the  natural  acid  of  the  apple. 
When  the  syrup  is  cooled,  it  should  be  stored  in 
fruit  jars,  bottles,  or  jugs  and  crocks.  Place  the 
rubber  and  cap  or  cotton  stopper  or  cork  in  posi- 
tion and  tighten.  Place  the  container  in  boiling 
hot  water  and  sterilize  (water-bath)  1 5  minutes. 
Remove  jars  and  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool  and 
test  the  joints.  Store  for  future  use.  This  recipe 
is  for  making  syrup  primarily  for  home  consump- 
tion. If  the  product  is  to  be  sold  legal  require- 
ments as  to  labeling  should  be  ascertained  and 
complied  with. 


PRESERVES 

The  one-period,  cold-pack  method  of  canning  will  be  found  especially  help- 
ful in  eliminating  the  necessity  of  using  paraffin  or  other  wax  tops  for  jellies,  jams 
and  preserves.  Three  recipes  and  directions  for  canning  jellies,  jams  and  preserves 
by  this  method  follow  to  illustrate  the  application  of  the  method.  The  use  of  con- 
tainers with  screw  tops  is  recommended  for  these  products.  This  will  make  un- 
necessary the  expense  and  trouble  of  using  paraffin,  and  will  make  the  melting, 
molding  and  deterioration  of  the  top  parts  of  the  packs  less  likely. 


Strawberry — Make  a  syrup  of  I  quart  of  water 
and  1  1  pounds  of  sugar  and  cook  it  in  an  open 
kettle  until  the  usual  temperature  for  making  can- 
dies, jellies,  etc.,  is  reached.  If  a  candy  ther- 
mometer is  used  cook  the  preserves  until  they 
reach  a  temperature  of  265°  F.  A  candy  ther- 
mometer registers  265°  F.  when  placed  in  the 
syrup.       Add    8    pounds    of    berries    to  "the    syrup. 


Cook  very  slowly,  just  at  the  boiling  point.  Stop 
the  cooking  when  the  thermometer  registers  219° 
F.  and  pour  into  shallow  pans  to  cool.  Hasten  the 
cooling  by  pouring  syrup  over  the  berries.  Skim 
while  cooking.  Fill  into  hot  jars.  Put  the  rubber 
and  cap  into  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  if 
using  enameled  tin  cans.  Sterilize  (water-bath) 
20     minutes.        Remove     the     jars;     tighten     covers; 


CLASS  31— CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 


299 


invert  the  jars  to   cool,   and   test  for  leaks.      Wrap 
the  jars   in   paper  to   prevent  bleaching. 

Cherry — Place  1  gallon  of  cold  water  in  a  kettle 
and  add  1  0  pounds  of  pitted  cherries.  After  bring- 
ing to  boiling  point  continue  to  boil  slowly  for  18 
minutes.  Add  1 2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and 
cook  until  after  the  mixture  has  been  boiled  vio- 
lently for  a  few  minutes.  If  a  candy  thermometer 
is  used  cook  the  mixture  until  a  temperature  of 
219°  F.  is  reached.  Pack  into  hot  glass  jars.  Put 
the  rubber  and  cap  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap 
and  tip  if  using  enameled  tin  cans.  Sterilize 
(water-bath)    20    minutes. 


SUN  PRESERVES 
Strawberry — Select  ripe,  firm  berries.  Pick  and 
preserve  the  same  day.  Hull  and  rinse  as  in  No.  1 
under  Strawberry  Canning.  Place  them  in  a  shal- 
low platter  in  a  single  layer;  sprinkle  sugar  over 
them;  pour  over  them  fifty  degree  syrup  (same  as 
strawberry  preserves,  but  boiled  thicker).  Cover 
them  with  a  glass  dish  or  a  plain  window  glass. 
Allow  them  to  stand  in  the  hot  sun  8  to  1 2  hours. 
Pack  them  in  hot  screw-top  jelly  glasses.  Put  the 
rubber  and  cap  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and 
tip  if  using  enameled  tin  cans.  Sterilize  (water- 
bath)  20  minutes.  Remove  the  jars;  tighten  cov- 
ers; invert  the  jars  to  cool,  and  test  the  joint. 
Wrap  the  jars  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching. 


SOUPS 


Beef    Stock    Soup Strip    off    the    fat    and    meat 

from  25  pounds  of  beef  hocks,  joints  and  bones 
containing  marrow.  Crack  bones  with  a  hatchet 
or  cleaver.  Reserve  meat  and  fat  for  other  use. 
Put  the  broken  bones  into  a  thin  cloth  sack  and 
place  in  a  large  kettle  containing  5  gallons  of 
cold  water.  Simmer  (do  not  boil)  for  6  or  7 
hours.  Do  not  salt  while  simmering.  Skim  off 
fat.      This  should  make  about  5   gallons  of  stock. 

List   of  supplies  needed 25    pounds  beef  bones; 

5  gallons  water. 

Pack  hot  into  hot  glass  jars,  bottles,  or  enam- 
eled or  lacquered  tin  cans.  Partially  seal  glass 
jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  (water- 
bath)    90  minutes. 

Vegetable  Soup — Soak  '/£  pound  lima  beans  and 
1  pound  rice  for  12  hours.  Boil  Yl  pound  pearl 
barley  for  2  hours.  Blanch  I  pound  carrots,  I 
pound  onions,  1  medium-sized  potato,  and  1  red 
pepper  for  3  minutes,  and  cold-dip.  Prepare  the 
vegetables  and  cut  into  small  cubes.  Mix  thorough- 
ly lima  beans,  rice,  barley,  carrots,  onions,  pota- 
toes and  red  pepper.  Fill  hot  glass  jars  or  enam- 
eled tin  cans  24  ruH  or  above  mixture  of  vegetables 
and  cereals.  Make  a  smooth  paste  of  Yl  pound 
wheat  flour  and  blend  in  5  gallons  of  soup  stock. 
Boil  3   minutes  and  add   4   ounces  salt. 

List  of  supplies  needed:  Ya  pound  lima  beans; 
1  pound  rice;  Yl  pound  pearl  barley;  I  pound 
carrots;  I  pound  onions;  1  medium-sized  potato; 
I  red  pepper;  Yl  pound  flour;  4  ounces  salt;  5  gal- 
lons soup  stock. 

Pour  stock  over  vegetables  and  fill  cans  or  hot 
glass  jars.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip 
tin  cans.      Sterilize    (water-bath)    90  minutes. 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup Soak  8   pounds  dried  peas 

overnight.  Cook  until  soft.  Mash  fine.  Add  the 
mashed  peas  to  5  Yl  gallons  of  soup  stock  and 
bring  to  boil.  Pass  the  boiling  liquid  through  a 
fine  sieve.  Make  a  smooth  paste  of  Yl  pound  flour 
and  add  paste,  I  0  ounces  sugar,  and  3  ounces  salt 
to  the  soup  stock.  Cook  until  soup  begins  to 
thicken. 


Pack  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans.  Partially 
seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize 
(water-bath)     90    minutes. 

Cream  of  Potato  Soup — Boil  1  Yl  pounds  pota- 
toes, sliced  thin,  and  5  gallons  soup  stock  for  20 
minutes.  Add  3  ounces  salt,  Ya  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, and  Yl  pound  butter,  and  boil  slowly  for  5 
minutes.  Make  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  into 
smooth  paste   and   add  to   the  above. 

Cook  3  minutes  and  pack  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin 
cans  while  hot.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap 
and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  (water-bath)  90  min- 
utes. 

Bean   Soup Soak    3    pounds   beans    1 2    hours    in 

cold  water.  Cut  2  pounds  ham  meat  into  |^-inch 
cubes  and  place  in  a  small  sack.  Place  the  beans, 
ham,  and  4  gallons  water  in  a  kettle  and  boil 
slowly  until  the  beans  are  very  soft.  Remove  the 
beans  and  ham  from  the  liquor  and  mash  the  beans 
fine.  Return  the  ham  and  mashed  beans  to  the 
liquor  and  add  5  gallons  soup  stock  and  seasoning 
and  bring  to  boil. 

Pack  into  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  while  hot. 
Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans. 
Sterilize    (water-bath)    90   minutes. 

Okra  Soup Slice  8  pounds  okra  into  thin  discs. 

Blanch  1 0  minutes  and  cold-dip.  Boil  I  Yl  pounds 
rice  for  25  minutes.  Mix  the  okra  and  rice  and 
fill  the  cans  or  hot  jars  half  full.  To  5  gallons 
soup  stock  add  5  ounces  salt,  Ya  teaspoonful  cori- 
ander seed,  and  Ya  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves, 
and  bring  to  a  boil.  Fill  the  remaining  portion  of 
the  jars  or  cans  with  the  seasoned  food.  Partially 
seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize 
(water-bath)    90  minutes. 

Tomato     Pulp     for     Cream     of    Tomato     Soup — 

Place  tomatoes  in  a  wire  basket  or  piece  of 
cheesecloth  and  plunge  into  boiling  water  from 
1  to  3  minutes.  Plunge  into  cold  water.  Remove 
the  skin  and  core.  Place  tomatoes  in  a  kettle  and 
boil  30  minutes.  Pass  the  tomato  pulp  through  a 
sieve.      Pack   in    hot    glass   jars   and    tin    cans   while 


300       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


hot,  and  add  a  level  teaspoonful  salt  per  quart. 
Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans. 
Sterilize   (water-bath)    30  minutes. 

Chicken-Soup  Stock — Place  30  pounds  chicken 
in  1 0  gallons  cold  water  and  simmer  over  fire  for 
5  hours.  Remove  meat  from  bones,  then  strain. 
Add  sufficient  water  to  make   1  0  gallons  stock. 

Fill  hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans  with  the 
hot  stock.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip 
tin  cans.     Sterilize  (water-bath)   90  minutes. 

Chicken  Broth  with  Rice — For  each  gallon  of 
soup  stock  use  1 2  ounces  of  rice.  Boil  the  rice 
30  minutes.  Fill  hot  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans 
two-thirds  full  of  rice  and  the  remainder  with  soup 
stock.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin 
cans.      Sterilize   (water-bath)    90  minutes. 

Chicken  Gumbo — Cut  2  pounds  ham  into  small 
cubes  and  boil  30  minutes.  Mince  3  pounds  chick- 
en and  chop  Yl  pound  of  onions  fine.  Make  a 
smooth  paste  of  Yl  pound  flour.  Add  above  to  5 
gallons  of  chicken  soup  stock.  Then  add  Yl  pound 
butter  and  Ya  pound  salt  and  boil  10  minutes;  then 
add  3  ounces  powdered  okra  mixed  with  1  pint  of 
water. 


Fill  into  hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans 
while  hot.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip 
tin  cans.     Sterilize   (water-bath)    90  minutes. 

VEGETABLES  FOR  SOUP 

If  it  is  impracticable  to  obtain  materials  in  the 
summer  for  making  soup  stock  when  vegetables 
are  abundantly  available,  the  vegetable  portion  of 
the  soup  may  be  canned  alone.  The  preparation 
of  soup  from  cans  of  such  vegetable  combinations 
will  be  a  relatively  simple  matter  whenever  stock 
is  available,  as  it  should  be  in  most  households  if 
meat  refuse  is  properly  utilized. 

Soak  6  pounds  lima  beans  and  4  pounds  dry 
peas  over  night.  Boil  each  Yl  hour.  Blanch  1 6 
pounds  carrots,  6  pounds  cabbage,  3  pounds  celery, 
6  pounds  turnips,  4  pounds  okra,  1  pound  onions, 
and  4  pounds  parsley,  for  3  minutes,  and  dip  all 
in  cold  water  quickly.  Prepare  the  vegetables  and 
chop  them  into  small  cubes.  Chop  the  onions  and 
celery  extra  fine.  Mix  all  of  the  vegetables  to- 
gether thoroughly  and  season  to  taste. 

Pack  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans.  Fill  with 
boiling  water.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and 
tip    tin    cans.      Sterilize    (water-bath)    90    minutes. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CLASS  31— CANNING  AND  PRESERVING  301 

PRESERVING  MEATS 

(U.    S.    Department    of   Agriculture) 

While  meats  may  be  canned  successfully  if  directions  are  followed  care- 
fully, it  is  perhaps  advisable  for  beginners  in  canning  to  start  with  vegetables  and 
fruits,  taking  up  the  canning  of  meats  only  after  thorough  familiarity  with  the  pro- 
cess described  in  this  bulletin  has  been  acquired.  If  canned  meat  products  are  to 
be  offered  for  sale  through  interstate  shipment,  inquiry  should  be  made  of  the 
U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture  and  State  food  regulating  agencies  in  regard  to 
the  steps  which  must  be  taken  to  comply  with  the  United  States  meat-inspection 
regulations  and  local  laws. 

Poultry  and  Game  Birds — Recipe  No.  1  — Kill  fowl  and  draw  at  once ;  wash  carefully 
and  cool;  cut  into  convenient  sections.  Place  in  wire  basket  or  cheesecloth  and  boil  until 
meat  can  be  removed  from  bones;  remove  from  boiling  liquid  and  remove  meat  from 
bones;  pack  closely  into  glass  jars  or  enameled  cans;  fill  jars  with  pot  liquid,  after  it  has 
been  concentrated  one-half;  add  level  teaspoonful  salt  per  quart  of  meat,  for  seasoning; 
put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  (water- 
bath)  3  hours.  Remove  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool  and  test  joints.  Wrap  jars  with 
paper. 

Recipe  No.  2 — Kill  fowl  and  draw  at  once;  wash  carefully  and  cool;  cut  into  con- 
venient sections ;  scald  in  boiling  water  and  dip  at  once  into  cold  water.  Pack  immediately 
into  glass  jars  or  enameled  cans;  fill  with  boiling  water;  add  level  teaspoonful  salt  per  quart; 
put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  (water 
bath)  3  hours.  Remove  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and  test  joints.  Wrap  jars  with 
paper  to  prevent  bleaching. 

Fresh  Beef — Obtain  fresh  beef,  cut  into  convenient  pieces  for  handling  (about  34  lb. 
in  weight),  and  roast  or  boil  slowly  for  one-half  hour.  Cut  into  small  pieces,  remove 
gristle,  bone,  and  excessive  fat,  and  pack  directly  into  hot  glass  jars;  fill  with  gravy  from  the 
roasting  pan  or  pot  liquid  to  one-half  its  volume;  put  rubber  and  cap  in  position,  not  tight. 
Sterilize    (water-bath)    3  hours. 

Corned  Beef — After  beef  has  been  properly  corned  for  required  time,  remove  the 
meat  from  the  brine;  soak  for  two  hours  in  clear  water,  changing  the  water  once;  place  in 
a  wire  basket  and  boil  slowly  for  one-half  hour;  remove  from  the  boiling  water,  plunge 
into  cold  water,  and  remove  gristle,  bone  and  excessive  fat.  Cut  meat  into  small  pieces  and 
pack  closely  into  hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  cans.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position, 
not  tight.     Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.     Sterilize   (water-bath)   3  hours. 

SPECIALLY  PREPARED  MEATS 

Spring  Chicken,  Fried — After  cleaning  and  preparing  spring  frys,  season  and  fry  as 
though  preparing  for  serving  directly  on  the  table.  Cook  until  the  meat  is  about  %  done. 
If  a  whole  spring  chicken,  break  the  neck  and  both  legs  and  fold  around  body  of  chicken. 
Roll  up  tight,  tie  a  string  around  the  chicken,  and  drop  this  hot,  partially  fried  product  into 
hot  quart  glass  jar  or  enameled  tin  can.  A  quart  jar  will  hold  two  to  four  small  chickens. 
Pour  liquid  from  the  griddle  or  frying  pan  into  the  container  over  the  chicken.  Place  rubbers 
and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  (water-bath)  90 
minutes. 

In  a  similar  way  any  fowl  or  wild  game  may  be  prepared  by  frying,  oven-baking, 
roasting  or  stewing.  The  meat  products  which  may  be  canned  in  this  way  include  beef, 
pork,  Hamburg  steak,  sausage,  venison,  rabbit,  squirrel,  raccoon,  opossum,  lamb  and  all 
types  of  sea-food.     All  may  be  packed  after  cooking  three-fourths  done  in  any  desired  way. 


302       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 

Hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans  may  be  used.  When  the  products  are  packed  while 
hot  in  the  containers  the  hot  liquids,  gravies,  dressings,  etc.,  or  hot  water,  should  be  poured 
over  them.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans. 
Sterilize   (water-bath)    90  minutes.      Tighten  jars  and  invert  to  test  joints. 

CAMP  RATIONS 

Ration  No.  1 — Products  required  for  mixture:  4  lbs.  rice;  1  lb.  fresh  green  peppers; 
4  chili  peppers;  4  cloves  or  2  garlic;  4  quarts  tomatoes;  1  lb.  cheese  (or  Yl  lb.  butter);  1 
lb.  fresh  pork;  4  Spanish  peppers;  8  level  teaspoonfuls  salt;  4  quarts  water. 

Put  the  meat,  peppers  and  garlic  through  a  food  chopper.  Mix  with  tomatoes, 
water  and  salt.  Cook  on  slow  fire,  simmering  for  45  minutes.  Soak  rice  in  salted  water  for 
20  minutes.  Rinse  with  cold  water  at  once.  Mix  this  product  with  the  sauce  without  strain- 
ing.    Grind  or  grate  cheese  and  mix  thoroughly  with  all  the  other  products. 

To  can  this  ration,  the  mixture  should  be  packed  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  while 
hot.  Place  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  seal  tin  cans.  Sterilize 
(water-bath)  90  minutes.  Remove  jars  or  cans;  tighten  glass  jar  covers;  invert  to  cool 
and  test  joints.      Wrap  jars  to  prevent  bleaching,  and  store. 

Ration  No.  2 — Products  required  for  mixture :  1  lb.  rice  or  hominy,  cracked ;  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt;  J/2  lb.  bacon  or  chipped  beef  cut  into  small  pieces;  1  lb.  mixed  equal  parts 
carrots,  onions,  beans,  Irish  potatoes;  2  quarts  water  or  milk  (or  1  quart  water  and  1  quart 
milk)  ;  \Zl  lb.  sweet  green  peppers  cut  fine;  1  pint  strained  tomatoes;  season  with  celery  salt 
or  celery  seed. 

Cook  rice  or  hominy,  water  or  milk,  and  salt,  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  rice  or 
hominy  is  soft.  Bacon  or  chipped  beef,  green  peppers,  and  the  strained  tomatoes  should  be 
cooked  or  boiled  separately.  Then  add  to  this  mixture  the  1  lb.  mixture  of  vegetables  and 
season  with  mixed  spices.  Cook  this  vegetable  combination  until  done.  Mix  at  once  rice, 
bacon,  green  peppers,  etc.     Stir  this  well  into  the  mixture. 

The  product  to  be  canned  should  be  hot  and  thoroughly  mixed.  Pack  mixture  into 
hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  at  once  to  one-eighth  inch  of  top.  Place  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in 
position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize  (water-bath)  90  minutes.  Remove 
jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,   and  test  joints.     Wrap  and  store. 

Ration  No.  3 — One-Pound  Pack.  Products  used :  8  oz.  beef ;  2  oz.  potatoes ;  2  oz. 
onions;  I  oz.  carrots;   1  oz.  beans;  2  oz.  beef  gravy. 

Parboil  the  beef  in  kettle  with  thin  gravy  for  30  minutes.  Cut  up  potatoes,  onions 
and  carrots  into  small  sections;  add  the  beans.  Place  entire  mixture  into  kettle;  add  the 
gravy,  season  to  taste.     Stir  mixture  and  cook  for  I  0  minutes. 

To  can  the  mixture,  pack  it  into  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  to  one-eighth  inch  of  top. 
Place  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  If  using  tin  cans,  seal  completely.  Ster- 
ilize (water-bath)  90  minutes.  Remove  jars  or  cans;  tighten  jar  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and 
test  joints.     Wrap  and  store. 


JELLIES   AND   PRESERVES 

Preserving — (Farmers'  Bulletin  853,  on  Home  Canning) — A  preserve  is 
the  product  resulting  when  whole  fruits  are  cooked  in  syrup  until  clear  and  transpar- 
ent. When  properly  made  the  fruit  in  the  preserve  keeps  its  form,  is  plump,  tender, 
clear,  and  of  good  color,  the  surrounding  syrup  being  also  clear  and  of  proper 
density. 

Cook  Fruit  as  Little  as  Possible — (Farmers'    Bulletin    853,    on    Home    Canning) 

— Since  long  cooking  injures  the  color  and  flavor  of  fruits  it  is  desirable  to  cook  delicate 
fruits  such  as  berries  for  as  short  a  time  as  possible.  Cooling  rapidly  after  cooking  gives  pre- 
serves a  better  color  and  flavor  than  can  be  secured  when  they  are  packed  hot.  Standing 
immersed  in  syrup  after  cooking  also  helps  to  plump  them.  If  berry  preserves  are  covered 
for  a  brief  time  before  removing  from  fire  and  the  vessel  left  covered  while  cooling  the 
product  will  be  more  plump.     For  cooling,  shallow  enamel  trays  or  pans  are  desirable. 

To  sterilize  jars  place  them  in  cold  water,  then  heat  to  boiling  point  until  ready  to 
use.     Cover  fruit  with  melted  paraffin  as  soon  as  fruit  is  cold. 

Fruit  for  Jelly  Making — (Farmers'  Bulletin  853,  on  Home  Canning) — The  juice 
from  certain  fruits,  such  as  grape,  apple,  crabapple,  orange,  kumquat,  and  currant  is  better 
suited  for  making  a  natural  fruit  jelly  than  juices  from  other  fruits.  The  juices  from  these 
fruits  contain  the  properties  necessary  for  jelly  making.  The  best  fruits  for  jelly  making  con- 
tain pectin  and  acid.  Pectin,  the  fundamental  jelly  making  substance,  does  not  exist  in  some 
fruits  in  sufficient  amount  to  make  jelly  without  the  addition  of  pectin  from  some  other 
source.  The  peach,  strawberry,  and  cherry  are  examples  of  fruits  which  contain  acid  bul 
are  lacking  in  pectin.  Pear,  guava,  and  quince  contain  pectin  but  are  deficient  in  acid.  If 
the  missing  property  be  added  in  each  of  these  fruits,  a  jelly  with  the  color  and  flavor  of  the 
fruit  selected  can  be  made. 

When  making  the  various  jellies  use  a  few  apples  with  the  fruit  juice  as  it  improves 
both  quality  and  flavor.  Combinations  of  fruit  often  produces  far  more  delicious  and 
unusual  results  than  the  use  of  one  variety  alone. 

Jelly  Making  Substance — (Cornell  Reading  Course) — The  jelly  making  substance 
in  fruit  is  obtained  by  cooking  the  fruit  with  water  and  thus  extracting  its  juices.  The 
amount  of  water  and  the  time  required  to  extract  the  jelly  making  substance  depend  on 
the  dryness  and  kind  of  fruit.  Juicy  fruits,  such  as  currents,  berries,  plums,  and  grapes, 
require  little  water  and  are  quickly  softened  so  that  their  juices  may  be  extracted  by  heat. 
Dry  fruits,  such  as  apples  and  quinces,  require  more  water  and  longer  cooking  than  do  juicy 
fruits.  The  white  inner  skin  of  oranges,  lemons,  and  grapefruit  will,  if  cooked  in  water  for 
a  long  time,  yield  the  jelly  making  substance. 

To  Strain  Jelly — (Farmers'  Bulletin  853  on  Home  Canning) — As  soon  as  the 
fruit  is  tender  the  liquid  should  be  squeezed  through  a  cheesecloth  and  then  be  allowed  to 
drip,  without  pressure,  through  a  flannel  jelly  bag. 

Filling  Glasses — (Farmers'  Bulletin  853,  on  Home  Canning) — After  skimming 
the  jelly,  pour  at  once  into  hot  sterilized  glasses  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

To  Guarantee  Whether  Your  Jelly  Will  Jell — By  using  a  simple  test  much  waste  of 
sugar  and  spoiling  of  jellies  can  be  avoided.  To  decide  how  much  sugar  should  be  used  with 
different  kinds  of  juices,  put  a  spoonful  of  juice  in  a  glass  and  add  1  spoonful  of  pure 
alcohol,  shake  the  glass  gently  to  mix.  Pour  slowly  from  the  glass;  note  how  the  pectin  or 
vegetable  jelly  settles.  If  it  settles  as  one  lump,  a  cup  of  sugar  may  be  used  for  each  cup  of 
juice;  if  in  several  lumps  use  54  of  a  cup  sugar  to  1  cup  of  juice;  if  not  in  lumps  but  merely 

303 


304        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


settled  use   Yl   or  'ess  °f  a  CUP  °f  sugar  to    1  cup  juice;  if  no  formation  under  this  test,  it  is 
unsuitable  for  jelly  making  and  should  be  combined  with  apples  or  other  fruits  rich  in  pectin. 

Jams  and  Marmalades — (Cornell  Reading  Course) — If  in  directions  for  making  jams 
and  marmalades  the  jelly-making  property  of  fruits  were  given  greater  consideration  than  is 
commonly  the  case,  the  product  would  be  improved  in  both  taste  and  wholesomeness.  The 
object  sought  in  making  jams  and  marmalades  is  a  rich,  sweet  product  which  will  keep  easily, 
which  is  not  so  firm  as  jelly  and  yet  has  something  of  the  body  of  jelly,  which  is  not  so  soft 
and  tough  as  is  the  so-called  preserve  and  yet  has  something  of  its  softness  and  stickiness. 
In  short,  jams  and  marmalades  should  be  skillfully  produced  crosses  between  jellies  and 
preserves. 

Directions  for  Making  Jams  and  Marmalades — (Cornell  Reading  Course) — Wash 
the  fruit  and  prepare  it  as  the  kind  requires.  If  large  fruits  are  used,  core  and  halve, 
quarter,  slice,  or  chop  them.  If  berries  or  grapes  are  used,  crush  them.  For  each  quart 
of  fruit  use:  for  dry  fruits,  J^  to  2  cupfuls  of  water;  for  juicy  fruits,  J^  to  J4  cupful  of 
water.  Common  sense  must  ultimately  regulate  the  amount  of  water.  The  least  amount  that 
is  possible  for  good  results  should  be  used.  Simmer  the  fruit  until  it  is  tender  and  the  juice 
is  extracted.  If  seeds  are  to  be  removed,  rub  the  cooked  fruit  through  a  colander.  To  1 
quart  of  cooked  fruit,  add  two-thirds  to  1  quart  of  sugar.  Acid,  juicy  fruits  require  the 
larger  amount  of  sugar.  Cook  the  mixture  until  it  is  thick,  stirring  it  continuously  in  order 
to  prevent  burning,  then  pour  it  into  sterilized  glasses  or  small  jars.  If  a  jelly-like  consist- 
ency is  desired,  cook  the  mixture  until  it  jellies  from  the  spoon.  If  a  richer  mixture  is  desired, 
cook  it  for  5  to  1  0  minutes  longer 


RECIPES 

Sun  Preserves  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — Meth- 
od 1 — Fruits  that  lend  themselves  especially  well  to 
the  following  method  of  preserving  are  strawber- 
ries, cherries,  white  currants,  and  raspberries.  Use 
I  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  Put  a  layer 
of  fruit  in  the  bottom  of  a  preserving  kettle  and 
add  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Alternate  the 
layers  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Heat  the  mixture  care- 
fully until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  avoid  crushing 
the  fruit  if  possible.  Boil  the  mixture  for  from  5 
to  7  minutes,  pour  it  in  thin  layers  onto  large 
platters,  and  set  it  in  the  sun  for  a  day.  It  should 
thicken  or  jelly  on  the  platter.  After  it  has  cooled 
and  thickened,  transfer  it  from  the  platter  to  ster- 
ilized jars,  and  seal  or  cover  them  with  paraffin. 

Method  2 — Fruits  that  lend  themselves  espe- 
cially well  to  the  following  method  of  preserving 
are  peaches,  apricots,  raspberries  and  plums.  Care- 
fully wipe  or  pick  over  the  fruit  to  be  preserved. 
Cut  peaches,  plums,  or  apricots  in  halves,  and  re- 
move the  pits.  Spread  the  fruit  on  racks  or  boards 
and  set  it  in  the  sun  to  dry  for  1  or  2  days.  The 
fruit  should  not  be  left  out  overnight  to  gather 
moisture.  Weigh  the  fruit  and  use  a  pound  of 
either  brown  or  white  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 
Pack  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  sugar  in  jars, 
being  careful  to  have  the  top  layer  of  sugar.  The 
sugar  will  dissolve  gradually  and  form  a  thick,  rich 
syrup  around  the  fruit.  The  mixture  should  be 
kept  covered,  but  need  not  be  sealed. 

Fig  Preserves  (Farmers'  Bulletin  853,  on  HOME 
CANNING) Six     quarts     figs,     2     quarts     sugar,     2 


quarts  water.  Put  the  figs  into  a  boiling  soda  solu- 
tion (I  cup  soda  to  6  quarts  of  boiling  water),  and 
allow  figs  to  remain  about  5  minutes.  Rinse  the 
figs  well  by  putting  them  through  two  cold  baths. 
Drain  the  fruit  thoroughly  and  add  gradually  to  the 
skimmed  syrup,  which  has  been  made  by  boiling 
the  sugar  and  water  together  for  1  0  minutes.  Cook 
rapidly  until  the  figs  are  clear  and  tender  (about 
2  hours).  Carefully  lift  the  fruit  out  and  place  in 
shallow  pans.  Cover  the  figs  with  the  syrup  and 
allow  to  stand  overnight.  Pack  the  cold  figs  in 
sterilized  jars,  fill  each  jar  to  overflowing  with  the 
syrup.      Cap,   clamp,  and  process. 

Strawberry  Preserves   (Farmers'  Bulletin  853,  on 

HOME     CANNING) Two     pounds     berries,      \]/2 

pounds  sugar,  1  cup  berry  juice.  Pick  over  the 
fruit  and  put  together  all  firm,  perfect  berries. 
Slightly  heat,  crush,  and  strain  the  others  to  obtain 
the  juice.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  juice, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point,  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
cool  before  adding  the  berries.  Add  the  berries  a 
few  at  a  time.  Place  again  over  the  fire  and  heat 
slowly  to  boiling.  Cook  rapidly  to  106°  C.  or  223° 
F.  If  a  thermometer  is  not  at  hand,  cook  until 
berries  are  bright  and  transparent.  Cool  and  pack 
cold  in  sterilized  jars.  Process  at  simmering  (87°  C. 
or  188°  F.)  to  give  best  results  in  color  and  flavor. 
For  I  2-ounce  or  pint  jars  at  this  temperature,  pro- 
cess for  Yl  hour.  Other  berries  may  be  preserved 
in  the  same  way. 

Watermelon    Preserves     (Farmers'    Bulletin    853, 
on   HOME  CANNING) — Cut    I    pound   watermelon 


CLASS  31— CANNING  AND  PRESERVING 


305 


rind  into  inch  squares.  Allow  to  stand  overnight 
in  clear  water.  Drain  and  cover  with  about  30° 
syrup  (2  cupfuls  sugar  to  I  quart  water).  Boil 
for  25  minutes.  Let  stand  overnight  immersed  in 
syrup.  Next  morning  add  juice  of  J/J  lemon  and 
3  slices  of  lemon  additional  for  each  pound.  Cook 
until  transparent  (about  1  hour).  Let  stand  until 
cold.  Pack,  add  the  syrup,  garnishing  with  slices 
of  lemon,   cap,   and  process. 

Cherry  Preserves  (Farmers'  Bulletin  853,  on 
HOME  CANNING) — Four  pounds  of  cherries,  3 
pounds  sugar,  I  cupful  cherry  juice.  Make  a  syrup 
of  the  sugar  and  fruit  juice,  cool,  add  seeded  cher- 
ries, and  cook  rapidly  until  fruit  is  clear  and  syrup 
is  of  the  proper  consistency.  If  a  thermometer  is 
used,  finish  cherry  preserves  at  I  06°  to  1  08°  C.  or 
223°  F.  to  226°  F.  Cool,  pack  into  jars,  and  pro- 
cess as  for  other  preserves. 

Apple  Jelly    (Farmers'    Bulletin    853,    on    HOME 

CANNING) One  pound  fruit,  2  pounds  water,  boil 

together  for  J/J  to  %  hour  and  strain. 

One    pint    strained    juice determine    amount    of 

sugar  to  be  added  by  the  use  of  the  alcohol  test 
previously  given — bring  the  juice  to  a  boil,  add  the 
sugar  and  cook  as  rapidly  as  possible  until  the  jelly 
point  is  reached.  Remove  from  the  fire,  skim,  pour 
into  hot  sterilized  glasses,  and  when  cold  cover 
with  melted  paraffin. 

Apple  and  Grape  Jelly — Wash,  core  and  slice 
apples  with  the  peel  left  on.  Take  equal  parts  of 
apples  and  grapes  and  half  as  much  water  as  fruit. 
Cook  until  soft,  strain  in  jelly  bag  and  measure 
the  juice.  To  each  cupful  of  juice  add  1  cupful 
sugar.  Cook  the  juice  20  minutes  uncovered,  then 
add  the  sugar.     Cook  until  it  jellies. 

Grape  Jelly  (Farmers'  Bulletin  853,  on  HOME 
CANNING) — Four  pounds  grapes,  1  pound  water; 
crush  and  boil  together  for  20  minutes,  press 
through  a  jelly  bag,  and  allow  to  drain  through 
a  flannel  bag. 

Test  the  strained  juice  with  alcohol  to  deter- 
mine the  proportion  of  sugar  to  use.  Bring  the 
grape  juice  to  boiling,  add  sugar,  and  stir  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Continue  the  boiling  until 
the  jelly  point  is  reached.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  skim.  Pour  into  hot  sterilized  glasses,  cool, 
and  store. 

Currant  Jelly — Cook  currants  with  a  little  water, 
strain;  add  1  pound  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice; 
after  it  begins   to  boil  skim  well.      Boil   3    minutes. 

Raspberries,  plums  and  all  other  juicy  fruits  are 
cooked  in  this  way. 

Dry  Fruits,  such  as  apples  and  quinces,  are  also 
cooked  this  way,  but  require  more  water  and 
longer   cooking.       (See    general   directions.) 

Mint  Jelly  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — The  best 
mint  jelly  is  made  with  the  juice  of  slightly  unripe 
apples  as  a  basis.  Wash  fresh  mint  leaves  thor- 
oughly.     To   1    cupful  of  mint  leaves   (packed  solid) 


add  1  cupful  of  boiling  water,  set  the  mixture  on 
the  back  of  the  stove,  and  steep  it  for  an  hour. 
Lay  a  piece  of  cheesecloth  over  a  bowl,  pour  the 
steeped  mint  leaves  into  it,  twist  the  ends  of  the 
cheesecloth,  and  press  out  all  moisture.  To  I  cup- 
ful of  apple  juice  add  1  to  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mint 
juice.  If  the  mint  flavor  is  not  sufficiently  pro- 
nounced add  a  drop  or  two  of  mint  extract.  Use 
^4  cupful  of  sugar  to  each  cupful  of  juice,  and 
boil  the  mixture  rapidly  until  the  jelly  test  can  be 
obtained.  Just  before  it  is  poured  into  the  scalded 
glasses,  color  it  green  with  vegetable  coloring 
matter. 

Blackberry  Jelly  (Farmers'  Bulletin  853,  on 
HOME  CANNING) — Four  pounds  blackberries,  1 
pound  water. 

Select  3  pounds  of  ripe  fruit  and  1  pound  of 
underripe  fruit,  wash  by  running  water  over  them, 
cap,  crush,  and  add  I  pint  of  water  and  boil  1 5 
minutes.  Press  the  pulp  and  strain  the  juice 
through  a  flannel  bag.  Determine  the  correct 
amount  of  sugar  to  be  added  by  the  use  of  the 
alcohol  test.  Bring  the  juice  to  a  boil,  add  sugar 
and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Continue  the 
boiling  until  the  jelly  point  is  reached.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  skim.  Pour  into  hot  sterilized 
glasses,  seal,  and  store. 

Raspberry  Jam — Crush  the  berries;  for  each 
quart  of  fruit  use  J/g  to  J4  cupful  water.  Simmer 
until  the  juice  is  extracted;  then  add  two-thirds  to 

1  quart  of  sugar  to  1  quart  of  fruit.  Cook  until 
thick,  stirring  continually  to  prevent  burning. 
Pour  into  sterilized  glasses  or  jars.  (See  general 
directions.) 

All  sweet,  juicy  berries  are  cooked  in  this  man- 
ner. 

Blackberries  and  other  berries  not  very  sweet, 
add   more  sugar  to  taste. 

Peach  Jam — Take  ripe  freestone  peaches  and 
slice  them.  For  each  quart  of  fruit  use  ]/g  to  J4 
cupful  water;  use  as  little  ■water  as  possible.  Sim- 
mer until  tender  and  juice  is  extracted.  To  1  quart 
of  cooked  fruit  add  two-thirds  to  1  quart  sugar, 
more  if  peaches  are  sour.  Cook  mixture  until  thick, 
stirring  continually  to  prevent  burning.  Put  into 
sterilized  glasses  or  jars.      (See  general  directions.) 

The  pits  and  peels  of  the  peaches  may  be  cooked 
with  the  fruit  until  ready  for  the  sugar,  then  strain 
and  add  sugar.  They  add  to  the  jam  and  give  a 
delicious  flavor. 

Peach  Butter — The  poorer  grade  of  peaches  may 
be  used,  as  they  are  to  be  crushed.  Cook  cidjer 
and  sugar  together  until  thick;  allow  1  pint  of  the 
boiled  cider  to  3  quarts  of  peach  pulp  and  cook 
together  very  slowly  until  thick.  A  little  mixed 
ground  spice  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Peach   Pickle — Use    8   pounds   peaches  and  stick 

2  or  3  cloves  in  each  peach.  Add  a  few  sticks  of 
cinnamon  and  cook  until  tender,  then  put  them  on 
platter   to    cool   and    place   in    jars.       Pour   the    cold 


306       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


syrup   over.      Let  stand   24   hours,    then   seal  up. 

This  rule  applies  for  all  kinds  of  fruit  pickles, 
using  more  or  less  sugar,  according  to  the  fruit 
used. 

Cranberry  Conserve — Chop  5  pounds  cranber- 
ries, together  with  2  pounds  raisins.  Boil  the 
rind  of  5  oranges  until  tender,  chop  fine  and  mix 
with  the  cranberry  mixture;  add  10  cupfuls  sugar, 
the  pulp  and  strained  juice  of  the  oranges.  Cook 
slowly  until  about  as  thick  as  marmalade. 

Orange  Marmalade  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — 

Twelve   thin-skinned   oranges,    3    lemons. 

Wash  and  slice  the  fruit  as  thin  as  paper  or 
grind  it  fine.  For  every  quart  of  fruit  add  1  Yl 
quarts  of  water  and  let  the  mixture  stand  over- 
night. In  the  morning  cook  it  slowly  until  tender, 
about  2  to  2  Yl  hours.  Measure  the  cooked  fruit, 
and  add  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Cook  the 
mixture  until  it  jellies  from  a  spoon,  about  30  to 
60  minutes. 


Grapefruit  Marmalade  (Cornell  Reading  Course) 

Wash    grapefruit    thoroughly,    remove    the   seeds, 

and  run  it  through  a  chopper.  Barely  cover  it  with 
water,  and  let  it  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning 
boil  it  for  30  minutes  and  let  it  stand  overnight. 
On  the  third  morning  boil  it  for  30  or  40  minutes, 
or  until  the  white  part  of  the  fruit  is  very  tender. 
Measure  the  fruit,  add  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar, 
and  boil  the  mixture  until  it  jellies  from  the  spoon, 
about  30  to  60  minutes.  Pour  the  marmalade  into 
hot  sterilized  glasses  or  small  jars  and  cover  it 
with  paraffin. 

Such  extended  preparation  previous  to  cooking 
the  fruit  with  sugar  is  given  in  order  to  soften  the 
white  of  the  fruit  and  extract  from  it  the  jelly- 
making  substance. 

Grape  Conserve  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — 
Mix  3  pounds  seeded  grapes,  3  pounds  sugar 
and  I  pound  English  walnuts  broken  into  small 
pieces.  Cook  them  together  as  for  jam.  The 
juice  of  1  orange  and  the  peel  of  Yl  orange  cut 
in   small   pieces   may  be   added    for  variation. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CLASS  31— CANNING  AND  PRESERVING  307 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


308       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


DRYING  FRUITS   AND   VEGETABLES   IN   THE     HOME 

(From  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  841,  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture) 

"CONDITIONING"  DRIED  PRODUCTS 

RECIPES 

It  will  be  found  advisable  to  "condition"  practically  all  dried  vegetables  and 
fruits.  This  is  best  done  in  a  small  way  by  placing  the  material  in  boxes  and  pour- 
ing it  from  one  box  into  another  once  a  day  for  three  or  four  days,  so  as  to  mix  it 
thoroughly  and  give  to  the  whole  mass  an  even  degree  of  moisture.  If  the  material 
is  found  to  be  too  moist,  it  should  be  returned  to  the  drying  trays  for  a  short  drying. 


Many  of  the  products  for  which  directions  are 
given  here  may  be  dried  either  without  or  with 
preliminary  blanching.  In  such  cases  both  meth- 
ods are  described.  Alternate  methods  are  desig- 
nated by  letters. 

RECIPES 

Sweet  Corn — Only  very  young  and  tender  corn 
should  be  used  for  drying,  and  it  should  be  pre- 
pared at  once  after  gathering. 

(a)  Cook  in  boiling  water  2  to  5  minutes,  long 
enough  to  set  the  milk.  Cut  the  kernels  from  the 
cob  with  a  sharp  knife,  taking  care  not  to  cut  off 
pieces  of  the  cob.  Spread  thinly  on  trays,  and 
place  in  position  to  dry.  Stir  occasionally  until 
dry. 

(b)  Boil  or  steam  on  the  cob  8  to  1 0  minutes 
to  set  the  milk.  To  improve  flavor  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water  may  be  used.  Drain 
well  and  cut  corn  from  cob,  using  a  very  sharp 
and  flexible  knife.  Cut  grains  fine,  only  half-way 
down  to  the  cob,  and  scrape  out  the  remainder  of 
grain,  being  careful  not  to  scrape  off  any  of  the 
chaff  next  to  the  cob.  Dry  from  3  to  4  hours 
at  I  1 0°  to  115°  F.  When  field  corn  is  used,  good, 
plump  roasting-ear  stage  is  the  proper  degree  of 
ripeness.  A  pound  of  dried  corn  per  dozen  ears 
is  an  average  yield. 

(c)  The  corn  may  be  dried  in  the  sun.  Dry  in 
oven  1 0  to  15  minutes  and  finish  drying  in  the 
sun.  Sun-drying,  of  course,  is  not  satisfactory  in 
moist  weather. 

Pack  in  cartons  or  boxes  for  a  few  days  to 
"condition." 

String  or  Snap  Beans — All  varieties  of  string 
beans  can  be  dried,  but  only  beans  in  ideal  condi- 
tion for  table  use  should  be  selected  for  this  pur- 
pose. 

(a)  Wash,  remove  stem,  tip,  and  "strings."  Cut 
or  break  the  beans  into  pieces  Yz  to  1  inch  long, 
and  place  on  trays  and  dry.  They  also  can  be  run 
through  the  slicer  and  then  dried  quickly. 

(b)  Prepare  as  directed  above,  but  instead  of 
cutting  the  beans,  thread  them  on  coarse,  strong 
thread,  making  long  "necklaces"  of  them,  and  hang 
them  above  the  stove  or  out  of  doors  until  dry. 
An  old-fashioned  recipe  calls  for  boiling  the  pods 
until  nearly  cooked  through  before  drying. 


(c)  Wash  and  string  beans  carefully.  The  very 
young  and  tender  beans  can  be  dried  whole.  Those 
that  are  full  grown  should  be  cut  in  one-fourth  to 
1  inch  lengths  with  vegetable  slicer  or  a  sharp 
knife.  It  is  beter  to  cut  beans  than  to  snap  them. 
They  are  then  put  in  a  bag  of  cheesecloth  or  in  a 
wire  basket  and  blanched  in  boiling  water  for  6  to 
I  0  minutes,  depending  on  the  maturity  of  the  bean. 
One-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  may  be  added  to  each 
gallon  of  boiling  water  to  help  set  the  green  color 
in  the  beans.  Remove  surface  moisture  by  placing 
between  two  towels  or  by  exposing  to  the  sun  and 
air  for  a  short  time.  Dry  young  string  beans  2 
hours,  more  matured  beans  3  hours.  Begin  drying 
at  temperature  of  110°  F.  and  raise  temperature 
gradually  to    145°   F. 

Wax  beans  are  dried  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
green  string  beans.      "Condition"   as  described. 

Lima  Beans — Lima  beans  can  be  shelled  from 
the  pod  and  dried.  If  gathered  before  maturity 
when  young  and  tender,  wash  and  blanch  from  5 
to  1 0  minutes.  Length  of  time  for  blanching  de- 
pends upon  size  and  maturity  of  beans.  Remove 
surface  moisture  and  dry  from  3  to  3  J/2  hours  at 
same  temperature  as  string  beans. 

Dry  Shelled  Beans  (Important  in  the  South) — 
Beans  of  different  kinds,  after  maturing  and  drying 
on  the  vines,  can  be  treated  as  follows:  Shell, 
wash,  spread  in  thin  layers  on  the  trays  of  the 
dryer,  and  heat  10  minutes,  beginning  at  160°  F. 
and  gradually  raising  the  temperature  to  1 80°  F. 
This  high  temperature  is  for  the  purpose  of  de- 
stroying all  insect  eggs  that  may  be  on  the  beans. 
Cowpeas  or  any  field  pea  can  be  treated  in  the 
same  way.  Cool  and  store  carefully.  It  might  be 
added  that  the  heating  of  the  bean  or  pea  destroys 
its  vitality.  When  so  treated  it  cannot  be  used  for 
seed. 

Okra — (a)  Small,  tender  pods  sometimes  are 
strung  on  a  stout  thread  and  hung  over  the  stove 
to  dry.  If  dried  in  that  manner,  heat  in  oven  be- 
fore storing  on  trays. 

(b)  Wash,  blanch  3  minutes  in  boiling  soda 
water,  and  dry  2  to  3  hours  at  1  1 0°  to  1 40°  F. 
Use  J/7  teaspoonful  soda  to  a  gallon  of  water.     Dry 


309 


3 1 0        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2^COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


young   and   small   tender  pods  whole.      Older  pods 
should  be  cut  in   '/4-inch  slices. 

Peppers — (a)  Peppers  may  be  dried  by  splitting 
on  one  side,  removing  seed,  drying  in  the  air,  and 
finishing  the  drying  in  the  drier  at  1  40°  F.  A  more 
satisfactory  method  is  to  place  peppers  in  biscuit 
pan  in  oven  and  heat  until  skin  blisters,  or  to 
steam  peppers  until  skin  softens,  peel,  split  in  half, 
take  out  seed,  and  dry  at  1  1  0°  to  1  40°  F.  In  dry- 
ing thick-fleshed  peppers  like  the  pimento,  do  not 
increase  heat  too  quickly,  but  dry  slowly  and 
evenly. 

(b)  Small  varieties  of  red  peppers  may  be 
spread  in  the  sun  until  wilted  and  the  drying  fin- 
ished in  the  dryer,  or  they  may  be  dried  entirely 
in  the  sun. 

(c)  Peppers  often  are  dried  whole.  If  they  are 
large  they  can  be  strung  on  stout  thread;  if  small, 
the  whole  plant  can  be  hung  up  to  dry. 

Peas — (a)    Shell   and   spread   on   trays   and   dry. 

(b)  Shell  full-grown  peas  with  nonedible  pod, 
blanch  the  peas  from  3  to  5  minutes,  remove  sur- 
plus moisture,  spread  in  single  layer  on  trays,  and 
dry  from  3  to  3J/2  hours.  Begin  drying  at  110° 
F.,  raising  temperature  very  slowly  in  about  1  Yl 
hours  to  145°  F.  Continue  drying  1  J/2  or  2  hours 
at    1  45°  F. 

(c)  Shell  full-grown  peas,  passing  through  a 
meat  grinder,  spread  on  trays,  and  dry.  Whole 
peas  take  longer  to  dry,  but  when  cooked 
they  resemble  fresh  peas.  The  ground  peas  dry 
more  quickly,  but  make  a  product  which  can  be 
used  successfully  only  in  the  preparation  of  soup 
or  puree.  v 

(d)  When  drying  the  very  young  and  tender 
sugar  peas,  use  the  pod  also.  Wash  and  cut  in  Y\~ 
inch  pieces.  Blanch  in  boiling  water  6  minutes. 
Remove  surplus  moisture  and  dry  the  same  length 
of  time  and  at  the  same  temperature  as  string  beans. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  use  soda  when  blanching 
peas. 

Pack   away   and    "condition." 

GARDEN  BEETS,  ONIONS,  LEEKS,  CARROTS, 
TURNIPS,  PARSNIPS,  CABBAGE 

Beets — (a)  Select  young,  quickly  grown,  tender 
beets.  Wash,  peel,  slice  about  '/g  inch  thick,  and 
dry. 

(b)  Boil  the  whole  beets  with  skin  until  a  little 
more  than  three-fourths  done.  Dip  in  cold  water, 
peel,  and  slice  into  J/g  or  ]4-inch  slices.  Dry  2  Yl 
to  3   hours  at    110°  to    150°  F. 

Turnips — Turnips  should  be  treated  in  the  same 
way  as  beets. 

Carrots — Varieties  having  a  large,  woody  core 
should  be  avoided. 

(a)  Wash,  peel,  slice  lengthwise  into  pieces 
about  J/g   inch  thick,  and  dry. 

(b)  Clean,  scrape,  or  pare,  and  slice  into  Y&m 
inch    slices.       Blanch     6     minutes,     remove     surface 


moisture,  and  dry  2)^  to  3  hours.  Begin  drying 
at  110°  F.,  and  raise  temperature  gradually  to 
150°  F. 

Parsnips,  kohlrabi,  celeriac,  and  salsify  are  dried 
by  the   same  methods. 

Onions — (a)  Select  well-matured  onions  and  re- 
move the  outside  papery  covering.  Cut  off  tops  and 
roots.  Slice  into  Vg-inch  pieces  and  dry  quickly. 
Store  in  a  light-proof  container  to  avoid  discolora- 
tion. 

(b)  Wash,  peel,  and  slice  onions  into  J/g  to  14" 
inch  slices.  To  avoid  any  unpleasantness,  peel  and 
slice  while  holding  under  water  Blanch  in  boiling 
water  5  minutes.  Remove  surface  moisture  and 
dry  2  Yl  to  3  hours,  beginning  at  110°  F.  and 
raising   temperature    gradually   to    140°  F. 

Leeks  are  handled  in  a  similar  manner,  cut  into 
J/^-inch  strips  and  dried. 

Cabbage — (a)  Select  well-developed  heads  of 
cabbage  and  remove  all  outside  leaves.  Split  the 
cabbage,  remove  the  hard,  ■woody  core,  slice  the 
remainder  of  the  head  with  a  kraut  cutter  or  slicer, 
and  dry. 

(b)  Shred  or  cut  into  strips  a  few  inches  long. 
Blanch  1 0  minutes,  drain,  remove  surface  moisture, 
and  dry  3  hours  at    1  1  0°  to    I  45°  F. 

All    these   products    should    be    "conditioned." 

Spinach  and  Parsley — Spinach  that  is  in  prime 
condition  for  greens  should  be  prepared  by  care- 
fully washing  and  removing  the  leaves  from  the 
roots.  Spread  the  leaves  on  trays  to  dry  thor- 
oughly.      Slicing    will    greatly    facilitate    drying. 

Parsley  should  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as 
spinach. 

BEET  TOPS,  SWISS  CHARD,  CELERY,  AND 
RHUBARB 
Beet  Tops — Tops  of  young  beets  in  suitable  con- 
dition for  greens  should  be  selected  and  washed 
carefully.  Both  the  leafstalk  and  the  blade  should 
be  cut  into  sections  about  J4  inch  long,  spread  on 
screens,  and  dried. 

Swiss  Chard  and  Celery  should  be  prepared  in 
the  same  way  as  beet  tops.  Celery  also  may  be 
prepared  in  the  same  way  as  pumpkins  and  summer 
squash. 

Rhubarb Choose   young  and   succulent   growth. 

Prepare  as  for  stewing,  by  skinning  the  leafstalks 
and  cutting  into  pieces  about  Y\  inch  to  Yl  inch 
in  length.      Do  not  use  the  blade  of  the  leaf. 

All  these  products   should   be   "conditioned." 

POTATOES 

Irish  Potatoes — Select  good,  sound,  well-ma- 
tured potatoes. 

(a)  Wash  and  boil  or  steam  until  nearly  done. 
Peel  and  pass  through  a  meat  grinder  or 
a  potato  ricer.  Collect  the  shreds  in  layers  on  a 
tray  and  dry  until  brittle.  If  toasted  slightly  in  an 
oven  when  dry  the   flavor  is  improved  somewhat. 


CLASS  31— DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  IN  THE  HOME 


311 


(b)  Boil  or  steam  until  nearly  done,  peel  as 
above,  cut  into  J/J-inch  slices,  spread  on  trays,  and 
dry  until  brittle. 

Peeling  may  be  omitted,  but  the  product  will  be 
very  much  inferior  in  flavor. 

Sweet   Potatoes — Select    sound,    mature    roots. 

(a)  Wash,  boil  until  nearly  done,  peel,  and  run 
through  the  meat  chopper.  Spread  on  trays  and 
dry  until  brittle. 

(b)  Treat  as  above,  but  slice  instead  of  running 
through   the   meat   chopper. 

(c)  Wash,  peel,  slice,  spread  on  trays,  and  dry. 
A  somewhat  brighter  product  will  result  if  the 
sliced  potato  is  dipped  in  salt  water  just  before 
drying. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Cauliflower — Clean,  divide  in  small  bunches, 
blanch  6  minutes,  and  dry  2  to  3  hours  at  110° 
to  1 45°  F.  Cauliflower  will  turn  very  dark  when 
drying,  but  will  regain  part  of  the  color  in  soaking 
and  cooking.  Dried  cauliflower  is  especially  good 
in  soups  and  omelets. 

Brussels  Sprouts  may  be  handled  in  a  similar 
way,  but  add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  the  blanching 
water. 

Pumpkins  and  Squash (a)  Select  sound,  well- 
grown  specimens.  Cut  into  strips;  peel  these;  re- 
move all  seeds  and  the  soft  part  surrounding  them. 
Cut  strips  into  smaller  bits  not  over  J4  inch  thick 
and  2   inches  long,  and  dry. 

(b)  Pare  and  cut  into  about  j/2-inch  strips  and 
blanch  3  minutes.  Remove  surface  moisture  and 
dry  slowly  from  3  to  4  hours,  raising  temperature 
from    1  1  0°  to    1  40°  F. 

Pack  and   "condition." 

Soup  Mixtures — Each  vegetable  used  in  the  soup 
mixture  is  prepared  and  dried  separately.  They 
are  put  together  in  proportions  desired,  the  pre- 
ferred flavoring  vegetables  predominating.  A  com- 
bination of  several  vegetables  makes  the  most  de- 
sirable soup  mixture.  Those  most  often  used  are 
carrots,  cabbage,  onions,  celery,  potatoes,  and  okra. 

Herbs — Celery  tops,  parsley,  mint,  sage,  and 
herbs  of  all  kinds  need  not  be  blanched,  but  should 
be  washed  well  and  dried  in  the  sun  or  in  the 
dryer.  These  are  good  for  flavoring  soups,  purees, 
gravies,   omelets,    etc. 

Apples,  Pears  and  Quinces — Early  varieties  and 
sweet  apples  are  not  well  adapted  to  drying.  Win- 
ter apples  should  be   used  for  this  purpose. 

(a)  Peel,  core,  trim  and  slice  Y",  inch  thick.  Dip 
in  weak  salt  solution  containing  8  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt  to  1  gallon  of  water.  Spread  on  trays  and 
dry.  It  is  only  necessary  to  dry  apples  long  enough 
for  them  to  become  tough  and  somewhat  leathery. 

(b)  Pare,  core,  and  cut  into  eighths,  or  core 
and  slice  in  rings,  using  fruit  or  vegetable  slicer. 
As  apples  discolor  quickly,  do  not  let  them  stand 
long   before   drying.       To   prevent   discoloration,    as 


the  fruit  is  prepared  it  may  be  dipped  for  I  min- 
ute in  a  cold  salt  bath,  using  1  ounce  of  salt  to  1 
gallon  of  water.  Remove  surplus  moisture  and 
dry  at  1  1  0°  to  150°  F.,  raising  temperature  grad- 
ually. Dry  from  4  to  6  hours,  and  longer  if  neces- 
sary. 

Pears  are  dried  in  the  same  way  as  apples.  They 
may  be  steamed    10   minutes   before   drying. 

Quices  are  treated  in  the  same  way  as  pears. 

Pack  and   "condition." 

Raspberries (a)      Sort     out     imperfect     berries, 

spread  the  selected  berries  on  trays,  and  dry.  Do 
not  dry  so  long  that  they  become  hard  enough  to 
rattle.  The  drying  should  be  stopped  as  soon  as 
the  berries   fail  to  stain   the   hand   when   pressed. 

(b)  Pick  leaves  and  stems  from  fruits  and  spread 
on  trays.  Handle  carefully  and  do  not  bruise. 
Spread  in  thin  layer  on  tray  and  dry  slowly.  Raise 
temperature  gradually  from  110°  to  125°  F.  in 
about  2  hours.  Do  not  raise  temperature  higher 
than  130°  F.  until  a  considerable  portion  of  the 
moisture  has  evaporated,  as  otherwise  expansion 
will  occur  and  juice  will  be  lost  by  dripping.  This 
is  accompanied  by  loss  of  flavor  and  color.  Finish 
drying  berries  at  1 40°  F.  for  2  to  3  hours.  It  is 
necessary   to    dry   berries    from    4    to    5    hours. 

Blackberries,  dewberries,  and  huckleberries  can 
be  dried  in  the  same  way  as   raspberries. 

Pack   and    "condition." 

Peaches Peaches    usually    are     dried     unpeeled, 

but   they  will   be   better   if  peeled   before   drying. 

(a)  Remove  the  stones,  cut  the  fruit  into  halves, 
or  preferably  into  smaller  pieces,  and  spread  on 
trays  to  dry. 

(b)  Cut  in  halves,  pit,  lay  in  trays  pit  side  up, 
and  dry  at  same  temperature  and  for  same  length 
of  time  as  apples. 

Peaches  should  be  packed  carefully  and  "condi- 
tioned." 

Plums  and  Apricots — (a)  Plums  are  not  peeled, 
but  the  pits  are  removed,  the  fruit  being  cut  into 
halves  and  dried  in  the  same  way  as  peaches. 

(b)  Select  medium-ripe  plums,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  cover  the  vessel  and  let  stand  20  min- 
utes. Small,  thin-fleshed  varieties  are  not  suitable 
for  drying.  Drain,  remove  surface  moisture,  and 
dry  from  4  to  6  hours,  gradually  raising  temper- 
ature from    1  10°  to    150°  F. 

Apricots  are  handled  in  the  same  way  as  plums. 

Pack  and   "condition." 

Cherries (a)     Remove    stems    of    cherries    and, 

if  the  fruit  is  large,  the  pits  also.  Spread  out  on 
trays  to  dry.  Small,  black  cherries  can  be  dried 
when   containing  the  stones. 

(b)  Wash,  remove  surface  moisture,  and  spread 
cherries,  unseeded,  in  thin  layer  on  trays.  If  cher- 
ries are  seeded  there  will  be  a  los3  of  juice.  Dry 
from  2  to  4  hours  at  1  1  0°  to  150°  F.  Raise  tem- 
perature  gradually. 

Pack  and   "condition." 


3 1 2        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


PRECAUTIONS  AGAINST  INSECTS 
ATTACKING   DRIED   PRODUCTS 

From  Farmer's  Bulletin  841,   U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture 

Two  kinds  of  moths  stand  out  prominently  among  insects  that  attack  dried 
fruits  and  vegetables.  They  are  much  more  likely  to  get  into  the  fruit  during  the 
process  of  drying  than  to  find  their  way  through  boxes  into  the  products  stored 
inside  them.     This  applies  particularly  to  drying  in  the  sun. 

A  small  moth  called  the  Indian-meal  moth  is  the  most  destructive  insect  that  at- 
tacks such  products.  It  is  about  three-eights  of  an  inch  long  and  has  a  cloaked  appearance, 
one  third  gray  and  the  rest  copper  brown.  The  fig  moth  is  about  the  same  size  but  dark 
neutral  gray.  A  minute  flattened  chocolate-brown  beetle  usually  accompanies  these  moths 
and  does  considerable  damage.  Both  of  the  moths  deposit  their  eggs  on  fruit  when  it  is  on 
the  drying  racks — generally  at  dusk  or  after  dark,  as  they  are  not  fond  of  daylight.  It 
takes  from  three  to  ten  days  for  the  eggs  to  hatch  into  whitish  or  pinkish  grublike  cater- 
pillars and  from  five  to  ten  weeks  from  the  laying  of  the  eggs  till  the  appearance  of  the  moths 
to  lay  another  lot  of  eggs;  and  since  a  number  of  "broods"  or  generations  are  produced 
yearly,  if  a  few  of  these  moth  eggs  are  stored  away  on  dried  fruits  or  vegetables,  hundreds 
of  caterpillars  are  produced  and  many  pounds  of  valuable  material  may  be  destroyed  during 
the  course  of  the  winter  if  it  is  stored  in  a  warm  room.  Warm,  dark  bins  or  dried  fruit  in 
sacks  offer  especially  favorable  places  for  their  development.  It  is  evident  that  the  larger 
the  amount  of  material  in  a  package,  the  greater  the  chance  of  a  few  eggs  doing  a  great 
deal  of  damage.  Small  cartons  or  containers  have  the  advantage  of  confining  the  injury 
from  these  moths  to  small  quantities  of  material,  if  the  containers  are  closed  tightly. 

In  sun  drying,  if  the  drying  racks  are  screened  early  in  the  evening  and  at  night,  the 
cheesecloth  or  fly-screen  battened  down,  and  the  dried  fruits  and  vegetables  stored  in  tight 
paper  sacks  in  a  cool  place,  no  danger  ordinarily  need  be  feared  from  these  insects.  As 
an  additional  precaution,  the  dried  product,  before  being  stored,  may  be  heated  to  140°  F. 
long  enough  to  allow  the  heat  to  penetrate  throughout.  This  will  sterilize  it  if  already  in- 
fected. 

In  drying  by  artificial  heat,  the  process  itself  ordinarily  will  sterilize  the  product. 
But  after  drying  it  should  be  stored  promptly,  to  prevent  infestation. 

PACKING    AND    STORING  ucts     when     protected     from     insects     and     rodents. 

Although   not   necessary,    tin   cans   or   glass   jars  The    dried    fruit    or    vegetables    must   be    protected 

__l,_   „     j  »ir  tj-j£  from  the  outside  moisture  and  will  keep  best  in  a 

make   good    receptacles   tor   storage   of  dried   fruits  _.  , 

.  cool,  dry,  well-ventilated  place.      These  conditions, 

or  vegetables.     Pasteboard  boxes  with  tight  covers,  .  j-a-      ,.    .        ■  .    .  ..  .        ., 

°  however,   are  difficult  to  obtain  in  the  more  humid 

stout  paper  bags,  and  patented  paraffin  paper  car-  regions,  and  there  moisture-tight  containers  should 

tons  also   afford   ample   protection   for   dried   prod-  be  used. 


313 


THE  KEEPING  OF  VEGETABLES,    FRUITS  AND  MEATS 

(From  Bulletin  No.   375,  by  Mrs.  Mary  Hinman  Abel,   published  by  the  U.   S.   Department 

of  Agriculture) 

CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 

The  following  hints  regarding  the  keeping  of  different  kinds  of  foods  may- 
be found  useful: 


Potatoes  are  kept  without  difficulty  in  a  cool, 
dry  and  dark  place.  Sprouts  should  not  be  allowed 
to   grow  in  the  spring. 

Such  roots  as  carrots,  parsnips  and  turnips  re- 
main plump  and  fresh  if  placed  in  earth  or  sand 
filled  boxes  on  the  cellar  floor. 

Sweet  Potatoes  may  be  kept  until  January  if 
cleaned,  dried,  and  packed  in  chaff  so  that  they  will 
not  touch  each  other. 

Pumpkins  and  Squash  must  be  thoroughly  ripe 
and  mature  to  keep  well.  They  should  be  dried 
from  time  to  time  with  a  cloth  and  kept  not  on  the 
cellar  floor  but  on  a  shelf  and  well  separated  from 
each  other. 


Cabbages  are  to  be  placed  in  barrels,  with  the 
roots  uppermost. 

Celery  should  be  neither  trimmed  or  washed, 
but  packed,  heads  up,  in  long,  deep  boxes,  which 
should  then  be  filled  with  dry  earth. 

Tomatoes  may  be  kept  until  January,  if  gathered 
just  before  frost,  wiped  dry,  and  placed  on  straw- 
covered  racks  in  the  cellar.  They  should  be  firm 
and  well-grown  specimens,  not  yet  beginning  to 
turn.  As  they  ripen  they  may  be  taken  out  for 
table  use,  and  any  soft  or  decaying  ones  must  be 
removed. 

Apples,  if  for  use  during  the  autumn,  may  be 
stored  in  barrels  without  further  precaution  than 
to  look  them  over  now  and  then  to  remove  decay- 
ing ones;  but  if  they  are  to  be  kept  till  late  winter 
or  spring  they  must  be  of  a  variety  known  to  keep 
well  and  they  must  be  hand-picked  and  without 
blemish  or  bruise.  They  should  be  wiped  dry  and 
placed  with  little  crowding  on  shelves  in  the  cellar. 
As  a  further  precaution  they  may  be  wrapped  sep- 
arately in  soft  paper. 

Pears  may  be  kept  for  a  limited  time  in  the 
same  way,  or  packed  in  sawdust  or  chaff,  which 
absorbs  the  moisture  which  might  otherwise  favor 
molding. 

Oranges  and  Lemons  are  kept  in  the  same  way. 
Wrapping  in  soft  paper  is  here  essential,  as  the  un- 

MEATS 


covered  skins,  if  bruised,  offer  good  feeding  ground 
for  mold.  Oranges  may  be  kept  for  a  long  time 
in  good  condition  if  stored  where  it  is  very  cold 
but  where  freezing  is  not  possible.  Lemons  and 
limes  are  often  kept  in  brine,  an  old-fashioned 
household  method. 

Cranberries,  after  careful  looking  over  to  remove 
soft  ones,  are  placed  in  a  crock  or  firkin  and 
covered  with  water.  A  plate  or  round  board 
placed  on  top  and  weighted  serves  to  keep  the  ber- 
ries under  water.  The  water  should  be  changed 
once  a  month. 

In  winter,  large  pieces  of  fresh  meat  may  be  pur- 
chased and  hung  in  the  cellar.  Thin  pieces,  as 
mutton  chops,  are  sometimes  dipped  in  mutton  suet, 
which  keeps  the  surface  from  drying  and  is  easily 
scraped  off  before  cooking. 


Smoked  Ham,  Tongue,  Beef  and  Fish  are  best 
put  in  linen  bags  and  hung  in  the  cellar. 

Salt  Pork  or  Corned  Beef  should  be  kept  in  brine 
in  suitable  jars,  kegs  or  casks,  and  should  be 
weighted  so  as  to  remain  well  covered.  A  plate  or 
board  weighted  is  a  satisfactory  device. 

Eggs  may  be  packed  for  winter  use  in  limewater 
or  in  water-glass  solution.  Many  housekeepers 
have  good  success  packing  them  in  bran,  in  oats, 
or  in  dry  salt,  but  the  preference  is  to  be  given  to 
I  0  %  solution  of  water-glass.  Exclusion  of  the  air 
with  its  accompanying  micro-organisms  and  the 
prevention  of  drying  out  are  what  is  sought  in  all 
cases.  Packed  eggs  are  not  equal  to  fresh  eggs 
in  flavor,  but  when  they  are  well  packed  are  of 
fairly  good  quality  and  perfectly  wholesome. 

Washing  Eggs — The  ordinary  way  to  break  an 
egg  is  to  hit  it  against  another  egg  or  over  the 
edge  of  the  mixing  bowl  and  let  the  contents  stream 
over  the  side  of  the  shell  without  considering 
whether  the  latter  is  clean  or  not.  Even  if  there 
is  no  visible  dirt,  the  shell  may  not  be  as  clean  as 
it  seems,  for  it  may  have  come  from  a  dirty  nest 
or  have  been  untidily  handled.  Eggs  should  always 
be  washed  before  breaking. 


When  meat  is  received  the  skin  side  should  be 
rubbed  with  a  cloth  wet  in  hot  water  and  then 
carefully  scraped  with  a  knife.  The  thin  outer 
skin  of  lamb  should  be  entirely  removed  in  order 
to  avoid  the  disagreeable  taste  due  to  any  contact 
with    the    hair    of    the    animal.       The    cut    surface 


should  also  be  carefully  scraped,  and  to  prevent 
drying,  be  covered  with  paraffin  paper  or  rubbed 
with  salad  oil,  or  in  case  the  meat  is  to  be  kept  for 
some  time,  entirely  covered  with  melted  suet.  The 
meat  should  then  be  put  on  a  plate  in  the  ice-box. 


314 


CLASS  31— KEEPING  VEGETABLES,  FRUITS  AND  MEATS 


315 


POULTRY 


The  skin  of  poultry  is  frequently  very  dirty  when 
brought  from  market,  and  fowls  should  be  not  only 
washed,  but  scrubbed  with  a  soft  brush  and  warm 
water  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  has 
been  dissolved.  Such  treatment  will  prevent  the 
disagreeable  "henny"  taste  often  noticeable  in 
cooked  poultry. 

Poultry  should  be  drawn  immediately,  and  un- 
less it  is  known  to  have  been  killed  very  recently, 
it  should  be  thoroughly  washed  on  the  inside  and 
used  soon.  Poultry  that  is  drawn  directly  after 
killing,    on   the    contrary,    keeps   better   if   it   is    not 


washed  until  used.  It  should  be  hung  in  a  cold 
place  or  put  in  the  ice-box  with  a  piece  of  char- 
coal inside  the  body. 

Cold-storage  chickens  should  under  no  circum- 
stances remain  in  a  warm  room  before  cooking. 
Such  poultry  must  be  kept  at  a  low  temperature 
and  cooked  as  soon  as  possible.  All  cold-storage 
food,  when  brought  into  a  warm  temperature, 
spoils  quickly,  and  without  doubt  many  cases  of 
illness  traced  to  the  use  of  such  food  are  really  due 
to  careless  handling  and  delay  in  cooking. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


3 1 6        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


^j  1 1  a  ■ i  a  i 1 1  m.9  ■  i  ■  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  ii  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  i  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  ■  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  e  1 1 1  ■  i  m  ■  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  a  1 1  a  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  f^i 


MENUS 


|  I  CLASS  32  I  | 

riiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiR 
MEALS   FOR    SPECIAL    OCCASIONS 

(Iowa   State   College   Bulletin) 

Menus  of  foods  that  can  be  prepared  before  serving  time.      In  this  way  the  hostess  is 
relieved  of  care  at  the  last  moment. 

SERVING  OF  MEALS 
Menu — Creole  Chicken  in  Chafing  Dish,  Luncheon  Rolls,  Pickled  Peaches,  Rice  Cro- 
quettes with  Raisins,  Head  Lettuce,  Horse  Radish  Sandwiches,  Marshmallow  Pudding,  Cof- 
fee, Mints. 

Bread   cut  and  wrapped. 
Sandwich   filling  made. 
Rolls   baked. 

Chicken  ingredients  prepared. 
Rice  croquette  mixture  combined  and  rolled 
ready  to  fry. 
Afternoon    Preparations — Day    of    Party 
Set   table. 

Combine      chicken     ingredients      (place     in 
chafing   dish) . 
Fill  sandwiches   (last). 

Get   necessary   serving  material   in   order. 
Measure   coffee. 

USE  OF  SERVING  TABLE 
Preparation  Before  Guests  are  Seated 
Place  food  for  first  course  on  the  table. 
Place   food  for   second   course  on   one   shelf 
of  serving  table. 

Place  food  for  third  course  on  one  shelf  of 
serving  table. 

Serving  From  Serving  Table 
Remove   soiled    dishes   from    first    course    to 
kitchen. 

Serve   second   course   from   serving  table. 
Remove   soiled  dishes  to   serving  table. 
Serve   third    course   from    serving   table. 


STEPS  IN  PREPARATION 

3. 

(No  Help) 

4. 

Preparation  Several  Days  Before 

5. 

If  oil  lamps  are  used: 

6. 

Clean  chimneys. 

7. 

New  Wicks. 

Gas  lamps: 

New    mantles. 

1. 

Clean   silver. 

2. 

Iron  napkins  and  table  cloths. 

Iron  towels    (plenty  of  them). 

3. 

Clean  tables  and  shelves  ready  for  serving. 

4. 

Get  serving  trays  ready. 

5. 

Clean    refrigerator    and    make    room    for    salad 

materials. 

List  supplies. 

1. 

Write  place   cards. 

2. 

Arrange    seating    of    guests. 

Preparation  for  Preceding  Day 

3. 

1.      Cook  chicken. 

2.      Set  rolls. 

3.      Make   salad   dressing. 

1. 

4.      Cook  rice. 

Morning   Preparations — Day  of  Party 

2. 

1.      Salad    combined   and   set   to   harden. 

3. 

2.      Pudding  made  and  set  to  harden. 

4. 

THANKSGIVING  DINNERS 

Clear  Tomato  Soup — Croutons 

Turkey — Crumb  Stuffing 

Potato  Souffle  Glazed  Onions 

Frozen  Cranberries 

Pumpkin  Pie  Coffee 

Assorted   Nuts  Fruits 


CHRISTMAS  DINNERS 

Roast  Goose,  Savory  Stuffing  Gooseberry  Jelly 

Baked   Potatoes  Brussels   Sprouts 

English  Plum  Pudding 
Mints  Coffee 


Fruit  Cocktail 

Turkey — Oyster   Stuffing 

Mashed   Potatoes  Pea    Timbales 

Pineapple  Salad 

Marshmallow   Pudding  Coffee 

Candied  Grape  Fruit 

Hot  Spiced  Grape  Juice 

Roast   Chicken  Celery 

Scalloped  Potatoes  Spinach  Timbales 

Currant  Jelly 

Nesselrode   Pudding  Coffee 


Roast  Pig  with  Blushing  Apples  Cabbage  Relish 

Riced   Potatoes  Creamed  Turnips 

Brown  Steamed  Pudding,  Lemon  Sauce 
Coffee  Orange  Sticks 


Roast  Lamb 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Mexican 
Mince  Tart 


Mint  Jelly 
Carrots  and  Peas 
Salad 

Coffee 


317 


3 1 8        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


FARMERS'  MEETING 

Ham    Sandwich  Beet    Pickle 

Escalloped   Potatoes 

Raisin    and    Nut  Sandwich 

Apple  Pie  Coffee 

Baked    Beans  Brown    Bread    Sandwiches 

Cabbage  Salad 

Cake  Coffee  Apples 

Beef   Loaf  Bread   and    Butter 

Combination    Vegetable    Salad 

Doughnuts        Brown  Bread  Sandwiches        Coffee 

Cheese  Sandwich  Pickled  Peaches 

Egg  and  Nut  Salad  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwich 

Pumpkin    Pie  Coffee 


WOMEN'S  MEETINGS 

Macaroni,   Italian  Style 

Lettuce   Sandwich 

Fruit   Salad  Nut   Bread   Sandwich 

Cocoa 


Cheese  and   Nut   Sandwich 

Potato    Chips  Olives 

Banana    Salad 

Cake  Coffee 

Stuffed   Eggs  Bread   and   Butter  Sandwiches 

Combination  Fruit  Salad 

Cream    Cheese    Sandwich 

Wafers  Cocoa 

Cream  Tomato  Soup  Bread  and  Butter 

Egg  and  Lettuce  Salad 

Cake  Coffee 


Pickles 


PICNIC  LUNCHES 

Savory    Meat    Sandwiches 

Potato  Chips 
Raisin   Salad  Cheese   Wafers 

Cake  Candy  Lemonade 

Fried   Chicken  Bread   and  Butter 

Potato- Vegetable  Salad 

Nut    Bread    Sandwiches  Fruit 


Ham  Sandwich  Potato  and  Pepper  Salad 

Orange   Marmalade   Sandwiches 

Gelatin    Fruit    Pudding  Wafers 

Coffee 
Salmon    Salad  Bread   and   Butter 

Fresh  Tomatoes 
Raisin    Nut    Sandwiches  Coffee 


HIGH  SCHOOL  FUNCTIONS 

Chicken  a   la   King  Savory  Potatoes 

Tomato   Salad  Wafers 

Ice    Cream 


Veal   Loaf  Glazed   Carrots   and   Peas 

Cabbage    and    Pimiento    Salad 
Snow  Pudding  Custard  Sauce 


Fricassee    of    Chicken 
Cranberry  Sauce 


Potato    Chips 
Brick  Ice  Cream 


Creamed  Veal  on  Toast 

Fruit  and   Nut   Salad  Wafer* 

Cake  Pineapple  Lemonade 

Oyster   Stew  Oyster    Crackers 

Celery   Curls  Midget   Pickles 


CHURCH  SUPPERS 

Fricassee   of   Chicken  Celery 

Escalloped  Potatoes  Glazed  Peas  and  Carrots 

Cranberry  Jelly 


Ice  Cream 


Wafers 


Meat    Loaf 

Creamed    Potatoes 
Fruit  Pudding  Cak 

Roast   Ham 


Coffee 

Cabbage  Salad 
String   Beans 

Coffee 


Peach  PicKles 
Delmonico  Potatoes 
Lettuce    and    Celery   Salad 
Apple   Pie  Coffee 


AFTERNOON   REFRESHMENTS 

Cherry  and  Nut  Salad  Cheese  Wafers 

Coffee 


Creamed   Chicken   on  Toast  Squares 

Celery   Salad  Wafers 

Coffee 


Egg  and  Peanut  Salad 
Wafers  Cake 


Pineapple    Salad 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 


Coffee 
Coffee 


Pineapple    Lemonade  Peanut    Drop    Cake 

Currantade  Scottish    Fancies 

Fruit   Punch  Rolled    Wafers 


FIVE  O'CLOCK  TEAS 


Orange    Marmalade   Sandwiches 
Tea 


Nuts 


Cheese  and  Nut  Sandwiches        Preserved  Pineapple 

Sunshine  Cake  Tea 

Nut  Sandwiches  Ginger  Crisps  Lemonade 


Candied   Grape   Fruit   Peel 

Cocoa   with   Marshmallows 

Tiny    Eclairs   Filled   with   Welsh   Rabbit 

Plain   Sandwiches  Fudge 

Black  Tea  with  Lemon 


CLASS  32— MENUS— SPECIAL  OCCASIONS  AND  SEASONS 


319 


SEASONAL  MENUS 

American  housekeepers  are  facing  not  only  very  high  prices  for  all  foods  but  a  de- 
cided shortage  of  some  staple  articles  such  as  white  flour  and  potatoes. 

Very  careful  planning  will  be  necessary  to  feed  a  famliy  properly  on  an  average  in- 
come during  this  period  of  scarcity.  Food  must  be  chosen  with  a  view  to  its  value  in  the 
diet  and  needs  rather  than  wants  must  be  considered,  A  diet  so  limited  tends  to  be  rather 
monotonous  and  special  care  must  be  taken  to  have  the  cooking  and  serving  carefully  done. 

A  garden  is  a  valuable  asset  and  provides  flavor  and  variety  in  the  diet  at  a  rea- 
sonable cost.  If  surplus  vegetables  are  canned  for  winter  use  the  advantage  will  be  still 
greater. 

The  following  menus  have  been  planned  with  a  view  to  using  garden  products  when 
they  are  in  season,  and  it  is  assumed  that  the  housekeeper  has  access  to  a  vegetable  gar- 
den and  some  home  grown  fruit. 


SPRING 


MENU  I. 
Breakfast 

Prunes 
Cornmeal    Mush  Milk 

Dinner 

Fish   Balls  Dandelion   Greens 

Bran  Bread 

Dried  Apricot  Sauce 

Supper 

Fried  Hominy 

Gingerbread  Rhubarb   Sauce 


MENU  II. 

Breakfast 

Stewed    Dried    Apples 

Rice  with   Milk 


Dinner 

Scalloped    Asparagus    and    Eggs  Radishes 

Whole    Wheat    Bread  Green    Onions 

Baked   Indian  Pudding 

Supper 

Cream   of  Pea  Soup 

Corn    Muffins  Canned    Cherries 


MENU  IV. 
Breakfast 

Cornmeal    Pancakes 


Corn    Syrup 


Dinner 

Baked   Rice   and  Eggs 

Greens  Bran    Muffins 

Cornstarch  Pudding  Cherry  Sauce 

Supper 

Baked  Bean  Soup  with  Popcorn 

Rhubarb  Sauce  Plain  Cake 


MENU  V. 
Breakfast 

Orange 


Fried   Mush 


Corn  Syrup 


Dinner 

Beef  Stew   with   Dumplings 
Wilted    Lettuce    with   Onions 
Rhubarb   Baked   with   Raisins 


Rye    Meal 


Supper 
Split  Pea  Soup 
Muffins 


Asparagus 


MENU  III. 
Breakfast 

Orange 
Cream  of  Rye  Milk 

Dinner 

Baked    Beans  Steamed   Brown   Bread 

Dandelion  Salad 

Rhubarb   Pie 


Supper 

Cornmeal  Mush 


Milk 


MENU  VI. 

Breakfast 

Eggs  Scrambled  with   Corn   Meal   Mush 

Dinner 

Stewed   Beans  Radishes  Onions 

Corn     Bread  Canned     Fruit 

Supper 

Cottage    Cheese 

Escalloped   Potatoes 

Rhubarb  Sauce 


320       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


MENU  VII. 
Breakfast 

Stewed   Dried   Peaches 

Grits  Milk 

Dinner 

Boiled   Corned  Beef  Potatoes 

Cubbuge  Onions 

Tapioca   Pudding 

Supper 

Corn  Soup 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 


MENU  IX. 
Breakfast 

Stewed   Dried   Apples 

Fried   Mush  Corn  Syrup 

Dinner 

Split    Pea    Soup 

Potatoes 

Cottage  Cheese  on  Lettuce 

Supper 

Mncaroni  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Graham    Muffins  Custard 


MENU  VIII. 

Breakfast 

Prunes 

Oatmeal  Puncakes  Corn  Syrup 

Dinner 

Hopping    John  Parsnips 

Grnham   Bread  Canned  Fruit 

Supper 

Corn  Beef  Hash  Asparagus 

Corn    Muffins 


MENU  X. 
Breakfast 

Rhubarb  Sauce 
Graham    Bread   Toast  Eggs 

Dinner 

Hamburg  Roast  Tomato  Sauce 

Asparagus 

Rice    Pudding 

Supper 

Corn   Meal   Mush  Milk 


SUMMER 


MENU  I. 
Breakfast 

Banana 

Oatmeal   with   Milk 
Dinner 
Hamburg    Steak 
Sliced   Tomatoes 

Corn   Bread 

Supper 

Macaroni    Salad 

Graham  Gems 

Fresh    Currants 


Lettu 


Lettuce 


MENU  II. 
Breakfast 

Rospberries  Milk  Toast 

Dinner 

New    Potatoes   and   Peas 

Corn    Bread 

Junket    with    Fruit 

Supper 

Dutch   Cheese 

Fried  Tomatoes 

Corn   Bread 


MENU  III. 
Breakfast 

Fresh    Fruit 
Poached   Egg   on   Toost 

Dinner 

Scalloped  Rice  with  Fish 

Cucumbers  Turnips 

Corn  Bread 

Cherries 


Egg  Salad 


Rice 
Meat  Loaf 


Supper 

Green  Onions 
Sliced  Tomatoes 
Graham   Gems 


MENU  IV. 
Breakfast 

Strawberries 

Milk 
Dinner 

Sliced  Tomatoes 
Green  String  Beans 
Corn  Bread 

Supper 

Brown  Bread 

New  Potatoes,    Creamed 

Stewed  Gooseberries 


MENU  V. 
Breakfast 

Prunes 

Creamed   Beef  on  Toast 

Dinner 

Creole  Beans 

Creamed    Cabbage 

Lettuce 

Batter   Fruit   Pudding 

Supper 

Boiled   Eggs 

Steamed   Rice 

Red   Raspberries   and   Currants 


CLASS  32— MENUS-ESPECIAL  OCCASIONS  AND  SEASONS 


321 


MENU  VI. 

Breakfast 

Corn   Muffins   with  Raisins 

Milk 

Dinner 

Fish    Loaf   with   Cucumber   Sauce 

Creamed  New  Potatoes 

Sliced   Tomatoes 

Supper 

Johnny  Cake  and  Milk 


MENU  VII. 
Breakfast 

Oatmeal  with   Raisins 

Milk 

Dinner 

Mexican  Beef  Green  Corn 

Beet  Greens 

Steamed  Brown  Bread 

Supper 

Creamed  Hominy 

Tomatoes 

Cornmeal  Gingerbread 


MENU  VIII. 
Breakfast 

Apple  Sauce 

Graham   Toust 

Dinner 

Peanut  Loaf 

New  Potatoes  and  Peas 

Green  Apple  Pie 


FALL 


MENU  I. 
Breakfast 

Baked  Apple 

Oatmeal  Milk 

Dinner 

Scalloped  Onionn  with  Meat 

Baked    Potatoes 

Grapes  Corn   Bread 

Supper 

Cream    of  Tomato   Soup  Toasted   Bread 

Peach  Shortcake 


MENU   II. 
Breakfast 

Corn    Meal    Mush 

Dinner 

Baked  Squash 

Scalloped    Potatoes 

Brown  Bread 

Custard 

Supper 

Baked   Lima  Beans  with  Cheese 

Corn    Muffins 

Apple   Cobbler 


Milk 


Supper 

Creamed   Eggs 
Corn  Muffins 


Lettuce 


Raspberries 


MENU  IX. 
Breakfast 

Fruit 
Corn  Meal  Mush 

Dinner 

Polenta 

String  Beans 

Graham  Muffins 

Custard 

Supper 

Fried  Apples 

Corn  Muffins 


Milk 


Milk 


MENU  X. 

Breakfast 

Oatmeul   with   Raisins 

Graham  Toast 

Dinner 

Fish  Sulad 

Potatoes 

Green   Corn  Apple  Cobbler 

Supper 

Peunut   Sundwiches 

Sliced    Tomatoes,    Cucumbers    and    Onions 

Cocoa 


MENU  III. 
Breakfast 

Grapes 

Fried  Mush  Corn  Syrup 

Dinner 

Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage 

Steamed  Carrot   Pudding 

Supper 

Potato    Soup    with    Onions 

Apple  Sauce  Gingerbread 


MENU  IV. 
Breakfast 

Buked  Apple 

Hominy  Milk 

Dinner 

Spare    Ribs 

Creamed    Cabbage 

Corn    Bread  Apple   Sauce 

Supper 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Corn  Muffins  Stewed  Pears 


322        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


MENU  V. 
Breakfast 

Apple  Sauce 


Oatmeal 


Milk 


Dinner 

Baked  Beans 

Steamed  Brown  Bread 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Supper 

Cottage  Cheese 

Fried  Onions  and  Apples 

Corn  Muffins 

MENU  VI. 
Breakfast 

Plum  Sauce 

Fried   Hominy 

Dinner 

Beef  Stew  with  Vegetables 

Apple   Cobbler 

Supper 

Creamed  Eggs  on  Graham  Toast 

Ginger   Cookies  Pear  Sauce 


MENU  VIII. 
Breakfast 

Corn  Cakes  Syrup 

Dinner 

Hamburg  Steak 

Mashed   Potatoes 

Creamed  Turnips 

Apple   Tapioca   Pudding 

Supper 

Corn   Mush   and   Milk 


Succotash 


MENU  IX. 
Breakfast 

Graham   Toast 

Poached    Egg 

Dinner 

Brown    E 

Apple  Sauce 

Supper 

Creamed  Beef  on  Toast 

Baked  Apples 

Gingerbread 


MENU  VII. 
Breakfast 

Baked  Apple 

Milk   Toast 

Dinner 

Scalloped    Rice    with    Fish 

Creamed  Carrots 

Baked    Cranberry   Pudding 

Supper 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Stewed  Tomatoes 

Corn    Muffins 


MENU  X. 
Breakfast 

Corn   Cakes 

Dinner 

Creamed  Fish 

Baked  Potatoes 

Baked  Onions 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Supper 


Syrup 


Cor 


Meal  Mush 
Milk 


WINTER 


MENU  I. 
Breakfast 

Buckwheat   Cakes  Syrup 

Dinner 

Meat  Loaf  Dried  Corn 

Cabbage   Hot   Slaw 

Apple  Sauce 

Supper 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Baked   Potatoes 

Cookies  Milk 


MENU  HI. 
Breakfast 

Corn    Cakes  Syrup 

Dinner 

Spare   Ribs 

Kraut  Boiled  Potatoes 

Canned  Fruit  Cookies 

Supper 

Polenta 

Graham  Gems  Baked  Custard 


MENU  II. 

Breakfast 

Corn   Meal   Mush  Milk 

Dinner 

Macaroni  and  Cheese  Loaf 

Corn   Bread 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Supper 

Cold    Sliced    Beef    Loaf Tomato    Sauce 

Creamed  Potatoes 


MENU  IV. 
Breakfast 

Corn  Mush  Milk 

Prunes 

Dinner 

Pea  Loaf  with  Peanuts 

Baked  Potatoes  Cold    Stew 

Suet  Pudding 

Supper 

Brown  Bread  Beans 

Baked  Apples 


CLASS  32— MENUS— SPECIAL  OCCASIONS  AND  SEASONS 


323 


MENU  V. 

Breakfast 

Corn  Cakes  Syrup 

Dinner 

Beef   Stew   with   Vegetables   and   Dumplings 

Corn   Bread 

Apple  Sauce 

Supper 

Stewed   Dried   Corn  Creamed  Turnips 

Muffins  with  Raisins 


MENU  VIII. 

Breakfast 

Corn   Meal   Mush 

Milk 

Dinner 

Swiss   Steak 

Potatoes 

Baked  Onions 

Corn   Bread 

Canned   Fruit 

' 

Supper 

Fish   Cakes  with  Potatoes 
Corn    Muffins 
Apple    Sauce 


MENU  VI. 

Breakfast 

Bananas 

Oatmeal  Milk 

Dinner 

Mutton    Stew,    Barley    and    Vegetables 
Pumpkin   Pie 

Supper 

Hash 

Scalloped    Tomatoes 

Spice  Cakes 


MENU  IX. 
Breakfast 

Prunes 

Fried  Mush  Syrup 

Dinner 

Bean    Loaf  with   Tomato   Sauce 

Creamed   Carrots  Corn  Bread 

Steamed    Molasses    Pudding 

Supper 

Spanish    Rice  Corn    Muffins 

Apple  Butter 


MENU  VII. 


Breakfast 

Buckwheat   Cakes  Syrup 

Dinner 

Cream    of   Split   Pea    Soup 

Rutabagas  Potatoes 

Steamed  Fruit  Pudding 

Supper 

Stewed    Dried    Corn 

Steamed    Brown    Bread 

Baked  Apples 


MENU  X. 
Breakfast 

Corn   Pancakes  Syrup 

Dinner 

Baked  Rice  with  Cheese 

Beets  with  sour  sauce 

Corn  Bread 

Suet  Pudding 

Supper 

Baked  Eggs  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Corn   Muffins 

Stewed  Dried  Peaches 


324      THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  IV— Pt.  2— COOKING  AND  RECIPES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


KEEP  HOUSE  "THE  PAPER  WAY" 

There  is  no  other  way  in  which  there  is  more  labor  saving 
and  economy  than  in  the  use  of  the  many  modern  paper  articles 
that  have  come  into  use  the  past  few  years. 

Paper  Towels,  bought  in  a  roll,  used  once  and  thrown  away,  are  cheaper 
than  the  laundry  cost  alone  of  linen  or  cotton  towels,  are  more  convenient  and 
vastly  more  sanitary,  and  serve  almost  all  purposes  except  for  bath  where  a  hard 
rub  is  desired.  Have  a  roll  in  kitchen  as  well  as  in  bath  room.  Such  towels  can 
be  used  in  many  other  ways  than  drying  the  hands,  such  as  laying  on  the  table 
when  about  to  "bread"  croquettes  or  prepare  fish,  to  dry  meat  or  fish  for  draining, 
or  soaking  up  an  article  fried  in  fat,  making  a  bag  for  lettuce,  covering  cold  meats, 
and  many  other  purposes. 

Paper  Plates,  which  can  be  had  paraffined  or  not,  serve  countless  uses. 
Paper  dishes  are  obtainable.  Paper  receptacles  are  especially  desirable  for  an  ice 
box. 

Paper  Doilies  and  Napkins  are  bright  and  attractive  and  fit  in  better  than 
linens  or  drawn  work  in  many  instances.  They  can  be  had  in  fancy  sets  complete 
to  match. 

Paper  Jelly  Glasses  are  better  in  many  ways  than  glass  ones.  They  are 
fitted  with  tops  which  are  sealed  with  paraffin  and  are  air  tight;  they  are  econom- 
ical and  are  not  subject  to  breakage.  They  make  most  convenient  molds  for  gela- 
tin as  they  can  be  had  in  sizes  almost  as  tiny  as  thimbles,  for  aspics  and  desserts. 

Paper  Filter — For  clearing  soups,  and  various  purposes,  use  a  soft,  thick 
paper,  like  blotting  paper,  which  comes  prepared  for  filter  purposes. 

The  Paper  Dishrag  of  tough  fabric  will  last  two  weeks  and  can  be  burned. 
The  paper  ice-blanket  saves  ice.     The  paper  shelf-roll  saves  lots  of  mental  agony. 

A  large  paper  bag  used  to  line  the  garbage  pail  keeps  the  pail  clean  and  is 
most  sanitary. 


GET  THE  "PAPER  HABIT' 

325 


326 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  V— CONVENIENCES 


THE   SINK 


To  Flush  a  Sink  Trap — (Cornell  Reading 
Course) — Apparatus:  an  old  granite  or  iron  pot, 
a  granite  funnel,  a  stick,  and  one-third  cup  wash- 
ing soda  for  each  sink. 

Put  the  soda  in  the  pot,  add  a  quart  of  water 
for  each  one-third  cup  of  soda.  Bring  it  to  a  boil, 
stirring  to  dissolve  the  soda  but  only  with  a  stick 
that  can  be  thrown  away  afterwards. 

Put  the  funnel  in  the  sink  plug-hole  and  pour 
down  the  quart  of  boiling  soda  water.  Be  careful 
not  to  let  the  soda  get  on  hands  or  drain  boards. 
Leave  the  pot,  stick  and  funnel  in  the  sink. 

See  that  no  water  goes  down  the  sink  for  half 
an  hour. 

Plug  the  sink  and  fill  it  with  water,  hot  if  pos- 
sible. Then  remove  the  plug  and  let  the  rush  of 
water  finish  cleaning  out  the  trap. 

Rinse,  dry  and  put  away  the  funnel,  pot  and 
other  implements  and  leave  everything  tidy  at  the 
sink. 

Every  sink  and  trap  in  the  house  should  have 
this  treatment  at  least  once  a  week. 


To  Clean  a  Sink  Trap — (Cornell  Reading 
Course) — Apparatus:  an  empty  garbage  pail,  an 
old,  small  sieve,  the  trap  brush,  a  monkey  wrench, 
an  old  pot,   and  one-fourth  cup  washing  soda. 

Put  the  soda  into  the  pot,  add  two  quarts  of 
water,   and  boil. 

Set  the  pail  under  the  trap  and  unscrew  the  cap 
at  bottom  of  the  S-trap. 

Remove  any  obstruction  that  may  be  there,  and 
brush  out  both  sides  of  the  trap  pipe  with  the  trap 
brush. 

Pour  the  soda  solution  down  the  sink,  put  on  the 
screw  cap;  put  sieve  in  sink,  empty  the  contents  of 
the  pail  through  it,  then  empty  the  contents  of  the 
sieve  into  the  stove. 

Plug  the  sink,  fill  it  with  water,  and  wash  the 
sieve,  garbage  pail,  and  trap  brush.  Then  let  the 
water  away  in  order  to  flush  the  trap.  While  it  is 
running  away,  examine  the  trap  to  make  sure  that 
it  is  not  leaking  at  the  screw. 


THE 

To  Blacklead  a  Kitchen  Stove — (Cornell  Read- 
ing  Course) Apparatus:   the   blacklead   plate,    the 

turpentine  bottle,  a  dauber,  a  black-lead  brush, 
black  lead,  soap,  an  old  flannel  cloth,  a  pail  of  hot 
water,  and  a  stove  apron. 

Put  on  the  stove  apron,  mix  the  black  lead  with 
enough  water  (warm)  to  make  it  the  consistency 
of  cream,  then  add  a  few  drops  of  turpentine. 

Wet  the  cloth,  rub  it  on  the  cake'  of  soap,  and 
wash  the  stove  all  over  with  it.  Rinse  the  cloth 
and  renew  the  soap  as  often  as  necessary.  The 
object  is  to  get  rid  of  old  blacking  and  grease,  and 
so  to  make  the  surface  easier  to  polish.  Soda 
water  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  soap  if  the  stove 
is  very  greasy  or  has  been  neglected. 

Let  the  stove  dry. 

Commence  at  the  top  of  the  stove  and  with  the 
dauber  apply  a  thin  layer  of  blacking  to  one  sec- 
tion of  the  stove  and  polish  immediately  with  the 
black-lead  brush;  then  proceed  to  blacken  and 
polish  the  next  section.  If  the  blacking  is  allowed 
to  dry  before  the  brushing  the  polish  is  harder  to 
obtain;  therefore,  daub  only  as  much  as  can  be 
polished  before  it  dries  out. 

Fireplace  baskets  and  irons  do  not  require  wash- 
ing very  often. 

Note:  It  is  now  considered  good  practice  to  oil 
kitchen  stoves,  thus  avoiding  the  labor  and  dust  of 
the  blackleading  process. 

To     Oil     a     Kitchen     Stove — (Cornell     Reading 

Course) Apparatus  and  directions  together:  Put  a 

little  separator  oil  on  a  wad  of  cotton  waste  and 
rub  it  on  all  the  iron  parts  of  the  stove". 


STOVE 

Rub  off  with  fresh  waste,  an  old  cloth,  or  some 
crumpled  paper. 

Polish  with  a  dry  flannelette  or  woolen  cloth  un- 
til all  oiliness  is  gone. 

Burn  the  waste,  old  cloth,  or  paper.  Be  Par- 
ticular about  this  because  oily  waste  and  oily  cloths 
are  a  frequent  cause  of  fire  through  spontaneous 
combustion. 

Wash  out  the  polishing  cloth. 

To    Clean    a    Gas    Stove    Thoroughly — (Cornell 

Reading    Course) Apparatus:    a     stove    apron,     a 

couple  of  old  newspapers,  a  wire  sink-brush,  a 
monkey-wrench,  whisk,  dustpan  and  brush,  a  sink 
towel,  several  pieces  of  old  cloth,  soap  and  wash- 
ing soda,   and  the  separator-oil  bottle. 

Put  on  the  apron  and  spread  the  papers  on  the 
table. 

Turn  off  the  gas  at  the  main  supply  pipe  with 
the  monkey  wrench. 

Fill  a  large  dishpan  with  strong,  hot  soapsuds, 
put  into  it  to  soak  the  dripping  pan  and  rack  and 
any  movable  nickel  pieces  of  the  stove. 

Fill  the  sink  half  full  of  strong,  hot  soda  water. 
Put  the  drop  tray  in  the  bottom  to  soak,  and  on 
top  of  it  put  the  top  grates,  doors  and  all  movable 
parts  of  the  stove. 

Brush  out  both  ovens  and  all  parts  of  the  stove 
frame. 

Wet  one  of  the  old  cloths  in  hot  water,  rub  it  on 
the  soap,  and  wash  off  the  stove.  Dry  it,  if  nec- 
essary, with  an  old  cloth.  Then  oil  the  black  parts 
very  lightly  with  the  separator  oil  and  polish  it  off 
thoroughly  with  another  old  dry  cloth. 

Let  the  soda  water  out  of  the  sink,  let  in  fresh 
warm  water,  and   scrub  the  doors  and  other  black 


CONVENIENCES— CLEANING  AND  CARE 


327 


pieces  with  the  wire  brush.  Dry  them  off,  take 
them  to  the  table,  oil  and  polish  them,  and  put  them 
back  on  the  stove. 

Let  the  dirty  water  out  of  the  sink,  transfer  the 
nickel  pieces,  dripping  pan  and  rack  to  the  sink, 
pour  in  the  soapy  water,  scrub  the  pieces  thor- 
oughly, dry  them  with  the  sink  towel,  and  return 
them  to  place. 

Scrub,  rinse,  dry  and  return  to  place  the  drop 
tray. 


Burn  the  old  cloths  and  wash  the  sink  out  care- 
fully. It  is  especially  necessary  to  be  careful  about 
burning  oily  cloths  that  are  not  washed  after  using, 
because  they  have  been  known  to  take  fire  spon- 
taneously and  are  therefore  dangerous  when  tucked 
into  corners  out  of  sight. 

Note:  Be  sure  to  have  the  stove  all  put  together 
before  any  oiling  is  done. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


MICE,   INSECTS,    VERMIN 


HOUSEHOLD    INSECTS    AND    METHODS    OF   CONTROL 

(Extracts  from  Bulletin  under  above  title,  being  Sanitation  Series   No.    3,    Cornell   Reading 
Course,    New   York  State  College   of  Agriculture,  Ithaca,  N.  Y. ) 

THE  HOUSE  FLY 

It  has  been  conclusively  shown  that  house  flies  carry  the  germs  of  cholera, 
typhoid  fever,  cholera  infantum,  and  tropical  dysentery,  on  their  feet,  legs  and 
bodies  and  in  their  digestive  tracts.  There  can  be  no  doubt  of  the  responsibility  of 
the  house  fly  for  much  sickness  and  many  deaths. 


Where  Flies  Breed — The  main  breeding-places 
of  house  flies  are  in  piles  of  stable  manure,  espe- 
cially horse  manure,  in  rotting  straw  and  manure 
lying  in  stables  and  barnyards,  in  the  kitchen  refuse 
of  garbage  cans  and  barrels,  in  manure  piles  about 
pigpens  and  poultry  houses,  in  human  excrement 
lying  in  the  pits  of  loose  or  open  closets,  and,  in 
fact,  in  almost  any  decaying  vegetable  matter  that 
lies  long  enough  in  one  place  to  ferment  and  decay. 


The  fact  should  be  emphasized  that  the  most  dan- 
gerous breeding-place  for  flies  is  in  open  closets; 
for  in  these  places  the  germs  of  typhoid  fever, 
dysentery,  and  cholera  infantum  are  found.  By  all 
means  the  pits  of  closets  should  be  tight  and  dark 
so  that  no  flies  will  enter  them;  and  the  contents 
should  be  kept  covered  with  fine  ashes  or  dirt.  In 
addition,  the  pits  should  be  cleaned  rather  often 
and  the  contents  carefully  buried  far  from  wells 
and  springs  of  water. 


METHODS  OF  CONTROL 


Treatment  of  Manure  Piles — Chlorid  of  lime,  at 
the  rate  of  I  pound  of  lime  to  8  quarts  of  manure, 
will  kill  the  maggots  if  it  is  thoroughly  mixed  with 
the  manure.  Unfortunately,  this  treatment  is  ex- 
pensive; the  chlorin  fumes  from  treated  manure 
irritate  the  eyes  of  livestock,  and  it  is  not  certain 
whether  or  not  the  chlorid  of  lime  destroys  the 
fertilizing  value  of  the  manure. 

Kerosene  oil  will  kill  the  maggots,  but  too  much 
of  it  is  required  for  its  use  to  be  economical.  Lime 
has  been  used  for  this  purpose,  and  has  not  proved 
an  efficient  destroyer  of  the  maggots. 

It  has  been  found  by  J.  J.  Davis  that  a  solution 
of  iron  sulfate,  2  pounds  in  a  gallon  of  water,  or 
2  J/2  pounds  of  dry  sulfate  per  horse  each  day,  will 
kill  the  maggots  when  mixed  with  the  manure. 
Iron  sulfate  is  so  cheap  that  it  will  not  cost  more 
than  2  cents  per  day  for  1  horse;  and  in  addition 
it  will  completely  deodorize  the  manure. 

The  Storage  and  Removal  of  Manure — It  has 
been  shown  that  flies  prefer  light,  open  places  in 
which  to  breed  and  that  they  rarely  enter  dark 
rooms  to  deposit  their  eggs.  It  is  therefore  wise  to 
build  a  dark,  well-screened  room  or  a  tight  cement 
pit  in  which  manure  can  be  stored  for  a  long  time 
or  from  which,  if  preferred,  it  can  be  removed  once 
or  twice  a  week.  In  the  country,  where  it  is  pre- 
ferred to  remove  the  manure  once  or  twice  a  week 
rather  than  to  store  it,  it  should  be  drawn  to  the 
fields  and  scattered  thinly  over  the  surface.  If  the 
manure   is   left   in   piles   or   in    large   lumps   there  is 


still  danger  of  its  serving  as  a  breeding-place  for 
flies. 

The  Box  Privy — Flies  that  come  from  the  privy 
are  the  most  dangerous.  Not  only  do  they  bring 
germs  to  our  tables,  but  they  are  likely  to  con- 
taminate the  milk  that  may  be  used  for  feeding 
children. 

There  is  no  longer  any  excuse  for  the  old,  open 
box  privy,  cleaned  once  a  year.  It  is  a  menace  to 
the  whole  household  and  to  the  neighborhood  as 
well.  The  pit  must  be  fly-proof  and,  in  addition, 
the  contents  should  be  carefully  covered  each  day 
with  a  liberal  supply  of  fine  road  dust  or  sifted 
ashes.  Finally,  the  pit  should  be  emptied  as  often 
as  possible  and  the  contents  should  be  buried  far 
from  wells   and   springs   of  drinking   water. 

Fly  Traps — Every  one  is  familiar  with  the  dif- 
ferent types  of  wire  fly  traps.  Many  of  them  are 
excellent  and    their   use   is   recommended. 

Insect  Powder A  powder  known  as  pyrethrum, 

Persian  insect  powder,  or  buhach,  is  sold  for  killing 
all  kinds  of  household  insects.  Buhach  is  a  Cali- 
fornia product,  and  is  more  likely  to  be  fresh  than 
the  imported  Persian  product.  There  is  no  more 
satisfactory  way  of  ridding  a  kitchen  of  house  flies 
than  by  the  use  of  this  powder.  At  night  all  the 
doors  and  windows  of  the  kitchen  should  be  closed; 
fresh  powder  should  be  sprinkled  over  the  stove, 
on  the  window  ledges,  tables,  and  in  the  air.  In  the 
morning  flies  will  be  found  lying  around  dead  or 
stupefied.     They  may  then  be  swept  up  and  burned. 


328 


CONVENIENCES— MICE,  INSECTS,  VERMIN 


329 


Bichromate  of  Potash — This  is  a  substance  often 
used  for  killing  flies.  It  is  not  a  virulent  poison, 
and  little  danger  is  incurred  in  putting  it  about  the 
room.  It  should  be  dissolved  in  water  at  the  rate 
of  1  part  of  potash  to  2  parts  of  water,  and  should 
then  be  set  about  the,  room  in  shallow  dishes.  If 
the  room  can  be  darkened  with  the  exception  of 
one  window,  and  the  solution  placed  on  the  ledge 
of  this  window  in  the  light,  quicker  results  will  be 
obtained. 

Formaldehyde — One  of  the  best  solutions  for  at- 
tracting and  killing  flies  is  a  dilute  mixture  of  for- 
maldehyde (40  per  cent)  and  water.  Two  table- 
spoonfuls  in  a  pint  of  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water, 
set  about  the  room  in  plates,  will  attract  the  flies 
and  kill  many  of  them,  provided  there  is  no  other 
food  or  water  for  them  to  feed  on.  A  piece  of 
bread  placed  in  the  middle  of  each  plate  for  the  flies 
to  alight  on  will  make  the  bait  more  attractive. 

Fly-Papers Tanglefoot    fly-papers    should    be    in 

use  in  kitchen  and  dining  room  if  flies  are  present. 
No  fly  should  be  allowed  to  live  in  any  kitchen  a 
minute  longer  than  is  absolutely  necessary  to  pro- 
vide means  for  its  destruction. 


Screens — If  we  could  eliminate  all  the  breeding- 
places  for  flies  we  should  be  free  from  them.  This 
is  too  much  to  expect  at  present,  and  the  screening 
of  windows   and  doors  seems   necessary. 

Flies  enter  a  house  largely  through  the  back  door 
leading  to  the  kitchen.  They  are  attracted  to  this 
opening  by  the  odor  of  cooking  food  and  by  the 
warm  air  pouring  outward  when  the  door  is  opened. 
This  is  especially  noticeable  toward  night  on  a 
wire  gauze  door  if  the  main  door  is  left  open.  The 
wire  screen  is  often  literally  black  with  flies,  and 
whenever  it  is  opened  some  of  them  are  almost 
sure  to  enter.  Moreover,  this  door  is  opened  prob- 
ably more  than  any  other  in  the  house.  The  only 
efficient  method  of  keeping  flies  out  of  the  kitchen 
is  to  build  a  porch  over  the  back  door  and  screen 
the  three  open  sides.  Of  course,  a  wire  gauze 
door  must  be  placed  in  one  side  wherever  it  is  most 
desired.  With  this  arrangement  the  flies  cannot 
gather  on  the  screen  door  of  the  kitchen,  and  they 
do  not  gather  on  the  porch  screen  door  in  such 
vast  numbers  because  less  warm  air  and  odor  is 
present  there. 


THE  CLUSTER  FLY 


A  word  should  be  said  about  the  cluster,  or 
bunch,  or  honey,  fly,  as  it  is  variously  called.  This 
fly  is  slightly  larger  than  the  house  fly  and  appears 
longer  and  narrower.  It  is  familiar  to  most  house- 
keepers because  of  its  habit  of  entering  houses  in 
autumn  and  hiding  away  in  protected  nooks  and 
corners  in  large  clusters.  Clusters  may  be  seen  in 
the  corners  of  a  room,  beneath  garments  hung  in 
closets,  and  behind  curtains  at  darkened  windows. 
The  cluster  fly  is  an  annoyance  because  of  its  habit 
of  specking  and  spoiling  the  wall  paper. 

Normally,  the  cluster  fly  lives  out  of  doors,  fre- 
quently on  the  flowers  and  fruits  of  plants.  In  the 
autumn,  however,  it  enters  dwellings  in  search  of 
snug  retreats  in  which  to  pass  the  winter.  It 
seems    to    frequent    unused    and    darkened    rooms; 


the  writer  has  never  seen  it  in  any  abundance  in 
light,    much-used    rooms. 

Methods  of  Control — Screens  are  of  no  use  in 
keeping  this  fly  out  of  a  room.  It  will  find  cracks 
and  crevices  beneath  the  clapboards  and  around 
the  window  casings,  through  which  it  may  crawl 
in  spite  of  all  that  can  be  done.  The  most  feasible 
plan  of  controlling  the  species  is  that  given  by  one 
of  our  correspondents,  who  says:  "The  only  way 
I  have  found  to  keep  them  out  of  the  room  is  to 
leave  out  screens,  lower  the  windows  from  the  top, 
and  have  the  room  light."  As  cold  weather  sets  in 
the  clusters  of  flies  may  be  swept  up  and  burned. 

Fresh  pyrethrum  or  insect  powder,  dusted  freely 
on  the  clusters  of  flies,  will  paralyze  and  kill  them 
so  that  they  may  be  swept  up  and  burned. 


THE  MOSQUITO 


The  mosquito  is  really  a  kind  of  small  fly,  not 
unlike  the  house  fly  except  in  size  and  in  its  power 
to  "bite.*"  Mosquitoes  are  no  more  abundant  to- 
day than  they  were  100  hundred  years  ago;  but 
much  greater  interest  is  shown  in  them  nowadays 
than  formerly  because  of  their  relation  to  certain 
diseases.  There  are  known  to  be  over  500  differ- 
ent kinds  of  mosquitoes  in  the  world;  over  60  spe- 
cies occur  in  the  United  States.  Not  more  than 
half  a  dozen  of  these  are  at  all  common  about  our 
houses;  only  3  of  them  are  known  to  carry  mala- 
ria, and  only  1  is  concerned  in  disseminating  yel- 
low fever. 


The  Bite  of  a  Mosquito The  beak  of  a  mos- 
quito is  made  of  6  bristle-like  or  lance-like  organs 
enclosed  in  a  sheath.  The  bristle-like  organs  are 
the  puncturing  parts  of  the  beak,  for  the  sheath 
does  not  enter  the  flesh  when  a  mosquito  bites. 

When  a  mosquito  is  puncturing  the  skin,  an  irri- 
tating poison,  the  chemical  nature  of  which  is  not 
known,  is  injected  into  the  wound.  This  poisonous 
substance  causes  an  itching  sensation.  The  imme- 
diate area  turns  red  and  becomes  inflamed,  and  in 
the  case  of  some  persons  much  swelling  follows. 
The  itching  and  irritation  may  be  relieved  by  the 
application  of  dilute  solutions  of  ammonia,  a   5   per 


330 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  V— CONVENIENCES 


cent  solution  of  carbolic  acid,  or  a  I  per  cent  lotion 
of  menthol. 

Methods    of    Controlling    Mosquitoes The    best 

way  to  get  rid  of  mosquitoes  is  to  drain  or  fill  up 
the  ponds,  pools,  or  other  bodies  of  water  in  which 
the  insects  breed.  Old  tin  cans,  pails,  or  other  use- 
less receptacles  that  may  hold  water  should  be 
turned  bottom  side  up  or  drawn  away  far  from 
the  house.  Rain  barrels  and  tanks  may  be  covered 
with  galvanied  wire  netting,  at  least  1 4  meshes  to 
the  inch,  so  as  to  prevent  the  mosquitoes  from 
laying  their  eggs  on  the  water. 

In  many  cases  ponds,  pools  and  tanks  that  can- 
not be  drained  may  be  sprinkled  with  kerosene  oil 
every  two  weeks  during  the  summer.  The  oil 
spreads  over  the  water  in  a  thin  film  and  prevents 
the  wrigglers  from  obtaining  air  through  their 
breathing  tubes;  consequently  they  are  drowned. 
Furthermore,  the  oil  kills  the  eggs  and  prevents 
the    female   mosquitoes   from    depositing    any   more. 

In  case  of  those  pools  and  tanks  that  cannot  be 
drained  or  that  it  is  not  desirable  to  cover  with  oil, 
fishes  may  be  introduced  which  will  destroy  the 
wrigglers.  For  example,  goldfish,  sunfish,  or  cer- 
tain minnows  serve  to  keep  pools  free  from  mos- 
quitoes. 

The  Use  of  Bed  Nets — But  in  spite  of  our  best 
efforts  there  are  always  a  few  mosquitoes  in  certain 
regions.  One  good  method  of  escape  from  them 
is  by  the  careful  use  of  bed  nets.  If  a  net  is  ar- 
ranged so  that  it  does  not  hang  in  folds  and  is  not 
too  low  and  close  to  the  sleeper,  little  air  is  ex- 
cluded.     In  order  to  be  serviceable,   a  net  must  be 


free  from  rents  and  large  enough  to  reach  the  floor 
on  all  sides  of  the  bed.  A  bobbinet  bar,  closed 
on  all  sides,  makes  an  ideal  net.  Care  should  be 
taken  not  to  allow  mosquitoes  to  enter  the  net 
with  the  sleeper,  and  the  edge  of  the  net  must  not 
catch  on  the  bed  rail  or  cover  and  remain  off  the 
floor  during  the  night.  If  one  must  travel  in  a 
malarial  region  infested  with  mosquitoes,  a  light 
net  should  always  constitute  a  part  of  the  travel- 
ing outfit  and  have  its  place  in  the  bag  with  other 
necessities. 

Going  Indoors  Early  at  Night — It  is  now  known 
that  night  air  does  not  carry  miasma  or  malaria; 
but  it  is  just  as  important  to  remain  in  the  house 
at  night  as  it  ever  was,  because  mosquitoes  are 
particularly  active  after  dark.  Therefore,  in  order 
to  escape  the  bites  of  Anopheles  mosquitoes  and 
the  accompanying  malaria,  it  is  important  to  re- 
main indoors  after  dark  or  to  have  the  sitting 
porches  closely  screened. 

Repellents  for  Adult  Mosquitoes — Various  mix- 
tures, oils,  and  ingredients  are  used  for  repelling 
adult  mosquitoes.  Oil  of  citronella  is  said  to  be 
an  efficient  protection,  but  its  efficiency  will  not 
long  continue  at  most,  and  it  is  not  to  be  relied 
on  during  a  night  of  sleep.  It  is  mainly  useful 
while  one  is  sitting  on  porches  or  in  rooms  where 
mosquitoes   are    troublesome. 

The  following  mixture  is  recommended:  cedar 
oil,  1  ounce;  oil  of  citronella,  2  ounces;  spirits  of 
camphor,  2  ounces.  A  few  drops  of  this  mixture 
on  a  cloth  hung  on  the  bed  will  keep  mosquitoes 
at  a  distance  and  ■will  be  effective  for  a  long  time. 


THE    BEDBUG 


The  body  of  the  bedbug  is  flat  and  wide,  a  char- 
acter that  fits  it  wonderfully  well  to  the  place  that 
it  has  chosen  for  its  home.  The  cracks  and  crevices 
of  bedsteads  furnish  admirable  protective  retreats 
for  an  insect  with  a  flat,  thin  body.  Moreover,  the 
bedbug  has  no  large  wings  to  get  in  its  way  and 
encumber  its  retreat. 

Dissemination  of  the  Bedbug — It  is  often  puz- 
zling to  know  how  these  insects  become  established 
in  a  house.  One  of  the  most  prevalent  ways  is  on 
laundry  brought  in  by  the  washerwoman.  The 
writer  has  repeatedly  seen  bedbugs  come  in  on  the 
weekly  laundry.  In  several  instances  the  insects 
were  seen  on  the  white  spread  of  a  bed  where  clean 
clothes  had  been  laid  by  the  laundress. 

If  the  members  of  a  family  travel  considerably 
they  are  likely  to  bring  the  pest  home  in  their 
trunks  and  handbags.  Guests  who  have  been 
traveling  and  stopping  at  various  hotels  often  un- 
wittingly become  the  source  of  infestation  by  bring- 
ing the  pest  in  their  baggage.  In  towns  and  cities, 
where  houses  are  built  close  together,  bedbugs 
will  actually  migrate  from  one  house  to  another. 


Control  of  the  Bedbug — In  the  first  place,  iron 
or  brass  bedsteads  are  much  more  desirable'  than 
wooden  beds  in  a  fight  against  this  pest.  The 
former  offer  few  cracks  and  crevices,  and  these 
are  easily  reached. 

The  old-fashioned  remedies,  such  as  kerosene 
oil,  gasoline,  or  benzine,  when  forced  into  craeks 
and  crevices  with  a  hand  syringe  or  a  feather,  are 
still  among  the  most  efficient  weapons  against  the 
bedbug.  The  treatment  must  be  thorough  and 
should  be  made  several  times  in  succession,  with 
intervals  of  3  or  4  days  between  applications  ir 
order  to  give  time  for  any  untouched  eggs  to 
hatch. 

A  mixture  of  1  ounce  corrosive  sublimate,  1  pint 
alcohol,  and  J/^  pint  spirits  of  turpentine,  painted 
in  the  cracks  of  a  bedstead  with  a  feather,  is  an- 
other  old-fashioned    and  effective    remedy. 

Boiling  water,  poured  over  the  parts  of  a  bed- 
stead after  they  have  been  placed  where  they  may 
be  liberally  treated,  will  kill  both  eggs  and  bugs. 
Of  course,  boiling  water  should  not  be  used  on 
highly  polished   or  on   varnished  furniture. 


CONVENIENCES— MICE,   INSECTS,   VERMIN 


331 


Sulfur  has  been  used  with  success  by  some  per- 
sons. Not  less  than  2  pounds  of  sulfur  to  every 
1,000  cubic  feet  of  space  should  be  burned,  and 
the  rooms  should  be  tightly  closed  for  several 
hours.  In  order  to  close  the  cracks  around  win- 
dows and  doors,  strips  of  newspaper  may  be  soaked 
in  water  and  applied  rapidly  over  the  cracks.  They 
will    stick    tightly    for    many    hours.       The    sulfur 


should  be  placed  in  a  kettle  set  on  bricks  in  a  tub 
of  water  so  as  to  avoid  danger  from  fire.  A  half 
teacupful  of  wood  alcohol  poured  on  the  sulfur  and 
then  lighted  will  serve  to  burn  the  sulfur  com- 
pletely. 

It  must  be  remembered  that  sulfur  fumes  bleach 
certain  colors  in  wall  papers  and  fabrics,  and  tar- 
nish metals  of  various  sorts. 


COCKROACHES 


Cockroaches  are  exceedingly  annoying  because 
of  their  proneness  to  get  into  substances  and  be- 
cause of  their  filthy,  disgusting  habits.  Often  they 
become  so  numerous  that  they  destroy  considerable 
material.  They  are  likely  to  attack  the  bindings 
of  books  and  other  leather  articles.  In  the  larder 
they  will  attack  almost  any  foodstuff,  polluting 
more  than  they  actually  destroy. 

Methods    of    Control In     fighting     cockroaches, 

persistence  should  be  the  watchword.  The  insects 
are  shy,  apparently  cautious  regarding  baits  and 
poisons,  and  difficult  to  reach  in  any  manner. 

Various  kinds  of  traps  have  been  devised  for 
catching  roaches.  The  box  with  cone-shaped 
tubes  affords  a  sample  of  a  modern  trap. 
The  box  is  baited  at  night  with  cheese  or 
other  favorite  food.  The  roaches  can  enter  but 
cannot  escape. 

A  rather  unique  method  of  killing  roaches  is 
described  by  Mr.  Tepper  of  Australia.  Plaster  of 
paris,  I  part,  is  mixed  in  a  saucer  with  flour,  3  or 
4  parts,  and  placed  where  the  insects  are  abund- 
ant. Near  at  hand  is  placed  a  flat  dish  containing 
water,  with  bridges  so  arranged  that  the  roaches 
can  easily  reach  it.  They  eat  of  the  flour  and  the 
plaster  of  paris,  and  either  are  killed  or  leave  the 
premises. 


A  powder  known  as  insectoline,  manufactured 
by  the  Insectoline  Company,  Chicago,  Illinois,  has 
given  good  results  in  fighting  these  insects.  The 
writer  has  used  it  in  kitchen  and  pantries  with  sat- 
isfactory results.  In  order  to  obtain  the  best  re- 
sults with  this  powder,  it  must  be  applied  in  large 
quantities  and  persistently. 

Professor  F.  L.  Washburn,  after  failure  with  sev- 
eral so-called  remedies  for  cockroaches,  tried  pow- 
dered borax,  and  has  this  to  say  concerning  its 
value  as  an  exterminator  of  roaches:  "We  then 
turned  to  powdered  borax,  using  it  freely  in  the 
kitchen  with  marked  success.  This  was  sprinkled 
in  cracks  about  the  sink,  along  the  tops  of  base- 
boards, near  the  sink,  and  elsewhere,  wherever 
there  were  cracks  that  afforded  the  insects  a  hiding 
place.  By  a  generous  use  of  this  substance,  per- 
sisted in  for  two  weeks,  the  room,  in  fact,  we  may 
say  the  premises,  were  entirely  freed  from  this  dis- 
gusting pest." 

Whatever  powder  or  substance  is  used,  it  must 
be  applied  in  large  quantities  and  at  short  inter- 
vals for  an  extended  period  of  time.  Persistence 
and  thoroughness  are  absolutely  essential  to  the 
control  of  cockroaches. 

Hydrocyanic  acid  gas  is  successfully  employed 
against   cockroaches. 


ANTS 


Methods  of  Control Perhaps  the  first  method  of 

prevention  is  to  remove  the  substance  attracting 
the  ants.  If  this  cannot  be  done,  the  food  may  be 
placed  on  a  support,  the  legs  of  which  rest  in  water 
covered  with  a  film  of  oil. 

Another  temporary  expedient,  and  one  that  may 
discourage  the  ants  enough  to  finally  stop  them 
from  coming,  is  to  soak  small  sponges  in  sweetened 
water  and  place  them  where  the  insects  are  most 
numerous.  The  ants  will  crawl  into  the  pores  of 
the  sponges  in  great  numbers  and  may  be  killed 
by  dropping  the  sponges  into  boiling  water.  This 
process  should  be  repeated  over  and  over,  and 
thousands  of  the  workers  may  thus  be  destroyed. 
In  instances  in  which  this  practice  has  been  given 
a  thorough  and  persistent  trial,  the  ants  have  be- 
come so  discouraged  and  bewildered  by  the  sudden 
loss  of  so  many  workers  that  they  have  finally  aban- 
doned the  house  entirely. 


A  syrup  made  by  dissolving  sugar  and  borax 
in  boiling  water,  placed  about  the  infested  room 
in  small  dishes,  will  attract  and  kill  many  of  the 
ants.  It  is  said  also  that  camphor,  either  free  or 
wrapped  loosely  in  paper  and  placed  around  the 
foods  attracting   the  ants,   will   drive   them  away. 

If  carefully  watched,  the  ants  may  often  be 
traced  and  the  crack  or  opening  through  which 
they  enter  may  be  discovered.  When  found,  kero- 
sene oil  should  be  squirted  into  it  or  it  should  be 
tightly  plugged  with  cotton  soaked  in  kerosene. 
This  practice  is  often  an  effectual  preventive. 

Ordinary  ants  may  be  prevented  from  reaching 
tables  by  setting  the  legs  of  the  tables  in  cups  con- 
taining a  little  water  with  kerosene  oil  on  the  sur- 
face. This  method  avails  little  with  the  Argentine 
ants,  however,  since  they  soon  manage  to  cross 
the  oil  on  a  causeway  formed  from  the  dead  bodies 
of  their  sacrificed   comrades.      Against   the    red   ant 


332 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  V— Conveniences 


and  the  little  black  ant,  the  film  of  oil  is  an  effective 
barrier  until  the  oil  evaporates,  when  it  must  be 
renewed. 

Cyanid  of  potassium  has  been  used  with  marked 
effect  against  ants  in  the  field.  It  is  a  deadly 
poison,  and  should  be  handled  with  great  care. 
If  it  is  powdered  fine  and  scattered  over  an  ant  hill 
after  the  latter  has  been  broken  up  or  stirred  on 
the  surface,  the  ants  will  begin  immediately  to  re- 
move the  pieces.  In  doing  so,  every  ant  that 
touches  the  cyanid  will  be  killed.  Colonies  have 
been  almost  exterminated  in  this  way,  and  when- 
ever the  colonies  of  the  red  ant  can  be  located  the 
cyanid  may  be  used  to  advantage.  It  will  be  found 
more  useful  against  the  normally  outdoor  species, 
such  as  the  pavement  ant  and  the  carpenter  ant, 
than  against  the  red  ant. 

It  must  be  remembered  that  if  fowls  are  allowed 
access  to  the  poison  and  pick  up  the  pieces  they 
certainly  will  be  poisoned.  In  order  to  obviate 
this  difficulty,  it  is  best  to  use  the  cyanid  in  solution 
by  dissolving  it  in  water  at  the  rate  of  an  ounce  to 
a  gallon  of  water.  It  may  then  be  sprayed  over  the 
nest  or  poured  down  the  openings.  This  method 
seems  to  be  quite  as  effective  as  scattering  the 
poison  in  the  pulverized  form;  at  least,  experiments 
have  shown  that  some  species  of  ants  may  be  near- 
ly, if  not  quite,  exterminated  in  this  way.  Another 
very  effective  method  of  application  consists  in 
placing  a  pint  or  more  of  the  solution  in  hollows 
dug  out  at  the  exits  of  the  burrows  of  the  colony. 

Ordinary  cotton  tape,  treated  with  corrosive 
sublimate,  acts  as  an  effectual  barrier  to  the  red 
ant  and  other  species.  The  tape  is  often  wound 
about  the  legs  of  tables,  or  it  may  be  tacked  along 
the  edges  of  shelves  and  in  other  places  to  protect 
food.  The  ants  will  not  cross  these  strips  of  tape. 
The  prepared  tape  may  be  bought  in  the  larger 
cities  of  the  South,  but  the  author  has  never  seen 
it  for  sale  in  cities  in  the  North.  Since  one  often 
receives  an  inferior  article  from  the  store  it  is  bet- 
ter to  prepare  the  tape  at  home. 

Mr.  Newell  makes  a  solution  of  the  corrosive 
sublimate  by  heating  it  in  water  in  a  granite-ware 
vessel  and  dissolving  all  that  the  water  will  take 
up.  After  this  solution  has  cooled  it  is  filtered. 
The  solution  may  be  filtered,  in  the  absence  of 
filter  paper,  through  a  fine  quality  of  cotton  bat- 
ting. A  thick  layer  of  the  cotton  should  be  placed 
in  a  funnel,  and  the  solution  should  be  poured  in 
and  allowed  to  filter  through.  The  tape  is  then 
soaked  in  this  filtered  solution  and  pinned  on  the 
wall  to  dry.  Neither  the  solution  nor  the  tape 
should  be  allowed  to  come  in  contact  with  iron, 
tin,  or  steel.  When  the  tape  is  well  made  it  will 
remain  effective  for  many  months,  even  for  a  year. 

Tartar  emetic,  mixed  with  4  or  5  times  its  vol- 
ume of  syrup  and  placed  about  in  shallow  dishes,  is 


an  effective  remedy  against  house  ants.  If  some 
of  this  mixture,  poured  into  individual  butter  plates, 
is  set  about  in  a  refrigerator  where  ants  are  trouble- 
some, or  in  a  pantry  that  ants  frequent,  the  little 
pests  will  soon  leave.  In  some  cases  it  has  proved 
to  be  one  of  the  simplest  and  most  effectual  rem- 
edies that  can  be  used  to  rid  a  house  of  these  per- 
sistent pests. 

The  only  method  of  getting  rid  of  ants  perma- 
nently is  by  locating  their  nests  and  treating  them 
in  such  a  way  that  the  queen  will  finally  be  de- 
stroyed. No  more  eggs  will  be  laid,  and  the  pro- 
duction of  workers  will  cease.  One  of  the  best 
substances  for  treating  nests,  in  order  to  kill  the 
queen  and  exterminate  the  workers,  is  carbon  bisul- 
fid.  It  is  often  difficult  to  locate  the  nest,  and  some- 
times when  found  it  will  be  in  an  inaccessible  situ- 
ation; for  example,  it  may  be  discovered  in  the 
foundation  walls,  under  the  floor,  or  in  some  other 
equally  secluded  and  protected  place.  One  writer 
suggests  that  black  ants  may  be  traced  to  their 
nests  by  baiting  them  with  broken  pieces  of  rice, 
farina,  or  cream  of  wheat.  The  ants  will  carry 
these  pieces  of  white  food  to  their  nests  and  may  be 
easily  traced  in  this  manner.  Perhaps  the  red  ant 
may  "be  followed  to  its  home  by  the  same  means. 
When  the  colony  is  located  it  may  be  treated  with 
carbon  bisulfid  by  pouring  an  ounce  or  two  of  the 
liquid  into  each  of  several  holes  made  in  the  nest 
with  a  sharpened  stick,  after  which  operation  the 
mouth  of  each  hole  should  be  quickly  stopped  with 
a  clod  of  dirt.  A  heavy  wet  blanket  thrown  over 
the  nest  will  aid  in  retaining  the  gas  and  will  tend 
to  make  the  fumigation  more  effective.  The  liquid 
evaporates  quickly  and  the  gas  permeates  the  whole 
nest,  killing  the  queen  and  the  workers  and  exter- 
minating the  colony.  By  attaching  a  torch  to  the 
end  of  a  long  pole  and  extending  it  out  over  the 
nest  while  the  operator  stands  at  a  safe  distance, 
the  gas  may  be  exploded  and  the  fumes  driven  into 
all  corners  of  the  colony.  If  the  colony  is  located 
in  the  foundation  walls,  the  problem  will  be  much 
more  difficult  and  may  be  impossible  of  solution. 
The  difficulty  will  be  in  reaching  the  nest  with  the 
liquid.  If  the  nest  is  located  under  the  floor,  it  may 
be  necessary  to  remove  a  piece  of  the  flooring  in 
order  to  gain  access  to  the   colony. 

In  the  use  of  carbon  bisulfid,  it  must  be  remem- 
bered that  the  gas  is  inflammable  and  explosive, 
and  no  form  of  fire  or  light  should  be  brought  near 
the  place  that  is  being  fumigated. 

L.  J.  Nickels  has  been  very  successful  in  poison- 
ing Argentine  ants  with  a  weak  solution  of  sodium 
arsenite.  For  a  weak  solution,  he  dissolved  a  little 
more  than  I  ounce  of  the  arsenite  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  hot  water.  When  dissolved  the  sodium  ar- 
senite   was    added    to    a    sweetened    solution    of    20 


CONVENIENCES— MICE,   INSECTS,   VERMIN 


333 


pounds  of  sugar  dissolved  in  3  quarts  of  water.  It 
was  necessary  to  heat  the  syrup  mixture  so  as  to 
thoroughly  dissolve  the  sugar. 

In  order  to  make  a  small  amount  of  the  mixture, 
3  grams  of  the  arsenite  should  be  dissolved  in  a 
small  quantity  of  water  and  added  to  a  sweetened 
syrup  of  2  pounds  of  sugar  dissolved  in  %  of  a  pint 
of   water.      Small    sponges    may    be    soaked    in    this 

CLOTHES 

Methods    of    Control First    of    all,    it    should    be 

definitely  understood  that  odors  emanating  from 
small  quantities  of  various  substances,  such  as  cam- 
phor balls,  cedar,  and  naphthalene,  have  no  killing 
effect  either  on  moths  or  on  larvae.  Cedar  chests 
or  closets  lined  with  cedar  are  of  no  avail  if  eggs 
are  once  deposited  on  clothes  stored  in  them.  Ap- 
parently, the  odor  of  cedar  has  some  repelling 
effect  on  the  moths  themselves.  The  odor  of  cam- 
phor balls  also  has  a  repellent  effect  on  the  moths; 
but  a  few  moth  balls  placed  among  clothes  in  a 
chest  do  not  prevent  injury  if  eggs  are  deposited 
on  the  garments  before  the  latter  are  put  away. 
The  real  function  and  value,  then,  of  cedar  chests 
or  closets  lies  in  repelling  moths  and  keeping  them 
away  from  the  garments.  The  clothing,  however, 
must  be  free  from  all  eggs  and  larvae  of  the  moths 
before  being  put  in  chests.  Great  care  must  be 
taken  to  shake  and  brush  the  garments  and  to 
have  them  in  the  sun  and  air  until  all  the  larvae 
and   eggs   have  been   shaken   loose   and   destroyed. 

In  the  second  place,  it  should  be  understood  that 
garments  which  are  often  worn  are  not  liable  to 
injury.  It  is  the  clothing  and  the  materials  that  are 
stored  away  in  closets  and  trunks  for  a  long  time 
undisturbed,  which  are  badly  injured.  It  is  under 
such  conditions  that  the  moths  have  an  oppor- 
tunity to  deposit  their  eggs,  that  the  eggs  have 
a  chance  to  lie  undisturbed  long  enough  to  hatch, 
and  that  the  larvae  have  occasion  to  eat  and  to 
grow  to   maturity. 

Sunlight  and  air  are  among  our  best  available 
agents  of  protection  from  clothes  moths.  Before 
garments  are  put  away  for  the  summer  they  should 
be  hung  in  the  air  and  sun,  and  then  be  thoroughly 
brushed  and  shaken  so  as  to  dislodge  the  eggs  and 
larvae  that  may  be  on  them.  In  addition,  they 
should  be  taken  out  occasionally,  perhaps  once  a 
month,  and  brushed,  shaken,  and  aired.  The  same 
treatment  should  be  accorded  woolen  bedding  and 
blankets   that  are   to   be   stored.      After   the    clothes 


poisoned  solution  and  placed  in  jars  so  that  the 
ants  can  easily  gain  access  to  them.  It  seems  that 
the  ants  will  carry  this  slightly  poisoned  syrup  to 
their  nests  and  feed  it  to  the  queen  and  to  the 
broods  of  young  ants,  gradually  killing  off  the 
whole  colony.  It  would  seem  as  though  the  same 
mixture  could  be  used  effectively  for  common  ants. 

MOTHS 

are  once  thoroughly  cleaned,  sunned  and  aired 
they  may  be  packed  away  with  a  supply  of  cam- 
phor balls  distributed  among  them  to  repel  the 
moths.  It  is  advisable  to  spray  the  cracks  in  clos- 
ets and  chests  with  benzine  or  gasoline  before  put- 
ting the  clothes  in  them,  in  order  to  kill  any  eggs 
or  larvae  of  the  moths  that  may  be  lurking  there. 

A  few  old  woolen  rags  or  pieces  of  old  furs, 
stored  in  attics  but  never  used,  are  prolific  breed- 
ing-places for  these  moths  and  should  be  taken 
out  and  burned. 

Doctor  Howard  early  suggested  a  method  of 
storing  winter  wraps  and  garments  during  the  sum- 
mer, which  is  practical  and  efficient.  He  goes  to 
the  tailor  shop  and  buys  a  few  common  pasteboard 
suit-boxes,  and  in  these  the  garments  to  be  stored 
are  neatly  folded  away.  Then  the  cracks  around 
the  edges  of  the  cover  are  sealed  by  pasting  strips 
of  paper  over  them.  This  makes  a  tight  box  that 
excludes  all  moths.  With  care  the  boxes  last  sev- 
eral  years. 

Another  method  of  storing  clothes  is  given  by  a 
resident  of  the  city  of  Washington,  D.  C.  He  has 
a  wooden  chest  for  holidng  his  clothes.  In  the 
cover  of  the  chest  he  has  bored  a  large  hole  and 
on  the  underside  of  the  cover,  directly  beneath  the 
hole,  he  has  tied  a  large  sponge.  In  the  middle  of 
the  summer  he  pours  a  little  carbon  bisulfid  on  the 
sponge  and  closes  the  hole  with  a  cork. 

Cold-storage  plants  are  common  nowadays  in  all 
cities  and  in  many  small  towns.  During  the  sum- 
mer these  plants  are  available  for  the  storage  of 
furs,   rugs,   and   other  valuable  woolen   goods. 

Doctor  Howard  reports  some  experiments  which 
demonstrate  that  a  continuous  temperature  of  40 
degrees  is  sufficient  to  maintain  the  larvae  of  clothes 
moths  in  an  inactive  condition  and  thus  prevent 
injury  by  them.  In  the  light  of  these  experiments, 
cold  storage  forms  the  simplest  and  safest  method 
of  protecting  woolen  goods  from  the  ravages  of 
clothes  moths. 


FLEAS 


Methods    of   Control It    follows    from    what    has 

been  said  regarding  the  kinds  of  fleas  found  in 
houses,  and  their  rate  of  increase,  that  pet  dogs 
and  cats  must  be  eliminated  or  must  be  kept  clean 
and  free  from  these  pests.  These  animals  may  be 
kept  reasonably  free  from  fleas  by  frequently  bath- 
ing them  in  a   solution   of   creolin.      A   dog  can   be 


bathed  with  a  3  per  cent  solution,  4  teaspoonfuls 
to  1  quart  of  water,  or  4  tablespoonfuls  to  I  gal- 
lon of  water.  Cats  are  more  sensitive,  and  should 
be  bathed  with  a   2  per  cent  solution. 

A  dog  or  a  cat  should  be  provided  with  a  sleep- 
ing-cloth or  rug,  which  should  be  beaten  or  shaken 
at  least  once   a   week  and    hung   in   the   sunlight,    if 


334 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  V— CONVENIENCES 


possible,  for  a  few  hours.  If  infested,  the  kennel 
should  be  thoroughly  washed  inside  and  outside 
with  a  5   per  cent  solution  of  creolin. 

To  clear  a  house  of  fleas  when  it  is  once  in- 
fested is  often  a  strenuous  task.  In  the  first  place, 
a  change  from  carpets  to  rugs,  if  possible,  is  recom- 
mended. The  larvae  of  fleas  cannot  develop  in 
rooms  in  which  the  floors  are  exposed  and  swept 
from  time  to  time.  In  severe  infestations,  nothing 
but  the  removal  of  all  floor  coverings,  followed  by 
a  thorough  washing  of  the  floors  with  strong  soap- 
suds, will  avail.  In  case  of  old  floors,  the  cracks 
should  be  filled  with  some  good  filler. 

The  use  of  benzine  or  gasoline  will  also  be  very 
helpful.  The  carpets  should  be  sprinkled  with  the 
gasoline.  Special  attention  should  be  paid  to  the 
edges  of  the  carpets  and  to  the  cracks  underneath 
the  baseboards.  Great  care  should  be  exercised 
regarding  fire  while  gasoline  is  being  applied,  ow- 
ing to  its  inflammable   character. 


Miss  Fields,  long  a  resident  of  Southern  China, 
says  she  renders  her  house  immune  from  fleas  by 
dissolving  alum  in  the  whitewash  or  the  calcimine 
when  it  is  applied  to  the  walls.  She  also  places 
sheets  of  thick  paper,  dipped  in  a  solution  of  alum, 
under  the  matting  and  scatters  pulverized  alum  in 
all  crevices  where  the  insects  might  breed.  Pow- 
dered alum,  she  states,  may  be  scattered  on  the 
carpet  and  swept  into  its  meshes  without  injury. 
Dr.  Henry  Skinner  has  had  good  results  with  the 
use  of  flake  naphthalene.  He  said  that  he  "took 
one  room  at  a  time,  scattered  on  the  floor  5  pounds 
of  flake  naphthalene  and  closed  it  for  24  hours. 
On  entering  such  a  room  the  naphthalene  vapor 
will  instantly  bring  tears  to  the  eyes  and  cause 
coughing  and  irritation  of  the  air  passages.  .  .  . 
It  proved  to  be  a  perfect  remedy  and  very  inex- 
pensive as  the  naphthalene  could  be  swept  up  and 
transferred   to   other   rooms." 


CARPET 

Methods  of  Control — The  carpet  beetles  will  al- 
ways be  difficult  to  control  in  houses  having  floors 
completely  covered  with  carpets  that  are  tightly 
tacked  about  the  edges.  A  carpet  placed  perma- 
nently on  the  floor  and  allowed  to  remain  there 
undisturbed  for  a  year  furnishes  ideal  conditions 
for  these  pests  to  thrive  and  increase.  As  was 
urged  in  the  case  of  fleas,  so  again  it  is  urged  that 
a  change  from  carpets  to  rugs  be  made  if  pos- 
sible. Where  bare  floors,  partially  covered  with 
rugs,  are  maintained,  the  carpet  beetles  will  not 
find  hiding  places  suited  to  their  development. 
Moreover,  the  rugs  can  be  examined,  without  diffi- 
culty at  any  time,  and  they  are  usually  dusted  and 
aired  too  often  for  the  larvae  to  gain  a  foothold. 
The  tendency  among  modern  homes  is  to  use  rugs 
on  polished  floors,  with  a  consequent  diminution 
of  the  carpet  beetles  as  a  household  pest. 

Where  the  insects  have  become  well  established 
in  a  house  nothing  but  heroic  measures  and  long- 
continued  efforts  will  avail.  House-cleaning  should 
certainly  occur  twice  a  year  instead  of  once,  and 
should  be  very  thoroughly  done,  at  least  so  far  as 
the  carpets  are  concerned.  They  should  be  re- 
moved, thoroughly  dusted  and  beaten,  sprayed 
with  gasoline,  and  hung  in  the  air  and  sunlight 
as  long  as  possible. 

The  floors  should  be  thoroughly  washed  and 
scrubbed  with  soap  and  water,  especially  along  the 
baseboards  and  the  cracks  of  the  floors.  It  would 
be  of  advantage  to  spray  the  cracks  beneath  the 
baseboards  with  benzine  or  gasoline,  to  clean  out 
all  the  dirt  possible  from  the  cracks  in  the  floor, 
and  to  pour  in  benzine  or  kerosene  oil.  Before 
the  carpet  is  replaced  on  old  floors  the  cracks 
should  be  filled  with  a  crack-filler,  and  thus  the 
favorite  hiding-places  for  the  larvae  might  be  elim- 
inated.      In   badly    infested    houses,    tarred    building 


BEETLES 

paper  may  be  placed  beneath  the  carpets,  but  the 
odor  from  such  paper  is  not  always  pleasant. 

The  carpet  may  be  loosely  tacked  about  the 
edges,  thus  affording  the  owner  an  opportunity  to 
examine  it  so  as  to  see  whether  the  pests  have  re- 
turned. The  following  is  a  good  account  of  the 
manner  in  which  one  housekeeper  finally  got  rid 
of  the  pests:  "My  own  experience  with  them  be- 
gan last  year.  We  moved  to  our  present  abode  in 
April,  and  it  was  not  until  every  carpet  had  been 
put  down  and  the  house  settled  that  I  was  aware 
that  we  had  such  unwelcome  guests.  I  was  not 
long  in  observing  their  habit  of  running  into  any 
crack  and  crevice  that  presented  itself,  and  also  run- 
ning along  the  joints  of  the  floors,  and  our  warfare 
against  them  was  directed  toward  these  joints.  In 
the  closets  we  stopped  up  every  nook  on  the -walls; 
every  crevice  under  the  baseboards,  and  filled  up 
the  joints  of  the  floors;  then  we  laid  down  oilcloth, 
and  kept  a  plentiful  supply  of  camphor  in  the 
closets.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  we  have  had  no 
trouble  with  them  since  so  doing. 

"Fortunately,  we  had  put  paper  under  all  the 
carpets,  so  we  felt  that  they  were  in  a  measure,  at 
least,  protected,  but  I  found  them  continually,  just 
under  the  edges  of  the  carpet.  As  far  as  possible 
we  filled  up  the  crevices  under  the  baseboards  and 
I  used  benzine  plentifully  all  the  summer,  saturat- 
ing the  borders  of  the  carpets  every  two  weeks 
and  killing  all  I  saw  in  the  meantime.  Last  spring 
we  varnished  the  cracks  of  the  floors,  and  in  some 
cases,  where  they  were  open,  covered  them  with 
strips  of  thin  muslin  stuck  down  with  the  varnish; 
we  again  put  paper  under  the  carpets,  as  we  had 
found  it  such  protection  the  previous  year.  I  have 
found  the  various  insect  powders  of  no  use  what- 
ever when  the  insect  is  in  the  larval  state;  whether 


CONVENIENCES— MICE,  INSECTS,  VERMIN 


335 


or  not  is  has  any  effect  on  the  beetle  I  cannot  say; 
but  this  I  can  state — that  our  unceasing  warfare 
has  not  been  in  vain,  for  I  have,  during  the  past 
summer,  seen  only  single  ones  where  last  year  I 
found   scores." 

Hydrocyanic  Acid  Gas — This  gas  is  quite  as 
effectual  for  the  carpet  beetle  as  it  is  for  the  bed- 
bug (see  Bedbugs). 

Sulfur — The  fumes  of  sulfur  are  quite  as  effec- 
tive as  hydrocyanic  acid  gas  if  enough  of  the  sul- 
fur is  burned  at  one  time.  Not  less  than  2  pounds 
of  sulfur  to  1,000  cubic  feet  of  space  should  be 
used.  The  room  should  be  tightly  calked  and 
closed  as  described  in  the  chapter  on  bedbugs. 
We  would  again  call  attention  to  the  injury  that 
may  result  from  sulful  fumes  to  metals,  wall 
papers,  and  similar  furnishings. 

Corrosive  Sublimate  and  Alcohol — As  we  have 
pointed  out,  the  larvae  congregate  mostly  about  the 
edges  of  the  carpets.  It  is  said  that  a  solution  of 
60  grains  of  corrosive  sublimate,  dissolved  in  I  pint 
of   alcohol,    and   applied   to    the    edges   and    under- 


sides of  the  carpet  around  the  borders,  will  poison 
the  larvae  when  they  begin  to  eat  the  fabric.  The 
alcohol  quickly  evaporates  and  leaves  the  corro- 
sive sublimate  among  the  fibers  of  the  carpet,  where 
it  will  remain  for  a  long  time.  Since  corrosive 
sublimate  is  such  a  virulent  poison,  great  care 
must  be  exercised  when  children  are  likely  to  play 
about  the  room,  lest  they  get  hold  of  some  of  the 
material  and  become  poisoned. 

Trapping  the  Larva? — The  larvae  may  be  trapped 
by  placing  woolen  cloths,  especially  red  ones,  in 
closets.  Among  these  the  larvae  will  congregate 
and  may  be  caught  and  killed  by  shaking  the 
cloths  once  a  week  over  a  piece  of  paper.  If  per- 
sistent effort  is  made,  many  of  them  may  be  killed. 

Protection  of  Furs  and  Woolens — These  may  be 
stored  in  boxes  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as  is 
described  in  the  chapter  on  clothes  moths.  The 
box  arranged  for  the  application  of  carbon  bisulfid 
serves  as  well  in  protecting  materials  from  the  car- 
pet beetle  as  from  the  clothes  moths. 


LARDER  BEETLES 


Methods  of  Control — In  the  first  place,  the 
beetles  are  easily  seen  and  may  be  caught  by  hand 
and  killed.  This  may  be  the  most  satisfactory  way 
of  dealing  with  them  if  they  are  not  too  abundant. 

Cheese  is  very  attractive  to  the  beetles;  if  pieces 
are  exposed  here  and  there  the  beetles  will  con- 
gregate and  may  be  caught  and  killed  in  consid- 
erable numbers.  Cheese  ground  up  and  poisoned 
with  arsenic,  and  then  placed  in  the  haunts  of  the 
beetles,  will  often  kill  many  of  them. 

When  hams  and  shoulders  are  put  away  they 
should  be  bagged  as  early  as  possible  after  being 
cured  and  should  be  wrapped  with  great  care.      If 


the  least  crack  or  opening  is  left  the  larvae  will 
find   entrance. 

If  a  ham  or  similar  food  should  become  infested 
with  the  grubs,  the  part  containing  them  should  be 
cut  away  and  burned;  the  remaining  part  of  the 
meat  should  be  treated  with  a  dilute  solution  of 
carbolic  acid. 

If  the  beetles  become  abundant,  and  there  are 
many  hiding-places,  the  room  in  which  they  are 
present  should  be  entirely  cleared  of  food  products 
and  anything  else  that  may  interfere  with  the  work 
of  cleaning.  The  storeroom  should  then  be  thor- 
oughly cleaned  and  finally  sprayed  with  benzine 
or  fumigated  with  carbon  bisulfid. 


FISH  MOTHS 


Methods    of    Control Usually    books    stored    in 

moist  basements  or  other  damp  rooms  are  the 
most  seriously  injured.  This,  of  course,  suggests 
airy,  dry  rooms  for  the  storage  of  books  or  valu- 
able papers  if  one  wishes  to  preserve  them  free 
from  injury  by  the  fish  moth. 

Another  common  method  of  preventing  injury 
to  books  and  papers  is  by  the  frequent  use  of  bu- 
hach  powder.  Fresh  buhach  should  be  sprinkled 
freely  on  the  shelves  and  on  the  books  themselves. 
Moreover,  this  treatment  should  be  given  frequently 
where  these  pests  are  abundant  and  persistent, 
because  the  powder  so  soon  loses  its  strength. 
In  badly  infested  houses,  starched  clothes,   stiffened 


silk,  and  similar  fabrics  should  not  be  allowed  to 
remain  too  long  packed  away  in  drawers  or  loose 
in    chests   or  boxes. 

It  is  customary  for  librarians  to  poison  sweet- 
ened paste  with  white  arsenic,  spread  the  mixture 
on  pieces  of  cardboard,  and  slip  the  latter  about 
on  shelves  among  the  infested  books  as  bait  for 
the  fish  moths.  It  would  seem  that  a  like  method 
of  procedure,  in  which  glue  is  substituted  for  the 
starch  matter,  might  also  succeed  in  killing  the 
pests.  These  pieces  of  cardboard  might  be  placed 
about  among  garments  or  other  stored  fabrics  if 
injury  by  the  fish  moth  is  anticipated. 


336 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  V— CONVENIENCES 


MISCELLANIES 


To  Dispose  of  Mice — The  "harmless,  neecssary 
cat"  is  usually  the  best  mice  exterminator.  Mice 
will  not  stay  long  in  a  home  where  there  is  a  cat. 
But  in  many  places  a  cat  is  not  wanted;  in  city 
apartments  they  are  a  great  deal  of  trouble,  and 
it  must  be  admitted  that  in  the  country  they  are  as 
capable  exterminators  of  the  desirable  songbird  as 
of  the  undesirable  mice.  Cayenne  pepper,  in  bags 
at  mice  holes,  or  sprinkled  down  them,  or  rags 
dipped  in  water  and  then  in  the  pepper  and  stuffed 
in  the  holes,  will  drive  mice  elsewhere.  Or  scatter 
camphor  about  where  they  run  and  in  their  holes; 
they  very  much  dislike  it,  and  will  leave  where  its 
odor  is  apparent  to  them  at  all. 

Red  Ants  are  also  driven  away  by  the  odor  of 
camphor  gum.  Camphor  may  be  placed  quite  near 
food  which  the  ants  are  after,  as  it  does  not  "ab- 
sorb" into  or  affect  the  food  at  all. 

When  ants  are  running,  dip  a  sponge  or  some 
fluffy  cotton  in  sweetened  water  and  place  it  in 
their  path;  they  will  immediately  infest  it,  then  drop 
it  in  hot  water,  clean  and  repeat.  Then  sprinkle 
the  camphor  to  drive  away  the  late  comers. 

For  Roaches,  as  "well  as  ants,  borax  is  efficacious. 
Do  not  moisten  it,  but  mix  it  powdered  with  gum 
camphor,  or  even  sprinkle  the  borax  alone,  thickly, 
over  the  closet  shelves  and  into  the  cracks  which 
seem  to  be  infested.  It  may  take  several  applica- 
tions, as  roaches  are  persistent;  but  in  the  end  will 
effectually  banish  them. 

Moths  or  Mice  will  not  invade  paper  boxes,  or 
boxes  covered  with  paper,  or  scrap  books,  etc.,  or 
books  packed  in  boxes,  if  alum  is  used  in  the  paste 
with  which  the  paper  covering  the  boxes,  etc.,  is 
pasted   on. 

To  Prevent  Moths  before  putting  away  shades  or 
rugs,  sprinkle  with  cayenne  pepper.  Use  it  any- 
where else,  in  place  of  "moth  balls"  (camphor) 
where  the  pepper  itself  would  later  not  be  objec- 
tionable  as  in  the  case  of  clothes. 

Water  Bugs — A  weak  solution  of  turpentine 
poured  down  the  water  pipes  once  a  week  will 
drive  away  water  bugs. 

Flies  may  be  kept  away  from  such  things  as  gilt 
frames  by  going  over  these  with  a  soft  brush  dipped 
in  a  pint  of  water  in  which  three  or  four  onions 
have  been  boiled. 

To  Wash  Linoleum — Varnish  new  linoleum  with 
a  good  quality  of  varnish  before  it  is  used.  This 
really  doubles  its  life.  Never  use  soap  in  scrubbing 
linoleum,  but  put  a  cup  of  kerosene  into  the  pail 
of  water,  wash  thoroughly  and  dry  off  with  a  soft 
cloth.  If  it  is  varnished  a  rub  over  with  one  of 
the   oiled    mops   ■will   keep   it   in   perfect    condition. 


New    linoleums    should    have    two    coats    of   varnish 
and  will  be  all  the  better  for  three. 

Oiled  and  Varnished  Wood  should  be  simply 
wiped  with  a  flannel  cloth  wrung  out  of  warm 
water.  Grained  wood  should  be  washed  with  cold 
tea.  Painted  wood  may  be  washed  in  warm  water 
with  a  few  drops  of  ammonia  used. 

Smoked  Ceilings  that  have  been  blackened  by 
lamp  or  gas  soot,  may  be  washed  off  with  soda 
water. 

Broken  Walls  may  be  filled  in  with  a  mixture  of 
white  and  plaster  of  paris  made  into  a  paste  with 
water,  or  with  vinegar  if  it  hardens  too  fast  for 
use.     Cover  over  with  paper  to  match  that  on  wall. 

Dustless  Dusters — After  washing,  ordinary  dus- 
ters dipped  in  kerosene  and  dried  in  the  open  air, 
make  excellent  home-made  "dustless"  dusters.  Dry 
mops  may  be  similarly  treated  with  good  effect. 

A  Wood-Box  Problem  (or  Coal  Box) — The  box 
is  usually  full  when  you  want  to  sweep.  Put 
casters  on  it,  so  you  can  move  it  around  easily. 

To  .Keep  Sponges  soft  and  clean,  wash  them  in 
warm  water  containing  a  little  tartaric  acid,  then 
rinse  in  plenty  of  cold  water.  Do  not  put  in  too 
much  of  the  acid,  or  have  the  water  very  hot,  or 
you  may  spoil  the  sponge;  be  sure  to  wash  the 
acid  out  thoroughly. 

Hot  Water  Bottles,  Bags,  Pans,  Jugs,  should  be 
hung  or  turned  upside  down  when  not  in  use,  to 
thoroughly  drain.  With  rubber  bags,  however,  as 
soon  as  well  drained,  but  before  entirely  dried  out 
inside,  put  in  the  stopper,  so  as  to  retain  a  little  of 
the  moist  air  (but  no  water)  as  this  moist  air  will 
make  the  rubber  last  longer  and  remain  soft  and 
flexible  better  than  too  dry  air  such  as  would  other- 
wise replace  the  moist  air  if  left  hanging  open  in  a 
warm  dry  room. 

Saving  Soap — Quantities  of  soap  are  thrown 
away.  When  a  cake  has  dwindled  to  a  thin  piece 
it  is  usually  discarded,  or  breaks  up  and  is  wasted. 
Two  or  three  such  pieces  may  be  moistened  and 
allowed  to  stand  until  soft,  then  stuck  together  and 
pressed  into  a  respectable  cake;  or  the  thin  pieces 
may  be  kept  in  a  can  or  bowl  until  a  sufficient 
number  are  collected,  then  covered  with  about 
four  times  as  much  water  as  there  is  soap  and 
boiled  until  the  soap  is  dissolved.  This  makes  a 
soft  soap  that  is  invaluable  where  suds  are  wanted. 
A  teaspoonful  of  the  soft  soap  will  serve  for  a  dish- 
pan  of  water  and  will  be  found  more  convenient 
than  cake  soap. 

To  Stop  a  Leak — A  temporary  stopping  of  a  leak 
in  a  water  or  gas  pipe  is  easily  effected  with  a  paste 


CONVENIENCES— MICE,   INSECTS,  VERMIN 


337 


made  of  yellow  soap  and  whiting.  This,  of  course, 
should  not  prevent  one's  sending  immediately  for 
the  plumber,  but  it  will  make  waiting  for  him  less 
trying. 

White  Enamel — To  keep  white  enamel  sink  and 
bath  tub  clean  and  beautifully  white  give  them  a 
good  rubbing  with  a  cloth  wet  with  kerosene,  then 
rinse  with  hot  soap  suds.  Dirt  will  instantly  disap- 
pear from  sinks,  bath  tubs  and  wash  bowls,  if  a 
woollen  cloth  dampened  in  gasoline  is  used. 


Water  Bugs — A  weak  solution  of  turpentine 
poured  down  the  water  pipes  once  a  week  will 
drive  away  water  bugs. 

When  Leaving  Home  for  any  length  of  time  pour 
about  half  a  cupful  of  kerosene  in  the  wash  bowl, 
closet,  laundry  tubs,  sink,  etc.  This  will  prevent 
sewer  gas  or  water  bugs  from  coming  into  the 
house,  and  the  odor  will  disappear  in  a  few  hours. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


338  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  V— CONVENIENCES 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


.13 


THE  LAUNDRY 

and  the  IRONING  BOARD 


.  SECTION  VI. 

Including 
CLEANING  and  STAINS 


A  GOOD  HOME-MADE  LAUNDRY  LIST 

Take  an  ordinary  scratch  pad  and  paste  the  back  of  it  on  the 
right  hand  side  of  a  cardboard,  the  latter  cut  with  an  inch  margin 
above  the  pad  and  a  two-inch  margin  to  left  of  pad. 

Write  on  a  two-inch  slip  of  paper,  preferably  typewrite, 
alphabetically,  the  names  of  all  laundry  articles.  To  avoid  oversight 
of  important  articles  follow  a  printed  laundry  list — or  you  can  cut  up 
and  use  the  printed  list  itself.  Paste  this  on  the  two-inch  margin  to 
left  of  pad.  Obviously  the  pad  must  be  as  long  as  the  list  when 
written  out — and  do  not  have  the  articles  on  the  list  too  close  together. 

Each  week  write  on  pad  the  number  of  out-going  articles, 
opposite  the  names  on  the  list.  Check  them  off  when  returned  and 
tear  the  sheet  off  pad,  leaving  fresh  sheet  for  the  next  week. 

WATER 

The  following  matter  is  taken  from  Cornell  Reading  Course,  Bulletin  Farm  House 
Series  No.  3,  "The  Laundry." 

A  bountiful  supply  of  good  water  for  laundry  purposes  is  an  important  factor  in 
successful  laundering.  Water  is  the  natural  solvent  for  much  of  the  dirt  that  accumulates  on 
clothing;  moreover,  it  acts  as  a  carrier  to  rid  the  clothing  of  all  forms  of  dirt,  both  soluble 
and  insoluble.  Unfortunately,  good  drinking  water  is  not  necessarily  equally  good  for  laun- 
dry purposes,  as  water  may  hold  in  solution  substances  not  hurtful  to  health  but  very  detri- 
mental to  cleaning  purposes.  A  water  good  for  the  laundry  should  be  clean,  soft,  clear,  odor- 
free  from  discoloration,  free  from  iron,  free  from  organic  matter. 

HARD   AND   SOFT   WATER 


The  characteristic  known  as  hardness,  possessed 
by  some  waters,  is  due  to  the  presence  of  lime 
salts.  Hard  water  is  not  the  best  for  laundry  pur- 
poses, as  lime  salts  decompose  the  soap  used  and 
form  in  its  place  an  insoluble  lime  soap,  which 
collects  as  a  curd  on  the  surface  of  the  water. 
Such  soap  decomposition  takes  place  as  long  as 
any    lime    remains    in    the    water    and    the    cleaning 


(detergent)  properties  of  soap  are  not  in  opera- 
tion until  every  bit  of  lime  has  combined  with  soap 
to  form  lime  soap.  By  leaving  minute  particles  of 
lime  soap  in  its  pores,  hard  water  is  said  to  weaken 
a  fabric.  If  the  available  supply  of  water  is  hard, 
then,  the  problem  of  the  housekeeper  is  to  find 
some  means  of  removing  ilme  or  of  reducing  its 
ill  effects. 


339 


340        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


MATERIALS    FOR    SOFTENING    WATER 


Washing  Soda  (sodium  carbonate) — Washing 
soda  is  the  best  alkali  to  soften  water  for  general 
household  use,  for  while  effective  in  its  action,  it 
is  not  so  corrosive  as  to  render  its  handling  diffi- 
cult or  its  use  unduly  harmful,  nor  is  it  expensive. 
It  should  never  be  used  in  its  dry  form,  however, 
for  it  is  an  alkali  sufficiently  strong  to  eat  holes  in 
a  fabric  if  it  is  used  in  full  strength,  and  wherever 
a  particle  of  the  dry  substance  falls  a  strong  solu- 
tion is  formed.  Carelessness  causes  many  of  the 
complaints   against   present-day   laundry   methods. 

Lye    (sodium  hydroxid  or  caustic  soda) Lye  is 

an  alkali  of  far  greater  strength  than  washing  soda; 
one  pound  of  lye  being  equal  to  about  twelve 
pounds  of  washing  soda,  it  should  be  used  with 
just  so  much  the  greater  caution.  It  should  never 
be  used  save  in  solution,  and  as  the  solution  de- 
teriorates very  rapidly  on  exposure  to  air,  if  any 
quantity  is  made  it  should  be  kept  in  bottles  or  jars 
tightly  stoppered  with  rubber  stoppers.  The  com- 
pound formed  by  exposing  lye  to  the  action  of  air 
and  water,  is  washing  soda,  so  there  is  no  advant- 
age in  using  it  after  all.  Lye  is  much  more  diffi- 
cult to  handle,  and  its  action  is  so  much  more 
corrosive  than  is  that  of  other  alkalis  that  it  is  not 
advisable  to  use  it  in  the  home  laundry. 

Borax  (sodium  biborate) — One  of  the  mildest 
alkalis  to  use  in  the  laundry  is  borax.  This  alkali 
is  more  expensive  than  either  lye  or  washing  soda 
and  is  not  so  vigorous  in  its  action;  but  in  some  in- 
stances it  is  greatly  to  be  preferred  to  either  lye  or 
washing  soda.  Washing  soda  and  lye,  unless  they 
are    thoroughly    rinsed    from    clothing,    have    a    ten- 


dency to  cause  yellowing,  particularly  when  starch 
is  used  afterwards.  Borax,  on  the  other  hand,  has 
a  tendency  to  whiten  fabrics  and  is  added  directly 
to  starch,  in  order  to  give  it  good  color  and  to 
increase  its  clearness.  When  colored  fabrics  or 
wools  are  to  be  washed  in  hard  water,  borax  is  one 
of  the  best  alkalis  to  use  for  softening  the  water; 
therefore  it  should  be  on  the  laundry  shelf  for  that 
purpose  if  for  no  other. 

Ammonia  (ammonium  hydroxid) — Ammonia  is 
another  good  alkali  for  softening  water  when  it  is 
not  advisable  to  use  stronger  alkalis.  Ammonia  is 
a  very  volatile  substance,  consequently  it  should 
be  used  only  when  the  laundry  process  is  to  be 
conducted  quickly.  It  is  better  and  cheaper  to 
purchase  the  full-strength  ammonia  from  a  drug- 
gist and  then  dilute  it,  than  to  buy  the  article 
known  as  household  ammonia,  which  is  of  un- 
known strength. 

To  Soften  Water — Water  may  be  softened  by 
any  of  the  following  methods: 

1 .  For  each  gallon  of  water,  use  two  table- 
spoons of  a  solution  made  by  dissolving  one  pound 
of  washing  soda  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water. 
The  solution  should  be  bottled  and  kept  on  hand, 
as  it  is  a  useful   cleansing  agent    (detergent). 

2.  For  each  gallon  of  water  use  one-fourth 
tablespoon  of  lye  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  water. 

3.  For  each  gallon  of  water  use  one  tabelspoon 
of  borax  dissolved  in  one   cup   of  water. 

If  water  is  very  hard,  increase  the  amount  of 
alkali  used. 


ORGANIC   MATTER 


Organic  material  may  be  precipitated  by  the  use 
of  alum  in  the  form  of  an  alum-borax  mixture. 
The  sediment  should  be  allowed  to  settle  and  the 
water  may  then  be  drawn  from  the  top. 

To  Remove  Organic  Matter — For  each  gallon  of 
water  use  one  tablespoon  of  a  mixture  made  up  of 


two-thirds  borax  and  one-third  alum.  If  the  water 
is  rich  in  organic  matter,  use  more  than  one  table- 
spoon of  the  mixture.  When  water  is  very  scarce, 
alum  is  sometimes  used  to  separate  the  dirt  from 
the  water  and  the  water  is  then  filtered  and  used 
again. 


THE  WORK  ON  WASH-DAY 

Before  taking  up  short-cuts  in  washing,  let  us  see  if  we  can  lessen  the  actual 
bulk  of  wash-day.  Table  cloths  can  be  saved  by  frequent  use  of  bleached  crash 
runners  for  breakfast  and  luncheon;  also  they  make  a  desirable  change  in  artistic 
table  appearance.  They  are  smaller  and  easier  to  wash  and  iron  than  heavy  linen 
covers. 

Paper  napkins  and  paper  cloths,  which  come  in  sets,  also  make  a  desirable 
change,  are  cheap,  and  save  laundry.  They  are  especially  suitable  for  informal 
luncheons  and  for  summer.  The  bare  polished  table,  with  a  few  doilies,  may  be 
frequently  used. 

Use  lightweight  knit  union  underwear  instead  of  muslin.  Use  crepe  for 
nightgowns,  petticoats,  house  dresses,  and  children's  dresses  and  boys'  waists; 
they  wash  quickly,  require  no  starch  and  need  not  be  ironed.  Small  children  may 
use  rompers  and  save  petticoats. 

PREPARING  FOR  THE  WASH 

Sort  your  washing  for  different  tubs.  Put  table  linen  and  other  comparatively  clean 
articles  into  one,  the  next  cleanest  into  another,  etc.  Soak  handkerchiefs  in  a  basin  of  salt 
water,  pour  soapy  water  over  them  and  put  them  into  one  of  the  "clean  goods"  tubs.  If 
colds  have  prevailed  in  the  family,  the  handkerchiefs  should  be  put  to  soak  in  a  solution  of 
boric  acid  by  themselves,  and  should  be  separately  washed  and  boiled  for  twenty  minutes. 

Soak  the  clothes  overnight  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  fill  washing  machine  with 
scalding  water,  cut  in  the  soap  and  put  in  the  first  tub  of  clothes.  Run  the  tub  15  minutes; 
the  second  while  you  are  rinsing  and  bluing  the  clothes  from  the  first.  If  you  use  the  scalding 
process  it  is  not  necessary  to  boil  the  clothes  oftener  than  once  monthly.  Washing  with  naph- 
tha soap  will  obviate  boiling  even  that  often.  The  naphtha  soap  should  be  shaved  into  a 
tub  of  lukewarm  water  at  noon  the  day  before.  Put  in  the  first  tub  of  clothes  to  soak,  and  at 
night  time  run  the  washer  with  these,  wring  them  and  put  in  rinsing  water;  put  the  rest  of 
the  white  clothes  into  soak  until  morning. 

In  the  morning  take  out  part  of  the  clothes  and  run  in  washer;  let  the  colored  clothes 
soak  while  you  hang  out  the  white.  By  this  method  you  can  get  the  entire  washing  on  the 
line  early  in  the  morning;  and  breaking  up  the  work  over  the  two  days  does  not  leave  you 
worn  out. 

To  Wash  with  Paraffin  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — Apparatus:  paraffin  wax,  laun- 
dry soap,  soft  water,  clothes  boiler,  saucepan,   laundry  tub  and  wringer. 

Soak  the  clothes  overnight  in  cold  soft  water. 

Shred  Yl  cupful  of  paraffin  and  Yl  pound  bar  of  soap,  and  melt  each  in  1  pint  of 
hot  water. 

Fill  the  boiler  with  soft  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point;  add  the  paraffin  mixture. 

Wring  the  clothes  out  of  the  water  in  which  they  are  soaking,  put  them  in  the  boiler, 
and  boil  Yl  hour. 

Remove  the  clothes  to  a  tub  of  soft,  warm  water,  or  a  washing  machine,  and  rinse 
the  soapsuds  well  out  of  them.  Only  the  very  dirty  parts  need  to  be  rubbed.  This  rinsing 
water  must  be  kept  as  warm  as  possible. 

Rinse  in  clear  cold  water.     Rinse  in  bluing  water. 

(Note) — For  a  washing  of  about  five  boilerfuls,  prepare  twice  the  amount  of  par- 
affin and  soap,  putting  one-half  of  it  in  the  first  boilerful  and  adding  more  to  each  succeed- 
ing boilerful  of  clothes. 

341 


342         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 

GENERAL   DIRECTIONS  FOR   WASHING 

(From  Cornell  Reading  Course,  Farm  House  Series  No.  3,   "The  Laundry") 

Directions  for  Washing — Have  plenty  of  hot  water  before  beginning  the  washing. 
If  possible  the  water  should  be  soft;  if  it  is  not,  soften  it  (see  methods  for  softening  under 
"WATER"). 

Make  a  soap  solution;  use  1   cake  of  soap  to  2  or  3  quarts  of  water. 

Rinse  the  clothes  from  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  removing  as  much  of  the 
dirt  as  possible.  Parts  of  the  clothing  that  are  very  much  soiled  should  be  rubbed  a  little 
and  rinsed  in  fresh  water  before  the  garments  are  put  into  a  tub  or  a  washing  machine.  The 
precaution  of  rinsing  saves  wear  and  tear  on  the  whole  garment. 

Pour  warm  water  into  tub  or  washing  machine;  if  the  water  is  hard,  soften  it  with 
washing-soda  solution  or  borax.  Add  enough  soap  solution  or  soap  to  make  a  good  suds. 
A  tablespoonful  of  turpentine,  kerosene,  or  benzine  may  be  added  to  the  washing  water  as 
well  as  to  the  water  in  which  clothing  has  soaked.  Put  in  clothes  to  be  washed.  Rubbing 
is  essential  for  soiled  garments;  it  may  be  accomplished  in  one  of  two  ways;  by  using  the 
washboard  and  old-fashioned  tub,  or  by  using  a  washing  machine.  It  is  well  to  have  a 
board  for  very  soiled  parts,  such  as  hems  and  edges,  but  the  washing  machine  is  a  great 
improvement  on  the  older  method. 

Whenever  the  water  becomes  dirty,  use  fresh  suds.  Clothes  cannot  be  made  clean 
without  the  use  of  plenty  of  water.  Keep  up  a  good  suds  while  washing,  and  add  hot  water 
from  time  to  time.  If  a  washing  machine  is  used,  do  not  put  enough  water  in  the  machine 
to  float  the  clothes;  if  you  should  they  would  escape  the  mechanical  action  of  the  dasher  and 
would  not  be  sufficiently  rubbed.  Clothes  should  be  wrung  from  the  wash  water  through  the 
wringer.  The  screws  of  the  wringer  should  be  adjusted  to  bring  its  rolls  close  together,  and 
clothing  should  be  folded  so  as  to  give  it  an  even  thickness  in  passing  through  the  wringer; 
for  heavier  garments  loosen  the  screws  of  the  wringer.  Fold  in  buttons  and  hooks  and 
turn  the  wringer  slowly.  "• 

A  second  suds  is  generally  necessary,  though  it  may  be  omitted  if  the  clothing  has 
been  only  slightly  soiled.  Shake  out  clothes  wrung  from  the  first  suds,  look  them  over  for 
soiled  parts,  turn  them  wrong  side  out,  and  drop  them  into  second  suds.  Wash  and  wring 
them  ready  for  boiling. 

Clothes  should  be  clean  before  they  are  boiled,  as  the  boiling  process  is  intended 
not  so  much  to  remove  visible  dirt  as  to  destroy  germs  and  purify  the  clothing  as  well  as 
to  whiten  it.  Boiling  is  omitted  when  a  naphtha  soap  is  used,  as  the  soap  loses  its  effect. in 
very  hot  water;  it  is  asserted  that  boiling  is  not  needed  because  naphtha  itself  is  a  purifier. 
Nevertheless,  at  least  once  a  month,  the  clothing  washed  at  other  times  with  naphtha  soap 
should  be  boiled. 

Fill  the  boiler  half  full  of  cold  water;  if  the  water  is  hard,  soften  it.  Add  enough 
soap  solution  to  make  a  light  suds.  Half  fill  the  boiler  with  clothes,  wrung  and  shaken  out 
from  the  last  suds.  Use  plenty  of  water  and  do  not  put  too  many  clothes  into  the  boiler. 
Bring  the  water  very  gradually  to   the  boiling  point  and  boil   1 0  minutes. 

Kerosene  or  turpentine  is  sometimes  added  to  the  boiling  water  to  counteract  the 
yellow  color  given  clothing  by  the  use  of  the  dark  resin  soaps.  It  is  better  to  avoid  kero- 
sene and  turpentine  at  this  point  if  possible,  as  clothing  treated  by  them  require  very  thor- 
ough rinsing  to  remove  the  odor.  Each  boilerful  of  clothes  should  be  started  with  clean  cold 
water.  Cloths  or  clothes  containing  lampblack  or  machine  oil  may  be  placed  in  the  hot  water 
left  after  the  last  clothes  have  been  wrung  from  it.  Kerosene  or  turpentine  should  then  be 
added,   as  they  are  the  solvents  for  such  dirt. 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— GENERAL  DIRECTIONS,  WASHING  343 


Rinsing  is  an  important  part  of  the  washing  process,  for  if  soap  or  some  of  the 
strong  alkalis  are  left  in  the  cloth  they  may  be  very  detrimental  in  the  bluing  or  starching 
process. 

If  water  is  hard  it  should  be  softened  for  rinsing  with  either  borax  or  ammonia  and 
not  with  washing  soda.  The  rinsing  water  should  be  hot.  The  clothes  should  be  slowly 
lifted  with  a  clean  stick  from  the  boiler  into  a  dishpan,  and  drained  or  wrung  or  shaken 
before  being  put  into  the  rinse  water.  It  is  not  always  practicable  to  use  more  than  one 
rinse  water  before  bluing  the  clothes,  but  better  results  are  obtained  when  the  clothes  are 
rinsed  more  than  once.  With  some  kinds  of  bluing,  the  presence  of  soap  or  alkali  precipi- 
tates the  blue  as  iron  rust.  If  the  starch  used  is  not  pure,  and  any  lye  or  washing  soda  or 
soap  has  been  left  in  the  cloth,  a  yellow  color  is  produced  from  the  starch  impurities  by  the 
action  of  those  alkalis.      Wring  from  the  rinsing  water  and  shake  out  the  garments. 

Bluing — It  is  impossible  to  give  any  rule  for  the  amount  of  bluing  to  use  or  the  depth 
of  color  to  be  decided  upon.  Some  fabrics,  such  as  soft,  loosely-woven  fabrics,  absorb  more 
bluing  than  others.  The  amount  of  bluing  to  be  used  is  a  matter  of  experimentation  by  the 
launderer.  Clothing  should  not  be  allowed  to  stand  in  the  bluing  water,  as  they  might 
become  streaked. 

If  a  ball  bluing  is  used  tie  it  in  a  thick  cloth,  wet,  and  squeeze  it  into  a  bowlful  of 
hot  water.  Use  a  part  of  the  resulting  bluing  solution  for  bluing  the  water.  More  of  the 
bluing  in  the  bowl  should  be  added  to  the  bluing  in  the  tub  from  time  to  time  as  the  cloth- 
ing takes  it  up.  As  some  kinds  of  bluing  are  in  the  form  of  minute  particles,  the  bluing 
water  should  be  stirred  each  time  before  adding  clothes  to  it.  After  they  are  wrung,  un- 
starched clothes  'will  then  be  ready  for  drying. 

Starching — Make  the  starch  according  to  directions.  Starch  those  garments  requir- 
ing thick  starch  first,  as  moisture  from  the  clothing  gradually  thins  the  starch  and  a  medium 
stiff,  medium  thin,  and  thin  starch  gradually  result. 

Stiff   Starch — Collars,    cuffs,    shirt-bosoms. 

Medium  Stiff  Starch — Shirt  waists,  collars  and  cuffs,  coarse  lace  curtains. 

Medium   Thin   Starch — White    petticoats,  duck  skirts,  and  some  dresses. 

Thin  Starch — Skirts  and   dresses  when  a  stiff  finish  is  not  desired;  shirt  waists. 

Clear  Starch — Infants'  dresses,  fine  laces,  curtains,  light-weight  table  linen  when  it  is 
desirable  to  give  it  some  body. 

Raw  Starch — Collars,  cuffs,  shirt-bosoms  when  an  extra  stiffness  is  desired ;  some 
light  curtains. 

The  starch  should  be  thoroughly  worked  into  the  cloth  so  as  to  distribute  it  evenly 
through  the  threads  of  the  fabric.  Such  working  insures  a  smooth,  even  stiffness  and  pre- 
vents starch  spots  in  ironing.  All  garments  starched  with  boiled  starch  should  be  dried 
thoroughly  before  being  dampened.  They  should  be  dampened  several  hours  before  being 
ironed.  If  articles  are  to  be  raw-starched  they  should  be  thoroughly  dried  first.  They  are 
then  dipped  into  the  raw  starch  and  rubbed  as  for  washing,  squeezed  dry,  and  spread  out 
on  a  clean  sheet  or  cloth,  but  not  one  over  the  other.  They  should  cover  only  half  the 
sheet.  The  other  half  of  the  sheet  should  be  folded  over  them.  Then  the  sheet  with  its 
contents  should  be  rolled  tightly  and  stand  for  2  or  3  hours  to  insure  even  distribution  of 
moisture. 

Drying — When  possible  the  process  of  drying  should  accomplish  more  than  the  mere 
removal  of  moisture.  Clothing  should  be  hung  where  it  will  be  freely  exposed  to  the  action 
of  fresh  air  and  sunshine.  Such  exposure  purifies  and  bleaches  at  the  same  time.  In  many 
commercial  laundries  a  chemical  bleach  is  used  to  whiten  clothing  that  is  necessarily  dried 
in  steam  closets,  and  consequently  does  not  have  the  beneficial  bleaching  action  of  sunshine. 


344       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 

The  home  launderer  does  not  often  have  to  consider  the  need  for  commercial  bleaching 
agents. 

The  launderer  should  be  provided  with  a  clothespin  bag,  or,  better  still,  with  a 
clothespin  apron  having  a  deep  pocket,  good  and  wide. 

When  possible,  lines  should  be  taken  down  each  week,  but  when  they  cannot  be 
they  should  be  well  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth  before  hanging  up  clothes.  The  clothespins 
should  be  clean.  Each  article  should  be  turned  wrong  side  out  and  hung  with  the  threads 
of  the  material  straight;  the  garment  should  be  shaped  as  nearly  as  possible  in  its  natural 
shape.  Avoid  hanging  pieces  by  corners,  for  thus  hung  they  will  be  pulled  out  of  shape. 
Fasten  garments  by  their  bands  when  possible.  Table  linen,  bed  linen  and  towels 
should  be  pinned  in  at  least  four  places,  as  it  is  nearly  impossible  to  iron  properly  a  piece 
that  was  improperly  hung.  Careful  hanging  greatly  reduces  the  labor  of  ironing.  When  the 
clothes  are  brought  in  from  the  line  the  clothespins  should  be  put  into  the  apron  or  basket 
kept  for  that  purpose  and   placed   where   they  will  be  kept  clean. 

Starched  pieces  should  not  be  allowed  to  freeze,  and  should  be  removed  from  the 
line  as  soon  as  dry.  Long  hanging  reduces  their  stiffness.  If  flannel  underwear  is  properly 
stretched  and  hung  it  may  be  folded  and  put  away  without  further  treatment. 

Dampening — Clothes  should  be  dampened  some  hours  before  being  ironed,  because 
during  the  interval  between  moistening  and  ironing  the  moisture  becomes  distributed  evenly 
and  does  away  with  the  necessity  of  using  a  superfluous  amount  of  water.  The  dampening 
is  best  done  at  night,  but  only  as  many  articles  should  be  sprinkled  as  can  be  ironed  next 
day,  for  damp  fabrics  will  mildew  if  left  wet  for  a  few  days,  especially  in  hot  weather.  Al- 
though clothes  should  be  well  dampened,  they  should  not  be  drenched.  Very  often  trouble 
in  ironing  starched  pieces  is  owing  to  overwetting.  The  starched  part  is  soaked  and  made 
limp  and  sticky.  A  clean  whisk  broom  kept  for  the  purpose  is  the  best  thing  to  use  for 
sprinkling  clothes.  Some  persons  have  used  a  toy  sprinkling  pot.  There  is,  however,  a 
danger  in  its  use,  for  it  may  rust  and  give  rise  to  rust  spots  on  clothes.  Large  pieces  should 
be  sprinkled  and  folded  separately.  Small  pieces  may  be  sprinkled  and  laid  together  be- 
fore folding.  Care  should  be/taken  to  fold  and  roll  garments  smoothly,  as  this  aids  in  their 
ironing.  The  rolls  of  dampened  pieces  should  be  packed  closely  in  a  basket  lined  'with  a 
clean  cloth  and  covered  with  a  clean  cloth. 

Table  linen  and  other  linen  should  be  made  very  damp,  not  wet.  If  table  linen  is 
sprinkled  with  a  mixture  of  1  part  alcohol  and  4  parts  water,  the  result  after  ironing  will  be 
a  slight  stiffness  resembling  that  of  new  linen. 

If  an  ironing  machine  is  used,  unstarched  pieces  may  be  removed  from  the  line  while 
still  damp  and  ironed  immediately  without  the  preliminary  sprinkling. 

Washing  Colored  Clothing — The  processes  of  dyeing  have  so  improved  that  almost 
all  wash  goods  are  now  considered  to  have  fast  colors.  This  is  particularly  true  of  the  better 
grades  of  fabrics,  in  which  the  dye  seems  to  attach  itself  with  especial  firmness  to  the  fibers 
of  the  cloth.  Though  a  color  may  be  said  to  be  fast,  it  is  only  relatively  fast.  Colored  goods 
require  more  careful  treatment  than  do  white  goods.  The  conditions  that  most  affect  the 
stability  of  colors  in  fabrics  are:  long-continued  action  of  water  and  soap;  strong  alkalis  or 
acids;  strong  sunlight,  which  is  a  powerful  bleaching  agent  and  is  used  frequently  for  bleach- 
ing. 

In  washing  colored  clothing,  the  factors  just  enumerated  should  be  kept  in  mind. 
Colored  clothing  should  not  be  soaked  for  any  length  of  time  unless  its  color  is  known  to  be 
very  stable.  Any  soap  used  in  the  washing  process  should  be  a  mild  soap  in  solution,  or  if 
the  color  of  the  goods  to  be  washed  is  very  delicate  the  soap  solution  should  be  replaced 
by  soap  bark,  bran,  rice  water,  potato  water,  or  cooked-starch  water.  The  washing  process 
should  be  conducted  quickly,   and  in  water  not  very  hot.     After  washing,  colored  garments 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— GENERAL  DIRECTIONS,  WASHING  345 

should  be  turned  inside  out  and  hung  in  a  very  shady  or  dark  place,  and  should  be  taken 
in  as  soon  as  dry.  Fading  is  more  often  owing  to  careless  drying  than  to  any  fault  in  wash- 
ing. Washing  powders  and  strong  alkalis  should  never  be  used  with  colored  clothing.  If 
the  water  needs  softening,  use  borax.  If  starch,  bran,  rice  water,  etc.,  are  substituted  for 
soap,  use  the  mixture  as  if  it  were  soapsuds. 

In  starching  colored  clothes,  rub  the  starch  in  thoroughly  and  wipe  off  any  excess 
of  it;  no  difficulty  will  then  be  experienced  with  white  starch  spots. 

To  Set  Color — Sometimes  a  fabric  shows  a  decided  tendency  to  fade  even  under  the 
best  washing  conditions.  It  is  always  well  if  there  is  any  doubt  about  fading  to  test  a  small 
piece  of  the  cloth  before  washing  it.  If  the  color  fades,  then  an  attempt  should  be  made 
to  set  it.  With  most  colors  the  dyer  uses  chemical  substances  which  cause  a  firmer  union 
between  the  color  and  the  cloth.  Such  substances  are  called  mordants.  The  process  of 
making  a  color  fast  may  sometimes  satisfactorily  be  used  by  the  housekeeper  to  strengthen 
weak  colors.  The  household  mordants  are  brine,  vinegar,  sugar  of  lead,  and  alum,  used  in 
the  following  proportions: 

To  1  gallon  of  water  add  Yl  cupful  mild  vinegar,  or  2  cupfuls  salt,  or  \  tablespoon- 
ful  alum,  or  1    tablespoonful  sugar  of  lead   (poison) . 

Vinegar  is  best  for  pinks.  Small  pieces  of  cloth  should  be  tested  in  each  of  the 
above  solutions  and  a  choice  made  after  the  test.  The  cloth  of  'which  the  color  is  to  be  made 
fast  should  be  left  in  the  mordant  solution  over  night,  and  may  be  left  in  for  several  days 
with  good  results.  It  should  be  thoroughly  dried  before  being  washed.  Even  with  rela- 
tively strong  colors,  soaking  a  fabric  over  night  in  a  brine  solution  before  washing  it  for  the 
first  time  may  render  it  far  less  susceptible  to  fading  influences  than  it  otherwise  would  be. 
The  effect  of  brine,  however,  is  said  not  to  be  lasting.  Colored  goods  are  often  rinsed  in 
a  dilute  salt  solution  just  before  drying  them. 

THE  LAUNDERING  AND  CARE  OF  WOOLENS 

All  waters  which  touch  woolens  should  be  of  the  same  temperature.  There 
are  scientific  reasons  for  this,  not  necessary  to  expound  here.  Woolens  should  not 
be  washed  in  both  hot  and  cold  water ;  nor  should  woolens  ever  be  rubbed.  It  is 
such  treatment  that  causes  shrinkage. 

Strong  alkalies,  soda,  lye,  washing  powders,  should  be  avoided.  If  necessary 
to  soften  the  water,  or  to  cut  grease  or  neutralize  any  acids  used  to  remove  stains, 
use  borax  or  ammonia. 

Woolen  Blankets  are  ruined  if  put  in  tub  and  washed  like  cotton  goods.  Shake  them 
first,  to  remove  all  dust.  Then  look  for  spots  and  mark  same  with  a  few  stitches  of  white 
thread    (colored   thread   might   fade  and   leave  a  mark). 

Measure  the  blankets  and  set  a  pair  of  curtain  stretchers  ready  to  take  them — they 
may  be  stretched  doubled  if  double  blankets. 

Don't  rub  soap  directly  on  them — use  a  soap  solution,  made  by  shaving  a  bar  of 
good,  white  neutral  soap  in  cold  water,  heating  to  boiling  point,  allowing  to  cool,  then  add- 
ing 2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  borax  and    Yl  cupful  of  wood  or  denatured  alcohol. 

Temperature  of  all  waters  used  for  woolens  should  be  about  1  1  0  degrees  F.  Work 
blankets  up  and  down,  squeeze  them  lightly,  but  don't  rub.  Badly  soiled  places  stretch  over 
a  smooth  surface  and  use  a  brush  with  the  soap  solution.  Don't  use  a  wringer,  except  very 
lightly  adjusted,  and  keep  the  blanket  flat,  not  stretched,  pulled  or  crumpled. 

Drying — Don't  let  lie  about  wet.  Don't  wash  but  one  blanket  at  a  time.  Unless 
you  use  frames,  hang  straight  on  a  clean,   light  line;  use  plenty  of  clothespins.      Don't  dry 


346       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 

in  direct  rays  of  the  sun;  it  will  yellow  the  blanket;  select  a  bright  place  in  a  light  wind. 
During  drying,  use  often  a  whisk  broom  with  lengthwise  stroke  to  rub  up  the  nap.  When 
perfectly  dry,  rub  with  a  flannel  cloth  in  a  dry  room  until  blanket  is  light  and  fluffy. 

Colored  Woolens  will  come  out  drab  or  streaked  unless  you  set  the  colors.  For 
red,  light  blue,  tan  and  brown,  soak  about  1  0  minutes  in  a  solution  of  1  ounce  sugar  of  lead 
to  1  gallon  of  water.  For  purple,  green,  mauve  or  blue  (predominating)  soak  in  alum  water, 
1  ounce  alum  to  1  gallon  of  water.  Yellows,  buff,  tans,  you  will  improve  with  1  cupful  of 
strained  coffee  added  to  last  rinsing  water. 

To  Bleach  Blankets  which  have  yellowed,  use  hydrogen  peroxide  diluted  to  about 
an  eighth  of  its  strength,  steeping  the  blankets  over  night. 

Sweaters — To  retain  original  shape,  take  the  important  measurements  before  wet- 
ting, and  stretch  to  these  measurements  while  drying.  Use,  otherwise,  same  method  as  for 
blankets. 

To  Bleach  Sweater — Hang  it  while  still  wet  in  an  upturned  barrel,  stretched  to  its 
proper  measurements.  Burn  a  sulphur  candle  (procurable  at  any  drug  store)  under  the 
barrel.  The  bottom  of  the  barrel,  however,  is  first  knocked  out,  as  well  as  top,  leaving  only 
the  cylinder.  Now  stretch  a  cloth  over  the  barrel  to  keep  the  sulphur  fumes  in;  occasionally 
remove  this  to  shake  out  the  folds  of  the  sweater.  About  an  hour  and  a  half  treatment 
will  suffice  for  perfect  whiteness.     Wash  in  soapy  water  to  remove  sulphur  odor. 

Radiator  Drying  is  not  good.  It  may  steam  woolens;  they  should  dry  slowly.  They 
should  not  be  pressed  with  an  iron  hot  enough  to  make  them  steam  in  the  ironing. 

CORNELL  COURSE  ON  WASHING  WOOLENS 

Washing  Woolens  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — The  action  of  water  and  alkalis 
upon  wool  has  been  thoroughly  studied.  Strong  soaps  should  never  be  used  in  washing 
woolens,  nor  should  soap  be  applied  directly  to  the  garment.  The  soap  should  be  used  in 
solution.  A  great  deal  of  stress  is  laid  upon  having  the  water  used  in  washing  flannels  not 
much  more  than  lukewarm,  for  at  a  lukewarm  temperature  soap  and  water  have  a  less 
detrimental  action  on  wool  than  at  any  other  temperature.  It  is  even  more  important  than 
the  lukewarm  water  to  have  all  the  waters  used  of  the  same  temperature,  in  order  to  avoid 
changes  from  hot  to  cold  water,  or  vice  versa,  as  sudden  changes  in  temperature  cause 
shrinkage. 

Have  two  receptacles  ready  for  washing  flannels.  Pour  into  one  of  them  water  not 
too  hot  for  the  hand  to  bear  comfortably.  Add  enough  soap  solution  made  from  a  neutral 
or  mild  soap  or  a  wool  soap  to  make  a  good  suds.  If  the  water  is  hard,  or  the  clothing  is 
very  much  soiled,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  borax  or  ammonia  for  each  gallon  of  water  used. 
Shake  or  brush  the  garments  free  from  dust,  and  put  them  into  the  water  to  soak  for  1  0  or 
1 5  minutes.  Before  beginning  to  wash  the  flannels,  prepare  a  second  tub  of  water  having 
the  same  temperature  as  that  of  the  first  or  a  slightly  higher  temperature.  Wash  one  gar- 
ment at  a  time  by  drawing  through  the  hands  and  washing  up  and  down  in  the  water;  avoid 
rubbing  if  possible.  Pass  the  garments  from  the  first  to  the  second  water;  the  second  water 
should  be  a  suds  if  the  first  suds  has  not  removed  all  the  soil.  Rinse  free  of  soap  in  sev- 
eral waters;  be  sure  to  keep  the  temperature  constant.  Wring  through  a  loosely  set  wringer. 
Turn  wrong  side  out  and  hang  in  a  warm  place,  but  not  near  a  fire,  as  heat  will  cause  shrink- 
age.     When  nearly  dry,  turn.     When  drying,  shape  by  pulling  and  stretching. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  ascribe  all  the  shrinkage  in  woolen  garments  to  washing.  The 
moisture,  heat,  and  movements  of  the  body  may  cause  a  marked  shrinkage. 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— GENERAL  DIRECTIONS,  WASHING  347 

If  flannels  are  to  be  pressed,  they  should  be  allowed  to  dry  first,  and  should  then  be 
covered  with  a  slightly  dampened  piece  of  cheesecloth  and  ironed  with  a  moderately  hot 
iron.  The  cheesecloth  draws  up  the  fibers  of  the  flannel,  giving  it  the  fluffy  appearance  of 
a  new  garment.  Underwear  and  woolen  stockings  should  be  stretched  into  shape  and 
should  not  be  ironed.  For  very  soiled  garments  special  soap  formula  for  the  purpose  will 
be  useful. 

Blankets  are  washed  in  the  same  way  as  other  woolens,  except  that  because  of 
their  size,  only  two  blankets  or  only  one  pair  of  them  are  washed  at  a  time,  and  fresh  water 
is  used  for  each  pair.  After  wringing,  they  may  be  stretched  and  dried  on  curtain  stretchers. 
If  stretchers  are  not  available,  blankets  should  hang  on  the  line  until  perfectly  dry,  and 
occasionally  the  water  should  be  squeezed  from  the  hanging  ends.  To  press  them,  fold 
them  evenly  and  wrap  them  in  a  sheet.  Keep  them  smooth  and  unwrinkled  and  place  a 
flat  board  over  them.      Weight  heavily  and  let  them  remain  for  several  days. 

WASHING  THE  BED  CLOTHES  OTHER  THAN  BLANKETS 

It  becomes  inevitable  that  heavy  quilts,  pillows,  etc.,  must  from  time  to 
time  be  washed.  As  disagreeable  a  job  as  this  is,  it  is  not  so  formidable  a  task  as 
it  seems,  however,  if  properly  gone  over.  It  requires  time  and  strength,  though, 
and  one  should  set  aside  a  day  for  this.  Select  a  bright  sunny  day  and  hire  a  good 
strong  woman  to  help. 

Blankets  have  been  covered  in  another  article.  (See  Care  of  Woolens.)  Pillows 
ought  to  be  renovated  oftener  than  they  usually  are.  It  is  not  difficult  if  you  put  your  feathers 
into  a  cheesecloth  bag  the  size  of  the  ticking.  The  latter  can  then  be  removed  and  washed 
as  often  as  you  please,  and  the  feathers  can  be  renovated  better  if  in  the  thin  cheesecloth 
bag. 

If,  however,  they  are  in  the  usual  ticking  only,  prepare  good  hot  soapsuds,  made 
strong  with  ammonia  and  borax,  and  put  them  in  to  soak  for  an  hour.  As  the  water  cools 
lift  the  pillows  about,  roll  them  and  toss  and  slap  them  until  the  dirt  is  out  of  the  feathers. 
Don't  crush  or  squeeze  them.  Rinse  in  hot,  soapy  water,  then  in  several  clear  waters,  hang 
in  the  sun,  turn  and  shake  them  as  they  dry.  They  can  be  dried,  if  neecssary,  on  steam 
radiators. 

Down  and  lambs'  down  comfortables  are  washed  in  the  same  way  as  pillows.  Thick 
cotton  filled  comfortables  can  be  washed  so  the  cotton  will  not  form  into  lumps,  if  very  care- 
ful with  them,  especially  if  the  tying  in  them  is  fairly  close.  In  buying  comfortables  choose 
those  which  are  of  fast  colors. 

Put  comfortables  into  warm  suds  and  let  soak.  Squeeze  flat  without  twisting  in 
wringer  and  put  in  a  second  tub  of  warm,  soapy  water;  run  through  a  washing  machine  or 
shift  around  in  water,  lifting  up  and  down  and  slapping;  do  this  in  several  soapy  waters  and 
finally  in  several  clear  warm  waters,  then  squeeze  and  shake  dry  as  possible  and  hang  in  a 
warm  place  in  hot  sun,  shaking  occasionally  to  fluff  the  down.  If  carefully  done  they  come 
out  as  light  as  when  new. 

Silk-covered  comfortables  should  be  sent  to  the  cleaners;  home  washing  will  almost 
certainly  spoil  the  silk. 

HINTS  ON  WOOLEN  AND  SILK  GOODS 

To    Wash    a    Long    White    Shawl — Pour   boiling  thumb  tacks  through  shawl;  pin  sides  evenly,  being 

water  over  soap,  add   cold  water  until  luke  warm.  careful   not   to   stretch.      Pin   another   layer  on   top 

Put  shawl  in,  pat  gently,  then  squeeze,  don't  wring.  of   first   anj    contjnue   to    end    of   shawl   and    ,ay   ;„ 

Repeat  until  shawl  is  clean;  repeat  in  two  or  three  ...  .  .  .  , 

.  ,  .  iii  sun    4l"    toP    layer    is    dry,    then    untold    top    layer; 

warm  waters  without  soap.      Lay  out  a  bath  towel, 

c  i    .«■  1  .Li  i  ui        I  continue   till   all   layers   are   dry.      Brush   out   fringe 

of    several    thicknesses,    smoothly    on    a    table;    lay  '  '  B 

shawl  on  same,  spread  out  one  end  to  natural  width  with   fingers.      The   shawl   will   be   soft,    white    and 

of  shawl  and   pin   to   the   table  with   sharp  pins   or  even,  as  when  new. 


348        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


Shawls,  Sweaters  and  loosely  woven  jackets  lose 
their  shape  when  hung  on  lines  to  dry.  To  pre- 
vent this,  fasten  them  securely  with  safety  pins  to 
a  sheet  stretched  between  two  lines,  or  dry  the 
sweaters  or  jackets  on  a  "form"  if  you  have  one, 
or  tack  them  against  a  sunny  wall  stretched  only 
to  the  extent  you  want  them  to  remain  when   dry. 

To  Dry  a  Sweater  another  way,  hang  it  over  a 
mosquito  netting  hammock,  the  latter  pulled  tight, 
and  the  sweater  spread  out  in  position  wanted  and 
pinned  thereto. 

Crocheted  Articles  of  Wool — Clean  them  in  a" 
pillow  case;  keep  them  in  it  during  the  entire  pro- 
cess of  washing.  Use  abundant  warm  water  and 
soap,  and  clear  warm  water  for  rinsing;  hang  on 
line  still  in  the  pillow  case,  on  a  bright  windy  day. 

New  Stockings — Rinse  them  first  time  in  water 
in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  has  been  put, 
and  they  will  not  fade  so  readily. 

To  Clean  White  Felt — Make  a  soft  paste  of  mag- 
nesia and  milk,  cover  the  felt  thickly,  applying  with 
a  brush,  leave  till  next  day,  then  brush  off  with 
a  clean  hand  brush. 

Black  Felt  such  as  an  old  derby  hat,  clean  with 
household  ammonia  on  a   clean  piece  of  muslin. 

Cleaning  With  Gasoline — For  badly  soiled  ar- 
articles,  make  a  strong  lather  of  white  soap  dis- 
solved by  hot  water  until  it  looks  like  jelly  and 
add  it  to  the  gasoline,  teacupful  to  a  gallon.  Soak 
the  garment  in  this  for  I  5  minutes,  then  rub  where 
necessary  and  wash  between  the  hands;  wring  out 
and  rinse  in  clean  gasoline.  Add  a  little  salt  to 
gasoline  used  for  cleaning  wool  or  silk  and  if  pos- 
sible put  a  piece  of  cloth  under  it,  to  "drive 
through"  to,  and  there  will  be  no  "ring"  where 
cleaned. 

The  gasoline  can  be  saved  for  future  use;  let 
the  dirt  settle,  then  pour  off  the  liquid  and  cork 
tightly.  It  should  be  unnecessary  to  say  that  work 
with  gasoline  should  be  in  the  open  air  and  in  no 
case  near  a  fire. 

White  Kid  or  Satin  Slippers  can  be  sponged  with 
gasoline  and  made  fresh  as  new 

Gasoline  Cleaned  Articles  require  no  ironing. 

To  Soften  Flannels  that  have  become  hard  and 
shrunken,  restore  them  by  soaking  in  gasoline  and 
shaking  till  dry. 

"Dry"  Cleaning  Men's  Clothes — Take  a  soft 
cloth,  dip  it  in  alcohol,  pass  it  lightly  over  a  cake 
of  pure  soap  and  apply  briskly  to  the  goods  till 
cleaned.  If  you  can  put  a  cloth  under  the  goods 
much  of  the  dirt  or  grease  will  be  driven  through 
to  the  cloth  and  less  time  required  than  when  it 
has  to  be  all  transferred  to  the  cleaning  cloth.  If 
the  goods  have  a  lining  which  would  show  stain, 
separate  the  goods  and  lining  in  some  way  to  pre- 
vent  this   "driving   through"    to    the   lining. 


After  cleaning  the  garment,  sponge  it  carefully, 
then  press  it.  The  treatment,  as  well  as  cleaning 
it,  restores  the  nap  and  lustre  as  when  new.  In 
the  case  of  obstinate  grease  spots,  rub  hard  with 
pure  white  soap  lather  and  lukewarm  water,  then 
apply  the  alcohol  and  soap  process  as  above. 

White  Silk — Use  lukewarm  water  and  borax,  for 
washing,  instead  of  soap.  Dry  by  wrapping  a  sheet 
or  blanket  and  iron  while  just  a  bit  damp  but  not 
wet. 

When  washing  white  silk  always  rinse  in  a  warm 
blueing  water  to  keep  from  yellowing.  Many  a  dry 
cleaning  bill  can  be  saved  by  carefully  laundering 
as  above. 

To  make  silk  that  has  been  washed  look  like 
new,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  methylated  spirits  to  a 
pint  of  running  water  and  iron  while  damp. 

Silk  blouses  can  be  made  to  look  like  new  by 
stiffening  with  a  little  gum  arabic  in  the  rinsing 
water.  One  dessert-spoonful  of  boiling  water  and 
then  silk  ironed  while  damp. 

Yellow  Chiffon — Use  gasoline,  plenty  of  it. 
Souse  the  chiffon  in,  shaking  up  and  down  and 
around,  and  if  there  are  spots  upon  it  rub  them 
gently  between  the  hands.  Change  the  gasoline  as 
it  becomes  cloudy  for  fresh.  When  the  chiffon  is 
clean  hang  it  in  the  wind,  pulling  it  into  shape 
now  and  then.  When  you  are  ready  to  put  it  back 
upon  the  dress  lay  between  two  thicknesses  of  fine 
muslin  slightly  dampened  and  press  with  warm  iron 
lightly,  not  to  spoil  the   general  effect. 

Chiffon  Veils — Subject  these  to  a  thorough  wash- 
ing with  soap  and  water.  Prepare  a  bath  of  warm 
water  and  white  soap,  lay  the  veil  in  and  lift  up 
and  down,  squeezing  through  the  hands  until  quite 
clean.  Then  rinse  in  clear  water — warm  water 
if  the  veil  is  white,  and  a  few  drops  of  ammonia 
if  the  veil  is  colored.  To  dry,  pin  it  on  table  or 
bed,  and  iron.  Although  chiffon  irons  perfectly, 
it  is  more  like  new  when  not  ironed,  and  in  the 
case  of  a  dotted  veil  pressing  of  any  kind  is  not 
advised the  dots   will  surely  show  the   impress. 

Net  Veils — For  net  veils  of  every  description 
squeeze  through  alcohol  to  freshen  and  remove 
dust.  Wash  in  gasoline.  Use  sufficient  fluid  to 
cover  the  article.  Squeeze  through  the  hands  sev- 
eral times,  then  rinse  in  clear  gasoline.  This  will 
probably  be  quite  black  when  one  has  finished  if 
the  veil  is  black,  but  when  dry  the  veil  will  be  a 
deep  black  and  the  dots,   if  any,  very  glossy. 

Crepe  de  Chine — After  washing  crepe  de  chine 
or  georgette  crepe  in  warm  water  with  a  mild 
white  soap,  rinse  in  clear  warm  water,  roll  in  a 
Turkish  towel  and  do  not  iron   till  next  day. 

Blue  Serge — To  remove  the  shine  from  a  dark 
blue  serge  sponge  occasionally  with  a  strong  blu- 
ing water,   then   press    (not   iron)    carefully. 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— GENERAL  DIRECTIONS,  WASHING  349 


A  Black  Frock  may  be  freshened  by  sponging 
it  with  alcohol  mixed  with  water  in  the  propor- 
tion of  1  part  alcohol  to  3  of  water.  The  gar- 
ment should  be  sponged  on  the  right  side,  but 
ironed  on   the  wrong. 

CORNELL  COURSE  ON  SILK 
Washing  Silk  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — Silk 
should  be  washed  in  much  the  same  way  as  wool. 
While  it  is  not  so  strongly  affected  by  soaps  and 
alkalies  as  is  wool,  its  gloss  is  destroyed  by  the 
use  of  strong  cleansing  agents.  The  delicacy  of 
the  fiber  makes  hard  rubbing  impossible,  for  it 
breaks  the  fibers  and  destroys  not  only  their  dura- 


bility but  also  their  silkiness.  In  wringing  silk, 
place  it  between  dry  towels  or  heavy  cloths  and 
put  it  through  a  loosely  adjusted  wringer,  iron  it 
on  the  wrong  side  while  still  damp,  with  a  mod- 
erately hot  iron.  Silk  is  very  easily  scorched,  and 
if  the  iron  is  too  hot  the  silk  will  be  stiff.  Push 
the  iron  back  and  forth  with  a  wriggling  motion 
to  give  softness  and  pliability  to  the  silk.  It  is 
often  best  to  iron  silk  under  a  cloth;  to  do  so  gives 
less  body  and  a  softer  finish.  Ribbons,  if  of  good 
quality,  may  be  very  successfully  washed.  To  iron 
them,  cover  them  with  a  dry  cloth  and  move  the 
iron  frequently  back  and  forth  over  the  surface  of 
the  cloth  above  them. 


LINENS    AND    COTTONS 


To  Launder  Table  Linen  (Cornell  Reading 
Course) — Apparatus:  tub,  washboard  or  washing 
machine,  soap,  ironing  table  with  blanket  and 
sheet,  hot  irons,  and  cloth  for  cleaning  irons. 

Washing — Remove  all  stains.  Soak  overnight 
if  possible  in  softened  water.  Wash  in  hot  water, 
using  soap  and  the  board  or  machine.  Boil  or 
scald  fifteen  minutes  in  soapy  water.  Rinse  in  cold 
water.  Rinse  in  cold  bluing  water.  Dry  out  of 
doors  if  possible. 

Note:  For  old  linen  add  I  cupful  of  boiled 
starch  to   each  gallon  of  bluing  water. 

Dampening — Dampen  well.  Roll  up  tightly  and 
let  lie   over  night  if  possible. 

Ironing — General  rules:  Pull  well  into  shape. 
Have  the  irons  very  hot.  Press  heavily.  Iron  un- 
til perfectly  dry.  Ironing  and  folding  a  table  nap- 
kin; place  the  napkin  on  the  table  wrong  side  up 
with  the  name  on  the  upper  right  hand  corner. 
Fold  the  lower  edge  to  within  }/&  inch  of  the  upper 
edge  and  iron.  Fold  the  lower  edge  even  with 
the  upper  edge  and  iron.  Fold  the  left-hand  edge 
to  ■within  }/&  inch  of  the  right-hand  edge  and  iron. 
Turn  over  and  iron  the  remaining  square.  Fold 
the  left  edge  even  with  the  right  hand  edge  and 
iron. 

Ironing  and  folding  a  table  cloth  in  the  screen 
fold  of  four:  Fold  the  cloth  lengthwise,  wrong  side 
out.  Fold  again  lengthwise.  Drop  one  selvage  and 
bring  it  back  to  the  folded  edge  on  the  opposite 
side.  Place  lengthwise  on  the  ironing  table  and  iron 
the  top  quarter.  Open  and  iron  the  middle 
quarters.  Fold  the  middle  quarters  together  and 
iron  the  remaining  quarter. 

Note:  If  the  cloth  is  very  large  or  the  table  very 
narrow,  it  is  better  to  fold  it  in  two,  right  side  out, 
iron  both  sides,  and  refold  in  the  screen  fold. 

Fine  Table  Linens — An  authority  on  fine  laun- 
lering  says  that  hot  water  should  not  be  used  in 
fashing  fine  table  linen  or  embroidered  doilies.  Cold 
•ater,  white  soap  and  borax,   if  not  a  borax  soap, 


should  be  used.  If  a  gloss  is  desired  for  linen  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the  starch  when  making. 

WHITE  LINEN  AND  COTTONS 
Outline  for  Washing  (Cornell  Reading  Course) 
— Put  water  on  to  heat.  Make  soap  solution.  Rinse 
clothes  from  water  in  which  they  have  soaked. 
Wash  clothes  in  'warm  suds  in  the  following  order: 
Table  linen  and  clean  towels;  bed  linen;  body  lin- 
en; handkerchiefs;  soiled  towels  and  cloths;  stock- 
ings. Wash  again  in  clean  suds;  wring.  Boil  in 
clean,  slightly  soapy  water.  Rinse  in  clean,  clear 
water;  wring.  Rinse  in  bluing 'water;  wring.  Starch. 
Hang  to  dry.     Remove  from  line,  dampen,  and  fold. 

COLORED   LINENS   AND   COTTONS 

Colored  Goods — Add  ]/•>  ounce  of  Epsom  salts 
to  2  quarts  of  clear  water  and  you  will  have  a  good 
mixture  for  rinsing  colored  frocks  and  blouses. 

A  little  borax  in  the  water  before  washing  red 
or  red-bordered  goods  will  alone  often  prevent 
their  fading. 

Dark  calicoes  should  be  ironed  on  the  wrong 
side  with  irons  that  are  not  too  hot. 

To  prevent  the  fading  of  ginghams,  calicoes  and 
lawns,  dissolve  5  cents'  worth  of  sugar  of  lead  in 
a  pailful  of  lukewarm  water.  Put  the  goods  in  and 
let  stand  two  or  three  hours.  Wring  out,  dry  and 
press  in  the  usual  way.  The  process  also  shrinks 
the  goods. 

To  Bleach  faded  cotton  wash  in  boiling  cream 
of  tartar  water. 

Cotton   Voiles When    washing    cotton   voiles,    if 

after  they  are  washed  and  dried  they  are  dipped  in 
a  solution  of  gum  arabic  and  water  (  I  teaspoonful 
powdered  gum  arabic  to  1  pint),  rolled  in  a  cloth 
and  ironed  wet,  the  garments  will  look  quite  new. 

Near-Fireproofing  Muslins,  Laces,  etc. — Muslins 
and  laces  may  be  rendered  much  less  inflammable 
by  simply  mixing  with  the  starch  used  in  launder- 
ing an  equal   quantity  of  whiting. 


350       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


CURTAINS,    LACES,    ETC. 


Dyeing  Curtains — An  excellent  dye  for  lace  or 
muslin  curtains:  save  the  tea-remains  from  the  tea- 
pot; keep  the  tea  savings  and  leaves  in  a  covered 
jar,  and  when  you  have  sufficient,  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve  and  add  the  liquid  to  a  pan  of  ordinary 
starch  water  Dip  one  end  of  the  curtains,  and  if 
the  color  is  too  dark  add  more  starch  water.  If 
too  light  add   more   of  the  tea   savings. 

Net  Curtains — To  be  sure  they  will  dry  straight 
put  them  on  the  poles  at  the  window  while  still 
wet,  and  they  will  fall  into  graceful  folds,  as  they 
dry.  Otherwise  dry  on  a  frame  or  pinned  to  a 
wall. 

If  allowed  to  dry  thoroughly  before  starching 
curtains  will  remain   clean   longer. 

To  Wash  Laces White  laces   that  have  become 

discolored  from  perspiration  should  not  be  put  im- 
mediately into  hot  water.  Soak  them  first  in  cold 
water,  rubbing  them  well  with  pure  soap.  If  the 
pan  of  water  is  set  out  in  the  sun  it  will  aid  in  the 
bleaching  process.  Later  rinse  and  squeeze  the 
lace  in  warm  water  and  soap  suds,  rinsing  again 
in  clear  water  very  slightly  blued.  Laces  may  also 
be  bleached  snowy  white  by  basting  them  to  card- 
board, and  setting  out  in  the  sun.  The  laces  must 
be  wet  when  basted  to  the  cardboard.  When 
bleached  and  dry  they  will  need  no  ironing. 

To  Clean  Lace — Salted  flour  or  powdered  starch 
mixed  with  borax  and  rubbed  into  every  thread 
of  the  lace  will  clean  it.  Lay  it  away  with  a  fresh 
supply  of  powder  for  three  days,  then  shake  and 
brush  it  thoroughly  and  you  will  find  it  very  clean 
and  fresh. 

Another  plan  is  to  mix  gasoline  and  powdered 
magnesia  and  rub  this  into  the  lace.  Leave  the  mix- 
ture on  over  night  and  apply  again.  Shake  out 
and  brush  carefully. 

Milk  for  Lace — It  is  well,  when  washing  a  piece 
of  choice  yellow  lace,  to  dip  it  in  milk  before  iron- 
ing. Always  place  a  piece  of  tissue  paper  directly 
over  the  lace,  so  the  warm  iron  will  not  touch  the 
fabric. 

Black    Lace Wash    in    mixture    of    half    vinegar 

and  half  water;  heat  together  until  lukewarm;  wash 
without  soap;  rinse  in  a  similar  solution,  put  in  a 
cloth  and  iron  on  wrong  side  until  dry,  between 
two  thicknesses  of  cloth. 

Washing  Lace  Collars — First  baste  them  on  a 
piece  of  white  cloth;  they  will  not  be  torn  or 
stretched,  and  if  no  starch  is  used  they  will  look 
like   new. 

To  Clean  White  Lace,  without  laundering  it, 
spread  it  smoothly  on  wrapping  paper  and  sprinkle 


it  freely  with  calcined  magnesia,  then  place  another 
piece  of  paper  over  it,  and  put  away  under  a  heavy 
weight  for  several  days.  Dust  off  the  magnesia 
and  the  lace  will  be  found  almost  as  fresh  as  when 
first  purchased. 

Fine  Laces  should  never  be  starched,  they  will 
generally  be  stiff  enough  if  ironed  while  very  damp, 
the  ironing  being  continued  until  they  are  dry. 

To   Clean  Gold  Lace Buy   some    rock   ammonia 

from  a  chemist,  pound  it  finely  and  apply  it  with 
a  piece  of  clean  flannel  to  the  lace,  rubbing  briskly. 
After  a  thorough  brushing  the  lace  will  look  good 
as  new. 

To  Tint  Lace — Wait  until  it  is  dry  after  washing, 
then  dip  it  into  weak  tea.  If  a  little  stiffness  is  de- 
sired a  cube  of  sugar  may  be  added  to  the  tea. 

CORNELL  COURSE  ON  LACES 

Washing  Laces  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — It  is 
often  best  to  dry-clean  fine  laces,  as  they  thicken 
slightly  in  washing.  To  wash  them,  use  a  warm 
neutral  soap-solution  to  which  has  been  added  am- 
monia or  borax.  Squeeze  out  the  dirt  by  pressing 
the  "lace  in  the  hands,  but  do  not  rub  it;  rubbing 
breaks  the  delicate  threads.  A  good  way  to  wash 
fine  lace  is  to  baste  it  to  strips  of  cheesecloth,  being 
careful  to  catch  down  all  its  points.  Put  it  to  soak 
over  night  in  warm  soapy  water  containing  a  little 
borax  or  ammonia.  Wash  it,  by  squeezing,  then 
rinse  it  free  of  soap.  Old  yellow  lace  may  be 
bleached  by  stretching  it,  while  wet,  around  a  bot- 
tle, and  standing  it  in  the  sun,  rewetting  the  lace 
occasionally.  Javelle  water  may  be  used  to  bleach 
lace.  Lace  may  be  stiffened  by  rinsing  in  a  mix- 
ture of  2  tablespoonfuls  of  alcohol  to  1  cupful  of 
water;  by  rinsing  in  borax  water,  2  tablespoonfuls 
to  a  cup;  or  by  using  gum  arabic,  y%  teaspoonful 
to  a  cupful  of  water.  If  a  yellow  color  is  desired, 
dip  the  lace  in  coffee  or  tea. 

Black  lace  should  be  cleaned  by  squeezing  it 
repeatedly  in  a  mixture  of  I  cupful  of  strong  coffee 
and  I  tablespoonful  of  ammonia.  Rinse  in  gum 
arabic  water  made  with  coffee,  to  give  natural  stiff- 
ness. 

Lace  curtains  should  be  washed  with  as  near  an 
approach  to  the  care  given  to  lace  as  is  practi- 
cable. Clear-starch  them,  stretch  them,  and  pin 
them  out  on  sheets,  one  curtain  over  another.  If 
available,  it  is  better  to  use  curtain  stretchers  than 
sheets,  but  if  care  is  taken  to  square  off  the  first 
curtain  and  stretch  it  straight  and  even,  good  re- 
sults may  be  obtained  by  pinning  the  curtains  to 
sheets. 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— GENERAL  DIRECTIONS,  WASHING 


35! 


CLEANING    FURS,    GLOVES,    ETC. 


To  Clean  Furs — Hot  sand  and  sawdust  rubbed 
into  furs  and  then  beaten  out  with  light  rattan 
sticks,  clean  and  make  them  look  like  new.  Use 
clean  sand.  Ermine  and  other  white  furs  treated 
similarly  with  plaster  of  paris  and  corn  starch  will 
be  freshened  and  softened. 

Sponging  Furs Sponge  furs  with  gasoline.      Dry 

in  the  open  air  and  brush  with  hat  brush  until 
smooth.  Or  sponge  freely  with  alcohol,  and  while 
the  fur  is  wet  sift  it  down  to  the  roots  with  all  the 
finely  powdered  fuller's  earth  it  will  hold.  Shut 
up  in  a  box  for  two  days  and  brush  out  the  pow- 
der. 

Soiled  Gloves — To  clean  kid  gloves  when  slightly 
soiled  take  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  French 
chalk.  Put  the  gloves  on  the  hands  and  the  chalk 
into  the  palm  of  one  glove  and  rub  the  hand  and 
fingers  together  as  if  washing  your  hands.  Take 
off  the  gloves  without  shaking  them  and  lay  them 
aside  for  a  night.  Put  them  on  and  clap  the  hands 
or  wipe  the  gloves  with  a  clean  cloth.  Fuller's 
earth  will  do  nearly  as  well. 

White  kid  gloves  can  be  cleaned  on  the  hands 
with  oatmeal  and  benzine  mixture  to  a  paste.  Con- 
tinue rubbing  till  the  paste  drops  off  in  dry  flakes. 

Yellow    Gloves    or    Hose For    gloves    that    have 

turned  yellow  or  hose  yellowed  by  the  feet,  or  white 
hose  that  are  stained,  pour  gasoline  over  till  mois- 
tened, leave  ten  minutes,  then  wash  in  lukewarm 
water  and  plenty  of  white  soap;  rinse  in  cold  water 
to  which  a  teaspoonful  of  gasoline  has  been  added. 

To  Dye  Gloves — White  kid  gloves  can  be  dyed 
tan  by  dipping  them  in  saffron  water  until  the 
desired  shade  is  obtained. 


Black  Gloves — Black  kid  or  suede  gloves  that 
wear  white  at  the  ends,  can  be  made  to  look  like 
new;  mix  a  little  good  black  ink  with  J/2  teaspoon- 
ful of  olive  oil  and  apply  to  the  faded  parts  with 
a  feather.  Let  the  gloves  dry  thoroughly  before 
wearing   them. 

To     Wash     Chamois     Leather     (Cornell     Reading 

Course) Apparatus:     warm     water    and     washing 

soda,  soap,  and  a  clean  towel. 

Dissolve  l/g  cupful  washing  soda  in  2  quarts  of 
lukewarm  water. 

Soak  the  chamois  in  the  soda  water  15  to  60 
minutes,   according  to  dirtiness. 

Lift  the  chamois  into  a  basin  of  warm,  strong 
soapsuds,  and  squeeze  and  work  them  with  the 
hands  until  clean.  Be  careful  not  to  rub  or  wring 
them.  Very  soiled  places  may  be  put  on  a  smooth 
surface  and  brushed  with  a  small  brush. 

Rinse  thoroughly  in  warm,  soft  water.  Press 
as  much  water  out  as  possible  by  pulling  through 
the  hand.  Roll  in  the  towel  and  wring  tightly. 
Stretch  well   in  all  directions  and   hang  to   dry. 

Stretch  and  rub  the  chamois  two  or  three  times 
while  they  are  drying. 

Chamois  Gloves — White  chamois  gloves  after  be- 
ing washed  are  usually  stiff,  and  it  is  difficult  to 
get  them  on  again.  Let  them  become  partially 
dry,  then  fit  them  on  the  hand,  after  which  care- 
fully remove,  keeping  the  gloves  the  shape  of  the 
hands;  let  them  dry  thus  in  the  model  of  the  hand. 

Wring  chamois  out  of  the  soapy  water  without 
rinsing,  and  when  it  dries  it  is  soft  and  serviceable 
instead   of  stiff. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


352        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY.  IRONING  BOARD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


THE  LAUNDRY— MISCELLANEOUS 


Laundry  Container — A  wicker  hamper  is  perhaps  the  ideal  laundry  con- 
tainer, but  it  must  be  kept  clean.  One  enameled  white  looks  so  clean  that  it  is  hard 
to  remember  that  it  may  harbor  impurities  and  germs.  It  must  be  washed  in  hot 
water  occasionally,  and  dried  in  the  sunshine,  and  then  further  refreshed  with  a 
clean  coat  of  enamel. 

Laundry  bags  in  the  different  rooms  can  be  emptied  every  day  into  the 
hamper.  These  bags  should  be  of  a  sort  easily  washed,  and  should  be  washed 
every  couple  of  weeks. 

A  big  white  enameled  tin  box  is  an  admirable  holder  for  laundry  from  a 
nursery  or  sick  room.  This  should  be  emptied,  scalded  and  aired  every  day — 
the  laundry  being  put  into  boiling  water  or  a  disinfecting  fluid. 


SOAP 


Soap  (Cornell  Reading  Course "The  Laun- 
dry")— There  is  much  difference  of  opinion  as  to 
which  kind  of  lye  produces  the  better  soap.  The 
question  is  settled  "practically"  in  favor  of  sodium 
lye,  for  it  can  be  produced  at  a  smaller  cost.  It 
is  safe  to  say  that  much  of  the  soap  on  the  market 
is  made  from  sodium  lye. 

When  lye  is  mixed  with  a  fat  it  breaks  the  fat 
up  into  fatty  acids  and  glycerin,  of  which  it  is  com- 
posed. The  lye  unites  with  the  fatty  acids  to  form 
a  new  compound,  called  soap,  and  glycerin  re- 
mains. This  is  the  process  of  soap-making  called 
saponification.  The  nature  of  the  soap  formed  will 
depend,  first,  on  the  nature  of  the  fats  used, 
whether  they  are  hard  or  soft,  clean  or  rancid; 
second,  on  the  kind  of  alkali  used,  whether  potash 
lye  or  soda  lye;  third,  on  the  nature  and  amount 
of  impurities  in  both  fat  and  alkali;  fourth,  on  the 
completeness  of  the  process  of  soap-making  or  sa- 
ponification. If  the  operation  of  soap-making  is 
not  properly  conducted,  the  reaction  between  the 
fat  and  the  lye  is  incomplete,  and  a  soap  is  pro- 
duced that  contains  free  fat  and  an  undue  amount 
of  free  alkali.  Such  soap  is  greasy,  unduly  active, 
and  a  poor  cleansing  agent. 

The  Adulteration  of  Soap — It  is  not  uncommon 
to  find  some  foreign,  insoluble  substances  in  soap, 
which  have  been  added  merely  to  increase  its 
weight  and  bulk.  In  cheap  soaps  resin  is  often 
added  as  an  adulterant.  It  is  rather  difficult  to  say 
when  resin  may  be  considered  an  adulterant,  for 
in  small  quantities  it  is  of  value  in  laundry  soaps 
because  it  whitens  the  clothing.  Resin  gives  a 
brown  color  to  soap,  therefore  a  dark  brown  soap 
may  be  safely  rejected  as  containing  an  excess  of 
resin. 

The  best  advice  to  give  the  housekeeper  is:  Se- 
lect soap  manufactured  by  a  reliable  firm  and  give 
it  a  trial.  It  is  not  economy  to  use  a  cheap,  poorly 
made    soap    in    the    laundry.       A    common    mistake 


is  to  think  that  the  use  of  one  kind  of  soap  will 
prove  satisfactory  for  all  purposes;  this  common 
belief  possibly  accounts  for  much  of  the  dissatis- 
faction that  exists  regarding  the  various  soaps  on 
the  market.  Every  laundry  should  contain  three 
grades  of  soap,  mild,  medium,  strong.  A  mild  soap 
should  always  be  used  in  washing  flannels,  woolen 
goods,  or  fabrics  either  frail  or  delicate  in  color. 
A  medium  soap  should  be  used  for  the  more  dur- 
able colored  goods.  A  strong  soap  is  best  for  most 
white   goods,   both  cotton   and   linen. 

Soap  Is  Antiseptic — Aside  from  its  use  in  remov- 
ing dirt,  soap  has  antiseptic  properties.  It  is  not 
safe  to  depend  on  it  as  the  only  disinfectant  in 
cases  of  contagious  diseases,  but  it  is  a  valuable 
purifier   for    the   ordinary    household   washing. 

Home-Made    Soap A    question    often    arises    as 

to  the  advisability  of  using  kitchen  waste  fats  in 
making  home-made  soap.  While  some  housekeep- 
ers may  find  such  use  an  economy,  the  fact  re- 
mains that  home-made  soaps  are  generally  poorly 
made  and  of  inferior  quality. 

Washing  Powders — Something  should  be  said  of 
washing  powders.  They  are  mixtures  of  soap  and 
some  alkali,  such  as  lye,  washing  soda,  and  borax, 
and  may  have  incorporated  with  them  some  one 
or  more  of  the  substances  of  the  nature  of  turpen- 
tine, paraffin,  Fuller's  earth.  In  the  case  of  the 
poorer  powders  a  "filler"  is  used;  that  is,  a  sub- 
stance to  give  weight  to  the  powder  and  very  prop- 
erly considered  an  adulterant.  The  best  powders 
contain  large  amounts  of  soap  and  only  small 
amounts  of  alkali.  A  report  is  made,  however,  of 
one  of  the  poorer  varieties  of  washing  powder  con- 
taining only  1 0  per  cent  of  soap.  There  may  be 
occasions  when  washing  powder  is  desirable,  but 
indiscriminate  use  of  these  strong  cleansing  agents 
is  inadvisable  and  should  not  be  generally  indulged 
in. 


353 


354        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


SOAP  FORMULAS  AND  SUBSTITUTES 


Home-Made  Soap — Take  1  pound  can  lye  dis- 
solved in  3  pints  cold  water,  5  pounds  fat  melted, 
1  Yl  tablespoonfuls  borax  and   Yl   cupful  ammonia. 

When  lye  mixture  has  cooled  add  it  to  fat,  stir 
until  as  thick  as  honey,  pour  into  wooden  or  paste- 
board boxes  lined  with  oiled  or  waxed  paper,  set 
away  to  harden. 

Soap  Bark — One  pound  soap  bark  equals  2 
pounds  soft  soap.     Use  in  place  of  soap. 

Bran — Take  I  cupful  bran,  1  quart  water.  Boil 
half  hour.  Strain,  boil  bran  in  a  second  quart  of 
water  Yl  hour.  When  needed,  reduce  with  warm 
water. 

Potato  Water1 — Grate  2  large-sized  potatoes  into 
1  pint  clean,  clear,  soft  water.  Strain  into  1  gal- 
lon water,   let  liquid   settle.      Pour  off  and  use. 

Soap  Solution  for  Colored  Goods — One-quarter 
pound  mild  or  medium  soap  to   1    gallon  of  water. 

Soap  Solution,  Ordinary  Purposes — One  bar  of 
ordinary  washing  soap,  2  to  3  quarts  of  water; 
shave  soap  and  put  into  saucepan  with  cold  water. 
Heat  gradually  until  soap  is  dissolved  (about  I 
hour). 

Soap  Solution  for  Soaking  Clothes — One  bar  of 
ordinary  soap,  3  gallons  of  water,  Yl  to  '  table- 
spoonful  turpentine,   I   to  3  tablespoonfuls  ammonia. 

Soap  Solution,  Much  Soiled  Woolens  and  Deli- 
cate Colors — Half  a  pound  of  very  mild  or  neutral 
soap,   Ya  pound  borax,  3  quarts  of  water. 

Soap    Jelly    with   Turpentine — One    bar    soap,     I 


quart  water,    1    teaspoonful  turpentine  or  kerosene. 

For  Washing  Delicate  Fabrics  and  colors,  a 
liquid  may  be  made  from  laundry  starch,  grated 
potatoes,  rice,  flour,  etc.  The  water  in  which  rice 
has  boiled  may  be  saved  and  utilized  for  the  same 
purpose.  The  cleansing  liquid  after  cooking  should 
be  as  thick  as  cream,  and  should  be  diluted  from 
I  to  4  times,  according  to  the  amount  of  dirt  in 
the  clothing.  Rinse  clothing  in  a  more  dilute  solu- 
tion, which  may  be  blued  for  white  clothes. 

A  Good  Laundry  Soap — Five  pounds  good,  clean 
grease  free  from  all  water,  I  can  potash  or  lye,  Ya 
cupful  kerosene,  Ya  cupful  ammonia,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls powdered  borax,  1 0  cents'  worth  oil  of  sassa- 
fras. Dissolve  the  potash  in  5  cupfuls  of  cold 
water  thoroughly:  melt  the  grease  and  strain 
through  an  old  stocking  into  the  potash,  stirring 
all  the  time,  mixing  the  kerosene,  ammonia  and 
borax  together,  and  then  add  the  oil  of  sassafras. 
Have  a  deep  pan  lined  with  brown  paper  and  pour 
in  the  soap;  when  set  mark  off  in  squares  and  put 
away  to  harden.     Will  make  30  cakes. 

Soap  Improves  with  keeping,  so  it  should  always 
be  bought  in  large  quantities.  Before  storing  it, 
however,  it  is  ■well  to  cut  the  bars  into  convenient 
pieces,  for  this  is  most  easily  done  when  it  is  soft. 
The  cutting  may  be  done  with  a  piece  of  string  or 
wire  more   easily  than  with  a   knife. 

Brown  Soaps  usually  contain  resin  and  soda 
and  are  injurious  to  colored  clothes;  resin  is  in- 
jurious to  flannel  and  woolens;  neither  should  be 
washed  with  such  soap. 


STARCH,  STARCH  SUBSTITUTES,  ACCESSORIES 


Starch,  Substitutes,  Accessories  (Cornell  Read- 
ing Course) — Directions  for  using:  In  making 
starch  a  naturally  soft  water  is  greatly  to  be  de- 
sired, but  if  the  water  furnished  is  hard  it  should 
be  softened  with  borax,  not  with  washing  soda  or 
lye,  since  the  latter  tend  to  produce  a  yellow  color 
with  starch. 

One-quarter  cupful  wheat  starch  to  I  quart 
water   gives   flexible,    light,    durable   starch. 

One-quarter  cupful  cornstarch  to  1  quart  water 
gives  moderate  body  stiffness. 

One-half  cupful  wheat  starch  to  I  quart  water 
gives  flexible,   firm  finish. 

One-half  cupful  cornstarch  to  1  quart  water 
gives  stiff  body  finish. 

A  mixture  of  the  two  starches  may  be  varied, 
to  produce  any  desired  result. 

Directions  for  Cooking  Starch — Starch  should 
first  be  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water  and  then 
stirred  slowly  into  boiling  water  and  cooked  in 
accordance  with  the  following  directions: 

If  wheat  starch  is  used,  cook  slowly  at  least  25 
or   30   minutes. 


If  cornstarch  is  used,  cook  slowly  I  5  or  20  min- 
utes. 

If  a  mixture  of  wheat  starch  and  cornstarch  is 
used,  the  wheat  starch  should  be  added  first  and 
cooked  1 5  minutes.  The  cornstarch  should  then 
be  added  and  the  mixture  cooked  1 5  minutes 
longer.  Stir  mixture  frequently,  to  prevent  stick- 
ing and  formation  of  a  skin. 

Thorough  cooking  of  starch  is  very  desirable  in 
laundry  practice,  for  it  increases  the  penetrability 
of  the  starch  and  decreases  its  tendency  to  stick 
to  the  iron.  If  borax,  lard,  butter,  kerosene,  or 
other  like  substance  is  used  it  should  be  cooked 
with  the  starch,  to  insure  thorough  mixing. 

Thick  Starch — One-half  cupful  starch,  mixed 
with  Yl  cupful  cold  water,  1  quart  boiling  water, 
Yl  to  1  level  tablespoonful  borax,  Ya  level  table- 
spoonful  lard  or  butter  or  kerosene  or  turpentine, 
or  '/^-inch  square  wax  or  paraffin.  Mix  and  cook 
as  directed  under  directions  for  cooking  starch. 

Thin  Starch One-half  cupful  starch,  mixed  with 

Yl   cupful  cold  water,   3  quarts  boiling  water;  other 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— MATERIALS 


355 


ingredients    same    as    for    thick    starch;    mix,    cook 
as  directed. 

Clear  Starch — Dilute  '/£  cupful  thick  starch  with 
1    quart  hot  water. 

Clear    starch    is    used    for    thin    muslins,    infants 
dresses,  etc. 

Raw  Starch — Same  proportions  as  for  thick 
starch;  use  borax,  but  omit  fatty  substances;  stir 
thoroughly  before  using. 

Raw  starch  is  often  used  with  very  thick  or  very 
thin  goods,  to  increase  their  stiffness.  A  fabric 
will  take  up  a  greater  amount  of  starch  in  the  raw 
form  than  in  the  cooked  form.  The  desired  stiff- 
ness is  produced  by  the  cooking  given  the  raw 
starch  by  the  heat  of  the  iron.  The  difficulty  of 
ironing  is  increased  by  using  raw  starch,  for  unless 
the  ironer  is  skillful  the  starch  cooks  on  the  iron 
and  starch  specks  are  then  produced  in  the  clothes. 
Moreover,  raw  starch  gives  a  less  durable  finish 
than  does  cooked  starch. 

Rice  Starch — One-quarter  cupful  of  rice  and  1 
quart  boiling  water.  Wash  rice,  cook  in  water 
until  very  soft.  As  water  evaporates,  add  more  to 
keep  quantity  up  to  I  quart.  When  cooked  add 
another  quart  boiling  water.  Strain,  without  squeez- 
ing,     through     double      thickness      cheesecloth     or 


through  flannel.  Use  while  hot.  The  most  satis- 
factory starch  for  delicate  fabrics  Is  rice  starch, 
and  it  may  be  used  in  place  of  clear  starch. 

Glue  for  Stiffening  Dark  Clothes — Twelve  ounces 
dark  glue,  I  quart  water.  Boil  together  until  glue 
is  dissolved,  cool  somewhat.  Dip  the  garment  to 
be  stiffened  into  glue  and  wipe  off  excess  of  glue 
with  piece  of  black  cheesecloth,  sateen  or  calico- 
After  sprinkling  roll  garment  in  black  cloth  and 
iron  on  ironing  board  covered  with  black  cloth. 
Any  glue  left  over  may  be  saved  and  used  again. 

To  Increase  Stiffness — Partly  dry  garment  be- 
fore starching.  Add  1  tablespoonful  powdered 
gum  arabic  reduced  to  liquid  in  Yl  cupful  boiling 
water,  to  the  stiff  starch  mixture.  Or  use  borax. 
Or  add  a  small  amount  of  glue  to  starch  mixture. 
Dry  quickly. 

Gum  Arabic  as  a  Starch  Substitute — Four  table- 
spoonfuls  pulverized  gum  arabic,  I  pint  cold  water, 
3  tablespoonfuls  alcohol.  Put  water  and  gum  ara- 
bic in  saucepan  and  set  into  saucepan  containing 
boiling  water.  When  dissolved  strain  through 
cheesecloth,  cool,  add  alcohol,  pour  into  a  bottle, 
cork,  set  away  for  use.  The  alcohol  acts  as  a  pre- 
servative and  the  mixture  may  be  kept  for  any 
length   of  time. 


BLUING  AND  MISCELLANIES 


Bluing  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — White  fab- 
rics have  naturally  a  creamy  tint,  which  may  be 
deepened  to  an  unpleasant  pale  yellow  by  careless 
washing,  by  insufficient  rinsing,  or  by  lack  of  ex- 
posure to  the  bleaching  influence  of  sunlight  and 
fresh  air.  Bluing  is  used  to  hide  the  yellow  color, 
because  blue  and  yellow  are  complementary  col- 
ors, and  when  used  together  in  proper  proportions 
give  the  effect  of  whiteness.  Bluing  is  unwarrant- 
ably used  to  hide  a  yellowness  which  comes  from 
careless   washing. 

No  one  kind  of  bluing  may  be  recommended  to 
the  housekeeper.  She  must  experiment  for  herself, 
choose  one  good  variety,  and  learn  to  use  that  one 
properly. 

Sufficient  bluing  should  be  used  to  make  a  little 
of  the  bluing  water  taken  up  in  the  cup  of  the  hand 
show  a  pale  sky-blue  color.  More  than  that  amount 
of  bluing  should  not  be  needed.  It  is  always  best 
to  make  a  small  amount  of  strong  bluing  in  a  bowl 
of  water,  then  draw  from  it  to  color  the  water  in 
the  tub. 

Blue To    prevent    blue    from    streaking    clothes 

mix   I   dessert-spoonful  of  soda  in  the  bluing  water. 

Marking  Linen To  mark  fine  linen  with  indel- 
ible ink,  without  blurring  or  spreading,  first  starch 
and  iron  the  goods  smoothly.  The  writing  may 
then  be  made  small  and  neat  and  will  remain  clear- 
cut  and  distinct. 


To     Hang     Skirts — The     right     way — especially 

pique,    cotton   or  woolen   skirts is   to  pin   them   to 

the  line  by  the  waistband  so  that  they  will  hang 
straight  down.  If  pinned  at  the  top  they  will 
shrink  evenly  all  around  instead  of  sagging,  as  they 
too  often  do  when  pinned  by  the  hem. 

Bleaching  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — In  former 
times,  dependence  was  placed  on  sunshine,  fresh 
air  and  a  greensward  for  bleaching  all  manufac- 
tured cottons  and  linens.  Such  dependence  on 
natural  agents  has  been  obviated  by  the  ability  to 
procure  similar  results  from  the  use  of  chemicals. 

In  the  home  laundry,  we  still  use  natural  agents 
to  whiten  and  purify  household  linen.  That  is  the 
greatest  advantage  which  the  home  laundry  has 
over  the  commercial  laundry;  in  the  latter,  in  a 
majority  of  cases,  clothes  are  dried  in  steam  clos- 
ets, and  some  chemical  must  replace  the  sun's  rays 
to  bleach  a  garment  left  yellow  by  washing.  The 
action  of  the  sun  and  air  is  not  merely  to  bleach 
but  to  disinfect,  and  clothes  thus  dried  have  a  fresh- 
ness and  sweetness  that  cannot  be  duplicated  by 
any    other    method. 

Occasionally,  even  in  the  household,  it  may  be 
necessary  to  supplement  the  natural  bleaching 
process  by  the  use  of  chemicals.  If  a  garment  has 
yellowed  by  age  or  by  being  packed  away  with 
starch  in  it,  it  may  be  expedient  to  use  a  chemical 
bleach. 


356         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


The  best  bleach  to  use  is  javelle  water,  which 
should  be  made  as  follows: 

Javelle  Water — One  pound  washing  soda,  Yl 
pound  chlorid  of  lime,  1  quart  boiling  water,  2 
quarts  cold  water.  Put  soda  in  granite  pan,  add 
boiling  water  and  stir  until  dissolved;  let  cool. 
Dissolve  chlorid  of  lime  in  cold  water;  let  settle  and 
pour  the  clear  liquid  into  the  soda;  let  settle.  Pour 
off  clear  liquid,  bottle  and  put  away  in  dark  place. 

Use,  mixed  with  equal  parts  or  more  of  water, 
and  do  not  let  the  garments  stay  in  over  Yl  hour. 
Rinse  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  and  lastly  in 
dilute  ammonia  water. 

Moisture  is  necessary  if  clothes  are  to  be 
bleached  by  the  action  of  the  sun.  After  a  gar- 
ment dries,  it  should  be  made  wet  again  and  hung 
out.  It  may  be  necessary  to  repeat  the  wetting 
process  a  number  of  times  before  the  yellow  tinge 
fades  and  yields.  It  is  said  that  clothes  are  whit- 
ened if  they  are  allowed  to  freeze  out  of  doors  on 
the  line.  The  reason  given  for  the  bleaching 
action  is  that  freezing  causes  the  clothes  to  retain 
moisture,  hence  the  time  of  their  bleaching  is  pro- 
longed. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


To  Save  Hands — A  little  vinegar  placed  in  the 
rinsing  water  on  washing  day  will  prevent  the 
hands   from  becoming   rough   and   chapped. 


To  Set  Colors — Green,  blue,  lavender,  aniline 
red,  purple  and  pink  should  be  soaked  in  alum 
water,  2  ounces  to  a  tub.  Black,  gray  and  dark 
blue  should  soak  in  strong  salted  water. 

To  Clean  a  Raincoat — Use  soap  and  water  and 
not  gasoline,  as  the  latter  will  injure  the  rubber 
in  the  fabric.  Lay  out  on  a  flat  surface  and  scrub 
lightly  with  soap  and  water.  Do  not  wring.  Put 
on  a  coat-hanger  and  hang  to  dry. 

Shiny  Skirt — Turpentine  is  a  ready  remedy  for 
removing  the  shine  from  a  dark  skirt.  Rub  the 
affected  parts  with  a  small  piece  of  flannel  dipped 
in  the  turpentine  and  hang  the  garment  in  the  open 
air  to  remove  the  odor  of  the  turpentine. 

Paraffin  in  Starch — To  secure  smoothness  and 
glossiness  when  ironing  starched  pieces  stir  the 
starch  three  or  four  times  while  boiling  and  just 
ready  to  remove  with  a  paraffin  candle. 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— MISCELLANIES 


357 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


358        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


THE  IRONING  BOARD 

Women  are  more  and  more  sensible  each  generation  about  cutting  down 
on  unnecessary  work;  one  of  the  first  places  of  which  this  is  true  is  the  laundry. 
They  do  not  iron  everything,  as  their  grandmothers  did,  perspiring  over  a  hot  stove 
all  day.  They  have  found  that  an  hour  or  two  in  the  early  mornings  of  two  days 
"pays  better"  whether  done  by  themselves  or  by  a  maid ;  and  where  they  have  elec- 
tricity they  use  the  modern  electric  iron  and  take  the  work  calmly  and  cool. 

Hosiery,  knit  underwear,  rough  towels,  many  other  articles,  and  even 
sheets,  may  just  as  well  be  laid  away  without  the  ironing  process.  By  sensible 
hanging  at  the  line,  taking  down  as  well  as  putting  up,  such  garments  may  be  left 
smooth  enough  for  the  nature  of  their  use.  If  such  pieces  can  be  hung  up  without 
wringing,  just  a  little  of  the  water  squeezed  or  pressed  out,  they  do  not  shrink  so 
readily  and  are  less  likely  to  need  the  iron.  Cotton  crepes  and  other  goods  that  are 
not  to  be  ironed  will  look  better  if  hung  up  dripping  wet.  Crepe  dresses  and 
sweaters  are  best  ironed  by  slipping  over  a  coat-hanger  to  dry  in  shape.  And  many 
things  besides  lace  curtains — including  scrim  and  muslin  curtains,  by  the  way — are 
best  dried  on  a  curtain  stretcher  without  ironing. 

Table  linen,  however,  will  bear  no  subterfuge.  It  must  have  a  piping  hot 
iron  and  the  linen  must  be  quite  damp. 

With  napkins,  it  is  suggested  that  they  all  be  ironed  before  folding,  as  it 
gives  them  a  chance  to  thoroughly  dry  before  folding,  and  saves  time  and  labor;  but 
the  final  effect  is  not  so  perfect  as  if  finished  one  at  a  time  and  folded  as  ironed, 
with  the  iron  run  over  each  fold  as  made. 

Linen  and  corded  goods  must  never  be  ironed  on  the  bias,  as  it  will  leave 
them  out  of  shape.     Iron  lengthwise  or  crossways  always. 

CORNELL  COURSE  ON  IRONING 

Ironing  (Cornell  Reading  Course) — While  a  knowledge  of  conditions  aids  greatly 
in  ironing,  as  in  other  operations,  experience  and  skill  are  necessary  to  accomplish  good 
results.  Ease  of  ironing  and  the  quality  of  the  product  depend  on  the  skill  of  the  operator,  or 
the  care  that  has  been  used  in  starching,  drying,  folding  and  sprinkling  the  clothes  to  be 
ironed,  and  on  the  kind  and  condition  of  the  irons.  If  the  garments  have  been  poorly  and 
carelessly  starched,  the  work  of  ironing  is  greatly  increased.  Starchy  lumps  cook  on  the 
iron  and  damage  its  smoothness,  even  when  the  lumps  are  immediately  removed.  The  rea- 
son for  allowing  clothes  to  stand  over  night  after  sprinkling  is  to  give  them  an  even  damp- 
ness that  makes  ironing  easy  and  successful.  If  starched  goods  have  been  overdampened 
the  starch  is  brought  to  the  surface,  and  a  result  is  produced  similar  to  that  of  careless  starch- 
ing. If  linen  is  too  dry  it  cannot  be  made  smooth  and  free  from  wrinkles.  If  it  is  too  wet 
the  process  of  ironing  is  laborious. 

It  is  said  that  irons  that  are  to  be  used  for  starched  garments  should  not  be  polished 
by  rubbing  them  on  salt  or  emery  paper.  A  better  method  is  to  procure  a  good  yellow  pine 
board,  free  from  all  sand  and  dirt,  and  rub  it  with  a  hot  iron  until  a  hard  coat  of  burned 
resin  is  produced.  The  board  may  be  used  for  polishing  the  iron.  The  iron  should  occasion- 
ally be  wiped  with  a  piece  of  wax  or  paraffin  and  then  with  a  clean  cloth. 

Have  ready  and  at  hand:  a  flat,  firm,  unwarped  ironing  board  or  table,  tightly  cov- 
ered with  a  blanket  and  clean  sheet,  securely  fastened  underneath;  clean  irons;  an  iron  stand, 
which  may  well  consist  of  a  clean  brick;  two  pieces  of  old  cloth  for  cleaning  irons;  a  piece  of 

359 


360     THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 

paper  folded  several  times  for  testing  irons;  a  piece  of  beeswax  or  paraffin  tied  in  a  cloth, 
for  keeping  irons  smooth;  a  bowl  of  water  and  a  clean  cloth  for  moistening  parts  dried  by 
exposure  to  air.  Spread  a  large  paper  or  place  a  blanket  under  the  ironing  board  to  receive 
the  clothes  while  they  are  being  ironed. 

For  ordinary  ironing  a  good,  firm  surface  is  desirable.  A  thin  woolen  blanket  and 
an  outside  linen  cover  are  sufficient.  For  embroideries  or  wool  a  thick  covering  is  better,  as 
the  fabric  should  sink  into  a  soft  foundation  to  bring  out  the  pattern  in  one  case  and  to  give 
a  soft  finish  in  the  other. 

The    following    simple    rules    for    ironing  may  be  followed : 

Iron  first  that  part  of  the  garment  which  will  be  least  mussed  by  further  handling, 
or  in  which  a  little  wrinkling  will  not  seriously  interfere  with  good  results. 

If  the  garment  is  trimmed,  iron  laces  and  embroideries  first,  as  they  dry  out  quickly 
because  of  their  porous  nature. 

Leave  as  much  of  a  garment  folded  as  possible,  to  keep  it  moist.  Sometimes  it  may 
be  convenient  to  lay  a  piece  of  dampened  cheesecloth  over  any  unironed  part  to  keep  it 
moist. 

Silk  Waists — Iron  on  wrong  side  while  still  damp. 

Embroideries — Iron  on  wrong  side  on  soft  foundation,  to  allow  design  to  stand  out. 

Laces — Lay  on  piece  of  flannel  covered  with  a  piece  of  cheesecloth.     Iron  on  wrong 

side  and  pull  out  points  with  tip  of  iron.     Lace  should  be  stretched  and  pinned  out  on  a  hard 

surface.      Pull  out  at  each  point  and  catch  down  with  a  pin;  or  stretch  and  roll  on  a  bottle. 

Flannels — Iron  after  laying  a  dampened  cheesecloth  over  them.  If  they  are  not 
covered  with  a  damp  cloth,  iron  on  wrong  side;  have  the  iron  only  moderately  hot. 

Colored  Garments — Iron  on  wrong  side,  to  prevent  fading;  do  not  have  irons  too 
hot. 

Silk  Garments — Iron  on  wrong  side,  to  prevent  shininess. 

After  Ironing  each  article  should  be  hung  on  a  frame  or  clotheshorse  to  dry  and  air 
before  it  is  put  away;  if  hung  in  a  poorly  ventilated  room  the  clothes  will  have  a  bad  odor. 

Sprinkling  may  not  be  necessary  when  an  ironing  machine  is  used  for  ironing,  if  the 
operator  will  remove  the  clothes  from  the  line  at  the  right  time,  that  is,  while  they  are  still 
damp.  The  process  can  be  carried  through  so  quickly  that  it  is  unnecessary  to  keep  one 
garment  damp  while  the  other  is  being  ironed. 


IRONS    AND    OTHER    UTENSILS 


Irons    (Cornell  Reading   Course) A   number   of 

irons  are  now  on  the  market  for  summer  use  when 
it  is  not  desirable  to  have  sufficient  fire  in  the 
range  to  heat  the  irons.  Some  of  these  are:  elec- 
tric irons,  gas  irons,  and,  most  practical  of  all  for 
the   country  home,   denatured-alcohol  irons. 

For  general  laundry  purposes  one  size  of  the 
ordinary  sadiron  is  sufficient,  but  it  is  advisable  to 
put  several  irons  into  a  well-equipped  laundry,  to 
use  for  the  various  kinds  of  work  to  be  done. 
Among  them  should  be  heavy,  medium-heavy,  and 
small  pointed  irons,  the  last  for  ironing  rufHes, 
laces,   etc. 

A  frequent  cause  of  poor  ironing  is  the  condi- 
tion of  the  irons.  They  must  be  kept  clean  and 
free  from  rust  to  do  good  work.  New  irons  should 
be  heated  thoroughly  and  rubbed  with  wax  or 
'grease  before  using.  If  irons  are  to  be  put  away 
for  any  length  of  time  they  should  be  .covered  with 


a  thin  coating  of  vaseline,  clean  grease  or  paraffin, 
or  wrapped  in  wax  paper.  If  starch  cooks  on,  it 
should  be  removed  immediately  with  a  dull  knife. 
If  irons  become  dirty  from  careless  use,  or  from 
being  left  on  the  stove  during  the  preparation  of 
the  meals,  they  should  be  thoroughly  washed  with 
soap  and  water  and  carefully  dried.  To  keep  irons 
smooth  when  using  them,  rub  with  wax  or  paraffin 
and  wipe  immediately  with  a  clean  cloth.  They 
improve  with  wear  if  they  have   good   treatment. 

Tubs Stationary    tubs     are     best,     even    though 

running  water  is  not  available,  for  some  simple 
method  of  draining  them  can  always  be  devised. 
They  are  better  if  made  of  porcelain,  enameled 
iron,  or  alberine  stone.  Wooden  tubs  may  be 
more  cheaply  constructed,  but  there  is  danger  of 
the  wooden  tub  becoming  unsanitary  from  careless 
handling. 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— MATERIALS 


361 


Stationary  tubs  should  be  always  set  with  regard 
to  the  height  of  the  person  who  is  to  use  them 
most.  Many  tubs  are  set  far  too  low,  and  neces- 
sitate too  much  back  bending  on  the  part  of  the 
operator. 

Laundry  Bench — The  laundry  bench  for  holding 
tubs  should  be  of  the  proper  height;  they  are  usu- 
ally set  too   low. 

Wringer — A  wringer  should  be  a  part  of  the 
laundry  equipment,  and  the  best  on  the  market  is 
usually  the  cheapest.  After  using  a  wringer,  it 
should  be  carefully  dried,  and  the  screws  pressing 
the  rollers  should  be  loosened.  When  not  in  use 
it  should  be  kept  covered  with  a  cloth  to  protect  it 
from  dust  and  dirt.  The  bearings  should  be  oiled 
occasionally.  Oil  dissolves  rubber,  and  that  prop- 
erty is  taken  advantage  of  in  cleaning  the  rubber 
rollers;  they  are  carefully  wiped  with  a  little  kero- 
sene. The  operation  should  not  be  performed 
frequently,  however,  and  the  oil  should  be  care- 
fully and  completely  removed  immediately  after 
use. 

Ironing  Board The  blanket  and  sheet  should  be 

put  on  tightly  and  smoothly  and  tacked  securely 
under  the  board,  using  short  brass-headed  tacks. 
It  is  well  to  have  a  separate  blanket  and  sheet  also, 
which  fit  the  table  used  in  the  laundry,  as  a  table 
is  a  convenient  place  for  ironing  large  pieces.  The 
ironing  sheet  should  be   kept  clean. 

Sleeve  Board A  sleeve   board   is   good   not  only 

for  sleeves  but  for  gathers  and  for  small  dresses. 
It  is  not  difficult  to   manufacture  at  home. 

Attach  to  the  Wall  the  broader  end  of  the  iron- 
ing board,  with  hinges;  it  is  a  great  convenience,  for 
then  it  is  always  in  place,  and  can  be  put  out  of 
the  way  by  folding  up  against  the  wall. 

Ragged  Articles — If  an  article  is  ragged,  fold  it 
with  the  tear  visible,  not  hid.  You  may  be  saved 
the  embarrassment  of  taking  it  out  for  use  thinking 
it  whole,  and  only  learning  later  when  it  is  opened 
'in  company."  The  man  of  the  house  will  par- 
ticularly endorse  this  "pointer"  if  applied  to  his 
handkerchiefs. 

Buttons  and  Mending — While  ironing,  notice 
pieces  needing  repairs  or  buttons;  place  them  on 
one  side  to  go  to  the  mending  basket  before  put 
away. 

Ironing  Board  Covers  that  are  strong,  durable 
and    easily    removed    for    laundering,    are    made    of 


drilling  and  laced  up  the  back  with  tape  run 
through  small  rings  or  eyelets. 

An  Ironing  Pad  is  a  great  convenience  when 
ironing  lace  waists,  embroidery,  dresses,  etc.  Make 
one  of  a  piece  of  an  old  blanket  folded  several 
times  with  two  layers  of  cotton  batting  in  the 
centre;  quilt  it  in  one  or  two-inch  blocks;  make 
cases  for  it  from  old  sheets.  It  is  invaluable  for 
use  in  sleeves,  shoulder  seams,  and  for  doing  up 
embroidery    pieces,    especially    raised    work. 

To  Remove  Wrinkles — Let  a  wrinkled  garment 
hang  24  hours,  if  possible,  before  dressing  it.  Many 
of  the  wrinkles  will  hang  out.  Taffeta  is  really 
injured  by  each  pressing,  and  although  taffeta  does 
wrinkle  easily,  some  of  the  wrinkles  will  come  out 
if  the  garment  is  smoothed  and  carefully  hung 
away.  After  each  pressing,  too,  taffeta  is  just  so 
much  more   liable  to  wrinkle. 

When  Chiffon  is  badly  wrinkled,  steam  it,  then 
hang  it  on  a  padded  hanger.  Stuff  it  with  tissue 
paper,  and  dry  it  in  front  of  fire  or  radiator.  To 
steam  it  fill  a  big  pan  full  of  boiling  water  and  hold 
the    chiffon   over   it   until   it   is   damp  with   steam. 

Baby  Irons A  set  of  toy  irons  is  very  useful  for 

ironing  baby  clothes,  or  for  yokes,  sleeves  and 
other  dainty  work. 

Rusty     Irons To     remove'    rust     from     flatirons, 

saturate  a  piece  of  flannel  with  ammonia,  then  rub 
the  irons.  Dry  with  a  cloth  sprinkled  with  pow- 
dered bath  brick. 

Rusty  irons  can  be  made  beautifully  smooth  by 
rubbing  them  when  hot  upon  a  piece  of  beeswax 
tied  in  a  cloth  and  then  upon  a  cloth  sprinkled  with 
salt. 

Rub  flatirons  over  waxed  paper  before  setting 
them   away  and  they  will   keep  bright  and   smooth. 

Sticky    Irons Irons    that    have    been    put    away 

sticky  should  be  well  scraped  with  a  thin  knife, 
then  rubbed  with  a  rough  cloth,  moistened  in  kero- 
sene. 

If  a  Brick  Is  Used  for  an  iron-stand  the  iron  will 
hold  its  heat  much  longer  than  when  an  ordinary 
stand  is  used. 

Used  Starch It  is  economical  after  using  a  bowl 

of  old  starch  to  let  it  settle.  Then  pour  off  the 
water  and  dry  the  starch  in  the  oven  at  night.  It 
will  be  reduced  to  a  cake  and  can  be  used  again. 

Water  in  which  macaroni  has  been  cooked  will 
make  an  excellent  starch  for  use  for  dainty  lingerie 
garments  or  fine  ginghams. 


362        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


ALL  KINDS  OF  STAINS 

First  Aid — It  is  hardly  necessary  to  say  that  stains  should  be  treated  as 
speedily  as  possible  after  their  first  appearance.  When  once  dry  they  are  more 
difficult  to  remove,  requiring  both  time  and  perseverance. 

Paint  should  be  instantly  wiped  off.  Grease  on  wood,  stone  or  carpet 
should  be  congealed  before  it  has  time  to  penetrate,  by  throwing  cold  water  over 
it.  Tea,  coffee,  ink,  wine  and  fruit  stains  will  disappear  in  a  quarter  of  the  time  if 
they  can  be  attended  to  while  wet.  Spots  on  colored  material  must  not  be  rubbed 
but  dabbed  over  and  over  again  until  they  disappear.  Rubbing  roughens  the  sur- 
face and  often  leaves  a  whitened  circle  almost  as  unsightly  as  the  actual  stain.  The 
dabbing  is  best  done  by  covering  a  finger  with  an  old  handkerchief  frequently 
changed,  and  great  care  should  be  taken  to  confine  the  operation  to  the  area  of  the 
stain  itself,  and  not  to  extend  the  damage  by  dampening  and  dabbing  the  sur- 
rounding material.  In  the  treatment  of  stains,  to  know  what  you  mean  to  do,  and 
to  do  it  quietly  and  neatly,  is  more  than  half  the  battle. 

In  General — When  any  greasy  substance  has  been  dropped  upon  silk,  it  can  be 
abstracted  by  mixing  French  chalk  with  methylated  spirit  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  lay- 
ing it  upon  the  stain,  then  covering  with  a  brown  paper  and  pressing  with  a  warm  iron. 
An  ice  cream  mark  can  be  removed  by  this  means,  but  it  must  be  applied  at  once. 

A  bottle  of  cologne  is  a  most  useful  article,  for  it  will  take  away  smears  if  rubbed 
on  as  soon  as  they  appear,  and  it  does  not  leave  the  disagreeable  odor  which  remains  for 
a  time  after  using  alcohol,  benzine,  and  the  like.  Cologne  may  be  used  alike  on  white  or 
colored  fabrics,  cotton  or  woolen,  'without  the  slightest  injury.  It  is  not  intended  for  a  gen- 
eral cleansing  agent,  as  it  is  expensive  for  the  purpose,  but  it  is  an  emergency  agent  of  about 
the  same  excellent  value  as  others.  For  instance,  when  a  person  is  quite  ready  to  go  out 
and  detects  some  soil  that  has  been  overlooked  when  putting  the  garment,  that  is  to  be 
worn,  away,  a  cloth  saturated  with  cologne  will  remedy  the  spot  at  least  temporarily,  and 
leave  a  pleasant  odor  instead  of  the  reverse. 

Medicine  stains  may  often  be  removed  by  sponging  thoroughly  with  alcohol. 

For  acids,  tie  up  a  bit  of  washing  soda  in  the  stained  part,  make  a  lather  of  soap 
and  cold  soft  water,  immerse  the  linen  and  boil  until  the  spot  disappears. 

CORNELL   COURSE   ON   STAINS 

To  Remove  Stains  (Cornell  Reading  Course) —  that  is,  to  find  some  substance  in  which  the  stain 
The  ordinary  washing  process  is  sufficient  to  get  is  soluble  or  which  will  aid  in  its  mechanical  re- 
rid  of  most  of  the  dirt  in  clothing,  but  certain  moval.  The  chief  solvents  valuable  in  removing 
stains   may   require   special   treatment    in    order   to  stains  that  resist  ordinary  washing  processes  are: 

insure  their  complete  removal.      Some  stains  are  in- 

■  1 1     .  ..  .  ,  ,  SOLVENTS 

soluble    in    water,    or    in    soap    and    water,    or    they 

may  be   made   so   by  the   action   of  heat,   and   thus  Tne  following  are  inflammable  and  should  be  so 

become    permanently    set    during    the    washing.       It  marked: 

is    wise    always    to    look    over    clothing    for    such  Turpentine;   benzine,    naptha,    or    gasoline;   kero- 

stains    and    to    remove      them      before      the      wash-  sene;  ether  (also  an  anaesthetic)  ;  chloroform   (also 

ing  begins.      Such  examination  will  often  save  time  anaesthetic  and   a  poison)  ;  alcohol. 

and    wear    and    tear    on    the    garments,    even    while  Others:    Carbona;    olive    oil,    lard,     etc.;    fuller's 

it   is   possible   to    remove   the   stains   in   washing,    as  eartK  and  French  chalk;  naptha  soaps;  water,  both 

only  the  part  of  the   garment  most  affected  is  then  hot     and     coId.     oxaIic     acid     (a     poison) .     javelle 

treated,    and  the   removal  of  the  stain  does   not  in-  water;    benzol;    hydrogen    peroxid;    sunshine;    am- 

volve  severe  treatment   of  the  whole   garment.  monia;    borax;    salt;    vinegar;    lemon    juice;    hydro- 

The  process  of  removing  stains  is  fundamentally  chloric  acid    (a    strong   acid   and  very   corrosive   to 

the  same  as  that  of  removing  other  forms  of  dirt,  fabrics  and  to  flesh);  ink  eradicator;  milk. 

363 


364        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 
GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  OF  STAIN  REMOVAL 

(From  U.  S.  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  861) 

Prepared  Under  the  Direction  of 
C.  F.  Langworthy,  Chief,  Office  of  Home  Economics 

The  removal  of  stains  is  a  necessary  feature  of  the  laundering  and  general 
care  of  clothing  and  other  household  textiles.  Most  stains  may  be  removed  easily 
at  home,  provided  reliable  methods  are  known  and  a  few  simple  precautions  are 
taken.  With  some  stains  prompt  home  treatment  is  necessary  in  order  to  save  the 
article  in  question  from  being  ruined,  and  in  most  cases  it  is  desirable,  since  all 
stains  are  removed  more  easily  when  fresh. 

Too  much  emphasis  cannot  be  laid  on  the  importance  of  applying  the  stain 
removers  while  the  stain  is  still  fresh,  for  usually  it  is  much  more  difficult  to  re- 
move an  old  stain  than  a  fresh  one.  Changes  in  the  character  of  the  stain,  brought 
about  by  drying,  exposure  to  air,  washing,  ironing  or  in  other  ways,  often  make  it 
necessary  to  use  chemicals  in  removing  old  stains,  whereas  in  many  cases  much 
simpler  methods  are  successful  if  the  str  ins  are  treated  when  fresh. 


NATURE  OF  STAINS 


The  nature  of  a  stain  should  be  known,  if  pos- 
sible, before  its  removal  is  attempted,  since  this 
determines  the  treatment  to  be  adopted.  More- 
over, if  an  unsuitable  stain  remover  is  used,  the 
stain  may  be  "set"  so  that  its  removal  becomes 
difficult  or  even  impossible.  For  example,  if  hot 
water,  which  easily  removes  most  fresh  fruit  stains, 
is  applied  to  stains  containing  protein,  such  as 
stains  of  milk,  blood,  eggs,  or  meat  juice,  it  coagu- 
lates the  albumin  in  the  fibers  of  ,the  cloth  and 
makes  it  extremely  difficult  to  remove.  Similarly, 
soap,  which  aids  in  the  removal  of  grease  spots, 
sets   many   fruit  stains. 

The  kind  of  fabric  upon  which  the  stain  occurs 
also  should  be  known.  The  method  of  treatment 
adopted  depends  as  much  upon  the  nature,  color, 
weave,  finish,  and  weight  of  the  fabric  as  upon  the 
kind  of  stain.  Cotton  and  linen  are  destroyed  by 
strong  acids  and  attacked  to  some  extent  even 
by  weaker  ones.  Concentrated  acids,  therefore, 
should  never  be  used  in  removing  stains  from  these 
fabrics,  and  when  dilute  acids  are  used  they  should 
be  neutralized  afterwards  with  a  suitable  alkali  or 
removed  by  thorough  rinsing;  otherwise  the  acid 
may  become  cencentrated  on  drying  and  destroy 
the  fibers.  Generally  speaking,  alkalis  do  not  at- 
tack cotton  or  linen  fabrics  to  the  extent  that  acids 
do.  However,  long-continued  or  repeated  expo- 
sure to  alkalis,  especially  in  hot  solution,  weakens 
the  fibers.  This  fact  is  said  to  be  due  to  a  hydra- 
tion of  the  cellulose  which  constitutes  the  fibers. 
The  damage  to  fabrics  resulting  from  the  careless 
use  of  strongly  alkaline  soaps,  washing  powders, 
washing  soda,  or  lye,  is  well  known  to  the  house- 
keeper. 


Wool  and  silk,  being  more  delicate  than  cotton 
and  linen,  require  more  careful  treatment.  The 
use  of  very  hot  water  must  be  avoided,  since  it 
turns  both  wool  and  silk  yellow,  shrinks  wool,  and 
weakens  silk  and  injures  its  finish.  These  ma- 
terials also  will  not  stand  much  rubbing,  as  this 
felts  together  the  wool  fibers  and  results  in  a 
shrinkage  or  thickening  of  the  material,  while  the 
silk  fabrics,  as  a  rule,  are  too  delicate  to  stand 
much  rubbing  without  breaking  or  separating  the 
fibers.  Both  wool  and  silk  are  dissolved  by  strong 
alkalis  and  are  injured  even  by  washing  soda  or 
strongly  alkaline  soap.  The  only  alkalis-  which 
should  be  used  in  laundering  or  removing  stains 
from  wool  and  silk  are  the  milder  ones  like  borax 
or  dilute  solutions  of  ammonia.  Acids,  with  the 
exception  of  nitric  which  weakens  and  turns  the 
fibers  yellow,   do   not  attack  wool  and   silk   readily. 

In  general  it  is  more  difficult  to  remove  stains 
from  wool  and  silk  than  from  cotton  or  linen.  In 
removing  stains  from  materials  made  from  two 
or  more  kinds  of  fibers,  such  as  silk  and  cotton 
mixtures,  the  effects  of  the  stain  removers  upon 
all  of  the  fibers  should  be  considered.  No  chem- 
ical should  be  used  which  would  injure  the  most 
delicate   of  the   fibers   present. 

It  is  also  much  more  difficult  to  remove  stains 
from  colored  than  from  white  materials,  for  the 
reason  that  most  of  the  bleaching  agents  which 
must  be  used  to  remove  persistent  stains  are  likely 
to  destroy  the   color  of  the   material  as  well. 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— STAINS— REMOVAL 


365 


METHODS    FOR    TREATMENT    OF    STAINS    IN    GENERAL 


The  following  paragraphs  deal  with  methods 
and  reagents  commonly  used  in  the  removal  of  a 
number  of  stains.  To  save  repetition,  these  are 
given  here  in  detail,  and  reference  is  made  to  them 
in  dealing  with  the  particular  stains  in  later  pages 
of  the  bulletin. 

Laundering — Ordinary  laundering,  mentioned 
frequently  as  a  method  for  removing  stains,  should 
be  done  as  follows:  First,  soak  the  stained  portion 
in  cold  or  lukewarm  water,  rubbing  the  stain  with 
a  neutral  soap  if  necessary.  Follow  this  by  thor- 
ough rinsing  in  clean  water,  after  which  the  article 
may  be  laundered  as  usual.  Use  this  method  only 
for  cotton  and  linen  (white  or  fast  colors)  and  the 
so-called  wash  silks  and  washable  woolens.  If  the 
materials   are  delicate,    sponge   them. 

Sponging Sponging   is  applicable  to  all   fabrics, 

but  especially  to  delicate  materials  or  colors  which 
ordinary  laundering  might  injure.  Spread  the 
stained  article  on  a  flat  surface  in  a  good  light, 
and  beneath  the  stain  put  a  cloth  folded  into  sev- 
eral thicknesses,  or  clean,  white  blotting  paper,  to 
absorb  the  superfluous  liquid.  Change  the  pad  for 
a  fresh  one  as  soon  as  it  becomes  soiled.  Sponge 
with  a  clean,  soft  lintless  cloth  (preferably  of  the 
same  material  as  that  stained)  and  renew  it  as  fre- 
quently as  may  be  necessary.  Lay  the  stained 
material  with  the  wrong  side  up  and  apply  the 
water  to  the  back,  so  that  the  foreign  substances 
can  be  washed  from  the  fibers  onto  the  pad  without 
having  to  pass   through  the  material. 

Application  of  Chemicals — Chemicals  should  not 
be  used  until  water  or  laundering  has  been  tried, 
for  they  attack  the  fibers  of  the  cloth  as  well  as 
the   stain. 

There  are  a  few  common  chemicals  which  are 
necessary  in  removing  some  stains,  and  these 
should  be  kept  in  every  household.  A  good  plan 
is  to  have  a  small  cupboard  in  the  laundry  where 
these  chemicals  may  be  kept  together  with  the 
utensils  used  in  applying  them.  As  some  of  these 
chemicals  are  poisonous  they  should  not  be  kept 
in  the  family  medicine  cabinet  or  pantry.  Chem- 
icals most  commonly  used  in  removing  stains  are 
Javelle  water,  potassium  permanganate  (solution), 
oxalic  acid,  ammonia  water,  carbon  tetrachlorid, 
French  chalk,  and  cream  of  tartar. 

With  these  chemicals  should  be  kept  some  of  the 
utensils  used  in  applying  them;  such  as  a  medium- 
sized  bowl,  a  medicine  dropper,  a  glass  rod  with 
rounded  ends,  several  pads  of  cheesecloth  or  old 
muslin,  and  a  small  sponge. 

Other  chemicals  are  mentioned  in  later  pages  of 
the  bulletin.  These  can  generally  be  bought  as 
needed   at   any   of  the   larger  drug   stores. 

If  the  effect  of  the  stain  remover  upon  the  fiber 
or   color    is   not   known,    try    it   by   applying   a    little 


to  a  sample  or  to  an  unexposed  portion  of  the 
goods.  Sometimes  it  is  best  to  remove  the  stain 
even  if  some  of  the  color  is  removed  also,  for  the 
color  often   may   be   restored  by  careful  tinting. 

Work  rapidly  when  using  chemicals  to  remove 
stains,  so  as  to  give  them  as  little  time  as  possible 
to  act  on  the  textile  fibers.  Many  brief  applica- 
tions of  the  chemicals,  with  rinsing  or  neutraliza- 
tion after  each  application,  are  preferable  to  the 
practice  of  allowing  them  to  remain  on  the  stain 
for  a  long  time.  Stretch  the  stained  portion  of  the 
garment  over  a  bowl  of  clean  water  and  apply  the 
chemical  with  a  medicine  dropper.  The  chemicals 
may  be  rinsed  out  quickly  by  dipping  in  the  clean 
water.  Another  method  is  to  place  the  stained 
portion  over  a  pad  of  folded  cloth  and  apply  the 
chemical  with  a  glass  rod.  The  rinsing  or  neutrali- 
zing always  must  be  thorough. 

Javelle  Water Prepare  Javelle  water  as  follows: 

Dissolve  I  pound  of  washing  soda  in  I  quart  of 
cold  water  To  this  solution  add  J/j  pound  of  or- 
dinary bleaching  powder  (calcium  hypochlorite). 
Filter  this  liquid  through  a  piece  of  muslin  to  re- 
move the  sediment  which  remains.  Keep  the  clear 
liquid  in  tightly  stoppered  bottles  for  use.  Javelle 
water  may  be  used  successfully  in  removing  a  num- 
ber of  stains,  but  should  be  applied  only  to  un- 
colored  cotton  or  linen  materials,  since  it  bleaches 
colors  and  rots  silk  or  wool.  In  treating  stains 
with  Javelle  water,  stretch  the  stained  portion  over 
a  bowl  filled  with  water  and  apply  the  Javelle  water 
to  the  stain  with  a  medicine  dropper.  Do  not  allow 
the  Javelle  water  to  remain  in  contact  with  the 
stain  for  more  than  one  minute,  and  then  apply 
oxalic-acid  solution  to  neutralize  the  Javelle  water 
and  rinse  by  dipping  the  stain  in  the  bowl  of 
water. 

Commercial  ink  removers  are  similar  in  action 
to  Javelle  water,  and  are  very  convenient  for  re- 
moving  many  stains  beside   ink  spots. 

If  allowed  to  remain  too  long  in  contact  with  the 
fibers  Javelle  water  rots  even  linen  and  cotton  ma- 
terials, and  it  should,  therefore,  always  be  neutral- 
ized with  oxalic  acid  and  the  fabric  be  rinsed  thor- 
oughly to  remove  all  traces  of  the  chemical.  Sev- 
eral applications  of  the  Javelle  water  with  inter- 
mediate neutralizations  are  necessary  with  persis- 
tent  stains. 

Potassium  Permanganate — Potassium  perman- 
ganate can  be  used  in  removing  stains  from  all 
white  fabrics.  It  also  may  be  used  successfully 
upon  many  colored  materials,  but  should  always 
be  tried  first  on  an  unexposed  portion  of  the  goods, 
to  determine  its  effect  on  the  dye.  It  does  not 
harm  delicate  fibers,  provided  it  is  used  with  rea- 
sonable care.  First,  remove  as  much  of  the  stain 
as  possible  by  sponging  or  washing  with 
cold      water.         Prepare      and      use      the      perman- 


366       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


ganate  as  follows:  Dissolve  I  teaspoonful  of  the 
crystals  in  a  pint  of  water  and  apply  a  little  of  this 
to  the  stain  with  a  medicine  dropper,  a  glass  rod, 
or  a  clean  cork,  and  allow  it  to  remain  for  about 
five  minutes.  Remove  any  pink  or  brown  stain  left 
by  the  permanganate,  by  applying  one  of  the  fol- 
lowing  chemicals: 

1 .  Hydrogen  peroxid,  made  slightly  acid  (if  not 
already  so)  with  hydrochloric,  acetic,  oxalic,  or 
tartaric  acid.  One  drop  of  the  acid  usually  is 
enough  to  acidify   3   teaspoonfuls   of  the  peroxid. 

2.  Oxalic  acid  in  saturated  solution  or  lemon 
juice  for  cotton,  linen,  or  silk.  Hydrogen  peroxid 
is   more   satisfactory  for  wool. 

Follow  the  treatment  by  thorough  rinsing. 
One   or    more    repetitions   of   this    treatment   may 
be   necessary  in   the   case   of  persistent  stains. 

Oxalic  Acid — This  is  poisonous  and  should  be 
used  carefully;  the  bottle  in  which  it  is  kept  must 
be  marked  "Poison,"  and  kept  out  of  the  reach  of 
children. 


To  prepare  a  solution  of  oxalic  acid  for  use,  dis- 
solve as  many  of  the  crystals  of  the  acid  as  will 
dissolve  in  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water.  Put  into  a 
bottle,  stopper  tightly,  and  use  as  needed.  Apply 
this  solution  to  the  stain  with  a  medicine  dropper 
or  glass  rod,  and  after  allowing  it  to  remain  for  a 
few  minutes  rinse  thoroughly  in  clean  water. 

Hydrogen  Peroxid — Hydrogen  peroxid,  as  ob- 
tained for  medicinal  purposes,  usually  is  made 
slightly  acid,  to  give  it  better  keeping  quality.  For 
use  in  removing  stains  make  a  small  amount  of  the 
peroxid  slightly  alkaline  with  ammonia.  It  then 
decomposes  easily  and  its  oxygen  is  free  to  attack 
the  stain.  Since  hydrogen  peroxid  affects  the  fiber 
also,  in  the  case  of  cotton  and  linen  materials,  fol- 
low it  by  very  careful  rinsing.  Apply  it  to  the 
stain  with  a  medicine  dropper,  a  glass  rod,  or  a 
clean  cork,  or  sponge  the  stain  with  it.  The 
method  of  using  it  in  neutralizing  potassium 
permanganate  is  described  above. 


METHODS    FOR    INDIVIDUAL   STAINS 


In  cases  where  the  nature  of  the  stain  is  not 
known  it  should  be  attacked  first  by  sponging  with 
cold  water,  provided,  however,  that  the  fabric 
would  not  be  injured  by  water.  If  the  stain  is  not 
removed  by  cold  or  warm  water,  chemicals  should 
then  be  applied.  Often  the  behavior  of  a  stain, 
when  treated  with  cold  water,  will  give  some  indi- 
cation of  its  nature;  for  example,  a  grease  spot  will 
not  absorb  water.  Hot  water  should  be  avoided  in 
treating  unknown  stains  until  after'  other  sub- 
stances have  been  tried,  since  hot  water  will  set 
many  stains  and  make  their  removal  more  difficult. 

Acids With  the   exception   of  nitric   acid,    acids 

do  not  generally  produce  stains  upon  white  fabrics 
but  often  change  or  destroy  the  color  of  dyed  ma- 
terials. However,  vegetable  fibers  are  destroyed 
readily  by  some  acids,  especially  by  those  of  greater 
concentration  or  strength.  Strong  sulphuric  acid, 
by  virtue  of  its  drying  action,  readily  destroys  the 
fibers  of  cotton  and  linen,  which  consist  chiefly  of 
cellulose;  but  not  those  of  wool  and  silk,  which  do 
not  contain  cellulose.  Strong  nitric  acid  or  the 
dilute  acid,  if  allowed  to  become  concentrated  by 
drying  not  only  turns  the  fibers  of  silk  and  wool 
to  a  permanent  bright  yellow,  but  finally  dissolves 
them.  Dilute  acids  do  not  attack  the  fibers  to  any 
great  extent  unless  they  are  allowed  to  dry  on  the 
cloth  and  become  concentrated,  but  they  do  some- 
times affect  the  color  of  the  fibers.  It  is  essential, 
therefore,  that  acid  spots  on  textiles  be  neutralized 
at  once  by  some  alkaline  solution.  For  this  pur- 
pose anyone  of  the  following  should  give  good 
results: 

.  1 .  Water.  Rinse  the  spot  several  times  in  a 
large   volume    of  water.      This   treatment    serves   to 


stop  any  further  action  of  the  acid  on  the  fabric, 
but  usually  has  no  effect  upon  any  discoloration 
due  to  the  acid. 

2.  An  alkaline  substance.  Apply  an  alkali  to 
the  acid  spot.  The  alkali  forms  a  salt  with  the  acid 
and  this  must  be  removed  later  by  rinsing  or 
sponging  with  water.  The  acid  should  be  neutral- 
ized completely  with  the  alkali  or  the  discoloration 
may  reappear  after  awhile.  To  determine  when  an 
acid  is  completely  neutralized  touch  it  with  a  piece 
of  litmus  paper,  wet  in  clean  water.  Litmus  paper 
is  red  in  the  presence  of  acids  and  blue  with  alkalis. 
It  may  be  purchased  at  some  drug  stores,  but  if 
litmus  paper  is  not  available  it  is  possible  to  tell 
when  an  acid  spot  is  neutralized  by  tasting  it.  If 
alkaline  it  will  taste  bitter  and  if  acid  it  will  taste 
sour.     Any  of  the  following  alkalis  may  be  used. 

(a)  Ammonia.  If  the  spot  is  slight,  neutralize 
it  by  holding  it  in  the  fumes  from  an  open  bottle 
of  strong  ammonia. 

(b)  Sodium  bicarbonate   (baking  soda).  Sprinkle 

this    on    the    stain on    both    sides,     if    possible 

moisten  with  water,  and  allow  to  stand  until  the 
acid  is  neutralized  (shown  in  this  case  by  the  ceas- 
ing of  the  effervescence)  ;  and  remove  the  excess 
by  rinsing  with  water. 

(c)  Ammonium  carbonate  (sal  volatile).  Apply 
in  the  same  way  as  sodium  bicarbonate. 

Alkalis Dilute  alkalis  have  little  effect  on  cotton 

and  linen,  but  strong  alkalis  cause  the  fibers  to 
swell  and  become  yellow,  and  the  cloth  to  contract. 
The  fiber,  however,  is  not  weakened  unless  the 
alkali  is  allowed  to  remain  a  long  time  upon  the 
cloth  or  to  become  very  concentrated  through 
evaporation.      Wool    and    silk,    on    the    other    hand, 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— STAINS— REMOVAL 


367 


are  yellowed  or  destroyed  by  strong  alkalis  even  in 
dilute  solutions.  Even  if  the  fiber  is  not  affected 
by  the  alkali,  the  color  may  be  changed  or  de- 
stroyed. It  is  important,  therefore,  to  neutralize 
alkali  spots  at  once.  Use  any  of  the  following 
agents: 

1 .  Water.  Rinse  thoroughly.  Frequently  this 
is  sufficient  in  the  case  of  such  alkalis  as  washing 
soda  and  ammonia. 

2.  A  mild  acid.  Apply  the  acid  with  a  cloth 
until  the  fabric  changes  back  to  its  original  color, 
or  until  the  stain  is  slightly  acid  as  shown  by  its 
reaction  to  litmus  paper  or  by  the  odor  or  taste. 
Then  rinse  the  fabric  thoroughly  in  water.  In  the 
case  of  colored  goods  it  is  helpful  to  rub  the  stain 


dry,  using  a  piece  of  the  same  material  as  the 
stained  fabric,  if  possible.  Use  any  of  the  follow- 
ing mild  acids: 

(a)  Lemon  juice.  Squeeze  the  juice  on  the 
stain.  As  long  as  the  spot  remains  alkaline  the 
juice  is  a  bright  yellow  in  color,  but  when  the  spot 
becomes  acid  the  color  disappears  almost  entirely. 
Apply  the  lemon  juice  until  this  color  change  takes 
place. 

(b)  Vinegar.  If  the  vinegar  itself  leaves  a  spot, 
remove  it  by  sponging  with  water. 

(c)  Acetic  acid.  Apply  a  10  per  cent,  solution 
to  the  stain  and  remove  the  excess  by  rinsing. 


METHOD  OF  REMOVING  STAINS— SPECIFIC 

NOTE:  The  majority  of  the  following  items  are  taken  from  Cornell  Reading 
Course,  Farm  House  Series  No.  3,  "The  Laundry,"  to  which  the  publishers  acknowledge 
their  grateful  indebtedness.      Such  Cornell  items  are  in  each  case  marked  "(C.  R.  C.)." 


Blood — (C.  R.  C.) — Wash  in  cold  water  until 
stain  turns  brown,  then  rub  with  naptha  soap  and 
soak  in  warm  water.  Or;  rub  with  common  soap, 
then  soak  in  water  to  which  a  teaspoon  of  turpen- 
tine has  been  added.  Or;  if  the  goods  is  thick 
apply  a  paste  of  raw  starch  to  the  stain;  renew 
paste   from  time  to   time  until  stain  disappears. 

Blood If  fresh,  blood  may  be  removed  by  soak- 
ing for  twelve  hours  in  cold  water  and  starch;  or 
by  soaking  in  cold  water,  then  washing  in  warm 
water  with  plenty  of  soap;  expose  to  the  sun  a  day 
or  two  if  any  stain  remains.  Old  blood  stains  re- 
quire iodine  of  potassium  diluted  with  four  times 
its  weight  of  water. 

Chocolate (C.     R.     C.) — Sprinkle    with     borax 

and  soak  in  cold  water. 

Chocolate  and  Coffee — Pour  soft  boiling  water 
through  the  stains  and  while  wet  hold  in  the  fumes 
of  burning  sulphur.  Or  soak  overnight  in  cold 
water  in  which  a  little  borax  has  been  dissolved. 
Or  use  glycerine  in  same  manner  as  for  tea  stains 
(see  TEA),  especially  when  cream  had  been  in 
the  coffee  or  the  chocolate. 

Coffee (C.    R.    C.) Spread    stained   surface    of 

the  cloth  over  bowl  or  tub.  Pour  boiling  water 
through  the  stained  part  of  the  cloth;  pour  from  a 
height  so  as  to  strike  the  stain  with  force. 

Cream — (C.   R.    C.) Wash   in   cold   water,    then 

with  soap   and   water. 

Fruit  and  Wine — (C.  R.  C.) — Treat  with  boiling 
water  as  for  coffee.  If  the  stain  resists  the 
boiling  water  treatment,  soak  the  stained  part 
of  the  cloth  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  solution  made 
from  equal  parts  of  javelle  water  and  boiling  water. 
Rinse  thoroughly  with  boiling  water  to  which  a 
little  dilute  ammonia  water  has  been  added.  Re- 
peat if  necessary. 


Fruit  and  Wine — While  fresh,  gently  rub  the 
spot  with  a  clean  cloth  saturated  with  alcohol;  if 
cloth  remains  on  the  table,  protect  the  table  from 
the  alcohol.  If  old,  rub  fruit  stains  with  yellow 
soap  on  both  sides  of  the  cloth,  cover  quickly  with 
cold  water  starch  well  rubbed  in,  and  expose  to 
sun  and  air  for  three  or  four  days.  Then  rub  off 
the  mixture.  Repeat  process  if  necessary.  Apple 
and  pear  stains  may  be  removed  by  soaking  in 
paraffin  for  a  few  hours  before  washing.  Fruit 
spots  may  often  be  removed  by  pouring  boiling 
water  through  the  stain  while  fresh.  Old  fixed 
stains  may  be  removed  by  soaking  in  a  weak  solu- 
tion of  oxalic  acid,  or  holding  the  spot  over  the 
fumes  of  sulphur. 

Egg — Egg  stains  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water; 
hot  water  would  set  the  stains.  The  same  rule 
applies  to  egg  stains  on  dishes;  wash  in  cold  water 
instead  of  hot  water  and  they  come  off  more  read- 
ily. 

Grass  Stains (C.  R.  C.) Soak  in  alcohol.    Or; 

Wash  with  naptha  soap  and  warm  water.  If  the 
fabric  has  no  delicate  colors  and  the  stain  is  fresh, 
treat  with  ammonia  water.  For  colored  fabrics, 
apply  molasses  or  a  paste  of  soap  and  cooking 
soda  and  let  stand  over  night. 

Grease  Spots (C.  R.  C.) wash  thoroughly  with 

naptha  soap  and  water.  Soften  old  grease  spots 
with  turpentine,  oil,  or  lard,  before  washing  the 
cloth.  Or;  dissolve  the  grease  in  benzine,  alcohol, 
chloroform,  ether,  carbona,  or  benzol.  For  deli- 
cate fabrics  dissolve  grease  spots  in  ether  or  chloro- 
form. Chloroform  and  carbona  are  useful  because 
non-inflammable.  Or;  apply  a  paste  of  Fuller's 
earth  or  chalk  to  absorb  grease,  especially  when 
fresh. 


368        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


Grease — Hot  water  and  soap  will  usually  remove 
these;  if  of  long  standing  use  chloroform  or  naptha 
(away  from  artificial  open  flame  light).  Eucalyp- 
tus oil  (used  for  mosquito  lotion,  but  not  always 
unadulterated  for  this  purpose)  will  remove  grease 
spots  without  injury  to   any  material. 

Indigo — (C.  R.  C.) — Treat  as  for  coffee  (C.  R. 
C). 

Ink — (C.  R.  C.) — Ink  is  often  difficult  to  re- 
move, as  it  varies  greatly  in  composition.  It  is 
well  to  experiment  with  a  corner  of  the  spot  (or 
with  some  of  the  same  ink  on  another  fabric)  be- 
fore operating  on  the  whole. 

If  the  stain  is  fresh,  soak  the  stained  portion  of 
the  cloth  in  milk.  Use  fresh  milk  as  the  old  be- 
comes discolored.  Or;  wet  the  stain  with  cold 
water.  Apply  a  ten  per  cent,  solution  of  oxalic 
acid  to  stain,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  rinse. 
Repeat  until  stain  disappears.  Rinse  in  water  to 
which  borax  or  ammonia  has  been  added.  (Oxalic 
acid  is  a  very  poisonous  substance).  Javelle  water 
will  remove  some  ink  stains.  Apply  as  for  rust 
stains  (see  RUST  (C.  R.  C).  Or;  treat  with 
hydrochloric  acid  as  for  iron  rust  (C.  R.  C).  Or; 
treat  with  lemon  juice  and  salt,  as  for  iron  rust 
(C.  R.  O).     Or;  use  alcohol  for  some  ink  stains. 

Milk  is  the  only  reagent  given  above  that  does 
not  remove  color. 

Ink — (Iowa  State  College) 1.    If  stain  is   fresh, 

place  stained  portion  in  sweet  or  sour  milk  and 
allow  to  stand  several  hours.  2.  Wet  stain  in  cold 
water  and  drop  dilute  oxalic  acid  or  equal  parts 
oxalic  acid  and  cream  of  tartar  on  the  spot,  let 
stand  a  few  minutes  and  rinse  in  ammonia  water. 
3.  If  stain  is  dry  and  well  set,  cover  with  salt  and 
lemon  juice,  or  use  Javelle  water.  4.  Soak  stain  in 
hot  vinegar.  5.  Ink  eradicator  may  be  used.  The 
result  depends  upon  weave  and  material,  also  kind 
of  ink. 

To  bleach  or  remove  stains  from  white  goods, 
soak  the  article  in  equal  quantities  Javelle  water 
and  hot  water  until  stains  disappear;  then  rinse 
thoroughly  in  several  waters,  and  finally  in  diluted 
ammonia  water. 

Javelle  water  removes  all  stains  and  all  colors, 
and  therefore  should  not  be  used  on  colored  goods. 

Ink — Ink  can  generally  be  removed  in  the  same 
manner  as  rust.  Oxalic  acid  and  Javelle  water 
will  remove  ink,  but  all  ink  removers  except  milk 
will  also  remove  color  from  colored  fabrics.  Soak 
in  sour  milk;  if  a  stain  remains  and  the  fabric  is 
not  a  colored  fabric;  rinse  in  a  weak  solution  of 
chlorid  of  lime,  or  try  other  reagents.  To  take 
ink  spots  out  of  colored  materials  cover  with  tal- 
low before  sending  to  the  laundry  and  much  if  not 
all  of  the  stain  will  disappear.  Boiling  starch 
poured  over  ink  spots  will  often  remove  ink  spots, 
but  requires  treatment  for  an  hour  or  two;  it  is 
not  injurious  to  colored  materials.  Salts  of  lemon 
will     remove    ink    spots    in     many    cases;    wet    the 


powder,  then  wet  the  spot  with  tepid  water;  then 
rub  on  a  little  of  the  salts  and  expose  to  the  sun. 
Use  of  milk:  wash  out  as  much  of  the  spot  as  pos- 
sible in  milk;  put  finally  to  soak  in  a  pan  of  milk, 
let  it  stand  two  days,  or  until  the  milk  turns  to 
clabber;  then  wash  out  the  fabric. 

Indellible  Ink — Cyanide  of  potassium  (one  of 
the  most  violent  of  poisons)  will  remove  all  in- 
dellible inks,  the  base  of  which  is  nitrate  of  silver. 
Turpentine  or  alcohol  rubbed  in  hot  removes  the 
new  inks,  using  soda  and  soap  freely  in  hot  water 
afterwards. 

Iodine — (C.  R.  C.) — Soak  in  alcohol,  chloro- 
form or  ether. 

Iodine — Iodine  may  be  removed  from  skin  or 
clothing  with  strong  ammonia  water.  Or  use  boil- 
ing starch  water  same  as  for  ink  stains.  Or  wash 
with  alcohol,  then  rinse  with  soapy  water. 

Iron  Rust — (C.  R.  C.) — I.  Wet  the  stained  part 
with  borax  and  water,  or  ammonia,  and  spread 
over  a  bowl  of  boiling  water.  Aply  a  ten  per 
cent,  solution  of  hydrochloric  acid,  drop  by  drop, 
until  the  stain  begins  to  brighten.  Dip  at  once 
into  alkiline  water.  If  the  stain  does  not  at  once 
disappear  add  more  acid  and  rinse  again.  After 
the  stain  is  removed,  rinse  at  once  thoroughly  in 
water  to  which  borax  or  ammonia  has  been  added, 
to  neutralize  any  acid  that  may  linger.  Less  dilute 
acid  may  be  used  if  the  operator  is  skillful. 

2.  Proceed  as  with  hydrochloric  acid,  but  use 
a  ten  per  cent,  solution  of  oxalic  acid  instead  of 
hydrochloric  acid.  Oxalic  acid  is  not  so  detri- 
mental to  fabrics  as  is  hydrochloric  acid,  but  it  is 
a  deadly  poison  even  in  dilute  solution. 

3.  Wet  the  stained  part  with  a  paste  made  of 
lemon  juice,  salt,  starch  and  soap,  and  expose  it 
to  the  sunlight.  This  is  a  simple  method  to  em- 
ploy, but  it  takes  longer  and  is  often  not  effective. 

4.  Soak  stain  in  Javelle  water  for  a  few  min- 
utes, then  wash.  Repeat  until  stain  disappears. 
Javelle  water  is  weaker  in  action  than  is  hydro- 
chloric acid.  All  the  iron-rust-removing  substances 
destroy  color,  and  unless  care  is  taken  will  greatly 
weaken  the  fabric. 

Lampblack — (C.     R.     C.) Saturate     spot     with 

kerosene.      Wash  with  naphtha   soap   and   water. 

Lampblack  or  Soot — Rub  the  spots  with  dry 
corn  meal  before  sending  the  clothes  to  the  laun- 
dry. 

Machine  Oil — (C.  R.  C.) — Wash  with  soap  and 
cold  water.  If  the  stain  does  not  respond  to 
the  soap  and  water,  use  turpentine  as  directed 
(C.  R.  C.)    for  paint  stains. 

Machine  Oil — Try  rubbing  with  lard,  let  stand, 
wash  with  cold  water  and  soap. 

Meat  Juice — (C.  R.  C.) — Wash  in  cold  water, 
then  with  soap  and  water. 


LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD— STAINS— REMOVAL 


369 


Medicine  Stains — (C.   R.    C.) — Soak   in   alcohol. 

Mildew — (C.  R.  C.) — Mildew  is  very  difficult  to 
remove  if  of  long  standing.  I.  Wet  stains  with 
lemon  juice  and  expose  to  the  sun.  2.  Wet  with 
paste  made  of  I  tablespoonful  of  starch,  juice  of 
I  lemon,  soft  soap,  and  salt,  and  expose  to  action 
of  sun.  3.  Treat  with  paste  made  of  powdered 
chalk  and  expose  to  action  of  sun. 

Mildew — Mildew  may  often  be  removed  with 
chlorid  of  lime;  soak  several  hours,  then  rinse  in 
cold  water.  Or  try  saturating  the  article  with  kero- 
sene, roll  it  up  and  let  stand  24  hours,  then  wash 
in  soapsuds.  A  mixture  of  soapy  starch  and  milk 
will  often  prove  sufficient  for  fresh  mildew. 

Milk — (C.     R.     C.) — Treat     as     directed     under 


Mucus (C.  R.  C.) — Soak  in  ammonia  water  or 

in   salt   and   water,    then   wash  with   soap   and   cold 
water. 

Mud  Spots — Mud  spots  which  are  left  after  the 
garment  has  been  brushed  may  be  removed  by  rub- 
bing with  a  cut  raw  potato. 

Paint — (C.  R.  C.) — I.  Wet  the  spot  with  turpen- 
tine, benzine  or  alcohol,  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes. 
Wet  again  and  sponge  or  pat  with  a  clean  cloth. 
Continue  until  stain  disappears.  2.  For  delicate 
colors,  treat  with  chloroform.  3.  If  the  paint  is 
old  it  may  take  some  time  to  soften.  Treat  old 
paint  stains  with  equal  parts  of  ammonia  and  tur- 
pentine. 

Paint — If  a  fine  fabric  is  involved,  use  alcohol 
or  chloroform  instead  of  turpentine.  If  turpen- 
tine, when  used,  leaves  a  dark  ring  or  spot,  sponge 
with   chloroform. 

Perspiration—  (  C.  R.  C. ) — Wash  in  soapsuds  and 
expose  to  the  action  of  sunshine.  Or  treat  with 
Javelle  water  as  directed  for  iron  rust.  Or  treat 
with  oxalic  acid  as  directed  for  iron  rust. 

Scorch — (C.  R.  C. ) — Scorched  fabric  can  be  re- 
stored if  the  threads  are  uninjured.  1 .  Wet  the 
stained  portion  and  expose  to  the  action  of  the 
sun.  Repeat  several  times.  2.  Extract  juice  of  2 
onions,    add     I     cupful    vinegar,    2    ounces    Fuller's 


earth,  and  Yl  ounce  of  soap.  Boil.  Spread  paste 
over  scorched  surface.  Let  it  dry  in  sun.  Wash 
out  thoroughly. 

Scorch — Rub  the  spot  with  a  cloth  dipped  in 
diluted  peroxide  of  hydrogen;  place  the  garment  in 
the  hottest  sun  possible.  Or  a  soap  rub,  then  the 
sun  bath,   may  be  sufficient. 

Soot Treat  as  directed  for  lampblack. 

Stove  Polish — (C.  R.  C.) — If  fresh,  remove  by 
washing.  If  the  stain  is  old,  treat  as  directed  for 
tar  and  lampblack. 

Tar — (C.  R.  C.) — Treat  as  directed  for  lamp- 
black. 

Tar  or  Pitch    (or  Wheel  Grease) Soften   stains 

with  lard,  then  soak  in  turpentine  and  rub  gently 
until  dry.  Make  a  ring  around  the  stained  part,  of 
cornstarch,   so  the  turpentine  will  not  spread. 

Tea — (C.  R.  C.) — Treat  as  directed  for  choco- 
late.     Or  soak   the  stain   in   glycerin,   then  wash. 

Tea — Soak  the  stained  part  in  cold  water,  then 
in  glycerin,  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  two,  then  wash 
with  cold  water  and  rub  well.  Even  the  old  stains 
will  disappear  under  this  treatment.  Directly  tea 
is  spilt  on  a  table  cloth  or  napkin,  cover  the  stain 
with  common  salt.  Leave  it  for  awhile;  when  the 
cloth  is  then  washed  the  stain  will  have  disap- 
peared. Clear  boiling  water  poured  through  tea 
stains,  as  directed  for  removing  coffee  stains,  will 
effect  removal. 

Tea  stains  on  Granite  Ware  or  enamel  teapot — 
Fill  with  cold  or  leftover  coffee  and  boiling  water 
and  set  on  stove  to  boil  for  ten  minutes;  remove 
the  coffee  and  wash  pot  in  hot  soapy  water. 

Varnish — (C.  R.  C.) — Treat  as  directed  for 
paint. 

Vaseline (C.    R.    C.) Wash    with    turpentine. 

Boiling  sets  this  stain. 

Vaseline — Saturate  the  spot  with  ether  and  lay 
a  cup  over  it  to  prevent  evaporation  until  the  stain 
is  removed.  Use  the  ether  with  very  great  care; 
it  is  volatile  and   dangerous. 

Wine — Treat   as   directed   for   fruit   stains. 


Wagon  Grease — (C.  R.  C.) — Soften  with  lard  or 
oil  and  wash  in  soap  and  water. 


370       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— ^Section  VI— LAUNDRY,  IRONING  BOARD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


FAMILY  D0CTOR 


SECTION  VII. 


"In  time 
of  health 
prepare 
for 
sickness  " 


THE  HOME  NURSE 

In  spite  of  all  the  barriers  it  is  possible  to  devise,  sickness  and  accident  cannot 
always  be  kept  from  the  home.  And  the  physician's  fight  is  half  won  if  those 
in  the  home  support  his  work  with  intelligence,  assurance  and  quiet  efficiency, 
while  his  function  is  often  rendered  unnecessary,  and  always  it  is  a  big  aid  to  him, 
if  "what  to  do  first"  or  while  awaiting  him,  is  known  and  sensibly  practiced. 

To  the  gentle  hand  of  the  woman  belongs  the  care  of  the  sick,  and  every 
woman  should  appreciate  seriously  that  the  time  will  come  inevitably  when  on  her 
will  perhaps  depend  even  the  life  of  a  loved  one.  This  is  not  to  say  that  she 
should  fit  herself  as  a  professional  nurse  is  fitted,  but  that  "reasonable  prepared- 
ness" should  be  hers  in  that  she  should  learn  the  simple  lessons  imperatively  nec- 
essary for  the  care  of  the  sick,  or  the  meeting  of  an  emergency  in  her  own  home. 

No  course  in  home  nursing  can  equip  one  to  take  care  of  such  critical  issues  as  typhoid 
fever  or  pneumonia,  but  even  in  these  knowledge  and  confidence,  and  the  quiet  assurance 
that  comes  of  intelligence,  will  materially  assist  the  professional  nurse  engaged,  and  help 
her  to  establish  the  proper  atmosphere  and  carry  on  her  own  work  with  infinitely  greater 
ease  and  success.  But  for  the  ordinary  home  ills,  learn  the  following  first  principles  of 
home  nursing. 

The  day  of  the  long  face  is  past  and  gone.  Cheerfulness,  hopefulness,  confidence, 
give  the  patient  the  feeling  that  in  the  very  atmosphere  is  the  sense  of  winning  as  a  mat- 
ter of  course. 

Sunlight,  air  and  quiet,  come  next.  Turn  out  any  member  of  the  family  necessary  to 
attain  these  for  the  sick.  Sun  and  fresh  air  are  the  best  cleansers  and  stimulants  that 
exist.  They  purify  polluted  atmosphere,  real  and  mental,  better  than  any  disinfectant  or 
tonic  known.  Quiet  clears  away  worry  and  irritation,  small  excitements  and  all  sorts  of 
nervous  rubbish — and  even  pleasant  excitements,  including  the  entertaining  of  visitors,  are 
included  here. 

371 


372       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 

HOME  NURSING 

(Iowa   State   College   Bulletin) 
I.     VALUE   OF   KNOWLEDGE 

A  working  knowledge  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  home  nursing  gives 
power  to  interpret  the  directions  of  the  physician  and  also  puts  the  home  maker  in 
perfect  sympathy  with  his  directions.  This  spirit  of  cooperation  removes  a  serious 
handicap  which  often  prevents  the  physician  from  doing  his  best  work. 

Serious  illness  is  frequently  avoided  by  timely  preventive  treatment  which  is 
the  result  of  this  knowledge  of  principles. 

A  knowledge  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  nursing  is  essential  in  the  wise 
treatment  of  emergencies. 

II.     QUALIFICATIONS    OF   A    NURSE 

The  qualifications  of  the  successful  nurse  are  identical  with  the  qualifications 
of  the  ideal  woman.  The  chief  qualifications  are  neatness,  good  temper,  poise, 
tact,  which  is  another  name  for  common  sense,  and  good  health. 

The  ability  to  adapt  herself  to  all  circumstances  is  a  valuable  asset. 

Neatness  means  clean  person,  simply  combed  hair,  well  shod  feet,  clean,  sim- 
ply made,  cotton  dresses,  clean  teeth,  clean  hands  and  clean  finger  nails. 

Good  health  is  so  essential  to  the  home  -nurse,  that  great  care  must  be  taken 
to  maintain  good  physical  condition.  It  is  especially  important  that  the  home 
nurse  eat  simple,  easily  digested  food  at  regular  intervals,  that  she  spend  some  time 
in  the  open  air  each  day  and  that  she  plan  for  some  sleeping  hours  out  of  each 
twenty-four.     The  welfare  of  the  patient  depends  upon  this. 

HI.     THE   SICK    ROOM 

A  large  room  on  the  sunny  side  of  the  house  is  preferable.  A  room  with  two 
or  more  windows  makes  thorough  ventilation  more  easily  possible.  A  germ  dis- 
ease should  be  cared  for  on  the  upper  floor,  to  aid  in  preventing  the  contamina- 
tion of  the  lower  floor.  The  room  should  have  only  a  minimum  amount  of  fur- 
niture. A  painted  or  other  hard  finished  wall  is  preferable.  Upholstered  furni- 
ture, thick  rugs  and  other  dust  catchers  should  be  avoided.  Windows  should  be 
securely  screened.  The  bed  should  be  so  located  as  to  protect  eyes  from  strong 
light,  and  patient  from  direct  draught. 

IV.     KNOWLEDGE   OF  BACTERIA       „ 

Bacteria  are  present  practically  everywhere  in  nature.  They  are  found  in  the 
air,  in  the  soil,  in  salt  and  fresh  water,  in  the  food. 

The  majority  of  bacteria,  however,  are  harmless  and  many  of  them  are  bene- 
ficial. Under  the  latter  may  be  named  the  putrefiers,  nitrifiers  and  flavor  produc- 
ers.    Bacteria,  which  produce  disease,  are  known  as  pathogenic  bacteria. 

Methods   of  Destroying  Bacteria  B.    Chemical  agents. 

A.    Physical   agents.  •       y   8 

I.    Heat.  2-   By  liquids- 

3.   By   soluble   salts. 

Chemical  agents  which  will  destroy  bacteria  are 

By   steaming.  known    as    disinfectants,    while    those    that    check 

By  use   of   hot   air   or   dry   sterilization.  the  growth  of  bacteria  are  known  as  antiseptics. 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH— HOME  NURSING 


373 


DISINFECTANTS 

1.  Bichloride  of  Mercury   (corrosive  sublimate): 

Standard  solution,  1:1000  (1  tablet  to  a  pint  of 
■water). 

This  is  particularly  serviceable  for  the  disinfec- 
tion of  wounds,  the  hands,  and  for  washing  wood- 
work,   floors   and  furniture. 

Bichloride  will  discolor  clothing  and  corrode 
metal,  marble  and  porcelain,  hence  it  is  inapplic- 
able for  the  disinfection  of  instruments  and  for  use 
in  plumbing  fixtures. 

2.  Carbolic  Acid  or  Phenol:  A  5  per  cent  solu- 
tion will  destroy  non-spore  bearing  microorganisms 
very  quickly.  To  insure  the  killing  of  bacterial 
spores  add  0.5  per  cent  of  hydrochloric  acid. 

Carbolic  acid  will  not  discolor  white  materials  or 
metals.  It  is  one  of  the  most  common  and  most 
valuable  of  the  disinfectants  for  handkerchiefs, 
towels,   underclothing,    napkins,   etc. 

3.  Lysol,  Cresol  and  Creolin:  These  are  very 
closely  related  to  carbolic  acid  or  phenol  and  are 
used   similarly. 

4.  Chloride  of  Lime:  Dissolve  chloride  of  lime 
of  the  best  quality  in  pure  water  in  the  proportion 
of  six  ounces  to  the  gallon.  Keep  in  a  stone  jar 
or  jug.  Use  one  quart  of  this  solution  for  each 
discharge  from  patient  suffering  with  a  contagious 
or  infectious  disease.  Chloride  of  lime  is  used 
principally  for  disinfecting  excreta,  water  closets, 
sinks  and  traps. 

5.  Milk  of  Lime:  Milk  of  lime  is  made  by  adding 
one  part  of  dry  freshly  slacked  lime  to  four  parts 
of  water. 

To  disinfect  excreta  use  twice  as  much  of  the 
milk  of  lime  as  the  volume  of  the  discharge. 
Thorough  mixing  and  stirring  are  advisable.  The 
mixture  should  stand  one  hour  before  being  thrown 
into  the  water  closet  or  before  being  buried.  A 
5  per  cent  solution  of  carbolic  acid  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  milk  of  lime. 

6.  Formaldehyde:  Formaldehyde  is  a  gas  readily 
soluble  in  water.  It  is  commonly  sold  as  formalin 
(a  40  per  cent  solution  of  formaldehyde  in  water). 
Formaldehyde  is  more  commonly  used  for  fumiga- 
tion than  any  other  gas.  It  does  not  damage 
books,  paintings,  delicate  fabrics,  or  attack  ordin- 
ary dye3  or  metals. 

It  can  therefore  be  used  for  the  disinfection  of 
furnished  rooms,  sleeping  cars,  ambulances  and 
closed  vehicles.  Formaldehyde  is  active  only  in 
the  presence  of  moisture.  The  air  of  the  room 
during  fumigation  should  contain  75  per  cent  of 
moisture  and  the  temperature  of  the  room  should 
be  at  least   50   degrees  F. 

7.  Alcohol:  Alcohol  of  70  per  cent  solution  is 
frequently  used  as  a  disinfectant  for  thermometers, 
needles  and   to   disinfect  the  skin. 


ANTISEPTICS 

1.  Peroxide  of  Hydrogen:  Peroxide  of  hydrogen 
will  check  bacterial  growth.  It  is  used  on  wounds, 
as  a  mouth  wash  and  as  a   gargle. 

2.  Listerine:  Listerine  is  one  of  the  common 
antiseptics  used  as  a  mouth  wash  and   gargle. 

3.  Boric  Acid:  Boric  acid  solution  is  made  by 
dissolving  the  powder  in  hot  water  (a  4  per  cent 
solution  is  usually  used).  It  is  used  for  eye  and 
nasal  applications  and  for  mouth  washes  and  for 
a  cut  or  an  abrasion  of  the  skin,  or  a  discharging 
sore.  It  is  also  used  to  sterilize  thermometers  and 
rubber  nipples. 

4.  Salt  Solution:  Use  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
salt  to  one  pint  of  sterilized  water.  This  possesses 
but  slight  antiseptic  properties  but  it  is  much  used 
on  account  of  its  stimulating  effect  on  tissue. 

5.  Condys  Fluid:  Condys  fluid  conains  1 6  grains 
of  permanganate  of  potash  crystals  to  one  ounce 
of  water.      It  is  both  a  disinfectant  and  deodorant. 

VENTILATION 

"A  constant  supply  of  pure,  fresh,  flowing  air" 
is  essential  to  health.  An  adult  requires  1,200  cubic 
feet  of  pure  air  every  hour  for  breathing.  Ventila- 
tion must  be  carried  on  continually  day  and  night. 

Methods  of  Ventilation 

1.  Gravity    and    Diffusion    (natural    means). 

2.  Mechanical  Ventilation  (by  propulsion  or 
extraction  of  air).  The  air  of  the  sick  room  must 
be  kept  pure,  wholesome  and  cool.  In  almost  every 
case  the  window  can  be  kept  open  1  Yl  inches  from 
the  top  without  injury  to  the  patient.  The  hot  air 
rises  and  displaces  the  cold  air.  The  sick  room 
may  be  properly  ventilated  by  arrangement  of  win- 
dows in  adjoining  rooms.  A  good  circulation 
without  a  draught  may  be  secured.  A  fire  place 
is  one  of  the  very  best  ventilators.  The  tempera- 
ture of  the  sick  room  should  be  from  65  to  68 
degrees  F.  at  night  and  68  to  70  degrees  F.  in  the 
daytime. 

CLEANLINESS 

The  Floor:  Remove  rugs  from  room,  sweep 
clean  and  wipe  rugs  with  dampened  cloth  wrung 
out  of  hot  water  which  has  a  few  drops  of  for- 
maldehyde   in    it. 

Note:  Great  care  must  be  taken  in  handling 
formaldehyde.  The  gas  is  a  great  irritant  to  eyes, 
nose   and    throat. 

If  the  case  is  a  contagious  disease,  remove  from 
room  all  rugs  except  one  which  can  be  easily  fu- 
migated   or   if   necessary,    burned. 

Sweep  the  floor  with  a  vacuum  cleaner  or  with 
a  brush  or  broom  covered  with  a  dampened  cloth. 
Avoid  disseminating  the  dust  about  the  room  in 
every  possible  way.  Clean  the  floor  thoroughly 
with  soap  and  hot  water  and  follow  with  a  standard 
solution  of  bichloride  of  mercury — 1:1000  parts 
(I    tablet  to    I    pint  of  water). 


374       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


The  Furniture:  Metallic  or  non-absorbent  sub- 
stances are  the  ideal  materials  for  beds  in  the  sick 
room.  These  can  be  wiped  with  a  disinfectant  or 
antiseptic  wash  so  that  all  cracks  or  crevices  will 
be  free  of  dust  or  germs.  The  remainder  of  the 
furniture  should  be  thoroughly  dusted  every  day 
with  a  dampened  cloth  even  if  the  furniture  is 
varnished  or  oiled.  This  can  be  done  without 
injury  to  the  furniture  if  it  is  rubbed  immediately 


with  a  dry  cloth.  Once  a  week  apply  to  the  fur- 
niture a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  oil  and  turpen- 
tine. Apply  the  emulsion  sparingly  and  rub  after- 
wards till  all  greasiness  has  disappeared.  This 
will  keep  the  furniture  in  good  condition.  The 
sick  room  should  be  thoroughly  free  from  dust  and 
should  have  a  clean  sweet  odor  about  it.  The 
use  of  deodorizers  is  questionable.  The  source  of 
the   odor   should  be   removed. 


V.     CARE    OF    PATIENT 
Bed   and   Clothing 

The  three-quarter  bed  is  a  convenient  size.  The  mattress  should  not  be  too 
hard  and  should  have  a  perfectly  level  surface.  The  springs  should  be  only  mod- 
erately elastic  and  should  present  a  level  surface.  When  a  protecting  sheet  is  nec- 
essary, a  rubber  sheet  or  an  oil  cloth  protecting  sheet  is  preferable.  In  the  absence 
of  these,  newspapers  may  be  used.  They  should  be  removed  frequently  and  burned. 
Sheets  should  be  at  least  2%  yards  in  length  (this  is  required  by  an  Iowa  state 
law  for  public  beds) .  Pillows  should  be  of  medium  size.  Blankets  are  lighter  and 
more  easily  cleaned  than  quilts. 


Making  the  Bed 
Tuck  in  under  sheet  securely  at  head,  foot  and 
sides,  being  careful  to  make  the  fold  under  the 
mattress  much  deeper  at  the  head  than  at  the 
foot.  This  helps  to  keep  a  smooth  surface  under 
the  shoulders  and  is  a  means  of  preventing  irrita- 
tion of  the  skin.  Place  the  protecting  sheet  of 
rubber,  oilcloth  or  paper  over  the  undersheet,  be- 
ing careful  to  place  it  under  the  trunk  of  the  body. 
Over  this  place  the  draw  sheet,  being  careful  to 
place  the  folded  edge  toward  the  head.  Place  the 
upper  sheet  with  the  wide  hem  toward  the  head. 
Fold  the  top  of  sheet  over  sufficiently  to  cover  the 
edge  of  blanket  (about  12  inches).  Place  blanket 
and  spread  over  top  sheet,  folding  top  sheet  over 
edge  of  blanket  and  spread.  Tuck  clothes  in  se- 
curely at  the  foot.  Begin  at  lower  right  corner 
of  bed.  Lift  upper  sheet,  blanket  and  spread  in  a 
diagonal  fold  from  lower  right  corner  of  bed  to 
edge  of  clothes.  Tuck  in  bedding  below  fold,  until 
the  diagonal  fold  hangs  smoothly.  This  holds  the 
bedding  securely  at  the  foot  and  does  not  hold  too 
firmly   at   the   sides. 

Changing  the  Bed  Clothing 

Have  freshly  aired  and  warmed  bedding  ready 
for  use.  Remove  spread  and  fold  neatly.  Fold 
fresh  draw  sheet.  Fold  fresh  under  sheet  in  long 
fan-like   folds. 

Roll  patient  as  far  toward  the  opposite  edge  of 
the  bed  as  possible.  Loosen  bedding  all  around 
edge  of  the  bed.  Push  soiled  under  sheets,  one  at 
a  time,  close  to  the  back  of  the  patient,  keeping 
them   in  long  straight  folds. 

Place  clean  under  sheets  in  position.  Roll  pa- 
tient to  clean  side  of  bed.  Remove  soiled  under 
sheets,   draw  the  clean  ones  over  and  secure  under 


the  mattress.  Spread  the  fresh  upper  sheet  and 
blanket  over  those  already  on  the  bed  and  draw 
out  the  soiled  ones  from  the  foot  of  the  bed.  Re- 
place spread  and  fold  bedding  at  lower  corner* 
with-  the  diagonal  fold  as  at  first.  Remove  pillow 
and  replace  it  by  a  freshly  aired  pillow  with  clean 
slip.      Remove   soiled    clothing  from   the   room. 

Note:  In  case  of  contagious  diseases,  the  soiled 
bedding  should  be  placed  upon  paper  and  should 
be  carried  out  at  once  for  disinfection.  (Process 
is  described  under  disinfectants.)  In  case  of  di- 
seases like  scarlet  fever  which  enter  the  body 
through  the  air  passages,  the  bedding  should  be 
thoroughly  fumigated  before  being  hung  outside 
to  air.  For  all  bedding  which  can  be  boiled,  boil- 
ing one  hour  is  an  effective  means  of  disinfection. 

SPONGE  BATH  IN  BED 
Equipment — Hot    water,     cold     water,     bowl    of 
warm  water    (98  degrees),   mild  soap,  bath  towel, 
face  towel,  wash  clothes,   mouth  wash. 

Method 

Put  patient  between  light  weight  blankets  and 
remove  clothing  without  exposing  the  patient. 
Wash  and  dry  face  and  neck.  Wash  and  dry  arms, 
chest,    abdomen,    limbs   and   back. 

Precautions 

Rub  firmly  and  dry  thoroughly.  Back  may  be 
rubbed  with  alcohol  and  dusted  with  talcum  pow- 
der. Expose  the  body  as  little  as  possible.  Dry 
each  part  thoroughly  as  soon  as  washed.  Mouth 
should  be  washed  thoroughly. 

Mouth  Wash:  Six  to  eight  drops  of  alcohol  in 
one-half  glass  of  cold  water.  Equal  parts  of  tinc- 
ture of  orris,  rose  water  and  alcohol  may  be  used 
or    a    solution    of    boric    acid.       Listerine    or    lemon 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH— HOME  NURSING 


375 


juice    diluted    with    water    may    be    used    or    equal 
parts  of  lemon  juice  and   glycerine. 
General  Care 

Pulse  and  Temperature:  The  clinical  thermom- 
eter is  of  great  value  to  the  mother  in  the  home. 
To  use  the  thermometer,  shake  down  to  95  de- 
grees, place  bulb  under  tongue,  ask  patient  to 
close  lips   and   hold   thermometer   for   five  minutes. 

To  clean  thermometer,  wash  in  alcohol,  or  a 
carbolic  acid  solution  (1  to  20.)  Wash  thoroughly 
in   cold   water   before   using. 

Temperature 

Normal  temperature,  98.4  to  98.6  degrees  F. 
High  fever,    103  to    105  degrees  F. 

Moderate  fever,  101  to  103  degrees  F.  Sub- 
normal, 97  to  98  degrees  F. 


Note:  About  70  pulse  corresponds  with  98.4 
degrees. 

Respiration:  Notice  the  rise  and  fall  of  the  chest 
in  breathing.  The  normal  respiration  is  from  16 
to    1 8   per   minute. 

Feeding  the  Patient 

Attractiveness  is  an  important  point  to  be  con- 
sidered in  the  preparation  of  meals  for  the  in- 
valid. A  well-planned  tray  is  more  important  than 
the  well-planned  meal  for  the  normal  person.  It 
is  absolutely  necessary  to  study  the  needs  of  the 
patient  and  to  plan  a  well-balanced  meal  to  suit 
that  condition,  being  careful  to  observe  individual 
taste  when  it  does  not  introduce  some  injurious 
food    into    the    meal. 


Alcohol 

Aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia 

Castor    oil 

Epsom  salts 

Lime  water 

Carron  oil  (equal  parts  of  olive  oil  and  lime  water) 

Mustard,   powdered 

Sodium   bicarbonate 

Witch-hazel 

Carbolized  vaseline 

1    bottle  soda  mint  tablets 

I    tin   talcum   powder 


VI.     EMERGENCIES 
Have  the  Following  Equipment 

I    small  package   antiseptic   gauze 
Vz    pound  absorbent   cotton 

6    gauze   roller  bandages    (3    large  and  3   small) 
roll   old   muslin 


1 

I    small  bottle  collodion 
I    pair  scissors 

1    paper  safety  pins    (medium  size) 
Corrosive    sublimate    tablets     (poison).       Keep    in 
bottle  that  cannot  be  mistaken  for  anything  else. 
1    roll  adhesive  tape 
1    pair  small  tweezers 
Small    bottle    iodine 


TREATMENT 


Cuts 

1.  Remove   foreign    matter. 

2.  Wash  with  antiseptic  solution  of  corrosive 
sublimate  (1  tablet  to  pint  of  water).  Solution 
must   be   fresh. 

3.  Boric    acid    solutions. 

4.  Weak  salt  solution  ( 1  teaspoonful  to  pint 
of  water)    or   hydrogen  peroxide. 

5.  Wrap  with  sterile  bandage. 

Burns 
Acid    (except  carbolic). 

1.  Wash  with   water. 

2.  Wash  with  lime  water  or  a  mixture  of  bak- 
ing soda  and  water. 

Note:  If  the  burn  is  from  carbolic  acid,  wash 
in  alcohol. 

3.  Cover  with  carron  oil  (equal  parts  of  lin- 
seed oil  and  lime  water)    and  bandage. 

Alkali Wash  with  water  (neutralize  with  vine- 
gar or  lemon  juice).  Cover  with  oil  as  in  acid 
burns  and  bandage. 

Heat — Cover  with  gauze  wet  in  saturated  solu- 
tion of  baking  soda  or  carron  oil.  Bandage  lightly 
to   exclude   air. 


Sunstroke — Place  patient  in  cold  bath  and  rub 
with  ice.      Ice  water  on  head. 

Lightning  Stroke — Warm  bath  (100  degrees). 
Mustard  plaster  over  heart.  Giving  of  stimulants, 
black  coffee,  1  tablespoon  brandy  to  equal  part 
of  water  or  one-half  teaspoonful  aromatic  spirits 
of   ammonia   to   one-third    glass   of  hot  water. 

Fainting — Lower  head  and  raise  feet.  Loosen 
clothing.  Open  windows.  Dash  cold  water  over 
face.  Rub  limbs  toward  the  body.  If  this  does 
not  restore  consciousness  very  soon,  apply  heat 
and  send  for  a  physician. 

Drowning — To  remove  water  from  body,  hold 
patient  by  the  waist  with  head  down. 

Clear  mouth  of  mucous  and  pull  tongue  forward. 

To  restore  respiration:  Place  patient  on  back. 
Raise  shoulders  by  means  of  a  pillow  or  a  roll  of 
clothing. 

Seize  arms  near  the  elbows.  Extend  horizontally 
and  then  upward  until  the  hands  meet  back  of  the 
head. 

Return  arms  close  to  the  body  until  the  elbows 
meet    over    the    stomach.       Hold    the    arms    in    this 


376       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


position  for  a  few  seconds  and  then  repeat  until 
about  fifteen  respirations  have  been  completed. 
Be  careful  to  keep  the  mouth  open  and  the  tongue 
forward. 

After   consciousness   is    restored: 

Remove  wet   clothing. 

Hot   bath. 

Heat  applied  over  heart. 

Stimulants    given. 

Brisk  rubbing  from  extremities  toward  body. 

Croup — Cover  bed  with  tent-like  cover  (use 
sheet).  Place  funnel  of  paper  in  nose  of  teakettle. 
Fill  the  kettle  with  boiling  water.  Introduce  mouth 
of  funnel  at  back  of  tent,  being  careful  to  have 
the  funnel  at  least  two  feet  above  the  patient. 
Place  hot  fomentations  over  chest  and  round 
throat.      Cause   vomiting  by  means   of   oil. 

POISONS 

Prevention:  Extreme  care  is  necessary.  Be  sure 
that  bottles  are  properly  labeled.  Be  sure  that 
poisons  are  placed  out  of  reach  of  children.  Keep 
poisons  in  a  special  place  to  prevent  accident.  Do 
not  take  medicine  in  a  dark  room.  Look  at  the 
label   before    removing    cork. 

General    Treatment: 

1 .  Emetic   and   cathartic. 

2.  Antidote. 

3.  Stimulant. 
Good  emetics: 

Mustard   and   water. 

Salt  and  water. 

Large  quantity  of  lukewarm  water. 


Good    cathartics: 

Salts    (Epsom    or    Rochelle). 
Castor  oil. 
Syrup    of   Figs. 

Note:     The   disagreeable  taste   of  castor   oil  may 
be    disguised    as    follows: 
1    oz.    castor   oil. 
1    oz.    orange   juice. 
Yl    teaspoonful  baking  soda. 
Mix  and  take  while  foamy. 

Good  stimulants: 
Black  coffee. 

Aromatic  spirits   of  ammonia    {Yl   teaspoonful 
to    J/3    cup  hot  water). 

Remedy  for  Poisons: 

Arsenic Magnesia. 

Sugar  of  Lead Yl   oz-  Epsom  salts. 

Phosphorus Yl   oz*  Epsom  salts    (avoid  oil). 

Strychnine Powdered    charcoal. 

Mercury Whole  beaten   egg. 

Silver  Nitrate Strong   salt   solution. 

Strong  acids  (except  carbolic) — Alkali,  mag- 
nesia, lime,  whiting,  baking  soda  or  one  tablespoon- 
full  of  ammonia  to  two  cups  of  water.  Follow  by 
milk,   eggs,  or  olive  oil. 

Carbolic  acid Rinse  mouth  in  alcohol.      Follow 

by  two  tablespoonsful  of  Epsom  salt. 

Ammonia — Vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Follow  by 
soothing  liquids. 

Poison  Ivy Wash  in  three  per   cent,   solution  of 

boracic  acid  solution.      Follow  by  zinc  ointment. 


EMERGENCIES  IN  GENERAL 

Before  applying  first  aid  methods,  have  a  physician  sent  for.  If  patient  is  on  the  ground 
make  the  bystanders  move  back;  if  the  accident  is  indoors,  open  the  windows;  if  in  a 
crowded  public  place  indoors,   carry  the  patient  to  an  adjoining  room  or  outdoors. 

Fainting — Due  to  bad  air,  mental  shock  from  bad  news,  etc.  Loosen  the  clothing, 
put  a  cloth  wet  in  very  cold  water,  at  back  of  neck,  lay  patient  with  head  slightly  lowered. 
This  treatment,  with  plenty  of  fresh  air,  will  usually  restore  the  patient  quickly.  It  may  be 
advisable  to  give  a  stimulant,  aromatic  ammonia,  if  obtainable,  20  drops  in  a  tabelspoonful 
of  water,  repeated  if  necessary  in  ten  minutes. 

In  Shock,  or  unconsciousness  from  a  profound  excitement  to  the  nervous  system,  in- 
stead of  simple  fainting,  do  not  conclude  that  the  broken  leg  or  open  wound  causing  the 
shock  is  necessarily  of  first  importance.  If  there  is  insensibility,  pallor,  weak  or  absent  pulse, 
or  irregular,   or  feeble  respiration,   this  as  a  rule  must  receive  first  attention. 

Restore  normal  heat,  wrap  patient  in  blankets,  coats  or  rugs,  apply  hot  water  bottles 
or  hot  bricks  or  irons,  and  flannel  wrung  from  hot  water,  to  abdomen  or  extremities,  and 
re-establish  the  circulation.  Use  stimulant,  aromatic  ammonia,  coffee,  brandy,  or  whiskey, 
diluted  properly  in  hot  water,  and  repeat  in  ten  minutes.  A  patient  apparently  wholly  uncon- 
scious -will  often  swallow  if  a  liquid  is  poured  slowly  over  back  of  tongue;  but  watch  out 
not  to  choke  him.     Absolute  quiet. 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH— EMERGENCIES  377 

If  it  is  the  head  that  is  injured,  or  the  patient  is  delirious  or  highly  excited,  avoid 
stimulants;  exert  effort  to  quiet  and  soothe  him.  Do  not  use  a  stimulant  if  there  is  a  hem- 
orrhage. 

Hemorrhage — Place  patient  with  wound  higher  than  the  heart;  if  in  bed  and  the  hem- 
orrhage is  from  lungs,  throat,  nose  or  head,  elevate  the  head  of  the  bed  high  as  possible. 
If  from  the  bowels,  bladder,  abdomen,  or  lower  parts,  elevate  foot  of  bed.  If  from  a  limb, 
elevate  the  limb. 

If  it  is  a  profuse,  throbbing,  spurting  hemorrhage,  lose  no  time;  it  is  probably  direct 
from  a  severed  artery.  Thrust  the  fingers  right  into  the  wound  and  press  tight  against 
where  the  blood  seems  to  issue  and  try  to  stop  the  flow.  Use  a  tourniquet,  if  possible.  A 
very  cold  or  very  hot  clean  compress  is  preferable  to  the  fingers,  but  unsterilized  fingers 
are  better  than  letting  a  patient  bleed  to  death.  Be  sure  to  tell  the  doctor  about  having 
used  the  tourniquet. 

Try  to  find  a  point  away  from  the  wound  where  pressure  will  retard  the  flow  of  blood, 
by  closing  the  blood  vessels  leading  to  it,  and  apply  there  a  firm  bandage,  with  a  hard 
knot  held  and  pressed  tight  at  that  point.      Don't  fail  to  tell  the  doctor  about  the  tourniquet. 

A  Venous  Hemorrhage — usually  from  the  rupture  of  a  varicose  vein — should  have 
pressure  applied  below  the  wound  instead  of  above  it.  It  can  be  determined  by  the  blood 
being  darker,  sometimes  a  purplish  tinge,  and  by  the  fact  that  it  flows  steadily,  not  in 
spurts.  If  in  doubt  tie  both  above  and  below  the  wound.  The  doctor  must  be  advised  of 
the  tourniquet. 

If  the  scalp  is  cut  or  it  is  a  wound  where  the  edges  can  be  brought  together,  clean 
with  hot  water,  boiled  if  possible,  and  close  wound  with  gauze,  hot. 

Artificial  Respiration — Place  patient  face  down,  and  pass  fingers  into  throat  to  remove 
whatever  may  be  obstructing  the  air.  Then  turn  him  over,  pull  the  tongue  out  by  grasping 
it  with  a  cloth — the  fingers  alone  will  slip — and  hold  it  out  and  down.  Put  a  pillow  or 
coat  under  back  so  as  to  slightly  elevate  the  chest.  Stand  at  patient's  head,  grasp  the  arms, 
draw  them  up  until  they  meet  above  head;  lower  the  arms,  make  the  elbows  meet  over 
the  stomach.  Repeat  in  rythmic  motions,  about  four  seconds  for  the  complete  act.  As 
soon  as  normal  respiration  is  established,   treat  for  shock  as  described  above. 

Choking — If  a  child,  and  if  the  fingers  will  not  dislodge  the  obstruction,  swing  the 
patient  by  the  feet,  have  the  back  slapped  sharply,  and  compress  the  chest  with  one  hand 
between  shoulders  and  one  in  front.  If  not  at  once  relieved  run  with  child  to  a  doctor. 
If  adult,  lay  on  stomach. 

Drowning — Empty  the  lungs  by  holding  patient  by  the  stomach  with  head  down,  or 
rolling  him  on  his  stomach  on  a  barrel  or  chair  with  a  coat  or  hard  pillow  in  it.  Then  apply 
the  artificial  respiration  methods  as  above;  finally  the  treatment  for  shock  after  respiration 
is  restored. 

Do  not  give  up  until  a  physician  tells  you  to — not  even  if  the  physician  is  an  hour  in 
coming.  Persons  have  been  resuscitated  from  drowning  an  hour  or  two  after  it  was  thought 
there  was  no  hope. 

A  Broken  Bone — Notify  physician,  then  support  the  broken  member  with  an  impro- 
vised splint,  avoiding  any  pressure  at  the  injured  point;  cover  with  a  cloth  and  keep  it 
wet  with  cold  water;  keep  patient  as  quiet  and  comfortable  as  possible  until  the  doctor 
arrives.      Do  not  try  to  set  the  broken  points  of  the  bone  together. 


378       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 

Sprains — Apply  hot  water  for  an  hour  or  two.  Immerse  ankle,  or  wrist,  in  very  hot 
water  and  increase  heat  of  water  to  the  limit  of  endurance;  keep  it  at  as  hot  temperature 
as  it  can  stand  for  several  hours.  Repeat  daily.  When  relieved  apply  adhesive  strips  or 
bandage  to  support  the  injured  ligaments.      Immobilize;  i.  e.,  see  that  joint  is  immovable. 

Dislocation — Pull  into  position,  if  possible;  a  physician  may  have  to  do  this;  you  may 
simply  have  to  wait  if  one  or  two  trials  are  so  painful  to  the  patient  as  to  show  danger  of 
his  fainting.     Apply  treatment  for  sprains. 

Convlusions  in  Children — Prepare  bath  as  hot  as  can  safely  bear;  add  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  mustard  to  small  tub  of  water.  If  it  can  be  done  more  quickly  wrap  child  in  blanket 
wrung  from  very  hot  water;  use  care  not  to  burn  the  child's  tender  flesh.  Apply  cold  wet 
towel  to  the  head  in  any  event.  Empty  the  bowels  as  quickly  as  it  can  be  done;  best 
method,  an  enema  of  warm  water  with  castile  soap,  or  glycerine  or  olive  oil.  Give  child 
a  teaspoonful  of  ipecac  every  1  5  minutes  or  have  him  drink  warm  water  until  he  vomits,  or 
induce  vomiting  by  other  means. 


EVERYDAY  ACCIDENTS 

Accidents  will  happen  as  long  as  we  are  human.  The  irritating  part  is  that  we  do 
not  expect  them.  They  all  have  one  thing  in  common — they  happen  at  the  wrong  time. 
When  you  have  no  sticking  plaster  you  cut  your  finger.  When  a  child  burns  his  hand 
at  the  bonfire  you  are  without  olive  oil  or  ointment  to  soothe  the  pain.  Be  prepared  in 
time  of  peace. 

A  good  many  serious  results  have  been  avoided  by  having  a  wound  dressed  prop- 
erly in  the  nick  of  time.  Every  household,  that  is  to  say  every  mother,  ought  to  have  a 
little  box,  cabinet  or  other  safe  place  always  filled  with  a  few  essentials  for  emergency  use. 

Sticking  plaster  in  various  sizes  ought  to  be  the  first  thing  in  this  cabinet.  A  small 
bottle  of  olive  oil  comes  next.  It  is  the  open  blister  which  sometimes  causes  tetanus.  Per- 
oxide, carbolic  acid  diluted  at  50  per  cent,  boracic  acid  for  the  eyes  and  to  wash  out  sores 
before  putting  dressing  on,  are  articles  not  to  be  dispensed  with.  Turpentine  is  also  a 
splendid   thing  against   infection   of  sores   from  rusty  nails. 

Do  not  forget  the  almost  inevitable  bottle  of  castor  oil  or  milk  of  magnesia  in  case  of 
fever  and  indigestion.  A  small  quantity  of  essence  of  peppermint  and  spirits  of  ammonia 
should  also  be  added,  because  sick  stomach  is  a  frequent  occurrence  with  the  little  ones. 
A  box  of  bicarbonate  of  soda  and  one  of  Epsom  salts  are  indispensable. 

Liniment  Inflammable — Never  use  a  liniment  near  an  open  flame,  for  a  liniment  usu- 
ally contains  some  substance  of  an  inflammable  nature. 

For  a  Rusty  Nail  Accident  paint  with  tincture  iodine  at  once  on  the  afflicted  part. 

Foreign  Matter  in  the  Eye — If  a  smut  has  only  gone  on  to  the  edge  of  your  eye,  it  is 
quite  easy  to  take  off,  but  if  it  has  got  right  in  it  may  be  difficult  to  move. 

An  excellent  method,  if  you  are  out  of  doors  and  have  no  implements  at  hand,  is  to 
shut  the  good  eye,  hold  down  the  lid  with  your  finger  and  roll  the  bad  eye  as  much  as 
you  possibly  can.  Try  to  look  with  it  right  round  to  one  side  and  then  round  to  the  other 
side.  After  you  have  done  this  for  a  minute  or  so,  wipe  the  eye  carefully  with  a  soft  hand- 
kerchief. You  will  probably  find  that  the  smut  comes  off  on  the  handkerchief,  as  the  roll- 
ing has  shifted  it  to  the  front  and  onto  the  edge  of  the  lid  and  made  it  easy  to  reach. 

Another  way  is  to  close  the  bad  eye  with  your  finger,  leaving  the  good  eye  open. 
Then  blow  your  nose  violently  two  or  three  times.     When  you  open  the  bad  eye  again  you 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH— ACCIDENTS  379 

will  probably  find  that  it  is  quite  comfortable,  and  that  the  smut  has  vanished.     The  tears 
have  washed  it  out. 

If  the  accident  occurs  indoors,  where  there  is  someone  to  help  you,  the  best  way 
of  putting  the  matter  right  is  to  get  some  one  to  dip  a  small  brush  in  castor  oil  and  take 
the  smut  away  with  that.  You  must  use  castor  oil,  not  olive  oil,  which  might  possibly 
injure  the  eye,  and  you  must  have  a  very  soft,clean  brush.  The  patient  should  look  up  to 
the  ceiling  if  the  smut  is  at  the  bottom  of  the  eye,  and  sideways  and  downwards  if  it  is  at 
the  top. 

1  Swallowing  a  Fish  Bone — Swallowing  a  piece  of  dry  bread  or  cracker,  if  a  fish  bone  is 
lodged  in  the  throat,  is  a  good  remedy,  but  the  acid  from  a  lemon  slowly  sucked  and  swal- 
lowed will  dissolve  the  bone  to  a  jelly  so  that  it  will  slip  down  easily. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


380       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


ELBOW  GREASE 

WITH  HOT  WATER  AND  SOAP 

Modern  Army  Practice,  as  taught  in  the  Medical  Officers'  Reserve  Corps,  discards  all  use- 
lessness  and  foolishness.  In  the  Armies  of  the  Allies,  the  entire  question  of  antiseptics 
and  disinfectants  simmers  down  to  about  ten  per  cent  credit  to  two  or  three  simple 
chemicals,  and  ninety  per  cent  soap  and  hot  water  and  ELBOW  GREASE. 

Every  woman  should  read  and  study  the  following  LECTURE,  given  before  the  Med- 
ical Officers'  Reserve  Corps,  Camp  Greenleaf,  Medical  Officers'  Training  Camp,  Fort 
Oglethorpe,  Georgia,  October,    1917.     This  is  army  training  for  medical  officers. 

DISINFECTION  AND  ISOLATION 

By  MAJOR  ABBOTT  of  the  U.  S.  Army 

DO    IT    WELL— DO    IT    CHEERFULLY— DO    IT    NOW 

I  suppose  a  good  many  of  you  men  in  this  audience  have  had  the  experience  of  going  into 
houses  and  being  met  by  a  terrible  stink,  and  when  you  looked  about  you  found  little 
saucers  of  badly  smelling  stuff  under  the  sofa,  under  the  table,  under  the  bed,  around  the 
hallways,  and  other  places.  That  was  one  of  the  old  ways  of  disinfection  and  purifying 
the  atmosphere.  I  may  be  wrong  about  it,  but  I  have  an  idea  it  started  from  the  days  when 
the  only  disinfection  known,  in  which  any  confidence  was  placed,  was  the  burning  of  sul- 
phur; and  in  the  very  old  book  on  quarantine  and  isolation  you  would  see  pictures  of  the 
Health  Doctor  dressed  in  oil  silk  or  leather,  looking  as  if  he  had  on  a  gas  mask  extending 
down  to  his  feet.  He  is  depicted  as  burning  sulphur  in  an  open  brazier  and  going  through 
the  motions  of  purifying  the  atmosphere.  As  funny  as  that  may  be,  it  is  fundamentally  the 
idea  which  Lyster  held.  Lyster  had  the  idea  that  had  existed  for  years  that  the  atmosphere 
reeked  with  living,  infective  germs.  It  was  also  thought  that  round  about  a  person  having  a 
contagious  disease  there  was  always  an  atmosphere  that  was  diseased,  laden  with  disease 
producing  germs.  Today  we  know  that  is  not  so.  It  is  very  doubtful  to  the  minds  of 
many  who  have  studied  this  subject  that  there  is  little  if  any  conveyance  of  disease  by 
the  atmosphere.  The  general  opinion  is  that  conveyance  of  disease  from  one  individual 
to  another  is  by  direct  contact,  or  by  objects  which  have  been  in  immediate  contact  with 
diseased  persons.     I  shall  refer  to  that  later  on. 

PERFECT    NONSENSE  of   surgical   work,    but   such   disinfection    as    is   em- 

I   am   asked   to   speak   on    the    question    of   disin-  ployed   in   contagious  disease.      If  a   person  with   a 

fection  and  isolation.      The   reason   for  this   invita-  contagious  disease   has  occupied  a   room,   and   you 

tion   I  think  is   due   to   the    fact  that  a    great   many  want  the  room  safe  for  somebody  else  to  sleep  in, 

men  think  that  the  spraying  about  of  a  little   for-  y°u    mu3t    destroy    the    specific    disease    producing 

maldehyde  and  raising  a  smell,  which  causes  your  agents.      It   is    not    necessary    to    destroy   all    living 

eyes  to  water,   and   causes   you  to  be  very  uncom-  microscopic     bodies.       The     two     things     are     quite 

fortable    for   a    few    minutes,    is   disinfecting.      It   is  different.      Take,  for  instance,  a  typhoid  stool,  you 

perfect   nonsense;   it  does   not   do   anything   of   the  know  it  is  infective;  that  it  can  be  disinfected  very 

kind.      For  instance,   you  can   fill  a   room  with  the  easily  by  pouring  a  little  boiling  water  on  it,  about 

old  formaldehyde   lamps,   with  which   most   of  you  as  mucn  as  the  amount  of  the  stool,   and  allowing 

are  acquainted,    close   the   room   up   tight,    and    all  il  to  stand  to  cool;  it  is  then  disinfected.      But  it  is 

those  lamps  will  not  generate  enough  formaldehyde  not  sterilized.      We  do  not  care  whether  it  is  steri- 

to   properly    disinfect    that    room.       Let    us    under-  lized  or  not  so   long  as  it   is  incapable   of  convey- 

stand    before    we    begin    what    disinfection    aims    to  inS  typhoid  fever.     That  is  the  distinction  between 

do.      It  aims   to   destroy   infected    matter;   it  is  not  disinfection  and  sterilization.      Deodoration,  as  you 

necessarily    sterilization.       Sterikzation     is     another  all     know,     means     the    destruction     of    bad     odors, 

thing.       In    most    of    your    work,    you    don't    care  Sometimes  bad  odors  creep  in  where  one  has  been 

whether  you   sterilize   or   not.      I   am  not   speaking  careless,  but  as  a  rule  bad  odors  have  no  business 

381 


382       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


to  exist,  and  if  we  are  alert  in  the  matter  of  clean- 
liness there  will  be  no  bad  odors.  Deodorization 
can  be  used  sometimes  where  circumstances  are 
such  that  call  for  its  use,  but  it  does  not  neces- 
sarily disinfect.  It  is  better  to  prevent  the  de- 
velopment of  bad  odors  than  to  try  to  destroy 
them.  Antiseptics,  you  all  know  what  that  means, 
may  or  may  not  be  disinfectants.  Antiseptics  are 
substances  that  prevent  the  growth  of  organism, 
but  are  not  always  germicidal.  It  is  not  my  inten- 
tion to  go  into  the  long  list  of  germicides.  You 
find  every  book  filled  with  them,  but  my  intention 
this  morning  is  to  bring  the  matter  down  to  the 
simplest  basis  and  to  see  what  we  can  do  with  the 
things  always  at  hand.  You  will  have  no  manu- 
facturing chemist  at  hand  on  the  march  or  in 
camp,  and  you  will  have  to  get  results  with  what 
you  have  at  hand.  Let  us  discuss  for  a  few  min- 
utes the  way  in  which  disinfectants  act.  We  can 
begin  by  stating  that  there  is  no  necessity  what- 
ever for  trying  to  disinfect  the  atmosphere;  the 
atmosphere  is  probably  not  infected;  and  if  it  were, 
I  doubt  if  we  could  disinfect  it  with  the  means  at 
our  disposal. 

NO   ATMOSPHERIC   DISINFECTION 

Lyster,    in    his   early    laboratory   work,    operated 
under  a  carbolic  acid  spray,  the  idea  being  that  the 
atmosphere   was    alive    with   living    germs    and    the 
spraying  killed   them.      We   know  now   that  the  at- 
mosphere  is   not   alive   with   germs.      In    order   for 
a   disinfectant   to   act,    it   must   come   in    immediate 
contact   with   the   germ   to   be    killed.      We   do   not 
know  as  much  as  we  would  like  of  the  philosophy 
of   disinfection,    but   we    know    sufficient    to    justify 
this    statement,    if    we    destroy    germs    by    chemical 
disinfectants,    there   has   been   a   destructive   union. 
When,  for  example,  corrosive  sublimate  is  used  for 
the   purpose   of    killing    germ    life,    we    find   that   a 
definite    amount    of    the    salt    will    kill    a    definite 
amount    of    germs.       Just    as    a    certain    amount    of 
hydrochloric  acid  will  neutralize  a   certain  amount 
of  caustic  soda.     Both  factors  in  such  a  union  have 
lost  their   characteristics.      But  if   you   have  an   in- 
fected  stool   and    mix   corrosive    sublimate   with   it, 
the  chances  are  a   great  part,   if  not  all  of  it,   will 
combine    with    protoid    material,     other    than    the 
infected    germ,    and   you   may   or   may   not  accom- 
plish what   you   have   set   out  to  do.      Some   of  the 
germicides    act    as    protoplosnic    poisons.       Hydro- 
cyanic   acid,    for   instance,    acts   in    that   way   in   all 
probability.      They    combine   with    material,    but    its 
action   is   not   quite    clear.      Nevertheless,    it    results 
in  the  death  of  the   germ.      Then  we   have  the  oxi- 
dizing and  reducing  agents,  and  the  elements  react- 
ing   for    the    disassociating    action    of    the    electric 
current.       We    know    sea    water    is    not    germicidal, 
but,    suppose   we   pass   an    electric    current    through 
the   sea   salt.      By  that  we  disassociate   the   halogen 
compounds    and    in    the    nascent    they    are    active 
germicides.       As    a    matter    of    fact,    if    the    electric 


current  be  passed  through  rain  sewerage,  reeking 
with  living  germs,  you  bring  about  a  complete  dis- 
infection of  it  through  such  disassociation  of  salts 
contained  in  it. 

THE  ACTION  OF  SUNLIGHT 

Then,  we  have  sunlight.  We  cannot  explain 
how  sunlight  acts,  but  we  know  it  does,  but  it  only 
acts  under  certain  conditions,  and  in  a  very  limited 
degree.  We  have  all  been  taught  that  fresh  air 
and  sunlight  are  great  purifiers.  If  you  take  a 
clear  transparent  gelatine,  such  as  is  used  in  labo- 
ratories, and  inoculate  that  gelatine  with  thou- 
sands of  bacteria,  and  put  part  of  it  in  a  shadow 
and  the  other  where  the  sun  can  strike  it  under 
the  most  favorable  conditions  you  will  find  after 
exposure  of  half  an  hour  that  many  of  the  germs 
that  have  been  exposed  to  the  sunlight  will  not 
grow,  and  those  under  the  shadow  will  grow  abun- 
dantly. Such  observations  led  to  some  very  inter- 
esting experiments  with  furs  and  textiles,  which 
could  not  be  disinfected  with  heat  or  chemicals 
without  destroying  them.  The  results  of  these  ex- 
periments were  of  no  practical  use.  It  was  found 
that  after  purposely  infected  furs  had  been  placed 
in  the  direct  sunlight  for  varying  lengths  of  time 
only  the  tips  of  the  furs  were  disinfected.  In  other 
words,  the  slight  shadow  cast  by  the  hairs  a  short 
distance  down  into  the  fur  protected  the  sun  s 
action.  While  interesting,  the  experiment  was  of 
no  practical  use.  Now,  we  come  to  the  universal 
purifier,  upon  which  you  can  always  rely,  and 
practically  always  get;  that  is  heat. 

THE  UNIVERSAL  PURIFIER— HEAT 

On  the  road  and  in  camp  we  can  always  get 
fire  and  hot  water.  Don't  think  it  necessary  to  burn 
all  infected  objects.  It  is  often  easier  to  burn  use- 
less infected  objects  than  to  disinfect  them.  Use 
heat  so  as  to  disinfect  without  destroying.  It  is 
not  always  necessary  to  use  the  excessive  grades 
of  heat  we  are  sometimes  told.  You  have  to  re- 
member that  not  all  germs  are  equally  resistant, 
and  it  is  interesting  to  note  that  those  most  lowly 
resistant  are  the  ones  we  deal  with  most  frequently. 
Very  few  of  the  known  disease  producing  germs  are 
of  high  resistance.  The  anthrax  germ  is  of  high 
resistance,  but  only  very  rarely  encountered  in  our 
work.  The  tetanus  germ  is  resistant,  but  we  com- 
bat its  lethal  activities  with  antitoxin,  and  on  all 
the  fronts  we  have  a  supply  of  antitoxin.  Cholera, 
typhoid  fever,  dysentery,  diphtheria,  etc.,  are  lowly 
resisting  germs.  They  do  not  even  require  boiling 
water  for  their  destruction.  The  reason  why  the 
term  boiling  water  is  used,  is  to  eliminate  the  use 
of  a  thermometer.  If  you  have  an  orderly  who 
has  never  been  trained  in  the  laboratory,  and  you 
tell  him  to  bring  the  temperature  of  water  to  70 
or  75°  C,  he  may  not  know  what  75°  C.  means, 
and  you  do  not  always  have  a  thermometer  at 
hand;  but  if  you  tell  him  to  boil  it,  he  knows  what 


FAMILY  DOCTOR— HEALTH— ELBOW  GREASE 


383 


it  means.  If  you  have  a  thermometer  about  you, 
and  desire  not  to  seriously  injure  objects  being 
disinfected,  you  can  disinfect  practically  everything 
you  want  if  you  expose  them  to  ■water  of  80°  C. 
temperature  for  half  an  hour. 

DISINFECTING    WITH    STEAM 

Another  means  of  disinfecting  by  moist  heat  is 
steam.  You  ask,  how  are  we  to  get  steam  on  the 
road?      With  a  very  little  ingenuity  you  can  make 

steam  sterilizer,  if  you  remember  that  it  is  only 
a  glorified  potato  steamer,  such  as  is  in  every 
kitchen;  a  tin  can  with  a  perforated  false  bottom, 
6  inches  from  the  bottom  of  the  can,  and  a  cover 
to  the  can,  makes  an  excellent  sterilizer.  About 
4  inches  of  water  in  the  can,  the  false  bottom  put 
in  place  and  the  objects  to  be  sterilized  put  into 
the  chamber,  the  can  covered  and  put  on  the  fire 
and  the  water  kept  boiling  for  one-half  hour  is  all 
that  is  needed.  That  is  only  a  modication  of  the 
Serbian  barrel  you  have  seen  referred  to  in  the 
books.  The  Serbian  barrel  is  only  a  barrel  with 
a  cover  and  holes  in  the  bottom.  It  is  placed, 
after  being  filled  with  obects  to  be  disinfected  and 
covered — over  a  receptacle  containing  boiling 
water.  The  cracks  between  barrel  and  water  re- 
ceptacle are  plastered  up  with  mud  and  the  steam 
allowed  to  pass  through  the  barrel  for  the  required 
time.  You  can  make  one  in  a  few  minutes,  and 
there  is  no  reason  in  the  world  why  it  should  not 
do  the  work.  Boiling  water  is  one  of  the  most 
useful  things  you  can  use,  you  can  get  it  anywhere. 
I  am  not  speaking  about  disinfecting  surgical  in- 
struments in  the  operating  room,  but  of  what  you 
can  do  and  must  do  on  the  road. 

DISINFECTION  AND  ISOLATION 

Another  question  comes  up  in  connection  with 
this  matter.  To  what  extent  are  you  going  to  use 
disinfectants,  and  to  what  extent  are  you  to  try 
isolation  when  cases  of  infectious  diseases  break 
out  among  troops?  You  will  not  be  supplied  with 
equipment  such  as  you  find  in  our  big  municipal 
hospitals  for  the  care  of  contagious  disease.  Can 
anything  be  done  to  prevent  the  spread  of  disease? 
I  think  it  can,  and  usually  without  much  disinfec- 
tion at  all.  I  suppose  if  I  were  to  say  to  most  men 
in  this  audience,  "I  "will  take  you  into  an  operating 
room,  shall  not  give  you  any  chemicals  at  all,  and 
I  want  you  to  define  a  reasonably  safe  aseptic 
system,"  I  don't  believe  there  is  a  man  in  the  audi- 
ence who  could  not  write  out  a  reasonably  safe 
system.  If  you  remember  that,  when  the  time 
comes  to  care  for  germ  infective  cases  you  can 
easily  win  the  fight.  In  many  hospitals  now  the 
contagious  diseases  are  isolated  by  housing  them 
in  separate  buildings,  or  in  a  separate  part  of  the 
building,  and  for  convenience,  this  is  desirable. 
But  it  is  not  a  necessity.  Unless  you  are  absolutely 
careful  of  every  aseptic  detail  you  and  your  nurses 


will  serve  as  a  transmitter.  In  my  own  judgment 
careless  doctors  and  attendants  are  the  great  trans- 
mitters of  disease.  I  expect  that  is  an  extremely 
unpleasant  statement,  but  when  you  examine  into 
the  facts,  I  think  you  will  agree  with  me.  A  man 
who  does  not  carry  out  on  himself  and  insist  that 
his  associates  and  aids  do  likewise  the  most  scrupu- 
lous aseptic  precautions,  is  more  apt  to'  carry  in- 
fection to  the  next  person,  than  any  amount  of 
infected  air,  so-called.  Doctors  and  nurses  must 
not  only  be  informed  on  what  is  meant  by  surgical 
aseptic,  but  must  practice  it  by  keeping  themselves 
and  all  appliances  surgically  clean.  Just  now  we 
have  a  few  cases  of  measles  in  camp.  There  is  a 
general  opinion  that  the  most  infectious  stage  of 
measles  is  during  the  catarrhal  condition  that  pre- 
cedes the   eruption. 

MEASLES   AN    ILLUSTRATION 

We  do  not  recognize  measles  when  it  is  most 
infective.  When  aware  that  it  is  measles,  what 
should  we  remember?  We  are  to  remember  that 
the  infectious  material  from  that  case  is  not,  as 
we  were  formerly  taught,  blowing  about  by  the 
air,  but  we  are  to  remember  that  the  infectious 
material  of  that  disease  has  leaked  away  from  the 
patient  through  the  eyes,  nose  and  mouth,  and  so 
far  as  we  know,  nowhere  else.  Consequently,  all 
the  bed  clothing,  the  pillow  slips  and  body  cloth- 
ing of  that  individual  are  the  things  infected,  and 
probably  the  only  things.  Any  man,  woman  or 
child,  with  whom  that  individual  has  come  in  con- 
tact are  to  be  isolated  and  kept  under  observation 
until  we  know  whether  they  have  or  have  not 
measles.  When  that  is  done,  you  have  done  all 
you  can  do.  That  is  all  there  is  to  it.  There  is 
no  sense  whatever  in  burning  a  lot  of  sulphur  and 
putting  out  formaldehyde  in  cases  of  that  kind. 
The  bed  clothing,  body  clothing  and  pillow  slips 
can  be  boiled  and  that  is  all  that  you  can  do.  By 
doing  that  and  isolating  contacts  outbreaks  of 
measles  can  be  held  up.  If  you  consult  the  daily 
reports  in  headquarters  office,  you  will  see  for 
two  months  we  have  had  an  occasional  case  of 
measles,  but  we  have  had  no  spread.  It  would  be 
a  serious  matter  for  us  to  have  an  outbreak  of 
measles  in  this  camp  at  the  present  time. 

Pneumonia  following  measles  is  a  serious  mat- 
ter, and  we  could  not  properly  care  for  a  large 
number  of  measles  cases  under  our  present  sur- 
roundings, but  by  putting  into  practice  the  simple 
method  of  isolation  of  contacts  for  a  period  of 
observation,  and  the  boiling  of  body  clothing  and 
bed   clothing,    it  can  be   kept  down. 

DIPHTHERIA,   TYPHOID,   SMALLPOX 

Similarly  with  diphtheria.  We  know  that  in 
cases  of  diphtheria  the  infectious  matter  comes 
from  the  throat  and  nowhere  else;  nothing  from 
the  skin,  nothing  from  the  urine,  and  nothing  from 
the  bowels.      It  is  the  same  way  in  cases  of  typhoid 


384        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


fever,  dysentery  and  cholera.  The  infectious 
agents  do  not  come  from  the  skin,  they  are  not 
breathed  out,  not  coughed  out,  but  they  come  from 
the  bowels  and  urine  in  cases  of  typhoid  fever,  and 
from  the  bowels  only  in  cases  of  cholera  and  dys- 
entery. You  have  but  to  disinfect  the  excreta.  You 
can  use  almost  anything  you  please,  chloride  of 
lime  is  oiie  of  the  very  best  and  cheapest  and  one 
of  the  most  effective  things  we  have.  When  we 
come  to  smallpox,  1  trust  you  don't  encounter  it,  but 
if  you  do  it  is  your  own  fault,  and  1  hope  you  may 
have  all  the  inconvenience  possible,  for  you  can 
prevent  it  by  seeing  that  every  man  in  your  com- 
mand is  successfully  vaccinated.  Don't  take  the 
man's  word  when  he  says  he  has  already  been 
vaccinated  several  times  and  it  don't  take.  1  have 
had  that  said  to  me  time  and  time  again.  In  most 
cases  I  have  found  that  if  the  operation  be  properly 
performed  and  trustworthy  virus  used  a  successful 
vaccination    results. 

I  think  from  what  I  have  said  you  will  see  that 
the  principles  of  isolation  are  rather  simple.  You 
must  know  how  the  infectious  matters  leave  the 
body;  how  they  invade  other  bodies,  and  that  it  is 
not  necessary  to  have  elaborate  apparatus  for  the 
destruction.  Suppose  we  were  all  on  the  march 
with  troops  and  had  nothing  but  soap  and  water 
for  washing  purposes  and  infectious  diseases  ap- 
peared. Could  we  prevent  the  spread  of  such  dis- 
eases and  render  tents  and  bedding  safe  for  the 
use  of  other  men? 

HOT  WATER,  SOAP  AND  ELBOW  GREASE 

I  do  not  believe  that  there  is  any  method  of  dis- 
fection  that  is  better  than  hot  water,  soap  and 
elbow  grease.  Of  course,  we  cannot  take  house- 
wives on  the  road  with  us,  but  if  we  could  I  would 
turn  the  housewives  loose  and  let  them  "house- 
clean."  Any  germ  that  can  resist  the  house-clean- 
ing process  deserves  to  live.  If  all  of  you  will 
tackle  a  shack  or  a  tent  and  clean  it  the  same 
vigorous  way  a  woman  cleans  up  a  house  when 
she  puts  her  mind  on  it,  it  will  be  a  perfectly  safe 
place  to  sleep,  and  I  wouldn't  hesitate  to  sleep 
there,  or  let  my  children  sleep  there.  There  is  no 
better  way  to   rid   quarters   of  danger   than   that. 

What  is  the  effect  of  airing  quarters)  Does  the 
air  have  any  effect  in  destroying  germs?  Only 
indirectly.  Very  few  of  the  infective  organisms 
with  which  we  are  acquainted  will  stand  drying 
for  any  length  of  time.  None  of  them  will  with- 
stand absolute  drying,  except  in  the  spore  stage. 
The  atmosphere  has  a  drying  effect.  Sunlight  has 
a  psychological  effect;  soap  and  water  and  elbow 
grease  has  a  real  effect.  As  most  important  ad- 
juncts we  have  bacterial  prophylactic  vaccines  and 
the  anti  sera.  Cleaning  up,  the  use  of  prophylactic 
inoculations,  vaccines  and  anti  sera,  aseptic  hand- 
ling of  cases  and  the  isolation  of  contacts  for  ob- 
servation will  usually  solve  most  of  our  difficulties. 


USEFUL  GERMICIDES 

As  to  useful  germicides  the  list  may  be  small. 
All  of  the  caustic  alkalis  are  germicidal.  Ordinary 
unslaked  lime  is  an  excellent  disinfectant.  When 
unslaked  lime  is  mixed  with  the  mass  until  it  reacts 
alkaline,  the  mass  is  disinfected  in  two  or  three 
hours.  It  is  not  sterilized,  we  don't  care  about 
that,  but  it  is  disinfected.  Lime  is  usually  sup- 
plied, because  it  is  cheap,  non-poisonous  and  ef- 
fective. 

Acids  possess  a  germicidal  action.  Nitric  acid 
and  sulphuric  acid,  and  many  of  the  organic  acids 
possess  this  property.  Certain  salts  are  used,  but 
I  would  not  suggest  the  routine  use  as  they  are 
uncertain  in  their  action.  I  cannot  do  better  than 
advise  you  to  pin  some  faith  to  chloride  of  lime 
and  freshly  slaked  lime  as  two  of  the  best. 

GASEOUS    DISINFECTANTS 

As  to  gaseous  disinfectants.  One  that  is  used 
is  sulphur  dioxide.  For  a  century  or  more  sulphur 
dioxide  was  the  only  gaseous  disinfectant  used,  and 
we  believed  in  it;  but  investigations  show  that  in 
its   dry   state   it   has   very   little    germicidal   value. 

It  is  known  that  if  steam  be  introduced  into  the 
room  with  the  sulphur  dioxide  we  have  a  germi- 
cide, but  you  bleach  everything  in  the  room.  The 
brass  work  is  tarnished,  and  as  a  result  it  is  ob- 
jectionable. Sulphur  dioxide  is  now  limited  large- 
ly, not  to  disinfecting  purposes,  but  to  the  purpose 
of  getting  rid  of  vermin,  for  the  destruction  of 
rats,  mice  and  insects,  and  there  is  probably  noth- 
ing better.  Another  gaseous  disinfectant  that  I 
know  none  of  you  will  use,  yet  it  has  a  high  ger- 
micidal power,  is  hydrocyanic  acid.  It  is  a  very 
deadly  poison,  as  you  all  know.  In  the  hands  of 
other  than  a  trained  and  competent  laboratory 
man  hydrocyanic  acid  should  not  be  used. 

THE  FORMALDEHEYDE  DELUSION 

We  thought  the  millennium  had  been  reached 
when  formaldehyde  was  introduced.  It  came  to 
us  as  a  gas  that  had  wonderful  power.  As  for- 
maldeheyde  gas  is  incompletely  burned  methol 
alcohol,  we  burned  wood  alcohol  under  such  cir- 
cumstances that  combustion  was  incomplete,  and 
we  thought  we  had  sufficient  formaldeheyde  to  do 
the  work.  So  formaldeheyde  lamps  were  sold  to 
all  of  us.  In  five  minutes  sufficient  formaldeheyde 
was  generated  to  start  our  eyes  watering,  and  we 
supposed  germs  were  being  killed.  But  it  soon 
became  evident  that  none  of  the  lamps  generated 
sufficient  formaldeheyde  to  disinfect  a  room.  When 
that  fact  was  made  known  larger  lamps  were  made, 
but  with  little  or  no  advance.  The  next  step  taken 
was  the  disengagement  of  formaldeheyde  from  its 
solution.  Apparatus  was  devised  in  which  the 
formaldeheyde  solution  was  subjected  to  high  heat 
— the  gas  thus  disengaged  was  led  into  the  closed 
room  by  a  tube  passed  through  the  keyhole.     The 


FAMILY  DOCTOR— HEALTH— ELBOW  GREASE 


385 


best  of  such  plans  did  not  accomplish  more  than 
85%  of  disinfection;  it  did  not  render  free  of  dan- 
ger over  over  85  of  I  00  purposely  infected  articles 
placed  in  the  room.  Then  it  was  suggested  to  try 
out  the  old  plan  of  using  the  spray,  or  a  modifica- 
tion of  it.  It  has  been  found  by  experiments  and 
otherwise,  that  equal  parts  of  saturated  solution  of 
formaldeheyde  and  water,  when  atomized  over  all 
horizontal  surface  of  a  room,  in  closets,  in  bureau 
drawers  and  bedding,  will  completely  disinfect  a 
closed  and  sealed  room  in  from  six  to  eight  hours. 
The  method  has  one  defect;  it  is  painful  to  the 
muscus  membranes  and  in  susceptible  persons 
causes  deomatitis.  The  irritation  of  the  mucuous 
membrane  is  not  a  serious  matter.  The  most  effec- 
tive way  I  know  of  for  applying  formaldeheyde  is 
in  water,  equal  parts  of  formaldeheyde  and  water 
sprayed  on  in  a  house  with  an  atomizer,  so  you  can 
get  the  combined  action  of  formaldeheyde  in  solu- 
tion, and  of  the  gas  that  is  disengaged  from  it. 

If  1  bring  you  any  message  at  all  in  this  lecture, 
it  is  this:  that  you  can  get  results  by  ordinary 
house-cleaning  methods. 

ISOLATION 

Some  of  you  have  doubtless  read  those  inter- 
esting articles  by  Dr.  Chapin,  of  Rhode  Island. 
He  has  been  advocating  the  abandonment  of  ter- 
minal disinfection.  I  think  he  is  right.  He  strong- 
ly advocates  the  abandonment  of  many  former 
methods  of  isolation.  He  maintains  that  one  can 
keep  various  infective  cases  side  by  side  in  the 
same  hospital  ward  without  any  transmission. 
About  two  years  or  more  before  Dr.  Chapin  whote 


those  articles,  large  hospitals  in  France  and  Eng- 
land had  fully  proven  out  that  point.  They  had 
simply  taken  large  wards,  separated  these  cases 
one  from  the  other,  not  by  partitions,  but  by 
screens,  had  them  all  in  the  same  room.  They 
had  specially  trained  attendants,  who  had  been 
trained  in  surgical  asepsis.  A  nurse,  when  she 
was  in  attendance  upon  a  case  of  measles,  for  in- 
stance, knew  perfectly  well  what  was  expected  of 
her  before  she  went  to  attend  a  case  of  diphtheria, 
etc.  She  wore,  when  she  attended  a  case  of 
measles,  an  overslip  to  cover  her  clothing,  her  hair 
was  also  covered,  and  when  she  left  the  case  she 
left  her  overslip  in  the  measles  room.  Her  hands 
were  washed  with  soap  and  water,  and  if  need  be, 
disinfected.  She  then  could  go  safely  to  the  scarlet 
fever  case  and  put  on  the  gown  she  should  wear 
with  that  case,  and  when  she  left  that  case  she 
could  go  to  the  diphtheria  case.  The  records  of 
those  hospitals  has  shown  that  in  not  one  instance 
has  there  been  any  more  mixed  infection  or  trans- 
mission of  infection  where  these  methods  have  been 
used  than  by  the  old  methods  which  involved  great 
expenditures,  and  which  have  been  found  to  be 
often  defective.  So,  we  are  coming  now,  I  think, 
to  see  these  things  in  a  very  common  sense  way. 

CONCLUSION 

If  we  know  where  the  infection  occurs,  know 
the  places  through  which  the  infectious  agents 
escape  from  the  individual,  and  know  the  agents 
by  which  these  infectious  agents  can  be  killed,  we 
will  realize  that  we  can  control  these  cases  with- 
out elaborate  equipment. 


ANIMALS  CONCERNED  IN  TRANSMITTING   DISEASES 

From  Medical  War  Manual  No.    1,   Sanitation  for  Medical  Officers, 
By  EDWARD  B.  VEDDER,  M.D.,  Lieut.-Col.,  Medical  Corps,  U.  S.  A. 

NOTE— For  the  extermination  of  insect.,  see  SECTION  V— CONVENIENCES— MICE,  INSECTS. 

VERMIN beginning  on  page  325 


Human  Diseases  Are  Carried: 
I  .    By  the  Dog: 
Rabies 

Foot-and-Mouth  Disease 
Helminthiasis 
Flukes 
Tapeworms 
Infantile    Splenomegaly 

2  .    By  the  Cow : 

Tuberculosis 
Actinomycosis 
Anthrax 
Cow-pox 

Tetanus    (through  vaccine) 
Foot-and-Mouth    Disease 
Septic  Sore  Throat    (in  milk  of  cows  suf- 
fering from  Mastitis) 
Rabies   (rare) 
Tenia   Saginata 

3  .    By  the  Horse: 

Glanders 
Rabies   (rare) 
Tetanus 
Sporotrichosis 
Anaphylaxis 

Serum  Sickness,  acute  anaphylaxis  after 
use   of  antitoxins,   odor  of   horses 

4 .    By  Swine : 

Trichiniasis 
Tenia  Solium 
Tuberculosis    (rare) 


5 .  By  Sheep : 

Anthrax 

6.  By  Goats: 

Malta  Fever 


7  .    By  the  Antelope 

Sleeping  Sickness 

8.    By  the  Cat 
Rabies 
Cestodes 
Trematodes 


9.    By  Rats: 

Bubonic  Plague    (through   fleas) 
Trichiniasis    (through  hogs  to  man) 
Rat-Bite  Fever 

1  0  .    By  Ground  Squirrels 
Bubonic  Plague 

I  1  .    By  Birds: 

Psittacosis    (from  parrots) 

12.  By  Fish: 

Cestodes 

13.  By   Anthropods,    chiefly   Insects: 

Ticks  and  Mites 

Rocky  Mountain  Spotted  Fever 
African   Relapsing   Fever 
Japanese  Fever   (mite) 

Mosquitoes: 
Yellow  Fever 
Malaria 
Filariasis 
Dengue 

Fleas: 

Bubonic   Plague 
Infantile  Splenomegaly 
Trench  Fever 

Lice: 

Typhus  Fever 

European   Relapsing   Fever 

Flies : 

Sandfly  Fever  or  Pappataci  Fever 
Sleeping   Sickness   or   Trypanosomiasis 
Typhoid  and  other  Infections 

Crustaceans: 

Guinea     Worm,      Dracunculosis,      trans 
mitted  by  the  cyclops 

MoIIusks: 

Typhoid  Fever   transmitted   by  Oysters. 

Clams,   etc. 
Trematode     Infections,     transmitted     by 
Snails 


386 


DIET  FOR  INVALIDS 

SOME  TEMPTING,  NOURISHING,  EASILY  DIGESTED  DISHES 
FOR  THE  SICK  AND  CONVALESCENT 

(From  Iowa  State  College   Bulletin,    "Home  Nursing") 
Invalid  diet  is  classified  as: 
I.      Liquid:   Including  broths,  milk,  cocoa,  cream  soups. 

ill      I^j01?1  :1In1cluding  soft  cooked  eggs,  milk  toast,  custards. 
111.     bond:     Including  cereals,  eggs,  vegetables,  meat,  desserts. 

The  doctor  will  prescribe  the  diet  and  the  nurse  must  see  that  it  is  properly 
prepared  and  served.  She  should  never  consult  the  patient  as  to  his  diet.  If  he 
should  express  a  desire  for  a  certain  food  which  is  allowable,  it  may  be  served  at 
the  next  meal. 

u  J^T  ^raging  in  the  tray.  have  the  patient  ready  for  the  meal— face  and 
hands  bathed  and  pillows  adjusted.  If  an  invalid's  table  is  not  available,  a  pile  of 
magazines  may  be  put  on  each  side  of  the  patient's  knees  on  which  to  set  the  tray. 
I  he  tray  should  be  made  just  as  attractive  as  possible— never  crowded.  It  is  bet- 
ter to  serve  too  little  and  bring  more  on  request  than  to  destroy  the  appetite  with 
an  overloaded  tray.     Serve  hot  foods  hot  and  cold  foods  cold. 

Some  foods  though  not  especially  nourishing  are  useful  as  stimulants  to  the 
appetite.  Among  these  are  fruit  beverages,  beef  tea  and  oysters.  Milk  and  eggs 
are  the  main  articles  of  food  m  soft  diet.  These  should  both  be  cooked  at  a  low 
temperature  because  of  the  albumen,  which  is  rendered  very  indigestible  by  boiling 

Lfr    r°fst.sJ?°uId  be  c"sP  all  through,  not  just  browned  on  surface.     It  may  be 
softened  with  hot  milk  or  water. 

Cereals  should  be  thoroughly  cooked. 

Cream  soups  add  variety  to  the  milk  diet. 

fod^Sd  foSrnfIatin  and  iC6S'  fUmish  ^  ^^^  meanS  °f  SCTvine  U«uid 

SOME   INVALID   RECIPES 

2  f  kT    Eg8?°8— '     egg>     '     tab'«P°°nf«l    sugar,  (cold)    and   shake   mixture   again.      Place  the  bot- 

Lgar tnd  ^         Bea'f      hT   ^    ^    ^  W3™   to   **   *""">■      ™'  b°«>«  °*">uU   remain   in 

uice    to    v   ,1         ?  ?    °,     eg8'      AdJ    graPC  W3ter   5    *°    ,0    minut«   -   di-<=ted   by  physician. 

Em  it  psz;lzi over  eeg  white-    f0\t  r?  in time>  p,aced  th\boL upon icc 

p  to  check  further  digestion  and  to   keep  milk  from 

tgg  Lemonade — 1    egg,    I    cup  cold  water,  juice  spoiling. 
I   lemon,   3   tablespoonfuls  sugar.      Beat  eggs  thor- 
oughly, add  sugar  and  strained  lemon  juice.      Add  Beef  Br°* — 2    lbs.    meat   from    the    shoulder   or 

water  gradually  and  stir  until  well  mixed,  and  serve  snin'    2    1ds-    bone,    3    quarts    cold   water,    1 Y2    tea- 

cold-  spoonfuls    salt.       Cut    the    meat    into    small    pieces 

Lemon    Whey—  <4     cup    milk,    2    tablespoonfuls  *"*  PUt  £t  with  the   cracked  •>">«  into   kettle  and 

lemon    juice.       Add    lemon    juice    to    milk    and    let  COVer  with  coId  water-     Set  in  slow  oven  and  cook 

stand  5  minutes.      Strain  through  double  thickness  fr°m  8  to   ,2  "ours.     Strain  through  colander,  add 

of  wet  cheese  cloth.  sa'1  to   taste   and   cool   quickly;  when   cold    remove 

Peptonized    Milk-Contents    of    one    Fairchild's  J"  .**     ^"t  ™f  aS  \^Y'  °r  h<5at  to  the  sim" 

Peptonizing   tube,     .    cup   cold  water,    1    pint  milk.  "^  P°'nt  ^  ^  "0t  b°,L 

?Z   ^    Pef'°nizinS   P°wder    ^to    a    q^rt    bottle,  Note:    Reheat  in  double  boiler;  not  direct  heat, 

add    the    cold    water    and    shake    well.       Add    milk  as  it  coagulates  albumen. 

387  :•„    ;    . 


388     THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


Chicken  Broth — Cut  2  lbs.  chicken  into  pieces; 
cover  with  2  quarts  cold  water;  add  1  small  onion, 
simmer  three  hours  or  until  meat  is  tender.  Re- 
move meat,  cool  stock,  remove  fat,  reheat  and 
add   %   cups  cooked  rice.      Season  and  serve. 

Egg  Broth — I  cup  hot  meat  broth,  I  egg,  Yl 
teaspoonful  salt.  Beat  the  white  and  yolk  of  egg 
separately.  To  the  yolk  add  gradually  the  hot 
broth,  stirring  constantly.  Add  salt  and  fold  in 
well   beaten   white.      Reheat   and   serve. 

Raw  Beef  Sandwich — Scrape  beef  with  dull  knife, 
place  between  buttered  slices  of  bread.  Cut  in 
fancy  shapes.  Toast  in  oven.  (Meat  for  this  pur- 
pose  must   be   inspected). 

Fruit  Whip — 4  tablespoonfuls  fruit  pulp,  white 
of  1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  lemon 
juice  to  taste.  Beat  white  of  egg  until  stiff,  add 
pulp,  sugar,  and  lemon  juice  to  taste.  Beat  until 
stiff.      Serve  with   boiled   custard. 

Oat  Jelly — Yi  cup  rolled  oats,  |4  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  Yl  CUPS  boiling  water.  Add  oats  mixed  with 
salt  to  boiling  water  gradually.  Boil  2  minutes, 
then  steam  in  double  boiler  45  minutes  to  I  hour. 
Force  through  a  fine  strainer,  mould,  chill  and 
serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Note:  When  the  jelly  begins  to  harden,  add  1 
tablespoonful  dissolved  gelatin  and  Yl  cup  whipped 
cream,  mould  in  small  cups  and  serve  with  straw- 
berries and  cream  as  a  dessert  or  as  a  breakfast 
dish. 

Poached  Eggs — Eggs  for  poaching  should  be  as 
fresh  as  possible.  If  not  perfectly  fresh,  the 
tendency  to  flatten  may  be  overcome  by  adding 
a  small  amount  of  vinegar  to  the  water  in  which 
they  are  cooked.  They  may  also  be  kept  round 
by  stirring  the  water  until  it  is  whirling  vigorously 
and  dropping  the  egg  into  it. 

Salt  may  be  used  instead  of  vinegar;  the  eggs 
thereafter  need  not  be  salted  at  table. 

Eggs  Scrambled  in  Milk— 2  eggs,  2  slices  toast, 
1/8  teaspoonful  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  milk,  1  tea- 
spoonful butter.     Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately, 


add  salt  to  yolks.  Fold  in  whites.  Add  to  hot  milk 
and  pour  into  a  buttered  pan.  Cook  until  creamy, 
stirring  and  scrapeing  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
as  it  thickens. 

Beef  Broth  Custard — %  cup  beef  broth,  2  eggs, 
Ya  cup  ground  carrot,  1  tablespoon  chopped  pep- 
per, 1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yi  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Beat  eggs  and  add  the  other  ingredients.  Pour 
into  ramekins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
firm. 

Egg  Lemonade — 2  tablespoonfuls  syrup,  2  table- 
spoonfuls lemon  juice,  %  CUP  cold  water,  I  egg. 
Mix  syrup  and  lemon  juice.  Add  cold  water. 
Beat  the  yolk  and  white  of  the  egg  separately.  Fill 
a  glass  half  full  of  lemonade.  Add  Yi  °f  the  beaten 
white  and  cover  with  one-third  of  the  beaten 
yolk.  Pour  over  a  small  portion  of  the  lemonade, 
and  repeat  until  all  of  the  egg  and  lemonade  are 
used.  Set  glass  on  small  plate  with  doily.  Place 
two  straws  in  glass  of  lemonade.  Serve  on  a  tray 
with  a  yellow  flower.  i 

A  Nutritious  Beverage — 1  quart  milk,  1  pint 
cream,  4  eggs,  a  few  grains  salt.  Beat  the  eggs 
add  to  cream,  milk  and  salt.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Divide  into  four  parts.  Season  as  desired.  .  This 
is~  sufficient  for  four  feedings. 

Creamed  Egg — 1  egg,  54  CUP  milk.  Yl  table 
spoonful  butter,  Yi  teaspoonful  salt,  1  slice  toast. 
Beat  egg  slightly,  add  salt.  Heat  milk  and  butter 
in  double  boiler,  add  egg  and  cook  until  creamy. 
Remove  crust  from  bread,  toast  a  golden  brown, 
place  egg  on  toast,   garnish  and  serve  at  once. 

Toast — Cut  bread  in  J4  »n-  slices,  remove  crust 
and  toast  a  golden  brown.  It  should  be  crisp  all 
through. 

Milk  Toast — 2  slices  of  toast,  t  teaspoonful  but- 
ter, 1  tablespoonful  flour,  1  cup  milk,  Yl  tea' 
spoonful  salt.  Melt  the  butter,  add  dry  ingredients, 
stir  until  thoroughly  blended;  add  milk  gradual!} 
and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Pour  over  butterec 
toast. 


THE    NURSE'S    KITCHEN 
Some  Other  Invalid  Recipes 


Cream  Toast — Make  thin  slices  of  golden  brown 
toast,  crisp  and  dry.  Place  the  slices  in  a  wire 
sieve,    and   steam   until  soft  over  hot  water.      Then 

butter  and  put  in  a  soup  plate about  three  slices 

cut  in  half.  Over  them  pour  white  sauce.  Make 
this  by  heating  a  cupful  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler 
and  then  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  rubbed 
into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Cook  gently 
over  a  low  heat  until  the  flour  has  lost  its  starchy 


taste.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  ver; 
hot.  Such  a  dish  loses  its  appetizing  qualities  i 
it  is  not  hot  when  served,  so  it  should  be  carefull; 
covered  in  transit  from  the  kitchen  to   the   room. 

Egg-nog — Heat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  until  it  i 
creamy  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt;  then  add  enougl 
milk  to  fill  a  glass  three-quarters  full.  Last,  ad' 
the    white    beaten    stiff,    and    sprinkle    with    grate. 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH— DIET  FOR  INVALIDS 


389 


nutmeg.  This  is  nourishing  and  excepting  in  cases 
where  raw  egg  cannot  be  digested,  is  easily  assim- 
ilated. Use  whiskey  or  brandy  in  egg-nog  only 
if  patient  needs  stimulant  on  doctor's  orders. 

Lamb  Broth — Lamb  broth  can  be  taken  by  al- 
most every  one.  Here  is  a  good  recipe  for  mak- 
ing it.  Have  a  pound  of  the  neck  of  lamb  cut 
into  small  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  granite  or  alumi- 
num saucepan  with  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water 
for  two  hours.  Then  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  it  cook  just  below  the  boiling  point,  for 
three  hours.  Strain  and  season  with  salt.  This 
can  be  made  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

Chicken  Broth — This  can  be  made  in  the  same 
way  as  lamb  broth.  Use  the  neck,  the  wings,  and 
the  back  of  chicken,  and  reserve  the  other  parts 
for  other  uses.  If  rice  can  be  taken,  a  little  rice 
well  boiled,  can  be  added  to  either  chicken  or 
Iamb  broth. 

Clam   Broth Wash   six    clams   and    put   them   in 

a  kettle  with  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  Steam 
until  they  have  opened,  strain,  and  serve.  Clam 
broth  and  beef  broth  may  both  be  frozen,  just  to 
the  mush  stage,  and  then  served  in  a  sherbet  glass. 
A  feverish  patient  often  finds  this  broth  sherbet 
very  tempting. 

Cornmeal  Gruel — All  gruels  must  be  thoroughly 
cooked,  not  very  thick,  and  free  from  lumps.  Put 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornmeal  into  a  third  of 
a  cupful  of  cold  water,  salt  to  taste,  and  then  add 
two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water.  Boil  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  constantly,  or  else  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
an  hour. 

Cracker  Gruel — Break  a  soda  cracker  or  two, 
buttered  thin,  into  a  cupful  of  boiling  milk,  and 
cook,  stirring  constantly,  for  three  or  four  minutes. 
Season  with  salt. 

Oatmeal  Gruel — Cook  half  a  cupful  of  prepared 
oatmeal  in  a  quart  of  boiling  salted  water  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour. 

Rice  Gruel — Cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rice  in 
two  cupfuls  of  salted  water.  When  the  rice  is 
cooked  to  pieces,  strain  and  dilute  to  taste  with 
hot  milk. 

Stewed  Prunes  and  Figs — Wash  prunes  or  figs 
to  be  stewed  and  then  soak  in  cold  water  for  ten 
hours.  Cook  for  half  an  hour  in  the  same  water. 
Sweeten   slightly   if   necessary. 

Spinach  on  Toast — Cook  some  well-washed 
spinach  for  twenty  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water, 
drain  it  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve.  Have  ready 
a  piece  of  buttered,  thin  toast  which  has  been 
quickly  dipped  in  boiling  water.  Moisten  the 
spinach  with  a  little  melted  butter,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,   and  pile  neatly  on  toast. 


Apple  Snow Bake  an  apple  in  an  earthen  dish, 

covered.  Remove  core  and  skin  before  baking. 
Then  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  add  it  to  the  well- 
beaten  white  of  an  egg  and  beat  for  twenty  minutes. 
Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve  piled  up  in  a  glass  cup. 

Orange  Whip — Squeeze  the  juice  from  an 
orange.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  and  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  a  little  of  the  orange 
juice,  beating  stiff  again.  Then  pour  the  rest  of 
the  juice  into  a  glass  cup,  pile  on  the  white  and 
serve. 

Custard  with  Fruit — Very  often  good  boiled 
custard  can  be  served  to  advantage  with  fruit.  The 
fruit  adds  attractiveness  to  the  custard  and  so 
tempts  the  appetite.  A  few  prunes,  neatly  cut  in 
pieces,  can  be  covered  with  custard;  dates  can  be 
used  in  the  same  way;  orange  pulp  cut  in  dice 
can  be  added  to  it  or  a  spoonful  of  apple  snow 
can   be   placed   on   top   of   custard. 

Grape    Fruit    and    Orange Grapefruit    pulp    cut 

in  dice  and  served  in  a  glass  with  the  juice  of  an 
orange  and  very  little  sugar,  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  brandy  or  sherry,  if  that  is  allowed,  makes  a 
most    refreshing    dish    for    an    invalid. 

Bavarian  Cream — Bavarian  creams  of  all  sorts 
make  delicious  and  nourishing  desserts  for  invalids. 
For  chocolate  Bavarian  cream,  soak  half  a  box  of 
gelatin  in  cold  water  for  at  least  a  half  hour. 
In  a  double  boiler,  heat  one  pint  of  milk  and  two 
ounces  of  grated  chocolate;  add  the  gelatine  and 
stir  until  dissolved.  Next  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  remove  from  the  stove.  Turn  into  a  deep  bowl 
and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  set  this  bowl 
into  a  pan  of  ice  water  and  stir  until  it  thickens 
like  a  sauce;  then  add  a  pint  of  cream  whipped 
stiff.  Stir  lightly,  pour  into  a  mold,  wet  with  cold 
water,  set  it  on  ice  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 
This  must  be  made  very  early  in  the  morning  if 
it  is  to  be  used  for  lunch  or  tea.  If  a  fruit  cream 
is  desired  substitute  fruit  juice,  stewed  and  strained, 
or  the  juice  from  canned  fruit,  for  the  milk,  omit- 
ting the  grated  chocolate.  Both  raspberry  and 
peach  Bavarian   cream   are  delicious. 

Orange  Albumen — White  1  egg,  Yi  cup  orange 
juice,    J/2    glass  crushed  ice,   sugar  if  necessary,   stir 

white  of  egg  with  fork.      Add  orange  juice strain 

over  ice. 

Milk   Whip 24    CUP    cream   milk,    2    teaspoonful 

sugar,  few  grains  nutmeg,  pinch  salt,  Yl  teaspoon- 
ful vanilla  or  3  teaspoonfuls  sherry,  few  pieces  of 
ice.  Put  in  Mason  jar,  shake  thoroughly,  serve 
at   once. 

Whey — 1  cup  milk  at  98  degrees  F.,  Yl  rennin 
tablet  dissolved  in  cold  water,  mix,  pour  in  bowl, 
allow  to  set.  When  thick  cut  in  cubes  and  allow 
whey  to  rise.     Strain. 


390     THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

Iowa  State  College  of  Agriculture 


I.     CONSTIPATION 

1 .  Lack  of  exercise 

2.  Lack  of  water 

3.  Overuse  of  condensed  foods 

4.  Lack  of  bulk  in  food 

5.  Improper   habits   of   eating 

6.  Astringent  foods 

7.  Lack  of  digestive  fluids 

8.  Indigestible   food 

9.  Improper   care   of   skin 

10.  Use   of   drugs 

Preventive  Treatment 
Hygienic    treatment    should    supercede    the    use 
of  medicine. 

1 .  Laxative   diet 

2.  Exercise 

3.  Massage 

4.  Cold   morning  bath 

5.  Thorough    mastication 

6.  Proper    clothing 

7.  Abundant  use  of  water  as  a  beverage. 

8.  Regularity   of   habit 


Oranges 
Lemons 
Limes 
Grape  fruit 

Molasses 


Typical  Laxative  Foods 

Spinach 

Asparagus 

Cauliflower 

Tomatoes 

Rhubarb 


Apples    (without   skin)  Coarse   breads 

Prunes  Olive   Oil 

Raisins  Oatmeal 

Figs  Bacon 

Dates  Butter 

Berries  Cream 

Grapes  Buttermilk 
Honey 

Fruit  is  more  laxative  eaten  between  meals,  one- 
half  hour  before  breakfast  or  late  at  night 

Laxative  Foods  for  Children 

(Foods    recommended    for    child    of    3    years) 

Oatmeal  Orange  juice 

Cornbread  Stewed  figs 

Cracked   wheat  Olive   Oil 

Gingerbread  Oatmeal  water 

Brown   bread   and   honey  Peaches 

Cream    and    water  Butter 

Stewed   prunes  Cream 

Baked  apple  Buttermilk 

Constipating  Foods  for  Children 

Cheese  Scalded  milk 

Spices  Crackers 

Pickles  Eggs 

Nuts  Candy 


TYPICAL  LAXATIVE  MEALS 
Breakfast — Apricots,     wheat     grits     and     cream, 
bacon,   bran   muffins,    hot  water. 

Bran  Muffins — 1  Yl  cups  bran,  Yl  cup  flour, 
Yl  teaspoonful  soda,  I  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  egg,  1  cup  sour  milk,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  fat,  Yi  CUP  sorghum.  Sift  dry  ingred- 
ients together.  Beat  egg,  add  milk,  fat,  sorghum 
and  the  dry  ingredients.  Bake  in  gem  pans  in  a 
moderate   oven   until  well   done. 

Dinner' — Baked  potatoes,  pork  chops,  tomato 
salad  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  graham  bread, 
prune   pudding. 

Prune  Pudding — 2  doz.  large  prunes,  2  doz. 
marshmallows,  Ya  cup  chopped  or  ground  nuts, 
Y4  cup  whipping  cream.  Wash  prunes,  soak  over 
night,  stew  gently  until  tender  but  not  mushy.  Re- 
move pit  with  sharp  pointed  knife  and  fill  with 
marshmallow.  Bake  in  oven  until  marshmallow 
melts.  Cover  with  whipped  cream  and  sprinkle 
with   chopped  nuts. 

ANEMIC  CONDITION 
Causes   of   Condition 

1 .  Improper  ventilation. 

2.  Improper  diet. 

3.  Lack  of  outdoor  exercise. 

4.  Insufficient   rest   and   sleep. 

5.  Improper    clothing. 

6.  Over    excitement. 

7.  Constipation. 

Note:  One  cause  of  anemia  is  the  lack  of  iron 
in  the  system.  This  lack  is  caused  by  improper 
diet   and   may   be   remedied. 

Percentage    of   Iron   in   Edible    Portion    of    Various 
Foods 

Egg  yolk    0085 

Lima    beans    007 

Beans   (dry)    007 

Peas    (dried)     0056 

Entire   wheat    0053 

Raisins     005 

Lean    beef     0038 

Oatmeal       .0036 

Spinach     0032 

Figs     0032 

Eggs    003 

Dates     003 

Corn     (dried)      0029 

Prunes     0029 

Dandelion    greens     0027 

Lima    beans    (fresh)     0025 

Cocoa      0024 

Beans     (string)      0016 


391 


392 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


Suggestions  for  Planning  Meals 

1.  Simple,  well  cooked  foods. 

2.  Meals   at    regular   hours. 

3.  Five  light  meals  rather  than  three  heavy  ones. 

4.  An   abundance   of   fresh   fruits  and  vegetables. 

5.  A    generous   amount    of   easily   digested   fats. 

6.  Well    cooked   cereals. 

7.  Milk  and  eggs  for  muscle  building. 

Foods  Advised 

Eggs — Boiled,    scrambled,    omelet,    custard. 

Fish All  kinds  broiled   or  boiled.      Not  fried. 

Cereals — Graham     and    brown    bread,     oatmeal, 
grits,   cornbread. 

Vegetables — All   kinds. 

Milk Buttermilk,    cream,    butter,    milk. 

Desserts — Junket,    bread    pudding,    rice    pudding 
with  fruit,  blanc-mange,   lemon  jelly. 
Fruits — All   fruits   used   freely. 

Beverages — Cocoa,  lemonade,  orangeade  and 
other  fruit  drinks. 

Foods  Forbidden 
Fried  foods  Pickles 

Pastry  Gravy 

Confectionery  Sauces     (rich    puddings] 

Cake  Tea 

Rich  preserves  Nuts 

Jam  Coffee 

Note:  These  suggestions  for  feeding  the  anemic 
patient  are  very  similar  to  those  used  in  the  feed- 
ing of  the  tuberculous  patient.  The  treatment 
needed  in  both  cases  is  dietetic  and  hygienic  rather 
than   medical. 

Dietetic  and  hygienic  treatment  is  the  ideal 
method  of  caring  for  the  human  body.  If  used 
regularly  and  continuously  it  would  not  only  help 
to  correct  such  conditions  as  have  been  mentioned, 
but  would  become  a  vital  factor  in  the  prevention 
of    disease. 

MENUS  FOR  ANEMIC  PATIENTS 
Breakfast — Stewed  prunes,  puffy  omelet,  oatmeal 
and   cream,    cream    toast. 

Food  Arranged  According  to  Per  Cent  of  Iron — 
Puffy  omelet,  stewed  prunes,  oatmeal  and  cream, 
cream   toast. 

Dinner Baked  potato,  escalloped  spinach,  may- 
onnaise dressing,  boiled  mutton  chop,  combination 
salad,    graham   bread,    chocolate   bread    pudding. 

Escalloped  Spinach — 1  can  cooked  spinach,  2 
cups  dry  bread  crumbs,  "/i  cup  meat  stock,  4 
hard  cooked  eggs,  1 1/2  cups  sauce  made  with  meat 
stock,  buttered  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 
Drain  spinach  and  chop.  Soak  bread  crumbs  in 
Yl  cup  meat  stock  and  add  to  spinach.  Cut  hard 
cooked  eggs  in  small  pieces.  Butter  a  shallow  bak- 
ing dish,  put  in  layer  of  spinach  and  bread  crumbs, 
'  then  layer  of  eggs.  Cover  with  sauce.  Continue 
in  this  order  until  dish  is  nearly  filled.      Cover  with 


buttered   crumbs.      Bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs 
are  brown. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding — 2  cups  stale  bread 
crumbs,  3  cups  hot  milk,  I '/2  squares  chocolate, 
2/3  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  !4  teaspoonful  salt.  Soak 
bread  in  hot  milk.  Melt  chocolate  in  pan  over 
hot  water,  and  add  to  bread  and  milk.  Beat 
eggs,  add  sugar,  salt  and  vanilla.  Add  to  first 
mixture.  Pour  into  buttered  pan.  Set  in  dish 
of  hot  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  firm. 

HI.     TUBERCULOSIS 

Tuberculosis  is  a  disease  in  which  treatment  is 
almost  wholly   dietetic  and  hygenic. 

The  appetite  must  be  watched  closely.  Oil  is 
given  to  afford  an  easily  assimilated  basis  for  re- 
newed  organic    growth. 

A  change  of  climate  sometimes  stimulates  the 
appetite,  but  unless  it  does,  it  is  of  little  benefit. 

Diet 

Soups — Oyster,  mutton,  chicken  or  clam  broth, 
barley,  rice,  bean,  cream  of  celery  or  tomato,  beef 
tea,    peptonied   milk   gruel. 

Fish Fresh    fish    broiled    or    boiled,    oysters    or 

clams. 

Meat Roast   beef,    mutton,    lamb    chops,    bacon, 

poultry,    game,    steaks. 

Fats Butter   and   salad    oils   used   abundantly. 

Eggs — Except   fried. 

Farinaceous —  Cream  of  wheat,  oatmeal,  hominy, 
rice,   cornbread,  milk  toast,   muffins,  biscuit. 

Vegetables Potatoes,     spinach,     onions,     aspira- 

gus,    peas,    tomatoes,    string    beans,    lettuce. 

Desserts — Apple  pudding,  custards  stewed  fruits, 
rice,    tapioca    with    fresh    cream. 

Beverages Milk,  cocoa,  chocolate,  water,  but- 
termilk,  cream. 

Avoid  fried  foods,  hash,  gravies,  veal,  pork, 
cabbage,    turnips,    cucumbers,    pies,    pastry,    candy. 

IV.     RHEUMATISM 
Suggestions 
Use    starch    and    sugar    moderately.       Avoid    the 
over-use   of  protein   food. 

The  patient  should  partake  of  water  freely  to 
assist  in  eliminating  the  waste  products  from  the 
body.  Lemonade  and  mineral  waters  are  recom- 
mended. 

Suggested  List  of  Foods 
Animal  Foods 
Eggs  Fish  Chicken 

Milk  Oysters  Buttermilk 

Beef    (in   moderation) 
Vegetables  Fruits 

Spinach  Cauliflower  Oranges 

String    beans  Squash  Grape   fruit 

Navy  beans  Onions 

t        .  Lemons 

Cabbage  Turnips 

Celery  Apples  Limes 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,   HEALTH— PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


393 


Foods  to  be  Avoided 

Meat  and   eggs   in    excess  Coffee 

Chocolate  .  Tea 

Sweets  Highly    seasoned    foods. 

Precautions 

Well  planned  meals  prevent  accumulation  of 
waste  and  consequently  are  vital  factors  toward 
physical    equilibrium. 

Breakfast — Grape  fruit,  cream  of  wheat  (no 
sugar),   poached  eggs,    graham   bread. 

Dinner — Mashed  potatoes,  cheese  fondue, 
graham  bread,  lettuce  and  celery  salad,  lemon  ice 
or  baked  apple   and   cream. 

Cheese  Fondue 1    cup  scalded  milk,    1    cup  soft 

stale  bread  crumbs,  I  cup  or  Y4  lb.  mild  cheese 
cut  in  small  pieces,  1  tablespoonful  fat,  Yz  tea" 
spoonful  salt,  yolk  of  3  eggs,  white  of  3  eggs. 
Mix  first  five  ingredients,  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
until  lemon-colored.  Cut  and  fold  in  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Pour  in  a  buttered  baking 
dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

V.     DIABETES 

The  disease  is  characterized  by  grape  sugar  in 
the  urine  on  an  ordinary  diet,  and  is  hereditary 
in  one-third  of  all  cases. 

The  most  effective  treatment  is  dietetic  and 
hygienic. 

TREATMENT 
Preventive  Treatment 

Where  distinct  heredity  is  feared,  exposure  to 
cold  and  wet,  all  excitement  of  the  nervous  system 
as  well  as  indulgence  in  alcohol  and  sweets  should 
be  avoided. 

It  is  necessary  in  all  cases  to  use  great  caution 
in   regard   to   diet  and   general  hygiene. 

Avoid: 

Shocks  and  blows  affecting  the  nervous  system. 
Injuries  to  the  back  of  the  head  and  blows  over 
the  liver. 

Exposure  to   cold,  wet  and  fatigue. 
Emotional    strain   and   anxiety. 
Over-indulgence  in  starchy  foods. 
Alcoholism. 

Dietetic  Treatment 
I.      Foods   Allowed  in   Diabetes: 

1 .  Soups  and  broths  made  of  meat  of  any  kind 
without  vegetables. 

2.  Crustaceous  foods,   crabs,  lobsters,   shrimp. 

3.  Fresh  fish  of  all  kinds. 

4.  Salt  fish,  cod,  mackerel  and  herring  may  be 
allowed  unless  they  increase  thirst  too  much. 

5.  Fresh  meat,  fowl  and  game  of  all  kinds, 
ham,  bacon,  smoked  beef,  tongue,  sweet- 
breads. 

6.  Olive  oil  and  animal  fats  and  oils,  such  as 
butter  (in  moderation),  cream,  cod-liver  oil, 
bone    marrow. 


7.  Spinach,  dandelions,  beet  tops,  horseradish, 
radishes,  celery,  lettuce,  endives,  pickles, 
cucumbers,    gherkins. 

II.      Foods    Permissible   in   Moderate   Quantities: 

(Vegetables  Prepared  Without  Flour  or  Sugar.) 
2   tablespoonfuls  per  day     Pumpkin 
Salsify  1    tablespoonful  per  day 

Celery    (cooked)  Green   peas 

Turnip  Carrot 

Cabbage  Brussels  sprouts 

Raw   Vegetables   Per   Day 

8    radishes 

2    sticks  celery 

2    medium    size    tomatoes 

Choice   per   day    from    these   lists: 


Nuts   per  Day 


2    walnuts 
6    hazelnuts 


3    almonds 
8   Brazil   nuts 


Fresh  Fruits  per  Day 

1    thin  slice  melon  1    tablespoon   strawberries 

I    small   tart  apple  12    cherries 

I    peach  Yl    medium   sized  pear 

I    tablespoon   raspberries  — Van   Noorden. 

III.      Forbidden  Foods: 

1 .  Sugar  in  any  form.  Syrup,  molasses,  con- 
fectionery,  jams,    honey. 

2.  All  farinaceous  foods,  all  pastry  of  every 
description.  In  fact,  everything  made  of 
flour. 

3.  Sweet  potatoes,  beets,  corn,  beans  of  all 
kinds  (except  string  beans),  peas,  carrots, 
parsnips,    squash    and    potatoes. 

4.  The  soft  parts  of  clam,  oysters,  and  muscles 
containing    glycogen    (animal    sugar.) 

5.  Liver   of  all   animals. 

6.  All  sweet  fruits,  such  as  figs,  dates,  prunes, 
bananas,    apricots,    plums. 

Suggestions 

Frequent  feeding  is  desirable  for  the  diabetic. 
Besides  the  three  regular  meals  several  lunches 
should  be  given. 

The  most  difficult  of  all  starchy  foods  for  the 
patient  to  forego  is  bread.  A  bread  made  of  bran 
may   sometimes   be   used. 

Bran  cakes — 2  cups  bran,  2  tablespoonfuls 
melted  butter,  2  whole  eggs,  1  egg  white,  Yz  grain 
saccharin,  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Tie  bran  in  piece  of 
cheese  cloth  and  wash  by  squeezing  water  through 
and  through.  Wring  dry.  Dissolve  saccharin  in 
1  teaspoonful  water.  Mix  bran,  beaten  eggs, 
saccharin  and  salt.  Beat  remaining  egg  white  stiff 
and  fold  in  at  last.  Shape  with  knife  and  table- 
spoon  into   small   cakes,   bake   until   golden   brown- 


394     THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


MENUS  FOR  DIABETIC  PATIENT 
Breakfast 

Bacon     3  Yx    slices 

Orange    I    medium 

Egg     I 

Bread    I    slice    3x2 Yl    inches 

Butter 
Cream 
Tea 

Dinner 

Steak 1    small  slice 

String  beans 1    heaping  tablespoon 

Lettuce 12  leaves 

Butter 
Cream 
Tea 

Supper 

Ham    I    small   slice 

Asparagus    I    heaping   tablespoon 

Spinach    1    heaping   tablespoon 

Bread    1    slice  3x  I  Yl   inches 

Butter 
Cream 
Tea 

Allow  During  Day 

Butter     4     squares 

Cream    (heavy)     16    tablespoons 

—Allen. 

Patient  should  guard  against  taking  cold  and 
when  possible  should  live  in  a  moderately  warm 
climate.  Flannels  should  be  worn  next  the  skin 
in  winter,  and  the  body  should  be  kept  warm,  for 
there  is  less  heat  producing  power  than  nor- 
mally because  of  the  lack  of  starches  and  sugar. 

The  skin  should  be  maintained  in  good  condi- 
tion by  frequent  baths  and  massage.  Only  a  mod- 
erate amount  of  exercise  should  be  taken,  but  this 
should  be  in  the  open  air. 

VI.     OBESITY 
Diet  to  Regulate  Weight 
Special  Rules: 

1 .  Eat   slowly,    masticate   thoroughly. 

2.  Do    not    have    more    than    three    courses    or 
five  kinds  of  food  at  any  one  meal. 

3.  Eat  moderately,    not  to  satisfy. Thompson. 


SUGGESTIVE  MENUS 
Breakfast 

One  cup  hot  water,  1  egg,  boiled  or  poached, 
I   slice  toast,  Yl  grape  fruit  or  one  orange. 

Lunch 

Soup  (ample  bowl  vegetable);  100  grams  of 
meat  (beef,  mutton,  veal,  fowl,  fish);  I  slice  bread; 
fruit;  choice  of  I  apple,  I  bunch  grapes  or  a 
small  portion  of  berries. 

Dinner 

One  cup  bouillion;  meat,  150  grams;  potatoes, 
100  grams;  vegetables,  100  grams  (spinach,  cab- 
bage, cauliflower,  celery,  radishes,  lettuce) ;  fruit, 
I  apple,  pear,  peach,  orange  or  Yl  grape  fruit. — 
Chittenden. 

Note:  A  study  of  these  menus  shows  that 
starches,  fats  and  sugar  should  be  used  sparingly 
if  at  all. 

All  foods  should  be  used  in  moderation  and 
no  highly  seasoned  foods  should  be  used. 

A  Preventive  Dietary  for  Obesity 
Foods  Allowed: 

Fish — Fresh  fish  of  any  kind  except  salmon  and 
mackerel. 

Meats — Lean  beef,  mutton  or  lamb,  chicken, 
turkey    (without   stuffing). 

Eggs — Boiled  or  poached,  but  not  more  than  two' 
a  day. 

Farinaceous — Stale  bread,  dry  toast  or  crusts  in 
moderate  quantity. 

Vegetables — Spinach,  lettuce,  celery,  radishes, 
asparagus,  cauliflower,  cabbage,  tomatoes,  onions, 
turnips,    squash. 

Desserts — Ripe  fruits,  acid  varieties  preferable. 
Foods  Forbidden: 

Soups — Rich  cream  soups  and  purees. 

Fats  and  oils — Olive  oil,   cream,   fat  bacon,  lard. 

Desserts — Pastry,  cakes,  preserves,  confection- 
ery,   nuts,   jams,   rich  puddings. 

Vegetables — White  and  sweet  potatoes,  peas, 
beans,   corn,   lima  beans,   beets. 

Farinaceous Little    white    bread,    rice,    hominy, 

crackers,    brown    bread,    macaroni,    spaghetti,    tap- 
ioca. 


Symond's  Table  of  Height  and'  Weight  for  Women  at  Different  Ages* 
(Based  on   58,855  accepted  applicants  for  life  insurance.) 


HEIGHT  AGES 

15-19  20-24  25-29  30-34   35-39 

4  ft.  11  in ..  Ill  113  115  117 

5  ft ,.,„,,,  113  114  117  119 

5  ft.   1  in 115  116  118  121 

5  ft.  2  in 117  118  120  123 

5  ft.  3  in 120  122  124  127 

5  ft.  4  in 123  125  127  130 

5  ft.  5  in 125  128  131  135 

5  ft.  6  in 128  132  135  137 

5  ft.  7  in 132  135  139  143 


119 
122 
124 
127 
131 
134 
139 
143 
147 


40-44 
122 
125 
128 
132 
135 
138 
143 
146 
150 


50-54 
128 
130 
133 
137 
141 
145 
149 
153 
157 

*McClure's    Magazine,    Jan.     1 909. 


45-49 
125 
128 
131 
134 
138 
142 
147 
151 
154 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH— PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


395 


VII.     UNDERWEIGHT 

The  man  who  said,  "It  does  not  matter  so  much 
what  kind  of  a  disease  the  body  has,  as  the  kind 
of  a  body  the  disease  has,"  expressed  the  gener- 
ally accepted  idea  that  the  normally  behaved  body 
is  more  nearly  able  to  resist  disease.  The  body 
that  meets  the  requirements  with  regard  to  weight 
is  likely  to  have  greater  power  to  resist  disease. 
The  above  table  gives  the  relation  between  height, 
age  and  weight  and  serves  as  a  guide  in  feeding 
the  family. 

Suggestive  List  of  Foods  to  Increase  Weight 

Butter,  cream,  olive  oil,  bacon,  baked  potatoes, 
well  cooked  cereals,  well  baked  bread,  chocolate, 
cocoa,  milk,  cream  soups,  cream  toast,  custards, 
eggs,  apples,  raisins,  prunes,  figs,  dates,  oranges. 

Mineral  Giving  Vegetables 
Lettuce,      celery,      radishes,      cabbage,      spinach, 
cauliflower,  turnips,  tomatoes,  carrots,  parsnips. 

The  fats  and  carbohydrates  are  especially  im- 
portant as  flesh  builders,  but  the  minerals  given 
by  the  non-starchy  vegetables  are  equally  impor- 
tant, in  that  they  help  to  maintain  the  normal 
activity  of  the  body. 

SUGGESTIVE  MENUS 
Breakfast 

Orange 

Scrambled  Eggs  and  Bacon 


Supper 


Cream  Toast 


Dinner 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Lamb  Chops  Buttered  Peas  Baked  Potato 

Lettuce  Salad  with  French  Dressing 

Rice  and  Fruit  Pudding 


Pittsburg  Potatoes 
Rhubarb  Sauce 


Graham  Gems 
Ginger  Bread 


Rice  and  Fruit  Pudding — 24  CUP  rice,  Yz  CUP 
apple  juice  from  cooked  apples,  I  cup  cooked 
sliced  apples,  2  eggs,  Ya  CUP  sugar,  nutmeg.  Note: 
Other  fruits  may  be  substituted  if  desired.  Cook 
rice  in  salted,  boiling  water  and  drain.  Beat  whites 
and  yolks  of  eggs  separately;  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
sugar  to  apple  juice,  heat  and  pour  over  beaten 
egg  yolks.  Cook  until  it  thickens  and  add  one 
half  of  the  cooked  rice.  Place  mixture  in  bottom 
of  baking  dish  and  cover  with  cooked  apples;  add 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  to  beaten  egg  whites,  sea- 
son with  nutmeg  and  fold  in  the  remainder  of 
cooked  rice  and  pile  on  top  of  the  apples.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  top  is  well  browned. 

Pittsburg  Potato — 4  cups  cubed  potatoes,  2  ta- 
blespoonfuls onion,  I  pimento,  4  tablespoonfuls 
fat,  4  tablespoonfuls  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  Yl  tea- 
spoon pepper,  2  cups  milk,  Yl  CUP  cheese.  Cook 
potato  cubes  with  minced  onion  in  salted  water 
until  the  potatoes  begin  to  get  tender.  Add  the 
pimento  cut  in  small  pieces  and  cook  five  min- 
utes longer.  Drain  and  put  in  baking  dish.  Make 
a  sauce  of  fat,  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  milk,  then 
add  grated  cheese.  Pour  over  the  potatoes  and 
bake  until  golden  brown. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


396     THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CARE  OF  THE  NOSE  AND  THROAT 

The  nose,  mouth  and  throat  are  the  gateways  through  which  disease  germs 
enter  the  body.  Keep  nostrils,  mouth  and  throat  clean  and  free  from  germs  that 
breed  disease.  An  antiseptic  wash  for  the  nose,  mouth  and  throat  should  be  reg- 
ularly used.  The  germs  of  cold  and  grippe,  diphtheria,  croup,  scarlet  fever  and 
other  diseases  may  find  lodgment  in  these  gateways  of  the  body  if  you  do  not 
keep  them  in  a  sanitary  condition. 

Spraying  the  nose  and  throat  with  an  antiseptic  douche  will  go  a  long  ways 
toward  warding  off  diseases,  many  of  which  enter  the  system  through  these  or- 
gans. In  Rigg's  disease  of  the  gums,  poisonous  germs  of  the  mouth  and  throat  in- 
fect the  gums,  and  these  should  be  rendered  harmless  by  a  germicidal  wash. 
Bronchitis,  pneumonia,  rheumatism,  appendicitis  and  other  serious  ailments  may 
result  from  germs  lodged  in  the  nostrils,  mouth  or  throat. 

A  little  vaseline  or  preparation  of  camphor  and  menthol  rubbed  into  the  nos- 
trils every  night  before  retiring  and  again  before  going  out  in  the  morning  will 
do  a  great  deal  toward  preventing  colds  and  will  also  prevent  the  formation  of  ad- 
hesions of  hard  mucous  matter  in  the  nose. 

COLDS  AND  SIGNS  OF  COLDS 

Snuffing  and  sneezing,  a  person  with  a  cold  is  exceedingly  miserable — an  ob- 
ject of  pity,  but  unless  care  is  exercised  he  will  have  company  in  his  misery.  Colds 
are  contagious  and  careless  sneezing  and  coughing  scatter  cold  germs  to  be  breathed 
in  by  other  unfortunates  and  start  more  colds. 

When  you  develop  a  cold  it  means  that  cold  germs  have  begun  to  grow  in 
your  nose  and  throat  and  produce  poisons  that  are  absorbed  into  your  body  and 
give  you  that  peculiar,  miserable  feeling  that  only  a  cold  can  produce. 

The  best  way  to  keep  from  catching  cold  is  to  accustom  yourself  to  sudden 
changes  of  temperature.  This  can  be  done  by  taking  a  cold  sponge  bath  over  the 
back  and  front  of  your  chest  every  morning.  Next  best  is  to  avoid  draughts.  Keep 
the  feet  dry  and  escape  the  chill  which  causes  congestion  in  the  nose,  throat  and 
chest.  Also  avoid  crowds,  people  who  carelessly  cough  and  sneeze,  and  hot,  poorly 
ventilated  rooms. 

To  break  up  a  cold  take  a  hot  drink  at  bed  time  and  a  strong  laxative.  Fresh 
air  day  and  night  is  the  best  tonic  in  the  world.  If  a  cold  hangs  on  for  a  month  or 
longer  be  examined  by  your  physician.  It  may  mean  the  saving  of  much  trouble 
and  sickness. 

Preventions — Colds  can  be  easily  prevented  if  care  is  taken  to  avoid  these  things 
which  lower  the  resistance  of  the  body,  and  if  one  pays  special  attention  to  building  up  the 
resistance  of  the  body.  How  important  this  is  may  be  seen  in  the  fact  that  athletes  in 
training  seldom,  if  ever,  contract  colds. 

How,  then,  are  we  to  know  that  a  cold  is  impending?  First  of  all,  in  most  cases 
there  is  a  feeling  of  chilliness  and  slight  feverishness.  The  head  also  feels  stuffy  and  full; 
the  mucous  linings  of  the  nose  and  throat  feel  dry  and  parched,  due  to  congestion  at  these 
points.  Frequently  there  is  a  feeling  of  languor,  and  an  "aching"  of  the  bones,  especially 
at  the  joints.  Headache  is  often  present,  and  lack  of  appetite,  bad  breath  and  coated  tongue 
almost  invariably.      The   victim   is   usually  constipated. 

397 


398     THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 

Respiration — Winter  colds  bear  a  very  close  relation  to  respiration;  indeed,  many  peo- 
ple testify  to  warding  off  colds  by  deep  breathing,  and  one  remedy  for  catarrh  consists 
solely  of  breathing  exercises.  Any  cold  means  congestion.  A  cold  in  the  head  means  the 
presence  of  acute  inflammation  of  the  membrane  lining  the  nose,  generally  an  infection 
caused  by  germs  gaining  access  to  the  tissues.  During  undue  or  unaccustomed  exposure 
to  cold  the  smaller  blood  vessels  are  contracted,  consequently  less  blood  is  brought  to  the 
surface,  resistance  weakens,  and  the  germs  can  attack  more  easily.  Disregarding  the 
weather  conditions,   the  outsire  air  is  always  preferable  to  the  room  atmosphere. 

Good  respiration  will  counteract  this.  A  full  breath  quickens  circulation;  the  rich 
blood,  purified  by  the  extra  amount  of  good  air  in  the  lungs,  races  along,  expands  the  tiny 
blood  vessels,  and  sends  a  glow  of  warmth  over  the  body.  The  work  of  the  germs  is  can- 
celed. The  next  time  you  go  out  and  feel  the  chill  wind  strike  through  you,  and  you  start 
to  hunch  up  your  shoulders  and  contract  your  chest  to  get  rid  of  the  shivers,  stop!  Throw 
your  head  up,  assume  the  correct  standing  posture  with  chest  out  and  weight  well  forward. 
For  a  second  you  will  shiver.  Then  take  a  deep  breath,  expanding  your  lungs  to  the  ut- 
most of  their  capacity  and  exhale  slowly.  Always  remember  to  breathe  through  your  nose. 
The  nose  serves  to  warm  and  moisten  the  air  so  that  it  will  not  irritate  the  delicate  struc- 
ture of  the  lungs.  Now  start  walking  forward  briskly,  swing  your  arms  easily,  and  breathe 
as  deeply  as  you  can. 

First  Aid — Under  the  heading  of  "Things  to  Do  for  a  Cold,"  a  bulletin  of  the  Life 
Extension  Institute  of  New  York  City  condenses  into  a  table  these  valuable  hints  on  emer- 
gency treatment: 

"On  first  sign  of  a  cold,  a  hot  foot  bath  lasting  half  an  hour,  and  a  drink  of  hot  lem- 
onade— or,  better  still,  hot  flavored  tea  (one-half  ounce  of  whole  flaxseed  to  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  flavored  with  lemon  peel  or  licorice  root)  will  often  break  its  force." 

"A  brisk  purge  is  also  advisable." 

"A  mild  menthol-oil  spray  may  be  used  occasionally  in  nose  and  throat." 

"Neck  and  chest  and  nostrils  may  be  rubbed  with  camphorated  oil." 

"If  the  throat  is  sore  a  gargle  or  spray  of  peroxide  of  hydrogen,  one  part  to  three  parts 
of  water,  may  be  used." 

"Also  cold  compresses  to  the  neck,  or  gauze  pads  saturated  with  equal  parts  of  alcohol 
and  water." 

"An  alcohol  rub-down  is  also  good  as  a  first-aid  measure.  Used  externally  alcohol  is 
a  real  friend;  internally,  it  is  a  dangerous  enemy." 

"The  spread  of  septic  sore  throat  and  other  germ  diseases  by  milk  is  very  common. 
Pasteurised   milk  is  safest  during  epidemics." 

"If  there  is  severe  headache,  face  ache,  earache,  pain  in  the  chest,  sore  throat,  or  high 
fever,  there  should  be  no  delay  in  calling  a  physician." 

Home-made  Cough  Syrup — Here  is  a  formula  for  a  home-made  cough  syrup  that  is 
highly  recommended:  One  ounce  each  of  horehound  and  licorice,  two  ounces  of  gum  ara- 
bic,  one  pound  of  molasses  and  one  teacupful  of  vinegar.  Boil  the  horehound  in  a  quart 
of  water,  dissolve  the  licorice  and  gum  arabic  in  a  little  water  first.  Strain  the  horehound 
before  adding  the  other  ingredients.  Now  add  the  molasses  and  last  of  all  the  vinegar 
when  it  is  nearly  done. 

LA  GRIPPE 

La  Grippe,  or  Influenza,  which  often  starts  with  a  simple  cold,  is  quite  dif- 
ferent from  a  cold,  and  it  is  very  important  to  distinguish  between  them.  The  after 
effects  of  La  Grippe  are  often  very  serious. 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH— NOSE  AND  THROAT  399 

It  starts,  like  a  simple  cold,  with  sneezing,  coughing  and  fever,  with  com- 
plaint of  a  headache  and  a  feeling  of  soreness  in  the  muscles,  so  that  one  will  say 
his  "bones  ache."     He  will  complain  of  sore  throat  and  languidness. 

The  patient  must  be  put  to  bed — and  kept  there  until  all  symptoms  have  dis- 
appeared. La  Grippe  can  usually  be  recognized  by  the  fever,  which  is  higher  than 
that  of  a  simple  cold,  and  by  the  cough,  which  is  rather  rare  at  the  beginning  of 
any  other  kind  of  cold,  and  most  especially  by  the  fact  that  the  patient  feels  really 
sick  and  prostrated  and  his  "bones  ache." 

La  Grippe  is  caused  by  a  distinct  germ,  which  gains  access  through  the  nose 
and  throat.  If  the  germ  reaches  the  lungs  it  may  cause  pneumonia  or  bronchitis; 
in  the  joints,  they  become  painful  and  swollen  with  a  type  of  inflammatory  rheu- 
matism;  if  the  germ  reaches  the  heart  it  may  cause  severe  heart  disease. 

A  person  catches  La  Grippe  from  others  who  have  it.  The  patient  must  be 
quarantined.  The  secretion  from  the  nose,  what  he  coughs  up  from  the  throat, 
and  the  practice  of  sneezing  into  the  open  air  instead  of  a  handkerchief,  transmit 
the  disease. 

La  Grippe  usually  starts  with  a  hard,  dry  cough,  without  any  expectoration, 
and  this  may  persist  for  weeks.  Nausea  and  vomiting  may  occur  and  occasionally 
diarrhoe.  The  fever  varies  greatly,  often  from  normal  to  1  04  in  one  day,  and  may 
last,  or  come  and  go  for  weeks. 

Remedy — When  an  acute  cold  develops  it  is  best  to  put  the  patient  to  bed  on  the  chance 
that  La  Grippe  germs  may  be  there.  Begin  with  the  usual  treatment  for  a  simple  cold.  If 
a  cough  and  fever  develop  it  is  probably  La  Grippe  and  a  physician  should  be  called  at  once. 

Quinine  probably  hastens  the  control  of  any  recovery  from  La  Grippe  better  than  any 
other  remedy;  bromo-quinine  is  better  than  the  sulphate;  patient  should  be  put  to  bed  and 
encouraged  to  sleep.  The  cough,  if  severe,  may  require  a  sedative  but  this  should  be  given 
only  by  a  physician.     A  mustard  plaster  on  chest  will  usually  help  the  cough. 

The  most  important  caution  is  that  the  patient  be  kept  in  bed  until  all  the  symptoms 
have  been  dispelled.  The  patient  will  probably  remain  weak  and  amaemic,  in  which  case 
tonics  should  be  given. 

Keep  the  bowels  open  both  during  the  course  of  the  disease  and  afterwards,  and  take 
'good  care"  of  the  health  for  several  months;  germs  may  remain  in  the  system  and  rein- 
fect, if  resistance  is  lowered.     Unfortunately  one  attack  does  not  leave  one  immune  to  that 
disease. 


400       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


ONE  OR  TWO  CHILDREN'S  TROUBLES 


German  Measles — Rare  in  children  under  two  years  of  age;  no  relation  to 
ordinary  measles;  one  attack  does  not  protect  from  another.  The  rash  spreads 
rapidly  over  the  body  downwards;  it  appears  in  single  red  pin-point  spots,  not  in 
groups  or  patches,  as  in  regular  measles.  The  child  is  not  very  sick,  only  slight 
fever,  if  any,  and  watering  of  the  nose  and  eyes,  as  with  a  cold. 

Isolate  the  child  for  a  week  after  eruption  appears  and  guard  against  cold,  as 
bronchitis  is  possible.  For  specific  treatment  follow  advice  of  a  physician.  While 
it  is  not  a  serious  disease  there  may  be  uncommon  symptoms  or  development  and 
it  should  be  taken  properly  in  hand. 

CHICKEN  POX 


The  eruption  usually  appears  in  pimples  widely 
scattered  over  the  body,  scalp  and  face,  occa- 
sionally groups  of  several  together.  The  pimples 
become  blisters  very  soon,  and  scabs  follow.  Pus 
may  form  under  the  scabs.  New  pimples  appear 
as  old  ones  dry.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  itching 
but  scratching  or  rubbing  only  makes  it  worse 
and    leaves   scars   afterwards,    somewhat    like    small- 


pox  scars.      There    is   some   fever. 

It  is  very  contagious.  Isolate  patient  and  call  a 
physician,  who  will  apply  antiseptic  and  cooling 
ointments  that  will  heal  and  disinfect  and  at  the 
same  time  allay  the  itching  so  that  the  child  can 
resist  the  impulse  to  scratch.  Isolation  necessary 
for  about  three  weeks. 


ADENOIDS 


This  is  a  small  tonsiller  structure  back  of  the 
nose  in  the  throat  If  it  is  enlarged  or  diseased, 
in  children  or  adults,  it  should  be  removed.  Only 
a  physician,  of  course,  can  do  this.  Signs  of 
trouble  here,  however,  to  give  warning,  are  as 
follows : 

Restlessness  at  night,  mouth  breathing,  snoring, 
bad    general    health    and    nervousness,    or    indolent, 


inactive  mind  and  poor  memory.  Frequent  head 
colds,  nasal  discharge  becoming  chronic,  earache 
or  inflammation  of  ears;  any  or  all,  or  two  or  three 
of  the  above  symptoms  together  may  indicate  ade- 
noids, and  one  should  have  the  patient  examined 
by  a  competent  physician  at  once.  The  disease 
is  one  of  childhood,  in  that  the  tonsils  usually  waste 
away  after  the  age  of  puberty. 


TONSILS 


Enlarged  or  diseased  tonsils  cause  catarrh  and 
sore  throat,  and  when  any  of  such  symptoms  ap- 
pear,   therefore,    a    physician    should    be    consulted 


and  make  an  examination.  Diseased  tonsils  cause 
remote  diseases  which  obtain  access  by  infection, 
and   especially  pave   the   way   to   rheumatism. 


VACCINATION 


Vaccination  time  is  best  when  a  baby  is  three  to 
six  months  of  age,  unless  he  is  delicate  or  has 
skin  diseases.  Consult  physician  as  to  suitable 
time.  About  three  weeks  will  see  vaccination 
through;  it  is  rare  that  it  is  severe  in  its  effects, 
and  in  any  event  you  can  rest  assured  that  for 
one  with  'which  vaccination  goes  a  little  hard,  small 
pox  would  have  been  most  severe  and  particularly 


dangerous,  and  is  therefore  all  the  more  fortunate- 
ly averted. 

If  vaccination  does  not  take  it  must  be  repeated; 
it  is  very  rare  that  it  will  not  finally  succeed.  One 
should  be  revaccinated  every  six  years.  If  an  epi- 
demic of  small  pox  appears  every  one  who  has 
not  been  recently  vaccinated  successfully  should 
have   it  done   at   once. 


401 


402     THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


HOME  REMEDIES  IN  A  NUTSHELL 


Colds  for  Children — Molasses,  stewed,  with 
castor  oil  added,  is  palatable  and  an  excellent  first 
aid   remedy. 

Poultices — Wormwood  and  arnica  for  sprains 
and  bruises.  Steep  the  herbs  in  water;  add  corn- 
meal  to   thicken. 

Linseed — Stir  it  into  hot  water — for  inflamma- 
tion. 

Hop  Poultice Boil  hops  in  hot  water,  add  corn- 
meal,    mustard   and    ginger. 

Bread  and  Milk  Poultice — To  make  a  bread 
poultice  break  a  quantity  of  coarse  bread  crumbs, 
not  crusts,  in  a  heated  bowl  and  cover  with  boiling 
water.  Place  a  plate  over  the  bowl  till  the  water 
has  been  soaked  up  by  the  bread;  strain  off  the 
water  and  put  the  water-soaked  bread  in  a  flannel 
bag. 

Emergency  Flash  Light — Keep  a  small  flash  light 
hung  on  the  inside  of  the  door  to  your  medicine 
cabinet,  and  use  it  to  prevent  taking  of  wrong 
medicine  by  mistake.  It  is  also  far  more  conven- 
ient than  turning  on  and  off  electric  lights  as  one 
moves   around   the    house   at   night   waiting   on   one 

who  is  sick and  less  likely  to  disturb  or  wake  the 

patient. 

Accidents Disinfectants In    the    last    analysis, 

disinfectant    washes     simmer    down    principally    to 

three:  iodine,    lysol,   and   hot  water especially  hot 

water.  One  should  have  on  hand  always  iodine 
and  lysol,  with  apparatus  for  making  water  hot 
at  once.      We   might  add   carron   oil,   for  burns. 

A  Stopper  Hint — When  putting  a  stopper  into 
a  bottle  always  give  it  a  half  turn  round  after  it  is 
in.      This  will  prevent  it  from  sticking. 

Back  and  Chest  Plaster — For  backache  and  pain 
in  the  chest  a  belladonna  and  capsicum  plaster  is 
advisable;    can    be    obtained    at    all   drug   stores. 

Mustard  a  Cure-AH — Mustard  is  the  nearest  ap- 
proach to  a  univerasl  cure-all.  Few  pains  will 
not  give  "way  before  a  mustard  plaster,  and  a  wide 
range  of  internal  inflammations  from  colds  and 
other  causes  may  be  stopped  by  its  timely  appli- 
cation. It  is  the  first  best  resort  in  threatened 
pneumonia,  congestion  of  the  lungs  or  undeter- 
mined cold  on  the  chest. 

A  Mustard  Ointment  is  made  as  follows;  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  mutton  tallow,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  goose  or  hen's  oil,  1  tablespoonful  of  spirits  of 
camphor,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  ammonia,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  ground  mustard;  mix  and  put  in  a 
covered    glass   jar. 

Rub  over  the  lungs  and  throat  or  on  any  sprain 
or  hurt  when  the  skin  is  not  broken. 


The  Efficient  Borax — Borax  is  an  efficient  and 
ever-present  remedy  for  many  ills,  and  owing  to 
its  inexpensiveness,  it  is  within  the  reach  of  the 
housewife  of  most  limited  means.  Applied  locally 
on  linen,  it  has  been  found  to  be  a  remarkable 
cure  for  erysipelas;  for  catarrhal  difficulties  it  will 
give  relief  if  snuffed  in  the  nostrils,  making  a 
solution  of  one  dram  of  borax  to  one-half  pint  of 
soft  water;  as  a  gargle  it  benefits  sore  throats;  for 
weak  and  inflamed  eyes  it  proves  desirable  as  a 
wash. 

Cure  for  Fever  Blisters — Carbolic  acid,  6  drops; 
glycerine,     I    teaspoonful;    rosewater,    10    drops. 

Ivy  Poisoning — Tansy  tea,  made  good  and 
strong;  wash  affected  parts  frequently,  and  drink 
some  three  or  four  times  a  day.  Make  it  nice  and 
fresh  for  every  drink.  It  is  blood  cooling  and 
purifying  and  it  makes  one  less  susceptible  to  the 
poison. 

Macaroni     "Straw" A    stick    of    macaroni    will 

serve  in  place  of  a  glass  tube  for  a  patient  "who  can- 
not sit  up  to  drink,  or  will  sometimes  induce  a 
child  to  drink  its  milk  when  otherwise  it  would 
not. 

Oranges  and  Lemons — Oranges  possess  a  spe- 
cial value  in  lung  diseases,  the  acid  (citrate  of 
potash)  tending  to  prevent  pneumonia.  They  are 
a  good  laxative,  if  three  or  four  are  taken  daily. 
They  are  said  to  destroy  the  craving  for  alcoholic 
stimulants. 

Lemons  contain  citric  acid,  which  combines  with 
alkalis  and  circulates  in  the  blood  as  alkaline  salts. 
Hence  lemons  make   blood  and  urine   less  acid,   or 

rather    more    alkaline blood    never    becomes    acid 

in  life. 

For  Over-Fatigue — Hot  milk  heated  to  as  high 
a  temperature  as  it  can  be  drunk  is  a  most  re- 
freshing stimulant  in  cases  of  cold  or  over-fatigue. 
Its  action  is  very  quick  and  grateful.  It  gives 
real  strength  as  well  as  acting  as  a  food. 

Court  Plaster — Before  using  a  piece  of  court 
plaster  prick  it  all  over  with  a  fine  needle.  This 
prevents  the  usual  unpleasant  drawing  sensation. 

To  Prevent  a  Blue  Bruise — If  sweet  oil  is  ap- 
plied to  the  skin  after  a  blow  or  bruise  it  will  not 
turn  black  and  blue. 

Castor  Oil  for  Wounds Castor  oil  is  an  ad- 
mirable dressing  for  slight  abrasions,  burns  and 
minor  wounds.  First  wash  wound  with  some  anti- 
septic solution  or  paint  with  tincture  of  iodine 
and  then  cover  ■with  gauze  saturated  with  castor 
oil. 


403 


404        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


Sugar  and  Salt  for  Wounds — Sugar  is  used  as 
a  dressing  for  infected  wounds  on  the  European 
battle  fields,  and  with  good  results.  The  British 
Government  has  found  that  wounded  men  on  ships, 
■whose  injuries  have  been  washed  with  common 
sea  water,  make  better  recoveries  than  those  treat- 
ed in  field  hospitals,  the  conclusion  being  that  the 
salt  waters  of  the  ocean  are  an  ideal  antiseptic. 

Ptomaine   Poisoning Treatment:     Castor   oil,    at 

first;  starvation;  heat  applied  to  abdomen  to  relieve 
pain;  more  castor  oil,  at  last. 

Garlic  for  Wounds — Garlic  applied  to  a  'wound 
stops  the  infection  and  heals  quickly,  whereas 
many  modern  antiseptics  used  in  fashionable  prac- 
tice injure  the  tissues.  Garlic  has  been  tested  thor- 
oughly at  the  Paddington  Infirmary  in  London, 
England,  as  well  as  in  field  hospitals  in  France. 

An  old  French  peasant  woman  was  found  to 
have  dressed  the  sores  and  wounds  of  soldiers 
in  the  war  zone  with  remarkable  results.  An  army 
surgeon  investigated,  and  garlic  is  now  sold  by 
the  ton  where  it  was  formerly  sold  by  the  ounce 
in  English  chemists'  shops.  Garlic  juice,  diluted 
with  three  or  four  parts  of  distilled  water,  seems  to 
be    the    standard    dressing. 

Ointment  for  Eczema — Pulverized  zinc  oxide 
and  amyl,  J/2  ounce  each,  vaseline,  1  ounce;  for 
local  use.  Apply  to  parts  affected  and  wrap 
with  a  cloth.  Wear  rubber  coat  or  kid  fingers 
from  gloves.  Do  not  bathe  eczema  spots  for 
three  days  after  applying  paste,  but  keep  spots  cov- 
ered  well   with   paste. 

For  a  Burn — Apply  equal  parts  of  white  of  egg 
and  olive  oil  mixed  together,  then  cover  with  a 
piece  of  old   linen. 

Or   hold  burned   portion   of   the   skin   over   heat. 

Or  apply  at  once  cooking  soda,  then  cover  with 
cloth  and  keep  same  wet  with  cold  "water. 

Nose  Bleed — When  the  nose  is  bleeding  never 
hold  it  over  a  basin  or  hold  the  head  down  in 
any  way.  This  only  causes  further  rush  of  blood 
to  the  broken  tissue  in  the  nose.  The  head  should 
be  held  up  and  back,  the  flow  being  caught  in  a 
handkerchief  or  cloth. 

One  of  the  most  effective  and  simple  means  of 
checking  nose-bleed  is  to  press  on  the.  upper  lip. 
Near  the  under  surface  of  the  lip  runs  the  artery 
that  supplies  the  interior  nasal  passages  where 
the  ruptures  occur.  If  this  is  pressed,  the  flow 
of  blood  is  mechanically  checked,  thus  allowing 
the  blood  around  the  broken  tissues  to  congeal  and 
seal  up  the  opening. 

If  merely  pressing  with  the  finger  does  not  suc- 
ceed, place  a  wad  of  paper  under  the  lip  and  fold 
the  lip  over  it,  holding  it  down  tight. 


As  a  further  remedy  for  nose  bleeding,  if  pro- 
longed, a  little  powdered  alum  may  be  placed 
within  the  nostrils.  Above  all,  absolute  rest  and 
quiet  is  enjoined.  Do  not  blow  the  nose  at  any 
cost.  Allow  the  blood  to  fill  up  the  nostrils  and 
wait  for  the  coagulation  to  occur.  The  overflow 
will  undoubtedly  find  its  way  into  the  mouth,  which 
may  easily  be  cleared  away. 

There  is  always  a  cause  for  nose  bleeding,  and 
a  specialist  should  be  consulted  for  correct  diag- 
nosis and  condition  treated.  Cases  of  nose  bleed- 
ing are  on  record  that  could  not  be  controlled, 
resulting  in  exsanguination. 

Bran  Baths  for  Nervousness — One  of  the  best 
aids  for  the  nervous  woman  who  is  trying  to  re- 
duce her  fractious  nerves,  is  the  bran  bath  just  be- 
fore retiring  at  night.  This  not  only  has  a  sooth- 
ing effect,  but  incidentally  softens  and  whitens  the 
skin. 

To  make  the  bath,  buy  ordinary  bran  at  a  feed 
store  and  keep  it  in  a  tin  box  away  from  mice. 
Make  a  bag  of  cheesecloth,  from  12  to  18  inches 
square,  and  stuff  it  with  bran  until  about  as  full 
as  a  pine  pillow.  This  bag  is  put  in  a  bathtub 
half  filled  with  warm  water,  and  squeezed  until 
the  water  is  brown  and  bubbly.  It  is  not  well 
to  remain  in  the  water  longer  than  five  or  six 
minutes;  if  possible,  the  bather  should  rest  ten 
minutes  and  then  be  massaged.  If  there  is  no  one 
to  do  the  massaging  rub  the  body  thoroughly 
with   a    rough    towel    or    knead    it   with    the   hands. 

Insomnia   Remedies There  are  two  very  simple 

but  effective  remedies  for  the  kind  of  sleeplessness 
that  comes  from  overwork  or  nervous  exhaustion. 
One  is  to  have  the  feet  very  warm.  Put  them 
against  a  rubber  bag  filled  with  hot  water,  which 
is  better  than  an  earthen  bottle  as  it  will  retain 
the  heat  for  hours.  The  second  method  is  sim- 
pler. Discard  the  pillow,  turn  over  and  lie  on 
the  stomach  with  hands  clasped  under  the  fore- 
head to  lift  the  head  a  trifle.  This  will  often  send 
one  to  sleep. 

When  you  are  tired  and  nervous,  a  good  rubbing 
all  over  the  body  with  the  following  lotion  will  be 
very  restful;  diluted  alcohol  six  ounces,  cologne 
water  six  ounces,  tannin  ten  grains.  Lie  quietly  in 
bed  after  the  rubbing  for  half  an  hour. 

The  Tired  Feeling — Much  fatigue,  otherwise 
not  readily  accounted  for,  is  unquestionably  owing 
to  over-eating,  especially  of  protein  foods  such  as 
beans,  cheese,  etc.,  which  do  not  fully  digest  and 
consequently  leave  poisons  in  the  system. 

To  Reduce  Superfluous  Flesh — Deep  breathing 
is  essential  and  may  be  practiced  almost  anywhere 
in  the  open  air,  although  of  course  you  can  obtain 
the  greatest  benefit  from  this  exercise  when  you 
can  wear  a  loose  garment  that  will  allow  absolute 


FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH— HOUSE  REMEDIES  405 

freedom    of    the    muscles.       When    practicing    deep  for   the   exercise   strengthens   the   muscles   and   may 

breathing   indoors    stand    by   an    open   window   and  be  apphed  to  oniy  those  parts  of  the  anatomy  that 

accompany   your  breathing  with  a   simple  arm   ex-  i     .1  1  .1        1        1       1  ^  , 

need     the    treament;    while    the    baths     reduce    the 

The  process  of  reducing  by  means  of  exercise  is  weiSht  of  the  entire  body  and  have  no  strengthen- 

a   far   saner   method   than   that   of   using   hot  baths,  ing  effect. 

(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


406     THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VII— FAMILY  DOCTOR,  HEALTH 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


SECTION  VIII. 

PERSONAL 
HYGIENE  and 


THE  PERSON 


THE  HUMAN  MACHINE 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin  No.  3) 

THE   CELL 

The  unit  of  the  body  is  the  single  cell,  the  knowledge  of  which 
need  not  be  entirely  through  the  imagination,  as  a  close  counterpart  of 
this  unit  cell  exists  in  nature.  The  school  boy,  who  explores  the  con- 
tents of  the  stagnant  pool,  sometimes  gathers  one  of  these  microscopic 
cells  into  his  tin  can  which  he  uses  to  scoop  up  pollywogs  from 
the  pond.  He  does  not  see  the  cell  until  his  teacher  puts  a  drop 
of  water  under  the  microscope.  Sometimes  after  doing  this  she  sees  a  little  jelly-like 
mass  under  the  cover  glass.  This  mass  moves  about  and  presently  after  stretch- 
ing out  a  portion  of  itself  into  an  arm-like  shape,  it  gathers  in  a  morsel  of  food.  The 
jelly-like  mass,  called  the  ameba,  is  the  lowest  form  of  animal  life  and  closely  re- 
sembles one  single  cell  of  the  body. 

The  one  cell  of  the  ameba  performs  all  the  necessary  functions  of  its  life 
processes.  It  must  in  turn  act  as  arms,  means  of  locomotion,  and  digestive  sys- 
tem. The  results  are  elementary,  because  the  facilities  for  work  are  most  elemen- 
tary. There  are  no  specialized  forces  and  consequently  no  high  type  of  life.  The 
human  body  occupies  a  position  of  the  strongest  contrast  to  this  simple  one-celled 
creature  and  it  owes  its  high  position  in  the  scale  of  life,  to  the  fact  that  there  is 
every  provision  for  specialized  activities  and  for  perfect  cooperation  between  the 
organs  that  perform  those  activities.  The  millions  of  cells  that  make  up  the  body 
are  so  formed,  so  grouped  and  so  related  as  to  fit  each  cell  and  each  class  of  cells 
for  its  special  work. 

POSITION  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  ORGANS 

Body  Cavities — The  body  is  divided  into  two  cavities  by  means  of  a  tough  membrane 
called  the  diaphragm.  The  upper  cavity  is  called  the  thorax.  The  lower  cavity  is  called 
the  abdominal  cavity. 

I.     Organs  of  Respiration 

These  organs  are  located  entirely  within  the  chest  cavity  or  thorax. 

The  thorax  is  lined  with  muscles  which  have  an  inner  lining  of  a  delicate  membrane 
called  the  pleura. 


407 


408        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 

The  trachea  is  a  tube  which  connects  the  nasal  passages  with  the  lungs.  It  is  made 
up  of  a  series  of  cartilaginous  rings  which  are  connected  by  means  of  muscles. 

The  right  and  left  bronchi  branch  from  the  lower  end  of  the  trachea  to  the  right  and 
left  lung.  The  bronchi  are  like  the  trachea  in  structure  and  they,  with  their  many  branches, 
form  a  net  work  of  tubes  through  the  lungs.  Each  tube  leads  to  a  small  cell  or  air  chamber. 
The  spaces  between  the  tubes  and  air  cells  are  filled  in  by  connective  tissue,  which  joins  all 
parts  of  the  lungs  into  a  spongy  mass  of  tissue.  The  whole  is  given  stability  by  the  tough 
cartilage  in  the  bronchi  that  extend  through  the  lungs. 

II.     Organs  of  Digestion 

The  digestive  system  begins  with  the  teeth  and  extends  through  the  entire  body.  It  is 
really  one  long  tube  called  the  alimentary  canal.  The  chief  subdivisions  of  the  system  are, 
mouth,  stomach,  intestines. 

The  mouth  consists  of  lips,  teeth,  tongue*  and  palate  (roof  of  the  mouth).  The  mouth 
leads  directly  into  the  pharynx,  which  lies  directly  back  of  the  trachea.  The  pharynx  is 
the  upper  part  of  the  long  tube  called  the  oesophagus.  The  oesophagus  is  connected  with  the 
pharynx  at  its  upper  extremity  and  with  the  stomach  at  its  lower  extremity.  The  oesoph- 
agus is  a  muscular  tube.  It  is  located  midway  between  the  right  and  left  side  of  the  body 
lies  directly  back  of  the  trachea. 

The  stomach  is  a  muscular  bag  lined  with  a  mucous  membrane.  It  lies  directly  below 
the  diaphragm  and  to  the  left  side  of  the  body. 

The  mucous  membrane  which  lines  the  stomach  contains  many  glands  which  supply 
the  digestive  fluids.      The  capacity  of  the  stomach  is  about  three  pints. 

The  narrower  end  of  the  stomach  joins  the  small  intestine  at  the  right  side  of  the 
body,  directly  back  of  the  liver.  This  opening  of  the  stomach  into  the  intestines  is  called 
the  pylorus. 

The  small  intestine  is  a  tube-like  organ  composed  of  muscle  and  lined  with  a  delicate 
membrane.  It  occupies  the  middle  portion  of  the  abdominal  cavity  and  lies  directly  below 
the  stomach.  The  many  folds  of  the  small  intestines  are  attached  to  the  body  wall  by 
means  of  a  membrane  called  the  mesentery. 

The  small  intestines  join  the  large  intestines  at  the  lower  part  of  the  abdominal  cav- 
ity on  the  right  side  of  the  body.      The  appendix  is  attached  just  below  this  point. 

The  large  intestine  extends  up  the  right  side,  across  the  abdominal  cavity,  just  below 
the  stomach  and  down  the  left  side  of  the  abdominal  cavity. 

The  mucous  lining  of  the  intestines  contains  glands  which  produce  digestive  fluids. 

The  pancreas  and  liver  are  glands  which  supply  digestive  fluids,  which  are  poured  into 
the  intestines.     These  fluids  and  their  uses  wil    be  studied  in  a  following  lesson. 

III.     Organs  of  Circulation 

The  heart  is  a  muscular  organ  located  in  the  central  part  of  the  chest  cavity,  between 
the  lungs.  It  is  slightly  nearer  to  the  left  than  the  right  side  of  the  body.  It  is  just  above 
the  diaphragm. 

The  heart  consists  of  right  and  left  sides,  which  are  entirely  separate  compartments. 
Each  side  consists  of  a  large  chamber  called  the  ventricle  and  a  small  chamber  called  the 
auricle.     The  ventricles  are  provided  with  a  very  strong  muscular  wall. 

The  valves  are  little  trap  doors  which  control  the  direction  of  the  flow  of  blood.  They 
are  located  between  the  auricles  and  ventricles  and  between  the  ventricles  and  arteries. 

The  arteries  are  muscular  tubes  that  carry  blood  from  the  heart  to  all  organs  of  the 
body.  The  veins  are  muscular  tubes  that  carry  blood  from  the  organs  to  the  heart.  The 
veins  have  little  pocket-like  valves. 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— THE  HUMAN  MACHINE  409 

IV.     Organs  of  Excretion 

The  skin,  which  covers  the  entire  body,  is  composed  of  three  layers:  The  outer  layer, 
called  the  epidermis,  is  the  tough,  protective  layer.  The  second  layer,  or  dermis,  contains 
the  blood  vessels  which  feed  the  skin.  The  under  layer  consists  of  a  loose  tissue  and  con- 
tains the  glands  which  secrete  the  perspiration.  This  secretion  is  conducted  to  the  surface 
of  the  skin  by  means  of  tubes  that  extend  from  the  gland  to  the  surface  of  the  skin  and 
deposit  the  secretion   through   the  pores   of   the  skin. 

The  lungs  are  active  as  excretory  organs.  Their  structure  has  been  considered  under 
respiration. 

The  kidneys  are  bean-shaped  glands.  The  center  of  the  kidney  is  a  basin  called  the 
pelvis.  Opening  into  this  pelvis  are  great  numbers  of  ducts  which  end  in  small  cavities 
which  secrete  the  urine.  The  secretion  is  carried  by  the  ducts  to  the  pelvis  of  the  kidney, 
and  from  the  pelvis  through  a  long  tube  called  the  ureter  to  the  urinary  bladder. 

The  intestines  are  provided  with  a  strong  layer  of  muscles  which  contract  and  force 
the  wastes  from  the  body.      This  makes  the  intestines  very  important  organs  of  excretion. 

V.     Protection 

The  skin  covers  the  delicate  parts  of  the  body  and  prevents  the  entrance  of  harmful 
material  and  organisms. 

The  bony  frame  work  of  the  body  gives  the  body  its  shape  and  stability  and  protects 
the  delicate  organs  from  injury. 

The  bone  is  fed  by  means  of  a  tough  covering  called  the  periosteum.  This  membrane 
contains  many  blood  vessels  which  feed  the  bone  through  its  spongy  surface.  The  process 
of  feeding  is  aided  by  the  fact  that  the  bones  are  hollow  and  are  filled  with  marrow.  The 
bone  is  provided  with  a  system  of  canals  or  tubes  which  conduct  food  throughout  the  en- 
tire bone. 

The  organs  of  the  chest  cavity  are  protected  by  the  spine,  ribs,  clavicle,  sternum  and 
scapula. 

The  spine  consists  of  33  bones  called  vertebrae.  These  bones  are  separated  by  masses 
of  spongy  bones.  They  are  bound  together  by  strong  tissue  called  ligaments.  The  ribs  are 
flexible  bones  which  have  the  front  ends  attached  to  the  sternum  and  the  back  ends  at- 
tached to  the  spine. 

The  scapula  is  the  broad,   flat  bone  called  the  shoulder  blade. 

The  clavicle  is  the  collar  bone.  It  is  attached  to  the  sternum  in  front  and  to  the  sca- 
pula at  the  back. 

The  brain  and  other  organs  of  the  head  are  protected  by  the  skull  which  is  made  up  of 
separate  bones.  The  frontal  occupies  the  front  part  of  the  head,  the  two  temporal  bones 
are  directly  above  and  back  of  the  ears,  the  occipital  bone  is  located  between  and  below  the 
temporal  bones,  the  two  parietal  bones  are  located  between  the  temporal  bones  and  above 
the  occipital  bones. 

The  organs  of  the  abdominal  cavity  are  protected  by  the  spine,  the  ribs  and  the  pelvis. 
The  pelvis  is  a  strong  arch-shaped  bone.  It  is  attached  to  the  spine.  It  curves  up  and  to- 
ward the  front,  forming  a  sort  of  basin  which  supports  the  organs  of  the  abdominal  cavity. 

The  nervous  system  sends  its  branches  to  every  part  of  the  body  and  serves  as  pro- 
tection because  it  gives  warning  of  danger.  The  blind  man  feels  the  presence  of  the  stove 
through  the  nerves  of  sensation,  and  avoids  being  burned. 

VI.      Organs  of  Stimulation 
The  chief  organ  of  stimulation  is  the  brain.      The  brain  consists  of  a  fore-brain  called 
the  cerebrum  and  the  hind-brain.      The  hind-brain  is  made  up   of  the  cerebellum  which  is 
at  the  extreme  back  of  the  head,   the  pons  varoli,   which  is   directly  under  the   cerebellum 


410         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 

and  the  medulla  oblongata,  which  joins  the  spinal   cord.      The   medulla   oblongata   is   also 
known  as  the  bulb. 

The  outer  covering  of  the  brain  is  a  tough  membrane  which  conforms  to  the  many 
convolutions  of  the  brain.  Thes<e  convolutions  are  a  striking  example  of  the  economy  of 
nature.  Much  of  the  brain  surface  has  been  stored  away  in  the  skull  because  of  these  con- 
volutions. 

The  spinal  cord  is  a  tube  having  thick,  protective  walls.  It  is  composed  of  white  and 
gray  matter  just  as  the  brain  is.  The  spinal  cord  joins  the  brain  just  below  the  bulb  (or 
medulla  oblongata)  and  occupies  the  central  cavity  of  the  spinal  column.  The  spinal  column 
protects  this  delicate  organ  from  injury.  The  spinal  cord  sends  out  nerve  branches  to  all 
parts  of  the  body. 

VII.     Organs  of  Activity 

Motion — The  bones  of  the  body  are  so  constructed  as  to  aid  motion.  The  fact  that 
they  are  hollow  makes  them  light,  gives  them  added  strength,  and  prevents  shock  to  the 
organs  of  the  body. 

The  bones  are  provided  with  joints  to  suit  each  purpose.  The  head  is  attached  by  a 
pivot  joint,  because  it  is  necessary  to  turn  the  head  in  all  directions.  The  elbow  has  a  com- 
bination of  hinge  and  pivot  joints. 

The  upper  arm  and  the  upper  leg  are  attached  by  ball  and  socket  jonts  which  allow 
them  to  move  freely.  Hinge  joints,  which  allow  free  motion  backward  and  forward,  are 
located  at  the  wrist,  knee  and  ankle. 

The  joints  are  held  in  position  by  means  of  tough  cords  called  tendons. 

The  bones  are  covered  with  layers  of  tough  muscle  that  contract  and  expand  when  they 
are  stimulated  by   the  nerves  which  lie  within  the  muscles. 

Speech — The  larynx  is  the  upper  end  of  the  trachea.  It  is  composed  of  tough  walls 
of  cartilage.  The  vocal  cords  are  tough  muscular  cords  which  are  stretched  across  the  lar- 
ynx. As  the  air  is  forced  over  these  cords,  they  are  caused  to  vibrate.  The  vibration  causes 
the  sound.  The  hard  palate  acts  as  a  sounding  board  and  intensifies  this  sound.  The  mus- 
cles of  the  lips  and  tongue  contract  and  help  to  formulate  the  sound  into  speech.  The  teeth 
help  to  retain  the  sound,  and  are  an  aid  in  the  process  of  speech. 

VIII.     Organs  of  Sensation 

Sight — The  eye  is  protected  by  a  tough  outer  coat  called  the  sclerotic  coat.  This  is 
seen  in  the  white  of  the  eye.  The  inner  coat  called  the  choroid  contains  blood  vessels 
which  nourish  the  eye.  It  also  contains  black  pigment  whcih  prevents  the  entrance  of  light 
except  through  the  cornea. 

The  cornea  is  the  front  part  of  the  eye  ball.  This  part  of  the  eye  is  covered  with  the 
sclerotic  coat  and  is  transparent.  It  is  not  covered  with  the  choroid  coat.  The  choroid  coat 
is  folded  back  to  form  the  iris  which  is  the  colored  part  of  the  eye.  The  opening  in  the 
iris  is  called  the  pupil  which  allows  the  rays  of  light  to  enter  the  eye.  The  pupil  is  pro- 
vided with  muscles  which  contract  when  light  is  too  strong.  This  is  one  of  Nature's  plans 
for  protecting  the  eye. 

Directly  back  of  the  pupil  of  the  eye,  there  is  a  lens  which  helps  to  bring  the  rays  of 
light  to  a  focus.  The  portion  of  the  eye  in  front  of  the  lens  is  filled  with  a  fluid  called  the 
aqueous  humor.  The  portion  of  the  eye  back  of  the  lens  is  filled  with  a  liquid  called  the 
vitreous  humor.     These  liquids  act  with  the  lens  in  bringing   the   rays  of  light  to  a  focus. 

The  inner  coat  of  the  eye  is  called  the  retina.  It  contains  the  fibres  of  the  optic  nerve 
and  is  the  sensitive  plate  for  the  rays  of  light.  The  optic  nerve  branches  out  from  the  re- 
tina and  connects  with  the  visual  center  of  the  brain. 

Hearing — The  sense  of  hearing  is  due  to  the  vibration  of  sound  waves  upon  the  tympa- 
num which  is  a  tough  membrane  that  is  stretched  across  the  opening  between  the  outer  and 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— THE  HUMAN  MACHINE  41 1 

inner  ear.  The  outer  ear  collects  the  sound  waves  and  conducts  them  to  the  tympanum  and 
then  on  into  the  inner  ear. 

The  inner  ear  consists  of  a  chamber  which  contains  three  small  bones  called  the  anvil, 
stirrup  and  hammer.  Sound  waves  are  picked  up  by  this  chain  of  bones  and  carried  through 
a  sort  of  spiral  chamber  to  the  cochlea.  The  inner  ear  stands  in  relation  to  sound  just  as  the 
retina  does  to  sight.  It  is  the  sensitive  surface  that  picks  up  the  sound  waves  and  conducts 
them  to  the  auditory  nerve.  The  fibers  of  the  auditory  nerve  lie  in  the  inner  ear  and  branch 
out  into  the  auditory  nerve  which  is  connected  with  the  brain. 

The  eustachian  tube  connects  the  inner  ear  with  the  pharynx. 

Smell  and  Taste — The  nerves  of  taste  end  in  little  papillae,  which  give  the  rough  ap- 
pearance to  the  tongue.  The  sense  of  taste  is  conducted  to  the  brain  by  the  stimulation  of 
the  papillae  and  by  means  of  the  nerves  of  taste. 

The  nerves  of  smell  end  in  the  same  way  in  the  nasal  passages  and  produce  the  sense 
of  smell. 

Position — Some  physiologists  consider  that  the  sense  of  position  is  due  to  the  fact  that 
the  controlling  nerves  end  in  the  semi-circular  canal  of  the  ear.  The  change  in  the  position 
of  the  fluid  in  this  canal  stimulates  the  connecting  nerve  and  causes  the  sensation  of  changed 
positions. 

Hunger  and  Thirst,  Cold  and  Heat — These  sensations  are  due  to  the  bodily  conditions 
that  exist  at  the  nerve  ending.     The  sensation  is  carried  by  the  nerve  to  the  brain. 

The  structure  of  the  body  illustrates  most  clearly  the  value  of  specialized  working 
forces  which  are  perfectly  cooperative  and  thoroughly  organized  into  one  powerful  whole. 

THE  RUNNING  OF  THE  MACHINE 
I.     Digestion  of  Food 

A  dinner  may  consist  of  roast  beef,  potatoes,  bread  and  butter,  plum  pudding  and  tea. 
How  is  that  food  digested,  or  in  other  words,  changed  in  such  a  way  that  it  can  become 
a  part  of  the  body? 

In  this  study  of  digestion,  begin  with  the  bread  and  let  that  represent  the  whole  class 
of  starchy  foods.  The  principal  foods  in  this  class  are  potatoes,  corn,  rice,  cereal  foods  of 
all  kinds,  all  kinds  of  flour  and  foods  made  from  them,  peas  and  beans. 

Digestion  in  the  Mouth — The  bread  is  thoroughly  masticated  by  the  teeth.  This  breaks 
it  into  fine  particles  and  makes  it  easily  dissolved.  The  salivary  glands,  which  are  located 
below  the  jaw  bones  and  near  the  ears,  manufacture  the  saliva  and  deposit  it  in  the  mouth. 
The  flow  of  saliva  is  increased  by  the  thorough  mastication  and  is  also  stimulated  by  the 
flavor  of  the  food. 

The  saliva  contains  water  which  moistens  the  food  and  a  substance  called  ptyalin  which 
changes  the  starch  to  dextrine.  The  change  to  dextrine  is  the  first  step  in  the  change  of 
starch   to  sugar.      There   is   a   slight   change   to  maltose. 

Digestion  in  the  Stomach — The  bread  passes  into  the  stomach  and  the  digestion  con- 
tinues until  the  bread  becomes  mixed  with  the  acid  of  the  stomach.  After  that  starch  can- 
not be  digested  in  the  stomach.     There  is  very  little  digestion  of  starch  in  the  stomach. 

Digestion  in  the  Intestines — The  bread  passes  from  the  stomach  into  the  intestines,  where 
it  is  acted  upon  by  the  amylopsin  of  the  pancreatic  juice.  The  juice  is  poured  into  the  in- 
testines from  the  gland  called  the  pancreas.  The  amylopsin  changes  the  starchy  part  of  the 
bread  to  a  substance  called  maltose.  The  maltose  is  acted  upon  by  the  intestinal  juices  and 
changed  to  glucose  and  fructose,  in  which  form  it  is  found  in  the  blood. 

The  slice  of  bread  has  been  acted  upon  by  the  teeth,  saliva,  amylopsin  and  intestinal 
juice  and  has  now  entered  the  blood  circulation.  As  the  glucose  passes  into  the  liver,  a 
portion  of  it  is  stored  away  for  future  use  in  the  form  of  glycogen.     Glycogen  is  also  stored 


4 1 2         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


in  the  muscles  and  white  blood  corpuscles.  This  supply  acts  as  a  reserve  source  of  heat 
and  is  given  out  in  the  blood  stream  as  needed. 

The  dinner  suggested  provided  roast  beef.  Its  digestion  will  be  considered  in  the 
same  way.  The  digestion  of  the  roast  beef  represents  the  process  of  digestion  for  all  pro- 
tein. The  chief  protein-giving  foods  are  lean  meat,  eggs,  cheese,  milk,  fish,  peas,  beans, 
macaroni. 

Digestion  in  the  Mouth — The  beef  is  thoroughly  masticated  by  the  teeth  and  is  soft- 
ened by  the  saliva.     The  saliva  has  no  power  to  digest  protein. 

Digestion  in  the  Stomach — The  stomach  is  provided  with  a  digestive  fluid  called  gas- 
tric juice.  The  gastric  juice  consists  of  hydrochloric  acid,  pepsin  and  rennin.  The  acid  acts 
as  an  antiseptic  and  helps  to  counteract  the  effect  of  harmful  substances  that  may  have  en- 
tered the  stomach.  The  rennin  changes  the  protein  of  milk  into  a  curd.  Gastric  juice  as  a 
whole  is  only  slightly  active  in  the  digestion  of  protein.  It  does  change  protein  to  proteose 
and  peptone,  but  only  slightly.  The  stomach  is  more  a  storehouse  for  food  that  is  waiting 
to  enter  the  intestine,  than  a  means  of  digesting  food.  The  chief  purpose  of  the  gastric 
juice  is  to  aid  in  digesting  protein,  converting  proteids  into  peptones,  a  substance  easily 
assimilable  to  the  blood  stream. 

Digestion  in  the  Intestines — The  pancreatic  juice  is  a  strong  alkaline  fluid.  The  action 
of  the  ferment  called  amylopsin  has  been  studied  in  the  digestion  of  the  slice  of  bread.  The 
ferment  called  trypsin  is  the  active  ferment  in  digesting  protein.  The  mass  of  food  which 
enters  the  intestine  from  the  stomach  is  strongly  acid.  The  ferment  trypsin  cannot  act  in 
an  acid  medium,  but  the  strong  alkali  of  the  pancreatic  juice  is  sufficient  to  neutralize  the  acid 
at  once.  The  trypsin  acts  upon  the  protein  and  changes  it  to  peptone  and  proteose.  The 
pancreatic  juice  is  aided  by  the  intestinal  juice  in  preparing  peptones  and  proteose  for  the 
blood.  The  ferment  of  the  intestinal  juice  breaks  up  the  peptones  and  proteoses  into  sim- 
pler forms.     The  digested  protein  foods  are  taken  by  the  cells  in  the  form  of  amino  acids. 

The  butter  and  the  fat  of  the  plum  pudding  in  the  suggested  dinner  are  digested  by 
means  of  ferments,  not  yet  considered,  and  the  action  of  these  ferments  will  be  studied 
next.      The  chief  fatty  foods  are  butter,   cream,   olive  oil,   cheese  and   fat  meats. 

Digestion  in  the  Mouth — Fatty  foods  are  thoroughly  masticated  and  moistened  in  the 
mouth,   but  no  digestion  takes  place  there. 

Digestion  in  the  Stomach — The  fatty  foods  pass  into  the  stomach  and  are  stored,  there 
until  they  pass  into  the  intestines;  but  very  little  digestion  takes  place.  Fats  are  slightly 
emulsified  in  the  stomach  and  stomach  lipase  has  slight  action  upon  fat. 

Digestion  in  the  Intestines — The  pancreatic  juice  contains  a  ferment  called  lipase.  This 
ferment  has  the  power  to  change  fats  into  fatty  acids  and  glycerin.  It  also  splits  the  fat  into 
small  globules,  making  an  emulsion  of  the  fatty  mass.  The  contents  of  the  intestine  are 
alkaline  and  the  fatty  acids  combines  with  the  alkali,  making  a  soapy  mixture  very  simi- 
lar to  the  soap  which  is  made  by  heating  fat  and  lye  together. 

SUMMARY 

Results 

Starch  to  maltose 

Starch  to  maltose 

Sucrose  to    glucose   and   fructose 

Coagulates    casein 

Protein  to  proteose  and  peptones 

Protein  to  proteoses  and  peptones,  polypeptids  and 

amino  acids 
Splits  peptone  into  amino  acids  and  ammonia 
Fat  to  glycerin  and  fatty  acid 


Ferments 

Fluid 

Organ 

Ptyalin 

Saliva 

Mouth 

Amylopsin 

Pancreatic 

Intestine 

Investase 

Intestinal 

Intestine 

Rennin 

Gastric 

Stomach 

Pepsin 

Gastric 

Stomach 

Trypsin 

Pancreatic 

Intestine 

Erepsin 

Intestinal 

Intestine 

Lipases 

Gastric  and 

Stomach  and 

Pancreatic 

Intestine 

PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— THE  HUMAN  MACHINE  413 

2.  Assimilation  of  Food 
The  process  of  digestion  has  changed  the  food  into  soluble  form  which  can  be  ab- 
sorbed by  the  tissues.  The  next  step  in  the  feeding  of  the  body  is  the  absorption  of  these 
foods.  This  takes  place  almost  entirely  in  the  small  intestine.  The  surface  of  the  small 
intestine  is  provided  with  microscopic  tube-like  projections  called  villi.  The  villi  absorb  the 
food  and  through  the  villi  it  is  conducted  into  the  circulation  of  the  blood. 

Starch  and  Sugar — After  starch  and  sugar  are  digested,  they  are  absorbed  and  enter 
the  blood  as  glucose.  They  are  taken  to  the  liver  and  a  portion  of  them  stored  as  glyco- 
gen. This  supply  of  glycogen  is  given  out  into  the  blood  from  time  to  time,  in  the  form  of 
glucose.  The  glucose  must  be  carried  to  each  cell  of  the  body  and  become  a  part  of  each 
cell  of  the  body  before  the  body  receives  any  benefit  from  it.  As  the  oxygen  in  the  cell 
combines  with  the  food,  the  blood  becomes  a  part  of  the  cell  or  is  assimilated.  As  this  proc- 
ess takes  place,  a  gas  called  carbondioxide  is  formed.  This  gas  is  a  waste  that  is  disposed 
of  by  means  of  the  lungs. 

Protein — The  digested  protein  is  absorbed  by  the  villi  of  the  small  intestine  and  poured 
into  the  blood.  The  protein  was  changed  to  peptone  by  the  gastric  juice  in  cooperation  with 
the  tripsin  in  the  pancreatic  juice.  The  erepsin  of  the  intestinal  juice  breaks  the  peptone 
into  simpler  substances  which  can  be  safely  taken  into  the  blood. 

Steps  in  Digestion  of  Protein — Proteose,  peptone,  peptid,  amino  acid. 

Fat — The  digested  fat  is  absorbed  from  the  small  intestine  by  means  of  tube-like  ves- 
sels called  lacteals.      From  the  lacteals  the  digested  fat  enters  the  blood  circulation. 

3.     Circulation 

The  blood  is  the  medium  for  carrying  food  to  all  parts  of  the  body  and  for  removing 
wastes  from  the  body. 

Structure  of  the  Blood — The  blood  consists  of  red  blood  corpuscles,  white  blood  cor- 
puscles and  a  fluid  called  plasma.  The  red  blood  corpuscles  carry  oxygen  to  the  tissues  of 
the  body  by  means  of  the  hemoglobin  which  they  contain.  The  white  blood  corpuscles 
have  a  number  of  uses,  but  they  are  chiefly  of  value  in  removing  poison  from  the  blood. 
For  this  reason  they  are  active  in  healing  a  wound.  The  plasma  is  the  fluid  part  of  the 
blood  and  is  90  per  cent  water. 

The  heart  is  a  pump  which  forces  the  blood  through  the  body.  (Study  structure  of 
heart  in  Lesson  I.) 

The  veins  open  into  the  auricles.  The  arteries  open  into  the  ventricles.  (Study  veins, 
arteries,  auricles  and  ventricles  in  Lesson  I.)  It  will  be  well  to  secure  the  heart  of  some  ani- 
mal and  to  locate  these  organs. 

The  flow  of  blood  is  regulated  by  means  of  the  two  sets  of  valves.  There  is  a  valve 
between  each  auricle  and  its  connecting  ventricle.  There  is  also  a  valve  between  each  ven- 
tricle and  its  connecting  artery. 

Course  of  Blood — To  study  this  take  the  circulation  at  some  given  point  and  trace  tne 
blood  back  to  that  point.  Beginning  with  the  left  auricle,  the  blood  flows  into  the  left  ven- 
tricle. The  valve  prevents  the  backward  flow  into  the  auricle.  From  the  left  ventricle,  cer- 
tain branches  of  the  aorta  feed  the  head,  neck,  shoulders  and  arms.  Other  branches  feed  the 
organs  of  the  pelvic  cavity  and  the  legs.  From  these  organs  the  blood  is  carried  by  the 
veins  to  the  right  auricle,  from  the  right  auricle  to  the  right  ventricle,  from  the  right  ventri- 
cle through  the  lungs,  from  the  lungs  to  the  left  auricle,  from  the  left  auricle  to  the  left 
ventricle,   and  then  it  takes  the  same  course  through  the  body  again. 


414  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 

Important — The  blood  which  leaves  the  left  ventricle  to  pass  through  and  feed  the  or- 
gans of  the  body  never  reaches  the  left  ventricle  again  until  it  has  passed  through  the  lungs. 
The  lungs  are  the  repair  station  for  the  blood.  They  supply  the  blood  with  fresh  oxygen 
and  provide  an  outlet  for  impurities. 

The  nervous  system  stimulates  the  action  of  the  muscles  of  the  heart  and  thus  regu- 
lates the  system  of  circulation.  The  perfection  of  the  heart  action  depends  primarily  upon 
the  healthy,  normal  condition  of  the  nervous  system. 

4.     Respiration 

The  nasal  passages  are  provided  for  the  entrance  of  air  into  the  lungs.  If  the  air  is 
taken  in  through  the  mouth,  it  is  an  indication  that  there  is  an  obstruction  in  the  nasal  pas- 
sage, or  that  an  improper  method  of  breathing  has  become  habitual. 

The  lining  of  the  nasal  passages  is  covered  with  a  hair-line  growth  called  cilia.  This 
sieve  formed  by  the  cilia  helps  to  strain  out  the  dust  and  other  injurious  substances  and  pro- 
vides a  strong  argument  in  favor  of  proper  habits  of  breathing. 

The  air  passes  from  the  nasal  passages  to  all  parts  of  the  lungs,  if  deep,  full  breaths  are 
taken.  Proper  breathing  means  that  the  ribs  and  the  diaphragm  are  exercised.  This  can- 
not happen  if  the  clothing  is  too  tight.  This  will  not  happen  unless  the  attention  is  called 
to  the  importance  of  long,  deep  breathing.  It  is  the  function  of  the  process  of  respiration 
to  remove  the  impure  air  from  the  lungs,  to  introduce  pure  air  and  to  strengthen  the  controll- 
ing muscles  by  means  of  exercise.  The  fulfillment  of  this  function  of  the  body  and  upon  a 
sufficient  amount  of  pure  air  to  breathe. 

Nature  demands  that  we: 

1.  Breathe  deeply,  exercise  ribs  and  diaphragm. 

2.  Breathe  through  nostrils. 

3.  Hold  chest  high. 

4.  Hold  shoulders  down  and  back. 

5.  Do  not  handicap  ribs  and  diaphragm  by  tight  clothing  (belts  and  corsets). 

6.  Ventilate  sleeping  and  living  rooms. 

7.  Ventilate  school  room.' 

8.  Ventilate  church,   lecture  room,    office  room,  factory  and  railway  train. 

Note — Ventilate  means — Provide  means  for  the  entrance  of  pure  air  and  the  exit  of 
impure  air. 

5.     Excretion 

Food  is  taken  into  the  body.  It  is  acted  upon  by  ferments  and  so  digested.  The  di- 
gested portion  is  taken  into  the  blood  and  carried  to  the  cells  of  the  body.  These  processes 
leave  waste  matters  that  interfere  with  the  working  of  the  organs  of  the  body,  very  much 
as  soot  and  ashes  interfere  with  the  working  of  a  heating  plant. 

Nature  has  foreseen  this  condition  and  has  amply  provided  the  body  with  means  of  re- 
moving these  wastes.      (Study  organs  of  excretion,  Lesson  I.) 

The  surface  of  the  skin  is  covered  with  pores  that  are  the  opening  of  tube-like  ducts 
that  leads  to  the  perspiratory  glands  in  the  under  tissues  of  the  skin.  These  glands  gather 
poisonous  wastes  and  pour  them  out  upon  the  surface  of  the  skin  (chiefly  carbon  dioxide). 
The  perspiration  collected  by  these  glands  consists  of  water  and  solid  matter.  The  evapora- 
tion of  the  water  removes  heat  from  the  body. 

The  skin  and  the  kidneys  work  hand  in  hand.  If  the  skin  is  suddenly  chilled,  the  ac- 
tion of  perspiratory  glands  is  retarded  and  the  kidneys  become  overworked.  If  the  skin 
does  its  duty  the  kidneys  are  relieved.      (Study  structure  of  kidneys  in  Lesson  I.) 

The  tubules  of  the  kidneys  gather  waste  substances  from  the  blood  and  deposit  them 
into  the  basin  of  the  kidney.     From  this  it  is  discharged  through  the  urinary  bladder. 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— THE  HUMAN  MACHINE  415 

The  amount  of  secretion  from  the  kidneys  is  increased  by  the  use  of  proteins,  the  use 
of  water,  and  by  exposure  to  cold.  Water  acts  as  a  solvent  for  the  solid  constituents  of 
the  urine,  for  that  reason  an  abnormally  great  secretion  of  urine  removes  too  much  water 
from  the  kidneys  and  thus  prevents  the  solution  of  the  solids  in  the  urine. 

The  lungs  act  as  organs  of  excretion  in  that  they  remove  carbon  dioxide  and  other 
substances  which  are  waste  products  after  digestion  and  assimilation  have  been  completed. 
(Study  respiration,  Lesson  II.) 

The  intestines  remove  the  waste  of  digestion.  The  regularity  and  thoroughness  of  their 
work  depend  upon  the  care  of  the  body. 

Foods:  Foods  containing  cellulose  give  bulk  to  the  food  and  help  to  strengthen  the 
muscular  lining  of  the  intestines,  because  they  force  the  muscles  to  push  in  order  to  force  the 
food  through  the  body.  Foods  like  lettuce,  celery,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  onions,  prunes,  dates 
and  rhubarb  are  laxative  because  of  their  bulk.  Other  foods  like  cream,  butter,  olive  oil 
and  fat  meats  are  laxative  because  they  are  lubricants.  Exercise  and  ample  amount  of 
water  and  massage  are  also  important  in  promoting  the  proper  excretory  function  of  the 
intestine. 

The  body  is  so  wisely  planned  that  the  cells  are  able  to  render  harmless  a  certain 
amount  of  the  poisonous  'wastes  of  the  body  and  each  of  these  organs  in  the  excretory  sys- 
tem have  an  important  function  to  perform.  Nature  has  planned  so  well  that  a  little  com- 
mon sense  habitually  made  use  of  in  attention  to  diet,  ventilation,  exercise,  sleep,  rest,  cloth- 
ing and  power  of  relaxation  would  make  aches  and  pains  strangers  to  the  human  family. 
Take  care  of  the  excretory  organs.     Give  the  body  a  thorough  cleansing  by  means  of  them. 

CARE  OF  THE  MACHINE 

The  essentials  of  success  in  the  management  of  any  machine  are,  thorough  knowledge 
of  its  parts  and  their  uses,  an  appreciation  of  its  value,  a  thorough  understanding  of  the 
results  of  harmful  treatment  and  an  active  conscience  concerning  the  care  of  the  machine. 
These  essentials  of  success  apply  most  vitally  to  the  care  of  the  human  machine.  Disease 
is  not  an  accident,   but  failure,   with  reference  to  some  of  these  essentials. 

This  lesson  will  give  some  definite  suggestion  concerning  the  care  of  each  system  of 
the  body. 

1.     Organs  of  Digestion 

Plan  the  meals  wisely.  Make  them  provide  the  body  with  just  food  enough  to  sus- 
tain the  body,  not  to  destroy  it.  Make  them  provide  foods  to  suit  the  age,  occupation, 
climate  and  condition  of  system.  Make  them  represent  a  wise  amount  of  each  of  the  five 
principles.       (Study  lesson  on   foods.) 

Masticate  food  thoroughly.  This  increases  the  flow  of  the  digestive  fluids  and  renders 
the  food  more  soluble  when  mixed  with  the  digestive  fluids. 

Do  not  eat  when  excited,   angry,  anxious  or  over-tired. 

Experiment — A  scientist  introduced  a  piece  of  metal  into  the  digestive  tract  of  a  dog 
and  then  studied  its  progress  with  an  X-ray  instrument.  The  metal  was  seen  to  move 
through  the  system  very  easily  until  the  dog  was  made  angry.  At  that  the  metal  ceased 
to  move.  The  dog  was  soothed  and  the  metal  moved  on  as  at  first.  This  illustrated  the 
ill  effect  of  overwrought  feelings  upon  the  process  of  digestion. 

Do  not  eat  highly  seasoned  foods.  Seasonings  are  a  stimulant  to  the  nerves  of  taste 
and  are  of  value  if  used  moderately.  They  also  stimulate  the  flow  of  digestive  fluids  and 
so  are  of  value  if  used  moderately.  The  overuse  of  seasonings  and  spices  weakens  the  nerves 
of  taste  and  the  nerves  that  control  the  flow  of  digestive  fluids  because  it  makes  them  work 
harder  than  nature  intended  them  to  work.     Do  not  eat  at  irregular  intervals.     Do  not  eat 


4 1 6        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 

a  heavy  meal  late  at  night.  Do  not  eat  rich  foods  frequently.  Do  not  use  condensed  foods 
like  cheese  too  freely.  Do  not  use  iced  drinks.  Use  tea  and  coffee  moderately  if  at  all. 
Do  not  fill  the  system  with  medicine.  Let  proper  diet  and  proper  habits  of  eating  keep 
the  body  in  good  working  order. 

2.  Organs  of  Circulation 

Perfect  circulation  carries  food  to  each  cell  of  the  body  and  carries  away  the  waste 
material  from  each  cell  of  the  body.      Perfect  circulation  depends  upon: 

a.  Exercise  in  the  open  air. 

b.  Clothing  that  does  not  restrict  the  organs  of  the  body,  whether  the  article  of  cloth- 

ing be  collar,  shoes,  belt,  corset  or  gloves. 

c.  Absence  of  stimulating  foods  in  the  diet,  whether  it  be  too  much  meat,  too  much 

tea  or  coffee,  or  too  much  of  highly  seasoned  foods. 

d.  Sufficient  rest  and  sleep. 

e.  Power  to  keep  the  nerves  under  control    and    thus,    to   relax   the   muscles   of   the 

body. 

f.  Sufficient  recreation  of  the  proper  sort.     Recreation  is  that  which  recreates,  which 

makes  as  good  as  new.  So-called  recreation  that  does  not  pass  that  test  should 
not  be  indulged  in. 

3.  Organs  of  Respiration 
The  perfect  working  of  these  organs  depend  upon: 

a.  Breathing  through  nasal  passages. 

The  cilia  in  the  nasal  passage  sift  out  the  dust  and  other  solid  matter  that  would 
act  as  an  irritant  if  not  as  a  poison  to  the  throat  and  lungs. 

b.  Habit  of  taking  long,  deep  breaths. 

This  fills  each  sac  of  the  lungs  with  pure  air  and  helps  to  remove  impure  gas  and 
solid  matter  from  the  lungs.  It  also  strengthens  the  muscles  that  control  the 
ribs  and  strengthens  the  diaphragm. 

c.  The  habit  of  holding  the  body  properly. 

The  chest  cavity  is  expanded  by  holding  the  chest  out,  the  chin  up  and  the  shoul- 
ders down  and  back. 

d.  Attention   to    good   ventilation    in   homes,  school,  church,  railway  train,  office  and 

factory. 
The  air  of  the  room  is  being  filled  with  impurities  from  the  breath  of  the  occu- 
pants.     These   impurities  are   taken  back  into  the  system  if  there  is  no  arrange- 
ment for  the  exit  of  impure  air  and  the  entrance  of  pure  air.     Good  ventilation 
is  especially  needed  in  the  sleeping  room  and  all  public  places. 

e.  Sufficient  amount  of  outdoor  exercise. 

4.     Organs  of  Excretion 

a.  Care  of  organs  of  respiration  as  discussed  in  3. 

b.  Care   of  kidneys. 

A  sufficient  amount  of  water  is  necessary  to  dissolve  the  solid  matter  that  accumu- 
lates in  the  kidneys. 

A  moderate  use  of  stimulating  foods  like  meat,  tea,  coffee,  spices  and  rich  foods. 
These  are  too  stimulating  to  the  kidneys. 

A  moderate  use  of  sugar  and  starch  is  wise.  An  overuse  is  one  of  the  causes  of 
diabetes. 

Sufficient  rest  and  relaxation;  lack  of  nerve  control  is  one  of  the  causes  of  dis- 
eased kidneys. 

c.  Care  of  the  skin. 

If  skin  fails  to  do  its  work  the  kidneys  are  overworked  and  thus  weakened. 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— THE  HUMAN  MACHINE  417 

d.  Protection  from  cold. 

Severe  chilling  of  the  body  prevents  the  skin  from  doing  its  work  and  thus  weak- 
ens the  kidneys. 

e.  Removal  of  waste  through  intestines. 

The  muscles  of  the  intestines  must  be  strengthened  by  exercise,  just  as  the  outer 
muscles  must  be  strengthened.  Foods  which  contain  bulk  help  to  strengthen 
these  muscles,  because  it  is  necessary  to  push  in  order  to  force  these  foods 
through  the  body.  Some  of  these  laxative  foods  are  lettuce,  celery,  radishes, 
onions,  green  corn,  tomatoes,  turnips,  rhubarb,  prunes,  figs,  dates,  apples.  Other 
foods  are  laxative  because  they  are  lubricants.  These  foods  are  water,  butter, 
cream,  olive  oil,  fat  meats,  molasses  and  honey. 

Exercise   stimulates   the   action   of   the  intestines. 

Massage   strengthens   the   muscles   and  stimulates  action. 

Regular  habits  of  eating,  thorough  mastication,  moderate  use  of  sweets  aids  the 
action  of  the  intestines  in  removing  wastes. 

Too  great  stress  cannot  be  laid  upon  the  importance  of  the  organs  of  excretion. 
Ample  provision  has  been  made  by  nature,  but  personal  carelessness  too  often 
causes  disease.  Wastes  that  are  not  removed  are  reabsorbed  by  the  tissues 
and  act  as  poisons.  This  condition  is  made  evident  by  tendency  to  take  cold, 
frequent  sore  throats,  headaches,  rheumatism.  These  and  other  conditions  in- 
dicate a  debilitated  condition  of  the  system. 


5.     The  Nervous  System 

The  proper  working  of  all  of  the  organs  of  the  body  depends  most  vitally  upon  the 
condition  of  the  nervous  system,  since  all  stimulus  to  activity,  whether  it  be  digestion,  cir- 
culation, respiration,  excretion,  sensation  or  thought,  comes  from  the  nervous  system.  The 
care  of  the  nervous  system  must,  in  the  first  place,  take  proper  food  into  consideration. 
Foods  that  are  too  stimulating,  like  tea,  coffee,  meat  and  highly  seasoned  foods,  should  be 
used  moderately. 

Fresh  air,  exercise  and  sufficient  protection  from  cold  help  to  keep  the  nervous  sys- 
tem, in  healthy  condition. 

The  habit  of  sleeping  seven  or  eight  hours  each  night  is  of  prime  importance. 

The  habit  of  working  earnestly  at  something  that  is  thoroughly  worth  while,  for  at 
least  9  hours  a  day,  helps  to  keep  the  nerves  in  good  condition  if  this  work  is  followed  by 
periods  of  recreation  of  some  sort. 

The  habit  of  nerve  control  is  absolutely  essential  and  more  easily  acquired  when  the 
other  points  mentioned  have  been  earnestly  regarded.  The  nerves  are  delicate  organs  and 
become  weakened  if  they  are  constantly  kept  alert.  They  must  be  allowed  to  relax  and  to 
rest  thoroughly  at  some  time  during  each  day. 

The  body  is  a  wonderful  mechanism,  and  like  every  complicated  machine,  it  must  have 
thoroughly  intelligent  and  conscientious  care  if  it  is  to  perform  satisfactory  work  and  last 
its  full  time. 


4 1 8        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


TAKE  STOCK  OF  YOUR  LOOKS 

Every  woman  can  be  good  looking — if  she  will  take  as  careful  stock  of  her 
looks  as  she  does  of  her  pantry  and  not  neglect  the  little  things. 

Begin  with  the  item  of  health.  Is  it  "all  there?"  If  not,  what  is  missing? 
Find  it  and  correct  it.  There  are  signs  or  symptoms  which  will  reveal  the  deficient 
items  in  every  case.  Without  the  health  right,  one  can  no  more  build  good  to  look 
upon  than  a  picture  can  be  wrought  by  the  most  skilled  artist  without  the  canvas 
upon  which  to  put  the  pigment. 

Is  your  breath  bad?  It  may  be  due  to  decayed  teeth,  catarrh,  a  sluggish  con- 
dition in  the  stomach  or  the  alimentary  canal.  Your  breath  may  be  bad  and  you 
not  know  it — you  would  not  catch  the  odor  yourself.  Nothing  is  more  offensive 
to  those  you  come  near  than  the  whiff  of  a  foul  breath,  but  few  friends  have  the 
courage  to  tell  you  of  this.  If  you  are  occasionally  subject  to  this,  find  the  cause, 
learn  to  recognize  it  when  it  appears — and  put  a  stop  to  its  recurrence. 

The  item  of  indigestion,  or  constipation,  is  neglected  by  far  too  many  of  us. 
It  is  the  most  fertile  cause  of  many  blemishes  to  good  looks,  as  well  as  the  most 
frequent  miscreant  of  bad  breath.  It  makes  for  headaches,  pimples,  muddy  com- 
plexion, a  general  feeling  of  dullness,  an  ugly  disposition  and  any  number  of 
other  complaints. 

The  remedy  at  times  may  be  in  laxatives;  but  permanent  correction  of  the  condition 
can  be  found  only  in  exercise,  careful  eating,  and  the  copious  drinking  of  water,  includ- 
ing hot  water  sipped  slowly  a  half  hour  before  breakfast.  The  exercise  must  'take  the 
form  of  abdominal  movements  and  massage  of  the  liver  and  bowels.  There  are  literally 
hundreds  of  good  "health  exercise"  systems  published  from  time  to  time  in  magazines  and 
countless  are  the  books  printed  on  the  subject.  The  particular  system  selected  is  of  less 
importance  than  that  you  take  up  one  good,  simple  system  of  not  too  many  or  too  difficult 
movements,  then  follow  it  regularly,  and  put  your  thought  into  seeing  that  the  movements 
are  gone  through  with  in  a  way  to  really  exercise  the  muscles  until  they  are  tired  (but  not 
exhausted)  and  that  you  do  not  in  a  few  days  get  into  the  habit  of  listlesly  performing  the 
motions  without  any  real  muscular  "pep."  The  glass  of  hot  water  is  a  most  wonderful 
tonic.  Put  some  lemon  juice  in  it — no  sugar — or  a  pinch  of  salt  if  not  the  lemon.  Take  it 
as  hot  as  you  can.  Sip  it  slowly — don't  just  drink  it  down.  Do  this  on  rising,  before 
dressing.  It  passes  immediately  through  the  stomach,  clears  the  latter  of  the  alkalis  or  other 
juices  left  there,  and  puts  it  in  fresh  clear  condition  to  start  the  day  right  when  the  break- 
fast reaches  it,  and  it  passes  on  into  the  bowels  and  puts  them  into  fit  condition  for  their 
work. 

After  the  hot  water,  take  the  exercises.     After   the   exercises   take  your  morning  bath. 

You  are  then  in  literally  clean  and  fit  condition,  inside  and  out,  to  break  your  fast,  and 
start  the  fresh  day  with  a  fresh  body. 

Take  a  glass  of  cold  water  just  before  retiring  at  night. 

Drink  at  meals,  moderately  if  you  want  to,  but  rather  between  courses;  do  not  use 
water  to  "wash  down  the  food."  No  matter  how  dry  the  latter  keep  it  in  the  mouth  until 
the  saliva  takes  care  of  it. 

Drink  copiously  between  meals — two  glasses  of  cold,  not  ice  cold — water,  an  hour  or 
two  after  each  meal.  A  copious  water  diet,  as  above,  and  a  breakfast  principally  fruit,  will 
almost  guarantee  freedom  from  constipation  and  indigestion.     Add  the  exercises  for  the  ab- 

4)9 


420        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 

dominal  muscles  and  massage  the  liver  and  bowels,  and  the  guarantee  is  absolute,  unless 
of  course  the  patient  is  chronically  wrong,  or  persistently  indulges  other  habits  or  appetites 
that  counteract  all  of  his  good  work  through  these  agencies. 

Continuous  daily  eating  of  foods  that  do  not  agree  with  him,  dissipation,  alcoholic  in- 
dulgence, and  most  especially  irregularity  in  stools — which  must  be  rigidly  regular  at  the 
same  hours  every  day — these  things,  usually  will  cancel  the  most  patient  and  faithful  atten- 
tion to  "cures." 

Coated  tongue  and  hot  dry  lips  go  with  a  bad  breath  and  announce  also  a  bad  con- 
dition along  the  alimentary  tract. 

Dry  and  yellow  skin  is  usually  due  to  the  fact  that  one  does  not  drink  enough  water. 

To  you  who  are  too  stout;  cut  down  on  your  diet — and  cut  again,  and  again — and 
don't  "make  up  for  it"  by  an  occasional  big  meal,  just  as  you  are  beginning  to  feel  starved. 
Get  out  of  doors  and  take  lots  of  exercise.  Avoid  sweets,  milk,  cream,  fat  meats  and  es- 
pecially potatoes.  Live  mainly  on  lettuce,  cabbage,  spinach,  just  a  very  little  of  lean  meats, 
young  onions,  celery,  tomatoes,  and  very  acid  or  tart  fruits  when  you  take  any.  Take 
salted  toast  instead  of  bread  and  butter.  Cease  to  give  yourself  fat  making  food  and  you 
will  cease  creating  fat  cells. 

But  you  must  really  practice  self-denial,  and  stay  actually  hungry  most  of  the  time 
for  many  weeks  until  your  entire  system  has  become  accustomed  to  the  new  regime.  It  is 
astonishing  how  you  will  get  used  to  it  and  get  over  that  constant  hunger,  if  you  interest 
yourself  in  other  things  than  food,  and  exercise  enough. 

The  Bath — On  the  whole,  the  warm  bath,  at- about  bodily  temperature — not  the  hot 
bath,  is  best  for  the  average  individual.  It  should  be  followed  by  colder  water — let  the 
cold  water  run  into  the  bath  until  there  is  a  decided  chill  to  it,  then  take  a  quick  plunge  that 
almost  makes  you  gasp  but  is  not  a  real  shock  to  the  system — then  get  out  and  rub  your- 
self vigorously  with  a  rough  towel  until  the  skin  glows. 

The  warm  bath  opens  the  pores  and  cleans  you;  the  colder  plunge  closes  the  pores 
and  prevents  your  taking  colds  easily;  the  rub  starts  the  circulation  and  tones  up  the  sys- 
tem, leaving  the  skin  in  a  glowing,  healthful  condition. 

The  very  cold  plunge  or  shower  alone,  strenuously  advocated  by  many  people,  is  not 
good  for  the  average  individual  of  sedentary  habits  of  life.  It  is  suitable  under  proper 
conditions  for  the  athlete,  or  for  those  who  lead  a  very  active  life;  under  certain  spechic 
conditions  it  fits  specific  cases  but  it  is  not  ordinarily  desirable   for  the   ordinary  man. 


BATH,  COMPLEXION,  FACE  AND  SKIN 


Bath  Bags  are  made  by  filling  a  thick  muslin  or 
thin  calico  bag  with  two  thirds  of  bran  or  oatmeal, 
and  bits  of  soap  and  orris  root,  to  give  a  sweet 
savor.  Let  this  soak  in  the  water  before  entering 
the  bath,  then  make  a  splendid  lather  all  over  the 
skin.  Use  this  only  two  or  three  times  a  week. 
Use  a  bag  only  twice;  once  it  sours  it  does  more 
harm   than   good. 

Good  Bran  Bags  can  be  purchased  from  almost 
any  druggist.  But  if  you  prefer  you  can  make 
them  yourself.  Mix  equal  parts  of  powdered  oat- 
meal and  bran  together  and  to  a  pint  add  half  a 
cup  of  powdered  soap.  To  this  add  about  an 
ounce  of  powdered  orris  root.  Fill  small  bags  and 
use  in  the  bath. 

Bath  Powder — Mix  8  avoirdupois  ounces  each  of 
powdered  borax  and  white  castile  soap.  Per- 
fume with  a  mixture  of  oil  of  lavender  flowers,  1 
fluid  drachm;  oil  of  rosemary,  I  fluid  drachm;  oil 
of  bergamot,  2  fluid  drachms;  oil  of  lemon,  4  fluid 
drachms;  oil  of  cloves,   8  drops. 

Bath  Lotion To  wipe  over  the  body  with  a  wet 

cloth  as  a  refreshing  lotion;  one-half  pint  of  pure 
cologne,  two  ounces  of  spirits  of  camphor,  two 
ounces  of  spirits  of  ammonia,  five  ounces  of  salt, 
and  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  quart.  It  can 
be  rubbed  into  the  skin  with  the  hands,  and  is  par- 
ticularly good  to  use  as  a  rub  after  a  long  walk 
or   much    exercise.      Shake   bottle   before   using. 

Care  of  the  Skin — Does  your  skin  look  wilted, 
dry  and  drawn?  Are  you  prematurely  old  look- 
ing? Do  not  blame  it  on  hardship,  but  on  your 
own  indolence.  Probably  you  seldom  wash  your 
face  clean.  Not  one  woman  in  ten  really  has  a 
clean  face.  If  you  think  your  duty  done  by  a  dab 
with  a  wet  cloth  night  and  morning,  with  possibly 
an  extra  dab  between  if  you  have  a  social  engage- 
ment,   then    is   your   face    not   clean. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  spend  money  on  getting 
a  clean  face.  Cream  lotions  and  massages  are 
desirable;   they  are  not   indispensable. 

Use  Complexion  Brush — A  good  complexion 
brush  with  stiff  bristles,  costing  from  75  cents  up, 
will  last  for  years  if  kept  sanitary. 

With  such  a  brush  and  pure  soap  and  water 
one  can  get  beneath  the  upper  layer  of  oil  into 
the  underlying  tsisues,  and  the  dead,  wilted  look 
will  disappear  with  the  increased  circulation  in- 
duced. 

Do  not  wash  with  hard  water.  If  your  water  has 
lime  in  it  or  if  filtered  with  alum  see  that  it  is 
softened  "with  a  pinch  of  borax,  soda,  or  a  drop 
or   two    of   benzoin. 

You  may  not  be  able  to  afford  skin  foods  and 
massage    creams    but    you    can    fill    small    bags    of 


cheese  cloth  with  oatmeal  or  barley  and  use  them 
once  a   day  on  the  face. 

Perhaps  costly  lotions  for  cleaning  the  skin  are 
not  for  you;  but  skim  milk  is  cheap  and  effective, 
so  also  is  a  wash  basin  filled  with  lukewarm  water 
in  which  a  potato  or  slices  of  lemon  have  been 
soaked. 

Some  complexions  will  not  ''accept"  soap  and 
■water,  others  cannot  endure  oil  cosmetics.  There 
is  as  much  difference  between  complexions  as  there 

is  between  digestion what  is  food  for  one  is  poison 

for  another.  As  a  general  rule  for  the  average 
skin,  the  soap  and  water  bath  at  night  is  of  great 
benefit.  To  retire  with  the  dust  and  grime  of  the 
day  remaining  on  one's  countenance  is  to  treat 
one's  face  to   insult. 

Simple  Beauty  Rules If  the  girl  with  the  bilious 

yellow  complexion  and  dark  circles  under  the  eyes, 
and  the  one  whose  chest  is  undeveloped  from  im- 
proper breathing  and  habitual  stooping,  and  the 
one  whose  eyes  are  dull  from  perhaps  a  half  dozen 
reasons,  -would  follow  some  simple  hygienic  rules 
in  their  own  homes  instead  of  putting  their  money 
into  things  "guaranteed  to  remove  every  blemish," 
or  bust  developers  or  patent  lotions,  eye  bright- 
eners — there  would  be  more  pretty  girls  and  fewer 
quack  beauty  parlors. 

Here  are  a  few  simple  rules  of  beauty  and  hy- 
giene: 

First A  daily  bath,  or  at  least  a  sponge  followed 

by  a  good  brisk  rubbing. 

Second Five    minutes    spent    in    deep    breathing 

exercises. 

Third — Five  minutes  exercise  or  massage  for 
the  liver. 

Fourth Eight     glasses     of     water     a     day two 

when  you  get  up,  two  during  the  morning,  two 
during  the  afternoon,  and  two  before  you  go  to 
sleep. 

Fifth Seven  or  more  hours  of  sleep   in  a  room 

with   open  windows. 

Sixth — Persistent    cheerfulness. 

Fruit   Aids   Beauty Many   fruits   are   appetizing, 

nourishing,  refreshing  and  purifying,  besides  being 
food  of  a  high  order,  therefore  are  of  value  to 
women  in   search  of  beauty. 

Apples,  grapes,  figs  and  dates  are  very  nutritious 
and  furnish  a  wholesome  way  of  eating  sugar. 
Black  grapes  and  ripe  peaches  are  fattening  and 
easily  digested  when  baked  and  eaten  with  cream; 
unless  the  digestion  is  good  they  should  not  be 
eaten  raw  in  connection  with  farinaceous  foods. 
Oranges,  lemons,  limes,  grapes  and  apples  are 
especially   good   for   the   complexion. 


421 


422        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK-^Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


Nourishing  Cold  Cream — Cold  creams  are  like 
soap;  that  which  agrees  with  one  skin  may  not  with 
another.  Only  by  experimenting  can  one  secure 
the  mixture  that  is  nourishing.  Sonne  persons  are 
strong  advocates  of  witch  hazel  cream,  and  there 
is  no  doubt  of  its  efficacy  for  those  with  whom  it 
agrees.  Besides  being  soothing,  it  has  the  virtue 
of  bleaching  the  complexion. 

Fresh  Cream — There  is  a  most  delightful  cream 
which  works  veritable  wonders  if  employed  as  soon 
as  it  is  made  and  never  after  it  has  been  mixed 
more  than  a  week  or  so. 

Bleach  for  the  purpose  four  ounces  of  sweet 
almonds  and  pound  them  until  they  are  quite 
smooth,  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  mix  with 
fresh  milk  or  cream;  boil  as  you  would  a  custard 
until  it  thickens;  then  add  the  perfume  you  prefer. 
Seal  while  hot. 

Complexion  Cream — One  of  the  best  prepara- 
tions for  the  complexion  is  an  equal  quantity  of 
tincture  of  benzoin  and  glycerine.  It  is  applied 
as  any  cold   cream. 

For  Dry  Skin — When  the  skin  becomes  dry  and 
peels  from  the  face,  the  skin  lacks  the  natural  oil. 
To  make  the  face  smooth  again,  a  good  greasy 
skin  food  should  be  used  to  supply  the  oil  that 
is  lacking  in  the  skin.  Each  night  massage  a 
good  skin  food  into  the  face  for  about  ten  minutes, 
then  leave  a  portion  of  the  cream  on  the  face  over 
night.  Don't  use  powder  or  soap  on  the  face  for  a 
few  days.  Instead  of  soap  cleanse  the  face  with 
oatmeal,  which  is  at  any  time  an  excellent  cleanser. 

To  Whiten — For  whitening  the  throat  make  a 
thick  soap  jelly  by  shaving  a  bar  of  white  soap 
into  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Allow  it  to  dissolve 
and  cool.  Lather  the  throat  with  this,  then  rinse 
in  hot  water,  and  massage  the  throat  with  a  cut 
lemon.      Lemon  is  one  of  the  best  bleachers. 

A  lotion  recommended  to  whiten  a  red  nose  is 
made  of  seven  and  a  half  grains  of  tannic  acid  and 
two  and  a  half  ounces  of  camphor  water.  After 
the  acid  is  dissolved  the  nose  is  moistened  several 
times,  day  and  night,  the  liquid  drying  on. 

Lavender  Water  is  easily  manufactured  at  home 
at  small  cost.  Take  half  a  pint  of  rectified  spirits, 
two  drams  of  essential  oil  of  lavender,  and  five 
drops  of  attar  of  rose.  Shake  well  together  till 
properly  mixed.      Keep  it  in  a  well-corked  bottle. 

An  Astringent  Wash  will  harden  the  flabby 
tissues  and  counteract  the  oily  condition  of  the 
skin.  Take  a  half  pint  bottle  and  into  it  put  one 
and  one-half  ounces  of  cucumber  juice,  half  filling 
the  bottle  with  elder  flower  water  and  adding  one 
ounce  of  eau  de  cologne.      Shake  well.      Add  one- 


half  ounce  of  simple  tincture  of  benzoin,  shake 
slightly  and  fill  with  elder  flower  water.  Night 
and  morning  apply  this  with  a   soft  sponge. 

Freckles — An  excellent  lotion  for  light  freckles 
is  made  of  the  following:  Milk  4  ounces,  lemon 
juice    1    ounce,   spirits  of  wine  2  drams. 

Blackheads — To  treat  the  skin  for  blackheads 
bathe  the  face  in  warm  water,  which  is  not  too 
hot  but  pleasantly  soothing  to  the  skin.  When  the 
skin  is  pink  and  soft  annoint  it  with  green  soap. 
Rub  it  thoroughly  into  the  pores  for  three  minutes 
and  rinse  the  face  with  warm  water,  using  a 
camels  hair  complexion  brush.  Then  use  cold 
water  until  the  face  has  become  thoroughly  cold. 
Wipe  thoroughly  with  sterilized  gauze  or  cheese 
cloth.  Fill  the  skin  with  cold  cream  dabbed  on  all 
over,  let  it  remain  for  half  an  hour  and  then  wipe 
off  with  a  soft  cloth.  Continue  the  treatment 
nightly  until  blackheads  have  disappeared. 

An  excellent  eradicator  for  blackheads  is  made 
of  one  ounce  tincture  of  green  soap  and  thirty 
drops  peroxide  of  hydrogen.  Mix  and  apply  with 
absorbant  cotton,  rubbing  thoroughly.  Let  it  re- 
main on  half  an  hour  and  then  wash  off  with  cold 
water.      Repeat  four  times  a  day. 

Starch  Face  Powder — Here  is  a  simple  "starch" 
treatment  which  will  improve  the  best  of  skins 
and  is  especially  good  for  brown  ones.  Milk-wet 
starch  has  a  decidedly  whitening  effect  on  a  brown 
skin,   and  when  dry,   makes  a  perfect  face  powder. 

Bathe  the  face  for  five  or  six  minutes  in  ice  cold 
milk,  then  before  the  liquid  has  time  to  dry,  seize 
upon  tiny  cheese  cloth  bag  half  filled  with  pow- 
dered starch  and  holding  it  over  your  up-turned 
face,  shake  it  gently,  shifting  its  position  every  few 
seconds  until  the  facial  skin  is  lost  to  view  be- 
neath a  coat  of  white  dust.  The  palm  of  the  hand 
should  now  be  passed  over  the  face,  with  a  gentle 
kneading  motion,  as  this  "evens"  the  powder  and 
masks   the   skin   imperfections. 

Eyebrows To  increase  the  growth  of  the  eye- 
brows,   rub  pure   olive   oil  in   regularly  each  night. 

Wrinkles  should  be  taken  in  hand  early — before 
they  become  visible  at  all.  Thirty  is  none  too 
young  to  begin  a  treatment  to  ward  off  wrinkles; 
by  forty  the  little  lines  may  have  established  them- 
selves beyond  repair.  All  facial  blemishes  show 
up  much  more  plainly  if  the  skin  is  not  perfectly 
clean,  healthy  and  fair;  so  a  dingy,  yellowish  face 
should  be  assiduously  guarded  against.  Soap 
should  not  be  used  on  the  complexion  more  than 
once  a  week,  when  a  thorough  scrubbing  and 
steaming  are  given.  Cold  cream  should  be  well 
rubbed  in  every  night  before  retiring  and  the  face 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— BATH,  COMPLEXION,  ETC. 


423 


bathed  afterwards  in  hot  and  then  cold  water.  This 
cold  cream  treatment  will  not  remove  wrinkles,  but 
it  will  keep  the  face  in  such  condition  that  they 
will  not  form  so  readily  and  can  be  more  easily 
eradicated. 

Wrinkles,  unless  too  deeply  seated,  in  a  woman 
past  middle  age,  will  usually  yield  to  persistent 
massage  treatment  in  conjunction  with  a  good  skin 
food. 

If  the  face  is  bathed  every  morning  in  a  cupful 
of  fresh  milk,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  table  salt 
has  been  tossed,  the  muscles  will  tighten  and  sag- 
ging  lines  will   disappear. 

Scars  on  Face — Many  people  are  bothered  with 
scars,  left  usually  by  hard  ugly  pimples.  The  face 
should  be  carefully  steamed  every  night  until  the 
skin  is   quite   clear. 

Make  a  cone  of  paper  and  fit  one  end  of  it  to 
the  face  and  the  other  to  the  outside  of  a  pitcher 
or  a  tin  pail  or  kettle.  Pour  a  quart  of  boiling 
water  into  the  pail  and  place  the  face  in  the  cone. 
Let  the  face  remain  over  the  steam  until  the  steam 
ceases  to  be  given  off,  which  will  probably  be  about 
ten   or   twelve  minutes. 

After  the  steaming  pat  the  face  dry,  rubbing  it 
gently,  and  apply  some  cold  cream.  The  face 
should  be  massaged  after  the  effects  of  the  steam- 
ing have  passed  away,  and  while  massaging  gently 
pinch  the  spots  where  the  scars  or  marks  of  the 
pimples  remain. 

Puffy  Eyes — Bathe  the  eyes  each  morning,  using 
an  eye  cup,  and  massage  gently  underneath  them. 
This  will  help  to  remedy  the  puffiness. 

You  may  have  some  internal  trouble  that  causes 
the  puffy  condition  under  the  eyes  and  makes  your 
complexion  sallow.  Water  is  a  good  complexion 
clearer.  Take  olive  oil  each  day  or  lemon  juice 
unsweetened.  The  external  trouble  cannot  be 
remedied   permanently   while   internal    causes   exist. 

Care  of  the  Lips — The  best  way  to  treat  cracks 
in  lips,  that  sometimes  make  their  appearance  in 
cold  weather,  provided  the  cracks  are  not  where 
they  will  break  open  whenever  one  laughs,  is  by 
astringents  instead  of  greases.  Many  persons  use 
cold  cream  or  camphor  ice  at  the  first  sign  of  such 
trouble,  but  they  are  not  so  quickly  efficacious  as 
spirits  of  camphor.  It  is  drastic  treatment  to  apply 
a  stinging  liquid  to  a  raw  spot  but  if  one  screws 
up  courage  enough  to  do  it  the  result  justifies  the 
hurt.  Creams  and  greases  keep  the  sore  places 
soft  and  while  they  undoubtedly  allay  the  pain  they 
do  not  aid  "In  healing.  Any  lotion  that  keeps  air 
from  the  raw  spot  relieves,  but  does  not  cure.     An 


astringent,  by  drying  the  surface,  helps  form  a  scab, 
a  natural  protection,  and  healing  goes  on  more 
rapidly. 

When  afflicted  with  a  deep  crack  like  a  cut 
in  the  middle  of  the  lower  lip,  constant  treatment 
with  spirits  of  camphor  is  very  beneficial.  If  out 
of  doors  all  morning  a  tiny  phial  of  the  spirits 
should  be  carried  so  it  can  be  used  frequently.  It 
feels  like  hot  shot  for  a  second  but  the  sting  soon 
passes  away.  The  spirits  should  be  put  on  night 
and  morning  also.  Camphor  ice  will  act  in  the 
same  way,  but  much  more  slowly.  It  is  often  nec- 
essary   if    the   wound    is    located   where   it   must   be 

induced    to     "heal    soft" that    is,    if    hardening    it 

cannot  be  done  because  it  breaks  open  whenever 
one  laughs,   or  for  other  cause. 

Tincture  of  benoin  may  be  applied  in  precisely 
the  same  way  as  the  camphor  spirits.  If  it  is 
strong  enough  to  cause  an  uncomfortable  sensation 
of  "drawing"  it  may  be  diluted  with  a  few  drops 
of  glycerine,  using  but  little  of  the  latter  for  it 
neutralizes   the   astringent. 

Another  pleasant  and  healing  application  is  made 
by  a  solution  of  one  grain  of  permanganate  of 
potash  in  a  tablespoonful  of  clean  rose-water. 
While  this  is  wet  on  the  surface,  French  chalk 
should  be  dusted  on. 

Cleanse  Crack — It  is  always  well  to  wash  any 
sore  spot  with  a  weak  solution  of  boracic  acid 
before  applying  the  astringent.  The  object  of  the 
acid   is   thoroughly   to    cleanse   the   sore. 

Red  Blood — There  is  little  doubt  but  that  con- 
tinued cracking  of  the  lip  indicates  a  thin  condition 
of  the  blood  and  a  physical  state  below  par.  Tonics 
containing  phosphates  are  usually  prescribed  and 
iron  may  be  taken.  This  of  course  is  a  matter  for 
physicians  to  decide  and  one  should  certainly  be 
consulted  when  the  lips  cannot  be  healed. 

Little  sore  spots  that  sometimes  stay  so  long 
in  the  corner  of  the  mouth  may  come  from  the 
stomach;  frequent  applications  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda   will   sometimes    cure   them. 

Superfluous  Hairs — To  treat,  take  enough  pure 
peroxide  of  hydrogen  to  "wet  the  hair  and  add  a 
few  drops  of  ammonia,  ■which  will  bleach  the  hair 
and   make   it  less   conspicuous. 

Another  Method,  to  bleach  hair  on  arm:  dampen 
baking  soda  with  cold  water  and  rub  over  the 
arms;  leave  it  on  several  hours,  then  bathe  the 
arm.  Repeat  daily  until  the  hair  is  the  shade  you 
desire. 

Peroxide  and  ammonia  will  bleach  superfluous 
hair  and  will  not  destroy  the  growth. 


424        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 

CARE  OF  THE  SKIN 

(Iowa  State   College   Bulletin) 

Care  of  the  Skin — "The  care  of  the  skin  takes  on  special  significance  when 
it  is  known  that  from  one  to  two  and  a  half  pints  of  waste  matter  pass  through  the 
skin  every  twenty-four  hours.  An  exposure  to  cold  or  lack  of  sufficient  protection 
prevents  this  process,  throws  the  strain  upon  the  kidneys  and  is  liable  to  derange 
the  excretory  organs." 

The  skin  is  a  very  important  organ  of  excretion  and  must  be  kept  in  perfect 
working  order. 

Baths — The  cleansing  bath  ranges  in  temperature  from  90  to  95°  F.  This  is  so  near 
the  normal  temperature  of  the  body  that  no  shock  is  felt,  especially  if  the  bath  is  taken  in 
a  warm  room.  The  soap  should  not  contain  an  excess  of  alkali.  The  strong  soaps  take 
oil  from  the  skin  and  leave  it  dry  and  rough.  All  soap  should  be  rinsed  from  the  skin  by 
the  free  use  of  clear  water.  The  toweling  should  be  brisk  and  thorough.  The  thorough 
rubbing  after  the  bath  increases  circulation,  and  by  so  doing  helps  to  keep  the  skin  well 
fed  and  firm.  The  cleansing  bath  is  the  best  taken  at  night,  since  it  is  not  only  cleansing 
but  relaxing.  The  fact  that  much  impurity  is  deposited  upon  the  skin  through  the  perspi- 
ration glands  makes  the  daily  cleansing  bath  necessary  for  comfort,  self-respect  and  good 
health.  If  the  deposit  is  not  removed  the  excretion  is  retarded,  because  the  pores  of  the 
skin   are   closed   by  the  deposit  upon  the  surface  of  the  skin. 

The  tonic  bath  is  best  taken  in  the  morning.  Tt  should  be  cold  enough  to  cause  the 
contraction  of  the  blood  vessels  at  the  surface  of  the  body.  This  contraction  sends  an  addi- 
tional amount  of  blood  to  the  heart.  The  additional  blood  stimulates  increased  heart  action 
and  sends  the  blood  bounding  back  to  the  surface  of  the  body  again.  This  reaction  leaves 
the  skin  warm  and  the  circulation  active.  A  cold  bath  should  never  be  taken  in  a  cold 
room.  It  should  not  be  taken  when  one  is  greatly  fatigued  and  it  should  not  continue  more 
than  a  minute.  The  cold  bath  should  be  followed  by  a  brisk  rubbing.  While  the  cold 
bath  is  most  beneficial  for  the  normal  person,  it  should  not  be  persisted  in  unless  it  leaves 
the  person  warm  and  vigorous. 

The  curative  baths  are  Turkish,  alcoholic,  electric,  salt,  milk  and  hot  water.  The  Tur- 
kish bath  opens  the  pores  of  the  skin  and  gives  the  skin  a  thorough  cleansing.  It  then 
closes  the  pores  by  a  cold  bath,  and  relaxes  the  muscles  by  a  thorough  rubbing. 

A  plain  hot  water  bath  opens  the  pores  of  the  skin  and  draws  the  blood  away  from  the 
inner  parts  of  the  body.  It  is  too  stimulating  to  the  nervous  system  to  be  taken  frequently. 
Its  chief  purpose  is   to  relieve  inflammation  in  the  deeper  parts  of  the  body. 

Prevention  of  Colds — Careful  care  of  the  skin  as  has  been  indicated,  helps  to  remove 
wastes  and  helps  to  maintain  the  normal  condition,  and  for  these  reasons  becomes  a  vital 
factor  in  the  prevention  of  colds.  The  fact  that  a  person  is  easily  susceptible  to  colds  in- 
dicates that  the  body  is  not  in  good  working  order.  Prevent  colds  by  proper  diet,  good  ven- 
tilation, moderate  amount  of  heat  in  living  room,  an  ample  amount  of  outdoor  exercise 
and  a  sufficient  amount  of  sleep  and  rest. 

The  Hands — It  is  not  necessary  for  the  hands  to  be  rough  and  red,  even  though  they 
perform  much  work.  A  good,  mild  soap  (like  plain  castile)  and  some  simple  lotion  (like 
glycerine  and  carbolic  acid)  will  keep  the  hands  soft  and  sufficiently  moist,  if  used  faith- 
fully. 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— CARE  OF  THE  SKIN  425 

The  Face — Do  not  let  the  face  carry  all  the  worries  that  have  been  experienced  in  a 
lifetime  and  do  not  allow  it  to  become  rough  and  dry.  Keep  the  muscles  relaxed  by  mas- 
sage. To  keep  the  skin  moist  and  pliable,  use  a  mild  soap,  and  very  little  of  it.  Follow 
the  washing  by  a  rinsing  in  cold  water. 

Skin  Blemishes — Do  not  depend  upon  outward  applications  to  remove  blemishes  of  the 
skin.  They  are  the  result  of  some  failure  to  care  for  the  body  properly.  Prevent  them  by 
proper  diet,  exercise,  ample  amount  of  fresh  air,  ample  amount  of  sleep,  proper  clothing. 
The  care  of  the  body  determines  its  condition.  Care  for  the  body  and  there  will  be  no  blem- 
ishes of  the  skin.  Be  careful  to  use  your  own  soap  and  your  own  towel.  Diseases  of  the 
skin  are  often  contracted  by  using  the   public  towel  and  the  public  soap. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


426        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


ft 


THE  HAIR  AND  SCALP 

A  few  general  rules  for  the  care  of  the  hair: 

Avoid  strong  soap  and  alkalis,  such  as  soda  and  ammonia,  hair  tonics  of 
which  you  are  not  sure,  and  too  much  hot  water.  These  all  dry  up  natural  oil  and 
make  the  hair  harsh  and  given  to  falling. 

Depend  on  regular  brushing  of  hair  rather  than  on  tonics.  Ten  minutes  of 
stiff  brushing  twice  a  day  will  do  wonders  for  preventing  the  hair  thinning. 

The  hair  is  improved  by  heating  the  brush  before  using.  Frequently  hold  the  brush 
to  the  fire,  then  brush  the  scalp.  Hair,  highly  charged  with  electricity,  is  snappy  and  will 
fly  about  in  the  most  unruly  manner,  but  it  can   be   evenly  brushed  with   the   heated   brush. 

Keep  the  hair  absolutely  clean.  This  may  be  assisted  by  a  dry  shampoo  if  a  wet  one 
cannot  be  given  frequently.  For  a  dry  shampoo,  powder  the  hair  and  scalp  well  and  brush 
until  every  particle  of  powder  is  gone. 

Hair  should  always  be  thoroughly  dried,  as  the  mingling  of  water  with  natural  oil 
causes  fermentation,  which  means  dandruff  and  falling  locks.  Give  the  hair  plenty  of  light 
and  air,  but  do  not  expose  it  to  the  hot  rays  of  the  sun  for  long  at  a  time.  It  bleaches  the 
hair  and  often  blisters  the  scalp,   drying  up   the  natural  oil. 

So  long  as  the  scalp  moves  freely  over  the  skull  there  is  hope  for  the  bald  head. 

Be  particular  not  to  use  the  brushes  and  combs  of  another,  and  do  not  use  your  own 
in  an  unsanitary  condition.  One  cause  of  the  baldness  of  men  is  their  carelessness  in  this 
respect. 

Do  not  burn  your  hair,  twist  it  into  tortuous  knots,  strain  it  back  from  the  temples  or 
wear  it  always  in   the   same   coil. 

After  washing  the  head  thoroughly  withsoft  water  and  soap  put  a  teaspoonful  or  more 
of  lemon  juice  in  the  last  rinsing  water.     This  will  make  the  hair  soft  and  fluffy. 


CARE    OF   THE   HAIR 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin) 


The  Hair — The  hair  is  provided  with  oil  by  the  sebaceous  glands  that  lie  at  its 
roots.  Regular  and  vigorous  brushing  of  the  hair  increases  the  flow  of  oil  and  keeps 
the  hair  glossy.  The  hair  is  fed  by  the  blood  vessels  that  enter  the  inner  layer  of 
the  skin,  in  which  the  hair  root  is  imbedded.  A  good  nervous  system,  which  pro- 
motes good  circulation,  is  one  of  the  essentials  in  producing  a  healthy  growth  of 
hair. 

It  is  as  necessary  for  the  scalp  to  be  kept  clean  as  for  the  surface  of  any  other  portion 
of  the  skin  to  be  kept  clean.  The  hair  should  be  thoroughly  brushed  to  remove  dust.  It 
should  be  left  loose  and  free  at  night  to  allow  the  moisture  to  evaporate  and  to  permit  air  to 
pass  through  it  freely.  The  scalp  should  be  thoroughly  rubbed  at  least  once  a  week.  This 
promotes  a  good  circulation  and  thus  gives  the  hair  a  vigorous  growth. 


427 


428        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


HAIR  AND  SCALP  MISCELLANIES 

Washing  the  Hair — The  hair  should  be  washed  at  least  once  a  month.  Soft  water, 
mild  soap  and  thorough  rinsing  in  clear  water  are  essential  to  a  successful  washing. 

Dry  Cleaning — Part  the  hair  and  rub  coarse  corn  meal  on  the  scalp.  Use  at  least 
two  cups  of  corn  meal.  After  the  meal  has  been  thoroughly  rubbed  over  the  entire  sur- 
face of  the  scalp,  brush  thoroughly  until  all  traces  of  the  meal  have  been  removed.  Drv 
cleaning  removes  dust  and  stimulates  the  hair,  because  of  the  thorough  rubbing.  It  also  re- 
moves the  superfluous  oil.  Too  frequent  washing  removes  too  much  oil  and  leaves  the  hair 
too  dry  and  brittle.      For  this  reason  it  is  well  to  use  the  dry  cleaning  occasionally. 


Hair  Too  Oily — It  is  an  interesting  fact  that  the 
majority  of  scalp  troubles  begin  with  an  appear- 
ance of  oiliness.  This  condition  often  develops 
when  a  girl  is  "run  down."  Build  up  by  sleep, 
fresh  air  and  nutritious  diet. 

An  excellent  preparation  for  application  to  an 
oily  scalp  is  composed  of  the  following:  Precip- 
itated sulphur,  I  drachm;  salicylic  acid,  15  grains; 
glycerine  of  starch,  1  drachm;  alcohol,  6  drachms; 
water  up  to  4  ounces.  This  may  be  scented  if 
desired. 

To  Brighten  the  Hair — To  brigthen  dead  looking 
hair  use  diluted  peroxide  of  hydrogen,  which  is 
applied  in  the  following  manner;  first  wash  the 
hair  thoroughly,  using  ammonia  to  cut  all  grease. 
Dry  the  hair,  preferably  in  the  sun.  Half  fill  a 
saucer  with  hydrogen  peroxide,  add  one-half  as 
much  water,  dip  into  it  a  clean  hair  brush  and 
apply  the  mixture  thoroughly  to  the  hair.  This 
will  not  be  sufficient  to  make  any  noticeable  change 
in  the   color.  ^ 

Brush  the  hair  with  the  damp  brush  and  stand 
in  the  sunshine,  if  possible,  until  the  hair  is  thor- 
oughly dry.  Do  not  repeat  the  process  for  two 
months  at  the  earliest  unless  you  want  to  make 
the  hair  much  lighter.  This  in  no  way  injures 
ashly  looking  hair,  but  it  really  improves  its  ap- 
pearance. However,  it  must  never  be  lavishly 
used. 

To  Make  Glossy — A  very  good  preparation  to 
make  the  hair  glossy  is  composed  of  two  drachms 
of  castor  oil  and  six  ounces  of  cologne  water.  A 
few  drops  of  this  dressing  or  brillantine  are  poured 
into  the  palm  of  the  hand.  A  soft,  spotlessly 
clean  hair  brush  is  gently  rotated  on  the  palm  so 
that  the  dressing  may  be  evenly  distributed  on  the 
bristles.  Now  apply  it  to  the  hair,  which  should 
have  received  a  previous  brushing  with  stiffer 
bristles.  The  brillantine  is  gently  spread  over  the 
hair  and  a  soft  silk  handkerchief  is  used  to  give 
the  final  polish. 

Medicine  Dropper  for  Hair — When  using  hair 
tonic  or  hair-dressing  the  most  economical  and  sat- 
isfactory way  is  to  use  a  bent  glass  medicine 
dropper.      This  permits   the   exact   quantity  wanted 


to  be  deposited   where  needed  at  the   roots  of  the 
hair. 

A  Home-Made  Hair  Tonic  that  is  really  wonder- 
ful in  its  results,  is  absolutely  harmless,  and  actually 
retards  falling  hair  and  tones  the  scalp  in  every 
way,   is  made  as  follows: 

Take  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sulphur  and  mix  with 
about  five  cents  worth  of  glycerine.  Pour  over  a 
package  of  sage  about  a  quart  of  boiling  water; 
let  steep  on  back  of  stove  about  two  hours;  when 
cool  strain  into  bottle  and  add  sulphur  and  glycer- 
ine. Then  add  small  quantity  of  alcohol,  just 
enough  to  keep  the  tonic  from  souring — about 
2  tablespoonfuls.  The  sulphur  may  not  all  be  dis- 
solved; that  does  not  matter — simply  shake  well 
each  time  before  using.  It  is  the  sulphur  in  the 
tonic  that  stops  and  cuts  dandruff,  and  dandruff 
causes  the  hair  to  fall  out.  Rub  the  scalp  with  the 
finger  ends  until  it  feels  hot,  then  rub  the  tonic 
into  the  scalp. 

Restores  Graying  Hairs — Moisten  a  sponge  or 
soft  brush  with  the  above  tonic  and  draw  this 
through  the  hair,  taking  one  strand  at  a  time.  The 
graying  hairs  in  the  head  will  begin  to  disappear 
after  two  or  three  applications,  the  natural  color 
is  restored  and  it  becomes  thick,  glossy  and 
lustrous. 

Ten  minutes  spent  every  evening  will  give  you 
almost  a  new  head  of  hair  in  two  months,  put  new 
life  into  the  hair  roots,  restore  the  gray  hairs  and 
stop  additional  hairs  graying.  The  hair  will  grow 
several  inches  under  the  treatment.  The  scalp 
must  be  regularly  massaged  with  the  fingers  each 
time   before    and    after    the   application    is   made. 

Gray  Hair — Stop  the  Causes — They  are  many: 
poor  health,  shock,  extracting  too  much  of  the 
natural  oil  of  the  scalp  by  too  frequent  shampoo- 
ing, etc.  If  the  hair  is  dry,  rub  yellow  vaseline  on 
the  scajp  every  other  day,  then  brush  it  thoroughly. 

It  is  difficult  to  entirely  restore  color  to  hair  that 
has  turned  gray.  The  application  of  oil  will  some- 
times do  it,  and  very  occasionally  an  extremely 
stimulating  tonic  is  beneficial.  Try  one  made  of 
one  ounce  of  castor  oil,  an  ounce  of  strong  am- 
monia in  liquid,  two  ounces  of  French  brandy,  and 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— HAIR  AND  SCALP 


429 


six  ounces   of  rose  water.      This   may  be  massaged 
into   the   scalp   every   other   day,    not   oftener. 

For  Dandruff  Only — Warm  borax  water  will  re- 
move dandruff;  it  has  no  general  tonic  effect,  how- 
ever, for  hair  and  scalp  otherwise. 

Though  dandruff  is  not  originally  a  disease,  it 
may  easily  become  the  predisposing  cause  for 
many  disorders  of  the  scalp,  just  as  neglect  to 
keep  the  body  clean  brings  on  its  train  of  con- 
sequential  evils. 

The  permanent  benefit — It  is  necessary  when 
troubled  with  dandruff  to  massage  the  scalp  thor- 
oughly, after  which  you  will  find  the  following 
treatment  very  beneficial:  moisten  the  scales  of 
dandruff  with  olive  oil;  when  crusts  are  soft,  wash 
scalp  with  tincture  of  green  soap.  Rinse  thor- 
oughly and  apply  almond  oil  to  the  scalp.  Rub  in 
with  your  finger  tips,  then  use  the  following 
shampoo:  Ammonia  muriate,  ten  grains;  glycerine, 
one  ounce;  rose  water,  five  ounces.  Rub  this 
briskly  into  the  scalp.  At  the  end  of  ten  days  use 
the  following  shampoo: 

Soap  Jelly  Shampoo— Shave  a  small  cake  of  best 
white  castile  soap  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and 
let  stand  until  thick,  then  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
glycerine  and  a  few  drops  of  your  favorite  per- 
fume. The  glycerine  is  softening  and  healing  to 
the   scalp. 

The  hair  must  be  wet  enough  so  that  the  "jelly" 
will  adhere;  then  by  rubbing  until  a  thick  lather 
forms  the  whole  head  and  scalp  will  be  thoroughly 
cleansed  before  using  the  abundance  of  warm 
water  always  necessary  for  rinsing.  After  a  care- 
ful rinsing  continue  with  waters  gradually  cooled 
until    quite    cold. 

For  Dry  Hair — If  the  hair  is  dry  and  brittle 
and  you  have  abused  it  in  any  manner,  such  as 
getting  it  wet  with  salt  water  and  then  drying  in 
the  sun,  you  must  take  immediate  steps  to  keep  it 
from  falling  out.  The  hair  should  be  shampooed 
with  an  egg  mixture.  No  ammonia,  borax,  or  any 
sort  of  alkali  must  be  used  on  hair  that  has  been 
thus   abused. 

Split-end  Hair — If  your  hair  shows  split-ends  and 
a  tendency  to  fall  out,  have  the  split  ends  clipped 
off,  and  if  the  hair  is  long  enough  to  permit  it,  have 
at  least  two  inches  of  it  cut  off.  Then  every  night 
brush  the  hair  thoroughly  with  a  stiff   (not  a  wire) 


brush  and  after  the  brushing  have  a  tonic  massaged 
into  the  scalp. 

Egg  Shampoo — Yolk  of  one  egg,  one  pint  of 
rainwater  (lukewarm),  an  ounce  of  rosemary 
spirits.  Beat  the  mixture  up  thoroughly  and  use 
it  warm,  rubbing  well  into  the  skin  of  the  head. 
Rinse  in  several  waters.  The  scalp  should  be  mas- 
saged every  night,  moistening  the  finger  tips  with 
olive  oil,   and  the  following  lotion  may  be  applied: 

Lotion — Glycerine,  1  ounce;  eau  de  cologne, 
Yl  pint,  liquid  ammonia,  1  drachm;  oil  of  geranium, 
oil  of  rosemary,  Yl  drachm  of  each;  tincture  of 
cantharides,  1  ounce.  Briskly  agitate  for  ten  min- 
utes and  then  add  camphor  julep  Yl  pint  and 
again  mix  well  and  stir.  A  few  drops  of  essence 
of  musk  or  other  perfume   can  be  added. 

Shampoo  for  Golden  Hair — Golden  hair  requires 
the  most  careful  brushing  and  cleaning-  An  in- 
fusion of  camomile  flowers  is  a  good  shampoo  for 
light  hair.  An  effective  dry  shampoo  for  such  hair 
is  made  of  alcoholic  ammonia,  half  an  ounce;  the 
same  tincture  of  quinine,  two  drachms  of  essence  of 
wood  violet,  and  alcohol  sufficient  to  make  eight 
ounces.  The  shampoo  should  be  applied  by  rub- 
bing it  well  into  the  scalp  and  drying  the  head  with 
a   rough  towel      No  water  is   required. 

Massage  your  Scalp  but  do  not  rub  the  hair. 
Separate  the  hair  and  rub  vaseline  on  the  scalp 
Gently,  then  place  the  tips  of  the  fingers  firmly  on 
the  scalp  and  work  all  over  the  scalp  with  a  rotary 
motion  and  move  the  scalp  with  each  rotation  of 
the  fingers;  loosening  the  scalp  with  each  rotation 
does  much   good. 

Eyebrows  and  Lashes — Use  as  a  tonic  for  the 
eyebrows  one  ounce  of  yellow  vaseline  and  eight 
drops  each  of  oil  of  lavender  and  rosemary.  Place 
a  drop  of  the  tonic  on  an  eyebrow  brush  and 
smooth  eyebrow  carefully  after  the  face  has  been 
washed. 

Do  not  use  this  preparation  on  the  lashes.  Ap- 
ply only  yellow  vaseline  to  them,  using  a  small 
camels  hair  brush  and  rubbing  gently  along  the 
roots. 

Do  not  Cut  Eyelashes — Try  melting  yellow  vas- 
eline and  putting  it  on  the  roots  of  the  lashes  with 
a  tiny  camels  hair  brush,  being  careful  not  to 
get  any  of  the  oil  in  the  eyes.  This  is  excellent 
to   promote   growth   of  scanty   lashes. 


430         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CARE  OF  THE  TEETH 

A  famous  old  Frenchman  was  once  heard  to  say  that  a  woman  with  really 
good  teeth  could  never  be  plain.  Although  this  may  be  rather  a  sweeping  state- 
ment there  is  no  doubt  that  an  otherwise  plain  appearance  is  often  redeemed  by 
a  perfect  set  of  teeth  and  the  effect  of  many  a  pretty  face  marred  by  bad  teeth. 

CARE  OF  TEETH 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin) 

The  tooth  consists  of  root  and  crown.  There  is  a  small  opening  at  the  end 
of  each  root  through  which  the  nerves  and  blood  vessels  pass.  This  opening  leads 
to  the  pulp  cavity  which  extends  through  the  entire  inner  part  of  the  crown  and 
root.  The  greater  part  of  the  crown  consists  of  dentine,  which  is  covered  by  a  layer 
of  hard  enamel  as  a  protective  layer.  The  dentine  of  the  root  is  covered  with  a 
layer  of  cement. 

Effect  of  Acid  on  Teeth 

The  chief  element  in  the  composition  of  the  teeth  is  lime,  and  lime  is  easily  decom- 
posed by  acid. 

Experiment — Drop  a  few  drops  of  hydrochloric  acid  upon  a  piece  of  lime  and  notice 
what  happens.  The  gas  bubbles  that  are  seen  show  that  the  lime  is  being  decomposed  by 
the  acid. 

This  experiment  shows  the  effect  of  acids  upon  the  lime  in  the  teeth. 

Source  of  Acid — The  bacteria  cause  the  fermentation  of  the  lodged  particles  of  food. 
The  acid  formed  eats  into  the  lime  in  the  tooth  and  may  continue  to  eat  until  the  nerve 
is  exposed,  if  the  tooth  is  not  cared  for. 

Effects  of  Tartar — Tartar  is  composed  of  lime  which  is  deposited  from  the  saliva.  Tar- 
tar forms  on  the  inner  side  of  the  lower  front  teeth  and  at  the  base  of  the  crown  of  the 
teeth.  It  forms  a  hard  crust  which  prevents  the  removal  of  acid  and  bacteria  by  means 
of  the  brush.     The  tartar  should  be  thoroughly  removed  by  a  dentist  at  least  once  a  year. 

Removal  of  Acid — Brushing  with  a  solution  of  baking  soda  neutralizes  the  acid.  Brush- 
ing with  clear  water,   after  this,   removes  all  acid  from  the  mouth. 

Removal  of  Food  Particles — A  thorough  brushing  after  each  meal,  before  breakfast 
and  after  supper  is  the  ideal  method  of  caring  for  the  teeth.  A  thorough  brushing  means 
a  brushing  of  at  least  five  minutes.  The  brush  should  come  in  contact  with  all  parts  of  the 
teeth,  upper  and  lower,  front  and  back,  inner  and  outer  surface.  A  good  powder  should 
be  used  several  times  a  week,  but  all  traces  of  powder  should  be  removed  by  brushing  with 
clear  water.  If  the  brushing  is  followed  by  a  thorough  mouth  rinse  of  listerine  solution  it  is 
much  better. 

Care  of  Child's  Teeth — Each  child  should  have  his  tooth  brush  and  be  taught  to  use 
it  as  soon  as  he  is  two  or  three  years  old.  It  is  very  desirable  that  he  acquire  the  habit 
of  caring  for  his  teeth.  In  this  way  tooth  brushing  becomes  as  much  a  part  of  the  day's 
routine  as  eating  and  sleeping. 

Dentist's  Care — The  dentist,  like  the  doctor,  should  be  given  a  chance  to  prevent  trou- 
ble rather  than  to  correct  it.  Let  the  dentist  do  his  work  at  the  first  warning.  Remember 
that  mastication  is  an  important  step  in  digestion.     Save  the  teeth. 

431 


432        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 

A  Few  Don'ts — Do  not  bite  thread  with  the  teeth.  It  may  break  the  enamel  after  a 
time.  Do  not  crack  nuts  with  the  teeth.  Nature  did  not  plan  them  to  be  used  as  cast  iron 
hammers.  They  are  not  strong  enough  for  that.  Avoid  drinking  extremely  hot  drinks 
or  extremely  cold  drinks.  Either  practice  may  weaken  the  enamel  of  the  teeth.  Do  not 
forget  that  a  gum-boil  may  mean  an  abcessed  tooth  and  that  the  dentist  should  be  con- 
sulted. 

Tooth  Building  Food — Since  the  chief  element  in  the  composition  of  the  teeth  is  lime, 
such  foods  must  be  included  in  the  diet,  as  contain  lime.  Some  of  these  foods  are  spinach, 
lettuce,  celery,  tomatoes,  cabbage,  parsnips,  mushrooms,  turnips,  corn,  beets,  asparagus, 
cauliflower,  carrots,  string  beans,  potatoes,  radishes  and  onions.  These  are  the  chief  lime- 
producing   foods  and   help   to  build   up   the  teeth. 

The  teeth  are  so  absolutely  necessary  to  good  digestion  that  too  much  care  cannot 
be  taken  to  preserve  them.  If  the  child's  teeth  decay  prematurely  it  is  not  an  accident  and 
may  not  be  altogether  the  result  of  a  failure  to  keep  them  clean.  It  is  very  frequently  the 
result  of  a  poorly  nourishd  body  and  it  is  quite  as  necessary  to  study  the  feeding  and  gen- 
eral care  of  the  body  as  to  study  the  care  of  the  teeth. 

MISCELLANIES  ON  TEETH 

Night  Cleansing — Perfectly  formed,  even  white  teeth  are  a  natural  gift,  but  much  can 
be  done  to  improve  the  color  and  keep  them  in  good  condition,  chief  among  these  little 
attentions  being  careful  brushing  night  and  morning.  Now,  while  everyone  cleans  his  or 
her  teeth  in  the  morning,  very  many,  unfortunately  for  their  teeth,  neglect  to  do  so  at 
night,  and  this  is  a  very  grave  mistake.  During  the  night  particles  of  food  which  have 
lodged  between  the  teeth  do  incalculable  damage.  If  but  two  or  three  minutes  is  given  to 
brushing  them  at  night  much  decay  is  arrested. 

Tartar — The  presence  of  tartar  upon  the  teeth  is  a  source  of  worry  to  many,  as  it  is 
not  only  unsightly  but  causes  the  teeth  to  ache  and  makes  tender  gums.  Tartar  can  be 
removed  quite  easily.  Procure  a  small  quantity  of  magnesia,  wet  the  tooth  brush  in  warm 
water,  dip  into  the  magnesia,  and  rub  the  teeth  upon  which  the  tartar  has  collected.  If  one 
application  does  not  entirely  remove  it,   give  a  second  treatment  the  next  day. 

The  Best  Mouth  Wash — Used  by  the  Medical  Corps  in  the  Army:  Five  drops  of  lysol 
in  a  glass  of  warm  water.  Lysol  is  a  soapy  carbolic  preparation.  The  lysol  wash  is  a  most 
efficient  disinfectant  for  germs  located  in  the  mouth  as  well  as  a  deodorizer;  the  alkali  in 
the  soap  neutralizes  the  mouth  acids. 

The  brush  for  cleaning  the  teeth  should  be  fairly  stiff,  but  not  hard  enough  to  injure  the 
gums. 

Children's  Teeth — At  the  first  sign  of  decay  a  dentist  should  be  consulted  and  a  cav- 
ity filled.  Neglect  to  do  this  results  in  the  loss  of  the  teeth  eventually,  and  although  the 
modern  art  of  dentistry  is  now  so  perfect  that  false  teeth  or  crowns  can  be  procured  to  look 
exactly  like  one's  own  they  can  never  be  quite  the  same,  and  children  especially  are  enti- 
tled to  early  care  and  sound,  natural  teeth. 

Once  mature  years  have  been  reached  nothing  can  be  done  for  the  shape  of  the  teeth 
or  toward  regulating  their  position,  but  those  who  have  care  of  children  should  see  that 
these  matters  are  promptly  attended  to  by  the  dentist,  for  much  of  the  pain  and  discom- 
fort which  so  many  people  experience  with  their  teeth  through  life  can  be  prevented  by  a 
little  attention  in  childhood. 

Four  Essentials — For  the  care  and  preservation  of  the  teeth :  Proper  diet,  proper  tooth 
brush,  proper  tooth  powders  or  pastes  and  proper  mouth  bath. 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— CARE  OF  THE  TEETH  433 

Dental  Floss — The  passing  of  dental  floss  back  and  forth  between  the  teeth  at  least 
once  a  day  is  desirable.  Care  should  be  observed,  however,  not  to  injure  the  gums  by  mak- 
ing them  bleed. 

Use  Magnesia — A  mouthful  of  magnesia  taken  into  the  mouth  every  night,  allowing  it 
to  penetrate  every  nook  and  cranny,  will  correct  tendency  to  acidity  and  prevent  the  decay 
which  comes  from  chemical  decomposition  of  particles  of  food.  A  good  milk  of  magnesia 
is  even  better  for  this  purpose. 

Sore  Gums — If  the  gums  are  sore  and  festered,  if  caries  have  formed  around  or  be- 
tween the  teeth,  do  not  fail  to  consult  a  reliable  dentist  without  delay.  Such  a  condition 
of  the  mouth  and  gums  may  poison  the  blood  and  seriously  impair  the  general  health. 

Digestion — A  healthy  digestion  is  important  in  keeping  the  mouth  sweet  and  clean; 
saliva  free  from  elements  that  tend  to  cause  decay  of  the  teeth  is  essential  to  a  wholesome 
condition   of   the   alimentary   canal. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


434        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CARE  OF  THE  EYES,  EARS  AND  NOSE 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin) 

The  Eyes — Keep  the  body  in  good  health.  The  general  health  has  a  direct  in- 
fluence upon  the  vigor  and  the  activity  of  the  eye. 

Do  not  hold  the  eye  to  close  work  for  too  great  a  length  of  time.  This  is  too  taxing 
for  the  muscles  of  accommodation.  If  it  is  necessary  to  do  the  close  work,  rest  the  eye  fre- 
quently by  looking  at  some  distant  objects.  This  gives  an  opportunity  for  the  muscles  of 
accommodation  to  relax. 

Do  not  hold  the  printed  page  too  far  from  or  too  close  to  the  eye.  Eighteen  inches 
is  about  the  proper  distance.  Fine  print  is  too  taxing  to  the  eye.  A  glossy  paper  is  more 
taxing  upon   the   eye    than   paper  with   a   dull  finish. 

Soft,  restful  colors  are  less  taxing  to  the  eyes  than  the  bright,  glaring  colors.  Soft 
tan,  dull  green  and  soft  gray  are  restful  colors  and  are  good  colors  to  choose  for  wall 
coverings,  especially  for  school  room  walls.  A  highly  finished  white  wall  is  irritating  to  the 
eye.      Red  is  an  irritating  color  and  should  not  be  used  for  wall  colorings. 

Reading  while  a  train  is  in  motion  is  taxing  to  the  eyes,  because  the  muscles  of  ac- 
commodation are  required  to  work  too  hard,  n  adjusting  the  lenses  of  the  eye  to  suit  the 
motion  of  the  printed  page  before  the  eye. 

A  poor  light  is  not  true  economy.  The  poor  light  is  a  direct  means  of  injuring  the 
sight,  and  expert  care  of  the  sight  is  more  expensive  than  adequate  lighting  facilities.  It 
is  possible  to  have  good  lights  in  the  farm  home,  now  that  gasoline  lamps,  denatured  al- 
cohol lamps  and  the  home  gas  plant  have  been  perfected  to  such  a  degree.  The  light  from 
sun  or  artificial  source  should  not  shine  directly  into  the  eyes.  School  room  seats  should 
be  so  arranged  as  to  prevent  this.  The  bed  of  the  invalid  should  be  arranged  with  this 
thought  in  view.  Infants  who  are  out  for  an  airing  should  have  eyes  protected  from  the 
sunlight. 

Veils  with  large  spots  are  injurious  to  the  eyes  and  should  not  be  worn.  Bright  red 
veils  should  not  be  worn. 

Expert  care  of  the  eye  is  needed  when  it  becomes  necessary  to  hold  the  printed  page 
other  than  at  normal  distance  from  the  eye,  when  severe  headaches  seem  to  indicate  that  the 
eyes  are  not  normal  and  when  the  school  child  is  unable  to  read  blackboard  work  readily. 

Imperfect  organs  of  sight  not  only  prevent  the  full  enjoyment  of  surroundings,  but  im- 
pair the  general  health. 

Care  of  Ears — A  study  of  the  structure  of  the  ear  will  suggest  the  danger  of  using  sharp 
instruments  of  any  kind  in  removing  substances  from  the  ear.  The  tympanum  or  sounding 
board  of  the  ear  is  a  delicate  and  tightly  stretched  membrane  which  is  easily  punctured. 
A  study  of  the  location  of  the  eustachian  tube  will  show  the  close  relation  between  the  ear 
and  throat,  and  demonstrate  the  fact  that  the  hearing  may  be  impaired  by  a  diseased  throat. 
Avoid  colds  by  taking  care  of  the  body.  Keep  the  throat  in  good  condition  and  you  will 
also  help  to  keep  the  ears  in  normal  condition. 

Avoid  taking  young  children  where  the  ears  will  be  shocked  by  loud  and  discordant 
noises.      Loud   noises  are  stimulating  and  irritating. 

Care  of  the  Nose — The  nostrils  have  been  provided  with  a  sieve  of  fine  hairs  called 
cilia.  The  function  of  the  cilia  is  to  exclude  dust  in  order  that  the  throat  and  lungs  may 
be  protected  from  irritation.  The  cilia  do  their  work  as  best  they  can,  considering  our  care- 
lessness.     We  sweep  carelessly  and  raise  a  large  amount  of  dust.     We  fail  to  ventilate  prop- 

435 


436        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 

erly  and  so  irritate  the  lining  of  the  nostrils.  We  fail  to  care  for  the  body  properly  and  so 
continue  to  take  cold  easily.  Repeated  colds  leave  the  cavities  of  the  nose  filled  with 
wastes  and  leave  the  membrane  weakened. 

Suggestions — Use  dustless  sweeping  powder.  Use  a  vacuum  cleaner.  Use  a  paraffin 
mop,  use  a  cotton  flannel  broom  bag  and  dip  the  bag  in  melted  paraffin.  In  these  and  other 
ways  remove  the  dust  from  the  house.  Keep  the  body  in  good  condition  and  aid  in  pre- 
vention of  colds.     Breathe  through  the  nostrils  and  thus  prevent  the  entrance  of  dust. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CARE  OF  THE  HANDS  AND  NAILS 

The  most  amazing  amount  of  damage  is  done  to  the  hands  and  nails  where 
women  grow  negligent  in  their  care  and  because  they  do  long  continued  work  fall 
into  the  lazy  habit,  after  a  time,  of  letting  the  hands  go  "till  they  get  through." 
Girls  in  offices,  or  at  a  sales  counter,  frequently  injure  their  hands  astonishingly 
by  not  washing  them  often  enough.  And  the  woman  in  the  home  contracts  the 
same  habit  far  more  often  than  she  thinks  she  is  ever  going  to  allow  herself. 

When  cleaning  hands  that  are  really  stained  with  dirt  which  has  remained  in 
the  pores  for  several  hours,  soap  and  water  should  not  be  the  first  application,  for 
nothing  but  a  soft  grease  will  be  effective.  Vaseline  is  one  of  the  best  dust  remov- 
ers, for  it  penetrates  all  cracks,  softening  instead  of  hardening  the  matter.  A  fluid 
soap  used  directly  afterwards  extracts  the  grease,  bringing  the  foreign  matter  with 
it.  In  cases  of  extreme  soil  mere  washing  leaves  the  skin  in  a  dingy  condition. 
This  is  the  explanation  of  many  unsightly  hands  and  a  defect  that  is  easily  reme- 
died. There  are  other  oily  applications  as  beneficial  as  vaseline  for  this  purpose, 
among  them  being  sweet  almond  oil,  or  soft  cold  cream.  A  necessary  feature  of 
these  is  that  the  application  must  be  either  liquid  or  one  that  liquifies  quickly,  or 
it  will  only  be  a  dust  collector. 

Wash  Hands  in  Grease — It  takes  less  than  five  minutes  to  get  into  condition  if  a  pot 
of  grease  is  kept  near  the  washstand  and  is  used  in  liberal  quantities,  as  for  instance  a  lump 
the  size  of  an  English  walnut  at  each  cleansing.  This  takes  about  half  a  minute.  Then  the 
hands  must  be  dipped  into  'warm  (not  hot)  water.  Any  simple  soap  may  be  used,  but  strong 
kinds  should  be  avoided.  A  nail  brush  is  necessary,  but  one  of  an  inexpensive  quality  will 
be  as  cleansing  as  a  costly  one.  The  finger  tips  require  several  extra  strokes.  Rinsing  must 
be  thorough. 

How  to  Dry  the  Hands — Drying  is  not  the  simple  process  that  many  persons  think  and 
in  the  manner  of  doing  it  lies  half  the  secret  of  having  pretty  nails. 

Each  finger  must  be  taken  separately,  the  towel  rubbed  down  the  sides,  back  and 
front,  beginning  at  the  tip.  The  common  mistake  is  to  begin  at  the  finger  base  and  rub  up, 
which  simply  trains  the  cuticle  down  over  the  nails  and  thickens  the  tips. 

Every  nail  must  be  wiped  individually  commencing  at  the  top  and  pressing  gently 
down  to  the  crescent  of  the  base  of  the  nail.  Only  in  this  way  will  good  shape  be  pre- 
served. The  fact  that  knuckles  are  not  thoroughly  dried  is  many  times  an  explanation  of 
redness. 

For  Rough   Hands Use   a    mixture   of   glycerine  For    whitening    the    hands    an    excellent    formula 

and  bay  rum,  equal  parts;  rub  over  the  hands  each  to  be  used  after  washing  is  made   of    15    grains   of 

time    after    having    them    in    'water    any    length    of  powdered   borax,    1 5    grains   of   common   table   salt, 

time;  dry  them  over  the  fire,   not  with  towel.      Use  one-half  dram  of  spirits  of  ammonia,   one  dram  oil 

the  preparation  before   retiring  at  night.      Perfume  of  orange,   two  ounces  of  glycerine  and  six  ounces 

the    mixture    if    you    like.       You    will    never    have  of   almond. 

rough  hands  with  this  treatment.  —■  .  n   i_      '  r         j  c      i  •    . 

Chapping Kub    a    tew    drops    or    glycerine    into 

Paste  for  the  Hands— Stir  a  teaspoonful  of  pow-  the  hands  when  washing,  while  they  are  still  soapy. 

dered  borax  and   five  drops  of  tincture   of  benzoin  Then    thoroughly    dry    them.       Wear    loose    gloves. 

into  four  ounces  of  rose  water  and  then  add  finely  With  this  treatment  the  hands  will  not  chap. 

powdered    oatmeal    and    almond    meal    in    quantities  If  the  hands   perspire   apply   this   lotion;    cologne 

sufficient  to  make  a  paste.      Before  retiring  spread  four  ounces,  tincture  of  belladonna  one-half  ounce. 

this  on  the  hands  and  cover  them  with  large  gloves.  When   you   have    rubbed    this   in   until   the   moisture 

On  arising  in  the  morning  rub  off  with  a  cleansing  is  absorbed  powder  with  orris  root  or  talcum  pow- 


cream. 


der. 


437 


438        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


If  the  perspiration  on  the  hands  is  excessive 
bathe  thoroughly  with  this  astringent  lotion  several 
times  daily:  Rose  water,  six  ounces;  elder  flower 
water,  two  ounces;  simple  tincture  of  benzoin,  one- 
half   ounce;   tannic  acid,    10    grains. 

If  the  hands  and  arms  turn  unusually  red  try 
this  liquid-white,  which  will  hide,  but  will  not  re- 
duce redness:  Pure  oxide  of  zinc,  one  ounce; 
glycerine,  one  dram;  rose  water,  four  ounces;  es- 
sence of  rose,  1 5  drops.  Shake  well  and  apply 
with  a  soft  sponge  or  an  antiseptic  gauze.  The 
skin  must  be  well  wiped  off  before  the  liquid  dries. 

Home  Manicuring — In  these  days,  when  beauty 
culture  is  a  fine  art,  every  woman  who  has  con- 
sideration for  her  appearance  sees  that  her  nails 
are   well   kept   and   daintily   manicured. 

This  does  not  involve  the  expenditure  of  either 
a  great  deal  of  time  or  trouble;  neither  is  it  nec- 
essary to  engage  the  services  of  a  professional  man- 
icurist. A  few  simple  instruments,  and  five  minutes 
devoted  to  their  care  two  or  three  times  a  week 
will    serve    to    keep    the    nails   in   perfect   order. 

All  that  is  required  is  a  pair  of  sharp  scissors, 
a  file,  a  few  emery  boards,  an  orange  stick,  a 
cuticle  knife  and  a  chamois  leather-covered  nail 
polisher. 

The  Process — Before  attempting  to  manicure 
the  nails,  soak  the  hands  in  a  basin  of  warm  soapy 
water,  so  that  the  cuticle  may  become  perfectly 
soft  and  easy  to  manipulate. 

Filing — When  this  has  been  done,  file  the  nails 
carefully.  They  should  be  cut  so  that  the  extreme 
edges  of  the  nail  and  the  tip  of  the  finger  are 
even,  and  each  nail  should  be  cut  to  follow  the 
curve  of  the  finger  to  which  it  belongs.  Pointed 
nails  are  not  only  unfashionable  but  positively 
ugly.  After  filing,  rub  each  nail  with  an  emery 
to   ensure  its  being  perfectly  smooth  at  the  tip. 

The  Half-Moon — Now  loosen  the  cuticle  or  skin 
round  the  base  of  the  nail1  with  the  cuticle  knife. 
This  should  be  done  carefully.  If  the  skin  gets 
cut  in  the  process  a  raw  bleeding  appearance  will 
be  the  result.  The  skin  should  first  be  lifted  away 
from  the  nail,  and  then  when  perfectly  loose 
pressed  back  to  reveal  the  little  half-moon  at  the 
base. 


In  some  hands  these  half-moons  are  visible  on 
all  the  fingers,  even  when  the  hands  have  been 
neglected,  on  others  they  are  only  visible  after 
long  treatment,  but  in  the  majority  of  hands  they 
will  be  quite  plainly  seen  after  two  or  three  man- 
icures. They  are,  however,  such  a  decided  adjunct 
to  the  beauty  of  the  hand  that  it  is  quite  worth 
while  to   take  a   little  trouble  to  cultivate  them. 

Hang  Nails — Often  after  loosening  the  cuticle 
small  portions  of  the  skin  will  adhere  to  the  nails. 
These  can  be  removed  at  once  by  dipping  an 
orange  stick  into  soapy  water  or  a  little  vaseline 
and  rubbing  the  nail  with  it.  Any  "hang  nails" 
must  be  clipped  off  as  closely  as  possible,  but  it 
is  a  good  plan  to  avoid  cutting  the  cuticle  whenever 
possible,  as  doing  so  only  helps  to  render  it  hard, 
thick   and    coarse. 

Finishing — A  piece  of  cut  lemon  rubbed  over 
the  nails  will  remove  any  stains,  and  a  little  white 
vaseline  should  then  be  smeared  on,  wiped  off  with 
a  soft  rag,  a  little  pink  polishing  powder  dusted 
on,  and  the  chamois-leather  nail  polisher  applied. 
When  all  is  finished,  dip  the  finger  tips  again  into 
the  soapy  water  to  cleanse  them  from  the  vaseline 
and  powder,  and  dry  the  hands  on  a  soft  towel. 
It  is  a  good  plan  to  press  the  cuticle  around  each 
nail  carefully  back  each  time  the  hands  are  washed 
and  dried,  as  this  will  serve  to  keep  the  little  half- 
moon   visible. 

Blunt  Instruments — When  purchasing  a  cuticle 
knife  care  should  be  taken  to  see  that  it  is  not  too 
sharp.  Except  the  scissors,  all  the  instruments 
used  for  manicuring  should  be  rather  blunt,  as 
when  sharp  they  are  apt  to  injure  the  surface  of 
the  nail,  leaving  it  rough,  and  also  to  cut  and 
bruise  the  cuticle. 

Bleach  the  Nails — Finger  nails  that  retain  their 
grayish  tinge  at  the  tips  should  be  bleached.  This 
can  be  done  with  borax  dampened  with  ammonia, 
or  ammonia  and  peroxide  of  hydrogen.  Moisten 
the  nails  on  the  underside,  slip  some  cotton  or  a 
cambric  handkerchief  over  the  orange  stick,  and 
wipe  the  nail  edges.  In  most  cases  the  nails  are 
instantly    turned    a    shell    white. 

For  Brittle  Nails — If  nails  break  easily  rub  with 
cold  cream  or  white  vaseline  or  cocoa  butter  and 
their  brittleness  will  be  lessened. 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— HANDS  AND  NAILS  439 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


440         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CARE  OF  THE  FEET 

Pink  toes,  arched  feet,  thin  and  slender  ones,  are  as  much  an  attraction 
as  a  straight  nose,  well  curved  lips  and  telling  eyes.  It  is  not  perhaps  given  many 
of  your  friends  to  see  your  feet  frequently  unshod,  but  your  own  sense  of  comfort 
and  well-being  as  well  as  your  self-consciousness  of  cleanliness  and  neatness  are 
involved  in  the  question  of  your  feet. 

We  often  ignore  the  item  of  sensible  care  of  the  feet — not  merely  the  trimming  of  toe 
nails  and  the  treatment  of  soft  and  hard  corns  or  callous  places  but  the  reasonable  way 
of  treating  this  important  part  of  our  physical  makeup  so  as  to  avoid  unnecessary  suffering. 
For  instance,  there  is  the  shoe  question,  which  is  in  summer  time  so  annoying  and  weighty. 
A  foot  specialist  declares  that  canvas  shoes,  or  soft  thin  tan  ones,  are  or  ought  to  be 
the  only  eligible  kind  for  summer  wear.  To  bring  back  our  feet,  our  poor  misused,  ill- 
treated  feet,   to  their  normal  and  natural  state,  means  much  to  health  and  temper. 

Should  we  happen  to  be  enjoying  ourselves  for  a  brief  space  in  the  country  the  chance 
to  wear  sandals,  or  in  some  other  way  "almost  nothing,"  should  not  be  missed;  it  is  bene- 
fiting and  refreshing  to  the  utmost.  Are  we  less  fortunate,  let  us  adapt  ourselves  and  go 
stocking  footed  around  the  house  for  a  while  each  day. 

When  you  bathe  your  feet,  add  a  little  alum,  to  water  hot  and  cold  alternately;  it  will 
help  a  great  deal  in  keeping  them  in  good  condition  and  you  will  find  your  general  com- 
fort greatly  increased.  Some  prefer  sharp  salt  water,  some  bismuth,  but  an  addition  of  the 
one  or  the  other  is  very  much  to  be  recommended. 

A  little  cold  cream  or  olive  oil  rubbed  in  and  then  carefully  wiped  off,  then  powder- 
ing, is  delicious  for  tired  feet. 

It  is  not  a  bit  hard  to  avoid  sore  feet,  even  for  the  most  trying  occupations;  it  is  all 
in  the  knowing  how — and  what  is  most  important  is  following  the  dictates  of  one's  own 
good  common  sense  and  experience. 

FEET  AND  THEIR  CLOTHING 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin) 

Physical  efficiency  depends  upon  the  normal  condition  of  all  of  the  organs 
of  the  body  and  two  of  the  members  that  have  much  to  do  with  the  physical  effi- 
ciency are  the  feet.  Many  feet  are  ruined  by  being  carelessly  shod  in  the  early  life 
of  the  child.  The  mother  who  is  careless  in  this  respect  has  much  to  be  responsi- 
ble for. 

Precautions — Be  sure  that  the  heel  of  the  shoe  is  low  enough  to  throw  the  weight  of 
the  body  upon  the  ball  of  the  foot.  This  height  varies  with  different  people.  Be  sure  that 
the  shoe  fits  snugly  around  the  heel  and  instep.  The  shoe  that  is  loose  at  the  heel  slips  and 
fails  to  protect  the  heel  or  instep.  The  instep  especially  needs  protection  because  of  the 
weight  it  has  to  carry  and  because  of  the  number  of  small  bones  which  are  bound  together 
by  ligaments. 

Be  sure  that  the  widest  part  of  the  foot  (across  the  foot  at  the  great  toe  joint)  ex- 
actly coincides  with  the  widest  part  of  the  shoe.  Be  sure  that  the  shoe  is  amply  wide  at 
the  toes.  There  should  be  room  for  the  toes  to  move  freely.  The  freedom  of  motion  in- 
sures good  circulation  and  good  circulation  insures  proper  nourishment  of  the  feet.  The  toe 
of  the  shoe  should  be  so  shaped  as  to  allow  the  great  toe  to  lie  in  a  vertical  position  rather 
than  to  be  crowded  into  an  oblique  position. 

441 


442         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK — Section  VIII — Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


The  shoe  should  be  made  of  firm,  but  porous  leather.  A  dense  leather  does  not  al- 
low the  moisture  to  evaporate  and  so  makes  the  feet  tender.  The  fact  that  the  leather  is 
stiff  retards  the  free  action  of  the  joints  and  muscles  and  so  weakens  the  feet. 

The  sole  of  the  street  shoe  should  be  thick  enough,  to  protect  the  sole  of  the  foot  from 
dampness.  The  low  shoe  should  not  be  worn  except  in  warm  weather.  Severe  colds, 
weak  throats  and  weak  lungs  are  directly  traceable  to  low  shoes  and  to  thin  soles. 

Care  of  Feet — The  feet  are  covered  so  closely  so  many  hours  of  the  day,  that  care- 
ful bathing,  rubbing  and  dressing  are  absolutely  necessary.  Careful  bathing  in  water  at 
body  temperature  relieves  inflammation.  A  thorough  rubbing  in  cocoa  butter  promotes 
good  circulation,  tends  to  relax  the  muscles,  and  makes  the  skin  firm  and  well  nourished. 
Corns  will  probably  disappear  when  pressure  or  friction  is  removed.  If  it  seems  necessary 
to  trim  them,  sterilize  the  knife,  and  do  not  trim  too  deeply,  as  a  serious  infection  may  re- 
sult. 


MISCELLANIES   ON   FEET 


Tender  feet  generally  arise  from  the  neglect  of 
cleanliness,  the  use  of  thin  cotton  or  silk  stockings 
and  boots  or  shoes  that  are  either  too  stiff  and 
tight  or  misshapen  or  not  sufficiently  porous  to 
admit  of  the  escape  of  perspiration. 

Tight  boots  and  shoes,  and  water-proof  ones, 
which  are  also  air-tight,  are  the  most  common 
causes  of  tender  feet;  they  also  are  the  cause  of 
headaches,  dizziness,  dyspepsia,  diarrhoea  and  even 
apoplexy.  Boots  and  shoes  too  narrow  across  the 
toes  or  the  tread  of  the  foot,  or  insufficiently  long 
for  ease  and  comfort,  though  large  enough  else- 
where, either  cramp  or  distort  the  fore  part  of  the 
foot  and  toes,  or  arrest  the  nails  in  their  forward 
growth,  forcing  them  back  upon  the  sensitive  flesh 
at  their  roots  and  sides  and  causing"  them  to  grow 

in  thickness  and  width  only results  which  may  be 

gradual  but  are  always  painful — usually  the   effect 
known    as    "ingrowing    nails." 

Corns  are  pests  that  make  a  vixenish  temper  ex- 
cusable. Yet  they  are  curable.  The  surest  pre- 
ventive is  a  perfect-fitting  shoe  and  absolute  clean- 
liness. When  they  first  arrive  they  may  be  kept 
quiet  by  tying  the  feet  up  at  night  with  a  piece 
of  lemon  over  the  offending  member.  Soak  the 
next  day  in  hot  water.  This,  if  repeated  for  sev- 
eral nights,  will  so  soften  the  corn  that  it  can  be 
easily  pinched  out.  Never  cut  a  corn;  blood  poison 
is  worse,  on  the  whole,  than  a  bad  disposition  and 
a  scolded  family. 

Tired  Feet — Bathing  the  feet  with  alcohol  when 
tired,  or  rubbing  them  with  a  little  cocoa  butter 
after  a  mustard  bath,  is  restful.  A  wash  of  bran 
and  soda  will  ease  the  "burn"   of  tired  sore  feet. 

Bath  for  the  Feet — You  may  secure  much  com- 
fort   for    the    feet    by    giving    them    a    bath    lasting 


at  least  20  minutes  in  water  which  is  kept  con- 
stantly as  hot  as  can  be  endured  and  to  which  has 
been  added  household  ammonia  in  the  proportion 
of  a  tablespoonful  to  every  quart  of  water.  After 
bath  for  ten  minutes  the  feet  should  be  rubbed 
under  the  water  as  vigorously  and  continuously  as 
their  tenderness  will  aTlow  and  wiped  dry  with  a 
soft   towel. 

To  Keep  Feet  From  Swelling — Dip  the  feet  every 
night  in  hot  water  and  rub  them  with  vaseline. 
Don't  wear  the  same  pair  of  shoes  two  days  in 
succession. 

The  Toe  Nails  require  attention  the  same  as  the 
finger  nails,  only  they  should  never  be  cut  down 
at  the  corners  but  nearly  straight  across;  they 
should  not  extend  beyond  the  flesh.  The  cuticle 
should  be  loosened  after  the  bath,  when  it  will  peel 
off   easily. 

Inflamed  Joint — If  the  joint  of  the  big  toe  be- 
comes inflamed,  wear  a  shoe  that  is  wide  enough  to 
keep  the  toes  from  being  pinched  together.  Put 
a  piece  of  absorbent  cotton  between  the  great  and 
second  toes,  large  enough  to  keep  them  apart; 
then  take  an  adhesive  plaster  and  bandage  the 
ball  of  the  foot  firmly,  holding  the  joint  in  place. 
By  holding  the  joint  in  place  with  the  plaster  the 
inflammation  will  soon  leave  and  it  will  become 
normal. 

Chilblains — A  chilblain  lotion  that  is  found 
soothing  is  made  from  half  an  ounce  of  gylcerine 
and  twenty  grains  each  of  tinctures  of  iodine  and 
opium.  It  is  kept  over  the  places  on  bandages, 
the  cloths  never  becoming  dry.  If  the  irritation  is 
on  the  feet,  woolen  stockings  should  be  worn,  and 
the  greatest  care  given  not  to  getting  the  toes 
damp. 


i 


PERSONAL  HYGIENE  AND  PERSON— CARE  OF  THE  FEET  443 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


PERSONAL  CLOTHING 

(Iowa  State  College   Bulletin) 

Effect  Upon  Health — The  entire  body  should  be  uniformly  clothed.  Materials 
differ  in  their  ability  to  conduct  heat.  Poor  conductors  like  fur  and  wool  are  most 
suitable  for  winter.  Too  much  clothing  causes  waste  of  energy.  Good  conductors 
like  linen,  silk  and  cotton  are  best  for  summer.  Black  and  dark  shades  of  any 
color  are  warmer,  because  they  have  the  power  of  holding  the  rays  of  sunlight. 
White  has  the  power  of  refracting  the  rays  of  sunlight,  hence  keeps  the  body 
cooler.  The  garment  that  does  not  fit  the  body  comfortably  impairs  the  circu- 
lation and  affects  the  general  health. 

Effect  Upon  Character — Perfectly  fitted,  well-made  clothing  that  is  suitable  in 
style,  makes  the  wearer  unconscious  of  her  clothes.  It  makes  her  genuine  and 
wholesome  rather  than  careless,  superficial  and  extravagant. 

Color  and  design  are  very  important  factors  in  dress.  Poor  material  in  gaudy 
colors  is  conspicuous.  It  indicates  cheapness  in  the  garment  and  lack  of  taste  in 
the  wearer.  It  should  be  avoided.  Dull,  ugly  colors  are  depressing.  Fabrics  in 
soft,  rich  colors,  harmoniously  blended,  are  pleasing  and  modest.  They  are  artistic 
and  have  a  refining  influence  upon  the  appearance  and  character  of  the  person  wear- 
ing them. 

Care  of  Clothing — Clothing  must  be  well  aired,  since  damp  garments  remove  too  great 
an  amount  of  heat  from  the  body.  The  frequent  airing  and  sunning  helps  to  destroy  dis- 
ease germs  and  to  remove  waste  matter  that  has  been  thrown  off  by  the  skin.  These  wastes 
are  scales  from  the  skin,  oily  matter  from  the  glands,  and  substances  left  on  the  surface 
by  perspiration.  All  dust  should  be  removed  from  the  clothing,  since  dust  may  be  an 
active  carrier  of  disease  germs.  Clothing  must  be  kept  in  proper  place  to  prevent  waste 
of  time  and  loss  of  temper.      Clothing  must  be  kept  in  good   repair  for  the  same  reasons. 

Purchase  of  Clothing — Before  making  a  purchase,  every  woman  should  decide  what 
style  of  garment  is  required,  what  materials  will  harmonize  best  with  her  present  wardrobe, 
what  amount  of  money  may  be  spent  and  what  quality  of  material  should  be  secured  from 
that  expenditure.  She  should  also  know  the  amount  of  material  required  for  each  gar- 
ment. 

Suggestions — It  pays  to  buy  one  good  garment  rather  than  two  cheap  ones.  All  wool 
fabrics  wear  well  and  do  not  fade  or  soil  easily.  The  demand  for  woolen  cloth  exceeds 
the  supply,  hence  many  devices  are  used  to  make  the  supply  go  a  long  way  and  to  deceive 
the  buyer. 

Standard  cotton  materials  wear  well,  are  cheap,  and  plentiful.  Cheap  cotton  mate- 
rials are  often  filled  with  starch  and  when  washed  are  coarse  and  loosely  woven. 

Do  not  buy  fifteen-cent  dress  goods  called  "linen  suitings."  It  is  impossible  to  sell 
genuine  linen  at  such  a  price.  The  fifteen-cent  material  is  cotton,  starched  and  glazed  to  make 
it  look  like  linen. 

The  quality  of  the  material  depends  on  the  strength  of  the  fibers,  the  fineness  or  coarse- 
ness of  the  fabric,  its  weave,  color  and  method  of  finish. 


444 


PROPER  ATTITUDE  OF  THE  BODY 

(Iowa  State  College   Bulletin) 

Chest — Cultivate  the  habit  of  holding  the  chest  up  and  out.  This  enlarges  the  chest 
cavity  and  strengthens  the  lungs.  It  allows  an  increased  amount  of  oxygen  to  enter  the 
lungs  and  so  aids  in  the  oxidation  of  food.  ) 

If  the  chest  is  raised  the  diaphragm  is  raised,  and  pressure  is  removed  from  the  organs 
below  the  diaphragm.  The  habit  of  walking,  sitting  and  standing  with  the  chest  dropped 
and  sunken  not  only  weakens  the  lungs,  but  it  weakens  the  organs  below  the  diaphragm,  be- 
cause it  throws  too  much  weight  upon  them. 

It  is  also  true  that  the  raised  chest  gives  one  a  feeling  and  appearance  of  courage  and 
efficiency  that  can  never  be  enjoyed  by  the  person  with  the  dropped  and  sunken  chest. 

Shoulders — Hold  the  shoulders  down  and  back.  This  position  enlarges  the  chest  cav- 
ity and  so  strengthens  the  entire  body. 

Precautions — Have  the  kitchen  sink  and  the  ironing  table  high  enough  to  prevent  the 
necessity  of  stooping.  Stand  erect  while  using  the  broom.  Do  not  make  the  work  more 
difficult  by  standing  in   an  unnatural   cramped  position. 

Do  not  allow  the  child  to  acquire  the  habit  of  reading  with  the  eyes  too  near  the 
book.  This  not  only  injures  the  eyes,  but  it  compresses  the  chest  and  weakens  the  organs 
below  the  diaphragm. 

Abdomen — Stand  with  the  abdomen  "sucked  in"  and  the  chest  forward.  If  the  body 
is  held  in  this  position,  the  weight  of  the  body  will  be  thrown  upon  the  ball  of  the  foot  and 
the  body  will  be  relieved  of  much  jar.  /ipt,*1 

Prevention  of  Jar — The  ball  of  the  foot  is  a  springy,  elastic  cushion  which  is  intended 
to  bear  the  weight  of  the  body.  Its  elasticity  prevents  jar  upon  the  spinal  cord,  while  the 
habit  of  walking  with  full  weight  upon  the  heels  throws  much  of  the  jar  upon  the  delicate 
spinal  cord  that  lies  within  the  bony  spinal  column.  Nature  has  also  protected  this  deli- 
cate cord  by  placing  spongy,   bone  cushions  between   the  vertebrae  of  the  spinal   column. 

Walking  Up  Stairs — Stand  erect,  take  a  full  breath,  hold  the  chest  out  and  the  chin  up. 
With  the  body  in  this  position,  climbing  stairs  is  not  difficult.  It  is  only  when  the  shoulders 
are  bent,  the  diaphragm  lowered,  the  chest  compressed  and  the  chin  lowered  that  climbing 
stairs  is  difficult. 

Relaxation  of  Muscles — When  a  muscle  is  not  in  use,  let  it  rest.  The  tightening  of  the 
muscles  deprives  the  body  of  energy.  Do  not  waste  that  energy.  The  muscles  of  the  face 
can  in  no  way  aid  in  the  process  of  walking  and  yet  how  frequently  one  sees  the  muscles  of 
the  face  all  tense  and  stiff  as  one  walks  along  the  street.  Those  rigid  muscles  mean  en- 
ergy wasted.  Learn  to  relax  the  muscles  frequently.  They  become  tired,  just  as  the  eye 
would  if  it  were  constantly  contracted  to  decipher  very  fine  print. 


445 


446       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— .Section  VIII— Personal  Hygiene  and  Person 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


MOTHER  AND  BABY 

Dandthe  growing  child  c 


THE   EXPECTANT   MOTHER— HER   FOOD 


Most  of  both  the  mental  and  physical  suffering  usual  to  the  expectant 
mother—the  fear  and  doubts,  the  helplessness,  the  hopelessness,  as  well  as  the 
headaches,  dizziness,  heart-burn,  faintness  and  loss  of  appetite — spring  from  the 
same  cause:  the  wrong  food  wrongly  eaten,  and  the  pampering  and  lack  of  exer- 
cise and  fresh  air  to  which  the  woman  resigns  herself  as  a  matter  of  course. 

For  ages,  diet  for  the  prospective  mother  has  been  based  on  superstition 
and  old  wives'  tales.  Both  mother  and  child  have  suffered.  Some  women  over- 
eat on  the  supposition  that  they  must  "feed  two."  Others  actually  starve  them- 
selves in  the  belief  that  this  will  reduce  the  size  of  the  baby  or  soften  its  bones, 
or  perform  some  other  imaginary  function  of  worse  than  only  imaginary  desir- 
ability. 

Years  ago  midwives  believed  sick  pregnancies  the  only  safe  ones,  and  were 
dubious  over  the  mother  who  awaited  the  coming  of  her  baby  in  health  and  con- 
tent. Science  has  dissipated  such  insanity.  The  safest  and  in  every  way  desir- 
able delivery  is  the  one  approached  with  cheerfulness  and  in  perfect  health ;  it  will 
usually  be  attended  with  less  pain  and  most  probably  free  from  unpleasant  after- 
consequences,  j 

And  the  best  means,  practically  the  only  means,  for  attaining  this  health 
and  cheerfulness  is  moderate  daily  exercises  in  the  open,  fresh,  clean  air  and  out- 
of-doors — not  over-exercise,  of  course,  not  jumping,  running,  climbing  or  lifting — 
and  proper  diet — with  emphasis  again  on  this  item — proper  diet. 

These  things  are  essential  to  the  health  of  a  woman  at  all  times ;  but  a 
woman  who  during  the  most  of  her  days  may  ignore  the  question  of  perfect 
health,  will  be  pretty  certain  to  crave  it  now,  for  her  baby's  sake  as  well  as  her 
own.  And  the  secret  of  it  is  the  same  at  this  time  as  at  any  other — only  this  is 
the  time  when  she  will  take  notice  of  it. 

The  woman  must  choose  her  food  for  its  nutritive  qualities  rather  than  its 
quantity,  and  must  eat  inteligently — and  again  not  too  much.  Her  dizzy  spells,  heart- 

447 


448         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 

burn,  headaches  and  other  ills,  are  almost  all  merely  from  indigestion.  She  does  not 
take  her  usual  exercise,  and  she  is  more  subject  than  normal  to  indigestion.  There 
are  no  special  weird  and  mysterious  differences  in  her  functions  due  to  the  preg- 
nancy. 

Get  that  one  sane  fact  well  fixed  in  your  mind,  expectant  one,  and  half 
your  battle  is  over!  Follow  usual  common  sense  in  feeding  yourself,  only  be  a 
little  more  particular  than  ordinarily.  Don't  try  to  work  out  mysterious,  theoret- 
ical ideas  of  what  the  child  needs — he  needs  what  you  need.  Get  yourself  in  per- 
fect physical  trim  and  keep  yourself  so;  feed  yourself  simple,  wholesome,  nourish- 
ing food  such  as  agrees  with  you  and  builds  up  your  health  and  strength.  Nature 
will  select  from  the  store  of  your  own  nourishment  what  the  child  needs — and  no 
more.  Especially,  however,  don't  over-eat — don't  clog  the  system  with  too  much, 
don't  give  it  food  too  rich,  until  the  intestines,  poisoned,  perhaps  constipated,  with 
undigested  and  indigestible  matter,  send  back  the  poisons  therefrom  into  the  blood. 

All  of  which,  after  all,  as  above  stated,  resolves  itself  into  simple  rules  you 
ought  to  observe  all  the  time,  but  probably — well  don't,  and  more  or  less  won't 
— except  at  this  time  for  your  baby's  sake. 

A  PROPERLY  BALANCED  DIET 

A  balanced  diet  for  the  prospective  mother — and  for  practically  everybody  else — 
should  be  about  as  follows  (it  will  vary  with  different  physical  or  digestive  temperaments)  : 

There  should  be  some  fresh  (uncooked)  food  every  day.  This  may  be  fruits  or 
such  vegetables  as  tomatoes  and  lettuce.  Figs  or  evaporated  prunes  may  take  the  place 
of  fresh  fruits  if  the  latter  are  not  always  obtainable.  Stewed  fruits  rank  next.  The  seeds 
of  berries  should  be  removed  by  straining  or  otherwise.  If  raw  apples,  melons,  pineapples, 
etc.,  cause  indigestion,  nine  chances  to  one  they  are  not  properly  masticated  and  if  scraped 
or   mashed  instead  of  taken  in  bites  or  chunks  the  soft  pulp  will  cause  no  distress  whatever. 

Vegetables  easily  digested  are  white  and  sweet  potatoes  thoroughly  cooked  and 
mashed  or  creamed,  peas,  rice,  /  lima  beans,  onions,  well  cooked,  tomatoes,  carrots,  aspara- 
gus,  spinach,   string  beans,   lettuce,  beets,   Brussels  sprouts. 

Coarse  cereals,  such  as  oats,  wheat,  barley,  are  good  breakfast  foods.  Breads  are 
best  if  made  from  corn-meal  and  unbolted  or  whole  wheat  flour  rather  than  fine  white  flour. 

In  meats,  chicken,  turkey,  beef,  lamb  and  fish  take  leadership. 

Milk  and  eggs  should  lead  over  all ;  they  contain  every  property  needed.  They  pall, 
however,  if  not  varied  with  other  foods. 

If  you  live  in  the  country  and  have  plenty  of  fresh  eggs,  milk,  butter,  vegetables, 
and  a  supply  of  chickens,  you  need  not  worry  much  about  your  diet  as  a  prospective  mother, 
except  to  see  to  the  addition  of  some  fruit  and  that  you  eat  cornbread  or  whole  wheat  bread 
for  about  half  of  your  bread  indulgence. 

Summing  up:  The  prospective  mother,  as  well  as  every  other  woman,  should  have 
a  diet  of  a  little  meat,  a  generous  allowance  of  fruits  and  vegetables — and  much  water,  milk 
(or  other  wholesome  liquids) — and  then — more  water  and  more  milk. 

ARRANGEMENT  OF  MEALS 

During  the  last  two  or  three  months  of  pregnancy,  one  rule  usual  at  other  times  may 
be  varied.  When  the  child  is  attaining  its  greatest  growth,  the  energy  and  strength  of  the 
mother  is  greatly  drawn  upon,  and  she  begins  to  need  more  than  normal  nourishment.  This 
should  be  met  by  eating  oftener  than  three  times  a  day — not  by  more  abundant  meals.  The 
meals  should  all  be  light  and  simple. 


MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD— MOTHER 


449 


For  this  period  a  good  menu  is  about  as  follows: 

Breakfast — Fruit,  egg  or  cereal,  coarse  bread,  toasted  or  plain,  beverage  (preferably 
milk) — a  very  little  coffee  if  a  stimulant  is  needed. 

Mid-Forenoon — Milk,    egg-nog    (mild),  gruel  or  broth,  oatmeal  or  Graham  wafers. 

Noon  Meal — Meat,  vegetables,  salad  with    a   simple   cream    dressing,    light   dessert, 
custard,  fruit  or  ice. 

Mid-Afternoon — Grape  juice  or  other  fruit  juice  or  fruit  pulp,   glass  sweet  milk  or 
buttermilk,  cracker  or  biscuit. 

Supper — Meat  or  consomme,  fish,  cold  cereal,  wafers,  stewed  fruit. 

Bed-Time — Milk    (malted  preferred),  gruel  of  corn-meal,  made  with  milk  and  water. 

At  each  of  the  above  meals  eat  lightly  and  stop  while  still  a  little  hungry. 


Send  to  Washington  for  These  Two  Books 
PRENATAL  CARE 


U.  S.  Department  of  Labor 
Children  Series,  No.  1 

INFANT   CARE 


U.  S.  Department  of  Labor 
Children  Series,  No.  2 

By  Mrs.  Max  West 


The  above  publications  by  Mrs.  West  contain,  in  our  estimation,  perhaps  the  most 
authentic,  thorough,  condensed  information  obtainable  from  any  source  on  the  above 
subjects. 

PUBLISHERS. 


450  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


FOR  HIS  MAJESTY  HIMSELF 

Bed  for  Baby — A  clothes  basket  makes  an  excellent  bed  for  a  young  child. 
Choose  the  ordinary  oblong  basket  and  line  it  with  pale  blue  silk  or  silesia,  drawing 
the  lining  down  far  enough  to  cover  the  outside  and  gathering  it  to  fit  neatly  around 
the  bottom.     If  desired,  wadding  may  be  placed  between  the  basket  and  lining. 

Make  a  soft  little  mattress  to  fit  the  bottom,  and  sew  around  the  edges  of 
the  basket  a  flounce  of  lace  deep  enough  to  nearly  reach  the  floor.  A  dainty 
canopy  may  be  made  by  shaping  over  one  end  of  the  basket  wires  or  small  willow 
boughs  on  which  a  piece  of  lace  or  swiss  has  been  shirred;  and  the  narrow  ruffle 
of  lace  decorating  the  front  edge  of  the  canopy  may  be  tied  back  with  dainty  blue 
ribbons. 

A  Trunk  for  Baby's  Clothes — A  plain  matting  or  cretonne  covered  shirtwaist  box  is 
the  best  kind  of  a  trunk  for  baby.  Get  one  about  thirty  inches  long  and  sixteen  wide.  Make 
a  tray  twenty  inches  long  and  nail  cleats  inside  the  box  to  rest  it  on.  It  will  slide  back  and 
forth  and  can  be  removed  without  effort.  The  tray  holds  a  pin  cushion,  soap,  toilet  articles, 
etc.,  while  there  is  abundant  room  for  clothing  in  the  bottom. 

The  Child's  Bath — One  can  introduce  play  and  fancy  into  so  many  things  connected 
with  the  daily  necessaries  that  are  often  so  disagreeable  to  children.  What  ordeal  is  worse 
for  the  average  child  than  being  "scrubbed"? 

A  Pretty  Towel  embroidered  in  yellow  ducks  affords  an  element  of  attraction  in  the 
.bathing  hour;  if  done  in  the  simple  tapestry  stitch  the  embroidering  of  the  ducks  will  take 
but  a  short  time.  Sometimes  towels  can  be  obtained  already  stamped  for  the  illustration;  if 
one  cannot  be  found,  trace  it  with  carbon  upon  the  towel.  Work  over  the  outline  thus, 
transferred  in  yellow,  insert  a  black  eye,  and  the  duck  is  complete.  One  duck  placed  after 
the  other,  in  a  line,  and  a  blue  patch  of  tapestry  stitch  at  the  end  of  the  towel  will  make 
the  ducks  appear  as  though  they  are  waddling  toward  a  pond.  The  towel  can  be  simply 
hemmed,  hemstitched  or  scalloped,  and  buttonhole  stitched  in  white  mercerized  twist. 

The  Small  Washcloths  can  be  decorated  with  a  fish  in  outline  stitch  or  a  tiny  boat. 
A  make-believe  game  of  "Going  to  the  Seashore"  will  ofttimes  bring  an  otherwise  reluctant 
child  willingly  to  the  dreaded  tub. 

If  the  child  is  quite  small,  a  rubber  doll  that  he  may  take  into  the  tub  with  him  will 
give  untold  delight. 

Diet  for  Young  Children — Questions  are  often  asked  as  to  exactly  what  a  child  may 
be  allowed  to  eat  during  the  period  between  the  first  and  second  birthdays.  There  are  cer- 
tain broad  rules  which  can  be  laid  down.  Milk  looms  large  as  a  food — not  as  a  drink,  please, 
for  which  plain  water  should  be  given — with  broth,  gravy,  boiled  fish  and  chicken,  bread 
crumbs  soaked  in  bacon  fat,  a  properly  boiled  egg  or  only  the  yolk,  if  the  white  has  been 
allowed  to  get  tough  and  hard,  and  always  some  rusks  to  chew  and  nibble. 

Vegetables  Valuable — At  eighteen  months  old  a  further  stride  can  be  made,  and 
mutton  or  broth  freshly  roasted  may  be  given,  first  in  small  quantities.  Here  you  will  gen- 
erally find  it  best  to  pound  the  meat.  However,  if  the  child  has  the  inestimable  advantage 
of  a  good  digestion  (which  it  should  have,  barring  some  hereditary  delicacy  or  the  sad  re- 
sults of  bad  treatment)  and  has  learned  already  to  eat  slowly  and  bite  its  food  properly, 
there  is  no  reason  why  the  meat  should  not  be  given  simply  cut  up.      It  is  far  better  then, 

451 


452  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 

for  the  child  is  using  the  teeth  as  well  as  accustoming  himself  to  eat  properly,  and  although 
it  takes  a  little  longer  for  the  feeding  process  the  time  is  well  spent. 

It  should  be  the  aim  of  every  one  in  charge  of  children  at  this  age  to  make  their 
little  charges  form  the  habit  of  eating  slowly  and  masticating  properly.  Any  amount  of  after 
trouble  caused  by  the  bolting  of  food  will  then  be  saved. 

By  the  time  a  child  is  two,  vegetables  may  be  made  to  play  their  own  part — both 
potatoes  and  green  vegetables.  The  latter  usually  have  to  be  introduced  somewhat  care- 
fully and  in  small  quantities,  for  children  as  a  rule  dislike  them.  Potatoes  should  be  care- 
fully cooked,  and  it  may  be  well  to  remember  that  the  most  valuable  part,  from  the  point 
of  view  of  the  growing  organism,  at  least,  is  that  which  lies  quite  close  to  the  skin,  where 
only  the  salts  so  much  needed  are  found,  and  this  part,  unfortunately,  is  too  often  peeled 
off  and  thrown  away. 

Fruit,  too,  is  permissible  after  the  second  birthday,  if  properly  prepared  and  in  good 
condition.  Of  course,  it  is  often  given  before,  but  generally  speaking  the  second  birthday 
rule  is  a  wise  one.  An  exception  may  be  made  in  favor  of  a  slice  of  ripe  apple,  which  forms 
an  excellent  safeguard  to  the  teeth  if  eaten  at  the  end  of  a  meal,  especially  one  which  other- 
wise ends  with  soft  or  sweet  food;  and,  of  course,  fruit  juice  should  have  been  well  repre- 
sented in  the  dietary  all  along. 

Starchy  Food  Dangerous — Just  a  word  about  milk  puddings.  The  ordinary  ones 
— rice,  tapioca,  sago,  and  so  on — are  all  simply  forms  of  starchy  food,  and  this  is  an  ele- 
ment to  diet  which  may  very  easily  be  overdone.  Far  more  children  suffer  from  indigestion 
from  an  excess  of  starch  than  is  commonly  realized^  Indeed,  usually  the  first  thing  done  in 
home  doctoring  of  the  child,  when  digestive  disturbance  manifests  itself,  is  to  cut  off  meat  or 
its  equivalents  and  keep  the  child  on  farinaceous  food,  whereas  precisely  the  opposite  course 
should  be  followed. 


Hints  for  Mothers — Keep  your  baby  away  from  sick  people  and  out  of  crowds. 
Do  not  try  to  teach  baby  to  stand.  A  healthy  baby  will  stand  and  walk  when  strong  enough 
to  do  so.  •* 

Visit  the  school  where  you  send  your  children,  and  satisfy  yourself  that  it  is  sani 
tary,  properly  heated,  lighted  and  ventilated  and  not  overcrowded. 

Give  each  child  who  goes  to  school  a   pretty   folding   drinking  cup   or   a  supply  o 
individual  paper  cups. 

BABY'S    FIRST   TEETH 


: 


The  embryonic  teeth  begin  to  develop  at  least  six  months  before  birth.  It  is  prob- 
able that  a  nutritious  diet  for  the  prospective  mother  lays  the  foundation  for  healthy  teeth 
in  the  baby  and  that  lack  of  proper  food  for  the  mother  may  deprive  both  her  own  and 
the  baby's  teeth  of  some  part  of  their  normal   vigor. 

Every  child  has  two  sets  of  teeth.  The  first  set,  known  as  the  deciduous  or  "milk" 
teeth,  is  replaced  beginning  at  about  the  sixth  year  with  the  permanent  or  "second  teeth." 
Nearly  all  so-called  "teething"  troubles  belong  to  the  first  period,  as  a  disturbance  is  rarely 
connected   with   the  coming  of  the  permanent  set. 

At  birth  each  tiny  tooth  of  both  sets  lies  partly  imbedded  in  a  cavity  of  the  jaw-bone, 
covered  and  surrounded  by  the  softer  tissues  of  the  gum.  As  the  baby  grows,  the  teeth 
grow  also,  and  if  the  baby  is  healthy  they  are  ready  to  cut  through  the  gums  beginning  at 
about  the  seventh  month  of  life. 

There  are  twenty  of  the  milk  teeth,  five  in  each  half-jaw.  The  teeth  appear  in  groups 
of  five  to  eight  weeks;  after  the  second,  a  pause  of  one  to  three  months;  after  the  third,  one 


MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD— CHILD'S  TEETH 


453 


of  from  two  to  three  months;  after  the  fourth,  one  of  from  two  to  four  months.  Thus,  by 
the  time  a  baby  is  one  year  old,  it  may  have  six  teeth;  at  one  and  one-half  years  there  should 
be  twelve;  at  two  years,  sixteen  teeth;  and  at  two  and  one-half  years  the  entire  set  should 
be  cut. 

There  is  considerable  variation,  both  as  to  the  order  in  which  they  appear  and  in 
the  time,  so  that  the  mother  need  not  be  alarmed  if  her  baby  does  not  follow  the  average 
as  stated,  but  if  the  baby  has  no  teeth  at  the  end  of  the  first  year  it  can  hardly  be  said  to 
be  developing  properly;  probably  the  diet  is  at  fault,  or  some  disease  is  retarding  the  growth 
of  the  baby  in  general,   and  the  doctor  should  be  consulted. 

THE  CARE  OF  THE  GROWING  CHILD'S   TEETH 

(U.   S.   Department   of  Labor,   Children's   Bureau) 

By  the  end  of  the  second  year  the  baby  should  have  his  milk  teeth  complete 
and  until  the  sixth  or  seventh  year,  when  the  permanent  set  will  begin  to  appear. 
These  teeth  must  serve  all  the  purposes  that  the  final  set  will  serve  later.  Since  this 
is  the  time  the  child  is  learning  to  chew  his  food,  a  process  necessary  not  only  for 
proper  digestion  but  for  the  strengthening  and  developing  of  his  jaws  and  for  the 
proper  growth  of  the  permanent  teeth,  it  is  important  to  keep  the  first  teeth  in  the 
best  possible  working  order.  The  condition  of  the  teeth  is  a  fair  index  to  the  general 
health  of  the  child.  < 


Until  the  child  is  old  enough  to  use  a  toothbrush 
.  himself,  the  mother  should  wash  his  teeth  every 
day;  but  as  early  as  possible  the  child  should 
learn  to  care  for  his  own  teeth.  If  the  teeth  can- 
not conveniently  be  cleaned  after  each  meal,  the 
mouth  may  at  least  be  rinsed.  Children  should 
be  taught  that  it  is  of  special  importance  to  wash 
the  teeth  and  mouth  after  eating  nuts,  or  any 
sweet,  sticky,  or  pasty  food.  The  teeth  should  be 
carefully  cleaned  at  bedtime,  since  the  fermenta- 
tion of  food  particles  left  in  the  mouth,  which  leads 
to  the  decay  of  the  teeth,  proceeds  more  rapidly 
at  night,  when  the  mouth  is  still. 

The  child  should  be  taught  to  brush  the  teeth 
from  the  gum  downward  or  upward  toward  the 
cutting  edge.  When  the  teeth  are  brushed  cross- 
wise, the  tendency  is  to  push  whatever  is  on  them 
into  the  cracks  and  crevices  of  the  teeth  or  under 
the  edges  of  the  gums.  The  inner  surfaces  of  the 
teeth  should  also  be  brushed  up  and  down,  and 
the  grinding  surfaces  should  be  scrubbed  in  all 
directions;  after  the  scrubbing  is  finished  the  mouth 
should  be  thoroughly  rinsed  with  warm  water. 

Some  hard  food,  like  a  stalk  of  celery  or  part 
of  a  ripe,  juicy  apple,  eaten  at  the  end  of  a  meal 
scours  the  surface  of  the  teeth  and  leaves  a  fresh 
clean  taste  in  the  mouth. 


Children  should  be  taken  regularly  to  a  good 
dentist  once  or  twice  a  year  after  the  first  set  of 
teeth  is  complete.  If  cavities  appear  they  should 
be  filled  with  soft  fillings,  and  each  tooth  should 
be  saved  as  long  as  possible.  If  the  temporary 
molars  are  extracted  before  the  sixth  year  molars 
come  in,  the  latter  will  be  apt  to  crowd  forward 
into  the  space  left  vacant,  and  when  the  later 
teeth  come  they  will  be  pushed  out  of  their  regular 
places,  destroying  the  natural  line  of  the  mouth. 
The  first  molars  furnish  the  grinding  surfaces  neces- 
sary to  proper  chewing  of  the  food.  If  they  fall 
out  too  soon  the  child  is  hardly  able  to  chew  hard 
or  tough  food,  and  is  likely  to  swallow  such  food 
in  chunks. 

The  care  of  the  child's  first  teeth  is  important 
also  because  the  health  of  the  permanent  set  is 
largely  dependent  upon  that  of  the  first  set.  The 
second  teeth  are  much  larger  than  the  first,  and, 
consequently,  need  more  room  in  the  gum.  For 
necessary  development  the  jaws  must  be  given 
plenty  of  exercise.  Consequently,  the  child  should 
have  a  mixed  diet,  including  some  hard  food 
which  he  cannot  swallow  without  chewing.  Toast, 
crusts,  hard  crackers,  certain  fruits,  like  apples, 
salad,  vegetables,  and  meats,  should  provide  the 
food  elements  needed  for  healthy  teeth  if  the  child 
is  thriving. 


454  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


FOOD   FOR   YOUNG   CHILDREN 

(Extracts  from  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  717,  U.   S.  Department  of  Agriculture) 

A  little  child  who  is  carefully  fed  in  accordance  with  his  bodily  needs  (as 
these  are  now  understood)  receives  every  day  at  least  one  food  from  each  of  the 
following  groups: 

1 .  Milk  and  dishes  made  chiefly  of  milk  (most  important  of 

the  group  as  regards  children's  diet)  ;  meat,  fish,  poul- 
try, eggs  and  meat  substitutes. 

2.  Bread  and  other  cereal  foods. 

3.  Butter  and  other  wholesome  fats. 

4.  Vegetables  and  fruits. 

5.  Simple  sweets. 

As  to  the  amounts  that  should  be  served,  a  good  rule  is  to  provide  three 
or  four  glasses  {\Yl  pints  to  1  quart)  of  milk  a  day;  an  egg  or  its  equivalent  in 
moderately  fat  meat,  fish,  poultry  or  meat  substitute;  fruit  and  vegetables  each 
once  a  day;  1  to  2  ounces  of  butter  or  other  wholesome  fat;  and  all  the  bread  or 
other  cereal  food  the  child  will  eat.  One  or  two  ounces  of  sugar,  candy  or  other 
sweet  (including  the  sugar  used  in  cooking)  may  also  be  allowed,  if  this  does  not 
prevent  eating  the  other  foods  mentioned. 


SUGGESTIONS  FOR  BILLS  OF  FARE 


Breakfast — Orange  (juice  only  for  the  youngest 
children).      Farina  with  milk.      Bread  and  butter. 

Apple  sauce.  Oatmeal  with  milk.  Toast  and 
butter. 

Baked  pears  (pulp  only  for  the  youngest  chil- 
dren).     Milk    toast.       Cocoa. 

Stewed  prunes  (pulp  only  for  the  youngest 
children).  Corn-meal  mush  and  milk.  Toast  and 
butter. 

Grape  fruit  (juice  only  for  the  youngest  chil- 
dren).     Milk  toast  with  grated  yolk  of  hard-boiled 

egg- 
Apple   (scraped  for  very  little  children).     Toast. 

Hot  milk. 

In    each    case    enough    milk   should    be    given   to 

make  up  the  required  daily  amount,  which  is  about 

a  quart. 

Dinner  —  Meat  soup.  Egg  on  toast.  String 
beans.     Rice  pudding. 

Roast  beef.      Baked  potato.      Asparagus.      Bread 
■  and  jelly. 


Lamb  stew  with  carrots  and  potato.  Twice- 
baked  bread.      Tapioca  custard. 

Creamed  potatoes.  Green  peas.  Stewed  plums 
with  thin   cereal-milk  pudding. 

Baked  halibut.  Boiled  potatoes.  Stewed  celery. 
Boiled   rice  with  honey  or  syrup. 

Broiled  meat  cakes.  Grits.  Creamed  carrots. 
Bread,   butter,  and   sugar  sandwiches. 

In  each  case  enough  milk  should  be  given  to 
make  up  the  required  daily  amount,  which  is  about 
a  quart. 

Supper — Baked  potatoes,  served  with  cream  and 
salt,   or  with  milk  gravy.      Cookies. 

Bread   and  milk.      Apple   sauce.      Sponge   cake. 

Potato-milk  soup.  Twice-baked  bread.  Mar- 
malade  sandwiches. 

Graham  crackers  and  milk.     Baked  custard. 

Milk  toast.      Stewed  peaches.      Cup  cake. 

Celery-milk  soup.      Toast.      Floating  island. 

In  each  case  enough  milk  should  be  given  to 
make  up  the  required  daily  amount,  which  is  about 
a   quart. 


455 


456 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 


There  are  many  variations  possible  within  the  range  of  foods  suitable  for  young 
children.  These  are  given  with  detailed  instructions  in  the  Bulletin  from  which  the  above  is 
taken.  Every  housekeeper  having  the  feeding  of  young  children  should  send  for  a  copy  of 
the  Bulletin. 

The  following  will  suggest  the  possibilities  in  this  line;  many  of  the  directions  or 
recipes  for  these  foods  will  be  found  in  the  RECIPES  Department  of  this  work,  The 
Home-Keeping  Book. 


Milk  Served  in  Various  Way* 

Bread  and  Milk 
Cereals  and  Milk 
Milk  Toast 
Cocoa 
Milk  Soups 
Milk  Vegetable  Soups 
Milk  Stew- 
Cereal  Milk  Puddings 
Rice   Pudding 
Custard  and  Other 

Milk  Puddings 
Junket 

Boiled   Custard 
Floating  Island 
Tapioca  Custard 
Baked   Custard 
Simple  Ice  Creams 


Meat,  Fish  Poultry,  Eggs  and  Meat  Substitutes 

Broiled  Chopped  Meat 

Meat  Stews 

Poultry 

Fish 

Eggs 

Coddled  Eggs 

Meat  Substitutes 

Bread  and  Other  Cereal  Foods 

Bread  and  Milk  Toast 

Twice  Baked  Bread 

Breakfast  Cereals 

Cooked  Cereal  Breakfast  Foods 

Butter,  Cream,  Table  Oil  and  Other  Fatty  Foods 

Vegetables  and  Fruits 

Simple   Sweets 


A  REVIEW  OF  THE  DAY 

At   the   close   of   the   day   the   mother   might  ask   herself   questions  like   the   following  to   make  sure 
that  she  has  taken  into  account  the  things  to  which  her  attention  has  been  directed: 

Did  the   child   take  about  a  quart  of  milk  in  one  form  or  another) 

Have    I   taken   pains   to   see   that   the   milk   that  comes  to  my  house  has  been  handled  in  a  clean  way) 

If   I  was  obliged   to  serve   skim  milk  for  the  sake    of   cleanliness   or   economy,   did   I   supply  a   little 

extra    fat    in    some    other    way) 
Were   the   fats  which  I   gave  the  child  of  the  wholesome    kind    found    in    milk,    cream,    butter,    and 

salad  oils,   or  of  the  unwholesome  kind  found  in  doughnuts  and  other  fried  foods) 
Did   I   make   good  use  of  all  skim  milk  by  using  it  in  the   preparation  of  cereal  mushes,   puddings, 

or  otherwise) 
Were  all  cereal  foods  thoroughly  cooked) 
Was   the   bread    soggy)       If  so,   was   it  because  the  loaves  were  too  large,  or  because  they  were  not 

cooked    long   enough) 
Did   I   take   pains  to   get  a  variety  of  foods  from  the   cereal   group  by  serving  a   cereal   mush  once 

during   the   day) 
Did  I   keep   in   mind  that  while  cereals  are   good    foods   in    themselves,    they   do   not   take   the   place 

of  meat,  milk,  eggs,  fruit,  and  vegetables) 
Did   I   keep   in   mind  that  children  who  do   not    have    plenty    of    fruit    and    vegetables    need    whole- 
wheat bread   and  whole   grains  served   in  other  ways) 
Did    each    child    have   an    egg   or   an    equivalent   amount   of   meat,    fish,    or  poultry) 
Did    any   child   have   more    than   this   of   flesh   foods  or  eggs)      If  so,  might  the  money  not  have  been 

better  spent  for  fruits  or  vegetables) 
If  I  was  unable  to  get  milk,  meat,  fish,  poultry,   or   eggs,   did   I   serve   dried   beans,   or   other   legumes 

thoroughly    cooked    and    carefully    seasoned) 
Were   vegetables    and    fruits   both    on    the   child's  bill  of  fare  once  during  the  day)      If  not,   was  it 

because  we  have  not   taken  pains  to   raise  them  in  our  home  garden) 


MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD— FOOD  FOR  YOUNG  CHILDREN  45  7 

Did   either  the  fruit  or  the  vegetable   disagree    with    the    child?       If   so,    ought    I    to    have    cooked    it 

more    thoroughly,    chopped    it    more    finely,   or  have  removed   the  skins  or  seeds? 
Was   the   child    given   sweets  between   meals,   or  anything  that  tempted  him  to  eat  when  he  was  not 

hungry? 
Was  he   allowed   to   eat   sweets  when   he   should    have   been   drinking    milk   or   eating   cereals,    meat, 

eggs,    fruit,    or  vegetables? 
Were   the   sweets   given  to  the  child  simple,   i.e.,    unmixed   with    much   fat   or  with   hard   substances 

difficult  to  chew,  and  not  highly  flavored? 
Was  the  child  made  to  eat  slowly  and  chew  his  food  properly? 

A  young  child  may  be  considered  well  fed  if  he  has  plenty  of  milk,  bread,  and  other  cereal  food; 
an  egg  once  a  day  or  its  equivalent  in  flesh  foods;  a  small  portion  each  of  carefully  prepared  fruits  and 
vegetables,  with  a  small  amount  of  sweet  food  after  his  appetite  for  other  foods  is  satisfied.  If  there  is 
too  much  or  too  little  of  any  of  these,  his  diet  is  one-sided. 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


458  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


CHILDREN'S  BUREAU 

(From  bulletin  of  U.  S.  Department  of  Labor,   Washington) 


FEEDING  THE   CHILD    THE    SECOND    YEAR 

Much  of  the  illness  and  suffering  among  babies  commonly  attributed  to 
the  "second  summer"  or  to  teething  is  actually  due  to  errors  in  feeding.  The  baby's 
delicate  digestive  mechanism,  accustomed  to  dealing  only  with  milk,  cannot  all  at 
once  undertake  the  task  of  adjustment  to  a  varied  diet  of  solid  foods,  but  must  be 
strengthened  by  the  gradual  addition  of  new  foods  until  the  organs  are  trained  to 
more  complicated  operations.  The  safe  rule  for  feeding  the  baby  is  to  add  but 
one  new  food  at  a  time  to  his  dietary;  to  watch  carefully  the  effect  of  each  one 
and  to  withdraw  it  and  return  to  the  simpler  diet  at  the  first  sign  of  trouble.  These 
rules  are  particularly  important  in  summer,  when  a  baby  is  more  readily  upset. 


The  following  list  shows  the  day's  meals  for  a 
baby  in  his  second  year: 

7   a.    m. — Milk,  zwieback,  toast,  or  dried  bread. 

9    a.    m. Orange  juice. 

10  a.    m. Cereal,    cup  of  milk. 

2   p.    m. — Broth,    meat,   vegetables,   stale  bread, 

baked  apple. 
6  p.   m. — Cereal,  milk,  toast  or  bread. 
10   p.   m. — Milk    (may  be   omitted). 

Milk — At  this  time  the  baby  should  be  taking 
about  one  quart  of  milk  in  24  hours;  part  of  this 
may  be  poured  over  the  cereal. 

Cereals Oatmeal  should  be  cooked  three  hours 

with  a  little  salt  in  the  water.  It  should  be 
served  without  sugar,  or  with  a  very  little  only. 
The  lighter  cereals  should  be  cooked  at  least  an 
hour.  • 

Breads — Bread  for  young  children  must  have 
been  thoroughly  baked  and  should  be  quite  dry 
when  used;  that  is,  at  least  two  days  old.  Tender 
toast  is  made  by  cutting  thin  slices  from  such  a 
loaf  and  allowing  them  to  dry  still  more,  then 
toasting  them  to  a  delicate  brown  over  a  quick 
fire.     Toast  thus  made  is  crisp  all  the  way  through 


and  may  be  used,  in  many  ways.  Many  children 
will  like  to  eat  it  broken  into  bits  in  broth  or  milk. 
Hot  breads  and  biscuits,  griddle  cakes,  and  muffins 
are  not  suitable  for  young  children. 

Fruit — The  child  may  have  a  small  portion  of 
baked  apple  or  prunes  once  a  day  in  addition  to 
his  morning  feeding  of  orange  juice.  The  apple 
should  be  baked  very  tender,  and  all  the  skin, 
seeds,  and  hard  parts  should  be  removed.  Prunes 
should  be  very  carefully  ■washed,  soaked  all  night, 
then  cooked  until  very  tender  with  very  little  sugar. 
A  small  portion  of  the  strained  pulp  may  be  given 
instead  of  apple,  and  the  juice  may  be  used  also. 

Meat The   child    may  have  about  a   tablespoon- 

ful  of  scraped  meat,  or  a  soft  boiled  or  coddled 
egg  once  a  day.  Beef,  broiled,  boiled,  or  roasted, 
the  tender  part  of  a  lamb-chop,  or  the  delicate 
meat  of  chicken  or  fish  may  be  used.  All  meat 
should  be  scraped  or  minced  very  fine,  as  no  child 
of  this  age  can  be  trusted  to   chew  it  properly. 

Vegetables — A  small  portion  of  some  properly 
cooked  green  vegetables,  like  spinach  or  tender 
string  beans,  may  be  given.  Such  vegetables 
should  be  fresh.  They  should  be  cooked,  then 
drained  and  mashed  or  strained  through  a  colander. 


459 


460 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 


FEEDING  THE  CHILD  OF  THREE 

(Bulletin,  Children's  Bureau) 

At  the  beginning  of  the  third  year  the  child's  diet  may  be  increased  by 
adding  more  solid  food,  especially  meats  and  vegetables.  According  to  the  U.  S. 
Department  of  Agriculture,  every  healthy  child  of  three  should  have  at  least  one 
food  a  day  from  each  of  the  following  five  groups: 

1 .  Milk  and  dishes  made  chiefly  of  milk  (most  important  of 

this  group  in  children's  diet)  ;    meat,   fish,  poultry,   and 
eggs. 

2.  Bread  and  other  cereal  foods. 

3.  Butter  and  other  wholesome  fats. 

4.  Vegetables  and  fruits. 

5.  Simple  sweets. 


The  meats  should  be  beef,  boiled,  broiled,  or 
roasted;  lamb  chops;  the  white  meat  of  chicken  or 
delicate  fish.  All  meat  should  be  free  from  fat, 
gristle,  or  bone  and  finely  minced  when  given  to 
the  child. 

Eggs  should  be  very  soft  boiled,  coddled,  or 
poached,  or  soft  scrambled.  Fried  eggs  should 
never  be  given  to  a  child;  but  the  grated  or  mashed 
yolk  of  a  very  hard  boiled  egg  may  sometimes  be 
used. 

Meat  broths  made  from  mutton,  beef,  or  chicken 
have  little  nutriment,  but  if  these  are  thickened 
with  arrowroot  or  cornstarch,  and  especially  if 
milk  is  added,  they  become  a  valuable  food  Well- 
cooked  vegetables,  strained  and  added  to  warm 
milk,  are  not  only  good  foods  but  serve  to  teach 
the  child  to  like   vegetables. 

Cereals  should  be  thoroughly  cooked  and  served 
with  milk  or  thin  cream  and  a  very  small  amount 
of  sugar   or   none. 

Bread  for  a  child  should  be  at  least  two  days 
old.  Toast,  zwieback,  or  hard  crackers  may  be 
given  once  or  twice  a  day. 

Baked    potatoes    moistened    with    a    little    butter. 


thin    cream,    beef    juice,    or    platter    gravy    may    be 
given. 

Asparagus  tips,  spinach,  stewed  celery,  squash, 
string  beans,  carrots,  young  peas,  well-cooked  and 
mashed,  or  put  through  a  puree  sieve,  are  all  good 
for  a  child.  A  small  portion  of  one  of  these  vege- 
tables may  be  a  part  of  the  child's  dinner  each 
day. 

Fruits  should  be  continually  used.  At  this  age 
sweet  oranges,  baked  apples,  or  stewed  prunes  are 
most  useful.  The  juice  or  mashed  pulp  of  fresh 
ripe  pears  or  peaches  may  be  given  in  the  third 
year,  but  there  is  much  danger  in  using  overripe 
or  green  fruit,  as  ■well  as  in  giving  too  much.  It 
is  especially  necessary  to  be  careful  in  hot  weather 
when  fresh  fruit  decays  rapidly.  Bananas  should 
never  be  given  to  a  young  child.        • 

A  child  under  4  years  of  age  should  never  have 
dried  or  salted  meats,  sausage,  pork,  game,  liver, 
kidney,  goose,  or  duck.  Fried  and  raw  vegetables, 
hot  fresh  breads,  cakes,  and  pastries,  salads,  candy, 
syrups,  tea,  coffee,  beer,  cider,  and  soda  water  are 
all  unsuitable  foods  for  a  child. 


MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD— FEEDING  THE  CHILD  461 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


462 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 


FEEDING  THE  CHILD  OF  FOUR. 

(Bulletin,  Children's  Bureau) 

During  the  fourth  year,  milk  still  remains  an  important  part  of  the  child's 
food,  but  much  of  it  may  now  be  given  in  the  form  of  bread  and  milk,  milk  soups, 
or  milk  puddings,  or  it  may  be  poured  over  the  cereal.  Some  children  object  to 
drinking  milk,  and  in  such  cases  it  is  wise  to  offer  it  under  some  such  disguise. 
The  cereal  need  no  longer  be  strained,  but  must  be  very  thoroughly  cooked. 


The  diet  at  this  time  should  include  all  the  ar- 
ticles advised  for  the  two  earlier  years,  with  the 
addition,  of  more  meats,  vegetables,  and  fruits. 
Baked  potatoes,  with  a  little  butter,  are  a  staple 
food  at  this  period.  Bread  and  butter,  or  toast 
and  butter,  and  plenty  of  hard  crusts  or  zwieback 
are  important.  Eggs  or  meat,  such  as  roasted, 
boiled,  or  broiled  beef,  mutton,  chicken  or  fish, 
should  be   given   at  least  once  a  day. 

The  child  of  four  will  probably  thrive  on  three 
or  four  meals  a  day,  the  heaviest  being  taken  in 
the  middle  of  the  day.  If  he  appears  to  be  hungry, 
a  light  lunch,  such  as  milk,  may  be  given  in  the 
interval  between  breakfast  and  dinner,  or  between 
dinner  and  supper,  but  no  nibbling  should  be  per- 
mitted between  meals.  A  child  should  be  taught 
to  come  to  the  table  with  that  vigorous  appetite 
for  his  food  which  leads  to  good  digestion  and 
assimilation. 

Food  should  be  carefully  prepared  to  fit  it  to  a 
child's  powers  and  should  be  served  in  an  appe- 
tizing fashion  at  proper  intervals.  Young  children 
should  not  be  offered  "tastes"  of  the  family  meals, 
as  this  habit  tends  to  destroy  the  appetite  for  the 
simple,   rather  restricted  diet  adapted  to  their  need. 

Children  should  have  an  abundance  of  pure,  cool 
drinking  water.  This  is  especially  important  in 
summer,  when  they  are  perspiring  freely.  If  there 
is  any  doubt  about  the  purity  of  the  water  it  should 
be  filtered  or  boiled,   or  both. 

Since  it  is  always  difficult  for  children  to  chew 
their    food    properly,    it    should    be    finely    minced. 


mashed,  or  softened  for  them  throughout  these 
early   years. 

Never  under  any  circumstances  should  children 
be  given  coffee,  tea,  or  strong  cocoa.  They  should 
have  no  highly  seasoned  or  spiced  foods,  rich 
pastries,  raw  vegetables,  onions,  corn,  or  cabbage. 
Bananas  and  all  partly  ripened  fruit  are  apt  to 
make   trouble. 

If  children  are  inclined  to  be  constipated,  they 
should  have  plenty  of  laxative  foods.  These  are 
cereals,  particularly  oatmeal;  the  coarser  breads, 
such  as  Graham  and  whole  wheat;  fruit  and  fruit 
juice,  particularly  oranges  and  prunes;  and  vege- 
tables like  string  beans,  asparagus,  and  spinach. 

Many  children  suffer  from  malnutrition;  that  is, 
they  fail  to  secure  the  food  materials  they  need  for 
development  and  growth,  and,  consequently,  they 
are  undersized,  pale,  often  slow  and  listless,  and 
do  not  show  the  eager,  alert  habits  of  healthy 
children.  Malnutrition  may  be  due  to  lack  of 
sufficient  food  of  any  kind,  to  improper  food,  bad 
cooking,  or  some  fault  of  digestion,  or  to  illness 
which  makes  it  impossible  for  the  child  properly 
to   utilize   the   food   he  eats. 

It  is  a  wise  precaution,  therefore,  if  children  are 
out  of  sorts,  have  decayed  teeth,  bad  breath,  or 
seem  tired  and  disinclined  to  play,  to  have  them 
examined  by  a  good  doctor,  and  to  take  all  the 
trouble  necessary  to  get  them  into  sound  eating 
habits.  The  neglect  of  these  early  symptoms  may 
mean  a  lifetime  of  only  partial  health  and  efficiency. 


MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD— FEEDING  THE  CHILD 


463 


FEEDING   THE   CHILD   OF   SIX 

(Iowa  State  College  Bulletin) 

Children  need  mineral  matter  to  build  strong  bones  and  good  teeth.  Do 
not  handicap  them  for  life  by  neglecting  to  supply  these  important  food  sub- 
stances. / 

Eggs  and  milk  are  valuable  muscle  building  foods.  A  quart  of  milk  a 
day  included  in  the  diet  will  help  a  child  to  make  normal  growth. 

The  child  beginning  school  should  be  carefully  watched  to  see  that  he  keeps 
up  to  a  normal  standard  of  health  under  the  new  conditions. 

A  child  should  be  taught : 

To  chew  his  food  thoroughly. 

Not  to  touch  food  with  dirty  hands. 

Not   to   eat   foods   that   have  been  exposed  to  dust  and  flies. 

To  use  his  own  drinking  cup. 


FOODS  SUITABLE  FOR  THE  CHILD  OF  SIX 

Breakfast — Cereals  with  cream,  eggs  (not  fried), 
stewed  fruits,  oranges,  toast  (dry  or  milk),  rice 
with   cream,    bacon. 

Protein    Foods Creamed    eggs,     macaroni    with 

cheese,  creamed  potatoes  with  peanuts,  chicken, 
beef,    mutton,    creamed    codfish. 

Vegetables  —  Baked  potatoes,  lettuce,  carrots, 
creamed  onions,  green  peas,  string  beans,  as- 
paragus. 

Desserts Junket,     custard,     rice    pudding,    plain 

ice  cream,  sponge  cake,  plain  cookies,  fruit  jelly, 
fruit   gelatin   with   cream,    fresh  fruits. 

FOODS  RICH  IN  MINERALS 

Eggs,  milk,  spinach,  pea  puree  (dried  peas), 
celery,  ground  raisins,  prunes,  whole  wheat  bread, 
nut  bread    (whole   wheat),    cauliflower. 


SUGGESTIVE  MENUS 

Breakfast Stewed    prunes,    oatmeal    and    cream. 

toast,    milk. 

Baked  apple,   rice   with  cream,   bacon,   toast. 
Orange,    poached   egg,    milk  toast. 

Dinner  —  Cream  celery  soup,  baked  chicken, 
baked   potato,    fruit    gelatin. 

Macaroni  with  cheese,  spinach,  whole  wheat 
bread,   baked  custard. 

Mutton  broth  with  rice,  creamed  carrots,  lettuce 
salad,    Graham   bread,    fresh   fruit. 

Supper Creamed     toast,     sponge     cake,     apple 

sauce. 

Cream  potato  soup,  bread  and  butter,  cookies, 
junket. 

Creamed  codfish  on  toast,  whole  wheat  bread, 
stewed   raisins. 


464         THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


MOTHER,   BABY,   CHILD— CLOTHING  FOR  THE  CHILD 


465 


CLOTHES    FOR    THE    GROWING    CHILD 

(U.   S.   Department  of  Labor,   Children's  Bureau) 

Very  much  of  the  comfort  of  a  child  depends  upon  his  having  the  right  kind 
of  clothing.  This  is  especially  true  in  summer.  One  hot  day  a  mother  came  into 
an  infant-welfare  station  in  a  large  city  bringing  a  screaming  baby  who  would  not 
be  pacified.  The  trained  and  sympathetic  eye  of  the  nurse  in  charge  saw  that  the 
little  feet  were  covered  with  knitted  woolen  socks.  She  asked  the  mother  to  take 
them  off.  Immediately  the  screams  ceased  and  the  baby  stretched  his  naked  feet  in 
delight  at  being  relieved  of  the  intolerable  irritation. 


During  the  hot  months,  children  should  wear 
just  as  little  clothing  as  possible.  Babies  require 
only  a  diaper  and  one  other  garment,  while  run- 
about babies  and  children  up  to  five  will  be  amply 
clothed  in  waist  and  drawers,  with  one  outer  gar- 
ment, preferably  a  cotton  slip,  apron,  or  rompers, 
or  one  of  the  many  similar  garments  illustrated  in 
the   pattern   books. 

The  one-piece  dress  is  a  great  boon  to  busy 
mothers,  being  easy  to  make  and  to  wash  and 
iron.  If  the  kimono  sleeve  is  used,  the  dress  will 
be  cooler,  but  in  some  garments  the  set-in  sleeve 
is  less  clumsy  and  wears  better.  Rompers,  loose 
at  the  knee  and  low-necked  and  short-sleeved,  may 
be  used  for  little  girls  and  boys  alike.  Denim 
overalls  are  rather  cumbersome  for  the  hottest 
weather   but   are    adapted   to    cool   days. 

Starched,  frilled,  and  fussy  garments  are  all 
alike  unsuitable  for  young  children,  whose  clothing 
should  be  such  as  will  make  them  perfectly  com- 
fortable and  permit  the  freest  play.  No  child 
should  have  to  think  of  his  garments  during  the 
play  hours;  he  should,  of  course,  be  subject  to 
reasonable  restrictions  upon  wilful  or  mischievous 
soiling   or   destruction    of  his   clothing. 


Cotton  is  the  best  material  for  outside  garments, 
since  a  child  of  this  age  should  have  no  clothes 
that  cannot  be  washed.  Mothers  disagree  as  to 
the  comparative  merits  of  white  clothing  and  col- 
ored. White  garments  may  be  boiled,  and  thus 
the  amount  of  rubbing  necessary  to  get  them  clean 
is  very  greatly  lessened.  On  the  other  hand,  white 
dresses  are  soiled  almost  as  soon  as  the  child  be- 
gins to  play  out  of  doors.  It  must  be  remembered 
that  while  white  or  light  colors  show  the  soil 
sooner,  there  may  be  just  as  much  actual  dirt  on 
the  darker  ones.  It  must  also  be  remembered  that 
light  colors  like  blue,  green,  lavender,  or  pink  are 
almost  certain  to  fade  unless  they  are  washed  with 
special  care.  Striped  and  check  ginghams  fade 
less  than  plain  materials,  but  often  shrink  badly  in 
washing.  Such  materials  should  be  shrunk  before 
being  made  up.  Seersucker  and  cotton  crepe  ma- 
terials of  many  kinds  have  the  great  advantage  of 
needing  no  ironing.  These  rough  materials  are  not 
very  cool,  and  if  used  for  summer  wear  should 
have  short  sleeves  and  round  neck  to  avoid  chafing 
of  the  skin  of  the  arms  and  neck.  Percale,  galatea, 
madras,  and  the  better  grades  of  gingham  or  dress 
linen  are  all  good  materials  for  children's  clothes. 
For  hot  weather  almost  any  of  the  thin  materials 
may  be  used. 


466  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  IX— MOTHER,  BABY,  CHILD 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


i. 


-^\ 


HP 


^sate% 


SECTION  X. 


£s£ 


■i 


Q 


Vr'rt 


53  to 


THE  INDOOR  GARDEN 

ICUT  FLOWERS 


d 


c&° 


Every    house    should    have    growing    things  ^ 
within.     Where  it  is  possible  to  have  an  outdoor  gar- 
den, one  confronts,  of  course,  unlimited  possibilities 
which  embrace  a  study  in  themselves. 

When  one  is  confined  to  indoor  gardening,  however, 
it  is  astonishing  how  much   may  be   accomplished.      This 
most  naturally  and  conveniently  takes  the  form  of  the  win- 
vy\  dow  box,  sun  room  box,  or  perhaps  piazza  box ;  it  is  a  constant  source 

of  surprise  to  work  out  how  much  can  be  grown  in  these  to  add  to 
the  charm  of  a  home  and  make  it  seem  that  some  of  "God's  out-of- 
doors"  has  been  brought  within. 

The  boxes  are  heavy  when  filled  with  earth,  hence  should  be  made  not  too 
large.  It  is  better  to  place  two  boxes  end  to  end  to  fill  a  long  space.  They  should 
be  supported  through  with  strong  brackets.  There  must  be  holes  in  the  bottom 
for  drainage,  or  the  earth  will  turn  "sour ; "  there  must  be,  therefore,  a  pan  or 
other  means  to  catch  the  drain  and  either  carry  it  off  or  hold  it  until  it  dries  or  is 
mopped  up.  The  boxes  should  be  painted  every  two  years — the  color  of  the  house 
or  other  woodwork  next  them,  as  it  is  the  flowers  which  we  want  to  "stand  out"  for 
notice,  not  the  receptacles. 

In  the  bottom  of  the  boxes  should  be  an  inch  layer  of  gravel,  charcoal, 
broken  up  flower  pots  or  other  coarse  material;  charcoal  is  best,  as  it  helps  sweeten 
the  soil.  The  soil  should  be  sifted;  it  should  be  obtained  from  a  florist  or  should 
be  made  up  of  a  mixture  of  humus,  fine  sand,  rich  garden  soil  and  old  stable  dress- 
ing, well  rotted  from  the  cow  barn.  Sods  may  be  overturned  and  the  soil  scraped 
therefrom,  instead  of  garden  soil ;  and  bone  meal  is  even  better  than  stable  dressing. 
The  garden  soil  should  make  up  about  half  the  quantity,  humus  about  a  fourth, 
sand  and  fertilizer  in  smaller  amounts.  Wood  ashes  or  chimney  soot  may  be  added, 
but  not  coal  ashes.  The  whole  should  be  well  mixed  and  by  frequent  turning  ex- 
posed to  light  and  rain  and  much  sun,  to   "season"  somewhat  before  using. 

Set  the  edge  plants  first,  those  chosen  to  droop  over  the  sides,  such  as  peri- 
winkle, sweet  alyssium,  moneywort,  etc.  If  the  plants  to  be  set  in  a  bed  are  of 
uneven  growth,  place  the  taller  ones  at  the  ends,  especially  if  a  window  box. 

467 


468        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  X— INDOOR  GARDEN,  CUT  FLOWERS 

The  plants  to  select  depend  upon  your  own  taste,  but  the  background  can- 
not be  disregarded.  On  a  gray  house,  red  geraniums  look  well,  or  there  are  fine 
shades  in  pink  and  salmon.  These  colors  do  not  look  well  together ;  only  strongly 
contrasted  colors  do,  and  not  always  these — white  and  red  geraniums  are  too 
strong  a  contrast,  while  white  goes  well  with  pink.  White  flowers  look  especially 
well  in  window  boxes  in  the  evening,  when  they  shine  out  brightly  in  the  dusky 
light. 

Flowers  and  Children — Possibly  the  city  child  finds  growing  plants  a  more  wonderful 
something  than  the  child  of  the  country,  but  a  window  box  in  the  nursery  is  an  unfailing 
delight  to  any  child — and  the  child  may  be  taught  to  water  and  tend  it;  and  little  formal 
gardens,  Japanese  or  others,  may  be  obtained  from  any  city  florist,  all  ready  to  transport 
bodily  to  the  home,  for  nursery  or  for  the  living  room.  Tiny  ones  for  the  dining  table  are 
becoming  more  and  more  frequently  seen,  perhaps  one  of  the  most  charming  table  decora- 
tions it  is  possible  to  have. 

Bulbs  Indoors — Bulbs  planted  and  grown  at  home  are  far  more  satisfactory  than 
those  bought  ready  to  blossom.  The  latter  have  usually  been  "forced,"  are  not  hardy  and 
will  wither  under  any  slightly  adverse  conditions.  Buy  large  bulbs,  not  small  ones;  the 
latter  cannot  be  forced  and  will  not  make  large,  attractive  plants;  all  the  care  you  can  give 
them  will  not  bring  forth  more  blossoms  than  are  inherently  in  them. 

Bulbs  run  through  quite  a  list;  tulips,  daffodils,  jonquils,  narcissus,  crocuses,  and 
Roman  and  Dutch  hyacinths.  Consult  florist  from  whom  you  buy  as  to  how  many  of  a  given 
variety  to  plant  in  a  given  sized  pot  or  box  and  the  time  required  for  them  to  grow  and 
blossom;  then  select  a  variety  so  planned  and  planted  that  one  will  follow  another  and 
you  will  have  some  abloom  throughout  all  the  season.  The  florist  will  also  instruct  you  as 
to  soiling  and  which  bulbs  require  much  or  little  watering  when  in  their  growing  stage. 

When  you  plant  them  for  rooting,  label  them.  Put  them  in  a  dark  closet.  Water 
occasionally  if  the  soil  and  bulbs  seem  dry.  Some  varieties  will  root  in  two  weeks;  others 
require  up  to  four  weeks.  When  removed  from  the  dark  closet,  put  them  in  a  dull  light, 
to  start  their  growth  slowly;  forced  in  a  strong  light  they  will  make  all  foliage  and  no 
blossoms.     Leave  them  in  the  dull  light  for  a  week  or  ten  days. 

When  you  transfer  to  the  window,  give  them  a  sunny  room  but  not  the  direct  sun 
all  the  time.  If  forced  too  fast,  by  too  much  bright  sun  and  too  warm  a  room,  they  make 
long,  spindly  trunks  and  all  leaves,  with  few  blossoms,  and  they  do  not  last  as  long  as  those 
grown  more  normally. 

The  Chinese  lilies  grown  in  water  are  treated  about  the  same  as  bulbs  grown  in 
soil.  Rocks  or  pebbles  in  the  water  are  to  hold  them  in  position  and  give  their  roots  some- 
thing to  grasp;  the  pebbles  do  not  nourish  them.  Smooth,  clean,  fairly  large  pebbles  an 
inch  or  more  in  size  are  best. 

All  Flowers  grown  in  a  gas  lighted  room,  or  a  room  with  a  gas  heater  without  out- 
side vent  pipe,  or  in  a  very  hot  room  of  "dry"  heat,  are  sensitive,  do  not  do  so  well  as 
otherwise,  and  positively  must  have  their  "faces  washed"  (the  foliage  washed  down  thor- 
oughly)  every  day  or  two. 

Ferns  and  Kindred  Plants — Ferns  will  keep  in  furnace  heated  rooms  if  sufficiently 

and  properly  watered.      The  Boston  fern  is  one  of  the  best  for  the  purpose. 

Horseradish  does  well  and  looks  well  until  it  gets  too  large  and  harsh;  it  grows 
rapidly  and  is  beautiful  when  young. 


INDOOR  GARDEN,  CUT  FL  OWERS— MISCELLANEOUS  469 

Parsley  does  well  in  window  boxes  and  is  decorative  both  there  and  on  the  meat 
platter.  Some  varieties  of  mint  do  well,  especially  mentha,  which  is  also  used  for  a  delicious 
adjunct  to  iced  drinks. 

Beyond  the  above  the  possibilities  of  indoor  gardening  run  into  opportunities  of 
almost  countless  variety  to  one  who  will  take  up  the  art  and  study  it  out.  The  items  here 
are  only  to  give  one  a  fair  start  along  the  lines  simplest  and  easiest  for  beginners. 

There  are  wonderful  possibilities  in  common  carrots,  and  radishes  and  even  beets 
are  decorative  as  well  as  useful.  Nasturtiums  and  geraniums,  heliotrope,  mignonette,  prim- 
roses, morning  glories,  pansies,  violets,  foliage,  asparagus,  petunias — all  are  readily  grown 
in  window  boxes  both  'within  and  without  the  casement. 

Simple,  Homely  "Hanging"  Plants — For  a  boy  who  loves  an  experiment,  take  a 
fat  carrot  and  cut  off  its  tail.  Of  course,  the  grocer  has  already  cut  off  its  head.  Now 
scrape  an  opening  in  the  top  about  as  large  as  a  good  sized  spool.  Pierce  the  rim  of  the 
opening  at  three  equi-distant  points  and  run  a  string  through  each  hole,  catching  the  three 
strings  together  to  form  a  miniature  hanging  basket.  Hang  it  in  a  sunny  window  and  fill  it 
with  water.  Keep  it  filled — and  you  will  be  rewarded  with  an  adorable  green  fernery  which 
will  sprout  from  the  outside  and  entirely  hide  the  carrot  itself. 

Here's  another  hanging  basket:  Put  a  small  sweet  potato  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle. 
Cut  a  hole  in  a  sponge  large  enough  for  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  to  come  through.  In  all  the 
little  holes  of  the  sponge  sow  rice  or  bird  seed.  Hang  it  in  a  dark  place  by  strings  to  the 
neck  of  the  bottle,  until  all  have  sprouted.  Put  in  a  sunny  window  and  train  the  potato 
vine  around  the  strings. 


470       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  X— INDOOR  GARDEN,  CUT  FLOWERS 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


THE   DECORATIVE   USE   OF   FLOWERS 

Being  Extracts  from  Bulletin  Under  the  Above  Title  Issued  as  Farm  House  Series,   No.   8, 
Cornell  Reading  Course,  State  Department  of  Agriculture,  Ithaca,  N.  Y. 

With  no  consideration  of  the  part  that  structure  and  odor  of  flowers  play 
in  the  perpetuation  of  plants,  or  their  value  as  reservoirs  of  honey  or  as  store- 
houses of  medicine,  this  lesson  deals  with  only  their  aesthetic  service,  "To 
minister  delight  to  man,  to  beautify  the  earth." 

The  term  flowers,  as  used  in  the  title  of  this  lesson,  refers  not  only  to  blos- 
soms, but  to  leaves,  berries,  seed  packs,  and  any  other  form  of  plant  life  that  has 
decorative  qualities.  An  arrangement  of  flowers  may  be  a  work  of  art  in  which 
every  essential  of  design  in  form  and  color  may  be  exemplified. 

TO  KEEP  FLOWERS 

In  order  that  flowers  may  keep,  as  well  as  to  protect  the  plants,  flowers  should  be 
cut,  not  picked  nor  "pulled,"  preferably  in  the  morning  or  the  evening.  When  cut  they 
should  be  plunged  as  soon  as  possible  into  deep  water  and  allowed  to  stand  in  a  cool  room 
or  cellar  for  two  or  three  hours  before  they  are  arranged.  If  some  time  elapses  before  they 
are  arranged,  it  is  better  to  snip  the  ends  of  the  stems  again.  They  should  be  placed  so 
that  the  blossoms  are  supported,  especially  if  they  are  fragile;  often  long-stemmed  blossoms 
will  keep  much  longer  if   "rested"   in  this  way  during  the  night. 

Flowers  stay  fresh  much  longer  if  the  temperature  in  which  they  are  grown  can  be 
maintained.  Sometimes  such  flowers  as  heliotrope  and  dahlias  will  keep  much  longer  if  the 
stems  are  thrust  into  boiling  water  or  into  a  direct  flame  for  a  moment,  and  immediately 
after  plunged  into  cold  water.      Green  branches  cut  in  winter  should  be  placed  in  ice  water. 

Flowers  keep  fresh  longer  if  the  leaves  below  the  water  are  removed,  for  the  decay- 
ing vegetable  matter  poisons  the  water.  If  glass  vases  are  used  it  would  not,  of  course,  be 
advisable  to  strip  the  leaves  from  the  stems,  but  the  water  should  be  changed  very  fre- 
quently. The  ends  of  the  stems  should  not  rest  on  the  bottom  of  the  container.  With  a 
large  surface  of  water  exposed  to  the  air  flowers  will  remain  fresh  longer  than  when  the 
surface  is  small  and  confined. 

EFFECTIVE   PLACING 

The  placing  of  an  arrangement  of  flowers  often  determines  its  form;  therefore  the 
position  it  is  to  occupy  should  be  considered  from  the  first.  The  observer's  point  of  view 
should  influence  the  arrangement.  Some  plants  look  their  best  in  a  jar  placed  on  the  floor. 
Pond  lilies  never  look  so  well  as  when  floating  in  a  shallow  dish  on  a  taboret  or  a  stand 
that  is  lower  than  an  ordinary  table.  Some  plants  or  bouquets  are  most  attractive  when 
placed  on  a  window  sill  and  silhouetted  against  the  light.  White  lilies  or  golden  glow  light 
up  a  dark  corner  effectively.  Drooping  branches  or  vines  arrange  themselves  naturally  when 
placed  on  a  mantelpiece  or  in  baskets  or  other  receptacles  hung  against  the  wall.  Various 
flowers  suit  various  moods,  different  occasions,  different  rooms.  The  flowers  that  supply  the 
most  charming  and  intimate  features  of  the  home  breakfast  table  would  probably  be  out  of 
place  at  a  banquet. 

TABLE   DECORATION 

No  phase  of  flower  arrangement  is  more  constantly  recurring  than  that  of  table 
decoration.  Beauty  resides  in  quality  rather  than  in  quantity,  and  it  is  often  more  in  evi- 
dence when  stem  and  leaf  and  growth  are  seen  than  when  these  have  been  obliterated  by 


471 


472        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  X— INDOOR  GARDEN,  CUT  FLOWERS 

a  mere  mass  of  color.  Table  decoration  should  be  so  low  that  conversation  may  be  gen- 
eral, and  so  that  persons  sitting  opposite  each  other  need  not  play  hide  and  seek.  Flowers 
with  a  very  delicate  odor,  or  with  no  odor  at  all,  should  be  selected  for  the  table.  There 
may  be  either  a  central  arrangement  or  something  at  each  plate,  or,  for  a  very  special  occa- 
sion, a  combination  of  both.  Little  flat  water  cups  cost  only  forty  cents  a  dozan  and  are 
very  appropriate  for  certain  flowers.  For  a  small  table  there  may  be  a  central  arrangement 
and  others  that  are  subordinate.  The  shape  of  the  centerpiece  should  repeat  the  shape  of 
the  table;  it  should  be  round  for  a  round  table,  or  long  and  narrow  if  the  table  is  that  shape. 
The  color  of  the  flowers  should  harmonize  with  the  color  of  the  china  and  of  the  room. 

The  decorations  should  be  appropriate  to  the  occasion  and  should  reflect  its  spirit. 
Forget-me-nots,  daisies,  and  buttercups  are  suitable  for  the  child's  birthday;  rosebuds,  wild 
clematis,  or  virgin's  bower,  sweet  peas  and  daffodils  for  a  young  girl,  unless  lilies,  marigolds, 
black-eyed  susans,  peach  blossoms,  iris  or  other  flowers  in  season  happen  to  have  a  happier 
significance.  Bride's  roses,  lilies  of  the  valley,  apple,  peach,  or  any  other  fruit  blossoms, 
are  a  good  selection  for  the  bride.  For  the  mother's  birthday,  violets,  many  of  the  roses, 
and  other  flowers,  among  which  her  favorites  should  be  given  first  choice,  would  be  appro- 
priate. Bachelor's  buttons,  sweet  williams,  or  johnny-jump-ups  may  suitably  celebrate  the 
young  man's  coming  of  age.  Laurel,  oak  leaves,  chrysanthemums  (a  court  flower)  and  other 
stately  blossoms  would  be  appropriate  decorations  for  a  dinner. 

MANNER  OF  ARRANGEMENT 

The  decorative  elements  in  plants  are  line,  form  and  color.  Those  plants  whose 
chief  attraction  is  in  form  or  line  should  be  used  singly  or  in  small  groups,  so  that  these 
qualities  may  be  seen  to  best  advantage.  Those  whose  pre-eminent  attraction  is  their 
color  may  be  massed.  Those  which  are  thrice  blessed,  possessing  beauty  of  form,  line  and 
color,  may  be  arranged  singly,  in  small  groups,  or  in  large  masses,  according  to  the  charac- 
teristic to  be  emphasized  or  the  place  and  purpose  for  which  they  are  chosen. 

Line  is  the  dominant  attribute  of  goldenrod.  One  stem,  or  at  most  three,  is  more 
effective  than  a  large  mass.  When  goldenrod  is  bunched  in  the  usual  manner,  the  forceful 
grace  of  its  wandlike  stem  is  lost  entirely;  also  the  greenish-yellow  of  the  flowers  as  seen 
in  mass  is  disappointing. 

In  orchids,  lilies  and  iris,  form  is  the  chief  element  of  beauty  and  should  have  first 
consideration.      Such  flowers  should  never  be  massed. 

Color  is  the  dominant  attraction  in  pansies,  sweet  peas,  violets,  and  nasturtiums; 
therefore,  the  more  of  these  the  better.  Peonies  are  difficult  to  arrange  simply  and  singly 
and  are  much  more  splendid  when  massed. 

In  many  plants  form  and  color  are  both  so  attractive  that  the  plant  may  be  selected 
for  either  characteristic,  but  in  the  decorative  arrangement  one  idea  should  be  dominant. 

The  rose  is  one  of  the  best  examples  of  threefold  adaptability.  One  long-stemmed 
rose  in  a  slender  vase,  which  will  keep  it  in  position,  is  a  thing  of  beauty  in  line  which  should 
give  joy  to  a  whole  household;  a  group  of  three  at  different  stages  of  opening,  with  their 
leaves,  is  an  example  of  beauty  of  form  which  would  furnish  a  noble  decoration;  and  a 
mass  of  full-blown  roses  would  present  a  glory  of  color  which  might  well  be  the  special 
decorative  feature  at  a  wedding,  a  graduation,  or  a  church  service  in  June.  The  chrysan- 
themum and  the  poppy  are  almost  equally  adaptable. 

In  some  cases  foliage  is  the  attractive  feature,  and  it  possesses  the  same  elements 
of  line,  form  and  color.  Rushes  and  grasses  are  lovely  in  line.  Some  varieties  of  oak  are 
so  impressive  in  form  that  they  should  be  arranged  so  that  the  shape  of  each  leaf  in  the 
spray  should  be  seen.  The  acanthus  and  the  ivy  have  furnished  inspiration  for  genera- 
tions of  sculptors.      The  begonias  and  many  varieties  of  autumn  foliage  rival  flowers  in  bril- 


INDOOR  GARDEN,  CUT  FLOWERS— DECORATIVE  USE  473 

liancy  of  color;  more  often,  however,  foliage  is  the  background  and  should  be  subordinate 
to  flowers.  In  many  cases  it  is  necessary  to  remove  some  of  the  leaves  so  that  they  do  not 
compete  with  the  flowers  in  interest.  Carnations  should  preferably  be  arranged  with  their 
own  foliage.  Often  they  come  from  the  florist  accompanied  by  asparagus  or  sword  ferns, 
a  combination  incongruous  in  both  form  and  color.  Perhaps  some  day  a  lover  of  carnations 
will  develop  a  variety  of  them  profuse  in  leafage  and  will  grow  it  to  furnish  foliage  for  the 
flowering  varieties. 

Nature  is  very  careful  about  the  foliage  she  uses  with  flowers,  and  uses  a  different 
green  with  white  lilacs  from  the  one  she  uses  with  the  colored  species.  At  times  she  sends 
the  flowers  before  the  leaves,  as  in  the  case  of  the  azaleas  and  many  of  the  fruit  blossoms, 
so  that  the  contrasting  character  of  the  erratic  stems  is  not  missed.  There  are  always  leaves 
when  violets  and  sweet  peas  and  nasturtiums  bloom.  Fewer  blossoms  with  a  little  of  the 
foliage  make  a  much  more  attractive  arrangement  than  a  mass  of  blossoms  and  no  leaves. 
Even  though  buds  must  be  picked  with  the  blossoms  in  order  to  secure  enough  foliage,  it 
should  be  considered  no  sacrifice  since  they,  too,  contribute  to  the  general  effect. 

The  nature  of  the  plant  growth  should  suggest  the  manner  of  arrangement.  Branches 
of  trees  should  be  arranged  so  that  their  strong,  rugged  character  is  preserved.  Vines 
should  appear  to  run  or  droop  or  climb.  When  grace  and  delicacy  distinguish  plants  these 
characteristics  should  not  be  lost  in  arrangement. 

Whole  plants,  such  as  the  primrose,  the  cyclamen,  and  many  bulbs,  such  as  daffo- 
dils, jonquils,  and  tulips,  furnish  a  ready-made  arrangement  difficult  to  equal.  Violets  or 
hepaticas,  ripple  grass  or  dandelions,  carefully  selected  and  sometimes  judiciously  pruned, 
are  charming.  One  bit  of  sod  from  a  New  England  pasture  has  been  known  to  furnish  ten 
varieties  of  plants,  and  is  a  wild  garden  in  itself.  Taken  early  in  March  and  brought  into 
the  favoring  warmth  of  the  house,  it  is  a  prophecy  of  the  spring  easily  read  by  a  family  of 
children,  who  receive  thereby  a  vision  of  the  beauty  of  a  little  grass  plant  not  so  easily  per- 
ceived when  the  plants  come  in  battalions. 


474       THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  X— INDOOR  GARDEN,  CUT  FLOWERS 


CARE   OF  FLOWERS  AND  PLANTS 


Insects With   regard   to   potted   plants  generally 

one  should  chase  the  wooly  white  mealy  bugs  and 
little  red  ants  away  with  a  toothpick.  Drown  the 
red   spider  with  a  squirt  gun. 

If  bugs  and  spiders  shatter  your  preparedness 
program,  cut  plants  off  within  an  inch  of  their 
lives  and  throw  them  away.      They'll  grow  again. 

The  green  flies,  which  are  not  so  green  as  they 
look,  won't  bother  your  plants  if  you  keep  them 
well  bathed  and  fed the  plants,   not  the  flies. 

When  a  fern  turns  yellow,  slice  a  raw  potato 
and  put  it  on  top  of  soil;  this  will  draw  out  the 
worms,  which  are   generally  the   cause. 

Ammonia  water  applications  are  good  for  plants 
that  do  not  seem  to  thrive.  Soapy  water  is  also 
good  for  the  soil  about  plants. 

Ivy — The  hardy  ground  ivy  will  thrive  in  almost 
any  situation,  even  in  a  room  not  always  well 
lighted.  Select  two  or  three  pieces  of  ivy,  each 
about  a  yard  in  length,  place  the  ends  in  a  two- 
quart  jar  kept  filled  with  water.  Twine  the  plant 
about  the  pedestal  of  a  statue. 

Rubber  Plants  need  a  sun-bath  every  day.  Their 
feet  should  be  kept  damp  but  not  wet.  The  leaves 
should  be  washed  twice  a  week  in  good  soap  suds 
and  rinsed  in  clear  water.  When  the  pots  get  too 
full  of  roots,  repot  the  plants.  Every  rubber  plant 
should  have  a  prepared  food  "square  meal"  twice 
a  month.  Give  it  also  a  dose  occasionally  of 
diluted    ammonia. 

Palms — Add  some  milk  to  the  water  with  which 
you  wash  palms.  This  causes  the  leaves  to  shine, 
and   helps  their  good   health. 

Mint  will  grow  in  water,  as  many  other  plants, 
if  left  in  a  sunny  window  and  given  plenty  of  air. 

Lettuce  can  be  kept  growing  all  summer,  from 
the  early  varieties  started  in  boxes  in  the  house 
to  endive,  the  lettuce  of  autumn,  which  may  be 
sown  from  June  to  August.  Endive  is  tender  as 
a  young  plant  but  bravely  withstands  the  early 
frosts. 

Onion  Crates  Tabourets — By  removing  the  thin 
slats  from  the  top  and  bottom  of  onion  crates  and 
removing  the  wire  of  the  corners  until  the  sides 
have  been  interlaced,  then  replacing  the  wires  and 
fastening  securely,  they  make  excellent  fern  stands. 
They  can  be  stained  or  painted  any  desired  color, 
and   are    really   very    attractive. 


To  Prevent  Broken  Pots  and  Flowers — Flower 
pots  on  piazza  railings  are  easily  knocked  off,  and 
both  pot  and  flower  broken.  All  flower  pots  have 
holes  in  the  bottom.  Nail  a  small-headed  nail  about 
three  or  four  inches  long  on  the  top  of  the  ban- 
isters, over  which  slip  the  pot  and  all  the  trouble 
is  ended. 

To  clean  flower  pots  and  trays  of  brass,  rub  them 
with  a  piece  of  lemon,  pour  boiling  water  over 
them,  and  finally  polish  them  with  a  soft  dry  cloth. 

Tea  leaves,  moistened  with  vinegar,  remove  the 
discoloration    in    glass    caused   by   flowers. 

To  clean  deep  flower  vases,  mix  a  tablespoonful 
of  coarse  salt  and  a  gill  of  vinegar.  Pour  in  the 
vase  and  let  it  stand  for  a  while.  Shake  well  and 
rinse   with   clear   water. 

Care  of  Cut  Flowers — The  principal  drawback 
to  cut  flowers  is  that  they  wither  quickly.  Some 
seem  to  have  more  luck  than  others  in  keeping 
them  fresh.  For  instance,  in  the  matter  of  violets, 
it  is  impossible  to  wear  them  several  times  without 
noticing  the  overpowering  stale  odor  which  pro- 
claims  them   beyond    redemption. 

Keep  Wrapped — Of  course,  many  people  find 
that  they  cannot  wear  cut  flowers  even  for  one 
afternoon,  because  the  body  heat  seems  to  wilt 
them,  but  if  this  can  be  avoided  it  is  quite  possible 
to  find  a  bunch  almost  as  fresh  the  second  day  as 
on  the  first,  if  properly  guarded  overnight. 

Keep  the  box  that  your  violets  came  in  and 
when  you  take  them  off  hold  the  stems  under 
running  water  for  a  few  minutes,  taking  care  not 
to  wet  the  violets  themselves.  Then  Wrap  them 
up  in  the  oiled  paper  and  put  them  back  in  the 
covered  box  outside  the  window,  if  it  is  cool,  or 
in  the  refrigerator;  but  in  either  case  keep  them 
wrapped. 

Preservation — This  treatment  seems  to  restore 
the  flowers  and  hold  in  them  the  delicious  odor 
which  so  soon  becomes  rank  if  they  are  kept  un- 
wrapped in  a  close   room. 

Some  find  that  a  pinch  of  salt  in  the  water  will 
keep  cut  flowers  fresh  longer;  and  so  it  does  in 
some  cases.  In  others  it  seems  to  change  the  color 
a  little.  With  roses  it  is  successful,  but  not  so 
much  so  with  violets.  A  piece  of  gum  camphor 
is  said  to  be  an  excellent  preservative  in  the  water. 
Others  advocate  a  small  lump  of  charcoal.  In  any 
case,  the  water  should  be  changed  daily  and  the 
flowers  kept  in  a  cool  place  overnight. 


INDOOR  GARDEN,  CUT  FLOWERS— MISCELLANEOUS 


475 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


476        THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Sec.  X— INDOOR  GARDEN,  CUT  FLOWERS 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


SUGGESTIONS   FOR   UTILIZING 
LIMITED  AREAS 

(Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  818,  U.  S.  Department 
of  Agriculture,  in  Its  Entirety 
"The  Small  Vegetable  Garden") 

O  ESSENTIALS  OF  GARDENING 

The  primary  needs  for  successful  vegetable  gardening  on  a  small  scale  are 
the  same  as  those  for  gardening  on  a  large  scale.  On  limited  plots,  however, 
greater  emphasis  must  be  placed  on  intensive  culture  and  carefully  arranged  rota- 
tions so  that  every  available  foot  of  space  may  be  made  to  produce  the  maximum 
yield. 

The  essentials  of  all  gardening  are  soil  of  suitable  texture  containing  avail- 
able plant  food,  water  to  dissolve  the  plant  food  so  that  the  plant  rootlets  may 
make  use  of  it,  seeds  or  plants  which  will  produce  the  desired  crops,  sunshine  and 
warmth  to  bring  about  germination  and  plant  development,  and  cultivation.  Much 
also  depends  upon  the  gardener  and  the  care  he  bestows  on  his  enterprise. 

Other  factors — location  and  exposure — cannot  always  receive  much  consid- 
eration in  gardening  small  plots  since  there  is  ordinarily  little  room  for  choice. 
Such  spaces  are  located  usually  in  yards,  or  the  choice  of  location  is  restricted  in 
other  ways  by  the  necessity  that  the  spaces  be  accessible  to  dwellings.  When  a 
possibility  for  the  exercise  of  choice  does  exist,  however,  several  considerations 
should  be  kept  in  mind  by  the  gardener.  It  should  be  recognized  that  frost  is  less 
likely  to  injure  vegetables  planted  on  high  ground  than  those  planted  in  low  places 
or  valleys  into  which  the  heavier  cold  air  commonly  settles ;  that  crops  will  mature 
more  rapidly  on  land  that  has  a  sunny,  southern  exposure  than  on  other  plots ;  that 
the  garden  should  be  fairly  level,  but  well  drained;  and  that  a  warm,  sandy  loam 
will  produce  an  earlier  crop  than  a  heavier  soil  that  retains  more  water  and  less 
heat. 

The  soil  is  the  storehouse  of  plant  food  and  should,  therefore,  have  a 
relatively  open  texture  so  that  the  rootlets  of  vegetables  may  extend  themselves 
readily  in  their  search  for  sustenance.  A  high  proportion  of  humus  or  rotted  vege- 
table material  is  desirable  in  the  soil,  since  it  produces  an  open  texture,  adds  nitrogen, 

477 


478  THE  HOME-KEEPING   BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN   GARDEN 

insures  the  presence  of  beneficial  bacteria,  aids  in  unlocking  plant  food  from  mineral 
particles,  and  increases  the  moisture-retaining  properties  of  the  soil. 

About  50  per  cent,  of  ordinary  earth  is  not  soil  at  all,  but  consists  of  air 
and  water.  Water  makes  the  soluble  plant  food  that  is  present  in  the  soil  freely 
available,  while  the  air  in  the  soil  makes  possible  bacterial  development  and  facili- 
tates chemical  action,  which  makes  additional  plant  food  available. 

IMPORTANCE   OF   A   GOOD   SEED   BED 

The  cultivation  of  crops  is  important  because  the  stirring  and  loosening  of  the  soil 
directly  conserves  moisture  to  some  extent,  kills  weeds,  which  draw  moisture  and  plant  food 
at  the  expense  of  the  crops,  and  incorporates  air  into  the  soil. 

Too  much  emphasis  cannot  be  laid  on  the  preparation  of  a  good  seed  bed.  A  seed 
bed  of  fine  tilth — made  such  by  deep  plowing,  careful  harrowing,  and  fining  of  the  soil — 
is  the  foundation  of  good  gardening.  It  is  essential  for  the  proper  germination  of  seeds  and 
growth  of  young  plants.  The  soil  must  be  friable  and  free  from  clods.  A  clod  locks  up 
plant  food  and  prevents  its  utilization  by  the  plant.  Good  soil  and  fine  tilth  furnish  best 
conditions  for  root  development.  Upon  the  fine,  hairy,  fibrous,  feeding  roots,  which  are 
possible  only  in  well-tilled  soil,  the  plant  depends  for  its  stockiness  and  growth. 

The  careful  gardener  will  regard  his  whole  garden  as  a  seed  bed  and  will  cultivate 
and  fertilize  it  accordingly. 

FERTILIZERS 

Fertilizers,  the  plant  foods  for  the  garden,  should  be  carefully  selected.  Nitrogen, 
which  stimulates  leaf  growth,  is  best  supplied  by  turning  under  rich,  well-rotted  or  com- 
posted manure  or  rotting  vegetable  matter.  Sheep  manure  and  poultry  droppings  will  hurry 
plants  along  more  rapidly  than  most  chemical  fertilizers.  These  substances,  as  well  as  bone 
meal,  also  a  valuable  fertilizer,  usually  may  be  obtained  from  seed  stores. 

PLANNING  THE  SMALL  GARDEN 

With  a  little  forethought  a  comparatively  small  tract  of  land  may  be  made  to  supply 
the  average  family  with  fresh  vegetables  throughout  the  growing  season.  Most  owners  of 
small  gardens  are  content  to  raise  a  single  crop  on  each  plot  of  land  at  their  disposal.  It 
is  quite  possible,  however,  to  grow  two  or  three  crops  of  some  vegetables  in  one  season, 
and  if  these  are  properly  selected  the  home-grown  produce  should  be  both  better  and 
cheaper  than  any  that  can  be  purchased  on  the  market. 

Just  what  vegetables  are  to  be  grown  depends,  of  course,  upon  the  individual  tastes 
of  the  family.  In  general,  the  aim  of  the  home  gardener  should  be  to  raise  vegetables  in 
which  freshness  is  an  important  quality.  Peas,  string  beans,  Lima  beans,  asparagus,  and 
sweet  corn,  for  example,  lose  much  if  they  are  not  cooked  almost  immediately  after  they 
are  picked.  On  the  other  hand,  as  good  potatoes  usually  can  be  bought  as  can  be  grown. 
Moreover,  potatoes  occupy  a  large  area  in  proportion  to  their  yield  and  consume  in  a  back 
yard  or  small  garden  valuable  space  which,  in  most  cases,  could  be  put  to  much  more  profit- 
able use.     This  may  be  true  also,  in  some  cases,  of  corn,  cucumbers,  squashes,  and  melons. 

It  will  pay  the  home  gardener  to  grow  certain  specialties  of  which  he  may  be  fond, 
and  which  may  be  troublesome  or  expensive  to  purchase.  Okra  is  an  example  of  this  class, 
and  little  beds  of  parsley,  chives,  or  other  herbs  take  up  very  little  room  and  provide  the 
housewife  with  additions  for  her  table,  which  are  most  welcome  if  they  can  be  picked  at  the 
right  moment  without  trouble. 

THE  GARDEN   DIAGRAM 

If  the  small  garden  plot,  however,  is  to  be  made  to  bring  the  maximum  returns  in 
economy  and  pleasure  to  the  owner,   every  available  foot  of  it  must  be  made  to  work  con- 


KITCHEN   GARDEN— ESSENTIALS   AND   PLANNING 


479 


tinuously.  This  can  be  accomplished  only  by  careful  planning,  and  it  is  recommended, 
therefore,  that  a  complete  lay-out  for  the  garden  be  drawn  up  in  advance.  On  the  plan 
the  gardener  may  indicate  the  approximate  date  when  each  of  his  projected  crops  is  to  be 
planted.  No  more  space  should  be  allotted  to  each  than  is  needed  to  furnish  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  the  vegetable  for  family  consumption  or  for  other  known  needs.  In  many 
cases,  also,  space  should  be  left  between  the  rows  for  the  interplanting  of  later  crops  and  for 
easy  cultivation.  Plants  which  make  a  high  growth  and  cause  heavy  shade  should  not  be 
located  where  they  will  interfere  with  sun-loving  small  plants.  It  is  well  also  to  separate 
perennials,  such  as  rhubarb  and  asparagus,  which  are  not  cultivated,  from  plants  which  must 
be  tilled. 

THE  DIAGRAM  AS  A   RECORD 

If  a  garden  is  planned  in  this  way  and  the  scheme  carried  out,  the  plan  should  be 
kept  for  use  the  following  year,  with  notes  of  the  success  or  failure  of  the  different  items 
in  it.  For  example,  if  too  much  or  too  little  of  any  vegetable  was  grown,  this  fact  should 
be  recorded.  It  is  not  desirable,  however,  to  follow  too  closely  the  same  plan  in  succeed- 
ing years.  The  same  kind  of  vegetables  should  not  be  grown  twice,  if  this  can  be  avoided, 
in  the  same  part  of  the  garden.  The  danger  of  attack  by  diseases  and  insects  is  heightened 
when  vegetables  of  the  same  kind  follow  each  other  repeatedly  in  a  given  space,  such  as 
a  row  or  bed.  If  a  radically  different  kind  of  plant  is  grown  in  a  space,  on  the  other  hand, 
disease  spores  and  insects,  though  present  in  the  soil,  probably  will  not  attack  the  second 
crop. 

In  making  a  diagram  of  the  garden  it  is  well  to  use  a  tough  paper,  such  as  heavy 
wrapping  paper,  which  will  stand  repeated  handling  and  use  out  of  doors.  A  fairly  large 
scale  should  be  adopted,  so  that  full  notes  can  be  kept  in  the  spaces  representing  rows. 
If  the  garden  is  fairly  large  or  abnormally  long,  the  diagram  may  be  made  in  separate 
sections  for  the  sake  of  convenience. 


I    ■!■  I  >  ■^■fc^C        ~~fc  ' 


•« »l        T»..^l 


o  ©  o  o  o  o  e 


1 1 1 1 11  ^1 1 1 1 1  i|  i  1 13  kill 


|  kg     5    J!  -*-> ' 


k 


Svxrvojivffi 


*    *     <     !     !     '     :     <(    I     '-iSfWnrwsrA 


id! 


■  fit  &  &  s>  &1l$Os 


MTVAA 


L*iJAgAlBAlA*iUJAUAm*H*3i 


|o  o  o  o  ©  ©  o 

m*mHbmmm  nn«»«cK:iiiirnrr    niTinafciffn"~Tn-irf  "iTTi-'t"     ">  i    -f — ^—-  -  --■  ^'  ■■   ■■■■     tm^ejtja 


A   BACK  YARD   GARDEN 

The  garden  shown  in  the  diagram  (fig.  1)  was  a  city  back  yard,  25  by  70  feet  in 
dimensions,  near  New  York  City.  It  happened  to  be  bounded  on  two  sides  by  a  board 
fence,  and  advantage  was  taken  of  this  fact  to  plant  and  train  grape  vines.  Stawberry 
plants  were  set  alongside  the  flagstone  walks  and  currant  bushes  between  the  ■walks  and 
the  fence.  In  the  space  between  the  bushes  and  the  strawberries  low-growing  vegetables, 
such  as  bush  beans,  peppers,   eggplants,  and  the  like  were  set  out.     In  a  space  about  1  2  feet 


480  THE  HOME-KEEPING   BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN   GARDEN 

wide  between  the  walks  low-growing,  quick-maturing  varieties  of  early  vegetables  were 
planted  in  such  a  way  that  later-maturing  varieties  could  be  put  out  at  proper  intervals 
between  them.  The  early  plantings  consisted  of  radishes,  early  beets,  lettuce,  carrots,  and 
a  few  parsnips.  The  beets  gave  way  later  to  a  few  late  cabbage  plants.  The  sunniest  por- 
tion of  the  yard  was  turned  over  to  tomatoes,  of  which  there  were  about  a  dozen  plants 
trained  to  a  single  stem  and  set  about  1 8  inches  apart  in  each  direction.  Early  and  late 
peas  were  put  out  in  the  least  sunny  portions  of  the  yard.  Later,  in  the  fall,  spinach,  kale, 
and  potato-onion  sets  were  planted  in  order  to  provide  a  supply  of  green  succulents  for  the 
winter  and  early  spring. 

IMPORTANCE   OF   SUNLIGHT 

In  making  the  garden  plan  the  gardener  should  recognize  that  no  amount  of  fer- 
tilizer, watering,  and  cultivation  will  make  up  for  the  absence  of  sunlight  in  a  garden. 
Careful  consideration  should  be  given  to  how  many  hours  a  day  any  part  of  the  yard  is 
in  shadow  from  buildings,  fences,  or  trees.  If  a  successful  garden  is  to  be  maintained,  the 
greater  portion  of  the  plot  must  have  at  least  five  hours  of  sunlight  a  day.  As  a  rule, 
foliage  crops,  such  as  lettuce,  spinach,  and  kale,  do  fairly  well  in  partial  shade,  but  even 
these  need  sunshine  two  or  three  hours  a  day.  Plants  which  must  ripen  fruits,  such  as 
tomatoes  and  eggplant,  should  have  the  sunniest  locations. 

CHOOSING   CROPS 

Vegetable  seed  should  be  ordered  in  advance  of  the  time  for  planting  in  the  open, 
so  that  they  will  be  on  hand  for  planting  in  flats  or  frames,  and  also  for  use  outdoors,  as 
soon  as  the  weather  and  the  condition  of  the  soil  make  planting  possible.  Before  ordering 
seed  it  is  a  good  idea  to  look  over  the  garden  plot,  decide  on  the  best  location  for  each 
vegetable,  and  determine  how  much  seed  will  be  required  for  the  space  available  for  each 
variety.     The  garden  plan  may  then  be  drawn. 

SEED  FOR  A  FAMILY  OF  FOUR 

The  following  are  the  approximate  quantities  of  seed  that  should  be  purchased  for 
a  garden  which  is  to  supply  vegetables  for  successive  plantings  throughout  the  season  for  a 
family  of  four: 

Beans,   snap    1  pint  Parsnips Yl  ounce 

Beans,   pole  Lima    Yl  P»nt  Salsify    1  ounce 

Beans,    bush  Lima    Yl  P>nt  Squash,    summer    Yl  ounce 

Cabbage,    early    Yl  ounce  Squash,    Hubbard   type Yl  ounce 

Carrot    I  ounce  Cauliflower     I  packet 

Celery    1  ounce  Eggplant    ,     1  packet 

Cucumber    Yl  ounce  Parsley 1  packet 

Kale,    or   Swiss    chard    Yl    ounce 

For  most  of  the  vegetables  listed  the  planting  may  consist  of  the  entire  quantities 
mentioned.  Relatively  small  quantities  of  cauliflower,  eggplant  and  parsley  will  be  sufficient 
for  most  families,  however. 

The  following  vegetables  undoubtedly  will  be  planted  in  larger  amounts  than  those 
just  mentioned,  and  the  amounts  of  seed  given  will  be  a  guide  for  ordinary  requirements. 
Some   families  may  need   more  of  the  various  vegetables  and  others  less: 

Beet     2  ounces  Radish     '    ounce 

Cabbage,   late Yl  ounce  Spinach     J4    pound      in 

Corn,   sweet 1  pint                                                                                                              spring  and  Yl 

Lettuce Yl  ounce                                                                                                          pound    in    fall 

Muskmelon 1  ounce  Tomatoes,  late !4    ounce 

Onion  sets 2  quarts  Turnips     1    ounce 

'  Peas,    garden    2  to    4    quarts 


KITCHEN  GARDEN— ESSENTIALS  AND  PLANNING  481 

The  entire  supply  of  seeds  of  string  bean,  bush  Lima  bean,  sweet  corn,  lettuce, 
peas,  and  radish  should  not  be  planted  at  one  time,  but  successive  plantings  two  to  three 
weeks  apart  should  be  made  so  that  a  fresh  supply  of  the  vegetables  may  be  had  throughout 
the  season. 

Of  early  Irish  potatoes  one  peck  to  half  bushel  will  be  required,  and  of  late  potatoes 
half  bushel  to  1  bushel,  or  more,  depending  upon  the  amount  of  ground  available  for  this 
purpose.  If  abundant  space  is  available,  it  may  be  well  to  grow  enough  Irish  potatoes  to 
last  throughout  the  winter. 

If  the  family  wishes  to  raise  vegetables  to  supply  current  needs  and  also  to  supply 
a  surplus  for  canning,  the  amounts  indicated  above  should  be  increased  considerably.* 


AIDS  TO   EARLINESS 

The  hotbed,  the  "flat"  or  seed  box,  and  the  cold  frame  are  the  gardener's  greatest 
aids  in  raising  early  crops.  The  hotbed  and  the  flat  enable  him  to  plant  seed  and  produce 
seedlings  long  before  most  of  the  seeds  may  be  planted  out  of  doors  and  before  those 
which  have  been  planted  in  the  plot  have  begun  to  germinate.  The  cold  frame  enables 
him  to  get  the  seedlings  produced  in  the  hotbed  gradually  accustomed  to  outdoor  condi- 
tions and  to  raise  these  into  strong,  sturdy  planting  stock  by  the  time  the  garden  is  ready  for 
them.  Resetting  from  a  hotbed  into  a  cold  frame,  or  from  one  flat  into  another,  or  into  pots, 
gives  most  plants  a  better  root  system  and  makes  them  stockier  and  more  valuable  for  trans- 
planting into  the  open  ground.  Besides  being  used  in  hardening  plants  that  have  been 
started  in  the  hotbed,  the  cold  frame  is  utilized  in  mild  climates  instead  of  a  hotbed  for 
starting  plants  before  seeds  can  be  planted  safely  in  the  open.  In  the  extreme  South  the 
cold  frame  is  much  more  extensively  used  than  the  hotbed,  but  each  has  its  place  in  garden 
economy. 

Still  another  method  of  giving  plants  an  early  start  is  used  extensively  for  beans, 
cucumbers,  melons,  sweet  corn,  and  other  warmth-loving  plants.  This  consists  in  planting 
enough  seeds  for  a  "hill"  in  berry  boxes  filled  with  soil.  The  boxes  are  kept  in  the  house 
or  in  greenhouses  until  the  garden  soil  becomes  warm,  by  which  time  the  plants  should  have 
reached  a  considerable  degree  of  development.  The  bottoms  of  the  boxes  are  then  cut 
away  and  the  remaining  frame  is  sunk  with  the  plants  in  their  permanent  location  in  the 
garden. 

STARTING    EARLY   VEGETABLES  IN  THE  HOUSE 

The  flat  or  seed  box,  which  is  kept  in  the  house,  is  perhaps  the  most  practical 
device  for  use  by  the  home  gardener  for  starting  early  vegetables.  By  its  use  earlier  crops 
of  tomatoes,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  Brussels  sprouts,  peppers,  eggplant,  and  lettuce  can  be 
had  with  little  outlay  for  equipment.  Early  potatoes  sometimes  are  forced  in  the  same  way. 
Seeds  so  planted  germinate  and  are  ready  for  transplanting  by  the  time  it  is  safe  to  sow 
the  same  kind  of  seed  in  the  open  ground.  When  danger  of  frost  is  over  and  the  soil  is 
dry  enough  to  work,  therefore,  the  early  garden  may  be  started  with  seedlings  well  above 
the  surface.  Transplanting,  if  properly  done,  instead  of  injuring  seems  to  help  such  plants 
to  develop  a  strong  root  system. 


*  The  home  gardener  should  find  useful  Farmers'  Bulletins  359,  Canning  Vegetables  in  the  Home; 
521,  Canning  Tomatoes,  Home  and  Club  Work;  255,  Home  Vegetable  Garden;  and  647,  Home  Garden 
in  the  South.  The  latter  is  designed  particularly  for  use  in  the  warmer  climates,  but  contains  many  sug- 
gestions that  can  be  adapted  readily  by  home  gardeners  in  the  North.  The  Department  of  Agriculture 
will  supply  these  bulletins  free  on  application  as  long  as  its  stock  for  free  distribution  lasts. 


482  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN   GARDEN 

HOW  TO  MAKE  AND  USE  A  SEED  BOX 

Any  sort  of  wooden  box  filled  with  good  soil  answers  the  purpose,  but  the  follow- 
ing specific  suggestions  for  a  box  of  convenient  size  may  be  useful.  Construct  a  box  3  to 
4  inches  deep,  12  to  14  inches  wide,  and  20  to  24  inches  long.  A  layer  of  about  1  inch 
of  gravel  or  cinders  should  be  placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  box.  It  should  then  be  filled 
nearly  full  with  rich  garden  soil  or  soil  enriched  with  decayed  leaves  or  manure.  The  rich 
soil  beneath  the  family  woodpile  or  around  decaying  logs  is  splendid  for  this  purpose.  The 
soil  should  be  pressed  down  firmly  with  a  small  piece  of  board  and  rows  made  one-fourth 
to  one-half  inch  deep  and  2  inches  apart  crosswise  of  the  box.  The  seeds  should  be  dis- 
tributed 8  or  1  0  to  the  inch  in  the  rows  and  be  covered.  The  soil  should  be  watered  and 
the  box  set  in  a  warm  place  in  the  light.  The  best  location  is  just  inside  a  sunny  window. 
Water  enough  must  be  given  from  time  to  time  to  cause  the  seeds  to  germinate  and  grow 
thriftily,  but  not  enough  to  leak  through  the  box.  If  a  piece  of  glass  is  used  to  cover  the 
box,   it  will  hold  the  moisture  in  the  soil  and  hasten  the  germination  of  the  seeds. 

When  the  plants  are  from  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  high  they  should  be 
thinned  to  1  or  2  inches  apart  in  the  row,  so  as  to  give  them  space  enough  to  make  a 
strong,  stocky  growth.  If  it  is  desired  to  keep  the  plants  which  are  thinned  out,  they  may 
be  set  2  inches  apart  each  way  in  boxes  similar  to  the  seed  box.  When  the  weather 
becomes  mild  the  box  of  plants  should  be .  set  out  of  doors  part  of  the  time  so  that  the 
plants  will  "harden  off"  in  preparation  for  transplanting  to  the  garden  later.  A  good  water- 
ing should  be  given  just  before  the  plants  are  taken  out  of  the  box  for  transplanting,  so 
that  a  large  ball  of  earth  will  stick  to  the  roots  of  each  one. 

THE  HOTBED 

Locate  the  hotbed  in  some  sheltered  but  not  shaded  spot  which  has  a  southern 
exposure.  The  most  convenient  size  is  a  box-like  structure  6  feet  wide  and  any  multiple 
of  3  feet  long,  so  that  standard  3  by  6  foot  hotbed  sash  may  be  used.  The  frame  should 
be  12  inches  high  in  the  back  and  8  inches  in  the  front.  This  slope  is  for  the  purpose  of 
securing  a  better  angle  for  the  sun's  rays  and  should  be  faced  toward  the  south. 

The  hotbed  not  only  must  collect  any  heat  it  can  from  the  sun,  but  also  must  gen- 
erate heat  of  its  own  from  fermentation  in  fresh  manure.  Fresh  horse  manure,  free  from 
stable  litter,  is  best  for  generating  heat. 

If  the  hotbed  is  to  be  an  annual  affair,  make  an  excavation  1 8  inches  to  2  feet 
deep,  about  2  feet  greater  in  length  and  width  than  the  frame  carrying  the  sash.  Line  the 
excavation  with  plank  or  with  a  brick  or  concrete  wall.  A  drain  to  carry  off  surplus  water 
is  essential.  This  may  consist  of  either  tile  or  pipe  extending  to  a  low  portion  of'  the  garden 
or  a  trench  partially  filled  with  coarse  stones  covered  with  a  layer  of  hay  or  sod  and  then 
filled  level  with  soil. 

After  a  sufficient  amount  of  fresh  horse  manure  has  been  accumulated  fill  the  hot- 
bed pit,  and  while  it  is  being  filled  tramp  the  manure  as  firmly  and  as  evenly  as  possible. 
When  the  ground  level  is  reached,  place  the  frame  in  position  and  bank  the-  sides  and  ends 
with  manure.  Place  about  3  inches  of  good  garden  loam  on  top  of  the  manure  inside  the 
frame  and  cover  it  with  the  sash.  After  the  heat  has  reached  its  maximum  and  has  sub- 
sided to  between  80  and  90  degrees  F.,  it  will  be  safe  to  plant  the  seeds.  Select  the 
plumpest,  freshest  seeds  obtainable.  Use  standard  varieties,  and  get  them  from  reliable  seed 
houses. 

Keep  the  bed  partially  dark  until  the  seeds  germinate. 

After  germination,  however,  the  plants  will  need  all  the  light  possible,  exclusive  of 
the  direct  rays  of  the  sun,  to  keep  them  growing  rapidly.     This  is  a  crisis  in  plant  life,  and 


KITCHEN   GARDEN— ESSENTIALS   AND   PLANNING  483 

ventilating  and  watering  with  great  care  are  of  prime  importance.  Too  close  planting  and 
too  much  heat  and  water  cause  the  plants  to  become  spindling.  Water  the  plants  on  clear 
days,   in  the  morning,  and  ventilate  immediately  to  dry  the  foliage  and  to  prevent  mildew. 

THE  COLD  FRAME 

The  cold  frame,  so  useful  in  hardening  plants  started  in  the  hotbed  and  for  start- 
ing plants  in  mild  climates,  is  constructed  in  much  the  same  way  as  the  hotbed,  except 
that  no  manure  is  used,  and  the  frame  may  be  covered  either  with  glass  sash  or  with  canvas. 
A  cold  frame  may  be  built  on  the  surface  of  the  ground,  but  a  more  permanent  structure, 
suitable  for  holding  plants  over  winter,  will  require  a  pit  18  to  24  inches  deep.  The  cold 
frame  should  be  filled  with  a  good  potting  soil.  The  plants  should  have  more  ventilation 
in  the  cold  frame,  but  should  not  receive  so  much  water.     It  is  best  to  keep  the  soil  rather  dry. 

In  transplanting,  remember  that  plants  usually  thrive  better  if  transplanted  into 
ground  that  has  been  freshly  cultivated.  Transplanting  to  the  open  field  is  best  done  in 
cool,  cloudy  weather  and  in  the  afternoon.  This  prevents  the  sun's  rays  from  causing  the 
plant  to  lose  too  much  moisture  through  evaporation.  In  transplanting  the  gardener  will  find 
a  child's  express  wagon  an  excellent  trolley  tray  for  bedding  out  his  seedlings. 

TOOLS 

The  necessary  tools  for  preparing  and  caring  for  the  small  garden  are  few.  A 
spade  or  garden  fork  for  digging,  a  hoe,  a  steel-tooth  rake,  a  trowel,  and  a  dibble  or 
pointed  stick  complete  the  list  of  essentials.  The  gardener  will  find  it  convenient,  however, 
to  possess  some  additional  implements.  If  tree  roots  underlie  any  portion  of  the  garden 
plot  and  must  be  cut  away,  a  hatchet,  ax,  or  mattock  will  be  a  real  necessity.  If  the  soil 
of  the  plot  has  become  compacted,  as  where  walks  have  existed,  a  pick  may  be  needed 
for  digging.  Perhaps  in  such  cases  it  will  be  most  economical  to  fill  both  cutting  and 
digging  needs  by  purchasing  a  pick-ax  which  has  a  pick  point  at  one  end  of  the  head  and  a 
cutting  blade  at  the  other.  Apparatus  for  watering  plants  also  should  be  included.  This 
may  be  a  watering  pot  of  generous  proportions  or,  where  running  water  is  available,  a  hose. 
In  order  that  rows  may  be  made  straight  and  uniform  a  substantial  line  or  cord  should  be 
provided. 

A  most  convenient  implement  for  use  in  the  home  garden,  especially  where  the 
plot  is  fairly  large,  is  a  hand  cultivator  or  wheel  hoe.  This  implement  is  a  miniature  cul- 
tivator or  plow,  with  adjustable  blades,  mounted  on  a  wheel  or  wheels,  and  is  pushed  along 
by  hand.  Attachments  make  possible  either  the  turning  of  small  furrows,  the  stirring  of  the 
soil,   or  the  removal  of  weeds.      Much  time  and  labor  may  be  saved  by  such  a  device. 

Among  the  other  implements  which  may  be  useful  in  the  home  garden  but  which 
are  not  essential  are  planting  and  cultivating  hoes  of  special  shapes,  a  combination  hoe  and 
rake,  a  wheelbarrow,  a  shovel,  hand  weeding  tools,  and  other  small  implements  for  special 
uses. 

PREPARING  THE  SOIL 

A  simple  test  to  determine  when  garden  soil  is  ready  for  plowing  or  working  is  to 
take  a  handful  of  earth  from  the  surface  and  close  the  fingers  tightly  on  it.  If  the  earth 
compacted  in  this  way  is  dry  enough  for  cultivation,  it  will  fall  apart  when  the  hand  is 
opened.  This  test  is  applicable  only  to  comparatively  heavy  soils,  but  it  is  these  which 
receive  the  most  injury  if  they  are  worked  when  wet.  On  such  soils  overzealous  gardeners 
not  only  waste  their  time  but  frequently  do  actual  damage  by  attempting  to  work  them  too 
early. 


484  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN  GARDEN 

BREAKING 

The  kind  of  preparation  that  must  be  given  to  the  small  garden  and  the  amount 
of  work  that  will  be  required  will  depend  largely,  of  course,  on  the  condition  of  the  plot 
and  the  use  to  which  it  has  been  put.  If  the  ground  selected  for  the  garden  has  been 
firmed  by  much  tramping,  as  is  often  the  case  in  back  yards,  it  cannot  be  got  into  proper 
condition  without  the  expenditure  of  considerable  labor.  When  plowing  with  a  team  can 
be  practiced,  that  is  the  best  method  for  giving  the  ground  its  initial  breaking.  The  surface, 
of  course,    should   be   harrowed   a   ssoon    as   possible  after  plowing. 

If  the  plot  cannot  be  plowed,  the  gardener  must  resort  to  the  use  of  a  garden  fork 
or  spade,  or  in  the  case  of  very  hard  spots,  a  mattock.  The  soil  should  be  well  loosened 
to  the  depth  of  the  spade  or  fork.  If  heavy  clay  is  encountered  at  this  depth,  it  should 
not  be  turned  up  to  the  surface,  but  the  slices  of  soil  should  be  kept  in  their  normal  posi- 
tion. As  soon  as  each  spade  or  fork  full  of  earth  is  loosened,  it  should  be  broken  up  by 
blows  with  the  back  of  the  implement.  Later  the  freshly  dug  surface  should  be  fined  and 
smoothed  with  a  steel-tooth  rake.  It  is  not  sufficient  that  the  surface  be  made  fine;  the  soil 
should  be  well  pulverized  to  the  depth  of  the  digging.  Any  sod  or  plant  growth  on  the 
garden  plot  should  be  turned  under  to  rot  and  form  humus.  In  turning  under  sod  with  a 
spade  or  fork  it  is  well  to  reverse  each  segment  so  that  foliage  will  be  down  and  roots  up. 

The  first  digging  of  a  plot  of  ground  which  has  not  before  been  cultivated  is  likely 
to  be  a  laborious  task,  and  may  even  take  away  the  enthusiasm  of  the  would-be  gardener. 
After  this  portion  of  the  work  is  done,  however,  the  fining  of  the  soil,  planting,  and  culti- 
vation are  not  arduous.  It  may  be  well  in  many  cases  for  the  gardener  to  employ  some  one 
to  break  his  ground,  whether  this  be  done  with  plow,  spade,  or  fork. 

IMPROVING  SOIL  TEXTURE 

It  is  desirable  that  the  soil  of  the  garden  be  as  open  and  light  as  possible.  Where 
a  natural  loam  exists  in  the  plot  good  texture  can  be  given  by  digging  and  cultivating. 
Where  the  soil  is  heavy,  containing  much  clay,  however,  other  steps  are  necessary.  If  clean 
sand  is  available  this  may  be  'mixed  with  the  soil.  Well-sifted  coal  ashes  which,  unlike 
wood  ashes,  have  no  fertilizing  value,  are  useful  in  lightening  the  soil.  Care  should  be 
taken  that  no  coarse  cinders  or  pieces  of  partly  burned  coal  are  added  to  the  soil  with  the 
ashes. 

Lime  added  to  the  soil  also  will  tend  to  lighten  it  and  will,  at  the  same  time, 
correct  acidity.  A  thin  coat  of  air-slaked  lime  should  be  spread  on  the  ground  and  worked 
in  well.  Lime  is  not  a  plant  food,  but  its  function  in  gardening  is  important  none  the 
less.  By  correcting  acidity  it  makes  possible  the  development  of  countless  soil  bacteria 
which  aid  in  unlocking  plant  food  from  the  mineral  particles  of  the  soil  and  in  making  these 
substances  available  for  the  plants.  In  acid  soils  these  helpful  organisms  do  not  thrive,  and 
in  their  absence  vegetables  do  not  grow  at  their  best. 

FERTILIZERS 

After  the  soil  has  been  got  into  good  mechanical  condition,  it  usually  is  desirable 
to  apply  some  form  of  fertilizer.  Barnyard  or  stable  manure,  which  furnishes  both  plant 
food  and  humus,  undoubtedly  is  the  best,  and  applications  of  from  20  to  30  tons  to  the 
acre  are  satisfactory.  This  is  roughly  equivalent  to  from  400  to  600  pounds,  or  several 
wheelbarrow  loads,  for  each  plot  20  by  20  feet.  The  manure  should  be  distributed  evenly 
over  the  surface,   and  later  'worked  in  with  a  hoe  and  rake. 

Frequently  it  is  advisable  also  to  apply  commercial  fertilizer.  An  application  of 
1,000   to    1,500   pounds  to   the  acre,    or    10   to   15  pounds  per  plot  20  feet  square,  usually 


KITCHEN   GARDEN— ESSENTIALS   AND   PLANNING  485 

is  sufficient.  In  order  to  supply  potash,  if  this  is  needed,  unleached  wood  ashes  may 
be  distributed  over  the  garden  at  the  rate  of  1,000  pounds  to  the  acre,  or  10  pounds 
to  each  plot  20  feet  square.  Wet  or  leached  ashes  have  less  fertilizer  value.  Dou- 
ble the  quantity  of  these  should  be  used.  In  order  to  start  the  plants  in  the 
spring,  applications  of  1 00  pounds  to  the  acre  of  nitrate  of  soda,  of  1  pound  to 
each  20-foot  square,  may  be  used.  By  far  the  best  way  to  use  nitrate  of  soda  in  the  small 
garden,  however,  is  to  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  the  chemical  in  a  gallon  of  water  and 
use  the  solution  for  watering  young  plants.  It  is  important  to  remember  that  no  form  of 
commercial  fertilizer  will  yield  good  results  unless  the  soil  is  well  supplied  with  humus. 
Reference  already  has  been  made  to  the  use  of  prepared  sheep  manure  as  a  ferti- 
lizer. When  this  plant  food  can  be  obtained  at  a  reasonable  price,  it  is  perhaps  the  safest 
concentrated  fertilizer  for  use  by  the  home  gardener.  It  will  not  pay  to  broadcast  prepared 
sheep  manure.  Small  quantities  should  be  applied  under  the  drill  when  the  seeds  are  planted 
or  the  plants  set  out.      Later  applications  may  be  worked  in  with  a  trowel  around  the  plants. 

PLANTING  VEGETABLES  IN  THE  OPEN 
WHEN  TO  PLANT 

Vegetables  may  be  divided  into  two  classes — "cold  temperature"  and  "warm  tem- 
perature" vegetables.  When  peach  and  plum  trees  are  in  blossom,  or,  where  these  trees  do 
not  occur,  when  silver  maples  put  forth  leaves,  or  catkins  appear  on  willows  and  poplars, 
it  is  time  to  sow  in  the  open  ground  the  seeds  of  lettuce,  spinach,  kale,  endive,  radish,  pars- 
ley, beets,  turnips,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  Brussels  sprouts,  carrots,  round-seeded  peas,  and 
onions.  The  wrinkled  peas  should  not  be  planted  until  later,  as  they  are  more  likely  to 
rot  in  cool  ground  than  are  the  smooth  varieties.  When  the  apple  trees  bloom,  or  when 
the  dogwood  and  white  oak  buds  unfold,  it  is  time  to  plant  the  heat-loving  vegetables,  such 
as  cucumbers,  beans,  sweet  corn,  okra,  pumpkin,  and  squash.  This  is  an  old  approximation 
for  planting  dates,  but  has  been  found  in  most  cases  to  be  satisfactory. 

Planting  times  may  be  fixed  in  still  another  way  on  the  basis  of  the  occurrence  of 
frost.  Frost  ordinarily  will  kill  tender  growths  of  vegetables,  but  young  plants  of  a  few 
kinds  will  survive  light  frosts.  Among  the  latter,  which  may  be  called  Group  I,  are  cabbage, 
lettuce,  Irish  potatoes,  early  peas  (smooth  seeded),  onion  seeds  and  sets,  parsnips,  salsify, 
beets,   radishes,   and  such  salad  plants  as  kale,  spinach,  and  mustard. 

A  "second  early"  group  of  vegetables,  which  may  be  called  Group  II,  may  be  planted 
as  soon  as  danger  of  frost  is  over.  In  this  group  are  included  lettuce  plants  and  seeds, 
radishes,  wrinkled  peas,  carrots,  and  early  sweet  corn. 

A  week  or  1  0  days  after  the  seeds  and  plants  of  Group  II  are  placed  in  the  ground, 
string  beans  and  late  sweet  corn,  constituting  Group  III,  may  be  planted. 

A  group  of  plants,  which  may  be  called  Group  IV,  should  be  planted  only  after  the 
ground  has  begun  to  warm  up.  In  this  group  are  cucumbers,  melons,  squashes,  pumpkins, 
Lima  beans,   and  tomato,  eggplant,   and  pepper  plants. 

Detailed  suggestions  for  planting  are  given  in  a  table  hereafter. 

DEPTHS  OF  PLANTING 

No  general  rule  can  be  given  with  regard  to  the  depth  for  planting  seeds,  since 
different  varieties  of  vegetables  and  different  soils  necessitate  different  practices.  The 
smaller  the  seeds,  usually,  the  shallower  the  planting  should  be.  In  heavy  clay  or  moist  soils 
the  covering  should  be  lighter   than  in   sandy  or  dry  soils. 


486 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN   GARDEN 


O 


Q 


CO 

0) 

13 
O 

u 

I 

CD 

co 

CO 

=1 

■a 

«3 

03 

■% 

1) 

■W 

4 

TJ 

3 

0 

fa> 
U 

Mm 

0 

0) 

C 

"a 

"8 

e 
o 

0) 

2 

H 

Z 

o 
o 

4 

2 

s 

o 

2 

1 

u 
C 

CO 

cd 

u 

H 

O 
o 

id 

faS 

4) 
CO 

2 

T> 

ST 

O 

Id 

V> 

2. 

0) 

Q 

a; 

s 

-? 

J2 

< 

£ 

•B 

cfl 

o 

(0 

a 

(0 

4-> 

c 

0) 

a 

(S 

(Tt 

** 

O 

o 

1 

C 
co 

0) 
J* 

c 

o 

fal 

o 

cfl 

Si 

0Q 

CO 

4) 
09 

V4- 

o 
>> 

a 


3B 

£5 


,   rt  cd   rt  'O  'O 
j  -O  T3  T3 

o  o 

i  io  ©  ©  cm  co 


©  ©  o  ©  e 


6  -d  "a 


-    i-    r-   —  <-<  i— 


I  60  § 


cd   p   : 

a  m  ( 
P  P  : 


-& 


5d  = 


EH"    SS 

Is  s  if  if 


II 

■a  -a 


■c2 


i  *  a  i 


m 
"a 

s~ 


cd   cd 


■<-<<   a    a 


^saaa   aa 


s 

O   3 


III 


S  ». 
g& 

2  3 
^  .o 


3     1   b 


I  S 

a  ^ 

S  5 

■  3 


;   p,  p.  fr,  „ 

:  p  ^  ja 

c  es  *  tS 

cd  cd  TJ        o 

d  a  £° 

■2  2  £  h  g  c 

3  ej  ca  efl  H  «l 


2 
3* 


p  cd 

■°  C 

fa  n 


■S  c  £  ,S  " 


3  oM"M  „  ,- 


*    * 


a 


,ss 


_s 


"  1 

So 


d^ 

z£b 

ii^i 

i^ 

cc  :  a *5 

dd 

c 

25^c«2 

»i! 

o                  o  o 

S  3  f-  -2 

J- 

£ 

fa   h   o^  h 

S  « 

O 

NHWrtlOMinHH 

HHIOH 

3g 

,2fa& 

fi  1 


B  £ 

CO  M  CM  ■ 

O    Q 

B  S  B^     . 

CM  O0 

CqHHHHl 


a   a   aa 

(N  CO 

o   :  o  o      o      o 


B  £ 


a   aa 


IN  OJ  O  O  r-t 


as 

O  CM 


a  :aaa 

CO  <h  CO  CO  CD 


S 2  ^  3" S 

©       © 
co  «  eo  eo  eo  co 


ass 


aa   a 


aa^-a 


o  d 
co  © 


;^^«s«3!    s;^rta«    ^ 


^SS^SSc*      s*^ 


'43T!D,c,ecIcdcj3Fci 

faEffloiocjfflfad 


X)    fa, 
cd   cd 

wo 


.  o 

•sa 

B   3 
C  ol 


I  * 


3      £  "S 

"3      £  s 


5J  —  £  £3  fa-        h  oj 
co         co        XXSoo         Ot; 

o     u     ooooo     uo 


KITCHEN    GARDEN— GARDENER'S    PLANTING  TABLE 


487 


■  jS  | 

£     £ 

.  >}   .  t* 

<a  ca  g 
-3-3  2o 

o  q      *- 

SoS 

P^.mm^co^Cl.t*!  Punts 

^  7.    ^.  >.=:>,  >.  a    x   =;  ee  >i  a 

ca  13  "U       *o  t]        ^  "O 

0*0                 O                 O  T3  ©  O          O 

CI        ©  O  10  ©  o  co         -e<  toato 

—  ©  ©  -3*  t—  ~ '    -  ■ 


-  -t  n  —  —  — 


-wqoo+^o  o  -'  o- 
O        *  ©  '*"'  ""'  w  *"*  e 

©o©©eo©©c<j©c; 


•wo-* 
©  ""'  e 

we 


©       *-•*-> 


.   P*     .     .   >>  m 

■.■  ~  I.  7.  ~  >, 

i  „■  >i  -a  e»  >i  -a  ea 

!   tJ    cj  ed    a         73 

;  a  "o  o  *a  *o  © 

«  CO  CD  O 

'    S»>  ©   i-<   ©   ©   rH  *3< 

o  "o 
o  o 


rp  CO  Q 

O  ■"    O    Q  ■" 

«  s  ** «  *-  * 


i  =  a 


J3S 


s 


ft  J 


*a§  = 

:  a  «  ^» 


(3    03    >, 

Tl   a   as 


a 

CO 

SB 

&■§ 

1  =* 


Is 


r  - 
g 

■5    aas<   sals 


j-s-s-g-g- 


2  *•»  ' 


.Kilns?8 

g  S     a "o "a 
,—  3  .2  s  g  >,  o  >,  2 


2<! 


^2 

d  — 

a 


Sm  a 
t,  °.&3 

5"  3  3 

SSa«! 


§1 

si 

ca  fa 


23 
stag  pas  g^a 

flg®         -a  _,  £ 
a 3flQ  o  osSp 

*     s^*  5,g     * 

«  cj  S'o.c,**3  &  o. 
S  Has  <  0  a      -HO 


M 

a     *- 

SO 

Sen. 
____  «  cS 

!&!& 

t*.  3   >.  3 

«-  ,a  m  ,o 

ed  o  ea  a> 

W  fc.  K  * 


<4 

3  "  g 


cd         u. 
3        03 


^   =! 


g"3 

si  a" 

S3 


a 


S  °S  b"Ss 


q  3 


3  S 
S5 


§1 


Q   H  M  a 

£   £    3    g 

s  as  s 

to  to  m  Q 


a   s 
s   s  0a 


"s 


s  [ss-s 

fra     •  M  M        ca 

-S     SSSS^S"     "". 


r-.rt"*,^(  "^    **   "*   ^|  -fj"- 

o  O         O   o  O         o 


J     iic£5 


co 


25  33 


0  *-  00  o 

rt  LO  tQ  IS  to  ^ 

3  >-SS  m 


SSH2 

2  S 


i—  — i  :i  — i 
o  q  o  o 
inw       oo  *J« 


o  o  c 

CO  <M  oo 


scoSS 

g°ssssS3ls 


is 

ai 

iii 

B    -" 

C  3  a  fl  C  3* 

3   3 

Sr: 

3   3  _g 

a 

Qi  CO 

o  •u' 

CO  CM 

c 

O0  CD  £ 

—  co 

oo  oo  oo  ^  ^o  ^ 
hhh«mn 

M  CO 

ir 

Cv 

CO          C 
i-l  CD 

CO  tc 

•w  •«<  oo  £ 

NC4H 

C 

■TT 

t'i  cn 

,ss 


OO  OQOOOO 
0»'*J  o*'-t3*'*J-'-J 
"^  M  H*    MMWWOM 


s    a- 


,SSi 


aaa 


i  co  b^  co       »h  oo 


B3  2 

COS 

co  co  co 


eo  eo 

O   O    3 


J5 


CMco-i-cococoeo        eo        coco  «co.        cccoso        o 

oC»ooqoo        o        oo  qfl        qoo 

o  —  «o*j*-s*-*-jo--j       »-•+'       q       o-w—O"3-^-"©©© 


cj  cj  o  o 

3  C  3  C 

3  3  3  3 

O  O  o  o 


CJ  "g    3  3    3    3    C 

3    g    3  3    3    3    3 

3   t->   o         o   o   o   o 


cj    3    O 

3    3    3 
3    O    3 


;£;£;£;£     ^g^     ^^^^      ^i 


o  cj  b 

3  C  =S 

3  3  3 

O  O  C- 


3   3         ; 
o  03  < 


_^^^^S 


^2 


o  3  aj 

i,«B3   =   353:a333 

OC.033000 


,ss*    *# 


.  g  »  * 


:  S  o 

:«  g 


a    s. 


kjjs   a 


°^:-3-3-s?i  r 

^«^SCeJeScg<B 


is 

— "  o 


3  :  ^  j=  s 
■S-fi  S  ' 


-■ipllll 


488  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN  GARDEN 

SEED  BEDS 

The  gardener  may  find  it  desirable  to  reserve  a  small  area  of  his  garden  for  a  seed 
bed  in  which  some  of  the  second  crops  for  his  rotations  may  be  grown  while  the  ground  in 
which  they  are  to  develop  is  still  occupied.  In  this  way  also  advantage  is  taken  of  the  fact 
that  transplanting  makes  for  stockiness.  In  seed-bed  culture  much  the  same  practices  are  in 
force  as  in  growing  plantlets  in  the  flats  and  frames.  The  rows  of  seeds,  however,  are  not 
spaced  so  closely  in  the  outdoor  seed  beds  as  in  the  boxes  and  frames.  When  the  plantlets 
crowd  they  may  be  thinned  out  or  transplanted  to  another  part  of  the  seed  bed  .  Late  cabbage, 
lettuce,  Brussels  sprouts,  cauliflower,  etc.,  are  plants  that  in  many  cases  may  be  treated  con- 
veniently in  this  way. 

PLANTING   PRACTICES 

In  planting  many  kinds  of  seeds  in  the  garden  thick  sowings  are  made  to  insure  a 
good  stand,  and  the  superfluous  plants  later  are  pulled  up.  Straight  rows  or  drills  should 
be  used  in  all  cases.  The  use  of  a  line  will  make  accuracy  possible.  The  line  is  stretched 
between  stakes  at  the  ends  of  the  row,  and  with  this  as  a  guide  the  furrow  is  then  opened. 
This  may  be  done  with  the  end  of  a  hoe  or  rake  handle,  with  the  corner  of  a  hoe,  or  the 
point  of  a  special  furrow  hoe,  with  a  hand  plow,  or  with  the  edge  of  a  board  pressed  into 
the  loosened  soil.  Small  seeds  may  be  shaken  out  of  the  packet  by  hand  in  a  thin  stream 
while  the  packet  is  held  close  to  the  bottom  of  the  furrow.  Larger  seeds,  like  peas  and 
beans,  may  be  dropped  from  the  hand.  Mechanical  planters,  built  like  wheel  hoes,  may 
be  purchased  if  the  size  of  the  garden  justifies  their  use. 

DRILLS,  ROWS,  AND  HILLS 

Small  plants  which  are  to  be  left  almost  touching  each  other,  as  is  the  case  with 
onions  and  carrots,  are  said  to  be  grown  in  drills.  Plants  grown  at  fixed  distances,  as  cab- 
bages or  potatoes,  are  in  rows.  When  plants  are  grown  at  distances  of  several  feet  apart 
in  both  directions  they  are  said  to  be  in  hills.  Furrows  are  opened  for  planting  in  both  drills 
and  rows.  Hills,  however,  may  be  opened  with  a  spade  or  trowel.  An  excellent  method 
of  using  fertilizer  is  to  apply  it  in  the  drills,  rows,  or  hills  before  planting.  In  such  cases 
the  fertilizer  should  be  mixed  carefully  with  the  soil  in  the  bottom  of  the  opening  before 
the  seeds  are  deposited. 

FINAL  PLANTING  TOUCHES 

In  planting  the  gardener  should  keep  in  mind  that  to  germinate  and  develop  prop- 
erly into  sturdy  plants  the  seed  must  be  firmly  imbedded  in  well-fined,  moist  soil.  The 
condition  of  the  soil  beneath  the  seeds  is  most  important,  since  it  is  in  this  soil  that  the 
rootlets  on  emerging  must  find  sustenance.  Air  spaces  or  cracks  may  cause  the  rootlets 
to  shrivel.  It  is  well,  therefore,  especially  if  the  soil  is  at  all  dry,  to  force  the  seeds  gently 
into  the  soil,  compacting  it  slightly.  This  may  be  done  with  the  back  of  a  hoe  in  the  case 
of  small  seeds,  or  with  the  ball  of  the  foot  when  large  seeds,  such  as  beans  and  peas,  are 
being  planted.  The  seeds  should  then  be  covered  immediately  with  soil.  This  should  be 
very  slightly  compacted  over  the  seeds  with  the  back  of  the  hoe.  If  weather  conditions  are 
such  that  there  is  a  tendency  for  the  soil  to  bake  over  the  drills  and  rows  before  the  plants 
appear,  it  is  well  to  rake  very  lightly  with  a;  steel-tooth  rake.  It  may  be  necessary,  also,  to 
work  the  ground  at  the  sides  of  the  rows  as  the  plants  are  breaking  through  the  surface. 
This  should  be  done  very  carefully  to  avoid  injury  to  the  tender  shoots. 

SETTING  OUT  PLANTS 

Plants  grown  in  flats,  hotbeds,  or  cold  frames  should  be  "hardened  off,"  as  has 
already  been  suggested,  before  they  are  to  be  planted  out  of  doors.  Another  preliminary 
step,   if  the  plants  are  too  tall  or  succulent,  is   to    trim   away   about   one-half   of   the   large 


KITCHEN  GARDEN— CULTIVATION  489 

leaves.  Several  hours  before  transplanting  the  plants  should  be  watered  thoroughly,  so 
that  the  soil  will  be  moist  enough  to  stick  to  the  roots  in  balls  of  considerable  bulk.  After 
staking  out  rows  and  marking  planting  positions,  lift  the  plants  out  with  a  trowel,  keeping 
as  much  soil  as  possible  on  the  roots.  Cut  or  tear  the  plants  apart  when  their  roots  are 
intertwined. 

If  the  ground  is  moist,  merely  open  a  hole  with  a  trowel  or  dibble,  insert  the  earth- 
incased  roots  of  a  plant,  draw  soil  up  to  the  stalk  and  firm  with  knuckles  and  the  balls  of 
thumbs.  If  the  soil  is  at  all  dry,  pour  about  a  pint  of  water  into  each  hole  before  the 
plant  is  set.  The  surface  about  each  plant  should  be  raked  carefully  when  all  the  plants 
are  set. 

CULTIVATION 

The  importance  of  cultivation  has  been  referred  to  in  the  discussion  of  the  prepara- 
tion of  the  seed  bed.  It  is,  however,  after  the  seeds  have  sprouted  or  after  the  plants  have 
been  set  in  their  permanent  locations  that  cultivation  becomes  of  major  importance.  The 
gardener  should  never  permit  the  surface  of  the  soil  to  become  baked  or  even  to  form  an 
appreciable  crust.  Constant  stirring  with  hand  tools  or  a  wheel  cultivator  should  be  prac- 
ticed between  the  rows  and  about  the  plants.  Such  a  stirring  permits  the  air  to  penetrate 
the  soil,  where  it  facilitates  chemical  action  and  bacterial  activity,  destroys  weeds  which 
otherwise  would  utilize  large  amounts  of  plant  food,  and,  finally,  conserves  the  moisture 
supply.  The  rake  is  perhaps  the  gardener's  most  valuable  tool  in  cultivating.  This  can 
be  passed  backward  and  forward  over  the  ground  until  it  is  in  an  open,  mellow  condition. 
Where  vegetables  grow  closely  in  the  rows  it  often  will  be  necessary  to  supplement  the 
cultivation  by  hand  weeding.  Small  implements  are  made  for  this  purpose,  and  may  be 
purchased  cheaply.  It  is  well  also  in  some  cases  to  pull  up  weeds  by  hand,  especially  where 
they  grow  closely  about  the  stalks  of  the  garden  plants. 

STIRRING  THE  SOIL  AFTER  RAINS 

Just  as  the  gardener  should  be  careful  in  early  spring  not  to  dig  the  ground  when 
the  soil  is  too  moist,  so  he  should  be  careful  later  in  the  season  not  to  cultivate  too  soon 
after  rains.  The  stirring  of  very  muddy  soil  "puddles"  it  into  a  compact,  cement-like 
mass  in  which  the  plant  food  is  securely  locked.  The  garden  will  require  attention,  however, 
as  soon  as  the  excess  moisture  from  a  rain  has  soaked  in  or  partially  evaporated.  Unless 
the  ground  is  stirred  at  this  time  a  crust  will  form  almost  inevitably.  Such  a  crust,  besides 
restricting  the  plants,  prevents  the  access  of  air,  and  also  facilitates  the  loss  of  moisture 
through  evaporation.  - 

IRRIGATION 

When,  during  prolonged  dry  spells,  the  plants  give  evidence  of  suffering  because  of 
the  lack  of  moisture,  water  must,  if  possible,  be  supplied  artificially.  Where  a  supply  of 
piped  water  is  at  hand,  perhaps  the  most  usual  method  of  irrigation  is  by  sprinkling  with 
a  hose.  If  sprinkling  is  practiced,  it  should  be  done  late  in  the  afternoon.  It  is  not  sufficient 
merely  to  dampen  the  surface;  a  thorough  wetting  should  be  given.  A  more  satisfactory 
and  more  economical  method  of  irrigation,  however,  is  to  open  small  furrows  between  the 
rows  of  growing  plants  and  to  supply  water  in  these  ditches  from  a  hose  or  pipe.  Several 
hours  after  the  water  has  soaked  in,  the  dry  earth  should  be  drawn  back  into  place. 

PROTECTING  PLANTS  FROM  DISEASES  AND  PESTS 

Unfortunately,  the  gardener  is  not  assured  of  success  when  his  plants  have  started 
to  grow  thriftily.  He  must  count  almost  inevitably  upon  the  presence  in  his  garden  of 
plant  diseases  and  pests,  which,  if  not  combated,  will  interfere  seriously  with  his  yields  or 
even  destroy  his  plants.     It  is  hard  for  some  gardeners  to  realize  the  importance  of  making 


490 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN  GARDEN 


early  provision  to  combat  these  enemies  of  plant  life.  It  cannot  be  too  strongly  emphasized, 
however,  that  such  provision  is  of  equal  importance  with  other  phases  of  gardening  and 
that  it  should  under  no  circumstances  be  neglected.  The  wise  gardener  does  not  wait  for 
the  appearance  of  insects  and  diseases,  but  takes  steps  to  combat  them  by  spraying  the  plants 
at  reasonable  intervals  from  early  spring  until  his  crops  have  been  harvested,  or  by  other 
protective  measures.      He  thus  insures  himself  against  the  likelihood  of  loss. 

The  necessary  implements  and  materials  for  protecting  the  home  garden  against 
insects  and  diseases  should  be  assembled  early  in  the  season.  These  consist  of  a  substantial 
hand  sprayer  and  the  necessary  concentrated  solutions,  which,  after  dilution  with  water,  are 
to  be  sprayed  on  the  plants. 

The  diseases  which  affect  garden  plants  may  be  divided  into  two  groups,  parasitic 
and  constitutional  diseases.  The  parasitic  maladies,  such  as  the  blights,  are  caused  by  fungi 
or  germs,  and  usually  may  be  prevented  or  controlled  by  spraying  with  Bordeaux  mixture. 
Little  is  known,  however,  of  the  so-called  constitutional  diseases,  and  little  can  be  done  to 
prevent  their  ravages.  If  some  malady  which  does  not  yield  to  treatment  with  Bordeaux 
mixture  manifests  itself  on  isolated  plants  in  the  garden,  it  may  be  well  to  pull  up  these 
plants  and  burn  them. 

The  insects  which  attack  garden  plants  may  be  divided  into  two  groups — those  which 
eat  or  chew  the  fruit  or  foliage,  and  those  which  suck  the  plant  juices.  Eating  insects  may 
be  killed  usually  by  spraying  poisonous  solutions  or  dusting  powders  on  the  plants  which 
they  attack.  Arsenate  of  lead  is  the  poison  in  most  general  use  for  this  purpose.  This  sub- 
stance is  poisonous  to  persons  as  well  as  to  insects  and  must  be  used  with  care.  It  should 
not  be  applied  to  vegetables  that  are  to  be  used  soon.  All  vegetables  should  be  washed 
carefully  before   they   are  eaten,   regardless  of  wether  they  have  been  sprayed. 

Most  of  the  garden  plants  may  be  guarded  against  disease  and  at  the  same  time 
protected  from  attack  by  eating  insects  by  spraying  at  intervals  of  two  weeks  with  a  com- 
bination of  Bordeaux  mixture  and  arsenate  of  lead. 

Other  methods  of  protecting  plants  from  the  larger  eating  insects  are  to  pick  the 
pests  by  hand  or  knock  them  with  a  stick  into  a  pan  containing  water  on  which  a  thin  film 
of  kerosene  is  floating.  Insects  collected  by  hand  should  be  destroyed  promptly.  Young 
plants  may  be  protected  by  setting  over  them  wooden  frames  covered  with  mosquito  net- 
ting, wire  mesh,  or  cheesecloth.  Cutworms  may  be  kept  from  plants  by  setting  tin  or  paper 
collars  into  the  ground  around  the  stalks. 

Sucking  insects,  such  as  plant  lice,  cannot  be  killed  by  poisoning  the  surface  of 
the  leaves  and  fruit,  since  they  feed  by  puncturing  the  plants  and  extracting  the  internal 
juices.  Poisons  which  will  kill  by  contact  or  substances  which  envelop  and  smother  the 
pests  are,  therefore,  employed  against  the  sucking  insects.  The  principal  remedies  of  this 
sort  are  nicotine  solutions,  fish-oil  and  other  soap  solutions,  and  kerosene  emulsion. 


PRINCIPAL    INSECTS    AND    REMEDIES.* 


Insect 

Plants  attacked. 

Treatment 

Eating  type: 

Hand   pick  or  spray  with   arsenate  of   lead. 

Hand  pick  or  apply  arsenate  of  lead. 

Cover  with  frames.     Apply  tobacco  dust  or  spray  with  Bordeaux  mix- 

ture or  arsenate  of  lead. 

Cabbage   group    and   other   plants.... 

pick;   apply  Paris  green   or  arsenate  of  lead. 

Sucking  type: 

Spray    with    kerosene    emulsion,    a    solution    of    hard    soap,    or    nicotine 
sulphate. 

Gardeners  desiring  additional  information  in  regard  to  insects  affecting  the  vegetable  garden  should  apply  direct  to  the  Bureau  of  Ento- 
mology, United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,  but  it  should  be  understood  that  there  is  no  publication  covering  the  entire  subject.  Specimens 
of  insects  with  some   account  of  food  plants   and   ravages  should   accompany   correspondence. 


*  Methods    of   protecting    gardens   against    grasshoppers  are  given  in  Farmers*  Bulletin  691,  *'Grass- 
hoppers    and    Their    Control    on    Sugar   Beets    and    Truck   Crops." 


KITCHEN   GARDEN— PLANTING  AND  ROTATIONS  491 

The  preceding  table  lists  the  insects  most  likely  to  appear  in  the  vegetable  garden 
and  furnishes  information  in  regard  to  plants  attacked  and  the  treatment  recommended. 

Transplanting  should  be  done  if  possible  in  cloudy  weather  or  late  in  the  afternoon. 
If  the  weather  is  especially  bright  it  may  be  necessary  for  a  day  or  two  to  shade  the  plants 
with  newspapers'  folded  in  inverted  V  shape  and  held  in  place  with  stones,  earth,  or  other 
material. 

The  quickest  crop  to  mature  is  the  radish.  Lettuce,  turnips,  peas,  beets,  and  beans 
usually  require  6  to  9  weeks  to  mature;  cabbage,  potatoes,  early  peas,  onion  sets,  and  salad 
greens,   1  0  to  12  weeks;  corn  from  11   to  13  weeks,  and  potatoes  from   15  to   16  weeks. 

SUCCESSIONS  AND  ROTATIONS 

Since  a  number  of  vegetables  reach  maturity  early  in  the  season,  it  is  possible  to 
utilize  the  space  they  occupied  for  successive  plantings  of  the  same  vegetables  or  for  rota- 
tion plantings  of  different  plants.  The  earliest  of  all  the  vegetables  to  mature  is  the  radish. 
The  gardener  generally  can  count  on  being  able  to  utilize  anew  the  space  occupied  by  the 
first  planting  of  these  vegetables  in  from  5  to  7  weeks,  depending  on  the  rapidity  with 
which  they  are  consumed.  In  intensive  gardening,  however,  it  is  not  necessary  to  wait 
until  all  the  radishes  of  the  first  planting  have  been  removed  before  other  plantings  can  be 
made.  Enough  of  the  roots  can  be  removed  at  intervals  to  make  places  for  setting  lettuce, 
cabbage,  cauliflower,  Brussels  sprouts,  or  other  plants,  and  the  two  crops — radishes  and  the 
interplanted  crop — can  continue  growing  side  by  side  until  the  former  is  used.  In  a  similar 
way,  onion  sets  may  be  set  out  in  rows  that  are  to  be  occupied  later  by  tomato  plants,  room 
being  made  for  the  latter  by  the  removal  of  a  few  onions  when  the  proper  planting  time  for 
tomatoes  arrives.  Various  combinations  of  this  sort  can  be  worked  out  between  quick- 
maturing  crops  and  the  plants  grown  in  frames  or  seed  beds  for  later  planting  in  the  open. 

The  gardener  should  not  plant  all  of  his  radish,  lettuce,  or  spinach  seed  at  once, 
but  should  make  several  successive  plantings  at  intervals  of  about  two  weeks.  In  this  way 
the  season  for  these  vegetables  will  be  lengthened  greatly.  Successive  planting  is  possible 
also  with  beets,  peas,  beans,  sweet  corn,  and  a  number  of  other  vegetables.  The  best  of 
the  successive  crops  of  the  quick-maturing  vegetables  must  be  crowded  into  the  early  part 
of  the  season,  since  most  such  plants  do  not  thrive  well  when  planted  in  hot  weather.  This 
is  especially  true  of  radishes  and  lettuce.  In  thhe  case  of  lettuce  this  disadvantage  can  be 
overcome  to  a  certain  extent  by  artificial  shading. 

In  all  sections  but  the  extreme  north  it  usually  is  possible  to  grow  fall  crops  of  cer- 
tain vegetables,  notably  carrots,  beans,  radishes,  Irish  potatoes,  and  turnips.  In  the  southern 
part  of  the  country  an  even  larger  number  of  vegetables  may  be  grown  in  the  fall.  The 
seeds  for  these  late  crops  are  planted  from  July  to  September,  depending  on  whether  the 
garden  is  in  the  northern  or  southern  States. 

In  planting  rotations  of  crops,  whether  the  rotations  be  during  the  same  or  in  suc- 
ceeding seasons,  certain  general  principles  should  be  kept  in  mind.  In  type  and  character 
of  growth'  the  succeeding  plant  should  differ  as  widely  as  possible  from  the  plant  which  it 
follows.  This  is  both  for  the  purpose  of  avoiding  attacks  by  insects  and  diseases,  and  to 
insure  that  the  second  crop  shall  be  properly  nourished.  A  good  plan  is  not  to  have  root 
plants,  such  as  beets  and  carrots,  nor  plants  of  the  same  family,  such  as  cabbage  and  Brus- 
sels sprouts,  or  tomatoes  and  peppers,  follow  each  other.  It  is  well  to  divide  the  plants 
into  root  crops,  fruiting  crops,  and  foliage  crops,  and  have  members  of  the  different  groups 
alternate. 


492  THE   HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN   GARDEN 

For  the  convenience  of  gardeners  who  wish  to  plan  to  use  their  soil  to  best  advan- 
tage by  means  of  successive  plantings  and  rotations,  the  following  groupings  of  vegetables 
are  made: 

1.  Crops  Occupying  the  Ground  All  Season — Asparagus,  rhubarb,  beans  (pole  snap),  beans  (pole 
Lima),  beets  (late),  carrots  (late),  parsnips,  salsify,  corn  (late),  cucumbers,  melons,  squash,  pumpkins, 
tomatoes,   eggplant,  peppers,   onions    (from  seeds),  leeks,   okra,  potatoes   (main  crop),  rutabagas. 

2.  Successive  Crops — Radish,  spinach,  lettuce,  peas,   beans    (dwarf),  parsley,   turnips,   kohl-rabi. 

3.  Early  Crops  Which  May  Be  Followed  by  Others* — Onion  sets,  beets  (early),  turnips  (early), 
carrots    (early),    corn    (early),   cabbage    (early). 

4.  Late  Crops  Which  May  Follow  Others! — Beets  (late),  spinach,  peas  (late),  celery,  cabbage 
(late),   Brussels  sprouts,   cauliflower,   kale,   endive,   flat  turnips. 

The  gardener  should  remember  that  many  plant  diseases  and  insects  exist  in  the  gar- 
den from  year  to  year.  At  the  end  of  the  growing  season,  therefore,  the  garden  should  be 
carefully  cleaned  of  rubbish,  the  stems  of  plants,  leaves,  etc.  It  is  necessary  to  burn  this 
debris  promptly,  as  any  disease  spores  or  insects  which  may  be  present  are  then  surely 
destroyed. 

CULTURAL  SUGGESTIONS  FOR  THE  COMMONER  VEGETABLES 

RADISH 

Radishes  are  so  hardy  that  they  may  be  grown  through  the  winter  in  cold  frames 
in  the  latitude  of  Washington  and  farther  South  in  the  open  ground.  In  the  North  they 
require  hotbeds,  but  can  be  sown  in  the  open  ground  as  soon  as  the  soil  is  moderately 
warm.  They  should  be  planted  in  drills  12  to  18  inches  apart  and  thinned  slightly  as  soon 
as  the  plants  are  up.  On  a  quick,  rich  soil  some  of  the  earlier  varieties  can  be  matured  in 
from  three  to  four  weeks  after  planting.  If  the  plants  are  allowed  to  remain  long  in  the 
open  ground,  the  roots  lose  their  crispness  and  delicate  flavor,  and  in  order  to  secure  a 
constant  supply  successive  planting  should  be  made  every  two  weeks.  One  ounce  of  radish 
seed  is  sufficient  to  plant  100  feet  of  row.  A  large  percentage  of  the  seed  germinates,  and 
if  the  sowing  is  done  carefully  later  thinning  may  be  unnecessary.  The  first  radishes  to 
appear  may  be  pulled  as  soon  as  they  are  of  sufficient  size,  and  this  will  leave  enough  room 
for  those  that  are  a  little  later,.  The  plant  is  not  suited  to  hot  weather,  but  should  be 
planted  in  the   early  spring  and  late  autumn. 

LETTUCE 

Lettuce  does  not  withstand  heat  well  and  thrives  best,  therefore,  in  the  early 
spring  or  late  autumn.  In  order  to  have  the  leaves  crisp  and  tender  it  is  necessary  to  force 
the  growth  of  the  plant.  The  usual  method  of  growing  lettuce  for  home  use  is  to  sow  the 
seeds  broadcast  in  the  bed  and  to  remove  the  leaves  as  rapidly  as  they  become  large 
enough  for  use.  It  is  better,  however,  to  sow  the  seeds  in  rows  1 4  to  16  inches  apart, 
and  when  the  plants  come  up  to  thin  them  to  the  desired  distance.  With  the  heading  type 
this  should  be  about  1 2  inches  apart.  This  will  result  in  the  formation  of  rather  compact 
heads  and  the  entire  plant  may  then  be  cut  for  use.  For  an  early  crop  in  the  North,  the 
plants  should  be  started  in  a  hotbed  or  cold  frame  and  transplanted  as  soon  as  hard 
freezes  are  over.  In  many  sections  of  the  South  the  seeds  are  sown  during  the  autumn 
and  the  plant  allowed  to  remain  in  the  ground  over  winter.  Frequent  shallow  cultivation 
should  be  given  the  crop  and,  if  crisp,  tender  letuce  is  desired  during  the  summer  months, 
some  form   of  partial  shading  may  be  necessary. 

For  head  lettuce,  Big  Boston,  Hanson,  and  California  Cream  Butter  are  good 
varieties.      For  loose-leaf  lettuce,   Grand  Rapids  or  Black-seeded  Simpson  is  recommended. 


*  In  addition  to  the  vegetables  listed  in  this  group,  all  of  those  listed  in  Group   2  may  be  followed 
by  other  crops. 

t  Group  2  crops  also  may  follow  early  crops. 


KITCHEN  GARDEN— CULTURED  SUGGESTIONS  493 

PEAS 

Garden  peas  are  not  injured  easily  by  light  frosts  and  may  be  planted  as  soon  as 
the  soil  can  be  put  in  order  in  the  spring.  By  selecting  a  number  of  varieties  it  is  possible 
to  have  a  continuous  supply  of  peas  throughout  a  large  portion  of  the  growing  season.  In 
order  to  accomplish  this,  plantings  should  be  made  every  ten  days  or  2  weeks  until  warm 
weather  comes.  The  first  plantings  should  be  of  small-growing,  quick-maturing  varieties, 
such  as  Alaska,  First  and  Best,  and  Gradus.  These  kinds  do  not  require  supports.  They 
should  be  followed  by  the  large  wrinkled  type  of  peas,  such  as  Champion  of  England,  Tele- 
phone, and  Prize  Taker.  These  may  be  supported  on  brush,  on  strings  attached  to  stakes 
driven  in  the  ground,   or  on  wire  netting. 

Peas  should  be  planted  about  2  to  3  inches  deep  in  rows  3  to  4  feet  apart  Some 
gardeners,  however,  follow  the  practice  of  planting  in  double  rows  6  inches  apart,  with 
the  ordinary  space  of  3  to  4  feet  between  these  pairs  of  rows.  With  varieties  requiring 
support  this  is  a  good  practice,  as  the  supports  can  be  placed  in  the  narrow  space  between 
the  rows.  ;  /  , 

ONIONS 

The  onion  will  thrive  under  a  wide  range  of  climate  and  soil  conditions,  but  a  rich 
sandy  loam  containing  plenty  of  humus  is  best  suited  to  it.  As  the  crop  requires  shallow 
cultivation  and  it  may  be  necessary  to  resort  to  hand  work  in  order  to  keep  it  free  from 
weeds,  it  is  very  desirable  that  the  land  should  be  in  such  condition  that  it  is  easily  worked. 
As  a  general  rule,  it  is  well  to  have  the  crop  follow  some  other  that  has  been  kept  under 
the  hoe  and  free  from  weeds  the  previous  season. 

In  the  North  seed  is  sown  as  early  in  the  spring  as  the  soil  can  be  brought  to  the 
proper  condition.  In  the  South,  onion  sets  are  frequently  put  out  in  the  autumn  and  carried 
through  the  winter  with  the  protection  of  a  little  hay  or  straw.  There  are  three  methods 
of  propagating  onions:  The  first  by  sowing  the  seed  in  rows  where  the  crop  is  to  grow; 
second,  by  sowing  the  seed  in  specially  prepared  beds  and  transplanting  the  seedlings  to 
the  open  ground;  and,  third,  by  planting  sets  which  have  been  kept  through  the  winter. 
The  first  method  is  used  by  large  commercial  growers  on  account  of  the  amount  of  labor 
involved  in  the  others. 

On  small  areas,  however,  it  may  be  preferable  to  plant  sets.  Under  normal  condi- 
tions these  usually  may  be  obtained  at  planting  time  for  about  25  or  30  cents  a  quart.  This 
should  be  enough  for  the  average  family.  Onions  planted  from  sets  will  ripen  earlier  than 
those  from  seed  sown  in  the  fields. 

When  the  transplanting  method  is  used,  the  seed  is  sown  in  greenhouses,  hotbeds, 
cold  frames,  or  specially  prepared  beds  at  the  rate  of  3  J/2  to  4  pounds  for  each  acre  to  be 
planted.  One-half  ounce  should  furnish  plants  sufficient  for  the  home  garden.  The  seedlings 
are  transplanted  when  they  are  somewhat  smaller  than  a  lead  pencil  and  rather  stocky.  The 
root  end  of  the  seedling  is  pushed  into  the  soil  with  one  finger,  and  the  soil  is  then  firmed 
about  the  plant. 

The  seed  is  sown  thickly  in  drills  about  12  to  14  inches  apart.  After  the  plants 
become  established  they  are  thinned  to  2  or  3  inches  apart.  The  maturity  of  the  bulbs 
may  be  hastened  by  preventing  the  continued  growth  of  the  tops.  This  is  sometimes  ac- 
complished by  rolling  an  empty  barrel  over  the  rows  and  breaking  down  the  tops.  After 
these  are  practically  dead  the  onion  bulbs  may  be  pulled  up  by  hand  from  the  soil  and 
spread  in  a  dry,  well-ventilated  place  to  cure.  Thereafter  they  may  be  stored  in  crates  or 
bags  for  winter  use.  In  the  North  the  crop  ripens  and  is  harvested  during  the  latter  part 
of  the  summer  and  early  autumn.  In  the  Southern  States,  where  the  crop  is  grown  during 
the  winter,   the  harvesting  and  marketing  period  takes  place  during  the  spring  months. 


494  THE   HOME-KEEPING   BOOK-^Section   XI— KITCHEN    GARDEN 


There  are  several  kinds  of  onions  that  may  remain  in  the  soil  over  winter.  The 
multiplier,  or  potato  onion,  for  example,  can  be  planted  from  sets  in  the  autumn  and  will 
produce  excellent  green  early  onions.  A  large  onion  of  this  type  contains  a  number  of  dis- 
tinct hearts,  and,  if  planted,  will  produce  a  number  of  small  onions.  On  the  other  hand, 
a  small  onion  contains  but  one  heart  and  will  produce  a  large  onion.  A  few  of  the  large 
ones  may  be  planted  each  year  to  produce  sets  for  the  following  year's  planting. 

The  shallot  is  a  variety  of  small  onion  that  is  frequently  planted  in  early  spring 
for  its  small  bulbs,  or  "cloves,"  which  are  used  in  the  same  manner  as  onions.  The  leaves 
are  utilized  for  flavoring.  Another  onion-like  plant  is  the  chive,  the  small,  round,  hollow 
leaves  of  which  are  used  for  flavoring  soups.  These  leaves  may  be  cut  freely,  as  they  are 
soon  replaced  by  others. 

THE  PRINCIPAL  ROOT  CROPS 

Beets  can  be  planted  comparatively  early  in  the  season.  It  is  not  necessary  to  wait 
until  the  ground  has  become  warm,  if  the  danger  of  frost  is  past.  The  seed  should  be 
sown  in  drills  1 4  to  18  inches  apart  and  covered  to  a  depth  of  about  I  inch.  As  soon  as 
the  plants  are  well  up  they  should  be  thinned  to  stand  3  to  4  inches  apart.  From  2  to  3 
plantings  should  be  made  in  order  to  have  a  continuous  supply  of  young,  tender  beets. 

Parsnips,  salsify,  carrots,  and  turnips  are  all  handled  much  like  beets.  Of  the  five, 
carrots  can  perhaps  be  left  closer  in  the  row  than  the  others,  about  2  or  3  inches  apart. 
This  plant,  too,  is  less  exacting  in  so  far  as  fertility  is  concerned.  Salsify,  on  the  other  hand, 
demands  very  fertile  and  finely  cultivated  soil. 

POTATOES*  . 

The  potato  plant  thrives  best  in  sandy  or  gravelly  loam  soils.  It  may  be  grown 
with  a  fair  degree  of  success  on  any  type  of  soil  except  loose  sand  and  a  heavy,  sticky  clay, 
provided  the  land  is  well'  drained  and  contains  the  necessary  plant  food. 

Successful  potato  production  is  dependent  to  a  large  extent  on  the  thoroughness 
with  which  the  land  is  prepared  before  planting  the  crop.  Where  a  horse  can  be  used, 
the  land  should  be  plowed  from  8  to  1 0  inches  deep,  provided  the  surface  soil  is  of  a 
sufficient  depth  to  permit  it.  It  is  never  advisable  to  turn  up  more  than  1  inch  of  raw  sub- 
soil at  any  one  plowing;  so  if  previous  plowings  have  not  been  over  6  inches,  the  maximum 
depth  at  which  it  should  be  plowed  is  7  inches. 

Where  hand  labor  is  employed  the  same  rule  should  govern  as  to  depth.'  In  spad- 
ing, especially  on  grass  or  waste  land,  turn  the  earth  bottom  side  up.  Whether  the  land 
is  plowed  or  spaded,  it  should  be  thoroughly  pulverized  immediately  afterwards.  Where 
horse  labor  can  be  used,  the  land  after  plowing  should  be  thoroughly  disked  first,  then 
spring-toothed,  and  finally  finished  with  a  smoothing  harrow.  Where  land  must'  be  pre- 
pared by  hand,  it  is  good  practice  to  pulverize  the  soil  as  much  as  possible  when  spading 
it  up,  after  which  it  can  be  put  in  a  fine  condition  of  mellowness  with  a  steel  garden  rake. 
The  importance  of  thoroughly  fining  the  soil  cannot  be  overemphasized. 

Varieties  Adapted  to  Different  Localities 

Early  Varieties — In  the  Northeastern  United  States  and  along  the  South  Atlantic 
seaboard,  the  Irish  Cobbler,  Early  Petoskey,  or  Early  Standard,  all  of  which  are  practically 
identical,  may  be  expected  to  produce  larger  crops  and  be  more  generally  satisfactory  for 
an  early  crop  than  the  others  mentioned.  Quick  Lunch  and  New  Queen  would  be  regarded 
as  second  choices  for  this  section. 

In  the  South  Central  and  Southwestern  States,  the  Triumph  may  be  expected  to 
give  results  equal  to  or  even  better  than  the  Irish  Cobbler. 

*  Circular   87    of  tke  Bureau  of  Entomology  deals   with    the    Colorado    potato    beetle,    and    Farmers" 
Bulletin    557    deals  with   the  potato    tuber  moth. 


KITCHEN  GARDEN— CULTURED  SUGGESTIONS  495 

In  the  Middle  West,  the  Early  Ohio  should  do  well,  while  the  Early  Harvest  and 
Early  Rose  may  be  regarded  as  second  choices. 

Late  Varieties — In  the  New  England  States,  Long  Island,  and  northern  New  York, 
the  Green  Mountain,  Gold  Coin,  Delaware,  and  other  late  varieties  of  that  class  do  best 

In  northern  Michigan,  Wisconsin,  and  Minnesota,  the  late  varieties  named  above 
do  about  as  well  as  the  Rural  New  Yorker  No.  2,  and  are  superior  to  it  in  table  quality. 

In  western  New  York,  southern  Michigan  and  Wisconsin,  and  Iowa,  the  Rural  New 
Yorker  No.  2,  Sir  Walter  Raleigh,  and  Carman  No.  3  are  the  best  adapted  varieties,  and 
divide  honors  with  the  Green  mountain  in  the  northern  portions  of  these  States. 

Throughout  Maryland,  Virginia,  the  Carolinas,  Tennessee,  and  Georgia,  the  variety 
known  as  McCormick  is  quite  generally  grown  as  a  late  variety.  In  a  favorable  season  the 
Green  Mountain  can  also  be  grown. 

When  to  Plant  Potatoes 

The  date  of  planting  necessarily  must  be  governed  by  climatic  conditions.  In  at- 
tempting to  produce  as  early  a  crop  as  possible  some  risk  must  always  be  incurred  of  the 
plants  being  injured  by  late  spring  frosts.  As  a  general  proposition  it  is  best  to  plant  pota- 
toes as  soon  as  there  is  little  likelihood  of  killing  frosts  after  the  plants  are  up  and  the  ground 
is  in  condition  to  work. 

The  following  dates  of  planting  for  various  cities  should  be  regarded  only  as  the 
approximate  time  at  which  early  potatoes  might  safely  be  planted: 

March  15  to  25:  Washington,  Baltimore,  Philadelphia,  Cincinnati,  Louisville,  St. 
Louis. 

March  25   to  April  5:      New  York,   Indianapolis,  Detroit,  Chicago. 

April  5   to   15:      Boston,  Albany,  Rochester,  etc. 

In  the  northern  cities,  late  varieties  should  be  planted  from  three  to  four  weeks 
later. 

Planting  Practices 

The  usual  method  of  preparing  potatoes  for  planting  is  to  cut  them  into  rather 
large  pieces,  containing  several  eyes.  When  seed  potatoes  are  unusually  expensive,  however, 
it  may  be  well  to  cut  cone-shaped  segments  of  meat  around  each  eye  and  to  use  the  remain- 
ing portion  of  the  tubers  for  food.  Under  this  plan  it  is  not  necessary  to  prepare  the  seed 
all  at  one  time.  From  day  to  day  the  cones  for  seeding  can  be  cut  from  the  potatoes  as 
they  are  being  prepared  for  the  table.  The  cuttings  then  should  be  spread  out  on  a  piece 
of  paper  in  a  moderately  cool  room  (about  50  degrees  F. )  and  allowed  to  remain  there 
until  they  have  cured;  that  is,  until  the  cut  surface  has  become  dry.  A  day  or  two  should 
suffice  for  this,  and  potatoes  then  should  be  put  in  a  shallow  box  or  tray  and  placed  where 
it  is  still  cooler.  Any  storage  condition  that  will  insure  them  against  frost  on  the  one  hand 
and  undue  shriveling  on  the  other  should  prove   satisfactory. 

These  seeds  can  be  started  indoors,  provided  it  is  possible  to  secure  suitable  soil 
and  boxes.  In  such  cases  it  may  be  desirable  to  plant  the  eye  cuttings  at  once,  and  allow 
them  to  start  into  growth  indoors  with  the  idea  of  transplanting  them  into  the  open  ground 
when  danger  of  frost  is  past  and  the  ground  is  dry  enough  to  be  cultivated. 

The  smaller  the  size  of  the  set,  or  seed  piece,  used  the  more  thorough  must  be  the 
preparation  of  the  soil.  The  more  finely  the  soil  is  pulverized  and  the  more  uniform  the 
moisture  conditions  which  can  be  preserved  in  the  soil,  the  better  is  the  chance  for  the  small 
seed  piece  to  establish  itself.  A  small  set  in  rough,  lumpy,  or  dried-out  soil  has  little 
chance  to  live. 

Generally  speaking,  the  smaller  the  size  of  the  set  the  closer  it  should  be  planted 
in  the  row  if  maximum  yields  are  to  be  secured.     Such  sets  may  be  expected  to  give  the 


496 


THE   HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN   GARDEN 


best  yields  if  not  spaced  more  than  10  to  12  inches  apart  in  the  row.  Plant  the  small  eye 
cuttings  from  1  J/2  to  3  inches  deep,  depending  upon  the  character  of  the  soil — the  lighter 
the  soil  the  greater  the  depth  of  planting.     Larger  sets  may  be  planted  4  inches  deep. 

Spacing 

If  an  early  variety  is  planted,  and  the  work  is  to  be  done  by  hand,  the  rows  may 
be  spaced  as  close  as  26  inches,  whereas,  if  cultivation  is  to  be  done  with  a  horse,  30  to  34 
inches  usually  is  allowed.  In  order  to  give  the  gardener  some  idea  of  the  number  of  sets 
required  to  plant  a  plot  of  ground  50  by  100  feet  at  different  spacings,  the  following  table 
is  submitted: 


TO    PLANT   A    PLAT  50   BY    100    FEET. 

Space 

Space 

Space 

Space 

between 

in  row 

Sets 

between 

In  row 

Sets 

rowa. 

between 
plants. 

required. 

rows. 

between 
plants. 

required. 

Inches. 

Inches. 

Inches, 

Inches. 

26 

10 

2,789 

30 

10 

2,400 

28 

12 

2.487 

30 

12 

2,000 

28 

10 

2.678 

32 

12 

1.874 

28 

12 

2.231 

84 

12 

1.765 

If  a  late  variety  is  planted,  the  spacing  should  be  greater,  say,  34  to  36  inches 
between  the  rows  and  12  to  14  inches  between  the  plants  in  the  row.  The  closeness  of 
planting  should  be  determined,  first,  by  the  variety,  and,  second,  by  the  amount  of  available 
plant  food  and  moisture  in  the  soil  or  that  can  be  applied  to  it. 

CORN 

Corn  to  be  at  its  best  should  be  eaten  within  a  few  Hours  after  it  is  picked,  for  its 
sugar  content  disappears  very  rapidly  after  it  is  removed  from  the  garden.  For  this  reason 
and  because  of  its  very  general  popularity  it  is  an  excellent  vegetable  to  grow  in  the  home 
garden.  It  should  be  planted  on  rich  land  and  cultivated  in  the  same  manner  as  field  corn. 
Beginning  as  soon  as  the  soil  is  warm,  successive  plantings  may  be  made  every  two  or  three 
weeks  until  late  summer.  Another  method  of  prolonging  the  supply  is  to  plant  early, 
medium,  and  late  varieties.  The  seed  should  be  planted  about  2  inches  deep,  in  drills  3 
feet  apart,  and  thinned  to  a  single  stalk  every  1 0  to   14  inches. 

The  following  varieties  are  recommended:  For  early  corn,  Golden  Bantam  and 
Adams  Early,  and  for  medium  and  late  varieties,  Black  Mexican  or  Crosby's  Early,  Coun- 
try Gentleman,  and  Stowell's  Evergreen.  The  last-named  variety  has  the  largest  ears  and 
is  the  most  productive. 

Corn  should  be  planted  on  rich  land.  The  cultivation  should  be  frequent  and 
thorough  and  all  weeds  should  be  kept  down  and  suckers  removed  from  around  the  base 
of  the  plant. 

TOMATOES 

Tomato  plants  should  be  started  in  the  house  or  in  a  hotbed  and  should  be  trans- 
planted once  or  twice  in  order  that  strong  and  vigorous  plants  may  be  secured  by  the 
time  all  danger  from  frost  is  past.  Pot-grown  plants  are  especially  desirable,  as  they  may 
be  brought  to  the  blooming  period  by  the  time  it  is  warm  enough  to  plant  them  with 
safety  in  the  garden.  If  the  plants  are  not  to  be  trained,  but  are  to  be  allowed  to  lie  on 
the  ground,  they  should  be  set  about  4  feet  apart  each  way.  If  trimmed  and  tied  to  stakes 
they  may  be  planted  in  rows  3  feet  apart  and  1 8  inches  apart  in  the  row.  The  home 
gardener  will  find  the  latter  method  preferable.  '  ' 


KITCHEN  GARDEN— CULTURED  SUGGESTIONS  497 

In  common  with  all  plants  grown  in  a  house,  hotbed,  or  cold  frame,  tomatoes 
require  to  be  hardened  off  before  they  are  planted  in  the  garden.  By  this  process  the  plants 
are  gradually  acclimated  to  the  effects  of  the  sun  and  wind,  so  that  they  will  stand  trans- 
planting to  the  open  ground.  Hardening  off  usually  is  accompanied  by  ventilating  freely 
and  by  reducing  the  amount  of  water  applied  to  the  plant  bed.  The  bed,  however,  should 
not  become  so  dry  that  the  plants  will  wilt  or  become  seriously  checked  in  their  growth. 
Aftef  a  few  days  it  will  be  possible  to  leave  the  plants  uncovered  during  the  entire  day  and 
on  mild  nights. 

EGGPLANTS  AND  PEPPERS 

Eggplants  and  peppers  are  started  and  handled  in  the  same  way  as  the  tomato. 
The  soil  best  adapted  for  their  production  is  a  fine,  rich,  sandy  loam,  well  drained.  The 
plants  should  be  set  in  rows  3  feet  apart  and  2  feet  apart  in  the  row.  Free  cultivation  is 
desirable,  and  the  plants  should  be  kept  growing  rapidly.  A  dozen  good  healthy  plants 
each  of  eggplant  and  pepper  should  supply  enough  fruits  for  the  average  sized  family 
throughout  the  season.  Both  of  these  vegetables  are  heat-loving  and  should  not  be  set 
in  the  open  until  the  ground  has  become  warm. 


BEANS 

Beans  are  more  susceptible  to  cold  that  peas  and  should  not  be  planted  until  dan- 
ger of  frost  is  past  and  the  ground  begins  to  warm  up.  They  are,  however,  among  the 
most  desirable  vegetables  that  the  home  gardener  can  raise.  There  are  many  different  kinds 
and  varieties  of  beans,  but  for  garden  purposes  they  may  be  divided  into  two  classes — 
string  and  Lima.  Both  classes  are  grown  in  practically  all  parts  of  the  United  States  where 
the  frost-free  period  is  greater  than  three  months  and  adapt  themselves  to  a  wide  diversity 
of  soils  and  climate.  They  grow  rapidly,  and,  therefore,  leave  the  area  in  which  they 
have  been  planted  free  for  another  crop.  To  secure  a  continuous  supply,  it  is  desirable 
to  make  plantings  at  intervals  of  1 0  days  or  2  weeks  from  the  time  that  the  ground  is 
reasonably  warm  until  hot  weather  sets  in. 

Both  string  and  Lima  beans  are  subdivided  into  pole  and  bush  types.  Pole  Lima 
beans  should  be  planted  with  from  8  to  1 0  seeds  in  the  hill,  and  after  the  plants  become 
established  should  be  thinned  to  3  or  4.  The  hills  should  be  4  or  5  feet  apart.  Bush  Lima 
beans  are  planted  5  or  6  inches  apart  in  rows  30  to  36  inches  apart.  Bush  beans  of  the 
string  type  may  be  planted  somewhat  closer — the  plants  standing  3  or  4  inches  apart  in 
rows  from  20  to  24  inches  apart  if  hand  cultivation  only  is  to  be  employed. 

Beans  of  any  kind  should  not  be  planted  any  deeper  than  is  necessary  to  secure 
good  germination.  This  should  never  be  over  2  inches  and  on  heavy  soil  it  should  not  be 
more  than  1  j/£  to  1  }/i  inches. 

Beans  are  useful  in  the  home  garden,  since  they  thrive  on  practically  any  type  of 
soil.  The  pole  varieties  are  especially  convenient,  since  they  can  be  planted  along  the  edges 
of  the  yard  and  permitted  to  climb  on  the  fences.  Some  of  the  pole  beans,  both  snap  and 
Lima,  will  continue  to  bear  until  frost.  If  the  pole  beans  are  planted  in  the  hills  in  the 
garden  proper,  it  will  be  necessary  to  sink  a  pole  at  each  hill  or  to  provide  some  other 
form  of  support.  Extra  long  poles  may  be  used  and  the  tops  of  three  or  four  different 
hills  fastened  together  tent  fashion.  If  it  is  desired  to  keep  the  garden  free  from  poles, 
substantial  posts  may  be  set  at  each  end  of  the  row  and  a  wire  or  strong  cord  stretched 
between  their  tops.  Cords  may  then  be  extended  from  small  stakes  in  each  hill  to  the 
wire. 


498  THE   HOME-KEEPING   BOOK— Section   XI— KITCHEN    GARDEN 

CUCUMBERS,  SQUASHES,  AND  MELONS 

Cucumbers,  squashes,  *  and  melons  all  belong  to  the  melon  family  and  demand  much 
the  same  treatment.  All  are  heat-loving  and  should  not  be  planted  in  the  open  until  the 
ground  has  become  warm.  It  is  easily  possible,  however,  to  give  the  plants  an  early  start 
in  the  house  and  so  gain  several  weeks  in  earliness  of  maturity.  One  way  is  to  plant  seven, 
or  eight  seeds  in  berry  boxes  filled  with  soil.  Each  box  of  growing  plants  should  have  its 
bottom  removed  at  planting  time  and  should  then  be  sunk  in  the  garden  to  constitute  a 
hill  of  plants. 

Instead  of  growing  the  plants  in  boxes  of  ordinary  soil  they  may  be  grown  on  sods 
in  a  suitable  receptacle.  Cut  sods  6  inches  square  from  spots  which  the  growth  of  grass 
shows  to  be  rich.  Turn  these  g<ass  side  down  and  press  the  seeds  in  among  the  roots  and 
soil.  Cover  with  about  an  inch%nd  a  half  of  good  soil  and  keep  moist  and  warm.  At 
planting  time  the  sods  may  be  Trfted  and  placed  in  hills,  which  first  should  have  manure 
worked  into  them. 

■These  plants  are  rank  growers  and  occupy  much  space.  In  very  small  gardens  it 
may  be  well,  therefore,  to  omit  them.  If  squashes  a||s.  grown,  it  may  be  well  to  plant  only 
bunch  varieties.  Space  may  be  conserved  by  growing  a  few  cucumber  vines  near  the  edge 
of  the  garden  and  training  them  on  a  fence.  This  is  possible,  too,  of  course,  with  some 
melons  and  pumpkins,  but  supports  will  be  necessary  for  the  fruits.  If  the  plants  of  this 
group  are  grown  in  the  main  garden,  they  must  be  spaced  from  6  to  1 2  feet  apart  each 
way. 

CABBAGE,  CAULIFLOWER,  AND  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

Cabbage  and  the  other  two  members  of  the  cabbage  family  mentioned  here  require 
much  the  same  treatment.f  All  three  are  grown  in  hotbeds,  frames,  or  flats  for  the  early 
crop  and  are  set  out  when  all  danger  of  frost  is  past.  Of  the  three,  Brussels  sprouts  is 
the  hardiest.  Cabbage  is  fairly  hardy,  but  cauliflower  is  somewhat  tender.  All  require 
rather  moist  soil  and  plenty  of  plant  food.  Fertilizer  may  be  conserved  by  placing  it  under 
each  "hill"  before  the  plants  are  set.  The  settings  should  be  made  18  to  24  inches  apart 
in  rows  spaced  about  24  inches. 

MISCELLANEOUS  SALAD  VEGETABLES 

Besides  lettuce  there  are  a  number  of  vegetables  for  use  as  salads  or  cooked  greens 
that  may  be  grown  easily  in  the  home  garden.  Of  the  salad  plants,  corn  salad,  garden 
cress,  and  endive  are  perhaps  best  known.  The  first  two  may  be  planted  early.  Endive, 
however,  is  planted  in  June  and  July.  All  are  grown  in  drills  about  14  inches  apart  and 
are  thinned  to  proper  distances  as  they  grow. 

Spinach  and  mustard  are  useful  greens  for  cooking.  Spinach  may  be  grown  either 
in  the  spring  or  in  the  fall.  It  is  grown  in  drills,  the  use  of  the  larger  plants  first  auto- 
matically taking  care  of  thinning. 

Mustard  greens  may  be  produced  on  almost  any  good  soil.  The  basal  leaves  are 
used  for  greens  and  are  cooked  like  spinach.  The  plants  require  but  a  short  time  to  reach 
the  proper  stage  for  use  and  frequent  sowings  should  be  made.  The  seeds  are  sowed 
thickly  in  drills  as  early  as  possible  in  spring  or  for  late  use  in  September  or  October. 
Ostrich  Plume  is  a  reliable  variety. 

For  use  both  as  a  salad  plant  and  for  cooked  greens  Swiss  chard,  a  beet  which  has 
been  developed  for  foliage,  should  be  more  extensively  grown.  One  of  the  good  points 
about  this  vegetable  is  that  crop  after  crop  of  leaves  may  be  cut  without  injuring  the  plant. 
Chard  is  planted  like  beets  in  drills  12  to  14  inches  apart  and  thinned  to  4  to  6  inches. 

*  An  insect  that  attacks  squashes  and  other  crops  of  this  class  is  described  in  Farmers'  Bulletin  668, 
"The  Squash-vine  Borer." 

t  Accounts  of  two  insects  that  attack  cabbage  are  given  in  Farmers'  Bulletin  766,  "The  Common 
Cabbage    Worm,"    and    Circular    103    of   the   Bureau  of  Entomology,    "The   Harlequin   Cabbage    Bug." 


KITCHEN  GARDEN— CULTURED  SUGGESTIONS  499 

PERMANENT  VEGETABLES 

A  number  of  vegetables,  once  established,  will  furnish  a  supply  of  their  products 
year  after  year.  Asparagus,  rhubarb,  and  a  number  of  garnishing  and  flavoring  herbs  are 
the  best-known  members  of  this  group.  Because  they  permanently  occupy  the  space  in  which 
they  grow,  such  plants  should  be  in  beds  separated  from  the  cultivated  vegetables. 

For  the  asparagus  bed  a  well  drained,  early  location  should  be  chosen.  Prepare 
the  bed  by  digging  a  trench  18  inches  wide  and  20  inches  deep.  Fill  this  one-third  full 
with  well-rotted  manure  and  tramp  it  down  well.  Half  fill  the  remaining  space  with  good 
soil,  and  on  this  set  the  root  clumps  of  asparagus,  1  foot  apart.  Such  roots,  one,  two,  or 
three  years  old,  may  be  purchased  from  seedsmen  or  nurseries.  Cover  the  roots  by  filling 
the  trench  to  the  surface  of  the  ground  with  good  soil.  The  stalks  should  not  be  cut  until 
a  year  after  planting,  and  then  but  lightly.  Full  harvests  aiay  be  taken  after  this.  From  a 
dozen  to  two  dozen  roots  should  be  enough  for  the  average  family. 

Rhubarb  is  also  grown  from  root  clumps.  A  row  of  six  or  eight  plants,  4  feet 
apart,  should  furnish  stalks  enough  for  the  average  family.  Each  hill  should  be  well  pre- 
pared with  manure  and  good  soil.  Seethe  crowns  about  4  inches  underground.  Stalks 
should  not  be  cut  until  a  year  after  planting.  v 

Parsley  seeds  are  sown  in  a  drill  in  spring.  The  plants  ▼ill  die  down  in  the  fall 
and  put  out  fresh  foliage  the  next  spring.  The  plant  is  a  biennial  and  must  be  replanted  at 
two-year  intervals. 

Sage  is  a  useful  perennial  herb  which  can  be  grown  easily  in  the  home  garden. 
One  or  two  bushes  will  furnish  an  abundance  of  leaves.  These,  when  full  grown,  should 
be  thoroughly  dried  and  stored  in  cans  or  jars. 

ANNUAL  PLANTS  USED  FOR  SEASONING 

Chives  are  small  onionlike  plants  having  flat,  hollow  leaves.  These  are  cut  and  used 
for  flavoring  soups,  sauces,  etc.  The  plants  are  propagated  by  bulbs.  A  patch  of  the 
plants  a  foot  or  so  square  should  be  enough  for  the  home  garden. 

Okra,  or  gumbo,  produces  pods  which  are  used  to  season  and  thicken  soups.  The 
seeds  of  okra  should  be  sown  in  the  open  after  the  ground  has  become  quite  warm,  or  the 
plants  may  be  started  in  berry  boxes  in  the  hotbed  or  in  the  house  and  transplanted  in  the 
garden  after  all  danger  of  frost  has  passed.  The  rows  should  be  4  feet  apart  for  the  dwarf 
sorts  and  5  feet  apart  for  the  tall  kinds,  with  the  plants  2  feet  apart  in  the  row.*  If  the 
pods  are  removed  before  they  are  allowed  to  ripen,  the  plants  will  continue  to  produce 
them  until  killed  by  frost. 

Cabbage,  carrots,  turnips,  and  rutabagas,  in  addition  to  their  use  as  early  crops, 
may  be  planted  early  in  summer  and  the  products  which  mature  in  autumn  may  then  be 
held  for  winter  use. 

VEGETABLES  FOR  WINTER  USE 

For  a  late  crop  of  cabbage  it  is  customary  to  plant  the  seeds  in  a  bed  in  the  open 
ground  in  May  or  June  and  transplant  them  to  the  garden  in  July.  For  cabbage  of  this 
character  the  soil  should  be  heavier  and  more  retentive  of  moisture  than  for  early  cabbage, 
which  requires  a  rich,  warm  soil  in  order  to  reach  maturity  quickly.  For  the  late  variety 
it  is  not  desirable  to  have  too  rich  a  soil,  as  the  heads  are  liable  to  burst.  Cabbages  should 
be  set  in  rows  30  to  36  inches  apart,  and  plants  standing1  1  4  to  18  inches  apart  in  the  row. 

To  store  cabbage  for  the  winter  the  heads  should  be  buried  in  pits  or  placed  in  cel- 
lars. One  method  is  to  dig  a  trench  about  1 8  inches  deep  and  3  feet  wide  and  set  the 
cabbage  upright  with  the  heads  close  together  and  the  roots  embedded  in  the  soil.  When 
cold  weather  comes  the  heads  are  covered  lightly  with  straw  and   3   or  4   inches  of  earth 

'Detailed    information    on    this   plant   is    contained  in  Farmers'  Bulletin  232,  "Okra:  Its  Culture  and 
Uses." 


500  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK-^ection  XI— KITCHEN   GARDEN 

put  in.  Slight  freezing  does  not  injure  cabbage,  but  it  should  not  be  subjected  to  repeated 
freezing  and  thawing. 

Parsnips  will  occupy  the  ground  from  early  spring  until  fall.  The  seeds  should  be 
sown  as  early  as  convenient  in  the  spring  in  rows  18  inches  to  3  feet  apart.  The  plants 
should  later  be  thinned  to  stand  3  inches  apart  in  the  row.  A  rich  soil  with  frequent  cul- 
tivation is  necessary  for  success  with  this  crop.  The  roots  are  dug  late  in  the  fall  and  stored 
in  cellars  or  pits,  much  as  cabbage  is,  or  else  are  allowed  to  remain  where  they  are  grown 
and  are  dug  as  required  for  use.  All  roots  not  dug  during  the  winter,  however,  should  be 
removed  from  the  garden,  as  they  will  produce  seed  the  second  season  and  become  of  a 
weedy  nature.  When  the  parsnip  has  been  allowed  to  run  wild  in  this  way  the  root  is  con- 
sidered to  be  poisonous. 

Carrots  may  be  sown  early,  used  during  the  late  summer,  and  the  surplus  stored. 
If  desired,  a  later  crop  may  be  sown  after  the  removal  of  an  early  vegetable,  especially  for 
winter  use.  Carrots  are  grown  in  practically  the  same  way  as  parsnips,  but  are  not  thinned 
so  much  and  are  allowed  to  grow  almost  as  thickly  as  planted.  They  are  dug  in  the  autumn 
and  stored  in  the  same  manner  as  parsnips  or  turnips. 

Turnips  require  a  rich  soil  and  may  be  grown  either  as  an  early  or  late  crop.  For 
a  late  crop  it  is  customary  to  sow  the  seeds  broadcast  on  land  from  which  some  early  crop 
has  been  removed.  In  the  North  this  is  generally  done  during  July  and  August,  but  the 
usual  time  is  later  in  the  South.  The  seed  also  may  be  sown  in  drills  1  2  to  18  inches  apart 
as  for  the  early  crop.     After  the  plants  appear  they  are  thinned  to  about  3  inches. 

The  rutabaga  is  similar  to  the  turnip  and  is  grown  in  much  the  same  way.  It  re- 
quires more  space,  however,  and  a  longer  period  for  its  growth.  It  is  used  to  a  considerable 
extent  for  stock  feed  and  has  the  advantage  of  being  quite  hardy. 

FRUITS  IN  THE  SMALL  GARDEN— BERRIES 

If  there  is  sufficient  space  in  the  home  garden,  it  may  be  desirable  to  have  it  supply 
fruits  as  well  as  vegetables.  The  small  fruits,  such  as  strawberries,  raspberries,  blackberries, 
currants,  and  gooseberries,  may  be  produced  with  little  trouble.  A  few  dozen  strawberry 
plants,  and  even  few  of  the  other  plants  mentioned,  should  be  sufficient  for  a  start.  The 
plantings  can  be  increased  from  year  to  year  by  resetting  the  young  plants  which  spring 
up  from  runners  and  roots.  All  the  small  fruit  plants  mentioned  may  be  set  out  in  spring. 
Since  most  of  these  plants  will  occupy  the  same  space  year  after  year,  they  should  be 
segregated  from  the:  part  of  the  garden  devoted  to  annual  vegetables. 

Grapes  may,  in  many  instances,  be  grown  in  the  home  garden  more  easily  than  the 
small  bush  fruits,  since  they  may  be  planted  near  fences  and  permitted  to  run  upon  them. 
Grape  plants  also  may  be  set  put  in  spring  before  the  sap  rises.  Fairly  large  holes,  should 
be   dug,    and   these   filled   with  rich   soil   mixed  with  wood  ashes. 

TREE  FRUITS 

Tree  fruits  probably  cannot  be  grown  in  most  small  home  gardens  because  of  the 
relatively  large  areas  of  soil  their  roots  occupy.  The  use  of  dwarf  trees,  however,  makes 
possible  the  growing  of  a  few  fruit  trees  in  the  larger  yards  and  garden  inclosures.  Though 
strawberries,  cucumbers,  and  a  few  other  vegetables  may  be  grown  near  the  trees  while 
the  latter  are  small,  most  vegetables  must  be  grown  in  the  open,  where  they  will  receive 
abundant  sunlight.  If  fruit  trees  are  grown  in  connection  with  gardening  operations,  there- 
fore,  they  should,  where  possible,  be  well  removed  from  the  main  garden  plot. 

Apple,  peach,  cherry,  pear,  plum,  apricot,  and  quince  trees  may  be  purchased  on 
dwarfing  stocks.  All  may  be  set  out  in  the  spring  before  growth  starts.  The  trees  should 
be  set  in  holes  several  feet  square  in  which  rich  soil  has  been  placed.  They  should  be  set 
an  inch  or  so  lower  than  in  the  nursery. 


KITCHEN  GARDEN— CULTURED  SUGGESTIONS  501 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


502  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— Section  XI— KITCHEN  GARDEN 


(Paste  or  Write  Here 

Scraps  or  Memos. 

of  Your  Own) 


L 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 
Where  to  find  the  information  contained  in  this  volume. 

How  to  Use  the  Index — Note  the  following: 

On  subjects  of  a  general  nature,  particularly  where  treatment  is  in  a  writ- 
ten discussion  or  study  rather  than  in  brief  paragraphs  or  specific  recipes,  always 
look  on  pages  preceding  and  following,  as  well  as  on  the  page  given.  Other  mat- 
ter bearing  on  the  subject  will  thus  be  found,  often  matter  on  the  specific  subject 
and  almost  invariably  on  such  closely  related  subject-matter  as  to  be  of  material 
relation  to  the  subject  sought. 

But  do  not  get  the  "Index  Habit" — do  not  turn  to  the  Index  always  before 
you  do  anything  else.  The  Index  is  intended  as  a  guide  where  you  want  every- 
thing bearing  on  a  given  subject.  It  is  not  necessary  where  you  want  a  simple 
recipe  only,  or  the  solution  to  some  simple  problem.  For  illustration,  if  you  are 
on  the  subject  of  Breads :  You  will  probably  find  the  Bread  Recipe  you  want  under 
the  Classification,  Breads,  in  Part  2,  Cooking  and  Recipes,  of  Section  IV,  The 
Kitchen  and  Cookery.  If  you  want  to  look  up  War  Breads  using  no  wheat  or  wheat 
substitutions,  you  wil\  look  for  them  in  the  Food  Administration  Supplement.  If 
you  want  to  look  up  every  pertinent  reference  made  to  Breads,  Breads  as  a  Carbo- 
hydrate Food,  Breads  in  Diet  Value,  Bread  Substitute  Materials,  etc.,  etc.,  you  will 
consult  the  Index  on  Breads,  as  well  as  on  Flour,  on  Substitutes,  Children's  Foods, 
Invalids'  Diets,  on  Corn  Meal,  and  under  such  other  related  headings  as  are  sug- 
gested to  you  by  the  purposes  for  which  you  want  the  information;  and  you  will 
thus  get  together  a  complete  scientific  study  on  every  angle  of  the  Bread  question. 

Familiarize  yourself  in  a  general  way  with  the  Book  itself,  and  you  will  find 
yourself  able  to  turn  naturally,  for  all  usual  purposes,  at  once  to  the  Section  and 
page  you  want,  without  any  poring  over  the  Index.  The  Book  is  almost  self-indexed 
in  the  way  of  its  arrangement;  with  a  very  little  familiarity  it  at  least  becomes  so 
for  all  practical  ends. 

Page  Numbers: 

i,  ii,  iii,  etc.,  to  xvi — Preliminary  Pages  in  fore  part 
of  Book. 

S-l,  S-2,  etc.,  to  S-80 — Supplement  Section. 

1,  2,  3,  etc.,  to  502,  Main  Body  of  the  Book. 

xvii,  etc. — Index  Pages  at  back  of  Book. 

Use  the  Supplement — It  contains  the  latest  Food  Administration  Special 
War  Economy  Recommendations  and  Recipes  for  Savings — Save  and  Serve  the 
Cause  of  Freedom. 

Don't  Expect  to  Find  every  sort  of  individual  recipe  in  the  Index.  Look  for 
it  under  its  proper  classification  in  the  Book  itself.  We  do  not  encumber  the 
Index  with  such  items  as  Waldorf  Salad  or  Peach  Pie,  which  one  will  naturally 
look  for  under  Salad  or  Pie  (Pastry).  Only  such  recipes  are  indexed  as  to  the 
classification  of  which  one  might  be  uncertain. 


XV111 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 


A 

Absorption  Test  for  Linen.  32 

Accidents,  Everyday 378 

Accounts,  Household 9 

Acid  Burns 375 

Acid,  Teeth  and  Mouth.  ...  431 

Acids,    Poisoning,   Remedy..  376 

Acids,    Stains    366 

Activity,   Organs  of 410 

Adenoids 401 

Adulterations  of  Textiles.  .31,  34 

Albuminized  Milk 281 

Alkali  Burns 375 

Alkali,  Stains 366 

Alkaline  Waters 280 

All-Convenient  Casserole, 

and  Use  of  the  Oven.  .       76 

All  Kinds   of  Stains 363 

Aluminum   Ware    100 

Ammonia,  Poisoning,  Rem- 
edy     376 

Ammonia,   Washing 340 

Ampere,  Electrical 23 

Anchovy    Canopes,    Savories    183 

Anchovy  Sauce 167 

Anemic  Condition,  Treat- 
ment,   Diet 391 

Animals     Concerned     in 

Transmitting    Diseases.    386 

Antiseptics     373 

Antiseptic  Soap    353 

Ants,    Insects    331,336 

Apparel,  Wearing,  Care  of  3  1 ,  3  5 
Appearance,    Your   Looks.  .    419 

Apple   Sauce '68 

Apple  Strudel 242 

Appliances,  Kitchen 105 

Application  (for)  Member- 
ship, Food  Administra- 
tion         S-7 

Aprons  (for)  Cleaning....  28 
Army       Practice,        Prevent 

Disease    381 

Arrangement    (of)    Flowers, 

Decorative 471,  472 

Arsenic    Poisoning,    Remedy   376 

Artichokes,  Recipes 198 

Artificial  Respiration 377 

Ash  Cake,  Bread 209 

Asparagus,   Garden 499 

Asparagus,    Recipes    198 

Aspic  Jelly,  Entrees 177 

Aspic,  Tomato,  Jelly  Salad.     188 

Assimilation   of  Food 413 

Astringent   Wash    422 

Atmospheric  Disinfection.  .  382 
Attitude  of  the  Body,  Proper  445 
Au  Gratin  Dishes,  Casserole 

Cooking    76 

B 

Baby,     (The),    His    Majesty.  451 
Baby      (and)      Mother,     and 
The      Growing      Child, 

Section  IX 447 

Baby's   Bath    451 

Baby's   Clothes 451 

Baby's  Teeth 452 

Back  (and)   Chest  Plaster..  403 

Back  Yard  Garden 479 

Bacon,  Pork,  Recipes 1 49 

Bacteria,    Family   Doctor...  371 


Bags,   Bath    421 

Bags,   Hot  Water 336 

Bags,    Laundry    353 

Baking  Bread 208 

Baking   Cake     229 

Baking  Powder   Substitutes.  230 
Ball  (and)   Socket  Snaps.  .37,  38 

Balls  (for)  Soup 121 

Bananas   (in)   Place  of  Meat  134 

Barley  Breads 214 

Barley  Soup 1 20 

Barley,  Use  and  Save  Wheat  S-43 

Barley  Water,  Drinks 280 

Batter    Bread     210 

Bath,  Baby's 451 

Bath  (in)  Bed,  Sick 374 

Bath,   Bran    404 

Bath,    Cold  or  Hot 420 

Bath,    Complexion,   Face, 

Skin     42 1 

Bath     (for)     Feet 442 

Bath,   Kitchen,  Landry  Con- 
veniences,     and     Their 

Care,  Section  V 325 

Bath,   Uses  of 424 

Bathroom,   Cleaning 25 

Bathing    (the)    Sick 374 

Batters,  Fritters,  Entrees...  178 

Bay  Leaves,  Seasonings.  ...  257 

Beans,   Garden    497 

Beans,    Peas,  Lentils,  in  Place 

of    Meat    134 

Beans,   Sandwiches    263 

Beans,    Recipes    198,  199 

Beaten  Biscuit ._.  226 

Beauty   Rules    (and)    Treat- 
ment      421 

Bed    (and)    Bedroom  Sug- 
gestions     25 

Bed  Bug,  Insects 330 

Bed   Clothes,   to  Wash 347 

Bed    (and)     Clothing,     Sick- 
room      374 

Bed,   Making,  Sick 374 

Beef,   Butcher  Cuts 124,  128 

Beef,    Corned,  Canning  ....  301 
Beef    (Class  3)   Cooking  and 

Recipes 139 

Beef.    Milk  in  Place  of 135 

Beef,   Preserving    and     Can- 
ning    301 

Beet  Sugar,   Value 65 

Beet  Tops,  Recipes 201 

Beets,  Recipes 198 

Beetles,    Carpet,  Insects....  334 

Beetles,   Larder,  Insects.  ...  335 

Belt,    to    Clean    35 

Belt,   Sewing  Machine 37 

Berries,   Canning 298 

Berries    (and)    Fruits,    Fresh 
(Class      28),      Cooking 

and   Recipes    265 

Berries,    Home  Garden 500 

Betty,  Brown,  Puddings    .  .  .  243 
Beverages,      Drinks       (Class 
30),        Cooking        and 

Recipes 275 

Beverages,    Study   on    278 

Birds,    Carriers   of  Diseases.  386 
Biscuit   (Class    19),  Cooking 

and   Recipes    225 

Biscuit,    Wheatless    S-39 

Bisque,   Soup 118 

Black  Berries,  Garden 500 

Black   Heads,    Face 422 


Blacklead  Stove,  To 326 

Blanc  Mange,  Custards  ....  247 

Blanching  Vegetables 193 

Blankets,    to   Bleach 346 

Blankets,   Laundering 345 

Bleach  Blankets    346 

Bleach  Cottons 349 

Bleach  Creams,  Skin 422 

Bleach  Sweaters 346 

Bleach    (the)  Hands.. 437 

Bleach,  Laundry    355 

Bleach    (the)  Nails 438 

Bleeding  Nose,  Remedy.  .  .  .  404 

Blemishes,  Skin 425 

Blisters,  Fever 403 

Blood,  Circulation 413 

Blood,  Hemorrhage 377 

Blood  Stains    367 

Bluefish,    Fish    159 

Blueing,    (to)    Prepare    ....  355 

Blueing,    (for)    Wash 343 

Body,    (The)    Attitude    of .  .  445 
Body,      (The)     Human     Ma- 
chine      407 

Boiler,    Double,   Makeshift..  105 

Boiling  Meats 124 

Bone,   a   Broken 377 

Bone,    Fat,  Trimmings,  Meat  1 3  I 

Bone     (a)    Fish 161 

Bone,    Fish,  in  Throat 379 

Bones,   Uses  for 132 

Book-keeping,    Household.  .  9 

Book  Moths,  Insects 335 

Boots,  Care  of 35 

Borax   (as  a)   Remedy 403 

Borax,   Washing 340 

Boston  Brown   Bread 210 

Bouillon,   Soup 118 

Boxes,  Bread  and  Cake ....  99 

Brains,    Calfs,  Veal 146 

Braising,  Meats 123 

Bran  Baths 404 

Bran  Biscuit 226 

Bran   Bread 210 

Bran,  Soap     354 

Brass  Beds,  Cleaning 25 

Brass    (and)   Copper,  to 

Clean     1 02 

Brass    (to)  Polish 14 

Bread    (Class    17),    Cooking 

and  Recipes    207 

Bread,  Barley S-43 

Bread,  Barley,  Rice,  Rye,  Po- 
tato     214 

Bread  Boxes 99 

Bread    (and)    Butter  Plate .  .  41 

Bread,  Corn  Meal 209,  215 

Bread   Crumb  Griddle  Cakes  227 

Bread,  Cutting  When  Hot .  .  1 09 

Bread,  Dough,    Patterns    ...  114 

Bread,  Left-Over 110 

Bread,  Oatmeal 215 

Bread   Puddings    212 

Bread,  Soup,   Stale    211 

Bread  Sticks    224 

Bread,  Victory     S-25 

Bread.  Wheatless     S-37,  S-28 

Breakfast     Foods,     Prepared 

Cereals    217 

Breaking  Soil,  Garden    ....  484 

Breath,    Bad     419 

Brighten  the  Hair 428 

Brining  Foods  in  the  Home  283 

Brittle   Nails    438 

Broiling,  Meats 123 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX— B 


Broken  Bone,  Sprain 377 

Broken   China,    Cement....  42 

Brooms,    Scald    28 

Broths,  Soup 118 

Brown  Petty,  Puddings  ....  243 

Brown  Bread,  Boston 210 

Brown    Bread     (with)     Stale 

Bread 212 

Brows,   Eye,    Lashes 429 

Bruises,    Sprains,    Poultices.  403 

Brush,    Complexion 421 

Brush,  Tooth 432 

Brussels  Sprouts,  Garden.  .  .  498 

Brussels    Sprouts,    Recipes..  198 

Budget,  Household 

Buckwheat  Cakes 227 

Bug,   Bed,   Insects 330 

Bug,  Water 336,337 

Bulbs,    Indoors     468 

Bulletins,    Reference   Lists.  .  S-58 

Bunions,   Feet 442 

Buns,  Crumpets,  Rolls 223 

Burned   Milk 109 

Burned   Pans,  to  Clean  ....  103 

Burned   Taste,    Fats    131 

Burners,  to  Regulate  the.  .  .  79 

Burns,  Remedy 404 

Burns,  Treatment  of 375 

Bust  Forms 37 

Butcher  Cuts,  Meats 124 

Butter    Plates     41 

Butter  Fats 71 

Buttermilk,    Cream,   Cheese .  181 

Butters,  Nut 73 

Buttons  and  Buttonholes  ...  37 
Buying   (of)   Coal,  Early.  .  .  S-70 

c 

Cake     (Class    20),    Cooking 

and  Recipes 229 

Cakes    (Pan),  Biscuit   (Class 
19),     Cooking    and 

Recipes 225 

Cake  Boxes 99 

Cake,    Cutting  When   Hot.  .  109 

Cake   (from)  Crumbs,  Bread  212 

Cake  Recipes 231 

Cakes    and    Breads,    Wheat- 
less    S-28,  S-40 

Cakes,   Griddle,    Corn  Meal.  215 

Cakes,    Left-Over 230 

(leads) 

Cabbage,    Garden 498 

Cabbage,  Recipes 200 

Calf's       Brains       Croquettes, 

Entrees    1  76 

Calcium,   Food  Value 54 

Camp  Rations 302 

Canapes,    Savories     1  79 

Candles    and    Candle    Hold- 
ers      28 

Candies     Made     at     Home 
(Class      29)       Cooking 

and   Recipes    269 

Cane  Sugar,  Value 65 

Canned    Vegetables     197 

Canning       and        Preserving 

Recipes 295 

Canning  Foods  in  the  Home  283 
Canning.    One-Period,    Cold- 
Pack   Method    291 

Caper  Sauce 1  68 

Caramel,      Brown      Sugar 

Sauce    . 241 

Caramels,    Candies 272 


Caraway   Seeds,    Seasonings.  258 

Carbohydrates,    Functions .  .  51 
Carbolic     Acid,      Poisoning, 

Remedy 376 

Carbonated    Waters    280 

Card,  Kitchen  Home S-10 

Care  (of  the)    Baby 451 

Care  (of)  Bread 207 

Care  (of)  Cheese   in   the 

Home    1 80 

Care  (of)  Expectant  Mother.  447 

Care  (of)  Eyes,  Ears,  Nose.  435 

Care  (of  the)  Feet     44  1 

Care  (of)  Flowers 471 

Care  (of)  Flowers  and 

Plants    474 

Care  (of)  Hands  and  Nails.  437 
Care  (of)  Hair  and  Scalp.  .  427 
Care  (of)  Nose  and  Throat.  397 
Care  (of)  Patient,  Sickness.  374 
Care  (of)  Person,  and  Hy- 
giene, Section  VIII..  .  .  407 
Care,  Prenatal   and   Infant.  .  449 

Care  (of  the)  Skin 424 

Care  (of)  Skin,    Face,    Com- 
plexion      421 

Care  (of  the)  Teeth 43  1 

Care  (of)  Vegetables,  Fruits, 

Meats     314 

Carpet    Beetles,    Insects.  ...  334 

Carpets    16 

Carriage,  the  Body 445 

Carriers     of    Diseases,     Ani- 
mals       386 

Carrots,   Garden 499 

Carrots,    Recipes     200 

Casserole    (and)    Cooking.  .  76 

Casserole  Entrees 177 

Castor  Oil,  Wounds 403 

Catarrhal   Troubles 403 

Cat,    Carrier   of  Diseases.  .  .  386 

Cathartics 376 

Cauliflower,   Garden 498 

Cauliflower,  Recipes 200 

Cedar  Chest,   Home-Made.  .  27 

Ceilings,    Smoked    336 

Celery,  Recipes    200 

Celery   Sauce     1 68 

Celery,  Seasonings     257 

Celluloses,  Food  Value   ....  54 

Cement,    China,    Metal    ....  42 

Cereal   Beverages,    Drinks.  .  276 
Cereal    Foods,    Amount 

Wheat   Flour   in S-24 

Cereal    Foods,  Article  on    .  .  217 
Cereal    Foods,  Breads   (Class 
1  7),  Cooking  and  Reci- 
pes      207 

Cereal,  Home-Ground  Wheat  221 

Cereals    (in)    Place    of   Meat  133 

Cereals,   Left-Over I  10,  220 

Chamois,   to   Wash 351 

Changing  Bed-Clothing,  Sick  374 

Chapped    Hands 43  7 

Chard,  Swiss,  Garden 498 

Charlottes,    Puddings     242 

Charlotte    Russe,    see   Pastry  239 

Chart,    Butcher    Cuts     124 

Chart,    Food    49,  51 

Chart,    Home  Garden 479 

Chart,    Planting  Garden    .  .  .  486 

Cheese   Cake,  see  Pastry    .  .  239 

Cheese,  Care    of 180 

Cheese,  Composition   and 

Digestibility 180 


Cheese   Dishes,    Savories...  179 

Cheese    (as  a)    Food 180 

Cheese    (to)  Keep  Fresh.  .  .  108 

Cheese    (in)   Place  of  Meat.  136 

Cheese   Puddings     242 

Cheese  Recipes     182 

Cheese,  Sandwiches     260 

Cheese   Salad  Dressing   ....  187 

Cheese   Sauce 1 68 

Cheeses,  Savories 1 79 

Cheese   (and  its)  Use  in  the 

Diet 179 

Chemicals,   Burns 375 

Chest  and  Back  Plaster.  .  .  .  403 

Chest,    Cedar,    Home-Made.  27 

Chicken,  Poultry 149 

Chicken   Pox     401 

Chicken,    Prairie,  Game    ...  158 

Chiffon,    Ironing 361 

Chiffon,    Launder 348 

Chilblains,    Feet     442 

Child,    Bath 451 

Child,   Clothing     465 

Child,    Growing,    Section    IX  447 
Children's   Bureau,    Dept.    of 

Labor    459 

Children's   Food 451,  455 

Children's   Teeth 452 

Children's   Troubles 401 

Chile    Con   Came,   Beef.  .  .  .  140 

Chili  Sauce I  68 

China,   Cement 42 

China   Ware 101 

Chives,  Garden 499 

Chocolate,    Candies     272 

Chocolate,    Drinks     276 

Chocolate,    Stains    367 

Chocolate    Substitute     230 

Choice    (and)  Care  of  Uten- 
sils,  Kitchen 93 

Choice    (of)     Foods    to    Suit 

Needs     54 

Choice    (of)    Food  Wisely.  .  S-14 

Choking     (on)     Fish-Bone..  379 

Choking,  Remedy 377 

Choosing     Meats,     Learning 

the   Cuts 126 

Chowder,    Soup     121 

Chowder,  Vegetable 204 

Christmas   Menus 317 

Chutney,   Pickles 254 

Cider,   Drinks 276 

Cinnamon    Cake    232 

Cinnamon   Rolls 223 

Cinnamon,  Seasonings     ....  257 

Cinnamon   Tea   Biscuits    ...  226 

Cinnamon   Toast 213 

Circulation,  Organs  of    ....  408 

Clams,    Carriers    of  Diseases  386 

Clams,    Shellfish    165 

Clarifying  Fat 131 

Classifications,    Cooking  and 

Recipes 116 

Classifications      (of)      Vege- 
tables       191 

Clean    (and)    Dress  Poultry, 

to 152 

Clean    (and)    Flush  Stove 

and  Sink,   to 326 

Cleaning     (the)     Dishes    and 

Kitchen  Utensils 107 

Cleaning,  "Dry"     348 

Cleaning   Fish 160 

Cleaning    (with)     Gasoline..  348 

Cleaning    (the)    Hair 427 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 


Cleaning   Materials   and 

Utensils 28 

Cleaning  and  Stains 339 

Cleaning    (the)    Teeth    ....  432 

Cleanliness,  Sick  Room.  ...  373 

Closet    (or)    Cupboard,   The  24 

Clothes   Moths,  Insects   ....  332 

Clothes   Wringer     361 

Clothing     (and)    Bed,   Sick.  374 

Clothing,    Care,  Airing  ....  444 

Clothing,   Growing  Child    .  .  465 

Clothing,   The  Personal    .  .  .  444 

Cloves,  Seasonings 257 

Club  and  Home  Study,  Food 

Conservation     S-53 

Club,    National   Home-Keep- 
ers" Service v,  vi 

Club    Study,     Lists    of    Bul- 
letins      S-58 

Cluster  Fly,   Insects 329 

Coal,   Early  Buying S-70 

Coal,   Five  Ways  of  Saving.  S-76 
Cockroaches,     (to)    Dispose 

of    336 

Cockroaches,   Insects 331 

Cocktails,  Fruit 265 

Cocoa,    Drinks    276 

Cocoa   Substitute    230 

Cocoanut,  Candies 272 

Cocoanut    (to)    Open 109 

Cocottes,  Casserole  Cooking      76 

Codfish  Balls,   Recipes 164 

Codfish   Recipes    162 

Coffee    Cake 232 

Coffee,  Drinks 275 

Coffee-Grounds 104 

Coffee,    Stains 367 

Cold    Creams     422 

Cold    Frame,    Home    Garden    483 

Colds,   Children 403 

Colds    (to)    Cure,    Diaphor- 
etic Drinks 280 

Colds,  Prevention 424 

Colds    (and)    Signs   of,    Pre- 
vention        397 

Colored  Clothing,  to  Wash.    344 
Colored  Woolens,   to  Wash.    346 

Colors    (to)    Set 31,345,356 

Combinations,  Vegetable, 

Canning     297 

Comfortables,    to   Wash.  ...    347 
Common    Sense    in    Modern 

Cooking    75 

Complexion,  Face,  Skin    ...     421 
Composition    (of)    Cheese..     180 
Composition      (and)      Struc- 
ture of  Vegetables.  ...     191 
Composition     (and)     Use    of 

Indian   Corn    194 

Conditioning     Products      for 

Preserving 309 

Conservation    (of)    Coal.  .  .  S-7I 
Conservation  Does  not  Mean 

Prices     xiii 

Conservation,    Food,    House- 
hold    S-16 

Conservation,    Food,    Study.  S-53 

Consomme,   Soup    118 

Constipation,  Treatment, 

Diet 391 

Constituents,  Food 49,  5  1 

Contents    (of)    Cooking  and 

Recipes  Departments.  89,  90 
Contents,    Home-Keeping 

Book,   Table    ix 


Contents  of  Supplement, 

Table S-3 

Control     of     Mice,     Insects, 

Vermin 328 

Convalescent,  Diet  for  the.  .  387 
Conveniences      (and     their) 
Care,      Kitchen,      Bath, 

Laundry,  Section  V.  .  .  325 
Conveniences     (and)     Uten- 
sils, Kitchen,   Care  and 

Selection    of    93 

Convulsions,  Children 378 

Cook  Book  Departments.  .  .  87 
Cook    Book    Section    Begin- 
ning       45 

Cooker,  The  Fireless 80 

Cooker,     The     Fireless,     To 

Make 82 

Cookery    and    Kitchen,    Sec- 
tion Beginning    45 

Cookies,  see  Cake 229 

Cooking  Hints    1 08 

Cooking  and   Recipes,   Clas- 
sifications      116 

Cooking   and    Recipes,    Con- 
tents,   Table     89,  90 

Copper      (and)      Brass,      to 

Clean     102 

Copper,  to  Clean 14 

Copper  Ware 100 

Cordials,  Drinks 277 

Coriander  Seeds,  Seasonings  258 

Corks,   Paraffined 104 

Corn  Breads    215 

Corn  Breads,  Bread "";  209 

Corn    Cake,  Custards 232 

Corn   Dodgers 227 

Corn,  Garden     496 

Corn,  Green,  Recipes 199 

Corn,     Indian,     Composition 

and    Use     194 

Corn   Meal  Breads    215 

Corn   Meal   Muffins 215 

Corn    Meal   Muffins,    Biscuit.  225 
Corn    Meal  Griddle  Cakes  or 

Waffles     215 

Corn   Meal,  Indian    Pudding.  2  1  6 

Corn   Meal   Puddings 242 

Corn    Meal   Recipes    .  .S-29,  S-45 

Corn    Meal,    Use,  etc 194 

Corn    (in)    Place  of  Meat..  134 

Corned  Beef,  Canning 301 

Cornell  Reading  Course,  List 

of  Bulletins S-66 

Corns,  Feet 442 

Cottage    Cheese     136,  181 

Cotton    Goods,    Characteris- 
tics       31 

Cottons,    to    Launder 349 

Cottonseed   Oil 73 

Cough-Syrup,  Colds 398 

Court  Plaster 403 

Coverings,  Floors 16 

Cow,  Carrier  of  Diseases.  .  .  386 

Crabs,    Shellfish    166 

Cracked  Dishes 103 

Cranberry   Sauce     1 68 

Cream    Cheese     181 

Cream,  Filling,   see  Cake    .  .  229 

Cream,  Stains    367 

Cream   Soup    117 

Cream    (to)   Whip,  Thin...  108 

Creams,    Candies     271 

Creams,    Custards 245 

Creams,    Face  and  Skin.  .  .  .  422 

Creams,    Ice,   and   Ices 249 


Crepe  de  Chine,  to  Launder  348 

Cress,   Garden 498 

Crocheted  Articles,  to  Wash  348 
Crops,   Successions   and   Ro- 
tations     491 

Croquettes,   Entrees 175 

Croup,    Treatment    376 

Croustades  of  Bread 212 

Croutons    (and)    Forcemeats 

for  Soup 121 

Croutons,   Stale  Bread    ....  212 

Cruet,  Glassware,  Stained..  103 
Crullers,  Biscuits  (Class  19), 

Cooking  and  Recipes..  225 

Crumb    Cake     212 

Crumpets,  Buns,  Rolls    ....  223 

Cucumbers,    Garden    498 

Cucumbers,    Recipes 200 

Cultivation,    Soil,    Garden, 

484,  489 

Cupboard   or  Closet,   The.  .  24 

Curds  and  Whey 181 

Cure,    Colds    398 

Currants,  Garden 500 

Curry  Sauce 167 

Curry,    Seasonings    258 

Curtains,  to  Launder 350 

Curtains,  Shades,  Cushions .  2 1 
Custards        (and)        Creams 
(Class      23)       Cooking 

and   Recipes 245 

Custard,  Filling,  see  Cake.  .  229 
Custards,  Patterns,  in  Cook- 
ery   113 

Custards,    Pie,    see   Pastry.  .  237 

Cut  Flowers 467 

Cuts  (of)  Beef,  Butcher.  124,  128 

Cuts,    Learning  the.  Meats..  126 

Cuts,   Treatment   of 375 

Cutting  Hot  Bread   or   Cake  109 

Cutting    (the)    Teeth 452 

D 

Dampening,   Laundry 344 

Dampers,    Saving   Coal S-77 

Dampers,  The  Use  of 78 

Dandruff 428 

Daubing,    Meats 124 

Decoration    (and)    Furniture  5 

Decorative  Use  of  Flowers.  471 

Demulcants,  Beverages   ....  280 

Desserts,    Barley S-44 

Desserts,    Wheatless,    Saving 

Sugar     S-3  2 

Deviled  Ham,   Sandwiches.  .  261 

Devonshire,    Cheese 1 82 

Dextrose,    Commercial    ....  67 

Diabetes,  Treatment,  Diet.  .  393 
Diagram   (of)   Butcher  Cuts, 

Meats     124 

Diagram,    Home    Garden.  .  .  479 

Diaphoretics,    Drinks     280 

Diet,  (the)    Baby 451 

Diet    (for)    Children 455 

Diet    (for)    Expectant 

Mother     448 

Diet    (for)    Invalids     387 

Dietetics,  Practical 391 

Digestibility    (of)    Cheese..  180 
Digestion    (of)    Foods   ...52,411 

Digestion,   Organs  of 408 

Diluents,    Beverages 280 

Dining  Room    (and)    Refrig- 
erator      39 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX— D 


Dipping  Mixtures,  Meats  ...  124 
Directions,       Canning       and 

Preserving 295 

Disbursements,    Household. .       I  I 
Diseases,  Garden  Plants.  .  .  .    489 
Disease     Transmitters,     Ani- 
mals      386 

Dish  Towels 42 

Dishes,    Cracked    103 

Dishes,    Glassware   Baking.  .       76 
Dishes,  Washing,  and  Clean- 
ing   Utensils     107 

Disinfectants       (for)       Acci- 
dents        403 

Disinfectants,  Disinfecting.  .  373 
Disinfectant,    Elbow   Grease, 

Best 381 

Disinfectants,  Nonsense  Con- 
cerning        381 

Dislocation,   to  Treat 378 

Diuretics,  Beverages 279 

Doctor      and      Health,      The 

Family,  Section  VII 371 

Dodgers,   Corn    227 

Dog,  Carrier  of  Diseases.  .  .    386 

Dough,  Bread 208 

Dough  Process,  Bread  ....  208 
Doughs,    Soft,    Patterns ....     114 

Doughnuts     227 

Double  Boiler,  Makeshift ...     105 

Drawers,  Dresser 25 

Dress    (and)    Clean   Poultry, 

to 152 

Dressing,  Salads 185 

Dressing,  Stuffing,  Fish ....  161 
Dressing,  Stuffing,  Poultry..  155 
Dried  Products,  Packing  and 

Storing  and    Insects...     313 

Dried   Vegetables 197 

Drinks,       Beverages       (Class 
30),     Cooking    and 

Recipes 275 

Drippings,    Fat 132 

Drop  Biscuit 226 

Drops,  Candies 272 

Drowning,    Remedy    377 

Drowning,  Treatment 375 

Dry-Cleaning 348 

Dry    Hair    429 

Dry  Skin,  Remedy 422 

Drying     Foods     (in     the) 

Home    283 

Drying     Fruits     and     Vege- 
tables   (in   the)    Home.     309 

Drying,    Laundry     343 

Duck,    Poultry    149 

Duck,   Wild,  Game 1 58 

Dumplings,  (see)  Pastry  .  .  237 
Dumplings,    (for)    Soup....     121 

Duster,   Dustiess 336 

Duster,    (to)   make 15 

Dusting,    Daily    24 

E 

Early  Buying   of  Coal S-70 

Early  Vegetables,  Raising.  .    481 

Ears,   Care  of 435 

Earthenware 101 

Economical  Use   of  Meat  in 

the  Home 130 

Economy  in  Food,  War.  .  .  .  S-20 

Eczema,    Ointment    404 

Editions,     Future,     Help     Us 

Improve xi 


Egg-Beaters,    Choice    and 

and    Care    97 

Eggnog,    Drinks    276 

Eggplant,    Garden 497 

Eggplant,  Recipes 200 

Egg   Stains    367 

Eggs,     (Class    12),    Cooking 

and  Recipes    171 

Eggs  (and)  Meat,  Left-Over  1  1 0 
Eggs  (in)  Place  of  Meat..  133 
Eggs,  (to)    Tell   Fresh 171 

Elbow  Grease,  Disinfectant.  381 
Electricity,  Simple  Terms  in      23 

Emergencies,  Family 375 

Emergency     Fuel     from    the 

Farm  Woodland S-73 

Emetics    376 

Enamel  (and)  Granite  Ware  100 
Enamel,   White,   to  Keep...    337 

Enameled  Walls 19 

Endive,    Garden    498 

Entrees     (Class     13),    Cook- 
ing and  Recipes 1 75 

Equipment,      Dining      Room 

and    Care    42 

Equipment    (for)    Emergen- 
cies        375 

Equipment,    Household,    Se- 
lection      7 

Erysipelas 403 

Essentials  of  Gardening.  ...  477 
Everyday  Accidents 378 

Excretion,  Organs  of 409 

Expectant    Mother    447 

Expenses,      Household      Ac- 
counts    

Extending  Flavor,  Meats...  132 
Exterminate,    Mice,    Insects, 

Vermin 328 

Exterminate,     Plant     Insects 

and  Diseases 490 

Extinguish  Fire,  with  Salt.  .  103 

Eyebrows,  Care  of 422 

Eyebrows    (and)    Lashes.  .  .  429 

Eyes,    Care   of 435 

Eye,  Foreign  Matter  in  ...  .  378 

Eyes,    Inflamed  or  Sore    .  .  .  403 

Eyes,   Puffy 423 

F 

Fabrics,    Characteristics    ...  31 

Face,  Care  of 424 

Face   Powders 422 

Face,  Skin,  Complexion  ...  421 
Fainting,  Treatment   .  .  .375,  376 

Fall   Season,    Menus    321 

Family      Doctor      (and) 

Health  (Section  VII)  .  .  371 

Farina,  Cold    Cooked    220 

Farina   Pudding     220 

Farm   Woodland,    Fuel   from  S-73 

Fat,    (to)  Reduce 394 

Fat,    (to)    Increase 395 

Fat,    Burned   Taste 131 

Fat,    Clarifying    131 

Fat,   Trying-out     131 

Fatigue,    Remedy    403 

Fats,    (for)  Bread 208 

Fats,    Digestion    413 

Fats,   Drippings 132 

Fats     (and    their)     Economi- 
cal Use  in  the  Home .  .  71 


Fats,    Flavor  and   Odors   of.  71 

Fats,    Functions     51 

Fats,    Heat    Decomposes. ...  129 

Fats,    Left-Over 110 

Fats,   Place  in  the  Diet ....  71 

Fats,   Saving    S-47 

Fats,    Selection   of 73 

Fats,    Substitutes   for 230 

Feather   Beds   or   Pillows...  25 

Feathers,   to  Curl 35 

Federal  Food  Administrators 

for  Each  State S-9 

Feeding  (the)  Child,  in  Gen- 
eral      455 

Feeding  (the)  Child,   Second 

Year    459 

Feeding  (the)  Child,    Third 

Year    460 

Feeding  (the)  Child,    Fourth 

Year     462 

Feeding  (the)  Child,   Sixth 

Year    463 

Feeding  Patient,  Sick 375 

Feet,  Care  of 441 

Felt,  to  Wash 348 

Fermenting  Foods   for  Pres- 
ervation       286 

Ferments  of  the  Body    ....  412 

Ferns    (and)   Kindred  Plants  468 
Fertilizers,    Home    Garden, 

478,  484 

Fever  Blisters 403 

Fifty-Fifty  Policy,  Food ....  S- 1  I 

Filling,    Cake 229 

Filling,    Sandwiches    261 

Fire  Extinguisher,  Salt    ....  103 
Fire,   Make  and  Manage  the 

Right  Way 78 

Fireless   Cooker,  The 80 

Fireless  Cooker  (to)  Make  a  81 
Fireless  Cooker,  Special 

Recipes 83 

Fire-Place,    Cleaning 25 

Fireproofing  Fabrics 349 

Fish  Bone  in  Throat 379 

Fish,    Carriers    of   Diseases..  386 
Fish,  Cleaning  and  Prepara- 
tion     160,  161 

Fish,   Conservation  Recipes.  S-46 
Fish    (Class   9),    Cooking 

and   Recipes    1 59 

Fish   Croquettes,    Entrees...  177 

Fish  Moths,    Insects 335 

Fish    (and   Meat)    Sauces 
(Class      II),      Cooking 

and   Recipes    167 

Fish    (in)    Season 160 

Fish,  Selection  of 1 60 

Fish   Situation    (The) S-35 

Five    Food   Groups    S- 1  4 

Five  Ways   (of)  Saving  Coal  S-76 

Flame,  to  Regulate  the   ....  79 

Flannels,    (to)    Launder    ...  346 

Flannels,    (to)    Soften 348 

Flavor,    Extending,   Meats...  132 

Flax  Seed   Tea    281 

Fleas,    Carriers   of  Diseases.  386 

Fleas,    Insects,   Dispose    of .  .  333 

Floors    and    Floor   Coverings  1 6 

Flounders,    Fish '60 

Flounders,  Recipes 163 

Flour,    (to)    Keep 207 

Flowers,    Cut 467 

Flowers,    Decorative  Use    ..  471 

Flowers,    (to)    Keep 471 


XXII 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 


Fluids  of  the  Body 412 

Flush   and   Clean   Stove   and 

Sink,    to     326 

Fly,   Carrier   of  Diseases    .  .  386 

Fly,    Insects,  Dispose  of .  .  ■  .  328 

Fly-Papers     329 

Fly  Traps 328 

Fondant,  Candies 269 

Fondant,   Icing 23 1 

Fondue,   Bread  and  Cheese .  212 
Food  Administration,    Appli- 
cation   for  Membership  S-7 
Food  Administration  Supple- 
ment Begins S-l 

Food  Administrators  for 

Each  State    S-9 

Food  (for  the)    Baby 451 

Food  Chart 49 

Food  (for   Young)    Children  455 
Food  Conservation,  House- 
hold   S-16 

Food  Conservation,    Study.  .  S-53 

Food  Divisions     49 

Food  Economy,  War S-20 

Food  (for)  Expectant  Mother  447 

Food  Functions    51 

Food  Groups,   Five S- 1 4 

Food,  How  to  Select 57 

Food  (in)    Place  of  Meat..  .  133 

Food  Savers,    Staple    59 

Food,  Talks  on,  Section  be- 
ginning      47 

Food  Value  (of)  Bread    207 

Food  Value  (of)  Cereals   ...  217 

Food  Value  (of)  Cheese    ...  1  80 

Food  Value  (of)  Meat     130 

Food  Value  (of)  Potatoes    . .  195 

Food  Value  (of)  Salads 185 

Food    (in)    War  and   Peace, 

Study     S-53 

Foods,  Relative  Value  of .  .  .  49 
Forcemeats    (and)    Croutons 

for  Soup 121 

Forcemeat,    Entrees     175 

Forcemeat,   Stuffing,   Poultry    155 
Fore  Quarter,   Butcher  Cuts    126 

Forestation,   Farm S-74 

For  His  Majesty  Himself.  .  .  451 

Form  the  Olive  Oil  Habit .  .  84 

Form,  Bust 37 

Formaldehyde    Delusion, 

The    384 

Fowl,  Poultry 1 49 

Fractured    Bone    377 

Frames,    Picture    14 

Freckles     422 

French  Dressing 187 

French  Toast    213 

Fresh  Eggs,  To  Tell 171 

Frijoles,    Recipes 199 

Fritters,  Entrees 1 78 

Frostings,   see   Cake 229 

Fructose,   Sugar    65 

Fruit   Jars,   to  Open 104 

Fruit  Juices,    Canning    ....  298 

Fruit  Sauces,   Left-over    ...  110 

Fruit,  Stains 367 

Fruit   Sugar     65 

Fruits    (and   Berries),    Fresh 
(Class      28),      Cooking 

and   Recipes 265 

Fruits,    Candied     270 

Fruits,    Canning    297 

Fruits,    Canning,  Preserving, 

etc ••  283 


Fruits,    (in)    Home  Garden.  500 

Fruits,   Keeping     314 

Fruits    (to)    Save    Sugar...  59 

Fruits,   Tree,  The  Garden.  .  500 
Fruits    (and)    Vegetables, 

Drying 309 

Fruits       (and)       Vegetables 
(Fresh)    (as)    Conserv- 

ers,  Use  of 58 

Fruits       (and)       Vegetables, 

Food   Value    53 

Frying,  Meats 124 

Fudge,    Candies     272 

Fuel      Administration      Sub- 
Supplement,   Begins    .  .  S-69 

Fuel,    Conservation   of S-69 

Fuel,  Save,  When  You  Cook  78 

Functions,    Foods    51 

Funnel,  Uses  for  a 103 

Furniture,  Care  of 13 

Furniture    (and)    Decoration  5 

Furniture,   Sick  Room 374 

Furred  Kettles,   to  Clean...  103 

Furs,    (to)    Clean 35,  35  I 

Fuse,    Electrical     23 

Future     Editions,     Help     Us 

Improve xi 

G 

Galvanized  Iron  Ware    ....  1 00 
Game,     (Class    8)     Cooking 

and  Recipes 157 

Game,   Preserving  and   Can- 
ning   .  30 1 

Game  Stuffing 155 

Garden,     Indoor,      and     Cut 

Flowers,    Section   X.  .  .  467 

Garden,  Kitchen,  Section  IX  477 

Garden    Planting   Table....  486 

Garden  Tools 483 

Garlic    for    Wounds 404 

Gas  Globes 27 

Gas  (and)  Oil,  Ways  to  Save  79 

Gas  Pipe  Leak 337 

Gaseous  Disinfectants 384 

Gasoline    Cleaning    348 

Gems,    Cake    233 

General    Household,    Section 

I    9 

General  Utility,  Section  II.  .  23 

Germicides,  Useful 384 

Germinating,    Home    Garden  482 

Giblets,    Poultry    152 

Gingerbread,    (See)    Cake, 

229,  232 

Gingerbread,    Crumb    212 

Ginger  Tea,   Drinks 280 

Glace,    Soup    118 

Glandular  Ferments,  etc. ...  412 

Glass,  Table 41 

Glassware    1 02 

Glassware   Baking   Dishes..  .  76 

Classware,  Stained,  to  Clean  1  03 

Glassware,    (to)    Toughen.  .  98 
Glassware,       Washing       and 

Care    42 

Glaze,   for  Cake 231 

Globes,    Cleaning    28 

Globes,    Gas     27 

Glossy    Hair    428 

Gloves,    (to)    Clean,    to  Dye  351 

Gloves    (for)     Cleaning.  ...  28 

Glucose,  Sugar 65 

Glue  for  Starch 355 

Goats,  Carriers  of  Diseases.  386 


Gold    (to)    Clean    14 

Golden  Buck,  Cheese 183 

Golden   Buck,    Rarebit 182 

Golden  Hair  Shampoo 429 

Goose,  Poultry 149 

Gooseberries,  Garden 500 

Granite  (and)  Enamel  Ware, 

100,  102 

Grapes,    Garden    500 

Grape  Juice,  Drinks 277 

Grass,    Stains    367 

Graying  Hair,  Restore    ....  428 

Grease  Spots   (on)    Floors .  .  17 

Grease  Spots,  Stains 367 

Grease    Stains    on    Walls    or 

Paper    19 

Grease,    Wagon,    Stains ....  3  69 

Greens,   Recipes    201 

Griddle  Cakes,  Corn-Meal .  .  215 

Grippe,  Prevent  and  Cure.  .  398 

Grounds,  Coffee 1 04 

Groups,  Five  Food S- 1 4 

Growing    Child,    The     (Sec- 
tion IX)    447 

Gum  Arabic  for  Starch    ...  355 

Gums,    Sore     433 

H 

Haddock,    Fish 159 

Haddock,    Recipes    1 62 

Hair  and  Scalp,  The 427 

Hair,  Superfluous 423 

Hair  Tonics    428 

Half-Moon,    Nails    438 

Halibut,   Fish    ; 139 

Halibut,  Recipes 1 62 

Ham,    Deviled,    Sandwiches.  261 

Ham,  Pork,  Recipes 1 49 

Hands,  Care  of 424,  437 

Hang  Nails 438 

Hanging  Plants 469 

Hard  Water 339 

Hare,  Game,  Recipes 157 

Harvest,  Until  Next S-4 

Haunch   Mutton,    Venison..  127 
Health,    Family    and    Doctor 

(Section  VII)    371 

Heat,    Burns    375 

Heat,    Disinfectant 382 

Help     (us)    Improve    Future 

Editions xi 

Help     (of)     Women,     Local 

Marketing    S-6 

Helps,  Household    ........  13 

Helps,  Kitchen 93 

Hemorrhage,    Emergency...  377 

Hind  Quarter,  Butcher  Cuts  126 

Hinges,   Creaking 27 

Hints,  Cooking 1 08 

His  Majesty,  the  Baby 451 

Hogs,   Carriers   of  Diseases.  386 
Home  Canning  by  the  One- 
Period,      Cold-Pack 

Method 291 

Home  Card,  Kitchen S- 1 0 

Home-Garden,    The     477 

Home-Ground  Wheat  Cereal  221 

Home-Keepers"  Service  Club  v-vi 

Home   Management    11 

Home  Nurse 371 

Home    Remedies    in    a    Nut- 
shell       403 

Home    and    Club,    Study    on 

Food    Conservation..  .  .  S-53 

Hominy  Bread    210 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX— H 


Hominy  Recipes 204 

Honey,  Sugar   . 65 

Hop   Poultice    403 

Horse,    Carrier  of  Diseases.  386 

Horseradish,    Dressing    ....  260 

Horseradish,    (and)   Sauce..  168 

Horseradish,     Seasonings.  .  .  257 

Hosiery,   Feet 441 

Hot  Bed,  Home  Garden 482 

Hot  Water  Bottles,   Care.  ..  336 

Household   Accounts    9 

Household     Conservation 

Food S-I6 

Household     Equipment,     Se- 
lection      7 

House  Fly,   Insects 328 

Household,   General,  Section 

Beginning 9 

Household   Helps     13 

Household    Miscellany    ....  27 

Household  Schedule 9 

How  to  Select  Food 57 

Human   Body,    Machine.  ...  407 

Human   Machine,   The 407 

Hygiene,    Personal,    Care    of 
the       Person       (Section 

VIII)    407 

I 

Ice     Cream      (and)      Ices, 

(Class     24),      Cooking 

and  Recipes    249 

Ice  Box,  Refrigerator 43 

Ices,  Ice  Creams 249 

Icing,  see  Cakes 229 

Illness,  Family  Doctor 371 

Improve       Future       Editions, 

Help   Us    xi 

Income,     Disbursements, 

Household 11 

Indellible   Ink,   Stains 368 

Infant  Care 449 

Ingredients,  Food,  Divisions  49 
Indian     Corn,      Composition 

and   Use    194 

Indian  Meal  Breads 215 

Indian    Pudding,    with 

Crumbs 212 

Indigo,  Stains 368 

Indoor      Garden      and      Cut 

Flowers    (Section  X)  .  .  467 

Ink,   Stains    368 

In  Place  of  Meat 133 

Insects   Attacking   Dried 

Products    313 

Insect  Powder 328 

Insects,    Flowers   and   Plants  474 

Insects,  Garden  Plants    ....  489 

Insects,   Vermin,    Mice    ....  328 

Insomnia    404 

Instead   of  Meat 136 

Invalids,   Diet 387 

Iodine,   Stains 368 

Iowa    State   College,    List   of 

Bulletins    S-62 

Irish  Moss,  Drinks    .......  277 

Iron    (in   Various)    Foods..  391 

Iron,  Food  Value    54 

Iron    (and)    Steel,  and  Care 

of    99 

Iron  Ware,  Care  of 98 

Iron  Ware,    (to)    Clean 102 

Iron  Ware,  Galvanized  ....  100 

Iron  Ware,   to  Season    ....  102 


Ironing    Board,     Laundry 

(Section   VI)     339 

Ironing  Board,  and  Instruc- 
tions      359 

Irons,  Laundry 360 

Irrigation,    Garden    489 

Isolation,  to  Prevent  Disease  381 

Ivory,    to   Whiten,   Knives.  .  42 

Ivy,    Flowers   and   Plants.  .  .  474 

Ivy  Poisoning 376,  403 

J 

Jams,        Jellies,        Preserves, 

Making 303 

Jars,    Fruit,    to   Open 104 

Javelle  Water,  to  Make. 356,  365 
Jellies,        Jams,        Preserves, 

Making 303 

Jelly   Roll    23 1 

Julienne,   Soup    118 

Junket,  Cheese 181 

K 

Kedgeree,   Fish 1 63 

Keep   Bread   Fresh,    to    ....  207 

Keep    Cheese,    to     1 80 

Keep   Flowers,  to 471 

Keep   House  the   "Paper" 

Way     325 

Keeping      (of)      Vegetables, 

Fruits  and   Meats 314 

Kid  Slippers,  to  Clean    ....  348 

Kidney  Beans,  Recipes   ....  199 

Kilowatt,    Electrical    23 

Kisses,    Candies     272 

Kitchen   Appliances    105 

Kitchen,  Bath,  Laundry  Con- 
veniences     and      Their 

Care    (Section  V)  ....  325 
Kitchen       (and)       Cookery, 

Section    Beginning    ...  45 
Kitchen    and    Cookery,    Part 

2,  Cooking  and  Recipes  87 
Kitchen   Garden,    The    (Sec- 
tion XI)    477 

Kitchen    Helps     93 

Kitchen,   Home   Card S- 1  0 

Kitchen    Table,    Movable ...  104 
Knives,   Cleaning,  Care, 

Choice     42,    102,    97 

Koumiss,    Beverages 281 

Kringles,    Rolls 224 

L 

Laces,   (to)  Launder 350 

Laces   (to)   Tint,  to  Clean.  .  350 

Lactose,   Sugar 65 

La      Grippe,      Prevent      and 

Cure    398 

Lamb,  Choosing  and  Cuts.  .  127 
Lamb     Composition,     Value, 

Economy 141 

Lamb  (and)  Mutton,  (Class 
4),  Cooking  and  Rec- 
ipes      141 

Lamb,    Recipes    142 

Lampblack,   Stains    368 

Lamps,    Cleaning    27 

Lard,    Fats     71 

Larder    Beetles,    Insects.  ...  335 

Larding,  Meats 124 

Lashes,   Eye,   Brows 429 


Laundry,     Bath,     Kitchen 
Conveniences  and  Their 

Care    (Section  V)  ....  325 

Laundry    Container    353 

Laundry,  Directions 342 

Laundry      (and)      Ironing 

Board   (Section  VI)  .  .  .  339 

Laundry    List    339 

Laundry  Soap,  to  Make.  .  .  .  354 

Lavender  Water 422 

Laxative  Foods 391 

Lead   Poisoning  Remedy.  .  .  376 

Leaking   Pipe,    Stop    337 

Learning  the  Cuts,   Meats..  126 

Leather,     (to)    Clean 14 

Leather  (Chamois)  to  Wash  351 

Left-Over  Cakes 230 

Left-Over   Cereals     220 

Left-Over   Foods 110 

Left-Over   Meats 131 

Leg,  Butcher  Cuts 126 

Lemonade,    Drinks 277 

Lemon   Rinds     1 08 

Lemons,    Grating    108 

Lemons,    (to)    Keep  Soft...  108 
Lentils,      Peas,      Beans,      in 

Place    of    Meat 134 

Lentils,    Recipes    199 

Lettuce,   The  Garden 492 

Lice,   Carriers  of  Diseases.  .  386 

Lightning  Stroke,  Treatment  375 

Lime    (in)    Milk 62 

Linen,    (the)  Baby's 451 

Linen,    Care  of 24 

Linen,    Characteristics     ....  32 

Linen  Dining   Table 40 

Linen,    Table,    to   Launder.  .  349 

Linen,    (to)    Mark    355 

Linoleum,    (to)    Clean    ....  16 

Linoleum,    (to)    Wash    ....  336 
Linoleum,    Oil    Cloth,    to 

Wash 1 03 

Linseed,    Poultices,    etc.     .  .  .  403 

Lips,   Care  of 422 

Lists,  Bulletins  and  Publica- 
tions      S-58 

Little  Sharp  Talk,  A 3 

Liver,    Calfs   Veal    146 

Liver,    Meats   and    Poultry..  127 

Lobster,   Shellfish 1 66 

Loin,    Butcher    Cuts 126 

Looks,  Take  Stock  of  Your.  419 

Lotion,  Bath 421 

Louse,    Carrier   of  Diseases.  386 

Luncheons,   Menus 318 

Lye,  Washing 340 

M 

Macaroni,     Croquettes,     En- 
trees      177 

Macaroni,       (in)      Place      of 

Meat    .... 133 

Macaroni,    Recipes 205 

Macaroons,   Cake    ........  234 

Mace,   Seasonings 257 

Machine  Oil,  to  Remove.  .  .  37 

Machine,    Sewing    37 

Mackerel,   Fish 1 60 

Mackerel,    Spanish    1 62 

Magnesia,   the  Mouth 433 

Makeshift      Kitchen      Appli- 
ances      105 

Makeshift   Stove    or   Oven..  105 

Making  Bed,    Sick    374 

Making   Cake    229 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 


Making   Salads    186 

Maltose,   Sugar 65 

Management,  Home M 

Manicuring 438 

Marble,    (to)    Clean 14 

Marketing,   Local S-6 

Marking  Linen 355 

Marmalades,   Making 304 

Marmites,     Casserole     Cook- 
ing       76 

Maple  Substitutes 109 

Marinade,    Dressing     187 

Marjoram,    Seasonings    ....  257 

Massage,  Scalp 429 

Matches,   Waterproof 28 

Materials   (and  Their)   Care, 

Kitchen   Utensils 99 

Materials     (for)     Cleaning..  28 

Mats,    Dining  Table 42 

Matting,  to  Clean 16 

Mattresses 25 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 186 

Meals,     Planning,     War 

Economy S-2 1 

Measurements    for    Substitu- 
tions      S- 1  0 

Measurements    (for)    Wheat- 
less   Recipes    S-49 

Measures     and     Proportions, 

Tables    91 

Meal,  Corn,  Use,  etc 194 

Meat  Eaters   or  Vegetarians  49 

Meat  Juice,   Stains 368 

Meat      (and     Fish)      Sauces, 
(Class      11),      Cooking 

and   Recipes 167 

Meat,   Savers  and  Extenders  S-45 

Meat,    Saving     S-33 

Meat-Stock,   Soups 117 

Meat    Trimmings,     Fat     and 

Bone    131 

Meats,    Butcher    Cuts,    Beef.  128 
Meats,    Canning,   Preserving, 

Pickling,    etc 283 

Meats,     Choosing,     Learning 

the   Cuts 126 

Meats,     (Class    2),    Cooking 

and    Recipes    123 

Meats,    Economical    Use    of.  130 
Meats,      (and)      Eggs,     Left- 

Over     110 

Meats,  Extending  the  Flavor  132 

Meats,   Keeping 314 

Meats,    Left-Over    131 

Meats,   (in)  Place  of 133 

Meats,    Preserving     301 

Meats,   Principles  and  Meth- 
ods  of   Cookery 129 

Meats,  Value   as  Food 130 

Medicines,      Family      Equip- 
ment      375 

Medicines,    Stains    368 

Meetings,  Menus  for 318 

Melons,    The   Garden    498 

Membership  Application, 

Food    Administration..  S-7 

Mending 38 

Menus      for     Special      Occa- 
sions  and    Seasons ....  317 

Menus,  War  Economy S-2  1 

Mercerized   Cotton    32 

Mercury  Poisoning,  Remedy   376 

Meringue    for    Custards.  .  .  .  245 

Metals,    Cement     42 

Metals,  Utensils,  and  Care  of      98 


Methods      and      Principles, 

Cookery  of  Meats.  ...  129 

Mice,    Carriers    of  Diseases.  386 

Mice,    (to)    Dispose   of    ....  336 

Mice,    Insects,   Vermin    ....  328 

Mildew,    Stains    369 

Milk    (vs.)    Beef 135 

Milk,    (in)   Bread 208 

Milk,    Burnt    1 09 

Milk:    (a)    Cheap   Food   and 

Source  of  Energy    ....  61 

Milk,  Food  Equivalents  in .  .  64 

Milk,    (to)   Pasteurize 64 

Milk,    (in)    Place   of  Meat..  133 

Milk,    Stains    369 

Milk-Sugar,    Sugar    65 

Milk   Toast    . 213 

Milk     (and)     Tomatoes,     to 

Blend     1 08 

Mineral  Salts,    Functions ...  51 

Mint,   Indoors 474 

Mint  Sauce    .  .  . 1  68 

Mint,    Seasonings     257 

Mites  and  Ticks,  Carriers  of 

Diseases 386 

Modern    Cooking,    Common 

Sense 75 

Molasses   Cake     232 

Molasses   Candy 272 

Molasses   Muffins 225 

Mosquitoes,    Carriers    of 

Diseases 386 

Mosquitoes,    Insects     329 

Mother  and  Baby  and  The 
Growing  Child  (Sec- 
tion IX)    447 

Mother,  Expectant 447 

Moths,  Book,   Insects 335 

Moths   (and)  Bugs,  Carpets  .  1  6 

Moths,    Clothes,    Insects.  ...  333 

Moths,    (to)   Dispose  of .  .  .  .  336 

Moths,    Fish,    Insects 335 

Mousse,  Orange,  Ices 251 

Mouth  Wash 374,  432 

Mucus,  Stains 369 

Mud,    Stains     369 

Muffins,     Biscuit,     Class     19, 

Cooking    and    Recipes.     225 

Muffins,  Corn-Meal 215 

Muffins,    Oatmeal    215 

Muffins,  Wheatless S-37 

Mushroom   Sauce    1 68 

Mushrooms,  Seasonings    ...    257 

Mustard,    Garden    498 

Mustard,  Ointment  or  Plas- 
ter       403 

Mustard  Pickle 253 

Mustard   Sauce    167 

Mustard   Seasonings    257 

Mutton,  Care  of  and  Judg- 
ing          142 

Mutton,    Choosing  and   Cuts    127 
Mutton,  Composition,  Value, 

Economy 141 

Mutton  (and)  Lamb,  (Class 
4),  Cooking  and  Rec- 
ipes         141 

Mutton,  Recipes 142 

Mutton    (or)    Veal,    Butcher 

Cuts     125 

N 

Nail,    Rusty,    Accident    ....    378 
Nails,  Care  of 437 


Napkin  Rings 42 

Napkin    (Table)    .  .  .  41 

National     Home-Keepers' 

Service  Club v-vi 

Neck,  Butcher  Cuts 126 

Nectors,    Drinks    278 

Nervous  System,  The 417 

Nervousness,    Baths    for     .  .  .  404 

Net   Curtains,    to   Wash....  350 

Net  Veils,   to  Launder    ....  348 

i<iets,  Mosquito,  Bed 33< 

Nickel-Plated  Ware 1  Oo 

Nickel,     (to)    Polish .  .  14 

Nickel,  Stained,  to  Clean ...  103 
Nitrate,      Silver,      Poisoning, 

Remedy 376 

Noodles,    (in)   Place  of  Meat  134 

Noodles,  for  Soup 121 

Nose  Bleed,    Remedy 404 

Nose,  Care  of 435 

Nose  and  Throat,  Care   ....  397 

Nurse,    (The)    Home    371 

Nurse's  Kitchen 388 

Nut  Bread 210 

Nut  Butter    73 

Nut   Cake 233 

Nut   Candies 269 

Nutmeg,  Seasonings 258 

Nutrients,  Beverages 281 

Nuts,    Candies 271 

Nuts,    (to)    Open  Easily. ..  .  109 

Nuts,    (in)    Place  of  Meat.  .  133 

Nuts,   Sandwiches 259 

Nut  Sauce 169 

O 

Oatmeal  Breads,   Muffins ...  215 

Obesity,    Treatment,    Diet.  .  394 

Odors,    Cooking 1 09 

Odors,    Onion,    Breath 109 

Odors,    (to)    Remove,  Chop- 
ping   Bowl     103 

Oil      Cloth,      Linoleum,      to 

Wash 103 

Oil     (and)     Gas,     Ways     to 

Save     79 

Oil,    Machine,   to   Remove.  .  37 

Oil,  Stains 368 

Oil  Stoves 27 

Oily  Hair 428 

Ointment,  Eczema,   etc.    .  .  .  404 

Okra,    Garden 499 

Okra,  Recipes 200 

Oleomargarine 72 

Olive    Oil     72 

Olive   Oil    (for)    Cooking. .  .  84 

Olive  Oil,  Form  (the)  Habit  84 

Oliver  Twists,  Rolls 224 

Omelet,    Bread    Crumbs    ...  213 

Omelets,    Eggs,   Recipes    ...  171 

Onion  Odors,  Breath 109 

Onions,    Garden    493 

Onions,   Recipes 200 

Onions,    (no)    "Tears"  With  108 

Open  Fruit  Jars,   to 104 

Orangeade,    Drinks     279 

Organic  Matter  in  Water   .  .  340 
Organs    (of   the)    Body....  407 
Oven      (or)      Stove,     Make- 
shift       105 

Oven    Temperatures,    Inter- 
pretation   of    230 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX— O 


Oven,  Use  of 77 

Overnight   Method,    Bread..  209 

Oysters,  Carriers  of  Diseases  386 

Oyster  Plant,  Recipes 200 

Oysters,   Shellfish 165 

P 

Pancakes,  Biscuit  (Class  19) 

Cooking  and  Recipes. .  225 
Packing    and    Storing    Dried 

Products    313 

Pad,  Dining  Table 41 

Pad,  Ironing 361 

Paint,  Stains 369 

Palms  and  Plants 474 

Parsley,  The  Garden 499 

Patient,   Care  of  Sick 374 

Paper  Conveniences 325 

Paper,   Wall    19 

Paraffin,    Corks 104 

Paraffin  (in)  Starch 356 

Paraffin,    (to)   Wash  With..  341 

Parfait,   Ices  ' 251 

Parsley,    Seasonings 257 

Parsnips,   Recipes 200 

Paste,    Soap    (for)    Hands.  .  437 

Pasteurize  Milk,  to 64 

Pastry,    Barley     S-44 

Pastry    (Class  21),   Cooking 

and   Recipes    237 

Pastry,  Wheatless S-28 

Patterns  in  Cookery,   Plain.  1  13 

Peaches,    Pickled    305 

Peanut  Butter  Sauce 205 

Peanut  Butter,  Sandwiches.  263 
Peas,       Beans,       Lentils,      in 

Place  of  Meat 134 

Peas,   The  Garden    493 

Peas,  Recipes 200,  201 

Peppers,  The  Garden 497 

Peppers,    Recipes    200 

Perspiration,    Stains    369 

Person,     Care     of     the,     and 

Hygiene,    Section   VIII.  407 

Personal  Clothing 444 

Personal   Hygiene   and   Care 

of   the    Person,    Section 

VIII    407 

Pewter,    to   Clean    103 

Phosphorus,   Food  Value.  .  .  54 

Phosphorus   (in)   Milk 62 

Phosphorus  Poisoning,  Rem- 
edy   376 

Physiology,      The      Human 

Machine     407 

Pianos,  Care  of 13,    14,    15 

Pickled  Peaches 305 

Pickles  (and)  Catsup  (Class 
25),  Cooking  and  Rec- 
ipes      253 

Pickles,    (to)   Keep 1 08 

Pickling  Foods  in  the  Home  283 

Picnic  Lunches,   Menus    ...  318 

Picture    Nails     19 

Pies,    (See)    Pastry 237 

Pigeon,    Game,    Recipes....  158 

Pigs,   Carriers  of  Diseases.  .  386 

Pillows,  Feather 25 

Pillows,    (to)    Wash 347 

Pipe  Leak,  Stop 337 

Pitch,  Stains 369 

Plain  Patterns  in  Cookery .  .  113 

Plan,  Home  Garden 479 

Planks,   Steak 102 


Planning  Meals,  War  Econ- 
omy   S-2  1 

Plants,   Diseases  and  Insects.  489 

Plants,  Indoors 467 

Planting  Rules,    Garden    .  .  .  488 

Planting  Table,  Garden  .  .  .  486 
Planting,  When  to  Plant  and 

Depth    485 

Plaster,    Wall     19 

Plaster,   Back  and    Chest.  .  .  403 

Plaster,  Court 403 

Plowing,  Breaking,  Soil.  .  .  .  484 

Poison  Ivy 376,   403 

Poisoning,    Ptomaine     404 

Poisons  and  Treatment.  ...  376 

Policy,  Food  Administration.  S-l  I 

Policy,  Fuel  Administration.  S-69 

Policy,    (The)    Wheat S-l  7 

Policy,  Wheat  Saving  Pro- 
gram      S-23 

Polish,    Silver    42 

Polish  Stove,  To 326 

Popcorn,  Candies 273 

Potato  Breads 214 

Potato  Rolls 223 

Potato  Water,  Soup 354 

Potatoes,    (to)  Bake 203 

Potatoes,     (to)    Boil    203 

Potatoes,    Garden    494 

Potatoes,  (in)  Place  of  Meat  134 
Potatoes,     Preserving     and 

Canning     311 

Potatoes,   Recipes    ........  202 

Potatoes    (to)    Save    Cereals  59 

Potatoes,  Sweet 203 

Potatoes,   Use,   Value,   etc..  195 

Pork,  Choosing  and  Cuts..  127 
Pork,     (Class     6),     Cooking 

and  Recipes    149 

Porcelain   Ware    101 

Popovers,  Biscuit  (Class  19) 

Cooking  and  Recipes.  .  226 

Porterhouse,    Butcher    Cuts.  126 

Pots,  Flower 474 

Pottery  Ware 101 

Poultices 403 

Poultry    (Class    7)    Cooking 

and   Recipes    151 

Poultry,      Keeping,      in      the 

Home 315 

Poultry,      Preserving      and 

Canning     301 

Poultry,    Selecting     151 

Powder,  Bath 421 

Powder,    Insect 328 

Powder,  Washing 353 

Practical   Dietetics     391 

Practices,    Planting,    Garden    488 
Prairie    Chicken,    Game    ...     1 58 
Precautions    Against    Insects 
Attacking    Dried    Prod- 
ucts         313 

Preparation   of  Fish 161 

Preparation.  Special  Din- 
ners, Suppers,  Lunch- 
eons         317 

Pregnancy,      Expectant 

Mother    447 

Prenatal  Care 449 

Preserves  (Class  31),  Cook- 
ing and  Recipes 283 

Preserves,     Jellies,     Jams, 

Making 303 

Preserves,  Sun 299,  304 

Preservation,    Cut    Flowers.    474 


Preserving     (and)     Canning 

Recipes 295 

Preserving    Foods    in    the 
Home,       (Class      31), 

Cooking    and    Recipes.  283 

Preserving   Meats 301 

President    Wilson,    A    Word 

from     xv 

Pressing    Garments,    etc....  359 
Prices,      Conservation     Does 

Not  Mean xiii 

Principles    (of)    Cookery    of 

Meats     129 

Principles,     Cooking     Vege- 
tables       193 

Principles  of  Stain  Removals  364 

Protection,  Organs  of 409 

Protein,    Digestion     413 

Protein,    Functions 51 

Protein    (in)    Milk    61 

Proper  Attitude  of  the  Body  445 
Protecting     Plants,      Insects, 

Diseases     489 

Proportions     and    Measures, 

Tables .  91 

Prunes,   Fruits 266 

Prune  Whip,  Custards 246 

Ptomaine  Poisoning 404 

Publications,  Reference  Lists  S-58 

Pudding,  Bread 212 

Pudding,  Farina 220 

Pudding,    Indian,    Crumbs .  .  212 

Pudding,    Indian,    Corn-Meal  2 1  6 
Puddings       (and)       Pudding 
Sauces      (C  lass     22), 

Cooking    and    Recipes.  241 

Puffy  Eyes    423 

Punches,  Drinks 277 

Puree,   Soup 117 

Q 

Quail,    Game,    Recipes 1  58 

Quenelles,   Entrees 1 75 

Quilts,   to  Wash 347 

R 

Rabbit,    Game,    Recipes....  157 

Radish,  Garden 492 

Raincoat,   (to)  Clean 356 

Raised    Bread     208 

Raisin  Bread 210 

Raisins,    (to)    Keep   Moist..  108 
Ramekins,     Casserole    Cook- 
ing       76 

Range     (to)     Regulate     and 

Manage    78 

Rarebits,    Cheese     182 

Raspberries,  Garden 500 

Rations,  Camp 302 

Rats,  Carriers   (of)   Diseases  386 

Reduce  Fat,    Diet 394 

Reduce   Flesh    404 

Refrigerator,       Care       (and) 

Cleaning 43 

Refrigerator     (and)     Dining 

Room     39 

Refrigerator       (The)       "Ice- 
less"     80 

Regulations,    Planting,    Gar- 
den      488 

Relative  Value    (of)    Foods.  49 
Relaxation,      (in)     Walking, 

etc 445 


XXVI 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 


Relishes,  Pickles 254 

Remedies     (in     a)     Nutshell, 

Home     403 

Removal    (of)    Stains 364 

Remove   Stoppers,   to 1 04 

Repair-Kit    (for)    Household  98 

Respiration,    (for)    Colds.  .  .  398 

Respiration,  Organs  of  ...  .  408 

Respiration,  (to)  Restore..  377 
Rheumatism,    Treatment, 

Diet     392 

Rhubarb,   Garden 499 

Ribs,  Butcher  Cuts 126 

Rice    Breads     214 

Rice  Muffins,  Biscuit 225 

Rice,    (in)    Place    (of)    Meat  134 

Rice  Pudding 241 

Rice,    Recipes    204 

Rice,    Rolls    223 

Rice  Water 280 

Roaches,    Cock,    Insects.  ...  331 

Roaches,    (to)    Dispose   of.  .  336 

Roasting,    Meats    123 

Roe,  Shad,  Recipes 1  63 

Rolls     (Class     18),     Cooking 

and   Recipes    223 

Root  Crops,  Garden 494 

Rotations     and     Successions, 

Garden     491 

Rough  Hands 437 

Rubber  Articles,    (to)    Keep  35 

Rubber  Plants 474 

Rubbers,   Care  of 35 

Rugs    16 

Rump,  Butcher  Cuts 126 

Russe,  Charlotte,  (see)  Pas- 
try    239 

Rust,  Metal 28 

Rusty  Irons,  Laundry 361 

Rusty  Iron  Ware,  to  Clean.  102 

Rusty   Nail   Accident     378 

Rutabagas,     Garden     499 

Rye  Breads 214 

S 

Saccharine,    Sugar     67 

Saddle,   Mutton,  Venison...     127 

Sage,   Garden 499 

Sage,    Seasonings    257 

Salads  (and  Salad)  Dress- 
ings (Class  15),  Cook- 
ing and  Recipes 185 

Salads,    Value    and    Making.     186 

Salads,    Recipes     1 86 

Salad  Oil,  Fats 71 

Salad  Vegetables,    Garden..    498 
Salmon,    Canned,    Recipes .  .     164 

Salmon,    Fresh     1 60 

Salmon  Trout,  Recipes   ....     163 

Salsify,    Recipes    200 

Salt,    (a)    Fire    Extinguisher    1 03 

Salt    (that)    Lumps 108 

Salting  Foods  for  Preserva- 
tion        288 

Salts,    Mineral,    Functions. .  .       51 
Sandwiches  and  Nuts   (Class 
27),  Cooking  and  Rec- 
ipes      259 

Sardines,   Sandwiches 261 

Sauces,  Fish  and  Meat  (Class 
II),  Cooking  and  Rec- 
ipes)          167 

Sauces,    Fruit,    Left-Over ...     110 


Sauces,    Patterns,     in    Cook- 
ery          113 

Sauces,  Pickle 254 

Sauces   (in)   Place  of  Meats.     134 
Sauces,    Puddings    ........    24 1 

Sauteing,    Meats    124 

Save  Fuel  When  You  Cook.       78 
Saving  Coal,  Five  Ways   ...  S-76 

Saving  Meats    S-32 

Saving   Sugar    S-32 

Saving  Wheat S-23 

Savories    (Class    14),    Cook- 
ing and  Recipes 1  79 

Scallops,    Shellfish     1 66 

Scalp   and   Hair,   The 427 

Scars  on  Face   . 423 

Scent    for    Linens    24 

Schedule,    Household    9 

Scorch,  Stains 369 

Screens,   Fly 329 

Screens,    Wire,    to    Mend...       28 

Season,  Fish  in    . 1  60 

Seasonings    and    Their    Uses 
(Class      26),      Cooking 

and    Recipes    257 

Seasonal   Menus    319 

Seed  Beds,  Garden 478,   488 

Selecting   Poultry 151 

Selection       (of)       Household 

Equipment     7 

Selection    (of)    Fish 160 

Sensation,   Organs  of 410 

Serge    (to)    Clean 348 

Service     Club,     National 

Home-Keepers'     v,  vi 

Service    (at)    Table    41 

Serving    (of)   Meals,  Menus.     317 

Set  Color,  to 31,  345,  356 

Setting-out  Plants 488 

Setting  Table    41 

Sewing    Machine   and   Room      37 

Shad,    Fish 160 

Shad  (and)  Roe,  Recipes..  163 
Shades,   Curtains,   Cushions.       21 

Shampoo,  Hair 427 

Shampoo,   Recipe 429 

Shawl,   to  Wash 347 

Sheep,  Carriers  of  Diseases.    386 
Shellfish,     Carriers     of     Dis- 
eases        386 

Shellfish    (Class    10),    Cook- 
ing and  Recipes 165 

Sherbets,   Ice  Creams 251 

Shock,    Fainting    376 

Shoddy    33 

Shoes,  Care  of 35 

Shoes,  Feet 441 

Shortage,     (The)    Wheat.  .  .     S-4 
Shortcake,       Biscuit       (Class 
19),   Cooking  and  Rec- 
ipes        225 

Short-Dough  Process,  Bread  208 
Short-Sponge  Method,  Bread  208 
Shoulder,   Butcher  Cuts    ...     126 

Shoulders,    Carriage 445 

Shrimp,    Shellfish    166 

Shrink  Cotton  Goods 31 

Shrink     Linens     and     Wash- 
Goods    37 

Shrink,   Sponge,  Wool 33 

Sick,    Care   of 371 

Sick,  Diet  for  the 387 

Sick  Room,   Family  Doctor.     371 

Silence    Cloth 41 

Silk,  Characteristics 34 


Silk,    (to)    Launder 347,  349 

Silk,  Testing 34 

Silver,     (its)     Care    and     to 

Clean     42 

Silver      Nitrate,      Poisoning, 

Remedy 376 

Silver  Polish 42 

Silver,    Table     41 

Silver  Ware,  Use  and  Care,  101 
Simple   Terms   in   Electricity      23 

Sink,   to   Flush  and  Clean..  326 

Sirloin,  Butcher  Cuts 126 

Situation,    (The)    Wheat...  S- 13 

Sizing    of    Cotton    32 

Skim-Milk   vs.    Beef    135 

Skin,  Care  of  the 424 

Skin,    Face,    Complexion ...  421 

Skin   (a)    Fish,  to 161 

Skirts,    to    Hang 355 

Slaw,  Recipes 200 

Sleeplessness    404 

Slippers,  Kid,  to  Clean   ....  348 

Smell  and  Taste 411 

Smelts,    Fish    1 60 

Smelts,    Recipes     1 62 

Smoked  Ceilings 336 

Smoked    Walls     19 

Snaps,  Ball  and  Socket.  .  .37,  38 

Soap,  Adulteration 353 

Soap,    Antiseptic 353 

Soap      Formulas,      Solutions 

and  Substitutes 354 

Soap,    (The)    Laundry    ....  353 

Soap,    Saving     336 

Soap   (and)  Water,  Disinfec- 
tant      381 

Soda  Substitutes 230 

Soda,   Washing 340 

Sofa,    Cushions 21 

Soft  Doughs,   Patterns 114 

Soft  Soap 354 

Soft  Water 339 

Soften  Water,  to 340 

Soil,  Home  Garden 478 

Soil,  Testing,  Garden 483 

Soot,   Stains 368,  369 

Souffle    Cases,     Casserole 

Cooking    .' 76 

Souffle,  Entrees 177 

Souffles,    Patterns 114 

Souffles,    Puddings     ..  .  243 

Soups     (Class     I),    Cooking 

and   Recipes    117 

Soups,    Canning 299 

Soup    Mixtures     (for)     Can- 
ning    311 

Soup    (in)    Place   of  Meat..  135 

Soup   Recipes 118 

Soup,  Stale  Bread 211 

Sour-Cream   Cheese 181 

Soy  Beans,  Recipes 199 

Spaghetti       (in)       Place      of 

Meat 133 

Spaghetti,    Recipes    204 

Spanish  Mackerel 1  62 

Spanish    Omelet    1  72 

Spice  Cake 235 

Spices,    Seasonings 257 

Spinach,  Garden 498 

Spinach,    Recipes     201 

Split-Hair    429 

Sponge,  Cake 231 

Sponge  Method,  Bread    ....  209 

Sponges    (to)    Keep 336 


ALPHABETICAL  INDEX-^S 


XXVII 


Sponging     (and)     Shrinking 

Wool 33 

Sponging,    Stains     365 

Spoons,   Choice  and  Care.  .       98 

Spoon,    Wooden 109 

Spots   (on)   Velvet 35 

Sprains,    Bruises,    Poultices.    403 

Sprains  (to)  Treat 377 

Sprouts,  Brussels,  Recipes.  .  198 
Spring  Season,   Menus    ....    319 

Sprinkling,  Laundry 344 

Spraying       Plants,       Insects, 

Diseases     490 

Squab,  Game,  Recipes 158 

Squash,    Garden    498 

Squash,   Recipes 201 

Squirrels,     Carriers    of    Dis- 
eases        386 

Squirrel,    Game,    Recipes...     157 

Stained   Glass    Ware,    Cruet, 

to   Clean 103 

Stains  and  Cleaning 339 

Stains,    Floor     17 

Stains,  Removal  or 363 

Stairs,   Walking  Up 445 

Stale  Bread 211 

Staple  Food  Savers 59 

Starch,  Cooking  and  Making   354 
Starch  (and)  Substitutes...    354 
Starch    (and)    Sugar,  Diges- 
tion        413 

Starching,    Laundry    343 

State    Food    Administrators.     S-9 

Steak    Planks    1 02 

Steam,    Disinfectant    383 

Steel    (and)    Iron,   and   Care 

of     99 

Steel  Ware,  to  Clean 102 

Sterilization,    for   Canning.  .    295 
Stimulants,    Beverages    ....    280 
Stimulants     (for)     Emergen- 
cies        376 

Stimulation,  Organs  of   ....    409 

Stock,   for  Soup 117 

Stockings,  Feet 441 

Stockings,   to  Wash 348 

Stone    Ware    101 

Stopper,   Bottles 403 

Stoppers  (to)  Remove.  ...  104 
Storing  Foods  in  the  Home.  283 
Storing      (and)      Packing 

Dried  Products 313 

Stove,    Clean  and   Flush,   to.     326 

Stove,  Oil 27 

Stove    (or)    Oven,  Makeshift    105 

Stove  Polish,  Stains 369 

Straight-Dough  Bread   Proc- 
ess        208 

Strawberries,  Garden 500 

String   Beans,    Recipes 198 

Structure    (of  the)   Body...    407 
Structure     (and)     Composi- 
tion of  Vegetables ....     191 

Strudel,   Apple    242 

Strychnine   Poisoning,    Rem- 
edy        376 

Study  (on)  Beverages.  ...  278 
Study,      Club      and      Home, 

Food  Conservation    .  .  .  S-53 
Study,   Lists  of  Bulletins  forS-58 

Stuffing   (for)   Fish 161 

Stuffing,  Poultry  and  Game.     155 
Substitutes  (for)  Cake-Mak- 
ing and  Other  Uses    .  .    230 
Substitutes      (in     place     of) 

Meats     133 


Substitutions,    Measurements 

for S-10,  S-49 

Substitutions,    Suggestions.  .  S-20 
Substitutions,         Victory 

Breads ...  .  S-25 

Successions     and     Rotations, 

Garden 491 

Succotash,   Recipes 199 

Sucrose,  Sugar 65 

Sugar  Cookery,  Tests  in.  .  .  269 

Sugar,    Saving     S-32 

Sugar    (and)    Starch,  Diges- 
tion      413 

Sugar  Substitute 230 

Sugar  Syrup 1  08 

Sugar:    (a)    Valuable   Food.  65 
Sugar    (and   Its)    Value  as  a 

Food    67 

Summer  Season,   Menus    ...  320 

Sun   Preserves    299,  304 

Sunlight,    Disinfectant     ....  382 

Sunlight,  Home  Garden    .  .  .  480 

Sunstroke,    Treatment    ....  375 

Superfluous    Hairs     423 

Suppers,    Menus 318 

Supplement,  Contents  of .  .  .  S-3 
Supplement,    Food    Adminis- 
tration,  Begins    S-1 

Supplement,    Fuel    Adminis- 
tration,  Begins S-69 

Swallowing    Fish-Bone     ....  379 

Sweaters    (to)    Wash 348 

Sweaters      (to)      Wash     and 

Bleach 346 

Sweeper,    to   Renovate    ....  27 

Sweetbreads,   Recipes 148 

Sweetbreads  Croquettes,  En- 
trees      176 

Sweet    Potatoes     203 

Swine,  Carriers  of  Diseases.  386 

Swiss  Chard,  Garden 498 

Swollen    Feet     442 

Syllabub,    Fruits    265 

Syrups,    Canning     298 

Syrups,    (for)  Canning   ....  293 

Syrup,    Fruit,   Drinks    277 

Syrup    (from)    Sugar 108 

Syrups,   Sweet,   Sugar  Cook- 
ery,  Candies 269 

T 

Table  Beautiful,  The  Dining  39 

Table    Cloth     41 

Table      (of)     Contents,     The 

Home-Keeping    Book  .  .  ix 
Table     (of)     Contents,    Sup- 
plement     S-3 

Table   Decoration,    Flowers.  471 

Table,  Kitchen,   Movable ...  104 

Table  Linen,  Dining 40 

Table  Mats 42 

Table      (of)      Measurements 

and  Proportions 91 

Table       (of)       Measurements 

for   Substitutions S- 1  0 

Table      (of)      Measurements 

for  Wheatless  Recipes.  S-49 

Table   Setting    and    Serving.  41 
Tabourets       (of)       Onion 

Crates    474 

Take  Stock  of  Your  Looks.  419 

Talcum    Powders    422 

Talks  on  Foods,  Section  Be- 
gins      47 

Tanglefoot   Fly-Papers    ....  329 


Tapestry        Curtains         (to) 

Clean     21 

Tapioca    Pudding    242 

Tar,   Stains 369 

Tartar   Sauce    1 67 

Tartar,  Teeth 431 

Tarnish,    Silverware    101 

Tarragon,   Seasonings 257 

Tarts  (see)   Pastry 237 

Taste  and  Smell,  Organs.  .  .  411 

Tea,    Afternoon    Menus....  318 

Tea,    Drinks     276 

Tea,  Stains 369 

Teeth    (the)    Baby's   First..  452 

Teeth,   Care  of 43  | 

Teething,   Baby's 452 

Temperature      (for)      Oven, 

Interpretation    230 

Temperatures,   for  Sick    ...  3  75 
Temperatures,      Tests      in 
Sugar     Cookery,     Can- 
dies      269 

Ten    Lessons   on    Food    Con- 
servation      S-55 

Tender  Feet 442 

Test  Eggs,   to    171 

Tests    (in)    Sugar    Cookery, 

Candies    269 

Testing  Silk,  Wool,  Textiles, 

31,  34 
Textiles,    Characteristics, 

Care  and  Use 31 

Thanksgiving   Menus    317 

Thread,   Knotting 38 

Throat,    Fish-Bone    379 

Throat    (and)    Nose 397 

Thyme,    Seasonings     257 

Ticks  and  Mites,  Carriers  of 

Diseases     386 

Tight   Shoes    442 

Timbales,    Bread    Crumbs. .  .  213 

Timbales,    Entrees     177 

Timbales,   Patterns  in  Cook- 
ery      114 

Tin   (and)   Care  of 99 

Tinware     (to)     Clean     103 

Tired   Feeling 404 

Toast,  Breads 213 

Toasts,    Savories 1  79 

Toes,  Care  of  the 441 

Tomatoes,    Garden     496 

Tomatoes,   Recipes 201 

Tomatoes     (and)      Milk,     to 

Blend 108 

Tongue,    Beef    139 

Tonics,    Beverages     281 

Tonics,  Hair 428 

Tonsils,     Enlarged     or     Dis- 
eased      401 

Tools,    Garden     483 

Tools,    Repair    Kit     98 

Tooth    Paste.    Wash    432 

Towels    (for)    Baby 451 

Towels,    Dish     42 

Trays,    Serving 42 

Transmitters      of      Diseases, 

Animals     386 

Treatment      (of)      Emergen- 
cies        375 

Treatment   (of)   Stains    ....    365 

Trimmings,  Meat 127,    131 

Tripe,  Beef 140 

Trout,   Recipes 163 

Trying-out  Fat 131 


XXV11I 


THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 


Tub,  Wash 360 

Tuberculosis,  Treatment, 

Diet 392 

Tuna   Fish    (and)    Recipes, 

160,  163 

Turkey,  Poultry 149 

Turnips,    Garden     499 

Turnips,  Recipes    201 

u 

Underweight,   Treatment    .  .  395 

Until  Next  Harvest S-4 

Use  (for)  Bones 132 

Use  (of)  Cereal  Foods  ....  217 
Use    (of)    Cheese    (in    the) 

Diet 179 

Use     (and)    Composition    of 

Indian   Corn 194 

Use  (of)  Flowers,  Decora- 
tive   471 

Use   (of)  Meat  in  the  Home  130 

Use   (of)   Potatoes  as  Food.  195 

Use  (of  the)  Oven 77 

Utensils  (for)   Cleaning.  ...  28 
Utensils,      Cleaning       (and) 

Washing  the  Dishes    .  .  107 
Utensils       (and)       Conveni- 
ences,     Kitchen,      Care 

and  Selection  of 93 

Utensils,    Laundry,    Ironing.  360 

Utensils,   Making  Bread.  .  .  .  208 
Utility,   General,    Section    II, 

Begins   23 

V 

Vaccination     401 

Value   (of)   Bread  as  Food..  207 

Value   (of)   Cereal  Foods. .  .  217 

Value  (of)  Cheese  as  Food.  180 

Value   (of)   Foods,  Relative.  49 

Value   (of)   Meat  as  Food.  .  130 

Value  (of)  Potatoes  as  Food  195 

Vlaue   (of)   Salads  as  Food.  185 

Value   (of)  Wood  as  Fuel.  .  S-73 

Varnish,   Stains 369 

Vase,  to  Mend 14 

Vaseline,   Stains    369 

Veal,   Choosing   and   Cuts.  .  127 
Veal  (Class  5)  Cooking  and 

Recipes 145 

Veal    (or)    Mutton,   Butcher 

Cuts    125 

Vegetables      (Class      16), 

Cooking    and    Recipes.  191 

Vegetables,   Blanching    ....  193 

Vegetables,   Canned 197 

Vegetables,    Canning    (and) 

Preserving 295 

Vegetables,  Canning,  Pre- 
serving, etc 283 

Vegetables,    Classification .  .  191 
Vegetable      Cooking,      Prin- 
ciples    193 

Vegetables,   Dried 197 

Vegetables       (and)       Fruits, 

Drying 309 

Vegetables       (and)       Fruits, 

Food   Value    53 

Vegetables  (and)  Fruits, 
Fresh,  Use  of  as  Con- 
servers     58 

Vegetable     Garden,     The 

Home    477 


Vegetables,    General    Direc- 
tions      197 

Vegetables,  Keeping 314 

Vegetables,    Left-Over    ....  110 
Vegetables      (in)     Place     of 

Meats     134 

Vegetables,   Recipes 198 

Vegetables,     Structure     and 

Composition    191 

Vegetables   (for)   Winter.  ..  196 
Vegetarians    (or)    Meat  Eat- 
ers    49 

Velvet,  Restoring 35 

Venison,   Game,   Recipes...  157 

Venison   Sauce 169 

Ventilation,  Sick  Room.  ...  373 

Vermin,   Insects,   Mice 328 

Victory  Breads S-25 

Vinegar   Preservation   of 

Foods    289 

Vinegar       Mixtures       for 

Pickles     253 

Vitamines   in   Milk    62 

Voiles,   Cotton,   to  Wash...  349 

Volt,  Electrical 23 


w 

Waffles,    Biscuit    (Class    19), 

Cooking    and    Recipes.  225 

Waffles,    Corn-Meal    215 

Wagon   Grease,   Stains    ....  369 

Walls,    Broken    336 

Walls,   Wall-Paper    -  19 

Walking,    Proper    445 

Walking    (Up)    Stairs 445 

War  Economy  in  Food.  .  .  .  S-20 
War    and    Peace,    Study    on 

Food  in S-53 

Wash,  Astringent 422 

Wash-Day,    (The)    Work   on  341 

Wash  Goods,    (to)    Shrink.  .  37 

Wash  (for)  Mouth...  .374,  432 

Wash,   Preparing  for 341 

Wash  Tubs 360 

Washing,    Directions    for.  .  .  342 
Washing  (the)  Dishes  (and) 

Cleaning  Utensils    ....  107 
Washing   and   Drying    (the) 

Hands 437 

Washing   (the)   Feet 441 

Washing  (the)  Hair 427 

Washing  Powders 353 

Washing  Soda 340 

Waste    (of)    Foods,    Ways..  S- 16 
Water,     Alkaline     and     Car- 
bonated      280 

Water  Bottles,  Care 336 

Water  Bugs 336,  337 

Water,    Food    Functions ....  51 
Water,   (for)   Laundry,  Hard 

and   Soft 339 

Water  Pipe  Leak 337 

Water    and    Soap,    Disinfec- 
tant     381 

Waterproofing   Shoes 35 

Watt,    Electrical    23 

Waxing,   Floors 16 

Waxing,   Furniture 13 

Way      (a)      Woman      Buys, 

The    3 

Ways     Women     Can     Help, 

Local   Marketing S-6 

Wearing  Apparel 31 


Weight,  Reduce  (or)  In- 
crease, Diets 394,  395 

Weights    and    Measures    for 

Wheatless  Recipes    ...  S-4  9 

Welsh   Rarebits 1 82 

What  (the)  Body  Needs...  57 
Wheat-Cereal,    Home 

Ground 221 

Wheat  Flour  in  Cereal  Foods, 

Amounts S-24 

Wheat  Policy,  The S-l  7 

Wheat  Saving   Program S-23 

Wheat  Shortage,  The S-4 

Wheat  Situation   .......        S- 1 3 

Wheat,  Why  We  Must  Send  S- 17 
Wheatless  Breads  and  Cakes  S-28 

Wheatless  Recipes S-37 

Whey  and   Curds 1 8 1 

Whip,    Fruit    267 

Whip,   Prune,   Custards    .  .  '.    246 

Whip  Thin  Cream 108 

Whiten    (the)   Hands 437 

Whiten    (the)    Nails 438 

Whiten  Skin,   to 422 

Who    Pays     (for    the)     Ad- 

vertising>    4 

Whole  Milk,  in  Place  of  Beef  135 
Why  We  Must  Send  Wheat  S- 17 

Wilson,    President,    A   Word 

from    xv 

Wine,  Stains 367,  369 

Window  Boxes 467 

Window,  Care  of 28 

Window,    (to)    Clean 28 

Window  Shades  and  Cur- 
tains           21 

Winter  Season,  Menus   ....    322 

Winter  Vegetables    J96 

Wire  Screen,  (to)  Mend...  28 
Wise   Choice    (of)    Food...  S-l 4 

Women     Can     Help,     Local 

Marketing S-6 

Wood   (for)   Fuel S-73 

Wood,  Steak  Planks 102 

Woodland,  Improve  Farm.  .  S-74 
Woodcock,    English,    Cheese    183 

Woodwork,  Care  of 27 

Woodwork,  (to)  Clean....  336 
Woodwork,  (to)  Clean,  (to) 

Dust    17 

Wool,  Characteristics 32 

Wool,    Testing    34 

Woolens,  Care  of ,  .  .       34 

Woolens,      Laundering     and 

Care    345 

Word  (from)  President  Wil- 
son           xv 

Wounds,  Disinfectants  ....  403 
Wounds,  Remedies  ..  .  .403,  404 

Wounds,   (to)  Treat 377 

Worcestershire  Sauce 168 

Worsteds 33 

Wringer,   Clothes 361 

Wrinkles,  Face 422 

Y 

Yeast,    (see)   Bread 207 

Yeast,   Liquid  Recipe S-22 

z 

Zinc,   to   Clean 103 


MEMORANDA  INDEX 


XXIX 


MEMORANDA  INDEX 

WRITE  HERE—Indexings  of  such  Scraps  and  Memos,  of  Your  Own 
as  you  from  time  to  time  Paste  or  Write  on  the  various  Blank  Pages 
shown  for  the  purpose  throughout  the  book 


B 


xxx  THE  HOME-KEEPING  BOOK— ALPHABETICAL  INDEX 


H 


O 


M 


K 


N 


MEMORANDA  INDEX 


XXXI 


u 


w 


* 


%v 


^ 


^c? 


"*# 


A 


•^d* 


*b  V 


%.^  : 


« w  -o  o  .   >  *         A 


jP*-* 


^ 


.•iq. 


*       j 


A 


ft?        ^ 


°o 


^ 


&S    <&     \ 

I  c°  ,C^L%   °o       .A* 

^ 

X      <?*iH&:0»      ^s-^kS      ^yJ^k°-      /^U:" 


,*V       6o«».      <* 


r«*-o* 


*bV 


o^0^, 


'      - '  *  °  -     >  v     *iJifC 


*      4T    ^ 


•bv" 


^d* 


^o* 


•bv" 


>0^ 


.  o   -        ^0 


0^     . '  •  i 


^ 


Jp-^. 


•1  o 
.0*  *• 


.««>     ,°"°. 


"^  G°      .  *  ^ ,      °o  4*      •  °^°  •      +> 


0J  <*> 


°  •  •  -  <** 


^c^ 


►  iv«.   > 


•to         • 


.40 


-  V jaw  ♦     a*    •*.      .  g7«!?2 


=1  «/> 
-A0  ° 


