.v:<?>00Q,ia\p 


j± 


A 


F£u 


JAri  10  i   | 


J*^*1 


B 


FEB  14 


A.  APR  20 

A.OCT  ee 


--  J 


% 


JAN  21 


APR  13 


\ 


THE 


HOUSEKEEPER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIA 


Sttftl  Intanata  for  fyt  f  rawtaiier 


IN  ALL   BRANCHES  OP 


COOKING  AND  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY 


CONTAINING 

THE  FIRST  SCIENTIFIC  AND  RELIABLE  RULES  FOR  PUTTING  UP  ALL 
KINDS  OF  HERMETICALLY-SEALED  FRUITS,  WITH  OR  WITH- 
OUT SUGAR,  IN  TIN  CANS  OR  COMMON  BOTTLES ; 

ALSO 

KULES  FOR  PRESERVING  FRUITS  IN  AMERICAN  AND 
FRENCH  STYLES; 


\/JG 


TRIED  RECEIPTS  FOR  MAKING  DOMESTIC  WINES,  CATSUPS, 
SYRUPS,  CORDIALS,  Etc.; 


AND   PRACTICAL    DIRECTIONS    FOR    THE    CULTIVATION    OF   VEGETABLES,    FRUITS, 
AND  FLOWERS,  DESTRUCTION  OF  INSECTS,  ETC.,  ETC. 


BY 

MRS.  E.  F.  HASKELL. 


NEW  YORK: 
D.   APPLETON  &   CO.,   443   &   445   BROADWAY. 

X  •••   ■     -  i  •  1361.     m  -  ..  . 

TV 


Entesed,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  I860,  by 

D.    APPLETON    &    CO., 

In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States  for  the  Southern 

District  of  New  York. 


. 


t ; ' 


PEEFACE. 


In  our  grandmothers'  time,  no  greater  praise  could  be  spoken 
of  a  lady,  than  to  say  she  was  a  perfect  housekeeper ;  while  in 
the  present  generation,  woman  is  taught  too  much  to  look  on 
the  happiness,  health,  and  comfort  of  her  family  as  in  no  way 
ted  vith  the  every-day  management  of  her  house,  table, 
ider  many  intelligent  men  look  with  abhorrence 
d  ladies,  shunning  them  for  life  companions,  and 
choosing  women  below  themselves  in  education  and  intellect,  far 
less  congenial  in  every  respect,  and  wholly  unable  to  fill  with 
credit  the  station  they  are  called  to  occupy  in  public,  or  to 
sympathize  in  private  with  the  refined  tastes  of  their  husbands. 
The  more  intelligent  the  woman,  the  more  perfectly  should  she 
perform  the  several  duties  of  her  station.  An  educated  man 
does  not  consider  his  intellect  degraded  by  bringing  to  his  as- 
sistance in  the  every-day  business  of  life,  the  whole  power  of  his 
mind,  natural  or  acquired,  and  the  more  intelligent  the  man,  the 
better  success,  all  things  being  equal,  attends  his  efforts.  We 
educate  our  sons  that  they  may  fill  with  honor  to  themselves, 
and  the  good  of  the  community  generally,  the  various  stations 
they  may  be  called  upon  to  occupy  ;  should  we  not  use  the  same 
good  sense,  in  the  education  of  our  daughters  ?  preparing  them 
for  useful  and  happy  wives,  mothers,  and  mistresses,  as  well  as 
polished,  graceful  ladies  ;  capable  of  giving  pleasure  to  all  who 


IV  PREFACE. 

come  within  their  influence,  as  well  in  the  home  circle  as  in 
public.  Ladies  with  cultivated  minds  should  be  not  only  more 
congenial  companions  and  judicious  mothers,  but  better  house- 
keepers, than  those  who  have  been  less  favored.  That  this  is 
not  generally  the  case,  too  many  sadly  neglected  households  of 
ladies,  who  shine  in  literary  circles,  bear  witness.  Surely,  she 
who  neglects  present  duties,  while  crowding  the  mind,  must  lack 
some  of  the  essentials  necessary  to  the  character  of  a  true 
woman.  Housekeeping,  in  its  several  branches,  is  itself  a  study 
not  to  be  despised.  To  excel,  as  in  any  other  branch  of  educa- 
tion, it  must  be  pursued  with  interest,  patience,  system,  and 
perseverance.  No  woman  exists,  deserving  the  name  of  wife 
and  mother,  who  would  not  feel  complimented,  to  establish  the 
reputation  of  making  her  home  happy  for  her  family,  as  well  as 
pleasant  for  her  guests.  To  become  an  intelligent  housekeeper, 
a  lady  must  acquaint  herself  with  the  laws  of  the  human  consti- 
tution the  qualities  of  provisions,  and  the  mode  of  preparing 
healthy,  and,  at  the  same  time,  palatable  dishes.  The  great 
efforts  of  housekeepers  should  not  be  confined  to  the  present  en- 
joyment of  elegant  dishes,  formed  to  please  the  taste  without  re- 
gard to  utility.  The  daily  food  for  a  family  should  consist  of 
the  elements  most  needed  by  its  members,  to  develop  their 
systems,  mentally  and  physically;  taking  into  account  their 
ages,  health,  employment,  and '  tastes.  Many  seem  to  imagine 
the  coarsest  food  most  conducive  to  health,  and  conscientiously 
avoid  the  little  made  dishes,  shunning  them  as  so  much  poison. 
They  say,  "  Our  grandmothers  always  supplied  such  food  to 
their  families,  and  if  we  succeed  in  bringing  up  our  children  with 
as  firm  constitutions  as  our  parents,  we  shall  be  satisfied ;  we 
think  there  are  more  important  duties  to  be  performed  in  the 
world,  than  beating  eggs  and  making  pastry."  These  house- 
keepers do  not  stop  to  think  of  the  difference  in  the  times. 


PREFACE.  V 

Our  grandparents  enjoyed  their  pork  and  beans  as  well,  no 
doubt,  as  we  now  do  the  more  elaborate  cooking  of  the  present 
day,  but  then  they  chopped  their  own  wood,  ploughed,  threshed, 
mowed,  raked,  etc.,  with  their  own  right  arm,  with  no  aid  from 
machinery.  The  girls  in  those  days  walked  three  miles  to 
school  in  winter,  and  spun  and  wove  in  summer ;  rode  the  wild- 
est colts  without  saddle,  etc.  The  boys,  meantime,  studying  in 
winter,  and  farming  during  the  summer.  Ladies  rode  hundreds 
of  miles  on  horseback,  or  if  in  wagons,  jolted  without  springs 
over  byways,  etc., /consuming  more  oxygen  in  one  day  than  their 
descendants  do  in  three ;  pork  was  needed  to  sustain  them ; 
'  but  let  us  live  in  the  same  manner,  with  no  more  exercise  than 
we  at  present  take,  and  we  should  soon  see  the  effect  in  feeble 
constitutions,  and  scrofulous  diseases.  According  to  the  necessities 
of  the  times,  our  grandmothers  were,  as  a  general  thing,  ahead 
of  us  in  housekeeping ;  their  mode  of  cooking  was  what  their 
families  needed,  as  the  well-developed  frames,  and  strong  con- 
stitutions of  our  parents  attest.  Some  again  err  the  other  way ; 
thinking  nothing  fit  to  eat,  unless  as  rich  with  butter,  spices, 
etc.*  as  possible.  These  err  as  much  in  their  ideas  as  the  first ; 
they  forget  that  rich,  oily  food  is  nearly  the  same  to  the 
stomach,  in  whatever  form  it  is  produced.  The  French  mode 
of  preparing  food  is,  perhaps,  as  palatable  and  healthy  as  any 
(except  always  the  spices),  which  forms  the  objection  to  their 
mode  of  cooking.  This  defect  can  be  avoided ;  it  is  unneces- 
sary to  spice  fish  and  meats ;  and  to  American  tastes  is  not 
as  agreeable.  The  more  perfectly  the  flavor  of  the  meats  are 
preserved,  the  more  healthy,  and,  usually,  the  more  palatable 
the  dish.  The  same  may  be  said  of  fruits  ;  the  art  of  preserving 
these  naturally,  was  first  discovered  by  the  French.  In  this 
work,  full  and  explicit  directions  are  given  for  preserving  all 
American  fruits,  and  a  few  which  are  imported.     Fruits  pre- 


VI  PREFACE. 


pared  in  this  manner,  arc  much  more  conducive  to  health  when 
i  used  as  dinner  desserts,  than  so  much  rich  pastry.  We  have 
endeavored  to  make  this  work  a  complete  encyclopedia  for  the 
housekeeper  ;  going  minutely  into  many  things,  which,  to  an 
experienced  person  may  seem  superfluous,  but  which  would, 
had  she  possessed  them,  been  of  benefit  to  the  writer,  in  her 
first  housekeeping.  Many  of  the  receipts  are  original,  and  we 
think  all  good.  Those  appertaining  to  fruits,  except  a  few 
French  rules,  originated  with  the  author.  Many  persons  put  up 
fruits,  who  have  never  published  their  rules.  She  thinks  the 
directions  for  preserving  hermetically  sealed  fruits  in  this  book 
are  the  first  reliable  rules  published. 

E.  F.  Haskell 


TABLES  OF  WEIGHTS,  MEASURES,  ETC. 


Ale  or  Beer  Measure,  used  for  Measuring:  Milk,  etc. 


MARKED. 

MARKED. 

2  pints 

make 

1  quart          qt. 

36  gallons 

make 

1  barrel          bar. 

4  quarts 

" 

1  gallon         gal. 

54  gallons 

44 

1  hogshead    hhd. 

Dry  Measure,  used  for  Measuring-  Coarse  Vegetables,  and,  in  some 
Markets,  Berries. 


2  pints 
8  quarts 


make 


1  quart 
1  peck 


qt. 
pk. 


4  pecks 
86  bushels 


make 


1  bushel 
1  chaldron 


bu. 
ch. 


Avoirdupois  Weight,  used  in  Weighing  Tea,  Sugar,  Butter,  etc. 

16  drachms      make  1  ounce  oz. 

16  ounces  M  1  pound  lb. 

25  pounds  "  1  quarter        qr. 


4  quarters  make    1  hundredweight     cwt. 
20  hundredweights  make    1  ton  T. 


Troy  Weight,  used  in  Weighing  Gold,  Silver,  etc. 

24  grains       make       1  pennyweight   pwt.  I  12  ounces         make  1  pouDd 

20  pennyweights    make    1  ounce         oz.     I 

Apothecaries  Weight,  used  in  Preparing  Drugs,  etc. 


lb. 


20  grains 

make 

1  scruplo              3 

|    S  drachms     make            1  ounce            5 

2  scruples 

44 

1  drachm             3 

1  12  ounces            "              1  pound          Jb 

Miscellaneous. 

12  uruts 

make 

1 

dozen. 

A  sheet  folded  in  24  leaves 

24mo. 

12  dozen 

it 

1 

gross. 

32      " 

S2mo. 

12  gross 

u 

1 

great  gross. 

24  sheets  cf  paper         make 

1    quire. 

20  things 

44 

1 

score. 

20  quires        "               *  " 

1    ream. 

100  pounds 

it 

1 

quintal  of  fish. 

2  reams        4.                   " 

1    bundle. 

196  pounds 

k 

1 

barrel  of  flour. 

5  bundles     "                  ■ 

1    bale. 

200  pounds' 

it 

1 

barrel  of  pork. 

1  quart  of  flour           weighs 

lib. 

IS  inches 

41 

1 

cubit. 

1  quart  of  powdered  loaf-sugar 

22  inches 

u 

1 

sacred  cubit. 

weighs 

1  lb.  1  oz. 

14  pounds  of  iron  or 

lead 

make    1  stone. 

1  quart  of  Indian  meal  weighs 

1  lb.  2  oz. 

21£  stones 

44 

44 

"      1  pig. 

1  common  sized  teacup  of  hard 

8    pigs 

" 

u 

44       1  fother. 

butter  weighs 

ilb. 

A.  sheet  foldet 

in  2  leaves  is  a  folio. 

S  large  table-spoonfuls  measure 

lgilL 

44           " 

4 

it 

quarto,  or  4to. 

25  drops  fill  a  common  teaspoon 

"           " 

8 

" 

octavo,or  Svo. 

4  common  table-spoons  fill  a  wine-glass. 

u                   « 

12 

it 

12mo. 

A  common  wine-glass  holds  half  a  gill. 

a            h 

16 

44 

16mo. 

A  common  tumbler  holds  half  a 

pint. 

Vlll 


TABLES    OF   WEIGHTS,    MEASURES,    ETC. 


Cloth  Measure,  used  in  Measuring:  all  Goods. 


MARKED. 

2i  inches,  (in.)  make   1  nail  na. 

4  nails  "       1  qr.  of  a  yard  qr. 

3  quarters  "       1  ell  Flemish  E.F. 


MASKED. 

4  quarters         make    1  yard  yd. 

5  quarters  u       1  ell  English    E.  E. 


Linear  Measure,  used  in  Measuring:  all  distances. 


12  inches  make 
3  feet  " 

5J  yards       " 

40   yards      " 


1  foot  ft. 

1  yard         _  yd. 

1  rod,  perch,  or  pole  rd. 
1  furlong  fur. 


8   furlongs       make     1  mile  ml 

64J  statute,  or  60  geo-  )  make  1  degree    deg. 
graphical  miles,       J  of  the  equator  or  • 
360  degrees,  a  circumference  of  the  earth. 


Square  Measure,  used  in  Measuring:  Land,  Rooms,  etc. 


144  square  inches  (sq.  in.)  make  1  square 
foot  (sq.  ft.). 

9  square  feet  make  1  square  yard  (sq.  yd.). 

30J  square  yards  make  1  square  rod,  or 
perch  (P.), 


40  square  rods,  or  perches  make  1  square 
rood  (E.). 
4  square  roods  make  1  square  acre  (A.). 
640  square  acres  make  1  square  mile  (M.) 


Cubic  Measure,  used  in  Measuring:  "Wood,  etc. 


1728  cubic  inches  (cu.  in.)  make  1  cubic 
foot  (cu.  ft.). 

27  cubic  feet  make  1  cubic  yard  (cu.  yd.). 

40  feet  round,  or  50  feet  of  hewn  timber, 
make  1  ton  (T.). 


42  cubic  feet  make  1  ton  of  shipping  (T.). 

16  cubic  feet  make  1  cord  foot  of  shipping 
(cd.  ft). 

8  cord  feet,  or  128  .cubic  feet,  make  1  cord 
of  shipping  (c.) 


English  Money,  used  in  Eng-land  and  Canada. 

4  farthings  (far.)  make  1  penny  (d.).  I     20  shillings  make  1  pound  or  sovereign  (£). 

12  pence  make  1  shilling  (s.).  I     21  shillings  make  1  guinea. 


United  States  Money,  used  in  the  United  States. 


10  mills 
10  cents 
10  dimes 
10  dollars 
1  dollar 
V3    of  a  dollar 


make 


1  cent 

ct. 

V4 

of  a  dollar 

1  dime 

d. 

V. 

of  a  dollar 

1  dollar 

$ 

% 

of  a  dollar 

1  eagle 

E. 

VlO 

of  a  dollar 

100  cents 

$ 

Vi« 

of  a  dollar 

50  cents 

4/- 

Vso 

of  a  dollar 

33i  cents. 

Va 

of  a  cent 

25  cents 
20  cents. 
I2i  cents 
10  cents. 
6i  cents. 
5  cents. 
5  mills. 


2/- 
V- 


The  table  used  for  weighing  the  proportions  of  cakes  used  in  this  book  is  avoirdu- 
pois—16  ounces  to  the  pound. 
For  measuring  ale  or  beer,  measure  four  quarts  to  the  gallon. 


CONTENTS. 


PAET  I. 

ADVICE  TO  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS  AND  THEIR  HOUSEHOLD. 

CHAPTER  PAQB 

I.  Selecting  House  and  Furniture, 1 

II.  System  and  Management  of  Servants, 4 

III.  Economy  in  Cooking  well,  Cheerfulness,  etc.,       ...  7 

IT.  Washing,  Ironing,  Starching,  etc., 12 

V.  Directions  for  entertaining  Visitors,  etc.,    .        .        .        .24 

VI.  To  Husbands — Excuses  for  the  Mistakes  of  Housekeepers,  2*7 

VII.  Advice  to  Servants, 31 

VIII.  Carving, Zl 

PART  IX 

NUTRITION,  ELEMENTS  OF  FOOD,  ETC. 

I.  Nutrition, 43 

II.  Elements  of  Food, 4*7 

HI.  Marketing, .  51 

PART  in. 

GENERAL  COOKERY. 

I.  Soups,  Gravies,  and  Sauces,    .        .        .        •        ...  68 

II.  Fish, 74 

III.  Beef, 84 


X  CONTENTS. 

CHATT  PAGB 

IV.  Fork, 91 

V.  Venison,  Veal,  Lamb,  and  Mutton, 100 

VL    POULTRY  AND  GAME, 106 

VII.  Vegetables, 116 

VIII.  Puddings  and  Dinner  Desserts, 133 

IX.  Pastry  and  Pies, 153 

X.  Yeast,  Bread,  and  Biscuits,        ......       159 

XI.  Cakes, 169 

XII.  Confectioneries,  Creams,  etc., 190 

XIII.  Tea, 204 

XIV.  Coffee  and  Chocolate, 20*7 


PART  IV. 

BREAKFAST  DISHES,  COLD  DINNERS,  ETC. 

I.  Breakfast  Dishes, 212 

II.  Hashes, .217 

III.  To  Select  Eggs,  Preserve,  Cook,  etc.,     .....  219 

IV.  Economy  Dishes, 223 

V.  Cold  Dinners,  .  226 

PART  V. 

FRUIT  HERMETICALLY  SEALED,  PRESERVED,  DRIED,  COOKED,  ETC. 

I.  Apples, 229 

II.  Peaches, 236 

III.  Pears  and  Quinces, .        .  244 

IV.  Plums, 248 

V.  Cherries, 257 

VI.  Small  Fruits,       .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .       263 

PART  VI. 

WINES,  BRANDIES,  VINEGARS,  CORDIALS,  ETC. 

I.  Wines  and  Table  Beer, .        .  272 

II.  Fruit  Brandies, 278 


CONTENTS.  XI 

CnAPTEK  rA0B 

III.  Fruit  Vinegars, 281 

IV.  Cordials  and  Extracts, 283 


PART  VII. 

FLAVORED  VINEGARS,  TICKLES,  MANGOES. 

I.  Catslts,  .         .         ......         .         .  .286 

II.  Salads, 289 

III.  Flavored  Vinegars,          .         .         .                  .         .         .  •  292 

IV.  Pickles  and  Mangoes,          .        .        .        .        .        .        .  296 

PART  VIII. 

GARDENING  AND  INSECTS. 

I.  KiTcnEN  Garden; 306 

II.  Fruit  Garden, 319 

III.  Floavers, 329 

IV.  Hot-beds, .343 

V.  Insects  injurious  to  the  Garden,  and  troublesome  to  House- 
keepers,  349 

PART  IX. 

CURING  MEATS,  AND  DAIRY  WORK 

I.  Curing  Meats, 360 

II.  Milk,  Butter,  and  Cheese, 362 

PART  X. 
I.  Spring  Work  for  the  Housekeeper,         .        .        .        .  367 

PART  XI. 

SICK-ROOM,  REMEDIES,   INFANTS,  COOKING  FOR  INVALIDS. 

I.  Sick-room,  What  it  should  be,  etc., 371 

II.  Simple  Remedies, 374 


Xll  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER  PAGB 

III.  Care  of  Infants  from  Birth  to  Weaning,      .  .        .        .383 

IV.  Cooking  for  the  Invalid  and  Convalescent,       .  .        .391 

PART  XII. 
Miscellaneous, 398 

Index,     . .        .        421 


9*7 


a 


2  9 


2 

O 

2 

O 

c 

CO 

iO 

<» 

3C 

t^ 

52 

5    * 


— 

" 

to 

04 

CM 

CO 

* 

cm 

o 

o 

oo 

a1 

c^ 



■■„„. 

WALK  4uFEETWIDE 


Jo 

— 

CM 

j*        " 

CO      # 

* 

o 

U3 

«o 

CO 

t 

4  FOOT    WALK. 


Pw 


HOUSEKEEPER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIAe 


PART  I. 

ADVICE  TO  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS,  ETC. 


CHAPTER   I. 


HINTS  TO  YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPEKS,   IN  SELECTING  HOUSE  AND  . 
FUENITUEE. 

In  selecting  a  house  choose  one  not  only  "within  your  means,  but 
with  reference  to  the  number  of  persons  in  your  family. 

A  large,  empty  house  is  only  a  burden,  especially  when  good 
servants  are  scarce,  and  means  limited.  If  possible,  obtain  one  with 
a  good  hall,  the  principal  rooms  opening  from  it :  rooms  interfering 
with  others  are  a  great  annoyance  to  housekeepers,  as  it  is  impossible 
to  keep  a  room  tidy  when  used  as  a  thoroughfare  by  members  of  the 
family  without  frequent  use  of  broom  and  duster,  which  is  a  constant 
wear  on  carpet  and  patience.  The  dining-room  ought  either  to  open 
out  of  the  kitchen,  or  be  separated  by  a  hall ;  each  should  have  a 
closet  opening  from  them ;  and  the  kitchen  have  a  passage  to  the 
cellar,  and  an  outside  door.  The  parlor  is  the  most  pleasant  facing 
north,  and  should  be  independent  of  the  other  part  of  the  house. 
The  nursery  is  most  convenient  on  the  principal  floor.  Small  bed- 
rooms are  preferable  with  closets  to  large  ones  without.  Spring  and 
rain  water  should  be  near  the  kitchen.  Furniture  appears  well  in 
small,  that  would  hardly  be  called  respectable  in  large,  rooms. 


Furnish  your  house  with  uniformity;  nothing  looks  more  vulgar 
than  a  splendidly  furnished  parlor,  while  the  remainder  of  the  house 
is  hardly  decent. 

Decide  how  much  you  can  afford  to  spend  on  furniture ;  commence 
in  the  kitchen,  and  go  through  the  house,  making  a  list  of  all  neces- 
sary articles,  with  their  prices.  If,  after  this  is  done,  you  find  the 
sura  appropriated  not  expended,  select  the  superfluities,  being  careful 
not  to  crowd  the  parlors. 

Neckssaey  Hitches  Fuknituke. — Kange,  or  stove,  for  cooking; 
pot  and  kettle  with  covers ;  two  small  kettles  with  oval  bottoms;  tin 
boiler  with  steamer ;  tea  kettle  and  steeper ;  coffee  pot  and  mill ; 
dripping  pan  and  spider  ;  gridiron  and  meat  fork ;  preserving  kettle 
and  saucepan ;  griddle  and  pancake  turner ;  iron  ladle  and  spoons ; 
knives,  with  forks  strong  and  large ;  butcher  and  bread  knife ;  dip- 
pers, quart  and  pint,  colander  and  large  skimmer ;  waffle  irons  with 
rings;  butter  ladle  and  potato  pounder;  bread  board  and  rolling 
pins;  sieve,  cake  pans,  and  grater;  mixing  and  baking  pans,  for 
bread;  milk  pans  and  strainer;  milk  pail  and  small  skimmer;  pie 
plates  and  pudding  bakers ;  pepper  shaker  and  wooden  salt  dish ; 
flour  dredge  and  cooky  or  biscuit  cutter;  bowls  of  common  ware 
and  dishes ;  jars  for  soda,  cream  of  tartar,  and  spices ;  canisters,  or 
bottles,  for  tea  and  coffee ;  tin  box  for  bread,  and  one  for  cake ;  jugs 
for  molasses  and  vinegar  ;  spring  and  rain  water,  cleaning,  and  swill 
pail ; .  iron  ash  pail  and  firebox  ;  shovel,  tongs,  and  match  safe  ; 
kitchen  table  and  chairs ;  candlesticks  and  snuffers ;  broom,  dust  pan, 
and  scrubbing  brush ;  bottle  cleaner  and  stove  brush ;  boxes  with 
handles  for  sugar,  etc. ;  wash-boiler,  and  wash-tubs ;  clothes  line, 
washboard,  and  clothes  pins ;  flat  irons,  ironing  blanket  and  sheet ; 
skirt  and  bosom  board;  clothes  basket;  knife  and  spoon  basket; 
market  and  chip  basket ;  dish  pans  and  towels. 

With  these  necessary  articles,  the  writer  closes  the  list,  although 
there  are  many  conveniences  not  enumerated,  which  are  pleasant  to 
use. 

Dixing-Room. — Table  and  chairs  according  to  family;  tea  and 
dining  set,  full  or  not,  as  desired ;  knives  and  forks  for  dinner  and 
tea ;  tea  and  table  spoons ;  mats  and  waiter ;  carpet  or  oil-cloth  on 
the  floor ;  two  high  lamps,  or  candlesticks ;  small  side  table ;  table- 
cloths and  napkins ;  tea  and  coffee  pot  with  stands ;  covers  for  meats, 
of  wire ;  castor,  butter  knife,  and  carver ;  fly  broom,  pitchers,  and 
goblets. 

Hall. — Oil-cloth,  lamp,  and  hat-stand. 


HINTS    IN    SELECTING    HOUSE   AND    FURNITURE.  3 

Almost  all  prices  being  fixed  to  these  articles  according  to  their 
beauty  and  value,  the  purchasers  must  be  governed  by  their  means 
and  taste.    . 

Family  Bed -Room. — Bedstead,  with  furniture  and  crockery ;  bu- 
reau, washstand,  washbowl,  and  pitcher;  slop  jar,  soap  dish,  foot 
bath,  and  two  pint  mugs  ;  rocker,  and  other  chairs  ;  footstool,  stove, 
and  window  shades ;  looking-glass,  and  small  table ;  carpet,  broom, 
and  dust  brush. 

Parlor. — Carpet,  table,  chairs,  sofa,  lamp,  footstools,  shades. 

Library. — Book-case,  with  all  conveniences  for  writing ;  table, 
chairs,  and  oil-cloth  or  carpet. 

Spare  Chamber. — Bedstead  and  furniture ;  washstand  and  fur- 
niture ;  Foot  bath,  slop  jar,  teeth  mugs,  and  towel  rack ;  dressing 
bureau,  or  table  with  glass ;  small  stand,  stove,  chairs,  window- 
shades,  and  carpet. 

Bed-Rooms. — Carpet,  bedstead  and  furniture ;  washstand,  bowl, 
and  pitcher  ;  looking-glass,  small  table,  and  chairs  ;  window-shades. 

Servants'  Rooms. — Bedsteads,  chairs,  small  stand,  looking-glass. 

This  catalogue  will  enable  inexperienced  persons  to  make  the  list 
before  advised,  in  order  to  furnish  the  house  with  uniformity,  and  yet 
keep  within  the  sum  specified. 


CHAPTER   II. 

SYSTEM  AND  MANAGEMENT  OF  SERVANTS. 

Aim  to  be  as  systematic  as  possible  in  arranging  your  regular 
work ;  make  rules  most  convenient  for  your  family,  and  have  the 
servants  understand  they  are  to  be  obeyed.  Never  allow  yourself  to 
speak  in  a  fretful  manner  to  your  help,  as  by  so  doing  you  lose  your 
self-respect,  and  their  esteem.  When  any  fault  needs  correcting,  do 
it  in  kindness,  speaking  in  a  lady-like  manner.  Take  interest  in 
the  moral  welfare  of  your  help,  and  show  yourself  their  friend, 
and  a  servant  worth  keeping  will  fully  repay  your  kindness  by  faith- 
ful service.  "We  should  hear  less  complaints  of  servants  if  mis- 
tresses would  oftener  do  their  duty  to  those  under  them.  Servants 
that  will  not  be  influenced  by  kindness  can  never  be  trusted ;  make 
it  a  rule  to  dismiss  help  that  will  not  work  without  scolding  as  soon 
as  possible.     Not  only  is  it  necessary  to  point  out  delinquencies 


4  HOUSEKEEPER  S  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 

kindly,  but  every  improvement  should  be  as  constantly  noticed 
"  Sally,  your  floor  looks  nicely,"  goes  a  long  way  towards  another 
scrubbing.  When  any  article  is  broken,  unless  it  happened  through 
disobedience  to  some  order,  pass  it  lightly,  with  "  I  am  sorry  it  is 
broken,  try  to  be  more  careful  for  the  future ;  "  and  generally  it  will 
have  the  desired  effect.  Never  dismiss  help  in  anger,  they  will 
surely  give  you  a  bad  name.  Sometimes  servants  are  very  quick 
tempered  and  will  themselves  speak  improperly ;  leave  them  imme- 
diately, without  noticing  what  they  say,  and  they  will  soon  cool 
down,  and  often  ask  forgiveness.  If  they  do  not,  leave  it,  for  the 
present,  as  though  forgotten,  and  at  some  future  time,  when  all  things 
have  gone  well,  and  the  kitchen  unusually  pleasant,  bring  it  up,  and 
try  to  convince  her  of  her  fault,  and  say  decidedly,  "If  we  cannot  get 
along  pleasantly  we  must  part."  This  plan,  if  always  followed,  will 
be  found  to  work  well. 

Eemember  that  to  govern  a  family  well,  you  must  first  govern 
yourself;  live  up  to  this  rule  and  but  little  trouble  will  be  found 
in  managing  other  members  of  the  household. 

Order  and  system  is  of  more  importance  to  a  family  than  is  gener- 
ally supposed ;  many  a  man  is  driven  from  his  home  for  the  want  of 
this  alone,  and  in  no  place  is  the  comfort  of  a  family  more  affected  by 
the  want  of  it  than  at  the  table.  Aim  to  prepare  the  meals  at  regular 
hours,  and  what  you  have  well  cooked ;  let  the  tablecloth  be  always 
white,  clean,  and  well  ironed ;  the  napkins  in  their  rings  in  proper 
order ;  place  the  platter,  or  dish  with  meat,  directly  before  the  person 
who  carves,  with  the  potatoes  always  on  the  right  of  the  meat ;  if 
two  other  vegetables,  put  one  on  the  left,  and  two  on  the  right ;  the 
gravy  tureen  on  the  left,  near  the  carver,  with  the  spoon  towards 
him.  When  tea  or  coffee  is  served  at  the  table,  place  the  tray  oppo- 
site the  carver.  The  tray  should  contain  cups,  saucers,  sugar,  cream, 
spoons  in  a  holder,  slop  bowl,  one  plate,  knife,  fork,  and  napkin. 
Near  the  middle  of  the  table  place  the  castor,  the  butter  one  side  of 
it,  and  the  pickles  or  some  other  relish  to  balance  the  table  on  the 
other.  The  bread  should  be  on  a  corner,  generally  on  the  right  hand 
from  the  carver,  and  crackers  on  the  left ;  carving  knife  and  fork 
should  be  just  before  the  carver,  the  steel  lying  with  the  handle 
towards  him,  on  his  left.  Table-spoons  should  be  laid  within  his 
reach.  The  plates,  during  fly  season,  should  be  turned  bottom  side 
up,  the  knife  above  the  plate,  the  handle  towards  the  host,  if  at  his 
left,  and  hostess,  if  at  her  right,  the  fork  on  the  left,  with  the  handle 
towards  the  edge  of  the  table,  the  napkin  in  the  same  position  on  the 


SYSTEM    AND    MANAGEMENT    OF    SERVANTS.  5 

right  as  the  fork  occupies  on  the  left.  Spoons  at  the  right.  Small 
or  individual  salts  towards  the  centre  of  the  table,  near  the  plate, 
but  far  enough  from  it  to  avoid  being  displaced  by  moving  the  knife. 
Goblets  on  the  right,  a  little  mid-way  from  the  next  plate,  that  the 
water  may  be  poured  with  ease  by  the  waiter ;  some  prefer  filling 
the  glasses  on  a  side  table,  but  the  more  glass  on  the  table  the  better 
it  looks.  If  extra  relishes  are  to  be  served,  the  lady  of  the  house,  if 
not  before  the  tray,  if  so,  a  servant,  or  any  person  at  the  table,  if  no 
servant  waits,  should  dish  them — the  carver  never ;  he  has  sufficient 
business  before  him. 

If  not  absolutely  necessary,  no  person  should  leave  the  table  to 
supply  deficiencies,  or  replenish  dishes  ;  a  bell  should  be  used, 
instead  of  calling  a  servant  by  name,  when  she  is  needed  to  wait 
upon  the  table.  When  there  is  no  servant  in  the  family,  arrange  all 
articles  for  the  dessert  on  the  side  table  near  by,  that  the  table  can 
be  cleared  and  the  dessert  brought  on  without  confusion.  When 
a  servant  waits  on  the  table  properly,  she  first  removes  the  meats 
and  vegetables,  then  the  plates,  knives,  forks,  and  extra  dishes ;  after 
this  the  butter,  castor,  pickles,  salt,  and  bread,  unless  wanted.  She 
then  removes  the  crumbs,  taking  a  plate  in  her  left  hand,  and  brush 
in  her  right.  After  this  the  plates  on  which  the  dessert  is  to  be 
served  is  set  on  the  left  of  the  lady  of  the  house,  unless  she  is  seated 
before  the  waiter,  in  that  case,  before  the  carver  or  eldest  daughter, 
in  the  same  position ;  the  knives  and  forks,  or  spoons,  are  to  be 
placed  on  the  right,  and  the  dessert  in  the  place  occupied  by  the 
dining  plate,  though  not  quite  as  near  the  edge  of  the  table.  The 
lady  of  the  house  should  be  the  last  one  waited  on.  For  serving  tea 
and  coffee,  see  Tea  and  Coffee. 

This  manner  of  setting  the  table,  with  slight  variation,  is  proper 
for  breakfast  and  dinner. 

For  tea,  the  knife  and  fork  should  both  be  placed  on  the  right 
hand,  with  the  handle  towards  the  edge  of  the  table.  The  waiter 
should  occupy  the  same  place  as  at  dinner  or  breakfast.  The  cake 
the  place  of  the  castor,  about  four  inches  from  the  waiter,  butter  on 
the  left,  cheese  or  other  relish  on  the  right.  The  sweetmeats  where 
the  meat  is  placed  at  dinner,  sauce  dishes  on  the  left,  spoons  on  the 
right.  Table-spoons  near.  The  bread  or  biscuit  on  the  right,  mid- 
way between  the  cheese  and  sauce  plates,  crackers  to  match  on  the 
left.  Bread  should  first  be  passed,  then  butter,  after  which  the  sauee. 
When  two  kinds  of  cake  are  on  the  table,  on  separate  plates,  pass  the 
plainest  first ;  the  same  rule  applies  to  sweetmeats. 


G  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Make  as  much  variety  as  possible  with  your  means ;  plain  food  can 
be  cooked  in  many  different  ways ;  take  potatoes  for  instance,  they 
can  be  baked,  boiled,  fried,  mashed,  browned  in  balls,  broiled,  heated 
in  cream,  etc. 

Directions  in  regard  to  Chambers. — Have  the  beds  well  aired, 
the  furniture  well  washed,  never  turn  down,  or  leave  covers  on  cham- 
ber ware.  If  possible,  this  part  of  the  work  should  be  done  early  in 
the  morning,  the  chamber  pail  should  be  always  rinsed,  and  left  in 
the  air.     Pails  japanned  never  smell  or  rust. 

General  Directions. — If  you  wash  Monday,  bake  Tuesday,  iron 
"Wednesday,  clean  Thursday,  mend  Friday,  and  bake  Saturday.  Of 
course  you  will  be  somewhat  governed  by  the  peculiar  situation  of 
the  family ;  but  it  will  be  found  to  be  a  good  plan  to  have  a  regular 
routine  for  each  day.  If  you  keep  but  one  servant,  it  will  be  found 
more  convenient  to  wash  Tuesday,  putting  the  clothes  in  soak  Monday. 
There  can  then  be  a  nice  cold  dinner  prepared  for  washing  day,  and 
the  same  can  be  arranged  for  ironing  day.  Special  directions  for  cold 
dinners  are  given  in  another  part  of  the  book. 

Directions  for  washing  Dishes  and  cleaning  Silver,  etc. — 
Always  have  two  pans  of  clean,  soft  water,  one  with  a  little  soap  dis- 
solved in  it,  and  a  nice  dish  cloth  ;  wash  all  the  glass  first,  and  wipe 
them  from  the  clear  water  while  hot,  lay  tumblers  on  the  side,  partly 
filled,  and  hot  water  will  not  crack  them.  The  silver  should  be  next 
washed,  and  rinsed  as  the  glass,  rubbing  it  when  dry  with  wash 
leather;  if  any  articles  are  spotted,  rub  with  whiting,  never  put 
away  discolored  silver.  The  cups,  and  all  dishes  free  from  grease, 
should  now  be  washed,  rinsed,  and  turned  down  to  drain ;  after  this 
wash  the  platters,  etc.  Wipe  the  first  put  to  drain  while  the  last  are 
draining.  Wash  all  tins  next  that  are  free  from  milk,  rinse  well, 
wipe,  and  stand  them  near  the  fire  until  perfectly  dry.  Wash  the  dish 
cloth,  rinse,  and  hang  it  to  dry.  Get  the  pot  cloth,  wash  all  the 
kettles,  inside  and  out,  rinse  and  dry  them  perfectly.  Wash  the  pot 
cloth,  and  put  it  to  dry.  Get  the  stove  cloth,  wash  the  stove  in  the 
suds,  cleanse  the  cloth  and  hang  it  to  dry.  If  you  keep  a  cow,  always 
fill  the  milk  pail  with  cold  water,  as  soon  as  the  milk  is  strained, 
leaving  in  the  strainer ;  a  separate  cloth  should  be  used  for  wash- 
ing the  milk  pail  and  pans ;  after  they  are  perfectly  free  from  milk, 
wash  them  in  suds,  scald  in  boiling  water ;  and  dry  perfectly  by 
the  fire,  or  in  the  hot  sun.    Scald  the  milk  cloth,  and  hang  it  to  dry. 


SYSTEM    AND    MANAGEMENT    OF    SERVANTS.  * 

Knives  should  be  scoured  every  time  they  are  used,  and  thoroughly 
dried ;  the  handles  must  never  be  dipped  in  hot  water,  a  fine  sand- 
paper will  remove  spots  from  ivory  or  bone  handles.  If  knives  are 
wrapped  in  chamois  leather  they  will  never  rust,  unless  put  away  damp. 

Every  member  of  the  family  should  have  a  bag  for  soiled  clothes ; 
where  there  are  closets  in  the  bed-rooms  it  is  well  to  fasten  them  on 
the  inside  of  the  closet  doors ;  take  one  yard  and  a  quarter  of  dark 
drilling,  fold  it  so  as  to  make  a  bag  a  half -yard  deep,  with  the  quarter 
projecting  beyond,  bind  it  all  around  with  strong  colored  tape,  make 
loops  in  the  corners  to  hang  up  by,  and- put  them  on  the  door  with 
carpet  tacks.  Bags  are  more  convenient  for  patches,  etc.,  than  boxes, 
they  take  up  less  room,  and  will  last,  when  made  of  good  material,  a 
lifetime.  A  good  method  is  to  have  a  bag  for  each  variety  of  patch, 
cotton,  woollen,  silk,  etc.,  and  sew  a  square  patch  on  each  bag,  to 
show  what  they  contain  ;  for  instance,  on  the  calico  patch  bag  sew  a 
square  of  print,  on  the  silk,  a  silk  patch,  etc. ;  we  find  this  the  most 
convenient  method  of  designating  them,  as  we  often  have  help  who 
cannot  read  sufficient  English  to  bring  a  bag  with  the  contents 
written  or  printed  on  it. 

A  bag  made  in  the  form  of  the  old-fashioned  needle-books,  with 
pockets  just  deep  enough  to  hold  shoes,  and  one  in  the  same  form  for 
combs  and  brushes,  will  be  found  convenient.  A  paper  bag  should 
hang  in  the  kitchen,  containing  refuse  paper  for  covering  cake,  etc., 
when  baking.  One  with  bits  of  woollen  and  cotton  for  holders  and 
iron  wipers ;  and  one  to  contain  the  bits  of  twine  which  come  around 
bundles. 

We  ourselves  would  not  know  how  to  keep  house  without  these 
bags.  Every  spring  they  are  assorted,  and  all  superfluous  patches  put 
with  carpet  or  paper  rags,  which  keeps  them  in  good  order  the  year 
round,  and  saves  much  needless  trouble  in  hunting  patches,  buttons, 
etc.,  from  among  quantities  of  rubbish. 


CHAPTER   III. 

ECONOMY  IN  COOKING  WELL,  ETC. 

Economy  in  cooking  does  not  consist  in  the  use  of  very  little  of 
what  are  called  the  necessaries,  but  rather  in  always  getting  up,  even 
the  most  common  dishes,  in  such  a  manner,  as  not  only  to  relish,  but 


8  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

also  to  present,  at  table,  a  good  appearance.  Some  housekeepers  who 
have  come  within  the  range  of  the  writer's  observation,  appear,  in  a 
remarkable  degree,  to  possess  this  faculty.  A  poor  meal  is  never 
seen  on  their  table,  or  ever  a  time  known  when  friends  happening  in 
at  meal  time  put  them  out  of  sorts.  The  plainly  furnished  table  is 
always  neat,  the  cloth  white,  and  carefully  spread,  the  knives  and 
forks  bright  as  brick-dust  can  make  them,  and  the  silver  looking  its 
very  best ;  while  the  clean  floor,  well-dusted  furniture,  cheerful  fire 
in  winter,  or  pleasant  breeze  and  vases  of  flowers  in  summer,  won- 
derfully assist  the  appetite,  and  add  greatly  to  the  enjoyment  of  the 
plain  but  excellent  fare.  Cheerful  faces,  too,,  add  to  table  enjoyment 
more  than  is  generally  supposed.  What  husband  and  father,  coming 
from  the  drudgery  of  business,  would  not  rather  find,  at  the  head  of 
his  table  a  cheerful,  happy-looking  wife,  neatly  dressed,  and  pleasant 
children,  with  a  plain,  well  cooked,  but  simple  dinner,  than  be  seated 
at  a  sumptuous  feast  spread  on  an  untidy  table ;  the  room  in  confu- 
sion, and  every  thing  betokening  ill-humor ;  the  wife  heated,  full  of 
complaints  of  the  fatigue  of  cooking ;  the  children's  faces  and  hair  in 
any  thing  but  tidy  order,  reflecting,  as  children  generally  will,  the 
unhappy  state  of  their  mother.  It  will  indeed  be  a  wonder  if  one 
or  two  are  not  sent  from  the  table,  or  punished  in  some  other  man- 
ner, before  the  meal  is  over. 

No  matter  with  how  much  care  the  meal  has  been  prepared,  every 
article  on  the  table  may  be  perfect  in  itself,  and  perfectly  cooked,  and 
the  only  motive  in  getting  it  up  may  have  been  to  give  pleasure  to 
the  family,  still,  after  all,  we  find  the  principal  relish  wanting ;  the 
only  seasoning  which  gives  enjoyment  to  viands,  however  costly,  ab- 
sent; the  outlay  worse  than  wasted,  and  the  fatigue  endured  for 
naught.  Many  housekeepers  fail  here  in  making  their  table  attrac- 
tive, but  do  not  realize  the  cause.  No  doubt  often  there  are  little 
trials,  known  only  to  themselves,  which  cloud  the  brow,  but  they 
should  always  make  it  the  rule  never  to  let  such  troubles  be  the  cause 
of  ill-humor  in  the  family,  especially  at  meal  time.  When  the  dress 
is  changed  for  dinner,  let  it  be  the  rule  to  clear  the  brow  from  all  its 
clouds.  If  necessary,  put  on  a  cheerful  air,  and  soon  the  spirit  itself 
will  pervade  the  soul,  repaying  fully  the  effort  to  subdue  the  evil  by 
filling  the  bosom  with  joy  and  peace,  and  the  next  effort  will  be 
found  much  more  easy.  Perhaps  this  may  be  called  digression,  but 
the  writer  thinks  not;  her  object  is  to  benefit  the  young,  whose  habits 
as  housekeepers  are  not  fixed,  but  who  have  an  idea  of  making  home 
pleasant,  they  hardly  know  how,  unless  by  cooking  fine  meals,  etc. 


ECONOMY    IN    COOKING    WELL,    ETC.  9 

She  wishes  housekeepers  with  limited  means  to  understand  the  econ- 
omy of  cheerfulness,  it  will  cover  the  many  defects  of  cooking,  or  mis- 
takes of  judgment,  to  which  the  young  housekeeper  is  daily  exposed  ; 
and  we  think,  too,  a  cheerful-tempered  lady  will,  in  the  end,  make  a 
more  finished  housekeeper  than  one  who  habitually  gives  way  to  gloom. 
Hope  is  every  thing  in  the  family,  and  no  member  needs  it  more  than 
the  wife  and  mother.  Be  particularly  mindful  to  cultivate  this  habit 
of  mind  if  you  find  your  husband  inclining  to  despondency.  Wives, 
even  by  silent  influence,  often  uphold  a  sinking  husband ;  many  times 
all  a  man  wants  is  courage,  and  a  hopeful  wife  can  impart  all  that  he 
needs.  Our  sphere  is  large,  no  one  can  say  how  large  ;  let  us  fill  it  in 
view  of  the  future,  with  pure  motives,  not,  like  too  many  of  our  sex, 
think  only  of  our  ease,  without  regard  to  consequences.  Be  careful 
that  every  bit  left  is  put  to  the  best  advantage  ;  many  times  have  we 
seen  sufficient  bread  in  the  swill-pail  to  give  a  small  family  a  meal. 
"  Wilful  waste  makes  woful  want.1'  Not  that,  under  any  circum- 
stances, we  would  advise  the  use  of  unhealthy  food,  such  as  sour 
bread  or  biscuit.  When  this  accident  occurs,  which  ought  not  to 
be  oftener  than  once  to  any  housekeeper,  and  for  which  there  is  no 
excuse,  throw  it  away ;  better  by  far  bake  again  than  allow  a  family 
to  eat  sour  bread.  One  of  the  rules  given  to  servants  should  be, 
that  if  the  bread  is  sour  another  baking  must  take  its  place  imme- 
diately. We  have  found  this  to  work  well.  Servants  don't  like  to 
do  work  twice  when  a  little  care  will  save  them  the  trouble.  Dry 
and  heavy  bread  can  be  used.  {See  Directions  for  using  Dry 
Bread.)  Much  waste  is  also  experienced  in  the  boiling,  etc.,  of  meats. 
Unless  watched,  the  cook  will  throw  out  the  water  without  letting 
it  cool  to  take  off  the  fat,  or  scrape  the  dripping  pan  into  the  swill- 
pail.  This  grease  is  useful  in  many  ways.  It  can  be  burned  in  lamps 
mixed  with  lard ;  or,  when  no  pork  has  been  boiled  with  it,  made 
into  candles.  When  pork  is  boiled  alone  it  will  do  to  fry  cakes,  if 
cleansed.  {See  Cleansing  Grease.)  Again,  bits  of  meat  are  thrown 
out  which  would  make  good  hashed  meat,  or  hash.  {See  Hashes.) 
The  flour  is  sifted  in  a  wasteful  manner,  or  the  bread  pan  left  with 
dough  sticking  to  it.  Pie  crust  is  left  and  laid  by  to  sour,  instead  of 
making  a  few  tarts  for  tea,  etc.  Cake  batter  is  thrown  out  because 
but  little  is  left.  Cold  puddings  are  considered  good  for  nothing, 
when  often  they  can  be  steamed  for  the  next  day,  or,  as  in  case  of 
rice,  made  over  in  other  forms.  Vegetables  are  thrown  away  that 
would  warm  for  breakfast  nicely.  Dish  towels  are  thrown  down 
wrhere  mice  can  destroy  them.  Soap  is  left  in  water  to  dissolve,  or 
1* 


10  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

more  used  than  is  necessary.  If  Bath  brick  is  used,  whiting,  rotten 
stone,  etc.,  much  is  wasted  uselessly.  The  scrub  brush  is  left  in 
water,  pails  scorched  by  the  stove,  tubs  and  barrels  left  in  the  sun  to 
dry  and  fall  apart,  chamber  pails  allowed  to  rust,  tins  not  dried,  and 
iron- ware  rusted ;  nice  knives  used  for  cooking  in  the  kitchen,  silver 
spoons  are  used  to  scrape  kettles,  or  forks  to  toast  bread.  Rinsings 
from  sweetmeats,  and  skimmings  of  syrup,  which  make  good  vinegar, 
are  thrown  out ;  cream  is  allowed  to  mould,  and  spoil ;  mustard  to 
dry  in  the  pot,  and  vinegar  to  corrode  the  castor;  tea,  roasted 
coffee,  pepper,  and  spices,  to  stand  open  and  lose  their  strength. 
The  molasses  jug  loses  the  cork,  and  the  flies  take  possession.  Sweet- 
meats are  opened  and  forgotten.  Vinegar  is  drawn  in  a  basin,  and 
allowed  to  stand,  until  both  basin  and  vinegar  are  spoiled.  Sugar  is 
spilled  from  the  barrel,  coffee  from  the  sack,  and  tea  from  the  chest. 
Different  sauces  are  made  too  sweet,  and  both  sauce  and  sugar 
wasted.  Dried  fruit  has  not  been  taken  care  of  in  season,  and  be- 
comes wormy.  The  vinegar  on  pickles  loses  strength,  or  leaks  out, 
and  the  pickles  become  soft.  Potatoes  in  the  cellar  grow,  and  the 
sprouts  are  not  removed  until  they  become  worthless.  Apples  decay 
for  want  of  looking  over.  Pork  spoils  for  want  of  salt,  and  beef  be- 
cause the  brine  wants  scalding.  Hams  become  tainted,  or  filled  with 
vermin,  for  want  of  the  right  protection.  {See  Hams.)  Dried  beef 
becomes  so  hard  it  can't  be  cut.  Cheese  moulds,  and  is  eaten 
by  mice  or  vermin.  Lard  is  not  well  tried  in  the  fall,  and  be- 
comes tainted.  Butter  spoils  for  want  of  being  well  made  at  first. 
Bones  are  burned  that  will  make  soup.  Ashes  are  thrown  out  care- 
lessly, endangering  the  premises,  and  wasting  them.  Servants  leave 
a  light,  and  fire  burning  in  the  kitchen,  when  they  are  out  all  the 
evening.  Clothes  are  whipped  to  pieces  in  the  wind ;  fine  cambrics 
rubbed  on  the  board,  and  laces  torn  in  starching.  Brooms  are  never 
hung  up,  and  soon  are  spoiled.  Carpets  are  swept  with  stubs,  hardly 
fit  to  scrub  the  kitchen,  and  good  new  brooms  used  for  scrubbing. 
Towels  are  used  in  place  of  holders,  and  good  sheets  to  iron  on, 
taking  a  fresh  one  every  week,  thus  scorching  at  last  nearly  all  in  the 
house.  Fluid  if  used  is  left  uncorked,  endangering  the  house,  and 
wasting  the  alcohol.  Caps  are  left  from  the  lamps,  rendering  tjie 
fluid  worthless  by  evaporation.  Table  linen  is  thrown  carelessly 
down,  and  is  eaten  by  mice,  or  put  away  damp  and  is  mildewed ;  or 
the  fruit  stains  are  forgotten,  and  the  stains  washed  in.  {See  Removing 
Fkuit  Stains.)  Tablecloths  and  napkins,  used  as  dish  wipers ;  mats 
forgotten  to  be  put  under  hot  dishes  ;  teapots  melted  by  the  stove ; 


ECONOMY    IN    COOKING    WELL,    ETC.  11 

water  forgotten  in  pitchers,  and  allowed  to  freeze  in  winter ;  slops 
for  cow  and  pigs  never  saved ;  china  used  to  feed  cats  and  dogs  on ; 
and  in  many  other  ways,  a  careless  or  inexperienced  housekeeper  will 
waste,  without  heeding,  the  hard-earned  wages  of  her  husband  ;  when 
she  really  thinks,  because  she  buys  no  fine  clothes,  makes  the  old  ones 
last,  and  cooks  plainly,  she  is  a  most  superior  housekeeper.  The  old 
saying  of  our  grandmothers  is  only  too  true,  which  says,  "  A  woman 
can  throw  out  Avith  a  spoon,  faster  than  a  man  can  throw  in  with  a 
shovel." 

I  am  thus  particular,  in  noting  the  little  things,  in  which  house- 
keepers fail,  because  I  know,  from  my  own  early  experience,  how 
necessary  it  is  to  know  and  feel  the  importance  of  economy  in  small 
matters.  It  is  seldom  that  a  lady  can  assist  in  any  other  manner,  in 
lightening  the  load  of  her  husband,  and,  indeed,  this  should  not  be 
neglected,  let  her  talents  be  what  they  may.  The  first  duty  of  a  wife 
is  to  make  the  home  pleasant ;  if  this  can  be  done,  and  other  labor 
accomplished,  all  is  well ;  but  that  is  an  absolute  necessity,  never  to 
be  thought  lightly  of,  or  classed  among  the  secondary  duties  of  woman  : 
"  a  word  to  the  wise  is  sufficient."  The  duties  of  woman  are  every- 
day duties ;  we  cannot  let  go  awhile  and  pick  up  where  we  left  off; 
it  is  like  a  stich,  dropped  in  intricate  knitting,  it  goes  down  and  down, 
until  the  whole  work  is  spoiled.  Sometimes  ladies  go  into  the  kitchen 
ill  prepared,  in  dress,  for  the  work  to  be  done ;  it  certainly  is  better 
economy,  to  buy  common  dresses  for  such  purposes,  than  to  spoil  one 
that  would  buy  a  dozen  such.  Large  aprons,  with  sleeves,  will  be 
found  convenient  to  put  on  for  a  few  moments,  when  company  is  in 
the  parlor,  to  assist  in  taking  up  tea.  A  novice  in  kitchen  work  will 
soil  her  clothes  more  in  a  half-hour,  than  an  adept  in  a  week.  Rings 
with  stones  must  always  be  removed  before  putting  hands  in  dough. 
This  may  seem  superfluous  advice,  but  the  writer  well  remembers 
seeing,  many  years  since,  dough  in  the  ring  of  a  young  housekeeper. 
When  a  lady  first  becomes  a  housekeeper,  she  is  very  anxious  to  do 
her  best.  She  asks  of  this  and  that  friend  the  advice  she  needs.  Some 
are  good  advisers,  and  some  not ;  and  thus  often  mistakes  occur.  It 
is  well  to  keep  a  record  of  all  the  mistakes  }rou  make,  they  will  be 
less  apt  to  happen  again.  "When  you  make  a  good  batch  of  bread,  etc., 
write  immediately  in  your  journal  the  whole  process ;  it  will  enable 
you  to  do  the  same  again.  Memory  is  not  a  safe  guide  for  house- 
keepers, more  than  others ;  it  often  fails,  and  this  is  one  reason  why 
there  is  such  a  difference  in  the  every-day  cooking  in  a  family.  If 
you  possess  a  cook  book,  mark  every  receipt  you  try ;  those  you  like 


12  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

with  one,  and  those  which  do  not  suit  with  another  mark.  Always,  in 
trying  receipts,  be  attentive  to  copy  the  rule  not  only,  but  the  direc- 
tions. There  is  as  much  in  putting  cakes  together  as  in  getting  the 
proportions.  Many  do  not  consider,  that  the  cake  must  be  baked 
as  directed,  to  insure  success ;  but  that  this  is  highly  important  ex- 
perienced housekeepers  are  well  aware,  and  a  stove  with  a  poor 
oven  is  pronounced  a  worthless  appendage  to  the  kitchen. 


CHAPTER    IV. 

WASHING,  STARCHING,  IRONING,  AND  FOLDING  LINEN. 

If  you  wash  Monday,  put  the  clothes  to  soak' in  strong  suds  Satur- 
day evening,  the  fine  and  coarse  in  separate  tubs.  If  the  washing  is 
done  Tuesday,  soak  them  from  Monday  night,  as  in  warm  weather 
the  suds  would  sour,  standing  from  Saturday  until  Tuesday.  The 
table  and  bed  linen  should  be  by  themselves  ;  change  the  beds  Satur- 
day morning,  so  as  to  have  the  sheets  soak.  On  Monday,  prepare  a 
boiler  of  rain  water  in  the  following  manner :  to  every  pail  of  water, 
take  a  small  table-spoonful  of  sal  soda  pounded  fine,  enough  hard  soap 
to  make  a  suds,  and  to  five  pails  of  water  a  table-spoonful  of  spirits  of 
turpentine ;  wring  out  all  the  table  and  bed  linen,  and  boil  them  with- 
out rubbing,  a  good  half-hour  hard,  frequently  pushing  them  down 
with  the  clothes  stick.  Then  take  them  out,  and  rinse  in  three  tubs 
of  rain  water,  blue  in  the  last.  If  in  time  of  fruit,  the  table  linen 
should  be  examined  before  wetting,  and  boiling  water  poured  through 
each  stain,  after  which  they  can  be  put  in  the  suds ;  this  generally 
removes  fruit  stains.  While  the  first  boiler  is  on  the  fire,  the  fine 
clothes  should  be  looked  over,  the  wristbands,  bosoms  of  shirts,  and 
all  articles  that  are  soiled  by  contact  with  the  skin  or  ground,  be 
rubbed  through  one  suds,  when  the  first  clothes  are  taken  from  the 
boiler ;  cool  the  water,  adding  a  little  soda,  and  boil  the  fine  clothes, 
and  afterwards,  in  the  same  manner,  the  coarse,  and  lastly,  the  brown 
towels.  Fine  linen  embroideries,  or  cambrics,  should  never  be  rubbed 
on  the  washboard,  and  be  always  boiled  in  bags.  Do  not  let  clothes 
remain  on  the  line  after  they  are  dry :  the  wind  whips  the  hems,  and 
wears  -more  in  an  hour,  than  good  use  would  in  a  month's  time. 
This  has  been  the  manner  of  washing  for  the  most  part  for  ten  years 
in  the  writer's  family,  and  we  are  satisfied,  from  experience,  that  it 


WASHING,    STARCHING,    IRONING,    AND    FOLDING    LINEN.  13 

saves  clothes,  labor,  time,  and  soap.  One  half  the  soap  can  be  saved, 
if  well  managed,  that  is  ordinarily  used  in  washing.  Notice  that 
clothes  should  never  be  washed  in  hot  water ;  blood  heat  is  sufficient 
to  remove  all  soil. 

Starching  Shirts  and  Collars. — Allow  one  teaspoonful  of  good 
starch  to  each  shirt  and  collar,  take  just  enough  cold  water  to  wet  the 
starch,  mash  it  free  from  lumps,  add  a  little  more,  and  stir  it  well ;  add, 
for  each  shirt,  a  piece  of  sperm  or  white  wax,  as  large  as  a  dry  pea,  and 
a  quarter  of  a  spoonful  of  clean  salt  to  three  of  starch,  pour  on  boil- 
ing water,  slowly  stirring  all  the  time,  let  it  boil  hard  fifteen  minutes 
without  scorching,  skim  and  strain  it  while  hot ;  this  can  be  done 
only  by  dipping  the  strainer  in  cold  water,  while  the  starch  is  in  the 
bag,  and  squeezing  it  immediately  before  it  becomes  hot.  It  is  im- 
possible to  give  a  rule  for  the  quantity  of  water  to  the  spoonful  of 
starch,  as  there  is  such  a  diversity  of  taste,  in  regard  to  the  stiffness 
of  bosoms  and  collars.  Wet  the  bosoms  and  collars  in  hot  water, 
wring  them  very  dry,  and  starch  while  wet ;  rub  them  well,  that  the 
starch  may  penetrate,  and  wring  them'  in  a  dry  towel,  to  remove  all 
the  starch  left  on  the  outside ;  spread  them  out  evenly,  rub  them 
down  with  a  dry  cloth  and  roll  them  tightly,  let  them  lay  two  or 
three  hours,  and  then  iron  them. 

Folding  and  Ironing. — Fold  all  clothing,  so  that  when  ironed, 
they  will  open  on  the  right  side.  Pillow-cases,  napkins,  and  towels, 
should  be  folded  width-wise,  first  in  the  middle,  then  back  -and 
forth,  to  make  three  distinct  folds,  and  in  the  same  manner  length- 
wise. The  ironing  should  be  finished  as  soon  as  possible  after  the 
clothes  have  lain  three  hours  folded,  as  they  soon  become  sour.  In 
winter  they  can  lie  longer,  even  over-night,  but  in  hot  weather  it 
is  not  safe  to  trust  them,  though  it  is  often  done.  Examine  the 
clothes-basket  to  be  sure  that  every  article  is  finished  up,  and  not  left 
damp  to  mildew,  even  to  old  cotton ;  if  worth  washing  it  is  worth 
ironing.  Fold  the  linen  handsomely,  hang  it  evenly  on  the  bars,  and 
let  it  remain  until  bone-dry.  In  folding  the  clothes,  select  such  as 
need  repairing,  and  lay  them  in  the  basket,  or  drawer  appropriated 
to  such  articles,  until  mending  day,  when  it  should  all  be  finished, 
and  put  in  place ;  pile  the  sheets  by  themselves,  also  pillow-cases, 
towels,  napkins,  etc.,  so  that,  in  getting  one  article,  the  whole  drawer 
may  not  be  disturbed.  Fold  shirts,  so  that  the  bosoms  will  be  folded 
in,  without  bending  ;  collars  should  be  kept  in  round  boxes.  Ladies' 
under-clothing  should  be  folded  with  the  sleeves  and  necks  on  the 


14  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

outside.  Skirts  should  be  ironed  on  a  board,  without  folding ;  these 
should  be  about  as  stiff  as  new  cotton ;  iron  stockings  flat,  with  no 
fold  on  the  instep.  Embroideries  must  be  laid  on  thick  flannel  and 
pressed  on  the  wrong  side ;  also  dotted  muslins,  laces,  curtains,  bed- 
spreads, and  very  fine  cambric  handkerchiefs.  A  cassimere  vest  is 
about  as  difficult  an  article  to  iron  as  there  is  of  gentlemen's  wear. 
The  padding  should  be  removed  before  it  is  wet ;  it  must  be  starched, 
and  dried  thoroughly,  the  right  side  hanging  inside ;  a  speck  of  dust 
would  make  it  necessary  to  wash  it  over.  When  quite  dry,  sprinkle 
it,  and  pull  it  in  shape  as  much  as  possible,  and  roll  it  up  true.  It 
can  be  ironed  best  on  a  bosom-board  such  as  described  below.  The 
irons  should  be  hot,  but  not  scorching ;  iron  first  the  back  lining  and 
pockets,  lay  on  the  outside  a  damp  cloth,  unless  the  vest  is  sufficiently 
damp  ;  if  so,  a  dry  one,  and  press  it  with  a  heavy  iron ;  the  pockets 
should  not  be  turned  in,  until  the  vest  is  finished ;  be  careful  not  to 
misshape  the  collar,  and  do  not  bend  it  in  the  least ;  gentlemen  pre- 
fer shaping  their  own  vests. 

To  Iron  Shirts  well,  a  bosom-board  is  essential.  It  should  be  made 
in  the  following  manner :  The  board  ought  to  be  well-seasoned  pine 
free  from  gum ;  it  should  be  one  and  a  half  inches  thick,  one  foot 
nine  inches  long,  and  eighteen  inches  wide;  very  smooth,  and 
straight,  rounded  on  one  end,  and  cut  smooth  leaving  no  edge ;  the 
square  end  should  be  smooth,  with  a  hole  in  the  middle  near  the  edge, 
large  enough  to  let  through  a  strong  spike,  or  nail,  to  hang  it  by ; 
cover  the  board  on  one  side  with  flannel,  until  it  is  as  thick  as  a  com- 
mon cotton  comfortable,  tacking  each  layer  to  the  edge  so  as  to  draw 
it  tightly  over  the  board ;  the  last  two  layers  should  be  Canton  flannel. 
The  other  side  cover  with  thick  flour  paste,  and  cover  it  with  Canton 
flannel ;  after  it  is  perfectly  dry,  paste  on  another  layer,  and  so  on  until 
four  layers  are  pasted  smoothly  to  the  board.  Make  cotton  cases,  to 
slip  the  board  in,  and  change  them  every  week.  The  soft  side  is  for 
embroidery  ironing,  Marseilles  vests,  and  other  figured  articles ;  and 
the  hard  side  is  to  be  used  in  giving  a  polish  to  shirts  and  collars. 
A  clean  ironing  sheet  should  be  spread  on  the  table  before  ironing 
the  starched  articles ;  iron  first  the  neck  binding,  after  that  the  back 
folded  in  the  middle,  then  the  sleeves,  and  remainder  of  the  body, 
the  collar,  if  on  the  shirt,  and  lastly,  the  bosom.  If  desired  to  have 
the  collar  and  bosoms  polished,  turn  the  board,  which  should  have 
been  placed  the  soft  side  up,  under  the  bosom  on  the  hard  side,  pass 
the  bosom  over  lightly  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  iron  it  hard  and 


WASHING,    STARCHING,    IRONING,    AND    FOLDING    LINEN.  15 

quickly  with  a  polishing  iron,  which  differs  from  others  by  being 
rounded  instead  of  flat,  without  an  edge,  and  being  smooth  as  glass, 
leaves  no  mark  of  the  iron,  as  common  flat-irons  do.  This  iron  is 
useful  in  ironing  vests,  caps,  and  many  other  articles.  Collars,  although 
a  small  article,  are  seldom  ironed  well,  being  easily  drawn  out  of 
shape ;  pass  the  iron  quickly  over  the  wrong  side  of  the  collar,  then 
iron  the  band,  and  lastly  the  front  side  of  the  collar,  until  it  is  nicely 
polished.  Gentlemen's  pants  are  always  starched ;  to  iron  them  well? 
a  pant-board  should  be  made,  as  directed  for  the  soft  side  of  the 
bosom-board,  on  both  sides  to  reach  as  near  the  full  length  as  possible. 
The  pockets  should  be  turned  out,  before  ironing,  and  no  folds  should 
be  made  in  the  pants,  if  possible  to  avoid  it ;  hang  them  to  air  by 
the  straps  on  the  waistbands.  A  skirt-board  should  be  in  every 
house,  to  iron  dresses  and  skirts ;  it  should  be  six  feet  long,  eighteen 
inches  wide,  one  and  a  half  inches  thick,  and  rounded  at  one  end ; 
cover  one  side,  as  directed  for  the  soft  side  of  the  bosom-board,  and 
make  cases  to  slip  on  and  off,  of  strong  cotton  cloth.  To  use  it,  slip 
the  skirt-board  through  the  skirt,  by  the  round  end,  letting  the  part 
not  on  the  board  fall  on  a  clean  cloth  under  the  board  while  it  is 
being  ironed  ;  when  finished  draw  it  carefully  off  the  board,  and  hang 
it,  if  in  fly-time,  immediately  away.  Fringed  doilies  or  oake  napkins 
should  be  whipped  on  the  skirt-board,  to  straighten  the  fringe. 
Damask  must,  to  look  well,  be  pressed  rather  damp,  on  the  right  side, 
with  heavy  irons  until  quite  dry ;  the  ironing  table  should  be  neither 
too  hard  nor  too  soft;  a  thick  blanket  doubled,  makes  the  thickness 
about  right,  when  covered  with  a  sheet.  Iron-holders  should  have 
cases  that  can  be  taken  off  to  wash,  or  they  should  be  made  of  quilted 
cotton,  and  one  washed  each  week.  The  irons  must  be  kept  free 
from  dampness,  always  standing  on  the  end,  it  ruins  flats  to  set  them  on 
their  faces  ;  should  they  become  rusted  send  them  to  the  emery  mill, 
and  have  them  ground  off,  or  scour  them  with  fine  emery  until  quite 
smooth  on  a  board.  To  cleanse  them  from  burned  starch,  or  other 
impurities,  rub  on  a  cloth  or  smooth  board  a  bit  of  hard  soap,  and 
scour  the  iron  on  it  while  hot,  and  afterwards  rub  it  on  a  damp  cloth, 
until  the  soap  is  entirely  removed.  Muslin  dresses  should  be  as  stiff 
as  new  muslin ;  the  starch  should  be  mixed  through  the  rinsing  water. 
White  gum-arabic  added  to  the  starch,  gives  a  new  appearance  to 
muslins,  and  they  retain  the  stiffness  longer  than  when  starch  alone 
is  used.  Dark  muslins  should  be  starched  with  the  gum  alone,  or  in 
rice  water. 

To  Wash   Printed  India  Muslins  with   Fast  Colors. — Make 


16  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

a  suds  of  good  hard  soap,  and  squeeze  them  through  it  carefully, 
without  rubbing ;  repeat  the  process  three  times,  each  suds  being  no 
warmer  than  blood  heat.  If  the  groundwork  is  white,  put  it  in  clear 
cold  suds,  and  heat  it  boiling  hot ;  after  it  has  boiled  three  minutes, 
rinse  it  in  soft  water  until  the  rinsing  water  is  perfectly  clear ;  then 
take  three  gallons  of  clear  spring  water,  mix  with  it  eighty  drops  of 
the  elixir  of  vitriol,  and  one  gallon  of  rice-water,  made  by  boiling 
a  pound  of  rice  in  four  quarts  of  water  until  perfectly  soft,  adding 
boiling  water  to  the  rice,  as  fast  as  it  evaporates,  so  that  it  is  boiling 
in  the  first  quantity  constantly ;  it  should  be  frequently  stirred,  and 
broken  as  much  as  possible  while  cooking.  "When  the  rice  is  dissolved 
as  much  as  it  will,  pour  the  whole  into  the  water  and  vitriol,  strain 
it  all  through  a  thick  cloth,  and  rinse  the  muslin  in  it ;  wring  the  dress 
as  dry  as  possible,  shake  it  out  well,  and  hang  it  in  the  shade,  until 
sufficiently  dry  to  iron.  Press  it  on  a  skirt-board,  on  the  wrong  side. 
If  the  waist  is  so  made  that  this  cannot  be  done,  lay  a  thin  cloth  be- 
tween the  muslin  and  the  iron,  and  press  until  quite  dry. 

To  Wash  Muslins  of  Doubtful  Ooloes. — Take  rice-water,  and 
wash  them  quickly,  without  soap,  until  perfectly  clean.  If  there  is 
grease  to  bej*emoved,  or  soil  from  the  skin,  rub  the  spots  with  the  yolk 
of  eggs,  and  wash  it  as  though  the  egg  was  soap  ;  rinse  in  hard  water, 
and  to  the  second  rinsing  add,  to  each  gallon  of  water,  forty  drops 
of  elixir  of  vitriol ;  strain  the  water,  after  adding  the  vitriol,  that  it  may 
be  thoroughly  mixed  through ;  wring  dry  ;  hang  it  in  the  shade,  wrong 
side  out,  where  it  will  get  the  air  and  dry  quickly ;  fold  as  soon  as 
sufficiently  dry,  and  iron  in  two  hours,  on  the  wrong  side. 

Prints  with  Fast  Colors. — These  should  be  washed  in  warm  suds, 
and  scalded,  if  the  ground  is  white,  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
them,  but  if  dark,  the  scalding  should  be  omitted.  Kinse  thoroughly, 
and  add  a  little  starch  to  the  last  water,  merely  sufficient  to  give  them 
a  fresh  look,  without  stiffening  them.  Iron  as  soon  as  possible,  after 
being  starched.     Prints  soon  sour. 

To  "Wash  Doubtful  Colored  Prints. — Prepare,  before  com- 
mencing, two  tubs  of  suds,  made  of  hard  soap ;  throw  in  each  a 
handful  of  salt ;  strain  the  suds,  or  bits  of  soap  may  come  in  contact 
with,  and  spot  the  print.  Have  three  rinsing  waters  ready,  in  the 
last  put  forty  drops  to  the  gallon  of  elixir  of  vitriol,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  dissolved  gum-arabic  to  each  gallon  of  hard  water  ;  strain  the  pre- 
pared water  through  a  thick  cloth.    Look  over  the  dress,  and  rub 


WASHING,  STARCHING,  IRONING,  AND    FOLDING    LINEN.  17 

yolk  of  eggs  instead  of  soap,  on  all  grease  spots,  and  wash  them,  in  clear 
warm  water,  until  they  are  removed ;  after  which,  pass  it  through 
two  suds,  rinse  in  two  waters,  and  lastly,  in  the  water  with  the  vitriol 
and  gum  ;  wring  dry,  hang  in  the  shade,  where  it  will  quickly  dry 

from  wind,  and  press  it  on  the  wrong  side. 
m 
Swiss  Muslin,  India,  and  other  thin  muslins,  should  be  gently 
squeezed  hut  never  rubbed.  These  and  all  handkerchiefs,  collars,  and 
small  articles,  should  be  boiled  in  bags  for  the  purpose,  made  suffi- 
ciently large  to  allow  them  to  be  rinsed,  ready  to  put  on  the  clothes- 
line, without  removing  them  from  the  bag.  In  hanging  such  articles 
to  dry,  care  is  needed  to  prevent  their  being  torn  or  soiled ;  they 
should  be  pinned  to  sheets,  or  other  large  articles,  instead  of  the  line, 
and  be  taken  in,  as  soon  as  dry.  Rice-water  is  very  nice  for  all  thin 
muslins;  requiring  but  little  starch;  the  iron  does  not  stick  as 
badly  with  rice  as  other  starch.  Iron  all  muslins,  if  possible,  on  the 
wrong  side. 

To  Wash  Mourning  Prints. — The  suds  should  be  very  weak,  and 
prepared  as  directed  for  prints  with  doubtful  colors,  omitting  the  vit- 
riol ;  ox-gall  is  excellent  for  setting  the  color  of  black  prints,  but  the 
odor  is  disagreeable  to  most  persons. 

Flannels  should  be  washed  in  tepid  water ;  no  soap  should  be 
rubbed  on  them,  if  possible  to  cleanse  them  without.  Suds  should 
be  prepared  for  the  whole  process  before  wetting  the  flannels ;  gen- 
erally two  suds  are  necessary,  and  two  rinsings  for  fine  flannels ;  the 
water  should  be  barely  softened  for  the  last  rinsing  with  toilette  soap,  or 
liquid  ammonia ;  a  teaspoonful  of  the  ammonia  to  a  gallon  of  water  is 
sufficient.  Each  suds  and  rinsing  water  should  be  the  same  heat.  Hot 
or  cold  water  shrinks  woollens,  more  than  tepid  water.  New  white 
flannels  should  soak  in  good  suds  all  night,  to  remove  the  gluten,  that 
is  always  in  them,  or  when  washed  they  will  look  spotted.  If  flannels 
are  washed  with  the  hand,  the  shrinkage  will  be  less  than  if  rubbed 
on  the  board.  Blue  white  flannels  a  trifle  in  the  last  rinse ;  wring 
dry,  and  snap  them  out  until  there  are  no  wrinkles  left  from  the 
wringing ;  hang  them  in  the  shade  to  dry,  and  press  them  slowly  with 
heavy  irons  until  perfectly  dry ;  if  embroidered,  iron  the  embroidery 
on  the  wrong  side,  on  the  soft  side  of  the  skirt-board.  If  skirts,  use 
the  dress-board  to  press  them  on.  If  bound  with  linen  or  cotton,  rinse 
the  bindings  in  boiling  soft  water,  after  the  article  is  rinsed,  without 
wetting  the  flannel ;  wring  the  binding  in  a  towel  as  dry  as  possible, 


18  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

hang  it  to  dry  by  tho  binding,  and  iron  the  binding  before  the  other 
part  of  the  garment. 

Nice  fine  white  woollen  hose,  if  washed,  and  dried  on  frames,  tho 
shape  of  the  stocking  will  never  shrink;  black  or  colored  woollen 
stockings,  to  be  washed  well,  will  need  two  suds ;  the  first  suds  the 
stocking  should  be  rubbed  well,  and  turned,  ami  afterwards,  if  much 
soiled,  rubbed  through  another,  rinsed  quickly,  wrung  dry,  pulled  in 
shape,  and  dried  in  the  shade.  White  woollen  stockings  ought  to  be 
washed  with  as  much  care  as  fine  flannels,  and  in  the  same  manner. 

Peinted  Delaines  need  careful  washing.  The  skirts  ought  to 
be  ripped  from  the  waist,  and  if  desired  to  look  like  new,  the 
whole  dress  must  be  ripped  up.  Wash  quickly  in  from  one  to  two 
suds  prepared  as  for  mourning  prints,  adding  ox-gall,  if  possible,  to 
the  water ;  rinse  as  directed  in  doubtful  prints,  or  substitute  strong 
vinegar  or  alum  for  the  vitriol,  and  twice  as  much  gum-arabic  ;  iron 
it  on  the  wrong  side  ;  as  soon  as  the  iron  will  pass  over  it  without 
sissing,  until  perfectly  dry.  If  the  linings  are  left  in,  dry  the  dress, 
and  iron  in  the  same  manner  as  a  print. 

To  wash  Coloeed  Meeinoes  and  plain  Delaines. — After  the 
dress  is  ripped,  look  it  over  carefully,  and  rub  on  each  grease  or  badly 
soiled  spot  the  yolk  of  eggs ;  let  it  remain  on  the  dress  until  the  next 
day,  or  longer,  if  convenient.  Prepare  weak  suds,  sufficient  to  wash 
each  piece  by  itself}  it  will  not  do  to  put  such  goods  in  the  water,  to 
remain  while  the  whole  is  being  washed,  neither  will  the  same  tub 
of  suds  do  for  each  piece  separate,  as  the  dye,  in  the  fabric,  will  par- 
tially destroy  the  alkali,  so  that  each  successive  breadth  will  have  less 
strength  of  the  suds,  which  will  give  a  different  shade  to  each  piece,  if 
the  color  is  affected  by  the  lye  in  the  soap.  Therefore  the  only  sure 
method  of  giving  the  goods  the  same  shade  and  stiffness  is  to  wash  and 
rinse  each  breadth  and  piece  by  itself.  Wash  each  part  first  in  clear  soft 
water  about  blood  heat,  rubbing  off  all  the  egg ;  then  in  the  suds  the 
same  heat,  after  which  give  two  rinsings  in  warm  rain-water,  and 
stiffen  with  gum-arabic,  using  for  each  gallon  of  water  a  table-spoon- 
ful. To  prepare  it  for  a  dress,  take  two  table-spoonfuls  of  the  gum, 
and  a  gallon  of  boiling  rain-water ;  after  it  is  dissolved,  add  another 
gallon  of  cold  rain-water,  and  strain  it  through  a  thick  cloth.  Take 
a  small  part  for  each  bit  of  the  goods,  dip  in  the  merino,  wring 
hard,  and  hang  it  by  the  edge  to  drain,  where  the  sun  will  not  strike 
it ;  after  it  drains,  take  it  down,  and  shake  it  until  the  marks  of  the 


WASHING,   STARCHING,  IRONING,   AND   FOLDING   LINEN.  19 

wringing  is  gone,  and  the  water  snapped  out  of  it ;  roll  it  in  a  sheet  for 
an  hour,  and  press  it  slowly  on  the  side  that  is  to  be  turned  in  when 
made  up.  If  double-width  goods,  fold  the  breadths  evenly  after  it  is 
ironed,  lay  a  damp  strip  of  cotton  on  the  fold,  and  press  the  edge  with 
a  warm  heavy  iron,  moving  it  constantly,  so  as  not  to  leave  the  im- 
pression of  the  flat  on  the  goods.  The  fold  should  be  on  the  side  it  is 
intended  to  be  made  up. 

Plain  Delicate  Colored  Merinoes  and  Delaines. — Boil  a  peck 
of  bran  in  a  washboiler  of  soft  water  three  hours  ;  let  it  settle,  and 
become  cold ;  when  clear,  strain  it  through  a  thick  cloth,  and  wash 
the  goods  in  the  water,  passing  each  piece  through  a  part  of  the  bran- 
water  by  itself ;  rub  it  through  three  waters  ;  rinse,  stiffen,  dry,  and 
iron,  as  directed  for  colored  goods  of  the  same  fabrics. 

To  Wash  Printed  Merinoes,  Delaines,  or  other  Printed  Woollen 
Goods. — Prepare  a  bran-water,  and  wash  quickly  as  possible,  each 
piece  by  itself,  as  directed  for  delicate  colored  goods  of  the  same  fab- 
rics. Kinse,  stiffen,  dry,  and  iron  the  same,  except  the  addition  of 
twenty  drops  to  the  gallon  of  elixir  of  vitriol  in  the  stiffening  water, 
remembering  always  to  strain  the  water  after  putting  in  the  vitriol. 
Wash  articles,  that  are  almost  certain  to  fade,  in  bran-water,  adding  to 
each  gallon  of  water  twenty  drops  of  elixir  of  vitriol,  and  dry  quickly 
in  the  shade  ;  select  a  windy  day  to  wash  them,  and  wring  the  article, 
if  there  are  gathers  or  linings,  in  cloth,  until  all  the  moisture  possible 
is  absorbed  by  the  cloth.  Such  goods  ought  to  be  washed  before  badly 
soiled,  if  possible. 

To  Wash  Chintz  Spreads  with  Green  or  Blue  Ground. — Pub 
them  through  three  bran-waters  ;  to  the  last,  add  to  each  gallon  twenty 
drops  of  elixir  of  vitriol  to  brighten  the  green.  Hang  them  up  single, 
without  wringing,  to  drain,  where  the  sun  cannot  fade  them.  If  double 
on  the  line,  it  will  be  too  long  drying,  and  the  colors  become  mixed. 
If  tapes  are  sewed  on  at  regular  intervals  before  they  are  wet,  to  hang 
them  by,  they  can  be  fastened  securely,  without  doubling  the  edge.  If 
there  is  cotton  quilted  in  the  spread,  rinse  in  clear  well-water  three 
times,  without  stiffening,  each  rinsing  water  containing  the  proper  pro- 
portion of  vitriol  carefully  strained,  and  Wring  them  as  dry  as  possible. 
When  either  the  single  or  quilted  spread  drains  so  as  to  fill  the  lower 
part  with  water,  while  the  top  is  nearly  dry,  wring  the  lower  part ; 
this  will  need  to  be  repeated  several  times  while  drying.  When 
nearly  dry,  fold  the  single  spreads  evenly,  and  roll  them  up  for  two  or 

i 


20   -        housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

three  hours,-  after  which  press  them  slowly  on  the  skirt-board,  with- 
out doubling.  The  quilts,  after  they  are  nearly  dry,  may  be  stretched 
on  frames,  or  the  carpet,  until  sufficiently  aired,  to  spread  on  the  beds. 

To  Wash  Chintz  with  Red  Ground,  Turkey  Red,  or  other  Red 
Prints. — Prepare  the  bran-water  as  directed ;  add  to  each  water  an 
ounce  of  cream  of  tartar ;  should  this  not  keep  the  color  from  dis- 
charging, ao$  ten  drops  of  the  muriate  of  tin  to  each  gallon  of  the 
second  water ;  hang  the  chintz  in  the  shade,  after  passing  through 
three  waters. 

To  "Wash  Brown  and  other  Colored  Chintzes. — Mix  in  the 
bran-water  ox-gall,  and  rub  each  article  through  three  bran-waters, 
and  rinse  in  well-water.  The  water  for  all  colored  articles  should 
never  be  hot.    Dry  in  the  shade. 

To  "Wash  Scarlet  Merinoes,  Delaines,  etc. — Prepare  bran- 
water  ;  to  each  pailful  add  a  table-spoonful  of  good  cream  of  tartar. 
If  the  color  is  discharged  in  the  water,  add  to  each  gallon  of  water 
twenty  drops  of  the  muriate  of  tin.  In  the  last  rinse,  omit  bran  or 
tin,  unless  the  last  water  was  colored  ;  if  so,  add  the  tin.  Press  evenly, 
when  in  the  proper  state  to  iron,  with  as  cool  a  flat  as  can  be  used 
without  soiling  the  goods,  until  perfectly  smooth.  If  the  irons  are 
very  hot  the  goods  may  be  discolored  by  the  heat.  In  putting  in  the 
folds,  be  careful  not  to  have  the  cloth  much  damp,  so  as  to  require 
a  very  hot  iron,  and  pass  it  over  lightly  until  the  fold  is  well 
pressed  in. 

To  "Wash  Blue,  Brown,  and  Black  Merinoes,  etc. — If  there  are  any 
grease  or  other  badly  soiled  spots  from  contact  with  the  skin,  make  a 
paste  of  fuller's  earth  and  boiling  water,  rub  the  spots  with  the  paste, 
and  dry  it  by  the  fire.  While  drying,  mix  in  two  tubs,  containing  two 
pails  of  soft  warm  water  each,  a  half-pint  of  ox-gall,  and  four  quarts 
of  old  urine  in  each  tub?  and  strain  the  water  before  putting  in  the 
goods.  Wash  the  article  quickly,  each  breadth  in  a  small  part  of  the 
water,  and  afterwards  rinse  twice,  adding  gum-arabic  to  the  last 
rinsing.  Dry,  and  iron,  as  directed  for  colored  merinoes.  If  the 
articles  washed,  are  broadcloths,  etc.,  treat  the  goods  as  follows: 
rinse,  without  stiffening,  in  water  rather  more  than  blood-heat,  and 
dry  them,  without  wringing,  on  the  wrong  side ;  when  nearly  dry  pull 
them  in  shape,  press  them  with  a  hot  iron  on  the  wrong  side,  to  re- 
move all  wrinkles,  and  hang  them  up  again  until  dry,  after  which 


WASHING,   STARCHING,   IRONING,  AND   FOLDING    LINEN.  21 

turn  and  brush  them  the  wrong  way  of  the  nap,  until  a  little  rough, 
and  then  the  right  way  until  smooth.  Have  ready  whiskey  and  water, 
half  and  half,  with  which  wet  a  linen  cloth,  and  wring  it  dry ;  the 
irons  should  he  hot,  but  not  scorching,  and  heavy ;  lay  the  wet  linen 
over  the  article  on  the  right  side,  and  press  -slowly,  moving  the  iron 
constantly  the  way  of  the  nap.  If  the  iron  stands,  it  will  mark  the 
goods  with  its  shape.  Broadcloths,  managed  in  this  manner,  look 
like  new. 

Ginghams. — Ginghams  should  be  washed  carefully ;  never  allow 
them  to  lie  wet  or  in  the  suds.  Dark  ginghams  and  prints  should 
never  be  washed  with  the  light ;  salt  in  the  water  helps  to  keep  the 
colors  bright.  If  washed  in  bran  or  rice-water,  they  will  not  fade 
nor  be  injured  ;  dry  in  the  shade,  and  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

To  "Wash  Embroideries. — Prepare  a  strong  suds  with  good  hard 
soap.  Look  over  and  mend  all  broken  places  in  the  work,  and  soak 
the  articles  until  the  next  day.  Squeeze  them  carefully  out  of  the 
suds,  passing  each  article  through  the  hand  several  times ;  prepare 
other  suds,  and  wash  them  in  the  same  manner  until  the  suds  is  left 
perfectly  clean.  If  you  scald  them,  put  the  collars,  etc.,  in  a  bag, 
pour  over  them  cold  suds,  heat  gradually,  and  boil  five  minutes.  If 
very  yellow  by  lying,  put  them  in  a  white  earthen  wash-bowl,  make 
a  nice  suds,  lay  them  in  the  bowl,  and  set  it  in  the  sun  for  two  or 
three  days,  changing  the  water  daily.  The  articles  must  be  fre- 
quently pressed  under  the  water,  and  stirred  up,  so  as  to  bring  each 
to  the  influence  of  the  sun.  Kinse,  without  wringing  much,  until  the 
water  is  quite  clear,  then  add  a  little  blue  to  the  rinsing  water ; 
strain  it  th rough  a  thick  white  cloth  ;  dip  each  article  in,  one  by  one, 
and  wring,  by  pressing  them  in  a  towel.  If  desired  very  stiff,  dry 
before  starching ;  if  not,  hare  the  starch  ready,  dip  them  in  while  it 
is  boiling  hot,  and  press  out  all  that  is  possible  in  a  towel.  As  fast 
as  a  piece  is  starched,  spread  it  on  plain  cotton ;  stretch  the  work 
properly,  and  roll  it  tightly.  This  has  the  same  effect  as  clear  starch- 
ing, which  not  only  wears  the  embroidery,  but  is  very  fatiguing. 
Iron  when  in  a  proper  state,  on  the  wrong  side,  using  the  seft  side  of 
the  bosom-board.  The  ironing  should  be  done  slowly,  with  moderate 
irons,  and  it  is  well  to  lay  a  thin  cloth  over  the  collars  on  the  wrong 
side  while  passing  the  iron  over  the  first  time.  If  rubbed  instead  of 
pressed,  the  work,  if  heavy,  will  be  apt  to  break.  The  starch  made 
from  rice  does  not  stick  to  the  iron  as  badly  as  wheat  or  flour  starch. 


22  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

To  Prepare  Starch  for  Embroideries. — Take  as  much  as  is 
needed  of  good  clean  starch,  that  has  no  sour  taste.  A  teaspoonful 
■will  starch  a  collar,  if  but  one  is  to  be  done  up  ;  a  table-spoonful  will 
starch  six  if  all  the  starch  is  squeezed  back  into  the  basin  as  each  ar- 
ticle is  dipped.  Look  carefully  at  the  starch,  see  that  no  specks  of 
fine  dust  are  mixed  with  it,  mix  it  smoothly  with  cold  water.  Have 
ready  clear  soft  water,  boiling  hot,  in  the  starch  basin ;  add  a  little 
to  the  starch,  stir  it  up,  and  add  it  gradually  to  the  boiling  water ; 
stir  it  until  boiled  perfectly  clear,  then  boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes, 
without  stirring ;  remove  the  skin  that  forms  over  the  top,  add  to 
each  table-spoonful  of  starch,  a  bit  of  sperm  as  large  as  a  hazel-nut. 
Have  ready  one  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  pure  loaf-sugar  boiled  in 
a  table-spoonful  of  water,  until  quite  clear,  without  scorching ;  re- 
move the  scum  from  the  sugar,  and  mix  it  thoroughly  in  the  starch ; 
after  which  strain  the  starch  hot.  This  can  be  done  by  using  a 
starch  bag,  pressing  the  starch  through  with  a  spoon.  Articles  done 
up  in  this  starch  look  beautifully.  If  it  is  used  for  plain  linen  col- 
lars, add  a  little  white  wax  to  give  a  polish. 

Starch  eor  Heavy  Skirts  can  be  made  with  wheat  flour,  mixed 
as  directed  for  starch,  adding  salt  instead  of  sperm  or  wax ;  boil  until 
clear,  and  strain  it  through  a  bag  while  hot.  Some  say  if  the  starch 
is  salted  freezing  will  not  destroy  the  stiffness,  but  this  is  not  so ;  if 
frozen,  the  articles  will  hardly  show  the  starch. 

To  Wash  Thread  Edging. — Get  quart  bottles  that  have  never 
been  used,  sew  around  them  a  fold  of  cotton  cloth,  and  wrap  the  lace 
carefully  on  them,  so  that  the  edge  of  the  whole  piece  can  be  seen ; 
soak  it  in  several  suds  until  the  whole  is  clean.  If  the  lace  is  desired 
white,  lay  the  bottle  in  cold  suds,  heat  it  to  a  scald,  and  rinse  in  clear 
water  until  the  water  is  free  from  soap  ;  press  it  in  a  towel,  and 
hang  up  the  bottle  by  the  neck  until  the  lace  is  dry.  If  desired  the 
color  of  new  lace,  rinse  until  clear  from  the  soap,  and  then  put  it  in 
a  weak  suds  made  from  white  toilet  soap,  and  dry  on  the  bottle  as  be- 
fore directed.  The  suds  will  stiffen  the  lace  sufficiently.  "When  nearly 
dry  take  the  lace  from  the  bottle,  pick  out  the  edge,  lay  over  it  a 
cloth  and  press  lightly,  without  perfectly  drying  the  fabric,  with  the 
heat  of  the  iron,  after  which  roll  it  on  a  block  or  card  until  wanted. 

To  "Wash  Silks. — First  know  what  mordants  were  employed  by 
the  dyers,  and  use  those  of  the  same  nature,  if  possible,  in  the  bran- 
water  while  washing.    If  reds,  the  muriate  of  tin ;  for  greens,  blues, 


WASHING,  STARCHING,  IRONING,  AND   FOLDING    LINEN.  23 

crimson,  maroon,  and  bright  yellow,  use  oil  of  vitriol.  When  badly 
soiled,  the  bran-water  must  be  used  alone,  and  the  goods  be  rinsed  in 
water  containing  the  mordant.  Proceed  as  follows :  First  rip  the 
dress,  and  look  it  over ;  if  greased,  rub  the  spots  in  the  yolk  of  egg, 
and  let  them  dry ;  then  spread  the  silk  on  a  clean  whitewood  board, 
and  wash  each  breadth  with  a  sponge  or  woollen  cloth,  first  one  side, 
and  then  the  other,  as  quickly  as  possible ;  rinse  in  the  prepared 
water  without  wringing.  If  very  much  soiled,  it  may  need  going 
over  twice ;  if  so,  finish  the  washing  before  drying  the  egg^  using  it 
after  first  rinsing  in  the  water  prepared.  Dry  in  the  shade,  stiffen 
with  a  very  small  bit  of  gum-arabic  in  the  last  rinse,  unless  the  silk 
is  heavy;  if  so,  it  will  look  better  without.  The  best  manner  in 
which  laundry  maids  can  iron  a  silk  dress  is,  to  have  a  nice  new  piece 
of  stove  pipe,  which  is  perfectly  clean,  heated  and  placed  through  a 
stick,  so  that  it  cannot  roll,  the  stick  being  longer  than  the  pipe,  and 
laying  across  the  back  of  chairs,  or  on  tables ;  let  two  persons  take 
hold  of  the  silk  and  draw  it  over  the  pipe  until  well  pressed ;  this  is 
much  better  than  ironing  in  the  usual  manner.  Light  fawn  and 
brown  silks  usually  wash  well,  and  need  no  mordants.  Ribbons  can 
be  washed  in  the  same  manner,  and  ironed  when  dry  by  drawing 
them  across  the  flat  iron.  Soft  India  silks  can  be  squeezed  in  the 
water,  and  ironed  on  the  wrong  side  with  a  cool  iron.  Black  silks 
should  be  sponged  in  a  water  prepared  with  gall  and  bran-water. 

To  "Wash  Bombazines. — Make  a  good  suds,  add  gall,  and  squeeze 
through  the  hand  without  rubbing.  Rinse  thoroughly,  and  stiffen  a 
very  little  with  gum-arabic.  Do  not  wring  the  goods ;  when  nearly 
dry,  roll  it  in  black  cambric ;  press  slowly  over  black  with  a  heavy 
iron  on  the  wrong  side,  leaving  no  marks  of  the  iron,  and  put  into  it 
a  fold  as  described  in  the  directions  to  wash  colored  merinoes. 

To  Wash  Lace  and  Embroidered  Curtains. — Pursue  the  same 
plan  of  washing  as  advised  for  embroideries.  Prepare  the  starch  in 
the  same  manner,  using  as  much  more  water  as  is  needed.  Starch 
them  in  the  same  way,  and  roll  them  up  until  nearly  dry  enough  to 
press.  Pin  sheets  on  the  carpet,  spread  out  the  curtains,  Carefully 
shaping  every  scollop  on  the  sheets,  be  careful  to  lay  them  perfectly 
straight,  pin  them  in  place,  and  leave  them  until  quite  dry.  Barred 
muslins  and  harness  pattern  drapery  better  be  ironed  on  the  wrong 
side,  as  the  trouble  of  spreading  is  much  more  than  ironing,  and 
they  look  very  well  ironed. 


24 

To  Iron  Cotton  Sheets. — Cotton  sheets,  if  folded  evenly,  and 
laid  under  the  ironing  sheet,  will  be  well  pressed  by  ironing  the 
other  linen.  Linen  sheets  need  hard  pressing  over  the  whole  surface 
and  both  sides  of  the  hems. 

To  "Wash  a  "White  Counterpane. — Soak  it  in  a  strong  solution 
of  soap  and  soda  for  forty -eight  hours.  If  there  are  spots,  rub  them ; 
if  not,  boil  it  one  hour  in  a  boiler  of  suds,  with  three  table-spoonfuls 
of  soda,  and  two  of  turpentine.  Einse  in  three  waters  without 
wringing ;  in  the  fourth  rinsing  put  a  little  blue,  and  wring  the  way 
the  warp  runs.  "When  it  drains,  squeeze  out  the  water  from  the 
edges,  and  when  partly  dry  spread  it  out  carefully,  that  no  creases 
from  the  wringing  or  line  may  be  left.  When  dry,  stretch  and  fold 
it  evenly,  and  press  it  by  laying  a  weight  upon  it. 

To  "Wash  Blane:ets. — Wash  them  in  good  suds  until  quite  clean ; 
if  much  soiled,  they  will  require  two  or  three  waters.  Einse  them  in 
tepid  water  until  clear,  adding  to  the  last  rinsing  water  a  very  little 
fine  soap.  Hard  or  hot  water  should  never  be  used  in  washing  or 
rinsing  any  woollen  goods.  They  should  be  wrung  very  dry,  snapped 
well  to  remove  the  wrinkles,  and  dried  as  soon  as  possible ;  when 
dry,  press  with  a  moderate  iron  until  smooth. 

Directions  for  scouring  carpets,  etc.,  and  receipts  for  bleaching,  la- 
bor-saving soap,  etc.,  will  be  found  in  another  part  of  this  work. 


CHAPTER   V. 

DIRECTIONS  FOE  THE  ENTERTAINMENT  OF  VISITORS. 

When  inviting  company  never  undertake  more  than  you  can  per- 
form with  credit  to  yourself;  understand  your  resources,  and  what 
ought  to  be  expected  of  you  in  your  circumstances.  Do  not  aim  to 
an  equality  in  entertainments  with  more  wealthy  people. 

-  To  serve  a  Good  Dinner  for  a  Party  of  Gentlemen  who 
do  not  use  Wine. — Unless  the  table  is  very  handsome  it  should 
first  be  covered  with  a  colored  table-cloth,  after  which  a  white  cloth 
must  be  spread  evenly  over  the  table.  If  twelve  guests  are  invited, 
set  fourteen  plates,  as  before  directed,  with  knife,  fork,  table-spoon, 


DIRECTIONS- FOR    THE    ENTERTAINMENT    OF   VISITORS.  25 

napkin,  goblet,  and  salt ;  place  the  knife  with  the  handle  towards  the 
right ;  the  fork  on  the  left,  with  the  handle  towards  the  edge  of  the 
table ;  napkin  and  goblet  on  the  right ;  spoon  between  goblet  and 
plate ;  and  salt  on  the  left.  A  side  table  should  be  spread,  containing 
water,  a  plate  of  bread,  extra  napkins,  fourteen  large  and  twenty- 
eight  small  plates,  also  fruit,  nuts,  and  fruit  napkins ;  as  many  large 
and  small  knives  and  forks  as  there  are  small  plates. 

The  bread  should  be  cut  in  squares,  and  a  piece  laid  on  each  nap- 
kin. The  castor  should  be  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  table,  jellies 
and  relishes  at  the  corners,  spoons  put  on  tastily  in  places  convenient 
for  the  dishes.  "When  dinner  is  ready  the  lady  of  the  house  may 
inform  her  husband.  The  soup  should  be  placed  before  the  lady  of 
the  house,  the  soup  plates  having  been  placed  beside  her  plate  when 
the  table  was  laid ;  a  waiter  should  fill  the  goblets  while  the  soup  is 
passing,  which  should  be  offered  to  every  guest,  commencing  at  her 
right  hand,  without  remark.  The  host  in  the  mean  time  should 
notice  if  any  guest  refuses  soup  ;  if  so,  he  will  serve  them  with  fish 
which  stands  before  him.  The  waiter  must  notice  when  the  guests 
are  through  with  soup,  take  the  plate  immediately,  and  bring  him 
fish  if  desired.  The  hostess  must  help  the  host  last,  and  the  host  the 
hostess  in  like  manner.  When  the  fish  has  been  served,  remove  soup, 
fish  plates,  knives,  and  forks.  A  boiled  turkey  is  placed  before  the 
host,  oyster  sauce  on  his  left,  with  the  handle  of  the  ladle  towards 
the  edge  of  the  table ;  potatoes  on  the  right,  which  should  be  mashed ; 
and  turnips  on  the  left.  It  is  not  fashionable  now  for  a  lady  to 
carve.  Another  platter  containing  beef  may  be  placed  before  a  guest, 
who  is  requested  to  carve  ;  and  another  to  balance  on  the  other  side, 
with  duck,  or  some  other  fowl,  may  be  set  before  some  other  guest, 
who  should  also  be  requested  to  carve.  If  ham  or  beef  is  on  the  table 
with  the  turkey,  it  will  be  all  sufficient,  but  two  distinct  varieties  of 
meat  are  absolutely  necessary  for  a  genteel  dinner.  When  the  guests 
have  finished  with  this  course,  the  table  must  be  entirely  cleared,  and 
the  first  cloth  removed ;  the  pudding  should  then  be  placed  before  the 
hostess,  and  the  relishes  before  the  host.  She  commences  at  the 
right  as  before,  and  passes  a  piece  to  each  guest,  the  host  passing  the 
relishes.  When  this  is  finished  the  waiter  brings  on  the  fruit,  nuts, 
etc. ;  the  plates,  napkins,  knives,  etc.,  are  placed  before  each  guest 
with  as  little  parade  as  possible.  When  the  dessert  is  finished,  the 
lady  gives  a  signal  to  the  host,  and  rises  from  the  table,  taking  the 
arm  of  her  escort,  who  should  have  been  seated  at  her  right,  and 
2 


2(5  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

leads  the  way  to  the  parlor,  where  coffee  should  be  immediatelj 
served,  unless  served  at  the  table  as  a  last  course. 

Directions  for  Evening  Parties. — It  is  fashionable  now  to 
spread  a  table  in  the  dining-room,  to  which  the  guests  are  invited  for 
refreshment.  Much  taste  can  be  employed  in  decorating  the  table ; 
where  flowers  are  plenty,  nothing  is  more  beautiful  than  well-ar- 
ranged bouquets.  A  few  articles  are  deemed  essential  for  parties ; 
chicken  salad,  ice  cream,  whips  or  flummeries,  jellies,  fruits,  nuts, 
coffee  and  tea,  sandwiches,  cakes,  and  fancy  confectioneries. 

The  large  dishes  should  stand  at  the  head  and  foot  of  the  table, 
fancy  dishes  in  the  centre,  to  balance  each  other,  and  smaller  in 
groups.  Any  person  of  taste  can  arrange  to  suit  themselves  much 
better  than  they  can  be  directed.  If  you  wish  good  coffee,  don't 
allow  it  to  be  put  on  the  fire  until  just  before  time  to  serve  the  re- 
freshments ;  it  is  quite  common  to  smell  coffee  two  or  three  hours 
before  it  is  served.  For  directions  in  preparing  dishes,  see  different 
recipes  in  this  work. 

If  possible,  have  all  your  arrangements  concluded  early,  that  you 
may  not  look  jaded  or  care-worn.  Do  not  appear  anxious  if  any 
accident  occurs,  take  no  notice  of  it,  or  pass  it  lightly ;  don't  ask  if 
this  or  that  relishes,  or  if  the  evening  has  passed  pleasantly ;  take  it 
for  granted  your  guests  are  happy;  nothing  embarrasses  visitors 
more  than  a  fussy  anxiety,  fearing  they  are  dull,  etc.  Be  easy  your- 
self, and  your  guests  will  feel  the  same.  In  your  dress  be  simple, 
not  pretending  to  make  a  show,  that  no  person  may  feel  that  you  are 
better  dressed  than  themselves.  Spend,  but  little  time^  with  each 
guest,  that  all  may  receive  your  attentions,  let  your  manners  be  quiet 
and  dignified.  If  any  guest  brings  a  stranger  uninvited,  be  particu- 
larly polite  to  them ;  if  a  gentleman,  introduce  him  first  to  your  hus- 
band, and  then  to  others  near ;  if  a  lady,  introduce  to  the  host,  who 
will  introduce  her  to  others.  In  short,  act  the  lady,  and  you  will  suc- 
ceed in  making  your  entertainments  pleasant  for  your  guests. 

How  to  Treat  accidental  Company. — In  the  first  place,  make 
your  friends  welcome ;  but  do  not  make  a  fussy  parade  or  show  in 
doing  it.  If  you  can  possibly  do  so,  avoid  cooking  on  their  account ; 
it  makes  a  person  feel  uncomfortable  to  find  themselves  the  occasion 
of  extra  trouble.  Better  by  far  give  them  without  comment  the  best 
the  house  affords  ready  prepared,  and  spend  the  time  of  the  visit  in 
their  society.  It  is  generally  supposed  our  friends  are  not  obliged  to 
make  visits  to  supply  the  deficiencies  at  home ;  and  we  are  to  take  tl.e 


DIRECTIONS    FOR    THE    ENTERTAINMENT    OF   VISITORS.  2.7 

visit  as  a  desire  for  our  society  rather  than  the  costly  viands  with 
which  we  might  load  our  table.  "When  friends  come  from  a  distance, 
be  particularly  careful  not  to  have  them  imagine  their  visit  ill-timed ; 
do  not  complain  of  poor  help,  or  want  of  room  to  make  them  as  com- 
fortable as  you  would  wish.  If  you  have  a  good  room,  give  it  them  ; 
if,  on  the  other  hand,  your  accommodations  are  not  such  as  you  would 
desire  on  their  account  and  your  own,  make  no  apology,  do  not  let 
them  see  your  mortification,  but  act  as  though  you  felt  satisfied  with 
yourself  and  the  world.  If  you  have  all  you  need,  and  your  friends 
have  hardly  as  much  of  this  world  as  would  be  for  their  comfort,  be 
careful  not  to  wound  their  feelings  by  an  ostentatious  show  of  the 
comforts  you  happen  to  be  blessed  with,  but  appear  as  though  your 
friends  were  accustomed  to  every  luxury,  and  these  trifles  were  only 
a  matter  of  course.  "When  a  friend  arrives,  it  is  expected  they  need 
the  refreshment  both  of  toilet  and  table ;  as  soon  as  congratulations 
are  over,  and  their  luggage  arrived,  show  them  to  their  rooms.  Be 
sure  that  every  article  needed  is  there  before  you  go  up.  Do  not  be 
obliged  to  call  for  water,  towels,  etc.,  but  let  them  think  the  room 
was  in  order  for  company  before  their  arrival.  A  bit  of  meat  relishes 
well  after  a  journey,  if  it  can  be  obtained  without  too  much  trouble. 
Do  not  hurry  your  guests  at  their  toilet,  but  be  ready  as  soon  as  they 
have  finished  their  toilet,  to  serve  refreshments. 

Allow  them  to  propose  retiring  at  night,  instead  of  saying  your- 
self, "  Our  friends  must  be  fatigued  after  their  journey,  and  we  will 
retire  early  on  their  account."  If  convenient,  their  room  should  be 
put  in  order  while  breakfast  is  serving ;  if  not,  as  soon  as  possible 
after.  Do  not  allow  a  guest  ever  to  feel  that  you  are  putting  yourself 
to  trouble  on  their  account.  If  you  make  changes,  do  it  quietly,  that 
it  may  not  be  noticed.  It  is  much  more  agreeable  to  a  guest  to  be 
treated  to  plain  fare  than  to  feel  that  they  are  making  needless 
trouble. 


CHAPTER   VI, 

CHAPTER  TO  HUSBANDS— EXCUSE  FOE  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

First  of  all  you  will  say,  "Why  was  this  chapter  written  ?  What 
have  husbands  to  do  with  housekeeping  ?  If  they  furnish  the  funds 
to  supply  the  family,  is  not  that  sufficient  ?    What  more  can  be  ex- 


28  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

pected  of  us?    We  love  our  families,  and  work  hard  to  maintain  them. 
Surely  we  cannot  be  expected  to  be  housekeepers  too.     When  we 
married,  we  expected  to  find  a  housekeeper  as  well  as  companion  in 
our  wife — we  never  agreed  to  carry  all  the  burdens  of  the  family. 
True,  and  no  true  wife  wishes  it.     We  know  you  love  your  families, 
and  often  overtask  yourself,  in  your  unwearied  efforts  to  maintain 
them.     Yet  most  of  you,  perhaps  not  all,  in  trifles  that  to  you  appear 
as  light  as  air,  add,  unconsciously  to  yourself,  many  a  care  to  your 
overburdened  wife.     It  is  with  the  hope,  perhaps  a  vain  one,  of  open- 
ing the  eyes  of  young  husbands,  before  their  habits  are  fixed,  to  the 
importance  of  thoughtfulness  in  minor  matters,  to  ensure  the  comfort 
and  happiness   of  the  family  circle,   that  this  chapter  is   written. 
Want  of  punctuality,  particularly  at  the  mid-day  meal,  is  perhaps  one 
of  the  greatest  of  your  failings.     If  you  are  able  to  furnish  plenty  of 
servants,  it  is  a  less  trial  than  where  none  or  only  one  can  be  em- 
ployed.    The  first  object  in  all  private  families,  as  far  as  cooking  is 
concerned,  is,  or  should  be,  to  suit  the  gentlemen  of  the  family,  espe- 
cially the  head  of  the  house.     The  dishes  that  please  him  most,  are 
the  oftenest  served;  many  times  the  wife  exerts  herself  beyond  her 
strength  in  the, hope  of  pleasing  her  husband,  by  placing  before  him 
choice  viands  elaborately  prepared,  when  by  the  delay  of  fifteen 
minutes,  the  whole  dinner,  which  was  perhaps  a  forenoon's  work,  is 
ruined.    Sometimes  delay  is  unavoidable,  but  usually  business  arrange- 
ments can  be  made,  with  sufficient  accuracy,  to  ensure  punctuality, 
provided  its  importance  is  appreciated.     It  is  too  often  true,  that 
something  besides  the  regular  business  detains  you — politics,  argu- 
ments, long  stories ;  etc.,  etc.     These  matters  surely  can  be  deferred 
to  a  more  convenient  time.     We  have  known  a  few  gentlemen  who 
always  closed  business  at  a  given  hour,  let  who  would  be  waiting, 
and  they  succeeded, in  the  world  too.     If  this  is  the  habit  of  a  man, 
his  friends  and  customers  soon  find  it  out.     It  would  take  but  a  few 
decided  efforts  to  accomplish  this.     "  Gentlemen,  this  is  my  hour  for 
dining,"  is  sufficient  excuse  to  all  lovers  of  good  cheer,  and  there  are 
but  few  of  the  "lords  of  creation,"  who  do  not  fully  sustain  this 
character.     Do  you  not  remember,  if  you  have  been  married  a  few 
years,  many  times  to  have  found  your  dinner  spoiled,  wife  out  of 
tune,  and  yourself  seriously  annoyed,  when  you  could,  without  injury 
to  business,  or  even  trespassing  on  the  laws  of  courtesy,  have  been 
punctual  to  the  moment  ?     And  again,  when  for  important  reasons 
you  desire  the  dinner  prompt,  you  have  found  it  far  from  ready,  have 
you  not  found  fault,  and  been  reproached  with  such  want  of  regu- 


CHAPTER  TO  HUSBANDS EXCUSE  FOR  HOUSEKEEPERS.    29 

larity  yourself,  as  to  make  it  impossible  to  keep  up  a  proper  system 
in  the  family  ?  If  not,  you  are  a  pattern  husband,  whose  example  it 
would  be  well  for  many  to  copy.  If  your  wife  has  no  servants,  or  not  a 
sufficient  number  to  do  the  work  of  the  family,  her  time  is  as  precious 
as  yours,  and  the  moments  wasted  waiting  for  you,  must  be  made  up 
by  extra  exertion  through  the  day,  or  taken  from  the  hours  necessary 
for  repose  at  night.  You  think  little  of  this,  or  your  practice  would  bo 
different. 

Fault-finding. — This  too  is  a  serious  trouble,  especially  with 
the  inexperienced  houskeeper.  Don't  find  fault,  if  you  can  avoid 
it,  especially  when  the  matter  which  annoys  is  before  you.  If 
the  dinner  is  poor,  it  will  not  be  improved  by  ill-nature.  You  may 
have,  in  selecting  a  companion,  chosen  one  highly  accomplished, 
without  a  particle  of  household  knowledge  ;  you  ought  to  have  seen 
this  defect  removed  before  marriage.  Few  sensible  young  ladies, 
but  would  gladly  educate  themselves  for  accomplished  housekeepers, 
could  they  have  the  time  to  do  so,  after  they  have  been  selected  to 
fill  the  station  of  wife,  but  usually  the  young  lady  returns  from 
school  ignorant  of  all  household  matters,  and  marries  almost  im- 
mediately after ;  you  should  take  a  part  of  the  blame  of  the  house- 
keeping mistakes  on  yourself,  and  charge  her  mother  with  the  re- 
mainder. Encouragement  will  go  further  with  the  young  wife,  than 
blame.  Never  wish  for  the  dishes  your  mother  prepared -for  you 
when  a  boy.  There  is  nothing  of  which  a  wife  is  more  jealous  than 
a  mother-in-law's  cookery ;  besides,  there  is  scarcely  a  doubt,  that  the 
very  dishes  so  much  longed  for,  would  fail  to  please  you  now.  "When 
a  boy,  every  thing  relished  with  boyish  zest ;  but  now,  even  your 
mother,  noted  for  her  cookery  of  the  old-fashion  dishes,  if  you  have 
become  accustomed  to  the  more  modern  styles,  would  be  found 
faulty.  But  suppose  she  was,  and  is  now,  a  perfect  housekeeper  in 
all  respects,  is  it  kind  or  gentlemanly  to  put  your  mother,  with  her 
years  of  experience,  in  competition  with  your  young  and  inexperienced 
wife  ?  You  must  bear  and  forbear,  as  very  likely  your  father  did  be- 
fore you,  or  you  will  never  have  a  housekeeper  in  your  wife.  Avoid 
ridicule  and  bringing  up  mistakes,  however  absurd,  before  a  third 
person,  and  never,  under  any  circumstances,  make  apologies  for  your 
wife's  failings  before  company  at  the  table  ;  mistakes  will  be  noticed 
less,  if  passed  without  remark,  and  your  wife's  feelings  are  of  more 
account  than  the  whole  dinner,  and  your  own  mortification  besides. 
The  want  of  order  in  husbands,  is  also  a  trial  of  no  small  moment 


30  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

to  wives ;  it  is  as~easy  for  a  gentleman  to  hang  np  his  coat,  put  away 
his  overshoes,  papers,  books,  etc.,  as  for  his  wife  to  follow  him  as  she 
would  a  child,  rearranging  all  that  he  lays  his  hand  on.     The  want 
of  cleanliness,  often  tries  patience  sadly :  what  could  have  been  pre- 
vented by  a  little  forethought  in  a  few  moments'  time,  takes  hours, 
perhaps,  to  remedy.     Boots  are  not  wiped  on  the  rug,  and  soil  the 
carpet ;  umbrellas  left  in  the  hall  to  drain,  stain  the  carpet ;  marble 
hearths  are  stained  with  tobacco  juice,  when  spitoons  are  at  hand, 
(we  regret  the  necessity  of  alluding  to  this  miserable  habit ;)  and  in 
many  other  ways  an  untidy  man  will  increase  the  labor  of  the  family. 
Sympathize  with  your  wife  in  her  trials ;  these  are  not  few,  although 
you  may  wonder  what  she  can  have  to  trouble  her.     You  expect  her 
to  be  ready  to  listen  to  all  that  troubles  you  in  business  matters, 
while  you  are  too  apt  to  think  she  has  no  right  to  be  tired  by  her 
cares.     If  you  find  her  fatigued,  you  are  sure  she  has  been  doing 
unnecessary  work.     You  cannot  see  how  a  little  sweeping,  dusting, 
cooking,  washing,  ironing,  mending,  etc.,  with  only  two  to  provide 
food  and  clothing  for,  need  to  fatigue  so  much ;  think  she  must  be  a 
poor  manager ;  your  mother  did  all  her  work,  and  never  complained 
of  being  tired ;  and  with  a  good  girl,  the  work  in  such  a  small  family 
ought  to  go  on  as  smooth  as  oil.     You  forget  that  the  duties  she 
owes  to  society  take  more  time  than  in  your  mother's  day;   that 
servants  do  better  with  an  eye  on  them,  and  are  often  almost  worse 
than  no  help.     You  forget  how  often  her  head  aches,  for  want  of 
the  walk  or  ride,  to  which  she  was  accustomed  at  her  father's,  and 
how  cheerfully   she  submits  to  your  circumstances,  when   perhaps 
she  never  made  her  own  bed  before  she  became  your  wife.     If  she 
has  children,  she  often  gets  no  rest  night  or  day ;  she  never  knows 
freedom  from  anxiety  and  care.   Would  you  exchange  cares  with  her  ? 
You  know  she  suffers  when  your  brow  is  clouded,  perhaps  more 
acutely  than  yourself,  and  also  bears  her  own  burdens.     Do  you 
not  feel  that  your  wife  is  under  a  species  of  obligation  to  you,  for 
furnishing  her  with  the  comforts  of  life ; '  and  do  you  not  think  you 
ought  to  be  paid  for  it,  by  a  relief,  not  only  from  hearing  of  the  petty 
home  troubles,  but  in  being  waited  on,  while  at  home,  with  anxious 
care ;  the  slippers  and  gown  ready  by  the  chair,  and  every  thing  to 
match,  that  selfish  love  would  prompt?     Do  you  think  it  necessary, 
when  only  wife  is  there,  to  be  entertaining,  or  is  the  newspaper  of 
more  interest  than  her  conversation  ?    Do  you  know  that  these  trifles 
make  up  a  woman's  life,  and  that  you  are  adding  drop  by  drop  to  the 


CHAPTER  TO  HUSBANDS EXCUSE  FOR  HOUSEKEEPERS.    31 

cup  of  care,  which  is  fast  robbing  her  cheek  of  bloom,  and  hastening 
her  departure  to  the  land  where  the  "  weary  soul  finds  rest "  ? 

This  chapter  is  intended  for  the  affectionate  husband,  one  that 
the  world  calls  perfect,  in  this  relation ;  not  for  brutes,  who  care  only 
for  themselves  without  regard  to  others.  "Woman's  nature  is  delicate, 
and  easily  chilled ;  many  a  husband  will  be  called  upon  to  answer  for 
a  broken  heart,  and  untimely  death,  who  never  dreamed  of  unkind- 
ness  or  neglect.  Treat  your  wife  with  the  same  politeness  you 
would  were  you  not  married  to  her.  Too  many,  in  public  and  pri- 
vate, are  polite  to  every  one  but  their  wife ;  this  is  wrong,  and  a 
sensitive  lady  feels  it  sadly.  You  should  not  deceive  your  wife  in 
regard  to  your  income ;  if  sufficient  to  allow  her  luxuries,  help,  etc., 
she  should  know  it ;  if  economy  is  necessary,  she  should  practise  it :  if 
once  deceived,  and  trouble  comes,  she  will  be  constantly  on  the  look 
out  for  it.  In  short,  be  her  companion  in  all  things,  and  let  the 
union  betwen  you  be  perfect  in  every  sense.  As  you  desire  her  to 
please  you,  so  should  you  cultivate  that  which  is  pleasing  to  her ; 
never  expecting  the  perfection  in  a  wife,  which  you  know  she  will 
not  find  in  you.  There  are  too  often  good  excuses  for  failures  in  cook- 
ing, unknown  to  you.  The  cook-stove  may  be  new,  and  as  yet  un- 
tested, or  it  may  prove  a  poor  baker,  either  drying  or  burning  every 
thing  that  goes  into  the  oven.  Company  may  unavoidably  detain  the 
housekeeper  so  long,  that  the  intended  dessert  cannot  be  prepared.  A 
new  dish  may  fail  through  a  defect  in  the  recipe,  and  in  many  other 
ways  the  best  efforts  of  the  housekeeper,  especially  the  young,  may 
fail.  Learn  to  bear  those  petty  trials,  not  like  a  martyr,  but  receive 
with  grace  and  good  nature  all  reasonable  excuses,  or  your  young 
wife  will  become  discouraged,  and  fail  to  become  what  you  so  much 
desire — a  finished  housekeeper. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

ADYICE    TO    SERVANTS. 

A  housekeeper  should  possess  decision  of  character,  good  temper, 
energy,  system,  neatness;  with  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  different 
branches  of  housekeeping  generally ;  sufficient  education  to  enable  her  to 
keep  accounts  accurately,  and  should  understand  enough  of  the  usages  of 
society,  to  know  how  to  order,  without  confusion,  the  daily  routine  of  a 


32 

genteel  family.  She  is  expected  to  look  after  all  the  female  servants  in 
the  house,  to  know  that  they  understand  their  duties,  and  discharge 
them  faithfully  ;  that  nothing  is  wasted,  or  destroyed  by  carelessness 
or  neglect.  She  takes  charge  of  the  store-room ;  gives  out  the  supplies 
to  the  cook,  sees  that  she  wastes  nothing ;  looks  over  the  linen,  and 
removes  the  stains  before  giving  the  soiled  clothing  to  the  laundry- 
maid;  examines  and  lays  away  the  linen  after  ironing,  mending  all 
that  requires  it ;  looks  after  the  furniture  ;  counts  and  takes  the  charge 
of  the  silver;  if  there  is  no  butler,  does  the  marketing;  keeps  the 
family  accounts ;  etc.  It  is  usually  her  duty  to  attend  to  the  curing 
of  the  meats ;  the  preserving  of  fruits  for  winter  use  ;  the  preparation 
of  the  sweetmeats,  pickles,  catsups,  confectionaries,  etc. ;  to  see  that 
the  table  is  well  laid,  and  the  dessert  arranged  to  send  in  at  the  proper 
time.  She  should  show  herself  willing  to  be  directed,  and  anxious  to 
please  the  family.  In  giving  orders,  she  should  be  mild,  but  firm, 
never  passing  over  wilful  neglect,  or  any  misbehavior ;  she  should 
show  no  partiality  in  the  kitchen,  treating  all  with  kindness,  yet  re- 
quiring a  strict  fulfilment  on  the  part  of  each  servant  of  her  respective 
duties.  She  should  feel  the  same  interest  for  her  employers,  that  she 
would  for  herself,  and  consider  that  she  is  responsible  for  all  under  her. 

Duties  of  the  Cooe:. — A  first-rate  cook  should  understand  the  art 
of  dressing  meat  in  every  manner,  the  cooking  of  vegetables,  prep- 
arations of  desserts,  etc. ;  should  be  energetic,  prompt,  orderly,  and, 
above  all,  neat  with  her  cooking,  as  well  as  in  her  person  and  kitchen. 
If  she  has  no  assistant,  which  is  often  the  case,  in  moderate  families,  she 
should  so  plan  her  work  that  the  vegetables  are  ready  in  time  to  be 
dished  with  the  meat,  that  the  one  may  not  be  spoiled,  waiting  for 
the  other.  She  should  keep  the  kitchen  clock  full  up  to  the  town 
time,  and  never  keep  the  gentlemen  waiting  for  dinner  one  moment. 
In  the  morning,  she  should  be  the  first  person  astir  in  the  house,  and 
unless  she  has  a  scullion  or  chore-boy  to  do  it  for  her,  clean  her  grate 
or  stove  thoroughly,  make  the  fire,  sweep  and  dust  her  kitchen,  and 
wipe  off  the  stove ;  while  the  fire  is  kindling,  should  go  to  her 
room,  wash,  arrange  her  hair,  and  dress  neatly,  and  then  proceed 
with  her  breakfeast.  No  cook  should  allow  herself  ever  to  dress  her 
hair  in  the  dress  she  is  to  wear  about  her  cooking,  as  there  is  always 
danger  of  loose  hair  hanging  to  the  dress.  "While  the  family  are  at 
breakfeast,  she  should  wash  all  the  dishes  and  kettles  soiled  in  the 
preparations  for  breakfeast.  If  fowls  are  to  be  dressed  for  dinner, 
they  should  be  killed,  or  any  other  preparations  for  dinner  may  be 


ADVICE    TO    SERVANTS.  66 

commenced.  If  any  thing  is  needed  for  the  kitchen,  and  there  is  no 
housekeeper,  make  a  list  of  the  articles  and  send  them  to  the  lady  of 
the  house,  before  the  master  goes  out,  that  he  may  order  them  sent 
home.  Examine  the  meats  on  hand  ;  if  there  is  danger  of  loss  from 
longer  keeping,  either  lay  it  in  brine,  or  contrive  some  method  to 
cook  it.  See  that  flies  do  not  get  to  the  fresh  meat ;  if  it  is  already 
blown,  cut  the  part  off  without  delay.  In  dishing  dinner,  serve  first 
such  things  as  will  injure  the  least  by  standing  in  the  oven  to  keep  hot, 
and  last  that  which  should  be  eaten  as  soon  as  served ;  if  many  dishes 
are  in  progress,  she  cannot  dish  the  whole  dinner  herself,  without  the 
danger  of  spoiling  some ;  therefore  some  person  should  assist  her  in 
this.  The  most  important  dishes,  making  of  gravies,  etc.,  she  should 
take  wholly  upon  herself,  and  not  allow  a  dish  sent  to  the  table  with- 
out inspection.  The  platters  and  covered  dishes  should  be  heated, 
ready,  so  that  there  will  be  no  confusion  attending  the  serving  of  the 
viands.  Each  dish  should  be  wiped,  with  a  clean  towel,  before  send- 
ing it  to  the  table,  or  spatters  of  gravy,  butter,  etc.,  will  give  the 
whole  an  untidy  look. 

A  cook  is  often  nervous,  especially  when  dishing  dinner;  this  is  a 
serious  failing,  and  can  be  overcome  with  watchfulness  and  system 
combined ;  the  trouble  generally  is,  she  either  does  not  understand 
her  duties,  lacks  system,  or  undertakes  more  than  with  the  conve- 
niences furnished  her  she  can  well  perform.  It  requires  patience  to 
overcome  difficulties  in  every  station  in  life,  and  perhaps  the  cook, 
living  as  she  does  over  a  heated  stove,  constantly  anxious  for  the  suc- 
cess of  her  dishes,  feeling  tried  with  failures  which  must  sometimes 
occur,  requires  a  double  amount  to  enable  her  to  perform  her  duties 
cheerfully,  with  comfort  to  herself  and  others.  There  is  certainly 
nothing  more  uncomfortable  in  a  family,  than  an  ill-natured  disoblig- 
ing cook,  ready  to  snap  at  every  person  coming  into  her  domain,  like 
a  cross  dog  gnawing  a  bone.  The  cook,  too,  can  destroy  and  waste 
more  than  any  other  servant  in  the  family,  unless  she  feels  the  import- 
ance of  being  faithful  in  small  things,  without  realizing  that  she  is 
failing  in  any  part  of  her  duty  to  the  family  who  employ  her,  and  would 
be  highly  offended  at  even  a  hint  of  the  fact,  when  at  the  same  time, 
did  she  realize  the  truth,  she  would  herself  be  the  first  to  correct  it.  It 
is  not  that  servants  have  no  wish  to  be  faithful,  that  they  so  often  fail, 
but  because  their  consciences  are  uneducated  in  these  respects ;  a  care- 
ful and  consistent  mistress,  who  shows  she  is  willing  to  do  her  duty 
to  her  servants,  can,  by  proper  instruction,  enlighten  them,  and  so 
impress  their  minds  with  the  importance  to  themselves,  as  well  as 
2* 


34  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

others,  of  fulfilling  their  duties  conscientiously  in  every  matter  that 
conies  within  their  province. 

Chambermaid. — The  chambermaid  is  generally  also  the  house- 
maid ;  she  is  expected  to  make  up  the  beds,  do  all  the  other  part  of 
the  chamber-work,  sweep  and  dust  the  parlors ;  wipe  the  paint,  etc. 
In  most  small  families,  where  few  servants  are  employed,  she  sets  the 
tables,  waits  at  dinner,  cleans  the  silver,  and  assists  in  the  ironing. 
"When  her  duties  are  various,  she  will  find  it  very  important  to  be  up 
in  good  season,  that  the  parlors  may  be  arranged,  before  the  family 
leave  their  rooms.  If  the  cook  or  laundrymaid  waits  at  breakfast, 
she  should,  while  this  meal  is  being  served,  air  the  chambers,  shake 
up  the  beds,  carry  down  the  slops,  and  wash  the  chamber-crockery. 
If  she  has  the  charge  of  the  dining-room,  putting  it  in  order  is  her 
first  work  after  breakfast ;  when  this  is  finished  make  up  the  beds, 
sweep  and  dust  the  chambers.  The  next  thing  in  order  is  the  sweep- 
ing and  dusting  of  hall  and  stairs ;  and  lastly,  the  porch  or  portico. 
After  this,  a  pail  of  clean  suds  should  be  prepared,  and  every  spot  of 
soil  on  the  paint  be  removed,  wiping  each  place  wet  with  the  suds, 
with  a  soft  dry  cloth.  If  any  spots  are  to  be  seen  on  the  carpets,  let 
them  be  rubbed  out ;  and  if  the  windows  are  dusty,  or  fly-specked, 
cleanse  them.  {See  House-cleaning.)  If  it  is  her  duty  to  wait  at 
dinner,  she  should  change  her  dress,  after  arranging  her  hair,  etc. ; 
putting  on  a  neat  print,  with  a  white  apron  :  nothing  looks  more  silly 
than  a  table-waiter  decked  in  finery.  A  chambermaid  should  particu- 
larly guard  against  curiosity ;  never  meddling  with  any  thing  belong- 
ing to  ladies  occupying  the  chambers,  or  using  their  combs,  etc.  The 
dress  of  a  chambermaid  should  never  look  soiled ;  as  her  work  is  neat, 
there  is  no  excuse  for  a  slovenly  appearance.  Particular  directions 
on  the  care  of  chambers  will  be  found  in  another  part  of  this  work. 

Laundrymaid. — Directions  for  washing  are  contained  in  another 
chapter  of  this  work ;  but  a  few  hints  farther  on  this  subject,  may 
not  be  deemed  superfluous.  The  laundrymaid  will  do  well  to  bring 
in,  the  evening  before  washing,  as  much  water  as  her  extra  tubs, 
etc.,  will  conveniently  contain.  She  should  know  that  all  her  wash- 
ing apparatus  is  in  order ;  that  she  has  in  the  house,  soap,  starch,  in- 
digo, or  whatever  she  may  need  on  the  morrow.  She  should  rise 
very  early  to  enable  her,  in  winter,  to  dry  the  linen  the  same  day 
it  is  washed ;  and,  in  summer,  to  secure  the  cool  of  the  morning  for 
the  most  fatiguing  part  of  the  work.  The  clothes  should  be  hung  up 
systematically  on  the  line,  the  shirts  and  articles  to  starch  by  them- 


ADVICE    TO    SERVANTS.  35 

selves  so  that,  when  taken  down,  the  folding  can  be  done  withont 
handling  them  twice.  If  any  part  of  the  linen  is  necessarily  hung  in  an 
exposed  part  of  the  yard,  let  the  table  and  bed  linen  be  selected  to 
occupy  that  part  of  the  line.  As  fast  as  the  clothes  dry,  bring  them 
in,  and  lay  them  on  a  clean  table.  If  possible,  fold  as  many  of  the 
plain  clothes,  the  evening  after  washing,  as  can  be  ironed  the  next 
day.  In  ironing,  be  careful  not  to  break  buttons  or  bend  hooks.  {See 
Directions  foe  Washing,  Starching,  Ironing,  etc.) 

Nursemaid. — A  very  young  person  should  never  be  trusted  with 
the  entire  care  of  children,  especially  infants.  It  requires  more  judg- 
ment and  experience  than  they  usually  possess,  to  fill  a  place  of  such 
importance  in  the  family.  Many  children  have  been  ruined  for  life, 
by  employing  young  girls  to  take  the  charge  of  them.  A  woman 
employed  to  take  the  care  of  children,  should  be  possessed  of  good 
common  sense,  a  kind  heart,  decision  of  character,  without  being 
stern  ;  an  agreeable  countenance,  without  deformity  of  eye  or  impedi- 
ment of  speech.  She  should  be  a  person  of  known  integrity,  and 
particularly  truthful.  Her  health  should  be  robust,  particularly  if  the 
children  occupy  the  same  room  ;  expert  with  the  needle,  and  in  per- 
son scrupulously  neat  and  orderly.  It  is  the  duty  of  the  nursemaid  to 
wash,  dress,  and  feed  the  children ;  to  join  them  in  their  sports ;  amuse 
them  by  pleasant  stories ;  walk  and  ride  with  them  at  stated  times ; 
and  attend  to  all  their  habits.  A  judicious  nurse  will  not  be  governed 
by  the  children,  neither  will  she  find  it  necessary  to  resort  to  corporeal 
punishment.  She  should  carefully  avoid  irritating,  or  bringing  into 
notice  forbidden  objects ;  but  for  the  child's  sake,  should  never  give 
up  to  its  caprices.  If  the  same  nurse  has  the  charge  of  a  child  the  three 
first  years  of  its  life,  she  can  form  its  character  at  will ;  that  is,  always 
provided  her  influence  is  not  interfered  with.  If  the  nurse  is  pas- 
sionate, untruthful,  deceptive,  or  superstitious,  the  child  will  be  tainted. 
Many  a  person  suffers  through  life  from  the  superstitions  received 
from  the  nurse  in  babyhood.  She  must  carefully  watch  the  child's 
diet,  allowing  what  appears  to  agree  with  it  only.  If  teething,  the 
state  of  the  bowels  must  be  particularly  noted.  If  it  has  taken  cold, 
its  breathing  must  be  watched  with  care.  If  infectious  diseases  are 
prevalent,  the  symptoms  must  be  looked  for;  and  in  many  other  ways, 
a  good  nurse  will,  with  watchful,  zealous  care,  look  out  for  the  well- 
being  of  the  little  ones  under  her  care.     {See  Infants.) 

Maid  of  All  "Woke:. — Most  people  employ  but  one  female  assist- 
ant in  the  kitchen,  and  but  few  employ  three ;  unless  there  are  a 


36  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

number  of  small  children  who  need  the  constant  attention  of  a  nnrse. 
The  maid  of  all  work  is  expected  to  cook  plain  food  well,  the  mis- 
tress usually  preparing  desserts,  making  cakes,  sweetmeats,  pickles, 
etc. ;  she  also  expects  to  assist,  if  the  family  is  large,  on  washing  day, 
takes  care  of  the  parlors,  etc.  Unless  the  help  is  efficient,  she  expects 
to  teach  her,  and  if  the  help  is  naturally  intelligent,  she  soon  becomes 
expert  in  all  the  branches  of  housework.  Each  servant  in  the  family 
adds  to  as  well  as  performs  her  part  of  the  labor  of  the  family; 
and  in  families  where  so  much  is  to  be  done  that  each  department  re- 
quires its  especial  servant,  it  is  usually  the  case  that  the  work  for 
each  is  perhaps  harder  than  that  performed  by  the  one  assistant  in  a 
small  family,  besides  being  much  more  healthy  from  its  variety. 
It  is  much  more  fatiguing  to  be  employed  in  one  steady  routine  than 
to  work  more  hours  with  constant  change ;  no  females  show  better 
health  than  our  country  girls,  hastening  from  one  thing  to  another, 
from  morning  till  night — washing,  baking,  ironing,  etc.,  as  each 
day's  duties  come  around.  Every  effort  should  be  made  to  lighten 
the  kitchen  burdens :  the  wood  and  water  should  be  near ;  the  kitchen 
and  dining-room,  if  possible,  should  be  on  the  same  floor  with  the 
cellar.  Punctuality  in  meals  is  highly  important,  and  where  three 
meals  are  prepared,  an  early  breakfast  is  a  great  lift  to  a  day's 
work.  The  maid  should  learn  to  save  steps.  When  clearing  and  set- 
ting table,  use  a  small  waiter  to  carry  the  articles  needed,  instead  of 
taking  one  thing  at  a  time.  Sheets  can  be  nicely  pressed  by  laying 
them  under  the  ironing  sheet  while  doing  the  other  part  of  the  iron- 
ing ;  and  in  many  ways  steps  can  be  saved  and  fatigue  avoided  while 
performing  the  labor  fully  as  well.  The  situation  of  maid  of  all  wort 
is  more  pleasant,  in  one  respect,  in  the  family  than  that  of  cook, 
chambermaid,  etc.,  in  large  families;  she  is  by  herself,  and  not 
troubled  by  the  petty  quarrels  which  are  almost  always  occurring  be- 
tween servants  of  the  same  household.  When  her  day's  work  is  over 
she  has  nothing  to  trouble  her ;  she  can  sew,  read,  or  in  some  other 
pleasant  manner  spend  -fter  evenings;  while  usually  where  a  numbed 
fill  the  kitchen,  the  time,  if  not  wickedly  spent,  is  foolishly  wasted. 

Deess  of  Servants  generally.— Never  ape  those  who 
you.     You  are  much  more  respectable  in  a  plain  dress  tha^ 
in  silks.     A  plain  but  neat  dress  would  become  you  mr  j. 

showy  finery ;  but,  however  you  may  choose  to  dre^  .wing 

out,  never  appear  about  your  work  in  any  thing  the  lea&  ^proach- 
ing  to  finery ;  let  your  hair  be  always  smooth,  and  your  dress  neatly 


ADVICE    TO    SERVANTS. 


37 


fitted  and  well  made,  of  a  material  that  will  wash  without  injury. 
When  waiting  at  table,  ironing,  or  baking,  a  white  apron  looks  both 
neat  and  becoming.  Always  have  a  neat  sun-bonnet  to  wear  when 
doing  the  errands  of  the  house  ;  keep  your  feet  neat,  wear  light  shoes 
in  the  dry  season,  but  guard  against  wetting  your  feet  washing  days. 
Bathe  your  person  often,  particularly  the  feet ;  being  over  the  stove 
heat  so  much  as  is  necessary  for  you  in  your  several  duties,  occasions 
your  feet  to  perspire  so  much  as  often  to  make  you  disagreeable. 
India-rubbers,  too,  have  the  same  effect  if  constantly  worn,  and  are 
very  unhealthy. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 

CAEVING. 

Butchers  divide  a  bullock  into  eighteen  different  parts.  Sirloin, 
which  is  the  best  part  of  the  animal,  extending  from  the  rump  to  the 
fore  ribs  ;  rump,  which  lies  back  of  the  sirloin ;  fore  ribs,  between  the 
sirloin  and  middle  ribs  ;  middle  ribs,  between  the  fore  ribs  and  chuck 
ribs ;  chuck  ribs,  between  the  middle  ribs  and  sticking  place  ;  stick- 
ing place,  between  the  chuck  ribs  and  cheek ;  thin  flanks,  the  belly 
under  the  sirloin ;  brisket,  under  belly,  below  the  ribs ;  edge  bone, 
under  the  rump ;  buttock,  under  the  edge  bone ;  mouse  buttock, 
under  the  buttock,  being  part  front  of  edge  bone  and  buttock,  and 
back  of  the  thin  flanks ;  leg  of  mutton  piece,  on  the  fore  shoulder, 
between  the  chuck  ribs  and  shin ;  shin,  the  lower  part  of  the  fore- 
leg ;  leg,  the  lower  part  of  the  hind-leg ;  cheek  clod,  on  the  breast 
below  the  sticking  place  ;  thick  flank,  the  front  and  upper  part  of  the 
hind-leg.  Besides  these  parts,  there  is  the  heart,  the  liver,  tongue, 
palate,  sweetbreads,  kidneys,  skirts,  and  tripe.  The  tripe  is  the  pre- 
pared stomach.  The  sweeetbreads  are  situated  between  the  bottom 
:>f  the  stomach  and  vertebrae  of  the  loins,  extending  from  the  liver  to 
-n.  The  skirt  is  the  respiratory  muscle  which  divides  the 
to  two  cavities :  the  thorax  and  the  abdomen, 
est  roasts  and  steaks  come  from  the  sirloin.  The  best  slices 
ear  the  ribs,  extending  from  five  to  eight  inches  on  the  side 
(  ef.     These  steaks  are  called  "  Porter-house  steaks."     Next 

t.  r-house  comes  sirloin.     The  whole  ham  is  used  for  dried 

b  ^e  best  boiling  pieces  of  corned  beef  come  from  the  brisket. 

Good  steaks  are  also  cut  from  the  fore  shoulder.    The  best  soup  bone 


38  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

is  the  shank  of  the  hind  leg,  called  the  leg  by  butchers.  The  part 
called  the  sticking  piece,  is  usually  boiled  for  mince  pies. 

The  terms  butchers  use  in  dividing  a  calf  are,  loin,  (kidney  end,) 
loin,  (chump  end,)  fillet,  hind  knuckle,  fore  knuckle,  neck,  (best  end,) 
scrag,  blade  bone,  breast,  brisket,  head,  pluck,  liver,  light,  or  lungs,  heart, 
sweetbreads ;  the  largest  of  which  is  called  the  throat  sweetbreads, 
and  the  smallest  the  wind-pipe  sweetbreads;  the  rennet  or  stomach,  and 
the  feet.  The  loin  chump  end  lies  from  the  end  of  the  backbone  to 
the  kidney  loin ;  next  to  this  from  the  backbone  to  the  breast,  and 
between  the  chump  loin  and  the  best  neck  end.  The  scrag  lies 
between  the  head  and  the  best  neck  piece.  The  brisket  is  below  the 
scrag  on  the  front.  The  breast  is  the  belly  ;  the  fore-knuckle  is  the 
fore  leg ;  the  hind  knuckle  is  the  hind  leg.  The  fillet  lies  between 
the  hind  knuckle  and  the  chump  loin,  and  extends  to  the  breast.  The 
feet  embrace  the  leg  to  the  knee.  The  head  embraces  the  brain  and 
tongue.  The  fillet  is  usually  stuffed  and  roasted.  The  loin,  breast  and 
shoulders  are  roasted  plain.  Pies  are  made  from  the  breast  or  neck. 
Cutlets  are  cut  from  the  fillet.  Pot-pies  are  made  from  the  neck ; 
stews  from  the  knuckle  ;  soups  from  the  feet. 

The  parts  of  a  lamb  are  fore  and  hind  quarters.  The  fore  quarter 
includes  one  shoulder,  with  half  the  neck  and  breast,  and  the  hind 
quarter  consists  of  one  leg,  and  half  the  loin.  A  leg  of  lamb  is  usur 
ally  boiled,  also  the  shoulder.     Whole  quarters  are  roasted. 

Mutton  is  cut  up  by  the  butchers  into  the  leg,  loin,  (best  end,) 
chump  end  of  loin,  neck,  (best  end,)  scrag,  shoulder,  breast.  The  leg 
is  boiled  ;  also  the  neck.  The  shoulder  is  stewed.  The  two  loins  are 
roasted  together,  and  are  called  a  saddle  of  mutton. 

The  butchers  divide  the  hog  into  the  spare  rib.  It  lies  between 
the  head  and  fore-loin,  and  is  usually  roasted.  The  hands  are  the  fore 
shoulders ;  the  spring  is  the  belly,  the  legs  or  hams,  the  fore  and  hind 
loin,  between  the  leg  and  spare  rib.  The  leg  is  boiled  or  roasted ; 
when  salted  is  called  a  ham.  A  hand  is  usually  fried,  and  when  salted 
is  called  a  shoulder.  The  belly  pieces  and  loins  are  fried  or  baked ; 
when  salted,  the  bones  should  be  removed.  The  head  and  feet  are 
best  boiled  for  souse  or  head-cheese.  The  tenderloin  makes  the  best 
steak. 

Directions  to  Carve  a  Roast  of  Beef. — The  knife  should  be  of 
good  steel,  and  sharp,  and  not  too  heavy.  A  large  heavy-handled 
carving-knife  is  very  awkward  to  manage.  The  platter  containing 
the  beef  should  be  near  the  carver,  that  he  may  not  be  obliged  to 


CARVING.  39 

reach  over  the  table.  His  seat  should  be  high,  or  if  not,  he  may  be 
allowed  to  stand  while  carving.  In  a  sirloin  of  beef,  cut  the  out- 
side pieces  thin,  lengthwise  of  the  bone,  drawing  the  knife  through 
with  a  quick  movement,  and  laying  them  in  order  on  the  platter,  until 
there  are  as  many  slices  cut  as  there  are  persons  to  be  helped.  Now 
cut  the  inside  meat  in  the  opposite  direction,  cutting  across  the  bonej 
laying  the  slices,  which  should  be  very  thin,  in  order  by  themselves. 
"When  filling  the  plates,  give  each  person  an  outside  and  inside  piece, 
that  the  beef  may  be  equally  enjoyed  by  all,  but  do  not  overload  the 
plates,  nothing  destroys  a  delicate  appetite  sooner  than  an  overloaded 
plate.     If  the  slices  are  large,  divide  them. 

To  Carve  a  Leg  of  Mutton. — Lay  the  joint  back  down ;  cut  the 
first  slice  across  the  lower  part,  about  one-fourth  of  the  distance  be- 
tween the  knuckle  and  cramp  bone.  Cut  the  slices  towards  the 
thickest  part,  until  it  is  sliced  to  the  bone.  Then  cut  the  thin  part 
near  the  thickest  part  until  it  is  sliced  to  the  bone.  Then  cut  the 
part  near  the  knuckle  lengthwise.  The  best  pieces  are  in  the  thickest 
part  of  the  leg,  but  those  near  the  knuckle  are  miserable  cold.  If  any 
is  left,  let  it  be  the  thickest  and  best  part. 

To  Carve  a  Haunch  of  Venison. — Place  the  joint  lengthwise  on 
the  platter,  bringing  the  thickest  part  nearest  the  carver.  Make  the 
first  cut  to  the  bone  across  the  haunch,  about  one-fourth  of  the  dis- 
tance between  the  knuckle-bone,  and  the  extreme  end  of  the  haunch ; 
then  cut  slices  lengthwise  from  the  first  cut  to  the  bone  at  the  oppo- 
site end.     A  haunch  of  mutton  is  carved  in  the  same  manner. 

To  Carve  a  Saddle  of  Mutton. — Cut  the  slices  lengthwise  from 
end  to  end  on  each  of  the  back-bones.  If  too  large,  divide  them,  and 
give  each  person  a  bit  of  fat  from  the  sides. 

To  Carve  a  Loin  of  Veal. — Carve  exactly  as  you  would  a  sirloin 
of  beef,  except  this  :  the  carver  turns  over  the  loin,  and  removes  both 
kidney  and  fat,  before  cutting  any  slices.  These  are  helped  with  the 
veal. 

To  Carve  a  Shoulder  of  Mutton. — Lay  the  joint  on  the  platter, 
with  the  back  uppermost.  Cut  the  leanest  parts  to  the  bone  across 
the  joint.  The  most  delicate  slices  are  cut  each  side  of  the  blade- 
bone.  The  most  tender  of  the  meat  is  under  the  blade-bone,  and  the 
best  fat  lies  at  the  under  part  of  the- thick  end.  A  shoulder  of  veal 
is  managed  much  as  a  shoulder  of  mutton. 


40  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

To  Carve  a  Fillet  of  Veal. — Give  to  each  person  a  thin  slice 
cut  through,  with  the  dressing  and  some  of  the  outside. 

To  Carve  a  Breast  of  Yeal. — The  ribs  should  be  separated 
from  the  brisket.  Cut  the  small  bones  and  serve  them,  divide  the 
long  ribs,  and  help  to  suit  the  different  individuals  at  the  table. 

To  Carve  a  Leo  of  Lamb. — Carve  as  a  leg  of  mutton.  Lay  it 
in  the  platter  back  down. 

To  Carve  a  Foee  Quarter  of  Lamb. — The  cook  should  cut  round 
the  shoulder,  and  lift  the  meat  without  marring  the  joint ;  and  crowd 
in  between  the  ribs  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and,  if  relished,  lemon  juice; 
then  replace  the  shoulder ;  put  a  ruffle  of  paper  on  the  joint,  lay  it  on 
a  clean  dish,  and  send  it  to  the  table.  It  is  first  cut  similar  to  a  shoulder 
of  mutton ;  then  the  neck  is  separated  from  the  ribs,  and  served  ac- 
cording to  choice. 

To  Caeve  a  Ham. — Lay  the  back  up  ;  cut  slices  as  thin  as  possible 
near  the  middle  of  the  ham  to  the  bone ;  and  also  near  the  thin  end 
of  the  ham.     Help  a  bit  of  lean  and  fat  together. 

To  Carve  a  Boiled  Calf's  Head. — Calf's  head  consists  of  a 
number  of  choice  parts ;  which  should  be  divided  so  that  each  person 
may  have  a  share.  The  sweetbread  lies  at  the  fleshy  part  of  the  neck- 
end.  Cut  slices  across  the  cheeks  to  the  bone  lengthwise.  Eemove 
the  eye  with  the  point  of  the  Jmife  from  the  socket ;  divide  it  and 
help  those  with  it  who  prefer  it.  Eemove  the  jaw-bone  and  carve 
the  lean  meat  under  it.  The  palate  lies  under  the  head,  and  by  some  is 
much  esteemed.    Divide  the  parts,  giving  every  person  some  of  each. 

To  Carve  a  Tongue. — The  best  slices  are  midway  between  the 
root  and  the  tip  of  the  tongue.  Cut  the  tongue  through,  dividing  it, 
and  slice  quite  thin ;  help  those  who  desire  them,  to  the  fat  and 
kernels. 

To  Carve  a  Eoast  Pig. — If  the  pig  is  served  whole  at  the  table, 
the  carver  first  removes  the  head,  striking  the  neck  joint ;  this  is 
laid  on  a  plate,  and  divided  for  those  who  prefer  that  part  of  the  pig. 
It  is  then  laid  open  at  the  back-bone  from  neck  to  tail,  and  laid  crack- 
ling side  down.  After  this  is  done,  divide  the  ribs,  and  serve  a  part 
of  the  crackling  and  dressing  to  each  person.  If  the  pig  is  partly 
carved  by  the  cook,  the  carver  may  finish  as  already  directed, 


CARVING.  41 

To  Carve  a  Fowl. — Place  the  fork  firmly  into  the  thick  part  of 
the  breast ;  take  slices  from  each  side  of  the  breast-bone,  extending 
the  whole  length  of  the  fowl ;  joint  and  remove  the  wings,  and  divide 
them  at  the  first  joint.  Divide  the  ligaments  of  the  legs,  and  twist 
them  out  of  their  sockets,  and  separate  them  at  the  first  joint.  Now 
enter  the  point  of  the  knife  at  the  breast  in  the  direction  of  the  merry- 
thought or  wish-bone,  which  is  displaced  by  lifting  the  bone,  and 
pressing  backward.  The  collar-bones,  which  lie  on  each  side  of  the 
merry-thought,  must  now  be  lifted  up  by  the  knife,  at  the  broad  end, 
and  forced  towards  the  breast-bone,  until  the  part  to  which  they  are 
fastened,  breaks  off;  cut  through  the  ribs  on  each  side,  and  remove 
the  breast.  •  Now  turn  up  the  back-bone,  and  press  the  knife  firmly 
across  it  near  the  middle,  lifting  the  lower  end  at  the  same  time  with 
the  fork,  until  the  bone  gives  way ;  then  turn  the  lower  end  of  the 
back  from  the  carver,  and  remove  the  bones  from  each  side ;  this 
is  easily  done  by  placing  the  point  of  the  knife  on  the  place  where 
the  side  bones  are  joined  to  the  vertebrae.  There  is  much  choice  in 
the  parts  of  a  fowl :  the  white  meat  being  esteemed  the  most  deli- 
cate ;  some,  however,  prefer  the  dark  meat.  The  drum-stick  is  the 
coarsest  part  of  the  fowl.  Duck  is  carved  in  the  same  manner,  as  also 
prairie-hens. 

To  Carve  a  Turkey  or  Goose. — The  art  of  carving  these  consists 
in  cutting  as  many  slices  as  possible  from  them  without  cutting  up  the 
carcass.  The  wings  and  legs  are  removed  in  the  same  manner  as 
fowls.  "When  the  carcass  is  divided,  proceed  as  directed  in  carving 
fowls.  Pheasants  are  carved  like  a  turkey ;  cut  as  many  slices  from 
the  breast  as  possible. 

Partridges  are  carved  like  a  common  fowl ;  though  the  merry- 
thought is  never  removed  unless  the  bird  is  unusually  large. 

To  Carve  Pigeons  and  Quails. — All  birds  of  this  size  are  divided 
in  the  middle  of  the  back.    Blackbirds  are  served  whole. 

To  Carve  a  Hare  or  Eabbit. — In  this  country  the  hare  is  seldom 
served ;  it  is  carved  the  same  as  a  rabbit.  Enter  the  knife  at  the 
shoulder  on  each  side  of  the  back-bone,  and  cut  lengthwise  the  whole 
length  of  the  animal,  dividing  it  in  three  different  parts ;  then  divide 
the  back-bone  of  a  rabbit  into  two  and  that  of  a  hare  into  four  parts. 
The  back  and  legs  of  a  hare  are  the  best  parts,  although  the  shoulders 
are  much  prized  by  some.    The  best  parts  of  a  rabbit  are  the  back 


42  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

and  legs.    Some  prefer  removing  the  head  of  a  rabbit  before  sending 
it  to  the  table. 

To  Carve  Fisn. — To  carve  fish  well  a  fish-trowel  is  very  necessary, 
as  with  this  instrument  they  may  be  carved  without  breaking  the 
flakes. 

To  Carve  a  Cod's  Head. — Cut  slices  from  the  fish  through  the 
back,  reaching  half  down  the  sides.  Commence  to  cut  the  slices  some 
few  inches  from  the  head,  and  serve  with  them  a  part  of  the  sound, 
which  lies  under  the  back-bone,  and  lines  it.  The  most  of  the  head 
is  considered  very  fine.  The  palate  and  soft  part  about  the  jaw-bone 
are  much  esteemed. 

To  Carve  Salmon. — Cut  salmon  lengthwise,  as  also  all  other 
short-grained  fish.  In  serving  this  fish,  do  not  help  one  person  to  the 
thick  and  another  to  the  thin  part,  but  divide  the  two  parts  equally. 

To  Carve  Haddock. — This  is  a  long-grained  fish,  and  the  slices 
should  be  cut  round  the  body. 

To  Serve  Mackerel. — Cut  slices  of  this  lengthwise,  from  the  head 
to  the  tail. 

To  Serve  a  Baked  Fish. — If  the  grain  is  coarse,  pass  the  fish- 
trowel  through,  taking  round  slices  with  the  dressing.  If  fine- 
grained fish,  cut  them  the  other  way,  and  serve  some  of  the  dressing 
with  it. 

Turbot. — Enter  the  fish-trowel  at  the  head,  and  press  it  along  the 
back-bone  the  whole  length  of  the  fish.  Slices  may  then  be  served 
from  the  back-bone  to  the  fins  on  both  sides,  those  nearest  the  centre 
being  most  prized.  When  the  upper  side  is  served,  lift  the  back-bone 
with  the  fork,  and  divide  the  lower  part  in  the  same  manner.  The 
fins  are  considered  the  most  delicate,  a  portion  of  which  should  be 
served  with  the  other  part  of  the  fish. 

To  Serve  Eels. — These  are  cut  into  pieces  through  the  bone; 
the  middle  slices  are  the  choice  bits. 

Pan  Fisn. — If  very  small,  they  are  served  whole ;  if  large,  they  are 
cut  in  pieces  by  the  cook  before  frying. 

To  Serve  Soup. — If  soup  is  served  for  a  first  course  by  the  carver, 
he  should  pour  but  one  ladlefull  into  a  plate.  Persons  are  often 
overtaxed  to  get  rid  of  the  contents  of  their  soup-plate. 


PART  II. 

NUTRITION.— ELEMENTS  OF  FOOD.—MARKETING. 


CHAPTER  I. 

NUTKITIOtf. 


Nutbition  consists  in  the  process  by  which  food,  taken  into  the 
stomach,  is  changed  and  prepared  to  repair  the  natural  loss  of  the 
system.  The  first  change  is  produced  by  a  substance  or  juice,  un- 
like any  other,  placed  in  the  stomach  of  each  animal  by  the  All-TVise. 
It  is  called  Gastric  Juice,  and  is  said  to  consist  of  hydrochloric  acid, 
gastric  mucus,  and  water.  It  is  very  powerful,  reducing  all  sub- 
stances capable  of  digestion  to  a  uniform  paste  of  a  grayish  color, 
called  Chyme,  which,  passing  into  other  organs,  meets  Bile,  Pan- 
creatic Juice,  and  other  acids,  and  changes  to  a  milky  substance 
called  Chyle,  which,  in  its  turn,  being  taken  up  by  minute  vessels  called 
Lacteals,  goes  through  another  transformation,  until  it  finally  reaches 
and  is  united  with  the  blood,  and  by  it  is  carried  to  every  part  of  the 
body,  thoroughly  renovating  the  system  in  its  course.  It  is  a  well- 
known  fact,  that  the  animal  system  experiences  a  daily  waste ;  but 
few  are  aware  to  how  great  an  extent  it  may  be  said  we  decay  to 
exist.  It  is  thought  we  so  entirely  change,  that  in  a  few  years 
every  part  of  the  original  matter  composing  our  body  is  consumed, 
its  place  being  occupied  by  entirely  new  formations.  This  constant 
loss  must  be  supplied  by  elements  similar  to  those  already  exhausted, 
or  wearied  nature,  unable  to  do  its  appointed  work,  retires  in  dis- 
gust, leaving  premature  age,  or  death,  master  of  the  field.  There  is 
a  continual  war  between  the  oxygen  of  the  air  and  the  body ;  every 
breath  we  breathe,  or  muscle  we  exert,  a  portion  of  our  blood  is  used 


44  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

up  by  this  oxygen.  It  does  not,  however  thus  exhaust  without  a 
return :  it"  is  by  this  battle  between  the  oxygen  of  the  air  and  the 
carbon  of  the  blood,  that  animal  heat  is  evolved ;  when  this  ceases 
entirely,  death  is  sure  to  be  the  result.  This  it  is  that  kills  the  frozen 
man ;  as  long  as  any  carbon  remains  in  the  system,  heat  will  certainly 
be  evolved.  A  man  with  a  hearty  breakfast  can  much  better  with- 
stand the  piercing  blasts  of  winter  than  one  with  his  stomach  empty. 
The  oxygen,  in  the  case  of  a  freezing  man,  first  consumes  the  fat, 
then  the  lean,  and  lastly  the  brain ;  when  all  the  carbon  is  destroyed, 
or  consumed,  the  body  soon  sinks  to  the  temperature  of  the  atmos- 
phere, and  death  ends  the  strife.  In  the  words  of  Liebig,  "  the  animal 
body  acts  as  a  furnace,  which  we  supply  with  fuel.  It  signifies 
nothing  what  intermediate  forms  food  may  assume,  what  changes  it 
may  undergo  in  the  body,  the  last  change  is,  uniformly,  the  con- 
version of  its  carbon  into  carbonic  acid,  and  of  its  hydrogen  into 
water ;  the  unassimilated  nitrogen  of  the  food,  along  with  the  un- 
burned,  or  unoxidized  carbon,  is  expelled  in  the  urine,  or  in  the  solid 
excrements.  In  order  to  keep  up  in  the  furnace  a  constant  tempera- 
ture, we  must  vary  the  supply  of  fuel,  according  to  the  external 
temperature — that  is,  according  to  the  supply  of  oxygen.  In  the 
animal  body,  the  food  is  the  fuel :  with  a  proper  supply  of  oxygen,  we 
obtain  the  heat  given  out  during  its  oxidation  or  combustion.  In 
winter,  when  we  take  exercise  in  a  cold  atmosphere,  and  when,  con- 
sequently, the  amount  of  inspired  oxygen  increases,  the  necessity  for 
food  containing  carbon  increases  in  the  same  ratio ;  and  by  gratify- 
ing the  appetite  thus  excited,  we  obtain  the  most  efficient  protection 
against  the  most  piercing  cold.  A  starving  man  is  soon  frozen  to  death ; 
and  every  one  knows  that  the  animals  of  prey,  in  the  arctic  regions, 
far  exceed  in  voracity  those  of  the  torrid  zone.  In  cold  and  tem- 
perate climates,  the  air,  which  incessantly  strives  to  consume  the 
body,  urges  man  to  laborious  efforts,  in  order  to  furnish  the  means 
of  resistance  to  its  action ;  while,  in  hot  climates,  the  necessity  of 
labor  to  provide  food  is  far  less  urgent."  "According  to  the  preced- 
ing exposition,  the  quantity  of  food  is  regulated  by  the  number  of 
respirations,  by  the  temperature  of  the  air,  and  by  the  amount  of 
heat  given  off  to  the  surrounding  medium." — See  Liebig's  Animal 
Chemistry,  p.  16.  But  heat  is  not  all  that  is  wanting  to  repair  the 
wastes  of  the  system;  we  need  food,  not  only  to  create  heat  for 
warmth,  but  to  renew  the  wastes  of  the  body  caused  by  the  labor  of 
each  day.  The  food  best  adapted  to  give  strength  furnishes  the  least 
heat,  and  that  which  the  soonest  furnishes  heat  strengthens  the 


NUTRITION.  45 

least.  Blood  is  the  same  heat  at  the  frigid  zone  as  the  torrid.  The 
same  proportion  of  the  heat-giving  properties  united  with  the  oxygen, 
is  necessary  for  all  climes.  The  more  oxygen  we  inhale,  the  more 
food  is  needed ;  the  warmer  we  dress,  the  less  heat  does  our  body 
give  off  to  surrounding  objects.  The  blood  flows  through  the  lungs 
at  the  rate  of  fifteen  hundred  pounds  every  hour,  or  twenty-five 
pounds  each  minute.  It  meets  there  the  air,  takes  up  its  oxygen, 
and  rushes  on  its  way,  carrying  and  equally  distributing  warmth  to 
every  part  of  the  body.  But  although,  as  has  been  stated,  the  gas- 
tric juice  is  capable  of  reducing  to  paste,  and  the  other  juices  to 
blood,  every  digestible  article  taken  into  the  stomach,  it  is  not  capable 
of  converting  the  properties  of  any  food  to  the  properties  of  any 
other.  It  cannot  make  fibre-creating  substances  heat-giving,  or 
heat-giving  fibrous.  It  cannot  change  poison  to  healthy  nutriment, 
or  make  healthy  food  injurious.  Our  stomachs  have  not  the  power  to 
choose  what  shall  flow  through  the  veins  of  our  body,  and  what  shall 
be  discarded.  Many  imagine,  if  food  digests,  it  is  all  that  is  needed 
to  produce  the  desired  result ;  when  often  the  food  is  of  such  a  na- 
ture as  to  seriously  inconvenience  the  body  for  days  and  weeks. 
The  brain  is  as  seriously  affected  by  our  method  of  living  as  any 
other  part  of  the  body.  The  irritability  of  children  often  arises  from 
improper  food,  and  many  nervous  persons  are  thus  affected  by  the 
same  cause.  The  amount  of  nourishment  absolutely  necessary  to 
sustain  in  health  the  animal  body,  is  varied,  as  has  been  seen,  by  the 
amount  of  oxygen  respired,  and  otherwise  taken  into  the  system 
through  the  pores  of  the  skin ;  more  oxygen  being  taken  into  the 
system  in  cold  weather  than  warm,  as  the  atmosphere  in  summer, 
containing  more  moisture  than  during  the  cold  of  winter,  is  received 
by  the  lungs,  filling  the  same  space  which  in  winter  is  occupied  by 
pure  air  alone.  Thus  the  amount  of  oxygen  consumed  in  cold 
weather  must  be  proportionably  greater  than  during  the  warm 
months  of  summer ;  consequently  more  nourishing  food,  rich  with 
carbon,  is  needed  during  winter  to  sustain  health  than  during  the 
warm  season.  Here  is  seen  the  wisdom  and  goodness  of  our  Creator, 
as  is  expressed  most  beautifully  by  the  Psalmist,  when  he  says  : 
"  These  all  wait  upon  thee,  that  thou  mayest  give  them  their  meat 
in  due  season."  During  the  warm  months  of  summer,  while  most 
of  the  animal  creation  are  rearing  their  young,  and  consequently  out 
of  season,  vegetables  are  in  their  prime,  affording  nearly  or  quite  all 
the  food  absolutely  essential  to  man.  Comparatively  few  of  the 
esculent  Vegetables  can  be  preserved  in  perfection  for  a  great  length 


46  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

of  time,  while  the  grains  and  a  few  seeds  most  rich  in  the  principal 
elements,  can  be  preserved,  with  proper  care,  in  any  climate,  for 
an  indefinite  period.  To  the  inhabitants  of  the  frozen  regions, 
where  vegetation  is  almost  unknown,  animal  food  is  found  to  be 
most  conducive  to  health  and  comfort,  containing  a  very  large  per- 
centage— over  sixty  per  cent. — of  carbon ;  while  the  natives  of  the 
south,  feasting  on  their  delicious  fruits,  containing  not  over  twelve  per 
cent,  of  this  heat-giving  property,  enjoy  health  and  happiness  on  a 
diet  that  would  soon  destroy  the  northerners.  Should  the  natives  of 
the  warm  regions  follow  the  example  of  travellers,  creating  artificial 
appetites  by  stimulating  condiments,  so  that  the  use  of  animal  food 
would  become  universal,  diseases  more  terrible  than  any  that  have 
yet  visited  our  globe,  would,  undoubtedly,  be  the  consequence  of  this 
transgression  of  the  laws  of  nature.  The  inhabitants  of  the  extremes 
furnish  to  us  an  example  in  respect  to  diet  it  would  be  well  to 
follow.  "We  have,  to  be  sure,  more  latitude  in  the  selection  of  food, 
yet  we  should  remember  that  our  food  is  prepared  for  us  by  the 
Almighty  with  particular  reference  to  each  season,  and  were  we 
to  follow  the  dictates  of  reason,  from  infancy  to  old  age,  all  things 
being  equal,  a  perfect  organization  of  the  body,  with  strong  nerves 
and  vigorous  intellect,  unshackeled  by  dyspeptic  hypochondria,  with 
a  healthy,  happy  old  age,  would  be  the  result.  It  is  not  only  impor- 
tant that  the  proper  food  is  chosen,  but  that  it  is  taken  at  proper 
intervals.  No  doubt  the  old  fashion  of  twelve  o'clock  dinners  is,  to 
persons  taking  exercise,  most  conducive  to  health.  If  late  dinners  are 
the  most  convenient,  lunches  should  be  taken  at  eleven  or  twelve. 
Infants  and  children  need  food  oftener  than  adults,  as  they  breathe 
oftener,  and  therefore  consume  more  oxygen  in  proportion  to  their 
size  than  adults.  Persons,  whose  respiratory  organs  are  debilitated 
by  disease,  or  are  naturally  weak,  consume  less  oxygen  than  those  of 
a  contrary  formation,  and  consequently  require  less  food  containing 
carbon. 

In  selecting  food,  avoid  too  much  sameness,  not  only  as  to  the 
articles  of  food,  but  to  the  elements  of  which  they  are  composed. 
Variety  is  necessary,  as  a  want  of  appetite  for  one  kind  of  food,  used 
constantly  for  a  length  of  time,  fully  shows ;  nature  craves,  usually, 
what  it  requires.  The  brute  creation  understand  this  law  of  the  sys- 
tem, seeking  change,  often  wandering  to  different  parts  of  the  pasture 
for  new  herbage,  eating  sand,  visiting  salt  licks,  sulphur  springs,  etc. 

The  chapter'  following  will,  we  hope,  with  what  has  already  been 
stated,  enable  the  housekeeper  wisely  to  select  such  food  as  will  best 


NUTRITION.  47 

secure  the  health  and  comfort  of  each  member  of  her  family,  accord- 
ing to  their  different  occupations,  ages,  and  state  of  health.  Food  can 
be  so  varied,  in  the  arrangement  of  the  several  courses,  as  to  furnish 
at  each  meal  all  the  essentials  needed  by  the  family.  But,  too  often, 
this  is  entirely  lost  sight  of,  and  the  several  dishes  served,  though 
differing  much  in  taste,  possess  in  themselves  the  same  elements,  fur- 
nishing to  the  body  but  a  small  part  of  the  food  needed  to  enable 
nature  to  carry  out  in  perfection  the  purpose  for  which  the  several 
elements  of  food  were  created. 


CHAPTER  II. 

ELEMENTS    OF    FOOD. 

It  is  as  absolutely  necessary  to  the  healthy  growth  of  vegetables 
as  animals,  that  the  waste  going  on  without  interruption  in  all  grow- 
ing vegetation  should  be  supplied  by  elements  corresponding  to  those 
constantly  exhausting ;  and  here  we  see  the  wisdom  and  goodness  of 
the  Creator  in  adapting  one  part  of  his  creation  to  meet  the  wants  of 
the  other,  having  formed  animals  and  vegetables  sufficiently  analogous 
to  possess  independently  in  themselves  all  the  nutriment  needed  for 
each  other,  except  that  to  which  each  has  access,  namely,  air  and 
water;  the  latter,  however,  is  furnished  in  some  measure  to  each  by 
the  combination  of  the  oxygen  and  hydrogen  received  with  their  ali- 
ment.    All  animal  food  is  rich  in  the  four  most  essential  elements  to 
man,  namely,  carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen,  and  nitrogen ;  it  also  con- 
tains many  other  very  important  elements  to  our  well-being;   as 
phosphorus,  sulphur,  chlorine,  potassium,  lime,  iron,  and  water,  which 
is  a  compound.     Phosphorus  is  to  be  found  in  all  animals  in  the  state 
of  phosphoric  acid.     This,  united  with  lime,  forms  the  phosphate  of 
lime,  never  absent  from  bone.     Sulphur  is  to  be  found  in  all  animal 
substances ;  it  is  this  that  in  the  egg  blackens  silver.     Chlorine  is  one 
of  the  parts  of  salt,  which  is  composed  of  chlorine  and  sodium.    Po- 
tassium is  found  in  a  very  small  degree  in  animals,  and  is  the  base  of 
potash.     Lime  united  with  phosphorus  has  been  noted.     Iron,  in  the 
state  of  oxide,  is  found  in  minute  portions  in  all  animals.     "Water, 
composed  of  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  is  found  ready  formed.     Blood 
contains  80  per  cent,  of  water,  and  flesh  75.    It  is  calculated  that  the 
human  body  makes  up  three-fourths  of  its  weight  in  water.     These 
are  called  the  elements,  and  the  four  first  named  are  the  principal, 


48  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

or  essential  elements.    The  following  are  called  the  proximate  princi- 
ples of  animals :  fibrine,  gelatine,  albumen,  oils  and  fat,  osmazome, 
casein.     Fibrine  is  the  fleshy  part  of  meat  when  freed  from  fat ;  it  is 
the  basis  of  the  meat,  and  when  boiled  only  sufficiently  long  to  become 
tender,  united  with  its  gelatine,  it  is  nutritive  and  strengthening. 
Gelatine  is  that  part  of  the  animal  which,  when  dissolved  and  ex- 
tracted by  long  boiling,  forms  a  jelly.     It  is  found  in  all  animals  in 
the  form  of  membranes  surrounding  the  fibres  of  the  muscles,  in 
bones,  arid  in  the  skin.    It  does  not  unite  with  fat,  but  causes  oil  to 
unite  with  water,  forming  a  milky  liquid.     "When  fat  rises  to  the  top 
of  soups,  it  is  because  the  soup  is  too  weak.    Albumen  is  found  the 
most  pure  in  the  white  of  egg.    There  are  in  animals  a  solid  and 
fluid  albumen.     It  contains  carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen,  and  nitrogen. 
Oil  or  fat  consists  of  carbon  and  hydrogen,  but  little,  if  any,  nitrogen. 
Osmazome  is  procured  from  an  extract  of  meat.    It  is  this  that  gives  fla- 
vor to  roasts,  soups,  etc.     Casein  is  found  in  cui*4s  of  milk,  coagulated 
with  rennet ;  it  is  easy  of  digestion,  and  nutritious.     As  a  general 
thing,  large  animals  are  of  coarser  grain  than  small.     Young  animals 
contain  more  gluten  than  old.     This  is  the  reason  why  a  young 
chicken  boils  tender  sooner  than  an  old  hen.     The  flesh  of  the  female 
is  more  delicate  than  the  male.     Beef  are  never  considered  prime  be- 
fore they  are  six  years  old.     Each  animal,  unless  stall-fed,  is  out  of 
season  when  herbage  is  poor,  or  when  rearing  their  young.     No 
flesh  is  as  sweet  and  healthy  as  that  from  animals  fattened  on  grasses. 
The  mode  of  killing  has  a  great  influence   on  the  beef.     "What- 
ever tends  to  destroy  or  exhaust  the  irritability  of  the  muscular  fibre 
suddenly,  hastens  decay.     This  will  be  found  to  be  the  case  when 
animals  are  heated  by  exercise  just  before  killing.     Animals  should 
be  well  bled ;  they  should  be  kept  fasting  until  the  stomach  is  en- 
tirely empty  of  undigested  food.     Beef  should  fast  a  day  or  two ; 
smaller  animals  one  day.     Fowls  from  noon  until  morning,  and  others 
in  the  same  ratio.     Vegetables  contain  always  carbon,  oxygen,  hy- 
drogen, and  generally  more  or  less  nitrogen,  though  often  in  minute 
quantities.     They  also  possess  in  themselves  many  other  important 
substances  ready  formed,  called  the  proximate  principles  of  vegetables. 
Esculents  are  rich  in  the  first  five  of  these  principles,  starch,  gluten, 
albumen,  sugar,  oils,  tannin,  acids,  alkalies,  jelly,  and  many  others  not 
connected  with  our  subject.     Jelly,  as  all  housekeepers  well  know,  is 
to  be  found  in  all  fruits,  but  more  particularly  in  the  currant,  apple, 
gooseberry,  cranberry,  and  quince,  of  the  American  fruits.     Oils  are 
found  in  the  olive,  almond,  peach,  nectarine,  the  outer  peel  of  the 


ELEMENTS    OF   FOOD.  49 

lemon  and  orange,  in  aromatic  .herbs,  etc.    The  acids  give  flavor  to 
fruit ;  they  are,  the  malic  of  the  apple,  citric  of  the  lemon,  tartaric 
of  the  grape.     Acetic  is  found  in  many  fruits :  the  acid  of  common 
vinegar,  tannic,  is  found  in  tea,  coffee,  and  the  barks  of  several  trees. 
In  tea,  it  is  united  with  theine.    Besides,  the  poison  acids,  oxalic  of 
the  sorrel,  and  prussic  of  the  cherry.     The  two  latter  are  never  found 
in  a  pure  state,  and  are  extremely  poisonous.     The  apple  and  pear 
are  considered  useful  with  other  food  ;  when  cooked  are  slightly  lax- 
ative.    The  quince  is  cooling,  astringent,  and  strengthening  to  the 
stomach.     The  peach  is  healthy  and  agreeable  when  fully  ripe. 
Cherries  should  be  used  sparingly,  unless  very  ripe,  and  even  then 
prove  injurious  to  weak  stomachs  in  a  raw  state.     Oranges  are  agree- 
able, cooling,  and  healthy.     The  lemon  is  cooling  and  grateful.     The 
pineapple  has,  in  its  juice,  caustic  properties,  and  is  less  healthy,  es- 
pecially in  this  country,  where  it  is  never  found  in  perfection,  than  either 
of  the  abovementioned  fruits.     Grapes  are  very  delicious  and  nutri- 
tive when  ripe  ;  they  stimulate  and  strengthen  the  stomach,  fresh  or 
dried    as  raisins.      Currants  are  very   cooling    and  useful   to  the 
stomach  with  other  food,  either  fresh  or  in  jellies.     Muskmelons  are 
not  considered  very  healthy ;  watermelons  more  so.     Cucumbers  are 
cold,  and  not  easy  to  digest ;  they  should  be  highly  seasoned,  and 
served  with  other  food  if  eaten ;  weak  stomachs  should  avoid  them 
entirely.     Figs  are  very  nutritive  and  agreeable  if  fresh.     Tamarinds 
contain  potassa,  gum  jelly,  citric  acid,  tartaric  acid,  malic  acid,  and 
are  useful  in  cooling  drinks.     Cabbages  are  difficult  to  digest  for  weak 
stomachs,  but  to  most  persons  are  wholesome  when  cooked  perfectly 
tender.     Peas  are  highly  nutritive,  though,  when  ripe,  more  difficult  to 
digest  than  ripe  corn.    Beans  are  more  nutritive  than  most  vegetables ; 
they  are  too  much  so  for  weak  stomachs ;  dyspeptics  should  avoid 
them.     Potatoes  are  wholesome,  they  contain  a  great   amount  of 
starch,  and  are  relished  by  all.     Turnips  contain  but  little  nutriment. 
Carrots  contain  a  great  amount  of  sugar  and  little  starch.     Parsnips 
contain  more  sugar  than  any  of  the  roots  mentioned ;  they  are  the 
best  flavored  when  grown  on  poor  or  rather  light  soil.     Beets  are  not 
considered  wholesome  unless  used  very  young ;  old  beets  are  stringy 
and  hard  to  digest.     Onions  contain  nutritive  mucilage;  they  are 
also  strengthening  to  the  stomach.     Asparagus  is  light,  and  digests 
with  ease,  but  is  not  particularly  nutritive.     Lettuce  is  a  cooling 
vegetable,  and  useful  in  correcting  other  food ;  should  be  used  as 
salads.     Celery  is  not  considered  nutritious,  but  can  be  used  with 
moderation  without  injury.     The  herbs  are  all  useful  in  their  places, 
3 


60 


housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 


in  the  preparations  of  various  dishes  which  would  be  insipid  without 
them.  The  two  following  tables  will  give  some  idea  of  the  value  of 
the  different  kinds  of  food  mentioned  by  them.  The  first  is  by  Lie- 
big,  and  the  other  by  Sir  H.  Davy.  Not  all  the  vegetables  used  can 
be  mentioned  in  this  work ;  only  those  in  general  use  have  been 
touched  upon,  not  scientifically,  but  merely  statements  drawn  from 
science,  showing  how  they  range  as  nutritious  food. 

Liebig*s  Table  for  every  ten  Flesh-giving  parts. 


Human  Milk, 
Cow's  Milk, 
Lentils, 
Horsebeans,     . 

Fat  Mutton,  *  . 
Fat  Pork,      . 
Beef, 
Hare,     . 
Veal, 

Wheat  Flour, 
Oat  Meal, 
Rye  Flour,    . 
White  Potatoes, 
Black  Potatoes,     . 
Rice, 
Buckwheat  Flour, 


Flesh-giving.    Warmth-giving. 


10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 
10 


40 
30 
21 
22 
23 
27 
30 
17 
2 
1 

46 

50 

57 

86 

115 

123 

130 


Wheat, 
Barley, 
Oats,      . 
Rje,  .        . 
Beans,    . 
Dry  Peas, 

Potatoes, 

Beets,  red, 
White  Beet, 
Parsnips,   . 
Carrots, 
Turnips,    . 
Cabbage, 


Whole 

Extract 

Quantity 

or 

of 

Starch 

^Saccharine 

Gluten 

Matter 

Soluble 

or 

Matter. 

or 

rendered 

or 

Mucilage. 

Albumen. 

insoluble 

Nutritive 

during 

Matter. 

evaporation 

955 

739 



225 



920 

790 

70 

60 

— 

743 

641 

15 

87 

— 

792 

645 

38 

109 

— 

570 

426 

— 

103 

41 

574 

501 

22 

35 

16 

250  to  200 

j     From 
(  200tol55 

From 
20  to  15 

From 
40  to  30 

\  ~ 

148 

14 

120 

14 

136 

13 

119 

4 

— 

99 

9 

90 

— 

— 

98 

3 

95 

— 

— 

42 

7 

34 

1 

— 

73 

41 

24 

8 

— • 

The  above  is  but  a  part  of  the  table  drawn  up  by  Sir  Humphry 


ELEMENTS    OF    FOOD.  51 

Davy,  published  in  his  work  on  agricultural  chemistry;  but  it  is 
sufficient,  as  we  think,  to  guide  housekeepers  in  selecting  such  arti- 
cles of  diet  as  will  suit  their  respective  families.  Those  who  wish 
farther  to  consult  this  table,  are  referred  to  the  original  work. 


CHAPTER   III.      ■ 

MARKETING. 

Good  Ox  Beef  is  known  by  its  having  a  loose  grain,  red  meat, 
and  rather  yellowish  fat.  Beef  from  the  cow  has  firmer  grain,  whiter 
fat,  and  less  color  to  the  meat.  "When  the  animal  is  too  old  or  ill-fed, 
the  lean  part  is  a  dark  red,  and  the  fat  hard  and  skinny,  and  in  very 
old  animals  there  will  be  seen  running  through  the  ribs  a  sort  of 
horny  substance.  "When  meat  rises  quickly  after  being  pressed  by  the 
finger,  it  may  be  considered  prime ;  on  the  contrary  when  the  dent 
made  by  pressing  rises  slowly  or  not  at  all,  the  beef  is  poor. 

Veal,  to  be  fine,  should  be  white,  though  dark-colored  veal  is 
often  good.  It  is  said  butchers  bleed  calves  to  make  the  flesh  white. 
If  the  fat  enveloping  the  kidney  be  firm  and  white,  the  meat  will  in 
all  probability  be  good.  Overgrown  calves  are  not  considered  as  del- 
icate for  veal  as  small  fat  ones.  Yeal  will  keep  but  a  short  time,  and 
to  be  healthy  must  be  used  fresh.  When  decay  commences,  the  fat 
softens  and  the  meat  presents  a  spotted  appearance,  losing  its  solidity 
of  grain,  and  the  dent  remains  when  pressed  with  the  finger. 

Mutton. — Sheep  should  be  slaughtered  about  five  years  old,  though 
often  killed  younger.  In  young  mutton  the  flesh  is  quite  tender,  and 
when  very  old  it  wrinkles.  To  be  prime  the  flesh  should  be  red  and 
firm,  the  grain  close,  and  the  fat  white.  Great  care  should  be  taken 
in  dressing  sheep  or  lamb.  If  the  wool  touches  the  flesh,  it  imparts 
an  unpleasant  taste. 

Lamb  must  be  used  very  soon  after  being  killed.  "When  the  large 
vein  in  the  neck  is  bluish  color,  the  fore  quarter  is  fresh,  becoming 
green  when  too  old.  The  first  indication  of  decay  in  the  hind  quarter 
is  an  unpleasant  smell  in  the  fat  of  the  kidneys. 

Poek,  when  prime,  has  a  thin,  smooth  rind,  quite  cool  to  the 
touch.    "When  changing,  clammy,  the  dent  remaining  when  pressed. 


52  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

"When  pork  shows  kernels  in  the  fat,  the  hog  was  either  ill-fed  or 
diseased. 

Venison  is  generally  kept  some  time.  "When  good  there  is  consid- 
erable thickness  to  the  fat,  which  is  clear  and  bright.  It  should  be 
cooked  before  the  meat  shows  the  least  taint. 

Poultry. — It  is  important  in  choosing  poultry  to  ascertain,  if  pos- 
sible, its  age.  A  young  fowl  has  smooth  legs  and  combs.  "When  old 
they  are  rough,  and  have  long  hairs  on  the  breast.  They  should  be 
plump  breasted,  with  fat  backs,  and  have  white  or  light  yellow  legs. 

Turkeys  when  young  have  smooth  black  legs,  becoming  rough  as 
they  grow  old.  "When  too  long  killed  they  become  dark  around  the 
vent.  A  young  turkey  has  a  full,  bright  eye,  and  an  old  one  a  dull, 
sunken  one.  An  old  turkey's  legs  are  reddish  and  quite  rough,  a 
young  one's  smooth. 

Geese. — A  young  goose  has  yellow  feet,  old  geese  red.  A  gosling 
of  two  or  three  months  is  called  a  green  goose.  "When  long  killed,  the 
feet  are  stiff ;  when  fresh,  pliable. 

Duoks. — Tame  ducks  have  yellow  fat,  wild  ones  red.  They  should 
have  pliable  feet,  with  firm,  plump  breasts. 

Pigeons. — Tame  pigeons  are  considerably  larger  than  the  wild,  and 
more  desirable.  Pigeons  are  good  for  nothing  when  long  killed.  The 
flesh  becomes  soft,  and  is  often  tainted,  not  showing  it  until  cooked. 
The  feet  of  a  young  pigeon  are  soft  and  pliant. 

Partridges  are  miserable  eating  when  old,  but  very  fine  when 
young ;  particularly  relished  by  invalids.  They  are  known  to  be 
young  when  the  bills  are  dark,  and  legs  yellow. 

Prairie  Chickens  resemble  the  tame  somewhat,  but  are  by  epi- 
cures more  highly  esteemed.  They  should  never  be  killed  while 
setting. 

Quails  are  the  very  finest  wild  game  at  the  West.  The  flesh  re- 
sembles the  chicken,  but  is  as  much  finer  as  the  bird  is  smaller.  They 
are  used  during  the  early  fall  and  winter ;  it  is  cruel  to  kill  them  when 
taking  care  of  their  young. 

Woodcock  and  Snipe  should  be  used  young.  It  is  easy  to 
know  when  they  are  young  by  observing  their  feet,  which  will  be 


MARKETING.  53 

soft  and  tender,  becoming  thick  and  hard  as  they  grow  old.  When 
too  long  killed  the  feet  become  hard,  the  bills  moist,  and  throat  dis- 
colored, having  a  sort  of  muddy  appearance. 

Blackbirds  when  fat  are  superb  eating.  They  should  be  killed 
when  feasting  on  green  corn  and  wheat.  The  flesh  is  very  sweet ; 
none  is  better  ;  and  the  bones  being  small,  there  is  more  eating  on  a 
bird  than  would  at  first  be  supposed. 

Hares  and  Rabbits. — Examine  the  ears ;  if  pointed  and  tender, 
they  are  young;  if  the  reverse,  old.  A  young  hare  may  also  be 
known  by  a  narrow  cleft  in  its  lip.  To  distinguish  one-year  old  hare, 
examine  the  leg,  and  a  small  bone  will  be  found  near  the  foot. 

Oysters. — If  fresh  the  shell  will  be  firmly  closed. 

Lobsters. — Press  the  eyeball ;  if  fresh,  some  muscular  action  will 
be  seen ;  if  not  perceived,  it  has  been  kept  too  long.  When  boiled, 
if  the  tail  is  elastic  it  is  fresh.  Select  heavy  lobsters ;  the  light  ones 
are  poor  and  watery. 

Crabs  and  Crawfish. — Observe  the  same  rule  in  selecting  these 
as  in  lobsters.     They  smell  pleasantly  when  fresh. 

Prawns  and  Shrimps. — These  are  firm  and  crisp  when  fresh. 

Fresh  Water  Fish  must  be  used  fresh  to  be  wholesome.  When 
so,  the  flesh  is  firm  and  the  eye  clear ;  when  too  long  kept,  the  eye 
becomes  dull  and  the  flesh  soft. 

Mackerel  and  Herring  to  be  good  must  be  used  fresh.  They 
must  not  be  kept  many  hours  out  of  water.  When  brought  a  dis- 
tance are  very  poor  eating.    A  fresh  mackerel  or  herring  has  bright 

eyes.' 

Salmon. — This  fish  loses  flavor  as  soon  as  dead,  and  must  be  used 
immediately  to  be  in  perfection. 

Cod  when  fresh  have  rigid  muscles,  clear  eyes,  and  reddish  gills. 

Thrbot. — The  underside  of  this  fish  when  fresh  is  a  cream  color. 
If  too  long  kept,  it  turns  a  bluish  white.  The  flesh  should  be  firm, 
indeed  quite  rigid,  and  the  eye  bright  and  clear. 

Trout. — These  are  in  season  from  the  first  of  March  until  August, 


54 

but  are  the  most  esteemed  in  May  and  June.  When  in  season  the 
scales  are  bright  and  glossy.  Cook  as  soon  as  possible  after  they  are 
caught. 

Pike. — This  is  rather  a  dry  fish.    It  is  the  best  stuffed  and  roasted. 

Perch. — This  is  a  fine  fish,  and  on  account  of  its  great  tenacity  to 
life  can  be  carried  a  long  distance. 

Bull's  Head. — Smoked  resembles  the  salmon. 

Eels. — These  fish  can  be  kept  alive  several  days  in  wet  sand*  They 
are  rather  too  oily  to  be  very  wholesome,  but  are  considered  a  great 
delicacy.  If  the  head  of  the  eel  is  cut  off  before  skinning,  much  of  the 
cruelty  usually  attending  the  dressing  will  be  avoided. 

Halibut. — A  very  large  fish  weighing  from  one  to  three  hundred 
pounds.  The  flesh  of  the  largest  is  coarse  and  dry,  but  the  small-sized 
has  white,  tender  flesh,  and  is  considered  a  rarity. 

Turtle. — The  green  turtle  is  the  best  for  cooking,  so  called  from 
the  color  of  its  fat.  It  should  be  killed  as  soon  as  possible  when 
taken  from  the  water. 

Vegetables. — These"  should  always  be  fresh  if  bought  during  the 
growing  season.     "Wilted  vegetables  are  very  unhealthy. 

Asparagus. — The  part  that  is  tough  is  good  for  nothing :  select 
bunches  with  close  heads  and  tender  stalks. 

String  Beans. — Observe  that  they  are  not  wilted  and  break  brittle. 

Cauliflower. — The  heads  should  be  firm,  white,  solid,  and  crisp. 

Cabbage. — Select  small-sized,  firm,  hard  heads. 

Caeeots. — Do  not  buy  large  roots ;  the  small  orange  variety  with 
round  bottoms  are  the  sweetest. 

Cucumbers. — These  should  be  good-sized,  but  not  large  enough  to 
show  seed ;  of  a  bright  green  color. 

Egg  Plant. — The  long  purple  is  much  better  for  the  table  than 
the  round.  Press  the  skin ;  if  wilted  it  will  give  considerably.  "When 
not  fresh  it  is  apt  to  be  bitter. 

Green  Corn. — Sweet  corn  is  the  best  for  the  table :  do  not  buy 
any  that  is  wilte'd  or  dried. 


MARKETING. 


55 


Beets. — Small-sized  roots  are  the  most  tender  and  sweetest ;  the 
earliest  are  turnip-shaped.  The  blood  beets  are  the  best,  let  the  roots 
be  shaped  as  they  may. 

Lettuce.— Select  firm  heads  with  thick  leaves  not  wilted. 

Melons.— The  small  green  are  the  highest  flavored  of  the  musk- 
melons/  Press  watermelons  ;  if  ripe,  they  will  crack  so  as  to  be 
plainly  heard.  White-cored  mountain  sprout,  Long  Island,  and  Im- 
perial are  the  best. 

Oeha. — Eun  a  pin's  head  through  the  pods ;  if  young  enough,  it 
will  go  through  readily. 

Onions. — Select  undersized  onions  perfectly  dry.  The  white  look 
the  best,  but  the  red  are  the  sweetest. 

Paeslet. — The  double  curled  is  the  finest ;  select  such  bunches  as 
are  not  wilted. 

Parsnips. — The  largest  are  coarse  and  strong.  Hallow  or  sugar 
crown,  rather  undersized,  are  the  finest. 

Peas. — The  June  peas  are  a  tasteless  variety.  Buy  marrowfats 
fresh  picked,  and  always  in  the  pods. 

Potatoes. — For  the  summer  select  such  as  can  be  peeled  by  rub- 
bing with  the  hand,  without  scraping  with  a  knife ;  for  winter,  firm 
skins,  clear  from  clay,  and  well  dug,  instead  of  being  hacked  by  the 
hoe,  as  is  often  the  case.    Pink-eyes  are  very  good,  also  Mercers. 

Sweet  Potatoes. — The  yellow  are  the  driest  and  sweetest. 

Eadishes. — The  small,  tender  roots  are  much  better  to  buy  than 
large,  overgrown  ones. 

Khubarb. — The  largest  is  not  always  the  best.  Select  tender 
skinned  stalks ;  the  red  is  the  earliest. 

Salsify. — Select  smooth  tubers,  and  as  large  as  possible. 

Spinach,  when  fresh,  is  an  excellent  green ;  see  that  it  is  not 
wilted. 

SQTJASH.—For  summer  the  scallop  is  much  esteemed ;  for  winter 
there  are  many  excellent  varieties.    Boston  marrow  among  the  best. 


56  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Tomatoes. — The  large  smooth  red  is  the  best  flavored  and  least 
trouble  to  dress. 

Turnip. — For  summer,  use  the  round  white,  known  as  "  Early- 
Strap  leaved."      Winter  turnips  should  be  slightly  frosted. 

Flour  should  be  white,  and  when  pressed  in  the  hand  remain 
in  a  lump,  leaving  the  marks  of  the  fingers,  and  even  the  skin*  on  the 
flour. 

Coarse  or  Graham  Flour. — The  wheat  should  be  washed  and 
ground  coarse :  if  it  remains  in  a  lump  after  pressing  in  the  hand,  the 
wheat  is  good. 

Buckwheat  Flour. — Select  flour  free  from  grit,  and  light-colored. 
Buckwheat  is  often  very  dirty,  being  generally  threshed  on  the 
ground. 

Indian  Meal. — Yellow  corn  makes  the  best  meal.  It  should  be 
well  dried  before  grinding,  not  ground  too  fine,  and  the  sack  be  emptied 
as  soon  as  brought  from  the  mill,  or  it  will  heat. 

Sugar. — Before  buying  sugars  dissolve  a  little  from  the  barrel. 
It  is  often  adulterated,  the  brown  with  sand,  and  pulverized  with 
flour.    The  best  sugar  is  the  cheapest. 

Tea,  (see  Tea.) — Select  a  chest  and  try  it  before  purchasing,  unless 
you  can  judge  by  chewing  the  leaves. 

Coffee,  (see  Coffee.) — Examine  the  sack  to  see  how  much  waste 
there  will  be  in  the  refuse  coffee.    If  possible  try  the  quality. 

Eaislns. — Eaisins  should  be  fresh.  If  a  box  is  wanted  wait  until 
the  current  year's  crop  has  been  received,  and  the  same  with  currants 
and  prunes. 

DnrED  Peaches  should  be  dark,  clear  looking,  without  skins,  and 
free  from  vermin.  Be  sure  they  are  not  baked  so  much  as  to  make 
them  tough. 

Dried  Plums  and  Cherries  should  look  clear  and  bright;  are 
the  best  dried  with  sugar  without  pits. 

Dried  Berries. — The  only  trouble  in  purchasing  these  is  the  danger 
of  vermin.  Examine  well  the  inside  of  a  handful  below  the  surface. 
Vermin  are  never  in  sight. 


MARKETING.    .  57 

Dried  Apples. — Dried  apples  should  be  light-colored,  plump,  acid, 
and  free  from  vermin.  Examine  the  cores  to  know  positively  in  re- 
gard to  vermin. 

Eice. — This  is  sometimes  infested  with  vermin,  as  well  as  fruits, 
hut  they  are  soon  seen  if  notice  is  taken. 

Oranges. — The  sour  oranges  are  used  for  jellies  and  syrups. 
They  are  the  cheapest  in  March  and  April.  The  Seville  are  the  best 
for  marmalades ;  these  are  best  in  February  and  March. 

Pineapples. — If  to  be  taken  into  the  country  must  be  purchased 
green.  It  is  said  they  keep  longer  if  the  leaves  are  twisted  out. 
When  they  can  be  immediately  used  they  should  be  yellow  and  free 
from  spots. 

Figs  should  be  fresh  and  moist.  These  are  often  filled  with 
vermin.     In  buying  by  the  drum  be  sure  they  are  fresh. 

Grapes,  if  bought  by  the  box,  should  be  examined  before  pur- 
chasing, as  they  will  often  be  found  decayed  badly. 


3* 


PART  III. 

GENERAL    COOKERY. 


CHAPTER   L 

gO-TTPS,   SAUCES,  AND   GRAVIES, 

Eemaeks. — In  making  stock  for  soup,  care  must  be  used,  or  much 
of  the  flavor  of  the  meat  will  be  lost.  It  should  boil  up  once  to  throw- 
up  any  impurities  in  the  meat  or  water ;  let  it  then  be  thoroughly 
skimmed,  and  the  pot  covered  tight,  and  kept  so  while  the  soup  is 
slowly  boiling ;  while  the  steam,  which  will  be  constantly  condensing 
on  the  cover,  falls  back  in  the  soup ;  thus  retaining  all  the  flavor  of 
the  joint.  The  same  rule  applies  to  stews  and  sauces  formed  of  meats. 
People  usually  hurry  soups  too  much ;  but  in  this  case,  "  haste  certainly 
makes  waste,"  according  to  the  old  maxim.  If  a  little  forethought  is 
used,  this  can  be  avoided,  and  some  fuel  saved  at  the  same  time.  It  is 
certainly  far  less  trouble  to  remove  the  fat  from  soups  cold,  than  when 
boiling  as  furiously  as  possible.  Meat  for  soups  should  be  boiled  long 
and  slow.  Salt  should  be  rubbed  on  the  meat  to  draw  out  the  juices ; 
the  water  should  be  cold  when  the  meat  is  put  in.  Bones,  as  well  as 
meat,  are  important  to  soup,  as  from  them  the  gelatine  is  extracted. 
"When  the  meat  is  wanted  to  serve  in  other  forms,  it  should  not  be 
boiled  to  pieces ;  but  if  the  soup  is  desired  superior,  the  finer  the  meat 
the  better.  Shreds  of  meat,  and  bits  of  bones,  must  always  be  strained 
from  soup,  if  desired  to  present  a  good  appearance  at  table.  A  soup 
cannot  be  prepared  for  the  table,  unless  the  dinner  is  very  late,  the 
same  day  the  knuckle  is  procured  from  market.  Buy  the  Jbone  the 
day  previous  ;  boil  and  strain  the  liquor ;  when  cold,  take  off  the  fat. 
Most  persons  imagine  that  fat  is  what  gives  richness  to  soup ;  the 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  GRAVIES,  59 

French,  who  are  far  before  us  in  the  manufacture  of  soups,  always  re- 
move every  particle  of  the  fat  not  combined  with  the  gelatine  before 
adding  the  seasonings :  it  is  the  juices  and  gelatine  that  impart  richness 
to  soup.  Physicians  do  not  now  consider  soups  as  nourishing  as  for- 
merly. Teas,  made  from  meats,  are  much  more  so ;  indeed,  nothing  in 
the  form  of  food  can  be  found  more  stimulating  than  the  essence  of 
beef  when  properly  prepared  in  the  form  of  tea.  Herbs  can  be  used, 
dried  or  green ;  when  the  former,  they  should  be  finely  pulverized  and 
sifted,  that  no  sticks  may  be  left  floating  in  the  tureen. 

Plain  Beef  Soup  No.  1. — Procure  from  market  a  beef-shank, 
familiarly  called  a  soup-bone ;  wash  clean,  and  saw  it  nearly  through 
the  bone  several  times,  and  rub  it  with  salt ;  after  an  hour  put  the 
bone  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water.  A  large  shank  will  make  six  quarts  of 
soup.  If  the  soup  is  to  be  served  the  same  day  the  bone  is  boiled, 
put  it  on  by  seven  in  the  morning.  Cover  tightly,  only  lifting  the 
lid  to  skim  off  the  fat,  which  must  be  thoroughly  removed  before  add- 
ing seasoning  and  vegetables.  If  the  meat  is  to  be  used  again,  take 
it  out  before  it  boils  in  pieces ;  slip  out  the  bone,  and  return  it  to  the 
soup.  Taste  the  broth  before  salting — it  may  have  sufficient ;  always 
remember  that  pepper  and  salt  can  be  added  at  table,  but  cannot  so 
easily  be  taken  out  if  too  much  is  used.  In  seasoning  dishes  before 
serving,  therefore,  it  is  better  they  should  lack  than  be  overseasoned. 
Take  out  a  bowl  of  soup  and  stir  into  it  a  heaping  table-spoonful  of 
flour,  mixed  with  cold  water,  quite  smooth ;  add  pepper  and  summer- 
savory,  if  dried,  finely  powdered,  and  sifted.  For  six  quarts  allow  six 
potatoes  cut  in  halves,  about  a  half  of  a  small  loaf  of  bread,  (when 
there  is  none  on  hand  dry,  which  is  better  than  fresh ;)  when  fresh, 
cut  the  bread  into  chunks,  and  let  the  crust  remain  on  each  piece ; 
put  the  potatoes  and  bread  in  the  pot  at  the  same  time,  allowing 
twenty  minutes  for  them  to  boil ;  then  cut  finely  two  large  onions, 
and  add  to  the  soup  ;  cover  tight,  and  take  up  as  soon  as  the  potatoes 
are  done.  It  should  only  boil:  if  it  does  more,  the  bread  will  break 
in  pieces,  and  thicken  the  soup  too  much.  "When  the  bone  is  boiled 
the  day  previous,  remove  the  meat,  and  leave  the  liquor  to  become 
cold  ;  the  next  day  remove  the  fat  and  prepare  the  soup  a3  directed. 
If  the  meat  is  boiled  to  rags,  the  liquor  should  be  strained  while  hot, 
fat  and  all,  through  a  wire  sieve. 

Beef  Soup  No.  2. — Prepare  the  stock  as  already  described  in  Plain 
Soup  Not  1.    To  six  quarts  of  soup,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt, 


60 

put  a  coffeecup  of  washed  rice,  six  potatoes,  three  turnips,  two  carrots, 
three  onions,  parsley,  and  summer-savory. 

Beef  Soup  No.  3. — Prepare  stock  as  in  No.  1 ;  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  summer-savory,  and  onion ;  make  a  paste  of  three  eggs,  a  little 
salt  and  flour  as  stiff  as  possible,  roll  it  out  as  thin  as  wafers,  let  it 
dry  two  hours,  then  roll  it  up  quite  tight,  and  cut  it  in  shreds ;  add  it 
to  the  soup  while  boiling ;  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Parsley  and 
celery  can  be  added  if  desired. 

Beef  Soup  No.  4. — Make  the  stock  as  for  No.  1 ;  season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  summer-savory,  two  onions,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one 
quart  chopped  gombo,  and  one-half  teacup  of  macaroni;  parsley  and 
celery,  if  relished. 

Economy  Beef  Soup  No.  5. — Take  the  bone  left  from  steak,  boil 
it  two  hours ;  skim  off  the  fat,  add  half  a  table-spoonful  of  shred  gelatine, 
one  onion,  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  summer-savory,  a  table-spoonful  of  to- 
mato catsup,  and  a  teacupful  of  washed  rice  ;  then  peel  three  potatoes, 
cut  in  halves,  or  quarters,  if  very  large ;  throw  them  in  the  soup-,  with 
crusts  of  bread,  or  biscuit.  If  the  bone  is  large,  the  gelatine  can  be 
omitted  ;  it  adds  richness  to  the  soup.  This  recipe  is  calculated  to 
make  three  quarts,  with  the  vegetables. 

Teal  Soup  No.  1. — Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  four  calves'  feet,  in 
six  quarts  of  water,  until  the  meat  is  boiled  to  shreds,  and  the  gristle 
dissolved ;  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  table-spoon  of  whole  pepper- 
corns, and  sweet  herbs  tied  in  a  bunch,  consisting  of  equal  parts  of 
thyme,  summer-savory,  and  parsley ;  strain  it  in  a  stone  jar  or  earthen 
dish ;  the  next  day  remove  all  the  fat,  and  gradually  dissolve  the  jelly 
in  a  clean  pot ;  add  a  teacup  of  vermicelli ;  when  this  is  dissolved,  take 
the  soup  from  the  fire,  but  leave  on  the  cover ;  break  up  two  light  rolls, 
'  and  put  them  in  the  tureen,  with  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  quite  fresh ; 
add  a  little  soup  and  stir  gently,  then  fill  with  hot  soup,  and  mix  all 
together  ;  taste  and  see  if  the  seasoning  is  as  it  should  be ;  if  not,  add 
pepper  and  salt  to  suit.  The  French  add  mace  or  nutmegs,  but 
Americans  generally  prefer  those  spices  in  cakes,  puddings,  and  pies. 
There  ought  to  be  about  five  quarts  when  finished. 

Veal  Soup  No.  2.— Prepare  the  stock  as  in  No.  1 ;  the  next  day, 
mince  the  veal  fine,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  make  it  into 
small  ballls,  with  eggs  and  bread  moistened  a  very  little ;  make  them 
about  the  size  of  half  "an  egg,  and  quite  firm ;  flavor  the  soup  with 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  GRAVIES.  61 

onion,  pepper  and  salt,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  stirred  in  water, 
say  one  table-spoonful  to  four  quarts ;  add  a  half  teacup  of  rice  well 
washed ;  boil  slowly.  Ten  minutes  before  time  to  serve  the  dinner, 
add  the  balls ;  let  the  soup  only  simmer  after  they  are  put  in,  or  they 
will  break. 

Veal  Soup  No.  3. — Prepare  the  stock  as  described  in  No.  1 ;  the. 
next  day,  melt  the  jelly,  add  pepper  and  salt;  if  desired,  potatoes, 
celery,  parsley,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  tomato-catsup ;  make  a  paste 
with  flour,  one  egg  and  salt,  (as  described  in  Beef  Soup  No.  3,)  roll 
thin  and  cut  in  strips ;  thicken  with  a  heaping  table-spoon  of  rice-flour 
well  mixed  in  milk,  and  stirred  into  a  bowl  of  soup,  and  afterwards  into 
the  kettle. 

Economical  Veal  Soup  No.  4. — Boil  a  bit  of  veal  that  will  make 
a  fricassee,  pie,  or  hash  ;  when  tender,  take  out  the  meat,  and  slip  out 
the  bones  ;  put  them  back  in  the  kettle,  and  boil  gently  two  hours ; 
then  strain  the  liquor,  and  let  it  remain  until  next  day  ;  when  wanted, 
take  off  the  fat,  put  the  soup  in^o  a  clean  pot,  add  pepper,  salt,  an 
onion,  a  half  teacup  of  rice,  a  table-spoon  of  flour  mixed  in  water,  dry 
bread,  and  potatoes. 

Lobster  Soup. — Boil  three  large  young  hen-lobsters  until  tender, 
in  boiling  water  strongly  salted.  If  the  heads  of  the  fish  are  put  in 
first,  and  the  water  is  boiliug  hot,  they  will  live  but  a  moment ;  when 
cold,  split  the  tails,  take  out  the  meat,  crack  the  claws,  and  cut  the 
meat  in  very  small  bits ;  bruise  a  part  of  the  coral  in  a  mortar  with  a 
part  of  the  meat,  season  this  with  Cayenne,  salt,  nutmeg,  mace,  an- 
chovy, grated  lemon,  and  yolk  of  eggs;  make  it  into  small  force- 
meat balls ;  have  ready  three  quarts  of  nice  veal  stock,  bruise  the  small 
legs  and  chine,  and  boil  them  in  the  stock  twenty-five  minutes ;  then 
strain  the  stock  ;  to  thicken  it,  take  the  fresh  coral  and  butter,  bruise 
it  with  a  little  flour,  and  pass  it  through  a  sieve ;  add  it  to  the  soup 
with  the  force-meat  balls  and  remaining  coral ;  simmer  gently  ten 
minutes ;  if  it  boils,  it  will  lose  its  bright  color ;  pour  it  in  a  tureen, 
add  lemon-juice,  and  anchovy  sauce,  if  relished.  This  recipe  was 
communicated. 

Eel  Soup. — Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  a  couple  of  on- 
ions cut  once,  and  stew  them  until  lightly  browned ;  remove  the  onions, 
and  put  into  the  pan,  cut  in  pieces,  three  pounds  of  unskinned  eels,  shake 
them  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  three  quarts  of  boiling 


62 

water.  "When  it  boils,  remove  the  scum ;  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  green,  not  dried,  summer-savory,  the  same  of  lemon,  thyme,  twice 
as  much  parsley,  two  drachms  each  of  allspice  and  black  pepper ; 
cover  close,  and  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  strain  it  through  a 
fine  sieve ;  put  in  a  stew-pan  three  ounces  of  butter,  melt  it,  and  stir 
in  flour,  until  it  thickens  considerably,  and  add  the  soup  gradually  to 
it,  stirring  constantly.  If  the  spices  are  not  relished,  omit  them ; 
cooks  should  always  be  governed  by  the  tastes  of  the  family.  Put 
the  soup  in  a  stew-pan,  and  add  nice  bits  of  eel,  fried  brown  in  butter, 
ten  minutes  before  pouring  it  in  the  tureen.  This  recipe  was  com- 
municated. 

Clam  Sotjp  No.  1. — "Wash  clean  as  many  clams  as  are  needed  for 
the  family  ;  put  them  in  just  boiling  water  enough  to  prevent  their 
burning  ;  the  water  must  be  boiling  hard  when  the  clams  are  put  in 
the  kettle  ;  in  a  short  time  the  shells  will  open,  and  the  liquor  in  them 
run  out ;  take  the  clams  from  their  shells  and  chop  them  very  fine  • 
strain  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  boiled,  through  a  thin  cloth,  and 
stir  into  it  the  chopped  clams,  season  with  pepper,  add  salt,  if 
needed  ;  thicken  the  soup  with  butter  rolled  thin  in  flour,  let  it  boil 
fifteen  minutes  ;  toast  bread  and  cut  it  in  small  squares,  lay  it  in  the 
tureen,  and  pour  over  the  soup  ;  if  the  family  like  onions,  a  little  juice 
of  onion  can  be  added ;  if  celery,  it  can  be  varied  by  the  addition  of  a 
little  celery  cut  fine ;  another  change  can  be  made  by  adding  the  yolk 
of  well  beaten  eggs  stirred  slowly  into  it,  or  rich  cream  can  be  added. 
Persons  living  on  the  sea-shore  can  make  several  dishes  with  these 
changes  with  little  expense. 

Clam  Soup  No.  2. — Boil  well  cleaned  clams  in  boiling  water, 
until  the  shells  open ;  there  should  be  only  water  sufficient  to  cover 
them.  When  the  shells  open  take  out  the  clams,  chop  them  fine, 
strain  the  liquor  into  the  soup  pot,  and  boil  the  minced  clams  two 
hours,  or  until  the  flavor  is  extracted.  Then  strain  them  from  the 
liquor,  add  pepper ;  and  salt  also,  if  needed,  but  generally  there  is  suffi- 
cient salt  in  the  clam.  Make  a  dumpling  like  a  short  biscuit,  but 
very  soft  and  rich,  roll  it  out  quite  thin,  and  cut  in  small  pieces  with 
a  cracker  cutter.  "Work  into  a  teacup  of  butter  a  large  table-spoon- 
ful of  flour,  stir  into  it  enough  hot  soup  to  make  a  batter,  then  add 
the  batter  to  the  soup,  stirring  constantly  until  it  boils  up ;  then" 
put  in  twelve  of  the  dumplings,  cover  tight,  and  let  it  boil  fifteen 
minutes  steadily ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  skim  out  the  dumplings 


80UPS,  SAUCES,  AND  GRAVIES.  63 

and  lay  them  in  the  tureen ;  have  ready  the  beaten  yolk  of  three 
eggs,  stir  into  them  a  coffee-cup  of  the  soup,  and  strain  the  soup  and 
egg  through  a  wire  sieve ;  after  which  it  must  be  gradually  stirred 
into  the  soup,  which  should  not  boil  after  the  egg  is  added.  This 
soup  will  require  one  hundred  small,  or  sixty  large  clams.  Care  must 
be  taken  that  too  much  water  is  not  used,  as  the  soup  requires  a 
strong  flavor  from  the  clams.    If  weak  it  will  be  insipid. 

Oyster  Soup  for  the  City. — Have  ready  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  into  which  put  three  quarts  of  fresh  oysters,  and  their  juice. 
Let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  skim  thoroughly  ;  have  ready  a  teacup- 
ful  of  sweet  butter,  with  a  large  table-spoonful  of  flour  worked  into 
it ;  add  to  it  sufficient  hot  soup  to  melt  the  butter,  and  stir  the  whole 
into  the  soup  ;  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  take  it  off  immediately.  The 
oysters  should  Dot  be  on  the  fire  over  fifteen  minutes ;  they  only 
want  heating  through.  Have  fresh  crackers  or  toasted  bread ;  if  the 
first,  split  them ;  if  the  latter,  cut  in  small  squares  ;  puf  them  in  the 
tureen,  and  pour  over  the  soup.  Let  each  person  add  pepper  and  salt 
to  suit  the  taste.  Celery,  and  ground  horseradish,  are  both  excel- 
lent relishes  for  oysters.     Pickles  can  also  be  served  with  them. 

Oyster  Soup  for  the  Country. — Throw  two  quarts  of  oysters 
into  three  pints  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  up  and  take  off  the  scum. 
Have  ready  a  small  table-spoon  of  sifted  flour,  worked  in  a  teacup 
of  fresh  butter ;  stir  this  into  the  soup,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  remove 
it  from  the  fire.  If  the  soup  is  preferred  quite  thick,  add  a  teacup- 
ful  of  crackers  rolled  very  fine.  Serve  with  toasted  bread  or  crack- 
ers. Many  persons  are  food  of  cream  in  oysters.  If  used,  heat  it 
over  water,  and  stir  it  in  the  soup  when  dishing ;  a  pint  of  very  rich 
cream  will  make  three-fourths  of  the  butter  superfluous.  Pepper 
should  be  added  at  table ;  many  persons  never  use  it  in  oysters. 
We  never  use  mace  or  nutmeg ;  in  our  method  of  cooking,  we  aim 
to  preserve  the  principal  flavor  of  every  dish,  and  consider  when  this 
is  accomplished,  the  perfection  of  cooking  is  attained. 

Mutton  Soup. — Boil  a  neck  of  mutton  in  as  many  quarts  of 
water  as  there  are  pounds  of  meat,  until  the  meat  drops  from  the 
bone.  Strain  the  soup  into  the  pot,  if  to  be  served  the  same  day  ;  if 
not,  into  a  stone  or  earthen  dish.  If  the  meat  is  wanted  in  other 
forms,  use  half  the  water,  and  boil  any  piece  of  mutton  on  hand. 
Remove  all  the  fat,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  onions,  thyme,  and 
parsley.    Boil  a  pint  of  green  peas,  mash  them  fine,  and  add  to  the 


64   .  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

soup.  Roll  a  half  teacup  of  butter  in  flour  to  make  a  paste,  {see 
Rolled  Butter,)  and  ten  minutes  before  dishing  add  it  to  the  soup. 
This  can  be  varied,  for  those  who  are  fond  of  vegetables  in  soup,  by 
adding  potatoes,  turnips,  Lima  beans,  cauliflower,  carrots,  or  cabbage. 
Lima  beans  can  be  used  instead  of  peas,  but  the  latter  are  the  best. 

French  Vegetable  Soup. — Boil  a  beef  soup  bone  as  directed  in 
Beef  Soup  No.  1,  straining  the  liquor.  For  six  quarts  of  soup,  take 
four  large,  or  six  small  potatoes,  one  large  or  two  small  parsnips,  two 
large  or  four  small  onions,  one  large  or  two  small  carrots.  Peel  the 
vegetables,  and  put  them  in  the  pot  to  boil.  When  tender,  skim 
them  all  from  the  soup,  and  pass  them  through  a  wire  sieve,  beat 
them  well  together,  and  stir  them  in  the  soup.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt,  French  mustard  mixed,  and  tomato  catsup ;  the  two  last  [to  be 
added  just  before  dishing.  The  soup  should  be  as  thick  as  good 
water  gruel,  when  finished.    Be  careful  not  to  scorch  it. 

Brown  Chicken  Soup. — Cut  up  a  nicely  dressed  chicken.  Put 
it  in  the  pot  with  water  to  cover  it,  which  must  be  measured,  and 
half  as  much  more  added  to  it  before  the  soup  is  dished.  Keep  it 
covered  tight,  boiling  slowly,  and  take  off  the  fat  as  fast  as  it  rises. 
"When  the  chicken  is  tender,  take  it  from  the  pot,  and  mince  it  very 
fine.  Season  it  to  the  taste,  and  brown  it  with  butter,  in  a  spider,  or 
dripping  pan.  When  brown,  put  it  back  in  the  pot.  Brown  together 
butter  and  flour,  and  make  rich  gravy,  by  adding  a  pint  of  the  soup ; 
stir  this  in  the  soup,  and  season  it  with  a  little  pepper,  salt,  and  but- 
ter. Be  careful  the  chopped  chicken  does  not  settle,  and  burn  on  the 
pot.  It  will  be  well  to  turn  a  small  plate  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle, 
to  prevent  this.  Toast  bread  quite  brown  and  dry,  but  don't  burn 
it,  and  lay  the  toast  in  the  tureen,  and  serve  it  with  the  soup ;  stir  the 
chicken  through  it,  and  pour  it  in  the  tureen. 

"White  Chicken  Soup. — Prepare  the  fowl,  as  in  brown  chicken 
soup,  with  the  same  quantity  of  water.  When  tender,  remove  it 
from  the  pot,  and  put  into  the  soup  a  half  teacup  of  washed  pearl 
barley.  Mince  the  meat  fine,  season  it,  and  make  it  into  balls  with 
egg  and  flour,  the  size  of  marbles.  Season  the  soup  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter.  If  the  barley  has  not  thickened  the  soup  sufficiently, 
add  a  little  flour  stirred  in  water.  Ten  minutes  before  dishing,  drop 
in  the  meat  balls.  The  soup  must  be  kept  only  boiling  hot,  or  the 
balls  will  break  in  pieces.  Toast  bread  lightly,  or  use  cracker  to 
crumb  in  the  soup  at  the  table.    Celery  and  sour  pickles  give  relish 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  GRAVIES.  65 

to  chicken  soups.    Babbits,  squirrels,  or  birds,  can  be  made  into  either 
white  or  brown  soups. 

Mook  Turtle  Soup. — Procure  from  market  a  oalf's  head.    Take 
off  the  scalp ;  separate  the  tongue  and  wash  it,  first  in  cold,  and 
then  in  warm  water,  to  draw  out  the  blood,  and  put  it  to  stew  in 
not  over  two  quarts  of  water  and  a  little  salt.    At  the  same  time  the 
head  (which  should  be  divided,  and  the  brains  taken  out)  must  lie 
in  lukewarm  water  to  draw  out  the  blood.    Break  the  bones  of  the 
head,  and  cleanse  those  of  the  nose  well.    Put  some  pieces  of  ham  or 
bacon  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  and  then  lay  the  bones  in  the  soup 
kettle,  with  water  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil.    While  the  head 
and  tongue  are  boiling,  the  vegetables  must  be  cooking  in  another 
pot.    Slice  two  turnips,  two  good-sized  onions,  a  table-spoon  half 
full  of  peppercorns,   a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of  whole  cloves,  a 
chopped  lemon  peel,  six  chopped  mushrooms,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  the 
same  of  thyme,  and  a  branch,  not  a  whole  head,  of  celery.    The  day 
before,  a  stock,  as  it  is  called,  should  have  been  made,  as  directed  in 
Veal  Soup  No.  1.    Bemove  all  fat,  and  put  in  with  the  vegetables 
enough  of  the  stock  to  cover  them,  let  them  simmer  until  tender,  be 
careful  they  do  not  boil  dry,  as  it  is  only  the  soup  in  which  they  are 
boiled  which  is  used ;  they  must  not  be  mashed,  merely  boiled  to 
abstract  the  flavor.    "When  this  is  accomplished,  strain  off  the  liquor, 
and  examine  the  head  and  tongue ;  if  tender,  remove  all  the  fat,  and 
add  the  liquor  to  that  in  which  the  vegetables  are  boiled.    Let  the  soup 
simmer  for  an  hour,  and  add  veal  stock  to  make  the  whole  about  three 
quarts.    Take  a  teacup  three-quarters  full  of  butter,  beat  in  it  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  add  enough  of  the  hot  soup  to  it,  to 
melt  and  thicken  it  a  little  at  a  time ;  then  stir  the  whole  in  the  soup. 
Chop  some  lean  veal  as  fine  as  possible,  rasp  some  bread,  and  beat  up 
as  many  eggs  as  will  moisten  the  whole ;  mix  thoroughly,  add  a  little 
Cayenne  pepper,  an  onion  chopped  fine,  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  worked  to  a  paste,  a  little  powdered  parsley,  and  thyme.    Mix 
well,  and  make  this  into  small  balls ;  have  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted 
water  ready,  put  the  balls  in  a  colander,  and  set  it  in  the  water  three 
minutes,  then  take  it  out  and  let  them  drain.    Divide  the  head,  skin 
the  tongue  and  divide  it,  put  them  into  the  soup,  and  when  boiling 
add  the  balls  of  force-meat.    If  not  seasoned  sufficiently,  add  pepper 
and  salt.     Those  not  fond  of  onions  cannot  use  this  soup,  for  if  these 
are  left  out,  it  would  be  another  thing  entirely.  _  Some  add  the  juice 
of  lemon.    The  brains  can  be  cooked  in  the  following  manner :  let 


them  steep  in  cold  water  until  the  blood  is  extracted,  separate  all  the 
filaments  and  membranes.  Then  lay  them  in  boiling  water  set  on 
the  stove,  and  allow  them  to  simmer  only  for  fifteen  minutes,  after  which 
drain  well,  fry  them  in  butter,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Turtle  Soup. — Procure  a  turtle  fresh  from  the  water :  if  in  win- 
ter, cut  off  the  head  the  night  before  cooking,  and  hang  it  up  by  the 
fins,  neck  down,  until  morning.     If  in  summer,  as  early  as  possible  in 
the  morning.    It  should  bleed  at  least  three  hours.     Cut  off  the  fore- 
fins  and  callipee  or  under  part,  take  out  the  entrails,  and  very  care- 
fully remove  the  gall ;  if  broken,  the  whole  is  ruined.    Eemove  all 
the  meat  from  the  bones,  both  callipash  or  upper,  and  callipee  or 
under  parts.    Divide  it  in  convenient  pieces  and  scald  them,  being 
very  careful  not  to  set  the  scales.    "When  cleansed,  chop  the  fins  in 
pieces  four  inches  long,  and  put  them  with  the  meat  in  the  pot,  with 
water  sufficient  to  cover  them.    Add  three  whole  onions  and  a  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs.    Eemove  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises.    When  nearly 
done,  take  them  from  the  pot.    Eemove  the  bones  from  the  fins, 
strain  the  liquor,  and  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  about  one-third  of  its 
original  quantity.     Cut  the  pieces  of  meat  quite  small,  not  larger 
than  half  an  inch  square.    Chop  fine  some  parsley,  onions,  thyme, 
savory,  and  marjoram.    Pound  some  mace,  cloves,  allspice,  black 
pepper,  and  salt ;  put  these  with  the  chopped  meat  in  a  pot.    Pour 
over  them  the  soup,  and  some  good  veal  stock.    Boil  gently  until 
three-fourths  done,  then  remove  the  meat,  and  strain  the  liquor  free 
from  the  herbs,  spices,  etc.    Thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  add  the 
meat,  and  lastly,  the  juice  of  five  or  six   lemons.     "When  served, 
have  force-meat  balls,  and  some  of  the  real  green  fat  previously  pre- 
pared to  dish  with  it.     "When  turtle  is  plenty,  the  veal  stock  need  not 
be  added.     This  and  the  mock-turtle  soup  are  communicated  recipe. 
The  writer  thinks,  from  the  source  received,  they  must  be  good,  but 
has  no  knowledge  of  them  from  her  own  experience.    Try  a  small 
soup  at  first  if  they  are  used. 

Feexch  Veal  Stock  for  Soups. — Cut  up  a  knuckle  of  veal,  of 
lean  ham  one  pound ;  add  a  peeled  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  celery,  and 
one  quart  of  water.  Put  in  a  cut-up  fowl,  and  as  much  beef  soup  as 
will  cover  the  whole  ;  boil  gently  one  hour,  salt,  and  strain  it ;  let  it 
become  cold,  and  remove  all  fat.  Be  very  careful  not  to  scorch,  as, 
if  so,  it  will  not  do  for  white  soup. 

Vermicelli  Soup. — Take  two  quarts  of  the  above  stock,  heat  it, 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  GRAVIES.  67 

add  half  a  pound  of  vermicelli,  and  cook  slowly  until  it  is  tender. 
If  boiled  hard,  it  will  burst  the  vermicelli,  and  make  the  soup  too 
thick. 

Macaroni  Soup. — Boil  until  tender  a  pound  of  macaroni,  in  a 
quart  of  good  stock,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Then  remove  about 
half  of  it,  add  a  little  more  stock,  and  boil  until  the  macaroni  can  be 
passed  through  a  sieve.  Mix  with  it  as  much  stock  as  will  make  the 
soup  of  the  proper  thickness,  and  add  to  it  in  the  tureen  a  pint  of 
sweet  cream ;  flavor  to  suit.  Serve  with  biscuits  or  crackers.  Kice 
and  barley  soup  can  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  without  straining 
the  barley  or  rice  through  the  sieve. 

To  Make  Leason.— Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  until  light,  with 
half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream  with  a  little  salt.  This  is  very  nice  for 
thickening  veal  soups  of  any  kind  that  are  to  be  white.  It  is  some- 
times made  with  blanched  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste,  and  mixed 
with  the  cream  and  eggs.  The  latter  would  be  the  best  in  fancy 
soups  made  with  game,  etc.  For  dark  soups,  brown  butter  and  flour, 
and  add  some  of  the  stock ;  it  should  be  as  thick  as  cream,  and  free 
from  lumps. 

GRAVIES   FOR   MEATS. 

Drawn  Butter. — Take  two  ounces  of  sweet  butter,  a  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  two  of  sweet  milk.  "Work  the  butter  and 
flour  together,  then  add  the  milk.  Put  it  in  a  small  saucepan  on  a 
slow  fire ;  when  melted,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet  milk,  mixed  in 
six  of  water ;  keep  the  saucepan  moving,  managing  it  so  that  the 
contents  always  move  the  same  way.  "When  it  commences  to  sim- 
mer and  looks  thick  and  creamy,  set  it  down  and  allow  it  to  gently 
boil  up.  Pour  it  in  the  tureen  as  soon  as  boiled.  This  is  a  proper 
sauce  for  boiled  fish,  mutton,  lamb,  turkeys,  and  game  of  all  Muds, 
but  should  never  be  used  for  roasts.  It  can  be  varied  by  the  addition 
of  celery,  or  any  spices  desired.  When  intended  to  be  mixed  with 
catsups  or  essences,  it  must  be  nearly  as  thick  as  thin  batter. 

To  Clarify  Butter. — Put  sweet  butter  in  a  clean  saucepan,  let 
it  melt  slowly,  and  skim  off  the  buttermilk  as  it  rises  to  the  surfaoe ; 
when  entirely  melted,  let  it  stand  a  few  moments  to  settle,  and  then 
strain  it  into  a  clean  pot.  If  strong,  the  best  plan  is  to  heat  it  hot- 
enough  to  fry,  and  slice  raw  potatoes  very  thin,  and  fry  them  brown 
in  the  butter.  Skim  them  out,  and  let  it  settle,  and  strain  it  in  a 
crock. 


68 

To  Oil  Butter  for  Frying  Fish. — Melt  butter  over  steam  until 
very  hot.  The  water  should  not  be  boiling  when  the  pan  is  set  on 
the  kettle.  Allow  it  to  stand  quiet  until  the  salt  has  settled,  then 
pour  it  off,  leaving  the  sediment  which  settles  in  the  pan.  When 
butter  is  used  with  the  salt  in  it,  to  fry  meats  or  fish,  it  is  apt  to  burn, 
but  when  oiled  there  is  no  more  danger  of  scorching  than  when  fry- 
ing in  lard. 

Brown  Butter. — Put  into  a  spider  as  much  butter  as  needed. 
Let  it  melt  slowly  at  first,  then  allow  it  to  cook  slowly  until  quite 
brown.  If  wanted  immediately,  add  to  it  any  gravy  desired.  If  not, 
add  a  little  vinegar  and  pepper,  and  pour  it  in  a  pot  until  wanted. 

Gravy  for  Eoast  Beef,  No.  1. — Take  the  drippings  and  water 
in  which  the  beef  was  basted,  remove  as  much  of  the  fat  as  possible, 
pour  off  most  of  the  water  with  the  oil,  set  the  dripping-pan  on  the 
stove,  with  the  sediment  of  the  drippings,  let  it  brown ;  put  a  little  of 
the  gravy  in  the  pan,  and  thicken  it  with  a  trifle  of  flour.  The  flour 
should  not  be  perceived  in  the  gravy. 

Gravy  for  Roast  Beef,  No.  2. — Melt  a  little  salt  in  a  gill  of 
water,  pour  it  over  a  roast  when  put  in  the  oven,  place  under  it  an 
earthen  dish  to  catch  the  drippings.  Baste  often  for  a  half  hour,  then 
set  it  to  cool.  When  cool,  remove  all  fat,  heat  the  gravy,  and  pour  it 
over  the  roast.    For  a-la-mode  beef  add  wine. 

Teal  Gravy  for  Roasts. — For  roasts,  make  a  gravy  of  the  drip- 
pings in  the  same  manner  as  for  beef.  Or  brown  butter,  and  add 
water,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  flour. 

Gravy  for  Mutton,  Roast  Lamb,  and  Venison.  —Stew  a  little 
mutton,  cut  in  bits,  in  as  little  water  as  will  cover  it,  for  an  hour.  Then 
drain  off  the  gravy,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  rub  a  little  but- 
ter and  flour  together  to  thicken  it.    This  is  proper  for  venison  also. 

Green  Mint  Sauce. — The  French  use  this  for  boiled  lamb.  It  is 
made  by  putting  green  mint,  chopped  fine,  and  parsley,  in  vinegar. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Prepare  a  nice  drawn  butter,  quite  thick,  scald 
sufficient  oysters  in  a  little  water,  and  stir  them  in  the  butter ;  mix 
well,  and  let  the  sauce  nearly  boil,  after  which  pour  them  into  the 
tureen. 

Gravy  for  Beef  or  any  other  Steak. — Put  on  a  platter,  foi 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  GRAVIES.  69 

two  slices  of  steak,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Add  a  little  salt,  a  dust  of  pepper,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
hot  water.    Do  not  let  it  boil,  but  just  melt  and  keep  warm. 

Lobster  Sauce. — Mash  the  eggs  of  the  hen  lobster,  squeeze  them 
through  a  muslin  bag.  Divide  the  flesh  of  a  boiled  lobster  into  small 
bits ;  roll  them  in  flour ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with  enough  butter 
and  sweet  cream  or  milk  to  make  the  sauce  needed ;  let  it  simmer 
two  or  three  minutes,  then  add  the  eggs.  Remove  it  as  soon  as  it 
turns  a  brilliant  red. 

Egg  Sauce  for  Salt  Fish. — Boil  eggs  hard,  allow  three  to  half  a 
pint  of  thin  drawn  butter,  use  all  the  yolks,  but  only  half  of  the  whites, 
which  must  be  chopped  fine  ;  mix  well. 

Catsup  Sauce  for  Fish. — Mix  half  a  pint  of  walnut  catsup  with^t 
gill  of  grated  horseradish,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  made  mustard,  and  a  gill 
of  vinegar  from  nasturtiums.  This  is  not  to  be  poured  over  fish,  but 
used  as  a  catsup. 

"Wine  Sauce  for  Venison. — One  gill  of  mutton  broth,  the  same  of 
port  wine,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  currant  jelly;  heat  them  nearly 
boiling  hot,  then  thicken  with  the  yolk  of  one  egg. 

Sour  Sauce  for  Venison. — Ifrown,  not  burn,  a  coffee  cup  of  sugar 
in  an  iron  kettle.  Take  it  out,  and  dissolve  it  in  half  a  pint  of  strong 
vinegar;  heat  it,  and  add  a  gill  of  cranberry  juice  or  jelly ;  serve  hot. 

Mushroom  Sauce. — Pound  fine  a  pint  of  mushrooms  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  a  little  flour,  work  it  well  together  over  hot 
water,  and  moisten  with  cream,  or  the  gravy  from  veal  or  poultry; 
season  high ;  add  lemon  juice,  if  desired,  if  no  cream  is  used. 

Gooseberry  Sauce  for  Boiled  Lamb. — Stir  a  half  pint  of  goose- 
berries, after  they  have  been  scalded,  into  a  pint  of  drawn  butter — 
and  serve  hot. 

Bread  Sauce  for  Poultry  and  Game. — Pour  boiling  water  on 
bread  crumbs,  mash  them  fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  summer 
savory.  Beat  well,  add  water  to  thin  the  sauce,  and,  lastly,  stir  in 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Or  make  the  sauce  thick  without  butter, 
and  thin  it  "with  drawn  butter. 

Gravy  £or  Game. — Take  the  stock  of  beef  or  veal  soup,  boil  the 


70  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

hearts,  livers,  gizzards,  and  lights,  in  the  soup.  When  done,  chop, 
them  fine,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  thicken  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg. 

Liver  Sauce. — Boil  liver  in  very  little  water,  until  tender ;  mash 
it,  and  pass  it  through  a  sieve ;  season  very  high  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Take  what  is  needed  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  mix  in  the 
mashed  liver,  add  to  a  pint  of  the  sauce  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  let  it  boil,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  remove  the  sauce,  stir 
it  well,  then  stir  in  the  egg.  This  can  be  made  of  any  liver.  If  of 
fish,  it  can  only  be  used  as  a  sauce  for  them.  It  is  fine  with  steamed 
or  roasted  liver.  The  same  liver  that  forms  the  sauce,  is  the  proper 
dish  to  serve  it  with. 

Giblet  Sauce. — Take  the  livers,  lights,  gizzards,  and  hearts,  from 
fowls.  Boil  very  tender,  chop  them  fine.  Make  a  nice  thin  drawn- 
butter,  and  stir  them  in ;  or  boil  and  chop  them,  and  use  the  water  in 
which  they  were  boiled ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  add  them,  and  keep  the  sauce  stirring  until 
it  thickens.     This  sauce  is  lest  for  roast  fowls. 

Forcemeats,  or  Dressings  for  Pigs. — Soak  bread,  until  it  can  be 
mashed  fine,  work  into  it  butter,  peeper,  salt,  thyme,  or  savory  and 
sage,  ground  and  sifted. 

Dressing  for  Fowls. — Prepare  bread  as  above,  omitting  the  sage. 

Dressing  for  Yeal. — Prepare  as  above,  seasoning  with  pepper 
and  salt  only. 

Dressing  for  Duck  and  Goose. — Use  all  the  seasonings  except 
sage,  and  chop  an  onion  fine  for  each  duck. 

Dressing  for  Rabbits. — Boil  the  liver,  chop  it  fine,  chop  bread 
fine,  mix  it  with  the  liver;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  wet  it  with 
egg. 

Deesslng  for  Boiled  Turkey. — Make  a  dressing  of  chopped 
bread  and  oysters,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dampen  with  hot 
water  in  which  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  is  melted. 

Boiled  Fish  Deesslng. — Crumb  the  bread,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  wet  with  drawn  butter  or  egg. 


SOUPS,  SAUCES,  AND  GRAVIES.  71 

Dressing  for  A-la-mode  Beef. — Prepare  bread  crumbs,  work  in 
plenty  butter,  add  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  allspice,  and  nutmeg ;  mix  it 
with  egg. 

Dressing  for  Pigeons,  Boiled. — For  boiled  pigeons,  soak  bread 
crumbs,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 

For  Roast  Pigeons. — Boil  and  mash  the  livers  fine,  and  mix 
them  with  soaked  bread;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  summer 
savory. 

Dressing  for  Blackbirds. — Toast  bread  lightly  and  mix  with  it 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  enough  egg  to  moisten  the  dressing  without 
softening  it. 

Dressing  for  Partridges,  Quails,  etc. — Prepare  a  nice  dressing 
with  crackers  soaked  soft  in  sweet  milk,  beat  up  an  egg  and  mix  with 
it,  add  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  a  mashed  potato  free  from  lumps  ; 
mix  all  well  together ;  if  too  soft,  add  rolled  cracker.  It  should  be 
quite  firm. 

PUDDING  SAUCES. 
Rose  Hip  Sauce. — Open  and  remove  the  seeds  from  rose  hips. 
Soak  them  and  boil  until  tender,  reducing  the  hips  to  paste,  pass  them 
through  a  sieve,  stir  them  in  boiling,  wine,  and  sweeten  to  taste.    The 
sauce  should  be  as  thick  as  thin  cream. 

Cherry  Sauce. — Bruise  one  pound  of  cherries,  with  the  pits,  in 
their  own  juice  until  the  meat  of  the  pits  is  tender,  then  pass  as  much 
of  the  mass  through  a  sieve  as  possible,  add  a  pint  of  wine,  sugar  to 
the  taste,  and  boil  until  of  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  (This  and 
the  preceding  receipt  are  from  the  German.)  Spices  can  be  added,  if 
desired. 

Hard  Sauce. — Stir  to  a  light  cream  one  cup  of  sweet  butter,  and 
two  of  pulverized  loaf  sugar ;  grate  over  it  a  little  nutmeg  after  it  is 
turned  into  the  dish  to  send  to  the  table.  This  can  be  varied  in  many 
ways,  adding  spices,  extracts,  etc.  '  For  all  apple-puddings  the  nutmeg 
flavoring  is  the  best.  For  cream  and  plain  batter-pudding,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  and  thin  a  little  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water. 
For  rice-puddings  the  addition  of  a  little  lemon  juice,  wine,  or  brandy 
is  proper.    For  dumplings  no  spice  should  be  used. 

Sour  Sauce. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  and  one  of  strong 


72  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

vinegar ;  stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  heat  the  vinegar  boil- 
ing hot,  beat  an  egg  very  light,  stir  the  egg  into  the  butter  and  sugar ; 
mix  well,  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  and  pour  the  boiling  vinegar,  little 
by  little,  in  the  sugar,  egg,  and  butter;  when  well  mixed,  pour  the 
sauce  into  the  saucepan,  and  heat  nearly  to  boiling,  without  allowing 
it  to  boil,  stirring  constantly.  If  the  sauce  is  prepared  before  the 
dinner  is  served,  set  the  saucepan  in  hot  water  on  the  hearth,  where 
it  will  keep  hot  without  congealing. 

Brandy  Sauce. — Heat  over  steam,  in  a  covered  saucepan,  a  half 
pint  of  brandy,  beat  two  eggs  light,  and  cream  a  cup  of  butter  with 
two  of  sugar ;  beat  the  eggs  into  the  sugar  and  butter,  take  off  the 
brandy,  and  beat  the  eggs,  sugar,  butter,  and  brandy  together,  stirring 
the  brandy  into  the  other  ingredients  slowly,  beating  quickly  while 
mixing ;  continue  to  beat  the  sauce  until  the  whole  is  well  mixed, 
After  which  keep  it  in  hot  water  until  needed.  Brandy  should  be 
covered  tightly,  as  it  not  only  evaporates,  but  is  in  danger  of  taking 
fire.    It  must  always  be  heated  over  steam. 

Sweet  Sauce. — Stir  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  butter,  with  two  of 
sugar ;  pour  into  the  butter  and  sugar  a  teacup  of  boiling  water ; 
beat  an  egg  light,  and  mix  it  gradually  with  the  other  ingredients 
before  they  become  hot ;  mix  half  a  teaspoon  of  flour  in  a  little  cold 
water,  free  from  lumps ;  stir  it  into  the  sauce,  and  beat  the  whole 
constantly  until  hot  enough  to  thicken ;  add  nutmeg.  This  is  proper 
for  all  boiled  puddings,  especially  berry,  and  also  baked  berry-puddings. 

Peach  Sauce. — Out  fine  six  juicy  peaches ;  crack  the  pits,  and  put 
the  kernels  with  the  fruit  in  a  porcelain-lined  stew-pan  ;  lay  the  fruit 
flat  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  half  cover  it  with  water,  and  cover 
tight.  Set  the  pan  in  hot  water,  and  let  it  steam  one  hour.  Then 
pour  the  fruit  and  juice  in  a  hair  sieve,  to  drain ;  when  it  ceases  to 
drop,  take  the  juice,  and  use  it  exactly  as  the  vinegar  in  sour  sauce, 
with  the  same  proportions  of  sugar  and  butter,  omitting  the  egg,  and 
spice,  and  thicken  with  very  little  flour.  Any  other  fruit  can  be  used 
in  the  same  manner. 

Maple  Syrup  for  Puddings. — Boil  maple-sugar  with  very  little 
water,  clarify  with  egg,  and  strain  the  syrup.  Vary  by  melting  a 
little  butter  in  it  after  straining.  "When  maple-sugar  is  expensive,  use 
half  coffee-sugar.  Coffee-sugar  syrup,  made  as  above,  is  the  next 
thing  to  maple-syrup. 


. 


SOUPS,    SAUCES,   AND    GRAVIES*.  73 

Common  West  India  Molasses  is  much  improved  by  heating,  and 
skimming.  If  butter  is  added,  it  makes  a  good  sauce  for  children  to 
eat  with  rice ;  sugar-house,  Stewart's,  and  other  syrups,  are  improved 
by  heating. 

Cream  Sauce.— Cream  and  sugar  is  very  nice  on  many  puddings. 
Cottage  and  boiled  Indian  puddings  are  better  with  sweet  cream.  For 
rice  plain  boiled,  many  prefer  cream  a  little  sour.  Cornstarch  is  best 
with  cream  beaten  stiff,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla  or  bitter 
almonds. 

"Wine  Sauce,  No.  1. — One  cup  of  butter,  and  two  of  sugar  beaten  to 
a  cream,  beat  four  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  without  separating,  and 
add  them  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  heat  a  pint  of  wine  boiling  hot,  and 
stir  it  in  the  mixture ;  beat  well,  heat  nearly  boiling  hot,  and  set  it  in 
hot  water  until  wanted  for  the  table. 

"Wine  Sauoe,  No.  2. — Beat  together  two  coffee-cups  of  sugar  and 
half  a  cup  of  butter ;  add  a  cup  of  wine  slowly  to  the  sugar  and 
butter ;  beat  it  well,  and  melt  it  over  steam,  but  do  not  stir  it  while 
melting.    Brandy  sauce  can  be  made  as  above. 

Wine  Sauce,  No.  3. — Beat  together  half  a  cup  of  butter,  and  two 
of  sugar ;  beat  light  two  eggs,  and  stir  them  in  the  sugar  and  butter ; 
heat  boiling-hot  half  a  cup  of  wine,  and  stir  it  into  the  other  ingre- 
dients. Let  it  become  hot,  constantly  stirring,  when  it  may  stand  in 
hot  water  until  wanted. 

Plain  Sweet  Sauce. — A  half  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  half  teacup 
of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  an  even  teaspoon  of  flour  stirred  in  a  little 
water,  and 'freed  from  lumps  ;  beat  the  mixture  while  heating  until  it 
boils ;  add  nutmeg. 

Plain  Sour  Sauce. — Ingredients  as  above,  substituting  vinegar 
for  water ;  if  not  sufficiently  sweet,  add  sugar. 

Orange  Sauce. — Half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  beat  light, 
and  a  teacup  of  fresh  orange  juice. 

Egg  Sauce. — Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  very  light.  Froth  a 
teacup  of  cream,  and  stir  it  in  the  eggs ;  sweeten  to  suit  the  taste. 
This  is  a  good  sauce  for  rice  ;  flavorings  can  be  added. 

Dyspepsia  Sauce. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  as 
large  as  a  butternut,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  little 
vanilla,  bitter  almond,  lemon,  or  nutmeg,  as  fancied ;  melt  the  butter 
4 


74 

in  the  milk,  constantly  beating  it ;  take  the  milk  from  the  fire,  and 
beat  it  until  cool.  Stir  a  little  of  the  milk  in  the  yolks  ;  beat  it  well, 
and  add  them  to  the  milk,  beating  the  milk  briskly  ;  when  the  egg  is 
mixed  in,  put  the  sauce  on  a  slow  fire,  and  beat  it  constantly  until 
it  thickens  a  little,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  add  sugar  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  beat  it  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  spice  or  flavoring. 
Set  it  where  it  will  not  cook  or  cool.  It  should  be  as  thick  as  rich 
cream,  without  settling  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 


CHAPTER    II, 

FISH. 


To  Clean  Fish. — Fish  should  be  cleaned  as  soon  as  possible,  after 
being  taken  from  the  water.  Be  very  particular  to  remove  the  scales 
without  mangling  the  fish  ;  lay  the  fish  flat  on  the  fish-board,  hold  it 
firmly  down  with  the  left  hand,<  and  remove  the  scales  with  a  round 
pointed  knife  ;  rinse  the  fish,  by  dashing  cold  water  over  it,  to  remove 
all  loose  scales ;  lay  it  in  water  while  rinsing  the  fish-board,  that  the 
loose  scales  on  fish  and  board  may  not  adhere  to  the  fish  while  being 
drawn;  draw  the  fish  without  splitting  it  down  any  farther  than 
necessary  to  effect  the  removal  of  the  entrails ;  be  careful  that  every 
part  of  the  entrails  are  removed ;  scrape  the  back-bone  clean,  and  rinse 
out  all  the  blood ;  lay  the  fish  on  ice  as  soon  as  cleansed,  and  keep  it 
there  until  the  moment  for  cooking,  to  preserve  the  fish  firm ;  fish  soften 
very  soon,  and  the  perfection  of  them  is  firm  flesh  ;  fresh-water  fish 
are  soft  after  the  water  becomes  warm,  and  unfit  to  eat.  They  should 
be  taken  as  soon  as  the  ice  can  be  broken,  to  be  of  first-rate  quality ; 
indeed,  it  is  doubtful  about  fish  being  healthy,  when  softened  by  warm 
running  water.  The  best  fish,  peculiar  to  our  lakes,  are  the  white 
and  Mackinaw  trout ;  these  are  seldom  taken  in  the  southern  part  of 
the  lakes,  except  very  early  in  the  spring ;  they  frequent  cold  or  deep 
i  water  ;  the  farther  north  they  are  taken,  in  the  summer  season,  the  bet- 
ter the  fish.  Many  varieties  are  common  both  to  the  lakes  and  rivers ; 
but  the  greater  purity  of  the  water  always  give  the  lake  fish  the  ad- 
vantage as  to  quality. 

General  Directions  for  Boiling  Fish. — An  oblong  kettle  with  a 
tin  strainer,  is  the  proper  vessel  in  which  to  boil  fish  :  they  arc  called 


FISH.  75 

fish-kettles ;  when  this  is  not  to  be  had,  dredge  a  towel  with  flour,  and 
wrap  the  fish  in  it  evenly,  so  that  when  unrolled,  it  can  be  dished 
without  breaking.  Select  fish  with  lively  prominent  eyes,  red  gills, 
firm  flesh,  and  stiff  body,  have  them  well  cleansed,  and  rinsed  before 
boiling,  and  if  stuffed,  bind  them  firmly  with  strips  of  cotton  or  tape  ; 
cover  the  fish  with  cold  water  ;  throw  in  a  little  salt,  and  boil  gently 
and  constantly  ;  do  not  let  the  water  get  too  low,  and  see  that  each 
part  of  the  fish  is  constantly  covered  ;  do  not  allow  the  water  to  boil 
unevenly,  but  let  the  heat  be  strongest  under  the  middle  of  the  kettle, 
otherwise  the  fish  will  break  ;  remove  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises.  It 
takes  the  same  length  of  time  to  boil  a  pound  of  fish  as  the  same 
weight  of  flesh.  To  try  if  the  fish  is  done,  run  a  thin  sharp  knife 
through  it,  touching  the  back-bone ;  if  it  adheres,  it  is  not  done ;  do 
not  let  the  fish  lie  in  the  water  a  moment  after  it  is  done,  as  it  will 
soon  lose  its  flavor,  besides  presenting  a  poor  appearance.  Drain 
the  water  through  the  strainer,  or  if  in  a  cloth,  lay  it  on  a  sieve, 
where  it  will  keep  hot ;  cover  the  fish  with  a  napkin  folded  thick, 
heat  the  fish-platter,  lay  it  on  carefully  without  breaking,  and  keep 
it  hot  and  dry  until  the  soup  is  served ;  do  not  place  it  on  the  table 
until  wanted,  as  it  cools  very  quickly.  Most  cooks  add  a  little  vinegar 
to  fish  while  boiling,  when  nearly  done.  If  fish  are  underdone,  they 
are  very  disgusting ;  if  overdone,  tasteless  and  insipid.  Serve  with 
sauces  composed  of  drawn  butter;  potatoes  mashed  should  be  the 
principal  vegetable.  Horseradish  is  always  a  good  relish  for  boiled  fish. 
Milk  and  water  is  better  than  clear  water  to  boil  fish  in. 

To  Boil  Lobsters. — Put  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  water, 
allowing  four  table-spoonfuls  to  each  gallon ;  boil  from  a  half  to  one 
hour. 

To  Boil  Crabs. — Boil  the  same  as  lobsters. 

To  Boil  Sea  Fish  Fresh. — Soak,  some  time  before  dressing,  in 
cold  water,  in  which  throw  a  handful  of  salt ;  always  notch  the  back 
before  putting  them  in  the  kettle ;  salt  the  water,  and  let  it  heat 
gradually,  boil  gently,  or  they  will  break  in  pieces.  A  fish  weighing 
eight  pounds,  will  boil  in  half  an  hour. 

To  Boil  Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders. — Tie  them  in  cloth,  and  put 
them  in  cold  salted  water ;  they  will  be  done  in  half  an  hour. 

To  Boil  Mackerel  Fresh. — Boil  gently  ;  the  fish  should  be  fresh, 
and  boiled  in  salted  water. 


76 

Rook  Fish. — Rock  fish,  bass,  and  some  other  kinds  of  fish,  are 
boiled  plain,  leaving  on  the  head  and  tail.  It  will  take  a  half-hour 
steady  boiling ;  serve  with  drawn  butter,  in  which  mix  hard-boiled 
eggs  chopped  fine ;  the  eggs  should  boil  one  hour.  This  may  seem 
strange,  but  for  some  reason,  an  egg  boiled  an  hour  is  quite  different 
from  one  boiled  five  minutes. 

To  Boil  White  Fish,  Pike,  etc. — Prepare  a  dressing  with  bread- 
crumbs, boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Fill  the 
body  of  the  fish,  and  bind  it  firmly  with  slips  of  cloth ;  boil  gently, 
until  thoroughly  cooked ;  remove  it  to  the  platter,  and  set  it  in  the 
oven  a  few  moments  to  dry ;  boil  eggs  hard,  slice  and  lay  them  in  the 
platter,  around  the  fish,  and  just  before  serving  pour  over  the  fish  a 
little  drawn  butter ;  prepare  a  sauce  in  this  manner,  namely,  boil  six 
eggs  one  hour,  work  the  yolks,  until  they  become  a  paste,  with  a 
wooden  spoon  ;  take  a  teacup  nearly  full  of  sweet  butter,  mix  in  it  a 
heaping  table-spoonful  of  flour,  work  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  then 
stir  gently,  little  by  little,  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  add  a  little  salt, 
if  needed,  and  pepper ;  but,  if  the  butter  is  salted  much,  no  salt  will  be 
required. 

To  Boil  Feesh  Salmon. — Salmon  should  be  plunged  in  boiling 
water ;  the  water  should  be  put  in  the  kettle,  allowing  a  handful  of 
salt  to  four  quarts  water ;  let  the  water  boil  until  all  the  scum,  arising 
from  the  mixture  of  the  salt  with  the  water,  has  been  removed,  before 
putting  in  the  fish.  Salmon  should  be  dressed  as  soon  as  taken  from 
the  water  to  be  perfect,  the  flesh  becoming  soft  very  soon.  The  Ger- 
man method  of  treating  fish,  besides  being  less  cruel,  renders  the  fish 
firmer :  As  soon  as  caught,  instead  of  leaving  the  poor  fish  to  struggle 
and  die  by  inches,  they  take  it  by  the  tail  and  knock  it  on  the  head, 
killing  it  instantly.  It  is  said,  fish  treated  thus,  remain  firm  longer 
than  those  that  die  a  lingering  death. 

A  salmon  should  be  of  a  bright  color,  scales  clear,  eyes  bright,  and 
gills  very  red.  Allow,  in  boiling,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  every  pound 
of  fish ;  serve  with  drawn  butter,  or  simply  cover  it  with  sweet  but- 
ter; serve  for  vegetables,  mashed  potatoes,  and  cucumbers  sliced 
in  vinegar,  or  for  a  dinner  party,  the  cucumbers  only.  Cook  in  the 
same  manner  the  salmon  trout  from  the  upper  lakes.  When  salmon 
are  transported,  pack  them  in  ice  as  soon  as  out  of  the  water,  killing 
them  after  the  German  method. 

To  Boil  Feesh  Shad. — If  you  wish  to  keep  shad  for  a  day  or 


FISH.  77 

two,  scald  and  dress  it  when  perfectly  fresh ;  split  open  the  belly, 
wipe  it  quite  dry,  and  scatter  a  table-spoon  of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  and  one  of  pepper,  and  keep  it  on  ice ;  and  before  cooking,  wipe 
off  all  the  seasoning ;  till  the  body  of  the  fish  with  a  dressing  of  bread 
and  butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  moistened  with  water; 
put  the  fish  in  cold  water,  and  boil  until  quite  done ;  or  boil  without 
the  dressing,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter,  or  sweet  butter  laid  on 
the  fish.  • 

To  Boil  Salted  Shad. — Soak  them,  and  change  the  water  once ; 
remove  the  scales  and  boil  until  well  done ;  lay  them  on  a  heated 
platter,  and  pour  over  them  fresh  sweet  butter. 

To  Boil  Salted  Salmon. — Soak  them  over  night,  cleanse  them 
thoroughly,  and  boil  gently  ;  serve  with  plain  drawn  butter. 

To  Boil  a  Salted  Mackerel. — Soak  in  milk  and  water,  over 
night,  and  boil  gently ;  for  sauce  use  drawn  butter,  and  serve  with 
it  mashed  potatoes. 

To  Boil  Salted  Cod. — Cut  a  thick  nice  piece  of  the  fish,  soak  it 
over  night,  in  the  morning  change  the  water,  and  stand  the  pot  where 
it  will  only  keep  warm  ;  change  the  water  again  about  ten  in  the 
morning ;  cover  it  with  fresh  tepid  water,  and  let  it  become  so  hot  that 
it  is  uncomfortable  to  the  hand  ;  keep  the  water  evenly  hot,  but  on  no 
account  let  it  boil,  for  two  hours,  when  it  will  be  done ;  remove  all  the 
skin,  cut  hard  eggs  and  place  them  on  and  around  the  fish,  and  pour 
over  it  nice  drawn  butter.  Boil  nice  white  potatoes  without  the  skin, 
and  dish  them  plain  ;  have  a  gravy-boat  of  drawn  butter  on  the  table 
to  add,  when  serving  the  fish  and  potatoes,  as  most  persons  prefer  to 
mash  them  with. the  fish;  serve  cucumbers,  or  if  out  of  season,  pickles 
or  nasturtiums.  The  cold  fish  will  make  a  fine  hash  for  breakfast, 
mixed  with  mashed  potatoes  and  drawn-butter;  dried  codfish,  if 
boiled,  is  hard  and  very  poor  eating ;  but  prepared  in  this  manner,  it 
is  as  good  as  the  cod  that  is  transported  on  4ce,  although  much  infe- 
rior to  the  fish  when  fresh  caught. 

To  Boil  Sturgeon. — This  fish  should  be  parboiled  before  being 
cooked  in  any  form,  in  plenty  of  water  once  or  twice,  according  to  the 
tastes  of  the  family.    To  many  its  strong  fishy  taste  is  very  disagreeable. 

Boiled  Tttebot. — After  the  fish  is  dressed,  soak  it  two  hours  in 
salted  water,  and  half  an  hour  in  cold  ice- water ;  score  the  back,  rub 


78 

it  dry,  and  bathe  it  in  lemon-juice  ;  have  a  large  fish-kettle  ready,  lay 
it  on  its  back,  cover  with  cold  water  a  little  salted,  and  boil  gently, 
remove  all  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises ;  the  last  hour  it  should  simmer 
gently,  without  boiling.  Some  cooks  advise  keeping  turb  ots  two  or 
three  days  before  cooking. 

Boiled  Cods'  Tonoues  and  Sounds. — If  salted,  soak  them  all  night, 
change  the  water  in  the  morning,  and  simmer  gentty,  until  well  done ; 
serve  with  drawn  butter  or  egg-sauce. 

To  Bake  a  Laege  Fish  "Whole. — Cut  off  the  head,  and  split  the 
fish  nearly  down  to  the  tail ;  prepare  a  nice  dressing  of  bread,  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt,  moistened  with  a  little  water.  Fill  the  fish,  and  bind 
it  together  with  small  cotton  cord  or  tape,  so  as  to  confine  it ;  the 
bindings  may  be  three  inches  apart ;  lay  the  fish  on  a  grate  in  a  bake- 
pan,  if  you  have  one ;  if  not,  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  pour  around  it 
a  very  little  water  with  butter  melted  in  it ;  and  baste  it  frequently.  A 
good-sized  but  not  over-large  fish  will  bake  in  an  hour ;  serve,  with 
the  gravy  of  the  fish,  drawn  butter  or  oyster  sauce.  Those  who  are 
accustomed  to  -wines  in  fish  will  relish  a  baked  fish  basted  in  wine 
and  water,  but  this  will  suit  but  few  tastes.  Choose  the  middle  of  a 
cod,  haddock,  or  any  fish  too  large  to  bake  whole.  Serve  baked  cod 
with  oyster  sauce. 

To  Boast  a  Lobstee. — When  the  lobster  is  more  than  half  boiled, 
take  it  from  the  water,  set  it  before  the  fire,  and  baste  it  with  butter 
until  well  done. 

To  Bake  a  Shad.— Clean  the  fish,  wash  and  wipe  it  dry.  Split 
the  fish,  and  fill  it  with  dressing  of  bread  and  butter  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  bind  the  fish  with  cord  or  tape,  rub  it  with  salt,  and 
put  it  to  bake ;  when  in  the  bake-pan,  lay  on  the  fish  bits  of  butter ; 
let  it  bake  slowly  until  well  done.  Fish  are  often  baked  without  any 
dressing.  Shad  and  other  fish  are  sometimes  roasted  before  the  fire 
on  planks  for  the  purpose ;  they  are  very  nice,  and  when  roasted  in 
this  manner,  no  stufting  is  used.  In  dishing  baked  fish,  be  careful  to 
leave  them  whole  ;  a  mangled  fish  looks  very  badly  on  the  table. 

To  Fey  Fish. — The  secret  of  frying  fish  well,  consists  in  having 
enough  fat  in  the  spider ;  let  them  fry  very  slowly  over  a  moderate  and 
steady  heat. 

To  Fey  Salmon  Cutlets.— Cut  slices  from  a  salmon  half  an  inch 


FISH.  79 

thick,  rub  them  over  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  them  in  the  beaten 
yolk  of  eggs,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  fat  slowly.  They  should  be  put  in 
the  fat  while  it  is  hot,  and  turned  immediately  and  often  until  done ; 
serve  plain. 

To  Fey  Shad. — Cut  the  fish  in  pieces,  rinse  and  wipe  dry ;  rub 
over  the  fish  a  little  salt ;  and  when  it  has  melted  roll  them  in  flour 
heat  the  fat,  tried  from  salt  pork,  or  oiled  butter,  nearly  boiling  hot 
lay  in  the  fish  the  skin  side  up  ;  fry  until  brown,  and  then  turn  them 
cook  slowly  without  burning  ;  serve  plain.    Horseradish  makes  a  fine 
relish  for  fish. 

To  Fry  Trout. — Dry  them  thoroughly,  and  fry  in  hot  oiled  butter 
without  scorching,  or  in  pork  fat ;  if  the  latter,  rub  salt  on  the  fish. 
Lay  on  the  fish,  before  serving,  lumps  of  sweet  butter. 

To  Fry  Eels. — The  sensation  of  eels  can  be  destroyed  by  giving 
them  a  hard  knock  on  the  head.  After  they  are  cleaned  and  skinned, 
roll  them  in  yolk  of  egg  and  thin  rolled  crackers,  bread  crumbs,  meal 
or  flour,  and  fry  in  pork  fat  or  oiled  butter  slowly  until  a  pale  brown. 

To  Fry  Rook  Bass  or  any  Small  Fish. — Clean  them ;  rub  the  fish 
with  salt,  and  let  them  lie  an  hour ;  have  a  sufficient  quantity  of  fat 
hot  to  cover  the  fish,  and  fry  slowly  until  the  fish  is  crisped  entirely. 
Some  very  small  fishes  may  be  crisped,  so  that  the  bones  can  be  eaten 
without  inconvenience. 

To  Fey  Mackerel. — Take  as  many  mackerel  as  are  needed  for  the 
family  ;  remove  the  skin,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs, 
fry  them  slowly  until  done.  For  a  sauce,  pound  the  soft  roes  with 
sweet  thick  cream,  and  pass  them  through  a  sieve  ;  melt  some  butter 
in  a  little  veal  consomme,  or  water  if  no  consomme  is  at  hand ;  stir 
in  the  cream  and  roes,  add  a  little  lemon  juice  and  mushroom  catsup, 
heat  it  hot,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish  after  it  is  dished. 

To  Broil  Fish. — The  fire  should  be  hot  and  bright ;  the  grid- 
iron smooth  and  clean.  If  fish  is  oiled,  it  will  not  stick  to  the  grid- 
iron. If  fresh  oil  cannot  be  had,  oiled  butter  free  from  salt  answers 
nicely.  To  prepare  the  butter,  pursue  the  following  plan :  boil  the 
butter,  skim  it,  and  strain  it  through  a  fine  cloth,  keep  it  warm,  with- 
out cooking,  half  an  hour,  to  precipitate  the  salt ;  then-  cool  it,  and ' 
use  the  top ;  most  of  the  salt  will  be  found  at  the  bottom.  Melt  it 
for  oiling  fish. 


80  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

To  Boil  Fresh  Mackerel. — Split  the  fish  down  the  back,  wash  and 
dry  it  thoroughly  ;  with  a  feather  oil  it  all  over  with  fresh  salad  oil 
or  oiled  butter ;  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  lay  it  on  a  cold  grid- 
iron inside  down  ;  when  browned  slightly,  turn  it  on  the  back ;  when 
the  back  is  browned,  wipe  the  oil  from  the  gridiron  as  clean  as  possi- 
ble, lift  and  turn  it  over  so  as  to  place  the  fish  with  the  inside  down 
on  the  platter.  The  platter  should  have  been  standing  over  hot  water, 
with  -a  bit  of  butter  melting  on  it,  to  lay  the  fish  in ;  lay  bits  of  butter 
on  the  back  to  melt.  Broil  all  fresh  fish  in  the  same  manner ;  a  per- 
son that  can  broil  one  fish  well  can  broil  any  other  as  well.  Large 
fishes,  as  salmon,  cod,  halibut,  haddock,  etc.,  are  never  broiled  whole 
but  in  steaks. 

To  Broil  Eels. — Eels  when  broiled  are  either  wrapped  in  but- 
tered paper,  or  dipped  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs. 

To  Broil  "White  Fish. — White  fish  is  thought  by  some  to  be  im- 
proved by  making  a  very  little  smoke  from  sawdust,  or  a  bit  of  wood 
under  it  when  broiling. 

To  Soak  Salt  Fish. — Salted  fish  require  to  be  soaked  from  twelve 
to  twenty-four  hours  ;  they  should  be  drained  after  soakingl  until  they 
are  as  dry  as  fresh  fish ;  oil  the  fish  before  broiling,  the  same  as  fresh. 

To  Soak  Mackerel. — Soak  salted  mackerel  in  milk  and  water ; 
it  gives  them  a  better  taste  as  well  as  improves  their  color ;  change 
the  milk  and  water  once,  and  drain  welh 

To  Broil  Salt  Mackerel. — Oil  the  gridiron,  and  broil  the  same 
as  fresh  mackerel;  lay  over  the  fish  sweet  butter  and  very  little  pep- 
per.   Shad  is  broiled  in  the  same  manner  ;  also  white  fish. 

Picked-up  Cod  Fish. — This  is  an  old-fashioned  dish  and  name, 
but  none  the  less  to  be  admired  on  that  account,  being,  with  most 
persons,  when  properly  prepared,  a  great  favorite.  Pick  up  the  fish  in 
small  particles,  separating  the  fibres  as  near  as  possible,  the  finer  the 
better.  Freshen  by  leaving  it  in  water  one  hour ;  pour  off  the  water, 
and  fill  up  with  fresh  ;  bring  it  to  a  scald,  pour  it  off,  and  put  on  the 
fish  just  enough  water  to  cover  it ;  add,  to  a  quart  of  the  soaked  fish, 
'a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg^  a  very  little  flour,  and  a  dust  of 
pepper.  Beat  up  two  eggs,  and  after  taking  off  the  fish,  thicken  it  by 
stirring  in  the  egg.    Some  let  it  boil  after  the  egg  is  added,  but  if  this 


*     FISH.  81 

is  done,  the  egg  will  be  curdled.     Another  way  is  to  boil  eggs,  chop 
and  mix  them  in  the  gravy.     (See  Cod  Fish  Hash  and  Toast.) 

Mrs.  TV.'s  Scalloped  Oysters. — Eight  square  soda-crackers  rolled 
fine,  seven  onces  of  butter,  one  quart  of  oysters ;  drain  the  oysters ; 
put  the  crackers  and  oysters  in  alternate  layers;  divide  the  butter 
equally,  putting  it  on  the  oysters  at  each  layer,  with  a  dust  of  pepper, 
and,  if  shell  oysters,  very  little  salt ;  be  careful  not  to  salt  too  much, 
leaving  the  bottom  and  top  layer  crackers.  A  moment  before  baking 
add  a  coffee  cup  of  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  ;  bake  a  light  brown. 
This  receipt  will  be  found  perfect. 

To  Scallop  Fish. — Pick  the  fish  in  flakes,  mix  it  with  rolled 
crackers  or  rusked  bread;  moisten  with  melted  butter,  pack  it  in 
shells,  and  bake  in  the  oven. 

Casserole  of  Fish. — Take  any  cold  fish,  divide  it  into  small  bits ; 
have  ready  as  many  eggs  as  needed,  boiled  hard ;  work  the  yolks  fine, 
chop  the  whites  and  mix  the  eggs  and  fish  together ;  mash  potatoes, 
and  work  the  fish,  egg,  and  potatoes  together ;  moisten  with  butter, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  put  the  whole  in  a  mould,  and  boil ; 
when  done,  turn  it  out. 

Kedgeree. — Boil  rice  ;  add  any  picked-up  fish ;  heat  it  together, 
and  while  hot  stir  into  the  mixture  a  beaten  egg ;  serve  hot. 

Croquettes  of  Fish. — Mince  cold  fish ;  mix  in  the  fish,  egg,  a 
little  flour,  a  spoonful  of  cream ;  make  the  fish  in  balls  or  small  cakes, 
and  fry  them  brown.     Lobsters  make  the  best  croquettes. 

Fish  Cutlets. — Take  steaks  of  any  large  fish ;  dip  them  in  egg 
and  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  slowly,  un- 
til done,  a  nice  brown. 

Soused  Fish. — Any  fish  can  be  soused.  After  it  is  boiled,  put  it 
in  strong  spiced  vinegar ;  shad  and  mackerel  are  very  nice  soused 
for  tea. 

Anchovy  Butter. — Beat  fine  as  many  of  the  fish  as  will  be 
wanted,  with  sufficient  fresh  butter  to  moisten  them ;  pass  it  through 
a  wire  sieve,  mould,  and  cut  it  in  slices. 

Sandwiches  of  Fish. — Pick  clear  from  bone  any  fish,  spread  the 
4* 


82  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

picked  fish  between  two  slices  of  bread  and  butter ;  and  add  mustard 
or  catsups  if  desired. 

Fried  Oysters  without  Egg. — To  fry  oysters :  select  the  largest 
oysters,  simmer  them  in  their  own  liquor  a  few  minutes,  and  dry 
them  with  a  towel ;  dip  them  in  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  a  light 
brown.  Many  cooks  recommend  bearding  oysters,  that  is,  removing 
their  respiratory  organs ;  where  they  are  cheap  it  is  well  to  do  so, 
but  in  the  country  would  be  very  extravagant.  Oysters  are  also 
merely  dipped  in  flour  and  fried,  either  after  being  scalded  in  their 
own  liquor  or  not ;  fry  them  in  butter. 

Broiled  Oysters. — Oysters  are  nice  broiled  in  their  shell,  or  laid 
in  shells  for  the  purpose ;  they  must  be  laid  over  a  bed  of  hot  coal, 
and  butter  and  pepper  added  in  the  shell ;  serve  hot. 

To  Stew  Oysters. — Have,  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  sufficient  boiling 
water  to  cover  the  oysters ;  as  the  water  heats  remove  the  scum,  add 
butter  and  pepper  if  relished;  many  persons  never  use  pepper  on 
oysters.  This  stew  can  be  varied  by  the  use  of  cream  in  the  stew, 
when  very  little  butter  will  be  necessary. 

Scalloped  Oysters. — Select  a  dozen  nice  large  oysters ;  if  they 
are  plenty  beard  them,  if  not  use  all  of  the  fish  ;  spread  rolled  crackers 
or  rusked  bread  on  the  bottom  of  a  shell ;  lay  in  some  oysters  and 
some  bits  of  butter,  then  strew  over  them  more  crumbs ;  add  oysters 
and  butter,  with  layers  of  crackers  or  crumbs,  until  the  shell  is  filled. 
Pour  over  the  whole  the  liquid  from  the  oysters,  and  bake  brown ; 
serve  hot.    If  any  are  left,  they  are  very  good  cold. 

Oyster  Patties. — Cover  small  shells  or  patty-pans  with  nice  pun? 
paste,  bake  them  well,  when  done  turn  them  out  on  a  plate ;  stew 
oysters,  season  them  to  suit  the  taste,  thicken  their  juice  with  egg, 
and  when  cold,  fill  the  patties  with  the  oysters. 

Oyster  Pies,  very  nice.— Cover  a  deep  plate  with  puff  paste ;  lay 
an  extra  layer  around  the  edge  of  the  plate,  and  bake  nicely ;  when  quite 
done,  fill  the  pie  with  oysters,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter, 
dust  over  a  little  flour,  and  cover  with  a  thin  crust  of  puff  paste ; 
bake  quickly ;  when  the  top  crust  is  done,  the  oysters  should  be ; 
serve  as  soon  as  baked,  as  the  crust  soon  absorbs  the  gravy. 

To  Boil  Hard-shelled  Clams.— Wash  the  shells  very  clean,  put 


FISH.  83 

them  in  a  pot  with  as  little  water  as  will  keep  the  pot  from  burning, 
with  their  edges  down ;  and  boil  constantly.  When  the  shells  open 
they  are  done ;  remove  them ;  have  ready  nice  butter  toast,  and  pour 
the  clams  on  the  toast,  with  as  much  of  the  juice  as  the  toast  will  ab- 
sorb ;  add  pepper  if  desired. 

To  Fey  Clams  with  Egg  and  Ceackees. — Procure  large  sand 
clams ;  dip  them  in  egg,  bread  crumbs,  rolled  crackers  or  meal,  and 
fry  brown  in  sweet  butter. 

Stewed  Clams. — Put  the  clams  in  a  stew-pan,  with  about  the 
same  quantity  of  water  as  the  juice  of  the  clams,  boil  from  twenty-five 
to  thirty  minutes,  remove  all  the  scum  that  rises,  and  season  with 
butter  and  a  dust  of  pepper. 

Hashed  Clams. — Chop  clams  fine ;  stew  them  in  very  little  water, 
add  their  own  juice  ;  bojl  fifteen  minutes,  and  season  with  butter  and 
pepper ;  after  taking  up  the  hash,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  yolk  or 
two  of  eggs. 

Muscles  Stewed. — These  are  stewed  in  their  own  liquor,  and  sea- 
soned with  parsley,  and,  if  desired,  onion  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

Scallops,  Ceawfish,  Spawns,  and  Sheimps. — These  are  first 
boiled  in  salted  water  until  nearly  done.  They  are  then  taken  out, 
and  stewed  in  their  own  liquor  with  a  little  wine,  lemon  juice,  or 
vinegar ;  add  some  butter  and  grated  bread,  and  after  dishing,  thicken 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs  without  boiling. 

Tuetle  Stew. — Select  the  best  of  the  meat,  cut  it  in  bits,  season  with 
salt,  Cayenne,  and  sweet  marjoram,  nutmeg  and  mace ;  add  sufficient 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  stew  for  an  hour,  and  add  a  part  of  the  green 
fat  cut  in  small  bits,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon,  and  wine ; 
stew  for  an  hour  longer,  very  gently  ;  serve  hot. 

Tuetle  Patties. — Scrape  the  back  shell  clean,  line  it  with  puS* 
paste,  fill  it  with  the  stewed  turtle,  cover  with  puff  paste  rolled  thin, 
and  bake  as  soon  as  possible,  (or  the  paste  will  soak  in  the  liquor,)  in 
a  moderately  quick  oven ;  serve  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven.  To 
dress  and  prepare  the  soup,  see  Tuetle  Soup. 

To  Deess  Lobstees. — To  boil  a  lobster,  the  pot  should  be  full  of 
strong  salted  water,  boiling  hot.  Put  the  fish  in  the  pot,  alive,  while 
boiling  hard,  with  its  head  downward  that  it  may  die  as  quickly  as 


8*4  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

possible.  Boil  steadily,  and  it  will  be  done  in  half  an  hour,  if  not 
very  large.  Before  dishing,  remove  the  large  claws  and  lay  them  on 
the  platter  by  the  side  of  the  fish ;  separate  the  head,  leaving  it  in  its 
place;  split  the  body  to  the  tip  of  the  tail,  and  send  it  to  the  table 
plain.  For  lobster  salads,  see  Salads.;  for  soup,  see  Soups;  for 
sauce,  see  Lobster  Sauce. 

Lobster  Balls. — Mince  the  meat  of  the  fish  with  the  coral  very 
fine,  season  to  suit  the  taste,  add  bread  crumbs,  butter  or  sweet  oil ; 
make  it  in  balls,  dip  them  in  yolk  of  egg  and  flour,  and  fry,  in  hot 
lard,  until  brown. 

Lobster  Patties. — Cover  shells  with  puff  paste,  fill  them  with 
minced  lobster,  seasoned  as  desired,  cover  and  bake. 


CHAPTER    III. 

BEEF. 

General  Directions  foe  Roasting  and  Boiling  Meats. — All  salt 
meats  should  be  put  into  cold  water,  heated  gradually,  skimmed  as 
long  as  a  particle  of  scum  rises  to  the  surface,  and  boiled  gently  with- 
out ceasing,  until  tender.  The  pot  should  be  often  filled  with  boiling 
water,  that  the  meats  may  not  be  too  salt.  If  the  water  is  very  hard, 
put  into  the  pot  a  large  teaspoon  of  soda,  before  putting  in  the  beef  or 
ham ;  for  fat  salt  pork  it  is  unnecessary.  To  boil  fresh  meats,  have 
the  pot  boiling  hard  when  the  meat  is  put  in ;  boil  steadily  ;  remove 
all  scum ;  do  not  let  it  either  soak  or  boil  so  hard  as  to  make  it  neces- 
sary to  leave  off  the  pot-cover.  For  soups,  put  the  meats  in  cold 
water,  simmer  gently  a  long  time ;  soups  ought  never  to  boil  furiously. 
In  roasting  joints,  heat  the  surface  as  soon  as  possible,  and  afterwards 
roast  more  gently.  The  sooner  the  outside  pores  are  closed,  the  less 
juice  of  the  meat  will  be  lost.  A  roast  is  in  perfection  when  juicy  in 
the  middle  and  brown  on  the  outside.  To  roast  a  fowl  well,  the  skin 
should  be  protected  at  first ;  if  it  blisters  and  cracks,  it  presents  not 
only  a  poor  appearance,  but  loses  much  flavor.  To  boil  a  fowl, 
put  it  in  boiling  water,  unless  the  broth  is  desired  for  soup ;  if  so,  use 
cold,  and  simmer  gently.  To  broil  well,  the  fire  must  be  bright,  not 
over  hot,  but  brisk.    To  fry,  the  fire  should  be  moderate  and  steady. 


BEEF.  85 

To  stew,  the  fire  should  be  slow,  but  steady.  There  is  great  waste  in 
boiling  fast.  It  not  only  takes  more  wood,  but  wastes  the  flavor  of 
the  meat,  or  vegetables,  besides  giving  disagreeable  notice  to  all  in  the 
house  what  is  to  be  served  for  dinner.  Old  fowls  should  never  be 
roasted,  or,  if  so,  very  gently ;  allow  an  hour  longer  to  roast  an  old 
turkey  than  a  young  one.  It  is  better,  if  possible,  to  boil  or  stew  an 
old  fowl,  than  to  either  roast,  fry,  or  broil  them ;  give  them  half  an 
hour  more  time  than  a  young  fowl.  The  same  rule  applies  to  all  game. 
Old  meats  boil,  roast,  fry,  broil,  and  stew  in  less  time  than  the  beef 
of  a  young  creature.  Too  young  cattle  make  poor  beef.  The  finer 
the  beef,  the  sooner  it  roasts,  and  the  more  juicy  the  joint. 

To  Boil  Corned  Beef. — If  the  beef  is  very  salt,  put  it  in  a  pot  fill- 
ed with  cold  water,  and  when  nearly  but  not  quite  boiling,  change  it 
for  cold  water.  As  soon  as  the  second  water  boils,  skim  it  until  no 
impurities  arise.  If  boiled  in  hard  water,  throw  in  a  teaspoon  of 
soda  before  putting  in  the  meat.  Keep  the  pot  closed,  that  it  may 
keep  full  by  the  condensing  of  the  steam  on  the  cover.  If  the  lid 
allows  the  steam  to  escape,  and  the  water  boils  low,  fill  up  with  boil- 
ing water.  Let  it  boil  slowly  until  tender,  so  that  the  bones  will  slip 
out.  If  the  meat  is  not  too  salt,  put  in  only  sufficient  water  to  cover 
it ;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and,  when  the  liquor  is  clear,  close  the 
lid  tightly,  and  boil,  as  gently  as  possible,  until  very  tender. 

Superior  Beef  to  Use  Cold  from  Poor  Pieces. — Soak  in  warm, 
not  hot  water,  until  as  fresh  as  desired  when  boiled.  Then  cover  it 
with  water,  and  boil  slowly  ;  skim  the  pot  as  long  as  any  scum  rises, 
after  which  cover  the  pot  closely,  that  the  condensed  steam  may  fall 
in  the  pot,  and  boil  steadily,  until  the  meat  will  break  in  bits  if  lifted 
with  a  fork ;  when  sufficiently  tender,  skim  it  out,  remove  the  bone, 
and  mix  the  fat  and  lean  together ;  put  it  in  a  wide  earthen  dish,  deep 
enough  to  hold  it ;  skim  the  fat  from  the  liquor,  and  boil  the  liquor 
down  ;  when  sufficiently  reduced,  pour  it  over  the  meat;  lay  over  it  a 
flat  cover,  and  put  on  a  weight  of  fifteen  or  twenty  pounds,  and  let  it 
stand  all  night.  When  wanted  for  the  table,  cut  it  in  thin  slices,  as 
you  would  head-cheese.  The  jelly  of  the  liquor  will  make  it  firm, 
and,  if  properly  mixed,  the  fat  and  lean  will  be  in  right  proportion 
through  the  whole.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to  manage  the  poor 
pieces  of  corned  beef — the  gristle  will  be  tender,  and  every  part  good. 
The  gelatine  of  the  muscles  will  be  saved ;  though  not  considered  par- 
ticularly nutritious  when  used  alone,  it  will  assist  in  forming  the 


86  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

meat  into  a  solid  mass,  making  it  both  agreeable  to  the  eye  and  taste. 
If  the  beef  is  much  salt,  it  should  be  soaked  forty-eight  hours,  or 
longer  if  not  sufficiently  freshened,  to  allow  all  the  water  to  evapor- 
ate, and  the  jelly  to  solidify,  without  tasting  too  much  of  the  brine. 

Remarks  on  Roast  Beef,  etc. — Most  cooks  advise  heating  meat 
slowly  at  the  first,  and  afterward,  more  particularly  in  roasts,  with 
more  rapidity ;  but  our  experience  is,  that  if  the  juices  are  wanted  in 
the  roast,  it  should  be  suffered  to  brown  as  quick  as  possible  with- 
out burning,  and  afterwards  roast  as  slowly  as  possible,  and  have  the 
roast  finished  by  a  given  time.  Boiled  fresh  beef  we  put  first  in  hot 
water ;  let  it  boil  up  once,  skim  thoroughly,  and  boil  gently  until 
tender. 

To  Roast  a  Sikloin  of  Beef  weighing  Ten  Pounds,  Rake. — Wash 
the  beef  quickly,  not  allowing  it  to  soak  ;  put  no  salt  or  pepper  on  it 
before  it  commences  to  roast.-  To  have  roast  beef  in  perfection,  it 
must  not  only  be  well  seasoned,  but  its  juices  retained  within  itself, 
so  that  when  the  knife  is  drawn  through  in  carving,  the  juice  will  im- 
mediately follow.  This  can  be  attained  by  following  the  given  direc- 
tions. Put  the  beef  to  roast  two  hours  before  the  dinner  hour,  if 
roasted  before  the  fire ;  or,  if  in  a  hot  stove,  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Brown  a  little  suet  in  a  dripping-pan,  add  sufficient  boiling  water,  a 
little  salted,  to  baste  the  meat  conveniently,  and  place  it  under- the 
roast.  Never  lay' a  roast  in  a  pan;  if  in  water,  it  will  be  stewed — if 
without,  it  will  burn.  The  bone  side  should  be  turned  before  the  fire 
at  first,  and  afterward  the  other.  When  the  beef  is  heated  on  the 
surface  on  all  sides,  so  as  to  look  a  little  brownish,  and  the  water  in 
the  pan  is  boiling  hot,  baste  it  well,  and  repeat  the  basting  once  every 
fifteen  minutes  for  an  hour,  if  before  the  fire,  and  half  that  time  if  in 
a  stove-oven,  and  the  remainder  of  the  time  it  is  roasting,  every  five 
minutes.  When  it  is  fairly  roasting,  baste  with  flour  and  water ;  place 
bits  of  paper  over  the  fat  and  thinnest  part  of  the  beef,  to  prevent  its 
getting  over  done.  Most  cooks  say,  roast  slowly  at  first ;  we  prefer 
to  heat  quickly,  and  roast  more  slowly  at  the  last ;  but  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  burn  at  the  first  outset,  as  this  would  ruin  the  whole 
operation.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  or  not,  as  desired.  Just 
before  the  beef  is  taken  from  the  oven,  or  fire,  dredge  it  with  flour, 
and  allow  it  to  brown  without  burning.  Serve  currant,  or  *feome 
other  acid  jelly,  with  all  roasts  of  beef.  Mash  and  season  potatoes, 
turnips,  and  squash,  when  served  with  roasts  of  any  sort.  Plain 
boiled  vegetables  with  these  meats  are  decidedly  improper.    Roast 


BEEF.  87 

the  rump  of  beef  in  the  same  manner ;  sirloin  is  the  finest  roast  in 
the  creature,  but  the  rump  is  considered  good. 

A-la-mode  Beef. — Prepare  a  dressing  with  bread  or  crackers, 
moisten  with  water  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg, 
cloves,  and,  if  relished,  allspice ;  add  two  eggs,  and  mix  the  whole  well 
together.  Have  ready  a  round  of  beef  of  the  proper  size  for  the 
family ;  cut  gashes  in  it,  and  fill  them  with  the  dressing.  Bind  it 
together  with  skewers,  and  put  it  in  a  bake-pan  with  water  enough  to 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  in  which  is  dissolved  a  little  salt.  Baste 
it  three  or  four  times  with  the  salted  water  while  cooking.  Let  it 
stew  gently.  When  nearly  done,  cover  it  with  dressing  reserved  for 
the  purpose.  Heat  the  lid  to  the  pan  sufficiently  hot  to  brown  it,  cover 
and  stew  until  done.  It  can  be  stewed  in  a  dripping-pan,  in  a  stove- 
oven,  and  browned  when  done  by  holding  over  it,  if  not  already 
browned,  a  heated  shovel.  The  dressing  should  be  poured  over  it  half 
an  hour  before  taking  it  from  the  oven.  If  the  gravy  is  too  thin,  add 
a  little  flour  worked  free  from  lumps. 

Fkexch  Beef. — Remove  the  bone  from  a  circular  piece  of  the 
round,  cut  away  all  fat  and  skin.  Lard  it  all  over  with  a  larding-pin, 
which  is  an  instrument  made  for  the  purpose,  consisting  of  iron,  sharp- 
ened like  a  needle  at  one  end,  and  resembling  a  pencil-case  at  the 
other.  The  strips  of  pork  or  larding  are  entered  at  the  square  or  hollow 
end,  and  the  pin  is  pushed  through  the  meat,  the  sharp  end  entering 
first.  It  is  so  contrived  that  the  larding  will  be  left  in  the  meat  when 
the  pin  comes  out.  Make  a  nice  force-meat  of  chopped  suet,  bread, 
or  crackers  rolled  fine,  highly  seasoned,  and  wet  with  egg ;  fill  the 
cavity  made  by  the  bone  with  this  dressing ;  wind  it  with  twine  to 
keep  it  in  shape,  and  put  it  in  a  broad  earthen  jar  with  a  tight  cover, 
and  set  it  in  the  oven  until  done ;  or  put  it  in  an  iron  bake-pan  ;  put  in 
the  jar,  with  the  meat,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
a  teaspoon  half  full  of  whole  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  port  wine. 
Add,  if  relished,  an  onion  and  cloves ;  stew  slowly,  five  or  six  hours, 
in  proportion  to  its  size.  If  in  a  jar,  set  it  in  a  brick  or  stove  oven ; 
serve  hot  with  its  own  gravy  as  it  is. 

Stewed  Beefsteak,  No.  1. — Take  a  slice  of  good  sirloin  beef; 
put  it  in  a  dripping-pan  without  water,  cover  tight,  and  set  in  the 
oven ;  when  heated,  take  it  out,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  return  it  to 
the  oven.  Let  it  cook  without  the  cover,  long  enough  to  heat 
through,  then  turn  it,  and  lay  on  small  bits  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 


88 

As  soon  as  the  butter  is  melted,  it  is  done.  It  should  be  not  over 
fifteen  minutes  cooking,  and  the  oven  should  be  very  hot  before  it  is 
put  in. 

Brown  Stewed  Beefsteak. — Be  sure  the  oven  is  hot  enough  to 
burn  flour,  before  the  beef  is  put  in.  Putr  the  dripping-pan  in  the 
oven  with  enough  suet  from  the  beef  to  grease  it  well,  and  leave  a 
little  floating.  Do  not  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  beef.  Lay  it  in 
the  dripping-pan ;  set  it  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes.  Take  out  the 
pan,  and  turn  over  the  beef ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  the 
side  turned  over.  Set  it  in  again,  and  let  it  remain  five  minutes.  It 
should  then  be  done  ;  but  if  not,  leave  it  longer ;  mix  as  much  butter 
as  is  needed,  with  a  very  little  boiling  water ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the 
taste,  and  a  pinch  of  flour ;  mix  all  together,  and  heat,  but  not  boil  it. 
Take  the  beef  from  the  pan,  lay  it  on  a  platter,  and  mix  the  gravy 
with  the  juice  of  the  meat,  (if  it  is  not  scorched,  if  so,  do  not  use  it,) 
and  pour  it  over  the  beef.  It  will  take  half  a  teacupful  of  butter, 
and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  for  a  small  slice.  This  man- 
ner of  cooking  is  not  as  good  as  broiled  ;  but,  as  it  is  often  more  con- 
venient to  stew  than  to  broil,  it  will  be  found  a  good  recipe,  and 
much  better  than  a  fried  steak.    Serve  with  mashed  potatoes. 

Feied  Beefsteak:. — Heat  the  spider  before  putting  in  the  beef, 
cut  off  most  of  the  fat,  season  the  fat  with  pepper  and  salt,  before 
frying ;  put  the  steak  into  the  hot  spider,  and  fry  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble ;  when  the  beef  is  turned,  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  mix 
a  little  flour  and  water  together  in  the  proportion  of  half  a  teacupful 
of  water  to  a  half  teaspoonful  of  flour ;  take  out  the  meat  and  scraps 
of  fat,  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  water ;  let  the  gravy  brown  a  little, 
and  pour  it  over  the  beef.  Serve  with  fried  potatoes,  if  convenient; 
if  not,  with  mashed. 

Beefsteak  Geavy. — For  one  slice  of  sirloin  steak,  take  half  a 
teacup  of  butter ;  set  the  platter  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  ;  cut  the 
butter  in  bits,  if  very  salt,  very  little  if  any  salt  will  be  needed ;  dust 
on  a  little  pepper,  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  hot  water.  Save  all  the 
blood  from  the  steak  possible  to  add  to  the  gravy,  without  pressing  the 
beef.  Be  careful  it  does  not  boil,  as  it  would  become  oily,  and  taste 
Jike  stewed  steak  more  than  broiled.  If  the  gridiron  is  bright,  and  the 
juice  of  the  meat  caught  by  it  is  not  burned,  add  it  to  the  gravy ; 
but  it  is  seldom,  indeed,  that  it  is  in  a  fit  state  for  any  thing.  Use  the 
sweetest  butter  for  steaks :  there  is  no  cooking  injured  more  by  poor 


BEEF.  89 

butter  than  steak,  as  the  gravy;  does  not  boil  to  throw  off  its  imper- 
fections, as  in  most  other  preparations  for  the  table. 

To  Beoil  Beefsteak  Eaee. — When  beef  is  desired  very  rare, 
have  a  good  bed  of  live  coals  ready,  lay  the  beef  on  the  gridiron,  and 
put  it  on  the  coals.  It  should  be  ready  to  turn  in  three  minutes. 
When  it  is  turned,  take  it  up  carefully  with  two  forks  ;  roll  it  up,  so 
as  to  save  the  juice  of  the  meat  which  has  collected  in  cooking ;  do 
not  squeeze  the  steak,  but  merely  drain  off  the  juice  on  the  platter ; 
put  it  back  as  quickly  as  possible,  that  it  may  lose  no  heat  in  turning ; 
add  to  the  juice  of  the  meat  pepper,  salt,  and  .considerable  butter, 
and  set  the  platter  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  In  three  minutes, 
if  the  fire  is  right,  it  will  be  done.  Lay  it  on  the  platter ;  let  it  remain 
a  moment,  and  then  turn  it  over,  but  on  no  account  press  it ;  add 
to  the  gravy  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  after  the  meat 
is  well  seasoned.  Turn  the  platter  two  or  three  times,  to  mix  the 
water  with  the  gravy,  and  serve  immediately.  The  platter  should  be 
sufficiently  large  to  hold  the  steak,  spread  its  full  size,  without  touch- 
ing the  edge.  If  any  of  the  gravy  has  soiled  the  edge  of  the  platter, 
wipe  it  with  a  clean  towel ;  nothing  looks  more  untidy  than  a  spat- 
tered platter.  Serve  with  potatoes,  turnips,  and  cauliflower,  dressed. 
Relishes,  cold  or  hot  slaw,  if  no  cauliflower  is  served ;  pickles  and 
jellies  are  always  fine  with  beefsteak. 

To  Beoil  a  Beefsteak:  to  suit  all. — To  broil  a  steak  to  suit  all, 
it  is  necessary  to  cut  it  in  as  many  pieces  as  there  are  tastes  to  suit. 
The  part  desired  rare,  should  be  put  on  with  a  bright  bed  of  fresh 
coals,  when  the  piece  desired  nearly  done  is  about  ready  to  turn, 
broil  as  described  for  rare  steak.  That  to  be  partially  broiled,  should 
be  laid  on,  when  the  part  to  be  thoroughly  cooked  is  ready  to  turn. 
When  this  part  of  the  steak  is  ready  to  turn,  dip  the  broiled  side  in 
the  gravy,  (see  Geavy,)  and  turn  the  raw  side  down.  When  the  other 
side  is  browned,  if  not  sufficiently  done,  dip  again,  and  turn  the  first 
side  to  the  fire.  The  piece  which  is  to  be  well  done,  should  be  dipped, 
the  broiled  side  down,  as  soon  as  it  has  cooked  sufficiently,  to  close  the 
pores.  Dip  it  again,  when  the  other  side  is  in  the  same  state,  and  so 
do  for  three  or  four  times,  according  to  the  heat  of  the  coals.  It 
should  be  brown  when  finished.  This  plan  will  render  the  steak 
juicy  and  good.  If  salt  and  pepper  are  put  on  at  first,  the  juice  will  be 
in  the  gravy,  or  lost  in  the  fire ;  but  after  it  has  partly  congealed,  the 
salt  will  neither  harden  nor  dissolve  the  fibre.    The  tenderloin  makes 


90 

the  most  tender  steak.  The  sirloin  is  very  fine ;  and  the  rump,  though 
not  very  tender,  is  sweet  and  juicy.  Vegetables  should  be  dressed, 
if  the  steak  is  for  dinner ;  but  for  breakfast,  a  baked  potato  is  con- 
sidered proper.     Butter,  for  steak,  should  be  as  sweet  as  for  table  use. 

Beefsteak  and  Oysters,  or  Clams. — Get  very  tender  sirloin 
steak ;  remove  the  bone,  and  lay  it  on  the  gridiron  over  hot  coals. 
Have  ready  large  fat  oysters  or  clams.  "When  the  steak  is  browned 
a  little,  dip  it  in  the^  gravy  prepared  as  directed,  with  the  addition  of 
the  oyster  juice ;  which,  if  as  salt  as  usual,  will  salt  the  gravy  suf- 
ficiently ;  lay  the  beef  on  the  gridiron  again,  and  when  a  little  hot, 
put  the  oysters  on  it,  pressing  the  meat  a  little  to  make  hollow  spots  ■ 
to  retain  their  juice  ;  cover  the  whole  gridiron  with  a  bright  tin  pan 
or  cover ;  when  the  oysters  are  heated  a  little,  turn  them  over,  and 
when  heated  through,  remove  the  steaks  to  the  platter ;  lay  the  oysters 
round  the  edge  of  the  meat  in  the  gravy,  and  serve  immediately. 

Beefsteak  Pie. — Cover  the  bottom  of  a  deep  plate  with  paste,  as 
directed  in  Pastry.  Cut  the  beef  in  pieces,  convenient  for  the  mouth ; 
spread  them  evenly  over  the  paste ;  then  add  butter,  flour,  pepper, 
salt,  and  water ;  cover  with  paste,  press  the  edges  firmly,  and  cut  a 
gash  in  the  centre  of  the  pie ;  it  is  good  cold  or  hot.  If  to  be  used 
cold,  make  a  gravy  by  boiling  a  bit  of  the  bone,  seasoning  it  the  same 
as  the  pie  ;  heat  the  gravy,  and  serve  it  with  the  pie.  Potatoes  are 
all  the  vegetables  needed — they  should  be  mashed.  These  pies  can  be 
made  from  cold  beefsteak  left  the  day  before,  but  are  not  quite  as 
good. 

To  Cook  Dried  Beef. — Slice  it  as  thin  as  possible,  and  let  it 
lie  in  water,  over  night,  or  less  time,  if  not  very  salt.  Stew  it  in 
water  sufficient  to  make  the  gravy  needed,  until  tender.  Beat  up  an 
egg  with  a  little  flour ;  add  a  lump  of  butter  to  the  beef,  and  stir  in 
the  egg  and  flour.  Toast  bread ;  lay  the  beef  nicely  on  it,  and  pour 
the  gravy  over  it ;  add  a  trifle  of  pepper  at  the  table,  if  relished. 

Mock  Yenison  of  Corned  Beef. — Cut  the  beef  in  thin  slices, 
and  freshen  it  well,  it  should  lie  in  tepid  water  three  or  four  hours. 
When  sufficiently  fresh,  lay  it  on  the  gridiron,  and  let  it  heat  through 
quickly.  Make  a  gravy  of  drawn  butter ;  add  a  little  pepper,  and 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  chopped  fine,  and  pour  over  it ;  or  put  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  on  it,  as  you  would  a  beefsteak.  This  will  be  found 
a  good  dish,  in  the  country  where  fresh  beef  is  seldom  to  be  obtained, 
but  not  equal  to  fresh  beef  or  venison. 


BEEF.  91 

Feied  Beefsteak  to  Resemble  Beoiling. — Heat  a  spider  so  very 
hot,  that  flour  will  burn  on  it  instantly ;  wipe  it  free  from  dust,  and 
lay  in  the  steak ;  it  should  brown  immediately ;  take  it  from  the  spider 
before  it  has  had  time  to  cook  any  part  except  the  browning  of  the 
side  that  came  in  contact  with  the  spider;  lay  it  on  the  platter, 
which  should  stand  over  hot  water ;  heat  the  spider  again ;  wipe  it 
free  from  fat,  and  brown  the  other  side  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
first.  Have  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  for  the  gravy,  laid  on  the  platter 
to  melt,  while  the  last  is  browning ;  remove  the  steak  to  the  platter, 
and  soak  it  in  the  gravy,  add  a  table-spoon  of  boiling  water  to  the 
gravy,  and  serve  immediately.  When  these  directions  are  followed 
to  the  letter,  there  are  but  few,  that  would  imagine  the  beef  otherwise 
cooked,  than  broiled.  It  is  far  before  a  poorly  broiled  steak.  If 
desired  well  done;  the  process  must  be  repeated,  not  left  in  to  fry, 
until  cooked  through,  as  that  would  give  a  taste  like  fried  beef  to  the 
whole  dish.  If  the  juice  of  the  meat  stands  on  the  steak,  when  the 
first  side  is  browning,  lift  the  beef  carefully,  so  as  to  pour  it  from  the 
beef  into  the  platter.  If  any  escapes  to  the  spider,  it  will  be  worse 
than  wasted  if  added  to  the  gravy. 


CHAPTER   IV. 

POEK. 

To  Boil  Salt  Poek. — Allow  one-third  for  shrinking ;  change  the 
water  as  soon  as  it  boils.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  to  fill 
the  kettle.  Let  it  boil  very  slowly.  When  tender  take  it  up ;  re- 
move the  skin  and  bones,  and  dot  it  with  ground  pepper.  Serve 
with  plain  potatoes,  turnips,  and  cabbage,  each  boiled  by  itself. 
Indian  pudding  boiled  with  the  pork  is  a  proper  dessert,  with  a  sauce 
of  cream  and  sugar,  or  maple  syrup.  Cold  boiled  pork  is  nice  frozen 
stiff",  cut  thin,  and  laid  between  bread  for  lunch. 

The  same  dessert  is  proper  for  boiled  ham,  bacon,  and  pork ;  but 
the  vegetables  of  pork  and  bacon  should  be  plain,  while  those  to  be 
used  with  the  ham  should  be  dressed.  For  baked  ham,  the  pudding 
should  be  baked. 

Boiled  Ham. — Soak  the  ham  over  night  if  dry ;  if  moist  omit  it. 
Boil  slowly  in  plenty  of  water.    At  no  time  allow  the  water  to  get 


92  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

lower  than  when  first  put  on.  A  large  ham  will  take  about  six  hours 
to  boil  tender  enough  to  eat  well  ccld.  If  the  ham  is  too  salt,  the 
water  should  be  changed  once,  but  cold  water  must  never  be  put  on 
the  ham  after  it  commences  to  boil.  No  vegetables  should  be  boiled 
with  it ;  if  the  flavor  of  ham  is  desired  in  them,  take  out  some  of 
the  liquor  and  boil  them  in  it.  If  the  water  is  hard,  add  a  little  soda. 
Filtered  rain  water  is  the  best  to  boil  salt  meat  in. 

To  Boil  Bacon. — Wash  it  clean  and  put  it  on  in  cold  water ;  if  too 
salt,  change  the  water ;  keep  plenty  of  water  in  the  pot  until  it  is  ten- 
der. Pork,  ham,  and  bacon  should  be  skinned  as  soon  as  taken  from  the 
pot,  and  ornamented  with  ground  pepper  put  on  in  spots  at  regular  in- 
tervals. The  bones  should  be  removed  from  pork  and  bacon,  after  it 
is  boiled,  but  not  from  ham ;  horseradish,  or  catsups  and  mustard, 
should  be  on  the  table  for  relishes. 

Baked  Ham,  No.  1. — Soak  over  night  a  small  ham,  and  cover  it 
with  a  paste  of  flour  and  water.  Bake  gently  five  hours,  remember, 
gently ;  not  a  hot  fire  one  hour,  and  none  the  next.  When  done,  re- 
move the  skin.    Serve  as  boiled  ham. 

Baked  Ham,  No.  2. — If  you  have  an  old-fashioned  bake-kettle,  line 
the  inside  with  paste  made  as  above ;  cut  off  part  of  the  fat  from  the 
ham,  and  the  bone  close  to  the  flesh ;  lay  in  the  ham,  and  cover  over 
the  top  with  the  same  crust  as  the  sides ;  place  coals  under  and  over 
the  bake-kettle,  keeping  the  ham  stewing  in  its  own  steam  for  five 
hours.  Then  remove  the  skin,  and  serve  as  above.  The  ham  should 
be  small  and  rather  lean.  This  method  is  said  to  be  very  fine,  much 
better  than  boiling. 

Pork  a  la  mode. — Fresh  pork  can  be  dressed  as  a-la-mode  beef, 
seasoned  with  sage,  savory,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  pepper,  and 
salt ;  and  as  French  beef,  with  the  same  seasoning  as  above.  It  can 
also  be  gashed,  and  stuffed  with  dressing  before  roasting,  as  already 
described.  It  is  much  more  healthy  and  quite  as  palatable  cold. 
Cold  roast  sparse  ribs  are  excellent. 

Fresh  Stewed  Pork. — Put  into  the  pot  just  enough  water  to 
cover  the  pork ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  when  nearly  done, 
thicken  with  a  little  flour. 

Fresh  Pork  Stew. — Boil  as  above,  season  when  half  done ;  add 
potatoes  and  light  crust.    {See  Pot-Pie.)    There  should  be  plenty  of 


PORK.  93 

gravy,  and  the  seasoning  should  be  added  and  gravy  thickened  before 
the  potatoes  are  put  in. 

Fresh  Pork  Pie. — Boil  lean,  fresh  pork,  and  make  the  paste  as 
for  beefsteak  pie ;  add  to  the  pie,  after  putting  in  the  meat,  two  po- 
tatoes cut  fine,  which  have  been  before  boiled ;  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  dust  of  summer  savory.  If  there  is  not  fat  enough  in  the 
pork,  add  butter;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour.  The  pie 
should  contain  as  much  gravy  as  possible.    It  is  good  cold  or  hot. 

Pork  Steak  Broiled. — The  tenderloin  is  the  best  for  steak,  but 
any  lean  white  meat  is  good.  Broil  slowly,  after  splitting  it  so  as  to 
allow  it  to  cook  through  without  drying  or  burning.  "When  ready  to 
turn  over,  dip  the  cooked  side  in  a  nice  gravy  of  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  which  should  be  prepared  on  a  platter  and  kept  hot  without  oil- 
ing. It  must  be  well  done  ;  there  should  be  no  sign  of  blood  in  the 
meat  when  cut.  It  requires  slow  broiling,  it  will  take  at  least 
twenty  minutes  to  broil  a  pork-steak. 

Fried  Pork-Steak. — Cut  off  the  rind,  and  if  there  is  enough  fat 
on  the  pork  to  fry  it,  rub  it  with  salt,  sage,  and  pepper,  and  fry  until 
thoroughly  done ;  keep  the  spider  covered  while  cooking,  and  be  care- 
ful not  to  burn  it ;  it  should  fry  slow,  and  a  long  time ;  serve  the 
gravy  as  it  is,  or  add  water  and  a  little  flour. 

To  Bake  Salt  Pork. — After  the  pork  has  boiled  until  quite 
tender,  take  it  from  the  pot  and  cut  the  rind  in  gashes  of  the  right 
thickness  to  slice,  and  bake  until  brown. 

Scrambled  Pork. — Freshen  nice  salt  pork,  cut  it  in  mouthfuls, 
and  partly  fry  it.  Just  before  it  is  done  break  into  the  spider  with 
the  pork  from  six  to  twelve  eggs,  break  and  mix  the  yolks  with  the 
whites,  and  stir  them  quickly  with  the  pork.  If  the  pork  is  fried 
brown  before  the  egg  is  added,  there  may  be  too  much  fat  for  the 
egg ;  if  so,  put  it  in  a  gravy-boat  if  needed  for  the  table,  or  save  it  for 
shortening.  Baked  potatoes  are  excellent  with  salt  meats  that  have 
a  gravy  of  their  own. 

Salt  Pork  Pancakes. — Make  a  light  batter  of  milk,  flour,  and 
egg.  Freshen  the  pork,  which  should  be  cut  as  thinly  as  possible,  and 
fry  it  until  thoroughly  done  ;  then  dip  it  in  batter,  and  turn  it  as  you 
would  a  pancake  when  fried  on  the  under  side. 


94  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Pork  and  Apple  Fritters. — Prepare  a  light  batter,  freshen  or 
use  cold  boiled  or  baked  pork ;  cut  it  fine  enough  for  hash,  and  fry  it 
a  little  to  extract  some  of  the  fat  for  frying  the  fritters.  Peel  sour 
apples,  and  cut  or  chop  them  not  quite  as  fine  as  the  pork ;  mix  first 
the  pork  and  then  the  apples  in  the  batter,  and  fry  them  brown. 
Potatoes,  parsnips,  salsify,  or  any  vegetable  desired,  can  be  used  in 
the  same  manner. 

Plain  Fried  Salt  Pork. — Cut  the  slices  thin,  and  gash  the  rind, 
so  that  it  will  need  but  little  masticating.  Parboil,  and  fry  slowly 
without  burning  the  fat.  Ifc  can  be  varied  by  dipping  it  in  flour  and 
browning.  Some  dip  dry  bread  in  water,  and  fry  after  the  pork  to 
serve  with  it. 

Apples  are  excellent  fried  after  pork,  also  potatoes.  "When  these 
are  fried  for  dinner,  the  potatoes  must  be  put  over  before  the  pork  in 
fat  left  from  a  previous  frying,  and  the  apples  in  another  pan  at  the 
same  time.  Fried  pork,  fried  apples,  and  fried  potatoes  together 
make  an  excellent  meal.  Some  persons  fry  onions  with  pork ;  they 
should  be  cut  evenly  and  fried  brown.  They  are  more  pleasant  to  eat 
than  to  cook.  If  possible,  they  should  be  fried  on  a  coal  furnace  in 
the  air,  as  the  odor  of  them  will  remain  for  days  in  the  house  after 
frying.  Apples  for  frying  should  not  be  very  acid,  as  they  break  too 
much ;  wash  them  clean,  and  do  not  peel  them.  The  cores  should  be 
removed  with  a  corer,  and  the  slices  cut  round,  with  a  hole  in  the 
centre  of  each  slice.  In  stirring  them  do  not  mix  the  apples  in  a  mass, 
but  leave  the  slices  as  entire  as  possible.  The  fat  should  be  hot  when 
they  are  put  in,  and  when  fried  they  should  be  nicely  browned. 

Salt  Pork  with  Cream  or  Milk  Gravy. — Slice  the  pork  very 
thin,  freshen,  and  fry  without  browning ;  when  done,  take  the  pork 
out  of  the  spider  and  keep  it  hot ;  the  best  plan  is  to  lay  it  on  a  pie- 
plate  and  set  it  in  the  oven.  Pour  off  the  fat,  and  rinse  the  salt  from 
the  bottom  of  the  spider  ;  for  a  common  platter  of  pork  allow  about 
one  table-spoonful  of  fat  and  a  large  pint  of  sweet  cream  ;  add  salt 
and  let  it  boil  up.  If  milk  is  used,  three  spoons  of  fat  and  a  little  flour 
to  thicken,  so  as  to  resemble  cream  as  much  as  possible.  The  rule  is 
to  allow  as  much  fat  as  will  boil  in  without  standing  on  the  gravy. 
The  richer  the  cream  the  less  fat  will  be  needed,  and  even  if  very 
thin  a" very  little  will  suffice.  Baked  potatoes  are  the  best  with  this 
dish.  Children  are  generally  fond  of  this  gravy  with  bread  broken 
in  it. 


PORK.  95 

Poek  and  Parsnips. — After  the  pork  is  fried  it  should  be  cut  in 
small  bits,  and  boiled  parsnips  mixed  with  it  cut  in  small  bits  and 
rolled  in  flour  ;  let  them  heat  through  together.  Some  make  a  sort  of 
parsnip  stew  with  pork  boiled  in  small  pieces  with  parsnips.  The 
pork  should  be  well  freshened  before  adding  the  parsnips. 

To  Fry  Ham. — It  is  an  excellent  plan  to  use  a  ham  and  shoul- 
der together ;  if  not,  the  fat  and  lean  of  ham  should  be  equally- 
divided.  Cut  the  slices  thin  and  straight,  do  not  haggle  the  ham, 
remove  the  rind,  lay  the  fat  in  the  spider,  and  fry  slowly  until  well 
done.  If  the  ham  is  too  salt,  lay  the  lean  slices  in  milk-warm  water 
while  the  fat  is  frying.  When  nearly  done,  remove  the  fat  to  one 
side  of  the  spider,  and  lay  the  lean  ham  flat  on  the  bottom ;  brown  as 
quickly  as  possible,  turn  it  on  the  other  side,  and  take  it  up  as  soon 
as  browned.  If  cooked  hard  it  is  poor  eating.  Serve  with  fried  eggs, 
fried  or  baked  potatoes,  grated  horseradish,  or  apple  sauce. 

Sijpeeior  Broiled  Ham. — Select  the  leanest  part,  and  cut  the 
slices  evenly  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Have  ready  a  bed  of 
nice  bright  coal,  and  warm  the  platter  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ; 
lay  the  gridiron  over  the  coals  until  nearly  hot  enough  to  hiss ;  then 
rub  it  off,  lay  on  the  ham,  and  broil  quickly.  It  should  be  browned 
a  trifle  where  it  touches  the  bars  of  the  gridiron,  so  as  to  look  striped. 
When  broiled  both  sides  lay  it  on  the  platter,  place  a  piece  of  sweet 
butter  on  each  slice,  and  dust  on  a  trifle  of  pepper.  Serve  with 
mashed  potatoes,  boiled  eggs,  and  grated  horseradish.  If  too  salt  it 
will  be  necessary  to  lay  the  slices  in  tepid  water  to  freshen,  although 
much  of  its  flavor  will  be  lost  in  the  freshening.  Dessert  for  fried 
and  broiled  ham,  apple  or  tart  pie ;  in  winter,  mince  pie. 

Plain  Beoiled  Salt  Poek. — Cut  the  pork  thin,  gash  the  rind, 
and  parboil  until  freshened.  Broil  until  brown,  lay  it  on  a  hot  plat- 
ter, and  make  a  gravy  of  a  little  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  hot  water, 
and  a  dust  of  pepper.  Serve  with  baked  potatoes,  boiled  eggs,  and 
cold  ham. 

Supeeior  Beoiled  Salt  Poek. — Cut  the  pork  very  thin,  lay  the 
slices  on  the  gridiron,  commence  on  one  side  of  the  gridironj  take 
up  each  piece  of  pork  separately  and  dip  it  in  a  bowl  of  water, 
laying  it  down  on  the  opposite  side  each  time ;  continue  to  do  this 
until  the  pork  is  broiled  quite  brownish,  then  roll  it  in  flour,  and  lay 
each  bit  on  the  gridiron.    Brown  the  flour  a  trifle  on  one  side,  and 


96 

then  turn  it  to  brown  the  other ;  it  must  not  burn,  or  it  will  be  bitter. 
Prepare  a  nice  butter  gravy  with  a  little  pepper  and  a  spoonful  or 
two  of  water,  heat  it  over  water,  and  lay  the  pork  on  the  platter  in 
nice  order.  Serve  with  boiled  potatoes,  mashed;  peas  or  asparagus 
toast ;  cucumbers  or  pickles.  If  the  potatoes  are  new,  plain  boiled 
is  best. 

To  Fey  Bacon. — Bacon  should  be  nicely  browned  without  burn- 
ing. If  too  salt,  freshen  it  by  laying  the  slices  in  warm  water.  Serve 
with  eggs  and  baked  potatoes.  For  relishes,  pickles,  or  any  acid 
fruit,  stewed,  is  proper. 

Supeeiob  Poek  and  Beans. — Look  over  the  beans,  and  put  them 
in  soak  the  evening  previous  to  cooking,  in  soft  water.  Parboil,  and 
throw  off  the  water  twice ;  prepare  a  piece  of  pork  and  put  it  in  the 
beans  with  the  third  water.  Let  the  water  boil  up,  skim,  and  boil 
five  minutes,  and  drain  both  pork  and  beans  thoroughly.  Have  ready 
boiling  water,  put  the  beans  and  pork  in  the  pot  with  as  little  water 
as  will  cover  them,  simmer  gently  until  tender.  The  water  should 
all  be  evaporated  when  done,  leaving  the  beans  nearly  dry.  Taste, 
and  if  not  sufficiently  salted  by  the  pork,  season  with  more,  but  be 
careful  not  to  get  too  much  salt.  Spread  the  beans  evenly  in  a  baking 
dish ;  slash  the  pork,  and  put  it  on  a  pan  by  itself  to  bake ;  it  should 
be  handsomely  browned.  Stir  up  the  beans  often  until  within  twenty 
minutes  of  dinner-time,  then  spread  them  evenly,  and  let  them  brown. 
If  they  do  not  look  sufficiently  brown,  wet  them  over  with  egg,  and 
brown  with  hot  iron  or  any  other  manner  convenient.  Lay  the  pork 
in  the  middle,  without  the  fat  which  dripped  from  it  in  roasting.  This 
will  be  found  much  more  healthy  than  when  prepared  after  the  old 
rule  of  baking  pork  and  beans  in  the  same  dish.  Serve  as  dessert  a 
baked  Indian  pudding.  Horseradish,  catsups,  -and  pickles,  arethe  best 
relishes.  Stewed  beans  are  prepared  as  above,  and  gently  boiled  in  the 
last  water  with  the  pork,  until  nearly  dry.  Beans  should  be  cooked 
in  soft  water,  or,  if  hard,  with  a  small  bit  of  soda  in  the  water. 

To  Boil  a  Feesh  Ham. — This  is  very  excellent  when  well  pre- 
pared ;  cut  off  all  the  fat,  and  skin  with  a  sharp  knife,  leaving  the 
ham  in  good  shape  for  the  table ;  put  it  in  cold  water  well  salted, 
and  seasoned  with  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  and  one 
of  pepper ;  skim  the  pot  carefully,  and  keep  the  ham  under  the  water ; 
boil  steadily  three  hours ;  serve  cold,  and  garnish  with  parsley  or 
celery. 


PORK.  97 

To  Serve  Cold  Roast  Pork. — Cut  the  slices  very  thinly  across  the 
grain,  dust  on,  if  not  sufficiently  salt,  a  trifle  of  fine  salt  on  each  slice 
as  it  is  cut ;  if  for  breakfast  or  dinner,  serve  with  it  hot  slaw  and 
mashed  potatoes. 

To  Serve  Cold  Boiled  Ham. — Cut  the  slices  very  thin  across  the 
grain,  and  lay  them  evenly  on  the  platter,  or  put  the  ham  whole  on 
the  table  before  the  carver ;  serve  with  potatoes,  poached,  scrambled 
or  boiled  eggs,  and  grated  horseradish ;  the  potatoes  should  be  mashed 
and  nicely  seasoned,  or  baked.  To  prepare  a  boiled  ham  for  the  table : 
(see  To  Boil  Ham)  remove  the  skin  without  tearing  the  flesh,  and 
garnish  with  pepper  put  on  in  spots,  cloves,  and  parsley ;  the  cloves 
can  be  used  to  fasten  sprigs  of  parsley;  cold  boiled  eggs  cut  in 
slices  laid  on  the  edge  of  the  platter,  with  sprigs  of  double  curled 
parsley,  make  a  good  appearance.  Baked  or  roasted  hams  are  said  to 
be  superior  to  boiled.  Boiled  pork  is  garnished  much  in  the  same 
manner,  omitting  cloves  and  eggs. 

To  Roast  a  Pig. — After  the  pig  is  well  dressed,  and  every  part 
in  proper  order,  wipe  it  clean  and  dry,  and  proceed  to  make  the  dress- 
ing ;  it  should  be  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sifted  sage,  and 
thyme  ;  crowd  the  pig  as  full  as  possible,  put  a  potato  in  the  mouth, 
bend  the  legs  that  it  may  lay  strong  upon  its  knees;  rub  the  skin  all 
over  with  sweet  butter,  and  bake  or  roast  three  hours  steadily  ;  if  the 
skin  blisters,  prick  it  and  wet  the  spot  with  the  drippings.  The 
beauty  of  a  roasted  pig  consists  in  browning  the  skin  evenly  all  over 
without  burning,  and  having  it  thoroughly  done  through.  As  this 
book  may  fall  into  the  hands  of  persons  in  the  country,  it  may  not  be 
amiss  to  give  some  directions  for  dressing  pigs.  The  pig  should  be 
from  four  to  six  weeks  old,  fat  and  healthy.  After  the  pig  is  stuck, 
examine  the  temperature  of  the  water,  this  is  the  most  important 
thing  in  the  whole  operation ;  if  too  hot,  so  as  to  cook  the  skin,  it  will 
be  rough  and  difficult  to  clean,  or  if  not  hot  enough  it  will  not  start 
the  bristle  from  the  roots ;  drop  a  few  drops  of  fresh  blood  in  the  wa- 
ter ;  if  instantly  changed  to  a  whitish  color,  it  is  too  hot ;  if  it  retains 
its  color,  and  tints  the  water,  it  is  too  cold;  but  if  it  changes  to  a 
milky  color  in  a  few  seconds,  it  is  the  proper  temperature.  After  the 
pig  is  once  dipped  in  the  water,  rub  it  over  with  a  little  pulverized 
rosin  ;  this  will  melt  and  mat  the  hair  together,  greatly  facilitating  its 
removal ;  a  small  opening  as  possible  should  be  made  for  the  removal 
of  the  inwards,  always  avoid  opening  the  breast,  as  it  makes  the  stuffing 
5 


98 

it  more  troublesome.  Particular  paius  should  be  taken  with  the 
nose,  ears,  and  feet ;  the  liver  and  heart  should  be  saved  to  boil  for 
thickening  the  gravy.  Never  serve  roast  pig  without  sour  apples 
stewed  plain,  without  sugar,  or  other  sour  sauce. 

Sausages. — The  proper  seasoning  is  salt,  pepper,  sage,  summer- 
savory,  or  thyme ;  they  should  be  one-third  fat,  the  remainder  lean, 
finely  chopped,  and  the  seasonings  well  mixed,  and  proportioned  so 
that  one  herb  may  not  predominate  over  the  others.  If  skins  are 
used,  they  cannot  be  prepared  with  too  much  care ;  but  they  are  about 
as  well  made  into  cakes ;  spread  the  cakes  on  a  clean  whitewood  board, 
and  keep  them  in  a  dry  cool  place  ;  fry  them  long  and  gently ;  serve 
with  potatoes,  cider-apple  sauce,  plain  stewed  apples  without  sugar, 
baked  sour  apples  or  sour  pickles. 

Laed. — Leaf  lard  is  the  nicest  for  all  cooking  purposes ;  skin  all 
the  fat  that  is  to  be  tried  into  lard,  and  commence  by  frying  gently  a 
little  leaf  lard,  or  your  fat  will  scorch ;  let  it  cook  slowly,  and  dip  off 
the  fat  as  fast  as  it  is  liquefied,  and  strain  it  through  a  cloth  ;  when  all 
is  strained  that  can  be  dipped  off,  squeeze  the  remainder  by  itself  in 
the  cloth.  If  the  lard  is  to  be  used  for  cooking,  salt  it  a  trifle  when 
first  put  on ;  but  if  for  burning  in  lard  lamps,  salt  would  be  inju- 
rious. If  the  fat  is  not  skinned  before  trying,  the  gluten  in  the  skin 
will  make  the  lard  impure  and  frothy.  Save  the  scraps  and  skins  for 
soap  grease. 

Souse. — Cleanse  well  the  feet,  legs,  nose,  and  snout  of  the  hog3, 
scald,  scrape,  and  singe  them  ;  then  boil  them  in  water  in  which  has 
Keen  thrown  a  handful  of  salt,  until  tender,  when  it  will  fall  to  pieces, 
take  it  up,  pick  out  all  the  bones,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  until 
wanted  for  the  table.  To  prepare  it  for  the  table  in  the  best  manner, 
cut  it  in  small  bits,  lay  it  in  a  spider,  and  fry  it  brown  in  its  own  fat, 
then  add,  if  needed,  salt,  a  bit  of  butter,  a  dust  of  flour,  a  little  pepper, 
and  sufficient  strong  vinegar  to  make  a  floating  gravy ;  let  it  simmer 
in  this  three  minutes,  and  then  dish  it ;  serve  with  mashed  potatoes. 
It  is  considered  a  breakfast  dish ;  if  used  for  dinner,  a  sweet  dessert 
should  be  provided. 

Picexed  Pig's  Feet.— Boil  until  a  straw  can  be  ran  through  them 
in  water  in  which  a  little  salt  has  been  thrown,  pack  them  in  jars, 
and  pour  over  them  very  strong  vinegar,  with  or  without  spices  to 
suit  the  taste. 


PORK.  99 

IIead-ciieese. — Boil  the  head  of  a  hog,  after  seeing  it  well  cleansed 
and  the  eyes  removed,  tender.  When  it  is  boiled  to  rags,  drain  it 
in  a  colander,  chop  it  as  fine  as  possible,  season  to  taste  with  pepper, 
salt,  sage,  and  thyme;  press  all  the  water  from  it,  put  it  in  a  form, 
and  press  it  until  cold ;  to  use,  cut  it  in  thin  slices  like  cheese ;  if 
properly  prepared,  will  keep  all  winter. 

Fresh  Pork  Pot-pie. — Boil  a  spare-rib,  after  removing  all  the  fat, 
and  cracking  the  bones,  until  tender ;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and 
when  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  half  an  hour  before  time 
for  serving  the  dinner,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour,  have 
ready  another  kettle  into  which  remove  all  the  bones  and  most  of 
the  gravy,  leaving  only  sufficient  to  cover  the  pot  half  an  inch 
above  the  rim  that  rests  on  the  stove ;  turn  a  small  plate  upside 
down  in  the  kettle,  and  put  in  the  crust ;  cover  tight,  and  boil  steadily 
twenty-five  minutes.  To  prepare  the  crust,  work  into  light  dough  a 
small  bit  of  butter,  roll  it  out  thin,  cut  it  in  small  square  cakes,  and 
lay  them  on  the  moulding-board  until  very  light;  if  made  with 
brewers'  yeast,  the  butter  should  be  melted  in  the  wetting  of  the 
crust,  and  rolled  out  before  rising,  as  the  first  effervescence  of  brew- 
ers' yeast  is  the  strongest ;  work  the  dough  well  before  making  up 
the  cakes. 

Tenderloin  of  Pork  to  Broil. — Broil  until  perfectly  cooked,  over 
bright  coal,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Pork  Cutlets. — Dust  over  some  slices  of  lean,  white  fresh  pork, 
a  little  salt,  and  pepper ;  fry  it  slowly  in  pork  fat,  until  well  cooked, 
but  not  browned  ;  have  ready  a  batter  of  egg  and  flour,  and  just  be- 
fore serving  dip  in  the  pork,  and  fry  until  the  egg  is  fried,  but  not 
browned. 

A  Nice  way  to  Fry  Fresh  Pork. — First  cut  the  fat  in  small  bits, 
dust  on  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  thyme,  or  summer  savory ;  fry  until 
nearly  brown  enough,  then  cut  the  lean  a  little  smaller  than  the  fat, 
season  the  same,  and  fry  without  hardening  until  thoroughly  done ; 
serve  with  plain  apple-sauce  without  sugar.  Fresh  pork  can  be  fried 
to  imitate  broiling.    {See  Fried  Beeesteak,  No.  2.) 


100 


CHAPTER    V. 

VENISON,  LAMB,  MUTTON,  AND  VEAL. 

Remakes. — ."Venison  should  be  well  done  without  being  dried.  A 
haunch  of  buck  venison,  weighing  twenty  pounds,  will  require  five 
hours  to  roast,  allowing  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound;  the  doe- 
haunches  are  not  quite  as  large,  one  weighing  about  eighteen  pounds 
will  require  about  three  and  a  half  hours,  allowing  about  thirteen 
minutes  to  the  pound.  Before  roasting,  cover  the  fat  with  white 
buttered  paper,  and  the  paper  with  a  coarse  paste  made  of  flour  and 
water,  this  will  prevent  the  fat  from  burning ;  baste  the  joint  as  soon 
as  it  warms  with  salted  water  and  butter,  and  continue  to  do  so  as 
long  as  it  is  roasting ;  about  twenty-five  minutes  before  it  is  done, 
remove  the  covering  from  the  fat,  cleanse  the  dripping  pan,  and  pre- 
pare some  melted  butter,  and  baste  the  haunch  after  it  has  been 
dredged  lightly  with  flour.  Garnish  with  white  paper,  ruffled  round 
the  knuckles.  Prepare  a  gravy  with  the  browned  butter  left  in  the  pan, 
or  make  any  fancy  gravy  prepared  with  wine  or  acids ;  serve  with 
currant-jelly,  cold  or  melted,  or  cranberry-sauce  hot  or  cold. 

To  Eoast  a  Neok  oe  Shottldeb  of  Venison. — Roast  without 
covering  ;  it  requires  less  time  than  a  haunch  ;  baste  as  directed  for 
a  haunch ;  prepare  a  sauce  with  wine,  jelly,  or  of  the  juices  of  the 
meat  alone. 

Stewed  Venison  Shotjldee. — Remove  the  bone,  and  beat  the  flesh 
until  tender,  soak  a  part  of  the  fat  in  wine :  port  is  considered  the 
best  for  this  purpose ;  lay  it  upon  the  under  side  of  the  shoulder,  dust 
them  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and,  if  relished,  finely  pulverized  nut- 
meg, and  cloves ;  the  latter  in  very  small  proportion ;  then  roll  up 
the  shoulder,  leaving  the  fat  on  the  inside,  and  bind  it  lightly  to- 
gether ;  put  it  in  a  small-sized  stew-pan,  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  veal 
broth  mixed  with  a  pint  of  wine ;  if  the  shoulder  is  not  covered,  add 
more  broth ;  cover  closely  and  stew  gently  for  four  hours ;  when  done, 
open  it,  spread  the  meat  neatly  on  the  platter,  strain  the  gravy,  and 
pour  it  over  the  shoulders  ;  if  very  fat,  use  but  a  small  part  of  the  fat, 
or  it  will  be  too  rich  to  be  agreeable ;  if  the  wine  is  disliked,  omit  it 
and  the  spices,  and  thicken  the  gravy  a  trifle  with  flour,  or,  if  rel- 
ished, melt  currant  or  cranberry  jelly  in  the  gravy. 


VENISON,    LAMB,    MUTTON,    AND   VEAL.  101 

Superior  Venison  Steak. — This  manner  of  cooking  venison  is  the 
most  healthy,  and  perhaps  the  most  universally  agreeable  ;  the  recipe 
was  obtained  from  an  old  hunter,  at  the  west.  Broil,  as  you 
would  a  rare  beef  steak  ;  have  ready  a  gravy,  prepared  with  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  very  little  water ;  heat  the  gravy,  without  boiling 
or  frying  the  butter ;  cut  the  steak  in  small  bits,  not  larger  than  a 
ten-cent  piece,  put  it  in  the  gravy,  and  cover  tight,  keep  it  hot 
enough  to  steam  the  meat  sufficiently  to  coagulate  the  blood,  but 
no  hotter ;  serve  in  a  covered  dish,  well  heated. 

Directions  for  Eoasting  a  Quarter  of  Lamb. — Paper  the  roast 
all  over,  baste  frequently,  and  cook  thoroughly ;  if  underdone,  it  is  not 
fit  to  eat ;  when  sufficiently  roasted,  the  gravy  which  drops  from  it 
is  entirely  free  from  color ;  remove  the  paper  half  an  hour  before 
taking  it  from  the  fire ;  dredge  it  with  flour,  and  baste  it  with  butter, 
until  it  has  penetrated  the  meat ;  brown  nicely.  The  first  basting 
liquid  should  be  prepared  with  a  little  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  to 
season  the  meat ;  some  advise  to  cut  off  the  fore  shoulder  and  lift  the 
flesh  with  a  fork,  and  season  it  with  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  a  little 
lemon-juice  ;  if  done,  the  shoulder  must  be  replaced  neatly,  so  as  not 
to  mar  the  quarter.  It  is  easier  to  run  a  knife  in  the  flesh  in  several 
places,  making  openings,  without  removing  any  of  the  flesh,  and  dust 
in  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon-juice,  if  relished.  Serve  with  mint-sauce, 
the  gravy  of  the  quarter,  or  plain.  Asparagus,  peas,  and  potatoes, 
are  the  vegetables  proper  for  serving  with  lamb ;  for  relishes  use  salads. 
For  dessert  serve  a  light  pudding,  easy  of  digestion,  and  fruit. 

Lamb  Chops. — Fry  them  a  light  brown,  in  butter,  then  add  a  little 
water,  flour,  salt,  and  a  dust  of  pepper,  to  the  gravy,  let  it  brown  and 
pour  it  over  the  chops. 

Broiled  Lamb  Steak. — Broil  slowly  until  quite  done,  then  make 
a  gravy  with  fresh  butter  melted  by  the  steak,  add  a  dust  of  pepper, 
and  a  little  salt  dissolved  in  a  table-spoon  of  water ;  serve  with  peas, 
potatoes,  and  salads. 

To  BorL  a  Leg  of  Lamb. — "Wash,  and  trim  the  leg  nicely,  have 
ready  water  that  has  boiled,  and  been  skimmed,  soft  water  is  the  best ; 
put  in  the  leg,  when  the  water  is  nearly  or  quite  boiling  hot,  and  remove 
the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises ;  when  it  has  boiled  five  minutes,  throw  in 
the  pot  sufficient  salt  to  give  the  water  a  saline  taste,  and  boil  the  water 
briskly  until  the  scum  is  all  removed,  then  simmer  until  tender ;  th© 


102         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

water  should  be  kept  to  nearly  boiling  heat,  and  the  pot  tightly  covered 
all  the  time.  If  the  amount  of  water  decreases,  fill  the  pot  with  hot 
water  from  the  tea-kettle  ;  serve  with  nice  drawn  butter,  flavored  with 
celery,  parsley,  lemon-juice,  or  mint  if  preferred.  The  vegetables 
should  be  peas,  potatoes,  celery,  and  lettuce.  The  pudding  a  boiled 
fruit,  or  plain,  with  a  third  course  of  fruit. 

Lamb  Cutlets. — Trim  the  slices  free  from  fat,  beat  up  the  yolk 
of  egg  with  rasped  bread  or  crackers,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
dip  in  the  cutlets  and  fry  in  butter  gently,  until  thoroughly  done. 

To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Mutton. — Cut  off  the  bone  close  to  the  flesh, 
and  nicely  trim  the  knuckle.  Pour  over  it  milk  boiling  hot,  and 
let  it  lay  until  the  milk  is  cold.  Cover  it  with  cold  water  in  the  stew- 
pan,  add  salt,  and  simmer  gently  until  done.  Remove  the  scum  as 
fast  as  it  rises  to  the  surface  of  the  water.  It  will  take  from  two  to 
two  and  a  half  hours  to  boil.  Serve  with  boiled  turnips,  onions, 
potatoes,  and  caper  sauce  ;  if  the  caper  sauce  is  not  to  be  had,  make 
a  sauce  of  drawn  butter  flavored  with  celery. 

To  Boil  a  Neck  of  Mutton. — Boil  it  with  the  skin  on,  after  it 
has  soaked  in  hot  milk  and  water.  Eemove  the  skin  before  it  is 
served.     Make  a  sauce  of  drawn  butter  and  celery. 

Stewed  Loin  of  Mutton  to  Resemble  Yenison. — Take  out  the 
bones  and  boil  them  for  the  gravy.  Season  the  fat  and  lean  before  roll- 
ing up.  In  every  other  respect,  proceed  as  in  Stewed  Venison.  Add 
to  the  gravy  mushroom  catsup,  whether  the  wine  is  used  or  not,  and 
thicken  with  butter  and  flour.  Serve  with  onions,  parsnips,  turnips, 
and  potatoes. 

To  Roast  a  Haunch  of  Mutton. — Have  a  brisk  fire.  Soak  the 
haunch  in  hot  milk  and  water,  rinse  off  the  milk  and  wipe  it  dry. 
Rub  it  over  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  then  cover  it  entirely  with 
paper,  baste  frequently,  and  half  an  hour  before  serving  remove  the 
paper,  and  brown  the  roast.  Prepare  a  nice  gravy  of  the  juices  of  the 
mutton.  Serve  with  sour  jellies  of  any  kind,  cauliflower  or  cabbage 
boiled  to  imitate  cauliflower,  onions,  squash,  turnips,  and  potatoes. 
The  dessert  should  be  delicate. 

Beoiled  Mutton  Chops. — Cut  the  chops  from  the  loin,  or  best 
part  of  the  neck,  trim  them,  and  remove  a  part  of  the  fat,  pepper 
lightly,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  them  often  until  quite  done. 


VENISON,    LAMB,    MUTTON,   AND   VEAL.  103 

Have  a  platter  over  hot  water,  dish  the  chops,  and  lay  on  them  bits 
of  butter,  add  a  spoonful  or  two  of  boiling  water,  in  which  is  dis- 
solved a  little  salt,  and  serve  immediately. 

Feied  Mutton  Chops. — Prepare  the  chops,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  fry  gently  in  pork  fat,  turning  them  very  often.  When 
done,  remove  them  to  a  hot  platter,  cleanse  the  platter,  brown  a 
little  butter  and  flour,  add  a  little  water,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  the 
chops. 

To  Boil  a  Fillet  of  Yeal. — Eemove  the  bone,  and  fill  the  cavity 
with  a  dressing  of  bread  and  butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
but  not  moistened,  crowd  it  as  closely  as  possible,  and  sew  it  firmly, 
so  that  none  of  the  dressing  can  escape.  Boil,  and  skim  the  water, 
then  put  in  the  veal,  and  keep  the  water  to  within  twelve  degrees  of 
boiling  until  tender.  {See  Uses  of  Theemometee  in  the  Kitchen.) 
Remove  all  the  scum  that  rises  to  the  surface.  "When  done,  strain  some 
of  the  gravy,  season  and  enrich  it  with  butter,  and  thicken  with  a 
little  flour.  Sweet  cream  may  be  used,  in  place  of  butter,  flavored 
with  mushroom  powder  or  the  catsup.  Egg  sauce  is  also  fine  with 
veal ;  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  veal  gravy, 
after  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  and  the  butter  and  flour  added  to  it. 
The  sauce  must  not  boil  after  the  egg  is  added. 

To  Roast  a  Fillet  of  Veal. — Fill  the  space,  from  which  the 
bone  is  removed,  with  a  dressing  of  bread  and  butter  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  moistened  with  water  or  sweet  milk.  Roast 
thoroughly,  and  baste  with  water  and  melted  butter,  seasoned  with  a 
little  pepper,  and  salt  frequently.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings. 
Serve  with  potatoes  mashed,  squash,  and  pickles.  For  dessert 
a  whortleberry  or  blackberry  pudding,  or  pie. 

Loin  of  Yeal. — To  Roast. — Roast  as  a  fillet,  with  or  without 
stuffing.  -  Cover  the  fat  with  paper. 

To  Roast  a  Beeast  of  Yeal. — Cut  off  the  thin  end,  and  roast  until 
thoroughly  done.  Baste  constantly,  or  the  skin  will  become  hard 
and  dry.  Toast  bread,  and  lay  it  under  the  kidneys.  Make  a  gravy 
of  melted  butter,  and  pour  over  the  whole  breast.  Serve  with  peas, 
cauliflower,  squash,  turnips,  and  potatoes. 

To  Roast  a  Shoulder  of  Yeal.— Take  off  the  knuckle  just  above 
the  joint,  fill  the  loose  skin  with  dressing,  and  bind  or  skewer  it  down. 


104  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Roast  thoroughly,  and  baste  frequently ;  serve  with  the  gravy  of  the 
roast,  browned  and  thickened. 

Breast  of  Yeal  with  Oyster  Sauce. — Rub  the  veal  all  over 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  it  with  buttered  paper,  and  then  with 
coarse  paste,  baste  frequently,  to  prevent  the  paper  and  paste  from 
burning ;  half  an  hour  before  serving,  remove  the  paste  and  paper. 
Beat  the  white  of  an  egg,  add  a  very  little  loaf  sugar,  and  wet  the 
veal  with  the  egg  and  sugar,  without  leaving  any  lumps  of  the  glazing, 
and  brown  it  nicely.  Prepare  a  drawn  butter  with  oysters,  and  serve 
the  sauce  in  a  tureen.  This  sauce  can  be  used  with  roast  or  boiled 
veal,  to  good  advantage,  if  oysters  are  plenty.  Serve  with  mashed  po- 
tatoes, and  celery. 

Stewed  Yeal. — Cut  the  veal  in  small  bits,  stew  in  a  little  water 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  until  tender ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour. 

Fricassee  of  Yeal. — Cut  in  bits  lean  veal,  and  parboil  in  salted 
water.  Drain  off  the  water,  dust  the  veal  with  flour  and  brown  in 
butter ;  add  sufficient  of  the  broth  for  the  gravy  to  the  browned 
butter,  and  thicken  very  little  with  flour.  Toast  bread,  lay  the  slices 
on  the  platter,  lay  on  each  slice  a  part  of  the  veal,  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  the  whole.    Serve  with  mashed  potatoes. 

Yeal  Cutlets. — Trim  free  from  fat,  slices  of  nice  veal,  beat  up 
the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  mix  in  rolled  cracker  or  rasped  bread,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  roll  the  cutlets  in  the  preparation,  and 
fry  gently  in  butter,  without  burning,  until  thoroughly  cooked. 
Serve  with  the  oiled  butter  remaining  in  the  spider. 

Yeal  Pie. — Prepare  a  plain  paste,  cover  a  deep  plate  with  it, 
set  it  in  the  oven  until  baked.  Have  ready  veal  that  has  been  par- 
boiled, cut  in  small  bits,  lay  the  meat  on  the  crust,  until  it  is  evenly 
full,  put  in  each  pie  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  the  bowl  of  a  table- 
spoon, broken  in  small  bits,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  a  spoonful  of 
flour,  and  a  little  of  the  broth  in  which  the  veal  was  boiled.  Put 
on  the  top  crust,  which  should  be  made  rather  richer  than  the  bot- 
tom, and  rolled  thin,  Bake  immediately  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve 
with  potatoes,  and  any  other  dressed  vegetables ;  sponge-cake,  or  any 
other  cake  pudding  is  a  proper  dessert. 

Yeal  Pot-pie. — Boil  the  veal,  and  proceed  exactly  as  directed  in 
chicken  pot-pie. 


VENISON,    LAMB,    MUTTON,    AND   VEAL.  105 

To  Boil  Calf's  Head. — Split  the  head  in  two  parts,  and  remove 
the  brains,  wash  the  brains  in  three  waters,  and  lay  them  for  an  hour 
in  cold  salted  water.  Wash  the  head  clean,  and  soak  it  in  tepid 
water,  until  the  blood  is  well  drawn  out.  Put  it  in  cold  water ;  when 
it  boils  remove  the  scum,  and  simmer  gently,  until  a  straw  can  be 
run  through  it.  A  head  with  the  skin  will  take  three  hours,  if  large, 
and  without  the  skin  two.  Scald  the  brains,  by  pouring  over  them  boil- 
ing water,  take  them  out  and  remove  the  skin  or  film,  put  them  in 
plenty  of  cold  water,  and  simmer  gently  fifteen  minutes.  Chop  them 
slightly,  stew  them  in  sweet  butter ;  add  a  teaspoon  ha]f  full  of  lemon- 
juice,  or  not,  as  desired,  and  a  little  salt ;  when  done,  skin  the  tongue, 
lay  it  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  the  brains  round  it.  Send  the 
head  to  the  table  very  hot,  with  drawn  butter  poure'd  over  it,  and 
more  in  the  tureen. 

To  Stew  Calf's  Head. — After  it  is  boiled  tender,  remove  all  the  bone 
without  disfiguring  the  head,  season  with  Cayenne  or  black  pepper, 
salt,  and  if  relished,  nutmeg ;  most  persons  not  accustomed  to  French 
cookery,  dislike  spices  in  meats  and  fish.  Fry  gently  in  sweet  butter 
until  slighty  browned,  then  make  a  gravy  of  the  liquor  enriched  with 
sweet  butter,  and  thickened  very  little  with  flour.  In  the  mean  time, 
prepare  the  brains  after  they  are  boiled  in  the  following  manner : 
mash  and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  or  with  whatever  the  head 
is  seasoned  with,  beat  the  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs,  mix  them  with 
flour,  and  stir  them  into  the  brains ;  incorporate  the  egg  and  brain 
into  one  mass,  make  it  in  balls,  brown  them  in  butter,  and  serve  the 
balls  with  the  head. 

Hashed  Calf's  Head. — After  it  is  boiled  well,  but  not  as  tender 
as  it  could  be  made  by  very  long  boiling,  remove  the  bones  from 
half  of  the  head,  cover  it  with  yolk  of  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
brown  it  before  the  fire ;  slice  the  remainder  of  the  head,  after 
peeling  the  tongue,  fut  a  pint  of  the  gravy  in  which  the  head  was 
boiled  in  a  pan,  with  oyster  liquor,  salt,  and  Cayenne,  and,  if  relished, 
an  onion  and  a  glass  of  sherry.  The  two  latter  can  be  omitted.  Boil 
these  ingredients  a  few  moments,  and  strain  it  on  the  meat,  having 
previously  dredged  it  with  flour.  The  addition  of  mushrooms,  and 
two  spoons  of  catsup,  will  improve  the  dish.  Beat  half  of  the  brains 
with  flour,  add  it  to  the  hash,  and  simmer  all  together;  garnish 
the  dish  with  balls  composed  of  yolks  of  egg,  and  the  other  half  of 
the  brain,  fried  oysters,  and  force-meat  balls. 
5* 


106         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Calf's  Brains. — After  removing  all  the  large  fibers  and  skin,  soak 
them  from  four  to  five  hours  in  water,  lay  them  in  boiling  water 
with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar  in  it,  afterwards  soak  them  in  a  strong 
white  vinegar,  a  solution  of  citric  acid,  or  lemon-juice.  Dry  them 
well,  dip  them  in  nice  butter,  and  fry  slowly  in  butter  until  done, 
and  nicely  browned.     Serve  with  drawn  butter,  or  a  sour  sauce. 

Calf's  Feet  and  Ears. — Boil  tender,  and  serve  with  drawn 
butter.    These  can  be  fricasseed,  if  desired. 

Calf's  Kidney. — Chop  calf  s  kidneys  after  being  boiled  tender, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  as  hash,  or  make  it  in  balls 
with  egg,  and  fry  them  in  butter. 

Calf's  Lights  and  Livers. — Parboil  and  chop  them,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  them  with  butter. 

Sweetbreads. — Trim  them  carefully,  soak  them  first  in  cold  water 
to  extract  the  blood,  and  afterwards  put  them  in  boiling  water  to 
blanch  them.  Boil  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  or  lard,  and  roast 
them  till  thoroughly  done,  and  serve  on  toast  with  a  nice  veal  gravy, 
or  slice  thin,  dip  them  in  egg,  and  fry  in  butter  until  well  done,  and 
nicely  browned. 


CHAPTER    VI. 

POULTEY    AND    GAME. 

To  Dress  Fowls  for  Market. — Give  no  food  for  twenty-four 
hours.  Instead  of  wringing  or  cutting  off  the  neck,  stick  it  with  a 
penknife.  If  the  head  is  cut  off,  the  skin  recedes  and  looks  revolting. 
Pick  them  immediately,  without  scalding,  and  carefully  remove  all 
pinfeathers,  particularly  from  the  legs  and  neck.  Do  not  tear  the  skin 
in  removing  the  feathers ;  singe,  and  then  draw  the  intestines ;  cut 
off  the  head ;  draw  the  skin  above  the  neck  bone  and  tie  it.  Have 
ready  water  nearly  boiling  hot.  Kinse  out  the  fowls,  wipe  them  dry, 
and  then  plump  them,  by  dipping  them  two  seconds  and  no  more  in 
the  hot  water,  and  then  immediately  into  cold  (if  ice- water  so  much 
the  better)  for  the  same  length  of  time. 

To  Truss  Fowls  and  Game. — To  truss  a  fowl  for  roasting,  draw 


POULTRY   AND    GAME.  107 

the  skin  over  the  bone  of  the  neck,  which  should  be  cut  close  to  the 
body,  leaving  the  skin  much  longer  than  the  neck  bone.  Break  the 
back  bone  and  the  two  leading  to  the  pinions.  Cut  off  the  first  joint 
of  the  legs,  turn  them  down  close  to  the  sides  towards  the  vent,  and 
fasten  them  in  place  by  a  game  skewer  passed  from  one  to  the  other. 
Place  the  gizzard  under  one  wing  and  the  liver  under  the  other,  and 
fasten  the  wings  close  to  the  body  with  a  slender  skewer  passing 
through" the  joint  of  one  wing  and  through  the  body  and  opposite  wing. 

To  Truss  a  Fowl  for  Boiling. — Cut  off  all  the  leg  except  the 
thigh ;  cut  a  slit  in  the  apron,  or  fat  skin  covering  the  belly  of  the 
fowl,  and  tuck  in  the  ends  of  the  bone.  Stuff  the  breast  out  very 
plump ;  tie  down  the  neck,  and  fasten  the  wings,  gizzard,  and  liver  as 
directed  in  roast  fowls. 

To  Truss  Fowls  in  French  Style. — Make  a  hole  above  the  joint 
of  the  leg,  and  skewer  the  claws  into  the  body.  Pass  a  string  from 
the  head  to  the  skewers,  draw  the  chicken  in  shape,  and  remove  the 
string  and  skewers  before  serving.  The  claws,  when  left  on  fowls, 
should  always  be  sMnned,  and  the  toes  cut  off. 

To  Truss  "Woodcocks,  Snipes,  and  all  Birds  Living  by  Suc- 
tion.— Kemove  the  feathers  with  great  care,  as  the  skin  is  easily 
broken.  Do  not  draw  them ;  the  trail  is  considered  the  most  delicate 
part  of  the  bird.  Wipe  them  carefully ;  tuck  the  head  under  the 
wing ;  bend  the  knees,  and  fasten  them  in  place  with  a  skewer  passed 
through  the  bo<jly. 

To  Truss  Moor  Fowls. — Truss  the  same  as  a  domestic  fowl,  except 
the  head  and  feet ;  tuck  the  head  under  the  wing ;  and  lay  the  bill  close 
to  the  body ;  bend  the  knees,  fasten  them  with  skewers ;  cross  the  feet 
at  the  tail  end,  and  fasten  them  in  place.  The  feet  should  be  skinned, 
and  the  toes  removed. 

To  Truss  Partridges. — Turn  the  head  under  the  wing ;  bend  the 
knees ;  pass  a  skewer  through  the  body ;  put  the  liver  and  gizzard 
under  the  wings ;  cross  the  feet  in  front,  and  fasten  them  at  the  first 
joint  of  the  leg. 

To  Truss  Pigeons. — Prepare  them  exactly  as  partridges.  Pick 
the  head  clean,  or  remove  it  entirely. 

To  Truss  Canvas-back  Duck. — Truss  the  same  as  the  domestic 
fowl,  except  the  head,  which  is  tucked  under  the  left  wing. 


10S  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

To  Truss  Keed  Birds. — Pick  and  draw  them  carefully  without 
breaking  the  skin ;  fasten  the  wings  and  legs  in  place  with  skewers. 

To  Truss  "Wild  Duck. — Proceed  in  exactly  the  same  manner  as 
directed  to  dress  and  truss  poultry. 

To  Truss  a  Goose. — Proceed  as  in  the  directions  for  turkey,  except 
that  the  liver,  legs,  heart,  and  most  of  the  neck,  are  boiled  together  to 
make  a  giblet  sauce. 

To  Prepare  Hares  and  Rabbits. — Remove  the  entrails  as  soon 
as  dead,  and  the  skin  just  before  cooking.  Epicures  keep  them  until 
the  fibre  begins  to  soften  before  dressing.  The  inside  of  the  body  must 
be  kept  dry,  and  it  is  well  to  dust  it  with  pepper  and  salt.  To  skin 
them  proceed  in  the  following  manner  :  Cut  off  the  legs  at  the  first 
joint,  raise  the  skin  on  the  back,  draw  it  over  the  hind  legs,  and  strip 
it  from  the  tail,  then  slip  it  over  the  fore  legs,  and  cut  it  away  from 
the  head  and  neck,  leaviDg  the  ears  on  the  head  as  perfect  as  possible. 
"Wash  them  well,  dry  with  a  towel  inside  and  out,  and  proceed  to 
truss  them.  Cut  the  sinews  of  the  hind  legs,  turn  them  towards  the 
head,  and  fasten  them  to  the  sides  of  the  hare  or  rabbit ;  then  turn 
the  fore  legs  to  meet  the  hind  legs,  and  fasten  both  with  skewers. 
The  head  is  crowded  a  little  back,  and  fastened  in  place  with  skewers. 
The  body  is  filled  with  dressing,  the  skin  sewed  up,  and  the  whole 
bound  firmly  in  shape  with  a  string ;  the  skewers  and  string  must  be 
removed  after  it  is  on  the  platter  before  sending  the  dish  to  the  table. 

To  Truss  Blackbirds  and  other  Small  Birds. — Pick  them  care- 
fully ;  cut  off  the  head,  leaving  the  neck  long ;  bend  the  neck  bone, 
draw  over  it  the  skin,  and  fasten  it  under  the  left  wing,  with  a 
small  skewer ;  stuff  the  birds,  sew  them  up,  and  fasten  the  legs  the 
same  as  a  partridge. 

To  Boil  a  Fowl,  No.  1. — Boil  a  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  for  half 
an  hour  after  changing  the  water  the  last  time,  then  put  in  a  fowl  with 
the  pork,  boil  gently  until  tender,  and  serve  with  plain  d^awn  butter. 

Boiled  Fowl,  IsTo.  2. — After  the  fowl  is  prepared,  fill  the  body 
with  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  but- 
ter. Put  it  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it  well,  and  stew  gently 
until  tender ;  serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Boiled  Fowl,  Ho.  3.— Boil  the  liver,  gizzard,  heart,  and  lower 


POULTRY    AND    GAME.  109 

part  of  the  legs,  in  very  little  water.  Chop  them  fine,  mix  them  with 
drawn  butter  and  bread  crumbs ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  sum- 
mer-savory. Stuff  the  fowl,  truss  properly,  and  boil  as  above ;  serve 
with  drawn  butter. 

Superior  Boiled  Fowls,  No.  4. — Stew  a  pint  of  oysters  in  their 
own  juice,  mix  them  with  half  a  pint  of  drawn  butter;  soak  dry 
bread  in  sweet  cream  until  soft,  and  season  it  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt ;  mix  the  bread  and  oysters  well  together,  and  fill  the  fowl.  Tuck 
the  liver  under  one  and  the  gizzard  under  the  other  wing,  and  boil 
gently. in  veal  stock  until  tender ;  serve  with  oyster  sauce. 

Steamed  Fowls. — Fowls  are  better  steamed  than  boiled,  especial- 
ly when  there  is  no  veal  stock  on  hand  to  boil  them  in.  When  steam- 
ed, the  juices  should  be  saved  by  placing  a  pan  under  the  strainer" 
to  catch  all  the  drips.  Drawn  butter,  plain  or  seasoned  with  parsley 
or  celery,  is  the  most  common  sauce  used  for  boiled  fowls.  Liver 
sauce  is  good ;  but  when  oysters  can  be  had,  oyster  sauce  is  to  be  pre^ 
ferred  above  all  others. 

Boiled  Turkey. — Turkey  is  boiled  in  much  the  same  manner  as 
the  fowl.  A  large  turkey  will  take  two  hours  to  boil,  if  tender ;  if 
old,  it  must  have  more  time.  If  steamed,  allow  three  hours.  A 
tough  turkey  will  be  better  boiled  than  steamed  or  roasted.  The 
vegetables  served  with  boiled  fowls  should  be  potatoes  and  turnips 
mashed,  and  boiled  onions.  The  relishes,  celery,  sour  pickles,  jellies, 
or  cranberries.  The  pudding  should  be  boiled,  and  the  sauce  decid- 
ed to  give  variety.  Fruit  would  form  a  nice  and  appropriate  third 
course. 

To  Boil  a  Goose. — After  it  is  well  dressed,  singe  it  thoroughly. 
Put  it  in  a  deep  dish,  and  cover  it  with  boiling  milk  until  morning. 
Early  in  the  morning  wash  off  the  milk,  and  put  the  goose  into  a  large 
kettle  of  cold  water ;  let  it  remain  until  nearly  or  quite  boiling  hot ; 
it  must  not  cook  or  you  cannot  truss  it.  This  is  done  to  remove  the 
strong  taste  of  the  oil ;  wash  it  again  in  warm  water,  and  dry  it  with 
a  towel.  Have  ready  a  dressing  prepared  as  for  Boiled  Fowl,  No.  2, 
with  the  addition  of  two  finely-chopped  onions,  a  little  sage,  and  more 
pepper  than  would  be  used  for  turkey.  Fill  the  body,  and  close  it 
firmly ;  put  it  in  cold  water,  and  boil  gently  an  hour,  if  tender ;  if  not, 
longer;  serve  with  giblet  sauce.  The  onion  can  be  omitted  if  not  rel- 
ished.   For  a  goose  the  relishes  should  be  decided;  sour  pickles,  plain 


110 

sour  apples  stewed  without  sugar,  or  acid  jellies,  are  the  most  proper ; 
beets,  turnip,  and  cauliflower,  are  proper  vegetables. 

To  Eoast  a  .Fowl. — Having  nicely  dressed  the  fowl,  have  ready 
a  dressing  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  summer-savory;  fill  the 
body  of  the  bird,  sew  up  the  opening,  truss  it  nicely,  oil  it  with  but- 
ter, and  put  it  before  a  moderately  hot,  but  bright  fire  ;  heat  the  skin 
evenly  as  soon  as  possible,  cover  it  with  paper  if  there  is  the  least 
danger  of  its  browning  too  soon,  roast  pretty  fast  without  scorching 
the  first  half  hour,  and  baste  the  fowl  all  over  every  five  minutes ; 
after  this  let  it  roast  steadily,  but  rather  slowly,  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  when,  if  young  and  tender,  it  will  be  done  quite  through. '  Stick 
a  fork  through  the  breast  and  thighs,  and  if  the  fluid  which  follows 
the  fork  is  entirely  free  from  blood,  it  is  done.  If  not  browned,  re- 
plenish the  fire,  wet  the  fowl  over  with  very  little  yolk  of  egg,  dust 
it  lightly  with  flour,  and  let  it  brown  evenly  all  over.  Eemove  the 
skewers  and  strings  before  sending  it  to  the  table. 

To  Bake  a  Fowl. — Prepare  a  fowl  as  for  roasting ;  have  the  oven 
of  good  but  not  a  raging  heat ;  you  should  be  able  to  count  twenty 
slowly,  while  holding  your  hand  in  the  oven.  Lay  the  fowl  on  skewers 
if  you  have  no  hooks  to  hang  it  by  in  the  oven ;  baste  every  five 
minutes,  and  manage  the  same  as  the  roast.  If  young,  it  will  bake 
in  one  hour. 

To  Eoast  a  Tttekey. — Proceed  as  directed  in  roast  fowls ;  allow 
from  two  and  a  half  to  three  hours  for  a  good-sized  tender  turkey. 
The  dressings  of  fowls  can  be  varied  by  using  oysters,  &c.  (See  the 
chapter  on  Gravies  and  Sauces.) 

To  Bake  a  Tttekey. — Follow  the  directions  for  baking  fowls,  and 
allow  from  two  to  two  and  a  half  hours  steady  baking  for  a  common- 
sized  young  turkey ;  serve  with  a  browned  gravy.  All  roast  fowls 
should  be  served  with  dressed  vegetables,  currant,  grape,  or  cranberry 
jelly,  and  a  baked  pudding  or  pie. 

To  Eoast  a  Goose. — Having  prepared  a  goose  as  already  directed 
for  boiling,  truss  it  nicely,  and  put  it  before  a  moderate  fire.  Let  it 
lose  all  the  oil  it  will,  and  baste  it  with  a  preparation  in  another  dish 
of  browned  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  little  water,  a  teaspoon  of  the  ex- 
tract of  sage  and  summer- savory.  If  not  offensive,  add  a  drop  or  two 
of  garlic.  (See  Exteacts  of  Heebs.)  Keep  the  drippings  separate 
from  the  bastings  until  nearly  done,  when  the  basting-pan  may  be  set 


POULTRY    AND    GAME.  Ill 

underneath  the  goose.  In  making  the  gravy  use  the  basting,  or  make 
a  fresh  gravy  of  browned  butter  flavored  with  the  extracts  or  not,  as 
desired.  If  no  extracts  are  used,  add  a  little  lemon  juice  to  the  sauce. 
Geese  are  so  strong  as  to  require  additional  seasoning  to  overcome 
their  natural  flavor. 

Natural  Roast  Goose. — Scald  the  goose  in  milk,  and  let  it  lay 
all  night ;  stuff  it  with  a  dressing  seasoned  with  sage,  pepper,  salt, 
summer-savory,  and,  if  not  disliked,  half  an  onion.  Roast  slowly ;  baste 
with  prepared  gravy  of  browned  butter,  a  little  water  and  pepper, 
and  make  a  gravy  of  the  bastings  without  using  the  drippings,  or 
port  wine  gravy,  seasoned  with  mustard,  salt,  Cayenne,  browned 
butter,  and  slightly  thickened  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Serve  with 
hot  slaw,  dressed  potatoes,  boiled  onions,  and  dressed  turnips. 

Green  Goose  Roasted. — Put  in  the  inside  sage,  onions,  salt,  Cay- 
enne, and  butter;  roast  well;  baste  with  butter,  and  brown;  serve 
with  a  nice  rich  gravy. 

To  Roast  Moor  Fowls. — After  they  are  dressed  and  singed,  fill 
their  bodies  with  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  but- 
ter, sew  up  the  opening,  and  truss  them  as  already  directed ;  hang 
them  before  a  clear  but  not  fierce  fire,  and  roast  until  done. through, 
basting  frequently.  Young  birds  will  roast  in  three-fourths  of  an 
hour,  and  a  full-grown  bird  will  take  from  fifty  to  sixty  minutes ; 
serve  with  a  brown  gravy,  currant  jelly,  and  dressed  potatoes. 

To  Roast  a  Partridge. — Prepare  the  bird  and  roast  it  in  every 
respect  as  the  moor  fowl.  "When  quite  done,  remove  it  from  the 
fire ;  game  is  ruined  if  overdone.  A  young  partridge  will  roast  in 
from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes,  and  an  old  one  may  take  forty 
minutes. 

To  Roast  a  Pheasant. — To  roast  a  pheasant  proceed  exactly  as 
in  roasting  a  moor  fowl ;  allow  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes  for  a 
full-grown  pheasant;  serve  with  browned  gravy,  acid  jelly,  and  dress- 
ed potatoes. 

To  Roast  Woodcock. — Pick  out  the  gall  and  gizzard,  but  do  not 
remove  the  remainder  of  the  trail.  This  is  not  usually  done,  but  as 
this  part  of  the  intestines  are  filled  with  pebbles  and  sand  it  is  better 
to  do  so.    Toast  bread,  and  lay  a  slice  under  each  bird,  to  catch  the 


112  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

drippings  of  the  trail,  which  is  considered  the  best  part  of  the  bird. 
Baste  with  butter,  brown  nicely,  roast  from  twenty  to  twenty -five 
minutes,  and  serve  with  currant  jelly. 

To  Koast  a  Peaieie  Chicken. — Dress  and  truss  as  a  partridge, 
roast  before  a  clear  fire  half  an  hour,  baste  often,  and  serve  with  brown 
gravy,  currant  jelly,  and  dressed  potatoes. 

To  Koast  "Wild  Duck. — Stuff  it  with  bread  moistened  with 
water,  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  chopped  onions. 
Truss  properly  (see  To  Truss  Duck),  and  put  it  to  roast  before  a 
clear  fire ;  baste  frequently  with  butter,  leave  in  the  dripping-pan  a 
piece  of  butter,  roast  brown,  serve  with  rich  brown  gravy  of  but- 
ter, or  a  port  wine  sour  sauce,  (see  Sauces,)  or  the  red.  gravy 
from  the  duck.  Or,  after  the  duck  is  nearly  done,  carve  it,  put  tho 
pieces  in  a  porcelain  stew-pan,  cover  the  meat  with  the  gravy,  cover 
tight,  and  set  the  stew-pan  ten  minutes  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ; 
keep  the  water  boiling  until  the  duck  is  removed ;  lay  it  in  order  on 
the  platter,  add  the  gravy,  and  serve  very  hot.  The  relishes  for  duck 
should  be  decided ;  if  a  jelly  is  used,  let  it  be  tart ;  if  apples,  very  sour, 
stewed  plain  without  sugar ;  dress  onions,  turnips,  and  potatoes. 

To  Koast  a  Canvas-back  Duck. — Dress  and  stuff  it  with  a  nice 
dressing  of  bread,  butter,  sage,  and  a  little  onion.  Roast  before  a 
brisk  fire,  baste  with  butter,  serve  with  its  own  gravy,  or  a  sauce 
made  with  port  wine,  etc.    (See  Sauces.) 

To  Koast  Quail,  Black  and  all  other  small  birds. — Pick  them 
with  great  care,  and  draw  them  so  as  to  leave  all  the  fat  in  the  bodies 
of  the  birds,  wash  and  dry  them  nicely.  Stuff  them  with  bread 
moistened  with  melted  butter  and  very  little  water,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Truss  them  nicely,  and  fasten  the  wings  and  legs 
in  place  with  very  small  skewers ;  roast  or  bake  them  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  basting  frequently.  Toast  some  nice  bread  quickly 
on  both  sides  without  burning,  make  up  the  gravy  from  the  drip- 
pings ;  soak  the  toast ;  lay  the  slices  in  order  on  the  platter,  allow- 
ing half  a  slice  to  each  bird,  remove  the  skewers  and  strings ;  set  a 
bird  on  each  half  slice  of  toast,  and  dip  the  gravy  over  them ;  serve 
hot.  "When  the  birds  are  roasted  without  stuffing,  they  will  cook  in 
from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

To  Roast  Snipe. — Snipes  are  roasted  like  woodcock,  but  require 


POULTRY    AND    GAME.  113 

seven  minutes  less  time  to  roast ;  serve  with  jelly  and  a  rich  gravy 
flavored  with  lemon,  or  port  wine  if  desired. 

To  Roast  Widgeons  and  Teals. — Roast  exactly  like  wild  ducks, 
but  in  much  less  time. 

Roasted  Haee. — After  the  hare  is  dressed,  parboil  the  liver,  and 
then  boil  it  with  a  slice  of  fat  ham  until  quite  tender ;  then  mash  it 
fine ;  soak  bread  in  milk,  mix  the  liver  with  the  bread,  add  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  sweet  marjoram,  Cayenne  pepper,  black  pepper, 
salt,  and  the  ham  chopped  fine ;  mix  the  ingredients  well,  fill  the  body 
of  the  hare,  and  sew  it  up.  Truss  the  hare.  {See  To  Truss  Hare  and 
Rabbit.)  When  the  hare  is  first  put  before  the  fire,  baste  with  boiled 
milk  half  an  hour  ;  then  remove  the  milk,  and  baste  with  butter  un- 
til done.  Just  before  it  is  done  froth  with  butter  and  flour ;  this  is 
done  by  merely  dredging  the  whole  surface  with  flour,  and  immedi- 
ately basting  with  fresh  hot  butter.  A  common-sized  hare  roasts  in 
an  hour  and  a  half.  Serve  with  Dice  drawn  butter  or  brown  gravy, 
and  melted  currant  or  cranberry  jelly. 

To  Roast  Rabbits. — Prepare  them  exactly  like  hare.  Boil  the 
liver,  chop  it,  mix  it  with  the  gravy,  and  season  with  parsley  if  rel- 
ished. The  foundation  of  the  gravy  should  be  drawn  butter ;  serve 
the  gravy  in  a  tureen.  A  rabbit,  if  young,  will  roast  in  from  thirty 
to  forty  minutes  ;  an  old  rabbit  in  from  fifty  to  sixty ;  they  will  bake 
ten  minutes  sooner  than  roast.  The  hare  and  rabbit  both  beiDg  very 
dry,  will  be  improved  by  the  basting  of  milk  ;  it  should  not  be  omitted. 
Hares,  rabbits,  and  roast  pigs  look  pretty  on  the  table  laid  on  a  bed 
of  double  curled  parsley,  the  stems  all  under  the  body,  and  the  leaves 
entirely  covering  the  platter;  cut  flowers  from  beets,  turnips,  and 
carrots,  and  lay  on  the  parsley ;  roses,  lilies,  morning  glories,  and 
spiderwort  are  very  easily  imitated. 

To  Boll  Rabbits. — Soak  them  in  warm  water  ten  minutes,  stun? 
and  truss  them  as  already  directed ;  put  them  in  cold  water  and  boil 
very  gently ;  if  young  and  small  they  will  require  half  an  hour,  if 
large  three-fourths  of  an  hour  to  boil.  Pour  over  the  rabbit  drawn 
butter,  and  send  some  to  the  table  in  a  tureen. 

To  Broil  a  Fowl. — The  fire  should  be  clear  but  not  scorching,  the 
gridiron  several  inches  from  the  coals,  and  rubbed  over  with  the  oil 
of  the  fowl,  a  small  bit  of  which  should  be  reserved  for  the  purpose. 
Split  the  fowl  down  the  back-bone,  roll  it  to  break  down  the  breast 


114 

bone,  dust  it  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  it  on  the  gridiron 
before  it  is  hot,  merely  warm  enough  to  melt  the  oil  in  greasing.  Put 
the  chicken  on  the  gridiron  breast  down,  and  let  it  broil  very  slow. 
Cover  the  gridiron  entirely  with  a  shallow  pan,  and  put  a  weight  on 
the  top  to  press  the  fowl  to  the  bars ;  as  soon  as  it  has  browned  a 
little  take  it  up,  dip  the  side  broiled,  in  butter,  pepper,  and  salt, 
melted  but  not  oiled  over  hot  water.  Turn  the  juice,  if  there  is  any 
standing  on  the  fowl,  into  the  gravy,  turn  the  chicken  over,  broil 
slowly  until  nearly  done,  then  turn  it ;  dip  on  to  it  a  little  of  the  gravy, 
and  broil  gently  until  done.  It  takes  full  half  an  hour  to  broil  a 
chicken  well;  if  hurried  it  will  be  worthless,  either  half  done  or 
burned  bitter.  When  done,  dip  it  in  the  gravy  both  sides ;  add  two 
table-spoons  of  boiling  water  to  the  dish,  mix  it  with  the  butter,  and 
serve  hot  with  mashed  potatoes  and  cold  slaw.  If  you  can  broil  one 
fowl  well,  you  can  broil  all  birds,  whether  domestic  or  wild. 

To  Roast  Pigeons. — Pigeons  are  usually  seasoned  with  chopped 
parsley,  but  they  may  be  stuffed  and  roasted  to  suit  the  taste.  If 
scalded  in  milk,  the  flavor  will  be  improved  and  the  flesh  will  not  be 
as  dry  as  it  will  without. 

To  Beoil  Quails. — A  quail  is  better  broiled  than  roasted,  boiled, 
or  fried.    Broil  a  quail  exactly  like  a  chicken,  and  serve  with  toast. 

To  Boil  a  Peaieie  Chicken,  Paeteidge,  oe  Pheasant. — Broil 
either  exactly  as  you  would  a  chicken,  but  very  slow,  so  as  not  to 
burn. 

To  Matte  a  Pigeon  oe  Quail  Pie. — Cover  the  pudding  baker  with 
puff  paste.  (See  Puff  Paste.)  Parboil  the  birds  until  nearly  done. 
Cut  them  through  the  back  or  leave  them  whole,  as  suits  the  fancy ; 
place  the  birds  in  the  pie  breast  to  back  if  whole,  and  flat,  with  the 
skin  side  down,  if  cut ;  sprinkle  over  pepper,  salt,  a  dust  of  flour,  and 
add  for  ten  quails  a  teacup  of  butter.  If  the  pie  takes  more  than 
one  layer  of  birds,  divide  the  butter  equally  between  the  layers,  and 
add  flour,  pepper,  and  salt  to  each  layer.  Pour  in  as  much  of  the 
broth  in  which  the  birds  were  boiled  as  the  dish  will  hold,  if  it  is  a 
quail  pie  ;  if  a  pigeon,  use  veal  or  chicken  soup,  or  water  with  more 
butter.  Put  over  the  top  crust,  cut  a  gash  in  the  top,  and  bake  it  in  a 
brisk  though  not  over-hot  oven ;  cover  the  paste  with  paper  before 
it  commences  to  brown,  to  keep  it  white  while  baking. 


POULTRY    AND    GAME.  115 

Chicken  Pie. — This  is  made  as  above,  except  the  chicken  is  cut 
at  each  joint  before  it  is  parboiled.  To  make  a  chicken  pie  extra 
nice,  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  boil  the  livers  and  hearts,  mash 
them,  put  them  in  the  gravy,  and  bake  the  pie  in  a  dish  not  deeper 
than  a  large  soup-plate.  Oysters  mixed  with  the  chicken  makes  a 
delightful  pie. 

Chicken  oe  ant  Bird  Pot-pie. — Cut  the  chickens  at  each  joint, 
and  boil  until  tender ;  prepare  a  crust  as  directed  in  biscuits  made 
of  hop  yeast.  {See  Part  III.  Chap.  X.)  When  the  chicken  is  half  done, 
take  the  dough,  which  should  be  light  for  the  third  time,  including 
the  sponge,  to  the  paste  board.  Cover  the  board  with  plenty  of  flour, 
roll  out  the  dough  with  the  pin,  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut 
it  in  cakes  about  three  inches  square ;  separate  them  from  each  other 
so  that  they  will  not  run  together  to  form  one  mass  in  rising,  and  let 
them  remain  in  a  warm  place  until  wanted.  When  the  chicken  is 
nearly  tender,  season  the  broth,  add  butter,  and  thicken  a  little  with 
flour  stirred  first  in  cold  water ;  after  a  few  moments  skim  out  all  the 
chicken  into  another  kettle,  and  all  the  gravy  except  sufficient  to 
reach  one  inch  above  the  place  where  the  fire  comes  in  contact  with 
the  pot.  Turn  a  plate  of  the  right  size  to  fit  the  pot  below  the  rim 
which  sets  on  the  stove  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  put  in  the  biscuit 
dough  when  very  light,  while  the  water  boils,  piece  by  piece,  as 
quickly  as  possible,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  cakes  touch  each  other 
when  first  dropped  in ;  (the  biscuit  will  not  adhere  if  they  are  slightly 
scalded  before  they  come  in  contact ;)  as  soon  as  the  dough  is  in  the 
pot,  close  the  cover  tightly  and  boil  gently,  without  crowding  the  fire, 
thirty  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  dish ;  do  not  lift  the  cover 
unless  you  think  it  is  in  danger  of  scorching  from  the  evaporation  of 
the  gravy.  Keep  the  chicken  and  gravy  simmering  on  the  stove 
until  the  crust  is  boiled.  If  the  crust  should  become  light  too  soon 
for  the  dinner  hour,  knead  it  thoroughly  and  keep  it  cool  until  time 
to  make  into  cakes.  If  pot-pie  is  made  in  this  manner  it  will  never 
be  heavy. 

To  Fry  Chickens  or  other  Birds. — Joint  a  chicken ;  melt  in  a 
spider  sweet  bu  ter,  rub  the  fowl  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  as 
slowly  as  possible  without  either  drying  or  burning  the  fowl. 

Cold  Fowl. — Cold  fowls  are  always  palatable,  cold  or  warmed  over. 

Fricassee  of  Fowls  Brown. — Boil  as  for  pot-pie.  Then  fry 
slowly  in  butter  until  browned,  toast  bread,  lay  it  on  the  platter  un- 


116 

der  the  chicken.  Pour  a  little  of  the  broth  in  the  spider  with  the 
browned  butter,  thicken  with  flour,  season  to  suit,  and  pour  it  over 
the  chicken ;  or,  if  you  want  it  very  nice,  add  the  butter  for  the  gravy 
to  the  butter  in  which  the  chicken  was  browned,  dredge  with  flour, 
add  salt  and  pepper,  brown  well,  and,  lastly,  add  the  chicken  broth. 

White  Fricassee  of  Chicken. — All  the  difference  there  is  from 
the  above  is,  that  the  chicken  is  not  browned ;  the  gravy  is  thickened 
with  flour  and  is  left  white.    It  is  the  poorest  manner  of  cooking  fowls. 


CHAPTER    VII. 

VEGETABLES-PKESEKVATION,  HEKMETIOALLT   SEALING,  AND 
COOKING. 

Artichokes. — Artichokes  are  first  boiled  till  tender,  in  clear  water 
with  a  little  salt,  and  served  with  drawn  butter,  or  browned  after 
boiling  in  butter,  and  served  with  brown  butter  gravy. 

Asparagus. — Use  it  as  soon  as  possible  after  cutting ;  there  are 
several  ways  of  cooking  this,  each  of  which  is  good.  Discard  all  not 
brittle  enough  to  break  easily,  tie  it  in  small  bunches,  and  boil  it  in 
very  little  water,  slightly  salted,  until  tender ;  take  off  the  strings,  put  it 
in  a  covered  dish,  add  butter  to  the  water  sufficient  to  make  a  rich 
gravy,  and  thicken  it  with  very  little  flour,  and  pour  the  gravy  over 
the  asparagus ;  be  careful  to  lay  the  heads  all  one  way. 

Asparagus  Soup. — Cut  the  asparagus  in  pieces  a  half-inch  long, 
boil  in  water  with  a  little  salt,  and  add  rich  sweet  cream  to  thicken 
the  soup. 

Asparagus  Toast. — Tie  the  stalks  in  small  bunches,  boil  them  in 
rery  little  salted  water  until  tender ;  toast  as  many  slices  of  bread  as 
there  are  bunches  of  asparagus,  butter  them  while  hot,  lay  a  bunch 
on  each  slice  of  toast,  add  a  little  butter  to  the  water,  and  pour  it  over 
the  whole. 

Asparagus  Greens. — Boil  the  stalks  with  a  slice  of  salt  pork,  in 
barely  water  enough  to  cover  them,  so  that,  when  tender,  there  will 
be  scarcely  any  left.  Drain  it  and  serve  with  vinegar ;  this  is  an  ex- 
cellent green,  but  it  will  be  found  too  expensive,  unless  grown  by  the 
consumer. 


VEGETABLES.  117 

To  Heemetioallt  Seal  Aspaeagus  in  Cans. — Directions  from 
the  French. — First  dip  the  asparagus  into  water  while  bottling,  and 
immediately  after  into  cold  water.  Pack  the  stalks  in  the  jars  or  cans 
head  down,  without  water  or  seasoning,  seal  tightly,  and  let  them  re- 
main in  the  bath  until  the  water  boils.  {See  Watee  Bath  foe  put- 
ting up  Feuits.)  The  writer  has  no  personal  experience  in  regard  to 
this  rule.  It  may  prove  a  good  recipe.  If  the  can  is  drawn  in  at  the 
ends,  it  is  probably  perfect,  though  not  positively  certain.  Cans 
often  burst  after  laying  months  apparently  perfect.  Mark  each  can 
with  Nitrate  of  Silver.     {See  Hermetic  a  tj.y-sealed  Can.) 

To  Boil  Beets. — Beets  must  not  be  cut  before  boiling,  as  the  juice 
will  escape,  and  the  sweetness  of  the  vegetable  be  lost.  Select  small- 
sized  smooth  roots,  wash  them  nicely,  and  boil  them  in  clear  water  un- 
til tender.  When  sufficiently  cooked,  skim  them  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  and  slip  off  the  outside  ;  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  and  while  hot 
season  with  butter,  salt,  a  little  pepper  and  sharp  vinegar,  and  serve 
hot.  They  can  be  sliced  lengthwise,  and  put  ft.  strong  vinegar  to  use 
cold.     Beets  soon  kill  vinegar ;  it  should,  therefore,  be  very  strong. 

Beet  Geeens. — Young  beets  the  size  of  a  pencil,  make,  with  the 
exception  of  asparagus,  the  best  greens ;  the  leaves  must  be  examined 
for  fear  of  insects,  and  well  washed ;  boil  with  salt  pork,  beef,  or  ham ; 
the  latter  is  preferable  ;  drain  free  from  water,  and  serve  with  vinegar. 
They  may  be  boiled  without  pork,  and  buttered. 

Boiled  Beans. — Soak  over  night  any  small  white  beans  in  soft 
water,  put  them  in  a  strong  bag,  leaving  room  to  swell ;  let  them  boil 
in  a  potful  of  water,  until  done ;  hang  them  up  to  let  all  the  water 
drain  off,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  to  the  taste. 

Stewed  Beans. — Soak  them  over  night  in  soft  water ;  put  them, 
after  breakfast,  in  enough  water  to  cover  them ;  when  it  boils,  skim 
out  the  beans,  empty  the  water,  and  put  them  on  again ;  proceed  as 
before ;  and  in  the  next  water,  parboil  a  piece  of  salt  pork,  accord- 
ing to  the  quantity  of  beans,  say  a  pound  to  one  quart  of  beans ;  when 
this  water  has  boiled  ten  minutes,  change  it  again,  and  boil  the  pork 
and  beans  together  until  tender ;  the  water  should  all  be  evaporated 
before  dishing  the  beans. 

Baked  Beans. — These  are  prepared  as  above,  and  then  set  in  the 
oven  in  a  dripping-pan,  to  brown.  Most  persons  lay  the  pork  in  the 
middle  of  the  beans  to  crisp ;  but  a  better  plan  is  to  bake  it  on  a 
separate  dish.    The  pork  should  be  nicely  gashed  before  baking. 


118 

Dried  Lima  Beans. — Soak  in  soft  water  over  night,  if  wanted  by 
noon ;  but  if  for  a  late  dinner,  only  from  early  morning ;  drain  off 
the  soft  water,  and  boil  gently,  without  bursting,  in  water  in  which 
a  little  salt  has  been  dissolved ;  when  tender,  drain  them,  and  stew 
gently  in  sweet  butter  or  cream,  without  scorching. 

Windsor  Beans. — When  young,  boil  until  tender,  and  serve  with 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  parsley  if  relished.  When  old,  boil 
until  the  outside  skin  slips  off,  after  which  boil  until  tender ;  mash 
fine,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

String  Beans. — Gather  them  while  young  enough  to  break  crispy ; 
break  off  both  ends,  and  string  them ;  break  in  halves,  and  boil  in 
water  with  a  little  salt,  until  tender ;  drain  free  from  water,  and  season 
with  butter. 

To  Preserve  String  Beans  for  Winter. — Gather  them  when  just 
right  for  cooking,  wask  clean,  and  fill  the  can  with  beans  without 
crowding;  fill  nearly  full  with  soft  water,  seal  the  can,  and  cook  until 
you  are  sure  the  beans  are  well  done ;  then  seal  the  small  hole  as 
directed  for  can  fruit.  It  is,  however,  a  very  difficult  matter  to  put 
these  up,  as  experience  has  fully  shown  to  the  writer,  yet  she  has 
succeeded,  though  sometimes  failing. 

Broccoli. — Soak  an  hour  in  salt  water,  then  boil  in  a  little  water 
until  half  done,  after  which,  add  as  much  milk  as  water,  and  finish 
cooking ;  cut  it  up,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  or  serve 
whole  with  vinegar. 

Early  York  Cabbage. — Early  York  is  the  best  of  all  cabbages ;  it 
can  be  cooked  like  Broccoli,  if  desired,  and  is  nearly  as  good. 

Boiled  Cabbage. — Examine  each  leaf  to  see  there  are  no  insects, 
and  boil  in  clear  water  without  salt  until  tender ;  drain  off  all  the 
water,  put  it  in  a  deep  dish,  and  With  a  round  pointed  knife  chop  it  in 
small  pieces ;  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  a  trifle  of  pepper. 

Cabbage  Boiled  with  Meat. — Select  for  boiling,  small  white  cab- 
bages with  firm  heads ;  cut  the  heads  in  quarters,  and  examine  care- 
fully that  there  is  no  vermin  lodged  in  them,  lay  them  for  an  hour  in 
salted  water  to  draw  out  any  that  may  have  escaped  observation ; 
skim  the  fat  from  the  pot,  and  put  in  the  cabbage  while  the  water 
boils ;  drain  well  before  serving ;  leave  it  as  whole  as  possible.   Should 


VEGETABLES.  119 

the  meat  be  wanted  cold,  take  some  of  the  liquor  from  the  pot  to  boil 
the  cabbage,  filling  the  pot  with  boiling  water,  as  the  cabbage  imparts 
a  disagreeable  flavor  to  meat  when  cold. 

Hot  Slaw. — Cut  cabbage  in  fine  shreds,  boil  in  clear  water  until 
perfectly  tender,  allowing  so  little,  that  when  it  is  cooked  sufficiently 
there  will  be  scarcely  none  left  in  the  spider ;  just  before  dishing,  add 
to  a  common  sized  spiderful,  a  teacup  of  sharp  vinegar,  a  piece  of 
butter  half  the  size  of  a  common  hen's  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  a  dust  of 
pepper ;  the  latter  can  be  added  at  the  table  if  desired.  Many  persons 
dislike  pepper,  therefore  as  little  as  will  answer  had  better  generally 
be  used  in  all  cookery.    Dish  in  extra  plates  at  the  table. 

Cold  Slaw. — Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine,  dissolve  in  a  cup  of 
vinegar  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  the  same  of  salt,  add  a  little  pepper ; 
pour  it  over  the  cabbage,  and  add  another  half  cup  of  vinegar. 

Chicken  Salad. — Chicken  salad  can  be  made  with  cabbage  with- 
out celery ;  if  the  flavor  of  celery  is  desired,  add  extract  to  the  taste. 
(See  Celeey.) 

Cauliflower. — Soak  the  head  two  hours  in  salt  water,  and  cook 
until  tender  in  milk  and  water ;  drain,  and  serve  whole  with  drawn 
butter ;  this  makes  the  best  appearance,  but  it  will  be  found  to  suit 
the  taste  better  cut  up  and  seasoned  richly  with  butter  and  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.    In  either  case  it  must  be  well  drained. 

Careots. — Boil  and  season  as  directed  in  boiled  beets,  or  boil  and 
serve  with  drawn  butter.  They  can  also  be  jammed,  when  they  some- 
what resemble  squash.  They  are  used  in  soups  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Stewed,  and  treated  as  pumpkins,  they  make  an  excellent  pie,  hardly 
discernible  from  pumpkin. 

Celery. — Dress  it  nicely,  leaving  on  the  green  stems.  It  is  also 
used  in  compounding  salads. 

Chicken  Salad,  No.  1. — Boil,  until  tender,  two  nice  fowls ;  taka 
the  best  part  of  a  small  cabbage,  discarding  all  the  pith  or  green,  chop 
it  finely — there  should  be  less  than  a  quart  when  chopped ;  chop  well 
blanched  celery  free  from  rust,  say  four  large  bunches;  the  celery 
should  not  be  quite  as  fine  as  the  cabbage  ;  there  should  be  about  half 
as  much  celery  as  cabbage ;  when  more  is  used,  diminish  the  quantity  of 
cabbage ;  pick  the  fowls  in  small  pieces  of  a  half-inch  eaofe,  leaving 
out  the  black  meat  or  not,  as  desired ;  it  looks  better  out ;  mix  the 


120 


HOUSEKEEPER  $  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 


chicken,  cabbage,  and  celery  together.  Boil  four  eggs  one  hour. 
(See  Boiled  Eggs.)  Take  out  the  yolks,  and  work  them  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  they  form  a  paste.  If  you  can  procure  the  best  of  sweet 
oil  fresh,  take  half  a  gill — if  not,  a  gill  of  melted  butter ;  mix  a  little  at 
a  time  with  the  egg  until  all  is  mixed,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  superior 
black  pepper,  sifted  through  a  fine  bolting  cloth  sieve,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard,  (see  Mustard,)  stir  this  in  the  paste,  then 
add  a  teacup  of  strong  vinegar,  half  as  much  grated  horseradish,  and 
a  table-spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  the  sauce  into  the  cabbage,  etc.,  a  half- 
hour  before  serving.  It  is  always  well  to  mix  a  little  before  for  tast- 
ing; as  there  is  such  a  difference  in  the  strength  of  spices  and  vin- 
egar, there  may  need  some  alteration  to  suit  the  taste. 

Ctteled  Ceess. — Wash  clean,  and  lay  on  a  dish ;  let  each  season 
to  suit  themselves,  at  table. 

Corn. — The  sweet  is  the  most  desirable  variety  of  corn  for  the 
table,  when  used  in  the  green  state.  It  should  be  gathered  when 
quite  young,  before  it  begins  to  glaze,  and  be  cooked  soon  after,  as 
it  not  only  loses  flavor  but  becomes  unhealthy  by  long  keeping. 
Boil  only  long  enough  to  cook  through ;  every  moment's  exposure  to 
heat  after  this  is  accomplished  only  hardens  it,  besides  extracting  its 
sweetness.  To  boil  on  the  cob,  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  throw  the 
corn,  after  husking  and  silking,  into  boiling  water  for  about  fifteen 
minutes,  allowing  five  for  the  cooling  of  the  water  and  ten  for  boiling 
the  corn. 

Corn  :  an  Excellent  Method. — Cut  the  corn  from  the  cobs, 
have  ready  just  enough  water  to  cover  the  corn,  throw  in  the  cobs  and 
let  them  boil  until  within  fifteen  minutes  of  the  time  to  serve  dinner. 
Eemove  the  cobs,  and  stir  in  the  corn ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  which 
will  take  about  five  minutes.  After  it  has  boiled  for  ten  minutes, 
add  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  if  relished. 

Corn,  No.  2. — Proceed  as  above.  When  the  corn  is  ready  to 
dish,  stir  into  a  quart  of  corn  a  pint  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  that  is  not 
old  enough  to  curdle,  add  a  little  salt  but  no  pepper. 

Corn,  No.  3. — Cook  corn  in  its  own  juice  slowly  for  fear  of 
burning.  The  best  method  to  do  this  is  to  set  the  pan  or  kettle  con- 
taining it  over  steam.  It  will  take  a  half-hour  to  cook,  and  must  be 
kept  tightly  covered  while  steaming ;  this  is  superior  to  the  others, 


VEGETABLES.  121 

but  takes  more  time ;  season  with  fresh  butter  or  cream ;  if  the  latter, 
add  salt. 

Geeen  Coen  Cakes. — Grate  the  corn ;  make  a  rich  batter  with 
cream,  or  according  to  directions  given  for  batter  cakes.  Use  just 
enough  of  the  batter  to  hold  the  corn  together,  and  lay  the  cakes 
on  the  griddle,  as  you  would  a  common  griddle-cake;  serve  with 
butter. 

Coen  Muffins. — Prepare  as  above,  baking  the  muffins  by  setting 
the  pan  containing  the  rings  in  the  oven ;  serve  with  butter. 

Corn  Oystees. — Grate  the  corn ;  to  every  pint  take  three  well 
beaten  eggs,  sufficient  flour  to  make  the  corn  hold  together  in  the 
shape  of  fried  oysters.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  brown  on  a 
griddle  until  cooked  through;  serve  with  butter.  They  must  be 
quite  flat,  or  they  will  not  get  thoroughly  cooked. 

Succotash,  oe  Coen  and  Beans. — If  old  beans  are  used,  they 
must  be  soaked  over  night,  and  parboiled  in  two  waters  before 
putting  in  the  pork.  {See  Stewed  Beans.)  The  corn  should  be 
added  to  the  beans  and  pork  about  fifteen  minutes  before  the 
hour  for  serving  the  dinner.  It  is  well  to  boil  the  cobs  with  the 
beans  and  pork  in  the  last  water.  Eemove  them  before  adding  the 
corn.  For  using  beans  not  fully  ripe,  one  change  of  water  is  suffi- 
cient;  the  pork  can  be  parboiled  at  the  same  time.  Beans  for  succotash 
should  remain  whole ;  care  must  be  taken  that  they  boil  gently,  so  as 
not  to  break  them.  Considerable  water  is  generally  used  in  boiling 
the  beans,  that  no  more  need  be  added  when  the  corn  is  put  in  ;  most 
persons  like  considerable  soup  in  this  dish.  Families  can  be  governed 
by  taste  in  this.  Dish  the  corn  and  beans  in  a  deep  dish  with 
the  broth,  and  season  with  butter  and  a  very  little  salt;  use  no 
pepper ;  if  any  person  desires  it,  it  is  easily  added.  Serve  the  pork 
on  a  platter,  after  taking  off  the  skin  and  dotting  it  with  pepper, 
by  dipping  the  little  finger  in  ground  pepper  and  pressing  it  on  the 
pork. 

To  Peepaee  Deied  Coen  foe  Succotash.— Look  it  over  carefully 
to  see  there  are  no  vermin  or  sour  corn  among  it.  Throw  it  in 
cold  water,  and  stir  it  up ;  pour  off  the  water,  and  add  more,  and  let 
it  remain  soaking  until  within  ten  minutes  of  the  dinner  hour ;  then 
add  it  to  the  beans  and  pork,  with  the  water  in  which  it  was  soaked. 
6 


122 

If  boiled  it  will  become  very  hard ;  as  it  has  been  cooked  before  dry- 
ing, it  only  wants  heating  through.  Add  a  teaspoonfnl  of  loaf  sugar 
to  a  tureenful  of  succotash,  to  give  it  as  much  sweetness  as  green 
corn.  About  one-quarter  beans  and  three-quarters  corn  is  a  good 
proportion  for  this  dish,  with  half  a  pound  of  pork  to  a  pint  of  dried, 
or  a  quart  of  green  corn. 

Dried  Corn. — Soak  as  above  one  hour  before  dinner,  set  the  pan 
over  steam,  and  let  it  simmer  in  the  same  water  soaked  in,  which 
should  be  only  just  sufficient  to  cover  it;  let  it  become  boiling  hot 
by  setting  it  on  the  stove  three  minutes  before  dishing ;  season  with 
butter,  salt,  no  pepper,  and  a  very  little  sugar.  Cream  can  be  added 
if  relished. 

Hermetically-sealed  Corn. — This  is  extremely  difficult  to  put 
up ;  it  cannot  be  done  unless  the  corn  is  perfectly  fresh,  arid  even 
then  it  often  fails.  It  is  necessary  to  boil  it,  to  destroy  its  fermenting 
properties.  Split  the  kernels,  cut  it  from  the  cob,  add  water,  and 
boil  half  an  hour  *  then  fill  the  cans  within  one  inch  of  the  top  ; 
solder  on  the  caps  while  hot ;  test  the  cans  {see  Testing  Cans)  ;  make 
a  6mall  hole  in  the  top  with  an  awl ;  place  them  in  the  bath,  and  let 
the  cans  boil  three-fourths  of  an  hour ;  and  stop  the  hole  with  solder 
while  in  the  bath.  If  perfect,  the  cans  will  be  drawn  in  at  the 
end ;  if  swollen,  they  cannot  be  saved.  The  same  may  be  said  of 
peas,  asparagus,  beans,  and  pumpkin.  All  cans  should  be  marked. 
As  convenient  a  method  as  any  is  to  write  with  a  sharp-pointed 
stick  dipped  in  rain  water  in  which  a  little  nitrate  of  silver  is  dis- 
solved. 

To  Dry  Sweet  Corn  for  Winter  Use. — Boil,  in  the  after  pait  of 
the  day,  until  it  is  heated  through,  young  sweet  corn  freshly  gathered, 
spread  it  thinly  in  some  convenient  place  until  morning.  As  soon  as 
possible,  the  next  morning,  cut  it  from  the  cobs,  and  spread  it  thinly 
in  the  sun  to  dry.  If  the  day  is  favorable,  it  will  dry  so  as  to  be  out 
of  danger  of  souring  in  one  day ;  if  so,  take  in  the  corn  before  the 
dew  falls,  aud  spread  it  on  a  table  overnight.  If,  on  the  contrary,  it 
has  dried  but  little  and  there  is  no  danger  of  rain,  it  will  be  less 
likely  to  sour  if  left  spread  in  the  air  all  night,  than  if  spread  in  a 
close  room.  It  will  take  three  hot,  sunny  days  to  dry  perfectly,  when 
it  must  be  put  in  a  dry,  tin  pan,  and  heated  very  hot  over  steam,  to 
destroy  any  insects'  eggs  which  may  have  been  laid  in  it.  Hang  it 
away,  out  of  the  reach  of  mice,  in  strong  paper  bags;    there  is 


VEGETABLES.  123 

almost  as  much  danger  of  vermin  in  corn  as  in  fruit.  There  is  no 
corn  fit  to  dry  but  the  old  sweet  corn,  the  Stowell  is  too  hard  when 
dry ;  we  speak  from  experience.  There  is  an  early  corn  perfectly 
white  which  is  often  dried  and  passed  on  people  as  sweet  corn. 
It  is  so  much  more  prolific,  that  growers  prefer  to  raise  it.  It  can 
be  told  from  sweet  corn  by  chewing.  The  sweet  resembles  the  taste 
of  chestnuts,  is  soft  and  easily  chewed,  while  the  other  is  hard  and 
not  very  sweet. 

Cucumbers. — Select  half-grown  cucumbers,  peel,  and  lay  them  in 
cold  water ;  just  before  they  are  wanted,  slice  them  thinly,  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar. 

To  Fey  Cucumbers. — These  resemble  egg  plant,  though  not  as 
good.  Lay  them  in  salt,  after  they  are  sliced,  fifteen  minutes,  and 
fry  in  pork  fat  or  butter.     {See  Pickles  and  Catsup.) 

To  Cook  Egg  Plant,  No.  1. — Select  long  purple  if  possible ;  the 
next  best  is  the  round  kind  with  prickles  on  the  stem.  Peel  and  slice 
them,  spread  salt  on  each  separate  piece,  and  lay  them  in  a  colander 
to  drain ;  let  them  lie  one  hour,  parboil,  and  fry  them,  until  thor- 
oughly cooked,  in  pork  fat  or  butter  ;  egg  plants,  unless  well  cooked, 
are  insipid,  and  even  disgusting ;  they  must  be  cooked  through  and 
browned. 

To  Cook  Egg  Plant,  No.  2. — Parboil,  after  laying  in  salt,  roll 
in  flour,  and  fry  until  thoroughly  cooked. 

To  Cook  Egg  Plant,  No.  3. — Parboil  until  tender,  dip  in  nice 
butter  and  fry  brown. 

To  Cook  Egg  Plant,  No.  4. — Omit  the  laying  in  salt,  boil  in 
water  until  perfectly  tender,  make  a  batter,  and  beat  the  plant  in  it ; 
there  must  be  but  little  batter,  just  enough  to  hold  the  egg  plant 
together ;  the  cakes  should  be  rather  salt,  but  after  the  first  cake  is 
baked,  if  not  sufficiently  seasoned,  more  can  be  added ;  bake  on  a 
griddle.  These  are  all  excellent  methods  for  cooking  this  vegetable, 
and  make  variety;  there  is  no  vegetable  as  poor  as  the  egg  plant 
when  half  cooked. 

Baked  Egg  Plant. — Leave  on  the  skin,  take  out  the  seeds,  fill 
with  dressing  prepared  as  for  a  turkey,  sew  in  the  piece  taken  out, 
and  bake  until  thoroughly  cooked. 


124  HOUSEKEEPERS  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 

Lettuce,  Dutch  Method. — Heat  quite  hot  pork  fat  or  butter, 
add  a  little  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  fry  the  tender  leaves  of 
lettuce  until  entirely  wilted. 

To  Dkess  Salads  foe  Dinnee. — Look  over,  carefully,  the  tender 
half-blanched  leaves  of  head  lettuce,  cut  them  slightly;  make  a 
dressing  of  the  yolk  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  mixed  mustard,  (see  Mixing 
Mustaed,)  black  pepper,  butter,  and  vinegar.  Boil  two  or  three 
eggs  more  than  is  needed  for  the  sauce  ;  slice  the  whites  and 
yolks  together,  lay  them  on  the  dish,  and  pour  over  the  whole  the 
sauce. 

Lettuce,  No.  2. — Cut  the  lettuce  and  eggs  fine,  and  make  a  dress- 
ing of  melted  butter,  hot  vinegar,  mustard,  and  pepper,  and  pour 
over  the  whole. 

To  Seeve  in  Heads. — Look  each  leaf  carefully  over  inside  and 
out,  to  see  that  no  vermin  are  lodged  in  the  creases  of  the  leaves ;  lay 
them  on  a  dish,  and  ornament  it  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  or 
not,  as  suits  the  fancy.  Or  lay  it  on  a  platter,  and  lay  around  the 
edge  a  wreath  of  young  peppergrass.  Some  use  sugar  and  vinegar 
only,  on  lettuce.  When  each  seasons  to  suit  themselves,  sugar  should 
be  near  the  salad,  as  well  as  the  caster. 

Mustaed  Geeens. — Mustard,  dock,  and  dandelion,  when  very 
young,  all  make  excellent  greens,  boiled  with  a  ham  bone. 

Okea. — This  is  much  used  as  a  thickening  for  soups,  also  for 
stews ;  the  pods  must  be  gathered  when  young  and  tender.  It  is 
dried  by  cutting  in  thin  slices,  and  exposing  it  to  a  gentle  heat,  or 
hung  in  the  sun,  in  the  same  manner  as  peaches  and  apples  on 
strings. 

Okea  oe  Gumbo  Soup. — Boil  a  chicken  and  a  slice  of  ham  in 
sufficient  water  to  make  a  tureen  of  soup.  When  the  fowl  is  thor- 
oughly done,  take  it  with  the  ham  from  the  broth.  Flavor  the  soup 
with  onions,  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs ;  make  a  paste  with  eggs 
and  flour,  roll  it  as  thin  as  wafers,  dry  a  little,  then  roll  it  as  tightly 
as  possible,  and  slice  in  thin  shreds ;  put  in  the  soup  a  teacupful  of 
this,  a  teacupful  of  chopped  okra,  and  a  pint  of  oysters. 

Stewed  Okea. — Chop  finely  two  quarts  of  okra  pods,  stew  them 
in  a  very  little  water  until  cooked  through  ;  season  with  butter,  pep- 
per, and  salt,    The  taste  for  this  vegetable  is  acquired  by  habit ;  few 


VEGETABLES. 


125 


relish,  when  first  eating  it.  The  French  use  it  more  than  Americans, 
although  Southerners  make  much  use  of  it  in  thickening  soups.  The 
seeds  are  said  to  make  passible  coffee. 

Onions. — The  red  onion  is  thought  much  sweeter  than  the  white 
in  its  raw  state,  but  the  latter  is  preferred  for  boiling  on  account  of 
its  beauty. 

Boiled  Onions. — Take  the  outside  skin  from  white  onions  as  uni- 
form in  size  as  possible,  lay  them  in  cold  salt  and  water  one  hour^ 
boil  them  in  milk  and  water  until  thoroughly  tender  ;  lay  them  in  a 
deep  dish,  and  pour  over  them  melted  butter. 

Fried  Onions. — Some  think  this  a  great  dish.  Take  onions,  be- 
fore they  commence  growing,  that  the  natural  sweetness  of  the  vege- 
table may  not  be  destroyed ;  peel,  slice  thin,  and  fry  them  brown 
in  hot  pork  fat.  If  this  dish  is  cooked,  it  should  be  done  on  a  coal 
furnace,  at  a  little  distance  from  the  house.  It  is  almost  impossible, 
for  days,  to  remove  the  unpleasant  odor  arising  from  them.  The 
best  deodorizer  to  use  in  the  kitchen  is  a  little  ground  coffee  burned 
on  the  stove,  the  smoke  being  allowed  to  penetrate  to  other  parts  of 
the  house.  Cabbage  and  turnips  are  almost  as  unpleasant  as  onions ; 
a  teaspoonful  of  cheap  coffee  would  be  well  used  in  cleansing  the 
house  from  any  disagreeable  odor. 

Parsley. — The  curled  is  the  most  beautiful,  and  could  be  kept  in 
a  growing  state  all  winter  with  slight  protection.  It  is  used  as  sea- 
soning to  different  soups  and  meats,  and  also  to  ornament  different 
dishes  at  table.  It  can  be  dried  as  other  herbs,  and  used  pulverized 
in  soups,  broths,  etc. 

Plain  Parsnips. — The  sugar  or  hallow  crown  is  the  sweetest  for 
table  use.  It  is  generally  used  in  the  winter  and  spring,  but  is  eat- 
able as  soon  as  sufficiently  grown.  Boil  them  until  tender  in  water  in 
which  a  little  salt  has  been  thrown,  split  them,  and  serve  with  drawn 
butter ;  or,  if  boiled  with  corned  beef  or  pork,  serve  whole  without 
dressing. 

Broiled  Parsnip. — After  they  are  boiled  tender,  let  them  become 
perfectly  cold ;  slice  thin  lengthwise,  and  broil  until  nicely  browned ; 
spread  them  with  butter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  To  be 
served  with  roast,  broiled,  or  fried  meats. 


126  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Fried  Parsnips. — Boil  and  slice  thinly,  have  ready  hot  pork  fat, 
put  them  in,  and  brown  without  burning.     Serve  with  fried  meats. 

Parsnip  Fritters.— Boil  the  parsnips  in  salted  water  so  as  to 
flavor  them  through,  make  a  light  batter,  cut  them  round,  and  dip 
them  in  the  batter.  Have  ready  hot  lard,  take  them  up  with  a  table- 
spoon, and  drop  them  in  while  the  lard  is  boiling ;  when  they  rise  to 
the  surface  turn  them ;  when  browned  on  both  sides,  take  them  out ; 
let  them  drain,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  to  keep  hot.  Serve  with 
broiled,  fried,  or  roast  meats  or  fowls. 

Parsnip  Cutlet. — Slice  boiled  parsnips  lengthwise,  and  brown 
them  in  lard,  after  rubbing  them  with  pepper  and  salt.  When 
browned  on  both  sides,  dip  one  side  in  batter  made  of  egg  and  flour ; 
let  them  only  brown,  not  burn ;  then  dip  the  other  side,  and  brown  in 
the  same  manner ;  spread  over  them  a  little  butter,  or  not,  as  desired. 
Serve  with  roasts,  etc. 

Fricassee  Parsnips. — Out  the  parsnips  in  chunks  about  two  inches 
square,  or  as  near  square  as  convenient,  boil  until  tender  in  salted 
water,  skim  them  out,  and  brown  gently  in  butter ;  when  nearly  brown, 
dust  over  them  some  flour,  and  let  it  brown,  but  not  burn.  Take 
them  from  the  spider,  and  add  to  the  butter  a  little  of  the  water  in 
which  they  were  boiled ;  if  there  is  not  sufficient  butter  in  the  spider 
to  form  a  gravy,  add  more ;  if  not  as  thick  as  brown  gravies  usually 
are,  add  a  little  flour  mixed,  free  from  lumps,  in  a  very  little  of  the 
water  from  the  parsnips,  stir  it  in,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  them. 

Peas. — These  should  be  gathered  young  and  used  immediately. 
It  injures  them  to  lie  an  hour.  If  the  pods  are  sandy,  wash  and  dry 
them  before  shelling,  as  they  should  never  be  washed  after  being 
shelled.  There  is  a  peculiar  sweetness  lost  by  washing  or  long  keep- 
ing which  is  the  beauty  of  the  pea.  June  peas  are  poor  things,  hardly 
worth  shelling  if  presented.  Marrowfats  are  all  good,  some  better 
than  others.  (See  Kitchen  Garden.)  Have  ready  a  pot  perfectly 
clean,  and  free  from  the  peculiar  odor  of  other  vegetables.  Put  the 
peas  in  the  pot  with  enough  water  to  cover  them,  throw  in  a  little  salt, 
and  cover  tight.  "Watch  them  that  they  do  not  boil  dry,  they  will 
cook  in  fifteen  minutes  if  the  peas  are  in  a  right  state.  Take  out  two 
or  three  table-spoonfuls  of  the  peas,  mash  them  fine,  and  stir  them 
in  the  pot.  Dish  in  a  deep  covered  dish,  and  season  with  butter. 
Never  put  pepper  in  peas ;  it  is  easily  added  at  table,  if  desired. 


VEGETABLES.  127 

Peas  Steamed. — Put  the  peas  in  a  tin  pail,  or  some  other  article 
with  a  tight  cover,  without  water.  To  every  quart  put  a  piece  of 
butter  as  large  as  a  quarter  of  a  common-sized  hen's  egg  ;  set  it  in  boil- 
ing water  until  the  peas  are  cooked  tender.  This  is  said  to  be  su-. 
perior  to  any  other  mode,  as  they  retain  their  whole  flavor.  Peas 
are  generally  served  when  lamb  is  cooked,  if  they  are  to  be  had  ;  yet 
they  are  a  proper  dish  with  all  roast,  broiled,  or  fried  meats,  and 
with  fowls  in  any  form. 

Pea  Soup. — Boil  the  peas  until  tender  in  sufficient  water  for  the 
soup,  then  mash  one-third  of  them,  and  stir  them  in  the  broth  ;  season 
with  butter  aud  salt.  Some  use  sweet  herbs  with  peas,  but  we  think 
the  flavor  of  each  vegetable  should  be  retained  separately,  if  possible. 
One  reason  why  there  is  such  sameness  at  public  tables  is,  that  all 
kinds  of  meats  and  vegetables  are  seasoned  with  the  same  herbs  and 
spices. 

Deled  Peas. — These  must  be  soaked  until  soft,  and  then  cooked 
as  other  peas ;  a  very  little  sugar  added  will  give  them  more  of  the 
natural  flavor  of  green  peas. 

Heemetically-sealed  Geeen  Peas. — The  peas  must  be  fresh 
picked,  and  shelled  as  directed ;  boil  them  until  tender,  and  fill  each 
can  nearly  full  without  crowding ;  while  hot  add  a  very  little  hot  water, 
and  seal  on  the  caps.  Place  them  in  the  water  bath  while  hot  until 
they  have  become  boiling  hot,  make  a  small  hole,  boil  half  an  hour, 
and  then  solder  the  small  aperture.  This  is  a  very  difficult  thing  to 
manage ;  corn,  peas,  and  asparagus  are  the  most  troublesome  of  all 
vegetables  to  preserve  in  this  manner,  as  they  sour  almost  while  heat- 
ing. Still  it  is  accomplished,  though  many  cans  burst  and  are  lost. 
Mark  all  cans,  or  you  will  be  unable  to  designate  them.  If  the  ends 
of  the  cans  remain  drawn,  it  is  supposed  they  are  perfect.  (See 
Testing  Cans  in  Boiling  Watee,  Part  Y.,  Chapter  VI.) 

Eaelt  Potatoes,  befoee  they  aee  Pipe. — When  fresh  from  the 
ground,  never  use  a  knife,  but  rub  the  skin  off  with  the  hand.  Put 
them  in  hot  water  with  a  little  salt,  take  them  up  as  soon  as  thorough- 
ly cooked,  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and  spread  butter  over  them  so 
as  to  form  a  gravy. 

To  Boil  Ripe  Potatoes. — "Wash  them  very  clean,  and  put  them 
in  cold  water,  let  them  boil  slowly  so  as  not  to  break ;  as  soon  as  a 


128 


fork  can  be  put  through  them,  take  them  up ;  peel  immediately,  and 
put  them  in  the  steamer  to  keep  hot.  Plain  boiled  potatoes  are 
proper  with  any  dish,  but  are  generally  served  with  roast  and  boiled 
meats. 

Mashed  Potatoes. — Peel  the  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  quarters. 
Throw  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  a  spoonful  of  salt ;  let  them  cook, 
not  too  fast,  but  evenly ;  when  tender,  drain  off  all  the  water,  and  let 
them  steam,  that  all  the  extra  moisture  may  pass  off.  Mash  them  in 
the  kettle,  working  them  into  a  light  paste  without  a  lump.  More  de- 
pends on  this  than  is  supposed  in  giving  mashed  potatoes  the  superior 
flavor  they  should  possess  to  be  prime.  After  they  are  worked  into 
a  paste,  which  must  be  done  quickly,  set  the  kettle  on  the  stove, 
working  them  all  the  time  to  prevent  burning.  Put  into  a  common 
covered  vegetable-dishful  a  piece  of  butter  half  as  large  as  an  egg} 
work  it  in  well,  then  add  a  half-cup  of  sweet  milk  well  worked  in ; 
taste,  and  if  not  sufficiently  salted,  add  more.  If  you  have  cream,  a 
teacupful  will  do  instead  of  butter  and  milk ;  indeed,  it  is  better. 
Dish  the  potatoes  in  a  covered  dish,  smooth  them  nicely  with  a 
knife  dipped  in  butter,  and  shake  a  trifle  of  .pepper  over  the  top. 
This  dish  can  be  varied  by  browning.  Beat  an  egg  and  cover  the 
top,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  a  few  moments.  Be  careful  not  to 
spill  the  egg  on  the  dish.    Serve  with  fowls  or  roasts. 

Feied  Potatoes  Ceisp. — Peel  and  wash  nice  white  potatoes,  slice 
them  very  thin,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  a  few  at  a  time.  Salt  them  as 
fast  as  fried,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  to  keep  hot  until  all  are  finished, 
when  they  should  be  put  in  a  covered  dish  for  the  table.  Serve  with 
fried  meats. 

Feied  Potatoes. — Peel  and  slice  thin  nice  potatoes.  Heat  in  a 
spider  a  lump  of  butter,  fill  the  spider  half  full  of  potatoes  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  on  the  top  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  pom* 
into  the  spider  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water.  Cover  them  tightly  and  let 
them  steam.  "When  they  have  browned  on  the  bottom  of  the  spider, 
stir  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  them,  and  so  continue  until  the  whole 
are  browned.  The  fire  must  be  rather  slow,  or  they  will  burn,  whicb 
would  spoil  the  whole. 

Beoiled  Potatoes. — Boil  potatoes  until  nearly  cooked  through. 
"When  cold,  slice  them  lengthwise  and  broil,  after  first  seasoning 
with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  them  with  butter.  Serve  with 
broiled  meats. 


VEGETABLES.  129 

Feioasseed  Potatoes. — Boil,  until  nearly  done,  with  a  piece  of 
salt  pork ;  when  cold,  cut  in  small  chunks,  and  brown  in  pork  fat  or 
butter. 

Hashed  Potatoes. — Peel  and  hash  fine  uncooked  potatoes.  To 
each  quart  allow  a  piece  of  butter,  half  as  large  as  a  common-sized 
egg ;  a  half  teacup  of  water,  a  half-teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dust  of  pep- 
per only,  if  any ;  it  can  be  added  much  easier  than  taken  out ;  put 
water,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  in  the  spider,  until  it  becomes  hot ; 
then  stir  in  the  potatoes,  let  them  cook  slowly  so  as  not  to  burn  ;  stir 
often,  but  do  not  mash  them ;  sweet  cream  can  be  added,  if  desired, 
when  taken  from  the  fire  ;  this  is  nice  for  breakfast. 

"Warmed  Potatoes. — Cut  in  small  chunks ;  season  with  butter,  salt, 
a  dust  of  pepper,  and  sweet  milk ;  let  them  become  heated  through. 
Cold  mashed  potatoes  can  be  made  into  small  round  cakes,  and 
browned  on  the  griddle.     These  are  both  excellent  breakfast  dishes. 

Baked  Potatoes. — Irish  and  sweet  potatoes  are  both  excellent 
baked.  The  sweet  requires  more  time  than  the  Irish,  which  will 
bake,  in  a  quick  oven,  in  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes.  They 
should  be  served  as  soon  as  thoroughly  cooked. 

Steamed  Potatoes. — Both  these  varieties  are  excellent  steamed. 
The  sweet  should  never  be  boiled.  Cold  sweet  potatoes  are  very  good 
fried,  but  in  no  way  are  they  as  delicious  as  baked  or  roasted  in  the 
ashes. 

Pumpkixs. — Some  persons  are  fond  of  stewed  pumpkins,  which 
takes  the  place  of  squash.  It  should  be  cooked  slowly,  with  as  little 
water  as  possible.  "When  finished,  there  should  no  water  or  juice  of 
the  pumpkin  be  seen ;  add  a  very  little  salt,  but  not  so  much  as  to  have 
it  perceptible.     (To  preserve  hermetically,  see  Squash.) 

Eadishes. — The  finest  are  the  long  scarlet,  or  early  scarlet  short 
top.  They  should  be  nicely  washed,  the  tip  ends  of  the  roots  pinched 
off,  and  about  one  inch  of  the  green  stalks  left  on.  Place  them  in 
deep  glass  bowls  or  goblets.  They  look  very  pretty  on  the  table, 
when  well  dressed.    All  wormy  ones  should  be  discarded. 

Khttbaes. — This  is  generally  used  for  pies  and  tarts,  though  some- 
times it  is  stewed  and  sweetened  for  sauce. 

'Rhubarb  Hermetically  Sealed. — This  is  very  easily  put  up. 
6* 


130  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Gather  the  tender  stalks,  cut  them  in  pieces  about  one  inch  long. 
Pack  in  bottles.  Fill  each  bottle  within  an  inch  of  the  cork ;  pour 
into  each  bottle  sufficient  water  to  fill  the  vacuum  between  the  pieces 
of  rhubarb ;  cork  and  wire  well.  Put  them  in  the  water  bath,  and  let 
them  boil  a  half  hour.     Then  seal  tightly,  as  directed  in  Cherries,  etc. 

Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oyster. — This  is  eatable  both  fall  and 
spring.  Scrape  the  roots  clean,  cut  them  in  small  pieces,  and  boil  in 
clear  water  until  tender.  Take  them  up  and  mash  fine,  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  make  in  small  cakes,  and  fry  like  oysters. 
These  are  called  salsify  patties. 

Salsify  Soup. — Prepare  the  salsify  as  above;  boil  until  tender, 
then  season  the  soup  as  for  oyster,  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Toast  bread,  lay  it  in  a  deep  dish,  slice  by  slice  ;  spread  the  salsify  on 
each  slice ;  when  the  whole  is  in,  pour  over  the  soup  and  serve 
immediately. 

Salsify  Cakes. — Boil,  until  tender,  the  scraped  salsify.  Then 
mash,  and  beat  it  up  in  light  batter ;  drop  the  cakes  on  the  griddle,  and 
fry  brown  ;  serve  with  butter. 

Spinach. — For  greens,  this  vegetable  is  esteemed  next  to  young 
beets,  and  should  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner,  using  only  the  leaves. 
It  is  almost  the  first  green  to  be  obtained,  if  rightly  managed  in  the 
fall.     {See  Kitchen  Garden.) 

Squash. — Gather  the  summer  squashes  when  young  and  tender. 
If  the  scallop,  the  seeds  will  do  no  harm.  Cut  it  in  quarters,  and 
boil  in  a  bag  until  tender.  Squeeze  out  all  the  water,  and  season 
with  salt  and  butter ;  pepper  can  be  added  at  the  table. 

Baking-  Squash. — These  are  sliced  and  baked  like  potatoes,  and 
served  in  the  same  manner. 

Hermetically-sealed  Squash  and  Pumpkin. — Stew  and  strain 
ready  for  use,  fill  the  cans  nearly  full  while  hot,  seal  hot  on  the  cap,  make 
a  small  aperture  as  directed  for  all  other  can  fruits.  Place  in  the  water 
bath  until  they  become  boiling  hot,  let  them  boil  half  an  hour,  then 
close  the  aperture  with  solder.  Mark  the  cans,  that  the  contents  may 
be  known. 

TomatO. — The  large  smooth  red,  is,  perhaps,  the  best  on  the  whole, 
for  family  use. 


VEGETABLES.  131 

To  Stew  Tomatoes. — Pour  boiling  water  over  ripe  tomatoes; 
remove  the  skin,  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces.  If  very  seedy,  squeeze 
out  all  the  seeds  possible,  without  losing  too  much  juice  ;  cook  them 
in  a  bright  tin  or  an  enamelled  kettle;  season  with  butter  and  salt. 
Let  each  add  jepper  at  the  table,  to  suit  themselves. 

Tomato  Toast. — This  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish ;  prepare  the  toma- 
toes, and  stew  them  as  directed.  Toast  a  slice  of  light  bread  for  each 
member  of  the  family,  and  spread  the  stewed  tomatoes  evenly  on  each 
slice.'   If  any  is  left,  pour  it  over  the  whole ;  serve  immediately. 

Heemetic ally- sealed  Tomatoes. — Peel  as  directed;  let  them 
become  boiling  hot,  fill  each  can  nearly  full ;  seal  on  the"  caps ;  make 
a  small  hole  in  each,  and  place  them  in  the  water  bath.  Let  them 
remain  until  the  fruit  becomes  boiling  hot,  and  the  air  exhausted, 
which  can  be  told  by  placing  a  drop  of  water  over  the  hole ;  while 
there  is  air  in  the  can  it  will  blubber ;  as  soon  as  it  is  all  expelled,  the 
water  will  draw  in,  when  the  aperture  must  be  closed.  Mark  the  cans 
as  soon  as  taken  out.  If  the  next  morning  any  cans  are  not  draw  in, 
{see  Peaches,)  the  cans  are  either  imperfect,  or  the  air  not  fully  ex- 
pelled ;  in  either  case,  the  fault  must  be,  if  possible,  corrected.  If  no 
leak  appears,  place  the  swollen  cans  again  in  the  water  bath,  to  go 
through  the  same  process  before  explained. 

Tuknips. — The  early  white  Dutch,  and  green,  and  red  strap-leaved 
are  among  the  best  for  family  use.  The  flavor  is  improved  by  slight 
frosts,  although  it  is  not  well  to  let  them  freeze  and  thaw. 

Pla*n  Boiled  Tuknips. — Boil  in  water,  with  a  little  salt,  until 
tender,  or  with  corned  beef,  or  pork.  Serve  whole  with  boiled  din- 
ners. 

Mashed  Tuknips. — Boil  in  clear  water,  until  very  tender.  Drain 
them  well,  mash  free  from  lumps,  season  with  butter  and  salt.  Send 
them  to  the  table  in  a  covered  dish,  nicely  smoothed,  and  dotted  over 
with  pepper.  Serve  with  baked,  roast,  fried,  or  broiled  meats,  and 
with  fowls  in  every  form.  They  should  always  accompany  duck, 
goose,  and  mutton. 

TO  PRESERVE  VEGETABLES  THROUGH  WINTER. 

Aktichokes  can  be  left  in  the  ground,  from  one  season  to  another; 
though  it  is  well  to  throw  litter  over  them. 


132  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Beets. — These  do  the  best,  for  winter  use,  packed  in  sand  in  the 
cellar.  For  spring  use,  small  roots  not  fully  grown,  should  be  selected, 
(see  Kitchen  Garden,)  and  buried  below  frost.  An  overgrown, 
tough  beet  is  a  poor  vegetable. 

Cabbages  and  Cauliflower. — These  had  better  be"buried  in  a  pit 
below  frost.    They  can  then  be  removed  at  pleasure. 

Celery. — A  quantity  can  be  packed  in  the  cellar  for  winter  Use,  in 
sand.  The  remainder  will  do  very  well  left  in  the  trench,  with  boards 
put  over  to  form  a  ridge ;  cover  these  with  coarse  litter,  to  keep  out 
the  frost.  "When  a  large  quantity  is  to  be  kept  over,  make  the  plan  in 
the  spring,  and  plant  the  trenches  so  that  the  middle  trench  shall  be  a 
half-foot  higher  than  the  two  outside  ones ;  pack  the  soil  well  around 
this,  and  fill  up  the  other  trenches.  Saw  boards  just  the  right  length, 
to  place  together,  and  cover  the  three  trenches,  meeting  in  the  middle 
of  the  trench  to  form  a  ridge ;  cover  it  with  litter,  packing  it  ridge- 
shaped,  to  shed  the  rain.  It  must  have  sufficient  litter  to  keep  out  the 
frost,  and  never  be  opened  in  severe  weather. 

Parsley. — Take  up  some  roots,  and  pack  them  in  a  barrel  filled 
with  soil,  with  large  holes  bored  at  regular  distances.  Put  the  roots 
through  the  holes,  leaving  the  crowns  nearly  outside ;  set  the  bar- 
rel in  a  warm  light  cellar,  and  moisten  the  soil  once  or  twice  every 
week.  It  can  also  be  kept  growing,  by  making  a  cold-frame  over  it, 
thus  protecting  it  from  the  frost ;  but  unless  it  has  some  light,  it  will 
blanch,  and  lose  much  of  its  beauty. 

Parsnips. — Pill  a  barrel  with  them  before  the  ground  freezes ;  pack 
tight,  and  fill  the  vacancies  with  sand ;  let  them  freeze,  and  then  put 
them  in  a  cool  cellar.  They  can  also  be  left  in  the  ground  until  spring, 
which  is  the  old  but  not  best  mode. 

"Winter  Kadish.— -  Store  them  in  the  cellar,  where  they  will  neither 
grow  nor  freeze. 

Potatoes. — Pack  in  barrels  or  boxes  what  are  needed  for  winter 
use ;  scatter  plaster  over  each  layer,  to  absorb  moisture  ;  it  is  also  a 
preventive  to  the  rot,  although  not  always  certain,  yet  they  keep  better 
with  than  without  it.  If  they  grow,  the  sprouts  must  be  rubbed  off, 
and  all  decayed  potatoes  picked  out.  It  is  better  to  bury  in  the 
old-fashioned  manner  all  potatoes  wanted  for  spring  use.  It  is  a 
good  plan  too  to  sprinkle  plaster  in  among  them.  The  hills  should 
not  be  uncovered  in  severe  weather. 


VEGETABLES.  «  133 

Turnips. — Store  all  wanted  for  winter  consumption  in  the  cellar, 
where  they  will  be  too  cool  to  grow,  but  not  cold  enough  to  freeze. 
For  spring  use,  bury  below  frost. 

Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oyster. — Pack  in  barrels  in  sand,  as  di- 
rected for  parsnips  for  the  winter.  The  remainder  leave  where  they 
grew. 

"Winter  Squash. — Hang  them  up  by  the  stem  in  a  cool  place 
free  from  frost ;  or  lay  them  on  shelves  where  they  will  touch 
nothing. 

Onions. — Gather  them  as  soon  as  the  tops  are  dead.  Dry  thor- 
oughly, and  spread  thinly  in  a  cool  dry  place.  They  are  very  apt 
to  grow,  which  injures  them  much.  If  spread  thinly  they  will  re- 
main dry,  and  keep  much  longer  without  sprouting  than  when  laid 
in  heaps. 

Vegetable  Cellar. — This  should  be  cool  and  dark,  yet  so  ar- 
ranged that  it  can  be  ventilated  without  trouble.  No  imperfect, 
half-decayed  vegetables  should  be  allowed  to  remain,  as  it  is  not  only 
unhealthy  for  the  family  to  breathe  the  air  which  rises  from  the  cellar, 
but  they  also  promote  decay  in  other  vegetables,  whether  they  come 
in  contact  with  them  or  not.  In  the  preservation  of  vegetables,  we 
should,  as  far  as  possible,  imitate  nature.  A  cool  dark  cellar  seems 
next  to  burying  the  roots,  which  would  seem  to  be  the  nearest  to  the 
natural  mode.  Chloride  of  lime  is  an  excellent  purifier  for  a  root 
cellar.  The  best  method  is  to  place  a  crock  similar  to  a  common 
filterer,  on  a  bench  in  the  centre  of  the  cellar,  with  another  dish  to 
catch  the  droppings  from  it  as  it  dissolves.  There  will  be  sufficient 
dampness  arising  from  the  vegetables  to  moisten  it.  When  the  dish 
is  full,  it  can  be  dried,  and  used  over  and  over  again.  This  not  only 
purifies  but  exhausts  the  air ;  making  the  cellar  more  healthy  for  the 
family  and  vegetables. 


CHAPTER   VIII. 

PUDDING  AND  DINNER  DESSEETS. 


Directions  to  Boil  Puddings. — To  prepare  a  pudding-bag,  sew 
firmly  strong  canvas  in  the  shape  of  a  sugar  loaf,  sew  within  four 
inches  of  the  top  a  strong  string.    Before  putting  in  the  pudding,  dip 


134 

the  bag  in  boiling  water,  turn  the  bag  on  the  wrong  side,  and  dredge  it 
well  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  pot  of  water  boiling  hard ;  put  in  the 
pudding,  allow  room  for  swelling,  and  tie  firmly.  Turn  a  plate  in 
the  bottom  of  the  pot,  and  be  sure  that  there  is  enough  boiling  water 
to  completely  cover  it.  Keep  the  tea-kettle  boiling  all  the  while  the 
pudding  is  in  the  pot,  and  fill  up  often.  Fifteen  minutes  after  the 
pudding  is  put  in,  turn  it  over  in  the  pot,  and  after  half  an  hour  turn 
it  again.  When  done,  dip  the  bag  in  a  pail  of  cold  water  and  turn  it 
out.  A  boiled  pudding  should  be  served  as  soon  as  dished.  A 
pudding  form  or  tin  boiler  should  be  greased  with  butter  before 
putting  in  the  pudding ;  the  water  should  be  above  the  pudding  but 
not  over  the  form,  and  the  same  quantity  kept  in  the  kettle  con- 
stantly. 

Baked  Puddings. — All  batter  puddings  fall  soon  after  they  are 
baked.  They  ought  to  be  served  immediately  after  they  are  done. 
Indian  puddings  require  long  and  slow  baking.  Rice  should  be  baked 
quickly.  Tapioca  and  other  puddings  of  the  kind  should  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven,  like  custards.  All  cake  puddings  should  be  baked 
in  the  same  manner  as  cakes  of  nearly  the  same  composition ;  as, 
for  instance,  sponge  puddings  quick,  and  plumb  puddings  a  long 
time. 

Cottage  Pudding. — One  cup  loaf-sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, two  table-spoons  of  melted  butter,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  of 
tartar,  and  one  of  fine  salt  mixed  in  three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and  the 
flour  again  sifted ;  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  milk 
and  strained ;  stir  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  afterwards  the  whites  and  flour,  and  lastly  the  milk.  Prepare 
the  pudding  when  convenient,  leaving  out  the  milk  until  the  dinner 
is  ready  to  serve ;  have  the  oven  heated  to  a  quick  but  not  burning 
heat.  The  pudding  baker  should  be  of  earthen,  and  shallow ;  grease  it 
with  sweet  butter,  stir  in  the  milk  and  soda  with  a  quick  movement, 
and  bake  immediately.  It  will  be  ready  for  the  table  in  twenty 
minutes,  or  less  if  very  thin.  Serve  with  sweet  cream,  sugared  with 
loaf  sugar,  and  flavored  with  a  drop  of  any  extract  fancied  by  the 
family.     (Wine  sauce,  or  Dyspepsia  sauce,  see  Sauces  foe  Pudding.) 

Lemon  Pudding. — Take  two  large  fresh  lemons,  roll  them  on  the 
table  under  the  hand  ;  grate  the  thin  yellow  part  of  the  peel,  and  mix 
it  with  half  a  pound  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar  ;  mix  with  the  sugar, 
until  light  and  creamy,  six  ounces  of  sweet  butter ;  separate  and  beat 


PUDDING   AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  135 

as  light  as  possible  six  eggs,  beat  into  the  sugar  and  butter,  first 
the  yolks  and  afterwards  the  whites,  and  lastly  the  juice  of  the  lemons 
strained  through  a  sieve  ;  beat  the  whole  well  together,  and  pour  it 
in  white  shallow  pudding-bakers  with  broad  rims.  Cover  the  rims 
with  puff  paste,  but  do  not  line  the  dishes.  After  the  pudding  is 
done,  have  ready  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  light,  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  sugar  worked  slowly  in  it,  as  directed  for  Sugar  Kisses  ; 
cover  the  top  of  the  custard  with  the  egg  and  sugar,  lay  paper  on  the 
puff  paste  to  prevent  its  scorching,  and  set  the  pudding  in  a  coolish 
oven,  until  the  frosting  is  dried  over  the  top.  Serve  cold,  without 
sauce,  cutting  in  equal  parts.  Any  other  juicy  fruit  can  be  used  in 
place  of  the  lemon. 

Strawberry  Pudding,  etc. — Take  sufficient  strawberries  to  make 
a  half  pint  of  juice,  six  table-spoons  of  sugar,  two  table-spoons  of 
melted  butter,  four  eggs ;  beat  it  well  together,  and  bake  and  orna- 
ment it  as  described  in  Lemon  Pudding.  Orange,  raspberry,  cherry, 
cranberry,  currant,  or  any  other  fruit  can  be  used  in  the  same  man- 
ner, varying  the  amount  of  sugar.  # 

Pineapple  Pudding. — Prepare  ripe  pineapples  by  grating  them 
very  finely.  Prepare  a  custard  with  cream  and  egg.  Heat  the  cus- 
tard over  steam  until  sufficiently  hot  to  congeal  the  cream.  Having 
drained  the  pineapple  free  from  juice,  and  sweetened  it  one  hour 
before,  it  will  be  ready  to  mix  with  the  cream ;  pour  in  a  fancy  dish 
that  has  been  heated,  so  that  it  will  not  break,  a  layer  of  the  cream, 
then  a  layer  of  the  pineapple,  until  the  whole  is  in  the  dish.  Beat 
sweet  cream  stiff,  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar  very  sweet,  and  just  before 
the  dessert  is  served  add  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  and  pile  the  beaten  cream 
on  the  top  of  the  pudding.  The  only  care  in  making  this  dessert  is  the 
danger  of  the  custard  and  cream  becoming  sour.  Cocoa  pudding  can 
be  made  in  the  same  way,  adding  the  cocoa  milk  to  the  cream. 

Cocoa  Snow.— Grate  the  white  part  of  a  cocoa-nut  and  mix  it 
with  white  sugar ;  serve  with  whipped  cream  or  not,  as  desired.  This 
is  called  cocoa  snow.  It  looks  beautifully  on  the  table,  it  is  proper  for 
dinner  or  evening  parties. 

A  Beautiful  Charlotte  Eusse,  No.  1. — Cut  the  inside  from  a 
nice  sponge-cake,  leaving  the  sides  whole ;  prepare  blancmange,  and 
let  it  remain  over  steam  until  wanted  ;  spread  on  the  bottom  of  the 
cake  a  layer  of  the  blancmange,  moving  it  around  until  a  little  thick ; 


136 

spread  in  a  thin  layer  of  any  marmalade,  then  a  layer  of  blancmange, 
and  a  very  thin  layer  of  marmalade,  until  the  cake  is  fall ;  the  marma- 
lade should  be  much  thinner  than  the  blancmange,  and  the  last  should 
be  blancmange,  to  look  well. 

Chaelotte  Kusse,  No.  2. — Prepare  a  ladies'  cake  as  above; 
have  ready  nice  calf's  foot  jelly,  blancmange,  and  the  white  and 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  separately,  and  made  stiff  with  pulverized  loaf- 
sugar  ;  into  the  whites  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  add  the  thin 
grated  rind  to  the  yolks ;  spread  the  yolk  over  the  bottom  of  the  cake, 
let  it  dry  a  little,  and  spread  a  thick  layer  of  blancmange ;  on  this  put 
another  layer  of  yolk,  then  blancmange,  on  this  the  whites  very  thin, 
then  the  calf's  foot  jelly,  blancmange  next,  and  last  the  top  of  the 
cake ;  let  it  stand  until  solid,  turn  it  out,  and  frost  its  top  and  sides, 
or  cover  the  whole  with  calf's  foot  jelly. 

Impeoved  Boston  Apple  Pudding. — Eighteen  fine  acid  apples 
stewed  with  very  little  water,  with  half  a  nutmeg ;  rasp  the  yellow 
rind  of  a  lemon,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  pass  the  whole  through  a  sieve ; 
add,  while  the  pulp  is  warm,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  with 
the  juice  of  the  lemon,  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  and  white  of  one  egg  ; 
beat  fifteeen  minutes  hard ;  line  a  shallow  pudding  baker  with  puff 
paste,  set  it  in  the  oven  until  baked,  pour  in  the  custard,  and  bake 
half  an  hour ;  while  baking,  which  takes  half  an  hour,  beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  stiff,  allow  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  beat 
thoroughly ;  spread  the  sugar  and  egg  over  the  top  of  the  custard,  and 
set  it  in  the  oven  until  browned ;  no  sauce  is  needed,  but  plain  cream 
would  be  an  addition. 

FpwTtit  Blancmange. — Prepare  blancmange  as  directed ;  have  ready 
any  fruit  not  too  juicy,  nicely  sugared ;  stir  the  blancmange  until  it 
thickens,  then  put  a  layer  of  pulped  fruit  and  a  layer  of  blancmange 
into  a  deep  glass  dish  until  quite  full.     Serve  with  cream. 

Dinnee  Ceeam,  No.  1. — Beat  sweet  cream  stiff,  sugar  to  the  taste, 
and  add  any  sweet  fruit  pulped ;  soak  ladies'  fingers  or  slices  of  any 
nice  sponge-cake  in  wine,  and  serve  it  with  the  fruit ;  or  the  cake  may 
be  steeped  in  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  and  beat  with  the  cream,  in  which 
case  sweeten  the  juice. 

Dinnee  Ceeam,  No.  2. — Cream  beat  stiff,  sweetened,  with  no  fruit, 
is  very  nice  to  serve  with  blancmange  jellies,  or  fresh  fruit ;  a  coffee- 


PUDDING    AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  137 

cupful  of  good  cream  will  beat  to  a  common-sized  bowlful ;  wnen  cream 
is  scarce,  it  is  economy  to  beat  it. 

Cocoa  Cream. — Whip  sweet  cream  stiff;  mix  with  it  as  much 
grated  cocoa  as  convenient ;  about  half  as  much  by  measure,  after  it 
is  grated,  as  the  cream  was  before  whipping,  is  a  good  proportion ; 
sweeten  to  suit  the  taste.  Sweet  almonds,  pounded  with  rose-water 
in  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  few  bitter  ones,  are  very  nice  prepared  in 
the  same  manner  as  cocoa. 

Calf's  Foot  Jellt  Desserts. — Take  four  nice  large  calf's  feet ;  the 
hair  only  should  be  removed,  not  the  skins ;  having  cleaned  them 
perfectly,  split  them  as  far  as  convenient,  and  boil  in  filtered  rain- 
water, allowing,  if  the  feet  are  large  and  the  skins  on,  one  quart  to 
each  foot ;  boil  until  the  water  will  measure  two  quarts,  and  the  flesh 
reduced  to  pieces.  They  want  slow  but  steady  boiling ;  strain  the 
liquid  through  a  sieve ;  heat  it  over,  and  strain  it  through  a  bag ;  if 
grease  still  appears  on  the  surface,  remove  it  carefully ;  turn  it  out 
and  remove  all  impurities ;  after  this  is  prepared,  it  can  be  flavored 
to  suit  the  fancy ;  and  according  to  the  flavor,  it  is  called  wine,  lemon, 
or  any  other  jelly.  Cut  up  the  jelly,  put  it  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and 
set  it  over  steam  to  melt ;  mix  with  the  melted  jelly,  five  gills  of  pure 
grape-wine  of  the  best  quality ;  sherry  is  probably  the  best,  as  it  is 
decided  and  light  colored ;  the  grated  rind  of  five  large  or  six  medium- 
sized  fresh  lemons,  not  allowing  any  part  of  the  under  or  white  part 
of  the  lemons  to  be  used,  as  it  gives  a  bitter  taste ;  squeeze  all  of  the 
juice  from  the  lemons,  and  strain  it  in  the  jelly,  with  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar  ;  beat  up  slightly,  merely  enough  to  mix  the  eggs,  the  whites  of 
six  eggs  with  their  shells  well  washed  and  pounded  fine  ;  mix  the  in- 
gredients and  boil  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  let  it  stand  and 
settle  a  few  moments  where  it  will  not  cool  nor  boil ;  have  ready  a 
flannel  jelly  bag,  (see  Jelly  Bag,)  pour  in  the  jelly,  and  let  it  drip 
through  by  the  fire ;  if  too  cool,  it  will  congeal.  If  the  jelly  is  to  be 
moulded,  it  will  need  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  melted  with 
the  other  ingredients.  It  is  fashionable  now  to  break  up  jelly,  and 
serve  it  in  glass  dishes ;  it  looks  very  pretty  in  this  way,  and  we  think 
the  isinglass  no  improvement  to  jellies,  where  they  can  be  set  without 
it :  this  can  be  varied  to  suit  the  taste  :  if  moulded,  set  it  on  ice,  if 
the  weather  is  warm ;  it  is  nice  frozen  as  you  would  ice-cream ;  the 
rule  for  isinglass  jellies  is  an  ounce  to  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pint 
of  liquids;  the  isinglass  should  be  soaked  and  dissolved  in  as  little 


138         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

water  as  possible,  the  pint  of  juice  mixed  with  it  after  it  is  melted, 
and  afterward  the  sugar,  when  it  must  be  strained  until  clear ;  calf's 
foot  jelly  and  isinglass  jellies  often  require  straining  several  times  be- 
fore becoming  clear ;  the  bag  should  be  washed  each  time  it  is  used 
before  repeating  the  straining.  Pig's  may  be  substituted  for  calf's 
feet,  if  t>he  latter  cannot  be  obtained. 

Blancmange  Calf's  Feet. — The  jelly  being  prepared  from  the 
calf's  feet  according  to  former  directions,  melt  it  over  steam ;  after  it 
is  melted,  boil  and  skim  it  as  long  as  any  grease  remains;  pass  it 
through  the  jelly-bag,  if  not  quite  clear;  after  it  is  quite  solid,  turn 
it  out  and  scrape  off  all  impurities  that  may  yet  be  left ;  cut  up  the 
jelly  and  melt  it  again ;  boil  a  pint  of  rich  cream  from  the  morning's 
milk  if  used  in  the  afternoon,  or  the  night's  milk  if  in  the  morning ; 
when  the  cream  boils,  add  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar ;  flavor  with 
vanilla  or  bitter  almond,  not  stirred  in  until  partly  cool ;  mix  the  cream 
and  sugar  gradually  with  the  jelly,  and  transfer  to  the  moulds,  which 
should  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
thickens ;  add  the  flavoring  when  it  is  so  thick  as  to  stir  with  difficulty, 
and  set  the  moulds  on  ice  until  wanted ;  to  turn  it  out,  dip  the  moulds 
in  warm  water,  and  turn  them  bottomside  up  ;  serve  with  cream,  if 
for  dinner. 

German  Boiled  Bice  Pudding. — Scald  in  water  eight  ounces  of 
rice,  after  which  boil  it  in  one  quart  of  milk  until  it  forms  a  mass  or 
jelly  ;  stir  into  it  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  let  it  become  en- 
tirely cold,  then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  ten  well-beaten  eggs,  and  beat  well 
until  the  eggs  and  rice  are  thoroughly  incorporated ;  add  a  little  cin- 
namon, the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  salt,  and  beat  thorough- 
ly ;  beat  the  whites  of  the  ten  eggs  to  snow,  and  stir  them  into  the 
rice ;  grease  a  pudding  form,  and  fill  it,  allowing  four  inches  for  the 
swelling  of  the  pudding ;  boil  it  three  hours  without  ceasing ;  the  wa- 
ter must  not  cover  the  pudding,  nor  be  allowed  either  to  cool  or  boil 
away ;  fill  often  with  boiling  water  from  the  tea-kettle.  Serve  with 
wine  sauce  or  rosehip  sauce. 

German  Baised  Pudding. — Stir  into  a  pint  of  milk  half  a  pound 
of  flour ;  mix  in  the  middle  of  the  dough  two  large  spoonfuls  of  lively 
homemade  hop  yeast,  let  it  rise ;  when  light  add  two  ounces  melted 
butter,  six  ounces  blanched  almonds,  pounded  with  a  little  white  of 
eggs,  or  chopped  very  finely,  a  little  salt,  half  a  pound  of  Zante  cur- 
rants, and  five  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately ;  mix  all 


PUDDING    AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  139 

together,  and  let  it  stand  nntil  light ;  it  will  tako  three  honrs  to  boil ; 
put  it  in  boiling  water;  do  not  cover  the  pudding  with  it  or  allow  it 
to  boil  away  ;  keep  the  tea-kettle  boiling  to  fill  the  pot ;  serve  with  a 
sweet  liquid  sauce. 

German  Rye  Bread  Pudding. — Six  ounces  of  rye  bread,  finely 
pounded,  and  weighed  after  drying ;  brown  without  scorching,  and  wet 
the  bread  with  red  wine,  allowiug  it  to  soak  all  it  will;  add  six  ounces 
of  melted  butter,  not  oiled ;  mix  well ;  then  add  six  ounces  of  pounded 
almonds,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  and  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste  ; 
separate  and  beat  twelve  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  mix  in  the  yolks, 
and  lastly  the  whites.  Boil  the  pudding  in  forms  or  a  bag,  from  two 
to  two  and  a  half  hours  ;  serve  with  any  sauce  that  suits  the  taste. 
The  German  rules  for  cooking  in  this  book  are  very  superior,  they  were 
obtained  from  a  superior  German  cook,  and  may  be  relied  upon. 

Fourth-of-July  Pudding. — Flavor  very  highly  three  pints  of 
cream  from  the  last  night's  milk,  with  equal  parts  of  extracts  of  vanilla 
and  lemon ;  slice  a  pound  of  sponge-cake  (almond  sponge  is  the  finest) 
in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  cream  ;  let  it  stand  until  the  cake  is 
dissolved ;  blanch  two  ounces  of  bitter  almonds,  and  pound  them  one  at 
a  time,  fine,  with  rose-water,  in  a  marble  or  glass  mortar ;  when  finished, 
set  them  in  a  cool  place  ;  if  the  almonds  are  too  much  trouble,  add  a 
little  extract  of  bitter  almond  to  the  cream;  beat  eight  eggs,  the 
whites  and  yolks  separate,  put  in  the  yolks  a  half  pound  of  loaf-sugar, 
beat  up  the  cream  and  cake,  then  stir  in  gradually  the  almonds  and 
eggs  ;  the  yolks  first,  and  whites  last ;  butter  a  deep  white  dish,  and 
pour  in  the  mixture  ;  bake  in  a  brisk  oven ;  when  baked,  grate  over 
the  top  loaf-sugar  until  it  is  white,  and  ornament  the  top  with  citron 
cut  in  stars  and  stripes,  to  resemble  the  American  flag ;  or  the  same 
may  be  done  with  red  sugar  sand ;  another  way  is  to  form  a  large  star 
in  the  centre  and  small  stars  near  the  edge.  There  should  be  the 
same  number  of  stars  as  there  are  States  in  the  Union.  Preserved 
citron  melon  looks  better  than  dry  citron,  if  you  have  it ;  this  is  good 
as  well  as  fanciful,  and  will  be  found  economical,  after  a  party,  when 
bits  of  cake,  nuts,  and  ice-cream  are  left,  which  can  be  used  in  place  of 
the  cream. 

Quick  Pudding. — Soften  light  sponge-cake,  or  any  other  kind, 
made  with  little  butter,  in  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk,  heated  and 
poured  on  hot ;  make  a  rich  boiled  custard,  and  pour  it  over  the  cake 
and  cream  while  hot,  and  beat  the  whole  well  together ;  flavor  with 


140  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

the  same  flavoring  used  in  the  cake ;  if  it  has  none,  with  lemon,  vanilla, 
or  bitter  almond ;  it  can  be  eaten  hot  or  cold ;  use  a  sauce  of  butter 
and  sugar,  beat  together  until  light,  and  thin  it  with  wine.  The  pud- 
ding should  be  as  thick  as  baked  custard. 

Wine  Pudding. — Moisten  sponge  or  lady-cake  with  wine,  add  a 
little  lemon  or  vanilla,  nutmeg  and  powdered  sugar ;  beat  separately 
four  eggs,  and  stir  them  in  a  pint  of  rich  cream ;  mix  the  whole  to- 
gether, beating  it  well,  pour  it  in  a  deep  dish  well  buttered,  and  bake 
a  light  brown  ;  when  cold,  cover  it  with  a  light  frosting  and  dry  it 
without  scorching ;  the  frosting  can  be  flavored  with  lemon  or  straw- 
berry juice ;  the  latter  gives  a  pinkish  tinge,  but  little  must  be  used, 
or  the  frosting  will  be  too  thin.  This  is  a  beautiful-looking  pudding ; 
serve  with  egg  wine-cream  sauce,  made  as  follow :  beat  thoroughly 
three  eggs ;  heat  a  half  pint  of  wine  over  steam  until  nearly  boiling 
hot,  strain  the  egg  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  mix  it  gradually  with 
the  wine  while  hot ;  when  cool,  add  half  a  pint  of  rich  sweet  cream 
beat  stiff,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 

Plain  Raised  Battee  Pudding. — Warm  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  melt 
iu  it  a  large  heaping  table-spoonful  of  butter ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  half 
teaspoon  of  soda,  a  table-spoon  of  good  yeast,  three  well-beaten  eggs, 
a  teacup  of  sugar,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a 
batter  as  stiff  as  it  can  be  mixed,  and  beat  it  with  a  spoon ;  let  it  stand 
in  the  pudding-dish  until  light ;  fruit  can  be  added  if  desired.  When 
baked,  turn  it  bottomside  up,  and  serve  with  a  rich  sauce. 

Feutt  Eaised  Pudding. — When  baking  take  two  andr  a  half  cups 
of  light  dough,  one  of  sugar,  hardly  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  butter, 
two  eggs,  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  glass  of  wine  or  brandy,  cin- 
namon, cloves,  and  nutmeg,  being  careful  not  to  let  one  spice  predomi- 
nate, a  half  pound  of  washed  currants,  the  same  of  stoned  raisins,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron  chopped  fine ;  let  it  stand  until  light,  in  the 
pudding-dish ;  bake  carefully  so  as  not  to  form  a  heavy  crust ;  turn 
it  out  when  baked,  and  pour  over  it  while  hot  a  rich  wine  sauce ; 
this  will  be  found  excellent ;  it  must  be  started  very  early  in  the 
morning.  If  homemade  yeast  is  used,  the  dough  can  be  saved  until 
the  next  day ;  sweeten  it  with  soda,  before  mixing  in  the  other  ingre- 
dients, and  allow  it  to  rise  again. 

Country  Eaised  Pudding. — Take  two  cups  of  dough,  a  quarter 
of  a  cup  of  butter,  a  half  teacup  of  sugar ;  any  dried  fruit  on  hand,  or 


PUDDING    AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  141 

none,  as  desired ;  equal  parts  of  caraway  and  coriander  seed  ground 
and  sifted,  one  teaspoon  each,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  eggs,  and  half 
a  teaspoon  of  soda ;  let  it  rise ;  when  baked,  turn  it  out,  and  serve  with 
sweet  cream  and  sugar.  If  the  pudding  is  too  late  for  the  dinner  the 
same  day  baked,  steam  it  the  next  day  one  hour  over  milk,  and  if  any 
thing  it  is  better  than  at  first. 

Kaised  Graham  Pudding. — Take  unbolted  flour,  and  mix  it  with 
milk  sweetened  with  two  table-spoonfuls  molasses  as  thick  as  it  can , 
possibly  be  stirred  with  a  spoon ;  stir  in  it  a  table-spoon  of  yeast,  and 
let  it  rise  ;  when  light  bake  it ;  let  it  remain  in  a  dry  place  two  days ; 
then  take  off  the  top  and  side  crust,  and  steam  it  over  milk  three 
hours ;  serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  maple  syrup.  If  home  hop 
yeast  is  used,  take  two  spoonfuls. 

Pennsylvania  Pudding. — One  pint  of  milk,  a  table-spoonful  of 
washed  rice,  half  a  cup  of  raisins ;  sugar  to  the  taste,  a  little  salt  and 
nutmeg ;  mix  all  together  and  put  it  in  to  bake ;  stir  it  up  after  it  has 
skinned  over  four  times,  mixing  up  raisins  and  rice  with  the  milk  each 
time ;  let  it  bake  until  the  rice  is  cooked ;  serve  cold,  with  cream 
and  sugar. 

A  Baked  Pudding  of  Boiled  Eice. — One  teacup  of  boiled  rice, 
three  beaten  eggs,  a  large  pint  of  milk,  a  teacup  of  raisins,  nutmeg,  a 
little  salt,  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  If  it  is  to  be  served  without 
sauce,  it  will  take  more  sugar  than  if  with  ;  if  served  hot,  a  sauce  of 
sugar  and  butter  worked  together ;  if  cold  cream  and  sugar,  beat  well 
and  flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Baeud  Eice  Flour  Pudding,  No.  1. — Boil  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  and 
while  hot,  stir  in  it  a  half  teacup  of  rice  flour,  mixed  smooth  in  sweet 
milk  ;  let  it  scald  to  thicken,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  pigeon's 
egg,  and  stir  into  the  butter  a  pint  of  milk ;  beat  three  eggs,  and  stir 
into  the  mixture  when  cold ;  add  salt,  sugar,  and  nutmeg;  bake  twenty 
minutes,  stir  it  up  once  after  it  skims  over ;  if  quite  sweet,  serve  with 
butter  alone ;  if  not,  add  sugar. 

Baxed  Eice  Flour  Pudding,  No.  2. — Boil  one  pint  of  milk,  thicken 
with  a  table-spoonful  of  rice  flour ;  let  it  become  cool,  add  five  eggs 
well  beaten,  with  sugar,  salt,  and  nutmeg ;  stir  in  a  cup  of  raisins, 
and  lastly  a  pint  of  sweet  cream ;  bake  twenty  minutes,  stirring  the 
whole  of  the  ingredients  together  after  it  becomes  hot ;  serve  with 
sweet  or  wine  sauce. 


142 

Graham  Rice  Flour  Pudding,  No.  3. — Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  stir 
into  it  while  hot  a  teacup  of  rice  flour  mixed  in  milk ;  sweeten  quite 
sweet  with  sugar,  and  add  a  little  salt ;  then  stir  in  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  put  it  in  the  oven ;  when  quite  hot  stir  it  up  from  the  bottom, 
and  once  again  after  it  skims  over ;  serve  hot  with  loaf  sugar,  if  not 
very  sweet ;  if  sweet,  use  cream  or  butter. 

Rich  Eice  Flour  Pudding,  No.  4. — Boil  a  table-spoonful  of 
blanched  bitter  almonds  or  peach  kernels,  in  a  pint  of  milk,  until  it  is 
reduced  one-half ;  strain  it,  stir  into  a  gill  of  milk  five  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rice  flour,  making  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  the  boiled 
and  another  gill  of  rich  milk ;  beat  the  whole  well  together,  and  heat 
it  over  steam,  until  it  becomes  quite  thick,  stirring  all  the  time ;  after 
which  stir  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  and  the  same 
of  powdered  sugar ;  add  nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  unless  the  butter 
makes  it  sufficiently  salt ;  beat  eight  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  and  stir 
them  in  the  mixture  as  soon  as  it  is  too  cool  to  cook  them ;  beat  well 
together,  and  bake  steadily  three-fourths  of  an  hour ;  the  top  must 
not  be  allowed  to  scorch  or  blister ;  it  may  be  eaten  either  warm  or 
cold.  Serve  with  wine  sauce,  or  butter  and  sugar  worked  together. 
If  eaten  cold,  cream  and  sugar  is  better. 

Tapioca  Pudding,  No.  1. — Soak  three  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca  in 
a  quart  of  milk ;  flavor  with  nutmeg,  add  salt  and  sugar,  to  the  taste ; 
beat  four  eggs  and  stir  into  the  mixture ;  and  bake  three-fourths  of  an 
hour  very  steadily ;  serve  with  sour  sauce. 

Tapioca  Pudding,  No.  2. — Soak  in  one  quart  of  night's  milk  four 
heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca ;  in  the  morning,  boil  it  over  steam 
until  quite  thick,  stirring  it  from  the  bottom  several  times ;  add  a 
piece  of  fresh  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  four  well-beaten  eggs,  and  lastly,  a  gill  of  sweet  thin  cream 
from  the  morning's  milk ;  flavor  with  nutmeg ;  if  the  butter  does  not 
make  it  sufficiently  salt,  add  a  little  salt.  Bitter  almond  can  be  used 
in  place  of  nutmeg  if  relished ;  bake  a  half-hour,  serve  with  butter  and 
sugar  worked  to  a  cream,  and  thinned  with  a  gill  of  hot  wine. 

Ice  Cream  Pudding. — To  one  pint  of  cream  left  over  from  ice  cream 
add  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beat  stiff,  into  which  work  gradually 
six  ounces  powdered  sugar.  Stir  the  egg  and  sugar  into  the  cream, 
alternately  with  four  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  beat  the  whole  very  hard ; 


PUDDING   AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  143 

butter  well  a  deep  dish,  pour  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  thoroughly. 
Serve  hot,  with  sweet  or  wine  sauce. 

English  Bkead  Plum  Pudding,  No.  1. — Crumb  a  small  loaf  of 
bread  fine,  mix  with  it  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  raisins,  the  same  of 
washed  currants,  and  half  a  pound  of  citron ;  add  one  pound  of  suet 
chopped  fine  and  free  from  strings,  a  little  salt,  and  three  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  sugar.  Flavor  with  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix  this  together 
and  let  it,  stand  all  night  to  dry  the  crumbs  that  it  may  not  be 
clammy.  In  the  morning  beat  twelve  eggs  as  light  as  possible  with- 
out separating,  and  stir  them  in  the  mixture ;  beat  well,  and  when 
thoroughly  incorporated  with  the  bread  and  fruit,  stir  in  enough 
morning's  milk  to  moisten  the  whole;  add  a  little  salt,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  and  three  quarters  of  a  wine-glass  of  brandy.  Boil 
five  hours.    Serve  with  brandy,  wine,  or  rich  sweet  sauce. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. — Grate  cocoanut  and  mix  it  with  sugar,  dis- 
carding the  black  part.  Make  a  nice  boiled  custard  without  sugar, 
boil  it  over  steam  until  too  hard  to  use  as  boiled  custard,  strain  it  in 
the  cocoanut  and  sugar  before  it  becomes  solid,  and  beat  it  to- 
gether lightly.    When  cold  it  should  be  quite  stiff.    Serve  with  sweet 


English  Plum  Pudding,  No.  1.— -Roll  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
soda  crackers,  and  mix  them  in  two  quarts  of  milk.  "When  they  have 
soaked  soft,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  the  same 
quantity  of  loaf-sugar  rolled,  two  gills  of  flour,  measured  after  sifting, 
one  wine-glass  of  wine,  and  one-third  of  a  nutmeg.  Beat  ten  eggs  as 
lightly  as  possible,  and  stir  them  in  the  mixture.  Beat  the  whole 
well ;  then  rub  in  flour,  half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins  cut  once,  the 
same  quantity  of  Zante  currants  washed  and  dried,  and  half  as  much 
chopped  citron ;  and  mix  the  fruit  well  in  the  pudding.  Bake  or  boil 
two  hours.  Serve  with  brandy  or  wine  sauce.  It  can  be  eaten  hot 
or  cold. 

English  Plum  Pudding,  No.  2.— One  pound  of  beef  suet  finely 
shred  and  free  from  strings,  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour.  Mix 
these  together  with  a  little  salt ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  six  beaten 
eggs,  one-third  of  a  nutmeg,  half  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  and  the 
same  of  Zante  currants  washed  and  dried.  Mix  all  well  together,  and 
add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Boil  four  hours.  Servo 
hot  or  cold  with  a  rich  liquid  sauce. 


144  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Eich  Pltjm  Pudding. — One  cnp  of  beef  suet  chopped  very  fine 
and  free  from  shreds.  Mix  with  it  a  cup  and  a  half  of  flour,  and  one 
cup  of  sugar.  Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  them  with  the  beef 
suet,  etc.  Add  half  a  wine-glass  of  brandy,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  salt ; 
and  lastly,  stir  in  first  one  cup  of  washed  Zante  currants,  the  same  of 
stoned  raisins,  and  half  as  much  of  chopped  citron.  Mix  them  well, 
and  add  sufficient  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Boil  three 
hours.    Serve  hot  or  cold  with  rich  liquid  sauce. 

Apple  Pudding,  No.  1. — Take  six  tart  apples,  pippins  or  greenings 
are  the  best ;  steam  them  without  peeling,  after  washing  them  quite 
clean ;  strain  them  through  a  sieve.  Add  six  spoons  of  melted  butter 
and  the  same  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  half  a  wine-glass  of  brandy, 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Line  a  pudding  dish  with  puff  paste, 
and  bake  it.    Serve  hot  or  cold  with  sweet  cream  without  sugar. 

Apple  Roll  or  Apple  Pudding,  No.  2. — Make  a  paste  with  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  one  of  flour  mixed  with  water,  not  very 
stiff.  Peel  and  slice  rather  thick  tart  apples,  roll  the  paste  very  thin, 
or  as  thin  as  the  bottom  crust  of  a  pie,  spread  the  apples  on  the  crust, 
so  as  to  cover  it,  dredge  on  a  little  flour,  and  roll  it  as  tight  as  possi- 
ble. Out  the  ends  even,  and  put  it  in  the  steamer,  or  wrap  it 
in  thick  cloth  and  boil  it.  It  will  take  one  hour  steady  cooking. 
Serve  with  butter  and  sugar ;  cut  it  in  thin  slices  from  the  end  when 
serving. 

Berkshire  Pudding. — Peel  large  tart  apples  free  from  blemishes, 
take  out  the  cores  with  a  corer,  or  if  you  have  none,  with  a  three- 
pronged  fork,  turning  it  round  until  it  takes  out  the  core  on  the  op- 
posite side,  leaving  the  fruit  whole.  Prepare  a  nice  batter,  (see  Bat- 
ter Pudding,)  beat  it  well.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  place  as  many  sour 
apples  as  there  are  persons  to  be  served  in  the  dish,  and  pour  over 
them  the  batter.  If  the  apples  rise  when  the  pudding  heats,  push 
them  under  the  batter  once.  It  will  bake  in  twenty  minutes.  Serve ' 
as  soon  as  baked  or  it  will  fall.  :Make  a  sauce  with  butter  and  sugar 
in  equal  parts,  beat  to  a  cream.  To  serve  it,  put  on  each  plate  an 
apple  and  the  crust  that  surrounds  it. 

Sago  Pudding.— Cleanse  a  half  pound  of  sago  in  boiling  water, 
put  it  in  a  quart  of  milk,  and  boil  it  over  steam  until  dissolved,  stir- 
ring often.  When  soft,  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  a  half-teacup 
of  butter,  four  large  table-spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  one  wine- 


PUDDING    AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  145 

glass  of  wine,  and  when  cold  four  beaten  eggs.     Grate  in  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  add  salt.     Bake  immediately,  and  serve  cold  or  hot. 

Custakd  Pudding. — Stir  a  half-pint  of  flour  into  a  pint  of  milk, 
when  free  from  lumps  add  another  pint,  seven  beaten  eggs,  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  white  powdered  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  little  nutmeg.    Bake  steadily  a  half-hour.     Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding. — Peel  tart  apples,  take  out  the  cores,  leav- 
ing the  apples  whole ;  make  a  custard  of  eight  well-beaten  eggs,  half 
a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  scalded  milk  thickened  with 
a  heaping  table-spoonful  of  flour  and  a  little  salt,  but  no  sugar.  Pour 
it  over  the  apples.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  "When  the  apples  are 
tender  the  pudding  is  done.  Serve  immediately  with  butter  and 
sugar  stirred  to  a  cream. 

Kioh  Peach  Pudding,  No.  3. — Drop  ripe  sweet  freestone  peaches 
into  boiling  water  a  moment ;  take  them  out,  and  slip  off"  the  skins, 
place  them  in  a  deep  dish,  and  make  a  boiled  custard  without  sugar 
of  the  cream  from  the  morning's  milk,  or  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  and 
cream  mixed,  add  a  little  salt,  not  so  much  as  to  taste,  only  sufficient 
to  remove  the  freshness  of  the  custard.  Strain  it  over  the  peaches 
while  hot,  and  set  it  away.  Serve  with  cream  beat  to  a  froth,  slightly 
flavored  with  bitter  almond,  and  sweetened.    Serve  cold. 

Quince  Pudding. — Peel  quinces  and  take  out  the  cores,  leaving 
the  fruit  whole ;  boil  them  in  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  by 
setting  the  preserving  kettle  over  hot  water  until  quite  tender.  Place 
them  in  a  deep  dish,  and  make  a  custard  and  pour  over  the  quinces. 
Bake  just  long  enough  to  have  the  custard  become  solid.  Serve  cold, 
with  sweet  cream  and  no  sugar. 

Eioh  Peach  Pudding,  No.  4. — Kub  free  from  the  down,  or  take  off 
the  skin  from  as  many  peaches  as  there  are  persons  in  the  family,  cover 
a  deep  pudding-dish  with  nice  light  puff  paste,  set  it  in  the  oven  until 
quite  baked  through  ;  then  lay  in  the  peaches,  filling  the  dish  full ;  add 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg,  sift  in  some  flour,  and  dis- 
solve in  a  teacup  of  water  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten  it.  If  the 
peaches  are  sweet  it  will  take  but  little ;  pour  it  in  the  dish,  sift  in 
more  flour,  and  cover  it  with  puff  paste.  It  is  good  without  sauce,  but 
sweet  cream  without  sugar  is  an  improvement. 

Cheery  Pudding,  No.  1. — Pit  the  cherries,  and  save  the  juice. 
7 


146 

Line  a  shallow  pudding-dish  -with  paste,  and  bake  it.  Cut  paste  for  two 
covers  to  fit  the  inside  of  the  dish,  and  bake  that.  If  the  dish  is  deep 
it  will  take  three  or  four.  The  easiest  way  to  do  this  is  to  make  a 
paper  or  pasteboard  pattern  to  cut  by.  "When  the  paste  is  well  baked, 
spread  a  layer  of  cherries  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  put  at  equal  dis- 
tances pieces  of  butter  the  size  of  Lima  beans,  cover  with  sugar, 
dredge  on  flour,  and  lay  in  a  cover  of  paste;  on  this  put  another 
layer  as  before,  and  so  continue  until  the  whole  is  used.  Lastly,  put 
on  a  paste  cover  not  baked,  press  it  over  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  cut 
a  slash  in  the  centre.  The  fruit  should  have  been  drained  on  a  hair 
sieve,  and  the  juice  saved  in  an  earthen  dish.  Take  the  juice,  add  to 
each  pint  a  half-pint  of  loaf  sugar,  let  it  boil  up,  and  skim  it.  If  there 
is  not  a  sauce-boatful,  add  hot  water  and  the  same  proportion  of 
sugar.  Serve  both  pudding  and  sauce  before  it  is  cold,  but  not  burn- 
ing hot. 

Cheeey  Pudding,  No.  2. — Pit  the  cherries ;  for  every  pound  of 
fruit  allow  half  the  quantity  of  good  sugar,  poor  will  not  do ;  let  them 
lie  all  night  on  a  hair  sieve  to  drain,  and  save  the  juice  in  an  earthen 
dish.  Make  a  nice  batter  in  the  morning,  and  stir  in  the  drained  cher- 
ries, as  free  as  possible  from  juice.  Boil  or  bake.  It  will  take  one 
hour  to  bake  and  two  to  boil.  "When  ready  to  serve,  heat  the  juice, 
add  sugar  and  a  small  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  to  serve  as  sauce. 
It  will  be  found  superior. 

Bebey  Puddings. — Sweeten  the  fruit  if  acid,  and  drain  off  the 
juice  without  pressing.  Mix  the  fruit  in  rich  batter,  and  either  bake 
or  boil.  For  sauce,  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  sweet  cream,  and  stir  in  it  the 
juice  of  the  fruit.    Serve  cold  or  hot. 

Whoetlebeeey  Pudding. — Make  a  light  batter  and  stir  in  enough 
berries  to  make  the  pudding  black.  It  may  be  boiled  or  baked.  Serve 
hot,  with  rich  sweet  or  wine  sauce. 

Gingeebeead  Pudding. — Make  a  light  soft  gingerbread,  and  serve, 
while  hot,  with  rich  wine  or  sweet  sauce. 

Baeley  Pudding. — Wash  pearl  barley  in  boiling  water,  and  boil 
it  in  milk  until  tender ;  add  salt.  It  can  be  eaten  plain  with  cream  and 
sugar,  or  mixed  with  custard  and  baked. 

Boiled  Rice,  No.  1. — Wash  the  rice  clean,  and  put  it  in  cold 
water ;  when  it  boils,  throw  it  off  and  add  more ;  let  it  boil  until  nearly 


PUDDING    AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  147 

tender  and  the  water  about  evaporated,  then  salt  it ;  stir  in  milk,  and 
let  it  simmer  until  done.  Be  careful  not  to  break  the  kernels  more 
than  is  necessary.  If  it  burns  it  is  ruined.  Serve  with  sour  wine  or 
sweet  sauce,  it  is  also  good  with  butter  and  sugar,  maple  syrup,  or 
sweetened  cream.    Kaisins  may  be  added. 

Boiled  Eice,  No.  2. — Wash  the  rice  thoroughly,  and  throw  it  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes,  skim  it  out,  and 
drain  it.  This  is  used  as  a  vegetable  or  dessert ;  add  salt.  Serve  with 
cream  and  sugar,  or  as  a  vegetable. 

A  Eice  Boiled  Fancy. — Boil  according  to  method  No.  1 ;  when 
done,  while  hot,  pack  it  in  small  cups  partly  filled ;  when  cold  turn 
them  out  into  the  centre  of  a  deep  dish.  Make  round  holes  in  each, 
and  fill  them  with  jelly.  Make  a  boiled  custard  with  yolks  only,  pour 
it  in  the  dish,  leaving  the  rice  above  it.  It  should  be  stiff  enough  to  be 
solid  when  cold,  and  poured  on  hot.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  then  beat 
with  them  some  of  the  same  jelly  on  the  rice,  and  lay  it  in  even  spoon- 
fuls round  the  edge  of  the  dish.  Serve  cold,  it  makes  a  pretty  dish. 
The  rice,  which  is  tasteless,  can  be  flavored  with  lemon  juice  or  any 
thing  desired.  Strawberries  or  raspberries  can  take  the  place  of  the 
jelly. 

Minute  Pudding. — Beat  up  the  flour  in  as  little  milk  as  will  mix 
it,  freeing  it  perfectly  from  lumps,  add  to  every  quart  of  milk  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  beat  them  thoroughly  through  the  batter,  and  add 
salt.  Boil  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  stir  the  batter  in  the  milk  very 
gradually,  while  off  the  fire  ;  stir  in  a  half-teacup  of  butter  just  before 
it  is  finished,  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes.  If  it  scorches  it  is  ruined. 
It  is  a  good  plan  to  butter  the  kettle  before  using  it.  Serve  with  sour, 
sweet,  or  wine  sauce,  cream  and  sugar,  or  maple  syrup.  It  is  good 
for  nothing  if  it  stands  after  boiling.  If  every  thing  is  ready  it  can  be 
made  just  as  the  dinner  is  served.  The  sauce  should  be  made  before 
the  pudding. 

Mush,  or.  Hasty  Pudding,  of  Indian  Meal. — Good  mush  can- 
not be  made  of  poor  meal.  Yellow  corn  is  the  best,  not  ground  so 
fine  as  to  kill  the  meal.  Sift  it,  and  make  a  batter  of  meal  and  water. 
Heat  water  boiling  hot,  and  gradually  stir  in  the  batter  until  just 
thick  enough  for  the  mush  to  hop  and  sputter  while  boiling  hard. 
Do  not  forget  the  salt.  Let  it  boil  two  hours  over  a  slow  fire,  it 
burns  easily,  and  is  spoiled  if  scorched.    It  is  best  when  hot ;  never 


148  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

add  meal  after  the  batter  is  all  in.  If  wanted  to  fry,  pour  it  in  a  deep 
earthen  dish  to  cool ;  in  the  morning  cut  it  in  slices  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick,  and  fry  in  lard,  or  pork  fat,  until  it  is  not  only  brown,  but 
crispy.  Maple  syrup  is  the  very  best  to  use  on  it,  if  made  fresh  from 
the  sugar. 

Baked  Indian  Padding. — Take  one  quart  of  milk,  dip  out  a  tea- 
cupful  and  scald  the  rest,  stir  five  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  meal  in  the 
hot  milk ;  add  salt,  nutmeg,  a  spoonful  of  ginger,  two  of  sugar,  half 
a  cup  of  molasses,  and  lastly  the  cup  of  cold  milk.  Bake  two  hours. 
Serve  with  butter  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven. 

Corn  Stargh  Pudding. — Heat  a  quart  of  milk,  and  when  boiling 
stir  in  three  table-spoonfuls  of  starch,  wet  with  milk  ;  add  salt,  sugar, 
two  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut,  nutmeg,  and  sugar 
to  suit  the  taste.     Bake  slowly,  and  serve  hot  with  liquid  sauce. 

Corn  Starch  Blanc-mange  without  Eggs. — Boil  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk  over  steam,  stir  into  it  gradually  five  table-spoonfuls  of 
starch  mixed  in  milk ;  add  salt,  and  only  two  large  spoonfuls  of  loaf 
sugar,  stir  until  thoroughly  cooked.  "WTien  done  take  it  from  the  fire, 
and  when  cooled  add  lemon  and  vanilla,  beat  it  well  together,  and  pour 
it  into  moulds.  If  used  for  pudding,  serve  with  jelly  or  fresh  fruit,  and 
whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  like  the  pudding. 

Mrs.  "W.'s  Sponge  Cake  Pudding. — Pulverize  a  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  and  mix  it  in  a  teacup  of  flour,  measured  after  sifting, 
sifting  the  flour  again  after  adding  the  tartar.  Mix  a  teacup  of  pul- 
verized loaf-sugar  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beat  until  very 
light,  then  add  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Stir  in  the  flour  as  quickly  as 
possible,  then  strain  in  the  pudding  a  half-teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  as  little  boiling  water  as  possible,  and  as  much  salt  as  would 
lie  on  a  three-cent  piece.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  with  Wine 
Sauce  Fo.  1. 

Mes.  F.'s  Bread  Pudding. — One  pound  of  bread  or  biscuit 
soaked  in  a  quart  of  new  milk  and  run  through  a  colander,  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  not  boiling  hot,  but  just  soft 
enough  to  flow,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  nice  sugar,  seven  beaten 
eggs,  a  little  salt,  one-fourth  of  a  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins, 
half  a  pint  of  milk.  Bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  middling 
oven. 


PUDDING    AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  149 

Apple  Dumpling,  No.  2. — Peel  tart  apples  free  from  blemishes^ 
take  out  the  core,  and  make  a  paste  according  to  No.  1.  Roll  the 
paste  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  roll  each  apple  in  it.  Tie  each 
in  a  separate  cloth,  and  put  them  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water ;  let  them 
boil  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  apple  is  tender.  If  baked,  follow  di- 
rections in  No.  2.  Serve  with  butter  and  sugar.  If  steamed,  omit 
the  extra  salt  in  the  paste.  {See  No.  1.)  We  consider  this  rule  the 
best  of  the  two,  though  the  cream  paste  may  be  more  healthy. 

Boiled  Batter  Pudding. — One  quart  of  new  milk,  eight  well- 
beaten  eggs,  one  pint  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  it  well  to  break 
all  lumps,  and  thoroughly  incorporate  the  ingredients.  Allow  one- 
third  of  the  bag  or  boiler  for  swelling.  Let  the  milk  and  flour  soak 
fifteen  minutes  before  adding  the  eggs.  The  pudding  should  be 
turned  over,  if  boiled  in  a  bag,  after  it  has  been  in  the  pot  ten  minutes. 
Puddings  should  be  put  in  boiling  water,  and  kept  steadily  boiling  for 
two  hours  if  ^arge.  Keep  a  tea-kettle  of  water  on,  to  replenish  the 
pot,  as  it  should  be  constantly  covered  with  water,  and  to  put  cold  in 
would  make  it  heavy.  Serve  with  rich  liquid  sauce.  It  should  be 
served  as  soon  as  boiled,  or  it  will  fall. 

Baked  Batter  Pudding. — One  quart  of  new  milk,  eight  well- 
beaten  eggs,  nine  large  spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  little  salt; 
mix  the  flour  in  a  stiff  paste,  and  work  out  the  lumps,  then  gradually 
mix  in  the  milk  and  let  it  swell  a  half-hour,  then  stir  in  the  beaten 
eggs,  and  thoroughly  incorporate  the  ingredients  by  quick  beating 
until  it  foams.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes  if  a  small  pud- 
ding, and  thirty  if  large ;  serve  as  soon  as  baked,  or  it  will  fall.  A 
nice  liquid  sauce,  or  butter  and  sugar  worked  to  a  cream,  are  either 
proper. 

Cream  Pudding,  No.  1. — One  pint  and  three  gills  of  new  milk, 
and  nine  table-spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour ;  mix  it  in  a  batter  free  from 
lumps,  and  let  it  stand  a  half-hour  to  swell ;  then  add  nine  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  a  little  salt ;  it  should  taste  of  the  salt.  Beat  until  very 
light,  and  then  stir  in  a  gill  of  sweet  cream  not  richer  than  what 
would  rise  on  a  good  cow's  morning's  milk  by  noon  ;  bake  quickly, 
and  serve  a&  soon  as  baked.  It  will  take  about  half  an  hour  for  a 
good-sized  pudding ;  serve  with  a  rich  liquid  sauce. 

Cream  Pudding,  No.  2. — Beat  six  eggs  to  a  froth,  mix  a  pint  of 
milk  with  a  pint  of  flour  and  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  just 
before  baking  stir  in  a  pint  of  sweet  cream. 


150  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Ceeam  Pudding,  No.  3. — Mix  a  pint  of  flour  in  a  half-pint  of  new 
milk,  add  salt,  let  it  swell  fifteen  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  beat  seven 
eggs  very  light,  the  yolks  and  whites  separately ;  mix  in  half  a  pint 
of  new  milk,  first  the  yolks  and  beat  them  well,  afterwards  the  whites, 
and  beat  it  again ;  then  stir  in  the  milk  and  flour,  and  lastly  a  pint 
of  rich  cream. 

Ceeam  Pudding,  No.  4. — Make  as  above,  adding  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  and  a  little  nutmeg ;  serve  with  wine  sauce- 
It  should  be  served  as  soon  as  baked,  as  well  as  all  other  flour  batter 
puddings,  as  they  fall  immediately  on  being  taken  from  the  oven. 


FANCY  DESSERTS  FOR  DINNERS,  ETC. 

Floating  Islands. — Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  fourteen 
eggs,  cook  them  by  spoonfuls  on  boiling  milk  until  they  can  be  lifted 
with  a  fork,  skim  them  out,  and  let  th  e  milk  drain  from  them ;  beat 
the  yolks,  and  stir  them  into  two  quarts  of  the  milk  when  a  little 
cool ;  add  sugar  to  the  taste,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  as  much  loaf-sugar 
as  suits  the  taste.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  only  thicken ;  it  should  be  about 
as  thick  as  morning's  cream  at  noon ;  pour  the  custard  into  a  deep  dish 
and  lay  the  whites  on  the  top,  sift  on  a  little  red  sugar  sand,  and  nut- 
meg or  not,  as  desired. 

Boiled  Custaed. — Heat  a  quart  of  milk  over  hot  water,  beat  four 
eggs  with  sugar  as  light  as  possible,  stir  them  in  the  milk ;  when  a 
little  cooled,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  set  it  over  the  fire  and  stir  it  until  it 
thickens— it  should  be  as  thick  as  cream  only ;  flavor  to  suit ;  pour  in 
cups  while  hot. 

Thickened  Custaed. — Prepare  a  boiled  custard  as  for  floating 
islands,  and  stir  the  whites  in  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  fire ;  it  should 
cook  but  not  toughen  them ;  flavor  to  suit. 

Baked  Custaed. — Beat  eight  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  with  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  loaf-sugar ;  as  fast  as  the  foam  rises  on  the  eggs, 
skim  it  off  into  a  quart  of  cream ;  when  nearly  all  is  in,  strain  the  re- 
mainder into  it,  add  a  little  salt,  and  bake  until  it  is  just  solid. 

Custaed  and  Whey. — Beat  six  eggs  with  sugar  and  add  them  to 
a  quart  of  milk,  bake  hard  until  the  custard  separates ;  pour  it  into 
cups,  and  serve  warm. 


PUDDING    AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  151 

Cream  Custard. — One  quart  of  sweet  cream,  one  half-teaspoon ful 
of  salt,  four  eggs  beat  as  light  as  possible  and  strained  into  the  cream. 
Do  not  beat  the  cream,  but  merely  mix  the  egg  in  it,  stirring  lightly. 
Bake  until  solid,  but  do  not  scorch  ;  a  nice  way  is  to  set  cups  in  hot 
water  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  or  on  the  stove  until  the  custard  is  solid ; 
but  in  this  case  it  had  better  be  allowed  to  thicken  over  hot  water 
before  putting  it  in  the  cups ;  flavor  to  suit. 

Whipped  Cream. — Sweeten  rich  cream  to  suit  the  taste,  put  it  in 
a  bowl,  and  stir  it  quickly  with  a  beater  until  the  whole  is  stiff;  when 
much  is  wanted,  it  will  be  found  the  least  trouble  to  prepare  a  jar 
with  a  dasher,  and  churn  it  until  stiff,  but  care  must  be  taken  that  it 
does  not  separate. 

Prepare  a  cream  in  the  following  manner  :  beat  light  six  eggs,  add 
the  froth  to  a  quart  of  cream  until  all  or  nearly  all  is  beat  up,  then 
strain  the  remainder  and  add  that,  beat  it  well  and  sweeten  to  the 
taste,  after  which  add  one  gill  of  French  brandy  or  two  of  wine,  mix 
it  all  together,  and  till  the  glasses  half  full  and  pile  the  cream  on  the 
top. 

Syllabubs  and  Whips. — One  quart  of  sweet  cream,  a  half-pint  of 
white  wine,  and  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar ; 
beat  the  mixture  with  a  whisk,  and  take  off  the  cream  as  fast  as  it 
rises,  and  lay  it  on  a  thin  muslin  over  a  sieve ;  when  all  is  whisked  that 
will  froth,  and  the  froth  is  drained,  add  to  the  remainder  what  has 
drained  from  the  whips,  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  and  half  fill  the 
glasses,  laying  the  froth  on  the  top. 

Strawberry  Whips. — Beat  cream  as  described  in  whipped  cream. 
Sweeten  and  strain  strawberry  juice,  fill  the  glasses  half  full,  and  pile 
up  the  cream ;  lay  on  each  glass  a  large  strawberry.  This  is  a  beau- 
tiful country  dessert. 

Jelly  Flummery. — Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  sweeten  to  taste ; 
mix  with  the  egg  any  jelly  desired,  and  beat  it  well ;  make  a  thin 
boiled  custard  or  a  syllabub,  and  partly  fill  a  deep  glass  dish  with  it, 
and  lay  the  egg  on  the  top ;  or  have  two  dishes,  one  for  the  float,  and 
another  for  the  custard  or  syllabub. 

Vanilla  Flummery. — Make  a  thin  boiled  custard  with  the  yolks 
of  well-beaten  eggs,  flavor  with  vanula ;  beat  the  whites  stiff,  mix  in 
sugar  and  vanilla ;  line  a  deep  glass  dish  with  sponge  cake,  dipped 
as  quickly  in  wine  and  out  as  possible,  pour  over  the  cream  and  lay 


152  •  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

the  egg  on  the  top  ;  put  a  drop  of  jelly  on  each  bit  of  egg.    This  is  a 
dinner  dessert. 

Cocoa  Whips. — Beat  sweet  cream  until  solid ;  have  grated  the 
white  part  of  a  cocoa-nut,  mix  it  with  pulverized  sugar ;  take  a  pint 
of  thin  cream  or  rich  milk,  heat  it  boiling  hot,  have  ready  two  beaten 
eggs,  take  it  from  the  fire  and  stir  them  in  the  hot  milk,  when  cool 
stir  in  the  milk  from  the  nut,  fill  the  glasses  half  full  and  set  them  to 
cool ;  when  cold,  mix  the  cocoa  and  whipped  cream  together  and  lay 
it  on  the  top. 

Cocoa  Flummery. — Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  grate  the  white 
part  of  a  cocoa-nut,  mix  the  nut  and  egg  together,  sweeten  to  the 
taste ;  prepare  a  boiled  custard,  pour  it  over  sponge  cake,  and  lay  the 
egg  and  cocoa  on  the  top. 

Jelly  and  Whips. — Fill  glasses  one-third  full  of  jelly  and  fill  up 
with  whipped  cream,  flavored  to  suit  the  taste. 

A  Charlotte  Russe,  No.  3 — Prepare  a  rich  boiled  custard  with 
half  a  pint  of  rich  new  milk  and  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  flavor 
with  vanilla ;  dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  half  a  pint  of 
water ;  when  both  have  cooled,  mix  them  well  and  add  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  loaf-sugar.  Then  take  half  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar  in  lumps,  and  rub  on  them  the  yellow  rind  of  two  lemons, 
strain  the  juice,  and  mix  it  with  two  wine-glasses  of  sherry,  and  one 
of  brandy,  pour  it  over  the  sugar,  and  when  dissolved  mix  it  with  a 
quart  of  rich  cream,  whisk  it,  and  add  the  froth  to  the  custard,  stir  it 
very  hard  constantly  while  adding  the  froth,  and  beat  it  well  after  it 
is  all  in.  Have  ready  a  sufficient  number  of  small  sponge  cakes,  or 
one  large  one  to  hold  the  custard ;  take  out  neatly  all  the  inside  of 
the  cake,  and  fill  it  with  the  custard ;  set  it  on  ice  until  cool,  then  ice 
it  with  a  frosting  made  in  the  usual  manner,  flavored  with  lemon ; 
ornament  it  while  soft  with  strawberries  without  jamming,  white 
grapes,  or  in  any  other  way  fancy  may  dictate ;  keep  it  cool  until 
wanted  for  the  table.  This  is  a  beautiful  as  well  as  excellent  flum- 
mery or  trifle,  is  proper  for  evening  parties,  etc.  The  bits  that  come 
from  the  centre  can  be  soaked  in  cold  custard  beat  up  together,  and 
the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  flavored  with  jelly  laid  over  it,  and  served 
for  the  family  at  dinner  as  dessert ;  any  old  dry  cake  can  be  used  in 
the  same  manner. 

Isinglass  Blanc-Mange. — Dissolve  shred  isinglass  in  the  proportion 


PUDDING    AND    DINNER    DESSERTS.  153 

of  one  ounce  to  the  quart  in  new  milk ;  if  in  the  winter,  you  can  add 
another  pint  of  milk ;  melt  it  over  boiling  water,  constantly  stirring  it ; 
when  dissolved,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  lemon  or  bitter  almond,  add 
sugar  to  the  taste,  and  as  much  salt  as  will  lie  on  a  three-cent  piece, 
and  no  more :  let  it  boil  five  or  six  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Dip 
the  moulds  into  cold  water,  strain  in  the  blanc-mange,  stir  until  thick- 
ened, and  set  it  on  ice  until  needed  for  use. 

Snow  Ceeam. — Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beat  in 
powdered  loaf-sugar  to  suit  the  taste,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet 
wine,  and  a  trifle  of  nutmeg ;  beat  well,  then  add  a  pint  of  sweet, 
thick  cream,  beat  stiff;  serve  with  sweetmeats  or  ripe  fruit. 

Obange  Cream. — Peel  nice  oranges  and  slice  them,  lay  them  on 
a  hair  sieve  to  drain  ;  when  all  the  juice  has  run  off  that  will  without 
pressing,  lay  the  fruit  in  a  deep  dish  and  sugar  it.  Beat  sweet  cream 
stiff,  sweeten  and  flavor  with  the  orange  juice,  and  serve  with  the 
fruit ;  the  juice  must  be  added  just  before  serving,  or  the  cream  will 
curdle.  Strawberries,  raspberries,  or  any  sweetish  fruit  can  be  pre- 
pared in  the  same  manner ;  sour  fruits  would  curdle  the  cream. 

Fruit  Puddings.— See  Part  V.  Chapters  L  II.  III.  IY.  Y.  YI. 


CHAPTER   IX. 

PASTEY  AND  PIES. 

Kemaeks  on  Puff  Paste. — The  flour  must  be  white  and  cold,  the 
butter  sweet,  the  rolling  board  or  marble  slab  even,  the  rolling  pin 
of  equal  thickness  with  handles,  the  water  ice  cold,  the  mixing  room 
cold,  the  person  who  makes  it  must  be  able  to  move  with  rapidity, 
and  the  oven  should  bake  quickly  without  burning. 

To  Peepaee  foe  making  Puff  Paste. — Sift  all  the  flour  needed, 
and  set  it  on  the  table,  wash  the  butter,  press  it  in  a  coarse  towel  to 
remove  all  the  water  and  buttermilk,  and  lay  it  on  ice.  Put  a  lump 
of  washed  ice  in  a  pitcher  of  water.  Get  the  plates  ready,  dust  them 
with  flour,  and  then  wipe  off  nearly  all  of  it.  Now  decide  the  amount 
of  paste  wanted,  measure  the  flour,  and  weigh  the  butter.  If  tarts 
7* 


154         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

are  to  be  made,  have  the  filling  ready.    If  meat  pies,  let  the  meats  be 
cooling,  while  the  paste  is  being  made. 

Plain  Paste. — This  is  a  proper  paste  for  apple,  cherry,  rhubarb, 
whortleberry,  peach,  plum,  or  any  other  fruit  pie  which  has  a  top 
and  bottom  crust.  Measure  one  quart  of  flour,  allow  a  little  for 
rolling.  Weigh  five  ounces  of  butter,  after  it  is  pressed  and  cooled 
on  the  ice.  Cut  the  butter  quickly  in  thin  slices,  not  over  one-fourth 
of  an  inch  square,  and  as  thin  as  possible ;  into  the  flour,  with  the  fore- 
finger, stir  the  butter  and  flour  together  without  incorporating  them ; 
now  wet  it  with  sufficient  ice  water  to  moisten  the  paste,  stir  it  with 
one  finger,  leaving  it  a  rough  mass  of  flour,  butter,  and  water,  mingled 
but  not  united ;  dredge  the  paste-board  with  considerable  flour,  take  up 
a  handful  of  rough  dough,  place  it  on  the  board,  dust  it  over  with  flour, 
roll  it,  quickly  but  lightly,  as  thin  as  it  is  possible,  and  allow  the  paste 
to  be  lifted  without  breaking ;  roll  it  over  the  pin  and  lay  it  on  the  plate 
without  handling ;  press  it  lightly  in  place,  and  cut  the  edges  with  a 
sharp  knife,  use  the  cuttings  and  a  portion  more  of  the  paste  for 
the  under  crust  of  the  next  pie,  and  so  on  until  all  the  plates  are 
covered ;  then  use  fresh  dough,  taking  as  little  as  will  cover  the  pie  for 
the  top  crusts ;  fill  the  pies,  cover  and  bake  quickly  without  brown- 
ing. {See  Part  V.  Chap.  I.  Apple  Pie,  Chap.  IT.  Peach,  and  Chap. 
V.  Cheery  Pies.)  Paste  managed  in  this  way  will  be  nearly  as  flaky 
as  puff  paste,  and  not  too  rich  for  health.  Lard  is  not  as  healthy 
or  as  good  for  pie-crust  as  sweet  butter,  but  those  who  prefer  it  for 
the  sake  of  economy,  can  substitute  lard  for  butter,  or  what  is 
better,  use  half  lard  and  half  butter.  If  lard  is  used,  don't  forget 
the  salt. 

Pumpkin  or  Custard  Pie  Paste. — Take  four  ounces  of  butter  to  a 
quart  of  flour,  rub  them  well  together,  but  do  it  quickly,  wet  it  with 
cold  water,  and  incorporate  it  into  one  mass.  The  paste  for  pumpkin 
and  custard  pies  needs  to  be  firm,  not  flaky,  to  hold  the  contents  of 
the  pies. 

To  Make  a  STice  Puff  Paste. — "Weigh  one  pound  of  flour,  and 
one  pound  of  worked  butter,  freed  from  water  as  already  directed. 
Reserve  half  a  teacup  of  the  flour,  make  the  flour  into  a  stiff  paste 
with  ice-cold  water.  Eoll  it  out  thin  four  times  with  a  light  brisk 
movement,  without  handling  the  dough.  Divide  the  butter  in  four 
parts,  and  each  part  again  in  four  parts,  leaving  them  in  one-ounce 
parts.     The  dough  should  be  left  spread  on  the  board  when  rolled  out 


PASTRY   AND   PIES.  155 

the  fourth  time ;  now  with  a  knife  spread  on  one  ounce  of  the  butter, 
fold  over  the  paste  and  roll  lightly,  without  breaking  through  to  the 
butter ;  fold  again,  and  roll  as  before,  and  again ;  the  third  time  leave  the 
paste  spread  on  the  board,  and  add  another  ounce  in  the  same  manner, 
and  so  continue  until  the  sixteen  ounces  are  all  rolled  in,  giving  the 
paste  fifty-two  turns,  including  the  four  before  the  butter  was  added. 
This  seems  a  hard  job  to  undertake,  but  as  the  dough  rolls  easier  each 
time,  it  is  soon  done.    For  a  common  puff  paste  use  half  the  butter,  and 
turn  twenty-eight  times.    This  will  cover  a  large  quantity  of  pies,  or 
make  as  many  tarts  as  would  be  wanted  for  a  large  party.    In  our  fam- 
ily, we  divide  the  paste  when  one-half  of  the  butter  is  used,  in  which 
case  four  ounces  less  butter  is  needed.     Roll  into  one  part  four  ounces, 
half  an  ounce  at  each  fourth  turn,  and  no  more  in  the  other.     When 
all  the  butter  is  in,  roll  up  the  paste  and  cut  from  the  ends  of  the  roll  to 
form  into  tarts.     That  part  which  has  only  the  half  of  the  butter,  we 
use  for  the  under  crust  to  tarts  and  mince  pies,  and  cover  the  top  with 
the  richer ;  when  this  is  done,  put  half  an  ounce  into  each  turn,  that  the 
paste  may  have  the  proper  amount  of  turns.     Use  the  reserved  flour  to 
dredge  the  board  and  flour  the  pin,  but  work  no  more  flour  into  the 
paste.    Remarlcs. — This  paste  cannot  be  made  in  warm  weather,  unless 
rolled  in  a  refrigerating  room ;  neither  can  it  be  made  in  a  hot  kitchen  in 
winter ;  the  cook  should  be  brisk  enough  to  keep  her  blood  circulating, 
and  she  may  stand  on  a  heated  plank  or  soapstone  while  making  it. 
For  tarts  place  four  layers  of  the  paste  rolled  as  thin  as  paper,  first 
the  bottom,  then  three  rings,  place  them  on  paper,  on  dripping  pans, 
and  set  them  in  the  cold  air  a  few  moments  after  they  are  ready, 
have  the  oven  of  a  quick  but  not  deep  heat,  and  protect  the  tops  with 
paper.     If  the  oven  inclines  to  burn  on  the  bottom,  either  put  two 
thicknesses  of  paper  under  them  or  raise  the  pan  with  brick.     For  tart 
pies,  cover  the  bottom  of  the  plate  with  the  poorest  paste,  or  make  a 
good  plain  paste  for  that  purpose,  and  roll  the  three  layers  so  thin 
that  the  board  can  be  seen  through  the  paste,  the  thinner  the  better. 
Out  the  strips  of  even  width,  and  lay  them  on  neatly.    For  mince  pies 
use  two  layers  only,  as  thin  as  possible.     For  oyster  pies,   the 
poorest  paste  is  rich  enough,  for  all  but  the  layers.     For  chicken  pie, 
use  a  plain  paste  under,  and  the  best  for  the  layers  and  covering.    For 
meat  pies,  the  poorest  of  the  puff  paste  is  good  enough  for  the  top 
and  layers,   and  the   plain  paste  for  the  bottom.      For  common 
use,  the  plain  paste  is  as  good  as  is  necessary  for  top,  bottom,  and 
layers. 


156  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Feench  Puff  Paste. — To  one  pound  of  flour,  take  one  pound  of 
butter  washed  free  from  salt,  and  pressed  in  a  cloth  to  extract  the 
water ;  make  the  butter  in  a  square  cake,  and  lay  it  on  ice.  Mix  the 
flour  into  a  pretty  stiff  but  not  hard  paste,  roll  it  out  four  times, 
make  it  into  a  square  lump  and  roll  it  ont.  Cool  the  paste  by  placing 
the  paste-board  in  a  cold  place,  now  lay  the  butter  in  the  centre  of 
the  paste,  fold  over  the  paste,  and  roll  it  gently  without  breaking 
through  to  the  butter ;  when  rolled  as  thin  as  possible  without  break- 
ing through  to  the  butter,  fold  it  in  three,  dust  the  board  and  roller, 
and  roll  the  paste  again  to  its  utmost  extent ;  repeat  this,  then  set  it  to 
cool  fifteen  minntes  ;  then  fold  it  in  three  folds,  roll  again  and  again, 
let  it  cool  fifteen  minutes  again,  and  roll  it  the  fifth  and  sixth,  which 
is  the  last  time.  If  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter  is  used,  fold 
and  roll  it  five  times.  If  half  a  pound,  fold  and  give  the  paste  three 
turns,  in  the  same  manner  as  directed  for  one  pound.  -The  butter 
must  not  be  too  hard  at  first,  but  abont  the  same  temperature  as  the 
paste.  If  too  hard  it  will  break  through  the  paste  while  rolling, 
which  must  be  avoided. 

Dumpling  Paste. — Make  dumpling  paste  as  directed  to  make 
paste  for  pumpkin  and  custard  pies,  allowing  three  ounces  of  butter 
to  the  quart  of  flour. 

Pumpkin  Pies. — Select  fine  sweet  pumpkin,  stew  it  slowly  until 
reduced  to  paste  with  no  standing  juice.  Pass  it  through  a  colander, 
and  thin  it  with  milk  to  the  consistency  of  batter ;  add  to  a  six-quart 
pan  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste,  ginger,  and  if 
relished,  nutmeg.  If  pumpkin  is  plenty,  use  no  eggs ;  if  not,  three  may 
be  used  to  the  pan,  and  milk  added ;  a  little  thin  cream  is  ah  addition. 
Cover  the  plate  to  the  edge  with  the  paste,  pack  it  to  the  rim  of  the 
plate,  and  prick  it  two  or  three  times  with  a  needle  or  pin,  then  bake 
the  crust,  and  while  it  is  baking  roll  out  a  piece  of  dough,  measuring 
in  diameter  as  much  as  a  small  finger,  and  long  enough  to  reach  around 
the  plate ;  when  the  crust  has  cooled,  lay  this  roll  around  the  edge  of 
the  plate ;  pinch  it  or  leave  it  round,  according  to  fancy ;  fill  the  paste 
or  shell  with  the  pumpkin,  and  bake  it  in  a  hot  oven,  without  burning 
or  blistering.  In  filling  the  shell  be  careful  not  to  drop  any  of  the 
pumpkin  on  the  edge. 

Custaed  Pies. — Prepare  two  shells  as  described  for  a  pumpkin 
pie,  beat  four  eggs  without  separating,  and  add  the  foam,  as  fast  as  it 
rises,  to  one  quart  of  rich  new  milk,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  a  salt-spoon 


PASTRY    AND    PIES.  157 

of  salt,  and  fill  the  shells  after  the  bottom  crtist  has  baked,  etc.  Bako 
until  the  custard  is  solid  ;  serve  cold — a  hot  cnstard  is  a  poor  pie ; 
flavor,  if  desired,  with  nutmeg,  vanilla,  bitter  almond,  or  lemon.  Use 
the  same  day  baked. 

Cream  Pee. — This  is  baked  like  a  cnstard,  but  to  be  very  nice,  the 
edge  of  the  plate  should  be  layered  with  puff  paste ;  make  a  custard 
of  thin  cream  instead  of  milk,  and  bake  it  as  a  custard.  It  must  be 
eaten  the  same  day  it  is  baked. 

Raspberry  Pies  with  Covers. — Cover  the  plate  with  the  plain 
paste,  fill  the  shell  with  raspberries,  add  sugar,  butter,  and  a  little 
flour,  cover  the  pie,  cut  a  slit  in  the  centre,  and  bake  gently  until 
quite  done.  Send  it  to  the  table  when  warm,  it  is  not  as  good  the 
second  day.    The  sealed  fruit  is  used  in  the  same  manner. 

"Whortleberry  Pies. — After  the  plate  is  covered,  spread  in  the 
whortleberries,  add  a  little  citric  or  tartaric  acid,  dissolved  in  a  table- 
spoon of  water,  sprinkle  over  sugar,  add  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as 
a  teaspoon,  and  flour  to  thicken  the  juice.  Cover  the  pie,  cut  a  slit  in 
the  middle  of  the  top  crust,  and  bake  gently.  Use  the  day  it  is  baked, 
if  possible.     Use  the  can  fruit  in  the  same  manner. 

Blackberry  Pie. — Make  a  blackberry  pie  exactly  like  a  whortle- 
berry, adding  one  gill  of  water,  instead  of  a  table-spoonful.  Serve 
the  day  it  is  baked,  barely  cold.  Make  the  hermetically-sealed  fruit 
in  the  same  manner. 

Green  Currants. — Those  preserved  for  winter  make  better  pies 
than  fresh  currants — they  part  with  the  flavor  of  the  leaves  which 
they  have  when  fresh,  which  is  a  great  improvement.  Pill  the  pies 
with  currants ;  when  baked,  take  off  the  top  crust,  and  add  sugar, 
butter,  a  little  flour,  and  a  piece  of  soda  as  large  as  a  pea ;  mix  the 
ingredients  together,  and  set  the  pie  in  the  oven  five  minutes  with  the 
door  down.  The  pies  made  from  the  hermetically-sealed  currants, 
are  sugared  and  seasoned  before  baking.  Use  all  the  water  in  fruits 
preserved  for  pies.  Use  no  soda  in  the  preserved  frait ;  they  will  re- 
quire less  sugar  than  pies  of  the  fresh  fruit. 

Plain  Gooseberry  Pies. — Stew  gooseberries,  add  sugar,  break  the 
fruit,  and  put  them  in  the  pie  ;  add  a  little  butter  and  flour,  and  bake 
until  the  paste  is  done.  Make  the  hermetically-sealed  fruit  pies  in 
the  same  manner. 


158  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Gooseberry  Tarts. — For  directions  to  cover  the  plates,  or  make 
the  shells  for  small  tarts,  see  Puff  Paste  ;  stew  the  berries  with  sugar 
until  they  look  clear,  then  pass  them  through  a  colander,  and  fill  the 
shells  for  the  tarts ;  after  they  are  baked,  the  fruit  may  be  covered 
with  the  whites  of  egg  beat  stiff,  and  mixed  with  sugar,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  one  egg  to  two  ounces ;  beat  half  an  hour  briskly,  and 
cover  the'  centre  of  the  tarts,  and  place  them  in  the  oven  until  slightly 
browned.    Prepare  the  sealed  fruit  in  the  same  manner. 

Rhubarb  Pies. — If  the  skin  is  tender  do  not  peel  it ;  if  not,  remove 
the  skin,  cut  the  stalks  in  small  bits,  and  place  them  in  the  pie,  add 
a  salt-spoon  of  soda  and  a  little  flour.  When  the  paste  is  done,  re- 
move the  top  crust  and  add  sugar  and  butter ;  mash  the  rhubarb  fine, 
and  incorporate  the  sugar^  butter,  and  fruit  perfectly.  Put  the  top 
crust  on  the  pie,  and  serve  warm.  If  nutmeg  is  relished,  grate  over 
the  top  of  the  fruit  a  little  before  putting  on  the  crust,  but  do  not 
mix  it  through  the  pie.  Ehubarb  may  be  put  up  in  the  spring  for 
winter  use  in  bottles,  as  directed  in  plums. 

Cranberry  Pie. — This  may  be  made  exactly  like  a  gooseberry  pie. 

Cranberry  Tarts. — Make  them  like  a  gooseberry  tart.  Cran- 
berries are  very  nice  stewed  and  made  in  an  open  pie  without 
straining. 

Lemon  Pee. — The  proportions  are  two  lemons,  four  eggs,  two 
table-spoons  of  melted  butter,  ten  table-spoons  of  loaf-sugar.  Grate 
the  yellow  rind  of  the  lemon,  beat  together  the  rind,  juice,  sugar,  and 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  until  very  light.  Prepare  a  large  tart  pie,  fill 
the  pie  with  the  mixture  before  baking  the  paste,  and  bake  until  the 
paste  is  done.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  and  stir  into  them  little  by  little 
one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  spread  it  over  the  top,  and  bake  a 
light  brown.  Cranberry,  strawberry,  or  any  juicy  fruit  can  be  pre- 
pared in  exactly  the  same  manner,  and  will  be  found  superior. 

Strawberry  Pie  or  Short  Cake. — See  Part  III.  Chap.  X.  Make 
a  nice  short  cake ;  while  hot,  split  it  as  many  times  as  possible,  and 
spread  each  layer  with  butter,  strawberries,  and  sugar,  put  on  the 
top  crust,  wet  it  over  with  egg,  sift  over  sugar,  and  serve  hot.  Rasp- 
berries, blackberries,  and  whortleberries  can  be  used  in  the  same 
manner. 

Minoe  Pies.— One  part  of  beef  suet  finely  chopped  and  freed  from 


PASTRY   AND    PIES.  159 

6kin  to  two  of  lean  chopped  beef,  and  four  of  sour  chopped  apples. 
Mix  the  suet  and  beef  together,  and  rub  salt  through  it,  then  add  the 
apples  and  mix  thoroughly,  add  sugar,  sweet  cider,  a  little  nice  syrup, 
raisins,  currants,  cinnamon,  mace,  a  few  cloves.  "Work  all  together, 
and  let  the  mince  remain  until  morning — then  taste ;  if  not  sufficiently 
spiced,  add  more,  but  be  careful  not  to  overspice  with  cloves ;  add 
sugar  and  cider  if  needed ;  if  too  much  seasoned,  chop  more  suet,  meat, 
and  apple,  and  add  to  the  mince.  If  properly  made  in  December 
and  kept  cool,  it  will  keep  three  months.  Sugar  and  cider  must  be 
added  to  the  quantity  used  at  each  baking,  stir  up  the  whole  once 
each  week,  and  cover  it  tightly,  to  prevent  mice  or  insects  from 
troubling  it.  Currant  wine  is  excellent  in  mince  pies.  Cover  a  plate 
with  good  plain  paste  or  half-turned  puff  paste,  (see  Puff  Paste,)  fit 
three  layers  of  the  best  puff  paste  to  the  edge  of  the  plate  one  and  a 
half  inch  wide,  fill  the  pies  even  with  the  layers,  put  in  each  four 
pieces  of  butter  the  size  of  hazlenuts,  add  a  little  nutmeg,  dredge 
with  flour,  and  cover  with  thin  puff  paste ;  bake  rather  quick  without 
browning  the  paste.  A  mince  pie  should  be  juicy,  rich,  sweet,  the 
spices  well  balanced,  and,  to  be  perfect,  should  be  two  weeks  old 
before  cut ;  they  are  better  one  month  old,  if  kept  where  they  will  not 
mould.  Always  warm,  not  heat,  mince  pies,  before  sending  them  to 
the  table. 

Feuit  Pies.— See  Part  V.  Chapters  I.  II.  IV.  Y.  VI. 


CHAPTER   X. 

YEAST,   BEEAD,   BISCUIT,   ETC. 

Remaeks, — In  order  to  make  good  bread,  the  cook  must  be  fur- 
nished with  good  flour  from  sound  wheat,  white  and  dry;  fresh 
yeast,  a  good  oven,  and  strength  to  knead  the  dough.  If  a  poor 
barrel  of  flour  is  sent,  return  it ;  flour  is  usually  warranted,  and  the 
only  extra  expense  will  be  in  the  drayage  of  the  barrel  or  sack,  to 
and  from  the  mill  or  flour  store.  To  know  the  state  of  yeast,  either 
brewer's  or  homemade,  before  making  bread,  is  very  important.  If 
the  yeast  is  lifeless  or  partially  so,  it  will  not  raise  bread  to  a  proper 
lightness.  Bread  that  is  a  long  time  rising,  will  be  either  heavy, 
sour,  or  very  dark  colored.    Stir  in  a  little  yeast,  flour  to  make  a 


160  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

batter ;  if  brewer's,  it  will  rise  in  tbree  minutes,  if  quite  fresh  and 
of  sufficient  strength.  Homemade  yeast  will  take  from  five  to  ten 
minutes,  according  to  its  strength.  Brewer's  yeast,  when  very  bitter, 
is  improved  by  washing  in  cold  water;  the  lively  part  settling  to 
the  bottom,  and  the  bitter  part  mingling  with  the  water,  which  is 
drained  off  from  the  yeast.  It  may  need  washing  several  times, 
especially  if  it  is  the  yeast  from  lager  beer.  Yeast,  from  strong  beer, 
is  usually  in  a  fit  state  to  use  without  washing.  The  rule  for  using 
the  yeast  of  strong  beer,  is  a  teaspoonful  to  one  loaf  of  bread.  For 
homemade  yeast,  a  tablespoonful  if  not  too  bitter.  For  dried  yeast, 
a  tablespoonful  to  a  loaf  is  about  the  proper  proportion.  If  a  brick 
oven  is  used,  it  should  be  nearly  hot  before  bread  raised  with  brewer's 
yeast  is.  mixed ;  but  for  baking  with  homemade  yeast,  make  the  fire 
when  the  bread  first  shows  signs  of  rising  in  the  mixing  pan,  which 
ought  to  be  from  five  to  ten  minutes  after  mixing. 

To  Make  Beead  with  Hop  Yeast. — Sift  into  the  bread-pan  three 
quarts  of  flour.  Having  tried  the  yeast,  take  three  tablespoonfuls. 
Dissolve  a  piece  of  soda,  as  large  as  a  green  pea,  in  half  a  pint 
of  warm  water,  and  stir  in  the  yeast ;  make  a  hole  in  the  centre  of 
the  flour ;  mix  the  yeast  and  half  a  pint  of  warm  water  into  a  batter 
in  the  centre  of  the  pan,  and  cover  the  batter  with  flour.  Set  the 
pan  where  it  will  keep  about  blood  heat ;  when  it  commences  to  rise, 
the  flour  will  rise  and  form  cracks ;  and  when  the  batter  or  sponge 
breaks  over  the  flour,  jt  is  fit  to  mix ;  if  it  remains  too  long  it  will 
sour.  "When  the  sponge  shows  signs  of  being  soon  ready,  warm  one 
quart  of  sweet  milk  and  half  a  pint  of  water  to  a  little  more  than 
blood  heat ;  dissolve  in  the  milk  and  water  as  much  soda  as  was  used 
at  first,  unless  the  sponge  is  soured,  when  more  will  be  needed ;  add 
the  wetting  gradually  to  the  flour  and  sponge,  mixing  it  well  together ; 
rub  the  dough  from  the  hands  with  the  flour;  dredge  the  paste-board 
with  flour  reserved  from  that  measured ;  turn  out  the  dough  ;  rub  the 
pan  entirely  clean  with  some  of  the  flour,  add  the  cleanings  of  the  pan 
to  the  dough,  and  knead  all  together.  Kneading  is  best  performed  by 
doubling  the  hand,  and  pressing  the  knuckles  in  the  dough  with  all  the 
strength  of  the  arm ;  it  should  be  performed  with  a  quick  shoving  move- 
ment, and  as  quickly  as  possible ;  work  the  dough  until  it  cleaves  from 
the  hand  without  sticking  in  the  least  to  the  hand  when  entirely  free 
from  flour;  make  it  up  in  a  large  smooth  lump ;  flour  the  bread-pan, 
put  back  the  dough,  dredge  the  dough  with  reserved  flour,  warm  the 
bread  cloth,  cover  the  pan,  and  set  it  where  the  dough  will  keep  a  blood 


YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  161 

heat.  Now  arrange  the  wood  in  the  oven,  take  twelve  long  sticks  of 
dry  bass,  or  some  other  light  wood,  lay  them  across  each  other,  keep- 
ing them  near  the  centre  of  the  oven,  and  put  light  kindlings  near  the 
mouth.  When  the  dough  has  a  puffy  appearance,  light  the  fire,  and  let 
it  burn  slowly ;  some  ovens  will  heat  with  one  dozen  sticks  of  bass 
wood,  and  others  take  more ;  the  cook  will  learn  to  manage  her  own 
oven  after  heating  it  a  few  times.  Watch  the  bread ;  when  light,  take 
the  pan  to  the  table ;  if  there  is  danger  of  the  bread  being  light  too 
soon  for  the  oven,  knead  it  down  thoroughly,  and  let  it  stand  where 
it  will  not  chill  or  be  very  warm ;  if  the  oven  is  in  the  right  state  for 
the  bread  to  be  put  into  loaves,  the  wood  will  be  mostly  reduced  to 
large  brands,  and  the  roof  of  the  oven  will  have  burned  white.  Make 
the  dough  into  three  loaves ;  set  it  where  it  will  keep  warm,  and 
cover  it  with  the  bread  blanket.  Now  stir  the  coals  over  the  oven,  so 
that  it  will  heat  regularly ;  when  the  brands  cease  to  blaze  and  smoke, 
shut  the  iron  door  of  the  oven  until  the  bread  is  nearly  ready.  Then 
clear  the  oven,  sweep  it  with  a  damp  broom  free  from  ashes,  throw 
in  a  little  flour ;  if  it  burns  immediately,  the  floor  is  too  hot ;  hold  in 
your  hand,  count  twenty  seconds ;  if  you  can  do  this,  the  oven  is  of  the 
right  heat ;  and  if  the  flour  browns,  instead  of  burning,  the  floor  is  also 
of  the  proper  heat.  If  too  hot,  swab  the  floor  with  a  wet  broom  until 
it  is  the  proper  heat ;  put  in  the  bread,  examine  it  in  five,  ten,  and 
again  in  fifteen  minutes ;  if  baking  too  fast,  leave  down  the  door ;  if 
too  slow,  add  coals  to  the  mouth  of  the  oven  ;  if  baking  right,  give  it 
forty -five  minutes'  time,  then  take  it  out,  and  turn  out  the  bread.  If 
the  crust  is  rather  hard,  dampen  it  very  slightly ;  wrap  it  in  the  bread- 
towel,  and  let  it  steam  until  cold.  When  entirely  cold,  put  it  in  the 
bread-box,  but  not  while  the  least  warm.  Although  we  give  an  exact 
measurement  of  wetting  for  bread,  it  will  not  always  make  bread  of 
the  proper  consistency;  some  kinds  of  wheat  make  flour  which 
takes  up  more  fluid  than  others.  The  bakers  know  this,  and  for  this 
reason  select  the  red  winter  wheat  for  making  bread.  Bread  to  be 
of  the  right  consistency,  should  be  as  soft  as  it  is  possible  to  knead ;  at 
first,  soft  dough  will  be  sticky,  and  trouble  the  uninitiated  cook ;  but 
she  will  soon  learn  to  manage  her  bread-pan  dexterously,  when  her 
labors  will  be  much  lightened.  When  a  new  barrel  of  flour  is  first 
baked  from,  measure  the  wetting  accurately,  and  the  proportion 
proper  for  the  future  bakings  while  that  flour  lasts  will  be  ascertained. 
When  milk  cannot  be  obtained,  add  to  three  pints  of  water  a  bit  of 
sweet  butter,  as  large  as  the  bowl  of  a  teaspoon.  The  crust  of  bread 
is  improved  by  oiling  the  top  of  the  loaf,  before  putting  it  in  the 


162 

oven,  with  very  little  sweet  butter.     Grease  bread-pans  with  sweet 
butter,  or  fresh  pork  fat.     Eancid  grease  will  ruin  the  bottom  crust. 

Bread  Kaised  with  Beewee's  Yeast. — Sift  into  the  bread-pan 
three  quarts  of  flour,  and  reserve  half  a  pint.  Warm  the  flour  by 
setting  it  in  the  stove  oven  a  few  moments,  but  do  not  let  it  scorch  or 
become  hot.  Heat  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water,  allowing  one  pint 
of  wetting  for  one  quart  of  flour.  Dissolve  in  the  wetting  a  salt- 
spoon  of  soda.  If  no  milk  is  used,  omit  the  soda.  "When  the  wet- 
ting is  a  little  more  than  blood-heat,  but  not  hot  enough  to  scald  flour 
or  yeast,  take  it  from  the  fire.  Having  tried  the  yeast,  and  found  it 
good,  take  three  teaspoons  of  the  yeast  from  strong  beer,  or  four  from 
lager  bier,  (after  it  is  washed  nearly  free  from  its  bitter  properties ;)  mix 
it  in  the  wetting,  and  add  it  to  the  flour.  Knead  the  bread  briskly ; 
rub  some  of  the  reserved  flour  on  the  pan ;  roll  off  all  the  dough,  and 
rub  your  hands  the  same  way.  Continue  to  knead  the  bread  until  it 
can  be  handled,  and  cut  without  adhering  to  the  knife,  paste-board, 
or  hands.  Kub  over  three  common  sized  bread-pans  with  sweet 
butter,  or  fresh  lard.  If  the  paper  or  rag  with  which  the  pan  was 
rubbed  is  at  all  discolored,  rub  off"  the  butter  entirely  with  a  clean 
cloth,  and  grease  the  pans  over.  Cut  the  dough  in  three  equal  parts ; 
knead  each  part  briskly  for  several  minutes,  and  put  them  in  the 
pans.  Run  the  point  of  a  knife  blade  through  the  centre  of  each 
loaf  until  it  touches  the  pans ;  press  the  loaf  in  shape ;  set  them 
where  they  will  have  equal  heat ;  cover  with  the  bread-blanket,  and 
let  it  rise.  Keep  a  little  watch  of  the  bread,  and  as  soon  as  it  appears 
puffy,  clear  the  oven.  When  the  oven  is  properly  tempered,  the  floor 
will  brown  flour,  and  you  can  hold  your  hand  in  the  centre  twenty 
seconds.  By  this  time  the  bread  should  be  light.  If  too  light,  it 
will  dry  very  soon.  Oil  the  top  of  each  loaf  with  a  trifle  of  sweet 
butter,  and  place  it  in  the  oven.  After  five  minutes  look  in  the 
oven  ;  if  too  hot,  leave  down  the  door  one  minute.  In  ten  minutes 
look  at  the  bread  again ;  and  examine,  lastly,  when  the  bread  has  been 
in  the  oven  fifteen  minutes.  It  will  take  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to 
bake,  if  the  oven  was  a  proper  heat  from  the  first.  Bread,  baked  in 
a  brick  oven,  is  much  better  than  that  baked  in  a  stove  oven.  If  the 
bread  is  baked  in  the  stove,  the  cook  can  easily  determine  when  it  is 
done.  If  the  oven  is  regular,  bread  will  bake  in  from  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes  less  time  than  in  a  brick  oven,  where  the  heat  is  constantly 
decreasing.     If  the  yeast  is  good,  it  will  rise  in  half  an  hour. 

Gbaham  Bee  ad. — Graham  flour.    The  wheat  must  be  of  the  best 


YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  163 

quality,  and  either  run  through  a  smut  mill,  or  washed  and  dried  be- 
fore grinding.  It  should  be  ground  rather  coarser  than  common  flour, 
and  used  without  bolting.  It  takes  more  wetting  than  fine  flour.  For 
every  loaf  allow  three  large  table-spoons  of  molasses,  one  quart  of 
wetting,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  yeast  in  the  same  proportion  as  in  the 
two  preceding  rules.  Mix  the  yeast,  molasses,  and  salt,  in  the  wet- 
ting ;  add  a  half-teaspoon  of  soda,  and  mix  in  as  much  coarse  flour 
as  can  possibly  be  stirred  in  with  a  spoon.  Now  knead  the  bread 
briskly,  until  it  cleaves  from  the  hand.  If  made  with  brewer's  yeast, 
put  the  loaves  in  the  pan,  and  pat  it  in  place  and  shape.  If  made 
with  homemade  yeast,  sponge  the  bread  as  in  the  directions  for  spong- 
ing bread ;  and  add  the  molasses  and  other  wetting  after  the  sponge 
rises.  Knead  until  the  dough  cleaves  from  the  hands.  Set  it  in  a 
warm  place  until  it  rises ;  when  light,  knead  it  again  as  before,  and 
put  it  in  the  pans  to  rise.  Add  no  flour  after  the  first  mixing ;  the 
dough  will  not  be  stiff  enough  to  form  into  loaves ;  shape  the  loaves 
after  they  are  in  the  pan  with  the  hand. 

Beast  Yeast  Beead. — Just  before  retiring,  heat  a  quart  of  water 
hot,  but  not  scalding ;  stir  into  it  bran,  until  the  spoon  will  stand  up- 
right ;  be  careful  not  to  get  the  yeast  too  thick,  add  a  little  salt ; 
take  up  hot  ashes,  not  coals,  place  a  kettle  of  warm  water  on  the 
ashes,  and  the  yeast  in  the  water,  where  it  will  keep  warm  all  night. 
When  the  bran  rises  above  the  water,  it  is  light  and  fit  to  strain.  If 
not  light  in  the  morning,  put  the  yeast  in  warm  water  until  the  bran 
rises  to  the  surface.  Allow  for  each  quart  of  flour  a  pint  of  wetting, 
including  the  yeast ;  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  milk ; 
sponge  the  bread  with  milk  and  the  yeast,  mixing  in  the  centre 
of  the  pan  one-fourth  of  the  flour  to  a  batter,  and  let  it  rise.  As 
soon  as  light,  mix  the  sponge  and  milk  into  a  loaf,  knead  it  until 
the  dough  cleaves  from  the  hands,  and  put  it  into  the  pans  imme- 
diately. Let  it  rise  again,  and  bake  as  soon  as  light.  It  takes  less 
time  to  bake  than  other  bread,  and  requires  a  moderate  oven.  It 
will  not  remain  fresh  as  long  as  hop  yeast,  but  is  a  good  healthy 
bread.  It  will  resemble  hops  if  a  little  of  the  flavor  of  hops  is 
added  to  the  wetting,  and  can  be  made,  when  by  any  accident  the 
hop  yeast  has  either  frozen,  scalded,  or  been  in  some  other  manner 
spoiled. 

Biscuit  Kaised  with  Hop  Yeast. — Sift  into  a  pan  one  quart  of 
flour ;  warm  a  pint  of  milk  ;  make  a  sponge  with  one  half  the  milk, 


164  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

add  a  bit  of  soda  as  large  as  a  pea.  Stir  in  the  sponge  one  table- 
spoonful  of  good  homemade  yeast ;  cover  the  sponge  warm,  and  let 
it  rise.  When  the  sponge  breaks  over  the  flour,  add  the  milk,  in 
which  is  dissolved  a  piece  of  soda  as  large  as  a  pea,  and  a  salt-spoon 
of  fine  salt.  Knead  the  biscuit  until  it  feels  smooth,  and  cleaves  from 
the  hand,  and  let  it  rise ;  when  very  light,  but  not  sour,  take  the  pan  to 
the  table,  soften  two-thirds  of  a  teacup  of  sweet  butter,  and  work  it 
by  degrees  into  the  dough,  until  the  whole  is  thoroughly  incorporated 
with  it ;  then  knead,  until  the  dough  cleaves  from  the  hand.  If  there 
is  the  slightest  tendency  to  acidity,  dissolve  and  strain  a  little  soda, 
and  add  it  with  the  butter ;  probably  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon  will  be 
all  that  will  be  needed.  If  possible  to  knead  the  biscuit,  add  no  more 
flour,  and,  at  all  events,  as  little  as  possible.  Let  the  biscuit  rise 
again,  and  knead  it  once  more;  butter  the  pans,  (it  will  take  two 
common  bread-pans,)  make  the  biscuits  in  small  round  loaves,  turning 
in  the  dough  to  the  middle  of  the  biscuits.  When  finished,  before 
rising,  the  loaves  should  be  as  large  as  a  dollar  and  nearly  round ; 
place  them  in  the  pans ;  butter  each  biscuit  slightly  where  they  press 
each  other,  prick  them  entirely  through,  so  that  the  fork  will  touch 
the  pan  in  three  different  places,  cover  warm,  and  let  them  rise.  Ex- 
amine often,  and  do  not  allow  them  to  sour.  As  soon  as  light,  bake 
them  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  top  and  bottom  crusts  should 
neither  be  hard  baked  nor  moist.  "Wrap  them  in  a  towel  to  steam, 
if  the  crusts  are  baked  too  hard ;  if  not,  turn  them  up,  so  that  the 
bottom  crust  will  not  steam-soak.  If  not  to  be  used  warm,  do  not 
separate  them  until  entirely  cold. 

Brewer's  Yeast  Biscuits. — Sift  into  the  bread-pan  one  quart  of 
flour ;  melt  a  large  table-spoonful  of  cold  butter  in  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  dissolve  a  salt-spoon  of  salt,  and  as  much  soda  in  the  milk ;  re- 
serve a  handful  of  flour  to  knead  the  dough ;  cool  the  milk  to  blood 
heat,  and  stir  in  one  teaspoonful  of  brewer's  yeast  from  strong  beer 
or  two  of  washed  lager  beer;  knead  the  dough  fifteen  minutes  briskly, 
then  make  it  up  in  small  round  loaves  no  larger  than  a  half-dollar. 
Have  the  tins  well  buttered,  lay  in  the  biscuit,  dredge  them  with  flour 
where  they  join,  and  prick  them  several  times  through  to  the  pan,  let 
them  rise,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  as  soon  as  light.  Bake 
without  browning  till  thoroughly  done ;  do  not  separate  the  biscuit 
until  quite  cold,  unless  used  hot,  in  which  case  break  them  apart  just 
before  serving. 

Soda  and  Cream  op  Tartar  Biscuit,  No.  1.— Sift  one  teaspoon. 


YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  165 

of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  with  one  quart  of  flour  in  the 
bread-pan.  Out  in  bits  not  larger  than  a  three-cent  piece,  and  as 
thin  as  possible,  one  quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter ;  mix  quickly,  without 
rubbing  or  working  the  butter  with  the  other  ingredients.  Have 
ready  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  wet  up  the  biscuit  quickly,  roll  the  dough 
half  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  im- 
mediately in  a  brisk  oven. 

Sour  Cream  Biscuit. — Sift  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one  of  soda 
with  a  quart  of  flour  in  the  bread-pan ;  have  ready  a  large  pint  of 
sour  cream,  beat  one  egg}  add  it  to  the  cream,  mix,  roll,  cut,  and  bake 
the  biscuit  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Sour  Milk  Biscuit. — Sift  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  of  salt,  and  a 
quart  of  flour  in  a  pan ;  rub  into  the  flour  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  mix  quickly,  knead  briskly,  and  bake  as  soon  as  possible  in  a 
brisk  oven. 

Cream  of  Tartar  Biscuit,  !No.  2. — Sift  two  teaspoons  of  cream 
of  tartar,  one  of  soda,  and  one  quart  of  flour  in  a  pan;  mix  in  the 
flour  one-third  of  a  cup  of  butter  as  lightly  as  possible,  without  rub- 
bing the  butter  to  warm  it  in  the  least.  Mix  up  the  biscuit  with  a 
large  pint  of  water,  knead  briskly,  and  bake  quickly. 

Butteemilk  Bread.— "With  one  quart  of  buttermilk  mix  two 
quarts  of  flour,  and  two  even  teaspoons  of  soda ;  knead  well,  make 
the  dough  into  two  loaves,  let  it  rise  ten  minutes,  and  bake. 

French  Bread  of  Brewer's  Yeast. — Take  one  pint  of  milk,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  and  a  salt-spoon  of  salt ;  warm  the  milk  until  the 
butter  is  softened  ;  beat  three  eggs  light ;  mix  into  the  milk  one  pint 
of  flour,  add  a  teaspoon  of  strong  beer  yeast ;  let  it  stand  ten  min- 
utes, or  until  it  has  slightly  risen,  add  the  eggs,  and  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  knead  it  ten  minutes  briskly.  Roll  it  out  in 
strips,  and  either  braid  the  strips  or  make  larger  rolls  the  width  of 
the  pan  it  is  to  be  baked  in,  and  bake  when  light. 

French  Twist  Bread. — Take  one  quart  of  light  dough  raised  with 
homemade  yeast;  mix  in  it  a  large  table-spoon  of  sweet  butter,  a 
salt-spoon  of  salt,  and  one  egg ;  add  flour,  and  knead  well.  Let  it 
rise  until  light,  then  knead  very  gently ;  roll  the  dough  in  thin  strips, 
measuring  an  inch  in  diameter;  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and 
braid  loosely ;  let  it  stand  a  few  moments,  and  bake  quickly  without 
burning. 


166 

German  Steamed  Nefdles. — Three  gills  of  sweet  milk  made  into  a 
sponge  with  a  teaspoonful  of  brewer's  yeast,  or  a  table-spoon  of  fresh 
homemade,  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt ;  let  it  rise  until  quite  light,  then 
add  half  a  teacup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft  bis- 
cuit dough ;  knead  it  well ;  if  made  with  homemade  yeast,  let  it  rise  be- 
fore making  up  the  neudles ;  if  brewer's,  make  up  the  dough  as  soon 
as  mixed  in  small  balls,  the  size  of  half  a  small  egg.  Melt  in  a  deep 
spider  with  an  iron  or  close-fitting  tin  cover,  half  a  table-spoon  of 
sweet  butter ;  lay  the  neudles  in  the  spider,  and  let  them  rise ;  when 
quite  light,  fill  the  spider  half  full  of  boiling  water,  or  until  it  reaches 
to  about  the  middle  of  the  neudles ;  place  the  spider  over  a  steady  but 
not  too  brisk  fire,  and  steam  them  half  an  hour  without  lifting  the 
cover.  Be  sure  the  cakes  do  not  boil  dry  too  soon,  so  as  to  scorch 
the  bottom  crust.  When  quite  done,  the  water  should  be  evapor- 
ated, leaving  the  neudles  dry.  These  are  an  excellent  breakfast  cake, 
and  when  managed  properly,  are  as  light  as  a  sponge.    Serve  hot. 

Hop  Yeast. — Boil  four  potatoes ;  mash  them  fine,  mix  them  with 
one  pint  of  flour,  boil  a  pint  of  hops  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  five 
minutes,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  strain  the  hop  water  gradually  on  the 
flour  and  potatoes  while  it  is  boiling  hot,  so  as  to  scald  the  flour ;  beat 
it  well,  and  let  it  cool  to  blood-heat ;  then  add  one  teacup  of  good 
homemade  (not  brewer's)  yeast,  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda ;  beat  it 
well,  and  let  it  rise.  To  make  dry  yeast,  mix  in  this  yeast,  when 
about  two-thirds  light,  as  much  Indian  meal  as  can  be  dampeued 
with  the  yeast,  leaving  it  in  dry  crumbs ;  spread  it  thin  where  it  will 
dry  quickly  without  feeling  the  sun  or  stove  heat ;  it  dries  best  in 
the  wind.  To  make  yeast  cakes,  let  the  yeast  get  light,  but  no  more 
than  light ;  mix  up  the  dough  with  Indian  meal  in  a  round  long  roll, 
four  inches  in  diameter,  cut  off  the  cakes  as  soon  as  mixed,  without 
letting  it  rise,  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  dry  in  the  wind,  and  turn 
them  frequently  ;  when  quite  dry,  put  the  dried  yeast  or  cakes  in  a 
tight  paper  bag.  Be  sure  the  meal  is  sweet,  free  from  a  bitter  taste, 
and  made  from  sound  corn.  If  kept  dry,  it  will  last  months.  To  use  it, 
soak  the  cakes  or  crumbs  quite  soft,  mix  a  sponge,  add  a  little  soda, 
set  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  let  it  stand  until  morning ;  use  it  as  the 
sponge  of  home  yeast  bread  without  sponging  again.  If  hops  cannot 
be  had,  use  peach  leaves  for  making  homemade  yeast,  though  fresh 
hops  are  the  best. 

"Wheat  and  Indian  Bread. — Sift  into  a  pan  four  quarts  of  Indian 


YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  167 

meal,  have  ready  boiling  water  ;  stir  into  the  meal  boiling  water  until 
the  spoon  will  stand  nearly  upright  in  the  mush  ;  let  it  cool  to  blood- 
heat,  then  stir  into  the  meal  two  quarts  of  wheat  flour,  a  little  salt, 
and  a  small  teacup  of  fresh  homemade  hop  yeast ;  mix  well,  grease 
an  old-fashioned  bake  kettle,  and  put  in  the  bread ;  let  it  stand  until 
it  shows  signs  of  cracking,  then  set  the  bake  kettle  on  coals,  heat  the 
cover,  put  it  on  the  kettle,  and  cover  with  warm  ashes  ;  bake  gently 
three  or  four  hours.  Or,  what  is  much  better,  put  the  bread  in  a  large 
pan  ;  when  it  shows  signs  of  cracking,  put  it  in  a  brick  oven,  bake 
gently,  cover  the  top  with  paper  to  prevent  the  crust  becoming  hard, 
and  leave  the  bread  in  the  oven  all  night ;  or  bake  two  hours  in  a 
stove-oven,  cover  the  top  with  paper,  and  when  done,  close  the  damper 
and  let  the  bread  remain  in  the  oven  until  morning;  add  two 
table-spoons  of  molasses,  if  desired  very  sweet. 

Eye  and  Indian  Beead. — Sift  three  pints  of  rye  flour,  with  four 
quarts  of  Indian  meal ;  add  a  little  salt,  stir  in  boiling  water  until  the 
spoon  will  stand  upright ;  let  it  cool,  add  a  small  teacup  of  home  hop 
yeast  quite  fresh ;  let  it  rise  in  the  pan  in  which  it  is  to  beN  baked, 
until  it  shows  signs  of  cracking ;  then  bake  as  directed  in  the  above 
recipe. 

Pumpkin  Beead. — Pumpkin  bread  is  made  according  to  the  two 
preceding  recipes,  except  that  instead  of  using  flour  or  rye,  one  quart 
of  stewed  and  strained  pumpkin  is  used,  with  three  quarts  of  meal ; 
add  little  salt. 

Buns. — Take  three  teacups  of  light  dough  from  homemade  yeast 
bread,  mix  into  the  dough  three  teaspoons  of  melted  butter,  a 
little  salt,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  sugar,  three  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  half  a  teaspoon  of  dissolved  and  strained  soda;  mix  all  to- 
gether, and  add  flour  to  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to  knead;  knead 
well,  and  let  it  rise ;  when  light,  make  the  dough  up  in  rather  high 
cakes,  the  size  round  of  one  dollar ;  pack  them  closely  in  the  pan,  and 
dredge  lightly  with  flour  to  prevent  their  becoming  one  mass.  Bake 
as  soon  as  light,  and  when  done,  brush  over  the  top  with  yolk  of  egg 
and  sugar ;  do  not  separate  them  until  cold. 

Caeaway  Beead.— Take  one  quart  of  light  hop  yeast  raised 
dough,  mix  into  the  dough  a  table-spoonful  of  cold  butter,  half  an 
ounce  of  caraway,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  a  salt-spoon  of  soda,  and  one 
of  salt ;  work  the  ingredients  well  together,  add  flour  to  make  a  loaf, 


168  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

butter  a  pan,  put  in  the  dough,  and  let  it  rise ;  when  quite  light,  bake 
slowly  but  thoroughly ;  when  it  comes  from  the  oven,  wet  the  top 
crust  with  egg  and  sugar ;  when  cold,  cut  the  bread  in  slices.  It  is 
plain  and  excellent  food  for  children  ;  if  it  is  intended  for  young  chil- 
dren who  have  not  all  their  teeth,  grind  the  caraway-seed.  Caraway 
and  coriander  united  and  ground,  makes  an  excellent  spice  for  such 
breads. 

Eye  Bread. — Make  rye  bread  like  wheat,  but  be  careful  it  does 
not  sour ;  it  sours  more  readily  than  wheat  or  Indian ;  the  same  may 
be  said  of  oatmeal ;  Indian  sours  sooner  than  wheat  after  it  is  light. 

Eice  Bread. — Scald  thoroughly  one  pint  of  rice  flour,  add  to  it 
three  pints  of  wheat  flour,  and  sufficient  water  to  make  a  dough  ;  mix 
in  the  water  two  teaspoons  of  brewer's  yeast,  or  a  table-spoon  of 
homemade ;  let  the  bread  rise  in  the  pans  but  once,  if  made  with 
brewer's  yeast ;  but  if  of  homemade,  once  in  the  bread-pan,  and  again 
in  the  bake-pans ;  add  a  little  salt. 

Potato  Bread. — Sponge  wheat  flour  as  for  wheat  bread ;  while 
it  rises,  boil  one  large  potato  for  every  pint  of  flour  ;  mash  fine,  and 
pass  them  through  a  sieve ;  when  the  sponge  is  light,  mix  the  pota- 
toes with  the  sponge,  add  the  wetting  and  mix  up  the  bread,  knead 
well,  and  let  it  rise ;  when  light  make  up  the  loaves,  and  bake  when 
they  rise. 

Crumpets.— Half  a  pound  of  flour,  one  table-spoon  of  fresh  brewer's 
yeast,  a  salt-spoon  of  soda,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  sufficient  rich 
milk  to  form  a  fluid  paste ;  let  it  rise,  and  bake  like  pancakes. 

Hoe  Care. — Have  ready  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  mix  in  one 
quart  of  the  water  half  a  cup  of  sweet  butter  and  one  large  teaspoon 
of  soda ;  in  the  other  quart  dissolve  half  a  teaspoon  of  tartaric  acid ; 
sift  in  two  pans  a  pint  each  of  Indian  meal ;  stir  into  one  the  soda 
water  and  butter,  boiling  hot,  and  beat  it  ten  minutes  hard ;  in  the  other, 
stir  the  other  quart,  also  boiling,  beating  it  the  same  time.  If  the  meal 
does  not  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to  handle,  heat  it  and  add  more ; 
have  the  griddle  ready,  take  a  table-spoonful  of  each  of  the  mixtures 
in  the  hand,  work  it  together  quickly,  form  it  in  square  cakes,  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  four  inches  square,  and  brown  them  on 
the  griddle  ;  serve  hot. 

Indian  Muffins. — Take  one  quart  of  sweet  yellow  corn  meal,  add 


YEAST,    BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  169 

a  teaspoon  of  salt,  have  ready  one  quart  of  boiling  milk ;  mix  the 
meal  to  a  stiff  dough,  add  nearly  a  cup  of  sweet  butter  merely  warmed 
and  a  little  soda ;  beat  the  mixture  hard  fifteen  minutes.  While  the 
cakes  are  making,  have  six  eggs  beat  separately  till  very  light,  add  them 
gradually  to  the  muffins,  and  heat  them  hard  five  minutes ;  the  dough 
should  be  thin  enough  to  beat  well ;  heat  the  dripping  pan  and  mufiin 
rings,  grease  them,  fill  the  rings  full,  and  bake  thoroughly  until  done ; 
serve  with  maple  syrup.    These  are  excellent,  if  well  beaten. 

Milk  Rising  Bread. — Take  one  cup  of  milk,  one  of  water,  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  flour  to  make  a  batter ;  keep  it  warm  until  light, 
then  warm  milk,  and  mix  the  rising  and  milk  with  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough ;  knead  it  thoroughly,  put  it  into  the  pans,  and 
bake  as  soon  as  light.  Milk  rising  managed  in  this  manner,  has  no 
offensive  odor. 

Mrs.  P.'s  Crackers. — When  the  above  dough  is  light  add  to  one 
quart  a  small  teacup  of  butter ;  work  it  well  and  pound  in  all  the 
flour  possible ;  beat  the  crackers  until  the  dough  feels  smooth  as 
glass ;  then  break  off  small  lumps ;  roll  very  thin,  and  bake  a  long 
time  without  browning.  The  crackers  should  be  about  as  large  as  a 
dollar.    Prick  them  several  times  before  baking. 


CHAPTER  XI 

CAKES. 


Remares  ox  Molasses  Cakes. — Cakes  that  depend  on  molasses 
for  lightness,  should  be  made  of  real  West  India  molasses ;  syrup  will 
not  do.  They  should  be  put  in  the  oven  immediately  after  adding 
the  soda ;  bake  in  a  quick  but  not  over  hot  oven,  without  burning, 
until  well  done ;  they  must  be  used  fresh,  unless  made  hard,  when 
they  will  keep  some  time ;  if  shortened  with  lard,  don't  forget  the 
salt ;  pork  fat  is  better  than  lard,  and  is  equal  to  butter  for  spiced 
molasses  cakes ;  alum  is  an  addition ;  when  used,  more  soda  is  needed  ; 
spice  with  ginger  and  cinnamon  ;  if  used  warm,  break  instead  of  cut- 
ting ;  bake  in  shallow  pans,  the  more  surface  the  better,  most  persons 
preferring  the  crust.  Warm  gingerbread  with  sauce  makes  a  good 
dinner  dessert. 
8 


170 


ENCYCLOPEDIA. 


Gingeebeead,  No.  1. — One  cup  of  melted  (not  heated)  butter  or 
lard ;  if  the  latter,  add  salt,  stirred  into  two  cups  of  molasses,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  and  a  teaspoon  of  cinnamon ;  sift  the  flour,  and 
stir  in  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter,  dissolve  a  piece  of  alum  as 
large  as  a  kidney  bean  in  half  a  cup  of  water,  and  stir  it  in,  then  add 
as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  thick  enough  to  nearly  roil  on  the  board ; 
have  the  pans  greased  and  the  oven  hot,  then  stir  in  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  mix  it 
well  and  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  put  it  immediately  in  the  oven ; 
use  it  while  fresh  ;  after  it  is  put  in  the  pans,  slash  the  cake  as 
bakers  do  theirs,  and  when  it  comes  from  the  oven,  wet  it  over  with 
syrup. 

Gingeecake,  No.  2. — One  cup  of  melted  butter,  two  of  molasses, 
one  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,— if  the  molasses  is  quite  acid 
a  half  spoon  more  than  this  will  be  needed, — three  eggs,  five  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  and  a  spoonful  of  ginger  and  cinnamon;  dissolve  the 
soda  and  stir  it  in  last,  and  bake  in  an  oven  with  steady  heat  imme- 
diately.   No  cake  burns  as  easily  ^as  molasses  cake. 

Gingeecaees,  No.  3. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
half  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  ginger  and  cinnamon  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  lastly,  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  soda. 

Supeeioe  Gingeebeead,  No.  4. — Stir  until  light,  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  the  same  of  sugar ;  then  add  half  a  pint  of 
West  India  molasses  (not  syrup)  ;  beat  four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir 
them  in  the  cake ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  ground  cinnamon ;  beat  well  and  mix  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sifted 
flour ;  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  hot  water,  and  strain  it  in  the 
last  moment  before  putting  in  the  oven.  No  cake  requires  more  care 
in  baking  than  molasses  cakes ;  they  require  a  brisk  oven,  but  burn 
very  easily,  and  if  burned,  are  entirely  spoiled.     Use  while  fresh. 

Mes.  L.'s  Gingeebeead,  No.  5. — Mix  together  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
and  half  a  cup  of  sugar  ;  melt  half  a  cup  of  lard, 'in  one  of  "West  India 
molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  five  cups  of  flour,  a  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  and  a  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  strained  in  the  cake. 

Hard  Gingerbeead,  No.  6. — Three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  shortening, 
one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  hot  water,  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  table-spoon  of  ginger,  a  bit  of  alum  as  large  as  a  hazel- 


CAKES.  171 

nut  dissolved  in  the  water ;  a  dessert  spoon  of  soda,  sifted  with  a 
coffee-cup  of  flour  ;  mix  the  ingredients,  and  half  flour,  enough,  with- 
out soda,  to  make  it  stiff ;  then  work  in  quickly  the  cup  of  flour,  in 
which  the  soda  is  mixed ;  it  must  Dot  he  quite  stiff  enough  to  roll 
out ;  put  it  in  square  pans,  pat  it  smooth,  and  mark  it  in  strips. 

Mrs.  W.'s  Gingerbread,  No.  7. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar, 
half  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  ginger 
to  the  taste,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  hatter ;  hake  as  soon  as  mixed. 

Hard  Gingerbread,  No.  8. — Melt  butter  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg, 
and  mix  it  in  a  pint  of  West  India  molasses  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, and  a  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  then  mix  in  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter ;  dissolve  a  small  piece  of  alum,  and  mix  in  ;  then  add  a 
table-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  strained, 
work  it  in  well,  and  quickly,  stirring  in,  at  the  same  time,  more  flour, 
until  it  can  be  rolled  out  easily  ;  roll  it  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and 
cut  it  in  squares ;  bake  quickly  on  flat  tins  well  buttered  ;  it  is  soon 
dry.     None  but  West  India  molasses  will  do  for  this. 

Mrs.  F.'s  Soft  Gingerbread,  No.  9. — One  cup  of  sour  milk,  four 
eggs,  four  cups  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water, 
and  strained.     Put  the  ingredients  together  like  cup  cake. 

Gingersnaps. — One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  the  same  of 
lard,  mixed  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  pint  of  West 
India  molasses,  ginger  according  to  its  strength,  and  cinnamon  accord- 
ing to  taste ;  add  one  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  wine-glass  of  milk  and  flour,  to  enable  you  to  roll  it  thin.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Soft  Gingerbread,  No.  10. — Melted  butter  half  a  coffee-cup, 
molasses  two  coffee-cups,  one  egg,  one  table-spoon  of  ginger,  one 
coffee-cup  of  sour  milk,  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  soda,  added  the  last 
thing  before  baking,  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.    Bake  quickly. 

To  Beat  Eggs. — Separate  the  yolks  very  carefully ;  put  both  whites 
and  yolks  in  shallow  earthen  pans,  or  platters ;  beat  in  long  strokes 
from  one  end  of  the  dish  to  the  other,  with  long  wooden  rods  made 
quite  light;  never  move  the  elbow,  but  keep  it  pressed  to  the  side, 
moving  only  hand  and  wrist.  Eggs  beat  more  quickly  that  have  been 
laid  two  or  three  days,  than  those  laid  the  same  day.    A  three  tined 


172  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

fork  where  no  rods  are  to  be  had  is  better  than  spoon,  or  knife. 
When  the  whites  are  perfectly  beat,  they  will  remain  on  an  inverted 
dish  without  slipping ;  they  sometimes  go  back  and  should  be  used 
as  soon  as  ready.  The  yolks  when  perfectly  beaten  are  light,  with  no 
stringy  appearance ;  it  takes  as  long,  if  not  longer,  to  beat  them  as 
whites.  The  lightness  of  the  cake  depends  almost  entirely  on  the 
whites ;  the  yolks  enrich  it. 

To  Prepare  for  Cake-baking. — Sift  a  pan  of  flour,  if  butter  is 
too  salt,  wash  and  squeeze  it  in  a  cloth ;  if  spice  is  wanted,  grind  it ; 
if  fruit,  prepare  it ;  if  currants,  wash  them  thoroughly  and  dry  them ; 
if  soda,  measure  and  dissolve  it ;  if  cream  of  tartar,  mash  it ;  if  sugar 
is  lumpy,  roll  it ;  if  milk  is  to  be  used,  measure  it ;  if  extracts,  have 
them  ready ;  if  eggs,  wash  them,  and  see  that  they  are  fresh ;  if  a 
brick  oven  is  to  be  heated,  have  ash-wood  ready,  and  the  oven  nearly 
hot  before  commencing ;  if  the  stove-oven,  see  that  the  fire  is  right  and 
damper  turned  as  it  should  be,  to  heat  the  oven  properly ;  see  that 
the  cake-pans  are  clean,  and  butter  them,  etc.  Never  put  in  cake 
half  an  ounce  over-weight  of  flour ;  the  best  cooks  advise  full-weight 
butter,  and  light-weight  of  flour  ;  sometimes  the  sugar  is  mixed  with 
flour  by  the  grocers ;  if  this  is  the  case,  the  cake  will  be  spoiled. 
Dissolve  a  little  and  see  if  it  is  pure  before  making  very  nice  cakes. 

Corn  Starch  Cup  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one 
of  milk,  one  of  corn  starch,  two  of  flour,  the  whites  of  seven  eggs 
beaten  stiff";  mix  in  the  flour  and  starch  two-thirds  of  a  teaspoon  of 
cream  of  tartar,  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda ;  put  together  like  bride's 
cake ;  bake  quickly. 

Bride's  Cake. — Mix  in  half  .a  pound  of  corn  starch,  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  and  one  of  cream  of  tartar,  pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve, 
stir  until  light  half  a  pound  of  best  powdered  loaf-sugar,  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  stiff,  add 
them  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  mix  in  the  starch  the  soda  and  tartar, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla  and  bitter  almond,  and  bake  quickly. 

Cream  Cake. — One  pint  of  very  rich  sweet  cream  if  convenient, 
if  not,  sour ;  old  cream  will  not  do ;  one  teacup  of  sugar,  four  well- 
beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter,  nearly 
as  stiff  as  it  can  be  stirred,  and  well  beaten  with  a  spoon ;  if  the 
cream  is  sour,  dissolve  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  hot  water, 
and  strain  in  the  cake ;  bake  as  soon  as  well  mixed  in  a  rather  quick 
oven ;  serve  hot ;  it  is  to  be  eaten  with  butter ;  bake  in  shallow  tins. 


CAKES.  173 

Very  Plain  Tea  Cake. — A  half  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar; 
work  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  four  beaten  eggs ;  three  tea- 
cups of  sifted  flour,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  and  strained, 
ground  coriander-seed,  and  lastly  a  teacup  of  sour  milk. 

Mrs.  F.'s  Pound  Cake,  No.  1. — One  pound  of  pulverized  loaf- 
sugar,  the  same  of  sweet  butter  worked  free  from  salt ;  beat  the 
sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream  with  the  hand ;  separate  and  beat  ten 
eggs  as  light  as  possible  ;  mix  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  and  butter, 
and  afterwards  the  whites  alternately,  with  one  pound  of  sifted  flour ; 
beat  well  and  bake  without  burning  in  round  basins.  It  used  to  be 
thought  vulgar  to  use  pound  cake  when  fresh  ;  it  ought  to  be  three 
days  old  before  cutting  to  serve  with  fruit  cake  at  parties.  A  glass 
of  wine  improves  it.  Pound  cakes  should  never  be  flavored ;  it  is 
generally  mixed  with  other  cake,  and  if  spiced  there  is  too  little  dif- 
ference in  the  cakes. 

Pound  Cake,  No.  2. — One  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  butter, 
eight  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beat  separately,  and  one  pound  of 
flour.    Mix  as  No.  1. 

Carolina  Cake. — Two  coffee-cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  of 
cream,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs, 
beat  stiff ;  if  the  cream  is  sour,  use  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  add  two 
coffee-cups  of  flour,  mix  quickly,  and  bake  as  soon  as  mixed ;  flavor 
to  suit  the  taste.    Put  together  like  white  cake. 

"White  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  beat  to  a  cream 
the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  beat  stiff  three  cups  of  flour  mixed  in  the 
cake,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved,  and  strained  into  the 
cake,  and  lastly  a  cup  of  sour  cream*;  bake  immediately. 

Boston  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter 
stirred  together,  three  eggs  beat  lightly,  one  glass  of  wine,  half  a  pint 
of  milk,  mixed  with  the  wine,  and  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  sifted 
with  a  pound  of  flour ;  bake  in  rather  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  F.'s  Cup  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  and  three  of  sugar,  work- 
ed to  cream,  a  half  wine-glass  of  wine,  five  eggs  beat  separately,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  sifted  with  five  cups  of  sifted  flour,  a  little  <nutmeg, 
and  lastly  a  cup  of  sour  cream  ;  bake  in  round  tins,  in  a  moderately 
quick, oven;  fruit  may  be  added  if  desired;  frost  while  the  cake  is 
warm,  and  it  will  keep  some  time  without  becoming  stale.  This  cake 
is  rich  enough  for  any  company. 


174         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

"White  Cup  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter  and  two  of  white  sugar 
beat  to  a  cream  ;  beat  five  eggs  as  lightly  as  possible,  and  stir  them  in 
the  cake,  stir  in  four  teacups  of  sifted  flour,  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg, 
dissolve  a  ver y  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  as -little  hot  water  as 
possible,  and  strain  in  the  cake,  stir  it  in,  and  add  lastly  a  teacup  of 
sour  cream,  stirred  in  as  quickly  and  lightly  as  possible ;  bake  imme- 
diately. 

Delicate  Cake,  No.  1. — One  pound  pulverized  loaf-sugar,  and  one 
pound  of  sweet  butter  free  from  salt  and  water,  worked  with  the 
sugar  to  a  light  cream ;  one  teaspoonful  extract  of  lemon,  and  the  same 
of  vanilla,  the  whites  of  twenty  eggs  beat  stiff,  and  lastly  one  pound 
of  flour  stirred  in  lightly ;  bake  immediately  in  round  pans,  and  frost 
it  before  cold ;  the  frosting,  if  flavored,  should  have  the  same  extracts 
as  the  cake ;  it  should  not  be  cut  fresh. 

Delicate  Cake,  No.  2. — Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one 
pound  of  pulverized  loaf  sugar,  the  whites  of  sixteen  eggs  beat  stiff, 
and  one  pound  of  flour.    Put  together  as  No.  1. 

Soda  Delicate,  No.  3. — One  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  the  whites  of  sixteen  eggs  put  together  as  in  No.  1, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  and  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  with  a  pound  of  flour.  Add  the 
soda  and  cream  Just  before  baking.  Bake  as  soon  as  possible,  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Delicate  Cup  Cake,  No.  4. — One  cup  of  butter,  three  of  loaf- 
sugar  pulverized,  the  whites  of  ten  eggs,  five  cups  of  flour,  in  which 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  have  been  mixed  and  sifted.  The 
flour  must  always  be  sifted  before  measuring ;  and  then  again,  after 
the  tartar  is  in,  and  lastly,  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  it  and  strained.  This  can  be  varied  by  mixing 
through  it  a  few  currants.  Delicate  cake  is  now  the  fashionable  cake 
for  bride's  loaves  at  weddings.  The  richest  should  be  used  for  that 
purpose. 

*  Eich  Soda  Cake,  No.  1. — One  pound  of  pulverized  loaf  sugar, 
mixed  with  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter.  The  beaten 
whites  of  fourteen  eggs,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
sifted  with  a  pound  of  flour,  and  lastly,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  half  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk  and  strained.  Bake  im- 
mediately. 


CAKES. 


175 


Yellow  Soda  Cake,  No.  2. — One  pound  of  sugar,  a  half-pound  of 
butter.  Mix  them  together,  then  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  fourteen 
eggs  after  which  mix  gradually  one  pound  of  flour,  in  which  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  have  been  mixed  before  sifting;  and  lastly, 
a  teacup  of  sweet  cream,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dis- 
solved ;  strain  the  cream  for  fear  of  lumps  of  soda,  and  stir  lightly. 
Bake  immediately  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 

Soda  Cake,  No.  3. — One  cup  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar,  two  and  a 
half  table-spoonfuls  of  melted,  not  heated,  butter.  Mix  these  well, 
then  add  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk  in  which  is  dissolved  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  soda,  strained  in  the  cake.  Beat  two  eggs  and  mix  them  in 
the  cake.  Beat  hard  until  all  the  ingredients  are  well  incorporated. 
Measure  a  pint  of  flour,  stir  half  in  the  cake,  mix  in  the  remainder 
one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  pass  it  through  a  sugar  sieve ;  be 
sure  the  oven  is  ready  and  the  pans  buttered.  Grate  in  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  lastly,  stir  in  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  as  quickly  as 
possible ;  when  well  mixed,  pour  it  into  the  pans  and  bake  immediate- 
ly.    Use  the  same  day  it  is  baked,  as  it  is  very  poor  when  old. 

Soda  Cake,  No.  4. — Mix  together  thoroughly  half  a  teacup  of 
butter,  and  two  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  and  beat  well.  The  whites  should  be  beaten  sepa- 
rately and  added.  Mix  in  three  teacups  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cream  of  tartar  mashed  fine,  and  passed  with  the  flour  through  a 
sieve ;  stir  it  in  Lhe  cake,  and  lastly,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  half  a  teacup  of  milk  and  strained.  Flavoring  to  suit. 
Bake  immediately  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Convenient  Sponge  Cake,  No.  5. — Take  a  common  bowl  for  the 
measure,  fill  it  within  an  inch  and  a  quarter  of  the  top  with  pow- 
dered loaf-sugar,  beat  nine  eggs  well  without  separating,  add  a  little 
salt,  measure  a  trifle  more  flour  than  sugar,  and  bake  as  soon  as 
mixed.  Flavor  as  you  choose.  This  is  a  good  common  cake  to 
eat  soon. 

Sponge  Cake,  No.  1. — One  pound  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar,  twelve 
eggs,  and  half  a  pound  of  flour.  Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites 
and  put  them  in  the  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  separately,  as  stiff  as 
possible,  while  another  person  beats  with  the  hand  the  yolks  and 
sugar ;  add  the  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  what  flavoring  is  to  be  used, 
and  bake  immediately. 


176  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Mes.  F.'s  Sponge  Cake,  No.  2. — One  pound  of  pulverized  loaf- 
sugar,  ten  eggs,  and  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  flour.  Mix  as  No  1. 
When  the  cake  is  in  the  pan,  sift  a  little  pulverized  loaf-sugar  over 
the  top  before  baking,  and  cover  the  cake  with  white  paper  to  keep 
the  crust  from  scorching.  Sponge  cake  being  rather  tasteless,  re- 
quires flavoring.  Lemon,  vanilla,  bitter  almonds,  or  equal  parts  of 
coriander  and  caraway  seed  ground  and  sifted,  can  be  used.  This 
variety  of  cakes  bakes  quickly,  but  the  oven  must  not  be  hot  enough 
to  scorch. 

Excellent  Soda  Sponge  Cake,  No.  3. — Half  a  teacup  of  butter, 
two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  and  four  eggs.  Mix  the  butter  and 
sugar,  then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  afterwards 
the  whites.  Mix  one  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour,  and 
pass  it  through  the  sieve ;  stir  it  in  the  cake,  and  lastly,  dissolve  a 
half-spoonful  of  soda  in  half  a  cup  of  milk,  and  strain  it  in  the  cake* 
Mix  quickly,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  quick  oven  without  scorch' 
ing.  This  cake  should  be  used  fresh,  and  but  little  baked  at  once, 
It  can  be  flavored  as  desired,  though  not  needing  extracts  as  much  as 
sponge  cakes  without  butter,  having  a  much  more  decided  taste. 

Aeeoweoot  Sponge  Cake,  No.  4. — Separate  and  beat  twelve 
eggs,  they  should  have  been  laid  just  three  days.  Add  to  the  yolks 
gradually  one  pound  best  pulverized  sugar,  beat  half  an  hour,  then 
add  gradually  the  whites,  beating  another  half-hour.  Add  the  juice 
of  one  large  lemon,  the  flavor  of  the  skin  should  have  been  rubbed  on 
the  sugar.  Now  make  the  bake-pan  ready,  line  it  with  buttered  paper 
sides  and  bottom,  then  add  gradually,  stirring  lightly,  half  a  pound 
sifted  arrowroot.    Sift  pulverized  sugar  over  the  top. 

Ladles'  Flngers. — Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  lightly  as  possible ; 
beat  the  yolks  the  same,  add  to  the  whites,  little  by  little,  half  a 
pound  of  best  pulverized  sugar ;  have  the  yolks  beating  all  the  time, 
when  the  eggs  have  been  beaten  one  hour,  mix  them  very  gradually, 
by  using  the  top  of  the  yolks,  until  the  whole  is  added.  Squeeze  in 
half  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  add  gradually,  beating  lightly,  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  arrowroot  or  flour,  (the  arrowroot  is  the  best.) 
Have  ready  buttered  paper,  spread  the  batter  in  small  oval  cakes,  join- 
ing in  the  middle  to  represent  the  joint  of  a  finger.  Bake  quickly, 
and  leave  the  cakes  on  the  paper  until  wanted.  For  parties  frost 
them. 


CAKES.  177 

German  Ladies'  Fingers. — Beat  one  hour  the  yolks  of  five  eggs 
Trith  half  a  pound  of  sugar;  add  half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds 
pounded  fine,  the  yellow  part  of  one  lemon  grated.  Mix  well,  add 
half  a  pound  of  flour  very  gradually  Roll  out  the  paste,  and  cut  it  in 
strips  the  length  and  size  of  the  fore-finger ;  beat  lightly  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  and  wet  the  fingers. 

German  Pepper  Nuts. — Half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  and  three 
eggs,  beat  together  half  an  hour.  Pound  two  ounces  of  blanched 
almonds  very  fine,  chop  an  ounce  of  citron  as  fine  as  possible,  grate 
in  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon,  add  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  teaspoon  of  black  pepper,  half  a  teaspoon  of  cloves,  and  seven 
and  a  half  ounces  of  flour.  Measure  and  shape  the  dough  in  a  tea- 
spoon, and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    They  are  very  nice. 

German  Cornucopia  Cakes. — Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to 
snow,  add  gradually  one  pound  loaf-sugar,  and  beat  one  hour.  Mix  in 
half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds  pounded  fine,  with  the  white  of 
an  egg,"  to  prevent  their  oiling ;  add  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon ; 
grease  the  paper  with  butter,  put  for  each  oake  a  heaping  spoon  of 
the  mixture,  and  spread  it  round  until  it  is  as  large  as  the  top  of  a  half- 
pint  tumbler ;  as  soon  as  they  are  baked  a  light  brown  take  them  up, 
and  while  soft  roll  them  in  the  shape  of  a  cornucopia.  Sift  over  them 
sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed. 

Clay  Cake. — Stir  together  until  light  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
one  of  best  loaf-sugar.  Mix  in  one  pound  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of 
tartar,  dissolve  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  add  to 
the  butter  and  sugar  the  yolks  of  six  well-beaten  eggs,  mix  well ;  add 
the  beaten  whites,  mix  in  the  flour,  and  lastly  strain  in  the  milk  and 
soda,  and  bake  quickly. 

White  Mountain  Cake. — Bake  the  above  as  you  would  for  a  jelly 
cake,  spread  between  each  cake  icing  beaten  one  hour,  flavored 
with  lemon-juice,  vanilla,  or  bitter  almond,  and  ice  the  last  cake  over 
the  top. 

Mrs.  F.1s  Fruit  Cup  Cake. — One  cup  of  sweet  butter,  and  three 
of  nice  sugar  worked  to  a  cream,  five  well-beaten  eggs,  the  yolks,  and 
afterward  the  whites,  a  glass  of  brandy  or  wine,  half  a  nutmeg,  half 
a  dozen  cloves,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon.  Pulverize  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  mix  it  in  five  cups  of  sifted  flour,  and  stir  the 
flour  in  the  cake.  Flour  one  pound  of  washed  currants,  and  mix 
8* 


178  HOUSEKEEPER  S  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 

tkeni  in,  and  afterward  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins  cut  once  and 
rubbed  in  flour ;  stir  it  well,  and  just  before  baking  add  a  cup  of 
sour  cream.  Do  not  beat  it  much  after  the  cream  is  in,  but  thor- 
oughly mix,  and  bake  immediately.  It  will  take  one  hour  to  bake. 
Frost  while  a  little  warm.  It  will  keep  fresh  some  time.  Do  not 
cut  it  the  day  it  is  baked.    This  is  an  old  but  excellent  receipt. 

Kioh  Fruit  Cake. — One  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  worked  together  until  very  light ;  one  wine-glass  of  brandy, 
one  dozen  ground  cloves,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cin- 
namon, ten  eggs  beat  separately,  the  yolks  to  be  used  first,  and  after- 
wards the  whites,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sliced  citron,  two  pounds 
of  washed  currants  rubbed  in  flour  and  mixed  in  the  cake  with  one 
pound  of  raisins  cut  fine,  and  one  seeded  and  left  whole  or  cut  once, 
and  one  pound  of  sifted  flour  ;  stir  in  the  citron,  currants,  and  the  chop- 
ped raisins,  and  lastly,  the  flour  and  whole  raisins  alternately ;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  in  deep  basins  two  hours.  If  the  fire  is  strong,  the  heat 
should  be  decreased  the  last  hour.  Line  the  basins  with  buttered  pa- 
per, and  keep  a  piece  over  the  top  of  the  cake.  Frost  it  and  it  will 
keep  two  months  or  longer  if  desired. 

Black  Cake. — Commence  the  day  previous  to  baking  to  prepare 
the  fruit  and  spices.  Wash  the  butter  from  most  of  the  salt,  and 
press  out  the  water  by  wringing  it  in  a  cloth;  seed  the  raisins; 
wash,  dry,  and  pick  over  four  or  five  pounds  of  currants.  Weigh  one 
pound  of  flour,  and  brown  it,  stirring  constantly;  dry  brown  sugar, 
and  roll  it  until  it  is  as  fine  as  flour  ;  seed  three  pounds  of  raisins,  and 
chop  them ;  cut  in  thin  small  slices  one  pound  of  citron  ;  grate  half 
a  nutmeg ;  grind  and  sift  a  dessert  spoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoon of  mace,  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoon  of  cloves.  The  next  day 
weigh  one  pound  of  the  dried  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  butter ;  and  work  them  together  until  light ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of 
molasses  and  the  spices.  Dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  wine-glass 
of  milk ;  strain  it,  and  mix  it  with  a  wine-glass  of  wine,  and  one  of 
brandy,  and  stir  it  in  the  cake.  Have  beat  ten  eggs  as  light  as  possi- 
ble ;  stir  in  the  yolks,  and  beat  well ;  and  then  the  whites,  and  beat 
thoroughly ;  then  add  gradually  the  browned  flour.  The  pans  should 
be  buttered,  and  lined  with  buttered  paper ;  stir  in  first  the  citron, 
then  the  raisins  chopped,  and  lastly  three  pounds  of  currants  weighed 
when  dry  ;  stir  a  few  moments  to  mix  well,  and  bake  immediately  in 
a  moderate  oven ;  cover  the  top  with  paper ;  bake  steadily,  if  in  thick 


CAKES.  179 

loaves,  from  two  to  two  and  a  half  hours.  It  should  not  be  cut  under 
two  weeks,  and  it  would  be  better  left  until  four.  Frost  before  cut- 
ting. The  frosting  becomes  discolored  by  standing.  This  cake,  if 
frosted  while  warm,  will  keep  for  a  year.  It  should  be  kept  shut  in 
a  tin  box.  As  soon  as  cold,  roll  it  in  thick  linen  cloth,  and  pack  it 
away.  For  weddings,  it  is  considered  indispensable,  and  is  generally 
baked  in  a  milk-pan ;  it  will  then  take  three  hours  steady  baking. 
It  tastes  better  to  dry  flour  without  browning. 

"Wedding  Cake  of  1818. — Two  teacups  of  sugar,  two  of  light 
dough  from  hop  yeast  bread,  and  one  and  a  half  of  butter.  Mix  these 
ingredients  together ;  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg,  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  half  as  much  mace,  a  pinch  of  cloves,  eight  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  one  glass  of  wine.  Beat  it  well ;  the  longer  it  is  worked,  the 
lighter  it  will  be  ;  let  it  rise  until  very  light.  Then  add  two  pounds 
of  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  chopped  fine,  the  other  cut  once,  two 
pounds  of  washed  currants,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron ;  mix 
in  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  very  little  water,  and  strained ; 
let  it  rise  again,  and  then  butter  some  pans ;  line  them  with  paper, 
buttered  well,  and  once  again  beat  up  the  cake  to  stir  up  the  fruit ; 
pour  it  in  the  pans,  let  it  stand  a  while  to  rise,  and  then  bake  it  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Cover  the  top  with  papers ;  if  this  is  baked  in  one 
loaf  it  will  take  three  hours'  steady  baking  in  a  very  moderate  oven.  It 
must  be  hot  enough  to  scald  the  dough  very  soon  through,  or  it  may 
run  over.  Frost  while  hot.  Old-fashioned  people  always  made  this 
cake  for  weddings.    It  cannot  be  made  with  brewer's  yeast,  use  hop. 

Mes.  S.'s  Loaf  Cake. — Five  cups  of  dough,  three  of  sugar,  one 
and  a  half  of  butter;  work  the  ingredients  well  together;  add  a 
wine  glass  of  brandy  or  wine,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved, 
and  strained  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  and  four  eggs ;  work  these 
in  the  mixture,  and  add  a  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  cut  once.  Spice 
to  the  taste ;  line  basins  with  buttered  paper,  pour  in  the  mixture. 
Bake  as  soon  as  very  light  in  a  moderate  oven.  Make  the  dough  with 
homemade  yeast. 

Children's  Loaf  Cake. — Five  cups  of  dough,  two  of  sugar,  one 
of  butter,  caraway  seed  ground,. and  two  eggs.  Line  pans  with  but- 
tered paper,  and  bake  as  soon  as  light,  use  homemade  yeast. 

Quick  Loaf  Cake. — One  cup  of  butter,  three  of  sugar,  worked 
together,  two  beaten  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed 


180 

in  one  and  a  half  cup  of  sifted  flour,  and  again  sifted.  Fruit  and 
spices  to  the  taste,  and  lastly  strain  in  the  cake  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  one  and  a  half  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  immediately 
in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

Federal  Cake.— One  pound  of  sugar,  a  half-pound  of  butter 
mixed  together,  six  well-beaten  eggs,  spices  to  the  taste.  One  teacup 
of  sweet  milk,  and  one  pound  of  flour.  When  these  ingredients  are 
well  mixed,  add  a  half-teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  wine,  and  bake 
immediately. 

"Washington  Cake. — Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  the 
same  of  sugar  worked  to  a  cream,  five  eggs  well  beaten,  nutmeg,  and 
cinnamon ;  one  pound  sifted  flour,  one  gill  of  wine,  a  half  teaspoon 
of  soda  dissolved  in  one  gill  of  cream,  one  pound  of  currants  or 
raisins.    Bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  F.'s  Harrison  Cake. — One  and  a  half  old-fashioned  coffee- 
cups  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  butter.  One  of  molasses,  not  syrup. 
One  gill  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  cinnamon,  and  cloves,  five 
beaten  eggs,  five  cups  of  flour,  and  one  pint  of  raisins.  Dissolve  the 
soda-in  the  milk,  and  strain  it  in  the  last  thing.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.    This  cake  can  be  made  with  the  fat  from  fried  pork. 

Thanksgiving  Cake. — Six  pounds  of  butter,  and  six  pounds  of 
sugar,  worked  together ;  twelve  eggs  well  beaten,  three  quarts  of 
sweet  milk,  twelve  pounds  of  flour,  mace,  cinnamon,  raisins,  and  one 
quart  of  hop  yeast,  good  and  fresh.  Let  it  rise  once  before  putting 
in  the  pans ;  if  the  fruit  settles,  stir  it  up  before  pouring  it  in  the  pans. 
This  is  an  old  New  England  receipt. 

Madison  Cake. — One  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  one  pound  of  pul- 
verized sugar,  rubbed  together,  and  beat  light;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
grated  nutmeg,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon ;  separate  and 
beat  until  light  fourteen  eggs ;  mix  in  the  yolks,  and  beat  them  well  with 
the  sugar.  Pulverize  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  sift  it  with  a  pound 
and  three-fourths  of  flour ;  seed  two  pounds  of  raisins,  cut  them  once, 
dredge  them  with  flour,  and  stir  them  in  the  cake,  and  lastly  stir  in  a 
pint  of  rich  sour  milk.  Bake  immediately  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  ice 
when  partly  cold.  If  more  fruit  is  desired,  mix  in  the  same  quantity  of 
washed  Zante  currants. 

Marmalade  Cake. — Take  a  thick  pound  cake,  baked  in  a  two 


CAKES.  181 

quart  basin — it  should  be  three  days  old ;  slice  it  horizontally,  so  that 
the  slices  will  be  one  sixth  of  an  inch  thick,  spread  on  any  nice  mar- 
malade, and  pile  the  cake  very  evenly ;  then  make  a  nice  frosting,  and 
ice  the  top  only  ;  cut  American  citron  in  circular  pieces ;  wipe  it  free 
from  juice,  and  lay  a  border  of  half-moon-shaped  pieces  on  the  edge 
of  the  cake. 

Strawberry  Cake. — Prepare  a  pound  cake  as  above ;  mash  ripe 
strawberries,  and  drain  them ;  spread  the  fruit  evenly  on  the  cake, 
and  frost  the  top ;  stick  large  ripe  berries  on  the  cake,  before  the 
icing  sets,  sw  eeten  the  juice,  and  serve  it  with  the  cake ;  this  is  a 
proper  dinner  dish,  but  is  good  for  tea  also. 

Jelly  Cake. — One  pound  of  pulverized  loaf  sugar,  half  a  pound 
of  sweet  butter,  five  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  glass  of  wine.  Beat  the 
sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  the  yolks ;  beat  it  well,  and  stir  in 
the  beaten  whites.  Dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  half  a  pint  of  milk ; 
stir  in  one  pound  of  flour,  and  lastly  the  milk  and  soda.  Butter  round 
shallow  pans,  or  square,  if  you  have  no  round  ones.  Spread  the  cake 
evenly  on  the  bottom,  one-sixth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  quickly 
without  burning ;  let  them  become  entirely  cold  in  the  pan.  Then  re- 
move one  to  the  plate  it  is  to  occupy,  spread  it  evenly  with  jelly ;  then 
lay  on  another,  and  so  continue  until  all  but  the  last  one  are  spread,  and 
ice  with  a  thin  frosting.  The  jelly  should  not  be  spread  on  the  cake 
a  long  time  before  using,  as  it  will  absorb  it. 

German  New  Year's  Cookies,  very  fine. — Four  fresh  eggs  beat 
with  a  pound  of  sugar  one  hour,  the  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  one 
pound  of  flour,  and  one  half-teaspoon  of  hartshorn.  These  cakes  must 
be  made  in  a  cold  room,  or  they  will  be  too  soft ;  roll  thin,  cut  them  in 
squares,  and  impress  them  with  any  fancy  mould ;  lay  on  the  pans 
anise  or  caraway  seed,  instead  of  buttering ;  let  the  cakes  dry  from 
twenty-four  to  forty-eight  hours,  and  afterwards  bake  in  a  very  slow 
oven  without  browning.    They  will  keep  a  year. 

Soft  Cookies. — One  coffee-cup  of  butter,  three  of  sugar,  one  of 
thick  cream,  four  eggs ;  mix  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  eggs 
and  cream.  Sift  a  pan  of  flour,  and  into  a  pint  bowlful  mix  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  and  pass  it  through  a  sieve.  Stir  it  in  the  cake, 
and  enough  more  to  make  the  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  roll  out ; 
spice  with  caraway,  nutmeg,  or  ground  coriander  seed. 

Mrs.  Case's  Cookies,  No.  1. — One  coffee-cup  of  sugar,  a  piece  of 


182  housekeeper's  encyclopedia 

butter  as  large  as  a  large  egg,  half  a  coffee-cup  of  water,  in  which  is 
dissolved  a  half-teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  roll.  The 
quicker  these  are  made,  the  better ;  spice  with  nutmeg,  caraway,  or 
ground  coriander. 

Winter  Cookies,  No.  2. — Four  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  pork 
fat,  and  one  of  butter,  work  together  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  roll,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  mixed ; 
add  coriander  and  caraway  ground,  a  teaspoon  of  each. 

"Winter  Cookies,  No.  3. — Three  coffee-cups  of  sugar,  two  of 
butter,  mixed  together,  a  tablespoonful  of  caraway  seed,  a  half-tea- 
spoonful  4>f  tartaric  acid  dissolved  in  a  coffee-cup  of  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  pulverized  and  sifted  in  a  part  of  the  flour ;  mix  in 
the  water  and  acid,  then  a  part  of  the  flour  without  the  soda,  and  lastly 
that  containing  the  soda.  Eoll  thin,  and  bake  quickly,  on  buttered 
papers. 

Eich  Cookies,  No.  4. — Work  together  one  teacup  of  butter  and 
two  of  sugar.  Beat  two  eggs  separately,  and  stir  in  first  the  yolk, 
and  then  the  whites.  Dissolve  in  half  a  cup  of  water  a  third  of  a 
teaspoon  of  tartaric  acid;  Sift  in  a  part  of  the  flour  a  half -teaspoon  of 
soda ;  mix  in  first  a  little  flour  without  soda,  and  afterward  that  with 
the  soda ;  spice  with  nutmeg ;  spread  granulated  sugar  on  the  paste- 
board and  roll  the  dough  on  it  instead  of  flour,  and  after  it  is  rolled 
thin  enough,  sift  sugar  over  the  dough,  and  pass  the  rolling-pin  lightly 
over  it.  Be  as  quick  as  possible  in  getting  the  cakes  into  the  oven 
after  the  acid  and  flour  is  added ;  bake  quickly.  Bake  them  on  but- 
tered paper  and  cover  them  if  there  is  danger  of  scorching  with 
white  paper.  Let  them  cool  a  little,  and  then  lift  the  paper  with  the 
cakes  and  let  them  become  cold  before  taking  them  off. 

Pound  Cookies,  No.  5. — One  pound  of  sugar  and  one  of  butter 
stirred  together,  one  nutmeg,  three  eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  tartaric  acid 
dissolved  in  a  half-pint  of  water ;  one  quart  of  flour,  and  two  tea- 
spoons of  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  pint  of  hot  water ;  mix  it  in  the 
cake,  and  as  quickly  as  possible ;  add  enough  flour  to  just  roll ;  scatter 
over  some  granulated  sugar,  and  roll  lightly.  Bake  quickly  without 
scorching. 

New  Year's  Cookies,  No.  6. — One  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  - 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  three  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  ground  cori- 
ander, two  table-spoonfuls  of  caraway  seed,  one  pint  of  flour,  and 


183 

a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  teacup  of  milk ;  stir  it  in  and 
add  nearly  all  the  flour  needed,  and  lastly,  stir  in  a  half-cup  of  water 
in  which  is  dissolved  a  half-teaspoonful  of  tartaric  acid,  and  the 
necessary  flour  to  roll  it.  Bake  as  soon  as  possible,  in  a  quick  but 
not  burning  oven. 

Jumbles,  No.  1. — Put  one  pound  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar  and  a 
grated  nutmeg  into  two.  pounds  of  flour,  pass  it  through  a  sieve. 
Beat  four  eggs  as  light  as  possible  ;  melt  over  water  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  beat  it  and  the  eggs  together,  and  mix  them  with 
the  flour ;  roll  the  paste  thin,  and  cut  them  with  a  jumble  cutter ; 
scatter  over  the  top  pulverized  loaf-sugar,  and  bake  on  buttered 
papers,  without  browning. 

Pound  Jumbles,  No.  2. — One  pound  of  sugar,  one  of  butter 
worked  until  light,  ten  eggs  beaten  separately,  add  first  the  yolks  and 
then  the  whites,  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a  teaspoon  of  lemon,  and 
one  of  vanilla,  and  flour  to  make  a  paste  that  will  roll  well.  Bake 
quickly. 

Sponge  Deop  Cak^s. — Make  a  sponge  cake,  heat  a  dripping-pan 
hot  enough  to  cook  a  griddle  cake,  butter  muffin  rings,  and  set  them 
in  the  pan,  and  when  the  rings  and  pan  are  hot,  drop  a  table-spoonful 
of  cake  in  each  ring,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  a  few  moments.  Have 
icing  ready,  and  whiten  them  while  hot. 

Almootd  Cae^s. — Make  as  the  preceding  receipt,  and  mix  in  a 
half-pound  of  blanched  almonds,  pounded  separately  with  rose  water 
in  a  marble  or  glass  mortar. 

Geeman  Habd  Chocolate  Cakes. — Grate  and  sift  half  a  pound 
of  chocolate.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  add  the  chocolate 
gradually ;  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  snow,  to  the  yolks 
and  chocolate;  beat  well,  and  if  not  sweet  enough  add  sugar.  If 
the  chocolate  is  good,  they  will  be  sufficiently  sweet.  Take  off  small 
bits  with  a  teaspoon  and  bake  on  buttered  paper. 

Soft  Chocolate  Caei:. — One  pound  of  sugar,  twenty  eggs  beat 
half  an  hour  without  separating ;  half  a  pound  of  grated  chocolate 
added  gradually  to  the  egg  and  sugar,  with  three-fourths  of  a  pound 
of  starch  flour ;  the  whole  beaten  half  an  hour.  Butter  the  forms, 
and  sprinkle  them  with  pulverized  crackers,"  and  turn  in  the 
mixture. 


184 

Chestnut  Cake. — One  pound  and  a  half  of  boiled  chestnuts  mashed 
and  sifted.  One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggs  beat  light.  Beat  the  ingredients  well  together,  and  spice  to  suit 
the  taste.  Line  a  shallow  pudding-plate  with  puff  paste,  (see  Puff 
Paste  ;)  pour  in  the  mixture.  The  Germans  call  this  cake,  but  it  is 
more  like  a  pie  or  pudding. 

Plain  Fried  Cakes. — Melt  a  table-spoonful  of  lard  in  a  quart  of 
milk,  add  two  coffee-cups  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a 
nutmeg.  Dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  as  little  hot  water  as  pos- 
1  sible,  and  strain  in  the  milk.  Sift  one  quart  of  flour.  Pulverize  a 
half-teaspoonful  of  tartaric  acid,  and  mix  it  in  half  the  flour 
thoroughly ;  pass  it  again  through  the  sieve.  Have  the  fat  ready 
hot,  mix  the  milk,  sugar,  soda,  etc.,  in  the  quart  of  flour  without  the 
acid ;  then  mix  in  the  remainder  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  fry  im- 
mediately ;  the  sooner  they  are  fried  the  lighter  they  will  be.  Koll 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  them  like  jumbles.  Try 
the  lard  to  see  if  it  is  sufficiently  hot  or  too  hot ;  if  right,  the  dough 
will  rise  and  look  a  little  brown ;  if  too  hot,  it  will  sputter  and  brown 
the  dough  as  soon  as  it  is  in.  If  too  cold,  it  will  remain  on  the 
bottom  or  rise  slowly,  with  no  appearance  of  cooking.  These  cake? 
will  be  good  for  two  days  only. 

Rich  Feied  Cakes. — Three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter  of 
lard — if  the  latter,  a  teaspoon  of  salt — half  a  nutmeg,  five  eggs,  a  teaj 
cup  of  sour  milk,  and  a  teaspoon  of  soda  mixed  in  a  small  part  of  the 
flour  and  sifted,  and  just  enough  flour  to  roll  nicely.  Cut  with  a 
jumble-cutter  and  fry  quickly. 

Mrs.  F.'s  Crullers. — Six  eggs,  six  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  pul- 
verized sugar,  and  six  running-over  table-spoonfuls  of  melted,  not  hot, 
butter,  nutmeg,  and  enough  flour  to  roll  conveniently.  Flour  the 
paste-board  well  and  evenly ;  roll  the  dough  one-eighth  of  an  inch 
thick,  straighten  it  on  each  side,  dipping  the  knife  or  dough-spur  in 
flour ;  then  proceed  to  cut  out  the  cakes.  Mark  them  off  with  a 
small  light  ruler  in  oblong  pieces  two  inches  wide  and  four  long. 
Slash  them  width-wise  every  fourth  of  an  inch  nearly  through,  to  the 
edge,  making  slits,  fold  them  up,  leaving  the  side  next  the  board  on 
the  inside,  pinch  the  two  upper  ends  together,  and  then  the  two  lower, 
leaving  a  slash  where  they  join ;  fry  in  hot  lard,  sift  loaf-sugar  over 
them,  lay  them  on  plates  in  three  layers,  the  first  covering  the  plate, 
the  next  leaving  one  row  on  the  edge,  but  one  cake  thick,  and  the  third 


CAKES.  185 

one  cake  in  the  middle.  These  are  beautiful  and  excellent.  They  will 
keep  fresh  for  months.  They  should  be  round  with  a  hole  through  the 
centre  resembling  a  mousetrap.    If  not  made  regular  they  look  badly. 

Fried  Cakes  without  Eggs  or  Milk. — Mix  with  flour  a  coffee- 
cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar 
freed  from  lumps  ;  pass  the  flour,  soda,  and  tartar  through  the  sieve. 
Dissolve  in  a  pint  of  hot  water  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
melt  in  the  same  a  small  table-spoonful  of  lard ;  wet  the  flour  pre- 
pared with  the  soda  and  tartar  with  the  water  and  lard,  work  the 
dough  quickly  but  thoroughly.  Eoll  thin,  cut  the  cakes  with  a  jum- 
ble-cutter, and  fry  immediately.  They  will  keep  fresh  two  or  three 
days.    Nutmeg  is  an  addition. 


Coffee  Cakes.— Mix  as  for  Mrs.  W.'s  Superior  Fried  Cakes,  p.  190, 
without  sugar,  and  let  it  rise.  Fry  in  balls  not  over  two  inches  thick. 
Serve  warm  for  breakfast.  It  will  have  to  be  prepared  to  make  up 
overnight  if  wanted  for  breakfast.  The  oftener  it  is  kneaded  over 
when  made  with  hop  yeast  the  better,  and  when  sour  add  soda.  If 
made  with  homemade  hop  yeast,  the  dough  can  be  kept  on  hand  a 
week,  by  adding  soda  every  morning. 

Fritters.— Make  a  nice  batter  of  sweet  rich  milk,  add  salt.  To 
every  quart  of  milk  allow  three  eggs  beat  separately.  Mix  in  first 
the  yolks,  and  after  the  flour  the  whites.  Boil  in  hot  lard.  The 
batter  should  be  just  stiff  enough  to  drop  in  without  flying  in  pieces. 
Dip  the  spoon  in  the  lard  before  putting  it  in  the  batter.  Serve  as 
soon  as  boiled.  Some  use  sweet  cider  and  sugar,  but  the  best 
sauce  for  them  is  maple  syrup.  They  should  be  fried  in  a  deep 
spider. 

Vanities. — Take  two  eggs,  beat  without  separating  as  light  as 
possible ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  wet  up  as  much  flour  as  will 
roll ;  they  should  be  pretty  stiff.  Take  small  bits  of  the  dough,  not 
larger  than  a  teaspoon  bowl,  roll  them  in  the  hand  until  quite  round, 
dredge  the  moulding-board  with  flour,  and  roll  as  thin  as  possible. 
Fry  in  sweet  lard  that  has  not  been  used  to  fry  in  before. 

Bread  Fried  Cakes. — Take  five  cups  light  dough  from  hop  yeast 
bread,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  of  sugar,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  four 
eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  flour  to  knead  well. 
Let  them  rise  until  very  light,  but  be  careful  they  do  not  sour. 


186         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Knead  it  down  again  after  it  rises ;  roll  ont  the  dough,  cut  it  in  small 
diamond-shaped  cakes,  let  them  rise,  and  fry  as  soon  as  light.  These 
are  the  best  fresh. 

Pound  Waffles. — One  pound  powdered  loaf-sugar,  three-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  short  pound  of  flour,  and  ten  eggs  separated 
and  beaten  light.    Bake  in  waffle-irons  and  eat  them  cold. 

Plain  Waffles. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  nine  well-beaten  eggs, 
two  table-spoons  of  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk 
and  strained,  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  the  flour.  Make 
the  batter  as  thick  as  pound  cake.  Serve  with  maple-syrup,  or  cream 
and  sugar. 

Kioh  German  Waffles.— Half  a  pound  of  butter  beat  to  a  cream, 
the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  light,  and  twelve  heaping  table-spoons 
of  sifted  flour.  Beat  well,  add  four  table-spoons  of  sweet  cream,  lastly 
add  the  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  beat  all  together.  Serve  hot.  Butter 
the  irons  with  sweet  butter,  {see  Iron  Ware,  Part  II.)  Serve  with 
powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

German  Kaised  Waffles. — One  and  a  half  pound  of  flour,  six 
ounces  melted  butter,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  ten  eggs  beaten  sepa- 
rately, a  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  table-spoons  of  brewer's  yeast,  washed 
free  from  the  bitter  properties,  {see  Part  HI.  Chap.  X.)  Bake  when 
light,  and  serve  hot,  with  maple-syrup  or  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
These  may  be  sweetened  if  desired.  This  recipe  will  make  good 
muffins  baked  in  rings. 

Good  Waffles. — A  pint  of  new  milk,  the  yolks  of  four  beaten 
eggs,  stirred  in  the  milk,  and  afterwards  the  whites,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  melted  and  stirred  in,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
soda  dissolved  in  the  milk  and  strained,  nearly  all  the  flour,  one  pint 
of  sour  cream,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  the  batter  as  stiff  as  pound 
cake.  Serve  as  soon  as  baked.  Grease  the  irons  with  sweet  butter. 
Serve  with  pulverized  loaf-sugar  and  strong  cinnamon  ground  and 
sifted. 

American  Raised  Waffles. — One  pint  sweet  milk,  one  heaping 
teacupful  of  butter,  three  eggs,  a  table-spoonful  of  thick  brewer's 
yeast,  one  quart  of  flour,  and  another  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  in  which 
is, dissolved  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Let  it  rise  until  very 
light,  then  bake  as  other  waffles.    Serve  hot  with  butter  and  sugar. 


CAKES.  187 

Mrs.  W.'s  Muffins. — One-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  stir  it 
in  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs,  and  add  them  with  one  quart  of  flour,  and 
a  heaping  table- spoonful  of  brewer's  yeast.  Let  it  rise,  then  butter 
the  rings,  heat  the  griddle,  and  set  the  rings  on  it,  dip  in  the  batter, 
bake  quickly,  and  serve  hot. 

Sally  Lunn. — One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg^  melted  and  stirred  in  the  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three 
well-beaten  eggs,  a  table-spoon  of  brewer's  yeast,  and  a  quart  of 
flour.  Let  it  rise  in  the  bake  pans,  bake  quickly,  and  serve  hot.  If 
any  is  left,  heat  it  over  the  next  day. 

Cream  Drop  Cake. — A  half  pint  of  rich  cream,  and  a  half  pint  of 
egg,  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  as  much  flour  as  can  be  beat  in  with  a  spoon  ;  it  should  be  just 
thick  enough  to  drop  from  a  spoon ;  butter  pans  and  drop  the  cake 
on  it ;  let  it  bake  hard.    If  the  cream  is  sour,  add  soda. 

Genuine  Boston  Cream  Cakes. — Take  one  quart  of  sweet  new 
milk,  from  which  take  three  table-spoonfuls  to  moisten  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  and  put  the  remainder  on  to  boil ;  separate 
four  eggs  and  beat  them  as  stiff  as  possible ;  add  to  the  yolks  five 
heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar ;  when  the  milk  is 
boiling  hot,  stir  in  first  the  moistened  flour,  let  it  thicken  but  not  boil, 
then  stir  the  whites  and  yolks  together  and  beat  them  well,  pour  a 
little  of  the  boiled  milk  in  the  egg,  stir  it  well,  and  then  mix  it  in  the 
hot  milk,  let  it  boil  three  minutes,  then  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  one  lemon,  and  set  it  away  to  cool,  then  proceed  to  make  the  paste ; 
take  one  pint  of  sifted  flour  and  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  set 
it  over  hot  water  until  it  melts,  then  add  a  quart  of  milk,  and  stir  in 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  flour,  let  it  scald  through  ;  then  let  it  be- 
come cold,  beat  all  the  lumps  out,  separate  and  beat  twelve  eggs,  stir 
them  in  the  paste,  first  the  yolks  and  then  the  whites ;  butter  twenty- . 
four  round  tins,  fill  them  not  quite  half  full ;  bake  thoroughly  ;  when 
cold,  open  them  a  little  with  a  knife  and  put  in  the  cream ;  press  the 
edges  together  and  wet  them  over  with  egg.  These  cakes  must  be 
used  the  same  day  they  are  baked. 

Sweet  Milk  Griddle  Cakes  without  Eggs,  No.  1. — Dissolve  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  strain  it  and  add  one  heap- 
ing teaspoon  of  salt ;  sift  with  a  pint  of  flour  two  teaspoonfuls  of 


188  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

cream  of  tartar,  mix  the  flour  in  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and  stir  it  well 
to  get  out  all  lumps ;  then  mix  in  the  milk  and  soda,  and  bake  im- 
mediately ;  if  too  thin  to  suit,  add  more  flour ;  some  like  thin  and 
some  thick  cakes. 

Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes  without  Eggs,  No.  2. — One  quart 
of  sour  milk,  and  one  pint  of  flour,  in  which  is  mixed  before  sifting 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda ;  mix  the  flour  in  the  milk,  beat  out  all  the 
lumps  as  soon  as  possible,  and  bake  immediately. 

Griddle  Cakes,  very  nice,  No.  3. — One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  two 
heaping  table-spoons  of  butter,  measured  before  melting;  stir  in 
the  milk  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  of  soda ;  separate  and  beat  five 
eggs  and  stir  in  the  milk,  first  the  yolks  and  then  the  whites ;  sift 
flour  and  mix  in  a  part  of  it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar ;  stir  in 
first  the  part  without  the  tartar  and  afterwards  the  other ;  it  will 
take  about  one  pint ;  if  not  thick  enough  to  suit,  add  more  flour. 
Bake  immediately  and  serve  hot  from  the  griddle. 

Cream  Griddle  Cakes,  No.  4.  —  One  quart  sour  cream,  four 
beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  of  soda,  and  one  pint  of  flour ; 
mix  the  soda  in  half  the  flour,  and  stir  it  in  last ;  bake  as  soon  as 
mixed,  and  serve  immediately ;  add  more  flour  if  not  thick  enough  to 
suit. 

Barley  Griddle  Cakes. — One  teacup  of  boiled  barley,  one  pint 
of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  a 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  flour  enough  to  make  the  cakes  into  batter, 
and  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Bice  Griddle  Cakes. — A  pint  of  boiled  rice,  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  eggs,  a  half-teaspoon  of  soda,  one  of 
cream  of  tartar  and  flour,  to  make  them  in  a  batter. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel  Griddle  Cakes. — Make  a  thin  gruel  with  milk 
instead  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  thickens ;  then  thin  it  with  sour 
cream,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  the  mixture,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  molasses,  stir  in  wheat  flour  until  thick  enough  to  bake 
well,  and  lastly,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Mock  Buckwheat  Cakes. — Scald  a  teacup  of  rice  flour  in  one  quart 
of  water ;  after  it  thickens,  stir  in  a  bowl  of  Graham  flour  unbolted,  add 
just  water  sufficient  to  make  a  batter  of  right  consistency,  stir  in  a 


CAKES.  189 

teaspoon  heaping  full  of  salt,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  brewer's  or 
half  a  teacup  of  home  hop  yeast ;  let  it  rise  and  bake  when  light. 

Quick  Buckwheat. — Dissolve  in  a  quart  of  water  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  soda,  add  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  ;  just  before  bak- 
ing, stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  tartaric  acid,  dissolved  in  a  teacup  of  hot 
water ;  bake  immediately  and  serve  as  soon  as  baked,  or  they  will 
taste  of  soda,  which  spoils  them. 

Raised  Buckwheat  Cakes,  No.  1. — "Warm  a  quart  of  water,  and 
stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  molasses,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  mix  in 
enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  batter,  and  stir  in  a  table -spponful 
of  brewer's  or  two  of  hop  yeast ;  let  it  rise ;  if  it  remains  all  night  and 
becomes  sour,  add  soda. 

Raised  Buckwheat  Cakes,  No.  2. — Soak  enough  dry  bread  to  fill 
a  pint  bowl,  make  a  batter  with  one  quart  of  warm  water,  two  even 
table-spoonfuls  of  molasses  to  make  them  brown,  and  enough  buck- 
wheat to  make  a  thin  batter ;  beat  out  all  the  lumps  from  the  bread, 
add  salt  and  a  table-spoonful  of  brewer's  or  two  of  hop  yeast,  and  let 
it  stand  all  night ;  if  it  sours,  add  soda. 

Indian  Meal  Gkiddle  Cakes  without  Mdlk. — One  and  a  half  cof- 
fee-cups of  Indian  meal  stirred  into  two  and  a  half  coffee-cups  of  boiling 
water ;  beat  thoroughly ;  Indian  meal  cakes  need  long  beating.  Add 
two  cups  of  cold  water,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour,  two  table- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  a  salt-spoon  of  salt.  White  meal  is  the 
best. 

Gkaham  Geiddle  Cakes. — Make  a  batter  with  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk,  the  whites  of  four  and  yolks  of  two  eggs,  separated  and  beat 
very  light,  a  little  salt  and  two  table-spoons  of  molasses. 

Journey  or  Johnny  Cake,  No.  1. — Four  coffee-cups  sour  milk,  two 
coffee-cups  of  Indian  meal,  three  eggs,  salt,  and  an  even  table-spoon  of 
soda,  dissolved  and  strained ;  beat  the  whole  twenty  minutes ;  unless 
well  beat,  it  will  not  be  light. 

Johnny  Cake,  No.  2.— Boil  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  pour  it  on  one 
and  a  half  cup  of  Indian  meal,  and  beat  fifteen  minutes ;  add  salt,  half 
a  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  beaten  egg^  a  table-spoon  of  butter,  or  two 
of  cream,  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  a  table-spoon  of  flour,  beat  well 
together.    This  cake  is  best  baked  in  a  spider,  on  the  stove ;  when 


190         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

browned  on  the  bottom,  turn  it  into  another  spider,  or  finish  on  tho 
griddle. 

Mrs.  "W.'s  Superior  Fried  Cakes. — One  pint  of  water,  one  quart 
of  flour,  and  two  table-spoons  of  brewer's  yeast ;  knead  the  dough 
until  it  cleaves  from  the  hand,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  until  quite 
light,  which  should  be,  if  the  yeast  is  perfect,  within  twenty  minutes ; 
when  sufficiently  light,  mix  three  well-beaten  eggs  with  a  coffee-cup 
of  good  sugar,  beat  well  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  work  into  the 
dough  half  a  coffee-cup  of  butter,  and  when  well  incorporated  with  the 
dough,  add  the  egg  and  sugar,  working  the  dough  until  the  ingredients 
are  mixed  evenly  through  the  whole ;  put  it  back  in  the  pan,  cover  it 
warm,  and  let  it  rise  again ;  when  quite  light  roll  the  dough  lightly, 
cut  the  cakes  with  a  ring  shaped  jumble  cutter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  a 
light  brown ;  they  should  be  used  fresh  ;  lard  may  be  substituted  in 
place  of  the  butter,  by  using  a  trifle  less  and  adding  a  teaspoon  of  salt ; 
should  the  yeast  be  very  bitter,  wash  twice  the  quantity  in  a  quart  of 
cold  water ;  let  it  settle  and  drain  off  the  water,  and  afterward  measure 
of  the  thick  part  of  the  yeast,  two  table-spoonfuls. 

Composition  Cake. — Work  together  until  light,  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  butter  with  one  and  a  fourth  pounds  of  nice  sugar,  add  four 
well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  one  wine-glass  of  wine,  one  and 
three-fourths  pounds  of  flour,  one  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one- 
half  pint  of  cream,  and  one  teaspoon  of  saleratus ;  more  fruit  may  be 
used  if  desired ;  when  no  cream  can  be  had,  use  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a 
teaspoonful  more  of  butter.    This  will  make  three  cakes. 


CHAPTER    XII. 

CONFECTIONEEIES,    CEEAMS,    ETC. 

Lemon  Puffs. — One  pound  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar  beat  in  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs;  add  one  table-spoonful  extra  for  every  spoonful  of 
flavoring ;  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  as  stiff  as  possible ;  then  add  the 
whites  beat  to  a  stiff  froth ;  beat  well,  flavor  with  lemon-juice,  and 
extract  of  the  peel  or  citric  acid,  and  extract  of  lemon ;  drop  on  but- 
tered papers  in  small  cakes,  and  bake  quickly  without  browning; 
leave  the  puffs  on  the  paper  until  entirely  cold. 

Cocoa  Cakes. — One  pound  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar  mixed  in  one 


CONFECTIONERIES,    CREAMS,   ETC.  191 

pound  of  the  white  part  grated  of  cocoanut ;  beat  six  eggs  stiff,  and 
mix  them  with  the  sugar  and  cocoa ;  if  there  is  more  than  enough  of 
the  egg  to  just  wet  them,  do  not  use  the  whole ;  there  should  be 
merely  sufficient  to  dampen  the  cakes  thoroughly ;  bake  on  paper 
without  browning,  in  a  moderate  oven ;  leave  them  on  the  paper  until 
entirely  cold. 

Macoaroons. — One  pound  of  blanched  sweet  almonds,  ana  a 
handful  of  bitter ;  pound  them  in  a  glass  mortar  with  rose-water,  to 
prevent  their  oiling ;  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  stir 
into  them  one  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar,  and  then  mix  in  gradu- 
ally the  almonds ;  drop  them  on  buttered  paper,  sift  over  them  some 
sugar,  and  bake  quickly  without  browning ;  leave  them  on  the  paper 
until  cold. 

To  Prepare  Syrups  for  Candies. — Confectioners  purify  the  purest 
sugar.  Dissolve  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  in  a  pint  of  cold  water,  add 
the  white  of  an  egg,  and  beat  the  mixture  well ;  when  it  boils  up  take 
it  from  the  fire,  and  remove  the  scum  ;  put  it  again  on  the  fire,  and 
when  it  boils  up,  throw  in  a  little  cold  water  ;  again  take  it  off,  and 
remove  the  scum ;  continue  this  until  no  scum  rises ;  it  will  take  bat 
a  few  drops  of  water  each  time. 

Strength  of  Syrups. — It  is  ascertained  by  experiments,  that  two 
pounds  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water,  is  the  proper  strength  for  syrups ; 
to  prevent  their  working  or  candying.  Of  course  the  juice  of  fruit  is 
to  be  taken  into  account  in  this  rule ;  juicy  fruit  would  need  no 
water. 

Candying  Syrups. — After  the  syrup  is  clarified,  which  is  known 
by  a  thin  skin  appearing  on  the  surface,  strain  it ;  then  put  it  again 
on  the  fire,  boil  slowly,  trying  it  often,  by  taking  a  little  between  the 
thumb  and  finger ;  if  in  opening  them  a  short  thread  forms,  and 
quickly  breaks,  it  is  said  the  syrup  has  reached  the  strength  of  the 
little  thread ;  if  a  longer  thread  of  greater  strength  forms,  it  is  called 
the  "  great  thread ; "  it  is  said  then  to  have  reached  the  first  degree. 
The  second  degree  is  called  the  pearl,  it  is  obtained  by  farther  boiling ; 
in  this  the  thread  will  bear  being  drawn  as  far  as  the  thumb  and 
finger  can  stretch ;  this  makes  candied  sugar.  By  farther  boiling  we 
obtain  the  blow  ;  this  is  known  by  dipping  a  skimmer  with  holes  in 
the  syrup  ;  if  it  blubbers  when  blown,  this  degree  is  obtained ;  this 
is  used  in  candying  fruit ;  this  is  called  the  third  degree  ;  the  fourth 
is  the  feather ;  it  has  more  blubbers  and  the  sugar  flies  off  in  flakes  in 


<92 

tossing  the  skimmer  quickly.  The  fifth  is  the  ball ;  this  allows  the 
pyrup's  being  made  into  balls,  by  dipping  the  thumb  and  finger  into 
cold  water,  and  rolling  it  quickly.  The  sixth  is  the  crack ;  it  will 
not  stick  to  the  fingers,  and  cracks  when  cold ;  this  is  proper  for  can- 
dies made  at  home,  and  is  usually  known  by  dropping  it  in  cold 
water.  The  seventh  and  last  degree,  is  called  the  "  carmel ;  "  this 
makes  a  beautiful  ornamental  covering  for  sweetmeats.  After  this 
it  will  burn.  Confectioners  use  cream  of  tartar  also  to  clear  their 
syrups.  The  rule  is  half  an  ounce  to  every  five  pounds ;  both  sugar 
and  cream  of  tartar  is  dissolved  in  one  pint  of  water ;  when  it  boils 
skim  off  all  that  rises.  Too  much  cream  of  tartar  makes  the  candy 
crumble. 

To  Candy  Plums,  Apeicots,  etc. — Boil  the  fruits  in  syrup,  then 
dry  them  on  the  stove,  or  before  a  fire ;  the  syrup  must  then  be  boiled 
to  a  candy  height,  the  fruit  dipped  in  it  and  again  dried  before  the 
fire  or  in  a  slow  oven ;  continue  to  dip  the  fruit  until  candied,  then 
pack  it  in  boxes  and  keep  it  dry ;  sometimes  once  dipping  is  sufficient. 
English  method.  . 

Feench  Method  of  Candying  Geeen  Gages,  Apeicots,  etc. — The 
fruit  must  previously  have  been  nicely  preserved  in  syrup  ;  provide 
two  square  boxes,  one  made  of  tin,  about  twelve  inches  long,  and  eight 
inches  wide,  and  three  or  four  inches  deep ;  at  one  corner  of  this  box 
there  must  be  a  hole  and  pipe  through  which  the  overflowing  of  the 
syrup  may  pass  off,  but  which  must  be  corked  up  while  the  fruit  is 
in  the  oven ;  the  other  box  must  be  made  entirely  of  wire,  and  some- 
what smaller  than  the  first ;  to  this  last  there  must  also  be  a  cover ; 
the  fruit  which  is  to  be  candied,  is  placed  in  layers,  one  above  an- 
other, on  wire  frames,  and  when  the  wire  box  is  completely  filled,  the 
cover  must  be  put  on  to  keep  the  fruit  in  place ;  the  box  is  then  placed 
within  the  tin  box,  the  cover  shut  closely,  and  both  set  in  a  moderately 
heated  oven. 

Candying  is  produced  by  boiling  syrup  to  the  little  blow,  (see 
Syettps  ;)  boil  a  pint  of  syrup  to  this  degree  ;  as  it  cools,  candy  will 
form  on  the  surface,  which  must  be  skimmed  off  and  poured  in  among 
the  layers  of  fruit,  after  it  is  placed  in  the  wire  box ;  when  the  whole 
syrup  is  thus  used,  the  box  containing  the  fruit  must  be  covered 
closely  and  be  put  into  the  oven,  and  suffered  to  remain  there  for  twelve 
hours ;  when  taken  out,  the  wire  case  must  be  so  placed  as  to  allow 
all  the  syrup  which  has  not  candied  to  pass  away ;  as  soon  as  the 


CONFECTIONERIES,    CREAMS,    ETC.  193 

moisture  disappears,  the  fruit  must  be  taken  out  with  great  care  and 
put  into  tin  boxes  to  be  kept  dry  until  wanted. 

To  Make  Molasses  Candy. — Boil  a  quart  of  molasses  slowly,  until 
it  reaches  the  sixth  degree  called  the  crack  ;  this  is  known  by  drop- 
ping some  of  the  candy  in  cold  water ;  if  it  breaks  brittle  it  is  done  ; 
butter  immediately  some  flat  pans,  pour  out  the  candy,  and  set  it  to 
cool ;  when  nearly  cool,  take  it  from  the  pans  and  stretch  it  until 
white ;  if  the  molasses  is  impure,  skim  it  when  it  first  boils ;  a  piece 
of  alum  as  large  as  a  filbert,  will  make  it  more  brittle.  If  desired 
it  can  be  flavored,  mixed  with  nuts  or  pop  corn. 

Pop  Corn  Balls. — Boil  honey,  maple,  or  other  sugar  to  the  great 
thread ;  pop  corn  and  stick  the  corn  together  in  balls  with  the  candy. 

Maple  Sugar  Candy. — Take  five  pounds  of  sugar  and  half  an  ounce 
of  cream  of  tartar;  break  the  sugar  and  add  two  tumblers  of  water; 
when  the  syrup  boils  up  throw  in  a  little  water  and  take  it  from  the 
fire,  and  skim  it ;  continue  to  do  this  while  any  impurities  rise,  then  boil 
slowly  without  stirring  until  it  reaches  the  sixth  degree  or  crack; 
drop  a  little  in  cold  water  often,  to  be  able  to  decide  when  it  is  boiled 
sufficiently;  have  the  pans  ready  buttered,  pour  but  little  in  each 
pan,  cool  speedily  by  setting  the  pans  on  ice  or  floating  in  water,  and 
stretch  the  candy  as  soon  as  it  can  be  handled  ;  if  not  stretched  very 
warm,  it  cannot  be  worked,  as  it  is  very  brittle.  Pull  it  back  and 
forth  with  the  hands,  or  throw  it  over  a  stretcher  until  it  is  as  white 
as  possible,  then  twist  it  in  small  strings  and  break  it  into  sticks. 
This  candy  requires  great  care  to  make  and  not  have  it  grain,  but  is 
as  good  as  any  confectioner's  when  properly  made. 

Taffy. — Three  pounds  of  sugar  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  water,  in 
which  half  a  teaspoon  of  citric  acid  has  been  dissolved ;  remove  the 
scum  as  fast  as  it  rises.  Boil  until  it  will  crack  when  dropped  in  cold 
water ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons  or  four 
oranges.  Mix  it  well  and  boil  very  gently,  until  it  is  as  hard  as  be- 
fore the  lemon  was  added ;  pour  it  in  square  buttered  pans.  It 
should  be  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick  when  cold.  Before  it 
hardens  mark  it  off  neatly  in  small  blocks  that  it  may  break  regu- 
larly. 

Lemon  Drops. — Boil  clarified  syrup  to  the  sixth  degree,  flavor 
with  lemon,  and  drop  the  candy  in  small  drops  on  buttered  paper, 
and  let  it  remain  on  the  paper  until  cold. 
9 


194  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Comfits. — These  are  made  by  dropping  cassia  buds  or  coriander 
seeds  in  syrup,  and  then  rolling  them  lightly  in  flour,  shaking  them 
in  a  sieve,  letting  them  dry,  and  again  repeating  the  process  until 
they  are  as  large  as  desired. 

Sugae  Hearts  oe  other  Fancy  Candy. — Boil  syrup  to  the 
seventh  degree,  flavor  to  suit,  and  pour  it  evenly  in  moulds  the 
shapes  desired.  The  moulds  should  be  buttered  with  fresh  butter,  as 
the  salt  will  not  taste  well  in  the  candies. 

Ice  Ceeam  Candy. — Five  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of 
cream  of  tartar,  and  one  pint  of  water ;  boil  over  hot  water  until  the 
syrup  is  reduced  to  the  sixth  degree.  "When  it  cracks,  take  it  from 
the  fire,  let  it  become  half  cold,  and  add  the  flavoring,  which  should 
be  the  same  as  for  ice  cream ;  butter  a  platter,  and  cool  quickly ;  work 
it  as  soon  as  it  can  be  handled  without  burning  the  hands ;  it  cannot 
be  made  in  the  summer. 

Sugae  Kisses  to  make  quickly,  No.  1. — Beat  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  stiff,  flavor  with  vanilla ;  lay  sheets  of  white  paper  on  a-  board, 
beat  gradually  one  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar  in  the  eggy  and  drop 
them  in  small  half  egg  shaped  piles  on  the  paper,  dry  them  in  a 
moderate  oven  without  browning ;  lay  the  board  on  bricks  that  it 
may  not  scorch ;  pine  boards  will  not  do.  "When  stiff,  take  them  up 
with  a  knife  and  lay  the  two  together,  making  them  egg-shaped. 

Kisses  veey  nice  made  by  long  beating,  No.  2. — The  whites  of 
eight  eggs  beat  stiff,  and  one  pound  of  pure  pulverized  loaf-sugar,  and 
flavoring  to  suit  the  taste.  Beat  the  sugar  in  by  the  teaspoonful ;  after 
adding  the  sugar,  beat  half  an  hour.  The  kisses  to  be  light  and 
crisp  should  be  beat  at  least  one  hour ;  the  longer  the  egg  and  sugar 
are  beat,  after  all  the  sugar  is  in,  the  better ;  bake  as  directed  above. 

Oeange,  Cocoa,  oe  Pine  Apple  Kisses. — Make  kisses  by  the  last 
rule ;  -when  cool  scoop  out  the  centre,  and  fill  them  with  orange, 
grated  cocoa,  or  pine  apple ;  wet  the  edges  with  some  of  the  sugar, 
and  place  them  together,  so  that  the  edges  will  adhere. 

Steawbeeey  Meringues. — Pour  over  a  pound  of  fine  powdered 
loaf-sugar  the  juice  of  strawberries,  until  it  is  all  colored.  Beat  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  stiff,  and  work  a  pound  and  an  eighth  of  sugar  into 
them ;  bake,  or  rather  dry  them,  in  a  moderate  oven,  on  paper  spread 
on  boards,  which  contain  no  gum  or  sap,  raised  on  brick.    When 


CONFECTIONERIES,    CREAMS,    ETC.  195 

done,  lift  them  with  a  knife  and  place  them  together ;  they  should  be 
as  uniform  in  size  and  form  as  possible. 

Lemon  Cakes. — Rub  the  rinds  of  four  lemons  with  lump  sugar, 
then  powder  it.  To  every  pound  of  sugar,  allow  the  whites  of  four 
beaten  eggs ;  mix  the  sugar,  after  it  is  powdered,  with  Jhe  eggs,  a 
teaspoonful  at  a  time  ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  the  juice  of  the  lemon  ; 
bake  on  papers  spread  on  boards,  until  dry ;  then  place  the  bottoms 
together,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

Jelly  Kisses. — Make  kisses  as  described  before;  after  they  are 
cold  fill  the  cavities  with  jelly  formed  with  isinglass,  flavored  to  suit 
the  taste,  then  place  the  cakes  together. 

Fancy  Jellies  for  Parties. — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  shred  isin- 
glass in  as  little  water  as  possible ;  mix  it  with  strawberry  syrup,  or 
any  other  fruit  syrup,  and  strain  it  into  moulds;  set  it  on  ice  if 
made  in  the  summer,  or  in  a  cool  place  for  winter ;  a  pyramid  is 
beautiful  on  a  table. 

Frozen  Jelly. — Freeze  calves-foot  jelly  in  the  same  manner  as 
ice  cream ;  it  will  not  mould  but  looks  beautifully.  See  Calves-foot 
Jelly. 

To  make  a  Pyramid  of  Kisses. — Make  a  pasteboard  frame,  and 
stick  the  kisses  together  as  fast  as  they  come  from  the  oven  ;  as  soon 
as  cold,  or  just  before  using,  remove  the  form  carefully. 

Ice  Cream. — The  freezer  must  be  free  from  rust.  It  will  take  a 
peck  of  coarse  salt  to  freeze  two  gallons.  The  ice  must  be  «pounded 
fine,  mixed  with  salt  and  packed  around  the  freezer,  which  must 
stand  in  a  tub;  the  brine  should  be  saved,  and  allowed  to  dry  by 
evaporation,  or  be  thrown  in  the  garden  where  needed.  It  is  also 
useful  to  throw  on  pavement  to  destroy  the  grass  between  the  bricks. 
The  freezer  should  be  turned  half  round  and  back,  until  the  whole  is 
so  nearly  frozen  as  to  remain  stiff.  Cut  the  cream  every  ten  minutes 
from  the  sides  of  the  freezer  with  a  long  thin  shovel  made  of  wood ; 
if  a  knife  is  used,  the  tin  is  scratched,  and  the  scrapings  mixed  with 
the  cream ;  beat  it  well  every  time  the  cream  is  cut.  If  lemon  or 
the  juice  of  any  acid  fruit  is  added,  it  should  be  at  the  last  cutting, 
as  the  cream  will  sour  if  it  is  put  in  before  freezing.  If  it  is  to  be 
moulded,  put  it  in  the  moulds  just  before  it  becomes  solid,  pack  it 
tight,  and  cover  the  moulds  in  ice  and  salt.    When  the  cream  is 


196 

solid,  cover  the  freezer  with  ice  and  salt  until  wanted ;  if  there  is 
an  ice-house,  it  will  keep  any  length  of  time.  Great  care  must  be 
taken,  when  opening  the  freezer,  not  to  drop  any  of  the  brine  in 
it,  as  this  would  ruin  it  entirely ;  when  to  be  taken  out  for  the  table, 
wrap  two  or  three  towels  around  the  freezer  dipped  in  boiling 
water,  or  dip  the  freezer  in  and  out  a  kettle  of  hot  water  quick- 
ly once  or  twice,  and  turn  it  on  a  platter.  The  faster  the  ice 
melts,  the  sooner  the  cream  will  freeze.  In  summer  twenty  minutes 
will  be  long  enough  after  the  freezer  is  packed ;  in  winter  it  takes 
longer.  With  the  old-fashioned  freezers  there  is  much  more  ice  re- 
quired than  with  the  new  patents.  It  would  be  economy  to  buy  one 
of  the  new  style  if  much  cream  is  frozen  in  the  family. 

Ice  Cream,  No.  1. — Boil  two  quarts  of  milk ;  thicken  with  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  and,  when  cool,  add  one  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten ;  flavor  with 
vanilla,  or  lemon,  or  both. 

Supeeioe  Ice  Ceeam,  No.  2. — Take  three  quarts  of  very  rich 
cream,  it  must  if  possible  all  be  of  the  same  age,  and  perfectly  sweet ; 
beat  it  until  it  is  as  stiff  as  possible ;  the  easiest  way  to  do  it  is  in  a 
small  churn.  Boil  two  quarts  of  morning's  milk  over  water,  thicken 
with  wheat  flour  to  the  consistency  of  thin  cream,  cook  thoroughly ; 
add  one  and  a  quarter  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar,  lemon  and 
vanilla,  mixed  or  separate,  as  desired ;  strain  this  through  a  hair 
sieve,  and  mix  it  with  the  beaten  cream.  Mix  thoroughly,  then 
taste  it ;  if  too  sweet  to  suit,  add  more  milk  or  cream ;  if  not 
sweet  enough,  more  sugar.  It  should  be  much  sweeter  than  would 
relish  before  freezing  ;  it  loses  both  flavoring  and  sweetness  in 
freezing.  Be  careful  not  to  beat  the  cream  to  butter,  some  cows' 
milk  churns  in  a  short  time.  This  rule  makes  from  eight  to  ten 
quarts,  according  to  the  lightness  of  the  cream.  If  the  creani  is  thin 
increase  the  quantity. 

Ice  Cream  without  Ceeam,  No.  3. — Take  new  milk,  scald  half 
of  it,  and  thicken  it  with  flour ;  let  it  boil  until  all  the  raw  taste  of  the 
flour  disappears,  and  the  whole  is  smooth  and  as  thick  as  the  thickest 
cream ;  stir  it  while  hot  in  the  other  part  of  the  milk,  little  by  little; 
flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla,  half  and  half ;  sweeten  very  sweet,  and 
strain  the  whole  through  a  sieve.  The  milk  should  be  boiled  over 
water  for  fear  of  scorching,  and  the  flour  thoroughly  oooked  in  it, 


CONFECTIONERIES,    CREAMS,    ETC.  197 

/ 

or  it  will  be  very  poor.     If  this  is  made  properly,  it  will  be  taken  for 
ricb  cream  ;  it  freezes  very  smoothly. 

Frozen  Custard. — Prepare  a  nice  boiled  custard  and  freeze  as 
ice  cream ;  call  it  frozen  custard,  not  ice  cream. 

Quick  Ice  Cream,  No.  4. — Take  a  pint  of  rich  sweet  cream, 
sweeten  veiy  sweet,  and  flavor  as  relished  with  vanilla,  lemon,  or 
bitter  almonds,  very  strong ;  beat  the  whole  to  a  froth,  and  stir  into 
it  sufficient  light  dry  snow  to  make  it  stiff,  and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  A.'s  Ice  Cream. — Two  quarts  of  new  milk,  two  quarts  of 
sweet  cream,  one  quart  of  pulverized  loaf  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  bitter  almonds,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  wheat  flour.  Boil  one  quart  of  the  milk,  mix  the  flour 
in  half  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  and  add  it  to  that  boiling;  stir  constantly 
until  well  cooked,  then  thin  the  thickened  milk  with  half  a  pint  of 
cold  milk ;  beat  the  eggs  as  light  as  possible  without  separating,  stir 
into  them  half  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  beat  the  eggs  and  milk  well  to- 
gether, and  add  them  to  the  thickened  milk ;  beat  the  thickened  milk 
and  egg  briskly  three  minutes,  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  the 
sugar ;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  the  custard  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  when  cool  add  the  extracts.  Beat  the  cream  until  light 
and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients  after  they  are  in  the  freezer ;  this 
is  an  excellent  rule.  Freeze  as  usual ;  if  patent  freezers  are  used, 
the  cream  will  not  require  beating. 

Coffee  Cream. — Take  very  rich  cream,  beat  it  well,  and  sweeten 
very  sweet  with  powdered  loaf-sugar.  Prepare  in  the  best  manner 
a  decoction  of  very  strong  coffee  ;  it  must  be  very  clear ;  stir  sufficient 
into  the  cream  to  flavor  it  highly  and  freeze ;  it  will  be  a  darkish 
color,  but  is  highly  esteemed  by  gentlemen. 

Chocolate  Cream. — This  is  made  as  above,  using  the  chocolate 
instead  of  coffee. 

Brandt  Cream,  a  Dessert  of  1818. — Heat  one  quart  of  good 
sweet  cream  from  the  previous  night's  milking,  boiling  hot;  have 
ready  three  thoroughly  beaten  eggs,  take  the  cream  from  the  fire  and 
stir  in  the  eggs.  Dissolve  loaf-sugar  to  suit  the  taste  in  half  a  pint  of 
French  brandy ;  when  cold  stir  in  the  brandy  and  sugar,  beat  well, 
and  serve  in  glasses.    It  is  proper  for  either  dinner  or  evening  parties. 


198  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Orange  Ice  Cream. — Fill  the  freezer  nearly  full  of  rich  cream, 
well  beat  and  sweetened ;  •  do  not  flavor  with  any  thing  but  oraDge 
peel.  This  can  best  be  obtained  by  rubbing  lump  sugar  on  the  out- 
side of  the  oranges,  and  extracting  from  them  the  oil  of  the  skin. 
When  the  cream  is  nearly  congealed,  add  as  much  juice  from  oranges 
strained  and  sweetened  as  desired;  mix  it  well,  and  let  the  whole 
freeze. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream. — Pine  apple,  raspberry,  cherry,  or  any 
other  juice, or  syrup,  can  be  used  in  the  same  manner,  if  not  too  acid. 

Frozen  Fruit. — Mash  any  fruit  and  freeze  it;  serve  with  ice 
cream ;  oranges  are  superior. 

Fruit  Ice. — Make  an  ade  of  any  fruit  as  you  would  lemonade,  but 
much  richer,  and  freeze  it.  It  is  very  excellent.  This  can  be  pre- 
pared from  syrups,  if  they  are  made  from  the  fruits ;  many  pre- 
servers make  syrups  from  extracts. 

French  Method  of  Icing  Cake. — Eight  ounces  of  fine  loaf-sugar 
beat  in  a  mortar,  with  four  spoonfuls  of  rose  water,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  strained.  Beat 
the  ingredients  well  together,  and  cover  the  cake,  when  half  cold, 
with  a  paste  brush ;  set  it  in  a  cool  oven  to  dry  the  icing.  It  will 
become  solid  in  one  hour. 

Common  Icing. — Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
until  they  will  remain  on  an  inverted  plate ;  beat  into  them,  one  table- 
spoonful  at  a  time,  twelve  heaping  table-spoonfuls  of  fine  sugar,  and 
one  of  powdered  starch ;  the  sugar  and  starch  should  be  passed  through 
a  sieve  made  of  bolting  cloth,  and  by  heaping  is  meant  as  much  as  can 
possibly  be  made  to  lie  on  a  spoon  without  packing ;  if  desired,  flavor 
with  lemon  juice,  a  little  extract  of  lemon,  vanilla,  bitter  almond,  or, 
if  desired  to  color  it,  add  a  little  juice  from  the  strawberry  or  any  other 
fruit.  Allow  three  eggs  for  two  common  sized  cakes ;  spread  evenly 
with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water  and  shook,  that  no  water  can  mix 
with  the  frosting.  It  is  not  considered  genteel  now  to  ornament  with 
colored  candies ;  the  only  kinds  of  candies  now  tolerated  are  the  fine 
French  sorts  of  fruits,  birds,  etc.  Always  spread  frosting  on  cake 
when  partly  cold,  and  set  it  in  the  sun  by  the  window  to  dry.  It  will 
take  longer  than  in  the  oven,  but  it  is  often  scorched,  and  for  that 
reason  it  is  better  to  avoid  it  if  possible ;  if  frosting  is  left,  drop  it  on 
papers  and  bake  it. 


CONFECTIONERIES,    CREAMS,    ETC.  199 

To  Prepare  Cake  for  Frosting. — Turn  it  upside  down,  if  very 
large,  on  a  whitewood  board ;  dredge  it  all  over  with  flour,  let  it 
remain  on  fifteen  minutes,  then  wipe  it  off.  This  removes  the  grease, 
and  makes  the  frosting  adhere  better ;  commence  by  pouring  a  quantity 
on  the  centre  of  the  cake,  dip  a  knife  in  cold  water,  smooth  it  down, 
and  let  it  dry. 

Confectioners'  Icing. — To  every  egg  beaten  stiff  allow  four 
ounces  of  fine  powdered  loaf-sugar,  powder  as  much  gum-arabic  as 
will  lie  on  a  shilling  in  a  teaspoonful  of  rose  water,  or  any  other 
light-colored  extract,  or  lemon  juice.  We  prefer  the  latter,  as  it 
makes  the  icing  more  adhesive.  Strain  the  eggs  to  remove  the 
stringy  substance  in  them,  beat  until  they  will  remain  on  an  inverted 
plate,  and  then  stir  in  gradually  the  sugar,  gum-arabic,  and  lemon 
juice ;  ice  as  already  described.  "When  the  cake  is  to  be  ornamented 
with  the  icing  in  wreaths,  dissolve  gum-tragacanth,  and  stir  a  little 
in  the  frosting.  Pick  the  gum  clean,  and  wash  it ;  allow  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  to  a  gill  of  boiling  water,  if  wanted  for  immediate  use ;  it 
takes  some  time  to  dissolve.  The  icing  can  be  made  into  forms  by 
moulding,  or  can  be  put  on  with  a  small  syringe.  The  ornamental 
icing  is  not  put  on  until  the  covering  of  the  cake  is  nearly  dry. 

Lemon  Macaroons. — Eub  off  the  rind  from  a  large  fine  lemon  on 
lumps  of  loaf-sugar ;  roll  the  sugar,  and  add  enough  of  powdered  loaf- 
sugar  to  make  a  quarter  of  a  pound.  Then  strain  the  lemon  juice 
through  a  strainer.  Beat  light  four  eggs,  stir  the  sugar  in  the  eggs, 
and  beat  well.  Then  add  the  lemon  juice,  and  three  large  heaping 
table-spoonfuls  of  flour  ;  mix  the  whole  thoroughly.  It  must  be  thick 
enough  to  form  into  balls ;  if  not,  add  flour  until  it  will.  Moisten 
your  hands  with  cold  water,  and  form  the  paste  into  balls  the  size  of 
a  plum ;  lay  them  on  buttered  papers  and  bake  without  browning. 
You  will  be  obliged  to  try  one,  to  see  if  it  is  done.  As  soon  as  done, 
remove  them  from  the  paper  with  a  knife. 

Orange  Macaroons. — Make  in  the  same  manner,  using  the  rind 
of  half  an  orange,  and  the  juice  of  one. 

Vanilla  Macaroons. — Boil  just  as  little  milk  over  water  in  a 
small  vessel  as  will  cover  a  vanilla  bean,  and  mix  it  with  the  egg. 
Make  as  Lemon  Macaroons.  --— - 

Almond  Macaroons  can  be  made  in  the  same  manner,  making  balls 


200 

instead  of  cakes.    Cocoanut  can  also  be  used  in  the  same  way,  as 
indeed  can  any  nut. 

Pop-Cokn  Cakes. — Prepare  the  eggs  and  sugar  as  for  lemon  mac- 
aroons, and  bake  without  browning;  the  balls  must  not  be  larger 
than  plums. 

WEST  INDIA  SWEETMEATS. 

Pineapple.  The  best  Way  of  preserving,  when  not  Decayed 
in  the  Least,  No.  1. — Select  ripe  pineapples  entirely  free  from  blem- 
ishes. Do  not  break  them,  or  remove  the  leaves.  Put  them  in  a 
large  pot  filled  with  water,  and  cover  tight.  Boil,  until  tender 
enough  to  run  a  splinter  through  them.  Take  them  from  the  water, 
let  them  cool,  then  peel  and  cut  them  in  round  slices,  and  take  out  the 
cores  with  a  round  tin  tube.  The  slices  should  be  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick.  Weigh  the  fruit,  allow  the  same  weight  of  the  best  sugar. 
It  should  be  No.  1,  Gkanulated.  Spread  a  little  on  the  bottom  of 
the  jar  or  dish  which  is  to  contain  them.  Lay  in  a  layer  of  fruit,  then 
a  layer  of  sugar,  and  so  on  until  the  whole  is  in.  Let  it  remain  un- 
til the  whole  of  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  then  drain  off  the  syrup,  and 
strain  it.  Set  the  jar  (it  should  be  glass)  in  cold  water.  Let  it  re- 
main until  the  water  boils ;  then  set  it  off  with  the  water  in  which  it 
was  heated.  Have  the  syrup  on  the  fire  heating,  at  the  same  time  the 
jar  is  heating.  Place  the  fruit  in  the  jar,  and  leave  it  in  the  hot 
water ;  then  fill  up  with  the  syrup  boiling  hot.  Set  the  kettle  on  the 
fire  again,  until  the  water  boils.  Cork,  and  paste  white  paper  over 
the  jar,  wet  with  the  beaten  white  of  egg,  press  the  edges  firm,  and 
then  put  on  another  paper  covered  inside  and  out  with  the  egg ;  keep 
it  in  a  cool  place.  The  jar  should  be  small,  as  it  will  soon  work  after 
opening.    This  is  as  fine  as  any  India  preserved  pineapple. 

Pineapples  without  Cooking,  No.  2. — Peel  very  ripe  pineapples, 
cut  them  in  slices,  take  out  the  cores,  and  weigh  the  fruit ;  allow 
a  pound  of  double-refined  loaf-sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Spread 
the  sugar  evenly  over  the  fruit ;  pack  it  in  layers,  and  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours ;  then  drain  off  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  as  long  as 
any  impurities  rise  to  the  surface,  skim  it  constantly,  and  pour  it  over 
the  fruit  boiling  hot ;  seal  as  directed  in  Pineapple,  No.  1. 

Fresh  Pineapple,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No.  1. — Peel,  and  cut 
the  fruit  in  circular  pieces,  about  one-third  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut 
these  pieces  in  quarters.  Pack  them  close  in  bottles,  and  fill  up  with 
filtered  rain-water,  so  as  to  come  within  one  inch  of  the  cork.    Put  in 


CONFECTIONERIES,    CREAMS,    ETC.  201 

the  cork  tightly,  and  wire  it  well ;  then  set  the  bottles  in  the  water- 
bath,  until  the  fruit  has  heated  through.  The  water  must  be  cold 
when  the  bottles  are  put  in  the  bath.  They  will  need  to  boil  about 
half  an  hour.  Hermetically  seal  the  bottles  as  soon  as  taken  from 
the  bath. 

Hermetically-sealed  Pineapples  in  Tin  Cans,  No.  2. — Prepare 
the  fruit  as  directed  in  No.  1.  Fill  the  cans  as  full  as  they  can  be 
packed,  as  the  fruit  would  naturally  lie.  Add  to  each  can  a  half- 
pound  of  loaf-sugar  and  a  gill  of  water.  Solder  on  the  covers,  and 
let  them  remain  in  the  bath  until  the  air  is  all  exhausted,  which  will 
be  in  about  half  an  hour  after  the  fruit  boils.  Then  solder  up  the 
small  hole  left  in  the  can  to  let  out  the  air.  Mark  the  cans  and  set 
them  away.  If  the  ends  of  the  cans  are  not  drawn  in,  there  is  some  im- 
perfection ;  either  the  air  was  not  exhausted,  or  the  can  is  imperfect. 

Pineapple  Jelly. — This  is  set  with  isinglass.  To  every  quart 
of  syrup  allow  one  ounce  of  shred  isinglass.  To  make  the  syrup, 
allow  to  a  pint  of  juice  a  pound  of  the  best  loaf-sugar. 

Pineapple  Marmalade. — To  every  pound  of  grated  pineapple 
allow  a  pound  of  double-refined  loaf-sugar.  Boil  until  thick ;  then 
pack  in  tumblers,  and  paste  over  them  papers  wet  with  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.     Keep  in  a  dry  cool  place  until  wanted. 

To  Preserve  Green  Ginger,  No.  1. — Scrape  the  root  clean,  weigh 
it,  and  allow  the  same  weight  in  loaf-sugar  that  there  is  of  ginger. 
Boil  the  ginger  until  it  can  be  pierced  with  a  splinter.  To  every 
pound  of  sugar  allow  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Boil  the  syrup  over  boiling  water,  remove  all  the 
scum,  and  scald  the  ginger  in  the  syrup.  As  sofln  as  it  becomes  boiling 
hot,  put  it  in  bottles,  and  seal  it  with  paper  wet  in  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs. 

Preserved  Green  Ginger,  No.  2. — Prepare  as  above  the  ginger 
and  syrup.  Boil  in  the  syrup  one  lemon  peel  and  juice  to  every 
three  pounds  of  fruit ;  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  for  every  pint  of  lemon 
juice.  Strain  out  all  the  seeds  before  putting  the  lemon  in  the  syrup. 
It  can  be  varied  with  pineapple  or  orange. 

Oraxge  Marmalade. — Strain  the  juice,  and  rub  the  pulp  through 
a  wire  sieve  ;  add  to  every  pound  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar.     Boil  until 
solid ;   try  it  often,  to  know  when  it  is  sufficiently  cooked.    "When 
9* 


202  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

done,  put  it  in  tumblers,  and  paste  papers  over  them  with  the  whites 
of  eggs.    Keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 

American  Citron. — Pare  ripe  citron  melons,  and  cut  them  in  any 
form  desired;  small  half-moon-shaped  pieces  will  cut  to  the  most 
advantage  from  a  melon.  They  should  be  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
before  boiling.  Boil  in  soda  water  until  tender ;  when  a  straw  will 
pass  through  them,  skim  them  out,  and  lay  them  in  weak  alum  water. 
Let  them  remain  three  or  four  hours;  then  throw  them  in  cold 
water  for  another  hour.  Dissolve  a  tablespoonful  of  citric  acid  in  a 
quart  of  water ;  lay  in  the  citron.  There  should  be  just  enough  water  to 
cover  them.  The  next  morning  take  them  from  the  acid  water,  meas- 
ure the  water,  and  allow,  for  a  quart,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  and  the 
same  weight  of  citron,  weighed  after  boiling,  etc.  Or  weigh  the  citron, 
and  allow  the  same  weight  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  acid  water,  for  every 
two  pounds.  Boil  the  syrup,  and  remove  the  scum.  When  it  is  clear, 
put  in  the  citron,  and  let  it  remain  until  the  sugar  has  penetrated  it 
thoroughly ;  then  pack  it  in  jars.  Boil  the  syrup  until  it  will  make 
a  thread  between  the  thumb  and  finger,  {see  Syrup,)  and  pour  it  in 
the  jars.  If  you  have  ginger  sweetmeats,  put  two  or  three  bits  in 
each  jar ;  if  not,  flavor  with  extract  of  ginger.  Add  to  each  quart  jar 
a  table-spoonful  of  strong  extract  of  lemon-peel,  and  seal  the  jars,  as 
soon  as  filled,  with  paper  wet  in  egg.    Keep  cool  and  dry. 

Green  Tomatoes  to  resemble  India  Sweetmeats. — Take  small 
plum  or  pear-shaped  tomatoes,  when  perfectly  green.  Weigh  them. 
Allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to  one  of  fruit ;  add  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  and  enough  water  with  the  juice,  to  allow  a  pint  of  fluid  to 
every  two  pounds  of  ,sugar.  Put  in  a  preserving  kettle  the  lemon- 
peel  and  pulp,  chopped  fine,  but  not  the  seeds,  and  a  handful  of  ginger 
root ;  boil  these  until  the  water  is  highly  flavored.  Then,  while  hot, 
throw  in  a  handful  of  peach  leaves.  Let  it  remain  in  the  kettle,  if  a 
porcelain  one,  until  morning ;  if  brass,  pour  it  into  an  earthen  dish.  The 
next  morning  strain  the  water ;  pick  out  the  lemon  and  ginger,  and 
throw  it  back  in  the  water.  Line  the  kettle  with  grape  leaves,  and 
lay  in  the  tomatoes ;  cover  with  leaves,  and  add  another  layer,  until  the 
whole  are  in.  Then  pour  over  them  hot,  but  not  boiling  water.  Set 
the  kettle  where  it  will  heat  gradually ;  when  hot,  but  before  the  fruit 
breaks,  take  it  from  the  fire.  Let  them  cool,  and  heat  again  and  again 
until  green.  The  best  way  to  heat  them  is  over  hot  water,  Then 
strain  the  water  containing  lemon  and  ginger,  and  if  not  highly  flavor- 


CONFECTIONERIES,    CREAMS,    ETC.  203 

ed,  boil  it  again  before  straining.  There  should  be  a  pint  of  water  to 
every  four  pounds  of  sugar.  If  too  much,  boil  it  away.  After  it  is 
strained,  mix  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice  with  it.  Let  it  boil  up  and 
skim  it.  Then  remove  the  tomatoes  from  the  grape  leaves ;  wash  them, 
and  roll  in  a  towel  gently  without  breaking.  Prick  them  two  or  three 
times  with  a  coarse  needle.  Cool  the  syrup,  and  put  them  in ;  set  the 
kettle  over  water ;  let  them  simmer  until  the  sugar  has  penetrated 
them.  Kemove  the  kettle,  let  them  remain  overnight  in  the  syrup. 
In  the  latter  part  of  the  forenoon  put  them  over  again.  Let  them 
nearly  boil,  take  them  off  the  fire,  and  set  them  on  hot  water  an 
hour.  Then  skim  them  out.  Boil  and  skim  the  syrup ;  when  no 
scum  arises,  put  them  back ;  let  them  boil  up,  and  put  them  in  the 
jars.  Cover  with  paper  wet  with  egg.  If  you  have  preserved  ginger 
or  ginger  root,  and  a  strong  extract  of  lemon,  put  the  peach-leaves 
in  water,  and  scald  them.  Pour  the  water  on  the  tomatoes  hot ;  let 
them  remain  over  a  kettle  of  water  an  hour.  Then  put  them  in  the 
grape-leaves,  as  directed.  Heat  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice  over  water. 
Blanch  a  dozen  peach-pits  to  every  jar ;  lay  them  in  the  syrup.  Cook 
the  tomatoes  in  the  syrup,  as  directed  ;  cut  up  the  ginger,  and  put  it 
in  the  jars,  and  add  a  table-spoonful,  or  more,  if  needed,  of  lemon  ex- 
tract to  each  jar.  The  syrup  will  be  much  lighter  made  with  extract 
and  preserves.  Extract  of  cinnamon  would  do  also,  and  tartaric  or 
citric  acid  instead  of  lemon  juice.  This  will  be  found  a  beautiful 
sweetmeat  resembling  the  India  Sweetmeats. 

Preserved  Citron  or  Nutmeg  Mttskmelon. — Take  melons  that 
have  a  fine  spicy  flavor,  nearly  ripe,  but  before  they  mellow  in  the 
least.  Cut  them  in  halves ;  take  out  the  seeds,  and  scrape  off  the 
outside  rough  skin.  Cut  them  in  quarters,  and  lay  them  in  weak 
brine  all  night.  The  next  morning  throw  them  in  alum  water,  for 
an  hour.  Then  pack  them  in  peach  leaves,  pour  boiling  water  on 
them,  and  let  them  get  cool.  Boil  the  water  again,  and  pour  over 
them.  Then  boil  them  in  water,  strongly  spiced  with  ginger,  nutmeg, 
cinnamon,  mace,  a  very  few  cloves,  and  a  handful  of  coriander  seed. 
The  spices  must  be  well  balanced,  so  as  not  to  taste  of  one  more  than 
another;  to  give  the  melon,  as  near  as  possible,  its  own  spicy  flavor,  a 
dozen  cloves  will  be  enough  for  two  quarts  of  water.  Prepare  a  rich 
syrup.  When  the  melons  have  become  boiling  hot  in  the  spice  water, 
take  them  from  the  fire,  and  let  them  cool  in  the  water.  Then  simmer 
them  in  the  syrup,  until  the  sugar  has  penetrated  them  perfectly.  The 
melon  will  be  less  apt  to  break,  if  simmered  over  hot  water.     There 


204  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

should  be  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  there  are  of  melon,  and  a  pint 
of  water  to  every  two  pounds  of  sugar.  Seal  up  the  jars  while  boiling 
hot,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Preserved  Muskmelon,  No.  2. — Another  method  is,  after  soaking 
in  the  brine,  etc.,  to  boil  them  with  ginger  and  peach  leaves,  until 
tender,  but  not  so  as  to  break ;  and  afterward  in  syrup,  made  as 
described  in  No.  1,  flavored  with  ginger  and  lemon.  Seal  the  jars 
while  hot,  and  there  will  be  very  little  danger  of  fermentation.  Some 
persons  are  very  fond  of  these  kinds  of  sweetmeats.  They  are  con- 
venient at  the  Far  West,  where  it  is  difficult  to  get  fruit. 

Pumpkin  Chips. — Saturate  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  you  have 
prepared  of  pumpkin  in  lemon  juice,  (citric  or  tartaric  acid,  if  you 
have  no  lemons.)  Pour  it  over  the  pumkpin,  which  should  be  cut  in 
any  shape  desired.  The  most  convenient  would  be  round,  cut  with 
a  canister  top,  or  cracker-cutter ;  let  it  remain  twenty-four  hours. 
Blanch  a  dozen  peach-pits,  or  bitter  almonds,  to  every  pound  of  sugar. 
Drain  the  pumpkin  and  heat  the  syrup,  put  in  the  peach-pits ;  add 
for  every  two  pounds  eight  cloves,  a  half  nutmeg  pounded,  or  a  tea- 
spoon of  mace  rolled,  a  table-spoonful  of  broken  cinnamon,  and  a  half 
of  a  vanilla  bean.  Put  in  the  pumpkin ;  let  it  simmer  over  water  nntil 
thoroughly  saturated  with  the  syrup,  and  quite  tender.  Then  remove 
it  to  the  jars,  and  keep  them  hot  while  the  syrup  cooks.  Boil  it  until 
it  will  form  a  thread  with  your  thumb  and  finger,  then  pour  it  on  the 
pumpkin,  straining  it  free  from  every  thing  except  the  pits  and  vanilla 
bean ;  seal  up  while  hot,  and  keep  cool. 


CHAPTER    XIII. 

TEA. 
description  of  plant,  preparation  for  market,  varieties,  steeping,  eto 

The  plant  which  produces  tea  is  grown  in  small  plantations  by 
natives,  little  above  the  class  of  peasants.  It  is  a  native  of  China 
and  Japan,  and  belongs,  in  the  Linnsean  system,  to  the  class  and 
order  of  Monadelphia  Polyandria,  and,  in  the  system  of  Jussieu,  to 
the  natural  order  of  Aurantiacece.  It  has  since  been  made  into  a  new 
order  called  Theasia,  which  includes  camellia  and  some  other  plants. 


TEA.  205 

It  is  an  evergreen  tree  or  shrub,  resembling  the  myrtle  in  its  leaves 
and  general  appearance ;  the  flowers,  which  are  not  unlike  our  wild 
rose,  though  smaller,  are  white  and  fragrant.  The  capsules,  which 
contain  from  one  to  three  white  seeds,  are  soft  and  green,  containing 
oilj  which  is  obtained  by  crushing,  and  used  generally  in  China.  The 
black  and  green  were  once  thought  to  be  two  distinct  species,  but 
botanists  have  decided  them  to  be  one,  divided  into  several  varieties, 
by  cultivation,  soil,  etc.,  with  only  two  of  which  we  are  familiar ;  the 
black  with  broad,  and  the  green  with  narrow,  leaves.  The  best  black 
tea  is  grown  in  Tokien  and  Canton ;  the  best  green  in  the  district  of 
Hoey-chow-foo,  in  a  soil  of  decomposed  granite  and  feldspar,  the  same 
mineral  from  which  the  best  porcelain  cups  are  manufactured. 

The  finest  black  tea  is  manufactured  from  the  youngest  leaves, 
which  are  gathered  at  four  different  periods.  The  best  black  brought 
to  this  market  is  the  Souchong ;  this  tea  is  quite  small,  of  a  greenish 
color  when  steeped,  and  the  flavor  agreeable. 

Congou  is  much  more  imported  than  the  Souchong;  the  best 
kind  is  Campo  Congou ;  it  has  an  agreeable  flavor,  but  the  poorest 
much  resembles  Bohea,  which  is  the  worst  of  all  black  teas. 

The  Hysons  are  the  best  green  teas  brought  to  this  market ;  when 
good,  the  flavor  is  superior,  and  the  infusion  a  fine  green.  Pearl 
gunpowder  stands  first,  Imperial  gunpowder  next,  then  the  varieties 
of  Hyson,  and,  lastly,  Hyson  skin.  These  are  the  best ;  but,  of  course, 
there  are  many  sub-varieties  not  enumerated.  Green  tea  depends 
more  on  soil  and  culture,  than  stages  of  picking,  and  there  is  a  differ- 
ence in  the  manner  of  curing,  but  there  is  no  copper  used  in  drying 
either.  The  English  have  endeavored  to  manufacture  teas  from  other 
leaves,  some  of  which  are  poisonous,  and  use  copper  to  give  them 
the  color  of  green  tea ;  it  is  easy  to  detect  copper,  if  any  exists,  in 
the  tea  by  the  following  method  :  Steep  the  tea,  and  put  some  into 
water,  impregnated  with  sulphureted  hydrogen ;  if  the  tea  contains 
copper,  it  will  turn  black ;  if  not,  no  change  will  be  seen,  the  in- 
fusion remaining  green  as  before. 

To  Choose  Tea. — Select  tea  as  whole  as  possible,  of  agreeable 
odor,  and  that  has  not  been  exposed  to  the  air ;  if  bought  by  the 
chest,  take  out  what  is  needed  for  present  use,  and  close  the  chest  as 
tightly  as  possible. 

To  Peepaee  Geeen  Tea. — There  is  as  much  difference  in  the  prep- 
aration of  tea  as  coffee.    The  best  teas  can  be  ruined  by  steeping, 


206  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

so  that  an  experienced  tea-drinker  would  be  puzzled  to  distinguish 
gunpowder  from  Bohea.     It  is  a  poor  plan  to  steep  tea  in  the  tea- 
pot ;  the  pot  is  apt  to  receive  injury  by  standing  on  the  stove ;  if  of 
metal,  is  likely  to  melt,  or  get  bruised ;    if  of   earthenware,  to  be 
seared,  or  cracked  by  the  heat ;  the  inside  will  become  coated,  and 
is  soon  discolored  by  the  steam  settling  in  the  hinge  of  the  lid,  looking 
any  thing  but  neatly  on  the  table ;  the  spout,  too,  if  as  small  as  is 
usual,  will  close,  so  that  the  liquid  will  hardly  pass  through ;  and  this 
coating  can  only  be  removed  by  boiling  the  pot  in  strong  lye,  which 
injures  the  metal  much.    Have  made  a  tin  pint  cup  with  a  handle, 
and  tight-fitting  cover  on  a  hinge,  in  which  to  steep  the  tea.    This 
little  tea-steeper  must  be  scalded  and  dried  every  time  it  is  used,  or 
it  will  soon  rust,  and  give  the  tea  a  bad  flavor.    Pour  boiling  water 
into  the  steeper  before  putting  in  the  tea,  that  the  water  may  not 
cool,  when  poured  over  it.     Allow  one  teaspoonful  for  three  cups, 
that  is  about  one  spoonful  to  a  person ;  fill  the  steeper  half  full  of 
water,  boiling  hot ;    let  it  stand  on  the  hearth  from  five  to  fifteen 
minutes,  where  it  will  remain  hot,  not  boiling.    Pour  into  the  teapot 
boiling  water  to  stand  while  the  tea  is  steeping ;  throw  out  this  water, 
pour  in  the  tea-grounds  and  all;  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  boiling 
water  to  every  teaspoonful  of  tea.    Have  a  water-pot  filled  with  boiling 
water ;  fill  each  cup  half  full  with  the  infusion,  then  add  the  boiling 
water  until  they  are  nearly  filled.     Sugar  should  be  put  in  the  cup 
before  the  tea,  if  relished,  and  cream  after  the  water.    Have  the  water- 
pot  filled  again,  before  replenishing  the  cups ;  pour  into  each  cup  a 
little  hot  water,  and  throw  it,  with  the  sediment  from  the  previous 
filling,  into  the  slop-bowl,  which  should  always  be  on  the  tray,  and  fill 
the  cups  as  at  first ;  the  same  also  with  the  third.     This  will  equalize 
the  tea,  not  giving  the  whole  strength  of  the  infusion  in  the  first  cup, 
and  warm  colored  water  for  the  other  two.    The  tea-kettle  should  be 
boiling,  while  the  tea  is  being  served  to  fill  up  the  pot.     Spring  is  the 
best  water  for  tea ;  filtered  rain  next ;  lime  water,  if  used,  soon  crusts 
fover  the  kettle ;  it  is  well  to  rinse  it  every  time  it  is  used,  and  absolutely 
necessary  to  do  this  once  every  day.     Some  tea  requires  more  steeping 
than  others ;  the  housekeeper  can  determine  by  the  appearance  of  the 
infusion ;  in  green  tea,  the  liquid  should  be  greenish ;  if  steeped  too 
long,  it  turns  a  dark  color ;   if  in  fifteen  minutes  the  tea  becomes 
dark,  steep  less  time ;  fifteen  minutes  will  be  sufficient  time  for  tea 
requiring  the  longest  steeping ;  some  teas  requiring  only  three  minutes, 
Host  requiring  five.    The  tea-kettle  should  but  just  boil ;  do  not  use 
water  that  has  boiled  a  long  time  for  tea. 


TEA.  207 

To  Peepabe  Black  Tea. — Use  a  steeper  as  in  green  tea ;  black 
and  green  should  never  be  steeped  in  the  same  vessel.  Prepare  both 
steeper  and  pot  as  described  before,  but  black  tea  wants  boiling  from 
three. to  five  minutes  hard;  three  is  usually  suffici en t.  Some  prefer 
steeping  black  tea  in  the  same  manner  as  green.  Black  tea  is  much 
lighter  than  green ;  and,  of  course,  more  by  measure  should  be 
allowed  to  each  person.  The  best  loaf-sugar  only  should  be  tolerated 
in  tea,  and  cream  is  as  much  better  than  milk,  for  those  who  relish  it, 
as  in  coffee.  There  are  so  many  persons  now  who  use  but  one  variety, 
that  it  is  well,  when  company  are  present,  to  steep  both  black  and 
green,  that  all  may 'make  a  choice.  Serve  the  same  as  green,  putting 
the  cream  in  the  cup  before  pouring  in  the  tea.  There  is  an  article, 
now  sold  by  grocers,  called  Breakfast  Tea  ;  it  is  a  mixture  of  green 
and  black ;  prepare  as  black  tea,  as  this  has  the  most  prominence  in 
its  appearance  and  flavor.  Throw  out  the  cold  tea,  rinse  and  scald  the 
pot  after  using.    It  ruins  teapots  to  stand  with  cold  tea. 


CHAPTER    XIV. 

*      COFFEE. 

DESCRIPTION   OF    PLANT,    PREPARATION    FOR    MARKET,   VARIETIES,   BROWNING, 
GRINDING,  PREPARATION   FOR   TABLE,    ETC. 

Description  of  Plant. — The  coffee  tree  is  a  native  of  warm  cli- 
mates. It  belongs  to  the  natural  order  of  Rabiacem.  Its  height  is 
from  twelve  to  fifteen  feet.  The  tree  resembles  the  laurel,  although 
the  leaves  are  thinner  and  rather  more  pointed.  The  flowers,  which 
are  white,  growing  from  the  angles  of  the  leaf  stalk,  resemble  the 
jasmine,  and  are  produced  in  such  profusion  and  rapidity  as  in  a 
single  night  to  resemble  a  fall  of  snow ;  they  are,  however,  very  short- 
lived, lasting  but  a  few  days.  When  the  blossoms  fall,  a  berry  appears, 
resembling,  when  ripe,  the  cherry  ;  each  of  which  contains,  enclosed 
in  a  sort  of  parchment,  two  seeds  or  beans,  the  flat  sides  being 
pressed  closely  together.  The  fruit  is  known  to  be  ripe  when  it  be- 
comes red,  and  falls  to  the  ground,  unless  gathered  immediately.  The 
tree  is  grown  from  the  seed,  and  commences  bearing  when  two 
years  old. 

Preparation  for  Market. — In  Arabia  the  fruit  is  allowed  to  fall 
on  cloths  spread  for  the  purpose,  but  in  the  "West  Indies  it  is  gathered 
by  the  negroes,  after  which  it  is  left  in  the  sun  until  fermentation 


208  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

takes  place,  and  the  sour  moisture  has  passed  off,  which  is  generally 
accomplished  in  three  or  four  days.  The  bean  is  then  gradually  dried, 
the  process  occupying  about  three  weeks,  after  which  the  husk  is 
separated  from  the  seed  by  passing  through  a  mill.  The  fruit  is  not 
always  fermented,  but  the  pulp  is  removed  by  passing  it  under  rollers, 
and  the  parchment  by  another  mill ;  the  seed  is  then  winnowed,  and, 
after  a  thorough  drying,  is  ready  for  market. 

Vakieties. — The  best  is  the  Mocha,  a  native  of  Arabia ;  the  bean  is 
smaller  and  roundei  than  any  other.  The  next  is  almost  as  good,  and 
by  some  preferred,  called  Old  Government  Java,  a  native,  as  its  name 
implies,  of  Java.  Rio  (the  poorest  in  general  use)  is  a  native  of  Rio 
Janeiro. 

Browning,  and  Preserving  the  Aroma. — Wash  coffee,  rubbing  it 
well  with  the  hands,  and  rinse  until  the  water  is  clear ;  drain  on  a  hair, 
not  wire,  sieve,  or  shake  it  in  a  coarse  towel,  dry  slowly  without  heat 
until  free  from  moisture,  then  spread  thinly,  and  keep  it  where  it  is 
just  warm,  until  perfectly  dry.  It  is  well  to  wash  and  dry  large  quan- 
tities at  one  time,  as  it  often  happens  to  be  wanted  without  sufficient 
notice  to  dry  well  before  browning.  Coffee  dried  in  this  manner  can 
be  quickly  and  thoroughly  browned,  which  is  of  the  highest  import- 
ance, if  a  first-rate  cup  of  coffee  is  desired.  When  the  coffee  is  a  long 
time  browning,  much  more  of  the  volatile  oil  is  lost  than  when  quick- 
ly done  ;  it  must  also  be  browned  to  the  centre,  or  much  waste  occurs 
from  not  getting  the  whole  strength  of  the  bean ;  when  there  is  much 
haste  in  getting  coffee  ready  to  grind,  partly  brown  it,  and  break  the  bean 
in  two  or  three  pieces  by  beating  it  in  a  mortar,  after  which  it  must 
be  finished  scorching.  When  sufficiently  roasted,  it  will  be  a  dark 
chestnut  color  from  outside  to  centre.  Before  it  becomes  cold,  put  it 
in  a  tight  vessel ;  glass  or  earthenware  is  better  than  metal.  A  vessel 
can  be  prepared  with  but  little  trouble  that  will  answer  all  purposes. 
Procure  a  thick  glass  bottle,  it  must  be  strong  to  withstand  heat ;  get 
a  tight-fitting  cork,  free  from  air  holes,  four  inches  long,  pass  a  large 
wire,  heated  red-hot,  through  the  centre,  whittle  round  a  piece  of 
strong  hickory  as  large  as  a  pipe  stem,  four  inches  longer  than  the 
cork,  leave  a  square  piece  on  one  end  to  form  a  sort  of  nut,  pass  the 
stick  through  the  cork,  the  largest  end  being  inside  the  bottle  when  it 
is  corked ;  seal  over  the  top  with  sealing-wax ;  if  any  runs  down  the 
side  scrape  it  off,  as  the  cork  should  press  the  bottle  closely ;  if  the 
glass  is  dark,  label  the  bottle.    Coffee  should  be  browned  at  least 


COFFEE.  209 

three  times  in  a  week,  and  no  matter  how  much  oftener.  It  matters 
little  by  what  mode  this  is  accomplished,  so  it  be  well  done,  whether 
in  a  moderately  quick  oven,  spread  thinly  on  iron  pans  free  from  rust, 
in  a  kettle  over  a  brisk  fire,  constantly  stirred,  or  in  a  regular  roaster ; 
the  same  object  will  be  attained,  with  care,  by  either,  and  without, 
most  certainly  ruined. 

To  Stoke  Coffee. — Coffee,  even  before  it  is  browned,  may  be 
spoiled  by  leaving  it  where  it  can  be  affected  by  unpleasant  odors,  as 
it  very  quickly  absorbs  them ;  and  yet,  when  kept  in  a  dry,  sweet  place, 
it  is  constantly  improving ;  brown  sugars,  teas,  chocolate,  spices,  herbs, 
in  short  any  strong  flavored  articles,  as  well  as  impurities,  are  injurious. 

Geindlng. — Never  grind  coffee  until  wanted ;  the  plan  adopted 
by  many  of  grinding  for  breakfast  the  evening  previous  is  wasteful. 
It  is  impossible  to  cover  it  in  a  bowl  or  cup  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
prevent  the  escape  of  the  volatile  oil,  which  gives  life  and  flavor  to 
the  coffee.  Care  must  be  taken  to  grind  it  rightly ;  if  too  coarse,  it 
is  wasted,  and  if  too  fine,  is  difficult  to  settle.  The  mill  should  be 
set  to  grind,  not  fine  like  flour,  or  coarse  like  hominy,  but  about  as 
Indian  meal,  when  ground  right  for  mush.  Every  housekeeper  should 
give  this  matter  personal  attention,  and  not  leave  it  entirely  to  the 
care  of  servants. 

Mixing  and  Boiling. — Allow  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  ground 
coffee  for  each  person,  and  one  for  the  boiler.  If  eggs  are  plenty 
take  half  enough  to  wet  the  grounds ;  if  not,  add  sufficient  cold 
water  to  mix  thoroughly  ;  beat  the  coffee  and  egg  until  it  shows 
foam  ;  egg  if  used  too  freely  congeals  the  coffee  and  retains  the 
strength.  Scald  the  boiler,  and  shake  out  all  the  water ;  pour  on  suffi- 
cient boiling  water  to  serve  the  first  table,  allowing  a  cup  for  evaporation 
and  waste ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  stir  down  the  grounds  that  rise  until 
all  inclination  to  boil  over  has  ceased ;  after  this  boil  five  minutes  hard, 
with  the  pot  closed  ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  and  drop  a  half- 
teaspoonful  of  cold  water,  and  no  more,  in  the  pot ;  let  it  stand  where 
it  remains  hot,  but  not  boiling,  from  three  to  five  minutes.  Scald  the 
urn,  or  coffee-pot,  with  boiling  water  at  least  five  minutes  ;  throw  it 
all  out,  and  fill  with  coffee  from  the  boiler  while  hot ;  should  the 
table  urn,  or  pot,  be  too  small  to  hold  all  that  will  be  needed  for  the 
first  table,  another  tin  pot  should  be  filled,  without  spout  or  air-hole 
in  the  cover,  in  which  the  extra  coffee  can  be  kept  hot,  not  boiling. 
When  the  first  coffee  is  poured  off,  fill  the  boiler  again  with  hot 


210  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

water,  and  let  it  boil  as  before,  this  will  be  nearly  as  good  as  the  first, 
and  much  better  than  coffee  made  in  the  old  manner  of  boiling  an 
hour  or  two  before  breakfast.  This  rule  will  be  found  to  make  a 
good  cup  of  coffee,  strong  enough  to  suit  most  people ;  the  whole 
strength  of  the  grounds  being  used,  it  is  best  to  throw  them  out, 
and  make  an  entire  new  cup  every  morning,  instead  of  leaving  half 
the  strength  in  the  boiler  until  the  next  day,  and  then  adding  half  as 
much  more  to  make  a  tolerable  cup  of  coffee,  and  in  the  end  using  the 
same  amount,  with  an  extra  strong  cup  the  first,  and  only  a  tolerable 
one  the  next,  morning. 

Proportions  for  an  Extra  Cup. — For  an  extra  cup,  take  one 
pound  before  browning  of  good  Mocha  coffee  for  fifteen  persons, 
allowing  three  cups  to  each  and  three  for  the  pot,  or  five  quarts  of 
water ;  make  as  above. 

Boiled  Milk  to  Reduce  Coffee. — Never  weaken  coffee  by  adding 
boiling  water,  a  teacupful  will  spoil  a  whole  boiler.  "When  the  coffee 
is  desired  with  less  strength,  reduce  with  hot  milk,  or  cream.  Some 
are  fond  of  coffee,  but  find  it  disagrees  with  them ;  such  persons 
would  find  the  following  rule  useful :  Fill  the  cup  two-thirds  full  of 
milk  boiling  hot,  sugar  to  the  taste,  and  halfgfche  space  left  in  the  cup 
fill  with  strong  coffee.  "When  cream  cannot  be  had,  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  stirred  gradually  into  milk,  in  the  propor- 
tion of  three  to  a  pint,  is  a  good  substitute ;  pour  the  milk  and  egg  in 
the  cup,  and  stir  with  a  spoon  while  filling  with  coffee. 

Coffee  Sugar.  —  Use  either  number  one  coffee  or  loaf-sngar  ; 
always  put  sugar  in  first,  cream  next,  and  lastly  coffee,  when  filling 
cups  at  the  tea-board. 

To  Serve  Coffee. — When  served  for  large  companies,  where 
every  person's  taste  cannot  be  consulted,  it  is  better  that  each  suit 
himself  to  sugar,  if  not  to  cream. 

Remarks. — Lastly,  a  good  cup  of  coffee  cannot  be  made  from  poor 
material.  Old  Government  Java  is  as  economical  as  any  for  family 
use,  and  is  also  good-flavored  ;  the  older  coffee  is  the  better.  Rio  is 
inferior,  and  is  seldom  found  at  a  table  where  good  living  is  prized ; 
even  the  steam  is  offensive  to  persons  accustomed  to  good  Java  or 
Mocha. 

American  Chocolate. — Procure  the  best  chocolate,  grate  it,  and 


COFFEE.  211 

allow  for  one  quart  of  water  four  table-spoons  of  chocolate ;  mix  free 
from  lumps  with  little  water,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add 
one  quart  of  rich  milk,  let  it  boil,  grate  in  a  salt-spoonful  of  nut- 
meg, and  sweeten  to  the  taste ;  add  cream  at  the  table. 

German  Chocolate. — Four  large  table-spoonfuls  of  the  best  choco- 
late grated  fine,  two  quarts  rich  milk  added  gradually  to  the  choco- 
late, the  whites  of  four  and  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  light,  but  not 
separated ;  add  one  gill  of  cold  milk  to  the  eggs,  beat  well ;  add  grad- 
ually a  coffee-cup  of  the  chocolate  to  the  milk  and  egg  while  hot, 
beating  constantly.  Take  the  chocolate  from  the  fire,  keep  it  hot  but 
not  boiling,  and  add  the  egg  and  milk  gradually ;  stir  constantly,  or 
it  will  curdle ;  flavor  with  nutmeg,  vanilla,  or  cinnamon,  as  desired ; 
sugar  it  to  suit  the  taste.  The  Germans  use  no  sugar.  The  egg  is  to 
be  added  just  before  serving.  This  makes  a  very  delicious  drink. 
Serve  in  chocolate  bowls. 

9 

Mock  Ceeam  foe  Coffee. — Heat  a  quart  of  new  milk ;  work  to- 
gether a  dessert-spoon  of  sweet  butter,  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour ;  thin 
it  with  a  little  of  the  hot  milk,  add  the  mixture  to  the  milk,  and  beat 
it  constantly  for  five  minutes  while  boiling ;  then  remove  it  from  the 
fire,  and  continue  to  beat  it  for  five  minutes  longer ;  have  ready  beat 
the  yolks  of  two  fresh  eggs  very  light,  and  add  them  to  the  cream 
while  hot ;  mix  well,  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  afterward  beat 
it  until  very  light.  This  is  even  better  than  good  cream  for  coffee. 
One  of  the  whites  can  be  used  for  settling  the  coffee. 

Coffee-pots  and  Bollees.  —  Scald  them  every  morning  after 
breakfast,  and  dry  thoroughly  outside  and  in.  Kub  the  pot  with  wash- 
leather,  if  metal. 


PART  IV. 


CHAPTER     I. 

BBEAKFAST  DISHES. 

Soft  Btjttee  Toast.— Toast  nicely  stale  bread,  and  keep  it  hot  in 
the  oven ;  have  ready  a  square  shallow  pan,  with  one  pint  of  water, 
one  teacup  of  sweet  butter,  heated  hot  without  boiling ;  unless  the 
butter  is  quite  salt,  a  little  salt  should  be  added,  though  this  is  a  mat- 
ter of  taste.  When  the  breakfast  is  ready  to  dish,  dip  each  slice  into 
the  gravy,  wetting  it  thoroughly :  pour  all  the  gravy  that  is  left  in  a 
gravy  tureen,  to  serve  with  the  toast.  If  poured  into  the  dish,  as  is 
usual,  the  whole  is  taken  up  by  the  bottom  slices,  and  the  remainder 
is  too  dry.  The  toast  should  be  sent  to  the  table  the  last  thing ;  and  the 
gravy-boat  or  tureen  heated  by  boiling  water,  so  as  not  to  cool  the 
gravy,  which  ought  to  be  near  but  not  quite  boiling  hot. 

Egg  Toast,  !No.  1. — Make  a  nice  butter  toast  as  above,  with  only 
sufficient  sauce  to  dip  the  bread ;  have  ready  some  scambled  eggs,  {see 
Scambled  Eggs,)  cooked  very  slightly,  spread  the  egg  on  the  toast, 
and  serve  while  hot ;  if  the  toast  stands,  the  eggs  will  harden. 

Egg  Toast,  No.  2. — Toast  fresh  but  not  new  bread  quickly,  without 
drying;  dip  each  slice  in  melted  not  oiled  butter;  have  ready 
eggs  poached  soft,  {see  Poached  Eggs,)  cut  the  slices  of  bread  in  the 
middle ;  lay  on  each  piece  of  toast  an  egg  without  breaking  tire  yolk, 
dust  on  very  little  pepper,  and  pour  over  each  egg  a  half-teaspoon  of 
melted  butter ;  never  allow  butter  to  boil  for  toasts ;  it  ruins  the 
whole  dish. 


BREAKFAST   DISHES.  213 

Molasses  Toast. — Boil  niceWest  India  molasses ;  remove  the  scnm, 
and  strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve  or  thin  cloth  strainer ;  let  it  boil  five 
minutes  slowly  with  a  bit  of  butter  to  a  pint,  as  large  as  half  an  egg ; 
if  the.  toast  is  dry  and  hard,  dip  it  quickly  in  hot  water,  and  then  in 
the  molasses ;  if  fresh,  in  the  molasses  only  ;  if  the  molasses  has 
thickened,  so  that  when  not  boiling  the  basin  is  not  as  full  as  when 
put  to  boil,  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  up  the  deficiency; 
some  molasses  thickens  rapidly,  while  other  does  not.  This  dish  is 
much  better  than  would  be  supposed ;  resembling  in  taste  a  buck- 
wheat cake  with  butter  and  molasses ;  the  author  well  remembers 
enjoying  it  much  when  a  child. 

Cream  Toast. — Heat  sweet  cream  over  steam  until  hot,  but  do  not 
allow  it  to  boil ;  add  a  little  salt,  dip  the  toast  in  the  cream,  and  send 
all  that  remains  to  the  table  in  a  gravy-boat.  This  toast  is  delightful 
when  properly  made ;  but  if  the  cream  boils  or  is  cold,  or  the  toast 
soaks  or  cools,  it  is  insipid. 

Milk  Toast,  No.  1. — Add  to  one  quart  of  milk  perfectly  sweet,  a 
bit  of  butter  as  large  as  a  small  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  a  teaspoon  of 
flour  stirred  free  from  lumps ;  beat  the  milk,  butter,  and  flour  until  it 
boils,  dip  the  toast,  and  send  all  the  gravy  left  to  the  table  in  a  gravy- 
boat.     This  is  a  very  good  toast  if  well  made  and  served  hot. 

Milk  Toast  without  Butter,  No.  2. — Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  and 
add  to  it  while  boiling,  little  by  little,  pork  fat,  letting  the  gravy  boil  a 
few  moments  each  time ;  thicken  a  little  with  flour  after  the  first  fat 
has  been  added,  and  stir  constantly ;  when  the  milk  will  not  take  up 
the  fat,  there  is  sufficient  in  the  milk  ;  add  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  It 
should  show  no  drops  of  fat  on  the  surface.  Dip  the  toast  and  serve 
the  gravy  as  directed  in  other  toasts.  When  this  is  made  properly, 
no  person  would  know,  unless  informed,  that  the  milk  was  not  en- 
riched with  butter ;  this  is  excellent  on  baked  potatoes  also. 

Mock  Cream  Toast. — Melt  in  one  quart  of  morning's  milk,  two 
ounces  or  one  gill  of  butter  measured  without  melting,  a  large  tea- 
spoon of  flour  freed  from  lumps,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten 
light ;  beat  these  ingredients  together  several  minutes ;  strain  the 
cream  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  and  when  wanted,  heat  it  slowly, 
beating  constantly  with  a  brisk  movement ;  it  must  not  boil,  or  it  will 
curdle  and  lose  the  appearance  of  cream ;  when  hot  dip  the  toast ;  if 
not  sufficiently  seasoned  by  the  butter,  add  salt ;  send  to  the  table 


214 

hot,  the  cream  not  taken  up  by  the  toast,  in  a  gravy-boat.    This  will 
be  found  superior  if  properly  made. 

Superior  Tomato  Toast. — Remove  the  skin  and  all  the  seeds  from 
tomatoes,  ripe,  hut  not  overripe;  stew  them  to  a  paste  without  scorch- 
ing ;  season  with  butter,  and  very  little  pepper  and  salt ;  toast  fresh 
but  not  new  bread  quickly,  without  drying ;  dip  the  slices  in  hot 
water,  in  which  very  little  butter  is  melted,  spread  each  slice  of  toast 
with  tomato,  laying  it  two  slices  thick  on  the  platter  ;  before  sending 
to  the  table  cut  the  slices  through,  that  each  may  have  a  top  and  bot- 
tom piece,  serving  each  with  two  half-slices,  otherwise,  the  carver 
will  endeavor  to  lift  one  slice  for  each,  and  mangle  the  remainder. 

Dry  Toast. — Toast  nice  fresh-sliced  bread  over  hot  coal,  and  send 
to  the  table  as  required,  during  breakfast. 

Dip  Toast. — Toast  bread ;  as  fast  as  toasted,  dip  it  in  boiling  water 
quickly,  and  spread  it  with  sweet  butter ;  stand  it  in  the  oven  until 
all  is  ready ;  it  should  have  plenty  of  butter. 

Dry  Butter  Toast. — Toast  fresh-sliced  bread  by  a  bright  fire, 
without  drying,  spread  each  slice  after  it  is  toasted  with  plenty  of 
sweet  butter,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  until  all  is  ready. 

Indian,  Graham  bread,  or  crackers,  can  be  toasted  and  served  with 
any  of  the  above  sauces. 

Fried  Potatoes  are  a  nice  breakfast  dish,  also  warmed  in  cream ; 
broiled  and  buttered,  baked,  or  made  into  balls  and  browned.  {See 
Potatoes.) 

Griddle  Cakes  are  also  not  only  nice,  but  proper  for  breakfasts. 
{See  Griddle  Cakes,  also  Coffee  and  Plain  Fried  Cakes.)  Dried 
beef,  cooked  nicely  as  already  directed ;  soup  meats,  etc. ;  fricassee ; 
cold  fowls  warmed  over ;  cutlets  of  any  meats ;  in  short,  any  meats 
quickly  cooked,  and  not  too  troublesome,  are  proper  for  breakfasts ; 
but  in  many  families  coals  cannot  be  obtained  for  broiling  without 
great  waste  in  the  morning.  Charcoal  is  the  most  economical  coal 
for  early  broiling ;  green  corn  cakes,  egg  plant,  parsnip  fritters,  sal- 
sify toast  or  fritters,  among  vegetables,  are  perhaps  more  in  place  at 
breakfast  than  at  any  other  meal ;  also  cod  and  oyster  toast. 

Codfish  Toast. — Freshen  nicely  picked-up  codfish,  by  laying  it 
in  water  all  night ;  add,  if  you  have  it,  sweet  qyeam  and  an  egg,  and 
heat  it  boiling  hot ;  pour  it  over  toast,  or  make  a  gravy  of  water  and 


BREAKFAST    DISHES.  215 

butter;  beat  up  two  or  three  eggs,  and  thicken  the  gravy  without 
allowing  it  to  curdle,  and  pour  it  over  toast. 

Oyster  Toast. — Toast  bread  nicely,  and  spread  it  thinly  with  but- 
ter ;  have  ready  sufficient  oysters  to  allow  to  each  half-slice  six ;  scald 
them  in  just  enough  water  to  moisten  the  toast ;  add  butter  and  pep- 
per to  the  taste ;  dip  the  toast  in  the  oysters,  and  after  cutting  each 
slice  in  the  middle,  lay  them  regularly  on  the  toast,  and  dip  the 
liquor  over  them ;  it  should  not  be  piled  up,  as  the  bread  disfigures 
the  oysters ;  serve  as  soon  as  possible.  If  they  are  to  be  passed  the 
second  time,  reserve  a  part  of  the  toast ;  cover  tight  and  place  the 
dish  over  steam  until  required.  In  the  cities  of  the  sea-coast,  where 
oysters  are  plenty  and  fresh,  this  is  a  cheap  as  well  as  excellent  dish. 

Fried  Oysters  with  Egg. — Select  large  oysters ;  heat  them  par- 
tially in  their  own  liquor  without  allowing  them  to  really  boil  dry ; 
dredge  them  with  flour ;  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs, 
(see  Dry  Bread,)  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  without  scorching ;  or 
make  a  batter  of  egg  and  flour,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt ;  dip 
the  oysters,  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Where  oysters  are  plenty  it  is 
well  to  beard  them — that  is,  remove  the  respiratory  organs  of  the 
oyster ;  but  in  the  country  oysters  are  too  expensive  to  use  bearded. 

Clam  Fritters. — Make  a  nice,  smooth  batter ;  dip  the  clams  in 
the  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  brown ;  or  take  the  liquor  from 
the  clams,  a  little  milk,  an  egg  or  two,  and  flour  sufficient  to  make  a 
batter  that  will  not  fry  in  bits ;  stir  in  the  clams,  and  drop  them  one 
by  one  in  hot  lard ;  when  browned  on  one  side,  turn  them  over ;  take 
care  not  to  have  the  lard  too  hot.  Oyster  fritters  can  be  made  as 
above. 

Eggs  in  any  form  are  nice  for  breakfasts,  (see  Eggs,)  omelets  in 
particular. 

Oyster  Omelets. — Allow  for  every  six  large  oysters  or  twelve  small 
ones  one  large  egg ;  remove  the  hard  part  of  the  oysters,  and  mince 
the  remainder ;  take  the  yolks  of  eight  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 
beat  them  until  very  light,  mix  in  the  oysters  and  a  little  pepper,  and 
beat  them  thoroughly  ;  put  in  a  frying-pan  a  large  gill  of  butter,  mea- 
sured before  melting,  and  move  it  around  until  melted ;  when  it  boils, 
if  the  buttermilk  rises,  skim  it  and  turn  in  the  omelet  while  boiling ; 
stir  it  until  it  begins  to  stiffen,  fry  it  a  light  brown ;  lift  the  edge  care- 
fully, and  slip  under  a  round  pointed  knife ;  be  careful  not  to  have  it 


216 

overdone  ;  as  soon  as  the  underside  is  a  light  brown,  turn  it  on  to  a 
hot  plate  by  turning  the  pan  upside  down.  Omelets  used  always  to 
be  folded  over,  but  at  the  present  time,  the  best  cooks  do  not  advise 
it,  thinking  it  is  apt  to  make  them  heavy.  Serve  immediately.  If 
desired  brown  on  the  top,  hold  over  it  a  red-hot  shovel,  or  cover  for 
a  few  minutes  with  a  bake-pan  cover,  heated  very  hot ;  if  turned  while 
frying,  they  are  apt  to  fall.  (For  omelet  pan,  see  Iron  Ware.)  Clam 
omelets  can  be  made  in  the  same  manner ;  also  green  corn,  allowing 
to  six  eggs  eighteen  ears ;  add  salt ;  the  corn  should  be  very  young 
and  finely  grated. 

Asparagus  Omelet. — Boil  two  pounds  of  tender,  fresh-cut  aspar- 
agus, in  very  little  water,  with  a  little  salt,  or,  what  is  better,  steam 
it  without  water  until  tender ;  chop  and  mash  it  finely,  incorporate 
with  it  the  whites  of  three  and  yolks  of  five  well-beaten  eggs ;  mix 
them  thoroughly  ;  if  not  salted  sufficiently,  add  more  ;  after  these  are 
well  mixed,  so  as  to  form  one  mass,  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet 
cream ;  fry  as  directed  above,  and  serve  hot. 

Mushroom  Omelet. — In  gathering  mushrooms,  always  examine 
the  gills  or  under  part ;  if  of  a  pink  or  flesh  color,  you  may  be  certain 
they  are  not  the  poisonous  kinds.  When  young  they  are  roundish 
like  a  button,  the  stalks  and  button  white,  the  flesh  white  when 
broken,  and  the  gills  beneath  livid ;  remove  the  stalks,  and  rub  the 
heads  with  a  very  little  salt  and  pure  "Cayenne ;  if  not  pure,  use  white 
pepper ;  stew  them  with  hardly  cream  or  milk  sufficient  to  cover 
them ;  stir  them  constantly  with  a  silver  spoon,  and  as  soon  as  the 
cream  boils  up  take  them  from  the  fire,  cool  and  chop  them  fine.  To 
a  pint  of  minced  mushroom  allow  the  whites  of  four  and  yolks  of  six 
well-beaten  eggs ;  mix  the  mushroom  gradually  with  the  egg^  and 
beat  them  well.  Fry  as  directed.  (For  farther  directions  in  regard 
to  frying  Omelets,  see  Omej^t  of  Egg.) 

Bread  Balls  are  a  breakfast  dish.  (See  Dry  Bread.)  (For 
hashes,  which  are  all  breakfast  dishes,  see  Hashes  ;  for  coffee,  see 
Coffee  ;  for  cream  for  coffee,  see  Mock  Cream.) 

Kelishes  for  breakfast,  to  eat  with  meats,  are  tomatoes,  sour  pic- 
kles, mustard,  and  catsups ;  for  hashes,  raw  onions  for  those  who  do 
not  discard  them,  horseradish,  cucumbers,  &c. ;  for  griddle  cakes, 
syrups  and  sugar ;  for  light  breakfast,  where  the  coffee  is  the  prin- 
cipal article,  plain  fried  cakes,  coffee-cakes,  and  plain  cookies. 


HASHES.  217 

CHAPTER  II. 

HASHES. 

Corned  Beef  Hash. — The  best  hash  is  made  from  boiled  corned  beef. 
It  should  be  boiled  very  tender,  and  chopped  fine  when  entirely  cold. 
The  potatoes  for  hash  made  of  corned  beef  are  the  better  for  being  boiled 
in  the  pot  liquor.  When  taken  from  the  pot,  remove  the  skins  from  the 
potatoes,  and  when  entirely  cold  chop  them  fine.  ( To  a  coffee-cup  of 
chopped  meat  allow  four  of  chopped  potatoes,  stir  the  potatoes 
gradually  into  the  meat,  until  the  whole  is  mixed.  Do  this  at  even- 
ing, and  if  warm,  set  the  hash  in  a  cool  place.  In  the  morning  put 
the  spider  on  the  fire  with  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  the  bowl  of  a 
table-spoon,  add  a  dust  of  pepper,  and  if  not  sufficiently  salt,  add  a 
little ;  usually  none  is  needed.  "When  the  butter  has  melted,  put  the 
hash  in  the  spider,  add  four  table-spoons  of  water,  and  stir  the  whole 
together.  After  it  has  become  really  hot,  stir  it  from  the  bottom, 
cover  a  plate  over  it,  and  set  the  spider  where  it  will  merely 
stew.  This  is  a  moist  hash,  and  preferred  by  some  to  dry  or  browned 
hash. 

Browned  Hash  of  Corned  Beef. — Heat  the  hash  in  a  kettle,  and  mix 
through  it  two  table-spoons  of  sweet  butter,  add  seasoning  to  suit,  add  a 
spoonful  of  water  only.  Have  ready  two  table-spoons  of  melted  butter 
boiling  hot  in  the  spider,  turn  it  up  and  round,  that  the  butter  may  touch 
the  whole  surface  of  the  spider.  Put  in  the  hash,  press  it  tightly,  and 
keep  it  cooking  gently  without  burning.  Run  a  knife  under  it  now 
and  then,  to  see  that  it  is  not  scorching.  When  browned,  place  a 
platter  over  the  spider,  and  turn  it  out  without  breaking.  It  will 
need  two  persons  to  dish  it ;  one  to  hold  the  platter  firmly  on  the 
spider,  and  the  other  to  turn  it  out. 

Hash  Balls  of  Corned  Beef. — Prepare  the  hash  as  above, 
omitting  the  butter ;  make  it  into  flat  cakes ;  heat  the  griddle  and 
grease  it  with  plenty  of  sweet  butter ;  brown  the  balls  first  on  one 
side  and  then  on  the  other,  and  serve  hot.  The  fault  usually  with  hash 
is,  that  there  is  too  much  meat  for  the  potatoes.  It  is  not  necessary 
that  the  potatoes  should  be  boiled  in  pot  liquor,  but  cold  mashed 
potatoes  will  not  make  good  meat  hashes,  and  poor  hashes  are  very 
poor  dishes. 

10 


218 

Feesh  Beef  Hashes. — Chop  very  fine  the  meats  left  cold,  and 
allow  one-fifth  of  beef  to  four  of  chopped  potatoes ;  season  to  the 
taste  ;  add  more  butter  and  water  than  to  brown  hash,  and  cook  it 
some  time ;  let  it  slightly  brown,  and  then  disturb  it,  bringing  the 
crisp  to  the  top  until  quite  dry,  and  mixed  through  with  the  crisped 
part.  Dish  it  in  a  deep  dish.  Potatoes  for  fresh  meat  hashes  should 
be  boiled  in  clear  water,  without  the  peel.  The  fat  of  fresh  beef 
should  be  discarded  in  hash,  it  gives  a  taste  of  fried  tallow  to  the 
dish. 

Feesh  Meat  Hash  with  Toast. — Some  hash  cold  meat  as  fine  as 
possible,  season  it  highly,  and  stew  it  with  butter  to  put  on  toast ;  but 
this  dish  would  not,  in  our  family,  find  many  admirers.  Others  mix 
th£-  meat  with  bread  crumbs  and  brown  them.  In  either  case  season 
highly. 

Poek  Hash. — Boil  tender  salt  pork ;  when  cold  chop  it  fine,  and 
mix  one  part  of  the  chopped  pork  with  five  parts  of  the  potatoes ; 
season  to  suit ;  grease  the  spider  with  a  bit  of  the  pork,  and  fry 
brown.  Or,  chop  raw  potatoes  fine,  and  mix  six  parts  of  potatoes 
with  one  of  pork ;  add  salt,  and  very  little  pepper,  and  fry  brown. 
Or,  prepare  the  hash  as  first  directed,  make  it  in  cakes,  and  fry  them 
brown  on  both  sides. 

Poek,  Pabsntp,  and  Potato  Hash.  —  Chop  them  when  cold 
very  fine,  allowing  two  parts  parsnip  to  one  of  potatoes;  if  the 
vegetables  are  mashed  it  is  better ;  add  one  part  of  pork  to 
four  parts  of  the  mixed  potato  and  parsnip ;  fry  brown  in  small 
cakes. 

Poek  and  Paesnip  Hash. — Boil  the  parsnips  and  let  them  cool ; 
to  four  parts  of  parsnip  allow  one  of  pork  ;  make  the  hash  into  cakes 
and  fry  brown.  The  whole  should  be  chopped  very  fine.  If  mashed, 
so  much  the  better. 

Codfish  Hash. — Put  in  soak  overnight  a  teacup  of  codfish  picked 
up  fine.  In  the  morning  boil  some  potatoes  nicely,  mash  and  work 
them  until  very  light.  Put  the  fish  in  the  chopping-bowl  and 
chop  it  fine,  after  which,  before  taking  it  from  the  bowl,  mash  and 
work  it  until  as  fine  as  possible.  Work  the  potato  in  little  by 
little,  working  it  with  the  potato-pounder,  until  five  parts  of  pota- 
to are  thoroughly  incorporated  with  the  fish.  This  should  be  so 
perfectly  done  that  the  fish  can  neither  be  seen  nor  felt  in  the  mouth 


219 

separate  from  the  potato.  Season  the  hash  a  little  richer  than  for 
mashed  potatoes.  Put  it  in  the  potato-kettle  and  heat  it,  constantly- 
stirring.  Have  butter  heated  in  the  spider,  press  the  hash  into  it 
firmly,  and  cook  it  gently.  "When  brown,  turn  it  out  without  break- 
ing, and  set  it  in  the  oven  until  the  coffee  is  on  the  table.  It  is 
better,  however,  to  leave  it  in  the  spider,  if  not  scorching,  until  it  is 
served.  This  is  a  very  different  dish  from  that  called  by  many  cod- 
fish hash.    Always  buy  white  codfish. 

Codfish  Balls.— Pick  up  as  fine  as  possible  a  teacup  of  nice 
white  codfish.  Freshen  all  night,  or  if  wanted  for  any  other  meal 
than  breakfast,  from  the  morning ;  scald  it  once,  and  drain  off  the 
water.  Put  it  in  the  chopping-bowl,  chop  and  work  it  until  entirely 
fine  ;  put  it  in  a  basin  with  water,  a  bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
and  two  eggs  ;  beat  it  thoroughly,  and  heat  it  until  it  thickens,  with- 
out boiling.  It  should,  when  all  is  mixed,  be  about  a  quart.  Have 
some  potatoes  ready  prepared  and  nicely  mashed,  work  the  fish  and 
potatoes  thoroughly  together  as  above,  make  it  in  flat  cakes,  and 
brown  both  sides.  This  is  a  very  nice  dish,  as  all  who  have  tried 
it  allow. 


CHAPTER   III. 

EGGS. 

To  Select  Eggs. — There  are  several  ways  of  determining  whether 
or  not  eggs  are  fresh.  If  they  shake  like  water,  they  are  not.  If 
both  ends  of  the  egg,  when  put  to  the  mouth,  are  of  the  same  tem- 
perature, they  are  bad ;  but  if  a  perceptible  difference  in  the  heat  is 
perceived,  they  may  be  depended  upon  as  good  eggs.  If  eggs  swim, 
they  are  bad ;  if  they  rise  nearly  to  the  top,  not  fresh ;  if  they  sink, 
they  are  newly  laid.  Eggs  newly  laid  are  the  best  for  the  table ;  but 
for  beating  it  is  better  they  should  have  been  laid  three  or  four  days. 
The  eggs  of  overgrown  hens  are  not  as  delicate  as  those  of  the 
common  fowls ;  there  is  as  much  difference  in  the  eggs  as  in  the  flesh 
of  the  birds.  White  eggs  look  much  better  on  the  table  than  brown 
shells.  Eggs  that  are  badly  stained  in  the  nest  cannot  be  entirely 
cleansed,  so  as  to  look  neatly  on  the  table.  It  is  better  to  select 
clean-shelled  eggs,  brought  to  market  by  hand. 


220  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

To  Preserve  for  the  "Winter. — Obtain  eggs  newly  laid,  and 
brought  to  market  by  hand.  If  jolted,  the  yolks  and  whites  mingle, 
and  they  will  not  keep  as  fresh.  Dip  each  egg  in  hot  suet,  and  drain 
them  without  wiping  ;  dip  them  in  diluted  oil  of  vitriol  a  moment,  or 
brush  them  over  with  gum-arabic.  These  methods  are  all  good,  the 
same  effect  being  attained  by  each,  which  is  the  closing  of  the  pores 
of  the  egg,  to  prevent  evaporation.  It  is  the  evaporation  of  the 
moisture  in  the  egg,  and  consequent  filling  of  the  space  by  air,  which 
decomposes  the  egg ;  and  whatever  prevents  this  preserves  the  egg 
the  most  perfectly ;  but  if  eggs  lie  before  this  is  done,  there  will  be 
sufficient  air  already  in  the  egg  to  spoil  it.  If  they  can  be  oiled  or 
varnished  fresh  from  the  nest  daily,  their  preservation  will  be  com- 
plete, the  eggs  coming  out  in  winter  nearly  as  fresh  as  when  first 
laid. 

To  Close  the  Pores  of  Egg-shells  by  the  Use  of  Hot  "Water. — 
Select  newly -laid  eggs,  put  them  in  a  frame,  and  dip  them  in  and  out 
three  successive  times  quickly,  while  the  water  is  boiling. 

Another  Mode. — Have  a  frame  prepared  to  hold  as  many  dozens 
as  desired  to  preserve ;  place  the  eggs  firmly  in  place,  so  that  they 
will  not  move  by  turning  the  frame,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them, 
so  that  every  egg  has  felt  the  influence  of  the  boiling  water  on  every 
part  of  the  shell ;  hang  the  frame  in  a  cool  cellar,  where  the  air  can 
circulate  freely  around  them. 

To  Try  Eggs  by  Looking  through  them. — Cover  the  sides 
with  the  hand,  and  look  through  the  small  end  towards  the  light.  If 
the  egg  is  entirely  fresh,  it  will  be  translucent,  showing  the  color  of 
the  yolk  through  the  white,  giving  the  whole  a  reddish  tinge.  As 
soon  as  an  egg  commences  to  change,  the  color  changes,  and  one 
spoiled  will  present  a  dark  appearance.  "With  a  little  practice,  a 
dealer  can  select  quantities  in  a  short  time  with  hardly  a  mistake. 
This  is  perhaps  one  of  the  very  best  tests  known  by  which  to  deter- 
mine the  freshness  of  eggs. 

ENGLISH  RULE  FOR  KEEPING  EGGS,  SAID  TO  BE  EXCELLENT. 

Liquid  to  Preserve  Eggs. — One  bushel  of  quicklime,  thirty-two 
ounces  of  salt,  eight  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  in  sufficient  water  to 
swim  the  eggs.  Common  lime-water,  if  too  strong,  will  partially 
cook  the  whites. 


EGGS.  221 

To  Pack  Eggs. — Set  the  eggs  with  the  small  end  uppermost, 
wedged  tightly  in  bran,  so  that  they  cannot  move.  If  to  send  to 
market,  they  must  be  packed  with  the  utmost  care,  or  they  will  break. 
If  laid  on  the  side,  the  egg  will  adhere ;  the  cask  must  be  kept  up- 
right. If  packed  in  pine,  or  any  other  gum-wood  sawdust,  or  shav 
ings,  the  eggs  will  imbibe  the  flavor  of  the  wood.  Some  advise  turn- 
ing the  cask  end  for  end  once  or  twice  each  week.  If  this  is  done, 
it  will  prevent  the  yolk. settling. 

Eggs  considered  as  Food. — As  food,  eggs  are  extremely  nutri- 
tious. Those  of  the  common  hen  are  the  most  delicate.  The  eggs 
are  affected  by  the  food  given  the  hen  as  certainly  as  is  meat  by  the 
food  of  the  ox.  The  white  of  egg  is  nearly  all  albumen ;  the  yolk 
consists  of  an  oil  united  with  albumen,  and  contains  a  little  sul- 
phur and  phosphorus.  It  is  this  that  blackens  silver  spoons  used 
in  egg. 

To  Boil  Eggs. — An  egg  should  be  well  washed  in  warm  clear 
water  and  wiped  dry  before  boiling.  Have  ready  a  kettle  over  a 
brisk  fire  partly  filled  with  boiling  water.  Put  the  eggs  in  a  skimmer, 
and  lay  them  in  the  water  carefully,  without  cracking  the  shell.  Do 
not  put  in  the  pot  at  one  time  more  than  the  skimmer  will  lift,  and 
select  those  of  a  size.  Have  a  watch  open  in  the  hand,  or  a  clock 
near  by  ;  look  at  the  clock  as  the  eggs  are  being  put  into  the  kettle. 
For  merely  coagulating  the  white  two  and  a  half  minutes  are  suffi- 
cient ;  for  solidifying  the  white  without  cooking  the  egg,  three  min- 
utes is  the  proper  time  ;  for  partially  cooking  the  yolk,  three  and  a 
half;  for  solidifying  the  yolk,  four;  for  boiling  Jiard,  five;  and  for 
boiling  mealy,  which  is  the  most  healthy  next  to  the  three  minutes 
rule,  one  hour ;  for  salads,  always  boil  one  hour.  Stand  by  the  egg 
kettle,  skimmer  in  hand,  with  a  dish  of  cold  water  near  by  ;  when  it 
is  two  minutes,  put  the  skimmer  under  the  egg,  and  lift  when  the  last 
second  of  the  half-minute  has  passed.  Be  as  particular  with  each 
mode  of  boiling,  except  the  hard.  As  soon  as  the  eggs  are  lifted,  cool 
the  shells  by  immersing  them  a  moment  in  cold  water ;  wipe  them 
dry,  and  serve  immediately.  No  dish  on  the  table  is  more  fre- 
quently spoiled  in  cooking  than  eggs.  They  ought  never  to  be  boiled 
by  guess. 

To  Fey  Eggs  Soft. — After  the  pork,  ham,  or  bacon  is  dished,  pour 
off  the  fat,  clear  and  wash  the  spider  free  from  sediment.  Drain  in 
the  melted  fat  carefully;   there  should  be  sufficient  to  dip  on  the 


222  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

eggs  while  frying,  as  they  ought  never  to  be  turned.  Break  carefully 
in  a  cup  one  egg  at  a  time,  (without  breaking  the  yolks,)  for  fear  some 
may  not  be  quite  fresh.  If  the  yolks  are  mingled  with  the  whites 
they  will  not  fry  nicely.  When  sufficient  are  broken  to  fry  at  one 
time,  remove  the  boiling  fat  from  the  fire,  pour  in  each  egg  by  itself 
so  that  they  may  not  form  a  mass ;  scatter  over  the  yolks  of  each  a 
pinch  of  fine  salt  and  a  dust  of  pepper,  throw  the  white  belonging 
to  each  egg  over  the  yolk  with  a  table-spoon,  and  as  soon  as  it  is 
nearly  congealed  remove  the  egg  to  the  platter ;  if  it  cooks  too  slowly, 
dip  over  the  egg  some  of  the  hot  fat. 

To  Fry  Eogs  Hard. — Proceed  as  above,  leaving  the  spider  on  the 
fire,  dip  the  hot  fat  over  each  egg  until  sufficiently  cooked. 

To  Poach  Eggs. — Have  in  the  spider  water  instead  of  fat ;  the 
water  should  barely  cover  the  eggs.  Eemove  the  spider  from  the 
fire  before  putting  in  the  eggs,  and  remove  it  as  soon  as  the  whites 
are  congealed.  Lay  on  each  egg  a  small  bit  of  sweet  butter,  and  dust 
on  a  trifle  of  pepper ;  if  desired  hard,  let  them  remain  longer  in  the 
water.     (See  Egg  Toast.) 

Scambled  Eggs. — Put  in  a  spider  enough  sweet  butter  to  oil  the 
bottom  of  the  pan;  put  in  the  eggs  without  breaking  the  yolks, 
add  a  bit  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut  to  twelve  eggs,  season  with 
very  little  salt  and  pepper;  when  the  whites  harden  a  little,  stir 
the  eggs  from  the  bottom  of  the  spider,  and  continue  to  do  this 
until  cooked  to  suit  the  family.  The  yolks  and  whites,  when  done, 
should  be  separate  though  stirred  together,  not  mixed  like  beaten 
eggs.     (See  Egg  Toasts.) 

Omelet,  Soft. — Put  in  a  basin  a  teaspoon  of  water,  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  the  yolks  of  six  and  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  beat 
the  mixture  until  very  light.  Have  ready  in  an  omelet  or  small 
frying  pan  butter  very  hot ;  pour  in  the  mixture,  move  the  pan  con- 
stantly over  the  fire  until  the  sides  commence  to  harden,  then  roll  it, 
and  turn  it  out  without  soiling  the  dish ;  serve  hot. 

Omelet,  Hard. — Proceed  as  above,  using  all  the  egg,  and  cook 
the  omelet  until  the  whole  of  the  eggs  are  hard ;  serve  hot.  Ome- 
let fall  if  they  stand  after  being  dished. 

Omelet  Souffle,  French  Method. — Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  six  eggs  separately  as  light  as  possible,  season  with  sugar,  a  little 


EGGS. 


223 


grated  rind  of  lemon,  and  a  trifle  of  salt ;  mix  slightly,  and  after  it  has 
stood  long  enough  for  the  edges  to  harden,  set  it  in  the  oven ;  apply 
heat  to  the  top  of  the  omelet  and  bake;  it  will  rise  considerably; 
it  can  be  glazed,  if  you  choose. 

Eggs  in  a  Mass  cooked  Whole.— Butter  a  dish,  place  the  eggs  in 
layers  with  small  bits  of  butter,  and  season  with  very  little  salt  and 
pepper ;  steam  them,  and  when  the  whites  are  solid,  serve  in  the 
same  dish. 

Eggs  in  the  Italian  Method. — Moisten  butter  and  flour  in  a 
stew-pan,  stirring  constantly ;  when  the  thickness  of  rich  batter,  thin 
with  a  little  boiling  milk,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  add  about 
three  ounces  of  butter  and  a  little  chopped  green  parsley,  worked 
well  together.  Have  ready  eight  eggs  boiled  one  hour,  slice  and  add 
them  to  the  sauce,  and  serve  hot. 

Shells  of  Eggs.— Wash  the  shells  and  dry  them,  to  settle  coffee 
in  the  winter.    To  use  them,  soak  them  overnight. 


CHAPTER    IV. 

ECONOMY  DISHES. 

To  Use  nicely  Cold  Fowls. — Pick  the  meat  from  bones ;  break 
the  bones,  and  boil  in  very  little  water ;  stew  the  meat,  gravy,  and 
dressing  of  the  cold  fowls  together,  and  add  the  soup. 

To  Use  the  Meat  and  Geistle  of  a  Soup-bone. — Cut  all  the 
gristle  from  the  bone,  boil  until  perfectly  tender ;  if  there  is  enough 
to  serve  for  a  dish,  add  vinegar,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  it  will 
resemble  souse ;  if  not,  mix  the  meat  with  it,  fricassee  brown,  and 
add  butter,  salt,  pepper,  a  dust  of  flour,  and  sufficient  water  to  make 
the  gravy,  and  serve  with  dry  bread  toasted ;  lay  the  bread  on  the 
platter,  and  pour  over  it  the  fricasee. 

Cold  Eggs  as  Egg  Balls. — Take  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  work  them 
to  a  paste  with  a  little  butter ;  chop  the  whites  as  fine  as  possible, 
make  them  in  balls  or  small  flat  cakes,  and  brown  them  in  butter. 

Cold  Beefsteaks. — Make  a  plain  paste,  cover  a  plate,  and  bake 


224 

t,  put  in  the  meat  cut  in  small  bits,  put  it  in  the  pie,  add  seasoning 
to  suit,  cover  and  bake ;  it  will  bake  in  twenty  minutes. 

Cold  Fish. — Take  any  kind  of  cold  fish,  pick  it  up  finely,  mix  it 
with  potatoes,  make  it  in  small  cakes,  and  fry  it  brown. 

To  Make  a  Soup  of  the  Bones  of  Steak. — Boil  the  bone  and 
fat  of  beefsteak  in  very  little  water,  season  with  onion,  pepper,  and 
salt,  thicken  with  very  little  flour,  add  potatoes,  bread,  or  any  vege- 
table desired.  Bones  from  two  slices  make  a  good  soup  for  a  small 
family.  The  bone,  if  left  on  the  steak,  wastes  butter,  and  the  fat 
burns  in  the  fire. 

Cold  Veal. — Either  make  a  pie,  a  stew,  or  a  fricassee ;  it  is  very 
nice  cold,  when  it  is  fit  to  put  on  the  table ;  but  the  broken  bits  can 
be  used  to  advantage  in  either  of  the  above  dishes. 

Cold,  Fried,  or  Broiled  Ham. — Cut  the  ham  in  bits,  fry  the  fat 
part  to  a  crisp,  stir  in  the  lean  bits,  and  just  before  dishing  add  a  few 
eggs ;  stir  them  with  the  meats,  and  serve  all  together ;  cold  bacoo 
and  pork  can  be  served  in  the  same  manner. 

Cold  Rice. — When  rice  is  left  cold,  mould  it  in  small  cups,  filling 
each  cup  half  full,  or  less,  according  to  the  amount  of  rice ;  the 
next  day  turn  the  moulds  bottom  side  up  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour 
over  them  a  boiled  custard ;  serve  cold ;  or  use  it  in  making  puddings ; 
it  can  be  used  also  in  griddle  cakes  and  soups. 

Broken  Cake  Puddings. — Soak  the  cake  in  domestic  wine,  and 
serve  with  cold  custard;  heavy  cake  can  be  used  in  the  same 
manner. 

Heavy  Plum  Cake  Pudding. — Soak  in  milk,  add  soda  and  cream 
of  tartar,  and  bake  or  boil  as  pudding. 

Cold  Cabbage. — Chop  fine  and  heat  it  in  vinegar,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  if  not  boiled  with  meats,  add  a  little  butter.  It  can 
also  be  fried  ;  cauliflower  and  broccoli  can  be  prepared  in  the  same 
manner. 

Cold  Mush. — Cut  in  thin  slices,  and  fry  brown ;  serve  with  syrup 
or  molasses. 

Pie  Crust,  left  over. — When  any  is  left  after  baking,  work  in  all 
the  flour  possible,  and  form  it  in  crackers. 


ECONOMY    DISHES.  225 

Remnants  of  Preserves,  to  use  to  advantage. — "When  several 
jars  of  preserves  have  been  opened,  and  a  little  of  each  left  without 
being  enough  of  one  kind  for  a  dish,  mash  and  cook  them  down  to 
a  jam  with  the  syrnps,  and  use  the  jam  for  tarts,  or  save  the  syrups 
to  put  in  pudding  sauces,  and  make  jam  of  the  fruit  only. 

Cold  Potatoes. — These  can  be  prepared  in  many  different  forms ; 
the  best  are  fried,  broiled,  and  in  hashes. 

Cold  Corn. — Grate  it,  and  make  in  cakes  with  egg  and  a  little 
flour,  fry  brown. 

Cold  Peas. — Mash  them ;  boil  cream  and  thicken  it  with  peas, 
or  make  a  soup  with  water  and  butter  thickened  with  peas ;  beans 
can  be  used  in  the  last-described  manner. 

Cold  Egg  Plant. — Egg  plant  may  be  heated  over,  as  also  squash, 
turnips,  onions ;  beets  are  better  used  cold.  Parsnips  are  better 
heated  the  second  time  than  the  first ;  cold  sweet  potatoes  are  nice 
fried  or  broiled ;  soup,  if  not  left  in  iron,  can  be  warmed  several 
times,  but  to  be  kept  sweet  long,  it  must  either  be  heated  boiling  hot 
each  day,  or  be  kept  very  cold. 

Dry  Bread. — "When  bread  has  accumulated  and  there  is  danger 
of  losing  it,  it  is  well  to  make  a  plain  beef  soup,  and  boil  in  it  as 
much  bread  as  the  family  will  use.  Bread  left  from  the  table  each 
day  should  be  thoroughly  dried,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place  where  it  can 
neither  mould  nor  contract  unpleasant  tastes.  For  dressings,  thor- 
oughly dried  bread  is  much  better  than  when  only  moderately  dry  or 
stale. 

Rtjsked  Bread. — Dry  and  brown  very  gradually  slices  of  old 
bread,  it  should  be  browned  through  without  scorching ;  pound  it  in 
a  mortar  until  as  fine  as  Indian  meal ;  use  it  in  milk  as  a  meal  for 
children  or  lunch  for  adults.  Use  with  clams,  fish,  cutlets ;  to  thicken 
soups,  in  scalloped  fish,  or  dressings  for  geese,  duck,  or  pigeons.  Cried 
bread  without  browning  is  nice  for  scalloped  oysters,  to  make  griddle 
cakes  and  puddings,  etc. 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes. — Soak  the  bread  overnight,  add  sufficient 
milk  for  a  batter,  a  little  salt  and  soda,  with  a  handful  of  flour,  and 
one  egg  to  every  pint  of  soaked  bread.  A  bowl  full  of  soaked  bread  in 
a  pan  of  buckwheat  batter,  is  considered  by  some  a  great  improve- 
ment, no  doubt  the  cakes  are  rendered  more  healthy  by  it. 
10* 


226  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Bread  Balls. — These  are  made  of  soaked  bread  and  egg,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

Fried  Bread. — Dip  the  bread  in  egg,  and  fry  slowly  nntil  nicely 
browned ;  serve  with  ham  or  pork.  Children  are  usually  fond  of 
fried  bread,  and  if  not  too  oily  it  is  an  excellent  dish  for  them. 


CHAPTER  V 

,COLD  DINNEES. 


Remarks,  No.  1. — It  is  often  very  inconvenient  to  cook  warm 
dinners.  "Where  there  is  but  one  servant  in  the  family  it  will  be  im- 
possible to  get  up  hot  dinners  in  good  style,  on  washing  and  other 
days  of  extra  labor,  unless  the  housekeeper  herself  does  the  work, 
which  in  families  of  much  size  is  often  more  than  she  can  well  per- 
form. 

Cold  Dinners,  No.  1. — First  course ;  cold  ham,  baked  potatoes 
horseradish  or  jelly,   bread  and  butter.     Dessert :   apple  pie  and 

cheese. 

No.  2. — Cold  corned  beef  nicely  sliced,  potatoes  baked,  mustard, 
bread,  butter,  and  pickles.    Dessert ;  mince  pie  and  cheese. 

No.  3. — Cold  roast  beef,  jelly,  baked  potatoes,  bread,  butter,  and 
crackers.    Dessert ;  cherry  pie  with  cheese. 

No.  4. — Cold  lamb,  baked  potatoes  hot,  cranberry  sauce,  bread 
and  butter,  lettuce  with  cold  boiled  egg  and  vinegar.  Dessert ;  cold 
custard. 

No.  5. — Ham  boiled  and  sliced ;  each  slice  spread  with  mustard 
and  a  slice  of  cold  hard  egg,  baked  potatoes  hot,  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert ;  cold  rice,  with  cream  and  sugar. 

No.  6. — Corned  beef  sliced,  with  horseradish,  baked  potatoes 
hot,  bread  and  butter.  Desert;  corn  starch  blanc-mange,  cream, 
sugar,  and  jelly. 

No.  7. — Chicken  pie,  celery,  hot  baked  potatoes.  Dessert ;  cake 
soaked  in  wine,  served  with  cold  custard. 


COLD   DINNERS.  227 

No.  8. — Oyster  pie,  crackers,  celery.    Dessert ;  fruit. 

No.  9. — First  course,  raw  oysters  with  lemon  and  crackers; 
second  course,  cold  veal  with  jelly  and  baked  potatoes  hot,  bread 
and  butter.    Desert ;  mince  pie. 

No.  10. — Veal  pie,  baked  potatoes  hot,  pickles,  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert ;  cranberry  tart. 

No.  11. — Cold  chicken,  hot  baked  potatoes,  cold"  slaw,  bread  and 
butter.    Dessert,  strawberries  and  cream. 

No.  12. — Spare  rib  of  pork,  stewed  apple  without  sugar,  baked 
potatoes  hot,  bread  and  butter.    Dessert ;  apple  pie. 

No.  13. — Fillet  of  veal,  jelly,  hot  baked  potatoes,  bread  and  but- 
ter.   Dessert ;  rhubarb  pie. 

No.  14. — Cold  scalloped  oysters,  cold  ham  with  baked  potatoes, 
jelly,  bread  and  butter.    Dessert ;  pumpkin  pie. 

No.  15. — Cold  fried  chicken,  jelly,  baked  potatoes,  bread  and  but- 
ter.   Dessert ;  cherry  pie. 

No.  16. — Beefsteak  pie,  baked  potatoes  hot,  cold  slaw,  bread  and 
butter.    Dessert ;  custard. 

No.  17. — Cold  baked  pork  with  beans,  pickles,  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert ;  pumpkin  pie. 

No.  18. — Cold  stewed  beans  with  boiled  pork,  pickles,  bread  and 
butter.    Dessert ;  custard  pie. 

No.  19. — Soused  pig's  feet,  baked  potatoes,  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert ;  cold  rice  custard. 

No.  20.— Soused  fish,  with  bread  and  butter.  Dessert ;  mince  or 
fruit  pie. 

No.  21. — Scalloped  fish  with  mushroom  catsup,  bread,  butter 
and  pickles.    Dessert ;  apples  steamed,  served  with  cream. 

No.  22. — Casserole  of  fish,  with  catsup,  bread,  butter,  and  pickles. 
Dessert ;  apple  pie. 

No.  23. — Minced  clams  scalloped,  salad,  and  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert ;  cranberry  tart. 


228  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

No.  24. — Cold  tongue  sliced,  horseradish,  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert ;  cold  rice  with  jelly,  and  custard. 

No.  25. — Cold  turkey,  hot  baked  potatoes,  jelly,  bread  and  butter. 
Dessert ;  apple  pie. 

No.  26. — Cold  boiled  fowl,  hot  baked  potatoes,  oyster  sauce  hot, 
jelly,  bread  and  butter.    Dessert ;  fruit  and  cream. 

Eemarks,  No.  2. — By  proper  management  cold  dinners  can  be 
prepared  the  day  before  they  are  wanted,  and  the  family  be  made 
comfortable  even  when  there  is  an  unusual  amount  of  work  in  the 
kitchen ;  potatoes  can  often  be  prepared  the  day  before,  and  heated 
over  in  the  oven  with  very  little  trouble  ;  the  meat  pies,  if  set  in  the 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  can  be  nicely  warmed ;  apple  pies  are  better 
warmed  than  served  cold,  set  them  in  the  oven  a  few  moments.  If 
warm  gravies  are  preferred  with  cold  meats  and  fowls,  they  can  be 
prepared  and  warmed  before  serving  dinner.  Cold  dinners  can  be 
prepared  with  as  many  courses  as  desired,  but  as  the  object  of  this 
chapter  is  to  lighten  the  work  of  the  family,  two  have  generally  been 
thought  sufficient. 

TO  PREPARE  LUNCHES. 

Lunch,  No.  1. — Cover  a  tray,  or  small  table,  with  a  napkin;  place 
plates,  napkins,  goblets,  a  pitcher  of  ice-water,  a  plate  of  buttered 
bread,  cut  in  thin  half-slices  ;  cold  meats  or  fowl,  seasoned  to  suit  ; 
crackers,  pickles,  and,  if  used,  wine-glasses  filled  with  iced  wine,  and 
a  dish  of  fruit  and  nuts,  arranged  neatly  and  with  taste. 

Lunch,  No.  2. — Sandwiches  of  cold  corned-beef,  ham,  or  chopped 
tongue ;  cold  strong  coffee,  reduced  with  thick  cream,  and  cooled  in 
goblets  with  pounded  ice ;  pickles,  crackers,  or  cookies ;  sugar,  spoons, 
nuts,  and  fruit ;  the  whole  arranged  tastefully  on  a  small  table,  plac- 
ing the  plates,  etc.,  ready  for  each  person  who  is  to  partake  of  the 
lunch. 

Lunch,  No.  3. — Chocolate  iced,  raw  oysters,  buttered  bread,  sugar, 
crackers,  sliced  lemon,  pickles,  fruit,  ice-water,  plates,  knives,  forks, 
spoons,  napkins,  goblets,  table-spoon,  and  castor ;  arranged  as  No  2. 

Lunch,  No.  4. — Sardines,  sliced  lemon,  buttered  bread,  crackers, 
ice-water,  fruit,  castor,  goblets,  plates,  knives,  forks,  and  napkins ; 
arranged  as  No.  2. 


PART  V. 
CHAPTER  I. 

APPLES. 

HERMETICALLY    SEAL,    COOK,    ETC. 

Kemarks. — Every  housekeeper  knows  the  value  of  this  fruit  in 
the  family,  while  but  few  are  capable  of  selecting  the  different  vari- 
eties needed  not  only  to  prolong  the  season,  but  to  use  to  the  best 
advantage  in  desserts,  jellies,  sauces,  etc. 

Summer  Apples. — Early  harvest  best  for  pies  and  tarts,  and  earliest 
of  all  apples ;  golden  sweeting  excellent  for  baking ;  then  comes  early 
joe,  early  strawberry,  and  red  astracan ;  all  good. 

Autumn  Apples. — Fall  pippins,  golden  pippins,  etc. 

For  Early  "Winter  choose  yellow  bellflower,  Khode  Island  green- 
ing, Spitzenburg,  seek-no-further,  etc. 

Late  Winter  and  Spring. — Yellow  Newtown  pippin  stands  first, 
red  Newtown  pippin  next,  Koxbury  or  Boston  russet  last ;  this  keeps 
well,  but  is  not  as  high-flavored  as  the  others,  becoming  insipid  by 
spring. 

Gathering  "Winter  Apples. — Pick  the  fruit  by  hand ;  lay  each 
apple  in  a  small  basket  not  holding  over  one  peck  ;  take  them  imme- 
diately to  a  cool,  dry  place ;  select  sound  perfect  fruit ;  lay  each  apple 
on  the  floor  one  by  one,  so  as  not  to  touch ;  let  them  remain  as  long 
as  there  is  no  danger  from  frost.    "When  winter  sets  in,  lay  them  in 


230  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

barrels  which  have  had  lime  or  plaster  scattered  in  them ;  if  they 
have  stood  filled  with  lime  so  much  the  better,  if  the  staves  are  not 
shrunk.  Handle  them  as  carefully  as  eggs,  not  even  breaking  the 
stem ;  then  head  up  the  barrels,  and  keep  them  as  cool  as  possible 
without  freezing.  Those  intended  for  spring  use  had  better  be 
wrapped  in  newspaper.  Apples  can  be  preserved  in  this  manner 
until  the  early  harvest  varieties  are  large  enough  for  pies  and  sauce. 
{See  Directions  for  Preserving  Apples  for  Spring  Shipments, 
Etc.) 

Cider. — If  you  wish  to  make  superior  cider,  select  apples  that 
ripen  about  the  same  time.  Leave  the  decayed  and  imperfect  apples 
to  make  vinegar.  Let  the  pomace  remain  without  pressing  as  long  as 
possible,  but  do  not  let  it  approach  fermentation.  Sweet  apples  make 
the  richest  cider ;  use  no  water.  Keep  the  cider  as  cool  as  possible ; 
even  temperature  is  very  important.  Have  ready  a  tub  filled  with 
alternate  layers  of  coarse  gravel  and  charcoal  broken  large ;  lay  on 
the  top  a  piece  of  coarse  flannel.  As  fast  as  the  cider  comes  from  the 
press  pour  it  into  the  tub  ;  a  hole  must  be  bored  in  the  bottom  of  the 
tub  and  a  plug  put  loosely  in,  so  that  the  cider  may  run  through 
slowly.  Pour  it  into  clean  white-oak  casks  as  fast  as  it  leaches 
through,  and  put  it  in  a  cool  dark  cellar  of  even  temperature  im- 
mediately. Leave  the  cask  open  until  all  fermentation  has  ceased ; 
then  put  the  bung  in  tightly.  It  is  said  cider  made  in  this  manner 
will  keep  sweet  for  a  long  time.  Mustard  seed  is  also  used  to  keep 
cider  pleasant  to  drink.  If  cider  free  from  water  is  made  after  freez- 
ing weather  sets  in,  and  drawn  into  clean  barrels,  it  may  be  preserved 
sweet  all  winter  by  being  kept  where  the  thermometer  stands  just 
above  freezing  point.  If  boiled  down  one-quarter,  it  will  be  better 
still. 

To  Prepare  Cider  Vinegar  from  the  Press. — After  the  cider  is 
pressed,  pour  half  as  much  water  on  the  cheese  as  there  was  cider ; 
let  it  remain  until  it  ferments,  then  press  and  barrel  the  watered 
cider ;  keeping  it  in  a  warm  place  facilitates  the  fermentation.  Or, 
reduce  cider  one-half.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  use  the  same  barrels  for 
years  for  vinegar,  which  can  be  done  if  iron-bound  and  well  painted. 
The  mother  should  be  taken  out  before  filling  with  the  new  vinegar, 
the  barrel  rinsed,  the  decayed  mother  thrown  away,  and  the  good 
washed  and  returned  to  the  barrel.  Cucumbers,  green  corn  cobs, 
white  paper  wet  in  molasses,  or  a  grape-vine  sprout,  will  turn 


APPLES.  231 

vinegar  much  more  quickly  than  if  left  to  itself,  with  nothing  hut  the 
cider.  Shake  the  barrels  often  and  leave  them  in  the  sun ;  it  will  turn 
faster  in  half-filled  casks  than  when  full ;  keep  a  bottle  in  the  bung- 
hole  of  each  barrel. 

Deying  Apples. — If  you  wish  dried  apples  to  retain  their  flavor, 
select  very  sour  fruit,  too  acid  to  use  green.  If  dried  in  the  air,  it 
will  be  necessary  to  heat  the  fruit  to  destroy  any  insects'  eggs 
which  may  have  been  laid  in  it  while  drying.  The  safest  way  to  do 
this  would  be  to  place  a  tin  pan  about  half  full  of  the  fruit  over  a 
kettle  containing  boiling  water  until  it  has  heated  through.  The 
usual  method  is  to  put  the  fruit  in  ovens,  but  a  moment's  forgetful- 
ness  often  spoils  the  whole  lot,  while  over  steam  there  is  no  danger 
of  scorching. 

Cooking  Deied  Apples. — Look  over  the  fruit  to  see  if  any  insect 
eggs  may  have  been  left  that  have  hatched ;  wash  and  rinse  the  fruit 
thoroughly  ;  then  cover  over  night  with  clean  soft  water.  If  in  the 
morning  it  is  absorbed  add  a  little  more ;  place  the  pan  over  steam 
until  the  fruit  is  tender,  then  sweeten  to  suit  the  taste.  If  quinces 
are  relished,  a  few  dried  in  the  same  manner  as  apples,  soaked  and 
cooked  with  them,  will  be  an  addition.  Or  the  syrup  left  from  pre- 
served quinces  can  be  used  instead  of  sugar  to  sweeten  them.  Some 
persons  add  lemon  and  raisins. 

Boiled  Cidee. — Boil  sweet  apple  cider  as  soon  as  it  comes  from 
the  press  to  the  consistency  of  thick  molasses  ;  bottle,  cork,  and  seal 
it  while  hot.    Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Cidee  Apple  Sauce. — If  you  like  very  sweet  sauce,  take  only 
sweet  apples ;  if  not,  one-third  sour,  and  two-thirds  sweet.  Peel, 
quarter,  and.  core  the  apples  ;  lay  them  in  the  sun  two  or  three  days 
to  prevent  the  fruit  breaking.  To  every  pailful  of  apples  put  one 
quart  of  boiled  cider.  Boil  slowly  until  the  fruit  becomes  a  dark 
mahogany  color.  To  those  who  like  the  flavor  of  quinces,  two  to  each 
pailful  cut  fine,  will  be  an  addition. 

Apple  Buttee. — Take  to  every  pailful  of  sour  apples,  after  they 
are  peeled,  quartered,  and  cored,  one  quart  of  boiled  cider;  cook 
slowly  until  the-  whole  becomes  a  jam  of  dark  mahogany  color  with 
no  separate  syrup ;  spice  with  cloves,  allspice,  and  cinnamon,  if  it  is 
agreeable,  being  careful  not  to  have  one  spice  predominate  over  the 
other. 


232  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Apple  Sweetmeats. — Select  small-sized  apples,  pare  them  nicely, 
take  out  the  core  with  a  corer,  so  as  to  leave  the  fruit  whole ;  if  the 
apple  is  too  large,  quarter  it.  Take  eight  pounds  of  double  refined 
sugar,  one  quart  of  filtered  or  clean  rain-water,  and  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  citric  acid  dissolved  in  the  water ;  put  the  water  on  the  fire, 
and  when  nearly  boiling  stir  in  one-half  of  the  sugar ;  as  soon  as  it  is 
dissolved,  place  the  kettle  over  a  boiler  of  hot  water  and  stir  in  tho 
remainder  of  the  sugar.  Let  it  remain  until  the  syrup  becomes  per- 
fectly clear,  and  all  the  scum  or  froth  has  been  removed ;  then  put 
into  the  syrup  eight  pounds  of  fruit ;  if  the  apples  are  not  covered 
with  the  syrup,  they  must  be  frequently  turned.  Let  them  remain 
over  the  hot  water  until  the  fruit  is  clear.  Have  ready  some  glass 
jars  which  have  been  put  into  cold  water  and  boiled ;  let  them  re- 
main in  the  boiling  water  until  wanted.  Set  the  preserves  on  a  slow 
fire  until  they  boil  up  ;  put  them  back  over  the  water  to  keep  up  the 
temperature  to  boiling  heat.  Have  ready  corks  and  a  wax  of  rosin 
and  beeswax  melted  together.  Take  out  the  fruit  without  breaking, 
and  fill  up  the  jars  with  syrup  as  soon  as  possible.  Place  a  piece  of 
cotton  wadding  wet  in  brandy  on  the  top  of  the  preserves ;  cork  and 
seal  immediately.  If  it  is  air-tight,  and  the  fruit  put  up  according  to 
directions,  it  will  never  ferment ;  but  as  sometimes  this  is  not  the 
case,  it  will  be  best  to  put  the  jars  where  you  can  see  without  moving 
them ;  should  mould  appear,  let  them  remain  until  wanted,  and  re- 
move it  with  the  cotton  before  shaking  up  the  fruit.  It  will  be  no 
injury  to  the  preserves.  Always  label  preserves,  writing  out  the 
name  and  date.  Some  persons  flavor  with  lemon,  others  like  quinces. 
Appleseeds  pounded  and  tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin,  boiled  in  the  syrup, 
gives  the  apple  flavor. 

Apple  Jelly. — Select  any  rich  juiced  apple,  such  as  golden  pip- 
pin, Newtown  pippin,  or  belleflower,  wash  and  wipe  them,  removing 
the  stems,  and  any  imperfections  of  the  skin.  Allow  one  quart  of 
water  to  one  peck  of  apples,  and  cover  the  kettle  tight.  Be  careful 
not  to  burn  the  fruit.  When  perfectly  tender,  pour  them  into  a  jelly- 
bag,  without  pressing,  and  let  it  drain  into  an  earthen  dish  until  the 
next  morning.  Measure  the  juice,  and  allow  for  every  pint  one  pound 
of  Stewart's  No.  1  granulated  sugar,  place  the  syrup  on  the  fire  in 
a  preserving-kettle  ;  as  soon  as  it  becomes  hot  stir  in  the  sugar,  when 
it  is  melted  the  jelly  is  ready  for  the  moulds.  It  must  not  boil. 
Apple  jelly  can  receive  any  flavor  desired  of  fruit  or  extracts.  The 
most  appropriate  are,  lemon,  quince,  and  bitter  almond. 


APPLES.  233 

Ceab-Apple  Jelly  is  made  in  the  same  maimer,  except  the  addi- 
tion of  a  little  more  water,  say  three  pints  to  a  peck  of  apples. 

Ceab-Apple  Peeserves. — The  apples  must  be  parboiled  before 
putting  in  the  syrup.  The  large  kinds  should  be  cored,  not  peeled ;  the 
small  varieties,  preserved  whole,  with  the  stems  on.  In  every  other 
particular  follow  directions  for  preserving  apples. 

Apple  Marmalade. — Take  either  common,  or  crab  apples ;  after 
they  are  washed  and  wiped  clean,  steam  them  by  placing  a  preserving 
kettle,  over  a  boiler  of  hot  water,  with  a  very  little  water,  not  over 
a  pint  to  a  peck  of  apples ;  cover  tight ;  when  perfectly  cooked,  pass 
the  fruit  through  a  sieve.  Weigh  the  pulp ;  to  every  pound  allow  one 
pound  of  Stewart's  No.  1  granulated  sugar.  Boil  the  pulp  until  quite 
thick,  then  add  the  sugar.  It  must  be  cooked  until  stiff  enough 
to  mould,  and  stirred  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  The  common 
apple  can  be  flavored ;  but  the  crab  is  better  without. 

Apple  Dumplings,  No.  1. — Peel  apples  that  will  cook  quickly  as 
greenings,  pippins,  belleflower,  etc.,  take  out  the  core,  leaving  the 
apple  whole.  {See  Paste  for  Dumplings.)  Prepare  a  plain  paste  as 
you  would  for  very  plain  pies ;  roll  the  crust  about  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick ;  cover  each  apple  separately ;  put  them  in  a  steamer ;  let 
them  steam  about  half  an  hour ;  when  boiled,  put  them  in  boiling 
water,  and  boil  gently,  without  removing  the  cover,  half  an  hour ;  if 
steamed  they  will  require  three-fourths  of  an  hour,  when  they  will  be 
done.    Serve  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  sweet  sauce,  if  preferred. 

Apple  Pie. — Take  in  the  proportion  of  one  pound  of  flour  to  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  have  the  butter  and  flour  very  cold ;  cut  the 
butter  in  small  thin  slices  into  the  flour ;  stir  it  up  quickly,  not  work- 
ing the  butter  into  the  flour ;  add  just  enough  water  to  moisten  the 
paste ;  don't  work  it  up  in  a  lump,  but  take  it  up  ragged,  and  put 
enough  for  a  pie  on  the  moulding-board ;  roll  it  out  thin,  and  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pie  with  the  paste.  Have  ready  sour  apples  sliced  thin ; 
fill  the  plate  with  them ;  roll  out  the  top  crust,  and  cover  the  apples ; 
cut  off  the  crust  neatly  without  pressing  down  the  edge,  and  put  it  in 
the  oven.  "When  the  crust  is  baked,  the  apples  will  be  soft ;  take  out 
the  pie,  remove  the  cover,  add  sugar  to  the  taste,  and  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, the  size  of  an  almond ;  work  it  well  through  the  apple,  spread  it 
evenly,  and  put  on  the  crust.    If  nutmeg  is  relished,  grate  a  dust  over 


234 

the  apple,  before  putting  on  the  cover,  but  don't  mix  it  in.    Apple 
pies  should  always  be  warmed  before  eating. 

Apple  Frittees. — Make  a  batter  in  the  following  manner,  and  stir 
into  it  sour  apples  sliced  thin :  Take  one  pint  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  a 
pint  of  sifted  flour,  and  two  eggs ;  beat  the  yolks  thoroughly,  and  stir 
in  with  the  flour ;  after  the  batter  is  beat  sufficiently  to  break  every 
lump  of  flour,  add  the  whites,  which  must  be  beat  stiff  enough  to 
remain  on  an  inverted  plate.  Dip  one  table-spoonful  of  batter  at  a 
time  into  boiling  lard,  turn  them  over  when  they  rise  to  the  top ; 
when  browned  on  both  sides,  lay  them  in  a  colander  to  drain.  Serve 
hot,  with  maple  syrup,  or  any  sauce  relished.  Fritters  should  be 
boiled  in  a  shallow  kettle,  or  deep  spider,  as  they  will  fly  to  pieces,  if 
there  is  much  depth  of  lard.  Never  stick  a  fork  into  cakes  boiling 
in  lard,  it  makes  them  soak  fat.  Apple  fritters  are  a  dinner  dish. 
Common  fritters  are  made  in  the  same  manner,  omitting  the  apple. 

Boiled  oe  Steamed  Apples. — "Wash  rich  flavored  apples,  take  out 
the  core,  and  leave  the  fruit  whole.  Lay  them  in  a  steamer  until  per- 
fectly tender ;  take  them  out,  and  pour  over  them  sweet  cream  and 
sugar,  and  serve  for  tea. 

Baked  Apples. — Prepare  apples  as  above ;  lay  them  on  baking- 
tins,  fill  the  holes  from  which  the  cores  have  been  taken  with  sugar, 
and  bake  without  burning.  Before  putting  the  fruit  on  the  table,  sift 
loaf  sugar  over  them,  and  serve  for  tea. 

Baked  Sweet  Apples  are  nice  with  cream  alone.  Some  are  fond 
of.  them  with  bread  and  milk. 

Rice  Apple  Dumpling. — Prepare  apples  as  for  apple  dumplings ; 
wash  rice,  and  put  it  in  cold  water  with  a  little  salt ;  let  it  boil  five 
minutes ;  take  enough  of  the  rice  to  cover  the  apple.  Have  ready 
pieces  of  cotton  cloth,  just  large  enough  to  hold  one  dumpling ;  cover 
the  apples  half  an  inch  thick  with  the  rice  ;  tie  up  the  dumplings,  and 
boil  or  steam  them  half  an  hour,  and  serve  with  butter  and  sugar. 

Apple  Pudding. — Make  a  nice  batter,  {see  Battee  Pudding  ;)  pre- 
pare apples  as  for  dumplings ;  put  the  apples  in  a  dish  or  basin,  and 
pour  the  batter  over  them,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  steam  an  hour ; 
serve  with  butter  and  sugar  worked  together  until  light  and  creamy. 

Apple  Taets. — For  apple  tarts,  the  apples  must  be  sifted  after  they 
^re  stewed.    When  eggs  are  added,  they  are  called  apple  custards. 


APPLES.  *  235 

Green  Apples. — Pies  can  be  made  in  the  same  manner  as  thongh 
the  apples  were  ripe ;  it  is  not  necessary  to  stew  them,  as  many  imagine, 
after  they  are  half  grown ;  they  will  cook  in  the  crust.  If  very 
green,  put  into  the  pie  a  little  water  before  baking.  It  often  hap- 
pens, that  apples  in  the  spring  lose  their  flavor  and  become  insipid ; 
when  this  is  the  case,  add  to  each  pie  a  piece  of  citric  acid  as  large  as 
a  filbert,  dissolved  in  a  little  water.    This  must  be  done  before  baking. 

Hermetically  Sealed  est  Cans. — Have  made  air-tight  tin  cans ; 
fill  these  with  'apples  peeled,  quartered,  and  cored,  and  seal  them  tight. 
Then  perforate  each  can  with  a  common  awl ;  place  them  in  a  vat  or 
boiler,  with  just  enough  cold  water  to  rise  to  the  top  of  the  can  while 
boiling.  "When  the  cans  and  fruit  are  the  same  temperature  as  boiling 
water ;  drop  some  solder  on  the  small  holes,  and  take  them  from  the 
vat.  If  they  are  perfect,  the  ends  will  be  drawn  in,  and  remain  so. 
If  not,  they  are  imperfect,  either  in  the  exhausting,  or  can,  and  will 
certainly  burst  the  cans.  If  the  leak  cannot  be  immediately  found, 
the  can  must  be  opened  to  save  it.  If  found,  the  same  process  of 
exhausting  must  be  gone  over  again.    {See  "Water  Bath.) 

Hermetically  Sealed  in  Bottles. — Prepare  apples  as  for  cans. 
Fill  nearly  to  the  cork  with  apples,  then  put  enough  filtered  water  in 
each  bottle  to  reach  within  one  and  a  half  inches  from  the  cork.  The 
cork  must  be  very  tight,  and  well  wired  down.  Place  the  bottles  in 
vats,  containing  sufficient  cold  water  to  reach  the  necks;  heat  the 
water  gradually.  "When  the  fruit  begins  to  crack,  take  out  the  bottles, 
and  seal  air-tight.  If  there  has  been  no  imperfection  in  sealing  or 
exhausting,  the  fruit  will  remain  the  same  for  years ;  but  the  slightest 
amount  of  air  will  certainly  burst  the  bottles.     {See  Water  Bath.) 

Directions  for  Preserving  Quantities  of  Apples  for  Spring 
Shipments. — Gather  carefully,  as  directed  in  the  first  part  of  this 
chapter,  lay  them  as  soon  as  gathered  in  a  heap,  eighteen  inches 
deep,  and  cover  them  with  a  light  cloth  or  straw,  where  they  will 
soon  sweat ;  when  this  has  succeeded  as  desired,  remove  the  cover- 
ing, open  the  windows  and  doors,  and  cool  them  as  suddenly  as  possi- 
ble. When  entirely  dry,  repeat  this  process  exactly,  and  when 
perfectly  dry,  pack  in  barrels  and  ship.  If  apples,  when  bought,  are 
found  to  be  damp,  empty  the  barrels  and  cool  them  suddenly,  remov- 
ing all  decaying  fruit.  Fruit  buyers  would  lose  much  less  fruit,  if  they 
could  spread  and  dry  apples  as  soon  as  received,  when  they  should  be 
again  repacked.    Apples  managed  as  above,  can  be  sent  to  Europe 


236 

with  but  little  danger.    The  varieties,  whose  keeping  qualities  are  the 
best,  should  be  selected  for  long  voyages. 


CHAPTER    II. 

PEACHES. 
HERMETICALLY  SEAL,   PRESERVE,   ETC. 

Remarks. — It  would  be  impossible  to  mention  the  many  excellent 
varieties  now  grown  for  the  dessert  and  table  use  of  this  delicious 
fruit.  Among  the  very  early,  Large  Early  York  probably  stands 
among  the  first ;  then  there  is  Early  Tillotson,  Early  Purple,  and  many 
others.  Later  comes  Early  Crawford,  Le  Grange,  Rare  Ripes,  Red, 
and  Yellow ;  George,  Old  Mixon  Free,  and  many  others  equally  good. 
For  brandy  fruit,  Morris  White  is  preferred  before  all  others,  and  Snow 
comes  next ;  but  these  are  often  scarce ;  the  trees  being  shy  bearers. 
Old  Mixon  Free  comes  next  for  preserves,  etc. ;  although  not  as  white 
as  the  two  last  mentioned,  it  will  do  very  well  when  the  two  first  can- 
not be  procured.  Use  Freestone  peaches  always  for  preserves ;  they 
are  not  only  less  trouble,  but  more  tender,  and  not  as  liable  to  shrink. 

Brandy  Peaches. — Take  one  quart  of  water,  a  table-spoonful  of 
citric  acid,  and  eight  pounds  of  the  best  sugar ;  put  the  whole  in  a 
preserving  kettle,  and  set  it  over  steam  until  the  sugar  is  melted,  and 
the  syrup  becomes  perfectly  clear ;  should  any  scum  arise,  skim  it  off 
when  quite  clear,  let  it  cool  until  about  blood-heat ;  then  mix  with 
the  syrup  the  same  quantity  of  the  best  quality  of  white  French 
brandy ;  beat  it  well  together,  or  the  syrup  will  settle,  being  so 
very  thick  as  not  to  mix  readily  with  the  brandy;  take  perfectly 
ripe,  but  not  soft,  Morris  "White,  or  some  other  white-fleshed 
peaches ;  dip  them  in  boiling  water,  just  long  enough  to  make  the 
skin  slip  from  the  fruit  with  ease.  Pack  as  many  peaches  as 
possible  without  breaking,  in  wide-mouthed  bottles  or  jars,  and  pour 
over  them  the  brandy  syrup,  being  careful  to  keep  the  fruit  under 
the  syrup,  which  must  not  quite  reach  the  cork.  Leave  a  little  syrup 
until  the  next  day,  as  the  fruit  will  absorb  so  much  as  to  make  it  ne- 
cessary to  fill  the  bottles  again  before  sealing.  Seal  them  perfectly, 
and  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place,  if  possible. 


PEACHES.  237 

Peaches  Peeseeved  in  Souk  Syeup. — Take  one  quart  of  the  best 
wine  or  cider  vinegar,  four  pounds  good  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  whole 
cloves,  one  table-spoonful  of  mace,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  rolled, 
not  ground,  cinnamon ;  melt  the  sugar  in  the  vinegar  and  add  the 
spices ;  do  not  let  it  quite  boil,  as  that  destroys  the  acid  of  the  vinegar. 
Wash,  and  rub  free  from  fur,  perfectly  ripe  Freestone  peaches,  of 
fine  flavor,  and  small  pits  ;  they  must  not  be  soft,  or  they  will  break ; 
nor  green,  as  then  they  will  shrink ;  pack  them  in  glass  bottles  or 
jars,  and  pour  over  them  the  vinegar  syrup ;  cork  the  bottles  and  set 
them  in  water,  about  the  same  heat  as  the  syrup  is,  after  being  poured 
over  the  cold  fruit;  let  them  remain  until  heated  through,  which 
will  be  after  the  water  has  boiled  about  fifteen  minutes.  It  will  be 
best  to  wire  down  the  corks,  as  the  heat  will  force  them  out ;  seal 
them  when  first  taken  out  the  water,  and  keep  the  jars  in  a  cool  place ; 
they  sometimes  mould,  which  will  do  no  injury  unless  mixed  with  the 
syrup,  except  to  the  top  peach.  Should  the  vinegar  not  seem  suffi- 
ciently acid,  add  a  teaspoon  of  citric  acid  to  the  syrup. 

Sotje  Spiced  Peaches. — Take  hard  peaches,  of  good  flavor ;  wash 
them  in  hot  water  and  rub  the  skins  with  a  harsh  towel  to  remove  the 
roughness ;  stick  into  each  peach  three  cloves,  and  pour  over  the  fruit 
strong  vinegar  scalding  hot,  seasoned  with  cinnamon,  ginger,  mustard, 
mace,  and  nutmeg ;  do  this  three  times ;  then  take  fresh  vinegar,  season 
as  above,  slightly ;  heat  it  and  pour  over  the  fruit,  which  must  be  kept 
under  the  vinegar,  and  corked  tight ;  examine  them  often,  as  the 
vinegar  may  become  lifeless,  and  spoil  the  fruit. 

Sweet  Spiced  Peaches. — Select  large  Freestone  peaches  with  large 
pits,  quite  ripe,  but  not  the  least  soft ;  remove  the  roughness  of  the 
skin  by  friction;  then  halve  the  peach,  and  take  out  the  pit;  fill 
the  cavity  with  white  mustard-seed,  one  pod  of  bird  or  cherry  pepper 
very  small,  or  if  these  cannot  be  obtained,  two  kernels  of  black  pep- 
per, a  few  cassia  buds,  and  a  piece  of  mace ;  sew  them  up,  pour 
over  them  hot  vinegar,  three  times  ;  add  to  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one 
pound  of  sugar ;  heat  the  syrup  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit ;  cover 
tight  and  keep  the  peaches  under  the  syrup  ;  examine  often,  and  keep 
them  in  a  cold  place ;  if  the  fruit  is  very  hard,  after  being  scalded, 
set  the  bottles  in  the  bath  until  heated  through. 

Plain  Peach  Sauce. — Take  five  pounds  of  peaches,  so  ripe  that 
the  skin  will  slip  off  without  scalding  or  peeling  with  the  knife ; 
mash  them  very  fine ;  boil  slowly  one  hour,  stirring  often ;  after  which 


238  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

add  one  pound  of  sugar ;  continue  to  boil  over  a  slow  fire,  oiten  stir- 
ring, until  the  whole  becomes  a  dark  mahogany  color,  free  from 
juice  ;  pack  it  in  jars  that  can  be  sealed  tight  while  hot ;  dip  a  paper 
in  brandy,  and  lay  on  the  top  of  each  jar  ;  then  cork  and  seal  tightly ; 
keep  it  as  cool  as  possible.     Use  the  sauce  as  soon  as  opened. 

Peach  Jam. — Prepare  the  fruit  as  above ;  boil  slowly  one  hour ; 
then  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit ;  when  finished,  it 
will  be  quite  stiff.    Pack  it  in  wide-mouthed  jars,  and  seal  tight. 

Peach  Marmalade. — Prepare  peaches  as  for  jam,  boil  one  hour ; 
mix  equal  parts  of  sugar  with  the  jam ;  when  dissolved,  pass  the 
whole  through  a  sieve ;  boil  slowly  two  hours,  being  very  careful  not 
to  burn;  spread  it  on  plates  and  set  it  in  a  cool  oven,  where  it 
will  dry  but  not  burn,  for  a  half-day,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  pack 
into  moulds  ;  cover  the  moulds  with  paper  dipped  into  the  white  of 
eggs,  beaten  as  stiff  as  possible ;  it  must  be  entirely  free  from  juice, 
of  a  dark  mahogany  color  and  clear  when  finished,  sufficiently  stiff  to 
cut  with  a  knife ;  keep  it  cool ;  it  is  liable  to  mould,  which  can  be  the 
more  readily  removed  if  a  piece  of  paper,  closely  fitting  the  edges  of 
the  jar,  is  pressed  firmly  on  the  marmalade  before  covering  with  the  egg 
paper.  No  air  should  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  fruit,  which 
should  be  packed  very  closely ;  and  as  the  marmalade  is  very  thick,  it 
will  require  some  care  to  accomplish  it. 

Peach  Jelly. — This  can  only  be  made  by  setting  the  syrup  of 
Peaches  with  isinglass  or  gelatine,  as  there  seems  to  be  but  little 
natural  gelatine  in  the  fruit. 

Peaohwater  Ice. — Sweeten  the  juice  of  peaches;  blanch  and 
pound  fine  the  pits ;  stir  them  into  the  syrup  ;  let  the  whole  remain 
two  hours ;  to  every  gallon  of  syrup  add  one  quart  of  water  ;  strain 
through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  and  freeze ;  should  the  ice  be  wanted  in 
haste,  the  pits  can  be  scalded  in  the  water  to  extract  the  flavor,  and 
strained  into  the  syrup. 

Peach  Butter. — Select  very  ripe  peaches,  peel,  remove  the  pits, 
and  mash  them ;  have  ready  rich  sweet  cider,  reduced  by  boiling  to  the 
consistency  of  molasses",  (or  four  gallons  to  one ;)  add  to  each  gallon, 
after  boiling,  one  pound  of  sugar ;  simmer  the  peaches  in  the  cider, 
and  sugar  until  the  whole  is  reduced  to  paste ;  allow  a  pint  of  the 
molasses  and  sugar  to  three  quarts  of  the  mashed  fruit.    This  is  a 


PEACHES.  239 

southern  mode  of  preserving  peaches,  and  is  very  excellent ;  it  is  used 
in  the  same  manner  as  cider  apple  sauce. 

Beandy  Peach  Syettp. — Boil  over  steam  until  reduced  to  a  mass, 
two  gallons  of  peaches,  with  the  pits  cracked ;  pour  over  them  two 
quarts  French  brandy  ;  cover  tight  and  leave  them  over  night ;  then 
strain  all  the  syrup  from  them,  and  add  to  every  quart  three  pounds  of 
sugar,  and  a  salt-spoon  of  citric  acid ;  bring  it  to  a  scald,  pass  it  through 
a  jelly  bag,  and  bottle  it,  cork  and  seal  tightly ;  use  it  for  jellies  or 
sauces. 

Dbytng  Peaches  with  Sugar,  No.  1. — Select  rich  flavored  fruit, 
quite  ripe ;  take  off  the  skin,  and  slice  the  peaches  quite  thin ;  spread 
the  fruit  on  plates,  and  scatter  over  it  some  coffee  sugar ;  set  the  plates 
in  the  oven  until  the  fruit  becomes  hot ;  then  dry  slowly,  either  in 
the  oven,  or  sun ;  if  the  latter,  heat  it  before  packing  away,  to  destroy 
any  insect  eggs  which  may  have  been  laid  in  the  fruit  while  drying. 
Pack  in  stone  jars,  and  paste  paper  over  the  mouth ;  set  the  jars  out 
of  the  reach  of  mice. 

Anothee  Method  of  Deying  Peaches  with  Sugar,  No.  2. — To 
five  pounds  of  sliced  peaches,  take  one  of  sugar,  put  them  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle  until  heated  through  ;  skim  out  the  fruit,  leaving  the 
syrup  in  the  kettle ;  dry  the  peaches  in  the  oven  slowly,  until  the 
juice  is  all  absorbed ;  boil  down  the  syrup  left  in  the  kettle,  as  thick 
as  possible  without  burning ;  pack  the  dried  fruit  in  jars,  and  pour 
over  it  the  syrup  ;  paste  paper  over  the  mouth  of  the  jar,  and  set  it 
in  a  cool  dry  place. 

Common  Deied  Peaches,  No.  3. — Eemove  the  skin  from  dead-ripe 
peaches  of  superior  flavor  ;  cut  them  in  thin  slices,  string  and  hang  in 
the  sun,  or  spread  them  thin  on  clean  white  wood  boards  to  dry. 
Fruit  is  best  dried  in  kilns,  but  few  have  this  convenience.  Heat  the 
fruit  in  the  same  manner  as  recommended  for  dried  apples,  and  pack 
in  paper  bags. 

Stewing  Deied  Pea.ches.-^Fo11ow  the  directions  for  stewing  dried 
apples ;  those  dried  with  sugar  will  need  no  sweetening ;  save  the 
syrup  left  from  preserved  peaches,  to  use  in  seasoning  dried  peaches ; 
the  only  way  to  do  it  is  to  scald  the  syrup  and  bottle  it  hot  before 
it  ferments. 

Peach  Leathee. — Take  very  rich  sweet  peaches,  so  ripe  as  to  be 
near  decaying,  but  before  decomposition  has  commenced,  peel  and 


240  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

mash  them  fine ;  spread  evenly  on  plates  and  dry  slowly  in  the  oven; 
when  dry,  it  will  somewhat  resemble  sole-leather ;  roll  it  up  and  put  it 
away  in  paper  bags ;  when  wanted,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  and  soak 
over  night  in  only  water  enough  to  cover  it.  It  does  not  need  sugar 
if  the  peaches  are  as  sweet  as  they  should  be ;  if  not,  sweeten  to  taste ; 
it  needs  no  stewing,  and  is  excellent ;  it  would  be  ready  for  tea  if  put 
to  soak  in  the  morning.  This  is  the  best  way  of  drying  peaches, 
as  the  flavor  is  retained  almost  perfectly  ;  and  not  only  this,  but  the 
fruit  can  be  saved  without  the  expense  of  sugar,  when  too  far  gone  for 
the  other  methods  of  drying. 

Eich  Preserved  Peaches,  Hermetically  Sealed. — Obtain,  if 
possible,  Morris  White  peaches ;  if  these  cannot  be  had,  some  other 
white-fleshed  peach  of  fine  quality ;  much  depends  on  the  variety  of 
peach  used  in  making  high  flavored  sweetmeats ;  rather  use  yellow 
or  red-fleshe*d  peaches,  than  poor,  tasteless  whites ;  never  use  Clings, 
if  you  can  obtain  Frees.  Make  the  syrup  in  the  same  manner  de- 
scribed in  the  recipe  Preserved  Pears,  allowing  one  pound  of  sugar 
to  one  of  fruit ;  the  fruit  should  be  fully  ripe,  but  not  in  the  least 
soft ;  stone  hard  peaches,  make  a  very  poor  preserve ;  scald  the  fruit 
in  boiling  water  to  remove  the  skin,  but  be  careful  it  does  not  cook ; 
when  the  fruit  is  in  the  proper  state,  dipping  the  fruit  will  be  suffi- 
cient ;  care  must  be  taken  in  this,  or  the  fruit  is  ruined.  Lay  each 
peach  in  cold  water  as  soon  as  peeled  ;  when  the  syrup  is  in  the  clear 
state,  put  enough  fruit  in  the  kettle  for  two  bottles,  which  must  be 
prepared  as  described  in  preserved  pears ;  let  the  fruit  remain  in  the 
syrup  over  steam,  long  enough  to  become  heated  through ;  then  lift 
each  peach  one  by  one,  with  a  spoon  or  silver  fork ;  fill  the  bottle 
two-thirds  full  of  fruit,  and  fill  with  the  syrup ;  blanch  one  dozen 
peach  pits  to  every  quart  of  preserves,  and  lay  them  in  the  top  of  the 
bottles ;  cover  over  the  bottles,  so  that  flies  cannot  get  in  during  the 
night ;  the  next  morning,  fill  the  bottles  within  one  inch  of  the  top 
with  syrup  left  for  that  purpose  ;  cork  with  close-fitting  corks,  of  the 
best  quality,  and  wire  them  firmly ;  set  the  bottles  in  cold  water,  and 
heat  gradually ;  let  the  water  boil  five  minutes  with  the  fruit  in,  if 
cut  in  halves,  and  ten  if  preserved  whole ;  have  ready  rosin  and 
bees-wax  melted  together,  to  seal  over  the  corks,  which  must  be  done 
very  particularly ;  let  them  remain  until  perfectly  cool,  then  turn 
them  over  the  corks  down,  and  examine  closely ;  if  no  moisture  escapes, 
they  are  well  sealed,  and  will  never  ferment,  even  if  kept  for  years. 
This  sweetmeat  is  far  too  rich  for  common  use.    Don't  forget  to  label 


PEACHES.  241 

and  date  the  bottles.    It  is  well  to  put  them  in  a  cool,  dark,  and  dry 
place ;  they  will  be  less  apt  to  mould  if  kept  in  the  dark. 

Natural  Preserved  Peaches,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No.  3.— 
Prepare  the  fruit  in  the  same  manner  as  for  rich  preserved  peaches. 
Blanch  the  same  amount  of  pits  for  each  bottle.  Weigh  the  fruit, 
and  allow  a  half-pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit.  To  every  three 
pounds  of  sugar  allow  one  pint  of  water,  in  which  a  half-teaspoonful 
of  citric  acid  has  been  dissolved ;  prepare  the  syrup  over  steam  in 
the  same  manner  as  described  in  Preserved  Apples.  When  melted, 
it  will  be  about  three  pints.  Have  the  syrup  ready  before  the  fruit 
is  prepared.  Halve  the  peaches,  and  put  them  in  quart  bottles,  not 
so  as  to  crowd,  but  pretty  full ;  lay  the  hollow  side  down,  as  they  will 
pack  better.  Pour  over  the  syrup  either  cold  or  hot  as  convenient. 
Lay  in  the  blanched  pits,  cork  tightly,  and  wire  firmly.  As  soon  as 
the  bottles  are  all  ready,  place  them  in  the  water  bath,  in  cold  water, 
which  must  be  within  three  inches  of  the  cork.  After  the  water 
boils,  let  the  fruit  remain  in  the  bath  a  half  hour.  Then  seal  imme- 
diately, and  when  cool  turn  them  up  to  test  the  sealing.  Set  them  in 
a  cool,  dry,  and  dark  place,  where  they  can  be  examined  without 
trouble ;  label  and  date  the  bottles.  This  fruit  retains  more  of  the 
peach  flavor  than  the  former,  and  is  a  very  fine  sweetmeat;  good 
enough  for  all  occasions.     {See  Water  Bath.) 

Peaches  to  Preserve  Elegantly,  Hermetically  Sealed. — Se- 
lect the  fruit  after  it  is  colored  and  flavored,  but  perfectly  hard.  Kub 
them  with  a  small  brush  without  bruising  the  skin ;  do  not  peel  the 
fruit.  Put  them  in  cold  water  in  an  enamelled  kettle,  set  it  over 
steam  until  the  water  reaches  to  the  heat  of  140° ;  have  ready  a  weak 
syrup,  lay  in  the  peaches,  heat  to  140°,  and  keep  the  syrup  that  heat 
one  hour  without  increasing.  In  the  mean  time  make  a  rich  syrup 
with  one  pint  of  water,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid,  and  three 
pounds  of  the  best  loaf-sugar ;  heat  it  over  water ;  when  dissolved,  bring 
it  to  a  boil,  skim  and  strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve  ;  put  it  back  in  the 
kettle,  and  place  it  over  hot  water.  Have  ready  wide-mouthed  jars, 
pack  the  fruit  closely  without  breaking,  fill  the  bottles  to  within  one 
inch  of  the  cork,  pour  over  them  the  syrup  while  hot,  cork  them,  and 
let  them  remain  one  day  ;  press  the  fruit  under  the  syrup,  wire  the 
corks,  set  them  in  the  bath,  bring  the  water  to  boiling  heat,  let  them 
boil  ten  minutes,  and  seal  tightly.  This  is  the  most  elegant  manner  of 
preserving  peaches ;  the  fruit  retains  its  color  and  flavor,  and  will  re- 

11 


242 

main  perfect  any  length  of  time.  The  receipt  originated  with  the 
writer,  and  is  for  the  first  time  made  public.  No  person  can  preserve 
well  without  using  a  thermometer.  Dip  it  in  the  syrup,  or  water, 
above  the  bulb  of  quicksilver ;  it  will  not  break.  If  used  carefully, 
they  will  last  for  years;  for  culinary  purposes,  they  should  be  cased 
in  japanned  tin. 

Very  Plain  Peach  Preserves,  Hermetically  Sealed.  —  Pro- 
ceed in  every  way  as  described  in  Natural  Preserved  Peaches,  ex- 
cept in  the  richness  of  the  syrup,  which  has  only  half  the  sugar. 
Make  it  thus :  Weigh  for  every  pound  of  fruit  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  syrup.  It  will  not  be  necessary  to  use  the  acid ;  the  syrup  being 
so  thin,  there  will  be  no  danger  of  the  sugar  becoming  crystallized. 
To  four  pounds  of  sugar,  take  one  quart  of  water,  and  divide  the 
syrup  equally  with  the  fruit. 

Peach  Jam  for  Tarts,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No.  1. — Take 
very  ripe  sweet  yellow  peaches,  mash  fine,  and  pass  them  through  a 
sieve.  Have  ready  quart  cans  air-tight;  fill  them  within  one  inch 
of  the  top  and  seal  up  ;  after  piercing  the  cans  with  an  awl,  place 
them  in  a  water  bath  filled  to  within  two  inches  of  the  top  of  the 
can  with  cold  water,  which  must  be  gradually  heated.  Let  them 
boil  one  hour,  or  until  the  jam  is  forced  out  the  small  aperture; 
then  seal  up,  and  take  them  from  the  bath ;  examine  the  cans  as 
soon  as  cool.  If  the  ends  are  well  drawn  in,  they  are  thought  to  be 
perfect,  although  it  4s  not  always  the  case.    (See  Testing  Cans.) 

Plain  Peach  Jam  for  the  Table,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No. 
2. — Mash  fine  good  flavored  peaches,  put  them  into  a  preserving 
bottle  over  steam,  and  let  them  become  very  hot.  To  eight  quarts  of 
jam  put  four  pounds  of  sugar.  Stir  it  in  the  jam  while  hot,  when 
entirely  dissolved;  fill  quart  cans  to  within  one-quarter  of  an  inch 
of  the  top.  Have  the  caps  sealed  on  while  hot.  Place  them  in  the 
hot  water  bath,  and  pierce  the  caps  before  the  water  boils ;  let  them 
boil  ten  minutes  hard,  if  the  cans  are  hot  when  put  in — if  cool,  twenty ; 
solder  the  aperture  before  taking  them  from  the  water.  Examine 
when  cold.  This  is  very  fine,  the  flavor  is  retained  nearly  perfect. 
Tin  cans  should  always  be  marked  in  some  way  before  the  caps  are 
sealed  on.  A  good  way  to  do  this  is  to  dissolve  nitrate  of  silver  in 
a  little  rain  water,  and  with  a  sharp-pointed  stick  write  the  name, 
kind  of  fruit,  and  when  put  up,  upon  the  side  of  the  can,  so  that  if 


PEACHES.  243 

they  are  packed  one  above  the  other,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  take 
the  whole  down  to  find  the  one  wanted. 

Peeserved  Peaches  in  Cans,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No.  4. — 
Peaches  can  be  preserved  in  cans  just  as  well  as  bottles,  but  is  more 
trouble  to  persons  generally,  as  they  must  either  send  the  cans  to  the 
tinner,  or  he  must  come  to  the  house,  to  solder  on  the  caps.  Many  of 
the  self-sealing  cans  are  used  now,  but  are  quite  expensive,  and  no  tin 
is  certain  more  than  a  year.  Those  with  lead  caps  are  very  danger- 
ous to  use  ;  as  the  lead  and  acid  often  forms  acetate,  or  sugar  of  lead, 
a  deadly  poison.  No  one  can  be  certain  in  earthen  that  the  fruit  is 
free  from  air,  and  if  not,  it  certainly  will  ferment,  unless  very  rich 
and  thoroughly  impregnated  with  sugar. 

Fresh  Peaches,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No.  1. — Take  fine-flavor- 
ed fruit,  remove  the  skin  by  scalding,  and  lay  them  in  water  until 
wanted ;  fill  the  cans  almost  full,  packing  the  fruit  pit  side  down ; 
put  in  each  quart  can  a  half-pint  tumbler  half  full  of  water,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  sugar.  After  they  are  sealed  and 
pierced,  place  them  in  the  bath,  filled  to  within  two  inches  of  the 
top  of  the  can  with  cold  water.  Heat  until  the  water  becomes  boil- 
ing hot,  if  heated  in  a  kettle  over  a  slow  fire ;  if  by  steam,  let  them 
remain  in  the  bath  half  an  hour  after  the  water  reaches  170°,  which 
can  be  known  by  testing  with  a  thermometer.  Solder  the  aperture 
as  soon  as  possible  after  this  takes  place,  as  more  cooking  impairs 
the  flavor  of  the  fruit,  and  take  the  cans  immediately  from  the  bath, 
and  turn  them  bottom  side  up.  Notice  if  an^  of  the  cans  make  a 
noise;  if  so,' they  probably  leak.  To  ascertain  this,  place  the  can  on 
the  stove  a  short  time,  and  the  juice  will  appear  in  the  leak,  which 
must  be  immediately  soldered  up.  Be  very  careful  that  the  can  does 
not  become  too  hot,  as  it  will  burst,  and  be  apt  to  burn  those  near. 
"When  it  looks  at  all  swollen  take  it  from  the  stove.  If  no  leak  is 
shown,  set  it  aside  for  further  inspection.  Leaks  can  be  often  found 
by  careful  examination  of  the  can  without  putting  on  the  stove,  and 
when  this  can  be  done,  of  course  it  is  the  best  method.  When  the 
air  is  fully  exhausted,  and  the  can  air-tight,  the  peaches  will  be  just 
as  good  years  after  as  when  just  put  up.  But  if,  on  the  contrary, 
the  exhaustion  or  can  is  the  least  imperfect,  sooner  or  later  the  fer- 
mentation will  burst  the  can.  So  that,  if  the  leaks  cannot  be  found, 
it  is  the  best  policy  to  use  the  fruit  immediately.  This  will  save 
both  can  and  fruit.    (See  Testing  Cans.) 


244 

Fkesii  Peaciies  without  Sugar,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No. 
2. — Prepare  the  fruit  and  exhaust  the  air  from  the  cans  in  the  same 
mauner  as  in  Table  Peaches.  Put  in  each  quart  can  half  a  gill  of 
filtered  rain,  or  clean  soft  water,  but  no  sugar.  If  used  for  the  table, 
add  sugar  to  the  taste  when  wanted.  Peaches  prepared  in  this 
manner  make  delicious  pies. 

Peach  Pie. — Line  a  deep  pie-plate  with  nice  paste;  peel  and 
halve  as  many  peaches  as  will  fill  the  plate ;  add  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut  and  a  little  sugar,  be  careful  not  to  get  it  too  sweet, 
and  dust  over  a  little  flour.  Cover  with  the  paste  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  When  the  paste  is  baked,  the  fruit  will  be.  Some  serve 
with  cream,  but  it  is  good  enough  without.  Serve  fresh.  They  may 
be  made  as  tarts,  without  heating  the  fruit. 

Plain  Peach  Pudding,  No.  1. — Line  a  pudding-dish  with  plain 
paste  ;  peel  as  many  peaches  as  the  dish  will  contain  whole  ;  put  the 
fruit  in  the  dish  ;  sift  over  a  very  little  sugar  ;  add  two  small  pieces 
of  nice  butter,  a  half-pint  of  water,  and  a  sifting  of  flour.  Cover  all 
with  a  nice  paste,  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  {See  Kich  Peach 
Pudding,  Nos.  3  and  4.) 

Plain  Peach  Pudding,  No.  2. — Make  a  nice  batter,  put  whole 
peaches  after  peeling  in  a  shallow  pudding-dish;  pour  over  just 
enough  batter  to  cover  them.  Serve  with  sugar  and  butter  worked 
together  to  form  a  cream. 


CHAPTER  III. 

PEAES  AND   QUINCES,   HERMETICALLY   SEALING,   ETC. 

Plain  Boiled  Pears. — Take  the  common  French,  or  any  small- 
sized  acid  pear ;  wash  and  wipe  them  clean,  leaving  on  the  stems. 
Put  them  in  an  iron  kettle.  To  about  half  a  peck  of  pears  put  a 
quart  bowl  full  of  sugar,  and  a  teacupful  of  water ;  cover  them,  and 
boil  over  a  slow  fire  until  thoroughly  cooked.  Maple-sugar  is  the 
best,  but  any  other  will  do. 

Preserved  Pears. — Peel  small-sized  pears,  leave  the  stem  one 
inch  long,  weigh  them,  and  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit ; 


PEARS    AND    QUINCES.  245 

put  one  pint  of  water  and  one  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid  to  every  four 
pounds  of  sugar.  Melt  the  sugar  and  acid  slowly  over  steam  ;  when 
melted  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  skim  the  syrup  well  and  keep  it  over 
the  steam  until  wanted.  At  the  same  time  the  syrup  is  in  the 
process  of  preparation,  have  the  pears  boiling  in  a  preserving-kettle 
in  sufficient  water  to  cover  them,  in  which  is  dissolved  citric  acid 
sufficient  to  taste  quite  acid.  When  so  tender  that  a  straw 
can  be  run  through  them,  take  them  out  and  put  them  in  the 
syrup,  where  they  must  remain  about  twenty  minutes.  Have  ready 
some  glass  jars  or  bottles  with  mouths  large  enough  to  take  in  the 
fruit  without  breaking  ;  put  them  in  cold  water,  and  boil  them  ;  put 
the  fruit  into  the  bottles  while  they  are  hot.  This  is  done  for  two 
objects :  first,  to  prevent  the  hot  preserves  from  breaking  the  bottles, 
and  secondly  to  prevent  the  fruit  from  fermentation  by  the  cold  air. 
Cork  tight,  and  seal  up  each  bottle  while  the  syrup  is  boiling  hot. 
Be  careful  to  seal  perfectly  tight ;  ahole  no  larger  than  a  cambric 
needle  will  do  as  much  mischief  as  one  much  larger.  Put  cotton 
wadding  over  the  fruit,  as  described  in  the  directions  for  Preserv- 
ing Apples.  Label  and  date  the  jars ;  keep  them  in  a  cool,  dry,  and 
dark  place,  where  they  can  be  seen  without  disturbing  the  bottles. 
{See  observations  on  mould  in  the  recipe  for  Preserving  Apples.) 
Stewart's  No.  1  granulated  is  not  only  the  best,  but  cheapest  sugar 
to  use  in  preserving  fruits  of  every  description.  All  fruit  should  be 
thrown  into  water  as  soon  as  peeled,  to  prevent  its  turning  dark  from 
the  rust  of  the  knife. 

Brandy  Pears. — Prepare  and  boil  the  fruit  as  for  preserves. 
Make  the  syrup  in  the  same  manner;  let  the  pears  lie  in  white 
French  brandy  over  night,  covered  close.  In  the  morning  take  equal 
quantities  of  the  brandy  and  syrup  ;  beat  them  together  until  thor- 
oughly mixed  ;  put  the  fruit  in  bottles,  strain  and  pour  over  them  the 
prepared  brandy  syrup  ;  cork  and  seal  tight.  It  is  very  important  to 
keep  the  fruit  under  the  syrup.  Label  and  date ;  keep  in  a  cool,  dark, 
and  dry  place. 

Ginger  Pear. — Prepare  Yirgaloo  pears  as  for  preserves,  except 
they  must  be  cut  into  about  four  equal  parts.  Make  a  syrup  as  rich 
and  in  the  same  proportion.  Take  green  ginger,  scrape  it  clean,  put 
to  every  pound  of  pears  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger,  boil  it  with 
the  pears,  until  tender,  then  put  it  in  the  bottles  with  the  fruit,  and 
the  same  number  of  slices  in  each  bottle.  Prepare  the  bottles  and 
put  up  the  fruit  in  the  same  manner  as  preserved  pears. 


246         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Lemon  Peaks. — Prepare  and  boil  Virgaloo  as  for  ginger  pears ; 
make  the  syrup  as  for  preserves,  and  flavor  high  with  lemon ;  su- 
perior extract,  and  citric  acid  are  much  better  than  the  fruit,  in  giving 
lemon  flavor,  as  the  peel  is  apt  to  be  bitter.  Put  up  the  fruit  in  the 
same  manner  as  described  for  preserves. 

Pickled  Peaks. — Prepare  pears  as  for  preserves,  boil  until  tender ; 
stick  into  each  of  them  three  or  four  cloves ;  take  one  quart  of  wine, 
or  strong  cider  vinegar,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon broken  into  pieces  two  inches  long,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
mace,  and  half  an  ounce  of  dry  ginger  scraped  and  washed  clean. 
Put  all  into  a  preserving-kettle,  let  it  remain  over  steam  where  it 
nearly  boils  two  hours,  then  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid  in  a 
little  of  the  syrup,  and  stir  it  in  while  hot.  Put  the  fruit  into  the 
syrup  a  half  hour,  then  bottle,  cork,  and  seal  tight.  Keep  in  a  cool 
place,  the  same  as  other  preserved  fruit.  This  is  not  a  proper  pickle 
for  dinner,  it  should  be  served  for  tea  and  suppers.  They  can  be 
pickled  also  with  or  without  sugar  or  spices,  for  sour  pickles. 

Hermetically-sealed  fresh  Stewed  Pears. — Wash  and  wipe  dry 
small- sized  pears;  boil  until  quite  tender.  Make  a  light  syrup  of 
either  maple,  or  No.  1  coffee  sugar,  to  the  proportion  of  four  pounds 
to  one  quart  of  filtered  or  clean  rain-water ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
citric  acid.  Have  ready  tin  cans  perfectly  air-tight,  fill  the  cans 
nearly  full  of  the  boiled  fruit,  pour  over  it  the  prepared  syrup,  allow- 
ing a  half-pound  of  sugar  to  every  quart  can.  After  the  tinner  has 
soldered  on  the  caps,  pierce  the  can  with  a  small  awl,  set  them  in 
cold  water,  and  heat  gradually.  Let  them  boil  one  hour,  and  then 
solder  up  the  small  holes.  The  water  must  only  reach  the  top  of  the 
can  while  boiling.  "When  cool  examine  the  cans  ;  if  the  ends  are  not 
drawn  well  in,  the  can  is  imperfect ;  if  they  are,  they  will  generally 
prove  perfect,  though  not  always,  as  sometimes  the  leak  is  so  small, 
and  perhaps  stopped  by  sugar  for  the  time  being,  as  not  to  show  air 
until  the  fruit  is  soured,  which  is  shown  by  the  swelling  of  the  can, 
which  will  burst  unless  opened.    {See  Water  Bath  and  Testing  Cans.) 

To  Preserve  Pears  without  Sugar. — Prepare  and  exhaust  the 
air  from  the  fruit  in  the  same  manner  as  in  fresh  stewed  pears,  using 
a  half-pint  of  filtered  water  to  every  quart,  instead  of  syrup. 

Plain  Preserves  Hermetically  Sealed. — Cheap  preserves  can 
be  made  and  preserved  by  the  same  process  as  described.  To  every 
pound  of  pears,  peeled,  quartered,  and  cored,  take  a  half-pound  of 


PEARS    AND    QUINCES.  247 

sugar,  and  to  every  three  pounds  of  sugar  one  pint  of  water ;  this  will 
make  three  pints  of  syrup  ;  divide  it  equally  on  the  fruit,  allowing  a 
half-pint  of  syrup  to  every  pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  fruit  in  cans  hot ; 
put  the  cans  in  hoiling  water  as  soon  as  sealed,  and  let  them  remain 
one  half-hour ;  then  solder  the  small  holes,  and  take  out  of  the  water 
immediately.  Cans  must  he  marked  in  some  manner  before  sealing, 
or  mistakes  will  often  occur,  as  it  is  impossible  to  designate  them 
afterwards. 

Baked  Pears  for  Winter,  Hermetically  Sealed. — First  boil 
the  pears,  with  the  skin  and  part  of  the  stem  on,  until  tender ;  have 
ready  a  strong  syrup  of  maple-sugar  flavored  with  citric  acid.  To 
one  quart  of  syrup  add  as  much  salt  as  will  lie  on  a  five-cent  piece  ; 
put  the  pears  into  the  syrup,  let  them  bake  until  snrivelled  a  very 
little  ;  dip  the  syrup  over  them  often,  and  when  ready  can  them,  and 
exhaust  the  air.  The  syrup  should  be  equally  divided,  and  poured  in 
the  cans.  These  will  be  found  superior.  Bottles  may  be  used  instead 
of  cans ;  cork  and  wire  them  before  exhausting,  and  seal  hot. 

Quinces. — The  large  orange  quince  is  the  best  for  family  use. 
Let  them  hang  on  the  bushes  until  after  frost.  If  gathered  and  laid 
in  a  cool  place  they  may  sometimes  be  preserved  several  months,  and 
in  other  seasons  they  decay  soon.  Never  preserve  them  until  a  few 
show  signs  of  decay. 

To  Preserve  Quinces. — Boil  them  in  water  slightly  acidulated 
with  citric  acid ;  have  ready  a  syrup  prepared  with  one  pound  of 
sugar  to  one  of  fruit  dissolved  in  water  in  the  proportion  of  one  pint 
.to  four  pounds,  and  a  teaspoon  of  citric  acid.  Place  the  quinces  in 
the  syrup  when  boiled  perfectly  tender,  heat  them  to  boiling  heat,  fill 
the  bottles  while  the  fruit  and  bottles  are  both  hot,  cork  and 
seal  immediately.  They  may  be  preserved  whole,  in  quarters, 
or  in  rings.  They  will  ferment  badly  if  the  sealing  is  the  least 
imperfect.     Turn  the  bottles  upside  down  if  the  fruit  rises. 

To  Peeserve  Quinces  Hermetically  Sealed  in  Cans  or  Bottles. 
—Proceed  as  directed  for  pears,  except  they  must  be  peeled  and  cored. 
Quinces  are  pickled  and  brandied  the  same  as  pears.  They  may  be 
put  up  without  sugar  for  dinner  desserts.  In  our  opinion  this  is  their 
best  use.  Use  cans  or  bottles,  as  preferred.  If  in  bottles,  wire  the 
corks  before  placing  the  bottles  in  the  bath. 

Quinces  foe  Dinner  Dessert. — Quarter  the  fruit,  and  boil  or 


248 

steam  them  until  tender,  and  serve  with  rich  cream  and  loaf-sugar. 
They  are  also  baked  and  used  in  the  same  manner. 

Quince  Marmalade. — Boil  the  quinces,  with  the  peels  and  cores, 
in  as  little  water  as  will  cover  them.  Press  the  pulp  through  a  sieve, 
and  allow  one  and  a  fourth  pound  of  loaf-sugar  for  every  pound  of 
pulp ;  boil  gently,  stirring  constantly,  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  stiff 
mass,  after  which  pack  it  in  small  jars  and  cover  it  with  paper  wet 
with  the  white  of  an  egg.  If  of  proper  consistency  it  will  cut  like 
cheese. 

Quince  Jelly. — If  quinces  are  high,  a  jelly  may  be  made  of  the 
peels  and  cores;  but  if  the  fruit  is  plenty,  boil  the  whole  of  it. 
Cover  the  fruit  and  boil  until  tender ;  then  drain  all  the  juice  from 
the  fruit,  and  allow  a  pound  of  the  best  sugar  for  every  pint ;  boil  a  few 
moments,  and  put  it  in  moulds.  If  the  jelly  appears  cloudy,  strain  it 
through  a  flannel  bag,  after  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  before  it  boils  up. 
If  the  cores  and  peels  are  used  alone,  the  jelly  will  be  very  stringy. 

To  Dry  Quinces  oe  Peaes.— Peel,  and  cut  them  in  thin  slips ; 
string  and  dry  them  in  the  sun ;  soak  them  over  night,  and  stew  in 
the  same  water.      - 


CHAPTER    IV. 

PLUMS. 

HERMETICALLY   SEAL,   PRESERVE,   ETC. 

Eemarks. — Only  the  finest  are  fit  for  the  table  in  their  natural 
state,  and  even  these  should  be  served  as  a  third  or  fourth  course, 
and  eaten  with  moderation.  Among  the  most  popular  of  these  are 
the  green  and  yellow  gage,  Washington,  Coe's  golden  drop,  purple 
favorite,  Lombard,  etc.  Among  the  finest  flavored  for  preserves, 
jams,  jellies,  tarts,  etc.,  are  the  damsons.  The  winter  damson  is  the 
finest  of  all,  a  very  small  purple  plum,  with  small  pit,  fit  only  for 
preserving,  being  in  its  natural  state  very  astringent.  It  is  the  very 
latest  plum,  and  it  is  said  to  be  the  only  variety  Dot  troubled  with 
the  curculio. 

To  Preserve  "Winter  Damsons. — After  looking  over  the  fruit, 
and  throwing  out  all  poor-looking  plums,  wash  and  wipe  them  clean, 


plums.  249 

pierce  every  plum  twice  with  a  coarse  needle ;  weigh  the  fruit,  and 
allow  for  every  pound,  the  same  in  weight  of  sugar  of  the  best 
quality,  rolled  fine ;  begin  with  the  sugar,  and  put  alternate  layers  of 
it  and  fruit  in  an  enamelled  preserving  kettle.  Set  the  kettle  over 
a  boiler  of  hot  water,  cover  tight,  and  let  it  heat  gradually.  "When 
there  is  reason  to  think  the  sugar  is  dissolved  in  the  juice,  stir  up  the 
sugar  and  the  fruit  together,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  plums  any 
more  than  the  steaming  has  already  done ;  let  the  kettle  remain  over 
the  steam  covered  tightly,  until  the  whole  is  heated  through,  and  the 
fruit  completely  saturated  with  the  sugar.  Bottle  it  while  in  a  boil- 
ing state,  according  to  directions  given  before  in  other  preserves. 
Place  cotton  wadding  of  the  best  kind  soaked  in  brandy  on  the  top 
of  each  bottle,  which  should  be  pressed  down  so  as  to  admit  the 
syrup  to  rise  a  little  above  it,  but  no  fruit.  This  is  to  prevent  mould, 
should  any  form,  from  doing  injury  to  the  fruit.  Examine  daily; 
should  any  air  bubbles  form,  either  the  fruit  has  not  been  heated 
through,  and  put  up  "boiling,  or  not  sealed  tightly ;  in  either  case  it 
would  ferment.  Take  off  the  wax  from  the  corks,  place  the  bottles 
in  cold  water  on  wood  ;  if  placed  on  iron  they  would  be  apt  to  crack; 
heat  gradually  and  boil  slowly  a  half-hour  after  the  water  becomes 
boiling  hot ;  have  ready  new  corks,  and  seal  tightly.  If  much  sour, 
take  the  corks  from  the  bottles  before  putting  in  the  water,  or  they 
will  burst ;  if  any  foam  rises  while  heating,  put  the  fruit  in  the  pre- 
serving kettle,  and  boil  hard  a  half-hour ;  it  will  only  be  fit  for  tarts, 
and  most  certain  to  ferment  again  if  sealed  ever  so  well,  but  if  prop- 
erly done  at  first,  it  seldom  needs  heating  over.  This  preserve  is  not 
as  beautiful  as  some  others,  but  is  probably  the  very  best  flavored  of 
the  plum,  retaining  its  freshness,  while  it  remains  without  fermenta- 
tion for  years.  It  is  particularly  relished  by  invalids.  Should  the 
preserve  not  be  in  a  fit  state  for  bottling  the  day  commenced,  it  can 
be  left  in  the  kettle  over  night,  and  heated  over  steam  in  the  same 
manner  as  at  first. 

Plum  Jam. — Take  any  variety  of  plum  desired,  steam  them  in  an 
enamelled  kettle  until  heated  through  ;  strain  off  the  juice,  and  pass 
the  pulp  through  a  fine  sieve,  boil  one  hour,  stirring  constantly :  if 
it  burns  it  is  ruined ;  weigh,  before  boiling,  the  pulp  and  juice,  dis- 
solve the  same  weight  of  the  best  sugar  rolled  fine  in  the  juice  ;  when 
entirely  melted,  add  this  to  the  pulp,  beat  it  well  together,  and  let  it 
boil  one  minute  ;  have  the  moulds  ready,  which  must  not  be  glass ;  pour 
in  the  jam,  filling  the  moulds  quite  full,  and  set  them  in  a  slow  oven 
11* 


250  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

twenty-four  hours.    Wooden  moulds  will  do  lined  with  paper ;  when 
the  jam  is  used,  wet  the  paper  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  take  it  off. 

Plum  Paste. — Boil  tart  plums  in  their  own  juice  until  quite  tender, 
take  out  the  pits  and  pass  the  pulp  through  a  wire  sieve,  boil  gently, 
stirring  constantly  one  hour ;  stir  half  the  weight  of  the  pulp,  before 
boiling,  of  sugar  in  the  pulp,  and  boil  one  minute;  have  ready 
shallow  earthen  plates,  a  square  shape  to  be  preferred;  pour  the 
paste  in  this,  not  over  a  quarter  Of  an  inch  thick,  and  dry  slowly  in 
the  oven,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it.  When  dry  turn  it  out,  and  pack 
the  paste  away  carefully ;  these  are  used  to  cut  in  rings,  or  any  other 
form  for  ornament  to  cakes,  ices,  whips,  etc. 

Plum  Compote. — Prick  the  fruit  with  a  needle,  and  throw  them 
in  cold  hard  water,  let  them  lie  as  long  as  it  will  take  to  boil  a  pan  of 
water ;  into  this  they  must  be  thrown  as  soon  as  it  boils.  When  the 
fruit  rises  to  the  surface,  skim  it  out,  and  throw  it  again  in  cold  water. 
Prepare  a  syrup  and  boil  them  up  in  it,  set  it  to  cool,  and  boil  again 
and  again.  If  not  wanted  for  immediate  use,  put  it,  while  hot,  in 
bottles,  cork  and  seal  as  other  sweetmeats. 

Geeen  Gages,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No.  1. — Select  quite  ripe, 
not  soft  but  perfect  fruit,  prick  them  with  a  needle  on  opposite  sides, 
throw  them  in  hot,  not  boiling  water,  off  the  fire,  let  them  remain  in  the 
water  five  minutes ;  have  ready  cold  water,  skim  them  out,  and  throw 
them  in  it,  and  let  them  remain  until  cold ;  lay  them  on  a  hair  sieve 
to  drain,  pack  the  fruit  in  strong  bottles,  holding  about  one  quart, 
with  mouths  large  enough  to  let  the  fruit  in  without  bruising ;  leave 
a  space  between  the  fruit  and  cork,  of  two  inches.  Have  a  syrup  pre- 
pared in  the  following  manner :  To  one  pound  of  water,  take  two  of 
sugar,  dissolve  the  sugar  over  steam  until  clear,  use  only  the  best  sugar ; 
add  to  each  pound  of  water  a  piece  of  citric  acid  as  large  as  a  hazel- 
nut ;  pour  the  syrup  on  cold ;  wire  the  cork  well  down,  let  the  syrup 
cover  the  fruit  well,  leaving  nearly  two  inches  space  in  the  bottle ; 
place  them  in  the  water-bath  cold,  which  must  always  have  a  wooden 
bottom  for  the  bottles  to  stand  on ;  heat  gradually,  and  let  them  boil 
until  the  fruit  shows  signs  of  cracking,  or  (as  it  is  sometimes  the  case 
that  it  does  not  crack)  a  half-hour  is  long  enough  to  boilthem, 
counting  the  time  after  the  water  becomes  boiling  hot ;  seal  perfectly, 
and  set  them  in  a  cool,  dry,  and  dark  place,  not  forgetting  to  label 
them.  Examine  for  a  week  or  so,  to  see  if  all  is  right,  and  turn  them 
upside  down  three  times  each  week  for  a  month. 


PLUMS.  251 

Green  Gages,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No.  2. — Prick  sound  ripe 
fruit,  pack  it  in  jars  or  bottles  as  above,  without  scalding.  Make  a  light 
syrup  in  proportion  of  four  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  water ; 
pour  it  on  the  fruit  cold,  cork  and  wire  as  directed ;  boil  in  the  water- 
bath  three-fourths  of  an  hour  unless  the  fruit  cracks,  if  so,  less. 

Green  Gages,  Hermetically  Sealed,  No.  3. — Throw  gages  in 
boiling  water  until  the  skin  cracks  and  loosens ;  strip  off  the  skin,  pack 
in  jars,  and  proceed  as  above,  boiling  twenty-five  minutes,  unless  the 
fruit  appears  like  melting.  Make  the  syrup  with  five  pounds  of  best 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  water,  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid. 
Any  plum  can  be  prepared  in  this  manner,  only  observing,  that  the 
more  juicy  the  fruit,  the  stronger  the  syrup  should  be,  and  the 
larger,  the  longer  time  in  heating  through. 

Brandy  Gages. — Wash  and  wipe  dry  green  gages,  prick  them  on 
opposite  sides,  pack  in  bottles  or  jars  with  'large  enough  mouths  to 
let  the  fruit  in  without  pressing ;  pour  over  just  sufficient  good  white 
French  brandy  to  cover  them,  cork  tightly,  and  let  them  stand  two 
days;  should  the  fruit  absorb  the  liquor  so  as  to  leave  any  un- 
covered, pour  on  a  little  more  brandy,  but  no  more  than  is  necessary. 
Then  pour  off  the  liquor,  and  stir  gradually  into  every  pint,  a  pound 
of  sugar  ;'dissolve  it  well,  and  when  quite  clear,  fill  the  bottles  as  full  as 
possible  without  touching  the  cork ;  cork  tightly,  and  paste  over  the 
cork  a  paper  wet  with  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs ;  put  what  syrup  is 
left,  if  any,  in  a  bottle ;  cork,  and  seal  in  the  same  manner ;  in  a  few 
days  examine  the  bottles ;  if  the  fruit  has  absorbed  the  syrup  so  as  to 
leave  the  fruit  exposed,  fill  up  again,  and  seal  very  particularly  with  wax, 
so  as  to  be  able  to  turn  the  jars  up  if  necessary.    Don't  forget  the  labels. 

Brandy  Gages,  French  Method. — Pick  the  fruit  when  quite  hard, 
but  ripe,  and  pack  it  in  jars.  Take  white  French  brandy  ;  to  every 
quart  add  five  ounces  best  refined  sugar,  cork  and  seal  perfectly  tight, 
with  brittle  wax. 

Brandy  Gages,  No.  3. — Fill  the  jars  as  above  described,  prepare 
very  rich  syrup,  let  it  cool  to  blood-heat ;  mix  in  the  proportion  of 
one-third  syrup  to  two  of  brandy,  mix  thoroughly  ;  fill  the  bottles  as 
for  other  brandy  plums,  cork,  and  seal  perfectly.  If  any  syrup  is  left, 
bottle  and  cork  it  for  future  use.    If  the  skins  are  tough,  remove  them. 

Best  Brandy  Plums,  for  Family  Use. — "Weigh  eight  pounds  of 
the  best  loaf-sugar,  divide  it  in  two  equal  parts ;  put-  half  of  it  in  a 


252 


porcelain  preserving  kettle  with  one  quart  of  water  and  a  teaspoonfal 
of  citric  acid  ;  set  it  over  steam  until  the  sugar  melts,  then  let  it  hoil 
up  once,  take  off  the  scum,  and  set  the  kettle  from  the  fire ;  have 
ready  about  eight  quarts  of  plums,  (green  gages  are  the  finest  for  brandy 
fruit ;)  having  looked  them  over  carefully,  washed,  wiped,  and  pricked 
them,  lay  them  overnight  in  the  kettle,  being  careful  that  the  fruit  is 
wholly  covered  with  the  syrup ;  the  next  morning  set  the  kettle 
over  steam  until  the  syrup  is  nearly  boiling  hot ;  take  out  the  fruit, 
and  add  the  other  half  of  the  sugar,  and  another  teaspoonful  of  the 
acid ;  let  it  dissolve  gradually  over  steam,  and  take  off  all  the  scum 
that  rises.  "While  the  syrup  is  thickening,  have  the  plums  soaking  in 
just  enough  white  French  brandy  to  cover  them  ;  let  them  be  covered 
as  tightly  as  possible ;  a  bright  tin  pail  with  a  tight-fitting  cover,  is 
as  good  as  any  thing  for  this  purpose ;  when  the  syrup  is  clear,  set  it 
to  cool ;  when  it  has  become  cold  enough  to  prevent  the  evaporation 
of  the  brandy,  mix  with  it  three  quarts  and  one  pint  of  brandy  ;  the 
brandy  should  be  measured  before  it  is  put  on  the  fruit.  Mix  the 
brandy  and  syrup  thoroughly,  passing  it  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  to 
prevent  the  syrup  and  brandy  from  separating ;  fill  the  jars  or  bottles, 
which  have  a  mouth  large  enough  to  let  in  the  fruit  without  bruising ; 
fill  up  the  bottles  so  as  nearly  to  touch  the  cork ;  put  in  the  corks, 
and  let  them  stand  until  the  next  day ;  bottle  and  cork  tightly  the 
syrup  left ;  if  the  fruit  absorbs  the  syrup  so  as  to  uncover  the  fruit, 
fill  the  bottles  again ;  cork  and  seal  with  brittle  wax,  so  perfectly, 
that  the  bottles  will  not  leak  when  turned  upside  down ;  label  and 
set  them  away. 

To  Heemetically  Seal  and  Peeseeve  Egg  Plums. — Select  fruit 
quite  ripe,  but  not  soft ;  wash,  and  wipe  them  dry ;  leave  on  a  short 
piece  of  the  stem ;  prick  the  skin,  with  a  common-sized  needle,  in  many 
places.  Have  ready  water,  boiling  hot ;  take  the  kettle  from  the  fire  ; 
throw  in  the  fruit  in  the  proportion  of  four  quarts  of  fruit  to  eight  of 
water ;  be  careful  to  sink  the  plums,  as.  they  will  be  scalded  only  on 
one  side  if  floating,  and  when  they  crack  slip  off  the  skins ;  prepare 
the  day  before,  the  syrup  in  the  following  manner :  Take  the  weight 
of  the  fruit  in  the  best  loaf-sugar ;  and  divide  it  in  two  equal  parts ; 
dissolve  half  the  sugar  in  the  same  weight  of  water,  with  a  little 
citric  acid,  and  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises ;  when  quite  clear,  set 
it  off  to  cool ;  if  made  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  it  can  stand  in  the 
vessel  in  which  it  was  prepared  overnight  without  harm;  put  the 
fruit  in  the  syrup  over  steam  until  it  feels  quite  hot,  but  do  not  boil  it, 


plums.  253 

as  this  will  break  the  fruit ;  take  off  the  kettle,  and  let  them  become 
cold,  keeping  the  fruit  constantly  covered  with  syrup  ;  set  it  on  again, 
and  again,  in  the  same  manner  until  the  syrup  has  penetrated  the  fruit 
to  the  pit ;  then  take  it  out ;  and  after  it  has  been  well  drained,  pack  it 
in  a  jar,  with  a  mouth  large  enough  to  let  in  the  fruit  without  press 
ing ;  add  to  the  syrup  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  a  lump  of 
citric  acid  as  large  as  a  pea ;  to  every  two  pounds  of  sugar,  add  the 
pits  of  peaches  or  plums  blanched,  in  proportion  of  six  pits  to  every 
pound  of  sugar,  and  let  the  syrup  boil  slowly  five  minutes ;  take  it 
off,  and  skim  it  well ;  cool  a  little,  and  pass  it  through  a  fine  sieve 
without  pressing ;  fill  the  jars  with  the  syrup  nearly  full,  and  cover 
them  over  to  keep  out  insects ;  the  next  day  examine  the  bottles,  and 
if  the  fruit  is  not  well  covered  with  syrup,  add  more ;  leave  less  than 
two  inches  space,  if  the  bottle  is  just  large  enough  to  admit  the 
fruit,  and  less  if  larger ;  cork  and  wire  tightly ;  place  the  bottles  in 
the  water  bath  to  remain  after  the  water  boils  one  hour,  unless  the 
fruit  looks  like  breaking ;  when  this  happens,  take  out  the  bottles, 
and  seal  them  immediately.  Any  large  plum,  apricot,  or  nectarine, 
can  be  preserved  in  the  same  manner. 

French  Method  of  Preparing-  Nectarines  and  Apricots. — Take 
fruit  not  too  ripe,  make  a  small  slit  at  the  stem  end  and  push  out  the 
stone.  Simmer  in  water  until  about  half  done,  and  afterward  throw 
them  into  cold  water ;  when  they  have  cooled,  take  them  out,  and 
drain  them.  Put  the  fruit  into  the  preserving  pan,  with  sufficient 
syrup  to  cover  them  ;  let  them  boil  up  three  or  four  times,  and  skim 
well,  remove  the  fruit  from  the  fire,  and  pour  it  into  an  earthen  pan 
until  the  next  day.  Boil  it  in  this  manner  three  successive  days,  and 
they  will  be  finished.  Examine  the  syrup ;  if  too  thin,  add  a  little  sugar, 
uuless  there  is  enough  syrup  for  the  fruit ;  in  that  case,  boil  it  down 
until  of  the  right  consistency.     Put  the  fruit  up  hot,  and  seal  tightly. 

To  Preserve  the  Common  Blue  Plum. — After  weighing  the  fruit, 
throw  it  a  little  at  a  time,  in  boiling  water  to  loosen  the  skin,  slip  it 
off;  weigh  the  same  amount  of  sugar,  granulated  is  the  best,  and  pack 
the  fruit  in  layers  in  a  preserving  kettle,  as  directed  in  preserving 
winter  damsons.  They  will  not  need  quite  as  much  cooking,  on 
account  of  the  skin  being  joff  the  fruit ;  put  them  up  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  damsons.  Horse,  or  any  other  coarse  plum,  can  be 
preserved  in  the  same  way. 

Plum  Syrup  and  Jelly. — Heat  damson  plums  over  steam,  until 


254  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

scalded  through ;  drain  off  the  juice,  add  one  and  a  half  pound  of 
sugar  to  every  pound  of  juice ;  heat  the  juice  to  boiling  heat,  and  stir 
in  the  sugar ;  let  it  boil  a  moment  only.  If  it  does  not  become  solid, 
heat  it  over,  and  as  soon  as  boiling  hot  pour  it  into  bottles  prepared  in 
boiling  water  as  before  described,  and  seal  them  up  while  hot.  "When 
wanted  for  jelly,  if  not  solid,  dissolve  in  warm  water,  either  isinglass 
or  gelatine,  in  the  proportion  of  four  ounces  to  a  pint  of  water,  and 
strain  it  through  a  fine  sieve ;  this  will  make  four  quarts  of  jelly,  if  dis- 
solved in  that  quantity  of  the  bottled  syrup,  firm,  and  hard ;  but  it  will 
melt  in  a  warm  room,  or  in  summer  heat.  It  makes  nice  syrup  for 
ices,  puddings,  etc.,  and  often  jellies  firm. 

Plum  Ice. — Prepare  the  juice  of  the  damson  plum  as  described, 
allowing  one  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  When  wanted, 
add  as  much  water  as  syrup ;  blanch  and  pound  to  a  paste  a  few 
kernels  of  the  fruit ;  mix  them  well  through,  and  freeze  smoothly. 
Apricot  ice,  is  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Pickled  Plums,  Spiced,  No.  1. — Wash  and  wipe  dry  perfect 
plums,  leave  a  short  piece  of  the  stem  on  the  fruit.  Prick  them  pretty 
thoroughly  with  a  needle,  about  number  six.  Have  ready  prepared 
vinegar  very  strong,  heated  over  steam  to  nearly  boiling  heat,  in 
which  is  put  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace,  and  green  ginger  root  if  to  be 
had,  if  not  dry,  in  the  following  proportions :  one  quart  of  vinegar,  a 
teaspoonful  of  mace,  half  as  much  cloves,  a  table-spoonful  of  cinna- 
mon broken  about  as  large  as  cloves,  and  as  much  ginger  scraped  free 
from  the  bark  if  green,  half  as  much  if  dry.  Put  a  part  of  the  fruit 
in  the  vinegar;  let  it  remain  a  few  moments,  not  long  enough  to 
crack  them ;  take  them  out,  and  pack  in  jars ;  when  all  have  been 
scalded,  tie  over  the  mouths  of  the  bottles  thin  cloth,  and  turn  them 
up  to  drain ;  measure  the  juice  and  vinegar,  allowing  three  pounds  of 
sugar  to  every  quart ;  mix  all  together,  and  when  the  sugar  is  entirely 
dissolved,  pour  the  syrup  over  the  plums ;  let  them  stand  until  the 
next  day ;  then  cork  and  wire  them,  and  put  the  bottles  in  the  water 
bath.  If  small  plums,  let  them  boil  ten  minutes,  and  seal  up.  If  egg, 
or  other  large  plums,  a  half  hour.  To  be  served  for  tea  or  at  supper, 
and  parties,  in  pickle  shells. 

Sour  Pickled  Plums,  No.  2. — Pour  over  pricked  plums  hot  spiced 
vinegar,  four  different  times,  on  successive  days,  and  seal  tightly.  If 
the  vinegar  loses  its  strength,  take  fresh ;  the  fruit  should  be  very 
hard ;  serve  with  meats. 


plums.  255 

Pickled  Plums,  No.  3. — Prepare  the  plums  as  for  No.  1.  Take 
one  quart  of  ten  per  cent,  vinegar ;  dry  ginger  root  broken  up ; 
about  two  table-spoonfuls  green,  one  half  a  teaspoon  of  cloves  broken 
twice,  a  teaspoon  of  broken  mace,  and  two  table-spoons  broken  cinna- 
mon. Heat  the  vinegar,  and  pour  it  on  the  spices  hot ;  cover  tight, 
and  let  it  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  strain  it  through  a  jelly 
bag,  and  add  two  pounds  loaf  sugar ;  let  it  gently  boil  and  remove  the 
scum.  Take  off  the  syrup,  and  when  nearly  cool,  put  the  plums  in  it. 
Let  it  stand  until  the  next  day.  Then  remove  the  plums  to  the  bottles ; 
strain  the  syrup,  and  cover  the  plums  with  it.  Cork,  and  wire  the 
bottles  ;  set  them  in  cold  water,  and  heat  gently.  "When  the  water 
has  boiled  fifteen  minutes,  take  them  from  the  bath  and  seal  tightly ; 
serve  for  tea  and  parties. 

Hermetically-sealed  Natural  Preserved  Plums. — Prepare  the 
fruit  as  for  other  preserves.  Pack  them  in  bottles  ;  allow  a  half  pound 
of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit.  To  every  three  pounds  of  sugar,  take  one 
pint  of  water,  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid,  dissolved  in  the 
water ;  stir  gradually  the  sugar  into  the  water,  which  must  be  melted 
over  steam  ;  take  off  all  the  scum ;  when  clear,  pour  it  over  the  fruit, 
which  must  be  equally  divided  in  the  jars,  so  as  to  portion  the  syrup 
alike  ;  have  ready  blanched  kernels  of  plums  or  peaches ;  put  in  each 
bottle  a  dozen,  and  let  them  stand  until  the  next  day.  If  the  fruit 
absorbs  the  syrup,  so  as  to  uncover  the  plums,  add  more.  Leave  less 
than  two  inches  space.  Cork,  wire,  and  place  in  the  water  bath  ;  let 
them  remain  one  hour  at  a  temperature  of  180°,  unless  the  fruit  ap- 
pears like  cracking,  then  seal  tightly,  etc.,  as  directed  for  other  fruits. 

Nectarines  and  Apricots  to  Pickle. — Proceed  exactly  as  in 
pickled  peaches.     Keep  in  a  cool  place,  and  examine  frequently. 

Hermetically-sealed  Plum  Pie  Fruit  in  Bottles. — Select  quite 
hard  fruit,  (gages  are  the  finest  for  this  purpose.)  Fill  the  bottles 
(which  should  be  the  kind  designated  Pie  Fruits)  to  within  two  inches 
of  the  cork,  shaking  them  down,  so  as  to  get  in  as  many  as  possible. 
Fill  up,  with  filtered  rain-water,  to  within  one  and  a  half  inch  of  the 
cork ;  wire  the  bottles  well,  and  put  them  in  the  water  bath.  Let 
them  remain  a  half  hour  at  a  temperature  of  180°,  unless  the  fruit 
shows  signs  of  cracking.  To  ascertain  this,  examine  those  in  the 
hottest  place  often,  after  the  heat  has  been  up  to  180°  ten  minutes. 
The  riper  the  fruit,  the  sooner  it  will  heat  through,  which  is  all 
that  is  wanted.    Seal  very  carefully.    Examine  often ;  for  although 


250 

fruit,  put  up  in  this  way,  cannot  be  recovered  if  imperfect,  the  bot- 
tles may  be  saved,  and  mischief  to  other  fruits  prevented,  by  timely 
opening,  as  they  will  certainly  burst,  if  not  perfect.  See  that  the  fruit 
is  under  the  water,  and  turn  them  often.  It  often  moulds  by  the  ac- 
tion of  light,  the  reason  of  which  is  unaccounted  for  by  chemists. 
{See  Mould,  in  another  part  of  this  book.) 

Hermetically-sealed  Plum  Pie  Fruit  in  Tin  Cans. — Fill  each 
can  full  without  shaking  much ;  put  as  much  soda  in  a  quart  can,  as 
will  lay  on  a  sixpence ;  add  a  half  pint  of  filtered  rain  water.  Solder 
on  the  cap,  pierce  each  cap  with  a  common  awl ;  place  the  cans  in 
the  water  bath  ;  heat  gradually  ;  after  the  water  reaches  the  heat  of 
180°,  (which  must  not  cover  the  cans,)  let  them  remain  from  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes,  after  which  time  the  fruit  will  be  ready  to  close ; 
drop  upon  the  aperture  solder,  and  take  them  from  the  bath.  Ex' 
amine  the  cans  as  directed  for  other  can  fruit.     {See  Testing  Cans.) 

Hermetically-sealed  Table  Plums. — These  are  put  up  as  above, 
without  soda,  and  the  addition  of  a  pint  tumbler  full  of  granulated 
loaf-sugar.     {See  Testing  Cans.) 

Heemeticallt-sealed  Natural  Plum  Preserves  in  Cans. — Allow 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  made  into  a  light 
syrup,  divide  it  equally,  cook  the  fruit  in  the  cans  a  half  hour  at 
180°,  and  seal  up  as  directed. 

Plain  Plum  Jam  can  also  be  put  up  in  cans  and  treated  as  de- 
scribed. 

Dried  Plums  without  Sugar. — Plums  can  be  dried  in  the  same 
manner  as  peaches,  using  the  sweet,  and  less  juicy  varieties,  and  are 
cooked  in  the  same  manner. 

Plum  Leather. — Mash  green  gages,  that  are  very  ripe,  quite  fine  ; 
remove  the  pits,  and  dry  on  plates  in  the  oven.  Cook  as  peach 
leather,  adding  sugar. 

Plums  Dried  with  Sugar. — Cut  open  sweet  plums,  not  removing 
the  pits ;  scatter  over  them  sugar ;  spread  the  fruit  on  plates,  and  set 
it  in  a  slow  oven.  "When  the  sugar  is  taken  up  by  the  fruit,  add  more, 
and  continue  to  do  this,  while  there  is  sufficient  moisture  to  take  up  the 
sugar.  Pack  in  jars,  with  paper  pasted  over  them,  and  place  them  above 
the  reach  of  mice ;  they  will  need  no  washing.  Soak  over  night,  and  heat 
through  in  the  same  water.   If  not  sweet  enough  to  suit,  add  more  sugar. 


plums.  257 

Plum  Tarts. — Prepare  puff  paste,  as  directed  for  tarts ;  bake  the 
paste,  and  fill  the  cavity  with  jam  or  jelly  ;  fruit  should  never  stand  in 
the  paste ;  the  tarts  should  be  filled  just  before  using.  Shake  over 
them  powdered  loaf-sugar,  or  ice  them.  {See  Puff-paste  and 
Icing.) 

Apricot  Biscuits,  French. — Reduce  apricots  to  a  paste ;  stir  into 
it  its  weight  in  sugar ;  cook  an  hour,  stirring  constantly.  Drop  on 
paper,  or  in  paper  moulds,  and  dry  in  the  oven ;  pack  away  in  tight 
tin  boxes,  for  winter  use.  Plums,  being  more  juicy,  require  more 
6ugar,  probably  one-third  more. 


CHAPTER   V. 

CHEEEIES. 
HERMETICALLY   SEAL,   PRESERVE,   ETC. 

History  and  Varieties. — The  cherry  is  a  native  of  the  north  tem- 
perate zones,  and  has  been  cultivated  since  the  year  1500.  There  are 
two  or  three  hundred  varieties.  These  are  divided  into  classes.  First, 
the  heart-  shaped  fruit ;  these  are  the  best  for  the  dessert  in  their 
natural  state ;  second,  Bigarreau,  with  firmer  flesh  than  the  former, 
and,  of  course,  better  for  brandy  fruit,  pickles,  fancy  preserves,  and 
candying.  Third,  Duke,  more  acid,  make  better  preserves,  pies,  and 
can  fruits.  Fourth,  Morellos,  more  acid  still ;  one  of  the  finest  of  the 
last,  is  Pulm-stone  Morello.  This  fruit,  more  particularly  the  Duke 
and  Morello,  are  not  considered  very  wholesome.  The  fact,  that  it  is 
generally  necessary  to  gather  the  fruit  before  fully  ripe,  to  save  it  from 
the  depredation  of  birds,  is  probably  the  great  reason  why  the  eating 
of  cherries  often  produces  such  terrible  results.  It  is  also  well  known 
that  they  contain  the  essentials  of  Hydrocyanic  or  Prussic  acid,  as 
well  as  Hydruret  of  Benzule,  a  poisonous  oil,  to  which  the  blos- 
som, both  of  peach  and  cherry,  owe  their  peculiar  odor.  "Whether 
this  has  a  deleterious  effect  on  the  fruit  is  not  certainly  known ;  it  is, 
however,  the  firm  opinion  of  many,  that  this  is  the  case.  Let  it  bfe 
so  or  not,  it  certainly  is  safe  to  use  the  fruit  only  in  moderation.  Ex- 
perience shows,  that  they  cannot  be  eaten  by  all,  with  impunity,  in 
the  crude  state ;  but,  when  cooked  and  sugared,  may  be  used  as  a 
relish,  with  comparative  safety. 


258 

Fancy  Preserves.— Pit  the  fruit,  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
cherries ;  weigh  them ;  take  as  many  pounds  of  the  best  loaf-sugar  as 
there  is  fruit ;  put  it  in  an  enamelled  preserving  kettle  ;  to  every  six 
pounds  of  loaf-sugar  take  one  quart  of  water,  and  as  much  cream  of 
tartar  as  will  fill  a  teaspoon,  finely  pulverized :  put  the  whole  over  a 
slow,  clear  fire,  or  what  is  better,  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  until  the 
sugar  is  entirely  dissolved,  so  as  to  lose  all  the  grain ;  let  it  boil  up 
once,  and  skim  it  well ;  then  lay  the  fruit  in  the  syrup  over  night, 
being  careful  to  have  the  cherries  entirely  covered  with  the  syrup ; 
in  the  morning,  place  the  kettle  containing  the  cherries  and  syrup 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  keeping  the  fruit  constantly  covered 
with  syrup  until  nearly  boiling  hot ;  put  it  then  on  a  slow  clear  fire 
until  it  boils  up  once,  take  it  off  immediately,  and  set  the  kettle  away 
until  the  next  day,  when  the  same  process  must  be  gone  over  again ; 
the  third  day  after  the  fruit  boils  up,  skim  out,  and  drain  it  on  a 
hair  sieve ;  when  well  drained  put  the  whole  of  the  syrup  on  the  fire, 
boil  and  skim  it,  until  there  remains  just  about  enough  to  cover  the 
fruit ;  while  boiling  the  syrup,  select  the  fruit,  leaving  out  smalLbits, 
only  using  round  looking  fruit  not  broken ;  put  it  into  the  boiling 
syrup,  set  it  over  boiling  water  while  the  fruit  heats  through  ;  when 
you  are  sure  this  is  the  case,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  bottle  in  the 
same  manner  as  before  directed ;  seal  tightly,  etc.  As  white  cherries 
do  not  have  much  flavor,  they  are  used  as  fancy  preserves ;  any  other 
variety  of  cherries  can  be  preserved  in  this  manner  if  desired. 

To  Preserve  Black  Hawk:,  or  any,  other  large  Black 
Cherry. — Pit  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the  fruit;  weigh  the 
cherries,  allowing  for  each  pound  of  fruit  the  same  weight  of  num- 
ber one  granulated  loaf-sugar;  scatter  a  little  on  the  bottom  of 
an  enamelled  preserving  kettle,  then  a  few  cherries,  until  the  kettle 
is  filled,  or  the  fruit  and  sugar,  in  alternate  layers,  is  all  in ;  put 
the  kettle  over  a  boiler  of  hot  water,  and  keep  it  there  until  the 
sugar  is  all  dissolved,  and  the  fruit  heated  through;  stir  it  up 
carefully  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  until 
it  boils  up ;  let  it  simmer  three  minutes  slowly,  keeping  the  fruit 
constantly  under  the  syrup ;  then  set  it  where  it  will  keep  boiling 
Mbt,  and  bottle  it.  Place  cotton  wadding  saturated  with  brandy  on 
each  bottle,  just  below  the  syrup,  that  mould,  if  any  forms,  will  adhere 
to  it ;  seal,  etc.,  as  directed  before.  If  there  is  too  large  a  proportion 
of  syrup,  save  a  bottle  or  two  out,  which  must  be  put  up  hot,  with 


CHERRIKS.  259 

the  same  precautions,  as  preserves ;  it  is  a  nice  sauce  for  cherry  pud- 
dings, and  also  makes  a  beautiful  ice  or  cream  for  parties,  etc. 

Duke  and  Moeello  Cheeries  to  Preserve. — Follow  the  direc- 
tions given  for  preserving  black  cherries,  adding  an  extra  pound  of 
sugar  for  every  eight  of  fruit.  Particular  care  must  be  used  in  boil- 
ing ;  remember,  three  minutes  on  the  fire  is  all  they  require  after  being 
heated  over  steam  ;  if  boiled  too  long,  they  will  lose  their  color.  The 
Duke  and  Morellos  make  altogether  the  finest  flavored  preserve. 

Hermetically  Sealed  Natural  Preserves,  No.  1. — Make  a 
syrup  with  six  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  soft  water,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  citric  acid ;  be  careful  not  to  burn  in  melting  the  sugar 
(see  Syrups)  ;  pit  the  fruit  carefully,  lay  it  a  half-hour  on  a  hair  sieve 
to  drain ;  after  which  fill  strong  quart  bottles  two-thirds  full  of  the 
fruit ;  as  it  naturally  falls  in  without  shaking  down,  pour  over  it 
the  syrup  while  hot,  until  it  reaches  to  within  four  and  a  half  inches 
of  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  ;  prepare  the  best  of  corks  by  soaking  in 
hot  water ;  drive  them  one  inch  and  a  half  into  the  bottle,  after  the 
syrup  is  cool,  and  wire  them  well  down ;  place  the  bottles  in  the 
bath  filled  as  far  as  the  syrup  reaches  with  cold  water ;  turn  on  the 
steam,  and  let  them  remain  a  half-hour,  after  the  water  reaches  180  ° ; 
seal  immediately,  etc.,  as  directed  for  other  bottles ;  keep  a  good  look- 
out for  them,  for  a  week  or  two ;  should  any  sign  of  fermentation 
appear,  take  off  the  wax  and  heat  over ;  if  neglected  until  they  really 
work,  there  is  no  such  thing  as  saving  them  ;  they  will  burst  the  bot- 
tles ;  in  this  case  use  them  for  puddings  or  pies,  immediately.  Measure 
what  juice  strained  from  this  fruit  through  the  sieve,  which  should 
have  been  set  over  an  earthen  dish,  and  add  to  every  pint  a  pound  of 
sugar ;  put  it  in  a  preserving  kettle,  let  it  become  boiling  hot,  try  it, 
if  it  jellies  put  it  up  in  moulds — but  this  seldom  happens ;  if  not,  skim 
and  bottle  it  hot,  sealing  with  care.  Jelly  can  be  made  when  wanted, 
by  using  gelatine  or  isinglass  (see  Gelatine),  or  the  syrup  can  be  used 
to  flavor  creams  and  sauces,  or  made  into  ices.     (See  Cherry,  Ice.) 

Hermetically  Sealed  Natural  Preserves,  No.  2. — Pick  over  the 
fruit  carefully,  see  that  no  imperfect  fruit  is  used;  put  it  in  bee- 
tles ;  cork  and  set  the  bottles  in  the  water  bath  until  the  fruit  shows 
signs  of  cracking ;  have  ready  a  rich  syrup  hot ;  pour  it  on  the  fruit 
while  boiling,  and  while  the  fruit  itself  is  in  the  water  bath,  or  just 
taken  out;  put  the  cork  in  as  well  as  it  can  be,  and  let  them  boil 


260 

fifteen  minutes,  then  cork  and  seal  tightly.  If  the  stems  are  removed, 
it  must  be  done  so  as  not  to  break  the  fruit  and  let  out  the  juice  ;  it 
is  better  to  clip  them  with  the  scissors,  and  leave  a  small  part  of  the 
stem  on  the  cherry. 

Be andy  Cherries,  No.  1. — The  white  cherries  make  the  finest  look- 
ing brandy  fruit.  Select  the  fruit  carefully  ;  clip  off  each  stem  so  as 
to  leave  a  little  point  on  the  fruit ;  pack  the  fruit  in  the  bottles  de- 
signed for  them,  and  cover  with  white  French  brandy ;  cork  tightly,  and 
paste  over  the  corks  white  paper  wet  with  white  of  eggs ;  let  them 
4B  remain  forty-eight  hours,  or  longer  if  convenient ;  then  pour  off  the 
brandy,  and  mix  it  with  the  same  quantity  of  very  rich  syrup  free 
from  grain,  pass  it  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  and  pour  enough  on  the 
fruit  to  cover  it  well ;  cork  and  let  it  remain  overnight ;  the  next 
day  examine  the  bottles,  and  fill  up  with  the  syrup,  just  as  full  as 
possible  without  touching  the  cork ;  seal  tightly  with  wax,  so  as  to 
be  able  to  turn  the  bottles  cork  end  down,  should  the  syrup  be  again 
absorbed  by  the  fruit. 

Brandt  Cherries,  No.  2. — Prepare  the  fruit  as  above,  pack  it  as 
closely  as  possible,  without  shaking  down,  in  quart  bottles ;  place  them 
in  the  water  bath  until  the  fruit  shows  signs  of  cracking ;  then  remove 
them,  take  out  the  cork,  and  tie  a  thin  cloth  over  the  mouth  of  the 
bottle,  and  turn  them  up  in  a  clean  dish  ;  and  let  all  the  juice  drain  off. 
Measure  the  juice ;  to  every  pint  take  three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  melt 
it  together  over  boiling  water ;  as  soon  as  clear  take  it  off;  if  it  looks 
like  graining,  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  citric  acid  in  a  very  little  water, 
and  add  to  the  syrup ;  heat  it  again,  and  if  any  impurities  arise, 
skim  it ;  after  which  let  it  cool  until  about  blood  heat ;  add  to  the 
syrup  three  pints  of  white  French  brandy ;  beat  it  up  well  and  pass 
it  through  a  fine  sieve ;  fill  the  bottles  so  as  not  to  touch  the  cork, 
and  seal  immediately.  Should  any  syrup  be  left,  bottle  it,  and  seal 
tightly  for  future  use. 

Picexed  Cherries,  No.  1. — White  cherries  look  the  best  pickled. 
Prepare  the.  fruit  as  for  brandy  cherries,  leaving  the  stems  a  trifle 
longer.  Take  two  quarts  of  very  sharp  vinegar,  free  from  un- 
pleasant flavor,  six  pounds  of  the  best  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves  pounded,  not  ground,  a  table-spoonful  of  mace,  two  of  cinna- 
mon, and  one  of  ginger-root  pounded.  Have  prepared  ten  pounds  of 
the  cherries.  Pack  the  fruit  equally  in  quart  bottles,  cork  and  place 
them  in  the  water  bath ;  let  them  boil  twenty  minutes ;   have  the 


CHERRIES.  261 

syrup  all  ready,  the  sugar  melted,  and  all  the  spices  strained  out  by 
passing  it  through  a  sieve ;  put  in  each  bottle  six  cloves,  three  or 
four  pieces  of  mace,  and  the  same  of  cinnamon.  While  the  fruit  is 
boiling  hot  pour  enough  syrup,  also  boiling,  into  each  bottle  to  cover 
the  fruit,  and  cork  and  seal  immediately.  As  these  are  apt  to  mould, 
it  is  well  to  put  the  cotton  wadding  in  as  before  directed,  having  first 
dipped  it  in  hot  syrup,  or  put  it  on  the  fruit,  and  pour  the  syrup 
through  it,  being  careful  to  prevent  its  being  carried  too  far  down. 

Pickled  Cherries,  No.  2. — Prepare  the  fruit  as  before  directed. 
To  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  and  spices  to  the  taste,  take  four  pounds  of 
sugar,  weigh  eight  pounds  of  fruit,  and  divide  it  equally  in  bottles ; 
after  the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved  strain  it  on  the  cherries ;  if  it  is 
not  sufficiently  seasoned,  let  the  spices  remain  in  the  syrup ;  cork 
and  wire  well,  and  place  the  bottles  in  the  water  bath,  let  them  boil 
fifteen  minutes,  or  until  they  look  like  cracking,  when  seal. 

Pickxed  Cherries,  No.  3. — Prepare  the  fruit,  put  them  in  jars, 
and  fill  with  the  strongest  vinegar ;  let  them  remain  in  this,  corked 
tightly,  one  month,  or  longer,  as  convenient.  Then  prepare  a  spiced 
syrup,  take  them  from  the  vinegar,  and  put  them  in  the  syrup.  Seal 
tightly. 

Pickled  Cherries,  No.  4. — Leave  the  steins  on,  just  as  the  fruit 
grows,  in  clusters  or  single ;  put  them  in  the  strongest  vinegar,  let 
them  remain  for  one  month,  then  examine ;  if  any  mould  appears,  the 
vinegar  is  too  weak ;  change  it,  and  at  this  time  add  spices,  and  a 
couple  of  spoonfuls  of  sugar  to  each  bottle ;  cork  and  seal.  These  make 
a  beautiful  garnish.  Cherries  can  also  be  pickled  in  vinegar  alone  if 
desired.  Proceed  as  follows :  Leave  the  fruit  in  clusters,  place  them 
in  an  enamelled  preserving-kettle  ;  cover  with  strong  vinegar ;  let 
them  heat  slowly,  until  nearly  boiling  hot,  over  hot  water ;  allow 
them  to  remain  in  this  vinegar  until  cold,  after  which  pour  over  them 
some  eight  per  cent,  vinegar,  and  cover  closely.  Spices  can  be  added 
if  desired. 

Hermetically  Sealed  in  Glass  eor  Pies. — Eemove  the  stems, 
and  carefully  select  any  acid  cherry  that  makes  a  good  pie  in  its 
season ;  fill  quart  bottles  within  one  and  a  half  inch  of  the  cork 
(not  one  and  a  half  inch  from  the  mouth  of  the  bottle,  but  from  the 
inside  of  the  cork) ;  cover  the  fruit  with  filtered  rain-water,  leaving 
one  and  a  half  inch  space  for  air;    cork  and  wire  tightly,  after 


262         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

which  place  the  bottles  in  cold  water,  which  should  reach  the  top  of 
the  fruit.  Let  them  remain  in  the  bath  twenty  minutes  after  the 
water  reaches  the  heat  of  180°.  Test  the  water  frequently  to  know 
when  it  has  obtained  the  desired  heat.  If  in  a  kettle  instead  of  a 
bath,  remove  them  as  soon  as  the  water  is  boiling  hot.  If  heated  on 
the  stove  instead  of  steam,  let  the  fire  be  very  low,  so  as  to  increase 
the  heat  slowly,  or  the  fruit  will  not  be  heated  evenly.  Seal  the 
bottles  carefully,  and  shake  them  gently  every  day  for  two  months  to 
prevent  mould.  Or,  lay  them  on  their  sides,  and  roll  them  each  day. 
If  sealed  properly,  they  cannot  fail  to  make  as  good  pies  in  winter  as 
fresh  cherries.  Use  the  filtered  water  with  fruit  when  making  the 
pies,  they  will  be  none  too  juicy.  The  fruit  must  be  put  up  the  day  it 
is  gathered,  and  should  be  hardly  ripe ;  at  least,  let  it  not  have  been  in 
its  prime  long  enough  to  be  what  is  called  dead  ripe,  which  is  in  fact 
the  commencement  of  decay ;  no  fruit  arriving  to  that  state  should  be 
put  up  to  be  used  as  fresh  fruit.  If  preferred  to  pit  the  cherries, 
crack  a  handful  of  pits  for  each  bottle,  using  the  meats  only,  or  boil  a 
quantity  of  the  cracked  pits,  shells  and  all,  in  the  filtered  rain-water 
that  is  to  be  used,  until  the  flavor  of  the  kernel  is  extracted.  So  much 
of  the  peculiar  flavor  of  the  cherry  lies  in  the  pit,  that  unless  this  is 
in  some  way  preserved,  the  fruit  is  almost  worthless  for  pies,  or  rather 
no  better  than  dried  fruits.     Use  a  thermometer  to  test  the  water. 

Cherries  Hermetically  Sealed  in  Cans  for  Pies. — Fill  the  cans 
within  one  inch  of  the  top  with  acid  cherries ;  add  sufficient  filtered 
rain-water  to  cover  the  fruit,  and  solder  on  the  caps.  Place  the  cans  in 
a  bath  of  cold  water ;  if  over  the  fire  heat  slowly  as  possible.  "When 
the  water  reaches  140°,  pierce  the  cans,  and  let  them  remain  half  an 
hour  after  the  heat  is  increased  to  170°  ;  or  if  over  the  fire  only,  until 
the  water  is  boiling  hot ;  seal  with  solder  the  small  hole  in  the  can  be- 
fore removing  them  from  the  bath.  Examine  the  next  morning,  or 
as  soon  as  cold ;  if  perfect  they  will  be  drawn  in  at  the  ends.  (If  pit- 
ted add  the  kernels.) 

Fresh  Table  Cheeeies  Heemetically  Sealed. — Proceed  as  above, 
substituting  syrup  in  place  of  water ;  if  pitted,  add  the  cracked  ker- 
nels. Acid  cherries  only  are  fit  for  this  receipt.  The  choice  sweet 
cherry  will  be  found  tough  and  tasteless  after  being  heated. 

Deled  Cheeeies,  No  1. — The  best  manner  of  drying  cherries  is  to 
pit  and  stew  them  gently  with  a  little  sugar,  after  which  spread  them 
on  tins,  and  dry  gently  in  the  oven.    "While  drying  boil  down  the 


CHERRIES.  263 

eyrup,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  each  day,  a  little  at  a  time.    "WTien 
dry  pack  in  jars,  and  paste  a  paper  over  the  top. 

Dried  Cherries,  Eo.  2. — Pit  the  fruit,  spread  it  thin  on  earthen 
dishes,  scatter  sugar  over  it,  and  dry  in  the  oven ;  pack  as  ahove. 
Dried  without  sugar  they  hardly  pay  for  the  trouble. 

To  Cook;  Dried  Cherries. — If  dried  in  the  oven,  and  put  imme- 
diately away,  they  will  need  no  washing.  Soak  overnight  in  suffi- 
cient water  to  cover  them ;  those  that  have  been  stewed  will  only 
need  to  be  made  boiling  hot.  If  not  before  cooked,  stew  ten  minutes, 
add  the  sugar  needed  while  heating.  Serve  cold.  Some  use  them  in 
place  of  raisins  in  mince  pies. 

Fresh  Cherry  Pies. — The  fruit  should  be  dead  ripe  for  pies ;  they 
will  take  much  less  sugar  and  make  richer  pies  than  if  barely  ripe. 
Cover  the  plate,  which  should  be  deep,  with  a  plain  paste.  If  the 
cherries  are  pitted  bake  the  paste  without  crisping  before  putting  in 
the  fruit.  Mix  the  sugar  with  the  fruit,  remembering  the  cherry  is 
very  acid ;  spread  the  fruit  evenly  on  the  paste,  add  a  piece  of  butter 
as  large  as  the  bowl  of  a  dessert-spoon,  cut  in  small  bits,  dredge  with 
flour,  cover  with  paste,  and  bake  until  heated  through.  A  few  pits 
will  improve  it.  A  perfect  cherry  pie  is  rich,  juicy,  and  sufficiently 
sweet  without  tasting  of  the  sugar  or  butter.  On  this  account  use 
none  but  good  granulated  loaf-sugar  and  sweet  butter. 

Cherry  Pies  made  of  the  Sealed  Fruit  for  winter  use  require 
less  sugar  than  fresh  cherries.  Use  the  water  in  the  fruit,  which 
should  be  thickened  with  flour  and  enriched  with  more  butter  than 
fresh  cherries.  The  bottom  crust  should  also  be  baked  before  adding 
the  fruit. 

Cherry  puddings  will  be  found  in  another  part  of  this  work. 


CHAPTER    VI. 

SMALL  FRUITS. 
HERMETICALLY  SEAL,  PRESERVE,  ETC. 

Barberries,  Best  Method  of  Preserving. — Boil  them  in  a  jar 
without  water,  by  placing  the  jar  in  boiling  water  for  two  hours,  or 
until  they  are  heated  through.    A  small  jar  would  take  much  less  time 


264 

than  a  large  one ;  when  quite  hot  remove  them  to  a  hair  sieve,  place 
the  sieve  over  an  earthen  dish,  and  as  soon  as  cold  press  the  pulp 
through  the  sieve,  leaving  the  seeds  and  skin  behind ;  weigh  the  pulp 
and  allow  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Boil  the  pulp  without  the  sugar 
fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  try  the  jelly  as 
soon  as  the  sugar  dissolves,  and  constantly  after  until  it  shows  signs 
of  setting.  "When  a  drop  forms  readily  on  the  spoon,  put  the  jelly 
or  jam  in  small  jars  until  cold,  then  cover  with  a  tissue  paper  dipped 
in  brandy  fitted  to  the  jar,  and  pressed  to  the  jam ;  cover  the  top 
with  paper  dipped  in  the  white  of  egg,  beaten  stiff,  and  pasted  with 
the  egg  to  the  jar ;  mark  the  preserve  with  the  name  and  year,  and 
set  it  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  Jellies  are  ruined  by  long  boiling ;  they 
should  be  dished  as  soon  as  set. 

Ctteeant  Jam,  No.  1. — Pick  currants  clean  from  the  stem,  weigh 
them  and  allow  equal  weight  of  sugar ;  mash  the  fruit,  put  it  in  a  por- 
celain kettle,  and  boil  gently  three  minutes,  then  add  the  sugar  gradu- 
ally, let  it  become  boiling  hot  but  no  more,  and  put  it  in  the  jars ; 
fill  the  jars  to  the  top,  and  cover,  while  boiling  hot,  with  paper  dipped 
in  beaten  egg,  press  the  paper  to  the  jar  so  that  there  can  be  no  air 
hole,  cover  the  top  with  egg  until  it  is  perfectly  air-tight ;  mark  the 
contents  and  date  of  preserving  on  the  cover,  and  set  it  in  a  cool,  dry 
place,  where  the  mice  cannot  get  at  it. 

Ctjeeant  Jam,  No.  2. — Boil  the  currants  gently  one  hour  with  the 
sugar,  and  put  it  in  jars.  This  will  he  dark  and  very  rich,  it  will  not 
work,  and  can  be  used  to  advantage  in  large  families,  but  is  not  as 
handsome  as  the  first  receipt.  If  boiled  until  very  thick,  it  will  keep 
years.  If  it  candies,  set  the  jar  in  boiling  water  until  it  heats  through, 
and  dissolves  the  sugar. 

Ctjeeant  Jelly. — Pick  currants  always  for  jam  and  jelly  in  a  dry 
day,  and  before  they  are  dead  ripe ;  when  very  sweet  and  nice  for 
table  use,  the  gelatine  has  been  converted  by  a  process  of  nature  into 
sugar.  Currants  must  be  scalded  the  same  day  they  are  picked,  or 
they  may  not  jelly ;  look  them  over,  carefully  removing  all  stems,  and 
scald  them  over  boiling  water  in  an  enamelled  kettle,  but  do  not  allow 
them  to  reach  boiling  heat,  and  pour  them  in  the  jelly  bag  without 
bruising  while  hot ;  hang  the  bag  over  an  earthen  dish,  and  let  them 
drip  without  pressing  until  the  next  morning.  Then  measure  the 
juice,  and  allow  eight  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  to  eight  pints  of  the 
juice;  put  the  juice  in  an  enamelled  kettle  over  a  clear  fire,  remove 
all  the  scum  that  rises,  and  when  boiling  hot  scatter  in  the  sugar  with 


SMALL    FRUITS.  265 

one  hand,  and  stir  the  jelly  with  the  other ;  let  the  jelly  become 
nearly  boiling  hot,  slip  in  the  skimmer,  shake  it  in  the  cold  if  it  ap- 
pears like  setting,  dish  it  immediately  into  small  moulds,  tumblers,  or 
jars.  If  the  currants  were  in  a  right  state,  the  jelly  will  set  by  the 
time  the  sugar  dissolves.  White  currants  do  not  make  as  pretty 
jelly  as  red,  but  equal  parts  of  white  and  red  make  a  beautiful  jelly. 
Use  only  the  best  sugar  for  all  jellies.  Put  over  jelly,  when  cold,  a 
tissue  paper  wet  in  brandy,  and  cover  the  jars  or  moulds,  with  paper 
cut  to  fit  and  notched,  wet  with  the  white  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
The  jelly  bag  may  be  pressed,  and  a  solid  but  cloudy  jelly  made  from 
the  juice  obtained.  It  is  as  good  for  cakes  and  gravies  as  the 
other. 

Geape  Jam. — Heat  grapes  over  water  until  the  juice  begins  to 
flow ;  then  put  them  on  the  fire  and  boil  gently  half  an  hour ;  when 
cool  enough  to  handle  put  them  in  a  fine  colander  that  will  not  let 
the  seeds  of  the  grape  through.  Press  the  pulp  through,  weigh  it,  and  al- 
low one  pound  two  ounces  of  sugar  for  every  pound  of  grape ;  put  the 
sugar  and  pulp  together,  and  cook  gently,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
forms  a  thick  jam.  The  wild  grape  will  do  for  this  preserve,  but  is  not  as 
good  as  the  cultivated  varieties,  as  it  will  not  form  a  jam  solid  enough 
to  retain  the  form  when  turned  out.  Green  grapes  make  a  very  nice 
preserve  prepared  in  this  manner ;  put  the  jam  in  small  moulds,  and 
cover  as  directed  in  the  currant  jelly. 

Geape  Jelly.— Take  cultivated  grapes  hardly  ripe,  or  green.  If  a 
light-colored  jelly  is  desired,  take  them  quite  green.  Boil  gently 
until  the  juice  is  flowing  and  the  pulp  half  dissolved.  Cool  them, 
and  press  them  through  a  strong  but  thin  bag,  which  will  allow  most 
of  the  dissolved  pulp  to  pass  through.  "Weigh  the  pulp,  and  allow 
one  pound  two  ounces  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit,  boil  the  jelly 
until  considerably  reduced,  and  then  add  th«  sugar ;  boil  with  the 
sugar  fifteen  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  put  into  moulds; 
cover  as  already  directed  in  currant  jelly.  "Wild  grapes  make  a  jelly ; 
but  it  will  not  form  so  as  to  retain  the  shape  of  the  mould  when 
turned  out. 

Black  Cueeant  Jam. — "Weigh  the  fruit,  and  allow  equal  weight  of 
sugar ;  jam  the  fruit,  and  heat  it  gradually ;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then 
add  the  sugar ;  stir  it  constantly  fifteen  minutes  while  steadily  boil- 
ing, and  then  put  it  into  moulds ;  cover  with  paper  wet  with  egg}  as 
particularly  directed  in  Cueeant  Jelly. 
12 


26$  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Black  Currant  Jelly. — It  is  necessary  to  add  a  little  water  to 
the  fruit,  in  order  to  strain  it,  it  is  so  very  thick,  unless  jam  is  made 
at  the  same  time,  when  a  part  can  be  strained  for  the  jelly,  and  the 
remainder  used  for  jam.  After  it  is  boiled  so  as  to  heat  the  fruit 
through,  press  it  little  by  little  until  all  the  juice  is  extracted ;  measure 
the  juice,  and  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice ;  mix 
the  juice  and  sugar,  and  boil  ten  minutes  gently,  stirring  constantly, 
when  it  will  be  ready  to  put  in  moulds.  Cover  as  directed  in  Cur- 
rant Jelly. 

Gooseberry  Jelly. — This  is  made  exactly  as  black  currant  jelly ; 
use  no  water  with  the  fruit,  but  press  it  firmly,  and  make  the  remains 
of  the  pulp  into  jam ;  if  desired  to  remove  the  skins,  pass  the  pulp 
through  a  colander,  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  for  one  of  jam. 

To  Preserve  Hermetically- sealed  Gooseberries  "Whole. — Prick 
nice  large  gooseberries,  free  from  mildew,  several  times ;  put  them  in 
a  strong  syrup  (See  Syrups,  Part  III.,  Chap.  XII.) ;  warm  the  syrup 
with  the  fruit  in  it  to  160°,  and  let  them  remain  overnight;  repeat 
this  until  the  berries  are  completely  preserved  with  the  syrup,  then 
heat  them  gently  to  near  boiling  heat,  say  200°  ;  let  them  remain  to 
cool  until  the  next  day,  then  put  them  in  bottles  with  the  syrup 
equally  divided ;  cork  and  wire  them,  and  put  the  bottles  in  the  cold 
bath,  and  heat  the  bath  to  boiling  heat.  If,  before  the  water  boils, 
the  fruit  shows  any  appearance  of  cracking,  remove  them  immediately 
and  seal  the  bottles  tightly ;  if  not,  seal  them  when  the  water  boils. 

Whortleberry  Jelly. — Heat  whortleberries  over  water,  press  the 
juice,  allow  one  pound  of  sugar  for  every  pint  of  juice.  Boil  the 
juice,  add  the  sugar,  and  put  it  in  jars  as  soon  as  it  shows  signs  of 
setting,  which  will  be  very  soon  if  the  fruit  is  in  a  right  state ;  no 
fruit  will  make  a  jelly  if  in  the  least  inclining  to  fermentation. 
Cover  with  egg  paper  as  directed  in  Currant  Jelly. 

Blackberry  Jelly. — Prepare  the  fruit  as  above,  and  make  the 
jelly  in  the  same  manner. 

Raspberry  Jelly. — Prepare  the  fruit  as  directed  in  Currant  Jelly, 
and  make  the  jelly  as  there  directed.  If  raspberries  are  scarce,  use 
one  pint  of  currant  juice  to  two  of  the  raspberry,  and  the  flavor  will 
be  quite  as  pleasant. 

Raspberry  or  Blackberry  Jam. — Boil  the  fruit  after  it  i& 
weighed  until  reduced  one-third,  then  add  as  many  pounds  of  sugar 


SMALL    FRUITS.  267 

as  there  was  fruit,  stir  in  the  sngar  gradually,  and  as  soon  as  it  melts 
and  becomes  boiling  hot,  put  it  in  small  bottles  with  large  corks  while 
boiling  hot,  cork  immediately  and  seal  carefully.  If  the  bottles  are 
put  in  cold  water,  and  heated  to  boiling  heat,  and  drained  over  heat, 
and  filled  while  hot,  they  will  not  break  with  the  jam ;  but  if  cold 
when  the  preserve  is  put  in  the  bottles,  they  may  crack. 

To  Peeseeve  Easpbeeeies  oe  Blackbeeeies,  Heemetically 
Sealed. — "Weigh  the  fruit,  and  allow  equal  weight  of  sugar ;  put  al- 
ternate layers  of  sugar  and  raspberries  in  wide-mouthed  jars  until  the 
bottles  are  full,  let  them  stand  until  the  next  day.  If  the  bottles  are 
too  full,  drain  off  the  juice ;  if  not  full  enough,  add  more  fruit  and 
sugar ;  the  fruit  should  be  three  inches  from  the  cork ;  cork  the 
bottles  tightly  and  wire  the  corks  down ;  place  the  bottles  in  the  cold 
bath,  heat  them  to  boiling  heat,  let  them  stand  in  the  bath  until 
ready  to  seal ;  be  careful  to  seal  tightly,  and  set  them  in  a  cool  place. 
"Watch  them  for  one  month,  and  turn  them  up  daily  to  prevent  their 
moulding.  Label  the  bottles  with  the  date  of  preserving,  before  put- 
ting them  away  for  the  winter.  Plain  preserves  may  be  made  with 
half  the  sugar. 

Ripe  Cueeants,  Heemetically  Sealed  and  Peeseeved. — Prepare 
the  fruit  exactly  as  for  jelly  without  heating ;  drain  off  one  quarter  of  the 
juice  without  bruising,  weigh  the  remainder,  and  allow  equal  parts  of 
sugar  and  fruit ;  mash  the  fruit  and  stir  the  sugar  gently  into  it,  put  the 
preserves  in  bottles,  and  manage  as  directed  in  the  preceding  receipt. 

To  Peeseeve  and  Heemetically  Seal  Steawbeeeies. — Select 
large  strawberries  hardly  ripe,  the  firmer  the  berry  the  better ;  soft 
berries^  as  for  instance  the  Ohio  Mammoth,  do  not  make  fine  pre- 
serves. "Weigh  the  fruit,  and  allow  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
for  one  pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  sugar  and  fruit  in  layers,  in  a  flat 
earthen  dish,  set  the  dish  in  a  cool  place  until  the  next  morning,  then 
drain  off  the  juice  that  has  settled  from  the  fruit  without  disturbing 
the  berries ;  weigh  the  juice,  and  take  it  from  the  weight  of  the 
fruit,  weigh  the  same  number  of  pounds  of  sugar,  as  the  fruit  without 
the  juice,  deducting  one-fourth  of  a  pound  for  the  sugar  already  in 
the  fruit.  Pack  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  layers,  in  bottles,  cork  and 
wire  tightly,  put  them  in  the  water  bath,  and  heat  to  boiling  heat ; 
remove  the  bottles  from  the  bath  as  soon  as  the  water  reaches  212°, 
and  seal  immediately.  Be  particularly  careful  to  seal  so  as  to  make 
them  air-tight,  or  the  fruit  will  ferment  and  break  the  bottles.     If 


£68  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

perfectly  sealed,  tlie  frnit  will  keep  years.  Examine  daily  for  six  weeks, 
and  turn  the  bottles  often  to  prevent  monld,  but  do  not  shake  them 
to  break  the  fruit ;  if  turned  up  each  day,  so  as  to  disturb  the  fruit  for 
six  weeks,  it  will  seldom  mould  afterward. 

To  Hermetically  Seal  Strawberries,  Raspberries,  "Whortle- 
berries, Blackberries,  Ripe  Currants,  in  Tin  Cans,  No.  I. — Pick 
the  fruit  before  it  is  perfectly  ripe ;  all  fruit  loses  flavor  as  soon  as 
ripe.  A  species  of  fermentation  takes  place  in  all  fruits,  whether  on 
the  tree  or  gathered  as  soon  as  it  is  what  is  usually  termed  dead  ripe. 
For  a  quart  can  of  fruit  allow  half  a  pint  of  the  best  sugar,  put  the 
sugar  in  the  bottom  of  the  can,  and  fill  to  within  one  inch  of  the  top 
of  the  can  with  the  fruit ;  solder  the  cap  on  the  can,  have  ready  a 
kettle  of  water  boiling  hot,  or  as  near  to  it  as  possible  without  boil- 
ing, about  209°  tested  by  a  thermometer.  To  Test  Cans. — Put  the 
cans,  after  they  are  soldered  up,  in  the  hot  water  one  by  one ;  watch 
them  closely,  if  any  bubbles  arise  from  them,  air  is  escaping  from  the 
cans  and  they  are  not  tight ;  mark  the  spots  where  the  bubbles  come 
out  and  have  them  soldered ;  try  them  again  until  they  appear  perfect, 
when  they  will  be  ready  for  the  bath. 

To  Make  a  Bath  eoe  Fine  Fruits. — It  is  important  that  it  is  ar- 
ranged in  such  a  manner  that  the  heat  can  be  equally  maintained 
from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour  over  a  fire.  "Water  either  in- 
creases in,  or  loses,  heat.  If  a  steam-pipe  is  carried  to  a  bath,  the 
heat  can  be  regulated  by  stop-cocks ;  but  as  few  families  have  this 
convenience  we  must  give  some  other  plan.  Take  the  wash  boiler, 
have  a  pan  fitted  to  the  boiler  six  inches  deep,  with  a  pipe  through 
the  middle  two  inches  in  diameter,  and  seven  inches  high.  Fill  the 
boiler  to  within  three  inches  of  the  pan  with  cold  water ;  fill  the 
basin  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  come  within  one  inch  of  the  top 
of  the  cans.  Make  a  fire  under  the  boiler,  test  the  water  in  the  basin 
often,  and  when  it  is  raised  to  150°,  punch  the  cans  with  a  small 
awl,  and  let  them  remaift  in  the  bath ;  if  the  water  rises  over  the 
cans,  dip  out  some.  Test  the  water  often  with  a  thermometer  to 
know  when  it  reaches  the  proper  heat,  which  is  170°  for  small 
fruits ;  when  this  is  the  heat  of  the  water,  notice  the  time  and  leave 
the  strawberries  in  for  twenty  minutes ;  raspberries,  twenty-five ; 
blackberries,  the  same ;  currants  and  whortleberries,  half  an  hour. 
Solder  the  holes  in  the  cans  before  taking  them  from  the  water ;  as 
soon  as  they  are  soldered,  take  them  from  the  bath,  and  turn  them 
upside  down  until  morning,  and  then  examine  them ;  if  the  ends  are 


SMALL    FRUITS.  269 

drawn  in,  the  cans  will  probably  prove  perfect ;  if  not,  they  are  not  air- 
tight. If  the  leak  can  be  found,  solder  it,  and  repeat  the  process ;  if 
not,  use  the  fruit,  or  change  it  to  another  can,  or  it  will  soon  ferment, 
and  burst  the  cans.  Mark  the  cans,  and  put  them  away  where  they 
can  be  seen  without  trouble.  If  any  swell,  open  them,  use  the  fruit 
immediately,  as  they  will  certainly  spoil,  and  you  will  lose  both  fruit 
and  can.  No  tin  cans  should  be  used  for  acid  fruits  the  second  time. 
If  intended  to  keep  long,  varnish  them  to  save  the  tin  from  rust. 

To  Hermetically  Seal  all  Small  Fruits  without  Sugar  in 
Cans,  No.  2. — Put  the  fruit  in  the  cans,  filling  them  to  within  one 
inch  of  the  top.  To  green  currants  and  gooseberries,  add  half  a  pint 
of  soft  water ;  to  whortleberries  and  blackberries,  one  gill ;  to  straw- 
berries, raspberries,  and  ripe  currants  none,  and  then  proceed  exactly 
as  before  directed  with  sugar.  All  small  fruits  may  be  preserved  in 
bottles,  but  are  in  danger  of  moulding ;  put  the  fruit  in  bottles,  and 
add  water  as  directed  in  pie  fruit  plums,  Part  V.,  Chap.  IV.  Direc- 
tions for  making  small  fruit  pies,  and  using  hermetically  sealed  small 
fruits,  will  be  found  in  Part  III.,  Chap.  VII. 

To  Hermetically  Seal  Small  Fruits  without  Piercing  the 
Can,  No.  3. — Sugar  the  fruit,  let  it  stand  overnight  in  an  earthen 
dish.  In  the  morning  fill  the  cans  to  about  two  inches  of  the  top, 
solder  on  the  cap,  test  thoroughly  with  the  hot  water,  solder  all  im- 
perfect places,  put  them  in  the  bath  with  the  water  to  the  top  of  the 
can,  and  heat  gradually ;  when  the  water  reaches  the  heat  of  170°,  take 
the  basin  from  the  boiler,  or  fill  the  boiler  with  cold  water  through 
the  tube  to  reduce  the  heat  ten  degrees,  and  let  them  remain  twenty 
minutes.  The  next  day  put  the  cans  in  boiling  water,  one  by  one,  a 
few  moments  to  test  them ;  if  tight,  no  bubbles  will  rise ;  if  not,  solder 
the  imperfect  places  and  heat  the  cans  over ;  fruit  put  up  in  this  man- 
ner retains  the  flavor  better,  than  if  punched  and  soldered  hot. 

Strawberry  Jam. — Boil  the  strawberdls  until  reduced  to  paste ; 
have  ready  as  many  pounds  of  the  best  sugar  as  there  was  fruit  before 
boiling ;  add  the  sugar,  stirring  constantly  until  the  jam  is  reduced  to 
a  stiff  paste;  pack  it  in  jars  while  hot,  and  cover  with  paper  wet  with 
egg.    (See  Currant  Jelly.) 

Strawberry  Jelly. — This  is  made  with  one  ounce  of  gelatine  to 
one  pint  and  three  gills  of  strawberry  syrup.  Soak  the  gelatine  over- 
night in  one  gill  of  water,  heat  it  gradually,  and  when  dissolved,  add 
it  to  the  syrup ;  let  it  boil  up,  and  pass  it  through  a  jelly  bag  until 


270         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

clear,  after  which  mould  it.    If  made  in  the  summer,  set  it  on  ice ;  in 
the  winter  it  will  keep  some  time,  but  will  soon  melt  in  the  summer. 

To  Dry  Strawberries.— Spread  the  fruit  on  plates,  scatter  over 
it  granulated  sugar,  and  dry  in  the  sun.  Before  putting  it  away,  scald 
it  by  putting  the  fruit  in  a  bright  tin  pan  or  enamelled  kettle  over 
hot  water  ;  stir  it  often  until  hot  enough  to  destroy  any  insects'  eggs 
that  may  have  been  laid  in  the  fruit  while  drying.  Put  the  berries 
in  small  paper  bags,  and  paste  them  together ;  the  bags  should  hold 
about  a  pint ;  use  the  contents  of  a  bag  when  opened.  Keep  them 
out  of  the  reach  of  rats  and  mice.  The  fruit  can  be  dried  without 
sugar,  though  not  as  nice. 

To  Dry  Blackberries  and  Easpberries. — The  best  raspberries 
to  dry  are  the  wild  black ;  spread  them  thin,  and  dry  in  the  sun. 
Blackberries  are  not  as  nice  dried  as  raspberries.  Select  the  best 
fruit  for  drying,  not  overripe ;  dry  in  the  sun,  and  heat  over  hot 
water  before  putting  away  in  paper  bags.    {See  Dried  Strawberries.) 

To  Dry  Whortleberries. — Select  the  large  blueberry,  the  in- 
ferior berries  are  all  seeds  when  dried,  and  worthless ;  scald  and  pack 
them  in  bags  after  they  are  fully  dried.  {See  Dried  Strawbereies.) 
"When  used  they  must  soak  all  night,  and  are  improved  by  adding  a 
few  currants  or  raspberries  to  them ;  dried  whortleberries  are  mostly 
used  for  pies ;  add  acid,  if  no  acid  fruit  is  mixed  with  them. 

To  Dry  Currants. — Pick  them  before  dead  ripe,  stew  them  with- 
out crushing,  spread  them  on  plates,  scatter  over  them  good  coffee 
sugar,  and  dry  them  in  the  oven.  These  are  pleasant  to  eat,  but 
worth  little  to  cook.  Soak  them  overnight,  if  to  be  stewed ;  they 
should  be  kept  in  paper  bags.    {See  Dried  Strawberries.) 

Cranberry  Jelly  and  Jam. — Make  it  exactly  like  currant  jelly ; 
do  not  press  the  jelly  bag.  .-  To  make  the  jam,  pass  the  pulp  through  a 
sieve,  add  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  fruit,  boil  gently  until  clear,  and 
mould  it ;  cover  with  paper  wet  in  egg,  etc,    {See  Currant  Jelly.) 

To  Preserve  Cranberries  for  Winter  Use. — Keep  the  fruit  in  a 
tub  of  water,  change  the  water  occasionally  to  keep  it  fresh,  and 
throw  out  the  imperfect  fruit. 

To  Stew  Cranberries. — Pick  them  over  carefully,  allow  half  as 
much  sugar  as  fruit,  put  the  fruit  in  the  stew-pan,  cook  slowly  a  few 


SMALL    FRUITS.  271 

moments,  jam  the  fruit,  add  the  sugar,  and  stew  until  quite  clear.     It 
can  be  moulded. 

To  Preserve  Grapes  for  Winter  Use,  No.  1. — Notice  the  stem  of 
the  grape,  and  you  will  find  that  it  is  dried  and  withered  near  the 
branch ;  cut  in  dry  weather  as  near  the  branch  as  possible ;  remove  all 
imperfect  fruit,  and  pack  them  in  boxes,  with  layers  of  the  nicest  wad- 
ding between,  not  suffering  the  fruit  to  touch  ;  paper  should  be  placed 
between  the  grapes  and  the  wadding,  as  the  cotton  often  sticks  to  the 
grapes,  and  is  troublesome  to  pick  off.  Keep  the  grapes  in  a  cool 
place,  to  preserve  the  fruit  from  the  unpleasant  flavor  of  the  cotton. 
Should  the  season  be  backward  and  the  stem  still  green,  cut  the  grapes 
as  close  to  the  branch  as  possible,  and  dip  the  ends  of  the  stem  in 
melted  sealing  wax  immediately.  Grapes  preserve  beautifully  by  pur- 
suing this  course,  most  of  the  winter. 

To  Preserve  Grapes  in  Sawdust,  No.  2. — Procure  sawdust  of 
tasteless  wood,  sift  and  dry  it  in  the  oven ;  have  ready  a  seasoned 
white-wood  box ;  scatter  a  layer  of  sawdust,  one  inch  thick,  in  the 
bottom  of  the  box,  pack  fresh  picked  fruit  perfectly  dry  and  free  from 
blemishes  on  the  sawdust  without  allowing  the  bunches  to  touch ; 
scatter  the  sawdust  evenly  until  the  fruit  is  covered  two  inches  deep. 
Fasten  narrow  strips  of  cotton  across  the  box,  sides,  and  ends,  forming 
squares  to  support  the  next  layer;  scatter  on  sawdust;  pack  the 
grapes  as  the  first  layer,  fill  the  box  with  the  sawdust,  screw  (not  nail) 
on  the  cover,  and  keep  the  box  in  a  dry  place,  and  as  cool  as  possible 
without  freezing.     {See  gathering,  in  No.  1 

To  Preserve  Grapes  in  Sand,  No.  3.— Use  fine  lake  sand  sifted 
free  from  gravel  and  fine  dust,  and  dried  perfectly  in  an  oven.  Pre- 
pare a  dry  white- wood  box  with  handles.  Fasten  strong  twine  firmly 
to  the  sides  of  the  box,  and  hang  fine  perfect  bunches  of  dry,  fresh- 
gathered  grapes  on  the  twine,  so  that  there  will  be  a  space  of  one 
inch  between  the  top,  bottom,  and  sides  of  the  grapes,  and  then  sift 
in,  slowly  and  evenly,  sufficient  sand  to  cover  the  fruit  two  inches  deep. 
Screw  on  the  cover  instead  of  nailing  it,  as  pounding  would  jar  the 
grapes.  Set  the  box  in  a  room  free  from  dampness,  where  the  tem- 
perature is  just  above  freezing  point.     {See  gathering,  in  No.  1.) 


PART  VI. 


WINES,  FRUIT  BRANDIES,  FRUIT  VINEGARS,  CORDIALS,  &o. 


CHAPTER  I. 

WINES  AND  TABLE  BEEE. 

Whoetlebeeey  Wine. — Pour  over  whortleberries  sufficient  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  them,  let  the  fruit  remain  in  the  water  overnight ; 
in  the  morning  press  out  the  juice  and  measure  it ;  allow  to  every 
gallon  two  pounds  of  sugar ;  put  it  in  a  barrel,  and  add  spices  or  not, 
as  desired.  When  the  wine  has  ceased  to  ferment,  close  the  bung, 
and  place  the  barrel  where  it  will  remain  undisturbed  for  several 
months.  Bottle  when  the  wine  is  nine  months  old.  If  not  clear, 
filter  it  before  bottling. 

Gbape  Wine,  No.  1. — Five  gallons  of  ripe  grapes  crushed  and 
soaked  in  four  and  a  half  gallons  of  soft  water  seven  days ;  seventeen 
and  a  half  pounds  of  nice  sugar.  Wash  all  the  juice  from  the  grapes 
into  the  water,  and  remove  the  seeds,  skin,  and  pulp ;  put  it  in  a  clean 
cask,  leave  open  the  barrel  until  fermentation  ceases,  then  stop  the 
bung  tightly. 

Sweet  Cuke  ant  Wine. — To  every  quart  of  juice  allow  three 
pounds  No.  1  coffee  sugar,  and  two  quarts  of  clean  soft  water. 
Never  let  the  currants  stand  overnight  without  scalding.  Press  out 
the  juice,  and  mix  in  it  the  water  and  sugar ;  this  is  the  receipt  for 
one  gallon  of  wine.    If  a  barrel  is  used,  be  particular  to  have  it  clean 


WINES  AND  TABLE  BEER.  2/3 

and  sweet.  Pour  the  mixture  in  the  barrel,  and  tack  over  tne  bung 
cotton  cloth,  to  prevent  the  wine  from  running  over.  The  barrel 
should  contain  thirty  gallons,  allowing  three  gallons  for  fermenting 
room ;  as  soon  as  the  fermentation  ceases,  close  the  bung-hole,  and 
place  the  barrel  where  it  will  remain  for  six  months.  The  longer 
wine  remains  without  bottling,  the  more  wine  there  will  be  to  the 
gallon,  and  the  greater  will  be  the  body  of  the  wine.  The  currant  wine 
already  described  is  the  rule  which  we  have  followed  for  several 
years,  and  the  wine  has  been  mistaken  for  raisin  wine  by  persons  who 
are  called  good  judges.  The  older  the  better.  The  following  rules  for 
eurrant  wines  are  from  the  best  authority,  but  untested  by  ourselves.. 

White  Cttreant  "Wine. — Heat  forty  pounds  of  white  currants, 
press  out  the  juice,  and  add  four  gallons  of  soft  water.  Dissolve 
twenty-five  pounds  of  white  sugar  in  the  juice,  wash  out  the  pulp 
with  more  water,  strain  and  add  it  to  the  juice,  and  fill  up  with  soft 
water  until  the  whole  measures  nineteen  gallons.  In  respect  to  man- 
aging the  wine,  the  first  rule  gives  full  directions. 

Red  Cueeant  Wine. — Eight  gallons  of  currants,  and  one  quart  of 
raspberries ;  scald  and  press  out  the  juice,  and  to  the  seeds  and  skins 
add  eleven  gallons  of  cold  water,  add  two  pounds  of  beet-root  sliced 
thin  as  possible ;  let  them  remain  with  the  pulp  and  water  twelve 
hours ;  then  press  out  the  mixture,  and  add  the  liquor  to  the  juice. 
Dissolve  in  the  mixture  twenty  pounds  of  good  coffee  sugar,  and 
three  ounces  of  red  tartar  in  powder.  When  the  fermentation  ceases, 
close  the  bung,  and  leave  the  barrel  stationary  until  wanted  for 
bottling. 

Black  Currant  Wine,  No.  1. — Follow  either  of  the  above  receipts, 
except  the  beets  and  raspberries,  and  allow  for  the  same  quantity  of 
wine,  two  gallons  less  of  fruit,  than  in  the  red  currant  wine. 

Black  Currant  Wlne,  No.  2. — Six  gallons  of  black  currants, 
three  of  strawberries  scalded,  four  ounces  of  red  tartar,  and  twenty- 
five  pounds  good  sugar ;  add  eleven  gallons  soft  water. 

Spiced  Elderberry  Wine. — Ten  gallons  of  elderberries,  ten  gal- 
lons of  soft  water,  boil  and  strain ;  eight  ounces  red  tartar,  forty -five 
pounds  of  white  sugar ;  ferment  with  yeast.  When  in  the  cask  add 
ginger,  cloves,  nutmeg,  mace,  in  all  four  ounces  of  spices,  and  three 
ounces  of  bitter  almonds.  After  fermentation  has  ceased,  close  the 
barrel  tight,  and  rack  it  off  when  convenient. 
12* 


274 

Cherry  "Wine. — Select  morello  cherries  not  overripe ;  pick  them 
free  from  the  stems,  bruise  the  pulp  without  breaking  the  pits,  and  add 
to  each  gallon  three  pounds  of  sugar ;  let  it  remain  over  night,  then  pass 
it  through  a  fine  colander,  put  it  in  a  cask,  let  it  ferment,  and  draw  off 
the  wine  as  soon  as  clear.    Some  add  a  part  of  the  kernels. 

Damson  "Wine. — Boil  eight  gallons  of  fruit  in  eleven  of  water ; 
strain,  and  add  thirty  pounds  of  sugar,  six  ounces  of  red  tartar ;  strain 
and  ferment  as  usual. 

French  Cherry  Wine.— Bruise,  and  extract  the  juice  after  heat- 
ing to  boiling  heat,  fifteen  pounds  of  cherries,  and  two  of  red  cur- 
rants ;  add  two-thirds  of  the  kernels  to  each  gallon  of  juice,  with  two 
pounds  of  sugar  ;  cover  the  bung  with  cloth  while  fermenting.  The 
cask  should  be  as  full  of  the  mixture  as  possible  without  running  over 
in  fermenting.  Bottle  in  two  months  if  convenient ;  if  not,  close  the 
bung,  and  leave  the  barrel  undisturbed. 

Mulberry  Wine. — Bruise  the  mulberries  before  they  are  quite 
ripe ;  add  as  many  gallons  of  soft  water  as  there  is  fruit ;  let  it  stand 
over  night,  then  press  out  the  juice,  and  to  every  gallon  of  liquor 
allow  three  pounds  of  sugar.    Ferment  in  the  usual  manner. 

Apricot  or  Peach  Wine. — Bruise  the  fruit  when  nearly  ripe, 
and  reduce  the  pulp  to  paste ;  to  eight  pounds  allow  one  quart 
of  water ;  bring  it  to  a  boil ;  squeeze  out  the  juice ;  add  to  every 
gallon  two  pounds  loaf-sugar.  Ferment  in  the  usual  method.  Bot- 
tle when  clear,  if  convenient;  if  not,  leave  the  cask  undisturbed, 
and  the  bung  tightly  plugged. 

Strawberry  Wine,  No.  1. — Scald  the  fruit,  press  out  the  juice ; 
to  every  quart  add  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  and  two  quarts  of 
water ;  pour  the  water  over  the  pulp  of  the  fruit,  wash  it  well,  and 
strain  it  in  the  juice.  Ferment  as  directed  for  currant  wine.  Leave 
the  barrel  six  months  undisturbed  before  bottling. 

Strawberry  Wine,  No.  2. — Prepare  as  above,  allowing  to  one 
quart  of  juice  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  soft  water.  Fer- 
ment as  directed  for  currant  wine. 

Kaspberry  Wine,  No.  1. — Allow  for  every  gallon  of  juice  eight 
pounds  of  sugar  and  eight  quarts  of  water.     Ferment  as  other  wines. 

Raspberry  Wine,  No.  2. — To  every  quart  of  juice  add  two  quarts 


WINES  AND  TABLE  BEER.  275 

of  soft  water  and  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar ;  boil  the  fruit,  press  out 
the  juice,  wash  the  pulp  in  the  water,  and  strain  it  in  the  wine. 

Ginger  Wine,  No.  1. — Boil  in  nine  gallons  of  soft  water  twelve 
ounces  of  bruised  ginger  until  the  water  is  highly  flavored;  add 
eighteen  pounds  nice  sugar,  and  when  nearly  cold,  a  little  hop  yeast. 
Back  off  as  soon  as  clear,  and  bottle  immediately. 

Gooseberry  Wine. — Take  forty  pounds  of  nice  large  gooseberries 
before  they  commence  to  turn  ripe,  but  not  before  fully  grown; 
remove  the  blossoms  and  tails ;  bruise  the  fruit  without  crushing  the 
seeds  or  skins ;  add  to  the  pulp  four  gallons  of  soft  water,  stir  and 
mash  the  fru\t  in  the  water  until  the  whole  pulp  is  cleared  from  the 
skin ;  le'"  it  stand  for  six  hours,  strain  it  through  a  coarse  bag  or  sieve 
that  w*li  not  let  through  the  seeds ;  bring  the  water  and  juice  to 
boilipg  heat,  and  dissolve  thirty  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  add  it  to 
the  liquor ;  pass  a  gallon  of  water  through  the  mass,  strain,  and  add 
it  to  the  mixture ;  measure  the  wine,  and  add  soft  water  until  it 
measures  ten  gallons.  Let  it  ferment  as  currant  wine.  Leave  the 
barrel  tightly  bunged  after  the  fermentation  has  ceased,  until  it  is 
drawn  off  to  bottle. 

Ehubarb  Wine,  No.  1. — Chop  the  rhubarb  plant,  drain  off  the  juice, 
and  add  to  every  quart,  one  quart  of  water  and  two  of  sugar.  Let 
it  ferment,  and  bottle  when  clear. 

Ehubarb  Wine,  No.  2. — Chop  the  stalks  to  fifty  pounds  of  rhu- 
barb, allow  thirty  pounds  of  sugar,  press  the  juice,  add  the  sugar  and 
sufficient  water  to  make  nine  gallons  of  wine ;  put  it  in  a  cask,  cover 
with  cloth  until  fermentation  ceases,  plug  the  barrel  for  three  months, 
and  then  draw  off  the  wine  and  bottle  it.  If  not  convenient  to 
bottle,  draw  it  off  in  a  clean  cask  that  it  will  fill  entirely  full.  Wine 
barrels  ought  always  to  be  filled  full  after  the  fermentation  is  over. 

Eaisin  Wine,  No.  1. — Procure  fresh  raisins  (the  Smyrna  or  Mal- 
aga make  the  best  wine),  pick  the  raisins  free  from  stems,  dried,  and 
imperfect  fruit ;  soak  in  three  gallons  of  hot  water  thirty  pounds  of 
chopped  raisins,  let  them  steep  twenty-four  hours,  then  press  the 
fruit  through  a  strong  canvas  bag  or  sieve  to  obtain  all  the  juice  pos- 
sible from  the  fruit  without  crushing  the  seeds  of  the  raisins ;  add 
an  ounce  of  rude  tartar,  set  the  barrel  in  a  warm  cellar,  and  add  to 
the  liquor  three  pounds  of  white  sugar  dissolved  in  two  gallons  more 
of  hot  water,  shake  well  to  mix  the  liquors,  set  it  in  a  moderately 


276  i 

warm  cellar,  and  cover  the  barrel  with  a  blanket  as  soon  as  the  first 
fermentation  has  ceased.  Eack  off  the  wine  into  a  clean  cask,  bung  it 
up,  and  leave  the  wine  without  disturbing  the  barrel  for  three  months; 
rack  it  again  in  a  clean  cask  and  close  the  bung.  It  will  be  fit  to  bottle 
in  twelve  months. 

Raisin  Wine,  No.  2. — Soak  in  three  gallons  of  hot  water  for 
forty-eight  hours,  sixty  pounds  of  chopped  Smyrna  raisins,  wash  out 
the  pulp,  and  pass  it  through  a  coarse  sieve,  discarding  the  skins  and 
seeds ;  add  another  gallon  of  water  to  the  mash,  wash  the  pulp  clean, 
and  strain  it  as  before ;  add  an  ounce  of  red  tartar  in  powder,  shake 
well,  set  the  barrel  in  the  cellar,  and  keep  it  covered  with  a  blanket 
through  the  first  fermentation,  to  preserve  equality  of  temperature  in  the 
wine  ;  when  the  first  fermentation  ceases,  rack  off  the  wine  in  a  clean 
cask,  and  be  particular  to  preserve  equality  of  temperature  in  the  cel- 
lar ;  at  the  end  of  three  months  again  rack  the  wine,  and  bottle  in 
about  twelve  months. 

Raisin  "Wine,  No.  3. — Three  pounds  of  raisins  chopped  fine,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  and  one  gallon  of  water ;  to  the  chopped  raisins  pour 
one  quart  of  water  heated  to  120°,  let  it  stand  half  an  hour  to  dissolve 
the  sugar  of  the  raisins ;  stir  the  fruit  and  water  with  the  hand  until 
the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved ;  pour  the  fruit  and  water  over  a  coarse 
sieve,  and  let  it  drain,  pressing  but  little ;  take  up  the  skins  and  press 
them  in  the  hand,  and  then  return  them  to  the  dish  or  tub  in  which 
they  were  first  soaked ;  heat  a  quart  of  water  to  160°,  and  pour  it 
over  the  mash ;  go  over  the  same  process  as  before,  and  repeat  the 
process  the  third  and  fourth  time.  Dissolve  one  pound  of  white  sugar 
in  the  liquor,  warm  the  cask  in  which  the  wine  is  to  be  put,  and  keep 
up  the  temperature  to  from  55°  to  60°.  Let  the  wine  remain  in  the 
cask  ten  months  before  bottling. 

Raisin  Sheeey. — One  pound  of  chopped  raisins,  one  quart  of  soft 
water  boiled  and  cooled ;  mix  and  let  it  stand  one  month,  stirring 
frequently ;  take  the  raisins  from  the  cask  and  put  the  liquor  in  a 
closely  stopped  vessel ;  in  four  weeks  rack  it  clear,  leaving  out  all  sed- 
iment ;  if,  at  the  first  racking,  it  is  muddy  in  the  least,  repeat  the 
process  until  the  liquor  is  perfectly  clear ;  measure  and  add  to  every 
five  gallons,  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  the  juice  of  six  oranges,  and 
the  yellow  rind  infused  in  one  quart  of  white  French  brandy ;  mix 
the  whole  in  a  cask,  keep  the  temperature  even,  and  bottle  in  about 
three  months.  / 


WINES  AND  TABLE  BEER.  277 

Grape  Wine,  No.  2. — One  gallon  of  grapes  free  from  stems  and 
blemishes,  one  gallon  of  soft  boiled  water ;  bruise  the  grapes  and  let 
them  stand  with  the  water  seven  days  without  stirring ;  draw  off 
the  liquor,  and  to  every  gallon  allow  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar;  put 
it  in  a  barrel,  cover  with  a  blanket,  and  close  the  bung  as  soon  as 
the  wine  ceases  to  hiss.  It  will  be  fit  for  bottling  in  from  six  to  nine 
months. 

Grape  Wine,  No.  3. — Pick  over  carefully  Catawba  grapes,  bruise, 
and  add  to  each  gallon  of  fruit  one  quart  of  soft  boiled  water ;  let 
it  stand  one  week,  draw  off  the  juice,  and  to  each  gallon  allow 
one  pound  of  loaf-sugar ;  let  the  bung  remain  open  until  the  wine 
ceases  to  hiss,  and  then  close  tightly.  Keep  a  blanket  over  the  barrel 
until  the  wine  is  bottled,  unless  the  cellar  maintains  a  temperature  of 
from  55°  to  60°.  It  will  be  fit  to  bottle  in  from  nine  to  twelve 
months. 

Excellent  Ginger  Wine,  No.  2. — Ten  gallons  soft  water,  fifteen 
pounds  loaf-sugar  clarified  with  the  whites  of  six  eggs ;  bruise  half  a 
pound  of  white  ginger,  boil  half  an  hour ;  rub  off  the  thin  yellow  rind 
of  twelve  lemons,  and  pour  on  the  lemon  peel  the  liquor  boiling  hot ; 
when  cool,  mix  into  the  liquor  a  gill  of  good  yeast,  and  put  it  in  a 
cask,  retaining  two  quarts  of  the  liquor,  in  which  dissolve  two  ounces 
of  shred  isinglass ;  mix  it  with  the  wine  and  shake  well ;  let  it  stand 
open  over  night,  then  close  the  bung,  and  bottle  in  three  weeks.  It 
will  be  fit  to  use  in  three  months. 

Parsnip  Wine. — To  eighteen  pounds  of  sweet  parsnips  add  three 
gallons  of  water,  boil  soft,  and  press  the  liquor  through  a  sieve  ;  add 
to  each  gill  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar ;  when  nearly  cold,  add  yeast ; 
let  the  wine  stand  open  ten  days,  stirring  from  the  bottom  several 
times  each  day ;  then  put  it  in  a  cask,  and  fill  up  with  liquor  reserved 
for  the  purpose,  as  it  works  over. 

*  Tomato  Wine. — One  quart  of  the  juice  to  one  pound  of  sugar;  it 
will  ferment  without  yeast ;  this  wine  is  much  thought,  of  in  some 
places,  and  is  easy  to  make. 

To  Cleanse  a  Wine  Barrel. — It  is  necessary,  in  preparing  a  new 
barrel  for  wine,  to  scald  it  in  salt  and  water,  and  afterwards  soak  it 
in  two  cold  waters ;  after  which  heat  a  little  wine  or  pure  spirits  and 
rinse  out  the  barrel ;  when  an  old  cask  is  emptied,  drain  it  thoroughly, 


278 

burn  a  brimstone  match  in  the  barrel,  and  close  the  bung  imme- 
diately. The  wine  casks  should  be  raised  from  the  cellar  floor  about 
six  inches.  The  temperature  should  be  kept  between  55°  and  60°, 
the  cellar  clean,  and  protected  from  currents  of  air. 

Spruce  Beer. — Boil  to  a  jelly  half  a  pound  of  fine  starch,  and  add 
to  it  one  and  a  half  pound  of  strained  honey,  and  one  gallon  of  soft 
water,  allow  for  three  times  this  receipt  two  ounces  of  the  essence  of 
spruce,  add  yeast,  and  close  the  cask  as  soon  as  fermentation  ceases. 
It  will  be  fit  to  use  in  two  days,  and  will  not  keep  a  very  long  time. 

Molasses  Beer. — Mix  four  quarts  of  molasses  with  thirteen  gal- 
lons of  water  and  three  ounces  of  hops,  boil  for  half  an  hour,  strain 
and  add  yeast. 

Bottled  Table  Beer. — Nine  gallons  of  water,  six  pounds  of  mo- 
lasses, and  eight  ounces  of  the  essence  of  spruce,  and  a  half-pint  of 
yeast ;  skim  off  the  yeast  as  it  rises,  and  when  the  fermentation  has 
nearly  ceased,  bottle  the  beer  in  strong  bottles,  and  wire  down  the 
corks.  Ginger,  lemon,  or  any  other  flavoring  can  be  substituted  for 
spruce. 

Blackberry  Wine,  No.  1. — Scald  the  fruit,  press  out  the  juice, 
and  allow  for  every  quart  two  of  soft,  water  and  three  pounds  of 
white  coffee  sugar ;  let  the  bung  remain  open  until  all  fermentation 
ceases,  after  which  close  the  bung  and  place  the  barrel  where  it  will 
not  be  disturbed  for  several  months. .  Bottle  the  wine  eight  months 
after  it  is  made. 

Blackberry  Wine,  No.  2. — Cover  the  fruit  with  boiling  water ; 
when  sufficiently  cool,  bruise  the  fruit,  and  let  it  stand  until  the  ber- 
ries begin  to  rise  to  the  top,  then  drain  off  the  clear  liquor ;  measure, 
and  add  to  every  gallon  two  pounds  of  sugar ;  stir  it  well,  and  let  it 
stand  open  a  week  or  ten  days,  then  draw  off  the  wine,  and  pass  it 
through  a  jelly  bag.  Dissolve  in  a  little  of  the  wine  half  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  to  every  three  gallons,  and  mix  it  through  the  wine ;  if  not 
quite  clear,  filter  before  bottling. 


FRUIT   BRANDIES.  279 

CHAPTER    II. 

FKUIT  BRANDIES. 

Peach  Brandt,  "No.  1. — Take  one  gallon  nice-flavored  peaches, 
remove  the  skins,  Mash  and  put  them  in  two  gallons  of  white 
French  hrandy,  crack  the  pits  from  one  peck  of  peaches,  and  add 
the  whole  nut  to  the  brandy  ;  let  it  stand  two  months,  then 
strain  the  liquor  through  filtering  paper,  and  bottle  it.  It  is  fine  for 
sauces. 

Another  Peach  Beandy,  No.  2. — Take  four  gallons  of  deodorized 
pure  spirits ;  peel  half  a  bushel  of  peaches,  crack  the  pits,  and  put 
the  whole  in  a  thin  cotton  bag ;  put  the  bag  in  a  clean  cask,  head  it 
up,  and  pour  in  the  pure  spirits ;  shake  it  frequently,  and  when  it  is 
needed  it  will  be  found  a  pleasant  flavored  liquor  for  cooking  pur- 
poses. 

Plum  Beandt,  No.  1. — Take  two  gallons  of  plums,  bruise  them 
and  break  the  pits  ;  put  the  fruit  in  a  four-gallon  keg,  and  fill  it  with 
French  brandy. 

Another  Plum  Brandy,  No.  2. — Take  two  gallons  of  green  gages 
very  ripe,  boil  them  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them ;  to  the  fruit 
add  one  gallon  of  white  French  brandy  and  two  pounds  of  sugar ;  cork 
tightly,  and  after  two  months  filter  the  liquor. 

Steawbeeey  Beandy,  No.  1. — Take  eight  quarts  of  strawberries, 
mash  them,  and  add  to  them  four  pounds  loaf-sugar ;  stir  them  in 
one  gallon  of  French  brandy,  put  them  in  a  four-gallon  jug,  tie  over 
the  mouth  of  the  jug  a  cotton  cloth,  let  it  stand  three  weeks,  then 
cork  tightly  ;  bottle  when  six  months  old. 

Steawbeery  Brandy,  No.  2. — To  every  gallon  of  strawberries, 
add  one  of  deodorized  pure  spirits,  let  it  stand  three  months  before 
drawing  off;  when  ready  to  bottle,  pass  the  liquor  through  a  filtering 
paper,  until  quite  clear. 

White  Cureant  Beandy. — To  one  gallon  of  currant  juice,  add  two 
quarts  of  deodorized  pure  spirits,  and  four  pounds  of  sugar ;  let  it 
stand  three  months  before  bottling. 


280  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Eed  Currant  Brandy. — To  one  gallon  of  the  juice  add  five 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  two  quarts  of  deodorized  pure  spirits ;  draw  off 
and  bottle  the  brandy  after  three  months. 

Black  Currant  Brandy. — Boil  a  half-bushel  of  black  currants 
with  two  gallons  of  water,  half  an  hour ;  after  the  fruit  cools,  add 
four  gallons  of  the  best  deodorized  pure  spirits,  stir  it  briskly,  and  strain 
the  liquor,  squeezing  it  until  all  the  juice  is  out  of  the  fruit ;  add  to 
the  liquor  eight  pounds  of  sugar,  put  it  in  a  clean  cask,  wash  the  fruit 
again  in  one  gallon  of  water  and  one  of  pure  spirits  mixed ;  press  it 
well,  and  add  four  pounds  more  sugar,  put  this  in  the  cask,  and  shake 
it  thoroughly.  It  can  be  used  in  one  month,  but  will  improve  by 
age  ;  is  useful  in  bowel  complaints. 

Elderberry  Brandy. — To  every  gallon  of  brandy,  add  one  of 
elderberries ;  let  it  stand  one  month  before  using.  It  can  be  spiced  if 
desirable. 

Blackberry  Brandy,  No.  1. — Take  equal  parts  of  brandy  and  black- 
berry juice ;  add  to  every  gallon  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar.  This  is 
excellent  for  bowel  complaints. 

Blackberry  Brandy,  No.  2. — To  every  gallon  of  the  fruit,  allow 
one  of  deodorized  pure  spirits ;  mix  them  in  a  barrel,  and  let  the 
berries  dissolve  in  the  spirits.  This  is  made  in  large  quantities,  and 
sold  at  high  prices  for  bowel  complaints,  under  the  name  of  black- 
berry brandy. 

Raspberry  Brandy,  ito.  1. — Allow  for  every  quart  of  the  juice  of 
the  fruit,  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  brandy. 

Raspberry  Brandy,  No.  2.~Put  in  a  barrel  eight  gallons  of  rasp- 
berries, twelve  pounds  of  sugar,  three  gallons  of  water,  and  twelve 
gallons  of  deodorized  pure  spirits;  stir  it  up  every  day  for  two 
weeks,  and  then  let  it  stand ;  when  bottled  it  must  be  filtered. 

.Cherry  Brandy. — Crush  cherries,  allowing  one  quart  to  every 
gallon  of  spirits ;  it  can  be  made  of  any  variety  of  the  cherry,  and 
with  either  deodorized  pure  spirits,  or  brandy.  These  extracts  of 
fruit  in  brandy  will  be  found  much  better  for  pudding  sauces  than  any 
brandy  that  can  be  bought  at  the  shops. 


FRUIT    VINEGARS.  281 


CHAPTER   III. 

FRUIT  VINEGARS 

Cttebant  Vinegae. — To  make  a  barrel,  mash  two  bushels  of  cur- 
rants, press  out  the  juice,  and  wash  the  pulp  free  from  the  acid  of  the 
fruit  in  filtered  rain-water ;  put  the  juice  in  a  barrel ;  add  to  the 
water  in  which  the  pulp  was  washed  two  gallons  of  molasses ;  dissolve 
it  thoroughly,  and  pour  it  in.  the  barrel ;  add  sufficient  rain-water  to 
make  the  barrel  three-quarters  full.  Stir  into  one  gallon  of  water  a 
teacup  of  hop  yeast,  and  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients.  If  the  vin- 
egar is  not  needed  until  winter,  omit  the  yeast.  Set  the  barrel  in  the 
sun,  and  place  in  the  bung-hole  a  junk  bottle.  The  next  fall  add 
eight  gallons  of  soft  rain-water,  which  will  make  the  barrel  full  of 
vinegar :  shake  the  barrel,  while  turning,  every  day. 

Steawbeeey  Vinegae. — Take  two  gallons  of  strawberries,  small 
inferior  ones  are  just  as  good  as  any,  mix  in  them  eight  pounds  of 
sugar,  and  jam  them  very  fine ;  add  four  gallons  of  soft  water,  and 
put  the  whole  into  a  clean  cask,  where  it  will  keep  warm. 

Easpbeeet  Vinegae. — Take  six  quarts  of  raspberry  juice,  twelve 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  three  gallons  of  water ;  put  the  juice,  water,  and 
sugar  together,  and  put  them  in  a  clean  cask ;  shake  them  well ;  put 
the  pulp  of  the  fruit  in  one  gallon  of  water,  with  three  table-spoons 
of  yeast,  and  one  pound  of  sugar  ;  let  it  stand  until  it  has  well  worked, 
then  strain  it  and  add  the  liquid  to  the  cask. 

Peach  Vinegae. — Mash  overripe  peaches,  and  mix  them  in 
water ;  there  should  be  enough  of  the  fruit  to  flavor  the  water,  so  as 
to  taste  as  strong  of  peaches  as  cider  vinegar,  half  reduced  with 
water,  does  of  apples ;  to  every  gallon  of  the  water  add  four  ounces 
of  brown  sugar,  and  a  little  yeast  until  turned,  set  the  cask  in  the  sun 
with  a  junk  bottle  in  the  bung-hole. 

Cheeey  Vinegae. — Beat  up  three  bushels  of  cherries  in  a  tuo, 
and  fill  it  with  water ;  let  them  soak  two  days,  then  drain  them,  and 
press  the  fruit  in  a  bag  to  save  all  the  juice ;  to  this  water  and  juice 
add  half  as  many  gallons  of  water  as  there  is  of  the  liquid,  and  add 
four  ounces  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  the  preparation.  Keep  it  warm 
while  fermenting. 


282 

Plum  Vinegar. — Allow  for  each  gallon  of  water  two  quarts  of 
any  common  plum,  and  soak  the  fruit  until  the  whole  flavor  is  im- 
parted to  the  water ;  to  each  gallon  allow  half  a  pint  of  sugar ;  set 
the  barrel  in  a  warm  place  and  shake  it  daily ;  there  should  be  kept 
in  the  bung  a  black  junk  bottle. 

Gooseberry  Vinegar. — To  two  quarts  of  mashed  gooseberries 
full  grown,  but  green,  allow  three  quarts  of  water  ;  let  the  fruit  soak 
two  days,  then  strain ;  press  out  the  juice,  and  add  a  pint  of  sugar 
to  each  gallon ;  add  yeast,  and  let  it  ferment. 

Blackberry  Vinegar. — To  every  gallon  of  mashed  blackberries 
allow  two  of  water  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  mix  them  together, 
and  put  pulp  and  all  in  a  clean  cask ;  add  a  little  yeast  if  it  is  neces- 
sary to  hasten  fermentation ;  if  not,  set  the  barrel  in  the  sun,  and 
shake  three  times  every  day ;  put  in  the  bung-hole  a  junk  bottle ; 
when  it  is  drawn  for  use,  commence  near  the  top  of  the  barrel,  and 
draw  down,  boring  new  holes  as  needed,  or  the  pulp  will  be  in  the 
way.    If  convenient,  drain  it  off  after  a  few  months. 

Pear  Vinegar. — If  you  have  more  pears  than  you  can  use,  and 
they  are  spoiling,  make  them  into  vinegar.  "We  have  made  excellent 
vinegar  from  the  water  in  which  pears  were  boiled  for  preserves. 
The  pears  should  be  ground  and  pressed  like  apples  for  cider,  and 
used  the  same  way ;  or  they  may  be  boiled  and  pressed,  and  the  juice 
and  water  sweetened  with  molasses. 

"Whortleberry  Vinegar. — Press  the  fruit,  and  add  to  each  gallon 
of  mashed  fruit  six  quarts  of  water  and  one  pound  of  sugar ;  or  it 
may  be  made  with  one  quart  of  the  juice  of  the  fruit  to  two  of  water, 
and  no  sugar.  "When  it  is  drawn  for  use,  commence  near  the  top  of 
the  barrel  and  draw  down,  or  the  pulp  will  be  in  the  way.  If  desired, 
it  can  be  racked  off  after  it  is  soured. 

Ehubarb  Vinegar. — Pick  the  stalks,  chop  them  fine,  and  drain 
off  the  juice  ;  to  every  quart  of  the  juice  allow  three  of  water  and  one 
pound  of  sugar ;  add  the  mother  from  vinegar,  and  put  the  whole  in  a 
clean  cask ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place  until  soured. 

Apple  Vinegar. — "Whenever  apples  are  used  in  the  family,  boil 
the  skins  and  cores  in  as  little  water  as  will  cover  them ;  sweeten 
slightly  with  the  rinsings  of  sweetmeats,  and  put  it  in  a  cask  or  jug  ; 
when  making  cider  apple  sauce,  a  half -barrel  can  be  made  with  but 


FRUIT    VINEGARS. 


283 


little  trouble.    If  apples  are  decaying,  boil  them  up,  strain  the  liquor, 
and  make  vinegar.    It  will  take  but  little  molasses  to  sweeten  it. 

Crab  Apple  Vinegar. — Grind  the  apples,  press  the  juice,  and 
reduce  it  one-third,  after  which  treat  it  like  common  cider  vinegar. 
{See  Cider  Vinegar.) 

Grape  Vinegar. — Take  wild  grapes,  press  out  the  juice,  reduce  it 
one-half,  and  add  to  a  barrel  three  gallons  of  molasses ;  keep  it  warm, 
and  let  it  work  well  before  putting  in  the  bung. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

coedials,  extkacts,  etc. 

The  Famous  Cream  of  Nectar — An  English  Recipe. — Four  pounds 
of  white  sugar  and  three  of  water ;  put  it  over  a  slow  fire  in  a 
porcelain  kettle ;  when  milk- warm,  add  the  whites  of  two  well- 
beaten  eggs ;  bring  it  nearly  to  boiling  heat ;  skim  well  and  bring  it 
to  a  boil,  and  strain  immediately ;  when  cool  add  six  ounces  tartaric 
acid.  Steep  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves  with  the  water  and 
sugar,  or  when  cool  add  some  other  flavoring.  It  should  stand  two 
days  before  using.  Add  a  wine-glass  to  a  glass  of  ice-water,  in  which 
is  dissolved  half  a  teaspoonful  of  super-carbonate  of  soda. 

Cream  of  Oranges. — Two  dozen  oranges,  six  pounds  of  loaf- 
sugar,  orange-flower  water  one  gill,  spirits  of  wine  three  quarts,  tinc- 
ture of  saffron  one-fourth  of  an  ounce ;  chop  the  oranges  fine,  and  let 
the  ingredients  remain  together  one  month,  then  filter  and  bottle. 

Caraway  Cordial. — Put  iftto  one  quart  of  brandy  two  ounces  of 
caraway  seed  and  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar ;  draw  it  off  after  it  has 
steeped  two  weeks. 

Lemon  Cordial. — Take  two  dozen  of  fine  lemons,  and  four  pounds 
of  loaf-sugar ;  steep  the  yellow  part  only  of  the  skin  in  one  gallon  of 
the  best  French  brandy.  Having  rolled  the  lemons,  squeeze  out  all 
the  juice  and  the  pulp  in  one  gallon  of  water,  dissolve  the  sugar  in 
the  water,  and  pass  it  through  a  jelly-bag.  The  peel  of  the  lemon 
should  have  been  steeping  for  twenty-four  hours  in  the  brandy; 


284         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

strain  it  in  the  acid  water  and  sugar,  and  add  three  pints  of  boiling 
hot  milk.  Let  it  stand  twenty -four  hours,  and  then  strain  clear  and 
bottle  it. 

Extract  of  Rose. — Take  a  gallon  bottle,  fill  it  nearly  full  of  rose- 
leaves  packed  tight,  and  fill  the  bottle  with  best  brandy ;  as  the 
leaves  dissolve,  add  more. 

Extract  of  Peach. — Blanch  a  pint  of  peach  pits,  and  add  to  them 
one  quart  of  the  best  brandy  or  pure  deodorized  spirits. 

Extract  of  Nectarine. — Blanch  one  pint  of  nectarine  pits  and 
half  a  pint  of  peach,  pour  over  them  one  quart  of  pure  deodorized 
spirits. 

Extract  of  Lemon. — Use  the  yellow  only  of  the  peel ;  if  any 
of  the  white  is  used  the  extract  will  be  bitter.  To  a  dozen  lemons, 
juice  and  peel,  allow  one  quart  of  the  best  brandy  and  four  pounds  of 
sugar. 

Extract  of  Lemon  Peel. — Grate  carefully  the  thin  yellow  rind  of 
two  dozen  lemons,  pour  over  it  one  quart  of  deodorized  pure  spirits, 
and  cork  tight.    Strain  it  as  needed. 

Orange  Peel  Extract. — Bub  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar  on  two 
dozen  oranges,  so  as  to  extract  all  the  oil ;  wet  the  sugar  with  one 
quart  of  the  best  pure  deodorized  spirits,  and  cork  tight. 

Extract  of  Celery  Seed. — To  an  ounce  of  celery  seed  put 
a  pint  of  deodorized  spirits,  and  cork  tightly ;  shake  the  bottle  fre- 
quently. 

Extract  of  Sage. — Take  a  gallon  bottle,  fill  it  two-thirds  full  of 
sage  wilted  in  the  sun ;  press  it  tight,  and  fill  the  bottle  with  pure 
deodorized  spirits ;  use  the  extract  infllace  of  the  dried  sage. 

Lemonade. — Bub  some  of  the  sugar  on  the  peel  of  the  lemon  to 
extract  the  oil ;  roll  the  lemons  under  the  hand  on  the  table,  and 
press  out  all  the  juice  ;  add  to  every  lemon  two  heaping  table-spoons 
of  loaf-sugar ;  mix  it  thoroughly  with  the  lemon ;  fill  the  pitcher  one- 
quarter  full  of  broken  ice,  and  add  water. 

Orangeade  is  made  as  above  with  less  sugar.  Oranges  and 
lemons  mixed  make  a  fine  ade. 


CORDIALS    AND    EXTRACTS.  285 

Pineappleade. — Cut  the  pineapple  fine,  and  mix  the  fruit  with  sugar 
and  ice  and  water.     Orange,  lemon,  and  pineapple  mixed  are  fine. 

Currantade. — Take  a  goblet  one-quarter  full  of  currant  juice ; 
add  sugar  and  a  table-spoonful  of  pounded  ice,  and  fill  with  cold 
water. 

Strawberryade. — Mash  strawberries,  sweeten  to  taste ;  fill  the 
glass  half-full  of  pounded  ice,  and  fill  up  with  the  sweetened  juice. 
The  two  above  are  very  nice  for  invalids,  and  can  be  made  of  the 
syrups,  though  the  fresh  fruit  is  better. 

Raspberry  Vinegar  for  a  Beverage. — Pour  one  quart  of  wine 
vinegar  over  three  quarts  of  raspberries ;  let  it  stand  one  day ;  press  out 
the  liquid,  and  continue  the  same  operation  for  three  days,  and  then 
bottle  the  liquid.    Use  it  in  ice  water,  with  or  without  sugar. 

To  Mull  "Wine. — Boil  any  spices  in  very  little  water,  strain,  and 
to  half  a  pint  of  spiced  water  add  one  pint  of  wine,  with  sugar  to 
taste.  Serve  hot  with  slices  of  toasted  bread ;  add  lemon  or  orange  if 
desirable. 

Egg  Fog. — Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs  separately ;  add 
to  the  yolks  sugar,  a  quart  of  new  milk  or  thin  sweet  cream,  and 
half  a  pint  of  French  brandy ;  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
and  stir  them  through  the  nog. 

Sangaree. — Take  half  Madeira  wine  and  half  water,  and  the  juice 
of  a  lemon. 

English  Milk  Punch. — Add  boiling  milk  to  lemonade;  strain, 
and  add  brandy  and  spices. 

Common  Milk  Punch. — Beat  an  egg  light,  mix  it  in  milk,  and  add 
brandy  and  nutmeg. 

Mississippi  Traveller. — Squeeze  half  a  lemon  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  loaf-sugar ;  add  one  fresh  egg,  and  wine  to  double  the  quan- 
tity ;  then  add  two  table-spoons  of  water  and  sufficient  ice  broken 
the  size  of  a  small  hickory  nut  to  fill  the  tumbler ;  put  over  the  tum- 
bler a  tin  lemonade  mixer,  which  is  a  tin  tumbler  holding  about  a 
,  pint,  shake  the  mixture  briskly  until  the  egg  is  cut  and  in  a  perfect 
froth.  The  best  wine  for  this  is  pure  port,  though  currant  and  other 
domestic  wines  do  very  well  as  a  substitute. 


PART  VII. 


CATSTTPS,  SALADS,  FLAVORED  VINEGARS,  PICKLES,  ANfc 
MANGOES. 


CHAPTEE  I, 

CATSUPS. 


Mushkoom  Catsup. — Put  layers  of  mushroom  and  salt  in  an 
earthen  dish,  or  if  a  large  quantity  of  the  catsup  is  to  be  made,  in  a 
cask ;  let  them  lie  three  hours,  by  which  time  the  salt  will  have 
penetrated  the  mushrooms ;  then  bruise  them  in  a  mortar  or  in  some 
other  efficient  manner,  and  let  them  remain  three  days,  stirring 
them  from  the  bottom  three  times  each  day ;  then  put  them  in  a  jar, 
and  add  a  few  peppercorns,  cloves,  and  allspice.  Set  the  jar  in  cold 
wafer,  bring  it  to  boiling  heat,  and  boil  gently  one  hour ;  after  which 
drain  off  the  juice  without  pressure,  and  boil  gently  until  it  is  re- 
duced one-half,  skimming  it  as  it  boils.  When  sufficiently  reduced 
pour  it  in  a  crock,  let  it  stand  a  day  to  settle,  and  strain  it  through  a 
thick  cloth,  without  disturbing  the  sediment  at  the  bottom ;  bottle  in 
half-pint  bottles ;  add  to  each  bottle  one  teaspoon  of  brandy  and  cork 
tight.     If  it  moulds  it  must  be  boiled  again. 

"Walnut  Catsup,  No.  1. — Bruise  green  walnuts,  and  press  out  the 
juice  of  the  nut ;  boil  the  juice  until  half  reduced ;  add  a  little  essence 
of  anchovy,  mace,  cloves,  and  pepper,  without  grinding,  in  equal 
parts,  a  clove  of  garlic,  and  a  little  salt ;  let  the  catsup  and  spices 
simmer  together  until  the  liquor  measures  one-third  of  the  original 


catsups.  287 

amount ;  strain  out  all  the  spices ;  add  half  as  much  of  the  very  best 
wine  vinegar  as  the  liquor  measures ;  let  it  stand  in  an  earthen  jar 
until  it  settles,  then  filter  it  until  clear ;  bottle  and  seal  tight. 

Walnut  Catsup,  No.  2. — Bruise  the  nuts,  press  out  the  juice ; 
add  to  a  gallon  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  and  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves ;  put  the  spices  in  a  bag  without  rolling 
or  grinding ;  boil  until  the  liquor  is  half  reduced ;  pour  it  in  a  jar ; 
add  a  little  salt;  let  it  settle  two  days,  and  filter  until  clear; 
bottle  in  pints  or  half-pints,  and  seal  the  corks.  It  is  better  two 
years  old. 

Oystee  Catsup. — Pound  fine  fresh  oysters  in  a  mortar  with  a  few 
cloves,  mace,  salt,  and  Cayenne ;  pass  them  through  a  sieve,  and  thin 
with  strong  vinegar  poured  over  boiling  hot ;  bottle  and  seal  tightly. 
In  this  catsup  the  cloves  must  be  barely  perceived ;  if  too  strong  the 
other  spices  will  be  lost. 

Catsup  foe  Mutton  Chops. — Three  teaspoons  of  black  pepper, 
three  of  mustard,  one  of  allspice,  three  of  salt,  mix  the  spices  with 
two  quarts  of  grated  horseradish,  half  an  onion  or  not,  as  desired ; 
beat  the  ingredients  together  quickly;  strain  the  liquor  from  the 
radish,  add  one-quarter  as  much  ten  per  cent,  vinegar  as  there  is 
liquid ;  bottle  in  half- pint  bottles,  and  cork  immediately. 

Celeet  Catsup. — Mix  an  ounce  of  celery  seed  ground,  with  a 
teaspoon  of  ground  white  pepper ;  bruise  half  a  dozen  oysters  with  a 
teaspoon  of  salt ;  mix  and  pass  the  whole  through  a  sieve ;  pour  over 
the  mixture  one  quart  of  the  best  white  wine  vinegar ;  bottle  and 
seal  tight. 

Peach  Catsup. — Boil  ripe  peaches  over  steam  with  the  pits; 
press  out  all  the  juice ;  to  every  quart  allow  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar ; 
boil  without  the  sugar  until  it  is  reduced  one-third ;  add  to  each 
quart  of  juice  before  boiling  a  teaspoon  of  broken,  not  ground,  mace, 
two  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoon  of  cloves,  and  one  of  peppercorns ; 
boil  all  together;  when  half  reduced  remove  the  spices,  add  the 
sugar,  boil  until  quite  thick,'  and  reduce  to  a  convenient  consistency 
for  bottling  with  strong  vinegar. 

Plum  Catsup. — Boil  whole  plums  over  steam ;  press  out  the 
juice ;  pass  the  pulp  through  the  sieve ;  boil  in  a  quart  of  the  juice  a 


288  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

teaspoon  of  broken  cinnamon,  one  of  mace,  and  half  as  much  of 
cloves  and  pepper  until  reduced  half;  add  this  to  the  pulp,  with  two 
pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  and  heat  it,  stirring  constantly ;  when  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  reduce  the  catsup  with  one  quart  of  ten  per  cent,  vinegar. 

Cheery  Catsup. — To  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  one  pound  of 
coffee  sugar ;  boil  the  fruit  and  sugar  together,  drain  off  the  syrup, 
and  to  every  quart  add  a  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one  of  mace,  two  of 
cinnamon,  one  of  ginger,  and  half  a  teaspoon  of  cloves ;  boil  until  the 
syrup  is  highly  flavored ;  pass  the  fruit  through  a  sieve,  strain  the 
syrup,  add  it  to  the  pulp ;  boil  all  together  until  of  the  consistency  of 
very  thick  molasses ;  thin  with  ten  per  cent,  vinegar  until  it  is  only 
of  the  consistency  of  common  catsup.  Bottle  while  hot  and  seal  im- 
mediately. 

Gooseberry  Catsup. — Pick  clean  ripe  gooseberries,  allow  a  pint 
of  water  for  two  quarts  of  fruit ;  boil  it  until  the  fruit  is  quite  tender ; 
then  add  a  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  of  mace,  half  as  much 
pepper,  and  the  same  of  cloves ;  stir  the  spices  in  the  fruit ;  let  it 
simmer  a  few  moments,  and  press  out  all  the  juice ;  add  to  each 
quart  one  pound  of  sugar ;  reduce  until  the  syrup  is  near  to  becoming 
a  jelly,  and  then  thin  with  the  best  vinegar  until  of  the  consistency  of 
molasses.    Bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

Grape  Catsup. — Boil  grapes  over  water ;  to  each  quart  allow  a 
teaspoon  of  broken  cinnamon,  one  of  mace,  one  half-teaspoon  of 
cloves  ;  simmer  over  water  one  hour ;  strain,  and  add  to  every  quart 
one  pound  of  sugar ;  reduce  nearly  to  jelly,  and  add  wine  or  vinegar 
to  thin  it  to  the  proper  consistency. 

Blackberry  Catsup. — Cover  the  fruit  with  boiling  water ;  press 
out  the  liquor,  add  whole  pepper,  mace,  cinnamon,  white  mustard, 
each  one  teaspoonful  for  every  two  quarts ;  reduce  by  boiling  one 
quarter ;  strain  and  boil  until  very  thick,  and  reduce  with  vinegar  of 
the  best  quality.    Bottle  hot  and  seal  immediately. 

Raspberry  Catsup. — Boil  one  gallon  of  the  fruit  in  one  quart  of 
vinegar ;  strain,  and  add  mace,  cinnamon,  mustard,  and  ginger,  each 
half  a  teaspoonful  without  grinding ;  boil  half  an  hour  slowly ;  strain, 
and  measure  the  liquor ;  to  every  quart  add  one  pound  of  sugar ;  boil 
until  of  proper  consistency ;  if  not  sufficiently  acid,  add  citric  acid  dis» 
solved  in  very  little  vinegar. 


catsups.  289 

Whoetlebeeey  Catsup. — Add  to  every  gallon  of  fruit  two  quarts 
of  boiling  water ;  let  it  stand  all  night ;  in  the  morning  draw  off  the 
juice ;  pass  the  pulp  through  a  sieve ;  add  to  each  gallon  of  the 
liquor  a  teaspoonful  of  each  of  the  following  spices  :  mace,  cinnamon, 
white  mustard,  ginger,  pepper;  boil  one  hour  gently;  strain  off  the 
liquor ;  add  to  every  quart  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  stir  in  the  pulp, 
and  boil  it  in  the  spiced  juice ;  dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  the  citric  acid 
in  a  little  of  the  juice  reserved  for  the  purpose  ;  add  it  to  the  catsup, 
and  if  too  thick  thin  with  vinegar  or  wine. 

Cucumber  Catsup. — Grate  large  cucumbers  before  they  begin  to 
turn  yellow ;  drain  oat  the  juice  and  put  the  pulp  through  a  sieve  to 
remove  the  large  seeds ;  fill  a  bottle  half-full  of  the  pulp,  discarding  the 
juice,  and  add  the  same  quantity  of  ten  per  cent,  vinegar ;  cork  tightly ; 
when  used,  add  pepper  and  salt ;  salt  kills  the  vinegar  if  put  in  when 
made.    This  is  almost  like  a  fresh-sliced  cucumber  when  opened  for  use. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Select  tomatoes  not  overripe,  skin  and  strain 
the  tomatoes ;  to  every  gallon  add  three  table-spoons  of  salt,  three  of 
ground  black  pepper,  three  of  mustard,  and  one  teaspoon  of  ground 
allspice ;  mix  the  spices  in  a  part  of  the  tomato,  and  strain  them 
through  a  sieve ;  put  in  a  small  bag  four  large  pods  of  sweet  peppers, 
andpif  relished,  one  onion,  and  boil  them  with  the  catsup  while  it  is 
being  reduced ;  add  the  expressed  juice  of  one  quart  of  horseradish, 
and  reduce  it  until  it  is  of  the  proper  consistency  to  pour  from  the 
bottles  without  difficulty ;  let  the  catsup  remain  in  the  bottles,  with 
a  piece  of  cotton  cloth  tied  loosely  on  the  neck,  for  three  months  to 
ripen,  when  cork  and  seal  tightly. 


CHAPTER    II. 

SALADS. 

To  Deess  Lettuce. — Bring  in  a  head  or  more  of  lettuce  one  hour 
before  dinner ;  lay  it  in  cold  water  ;  look  it  over  carefully,  and  lay 
the  leaves,  one  by  one,  around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  leaving  the  heart 
in  the  centre.     {See  Part  III.,  Chap.  VII.) 

Salad  of  Lettuce,  ISTo.  1. — Select  lettuce;  examine  each  leaf 
carefully ;  chop  very  slightly ;  boil  four  eggs  hard ;  slice  them ;  lay 

13 


290  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

them  around  the  plate ;  dust  over  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dust  of  mus- 
tard ;  and  pour  over  the  whole,  cold  vinegar. 

Salad  of  Lettuce,  No.  2. — Look  over  lettuce  very  carefully ; 
chop  it  sufficiently  fine-  to  eat  at  table  without  cutting  with  the  knife ; 
prepare  a  dressing  -with  egg,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard 
worked  to  a  paste;  add  vinegar,  and  pour  the  dressing  over  the 
lettuce. 

Salad  of  "Wilted  Lettuce,  No.  3. — Having  examined  the  lettuce 
leaf  by  leaf,  chop  it  fine ;  heat  sufficient  vinegar  boiling  hot  to  cover 
the  salad,  beat  up  two  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  them  in  the  vinegar  ; 
when  it  is  nearly  boiling  hot,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  and  mixed  mustard,  and  pour  it  over  the  lettuce. 

Lettuce  with  Fine  Egg  Salad,  No.  4. — Beat  up  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  very  light ;  mix  in  a  table-spoon  of  cold,  butter,  a  teaspoon  of 
mustard,  half  as  much  black  pepper,  and  the  same  of  salt ;  beat  the 
eggs  and  other  ingredients  together.  Heat  nearly  boiling  hot  a  half 
pint  of  strong  vinegar,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  thicken  it  with 
the  egg,  butter,  and  spices ;  if  not  hot  enough  to  thicken  by  the  par- 
tial cooking  of  the  egg,  heat  it,  beating  it  constantly  while  heating ; 
when  a  little  thickened,  cool  it  quickly,  or  it  will  be  either  too^hick 
or  curdle ;  if  too  thick,  thin  with  vinegar.  Having  looked  over  the 
lettuce,  chop  it  slightly,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  salad  cold. 

Common  Salad  Dressing,  No.  1. — Boil  eggs  hard,  peel  them,  and 
while  hot  add  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  mustard,  work  these  ingredien.ts 
well  together,  and  then  add  vinegar. 

Chicken  Salad,  No.  2. — Boil  tender  two  good-sized  chickens,  skin 
and  pick  them  free  from  bones,  using  only  the  white  meat.  Boil  nine 
eggs  one  hour,  and  work  them  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  add  half  a  pint  of  melted  butter,  and  work  into  the  egg  and 
butter  mustard,  salt,  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste ;  it  should  be  highly 
seasoned ;  mix  the  ingredients  well,  and  add  a  small  teacup  of  grated 
horseradish,  and  one  pint  of  strong  vinegar.  Chop  fine  half  a  head  of 
cabbage  and  as  much  blanched  celery ;  mix  the  chicken,  cabbage,  and 
celery  together,  and  just  before  serving  add  the  sauce.  If  celery  can 
be  had  in  abundance  use  no  cabbage ;  if  celery  cannot  be  obtained, 
use  cabbage,  with  extract  of  celery.  If  neither  cabbage  nor  celery  i» 
in  season,  use  blanched  lettuce.     (See  Part  III.,  Chap.  VII.) 


SALADS.  291 

Chicken  Salad,  No.  1,  under  the  head  of  celery. 

A  yeet  fine  Salad  Sauce,  No.  2. — Pass  through  a  sieve  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  sweet  oil,  or  melted  butter,  work  the  butter  and  egg  to  a  paste, 
add  a  teaspoon  of  made  mustard,  and  half  as  much  salt,  and  pepper ; 
work  these  ingredients  well  together,  and  add  gradually  three  table- 
spoons of  strong  vinegar.  Mince  lettuce,  and  just  before  serving,  mix 
with  it  lobster,  chicken,  the  white  meat  of  veal,  or  any  cold  fowl,  and 
add  the  sauce. 

Salad  Dressing  without  Eggs,  No.  3.— Take  one  part  fresh  salad 
oil  and  two  parts  strong  vinegar,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  mustard ;  send 
it  to  the  table  in  a  boat,  with  the  leaves  of  the  salad  nicely  washed, 
slightly  chopped  or  not,  as  desired. 

Sweet  Salad  Sauce,  No.  4. — To  one  pint  of  strong  vinegar,  add 
one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  pour  it  over  the  lettuce  cold,  after 
it  is  on  the  table.  % 

Lobster  Salad. — Abstract  all  the  meat  from  the  body  and  claws 
of  a  well-boiled  lobster,  cut  it  fine,  and  mash  the  coral  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Wash  the  blanched  part  of  a  head  of  lettuce,  chop  it  fine,  and 
mix  it  with  the  lobster.  To  make  the  sauce :  take  a  pinch  of  salt,  half 
as  much  Cayenne,  a  teaspoon  of  French  mustard,  four  large  table- 
spoons of  fresh  salad  oil,  and  four  table-spoons  of  the  strongest  vin- 
egar ;  have  ready  the  yolks  of  three  boiled  eggs,  mash  them  to  a 
paste,  and  mix  them  and  the  coral  in  the  sauce  ;  the  sauce  should  be 
added  to  the  salad  just  before  serving. 

Horseradish. — Wash  the  roots,  and  scrape  them  free  from  the 
outside  skin,  grate  them  finely,  and  mix  it  with  strong  vinegar,  and 
add  to  one  pint  of  the  grated  horseradish,  a  teaspoon  of  loaf-sugar. 

To  Mix  Mustard. — One  table-spoonful  of  best  mustard,  a  salt- 
spoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  water  enough  to  make  a 
paste ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cook  and 
stiffen  the  mustard ;  work  well,  and  add  hot  water,  until  it  is  of  the 
proper  consistency. 

Cucumbers  for  the  Aged. — Peel  nice  young  cucumbers,  chop  or 
grate  them  as  fine  as  possible,  saving  all  the  liquor  of  the  vegetable ; 
chop  two  small  onions  fine,  and  mix  them  with  the  cucumbers ;  add 
strong  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt ;  this  salad  should  be  served  as  soon 


292  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

as    prepared,   as-  the  cucumbers  soon  wilt.      The  onions    can    bo 
omitted. 

Cabbages  and  Cucumbers. — Chop  cabbage  very  fine,  add  to  one 
quart  of  the  chopped  cabbage,  a  teacup  of  chopped  encumber,  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  aud  vinegar ;  this,  when  cucumbers  are  high,  will 
be  found  a  good  substitute.  It  can  be  made  during  the  winter  with 
vinegar  of  cucumbers,  or  cucumber  catsup ;  onions  can  be  added,  if 
relished ;  some  persons  who  cannot  eat  cucumbers,  will  relish  this 
salad. 

Kadishes  for  the  Aged. — Peel  tender  radishes,  grate  them,  add 
salt,  and  vinegar  if  desired.  This  manner  of  preparing  radishes  is 
more  healthy  for  all ;  especially  for  persons  who  have  poor  teeth,  and 
children  who  do  not  take  time  to  masticate  their  food.  Winter  rad- 
ishes grate  nicely,  and  will  be  found  a  fine  relish,  when  fresh  salads 
cannot  be  obtained.     (See  Part  III.,  Chap.  VII.) 

Celery  for  the  Aged. — Take  the  blanched  celery,  cut  it  as  fine 
as  possible,  add  salt,  and  send  it  to  the  table,  where  vinegar  and  egg 
can  be  added,  if  desired.  This  salad  should  be  served  as  soon  as  pre- 
pared, as  it  will  be  apt  to  turn  brown ;  ornament  the  dish  with 
green  celery  leaves.  Onions  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner, 
and  will  make  a  fine  salad,  for  those  who  relish  them. 

Tomato  Chowder. — Four  quarts  of  finely  chopped  green  tomatoes, 
press  the  juice  from  the  tomatoes,  scald  them  in  vinegar,  but  do  not 
heat  boiling  hot,  drain  off  all  the  vinegar,  add  three  pods  of  large  green 
peppers,  and  three  onions  Chopped  fine,  one  quart  of  grated  horseradish, 
one-fourth  of  a  box  of  mustard,  black  pepper  the  same,  salt  to  the  taste  ; 
cover  with  the  best  of  vinegar,  press  it  firmly,  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place ;  the  vinegar  should  completely  cover  the  chowder,  the  onions  can 
be  omitted,  adding  more  horseradish.  It  can  be  varied  by  adding 
chopped  cucumbers  to  the  tomatoes. 


CHAPTER    III. 

FLAVORED    VINEGARS. 

Celery  Vinegar. — Obtain  ten  per  cent,  vinegar ;  put  into  a  mus- 
lin bag  four  ounces  of  celery  seed,  put  the  bag  in  a  wide-mouthed 
bottle,  holding  three  or  four  quarts,  fill  with  the  extra  strong  vin- 


FLAVORED  VINEGARS.  293 

egar,  and  cork  tight ;  set  the  bottle  in  cold  water,  heat  it  to  boiling 
heat,  take  it  from  the  bath,  cork  tightly,  ^nd  set  it  in  a  cool  place ; 
this  will  be  found  a  good  substitute  for  celery,  in  all  salads  where  this 
flavor  is  required. 

Vinegar  of  Mustard. — Boil  black  mustard  seed  in  strong  vinegar 
until  it  is  highly  impregnated,  then  strain  clear,  and  bottle  for  use ; 
use  it  in  salad  sauces,  which  are  to  be  made  without  thickening. 

Vinegar  of  Nasturtiums. — Pick  young  nasturtium  seeds,  and  put 
them  in  vinegar ;  when  all  the  strength  is  extracted,  throw  out  the 
seeds,  and  add  more  until  the  vinegar  is  very  strongly  flavored. 

Vinegar  of  Cucumbers.— Chop  cucumbers^our  over  them  cold 
vinegar  very  strong;  as  fast  as  the  strength  of  the  cucumbers  is  ex- 
tracted, add  more  ;  the  vinegar  should  be  ten  per  cent.  If  the  vine- 
gar is  not  strong,  it  will  become  too  much  reduced  by  the  juice  of  the 
fruit ;  when  it  is  sufficiently  strong,  it  should  be  equal,  after  it  is 
flavored,  to  four  per  cent,  vinegar,  which  is  as  strong  as  the  common 
vinegar  of  the  shops. 

Peach  Vinegar. — Blanch,  by  putting  them  in  boiling  water,  one 
pint  of  peach  pits ;  pour  over  them  cold  vinegar,  as  strong  as  can  be 
obtained,  and  cork  tightly. 

Onion  Vinegar. — Take  onions,  or  cloves  of  garlic,  and  put  them 
in  strong  vinegar ;  it  will  take  but  a  few  drops  to  flavor  salads. 

Chili  Vinegar. — Infuse  fifty  small  ripe  Cayenne  peppers,  chopped 
fine,  in  a  quart  of  ten  per  cent,  vinegar,  for  two  weeks ;  when  it  will 
be  ready  to  strain,  and  bottle. 

Basil  Vinegar. — Infuse  basil  leaves  in  best  wine  vinegar ;  when 
it  has  steeped  two  weeks,  drain  it  off,  press  the  basil,  and  add  fresh 
leaves ;  continue  to  do  this  until  the  vinegar  has  the  desired  flavor, 
when  cork  and  wire  down. 

Garlio  Vinegar. — Take  one  quart  of  white  wine  vinegar,  the 
juice  of  four  lemons,  six  cloves  of  garlic,  six  cloves,  half  a  nutmeg, 
and  a  few  basil  leaves  ;  set  the  bottle  in  cold  water,  and  heat  it  to  boil- 
ing heat,  cork  tight,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  weeks ;  then  strain  and 
cork  tightly.  It  will  take  but  two  or  three  drops  to  add  the  flavor  to 
soups,  or  sauces  if  desired.  If  the  flavor  of  garlic  is  fairly  discerned, 
it  is  disagreeable. 


294  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Eschalot  Vinegar. — Chop  eschalots,  and  to  one  quart  of  ten  per 
cent,  vinegar,  put  four  ounces  of  eschalots ;  shake  often  for  two  weeks, 
then  drain  off,  bottle  and  cork  tight. 

Tarragon  Vinegar. — Fill  a  large  wide-mouthed  bottle  with  fresh 
tarragon  leaves,  picked  from  the  stalk  before  the  plant  flowers ;  steep 
them  in  strong  vinegar  for  fourteen  days,  or  longer  if  convenient ; 
strain  clear ;  fill  half-pint  bottles  with  the  vinegar,  and  cork  tightly ; 
this  is  used  to  flavor  mustard  and  salads. 

Vinegar  of  Marjoram. — Pick  sweet  marjoram  leaves  before  the 
plant  flowers ;  wilt  them  a  little,  and  steep  them  in  strong  vinegar  for 
two  weeks,  then  bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

Savory  Vinegar. — Steep  summer  savory  in  strong  vinegar ;  when 
the  vinegar  is  highly  impregnated,  strain,  bottle,  and  cork. 

Borage  Vinegar. — Pick  the  flowers  of  borage ;  put  them  in  a 
wide-mouthed  jar,  fill  with  strong  vinegar,  let  them  steep  for  three 
weeks,  then  strain,  bottle,  and  cork.  The  flavor  is  somewhat  like 
cucumbers. 

Burnet  Vinegar. — Pick  the  leaves  before  it  flowers,  pack  them 
in  jars,  and  pour  over  them  strong  vinegar,  and  steep  one  month ; 
then  strain  off  and  cork. 

Cinnamon  Vinegar. — Bruise  cassia  buds  and  steep  them  in  vin- 
egar ;  let  the  buds  remain,  and  strain  the  vinegar  when  wanted,  as 
the  strength  of  the  buds  is  long  in  extracting. 

Clove  Vinegar. — Bruise  two  ounces  of  cloves,  add  one  pint  of 
strong  vinegar,  let  it  steep  six  weeks,  then  filter  until  clear,  bottle  in 
half -pint  bottles,  and  cork  tightly. 

Cherry  Vinegar. — Pick  morello  cherries  free  from  stems,  bruise 
them,  and  to  one  quart  of  fruit  put  two  quarts  of  strong  vinegar ;  let 
them  steep  one  month,  then  strain  and  bottle. 

Oyster  Vinegar. — Boil  oysters  in  strong  vinegar,  until  the  vin- 
egar is  highly  flavored;  add  clove,  mace,  and  pepper,  to  suit  the 
taste,  then  strain  and  bottle. 

t  Vinegar  of  Walnuts.— Bruise  butternuts  when  not  larger  than 
a  small  hickory-nut,  steep  them  in  strong  vinegar  for  two  weeks, 


FLAVORED    VINEGARS.  295 

after  which  strain  and  bottle.    It  can  be  flavored  with  spices,  or  not, 
as  desired,  and  is  used  to  flavor  fish  sauces. 

Horseradish  Vinegar. — Make  this  in  the  spring;  to  one  quart 
of  grated  horseradish  add  one  quart  of  strong  vinegar,  press  the  liquor 
out  as  soon  as  possible,  bottle,  cork,  and  seal  immediately.  This 
must  be  made  as  speedily  as  possible,  or  the  flavor  will  escape  before 
bottling ;  use  one  ounce  bottles,  as  it  will  become  tasteless  if  open 
one  day. 

Vinegar  op  Ginger. — Steep  four  ounces  of  crushed  white  ginger 
in  two  quarts  of  the  strongest  vinegar  for  two  months ;  strain  until 
quite  clear,  bottle,  and  cork  tight. 

Vinegar  of  Mace. — To  one  quart  of  the  best  white-^vine  vinegar 
put  one  ounce  of  rolled  mace,  cork  the  bottle,  set  it  in  cold  water,  and 
heat  until  it  is  nearly  boiling  hot,  let  it  steep  for  four  weeks  before 
straining,  or  longer  if  convenient,  then  bottle  and  cork  tightly. 

Vinegar  for  SorsE. — Steep  black  peppercorns  and  white  mustard 
seed  in  strong  vinegar  for  four  weeks,  strain,  and  pour  it  over  the  souse 
after  it  is  boiled  tender. 

Vinegar  for  Soused  Fish. — Steep  in  strong  vinegar  a  few  cloves, 
more  peppercorns,  mustard  seed,  and  young  walnuts  bruised,  until 
the  vinegar  is  highly  spiced  ;  then  strain,  and  cover  the  fish  with  the 
spiced  vinegar ;  the  fish  must  be  boiled  before  it  is  soused. 

Wormwood  Vinegar. — Bruise  green  wormwood;  to  one  pound 
add  one  quart  of  strong  vinegar,  steep  the  wormwood  and  vinegar 
together,  by  setting  the  bottle  in  cold  water,  and  heating  to  boiling 
heat ;  let  the  wormwood  and  vinegar  remain  together  for  two  weeks, 
then  strain,  press  out  all  the  juice,  and  bottle.  This  is  excellent  for 
all  sprains,  and  ought  to  be  ready  to  use  at  any  time. 

Hop  Vinegar. — Steep  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ripe,  but  not  dry- 
hops  in  one  quart  of  strong  vinegar,  let  it  steep  two  weeks,  and  then 
press  out  the  liquor ;  keep  it  for  colds,  quinsy,  and  throat  troubles. 


296  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

CHAPTER    IV. 

PICKLES    AND    MANGOES. 

Kemarks  on  Pickling. — In  the  first  place,  be  quite  sure  that  the 
salt  of  which  the  brines  are  made  is  pure  ;  much  of  the  common  bar- 
relled salt  is  mixed  with  lime,  in  which  case  it  will  neither  preserve 
meat  nor  vegetables.  The  object  of  using  salt  on  vegetables  is  to  re- 
duce their  fluids ;  if  cucumbers  are  put  in  common  strength  vinegar 
when  fresh  picked,  their  natural  fluid  will  reduce  the  vinegar  so 
much,  that  there  will  not  be  suflicient  strength  left  to  preserve  the 
pickles.  Vinegar  must  be  of  proper  strength  ;  if  too  strong,  it  will 
eat  the  pickles ;  if  not  of  suflicient  strength,  mould  will  form,  and 
the  pickles  become  soft  and  worthless.  It  is  of  no  use  to  scald  vine- 
gar that  moulds.  It  is  want  of  strength  that  produces  it ;  either  add 
ten  per  cent,  vinegar,  until  the  percentage  of  the  vinegar  is  raised 
to  four  per  cent.,  or  throw  it  away,  and  put  fresh  vinegar  to  the 
pickles.  There  is  no  better  vinegar  to  be  obtained  for  pickles  than  pure 
distilled  high  wine  vinegar ;  this  can  be  bought  of  the  maker  from  ten 
to  four  per  cent. ;  four  per  cent,  is  the  proper  strength  for  preserving 
cucumber  pickles.  Onions  and  mixed  pickles  require  it  much 
stronger.  The  strength  of  vinegar  can  be  ascertained  by  the  use  of 
a  glass  tube  called  by  vinegar  makers  Acetometer ;  the  proper  name 
for  it  is  Acet-meter.  The  tincture  of  litmus  is  first  put  into  the  tube, 
then  vinegar,  and  afterwards  ammonia.  It  is  impossible  to  give  an 
idea  of  the  instrument,  but  every  housekeeper  who  makes  her  own 
pickles  should  possess  one.  They  cost  from  three  to  twelve  dollars ; 
our  own  cost  but  three,  and  is  in  every  respect  equal  to  the  high- 
price  tubes.  To  ascertain  the  percentage  of  vinegar,  pour  into  the 
tube  the  tincture  of  litmus,  until  it  reaches  the  first  mark  on  the 
scale ;  add  vinegar  to  reach  the  third  mark,  turn  the  tube  up  and 
down,  pressing  your  thumb  on  the  mouth  until  the  liquid  turns  red ; 
then  add  ammonia  until  the  vinegar  has  turned  blue,  which  will  give 
the  percentage  of  the  vinegar.  "When  buying  the  tube,  get  direc- 
tions of  a  chemist  in  regard  to  the  proper  strength  of  the  ammonia. 
The  measuring  must  be  done  with  great  accuracy,  as  half  a  drop 
makes  a  difference  in  the  percentage.  This  is  the  only  instrument 
that  can  be  depended  upon,  to  ascertain  to  a  certainty  the  amount  of 
acetic  acid  in  vinegar,  and  without  this  knowledge  of  the  strength  of 
vinegar,  housekeepers  are  liable  to  fail  in  their  pickling. 


PICKLES    AND    MANGOES.  297 

To  Pickle  Cucumbees. — Out  the  cucumbers  from  the  vines  with- 
out bruising  the  stems ;  lay  them  carefully  in  a  basket ;  take  them  to 
the  cellar ;  sort  and  pack  them  in  barrels,  putting  different  sizes  in 
separate  barrels,  spread  a  layer  of  salt  between  each  layer  of  cucum- 
bers ;  there  should  be  sufficient  salt  to  entirely  cover  the  pickles  be- 
tween the  layers.  Continue  to  pack  the  cucumbers  daily  as  they  are 
picked,  never  using  any  but  fine  cucumbers,  discarding  all  that  are 
crooked  or  of  slow  growth.  Keep  boards  over  the  pickles,  and  weight 
to  press  them  under  the  brine,  which  will  be  formed  without  the 
addition  of  water,  with  the  juice  extracted  from  the  fruit  by  the  salt. 
Pickles  packed  in  this  manner  may  be  preserved  for  years,  if  there 
are  no  impurities  in  the  salt ;  but  if  the  salt  is  mixed  with  lime,  they 
will  soon  soften  and  spoil.  In  two  months  after  the  barrel  is  filled, 
take  them  from  the  brine,  freshen  and  green.  To  green  cucumbers, 
prepare  alum- water ;  put  the  pickles  in  a  vat  or  boiler,  lined  with 
tinned  copper ;  heat  the  alum-water,  and  pour  it  over  the  pickles. 
This  is  the  process  which  is  usually  employed  by  pickle-makers, 
except  that  they  throw  steam  into  the  vats  to  heat  the  alum-water, 
and  if  managed  properly  the  pickles  may  be  greened  with  less  action 
of  copper  than  when  scalded  in  the  usual  method  in  bright  brass 
kettles.  Take  the  pickles  from  the  vat  when  a  little  green,  and  pour 
over  them  water  boiling  hot.  If  not  greened  sufficiently,  repeat  the 
hot  water  until  they  are  the  desired  color,  and  when  cold,  put  them 
in  four  per  cent  vinegar,  let  them  remain  until  quite  soured ;  then 
change  to  fresh  vinegar,  of  four  and  a  half  per  cent.,  which  will  keep 
the  pickles  hard  and  sour ;  add  to  a  barrel  six  large  peppers,  without 
bruising,  and  keep  the  pickles  under  the  vinegar  with  weights. 

Gheekins,  oe  Peickly  Cucumbees. — Pick  the  gherkins  when  from 
half  to  two-thirds  grown.  Put  them  in  strong  brine  in  which  a  little 
alum  has  been  dissolved ;  keep  the  pickles  under  the  brine  with 
weights ;  let  them  remain  in  the  salted  water  three  days ;  then  take 
them  out,  and  green  them  by  covering  with  alum-water  in  a  brass 
kettle  half  a  day ;  then  take  them  from  the  kettle,  even  if  they  have 
not  greened,  pour  over  them  hot  water,  let  them  nearly  cool,  and  re- 
peat the  process  until  the  color  is  right.  It  takes  heat  to  bring  out 
the  color.  If  soaked  sufficiently  in  the  brass  to  green  without  heat, 
the  pickles  would  be  poisoned ;  but  in  pursuing  the  course  recom- 
mended in  this  chapter,  the  skin  is  slightly  acted  upon  by  the  metal,  • 
and  the  after  soaking  in  the  hot  water  removes  what  little  was  ab- 
sorbed of  the  acetate  of  copper  by  the  vegetable.  When  pickles  have 
13* 


298  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

a  clear  light  green  color,  they  have  absorbed  so  much  verdigris  as  to 
make  them  unhealthy ;  the  color  should  be  a  dark  green,  nearly  the 
color  of  grass.  When  the  gherkins  are  freshened,  and  greened,  put 
them  in  a  keg,  and  pour  over  them  hot  vinegar ;  put  a  weight  on 
them  to  keep  them  under  the  vinegar,  and  let  them  remain  until 
quite  sour,  then  add  fresh  vinegar.  If  to  be  spiced,  steep  spices  in 
the  first  vinegar,  but  put  none  in  the  second,  which  should  be  four 
per  cent.,  and  put  on  cold.  Unless  gherkins  are  pickled  when  prime, 
and  with  care,  they  wilt  and  become  flabby ;  unless  they  are  brittle, 
they  are  a  miserable  pickle.  Those  who  like  can  sugar  the  last 
vinegar. 

Spioed  Picexed  Cucumbers,  No.  1. — Cut  carefully  from  the  vines 
small  cucumbers  which  have  grown  fast,  and  are  neither  crooked  nor 
spotted.  Put  them  in  ajar,  and  pour  over  them  weak  salt  and  water. 
The  next  morning  heat  over  the  brine,  and  add  more  salt  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pounded  alum  to  every  gallon.  Let  the  cucumbers  re- 
main in  the  brine  one  week.  Heat  in  a  brass,  not  copper,  kettle, 
a  pail  of  water  in  which  is  dissolved  a  piece  of  alum  as  large  as  a 
butternut ;  heat  the  alum-water  to  boiling  heat,  put  the  cucumbers  in 
the  kettle,  let  them  lie  one  hour  ■  then  pour  over  them  boiling  water 
three  successive  times,  letting  them  stand  each  time  sufficiently  long 
to  cool  the  water  to  blood  heat,  after  which  heat  vinegar  with  spices 
and  pour  it  over  the  cucumbers ;  let  them  stand  one  week.  Then 
cover  them  with  fresh  vinegar,  with  more  spices,  and  pour  over 
them  cold.  The  vinegar  for  spiced  pickles  should  be  full  five  per 
cent. 

Spiced  Cucumber  Pickles,  No.  2. — Having  salted  small  cucum- 
bers with  brine,  or  by  packing  in  salt,  cover  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
a  brass  kettle  with  leaves  from  a  grape  vine ;  put  a  layer  of  leaves 
and  a  layer  of  pickles  in  the  kettle  until  it  is  quite  full,  covering  over 
the  top  with  the  leaves ;  heat  to  boiling  a  pail  of  water,  dissolve  in 
the  water  two  table-spoons  of  alum,  pour  the  water  over  the  pickles, 
and  cover  tight,  and  let  them  remain  until  cold ;  if  not  sufficiently 
greened,  drain  off  the  water  without  disturbing  the  cucumbers,  heat 
the  water  again,  and  pour  it  over  the  pickles  ;  do  not  let  them  stand 
in  the  kettle  overnight,  to  become  impregnated  with  the  verdigris  of 
the  kettle ;  it  is  only  necessary  to  set  the  color  of  the  cucumber 
skins.  Take  out  the  cucumbers,  and  pour  over  them  three  times 
boiling  water ;  this  may  be  done  three  successive  days,  or  all  in  the 


PICKLES   AND    MANGOES.  299 

same  day,  as  convenient ;  then  pour  over  them  hot  vinegar,  and  leave 
them  one  week ;  then  change  the  vinegar,  and  scatter  in  the  keg  gin- 
ger root,  cloves,  cinnamon,  mustard,  horseradish  root,  nasturtium 
seeds,  and  one  pepper. 

An  Easy  Method  of  Preparing  Spiced  Pickles,  No.  3. — Take 
them  from  the  brine  when  sufficiently  salted,  put  them  in  a  brass 
kettle  with  a  table-spoonful  of  alum  to  a  pailful  of  water,  heat  them, 
stirring  frequently  until  the  water  is  too  hot  to  allow  the  cucumbers 
to  be  stirred  with  the  hand.  Let  them  cool  in  the  kettle,  and  while 
cooling  heat  in  a  wash-boiler  four  pails  of  water  to  boning  heat,  take 
the  boiler  from  the  fire,  and  put  the  cucumbers  in  a  tub ;  when  the 
water  has  cooled  ten  minutes,  pour  half  of  it  on  the  cucumbers,  stir 
them  round,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  the  remainder ;  cover  and  let 
them  cool  gradually.  The  next  day  taste  the  pickles ;  if  the  taste  of 
salt  is  perceived,  and  they  are  not  sufficiently  greened,  pour  over 
them  again  hot  water ;  but  if  greened  to  suit,  cover  with  cold  water 
and  repeat  the  operation  until  they  are  quite  fresh ;  then  scald  a  few 
spices  in  strong  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  pickles,  cover  tight,  and 
let  them  remain  two  weeks,  then  add  fresh  cold  vinegar,  with  more 
spices.  Pickles  to  spice  should  be  picked  quite  small.  The  smaller 
the  cucumbers,  the  sooner  will  they  green  and  freshen. 

To  Peepaee  Summer  Pickles. — Pick  very  small  cucumbers,  pour 
over  them  weak  hot  brine,  let  them  cool,  and  pour  over  them  hot 
vinegar  and  spices  to  the  taste,  they  will  be  fit  to  use  in  twenty-four 
hours ;  but  will  not  keep  long. 

Cucumbers  Pickled  in  Sugar. — Cut  very  small  young  cucumbers 
from  the  vines  without  bruising  the  spines  or  stem ;  put  them  in  a 
colander,  and  pour  water  gently  through  it  so  as  to  rinse  the  cucum- 
bers without  bruising  the  spines ;  place  in  the  bottom  of  the  keg  a 
thin  layer  of  cheap  sugar ;  that  left  in  the  bottom  of  molasses  hogs- 
heads, if  dried,  is  as  good  as  the  best ;  add  a  layer  of  cucumbers  and 
a  layer  of  sugar  until  the  keg  is  full,  putting  a  good  covering  of  sugar 
on  the  top  ;  put  a  board  and  weight  on  the  top  to  keep  the  cucum- 
bers under  the  liquid,  which  will  form  with  the  juice  of  the  fruit  and 
the  sugar.  There  should  be  as  much  sugar  used,  in  preserving  pickles 
in  this  manner,  as  there  is  salt  when  packing  in  salt.  The  juice  and 
sugar  ferment  and  form  a  vinegar  which  preserves  the  cucumbers 
beautifully,  and  leaves  them  a  good  color,  without  the  trouble  of  green- 


300         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

ing.     After  the  vinegar  is  well  formed,  and  the  encumbers  soured 
sufficiently,  spices  can  be  added  if  desirable. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles. — Freshen  and  green  pickles  as  already 
described,  then  cover  them  with  vinegar  in  which  sugar  is  dissolved, 
in  the  proportion  of  one  pound  to  the  gallon,  add  spices  or  not,  accord- 
ing to  the  taste. 

"Whiskey  Pickled  Cucumbers. — Select  the  cucumbers,  pack  them 
in  barrels,  and  pour  over  them  whiskey  and  rain  water  in  equal  pro- 
portions. The  liquor  must  be  the  usual  strength,  and  pure  from  sul- 
phuric acid.  Test  the  whiskey  with  litmus  paper ;  if,  on  wetting  it, 
the  paper  turns  red,  you  may  be  sure  it  is  diluted  with  water,  sul- 
phuric acid,  and  probably  Cayenne.  The  whiskey  and  water  should  be 
added  as  the  cucumbers  are  packed,  always  keeping  them  under  the 
liquor  by  weights ;  the  barrel  should  stand  in  a  warm  cellar,  and  when 
full  may  be  placed  in  the  sun.  Cucumbers  pickled  in  this  manner 
are  very  acid,  hard,  and  green,  retaining  the  natural  flavor  of  the 
fresh  fruit,  more  than  when  salted.  Peppers  should  be  added  when 
the  vinegar  has  quite  turned,  and  the  pickles  sufficiently  soured.  If 
spiced  pickles  are  preferred,  a  few  can  be  put  in  a  crock  writh  the 
vinegar  spiced  and  peppered  to  suit  the  taste,  or  a  few  can  be  flavored 
by  putting  them  in  the  mango  tub. 

Ripe  Cucumbers. — Select  cucumbers  that  show  a  little  yellow ; 
cut  them  open,  remove  the  seeds,  cut  them  lengthwise,  in  strips  one 
and  a  half  inch  wide,  soak  them  in  salted  water  and  alum  two  days. 
Then  soak  them  half  a  day  in  cold  water.  Take  two  quarts  of  strong 
vinegar,  scald  and  pour  it  over  the  cucumbers  hot,  let  them  stand 
overnight,  then  pack  the  cucumbers  in  a  large-mouthed  bottle ;  dis- 
solve in  one  quart  of  strong  vinegar,  one  pound  of  sugar,  strew  in  the 
bottle  spices  to  suit  the  taste,  cover  the  fruit  with  the  sweetened  vin- 
egar, cork,  and  let  it  stand  all  night ;  the  next  morning  set  the  bottle 
in  the  water  bath,  and  heat  the  water  to  boiling  heat ;  cork  and  set 
in  a  cool  place. 

Pickled  Beans. — Select  young  crispy  beans,  and  string  them ;  put 
them  in  hot,  not  boiling,  brine  overnight ;  the  next  day  green  by  pour- 
ing over  them  hot  alum  water  heated  in  a  brass  kettle,  let  them  stand 
until  cold ;  then  pour  hot  water  over  them  until  greened  ;  when  fresh- 
ened, pour  over  them  hot  vinegar  strongly  spiced,  let  them  lie  for 
three  or  four  days ;  then  put  the  beans  in  bottles,  cover  with  four 
per  cent,  vinegar,  and  cork  tight ;  if  desired  sweet,  add  sugar. 


PICKLES    AND    MANGOES.  301 

Sour  Marteneas  or  Mouse  Pickles.— Pick  the  marteneas  when 
the  size  of  a  small  mouse  ;  leave  on  the  stem,  put  them  in  very  strong 
cold  brine,  let  them  lie  three  days ;  take  them  from  the  brine,  cover 
with  strong  alum,  and  soak  three  hours  ;  then  cover  with  cold  water 
to  freshen  them,  changing  the  water  as  fast  as  it  becomes  salt ;  when 
entirely  fresh,  pour  over  them  hot  spiced  vinegar ;  let  them  lie  until 
seasoned  thfough,  then  bottle,  and  pour  over  them  strong  vinegar. 

Sweet  Marteneas. — Pour  over  marteneas  hot  brine  with  a  little 
alum ;  let  them  lie  four  days,  put  them  in  a  brass  kettle,  pour  over 
them  hot  water  with  a  little  alum,  and  let  them  lie.  Sugar  being  an 
antidote  for  copper,  they  may  be  well  greened  in  the  kettle  without 
danger.  Heat  over  the  water  until  the  marteneas  are  very  green ; 
make  a  syrup  of  vinegar  and  sugar,  allowing  two  pounds  of  sugar  to 
the  quart ;  take  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  vinegar,  and  melt 
to  a  syrup,  wipe  the  marteneas,  and  put  them,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  the 
syrup,  and  heat  over  steam  until  quite  hot,  without  cooking  in  the 
least ;  as  fast  as  they  are  passed  through  the  syrup,  pack  them  in  bot- 
tles with  spices,  and  pour  over  them  the  vinegar  syrup  hot,  have  them 
quite  covered  with  the  syrup,  and  cork  tightly. 

Melon  Mangoes. — Select  small  green  muskmelons,  pack  them  in 
a  tub,  pour  over  them  hot  brine  in  which  alum  has  been  dissolved  ; 
repeat  this  process  three  times,  adding  salt  and  alum  to  keep  the 
brine  the  same  strength  ;  let  them  remain  in  the  brine  six  days  after 
the  last  scald,  making  in  all  nine  days.  Then  put  them  in  a  brass 
kettle,  pour  over  them  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand  covered  six 
hours ;  remove  them  to  a  tub,  pour  over  them  boiling  water,  let 
them  remain  until  nearly  cool ;  pour  over  them  fresh  hot  water  three 
times,  and  soak  them  two  days ;  now  remove  a  strip  of  the  melon, 
cutting  in  the  natural  creases ;  with  the  fingers  scrape  out  all 
the  inside,  wash  them  clean,  and  soak  overnight  in  weak  vinegar. 
Have  ready  horseradish  root  scraped,  and  split  in  fine  strips, 
nasturtium  seeds,  small  button  onions  peeled,  radish  pods,  young 
beans,  green  grapes,  cucumbers  no  larger  than  the  little  finger, 
minute  melon,  young  gherkins,  small  tomatoes,  young  marteneas,  gin- 
ger root,  cinnamon,  cloves,  white  mustard,  young  peppers,  a  ball  of 
twine,  and  a  large  needle. .  Drain  the  melons,  place  them  on  the  table 
with  the  pieces  belonging  to  each  melon  lying  by  them  ;  commence 
with  the  cloves,  put  in  each  melon  six,  then  cinnamon,  ginger  root, 
and  a  teaspoon  of  mustard ;  put  in  each  several  bits  of  horseradish, 


302 

beans,  and  every  other  vegetable  prepared  for  the  filling  of  the 
melons.  "When  some  of  each  are  in,  crowd  the  melon  with  what  is 
left,  using  more  cucumbers  than  any  other  of  the  vegetables,  and  lastly 
crowding  in  as  much  of  the  mustard  seed  as  possible.  If  the  family 
do  not  use  onions,  these  can  be  omitted  ;  one  only  should  be  allowed 
for  each  mango ;  now  place  the  pieces  of  melon  on  each  mango,  as 
they  belong,  heat  enough  vinegar  to  cover  them,  in  which  spices  have 
been  steeped ;  as  fast  as  the  pieces  are  sewed  in,  lay  them  in  the  tub 
with  the  openings  uppermost ;  when  all  are  in  the  tub,  pour  over  them 
the  hot  spiced  vinegar,  cover  tightly,  and  let  them  remain  one  week ; 
then  drain  off  the  spiced  vinegar,  and  cover  with  five  per  cent,  vin- 
egar. A  weight  should  be  put  on  the  mangoes  before  "the  first  vin- 
egar was  poured  on,  to  prevent  their  rising,  which  being  left  on  while 
this  was  drained  off,  will  prevent  the  spiced  vinegar,  which  has  filled 
the  mangoes,  from  escaping ;  the  last  vinegar  will  need  no  spices  if 
the  first  was  highly  flavored.  If  the  vinegar  moulds,  pour  it  off,  drain 
the  mangoes,  and  add  new  spiced  vinegar  cold ;  mangoes  well  made 
with  vinegar  of  proper  strength,  will  keep  until  melons  are  again  in 
season. 

Pickled  Onions. — Peel  small  white  onions,  soak  them  one  week 
in  strong  brine,  changing  the  brine  every  day ;  scald  them  in  milk  and 
water  without  cooking,  rinse  in  hot  water,  and  soak  for  one  day  in 
weak  alum  water,  or  vinegar  in  which  is  dissolved  a  little  alum. 
Pour  over  the  onions  ten  per  cent,  vinegar,  and  bottle ;  pour  on  the 
top  of  each  bottle  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  oil  to  prevent  the  vin- 
egar from  losing  strength,  add  spices  if  desired ;  onions  will  turn  dark 
if  spiced.  The  vinegar  can  be  flavored  with  extracts,  when  their 
color  will  not  change. 

Tomatoes,  to  Picexe  Geeen. — Select  small  green  tomatoes,  pat 
them  in  very  strong  brine  with  a  little  alum,  nine  days ;  green  as 
gherkins,  and  put  them  in  ten  per  cent,  vinegar. 

Pipe  Tomatoes. — Select  small  tomatoes  when  turning  red  but 
not  soft.  Put  them  immediately  in  bottles,  and  pour  over  them  ten 
per  cent,  vinegar ;  add  sugar  and  spices,  if  desired. 

To  Pickle  Geeen  Walnuts. — Gather  the  walnuts,  or,  what  is 
better,  butternuts,  when  very  small,  prick  them  several  times  through 
and  through,  pack  them  in  alternate  layers  of  salt  and  nuts ;  when 
they  have  made  a  brine,  drain  them  and  repack  with  fresh  salt ;  let 


PICKLES    AND    MANGOES.  303 

them  remain  eight  days.  "Wash  them  free  from  salt,  and  wipe  them, 
lay  them  to  dry  three  days ;  steep  spices  in  strong  vinegar,  heat  it 
boiling  hot,  and  pour  it  over  the  nuts,  let  them  stand  one  week,  then 
pack  the  nuts  in  jars  with  spices ;  heat  ten  per  cent,  vinegar  near  to 
boiling  heat,  fill  the  jars,  let  them  become  entirely  cold,  and  then 
cork  tightly ;  the  vinegar  can  be  used  in  fish  sauces  after  the  pickles 
are  used. 

Cauliflower. — Select  fine  cauliflower  heads,  break  them  in  pieces 
as  they  naturally  part,  and  lay  them  in  salted  water  overnight.  The 
next  morning  scald  in  a  water  made  quite  acid  by  dissolving  a  table- 
spoonful  of  citric  acid  in  three  quarts  of  water ;  heat  nearly,  but  not 
quite  boiling  hot,  and  after  draining  well,  put  the  cauliflower  in  ten 
per  cent,  vinegar,  and  pack  in  large  bottles ;  this  pickle  looks  very 
pretty  colored  pink,  with  red  cabbage ;  although" white  when  first 
pickled,  it  soon  turns  dark. 

Pickxed  Cabbage,  Red. — Select  firm  small  heads,  quarter  them, 
shake  salt  in  the  leaves,  and  let  them  lie  all  night ;  in  the  morning 
shake  out  the  salt,  and  scald  vinegar  and  pour  it  over  the  cabbage 
hot ;  let  it  remain  in  the  first  vinegar  three  days ;  in  the  mean  time, 
steep  cinnamon,  mustard  seed,  ginger  root,  peppercorns,  and  a  few 
cloves  in  strong  vinegar  three  days ;  drain  off  the  first  vinegar,  and 
strain  the  spiced  vinegar  over  the  cabbage,  and  keep  it  well  covered. 

Sheed  Cabbage,  Eed  on  White. — Slice  cabbage  very  fine,  and 
scatter  through  very  little  salt ;  when  it  dissolves,  drain  off  the  brine, 
turn  over  hot  spiced  vinegar,  and  let  it  remain  a  few  days,  after 
which  renew  the  vinegar,  and  put  on  a  weight  to  keep  the  cabbage 
under  the  vinegar. 

Picalilly. — Take  any  vegetables,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  tomato, 
carrot,  cucumbers,  onion,  pepper,  beans,  etc.;  salt  them,  pickle  in 
vinegar,  and  mix  with  the  addition  of  strong  spiced  vinegar  to  suit  the 
taste  and  fancy ;  they  can  be  sliced  or  chopped. 

Tomatoes  and  Onions. — Slice  tomatoes  and  onions,  allow  four  times 
as  many  tomatoes  as  onions ;  drain  well,  and  cover  with  strong  spiced 
vinegar  poured  on  boiling  hot.  If  the  tomatoes  and  onions  destroy 
the  life  of  the  vinegar,  drain  the  pickles  thoroughly,  and  add  fresh 
cold  vinegar  to  cover  them. 

Pickled  Musheooms. — Get  the  button  mushrooms ;  put  them  in 


304  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

cold  water ;  dip  a  flannel  in  salt  and  rub  them  off,  and  throw  them  in 
fresh  water  ;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan ;  scatter  over  a  little  salt ;  cover 
close,  and  set  them  in  a  boiling  pot  until  the  salt  has  drawn  the  juice 
from  them  ;  then  lay  them  between  two  towels  until  quite  cold  ;  then 
pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with  strong  distilled  vinegar ;  add  very  little 
mace,  and  put  a  table-spoon  of  salad  oil  on  the  top  ;  cork  tightly,  and 
keep  them  in  a  cool  place. 

Peach  Mangoes. — Take  fine  large  freestone  peaches ;  rub  off  the 
down  with  a  small,  stiff  brush  ;  open  them  ;  remove  the  pit,  and  fill 
with  spices ;  and  pour  over  them  four  per  cent,  vinegar.  If  pre- 
ferred, add  sugar  to  the  vinegar.     {See  Fruit  Pickles,  in  Part  Y.) 

Pepper  Mangoes,  No.  1. — Open  large  sweet  peppers ;  fill  them 
with  the  same  vegetables  and  spices  as  the  melon  mangoes,  omitting 
the  pepper,  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar.  When  removing  the 
seeds,  have  a  basin  of  milk  near,  in  which  to  dip  the  hands,  or  thfr 
peppers  will  cause  intense  suffering. 

Pepper  Mangoes,  No.  2. — Fill  tomato-shaped,  or  any  other  pep- 
pers, with  picalilly,  or  cabbage  and  celery  chopped  together  and 
seasoned  with  mustard  seeds ;  sew  them  firmly  and  cover  with  hot 
vinegar. 

Small  Melon  Pickles. — Pick  muskmelons  no  larger  than  a  wal- 
nut ;  prick  them,  and  lay  them  in  brine  two  days ;  then  freshen,  and 
green  as  directed  for  other  pickles,  and  put  them  in  hot  spiced  vine- 
gar ;  they  make  an  excellent  brittle  pickle. 

Pickled  Cayenne  Peppers. — Pick  the  small  peppers ;  prick  them, 
and  put  them  in  ten  per  cent,  vinegar. 

Pickled  Nasturtiums. — Gather  the  seeds  very  young,  and  put 
them  in  the  strongest  vinegar,  and  cork  tightly  ;  use  them  in  place  of 
capers  for  sauces. 

Pipe  Muskmelon  Pickles. — Take  hard  muskmelons,  after  they 
are  sufficiently  ripe  to  be  well  flavored;  slice  them  lengthwise; 
scrape  out  the  seeds,  and  lay  the  melon  in  salt  overnight ;  wash  and 
wipe  dry,  and  put  them  in  alum-water  one  hour ;  wash  and  wipe  them 
again,  cut  them  in  slices,  and  pack  them  in  glass  jars ;  pour  over  a 
syrup  of  vinegar  with  spices,  and  set  them  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water ; 


PICKLES    AND    MANGOES.  305 

heat  gradually  to  boiling ;  remove  the  bottles,  and  cork  as  soon  as 
cold.    They  can  be  peeled  if  preferred,  or  cut  in  rings. 

To  Pickle  Caeeot. — Boil  carrot  until  tender ;  cut  them  in  fancy 
shapes,  and  put  them  in  strong  vinegar.  This  is  a  pretty  garnish 
and  an  excellent  pickle.  It  can  be  spiced  or  flavored  to  suit  the 
taste. 

To  Geeen  CucrMBEES  with  Geape-vine  Leaves. — Many  persons 
have  a  prejudice  against  cucumbers  greened  with  alum,  in  copper ; 
and  indeed,  without  the  closest  attention  to  the  process  described, 
there  is  danger  of  the  pickles  becoming  impregnated  more  or  less 
with  the  copper.  For  those  who  would  like  fine-looking  pickles,  and 
do  not  mind  trouble,  the  following  directions  may  be  useful ;  although 
they  must  not  expect  to  get  their  pickles  a  very  beautiful  color, 
they  will  look  much  better  than  if  no  effort  is  made  to  green  them. 
"When  packing  the'  cucumbers  in  the  salt,  line  the  barrel,  bottom 
and  sides,  with  grape  leaves,  and  pack  between  the  layers  of  cucum- 
bers a  quantity  of  the  fresh  leaves,  until  the  barrel  is  full.  "When 
salted  through,  remove  them  from  the  brine,  and  pour  upon  the 
pickles,  several  times,  boiling  water.  If  not  the  desired  color,  line  a 
tub  in  the  same  manner  that  the  barrel  was  prepared,  and  pack  the 
pickles  with  a  large  quantity  of  the  leaves.  Heat  vinegar  boiling  hot, 
pour  it  over  the  pickles,  and  cover  them  tight.  If,  the  next  morning, 
they  are  not  sufficiently  greened,  drain  off  the  vinegar,  reheat  it,  and 
pour  it  again  over  them  ;  repeat  the  process  until  of  the  color  desired. 
"When  they  are  sufficiently  greened,  pour  over  them  hot  vinegar ;  if 
they  taste  of  the  vine  leaves,  change  the  vinegar  after  a  week. 
Pickles,  put  down  with  sugar,  or  made  with  whiskey,  will  be 
nearly  as  green  without  any  trouble  in  greening,  as  those  greened 
with  vine  leaves.  The  sugar-made  pickles  may  be  considered  as  a 
first-rate  family  pickle,  and  not  so  expensive  as  would  seem,  without 
remembering  that  there  is  no  vinegar  to  be  bought  for  them. 


PART  VIII. 

*♦* 

CHAPTER  I. 

KITCHEN  GAEDEN,  WITH   PLAN. 

Remabks. — The  writer  designs  in  this  chapter  to  give  some  gen- 
eral directions  to  those  who  are  entirely  ignorant  of  agriculture  in  all 
its  divisions,  having  been  accustomed  to  live  where  a  patch  of  green 
was  a  luxury  only  enjoyed  by  the  millionnaire ;  but  who,  happily,  find 
themselves  snugly  settled  in  a  little  home  of  their  own,  in  a  quiet  coun- 
try village,  where  an  acre  of  ground  is  only  too  small  for  the  comfort 
of  a  family ;  in  such  towns  no  vegetable  market  for  the  summer  is  to 
be  depended  upon ;  every  family  raise  their  own,  and  friends  take  as 
much  interest  in  looking  at  the  thrifty  vegetables  in  each  other's 
gardens,  as  in  more  fashionable  places,  in  examining  the  expensive 
exotics  which  adorn  the  parlor  or  green-house.  Many  beginners  in 
gardening  fail  for  want  of  the  knowledge  of  a  few  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples in  the  science  of  horti-  and  agriculture.  The  first  requisite  is 
to  prepare  the  soil  in  such  a  manner  as  to  insure  the  healthy  growth 
of  tree  or  root.  It  is  absurd  to  think  of  any  plants  thriving  in  a  cold, 
wet,  hard  soil,  yet  many  plant  valuable  trees  and  vines  in  just  such, 
losing  eventually  both  tree  and  time.  Roots  cannot  live  in  water, 
or  destitute  of  air.  In  low,  wet  soils,  with  clay  subsoil,  the  roots  of 
vines  and  trees  become  mouldy,  the  fruit  drops,  and  the  tree  becomes 
worthless ;  the  reason  of  this  is,  the  air  cannot  penetrate  stiif,  wet 
clay  soils,  so  as  to  reach  the  roots,  which  is  absolutely  necessary  if  a 
thrifty  growth  of  tree  or  plant  is  desired.  The  most  money  will  be 
saved  in  the  end  by  a  proper  preparation  of  the  soil,  before  planting 
either  tree  or  plant.  After  what  has  been  advanced  in  reject  to 
water  and  air,  it  will  be  readily  seen  that  a  wet  soil  must  be  drained, 


KITCHEN    GARDEN,   WITH   PLAN.  307 

and  hard  clay  broken  up.  The  object  now  will  be  to  show  the  most 
efficient  mode  of  accomplishing  these  desirable  results,  so  as  to  pro- 
duce the  most  permanent  good. 

Uxdeedkaixing-  is  considered  by  all  to  be  the  only  method  to  be 
depended  upon  for  the  thorough  draining  of  wet  land.     "We  will 
describe  fully  the  particular  manner  to  accomplish  this  with  the  least 
possible  expense.    First  engage  a  good  ditcher  to  do  your  work : 
there  is  as  great  difference  in  ditchers  as  in  mechanics  ;  measure  the 
ground,  and  decide  how  the  drains  shall  run  ;  if  they  are  three  feet 
deep,  forty  feet  apart  is  sufficient ;  if  one  and  a  half,  twenty  will  do, 
etc. ;  a  fall  of  from  one  to  two  inches  to  the  hundred  feet  is  all  that 
is  needed ;  they  must  be  dug  in  a  straight  line,  and  made  very  even 
on  the  bottom ;  this  will  be  the  most  easily  accomplished  with  a 
hoe ;  if  tile  is  used,  thin  sod  placed  over  the  joints  will  prevent  the 
soil  from  working  into  the  tile ;  when  tile  cannot  be  procured,  use 
white  oak  boards,  entirely  free  from  sap,  from  five  to  nine  inches 
wide,  according  to  the  amount  of  water  to  be  carried  off,  and  fully 
one  inch  thick ;  place  the  edges  of  two  boards  together,  so  that  the 
opening  shall  be  the  same  width  as  the  boards  of  which  the  drains 
are  formed ;  fasten  them  in  place,  with  three  tenpenny  nails,  one  at 
each  end,  and  one  in  the  middle  ;  be  very  careful,  in  laying  them  in 
the  drains,  to  keep  them  in  the  right  position,  as  the  manner  described 
forms  the  strongest  arch ;  before  putting  the  tile  or  boards  into  the 
drain,  be  sure  that  you  have  the  right  descent ;  if  dug  in  a  wet  time, 
the  proper  declivity  will  be  readily  ascertained  by  the  movement  of 
the  water,  which  should  be,  very  slow.     In  a  dry  time  resort  should 
be  had  to  a  level ;  when  a  level  is  used,  pins  should  be  driven  in  the 
bottom  of  the  drain,  as  a  guide  for  finishing  it.     When  the  drains  are 
ready  which  have  before  been  formed,  the  two  boards  of  equal  length, 
nailed  as  before  directed,  may  be  carefully  laid  in  the  ditch,  so  as  not 
to  move  them  from  the  right  position ;  sufficient  straw  is  then  put  in 
to  fill  the  crevices,  and  clay,  if  it  is  on  hand,  thrown  in  to  fill  the 
ditch ;  sand,  if  thrown  in  next  the  straw,  is  apt  to  work  in  and  fill  the 
drains ;  but  clay  will  form  a  hard  pan,  so  that  when  the  straw  decays, 
the  crevices  will  be  protected  from  the  loose  sand  which  would  other- 
wise fill  it  up.     Board  drains  will  last  from  fifteen  to  twenty  years, 
and  tile  a  whole  lifetime.    Even  if  land  is  dry,  underdrains  are  a  great 
benefit  to  the  soil;  as  experience  shows  that  lands  so  treated,  suffer 
comparatively  little  by  drought  or  wet ;  they  also  save  much  of  the 
ammonia  of  the  rain-water,  taking  it  up  so  suddenly  as  to  prevent 


308 

evaporation  by  the  influence  of  the  snn.  A  large  drain  should  be 
constructed,  into  which  all  the  small  drains  can  flow  ;  this  should  be 
sufficiently  deep  to  allow  the  water  to  fall  into  it  slowly.  There  is  gen- 
erally some  natural  outlet  or  public  drain  into  which  this  can  empty. 

Teenching. — After  the  draining  is  accomplished,  the  next  object 
is  to  deepen,  and  if  hard,  to  soften  the  soil.  The  very  best  method 
of  benefiting  such  land  permanently,  is  to  trench,  and  at  the  same 
time,  manure  it.  Proceed  as  follows :  open  a  trench  two  feet  wide ; 
throw  the  top  soil  into  a  cart,  or  wheelbarrow,  and  dump  it  down  on 
the  opposite  side  of  the  bed  that  is  to  be  trenched.  This  soil  is  usually 
about  six  inches  to  one  foot  deep  ;  throw  out  a  foot  of  soil  from  the 
bottom  of  the  trench,  and  cart  that  to  the  other  side  of  the  bed,  so 
that  it  can  be  shovelled  into  the  last  trench,  after  the  top  soil ;  spade 
up  so  as  to  loosen  the  soil  in  the  trench,  one  spade  deep  ;  throw  into 
the  trench  one  foot  of  long  manure,  and  then  proceed  as  before.  To 
open  another  trench,  throw  the  top  soil  from  this  into  the  first  trench, 
and  afterwards  the  clay,  and  so  proceed  until  each  bed  in  the  garden 
is  finished ;  this  should  be  done  late  in  the  summer,  or  early  in  the 
fall,  so  that  the  frost  can  act  upon  the  clay ;  a  great  change  in  it  being 
effected  by  the  freezing.  In  the  spring,  the  soil  will  be  found  soft 
and  crumbling;  it  should  then  have  a  coat  of  manure,  a  sprinkling  of 
salt,  and  a  little  ashes,  spread  evenly  over  it,  and  be  thoroughly 
spaded  ;  after  it  has  lain  an  hour,  it  should  be  raked,  or  if  pretty  dry, 
immediately ;  should  the  trenching  be  done  in  the  spring,  the  top  soil 
must  be  left  on  the  top ;  the  clay  can  be  thrown  up  the  next  fall  to 
freeze.  Before  this  process  is  gone  over,  the  garden  should  be  laid 
out,  and  the  walks  decided  upon  (see  Plan  of  Garden),  as  it  is  unne- 
cessary to  trench  where  they  are  to  be ;  indeed,  the  harder  the  walks, 
the  better. 

Manueino. — Should  the  soil  be  a  light  sand,  deep  manuring  will 
be  found  equally  important,  though  the  extra  loosening  of  the  trench 
before  manuring  is  unnecessary.  The  lighter  the  soil,  the  more 
manure  will  be  needed  in  the  spring  top  dressing,  before  spading. 
Solid  manure  will  be  more  benefit  to  light  lands  than  that  mixed 
with  straw  ;  and  light  manures  are  the  best  for  heavy  lands.  If  this 
process  is  thought  too  expensive,  procure  a  person  who  understands 
ploughing,  and  have  the  whole  trenched  with  the  plough,  a  person 
going  after,  and  throwing  manure  into  each  furrow,  so  that  the  next 
furrow  will  cover  it,  etc. ;  none  but  an  experienced  ploughman  can 
plough  land  in  this  fashion.    Let  the  land  remain  rough  until  spring, 


WITH    PLAN.  309 

then  drag  and  plough  again,  running  the  furrows  the  opposite  way 
from  the  first.  It  should  be  manured  in  the  spring,  before  ploughing, 
and  a  little  ashes  and  suit  thrown  over  the  land,  as  directed,  before 
spring  spading.  The  land  should  be  dragged  and  all  the  lumps  broken, 
before  the  beds  are  laid  out.  Unless  very  pliable,  it  will  still  need  for 
small  seeds,  both  careful  spading  and  raking. 

After  the  ground  is  ready,  if  not  before  done,  proceed  to  lay  out  the 
garden ;  decide  how  many  trees  you  will  plant ;  prepare  the  border  for 
currants,  strawberry  bed,  raspberry  border,  etc.  For  a  family  of  six, 
the  following  is  about  the  proportion  of  ground  wanted  for  each  vege- 
table :  asparagus-bed  three  feet  wide  and  twenty  feet  long,  or  two 
beds,  each  three  wide  and  ten  long;  beans,  a  bed  three  by  nine 
is  all  sufficient ;  beets  will  need  a  bed  three  by  twenty ;  cabbage  will 
take  a  large  spot,  if  it  is  intended  to  grow  for  whiter  use ;  but  as  this 
vegetable  is  usually  very  cheap  in  the  fall,  only  the  small  summer 
varieties  are  grown  in  gardens  ;  thirty  heads  of  Early  York  can  be 
grown  on  a  bed  three  feet  wide  and  twelve  long ;  cauliflowers  will 
take  the  same  room  for  fifteen  plants ;  for  carrots,  a  bed  three  by  six 
will  be  all  that  is  needed ;  of  celery,  fifty  heads  can  be  grown  in  a  trench 
fifty  feet  long ;  the  room  taken  up  in  width  for  a  trench  is  about 
three  feet ;  six  egg  plants  will  occupy  a  bed  three  feet  by  eight ; 
lettuce  can  be  grown  on  the  borders  of  the  cabbage  and  cauliflower- 
beds  ;  a  small  seedling  bed,  three  by  three,  will  furnish  plants  ;  water 
and  muskmelon  will  need  a  square  fifteen  by  twenty  ;  cucumbers  the 
same ;  corn,  twenty  square  feet  for  the  first,  and  the  same  for  the 
second  planting ;  the  first  peas  will  require  two  borders  three  feet  by 
nine,  the  second  the  same ;  martenaes  and  okra,  each  occupy  three 
feet  to  a  plant ;  nasturtiums  spread  very  much,  a  bed  three  by  six, 
with  six  plants,  would  be  sufficient ;  peppers,  a  bed  three  by  six ; 
parsley  the  same,  or  it  can  be  used  as  borders  for  other  beds ;  pars- 
nips three  by  nine,  will  be  sufficient  for  summer  use ;  they  can  be 
bought  very  low  in  the  fall  and  spring ;  onions  three  by  nine ;  early 
potatoes,  a  square  of  twenty  feet ;  squash,  four  hills,  occupying  nine 
square  feet ;  radishes,  the  first  crop  can  be  grown  on  the  borders  of 
other  beds  ;  the  second  on  a  bed  of  three  by  six  feet ;  salsify  will  take 
a  bed  three  by  twelve,  if  the  family  make  much  use  of  it ;  for  spin- 
ach ,,  a  bed  three  by  nine  will  be  all  that  is  needed ;  for  turnips,  a  small 
bed  only  for  summer  use,  three  by  twelve  ;  for  tomato,  each  plant  will 
require  three  or  four  feet,  according  to  the  variety ;  a  bed  three  by 
six  for  sage,  the  same  for  summer-savory,  half  as  much  room  for  thyme 
and  sweet  marjoram ; .  a  bed  three  by  six  containing  wormwood, 


310  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

tansy,  Old  Man,  etc.  Beds,  for  vegetables,  should  never  be  over  four 
feet  wide.  The  garden  should  first  be  laid  out  in  squares  with  a  bor- 
der round  the  whole ;  this  border  can  be  occupied  with  currants,  and 
if  so  large  as  to  contain  more  than  is  needed  for  the  family,  rasp- 
berries and  blackberries  can  be  added  ;  though  the  latter  will  do  bet- 
ter in  a  more  roomy  part  of  the  premises,  as  they  grow  very  strag- 
gling. The  squares  for  melons,  cucumbers,  and  squashes  should  be  as 
far  apart  as  possible,  and  separated  by  high  plants,  as  corn  and  peas. 

Spinach. — Plant  this  in  the  fall,  as  it  is  only  useful  as  an  early 
green ;  a  little  litter  must  be  scattered  over  it,  if  the  seed  comes  up 
before  frost  sets  in. 

Peas  are  the  first  seeds  usually  planted  in  the  spring ;  soak  the 
peas  in  saltpetre  water  (see  Pure  Saltpetre),  to  prevent  the  ravages  of 
the  wire-worm.  If  the  season  is  favorable,  plant  the  first  week  in 
! April,  or  as  soon  as  the  ground  is  free  from  frost,  'and  sufficiently  dry 
to  work ;  this  rule  will  hold  good  for  all  climates.  Make  two  drills 
one  foot  apart,  and  plant  each  seed  separately  one  inch  apart ;  as  soon 
as  they  are  three  inches  high,  draw  a  little  soil  up  to  them ;  do  this 
every  week,  until  they  commence  running,  when  they  must  have 
sticks,  placed  for  them  to  fasten  on ;  drive  each  stick  firmly  in  the 
ground,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other,  so  as  to  meet  half-way 
between  the  drills  ;  they  will  stand  much  firmer  thus,  than  if  driven 
straight  in  the  ground ;  each  row  separately  staked.  The  seed  should 
be  two  years  old.    Make  the  drills  two  inches  deep. 

Parsnips  can  be  sown  as  soon  as  the  frost  is  out  of  the  ground ; 
cover  the  seed  lightly,  and  press  the  soil  firmly,  by  placing  a  short 
board  over  the  drills,  and  standing  on  it.  Thin  as  soon  as  the  plants 
have  grown  two  inches  high ;  so  that  each  plant  will  be  four  inches 
apart ;  when  they  are  wanted  to  boil  for  summer  use,  thin  again,  leav- 
ing them  eight  inches  apart.    Plant  the  sugar  or  hallow-crown. 

Double-oueled  Parsley  can  be  sown  in  the  fall,  or  early  in  the 
spring ;  thin  the  plants  as  soon  as  well  up,  to  an  inch  apart ;  and 
again  when  large  enough  to  use  ;  it  should  stand  one  foot  apart  when 
sufficiently  thinned.  It  bears  its  seed  the  second  year,  and  then 
dies.     Old  seed  vegetates  sooner  than  fresh. 

Onions  can  be  planted  as  soon  as  the  soil  can  be  prepared.  The 
bed  should  be  very  richly  manured,  and  the  soil  finely  pulverized.  If 
the  black  seed  is  planted,  they  must  be  thinned  to  stand  four  inches 


KITCHEN    GARDEN    WITH    PLAN.  311 

apart.  Onions  must  not  be  hoed  so  as  to  have  the  bulbs  covered. 
The  whole  bulb  should  be  exposed,  the  roots  only  covered.  If  they 
do  not  incline  to  bottom,  bend  the  tops  gently,  this  will  generally 
have  the  desired  effect.  Gather  them  as  soon  as  the  tops  dry ;  leave 
them  in  the  sun,  and  when  dry,  spread  them  in  a  cool  dry  cellar. 

Salsify  oe  Vegetable  Oystees. — Plant  in  rows  about  one  foot 
apart,  the  seeds  not  nearer  than  two  inches  from  each  other ;  press 
the  soil  firmly,  and  thin  to  four  inches.  Leave  some  for  the  next 
year's  seed  in  the  ground  all  winter.  Pull  those  needed  for  winter 
use  as  directed,  before  frost,  etc.    They  are  the  best  in  the  spring. 

Beets. — Extra  early  varieties  should  be  first  planted.  Drop  the 
seeds  in  drills  three  inches  apart,  unless  wanted  for  greens ;  if  so, 
plant  two  inches.  Thin  early ;  what  is  usually  called  the  beet  seed 
is  in  reality  several  seeds  enclosed  in  cells,  so  that  this  vegetable  will 
need  much  thinning.  "When  about  four  inches  high  they  will  do  for 
greens.  For  winter  select  long  blood,  or  Whyte's  new  blood,  and 
plant  the  1st  of  July.  Beet  seeds  should  always  be  soaked  in  salt- 
petre water,  as  this  will  not  only  prevent  the  attack  of  the  wire- 
worm,  but  also  give  the  young  beet  a  start  it  would  otherwise  not 
have.  Cover  all  seeds  the  size  of  beets  a  half-inch,  and  press  down 
the  s9il. 

Beans. — Plant  early  six  weeks.  Soak  the  beans  as  directed  for 
beets.  Plant  the  hills  one  foot  apart  each  way.  Put  into  each  hill 
six  beans,  in  this  manner :  draw  a  circle  four  inches  across,  plant  the 
beans  at  equal  distances,  when  three  inches  high  thin  them,  leaving 
three  in  each  hill.  Draw  the  soil  up  to  the  roots  as  they  grow,  mak- 
ing slight  hills ;  continue  this  until  they  nearly  cover  the  ground.  As 
soon  as  the  stems  dry,  pull  up  most  of  the  roots,  leaving  a  few  to 
ripen  seed  for  the  next  season. 

Cabbage,  Eaely  Yoek. — Set  the  plants  one  foot  apart  in  the 
bed,  after  first  winding  them*  as  far  as  the  leaves,  with  brown  paper, 
to  prevent  the  cut-worms  from  destroying  them.  Draw  the  soil 
around  the  roots  of  the  plant,  as  fast  as  they  grow.  Do  not  let  the 
stumps  remain  in  the  ground  after  cutting  the  head,  as  they  only 
waste  the  best  part  of  the  soil. 

Cauliflowee. — This  vegetable  will  not  bear  hot  weather ;  it  is 
necessary,  therefore,  to  get  it  started  early  for  the  first  crop  to  take 


312  housekeeper's  encyclopedia.  -% 

advantage  of  the  coolest  part  of  the  season.  In  order  to  do  this,  plant 
the  seed  in  autumn,  and  protect  the  plants  in  a  cold  frame  during  the 
cold  weather,  and  put  them  out  as  soon  as  all  clanger  of  frost  is  over, 
in  soil  as  rich  as  it  can  be  made ;  to  insure  a  quick  and  thrifty  growth 
of  the  plant,  they  should  stand  at  least  two  feet  apart.  "Wrap  the 
stems  in  brown  paper  two  inches  above  the  surface  of  the  soil,  and 
the  cut- worm  will  not  touch  them.  Stir  the  soil  frequently,  and  draw 
it  to  the  plant.  As  soon  as  it  shows  flower,  bend  the  leaves  and  tie 
them  together,  to  protect  them  from  sun  and  rain.  "When  fit  to  cut, 
cook  immediately  ;  it  should  not  lie  an  hour  without  being  dressed,  as 
it  soon  discolors. 

Broccoli. — Cultivate  in  the  same  manner  as  cauliflower.  Some 
varieties  are  nearly  as  good. 

Celery. — Sow  the  seeds  in  rich  soil  in  open  ground  in  autumn ; 
or,  if  this  has  been  neglected,  in  a  gentle  hot-bed  in  April ;  sometimes, 
however,  it  can  be  raised  in  open  ground  in  the  spring.  It  is  very  slow 
to  germinate  without  heat,  and  must  be  soaked  in  a  little  water  some 
time.  Thin  the  plants  to  four  inches,  and  when  pretty  strong  plant 
them  in  a  rich  border,  after  removing  a  part  of  the  leaves  and  a  piece 
of  the  tap  root.  Let  them  remain  in  the  border  until  the  middle  of 
June,  when  a  trench  should  be  dug  four  feet  deep,  the  bottom  two 
wide,  and  widening  to  three  across  the  top.  In  the  bottom  of  this 
trench  lay  a  foot  of  good  decomposed  manure,  and  nine  inches  of  the 
best  soil  to  be  had  ;  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt  and  ashes,  and  mix  it  all 
together ;  let  it  lie  one  week  before  planting.  Have  ready  a  pail  of 
mud ;  lift  each  plant  carefully ;  if  the  roots  are  exposed,  dip  each 
in  the  mud,  and  plant  immediately,  one  foot  distant  from  each  other. 
Soak  them  in  water  after  planting,  (not  sprinkle,  as  most  people  water,) 
and  cover  from  the  sun ;  keep  them  protected  from  the  sun  during 
the  day  for  a  week,  and  take  off  the  covering  at  night  or  if  it  rains. 
Give  the  plants  plenty  of  water  ;  if  the  season  is  dry,  soak  the  trench 
twice  a  week.  It  is  a  marsh  plant,  and  will  do  nothing  if  dry. 
House  slops  diluted  are  a  good  stimulant,  but  the  leaves  must  not  be 
wet  with  it ;  another  watering  will  be  necessary,  when  this  is  used,  to 
rinse  any  from  the  plants  that  may  have  been  sprinkled  on  them.  Stir 
the  soil  often.  Before  commencing  to  blanch,  let  the  plants  become 
strong  and  stocky,  and  if  possible  draw  the  earth  to  them  in  bright 
weather,  crumble  the  soil,  take  the  leaves  in  the  left  hand,  and  carefully 
pack  the  fine  soil  around  each  separate  plant,  being  careful  each  time 


313 

not  to  cover  the  crown.  If  dirt  gets  into  the  crown,  the  celery  will 
rust.  The  watering  must  be  continued  while  the  plant  is  growing. 
Draw  the  earth  frequently  up  to  the  plant  as  it  grows,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  stalks.  Celery  is  fit  to  commence  blanching  when 
one  foot  high,  and  should  be  continued  until  the  last  of  autumn. 
When  lifted,  be  cautious  how  you  use  the  spade ;  it  is,  or  should  be, 
very  brittle,  and  of  course  will  break  easily.  It  can  be  blanched 
two  feet,  though  it  is  often  seen  less  than  one.  When  started  very 
early  in  a  hot-bed,  it  is  apt  to  run  to  seed.  If  a  few  roots  are  set  out 
and  allowed  to  seed,  it  will  sow  itself,  which  is  perhaps  as  sure  away 
to  obtain  good  strong  plants  as  there  is.  Seymour's  White  Solid  is  per- 
haps the  best  variety ;  Giant  White  is  much  esteemed  by  some,  but  no 
seed,  however  great  its  name,  will  raise  good  celery  with  poor  culti- 
vation ;  while  any  common  variety  will  be  found  superior  with  it. 
Directions  for  its  preservation  will  be  found  in  another  part  of  this 
work,  under  the  headof  Vegetables  Preserved  fob  Winter  Use  by 
Storing  and  Burying. 

Cucumbers  and  Melons. — For  table  use  we  prefer  Early  Rus- 
sian, a  small  brittle  cucumber,  more  highly  flavored  than  any  other 
kind.  It  is  the  earliest  cucumber  known.  It  makes  a  good,  but 
not  handsome  pickle,  if  gathered  very  young.  For  pickles,  the  early 
frame,  and  long  green,  are  highly  esteemed.  Gherkins  are  excellent 
when  quite  young,  and  bear  a  good  crop  when  the  season  is  too 
dry  and  hot  £or  other  vines.  They  are  oval  and  covered  with 
prickles,  and  are  called  by  some,  prickly  cucumbers.  Prepare  hills 
with  plenty  of  rich  manure ;  they  should  be  the  size  of  a  half- 
bushel  in  circumference,  raised  two  inches  only  above  the  bed,  and 
five  feet  apart.  Soak  the  seeds  overnight  in  saltpetre  water ;  plant 
six  seeds  on  the  north  side,  considerably  scattered ;  in  three  days 
plant  the  same  quantity  on  the  south ;  in  three  days  again  plant  the 
same  on  the  east ;  and  in  three  days  more  on  the  west.  Melons  and 
squashes  are  to  be  planted  in  the  same  manner.  This  may  seem  super- 
fluous, and  sometimes  it  is  unnecessary,  but  the  frost  and  worms  often 
destroy  the  first  crops  entirely,  and  a  few  days  may  make  a  great 
difference.  Leave  two,  or  at  the  most  three,  plants  in  each  hill ;  if 
they  are  crowded,  so  that  in  removing  the  superfluous  plants  the  re- 
mainder will  be  injured,  thin  very  early ;  but  if  a  few  inches  apart,  let 
them  remain  quite  thick,  until  the  season  for  bugs  has  passed,  When 
the  vine  puts  forth  its  first  runner,  pinch  it  off,  to  make  it  branch  and 
fruit  earlier.  In  melons,  as  soon  as  all  the  fruit  is  set  which  will  ripen, 
14 


314 

stop  every  runner  as  fast  as  they  put  out.  Lime  scattered  on  the  vines 
while  the  dew  is  on,  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  the  striped  bug ;  it 
must  be  repeated  when  washed  off  by  showers.  (See  Insects.)  We 
raise  the  finest  melons  and  cucumbers  by  pursuing  the  following  plan : 
Trench  the  whole  bed,  burying  a  foot  of  coarse  litter  from  the  stable, 
mostly  straw,  one  foot  under  the  surface,  and  then  proceeding  exactly 
as  before.  Or  we  remove  the  soil  from  a  pit  three  feet  square  to  the 
depth  of  two  feet,  and  fill  it  with  coarse  litter  and  manure  fresh  from 
the  stable,  and  then  throw  back  the  best  of  the  soil,  well  enriched ;  in 
this  we  plant  seeds  in  the  four  corners,  leaving  one  in  each  to  mature. 
Where  it  is  almost  impossible  to  raise  melons,  especially  the  water- 
melon, this  plan  will  generally  succeed.  The  finest  muskmelons  are 
the  Persian,  but  they  require  a  very  favorable  season  at  the  North  to 
mature.  Nutmeg;  Turk-cap,  and  netted  citron  are  good  enough,  and 
more  sure.  White-cored  mountain  sprout,  with  seeds  entirely  white, 
is  a  variety  but  little  known  East ;  at  the  West  it  is  very  superior. 
Long  Island  is  a  mongrel,  but  an  excellent  melon.  Ked-cored  mountain 
sprout,  Imperial,  and  for  late  use,  the  Black  Spanish,  are  among  the  best. 
Carolina,  with  us,  is  large  but  poorly  flavored.  There  is  a  winter  va- 
riety which  ripens  late  and  keeps  well.  It  is  insipid,  only  valued  as  a 
curiosity.  Melons  deteriorate  if  planted  near  other  vines.  One  pump- 
kin vine  will  spoil  a  whole  garden  of  melons,  cucumbers,  or  fine  squash- 
es. Seeds  of  cucumbers  and  melons  should  be  at  least  three  years  old ; 
they  will  vegetate  when  six.  The  theory  is,  that  seeds  produce  more 
fruit  and  less  vine  when  the  powers  of  germination  are  almost  ex- 
tinct. The  last  efforts  of  nature  being  to  reproduce  itself,  the  whole 
strength  of  the  seed  goes  to  flower  and  fruit  instead  of  vine  and  leaf. 
Florists  take  advantage  of  this  fact  to  produce  double  blooms  in  great 
profusion,  from  seed  ripened  from  single  flowers. 


j. — Thyme  and  sage  should  be  planted  where  they  can  remain 
three  years ;  thin  the  plants  to  one  foot  apart.  Summer-savory  and 
sweet  marjoram  are  annuals,  and  can  be  sown  more  thickly ;  tansy, 
wormwood,  and  Old  Man  are  perennials,  they  must  seldom  be  trans- 
planted ;  sage  is  tender  and  needs  a  little  protection.  The  time  for 
cutting  herbs  is  when  in  flower ;  they  do  not  need  rich  soil ;  the  flavor 
is  stronger  in  poor  soil. 

Nasturtium. — This  needs  only  planting  and  thinning,  if  allowed 
to  cover  the  bed ;  they  can  be  trained  on  a  trellis ;  in  which  case  the 
soil  should  be  drawn  to  the  stem.    The  green  seeds  are  what  are  used ; 


WITH    PLAN.  315 

they  flavor  vinegar  finely  for  pickles,  and  are  sometimes  substituted 
for  capers.  The  flower  is  showy,  and  should  be  placed  in  a  conspicu- 
ous part  of  the  garden. 

Okea. — Plant  the  seeds,  and  thin  them  ;  they  are  a  large  plant, 
and  want  room ;  three  feet  to  each  plant  is  about  what  they  will 
need. 

Egg  Plant. — (See  particulars  in  Hot  Beds.)  After  the  plant  is 
large  enough  to  transplant,  take  it  up  carefully,  having  first  prepared 
the  hole  for  them ;  dip  the  roots  in  mud,  and  set  them  out  as  soon 
as  possible.  All  plants  of  large  size  taken  from  the  hot-beds,  will 
need  protection  in  the  same  manner  as  the  cabbage ;  they  are  so  ten- 
der, that  cut-worms  will  take  them  in  preference  to  a  slow-grown 
plant.  Shade  the  plants  from  the  sun  for  a  few  days.  If  there  is 
danger  of  frost,  protect  them,-  as  they  are  very  tender,  even  cold  winds 
are  injurious,  putting  them  back  for  weeks. 

Caeeots. — Follow  the  directions  for  beets,  except  in  covering  the 
seeds ;  one-fourth  of  an  inch  is  sufficient  for  seeds  of  this  size.  For 
family  use,  Early  Short  Horn,  a  French  variety,  is  to  be  preferred. 

Lettuce. — For  the  earliest,  plant  Early  Butter  or  Cabbage,  a  small 
bed  should  be  sown  as  soon  as  the  ground  can  be  worked.  When  the 
leaves  are  two  or  three  inches  high,  transplant  them  carefully  to  the 
edges  of  the  cabbage  or  cauliflower  beds,  and  let  them  head.  The 
seedling  bed  can  be  thinned  for  use  as  fast  as  it  grows.  For  a  late 
salad,  plant  Ice  Leaf,  or  Drumhead ;  the  Cos  are  fine,  but  require  more 
managing  to  blanch  them. 

Peppeegeass  needs  only  sowing  in  drills ;  it  grows  quickly,  and 
can  be  used  very  small,  if  the  cook  has  patience  to  dress  it. 

Hoeseeadish. — A  few  roots  should  be  planted  for  spring  use; 
scrape  the  small  roots,  and  lay  them  almost  horizontally  in  the  ground. 
It  is  well  always  to  keep  this  in  the  same  place  in  the  garden,  as  when 
once  rooted,  it  is  difficult  to  eradicate  it. 

Eadishes. — The  turnip  radish  is  the  earliest,  but  the  Early  Scarlet 
Short  Top  is  the  best ;  plant  both ;  these  can  be  sown  early  in  the 
spring  on  the  edges  of  other  beds,  and  for  late  crops  by  themselves ; 
they  delight  in  light,  quick  soil ;  the  faster  they  grow,  the  more  tender. 
It  is  said  that  wheat-bran  raked  in  the  bed  will  prevent  the  worms 


316         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

eating  the  root.  Thin  radishes  as  soon  as  possible,  or  they  will  grow 
to  stalk  instead  of  root.  Let  some  plants  ripen  for  the  sake  of  the  seed 
pods,  which  make  a  fine  pickle.  Winter  radishes  must  be  planted  very 
thinly  from  the  first  to  the  middle  of  July,  and  gathered  before  frost. 
The  Black  Spanish  is  a  good  variety. 

Sweet  Corn. — Prepare  hills  at  regular  distances,  from  three  to 
four  feet  apart ;  soak  the  corn  overnight  in  saltpetre  water,  and  plant 
six  kernels  in  each  hill  equally  distant  from  each  other,  the  whole 
occupying  a  space  as  large  as  a  peck  measure  ;  watch  it  well,  examine 
some  of  the  corn  to  see  if  germination  has  commenced ;  if  no  signs 
of  sprouting  appear,  the  seed  is  bad  ;  procure  other,  and  plant 
again.  When  fairly  up,  it  is  often  cut  off  by  the  cut-worm  ;  should 
any  spears  be  cut  off,  examine  every  morning  for  worms,  and  destroy 
them,  and  in  the  mean  time,  soak  more  seed,  and  plant  it  in  the  same 
hills,  as  they  often  take  every  spear,  in  spite  of  every  precaution.  A 
farmer  informed  me  last  season,  that  he  saved  his  corn  by  digging 
small  holes  near  the  hills,  which  acted  as  traps,  and  caught  multitudes 
of  these  ravenous  creatures.  He  went  to  the  field  every  morning 
before  sunrise,  and  gathered  them  in  a  basin  to  feed  his  fowls.  When 
all  danger  from  the  worms  has  passed,  thin  the  corn,  leaving  three 
stalks  in  each  hill ;  hoe  frequently,  but  do  not  draw  the  soil  to  the 
roots ;  if  suckers  appear,  slip  them  carefully  off,  without  wounding 
the  main  stalk.  Early  Darling  is  the  best  for  the  first  crop  ;  it  ripens 
within  a  week  of  the  Tuscarora,  the  earliest  corn.  Large  Sugar,  is 
the  finest  variety,  much  before  Stowel  or  any  of  the  new  varieties. 
Corn  will  soon  run  out,  if  planted  on  the  same  ground ;  for  that  reason 
the  seed  should  be  often  changed. 

Early  Potatoes. — Procure  early  varieties,  such  as  Lady  fingers, 
Early  June,  etc. ;  plant  in  rows,  running  north  and  south  if  conve- 
nient, that  they  may  all  have  the  early  sun  alike ;  the  seed  end  is  said 
to  be  a  week  earlier  than  the  other  parts  of  the  potato ;  for  that 
reason  the  two  parts  better  be  planted  separately ;  drop  the  sets  in 
the  rows,  six  inches  apart,  and  cover ;  hoe  frequently,  but  do  not  ridge 
the  rows  much.  Potatoes  can  be  forwarded  by  cutting  the  sets 
early,  partly  drying  them  by  the  air  (not  by  heat),  and  then  allowing 
them  to  sprout  either  in  pots  in  a  hot  bed,  or  boxes  by  the  kitchen 
stove ;  they  must  be  planted  out  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  the 
sprouts,  and  unless  the  weather  is  warm,  protected  by  a  light  litter  for 
a  week  or  so.  Potatoes  for  winter  can  be  bought  of  farmers  cheaper 
than  they  can  be  raised  in  a  garden. 


KITCHEN    GARDEN,  WITH    PLAN.  317 

Sweet  Potatoes. — These  require  warm,  dry  soil,  sand  is  the  best; 
make  Mils  six  feet  apart,  as  large  in  circumference  as  a  half-bushel, 
and  four  inches  above  the  level  of  the  ground  ;  procure  sets  from  a 
hot  bed  {see  Hot  Beds),  and  plant  two  small  or  one  very  strong  plant, 
ia  the  centre  of  each  hill ;  they  must  be  protected  from  cut-worms,  and 
the  only  cultivation  required  is,  to  keep  the  ground  free  from  weeds, 
and  lift-  the  vines  once  every  week  from  the  hill,  to  prevent  their 
taking  root,  as  they  will  do,  if  not  disturbed,  producing  small  roots 
from  every  joint,  which  prevents  the  growth  of  the  tubers.  Gather 
the  potatoes  before  they  are  touched  by  the  frost. 

Khubarb. — Procure  Early  Ked  and  Victoria  rhubarb  plants,  two 
or  three  years  old ;  prepare  a  richly  manured  bed,  set  the  Victoria 
four  and  Early  Ked  three  feet  apart ;  do  not  cut  them  the  first  season. 
Two-year-old  plants  are  as  large  as  are  profitable  to  purchase.  The 
Giant,  or  Mammoth  sorts,  are  not  as  pleasant  flavored  as  the  smaller 
kinds.  The  principal  thing  is,  to  have  them  early ;  cover  the  crown 
with  coarse  litter  from  the  stable,  before  frost  sets  in ;  in  the  spring 
remove  it  from  the  crown,  letting  it  lie  for  a  month,  or  until  the  plant 
has  made  several  leaves,  after  which,  fork  it  into  the  ground ;  do  not 
allow  it  to  bloom  unless  wanting  the  seed ;  if  this  is  desired,  select 
the  most  desirable  root,  and  let  the  first  seed  stalk  grow,  discarding 
all  others ;  select  a  centre  blossom,  and  pull  off  the  remainder.  Gather 
the  seed  as  soon  as  ripe,  by  cutting  the  whole  stalk ;  as  it  is  very  light, 
it  will  fall,  if  allowed  to  become  dry,  and  be  blown  away.  The  second 
year  cut  moderately ;  a  barrel  without  heads,  set  over  the  plant,  as 
soon  as  the  weather  becomes  mild,  will  make  the  stalks  more  tender 
and  less  acid ;  they  must  be  removed  when  the  hot  summer  weather 
comes  on.  If  plants  are  raised  from  the  seed,  they  must  be  planted 
in  a  shady  place,  or  else  shaded  from  the  sun  at  midday ;  they  require 
the  first  season,  plenty  water  ;  the  stalks  can  be  cut  the  third  season ; 
the  plants  will  not  always  prove  the  same  variety  as  the  seed,  they 
are  sometimes  better  and  often  not  as  good  as  the  parent  plant. 

Asparagus. — To  raise  from  seed,  select  seed  from  strong  plants, 
and  sow  it  thinly  on  a  bed  of  unusually  rich  soil ;  let  them  remain  one 
year,  keeping  the  bed  free  from  weeds,  and  the  soil  loose ;  the  plants 
will  be  one  year  behind  those  purchased  from  the  nursery.  Prepare 
the  bed  in  the  following  manner,  and  remember  it  cannot  be  made 
too  rich :  remove  the  whole  soil  four  feet  deep,  put  a  layer  of  bone 
from  the  slaughter-house,  of  about  six  inches,  throw  in  six  inches 
of  long  manure,  and  pack  it  to  the  bones ;  sprinkle  in  a  layer  of  salt, 


318  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

throw  in  about  three  inches  of  soil,  then  put  in  one  foot  of  fresh 
manure  from  the  stable,  just  as  it  is  with  the  straw,  mixed  with  it ; 
have  ready,  if  possible,  a  pile  of  old  manure,  well  decomposed,  that  has 
not  been  exposed  to  weather,  and  two  barrels  of  house  slop ;  put  six 
inches  of  good  soil  on  the  manure,  and  a  layer  of  salt ;  throw  on  it  the 
house  water ;  this  is  to  furnish  ready-made  ammonia  for  the  young 
plants.  We  have  now  two  and  a  half  feet  of  the  bed  filled ;  the  bed 
must  now  be  filled  up  with  the  old  manure,  and  the  best  part  of  the  soil, 
with  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  ashes,  mixed  thoroughly  together ;  when 
finished,  it  should  be  six  inches  higher  than  the  other  parts  of  the 
garden,  to  allow  for  the  settling  of  the  long  manure,  etc. ;  if  the  bed 
has  been  made  early  enough,  let  it  settle  a  week  before  planting, 
though  this  is  not  important ;  draw  a  line  both  length  and  breadth- 
wise of  the  bed,  so  as  to  form  squares,  and  mark  it  out  regularly  in 
diamond  form,  allowing  each  plant  to  be  eighteen  inches  apart,  and 
put  a  stake  where  each  plant  is  to  be  set ;  open  the  ground  suffi- 
ciently deep  to  allow  the  roots  to  spread  out  as  they  naturally  grow, 
and  at  the  same  time  cover  the  crowns  two  inches  with  the  soil ; 
leave  the  stakes  for  the  first  year,  that  the  plants  can  be  replaced 
without  trouble,  should  any  fail.  The  first  of  April  is  the  most  cer- 
tain time  to  transplant  the  plants,  as  they  often  winter-kill  when 
removed  in  the  fall ;  the  bed  can  be  prepared  in- the  fall,  if  more  con- 
venient, and  planted  in  April.  If  plants  are  procured  at  the  nur- 
series, choose  those  one  year  old  of  the  variety  called  Purple  Top ; 
always  cover  the  bed  every  fall  with  coarse  litter  from  the  barn. 
After  the  first  season,  sprinkle  the  beds,  so  that  they  look  white, 
with  salt,  every  autumn,  and  empty  all  the  old  brine  on  them  in 
the  spring;  the  beds  will  do  to  cut  lightly  the  third  year;  use  a 
pointed  knife,  and  be  careful  in  cutting  not  to  wound  the  young 
sprouts  below  the  surface  of  the  ground  ;  stop  cutting  the  first  of  July, 
or  the  beds  will  become  exhausted.  It  would  be  well  never  to  let 
the  seeds  form,  but  at  least  they  should  not  be  allowed  to  fall  on  the 
bed,  as  they  will  grow,  and  fill  it  in  a  few  years  with  young  seedlings. 
Never  allow  branches  to  be  cut  from  the  bed  while  in  the  growing 
state.  When  the  leaves  turn  yellow,  cut  the  stalks,  and  remove  them 
to  the  manure  pile ;  if  they  have  seeds,  throw  them  to  the  chickens, 
or  the  whole  garden  will  become  an  asparagus  bed ;  dress  the  bed, 
removing  all  weeds,  salt  and  cover  with  litter  as  before  directed ;  in 
the  spring,  remove  the  litter  and  spade  it  in  the  walks  between  the 
beds ;  let  it  remain  until  fall,  then  throw  some  of  the  rich  soil  from 
the  walks  on  the  bed,  and  carefully  fork  it  in ;  do  this  yearly,  and  an 


KITCHEN    GARDEN,   WITH    PLAN.  319 

asparagus  bed  will  last  prime  twenty  years.     The  Giant  varieties  are 
only  the  old  varieties  highly  cultivated. 

Plan  of  Kitchen  Gaeden  Explained.— The  outside  borders  are 
four  feet  wide,  principal  walks  the  same  width,  the  smaller  two  feet 
wide,  the  squares  fourteen  by  sixteen,  the  whole  occupying  eighty  by 
eighty-four  feet ;  fruit  and  vegetable  together  eighty-four,  by  one 
hundred  and  forty ;  No.  39,  squash ;  40,  sweet  corn ;  41,  tomatoes ;  42, 
melons ;  43,  peas ;  44,  celery" and  beans ;  45,  cucumbers ;  46,  early  beets, 
parsnips,  salsify,  turnips ;  47,  late  beets,  nasturtiums,  peppers,  onions, 
egg  plant,  each  a  bed  ;  48,  early  potatoes ;  49,  cauliflower  and  early 
York  cabbage;  50,  sweet  potatoes ;  35,  okra,  marteneas,  and  herbs;  36, 
strawberries ;  37,  asparagus ;  38,  rhubarb.  Parsley,  lettuce,  radishes, 
and  peppergrass,  can  be  grown  on  the  edges  of  the  borders  or  beds. 
This  plan  is  intended  to  occupy  a  half-acre,  with  the  comforts  of  life, 
and  at  the  same  time,  so  arrange  the  garden  that  it  will  make  a  good 
appearance  without  devoting  most  of  the  land  to  ornamental  shrub- 
bery, etc.  The  front  and  side  yards  can  be  arranged  to  suit  the 
taste. 


CHAPTER  II. 

FRUIT   GAEDEN. 


Remarks. — On  a  half-acre  of  ground  it  would  be  absurd  to  plant 
winter  fruit,  as  this  can  always  be  obtained  in  favorable  seasons  for 
comparatively  small  prices  from  farmers  who  raise  quantities  for 
market.  I  shall  only 'notice  such  trees  and  fruits  as  are  valuable  in 
the  garden,  because  rarely  to  be  found  in  a  country  market,  and  con- 
sequently high-priced.  Early  apples  often  bring  from  twelve  shillings 
to  two  dollars  per  bushel,  while  in  the  same  market  good  fall  and 
winter  fruit  can  be  bought  for  from  two  to  four  shillings.  Peaches 
grow  fast,  take  less  room,  and  consequently  are  more  valuable  to  the 
family;  a  limited  supply  of  cherries ;  one  or  two  standard,  and  a  few 
dwarf  pears  and  cherries ;  two  or  three  plums,  raspberries,  currants, 
and  strawberries,  will  be  all  that  can  be  grown  with  profit  in  a  small 
fruit-yard.  Many  crowd  the  kitchen-garden,  clothes-yard,  etc.,  with 
every  tree  they  hear  of  as  being  superior,  which  in  the  end  prevents 
their  enjoying  any  fruit  worth  mentioning  from  their  own  trees. 
Fruit  trees  must  have  room,  or  the  roots  soon  interlace,  the  trees  be- 


320  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

come  sickly,  and  disappoint  the  planter,  who  has  waited  in  vain  for 
the  fruits  of  his  toil.  One  tree  properly  grown  is  worth  a  dozen  such 
as  are  usually  seen  in  crowded  yards  and  gardens.  Apple  trees  should 
never  be  nearer  each  other  than  twenty  feet,  and  even  then  the  roots 
ought  to  be  pruned.  In  orchards  we  place  them  from  thirty  to  forty 
feet  apart.  Pears  and  cherries  the  same  distance.  Peaches  and  dwarfs 
will  do  at  ten  and  twelve,  by  low-heading  and  root-pruning.  This 
will  be  found  described  in  another  part  of  the  work.  Each  tree 
ought 'to  be  staked  when  planted,  for  two  reasons:  the  first,  that  the 
roots  may  remain  in  one  position  to  insure  the  growth  of  the  tree, 
and  the  other,  for  the  sake  of  symmetry,  as  a  tree  will  generally  bend 
to  the  wind,  and  become  crooked,  until  quite  large.  Care  must  be 
taken  when  staking  trees  not  to  bind  or  chafe  them.  If  bound,  the 
sap  cannot  flow  with  equality,  and  ridges  are  often  made  by  the  bind- 
ings. -Examine  often,  especially  if  the  trees  are  in  a  thrifty  state, 
that  this  danger  may  be  avoided.  The  tallies  are  often  forgotten  until 
the  wire  is  grown  over  by  the  bark,  when  the  tree  must  be  nearly 
girded  to  remove  it.  Leave  no  tallies  on  trees,  but  draw  a  plan  of 
your  fruit  garden,  or  orchard,  numbering  each  tree,  and  you  will  find 
it  much  safer  than  to  depend  on  tallies  or  memory  for  the  names  of 
your  fruit. 

Plan  of  Feuit  Gaeden. — Sixty  feet  wide  and  eighty-eight  long. 
No.  1,  early  harvest  apple ;  No.  2,  early  sweet  bough ;  No.  3,  sum- 
mer queen ;  No.  4,  the  Bartlett  pear ;  No.  5,  Flemish  beauty ;  No.  6, 
Governor  Wood  cherry ;  No.  7,  Downer's  late ;  No.  8,  black  heart ; 
No.  9,  green  gage  plum ;  No.  10,  frost  gage,  or  winter  damson ;  No. 
11,  Breda  apricot;  No.  12,  nectarine  violet;  No.  13,  red  Siberian 
crab ;  No.  14,  dwarf  cherry  plumstone  morello ;  No.  15,  Downer's 
early ;  No.  16,  American  heart ;  No.  17,  dwarf  pears,  Maria  Louisa ; 
No.  18,  white  Doyanne ;  No.  19,  Louisa  Bonne,  of  Jersey;  -No.  20, 
Orange  Quince ;  No.  21,  early  York  serate  peach ;  No.  22,  large  early 
York ;  No.  23,  George  IY. ;  No.  24,  Cooledge's  favorite ;  No.  25, 
Crawford's  late  ;  No.  26,  old  Mixon  free ;  No.  27,  Morris  white ;  No. 
28,  snow.  The  apples,  pears,  plums,  and  cherries,  stand  twenty  feet 
apart ;  the  rows  commencing  four  feet  inside  the  fence.  The  borders 
around  the  garden  are  occupied  by  small  fruit ;  the  border  next  the 
side  fence  (No.  24)  is  intended  to  extend  through  the  kitchen-garden, 
and  is  the  best  spot  for  blackberries ;  it  will  contain  twenty-three 
plants  six  feet  apart.  Plant  one  root  to  each  stool ;  procure  the  New 
Rochelle.    Against  the  back  fence  (No.  30)  plant  raspberries ;  the 


FRUIT    GARDEN.  321 

Hudson  Kiver  Antwerp,  three  plants  to  each  stool,  four  feet  apart. 
It  will  take  seventy-five  plants,  making  twenty-five  stools.  On  the 
opposite  side  of  the  kitchen-garden  (No.  31)  plant  one  dozen  stools  of 
Ohio  ever-bearing,  and  a  dozen  American  white.  The  border  of  the 
fruit-garden  (No.  32)  is  the  best  place  for  gooseberries ;  Houghton's 
seedling"  is  the  only  variety  entirely  free  from  mould.  There  are 
many  large  varieties,  but,  unless  extra  pains  are  taken  with  them, 
they  are  entirely  worthless,  by  reason  of  the  mildew  which  gathers 
upon  them.  This  border  will  take  fourteen  bushes,  four  feet  apart. 
Borders  33  and  34  are  designed  for  currants ;  each  will  grow  twenty- 
one  plants,  four  feet  apart.  Select  for  these,  ten  of  old  red  Dutch, 
four  of  white  grape,  seven  of  Prince  Albert,  six  of  Victoria,  seven  of 
long  bunched  red,  seven  of  cherry,  four  English  black,  and  three  of 
white  Dutch.  This  variety  gives  currants  a  longer  season  than  the 
one  old  variety.  Border  35  in  kitchen-garden  is  intended  for  grapes ; 
there  will  be  room  for  ten  vines  eight  feet  apart.  Procure  fof  the 
West  and  North,  Isabella,  Concord,  and  Diana.  These  are  the  only 
tested  varieties  that  do  well  at  the  North  and  West.  I  would  advise 
but  one  Isabella,  as  they  do  not  always  ripen ;  four  Diana,  a  light- 
colored  sweet  grape,  resembling  the  Catawba  in  flavor,  and  five  of 
the  Concord,  which  seldom  fails  to  ripen  its  fruit.  Trellises  must  be 
constructed  for  the  grapes.  Particular  directions  for  their  cultivation 
will  be  given  in  another  part  of  this  work.  The  peaches  and  dwarfs 
stand  ten  feet  apart.  The  borders  are  four  feet  wide,  small  walks  the 
same ;  the  walk  between  the  fruit  and  vegetable  garden  is  eight  feet 
wide.  For  four  or  five  years  peaches  or  any  dwarf  trees  can  be 
placed  between  the  apples,  but  after  this  they  should  be  removed. 
The  ground  occupied  by  all  the  fruit  trees  can  be  planted  with  vege- 
tables, if  desired,  for  a  few  years ;  no  high  crops,  like  corn,  should  be 
allowed.  If  seeded  down,  a  ring  as  large  as  the  branches  must  be 
left  free  from  grass,  and  the  soil '  should  be  frequently  stirred.  (See 
Plan  of  Kitchen  Garden.) 

Planting  Trees  and  Small  Fruits. — If  possible,  plant  those 
fruits  troubled  by  the  curculio  by  themselves.  (See  Preventives 
of  Curculio,  etc.)  Having  fixed  on  a  plan,  prepared  the  soil,  and 
chosen  the  trees,  the  next  thing  is  to  set  them  properly.  Never  allow 
trees  or  roots  of  any  kind  to  be  exposed  to  frost,  sun,  or  wind.  As 
soon  as  received  from  the  nursery  bury  the  roots  in  a  trench,  unless  the 
ground  is  frosty ;  if  so,  wrap  them  in  matting,  old  carpet,  or  any  other 
convenient  article,  pour  water  over,  and  lay  them  on  the  cellar  bottom. 
14* 


322  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Prepare  holes  for  planting  before  taking  out  the  roots.  For  apples  they 
ought  to  be  three  feet  deep  ;  the  first  foot  filled  with  coarse  bones,  the 
next  with  long  manure,  and  the  remaining  foot  with  rich  soil,  mixed 
with  fine  old  manure.  The  ground  should  be  two  inches  lower  in  the 
hole  than  the  surrounding  soil.  Having  the  holes  ready,  proceed  to 
trim  the  roots  ;  cut  oh?  every  wounded  spot  smoothly  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  remove  any  branches  broken  or  superfluous.  Trim  always 
for  a  low  head  ;  the  first  branch  should  be  not  over  two  feet  from  the 
ground,  if  very  low  heads  are  desired.  This  trimming  should  be  done 
where  the  wind  will  not  dry,  or  the  sun  scorch  the  roots.  Dip  them 
immediately  in  a  batter  of  mud,  and  have  a  pailful  ready,  rather  thin,  to 
pour  on  the  tree  when  planted.  Drive  the  stakes  firmly  in  the  centre 
of  the  holes,  taking  sight  from  one  to  the  other,  to  be  sure  they  are 
straight  from  every  point.  Place  the  body  of  the  tree  firmly  against 
the  stake,  in  the  same  position  in  which  it  stood  in  the  nursery,  that 
the  bark  may  not  be  obliged  to  become  acclimated  the  second  time. 
With  the  hand,  work  the  fine  soil  into  every  crevice,  pressing  it  firmly 
as  yon  proceed ;  when  nearly  finished,  dash  on  with  force  a  pail  of 
water,  and  then  a  pail  of  mud  and  water,  not  too  thick  to  flow ; 
fill  the  hole  immediately,  and  press  the  soil  very  lightly.  The  tree 
when  finished  planting,  should  stand  four  inches  higher  than  the  other 
parts  of  the  garden.  If  the  garden  has  been  trenched,  as  described 
before,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  prepare  the  holes  as  described. 
Bone-dust  can  be  added  as  a  top  dressing  at  any  other  time.  Mulch 
with  coarse  litter,  chip  manure,  spent  tanbark,  or  sawdust,  four 
inches  thick,  and  let  it  remain  all  summer.  Wrap  the  tree  with  some 
soft  material,  and  fasten  it  to  the  stake  with  a  leather  strap.  Ex- 
amine often,  for  fear  the  strap  may  become  too  tight,  and  bind  the 
tree.  Standard  pears  and  cherries  should  grow  slowly,  and  therefore 
do  not  need  as  much  stimulating  manure  as  apples.  Dwarfs  can 
hardly  be  too  highly  manured.  The  holes  for  standard  pears  can 
be  filled  with  bones,  ashes,  and  good  soil.  Cherries,  but  little  man- 
ure, ashes,  lime,  bones,  etc.  If  the  cherry  grows  too  fast,  the  bark 
splits  ;  and  the  standard  pear,  when  too  highly  stimulated,  is  in 
more  danger  from  fire-blight.  The  reason  why  dwarf  pears  re- 
quire high  manuring  is,  that  the  roots  of  the  quince  being  so 
very  small  they  are  incapable  of  taking  up  sufficient  nourishment 
to  perfect  the  fruit,  unless  it  is  ready  prepared  for  them.  The  roots 
of  most  standards  reach  after  the  richest  of  the  earth,  and  unless 
drowned  or  choked,  will  by  their  own  unaided  efforts  thrive  and 
flourish  ;    while   the   poor   dwarf,   like   a   Chinese   lady,   must   be 


FRUIT    GARDEN.  32*3 

cared  for  by  its  friends,  or  become  a  worthless  cumberer  of  the 
ground.  Peaches  require  high  manuring,  but  only  for  the  time  being. 
The  food  furnished  for  the  apples  is  calculated  to  last  for  years ;  but 
the  peach,  being  comparatively  a  short-lived  tree,  needs  its  nourish- 
ment nearer  the  surface.  Iron  is  necessary  for  the  peach,  it  will  be 
well  to  bury  old  iron  near  the  root.  Brimstone,  put  near  the  trunk  of 
the  tree,  only  covered  with  soil,  is  said  to  prevent  the  ravages  of  the 
borer.  {See  Boeee.)  Manure  plums  pretty  high,  with  bones,  lime, 
ashes,  and  salt,  not  too  much  of  the  latter ;  for  small  trees,  a  quart 
below  the  manure,  and  another  scattered  on  the  soil,  is  sufficient.  Plums 
grow  wild  on  the  borders  of  salt  marshes,  and  naturally  like  salt, 
though  too  much  would  kill  them ;  give  the  tree  a  good  dressing  of 
ashes,  mixed  with  the  other  manures.  It  is  best  to  dig  holes  for  every 
tree,  and,  unless  the  soil  has  before  been  trenched,  as  deep  as  three  feet 
for  every  kind  of  fruit  except  the  peach ;  two  is  sufficient  for  them. 
Quinces  need  as  rich  soil  as  the  dwarf  pear  to  do  well ;  they  also  like 
salt,  and  will  bear  considerable,  like  the  plum,  yearly.  Apricots  and 
nectarines  are  to  be  treated  like  the  peach.  Currants,  to  be  as  fine  as 
possible,  need  high  and  deep  manuring.  Raspberries  and  gooseberries, 
to  do  well,  must  have  rich  soil  with  plenty  of  old  manure.  Blackber- 
ries should,  the  growers  say,  be  as  well  cared  for  as  raspberries,  to 
insure  a  good  crop  of  fine  berries. 

Geapes. — Grapes  should  be  manured  very  much  like  the  apple, 
ocly  using  more  ashes,  mixing  them  in  well,  as  the  border  is  filled ; 
when  a  number  is  to  be  planted,  the  whole  border  should  be  pre- 
pared ;  if  the  border  has  been  trenched,  it  will  be  sufficient  to  spade 
in  ashes  before  planting,  and  top  dress  with  bone-dust;  all  roots 
should  be  panted  as  directed  for  apples. 

Steawbeeeies. — These  need  deep  tillage ;  Downing  advises  burying 
two  feet  of  long  manure  one  foot  below  the  surface,  and  filling  up  the 
othej^oot  with  rich  soil  mixed  with  chip  and  stable  manure  well 
decomposed,  but  not  wasted  by  rain  and  evaporation ;  they  also  like 
ashes.  Plant  the  large  varieties  two  and  the  smaller  one  and  a  half 
feet  apart.  April  is  the  most  sure  month  for  planting,  but  on  account 
of  obtaining  new  plants,  it  is  usually  put  off"  until  August,  The  pis- 
tillate varieties  will  not  bear  perfect  fruit  without  a  staminate  or  per- 
fect blossom  near  ;  it  requires  one  perfect  plant  to  three  pistillates ;  but 
it  is  unnecessary  to  mix  the  plants  in  the  bed ;  a  row  near  of  the  per- 
fect blossoms  will  fertilize  three  rows  of  the  pistillate.  A  person,  by 
observing,  can  readily  distinguish  the  difference  in  the  flowers ;  the 


324  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

perfect  has  both  stamens  and  pistils;  the  pistillate  has  no  perfect 
stamens,  hut  a  pistil ;  the  barren  has  many  stamens  but  no  pistil ;  the 
latter  is  of  course  worthless,  and,  while  so  many  good,  perfect  varieties 
can  be  obtained,  entirely  unnecessary.  Dip  the  plants  in  mud,  after 
first  taking  off  all  but  one  or  two  of  the  youngest  leaves ;  if  the  season 
is  dry,  water  thoroughly  the  hole  before  putting  in  the  plant,  and  cover 
immediately  from  the  sun ;  remove  the  covering  at  night,  that  the  dew 
may  have  effect,  and  keep  down  the  runners ;  the  easiest  way  to  do 
this  is  to  have  a  sort  of  chopping-knife,  made  with  a  long  handle,  with 
which  the  cultivator  can  cut  the  runners  without  stooping,  by  passing 
the  knife  along  the  line  of  the  plants,  removing  the  runners  or  not,  as 
desired.  The  soil  should  be  frequently  stirred,  and  a  slight  covering 
thrown  over  them  before  frost  sets  in.  The  next  spring  clear  the  beds, 
and  loosen  the  soil ;  when  the  plants  are  in  bloom,  scatter  between  the 
rows  ashes  or  lime,  and  rake  it  in.  A  mulch  of  clean  straw,  or  some- 
thing of  the  kind,  should  be  spread  around  the  plants  to  protect  the 
berries  from  the  sand,  and  the  plants  from  the  sun.  If  the  season  is 
dry,  plenty  of  water  must  be  artificially  supplied  ;  indeed,  the  berries 
are  sweeter  when  watered  in  this  manner,  than  by  rain.  If  no  plants 
are  wanted,  do  not  let  them  run,  but  keep  the  beds  in  good  order  the 
whole  season ;  cover  lightly  every  fall,  and  the  beds  will  last  prime 
three  years,  and  do  pretty  well  the  fourth. 

Perfect  Flowers :  "Wilson's  Albany,  a  fine,  rather  acid  berry ;  Chil- 
ian, very  fine ;  Boston  Pine,  needs  moisture  and  high  cultivation ; 
Le  Barron,  is  a  good- berry  and  fair  bearer  ;  and  Longworth's  Prolific. 
There  are  many  others  equally  good,  we  presume,  which  we  have  not 
as  yet  tested. 

The  best  pistillates  which  we  have  tested,  are  the  Monroe  Scarlet, 
a  good  bearer,  rather  tart ;  Prolific  Orange,  good  bearer,  sweeter  than 
the  preceding ;  Hovey's  Seedling,  succeeds  in  some  localities,  and  in 
others  fails  entirely ;  M'Aboy's  Superior ;  and  a  seedling  of  omy)wn, 
which  we  have  named  the  Peninsular  Berry,  is  a  very  fine  Derry, 
large,  prolific,  fine-flavored,  and  continues  in  bearing  a  long  time. 

The  Early  Scarlet  is  a  small  berry,  much  recommended  formerly 
as  a  fertilizer,  but  as  there  are  now  so  many  large  berries  with  perfect 
blossoms  in  cultivation,  they  are  going  out  of  use.  The  Ohio  Mam- 
moth is  a  large,  hollow  berry,  very  sour,  and,  when  better  can  be 
had  for  fertilizing,  should  be  discarded. 

Gooseberries. — After  the  border  is  well  prepared,  set  the  plants 


FRUIT    GARDEN.  325 

three  feet  distant  from  each  other  in  the  row,  placing  them  in  the 
centre  of  the  bed.  Mildew  is  the  most  effectually  prevented  by  keep- 
ing the  whole  border  cool  and  damp,  by  mulching  six  inches  deep, 
through  the  whole  season ;  salt  hay  is  the  best  article  to  mulch  with  ; 
where  this  cannot  be  obtained,  fine  soft  hay,  that  will  pack  readily, 
will  do,  sprinkled  with  salted  water.  Uncover  the  roots  early  in  the 
spring,  and  work  around  each  plant  one  or  two  shovelfuls  of  good 
manure ;  train  on  a  single  stem  six  inches  from  the  ground ;  trim  in 
February  or  March,  thinning  out  the  shoots  quite  freely  ;  when  a  bush 
needs  renewing,  cut  back  to  a  good  bud  near  the  main  stem  ;  when 
the  border  is  prepared  for  the  season,  put  on  the  mulch  as  before 
directed.  Another  method  of  preventing  mildew  is  the  renewing 
system,  with  high  cultivation  and  mulching.  Plant  in  the  spring, 
two  feet  apart,  well-rooted  plants,  from  twelve  to  fifteen  inches  high, 
one  year  old,  trimmed  to  one  straight  stem ;  stake,  and  let  them  grow 
at  random  for  the  first  season,  keeping  the  soil  well  worked ;  the  next 
February,  cut  off  nearly  a  third  of  the  last  season's  growth  of  the 
first  bush,  leaving  it  a  good  shape  ;  the  second  bush,  cut  back  to  one 
or  two  buds  near  the  main  stem ;  the  third  bush  as  the  first,  and  so 
on,  until  the  whole  are  trimmed.  When  the  frost  is  out  of  the  ground, 
work  into  the  border  around  each  root,  two  or  three  shovels  of  ma- 
nure, and  mulch  six  inches  with  salted  hay,  even  though  it  reaches 
the  first  branches;  the  following  winter  reverse  the  process.  A 
northern  aspect,  is  said  to  be  the  best  for  gooseberries ;  mildew  is 
also  said  to  be  prevented  by  cutting  out  all  shoots  of  a  light  green 
color,  and  also  by  pinching  out  the  points  of  the  growing  shoots, 
during  the  early  development  of  the  fruit,  and  afterwards  by  rubbing 
any  buds  bursting  into  growth  while  the  crop  is  maturing.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  sprinkle  the  bushes  with  suds  every  washing  day ;  some 
advise  sprinkling  with  water  a  little  salted ;  but  if  this  is  used,  care 
must  be  taken  that  the  water  is  not  too  salt,  as  this  would  kill  the 
leaves.  Gooseberries  are  increased  by  suckers  and  cuttings;  some 
of  the  largest  are,  Crown  Bob,  Bunkerhill,  Green  Ocean,  and  "Walnut ; 
in  England,  these  large  varieties  do  well,  but  in  this  country  they  usu- 
ally are  worthless,  though  it  is  said,  high  cultivation  will  insure  a 
good  crop  of  perfect  fruit. 

Blackberries. — It  is  useless  to  attempt  cultivating  the  common 
blackberry ;  it  will  be  found  labor  lost.  The  Kew  Eochelle,  however, 
well  repays  the  cultivator  by  its  large  crops  of  delicious  fruit,  for  all 
his  care  and  expense.    It  will,  like  the  currant,  bear  fruit  without 


326  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

extra  labor  and  expense  in  the  preparation  of  the  soil,  and,  like  it, 
also  will  pay  for  good  care  and  deep  culture ;  they  delight  in  a  deep 
soil,  moist  and  light,  with  considerable  vegetable  matter,  but  not 
sandy  ;  it  should  be  deeply  trenched,  as  before  described,  but  instead 
of  a  foot  of  manure  in  the  bottom  of  the  trenches,  use  straw  litter 
from  the  barn,  leaves  or  any  other  vegetable  matter,  with  now  and 
then  a  sprinkling  of  ashes,  and  fill  up  with  rich  soil,  composed  of  a 
mixture  of  decomposed  vegetable  matter,  some  barnyard  manure,  and 
good  soil ;  set  them  six  feet  apart,  and  if  put  out  in  rows,  eight  feet 
between  the  rows.  The  ground  should  be  kept  loose  and  free  from 
weeds.  The  next  spring  cut  off  one- third  of  every  branch  and  stem, 
and  mulch  six  inches  deep  with  straw.  In  the  fall,  cut  out  all  the 
old,  and  shorten  the  new  canes,  to  about  five  feet  high ;  they  can 
be  trained  to  upright  stakes,  or  be  confined  in  place,  by  means  of  wire 
run  through  posts  five  feet  high  ;  the  first,  one  foot  from  the  ground, 
the  next  two,  and  the  third  eighteen  inches,  or  two  others  the  same 
distance  as  the  two  first ;  the  canes  can  be  tied  with  strings  to  the 
wires,  or  bent  while  young,  and  fastened  by  weaving  in  and  out 
through  them  ;  the  old  canes  must  be  cut  out  every  fall,  and  in  the 
spring  the  new  canes  shortened,  the  mulching  spaded  in  ■  with  a  very 
little  ashes,  and  new  applied.  Plants  trained  in  this  manner  will  well 
repay  the  trouble  by  their  large  crops  and  superior  fruit.  Our  opinion 
is,  that  a  dozen  well  cared  for,  would  be  worth  more  than  a  dozen 
and  a  half  entirely  neglected.  The  old  saying,  "  A  thing  well  done, 
is  twice  done,"  is  never  more  truly  spoken  than  when  applied  to  agri- 
culture.   Blackberries  are  increased  by  suckers. 

Raspberries. — These  require  rich,  deep  soil,  with  a  large  propor- 
tion of  vegetable  matter ;  therefore  about  the  same  preparation  of  soil 
is  needed  as  for  blackberries.  The  stools  should  be  composed  of  three 
plants,  six  inches  from  each  other,  set  in  a  triangular  form,  and  distant 
the  one  from  the  other,  four  feet ;  the  old  canes  should  be  cut  out  as 
soon  as  the  plant  has  fruited.  In  the  spring  dig  into  the  border  a 
good  dressing  of  well-prepared  compost,  or  if  not  at  hand,  a  layer 
of  stable  litter,  ashes,  and  chip  manure.  The  raspberry  will  pay 
well  for  extra  care ;  mulching  is  very  beneficial ;  train  to  posts,  set 
between  the  stools,  so  as  to  bring  them  within  four  feet  from  each 
post,  and  two  from  each  plant ;  nail  firmly,  a  flat  piece  of  webbing  or 
soft  leather  on  one  side  of  the  post,  have  a  slit  cut  in  the  other 
end,  and  a  strong  brass  or  iron  knob  driven  into  the  post ;  divide  the 
stools,  taking  half  the  canes  of  one,  and  half  of  another,  lay  the  ends 


FRUIT    GARDEN.  327 

together  on  the  posts,  and  bntton  them  down  with  the  webbing 
nailed  to  the  post.  This  should  be  done  in  the  spring,  and  at  the  same 
time,  the  canes,  if  too  long,  can  be  cut  off;  in  the  fall,  the  young 
canes  should  be  laid  down,  and  some  of  the  soil  thrown  over  them  ; 
or  if  preferred,  they  can  be  covered  with  straw  without  bending,  but 
the  first  method  is  the  least  trouble.  The  EverbeariDg  should  have 
one-third  to  one-half  of  the  canes  cut  down  to  within  six  inches  of 
the  ground  to  insure  a  fall  crop.  Birds  can  be  kept  from  the  fruit 
by  means  of  nets,  but  in  no  other  way.  Some  raspberries  are  propa- 
gated from  suckers,  and  others  grow  by  layers  only ;  the  American 
"White  is  one  of  the  latter  class ;  the  Antwerps,  and  all  of  that  class, 
should  have  from  one  inch  to  a  foot  cut  from  each  branch  in  August. 
{See  Boeee.) 

Cueeants,  if  planted  from  cuttings,  should  have  all  the  buds  cut 
out  below  the  surface ;  they  should  be  cut  late  in  the  fall,  and  buried 
below  frost ;  or  very  early  in  the  spring,  when  the  bushes  are  not 
frozen ;  plant  in  a  cool  border,  after  cutting  them  smooth  and  pointed. 
When  a  year  old,  prepare  a  border,  no  matter  how  rich,  and  plant 
them  four  feet  from  each  other ;  take  good  care  of  them,  keeping  the 
soil  loose,  and  you  will  not  be  obliged  to  pick  over  little  half-grown 
currants,  and  the  neighbors  will  wonder  where  you  obtained  your 
fine  variety.     Their  only  enemy  is  the  borer. 

Pethstng. — The  Apple  needs  less  pruning  than  some  other  fruits. 
If  there  is  too  much  wood  it  should  be  removed,  and  the  head  be 
pruned  to  give  a  good  shape,  all  branches  that  cross  each  other  must 
be  removed  before  they  are  of  much  size.  It  is  an  injury  to  a  tree  to 
be  obliged  to  saw  off  large  limbs,  though  by  carelessness  it  is  often 
necessary. 

Apricots  need  only  to  be  kept  in  good  shape,  without  too  large  a 
head  for  the  body. 

The  Cherry  needs  but  little  pruning,  only  sufficient  to  keep  the 
tree  in  shape.  The  Bigaroons  need  as  much  as  any,  if  not  more ;  the 
long  shoots  that  extend  beyond  the  head  should  be  shortened  every 
September.  * 

The  Peach  should  have  one-third  of  its  last  year's  growth  cut  off 
early  every  spring. 

Nectarines  should  be  treated  in  every  way  as  a  peach. 

Pear — trim  to  form  a  fine  head,  and  afterwards  keep  the  centre 
of  the  tree  rather  open ;  do  not  cut  or  saw  large  branches,  if  it  can  be 
avoided. 


328  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Plum  ;  trim  by  the  same  rule  as  the  pear. 

Quinces  need  but  little  pruning,  merely  sufficient  to  form  a  good- 
shaped  bush. 

Currants  ;  give  a  good  supply  of  manure  every  spring ;  thin  the 
shoots  to  allow  them  to  stand  some  distance  from  each  other,  and 
shorten  the  young  wood  to  about  three  inches  of  the  preceding  year's 
growth. 

Gooseberries ;  trim  closely,  keeping  the  centre  of  the  bush  clear 
for  the  large  varieties ;  Houghton's  seedling  needs  but  little  pruning. 

Raspberries;  cut  out  the  canes  as  soon  as  fruited,  and  shorten 
those  left  in  the  spring  six  inches ;  the  tender  varieties,  if  not  all, 
should  be  stopped  in  August. 

Grapes. — First  Year :  let  one  branch  grow,  and  cut  it  to  two  or 
three  buds  late  in  the  fall. 

Second  Year :  Let  two  branches  grow ;  in  November  cut  them  off, 
leaving  them  four  or  five  feet  long.  The  trellis  must  now  be  built,  if 
not  already  done,  and  these  two  branches  fastened,  one  to  the  right, 
and  the  other  to  the  left,  on  the  lower  rail  of  the  trellis. 

Third  Season :  Let  each  bud  on  the  branches  grow,  and  train  the 
branches  which  they  produce,  perpendicular  to  the  top  of  the  trellis. 

Fourth  Season :  The  vine  is  now  ready  to  fruit,  and  will  produce 
its  first  crop.  After  gathering  the  fruit,  cut  the  lateral  branches 
which  have  grown  through  the  season,  from  the  upright  branches,  t<7 
two  buds  each. 

Fifth  Season :  Allow  but  one  bud  on  each  lateral  to  grow,  pinch' 
ing  off  all  others ;  the  bud  left  should  be  the  one  nearest  the  parent,  un 
less  weak  ;  if  so,  the  next  one. 

Sixth  Season :  Cut  off  that  part  of  the  old  spur  which  extends  be- 
yond the  base  of  the  new  branch,  and  cut  the  new  branch  to  two  buds. 

Seventh  Season  :  Allow  the  bud  nearest  the  main  branch  to  grow, 
unless  weaker  than  the  other ;  if  so,  pinch  it  off,  and  allow  the  further 
bud  to  grow.  Continue  this  yearly.  To  procure  new  wood,  allow  six 
branches  to  grow  trained  in  an  upright  manner ;  cut  two  of  these  to 
one  bud  one  year,  two  others  the  next,  and  two  the  next,  which  will 
give  new  wood  every  three  years.  The  common  method  of  pruning 
the  native  grape,  is  to  cut  to  from  four  to  six  buds  of  the  previous 
year's  growth  on  each  branch.  The  grape  is  a  great  feeder,  and  must 
have  plenty  of  rich  manure ;  wash  water  is  an  excellent  stimulant  for 
it,  applied  once  every  week.  The  foreign  grapes  that  ripen  in  out-door 
air  need  to  be  more  closely  pruned ;  from  two  to  three  buds  is  all  that 


FRUIT    GARDEN.  329 

should  be  left.  The  cuttings  of  last  year's  growth  cut  smooth  at  the 
end,  and  set  in  a  cool  border,  with  two  eyes  below,  and  one  above 
the  ground,  will  make  nice  plants  in  a  year,  of  proper  size  for  a  vine- 
yard. The  cultivators  of  the  present  day  vary  in  their  opinions  of 
the  best  methods  of  summer  pruning,  but  all  advise  the  removal  of 
the  late  pushing  buds,  that  would  produce  blossoms  at  midsummer, 
and  green  fruit  in  the  fall ;  we  succeed  well  by  pinching  off  each 
branch  as  fast  as  it  has  made  five  buds  beyond  the  bunch  of  fruit 
highest  on  the  vine.  Kemove  also  what  the  Germans  call  the  wild 
wood,  or,  what  is  better,  the  buds  from  which  it  would  grow ;  these  be- 
come small  side  branches,  worse  than  useless  to  the  vine.  Look  out 
for  the  grape  worms.     {See  Insects.) 

A  Safe  "Wash  for  Trees. — Heat  over  charcoal  in  an  iron  kettle, 
until  red  hot,  six  pounds  of  the  common  sal  soda  of  the  shops ;  when 
perfectly  free  from  moisture,  having  parted  with  its  carbonic  acid 
and  water,  it  resembles  whitish  ashes,  and  is  ready  for  use.  Dissolve 
one  pound,  of  this  caustic  soda  in  a  gallon  of  soft  water,  and  scrub 
the  trees.  It  removes  decayed  bark,  is  death  to  all  insects,  {see 
Insects  ;)  and  never  kills  the  tree  as  potash  is  too  apt  to  do,  when 
applied  strong.  If  diseased  pears  are  treated  with  this  or  any  other 
wash,  it  is  safe  to  use  a  part  of  the  preparation  for  them,  with  a  sep- 
arate brush,  for  fear  of  communicatiDg  the  disease  to  healthy  trees. 
This  is  useful  to  currants  or  any  other  small  fruits. 


CHAPTER    III. 

FLOWEKS. 

Flower  Garden. — Nothing  is  a  greater  promoter  of  health  than 
agreeable  exercise  in  the  open  air,  and  in  no  way  can  the  rich  and 
the  poor  so  surely  secure  health  and  pleasure  united,  as  in  the  culti- 
vation of  flowers.  The  taste  for  floriculture  improves  rapidly  by  cul- 
tivation, and  none  truly  value  flowers,  who  do  not  enjoy  the  care  of 
them.  The  best  benefits  to  be  derived  from  the  flower-garden  can 
not  be  obtained  through  a  finished  gardener,  as  a  good  dinner  is  en- 
joyed through  the  cook.  Flowers,  to  impart  the  highest  pleasure, 
should  be  cultivated  by  the  same  hand-  that  gathers  them.  Those, 
who  do  not  know  from  experience,  would  hardly  believe  how  much 


330 

happiness  a  bed  of  flowers,  well  cared  for,  may  be  the  means  of  im- 
parting. Exercise  in  the  air,  to  be  beneficial,  consists  in  something 
more  than  machine  locomotion ;  the  mind  needs  change  as  much  or 
more  than  the  body.  A  walk  for  the  sake  of  exercise  alone,  with  no 
present  enjoyment,  fatigues  more  than  it  invigorates;  school  girls 
feel  this  without  analyzing  the  cause,  excusing  themselves,  if  possi- 
ble, from  the  formal  walks  of  the  seminary ;  but  when  a  nutting, 
berrying,  or  botanizing  expedition  is  under  consideration,  the  walk  is 
anticipated  as  a  great  treat,  and  enjoyed  as  such,  to  the  benefit  of 
mind  and  body.  A  motive  for  the  exercise  is  highly  important,  if 
the  person  is  to  be  benefited  by  it,  and  for  this  reason,  in  nine  cases 
out  of  ten,  the  walks  prescribed  by  the  physician  injure  instead  of 
invigorating  the  patient.  "When  a  lady  commences  gardening,  she 
gets  along  very  well  until  she  finds  herself  quite  lame ;  as  soon  as 
this  occurs,  she  decides  that  gardening  disagrees  with  her,  and  gives 
it  up.  Now,  if  she  will  reason  a  little,  the  cause  for  the  lameness 
will  be  found,  generally,  to  be  of  little  consequence,  being  merely 
muscular  fatigue  arising  from  the  new  use  of  the  muscles  alone,  which 
will  gradually  cease  to  trouble  her,  as  they  become  accustomed  to 
their  new  exercise  and  position,  and  once  overcome,  the  trouble  is 
over  entirely  for  the  first  season,  and  will  be  found  of  mnch  less 
moment  ever  after.  The  hard,  rough  work  is  of  course  too  fatiguing 
for  ladies,  but  by  the  use  of  light  tools,  after  the  garden  is  once 
spaded  and  raked,  the  whole  cultivation  of  flowers  will  be  found  a 
light  and  pleasant  employment,  adapted  peculiarly  to  ladies  and  chil- 
dren; the  health  of  whom  will  be  far  better  than  if  they  are  occu- 
pied with  needlework  or  any  other  indoor  employment  the  whole 
day,  and  no  doubt  the  trifling  expense  attending  the  garden  will  be 
fully  met  by  the  decrease  of  doctors'  bills,  journeys  for  health,  tonics, 
etc.  This  chapter  does  not  contain  all  that  it  would  be  pleasant  and 
useful  to  know  of  the  art  of  floriculture,  by  any  means ;  but  sufficient 
information  is  imparted  on  the  subject,  to  enable  any  one  to  cultivate, 
with  success,  a  choice  collection  of  annuals,  biennials,  perennials, 
roses,  bulbs,  etc.  Flowers  should  be  arranged  to  form  good  con- 
trasts in  the  garden,  as  well  as  in  bouquets.  (See  Cutting  axd  Ae- 
eaxglxg  Flowees.) 

A  Few  Hlxts  ox  the  Cultivatiox  of  Flowees. — Flo-raers  should 
not  be  planted  with  vegetables.  A  small  spot  of  ground  devoted  to 
flowers  alone  will  give  more  satisfaction  than  much  more  room  on 
borders  surrounding  the  kitchen  garden.    The  soil  for  flowers  should 


FLOWERS.  331 

be  spaded  very  deep,  and  highy  manured  with  a  well-prepared  com- 
post. Fresh  manure  is  filled  with  seeds  of  weeds,  and  is  too  stimu- 
lating, while  fermenting,  for  delicate  seeds  and  plants  ;  if  fresh,  or,  as 
it  is  called,  long  manure  is  used,  it  should  be  buried  three  feet  deep, 
and  the  top  soil  prepared  with  old  manure  or  composts.  Chicken 
manure,  finely  pulverized,  and  mixed  with  four  parts  of  fine  soil,  is  an 
excellent  top  dressing  for  a  flower-garden.  Borders,  for  small  seeds, 
should  be  thoroughly  pulverized  and  finely  raked ;  lumps  of  clay  often 
prevent  delicate  seeds  from  throwing  up  their  seed  leaves,  after  ger- 
mination has  taken  place.  Small  seeds  should  be  covered  lightly,  the 
soil  pressed  firmly,  and,  if  dry,  watered  a  little  every  day,  or  as  often 
as  the  surface  becomes  dry.  A  weak  solution  of  saltpetre  will  save 
the  seed  from  the  depredation  of  insects,  but  be  careful  the  saltpetre  is 
pure,  as  much  of  it  is  crystallized  with  rock  salt.  Large  seeds,  as  peas, 
Balsams,  Convolvulus,  etc.,  should  stand  overnight  in  a  weak  solution 
of  soda  or  saltpetre ;  large  seeds  must  be  planted  deeper  than  small 
seeds,  peas  half,  Balsams  one-fourth  of  an  inch  deep,  and  other  seeds  by 
the  same  rule  according  to  their  size.  It  is  well  to  put  a  part  of  each 
packet  of  seeds  in  the  soil  early,  and  the  remainder  a  week  later ; 
sometimes  the  early,  and  sometimes  the  late  sown,  doing  the  best. 
A  good  rule  in  all  localities,  is  to  sow  flower  seeds  when  the  peach 
trees  first  bloom ;  some  seeds,  however,  should  be  sown  in  the-  fall, 
as  soon  as  ripe.  It  is  usually  considered  that  nature  indicates  what 
seeds  should  be  sown  thus,  though  it  is  not  always  safe  to  follow 
this  rule,  our  flowers  being,  in  so  many  cases,  exotics  which  need 
nursing  to  insure  their  growth.  Flowers,  that  cast  their'  seeds  as 
soon  as  ripe,  should,  as  a  general  thing,  be  allowed  to  sow  themselves, 
or  the  seeds  should  be  taken  just  before  the  seed-vessel  bursts,  and 
sown  immediately.  The  following  list  comprises  most  of  the  flowers 
in  general  cultivation  which  do  better  for  fall  sowing. 

ANNUALS   THAT  BEAR    TRANSPLANTING,   TO   SOW    IN    SEPTEMBER. 


Asters,  also  in  hot-beds, 

Chinese  Pinks, 

Coreopsis, 

Marigold, 

Orange  Amaranthus, 

Ageratum, 

Portulaca, 

Balsams,  also  in  hot  beds, 

Petunias, 


Mignonette, 

Drummond  Phlox, 

Verbenas,  « 

Forget-me-nots, 

Pansies, 

Sweet  Alyssum, 

Hibiscus, 

Emeralds, 

Zinnias, 


332  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 


THOSE  THAT  WILL  NOT  BEAR  TRANSPLANTING  WITHOUT  RETARDING  THEIR 

GROWTH. 


Candytuft, 

Clarkia, 

Collin sia  Bicolor, 

Larkspurs, 

Convolvulus, 

Grove  Love, 

Bartonia  Aurea, 


Leptosiphon  Densiflorus, 
Poppies, 
Eschscholtzia, 
Shell  Plant, 

And  most  of  the  California 
annuals. 


LIST   OP  SEEDS  THAT  SHOULD  BE   SOWN  IN  A  HOT-BED. 

Asters,  Balsams, 

Coxcombs,  Choice  Petunias, 

Verbenas,  Lophospermums, 

Vineas,  Everlastings, 
Clintonias, 
And  any  other  plant  desired  to  bloom  early  that  will  bear  trans- 
planting. 

To  Sow  Flower  Seeds. — Usually  flower  seeds  are  sown  too 
thickly.  Fine  seed  should  be  mixed  with  dry  sand,  and  scattered 
evenly  in  the  soil,  and  larger  seeds  planted  at  equal  distances,  so  far 
apart  that  they  can  be  thinned  by  transplanting  without  disturbing 
those  that  remain.  Sow  seeds  of  low  plants  on  the  borders,  and 
higher  bloomers  back  of  them,  as,  for  instance,  on  a  border  of  four 
feet,  sow  first  pansies,  and  back  of  them  balsams,  etc.  The  catalogues 
usually  designate  the  height  of  each  advertised  flower.  Peas  like 
good  soil  that  was  manured  the  previous  year.  Balsams  require  very 
high  fertilizing.  Amaranths  should  have  rather  a  poor  light  soil. 
Stocks  prefer  rich  soil,  with  a  little  lime  or  chalk.  Coxcombs  must 
be  stimulated  highly  to  do  well.  Larkspurs  like  rich  soil,  mixed  with 
pulverized  charcoal.  Pansies  should  be  highly  stimulated,  and  the 
soil  kept  moist  around  them.  California  annuals  prefer  warm  soil 
and  but  little  thinning ;  if  exposed  to  the  sun  too  much,  they  will  soon 
wither ;  they  must  cover  the  ground.  Asters  must  have  rich  soil, 
and  be  transplanted  when  two  inches  high  to  do  well.  Mignonette 
is  most  fragrant  on  sandy  soil.  Verbenas  like  good  soil,  not  very 
light,  with  no  decomposed  manure.  Soil  cannot  be  too  good  for  pinks ; 
they  like  a  sprinkling  of  salt  over  the  soil  every  season.  All  flower- 
ing plants  that  incline  to  throw  out  roots  from  the  stem  should  have 
the  earth  drawn  up  to  them ;  as  the  balsam,  the  four  o'clock,  etc.    The 


FLOWERS.  333 

seeds  of  biennial  and  perennial  plants,  if  sown  as  soon  as  ripe, 
will  bloom  the  next  season.  Weeds  must  be  removed  from  among 
seedlings  when  very  small,  or  they  will  soon  destroy  the  young 
plants ;  but,  as  many  flowers  resemble  our  common  weeds  when  quite 
young,  great  care  must  be  taken,  or  the  flowers  will  be  mistaken  for 
weeds. 

Seed  Saving. — Be  sure  the  seeds  are  ripe.  Dry  them  well  before 
putting  them  away.  Bottles  are  very  convenient  for  seed  ;  they 
should  be  labelled  thus  :  "  Balsams,  I860."  If  the  label  reaches 
round  the  bottle,  it  can  be  used  many  years,  erasing  the  previous 
and  adding  the  current  year  each  season.  To  those  who  practise 
giving  their  neighbors  seeds  yearly^  it  will  save  much  trouble,  and 
will  also  insure  the  seeds  from  the  depredations  of  mice.  Vines 
should  be  furnished  with  supports  as  soon  as  they  incline  to  twine. 
Asters,  and  all  plants  needing  support,  should  be  tied  to  neat  stakes, 
or  the  first  hard  rain  will  ruin  them.  Pinks  need  frames  to  keep  the 
blossoms  from  the  ground.  Larkspurs  should  be  thinned  to  one  foot 
apart  when  quite  young ;  candy  tuft  to  six  inches ;  if  the  branching, 
to  one  foot,  and  other  plants  in  proportion.  One  stalk  of  coxcomb, 
if  thrifty,  looks  better  than  more  ;  it  should  be  trimmed  tree-shaped. 
They  grow  three  and  four  feet  high,  if  well  cared  for,  with  combs  releas- 
ing six  inches.  The  same  rule  will  apply  to  all  coarse  growing  plants ; 
only  small  plants  should  be  clustered.  Yery  low  plants  should  be  used  as 
borders,  unless  the  garden  has  box,  grass,  or  other  permanent  borders. 
Large  seeds  improve  by  age,  some  retaining  their  vegetating  proper- 
ties several  years.  All  seeds  as  large  as  the  Balsams  can  be  kept  two 
years ;  peas,  longer;  while  the  minute  seeds  should  be  sown  the  season 
after  ripening.  Pansies  will  seldom  vegetate  the  second  year,  etc.  It 
is  impossible  to  enumerate  half  the  annuals  now  in  cultivation,  but 
catalogues,  describing  the  old  and  many  new  flowers,  can  be  had  of 
all  seedsmen. 

The  Caee  of  Flowers  in  a  Drotjght. — Unless  a  plant  is  efficiently 
and  regularly  watered,  it  had  better  be  left  to  nature  alone.  If  the 
soil  is  deep,  a  frequent  stirring  of  the  surface  will  be  much  more  ad- 
vantageous to  the  garden  than  a  mere  sprinkling  of  water.  Shading 
the  ground  with  straw,  moss,  flat  stones,  bits  of  board,  or  sawdust, 
will  protect  the  plants  materially  from  the  sun  and  heat.  TVhen 
watering  is  absolutely  necessary,  remove  the  soil  around  the  plant 
without  exposing  the  root,  pour  in  two  quarts  at  least  to  each,  and 
after  it  has  well  soaked  in  the  ground,  cover  with  the  dry  displaced 


334 

earth ;  after  this,  a  mulch  of  moss,  or  something  else,  will  keep  the 
plant  moist  several  days ;  but  if  watering  is  once  commenced,  and  the 
roots  again  allowed  to  dry,  the  plant  will  suffer  more  than  if  no  water 
had  been  used.  "Water  to  be  used  in  the  garden  should  stand  in  the 
sun  during  the  day,  and  be  applied  to  the  plants  after  the  sun  has 
set.  Liquid  manure  is  the  most  beneficial,  when  applied  during,  or 
just  before  a  rain. 

Transplanting  Annuals. — Select  cloudy  weather,  if  possible. 
Water,  if  the  soil  is  dry,  the  plants  to  be  removed,  the  evening  pre- 
vious, and  the  place  to  which  the  plant  is  to  be  removed.  Lift  it  care- 
fully with  a  garden  trowel,  having  previously  removed  the  soil  from 
the  spot  intended  for  the  plant ;  by  the  same  instrument,  that  it  may 
carry  the  plant  on  the  trowel,  insert  it  into  the  hole  prepared  for  it, 
and  press  it  gently  in  place.  If  young,  it  will  need  no  pruning,  but  if 
the  roots  are  disturbed,  pinch  off  the  end  of  the  root,  and  remove 
one  quarter  of  the  leaves.    Water  and  shade  until  it  is  well  rooted. 

Geubs. — These  are  very  troublesome  to  some  flowering  plants, 
especially  balsams,  and  other  watery  stems.    (See  Insects.) 

Cutting  and  Aeeanging  Flowees. — Never  break  off  blossoms, 
cut  them  with  shears.  Select  the  first  and  finest  blooms  to  ripen, 
so  as  to  secure  good  seed.  In  arranging,  do  not  crowd  the  bouquet 
or  confuse  the  colors.  The  following  colors  form  good  contrast: 
Blue  and  orange ;  purple  and  yellow ;  pink  and  white ;  scarlet,  white, 
and  dark  purple ;  blue  and  white ;  crimson  and  white ;  maroon  and  dark 
blue ;  rose  and  green,  etc.  All  the  colors  can  be  combined  in  the  same 
bouquet,  but  each  combination  should  be  a  distinct  bouquet  of  itself, 
separated  by  greens  or  white.  "White  flowers  are  indispensable  in 
the  artistic  arrangement  of  flowers,  whether  in  baskets,  vases,  or 
hand  bouquets,  to  give  effect  to  the  other  colors.  Delicate  greens, 
unless  geranium  leaf  can  be  obtained,  are  the  most  appropriate  and 
graceful  in  floral  combinations.  If  flowers  are  to  be  sent  to  a  dis- 
tance, wrap  the  stick  which  forms  the  handle  of  the  bouquet,  and  the 
stem  of  each  flower,  with  wet  cotton  or  moss  before  arranging  them. 
Be  careful,  too,  to  select  blooms  that  are  hardly  in  their  prime,  as 
many  flowers  fade  as  soon  as  perfected. 

Geneeal  Dieections  foe  Cultivating  Bulbs. — Bulbs  require 
deep,  rich,  at  the  same  time,  light  soil.  Dig  the  beds  from  eighteen 
inches  to  two  feet  deep,  placing  about  four  inches  of  decayed  manure 


FLOWERS.  335 

on  the  bottom  of  the  trench,  and  enrich  the  top  with  decomposed 
manure  and  soil  from  the  woods,  and  let  it  remain,  at  least,  one  month 
before  planting  the  bulbs.  The  time  for  planting  bulbs  is  from  the 
middle  of  October  to  the  middle  of  November ;  the  bed  which  was 
prepared  should  be  dug  over,  raised  a  little  above  the  walk,  and  well 
raked.  Tulips  should  be  planted  six  inches  apart ;  make  holes  four 
inches  deep,  with  a  stick  rounded  at  one  end,  much  in  the  shape  of  a 
tulip  bulb,  but  larger  than  the  largest  tulip ;  put  in  each  hole  half  an 
inch  of  sand  from  the  lake  shore,  or  what  is  usually  called  mason's  sand, 
used  by  them  in  making  mortar  ;  put  a  bulb  in  each  hole,  cover  with 
the  hand,  and  press  the  soil  firmly  by  beating  it  with  the  back  of  the 
spade,  and  before  the  severe  season  comes  on,  protect  them  with  tan, 
straw,  or  boards.  If  wanted  to  increase,  let  them  remain  three  years ; 
if  not,  take  them  up  as  soon  after  flowering,  as  the  leaves  have  disap- 
peared, and  replant  in  other  beds  prepared  as  directed  at  first.  They 
will  do  very  well,  however,  to  leave  two  years,  enriching  the  soil 
after  the  leaves  die,  with  prepared  compost,  without  cutting  the 
bulbs ;  never  disturb  them  in  the  spring.  Hyacinths ;  plant  much  as 
tulips,  though  it  is  well  to  cover  the  bulbs  with  sand  before  putting 
on  the  soil ;  the  holes  for  hyacinths  should  be  deep  enough  to  allow 
four  inches  of  soil  over  the  crown  of  the  plant  when  finished ;  pro- 
tect with  cow  manure.  Kemove  all  protection  from  bulbs  the  last 
week  in  March,  and  if  frost .  threatens,  they  must  be  protected  with 
boxes  or  any  thing  that  will  not  break  the  foliage.  The  beds  should 
be  dressed  as  soon  as  frost  is  out  of  the  ground,  and  all  weeds  re- 
moved as  soon  as  they  appear.  Tulips  and  hyacinths  should  be  sup- 
ported by  stakes,  neatly  made  and  painted  green,  which  can  be  num- 
bered to  designate  the  color  of  each  bulb.  Lift  hyacinths  about  five 
weeks  after  flowering,  dry  them  slowly  in  the  air  without  exposure 
to  the  sun,  after  which  lay  them  away  in  a  dry  garret.  Never  allow 
the  seed  to  ripen  on  bulbs,  but  break  off  the  blossom  as  soon  as  its 
beauty  has  passed  away.  Crocuses ;  plant  in  rows  two  inches  deep ; 
the  bulbs  can  remain  four  years  without  lifting.  Jonquils ;  treat  as 
tulips,  except,  as  they  do  not  bloom  well  the  first  year,  they  should 
not  be  lifted  oftener  than  every  third  year,  and  may  remain  four. 
Tuberoses,  Tigridas,  and  Amaryllis  will  not  bear  freezing ;  lift  the  bulbs 
after  the  first  frost,  dry,  and  pack  them  in  dry  sand  until  spring.  Lil- 
ies ;  most  of  the  lilies  are  quite  hardy  ;  they  require  rich  deep  soil. 
Narcissus  requires  a  richer  soil  than  the  lily.  Pseonias,  are  quite 
hardy;  the  soil  should  be  rich  and  deep,  plant  them  in  the  fall; 
they  are  propagated  by  dividing  the  roots ;  it  will  not  do  to  lift  them 


336 

in  the  spring.  Dahlias;  the  dahlia,  if  too  highly  stimulated,  will 
make  more  branches  and  leaves  than  blossoms ;  the  soil  should  be  a 
good,  sandy  loam,  which  will  not  retain  moisture  ;  the  border  should 
be  dug  deeply,  and  a  strong  stake  be  driven  firmly  into  the  ground 
for  each  plant.  If  a  gentle  hot  bed  is  at  hand,  hasten  the  sprouting 
of  the  plant  by  planting  them  in  it ;  if  not,  place  them  near  the  fur- 
nace, or  in  some  other  warm  situation,  to  sprout.  The  eyes  of  the 
plant  are  around  the  neck,  not  on  the  tubers,  as  in  potatoes.  The 
crowns  should  not  be  covered  while  sprouting,  as  the  moisture  of  the 
hot  bed  will  be  apt  to  induce  decay.  "When  the  sprouts  are  three  inches, 
cut  them  from  the  plant  near  the  base,  using  only  a  small  piece  of  the 
old  tuber,  and  plant  the  cutting  in  a  pot  filled  with  good  loam  mixed 
with  soil  from  the  woods,  and  place  the  pots  in  a  gentle  hot  bed  until 
time  to  plant  it  out  in  the  open  air ;  care  must  be  taken  to  shade  them 
until  they  have  formed  roots ;  they  will  do  very  well,  however,  if  plant- 
ed in  the  border  as  soon  as  of  sufficient  size  to  cut  from  the  old  tuber 
without  potting.  Shade  for  a  week,  and  keep  the  soil  moist,  not  wet, 
until  the  roots  commence  to  form.  Cut  the  stalks  to  within  one  foot 
of  the  ground  as  soon  as  touched  by  frost,  and  before  the  soil  freezes ; 
lift  the  whole  root,  dry  it  thoroughly,  pack  them  away,  and  keep  them 
in  a  dry  place  free  from  frost  until  spring.  Some  say,  pack  in  dry  sand ; 
others,  hang  them  by  the  stalk  in  the  cellar ;  and  others  advise  to  lay 
the  roots  on  shelves,  and  cover  to  the  stem  with  dry  sand.  The  principal 
requisites  to  insure  their  keeping  are  freedom  from  moisture  and  pro- 
tection from  frost ;  in  a  warm  cellar  where  there  is  a  furnace  they 
might  become  too  dry,  so  as  to  wrinkle,  which  is  nearly  as  bad  as 
moisture  ;  the  tubers  should  remain  plump  and  smooth. 

Roses,  to  Peopagate. — Roses  can  be  increased  by  layering,  bud- 
ding, and  grafting.  Many  of  the  hybrid  perpetuals  are  difficult  to 
grow  from  layers,  taking  two  or  more  years  to  form  roots,  while 
others  form  good  plants  in  one  season.  Roses  are  no  more  difficult 
to  bud  than  peaches,  were  the  thorns  not  troublesome.  There  are  two 
methods  of  layering  roses  and  other  plants,  which  will  be  described. 
Select  a  young  branch  of  the  current  year's  growth,  bend  it  to  the 
ground,  and  split  it  an  inch  or  more  ;  some  split  the  upper,  and  others 
the  lower  side  of  the  branch  ;  cover  it  as  deep  as  convenient  in  the 
soil,  and  keep  it  in  place,  by  pegging  it  down  with  a  notched  stick ; 
support  the  end  of  the  branch  firmly  in  an  upright  position,  and  lay  a 
flat  stone  over  the  part  slit  to  keep  the  soil  moist  while  the  roots  are 
forming.    The  other  method  is  as  follows:   take  a  young  growing 


FLOWERS.  337 

shoot,  run  the  knife  under  each  eye,  and  place  a  splinter  in  each 
split,  then  cover  the  whole  branch,  peg  it  firmly  in  place,  and  let  it 
remain  all  the  season.  There  will  be  as  many  plants  as  slits,  each  eye 
making  a  shoot. 

Eoses,  to  Bxjd. — Select  a  shoot  of  the  current  year  from  the  rose 
desired  to  propagate,  and  another  of  from  one  to  three  years,  in  which 
the  bud  is  to  be  inserted.  With  a  sharp  pen,  or,  what  is  better,  a 
budding  knife,  carefully  remove  the  bud  with  a  portion  of  the  bark, 
and  the  wood  attached  above  and  below  the  footstalks  of  a  leaf,  in 
the  axil  of  which  the  bud  to  be  inserted  is  situated.  To  remove  the 
bud  insert  the  knife  about  three-fourths  of  an  inch  below  the  bud, 
and  slip  it  carefully  underneath  it,  making  a  smooth  cut,  taking  but 
little  wood  with  the  bud,  to  half  an  inch  above  it ;  that  is,  the  bark 
below  the  bud  should  be  three-fourths,  and  above  it,  half  an  inch  in 
length,  the  whole  cut  one  and  a  quarter  inch  in  length.  Eemove  part 
of  the  leaf,  and  proceed  to  prepare  the  stock ;  make  a  slit  lengthwise 
on  the  back  of  the  stock,  and  another  across  the  top  of  the  first  slit, 
leaving  the  incision  in  the  shape  of  the  letter  T.  Open  the  slit  at  the 
top  without  wounding  the  bark,  slip  the  bud  under  the  bark,. and  push 
it  down  as  far  as  possible  with  the  knife  handle,  being  careful  to  place 
the  bud  in  its  natural  position;  press  the  bark  firmly,  and  secure 
it  in  its  place  with  strips  of  bass  matting,  wrapped  evenly  around 
it.  As  soon  as  the  bud  has  united  with  the  stock,  which  will  be 
in  about  a  month  or  six  weeks  if  it  does  well,  loosen  the  matting,  and 
in  two  or  three  weeks  after  remove  it  entirely.  Some  advise  remov- 
ing the  bit  of  wood  adhering  to  the  bud  before  inserting  it,  but  if  cut 
closely,  it  will  be  better  to  let  it  remain.  If  the  wood  is  thick,  it  may 
prevent  the  buds  uniting  with  the  stock,  but  if  properly  cut,  it  will 
stiffen  the  bud,  so  that  it  will  bear  crowding  down  better,  and  also 
retain  moisture  longer  than  without  it. 

Grafting,  Eemaefjs  on. — Although  several  kinds  of  grafting  are 
practised,  the  same  condition,  to  insure  success,  is  essential  to  each, 
namely,  that  the  inner  bark  of  the  scion  should  be  closely  united  to 
the  inner  bark  of  the  stock.  Propagation  of  roses  by  grafting  is  less 
certain  than  by  budding,  on  account  of  the  pithy  nature  of  the  stem. 

Cleft  Grafteto. — This  is  the  most  sure  method  of  grafting  roses. 
Cut  the  scion  before  the  buds  swell,  and  shade  them  until  needed, 
which  will  be  as  soon  as  the  buds  in  the  stock  show  signs  of  swelling. 
15 


338  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

At  the  proper  time  cut  the  stock  horizontally  the  desired  height ;  split 
the  stock  downward  one  or  two  inches,  cut  the  scion  from  two  and 
a  half  to  three  inches  long,  and  shape  the  lower  end  with  a  sharp 
knife,  in  form  of  a  wedge,  insert  the  wedge  end  in  the  split  made  in 
the  stock,  holding  it  firmly,  so  that  the  hack  of  the  stock  and  scion 
will  be  brought  into  close  contact.  Bind  it  firmly  in  place  with  bass 
matting,  and  cover  the  whole  top  of  the  stock  with  grafting  wax ;  in 
August  or  September  cut  the  ligatures. 
♦ 
Whip,  or  Splice  Grafting. — Select  the  scion  and  stock  as  near 
the  same  size  as  possible ;  the  former  should  consist  of  from  three  to 
five  buds,  the  latter  may  be  cut  to  the  ground  or  left  at  any  height 
chosen.  For  standards  it  should  be  three,  four,  or  more  feet.  Out 
both  scion  and  stock  slanting,  so  as  to  fit  perfectly.  Make  a  dovetail 
notch  in  the  stock  on  which  to  rest  the  scion  ;  place  the  two  together, 
and  bind  them  firmly  in  place  with  a  strand  of  bass  matting,  and 
cover  the  whole  with  grafting-clay,  or  wax.  If  the  stock  is  much 
larger  than  the  scion,  the  scion  may  be  fitted  to  the  side  of  the  stock, 
so  as  to  bring  the  two  inner  barks  in  contact.  This  is  a  very  simple 
mode  of  grafting,  and  applicable  to  any  shrub  or  fruit.  Grafting  wax 
is  composed  of  rosin,  beeswax,  and  tallow ;  to  use  it,  melt  the  wax, 
and  while  warm  dip  in  strips  of  cotton  cloth,  and  wind  the  graft  be- 
fore the  wax  cools.  Layering  can  be  done  when  convenient,  from 
spring  until  autumn.  Budding  can  be  performed  from  July  until  Sep- 
tember ;  grafting  is  done  in  April.  The  buds  will  generally  remain 
dormant  until  the  next  spring,  when  the  stock  may  be  headed  down 
to  within  three  inches  of  the  budding ;  as  the  bud  grows,  tie  it  to  the 
stock  with  strips  of  cotton  or  matting,  without  binding,  to  prevent 
the  circulation  of  the  sap.  The  graft,  if  it  takes,  will  grow  the  same 
season  it  is  put  in.  Some  roses  make  layers  in  three,  some  six 
months,  and  some  take  years. 

Honeysuckles. — These  are  increased  by  layers ;  most  of  them  are 
hardy,  but  some  of  the  Chinese  varieties  need  slight  protection. 
Young  sprouts  should  be  allowed  to  grow  as  very  often  the  old  branches 
are  winter-killed.  It  is  well,  when  the  principal  branch  becomes 
very  woody,  to  cut  it  to  the  ground,  and  let  it  start  anew. 

Lilacs. — Never  allow  the  seed  to  ripen,  and  remove  all  suckers. 
Twinberries,  Snowballs,  and  Flowering  Currants,  these  grow  from  the 
slip,  and  are  perfectly  hardy;  they  all  sucker  badly;  give  them 
plenty  room. 


FLOWERS. 


339 


Privet  Hedges. — This  grows  from  cuttings,  and  will  make  a  fine 
je  in  three  or  four  years.  Allow  room  for  the  hedge  to  spread 
fcur  feet  from  the  base.  Plant  the  cuttings  in  April  about  six  inches 
apart;  there  should  be  three  buds  below  the  surface  of  the  soil.  Let 
it  grow  until  fall  or  the  next  spring,  and  then  cut  it  to  two  buds. 
The  next  season  it  is  cut  at  midsummer,  trimming  both  tops  and 
sides,  leaving  the  hedge  six  inches  high.  It  is  trimmed  again  in  the 
spring,  and  so  on,  until  it  is  as  thick  as  desired,  after  which,  to  look 
well,  it  should  be  trimmed  as  often  as  is  necessary  to  keep  it  in  fine 
shape. 

Box. — This  makes  a  fine  hedge,  and  the  dwarf  is  beautiful  for 
bordering,  but  winter  kills  it  badly,  where  the  winters  are  severe  and 
open. 


LIST   OF  HARDY  FLOWEELNG  SHRUBS  GENERALLY  CULTIVATED,  BY  THEIR 
COMMON  OR  VULGAR  NAMES. 


Purple  Lilac. 
White  Lilac. 
Ked  Persian  Lilac. 
White  Persian  Lilac. 
Spiraeas,  pink  and  white. 
Twinberry,  or  Shrub  Honeysuckle. 
Double-flowering  Almond. 
Bride's,   or  St.  Peter's,   Wreath, 

white. 
Flowering  Currants,  yellow. 


Double  White  Syringo. 

Single  White,  called  Mock  Orange. 

Snowball. 

Privets,  pink  and  white. 

Waxberry,  red  and  white. 

Flowering  Quince. 

Double  Peach. 

Fringe.    Tree,  white  and  brown. 

Rose  Acacia. 


LIST   OF  HARDY  TWTNLNG 

Coral  Honeysuckle, 

White  Monthly  Honeysuckle, 

Fragrant  Monthly        " 

Chinese  Twining  " 

Woodbine, 

Virginia  Creepei^ 

Wistaria, 

Bitter  Sweet, 

Trumpet  Vine, 


PLANTS  WITH  WOODY   STEMS. 

Hardy  Passion  Yine, 

Irish  Ivy,  the  most  hardy  of  the 
Ivies, 

Common  Virgin's  Bower  Clema- 
tis, or  sweet-scented ;  double 
red,  and 

Clematis  Aurea  Grandinora,  a 
blue  variety,  are  the  most 
beautiful  of  this  family. 


LIST   OF  HERBACEOUS   CLIMBERS. 

Calystegia  pubescens,  rose-colored.     Plant  this  in  boxes  buried 


340  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

beneath  the  surface,  as  they  soon  become  a  base  weed  if  allowed  to 
grow  in  the  garden. 

Adlumia,  a  half  hardy  biennial,  rose-colored,  with  graceful  foliage. 

ANNUAL   CLIMBEES. 

Cypress  Vine,  red,^  J  ^^  and  gmceM_ 

Hyacinth  Beans,  many  varieties. 
Balsam  Apple,         "  " 

Sweet  Pea,  "  " 

Morning  Glories,      "  " 

Beside  many  other  woody,  herbaceous  biennals,  and  annual  climbers. 

Roses. — No  ornament  of  the  garden  more  fully  repays  extra  care 
than  does  the  rose.  The  soil  should  be  well  drained,  deep,  rich,  and 
-highly  manured;  liquid  manures,  charcoal  finely  pulverized,  and  other 
stimulants,  applied  just  before  the  flower  buds,  show  their  colors, 
enlarge  the  blooms,  and  brighten  the  colors  materially.  The  time 
for  transplanting  in  the  spring  is  as  soon  as  the  frost  is  out  of  the 
ground,  and  at  autumn,  the  last  of  September.  June,  or  hardy  roses, 
require  but  little  pruning.  The  wood  that  shows  age  should  be  re- 
moved regularly,  and  if  the  branches  crowd  each  other,  they  must  be 
entirely  removed.  The  hips  of  roses  should  be  gathered  as  fast  as 
the  leaves  fade,  and  the  bushes  often  searched  for  the  insects  that 
infest  them.  "We  give  a  list  of  a  few  of  the  roses  included  in  this 
class. 

LIST   OF  HAEDY  EOSES. 


Red  Moss, 

White  Moss, 

Marbled  Moss, 

Partout,  or  Moss  upon  Moss, 

Persian  Yellow, 

Marbled, 


Madame  Hardy,  white, 

Cabbage,  pink, 

African,  black, 

Baron  de  Stael,  cherry  color, 

King  of  Rome,  red, 

Queen  Qf  Violets, 


and  many  others  distinct  from  those  named.     The  dwarf  Scotch  roses 
are  very  pretty,  of  which  there  are  many  varieties. 


HAEDY   CLIMBING  EOSES. 


Greville,  or  Seven  Sisters,  Baltimore  Belle, 

Queen  of  the  Prairie,  Queen  of  the  Belgians, 


FLOWERS.  341 

and  many  other  natural  climbers,  can  be  made  to  cover  arbors  with 
very  little  trouble ;  they  look  very  pretty  twined  round  a  pillar. 
The  old  branches  must  be  removed  every  two  or  three  years,  to 
insure  perfect  blooming ;  but  the  ends  should  never  be  shortened. 

LIST    OF    HYBRID    CHINESE    ROSES. 


Blanchefleur,  white. 
Parny,  bluish  or  dove  color. 
Lady  Stewart,  blush. 
Fulgens,  bright  scarlet. 


Coup  de  Hebe,  pink. 
Louis  Philippe,  dark. 
Victor  Hugo,  rosy  violet. 
"William  IV.,  blush  red. 


The  hybrid  Chinese  bloom  but  once  in  the  season ;  they  are  per* 
fectly  hardy,  luxuriant  growers,  fine  bloomers,  and  many  of  them  de- 
lightful for  their  fragrance.  They  can  be  used  to  cover  arbors,  pillars, 
or  trellises  to  advantage,  being  quite  flexible.  If  the  shoots  crowd, 
remove  them  entirely,  but  never  shorten  the  ends  of  those  left ; 
leave  them  to  grow  naturally,  but  give  them  support  as  fast  as  they 
need  it. 

LIST   OF   HARDY    PERPETUAL   ROSES. 


Blanch  Vibert,  pure  white. 
Duchess  de  JSTemours,  pale  rose. 
Due  d'Aumale,  crimson. 
La  Peine,  rosy  lilac. 


Baron  Provost,  dark  rose. 
Edward  Jesse,  pale  red. 
Du  Koi,  red  capped. 
Lane,  bright  carmine. 


Youlande  d'Arragon,  pale  rose,  one  of  the  best. 

These,  at  the  north,  need  a  slight  protection.  They  require  deep, 
rich  soil,  richly  manured  every  year.  If  they  grow  with  luxuriance, 
they  will  need  pruning  twice  yearly.  If  the  rose  to  be  pruned  is  bud- 
ded, take  care  that  in  trimming  you  do  not  cut  the  inserted  rose  be- 
low the  bud,  and  leave  only  the  worthless  stock.  This  is  often  done  by 
a  careless  or  ignorant  gardener,  and  the  nurseryman  blamed  for  the 
poor  rose  that  appears  in  the  place  of  the  one  expected.  The  first 
pruning  is  usually  performed  the  last  of  October  or  the  first  of  Novem- 
ber. Cut  off  two-thirds  of  each  shoot  that  grew  the  preceding  sum- 
mer, and  if  the  branches  crowd,  remove  some  entirely.  The  next 
June  they  will  throw  out  a  great  number  of  shoots ;  which,  to  insure 
autumnal  blooming,  will  need  to  be  severely  pruned.  Leave  about 
half  of  the  new  shoots  to  flower,  and  cut  off  full  half  the  length  of  the 
remainder.  In  July  and  August  the  shortened  branches  will  be  full 
of  blooms,  paying  well  for  the  sacrifice  of  the  June  blossoms.  The 
third  blooming  will  commence  in  September,  and  continue  until 
freezing  weather  comes  on. 


342 


HOUSEKEEPER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 


Bourbon  Roses. — These  are  mostly  hardy,  though  a  slight  protec- 
tion will  prove  beneficial  at  the  north.  Being  constant  bloomers, 
mostly  fragrant,  and  in  growth  luxuriant,  they  may  be  considered 
one  of  the  greatest  ornaments  of  the  garden.  They  should  be  pruned 
much  in  the  same  manner  as  the  hybrid  roses.  Those  named  can  be 
relied  upon  as  fine  roses,  true  to  the  description,  if  cultivated  with 
care. 

LIST    OF   BOURBON   ROSES. 


Hermosa,  bright  rose. 

Duval,  bright  scarlet  and  crimson. 

Queen    of   the    Bourbons,    waxy 

blush. 
Madame  Angelina,  creamy  white. 
Due  de  Chartres,  rosy  pink. 
Monthly  Cabbage,  bright  rose. 


Souvenir  de  la  Malmaison,  pale, 

blush  and  large. 
Madame  Desprez,  dark,  perfectly 

double. 
Paul  Joseph,  crimson. 
Henry  Clay,  carmine. 
Doctor  Roques,  dark  crimson. 
Acidalie,  white. 

Noisette  Roses. — These  require  a  slight  protection  at  the  North. 
Give  them  a  rich  soil  with  plenty  manure,  prune  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  Bourbons,  and  they  will  give  a  profusion  of  blooms  from  June 
until  November.  The  following  are  some  of  the  best  old  tested 
varieties : 

LIST   OF   NOISETTE   ROSES. 

Aimee  Yibert,  white  dwarfish,  one  of  the  best. 
Champney's  Pink  Cluster,  light  pink,  profuse  bloomer. 
Luxembourg,  rosy,  purple,  fragrant. 
Fellenberg,  bright  crimson ;  a  fine  rose. 
Bologne,  dark,  crimson,  dwarfish. 
Joan  d'Arc,  yellowish  white. 

There  are  many  others  equally  fine,  which  might  be  described  did 
our  limits  permit. 

LIST    OF   HARDY  BIENNIALS. 

Digitalis,  or  Foxglove,  several  colors. 

Campanula,  or  Canterbury-bell,  in  colors. 

Antirrhinum,  or  Snap-dragon,  and  perennial,  many  colors. 

Althea  rosea,  or  Hollyhock,  various  colors. 

Ipomopsis  elegans,  scarlet. 

Dianthus  barbatus,  or  Sweet-William. 

Pansies,  of  many  colors. 


FLOWERS. 


PERENNIALS. 


343 


Aconitums,  or  monkshood,  various  colors. 

Bellis  perennis,  or  daisy,  many  colors. 

Delphinums,  or  larkspurs,  blue. 

Funkia,  or  day  lily,  different  colors. 

Iris,  or  fleur-de-lis,  many  colors. 

Lychnis,  many  varieties. 

Agrostemma  flos-cuculi,  or  ragged  robin,  pink. 

Phlox,  white,  pink,  and  purple. 

Primulas,  including  cowslips,  primroses,  and  auriculas. 

Spiraeas,  white  and  pink. 

Yiola,  or  the  double  violets  of  many  sorts. 

Dianthus,  pinks. 

Yuca,  or  Adam's  needle,  and  many  others  that  cannot  be  enu- 
merated in  this  work.  Lilies,  bulbs,  peonies,  etc.,  are  included  under 
perennials. 

Biennials,  if  sown  one  year,  bloom  the  next,  ripen  their  seed,  and 
die ;  some  of  the  choice  biennials,  that  do  not  come  true  to  the  seed, 
can  be  layered  and  continued -from  year  to  year ;  as,  for  instance,  the 
finer  sorts  of  snap-dragon,  etc.  Lilies  of  all  sorts  are  mostly  hardy ; 
they  need  rich  deep  soil,  and  many  of  them  are  among  the  most  beau- 
tiful of  the  garden  ornaments.  They  should  be  lifted  and  changed  to 
other  parts  of  the  garden  once  in  four  years.  The  high  growing  sorts 
should  be  supported  by  tying  the  stalks  to  neat  stakes.  Some  are 
very  fragrant,  lading  the  air  with  perfume ;  the  Chinese  varieties  are 
the  most  beautiful,  but  our  native  sorts  are  very  fine. 


CHAPTER    IV. 

DIEECTIONS  FOE  MAKING  HOT-BEDS. 

Procure  fresh  manure  from  the  stables ;  it  will  take,  for  a  bed  four 
by  six  feet,  a  heap  of  manure  eight  feet  wide,  ten  long,  and  four  deep. 
Fork  it  over  three  times ;  if  dry,  sprinkle  ;  it  must  neither  be  wet  nor 
dry,  but  damp  only.  Throw  out  all  that  has  burned  before  coming 
from  the  stable ;  cover  with  straw  or  boards  to  keep  off  the  wind  and 
rain ;  do  not  turn  it  in  windy  weather,  unless  absolutely  necessary  ; 
and  be  careful  not  to  lose  too  much  heat.    The  object  in  turning  it  so 


344 


often  is  to  insure  equality  in  the  temperature  of  the  manure ;  if  this  is 
not  done,  the  bed  will  be  of  little  use,  the  manure  will  be  very  hot  at 
the  first,  and  become  cold  very  soon.  Prepare  a  place  for  the  bed,  if 
possible  where  it  will  be  protected  from  the  north  and  east  winds ;  the 
ground  should  slope  a  little  towards  the  south.  Lay  down  a  little  brush 
under  the  bed,  or  make  a  drain  of  strong  plank,  to  let  off  the  surface 
water  quickly.  It  usually  takes  from  two  to  three  weeks  to  prepare 
the  manure  fit  for  the  beds.  When  the  manure  is  in  the  right  state, 
evenly  heated  all  through,  proceed  to  make  the  bed ;  lay  the  manure 
evenly,  and  beat  it  down  with  the  fork  as  each  layer  is  put  on,  mak- 
ing it  lie  as  compactly  as  possible.  The  manure  should  reach  one  foot 
beyond  the  frame  all  round.  If  the  bed  is  to  be  planted  in  February, 
it  should  be  four  feet  deep ;  if  in  March,  three ;  if  the  1st  of  April, 
two ;  and  if  only  intended  for  forwarding  plants,  eighteen  inches  will 
do.  Let  the  frames  and  sash  now  be  put  on,  and  cover  the  outside  with 
straw,  or  boards,  to  keep  in  the  heat.  When  the  manure  is  all  spread, 
put  on  the  frames  and  sash,  keeping  it  closed  for  a  day  or  two  to  draw 
up  the  heat ;  the  sash  should  then  be  tilted  to  let  off  the  steam ;  this 
generally  takes  from  three  to  four  days.  Be  careful  not  to  let  the 
heat  become  too  much  reduced  before  making  up  the  bed,  or  the 
plants  will  turn  yellow  instead  of  being  a  fine  green.  When  the 
manure  is  in  a  right  state,  lay  evenly  over  it  the  soil,  which  should  be 
light  and  rich;  the  best  soil  is  the  top  surface  from  the  woods. 
When  finished,  it  should  be  about  six  inches  to  one  foot  deep.  Close 
the  sash,  and  let  it  remain  two  or  three  days.  Kake  thoroughly  to 
destroy  the  weeds  and  remove  the  lumps.  If  the  bed  is  too  hot,  the 
ground  will  look  whitish  and  cracked.  To  remedy  this,  drive  sticks 
in  as  far  as  the  manure  in  several  places,  and  leave  open  the  holes  for 
a  day.  If  the  soil  is  burned  take  fresh  ground,  and  proceed  to  plant  the 
seed.  Sow  more  seed  than  is  needed,  to  allow  for  losses,  and  thin  out 
the  plants  as  soon  as  they  have  made  two  or  three  leaves.  A  novice 
cannot  depend  on  feeling  to  regulate  the  heat  of  hot-beds ;  a  ther- 
mometer must  be  used.  During  the  day,  with  tilted  sash,  the  heat 
should  never  be  above  80°,  or  below  75°.  At  night  it  should  never  fall 
below  50°  with  the  sash  closed.  Cover  the  beds  at  night  to  keep  off 
the  cold  winds,  as  long  as  there  is  any  danger  of  chilling  the  plants. 
If  the  heat  rises,  with  the  sash  closed,  above  80,  tilt  the  sash  at  the 
back ;  and  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  when  there  is  no  wind  and  the 
sun  bright,  push  the  sash  nearly  down.  Plants  need  air  as  well  as 
heat,  and  will  no  more  thrive  without  the  one  than  the  other.  In 
cold  weather  they  are  apt  to  damp  off  for  want  of  air,  and  for  this 


DIRECTIONS    FOR   MAKING    HOT-BEDS.  345 

reason  it  must  be  admitted  whenever  it  will  do ;  but,  at  the  same 
time,  cold  wind  is  very  injurious.  "When  the  sash  is  tilted,  it  will  be 
necessary  to  lay  over  the  crack  something  to  prevent  the  wind  from 
blowing  directly  on  the  plants.  Persons  who  do  not  understand  this, 
fail  in  the  management  of  their  hot-beds,  and  the  plants  damping  off, 
they  become  quite  discouraged.  Never  allow  the  surface  of  the  bed  to 
become  dry ;  water  in  the  morning,  during  the  early  part  of  the  season 
of  forcing,  and  in  the  afternoon  when  the  sun  is  hot.  The  water  should 
be  the  same  temperature  as  the  bed,  and,  once  a  week,  be  slightly  im- 
pregnated with  pigeon  manure  or  any  other  stimulus  of  the  same  nature. 
Einse  off  the  plants  always  with  fresh  water  after  watering  with 
the  liquid  manure.  Keep  on  hand  a  heap  of  compost,  composed 
of  decayed  sod,  weeds,  stable  manure,  a  sprinkling  of  salt,  and  some 
plaster,  to  mix  with  the  soil  in  the  beds,  and  furnish  every  plant,  as 
far  as  possible,  with  the  soil  best  adapted  to  its  growth.  This  bed  is 
proper  for  raising  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  cauliflowers,  cabbage,  pep- 
pers, and  celery.  If  the  heat  decreases,  line  the  edges  of  the  beds 
with  fresh  manure,  and  make  holes  in  the  sides  to  let  in  the  heat 
from  the  outside.  If  the  heat  is  too  strong,  the  sun  hot,  and  the 
wind  blows,  so  that  the  sash  cannot  be  let  down,  tilt  the  sash,  and 
cover  the  glass  with  a  sprinkling  of  straw.  Cabbage  and  cauliflowers 
will  do  better  raised  in  cold  frames  in  the  fall,  and  protected  in  them 
all  winter.  Celery  should  have  a  little  salt  raked  in  the  soil,  as  it  is 
a  marsh  plant ;  give  it  also  plenty  of  the  manure  from  the  compost 
heap.  Do  not  let  the  plants  stand  too  thick,  or  they  will  be  weak 
instead  of  stocky. 

Directions  for  Eaising  Cttcttmbees. — Prepare  the  beds  as  di- 
rected, raise  the  soil  within  one  foot  of  the  glass.  Prepare  hills  with 
compost  about  three  inches  high,  so  as  to  raise  them  within  nine 
inches  of  the  glass,  plant  a  dozen  seeds  in  each  hill,  and  let  them 
grow  until  they  have  made  two  or  three  leaves ;  then  remove  all 
but  one  in  each  hill.  "When  the  plants  have  made  three  leaves, 
pinch  them  off,  to  induce  them  to  branch  and  fruit  early.  Draw  the 
soil  to  the  roots  as  they  grow,  tilt  the  frames  whenever  the  weather 
will  allow ;  the  temperature  should  never  fall  below  60°  or  rise 
above  80°  during  the  day,  or  fall  below  50°  at  night.  When  the  sun 
is  hot,  give  plenty  of  air ;  but  when  it  is  hot,  with  a  cold  wind,  cover 
the  glass  with  a  little  straw,  and  keep  the  wind  from  blowing  directly 
on  the  plants.  As  soon  as  flowers  appear,  give  plenty  water,  and  fer- 
tilize the  plants,  by  taking  those  that  are  barren  and  turn  the  stamens 
in  the  centre  of  those  that  show  fruit ;  one  will  impregnate  two  or 
15* 


346  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

three.  In  two  weeks  after,  they  should  be  fit  to  cut,  if  managed 
rightly.  If  the  plants  look  yellow,  there  is  not  enough  heat ;  line  the 
beds  with  fresh  manure.  If  bugs  appear,  sprinkle  with  lime.  The 
early  Kussian  is  small,  but  very  early,  and  does  not  run.  Seeds 
should  be  three  years  old ;  old  seeds  make  less  vine  and  more  fruit 
than  fresh  ones. 

To  Grow  Radishes. — These  require  a  foot  of  soil ;  plant  thinly, 
and  as  soon  as  the  plants  are  up  give  plenty  air  and  water,  every  day, 
not  allowing  the  bed  to  become  dry. 

Hot-beds  for  Forwarding  Plants. — For  forwarding  plants  in  the 
spring,  prepare  a  bed  as  follows  :  Make  a  pit  and  place  over  it  the 
frame ;  spread  in  the  pit  twenty  inches  of  manure,  well  prepared ; 
cover  it  with  eight  inches  of  good  mould ;  the  surface  soil  from  the 
woods  is  the  very  best  to  use  for  this  purpose  ;  and  cover  the  beds,  to 
draw  up  the  steam ;  tilt  the  sash  to  let  off  the  steam.  In  two  or 
three  days  rake  the  soil,  and  plant  the  seeds.  When  the  seeds  are  up 
give  plenty  air,  and  do  not  allow  them  to  stand  nearer  each  other 
than  three  or  four  inches.  This  is  intended  to  apply  principally  to 
cabbages,  cauliflowers,  lettuce,  celery,  and  tomatoes.  Protect  the 
plants  during  the  severe  weather,  with  mats  at  night,  and  give  air 
when  they  will  not  chill,  by  raising  the  sash  every  night  one-fourth  of 
an  inch.  If  this  is  not  done  they  will  decay.  If  cauliflower  is  in- 
jured by  heat,  it  never  recovers. 

Forwarding  Cucumbers  and  Melons  in  Pots. — Plant  seeds  in 
small  pots  one-third  full  of  charcoal,  and  filled  up  with  rich  soil. 
Place  them  as  near  the  glass  as  convenient,  say  six  inches ;  when 
they  grow,  remove  all  but  one  plant  in  each  pot.  As  soon  as  they 
have  made  three  leaves,  pinch  them  off.  Turn  the  plants  in  the 
ground  as  soon  as  all  danger  of  frost  is  over,  without  disturbing  the 
roots.  Early  in  April  is  soon  enough  to  plant  them  in  the  pots  at  the 
north.  If  they  are  too  large  before  planting  out,  they  will  not  do 
as  well. 

To  Start  Tomatoes. — Plant  the  seed  thinly,  and  when  up,  give 
plenty  air,  and  thin  to  two  inches.  Transplant  them  three  times  be- 
fore the  final  planting,  and  trim  off  all  the  laterals  as  far  as  the  first 
fruit  branch  ;  continue  this  practice  all  summer  ;  remove  them  to  the 
garden  when  all  danger  of  frost  is  over  and  the  soil  is  warm  ;  shade 
them  from  the  sun  for  a  few  days,  sprinkle  the  leaves,  and  water  well 


DIRECTIONS   FOR   MAKING    HOT-BEDS.  347 

when  first  planted.  Tomatoes  managed  in  this  maimer  will  not 
feel  the  transplanting,  and  will  fruit  very  early.  Tomatoes  incline  to 
sucker. 

Egg  Plant. — This  requires  more  heat  than  other  vegetables,  and 
cannot  well  be  grown  with  those  requiring  more  air  and  less  heat. 
The  temperature  for  egg  plant  should  never  be  below  80°  during  the 
day,  and  may  rise  to  100°,  without  harm.  The  lowest  temperature 
at  night  should  be  70°.  Give  air  when  the  weather  will  allow,  but 
be  careful  not  to  chill  the  plants,  as  they  will  not  recover  from  it 
but  always  remain  stunted.  Transplant  to  another  bed  as  soon  as  the 
plants  have  grown  four  inches  ;  or  add  a  new  lining  to  the  old  bed, 
and  transplant  them  to  the  other  side  of  the  frame.  This  is  done  to 
induce  them  to  throw  out  roots  for  future  use.  If  the  plants  can  be 
transplanted  two  or  three  times  without  chilling,  they  will  be  better 
prepared  to  endure  their  change  when  finally  transplanted  into  the 
garden.  Water  them  well,  and  shade  until  fairly  rooted,  and  after- 
wards give  plenty  air  ;  gradually  harden  them,  and  when  trans- 
planted they  will  hardly  feel  the  removal  into  the  garden.  Stake  or 
put  a  frame  to  them  when  transplanted,  and  trim  off  all  superfluous 
branches. 

Peppers  should  be  managed  much  like  egg  plants,  but  require  very 
rich  light  soil;  water  with  manured  water,  without  touching  the 
plants,  twice  a  week,  being  careful  that  the  water  is  not  too  highly 
impregnated.  Soapsuds  from  the  wash  is  beneficial  once  a  week,  if 
not  too  strong. 

Lettuce. — Plant  early,  and  transplant  to  vacant  spots  to  head ; 
lettuce  that  has  lived  through  the  winter  in  the  garden  will  head 
nicely.    Sow  peppergrass  often,  if  relished  by  the  family. 

Sweet  Potatoes. — Procure  small  sound  tubers.  The  bed  should 
be  of  gentle  heat ;  mix  a  little  plaster  with  the  soil ;  lay  the  tubers  three 
inches  apart ;  cover  lightly  with  the  soil,  and  keep  the  bed  barely 
damp.  When  the  sprouts  are  four  inches  long  remove  them ;  and  if 
too  soon  to  plant  out,  bury  the  roots  in  the  bed.  More  sprouts  will 
grow  from  the  same  eyes.  The  20th  of  March  is  early  enough  at  the 
north  to  put  them  in  the  beds,  and  the  20th  of  M!ay  early  enough  to 
plant  them  out.  They  prefer  sand  enriched  with  vegetable  manure. 
On  heavy  soil  they  are  apt  to  be  watery. 

Cut-worm. — The  cut-worm  prefers  plants  from  hot-beds  to  others^ 


34S  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

as  they  are  more  tender  than  slow-grown  plants.  Wrap  the  stem  of 
all  plants,  before  transplanting  to  the  garden,  with  brown  paper  two 
inches  above  the  surface  of  the  soil. 

Remarks. — Plants  that  incline  to  sucker,  like  the  tomato,  should 
be  planted  deeper  every  time  they  are  transplanted,  to  induce  the 
formation  of  new  roots.  Water  can  be  left  in  the  hot-bed,  if  there  is 
room  for  the  sprinkler,  overnight ;  but  if  not,  should  be  tested  with 
a  thermometer.  Cucumber,  melon,  and  other  long-keeping  seeds, 
ought  not  to  be  too  fresh  to  plant  in  hot-beds,  as  they  incline  more  to 
leaves  than  fruit.  It  is  a  maxim  that  the  last  effort  of  nature  is  to 
reproduce  itself,  and  consequently  old  seeds  make  the  most  fruit. 
Celery,  egg  plant,  pepper,  lettuce,  should  be  quite  fresh  and  plump. 
All  seed  for  the  hot-bed  should  be  soaked ;  a  weak  solution  of  salt- 
petre is,  perhaps,  the  best  for  soaking  them  in,  but  it  must  be  pure  •, 
much  of  the  salts  of  nitre  sold  in  the  shops,  is  mixed  with  rock  salt. 
Examine  often  to  know  if  the  seeds  are  germinating  or  rotted ;  fre- 
quently much  time  is  lost  expecting  poor  seeds  to  make  their  appear- 
ance, and,  before  it  is  known  that  they  are  worthless,  the  best  heat 
of  the  bed  has  passed  off.  Seeds  bought  from  many  seedsmen  are 
but  little  to  be  depended  on.  Buist,  of  Philadelphia,  is  probably  as 
reliable  a  seedsman  as  there  is  to  be  found,  though  the  seedsman  is 
not  always  in  fault ;  the  bed  may  have  been  too  warm,  and  the  young 
plants  have  been  burned  after  germination  had  taken  place.  If  the  soil 
of  the  bed  is  filled  with  weeds,  it  will  be  necessary  to  leave  it  several 
days,  that  all  the  weed  seed  may  germinate,  and  be  destroyed  before 
putting  in  the  seed.  As  fast  as  weeds  appear,  remove  them,  or  the 
plants  will  soon  be  choked.  Remember  not  to  crowd  the  bed,  a 
dozen  good  strong  plants  are  worth  fifty  starved  ones.  At  first  thin 
but  slightly,  as  many  plants  are  lost  by  damping  off;  as  soon  as  this 
danger  is  past,  remove  all  that  are  not  needed,  without  delay,  and 
those  left  will  pay  for  the  trouble.  Increase  the  air  as  the  weather 
becomes  mild,  and  plants  strong,  and  gradually  inure  them  to  outdoor 
exposure.  Gentle  showers  are  always  useful  if  warm,  but  cold,  beat- 
ing rains  are  decidedly  injurious,  chilling  and  breaking  the  tender 
plants.  Long,  cold  rains  are  very  deleterious.  It  will  not  do  to  keep 
the  air  from  the  plants  long ;  the  manure  round  the  beds  becomes 
soaked,  and  often  the  plants  are  ruined.  Lay  boards  on  the  manure, 
to  lead  off  the  moisture,  and  dig  drains  a  little  distance  from  the  bed 
to  receive  the  water  and  carry  it  away.  Raise  the  sash  all  round, 
and  place  boards  aslant  to  prevent  the  rain  beating  in.    "Whenever 


DIRECTIONS    FOR    MAKING    HOT-BEDS.  349 

the  sun  shows  itself,  air,  if  only  for  ten  minutes.  As  plants  grow, 
raise  the  sash  so  that  the  leaves  will  not  touch  the  glass.  The  frames 
should  have  side  pieces  to  fit  them,  two  or  three  inches  wide,  to  use 
as  the  plants  increase  in  size.  A  record  should  be  kept  of  the  bed ; 
when  seeds  were  planted,  when  they  germinated,  and  when  trans- 
planted. Tallies  should  also  be  put  by  every  patch  of  seed,  and  as 
the  moisture  often  obliterates  the  names  from  them,  numbers  or 
notches  cut  in  them  corresponding  to  the  record  in  the  diary,  will  be 
found  more  certainly  to  be  depended  upon.  A  corresponding  number 
on  the  seed  packet  will  be  convenient  to  replant  from,  if  need  be. 
"When  through  with  the  frames  and  sash,  they  should  be  put  in  order, 
and  carefully  stored  where  the  sash  cannot  be  broken  or  weather- 
beaten  ;  if  the  paint  is  poor,  now  is  the  time  to  add  a  coat.  If  done 
in  the  spring,  it  will  last  but  little  time,  having  no  time  to  season.  A 
hot-bed,  six  feet  square,  will  furnish  many  comforts  to  a  small  family, 
or  forward  a  large  number  of  plants,  and  the  manure  is  but  little 
injured  as  it  is  usually  used.  Every  family  that  has  a  garden  will 
find  them  a  great  comfort,  fully  paying  for  their  trouble,  as  well  as  a 
source  of  much  pleasure. 


CHAPTER   V. 

INSECTS   INJUEIOUS    TO  AGEICULTUEE,  AND    TEOTTBLESOME    TO   THE 
HOUSEKEEPEE. 

Eemarks. — In  a  work  of  this  character,  it  is  quite  impossible  to 
enter  into  a  scientific  description  of  the  many  insects,  troublesome 
alike  to  the  farmer,  fruit  cultivator,  gardener,  and  florist.  The  nat- 
uralist would  find  a  scientific  description  agreeable  to  the  taste,  but 
to  the  utilitarian,  all  that  is  necessary  is  a  knowledge  of  the  habits, 
modes  of  propagation,  haunts,  senses,  duration  of  life,  to  this  class  of 
insects.  Those  destructive  to  grain  and  troublesome  to  cotton  will 
not  be  noticed,  as  this  work  is  not  intended  for  the  agriculturist  alone, 
but  principally  for  the  use  of  families,  in  the  cultivation  of  small  gar- 
dens of  fruits,  flowers,  and  vegetables. 

List  of  Insects. — The  following  are  the  most  destructive  to  the 
vegetable  garden :  wire-worm,  larva  of  the  May-beetle,  tomato  worm, 
striped-bug,  squash-bug,  strawberry  worm,  aphis,  radish-maggot,  and 
rose-bug. 


350  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Cut  Worm. — This  worm  is  an  annual,  or  as  it  might,  in  some 
cases,  be  called  biennial,  the  late  perfected  insects  laying  their  eggs 
late  in  the  fall,  which  being  hatched  just  before  winter,  live  until  the 
"spring,  continuing  their  ravages  through  May  and  June.  The  mil- 
lers are  timid,  and  seek  hiding-places  to  lay  their  eggs ;  they  select 
pink  borders,  or  any  broad-leaved  plant ;  thousands  of  them  have 
been  destroyed  in  the  author's  garden,  under  the  leaves  of  the  rhubarb 
plants.  The  color  of  the  worm  or  caterpillar  is  brown  of  different 
shades,  and  they  are  found  from,  the  size  of  a  knitting  needle,  an 
eighth  of  an  inch  or  less  long,  to  the  size  of  a  man's  little  finger,  one 
and  a  half  inch  long.  They  dislike  the  heat  and  brightness  of  the 
sun,  feed  at  night,  or  before  the  sun  is  high  in  the  morning,  hiding 
under  leaves,  or  just  below  the  surface  of  the  soil  near  where  they 
have  been  feeding.  If  searched  for  early  in  the  morning,  they  will 
be  found  without  difficulty.  The  greater  part  of  these  worms  will 
cease  their  ravages  with  the  commencement  of  July,  but  some  will  be 
found  until  winter  sets  in.  Nothing  offends  them  by  the  senses,  ex- 
cept heat  and  cold.  The  only  way  to  get  rid  of  these  pests  is  to 
gather  and  destroy  them,  but  as  their  death  often  takes  place  after 
the  mischief  has  been  done,  it  seems  much  like  shutting  the  gate  after 
hogs  have  destroyed  the  garden.  These  creatures  seem  to  have  but 
little  choice  in  their  food,  taking  any  thing  that  is  tender  enough  for 
them  to  bite,  from  the  sweet  young  corn  to  the  smarting  pepper. 
They  cut  the  plant  just  above  the  soil,  seldom  reaching  half  an  inch 
above  the  stem.  Transplanted  plants  can  be  protected  by  wrapping 
the  tender  stems  in  brown  paper  two  inches  above  their  insertion  in 
the  soil ;  those  not  transplanted  can  be  protected  by  rings  of  tin,  made 
to  clasp  together,  one  or  two  inches  high,  making  a  ring  about  four 
inches  in  diameter.  Search  the  soil  for  the  worm  before  putting  the 
ring  around  the  plant,  and  press  it-  slightly  in  the  soil.  Our  gardener 
uses  hundreds  of  these  rings ;  they  are  gathered  when  the  plants 
toughen,  and  taken  care  of  from  year  to  year.  In  a  field  of  corn,  these 
rings  would  be  too  expensive  a  protection ;  we  have  saved  our  corn 
by  sowing  lettuce  broadcast  in  the  field  with  the  corn,  at  the  time  of 
planting  the  corn ;  the  lettuce  being  more  tender  than  the  corn,  is 
preferred  by  the  worm,  and  by  the  time  it  is  consumed  the  corn  is 
too  tough  to  be  in  much  danger.  It  is  well,  too,  to  plant  half  as  much 
more  corn  as  will  crop  the  field,  to  allow  for  losses.  Many  cut-worms' 
winter-quarters  are  disturbed  by  raking  off  all  the  rubbish  of  the  gar- 
den. Lifting  the  borders  and  raking  out  the  soil,  will  expose  many 
young  grubs  to  the  cold,  if  done  just  before  freezing  weather  comes  on. 


INSECTS    INJURIOUS    TO    AGRICULTURE.  351 

Chickens  let  out  in  the  morning  before  the  sun  rises  will  destroy  great 
numbers,  and  if  shut  up  by  eight,  will  do  but  little  other  mischief; 
at  least,  the  good  will  overbalance  the  evil.  As  soon  in  autumn  as 
the  crops  which  chickens  would  trouble  are  gathered,  let  them  have 
a  free  run  of  the  garden,  also  keep  hens  in  coops,  with  chickens,  in  the 
garden  during  the  whole  season,  and  these  creatures  will  be  very  much 
diminished  in  numbers. 

Wire-Worm. — This  worm  lives,  from  its  hatching  until  it  takes  a 
perfect  form,  seven  years ;  it  destroys  roots,  seeds,  grasses,  etc.  It 
seems  to  have  but  little  choice  in  the  selection  of  food ;  destroys  seeds 
especially  corn  and  peas.  It  is  usually  seen  of  a  yellowish  brown, 
more  of  the  yellow  than  brown  predominating  in  the  color.  When 
found  white,  it  has  just  cast  its  skin,  which  it  does  frequently.  These 
worms  may  be  destroyed  in  numbers  when  the  spading  is  done.  If 
the  workman  will  throw  the  soil  so  as  to  pulverize  it,  he  will  see  them 
immediately.  They  can  be  entrapped  if  very  troublesome  ;  the  barren 
tubers  of  dahlias  suit  them  well ;  where  they  are  very  troublesome, 
in  small  gardens  it  pays  well  to  raise  dahlias,  and  use  the  tubers  in 
this  manner  ;  dozens  will  be  found  in  one  tuber  ;  they  should  be  ex- 
amined once  each  week,  the  worms  destroyed,  and  the  tubers  re- 
planted. Whenever  weeding  is  done  by  hand,  they  will  be  found  in 
the  roots  of  the  grass  and  weeds,  particularly  young  dock.  Throwing 
up  the  garden  in  ridges  late  in  autumn  will  kill  numbers.  Corn 
cobs  spaded  in  the  ground  are  said  to  destroy  them ;  the  worm  eats 
into  the  centre  of  the  cob  and  perishes,  not  being  able  to  extricate 
itself  to  seek  winter-quarters.  The  cobs  should  be  near  the  surface, 
so  as  to  be  reached  by  the  frost  to  kill  the  worm.  To  prevent  the 
destruction  of  seeds  by  this  worm,  soak  them  in  a  solution  of  pure 
saltpetre  ;  taste  the  solution ;  if  saline,  there  is  rock  salt  mixed  with 
the  saltpetre,  and  will  retard  the  germination  of  the  seed. 

Larva  of  the  Cockchafer,  Dorr  Beetle,  or  May-Bug. — This 
worm,  called  familiarly  by  farmers  the  corn- worm,  is  the  larva  of  the 
May-bug,  or  as  it  is  usually  called,  the  horn-bug.  It  is  a  large,  disgust- 
ing maggot,  of  a  dirty  white,  with  reddish  head,  large  mouth,  and 
red  legs,  usually  curls  up  when  touched.  It  is  found  of  all  sizes,  the 
largest  being  about  one  and  a  half  inch  long,  and  as  thick  as  a  man's 
little  finger.  The  beetle  deposits  her  eggs  in  the  ground  in  June  and 
July,  they  are  hatched  in  from  two  to  three  months,  and  continue  in 
the  larva  state  from  three  to  four  years,  devouring  indiscriminately 


352  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

every  root  within  their  reach.  They  particularly  fancy  the  roots  ol 
corn  and  strawberries,  though  they  will  eat  any  thing,  even  to  bark 
the  roots  of  young  apple  trees.  We  lost,  one  season,  five  thousand 
strawberry  plants,  that  had  fruited  once.  These  grubs  will  be  found 
curled  around  or  near  the  crowns  of  the  plants  on  which  they  are 
feasting ;  their  manner  of  proceeding  in  fibrous-rooted,  is  to  eat  the 
bark  from  the  root  near  the  surface,  thus  destroying  all  connection 
between  the  fibrous  roots  and  the  crown.  If  they  would  content 
themselves  with  the  fibres  or  tap  roots,  the  injury  they  occasion 
would  be  much  less.  In  potatoes  and  tubers  they  eat  into  the  heart ; 
we  have  seen  them  nearly  covered  by  the  tuber  they  were  eating. 
To  destroy  them  effectually,  so  as  to  rid  a  garden,  the  beetles  must 
themselves  be  caught.  Early  in  May,  they  will  be  seen  emerging 
from  their  winter-quarters,  where  they  have  taken  the  form  of  the 
perfect  insect.  They  come  out,  principally,  at  evening ;  now,  if  the 
chickens  are  at  hand,  they  can  have  a  feast ;  if  not,  children  should 
gather  them,  and  feed  the  chickens.  If  fires  are  made  every  evening 
during  May,  June,  and  July,  numbers  will  be  decoyed  into  the  blaze, 
as  they  always  fly  towards  a  light,  and  at  the  same  time,  the  moths 
of  the  different  parts  of  the  garden  will  share  the  same  fate.  If  fires 
are  made,  shake  the  cherry  and  other  trees,  to  dislodge  the  lazy  ones, 
and  set  them  flying  to  their  grave.  This  is  to  boys  a  great  source  of 
amusement,  and  can  always  be  accomplished  if  there  is  a  spot  to  build 
the  fire,  without  scorching  trees  and  plants.  In  spading,  many  of  the 
torpid  bugs  will  be  turned  up  as  well  as  worms,  pass  none  by,  de- 
stroy all,  without  mercy.  If  they  are  among  the  strawberries,  ex- 
amine each  plant,  and  remove  them ;  one  grub  will  eat  a  whole  row, 
passing  from  one  to  the  other,  as  though  they  worked  by  a  line. 
Allow  no  birds  to  be  shot  on  the  premises ;  they  had  better  take  their 
share  of  fruit  with  the  grubs,  than  to  take  no  grubs.  In  the 
garden,  when  the  green  corn  is  used  for  the  table,  pull  up  the 
roots  and  destroy  the  grubs.  There  is  no  use  liming,  sooting, 
sulphuring,  or  in  any  way  frightening  them ;  they  can  not  be  driven. 
Extermination  by  prevention  and  death  is  the  only  remedy  worth 
trying. 

Tomato  Worm. — This  great  worm  is  known  to  all  who  grow  toma- 
toes; they  strip  a  plant  of  the  leaves,  and  then  attack  the  green 
fruit ;  there  is  no  remedy  but  fowls,  birds,  and  hand-picking.  These 
are  annual,  and  many  of  the  chrysalis  will  be  found  in  the  spring,  where 


INSECTS    INJURIOUS   TO    AGRICULTURE.  353 

tomatoes  were  grown.    They  are  nearly  or  quite  as  large  as  the  worm, 
and  a  reddish  color ;  destroy  all  you  find. 

Strawberry  Worm. — A  small  green  maggot  appears  on  the  vines 
of  the  thinnest-leaved  strawberry,  which  eats  the  whole  of  the  leaf 
except  the  veins ;  I  have  not  been  able  to  discover  what  the  green 
maggot  was.  The  only  remedy  is  to  coop  young  chickens  near,  which 
will  soon  remedy  the  evil.  If  not  checked,  they  will  destroy  the 
vines,  root  and  branch. 

Eadish  Maggot. — In  new  soils,  this  maggot  is  seldom  trouble- 
some. Grow  the  radishes  fast,  scatter  and  rake  in  the  soil  wheat 
bran  for  the  maggots  to  eat,  instead  of  the  root.  Light  sand  is  less 
infested  with  this  plague  to  lovers  of  good  radishes,  than  dark  ri#h 
soil. 

Striped  Bug,  or  June  Bug. — This  is  a  small  yellow  bug,  usually 
most  plenty  in  June,  though  often  lasting  the  whole  season.  "We 
have  found  that  they  may  be  kept  in  check  by  the  use  of  quicklime, 
sifted  over  the  plants.  On  a  patch  of  two  or  more  acres,  we  seldom 
lose  a  vine ;  our  plan  is,  to  sift  lime  over  each  vine  when  the  first  bug 
is  seen,  not  wait  until  the  vines  are  overrun  with  them,  and  we  never 
fail  to  save  them,  even  when  our  neighbors  are  unable  to  raise  a 
melon  or  cucumber.  The  lime  must  be  applied  at  sundown,  when 
the  dew  is  on  the  leaves,  or  after  a  slight  shower,  and  this  must  be 
repeated  as  often  as  the  lime  is  washed  off  by  rains.  Air-slacked 
lime  of  full  strength  is  what  we  use,  old  lime  would  not  be  as  effec- 
tive. Many  advise  sulphur,  soot,  ashes,  snuff,  manure,  water,  etc., 
each  of  which  we  tried  before  lime,  but  for  several  years  have  used 
lime  alone,  with  the  best  success ;  it  is  also  a  benefit  to  the  plants, 
furnishing  them  with  a  useful  stimulant. 

Squash-Bug. — This  miserable  bug  is  a  dirty  brown,  so  near  the 
color  of  the  ground  as  to  be  imperceptible  to  an  inattentive  observer, 
and  so  timid,  that  without  the  utmost  caution  in  approaching  them 
they  hide  so  as  not  to  be  found.  .  They  are  very  injurious  to 
the  plant,  seeking  the  juices,  or  poisoning  every  stalk  they  pierce,  so 
that  it  will  wither,  making  its  removal  necessary.  They  emit,  in 
crushing,  a  very  disagreeable  odor,  resembling  the  bed-bug.  Their 
eggs  will  be  found  on  the  underside  of  the  leaf,  where,  if  undis- 
turbed, they  will  soon  hatch,  and  destroy  the  whole  plant ;  crush  the 


354  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

eggs ;  sprinkle  with  flour  of  sulphur,  look  over  the  plants  daily,  and 
destroy  the  bugs. 

Aphis,  oe  Plant-louse. — The  common  aphis,  or  plant-louse,  found 
more  or  less  on  the  stems,  leaves,  buds,  and  often  the  roots  of  most 
plants,  is  a  small,  soft,  usually  green-colored  insect  with  a  short,  oval 
body,  small  head,  round  eyes,  long  tubular  beak,  long  tapering  anten- 
nae, long  slender  legs,  two  jointed  feet,  and  a  tube  at  the  hinder  ex- 
tremity, from  which  it  ejects  at  pleasure  drops  of  sweet  fluid.    The 
females  are  wingless.    In  the  autumn,  the  winged  insects  or  males 
may  be  seen,  immediately  after  which  the  female  lays  her  eggs,  and 
both  die.     Early  in  the  spring  the  eggs  hatch,  producing  females 
only,  which  are  immediately  in  a  state  to  continue  their  kind.     In  the 
course   of  forty-eight    hours  these  produce  alive  nearly  or  quite 
twenty  young  lice,  in  the  same  state  as  their  parent.    These  again 
bring  forth  their  young  as  did  their  parent;   and  thus  brood  after 
brood  is  produced  for  seven  generations,  without  the  appearance  of  a 
male.    The  last  brood;  consisting  of  males  and  females,  pair,  lay  their 
eggs,  and  become  extinct- until  the  next  season.    These  little  creatures 
do  much  mischief,  sucking  the  sap  from  the  tender  branches  of  the 
plants  they  infest,  and  would  be  far  more  injurious  had  they  not  some 
natural  enemies,  to  thin  their  ranks.     Their  enemies  are  birds,  the 
larva  of  the  lady-bird,  the  young  of  the  golden-eyed,  laced-winged 
fly,  and  the  maggots  of  the  flies,  belonging  to  the  genus  Syrphus. 
The  aphis  has,  however,  one  friend  which  protects  and  watches  it 
with  anxious  care.    Wherever  the  plant-lice  are  to  be  found,  there 
may  be  seen  ants,  running  up  and  down  the  trunk  or  stem  of  the  tree 
or  plant,  gathering  the  sweet  drops  which  exude  from  the  lice,  often 
hastening  the  periods  of  its  discharge,  by  caressing  the  insects  with 
their  antennae.     They  protect  the  lice  which  infest  the  roots  of 
plants,  with  the  same  care  they  do  their  own  young ;  and  look  after 
the  eggs,  often  moistening  them  with  their  tongue.     Plants  infested 
with  lice  should  be  protected  from  the  ants  ;  chalk  the  tree,  or  place 
a  ring  of  chalk  close  to  the  body,  and  below  the  surface,  around  the 
plant  or  tree.     Water  with  an  infusion  of' quassia  chips,  or  tobacco, 
and  rinse  the  plants  after  a  short  time.     "When  the  plants  infested  are 
delicate,  they  had  better  be  brushed  off,  than  wet  with  either  of  the 
above  infusions.     If  the  first  lice  are  destroyed,  there  will  be  no  fu- 
ture trouble ;    cabbages  and  other  vegetables  may  be  dusted  with 
lime  or  ashes.     To  destroy  lice  on  the  roots  of  plants ;   water  with 
soapsuds,  or  a  weak  solution  of  saltpetre,  and  mix  chalk  with  the 


INSECTS    INJURIOUS   TO    AGRICULTURE.  355 

soil.  There  are  also  other  colored  plant-lice  beside  the  common  green, 
or  the  aphis  rosea ;  those  on  the  cabbage  have  a  mealy  appearance ; 
those  found  on  the  willow  are  of  a  black  color,  which,  when  crushed, 
leave  a  reddish  stain ;  those  found  on  roots  are  white.  Some  inhabit 
tumors,  growing  upon  leaves,  and  are  usually  without  honey  tubes, 
and  clothed  with  a  white  down.  There  is  also  a  species  of  this  insect, 
called  by  some  the  woolly  aphis ;  it  is  found  on  the  tender  branches 
and  suckers  of  apple  trees ;  when  crushed,  they  leave  a  stain,  resem- 
bling blood.  Out  off  the  suckers  and  infested  branches,  and  burn 
them ;  remove  the  soil  from  the  trunk,  and  scrub  the  whole  tree  to 
the  root,  with  the  wash  recommended  for  apple  trees. 

Bark  Lice,  or  Soaly  Aphis. — These  are  of  different  shapes ;  some 
are  oval,  others  convex,  kidney  shaped,  globular,  like  a  muscle  or  bot- 
tom of  a  boat.  They  subsist  principally  on  the  juices  of  the  stem 
and  trunk  of  tree  or  plant ;  some,  however,  inhabit  the  leaves,  and  a 
few  the  roots  of  plants.  The  best  way  to  rid  a  tree  of  these  insects, 
is  to  scrub  the  whole  tree  early  in  the  spring  with  the  prepared  soda 
wash.  Eemove  the  soil,  and  wash  the  trunk  to  the  roots,  and  water 
with  strong  soapsuds,  soaking  the  soil  as  far  as  the  roots  extend.  If 
the  tree  is  very  bad,  repeat  the  washing  the  first  of  June. 

Kose-Bug  or  Saw-Flt. — The  larva  of  this  bug  infests  the  bud  of 
the  rose,  and  many  other  plants,  but  from  its  being  so  very  trouble- 
some to  the  rose  cultivator,  it  has  of  late  been  called  the  rose-bug  al- 
most entirely.  The  perfect  insect,  which  is  a  beautiful  creature, 
lays  its  eggs  in  the  flower-bud,  in  which  the  grub  is  hatched,  eating 
its  way  out,  destroying  the  petals  in  its  way.  The  rose  has  an  insect 
called  a  leaf  roller,  and  another  which  is  called  a  leaf  miner,  which 
cuts  the  pulp  of  the  leaf,  marking  its  course  by  yellowish  zigzag  lines; 
the  only  method  that  effectually  rids  the  rose  of  these  pests  is  hand 
picking.  Dust  with  sulphur,  and  water  with  quassia,  if  very  nu- 
merous. 

Apple-Borer. — The  apple  borer  is  a  deceitful  foe,  doing  its  mis- 
chief unseen ;  when  only  a  few  small  holes  can  be  seen,  the  whole 
wood  inside  the  bark  may  be  reduced  to  powder.  The  perfect  insect 
is  a  brown  and  white  striped  beetle,  half  an  inch  long,  seldom  seen 
by  day,  as  it  flies  by  night.  It  deposits  eggs  in  the  bark  near  the 
surface  of  the  ground,  late  in  the  spring,  or  the  first  of  summer.  Its 
presence  is  first  indicated  by  small  holes,  as  large  as  buck-shot,  from 
which  ere  long  a  fine  dust  will  be  ejected ;  this  is  the  borings  of  the 


356  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

insect.  Unless  the  tree  is  taken  in  time  it  -will  be  impossible  to  sax? 
it.  If  the  insect  has  only  perforated  the  bark,  it  can  be  cut  out ;  if 
deeper  in  the  wood,  follow  it  with  a  wire  and  crush  it  in  its  den  ;  if  it 
cannot  be  reached,  plug  the  holes,  that  the  insect  may  not  emerge 
and  lay  its  eggs.  To  prevent  the  insect  from  laying  its  egs,  remove 
the  soil  from  the  roots,  and  wash  the  tree  around  its  base  with  a 
mixture  of  the  soda  wash,  tobacco,  and  flour  of  sulphur ;  or  with  a 
receipt  of  Mr.  Thomas,  which  is :  "  To  one  pint  of  sulphur  a  gallon 
of  soft  soap,  and  sufficient  strong  tobacco  water  to  reduce  the  whole 
to  the  consistency  of  paint."  It  is  also  recommended  to  inject  this 
preparation  in  the  holes  of  the  insects.  The  quince  is  also  troubled 
by  this  borer. 

The  Cateepillae. — The  common  orchard  caterpillar  is  hatched  at 
the  same  time  the  leaf  buds  begin  to  open.  At  first  it  is  very  mi- 
nute, but  rapidly  increases  in  size  until  it  measures  two  inches  in 
length,  when  it  spins  a  cocoon  and  passes  to  the  pupa  state.  In  the 
latter  part  of  summer  it  comes  out  in  the  form  of  a  yellowish  bro\vn 
miller,  deposits  its  eggs  in  rings,  encircling  the  smaller  branches,  near 
the  extremities,  containing  from  three  to  five  hundred.  These  are 
protected  by  a  sort  of  varnish,  where  they  remain  until  spring,  and  are 
hatched  as  has  already  been  described.  These  caterpillars  very  mate- 
rially injure  the  fruit,  as  the  leaves  are  entirely  destroyed,  looking 
much  like  a  branch  burned  by  fire.  Search  the  trees  late  in  autumn, 
and  cut  off  all  the  nests  of  eggs.  If  one  is  neglected  until  it  is  hatched, 
remove  it  as  speedily  as  possible. 

The  Cakker  Woem. — This  worm  attacks  both  fruit  and  flower. 
They  cover  the  tree  with  small  webs,  and  destroy  the  foliage,  which 
gives  to  the  tree  the  appearance  of  having  been  scorched  by  fire. 
The  only  remedy  recommended  by  Thomas  is  to  encircle  the  tree 
with  a  canvas  belt  coated  with  tar  and  train  oil. 

The  Apple-woem. — This  attacks  the  fruit  at  the  blossom  end,  eat- 
ing its  way  to  the  core.  Destroy  all  imperfect  fruit,  and  keep  up 
fires  at  night  to  attract  the  millers. 

Peach-Boeee. — The  perfect  insect  somewhat  resembles  the  wasp, 
though  destitute  of  the  sting,  and  in  other  respects  entirely  distinct. 
It  deposits  its  eggs  at  the  foot  of  the  tree,  from  June  until  the  latter 
part  of  autumn,  which  hatch  and  enter  the  bark  of  the  tree ;  the 
peach-borer  does  not  perforate  the  wood,  like  the  apple-borer,  but 


INSECTS   INJURIOUS    TO   AGRICULTURE.  357 

does  its  mischief  by  girdling  the  tree.  Its  presence  is  indicated  by 
exudations  of  gum,  when  the  insect  should  be  searched  for  and 
probed  to  death,  or  cut  out.  Ashes  piled  round  the  tree,  allowing  a 
peck  to  a  tree,  will  prevent  their  entering  the  root,  though  they 
sometimes  will  enter  above  the  ashes ;  wrapping  the  tree  in  canvas, 
with  the  ashes  below,  is  also  a  good  plan.  Scalding  the  trees  will 
prevent  the  eggs  hatching,  though  if  this  is  carried  to  too  great  an 
extent  it  will  kill  the  trees.  Sulphur  is  also  efficacious  as  a  preven- 
tive, and  the  paint  of  sulphur,  tobacco,  and  soap,  advised  for  the 
apple-borer,  will  be  found  useful. 

Curculio. — The  curculio,  to  a  common  observer,  is  well  described 
by  saying  it  as  much  resembles  a  ripe  hemp-seed  as  any  thing.  This 
pest  of  the  plum  and  its  varieties  commences,  almost  as  soon  as  the 
blossoms  fall,  to  puncture  the  fruit,  making  a  crescent  shaped  inci- 
sion. The  egg  soon  hatches,  and  the  young  larva  makes  its  way  to 
the  centre  of  the  plum,  feeding  in  its  way  on  the  pulp  of  the  fruit, 
causing  it  to  fall  to  the  ground  before  maturing.  Many  remedies 
have  been  tried,  some  with  partial,  and  others  with  entire  success. 
Jarring  the  trees,  salting  the  soil,  allowing  half  a  peck  to  a  good 
sized  tree,  throwing  lime,  sulphur,  and  ashes  on  the  trees  dry,  and 
also  injecting  them  with  a  syringe  mixed  to  the  consistency  of  paint. 
Tying  tansy  in  the  tree  has  been  also  found  useful,  and  smoking  with 
sulphur  and  tobacco.  All  the  imperfect  fruit  should  be  destroyed  as 
it  falls,  and  one  of  the  above  remedies  resorted  to  until  something 
better  is  known.  It  is  to  be  hoped,  if  there  is  a  better  remedy,  it 
will  soon  be  made  public.  I  would  advise  trying  chalk  around  the 
tree,  so  as  to  touch  the  trunk,  and  extend  one  or  two  feet  around  it ; 
also  to  wash  in  the  soda  water  wash,  scrubbing  the  bark  with  a  stiff 
brush.  If  a  tree  is  planted  where  the  family  pass  it  constantly,  or  so 
near  water  that  the  branches  reach  over  the  stream,  or  so  near  a 
barn  that  the  fermenting  manure  will  trouble  the  insect,  it  is  probable 
it  would  perfect  its  fruit  without  farther  trouble.  A  bed  of  herbs, 
such  as  tansy,  camomile,  and  wormwood,  might  perhaps  offend  them. 
Camomile  is  particularly  offensive  to  all  insects. 

Cuerant-Borek. — Eemove  all  the  wood  infested  by  the  borer,  fol- 
lowing it  up  until  the  insect  is  found ;  wash  the  bushes  in  the  paint 
of  sulphur,  tobacco,  and  soap,  recommended  for  the  apple-borer. 
Kemove  the  soil  from  around  them  early  in  autumn,  and  replace  with 
fresh,  to  destroy  the  cocoons,  if  there  are  any. 


358  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Kaspberry-Borer. — Kemove  all  infested  canes,  and  renew  the  soil 
around  the  stools. 

Caterpillar  on  Gooseberry. — Dust  with  sulphur,  sprinkle  with 
soapsuds,  and  with  water  slightly  impregnated  with  salt. 

Grape-Worm. — To  rid  a  vine  of  small  insects,  syringe  with  a  solu- 
tion of  whale-oil  soap.  Gather  the  beetles  and  destroy  them,  and  pick 
off  the  caterpillars. 

Ant-hills,  Etc. — Scald  the  hills,  when  it  can  he  done  without  de- 
stroying plants,  with  hot  soda  water.  Use  lime  or  chalk  to  starve 
them  out,  making  circles  around  their  hills,  which  they  will  never 
cross.  Chalk  is  to  them  probably  poisonous,  as  an  ant  never  crosses 
a  chalk  line  under  any  circumstances.  Make  rings  of  chalk  around 
the  shrubs  and  plants  they  trouble,  three  inches  from  the  plant  or 
stem,  and  they  will  not  ascend  it. 

Bed-bugs. — Young  housekeepers  should  have  every  bedstead 
oiled  before  setting  up,  with  the  following  receipt,  and  continue  to 
use  it  once  every  year,  in  the  month  of  March.  If  there  are  bugs  in 
the  house  and  bedsteads,  oil  the  cracks  of  the  rooms  where  they  are, 
and  the  bedsteads,  every  month,  until  they  disappear,  and  afterwards 
yearly.  To  one  pint  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  add  one  ounce  of  corro- 
sive sublimate,  put  it  in  a  bottle  and  shake  well.  Apply  with  a 
feather.    Label  the  bottle,  "  Bed-bug  Poison." 

Moths. — Procure  an  old  whiskey  barrel,  perfectly  tight,  and  free 
from  worm  holes  ;  place  it  in  a  dry  garret ;  dust  it  out,  but  do  not 
wet  it ;  shake  all  the  furs  and  woollens  free  from  dust,  and  if  they 
have  lain  until  May,  lay  them  in  the  sun.  Then  pack  the  goods  and 
furs  smoothly  in  the  barrel  and  close  tightly.  If  you  please,  put  a 
half-ounce  of  Bergainot  in  the  barrel  with  the  goods,  to  prevent  them 
from  having  an  unpleasant  odor  from  the  whiskey.  Camphor,  shav- 
ings of  red  cedar,  cloves,  and  tobacco,  are  all  preventives.  Furs 
and  shawls  wrapped  in  newspaper  are  seldom  troubled  with  them ; 
this  will  be  well  to  remember  in  putting  down  carpets  where  moths 
have  been  found  in  the  cracks  of  the  floor.  Carpets  are  sometimes 
ruined  while  in  use,  before  their  presence  is  observed. 

Crickets. — Arsenic  on  apple  or  cabbage  leaves  will  destroy 
crickets.  Cayenne  pepper  will  drive  them  from  their  haunts  if  it  can 
be  ejected  into  the  cracks  where  they  are. 


INSECTS    INJURIOUS    TO    AGRICULTURE.  359 

To  Entrap  Eed  Ants. — Set  a  plate  of  sugar  on  the  shelf  where 
they  congregate,  and  burn  the  insects  as  fast  as  the  plate  fills. 
Hickory  and  maple-bark  also  attract  ants.  The  bark  can  be  burned 
and  renewed  frequently,  which  will  soon  thin  them. 

To  Protect  from  Ants. — Chalk  the  sides  of  jars  containing  sweet- 
meats, sugar  barrels,  or  any  thing  which  these  insects  infest,  and  they 
will  not  trouble  them.  If  the  shelves  of  the  buttery  are  chalked  for 
half  an  inch  all  around  the  wall,  both  upper  and  lower  sides,  the  ants 
will  not  cross  the  chalk,  and  thus  the  shelves  will  be  entirely  protected. 
If  any  dishes  are  allowed  to  touch  the  wall,  the  ants  will  soon  cross  over 
on  them,  and  the  chalking  be  of  no  avail. 

Eats. — Chloride  of  lime,  scattered  in  the  cellar,  is  said  to  drive  x 
off  rats. 

Fleas. — Camomile  and  pennyroyal  is  said  to  be  repulsive  to  fleas, 
and  to  effectually  prevent  their  attacks  on  children  who  have  a  bag 
of  these  herbs  about  their  person.  In  some  localities  children  suffer 
greatly  by  the  sting  of  these  insects.  Wash  the  bites  in  a  solution  of 
ammonia. 

To  Destroy  Flies. — If  mosquito  bars  are  used  in  the  windows, 
and  doors  are  kept  closed,  flies  will  trouble  the  parlors  but  little. 
Cobalt  wet  on  plates  will  destroy  them,  but  is  very  poisonous,  and 
must  be  kept  where  children  cannot  reach  it.  Black  pepper,  with  sugar 
and  water,  or  cream,  is  also  a  good  thing  to  use  for  the  same  purpose, 
and  much  less  dangerous  than  cobalt  where  there  are  young  children. 

Spiders. — Sweep  down  and  destroy  all  nests,  out  of  doors  and  in, 
until  through  the  month  of  August,  and  there  will  be  but  few  left  to 
trouble  the  housekeeper  during  autumn. 

Mosquitoes. — Where  they  abound  in  numbers,  bars  should  be 
used  around  the  beds.  If  a  few  light  on  the  wall,  touch  them  lightly 
with- the  blaze  of  a  candle,  without  burning  or  smoking  the  paper. 
Ammonia  is  useful  to  remove  the  poison  of  the  bites. 

Cockroaches. — Cats  will  destroy  numbers  if  they  can  get  at 
them.  Strychnine,  spread  on  bread,  butter,  and  sugar,  will  destroy 
numbers.  It  is  a  deadly  poison,  and  must  be  used  with  great  caution. 
Eemove  all  eatables  before  using  it,  and  wash  the  shelves  thoroughly, 
to  remove  all  the  poison. 


PART  II. 


CHAPTER    I. 

CURING  MEATS,  AND  DAIRY. 

Remarks. — It  is  usually  thought  that  the  parts  of  the  animal 
which  contain  the  fewest  large  blood-vessels  are  the  best  for  salting. 
Salt  has  the  property  of  dissolving  fibre,  thus  reducing  the  amount  of 
fluid  in  the  meat.  If  too  much  is  used,  too  much  of  the  fibre  will  be 
dissolved,  and  the  meat,  if  very  lean,  will  be  hard  and  unhealthy. 
The  only  salt  safe  to  use  in  curing  meats  is  the  evaporated  salt ;  the 
common  barrel  salt  is  so  often  adulterated  with  lime  as  to  render  it  unsafe 
to  use.  Saltpetre  too  is  now  often  adulterated  with  salt,  rendering 
it  almost  worthless.  Pork  must  never  be  packed  in  a  beef  barrel,  no 
matter  how  well  cleansed ;  there  is  something  about  the  two  that  will 
not  allow  them  to  come  in  contact.  If  a  small  piece  of  beef  should 
be  laid  in  the  pork  barrel  the  whole  would  soon  be  ruined.  All  ani- 
mal heat  should  be  removed  from  meats  as  soon  as  possible  after 
being  killed.  The  animal  should  not  be  cut  until  it  is  cold,  or  if  cut, 
not  salted.  Meat  preserves  much  better  without  bone ;  remove  all 
that  is  possible  before  salting.  If  you  do  not  understand  cutting  up  a 
creature  properly,  employ  a  butcher,  and  notice  his  movements,  that 
you  may  be  prepared  for  the  next  season.  If  dried  beef  is  wanted, 
the  hind  quarter  should  be  selected.  It  is  the  best  for  family  use, 
whether  the  ham  is  dried  or  not,  as  it  makes  fine  pieces  for  slicing 
cold. 

To  Cure  Hams  Fixely. — Allow  for  every  hundred  pounds  of  ham 
two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  four  pounds  of  rock  salt  pulverized,  or 
evaporated  salt  ground  fine,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  saltpetre  pulver- 


CURING   MEATS.  361 

ized;  mix  these  together,  and  add  sufficient  molasses  to  make  a 
thick  batter.  Kub  the  hams  thoroughly  with  the  batter,  pack  them 
close  in  a  keg,  skin  side  down ;  let  them  lie  five  days ;  then  take 
them  out,  rub  each  ham  again,  and  repack,  putting  the  top  one  down, 
thus  reversing  the  order  of  the  hams,  laying  the  skin  side  down.  Let 
them  lie  five  days  longer.  Take  lye,  made  of  clean  house  ashes, 
strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg ;  reduce  it  half ;  there  should  be  suffi- 
cient lye  to  form  a  pickle  that  will  cover  the  hams ;  add  to  the  lye 
all  the  rock  salt  it  will  dissolve  cold ;  let  it  settle,  and  skim  well ; 
then  pour  it  over  the  hams,  and  let  them  lie  in  the  piokle  until  cured 
through.  Medium  hams,  in  a  temperature  above  freezing,  will  cure 
in  about  twenty  days.  If  difficult  to  make  lye,  use  a  pound  of  sale- 
ratus  dissolved  in  soft  water.  "When  the  hams  are  cured,  hang  them 
in  a  cool  place  to  drain ;  when  a  little  dried,  smoke  them.  The  best 
smoke  is  from  corncobs.  If  you  put  under  the  hams  a  piece  of  brim- 
stone as  large  as  a  small  hickory  nut  three  times,  they  will  smoke  in 
two  or  three  days ;  or,  if  the  smoke  continues  all  night,  in  sixty 
hours ;  the  brimstone  leaves  no  smell  or  taste  whatever.  If  no  brim- 
stone is  used,  they  will  need  to  smoke  from  six  to  ten  days.  "When 
the  hams  are  smoked,  sew  them  up  in  cotton,  covering  every  part, 
and  whitewash  them ;  then  put  each  ham  in  a  large  paper  bag,  paste 
it  together,  and  hang  the  in  in  a  cool  place,  away  from  rats.  They  pre- 
serve all  summer,  if  they  are  wrapped  in  paper  and  buried  in  wood- 
ashes.  A  ham,  unless  protected,  in  fly  time  will  soon  become  filled 
with  vermin. 

• 
To  Cure  Dried  Beef. — For  one  hundred  pounds  of  beef,  allow 
ten  pounds  rock  salt,  four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  two  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Dissolve  the  ingredients  mentioned  in  clean  soft  water, 
boil  the  pickle,  remove  the  scum,  and  pour  it  on  the  beef  when  cool ; 
when  cured  through,  drain  and  smoke  very  little.  If  brimstone,  the 
size  of  a  hickory  nut,  is  used  with  the  smoke,  it  will  be  sufficiently 
smoked  in  twenty-four  hours ;  it  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way 
as  ham  in  ashes.  To  keep  it  from  becoming  hard,  pack  it  closely  in 
a  strong  box  or  keg,  and  compress  with  great  weights.  Large  quan- 
tities can  be  kept  soft  for  shipping  by  packing  it  in  strong  casks,  and 
pressing  by  steam  to  almost  a  solid  body  ;  this  has  been  practised  to 
some  extent  by  packers,  to  good  advantage. 

Corned  Beef. — For  one  hundred  pounds  of  beef,  take  five  quarts 
of  solar  salt,  five  ounces  of  pure  saltpetre,  dissolve  in  two  pails  of  soft 
16 


362         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

water,  boil  and  skim.  Pack  the  beef  closely  in  the  barrel,  and  pour 
over  the  brine  while  boiling  hot,  sink  the  beef  with  a  weight,  and 
cover  tight.  It  will  be  fit  to  boil  in  twenty-four  hours.  This  mode 
of  curing  beef  is  very  fine,  but  will  not  keep  longer  than  the  first  of 
April.  If  the  brine  does  not  cover  the  beef,  make  more,  as  after  it  is 
once  scalded  with  this  brine  it  will  take  no  more  salt.  Test  the  salt- 
petre ;  if  adulterated  with  salt,  the  beef  will  not  be  a  bright  color. 
Dried  beef  and  venison  may  be  cured  in  this  manner.  If  desired  to 
corn  beef  for  summer,  use  double  the  amount  of  salt  when  the  brine 
is  first  made ;  salt  added  after  the  brine  is  first  put  on,  will  not  add 
to  its  saltness. 

To  Salt  Pork. — Lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  barrel  a  layer  of  solar 
salt,  one  and  a  half  incli  thick  ;  pack  the  pork  edgewise  as  compact  as 
possible,  cover  it  with  a  layer  of  salt  as  thick  as  the  bottom  layer, 
then  pack  another  layer  of  pork  and  the  same  quantity  of  salt,  etc., 
until  the  whole  is  packed,  finishing  with  a  layer  of  salt.  Make  a 
brine  as  strong  as  possible  of  solar  salt,  put  a  weight  on  the  pork, 
and  pour  on  the  brine,  until  it  is  covered  several  inches.  A  hog 
weighing  two  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  is  the  best  weight  to  buy ; 
be  sure  the  hog  is  cornfed,  not  fatted  on  still-slops,  as  the  pork  to  be 
hard  must  be  fatted  on  corn.  "When  pork  is  taken  from  the  barrel, 
be  careful  that  no  part  of  the  meat  is  left  above  the  brine ;  if  this 
happens,  it  will  become  wormy.  All  bone  and  lean  meat  should  be 
removed  when  the  hog  is  cut  up.  Lean  salt  pork  is  worthless ;  use 
it  in  the  family,  or  make  sausages. 

To  Cure  Bacon. — Bacon  is  side  pork ;  it  may  be  cured  and  man- 
aged like  ham. 

To  Cure  Tongue. — For  fifty  pounds,  take  five  quarts  salt,  five 
ounces  saltpetre,  dissolved  in  a  pail  and  a  half  of  soft  water ;  boil  and 
skim,  and  pour  on  the  brine  hot ;  sink  the  tongues  and  cover  tight ; 
they  may  be  boiled  as  soon  as  the  jrine  is  cold. 


CHAPTER  II. 

THE   DAIRY. 


Care  of  a  Cow  and  her  Milk. — If  pastured,  be  sure  that  the  cow- 
boy does  not  hurry  her  to  and  from  the  pasture ;  if  she  becomes  heated, 


THE    DAIRY.  363 

her  milk  will  be  unhealthy ;  the  nearer  the  pasture,  the  more  milk 
will  she  give  with  the  same  amount  of  feed.  If  not  pastured,  she 
should  be  slopped  night  and  morning  at  regular  hours,  to  induce  her 
to  come  home  in  season ;  a  cow  that  will  not  cofne  home  regularly, 
and  cannot  be  pastured,  is  not  worth  the  trouble  of  keeping.  Milk- 
ing should  be  done  at  regular  hours  night  and  morning ;  a  slow  milker 
will  soon  dry  a  cow,  the  faster  she  is  milked,  the  better ;  cows  should 
be  stripped  until  no  milk  can  be  obtained,  or  they  will  gradually  fail 
in  milk,  let  the  feed  be  what  it  may.  Some  cows  discharge  their 
milk ;  it  is  said  that  faithfully  rubbing  the  whole  bag  while  giving  no 
milk,  and  a  month  after,  with  tallow,  will  cure  this  entirely.  Milk  is 
affected  by  the  food  of  the  cow  ;  if  she  eats  turnips  or  cabbage,  it  in- 
jures her  milk  materially.  Most  persons  use  new  cow's  milk  the 
fourth  milking,  but  it  is  well  to  test  it ;  if  it  boils  without  curdling, 
it  is  fit  for  use ;  if  not,  throw  it  out.  If  milk  becomes  stringy  or  cur- 
dles, there  is  something  the  matter  with  the  cow,  and  she  should  have 
the  advice  of  a  person  experienced  in  the  diseases  of  cattle.  Bran 
for  cows  is  much  better  if  scalded,  but  they  must  not  eat  it  hot ; 
scald  a  pailful  at  night  for  the  morning  meal,  and  in  the  morning  for 
the  evening ;  they  ought  to  be  fed  very  early  in  the  morning,  and 
about  five  at  evening ;  they  require  a  large  supply  of  water,  and  if  there 
is  none  in  the  pasture,  should  be  allowed  to  drink  all  they  will,  morn- 
ing and  evening.  Milk  should  be  strained  into  shallow  pans  as  soon  as 
the  froth  goes  down ;  the  greater  surface  the  milk  has,  the  more  cream 
will  rise.  Set  milk  in  a  cool,  dark  cellar,  free  from  impurities ;  milk 
will  absorb  and  retain  unpleasant  and  strong  o'dors.  In  hot  weather, 
it  will  remain  sweet  longer  if  scalded,  but  the  cream  is  not  as  good 
as  when  allowed  to  rise  naturally. 

To  Make  Btttteb, — Skim  the  milk  before  it  becomes  very  sour, 
merely  turned,  or  what  is  called  blue ;  pass  a  silver  spoon  handle 
around  the  edge  of  the  pan,  and  lift  the  cream  with  a  perforated 
skimmer,  and  put  it  immediately  into  the  cream  crock ;  the  cream 
should  not  be  in  summer  over  two  days  gathering,  and  if  there  were 
sufficient  cream  to  churn  daily,  it  would  be  better  still ;  stir  the  cream 
two  or  three  times  each  day  briskly  until  it  is  ready  to  churn,  when 
usually  it  will  come  quickly.  Churning  should  be  done,  during  warm 
weather,  early  in  the  morning  in  a  cool  place ;  the  dasher  ought  to 
be  moved  regularly,  not  sometimes  fast  and  then  slow,  but  with  a 
regular  motion,  until  the  butter  separates  from  the  milk ;  the  dasher 
may  then  be  moved  more  gently,  turning  round  the  handle  at  each 


364         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

plunge  of  the  dasher ;  when  the  hutter  is  gathered,  wet  the  bowl  and 
ladle  in  ice  water,  pour  out  the  water  and  take  up  the  butter,  drain  off 
as  much  of  the  buttermilk  as  possible,  pressing  the  butter  a  moment 
gently  with  the  ladle.  Make  indentations  in  the  butter  with  the 
ladle,  fill  them  with  nice  solar  salt,  and  set  the  bowl  in  a  cool  place, 
(or  if  wanted  soon,  in  ice  water ;)  at  evening,  when  the  butter  is  hard, 
work  it  gently  without  breaking  the  grain,  and  squeeze  out  all  the 
milk  that  can  be  removed  without  too  much  pressure ;  salt  as  before, 
and  let  it  stand  until  morning ;  then  finish  it,  making  it  in  rolls  or 
cakes  with  as  little  pressure  as  possible.  If  butter  is  worked  with  a 
heavy  hand,  it  becomes  smooth  like  a  salve.  If  to  be  used  imme- 
diately, it  is  now  finished,  but  if  to  be  put  down  for  winter,  add,  before 
the  last  working,  to  every  two  pounds  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  pure 
loaf-sugar  and  a  saltspoon  of  pulverized  saltpetre ;  work  it  gently 
through  the  butter  with  the  salt,  cool  it  on  ice,  put  it  in  a  press  in  a 
cool  cellar,  surrounded  with  a  thin  cloth,  and  press  it  gently  until  all 
the  milk  is  entirely  discharged,  then  pack  it  in  small  jars  for  the 
winter.  If  the  jar  is  not  full  with  one  churning,  (which  is  a  much 
better  plan  than  to  fill  it  with  several  successive  days'  churnings,) 
scatter  salt  between  each  new  layer,  and  finish  by  a  layer  of  salt  on 
the  top  ;  lastly,  paste  strong  paper  over  the  mouth  of  the  jar  with  the 
beaten  white  of  egg,  varnish  it  with  the  same,  add  another  paper  be- 
fore it  is  dry,  cover  it  with  the  egg,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place  until 
needed  for  winter  use,  when  it  will  turn  out  as  sweet  as  fresh-made 
butter.  May  and  June  are  the  best  months  to  lay  down  butter  for 
winter  use  ;  if  the  grass  starts  early  in  April,  May  is  much  to  be  pre- 
ferred. 

Cheese-making. — The  utensils  needed  for  cheese-making  are  a 
Cheese  tub,  in  which  the  milk  is  mixed  with  the  rennet  water  to  form 
the  curd ;  Cheese  knife,  sometimes  formed  of  wood,  for  cutting  or  break- 
ing the  curd ;  Cheese  ladder,  a  wooden  frame  used  to  rest  the  vat  upon, 
while  the  whey  is  draining  from  the  curd ;  Vat,  or  hoop  turned  from 
solid  wood,  usually  elm,  with  a  loose  bottom,  which,  with  the  sides, 
is  perforated  with  holes  to  let  off  the  whey,  while  the  cheese  is  in  the 
press  ;  Cheese  press,  Cheese  boards,  and  Cheese-  cloth,  which  is  made  of 
strong  linen,  woven  very  open.  Cheese  is  made  from  May  until  Oc- 
tober, if  the  season  is  favorable,  although  October  is  often  too  cold 
for  the  operation  to  be  well  performed.  The  curd  is  produced  with 
rennet  water  made  by  soaking  the  rennet  in  clear  water  until  of  the 
proper  strength.    It  requires  experience  to  know  how  much  rennet 


THE    DAIRY.  365 

is  needed  for  a  certain  amount  of  milk ;  if  too  little  is  used,  the  curd 
will  not  form ;  if  too  much,  the  cheese  will  heave,  and  have  a  strong, 
rank  taste.  A  little  salt  assists  the  formation  of  the  curd.  After  the 
rennet  is  put  into  the  milk,  mix  it  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
cover  the  tub  tightly  with  a  wooden  cover,  and  spread  over  it  a  thick 
blanket,  to  prevent  the  passing  off  of  the  heat  during  the  coagulation 
of  the  milk.  The  milk  ought  not  to  lose  over  from  five  to  seven  de- 
grees of  its  natural  heat,  while  the  curd  is  forming.  The  temperature 
of  the  milk  should  be  from  85°  to  90°,  which  is  about  the  natural  heat 
of  milk  when  drawn  from  the  cows.  If  the  cows  have  been  raciDg, 
and  the  milk  heated  above  the  usual  animal  heat,  it  should  be  cooled 
as  soon  as  possible  to  the  desired  heat.  If  milk  is  too  warm  when 
the  rennet  is  added,  the  cheese  will  heave,  become  spongy,  hard,  and 
possess  but  little  flavor ;  if  not  warm  enough,  the  curd  will  be  tender, 
never  forming  a  firm  cheese,  and  will  bulge  out  at  tBe  sides.  If  the 
cheese  is  to  be  made  from  two  milkings,  set  the  milk  in  shallow  pans 
in  a  cool  place  ;  when  used,  remove  all  the  cream,  bring  the  skimmed 
milk  to  little  more  than  the  desired  heat,  mix  it  with  the  new  milk, 
and  stir  in  the  cream.  Test  the  milk ;  if  too  warm,  cool  it ;  if  too 
cool,  add  very  little  hot  milk  until  it  has  the  desired  heat.  If  there 
is  the  right  proportion  of  rennet,  and  the  milk  is  the  proper  temper- 
ature, the  curd  will  set  in  one,  or  at  most  two  hours ;  when  the  curd 
is  firm,  cut  it  gently  and  slowly  across  the  curd,  reaching  the  knife 
to  the  bottom,  making  the  incisions  about  an  inch  apart,  after 
which  cut  across  in  the  opposite  direction  and  around  the  tub,  to 
allow  the  whey  to  rise  above  the  curd,  which  will  sink  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  tub.  Remove  the  whey  as  it  rises,  without  disturbing  the 
curd  ;  after  a  little  time,  slowly  cut  the  curd  into  finer,  until  reduced 
to  small  pieces.  The  tub  is  then  again  covered,  and  allowed  to  stand 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes ;  it  is  then  tilted,  and  the  curd  gathered 
to  the  upper  side.  A  semicircle  board,  fitting  loosely  one  half  of  the 
tub's  bottom,  is  now  introduced  into  the  tub  ;  the  board,  with  from 
forty  to  sixty  pounds  weight,  according  to  the  size  of  the  cheese,  is 
placed  over  the  curd,  until  the  whey  has  passed  off.  The  curd  is 
now  cut  into  still  finer  pieces,  and  pressed  by  the  hand  and  the  weight 
as  long  as  any  whey  is  discharged.  When  the  whey  assumes  a  slightly 
greenish  color,  it  is  a  proof  that  the  curd  was  properly  formed,  but 
if  white,  it  shows  that  the  coagulation  was  imperfectly  produced,  and 
it  may  well  be  understood  that  the  cheese  will  not  be  prime.  The 
cheese  is  now  ready  to  be  transferred  to  the  vat.  The  curd  is  now 
divided  into  convenient  quantities,  broken  veiy  fine,  and  salted ;  after 


366  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

the  salt  is  well  incorporated  with  the  curd,  it  is  ready  to  transfer  to 
the  vat ;  when  all  is  prepared,  the  cheese-cloth  is  placed  over  the  vat, 
and  the  curd  is  placed  in  it.  The  curd  should  be  heaped  in  the  centre 
of  the  vat,  the  corners  of  the  cloth  turned  over  the  cheese,  and 
pressed  gently  with  the  hand  until  it  adheres  sufficiently  to  allow  a 
board  to  be  put  over  it  with  a  part  of  the  cheese-cloth  separating  it 
from  the  curd.  The  whole  is  then  put  into  the  press,  with  the  press- 
ure of  from  forty  to  sixty  pounds,  according  to  the  size  of  the  cheese, 
and  remains  in  the  press  from  two  to  three  hours.  The  cheese  is  then 
taken  from  the  vat,  and  put  for  one  hour  into  hot  whey,  for  the 
purpose  of  hardening  the  skin,  after  which  it  is  wiped  dry,  and  again 
put  into  the  vat.  The  upper  part  of  the  cheese  being  still  above  the 
vat,  it  is  bound  round  with  a  strong  binding,  called  a  cheese-fillet;  or  a 
hoop  is  put  around  it,  over  the  cloth  which  covers  the  cheese,  to  pre- 
serve its  shape,  and  is  again  put  into  the  press,  where  it  remains  from 
twelve  to  fourteen  hours  ;  after  half  an  hour  the  cheese,  is  turned  in 
the  vat,  bottom  side  up,  and  another  cheese-cloth  put  in  the  vat ;  it 
should  press  forty-eight  hours,  being  turned  several  times  during  the 
time.  The  cheese  being  completed  is  placed  on  a  cheese-board,  and 
carried  to  the  cheese-room,  which  should  be  dry,  airy,  and  well  ven- 
tilated, of  moderate  and  even  temperature,  not  exposed  to  currents 
of  air  or  sunbeams,  as  the  wind  and  sun  dries  the  cheeses  too  fast  to 
allow  them  to  ripen  well.  Cheeses  are  turned  daily  and  rubbed  with 
butter  for  some  time,  and  three  times  every  week  until  perfectly  cured 
or  ripened.  Kich  cheeses  need  no  coloring  matter ;  it  is  the  poor  ones 
that  require  this,  to  give  them  a  fair  appearance  in  market.  Sage 
cheese  is  made  by  incorporating  the  juice  of  green  sage  with  the 
curd,  before  it  is  put  into  the  vat.  To  preserve  cheeses  from  flies, 
after  being  cut,  a  cheese-box  is  almost  indispensable;  one  with  a 
wire  cover  is  to  be  preferred. 


PART  L 


CHAPTER   I. 

SPEING-  WOEK. 

March. — The  nits  or  eggs  of  all  vermin  which  have  lain  dormant 
through  the  cold  months,  will  now  begin  to  hatch,  and  unless  pre- 
ventives are  promptly  applied,  the  increase  of  "bedbugs  and  cock- 
roaches will  be  without  number.  Search  for  the  bugs,  kill  all  that  can 
be  found,  and  oil  all  bedsteads  with  corrosive  sublimate,  mixed  with 
turpentine  {see  Bedbugs)  ;  lift  boards  and  barrels  in  the  cellar ;  scald 
all  the  bugs  under  them  with  boiling  water ;  spread  bread  and  butter 
with  arsenic,  to  lay  in  their  haunts ;  wet  crevices  with  the  prepara- 
tion of  mercury,  mentioned  above,  and  prepare  the  same  in  whiskey 
for  the  edges  of  shelves  where  food  is  stored ;  but  be  careful  that 
none  is  dropped  on  the  shelves  to  come  in  contact  with  food,  as  it  i3 
a  deadly  poison. 

Apeil. — By  the  first  of  April,  the  cellar  should  be  carefully  looked 
over,  and  all  impurities  removed ;  if  the  soap-grease  has  not  been 
thrown  into  lye  (as  it  accumulated  during  the  winter),  it  should  now 
be  sent  to  the  factory,  or  be  mixed  with  strong  lye,  preparatory  to 
soap-making.  All  refuse  vegetables  ought  to  be  thrown  out ;  the 
potatoes  selected ;  the  small  ones  given  to  the  cow,  if  there  is  one, 
and  the  best  reserved  for  spring  use.  The  meat  barrels  will  now  need 
looking  after ;  if  there  is  much  corned  beef  on  hand,  unless  very  salt, 
it  should  be  used  as  fast  as  possible.  See  that  the  pork  is  well  covered 
with  brine,  and  the  sides  of  the  barrel  free  from  vermin ;  have  the 
barrels  cleansed  on  the  outside  from  all  soil ;  examine  the  lard ;  if  it 
appears  soft,  as  though  mixed  with  water,  heat  it  boiling  hot ;  strain 


S68  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

it  into  jars,  and  paste  a  paper  over  each  while  hot.  If  the  hams  have 
not  been  protected  before,  bag  and  bury  them  in  a  barrel  of  strong, 
hard-wood  ashes,  and  do  the  same  with  dried  beef;  examine  the 
cheese ;  if  inclined  to  mould,  or  infested  with  vermin,  make  it  into  pot 
or  brandy  cheese.  To  do  this  properly,  proceed  as  follows:  first 
remove  all  mould  or  vermin  ;  cut  or  crumble  the  cheese  fine ;  for  pot 
cheese,  pound  it  hard,  with  a  little  sweet  butter  between  each  layer, 
thoroughly  incorporating  the  butter  with  the  cheese.  Brandy  cheese 
is  prepared  in  the  same  manner ;  using  the  best  brandy  in  the  place 
of  butter ;  when  finished,  cover  the  cheese  with  paper  wet  in  brandy, 
and  paste  strong,  brown  paper  over  the  mouth  of  the  jar.  It  will  be 
fit  to  use  in  a  month.  Examine  the  pickles  and  sweetmeats ;  if  pickles 
are  moulding,  renew  the  vinegar  (see  Pickles)  ;  if  preserves  are  fer- 
menting, boil  them  up  for  tarts ;  if  entirely  spoiled,  put  the  syrup  in 
the  vinegar-barrel ;  wash  and  scald  the  jars  and  bottles  that  have  been 
emptied  during  the  winter ;  turn  them  up  to  drain ;  when  dry,  send 
them  to  the  store-room  and  throw  the  corks  away ;  it  is  unsafe  to  use 
them  twice  for  sweetmeats ;  if  jars  or  bottles  with  ground  stoppers 
are  used,  tie  each  stopper  to  the  jar  it  is  fitted  for,  before  washing;  if 
misplaced,  it  will  be  almost  impossible  to  remove  them  when  the  fruit 
is  needed,  and  the  jars  will  very  likely  be  broken  in  the  effort.  If 
there  is  butter  on  hand,  in  danger  of  becoming  rancid,  melt  it  over 
water  slowly ;  when  melted,  let  it  boil  up  once  with  slices  of  raw 
potatoes  cut  very  thin,  boiled  in  it ;  strain  it  in  very  small  jars  while 
boiling  hot,  stirring  the  salt  through  the  butter  while  it  is  straining ; 
cover  each  jar,  while  hot,  with  paper,  pasted  firmly  to  the  edge  of  the 
jar,  and  afterwards  varnish  the  paper  with  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs; 
use  the  butter  for  sauces,  gravies,  etc.  If  butter  is  well  prepared  in 
autumn,  it  will  remain  sweet  until  the  next  May.  After  all  impurities 
are  removed  from  the  cellar,  sweep  down  the  walls,  destroy  all  vermin, 
and  whitewash  thoroughly ;  cleanse  the  windows,  shelves,  etc. ;  and  if 
the  floor  is  damp,  scatter  lime  over  it ;  arrange  the  contents  of  the 
cellar  most  convenient  to  yourselves ;  place  all  barrels  on  a  low  stag- 
ing, to  prevent  their  moulding ;  scatter  lime  under  each ;  when  the 
cellar  will  be  ready  for  the  summer,  and  a  good  beginning  made  toward 
house-cleaning.  !Now  proceed  to  the  attic ;  look  over  the  patches, 
and  send  off  all  useless  rags ;  examine  the  summer  clothing ;  distrib- 
ute to  the  poor  every  article  which  cannot  be  used  in  the  family ; 
especially  woollen  goods,  which  form  good  hiding-places  for  moths. 
Many  persons  fill  their  houses  with  moths,  by  allowing  useless  woollen 
garments  to  accumulate,  year  after  year,  in  the  garret.     Air  well  all 


SPRING    WORK.  369 

furs  and  woollen  goods  laid  aside  for  the  next  season,  and  pack  them 
away  (see  chapter  on  Insects)  ;  destroy  all  spider-webs,  and  thoroughly 
cleanse  the  garret ;  bring  down  all  the  spring  clothing ;    if  not    re- 
paired in  the  fall,  now  is  the  time  to  do  it :  never  allow  your  work  to 
drive  you,  but  keep  it  ahead  of  your  necessities.     The  storeroom  is 
next  in  order.     Take  out  all  movable  articles  ;  if  not  done  in  March, 
touch  with  a  feather,  dipped  in  a  preparation  of  corrosive  sublimate 
and  whiskey,  all  the  cracks  in  the  wall,  floor,  back  of  the  shelves, 
and  around  the  casing ;  let  it  remain  several  hours  before  cleaning,  if 
convenient  overnight ;  this,  if  carefully  done  every  spring,  will  pre- 
serve the  storeroom  from  cockroaches  and  other  vermin,  which  are 
apt  to  infest  such  places.     "When  the  poison  has  lain  sufficiently  long, 
cleanse  the   shelves,  whitewash  the  wall,  and  wipe  off  the  floor. 
While  the  room  is  drying,  look  over  the  contents  of  the  room ;  cleanse 
the  boxes  containing  spices,  etc-. ;  examine,  and  scald  the  dried  fruit 
(if  it  was  not  put  into  paper  bags  after  being  scalded  in  the  fall) ;   to 
do  this  without  injury  to  the  fruit,  great  care  must  be  taken,  or  it  will 
not  stew  soft.     The  safest  method  to  accomplish  this  object,  is  to 
spread  it  thin  in  a  pan,  and  set  the  vessel  containing  it,  over  boiling 
water  until  heated  through.     "When  the  room  is  perfectly  dry,  and 
well  aired,  return  the  different  articles  to  their  places  ;  turn  the  cans  and 
jars  of  fruit  label-side  out,  so  that  any  article  needed,  can  be  reached 
without  disarranging  others,  and  another  part  of  the  house  is  ready 
for  the  summer.     Examine  china  closets  ;  if  crockery  is  tea-stained,  boil 
it  up  in  white  lye ;  mend  dishes  that  have  been  broken,  or  replace 
them  by  new  ware,  matching  the  old  as  nearly  as  possible  ;  if  plated 
ware  is  worn,  it  can  be  replated  at  but  little  cost ;  if  knives  have 
rusted,  send  them  to  the  emery-mill,  to  be  polished ;  send  any  articles 
of  furniture  that  are  broken  to  the  shop  for  repairs ;  if  windows  are 
cracked  or  broken,  send  for  the  glazier ;  if  locks  are  out  of  order,  for 
the  locksmith,  etc. ;  look  over  drawers  and  closets ;  pack  away  all 
furs  and  woollen  goods  (see  Moths),  fill  the  spaces  with  spring  cloth- 
ing, nicely  repaired,  and  ready  for  use ;  engage  whitewashers,  paint- 
ers, and  extra  help,  before  the  rush  for  house-cleaners   comes  on. 
Have  the  yards  raked,  and  the  last  of  the  month,  the  tender  shrubs 
uncovered,  etc.,  and  you  are  ready  to  commence  the  hard  part  of 
general  house-cleaning. 

Mat. — As  soon  as  the  weather  settles,  take  down  most  of  the 
stoves ;  oil  or  varnish  them,  and  place  them  in  the  attic,  or  some  other 
dry  place.    Fires  in  grates  will  sometimes  be  needed  morning  and 
16* 


370  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

evening,  or  in  the  nursery  stove,  until  the  first  of  June.  "When 
cleaning  is  fairly  commenced,  it  is  best  to  begin  in  the  upper  story ; 
examine  beds ;  if  the  ticks  are  soiled,  they  should  be  cleansed,  and 
laid  in  the  sun.  Cover  all  furniture,  pictures,  and  books,  before  taking 
up  carpets ;  throw  the  carpets  from  the  windows ;  have  them  shaken 
until  free  from  dust,  and  laid  where  the  sun  will  heat  them ;  turn 
them  once,  that  both  sides  may  be  heated,  to  destroy  moths ;  sweep 
the  floors,  dust  the  wall-paper,  wood-work,  windows,  and  furniture, 
wipe  the  dust  from  the  floor,  and  whitewash  the  walls ;  if  the  paint 
contains  or  is  covered  with  varnish,  rub  no  soap  on  the  cleaning  cloth, 
and  as  little  as  possible  if  not  varnished ;  rub  the  paint  with  a  soft 
cloth  wrung  from  warm  suds,  or  very  weak  white  lye  ;  rinse  in  clear 
water  as  soon  as  cleansed,  washing  but  a  small  space  before  rinsing, 
and  wipe  dry  without  leaving  the  marks  of  the  cloth ;  be  careful  that 
the  corners  and  mouldings  are  clean,  and  wiped  quite  dry.  Wash  th<7 
floor  around  the  sides  of  the  room  perfectly  clean  before  washing  the 
base  boards ;  rub  the  blinds  with  a  soft  cloth,  wrung  dry  from  clear 
water,  until  free  from  dust ;  lastly,  wash  the  windows  in  hot  suds, 
cleansing  the  corners,  and  rinse  thoroughly  ;  wipe  dry  and  rub  them 
with  paper  until  bright.  When  the  rooms  are  perfectly  dry,  put 
down  the  carpets ;  if  troubled  with  moths,  lay  camphor  gum,  red 
cedar  shavings,  or  some  other  preventives  under  the  carpet;  espe- 
cially where  it  will  be  covered  by  furniture,  and  in  the  corners ;  bring 
in  the  beds,  and  arrange  the  rooms  before  tearing  up  below.  Proceed 
in  the  same  manner  with  the  remaining  stories,  until  the  whole  is 
finished,  being  particular  to  take  down  curtains ;  cover  books,  pic- 
tures, furniture,  etc.,  before  removing  the  carpets ;  as  soon  as  the 
blankets  are  not  needed  on  the  beds,  wash  them  (see  Washing  Blank- 
ets), and  lay  them  away  where  they  will  be  safe  from  moths ;  wash 
other  bedding  requiring  it,  do  up  the  curtains  (see  Washing  Cuetains), 
put  them  in  place,  and  house-cleaning,  the  dread  of  the  family,  old 
and  young,  will  be  through  with  for  the  next  half-year;  when, 
with  the  exception  of  a  few  things,  which  will  be  reversed,  the 
same  routine  of  work  will  be  again  necessary  for  the  comfort  of  the 
family. 


PART  XL 


SICK  ROOM,  REMEDIES,  INFANTS,  COOKERY  FOR  THE  SICK. 


CHAPTER  I. 

SICK  EOOM. 

Select,  if  possible,  a  large,  airy  room,  with  a  cheerful  prospect 
from  the  window.  Let  the  furniture  of  the  room  be  neat  and  com- 
fortable, but  no  more  of  it  than  is  necessary.  It  fatigues  and 
disturbs  an  invalid  to  see  furniture  dusted  and  the  room  arranged ; 
therefore,  every  superfluity  should  be  dispensed  with.  The  curtains 
of  the  windows  should  be  of  plain,  dark-colored  material ;  it  is  im- 
possible for  an  invalid  to  avoid  tracing  the  figures  in  the  drapery  of 
the  room,  and  none  but  those  who  have  experienced  it  know  how 
fatigued  a  nervous  person  will  become  by  this  effort  of  the  eye  and 
mind.  For  the  same  reason  the  paper  or  wall  should  be  plain,  free 
from  cracks  and  defects.  If  the  sick  room  is  over'  the  family  rooms,  it 
will  be  noisy ;  therefore  remove  it  as  far  as  possible  from  that  part  of 
the  house.  There  should  be  a  closet  for  medicines ;  nothing  gives  a 
more  forlorn  appearance  to  a  sick  room,  or  makes  more  confusion, 
than  a  great  array  of  bottles  to  be  lifted  and  dusted  two  or  three 
times  each  day ;  and  then,  too,  the  patient  is  often  worried  by  the 
breaking  and  spilling  of  contents  on  the  table  and  floor.  None  but 
the  medicines  in  constant  use  should  be  in  the  room,  and  if  a  nurse  is 
in  attendance,  these  ought  to  be  out  of  the  patient's  sight.  A  room, 
communicating  with  the  sick  room,  to  which  all  offensive  clothing, 
etc.,  can  be  removed,  is  highly  important.    In  this  room  the  close 


372  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

stool,  slop-pails,  and  other  conveniences,  should  be  kept,  that  the 
nurse  need  not  be  obliged  often  to  call  a  servant,  or  leave  her  patient. 
If  the  weather  is  warm,  matting  is  much  better  than  carpeting  on  the 
floor.  A  thermometer  should  hang  in  the  room,  by  which  to  regu- 
late the  temperature.  The  room  should  be  kept  neat  and  tidy,  and 
the  bed  often  aired.  The  sheets  used  by  day  should  be  spread  at 
evening  to  air  for  the  next  day  ;  and  those  used  at  night  be  aired  for 
the  next  night.  The  practice  of  putting  on  sheets  and  using  them 
night  and  day  for  two  or  three  successive  days  and  nights,  is  very 
deleterious  to  the  sick.  A  mattress,  on  elliptic  springs,  with  an 
under  bed  of  husks,  is  probably  the  most  comfortable  bed  for  an  in- 
valid. There  are  many  easy  chairs,  of  .different  make,  more  or  less 
comfortable.  The  reclining  chair  will  be  found  a  great  luxury  to  a 
consumptive  patient,  or  one  suffering  with  diseased  spine.  For  a 
person  with  spinal  abscess,  a  bedstead  manufactured  by  the  "  Elliptic 
Spring  Bed  Company,"  in  New  York,  is  not  only  a  comfort,  but  al- 
most indispensable  ;  it  is  arranged  with  hinges  and  springs,  by  which 
the  mattress  and  patient  are  lifted  together  to  any  desired  height,  al- 
lowing the  invalid  to  sit  or  recline  at  pleasure,  much  after  the  plan  oi 
the  reclining  chair.  Bedsteads  can  be  made  after  the  same  idea 
without  infringing  on  the  patent.  One  seen  by  the  author  was  made 
of  black  walnut,  three  feet  wide,  with  a  joint,  and  notches  in  the 
frame,  to  which  were  fitted  pieces  of  hickory  about  three  inches  wide, 
and  long  enough  to  raise  the  patient  to  a  sitting  posture;  these 
pieces,  when  not  in  use,  folded  under  the  slats  or  sacking  of  the  bed, 
and  rested  on  the  frame,  entirely  out  of  sight ;  such  a  bedstead  could 
be  made  for  five  or  six  dollars,  and  would  be  found  extremely  con- 
venient to  all  invalids.  Never  crowd  a  sick  room  with  company,  or 
allow  either  loud  talking  or  whispering ;  of  the  two,  loud  talking  is 
to  be  preferred  ;  but  all  conversation  is  fetter  carried  on  in  an  ordi- 
nary tone  of  voice.  If  whispering  is  allowed  while  the  patient  sleeps, 
it  will  waken  much  sooner  than  talking.  If  the  talking  is  in  an 
undertone,  sad  and  mournful,  it  gives  the  idea  to  the  patient  that  his 
case  is  worse  than  it  really  is.  If  the  patient  is  weak,  very  little,  if 
any,  company  should  be  allowed  during  the  day,  and  none  during  the 
latter  part  of  the  afternoon,  when  the  patient  needs  rest.  All  visits 
to  the  sick  should  be  made  during  the  forenoon,  while  the  invalid  is 
fresh.  Do  not  put  off  until  late  in  the  evening  the  preparations  for 
the  night.  If  the  patient  is  to  take  a  sponge  bath,  let  it  be  com- 
menced early,  so  that  the  operation  need  not  be  hurried ;  a  hasty 
bath  accomplishes  but  a  small  part  of  the  object  for  which  it  is  used ; 


SICK    ROOM.  373 

it  is  not  only  to  invigorate,  or  cleanse  the  skin,  that  this  important 
part  of  the  nurse's  duty  is  performed,  but  to  allay  extreme  nervous- 
ness, and  induce  sleep  ;  a  gentle  nurse  often  soothes  her  patient  into 
a  quiet  sleep  while  taking  the  spirit  bath,  when  without  it  she  would 
toss  all  night  with  nervous  restlessness.  Be  careful  to  follow  to  the 
letter  the  directions  of  the  attending  physician ;  if  he  does  not  suit, 
dismiss  him,  and  engage  another;  but  while  he  is  employed,  he 
should  be  implicitly  obeyed.  In  the  preparations  of  medicines,  be 
particular  to  disguise  powders  and  prepare  liquids  in  such  a  manner 
as  to  make  them  as  little  disgusting  as  possible.  There  is  more  art  in 
covering  powders  than  is  usually  supposed ;  any  medicine  is  less 
nauseous  taken  in  fluid  than  in  a  half-covered  powder.  Make  your- 
self acquainted  with  the  good  and  bad  effects  of  the  medicines  which 
are  being  taken  by  the  patient,  that  you  may  use  discretion  in  the  admin- 
istration of  them.  Wear  in  the  sick  room  light  easy  slippers,  so  that 
in  walking,  the  floor  will  neither  be  jarred  by  heavy  uncertain  steps, 
nor  the  patient  annoyed  by  creaking ;  heels  on  leather  shoes  are  an- 
noying, particularly  so  if  high  and  narrow.  Avoid  taking  hold  of  the 
bedposts ;  patients  who  are  suffering  with  spinal  trouble  often  suffer 
acutely  from  a  person  merely  supporting  themselves  by  holding  the 
posts  with  the  hand,  or  leaning  over  the  footboard,  and  to  any  one 
suffering  with  extreme  debility  it  is  very  fatiguing.  Eocking  back 
and  forth  in  a  rocker  is  often  very  distressing  to  an  invalid,  particu- 
larly one  suffering  with  a  nervous  affection  of  the  head  and  brain ; 
they  cannot  avoid  watching  the  motion  of  the  chair,  without  shutting 
their  eyes,  and  often  become  almost  crazed  before  allowing  themselves 
to  speak  of  it.  Motions  of  the  body,  trotting  the  foot,  scraping  the 
throat,  blowing  the  nose,  picking  the  teeth,  and  coughing,  should  all  be 
avoided  as  much  as  possible.  The  more  quiet  the  nurse  the  better. 
Often  sewing,  knitting,  or  any  other  employment  which  would  assist 
the  nurse  in  passing  the  time,  proves  a  source  of  real  suffering  to  her 
patient.  Beading  in  a  quiet  voice,  combing  the  hair,  gently  rubbing 
the  palms  of  the  hand,  will  often  induce  sleep,  when  anodynes  fail. 
Another  important  matter  not  to  be  lost  sight  of  in  a  nurse  is  a 
cheerful  obliging  temper.  Be  always  ready  to  humor  a  sick  person  in 
every  thing  that  will  do  them  no  harm ;  never  think  of  your  own 
trouble,  when  you  can,  in  the  smallest  particular,  add  to  the  comfort 
of  the  sick ;  what  to  you  is  so  small  a  trifle  as  to  be  hardly  worth 
mentioning,  seems  to  an  invalid  a  weighty  matter.  It  is  not  well  to 
cross  a  sick  person,  if  it  can  be  avoided.  A  person  with  a  gloomy  dis- 
position is  unfit  to.  take  charge  of  the  sick.    A  nurse  soured  by 


374         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

trouble,  carrying  on  her  face  the  sorrows  of  a  life-time,  is  wholly 
unfit  for  her  office,  and  should  be  banished  at  once ;  such  a  disposi- 
tion will  affect  a  nervous  person  most  unfavorably.  Sympathy  is  a 
quality  to  be  appreciated  in  a  nurse  ;  at  the  same  time  she  should  use 
her  judgment  in  expressing  it.  If  the  patient  is  inclined  to  make  the 
most  of  the  illness,  the  nurse  should  endeavor  to  present  them  in  a 
more  favorable  light.  If  her  nervous  restlessness  shows  itself  in  too 
much  talking,  the  nurse  should  be  quiet,  avoiding  subjects  of  conver- 
sation. If  inclined  to  despondency,  she  may  tell  cheerful  anec- 
dotes ;  or  if  the  patient  is  sufficiently  strong,  introduce  subjects  of  con- 
versation which  will  lead  the  invalid  to  forget  self  and  personal  suffer- 
ings. If  the  patient  is  confined  to  the  bed,  turn  and  shake  up  the 
pillows  as  often  as  they  become  heated ;  bathe  the  face  and  hands 
with  a  damp  towel  frequently ;  smooth  the  hair ;  keep  the  bed- 
clothes in  order,  and  in  numberless  trifles  make  the  sufferer  com- 
fortable. It  is  only  those  who  have  lain  on  beds  of  suffering  month 
after  month  that  will  understand  the  full  value  of  these  minute  direc- 
tions to  the  nurse ;  but  all  who  have  thus  suffered  know  that  it  is  not 
in  great  matters  that  the  sick  chamber  can  be  made  comfortable. 
The  little  nothings,  hardly  worth  a  name,  hinted  at  in  this  chapter,  do 
not  embrace  all  the  means  of  comfort  which  a  judicious  nurse  can 
employ  to  lighten  the  invalids  burden.  To  purify  the  air  of  a  sick 
room,  burn  coffee  on  a  hot  shovel ;  or  if  the  patient  cannot  endure  the 
smoke,  scatter  a  little  sulphuric  ether  over  the  carpet ;  or  burn  vine- 
gar on  a  hot  shovel.  In  preparations  of  food  for  the  sick,  select  such 
as  suit  the  case,  and  vary  the  selection  "of  dishes  as  much  as  possible. 
{See  Cookeby  foe  the  Sick.) 


CHAPTER    II. 

EEMEDLES. 

Buen  Salve. — Grate  finely  Peruvian  Nut  Gall,  and  mix  it  with 
cold  lard,  until  it  forms  a  paste ;  this  is  an  excellent  salve  for  burns 
after  the  fire  is  out. 

Buen  Liniment. — Take  strong  clear  lime-water,  and  mix  with  it 
as  much  linseed  oil  as  it  will  cut ;  apply,  as  soon  as  possible,  after  the 
accident.    It  is  the  best  cure  for  burns  that  can  be  had,  and  no  house- 


REMEDIES.  375 

keeper  should  be  without  a  bottle  in  the  house,  ready  prepared. 
Shake  the  bottle  before  applying,  wrap  the  burn  in  cotton  wadding, 
saturated  with  it,  wet  it  as  often  as  it  appears  dry,  without  removing 
the  cotton  from  the  burn  for  nine  days,  when  the  new  skin  will 
probably  be  found  ready  formed. 

Quick  Kemedt  for  Burns. — If  there  is  none  of  the  liniment  in 
the  house,  cover  the  scald  or  burn  with  flour  and  cotton  immediately, 
and  leave  it  on  until  it  heals.  The  liniment  can  be  applied  over  the 
flour,  by  wetting  the  cotton  with  it,  without  exposing  the  scald  to 
the  air. 

Cuts. — Press  a  cut  together,  and  bind  it  firmly  without  cording ; 
if  it  bleeds,  use  ashes,  salt,  or  what  is  better,  spiders'  webs. 

To  Cleanse  Sores. — Prepare  a  solution  of  nitrate  of  silver,  and 
wash  the  sore  until  the  foul  matter  is  destroyed. 

Putrid  Sores. — Work  together  from  one  to  two  parts  of  coal  tar 
with  one  hundred  parts  of  commercial  plaster  of  paris,  very  finely 
powdered.  When  well  incorporated,  it  forms  a  grayish  plaster.  To 
apply  it,  make  it  into  a  paste  with  linseed  or  olive  oil ;  it  removes  all 
odor,  and  produces  no  pain. 

Chapped  Hands. — If  persons  would  always  dry  their  hands  by 
friction,  rubbing  them  together  until  a  little  of  the  oil  of  the  skin 
moistens  them,  they  would  never  chap.  Bran  water,  mutton  tallow, 
camphor,  ice,  white  wax,  and  sweet  oil,  simmered  together,  are  each 
useful.  If  salve  or  oil  is  used,  apply  it  at  night,  and  wear  soft  leather 
gloves.  Eubber  gloves  are  very  unhealthy,  and  although  they  soften 
the  hand,  should  never  be  used ;  they  cause  the  hand  to  perspire  too 
freely,  for  health.  Boil  and  skim  honey,  keep  it  free  from  dust  on 
the  washstand,  and  rub  a  drop  on  the  hands  after  washing. 

Wahler's  Frost  Salve. — 24  ounces  mutton  tallow ;  24  do.  hog's 
lard ;  4  do.  peroxide  of  iron  (red  iron  rust)  ;  4  do.  Venice  turpentine ; 
2  do.  oil  of  Bergamot ;  2  do.  of  Armenian  bole,  rubbed  to  a  paste  with 
olive  oil.  Heat  together  the  tallow,  lard,  and  iron  rust  in  an  iron 
vessel,  stirring  constantly  with  an  iron  spoon,  until  the  mass  assumes 
a  perfectly  black  color.  Add  gradually  the  other  ingredients,  stirring 
until  perfectly  mixed.    Apply  on  linen  daily. 

Camphor  Ice  for  Chapped  Hands. — 3  drachms  gum  camphor; 


376  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

3  do.  white  wax ;  3  do.  spermacetti ;.  2  ounces  of  olive  oil.  Melt 
slowly  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  stir  together ;  continue  to  stir  briskly, 
until  entirely  cold.  It  will  form  a  white  salve ;  anoint  at  night,  and 
put  on  gloves. 

CniLBLAixs. — Soak  in  a  pail  of  water  in  which  turnips  have  been 
boiled.  Mash  the  turnips,  leave  them  in  the  water,  and  set  the  feet 
into  them.  A  poultice  of  mashed  turnips  is  also  useful.  The  writer 
has  seen  bad  cases  of  chilblains  entirely  removed,  by  merely  soaking 
the  feet  several  times. 

Receipt  for  Chilblains. — One  part  of  muriatic  acid,  six  parts  of 
water ;  bathe  the  parts  affected,  nightly. 

Cure  for  Dysentery. — Procure  a  lump  of  mutton  suet  fresh  from 
the  sheep,  as  large  as  a  coffee-cup,  and  a  lump  of  loaf-sugar  one-third 
as  large ;  put  the  suet  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  lay  the  sugar  on  it ; 
set  it  before  the  fire,  where  the  heat  will  gradually  melt  the  sugar 
and  suet  together  ;  when  rightly  prepared,  the  tallow  and  sugar  is 
browned  together  jn  one  mass.  There  must  be  no  heat  under  the 
dish,  or  the  suet  will  melt  faster  than  it  should.  For  an  adult,  a  dose 
is  one  teaspoonful  every  hour,  of  the  browned  sediment  in  the  bowl. 
If  feverish,  the  patient  should  drink  freely  of  nitre  in  water,  in  the 
usual  proportion,  and  take  no  other  nourishment.  This  rule  has 
cured  cases  of  this  disease  given  over  by  the  physicians. 

Dysentery  Eeceipt. — Boil  two  quarts  of  oats  in  a  gallon  of 
water,  until  reduced  to  two  quarts  ;  sweeten  with  double-refined  loaf- 
sugar,  and  give  two  gills  every  half-hour,  until  the  disease  is  checked. 

Diarrhcea. — One  teaspoon  of  grated  Turkey  rhubarb  root ;  do  not 
depend  on  the  pulverized  rhubarb  of  the  shops ;  half  a  teaspoon  of  sub 
carbonate  of  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  pure  essence  of  peppermint.  Steep, 
without  heating,  to  boiling  heat,  a  teacup  of  soft  water,  in  which  steep 
the  rhubarb.  "When  steeped,  strain ;  add  the  other  ingredients,  two 
table-spoons  of  loaf-sugar,  and  lastly,  the  peppermint ;  shake  together. 
Dose  for  an  adult,  a  table-spoonful  once  an  hour ;  for  an  infant,  a  tea- 
spoonful. 

Dysentery  or  Diarrhcea. — One  table-spoon  of  pulverized  maple 
charcoal ;  mix  with  one  table-spoon  of  boiled  molasses,  add  two  table- 
spoons of  fourth-proof  West  India  rum,  and  half  a  glass  of  sweet  oil. 


REMEDIES.  379 

Pulmonic  Wafeks. — Seven  pounds  loaf-sugar;  syrup  of  ipecac 
four  ounces,  antimonial  wine  two  ounces,  morphine  ten  grains,  dis- 
solved in  a  table-spoonful  of  water,  with  ten  drops  of  sulphuric  acid, 
tincture  of  bloodroot  one  ounce,  syrup  of  Tolu  two  ounces,  add  to  the 
sugar,  and  make  the  mixture  into  lozenges.  Use  from  six  to  twelve 
in  the  course  of  twenty -four  hours. 

Scald  Head. — Examine  the  roots  of  the  hair  by  pulling  out  a  few 
with  the  tweezers.  If  minute  bags  of  water  are  found  at  the  roots 
of  the  hair,  the  disease  is  the  scald  head,  or  some  other  form  of 
diseased  hair.  The  only  cure  is  to  remove  the  hairs  one  by  one  with 
tweezers,  until  every  diseased  hair  is  removed  from  the  -head.  "We 
have  known  a  number  of  individuals  afflicted  with  this  disease,  per- 
fectly cured  by  this  simple  remedy,  who  had  been  under  the  care  of 
doctors  for  years,  being  injured  rather  than  benefited  by  their  treat- 
ment. Use  a  wash  of  copperas  water,  very  weak,  to  loosen  the  hair. 
Wash  in  Castile  soap,  and  remove  daily  as  many  hairs  as  the  patient 
can  bear ;  it  will  take  but  a  short  time  to  perfect  a  cure. 

Malignant  Sore  Throat. — "Wrap  the  whole  throat  in  tow,  wet 
in  common  tar.;  if  tow  cannot  be  obtained,  use  flexible  linen  cloth, 
or  cotton  batting. 

Quinsy. — Make  a  poultice  of  hops  and  strong  vinegar,  apply  to  the 
throat,  changing  often.  Inhale  through  a  tube,  Cayenne  and  vinegar 
as  strong  and  hot  as  the  patient  can  bear. 

Sprains. — Wormwood  pounded  with  vinegar  and  warmed,  is  an 
excellent  remedy  for  sprains.  Pouring  cold  water  on  the  joint  as 
long  as  the  patient  can  bear  it,  holding  the  pitcher  four  feet  above  the 
limb,  is  a  sure  remedy  for  a  sprained  ankle. 

Hiccough. — A  single  drop  of  oil  of  cinnamon  dropped  on  sugar, 
dissolved  in  the  mouth. 

Ointment  for  the  Itch. — Heat  lard,  and  melt  in  it  a  quantity  of 
brimstone ;  apply  over  the  whole  body  three  times  at  night,  rubbing 
in  well  before  a  hot  fire. 

For  Nervous  Affections. — Compound  spirits  of  lavender  and 
sulphuric  ether,  equal  parts.  Take  a  teaspoonful  once  an  hour  until 
relieved. 

To  Break:  up  an  Obstinate  Cough. — Take  a  dessert- spoonful  of 
ipecac,  mix  it  with  a  little  vinegar  to  remove  the  lumps,  add  the  juice 


380         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 


N 


of  two  lemons,  and  as  much  loaf-sugar  as  can  be  stirred  into  the  mix- 
ture ;  take  just  sufficient,  once  every  hour,  to  keep  the  stomach 
nauseated  ;  continue  to  use  the  mixture  until  the  cough  is  broken  up. 
The  patient  should  guard  from  cold,  and  remain  housed  while  using 
the  mixture.  Lemon  and  sugar,  alone,  will  often  break  up  a  cough, 
that  is  tight,  without  the  ipecac. 

Liniment  of  Saltpetee  foe  Kheumatism. — One  ounce  of  salt- 
petre dissolved  in  one  ounce  of  sweet  oil ;  rub  the  partst  affected. 

Neuralgia. — One  teacup  of  melted,  not  boiling,  lard ;  mix  in  it 
one  ounce  of  the  oil  of  organum,  and  stir  nntil  thick  ;  then  add  one 
ounce  strong  laudanum,  stir  well  together,  and  cork  tightly.  Eub  the 
parts  affected  as  often  as  necessary.     Good  for  rheumatism  also. 

Eaeache. — Equal  parts  of  sulphuric  ether,  and  strong  laudanum ; 
drop  the  mixture  on  cotton,  and  put  it  in  the  ear. 

Tincture  foe  Teeth. — Infuse,  in  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  one  ounce 
of  Peruvian  bark,  coarsely  powdered,  and  gargle  the  mouth  with  the 
infusion  every  morning. 

Alum  foe  Teeth. — One  of  the  finest  sets  of  teeth  ever  seen  by 
the  author,  were  preserved,  by  dissolving  a  small  bit  of  alum  in  the 
mouth  every  morning  before  breakfast. 

To  Clean  the  Teeth. — Powder  one  ounce  of  myrrh,  a  tablespoon 
of  green  sage,  and  mix  them  in  white  honey ;  wet  the  teeth  and  gums 
night  and  morning. 

Chaecoal  Powdee  foe  the  Teeth. — Pulverize  charcoal ;  burn  it 
on  a  red-hot  shovel ;  when  cold,  sift  it  through  muslin,  and  put  it  in 
water,  or  not,  as  most  convenient. 

Toothache. — Chloroform  half  an  ounce,  alum  five  grains,  sulphate 
of  morphine  three  grains ;  mix,  and  apply  with  cotton. 


ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISONS,   ETC. 

Foe  an  Oveedose  of  Laudanum. — Strong  coffee  is  the  best, 
though  strong  tea  is  also  efficacious. 

Foe  Meecuet. — Sulphur  is  an  antidote ;  mixed  with  molasses,  it  is 
useful  as  a  wash  for  calomel  sore  mouth. 


BEMEDIES.  381 

For  Oil  of  Viteiol. — Mix  an  ounce  of  calcined  magnesia  in  a 
pint  of  water ;  give  a  glassful  every  two  minutes. 

Foe  Soda,  Ammonia,  Etc. — Use  strong  vinegar,  lemon  or  lime 
juice. 

Foe  Coeeosive  Sublimate. — Mix  the  whites  of  fifteen  eggs'  with 
one  qnart  of  cold  water ;  take  a  half-pint  of  the  mixture  in  half  a  pint 
of  milk  every  two  minutes. 

Foe  Aesenic. — Give  strong  sugar  syrup,  as  fast  as  possible,  until 
the  patient  vomits. 

Foe  Veedigeis. — Give  large  quantities  of  syrup,  and  a  preparation 
of  eggs  and  milk. 

Foe  Antimony. — Give  sugar  and  water ;  if  after  the  sngar  the 
patient  has  vomited  several  times,  and  still  continues  to  do  so,  give  a 
grain  of  opium  in  a  glass  of  sweetened  water. 

Foe  ISTiteate  of  Silvee. — Give  strong  salt  and  water  until  the 
patient  vomits. 

Fob  Stjgae  of  Lead. — Give  immediately  a  large  dose  of  Glauber 
salts,  at  least  three  table-spoonfuls,  in  a  pint  of  water. 

To  Eemove  a  Bone,  Pin,  oe  any  othee  Obstruction,  feom  the 
Theoat. — Fasten  a  piece  of  fine  dry  sponge  firmly,  as  large  as  a 
filbert,  on  a  fine  wire,  sufficiently  stiff  to  push  the  sponge  past  the 
obstruction  without  bending;  then  swell  the  sponge  by  pouring 
water  down  the  patient's  throat,  and  pull  up  the  sponge ;  the 
obstruction  will  come  with  it. 

Simfle  Cathaetio. — Take  a  bit  of  sal  soda,  as  large  as  a  kidney 
bean,  dissolve  it  in  one  gill  of  water ;  add  two  table-spoons  of  best 
pulverized  rhubarb  ;  work  it  free  from  lumps,  and  add  sufficient 
water  to  make  the  whole  measure  two  gills.  Take  a  table-spoonful 
every  hour  until  it  has  the  desired  effect. 

To  Peepaee  Medicines. — Castor  oil  for  adults  is  taken  in  boiling 
coffee  clear ;  in  hot  milk  ;  or  hot  whiskey,  or  brandy  sling.  To  give 
a  child  a  pill,  tell  it  to  open  its  mouth  while  you  give  it,  and  pass  it 
down  the  throat;  a  child  cannot  be  made  to  understand  how  to 
swallow  a  pill.     Cover  powders  in  roasted  apples.    Salts  are  taken 


382  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

dissolved  in  water ;  sweet  milk  will  remove  the  taste  of  them  from 
the  mouth.  Cayenne  pepper  must  be  taken  in  milk  sweetened  with 
plenty  sugar.    Magnesia  is  best  taken  in  milk. 

For  Frostbitten  Hands  and  Feet. — "Wash  the  parts  often  in 
sugar  of  lead.  If  badly  frosted,  wet  linen  cloths,  and  keep  them  on 
the  frozen  parts. 

Eingworms. — Verdigris  and  mercurial  ointments  are  both  effi- 
cacious. 

To  Scatter  Bun-rounds. — Make  a  strong  lye,  and  soak  the 
finger  until  the  nail  is  so  soft  it  can  be  scraped.  "Wet  the  nail  in  acid 
to  destroy  the  alkali. 

To  Cure  Felon. — Soft  soap  and  quick-lime,  made  into  a  paste; 
make  a  bag ;  fill  it  full,  and  put  the  finger  in  it,  and  renew  frequently 
until  the  pain  subsides. 

Inflammation  of  Breasts. — Two  table-spoons  of  linseed  oil,  one 
of  fresh  lard,  one  of  honey ;  warm,  and  stir  these  ingredients  to- 
gether. "When  cool,  add  ten  grains  of  sugar  of  lead.  Apply  by 
spreading  the  mixture  on  a  cloth,  and  lay  on  frequently.  If  it  is  de- 
sirable to  partially  dry  the  milk,  bathe  with  camphor,  and  rub  with 
lard. 

Abscess,  or  Gathered  Breast. — Equal  parts  of  linseed  oil  and 
strained  honey,  and  sufficient  Burgundy  pitch  to  make  a  soft  plaster ; 
melt  together ;  warm,  and  spread  on  a  cloth,  and  apply  frequently. 
If  suppuration  has  taken  place,  apply  a  warm  flaxseed  poultice,  rubbed 
over  with  lard,  to  prevent  its  sticking.  Tender  nipples  should  be 
washed  in  a  solution  of  borax.  One  of  the  best  remedies  for  this 
trouble  to  mothers  is,  the  skin  and  pulp  of  a  large  raisin,  freed  from 
seed,  drawn  over,  and  tied  on  the  nipple.  It  should  be  changed 
often  until  the  soreness  is  removed. 

Eye  Water. — Ten  grains  of  sulphate  of  zinc,  twenty  grains  of 
sugar  of  lead  dissolved  in  three  ounces  of  filtered  rain  water.  When 
the  eyes  are  highly  inflamed,  make  compresses  of  linen,  and  lay  on, 
keeping  them  constantly  wet  until  the  inflammation  is  reduced.  If 
too  strong,  dilute  with  filtered  rain-water.  Laudanum  and  water, 
and  salt  and  water,  are  both  useful  in  weak  eyes. 

Hair. — Brandy  and  salt  will  prevent  the  hair  from  falling  out 


REMEDIES.  383 

Dyspeptic  Lye. — One  quart  hickory  ashes,  six  ounces  of  soot,  one 
gallon  of  boiling  water;  mix  and  stir  frequently.  At  the  end  of 
twenty-four  hours  pour  off  the  clear  liquor.  Take  one  teacupfnl 
three  times  a  day. 

To  Stop  a  Bleeding-  of  the  IsTose. — Tie  a  string  tightly 
around  the  little  finger,  so  as  to  cord  it.  Elevate  the  arm,  or  pour 
cold  water  on  the  back  of  the  neck. 

Cure  foe  "Warts. — Pare  the  hard  skin,  and  touch  them  with 
strong  acetic  acid  twice  a  day.  If  it  touches  the  hand  it  will  take  off 
the  skin.    Milkweed  will  cure  warts,  if  applied  frequently. 

Corns. — "Wet  the  corns  every  morning  with  saliva,  and  paste  on 
them  young  peach  leaves. 


CHAPTER    III. 

INFANTS. 

New-born  infants  should  be  wrapped  in  soft  flannel  as  soon  as 
born,  for  half  an  hour,  or  longer,  if  the  mother  needs  the  attention  of 
the  nurse.  Before  washing,  place  the  child's  clothing,  pins,  a  bottle 
of  sweet  oil,  etc.,  on  a  chair  or  frame  convenient  to  the  fire ;  wash 
the  infant  in  water  as  warm  as  it  would  be  standing  in  the  sun  dur- 
ing a  warm  summer  day.  Use  sweet  oil,  and  the  finest  soap,  to  assist 
in  the  cleansing ;  let  the  operation  of  washing  be  performed  in  a 
warm  room,  and  as  expeditiously  as  possible.  The  navel  should  be 
dressed  with  mutton  tallow  warmed,  and  spread  on  soft  fine  linen, 
with  a  dust  of  nutmeg  grated  finely  over  the  tallow.  The  first  article 
put  on,  after  a  napkin,  should  be  a  flannel  band,  from  four  to  four 
and  a  half  inches  wide ;  pin  it  snugly,  but  not  tight  enough  to  bind, 
and  make  the  babe  uncomfortable ;  the  little  shirt  is  the  next  article 
of  dress  to  be  put  on  the  child  ;  this  should  be  open  at  the  front,  and 
folded  smoothly,  so  as  to  leave  no  wrinkles ;  the  pinner  comes  next ; 
lay  the  infant  on  its  stomach,  fold  the  shirt  smoothly  on  its  back, 
fasten  the  shirt  and  pinner  together  with  a  small  pin,  leaving  the 
point  covered,  so  as  to  prick  neither  child  nor  nurse  ;  wrap  its  feet 
in  the  pinner,  and  pin  it  as  close  as  possible  without  cramping  its 
limbs ;  then  take  the  flannel  skirt  in  the  right  hand,  putting  the  arm 


384 

entirely  through  it,  leaving  the  band  towards  the  wrist ;  lift  the  feet  of 
the  babe  with  the  right  hand,  and  with  the  left  draw  the  shirt  in 
place ;  fold  the  shirt  over,  and  fasten  shirt,  band,  pinner,  and  skirt, 
together  with  two  pins,  near  the  arms,  being  particular  to  have  the 
head  of  each  towards  the  arms,  and  the  points  hid  in  the  clothing. 
After  drawing  and  preparing  the  fastenings  of  the  slip,  which  should 
be  of  soft  material,  entirely  free  from  starch,  take  it  on  the  right  arm, 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  skirt,  and  draw  it  in  place  with  the  left,  lift- 
ing the  child's  body  with  the  right  hand ;  turn  the  babe  once  more, 
fasten  the  dress,  and  the  little  one  is  ready  for  presentation ;  wrap  it 
in  warm  flannel,  and  put  it  immediately  to  its  mother's  breast. 
"When  the  child  has  drawn  a  little  while,  remove  it  to  its  own  bed  in 
the  crib,  which  should  be  of  soft  materials  ;  a  new-born  infant  should 
not  be  put  on  a  cold,  hard  bed ;  the  covering  of  the  crib  should  be 
light  and  warm.  Soft  blankets  are  probably  the  best  covering  for 
young  infants.  If  the  little  one  obtained  no  nourishment  from  its 
mother,  give  it  again  to  her,  and  do  this  frequently  until  the  natu- 
ral aliment  is  furnished,  after  which  give  it  its  food  at  regular  in- 
tervals. 

Food. — Infants  are  often  overloaded,  to  relieve  their  mothers ;  this 
is  very  improper :  the  mother's  milk  should  be  drawn  by  some  other 
means,  than  the  overfeeding  of  the  child.  If  the  mother  is  in  health, 
the  child  usually  needs,  during  the  early  period  of  its  existence,  no 
medicines  whatever;  should  any  be  necessary,  only  the  simplest 
remedies  ought  to  be  resorted  to :  as  sweet  oil,  manna,  magnesia,  etc. ; 
for  wind  colic,  anise-seed  steeped,  is  an  almost  universal  remedy.  If 
the  child  is  much  distressed  by  griping,  let  the  mother  take  daily,  a 
teaspoonful  of  the  essence,  which  will  usually  prevent  the  suffering  of 
the  child.  If  a  nurse  must  be  employed,  select  one  with  a  sound 
constitution,  free  from  diseases  of  the  skin,  with  habits  and  temper 
good ;  and  a  particularly  cheerful  disposition.  An  infant  can  be  as 
regularly  fed  as  an  adult,  but  much  oftener ;  a  young  child  needs  a 
full  supply  of  food  once  in  an  hour ;  as  it  increases  in  age,  the  time 
between  its  meals  can  be  lengthened  :  an  infant  of  nine  months  will 
do  well,  fed  once  in  three  hours ;  a  child  of  a  year,  once  in  four.  If 
a  child  must  be  fed,  there  is  nothing  better  for  it  than  barley-water, 
milk  warm,  slightly  sweetened  with  a  few  drops  of  sweet  cream ;  if 
tbe  bowels  are  out  oi  order  by  teething,  or  any  derangement  from 
cold,  scorch  the  barley,  and  make  it  into  a  coffee,  until  the  bowels 
are  corrected.    In  preparing  the  barley,  be  careful  to  look  it  over 


INFANTS.  385 

thoroughly ;  wash  it  well,  and  boil  long  and  slowly  in  soft  water ; 
it  must  be  made  morning  and  evening,  or  it  will  become  sour.  "When 
on  a  journey,  use  pearl  barley,  as  it  takes  but  a  short  time  to 
cook  it,  while  the  common  barley  would  require  from  two  to  three 
hours'  boiling.  Goat's  milk  is  perhaps  the  best  food  for  children  that 
are  fed ;  but  a  child  will  thrive  much  better  on  barley  than  cow's 
milk.  Never  waken  a  child  from  its  sleep,  neither  allow  it  rocked, 
to  continue  'a  dozing  sleep,  after  its  nap  is  over ;  either  is  injurious. 
Put  the  child  to  bed  at  regular  hours,  and  teach  it  to  sleep  without 
rocking  or  nursing ;  to  many  this  sounds  absurd,  but  if  a  healthy  child 
is  managed  rightly  from  its  birth,  there  will  be  no  trouble  in  forming 
regular  habits  in  all  things  ;  but  if  dressed,  nursed,  and  put  to  sleep 
when  most  convenient  to  the  nurse  or  mother,  it  will  naturally  have 
no  fixed  habits ;  the  want  of  which  may,  and  often  does,  trouble 
them  through  life.  A  child  should  have,  after  the  first  month  of  its 
life,  in  mild  weather,  regular  daily  exercise  in  the  open  air;  a 
wagon  is  much  better  than  the  nurse's  arms,  but  an  airing  in  a  car- 
riage is  better  than  either.  Be  careful  that  a  young  child  does  not 
strain  nor  injure  its  eyes  by  being  kept  in  too  light  a  room,  or  by 
gazing  at  the  sun,  fire,  or  lamp ;  if  by  any  chance  its  eyes  become 
weak,  a  little  breast-milk  is  as  good  as  any  thing  to  remove  the  irri- 
tation. If  the  navel  becomes  inflamed,  spread  on  it  the  pulp  and  skin 
of  a  large  raisin.  A  child  should  be  well  rubbed  in  every  part  of  its 
body  except  under  the  arms,  which  needs  only  to  be  thoroughly  dried. 
See  that  infants  are  kept  warm ;  this  part  of  a  child's  comfort  is 
often  too  much  neglected :  keep  socks  on  after  the  child  is  two  months 
old ;  before  this,  its  pinners  will  be  sufficient  protection.  The  first 
month  a  child  nurses  very  often,  and  sleeps  most  of  the  time ;  but 
even  thus  early,  infants'  habits  can  be  commenced ;  when  possible,  do 
not  allow  it  quite  to  lose  itself  in  sleep,  before  taking  it  from  the 
mother ;  this  will  teach  it  to  go  to  sleep  without  rocking ;  an  infant 
will  sleep  less  and  less  until  it  is  about  six  months  old,  when  it  should 
have  two  periods  of  slumber  daily.  The  first  slumber  of  an  infant  is 
usually  immediately  after  being  dressed,  and  the  other  about  two  in 
the  afternoon ;  these  naps,  to  be  of  service  to  the  child,  should  be  one 
and  a  half  to  two  hours  long ;  when  it  wakens,  amuse  it  a  short  time 
without  exercising,  before  it  takes  its  food ;  when  fairly  awake  and 
lively,  and  before  it  cries,  give  it  all  it  requires.  It  is  a  bad  plan  to 
allow  a  child  to  cry  for  what  it  needs  ;  all  its  wants  should  be  attended 
to  without  this  trial  of  its  temper  ;  children  have  enough  real  grief  to 
cry  for,  to  expand  and  strengthen  their  lungs,  without  crying  from 
17 


386  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

hunger  or  want  of  attention.  "When  a  child  is  three  months  old, 
commence  to  give  its  body  strength  by  exercise ;  the  nurse  can  toss 
it  in  her  arms,  and  in  many  ways  give  the  exercise  it  needs.  It  will 
now  begin  to  notice,  and  whenever  it  is  observed  intently  looking  at 
an  object,  be  particular  not  to  disturb  its  meditations;  it  is  no  doubt, 
that  by  thus  disturbing  children,  many  parents  prevent  their  forming 
habits  of  concentration,  thus  making  fickle  characters  for  life.  If  you 
desire  your  child  to  possess  a  cheerful,  happy  temper,  meets  its  eye 
with  a  smile,  and  never  allow  it  to  hear  harsh  tones  of  voice.  Some- 
times a  child  may  inherit  a  very  nervous  temperament,  needing  con- 
stant soothing :  such  a  child  more  particularly  feels  the  changes  in 
the  mother's  temper;  with  such  children,  the  nursery  should  be 
guarded  as  faithfully  from  ill  humor  as  from  the  influence  of  noxious 
air.  It  is  in  the  cradle,  children's  characters  are  formed ;  many  a 
mother  unconsciously  prepares  a  darling  child  for  a  life  of  infamy  and 
shame,  when  she  would  willingly  give  her  right  arm  to  shield  it  from 
all  harm.  Never  give  up  to  a  child's  will,  no  matter  how  young  it  is ; 
if  proper  care  is  taken,  the  temper  of  an  infant  need  not  be  roused ; 
but  if  once  it  gets  the  master  of  the  mother,  it  will  soqn  know  how 
to  gain  its  ends.  If  taken  in  time,  a  decided  tone  of  voice  will  usually 
quiet  a  child  crying  for  will  alone ;  if  not,  a  little  pat  will  make  it 
understand  that  it  must  obey  its  mother.  A  mother  writing,  once 
made  a  remark  like  this :  "  The  three  first  years  of  my  child's  life,  I 
expect  to  obey  it,  but  after  that,  it  must  obey  me."  Our  opinion  is, 
that  a  child  can,  and  many  are  made,  to  obey  from  their  birth  the 
wishes  of  its  mother. 

At  five  months,  the  child  usually  is  sufficiently  strong  to  sit  alone ; 
it  should  be  gradually  taught  to  balance  while  sitting,  as  soon  as  it 
can  support  itself  without  danger  of  falling  over;  let  it  sit  half  an 
hour,  or  less  ;  if  left  sitting  too  long,  it  will  injure  its  spine,  or  fatigue 
it  too  much  for  health.  If  the  child  gains  strength,  it  will  generally 
begin  to  creep  between  six  and  seven  months  ;  this-  exercise  should 
be  encouraged :  some  mothers  so  dislike  to  see  their  children's  clothes 
soiled,  that  they  prevent  their  creeping,  if  possible.  Creeping  not 
only  furnishes  the  child  much  pleasure,  but  expands  the  chest, 
strengthens  the  muscles,  and  straightens  the  limbs.  "When  a  child 
shows  a  disposition  to  creep,  shorten  its  clothes  that  it  may  have  free 
use  of  its  limbs,  and  protect  its  feet  with  stockings  and  shoes.  When 
its  limbs  are  sufficiently  strong  to  bear  its  own  weight,  it  will  pull  up 
by  chairs,  and  with  little  assistance,  will  soon  learn  the  art  of  balanc- 
ing, and  walk  alone ;  and  unless  it  gets  hurt  by  fulls,  so  as  to  lose 


INFANTS.  387 

confidence,  will  soon  give  up  creeping  entirely.  Few  children  walk 
before  they  are  one  year  old ;  it  is  best  to  let  nature  take  her  own 
time ;  if  children  walk  before  they  have  strength,  their  limbs  will 
most  surely  be  bent  by  the  weight  of  their  body.  The  teeth  of  infants 
usually  commence  to  trouble  them  between  the  fifth  and  seventh 
month  ;  the  child  drools,  and  shows  inclination  to  press  its  gums ;  on 
examination,  they  will  appear  rounded,  and  often  hot ;  after  a  time, 
the  shape  and  color  of  the  teeth  can  be  discerned.  Sometimes  it 
becomes  necessary  to  lance  the  gums,  but  unless  the  child  is  suffering 
severely,  it  is  better  to  let  nature  do  its  own  work ;  sometimes  a  rash 
is  occasioned  by  dentition ;  nurses  and  mothers  usually  think,  when 
this  is  the  case,  that  it  is  on  the  whole  better  for  the  irritability  of 
the  stomach  to  show  itself  on  the  skin  than  in  a  bowel  complaint. 
If  the  bowels  are  slightly  affected,  rhubarb,  syrups,  and  other  gentle 
alteratives  better  be  used ;  if  these  fail  of  the  desired  effect,  a  physician 
should  be  consulted.  Many  children  suffer  much  in  teething,  espe- 
cially in  warm  weather ;  and  more  deaths  occur  from  dentition  than  any 
other  of  the  diseases  of  infancy.  Give  children,  while  teething,  gentle 
exercise  in  the  open  air ;  guard  carefully  against  colds,  and  be  as 
systematic  in  their  diet  as  possible.  If  possible,  a  child  should  nurse 
until  it  has  cut  at  least  eight  teeth ;  if  the  mother's  health  permits, 
it  is  well  to  nurse  a  child  through  the  second  summer,  as  this  is  prob- 
ably the  most  trying  period  of  an  infant's  existence ;  more  children 
dying  at  the  age  of  one  year,  than  at  any  period  of  childhood. 
Weaning  should  be  performed  gradually;  commencing  first  by  feed- 
ing light  food,  a  little  daily,  and  nursing  but  seldom ;  then  cease  giving 
any  nurse  to  the  child  during  the  day,  and  finally  wean  entirely.  The  . 
food  of  a  weaned  child  ought  to  be  light  and  nutritious ;  rice,  sago 
pearl  barley,  rusked  bread,  barley  groats,  arrow  root,  wheat  flour  pap, 
or,  if  it  agrees  with  the  child,  cow's  milk.  Its  food  should  not  be 
warmer  than  its  mother's  milk ;  neither  ought  it  to  be  entirely  cold ; 
be  careful  not  to  overload  its  stomach,  and  if  the  bowels  show  derange- 
ment, give  simple  alteratives,  avoiding  what  does  not  well  agree  with 
its  stomach. 

Simple  Diseases  of  Ietaxts. — Thrush  is  often  produced  by  the 
lactic  acid  of  milk  formed  in  the  mouth  from  the  milk  of  the  mother ; 
to  prevent  this,  wipe  the  infant's  mouth  and  lips  with  a  soft  linen, 
every  time  it  nurses ;  wash  the  mouth  with  a  weak  decoction  of  golden 
seal,  if  already  sore. 

Bed  Gum. — This  disease  is  of  little  moment ;  use  gentle  herb  teas, 


388 

if  any  thing ;  usually  nothing  is  necessary,  hut  to  let  nature  take  its 
course. 

Vomiting. — If  the  milk  thrown  off  by  the  child  is  merely  white 
curd,  it  is  of  very  little  account ;  but  if  the  matter  vomited  is  yellow- 
ish, the  child's  bowels  are  probably  constipated;  use  gentle  lax- 
atives. 

Colio. — If  occasioned  by  wind  alone,  use  anise-seed  cordial ;  if  from 
acidity,  use  magnesia ;  if  from  an  overloaded  stomach,  give  less  food. 

Diaeehcsa. — If  simple,  use  barley  coffee,  made  of  scorched  barley ; 
if  the  bowels  need  correcting,  use  gentle  alteratives ;  but  if  severe, 
consult  a  physician ;  rhubarb,  syrups,  and  remedies  for  bowel  com- 
plaints, all  good,  may  be  found  in  the  chapter  of  Bemedies.  The  mut- 
ton suet  and  sugar  remedy  is  peculiarly  adapted  to  infants,  and  young 
children. 

Woems. — If  a  child  is  troubled  with  worms,  its  cheeks  will  be 
bright  red,  while  the  color  around  its  mouth  will  be  pale,  breath 
fetid,  appetite  irregular,  and  the  nose  troubled  with  itching ;  it  often 
etarts  in  its  sleep,  and  is  sometimes  thrown  into  convulsions.  Sage 
tea  is  a  simple  remedy,  it  should  be  sweetened  and  drank  warm ;  salt 
and  water,  or  turpentine,  will  turn  them  down,  if  rising  in  the  throat. 
It  will  do  children  who  have  worms,  no  harm  to  eat  a  little  pure 
sugar  every  day.  To  expel  worms,  use  worm  lozenges,  or  other  prep- 
arations for  the  purpose.  If  mercury  is  used,  stupefy  the  worms  with 
pink  tea  made  very  sweet,  the  day  before  the  calomel  is  taken.  To 
expel  pin  worms,  use  sulphur  and  honey ;  but  these  are  better  brought 
away  by  clysters  of  lard  and  turpentine. 

Ceoup. — The  symptoms  are  a  peculiar  hoarse  cough,  which  is 
well  known  when  heard,  though  difficult  to  describe.  For  simple 
croup  symptoms,  use  wine  of  ipecac ;  for  a  child  of  six  months,  use 
one-third  of  a  teaspoon  of  the  ipecac  to  a  table-spoon  of  sweetened 
water,  repeat  often  enough  to  keep  the  stomach  nauseated ;  apply  to 
the  throat  and  chest,  lard  spread  on  thin  paper ;  if  there  is  no  ipecac 
at  hand,  give  goose,  sweet,  or  castor  oil,  mixed  in  molasses ;  garlic 
syrup  is  useful  in  a  hoarse  cold,  but  it  should  not  be  used  after  the 
membrane  has  formed.  The  wine  of  ipecac  should  always  be  kept  in 
the  house  when  there  are  young  children  in  the  family.  If  the  simple 
remedies  do  not,  within  a  few  hours,  afford  relief,  consult  a  physician 
immediately.    It  is  the  colds  that  are  the  longest  developing  the  croups, 


INFANTS.  389 

that  are  the  most  fatal ;  in  such  cases,  the  membrane  is  often  formed 
before  the  mother  suspects  danger.  The  author  knew  of  one  instance 
of  a  child  being  saved,  who  was  almost  gone  with  this  disease,  by 
excessive  bleeding ;  he  was  bled  until  he  fainted  from  loss  of  blood, 
and  when  recovered  from  the  faint,  breathed  perfectly  free.  It  was, 
however,  in  this  case,  the  last  resort  of  the  physician  to  save  his  life, 
and  when  he  fainted,  was  himself  uncertain  about  his  breathing 
again.     Watch  the  symptoms  of  this  disease  with  the  utmost  care,  if 

you  would  learn  to  control  it. 

• 
"Whooping-cough. — If  possible,  keep  all  young  children  from  the 
contagion.  A  child  should  reach  its  sixth  year  before  taking  the  dis- 
ease. If  the  child  has  not  been  vaccinated  ifefore  taking  the  cough, 
have  it  done  immediately,  and  it  will  generally  break  up  the  cough. 
If  a  child  commences  to  cough  in  the  spring,  it  will  usually  recover 
during  the  hot  weather  of  summer ;  but  if  the  disease  commences  in 
the  fall,  they  will  cough  until  the  next  spring  returns,  with  fine  clear 
weather.  Sweet  oil  and  molasses,  cochineal  and  water  sweetened 
with  loaf-sugar,  or  a  tea  of  sweet  alder  (not  the  poison),  made 
into  tea,  and  sweetened  with  honey  or  sugar,  are  all  useful,  but  the 
cough  will  take  its  course,  unless  vaccination  is  performed,  no  matter 
what  medicine  is  used. 

Measles. — The  first  symptoms  resemble  a  slight  cold ;  the  eyes  are 
weak,  and  discharge  a  watery  fluid ;  the  patient  coughs,  and  appears 
languid ;  if  this  disease  is  preceded  or  followed  by  the  whooping-cough, 
it  is  often  fatal ;  both  diseases  very  much  affecting  the  lungs.  The 
chief  danger  from  measles  is  in  the  inflammation  of  the  lungs ;  some 
seasons  it  is  so  very  light  as  to  require  no  medical  advice  ;  when  this 
is  the  case,  use  light  diet,  keep  the  body  open  by  gentle  laxatives, 
avoid  currents  of  cold  air,  keep  the  temperature  neither  warm  nor 
cold ;  if  the  measles  come  out  well,  and  the  cough  is  not  severe,  there 
will  be  but  little  trouble.  Nursing  infants  usually  feel  the  effects  of 
this  disease  less  than  older  children. 

Injukieij  from  Falls  Prevented. — If  a  child  in  falling,  hurts  the 
head,  on  no  account  allow  it  to  sleep  for  several  hours ;  bathe  its 
head  with  cold  water,  and  give  a  gentle  cathartic ;  If  this  plan  of 
treatment  is  pursued,  but  few  falls  would  produce  the  sad  results 
which  too  often  follow  in  their  wake.  If  in  falling,  the  bruise  appears 
like  a  bag  of  water,  wet  paper  in  camphor,  and  change  it  often,  until 
the  water  is  absorbed.    If  bruised  to  discolor,  bind  on  brown  paper 


390  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

wet  in  vinegar ;  if  a  limb  is  injured,  swathe  it  in  a  cloth  wet  in  worm- 
wood and  vinegar ;  for  a  sudden  cold,  induce  perspiration,  and  give 
gentle  cathartics.  For  scarlet  fever,  consult  a  physician.  {See  Kemedy 
for  Scarlet  Fevers,  in  the  chapter  of  Kemedies.) 

For  Canker  Sore  Mouth. — Use  immediately,  a  corrective  for 
the  stomach ;  and  in  the  spots,  sage,  honey,  and  alum,  simmered  to- 
gether and  strained. 

For  Eruptions,  use  cream  of  tartar  and  sulphur,  equal  parts,  mixed 
in  molasses ;  give  what  would  lie  on  a  five-cent  piece,  three  times 
daily. 

For  Earache  in  an  infant,  use  roast  onion  or  almond  oil.  For  an 
overdose  of  paregoric,  use  strong  coffee ;  for  clysters  to  move  the 
bowels  only,  molasses  and  water  warmed  blood-heat. 

In  Convulsions,  put  the  child  in  a  warm  bath,  and  send  imme- 
diately for  the  physician ;  if  the  convulsions  are  from  worms,  force 
open  the  mouth,  and  get  down  spirits  of  turpentine  and  sugar ;  if 
there  is  none  in  the  house,  use  salt  and  water. 

Ehubarr  Syrup  for  Infants. — One  table-spoonful  of  best  pul- 
verized rhubarb,  one  teaspoon  of  pearlash,  two  gills  of  soft  water,  two 
gills  of  best  French  brandy,  and  loaf-sugar  sufficient  to  make  a  rich 
syrup  ;  shake  it  together  briskly,  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
For  a  cure  of  severe  bowel  complaint,  give  a  teaspoonful  every  two 
hours  until  it  operates,  and  afterwards  three  times  each  day.  For 
slight  diarrhoea,  give  three  times  daily,  until  the  disease  is  removed. 

Cranesbill  for  Bowel  Complaints. — Pound  the  root,  and  steep  it 
until  the  strength  is  extracted ;  a  dose  for  a  grown  person  is  a  teacup 
of  the  infusion,  three  times  each  day.  Eoot  and  herb  teas  should  be 
covered  tight  while  steeping.  This  is  an  astringent  tonic  for  obstinate 
diarrhoeas,  after  the  stomach  has  been  corrected,  and  will  often  cure, 
when  other  means  fail. 


COOKING   FOR   THE   INVALID.  39] 

CHAPTER    IV. 

COOKING  FOE  THE  INVALID. 

Indian  Meal  Getjel. — Put  into  a  spider  one  quart  of  cold  water ; 
stir  in  a  teacup  of  cold  water,  a  large  tablespoon  of  sweet  Indian  meal ; 
stir  this  in  the  water,  add  a  little  salt,  and  boil  it  gently  fifteen  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly  for  five  ;  it  can  be  enriched  with  a  spoonful 
of  sweet  cream,  sweetened  or  spiced  to  suit.  For  a  convalescent,  boil 
raisins  in  the  gruel ;  add  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  little  butter ;  break  into 
the  gruel  a  nice  fresh  cracker,  or  toasted  bread. 

Oatmeal  Getjel. — Mix  three  ounces  of  oatmeal  in  a  paste,  and  add 
water  until  it  is  about  as  thick  as  rich  cream ;  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan, 
add  one  quart  of  water ;  stir  the  gruel  until  it  boils  constantly,  and 
afterward  frequently ;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  and  add  salt  to  suit  the 
taste ;  eat  it  with  milk,  or  alone,  as  desired. 

Baeley  Getjel. — Boil  pearl  barley  until  tender,  reduce  it  to 
pulp,  pass  it  through  a  sieve,  add  water  until  of  the  right  consistency, 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  season  to  suit  the  taste. 

Eioe  Flotje  Getjel. — Make  this  exactly  like  Indian  meal  gruel,  using 
less  of  the  rice  flour  than  of  the  Indian  meal  for  the  same  quantity. 

Flotje  Getjel. — Tie  a  teacup  of  flour  in  a  strong  cloth,  and  boil  it 
six  hours ;  when  it  is  done,  it  will  be  a  hard  cake,  of  flour ;  dry  it, 
and  grate  a  large  teaspoonful,  mix  it  in  paste  with  cold  water,  and  stir 
it  in  boiled  milk ;  let  the  gruel  boil  gently  ten  minutes,  and  add  salt. 
This  is  excellent  for  patients  suffering  with  bowel  complaints. 

Milk  Poeeidge. — Take  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water,  boil  it,  and 
thicken  the  porridge  with  flour,  made  into  a  smooth  paste,  with  cold 
water ;  boil  five  minutes,  add  salt,  and  pepper  if  not  too  stimulating. 
It  can  be  thickened  with  rice  flour,  groats,  barley,  oatmeal,  arrow- 
root, or  corn  starch. 

Aeeow-eoot  Getjel. — Boil  a  pint  of  morning's  milk;  make  a 
spoonful  of  arrow-root  into  a  paste,  with  cold  milk ;  stir  it  in  the 
gruel,  and  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  season  with  salt. 
There  is  danger  of  being  cheated  in  arrow-root ;  for  an  invalid  it 
should  be  pure. 


392  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

Ground  Rice  Milk. — Take  a  dessert-spoon  of  rice  flour,  mix  it  in 
a  smooth  paste  with  cold  milk,  boil  one  quart,  stir  in  the  paste ;  boil 
five  minutes,  and  season  to  suit  the  taste. 

Sago  Milk. — Wash  a  table-spoonful  of  sago,  put  it  into  a  quart  of 
new  milk,  stir  until  it  has  boiled,  then  let  it  simmer  until  reduced 
one-half,  and  season  to  suit  the  taste. 

To  Cook  Sago  or  Tapioca. — Cleanse  it  in  several  waters,  and 
soak  it  in  water  an  hour ;  then  boil  it  in  water  until  clear ;  season  to 
suit  the  taste ;  cook  tapioca  in  the  same  way. 

Barley  Milk. — Boil  pearl  barley  in  milk  until  it  becomes  as 
thick  as  thin  cream  ;  flavor  to  suit. 

Jelly  of  Rice  or  Tapioca. — Boil  either  until  they  form  a  mass ; 
pass  through  a  sieve ;  season  to  taste,  and  mould. 

"Wine  Jelly. — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  isinglass  in  half  a  pint  of 
water,  add^aitmeg,  cinnamon,  very  little  mace,  three  cloves,  simmer 
gently  half  an  hour  without  scorching ;  strain  it,  and  set  it  away  to 
cool ;  take  a  pint  of  wine,  cut  into  it  the  jelly,  simmer  in  an  earthen 
jar  until  the  jelly  dissolves,  add  sugar,  another  pint  of  wine,  warm 
all  t  ogether,  strain,  and  put  in  moulds.  Many  of  the  j  elli  es  mentioned  in 
this  work  are  useful  to  the  sick. 

Caudle. — Make  a  smooth  thick  gruel  with  groats,  or  Indian  meal ; 
stir  it  while  cooling,  and  add  nutmeg,  sugar,  and  wine,  to  suit  the 
taste. 

Mulled  Egg,  in  Tea  or  jCoffee. — Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  very 
light ;  have  ready  a  hot  cup  of  tea  or  coffee,  seasoned  with  sugar  and 
cream,  or  boiled  milk,  to  suit  the  taste ;  pour  it  gradually  in  the  egg, 
beating  the  egg  briskly,  while  mixing.  This  is  both  nourishing  and 
palatable  for  an  invalid  breakfast. 

Egg  Mulled  in  Wine  or  Water. — Beat  the  yolk  very  light,  have 
the  wine  or  water  hot  but  not  boiling  ;  flavor  to  suit,  with  sugar, 
nutmeg,  or  mace,  and  stir  it  into  the  egg,  beating  constantly  while 
mixing ;  if  the  egg  is  stirred  into  the  wine  or  water,  it  will  curdle  in- 
stead of  thickening. 

Milk  and  Wine  for  an  Invalid. — Put  a  gill  of  wine  in  a  pint 
tumbler ;  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste  ;  hold  the  tumbler 


COOKING    FOR    THE    INVALID.  393 

containing  the  wine,  some  distance  from  the  cow,  and  strip  the  milk 
into  it  as  fast  as  possible,  until  the  foam  reaches  the  top  of  the  glass, 
and  drink  it  immediately ;  this  is  very  strengthening  for  a  feeble 
person ;  it  should  be  drunk  morning  and  evening. 

Egg  Mulled  with  Milk. — Beat  a  yolk,  and  add  to  it  boiled  milk, 
sugar,  and  spice  to  the  taste. 

Kaw  Egg  and  Milk. — Beat  a  yolk  very  light,  add  it  to  a  tumbler 
three-fourths  full  of  milk ;  beat  until  it  foams ;  add  sugar,  and  flavor 
with  orange  syrup. 

Kaw  Egg  and  Wine. — Drop  an  egg  in  wine,  and  drink  it  without 
breaking  the  egg ;  or  beat  the  yolk,  add  it  to  the  wine  ;  beat  them 
together ;  flavor  to  suit ;  beat  the  whites  as  light  as  possible,  and 
then  beat  them  through  the  yolk,  wine,  sugar,  and  spices ;  drink  im- 
mediately after  mixing. 

Meat  and  Bee  ad  Panada. — Mince  so  small  that  it  will  pass 
through  a  coarse  sieve,  the  white  meat  of  a  cold  chicken,  beef,  or 
mutton ;  boil  broth  or  water,  season  with  salt,  and  thicken  with  the 
minced  meat ;  stir  it  constantly  while  boiling,  and  serve  with  nice 
toasted  bread  broken  in  bits.  Bread,  may  be  used  in  the  same  man- 
ner with  mutton  or  chicken  soup. 

Beead  Panada  with  Wine. — Boil  equal  parts  of  wine  and  water ; 
grate  bread  crumbs  and  thicken  the  wine  with  them ;  beat  constantly 
while  boiling,  and  season  to  suit  the  taste.  A  bread  panada  may  be 
made  with  the  juices  of  fruit  and  water  in  place  of  the  wine  and 
water. 

DRINKS  FOR  AN  INVALID. 

Toast  Watee. — Toast  bread  slowly  without  burning :  the  bread 
should  be  browned  through  and  through  ;  put  it  in  a  bowl,  pour  over 
the  toast  boiling  water,  and  cover  while  it  steeps ;  or  more  bread 
may  be  used,  and  cold  water  poured  over  the  toast.  The  usual  method 
of  burning  bread  for  toast  water,  is  as  'absurd  as  burning  coffee  to  a 
coal,  instead  of  browning  it  chestnut  color ;  and  there  is  as  much  dif- 
ference in  the  toast  coffee,  well  prepared  or  not,  as  in  a  good  or  in- 
different cup  of  coffee.  All  dishes  cooked  for  the  sick,  should  be 
prepared  as  nicely  as  possible,  and  served  with  taste. 

Lemon  Watee. — Out  into  a  small  covered  earthen  jar,  half  a 
17* 


394  '  HOUSEKEEPER'S  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 

lemon,  sugar  to  taste,  a  little  syrup  of  oranges,  and  pour  over  the 
whole  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  cover  closely  for  two  hours,  and  let  it 
steep,  when  it  will  be  fit  to  drink ;  if  ice  is  allowed,  add  a  little  to 
each  glass.  Apple  water,  tamarind  water,  or  any  fruit  water,  may 
be  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Milk  Whet. — Steep  a  piece  of  rennet,  an  inch  and  a  half  square, 
in  a  teacup  of  hot  water,  for  four  or  five  hours ;  then  strain  the  water 
into  two  quarts  of  new  milk  ;  when  the  curd  has  well  formed,  press 
it  gently  in  a  sieve  until  the  whey  and  curd  are  separated.  It  may 
be  drank  warm  or  cold,  as  preferred. 

"Wine  Whet. — Take  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water,  both  together 
pleasuring  about  one  pint ;  boil  both  together,  and  while  boiling,  add 
two  gills  of  white  wine  ;  boil  a  few  moments,  until  the  curd  settles  to 
the  bottom,  leaving  the  whey  clear ;  strain,  and  season  to  suit  the 
taste.  "When  taken  warm,  it  promotes  perspiration,  but  if  used  cold, 
is  a  gentle  stimulant. 

Lemon  or  Yinegae  Whey. — Instead  of  the  wine,  use  sufficient 
juice  of  lemon  or  vinegar  to  form  a  curd ;  boil  and  strain  clear.  This 
is  less  stimulating  than  a  wine  whey. 

Kltee  "Whey. — Pour  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  a  table-spoonful 
of  the  sweet  spirits  of  nitre,-  strain  and  sweeten;  let  it  be  drunk 
warm.     It  is  used  to  promote  perspiration. 

Fettit  Abes. — Take  one  part  of  the  juice  of  any  fruit  to  one  of 
water,  and  one  of  ice,  and  sweeten  to  suit  the  taste. 

Fettit  Oobblees. — Take  half  a  glass  of  the  juice  of  any  fruit ; 
sweeten  to  the  taste,  and  fill  up  the  glass  with  ice,  broken  very  fine. 

Sheeey  Cobblees. — Take  a  glass  one-half  full  of  sherry  wine ; 
sweeten,  and  fill  with  fine  ice. 

Baeley  Watee. — Wash  pearl  barley ;  allow  half  an  ounce  to  a 
quart  of  boiling  water ;  let  th'e  barley  and  water  simmer  gently  one 
hour  in  a  covered  sauce-pan,  then  strain  the  liquor ;  if  time  is  allowed, 
merely  soak  the  barley  in  the  boiling  water  from  eight  to  twelve 
hours.     If  allowed,  add  lemon-juice  and  sugar. 

Baeley  Negus. — One  pint  of  barley  water,  half  a  pint  of  wine,  a 
table-spoon  of  lemon-juice,  nutmeg  and  sugar,  to  suit  the  taste. 


COOKING   FOR   THE   INVALID.  395 

Barley  PrNCH. — Take  the  juice  of  one  orange,  and  half  a  lemon ; 
add  loaf-sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  brandy ;  after  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  add  one  pint  of  rich  barley  water,  or  more,  if  the  drink  js 
too  stimulating  for  the  patient. 

Barley  or  Coen  Coffee. — Get  common  barley,  wash  it  in  several 
waters,  dry  and  brown  it  without  burning.  Grind  the  barley,  mix 
it  with  egg,  and  pour  over  it  boiling  water ;  let  it  boil  a  few  mo- 
ments, and  strain  it  clear ;  season  as  the  patient  likes.  This  is  ex- 
cellent drink  for  persons  troubled  with  bowel  complaint.  Corn  coffee 
is  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  is  used  to  settle  the  stomach. 

Kaspberey,  Steawbeery,  or  othee  Fruit  Vinegar s. — Put  into  a 
tumbler  one  gill  of  fruit  vinegar ;  add  sugar,  one  gill  of  pounded  ice, 
and  water,  to  make  the  goblet  full. 

Punch. — Heat  to  109°  a  quart  of  water ;  measure  half  a  pint  of 
powdered  loaf-sugar,  take  a  lump  of  loaf-sugar,  and  extract  all  the 
oil  from  one  fresh  lemon,  by  rubbing  the  rind  with  the  sugar ;  press 
the  juice  of  the  lemon  on  the  sugar ;  mix  well,  add  half  a  pint  of  rum, 
and  one  gill  of  brandy ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  beat  well 
and  long  ;  now  add  the  water  heated  to  the  degree  described, 
strain  the  whole  immediately,  and  let  it  settle  a  little  before  drinking. 
Whiskey  may  be  substituted  in  place  of  the  other  liquors.  Punches 
are  taken  for  sudden  colds ;  it  may  be  made  with  green  tea  in  place 
of  water,  if  better  for  the  patient. 

To  Make  a  Ceeam  Toast  for  a  Sick:  Person. — Toast  the  bread 
nicely  ;  boil  milk,  add  very  little  flour  and  salt,  and  strain  it  through 
a  sieve  on  the  toast.  If  butter  is  allowed,  add  very  little.  (See  Milk 
and  Butter  Toasts.) 

Egg  and  Toast  for  the  Sick. — Let  the  whites  only  of  the  egg 
congeal ;  toast  one-third  of  a  slice  of  bread ;  dip  it  in  hot  water,  a 
little  salted,  and  lay  on  it  the  egg.    Season  with  salt  only. 

Molasses  Toast  foe  the  Sick. — Toast  the  bread ;  add  to  molasses 
a  little  hot  water  and  salt ;  boil  it  together ;  remove  the  scum  from 
the  molasses,  and  dip  in  the  toast. 

Kusk  of  Baeley  or  Corn. — Brown  barley  or  corn ;  grind  in  the 
coffee-mill,  and  eat  it  in  milk.     It  is  excellent. 

Neudle  Soup. — Six  eggs  well  beaten,  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  flour 


396         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

to  make  a  paste  to  roll.  Koll  it  as  thin  as  paper,  fold  it,  and  shred  it 
fine.  Boil  it  in  a  gallon  of  any  meat  broth,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  For  an  invalid,  boil  it  in  milk  and  water,  slightly  thickened 
if  desired. 

Neudle  Pudding.— Three  eggs  beat  light,  add  a  little  salt  and 
flour,  to  make  a  paste  that  will  roll.  Eoll  the  paste  an  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick ;  fold  the  paste  and  shred  fine ;  boil  in  clear  water,  with 
little  salt ;  put  them  in  the  water  while  it  is  boiling,  and  do  not  allow 
them  to  stick  together,  or  uncover  the  pot  for  ten  minutes.,  Take 
them  out  and  drain  well ;  bake  them  one  hour ;  beat  two  eggs  light, 
mix  them  in  a  quart  of  milk,  and  stir  in  the  neudles ;  add  salt,  sugar, 
and  spices  to  suit  the  taste,  and  bake  as  custard. 

Puddings  for  an  Invalid.— Grate  boiled  flour,  (see  Flour  Gruel,) 
make  it  into  a  stiff  paste  ;  add  salt  and  one  egg ;  stir  into  a  teacupful 
one  pint  of  hot  milk,  little  by  little,  boil  it  over  steam  half  an  hour, 
and  serve  with  maple  syrup,  or  sugar  and  cream.  Cottage  pudding  is 
also  light  for  an  invalid ;  also  mush,  plain  rice,  or  milk  stiffened  with 
rice  flour  salted,  and  sugared,  either  boiled  or  baked. 

Griddle  Cakes  for  the  Sick.— Boil  pearl  barley  to  a  jelly; 
grate  boiled  flour  ;  ta&e  a  table-spoonful  of  the  flour,  two  of  the  bar- 
ley jelly,  and  one  egg ;  beat  them  well  together ;  then  thin  to  a  bat- 
ter ;  add  salt. 

Cakes  for  the  Sick. — Sponge  cake  and  simple  cookies,  are  the 
best  cakes  for  an  invalid.    Rich  plum  cakes  should  be  avoided. 

German  Sponge. — Boil  one  teacup  of  milk,  with  a  spoon  of  butter ; 
add  flour  to  make  it  stiff.  Boil  it  over  water  until  it  cleaves  from  the 
pan ;  let  it  cool,  and  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
a  spoon  of  sugar,  salt  and  spice  to  the  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  stiff,  mix  them  with  the  sponge,  and  beat  the  whole  thoroughly ; 
have  ready  veal,  chicken,  or  mutton  soup ;  cut  the  sponges  with  a 
teaspoon,  and  boil  them  in  the  soup  ;  when  they  are  in,  do  not  un- 
cover the  pot  for  ten  minutes ;  when,  unless  there  are  too  many  in 
the  pot,  they  will  be  well  done.  For  a  change,  boil  them  in  milk  and 
water,  a  little  salted. 

To  Dress  a  Chicken  Quickly. — Cut  the  legs  off  at  the  second 
\oint ;  pull  out  the  tail  and  wing  feathers ;  cut  off  the  head ;  split  the 


COOKING  FOR  THE  INVALID.  397 

skin  dovvn  the  breast,  and  remove  the  skin  and  feathers  together ; 
then  draw  the  chicken  and  wash  out  the  blood. 

To  Make  Chicken  Tea. — Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  put  it  in 
a  bottle  with  a  little  water,  cork  and  wire  the  bottle,  put  it  into  cold 
water,  and  boil  one  hour ;  season  with  salt. 

Chicken  and  Meat  Beoths. — Put  the  chicken,  after  the  fat  is 
removed  and  the  parts  jointed,  in  cold  water ;  let  it  boil  gently,  and 
remove  all  the  scum  and  superfluous  fat.  It  will  be  ready  to  use  in 
half  an  hour,  and  may  boil  an  hour  longer ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  if  allowed.    All  meat  broths  are  made  in  the  same  manner. 

Beef  Tea. — Cut  up  a  pint  of  juicy  sirloin  beef  in  small  bits ;  put 
it  in  a  quart  bottle,  with  half  a  pint  of  cold  water ;  cork  and  wire 
firmly,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes ;  then  press  the  meat,  salt  the  tea, 
and  use  it  as  directed  by  the  physician. 

Extract  of  Meat,  No.  1. — Cut  lean  juicy  beef  or  mutton  in  small 
bits ;  fill  a  quart  bottle  three-fourths  full ;  cork  and  wire  tightly,  and 
put  the  bottle  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water ;  let  it  boil  gently  one  hour  ;- 
when  it  is  removed,  press  the  meat,  to  obtain  the  juice  which  may 
yet  remain  in  the  meat. 

Extract  of  Beef,  No.  2. — Have  ready  a  bright  bed  of  coal  •  rub 
a  thick  juicy  steak  with  very  little  salt ;  broil  quickly,  and  press  out 
all  the  juice  as  fast  as  it  gathers.  It  may  be  made  boiling  hot,  or 
used  as  it  leaves  the  beef.  If  used  without  cooking  over,  it  will  be 
more  stimulating  than  if  changed  by  heat. 

Herb  and  Root  Teas.— All  herb  and  root  teas  should  be  made 
with  the  same  care  as  green  tea.  Steep  them  in  earthen,  tightly 
closed,  and  use  the  drinks  while  fresh.  Most  nurses  imagine  that 
herb  teas  are  boiled  herbs.  The  infusions  lose  life  as  readily  as  green 
tea,  by  long  steeping  and  exposure  to  air.  Strain  the  teas  before 
taking  them  to  the  patient,  and  do  not  let  it  become  insipidly  flat 
before  it  reaches  them. 


PART  XII. 

♦+♦ 

CHAPTER  I. 

MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS. 

To  Clean  Dust  feom  Wall  Papee. — Make  a  mop  of  single  cotton 
yarn,  and  wipe  the  paper ;  this  should  be  done  yearly. 

To  Eemove  Fkuit  Stains  from  the  Hands. — Kub  your  hands 
with  rhubarb  stalks  or  sorrel. 

To  Eemove  Odoe  feom  Waee. — Boil  the  ware  in  soap-suds,  put- 
ting the  articles  in  the  wash  boiler  when  the  suds  is  cold. 

To  Make  a  Good  "Whitewash. — Six  quarts  clean,  white,  well- 
burnt  lime  in  lumps  ;  slack  with  hot  water  covered  tightly ;  pass  it 
in  fluid  state  through  a  fine  sieve ;  add  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  burnt 
alum  pulverized,  one  of  pound  loaf-sugar,  three  pints  rice  flour,  made 
into  a  thin  well-boiled  paste,  one  pound  clean  glue  dissolved,  and  add 
five  gallons  hot  water.  If  used  outside,  put  it  on  warm.  It  takes  one 
pint  to  the  square  yard.    It  may  be  colored  if  desired. 

Common  Whitewash. — Slack  good  lime  with  hot  water ;  thin  it 
with  skimmed  milk ;  add  alum,  and  stir  it  often  while  putting  it  on. 
If  desired  buff,  add  a  bit  of  copperas  as  large  as  a  filbert  to  one  pail- 
ful. Einse  the  brush  in  cold  water  when  not  in  use,  or  to  put  away. 
The  lime  eats  the  bristles. 

Gelatine. — This  is  prepared  for  jellies  by  soaking  overnight  in 
very  little  water ;  allow  one  ounce  for  each  quart  of  jelly.  If  the 
isinglass  is  not  pure,  it  must  be  clarified.  Mix  in  a  half-pint  of  water 
a  teaspoon  of  the  white  of  egg^  and  a  little  lemon  juice ;  beat  well, 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  399 

and  stir  it  into  two  ounces  of  isinglass,  which  is  dissolved  in  half  a 
pint  of  water;  heat  these  together  gradually,  constantly  stirring; 
remove  all  the  scum,  and  pass  it  through  a  flannel  jelly  bag. 

To  Keep  Britannia  Beight. — "Wash  the  ware  every  time  it  is 
used,  in  hot  suds  of  fine  soap  ;  rinse  with  boiling  water  inside  ;  when 
hot,  pour  over  it  boiling  water,  and  dry  while  hot  with  a  soft  towel. 
Once  each  week  rub  the  metal  with  wash  leather  and  very  little 
whiting.     Take  care  of  silver  in  the  same  manner. 

To  Remove  a  Broken  Coek  feom  a  Bottle. — If  you  have  no 
cork  extractor,  which  is  merely  four  wires  twisted  together,  bent 
slightly,  to  take  up  the  cork,  use  a  cord  tied  in  a  loop,  drop  it  into 
the  bottle,  loop  it  around  the  cork,  and  draw  it  out. 

Cement  for  Jars  and  Bottles. — Use  one-fourth  beeswax,  and 
three-fourths  rosin,  melted  together." 

Camphor  Spirits. — Cut  in  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine  an  ounce  of 
camphor  gum. 

To  Keep  a  Huff  Smooth. — Before  returning  the  muff  to  the  box, 
twirl  it,  to  straighten  every  hair. 

To  Remove  Spots  from  Furniture. — Bub  hard  in  a  mixture  of 
equal  parts  of  sweet  oil  and  turpentine ;  when  the  spots  are  re- 
moved, wash  the  furniture  in  fine  soap-suds,  and  polish  by  rubbing 
briskly. 

To  Cleanse  Furniture. — Wash  furniture  in  fine  soap-suds,  and 
rub  until  polished.     This  is  much  better  than  oiling  furniture. 

To  Remove  Oil  from  a  Floor. — Cover  the  spot  with  hot  ashes, 
and  continue  the  process  until  the  grease  is  extracted ;  or,  wet  the 
spot  with  concentrated  lye,  as  strong  as  it  can  be  dissolved. 

To  Clean  Yials. — Put  them  in  cold  water  with  ashes,  and  boil 
them. 

To  Remove  Oil  from  Lamp  Shades. — Fill  a  kettle  with  strong 
suds ;  place  a  towel  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  and  put  in  the 
shades ;  let  them  boil  one  hour,  being  careful  that  the  shades  are  en- 
tirely covered  with  the  suds  while  boiling ;  if  not  covered,  the  glass 
will  be  marked  where  they  rise  above  the  suds.    Rinse  in  boiling 


400  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

water  immediately,  and  wipe  dry.    If  shades  are  rubbed  to  remove 
grease,  spots  resembling  oil  will  be  left  on  the  glass. 

To  Remove  Ink-Spots. — If  ink  is  spilled  on  carpets  that  will  not 
spot  with  acids,  wipe  up  the  ink,  and  wash  in  white  vinegar.  If 
acids  will  spot  the  carpet,  wash  in  clear  water  immediately.  For 
linen  or  cotton,  use  lemon  juice,  or  a  weak  solution  of  oxalic  acid.  If 
ink  is  spilled  on  prints  which  will  not  bear  acids,  soak  the  goods  im- 
mediately in  sweet  milk. 

To  Prepare  Rennet. — Take  a  calf's  stomach,  take  out  the  curd ; 
wash  it  clean ;  salt  it  thoroughly,  inside  and  out,  leaving  a  white  coat 
of  salt  in  every  part ;  now  lay  it  in  a  jar  for  three  or  four  days, 
where  it  will  form  a  pickle  ;  then  drain  it  for  two  days ;  resalt,  and 
put  it  again  in  the  jar ;  cover  it  with  paper  pasted  over  the  jar,  and 
let  it  lie  for  twelve  months ;  it  may,  however,  be  used  within  a  few 
days,  but  is  not  as  strong  as  when  left  in  the  brine  for  a  long  time. 
"When  used  for  curds,  the  rennet  is  soaked  in  cold  water,  and  the 
water  is  used  for  forming  the  curd. 

To  Remove  Spermaceti. — Scrape  off  the  spots ;  place  a  brown 
paper,  the  size  of  the  iron,  on  the  garment  or  floor,  covering  the  spots, 
and  put  a  warm  iron  on  the  paper  until  the  oil  shows  through ;  con' 
tinue  the  process  until  no  oil  is  drawn  to  the  paper. 

Thread  Lace  to  look  New. — Wrap  bottles  with  cotton  cloth ; 
wrap  the  lace  on  the  bottles  ;  leaving  the  edge  exposed  at  every  turn ; 
soak  for  two  days  ;  then  boil  half  an  hour ;  rinse  in  two  clear  waters, 
and  lastly  in  clean,  fine  soap  suds  ;  hang  it  to  dry ;  when  nearly  bone- 
dry,  remove  it ;  pick  out  the  edge ;  pass  a  stiletto  through  the  eye- 
lets, and  wrap  the  lace  smoothly  on  a  ribbon-block ;  wrap  it  in  cloth, 
a  little  damp,  one  hour ;  then  press  with  the  hand  on  the  block,  and 
dry  in  the  sun,  or  by  the  fire ;  when  perfectly  dry,  lay  it  away  on 
the  block  until  needed.  Sew  thread  lace  to  collars  very  slightly,  and 
rip  it  off  before  washing.  It  looks  badly  stiffened,  and  the  starch 
makes  it  tender. 

To  Wash  Black  Lace  Yeil. — Prepare  two  suds  with  fine  soap 
and  beef's  gall ;  strain  the  suds ;  dissolve  a  bit  of  glue  as  large  as  a 
ten-cent  piece  in  a  gallon  of  water ;  boil  and  strain  it.  To  the  second 
suds  and  the  glue  water,  add  a  quart  of  water,  very  darkly  colored 
with  indigo,  and  strained ;  put  a  pint  in  each.    Now  soak  the  lace  in 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  401 

the  first  suds  five  minutes ;  then  squeeze  it,  without  rubbing,  several 
minutes,  and  pass  it  through  the  suds ;  squeeze  it,  and  shake  it 
gently ;  pass  it  through  the  second  suds  in  the  same  manner ;  then 
rinse  in  blued  water ;  squeeze  dry,  and  open  out,  and  dip  it  up  and 
down  in  the  glue  water ;  squeeze  it  in  a  towel,  and  open  it  out ; 
shake  it  gently  in  the  wind  until  partially  dried  ;  then  pick  out  the 
edge ;  open  the  eyelets  with  a  stiletto ;  spread  on  the  carpet,  or  a 
large  table,  a  folded  blanket ;  cover  it  with  black  silk  or  cambric ; 
pin  the  veil  out  smooth ;  cover  it  with  black  silk  or  cambric,  and  lay 
on  it  a  marble  slab,  or  some  other  flat,  even  weight ;  when  it  has  lain 
one  hour,  fold  the  vail  evenly,  in  the  same  manner  it  was  originally 
folded ;  lay  it  on  the  table,  and  press  until  bone-dry.  Black  edging 
may  be  washed  as  above. 

To  Eenew  Black  Tissue  Veils. — Dip  them  in  thin  glue  water ; 
shake  them  gently  until  nearly  dry ;  spread  black  silk  or  cambric  on 
the  ironing  blanket,  and  press  with  a  moderate  iron. 

To .  Remove  Water  Spots  feom  Black  Crape. — Clap  crape,  that 
has  been  wet,  until  dry.    The  best  way  to  do  this  is  to  spread  the 
spot  on  the  hand,  and  slap  it  with  the  other  until  the  spot  disappears.      / 
If  dried  before  the  spot  was  noticed,  it  will  need  dampening. 

To  Stiffen  Crape. — Hold  crape  over  patatoes  or  rice  while  boil- 
ing, and  let  it  dry  by  the  fire. 

To  Remove  Broken  Spots  from  Velvet. — Hold  the  wrong  side 
of  the  velvet  over  steam,  and  while  damp  draw  the  wrong  side  across 
a  clean  stove-pipe,  or  warm  iron,  several  times.  This  is  the  only 
proper  method  to  press  velvets. 

To  Iron  Ribbons. — Heat  an  iron,  turn  it  on  the  side,  and  draw    \J 
the  wrong  side  of  the  ribbons  over  it,  holding  them  firmly  to  the    /*~~ 
iron.    Ribbons  ironed  in  the  usual  way  look  badly. 

To  Wash  Ribbons. — Make  a  suds  with  fine  hand  soap,  lay  them 
flat  on  a  plate,  take  a  brush,  dip  it  in  the  soap,  and  first  brush  the 
soiled  spots ;  rinse  it  up  and  down  in  clear  water,  dip  it  in  the  suds,  * 
take  a  soft  cloth  and  draw  the  ribbon  through  it  until  it  looks  clear, 
dipping  the  ribbon  each  time  in  the  suds,  but  not  letting  it  lie ;  rinse 
in  the  same  manner,  and  draw  it  through  a  towel  until  dry,  and  press 
as  above.    If  left  to  soak,  the  colors  run  and  fade ;  if  rubbed,  the  silk 


402 

wrinkles  and  will  not  press  smooth  ;  if  dried  without  rubbing  through 
the  towel,  the  colors  will  run  and  the  ribbon  will  be  stiff. 

To  Cleanse  Kid  Gloves. — Put  the  gloves  on  a  person's  hand ;  have 
ready  some  old  skim  milk  perfectly  sweet,  and  some  fine  white  soap ; 
dampen  a  soft  white  cloth,  wrap  it  around  the  forefinger,  rub  it  once  on 
soap,  and  rub  the  spots  from  the  gloves,  change  the  place  in  the  cloth 
when  it  looks  soiled ;  go  over  the  whole  gloves  without  wetting  through ; 
when  it  is  quite  clean,  take  it  off,  pull  and  stretch  the  leather  so  as 
to  stretch  every  grain  several  ways ;  now  shape  the  glove,  and  polish 
.  it  with  French  chalk  if  light,  or  by  friction  of  the  hand  if  dark. 
White  gloves  may  be  cleansed  several  times  in  this  manner ;  they 
may  be  cleansed  without  putting  on  the  gloves,  but  not  as  perfectly ; 
if  allowed  to  dry  damp,  they  will  be  ruined.    . 

To  Save  Wet  Gloves. — If  gloves  are  wet  through  by  rain  or 
perspiration,  wring  them  in  a  towel,  and  stretch  the  leather  until  quite 
dry ;  if  dried  before  this  can  be  done,  wet  them  again,  and  stretch  un- 
til dry. 

To  Wash  Doeskin  Gloves. — Wash  them  in  water  of  blood-heat, 
wring  as  dry  as  possible,  and  let  them  hang  in  the  house,  away  from 
heat,  until  two-thirds  dry ;  then  stretch  until  soft.  Wash  leather,  used 
for  cleaning  glass  or  silver,  may  be  washed  as  above ;  also  buckskin 
mittens,  shirts,  etc. 

To  Remove  Ikon  Moulds. — Dissolve  oxalic  acid  in  water,  wet 
the  spot,  rub  it  a  little,  and  hang  it  by  the  window  in  the  sun ;  be 
careful  that  the  liquid  is  not  so  strong  as  to  eat  the  fabric ;  it  is  rank 
poison :  keep  it  from  children. 

To  Behove  Fktjit  Stains. — Pour  through  linen,  stained  by  fruit, 
boiling  water  (see  Washing)  before  it  is  wet. 

Tea  and  Coffee  Stains. — Tea  and  coffee  are  set  by  alkali  or 
copperas ;  rinse  out  stains  of  tea  or  coffee  in  warm  water. 

To  Scouk  a  Caepet. — If  there  is  a  fulling-mill  near,  the  best  plan 
would  be  to  rip  the  carpet,  shake  the  dust  well  out,  and  have  it  passed 
through  the  mill ;  if  not,  after  it  is  shook  and  ripped,  lay  it  on  a  clean 
floor ;  have  ready  plenty  suds  and  ox-gall,  mix  a  part  of  the  gall  with  the 
suds,  and  scour  the  carpet  with  a  common  scrubbing-brush,  until  quite 
clean ;  rinse  it,  until  the  water  is  clear,  without  wringing ;  if  a  river 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS.  403 

is  near,  tie  to  each  breadth  a  rope,  and  float  it  in  the  water  until  clear ; 
then  rinse  in  water,  a  little  stiffened  with  bran,  to  make  it  sweep 
clean ;  dry  it  in  the  wind,  and  press  with  a  tailor's  goose  when  nearly 
dry,  until  bone  dry. 

Bleaching  Fluid. — Put  into  a  quart  jar  four  ounces  of  chloride  of 
!jme :  add  a  little  water,  and  stir  it  until  the  lumps  are  all  broken 
and  the  chloride  unites  with  the  water,  forming  a  mortar ;  then  fill 
the  bottle  nearly  full  of  water,  and  let  it  stand  corked  two  weeks ; 
open  the  bottle  twice  daily  to  let  off  the  gas?  or  the  bottle  may  break ; 
be  careful  not  to  inhale  the  gas  when  opening  the  bottle ;  do  not  let 
the  bottle  remain  open  over  a  moment  each  time ;  dilute  with  water, 
and  soak  linen  that  is  yellow,  in  it,  or  add  very  little  to  the  boiling 
suds. 

To  Eemove  Spots  of  Paint. — Rub  the  paint  with  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine ;  if  dry,  drop  it  on  the  paint  and  let  it  lie ;  rub  the  spot,  and 
if  not  removed,  repeat  the  process.  Pitch  or  tar  may  be  removed  in 
the  same  manner. 

Receipt  for  Cleaning  Hearth  Rugs. — Dissolve  in  a  quart  of 
warm  water,  one  and  a  half  ounce  of  alum ;  the  same  weight  of  full- 
er's earth,  in  another  quart ;  put  a  gill  of  each  in  a  gallon  of  water, 
'and  add  a  table-spoon  of  beef-gall ;  wash  the  spot  in  this  mixture 
with  a  white  flannel,  brush  it  over  with  soap,  wash  it  off,  and  rub  dry ; 
then  make  a  suds  ;  add  a  gill  of  the  two  preparations  to  one  gallon  of 
suds ;  wash  it  over  and  rub  it  as  dry  as  possible.  A  whole  carpet 
may  be  washed  as  above. 

To  Remove  Soil  From  Carpets. — Sprinkle  the  carpet  all  over 
with  dry  Indian  meal  or  wheat  bran,  and  sweep  it  hard. 

Tq  Bleach  "White  Silks  or  Flannel. — "Wash  the  articles  'clean, 
rinse  in  suds,  and  smoke  with  brimstone  while  wet ;  the  silk  must  be 
brushed  or  washe^  with  a  sponge ;  if  rubbed,  it  will  never  press 
smoothly ;  expose  the  goods  to  the  air,  and  the  odor  will  soon  pass 
off. 

To  Cleanse  White  or  Fawn-colored  Feathers. — Dissolve  fine 
soap  in  boiling  water ;  add  a  lump  of  soda,  strain  the  suds  and  cool 
a  little  ;  when  you  can  bear  the  heat  of  the  water,  pass  the  feathers 
through  it,  squeezing  them  gently,  and  passing  them  through  the 
hand ;  repeat  the  process  with  weak  suds,  without  soda ;  rinse  them 


404  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

in  cold  water,  and  strike  them  on  the  left  hand  until  nearly  dry ;  then 
take  a  small  silver  or  some  other  blunt-edged  knife,  and  draw  each 
fibre  over  the  edge,  curling  it  as  you  please ;  if  desired  flat,  it  may 
then  be  pressed  between  the  leaves  of  a  large  book.  Black  feathers  are 
cleansed  with  gall  water,  and  dried  as  above. 

To  Prevent  White  Silks,  Merinoes,  or  Feathers  turning  Yel- 
low.— Pack  them  in  boxes  lined  with  brown  paper,  and  lay  white 
beeswax  in  the  box. 

To  Prevent  a  Hat  from  being  Dusted  in  a  Bandbox. — When 
travelling  with  a  bandbox,  paste  paper  over  the  edge  of  the  cover, 
to  keep  dust  from  sifting  in. 

To  Renew  Feathers. — Put  the  feathers  in  a  barrel  of  suds ;  pound 
them  well  through  three  suds,  rinse  in  two  waters,  wring  in  a  cloth, 
and  put  them  in  a  small  room  with  no  carpet ;  spread  them  on  a 
clean  floor,  and  whip  them  daily  with  a  small,  long  stick ;  tie  up  your 
head,  and  cover  your  face  with  a  veil  when  beating  them.  Old 
feathers  will  be  as  light  as  new  treated  in  this  manner. 

To  "Wash  Feather  Beds. — Lay  the  beds  on  a  clean  floor,  and  scrub 
them  with  a  clean  stiff  brush  or  broom  ;  first  one  side,  and  then  the 
other  ;  rinse  in  the  same  manner,  and  dry  in  the  sun  ;  shake  them  up 
four  or  five  times  daily.  This  renews  the  feathers,  and  cleanses  the 
ticks  at  the  same  time.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  lay  old  feather-beds  in  the 
rain  after  scouring. 

To  Protect  Carpets  from  Moths. — Scatter  camphor  under  the 
carpet  before  laying  down. 

To  Save  Stair  Carpets. — Nail  several  thicknesses  of  old  carpet 
or  canvas  over  the  edge  of  each  stair.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  buy  more 
carpet  than  is  needed  to  cover  the  stairs,  and  move  it  several  times 
each  season,  so  that  the  whole  will  wear  evenly ;  if  stair  carpets  can- 
not be  changed  in  this  way,  they  will  not  last  long. 

To  Cleanse  Hair  Brushes. — Rub  them  in  dry  Indian  meal,  until 
the  oil  and  dust  are  extracted. 

To  Cleanse  Baking  Plates. — Boil  them  in  strong  soap  suds. 

To  Cleanse  Inside  of  Teapots. — Pour  into  them  strong  lye,  but 
do  not  spill  any  on  the  outside,  as  it  will  discolor  them ;  tea  steepers, 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  405 

and  coffee  pots  also,  may  be  cleansed  with  a  weaker  lye,  or  be  filled 
with  ashes  and  water,  and  boiled  out. 

To  Cleanse  Windows. — After  the  windows  are  cleansed,  and  the 
corners  freed  from  dust,  rub  them  bright  with  newspapers. 

To  Clean  House. — Commence  with  the  cellar ;  when  that  is  in 
order,  go  to  the  garret ;  then  regulate  the  closets ;  after  which,  take 
up  the  carpets  from  the  upper  story,  clean  the  paint,  etc.,  put  down 
the  carpets,  and  then  take  the  next  story,  until  the  house  is  cleansed. 

To  "Wash  "White  Paint. — Make  a  solution  of  soda-water ;  wipe  off 
the  paint  without  soap,  and  rinse  with  clear  water ;  soap  injures  paint. 
If  not  so  strong  as  to  eat  the  hands,  it  will  not  injure  paint.  (This 
rule  was  obtained  from  a  painter.) 

To  Shake  Caepets. — Carpets  should  be  shook  in  the  sun,  to  de- 
stroy any  moths  which  may  have  lain  in  them  during  the  winter ; 
shake  them  until  no  dust  escapes.  It  is  useless  to  clean  house  and 
put  down  dusty  carpets. 

To  Pack  a  Teunk. — Fold  each  article  flat  without  wrinkles  :  more 
can  be  pressed  into  a  trunk  flat,  than  in  bundles. 

To  Peeseeve  Teunks. — Have  rollers  put  on  all  heavy  trunks,  and 
cover  them  with  strong  canvas. 

To  Peeseeve  Gilt  Feames. — Yarnish  them  with  a  thin  white 
varnish,  made  for  the  purpose,  touching  them  lightly  with  the  brush. 

To  Wash  Oil  Cloths. — Take  equal  parts  of  skimmed  milk  and 
water,  wash  off  the  dust,  and  wipe  dry. 

To  Peeseeve  Oil  Cloths. — Yarnish  oil  cloths  every  spring,  that 
are  used  in  winter,  and  let  them  lie  until  wanted,  spread  out.  Yarnish 
those  covering  rooms  in  the  summer  and  in  the  fall,  and  let  them  he 
until  spring  ;  if  used  while  the  varnish  is  green,  it  will  turn  if  washed 
with  nothing  but  water ;  and  the  varnish  will  come  off  if  washed 
with  suds.  English  oil  cloths  are  the  best,  because  the  oldest ;  Amer- 
icans send  theirs  to  market  while  green. 

To  Wash  Down. — If  sewed  on  cloth,  wash  in  suds  until  clean  ; 
rinse  in  blue  water,  shake  and  whip  until  perfectly  light. 

To  Cut  and  Sew  Fue. — Turn  fur  on  the  skin  side,  draw  across  it  a 


406         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

sharp  knife,  not  quite  separating  the  skin,  then  pnll  it  apart ;  if  cut 
with  scissors,  the  fur  will  be  cut  with  the  skin ;  sew  it  over  hand  on 
the  wrong  side. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  a  Leather-covered  Book. — Rub  the 
leather  with  white  flannel,  briskly,  and  repeat  the  operation  until  it 
disappears.  Grease  may  be  removed  from  any  goods  that  will  bear 
rubbing  in  the  same  manner. 

To  Polish  Stoves. — Use  British  lustre;  black  them  cold  and 
polish  with  a  stiff  broom.    If  polished  hot,  they  soon  burn  off. 

To  Clean  Marble. — Pulverize  a  little  stone  blue  with  four  ounce9 
of  whiting ;  mix  them  with  an  ounce  of  soda  dissolved  in  very  little 
water,  and  four  ounces  of  soft  soap  ;  boil  the  mixture  fifteen  minutes 
over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly  ;  lay  it  on  the  marble  with  a  brush 
while  hot,  and  let  it  lie  half  an  hour ;  wash  it  in  warm  water,  with 
flannel  and  scrubbing-brush,  and  wipe  it  dry.  .  • 

To  Remove  Paint  and  Putty  from  Glass. — Make  a  strong  solution 
of  soda,  and  wet  the  glass  several  times. 

Creaking  Hinges.-— Rub  hinges  with  very  little  soft  soap  if  they 
creak. 

To  Remove  a  Glass  Stopper. — Dip  in  boiling  water  the  neck  of 
the  bottle. 

Red  Ink. — Best  carmine  four  grains ;  pure  filtered  rain-water  one 
ounce ;  spirits  of  ammonia,  forty  drops ;  a  piece  of  gum-arabic  as 
large  as  a  kidney  bean. 

Blue  Ink. — Half  an  ounce  Prussian  blue,  and  half  an  ounce  oxalic 
acid ;  powder  them  finely ;  add  pure  soft  water  tQ/make  a  paste,  and 
work  them  until  fine  ;  leave  it  four  days,  then  add  water,  and  a  small 
piece  of  gum-arabic,  until  of  the  proper  consistency. 

Indelible  Ink. — Mtrate  of  silver,  three-fourths  of  an  ounce,  dis- 
solved in  liquor  ammoniac  fortissime,  two  ounces  and  seven-eighths  of 
an  ounce ;  gum-mucilage,  six  ounces ;  orchel  three-eighths  of  an  ounce : 
use  it  without  any  preparation.  Always  try  indelible  ink  on  cotton 
cloth  before  marking,  as  it  sometimes  eats. 

Elderberry  Syrup. — One  quart  of  juice,  half  a  pound  of  loaf- 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  407 

sugar,  one  table-spoon  heaping  full  of  cinnamon,  just  pulverized,  the 
same  of  cloves  and  nutmeg ;  boil  the  juice  and  spices  together  half  an 
hour,  strain  and  add  the  sugar,  boil  and  skim  well ;  when  cold,  put  it 

in  a  bottle,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  fourth  brandy. 

» 

Blackberry    Syrup. — One  quart  of  juice,  one   table-spoon  of 
cinnamon,  one  of  nutmeg,  half  as  much  cloves,  one  pound  loaf-sugar ; « 
mix  all  together,  add  one  pint  brandy,  bottle,  and  in  two  weeks  strain. 
These  two  receipts  are  used  for  children's  bowel  complaints. 

IRON   WARE. 

Gridiron. — The  gridiron  should  be  neither  light  nor  heavy,  with 
the  bars  bevelling ;  keep  the  bars  bright  by  scouring. 

Iron  Basin. — The  bottom  should  be  rounding,  and  of  light  ware. 

Enamelled  Kettles. — Never  cook  solids" in  these  kettles;  if  the 
glazing  cleaves  off,  it  will  poison  the  food.  Cleanse  with  ashes  and 
water  if  discolored  by  fruit ;  .never  set  them  empty  on  the  stove,  or 
partly  filled,  on  the  hearth.  If  the  glazing  cracks,  they  are  unsafe 
to  use. 

"Waffle  Irons. — Select  those  that  bake  four  cakes,  and  are  deep 
enough ;  some  are  very  shallow,  and  let  the  butter  run  over.  To 
grease  waffle  well  and  economically,  a  swab  is  necessary ;  melt  butter, 
dip  in  the  swab,  and  grease  when  hot ;  when  the  cakes  are  baked, 
wipe  the  irons  on  the  outside,  but  leave  the  inside  greased,  or  th^ey 
will  rust  before  again  used. 

Spidees. — Buy  one  with  an  iron  cover,  if  possible. 

Omelette  Pan. — These  are  very  small  frying  pans ;  a  large  pan 
spreads  the  omelette  too  much. 

Ieon  Bake  Ovens. — A  moderate  iron  bake  oven  is  very  convenient 
in  any  family ;  they  may  be  used  on  a  stove,  instead  of  putting  them 
on  coals. 

To  Clean  a  Griddle. — Scour  a  griddle  with  salt  and  rusked 
bread,  and  always  wipe  it  clean  around  the  edge  before  putting  it 
away. 

To  Clean  a  Brass  Kettle. — Wash  it  in  vinegar,  and  salt  and  rinse 
it  well  before  using.    To  clean  one  to  set  away,  use  no  acids ;  it  will 


408         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

corrode  if  cleaned  with  vinegar ;  scour  it  with  Bath  brick  until 
bright. 

To  Preserve  Butter. — Press  out  the  liquid,  and  work  into  every 
two  pounds  two  teaspoons  of  salt  and  one  of  loaf-sugar,  a  salt-spoon 
of  saltpetre,  and  pack  it  tight. 

To  Mexd  Iron  Pots. — Make  a  paste  of  white  of  egg  and  lime,  work 
it  fine,  and  stir  in  iron  filings ;  stop  the  cracks  and  let  the  pots  stand 
one  week.  They  may  be  mended  by  the  tinner  with  a  preparation 
of  muriatic  acid  and  zinc,  used  in  place  of  rosin  and  hard  solder. 

Flat  Irons. — Never  set  them  on  their  faces,  or  allow  nuts  to  be 
cracked  on  them. 

To  Clean  Ivory. — Rub  ivory  knife-handles  with  fine  sand-paper, 
and  polish  with  pumice  stone,  powdered  fine. 

To  Scour  Steel,  and  Keep  Bright. — Rub  steel  with  fine  emery 
sand  ;  wrap  shovel  and  tongs  in  doeskin  or  oil  silk  during  the  summer ; 
wrap  knives  in  doeskin  to  keep  them  from  rusting. 

To  Remove  Mildew. — Moisten  the  linen  with  soft  soap,  fill  the 
soap  with  whiting,  and  lay  it  on  the  grass ;  continue  the  process 
until  it  disappears.     Sour  milk  often  removes  fresh  mildew. 

Labor-saving  Soap. — Dissolve  two  pounds  of  soda  in  five  gallons 
of  water ;  melt  in  this  five  pounds  of  hard  soap,  add  one  pint  of  tur- 
pentine ;  mix  all  together,  and  stir  until  cold ;  make  a  suds  of  this  for 
boiling  clothes,  as  strong  as  is  usually  used ;  rinse  in  three  waters ; 
do  not  rub  the  clothes  except  where  very  badly  soiled,  and  then  but 
little ;  soak  the  clothes  overnight  in  suds ;  from  this  soap,  in  the 
morning,  rub  the  wristbands  and  neck  bindings,  and  boil  one  hour ; 
rinse  in  three  waters. 

To  Remove  Rust. — Scour  with  emery,  sand,  and  sweet  oil ;  leave 
the  oil  on  a  day,  and  then  polish  with  finest  sand-paper. 

To  Prepare  Llme  "Water. — Pour  over  quicklime  as  much  water 
as  it  will  take  up ;  let  the  bottle  stand  undisturbed  until  it  settles 
clear,  and  then  pour  it  off.  Liebig  advises  using  it  in  bread  made 
with  hop-yeast.  Use  one  gill  for  four  large  loaves,  or  a  pint  half  re- 
duced.    Mix  with  linseed  oil  for  burns.     (See  Remedies.) 

To  Dye  Drab  or  Tea-color. — Save  all  the  tea-grounds  in  an  old 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  409 

iron  kettle ;  when  full,  boil  them ;  if  not  very  rusty,  add  a  piece  of 
copperas  as  large  -as  a  filbert ;  boil  all  together,  dip  the  goods  in  strong 
suds,  and  boil  in  the  tea ;  if  woollen,  only  allow  them  to  scald,  if  cot- 
ton, they  may  boil  some  time. 

To  Dye  Buff. — Dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  copperas  in  a  kettle  of  the 
strongest  suds,  or  weak  lye,  and  boil  the  cotton. 

To  Dye  Black. — Put  four  pounds  of  logwood  in  a  rusty  kettle, 
throw  in  all  the  rusty  iron  you  can  find,  and  cover  the  logwood  with 
strong  vinegar ;  let  it  soak,  stir  up  the  dye  several  times  daily  with  a 
stick  with  a  swab  on  the  end ;  wipe  the  rust  from  the  kettle  into  the 
dye  ;  let  it  soak  one  month,  and  when  you  find  rusty  iron,  throw  it 
in ;  add  vinegar  as  it  dries  away ;  then  wet  the  goods  in  strong  soap 
suds,  and  lay  them  in  the  kettle,  airing  several  times  the  first  day 
(this  will  color  four  pounds  of  woollen) ;  let  the  goods  lie  several 
days,  take  them  out  and  expose  them  ten  minutes  to  the  air  three 
times  each  day ;  then  dry  and  wash  until  the  dye  does  not  wash  out ; 
steep  them  in  hot  urine,  or  a  decoction  of  hickory  bark,  two  days, 
then  wash  and  dry.  The  coloring  may  be  performed  sooner  with  the 
aid  of  copperas,  but  there  is  danger  of  its  eating  the  goods. 

Green  or  Blue  Dye. — Eeduce  half  an  ounce  Spanish  indigo  to 
powder,  add  a  pound  of  sulphuric  acid,  stir  them  together ;  add  soda 
the  size  of  a  pea ;  when  the  fermentation  ceases,  bottle  it ;  it  will  be 
ready  to  use  in  forty-eight  hours.  This  dye  is  for  silks ;  scald,  not 
boil,  the  silks  in  suds  until  white,  then  rinse  out  all  the  suds,-  and  dip 
them  in  cold  alum-water ;  air  the  goods  often,  and  do  not  let  them 
boil ;  they  must  not  crowd  the  kettle.  This  dye  is  a  deadly  poison, 
and  will  corrode  cotton  even  if  reduced,  and  woollen  at  full  strength. 
To  color  green,  dip  the  silks  in  yellow  dye,  after  they  are  colored 
blue. 

To  Color  Silk  Yellow. — For  twelve  pounds  silks,  take  two 
pounds  of  weld  or  quercitron  bark ;  tie  the  bark  in  a  bag,  put  it  in 
cold  water,  soak  it  for  some  time,  and  heat  it  to  100°  ;  dip  the  silk  in 
cold  alum-water,  and  then  immerse  it  in  the  dye,  until  the  desired 
shade  is  produced ;  air  often,  and  rinse  in  clear  water.  Chalk  or  pearl- 
ash,  will  deepen  the  color. 

To  Dye  Brown. — Steep  walnut  peel,  and  scald  the  goods  in  them ; 
let  them  lie  until  the  desired  tint  is  produced. 
18 


410  HOUSEKEEPER  S  ENCYCLOPEDIA. 

To  Dye  with  Peach-leaves. — Boil  peach-leaves  in  a  brass  kettle 
in  alum-water,  cool  to  100°  ;  having  dipped  the  silks  in  cold  alum- 
water,  soak  them  in  the  dye,  and  air  often  ;  rinse  in  warm  water,  and 
add  in  the  last  water  a  teaspoon  of  the  oil  of  vitriol. 

To  Dye  with  Saffron. — Steep  saffron  in  alum-water,  and  scald, 
not  boil,  the  silks. 

To  Dye  Scarlet. — For  every  pound  of  goods,  allow  two  ounces 
pure  cream  of  tartar,  one  ounce  best  powdered  cochineal,  and  two 
ounces  of  solution  of  tin ;  mix  the  tartar  in  pure  warm  water,  in  a 
brass  kettle  ;  when  a  little  warm,  add  the  cochineal ;  mix  well,  and 
add  the  tin ;  stir,  and  when  it  boils,  wet  the  goods,  put  it  in  the  dye, 
move  it  around,  and  boil  twenty  minutes ;  rinse  in  cold  water.  For 
silks,  heat  the  dye  to  180°,  wet  the  silk  in  cold  alum-water,  move  it 
constantly,  and  do  not  allow  the  dye  to  boil ;  rinse  in  cold  water, 
without  wringing. 

To  Peeseeve  Bird  Cages  from  Mites. — When  the  cage  is  new, 
anoint  it  with  red  precipitate  ;  if  made  of  wood,  let  it  remain  a  day 
or  two,  and  wash  it  in  boiling  water  without  soap,  before  putting  in 
the  bird ;  if  of  wire,  unscrew  the  top,  anoint  the  screw  and  between 
l^ie  wires,  leaving  none  of  the  ointment  where  the  bird  can 
reach  it ;  if  the  cages  are  old,  scald  them  in  boiling  water,  and  anoint 
them  as  directed  above ;  do  this  four  times  a  year,  and  mites  will  not 
trouble  the  birds. 

To  Eaise  Chickens. — "When  the  hen  has  hatched  all  the  eggs 
which  are  not  addled,  prepare  an  airy  coop,  and  put  her  in  it ;  anoint 
the  chickens  with  red  precipitate  ointment,  and  pnt  them  with  the 
hen ;  feed  the  brood  with  sour  milk,  bread  soaked  in  milk  or  water, 
or  Indian  meal  wet  with  milk  or  water.  It  is  well  to  give,  at  times, 
different  food ;  keep  food  and  clean  water  by  them  constantly ;  the 
hen  will  need  corn  and  lime. 

To  Make  Hens  Lay  in  "Winter. — Keep  them  warm,  and  give 
them  daily  fresh  meat ;  do  not  feed  them  corn  in  the  usual  manner, 
but  keep  it  by  them  constantly. 

To  Keep  Cream  from  Bising. — Take  the  milk  fresh  from  the  cow, 
and  stir  it  until  all  the  animal  is  gone  ;  milk  prepared  thus,  is  much 
better  for,  family  use  than  when  the  cream  rises. 


LIST    OF   KITCHEN    FURNITURE. 


411 


LIST  OF  CONVENIENT  KITCHEN  FURNITURE. 


Ash  pail. 
Apple  parer. 
Appte  corer. 
Acid-ometer. 
Bake  pan. 
Bird  spit. 
Bread  pan. 
Bread  grater. 
Bread  board. 
Bread  box. 
Bread  knife. 
Bread  blanket. 
Bread  toaster. 
Basting  ladle. 
Basting  pan. 
Butter  bowl. 
Butter  ladle. 
Butter  print. 
Butter  cooler. 
Butcher's  knife. 
Bags  for  twine,  etc. 
Bottle  cleaner. 
Bone  saw. 
Biscuit  cutter. 
Brooms. 
Brushes. 
Bell. 
Bellows. 
Cheese  box. 
Cheese  tub. 
Cheese  press. 
Cheese  ladder. 
Cheese  knife. 
Cheese  hoop. 
Cheese  packer. 
Cheese  grater. 
Cheese  toaster. 
Churn. 
Cream  crock. 
Cream  whipper. 
Cream  beater. 
Carving  knife. 
Cake  pans. 
Cork  screw. 
Cork  removers. 
Coffee  mill. 
Coffee  roaster. 


Coffee  boiler. 
Colander. 
Custard  baker. 
Chocolate  mill. 
Chocolate  boiler. 
Chocolate  grater. 
Candlestick. 
Candle  box. 
Cinder  shovel. 
Coal  sifter. 
Chafing  dishes. 
Crumb  brushes. 
Carpet  brush. 
Carpet  claw. 
Carpet  hammer. 
Carpet  stretcher. 
Carpet  sweeper. 
Clothes  basket. 
Clothes  pins. 
Clothes  line. 
Clothes  boiler. 
Chopping  knife. 
Chopping  board. 
Chopping  bowl. 
Cleaver. 
Covers. 

Cracker  breaker. 
Dippers. 
Dishes. 
Dish  pan. 
Dish  brushes. 
Dutch  oven. 

Ika 

Dust  pans. 

Dust  brushes. 

Dripping  pans. 

Egg  beaters. 

Egg  coolers. 

Egg  basket. 

Egg  scalder,  of  wire. 

Egg  lifter,  of  wire. 

Frying  pan. 

Fleur  chest. 

Flour  sieve. 

Flour  shaker,  or  dredge. 

Funnels  of  different  sizes. 

Furnaces  for  charcoal. 

Furniture  brushes. 


Freezers  for  ices. 

Faucets. 

Fish    kettle  for   boiling 

fish. 
Fish  boards. 
Fish    knives  for  cleaning 

fish. 
Fish  bakers  for  baking  fish. 
Fire  box. 

Forks,  large  and  small. 
Fluid  can,  with  caps. 
Flat  irons. 

Forms  for  cake  baking. 
Gridirons. 
Griddle. 
Graters. 

Grindstone  for  knives. 
Hammers. 
Hatchet. 
Hand  basin. 
Horseradish  grater. 
Herb  steeper. 
Herb  strainer  and  sifter. 
Iron  stands  for  flats. 
Iron  lifters. 
Iron  hooks. 
Iron  basins,  with 
Iron  spoons  of  different 

sizes. 
Iron  forks,  large. 
Iron  ladle. 
Jacks  for  roasting. 
Jelly  moulders. 
Jelly  bags  of  flannel. 
Japanned  pails. 
Japanned    canisters    for 

spices,  etc. 
Knife  boxes. 
Knife  cleaners. 
Knife  sharpeners. 
Kettles  of  different  sizes. 
Lobster  crackers. 
Larding  pins. 
Lamps. 
Lantern. 

Lemon  squeezers. 
Lard  knife  of  wood. 


412 


housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 


Milk  pans. 

Milk  pails. 

Milk  strainer. 

Milk  skimmer. 

Milking  stool. 

Meat  board. 

Meat  saw. 

Moat  screen. 

Meat  chopper. 

Meat  tongues. 

Mats  for  tables. 

Mats  for  feet. 

Market  basket. 

Match  safe. 

Mousetrap. 

Marble  slab  for  rolling 

pastry. 
Marble  rolling  pin. 
Marble  mortar. 
Mortar  of  iron. 
Meal  tubs  or  boxes. 
Mills     for    spices    and 

coffee. 
Mallet. 
Measures,  bushel,  peck, 

gallon,  quart,  and  pint. 
Nutmeg  grater. 
Nut  cracker. 
Oyster  knife. 
Oyster  shells. 
Oil  can. 
Omelet  pans. 
Pie  plates. 
Pudding  bakers. 
Pudding  boilers. 
Patty  pans. 
Paste  cutter. 
Paste  roller. 
Paste  jagger. 
Paste  moulds. 
Plate  rack. 
Plate  warmer. 
Pickling  tubs. 


Pork  and  beef  barrel. 

Preserving  kettles. 

Press  boards  for  ironing 
pants. 

Pepper  shaker. 

Poker. 

Potato  masher. 

Potato  knife. 

Plane  for  shaving  dried 
beef. 

Porcelain  kettles  and 
stew  pans. 

Paper  bags. 

Roller  for  towels. 

Rings  for  griddles. 

Rolling  pins. 

Skimmers. 

Strainers. 

Sieves  of  different  sorts. 

Sugar  sifter. 

Sugar  sieve. 

Sugar  bowl. 

Sugar  box. 

Spits. 

Skewers. 

Stew  pans. 

Stays. 

Saucepans. 

Stockpans. 

Soup  ladles. 

Soup  pot. 

Soup  strainer. 

Steak  beaters. 

Steak  tongs. 

Shears. 

Scissors. 

Stairs  or  steps  for  clean- 
ing. 

Sponges  for  cleaning. 

Silver  plate  brushes. 

Salt  boxes. 

Spice  boxes. 

Scales. 


Shovel. 

Salad  forks. 

Salad  spoons  of  wood. 

Salad  bowls  of  wood. 

Soap  tub. 

Soap  bowl. 

Soap  dish. 

Scrub  brushes. 

Stove  brushes. 

Starch  basin. 

Starch  strainer. 

Starch  box. 

Steamers. 

Steers,  or  oven  shovels, 

Tubs. 

Tables. 

Towels. 

Towel  racks. 

Tongs  for  the  fire. 

Tongs  for  meat. 

Thermometer. 

Toaster.  » 

Toast  rack. 

Toasting  fork. 

Twine. 

"Vegetable  drainer. 

Vegetable  steamer. 

Vegetable  boiler. 

Vegetable  lifter. 

Vegetable  stewpan. 

Weights. 

Waffle  irons. 

Wash  tubs. 

Wash  boiler. v 

Wash  board. 

Wash  bowl. 

Water  pails. 

Water  filterer. 

Water  cooler. 

Wood  box. 

Wedge  for  breaking  iee. 

Wine  cooler. 

Window  brushes. 


Meat  Tongs. — Small  tongs,  used  to  turn  steaks,  instead  of 
forks,  which  pierce  the  meat,  causing  the  juices  of  the  steak  to 
waste. 


KITCHEN    FURNITURE. 


413 


Omelet  Pan. — A  small  iron  pan,  with  a  short  handle,  resem- 
bling a  very  small,  shallow,  frying-pan.     Used  for  frying  omelets. 

Broiling  Spider. — This  is  a  spider  with  a  movable  frame  of  iron 
fitting  it,  on  which  the  steak  is  laid.  To  use  it,  heat  the  spider  with 
the  frame  hot,  lay  on  the  steak,  and  broil  it  quickly. 

Fish  Kettle. — This  is  an  oval  pan  with  handles,  a  closely  fitting 
cover,  and  false  bottom,  perforated  with  small  holes,  to  which  wire 
handles  are  affixed  to  lift  the  fish  by.  To  use,  place  the  fish  on  the 
strainer,  put  it  in  the  pan,  and  cover  it  with  the  water ;  when  cooked 
lift  the  fish  on  the  strainer,  drain  it  free  from  water,  or  evaporate  all 
the  moisture  in  the  oven,  before  turning  it  from  the  strainer. 

Scallop  Shell. — This  is  the  shell  of  the  scallop,  an  earthen  dish 
made  to  represent  it,  or  a  scalloped  dish. 

Chocolate  Mill. — This  is  a  tin  vessel,  with  a  handle  of  wood 
passing  through  the  cover,  to  the  bottom  of  which  is  fastened  a 
wheel  of  wood  or  metal,  resembling  a  churn-dasher.  To  prepare 
chocolate  well,  it  needs  to  be  milled  or  beat  until  perfectly  smooth, 
without  settlings  of  grated  chocolate.  To  use  the  mill,  take  the  pot 
from  the  fire ;  turn  the  handle  briskly,  rolling  it  in  the  hand  for 
several  minutes  ;  put  the  pot  on  the  fire  again,  let  it  simmer  a  few 
moments,  and  repeat  the  milling  as  many  times  as  is  necessary  to  in- 
sure a  smooth  pot  of  chocolate ;  usually  two  millings  is  sufficient. 
{See  Chocolate.) 

Cream  Squirt. — This  is  a  small  syringe  of  tin  or  other  metal ;  to 
use,  place  the  tube  in  the  cream,  draw  the  handle,  and  push  it  up 
quickly,  forcing  the  cream  out  of  the  tube. 

Sugar  Sifter. — A  small  silver  box  with  a  finely  punctured  cover, 
used  to  dust  powdered  sugar  over  cakes  and  pastry. 

Gravy  Pot. — This  is  of  iron,  lined  with  porcelain,  and  shaped 
much  like  the  old-fashioned  iron  tea-kettles,  with  a  little  longer  spout. 
Used  to  keep  gravies  hot  until  needed  for  the  table,  and  also  for  mak- 
ing broths. 

« 

Thermometer. — This,  for  the  kitchen,  should  be  cased  in  japanned 


414  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

tin,  the  figures  on  the  scale  ought  to  be  large  and  distinct.  To  use  it, 
dip  the  ball  into  the  water  or  syrup ;  or,  for  testing  the  oven,  hold  in 
tho  oven  and  notice  how  high  the  mercury  runs.  No  kitchen  should 
be  without  one.  They  may  be  used  to  test  the  wetting  for  the  bread, 
which  should  be  about  84° ;  for  testing  the  water  bath  for  fruits ;  tem- 
perature of  the  room  where  dough  is  rising,  which  should  be  from 
70°,  to  84°,  and  to  test  ovens,  which  should  be  about  270°.  This  is  a 
much  safer  guide  than  feeling.  If  a  cook  uses  a  thermometer,  she 
will  know,  after  one  or  two  experiments,  the  proper  heat  of  the  oven 
for  each  kind  of  bread,  pastry,  cake,  and  pudding,  which  will  save 
much  anxiety. 


(The  following  receipts  should  have  been  in  other  parts  of  the 
book,  but  are  too  valuable  to  be  omitted.) 

Howe's  Cookies. — This  is  a  receipt  from  one  of  the  best  of  the 
New  York  bakers,  and  is  superior  : — Mix  together  five  pounds  of 
flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar  ;  after  the 
ingredients  are  well  mixed,  add  caraway  seed,  and  mix  the  cakes  to  a 
paste  that  will  roll  out,  with  a  pint  of  water  in  which  is  dissolved  one 
ounce  of  soda;  roll  the  dough  thin,  and  bake  thoroughly,  without 
burning.  If  they  become  stale,  freshen  them  by  heating  them 
through  in  a  rather  cool  oven. 

Mrs.  Hunt's  Pork  Pudding. — Chop  one  teacup  of  salt  pork  as 
fine  as  mince  meat ;  pour  over  it  hot  water  to  freshen  it ;  after 
which  add  a  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  a  teacup  of 
chopped  raisins,  and  flour  to  make  the  whole  the  consistency  of  cup- 
cake. 

Mrs.  Hunt's  Omelet. — This  is  a  very  superior  omelet  as  well 
as  a  beautiful  dish  for  the  table.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  light, 
and  mix  them  in  a  little  sweet  milk,  say  about  a  cupful,  and  add  a 
trifle  of  salt ;  beat  together  a  table-spoon  of  sweet  butter,  and  the 
same  of  flour,  until  smooth ;  add  the  mixture  to  the  custard,  and  beat 
the  whole  together ;  pour  it  into  a  well-buttered  omelet  pan,  and 
when  it  begins  to  thicken  pour  over  it  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
as  stiff  as  possible ;  sift  a  trifle  of  the  purest  and  finest  salt  over  the 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  415 

whites,  and  when  the  whole  is  stiff  remove  the  omelet  to  a  plate, 
without  breaking  or  bending. 

A  New  Method  of  Cooking  Rice. — Take  three  pints  and  one 
gill  of  the  juice  of  red  currant,  or  of  any  other  acid  fruit ;  add  three 
pints  of  water,  sugar  to  suit  the  taste,  and  flavor  with  almond  or  any 
spices  relished  ;  boil  this  mixture,  and  stir  into  it,  gradually,  one  and  a 
quarter  pound  of  ground  rice,  or  a  pound  of  sago ;  let  it  boil  very 
gently,  stirring  often,  fifteen  minutes  ;  when  well  cooked,  mould  it  in 
fancy  moulds,  or  small  cups  ;  serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  a  boiled 
custard. 

Mrs.  L.'s  "Wine  "Whet. — To  a  pint  of  milk,  when  boiling,  add  a 
wine-glass  of  wine  ;  let  it  boil  for  a  moment,  and  when  the  curd  sets, 
turn  off  the  whey,  and  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar. 

Mrs.  Dicson's  Crackers. — One  cup  of  lard,  one  cup  of  warm 
water,  in  which  is  dissolved  two  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar, and  another  cup  with  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  it,  and  salt 
to  suit  the  taste  ;  sift  into  the  bread  bowl  a  large  quart  of  flour,  rub 
the  lard  through  the  flour,  mix  the  dough  with  the  soda  and  cream 
of  tartar,  adding  enough  flour  to  make  the  dough  quite  stiff.  They 
are  better  if  rolled  in  separate  crackers,  but  are  very  good  rolled  thin 
and  cut  with  a  cracker  cutter  ;  bake  thoroughly  without  burning,  and 
after  they  are  all  baked,  set  the  pan  containing  them  in  a  cool  oven 
until  they  are  dry  and  crisp  ;  or  they  may  be  baked  over  as  wanted, 
each  day. 

A  Mrs.  L.'s  Quick  Beer. — Four  table-spoons  of  ginger,  one  quart  of 
home  hop  yeast,  one  quart  of  molasses,  and  fourteen  quarts  of  cold 
water ;  mix  well,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  bottle  it  imme- 
diately ;  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  twenty-four  hours. 

Elder  Flower  Wine. — Strip  the  blossoms  from  the  stalks ;  to  every 
quart  of  flowers  allow  a  gallon  of  water,  and  three  pounds  of  sugar  ; 
boil  and  skim  the  sugar  and  water,  and  pour  it  while  hot  over  the 
flowers  ;  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  every  gallon  of  the  liquor,  anc£ 
a  small  table-spoon  of  home  brewed  hop  yeast,  stir  thoroughly  through 
the  whole ;  let  it  ferment  three  days  in  an  open  vessel  of  wood  or 
earthen,  covered  entirely  with  a  thick  woollen  blanket,  then  strain 
the  wine  through  a  sieve ;  add  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a 
froth ;  whisk  the  eggs  through  the  wine,  chop  three  or  four  pounds 


416         housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

of  raisins  to  every  six  gallons  of  wine,  and  put  them  in  the  bottom  of 
tho  cask ;  then  pour  in  the  wine,  and  immediately  close  the  bung ; 
it  will  be  fit  to  bottle  in  six  months,  and  will  be  found  delicious 


Scalloped  Clams. — Chop  your  clams  raw ;  boil  five  eggs  hard, 
and  chop  them  ;  butter  the  sides  and  bottoms  of  a  pudding  dish,  and 
spread  crumbs  of  bread  around  it,  mix  the  eggs  and  clams ;  season  to 
suit  the  taste,  and  place  layers  of  clams  and  bread  alternately,  adding 
small  bits  of  sweet  butter  until  the  dish  is  full,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  one  hour. 

Mks.  L.'s  Frosting. — Two  pounds  of  double  refined  loaf-sugar, 
powdered,  and  sifted  through  gauze,  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten 
stiff;  after  the  sugar  is  all  stirred  into  the  egg,  beat  it  for  some  time, 
and  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Cracker  Pies. — One  Boston  cracker,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  lemon, 
one  cup  of  water ;  roll  the  crackers,  mix  all  together,  and  bake  it  in 
an  open  pie. 

Mrs.  Webster's  Corn  Cakes. — Six  ears  of  corn  grated  from  the 
cob,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  six  table-spoons  of  flour  and  salt. 

Cocoantjt  Custard. — The  white  part  of  one  grated  cocoanut,  five 
well-beaten  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  sugar,  and  a  little  salt;  bake 
twenty  minutes,  and  when  done,  cover  the  top  with  macaroons. 

Saratoga  Pudding. — One  quart  of  boiled  milk,  two  table-spoons 
of  flour,  three  of  sugar,  three  beaten  eggs,  and  a  little  salt ;  beat  the 
flour,  sugar,  and  eggs  together,  and  then  pour  the  boiling  milk  in 
the  mixture  ;  beat  all  together,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

Boiled  Flour  Pudding. — One  quart  of  milk,  eight  beaten  eggs, 
eight  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt ;  boil  one  hour. 

Cocoanut  Cake. — One  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  pound  of 
sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  six  well-beaten  eggs,  and  half  a  pound 
of  flour ;  add  the  cocoanut  to  the  cake  just  before  it  goes  into  the 
oven. 

"  Raised  Muffins. — One  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  butternut,  flour  to  make  a  batter,  and  yeast. 


MISCELLANEOUS   RECEIPTS.  417 

Soft  Jumbles. — One  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  one  pound  of 
butter,  one  pound  of  pulverized  loaf-sugar,  six  eggs,  and  nutmeg. 

Mes.  L.'s  Rusk. — One  quart  of  milk,  home  hop  yeast  in  much 
greater  proportion  than  for  bread  (there  should  be  as  much  yeast 
used  as  possible,  without  making  the  rusks  bitter) ;  add  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  and  let  it  stand  until  light,  then  add  one 
pound  of  sugar  with  one  pound  of  butter,  stirred  together,  eight  eggs, 
and  flour  to  make  up  the  rusk ;  let  them  stand  until  very  light  before 
baking ;  when  done,  cover  the  tops  with  sugar  and  egg. 

Mes.  L.'s  Blano -mange. — Dissolve  one  ounce  of  isinglass  in  half  a 
pint  of  sweet  milk,  by  gently  heating  it  over  water ;  when  dissolved, 
strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  add  it  to  one  quart  of  thin,  sweet 
cream ;  sweeten  and  flavor  the  cream  to  suit  the  taste,  and  let  it  stand 
until  the  sediment  settles  to  the  bottom ;  then  wet  the  moulds  in 
ice-water,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  set  it  on  ice  to  cool. 

Ambeosia. —  Grate  cocoanut,  and  mix  it  with  powdered  loaf-sugar 
to  suit  the  taste ;  slice  sweet  oranges  and  sift  over  them  powdered 
loaf-sugar,  fill  a  fancy  glass,  dish  with  layers  of  the  oranges  and 
cocoa,  heaping  the  dish  with  the  cocoa. 

Miss  F.'s  Mead. — To  three  pounds  of  sugar,  pour  three  pints  of 
boiling  water,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  tartaric 
acid,  and  one  ounce  essence  of  sassafras,  bottle  and  cork  tight :  it  is 
not  necessary  to  seal  it ;  put  three  table-spoons  of  the  mead  in  three- 
fourths  of  a  glass  of  ice- water,  and  stir  in  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon  of 


Sundeeland  Pudding. — Six  eggs,  three  table-spoons  of  flour,  one 
pint  of  milk,  and  a  little  salt",  beat  the  yolks  as  light  as  possible,  mix 
them  smoothly  with  the  flour,  and  then  add  the  milk,  beat  the  whites 
stiff,  and  add  them  just  before  baking ;  serve  with  a  wine  sauce. 

St.  Chaeles'  Indian  Bread. — Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  and  mix 
them  with  one  pint  of  sour  milk;  add  a  teaspoon  of  soda  or  saleratus, 
and  stir  in  one  pint  of  Indian  meal,  and  one  table-spoon  of  melted 
butter,  beat  a  long  time,  and  bake  in  common  bake  pans  in  a  quick 
oven ;  they  are  to  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 

Sweet  Beeads  ;  Feenoh  Style. — Put  three  large  sweet  breads  in 
hot  water,  and  let  them  boil  ten  minutes ;  when  cool,  skim,  but  do  not 

18* 


418 

break  them ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  them  with  a 
little  flour ;  then  fry  them  slowly  in  butter,  a  light  brown  on  both 
sides ;  when  done,  place  them  on  a  dish,  and  remove  all  the  brown 
particles  from  the  pan,  retaining  the  oiled  butter ;  pour  into  the  frying- 
pan  while  off  the  fire  one  gill  of  boiling  water,  and  dredge  in  one 
dessert  spoonful  of  browned  flour,  stirring  it  all  the  time ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  stir  into 
the  grovy  two  table-spoons  of  Madeira  wine,  pour  it  over  the  sweet 
breads,  which  should  have  been  kept  warm,  and  send  them  to  the 
table  hot,  in  a  covered  dish. 

Mrs.  B.'s  Lemon  Pudding. — Beat  together  two  coffee-cups  of 
powdered  loaf-sugar,  and  half  a  coffee-cup  of  sweet  butter,  add  the 
juice  and  oil  of  one  large  lemon,  six  beaten  eggs,  and  one  coffee-cup 
of  milk ;  bake  in  a  puff  paste ;  the  oil  is  best  extracted  by  rubbing 
the  rind  of  the  lemon  with  lump  sugar,  which  may  be  dissolved  in 
the  milk. 

Orange  Salad. — Slice  oranges  thin,  put  a  layer  of  orange  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  sift  over  sugar,  add  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  a 
teaspoon  of  wine,  and  continue  the  layers  until  the  dish  is  full. 

Cream  Cakes. — One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  a  half 
pint  of  sweet  cream,  four  beaten  eggs,  and  one  small  teaspoon  of  salt ; 
mix  all  together,  and  bake-in  small  buttered  tins.     To  be  eaten  warm. 

Mrs.  "W.'s  Orange  Custard.— Kub  the  rind  of  four  large  oranges 
with  loaf-sugar  to  extract  the  oil ;  squeeze  out  the  juice  from  the 
oranges,  and  mix  it  with  a  teacup  of  cold  water ;  beat  nine  eggs  very 
light,  and  add  them  to  the  juice  and  water,  beat  well,  sweeten  with 
flavored  sugar  to  suit  the  taste ;  pour  the  mixture  in  custard  cups, 
and  let  them  stand  in  boiling  water  ten  minutes ;  when  done,  set 
them  in  a  cold  place.  Any  other  fruit  can  be  used  in  the  same 
manner. 

Miss  Dey's  Kisses. — Six  ounces  of  powdered  loaf-sugar,  and  three 
ounces  of  butter ;  beat  to  a  cream,  add  the  whites  of  three  beaten  eggs, 
soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  dissolved  in  a  table-spoonful  of  hot  water  (and 
strained),  and  flour  to  make  it  sufficiently  stiff  to  roll  out  in  very 
thin  sheets ;  cut  them  in  small  cakes. 

Boiled  Indian  Puddings. — Our  grandmothers  made  simple  boiled 
Indian  puddings,  after  the  two  following  rules,  which  were  very  good : 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  419 

heat  milk  boiliDg  hot,  stir  into  the  hot  milk  Indian  meal,  making  the 
bntter  as  stiff  as  it  will  pour,  and  let  it  swell  one  hour,  add  salt ;  have 
a  pot  of  water  boiling  ;  allow  one-fourth  of  the  pudding  bag  for  the 
swelling  of  the  pudding,  and  boil  steadily  two  or  three  hours  ;  serve 
with  cream  and  sugar,  or  syrup  of  maple  sugar.  Another  mode  ;  mix 
in  a  quart  of  Indian  meal,  a  small  teacup  of  chopped  suet,  add  a  half 
teacup  of  molasses,  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  stir  into  the  pudding  boil- 
ing water  until  the  batter  will  pour,  then  fill  the  pudding  bag  two- 
thirds  full,  and  boil  as  above ;  turn  the  pudding  several  times  while 
boiling ;  dried  fruit  may  be  added.     Usually  boiled  with  salt  meats. 

Macaroni. — Boil  until  tender,  four  ounces  of  macaroni  in  veal  or 
chicken  broth  ;  when  done,  drain  it,  add  two  table-spoons  of  sweet 
cream,  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  flavoring  to  suit ;  put  it  in  a  dish, 
cover  the  top  with  beaten  eggs,  and  brown  it  in  the  oven ;  or  mix 
the  above  with  two  table-spoons  of  dry  grated  cheese ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  scatter  over  the  top  grated  cheese,  and  brown  it 
nicely  ;  it  should  be  Parmesan  cheese. 

Macaroni  Toast. — Macaroni  may  be  prepared  in  either  the  above 
methods,  and  spread  on  nicely  toasted  bread,  dipped  in  melted  butter, 
or  cream,  and  be  browned  in  the  oven,  or  not,  as  desired. 

Labor-saving  Soap. — For  those  who  cannot  obtain  the  patent 
soaps  labor-saving,  the  following  rule  will  be  found  useful :  Dissolve 
two  pounds  of  sal  soda  in  ten  quarts  of  boiling  rain-water,  add  two 
pounds  of  common  hard  soap  cut  fine,  and  boil  two  hours.  To  use, 
put  the  clothes  in  soak  the  night  before  they  are  to  be  washed ;  rub 
the  wristbands,  collars,  and  articles  stained,  with  the  skin  in  one 
suds  ;  boil  in  a  strong  suds  of  the  prepared  soap,  one  hour ;  suds  and 
rinse  well.     The  clothes  look  well,  and  are  not  injured  by  the  soap. 

To  Cleanse  Grease. — Boil  drippings,  or  any  other  grease  left 
from  meats,  in  water,  and  let  it  cool  until  the  next  day ;  scrape  off 
all  the  impurities  settled  to  the  bottom  (which  is  only  fit  for  soap), 
and  boil  the  pure  grease  until  the  water  is  entirely  evaporated; 'strain 
it  and  pour  it  in  a  crock  for  future  use. 

(The  following  rules  were  forgotten,  and  not  inserted  in  their 
proper  place.     See  Soups,  Sauces,  and  Gravies.) 

Rolled  Butter. — Lay  flour  on  the  moulding  board,  roll  small  bits 
of  butter  in  flour,  until  it  is  thickly  coated  with  it,  lay  it  on  the 


420  housekeeper's  encyclopedia. 

moulding  board  and  roll  it  thin.    It  should  be  prepared  in  a  cool 


Creamed  or  Drawn  Butter. — Stir  together  sweet  butter  and  fine 
flour,  until  it  forms  a  smooth  paste  ;  stir  in  at  first  a  table-spoon  only 
of  hot  water,  beat  it  up,  and  add  another  spoonful,  and  so  continue 
until  as  much  water  is  added  as  is  needed ;  when  all  the  water  is  in, 
hold  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  moving  it  one  way  until  it  boils, 
after  which  set  it  where  it  will  gently  boil  a  moment  or  two.  It  is 
sometimes  made  with  sweet  milk. 

Browned  Butter. — Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan,  move 
it  over  the  fire  until  it  becomes  brown ;  sift  in  some  brown  flour,  or 
add  flour  without  browning,  and  stir  it  until  it  is  a  little  scorched. 

Caper  Sauce. — Add  to  drawn  or  creamed  butter,  capers  with  a 
little  of  their  vinegar ;  stir  constantly  until  the  sauce  boils,  and  dish 
immediately.    Nasturtiums  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 


INDEX 


PAGE 

Abscess  in  breast. 382 

Accidental  company,  how  to  treat 26 

Advice  to  young  housekeepers 1 

chambermaids 34 

cooks 32 

housekeepers 31 

husbands 27 

maids  of  ail  work 35 

nurse  maids 35 

Additional  receipts 414 

Ade,  currant 285 

lemon 284 

orange 284 

pineapple 285 

strawberry 285 

A-la-mode  beef 87 

dressing  for 71 

pork 92 

Almond  cake 183 

macaroons 199 

Alum  for  the  teeth 380 

Ambrosia 417 

Anthills 358 

Ants,  to  protect  from 359 

red,  to  entrap 359 

Antidotes  for  poisons 380 

arsenic 381 

antimony 381 

Anchovy  butter 81 

Annuals  for  fall  sowing 331 

that  will  not  bear  transplanting. . .  332 

sowed  in  hot  beds 332 

Aphis,  or  green  fly 354 

April,  work  for 367 

Apricots,  to  candy -. 192 

to  preserve , 253 

Apples 229 

autumn 229 

butter 231 

boiled  or  steamed 234 

baked 234 

baked,  sweet 234 

borer 355 

cider 230 

cider,  boiled 231 

cider,  apple-sauce 231 

cook,  dried  apples 231 

crab-apple  jelly 233 

crab-apple  preserves . . .  233 

drying 231 


Apples  PAGB 

dumplings,  No.  1 233 

dumplings,  No.  2 149 

fritters 234 

gathering 229 

green 235 

hermetically  sealed  in  cans 23a 

hermetically  sealed  in  bottles 235 

jelly - 232 

late  winter  and  spring  use 229 

marmalade 232 

pie 234 

pudding 234 

pudding,  Boston  improved. .......  136 

pudding,  Berkshire 144 

pruning,  trees 327 

preserving  for  spring  shipments. . .  235 

planting,  trees 321 

remarks  on 329 

rice  dumpling 234 

summer  use 229 

sweetmeats 232 

tarts 234 

winter  late,  and  spring 229 

winter,  early  use 229 

worm '. 356 

wash  for  trees 329 

varieties 229 

vinegar 282 

Arranging  bouquets 334 

Arrow-root  gruel 391 

Artichokes,  to  cook 116 

to  preserve  through  winter 131 

Asparagus,  to  cook 116 

to  cultivate 317 

greens 116 

hermetically  sealed 117 

omelet 216 

soup 116 

select  at  market 54 

Bacon,  to  cure 362 

to  boil 92 

Bags  more  convenient  than  boxes 7 

Baked  Indian  pudding 148 

Baking  plates,  to  cleanse 404 

Bark  lice 355 

Barberries,  to  preserve 263 

Barley  coffee 395 

gruel 391 

griddle  cakes 188 


422 


INDEX. 


Barley  page  | 

for  infants. •.  384 

negus 394 

punch 395 

pearl 385 

water 394 

Basil  vinegar 294 

Batter  pudding,  plain  raised 140 

pudding,  boiled 149 

pudding,  baked 149 

Bath  for  fruits 268 

Beans,  to  cook 117 

to  cultivate 311 

lima 118 

pickled 300 

string,  to  preserve  for  winter 118 

"Windsor 118 

Beer 278 

bottled 278 

molasses 278 

mead 417 

spruce 278 

quick 415 

Beef,  a-la-mode 87 

corned 361 

corned,  to  use  cold 88 

corned,  dried,  to  prepare 361 

corned,  dried  to  preserve  soft 361 

dried,to  cook 90 

French 87 

general  directions  for  boiling  and 

roasting 84 

mock  venison  of  corned  beef 90 

roast,  remarks  on 86 

sirloin,  to  roast 86 

steak,  stewed,  No.  1 87 

steak,  stewed  brown 88 

fried 88 

gravy 88 

to  broil  rare 89 

to  suit  all 89 

fried,  to  resemble  broiling 91 

and  oysters  and  clams 90 

pie 90 

Beets,  to  cook 117 

to  preserve  for  winter 132 

select  at  market 55 

Berry  puddings 146 

Berkshire  puddings 144 

Bird's-nest  pudding : 145 

Bird-cages,  to  free  from  mites 410 

Biscuit  of  brewer's  yeast 164 

of  hops 163 

of  sour  milk. 165 

of  sour  cream 165 

soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  No.  1 164 

soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  No.  2. . . .  165 

Black  cake 178 

lace  veil  to  wash 400 

tissue  veil  to  renew 401 

crape,  to  remove  spots 401 

to  color 409 

tea 207 

berry  catsup 288 

berry  jelly 266 

berry,  hermetically  sealed 267 

berry  syrup 407 

berry  wine 278 

berry  brandy 280 

currant  jam 265 

currant  jelly. 266 


Black  pagh 

currant  brandy 280  > 

currant  wine 273 

raspberries  dried 270 

birds,  dressing  for 71 

Blankets,  to  wash 24 

Bleeding  nose 377 

Blanc-mange,  corn  starch, 148 

calves1  foot 138 

Mrs.L's 417 

isinglass 152 

fruit 136 

Bleaching  Fluid 403 

Board  for  shirt-bosoms 15 

for  skirts 14 

Bone,  to  remove  from  the  throat 381 

Borage  vinegar 294 

Box  hedges 239 

Boston  cake 173 

cream  cake,  genuine 187 

pudding,  improved 136 

Bombazines,  to  wash 23 

Boiled  bacon 92 

bass 76 

batter  puddings 149 

beef,  corned 85 

beef,  fresh 84 

beef,  remarks  on 84 

beets 117 

beans 117 

cabbage . 118 

cauliflower 119 

crab  cider 283 

cod's  head  and  shoulders 75 

cod,  salt 77 

eggs 74 

•    fish 74 

flour  pudding 416 

fancy  pudding,  rice 147 

fowls 108, 109 

geese 109 

ham,  salt * 91 

ham,  fresh. 96 

ham,  cold  to  serve 97 

indian  pudding , 416 

leg  of  lamb 101 

mutton  chops 102 

leg  of  mutton 102 

neck  of  mutton 102 

milk  for  coffee 210 

parsnips 125 

pike 76 

peas 127 

pork,  salt 91 

potatoes 128 

prairie  chicken 114 

rice  puddings 141, 147 

rabbit 113 

salmon,  fresh 76 

salmon,  salt 77 

sturgeon 77 

sea-fish 75 

shad 76 

turbot '; 77 

white  -fish 76 

Brandy  cherries 260 

cream 197 

from  fruits 279 

green  gages 251 

peaches 236 

plums 258 


INDEX. 


423 


Brandy  page 

sauces 72 

Brass  kettle,  to  clean 407 

Bread 159 

balls 226 

bran  yeast 163 

brewers1  yeast 1 62 

carroway 167 

dry  to  use 125 

fried '226 

fried  cakes 185 

French 165 

Graham 162 

griddle  cakes 125 

hop  yeast 160 

indian,  St.  John 417 

milk,  rising 169 

panada,  with  wine 393 

potato 168 

pumpkin 167 

pudding,  Mrs.  F.'s 148 

remarks  on 159 

rice 168 

rye 168 

rye  and  Indian 167 

sauce  for  poultry  and  game 69 

wheat  and  Indian 166 

Breakfast  tea,  to  prepare 207 

dishes 212 

Breast,  inflammation  of 382 

gathering 382 

of  veal,  to  carve 40 

of  veal  to  roast 103 

Bride's  cake 172 

Britannia,  to  keep  bright 399 

Broiled  beef. 89 

beef,  with  oysters  and  clams 90 

fish 79 

ham 95 

lamb  steaks 101 

mutton  chops 102 

oysters 82 

pork,  fresh 93 

pork,  salt 95 

Broiling  spider,  described 413 

Browning  coffee 203 

Brown,  to  color 409 

Broccoli,  to  cook 118 

to  cultivate 312 

Broken  cake  pudding 224 

Buckwheat  flour,  to  select 56 

cakes 189 

Buff,  to  color 409 

Bugs,  to  destroy 367 

Bulbs,  to  cultivate 334 

Buns 167 

Burn  Salve 374 

liniment 374 

quick  remedy 375 

salve,  whalers' 375 

Burnet  vinegar 274 

Butchers'  divisions  of  meats 37 

Butter,  browned 68, 420 

creamed 420 

clarified  67 

churned 363 

drawn 67 

preserved  for  winter 408 

oiled 68 

rancid,  to  restore 368 

rolled 420 


|  Butter  page 

peach 238 

prepared 363 

prepared  for  winter  use 364 


Cabbage,  early  York 118 

to  cultivate 311 

boiled 118 

boiled  with  meat 118 

hot  slaw 119 

cold 119 

to  pickle 303 

Cakes 169 

Cake  baking,  to  prepare  for 172 

almond. 183 

barley,  griddle 188 

Boston 173 

brides 172 

bread  fried 185 

Boston  cream,  genuine 187 

black 178 

buckwheat,  mock 188 

buckwheat,  quick 188 

buckwheat,  raised  No.  1 189 

buckwheat,  raised  No.  2 183 

chestnut 1 84 

cup  cake,  Mrs.  F.'s 174 

cookies,  Mrs.  Case,         No.  1 181 

soft 181 

Howe's 414 

winter,  No.  2 182 

winter,  No.  3 182 

rich,  No.  4 1S2 

pound,  No.  5 182 

New  Tear's,  No.  6 182 

German  New  Years 181 

cream  cake,  Boston 1S7 

cream  drop 187 

cream  cakes 172 

griddles,  No.  4 188 

chocolate,  soft 183 

hard 183 

corn  starch  cup .*  172 

corn  cakes,  Mrs.  Webster's 416 

clay 177 

crullers,  Mrs.  F 184 

crumpets 16S 

Carolina  cake 173 

cocoanut  cakes 416 

coffee 185 

cream  cakes 418 

children's  loaf 179 

composition 190 

delicate,  No.  1 174 

No.  2 174 

soda,  No.  3 174 

cup,  No.  4 174 

cup,  Mrs.  F.'s 173 

eggs,  to  beat 171 

fried,  plain 184 

fried,  Mrs.  W.'s  superior 190 

rich 184 

without  eggs  and  milk 185 

fritters ISo 

fruit  cup  cake,  Mrs.  F 177 

fruit,  rich 178 

federal 180 

German  pepper  nuts 177 

cornucopia 177 

ladies'  fingers 177 


424 


INDEX. 


Cake,  German  page 

steamed  nendles.. . 166 

raised  waffles 186 

"waffles,  rich 186 

soft  chocolate 1S3 

ginger  bread,  No.    1 170 

cake,  No.    2 170 

cake,  No.    3 170 

bread,  superior,         No.    4 170 

Mrs.  L.,  No.    5....  170 

hard,  No.    6....  170 

Mrs.  TV.,        No.    7....  171 
hard,  No.    8....  171 

soft,  Mrs.  F.  No.    9....  171 
soft,  No.  10....  171 

snaps 171 

griddle  cakes,  Indian,  without  milk  1S9 

raised  buckwheat,  No.  1 189 

raised  buckwheat,  No.  2 189 

quick  buckwheat 189 

mock  buckwheat 188 

indian  meal,  without  milk  ....  189 

Graham 189 

lice 188 

barley 188 

sweet  milk,    No.  1 187 

sour  milk,       No.  2 188 

very  nice,       No.  3 188 

cream,  No.  4 188 

hard  German  chocolate 183 

Harrison,  Mrs.  F 180 

hoe  cake 168 

indian  muffins 168 

jelly 181 

jumbles,  pound,  No.  2 183 

johnny,  No.  1 189 

johnny,  No.  2 189 

kisses,  Mrs.  Dey's 418 

soft  jumbles 417 

ladies1  finders 176 

loaf,  Mrs.  & 179 

molasses  cakes,  remarks 169 

marmalade 180 

tnuffins,  Mrs.  W. . . 187 

muffins,  Mrs.  L 416 

Madison 1 80 

pound,  Mrs.  F.,  No.  1 173 

No.2 173 

quick,  loaf 179 

rusk,  Mrs.  L.'s 417 

soda,  rich,    No.  1 174 

yellow,  No.  2 175 

No.  3 175 

No.  4 175 

strawberry 181 

sponge,     "  No.  1 175 

Mrs.  P.,  No.  2 176 

excellent,       No.  3 176 

arrow  root,    No.  4 176 

convenient,  No.  5 175 

drop 183 

Sally  Lunn 187 

tea,  very  plain 173 

thanksgiving 180 

vanities 185 

white 173 

white,  cup 174 

white  mountain 177 

wedding,  1818 179 

Washington 180 

waffle,  pound 186 


Cake,  German  pagh 

plain 186 

good 186 

American  raised 186 

Cake,  French  method  of  icing. 198 

to  prepare  for  icing 198 

Candy  apricots 192 

greengages 192 

ice  cream 194 

maple  sugar 193 

molasses 193 

nectarines 192 

plums 192 

Calves1  brains 106 

head  to  boil 105 

light  and  liver 106 

feet  and  ears 106 

kidney 106 

foot  jelly  dessert 137 

blanc  mange 138 

Canvas-back  Ducks  to  truss 107 

to  roast 112 

Candying  syrups 191 

Carving 37 

butchers1  divisions  of  meats 37 

breast  of  veal 40 

cod's  head 42 

divisions  of  meats 37 

eels 42 

fillet  of  veal 40 

forequarter  lamb 40 

fowl 41 

fish 42 

fish,  baked 42 

fish  pan 42 

haddock. 42 

ham 40 

haunch  of  venison 39 

hare  or  rabbit 41 

leg  of  mutton 39 

leg  of  Iamb ". 40 

loin  of  veal 39 

mackerel 42 

mutton,  leg  of 39 

paddle  of 39 

shoulder  of 39 

partridge 41 

pidgeon  and  quail 41 

roast  beef. .-. .     38 

roast  pig , .    40 

saddle  of  mutton 39 

shoulder  of  mutton. 39 

salmon 42 

soup  to  serve 42 

turkey  or  goose 41 

tongue 40 

turbot 42 

veal  fillet 40 

veal  loin 39 

Camphor,  spirits 399 

Canker  sore  mouth 390 

Carpet,  to  protect  from  moths 404 

to  shake 405 

to  scour 402 

remove  soil  from 403 

Caterpillars 356 

on  gooseberries 358 

Catsup 286 

blackberry. 288 

celery 287 

cherry - 288 


INDEX. 


425 


Catsup  PAGE 

cucumber 2S9 

gooseberry 2S8 

grape 288 

mutton  chop, 287 

mushroom 2S6 

oyster 287 

plum 287 

peach 287 

rasDberry 288 

tomato 289 

walnut,  No.  1 286 

No.2 2S7 

whortleberry 289 

Cauliflower,  to  cook 119 

to  pickle 305 

to  cultivate 315 

Carrots,  to  cook 119 

to  pickle 308 

to  cultivate 313 

Cassarole  of  fish 331 

Cement  for  jars 399 

Cellar,  to  cleanse 367 

Celery,  to  use 119 

preserved  for  winter 132 

to  grow 312 

for  the  aged 292 

Chintz,  with  red  grounds  to  wash. 20 

■with  brown 20 

with  green 19 

Chops,  mutton,  broiled 102 

Chambermaid,  advice  to 34 

Charlotte  Eusse,  No.  1 135 

No.  2 136 

No.3 136 

fruit 136 

Chocolate  mill 413 

Chocolate 210-211 

Chilblains,  to  cure 376 

Cheese . .  364 

Cherries 257 

Cherry  brandy 2S0 

Cherries — 

Black  Hawk,  to  preserve 258 

dried,  No.  1 262 

No.  2 263 

dried,  to  cook 263 

duke  and  Morella,  to  preserve 259 

fancy  preserves 258 

history  of 257 

hermetically  seal,  natural  preserv- 
ers, in  bottles,  No.  1 259 

No.  2 250 

hermetically  seal  for  pies,  in  glass.  261 

in  cans 262 

for  table 262 

pickled,  No.  1 260 

No.  2 261 

No.  3 261 

No.  4 261 

pie 263 

pie  from  can  fruit 263 

pudding,  No.  1 145 

No.  2 146 

trees  to  plant,  remarks 321 

vinegar 281 

varieties 257 

Chickens,  to  fricassee 115 

pie  and  pot-pie 115 

tea * 397 

quickly  to  dress 396 


|  Chicken  pagb 

salads 119,  390 

Cocoa  kisses 194 

Cocoanut  cake 416 

Cocoa  snow 135 

whips 152 

flummery 152 

cream 137 

cakes . .- 190 

custard 416 

pudding 143 

Comfits 194 

candying 192 

Coffee  cream 211 

Coffee  cream  ice 197 

Coffee 207 

aroma  preserved 208 

cream,  mock,  for 211 

browned 208 

boiling 209 

boilers,  care  of 211 

description  of  plant 207 

egg  in  milk  for 210 

mixing 209 

proportion  for  an  extra  cup 210 

preparation  for  market 207 

remarks 210 

storing 209 

sugar  for 210 

serve 210 

varieties 208 

Cork  broken  to  remove 399 

Cow,  to  milk,  etc 362 

Confectionery,  chapter  on 190 

Counterpane,  to  wash .• 24 

Cotton  sheets,  to  iron 24 

Corned  beef  hash 217 

Codfish  hash 218 

balls 219 

toast 214 

picked  up 80 

salt  to  boil 77 

tongues  and  sounds , ....    78 

head  and  shoulders 75 

Cordials  and  extracts 283 

of  lemon 283 

of  carroway 283 

Corn,  to  cook 120 

cakes,  green 121 

muffins 121 

jjysters 121 

and  beans,  succotash 121 

dried,  to  prepare  to  cook. 121 

dried,  to  cook 122 

hermetically  sealed 122 

to  dry  for  winter  use 122 

sweet,  to  cultivate 316 

worm 351 

Cockchafer 351 

Cockroaches 359 

Cook,  advice  to 32 

Cranberry  jelly  and  jam 270 

pies  and  tarts 15S 

stewed 270 

preserved  for  winter * 

Cream  ice,  to  freeze 195 

brandy,  a  dessert  of  1818. 197 

whipped. 151 

of  nectar 283 

custard. 151 

orange 283 


426 


INDEX. 


Cream  ice  page 

cake 172 

drop 187 

Boston,  genuine 187 

griddle  cakes 188 

dinner  creams 136 

snow 158 

toast 213 

to  prevent  rising 410 

Crackers,  Mrs.  Dicson's 415 

Mrs.P.'s 169 

Crabs 75 

Crayfish 83 

Curing  meats 360 

beef,  corned 361 

bacon 362 

ham 360 

pork 362 

Curtains,  lace,  etc.,  to  wash 23 

Custard,  boiled 150 

thickened 150 

baked 150 

frozen 197 

and  whey 150 

and  cream 151 

Cucumbers,  to  buy 54 

to  cultivate 313 

catsup 289 

to  green,  with  grape  leaves 305 

to  fry,  etc 123 

to  grow  in  hot  beds 345 

pickled 297 

spiced,  No.  1 298 

spiced,  No.  2 298 

spiced,  No.  3 299 

summer 299 

sugar,  sour 299 

sugar,  sweet 300 

in  whiskey 300 

ripe 300 

salad  for  the  aged 291 

and  cabbage 292 

to  select 54 

vinegar 293 

Cutlets  of  lamb 102 

of  veal 104 

offish 81 

Cutworm 350 

Curculio 357 

Currant-borer 357 

Currants,  dried 270 

Currant  jam 264 

jelly : 264 

hermetically  sealed 267 

pies 157 

Curled  cress,  to  dress 120 

to  grow 315 

Cultivation  of  fruit  garden 319 

of  flower  garden 329 

asparagus 317 

beets 311 

beans 311 

broccoli 312 

cabbages 311 

cauliflowers 311 

celery 312 

cucumbers 313 

carrots 315 

corn,  sweet 316 

double  curled  parsley 310 

egg-plant 315 


|  Cultivation  of  page 

herbs , 814 

horseradish 315 

lettuces 315 

manuring 308 

melons 313 

nasturtiums 314 

onions 310 

okra 315 

peas 310 

parsley 310 

parsnips 310 

peppergrass  or  cress 315 

potatoes,  early "316 

sweet 317 

remarks  on 306 

radishes 315 

rhubarb 317 

salsify 311 

sweet  corn 316 

spinach 310 

tomatoes 846 

Dairy  work 360 

Damask,  to  iron 248 

Damsons,  to  preserve 248 

Delaines,  printed,  to  wash .'    18 

plain,  to  wash 19 

scarlet,  to  wash 20 

Delicate-colored  merino 19 

Dicson's,  Mrs.,  crackers 415 

Diarrhoea 376 

of  infants 387 

Description  of  coffee  tree 207 

of  tea-plant 204 

of  chocolate  mill 413 

Dinner-parties 24 

desserts 150 

of  quinces 247 

creams 136 

cold,  arranged 226 

Dishes,  washed 6 

Discoloration  by  bruises  removed 378 

Dipped  butter  toast 214 

Directions  for  carving 37 

cooking  generally 58 

cakes 169 

catsups 286 

chocolate 209 

coffee 207 

cordials 283 

creams  and  confectioneries. . . .  190 

cold  dinners 226 

infants 383 

cooking  for  invalids 391 

cultivating  fruit 319 

"         flowers 329 

"         vegetables 306 

cooking  vegetables 116 

curing  meats 360 

cooking  beef. 84 

biscuitand  bread 159 

breakfasts 212 

brandies  from  fruits 279 

dairy  work 360 

dinner  desserts 133 

"      parties 24 

economy  dishes 223 

eggs 219 

entertaining  visitors 24 

extracts 283 


INDEX. 


427 


Directions  for  page 

fruit  garden 319 

flowers..., 329 

fish 74 

furnishing  a  house 1 

gravies 67 

game 106 

hashes 217 

hot-beds 343 

to  husbands 27 

kitchen  furniture 1 

"        garden 306 

lamb 100 

management  of  servants .  .• 4 

marketing 51 

mutton 100 

pastry  and  pies 153 

pickling 296 

pork 91 

poultry 106 

puddings 133 

preservation      of      vegetables 

through  -winter 116 

preserving  apples 229 

"         cherries 257 

"         peaches. 236 

"         pears 244 

"         plums 248 

"         quinces 247 

salads 289 

sauces 71 

servants 31 

sick-room 371 

soups , 58 

small  fruits,  preserving 263 

spring  work 367 

tea..". 207 

venison 100 

vinegars 281 

flavored 292 

washing,  ironing,  etc 12 

wines  and  beer 272 

Down,  to  wash 405 

Doeskin,  to  wash 402 

Duck,  canvas-back,  to  truss 107 

wild,  to  tjuss 107 

canvas-back,  to  roast 112 

wild,  to  roast 112 

Draining  land  for  gardens 307 

Drab,  to  color 409 

Drawn  butter 67 

Dress  chickens  quickly 396 

of  servants 36 

Dressing  for  a-la-mode  beef Tl 

beef,  a-la-mode 71 

blackbirds 71 ' 

boiled  pigeons 71 

"      turkey 70 

duck 70 

fish 70 

fowls «. .     70 

fowls  for  market 106 

for  partridges 71 

pigeons "  71 

pigs 70 

quails 71 

turkeys 70 

salad,  common  No.  1 290 

"     very  fine  No.  2 . . . '. 291 

"     without  eggs,  No.  3 291 

"     sweet,No.4 291 


Dressing  pagb 
infants 383 

Dried  beef,  to  cure 361 

apples. 231 

cherries 262 

corn,  to  cook 122 

to  prepare  for  succotash 121 

to  prepare  for  winter 122 

currants 122 

blackberries  267 

fruits,  care  of 367 

berries 56 

peaches 239 

plums 256 

quinces 248 

raspberries 270 

strawberries 270 

whortleberries 270 

Dye  brown 409 

black 409 

blue 409 

buff 409 

drab 408 

green 409 

peach  leaves,  with 410 

scarlet 410 

yellow 409 

Dysentery,  cure  for 376 

receipt  for 376 

or  diarrhoea 376 

Dyspeptic  lye 383 

Ear-ache  of  infants 390 

Economy 7 

dishes 223 

in  cooking  well 7 

cheerfulness 8 

small  matters 9 

Edging  or  thread  lace,  to  wash 22 

Eggs 219 

boil 221 

breakfast  dish 215 

closing  the  pores  of  shells  with  hot 

water 220 

considered  as  food 221 

cooked  whole : 223 

English  rule  for  preserving. 220 

fried  hard ; 222 

soft 221 

grease  removed  by  yolks  of 18 

of  insects,  to  destroy 367 

Italian  method 223 

mass,  cooked  in 223 

mulled  in  wine  and  water 392 

nog 285 

mulled  in  tea  and  coffee 392 

raw  in  milk 393 

and  milk 393 

omelet,  hard 222 

soft 222 

puff,  Mrs.  Hunt's. 414 

souffle 222 

pack 221 

poached 222 

preserved  for  winter  use 220 

plant,  cultivated 315 

cooked 123 

cold,  to  use 225 

selection  at  market 54 

shells  useful 223 

selected  fresh 219 


428 


INDEX. 


Eggs  PAGE 

scambled 232 

sauce  lor  fish 69 

puddings 73 

toast 212 

for  invalids 395 

used  to  remove  grease 18 

whole,  cooked  in  a  mass 223 

Eels  broil 80 

fry 79 

general  directions 78 

to  select . 54 

soup 61 

to  select 54 

Elderberry  syrup 406 

wine,  spiced 273 

flowers,  wine 415 

Elegantly  preserved  peaches 241 

Elements  of   food    necessary  for   the 

family 47 

Embroideries,  to  wash,  starch,  and  iron    21 

Embroidered  curtains,  to  wash 23 

Enamelled  kettles 407 

Entertainment  of  company 24 

English  plum  puddings 143, 144 

Eruptions  of  infants. T 390 

Evening  parties 26 

Excuses  for  the  housekeeper 31 

Extracts  and  cordials .\ 283 

of  celery 284 

lemon 284 

"     peel 284 

nectarines 284 

orange  peel 284 

peaches 284 

roses , 284 

sage 284 

Family  bed-room 3 

Fancy  dinner  desserts 150 

jellies 195 

rice  boiler 147 

Fault-finding 30 

Feathers  colored,  to  cleanse 403 

to  renew 404 

Felon,  to  cure 382 

Figs,  to  select 57 

Fillet  of  veal,  to  boil 103 

to  roast 103 

Fish 74 

anchovy  butter 81 

bake  a  large  fish  whole 78 

boil,  general  directions 74 

broil,  general  directions 79 

clean 74 

cod  fish,  picked  up 80 

cod  fish,  salt,  to  boil 77 

cod,  tongues  and  sounds,  to  boil. . .     78 
cod,  head  and  shoulders,  to  boil. . .     75 

cod,  to  select 53 

crabs,  to  boil 75 

crabs,  to  select 53 

casserole  of  fish 81 

croquette  of  fish 81 

cutlets 81 

clams,  to  fry  with  eggs  and  crackers    85 

clams,  stewed . 85 

clams,  scalloped 416 

clams,  hashed 83 

clams,  hard-shelled,  to  boil 82 

cray  fish,  to  cook. 83 


Fish  pagh 

cray  fish,  to  select 54 

eels,  to  fry 79 

eels,  to  select 54 

eels,  to  broil 80 

fresh- water  fish,  to  select 53 

fry,  general  directions 78 

halibut,  to  select 54 

kedgeree  offish 81 

kettle  described 413 

lobsters,  to  roast 78 

"       to  boil 75 

"       to  dress 83 

"       balls 84 

"       patties 84 

mackerel,  fresh,  to  fry 79 

fresh,  to  broil 80 

to  boil 75 

salt,  to  soak 80 

to  broil 80 

to  boil 7T 

muscles,  stewed 83 

oysters,  to  fry 82 

to  broil 82 

to  stew.  •• 82 

scalloped 82 

patties 82 

pies 82 

scalloped,  Mrs.  "W 81 

prawns  and  shrimps,  to  select 53 

perch,  to  select 54 

pike,  boiled 76 

to  select 54 

rock  bass  and  small  fish,  to  fry 79 

rock  fish  and  bass,  to  boil 76 

shad,  fresh,  to  bake 78 

to  fry 79 

toboil 76 

salt,  to  boil 77 

salmon,  fresh,  to  boil 76 

salt,  to  boil 77 

to  select 53 

sturgeon,  fresh,  to  boil 77 

seal  fish,  fresh,  to  boil 75 

soak,  salt  fish 80 

scalloped  fish 81 

soused,  fish 81 

sandwiches. ."    81 

scallops,  to  cook 83 

sprawns,  to  cook 83 

shrimps,  to  cook 83 

turtle,  stewed 83 

to  select 54 

patties 83 

trout,  to  fry 79 

to  select 53 

turbot,  to  boil 77 

to  select 53 

white  fish,  toboil 76 

to  broil 80 

Flat  irons 408 

Fourth  of  July  pudding 139 

Flannel,  to  wash 17 

Flavored  vinegars 286 

Flax-seed  jelly,  for  coughs 378 

Fleas .' 359 

Flies 359 

Flour,  buckwheat,  to  select 56 

gruel 391 

puddings,  baked 134 

pudding  boiled 416 


INDEX. 


429 


Flour  tage 

wheat,  to  select 56 

Flowers  of  elderberry  wine . .  *. 415 

garden 329 

Floating  islands 150 

Floor,  to  remove  oil  from 399 

Flummery  of  cocoa-nuts 152 

Fowls 106 

to  bake 110 

to  boil 108 

to  boil 109 

dressed  for  market 196 

dressing  for 70 

cold,  to  use 223 

to  fry 115 

to  roast 110 

to  truss 106 

to  select 52 

Fresh-water  fish,  to  select  58 

French  bread 165 

French  method  of  candying  fruit 192 

icing  cake 198 

preserving  apricots 253 

Fried  apples 94 

beef 88 

bread 226 

chops 101 

chickens 115 

cucumbers 123 

eggs,  hard 222 

soft 221 

with  oysters 215 

fish 74 

ham \ 95 

lamb  chops 101 

mutton  chops .- 102 

oysters 82 

with  egg 215 

onions . 125 

parsnips 126 

potatoes 128 

pork,  fresh 93 

salt,  plain 94 

superior 95 

salsify 130 

vegetable  oyster 130 

Fritters 185 

apple 234 

egg  plant 123 

turnip 126 

Fricassee  of  chicken,  brown 115 

"  white 116 

veal 104 

parsnips 126 

potatoes 129 

Frost-bitten  hands  and  feet 382 

salve 375 

Wahlers 375 

Frozen  creams 195 

fruits 198 

jellies 195 

Fruit  ades 284 

bath  for  preserving 268 

brandies 277 

blanc-manges 136 

catsups , .  286 

candied 192 

coblers 394 

cultivated 319 

dried  to  protect  from  vermin 270 

eggs  of  insects  in,  dried  to  destroy..  367 


Fruit  pagb 

frozen 198 

garden 319 

gathering  apples 229 

stains  to  remove  from  hands 398 

hermetically  sealed  apples 235 

sealed  berries 267 

cherries 259-262 

currants 267 

peaches 241-243 

pears 246 

plums 250-256 

pineapple 200-201 

raspberries 267 

quinces 247 

smalL 268 

stains  removed  from  hands  398 

strawberries 270 

tomatoes 131 

whortleberries 268 

trees 321 

insects  injurious  to 349 

manure  for 322 

planti  ng 321 

pruning 327- 

pudding  bread 140 

vinegars 281 

stains  to  remove  from  hands 398 

"  from  linen 402 

Furniture,  to  cleanse 399 

to  remove  spots  from 399 

Fur,  to  cut  and  sew 405 

to  protect  from  moths 358 

Game,  to  truss 106 

black-birds  to  roast 112 

to  truss 107 

duck  to  roast 112 

to  truss 107 

hare  and  rabbit  to  roast Ill 

to  truss 107 

moor  fowl  to  roast Ill 

to  truss 107 

partridges  to  boil. 114 

to  roast 114 

to  truss 107 

pheasant  to  broil 114 

to  roast Ill 

pigeon  to  roast 110 

pie 114 

to  truss 107 

prairie  chicken  to  broil 114 

to  roast 112 

quail  to  broil 114 

pie 114 

to  roast 113 

reed  birds  to  truss 108 

small  birds  to  roast 112 

snipe  to  roast . .  112 

widgeons  and  teals  to  roast 113 

woodcocks  to  roast Ill 

Garden  fruit 319 

flowers 329 

vegetables 306 

Garlic  vinegar 293 

Geese  to  boil 109 

to  roast HI 

to  truss 108 

Gelatine,  to  prepare 398 

General  directions  for  cookery 3 


430 


INDEX. 


General  directions  page 

house  work 6 

German  cherry  sauce  for  puddings 70 

cookies,  New  Year's 181 

chocolate 211 

cakes  hard 183 

soft 183 

pepper  nuts 177 

cornucopia  cakes 177 

ladies'  fingers 177 

steamed  neudles 1C6 

waffles 186 

sponge  for  invalids 396 

Giblet  sauce 70 

Gilt  frames,  to  preserve 405 

Gingham,  to  wash 21 

Gingerbread 170, 171 

Gingerbread  pudding. 146 

Ginger  green 201 

wine 275 

wine,  excellent 277 

vinegar 295 

Glass  stopper  to  remove 406 

Gloves,  wet  to  save 402 

Goosberries 324 

caterpillar 356 

catsup 288 

jelly 266 

sauce  for  lamb 69 

tarts 158 

mildew 325 

wine 275 

Graham  rice  flour  pudding 142 

flour  to  select 56 

pudding  raised 141 

Gravies  and  sauces 67 

for  beef  roasts 68 

steaks  etc 68 

lamb 68 

mutton 68 

veal.. 68 

venison 68 

Gravy  pot  described 413 

Grease,  to  remove  from  book  covers. . .  406 

to  cleanse 419 

Green  corn,  to  select 54 

Greens,  asparagus 116 

mustard 124 

Green  to  color , 409 

Green  fly  or  aphis 354 

gages  to  candy 192 

ginger  to  preserve 201 

gages  to  preserve  in  brandy 251 

tomatoes  preserved 202 

tea,  to  choose 205 

Greening  pickles  without  alum 305 

Gherkins  pickled 297 

Gridiron 407 

Griddle  to  clean 407 

Gruel  arrow  root 391 

barley 391 

flour 391 

Indian  meal 391 

rice 391 

Grubs 334 

Hair  brushes,  to  cleanse 404 

to  prevent  falling  out 882 

Hall  furniture 2 

Halibut 

to  select 54 


Ham  pagb 

boiled,  salt 91 

fresh 96 

carved 40 

cold  served 47 

cured 360 

baked 92 

broiled 95 

fried 95 

protector  from  vermin 861 

Hands,  chapped 375 

to  remove  fruit  stains 398 

Hardy  biennials 342 

climbing  roses 340 

perpetual  roses 341 

twining  plants 339 

Hares  and  rabbits,  to  cook Ill 

to  truss 108 

Hashes 217 

beef,  fresh ** 218 

browned 217 

balls  of  corned  beef 217 

calf  s  head 105 

corned  beef. 217 

cod  fish 218 

balls 219 

fish  hash 218 

fresh  beef. 218 

meats  with  toast 218 

pork 218 

pork  and  parsnips 218 

"        and  potatoes. . . .  218 

Hat,  to  protect  from  dust 404 

Heavy  plum  pudding,  to  use 224 

Hearth  rugs,  to  cleanse 403 

Hens,  to  make  lay  in  winter 410 

Herbaceous  climbers 339 

Herb  or  root  teas 897 

Hermetically  sealed  and  cooked  apples.  229 
"  cherries. ..  257 
"  peaches  . . .  236 

"  pears 244* 

"  plums 248 

"  quinces  . . .  247 
"  small  fruit.  263 

Hints  on  cultivating  flowers 330 

Hiccough 379 

Honey-suckles 338 

Horse  radish 291 

vinegar 295 

Hop  "      295 

Hot  bed 343 

House  cleaning 405 

general 370 

House,  to  select  and  furnish 2 

Hyacinth 335 

Hybrid  Chinese  roses 341 

Ice  cream,  directions  for 195 

candy 194 

flavored  with  coffee  .^ 197 

"     chocolate 197 

oranges 198 

strawberries 198 

thickened  with  arrow-root 196 

superior 196 

without  cream 196 

quick 197 

Mrs.  A.'s 197 

puddings 142 

Iced  jellies 195 


INDEX. 


431 


Iced  page 

fruits 198 

Ices,  water,  of  fruits 198 

Icing,  cake  to  prepare  for 199 

common 198 

confectioneries 199 

French  method 198 

Mrs.  L.'s  frosting. 416 

India  muslins,  washed 14 

Indian  meal  gruel 391 

griddle  cakes 189 

bread,  St.  Charles 417 

and  rye  bread 167 

wheat  "     166 

pumpkin  bread 167 

hoe  cakes 168 

pudding,  boiled 418 

baked 148 

Johnny  cakes 189 

muffins 168 

Indelible  ink 406 

Infants,  care  of  from  birth  to  weaning.  3S3 

Injuries  from  falls  prevented 389 

Infantile  diseases 387 

canker,  sore  mouth 390 

convulsions 390 

diarrhoea 388 

eruptions 390 

measles 389 

red  gum 387 

worms 388 

whooping  cough 389 

vomiting 388 

Ink,  blue 406 

red. 406 

indelible 406 

spots,  to  remove 400 

Ironing  generally 14 

Iron  mould,  to  remove 402 

ware 407 

Iron  pots,  to  mend 408 

ware  not  in  general  use 407 

described 412 

Insects,  injurious  to  gardens 349 

troublesome  to  housekeepers 349 

ant-hills 358 

ants,  to  protect  from 359 

red,  to  entrap 359 

apple-borer 355 

worm 356 

aphis,  or  green  fly 354 

bark-lice 355 

bed-bugs 358 

cut-worm 350 

caterpillar 356 

canker-worm 356 

curculio 357 

currant-borer 357 

caterpillar  on  gooseberries 358 

crickets 358 

cockchafer 351 

cockroach 359 

egg  of,  in  dried  fruit,  to  kill . , .  367 

fleas 359 

flies,  to  destroy 359 

grape-worm 358 

list  of 349 

May-bug,  larva  of t .  351 

mosquitoes 359 

moths 358 

peach-borer 356 


Insects,  pagh 

radish-maggot 353 

rose-bug 355 

remarks 349 

raspberry  borer 358 

red  ants 359 

rats 359 

strawberry-worm 353 

striped  bug 353 

squash 353 

scaly  aphis 355 

spiders 359 

tomato-worm. 352 

wire-worm 351 

Invalid's  cookery 391 

arrow-root  gruel 391 

barley-gruel 391 

milk 392 

water 394 

negus 394 

punch 395 

or  corn  coffee 395 

bread  panada,  with  wine 393 

beef-tea 397 

caudle 392 

cream-toast 395 

cakes 396 

chicken,  to  dress  quickly 396 

tea,  to  make 397 

and  meat  broths 397 

drinks  for  an  invalid 393 

egg  mulled  in  wine  or  water 392 

raw,  and  wine 393 

raw,  and  milk 393 

mulled  with  milk 393 

and  toast 395 

extract  of  meat,  No.  1 397  • 

No.2 397 

flour  gruel 391 

fruit  ades 394 

vinegars 395 

oObblers 394 

ground  rice  milk 392 

griddle  cakes 396 

German  sponge 396 

herb  or  root  teas 397 

Indian  meal  gruel 391 

jelly  wine 392 

of  rice  or  tapioca 396 

lemon-water 393 

whey 394 

milk  porridge 391 

and  wine 392 

meat  and  bread  panada 393 

milk  whey 394 

molasses  toast 395 

mulled  egg  in  tea  or  coffee 392 

nitre  whey 394 

neudle  pudding,  German 396 

soup 395 

oatmeal  grueL 391 

punch 395 

pudding 396 

rice-flour  gruel 391 

jelly 392 

raspberry  and  strawberry  vinegar.  395 

rusk  of  barley  or  corn 395 

sago-milk 392 

sago  or  tapioca,  to  cook 392 

sherry  cobbler 394 

toast-water 893 


432 


INDEX. 


Invalid's  PAGE 

wine  jelly 892 

■whey 894 

whey,  Mrs.  L 415 

Italian  method  of  cooking  eggs 223 

Ivory,  to  clean 408 

Jams,  currant,  black 265 

red 264 

grape 265 

cranberry 270 

plum 256 

peach 238 

hermetically  sealed 242 

No.2 242 

raspberry 266 

strawberry 269 

Jellies,  apple 232 

cake 181 

crab 233 

pine ' 201 

blackberry 266 

currant,  black 266 

cranberry , 270 

currant  red 264 

calves1  foot 137 

crab  apple 233 

flummery 151 

frozen 195 

fancy 175 

and  whips 152 

grape 265 

gooseberry. .' 266 

peach 238 

quince 248 

raspberry 266 

rice 392 

small  fruits 263,  271 

tapioca 392 

whortleberry 266 

wine 392 

Johnny  cakes 189 

Jumbles 183 

pound 1 83 

soft 417 

Kettle,  enameled 407 

Kid  gloves,  to  cleanse 402 

Kitchen  furniture 2 

Kisses,  very  nice  by  long  beating 194 

to  make  quickly 194 

cocoa 194 

jelly 195 

orange 194 

pineapple 194 

pyramid  of 195 

Miss  Dey's 418 

Knives,  to  take  care  of 7 

Lace  veil,  black,  to  wash 400 

to  wash 400 

Lard 97 

Lamb  chops,  fried 101 

cutlets 102 

quarter,  roasted 101 

selected 51 

steaks,  broiled 101 

Late  winter  and  spring  apples 229 

Leason,  to  make 67 

Leather  peach,  to  prepare 239 

plum,  to  prepare 256 


Leg  of  PAGE 

lamb,  boiled 101 

carved 40 

mutton,  boiled 102 

carved 89 

Lettuce,  dressed 124 

grown 315 

hot  b»ds 347 

salads 289, 290 

selected 55 

Lemonade , 284 

7  ?mon  cordial 283 

cakes 195 

extract 284 

drops 193 

macaroons 199 

puffs 190 

pears 246 

water 393 

whey 394 

Lights,  calves « 106 

Liver,        "     106 

Lip  salve  378 

List  of  annual  flowers  that  bear  trans- 
planting.   331 

of  annual  flowers  that  will  not  bear 

transplanting 832 

of  annual  flowers  for  hot  beds 332 

hardy  flowering  shrubs 339 

twining  plants 339 

annual  climbers 340 

roses 340 

climbing  roses 340 

hybrid  Chinese  roses 341 

hardy  perpetual    "  341 

Bourbon 342 

noisettes 342 

hardy  biennials,  plant 342 

perennials 343 

kitchen  furniture . . . 411 

Lobster  balls 84 

dressed $3 

patties 84 

selection 53 

soup 61 

sauce : 69 

salad 291 

Lunches,  prepared . 228 

Macaroni 419 

toast 419 

soup 67 

Macaroons,  common 191 

almond 199 

lemon 197 

orange 199 

vanilla 199 

Mackerel,  boiled •. . .  75 

broiled  fresh 80 

carved 42 

salted 77 

soaked 80 

broiled 80 

and  herring  selected  at  market. ...  53 

Madison  bake 180 

Maids,  chamber 34 

all  work 35 

laundry 34 

nurse 35 

Malignant  sore  throat. 308 

Mangoes,  peach 304 


Mangoes,  page 

pepper 314 

melon 301 

and  pickles 296 

Manuring  gardens 308 

Maple  sugar  candy 193 

syrup  for  puddings 72 

March,  work  for 36T 

Marjoram  vinegar 294 

Marketing 51 

asparagus,  to  select 54 

beans,  to  select 54 

buckwheat  flour,  to  select 56 

bulls  head 54 

beets 55 

beef 51 

blackbirds 53 

black  tea 56 

cabbage 54 

cauliflower 54 

corn,  green 54 

carrots 54 

cucumbers 54 

crab  and  cray  fish 53 

coffee,  to  choose 56 

ducks 52 

dried  fruit 56 

apples 57 

egg  plant,  to  select 54 

eels 54 

figs 57 

flour 56 

fresh  water  fish 53 

green  corn 54 

tea 56 

geese 52 

grapes 57 

Graham  flour 56 

hares  and  rabbits 53 

hallibut 54 

Indian  meal 56 

lamb 51 

lettuce 55 

lobster 53 

melons 55 

mackerel  and  herrings 53 

mutton 51 

oysters 53 

okra 55 

onions 55 

oranges 57 

pigeons 52 

partridges 52 

prairie  chickens 52 

pineapple 57 

prawns  and  shrimps 53 

pike 54 

perch 54 

parsley 55 

parsnips 55 

peas 55 

pork 51 

potatoes 55 

sweet 55 

poultry. 52 

quail 52 

rabbits 53 

rice 57 

raisins 56 

radishes 55 

tbubarb 55- 

19 


INDEX.  433 

Marketing,  page 

quails 52- 

sugar 56 

salsify 55 

string  beans 54 

spinach.  .4 55 

salmon 53 

squash 55 

'    tea,  to  choose 56 

trout 53 

turbot 53 

turtle 54 

tomatoes 56 

turnips 56 

turkeys 52 

veal  ." 51 

vegetables 54 

venison 52 

woodcocks *. 52 

Marteneas,  sweet,  pickled 301 

sour,  pickled. 301 

Marmalade,  apple 233 

cake 180 

orange 201 

peach 238 

pineapple 201 

quince 248 

Mashed  potatoes 123 

May-bug  or  beetle 351 

May,  work  for 369 

Medicines,  to  prepare 33 

Mead. 417 

Meal,  Indian,  gruel 391 

Measles 389 

Meats,  cured 360 

hashed  with  toast 218 

and  gristle  of  soups  used 223 

and  bread  panada  for  invalids 393 

tongs 41 2 

Melons,  to  grow 313 

mangoes 301 

mus£,  to  pickle  ripe 304 

small 304 

to  preserve  ripe 204 

nutmeg,  to  preserve 203 

Meringues,  strawberry 194 

Mercury,  antidote  for 380 

Milk,  barley  for  invalids 392 

boiled  for  coffee 210 

cure  of 362 

ground  rice  for  invalids 392 

mulled  -with  eggs 393 

punch,  common 285 

English 285 

porridge  for  invalids 391 


toast  No.  1 213 

No.2 213 

whey 394 

and  wine  for  invalids 392 

Mince  pies 153 

Minute  pudding,  nice - 147 

Mississippi  traveller 285 

Mixing  and  boiling  coffee 209 

Mock  cream  for  coffee 211 

toast 213 

turtle  soup 66 

venison  of  corned  beef 99 

Molasses  beer. 278 

candy 193 

toast  for  invalid* 213, 395 


434 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Morello  cherries,  preserved 259 

Mosquitoes 859 

Moths 858 

Muff,  to  preserve  the  fur  smooth 899 

Muffins,  Mrs.  W.'s 187 

corn 121 

Indian 168 

raised 416 

Mull  wine 285 

Mulled  egg  in  wine 392 

in  tea  and  coffee 392 

Mushroom  catsup 286 

Mushrooms,  pickled 303 

sauce 6> 

Musk  melons,  pickled  ripe 304 

mangoes 301 

small  pickled  304 

Muslins,  India,  with  fast  colors,  to  wash 

and  iron 15 

India,  doubtful,  with  fast  colors,  to 

wash  and  iron 16 

India,  to  wash  and  iron 17 

Swiss 17 

Mustard,  Greens  124 

mixed 291 

vinegar 293 

Mush,  to^make  of  Indian  meal •.  147 

Mutton  chops,  broiled 102 

fried 103 

Mutton — 

haunch  of,  roasted 102 

leg  of,  boiled 102 

carved 39 

loin  of,  stewed,  to  resemble  venison,  102 

neck  of 102 

saddle  of,  carved 39 

shoulder  of,  carved. 39 

selection  at  market 51 

soup 63 

Nastertinm,  grown 314 

pickled 304 

vinegar „ 293 

Natural  roast  goose Ill 

Necessary  furniture  for  the  house 2 

Necessity  of  system,  order,  etc 4 

Nectarines  and  apricots,  candied 192 

extract  of. 284 

preserved,      French 

method 253 

pickled 257 

trimmed,  etc 327 

Negus  of  Barley 394 

Nervous  affections 879 

head-aches 378 

Neudle  pudding  for  invalids,  German . .  396 
soup  "         "  "  395 

New  Year's  cookies 182 

German 181 

Nice  cold  dinners  prepared 266, 268 

lunches 268 

Nitrate  of  silver,  antidote  for 381 

Nitre  whey 394 

Nurse  maid 85 

Nutrition 43 

Nutmeg  melon,  preserved 203 

Okra,  or  gumbo  grown 315 

stewed 124 

soup 124 


PA6TB 

Okra,  selected 55 

Obstinate  cough,  to  break  up 879 

Orangeade 284 

Orange  cream,  iced 198 

abeverage 283 

cream 158 

and  cream  ambrosia 417 

custard,  Mrs.  W.'s 418 

extract 284 

kisses 194 

macaroons 199 

marmalade 201 

salad 418 

sauce 73 

Oranges,  selected 57 

Order  and  system  at  table,  etc 4 

Oysters  fried  with  eggs 215 

omelet 215 


pie 


patties 82 

toast 215 

soup  for  the  city 63 

country 63 

Mrs.  W.'s  superior  scalloped 81 

scalloped 82 

selected 53 

Omelets,  hard 222 

mushroom 216 

oyster 215 

soft 222 

souffle 222 

Mrs.  Hunt's 414 

Omelet  pan 413 

Onions  boiled 125 

fried . 125 

pickled 302 

with  tomatoes 303 

preserved  for  winter 133 

vinegar. 293 

Ointment  for  itch 379 

Oil,  to  remove  from  book  covers 406 

floors 399 

lamp  shades 399 

Ovens,  heated 161 

iron  bake  ovens 407 

Parsnip 125 

plain 125 

broiled 125 

cutlet 126 

fried 126 

fri  tters 126 

fricassee 126 

preserved  for  winter ; .  132 

Partridges,  dressing  for 71 

trussed. . .; 107 

selected 52 

Parsley,  preserved  for  winter. 125 

Pastry 153 

Pies,  custard 154 

Paste,  for  dumplings 156 

French  pastry 156 

plain 154 

puff,  to  prepare  for 153 

nice 154 

for  pumpkin  pies 154 

Patties,  oyster 82 

lobster 84 

Peaches 266 

brandy,  No.  1 279 


INDEX. 


435 


PAGE 

Peaches,  brandy,  No.  2 279 

brandy  peaches 236 

borer 356 

butter •••• 238 

dried,  with  sugar,  No.  1 239 

No.2 239 

common,  No.  3 239 

extract 2S4 

fresh,  hermetically  sealed,  No.  1. . .  243 

without  sugar,  No.  2...  244 

No.  3...  241 

in  cans,  No.  4...  243 

elegantly  preserved  in  bottles,  etc.  241 

water  ice 238 

jam 238 

jelly 238 

jam,  hermetically  sealed,  No.  I..,.  242 

No.2....  242 

leather 239 

mangoes k, 304 

marmalade 238 

preserved  in  sour  syrup 237 

plain  sauce 23T 

preserved,  rich 240 

hermetically  sealed 240 

natural 241 

very  plain 242 

elegantly  241 

pie 244 

pudding,  No.  1 244 

rich,  No.  2 244 

remarks 236 

sour,  spiced 237 

sweet,  spiced 237 

syrup,  brandy 239 

stewed,  dried 239 

trees,  to  plant 821 

pruned 327 

varieties  of 320 

vinegar 281 

water,  ice 238 

Peas 244 

boiled 244 

brandy 245 

baked,  hermetically  sealed 247 

ginger 245 

hermetically  sealed,  fresh. 246 

lemon 246 

plain,  boiled 244 

preserved 244 

pickled 246 

plain  preserves,  hermetically  sealed  246 

tiees,  to  plant 321 

pruned 327 

varieties  of 320 

vinegar ! 282 

Pickles  and  mangoes. 296 

Pickles — 

apricots „ . .  255 

beans 300 

with  grape  leaves 305 

cabbage,  red 303 

shred,  red  or  white 303 

cucumbers,  to  green,  with  grape 

leaves. . .- - 305 

gherkins,  or  prickly  cucumbers. . .  297 

greening,  without  alum  or  brass  305 

cherries,  part  5,  No.  1 260 

No.2 261 

No.3 261 


PAGH 

Pickles — cherries,  part  5,  No.  4. 261 

cauliflower 303 

cayenne  pepper 304 

carrots 305 

greening   cucumbers   with   grape 

leaves 305 

cucumbers 297 

ripe 300 

spiced,  No.  1 298 

No.2 288 

No.3 299 

summer  pickles 299 

in  sugar,  sour 299 

sweet 300 

in  whiskey 300 

peach  pickles,  part  5 237 

pear 246 

plum 254 

plum 255 

remarks 296 

mushroom 303 

marteneas,  or  mouse,  sour 801 

sweet.... 301 

melon,  small  melon  pickles 304 

mangoes 301 

muskmelon,  ripe 304 

nasturtium 304 

nectarines 255 

onions 302 

picalilly 303 

remarks  on  pickling 296 

red  cabbage 803 

pepper  mangoes 304 

peach  mangoes 304 

shred  cabbage 303 

tomato,  green 302 

ripe 302 

and  onions 303 

walnuts 302 

Pig,  roaster 97 

force  meat  for. 70 

feet,  pickled 97 

Pie,  beefsteak 90 

oyster 82 

pork 93 

pot,  chicken 115 

chicken 115 

quails 114 

Pigeons,  boiled 71 

dressing  for 71 

roasted 71 

dressing  for 71 

broiled 114 

curried 41 

roasted 114 

pie 114 

trussed 107 

Pike,  selected : 54 

Perch,  selected 54 

Pineapple,  best  method  of  preserving 

without  cooking 200 

fresh,  hermetically  sealed,  No.  1. . .  200 
No.2...  201 

jelly 201 

marmalade 201 

Pies 153 

apple 233 

blackberry 157 

cherry 263 

boiled,  salt 91 


436 


INDEX. 


Pies  page 

cream 157 

crackers 416 

cranberry 158 

custard 156 

currant. 157 

gooseberry 157 

lemon 158 

mince 158 

peach 244 

pumpkins 156 

rhubarb 158 

raspberry .• 157 

strawberry 158 

whortleberry 157 

Pig,  roasted 97 

sausages 97 

souse 97 

Pigs'  feet,  pickled 97 

headcheese 99 

Plums 248 

brandy 279 

brandied 251 

brandied,  French, 251 

family  preserve 251 

blue,  preserved 253 

candied 192 

catsup 287 

compote 250 

dry,  without  sugar 256 

with  sugar 256 

egg  plum,  hermetically  sealed  and 

preserved 252 

greengage,hermetically  sealed  No.  1  250 
No.  2  251 
No.  3  251 
hermetically   sealed   natural   pre- 
serves in  glass 255 

hermetically  sealed  pie  fruit,  glass.  255 
cans.  256 
table  fruit,  cans.  256 
natural  preserves 

in  cans 256 

ice  for  syrup 254 

jam 244 

plain  jam 256 

leather 256 

leaves  to  die  with 410 

preserve,  winter  damson 248 

paste 250 

syrup  and  jelly 253 

pickled  No.  1 -...  254 

sour  No.  2 254 

No.3 : 255 

remarks 248 

tarts 257 

trees  to  plant 321 

vinegar. 282 

Pork,  a-la-mode 92 

boiled,  salt 91 

baked    "  93 

with  beans,  superior 96 

broiled,  fresh « 93 

boiled,  plain  salt 95 

superior 95 

cutlets 99 

fritters,  salt,  with  apples 94 

fried,  salt,  plain 94 

cream  gravy 94 

steak 93 

with  parsnips 95 


Pork  pagb 

pancakes,  salt 93 

pie,  fresh 93 

pot-pie,  fresh 99 

roast,  cold,  to  serve 97 

steak,  to  serve 98 

stewed,      "       92 

stew,  "       92 

scrambled "       93 

selected 51 

tenderloins,  to  boil 99 

nice  method  of  frying  fresh 99 

bacon,  bacon  cured 360 

boiled  bacon 92 

ham,  salt 91 

fresh 96 

cold,  to  serve 97 

baked  ham ^ 92 

broiled  ham 98 

fried  bacon 96 

fried  ham 95 

ham  cured 860 

lard 97 

Potatoes,  baked 129 

boiled 127 

broiled 128 

crisped 128 

early  potatoes,  boiled 127 

fried 128 

fried 214 

fricassee 129 

hashed 129 

steamed 129 

preserved  for  the  winter 132 

selected 55 

Poultry  and  game 106 

black  and  small  birds,  to  truss 108 

chickens  to  dress  quickly 396 

to  fry 115 

fricassee  brown 115 

white 116 

pie 115 

pot-pie 115 

salad 290,291 

duck,  wild,  to  truss 107 

to  roast 112 

canvas-back,  to  truss 107 

to  roast 112 

fowls  to  dress  for  market 106 

and  game  to  truss 106 

to  truss  for  boiling 107 

in  French  style.  107 

to  roast * 110 

to  bake 110 

steamed 109 

cold 115 

toboilN'o.l 103 

No.  "2 108 

No.3 108 

No.  4 109 

broil 113 

goose,  to  truss 108 

boil 109 

roast 110 

natural Ill 

green,  roasted Ill 

hare,  to  roast 113 

hare  and  rabbit,  to  prepare 103 

moor  fowl,  to  truss , 107 

to  roast Ill 

pigeon,  to  roast 114 


INDEX. 


437 


Poultry  and  game,  page 

pigeon  and  quail  pie 114 

to  truss 107 

partridges,  to  truss 107 

to  roast 114 

toboiL 114 

pheasant,  to  boil 114  } 

to  roast Ill; 

prairie  chicken,  to  broil 114  , 

to  roast 112  ' 

quail,  to  broil 114 

black  and  small  birds,  to  roast  112 

rabbit,  to  boil 113 

to  roast 113 

reed  birds,  to  truss 103 

snipe,  to  roast 112 

turkey,  boiled 109 

bake 110 

roast 110 

■widgeons  and  teal,  to  roast 113 

■woodcock,  to  roast Ill 

Preserved  apples 232 

drying 231 

for  spring  shipments 235 

for -winter 229 

hermetically,  in  cans. 235 

in  bottles 235 

jelly 232 

marmalade 233 

crab 233 

jelly 233 

pine,No.l 200 

-without  cooking 200 

hermetically  sealed,  No.  1.  200 
No.  2.  201 

jelly 201 

marmalade 201 

apricots,  candied 192 

biscuit 257 

French 253 

pickle 255 

bath  for 26S 

barberries 263 

blackberries,  dried 270 

hermetically  sealed 267 

jelly 266 

black  currant  jam 265 

jelly 266 

currant,  red,  jelly 264 

jam,  No.  1 ; 264 

No.2 264 

eherries,  brand  v.  No.  1 260 

"No.2 260 

Black  Hawk 253 

dried,No.l 262 

No.2 263 

duke 259 

fancy 253 

hermetically,  for  pies,  in  glass .  261 
in  cans.  262 
hermetically    sealed,    natural 

preserves",  in  bottles. 259 

No.2 259 

table  fruit 262 

pickled,  No.  1. 260 

No.  2 261 

No.  3 261 

No.  4 261 

citron,  American 202 

•urrant,  black,  in  jam 265 

in  jelly 266 


Preserved  pagh 

cranberries,  jelly  and  jam 270 

fresh  ice-water,  for  winter 270 

currants,  hermetically  sealed 267 

cucumbers,  very  sour,  syrup 300 

damsons,  winter 24S 

egg-plums,  hermetically  seal  and 

preserve 252 

grapes,  in  cotton,  for  -winter,  No.  1.  271 
saw-dust,  for  -winter,  No.  2..  271 

sand,  for  winter,  No.  3 271 

jelly 265 

jam 265 

gooseberry,  jelly 266 

hermetically  sealed  and  pre- 
served    266 

ginger,  green,  No.  1 201 

No.2 201 

gages,  green,  to  candy 192 

brandy 251 

French 251 

No.3 251 

muskmelon,  No.  1 203 

No.2 204 

orange,  marmalade 201 

peaches 236 

brandy 236 

butter 23S 

dried,  with  sugar,  No.  1 239 

No.2 239 

common,  No.  3 239 

fresh,  hermetically  sealed,  No.  1  243 
No.  2  244 
No.  3  241 
No.  4  243 

•legantly,  in  bottles 241 

jam 233 

jelly.     233 

jam,  hermetically  sealed,  No.  1.  242 
No.  2.  242 

leather 239 

marmalade 233 

plain  sauce £37 

rich,  hermetically  sealed 240 

hermetically,  natural 241 

very  plain,  hermetically  sealed  242 
elegantly,  hermetically  sealed.  241 

sour,  spiced 237 

sweet,  spiced 237 

syrup,  brandy 239 

pears,  brandy 245 

baked,  hermetically  sealed 247 

ginger 245 

fresh,  hermetically  sealed. 246 

lemon 246 

pickled 246 

plain,  hermetically  sealed 246 

sweetmeats 244 

pineapple,  No.  1 200 

No.2 200 

hermetically  sealed,  No.  1 200 

No.2 201 

jelly 201 

marmalade 201 

plums : 243 

brandy  gages 251 

family  use 251 

French 251 

No.  3 251 

blue 253 

compote 250 


433 


INDEX. 


Preserved  page 

plums,  dry,  -without  sugar. w  256 

dry,  with  sugar 256 

egg,  hermetically  sealed 252 

greengages,  hermetically  seal- 
ed and  preserved,  No.  1 250 

No.  2 251 

No.  3 251 

hermetically    sealed,    natural 

preserves,  in  glass 255 

pie-fruit,  in  glass 255 

in  cans 256 

natural  preserves,  in  cans 256 

jam 256 

jelly 253 

leather 256 

nectarines,  French 253 

paste 250 

pickled,  No.  1 254 

sour,  No.  2 254 

No.3 255 

pumpkin  chips 204 

hermetically  sealed 130 

quinces 24T 

dry 248 

hermetically  sealed 247 

jelly 248 

marmalade 248 

sweetmeats 247 

raspberries 266 

jelly 266 

hermetically  sealed  and  pre- 
served   267 

jam 266 

rhubarb,  hermetically  sealed 129 

small  fruits,  hermetically  sealed  and. 

preserved 268 

squash,  hermetically  sealed 130 

strawberries,  dried 270 

jam 269 

jelly 269 

hermetically  sealed  and  pre- 
served    267 

tomatoes,  hermetically  sealed 131 

green,  preserved 202 

•whortleberries,  hermetically  sealed  268 

jelly 266 

to  dry 270 

Padding,  apple 144,  234 

dumpling 149,  234 

Boston,  improved 136 

butter,  plain,  raised  . . .  .• 140 

boiled,  rice,  baked 141 

No.l 146 

No.2 147 

in  fruit  syrups 415 

fancy 147 

baked  rice,  flour,  No.  1 141 

No.2 141,147 

Berkshire 144 

birds-nest 145 

berry 146 

barley 146 

bread,  Mrs.  F.'s 148 

batter,  boiled 149 

baked 149  I 

baked,  Indian 148  , 

cottage 134  | 

cocoa-nut 143  j 

corn  starch 148 

custard 145  I 


Pudding,  pagb 

cream,  No.  1 149 

No.  2 149 

No.3 150 

No.  4 150 

cherry,  No.  1 145 

No.  2 146 

custard 145 

English  bread, 143 

plum,  No.  1 142 

No.  2 143 

rich 144 

fruit,  raised 140 

Fourth  of  July 139 

flour,  boiled 416 

German  rice 138 

raised 138 

rye  bread 139 

ginger  bread 146 

Indian,  boiled 416 

baked 148 

ice  cream 142 

lemon 134, 418 

minute 147 

mush 147 

neudles,  German 396 

pork,  Mrs.  Hunt's 414 

for  invalids 396 

pineapple 135 

plum,  rich 144 

peach,  plain,  No.  1 244 

No.2 244 

No.  3 145 

rich,No.  4 145 

qui  ck 139 

Pennsylvania 141 

quince 145 

raised  fruit 140 

Coventry 140 

Graham 141 

rice  flour,  baked,  No.  1 141 

No.  2 141 

Graham,  No.  3... 142 

rich,                No.  4 142 

boiled,  fancy 147 

new,  with  fruit  syrup 415 

German 138 

sago 144,392 

Sunderland 417 

sponge,  Mrs.  "W.'s 148 

strawberry 135 

Saratoga 416 

tapioca  No.  1 142 

No.2 142 

•whortleberry 146 

wine 140 

Pudding  sauces 71 

brandy  sauce 72 

cherry      "     71 

cream      "      72 

dyspepsia  sauce 73 

egg              «      73 

German  cherry  sauce 71 

hard                        M 71 

maple  syrup           M    72 

orange                     "     73 

peach                       "     72 

plain  sweet            "    73 

plain  sour              "    73 

rose  hip                  "    71 

sour                        «                  71 


INDEX. 


439 


Pudding  page 

sweet  sauce 72 

wine       "     No.l 73 

"     No.2 73 

■     No.3 73 

"West  India  molasses  sauce 72 

punch  "     395 

punch  barley  "     395 

milk  "    285 

Quails,  broiled 114 

pie 134 

to  roast 112 

select 52 

Quick  ice  cream 197 

beer 415 

remedy  for  burns 378 

Quinces 247 

dinner  dessert 247 

dried  . . 248 

hermetically  sealed 247 

jelly 248 

marmalade 24S 

pudding 145 

sweetmeats 247 

Quinsy 379 

Eabbit,  boiled 113 

Babbits,  to  prepare 10S 

roasted 113 

Radishes,  grown 317 

in  hot  bed 346 

maggot 353 

salad 129 

for  aged . .  -.282 

selected 55 

Raisins 56 

sherry 276 

wine 276 

Raise  chickens 410 

Raspberry  borer 358 

brandy 230 

catsup 2S8 

cultivation 326 

hermetically  sealed 267 

jam 266 

jelly 266 

pie 157 

pudding 135 

pruned 328 

vinegar,  a  drink  for  invalids 395 

vinegar 281 

wine 274 

Rats 359 

Raw  eggs  and  milk 393 

wine 393 

Red  ants 359 

Relishes  for  breakfast 216 

Remarks  on  apples 229 

bread  making 159 

coffee 210 

cold  dinners 226, 228 

hotbeds 346 

insects 349 

fruit  culture 319 

flowers 329 

kitchen  garden 306 

peaches 236 

pickling 296 

plums 248 

roastbeef 86 


PAGB 

Remarks  on  venison. 100 

Remedies — 

antidote  for  poison 3S0 

mercury 380 

oil  vitriol 381 

laudanum 3S0 

soda 381 

arsenic 381 

verdigris 381 

corrosive  sublimate  . .  381 

nitrate  of  silver 381 

antimony 381 

sugar  of  lead 3S1 

alum  for  teeth 3S0 

abscess,  or  gathering  of  breast 3S2 

bone  to  remove  from  the  throat. . .  381 

burn,  salve 374 

liniment 374 

quick  remedy 375 

blackberry  syrup 407 

blood,  to  stop 377 

bleeding  nose,  to  stop 377 

breast,  inflammation  of 382 

cuts 375 

camphor  ice 375 

cleanse  sores 378 

chilblains 376 

chapped  hands 375 

chilblains,  receipt 376 

cough  syrup 378 

cough,  cure  for 378 

cough,  obstinate,  to  break 379 

charcoal  powder,  for  teeth 380 

cathai'tic,  simple 381 

cure  for  warts 383 

cure  for  corns 3S3 

dysentery,  cure  for 376 

receipt 376 

diarrhoea 376 

dysentery  or  diarrhoea 376 

discoloration    by  bruising,  to   re- 
move   378 

dyspeptic  lye 383 

earache 3S0 

eye  water 3S2 

elderberry  syrup 406 

frost-bitten  hands  and  feet 382 

flax-seed  jelly 378 

felon,  to  cure 382 

frost  salve 375 

hands,  chapped 375 

hiccough 379 

hair,  to  prevent  falling  out 382 

liniment  of  saltpetre 380 

lip  salve 378 

lobelia  cough  mixture 378 

liniment,  rheumatism  and  neuralgia  380 

liquorice  syrup 378 

malignant  sore  throat 379 

mouth,  sore,  wash  for 377 

medicine,  to  prepare 381 

nervous  headache 378 

•affection 379 

nose,  bleeding,  to  stop 377 

putrid  sores 375 

pulmonic  wafers 379 

quinsy 379 

rheumatism 377 

rhubarb  syrup 390 

rheumatism,  receipt 877 


440 


INDEX. 


Remedies —  page 

remove  a  bone  or  pin  from  the 

throat 881 

ringworm 382 

run-round,  to  scatter 382 

sores,  to  cleanse 375 

putrid  sores 375 

6ore  mouth,  wash 377 

6carlet  fever 377 

stings  of  insects 378 

scald  head 879 

sprains 379 

tincture  for  teeth 880 

teeth  to  clean 380 

toothache 3S0 

whalers'  burn  salve 375 

Rheumatism 377 

receipt  for 377 

Rhubarb 129 

hermetically  sealed 129 

grown 317 

pie 158 

selected 55 

syrup 390 

vinegar 282 

wine 275 

Rice,  new  method 415 

milk 392 

flour  gruel 391 

griddle  cakes 188 

bread 168 

boiled 147 

flour  pudding 141 

Roast  beef 86 

duck,  canvas-back 112 

wild 112 

fowl .  110 

goose 110 

green Ill 

natural Ill 

hare 113 

lamb,  quarter  of 101 

lobster 78 

moor  fowl 110 

mutton,  haunch 102 

shoulder  or  neck 100 

partridge Ill 

pheasant Ill 

pigeon , 114 

sauce  for 71 

pig 97 

dressing 71 

prairie  chicken 112 

snipe 112 

turkey 110 

veal,  breast  of 103 

shoulder  of 103 

widgeon  and  teal 113 

Rolled  butter 419 

Rose-bugs 355 

Roses,  budded 337 

Roses,  grafted 337 

cleft 337 

whip 838 

propagated 336 

Bourbon 342 

Chinese 341 

climbers 340 

hardy ...  340 

noisette 842 

perpetual 841 


PAGH 

Rose  flip  sauce  for  puddings 71 

Rusked  bread 225 

Rusks.  Mrs.  L.'s 417 

corn  or  barley 395 

Rust,  to  remove 408 

Saffron  dye no 

Sage,  extract  of 284 

Sago,  cooked 392 

milk 392 

pudding 144 

Salads 2S9 

chicken,  No.  1 119 

No  2.. 290 

see  celery 119 

cucumber,  for  the  aged 291 

cabbage  and  cucumbers 292 

celery,  for  the  aged 292 

dressing,  common,  No.  1 290 

very  fine,  No.  2 291 

sauce,  with  out  eggs,  No.  3 291 

sweet 291 

horseradish 291 

lettuce,  to  dress 289 

salad,  No.  1 289 

No.  2 290 

No.3 290 

No.  4 290 

lobster 291 

mustard,  mixed 291 

orange 418 

radishes,  for  the  aged 292 

tomato,  chowder 292 

Sally  Lunn 187 

Salmon,  carved 42 

cutlets 78 

fresh 76 

selected 53 

Salted  beef,  boiled 85 

cured 361 

and  dried 361 

cooked...     90 

cod 77 

balls 219 

toast,  hash 214,  218 

picked  up 80 

fislj  soaked 80 

mackerel 77 

shad 78 

ham,  boiled 91 

baked 92 

served  cold 97 

cured 360 

pork 362 

Salsify  cakes 130 

grown 311 

selected 55 

Sandwiches  of  fish 81 

Sangaree 285 

Saratoga  pudding 416 

Sauce,  brandy,  for  pudding 72 

bread,  for  poultry  and  game 69 

butter 67 

caper 420 

cherry,  for  puddings 71 

4  German,  for  puddings 71 

cream,  for  puddings 73 

catsup,  for  fish 69 

dyspepsia,  for  puddings 73 

eee,  "  "       73 


INDEX. 


441 


Sauce,  page 

egg,  for  salt  fish 68 

giblet TO 

gooseberry,  for  lamb. ., ? 69 

hard,  for  puddings Tl 

leason,  to  make  for 67 

liver TO 

lobster 69 

maple  syrup,  for  puddings T2 

mint 68 

.molasses,  improved 73 

mushroom 69 

oyster 68 

orange,  for  puddings 73 

peach,     "  "       72 

poultry  and  game 69 

rose  hip,  for  puddings 71 

salad 291 

sour,  rich,  for  puddings 73 

plum,"  "         73 

sour,  for  venison 69 

sweet,  rich,  for  puddings 72 

plain, "  "        73 

venison,  for 69 

wine,  for  venison 69 

for  puddings,  No.  1 73 

No.  2 T3 

No.3 T3 

Sausages 98 

Savory  vinegar ' 294 

Scarlet,  dye 410 

fever...... 377 

Scald  head,  cured, 379 

Scalloped,  clams. . .  i 416 

fish. 81 

oysters 82 

Mrs.  W.'s 81 

shells 413 

Scambled,  esrss 222 

pork 93 

Scour  carpets 402 

Sea-fish 75 

Seed,  saving 333 

sowing 332 

Serving  a  good  dinner  for  gentlemen. . .     24 

soup 82 

S  jrvants,  advice  to 31 

dress 36 

rooms 3 

Sewing  furs 405 

Shad,  baked 78 

fresh : 76 

fried 79 

salted 77 

Shades  of  lamps  cleansed  from  oil 399 

Shaking  carpets '. 405 

Sherry  cobblers 894 

Sheets,  cotton,  to  iron 24 

Sick  room 371 

Simple  diseases  of  infants 387 

cathartics 381 

Skirts,  to  iron 14 

Slaw,  cold 119 

hot 119 

Small  fruits,  preserved,  etc 263 

fish 74 

Snow  cream 153 

Soda  cake 175 

Soil  removed  from  carpets 403 

Sores  cleansed 375 

Soups— 

19 


Soups—  PAGE 

asparagus 116 

beef  soup,  No.  1 59 

No.  2 59 

No.3 60 

No.  4 60 

No.5 60 

chicken,  brown 64 

white 64 

clam,  No.  1 62 

No.  2 62 

eel 61 

gumbo 124 

lobster 61 

leason,  to  make  for 67 

macaroni 67 

mutton 63 

neudle,  for  invalids 395 

oyster,  for  the  city 63 

country 63 

pea 127 

remarks  on 58 

salsify 13Q 

turtle 66 

mock 65 

vermicelli 66 

veal,  No.  1 60 

No.2 60 

No.3 61 

economical,  No.  4 61 

veal  stock  for 66 

vegetable,  French 64 

Soused  fish 87 

pigs'  feet,  etc 98 

Sowing,  seed 332 

Spermaceti,  spots  of,  to  remove 400 

Spinach 130 

grown 310 

Spirits  of  camphor 399 

Sponge  cakes 175, 176 

drop  cakes 183 

German 396 

Spots,  to  remove  from  furniture 399 

Spring  work 367 

Squash  bug3 353 

cooked 130 

hermetically  sealed 130 

selected 55 

Stair  carpets  protected 404 

Starching  shirts  and  collars 13 

Starch  for  embroideries 22 

shirts 22 

Steel,  scoured 408 

rust  removed  from 408 

Stew  of  calves'  head 105 

Stewed  clams 83 

muscles 83 

oysters 82 

turtle 83 

Strawberry  ade 285 

cake 181 

dried 270 

Strawberries,  cultivated 323 

brandy 279 

hermetically  sealed 269,  276 

jam 269 

jelly 269 

pudding 135 

vinegar 294 

wine'. 281 

whips \ 151 


442 


INDEX. 


Strawberries,  page 

worm  353 

String  beans  for  winter 118 

Striped  bugs 363 

Sturgeon,  boiled 77 

Sweetbreads,  French 417 

Sweetbreads. 106 

Sweet  corn,  grown 316 

Sweetmeats,  apple * 232 

apricots 253 

barberries 263 

blackberries 267 

cherries 258 

currants 267 

damsons 248 

egg  plums 252 

ginger,  green 201 

greengages 250 

nectarines,  French 253 

peaches,  elegant 241 

pears 244 

pineapple 200 

pumpkin  chips 204 

quinces 247 

raspberries 267 

strawberries 267 

Sweet  potatoes 317 

grown  in  hot  beds 347 

Swiss  muslin,  to  wash,  etc 17 

Succotash 121 

Sugar  hearts 194 

sifter 413 

selected 56 

of  lead,  antidote  for 381 

Sillabubs  and  whips 151 

Syrups  for  candying 191 

of  proper  strength 191 

plum 253 

System  and  management  of  servants, 

etc 3 

Tapioca,  to  cook  for  invalids 382 

puddings . , 142 

Tarts,  apple 234 

cranberry 158 

gooseberry ~. . .  158 

plum 257 

lemon  or  pie 148 

Tea,  black,  prepared 207 

breakfast  prepared 207 

chosen 205 

description  of  plant 207 

green,  steeped 205 

prepared  for  market 207 

served 206 

varieties  of 205 

selected 56 

with  egg  mulled  in  it 392 

Tenderloin  of  pork,  broiled 99 

Thanksgiving  cake,  a  recipe  of  1818 180 

Thermometer  for   testing  ovens,  fruit 

baths,  etc 413 

Thrush 3S7 

Tincture  for  teeth 380 

Toast,  asparagus 116 

cream 213 

cracker = 214 

codfish 214 

dip 214 

dry 214 

dry  butter 814 


|  Toast,  pa«b 

Graham  or  Indian  bread. 214 

ess  and  toast  for  invalids 395 

egg,  No.  1 212 

No.2 212 

milk 213 

without  butter 213 

mock  cream 213 

molasses,  for  invalids 395 

molasses , 213 

tomato,  superior . .-. .  214 

tomato 131 

soft  butter 212 

water  for  invalids 393 

Tomato  catsup 289 

Tomatoes,  chowder 292 

hermetically  sealed 131 

green,  preserved 202 

forwarded  in  hot-beds 346 

pickled 302 

with  onions 303 

toast 131 

superior 214 

wine 277 

worm 352 

Tongs  for  turning  steaks 412 

Tongues,  cured 360 

carved 40 

Transplanting  annuals 334 

trees  and  small  fruits 331 

Trees  transplanted 331 

Trout,  fried 79 

selected 53 

Trussing  poultry  and  game 106 

Turbot 7T 

selected 53 

Turkey,  boiled 104 

baked 110 

selected 52 

roasted .'. 110 

Turtle  balls 83 

stew 83 

patties 83 

selected 34 

Twist  bread,  French. 165 


Underdraining 

Used,  economically — 

beefsteaks  left  over 

bread  that  is  dry 225, 

broken  cake  for  puddings 

cake  that  is  heavy 

cold  cabbage 


307 


224 
225 


eggs 

egg-plant. 

fish 

fowl 

ham 


225 


mush 224 

potatoes 225 

peas 225 

rice 224 

soup-meat  and  gristle 223 

veal 224 

pie  crust  left  over 224 

remains  of  preserves 225 

Yanilla  flummery 151 

macaroons 199 


INDEX. 


443 


PAGE 

Varieties 185 

Veal,  breast  of,  roasted 103 

with  oysters  or 

clams 104 

cutlets 104 

fillet,  boiled 103 

roasted 103 

fricassee 104 

gravy  for  roast 68 

loin  of  roasted 103 

pot-pie 104 

pie 104 

soup 60,  61 

stock  for  soups,  French 66 

stewed 104 

Verdigris,  antidote  for 381 

Vegetables,  to  cook 116 

artichokes 116 

to  preserve  through  the 

winter 131 

asparagus '. 116 

toast 116 

soup 116 

greens 116 

hermetically  sealed 117 

beets,  to  boil 117 

preserve  through  winter.  132 

beet  greens 117 

beans,  to  boil 117 

stewed 117 

baked 117 

Lima,  dried 118 

Windsor 118 

string  to  preserve  for  winter  118 

broccoli . .  „ 118 

cabbage,  early  York 118 

boiled....*. 118 

with  meat 118 

hot  slaw 118 

cold  slaw 119 

chicken  salad  with  cabbage 119 

cauliflower,  to  cook 119 

carrots 119 

celery 119 

to  preserve  for  winter 132 

chicken  salad,  No.  1 119 

curled  cress 120 

corn 120 

an  excellent  method 120 

No.2 120 

No.  3 120 

oorn  cakes,  green 121 

muffins 121 

oysters 121 

succotash 121 

to  prepare  for  succotash 121 

to  cook 122 

dried  for  winter 122 

hermetically  sealed 122 

•ucumbers 123 

to  fry 123 

«gg-plant,  to  cook,  No.  1 123 

No.2 123 

No.  3 123 

No.  4 123 

to  bake 123 

lettuce,  Dutch  method 124 

No.2 124 

to  serve  in  heads 124 

mustard  greens 124 


Vegetables,  •  page 

okra 124 

or  gumbo  soups 124 

stewed 124 

onions 125 

to  preserve  for  winter 133 

boiled 125 

fried 125 

parsley 125 

to  preserve  for  winter 132 

parsnips,  plain 125 

boiled 125 

fried 126 

fritters 126 

cutlet 126 

fricassee 126 

to  preserve  for  winter. . . .  132 

peas 126 

steamed 127 

soup 127 

dried 127 

hermetically  sealed 127 

potatoes,  early,  to  cook 127 

to  preserve  for  winter —  132 

ripe,  to  boil 127 

mashed 128 

fried  crisp 128 

fried 128 

boiled 128 

fricasseed 129 

hashed 129 

baked 129 

steamed 129 

warmed 129 

pumpkin 129 

radishes 129 

to  preserve  for  winter  use.  132 

rhubarb 129 

hermetically  sealed 129 

salsify  patties 130 

to  preserve  through  winter.  133 

soup 130 

cakes 129 

spinach 130 

squash 130 

winter 133 

baked 130 

hermetically  sealed 130 

tomatoes,  to  stew 131 

toast 131 

hermetically  sealed. . .  131 

turnips 131 

to  preserve  through  winter  133 

plain  boiled 131 

mashed 1B1 

cellar 133 

Venison,  remarks  on 100 

roasted. 100 

mock,  of  corned  beef 90 

selected 52 

steak Ill 

stewed 100 

Vermicelli  soup 66 

Vials,  to  cleanse 399 

Vines,  flowering,  list  of. 339, 340 

Vinegar,  remarks  on 296 

tester,  or  acet-meter 296 

Vinegars  flavored  with— 

basil 293 

boraee 294 

burnet 294 


444 


INDEX. 


Vinegars,  flavored  with —  page 

celery 292 

cucumbers 293 

Chili 298 

cinnamon 294 

cloves 294 

cherry 294 

eschalot 294 

flavored 292 

garlick 293 

ginger    295 

horseradish '. 295 

hop 295 

mustard 293 

marjoram 294 

mace 295 

nasturtium 293 

oyster  . . . 294 

onion 293 

•   peach 293 

savory 294 

Vinegar  for  souse 295 

soused  fish 295 

tarragon 294 

walnuts 294 

wormwood 295 

Vinegar  from  fruits 281 

apple 282 

blackberry 282 

currant 281 

cherry 281 

crabapple 283 

cider,  see  part  5,  chapter  1 230 

gooseberry 282 

grape 283 

peach 281 

plum 282 

pear 282 

raspberry 281 

rhubarb 282 

strawberry 281 

whortleberry 282 


"Waffles,  American  raised 

German         "     .......   

"       rich 

good 

pound  

"Warmed  over,  potatoes 

Warts,  cure  for 

"Water  of  barley 

for  eyes 

of  lemons 

of  toast 

Washing  blankets 

bombazines 

black  merinoes 

lace  veils 

brown  merinoes 

blue  " 

chintz  with  blue  grounds  . . . 
brown    " 
green      " 
red  "       ... 

counterpanes 

curtains 

delaines  with  delicate  colors. 

plain 

colored 

down 

doubtful  colored  muslins. . . 


S6 
S6 
86 
29 
383 
394 


24 
23 
20 
400 
20 
20 
20 
19 
19 
20 


19 
18 
18 
405 
16 


Washing  paob 

doubtful  colored  prints 16 

embroideries 21 

or  lace  curtains  ■  23 

feather  beds 404 

flannels 17 

ginghams 21 

fenerally 12 

ndia  muslins 17 

printed 15 

merinoes,  colored 18 

delicate  colored....  18 

blue 20 

brown 20 

printed 18 

scarlet 20 

mourning  prints 17 

muslins,  doubtful  colors 16 

India 17 

Swiss 17 

oil  cloths 405 

prints  with  doubtful  colors  . .  16 
fast              "      ..16 

printed  India  muslins 15 

delaines 18 

merinoes 19 

ribbons  401 

scarlet  merinoes 20 

silks 22 

sore  mouth,  for 371 

thread  lace  to  look  like  new..  400 

Wash,  trees,  fruit 329 

Washington  cake 177 

Wash  veils 400 

Walnut  catsup 296,  297 

pickles 302 

vinegar 294 

Wet  gloves,  to  save 402 

Whalers'  frost  salve 375 

Whey,  nitre 394 

milk 394 

lemon 393 

wine 394 

Wheat  and  Indian  bread 166 

White  chicken  soup 64 

White  counterpane  washed 24 

currant  brandy 279 

wine 373 

White  feathers  cleansed 403 

fish  boiled 76 

silks  or  feathers  preserved  white  404 

Whitewash,  superior 399 

common 399 

White  mountain  cake 177 

cup               "    174 

Whips  of  cream '. 151 

cocoa 152 

and  jelly 152 

strawberries 151 

sillabubs 151 

Whip  grafting 333 

Whooping  cough 389 

Whortleberries,  dried 270 

catsup 289 

hermetically  sealed.. .  268 

jelly 366 

pie 157. 

vinegar. 282 

wine 272 

Wedding  cake  of  1818 179 

Widgeons  and  teals 113 


INDEX. 


445 


PAGE 

Wild  dock  trussed 107 

roasted 112 

Windsor  beans 118 

Winter  cookies 182 

radishes 132 

vegetables  preserved  for 131 

squash 133 

Wine 272 

apricot 274 

barrel,  to  cleanse 277 

blackberry,      No.  1 278 

No.2 278 

black  currant,  No.  1 273 

No.2 273 

cherry 274 

French 274 

currant,  sweet 272 

white 273 

red 273 

black,  No.  1 273 

No.2 273 

damson 274 

elderberry,  spiced 273 

flowers 415 

grape,  No.  1 272 

No.2 277 

No.3 277 

ginger,  No.  1 275 

excellent,  No.  2 277 

gooseberry 275 

mulberry 274 

peach 274 

parsnip 277 

red  currant 273 

raspberry,  No.  1 274 


PAGE 

Wine,  raspberry,  No.  2 274 

rhubarb,  No.  1 275 

No.2 275 

raisins,  No.  1 275 

No.2 276 

No.3 276 

sherry 276 

sweet  currant 272 

strawberry,  No.  1 274 

No.2 274 

tomato 277 

whortleberry 272 

white  currant 273 

and  milk 392 

with  egg  mulled  in  it 392 

mulled 285 

with  raw  eggs  f c  r  invalids 393 

panada  for  invalids 393 

pudding 140 

sauces  for  pudding 73 

sauce  for  venison 69 

whey 394 

Mrs.  L.'s 415 

Woodcocks,  roasted Ill 

trussed 107 

Worms,  infants  troubled  with 389 

corn 351 

cut 347 

strawberry 353 

tomato 352 

wire 351 

Yellow  dye  for  silks 40? 

sodacake 175 


Any  of  these  Boohs  sent  free  by  mail  to  any  address  on  receipt  of  Price. 


EECENT  PUBLICATIONS 


D.    APPLETON    &    CO., 


443    &    445    BROADWAY,    NEW   YORK 


The  Life  and  Correspondence  of 

THEODOItE  PARKER,  Minister  of  the  Twenty-eighth  Congre- 
gational Society,  Boston.  By  John  Weiss.  With  two  Por- 
traits on  Steel,  fac-simile  of  Handwriting,  and  nineteen  Wood 
Engravings.     2  vols.,  8vo.     1,008  pages.     Price,  $6. 

B  These  volume*  contain  an  account  of  Mr.  Parker's  childhood  and  self- 
education  ;  of  the  development  of  his  theological  ideas  ;  of  his  scholarly  and 
philosophical  pursuits  ;  and  of  his  relation  to  the  Anti-Slavery  cause,  and  to 
the  epoch  in  America  which  preceded  the  civil  war.  His  two  visits  to  Europe 
are  described  in  letters  and  extracts  from  his  journal.  An  autobiographical 
fragment  is  introduced  in  relation  to  Mr.  Parker's  early  life,  and  his  letters 
of  friendship  on  literary,  speculative,  and  political  topics  are  freely  inter- 
spersed. The  illustrations  represent  scenes  connected  with  various  periods  of 
Mr.  Parker's  life,  the  houses  he  dwelt  in,  his  country  haunts,  the  meeting 
house,  his  library,  and  the  Music  Hall  in  which  he  preached." 


L 


Catechism  of  the  Steam  Engine, 

In  its  various  Applications  to  Mines,  Mills,  Steam  Navigation, 

Railways,  and  Agriculture.     With  Practical  Instructions  for 

the  Manufacture  and  Management  of  Engines  of  every  Class. 

By  John  Bourne,  C.  E.    New  and  Revised  Edition.     1  vol., 

12mo.     Illustrated.     Cloth.     $2. 

"  In  offering  to  the  American  public  a  reprint  of  a  work  on  the  Steam 
Engine  so  deservedly  successful,  and  so  long  considered  standard,  the  Pub- 
lishers have  not  thought  it  necessary  that  it  should  be  an  exact  copy  of  the 
English  edition.  There  were  some  details  in  which  they  thought  it  could  be 
improved  and  better  adapted  to  the  use  of  American  Engineers.  On  this  ac- 
count the  size  of  the  page  has  been  increased  to  a  full  12mo.  to  admit  of  larger 
illustrations,  which,  in  the  English  edition,  are  often  on  too  small  a  scale,  and 
some  of  the  illustrations  themselves  have  been  supplied  by  others  equally  ap- 
plicable, more  recent,  and  to  us  more  familiar  examples.  The  first  part  of 
Chapter  XL,  devoted  in  the  English  edition  to  English  portable  and  fixed 
agricultural  engines,  in  this  edition  gives  place  entirely  to  illustrations  from 
American  practice,  of  steam  engines  as  applied  to  different  purposes,  and  of 
appliances  and  machines  necessary  to  them.  But  with  the  exception  of  some 
of  the  illustrations  and  the  description  of  them,  and  the  correction  of  a  few 
typographical  errors,  this  edition  is  a  faithful  transcript  of  the  latest  English 
edition." 


D.  APPLETON  &  CO.'S  PUBLICATIONS. 

History  of  the  Romans  under  the 

Empire.    By  Charles  Meriyale,  B.  D.,  late  Fellow  of  St.  John's 
College.     1  vols.,  small  8vo.    Handsomely  printed  on  tinted 
paper.  Price,  in  cloth,  $2  per  vol.  Half  Morocco  extra,  $3  60. 
CONTENTS  : 

Vols.  I.  and  II. — Comprising  the  History  to  the  Fall  of  Julius  Cassar. 

Vol.  III. — To  the  Establishment  of  the  Monarchy  by  Augustus. 

Vols.  IV.  and  V. — From  Augustus  to  Claudius,  b.  c.  2*7  to  a.  d.  54. 

Vol.  VI. — From  the  Reign  of  Nero,  a.  d.  54,  to  the  Fall  of  Jerusa- 
lem, a.  d.  10. 

Vol.  VII. — From  the  Destruction  of  Jerusalem,  a.  d.  70,  to  the 
Death  of  M.  Aurelius. 

This  valuable  work  terminates  at  the  point  where  the  narrative  of  Gibbon 
commences. 

"  When  we  enter  3n  a  more  searching  criticism  of  the  two 
writers,  it  must  be  admitted  that  Merivale  has  as  lirm  a  grasp  of  his  subject  as 
Gibbon,  and  that  his  work  is  characterized  by  a  greater  freedom  from  preju- 
dice, and  a  sounder  philosophy. 

"  This  history  must  always  stand  as  a  splendid  monument 
of  Ms  learning,  his  candor,  and  his  vigorous  grasp  of  intellect.  Though  he 
is  in  some  respects  inferior  to  Macaulay  and  Grote,  he  must  still  be  classed 
with  them,  as  one  of  the  second  great  triumvirate  of  English  historians."— 
North  American  Review,  April,  1863. 

Practice   in  the  Executive  De- 

partment  of  the  Government,  under  the  Pension,  Bounty,  and 

Prize  Laws  of  the  United  States,  with  Forms  and  Instructions 

for  Collecting  Arrears  of  Pay,  Bounty,  and  Prize  Money,  and 

for  Obtaining  Pensions.     By  Robert  Sewell,  Counsellor  at 

Law.     1  vol.,  8vo.     Sheep.     Price,  $3  50. 

"  I  offer  this  little  book  with  confidence  to  the  profession,  as  certain  to 
save  lawyers,  in  one  case,  if  they  never  have  any  more,  more  time  and  trouble 
than  its  cost.  To  the  public  generally,  the  book  is  offered  as  containing  a 
large  amount  of  useful  information  on  a  subject  now,  unfortunately,  brought 
home  to  half  the  families  in  the  land.  To  the  officers  and  soldiers  of  the  Army 
it  will  also  be  found  a  useful  companion  ;  and  it  is  hoped  that  by  it  an  amount 
of  information  of  great  value  to  the  soldiers,  and  to  their  families  at  heme, 
will  be  disseminated,  and  the  prevailing  ignorance  respecting  the  subject 
treated  of  in  a  great  degree  removed."—  Extract  from  Preface. 


Hints  to  Riflemen, 


By  H.  W.  S.  Cleveland.     1  vol.,  12mo.     Illustrated,  with  nu- 
merous Designs  of  Rifles  and  Rifle  Practice.  Cloth.  Price,  $1  50. 

w  I  offer  these  hints  as  the  contribution  of  an  old  sportsman,  and  if  I  suc- 
ceed \v  any  degree  in  exciting  an  interest  in  the  subject,  my  end  will  be  ac- 
complished, even  if  the  future  investigations  of  those  who  are  thus  attracted 
should  prove  any  of  my  opinions  to  be  erroneous."— Extract  from  Preface. 


D.  APPLETON  &  CO.'S  PUBLICATIONS, 


Laws  and  Principles  of  Whist, 

Stated  and  Explained,  and  its  Practice  Illustrated  on  an  Original 

"  System,  by  means  of  hands  played  completely  through.    By 

Cavendish.    From  the  fifth  London  edition.     1  vol.,  square 

16mo.     Gilt  edge.    $1  25. 

"An  excellent  and  very  clearly  written  treatise;  the  rules  of  the  game 
thoroughly  explained ;  its  practice  illustrated  hy  means  of  hands  played  com- 
pletely through,  ancTmuch  of  the  minutiae  and  finesse  of  the  game  given  that 
we  have  never  seen  in  any  other  volume  of  the  kind.  Whist  players  "will  re- 
cognize it  as  an  authority;  and  that  it  is  a  success  is  proved  by  its  having 
already  gone  through  five  editions.  It  is  got  out  very  neatly,  in  blue  and  gold, 
by  the  publishers." — Com,  Bulletin. 


Roba  di  Roma. 


By  W.  W.  Story.     2  vols.,  12mo.     Cloth,  $3. 

"  Till  Rome  shall  fall,  the  City  of  the  Seven  Hills  -will  he  inexhaustible  as 
a  subject  of  interest.  'Roba  di  Roma'  contains  the  gatherings  of  an  honest 
observer  and  a  real  artist.  ...  It  has  permanent  value  to  entitle  it  to  a 
place  of  honor  on  the  shelf  which  contains  every  lover  of  Italy's  Rome-books." 
— Athenobum. 

Heat  considered  as  a  Mode  of 

Motion.    Being  a  Course  of  Twelve  Lectures  delivered  at  the 

Royal  Institution  of  Great  Britain.     By  John  Tyndall,  F.R.S. 

Author  of  "The  Glaciers  of  the  Alps."    1  vol.,  12mo.    With 

101  illustrations.     Cloth.     $2. 

"No  one  can  read  Dr.  Tyndall's  book  without  being  impressed  with  the 
intensity  of  the  author's  conviction  of  the  truth  of  the  theory  which  it  is  his 
object  to  illustrate,  or  with  the  boldness  with  which  he  confronts  the  difficul- 
ties which  he  encounters.  *******  Dr.  Tyndall's  is 
the  first  work  in  which  the  undulatory  or  mechanical  theory  of  heat  has  been 
placed  in  a  popular  light ;  but  we  are  sure  that  no  one,  however  profound  his 
knowledge  upon  the  subject  of  which  it  treats,  will  rise  from  its  perusal  with- 
out a  feeling  that  he  has  been  both  gratified  and  instructed  in  a  high  degre* 
while  read? ifg  its  pages."— London  Reader. 


Life  of  Edward  Livingston, 

Mayor  of  the  City  of  New  York ;  Member  of  Congress  ;  Senator 
of  the  United  States ;  Secretary  of  State ;  Minister  to  France  ; 
Author  of  a  System  of  Penal  Law  for  Louisiana ;  Member  of 
the  Institute  of  France,  etc.  By  Charles  H.  HtnsT,  with  an 
Introduction  by  George  Bancroft.    1  vol.,  8vo.    Cloth,  $3.50. 

"One  of  the  purest  of  statesmen  and  the  mol"t  genial  of  men,  was 
Edward  Livingston,  whose  career  is  presented  in  this  volume.     *    *    *    * 

"The  author  of  this  volume  has  done  the  country  a  service.  He  has  given 
us  in  a  becoming  form  an  appropriate  memorial  of  one  whom  succeeding  gen- 
erations will  be  proud  to  name  as  an  American  jurist  and  statesman." — 
Mvangeli&t. 


D   APPLETON  &  CO.'S  PUBLICATIONS. 


Round  the  Block. 


An  American  Novel.     With  Illustrations.     1  vol.,  12mo.    Cloth. 

Price,  $1  50. 

"The  story  is  remarkably  clever.  It  presents  the  most  vivid  and  various 
pictures  of  men  and  manners  in  the  great  Metropolis.  Unlike  most  novels 
that  now  appear,  it  has  no  'mission,' the  author  being  neither  a  politician 
nor  a  reformer,  but  a  story  teller,  according  to  the  old  pattern,  and  a  capital 
story  he  has  produced,  written  in  the  happiest  style,  and  full  of  wit  and  ac- 
tion. He  evidently  knows  his  ground,  and  moves  over  it  with  the  foot  of  a 
master.  It  is  a  work  that  will  be  read  and  admired,  unless  all  love  for  good 
novels  has  departed  from  us  ;  and  we  know  that  such  is  not  the  case."— Boston 
Traveler. 

The  History  of  Civilization  in 

England.    By  Henry  Thomas  Buckle.     2  vols.,  8vo.    Cloth.  $6. 

"  Whoever  misses  reading  this  book,  will  miss  reading  what  is,  in  various 
respects,  to  the  best  of  our  judgment  and  experience,  the  most  remarkable 
book  of  the  day— one,  indeed,  that  no  thoughtful,  inquiring  mind  would  miss 
reading  for  a  good  deal.  Let  the  reader  be  as  averse  as  he  may  to  the  writer's 
philosophy,  let  him  be  as  devoted  to  the  obstructive  as  Mr.  Buckle  is  to  the 
progress  party,  let  him  be  as  orthodox  in  church  creed  as  the  other  is  hetero- 
dox, as  dogmatic  as  his  author  is  sceptical— let  him,  in  short,  find  his  preju- 
dices shocked  at  every  turn  of  the  argument,  and  all  his  prepossessions  whis- 
tled down  the  wind — still  there  is  so  mucb  in  this  extraordinary  volume  to 
stimulate  reflection,  and  excite  to  inquiry,  and  provoke  to  earnest  investiga- 
tion, perhaps  (to  this  or  that  reader)  on  a  track  hitherto  untrodden,  and 
across  the  virgin  soil  of  untilled  fields,  fresh  woods,  and  pastures  new— that 
we  may  fairly  defy  the  most  hostile  spirit,  the  most  mistrustful  and  least 
sympathetic,  to  read  it  through  without  being  glad  of  having  done  so,  or  hav- 
ing begun  it,  or  even  glanced  at  almost  any  one  of  its  pages,  to  pass  it  away 
unread." — New  Monthly  {London)  Magazine. 

Illustrations  of  Universal  Prog- 

ress.     A  Series  of  Essays.  By  Herbert  Spencer,  Author  of  "  The 

Principles  of  Psychology;"  "Social  Statics;"  "Education." 

1  vol.,  12mo.     Cloth,  $1  75. 

"  The  readers  who  have  made  the  acquaintance  of  Mr.  Herbert  Spencer 
through  his  work  on  Education,  and  are  interested  in  his  views  upon  a  larger 
range  of  subjects,  will  welcome  this  new  volume  of  '  Essays.'  Passing  by 
the  more  scientific  and  philosophical  speculations,  we  may  call  attention  to  a 
group  of  articles  upon  moral  and  political  subjects,  which  are  very  pertinent 
to  the  present  condition  of  affairs." — Tribune. 


Thirty  Poems, 


By  Wm.  Cullen  Bryant.  1  vol.,  12mo.  Cloth,  $1.25  ;  cloth  gilt, 
$1.75;  mor.,  $3.50. 

"  N"o  English  poet  surpasses  him  in  knowledge  of  nature,  and  but  few  are 
his  equals.  Ho  is  better  than  Cowper  and  Thomson  in  their  special  walks  of 
poetry,  and  the  equal  of  "Wordsworth,  that  great  high,  priest  of  nature."— 
Tht,  World. 


D.  APPLETON  &  CO.'S  PUBLICATIONS. 

An   Introduction  to   Municipal 

Law,  designed  for  General  Readers,  and  for  Students  in  Colleges 
and  High  Schools.  By  John  Norton  Pomeroy.  1  vol.,  8vo. 
544  pages.     Cloth,  $3. 

"  I  have  spent  nearly  four  days  in  reading  your  book,  and  am  -willing  to  say, 
in  reference  to  it,  that,  when  considered  in  reference  to  its  scope  and  the  design 
had  in  view  in  entering  upon  is,  it  is  a  work  of  great  merit.  The  topics  are 
presented  clearly,  discussed  with  ability,  and  in  the  main  satisfactory  results 
arrived  at.  Parts  I.  and  II.,  I  think,  may  prove  very  useful  to  students  at  law 
and  young  lawyers,  as  there  is  a  great  deal  in  the  history  of  the  law,  and 
especially  in  its  sources,  both  common  and  civil,  that  is  very  clearly,  briefly,  and 
logically  stated,  and  more  available  in  the  manner  presented  in  your  work  than 
in  any  other  that  I  am  acquainted  -with." — From  Amos  Dean,  Esq.,  Albany 
Law  School. 


Thackeray ; 


The  Humorist  and  Man  of  Letters,  the  Story  of  his  Life,  with 
particulars  of  his  early  career  never  before  made  public.  By 
Theodore  Taylor,  Esq.  Illustrated  with  a  Portrait,  one  of 
the  latest  taken  from  life  ;  View  of  Thackeray's  House  ;  Fac- 
simile of  his  Handwriting ;  Humorous  Illustrations  by  George 
Cruikshank ;  and  other  Pictures  and  Sketches.  One  vol., 
12mo.     Cloth.     Price,  $1  25. 

"  The  author,  Mr.  T.  Taylor,  long  resident  in  Paris,  has  been  collecting  in- 
formation for  many  years,  and  has  much  to  say  of  Mr.  Thackeray's  artist  life  in 
that  city.  The  book  is  illustrated  with  a  portrait  and  some  curious  original 
sketches." — From  the  Guardian. 


The  Iron  Manufacture  of  Great 

Britain.  Theoretically  and  Practically  considered :  Including 
Descriptive  Details  of  the  Ores,  Fuels,  and  Fluxes  employed ; 
the  Preliminary  Operation  of  Calcination ;  the  Blast,  Refining, 
and  Puddling  Furnaces ;  Engines  and  Machinery ;  and  the 
Yarious  Processes  in  Union,  etc.,  etc.  By  "W.  Truran,  C.  E., 
formerly  Engineer  at  the  Dowlais  Iron  Works,  under  the  late 
Sir  John  Guest,  Bart.  Second  Edition,  revised  from  the 
manuscripts  of  the  late  Mr.  Truran,  by  J.  Arthur  Phillips, 
Author  of  "  A  Manual  of  Metallurgy,"  "  Records  of  Mining," 
etc.,  and  Wm.  H.  Dorman.  One  vol.,  imperial  8vo.  Con- 
taining 84  Plates.     Price,  $10. 


D.  APPLETON  &  CO.'S  PUBLICATIONS 

Principles  of  Political  Economy. 

With  some  of  their  Applications  of  Social  Philosophy.     By  John 

Stuart  Mill.  2  vols.,  8vo.  Printed  on  tinted  paper.  Cloth,  $6. 

11  In  the  whole  range  of  extant  authorship  on  political  economy,  there  is 
no  writer  except  Adam  Smith  with  whom  John  Stuart  Mill  can,  without  in- 
justice, be  compared.  In  originality,  Adam  Smith,  as  being  the  acknowl- 
edged father  of  the  science,  takes  the  precedence,  as  he  does  also  in  exuber- 
ance of  apt  illustration.  But  in  rectitude  of  understanding,  clearness  and 
sagacity,  Mill  is  fully  his  peer  ;  in  precision  of  method,  range  of  topics,  and 
adaptation  to  the  present  state  of  society,  he  is  altogether  his  superior.  The 
1  Wealth  of  Nations'  now  belongs,  indeed,  rather  to  the  history  of  the  science 
than  to  its  exposition.  But  the  '  Principles  of  Political  Economy '  is  an  orderly, 
symmetrical,  and  lucid  exposition  of  the  science  in  its  present  advanced  state. 
In  extent  of  information,  breadth  of  treatment,  pertinence  of  fresh  illustra- 
tion, and  accommodation  to  the  present  wants  of  the  statesman,  the  mer- 
chant, and  the  social  philosopher,  this  work  is  imrivalled.  It  is  written  in  a 
luminous  and  smooth,  yet  clear-cut  style  ;  and  there  is  diffused  over  it  a  6oft 
atmosphere  of  feeling,  derived  from  the  author's  unaffected  humanity  and 
enlightened  interest  in  the  welfare  of  the  masses." 

The  'New  American  Cyclopaedia. 

Edited  by  George  Eipley  and  Charles  A.  Dana.  Now  com- 
plete, in  16  vols.,  8vo.,  double  columns,  ^50  pages  each. 
Cloth,  $4;  Sheep,  $4  15  ;  Half  Hor.,  $5;  Half  Russia,  $5  50 
per  volume. 

The  leading  claims  to  public  consideration  which  the  New  American  Cy~ 
clopcedia  possesses  may  be  thus  briefly  stated  : 

"  1.  It  surpasses  all  other  works  in  the  fullness  and  ability  of  the  articles 
relating  to  the  United  States. 

"  2.  No  other  work  contains  so  many  reliable  biographies  of  the  leading 
men  of  this  and  other  nations.  In  this  respect  it  is  far  superior  even  to  the 
more  bulky  Encyclopaedia  Britannica. 

"3.  The  best  minds  in  this  country  have  been  employed  in  enriching  its 
pages  with  the  latest  data,  and  the  most  recent  discoveries  in  every  branch  of 
manufactures,  mechanics,  and  general  science. 

"4.  It  is  a  library  in  itself,  where  every  topic  is  treated,  and  where  in- 
formation can  be-gleaned  which  will  enable  a  student,  if  he  is  so  disposed,  to 
consult  other  authorities,  thus  Affording  him  an  invaluable  key  to  knowledge. 

"5.  It  is  neatly  printed,  with  readable  type,  on  good  paper,  and  contains 
a  most  copious  index. 

"  6.  It  is  the  only  work  which  gives  anything  approaching  correct  descrip- 
tions of  cities  and  towns  of  America,  or  embraces  reliable  statistics  showing 
the  wonderful  growth  of  all  sections." 

Queen  Mab. 

A  New  Novel.  By  JmiA  Kayanagh.  1  vol.,  12mo.  Cloth,  $1  50. 

"  No  English  novelist  of  the  present  day  ought  to  hold,  we  think,  a  higher 
rank  in  her  own  peculiar  walk  of  literature  than  Miss  Kavanagh.  There  is  a 
freshness  of  originality  about  all  her  works,  and  an  individual  character 
stamped  on  each,— there  is,  moreover,  a  unity  of  thought  and  feeling,  a  har- 
mony, so  to  speak,  pervading  each  separate  work,  that  plainly  speaks  original 
genius,  while  the  womanly  grace  of  her  etchings  of  character,  is  a  marvel  of 
artistic  excellence."— Tablet. 


D.  APPLETON  &  CO.'S  PUBLICATIONS. 


THE 

NEW  AMERICAN  CYCLOPAEDIA. 

EDITED   BY 

GEORGE  RIPLEY  AND  CHARLES  A.  DANA. 

PUBLISHED  BY 

D.  APPLETON  &  COMPANY,  New  York 

In  16  Vols.  8yo,  Double  Columns,  750  Pages  each. 

Price,  Cloth,  $4. ;  Sheep,  4.75  ;  HalfMor.,  $5.00/  HalfRua.,  $5.5C 
per  Volume. 


Every  one  that  reads,  every  one  that  mingles  in  society,  it* 
constantly  meeting  with  allusions  to  subjects  on  which  he 
needs  and  desires  further  information.  In  conversation,  in 
trade,  in  professional  life,  on  the  farm,  in  the  family,  practical 
questions  are  continually  arising,  which  no  man,  well  read  or 
not,  can  always  satisfactorily  answer.  If  facilities  for  reference 
are  at  hand,  they  are  consulted,  and  not  only  is  the  curiosity 
gratified,  and  the  stock  of  knowledge  increased,  but  perhaps 
information  is  gained  and  ideas  are  suggested  that  will  directly 
contribute  to  the  business  success  of  the  party  concerned. 

With  a  Cyclopaedia,  embracing  every  conceivable  subject, 
and  having  its  topics  alphabetically  arranged,  not  a  moment  is 
lost.  The  matter  in  question  is  found  at  once,  digested,  con- 
densed, stripped  of  all  that  is  irrelevant  and  unnecessary,  and 
verified  by  a  comparison  of  the  best  authorities.  Moreover, 
while  only  men  of  fortune  can  collect  a  library  complete  in  all 
the  departments  of  knowledge,  a  Cyclopaedia,  worth  in  itself, 
for  purposes  of  reference,  at  least  a  thousand  volumes,  is  within 
the  reach  of  all — the  clerk,  the  merchant,  the  professional  man, 
the  farmer,  the  mechanic.  In  a  country  like  ours,  where  the 
humblest  may  be  called  to  responsible  positions  requiring 
intelligence  and  general  information,  the  value  of  such  a  work 
can  not  be  over-estimated. 


2  D.  APPLETON  &  CO.'S  PUBLICATIONS. 

PLAN   OF   THE   CYCLOP/EDIA. 

The  New  American  Cyclopaedia  presents  a  panoramic  view 
of  all  human  knowledge,  as  it  exists  at  the  present  moment. 
It  embraces  and  popularizes  every  subject  that  can  be  thought 
of.  In  its  successive  volumes  is  contained  an  inexhaustible 
fund  of  accurate  and  practical  information  on  Art  and  Science 
in  all  their  branches,  including  Mechanics,  Mathematics,  As- 
tronomy, Philosophy,  Chemistry,  and  Physiology;  on  Agri- 
culture, Commerce,  and  Manufactures;  on  Law,  Medicine,  and 
Theology ;  on  Biography  and  History,  Geography  and  Ethnol- 
ogy ;  on  Political  Economy,  the  Trades,  Inventions,  Politics, 
the  Things  of  Common  Life,  and  General  Literature. 

The  Industrial  Arts  and  those  branches  of  Practical  Science 
which  have  a  direct  bearing  on  our  every-day  life,  such  a» 
Domestic  Economy,  Ventilation,  the  Heating  of  Houses,  Diet, 
&c,  are  treated  with  the  thoroughness  which  their  great  im* 
portance  demands. 

The  department  of  Biography  is  full  and  complete,  embra- 
cing the  lives  of  all  eminent  persons,  ancient  and  modern.  In 
American  biography,  particularly,  great  pains  have  been  taken 
to  present  the  most  comprehensive  and  accurate  record  that 
has  yet  been  attempted. 

In  History,  the  "New  American  Cyclopaedia  gives  no  mere 
catalogue  of  barren  dates,  but  a  copious  and  spirited  narrative, 
under  their  appropriate  heads,  of  the  principal  events  in  the 
annals  of  the  world.  So  in  Geography,  it  not  only  serves  as  a 
general  Gazetteer,  but  it  gives  interesting  descriptions  of  the 
principal  localities  mentioned,  derived  from  books  of  travel 
and  other  fresh  and  authentic  sources. 

As  far  as  is  consistent  with  thoroughness  of  research  and 
exactness  of  statement,  the  popular  method  has  been  pursued. 
The  wants  of  the  people  in  a  work  of  this  kind  have  been  care- 
fully kept  in  view  throughout. 

It  is  hardly  necessary  to  add  that,  throughout  the  whole, 
perfect  fairness  to  all  sections  of  country,  local  institutions,  public 
men,  political  creeds,  and  religious  denominations,  has  been  a 
sacred  principle  and  leading  aim.  Nothing  that  can  be  con- 
strued into  an  invidious  or  offensive  allusion  has  been  admitted. 


THE  NEW  AMERICAN  CYCLOPAEDIA. 


DISTINGUISHING   EXCELLENCES. 

While  we  prefer  that  the  work  should  speak  for  itself,  and 
that  others  should  herald  its  excellences,  we  cannot  refrain 
from  calling  attention  to  the  following  points,  in  which  we 
take  an  honest  pride  in  believing  that  the  New  American 
Cyclopaedia  surpasses  all  others : — 

I.  In  Accueacy  and  Fbeshness  of  Infoemation. — The 
value  of  a  work  of  this  kind  is  exactly  proportioned  to  its  cor- 
rectness. It  must  preclude  the  necessity  of  having  other 
books.  Its  decision  must  be  final.  It  must  be  an  ultimatum 
of  reference,  or  it  is  good  for  nothing. 

II.  In  Impaetiality. — Our  work  has  undergone  the  exam- 
ination of  Argus  eyes.  It.  has  stood  the  ordeal.  It  is  pro- 
nounced by  distinguished  men  and  leading  reviews  in  all  parts 
of  the  Union,  strictly  fair  and  national.  Eschewing  all  expres- 
sions of  opinion  on  controverted  points  of  science,  philosophy, 
religion,  and  politics,  it  aims  at  an  accurate  representation  of 
facts  and  institutions,  of  the  results  of  physical  research,  of  the 
prominent  events  in  the  history  of  the  world,  of  the  most  sig- 
nificant productions  of  literature  and  art,  and  of  the  celebrated 
individuals  whose  names  have  become  associated  with  the 
conspicuous  phenomena  of  their  age — doing  justice  to  all  men, 
all  creeds,  all  sections. 

III.  In  Completeness. — It  treats  of  every  subject,  in  a  terse 
and  condensed  style,  but  fully  and  exhaustively.  It  is  believed 
that  but  few  omissions  will  be  found ;  but  whatever  topics  may, 
through  any  oversight,  be  wanting,  are  supplied  in  an  Appendix. 

IY.  In  Amebic  an  Chaeactee. — The  New  Cyclopaedia  is 
intended  to  meet  the  intellectual  wants  of  the  American  people. 
It  is  not,  therefore,  modelled  after  European  works  of  a  similar 
design ;  but,  while  it  embraces  all  their  excellences,  has  added 
to  them  a  peculiar  and  unmistakable  American  character.  It 
is  the  production  mainly  of  American  mind. 

Y.  In  Peactical  Beaeing. — The  day  of  philosophical  ab- 
straction and  speculation  has  passed  away.  This  is  an  age  of 
action.  Cui  dono  is  the  universal  touchstone.  Feeling  this,  we 
have  made  our  Cyclopaedia  thoroughly  practical.  No  man  of 
action,  be  his  sphere  humble  or  exalted,can  afford  to  do  without  it 


4  D.  APPLETON  &  CO.'S  PUBLICATIONS. 

VI.  In  Interest  of  Style. — The  cold,  formal,  and  re- 
pulsive style  usual  in  works  of  this  kind,  has  been  replaced  with 
a  style  sparkling  and  emphatically  readable.  It  has  been  the 
aim  to  interest  and  please,  as  well  as  instruct.  Many  of  our 
writers  are  men  who  hold  the  foremost  rank  in  general  litera- 
ture, and  their  articles  have  been  characterized  by  our  best 
critics  as  models  of  elegance,  force,  and  beauty. 

VII.  In  Convenience  of  Form. — No  ponderous  quartos, 
crowded  with  fine  type  that  strains  the  eyes  and  wearies  the 
brain,  are  here  presented.  The  volumes  are  just  the  right  size 
to  handle  conveniently;  the  paper  is  thick  and  white,  the  typo 
large,  the  binding  elegant  and  durable. 

VIII.  In  Cheapness. — Our  Cyclopaedia  has  been  univer- 
sally pronounced  a  miracle  of  cheapness.  We  determined,  at 
the  outset,  to  enlarge  its  sphere  of  usefulness,  and  make  it 
emphatically  a  book  for  the  people,  by  putting  it  at  the  lowest 
possible  price. 

Such  being  the  character  of  the  New  American  Cyclopaedia, 
an  accurate,  fresh,  impartial,  complete,  practical,  interesting, 
convenient,  cheap  Dictionary  of  General  Knowledge,  we  ask, 
who  can  afford  to  do  without  it?  Can  the  merchant,  the 
statesman,  the  lawyer,  the  physician,  the  clergyman,  to  whom 
it  gives  thorough  and  complete  information  on  every  point 
connected  with  their  several  callings?  Can  the  teacher,  who 
is  enabled,  by  the  outside  information  it  affords,  to  make  his 
instructions  doubly  interesting  and  profitable?  Can  the  far- 
mer, to  whom  it  offers  the  latest  results  of  agricultural  research 
and  experiment?  Can  the  young  man,  to  whom  it  affords  the 
means  of  storing  his  mind  with  useful  knowledge  bearing  no 
any  vocation  he  may  have  selected?  "  Can  the  intelligent 
mechanic,  who  wishes  to  understand  what  he  reads  in  his  daily 
paper?  Can  the  mother  of  a  family,  whom  it  initiates  into  the 
mysteries  of  domestic  economy,  and  teaches  a  thousand  things 
which  more  than  saves  its  cost  in  a  single  year  ?  In  a  word,  can 
any  intelligent  American,  who  desires  to  understand  the  insti- 
tutions of  his  country,  its  past  history  and  present  condition, 
and  his  own  duties  as  a  citizen,  deny  himself  this  great  Ameri- 
can digest  of  all  human  knowledge,  universally  pronounced  the 
jst  Cyclopaedia  and  the  most  valuable  work  ever  published? 


-  22  v9)& 


