Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


N7  DiaTINOniSHBD   AMBRICAIT  WOtUEN 

■NT  It.  B.  H&TBS Washington  City. 

Idstick  M.  H.  Waits fVaMngtim  City. 

iBTOFSTATBW.  M.  EVARTW W''l>MtlffUin  Oily. 

EHATOR  Gkorue  H.  Pbnulbton OAw. 

EMAToa  M.  C.  BtiTLKK. .Sout/i  Carolinn. 

Mrs.  Oovkbnor  Gkorob  B.  McOlkllan Next  Jtraey. 

Hrs.  U.  S.  Sknatoh  John  B.  Gordom Qevr^a. 

Mrs.  Gotbrhob  P.  T.  Nicholls IjcaUi'in-i. 

Mrs.  U.  S.  Sbnator  A.  U.  Thvruan Ohio. 


From  Die  wile  of  Chief  Jus 


Washington  OiTT,     -b.  20,  1879. 
I  do  not  hoeitate  to  sa;  that  in  my  o^nioo  it  it  an  eicelU  it  guide  to  th« 
art  of  cooking. 

M  B.  WA1TE. 


un  the  wllo  of  Govwlnok  F.  T.  NiCHOua,  Loulilana : 

Nbw  Orlbahs,  Feb.  20,  lfi79. 
1  regard  "Houaekeaping  in  Old  Virginia"  ai  a  Bonaiblo  and  valuable  book. 
CARRA  G    fJICHOLtfl. 


From  the  wile  ol  0.  B.  BniAroa  A 


I  have  carefiill;  examined  the  nork,  and  think  very  highly  of  it.     t  do  n 
know  of  any  book  of  Ihe  kind  more  likel;  to  be  useful. 


Fromlhevflleor  Ex-Got. andEx-U,  S.3«NAW«Joi'-:  ".V    -  .  ■  ;.^     ■      i  Kuntorky: 

(   n  IV..I..N,  Kr.,  Feb.  28.  187ft. 
The  sound  common-sense  of  V:  j.t.hi  «.  F.i..ri  hiu  ever  been  niited,  and  thoy 
have  won  for  IhemseWcs  an  vi.  .,,,:J...l  n  i.nuijon  for  their  do uiB»tio  accomplish-' 
ments.      Tiiis  work  \r  m    inai:.!.!,:  addition  to  the  domestii:  '.iteraturc  of  c 
countrj,      I  have  .inl  .-.njic  of  the  recipes,  and  tordially  indorse  Ihu  book, 
WuDd  and  printed. 

Mra.  J. 


It  in  also  hand 


The  Arthur  and  Elizabeth 

SCHLESINGER  LIBRARY 

on  the  History  of  Women 

in  America 


Gift  of 
Julia  Child 


ExKCUTiTB  Manbioh,  WASHINGTON,  Bec.  20,  1878. 

I  am  very  much  pleased  with  it. 

Mn.  B.  B.  HATBS. 


From  the  wife  of  Sbcretart  or  Btatx  W.  M.  Eyabtb  : 

Wabhinoton  Oitt,  Dec.  19, 1878. 

E^ery  lady  who  desires  to  learn  some  of  the  secrets  which  have  made  so 

eoTiable  a  reputation  for  the  matrons  of  "Old  Virginia"  should  possess  this 

book. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  BVABTS. 


#hni  the  wife  of  U.  8.  Sbhatoe  Gbobgb  H.  PurDLVroN,  Ohio: 

OiNOiNNATi,  Dec.  14, 1878. 

Mrs.  Tyree's  new  cook-book,  '*  Housekeeping  in  Old  Virginia,"  containing 

the  garnered  experience  of  most  of  the  n<»ted  housewives  of  the  **01d  Dominion," 

1  ind  admirable,  and  regard  it  truly  as  a  valuMble  work. 

Please  send  me  two  more  copies. 

ALICE  KEY  PENDLETON. 


TAnn  the  wife  of  Govsrnob  Oiorob  B.  MoClellan,  New  Jersey : 

Tbsnton,  N.  J.,  Dec.  28,  1878. 

I  believe  this  book  contains  Just  what  American  housewives  need  and  will 

appreciate. 

E.  M.  McOLELLAN. 


Fmm  the  wife  ef  U.  8.  Bknaiob  M.  C.  Butlkr,  South  CaroUna: 

Washington  City,  Dec.  28,  1878. 

The  matrons  of  the  "  Old  Dominion  "  have  won  an  enviable  reputation  for 

their  superb  cooking  and  their  delight  Ail  housekeeping,  and  the  new  book — 

"Housekeeping  in  Old  Virginia" — compiled  from  choice  recipes,  furnished  by 

two  hundred  and  fifty  of  Virginia's  t>est-known  women,  will,  I  am  sure,  gladden 

the  hearts  of  the  housewives  of  our  country. 

Mrs.  M.  G.  BUTLEB. 


Vka  the  wife  of  U.  8.  8bn  atob  John  B.  Qobdon,  Qeoigla : 

Washington  Citt,  Deo.  18, 1878. 

If  the  housewives  of  our  country  will  be  guided  by  this  book,  I  am  satiafiM 

tint  dyspepsia  and  kindred  diseases  will  be  less  common  in  the  land,  and  at  the 

BUM  time  they  will  learn  how  to  prepare  the  food  for  which  Virginians  are  ^o 

odebnted. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  OOBDON. 


A  Reprint  of  the  Original 

Favorite  Recipes  Press,  Inc.  ©  MCMLXV 

Post  Office  Box  18324 

Louisville,  Kentucky  40218 


HOUSEKEEPING 


IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


CONTAINING 


Contributions  from  Two  Hundred  and  Fifty  of  Virginia's 

Noted  Housewives,  Distinguished  for  their  Skill 

IS  THE  Culinary  Art  and  other  Branches 

of  Domestic  Economy. 


BDITBD  BY 


MARION  CABELL  TYREE. 


"Who  can  find  a  Yirtuous  woman?  for  her  pried  is  far  abov6  rubies.  .  .  .  Sh« 
looketh  well  to  the  ways  of  her  household,  and  eateth  not  the  bread  of  idleness/'— 
Prw.  XXXI,  xo,  37. 


LOUISVILLE,  KY.: 
JOHN  P,  MORTON  AND  COMPANY. 

1879 


4  VI.  ^' 


GOPTBIOHTKD  BT 

JOHN  P.  MORTON  AND  COMPANY. 

1879. 


w.n 


GENERAL  CONTENTS. 


PAOI 


Preface 7 

List  of  CcntributoTs 11 

Bread 19 

Coffee,  Tea,  and  Cliocolate 61 

Milk  and  Butter 65 

Soup 68 

Oysters  and  other  Shell  Fish 85 

Fish 97 

Game 107 

Meats 114 

Beef  and  Veal. 136 

Mutton  and  Lamb 168 

Poultry 176 

Salads. 190 

Sauces 200 

Brunswick  Stews,  Giiinho,  and  Side  Dishes 211 

Eggs 232 

Vegetables 238 

Pickles  and  Catsups 265 

Cake 804 


▼i  OOKTENTB. 


»A0« 


Idng 848 

Gingerbread* 350 

Small  Cakes 358 

Puddings 366 

Pudding  Sauces 401 

Pastry 404 

Fritters  and  Pancakes 416 

Jelly,  Blanc-mange,  Charlotte  Busse,  Baked  Custard, 

Creams,  and  Miscellaneous  Desserts 417 

Ice  Cream  and  Frozen  Custard 430 

Fruit  Desserts 442 

Preserves  and  Fruit  Jellies 443 

Confectionery 458 

Wines 461 

Beverages,  Cordials,  etc 468 

The  Sick-Koom — Diet  and  Kemedies  for  the  Sick. . .  476 

House-cleaning,  etc 497 

Recipes  for  Restoring  Old  Clothes,  Setting  Colore, 

Removing  Stains,  etc 505 

Miscelliuieoiis  Recipes 508 


PREFACE. 


TiKOiNiAy  or  the  Old  Dominion,  as  her  children  deliglit  to 
call  her,  has  always  been  famed  for  the  style  of  her  living. 
Tanght  by  the  example  of  her  royal  colonial  governors,  and 
the  numerous  adhei-ents  of  King  Charles,  who  brought  hither 
in  their  exile  the  graces  and  luxuriousness  of  his  brilliant 
court,  she  became  noted  among  the  colonics  for  tlic  piincely 
hospitality  of  her  people  and  for  the  beauty  and  richness  of  their 
living.  But  when  at  length  her  great  son  in  the  House  of 
Burgesses  sounded  the  cry  of  war,  and  her  people  mode  haste 
to  gird  themselves  for  the  long  strugg1<>,  Iter  daughters,  not  to 
be  ontdono  either  in  services  or  patriotism,  set  about  at  once 
the  inauguration  of  a  plan  of  rigid  reti*enchment  and  reform  in 
the  domestic  economy,  while  at  the  same  time  exhibiting  to 
their  sisters  a  noble  example  of  devotion  and  self-sacrifice. 

Tearing  the  glitteiing  arms  of  King  Oeorge  from  their  side* 
boards,  and  casting  them,  with  their  costly  i)]ate  and  jewels,  as 
offerings  into  the  lap  of  the  Continental  Congress,  they  intro- 
duced in  their  homes  that  new  style  of  living  in  which,  discard* 
ing  all  the  showy  extravagance  of  the  old,  and  retaining  only 


▼lU  PBEFACB. 

its  inexpensive  graceB,  they  succeeded  in  perfecting  that  sygtem 
which,  surviving  to  this  day,  has  ever  been  noted  for  its  beau- 
tiful and  elegant  simplicity. 

This  system,  which  combines  the  thrifty  frugality  of  New 
England  with  the  less  rigid  style  of  Carolina,  has  been  justly 
pronounced,  by  the  throngs  of  admirers  who  have  gathered  from 
all  quarters  of  the  Union  around  the  generous  boards  of  her 
illustrious  sons,  as  the  very  perfection  of  domestic  art. 

It  is  the  object  of  the  compiler  of  this  book,  for  she  does  not 
claim  the  title  of  author,  to  biing  within  the  reach  of  every 
Ameiican  housekee[)er  who  may  desire  it,  the  domestic  prin- 
ciples and  pi*actices  of  these  famous  Virginia  homes.  In  doing 
this  she  has  not  sought  to  puraue  the  plan  adopted  by  so  many 
authors  of  such  books — to  depend  upon  her  own  authorship  for 
her  rule.  She  confesses  that  in  this  matter  her  labors  have 
been  largely  editorial. 

Through  a  long  life  it  has  been  her  good  fortune  to  be  a  fre- 
quent visitor,  and  often  the  intimate  guest  and  kinswoman,  at 
many  of  these  homes ;  and  she  has  sought,  by  the  opportunities 
thus  afforded,  and  guided  by  her  own  extensive  experience  as  a 
housekeeper,  to  gather  and  beiuvt  from  these  numerous  sources 
those  things  which  seemed  to  her  best  and  most  useful  to  the 
practical  housewife,  and  which,  carefully  observed,  would  bring 
the  art  within  reach  of  all  who  have  the  ambition  to  acquire  it. 

It  will  be  seen  that  she  is  indebted  to  near  250  contributors 
to  her  book      Among  these  will  be  found  many  names  famouB 


FB3EFA0E.  12 

through  the  land.  Associated  with  them  will  be  discovered 
others  of  less  national  celebrity,  but  who  have  acquired  among 
their  neighbors  an  equally  mnrited  distinction  for  the  beautiful 
order  and  delightful  cuiHine  of  their  homes. 

The  labors  of  the  writer  have  been  greatly  lightened  by  the 
kindness  of  these  contributors.  And  she  desires  in  this  public 
way  to  renew  her  thanks  for  the  aid  which  they  have  given  her, 
but  even  mere  for  the  goodness  which  prompts  them,  at  cost  of 
their  sensitiveness,  to  allow  her  to  append  their  names  to  the 
i''eci])es  which  they  furnish. 

The  book,  after  great  care  in  its  preparation,  is  now  offered 
to  the  public  with  much  confidence.  All  that  is  here  presented 
has  been  so  thoroughly  tested,  and  approved  by  so  many  of  the 
beet  housekeepers  in  Virginia,  that  she  feels  it  must  meet  with 
a  cordial  and  very  general  reception  at  the  hands  of  all  accom- 
plished housewives  throughout  the  land,  and  Avill  supply  a  long- 
felt  and  real  need. 

If  she  shall  thus  succeed  in  disseminating  a  knowledge  of  the 
practice  of  the  most  admirable  gystem  of  domestic  art  known  in 
our  country  y  if  she  sliall  succeed  in  lightening  the  labors  of  the 
housewife  by  placing  in  her  reach  a  guide  which  will  be  found 
always  trusty  and  reliabU  y  if  she  shall  thus  make  her  tasks 
lighter  and  home-life  sweeter ;  if  she  shall  succeed  in  contribut- 
ing something  to  the  health  of  American  children  by  instvict- 
ing  their  mothei'S  in  the  art  of  prc]>anng  light  and  wholesome 
and  palatable  food  ;  if  sliCy  above  fdl^  sJiaU  sticceed  in  uiaking 

American  homes  more  aUractive  to  A  merican  husbandSy  and  spare 
1* 


X  PKRFAOK. 

i^iem  a  resort  to  Iiotels  and  saloons  for  those  simple  luxuries  lohicfi 
tl^r  wives  know  not  how  to  provide/  if  she  shall  thus  add  to  the 
comfort,  to  the  health  and  happy  coiiteutuieut  of  these,  she  will 
liave  proved  in  some  measure  a  public  benefactor,  and  will  feel 
amply  repaid  for  all  the  labor  her  work  has  cost. 

MARION  CABELL  TYREE. 
LTMOHBUROf  Va  ,  January.  loTT. 


LIST  OF  CONTRIBUTORS. 


Ubs.  Robert  Albxandeb.  Fredericksburg,  Yai 

Miis.  John  J.  Amblbr Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Judos  Ajtdbrson Lexington. 

Mrs.  Oharix)tte  Armstroho Kichmond. 

Miss  Kannib  Averktt Amherst  Co. 

"  Mozis  Addums." Richmond. 

Mrs.  R  T.  H.  Adams Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Joira  T.  Anderson Virginia. 

Mrs.  John  Thompson  Brown Nelson  Co. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  J.  Barbour Orange  Co. 

Mrs.  Judge  Barton Fredericksburg. 

Miss  Mart  Bella  Bbale Kichmond. 

Mrs.  Ouville  Bell Liberty, 

Mrs.  C-  8.  Bliss Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  8.  Brady Wheeling,  West  Va. 

Mrs.  Emma  Breckinridob Fincastlc. 

ICrs.  Julia  Breckikridgb " 

Mrs.  Brinckbrhovf Fredericksburg 

Mrs.  John  Brooke. Lexington. 

Mrs.  M.  B Warrenton,  Fauquier  Co, 

Mrs.  Brucb Virginia. 

Mrs.  Marcus  R  Buck Front  Koyal.  Warren  Co. 

Mits.  Armstrad  Burwell Franklin  Ck>. 


•  • 


Kll  LIST  OF  00IITBIBUT0S8. 

Mrs.  CuabijES  W.  Bubwell Ellicot  City,  Md 

Mrs.  Wm.  Burwell Georgia. 

Mrs.  Charles  Button Lyncbburg 

Dr.  Burnet Montgomery,  Ala 

Mrs.  George  A.  Burks Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Broaddus Mecklenburg  Co. 

Mrs.  Byrd Virginia. 

Mrs.  WiiJiiAM  Cameron Petersburg. 

Mrs.  Clara  Cabell Nelson  Ca 

Mrs.  Louis  W.  Cabell. Buckingham  Co 

Mrs.  Maboaret  C.  Cabell •*  " 

Mrs.  H.  Coalter  CABiiiLr^. Richmond. 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  Campbell Bidtimore,  Md. 

Mrs.  Thos.  Campbell Bedford  Co. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Campbell *•       " 

Mrs.  Eliza  H.  Carrinoton Halifax  Co. 

Mrs.  Paul  Carrinoton "       " 

Mrs.  Fannie  Carrinoton Charlotte  Co. 

Mrs.  Henry  Carrinoton "        " 

Mrs.  Theo.  M.  Carson Lynchburg 

Mr.  Edward  Camm  " 

Mrs.  Fannie  Chalmers " 

Mrs.  Addison  Cobbs Charleston,  West  Va. 

Mrs.  Alice  Coleman Halifax  Co. 

Mb&  Dr.  Coleman Williamsburg. 

Mrs.  John  L.  Coles Northumberland  Co 

MiiS.  Peyton  Coles Albemarle  Co. 

Mrs.  Tucker  Coles **  " 

Mrs.  Raleioh  Colston Richmond. 

Mrs.  H.  p.  Chew Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  Camillus  Christian Lynchburg. 

Db.  E.  a.  Craighill ** 

Mb&  D.  Cone Warren  Co 


•  • 


LIST   OF   CX)NTRlBUTOK8.  XIU 

JCbs.  Dayib Chcslerficid  Co 

Hsa.  Robert  J.  Dayis Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Mary  M.  Damb DanYille. 

Mrs.  John  B.  Danoerfield Alexandria. 

Mrs.  Addison  M  Dayies. Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Horatio  Dayis PittsylYania  Ca 

Mrs.  Frank  Deane Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Jos.  Deans Gloucester  Co. 

Mrs.  Judge  Asa  Dickinson Prince  Edward  Co. 

Mrs.  Mblyille  Dunn Richmond. 

Mrs.  Andrew  Dunn Petersburg 

Mrs.  Dxtke Suffolk  Co. 

Miss  D.  D Norfolk. 

Miss  Didlakb Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Maria  Edmonds Prince  Edward  Co. 

Mrs.  John  T.  Edwards Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Early " 

Mrs.  Early " 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Ewino Harrisonburg. 

Mrs.  Elak Virginia. 

Mrs.  Fitz  Hugh " 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Ficklin Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  F.  F.  Fitzgerald. FarmYille. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Fiogat. Fincastle. 

Mrs.  Col.  Forsberg Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Grayes Kentucky. 

Mrs.  Caroline  Garland Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Mary  L.  Garland. •* 

Mrs.  John  F.  Gardner Nelson  Ca 

Mrs.  Judge  Geo.  H.  Gilmer PittsylYania  Co. 

Mrs.  F.  D.  Goodwin Wythevillc. 

Mrs.  Judge  Goolrick. Fredericksburg 

Mrs.  Jahb  V.  Goolrick. " 


XIV  LIST  OF  OONTKtBDTOBS. 

Mrs.  K  p.  Goooin Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  SufiAN  Qoggin Bedford  Co 

Mbs.  Nbwton  Qobdon Lynchburg. 

Mrs   Isabella  Gilmbr " 

Maa  Isabella  Harrison Charles  City  Co. 

Msa  £i«yiRA  Hbnrt Charlotte  Co. 

Mrs   E.  WmsTON  Henry "  " 

Mrs.  Mart  G.  Hardino Staunton. 

Mks.  FRsa  HiCKBY Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  John  W.  Holt " 

Mrs.  Ann  Holt. Liberty. 

Mrs.  Ferdinanb  C.  Huiter. Lynchburg. 

Mits.  J.  P.  Hubbard Shepherdstown,  West  Va 

Mrs.  Wm.  L.  Hyland Parkersburg,  West  Va. 

Mrs.  Edward  Ingle Hoanoke  Co. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Irby New  Orleans,  La. 

Mrs.  Joseph  M.  Jones Kentucky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Jones Bedford  Ca 

Mrs.  Arthur  Johns Northampton  Ca 

Mrs.  Col.  Johnson Lexington. 

Mrs.  J.  Johnson Abingdon. 

Mrs.  Thomas  L.  Johnson Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  David  Kent Pulaski  Co. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Kincklb Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Kinsolvino Halifax  Co. 

Mrs.  Knox Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Henry  Latham Lynchburg. 

Mr.  K Norfolk. 

Mrs.  L.  D.  Leighton Petersburg. 

Mrs.  Col.  Augustine  LsrrwioH. Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Gen.  Robert  E.  Lee. **  Arlington,'*  Westmoreland  Co 

Miss  Mildred  C.  Lbe Lexington 

Mbs.  Got.  John  Letcher ** 


LIST  OF  00NTRIBUT0B8.  Z^ 

Mk&  Db.  Robert  T.  Lemmon Campbell  Co 

Andrew  Lewis HArrisonbuig 

James  Lasohornb Lynchburg 

Miss.  John  A.  Lanohornb Montgomery  Co 

Hbs.  Nanmtb  a.  Lakoiioiinu Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Richard  T.  Lact " 

Mb&  M.  L. 

Mrs.  Geo.  D.  Lawrence. Miss. 

Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Little Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  L Lynchburg. 

lu  D.  L Albemarle  Co. 

Mrs.  Gov.  Marts Fredericksburg. 

Mbs.  John  Mason " 

Mrs.  O.  Massib Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Mrs.  Patrick  Massib Nelson  Co. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Meeh. Abingdon. 

Mna  John  F.  Miller Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Charles  L.  C.  Minor Blacksburg. 

Mrs.  C.  C.  McPhail ..Charlotte  Co. 

Mrs.  John  R  McDanibl Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Mart  McKutt. Prince  Edward  Co 

Mrs.  R  E.  Mbadb Petersburg. 

Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Mosbt Amherst  Co. 

Mrs.  Alice  Murrel Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Wm.  McFarland Missouri 

Mrs.  C.  V.  McGee Ala 

Mrs.  McGavock Pulaski  Co. 

Gbn.  M Virginia. 

Mrs.  Jambs  J.  Moore Richmond. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Newton Norfolk. 

Miss  Fannib  Nelson Torktown 

Mrs.  Geo.  Nichols Bedford  Co 

Mrs.  Qsx.  F.  T.  Nichols New  Qrleansi  La 


jCVi  LIST   OF   CONTiaBU'lX)Ra. 

Mbs.  Chaklm  Norvelt. Lynchburg 

Mi8s  Norwood Richmond 

Mrs.  Robert  L-  Owen Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Gsa  W.  Palmer Saltvill© 

Mrs.  R  L.  Page Norfolk 

Mrs.  David  Pierce Wythevillcv 

Mrs.  John  D.  Powell Portsmouth. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Ballard  Preston Montgomery  Co 

MRa  Gen.  Robert  Pre8ix)n •*  " 

Mrs.  Jas.  Preston  •*  " 

Mrs.  Preston Virginia- 

Mrs.  Annis  E.  Preston Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Richard  PoiiLARD ** 

Mrs.  James  P.  Payne «* 

Miss  Euza  Payne " 

Mrs.  Annie  Phillips Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  Edmund  H.  Pendleton Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Mrs.  Price Charlotte  Co. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Parker Chesterfield  Co. 

Mrs.  Reid Norfolk. 

Mrs.  Mattie  Reid Winchester. 

Mrs.  David  8.  Read Roanoke  Co. 

Mrs.  Wm.  C.  Rives Albemarle  Co. 

Mrs.  J.  Henry  Rives Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Roane. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Robinson 

Mrs.  W.  Russell  Robinson Richmond. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Edward  T.  Robinson " 

Mrs.  John  Roberts Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  E.  M  Rugolks " 

Mb8.  Dr.  Sale Lil>erty. 

Mrs.  Geo.  D.  Saunders Buckingham  Co 

Mrs.  Ann  Saunders Lynchburg 


cc 


IJ8T  OF  OONTRIBUTOB8.  XVll 

Mkb.  Jajces  a.  Seddok. Ck>ochland  Co 

Mrs.  Dr.  Sbmflr Ala. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Service Alexandria 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Shields Richmond. 

Mrs.  Jas.  W.  Shields King  Geo.  Co. 

MRa  H.  T.  SiLVERTHORN LynchbuTg. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Strother " 

Mr.  Wm.  A.  Strother. " 

Mrs.  John  W.  Stone " 

Mrs.  John  F.  Slaughter *' 

Miss  Lillib  Slaughter. " 

Mr&  Kate  Slaughter " 

Mrs.  Judge  Spence " 

Mrs.  Henderson  Suter Liberty. 

Mrs.  Harriet  Stansburt New  Orleans,  La* 

Mrs.  Shannon Miss 

Miss  Ellen  Shute New  Orleans,  La 

Miss  Rebecca  Smith Norfolk. 

Mrs.  Charles  Sharp " 

Mrs.  Sparks A^'irginia 

Mrs.  Col.  Smith Pittsylvania  Co 

Mrs.  a.  H.  M.  Taliaferro Orange  Co 

Mrs.  Mary  W.  Taylor Campbell  Co 

Mrs.  Ma-iou  Tnos.  L.  Taylor CjimplM'll  C.  H 

Miss  Julia  Thompson Williamsburg. 

Mna  C.  L.  Thompson Richmond. 

Mrs.  J.  Hanson  Thomas Baltimore,  Md. 

Mrs.  Eli  Tutwiler Lexington. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Tyree.      Lynchburg 

Mrs.  John  H.  Tykeb     *' 

Mrs.  Jas.  Taylor Fredericksburg, 

Miss  Edmonia  Taylor Orange  Co. 

Mrm.  Tucker Virginia 

2 


•  •• 


XYIU  LIST  OF  G0NTRIBUT0B8. 

Mbs.  Judge  Watsok Abingdon 

Mbs.  Dr.  Thos.  Walksb Lynchburg 

Mfis.  OoL,  W. " 

Mrs.  Col.  Rorbrt  E.  Withbbs Wytheville. 

Mrs   Philip  T.  Withers Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Dr.  R  W.  Withers Campbell  Co. 

Mrs.  Edmuio)  Withers Nelson  Co. 

Mrs.  Dr.  WnroFiSLD Maryland 

Mrs.  R  M.  C.  Winofibld Portsmouth. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Wheat Winchester. 

Mrs.  Judos  Wharton Liberty. 

Miss  Emilt  Whitehead Norfolk. 

Mna  Robert  Whttbhead Nelson  Co 

Mrs.  John  M.  Warwick Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Wm.  N.  Welford *' 

Mr.  Philip  Withers •* 

Miss  Kate  Wilson " 

Db.  Thos.  L.  Walker «« 

Nannie  8.  Lanohornb •• 


HOUSEKEEPING  IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


BREAD. 

Bread  is  so  vitally  important  an  element  in  our  nourishment 
that  I  have  assigned  to  it  the  first  place  in  my  work.  Truly,  as 
Frederika  Bremer  says,  '^  when  the  bread  rises  in  the  oven,  the 
heart  of  the  housewife  rises  with  it,"  and  she  might  have  added 
that  the  heart  of  the  housewife  sinks  in  sympathy  with  the 
sinking  bread. 

£  would  say  to  housewives,  be  not  daunted  by  one  failure,  nor 
by  twenty.  Resolve  that  you  will  have  good  bread,  and  never 
cease  striving  after  this  result  till  you  have  effected  it.  If  per- 
sons without  bi*ains  can  accomplish  this,  why  cannot  yoii  ?  £ 
would  recommend  that  the  housekeeper  acquire  the  practice  as 
well  as  the  theory  of  bread-making.  In  this  way,  she  will  be 
able  to  give  more  exact  directions  to  her  cook  and  to  more 
readily  detect  and  rectify  any  blemish  in  the  bread.  Besides,  if 
circumstances  should  throw  her  out  of  a  cook  for  a  short  time, 
she  is  then  prepared  for  the  emergency.  In  this  country 
fortunes  are  so  i-apidly  made  and  lost,  the  vicissitudes  of  life 
are  so  sudden,  that  we  know  not  what  a  day  may  bring  forth. 
It  is  not  uncommon  to  see  elegant  and  refined  women  brought 
suddenly  face  to  face  with  emergencies  which  their  practical 
knowledge  of  household  economy  and  their  brave  hearts  enable 
them  to  firmly  meet  and  overcome. 

To  return  to  the  bi*ead  question,  however.  Good  flour  is  an 
Indispensable  requisite  to  good  bread.     Flour,  whether  old  or 


20  BREAD. 

new,  shoald  always  be  sunned  and  aired  before  being  used.  In 
the  morning,  get  out  the  flour  to  be  made  up  at  night  for  next 
moming^s  breakfast.  Sift  it  in  a  traj  and  put  it  out  in  the  sun, 
or,  if  the  day  is  damp,  set  it  near  the  kitchen  fire.  Only  experi 
enoe  will  enable  you  to  be  a  good  judge  of  flour.  One  test  is  tc 
rub  the  dry  flour  between  your  fingers,  and  if  the  grains  feel 
round,  it  is  a  sign  that  the  flour  is  good.  If  after  trying  a 
baiTel  of  flour  twice,  you  find  it  becomes  wet  and  sticky,  after 
being  made  up  of  the  proper  consistency,  you  had  better  then 
return  it  to  your  grocer. 

The  best  flour  is  worthless  without  good  yeast.  Yeast  made 
up  in  the  morning  ought  to  be  fit  for  use  at  night.  It  should 
be  foamy  and  frothy,  with  a  scent  slightly  like  ammonia.  After 
closely  following  the  directions  for  yeast-making,  given  in  the 
subsequent  pages,  the  bread  will  be  apt  to  succeed,  if  the  flour 
employed  is  good. 

There  is  a  great  art  in  mixing  bread,  and  it  is  necessary  to 
observe  a  certain  rotation  in  the  process.  To  make  a  small 
quantity  of  bi*ead,  first  sift  one  quart  of  flour;  into  that  sift  a 
teas|K)onful  of  salt,  next  rub  in  an  Irish  potato,  boiled  and 
mashed  fine,  then  add  a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and 
next  a  half  teacup  of  yeast  in  which  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
white  sugar  have  been  stirred.  (Under  no  circumstauces  use 
soda  or  saleratus  in  your  light  dough. )  Then  make  into  a  soft 
dough  with  cold  water  in  summer,  and  lukewarm  in  winter. 
Knead  without  intermission  for  half  an  hour,  hy  ilie  dock 
Otherwise  G.ve  minutes  appear  to  be  a  half  hour  when  bread  is 
being  kneaded  or  beaten.  Then  place  it  in  a  stone  crock,  greased 
with  lard  at  the  bottom,  and  set  it  to  rise.  In  summer,  apply  no 
artifii;ial  heat  to  it,  but  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  As  bread  rises 
fQudi  more  quickly  in  summer  than  in  winter,  you  must  make 
allowance  for  this  difference,  during  the  respectivo  seasons. 
The  whole  process,  including  both  the  first  and  second  rising,  may 
be  accomplished  in  seven  or  eight  hours  in  summer,  though  thui 
will  be  regulated  partly  by  the  flour,  as  some  kinds  of  flour  rise 


BRKAP.  21 

mnch  more  qnickly  than  othei-s.  In  summer  you  may  make  it 
lip  at  nine  o^clock  p.m.,  for  an  eight  o^clock  breakfast  next 
morning, but  in  winter,  make  it  up  at  seven  p.m.,  and  then  set  it 
on  a  shelf  under  which  a  lighted  coal-oil  lamp  is  placed.  If  you 
can  have  a  tht'ee-cornered  shelf  of  slate  or  sheet-iron,  placed  in  a 
corner  of  the  kitchen,  just  above  the  bread  block,  it  will  bo  all 
the  better,  though  a  common  wooden  shelf,  made  very  thin,  will 
answer,  where  you  cannot  get  the  other.  The  coal-oil  lamp 
underneath  without  running  the  risk  of  burning  the  shelf  (it 
wooden),  will  keep  the  bread  gently  heated  all  night,  and  will 
answer  the  double  pui'pose  of  keeping  a  light  burning,  which 
most  persons  like  to  do  at  night,  and  which  they  can  do  with 
scarcely  any  exi>ense,  by  using  a  coal-oil  lamp. 

Never  knead  bread  a  second  time  in  the  morning,  as  this 
ruins  it.  Handle  lightly  as  possible,  make  into  the  desired 
filiapes  and  put  into  the  moulds  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked. 
Grease  your  hands  before  doing  this,  so  as  to  grease  the  loaf  or 
each  roll  as  you  put  it  in,  or  else  dip  a  feather  in  lard  and  pass 
lightly  over  the  bi-ead  just  before  putting  it  in  the  oven  to 
bake.  Let  it  be  a  little  warmer  during  the  second  rise  than 
during  the  first.  Always  shaj)e  and  put  in  the  moulds  two 
hours  before  breakfast.  If  hot  bread  is  desired  for  dinner,  re- 
serve |>art  of  the  breakfast  dough,  keeping  it  in  the  kitchen  in 
winter,  and  in  the  refrigerator  in  summer  till  two  houi*s  before 
dinner. 

In  baking,  set  the  bread  on  the  floor  of  the  stove  or  range, 
never  on  the  shelf.  Always  turn  up  the  damper  l)efore  baking 
any  kind  of  bread.  As  you  set  the  bread  in  the  stove,  lay  a 
pif>ce  of  stiff  writing  paper  over  it  to  keep  it  from  browning  be- 
fore heating  through.  Leave  the  door  ajar  a  few  minutes,  then 
remove  the  ]>aper  and  shut  the  door.  When  the  top  of  the  loa» 
is  a  light  amber  color,  put  back  the  paper  that  the  bread  may 
not  brown  too  much  while  thoroughly  baking.  Turn  the  mould 
:i round  so  that  each  j^art  may  be  exposed  to  equal  heat.  Ilavo 
an  empty  baking  pai\  on  the  shelf  above  the  bread,  to  prevent  if 


23  BRKAD. 

from  blistering :  some  persons  fill  the  pan  with  water,  but  I  think 
this  is  a  bad  plan,  aa  the  vapor  injures  the  bread.  When  thor- 
oughly done,  wrap  the  bread  a  few  moments  in  a  clean,  thick, 
oread  towel  and  send  to  the  table  with  a  napkin  over  it,  to  be 
kept  on  till  each  person  has  taken  his  seat  at  table. 

I  would  suggest  to  hoitsekeepers  to  have  made  at  a  tinner's, 
a  sheet-iron  shape  for  bread,  eight  inches  long,  four  and  one-half 
inches  wide,  and  five  and  one-half  deep.  This  is  somewhat  like 
a  brickbat  in  shape,  only  deeper,  and  is  very  desirable  for  bread 
that  is  to  be  cut  in  slices,  and  also  for  bread  that  is  to  be  pulled 
off  in  slices.  A  quart  of  fiour  will  make  eight  large  rolls,  six 
inches  high,  for  this  mould,  and  three  or  four  tnrnovei'S.  It  is  a 
nice  plan  after  making  out  the  eight  rolls  to  roll  them  with 
greased  hands  till  each  one  will  reach  across  the  pan  (four  and 
one-half  inches),  making  eight  slices  of  bread  which  will  pull  off 
beautifully  when  well  done,  and  thus  save  the  task  of  slicing 
with  a  knife.     It  requires  an  hour  to  bake  this  bread  properly. 

Do  not  constantly  make  bre^  in  the  same  shapes :  each 
morning,  try  to  have  some  variation.  Plain  light  bread  dough 
may  be  made  into  loaves,  rolls,  twist,  turnovei*s,  light  biscuit, 
etc.,  and  these  changes  of  shape  make  a  pleasant  and  appetizing 
variety  in  the  appeai*ance  of  the  table.  The  addition  of  tlii^ee 
oggs  to  plain  light  bread  dough  will  enable  you  to  make  French 
rolls,  mufiins,  or  Sally-Lunn  of  it.  As  bread  is  far  more  appe- 
tizing, baked  in  pi*etty  shapes,  I  would  suggest  the  snow-ball 
shape  for  muffins  and  egg  bread.  Very  pratty  iron  8lia|)cs 
(eight  or  twelve  in  a  gi*oup,  joined  together)  may  be  procui*ed 
from  almost  any  tinner. 

If  you  should  have  indifferent  fiour  of  which  you  cannot  get 
lid,  bear  in  mind  that  it  will  sometimes  make  excellent  beaten 
biscuit  when  it  will  not  make  good  light  bread.  In  making 
beaten  buscuit,  always  put  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  piece  of  lard 
the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  teacup  of  milk  to  a  quart  of  flour, 
adding  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  ilongh :  no  other 
iiigrcdicMits  are  admissible.     Make  the  dough  mucli  stiffer  than 


BRBAD.  23 

for  other  breads,  beat  steadily  a  half  hour,  5y  tJie  dock.  Cut  with 
a  biscuit  cutter  or  shape  by  hand,  being  careful  to  have  the 
shape  of  each  alike  and  perfect.  Make  them  not  quite  half  an 
inch  thick,  as  they  rise  in  baking.  Do  not  let  them  touch  each 
other  in  the  pan,  and  Jet  the  oven  be  very  bot.  It  is  well  not 
to  hare  beaten  biscuit  and  light  bread  baked  at  the  same  time, 
as  they  require  different  degrees  of  heat.  When  two  kinds  of 
bread  are  required,  try  to  have  two  such  as  i-equire  the  same 
amount  of  heat,  l&gg  bread  and  com  muffins  require  the  same 
degree  of  heat  as  beaten  biscuit,  while  Sally-Lunn  and  muffins 
need  the  same  as  light  bread. 

There  is  no  reason  why  the  poor  man  should  not  have  as  well 
prepared  and  palatable  food  as  the  wealthy,  for,  by  care  and 
pains,  the  finest  bread  may  be  made  of  the  simplest  materials, 
and  surely  the  loving  hands  of  the  poor  man's  wife  and  daughter 
will  take  as  much  pains  to  make  his  bread  nice  and  light  as  hire- 
lings will  do  for  the  wealthy.  The  mistake  generally  made  by  per- 
sons in  restricted  circumstances  is  to  make  too  great  a  use  of  soda 
bread,  which  is  not  only  less  wholesome,  but  is  more  expensive 
than  light  bread  or  beaten  biscuit,  as  it  i*equires  more  ingredi- 
ents. The  bread,  coffee  and  meat,  which  constitute  the  poor 
man's  breakfast,  properly  cooked,  furnish  a  meal  fit  for  a  piince. 

The  furnishing  of  the  kit-chen  is  so  important  that  I  must  here 
say  a  few  words  on  the  subject.  First,  the  housekeeper  must 
have  a  good  stove  or  range,  and  it  is  well  for  her  to  have  the 
dealer  at  hand  when  it  is  put  up,  to  see  that  it  draws  well. 
Besides  the  utensils  furnished  with  the  range  or  stove,  she  must 
provide  every  kitchen  utensil  needed  in  cooking.  She  must 
have  a  kitchen  safe, — a  bread  block  in  the  comer,  furnished 
with  a  heavy  iron  beater ;  trays,  sifters  (with  iron  rims)  steam- 
ers, colanders,  a  porcelain  preserving  kettle,  perforated  skim- 
mers and  spoons,  ladles,  long-handled  iron  forks  and  spoons, 
■harp  knives  and  skewers,  graters,  egg  beaters  (the  Dover  is 
the  best),  plenty  of  extra  bread  pans,  dippei-s  and  tins  of  every 
kind,  iron  moulds  for  egg  bread  and  muffins,  wash  pans,  tea 


34  BREAD. 

towels,  bread  towels,  and  hand  towels,  plates,  knives,  forks  and 
spoons  for  use  of  the  servants,  a  pepper  box,  salt  box  and 
dredge  box  (filled),  a  match  safe,  and  last,  but  not  least,  a  clock. 
Try  as  far  as  pORsii)le  to  have  the  utensils  of  metal,  rather  than 
of  wood,  in  cases  where  you  cannot  have  cold  and  hot  water 
conveyed  into  the  kitchen,  always  keep  on  the  stove  a  kettle  ci 
hot  water,  with  a  clean  rag  in  it,  in  which  all  greasy  dishes  and 
kitchen  utensils  may  be  washed  before  being  rinsed  in  the  kitchen 
wash  pan.  Always  keep  your  cook  well  supplied  with  soap, 
washing  mops  and  coarse  linen  dish  rags.  I  have  noticed  that  ii 
you  hem  the  latter,  servants  are  not  so  apt  to  throw  them  away. 
Insist  on  having  each  utensil  cleaned  immediately  after  being 
used.  Have  shelves  and  proper  places  to  put  each  article, 
hooks  to  hang  the  spoons  on,  etc.  If  you  cannot  have  an  oil- 
cloth on  your  kitchen  floor,  have  it  oiled  and  then  it  may  be 
easily  and  quickly  wiped  over  every  morning.  Once  a  week, 
have  the  kitchen  and  every  article  in  it  thoroughly  cleaned. 
First  clean  the  pipe  of  the  stove,  as  the  dust,  soot  and  ashes  fly 
over  the  kitchen  and  soil  everything.  Then  take  the  stove  to 
})ieces,  as  far  as  ])racticable,  cleaning  each  part,  especially  the 
bottom,  as  neglect  of  this  will  prevent  the  bread  from  baking 
well  at  the  bottom.  After  the  stove  is  thoroughly  swept  out, — 
oven  and  all,  a])ply  stove  polish.  I  consider  "  Crumbs  of  Com- 
fort" the  best  preparation  for  this  iinrpose.  It  comes  in  small 
pieces,  each  one  of  which  is  suflicient  to  clean  the  stove  once, 
and  is  thus  less  a])t  to  be  wasted  or  thrown  away  by  servants  than 
stove  polish  that  comes  in  a  mass.  Next  remove  everything 
from  the  kitchen  safe  and  shelves,  which  must  be  scoured  befor* 
i*eplacing  the  utensils  belonging  to  them,  and  these  too  niusl 
first  be  scoured,  scalded,  «nd  wiped  dry.  Then  wash  the  win- 
dows, and  lastly  the  floor,  scouring  the  latter  unless  it  is  oiled, 
in  which  case,  have  it  merely  wiped  over. 

Never  let  a  servant  take  up  ashes  in  a  wooden  vessel.  Keep 
a  shoet-iron  pan  or  scuttle  for  the  purpose.  At  night,  always 
have  the  water  buckets  filled  with  water  and  also  the  kettles, 


HOU8BHOLD  MEAfiUBES — YEAST.  25 

setting  the  latter  on  the  stove  or  range,  in  case  of  sickness  or  any 
emergency  during  the  night.  Have  kindling  wood  at  hand  also, 
so  that  a  fire  may  be  quickly  made,  if  needed. 

Sometimes  a  discoloration  is  observable  in  iron  kettles  or 
other  iron  vessels.  This  may  be  avoided  by  filling  them  with 
hay  before  using  them.  Pour  water  over  the  liay,  set  the  ves- 
sel on  the  fire  and  let  it  remain  till  the  water  boils.  After  this, 
■oour  in  sand  and  ashes — then  wash  in  hot  soap-suds,  after 
srhich  process,  there  will  be  no  danger  of  discoloration. 

Household  Measures. 

Wheat  Flour.     1  lb.  is  1  quart. 
Indian  Meal.     1  lb.  2  oz.  are  1  quart. 
Butter,  when  soft,  1  lb.  is  I  pint. 
Loaf  sugar,  broken,  1  lb.  is  1  quart. 
White  sugar,  powdered,  1  lb.  1  oz.  are  1  (]iiart 
Best  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  2  oz.  are  1  quart. 
Ten  eggs  are  1  lb. 
Flour.     8  quarts  are  1  peck. 
<<         4  pecks  are  1  bushel. 
16  large  tablespoonfuls  are  ^  pint. 
8  large  tables^ioonfuls  are  1  gilL 
2  gills  are  ^  pint. 

A  common  sized  tumbler  holds  ^  pint 
A  tablespoonful  is  i  oz. 
60  drops  are  equal  to  a  teaspoonful. 
4  teaspoonfuls  are  equal  to  1  tablespoonful. 

YEAST. 

Boil  one  quart  of  Irish  potatoes  in  three  quarts  of  water. 

When  done,  take  out  the  potatoes,  one  by  one,  on  a  fork,  peel 

and  mash  them  fine,  in  a  tray,  with  a  large  iron  spoon,  leaving 

the  boiling  water  on  the  stove  during  the  process.     Throw  in 

thife  water  a  handful  of  hops,  which  must  scald,  not  boil,  as  il 

turns  the  tea  very  dark  to  let  the  hops  boil. 

8 


26       IEI8H    rOTATO   TEA8T — ^YEAST  THAT  NEVER  FAIL8. 

A  dd  to  the  masl  ed  potatoes  a  heaping  teacupful  of  powdered 
white  sugar  and  half  a  teacupful  of  salt ;  then  slowly  stir  in  the 
strained  hop  tea,  so  that  there  will  be  no  lumps.  When  milk- 
warm  add  a  teacupful  of  yeast  and  pour  into  glass  fruit  jars,  or 
large,  clear  glass  bottles,  to  fei-meut,  being  careful  not  to  close 
them  tightly.  Set  in  a  warm  place  in  wiiiter,  a  cool  one  in  sum- 
mer. In  six  hours  it  will  be  ready  for  use,  and  at  the  end  of 
that  time  the  jar  or  bottle  must  be  securely  closed.  Keep  in  a 
cold  room  in  winter,  and  in  the  refrigerator  in  summer.  This 
yeast  will  keep  two  weeks  in  winter  and  one  week  in  summer. 
Bread  made  from  it  is  always  sweet. — Mrs,  S,  T, 

Irish  Potato  Yeast. 

1  quart  of  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
^  teacup  of  sugar. 
Put  two  cups  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  and  pour  over  it  three  cups 
of  strong  hop-water,  scalding  hot,  and  stir  it  briskly. 

Tlien  put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  jar  together,  and  when  oool 
enough,  add  a  cup  of  yeast,  or  leaven. 
Set  it  by  the  fire  to  rise. 
It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  five  or  six  houi*s. —  Mrs.  K, 

Another  Hecipe  for  Ye<t8t. 

12  large  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 

1  teacup  of  brown  sugar. 

1  teacup  of  salt. 

1  gallon  of  hop  t^a. 
Mix  the  ingredients  well,  and  when  milk- warm,  add  a  pint  of 
yeast.     Set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.     Put  one  teacupful  of 
this  yeast,  when  risen,  to  two  quarts  of  flour. — Mrs,  Dr,  S. 

Ykast  that  Never  Fmls, 

Boil  twelve  potatoes  in  four  quarts  of  water  till  reduced  to 
three  quarts. 


ALUH  YEAST— LEAVEN.  27 

Then  take  out  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and  throw  into  the 
water  three  handfuls  of  hops. 

When  the  hops  have  boiled  to  a  good  tea,  strain  the  water 
over  the  potatoes,  a  small  quantity  at  a  time,  mixing  them  well 
together. 

Add  one  teacup  of  brown  sugar. 

]  teacup  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger. 

When  milk-warm,  add  yeast  of  the  same  sort  to  make  it  rise. 

Put  it  in  bottles,  or  a  jug,  leaving  it  uncork eii  for  a  day. 

SSet  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Put  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  it  to  a  quart  of  flour,  and 
when  making  up,  boil  a  potato  and  mix  with  it. 

This  yeast  never  sours,  and  is  good  as  long  as  it  lasts. — Mrs. 

A.F. 

Alum  Yeast. 

On  one  [)int  of  flour  pour  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a 
thick  batter,  stirring  it  until  perfectly  smooth,  and  then  let  it 
stand  till  milk-warm. 

Then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1' tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Half  a  teacup  of  yeast. 
After  it  ferments,  add  enough  meal  to  make  it  a  stifl*  dough. 
Let  it  stand  till  it  works,  and  then  spread  it  in  the  shade  to 
dry. 

To  a  quart  of  flour  put  a  tablespoonful  of  crumbs. — Mrs.  P. 

Leaven. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
2  eggs. 

1  potato. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. 


28  EXCELLENT   BREAD   FOB   BREAKFAST. 

Make  the  leaven  soon  after  breakfast  in  winter,  and  at  one 
o'clock  p.  M.  in  summer.  Let  it  be  of  the  consistency  of  bat- 
ter. Put  it  in  a  small  bucket,  in  a  warm  place,  to  rise  till  foui 
o^clock  p.  M.  This  amount  of  leaven  is  sufficient  for  two  quarts 
of  flour.  If  for  loaf  bread,  leave  out  the  ^gs  and  butter. — 
Mrs.  M, 

Excellent  Hkead  fou  Breakfast. 

1  quart  of  Hour. 

Lard  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

1  small  Irish  potato,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  teacup  of  good  yeast,  into  which  put  a  tablespoonful 
of  white  sugar. 

Make  up  a  soft  dough  with  cold  water  in  summer  and  milk- 
warm  water  in  winter.  This  must  be  kneaded  for  thirty  min- 
utes, and  then  set  to  rise,  in  a  cool  })lace  in  summer,  and  a  warm 
one  in  winter;  must  never  be  kept  more  than  milk  warm. 

Two  hours  before  breakfast,  make  the  dough  into  the  desired 
shapes,  handling  it  lightly,  wiUunU  kneading  it,  first  rubbing 
lard  over  the  hands,  and  taking  especial  care  to  grease  the 
bread  on  top.     Then  set  it  to  rise  again. 

Thirty  minutes  are  sufficient  for  baking  it,  unless  it  be  in  the 
form  of  a  loaf  or  rolls,  in  which  case,  it  must  be  baked  fifteen 
minutes  longer.  Excellent  muffins  may  be  made  by  the  above 
receipt,  adding  two  eggs  well  beaten,  so  that  from  the  same 
batch   of  dough  both   plain  bread  and  muffins  may  be  made. 

Iron  moulds  are  best  for  baking. 

For  those  who  prefer  wann  bread  for  dinner,  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  reserve  a  portion  of  the  breakfast  dough,  setting  it 
away  in  a  cool  place  till  two  hours  before  dinner,  then  make 
into  turnovers  or  twist,  set  it  to  rise  and  bake  it  for  dinner,  as 
for  breakfast  Very  nice  on  a  cold  day,  and  greatly  prefei*able 
to  warmed-over  bread. — Mrs,  JS.  T. 


fahily  brbad-— old  yibginia  loaf  bread.  29 

Kecipe  for  Family  Bread. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter. 
2  teas}K>onful8  of  salt. 

Enough  sponge  for  a  two  quart  loaf  of  bread. 
Mix  with  one  pint  of  sweet  milk. 
Make  into  rolls  and  bake  with  veiy  little  fire  under  the  Dven. 
— Mrs.  A.  C. 

Loaf  Bread. 

First  make  a  batter  of  the  following  ingredients. 
1  pint  of  Hour. 
1  teaspoouful  of  salt. 
1  teaspoon ful  of  sugar. 
A  cup  of  water. 
A. cup  of  good  yeast. 
Set  this  to  nse  and  when  risen  work  in  two  pints  of  flour, 
or,  if  the  batter  is  not  sufficient  to  work  up   this  flour,  add  a 
little  water. 

Work  it  smoothly  and  set  it  to  rise. 

When  risen,  add  a  small  piece  of  lard,  work  it  well  again, 
let  it  stand  an  hour  and  then  bake  it  slowly. — Mrs,  P,   ^V, 

Old  Virginia  Loaf  Bread. 

Sponge  for  the  same. 

Boil  one  large  Irish  potato,  until  well  done,  then  peel  and 
mash  it  fine,  adding  a  little  cold  water  to  soften  it.  Stir 
into  it 

1  tea.spoonful  of  brown  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  of  sweet  lard. 
Then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  good  hop  yeast. 
Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  then  put   the  sponge  in  a 
mug  with  a  close-fitting  top,  and   let  it  stand    several  lioiirs  to 


rise. 


Sift  into  the  tray  three  pints  of  the  best  family  flour,  to  w  liich 


80  ANOTHER  BSOIFB  FOE  lOAF  BSBAD. 

add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Then  pour  in  the  sponge  and  add 
enough  cold  water  to  the  flour  to  work  it  up  into  a  rather  stiff 
dough.  Knead  it  till  the  dough  is  smooth,  then  let  it  stand  all 
night  to  rise.  Work  it  over  in  the  morning,  using  just  enoii^h 
flour  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  hands.  Allow  it  one  hour 
to  rise  before  baking  and  one  hour  to  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Then  it  will  be  thoroughly  done  and  well  dried. 

Use  a  little  lard  on  the  hands  when  making  out  the  loaf,  as 
it  keeps  the  crust  from  being  too  hard. — Mrs.  S. 

Another  Recipe  for  Loaf  Bread. 

Good  flour  is  the  first  requisite,  and  next,  good  yeast  and 
sufficient  kneading. 

For  a  loaf  of  oixlinary  size,  use 
2  lbs.  of  flour. 
Lard  tlie  size  of  a  hen's  egg. 
A  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
2  gills  of  yeast. 

Mix  up  these  ingredients  into  a  moderately  stift*  dough,  using 
for  the  purpose,  from  three  gills  to  a  pint  of  water.  Some  flour 
being  more  adhesive  than  others,  you  liave  to  learn  by  experi- 
ence the  exact  amount  of  water  i-equired. 

Knead  the  dough  till  perfectly  smooth,  then  set  it  to  rise,  in 
a  cool  place,  in  summer,  but  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draughts, 
in  winter.  In  the  latter  season  it  is  better  to  keep  a  blanket 
wrapped  around  it. 

This  amount  of  flour  will  rise  to  the  top  of  a  gallon  and  a 
half  jar  or  bucket.  If  it  is  ready  before  time,  stir  it  down  and 
set  it  in  a  cooler  place. 

When  you  put  it  in  the  baking-pan  (in  which  it  will  be  in 
an  inch  of  the  top,  if  the  pan  be  of  a  suitable  size  for  the 
umount  of  flour)  cover  it  well,  or  a  hard  crust  will  form  fi*om 
the  eflects  of  the  atmosphere.  Keep  it  a  little  warmer  during 
the  second  rise  than  during  the  fii-st.  When  reauly  for  baking, 
set  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  it  for  three-quartera  of  an  hour  witb 


LIQHT  BREAD — FRENCH   ROLLS.  31 

a  moileraie  fire,  evenly  kept  up.     It  will  then  come  out  with- 
out sticking,  if  the  pans  are  well  cared  for. — Mrs,  J',  J,  A. 

Light  Bread. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  teacup  of  yeast. 

One  egg,  well  beaten. 

1  pint  of  water. 
Sift  the  flour  and  divide  it  into  three  parts.  Mix  one  third 
in  the  batter,  one  third  in  the  jar  to  rise  in,  and  pour  tlie 
other  third  over  the  batter.  Let  it  stand  two  hours  and  tlien 
work  it  well,  adding  a  small  piece  of  lard  before  baking. — Mrs. 
Dr.  iS. 

Recipe  fob  Hot  Rolls  or  Cold  Loaf  Bread. 

Mix  the  following  ingredients. 
Four  pints  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  fresh  milk. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  hop  yeast. 
Set  it  to  rise  at  eleven  o'clock  in  the  morning,  for  early  tea. 
Make  into  rolls  at  five  o'clock  p.  m.,  and  bake  as  soon  as  risen. 
In  cool  weather,  set  before  the  fire,  both  before  and  after  mak- 
ing it  into  rolls. — Mrs,  S. 

French  Rolls. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  e^s. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  lard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 


32  FKKNCII    ROLLS VELVET   RCiLLS. 

Work  and  knead  it  well  at  night,  and  in  the  mcirning  work 
it  well  again^  make  it  into  rolls,  put  them  in  the  oven  to  take  a 
second  rise,  and  when  risen,  bake  them. — Mrs.  Col,  Wl 

Anot/ier  Jieci])^  for  French  JioUs, 

3  pints  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  yeast. 
1  egg  (beaten  up). 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Mix  up  with  milk  and  warm  water  and  set  to  rise. — 3frs. 
l/r.  K 

Another  Recipe  for  French  JRoUe  or  Twist. 

1  quart  of  lukewarm  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  teacup  of  jeast 

Enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Wlien  very  light,  add  one  beaten  egg  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  butter,  and  knead  in  the  flour  till  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Let 
it  rise  a  second  time,  and,  when  very  light,  roll  out,  cut  in 
strips  and  braid  it.  Bake  thirty  minutes,  on  buttered  tins. — 
m-s.  S. 

Velvet  Rolls. 

Three  pints  of  flour. 
Two  eggs. 

One  teacup  of  sweet  milk. 
One  teacup  of  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  the  same  of  butter. 
Mix  well  and  beat  the  dough  till  it  blisters. 
I  Ait  it  rise,  work  in  a  small  quantity  of  flour,  beat  as  before 
and  make  into  rolls.     After  the  second  rising,  bake  quickly. — 
Hfrs,  Br.  S. 


POOKBTBOOK  BOLLS — TURNOTBBS.  •'^8 

POCKETBOOK  ROLLS. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonftd  of  salt. 

2  teapoonfuls  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  laixl. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
2  eggs. 

Mix  up  these  ingi*edients  with  warm  water,  making  up  the 
dough  at  ten  A.  M.  in  summer  and  eight  a.  ic  in  winter.  Put 
in  half  the  lard  when  it  is  first  worked  up,  and  at  the  second 
working  put  in  the  rest  of  the  lard  and  a  little  more  flour. 

Roll  out  the  dough  in  strips  as  long  and  wide  as  your  hand, 
spread  with  butter  and  roll  up  like  a  pocketbook.  Put  them 
in  buttered  tins,  and,  when  they  are  light,  bake  them  a  light 
brown — Mrs.  X.  C.  O. 

Turnovers. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  large  Irish  potato,  boiled  and  mashed. 

3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
1  teacup  of  milk. 

Rub  the  potato  in  the  flour,  then  the  lard  and  other  ingre- 
dients, making  it  into  a  soft  dough.  Then  set  it  to  lise,  at 
night  if  you  wish  it  for  breakfast  next  morning.  Early  in  the 
morning,  take  off  a  piece  of  dough,  the  size  of  a  biscuit,  roll  it 
out,  about  five  inches  long,  then  turn  it  about  half  over.  When 
you  have  made  up  all  the  dough,  in  shapes  like  this,  place  them 
on  a  dish  or  board,  cover  with  a  napkin  and  set  aside  for  a 
second  rising.  When  ready  to  bake,  di])  a  feather  in  water  and 
pass  over  them  to  prevent  the  crust  being  too  hard.  If  the 
dough  should  be  sour,  knead  in  a  little  soda,  which  will  correct 

it — Mrs,  A,  C. 
2* 


34  TUBNOVEJB6 — SALLY-LTTMM. 

Another  JRecipe  for  Tumoven, 
1  quart  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter. 

1  tablespooiiful  of  yeast. 
Set  it  to  rise,  then  make  them  up  round  and  flat,  greasing 
the  upper  side  with  lard  and  turning  over  one  side.     When 
veil  risen  the  second  time,  bake — Mrs.  I. 

Twist. 

From  the  dough  of  loaf  bread  or  French  rolls,  reserve  enough 
to  make  two  long  strips  or  rolls,  say,  fifteen  inches  long  and 
one  inch  in  diameter.  Rub  lard  well  between  the  hands  before 
handling  and  shaping  these  strips.  Pinch  the  two  ends  so  as  to 
make  them  stick  together.  Twist  them,  pressing  the  other  ends 
together  to  prevent  unrolling. — 3fr8.  /S.  T, 

Pockets. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  cup  of  butter. 
1  cup  of  yeast. 

1  large  Irish  potato,  boiled  and  mashed  into  the  flour. 
Add  the  yeast,  butter  and  eggs,  after  mashing  the  potato  in 
the  flour.     Knead  all  together  and  set  to  i-ise. 

Sally-Lunn. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar. 

Rub  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard  in  equal 

parts,  then  rub  in  aii  Irish  potato,  mashed  fina 
Half  a  teacup  of  yeast. 
3  eggs  well  beaten. 
Make  up  the  dough  to  the  consistency  of  light  bread  dough. 


BALLT-LUSN — ^BBOIPS  FOB  THE  SAME.  35 

WBTOk  water  in  winter,  and  oold  in  Bummer.  Knead  lialf 
an  hour.  When  it  has  risen  light,  handle  lightly,  put  into  a  cake- 
monld  and  bake  without  a  second  kneading. — JIfrt.  tS,  T. 

Another  JUcipe  for  SaUy-lAinn. 

1  qtiart  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 
4  ^^gs  well  beaten. 

2  oz.  of  butter  or  lard. 
1  pint  of  milk. 

Set  it  to  rise  in  the  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked. — Mrs, 

A.  a 

Another  Beoipe  for  SaUt/'JAiam, 

5  pints  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the  same  of  lard. 

3  eggs. 

1  light  teacup  of  yeast. 

2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Use  as  much  milk  in  mixing  as  will  make  a  soft  doiiglu 
Work  this  well,  as  it  gets  only  one  working.  Then  grease  it, 
put  it  in  a  greased  pan,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Bake 
about  an  hour. — Jfr8.  Dr,  T, 

Recipe  far  the  Same. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast 
3  eggs. 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Make  up  with  new  milk  into  a  tolerably  stiff  batter.     Sot 
tt  to  rise  and  when  risen  pour  into  a  mould  and  set  to  rise  again, 
as  light  bread.     Bake  quickly. — Mrs,  Z. 


86         quick  6au<t-lunn — salt  6ulphub  muffinb. 

Quick  Sally-Luhn. 

1  quart  of  flour. 
Half  cup  of  butter. 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  of  milk. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

l>uko  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Muffins. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

6  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. — Mrs.  Dr.  K. 

Sweet  Spring  Muffins. 

Sifb  three  good  pints  of  flour.  Beat  well  six  eggs,  leaving 
out  one  and  a  half  of  the  whites.  Then  beat  into  them  as  much 
flour  as  they  will  take  in  ;  then  add  milk  and  flour  alternately 
(beating  all  the  while)  till  all  the  flour  is  used.  Add  five  table- 
spoonfuls of  yeast,  and  when  this  batter  is  well  beaten,  stir  into 
it  two  ounces  of  melted  butter,  cooled  but  liquid.  The  batter 
must  be  as  stifl*  as  can  be  beaten  with  an  iron  spoon.  Bake  in 
a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  L. 

Salt  Sulphur  Muffins. 

Work  together,  about  twelve  o'clock  in  the  day,  one  pint  of 
yeast,  half  a  pint  of  water,  six  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter  und 
enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff  enough  not  to  stick  to  the 
fingers.  After  the  dough  is  risen,  make  it  out  in  biscuit  and 
allow  half  an  hour  or  more  for  them  to  rise  before  baking. — 
Mrs.  L. 


8ufeki0b  muffins — ^muffins.  37 

Superior  Muffins. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  wbite  sugar. 

Kub  in  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  Irish  potato,  mashed  free  from  lumps. 

Pour  in  three  well  beaten  eggs  and  a  half  teacup  of  yeast. 
Make  into  a  soft  dough  with  warm  water  in  winter  and  cold  in 
summer.  Knead  well  for  half  an  hour.  Set  to  rise  where  it 
will  be  milk-warm,  in  winter,  and  cool  in  summer.  If  wanted 
for  an  eight  o'clock  winter  breakfast,  make  up  at  eight  o'clock 
the  night  before.  At  six  o'clock  in  the  morning,  make  out  into 
round  balls  (without  kneading  again),  and  drop  into  snow-ball 
moulds  that  have  been  well  greased.  Take  care  also  to  grease 
the  hands  and  pass  them  over  the  tops  of  the  muffins.  Set  them 
in  a  ^rarm  place  for  two  hours  and  then  bake. 

These  are  the  best  muffins  I  ever  ate. — Mrs.  8.  T, 

Parker  Housk  Muffins. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk.  When  nearly  cool  stir  in  one  quart 
sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  half  cup  of  ^east.  Then 
stir  in  three  well  beaten  eggs.  Let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  in 
winter  and  a  cool  one  in  summer,  eight  or  ten  hovxs.  When 
lisen  light,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter  and  bake  in 
iron  muffin  moulds. — Mrs.  W.  H,  M. 

Muffins. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  pint  milk. 
3  eggs. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard. 
1         "  "  butter. 

^  cup  yeast. 
1  teaspoonful  sugar. 
Mix  and  beat  till  perfectly  light. — Mrs,  W,  fS. 


38  MUFFINB— OREAM  MUFFINS. 

Another  liecipefor  Muffins, 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  dozen  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter. 
Beat  the  butter  and  yolks  together.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stilT 
froth.  Make  the  batter  the  consistency  of  pound  cake,  and 
bake  in  snow-ball  cups  as  soon  as  made. — Mrs,  C.  W.  B. 

Muffin  Bread. 

3  pints  of  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  gill  of  yeast. 
A  little  salt. 
Make  up  at  night.     This  makes  two  loaves. — Mrs,  A   F, 

Soda  Muffins. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

2  eggs. 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Add  enough  buttermilk  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  bake 
immediately. 

White  Egg  Muffins. 

1  pint  of  flour. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Add  enough  milk  to  make  it  into  a  thin  batter.     Put  in  a 
little  salt.     Very  nice. — Mrs.  C.  C,  McP. 

Cream  Muffins. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs  sepai'ately.  When 
well  beaten,  mix  them  and  add  to  them  a  half  pint  of  cream,  a 
himp  of  melted  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg.     Then  mix  in 


MISCELLANBOUB  TXABT  BBBAD&— OLD  MAID6.  3t> 

slowly  one  pint  of  flour  and  bake  it  quickly,  in  small  tins,  witli 
out  any  further  beating.     A  delicious  breakfast  bread. — Mrs, 

Miscellaneous  Yeast  JBreads, 

BUNNS. 

1  pint  of  potato  yeast. 
4  ounces  of  sugar. 
4  ounces  of  butter. 

1  egg  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  soft  dough. 
Make  as  Sally-Lunn  and  bake  in  rolls. — Mrs,  />r.  tS, 

CoTTAQK  Loaf. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 

2  eggs,  and  a  little  salt. 

Make  up  at  night  for  breakfast,  mixing  it  with  water.     Bake 
in  a  quart  tin  pan. — Mrs,  A»  JB, 

Potato  Brbad. 

1  quart  of  flour. 
4  eggs. 

4  good  sized  Irish   potatoes,  boiled,   mashed  and   strained 
through  a  colander. 

2  ounces  of  butter. 

As  much  yeast  as  is  needed  to  make  it  rise. 
To  be  made  up  with  water,  not  so  stiff'  as  light  bread  dough. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  or  rolls. — Mrs.  J\  S,  F. 

Old  Maids. 

Made  at  night  like  common  light  bread.  Roll  out  the  size 
€f  saaoers  in  the  morning,  for  the  second  rising.  Bake  on 
ft  hoe,  turning  over  as  a  hoe  cake.     Then  toast  the  sides,  ir 


40  QRAHAH   BREAD — ^BROWM   BREAD — ^RUSKB. 

front  of   a   fire.      A  very  nice,   old-fashioned    bread. — Mis. 
Dr.  E, 

Graham  Bread. 

The  night  before  baking,  nvake  a  sponge  of  white  flour,  using 
half  new  milk  and  half  cold  water,  with  a  teacup  two  thirds 
full  of  home-made  yeast.  In  the  morning,  put  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  this  sponge  in  a  separate  dish,  adding  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  molasses,  a  little  milk  or  water,  and  stirring  in  as  mich 
Graham  flour  as  you  can  with  a  spoon.  Then  let  it  rise  and 
mould  the  same  as  white  bread. 

Brown  Bread. 

One  quart  of  light  bread  sponge,  one-half  teacup  of  molasses. 
Stir  into  the  above,  with  a  large  spoon,  unbolted  wheat  meal, 
until  it  is  a  stiff  dough.  Grease  a  deep  pan,  put  the  mixture 
in ;  when  light,  put  the  pan  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  (the 
bread  well  covered),  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Then  put  in 
the  oven  and  bake  until  done.  Especially  good  for  dyspeptics. 
— Mrs.  D.  Coiie. 

Box  Bread. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  teacup  of  yeast,  one  teacup  of  melted 
lard  or  butter,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  rise  itv 
light  bread,  and,  when  risen,  uiake  it  into  squara  rolls,  without 
working  it  a  second  time.  Let  it  rise  again  and  then  bake  it. 
—Mrs.  R.  E,   W. 

Rusks. 

1  cup  of  yeast. 
1  cup  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  cream. 
4  eggs. 
Enough  flour  to  make  a  batter,  mixed  with  the  other  ingredi* 
ents.     Let  it  rise ;  theu  add  enough  flour  to  make  rolls,  and 


BOO   BUBKB— OBBMAM  BUBKB — ^PIKBNOH   BISOUIT.  41 

also  add  a  teacup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed.     Bake  as  rolls  after 
thfij  have  risen. — Jifrs.  JET, 

Egg  Rusks. 

Melt  three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  milk.  Beat  six 
eggs  into  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Mix  these  ingredi* 
eats  with  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter,  adding  a  gill  of  yeast 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When  light,  add  flour  to  make 
»  dough  still  enough  to  mould.  Make  into  small  cakes  and  let 
them  rise  in  a  warm  place  while  the  oven  is  heating. — Mn, 
Dr.  A 

Gebhak  Rusks. 

1  quart  of  flour. 
2eggs, 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

2  cups  of  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

2  cups  of  potato  yeast. 

2  cups  of  milk. 

1  nutmeg. 
Put  all  the  ingredients  in  the  middle  of  the  flour,  work  well 
together  and  set  to  rise  as  loaf  bread.     Wash  the  rolls  over 
with  butter  and  sugar. — Mrs.  O.  X.  T, 

Fbbnch  Biscuit. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Hub  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed. 

Pour  in  half  a  teacup  of  yeast,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  imd 
enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  half  an  hour. 
Then  set  to  rise ;  when  well  risen,  roll  out,  without  kneading 
again.  Handle  lightly,  first  greasing  the  hands  with  butter. 
Out  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  greasing  one  biscuit  and  ))lacing  an* 
other  on  it  Set  to  rise  a  second  time  before  baking. — Jtfra 
S.  T. 


42  vanity  buibourr — ceeam  bisouit. 

Vanity  Biscuit. 

One  ])int  of  floiir,  one  of  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  well  together 
Bake  in  cups. — JUtas  I). 

Beaten  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  lard  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Make  into  a  moderately  stiff  dough  with 
sw^et  milk.  Beat  for  half  an  hour.  Make  out  with  the  hand 
or  cut  with  the  biscuit  cutter.  Stick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven,  yet  not  sufficiently  hot  to  blister  the  hLscuit. — Mrs, 
&  T. 

AnoUier  Recipe  for  JBecUen  JBiscuit. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the  same  of  lard. 
Mix   up  these  ingredients  with  skimmed  milk,  work  them 
well  together  and  beat  fifteen  minutes.     Stick  with  a  fork  and 
bake  quickly. — Mrs.  JE,  B. 

Soda  Biscuit. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  the  same  of  soda, 
and  the  same  of  salt.  Sift  these  together,  then  rub  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lord  and  make  up  the  dough  with  milk  and  water. 
—Mt8,  E,  B, 

Creah  Biscuit. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

Four  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
flue  table  salt,  which  must  be  well  diflused  through  the  flour. 
Then  add  two  ounces  of  fresh,  good  butter.     Take  one  pint  of 
pure,  sweet  cream,  put  in  it  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  and 
then  add  it  to  the  flour.     The  dough  ought  to  be  very  soft ;  but 


EXCELLENT   UGHT   BISCUFr— SODA.   CBACKBB8.  49 

should  it  be  too  soft,  add  a  little  more  flour.  Work  it  well, 
roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  five  minutes. — Mrs,  J'.  S.  F* 


Excellent  Light  Biscuit. 

Boil  four  large  Irish  }>otatoes.  While  hot,  mash  them  with 
a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  an  ^gg.  Add  one  teacup  of  milk 
and  one  of  yeast.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  good  batter 
and  set  it  to  rise,  it  will  take  about  two  quarts  of  flour. 
When  light,  make  up  the  dough.  You  generally  have  to  add 
more  water  or  milk.  Roll  thick,  let  them  rise  slowly,  but 
hake  them  quickly. — Mrs,  M.  G,  H, 

Light  Biscuit. 

Two  quarts  flour,  one  large  tablespoonful  lard,  and  the 
same  of  butter.  Salt  to  the  taste.  One  teaspoonful  soda  and 
enough  buttermilk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Bake  quickly. — Mrs, 
Xh-.  S. 

Thick  Biscuit. 

One  quart  flour,  one  large  tiiblespoonful  lard  and  buttt^r  mixed, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  enough  morning's  milk  to  uiako  a  stiff 
dough.  Work  well  and  beat  with  a  rolling-pin  or  iron  pestle,  at 
least  half  an  hour.  Make  into  small  biscuit  and  bako  in  a  quick 
oven.     This  will  make  sixteen  biscuit. — Mrs,  M.  A.  P. 

Thin  Biscuit  ok  Crackers. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  lard  and  butter  mixed,  a 
litUe  salt.  Make  a  stiff  paste  with  water.  Beat  the  dough 
till    it  blisters.      Roll   thin,  stick,  and  bake    quickly. — Mrs 

A.  C. 

Soda  Crackers. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

1  egg ;   a  little  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  of  toda,  sifted  into  the  flour. 


44  HUNTSYILLB  0RA0KSB8 — ^NUn's  PUFFS. 

Make  a  stiff  paste  with  battermilk,  beat  until  light,  roll 
tolerably  thin,  cut  in  squares,  priok,  and  bake  quioklj. — Mrs. 

A.  a 

HUNTSYILLE   GrACKBRS. 

Take  a  lump  of  risen  dough,  as  large  as  yoi^r  double  fist,  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  loaf  sugar,  beaten  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg.  Mix  with  the  dough  a  lump  of  butter  the  nize  of  a  hen's 
egg  and  an  equal  quantity  of  lard,  a  tablespoonful  of  soda,  dis- 
solved in  a  oup  of  ci-eam.  Beat  a  long  time,  stirring  in  flour 
all  the  while,  till  quite  stiff.  Roll  out,  cut  in  square  cakes  and 
bake  in  a  brisk  oven. — Miu  M.  P, 

'^jltkbl  Orackbbs. 

1  lb.  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  same  of  soda. 
1  tablespoonful  of  lard. 
Make  up   with  sweet  milk,  beat  well,  roll   thin,  and   bake 
quickly. 

Wafbbs. 

1  quart  flour. 

Yolk  of  one  egg. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard. 

A  little  salt. 
Mix  with  milk,  as  stiff  as  you  would  for  biscuit.     Beat  well 
with  the  biscuit  beater,  roll  out  thin  and  put  in  the  wafer  irons. 
Put  in  the  fire  and  bake. — Mrs,  W.  & 

Nun's  Puffs. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  with  half  a  pound  of  butter.  Stir  them 
into  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  and  let  them  cool. 
Then  add  nine  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  to  be  beaten  separately, 
and  whites  to  be  added  last  Fill  cups  or  tins  half  full  and 
bake.  When  done,  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  while  h(t.  Yery 
nice  for  toa. — Afrs.  A.  D. 


MISOBLLANEOUS  FLOUB  BBBAD6.  45 

JfiseeUaneaus  ,Flour  JBrMuit. 

Lapland  Bbsad. 

1  qaart  of  flour. 

1  quart  of  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Twalve  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very 
light).  Put  the  whites  in  the  batter  the  last  thing,  beat  very 
lighty  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  in  small  tins,  which  must  be  |)er- 
fectly  diy  and  spiinkled  with  a  little  flour  before  being  greased. 
A  delicious  bread. — Mrs.  Dr.  J. 

A  PloMMT  Sedpsfor  the  Same, 

1  pint  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  ^;gs. 

Beat  the  eggs  well  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  milk.     Bake  in 
tittle  pans. 

Nbw  Brbad. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  dessertspoonful  of  lard  and  the  same  of  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Work  the  lard  and  butter  in  the  flour,  and  sprinkle  in  the 
8cda,  with  salt  to  taste.     Mix  with  buttermilk  or  clabber  to  the 
oonsiBtency  of  biscuit.     Boll  it  round  to  the  size  of  a  teaplate. 
Made  just  before  eating. — Mrs.  F.r 

Hjcnbietta  Bbbad. 

1  pint  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

2  eggSy  beaten  separately. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  of  lard  or  butter. 
Make  the  consistency  of  poor  man's  pudding.     Bake  in  oupa 
—Mrs.  K. 


%b  JBNNT  UND  BREAD — BRRAKFA8T  TT^FFfi. 

Jeknt  Lind  Bread. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

A  ]ump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

2  teacups  of  milk. 
4  eggs. 

1^  teaspoonfuls  of  soda. 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Ilake  twenty  minutes. — Mrs,  £. 

LuKCH  Bread. 

1  pint  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
2  eggs. 

1  cup  of  milk  and  a  little  salt. 
Bake  in  a  flat  pan  in  a  quick  oven.     To  be  eaten  hot  with 
butter. — Mr8,  J.  JET. 

Breakfast  Puffs. 

One  tumbler  of  flour,  one  tumbler  of  milk,  and  one  egg. 
Beat  the  yolk  and  milk  together,  then  add  the  flour,  and  lastly 
the  white  of  the  egg.  Bake  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  ovon. — 
Mrs,  I.  IT. 

Another  JRecipefor  the  Same. 

Tako  two  eggs  well  beaten  and  stir  into  a  pint  of  milk ;  add 
a  little  salt,  two  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  flour.  Stir  thoroughly,  so  as  to  avoid  lumps.  Grease 
the  cups  in  which  you  pour  the  batter,  and  fill  them  two-thirdn 
fuU. 


salt-bi6en  bread — ^waffles.  47 

Salt-Risen  Bread. 

Make  into  a  thin  batter : 

1  pint  of  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  of  corn  meal. 
Half-teaspoonfol  salt. 
Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.     After  it  has  risen,  pour  into  it 
two  quarts  of  flour,  with  sufficient  warm  water  to  make  up  a 
loaf  of  bread.     Work  it  well,  set  it  to  rise  again,  and  when 
risen  sufficiently,  bake  it. — Mrs,  T.  L,  «/! 

Another  Recipe  for  the  Same, 

Into  a  pitcher,  put  one  teacup  of  milk  fresh  from  the  cow, 
two  teacups  of  boiling  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugai*,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Into  this  stir  thoroughly  a  little  less  than  a 
quart  of  flour.  Set  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  moderately  warm 
water  and  keep  it  at  a  uniform  temperature.  Keep  a  towel 
fastened  over  the  mouth  of  the  pitcher.  Set  the  kettle  in  front 
of  the  fire  to  keep  the  water  warm.  Let  it  stand  three  hours, 
then  beat  it  up  well,  after  which  do  not  interrupt  it.  If  in  two 
hours  it  doen  not  begin  to  rise,  put  in  a  large  slice  of  apple. 
As  soon  as  it  rises  sufficiently,  have  ready  two  quaiis  of  flour, 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  more  salt,  and  make  up  immedi- 
ately. Should  there  not  be  yeast  enough,  use  warm  water. 
Put  into  an  oven  and  set  before  a  slow  fire  to  rise,  after  which 
bake  slowly.  The  yeast  must  be  made  up  at  seven  o^olock  in 
the  morning. — Miss  N.  (7.  A, 

Waffles. 

1  pint  milk 
3  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  com  meal. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
1  light  teaspoonful  salt. 
Three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  the  whites  added  last.     To 
have  good  waffles,  the  batter  must  be  made  thin.     Add  another 


49  WAFFLES — BODA   WAFFLES. 

egg  and  a  teacup  of  boiled  rioe  to  the  above  ingredientSy  if  you 
wish  to  make  rioe  waffles. — Mrs,  S,  T, 

Waffles. 
1  quart  of  flour. 

I  quart  of  sour  cream  (or  buttermilk,  if  you  have  no  ci*eam). 
6  eggs. 

1^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Half  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard,  poured  in  after  the  bat- 
ter is  mixed. 
This  may  be    baked    as  flannel    cakes  or  muffins. — Mrs. 
H.D. 

Anoih&r  Becipe  for  Waffles, 

1  quart  of  flour. 

6  ^gs  beaten  very  light. 
1^  pint  of  new  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 

Set  it  to  rise  at  night,  and  stir  with  a  spoon,  in  the  morn- 
ing, just  before  baking.  When  you  want  them  for  tea,  msiko 
them  up  in  the  morning,  in  winter,  or  directly  after  dinner,  in 
summer. — Mrs.  Dr.  «7i 

Soda  Waffles. 
1  pint  of  flour. 
1  pint  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  in  the  flour. 
2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Beat  up  and  bake  quickly. 

Anoiher  lUdpsfor  Waffles. 
\  quart  of  flour,  with  a  kitchen-spoonful  of  com  meal  added 


BUT-KBIOB  BIGB  WAFFLB8~MD8H   WAFFLES.  49 

3  ^g9  beaten  separately. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

1  teacup  of  water. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Xiump  of  butter  large  as  a  walnut,  melted  and  poured  in. 

Bake  in  hot  irons. 

One  secret  of  having  good  waffles  is  to  have  the  batter  thin. 

Superior  Rice  Waffles. 

1  quart  flour. 

3  eggiL 

1  cup  boiled  rice,  beaten  into  the  flour. 

1  light  teaspoonful  soda. 
Make  into  a  batter  with  buttermilk.     Bake  quickly  in  waffle 
irons.     Batter  made  as  above  and  baked  on  a  griddle  makes 
excellent  breakfast  cakes. — Mrs.  J).  J3.  IT. 

RioE  Waffles. 
1  pint  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  new  milk. 

The  yolks  of  three  eggs. 

Lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Half  teacup  of  boiled  rice. 

A  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  soda,  sprinkled  in  the  flour 

and  siffced  with  it. 

Beat  welL— Jfr«.  K 

Another  JSecipe/orthe  Same. 

Two  gills  of  rice,  mixed  with  three  ounces  of  butter,  three  eggs, 
three  gills  of  flotur,  a  little  salt,  and  cream  enough  to  make  the 
batter.     Beat  till  very  light.— Jfr«.  i>r.  8. 

Mush  Waffles. 

With  one  pint  of  milk,  make  com  mush.     When  cool,  add  a 

6 


50  BUKAKFA8T  0AKB8 — ^VBLVBT  0AKB8. 

tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  thicken  with  flour  to  a 
stiff  batter.     Bake  quickly  in  irons. — Mr$,  C.  L,  T, 

Breakfast  Cakes. 
In  the  morning  take  the  dough  of  a  pint  of  flour.     Beat  two 
eggs  light  and  mix  them  with  a  half  pint  of  milk,  then  add 
these  ingredients  to  the  dough,  let  it  stand  an  hour  to  rise,  and 
then  bake  as  buckwheat  cakes. — Mrs.  Dr.  JT, 

Madison  Cakes. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  ounces  of  lard^  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast.  Make  up  with  new  milk,  the  consistency  of 
roll  dough,  at  night.  Flour  the  biscuit  board  and  roll  out  the 
dough  in  the  morning  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick, 
cutting  the  cakes  with  a  dredging-box  top.  Let  them  rise, 
covered  with  a  cloth,  till  fifteen  minutes  before  break&st. 
— Mrs.  i. 

Orange  Cakes. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teacup  of  butter. 

4  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 
Make  into  a  stiff  batter  with  milk,  the  over-night.     Next 
morning,  add  a  teacup  of  Indian  meal.     Beat  well  and  put  in 
cups  ^o  lise  before  baking. — Mrs.  A.  (7. 

Velvet  Cakes. 

1  quart  of  flour. 
1  quart  of  milk. 
1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 
1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 
3  eggs. 
Bake  in  muffin  rings. — Mrs.  4.  C. 


flannel  oakss — ^bhokwhsat  oaxxb.  61 

Flannbl  Oakss. 

1  quart  of  flour. 
1  pint  of  meal. 
1  teacup  of  milk. 

1  teacup  of  yeast. 
3  eggs. 

2  teaapoonfuls  of  salt. 

Beat  well  tog)ther  and  let  it  rise  till  usual  time  in  a  waini 
place.     Excellent. — Mrs.  W,  JB. 

Aanolkvr  Recipe  for  Flannel  Cahee, 

1  quart  of  flour. 

2  eggs. 

1^  pint  boiled  milk  (used  cold). 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast  (added  after  the  other  ingredients 

have  been  mixed). 
Beat  light,  and  set  to  nse  till  morning. 
Bake  on  a  griddle. — Mrs.  Dr.  J". 

Another  Recipe  for  ike  Same. 

\  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

Half  teacup  of  butter  or  lard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
1  teaspoonfulof  salt. 

Flour  to  make  the  batter  like  pound  cske.—Mre.  S. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

1  quart  buckwheat  flour. 
1  pint  sifted  com  meal. 
Half  teacup  of  yeast. 
1  teaspoouful  of  salt. 
Enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
A.fter  rising,  stir  in  a  half  teacup  of  butter  or  lard.     T^et  if 


ftS  BUOKWHEAr  0AKE8 — OBBAM  0AKS8. 

rise  a  sooond  time,  grease  the  griddle,  dip  the  spoon  in  lightly, 
and  cook  quickly. — Mrs,  P,  W, 

Another  Heeipe/or  JBitckwheat  Ocikss, 

1  pint  of  buckwheat  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  meal. 

1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Make  up  with  water  the  over-night,  and  beat  till  it  bubblea. 
[n  the  morning  beat  again,  and  just  before  baking  stir  in  a 
pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk  or  water. — Mrs.  Got.  W. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

1  quart  buckwheat  flour. 

1  pint  wheat  flour. 

^  teacup  jeast. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 
Make  into  a  batter  with  warm  water.     Set  to  rise.     Thin 
the  batter  with  a  cup  of  milk  (to  make  them  brown  well). 
Add  a  pinch  of  soda  and  bake  quickly  on  a  griddle.     Butter 
and  send  to  the  table  hot. — Mrs.  D.  JB.  JET. 

Another  Recipe  for  the  Same. 

1  pint  buckwheat. 
^  pint  sifted  meal. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
l^  pint  lukewarm  watei-. 
Beat  well  and  set  to  rise  till  morning. — Jfra.  Dr.  J", 

Cream  Cakes. 

1  pint  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  cream  (or  milk). 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 

Lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg. 


CBEAM  0AKB8 — BOSTON  CRBAM  OAKBd.        58 

Put  tlie  milk  and  batter  on  the  fire  till  it  boils.     Mix  and 
bake  quickly  in  pans.     Salt  to  taste. 

Another  Hedpefar  Cremn  Cakes. 

1  quart  of  cream  (sour  is  preferable). 
4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Flour  for  a  thick  batter. — Mrs.  Q. 

Another  JXecipefor  the  Same, 

1  quart  of  flour. 
3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard. 
1  pint  of  cream. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Bake  in  tins. — Jifrs.  A.  O. 

Boston  Orbam  Cakes. 

2  cups  of  flour. 
2^  cups  of  water. 
1  cup  of  butter. 
6  eggs. 
Boil  the  butter  and  water  together,  stir  in  the  flour  while 
boiling ;  after  it  is  cool,  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.    Put  a  large 
spoonful  in  muffin  rings,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

The  cream  for  them  is  made  as  follows  : 
Put  over  the  fire  one  cup  of  milk  and  not  quite  a  cup  of 
sugar,  one  egg,  mixed  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.     Boil  a  few  moments  only. 
When  cool,  add  vanilla  to  the  taste. 
Open  the  cakes  and  fill  thorn  with  this  cream. — 3f.  H,  IT, 


54  BDTTEBHILK  0A&IB8 — ^BIOB  OAKSB. 

BUTTKBMILK    CaKBS. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

2  eggB}  well  beaten. 
1^  pint  of  buttermilk. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  very  light,  after  mixing  the  ingredients.     Just  before 
baking,  stir  in  a  little  soda,  mixed  in  a  little  of  the  buttenuilk. 
Bake  on  a  griddle,  free  from  grease. — Mrs.  L. 

Sour  Milk  Cakes. 

1  pint  sour  milk. 
1  pint  flour. 

Butter  size  of  a  small  egg. 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Bake  in  hot  and  well  greased  iron  clads. 

Farina  Cakes. 

Melt  together  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Then  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  farina  and  boil  till 
quite  thick.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  bake,  add 
three  well  beaten  eggs,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  salt  to  your 
taste. — Mtb.  S. 

Rice  Cakes. 

Put  one  pound  of  rice  in  soak  the  over-night.  Boil  very 
soft  in  the  morning,  drain  the  water  from  it  and  mix  with  it, 
while  hot,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Afber  it  has  cooled, 
add  to  it  one  quart  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  six  eggs.  Sift 
over  it  and  stir  into  it  gradually  a  half  pound  of  flour.  Beat 
the  whole  well  and  bake  on  a  griddle  like  other  batter  cakes. — 
Afrs.  W. 


BIGB  0AEB8 — OLD   VIBGINIA   BATTER  0AKB8.  55 

Another  Redpe  for  Mice  Cakes. 
One  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  mbbed  in  a  quart  of  milk,  one 
pint   of  fl<mry  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs   beaten   light. 
Beat  all  till  free  from  lumps.     Bake  as  soon  as  made,  on  a  well 
greased  griddle. 

Batter  Cakes. 

Two  e^^  beaten  separately.  Pour  into  the  yolks  a  pint  of 
buttermilk,  then  put  in  two  handfuls  of  meal  an^l  one  of  flour, 
then  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a 
little  salt.  F17  with  very  little  grease,  or  with  egg  shells. 
Put  two  spoonfuls  of  batter  to  a  cake. — Mrs,  C.  L,  T, 

Another  Recipe  for  BaUer  Cakes, 

1  quart  of  flour. 
1  pint  of  meal. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
3  eggs. 
Make  up  with  buttermilk. — Mrs.  Dr.  J. 

JBatter  Cakes  made  of  Stale  Bread. 

Pot  a  loaf  of  st&ie  bread  to  stand  all  day  in  a  pint  of  milk. 
Just  before  tea  add  three  eggs  and  one  large  spoonful  of  butter. 
If  too  thin,  add  a  little  flour. — Mrs.  R. 

Old  Virginia  Baxter  Cakes. 

Beat  two  eggs  very  light  in  a  bowl.  Add  one  teacup  of 
clabber,  one  of  water,  one  of  com  meal,  a  teacup  of  ^our,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Just  before  baking,  sift  in  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  stir  well.  It  is  better  to  grease  the 
giiddle  with  fat  bacon  than  with  lard. 

The  above  proportions  will  make  enough  batter  cakes  for  two 
or  three  persons. — Mrs,  S.  T. 


56  OLD  VIBOINIA  BArrSB  CAKES — BAITER  BBEA.D. 

Another  Hecipefor  the  Same. 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1  heaping  pint  com  meal. 

4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  tablespoonful  of  warmed  butter  or  fresh  lard. 
Break  the  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  together,  beat  slightly,  thee 
add  the  milk,  stir  in  the  meal  and  beat  until  it  looks  light. 
Bake  on  a  giiddle. — Jfre.  J\  P. 

Cheap  JRecipefor  Batter  Cakee, 

1  pint  of  sour  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Enough  meal  to  make  a  good  batter. 
Bake  on  a  hoe. — Mies  S.  P. 


Indian  Griddle  Cakes. 

1  quart  of  sour  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted  after  measuring. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

EEalf  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Make  a  thin  batter,  with  two-thirds  Indian  meal,  and  one- 
third  flour. 

A  small  bag  made  of  coarse  but  thin  linen  or  cotton,  and 
filled  with  common  salt,  is  much  better  to  rub  over  the  griddle 
than  lard,  when  cakes  are  to  be  fried  or  baked. 

Batter  Bread. 

Break  two  eggs  into  a  bowl.  Beat  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  in 
one  teacup  of  clabber  or  butter-milk,  one  of  water,  one  of  com 
meal,  one  of  flour,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  butter  melted.     Beat  all  well  together.     Have  already  heoted 


BATTBS  BREAD — OOBN   MRAL   WAFFLES.  57 

ou  ihe  stove  or  range,  iron -clad  muffin  moulds  (eight  or  ten  in 
a  group).  Grease  them  well  with  a  clean  rag,  dipped  in  lai'd. 
Fill  each  one  nearly  full  with  the  batter,  first  sifting  in  half  a 
teaspoonful  soda.  Set  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 
OHlong  shapes  are  the  nicest.  If  preferred,  sweet  milk  may  be 
OAed  instead  of  sour  milk  and  water.  In  this  case  add  another 
egg  and  dispense  with  the  soda. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

Batter  Bread. 

Four  cups  of  meal,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  two  table- 
qpoonfiils  flour,  one  tablespoonful  lard,  one  teaspoonful  salti 
half  teaspoonful  soda. — Mrs.  F. 

Batter  Bread. 

One  cup  meal,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter-milk,  two 
^(gs,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  same  of  soda. 

B«ke  in  cups. — Mrs.  Q, 

Corn  Muffiks. 

3  eggs,  beaten  light. 

1  pint  of  buttermilk  (if  very  sour,  use  less). 
I  teacup  of  cream  or  milk. 
1  small  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Lard  or  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Meal  enough  to  make  the  batter  of  the  consistency  of  pound- 
cake batter. — Mrs.  !• 

Corn  Meal  Waffles. 

One  pint  of  com  meal  scalded.  While  hot  add  to  it,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  a  cup  of 
boiled  nee,  a  pint  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Thin  to  the  proper  consistency  with  milk. — Mrs.  Dr.  & 


58  8t.  moholab'  fonb— corn  oajub. 

St.  Nicholas*  Pons. 

1  quart  of  meal. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  teaspoonluls  cream  of  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs,  C*  C. 

Ghit  or  Hominy  Bread. 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
1  pint  of  milk. 
Small  piece  of  butter. 
Add  enough  meal  and  hominy  to  make  a  batter,  and  bake 
quickly. — Mrs,  C.  L.  T. 

HoMiNT  Bread. 

Mix  with  two  teacups  of  hot  hominy  a  very  large  spoonful  of 
butter.  Beat  two  eggs  very  light  and  stir  into  the  hominy. 
Next  add  a  pint  of  milk,  gradually  stimng  it  in.  Lastly,  add 
half  a  pint  of  corn  meal.  The  batter  should  be  of  the  consist- 
encv  of  rich  boiled  custard.  If  thicker,  add  a  little  more  milk. 
Bake  with  a  good  deal  of  heat  at  the  bottom,  but  not  so  much 
at  the  top.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan,  allowing  space  for  rising. 
When  done,  it  looks    like  a  baked    batter    pud  ding.  ^JMrs. 

Cork  Cake. 

1  pint  of  com  meaL 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Boil  the  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  meal,  flour,  and  butter. 


ICUSH   BKRAD — OLD-FABHIONBD  BOa  BREAD.  &9 

Beat  light.     When  oool,  add  eggs  well  beaten.     Bake  in  a  but- 
fcered  pan. — Mrs.  Q,  W.  -P. 

Mush  Bread. 

Make  a  thin  mush  of  com  meal  and  milk  (or  hot  water,  if 
milk  is  scarce).  Cook  till  perfectly  done,  stirring  all  the  dme 
to  keep  it  smooth.  Then  add  a  good  lump  of  batter ;  and,  after 
it  cools  a  little,  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Beat  in  a  very  small 
pinch  of  soda  and  a  little  salt. 

Butter  a  yellow  dish  and  bake  slowly  till  brown. — 3fr8,  C, 
L.  T. 

Light  Cork  Bread. 

Pour  one  quart  of  boiled  milk  over  one  pint  of  com  meal. 
Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half 
teaspoonfdl  of  soda,  three  well  beaten  e^^s,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  a  little  butter. — Miss  E.  P. 

Soft  £oo  Bread. 

1  quart  of  milk. 
Half  pint  of  meal. 
3  eggs. 

Large  spoonful  of  butter. 
Make  in  a  pudding  dish.     Bice  is  an  improvement  to  the 
•ibove. — Mrs,  P, 

<>LI)-FA8HIONED  EgG  BrEAD. 

1  pint  of  meal. 
3  eggs  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
Add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  rather  thin  batter.     Bake 
quickly. — Mrs,  S,  T. 


bO  OLD-FASHIOKSD  BOG  BBBAD — OBAGKLIN   BBICAD. 

Another  Medpefor  Egg  Bread, 

1  quart  of  milk. 

3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  pint  of  com  meal. 

1  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients, 
Bake  in  a  pan  or  dish.     Add  a  little  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  if 
you  desire  it.— Jfr«.  L  H. 

Indian  Bread. 

Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  mix  alternately  with  them  one  pint 
of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  and  one  pint  of  fine  corn  meal. 
Melt  one  tablespoonfiil  of  butter,  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Dis- 
solve one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  small  portion  of  the  milk, 
and  add  to  the  other  ingredients,  last  of  all.  Beat  hard  and 
bake  in  a  pan,  in  a  hot  oven. 

Rice  Bread. 

1  pint  sweet  milk. 

1  teacup  boiled  rice. 

2  teacups  sifted  com  meal. 
\  teacup  melted  butter. 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
\  teaspoonful  salt. 

Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven,  using  buttered  iron  muffin  ruouhls. 
—Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cracklin  Bread. 

Take  one  quart  sifted  com  meal  and  a  teacup  of  cracklins. 
Rub  the  latter  in  the  meal  as  fine  as  you  can.  Add  a  tea> 
spoonful  of  salt  and  make  up  with  warm  water  into  a  stiH 
dough.     Make  into  pones,  and  eat  hot. — Mrs,  P.  W. 


viboinia  a8ir  oakb — boiled  ooffbk.  61 

Virginia  Ash  Cake. 

Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  sifted  corn  meal. 
Make  up  with  water  and  knead  well.  Make  into  round,  flat 
cakes.  Sweep  a  clean  place  on  the  hottest  part  of  the  hearth. 
Put  the  cake  on  it  and  cover  it  with  hot  wood  ashes. 

Wash  and  wipe  it  dry,  before  eating  it.  Sometimes  a  cab- 
bage leaf  is  placed  under  it,  and  one  over  it,  before  baking,  in 
which  case  it  need  not  be  washed. — Mtb.  8.  T. 

Plain  Cobn  Bread. 

1  pint  sifted  meal. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cold  water  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Work  well  with  the  hands,  pat  out  in  long,  narrow  pones, 
fax.  or  seven  inches  long  and  as  wide  as  the  wrist.     Bake  quickly 
in  a  hot  pan. — Mrs.  P.  Wi 


COFFEE,  TEA,  AND  CHOCOLATE. 

To  TOAST  Coffee. 

Wash  and  pick  the  coffee,  put  it  in  a  very  large  st.ove-pan  in 
H  hot  oven.  Stir  often,  giving  constant  attention.  It  must  be 
toasted  the  dai'kest  brown,  yet  not  one  grain  must  be  burned, 
ft  should  never  be  glazed,  as  this  destroys  the  aroma. 

Two  pints  of  coffee  become  three  pints  after  toasting. — JWrs. 
S.  T. 

Boiled  Coffee. 

To  one  quart  of  boiling  water  (poured  in  after  scalding  the 
pot)  stir  in  three  gills  of  coffee,  not  grround  too  fine.     Boil 


63  OOFPBE. 

tweaty  minutes,  scraping  from  the  sides  and  stirring  occasion 
ally.  Five  minutes  before  breakfast,  scrape  from  the  spout^ 
pour  out  half  a  teacupful|  and  return  to  the  pot.  Do  this  a 
second  time.  Set  it  with  the  side  of  the  pot  to  the  fire,  so  that 
it  will  be  just  at  the  boiling  point.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  however. 
Serve  in  the  same  coffee-pot. 

Coffee  should  never  be  glaaed. 

Have  a  liberal  supply  of  thick,  sweet  cream,  also  of  boilod 
milk,  to  serve  with  the  coffee. 

If  the  members  of  the  family  drop  in  at  intervals,  it  is  well 
to  keep  the  coffee  over  a  round  iron  weight,  heated  just  enough 
to  keep  the  coffee  hot,  without  boiling  it.  This  answers  better 
than  a  spirit  lamp  for  keeping  coffee  hot. — Mrs.  8,  T, 

Coffee. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  Mocha,  Java,  Laguayra  and  Rio 
coffee.  Have  the  coffee  roasted  a  chestnut  brown.  To  every 
twelve  cups  of  coffee  to  be  drawn,  use  eighteen  heaping  table- 
spoons of  the  ground  coffee.  Have  the  water  boiling  hot,  scald 
the  biggin  or  percolator,  put  the  ground  coffee  in  the  upper 
part,  then  pour  on  some  boiling  water  for  it  to  draw — about 
two  teacups  if  you  are  to  make  twelve  cups  of  coffee.  Let  it 
stand  a  few  moments  and  pour  again  into  the  upper  part  of  the 
percolator  the  first  drawn  coffee.  Then  add,  one  by  one,  the 
cups  of  boiling  water  required.  It  will  take  ten  minutes  for 
the  coffee  to  be  ready  for  the  table. 

Use  the  best  white  sugar,  and  in  winter  let  the  milk  stand 
twenty-four  hours  for  the  cream  to  rise.  Use  together  with 
ricli  cream,  a  cream  jug  of  boiling  sweet  milk. — Mrs.  Ml 
C.  0. 

Coffee 

Buy  Java  and  Laguayru  mixed,  two-thirds  Java  and  one- 
third  Liguayra,  which  will  give  a  delightful  aroma  to  the  Java. 
Scald  the  pot.     Tlien  put  in  a  teacup  of  coarsely  ground 


BKIFPIED  OB  ULTKBXD  OOFITEB-^-OBBEN  TKA.  68 

ooflEae,  parched  a  light  brown  and  mixed  with  cold  water  till  it 
fonns  a  paste,  to  six  cups  of  boiling  water.  Before  you  put 
in  the  boiling  water,  add  to  the  grounds  one  or  more  egg-shells 
or  'vliites  of  ^;8,  to  keep  it  clear.  Let  it  boil  ten  or  fifteen 
miniztes.  Before  taking  it  off  the  fire,  drop  in  about  a  teaspoou- 
lol  of  cold  water,  which  will  settle  all  the  floating  grounds.— 
Mn.  jr.  i> 

Dripped  or  Filtered  Coffee. 

If  one  quart  of  coffee  is  desired,  grind  three  gills  of  coffee, 
pat  it  in  the  filterer  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it.  If  not  suf- 
ficiently strong,  pour  out  and  return  to  the  filterer.  Then  set  on 
the  fire  and  boil  up,  taking  from  the  fire  immediately. — Jfr«. 
SL  T. 

Dripped  Coffee. 

One-half  pint  Java  cofiee  ground  and  put  in  the  dripper. 
Pour  over  it  two  and  one-half  pints  boiling  water.  If  not 
strong  enough,  pass  through  the  dripper  a  second  time. — Mt9. 
jr.  JR.  McD. 

Caf£  au  Lait. 

1  cup  German  chiccoiy. 

2  cups  ground  coffee. 

Pnt  in  three  pints  boiling  water  with  a  pinch  of  isinglass, 
boil  five  minutes  and  allow  it  to  settle,  or,  if  made  in  a  percola- 
tor it  will  be  better.  Use  three-quarters  of  a  cup  boiling 
milk  and  one-quarter  of  strong  coffee,  with  sugar  to  suit  the 
taste.— Jtfrt.  J,  W.  S. 

Green  Tea. 

Scald  the  teapot,  and  add  one-half  pint  boiling  water  to  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  the  best  green  tea.  Set  it  where  it  will  keep 
hot,  but  not  boiL  When  it  has  drawn  fifteen  or  twenty  min* 
uteB,  add  boiling  water  till  it  lias  the  strength  desired. — Mrt.  JT 
R.MeI>. 


04:  QREEN   TEA — lOED   TRA. 

Ghecn  Tea, 

Scald  the  teapot  If  you  wish  a  pint  of  tea,  put  in  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  tea  after  putting  in  a  pint  boiling  water.  Set 
tins  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  quite  boil. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

A  good  Cup  of  Ore&n  I'eck, 

Before  putting  in  any  water,  set  the  teapot  with  the  tea  in  it 
before  the  fire  and  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot  Then  fill  the  pot 
with  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes. — Mrs.  M.  E 
L.  W. 

Black  Tea. 

If  you  wish  a  quart  of  tea,  put  that  quantity  of  boiUn^ 
water  into  the  teapot,  after  scalding  it.  Add  four  teaspoonfuls 
of  tea.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  It  is  a  great  improvement  to 
put  in  a  little  green  tea. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Black  Tea. 

Add  one  and  one-half  pint  boiling  water  to  a  half-tea- 
cupful  of  the  best  black  tea.  Boil  gently  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  If  too  strong,  wesdken  with  boiling  water. — Mrs.  J\ 
R.  McD. 

Iced  Tea. 

After  scalding  the  teapot,  put  into  it  one  quart  of  boiling 
water  and  two  teaspoonfuls  green  tea.  If  wanted  for  supper, 
do  this  at  breakfast  At  dinner  time,  strain,  without  stirring, 
through  a  tea-strainer  into  a  pitcher.  Let  it  stand  till  tea  time 
and  then  pour  into  decanters,  leaving  the  sediment  in  the  bottom 
of  the  pitcher.  Fill  the  goblets  with  ice,  put  two  teaspoonfuls 
grantdated  sugar  in  each,  and  pour  the  tea  over  the  ice  and 
sugar.  A  squeeze  of  lemon  will  make  this  delicious  and 
healthful,  as  it  will  correct  the  astringent  tendency. — Mr^ 
8.  T. 


ohooolatb — ^milk  and  butfeb.  65 

Ghocolatb. 

Scrape  fine  one  square  of  Baker's  chocolate  (which  will  be  an 
ounce).  Put  it  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  milk,  mixed  iu 
eqnal  parts.  Boil  it  ten  minutes,  and  during  this  time  mill  it 
or  whip  it  with  a  Dover  egg-whip  (one  with  a  wheel),  which 
will  make  it  foam  beautifully.  Sweeten  to  the  taste,  at  table .-^ 
Mt9.  &  T. 

Ck>coA. 

To  one  pint  milk  and  one  pint  cold  water  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  grated  cocoa.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  mill- 
ing or  whipping  as  directed  in  foregoing  recipe.  Sweeten  to 
taste,  at  the  table.  Some  persons  like  a  piece  of  orange-peel 
boiled  with  it.— Jfr*.  8.  7! 

Broka. 

Dissolve  one  large  tablespoonful  broma  in  one  tablespoonful 
warm  water.  Pour  on  it  one  pint  boiling  milk  and  water  (equal 
parts).  Boil  ten  minutes,  milling  or  whipping  as  above  directed. 
Sweeten  to  the  taste. — Mrs,  S,  T, 

A  cream-pitcher  of  whipped  cream  should  always  accompany 
diocolate  or  any  preparation  of  it,  such  as  cocoa  or  broma. — 
Mrs.  &  T. 


MILK  AND   BUTTER. 


The  most  exquisite  nicety  and  care  must  be  observed  in  th^ 
management  of  milk  and  butter.  A  housekeeper  should  have 
two  sets  of  milk  vessels  (tin  or  earthenware,  never  stoneware, 
as  this  is  an  absorbent).     She  should  never  use  twice  in  succes 


f> 


66  MILK  AMD  BUTTSB. 

sion  the  same  milk  vessels  without  having  them  scalded  and 
aired. 

In  warm  weather,  sweet  milk  should  he  set  on  ice,  if  practi- 
cable,  or  if  not,  in  a  spring-house.  Never  put  ice  in  sweet  miUk, 
as  this  dilutes  it.  One  pan  of  milk  should  always  be  set  aside 
to  raise  cream  for  coffee.  A  bucket  with  a  close-fitting  lid  should 
be  filled  with  milk  and  set  aside  for  dinner,  one  for  supper,  one 
for  breakfast,  and  a  fourth  for  cooking  purposes. 

For  making  butter,  strain  unskimmed  milk  into  a  scaldcnl 
churn,  where  the  churning  is  done  daily.  This  will  give  sweeter 
butter  and  nicer  buttermilk  than  when  cream  is  skimmed  and 
kept  for  churning,  as  this  sometimes  gives  a  cheesy  taste  to  the 
butter.  Do  not  let  the  milk  in  the  chum  exceed  blood  heat. 
If  overheated,  the  butter  will  be  white  and  frothy,  and  the  milk 
thin  and  sour.  Chum  as  soon  as  the  milk  is  turned.  In  sum- 
mer try  to  chum  early  in  the  morning,  as  fewer  flies  are  swarm- 
ing then,  and  the  butter  can  be  made  much  firmer. 

A.  stone  chum  is  in  some  respects  more  convenient  than  a 
wooden  churn  ;  but  no  matter  which  you  use,  the  most  fastidi- 
ous neatness  must  be  observed.  Have  the  churn  scalded  and 
set  out  to  sun  as  soon  as  possible  after  churning.  Use  your  last 
made  butter  for  buttering  bread,  reserving  the  staler  for  cookery. 

Butter  should  be  printed  early  in  the  morning,  while  it  is 
cool.  A  plateful  for  each  of  the  three  meals  should  be  placed 
in  the  refrigerator  ready  for  use.  Do  not  set  butter  in  a  re- 
frigerator with  anything  else  in  it  but  milk,  or  in  a  safe  with 
anything  but  milk.  It  readily  imbibes  the  flavor  of  everything 
near  it.  After  churning,  butter  should  be  taken  up  in  what  is 
called  '<  a  piggin,"  first  scalded  and  then  filled  with  cold  water. 
With  an  old-fashioned  butter-stick  (scalded)  wash  aud  press  the 
butter  till  no  water  is  left.  Then  add  a  little  salt,  finely  beaten. 
Beat  again  in  a  few  hours,  and  make  up  in  half-pound  prints. 
I  would  advise  all  housekeepers  (even  those  who  do  not  make 

m 

their  own  butter)  to  keep  a  piggin,  a  butter-stick,  and  a  pretty 
buttor-print. 


TO   ttBOUBB  mOB  BUTTER  FOB  THE  TABLB  IN   WINTRB.     67 

2o  secure  nice  JButter  for  the  Table  in  Winter. 

In  October  and  November,  engage  butter  to  be  brought 
weekly f  freak  from  the  chum  in  rolls.  Wrap  each  roll  in  a 
piece  of  old  table  cloth,  and  put  in  a  sweet  firkin  or  stone  jar 
which  has  been  washed  with  soda  water,  scalded  and  sunned 
for  a  month  before  using.  Pour  over  it  a  clear  strong  brine, 
which  also  must  have  been  prepared  at  least  a  week  before- 
hand, bj  pouring  off  the  settlings  and  repeated  strainings. 
Have  a  nice  Hat  rock  washed  and  weight  the  butter  down  with 
it,  being  careful  to  keep  it  always  under  the  brine.— Jfr«. 
iS.  T. 

Sedpefor  PuUing  up  BuUer 

2  quarts  best  common  salt. 
1  ounce  pulverized  saltpetre. 
1  ounce  white  sugar. 

Work  the  butter  over  three  times,  the  last  time  adding  an 
ounce  of  the  above  mixture  to  every  pound  butter.  Of  course, 
the  batter  is  salted,  when  first  made.  Make  the  butter  into 
rolls  and  wrap  in  cloths  or  pack  in  jars,  within  four  inches  of 
the  top  of  each  jar.  If  the  latter  is  done,  fill  the  jars  with 
brine  and  tie  up  closely.  If  the  former  is  preferred,  drop  the 
rolls  into  brine,  prepared  as  follows : 

To  every  gallon  brine  that  will  bear  an  egg,  add  one  pound 
white  sugar  and  one-half  ounce  saltpetre.  Boil  well  and  skim. 
Keep  the  brine  closely  covered.  I  have  used  butter  on  my 
table  in  May,  put  up  in  this  way,  and  it  tasted  as  well  as  when 
put  up  in  October. — Mrs.  R.  C. 

Clabber. 

To  have  clabber  in  perfection,  place  in  small  glass  dishos  or 
bowls  enough  milk  to  make  clabber  for  each  person.  After  it 
has  turned,  set  it  in  the  refrigerator,  if  in  summer,  till  called 
for.  By  the  way,  refrigerators  (as  well  as  waters  coolers)  should 
be  washed  every  morning  with  water  in  which  a  tablespoonfnl 


68  OOTTAQK  0HSE8B— 80UP. 

of  common  soda  has  been  diasolved.    They  ahoold  then  be  aired 
before  filling  with  ice  for  the  day. — Jfr«.  S.  T. 

COTTAGB   CUBESB. 

When  the  tea-kettle  boils,  pour  the  water  into  a  pan  of  ^*  lop- 
pered ''  milk.  It  will  curd  at  once.  Stir  it  and  turn  it  into  a 
colander,  pour  a  little  cold  water  over  it,  salt  it  and  bi*eak  it 
up.  A  better  way  is  to  put  equal  parts  of  buttermilk  and 
thick  milk  in  a  kettle,  over  the  fire,  heat  it  almost  boOing  hot, 
pour  into  a  linen  bag  and  let  it  drain  till  next  day.  Then  take 
it  out,  salt  it,  put  in  a  little  cream  or  butter,  as  it  may  be  thick 
or  not,  and  make  it  up  into  balls  the  size  of  an  orange. 


■•♦• 


SOUP. 

As  making  soup  is  a  tedious  process,  it  is  best  to  make 
enough  at  once  to  last  several  days.  Beef  shank  is  most  gen- 
erally used  in  making  nutritious  soup.  It  is  best  to  get  this 
the  day  before  using  it,  and  soak  it  all  night  in  cold,  clear  water. 
If  you  cannot  do  this,  however,  get  it  as  early  in  the  morning 
as  you  can.  Break  the  bones,  wash  it,  soak  it  a  few  minutes  in 
weak  salt  and  water,  and  put  it  in  a  huge  boilor  of  cold  water. 
As  soon  as  it  begins  to  simmer,  remove  the  dark  scum  that 
rises  on  top.  Keep  the  boiler  closely  covered,  and  boil  very 
slowly  till  an  hour  or  two  before  dinner.  Then,  with  a  ladle, 
remove  all  the  fat  from  the  top,  as  it  is  this  element  that  makes 
soup  unwholesome.  Strain  and  season,  or,  if  you  prefer,  season 
just  enough  for  one  meal,  reserving  the  rest  as  foundation  for 
another  sort  of  soup.  It  is  well  always  to  keep  some  of  this 
stock  on  hand  in  cold  weather,  as  by  the  addition  of  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  or  other  ingredients,  a  delicious  soup  may  be  quickly 
made  of  it.    Never  throw  away  water  in  which  any  sort  of  meat 


OYBTlfiR  SOUP — KOONOHIOAL  0T8TBR  SOUP.  69 

has  been  boiled,  as  it  is  much  better  to  simmer  hash  or  a  stew 
in  this  liquor  than  in  water,  and  it  is  also  invaluable  for  bast- 
ing fo^wls  or  meats  that  have  not  been  parboiled. 

Directions  for  soup  making  are  so  fully  given  in  the  follow 
ing  pages  that  it  is  needless  for  me  to  say  an3rthisg  further  on 
•he  subject  here. 

Oyster  Soup. 

100  oysters. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

^  pound  butter. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

1  pint  rich  milk,  perfectly  fresh. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
Separate  the  oysters  from  the  liquor :  put  the  liquor  to  boil, 
when  boiled  add  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  then  the  flour,  having 
previously  made  it  into  a  batter.  Stir  all  the  time.  Wlien  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  milk,  and 
when  the  mixture  reaches  a  boil,  put  in  the  oysters  ;  let  them 
also  just  boil,  and  the  soup  is  done.  Stir  all  the  time  to  pro- 
vent  curdling. — Mrs,  Judge  M. 

Economical  Oyster  Soup. 

1  quart  oysters. 

2  quarts  water. 

Boil  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Cut  up  one  tablespoonful  butter  with  flour  and  put  in  while 
boiling ;  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  light,  mix  them  with  one- 
half  pint  milk. 

When  the  oysters  are  well  cooked,  pour  on  the  milk  and  eggs, 
stirring  all  the  time.     Let  it  boil  up,  and  take  off  quickly,  and 
pour  into  the  tureen,  over   toasted  bread  cut  into    dice — if 
preferred    rich,  leave    out  some    of   the    water.-— Jlfr^.    Li, 
Goo.  M. 


70  OTBTBB  SOUP — TURkx  OF  0TBTEB8. 

Oybtbr  Soup. 

Empty  the  oysters  into  a  colander  and  drain  off  all  the  liquor  ; 
then  strain  the  liquor  through  a  very  coarse  cloth  to  rid  it  of 
all  scum,  etc.    To  a  whole  can  of  oysters  take  a  quart  of  milk 

Put  the  milk,  oyster  liquor,  one  level  tablespoonflil  flour 
rubbed  very  smooth  with  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  pepper,  all  on  tho 
fire  together  in  a  feirina-boiler  (or  put  a  skillet  one-third  filled 
with  boiling  water  under  the  saucepan,  to  prevent  the  milk 
burning).  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  oysters  and  let 
them  stew  for  twenty  minutes  or  till  the  gill  of  the  oyster  turns 
and  begins  to  ruffle  and  crimp  at  the  edge.  Servo  immediately, 
for  if  they  are  cooked  too  long,  they  become  hard,  dark  and 
tasteless.  If  you  put  the  salt  in  last,  it  will  not  curdle  the 
soup.  Some  add  one  level  teaspoonful  whole  cloves  and  same 
of  mace,  tied  up  in  a  net  bag,  but  they  are  little  improvement. — 
Mrs.  R. 

Pur£b  of  Oysters. 

For  fifty  oysters. 

Put  the  oysters  on  in  their  own  liquor — let  chem  come  to  a 
boil — ^take  them  out  and  mince  them ;  skim  the  liquor  when 
nearly  done.     Beat  well  together : 

1  dessertspoonful  butter. 

^  pint  milk. 

I  cracker  sifted. 

Salt,  pepper  (mace,  also,  if  liked). 
Pour  this  into  boiling  liquor  and  then  add  the  minced  oys- 
ters.    When  done,  the  soup  is  smooth.     The  milk  must  be 
fresh  or  it  will  curdle. — Mrs,  John  WaJk&r^  Alabama, 

Oystxb  Soup. 

Take  two  quarts  of  oysters,  wash  them,  and  add, 
2  quarts  water. 


TdBTLB  BOUl*.  71 

A  bundle  of  herbs. 

1  small  onion  sliced. 
Let  it  boil  until  all  the  substance  is  Dut  of  the  oysters 
Strain  the  liquor  from  the  ingredients  and  put  it  back  in  the 
pot.  Add  a  large  spoonful  butter  mixed  with  flour.  Have 
ready  two  dozen  oysters  to  throw  in  just  as  it  is  ready  to  be 
dished — at  the  same  time  stir  up  two  yolks  of  eggs  ^ith  a 
cup  of  cream.     Cayenne  pepper  is   an  improvement. — Mrs, 


Turtle  Soup. 

Kill  the  turtle  at  daylight  in  summer,  the  night  before  in 
vdnter,  and  hang  it  up  to  bleed.  After  breakfast,  scald  it  well 
and  scrape  the  outer  skin  off  the  shell ;  open  it  carefully,  so  as 
not  to  break  the  gall.  Bi*eak  both  shells  to  pieces  and  put 
them  into  the  pot.  Lay  the  fins,  the  eggs  and  some  of  the 
more  delicate  parts  by — ^put  the  rest  into  the  pot  with  a  quan- 
tity of  water  to  suit  the  size  of  your  family. 

Add  two  unions,  parsley,  thyme,  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and  all- 
spice to  suit  your  taste. 

About  half  an  hour  before  dinner  thicken  the  soup  with 
brown  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together.  An  hour  before  din- 
ner, take  the  parts  laid  by,  roll  them  in  brown  flour,  fry  them 
in  butter,  put  them  and  the  eggs  in  the  soup ;  just  before  dinner 
add  a  glass  of  claret  or  Madeira  wine. — Mrs,  N. 

Turtle  Soup. 

To  one  turtle  that  will  weigh  from  four  to  five  pouxiJs,  after 
being  dressed,  add  one-half  gallon  water,  and  boil  until  the 
turtle  will  drop  to  pieces,  then  add  : 
2  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
When  nearly  done,  put  in  a  small  handful  pot  marjoram, 

ihjrme  and  parsley  tied  together,  and  two  large  onions ;  when 


^<^ 


79        TURTLE  60UF — ICOOK-TUKTLE  SOUP"— OLAM  SOQP. 


ready  to  come  off,  add  two  sliced  lemons,  one  pint  good  ^mie, 
and  a  small  quantity  of  curry  powder ;  thicken  with  flour. — 
Mr8.  D. 

Turtle  Soup. 

To  2-^  quarts  soup  add  : 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  dessertspoonful  allspice. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

Pepper,  black  and  cayenne,  and  salt  to  your  taste. 
Tie  up  a  bunch  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  onion  in  a  cloth,  and 
throw  into  soup  when  boiling.  When  nearly  done,  thicken  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  flour.  To  give  it  a  good  color,  take  one 
tablespoonful  brown  sugar  and  burn  it ;  Vhen  burnt,  add  a  wine- 
glass of  water.  Of  this  coloring,  put  two  tablespoonfuls  in 
soup,  and  just  before  serving,  add  half  a  pint  Madeira  wine. — 
MissK  W, 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Put  on  beef  and  boil  very  tender ;  take  out,  chop  fine,  and 
put  back  to  boil.  Put  potatoes,  mace,  cloves,  cinnamon, 
parsley,  thyme,  spice,  celery  seed,  and  ten  hard-boiled  eggs  ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 

Thicken  with  flour  and  add  brandy  and  wine. — Mi88  E,  P. 

Mock  Terrapin  Soup. 

Cut  up  two  pounds  roast  or  boiled  beef  in  small  pieces.  Put 
one  large  teacup  new  milk,  one  large  teacup  of  wine,  a  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg  (rolled  in  flour),  a  little  nutmeg,  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  mixed  mustard — all  in  a  stewpan,  and  cook 
ten  or  fift^^en  minutes.  Good  way  to  use  up  cold  meats. — Mtb, 
S.  JIT. 

Clam  Soup. 

Boil  half  a  peck  of  clams  fifteen  minutes ;  then  take  them 
firom  the  shells,  clean  and  wash  them.     Have  ready  the  stew- 


CLAM  SOUP — CRAB  BOUP.  73 

kettle ;  strain  the  water,  in  which  clams  have  been  boiled ; 
chop  up  clams,  and  put  in  with  three  or  four  slices  of  salt  pork, 
some  mashed  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Thicken  with 
<p:iited  cracker,  and  add  two  spoonfuls  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes  and  serve. — Mrs.  C. 

Clam  Soup. 

Open  the  clams  and  chop  them  up  fine.  To  twenty  clams, 
add: 

^  gallon  water. 
3  good  onions. 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
A  small  biyich  of  parsley  and  thyme. 
Just  before  taking  off,  add  one  quart  rich  milk  and  thicken 
with  flour. — Mrs,  D, 

Crab  Soup. 

Open,  and  cleanse  of  the  deadman^s  fingei-s  and  sandbag, 
twelve  small  flit  crabs  raw.  Cut  the  crabs  into  two  parts. 
Parboil  and  extract  the  meat  from  the  claws,  and  simply 
extract  the  fat  from  the  back  shells  of  the  crabs.  Scald 
eighteen  ripe  tomatoes,  skin  them  and  squeeze  the  pulp  from 
the  seeds  through  a  colander.  Chop  them  fine  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  the  seeds  and  juice,  and  strain  them.  Stew  a  short 
time  in  the  soup-pot  one  lai'ge  onion,  one  clove  of  garlic,  in  one 
siK>onful  butter  and  two  spoonfuls  lard,  and  put  them  in  the 
tomatoes. 

After  stewing  a  few  minutes,  add  the  meat  from  the  claws, 
then  the  crabs,  and  lastly  the  fat  from  the  back  shells.  Season 
with  salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper,  parsley,  sweet  marjoram 
and  thyme,  one-half  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  and  peel  of  one 
lemon.  Pour  in  the  water  with  which  the  seeds  were  scalded, 
adding  more  should  there  not  be  the  quantity  of  soup  required. 
Boil  moderately  one  hour.  About  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
serving,  sift  in  gi*ated  bread  crumbs  or  pounded  crackers  as  a 


74   TO  PRSPABB  ▲  BBBF'b  HBAD  AS  8T00K  FOB  SOUF. 

thickeuiiig.     Any  firm  fiah  prepared  by  this  recipe  ia  excelleat^ 
— Mr$.  J,  /. 

Ct<A  Soup. 

One  dozen  orabs  to  one  gallon  water.  Take  off  ^op  shell ; 
clear  body  of  crabs.  Out  through  the  middle,  put  them  into  a 
kettle,  mix  with  some  butter,  and  brown  them.  Then  add  one 
gallon  water,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Skim  slightly,  and 
add  the  hock  of  an  old  ham,  and  strained  tomato  juice  one 
pint  Boil  two  hours.  Season  with  pepper,  spice  if  liked,  and 
half-pint  wine. 

The  claws  are  to  be  cracked  and  divested  of  the  jaws.  A 
Hampton  recipe. — Mxbs  E.  Wi 

Beef  Soup. 

Orack  the  bone  of  a  shin  of  beef,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  in  one 
quart  water.  To  every  pound  meat  add  one  large  teaspoonful 
salt  to  each  quart  water.  Let  it  boil  two  hours  and  skim  it 
well.     Then  add : 

4  turnips,  pared  and  cut  into  quarters. 
4  onions,  pared  and  sliced. 
2  caiTots,  scraped  and  sliced. 
1  root  of  celery,  cut  into  small  pieces. 
When  the  vegetables  are  tender,  add  a  little  parsley  chop|)ed 
fine,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.     Serve  hot. — Mrs,  P, 
McQ. 

Another  JtUdpe  for  Beef  Soup, 

One  shin  beef  in  one-half  gallon  water,  put  on  before  break- 
fast and  boiled  until  dinner.  Thicken  with  brown  flour  two 
or  three  houra  before  dinner.  Put  in  one  carrot,  two  turnips, 
one  onion,  thyme,  cabbage,  and  celery-seed. — Mrs,  H,  P.  C. 

To  prepare  a  Beefs  Head  as  Stock  for  Soup. 

Out  up  the  head  into  small  pieces,  and  boil  in  a  large  quantity 
of  water  until  it  is  all  boiled  to  piece.s.     Take  out  all  the  bones 


calf's  hbad  soup.  75 

u  for  Bouse  cheese,  and  boil  again  until  thick.  Then  while  hot, 
season  very  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  catsup,  allspice,  and  onions 
chopped  fine. 

Put  into  a  moold  to  get  cold.  For  a  small  family  cut  a  thick 
idice,  say  five  inches  square,  whenever  you  want  soup  in  a 
hurry,  adding  about  a  quart  of  water.  It  need  cook  for  a  few 
minutes  only,  and  is  valuable  as  keeping  well  and  being  ready 
in  times  of  emei^gency.  By  adding  a  few  slices  of  hard-boiled 
egg  and  a  gill  of  good  cooking  wine,  this  soup  may  have  yery 
nearly  the  flavor  of  mock  turtle. — Jifrt.  A.  M,  2>. 

Galp's  Head  Soup. 

Take  one-half  liver  and  the  head  of  a  mutton,  veal  or  beef, 
and  boil  until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bone.     Out  up  fine  and 
add  one-half  the  brains ;  then : 
1  onion. 

1  spoonful  sj>ice. 
\  spoonful  cloves. 

1  spoonful  black  pepper  and  a  piece  of  maoe. 
3  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
Put  in  enough  water  at  first,  as  adding  it  makes  the  soup  thin. 
Cut  up  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  add,  when  done,  one  glass 
of  wine. 

A  little  brandy  and  walnut  catsup,  with  more  eggs,  will 
improve  it^  though  it  is  a  delightful  soup  as  it  is. — Mr%,  W. 

A.  a 

Calfi  Head  Soup. 

Clean  the  head,  laying  aside  the  brains.  Put  the  head  in  a 
gallon  of  water,  with  pepper  and  salt.  Boil  to  pieces  and  take 
out  bones ;  return  to  the  pot  with — 

1  teacup  of  mushroom  or  tomato  catsup. 

1  teaspoonful  allspice. 

1  lemon  rind,  grated. 


76  OALF'8    IIICAD   SOUP. 

I  grated  nutmeg. 
1  tablespoonful  butter, 
1  teacup  of  browned  flour. 
Fry,  and  add  the  brains  when  nearly  ready  for  the  table. 
About  five  niinuteB  before  serving,  add  : 

1  teacup  of  wine. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
When  sent  to  the  table  have  two  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  and 
floating  on  top. — Mrs.  «7!  D, 

Golfs  Head  Soup. 

Take  a  large  calfs  head  and  boil  it  with  four  gallons  water 
and  a  little  salt ;  when  tender,  bone  and  chop  it  fine,  keeping 
out  the  brains,  and  put  the  meat  back  in  the  pot  and  boil  down 
to  a  tui-eenful.     Half  an  hour  before  serving  the  soup,  add : 

1  tablespoonful  mustard. 
1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
Brown  a  cup  of  flour  to  thicken  and  just  as  the   soup  is 
dished,  add  one  cup  walnut  catsup,  and  one  cup  port  or  claret 
wine. 

The  brains  must  be  beaten  up  with  an  egg,  fried  in  little 
cakes,  and  dropped  in  the  tureen. — dfiaa  N". 

Calf's  Head  Soup. 

Take  the  head,  split  it  open  and  take  out  the  brains ;  then 
put  the  head,  brains,  and  haslet  in  salt  water — let  them  soak 
one  hour.  Put  on  to  boil  at  eight  o'clock ;  after  boiling  four 
hours,  take  it  up  and  chop  up  the  head  and  haslet,  removing  all 
the  bones;  return  to  the  soup,  with  a  small  pod  of  pepper. 
Thicken  it  with  one  pint  browned  flour  with  one  tablespoonfuJ 
butter  rubbed  in  it.     Have — 


BROWN   OALP'S   HEAD   B0UP--CALF*8   HEAD   SOUP.         77 

1  tablespoonful  mace. 
1  tablespoonful  allspice. 
^  doz.  cloves. 
Beat  all  together  and  put  in  the  tureen  with, 

1  teacup  of  tomato  catsup. 

1  teacup  of  cooking  wine. 

Pour  the  soup  on  them.     Have  the  brains  fried,  and  t^no 
hard  boiled  eggs  sliced  and  dropped  in  the  soup. — Mrs,  T.  C. 

Brown  CcHf^a  Head  Soup. 

Scald  and  clean  the  head,  and  put  it  to  boil  in  two  gallons 
water^  with 

A  shank  of  veal. 

2  carrots. 

3  onions. 

A  small  piece  of  bacon. 

A  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
When  they  have  boiled  half  an  hour,  take  out  the  head  and 
sbank,  and  cut  all  the  meat  off  the  bone  in  pieces  two  inches 
square.  Let  the  soup  boil  half  an  hour  longer,  then  strain  it 
and  put  in  the  meat,  and  season  with  salt,  black  and  cayenne 
pepper  (and  a  few  cloves,  if  you  like  them).  Thicken  witii 
butter  and  brown  flour. 

Let  it  now  boil  nearly  an  hour  longer,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing it,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  sugar  browned  in  a  frying- pan, 
and  half  a  pint  wine.  A  good  substitute  for  turtle  soup. — Mrf, 
CW.  A.  F. 

Calf  9  Head  Soup. 

Have  a  head  nicely  cleaned,  the  brains  taken  out  and  the 
nead  put  to  soak.     Put  it  on  with. 

1  gallon  water. 
1  piece  of  fat  ham. 
Thyme,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 


78  OZ-TAIL  SOUP — OHICKKN   SOUP. 

Boil  together  until  the  flesh  is  tender :  take  out  and  chop- 
strain  the  water — ^two  tableepoonfols  brown  flour,  four  ounoec 
butter — returning  the  **  dismembered ''  fragments ;  let  it  boil 
till  reduced  to  two  quarts.  Season  with  one*half  pint  wine, 
one  gill  catsup,  nutmeg,  mace,  allspice. 

Out  up  the  liver,  and  fry ;  beat  the  brains  up  with  an  egg, 
pepper  and  salt ;  fry  in  cakes  and  laj  in  the  soup  when  served 
up,  and  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced  up  and  put  in. — 3Ii$9  B,  L. 

0x4aU  Soup. 

Wash  and  soak  three  tails ;  pour  on  them  one  gallon  cold 
water  ;  let  them  be  brought  gradually  to  boil,  throw  in  one  and 
a  half  ounce  salt,  and  clear  off  the  scum  carefiiUy  as  soon  as  it 
forms  on  the  surface.     When  it  ceases  to  rise,  add : 

4  moderate  sized  carrots. 

2  or  3  onions. 

1  large  bunch  savory  herbs. 

1  head  celery. 

2  turnips. 

6  or  8  cloves,  and  ^  teaspoonfnl  peppercorns. 
Stew  these  gently  from  three  hours  to  three  and  a  half 
hours.  If  the  tails  be  very  large,  lift  them  out,  strain  the 
liquor  and  strain  off  all  the  fat.  Out  the  meat  fi*om  the  tails 
and  put  it  in  two  quarts  or  more  of  the  stock.  Stir  in,  when 
this  begins  to  boil,  a  thickening  of  arrow-root  or  of  rice  flour, 
mixed  with  as  much  cayenne  and  salt  as  may  be  required  to 
flavor  the  soup,  and  serve  very  hot. — JWrs.  P, 

Ohigksn  Soup. 

Put  on  the  chicken^  with  about  three  quarts  water  and  some 
thin  slices  bacon.     Let  it  boil  well,  then  put  in : 
A  spoonful  butter. 
1  pint  milk. 
1  ogg,  well  beaten. 
Pepper,  salt,  and  celery  or  celery-seed  or  parsley. 


ROA8T  YSAL  AND  OBIOIOBN-BOKB  ROUP— OKBA  80T7P.      79 

Let  all  boil  op.  Some  dumplings  made  like  biscuits  we  very 
nice  in  it. — Mr$,  W. 

Itoaai  Veal  and  Chicken-hone  Soup. 

Boil  the  veal  and  chicken  bones  with  vegetables,  and  add  one 
handful  maocaroni,  broken  up  fine.  Boil  the  soup  half  an 
hour.     Color  with  a  little  soy  or  catsup. — Mr$.  S. 

Chicken  Soup. 

Put  on  the  fire  a  pot  with  two  gallons  water  and  a  ham  bone, 
if  you  have  it ;  if  not,  some  slices  of  good  bacon.  Boil  this  two 
hours,  then  put  in  the  chickens  and  boil  until  done :  add  one- 
half  pint  milk  and  a  little  thickening ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the 
taste.  After  taking  off  the  soup,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  sise 
of  an  egg.  Squirrel  soup  is  good  made  the  same  way,  but  takes 
much  longer  for  a  squin-el  to  boil  done. — Mrs.  P,  W. 

GiBLET  Soup. 

1  pint  dried  green  English  peas. 

1  pound  giblets. 

1  dozen  cloves. 

1  small  piece  red  pepper. 

Nearly  1  gallon  water. 
Boil  peas  slowly  seven  hours.  Add  giblets,  spices,  and  salt  to 
ta&te,  two  hours  before  dinner.  When  peas  are  dissolved,  strain 
through  sieve ;  cut  giblets  into  dice  and  return  to  soup ;  boil  up 
and  serve.  Will  be  enough  for  six  or  eight  persons. — Mn. 
H  R. 

Ok&a  Soup. 

1^  gallons  water. 

2  quarts  young  okra,  cut  very  fine. 

2  quarts  tomatoes. 

Onions,  prepared  as  for  pea  soup. 

Pepper;  salt 

1  large  spoonful  butter. 


80  GUMBO  SOUP — FINK   VKOiTrABLE  SOUP. 

Add  the  tomatoes  about  twelve  o'clock.  Put  the  soup  on 
early  in  the  morning. — Mrs.  J. 

Gumbo  Soup. 

1  fried  chicken. 

1  quart  okra^  cut  up. 

1  onion. 

1  bunch  parsley. 

Few  celery  tops — ^fry  all  together.    Put  in  one  quart  skinned 

tomatoes. 
l-j[  gallons  water,  boil  to  ^  gallon. 
Teacup  of  wine  after  taking  from  the  fire. — Mrs.  R.  A, 

Chwmho  Soup. 

Fry  two  fowls,  old  or  young,  with  parsley,  pepper,  salt^ 
onion,  lard  or  bacon. 

Put  it  in  the  pot  with  water  sufficient  for  the  soup.  One 
quart  sliced  oki*a,  scrap  of  ham  or  fried  sausage  to  boil  with  it. 

Sassafi-as  Gumbo  is  made  in  the  same  way,  except  after  the 
fowl  has  boiled  until  the  flesh  has  left  the  bone,  just  before  taking 
off  the  fire,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  sassafras  flour.  Oysters 
are  a  great  improvement  to  sassafras  gumbo.  Gather  the  sassa- 
fras leaves  green,  and  dry  in  the  shade,  as  sago  ;  when  thoroughly 
dry,  rub  through  a  sieve  and  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  It  is 
nice  in  beef  soup  instead  of  okra. — Mrs.  T. 

Fine  Yeoetable  Soup. 

Put  on  two  pounds  of  fresh  beef,  or  a  good-sized  chicken,  or 
ham  bone  if  you  have  it,  early  in  the  morning.  Put  your  boiler 
on  filled  with  water.  Keep  boiling,  and  when  boiled  down, 
about  one  hour  or  more  before  dinner,  add : 

Grated  lemon  peel. 

6  ears  com. 

1  dozen  good  tomatoes. 


VKGKTABLE  SOUP.  81 

Beans. 

1  small  head  of  cabbage. 

A  few  Irish  potatoes. 

Sweet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
A  few  leaves  of  dried  sassafras  rubbed  np  will  improve  the 
taste.     Serve  hot  with   toast,  a  small  quantity  of  sugar  and 
vin^ar.     Boil  till  thick. — Mra.  Dr,  L, 

Yeoetable  Soup. 

Before  breakfast,  wash  a  beef  shank  in  several  waters,  break 
tlie  bone,  and  put  it  in  a  large  pot  of  cold  water.  Keep  it 
steadily  boiling  until  one  hour  before  dinner,  when  the  follow- 
ing  vegetables,  previously  prepared,  must  be  added  to  the  soup 
after  it  has  been  carefully  skimmed  of  all  grease,  and  strained. 

1  quart  peeled  and  chopped  tomatoes. 

1  pint  lima  or  butter  beans. 

1  pint  grated  com. 

1  pint  chopped  cabbage. 

1  pint  sliced  Irish  potatoes. 

1  sliced  turnip. 

1  carrot. 

A  little  minced  onion. 

Parsley. 

1  tablespoonful  pepper  sauce, 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour  rubbed  into^ 

1  teacup  milk. 

1  teacup  brown  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

Boil  an  hour:  thicken  with  mixed  milk  and  flour,  and  serve. 

A  piece  of  middling,  bacon,  or  any  other  kind  of  meat,  may  be 

used  instead  of  the  beef  shank.     The  best  meat  of  the  shank 

may  be  freed  from  gristle,  chopped  fine  and  made  into  a  nice 

■tew  by  adding 

1  grated  turnip. 

1  mashed  potato. 


82  TOMATO  sour. 

1  tablespoonfal  pepper  sauce. 
1  tablespoonful  made  muscarcL 
1  tablespoonfal  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  celery  seed. 
1  teaspoonful  fruit  jelly. 
1  teacup  milk. 
Minced  onion  and  parsley. 
Boil  up  and  serve. — Mrs,  8.  T, 

Tomato  Soup. 

Take  one  quart  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped  up,  yr  a 
three-pound  can  of  same,  put  in  an  earthen wai*e  baking  dish 
with 

1  pint  grated  com  (or,  if  in  winter,  dried  com  prepared  as  if 
for  the  table),  and  add— 

1  teacup  sugar. 

1  teacup  grated  cracker. 

1  teacup  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Set  this  in  a  hot  oven  with  a  tin  plate  over  it  to  prevent 
browning.  Have  ready,  in  a  porcelain  kettle  or  pan,  two 
quarts  new  milk  boiling  hot.  When  the  tomatoes  and  corn  are 
thoroughly  done,  stir  in  one  large  Irish  potato  mashed  smooth, 
a  little  minced  onion  and  parsley,  and  pour  into  the  boiling 
milk  and  serve. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Tomato  Soup. 

A  shin  of  beei^  season  to  your  taste  with  all  kinds  of  vegeta- 
bles: 

Tomatoes,  iumips,  carrots,  potatoes,  cabbage  cut  fine,  com, 
butter  beans  and  celery. 

When  nearly  done,  take  vegetables  out  and  mash  them  well, 
and  also  out  the  beef  up  fine.     It  is  best  to  season  with  salt  and 


OLE\B  TOMATO  SOUP — ^PBA  S0I7P,  83 

peppor  when  you  first  put  it  on.     The  beef  should  be  put  oo 
very  early. — Mrs,  J]  X. 

Clear   Tomato    Soup, 

1  lai^  can  tomatoes. 

1  beef  shin. 

1  bunch  soup  herbs. 

1  gallon  water. 
Boil  eight  hours,  stir  and  sJdm  several  times.    .Sti*ain  through 
wire  sieve,  add  one  tablespoonful  Worcester  sauce  and  same  of 
brown  sugar.     Serve  with  dice  of  toasted  bread ;  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.— Jfr«.  B.  K 

AsPA&Aous  Soup, 

Cut  the  asparagus  into  small  pieces  and  put  on  to  boil  in  salt 
water,  with  slices  of  middling ;  just  before  dinner,  taking  it  off, 
beat  four  ^;gs  and  stir  in  one  pint  milk  or  cream,  a  piece  of 
butter.  A  piece  of  veal  may  be  boiled  with  it,  if  you  wish 
meat. — Mr9.  H. 

Anpofragua  Sattp, 

Parboil  the  asparagus  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them ;  then  pour  the  water  and  asparagus  into  milk,  then  add 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  also  bread  crumbs,  and  boil  until  the 
asparagus  is  done. — Jifrs,  S. 

Pea  Soup, 

Soak  one  pint  of  split  peas  in  water  for  twelve  hours ;  drain 
off  the  water,  put  the  ])eas  into  a  saucepan  witli  three  pints 
cold  water,  oue-half  potiiid  bacon,  two  si)rigs  of  dried  mint,  a 
bay  leaf,  some  paraley,  an  onion  stuck  with  one  or  two  cloves, 
some  whole  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Let  the  whole  boil  three  hours,  then  pass  the  pur6c  tlirougli 
a  hair  sieve ;  make  it  hot  again  and  serve  with  dice  of  bread 
fried  in  butter. — Mrs.  A, 


84  GREKN  PRA  80XJP — POTATO   SOUP. 

Gkeen  Pea  Soup. 

Boil  one  quart  peas  in  two  quarts  water,  and  two  thin  slices 
bacon.  When  done  mash  through  a  colander  ;  then  put  back 
in  the  same  water,  throwing  away  the  slices  of  bacon.  Season 
with  pepper,  salt,  spoonful  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

Boil  well  again.  Toast  some  bread  and  cut  in  slices,  and  put 
in  the  tureen  when  the  soup  is  served.  The  hulls  of  green  peas 
will  answer ;  boil  them  well  with  a  few  peas,  then  season  as  above 
and  boil.     Two  hours  will  be  enough  to  boil  green  pea  soup. — 

Mt9.    W. 

Ghreen  Pea  Soup. 

Boil  half  a  peck  of  peas  in  one  and  a  half  gallons  water,  till 
perfectly  done.  Take  out,  mash  and  strain  through  a  colander, 
then  pour  a  little  of  the  water  well  boiled  over  them,  to  sepa 
rate  the  pulp  from  the  hull.  Keturn  it  to  the  water  they  were 
boiled  in ;  chop  up  one  large  or  two  small  onions ;  fry  them  in 
smallest  quantity  of  lard,  not  to  brown  them.  Add  this  with 
chopped  thyme,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 

Just  before  taking  off  the  fire  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  butter. 
If  the  soup  is  too  thin,  cream  a  little  butter  with  flour  to 
thicken. — Mrs.  L 

Potato  Soup. 

Mash  potatoes,  pour  on  them  one  teacup  cream,  one  large 
spoonful  butter. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  them  till  you  have  the  desired  quantity. 
Boil  until  it  thickens ;  season  with  salt,  parsley,  and  pepper  to 
your  taste. — Mrs.  R,  E, 

Potaio  Sovp. 

Pour  two  quarts  water  on  six  or  seven  large  peeled  potatoes, 
adding  two  or  three  slices  of  middling ;  boil  thoroughly  done. 
Take  them  out,  mash  the  potatoes  well  and  return  all  to  the 


OT6TES8   AND  OTHER   SHELL  FISH — STKWfiD  OYSTERS.     85 

same  water,  together  with  pepper,  salt,  one  spoonful  butter,  and 
one  quart  milk,  as  for  chicken  soup. — Mrs,  W. 


••♦«- 


OYSTERS  AND   OTHER  SHELL  FISH. 

Stewed  Oysters. 

Put  butter,  salt  and  pepper  in  a  stew-pan,  and  put  the  oysters 
to  the  butter  and  stew  until  perfectly  done. — Mrs.  D. 

JStetoed  Oysters, 

Take  one-quarter  pound  nice  butter,  put  it  in  a  pan  and  melt, 
then  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  small  piece  of  cheese.  When  it  is 
all  melted  add  one  pint  of  oyster  liquor,  and  boil ;  when  hot, 
sti-ain  and  put  back  in  pan,  then  add  oysters  and  boil  five  min- 
utes.— Mr,  K.  N". 

Stewed  Oysters. 

Pour  into  a  stew-pan  ^  gallon  oysters. 
2  tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar. 
1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Let  them  simmer  until  the  oystera  are  plump ;  take  them  out 
with  a  fork  and  drop  them  into  a  tureen,  on  a  handful  of  crack- 
ers and  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  fresh  butter. 

Pour  one  pint  milk  to  the  liquor,  let  it  boil  up  and  strain  it 
on  the  oysters.  Rinse  out  the  stew-pan  and  pour  the  oysters, 
liquor,  etc.,  back  into  it,  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  When  it  cornea 
to  a  boil,  serve. 

This  method  depiives  the  oysters  of  the  bits  of  shelL — M%'9 
8.  T. 


TO  8TKW  OY8TBB8 — BOALLOPED  OT8TKR8. 

7b  8tew  Ot/$ter$. 

Put  into  the  kettle  one  pint  liquor,  one-half  pound  butter, 
and  pepper. 

Let  it  boil,  then  put  in  the  oysters,  after  draining  them  in  a 
colander.  They  will  be  done  as  soon  as  they  boil  up,  or  when 
they  curl  right  well.  When  ready  to  take  up,  add  half  tea- 
cup cracker  crumbs  and  a  little  salt  in  the  stew. — Jtfrs.  JP.   Wl 

To  Stew  Oysters. 

Put  into  a  shallow  Htew-pan  the  oysters.  As  soon  as  the  gills 
begin  to  open  i>our  off  all  the  liquor.  Continue  to  cook  them, 
stirring  all  the  time  until  done.  The  liquor  that  was  poured 
off  must  be  thickened  with  a  good  lump  of  butter  rubbed  up 
with  flour,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  poured  boil- 
iug-hot  onto  the  oystera. 

The  advantage  of  this  way  of  cooking  is  that  the  oy slurs 
become  large  and  plump. — Hfra,  Dr,  E,  JR. 

To  Cook  Oysters. 

^  gallon  oysters. 

1  quart  fresh  milk, 

^  pound  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  pepper. 

1  egg. 
Rub  the  egg  and  Hour  together  and  thin  with  a  little  of  the 
ipillr.  Mix  the  oystera,  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  come  to 
a  boil ;  then  add  the  milk,  and  when  this  boils  add  the  egg  and 
flour  with  the  butter.  Let  the  whole  boil  three  minutes.— Jlfi«« 
If.  S.  L. 

Scalloped   Oysters. 
Do  not  drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  but  fork  them  out 
of  it  as  you  use  them  ;  in  that  way  as  much  liquor  as  you  re 


80ALL0FBD  OT8T1CH8.  87 

quire  adhares  to  them.     Use  stale  bread,  and  do  not  crumb  it 
too  fine,  or  it  will  be  clammy. 

^  teaciipful  cream. 

2  great  spoonfuls  butter. 

Salt  and  pepper. 
Oysters  part  with  a  great  deal  of  moisture  in  cooking,  and  if 
ihe  mixture  is  too  wet  it  is  not  as  good  ;  it  should  be  rather  drjr 
when  done.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  dish  with  a 
layer  of  very  dry  bread  crumbs,  dust  over  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  stick  little  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  ci*umbs ;  then, 
with  a  spoon,  moisten  it  with  cream.  Next,  place  a  layer  of 
oysters,  alternating  with  bread  crumbs,  until  the  dish  is  filled, 
finishing  with  butter  and  cream ;  invert  a  plate  over  it  to  keep 
in  the  flavor.  Bake  three-quartera  of  an  hour,  or  until  the 
juice  bubbles  to  the  top.  Remove  the  plate,  and  brown  on  the 
upper  shelf  of  the  oven  for  two  or  three  minutes  only. — Mi's,  R, 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Those  who  are  fond  of  oysters  prepared  in  this  way  will  find 
them  much  more  delicate  when  cooked  entirely  by  reflected 
heat.  Have  your  tinner  make  you  an  old-fashioned  *'  tin-kit- 
chen" with  doping  sides.  Take  small  oblong  dishes,  such  as 
are  in  general  use  at  hotels,  fill  them  with  alternate  layers  of 
oysters  and  rolled  crackers,  and  lay  lumps  of  fresh  butter  liber- 
ally on  top  of  each  dish.  Arrange  them  in  the  '*  kitchen,"  set 
the  open  dish  in  front  of  a  bright  fire  or  very  warm  gi*ate,  and 
in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  you  will  find  the  oysters  delicious. 
-^Mrs.  D.  P. 

Scalloped   Oysters. 

Put  on  the  oysters  with  just  enough  liquor  to  keep  from 
burning,  and  parboil  slightly.  Season  the  resc  of  the  liquor  as 
tOK  stewed  oysters  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  flour, 
and  boil  until  done.     Put  the  parboiled  oystera  in  a  baking- 


88  0YSTKS8   eOALLOPED   IN   THE   8IIBLL — ^DEVILLED. 

dish,  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  grated  cracker  or  stale  bread 
and  pepper,  and  pour  as  much  of  the  gravy  as  the  dish  will 
hold.  Put  a  little  of  the  grated  cracker  on  top,  and  set  it  in  the 
ovon  to  brown. — Mtb.  Wi 

Oysters  ScaUoped  in  the  Shell, 

Open  the  shells,  setting  aside  for  use  the  deepest  ones.  Have 
ready  some  melted  butter,  not  hot,  seasoned  with  minced  pazB- 
ley  and  pepper. 

Roll  each  oyster  in  this,  letting  it  drip  as  little  as  may  be, 
and  lay  in  the  shell,  which  should  be  arranged  in  a  baking-pan. 

Add  to  each  a  little  lemon  juice,  sift  bread  crumbs  over  it, 
utid  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  done.    Serve  in  the  shells. — Mrs,  8, 

ScaUoped   Oysters. 

Put  in  the  scallop  shells  as  many  oysters  as  each  will  hold. 
Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  a  few  bread  crumbs. 

Cook  until  well  done ;  add  a  piece  of  butter  just  before  they 
are  served. — Mrs.  JR.  L.  O. 

Devilled  Oysters. 

Put  a  layer  of  raw  oysters  in  a  pan,  and  then  a  layer  of  bread- 
crumbs, black  and  red  pei)per,  salt,  butter,  mustard,  and  a  little 
vinegar  mixed  together. 

Put  alternate  layers  of  each    until   full,  and    then  bake. — 

Mrs,  Duke, 

Devilled   Oysters, 

Drain  one  quart  oyst^irs ;  chop  thoroughly  and  season  with 
cayenne  pepper,  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled 
eg^,  and  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  beaten  and  stirred  in ;  one-half 
as  much  bread  crumbs  as  you  have  oysters,  and  one  larg(j  table- 
spoonful  butter. 

Have  ready  one  dozen  deep  shells,  nicely  cleaned,  and  fill 
them  with  the  oysters ;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
in  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  II.  S, 


TO  OOOK  OYSTERS — TO   FliY   OVSTSBS.  89 

To  Cook  Oysters. 

Pat  into  a  baking-bowl  a  layer  of  cracker-crumbs,  pepper,  and 
batter.  If  the  batter  is  salty  do  not  use  any  salt.  Then  n 
layer  of  oysters,  after  they  have  been  drained  from  their  liquor ; 
do  this  alternately  tiU  the  dish  is  full.  Be  sure  and  put  the 
cracker  crumbs  at  the  top  of  the  dish,  and  bits  of  butter,  also 
pepper :  this  makes  it  brown  nicely.  Set  it  in  a  hot  oven ;  as 
soon  as  browned  it  will  be  ready  for  the  table. — Mrs,  P.  W. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Take  each  oyster  separately  and  put  salt  and  pepper  on  them ; 
then  roll  them  in  equal  portions  of  meal  and  flour.  Fry  them 
in  hot  lard  until  a  light  brown. — Mrs,  D, 

Oyster  Fritters. 

Beat  two  eggs  very  light;  then  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
cream  or  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  dip  the  oysters  in  this  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  B, 

Oyster  Friiiers, 

Wipe  the  oysters  dry.     Beat  6  eggs  light,  and  stir  into  them : 
6  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1^  pint  rich  milk. 
Beat  to  smooth  batter.     Have  in  a  pan  some  butter  and  lard ; 
when  it  begins  to  froth,  put  a  small  ladleful  of  the  batter,  with 
an  oyster  in  the  middle,  into  it  to  fry.     If  too  thin,  add  flour ; 
if  too  thick,  milk. — Mrs,  R, 

To  Fry  Oysters. 

Drain  the  oysters  through  a  sieve ;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  over  them.  Dip  each  oyster  into  meal.  Have  the  pan 
hot,  and  drop  in  an  equal  portion  of  lard  and  butter;  when 
boiling,  put  in  the  oystei*s  and  fry.     Do  not  let  them  stand; 

but  serve  hot. — Mrs,  JK 

8 


9c  fried  ot811£b8 — btbahbd  ot8teb8. 

Fribd  Oysters. 

Drain  the  oysters  through  a  sieve.  Beat  ap  two  cr  three 
eggs.  Have  ready  some  grated  bread  crumbs.  Sprinkle  some 
salt  and  a  little  pepper  over  the  oysters ;  then  dip  each  oyster 
into  the  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Have  the  pan  hot  and  dean  ; 
put  equal  portions  of  butter  and  lard  into  the  pan.  Be  t»iref\il 
to  keep  the  fat  of  oysters  from  baming. — JIfrs,  It. 

To  Fry  Oysters. 

Wash  them  and  dry  them  on  a  dean  napkin ;  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  pounded  crackers  sifbed,  and  let  them  lie  several  hours 
before  frying,  and  they  will  not  shrink. — Mrs.  P. 

To  Fry  Oysters. 

Drain  the  oysters  dry.  Three  eggs  beaten,  and  grated 
crackers.  Dip  the  oyster  first  in  the  egg  and  then  in  the 
crackers ;  do  this  twice.  Grease  the  pan  with  butter  or  lard. 
Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  fry. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Clam  or  Oyster  Fritters. 

Chop  up  the  clam  very  fine  (when  of  oysters,  leave  them 
whole) ;  put  them  in  a  batter  and  fry  them. — Mrs.  D, 

Broiled  Oysters. 

Select  the  largest  oystera,  examining  each  one,  to  see  that  m% 
particle  of  shell  adheres  to  it.  Dry  with  a  nice  linen  cloth ; 
then  pepper  and  salt  them,  and  sift  over  a  little  finely-powdered 
cracker.  Place  them  on  an  oyster  gridiron  over  a  quick  fire. 
As  soon  as  plump,  dip  each  one  in  a  cup  of  melted  fresh  butter ; 
lay  on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  scraped  horseradish  and  pars- 
ley, and  serve. — Mrs.  8.  T. 

Steamed  Oysters. 

Wash  shell  oysters  perfectly  clean ;  lay  them  on  a  steamer, 
so  the  juice  will  not  escajie  from  the  shells  when  opened.     It 


TO  BOAST  OYBTlfiBS — ^PICKLED  OYHTERB.  91 

is  best  to  lay  the  upper  shells  down.  Cover  the  lid  of  the 
steamer  with  a  coarse  towel  and  press  closely  on.  Set  this  over 
a  pot  of  water  boiling  hard.  In  from  twenty  minutes  to  half 
an  hour,  the  shells  will  have  opened.  Have  ready  a  hot  dish, 
on  which  lay  the  oysters ;  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  on  each  oyster.  Serve  imme- 
diately.—J!fr«.  S.  T. 

To  Roast  Oysters. 

Wash  and  wipe  one  peck  large  shell  oysters.  Put  in  a  hot 
oven,  taking  care  to  put  the  upper  shell  downward,  so  the  juice 
will  not  escape.  As  soon  as  the  shells  open,  lay  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve  with  horseiiulish  or  pepper-sauce,  after  sprinkling 
on  them  a  little  salt,  and  putting  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  on  each 
oyster. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

PicKLKD  Oysters. 

1  gallon  oysters. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  *^  ungrouiid  black  pepper. 

1  "  allspice. 

6  blades  mace. 

1  small  piece  cayenne  pepper. 
Pick  oysters  out  from  the  juice  with  a  fork ;  stew  until  gills 
are  opened  well,  then  lay  on  flat  dishes  until  cold ;  put  in  a 
jar,  and  cover  with  equal  parts  of  stewed  juice  and  vinegar.    Let 
stand  two  days. — Mrs.  JR.  R, 

Pickled  Oysters. 

Take  two  hundred  oysters  of  largest  size,  rinse  them  in  their 
own  liquor  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan.  Strain  the  liquor  to 
them,  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  no  mare.  Take  them  out  of 
the  liquor ;  have  ready  one  quart  or  more  of  pure  cider  vine- 
gar, with  which  boil  whole  pepper,  a  lictle  salt,  mace,  cloves,  and 
natmeg. 


92    nOELKD  0Y8THBS— OYSTEB  PIB-— OT8TEB  PAT^S. 

Wben  it  is  cool,  pour  over  the  oysters.  Before  serving  add  a 
few  rav  cranberries  and  thin  slioes  of  lemon. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

PicMed  Oysters, 

Take  one  gallon  oysters  and  cook  them  in  their  own  liquor 
till  nearly  done.  Then  skim  out  the  oysters  and  add  to  tho 
liquor  one  teaspoonful  whole  black  pepper,  one  teaspoonfid  all- 
spice, one  teaspoonful  mace,  a  little  red  pepper  and  half  a  pint 
of  strong  vinegar. 

Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  and  then  pour  over  the  oysters. 
When  nearly  cool,  slice  in  them  a  large  fresh  lemon. — 2lfrs,  CoL 
A.F. 

Oyster  Pie. 

Stew  the  oysters,  not  entirely  done,  with  butter,  pepper  and 
one  tablespoonful  pepper-sauce,  and  salt.  Make  a  paste  of 
one  pound  flour  and  one-half  pound  butter.  Line  the  dish  and 
put  in  the  oysters,  grate  bread  crumbs  over  top,  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  T. 

Oyster  Pie, 

Put  a  paste  in  a  deep  dish.  Wash  the  oysters,  drain  and 
put  them  in  the  dish,  seasoning  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
little  mace,  if  liked ;  then  put  in  a  layer  of  grated  cracker. 
When  the  dish  is  full,  cover  with  paste  and  slips  of  paste  laid 
across ;  then  bake. — Mrs.  W . 

Oyster  Pat^b. 

Stew  some  large  oysters  with  a  little  nutmeg,  a  few  doves, 
some  yolk  of  egg  boiled  hard  and  grated,  a  little  butter  and  as 
much  liquor  from  the  oysters  as  will  cover  them.  WTien 
stewed  a  few  minutes,  take  them  out  of  the  pan  to  cool.  Have 
shells  of  puif  paste,  previously  baked  in  patty  pans,  and  lay  two 
or  three  oysters  in  each. — Mrs.  D. 


otbter  8h0bt  oakb — raw  oy8tbb8.  9t\ 

Oysteb  Short  Cake. 

1  quart  flour. 

3  teaspoonf uLs  baking  powder. 

1  tablespoouful  butter. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

Enough  sweet  milk  to  moisten  well. 
Roll  about  one  inch  thick  and  bake  on  tin  pie  plates  quickly 
While  it  is  baking,  take  one  quai*t  oysters  and  one-half  cup 
water  and  put  on  the  stove ;  then  take  one-half  cup  milk,  and 
one-half  cup  butter  mixed  with  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
and  a  little  salt  or  pepper ;  add  all  together  and  boil  up 
onoe. 

When  the  cakes  are  done,  split  them  open  and  spread  the 
oysters  between  them,  and  some  on  the  top.  Put  the  oystera 
that  are  left  in  a  gravy-dish  and  replenish  when  needed. — 
Jfrs.  J\. 

Oyster  Sausage. 

Chop  one  pint  oysters,  with  one-quarter  pound  veal,  and  one- 
quarter  pound  suet. 

Mix  with  bread  crumbs,  and  pound  all  in  a  mortar.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  adding  an  egg,  well  beaten. 

Make  into  cakes  like  pork  sausage. — Mrs.  E, 

Raw  Oysters. 

Take  each  oyster  separately  on  a  fork  and  drain  from  the 
liquor.  Place  on  the  table  in  an  oyster  tureen  or  salad  bowl ; 
have  near  a  pile  of  small  oblong  dishes ;  scraped  horseradish, 
pepper  sauce,  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  etc.,  so  that  after  being 
helped,  each  guest  may  season  to  taste. 

When  oysters  are  transported  some  distance,  it  is  well  to 
boil  the  liquor  from  which  they  have  been  taken  and  pour  over 
Ihem :  this  makes  them  plump  and  prevents  them  from  being 
slimy. — Mr8,  S.  T. 


Mr  TO   KEBP  OT8TBBS   ALIVE  AND   FATTEN. 

To  KEEP  Otbtbrs  alivx  and  Fatten. 

Mix  one  pint  of  salt  with  thirty  pints  of  water.  Put  tho 
oysters  in  a  tub  that  will  not  leak,  with  their  mouths  upwards 
and  feed  them  with  the  above,  by  dipping  in  a  broom  and 
frequently  passing  over  their  mouths.  It  is  said  that  they  will 
fatten  still  more  by  mixing  fine  meal  with  the  water. — Jfra. 
B- . 

To  Cook  Grabs. 

Take  live  orabs  and  put  them  in  cool  water,  let  them  remain 
for  half  an  hour.  Then  put  them  in  a  vessel,  pour  boiling 
water  on  them  sufficient  to  cover  them;  boil  ten  minutes. 
Take  them  off  and  wipe  them  clean,  firat  amoving  the  dead  men, 
and  proceed  to  remove  the  meat.  Take  tho  upper  shell,  clean 
it.  Season  the  meat  with  pepper,  salt,  mustard,  and  plenty  of 
butter ;  put  all  in  the  shell  again  and  bake  half  an  hour. — Mr» 
K.  Narfdk, 

Cbab  Stew. 

One  peck  live  crabs,  steam  twenty  minutes,  bone  and  pick 
the  claws  and  bodies.  Stew  with  one  pint  milk  or  cream,  the 
flesh  and  eggs  of  the  crabs,  fifteen  minutes.  Flavor  with  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper. — Mrs,  It.  L,  O. 

Devilled  Crab. 

After  crabs  are  picked,  season  with  mustard,  pepper,  salt,  and 
catsup  to  taste.     Add  olive  oil  or  butter. 

Cover  with  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  milk  and  lumps  of 
butter  (put  a  little  milk  in  the  crab  also).  Bake  in  the  shells 
or  in  a  pan. — Miss  E.  W, 

Devilled  Crabs. 

To  the  flesh  of  one  dozen  crabs  boiled  fifteen  minutes  and 
picked  free  from  shell,  add: 


flOrr  GRABS — L0B8TBB  OURRY.  95 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs. 
i  wine  glass  of  cream. 
Yolks  of  3  eggs. 
A  little  chopped  parsley. 
1  tablespoonfdl  bntter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Pat  tiiem  in  the  shell  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — JWra.  M,  B. 
L.  W. 

Soft  Crabs. 

Tarn  ap  the  ends  of  the  shells  and  take  out  the  dead  man^s 
fingers  and  take  off  the  flap,  and  cut  out  the  saud-bag ;  lay 
thera  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  fry.  Then  dust  flour  over 
them,  a  litUe  salt,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  7>. 

DeyilIiBD  Crabs. 

After  the  crabs  are  boiled,  pick  them  up  flne  and  add  one 
third  the  quantity  of  crab,  in  cracker  dust  or  bread  crumbs, 
mustard,  red  and  black  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Return  them 
to  the  top  shells,  and  bake. — Mt8,  D, 

To  Devil  Hard  Crabs. 

Take  them  while  alive,  put  them  in  very  little  water  and 
steam  them  till  perfectly  done  and  brown,  set  them  away  till 
oold,  take  all  out  of  the  shell.  Mix  with  eggs,  bread  crumbs, 
butter,  and  pepper.  Either  put  back  in  the  top  shell  and  bake, 
or  bake  in  pans. — Mrs.  J',  (7. 

LoBSTBR  Curry. 

Put  the  meat  of  a  large  lobster  into  a  stewpan  with  one  blade 
of  mace. 

1  large  cup  of  meat  stock,  or  gravy. 

1  tablespoonful  com  starch,  mixed  smooth,  with  a  little  milk 
or  cream. 

Add  salt. 

1  small  piece  of  butter. 


96  TUB'JXE   OR   TSRRAPIN    BTEW — TO   OOOK  TUBTLBS. 

1  dessertspoonful  curry  powder. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Simmer  for  an  hour  and  serve  hot — Mr$.  C. 

Turtle  or  Terrapin  Stew. 

Aftei  they  are  well  cleaned,  parboil  the  meat,  then  pick  it  to 
pi  sees.  Season  highly  with  |>epper,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  hard- 
boiled  egg,  spices,  lemon,  and  champagne  or  other  wine. 

Stew  until  well  done. 

Stewed  Turtle. 

Make  a  stew  of  the  turtle  and  add  all  the  ingredients  used  in 
the  turtle-soup,  except  wine  and  lemons. — Mrs.  D. 

Terrapin. 

First  cut  up  the  head  and  put  it  in  the  pot  to  boil  with  the 
shell  on ;  when  done  enough  to  remove  the  imder  shell,  take  it 
up  and  pick  to  pieces.  Clean  the  top  shell  well ;  add  a  few 
crackers,  onions,  parsley,  allspice,  black  pepper,  butter,  and 
wine. 

Betum  it  to  the  shell,  put  sliced  lemon  on  and  bake  it. — 
Mrs,  D, 

Turtle  or  Terrapin  Steaks. 

Cut  the  turtle  or  terrapin  in  thin  slices ;  broil  or  fry  them 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 

Turtle  or  Terrapin  in  Batter. 

Smother  the  steaks  in  an  egg-batter.  Season  with  pepper, 
salt,  butter,  and  with  a  little  bread  crumbs ;  fry  or  broil. 

To  Cook  Turtles. 

Drop  four  turtles  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  one  hour ;  then 
take  them  out  and  remove  the  skin  from  the  legs  and  feet,  and 
replace  them  in  fresh  boiling  water,  where  they  should  continue 


FISH.  97 

to  boil  one  and  one-half  hour  and  then  be  taken  out  to  cool. 
When  cold,  clean  them  thoroughly,  removing  the  round  liver 
which  contains  the  gall.  Cut  them  into  small  bits  and  place 
them  in  a  stewpan,  adding  pepper,  salt,  the  eggs  that  are  found 
within,  one  quart  water,  one-half  pound  butter,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  the  flour 
and  water  well  into  the  other  ingredients,  and  stew  about 
twenty  minutes.  As  you  remove  them  from  the  fire,  pour  in 
Que-half  pint  Madeira  wine. — Mrs.  A.  D, 


•■** 


FISIL 

In  selecting  fish,  notice  if  the  fiesh  is  firm  and  hard,  the  eyes 
full  and  prominent,  the  scales  bright,  the  fins  stifl',  and  the  gills 
red,  as  all  these  indications  denote  their  being  fresh.  Wash 
the  fish,  rub  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  it  on  a  dish,  or 
hang  it  up  till  ready  to  cook.  Never  keep  it  lying  in  water, 
either  in  preparing  it  for  cooking,  or  in  trying  to  keep  it  till  the 
next  day. 

In  boiling  fish,  put  it  in  boiling  water,  and  simmer  very 
slowly.  It  will  require  an  hour  to  boil  a  large  fish,  and  about 
twenty  minutes  for  a  small  one.  Every  housekeeper  should 
have  a  fish-kettle  for  fish. 

Be  careful  to  have  boiling-hot  lard  in  the  frying-pan  when 
you  go  to  fry  fish.  First  rub  salt  and  pepper  and  flour  or  meal 
on  the  fish,  then  keep  it  well  covered  while  frying,  as  you 
should  do  to  every  thing  that  is  being  fried.  Doing  this  will 
enable  you  to  fry  the  fish  (or  other  ai*ticle  of  food)  a  pretty 
amber  color,  while  at  the  same  time  it  will  be  perfectly  done. 

Always  liave  a  tin  sheet  for  lifting  boiled  fish  and  for  turn- 
ing broiled  fish.     Before  broiling,  rub  with  pepper  and  salti 

9 


98  FI8H    k  LA  CRKMB — ^IIAUBDT. 

find  ihen  greue  witlj  frettli  butter.  Lay  the  fish  on  a  gridiit>u 
well  greased  with  sweet  lai-d  and  lay  the  tin  sheet  over  it. 
When  you  wish  to  turn,  take  the  gridiron  from  the  fire,  hold- 
ing the  tin  sheet  on  top  the  fish.  Hold  them  togetlier,  then  lay 
them  on  a  table  with  the  tin  sheet  down  and  the  gridiron  upper- 
mostw  Carefully  ndse  the  gridiron,  leaving  the  fish  lying  un- 
broken on  the  tin  sheet.  The  cook  may  now  easily  slide  the 
fish  on  the  gridiron,  put  it  again  on  the  fire  and  brown  the 
other  side,  putting  the  tin  sheet  back  on  top  of  it.  Every 
thing  should  be  covered  while  being  broiled.  When  done,  lay 
it  ou  a  dish  and  pour  over  it  melted  butter  in  which  has  been 
stirred  pepper,  salt,  and  minced  pai*sley.  If  devilled  fish  is 
desired,  add  to  this  dresHing^  one  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegari 
one  of  celery  vinegar,  one  of  walnut  catsup,  one  of  made  mus- 
tard, one  wine-glassful  of  acid  fruit  jelly.  In  making  sauces 
for  fish,  never  use  the  water  in  which  the  fish  has  been  boiled. 

Full  dii*ections  for  stewing  fish  are  to  be  found  in  the  subse- 
quent pages. 

Fish  1  la  CitftMB. 

Boil  a  firm  fish,  remove  the  bones,  pick  it  to  pieces.  Mix 
one  pint  cream  or  milk  with  two  tablespoonfiils  flour,  one  onion, 
one-half  pound  butter  (or  less),  and  salt. 

Set  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  is  as  thick  as  custard.  Fill  a 
baking-dish  alternately  with  fish,  cracker,  and  cream.  Bake  for 
thirty  minutes,  use  four  crackers. — Mrs.  W.  C.  M, 

Halibut. 

Boil  one  pound  halibut,  then  chop  it  very  fine  and  add  eight 
oggs  well  beaten ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  then  one  imp  butter. 

Put  it  in  a  stewpan  and  cook  until  the  eggs  are  done  suiE* 
ciently.     Serve  very  hot  on  toast. — Miss  JF!  N. 

Halibut  should  be  cut  in  slices  of  four  pounds  each.     If  to 


F18H   CHOWDBR— 0AT-FI8H   CHOWDBB  OB   HOO-FISH.        99 

be  boiled,  cover  with  salt  water,  and  skim  often ;  drain  off  and 
serve  with  butter  sauce. 

If  baked  or  fried,  garnish  with  horset*adiah  and  serve  with 
melted  butter. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Fiy  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  cut  the  fish  in  small  pieces,  pare 
«ud  slice  the  potatoes,  add  a  little  onion  chopped  fine. 

Place  all  in  layera  in  the  kettle ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Stew  over  a  slow  fire  thirty  minutes. 

Cat-fish  Chowder. 

To  be  made  of  New  River  cat-fish. 

Wash  the  fish  in  warm  water,  put  it  on  in  just  water  enough 
to  cover  it,  boil  until  tender  or  until  the  bones  will  slip  out ; 
take  out  the  largest  bones,  chop  up  the  fish,  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
with  a  pint  of  water,  a  large  lump  of  butter. 

1  cup  of  cream,  pepper  and  not  much  salt. 

1  onion,  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  one-half  teacupful  walnut 
catsup. 

Stew  until  quite  thick,  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  serve 
hot.— Jfr«.  F.  W. 

Cat-fish  Chowder  or  Hoo-fish. 

Take  two  cat-fish,  skin,  and  boil  till  thoroughly  done ;  pick 
very  fine  and  add  : 

2  good  sized  onions. 
\  pound  butter. 
1  tablesi>oonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Add  a  little  celery  or  celery-seed,  a  little  thyme,  a  little  par^ 

Pour  over  all  about  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  cook  fast 
bout  half  an  hour. — Mxm  F.  N. 


100  fi8h  ohowdes — baksd  shbbp's-uead. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Take  any  large  fish,  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  laj  some  slices  of 
tat  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot  and  then  a  layer  of  fish, 
onions,  cracker  dust,  red  and  black  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 

Then  more  layers,  until  you  have  used  all  the  fish.  Cover  the 
whole  with  water  and  cook  until  well  done. — Mr8,  D, 


Boiled  Sheep Vhead. 

Clean  the  fish  and  boil  well  done.  Serve  hot  with  butter 
and  egg  sauce. 

To  Bake  a  Sheep's-head. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  lard 
in  a  skillet ;  also,  with  that,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  a  little 
parsley,  one  pint  boiling  water,  a  little  wine,  catsup,  salt,  and 
cayenne  pepper.  Boil  a  few  minutes ;  then  take  four  eggs,  half  a 
pint  cream  or  butter ;  beat  well  together.  Lay  the  fish  in  a 
large  deep  dish,  pour  gravy  from  skillet  over  it;  spread  butter 
over  top  of  fish.  The  bottom  of  the  oven  to  be  quite  hot,  top 
slow, — Mi88  E.   Wi 

Boiled  Sheep's-head  or  Rock. 

Lay  the  fish  in  a  fish  boiler,  in  a  cloth,  to  prevent  breaking. 
Throw  into  the  water  a  handful  parsley,  and  when  the  fish  is 
done,  lay  some  sprigs  on  it  in  the  dish. — Mrs,  D. 

Baked  Sheep's-head. 

Put  the  fish  in  a  pan  and  cover  with  water ;  put  a  little  par- 
sley, onions,  and  fat  bacon,  chopped  up  together,  black  pepper 
and  sail,  in  the  fish  and  over  it,  and  when  nearly  done,  beat  up 
one  egg  and  a  little  fiour,  and  pour  over  it  to  thicken  the 
gravy.  Rock  or  shad  may  be  cooked  the  same  way.— 
Mrs.  J). 


BAKED   SHSBpVhSAD— BAKED  BOOK.  101 

Baked  Sheep* 8-hecui. 

When  leadj  for  cooking,  salt  and  pepper  well,  gash  the  sides 
In  three  or  four  places.  Cut  four  onions  very  tine,  to  which 
add  one  pint  bread  ci*umbs,  fat  meat  minced  very  line,  as  it 
suits  better  than  lard,  cayenne  pepper,  thyme,  a  little  salt,  and 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  all  mashed  together,  with  which  stuff  the 
fish  inside  and  gashes  on  the  outside.  Then  sprinkle  over  with 
flour  and  black  pepper ;  put  into  a  large  pan  with  one  quart 
cold  water.  Bake  two  hours,  slowly.  Serve  with  or  without 
sauce,  according  to  taste. — Miss  F,  N". 

Boiled  Hook-fish. 

Clean  the  fish  nicely,  rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
into  a  large  deep  pan,  that  it  may  lie  at  full  length ;  cover  with 
cold  water,  adding  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  steadily  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour;  dish  and  serve  with  melted  butter  and 
8anoe  or  catsup. — Miss  F.  N". 

JBoUed  Rock-fish. 

Clean  nicely  and  hang  it  up ;  do  not  lay  it  in  water,  but 
wash  it  when  ready  for  cooking.  Put  on  in  boiling  water, 
seasoning  with  salt  to  taste.  It  takes  two  hours  to  boil,  if 
large.  Serve  with  egg  sauce,  and  send  to  the  table  in  a  napkin 
to  kenp  hot. — Mrs.  W, 

To  Stew  Rock-fish. 

Take  a  rock,  clean  and  season  with  parsley,  sweet  marjoram, 
onions,  one-half  pint  water,  salt  to  taste,  one  pint  Port  wine, 
one-half  pound  butter,  and  a  little  flour.  Put  them  in  a  dish, 
and  set  in  a  ste^vpan.     One  hour  is  sufficient  for  cooking. — 

Mrs.  j:  T. 

Baked  Rook. 
Boil  the  fish  and  take  out  the  bones.     Season  with  oream. 


102  TO  PIOKLB   BOOK — TO  BBOU.  SHAD. 

butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  grated  bread  crumbB  over  the  top. 
Bake  slightly  in  a  flat  dish  or  scollop  shells. — Mrs.  IL 

To  Pickle  Rock. 

Cufc  a  rock-fish  into  pieces  and  put  in  a  kettle  with  sufficient 
water  to  cover  it.  Put  in  a  handful  of  salt,  some  white  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  allspice,  a  few  cloves  and  mace. 

When  the  fish  is  nearly  done,  add  a  quart  of  vinegar.     In 

putting  away,  use  as  much  liquor  as  will  cover  it. — Mt9,  JT. 

W,  S, 

Baked  Shad. 

Open  the  shad  down  the  back,  wash  well  and  salt  it ;  wipe 
dry  and  rub  inside  and  out  with  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Pi*e- 
pare  a  stuffing  of  bread,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  thyme,  or 
parsley,  celery-seed,  a  little  chopped  onion,  piece  of  butter,  size 
of  a  walnut. 

Tie  up  the  fish  and  put  in  a  baking  pan  with  one  pint  water 
(to  a  good  sized  fish)  and  butter,  size  of  a  hen's  egg.  Sprinkle 
with  flour,  baste  well  and  bake  slowly  an  hour  and  a  half. — 
Mrs.  jr.  IT.  F. 

To  Fby  Shad. 

Glean  and  hang  in  a  cool  place.  When  ready  to  use  wash 
thoroughly,  cut  up  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  pepper,  salt, 
and  fry  with  lard. — Mrs,  R . 

To  Roast  Shad. 
Fill  the  inside  with  forcemeat,  sew  it  up  and  tie  it  on  a 
l)oard,  not  pine,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  a  little  salt,  and  pep- 
per,  and  place  before  the  fire.  When  done  one  side,  turn  it; 
when  sufficiently  done,  pull  out  the  thread ;  dish  and  serve  with 
drawn  butter  and  parsley. — Mrs.  D. 

To  Broil  Shad. 

Clean,  wash,  and  split  the  shad,  and  wipe  it  dry. 

Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  it  over  a  clear,  alow 


FCKfTED  SHAD — 8TUROBON  CUTLBT.  103 

fire,  with  the  skin  down  so  as  to  retain  the  juice;  put  on  a 
clean  gridiron,  rub^i»d  with  lard.  Turn  it  when  nearly  done ; 
take  up,  and  season  witli  a  generous  piece  of  butter,  salt,  and 
|>epper  to  taste. — Mr9,  S, 

Potted  Shad. 

Out  the  fish  as  for  frying ;  pack  in  a  stone  jar  with  layers  of 
mixed  spices,  seasoning  with  salt ;  after  the  jar  is  filled,  pour 
vinegar  over ;  cover  tightly  with  a  cloth.  Put  the  jar  in  a  large 
pot  of  water  and  boil  until  the  fish  is  thoroughly  done. 

A  nice  relish  for  tea. — Mrs.  (7.  L,  T, 

To  Barbecue  a  Shad. 

Split  the  back  of  the  fish,  pepper  and  salt  it,  and  put  on  the 
gridiron  with  the  skin  down. 

Baste  the  upper  side  of  the  fish  with  butter ;  brown  a  little 
piece  of  butter  with  a  small  quantity  of  flour,  and  when  brown 
add  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  water. 

Dish  in  a  tureen. — Mrs.  t/l  Wl  S, 

Scolloped  Sturgeon. 

Four  pounds  sturgeon,  boiled  ;  when  cold,  pick  to  pieces  and 
then  wash  and  squeeze  out  the  water.  Make  a  mayonnaise 
di-essing,  using  celery,  cayenne  pepper  instead  of  black  pepper, 
and  salt.     Serve  on  white  lettuce  leaves. — Mirt,  R.  R, 

Sturgeon  Cutlet. 

Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  fibah ;  cut  it  into  steak  pieces. 
Beat  up  the  yolks  of  eggs  enough  to  moisten  the  pieces  well ; 
dip  them  into  the  beaten  egg.  Have  ready  a  dish  of  grated 
bread  crumbs  (stale  bread  is  best),  then  roll  them  in  the  bread 
crumbs  and  pepper  them  well. 

Prepare  a  vessel  of  melted  lard,  have  it  boiling  hot,  but  not 
burnt;  lay  in  the  pieces  of  fish  and  cover  with  a  lid.     Turn 


104  STURGEON  OR   DRUM — CX)D-FI811    BALLS. 

them  over  as  they  brown  and  remove  the  lid  when  they  are 
nearly  done. — Jfrs.  Dr.  P,    C, 

Sturgeon  or  Drum. 

Slice  it  like  beefsteak,  and  roll  in  a  thin  egg  batter,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

Chopped  parsley  and  black  pepper  may  be  added,  if  liked. — 
Mtb,  2>.,  Suffolk, 

Baked  Sturgeoi^ 

Wash  the  skin  weU^  put  in  a  pan  and  bake  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Then  take  it  out  on  a  dish  ;  pierce  it  with  a  knife 
in  several  places.  Make  a  stuffing  of  pot-meat,  bread  crumbs, 
onions,  parsley,  thyme,  pepper,  and  salt,  all  chopped  well 
together.  Stuff  the  holes  with  the  mixture  and  put  the  rest  in 
the  gravy ;  return  to  the  pan  and  bake  until  done. — Mrs,  D. 

To  Fry  Perch. 

Sprinkle  with  salt  and  dredge  with  ilour ;  after  a  while  dredge 
with  flour  the  other  side.  When  the  lard  boils  hard,  skim  it 
well  and  put  in  the  fish.     Serve  hot. — Mrs,  W, 

To  Fry  Trout. 

Split  the  fish  down  the  back,  insert  a  tliin  slice  of  fat  pork. 
Squeeze  lemon  juice  over  it  and  fry  brown. — Mrs,  e/I  Z,  La. 

Boiled  Cod-pish. 

Boil  over  a  slow  fire  and  skim  frequently.  Season  with  salt. 
Giimish  with  pai-sley  and  rings  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  serve 
with  butter  and  egg-sauce. 

Cod-fish  Balls. 

One-fourth  fish,  to  three-fourths  potatoes,  eggs  enough  to 
moisten.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  brown. 


NANTUOKBT  00D-FI8H — ^TO  BBOIL  MACKEKEI^  105 

l^ASTvcKST  Cod-fish. 

Gnt  the  thick  part  out  of  a  firm,  white  dried  codfish,  and  soak  it 
over  night,  then  cut  into  very  small  pieces  and  parboil  for  a  few 
minutes,  changing  the  water  until  the  fish  remains  but  slightly 
saltad.  Drain  off  the  water,  leaving  the  fish  in  the  saucepan. 
Pour  over  a  little  more  milk  than  will  cover  it ;  when  it  becomes 
heated,  add  a  little  butter  and  pepper,  thicken  with  flour  stin-ed 
smooth  in  milk.     Stir  constantly  for  a  few  minutes. 

To  Dress  Salt  Cod-fish. 

Take  one-third  of  a  large  fish ;  soak  it  from  three  to  four 
bouts ;  next,  boiling  it  till  thoroughly  done,  pick  the  meat  fine, 
taking  out  all  the  bones.     Then  add  : 

3  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine. 
3  to  4  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed. 
Mix  all  well  together  in  a  stewpan,  with — 

1  teacup  of  hot  water. 
Salt  and  mustard  to  the  taste. 
Boil  half  an  hour,  and  add  a  liberal  supply  of  butter  just 
before  serving.     If  preferred,  the  salt  and  mustard  need  not  be 
put  in  until  during  the  cooking. — Mrs.  A,   G. 

Boiled  Mackerel. 

Well  wash  the  fish,  put  it  into  nearly  boiling  water  with  one 
tablespoonful  salt  in  it ;  boil  up  quickly,  then  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  if  the  fish  be  very  large,  a 
few  minutes  longer.     Serve  in  a  hot  dish. — Mrs.  B. 

To  Broil  Mackerel. 

If  the  mackerel  is  fresh,  after  it  is  nicely  scaled  and  cleaned, 
dry  it ;  pepper  and  salt  and  broil  it  on  a  gridiron  ;  baste  it  with 
fresh  butter.  After  it  is  broiled,  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
melted  butter  over  it,  and  serve.  If  tlie  fish  is  salt,  pour  boil- 
ing water  over  it,  soak  it  several  hours ;  butter  and  pepper,  and 
broil ;  serve  in  the  same  way  as  the  fresh. — Mrs,  R. 


106  TO  OOOK  SALT  XA.OKBRBL — SALKOM   STEAK. 

To  Cook  Salt  Mackerel. 

8oak  the  fish  over  night  in  fresh  water.  In  the  morning 
drain  off  the  water  and  place  on  a  gridiron  to  broil,  dressing 
with  hot  butter. — Mrs,  T, 

Baked  Salmon. 

When  washed   and   dried,  sprinkle  over  pep]>er  and  9alt. 

Have  ready  in  a  baking-pan  a  small  grating ;  lay  the  fish  on 

this,  with  bits  of  butter  over  it ;  set  in  a  hot  oveu,  basting  often 

ana  freely  with  butter.     When  nicely  browned,  butter  a  sheet 

of  white  paper  and  lay  over  it,  to  prevent  its  getting  too  dry ; 

when  done  and  tender,  place  on  a  hot  dish.     Add  to  the  gravy 

one  tettcupful  milk,  one  tablespoonful  pepi>er  vinegar,  pepper, 

salt,  and  a  mashed  Irish  potato  smoothly  mixed  in ;  boil,  and 

pour  over  the  fish.     Sift  over  all  browned  cracker.     Garnish 

with  bleached  tops  of  celery  and  curled  pai-sley  alternately. — 

Mr8,  T. 

Boiled  Salmon. 

After  the  fish  has  been  cleaned  and  washed,  dry  it  and  sew  it 
up  in  a  doth ;  lay  it  in  a  fish-kettle,  cover  with  warm  water, 
and  simmer  until  done  and  tender.  Meanwhile  have  ready 
in  a  saucepan  one  pint  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  fresh  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley,  and  thyme ;  let  it  boil  up  once, 
not  too  quickly.  Take  the  fish  from  the  kettle,  carefully  unwrap 
it,  lay  it  for  a  moment  on  a  folded  napkin  to  dry.  Have  ready 
a  hot  dish,  lay  the  fish  on  it  carefully,  witJiout  breaking  it,  pour 
over  the  cream.  Slice  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  lay  over  the 
fish  alternately  with  sliced  lemon.  Border  the  edges  of  the  dish 
with  curled  parsley. — Mrs,  8,  T, 

Salmon  Steak. 

When  well  dried,  ])epper  and  salt,  sift  over  powdered  cracker, 
and  lay  upon  a  gridiron,  which  has  been  first  greased  with  but- 
ter or  lard,  over  hot  coals.  As  soon  as  the  side  next  to  the  fire 
is  bro^  n,  turn  it  by  carefully  slipping  under  it  a  batter*cake 


PIOXLKD  SALMON — HAUNOH  OF   VENISON.  107 

cumer  and  holding  the  fish  on  it  with  the  other  hand,  lest  it 
shoidd  break.  When  both  sides  are  of  a  light  brown,  lay  in  a 
hot  dish;  pepper  and  salt  again;  pour  over  melted  butter; 
place  the  cover  on,  and  serve. — Mrs,  T. 

Pickled  Salmon. 

Soak  the  salmon  twenty-four  hours,  changing  the  water.  Put 
it  in  boiling  waier,  with  a  little  vinegar.  When  done  and 
ooid,  boil  your  vinegar  with  spice  and  pour  on  the  fish. — Mrs. 
A.  P. 

German  Fish  Stew. 

Put  the  fish  in  a  kettle  to  boil.  Stew  together  in  a  saucepan 
one  onion  chopped  fine  and  a  wine-glass  of  sweet  oil ;  when  well 
done,  pour  them  in  with  the  fish.  Then  mix  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  juice  of  two  lemons  strained,  one  tablespoonful  sifted  fiour. 
Beat  these  well  together,  and  pour  upon  the  fish  when  nearly 
done.  Then  add  ginger,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste ;  stew  three 
or  four  minutes,  after  mixing  all  the  ingredients.  Oysters  may 
be  cooked  by  the  same  receipt,  only  substituting  one  quart  oys- 
ters for  the  fish. — Mrs.  A,  D. 


■•♦•- 


GAME. 

Haunch  of  Venison. 

Rub  the  venison  over  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Bepeat 
the  rubbing.  After  it  has  been  put  in  the  oven,  put  in  as  much 
cold  water  as  will  prevent  burning  and  draw  the  gravy.  Stick 
five  or  six  cloves  in  different  parts  of  the  venison.  Add  enough 
water  to  make  sufficient  gravy.  Just  before  dinner,  put  in  a 
glass  of  red  wine  and  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  fiour,  and  let 
it  stew  a  little  longer. — Mrs.  T, 


108         ysnisok  haunch — ^to  babbeoue  bquibbel. 

Yenison  Haunch. 

Prepare  the  yenison  as  you  would  mutton. 

Put  in  a  baking-pan,  lard  with  a  little  bacon,  add  a  pint  of 
water,  a  gill  of  red  wine,  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 
Bake  quickly,  and  serve  with  or  without  gravy. 

Stewed  Yenisok. 

Cut  in  tolerably  thick  slices.  Put  in  an  oven  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  water  and  a  piece  of  lard.  Cook  till  nearly  done, 
then  pour  off  the  gravy  and  baste  it  well  with  a  large  spoonful 
of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Stewed  Venieon, 

Slice  cold  venison  in  a  chafing  dish  and  add — 

A  cup  of  water. 

A  small  teacup  of  i*ed  wine. 

A  small  teacup  of  currant  jelly. 

A  tabiespoonful  of  butter. 

A  teaspoonfiil  of  made  mustard. 

A  little  yellow  pickle. 

A  little  chopped  celery. 

A  little  mushroom  catsup. 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 
The  same  receipt  will  answer  for  cold  mutton. — Mrs.  JR. 
Z.  0. 

To  Barbecue  Squirrel. 

Put  some  slices  of  fat  bacon  in  an  oven.  Lay  the  squirrels 
on  them  and  lay  two  slices  of  bacon  on  the  top.  Put  them  ir 
the  oven  and  let  them  cook  until  done.  Lay  them  on  a  dish 
and  set  near  the  fire.  Take  out  the  bacon,  sprinkle  one  spoon- 
f al  of  flour  in  the  gravy  and  let  it  brown.  Then  pour  in  one 
teacup  of  water,  one  tabiespoonful  of  butter,  and  some  tomato 
or  walnut  catsup.  Let  it  ^ool,  and  then  pour  it  over  th« 
aquirrel. 


boast  babbit — stewed  babbit.  109 

Roast  Babbit. 

Stew  the  rabbit.  After  boiling  the  haslet  and  liver,  stew 
tbem  with  parsley,  thyme,  celery* seed,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 
for  gravy.  Soak  a  piece  of  loaf  bread,  a  short  time,  in  water. 
Mix  with  it  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  some  butter,  for  stuffing ; 
then  soak  it  in  milk  and  cream.  Sprinkle  the  inside  of  the 
rabbit  with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  it  with  the  above  dressing,  sew 
it  up,  and  roast  or  bake  quick^. — Mrs,  JB. 

Babbecueb  Rabbit, 

Lay  the  rabbit  in  salt  and  water  half  an  hour,  scald  with 
boiling  water,  wipe  dry,  grease  with  butter^  and  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  a  little  salt.  Lay  it  on  the  gridiron,  turning  often 
so  that  it  may  cook  through  and  through,  without  becoming 
hard  and  dry.  When  brown,  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  plenti- 
fully on  both  sides,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Set  in 
the  oven,  while  preparing  four  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  of 
made  mustard,  and  one  of  currant  jelly  or  brown  sugar.  Pour 
this  over  the  rabbit,  rubbing  it  in,  then  pour  over  the  gravy 
and  serve  hot. — Mrs*  T, 

Stewed  Rabbit. 

Cut  up  the  rabbit  and  wash  it.  Put  it  in  a  stewpan  and 
season  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  in  half  a  pint  of  water, 
and  when  this  has  nearly  stewed  away,  add  half  a  pint  of  Port 
"▼ine,  two  or  thi*ee  blades  of  mace,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
mixed  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Let  it  stew  gently 
till  quite  tender,  and  then  serve  hot. — Mrs,  (7.  (7. 

Stewed  JRabbit, 

Cut  a  rabbit  into  eight  pieces.  After  soaking  in  salt  and 
water,  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  slice  of  pork  or  bacon,  and 
with  more  than  enough  water  to  cover  it.  When  nearly  done, 
take  out  the  pieces,  strain  the  water  in  which  they  have  boiled, 
and  retuim  all  to  the  stewpan,  with  a  teacup  of  milk,  a  little 


110       WILD  TUBKBT — TO  BOABT  WILD  FOWL  IN  ▲  8T0VB. 

pepper,  salt,  chopped  onion  and  parsley.  After  this  boils  up, 
stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  in  which  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  has  been  rubbed.  Let  it  boil  up  once  more ;  then 
serve  in  a  covei*ed  dish,  with  four  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  over 
it,  and  grated  bread  crumbs.  The  same  receipt  will  answer  for 
squirrel. — Mr»*  T. 

Wild   Turkey. 

If  the  lurkey  is  old,  after  it  is  dressed  wash  it  inside  thor- 
oughly with  soda  and  water.  Rinse  it  and  plunge  it  into  a  pot 
of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Make  a  stuffing  of  bits  of 
pork,  beef,  or  any  other  cold  meat,  plenty  of  chopped  celery, 
stewed  giblets,  hard-boiled  eggs,  pounded  cracker,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  a  heaping  spoonful  of  butter.  Work  this  well  and  fill 
the  turkey.  With  another  large  spoonful  of  butter  grease  the 
bird,  and  then  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  it.  Lay  in  a  pan, 
with  a  pint  of  stock  or  broth  in  which  any  kind  of  meat  has 
been  boiled.  Place  in  a  hot  oven.  When  it  begins  to  brown, 
dredge  with  flour  and  baste,  turning  often,  so  that  each  part 
may  be  equally  bi^owned.  Put  a  buttei*ed  sheet  of  paper  over 
the  breast,  to  prevent  dryness.  When  thoroughly  done,  lay  on 
a  dish,  brown  some  crackers,  pound  and  sift  over  it,  and  serve 
with  celery  or  oyster  sauce. — Mrs,  T, 

A  Simpler  Way  to  Prepare  WUd  Tv/rkey. 

Prepare  the  turkey  as  usiial,  rub  the  inside  with  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper,  and  put  in  the  baking-pan,  with  water  enough 
to  make  gravy.  Cut  up  the  gizzard  and  liver  with  a  lump  of 
butter  and  a  spoonful  of  cream.  Mix  with  the  gravy  and  serve 
hot 

To  Boast  WUd  Fowl  in  a  Stove. 

Put  them  on  a  I'ack  above  a  pan,  so  that  the  gravy  will  drip 
through.  This  makes  them  as  delicate  as  if  roasted  on  a  spit. 
If  roasted  in  a  pan,  they  will  be  exceedingly  greasy  and  have 


WILD  GO08B — TO  OOOK  WILD  DUOK  FOR  BBBAKFA6T.   Ill 

the  Miovey  taste  to  which  so  many  persons  object. — Mrs.  JT, 
W.S. 

Wild  Goose. 

After  the  goose  is  dressed,  soak  it  several  hours  in  salt  and 
water.  Put  a  small  onion  inside  and  plunge  it  into  boiling 
water  for  twenty  minutes.  Stuff  with  chopped  celery,  chopped 
eggs,  mashed  potatoes,  bits  of  fat  pork  or  other  cold  meat ;  a 
little  butter;  raw  tnmip  grated;  a  tablespoonful  of  pepper 
vinegar ;  a  little  chopped  onion  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

A  teacup  of  stock  or  broth  must  be  put  in  the  pan  with  the 
fowL  Butter  it,  dredge  with  flour,  and  baste  often.  Pin  a 
buttered  paper  over  the  breast  to  prevent  its  becoming  hard. 
Serve  with  mushroom  or  celery  sauce,  or,  for  a  simpler  taste, 
serve  merely  with  its  own  gravy. — Mru,  T, 

Wild   Goose. 

Put  a  small  onion  inside,  a  slice  of  pork,  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
spoonful  of  red  wine. 

Lay  in  a  pan  with  water  enough  to  make  gravy.  Dredge 
with  flour,  and  baste  with  butter  frequently.  Cook  quickly 
and  serve  with  gravy  made  as  for  wild  turkey. 

Wild  Duck. 

When  the  duck  is  ready  dressed,  put  in  it  a  small  onion, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  red  wine.  Lay  in  a  pan  with 
water  enough  to  make  the  gravy.  Cook  in  tifleeu  or  twenty 
minutes,  if  the  fire  is  brisk.  Serve  with  giavy  made  as  for 
wild  turkey. 

Canvas-back  ducks  are  cooked  in  the  same  way,  only  you 
leave  on  their  heads  and  do  not  use  onion  with  them. — Mrs. 
B.Z.  0. 

To  Cook  Wild  Duck  for  BreakfasU 
Split  open  in  the  back,  put  in  a  pan  with  a  little  water,  but- 


113  TO   BBOIL   PARTRIDGES — ^TO   BROIL   PI6B0N6. 

ler,  pepper  and  salt^  and  cook  till  tender.     Baste  with  flour.  If 
for  dinner,  cook  whole. — Mtb,  JT,  L,  C, 

To  Broil  Partridges. 

Place  them  in  salt  and  water,  an  hour  or  two  before  broiling. 
When  taken  out,  wipe  them  dry,  and  rub  them  all  over  with 
fresh  butter,  pepper  and  Siilt.  Fiinst  broil  the  under  or  split 
side  on  the  gridiron,  over  bright,  clear  coals,  turning  until  the 
upper  side  is  of  a  fine,  light  brown.  It  must  be  cooked  prin- 
cipally from  the  under  side.  When  done,  rub  well  again  with 
fresh  butter  and  if  not  ready  to  serve  them  immediately,  put 
them  in  a  large  shallow  tin  bucket,  cover  it  and  set  it  over  a 
lK>t  or  kettle  of  boiling  water,  which  will  keep  them  hot  with* 
out  making  them  hard  or  dry  and  will  give  time  for  the  many 
"  last  things  "  to  be  done  before  serving  a  meal.  When  served, 
sift  over  them  powdered  ciuoker,  first  browned. — Mt9,  T. 

To  Roast  Partridges. 

Clean  the  birds  as  for  stuffing.  Hub  with  butter,  salt  and 
pe2)per.  Put  in  sheets  of  letter  paper  and  allow  to  cook  in  this 
way. — Mrs.  W.  C. 

To  Cook  I'artridges  and  Pheasants. 

Place  them  in  a  steamer,  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  till 
tender. 

Have  ready  a  saucepan  of  large  fresh  oysters,  scalded  just 
enough  to  make  them  plump  and  seasoned  with  pepper-sauce, 
butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Rub  the  cavity  of  the  birds  with  salt 
and  pepper,  fill  with  oysters  and  sew  up.  Broil  till  a  light 
brown.  Place  on  a  hot  dish  and  sift  over  them  browned 
cracker.  Add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of 
pounded  cracker  to  the  oyster  liquor.  Boil  it  up  once  and 
pour  into  the  dish,  but  not  over  the  birds. — Mrs.  T. 

To  Broil  Pigeons. 
Pigeons  may  be  broiled  the  same  as  chickens,  only  cover  th^ 


TO  COOK  80BA,  ORTOLANS,  AND  OTHEB  SMALL  BIRDS.     113 

breast  with  slices  of  bacon.  When  nearly  done,  remove  the 
bacon,  dredge  with  flour  and  baste  with  butter.  They  will  be 
done  in  half  an  hour. 

Stewed  Pigeons. 

The  pigeons  must  be  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  maoe 
and  sweet  herbs.  Wrap  the  seasoning  up  in  a  piece  of  butter 
and  put  it  in  the  pigeon.  Then  tie  up  the  neck  and  vest  and 
half  roast  the  pigeons.  Then  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a 
quart  of  good  gravy,  a  little  white  wine,  some  pickled  mush- 
rooms, a  few  peppercorns,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  a  bit 
of  lemon  peel,  a  bit  of  onion  an<]  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Stew  until  done,  then  thicken  with  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs. 

Garnish  with  lemon. 

Pigeon  Pie. 

Take  six  young  pigeons.  After  they  are  drawn,  trussed,  and 
singed,  stuff  them  with  the  chopped  livers  mixed  with  parsley, 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Cover  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  with  rather  small  pieces  of  beef.  Od  the  beef,  place  a 
thin  layer  of  chopped  parsley  and  mushrooms,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Over  this  place  the  pigeons,  between  each 
puttuig  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg.  Add  some  brown  sauce 
or  giavy.  Cover  with  puff  paste  and  bake  the  pie  for  an  hour 
and  a  half. — Mrs.  C.  (J. 

To  Dress  Reed  Birds. 

Pick  open  and  carefully  wash  one  dozen  or  more  birds. 
Place  them  between  the  folds  of  a  towel,  and  with  a  rolling-pin 
masli  the  bones  quite  flat.  Season  with  salt  and  a  littlo 
cayenne  and  black  pepper.  Either  fry  or  broil  on  a  gridiron 
made  for  broiling  oysters.  This  must  be  done  over  a  clear  fire. 
When  done,  season,  put  a  lump  of  butter  on  each  bird  and 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  A,  M.  D, 

To  Cook  Soka,  Ortolans,  and  Other  Small  Birds. 

Pr spare  as  you  would  a  chicken  for  roasting.     Lay  in  a  pan 

10 


114  MBAIB. 

and  pour  boiling  water  over  them  or,  if  oonvenient,  steam  them. 
Scald  a  few  large  fresh  oysters  till  just  plump,  season  them  with 
cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Pour  into  the  cavity  of  each 
bird  a  few  drops  of  pepper-sauce  and  then  put  a  large  oyster  in 
each.  Broil  a  short  time,  frequently  turning  that  they  may  not 
become  dry.  If  not  ready  to  serve  them  as  soon  as  they  are 
done,  lay  in  a  tin  bucket,  butter  them  and  sprinkle  them 
again  with  black  pepper,  cover  the  bucket  and  set  it  over  boil- 
ing water  till  wanted.  When  laid  in  the  dish,  sift  browned 
cracker  over  the  birds,  and  pour  gravy  into  the  dish. — 
Mrs.  T. 

To  Cook  Soray  OrtolanSy  and  Other  SmcUl  Birds, 

After  they  are  split  open  in  the  back  and  dressed,  lay  them 
in  weak  salt  and  water  for  a  short  time.  Then  lay  them  on  a 
board  and  roll  with  a  rolling-pin  to  flatten  the  breastbone. 
Put  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  on  them.  Lay  them  on  a  gridiron 
and  broil  slowly.  When  just  done,  add  more  butter  and  pep- 
per, lay  in  a  flat  tin  bucket,  which  set  over  a  vessel  of  boDing 
water  to  keep  the  birds  hot,  juicy,  and  tender  till  wanted. — 
Mrs.  T. 

SoRA,  Ortolans,  Robins,  and  Other  Shall  Birds. 

They  should  be  carefully  cleaned,  buttered,  sprinkled  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  broiled.  When  they  are  served,  butter 
them  again.  If  you  like,  serve  each  bird  on  a  piece  of  toast^ 
and  pour  over  them  a  sauce  of  red  wine,  mushroom  catsup, 
salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and  celery. 


•  #• 


MEATS. 

All  meats  are  better  in  winter  for  being  kept  several  weeks, 
and  it  is  well,  in  summer,  to  kee[)  them  as  long  as  you  can  with 


MBATS.  1 15 

out  danger  of  their  being  tainted  If  it  is  not  in  your  power  to 
keep  meat  in  an  ice-house,  in  summer,  keep  it  in  a  cool  dark  cellar, 
wrapped  around  with  wet  cloths,  on  top  of  which  lay  boughs  of 
elilerberry.  The  evaporation  from  the  cloth  will  keep  the  meat 
oool  and  the  elderberry  will  keep  oif  insects. 

If  you  should  unfortunately  be  obliged  to  use  stale  meat  or 
poultry,  rub  it  in  and  out  with  soda,  before  washing  it.  Tough 
meats  and  poultry  are  rendered  more  tender  by  putting  a  little 
vinegar  or  a  few  slices  of  lemon  in  the  water  in  which  they  are 
boiled.  The  use  of  an  acid  will  save  time  and  fuel  in  cooking 
them,  and  will  render  them  more  tender  and  digestible. 

If  possible,  keep  the  meat  so  clean  that  it  will  not  be  necea- 
■ary  to  wash  it,  as  water  extracts  the  juices.  When  it  is  fro- 
zen, lay  it  in  cold  water  to  thaw,  and  then  cook  quickly,  to  pro- 
vent  its  losing  its  moisture  and- sweetness. 

In  roasting  or  boiling,  use  but  little  salt  at  first,  as  it  hardens 
meat  to  do  otherwise.  In  roasting,  baste  frequently,  to  prevent 
che  meat  from  hardening  on  tlie  outside,  and  try  to  preserve  the 
juices.  If  possible,  roast  the  meat  on  a  spit  betbre  a  large,  open 
fire,  after  using  salt,  pepper,  butter  or  lard,  and  dredging  with 
flour.  Where  an  open  fire-place  cannot  be  obtained,  however, 
the  meat  may  be  well  roasted  in  a  stove  or  range.  Mutton, 
pork,  shote  and  veal  should  be  well  done,  but  beef  should  be 
cooked  rare. 

In  boiling,  put  on  salt  meat  in  cold  water,  but  fresh  meat  in 
hot.  Remember  also  that  salt  meat  requires  more  water  and  a 
longer  time  to  cook  than  fresh.  Boil  slowly,  removing  the  scum 
that  rises  when  it  begins  to  simmer.  Keep  a  tea-kettle  of  boil- 
ing water  at  hand  to  replenish  the  water  in  the  pot,  as  it  boils 
away.  Do  not  let  the  meat  boil  too  hard  or  too  long,  as  this 
wOl  toughen  it  and  extract  the  juices.  Add  salt  :o  fresh  nieat^ 
just  before  it  is  done. 

Lardering  beef,  veal,  and  poultry  is  a  great  improvement^ 
keeping  it  moist  whilst  cooking  and  adding  richness  to  the  fla- 
vor.    Lardering  consists  in  introducing  slips  of  clear  fat  bacon 


116  HOW  TO  SELBOT  MEATS. 

or  salt  pork,  into  the  surface  of  meat,  by  means  of  a  pin,  sharp 
at  one  end  and  cleft  into  four  divisions  at  the  other.  This  pin 
may  be  obtained  at  any  hardware  8toi*e. 

As  the  housekeeper  is  sometimes  hurried  in  preparing  a  dish, 
it  will  Bave  time  and  trouble  for  her  to  keep  on  hand  a  bottle 
of  meat-flavoring  compounded  of  the  following  ingredients. 

2  chopped  onions. 

3  pods  of  red  pepper  (chopped). 
2  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  celery  seed. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  mustard. 

1  teaspoonful  turmeric. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Put  all  in  a  quart  bottle  and  fill  it  up  with  cider  vinegar.  A 
tablespoonful  of  this  mixed  in  a  stew,  steak,  or  gravy,  will  im- 
part not  only  a  fine  flavor,  but  a  rich  color.  Kee[>ing  this  mixt- 
ure on  hand  will  obviate  the  necessity  of  the  housekeeper  look- 
ing through  various  spice  boxes  and  packages  to  get  together 
the  requisite  ingredients  for  flavoring,  and  will  thus  save  her 
time  and  trouble. 

How  TO  Select  Meats. 

Good  and  wholesome  meat  should  be  neither  of  a  pale  rosy  or 
pink  color,  nor  of  a  deep  purple.  The  first  denotes  the  diseased 
condition,  the  last  proves  the  animal  has  died  a  natural  death. 
Grood  meat  has  more  of  a  marble  look,  in  consequence  of  the 
branching  of  the  veins  which  surround  the  adipose  cells.  The 
fat,  especially  of  the  inner  organs,  is  always  firm  and  suety  and 
never  moist,  while  in  general  the  fat  from  diseased  cattle  is 
flabby  and  watery  and  more  often  resembles  jelly  or  boiled 
])archment.  Wholesome  meat  will  always  show  itself  firm  and 
elastic  to  the  touch,  and  exibit  no  dampness,  while  bad  meai 
will  appear  soft  and  moist,  in  fact,  often  more  wet,  so  that  the 
liquid   Bubstance  runs  out  of  the  blood  when  pressed  hari. 


068ERVATI0NB  ON  POBK,   OUBINO  BAOON,  IfO.         117 

€k>od  meat  has  very  little  smell  and  diffuses  a  certain  medicinal 
odor.  This  can  be  distinctly  proved  by  cutting  the  meat  through 
with  a  knife  and  smelling  the  blade  or  pouring  water  over  it. 
XiRstly,  bad  meat  has  the  pecnliaiity  that  it  shrinks  considera- 
bly in  the  boiling,  wliolesome  meat  rather  swells  and  does  not 
lose  an  ounce  in  weight. 

Observations  on  Pork,  Curing  Bacon,  etc. 

Hogs  weighing  from  150  to  200  pounds  are  the  most  suitable 
size  for  family  use.  They  should  not  exceed  twelve  months  in 
age,  as  they  are  much  more  tender  from  being  young.  They 
should  be  well  kept  and  should  be  corn-fed  several  weeks  before 
being  killed.  After  being  properly  dressed,  they  should  hang 
long  enough  to  get  rid  of  the  animal  heat.  When  they  are 
ready  to  be  cut  up,  tliey  should  be  divided  into  nine  principal 
parts,  two  hams,  two  shoulders,  two  middlings,  the  head  or  face, 
jowl  and  chine.  The  hog  is  laid  on  its  back  to  be  cut  up.  The 
head  is  cut  off  just  below  the  eara,  then  it  is  split  down  on  each 
side  of  die  backbone,  which  is  the  chine.  This  is  divided  into 
three  pieces,  the  upper  portion  being  a  choice  2)iece  to  be  eaten 
cold.  The  fat  portion  may  be  cut  off  to  make  lard.  Each  half 
should  then  first  have  the  leaf  fat  taken  out,  which  is  done  by 
cutting  the  thin  skin  between  it  and  the  ribs,  when  it  is  easily 
pulled  out.  Just  iinder  this,  the  next  thing  to  be  removed  is 
the  mousepiece  or  tenderloin,  lying  along  the  edge,  from  which 
the  backbone  was  removed,  commencing  at  the  point  of  the 
ham.  This  is  considered  the  most  delicate  part  and  is  used  to 
make  the  nicest  sausage.  Just  under  this  tenderloin  arc  some 
short  ribs  about  three  inches  long,  running  up  from  the  point  of 
the  ham  whicli  are  known  as  the  griskin.  This  is  removed  by  a 
shaqi  knife  being  run  under  it,  taking  care  to  cut  it  smooth  and 
not  too  thick.     When  broiled,  it  is  as  nice  as  a  partridge. 

The  ribs  are  next  taken  out  of  the  shoulder  and  middling, 
though  some  poraons  prefer  leaving  them  in  the  middling.  In 
this  case  seven  should  be  taken  from  the  shoulder,  by  a  sliar|- 


118    OBSBSTATIONB  ON  POBK,  CUBINO  BAOv^K,  BTO. 

knife  cutting  close  to  the  ribs,  which  make  a  delicious  broiL 
Then  cut  off  the  ham  as  near  the  bone  as  possible,  in  a  half 
circle.  The  shoulder  is  then  cut  square  across  just  behind  the 
leg.  The  feet  are  then  chopped  off  with  a  sharp  axe  or  cleaver. 
From  the  shoulder,  they  should  be  cut  off  leaving  a  stump  of 
about  two  inches.  From  the  ham,  they  should  be  cut  off  at  the 
joint,  as  smoothly  as  possible,  and  then  you  may  proceed  to  salt 
the  meat. 

In  order  to  impart  redness  to  the  hams,  rub  on  each  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pulverized  saltpetre  before  salting.  If  the  weather 
is  very  cold,  varro  the  salt  before  applying  it.  First  rub  the 
skin  side  well  with  salt  and  then  the  fleshy  side,  using  for  the 
purpose  a  shoe-sole  or  leather  glove.  No  more  salt  should  be 
used  than  a  sufficiency  to  preserve  the  meat,  as  an  excess  hard- 
ens the  meat.  A  bushel  of  salt  is  sufficient  for  a  thousand 
pounds  of  meat.  For  the  chine  and  ribs  a  very  light  sprinkling 
of  salt  will  suffice. 

The  meat  as  salted  shoiild  be  packed  with  the  skin  side  down, 
where  it  should  remain  from  four  to  six  weeks,  according  to  the 
weather.  If  the  weather  is  mild,  four  weeks  will  answer. 
Should  the  weather  be  veiy  cold  and  the  pork  in  an  exposed 
place,  it  will  freeze,  and  the  salt,  failing  to  penetrate  the  meat, 
will  be  apt  to  injure  it. 

After  it  has  taken  salt  sufficiently,  the  old  Virginia  mode  is 
to  break  the  bulk,  shake  off  the  salt,  rub  the  joint  pieces  (hams 
and  shoulders)  with  good,  green- wood  ashes  (hickory  preferred). 
Then  rebulk  it  and  let  it  remain  two  weeks  longer,  when  it 
should  be  hung  up  with  the  joints  down  and  the  other  pieces 
may  be  hung  up  for  smoking  at  the  same  time.  It  is  not  neces- 
sary that  the  smoke-hoiise  should  be  very  tight,  but  it  is  import 
tant  that  the  pork  should  not  be  very  close  to  the  fire. 

A  smothered  fire  made  of  small  oillets  of  wood  or  chips  (hick- 
ory preferred),  or  of  corn  cobs,  should  be  made  up  three  times 
a  day  till  the  middle  of  March  or  first  of  April,  when  the  joint 
pieces  should  be  taken  down  and  packed  in  hickory  or  othei 


FORK  8'rSAE: — aPABB-BIBS.  119 

graen-wood  ashes,  as  in  salt,  where  they  will  remain  all  the  snm- 
mer  without  danger  of  bugs  interfering  with  them. 

This  recipe  has  been  obtained  from  an  ohi  Virginia  family, 
fiimoas  for  their  skill  in  this  department  of  housekeeping. 
This  mode  of  curing  makes  the  best  bacon  in  the  world,  far 
superior  to  what  are  generally  called  Virginia  cured  hams. 

Shoat  (which  I  must  explain  to  the  uninitiated  is  a  term  ap- 
plied in  the  South  to  a  young  pig  past  the  age  when  it  may  be 
cooked  whole)  should  be  kept  up  and  fattened  on  buttermilk, 
several  weeks  befora  being  killed,  as  this  makes  the  flesh  ex- 
tremely delicate.  It  is  best  killed  when  between  two  and  three 
months  old.  It  should  then  be  divided  into  four  quai*ters.  It 
is  more  delicate  and  wholesome  eaten  cold. 

Pork  Steak. 

Remove  the  skin,  beat  without  breaking  into  holes  ;  scald 
with  boiling  water,  wipe  dry  and  broil.  When  brown  lay  in  a 
hot  dish.  Sprinkle  over  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sage,  chopped 
onion,  and  pai*sley ;  then  butter  profusely. 

Grate  over  all  hard  biscuit  or  crackei*s  that  have  been  browned 
and  serve. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

Spare-ribs. 

Pork  chop  and  pork  cutlet  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way, 
omitting  the  onion  if  not  liked. — Mm   T, 

Pork  Spare-rib. 

With  stuffing  of  sage  and  onions,  roasted  spare-rib,  done 
over  the  potatoes,  aflbrds  a  good  substitute  for  goose. 

Spare  RIBS. 

Always  parboil  spare-ribs  :  then  broil  with  pepper  and  salt  * 
cut  in  pieces  three  or  four  bones  each. — Mrs,  W. 

SpofteSibs. 
Out  tliom  into  pieces  of  two  or  three  ribs  each ;  put  them 


120       TO  COOK  8PABE-BIB8  AND  OBISKEN  OR  8I10RT  BIBS. 

into  a  coYered  stewpan  and  boil  or  stew  until  perfectly  dona 
Just  before  you  take  them  out,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley. 

Put  on  the  cover  and  simmer  until  well  seasoned. 

Take  them  out  of  the  pan,  drain  and  dry  them.  For  one 
moment  let  them  scorch  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bed  of  hot  coals ; 
lay  on  a  hot  dish ;  butter  each  one ;  pepper  added ;  sifb  over 
browned  cracker  and  serve. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

To  Cook  Spare-ribs  and  Griskin  or  Short-ribs. 

Put  them  on  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  boil  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minufces.  Gash  them  with  a  knife ;  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  put  them  on  a  hot  gridiron  as  near  the  fire  as  possi- 
ble ;  broil  quickly,  but  not  too  brown,  fliive  some  butter 
melted  and  pour  over  the  meat  and  shut  it  up  in  the  dish. 
These  are  good  for  breakfast. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

To  Cook  Backbone  or  Chine. 

Cut  the  chine  in  three  pieces ;  the  large  end  must  be  about 
a  foot  long,  the  remainder  cut  in  half.  Put  it  in  a  pot  of 
water  and  boil  for  two  hours ;  then  put  it  in  a  pan,  baste  and 
set  it  in  the  stove  to  brown.  Peel  some  Irish  potatoes  and  put 
them  in  the  pot ;  boil  till  done,  mash  them  up  and  season  with 
pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  some  of  the  gravy  dripping  out  of  the 
chine  while  baking ;  spread  them  in  the  dish,  then  lay  the  cliinc 
on  top.  The  largest  piece  is  genei*al]y  put  aside  to  eat  cold, 
and  is  very  nice.  Turnips  are  good,  cooked  in  the  same  wayoas 
potatoes,  with  the  chine. 

The  chine  and  ham  of  a  hog  are  nice,  corned  like  beef. — Mrs, 

P.  W. 

Backbone  Pie. 

Take  the  smallest  end  of  the  backbone,  cut  in  pieces  two  or 
three  inches  long ;  put  in  water  and  boil  until  done.  Make 
nice  rich  pastry  as  for  chicken  pie ;  line  the  sides  of  a  baking 
dish  with  the  pastry,  put  in  the  bones,  adding  some  wat(ir  ui 


TO   OOOK  A  HAM  OF  FOBK — ^K0A8T  CHIKK.  121 

wliich  thej  were  boiled ;  also  salt,  butter,  and  pepper  to  taste, 
with  bits  of  pastry. 

Cover  top  of  bakiug-dish  with  pastry ;  put  in  stove  and 
brown  nicely. — Mrs,  G,  B, 

To  Cook  a  Ham  of  Pork. 

Wash  off  the  salt  and  put  it  in  a  pot  of  water ;  boil  from 
four  to  six  hours,  according  to  size.  Do  not  take  off  the  skin, 
as  it  preserves  the  juice  and  is  much  better  cold.  It  is  also 
nice  to  slice  and  broil  with  pepper  and  butter  over  it. — Mrs. 
P.  W. 

Leo  of  Pork  Stuffed. 

Make  deep  incisions  in  the  meat  parallel  to  the  bone,  trim  it 
80  as  to  leave  the  skin  longer  than  the  flesh ;  then  boil  some  pota- 
toes, and  when  they  are  donoi  mash  them  with  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  an  onion  finely  chopped,  and  a 
little  rubbed  sage. 

With  this  dre.ssing  fill  the  incisions,  draw  the  skin  down  and 
skewer  it  over  to  keep  the  dressing  from  falling  out.  Season 
the  outside  of  the  meat  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  sage. 

Roast  it  slowly ;  when  done,  pour  the  gravy  in  a  pan,  skim 
off  the  fat  and  add  some  browned  flour  wet  iu  a  little  cold 
water,  and  boil  up  once. 

Serve  with  apple  or  cranberry  sauce. — Mrs.  A,  M.  D, 

To  Dress  Chine. 

Rub  the  large  end  with  salt  and  saltpetre,  and  it  will  keep 
some  time,  or  you  may  boil  it  fresh.  Cut  the  bones  of  the 
other  end  apart,  sprinkle  with  flour  and  a  little  salt :  add  one 
teacup  of  water,  and  stew. 

It  will  make  two  large  dishes. — Mrs,  W. 

Roast  Chine. 

Chine  should  always  be  parboiled  and  stewed  before  roasting, 
to  take  away  the  gross  taste  which  the  melted  fat  frying  from 

n 


182  FOBK  BOTAIi— SAUaiQB  MEAT. 

it  giyeB.  After  this  lay  in  the  pan  with  one  pint  water  in 
which  it  was  boiled,  from  which  all  the  fat  has  been  skimmeu. 
Put  in  this  several  whole  leaves  of  sage,  to  be  removed  befoi'e 
serving — just  to  get  the  flavor ;  minced  onion,  and  parsley. 

Baste  and  brown  quickly  that  it  may  not  dry. 

This  is  onlv  stewed  chine  browned. — Mrs,  &  T, 

Pork  Royal. 

Take  a  piece  of  shoulder  of  fresh  pork,  fill  with  grated  bread 

and  the  crust  soaked,  pepper,  salt,  onion,  sage  and  thyme :  a 

bit  of  butter  and  lard.     Place  in  a  pan  with  some  water ;  when 

about  half  done,  place  around  it  some  large  apples ;  when  done, 

place  your  pork  on  a  dish,  with  the  apples  round  it ;  put  flour 

and  water  on  your  pan,  flour  browned,  some  thyme  and  sage ; 

boO,  strain  through  a  very  small  colander  over  your  pork  and 

apples. 

Seasonimq  foh  Sausage. 

18  pounds  meat. 

9  pounds  back  fat. 

2  ounces  sage. 

4  ounces  black  pepper. 
12  ounces  salt.  — Mrs,  t/I  /^ 

Excellent  Recipe  for  Sausage. 

12  pounds  of  the  lean  of  the  chine. 
6  pounds     "    "  fat. 
6  tablespoonfuls  salt. 
6  "  sage. 

2  "  thyme. 
6             "             pepper. 

3  *'  sweet  marjoram. 
Mix  well  together. — Mrs.  8,  M, 

Sausage  Meat. 

26  pounds  lean  pieces  cut  from  the  shoulder  and  tend«r> 
loin. 


0W1EBTBBBA.D  OF   UOQ SOUBS  0HSB8B.  128 

15  pounds  fat  from  the  back  of  the  chine. 
1  pound  salt ;  a  half  pound  of  bLick  pepper. 
4  ounces  allspice. 
1  ounce  sage. 
Cut  the  fat  in  small  pieces  and  then  chop  it ;  chop  the  lean 
very  fine :  mix  all  together,  kneading  in  the  seasoning.     Press 
it  down  in  small  pots  and  pour  melted  lard  over  the  top. — Mr», 

j'.n. 

Sweetbread  of  Hoo. 

This  nice  morsel  is  between  the  maw  and  ruffle  piece  inside 
of  the  hog.  Put  them  in  soak  for  a  day ;  parboil  them  and 
then  gash  them  and  stew  them  in  pepper,  butter,  one  teacup  of 
milk  and  a  little  vinegar. 

Or  they  are  very  nice  fried  or  broiled. — Mr$.  P.  W. 

Souse  Cheese. 

Lay  the  meat  in  cold  water  as  cut  from  the  hog.  Let  it  stand 
three  or  four  days,  shifting  the  water  each  day.  Scrape  it  and 
let  it  stand  a  day  or  two  longer,changing  the  water  often,  and  if 
it  should  turn  warm,  i)our  a  little  salt  in  the  water.  The  often- 
er  it  is  scraped,  the  whiter  will  be  the  souse.  Boil  in  plenty 
of  water  to  cover  it,  replenishing  when  needed.  When  tender 
enough,  put  it  in  milk-warm  water,  and  when  cold  in  salt  water. 
Boil  the  head  until  the  bones  will  almost  fall  out.  Clean  one 
dozen  or  more  ears  and  boil  also ;  while  hot,  chop  veiy  fine,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Put  in  a  mold  or  bowl  with  a  weight  on  top.  The  feet  may 
be  soused  whole,  or  cut  up  with  the  head  and  ears ;  but  it  is 
not  so  nice.  Clean  them  by  dipping  in  boiling  water  and  scrap- 
ing ;  do  not  hold  them  to  the  fire  to  singe  off  the  hair.  One 
head  and  one  dozen  ears  will  make  a  good-sized  cheese. — 
Mr9,  W. 

To  Make  Souse  from  Hoq's  Feet. 

As  soon  as  the  hog  is  cleaned,  cut  off  the  feet  and  throw  them 


124      TO   CURE  LARD ^YIROINIA  MODE   OF  CURINO   HAMS. 

in  a  tub  of  cold  water  with  a  handful  of  salt ;  let  them  remain 
covered  in  water  until  you  are  ready  to  clean  them,  which  should 
be  done  as  soon  as  possible,  as  they  will  be  much  whiter.  To 
get  the  hoof  off,  put  the  feet  in  hot  water  (not  above  the  hoof) ; 
as  soon  as  they  get  hot  enough,  slip  a  knife  between  the  foot 
and  hoof,  and  slip  it  off;  then  scrape  the  foot  nicely,  and  throw 
into  a  tub  of  clear  water ;  do  this  for  several  days.  Wlien  you 
have  scraped  and  changed  the  water  for  a  week,  then  wash  them 
clean  and  put  them  on  to  boil.  First  put  them  in  a  clean  pot 
with  a  thin  gruel  made  of  com  meal ;  boil  until  half  done. 
Wash  them  off,  and  put  on  in  clear  hot  water,  and  boil  till  done, 
then  take  them  up  and  throw  them  into  a  firkin  of  clean  salt 
and  water  ;  keep  clobely  covered  to  prevent  them  fix>m  molding. 
They  are  now  ready  to  fry,  which  should  be  done  by  splitting 
the  foot  in  half  and  fried  in  egg  batter. — Mr8,  P,  W. 

To  Cure  Lard. 

As  soon  as  it  is  taken  from  the  hog,  cut  in  small  pieces,  wash 
clean,  press  out  the  water,  and  put  in  the  pot  to  boil,  with  one 
gallon  of  water  to  a  vessel  holding  four  gallons.  Boil  briskly 
until  nearly  done,  or  until  the  cracklins  begin  to  brown,  then 
cook  slowly  to  prevent  burning.  The  cracklins  should  be  of  a 
light  brown  and  crisp,  and  will  sink  to  the  bottom  when  done. 
This  is  Leaf  Lard. 

The  fat  off  of  the  backbone  is  also  very  nice,  done  in  the  same 
way,  and  does  not  require  soaking,  unless  bloody.  The  fat  from 
the  entrails  can  also  be  made  into  nice  lard  by  soaking  for  a  day 
or  two  in  fresh  water,  changing  it  fniquently,  and  throwing  a 
liandful  of  salt  in  the  tub  of  water  to  draw  out  the  blood  and 
impurities.  When  resuiy  to  render,  wash  in  warm  water  twice 
And  boil  in  more  water  than  you  do  for  leaf  lard.  The  crack* 
lins  will  not  become  crisp,  but  remain  soft,  and  will  sink  to 
the  bottom ;  they  are  used  for  making  soap. 

Virginia  Mode  of  Curikq  Hams. 
Put  one  teaspoonful  saltpetre  on  the  fleshy  side  of  each  ham. 


TO  CUBE  BAOON — FOB  OUBIKG  HAMS.        125 

Salt  not  too  heavily  for  five  weeks ;  if  the  weather  is  freezing 
cold,  six  weeks ;  then  brush  the  hams  well,  and  i*ub  them  with 
hickory  ashes  ;  let  them  lie  for  one  week,  then  hang  and  smoke 
them  for  six  weeks  with  green  hickory  chips.  After  brushing, 
pack  them  in  hickory  ashes  in  a  bulk. — Mrs.  P,  C.  M, 

To  Cube  Bacon. 

Pack  the  meat  in  salt  and  allow  it  to  remain  five  weeks. 
Then  take  the  hams  up,  wash  off,  and  wipe  dry.  Have  some 
sacks  made  of  about  seven-eighths  shirting,  large  enough  to  hold 
the  hams  and  tie  above  the  hock.  Make  a  pot  of  sizing  of 
eqnal  portions  of  fiour  and  com  meal,  boil  until  thick,  and  dip 
each  sack  until  the  outside  is  well  coated  with  sizing.  Put 
the  hams  in  bags,  and  tie  tight  with  a  strong  twine  and  hang  by 
the  same  in  the  smoke-house. 

Curing  Bacon. 

One  peck  salt  to  five  hundred  pounds  pork.  To  five  gallons 
water: 

4  pounds  salt. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pint  molasses. 

1  teaspoonful  saltpetre. 
Mix,  and  after  sprinkling  the  fleshy  side  of  the  ham  with  thn 
Kalt,  pack  in  a  tight  barrel.     Hams  first,  then  shoulders,  mid- 
dlings.    Pour  over  the  brine ;  leave  the  meat  in  briuo  from  four 
to  seven  weeks. — Mtb.  Dr.  cTI 

Fob  Curing  Hams. 
For  five  hundred  pounds  hams. 

1  peck  and  1^  gallons  fine  Liverpool  salt. 

\\  pounds  saltpetre. 

1  quart  hickory  ashes  well  sifteti. 

1  quart  molasses. 


196  AK  niPBOTBlCBNT  TO  HAMB — TO  BOIL  HAH. 

2  teaoups  cayenne  pepper. 
1  teacup  black  pepper. 
Mix  these  ingredients  well  together  in  a  large  tab,  rub  it 
into  each  ham  with  a  brick,  or  something  rough  to  get  it  in 
well.  Pack  in  a  tighti  clean  tub  and  weigh  down.  Let  the 
hums  remain  six  weeks ;  then  take  them  out  and  rub  each  one 
on  the  fleshy  side  with  one  tablespoonful  black  pepper  to  avoid 
skippers.  Hang  in  ihe  meat  house,  and  smoke  with  green 
hickoiy  for  from  ten  to  twelve  hours  a  day  for  six  weeks,  not 
suffering  the  wood  to  blaze.  On  the  Ist  of  April,  take  them 
down  and  pack  in  any  coal  ashes  or  pine  ashes  well  slaked. 
Strong  ashes  will  rot  into  the  meat. — 3fra.  JR.  M. 

Ak  Improvement  to  Hams. 

Sometimes  very  good  bacon  is  found  to  be  of  a  bad  color 
when  cooked.  This  may  be  remedied  by  keeping  it  in  ashes 
(hickory  is  best)  for  a  few  weeks  before  using.  Must  then  be 
hung  up,  with  ashes  adhering,  until  needed.  This  also  prevents 
skippers. — Mr9.  S.  T. 

To  Boil  a  Ham  Weighing  Ten  Pounds. 

Let  it  soak  for  twenty-four  houra,  changing  the  water  two  or 
three  tames.  Boil  it  slowly  eight  or  ten  hours :  when  done,  put 
it  into  a  dish,  as  nearly  as  possible  the  shape  of  a  ham,  taking 
care  first  to  take  out  the  bone — turn  the  rind  down.  When 
cold,  turn  it  out  into  a  large  dish,  garnish  with  jelly  and  orna- 
mental paper.  Serve  with  the  rind  on.  To  be  eaten  cold. — 
Mrs.  W.  C.  R. 

To  Boil  Ham. 

Put  in  the  water  one  pint  vinegar,  a  bay  leaf,  a  little  thyme, 
and  parsley. 

Boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  if  it  weighs  ten  pounds;  then 
bake.  Soak  all  hams  twenty-four  hours  before  cooking.—. 
Mra.  M. 


TO   BOIL   HAM — BAKED   HAM   OB  TONGUE.  127 

To  If  oil  Hd/m, 

The  day  before  you  wish  to  boil  a  ham,  scrape,  wash  and 
wipe  it  di-y,  and  ]iut  it  in  the  sun.  At  night  put  it  into  water 
and  soak  till  next  morning.  Then  lay  it  with  the  skin  down 
in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  for  five  hours.  If  the 
ham  is  large,  boil  six  liours.  When  pei*fectly  done  and  tender, 
set  the  boiler  aside,  with  the  ham  and  liquor  undisturbed,  until 
cold.  Then  take  off  the  skin,  sprinkle  black  pepper  over 
thickly,  and  sift  over  ci*ackers  first  browned  and  pounded ;  for 
s|>ecial  occasions,  place  at  equal  distances  over  the  ham,  scraped 
hoi-seradish  in  lozenge  shape,  and  edged  with  curled  parsley. 
This  mode  keeps  the  ham  juicy. — Mrs.  S,  T. 

Baked  Ham. 

First  of  all,  soak  an  old  ham  overnight,  having  first  washed 
and  scraped  it.  Next  morning  put  in  a  boiler  of  milk-warm 
water  with  the  skin  side  down.  Boil  slowly  for  four  or  five 
hours,  according  to  size,  and  if  a  very  large  ham,  six  houi*s. 
When  done,  set  aside,  the  boiler  with  the  ham  and  liquor  in  it, 
to  remain  until  cold ;  when  the  skin  must  be  taken  off,  and  it 
must  be  trimmed  of  a  nice  shape.  Spiinkle  over  two  tablespoon- 
fills  black  pepper.  Lay  the  ham  on  a  grating  or  twist  in  the 
baking-pan,  in  which  pour  a  pint  of  water,  and  set  it  in  a  hot 
oven.  This  mode  prevents  the  frying  so  disagreeable  to  the 
taste.  After  the  ham  is  heated  through,  and  the  pepper  strikes 
in,  sift  over  cracker ;  return  to  the  oven  and  brown,  then  dec- 
orate with  scrajied  horseradish  and  parsley,  and  serve.  —MrB, 
&  T. 

Baked  Ham  or  Tongues. 

Boil  the  ham  and  grate  some  powdered  cracker  thickly  over 
it ;  first  rubbing  it  ¥dth  beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Bake  with  butter. 
Lay  slices  of  currant  jelly  around  the  tongue,  and  garnish  the 
ham  with  parsley. — Mrs.  R, 


128  BAKRD  HAM — TO  STUFF  FSESH   O0BED   HAM. 

Baked  Sam, 

Most  persons  boil  ham,  but  it  is  much  better  if  baked  prop- 
erly. Soak  it  for  an  hour  in  clean  water  and  wipe  dry ;  next 
spread  it  all  over  with  a  thin  batter,  put  it  into  a  deep  dish 
Mdth  sticks  under  it  to  keep  it  out  of  the  gravy.  When  it  is 
fully  done,  take  off  the  skin  and  batter  crusted  upon  the  flesh 
side  and  set  it  away  to  cool. — Mrs,  S.  J".  B. 

Stuffed  and  Baked  Hah. 

After  your  ham  is  boiled,  take  the  skin  off.  Take  pepper,  all- 
spice, cloves  and  mace,  well  pounded;  add  a  little  bread 
crumbs,  and  a  little  brown  sugar ;  mix  with  a  little  butter  and 
water. 

Gash  your  ham  and  take  out  plugs  ;  fill  in  with  the  mixture. 
Rub  the  ham  with  an  egg  beaten,  and  grate  on  bread  crumbs 
and  white  sugar. 

Put  in  the  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  D,  B. 

To  Stuff  Fresh  Cured  Hah. 

Boil  the  ham. 

Take  one-half  pound  grated  cracker  or  bread. 

^  pound  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  spice. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

3  spoonfuls  sugar. 

Celery-seed  or  celery. 

6  eggs,  beaten  light. 

1  spoonful  mustard. 
Mix  all  well  together  and  moisten  with  cream,  if  too  stiff. 
Whilst  the  ham  is  hot,  make  holes  to  the  bone  and  fill  with  this 
mixture.     Put  in  the  stove  to  brown. 


snobd  hah — baoon  ard  gkben8.  199 

Spioed  Ham. 

Salt  the  hams  for  two  days ;  put  them  in  a  keg  and  for  each 

ham  add : 

i  cup  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  spice. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

A  pinch  of  saltpetre. 

Let  them  stand  four  days,  turning  each  day,  then  hang  tliem 

up. — Jtfrs.  D,  H, 

Broiled  Ham. 

To  have  this  dish  in  a  perfection,  ham  must  first  be  soaked, 
then  boiled  nearly  done,  and  set  aside  to  take  slices  from,  as 
wanted.  Cut  rather  thin,  lay  on  a  gridiron  over  hot  coals ; 
when  hot  through,  lay  on  a  dish,  and  pepper  well.  Pour  over 
fresh  butter  melted,  and  serve.  If  a  raw  ham  is  used,  the 
slices  must  be  cut  thicker,  dropped  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  for 
a  few  minutes,  then  broiled  as  above. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Fried  Ham. 

The  slices  are  always  taken  from  a  raw  ham,  but  are  most 

delicate  when  first  simmered  a  short  time :  five  minutes  in  a 

stewpan,  dried  with  a  clean  cloth  and  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan, 

first  removing  the   skin.     The   pan   must  be   hot   enough   to 

scorch   and  brown  both  ham  and  gravy   quickly.       Lay   the 

slices  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  into  the  gravy  half  a  teacup  new 

milk,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley ;  boil  up  and  serve. — Mrs. 

S.  T, 

Shoulder  of  Bacon. 

This  piece  is  not  used  until  cured  or  smoked,  it  is  then 
boiled  with  cabbage  or  salad,  as  you  would  the  middling.  It  is 
inferior  to  the  ham  or  middling. — Mrs.  P,  W. 

Bacon  and  Greens. 

The  middling  is  generally  used  for  this  purpose  :  cut  a  piece 
about  a  foot  square,  boil  three  hours. 


130      FRIED   BACON — ^PIOKLSD  FORK   EQUAL  TO  FBB8H. 

T(ike  a  good  head  of  oabbagOi  cut,  quarter,  and  waah  clean ; 
press  the  water  out  as  dry  as  you  can.  Boil  them  one  or  two 
horn's  with  half  a  pod  of  red  pepper ;  put  them  on  a  dish  and 
the  middling  on  top.  You  can  fry  the  cabbage  next  day,  and 
make  a  savory  dish,  but  it  does  not  suit  dyspoptics.  The  thin 
part  of  the  middling  is  used  for  frying,  and  is  called  ''  breakfast 
bacon.**— Jtf^*.  P.   W. 

Fried  Bacox. 

Dip  the  ham  or  slices  of  middling  in  bread  crumbs.  Put  in 
a  frying-pan  with  chopped  parsley  and  pepper.  Just  befoi^ 
taking  off  the  fire,  pour  to  the  gravy  a  cup  of  cream. — 
Mrs.  W, 

Jowl  and  Turnip  Salad. 

This  is  an  old  Virginia  dish,  and  much  used  in  the  spi-ing  of 
the  year. 

The  jowl,  which  must  have  been  well  smoked,  must  be  washed 
clean,  and  boiled  for  three  hours.  Put  in  the  salad,  and  boil 
half  an  hour ;  if  you  boil  too  long,  it  will  turn  yellow.  It  is 
also  good  broiled  for  breakfast  with  pepper  and  butter  over  it. 

The  jaw-bone  should  be  removed  befora  sending  to  the  table ; 
this  is  easily  done  by  running  a  knife  around  the  lip  and  under 
the  tongue.  The  jowl  and  salad  should  always  be  served  with 
fresh  poached  eg^. — Mrs.  P,  TPI 

Pickled  Pork  Equal  to  Fresh. 

Let  the  meat  cool  thoroughly ;  cut  into  pieces  four  to  six 
inches  wide,  weigh  them  and  pack  them  as  tight  as  possible  in 
a  barrel,  salting  very  slightly.  Cover  the  meat  with  biine  made 
as  strong  as  possible.  Pour  off  a  gallon  of  brine  and  mix  with 
it  one  tablespoonful  saltpetre  for  every  100  pounds  meat  and 
return  it  to  the  barrel.  Let  it  stand  one  month,  then  take  out 
the  meat,  let  it  drain  twelve  hours.  Put  the  brine  in  an  iron 
kettle,  and  one  quart  treacle  or  two  pounds  sugar,  and  boD 


HOW  TO  OOOK  SALT  POBK — SPOTTED  TONGUE  OE  HAML   181 

oiktil  perfecUj  clear.  When  it  is  cold,  return  the  meat  to  ihe 
barrel  and  pour  on  the  brine.  Weight  it  down  and  keep  ii 
covered  dose,  and  you  will  have  the  sweetest  meat  you  ever 
tasted. 

How  TO  Cook  Salt  Pork. 

Many  people  do  not  relish  salt  pork  fried,  but  it  is  quite 
good  to  soak  it  in  milk  two  or  three  houi*s,  then  roll  in  Indian 
meal  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  This  makes  a  good  dish  yriijh. 
mashed  turnips,  or  raw  onions  cut  in  vinegar ;  another  way  is 
to  soak  it  over  night  in  skimmed  milk  and  bake  like  fresh 
pork ;  it  is  almost  as  good  as  fresh  roast  pork. 

Hah  Toast. 

Mince  about  one  pint  boiled  loan  ham. 

Add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls 
cream,  and  a  little  cayenne  pep|>er. 

Stir  all  on  the  6re  until  it  thickens,  and  spread  on  hot  toast 
with  the  crust  cut  off. — Mrs.  J,  T.  B. 

Ham  Toast. 

Chop  very  fine  two  spoonfuls  of  lean  ham  that  has  been 
cooked  ;   take  two  spoonfuls  veal  gravy  ;  a  few  bread  crumbs. 

Put  all  together  in  a  stewpan  and  heat  it.  Have  ready  a 
toast  buttered,  spread  the  above  upon  it,  strew  a  few  bi*ead 
crumbs  over  it  and  brown  it  before  the  fire. — Mrs,  8, 

Ham  Relish. 

Cut  a  slice  of  dressed  ham,  season  it  highly  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  broil  it  brown ;  then  spread  mustard  over  it^  squeeze 
on  it  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  serve  quickly. 

PoTTB©  Tongue  or  Ham. 

Remove  all  skin,  gristle,  and  outside  parts  from  one  pound 
of  the  lean  of  cold  boiled  tongue  or  ham. 
Pound  it  in  a  mortar  to  a  smooth  paste  with  either  one- 


132  TO  BOAST  8HCAT — TO  BABBAOCTB  BHOAT. 

quarter  pound  of  the  fat,  or  with  two  ounces  fresh  butter , 
Season  with  cayenne,  pounded  mace  and  allspice. 

Press  it  well  into  pots  and  cover  with  clarified  butter  or  fat. 

To  Roast  Shoat. 

The  hind-quarter  is  considered  best.  Cut  off  the  foot,  leav- 
ing the  hock  quite  short.  Wash  well  and  put  into  boiling 
water ;  simmer  until  done,  adding  salt  and  pepper  just  before 
lifting  firom  the  kettle  ;  salt  put  in  sooner  hardens  and  toughens. 
Place  the  meat  in  a  baking-pan  and  score  across,  in  tlie  direction 
in  which  it  is  to  be  carved.  Skim  several  ladlefuls  from  the 
top  of  the  kettle  and  pour  over ;  after  this  has  dried  off, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  an  egg  beaten 
stiff,  sift  over  powdered  ci-acker,  and  set  to  brown.  Lay  around 
sweet  potatoes  first  parboiled,  then  cut  in  thick  slices.  Serve 
with  minced  parsley  and  thyme,  both  on  the  meat  and  in  the 
gravy. — Mrs,  S,  T. 

To  Roast  a  Fore  Quarter  of  Shoat. 

Put  it  on  in  hot  water,  boil  for  half  an  hour ;  take  it  out, 
put  in  a  pan,  gash  it  across  with  a  sharp  knife,  in  diamond 
shapes,  grease  it  with  lard  an4  dredge  with  flour,  ])epper  and  a 
little  salt.  Peel  some  good  Irish  potatoes,  lay  them  around  the 
pan  and  set  in  the  stove  to  brown,  basting  frequently.  This 
meat  should  be  cooked  done,  as  it  is  not  good  the  least 
rare.  Grate  some  bread  crumbs  over  it  and  serve. — Mrs, 
P.  TF. 

To  Barbecue  Shoat. 

Lay  the  shoat  in  water  till  ready  for  use ;  if  small,  it  will 
cook  in  an  hour.  Put  in  the  oven  with  two  spoonfuls  of  water, 
a  piece  of  lard,  and  dredge  with  flour.  When  ready  for  use, 
pour  in  half  a  teacup  of  walnut  catsup,  and,  if  not  fat,  a  piece 
of  butter. 


8h0at  jowl — roast  wo.  183 

Shoat  Jowl. 

The  upper  half  of  the  head  is  what  is  generally  used  for 
what  is  called  ^^  The  Pig^s-head  Stew."  Another  nice  dish  may 
be  made  of  the  under  jaw  or  jowl  by  parboiling  until  the  jaw- 
bone <»n  be  taken  out;  always  adding  pepper  and  salt  just 
before  it  is  done.  When  perfectly  tender,  score  across ;  pepper 
and  salt  again,  cover  with  beaten  egg,  then  with  cracker.  Set 
in  a  pan  with  some  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Put 
in  a  hot  oven  and  brown. — Mr8,  S.  T. 

Roast  Pig. 

When  roasted  whole,  a  pig  should  not  be  under  four  nor  over 
six  weeks  old.  In  town,  the  butcher  prepares  for  roasting, 
but  it  is  well  to  know,  in  the  country,  how  this  may  be  done. 
As  8oon  as  the  pig  is  killed,  throw  it  into  a  tub  of  cold  water, 
to  make  it  tender ;  as  soon  as  cold,  take  it  by  the  hind  leg,  and 
plunge  into  scalding,  not  boiling  water  (as  the  last  cooks  the 
skin  so  that  the  hair  can  with  difficulty  be  removed),  shake  it 
about  until  the  hair  can  be  removed  by  the  handful.  When  all 
that  is  possible  has  been  taken  off  in  this  way,  rub  ^m  the 
tail  up  to  the  end  of  the  nose  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Take  off 
the  hooflB,  scrape  and  wash  the  ears  and  nose  until  perfectly 
dean.  The  nicest  way  to  dress  it  is  to  hang  it  by  the  hind 
legs,  open  and  take  out  the  entrails ;  wash  well  with  water, 
with  a  little  soda  dissolved  in  it;  rinse  again  and  again,  and 
leave  hanging  an  hour.  Wrap  in  a  coarse  cloth  wrung  out  Oa 
cold  water  and  lay  on  ice  or  in  a  cool  cellar  until  next  morning, 
when,  if  the  weather  is  warm,  it  must  be  cooked.  It  should 
never  be  used  the  same  day  that  it  is  killed. 

First  prepare  the  stuffing  of  the  liver,  heart  and  haslets  of 
the  pig,  stewed,  seasoned,  and  chopped.  Mix  with  these  an 
equal  quantity  of  boiled  potatoes  mashed ;  add  a  large  spoonful 
of  butter,  with  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  parsley  and  thyme, 
chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt. 

Scald  the  pig  on  the  inside,  dry  ic  and  rub  with  pepper  and 


134      TO   STEW  PIO'S   HKAD  AND  JOWL— SUOAT's  HEAD. 

salt,  fill  and  sew  up.  Bend  the  fore  legs  under  the  body,  the 
hind  logs  forward,  under  the  pig,  and  skewer  to  keep  in  position. 
Place  in  a  large  baking-pan,  pour  over  one  quart  of  boiling 
water.  Have  a  lump  of  fresh  butter  tied  up  in  a  clean  rag ; 
rub  it  all  over  the  pig,  then  spnukle  over  pepper  and  salt,  put- 
ting some  in  the  pan  with  a  bunch  of  herbs ;  inveH  over  it  a 
baking-pan  while  it  simmers,  and  steam  until  entirely  done.  Un- 
derdone pork,  shoat,  or  pig,  is  both  unpalatable  and  unwhole- 
some. Bemove  the  ])an,  rub  over  with  the  butter  and  baste 
oflen.  When  of  a  fine  brown,  cover  the  edges  of  a  large  dish 
with  a  deep  fringe  of  curled  parsley  ;  first  sift  over  the  pig  pow- 
dered cracker,  then  place  it,  kneeling,  in  the  green  bed.  Place 
in  its  mouth  an  oitinge  or  a  red  apple ;  and,  if  eaten  hot,  serve 
with  the  gravy  in  a  tureen  or  sauce-boat.  It  is  much  nicer 
cold ;  served  with  little  mounds  of  grated  horseradish  amongst 
the  parsley. — Mi-s,  JS,  T, 

To  Stew  Pig's  Head  and  Jowl. 

Clean  the  head  and  feet ;  take  out  the  bone  above  the  nose ; 
cut  off  the  eai*s,  clean  them  nicely.  Separate  the  jowl  from  the 
head  ;  take  care  of  tlie  brains  to  add  to  the  stew.  Put  the  head, 
jowl,  feet  and  part  of  the  liver  in  water  sufiicient  to  keep 
well  covered  ;  boil  until  quite  done.  Split  the  feet  to  put  on 
the  dish  ;  hash  the  head  and  liver  ;  but  do  not  spoil  the  jowl, 
which  must  be  put  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  and  surrounded 
with  the  feet  and  hash.  Put  all  of  the  hash,  jowl  and  feet  in 
the  pot  and  season  with  a  cup  of  cream,  a  lump  of  butter,  i>ep- 
per  and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  walnut  catsup,  an  onion  chopped 
fine,  a  stalk  of  celery. 

A  teaspoonful  mustard  improves  it. 

Stew  lialf  an  hour ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  grated  bread. — 
Mrs,  P.  W. 

Shoat's  Head. 

Get  a  shoat's  head  and  clean  it  nicely.  Boil  and  chop  iii 
pieces.     Season  with : 


shoat's  head,  to  btew — ^to  hash  pig's  head.     186 

2  tablespoonfuls  tomato  catsup. 

2  tablespoonfuls  walnut  catsup. 

2  cups  water. 

A  little  flour. 

1  large  spoonful  butter. 

Pepper  aud  salt. 
Have  two  or  thi'ee  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  theui  in  half  and  lay 
on  the  top  of  the  head ;  set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake. 

Yeal  or  mutton  head,  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  but 
are  Dot  so  nice. — Mrs.  R. 

Shoat's  Head,  to  Stew. 

Clean  the  head  and  feet ;  and  ])ut  them  on  to  parboil  with 
the  liver.  Then  split  up  the  head,  through  the  nose,  taking 
out  the  bones.  Cut  the  meat  from  the  feet  and  chop  up  with 
the  liver,  season  this  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Lay  the  head  open  and  fill  it  with  this  mince  and  the  yolks 
of  some  hard-boiled  eggs:  if  this  does  not  till  the  head,  add 
some  grated  bread  crumbs  or  crackers  aud  butter. 

Sew  up  the  head  and  bind  it  with  thread ;  ])ut  it  in  the  pot 
with  the  water  it  has  been  parboiled  in  and  let  it  stew  slowly. 
Take  up  the  head,  and  add  to  the  gnivy  u  lump  of  buttei-,  rolled 
in  flour,  some  browning  and  some  wahmt  catsup.  Puur  this 
over  the  head,  which  should  be  brown.  If  the  shoat  is  not 
very  small,  use  bread  and  butter  insU'ud  of  the  liver. — Mrs.  II. 

To  Hash  Pig's  Head. 

Take  head,  feet,  and  haslet  of  pig ;  boil  them  until  done,  then 
cat  them  up  fine,  taking  out  the  bones. 

Add  black  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sage. 

2  onions  chopped  fine. 

A  little  red  pepp  . . 

I  teaspoonful  mace. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
Put  it  back  in  the  same  vessel  with  liquor  and  cook  till 


186  BBEP  AND  TEAL. 

done,  then  thicken  with  a  little  flour.     Add  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  one  cup  walnut  catsup. — Mrs.  I^r.  c/I 


BEEF  AND  VEAL. 

In  selecting  beef,  see  that  the  flesh  is  firm  and  of  a  clear  red. 
and  the  fat  of  a  yellowish  white.  In  buying  a  quarter  of  beef, 
it  is  better  to  have  it  cut  up  by  the  butcher,  if  you  are  living 
in  town.  The  hind  quarter  is  considered  better,  and  sells  higher 
than  the  fore  quarter.  If  a  roasting  piece  is  desiretl,  the  sirloin 
from  the  hind  quarter  is  usually  preferred.  It  is  not  generally 
known,  however,  that  the  second  cut  of  the  lib-roast  from  the 
fore  quarter  is  the  finest  roast  from  the  beef. 

When  the  bone  has  been  removed,  and  the  meat  skewered  in 
the  shape  of  a  round,  by  the  butcher,  it  is  well  to  I'oast  it  on  a 
spit  before  an  open  fire.  If  the  latter  cannot  be  obtained,  how- 
ever, plunge  the  beef  for  a  moiueut  in  boiling  water,  then  rub 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  Hour,  and  place  on  a 
little  grate  or  trivet  which  will  i^eadily  go  in  a  baking-pan.  In 
this  pour  about  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  beef  was 
scalded.  Place  it  in  a  very  hot  oven,  with  an  inverted  tin 
plate  on  top  of  the  roast.  Kemove  this  ])late  often  to  baste 
the  meat.  When  nearly  done,  which  will  be  in  about  two 
hours  for  a  roast  of  six  pounds,  baste  several  times  and  bake  a 
nice  brown.  Season  the  gravy  with  minced  onion,  pai-sley  and 
thyme,  add  a  little  salt  and  pei)per  and  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
meat  flavoring  of  which  a  receipt  was  given  vx  the  general  direc- 
tions about  meat.  Serve  the  gi'avy  in  a  sauce- tureen,  so  that 
each  person  may  choose  whether  to  eat  the  beef  with  gravy  or 
with  the  juice  that  escapes  from  the  meat  while  it  is  being 
carved.  The  latter  mixed  with  grated  horseradish  is  preferred 
to  gravy  by  some  peraons. 


BBBF  AND  VBAL.  187 

'Etvery  portion  of  the  beef,  from  head  to  feet  is  useful  and 
delicious  when  projierly  prepared. 

The  rounds  and  rump  pieces  are  generally  used  for  beef  d  ^o- 
mode. 

Fresh  beef  from  the  ribs,  boiled  with  turnips,  is  considered 
a  nice  dish  by  some  peraons. 

For  steak,  nothing  is  so  nice  as  tenderloin  or  porter-house 
steak.  I  take  this  occasion  to  protest  against  the  unwholesome 
custom  of  frying  steak  in  lard.  When  inconvenient  to  broil,  it 
may  be  deliciously  cooked  by  being  first  beaten  till  tender,  then 
laid  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  closely  covered,  and  cooked  without 
lard  or  butter,  in  its  own  juices.  When  scorched  brown  on 
both  sides,  but  not  hard,  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  pepper 
and  salt  the  steak,  and  put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter 
on  it.  Press  this  in  with  a  knife  and  fork,  turning  the  steak, 
so  that  each  side  may  absorb  the  butter.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 
The  whole  process  will  not  consume  five  minutes.  Some  per- 
sous  think  it  best  to  add  the  salt  after  the  steak  is  done,  though 
many  good  housekeepers  salt  and  pepper  the  steak  before 
before  broiling  it  Beefsteak  should  be  cooked  rare ;  it  is  a 
great  mistake  to  cook  it  till  hard  and  indigestible. 

The  parts  most  suitable  for  soup  are  the  head,  neck,  shank, 
and  all  the  unsightly  parts.  After  the  bones  are  broken  and 
the  meat  boiled  from  them,  the  liquor  is  used  for  soup,  while 
the  meat,  picked  or  cut  to  pieces,  will  make  an  excellent  stew 
seasoned  with  potatoes,  tui*nips,  sweet  herbs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  the  same  of  meat  flavoring. 

It  is  well  always  to  keep  brine  on  hand  for  coming  beef. 
All  the  parts  not  desirable  for  roast  or  steak  .lad  better  be 
oomed. 

The  beef,  after  being  di-essed,  should  be  hung  up  by  the  hind 

legs,  with  a  smooth,  round  j)iece  of  timber  sufficiently  strong 

to  hold  the  weight,  passed  through  the  legs  at  the  hock,  or  run 

between  the  tendon  and  bone,  with  short  pegs  to  keep  the  legs 

stretched  apart.     Then  with  a  sharp  axe,  standing  behind  the 

12 


Ic38  BEBF — IX)   ROAST  BEEF. 

8iisi>ended  beef,  split  it  down  the  backbone,  severing  it  in  halfl 
Then  pass  a  knife  through  the  ribs,  leaving  two  or  three  short 
ribs  on  the  hind-quarter.  Sever  the  backbone  with  an  axe. 
Then  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  straight  across  the  parallel  line 
with  the  s[)inal  boue,  which  [)iece  must  be  divided  into  two 
pieces,  the  sirloin  and  steak.  Then  take  off  two  rounds,  or 
three,  according  to  the  size  of  the  animal,  cutting  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  cutting  the  bone  with  a  meat  ^w  or  axe,  as  near  the 
joints  as  possible,  which  leaves  the  shin-bone. 

The  fore  quarter  then  is  divided  into  four  pieces,  after  taking 
off  the  shoulder,  which  may  be  divided  into  three  or  more 
pieces. 

The  loin  of  veal  is  the  nicest  part,  and  is  always  roasted. 

The  fillets  and  knuckles  may  be  stewed  aud  roasted. 

The  latter  is  nicest  for  soup. 

The  breast  may  be  stewed  or  roasted. 

The  cutlets  are  nicest  from  the  legs  or  fillet. 

The  head  is  a  dish  for  soup,  stew  or  pie. 

Sweetbreads  from  the  throat  make  a  delicious  dish,  much 
piized  by  epicureans. 

The  feet,  boiled  till  the  bones  drop  out,  make  a  delightful 
dish,  fried  in  batter,  while  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled 
makes  excellent  jelly. 

Veal,  to  be  eaten  in  its  perfection,  should  be  killed  when  from 
four  to  six  weeks  old. 

Beef. 

riie  sirloin,  or  fore  and  middle  ribs,  are  best  for  roasting. 
The  steaks  arc  best  cut  from  the  ribs,  or  the  inner  part  of 
the  sirloin ;  shank,  tail  and  head  make  nice  soup. — 3fr8,  Wi 

To  Roast  Beep. 

Lay  the  meat  on  some  sticks  in  a  dripping-pan  or  other  ves- 
sel, so  that  it  will  not  touch  the  water  which  it  is  necessary  to 
have  in  T.hc<  bottom.     Season  with  salt  and  l)epper,  and  put  in 


BIB   BOAST  OF   BEEF — TO    ROAST   BEEF.  13S 

the  oven  three  or  four  hours  before  it  is  wanted  for  the  table. 
Baste  it  often  with  the  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  renew- 
ing it  as  often  as  it  gets  low.  ThLs  makes  sweet,  juicy  roast 
beef  The  great  secret  of  it  is,  not  to  have  the  meat  touch  tlie 
water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  to  baste  it  often.  Tough, 
unpromising  pieces  of  beef  are  best  cooked  by  steaming  them 
an  hour  and  a  half  or  so  and  then  putting  them  in  the  oven 
and  roasting  as  much  longer. 

Crackers,  first  browned  and  then  pounded,  should  always  be 
kept  to  sift  over  roast  meats :  and  curled  parsley  to  garnish 
with.  Grated  horseradish  is  also  excellent  with  the  roast. 
—Mrs.  S.  T. 

Rib  Roast  of  Beef. 

Crety  from  the  butcher,  a  rib-roast — the  second  cut  is  best — 
and  get  him  to  take  out  the  bones,  and  roll  and  skewer  it :  if 
this  is  not  convenient,  it  can  be  done  at  home  witli  a  sharp 
knife.  Before  roasting,  take  out  the  wooden  skewers  put  in  at 
market,  unroll,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  anything 
else  liked,  and  roll  again  tightly,  fastening  securely  with  the 
iron  skewer  pins.  Put  it  in  a  pan  ou  a  little  iron  griddle  or 
trivet,  made  for  the  purpose  to  keep  it  just  over  the  pint  of 
water  in  the  pan.  Pepper  and  salt  freely,  dredge  with  flour 
and  baste.  Some  persons  like  half  a  teacup  of  pepper  vinegar, 
poured  over  just  before  it  is  done;  and  minced  onion,  thyme 
and  parsley  added  to  the  gravy,  which  should  be  brown. — 
Mrs.  B. 

To  Roast  Beep. 

The  sirloin  is  the  nicest  for  the  purpose. 

Plunge  the  beef  in  boiling  water  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes  : 
then  put  it  in  the  stove-pan;  skim  the  top  of  the  water  in 
which  it  has  been  boiled,  and  baste  the  roast,  after  dredgins^  it 
with  flour ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Baste  frequently,  antf 
roast  till  done. — Mrs,  P,  TF! 


140  beef  1  la  mode. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 

Take,  from  a  round  of  fresh  beef,  the  bone  ;  beat  the  meat 
all  over  slightly  to  make  tender.  Grate  a  loaf  of  bread,  mix 
with  it  equal  quantities  of — 

Thyme  and  pai-sley,  rubbed  fine. 

1  onion. 

The  marrow  from  the  bone. 

^  pound  suet. 

Pepper  and  salt,  cloves  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste. 
Mix  these  ingredients  with  three  eggs  well  beaten :  fill  the 
place  from  whence  came  the  bone,  and  what  is  left  rub  all  over 
the  round:  fasten  well  with  a  tape,  tied  round  to  keep  in 
shape.  Cover  the  pan  with  slices  of  bacon,  lay  the  beef  upon 
them,  baste  with  butter :  pour  in  the  pan  a  pint  of  water. 
Cover  closely  and  stew  gently  for  six  hours  ;  when  thoroughly 
done,  take  out  the  beef,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  strain  into 
a  saucepan,  set  it  on  the  stove  and  stir  into  it  one  teacup  Port 
wine.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  send  to  the  table  in  a  sauce 
tureen.  You  may,  for  supper,  dish  cold  :  dress  with  vegetable 
flowers,  whites  of  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine. — Mrs, 

jr.  w.  s. 

Beef  d  la  Mode. 

Take  a  round  or  a  rump  piece  of  beef,  take  out  the  bone,  the 
gristle  and  all  the  tough  pieces  about  the  edges.  Fill  the  cavi- 
ties from  which  the  bone  was  taken,  with  suet,  and  fat  salt 
pork. 

Press  this  so  as  to  make  it  perfectly  round,  pass  around  a 
coarse,  strong  piece  of  cloth,  so  as  to  hold  it  firmly  in  shape. 
If  the  round  is  six  inches  thick,  the  cloth  must  be  six  inches 
wide,  leaving  the  top  and  bottom  open.  With  a  larding  needle, 
fill  this  thickly  with  strips  of  fat  pork,  running  through  from 
top  to  bottom  and  about  one  inch  apart  each  way.  Set  this  in 
a  baking-pan,  pour  over : 

1  teacup  boiling  water, 

1  teacup  boiling  vinegar ;  mixed. 


BOILSD  BUEF  AND  TURNIPS.  141 

Add  to  this  one  heaping  tablespoonful  brown  sugar  and  a 
bunch  of  herbs. 

Sprinkle  over  the  beef  liberally  with  salt  and  black  pepper ; 
chop  one  small  onion  fine,  and  lay  over  top  of  the  beef.  Sim- 
mer this  for  two  or  three  hours,  basting  frequently  and  keeping 
an  inverted  tin  plate  over  the  beef  except  when  basting.  If  the 
gravy  stews  down  too  much,  add  stock  or  broth  of  any  kind. 
Tom  it  over,  and  let  the  top  be  at  the  bottom.  When  it  is 
done  and  tender,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy.     Pour  over : 

2  tablespoonfuLs  celery  vinegar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  made  mustard. 

1  wineglassful  acid  fruit  jelly. 
Simmer  and  bake  for  two  hours  longer,  fr^uently  basting, 
that  it  may  be  soft  and  seasoned  through  and  through.  Take  the 
beef  from  the  pan  and  remove  the  cloth ;  place  in  a  large  fiat  disli, 
pour  over  the  gravy,  and  over  this  one  teacu])  of  mushroom  sauce. 
Sift  finely  powdered  cracker  over  the  top  and  garnish  with 
grated  or  scraped  horseradish  and  parsley. — Mrs.  S.  T 

Seef  d  la  Mode. 

To  10  pounds  of  beef,  4  onions  chopped  up. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice,  1  teaspoonful  mace. 

Hed  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

1  pint  strong  vinegar. 
Rub  the  beef  in  the  mixture  for  three  or  four  days,  then  cook, 
with  all  these  ingi*edients.     The  H  piece  is  generally  the  part 
taken  for  this  purpose. — Mrs,  M,  B. 

Boiled  Beef  and  Turnips. 

The  brisket  or  breast  of  beef  is  nicest  for  boiling.  Keep 
Bufficiently  covered  in  water,  boiling  three  hours,  or  until 
tender. 

Peel  and  slice  half  a  dozen  turnips  and  put  with  beef,  boil- 
ing until  soft  enough  to  mash  with  a  spoon,  which  will  require 


143  TO   COLLA.U  BEEF — BKEFSTKAK    liKOILED. 

about  thirty  minutes.     Dress  with  one  teacup  of  milk,  peppet 
and  Siilt  to  the  taste. 

Stew  together  a  short  time  and  put  in  bottom  of  dish  with 
beef  on  the  top. — Mrs,  P.  W, 

To  Cor.LAii  Beef. 

Take  a  flank  of  fresh  b(ief,  stew  it  with  pepper,  salt,  allspice, 
saltpetre,  thyme,  and  sage. 

Then  roll  as  hard  as  yon  can,  and  wind  a  string  around  it ; 
then  boil  till  done.  It  must  be  served  up  cold,  cut  in  slices. — 
3fr8,  M,  P. 

RoLLKD  Beefsteak. 

Beat  a  large  tender  stetik  thoroughly  and  carefully. 

Sprinkle  over  sjilt,  pei)per,  sage,  minced  onion,  minced  pars- 
ley, and  bits  of  butter. 

Have  ready  some  mealy  Irish  potatoes  mashed  fine,  and 
seasoned  with  a  litth;  butter  and  salt.  Spread  over  all,  and 
roll  up  tightly  :  fasten  the  ends  and  sides  securely  with  skewer 
pins.  Place  in  a  pan  with  such  broth  or  gravy  as  may  be  on 
hand ;  if  none,  two  teacups  of  boiling  water,  and  one  small 
minced  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and  one  slice  of  pork. 

Sinnner  and  buste  as  you  would  a  roast  duck.  Sift  over  it 
browned  criicker,  pounded  fine.     Very  nice. — Mrs.  IS.  T. 

Beefsteak  Broiled. 

Cut  the  steak  one- half  inch  tliick  ;  it  should  tlien  be  beaten 
with  a  steak  beater  or  pestle.  The  griddle  should  be  hot  and  on 
the  coals  :  place  the  steak  on  the  griddle,  and  as  soon  as  seai-ed, 
turn  it ;  when  both  sides  are  seared,  place  it  in  a  pan,  season 
it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter:  rep(iat  this  for  every  piece  of 
steak,  and  place  in  the  pan,  whieli  should  be  kept  closely  cov- 
ered without  beini;  on  the  tire.  If  vour  heat  is  sufficient,  from 
threa  to  five  minutes  is  sufficient  to  cook, — Mrs,  P.  W. 


broilkd  stsak — beef8tka.k  trikd  with  onions.     143 

Broiled  Steak. 
A  porter-house  steak  is  cousidered,  by  some  persons,  best, 
others  pi'cfer  the  teiiderJoiu.  Beat  either  tender,  and  place  on 
a  gridiron  over  coals,  frequently  turning.  Have  ready  a  hot 
dish,  place  the  steak  on  it,  pepper  and  salt  well,  then  with  a 
knife  and  fork  profusely  butter,  with  one  largo  tablespoonful 
fl•e^5h  butter,  turning  and  pressing  it  so  as  to  absorb  the  butter ; 
pep[)er  again  and  set  the  dish  over  boiling  water  until  wanted, 
when  it  will  l)e  found  tender  and  juicy,  if  not  cooked  too  long 
on  a  giidiron.  One  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar  gives  this  the 
tiiste  of  venison,  and  to  this  may  be  added  one  tablespoonful 
made  mustard,  for  those  who  like  highly  seasoned  food. — Jifrs. 
S.  T. 

How  TO  Cook  Beefsteak. 

Take  a  thin,  long-handled  frying-pan,  put  it  on  the  stove  and 
heat  it  quite  hot.  In  this  put  the  pieces  of  steak  previously 
pounded,  but  do  not  put  a  particle  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan 
and  do  not  salt  the  steak.  Allow  the  steak  to  merely  glaze  over 
and  then  turn  it  quickly  to  the  other  side,  turning  it  several 
times  in  this  manner,  until  it  is  done.  Four  minutes  is  sufficient 
for  cooking.  When  done,  lay  it  on  the  platter,  previously 
warmed  ;  buttei*  and  salt,  and  set  a  moment  in  the  hot  ovcni. 
Allow  the  steak  to  heat  but  a  moment  on  each  side;  this  helps 
it  to  retain  all  its  sweet  juices,  and  putting  on  the  salt  nt  the 
last  monent,  after  it  is  on  the  platter,  draws  out  its  juices. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

Beefsteak  Fried  with  Onions. 

Prepare  the  steak  as  for  broiling,  pepper  and  roll  in  flo\ir  and 
fry  in  lard  ;  remove  the  steak  from  the  pan  when  done  ;  add  to 
the  gravy  one  chopped  onion,  pepper,  salt,  one-half  teacup  water, 
and  a  little  mustard. 

Cook  a  few  minutes,  put  the  steak  in  the  gi*avy — lot  it  remain 
a  shoH  time  ;  send  to  the  table  hot. — Mrs.  P.  W. 


144  TO  FRY  8TBAK — FRIZZLED  BBBF. 

To  Fry  Steak. 

Hunt  up  all  the  pickle  and  take  from  each  one  teacup  vinegar, 
lay  the  steak  in  a  deep  dish,  pour  over  the  vinegar  and  let  it 
stand  one  hour.  Take  a  clean  frying-pan,  throw  in  one  ounce 
butter,  and  some  of  the  vinegar  from  tlie  dish,  sufficient  to  stew 
ihe  steak.  If  managed  properly,  when  done  it  will  be  imbedded 
in  a  thick  gravy.  Put  the  steak  in  a  hot  dish,  before  the  fire  ; 
into  the  pan,  put  one  spoonful  black  pepper,  one  or  two  of  cat- 
sup, and  one  of  raw  mustard. — Mrs,  8, 

Fried  Steak. 

Qet  from  the  butcher  a  tenderloin  or  porter-house  steak.  Do 
not  wash  it,  but  be  careful  to  lay  it  on  a  clean  block  and  beat  it 
well,  but  not  into  holes,  nor  so  as  to  look  ragged.  Sprinkle 
over  pepper  and  salt,  then  dredge  with  flour  on  both  sides. 

Have  ready  a  hot  frying-pan,  lay  in  the  steak  and  cover 
closely.  The  juice  of  the  meat  will  be  sufficient  to  cook  it. 
Turn  often,  as  the  pan  must  be  hot  enough  to  scorch  and  make 
the  steak  and  gravy  brown. 

Before  it  gets  hard  or  overdone,  butter  liberally  ;  place  in  a 
hot  dish.  Pepper  again,  and,  if  preferred,  pour  over  first  one 
tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar,  then  one  tablespoonful  made  mus- 
tard, and  turn  in  over  all  the  hot  gravy.  Sift  powered  cracker 
over  and  serve. — Mrs,  8,  T. 

Frizzled  Bbbf. 

Shred  some  dried  beef,  parboil  it  until  it  is  sufficiently  freshen- 
ed, drain  off  the  water  and  add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
it.  Rub  equal  quantitieB  of  butter  and  flour  together  until 
smooth,  then  add  to  the  beefl  Beat  up  three  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  together,  stir  these  in  with  a  little  pepper,  a  oouple  of 
minutes  before  taking  from  the  fire.  This  is  to  be  served  hot  on 
toast. — Mrs.  If*, 


f&ioassekd  beef — to  8tbw  a  bump  of  beef.      l45 

Fricasseed  Beef. 

Take  any  piece  of  beef  from  the  fore  quarter,  such  as  is  gen- 
erally used  for  corning,  and  cook  it  tender  in  just  water  enough 
to  haTe  it  all  evaporate  in  cooking.  When  about  half  done,  put 
in  salt  enough  to  season  well,  and  half  toaspoonful  pepper.  If 
the  water  should  not  boil  away  soon  enough,  turn  it  off,  and  let 
the  beef  fry  fifteen  minutes — it  is  better  than  the  best  roast 
beef.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  adding  the  fat — when 
mixed,  pour  on  the  hot  juice  of  the  meat.  Serve  with  apple 
sauce. — Mrs.  D. 

Beef  Stew. 

This  is  best  when  made  of  slices  cut  from  an  underdone  roast, 
and  simmered  in  any  liquor  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled,  but 
if  none  is  at  hand,  use  water  instead — just  covering  the  beef. 
To  a  half  dozen  slices  of  the  usual  size,  add  : 

2  tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  made  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  of  acid  fruit  jelly. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 

1  saltspoonful  black  pepper. 

1  raw  turnip,  grated  or  scraped  fine. 

1  mashed  Irish  potato. 

Add  minced  onion  and  parsley. 

Boil  uj>  and  serve. 
Cold  beefsteak  or  mutton  chops,  which  are  always  unfit  to 
appear  upon  the  table  a  second  time,  are  delicious  cut  up  in 
Buiall  pieces  and  mixed  or  stewed  separately  in  this  way. — Mrs, 
&T, 

To  Stew  a  Rump  of  Beef. 

Stuff  the  beef  with  shallots,  thyme,  parsley,  chopped  fine, 

slips  of  bacon,  pepper,  salt  and  allspice.     Then  lay  it  in  a  pot 

with  water  sufiicieut  to  keep  it  from  burning  before  it  is  done. 

18 


146     LEBANON  8TBW — TONGUE  A  LA  TERRAPUf. 

Thicken  tlie  giavy  with  burnt  flour  and  butter,  and  when  it  ia 
served  up,  pour  a  little  wine  over  it  and  strew  the  top  with  all- 
spice.— Mrs,  M,  P. 

Lebanon  Stew. 

Take  scraps  of  raw  beef,  such  as  are  not  fit  for  boiling,  cut 
very  fine,  pickiug  out  all  the  strings,  and  put  into  a  kettle,  and 
more  than  cover  with  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  several  hours,  or 
until  the  water  is  nearly  all  gone.  Season  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  It  is  rich  and  needs  but  little  seasoning.  Serve  hot, 
as  you  would  hash. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Beef  Collaps. 

1^  pounds  lean  beef,  chopped  fine. 
1  tablespoonful  lai*d. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
With  enough  water  to  cook  it. 
After  being  well  cooked,  thicken  gravy,  and  season  with  vine- 
gar and  pepper. — Mrs.  H,  D. 

To  Stew  Beef  Tongue. 

Put  a  fresh  tongue  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  it,  and  let  it 
simmer  six  or  seven  hours.  Skim  the  gravy  well.  Half  an 
hour  before  dishing  it,  add  one-half  wineglassful  wine,  one-half 
wineglassful  walnut  catsup,  a  little  mace,  and  a  few  cloves  to 
the  gravy,  and  stew  awhile  together. — Mrs,  S,  T. 

Tongue  X  la  Terrapin. 

Take  a  freshly  salted  tongue  and  boil  tender ;  take  out,  and 
split  it,  stick  a  few  cloves  in,  cut  up  a  small  onion,  put  in  some 
sticks  of  mace,  and  a  little  brown  flour. 

Have  water  enough  in  a  stewpau  to  cover  the  tongue;  mijf 
in  the  ingredients,  before  putting  in  the  tongue.  Three  liard- 
boiled  eggs  chopped  up  fine  and  put  in  the  stew.     Add  a  glass 


TOMGUX  TOAST — TO  BTEW  BEEF  KIDNEYS.  147 

of  wine  j  list  before  taking  up.     iSeud  to  the  table  Lot,  gariiiuhed 
with  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings. — Mrs,  X.  C, 

Tongue  Toast. 

Take  cold  tongue  that  has  been  well  boiled,  minoe  fine,  mix 
it  weU  with  cream  or  a  little  milk,  if  there  is  no  cream.  Add 
the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  and  give  it  a  simmer  over  the  fire. 
Toast  nicely  some  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  and,  having  buttered, 
lajF  them  in  a  flat  dish,  that  has  been  heated,  then  cover  the 
toast  with  the  tongue  and  serve  up  directly. — Mrs,  8, 

To  Roast  an  Ox  Heart. 

Wash  it  well  and  clean  all  the  blood  carefully  from  the  pipes ; 
parboil  it  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  water ;  drain  and 
put  in  a  stuffing  which  has  been  made  of  bread  crumbs,  minced 
suet  or  butter,  thyme  or  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and   nutmeg. 

Put  it  down  to  roast  while  hot,  baste  it  well  with  butter,  and 
just  befoi-e  serving,  stir  one  tablespoonful  currant  jelly  into  the 
gravy.  To  roast,  allow  twenty  minutes  to  every  pound. — Mrs, 
A.  M,  D. 

Beef  Heart. 

Parboil  the  heart  until  nearly  tender,  then  gash  and  stuff 
with  rich  stuffing  of  loaf  bread,  seasoned  with  onion,  salt, 
pep})er,  and  sage.  Then  put  in  a  pan  and  bake,  turning  it 
several  times.     Baste  with  gravy  whilst  baking. — Mrs,  JT.  II, 

Stewed  Kidneys. 

Soak  the  kidneys  for  several  hours,  put  them  on  to  boil  until 
tender.  Roll  them  in  flour,  add  a  lumj)  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  two  spoonfuls  catsup— any  kind  will  answer,  though  wuluut 
is  the  best ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste.  Stew  them  until  well 
seasoned. — Mrs,  P,  W, 

To  Stew  Beef  Kidneys. 
Cut  iuio  pieces  and  stew  in  water,  with  a  nice  addition  of 


148  KIDNET8  FRIED — BROILED  KIDNEYS. 

Ravory  herbs,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  handful  flour  to  thicken 
the  gravy;    flavor   and  color  the  latter  with  burnt  sugar. — 

Kidneys  Fried. 

After  plunging  in  boiling  water,  cut  them  in  thin  slices  and 
fry  in  hot  butter ;  add  pepper,  salt,  and  toss  them  for  a  few 
minutes  in  rich  brown  gravy. — Mtb,  M, 

Beef  Kidney,  to  Fry. 

Trim  and  cut  the  kidney  in  slices ;  season  them  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  dredge  well  with  flour;  fry  on  both  sides,  and 
when  done,  lift  them  out,  empty  the  pan  and  make  a  gravy  for 
them  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  one  dessertspoonful  flour, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Shake  these  around 
and  give  them  a  minute's  simmering;  add  a  little  tomato  or 
mushroom  catsup,  lemon  juice,  vinegar,  or  any  good  sauce 
to  give  it  a  flavor.  Minced  herbs  are  to  many  tastes  an 
improvement  to  this  dish,  to  which  a  small  quantity  of  onion 
may  be  added  when  it  is  liked. — Mrs.  A,  M,  D. 

Kidneys  Grilled. 

Prepare  them  as  for  stewing,  cut  each  kidney  in  half  and  dip 
them  in  egg  beaten  up  with  salt  and  pepper;  bread-crumb 
them,  dip  them  in  melted  butter,  bread-crumb  them  again,  then 
grill  before  a  slow  fire;  serve  with  Worcestei-shire  or  some 
other  sauce. — Mrs,  K. 

Broiled  Kidneys. 

Plunge  some  kidneys  in  boiling  water ;  open  them  down  the 
Mntrc,  but  do  not  separate  them;  peel  and  pass  a  skewer 
across  them  to  keep  them  open  ;  pepper,  salt,  and  dip  them  in 
melted  butter. 

Broil  them  over  a  clear  fire  on  both  sides,  doing  the  cut  side 
first ;  remove  the  skewer,  have  ready  some  maitre  d'hote  sauce, 
viz.:  butter  beaten  up  with  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper, 


BBBF^S  UVEB — VBXSD  LIY£B.  149 

and  a  little  lemon  juice.     Put  a  small  piece  in  the  hollow  of 
each  kidney  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  JP. 

Beef's  Liver. 

Skin  the  liver,  cut  in  slices  and  lay  in  salt  water,  as  soon  as 
it  comes  from  market.  Fry  in  lard  with  pepper,  very  brown. 
Season  to  taste. — Mrs,  O. 

To  Fry  Liver. 

The  slices  must  be  cut  thin,  as  they  require  some  time  to  fry ; 
brown  both  sides ;  when  taken  up,  add  butter  and  salt  to  taste. 
Fry  in  hot  lard.— itfr*.  P.  W. 

Beef  Liver  with  Onions. 

Slice  the  liver  rather  thin,  and  throw  into  salt  and  water. 
Meantime  slice  the  onions  and  put  into  a  deep  frying-pan,  just 
covered  with  water,  and  boil  imtil  done,  keeping  it  closely  cov- 
ered. When  the  water  has  all  boiled  away,  put  in  a  heaping 
spoonful  of  sweet  lard,  and  fry  until  the  onions  are  a  light 
brown.  Take  them  up  in  a  deep  plate ;  set  them  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  or  range  to  keep  hot,  and  fry  the  liver  in  the  same 
pan,  adding  more  lard  if  there  is  not  enough.  Season  all  with 
salt  and  pepper,  cutting  the  liver  in  slices  suitable  to  help  one 
person.  Make  a  little  mound  of  fried  onions  on  each  piece, 
grate  pounded  cracker  on  the  top,  and  serve. — 3fr8,  S.  T, 

Dried  Liver  for  Relish. 

Salt  the  liver  well  for  four  days ;  hang  to  smoke  and  dry. 
Cut  in  very  thin  slices,  and  broil  in  pepper  and  butter. — 
Mrs.  W. 

Fried  Liver. 

Cut  the  slices  thin,  scald  them  for  some  minutes,  put  them  in 
a  pan  with  hot  lard,  and  fry  slowly  till  browned  on  both  sides ; 
add  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Take  up  the  liver,  and  pour  into 
the  pan  half  a  teacup  of  water ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes ;  put 


150  TO   8TEW  BBAIN8 — TO  FRY  BaA.IM8. 

the  Ih  er  back,  stir  it  up,  and  cover  it  up  for  a  short  time  to 
keep  it  from  being  hard. 

KidnejB  can  be  cooked  the  same  way,  excepting  you  must 
a«id  some  butter,  as  they  are  very  dry. — Mr8.  P.  W. 

To  Stew  Brains. 

ITave  them  thoroughly  soaked  in  salt  water  to  get  the  blood 
out.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  water  enough  to  cover  them ; 
boil  half  an  hour,  pour  off  the  water,  and  add  one  teacup  of 
cream  or  milk,  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  e^. 
Boil  well  together  for  ten  minutes,  when  put  into  the  disiu 
Add  one  tablespoonful  vinegar. — Mrs.  P,  W. 

To  Dress  Brains. 

Lay  in  salt  and  water,  then  either  scramble  like  eggs,  or  beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs  with  a  little  flour ;  dip  the  brains  in  and  fry 
them. — Mrs,  Wl 

To  Fry  Beef  Brains. 

Pour  over  the  brains  salt  water,  let  them  remain  for  an  hour, 
changing  the  water  to  draw  the  blood  out,  then  pour  over  them 
some  boiling  water  and  remove  the  skin.  Beat  up  two  egg«, 
and  make  a  batter  with  a  little  flour,  bread  crumbs  and  crackers. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.     Fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs,  P,  Wl 

To  Fry  Brains. 

Soak  the  brains  for  several  hours  in  weak  salt  water  to  get 
out  the  blood ;  drain  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  and  pour  very 
little  boiling  water  on ;  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Handle  them 
lightly,  and  arrange  so  as  to  form  round  cakes,  without  break- 
ing. Pepper  them  and  use  very  little  salt ;  brains  i*equire  very 
little  salt.  Have  ready  a  beaten  egg,  and  cover  the  top  of  the 
cakes  with  it,  using  a  spoon  to  put  it  on.  Sift  over  grated 
cracker  and  fry  in  hot  lard ;  serve  the  other  side  the  same  way. 
Keep  closely  covered  while  fnring. — Mrs.  S.  7\ 


BRAIN   OBOQUETTKS — ^BEEF  TRIPE.  151 

Brain  Croquettes. 

Wasb  tlie  brains  of  three  heads  very  thoroughly,  until  they 
are  free  from  membraneous  matter  and  perfectly  white.  Then 
scramble  with  three  eggs.  When  cold,  roll  into  egg-shaped 
balls,  with  floured  hands ;  dip  in  beaten  liggy  then  in  cracker  o* 
stale  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  lard. — Mrs,  li,  L. 

To  Prepare  Tripe. 

Empty  the  contents  of  the  stomach  of  a  fat  beef ;  put  it  in 
boiling  water,  one  piece  at  a  time,  to  prevent  getting  too  hot. 
Scraj)e  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  put  it  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water 
with  salt ;  wash  thoroughly,  and  change  the  salt  water  every  day 
for  four  or  five  consecutive  days;  when  perfectly  white,  boil  in 
a  very  clean  vessel  of  salt  water.  Then  put  it  in  vinegar  until 
you  wish  to  use  it.  Cut  it  in  pieces  of  three  or  four  inche.s 
square,  and  fry  in  egg  batter. — Mrs,  «/i  ff. 

Tripe. 

The  moment  the  tripe  is  taken  out,  wash  it  thoroughly  in 
many  cold  waters.  (If  you  have  quick-lime,  sift  it  over  the 
dark  inner  coat,  and  instantly  scrape  otf  the  coat.)  Cut  it  in 
four  parts.  Have  ready  boiling  water,  dip  and  scrape  \nitil  it 
becomes  quite  white.  Prepare  weak  brine  with  a  considerable 
mixture  of  meal ;  let  it  soak  a  day.  Continue  to  shift  it  every 
day,  and  every  other  day  scrape  it ;  this  must  be  done  for  a 
week,  and  then  make  nice  gruel,  in  which  it  must  be  well 
boiled,  first  tying  it  up  in  a  cloth.  When  boiled,  take  it  out 
of  the  cloth,  and  lay  it  in  a  weak  brine  for  a  night,  after  which 
it  may  be  put  with  the  feet. — Mrs.  It 

Beef  Tripe. 

Clean  the  tripe  carefully.  Soak  several  days  in  salt  water, 
then  in  clear  water,  changing  several  times.  Cut  in  slices,  boil 
])erfectiy  done,  dip  in  a  batter  of  egg  (beaten  light),  milk  and 


152  1X>  FBT   JKPB — ^BBEF  8AU8AOS. 

floor,  or  sift  meal  oyer  it.     Fry  or  broiL     Season  with  peppet 
and  salt. 

To  Fry  Tripe. 

Gut  the  tripe  after  it  has  been  boiled,  into  strips  about  four 
inches  wide  and  six  long.  Make  a  batter  with  two  eggs,  one 
teacup  of  flour  and  a  little  milk.  Pepper  the  tripe  and  roll  it 
in  the  batter.  Fry  in  a  pan  of  hot  lard;  as  soon  as  one  side 
is  done,  turn  it  over  on  the  other  side. — ifre.  JP.  TF! 

Gravy  for  Roast  Beef. 

When  the  joint  is  done  to  a  turn,  dish  it  and  place  before 
the  fire ;  then  carefully  remove  the  fat  from  the  dripping-pan, 
and  pour  the  gravy  into  the  dish,  not  over  the  meat^  as  is  the 
custom  of  inexperienced  cooks,  who,  moreover,  ruthlessly  drown 
it  with  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  or  highly  flavored  made-gravy. 
This  is  an  error,  for  there  is  always  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
natural  gravy  in  good  meat  to  render  the  use  of  foreign  sauces 
superfluous. — Mrs.  -P. 

Brown  Gravy. 

Take  the  gravy  that  drips  from  the  meat ;  add  a  little  water, 
one  spoonful  butter,  a  little  flour,  a  little  pepper  and  a  little 
salt.     Stew  all  together. — Miss  E,  P. 

Bologna  Sausage. 

Take  ten  pounds  of  beef,  and  four  potmds  pork,  two-thirds 
lean  and  one-third  fat ;  chop  very  fine  and  mix  well  together. 
Season  with  six  ounces  fine  salt,  one  ounce  black  pepper,  one- 
half   ounce    cayenne   pepper,  and    sage   to   the    taste. — Mn, 

Dr.  8. 

Beef  Sausage. 

Take  tough  l^eef  and  run  it  through  a  sausage  machine.  Form 
the  pulp  into  shapes  an  inch  thick,  cmd  the  size  of  a  common- 
beefsteak.     Season  to  the  taste. — Mn.  C. 


cow    HJt£L — A   FAKNCH   DISH.  153 

Cow  HE£L. 

As  soon  as  the  beef  is  killed,  throw  the  feet  in  cold  water, 
and  let  them  remain  during  the  night.  In  the  morning,  put 
them  into  a  pot  of  cold  water  and  let  them  boil  until  you  find 
you  can  easily  take  off  the  hair  and  the  hoof  with  a  knife ;  take 
care  as  the  water  boils  away  to  replenish  with  boiling  water. 
Have  ready  strong  brine,  not  boiled  nor  strong  enough  to  bear 
an  egg,  and  the  moment  the  feet  are  stripped,  throw  them  in. 
Let  them  stand  one  night  and  in  the  morning  pour  the  brine 
from  them  and  put  to  them  a  fresh  biine,  with  a  small  quantity 
of  vinegar.    In  a  day  or  two,  they  ai*e  fit  for  use. — Mrs,  M. 

Cow  Heel  Fried. 

Buy  the  feet  prepared  at  the  butchers ;  boil  well  done.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  ])epper. 

Have  ready  an  egg  batter ;  fry  brown,  and  serve  hot.  A  nice 
breakfast  dish. — Mrs.  Ji,  L,  0. 

To  Fry  Beep  Heel. 

Have  a  batter  made  of  eggs,  flour,  etc.,  as  for  tripe.  Split  tl.o 
feet  into  convenient  shapes  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Pour  soino 
vinegar  over  them  while  frying. — Mrs,  P,  W, 

Daube  Froide. 

Take  a  beef  shin,  chop  in  several  places  to  break  the  bone, 
keep  it  cooking  in  just  water  enough  to  prevent  burning,  till 
it  falls  to  pieces. 

Then  afler  taking  out  the  bones,  season  with  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  flour  rubbed  into  one  tablespoonful  butter,  red  and 
black  pepper,  salt  and  celery  seed. 

Stew  it  long  enough  to  cook  the  flour.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish, 
cover  with  a  plate,  and  put  weights  on  it  to  press  it.  Eat  cold, 
an  souse. — Mrs,  C.  M.  A, 

A  French  Dish. 
To  two  beef  feet,  put  four  gallons  water ;  set  on  the  fire  at 


154  BRINK  FOB  BKEK — ^TO  CORN  BEEF. 

eight  o^clock  in  the  morning.  When  the  bones  have  droppei) 
off  add  the  half  of  one  large  onion,  two  red  peppers,  and  one 
sprig  parsley,  all  chopped  fine. 

Take  another  pot,  put  in  two  gallons  water,  in  which  cut 
up  one-half  gallon  nice  pieces  of  beef,  half  an  onion,  one  red 
pepper,  parsley,  all  chopped  fine,  and  salt.  When  all  has 
boiled  to  pieces,  put  all  together  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour. 
Press  as  souse  cheese. — Mrs.  T, 

Brine  for  Beef. 

9  quarts  salt. 
1 8  gallons  water. 
2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
•^  pound  saltpetre. 
Boil  and  skim  well.    Let  the  beef  get  thoroughly  cold,  and  lee 
as  much  as  possible  of  the  blood  be  drained  out  before  putting 
it  in  the  brine.     It  may  sometimes  be  necessary,  in  the  coui'se 
of  a  few  months,  that  the  brine  be  boiled  and  skimmed  a  second 
time. 

This  quantity  will  suffice  for  about  half  of  an  ordinary  sized 
beef. — Mrs,  A,  C. 

To  Corn  Beef. 

For  every  hundred  pounds  of  beef,  take  : 

6  pounds  salt. 
2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

2  ounces  saltpetre. 

3  or  4  ounces  soda. 
1  oimce  red  pepper. 

The  whole  to  be  dissolved  in  four  gallons  of  water.  The  beet 
must  be  closely  packed  in  a  ban*el,  and  the  mixture  poured  over 
so  as  to  cover  it.  Let  it  stand  a  week  or  ten  days,  or  lonojer  if 
the  weather  is  cold  ;  then  pour  ofi*  the  brine,  boil  it,  and  skim 
off  the  blood.  Let  it  cool,  and  pour  back  on  the  beef.  War- 
ranted  to  keep. — Mrs.  Dr,  S. 


TO  OORN  BEEF  TONGtES  AND  BEKF.        155 

To  Corn  Beef  Tongues  and  Beef. 

One  tablespoonful  saltpetre  to  eacli  tongue  or  piece  of  beef; 
mb  this  in  first,  then  a  plenty  of  salt.  Pack  down  in  salt ; 
after  it  has  remained  ten  or  twelve  days,  put  this,  with  a  few 
pods  of  red  pepper  cut  up  fine,  in  a  brine  of  only  salt  and  wat^r, 
which  has  been  boiled,  strained,  and  cooled,  and  strong  enough 
to  bear  an  egg.  Wash  a  rock  clean  and  place  on  the  beef  or 
tongues,  to  keep  them  under  the  brine.  This  will  keep  an 
indefinite  length  of  time.  Fit  for  use  in  two  weeks. — Mrs, 
8.  T. 

To  CouM  Beef  or  Pork. 

50  pounds  meat. 

4^  pounds  salt 

1^  pounds  brown  sugar. 

^  pound  saltpetre. 

1  quart  molasses. 
Mix  well,  boil  and  skim.  When  milk- warm,  pour  it  over  the 
meat  with  a  ladle.  The  beef  must  be  soaked  in  clear  water  and 
wiped  dry,  before  putting  in  the  brine.  It  will  be  ready  for  use 
in  a  few  weeks.  Should  the  brine  mould,  skim  and  boil  again. 
Keep  the  meat  under  the  brine. — Mrs.  P,  W. 

To  Pickle  Tongue. 

Rub  it  well  with  salt  and  leave  it  alone  four  or  five  hours ; 
|K)ur  off  the  foul  brine ;  take  two  ounces  saltpetre  beaten  fine, 
and  rub  it  all  over  the  tongue ;  then  mix  one-quarter  of  a  pound 
brown  sugar  and  one  ounce  sal-prunella  (the  bay  salt  and  sal 
prunella  beat  very  fine),  and  rub  it  well  over  the  tongue.  Let 
it  lie  in  the  pickle  three  or  four  days  ;  make  a  brine  of  one  gal- 
lon water  with  common  salt  strong  enough  to  bear  an  g^^^  a 
half-pound  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  saltpetre,  and  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  bay  salt.  Boil  one  quarter  of  an  hour,  skimming 
well ;  when  cold  put  in  the  tongue  ;  let  it  lie  in  the  pickle  four-> 
teen  days,  turning  it  every  day.     When  raady  to  use  take  it 


156      TO  COSN  BEEF — HUNTEB's  BEEF,  OB  SPICED  BOUND. 

out  of  the  pickle,  or  hang  it  in  wood  smoke  to  diy. — 3frB 
A.  M,  D. 

To  Corn  Beef. 

One  tablespoonful  saltpetre  to  each  piece  of  beef,  well  rubbed 
in.  Then  rub  in  as  much  salt  as  it  will  take.  Let  it  stand  ten 
or  twelve  days,  and  then  put  it  in  strong  brine.  Will  be  ready 
for  use  in  a  week. — Jfr«.  (7o^.  A.  F 

Corked  Bef.f. 

Having  a  quarter  of  beef  cut  into  proper  size  and  shape 
for  nice  roasting  pieces,  put  it  in  a  barrel  of  weak  brine  and  let 
it  remain  four  days.  Tlicn  make  a  brine  that  will  bear  an  egg, 
to  which  add : 

\  pound  saltpetre. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 

Transfer  the  beef  to  this  barrel,  cover  closely,  and  let  it 
remain  a  week.  Put  a  weight  on  the  meat  to  insure  its  being 
kept  under  the  brine.  Beef  thus  prepared  in  January  will  keep 
well  through  the  month  of  March,  improving  with  the  lapse  of 
time.  It  is  best  served  cold.  A  valuable  receipt  for  country 
housekeepei*s. — Mrs,  Wm.  A,  S, 

Hunter's  Beef,  or  Spiced  Round. 

To  a  round  of  beef  weighing  twenty-four  pounds,  take  • 

3  ounces  saltpetre. 
3  ounces  coarsest  sugar. 
1  ounce  cloves. 
1  nutmeg. 
•J-  ounce  allspice. 
3  handfuls  salt 
Beat  all  into  the  finest  powder ;  allow  the  beef  to  hang  three 
or  four  days  ;  remove  the  bone,  then  rub  the  spices  well  into  it, 
continuing  tr  do  so  every  two  or  three  days,  for  two  or  thi'ee 
woeks. 

When  to  be  dressed,  dip  it  in  cold  water,  to  take  off  tJio 


HUHTEB's  BOUKD)  or  8FICED  beef — BPICBD  BEEF       157 

Joofie  spioeB,  bind  it  up  tightly  and  put  into  a  pan  with  a  tea- 
capful  water  at  the  bottom.  Spidnkle  the  top  of  the  meat  with 
suet,  cover  it  over  with  a  thick  batter,  and  brown  paper  over  il. 
Bake  five  hours. — Mrs.  T.  G. 

Hunter's  Round,  ob  Spiced  Beef. 

To  a  round  of  beef  that  weighs  twenty-five  ]  ounds,  take  tho 
following : 

3  ounces  saltpetre. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  nutmeg. 

1  ounce  allspice. 

1  pint  salt. 
Let  the  round  of  beef  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place  twenty-foui 
hours.  Take  out  the  bone,  and  fill  the  space  with  suet  and 
spices  mixed.  Rub  the  above  ingredients  all  over  the  round  y 
put  in  a  wooden  box  or  tub,  turn  it  over  occasionally  and  rub  a 
small  quantity  of  salt  on  it.  Let  it  remain  three  weeks.  Then 
make  a  stiff  paste  of  flour  and  water,  cover  the  rau/nd  with  it 
and  set  in  the  oven.  Bake  three  houi-s  slowly.  Remove  the 
paste  when  cold,  and  trim  neatly  the  -rough  outside,  and  slice 
horizontally.     Served  only  when  cold. — Mrs.  W.  A.  S. 

To  Spice  a  Round  of  Beef. 

Take  three  tables]>oonfuls  saltpetre,  four  tablespoonfuls  brown 
sugar,  with  which  rub  your  beef  well.  Two  teacups  of  salt, 
one  teacup  of  cloves,  one  teacup  of  allspice  (the  spice  must  be 
groimd  fine).  Rub  the  beef  with  these  ingredients.  Put  it 
into  a  tub  as  near  the  size  of  the  beef  as  possible  ;  turn  it  every 
day  in  the  pickle  it  makes.  Li  about  four  weeks  it  will  be 
reatly  for  use.  For  thirty  pounds  use  two  pounds  beef  suet. 
When  cooked  place  sticks  across  the  bottom  of  the  pot  to  pre 
▼ent  its  burning. — Mrs.  JR.  L.  P. 

Spiced  Beef. 
Take  eight  or  ton  pounds  of  the  thin  fl:ink,  remove  any  gris 


158        TO  COOK  CORNED  BERF-TONQUEy  KTO. 

lie,  skin  or  bones ;  rub  it  over  with  half  ounce  saltpetre,  halt 
ounce  bay  salt,  then  rub  it  well  in  with  a  mixture  of  spices,  tfao 
the  following  proportions  being  used : 

1  ounce  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  allspice. 

^  ounce  ground  ginger. 

J  ounce  cloves. 

^  ounce  mace. 
Use  only  as  much  as  will  suffice  to  rub  the  beef  all  over ;  then 
add  three  ounces  common  salt,  and  quarter  of  a  pound   coarse 
sugar. 

Let  the  beef  remain  a  fortnight  in  this  pickle,  turning  it  and 
rubbing  it  every  day  :  then  take  it  out,  cover  it  with  the  spices 
and  chopped  sweet  herbs,  roll  it  very  tight,  tie  it  with  tape,  put 
it  into  a  pan  with  hulf-pint  water,  and  half-pound  suet. 

Bake  it  after  the  bread  has  been  drawn,  for  six  hours ;  put  a 
heavy  weight  upon  it,  and  when  cold  take  off  the  tape. 

To  Cook  a  Corked  Round  op  Beef. 

Wash  it  clean  of  the  brine,  sew  it  in  a  coarse  towel  and  boil 
six  to  eight  houra.  Do  not  remove  the  towel  until  next  day ; 
it  is  nicer  to  put  it  in  a  round  mould  and  gives  it  a  good  shape. 
When  perfectly  cold,  trim  nicely  and  cut  it  across  the  gmin. — 
3fr8.P.   W. 

To  Cook  Corned  Beef-Tongue,  etc. 

If  the  beef  has  been  in  brine  long  or  has  been  dried,  it  must 
be  soaked  in  cold  water  twelve  hours  before  boiling.  If  freshly 
cured  it  is  unnecessary.  The  beef  should  be  put  on  in  a  large 
pot  of  water  early  in  the  morning  and  simmer  for  hours.  Set 
the  pot  at  tlie  back  of  the  range  or  stove,  where  it  will  gently 
boil  during  the  preparation  of  dinner.  When  it  firat  com 
meuces  to  boil,  take  off  the  scum.  After  it  is  thoroughly  done, 
take  off  the  boiler  or  pot.  Set  away  with  the  beef  under  tho 
liquor  to  remain  until  next  day,  when  it  will  be  found  juicy  and 


TO  OOOK   COKNED  BEEF — ^TO  OtJBE  FOB  DBYINO.        159 

tender.     With  a  sharp  knife  cai-efully  trim,  and  gai'uish  witli 
scraped  horseradish  and  curled  parsley. — Mt9,  /S.  T, 

How  TO  Cook  Corned  Beef. 

The  flank  is  a  nice  piece  to  corn ;  though  an  ugly  piece  of 
meat,  it  can  be  made  a  nice  and  delicious  dish.  Wash  the 
flank  clean,  roll  it  up  as  tight  as  you  can,  and  tie  it  with  strong 
cord  in  three  places ;  then  sew  it  up  in  a  coarse  towel  and  put 
it  on  and  boil  from  five  to  six  hours,  according  to  size ;  take  it 
out  of  the  pot,  but  do  not  undo  it,  put  it  on  a  dish  or  pan  and 
put  a  weight  on  it ;  let  it  stand  until  next  day,  then  i^euiove 
the  cloth  and  strings ;  trim  it,  and  you  have  a  nice  dish. — Mrs, 
P.  W. 

Smoked  Beef. 

To  a  piece  of  beef  weighing  about  twelve  or  fourteen  pounds, 
you  rub  in  the  following : 

1  pint  salt. 
1  cup  brown  sugar. 
1  cup  molasses. 

^  teaspoonful  pounded  saltpetre. 
Rub  this  well  on  the  beef  aud  turn  it  several  times.     At  the 
cud  often  days  drain  it,  rub  bran  on  it,  liaug  it  up  and  smoke 
for  sevei*al  days. — Mrs,  H,  7\ 

To  Cure  Beef  fok  Dkying. 

This  recipe  keeps  the  meat  moist,  so  that  it  hu.s  none  of  thai 
toughness  dried  beef  mostly  has  when  a  little  old.  To  every 
twenty-eight  or  thirty  pounds,  allow  one  tablespoonful  saltpetre, 
one  quart  fine  salt,  mixed  with  molasses  until  the  color  is  about 
that  of  light  brown  sugar ;  rub  tlie  pieces  of  meat  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  when  done,  let  all  stick  to  it  that  will.  Puck  in  a  keg 
or  half-barrel,  that  the  pickle  may  cover  the  moat,  and  let  it 
remain  forty-eight  houi*s ;  at  the  end  of  that  time,  onougli  i)ickle 
will  be  formed  to  cover  it.     Take  it  out  and  hang  in  a  suitable 


160         TO  OUBB  BEEF  IIAK — 6TBWED  LOIN   OF   VRkL, 

place  for  drying.     Allow  all  the  mixture  to  adhere  to  the  meat 
that  will. — 3tr8.  A.  M.  2>. 

To  Cure  Beef  Hail 

Divide  tho  ham  into  three  parts ;  rub  on  half-pint  molasses  ; 
let  it  remain  in  this  molasses  a  day  and  two  nights,  turning  it 
over  occasionally  during  the  time.  Kub  on  then  one  handful 
salt  and  put  it  back  in  the  vessel  with  the  molasses ;  turn  it 
over,  morning  and  night  for  ten  days.  Hang  it  up  to  dry  for 
one  week,  then  smoke  a  little.  It  is  an  excellent  plan,  after  suf- 
ficiently smoked,  to  put  each  piece  of  beef  in  a  bag,  to  protect 
from  insects,  and  keep  hanging  till  used. — Miss  K,  W. 

To  Dry  Beef  and  Tongue. 

The  best  pieces  are  the  brisket,  the  round  and  rib  pieces  thai 
are  used  for  roasting.  Put  about  the  middle  of  February  in 
biine.  Kub  first  with  salt,  and  let  them  lie  for  a  fortnight,  then 
throw  them  in  brine  and  let  them  lay  there  three  weeks,  take 
them  out  and  wipe  dry :  rub  them  over  with  bran  and  hang  in 
a  cool  place  and  dark,  not  letting  them  touch  anything.  Should 
there  come  a  wet  season,  put  them  in  the  sun  to  dry  a  little. — 
Mrs.  R, 

Stewed  Loin  of  Veal. 

Take  part  of  a  loin  of  veal,  the  chump  end  will  do.  Put  it 
into  a  large,  thick,  well-tinned  iron  saucepan,  or  into  a  stew-pan, 
add  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  shake  it  over  a  moderate  fire 
until  it  begins  to  brown ;  flour  the  veal  well  over,  lay  it  in  a 
saucepan,  and  when  it  is  of  a  fine,  equal  light  brown,  pour  grad- 
ually in  veal  broth,  gravy  or  boiling  water,  to  nearly  half  its 
depth ;  add  a  little  salt,  one  or  two  sliced  carrots,  a  small  onion, 
or  more  when  the  flavor  is  liked,  and  one  bunch  parsley. 

Stew  the  veal  very  softly  for  an  hour  or  rather  more,  then 
turn  it  and  let  it  stew  for  nearly  or  quite  another  hour  or 
longer,  should  it  not  appear  perfectly  done.     A  longer  time 


TSAL  0U0P8 — BOA8T  VBAL — ^VBAL  STBAK.      161 

musb  be  allowed  when  the  meat  is  more  than  middling  size. 
Dish  the  joint ;  skim  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  and  strain  it 
over  the  meat,  or  keep  the  joint  hot  while  it  is  rapidly  reduced 
to  a  richer  consistency. — Jfra,  J', 

Veal  Chops. 

First  beat  nntil  tender,  then  lay  the  chops  in  a  pan,  pour  in 
just  enough  boiling  water  to  barely  cover  them.  Cover  closely 
and  simmer  till  tender,  sprinkling  over  after  they  are  nearly 
done,  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  lifb  from  the  pan,  dry  with 
a  clean  towel,  butter  them,  then  cover  with  beaten  egg,  and  sift 
on  cracker  crumbs.  Lay  on  a  baking  dish  or  pan  and  set  in  the 
stove  to  brown.     Garnish  and  serve. — Mrs.  8.  T, 

Roast  Ybal. 

PluDge  into  boiling  water,  dry  with  a  clean  cloth ;  rub  well 
with  pepper  and  salt,  then  with  butter.  Dredge  with  flour, 
aud  put  into  a  pan  with  two  teacups  of  boiling  water,  a  slice  of 
bacon  or  pork,  minced  onion  and  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  Set 
in  a  hot  oven ;  simmer,  baste  and  brown.  Yeal  is  longer  cook- 
ing than  lamb.  When  a  light  brown,  with  a  pin,  stick  on 
a  buttered  paper  to  prevent  dryness.  TMckeu  the  gravy  with 
brown  flour,  if  brown  gravy  is  wanted,  but  always  with  mashed 
Irish  potato  if  white  gravy  is  desired. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Yeal  Steak. 

First  beat  until  it  is  tender,  then  without  washing  lay  on  a 
gridiron  over  coals ;  turn  over  it  a  tin  plate  to  prevent  hardness 
and  dryness.  Turn  the  steak,  and  when  well  done,  with  a  knife 
and  fork  press  it  and  turn  it  in  a  pan  or  plate  of  hot  melted 
butter.  After  putting  in  plate  of  hot  butter  and  letting  it 
absorb  as  much  of  the  butter  as  possible,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  pep- 
per and  salt  it  plentifully,  aud  pour  over  the  melted  butter. 
(Set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  but  not  long  enough  for  the 

batter  to  fry,  which  is  ruinous  to  the  flavor  of  steaks,  game, 

14 


i02  V£AL  OUTLETS. 

etc.)     Whfcu  donoy  sift  over  grated  cracker.     Qarniah  wiih  pars 
ley  and  serve  hot. — Mm.  S,  T. 

Veal  Cutlbt. 

Gut  the  veal  as  if  for  steak  or  frying,  put  lard  or  butter  in 
the  pan,  and  let  it  be  hot.  Beat  up  an  egg  on  a  plate  and  have 
flour  on  another ;  dip  the  pieces  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  the 
floui ,  on  both  sides,  and  lay  in  the  pan  and  fry  until  done,  '.um- 
ing  it  carefully  once.  This  makes  an  excellent  dish  if  well  pre- 
pared.    This  way  is  superior  to  batter. — Mrs,  D, 

Veal  CuUeL 

Cut  it  in  pieces  the  size  of  your  hand,  and  lay  in  salt  water 
some  little  time.  Take  out  and  wipe  dry.  Put  a  small  piece 
of  lard  in  the  pan  and  sprinkle  the  cutlet  with  a  very  little 
flour,  pepper,  and  salt.  Fry  until  nearly  done.  When  it 
begins  to  brown,  jjour  ofl*  the  lard,  and  pour  in  a  little  water, 
one  large  spoonful  butter,  and  a  little  celery-seed.  Turn  it  over 
frequently. — Mrs,  W. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Trim  smoothly  and  beat  till  tender,  sprinkle  over  pepper 
and  salt;  then  with  a  spoon  spread  over  an  egg  beaten  till 
thick,  and  cover  thickly  with  pounded  cracker. 

Have  some  hot  lard  ready  in  the  frying-pan,  put  the  cutlets  on 
to  fry,  with  the  prepared  side  down ;  when  of  a  light  yellow 
brown,  dress  the  other  side  the  same  way  and  fry,  keeping 
closely  covered.  When  they  are  perf^tly  done  (veal  should 
never  be  rare),  place  in  a  hot  dish;  pour  one  teacup  o 
milk,  one  small  piece  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  minced  onion 
and  parsley  into  the  pan,  stirring  constantly.  When  it  boils 
up,  pour  into  the  dish  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Always  sift 
browned  cracker  over  such  dishes. — Mrs.  jS.  7\ 


gold  vkal  dre88gd  with  white  sauob.  168 

Cold  Veal  Dressed  with  White  Sauce. 

Boil  one  pint  milk  and  thicken  it  a  little  with  one  teaspoon 
ful  flour,  wet  with  cold  water.  When  well  boiled,  put  iL 
yery  thin  slices  of  veal,  and  simmer  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Have  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten  up,  and  add  to  the  meat, 
also  a  piece  of  butter. 

Let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  serve  it  on 
toasted  slices  of  bread.  A  few  slices  of  bacon,  cut  thin  and 
fried  to  a  crisp,  make  a  good  relish  with  this  dish. — Mrs.  G.  P. 

Minced  Veal. 

Cut  some  slices  of  cold  veal  into  small  bits  or  dice ;  take  the 
cold  gravy  and  add  to  it  a  half-pint  of  boiling  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful  tomato  or  walnut  catsup,  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon^ 
pepper  and  saltw 

Simmer  it  with  the  meat  slowly  for  half  an  hour ;  then  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  flour  made  into  a  thin  batter  and  pour  it 
into  the  gravy,  stirring  it  rapidly.  Boil  for  ten  minutes ;  turn 
in  one-half  cupful  cream,  or  same  quantity  of  milk  with  a  small 
piece  of  butter ;  let  it  boil  up.  Serve  on  a  hot  ]>1attcr  garnislic  d 
with  sippets  of  fried  bread. — Mrs.  P. 

Veal  Loaf. 

2  pounds  chopped  veal. 
^  pound  chopped  pork. 

3  tablespoonfuls  powdered  cracker, 
i  tablespoonful  sage. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
Salt  to  taste. 

1  egg  well  beaten  and  mixed  in  the  ingredients. 
Make  up  into   a  loaf  or  pone,  and  bake  slowly  three  and  a 
half  houra.     This  is  an  excellent  dish  to  use  with  lettuce,  etc^. 


164  YBAL  LOAF — ^TBAL  OAKB. 

in  the  spring  or  early  aatumni  when  game  in  out  of  season. 
It  is  best  to  be  made  the  day  before  using. — Mr9,  R,  H. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  meat  taken  from  fillet  or  shoulder,  or 
wherever  the  meat  is  free  from  fat.  Take  out  all  the  little 
white,  fibrous  or  sinewy  particles,  and  chop  very  finely,  almost  to 
a  paste.  Mix  in  rolled  cracker  crumbs  with  one  egg  to  hold  it 
together,  a  little  butter,  red  and  black  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Form  into  a  small  loaf;  dredge  with  the  cracker  crumbs,  and 
put  several  little  pieces  of  butter  over  the  outside.  Set  this  loaf 
uncooked,  with  about  one  quart  water  or  some  broth,  in  a  pan ; 
put  it  in  the  oven  and  baste  constantly  for  two  hours,  and  when 
taken  out  to  cool,  pour  any  remaining  liquid  over  the  loaf.  It 
ought  to  cut  in  slices  and  be  quite  compact — ^no  caverns  in  the 
inside  of  the  loaf. — Mrs,  G,  P. 

Veal  Cake. 

Take  one  and  a  half  pounds  veal,  and  half  a  pound  of  bacon, 
stew  together  with  very  little  water,  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
thyme  and  parsley. 

When  the  veal  is  tender,  cut  into  small  square  pieces,  as  also 
the  bacon. 

Boil  four  eggs  hard  and  slice  them  up,  and  chop  some  raw 
parsley  fine. 

Take  a  mould  or  small  bowl,  lay  the  slices  of  egg  in  a  kind 
of  pattern  prettily  at  the  bottom  of  it.  Sprinkle  the  parsley 
between  the  slices.  Add  veal,  bacon,  and  more  egg  alternately, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  also  some 
more  parsley,  and  so  on  until  the  bowl  is  nearly  full.  Fill  up 
with  the  gravy  the  veal  was  boUed  in,  which  ought  to  be  very 
rich.  Let  it  stand  until  quite  cold,  then  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish. 
The  slices  cut  firmer  and  more  solid  when  the  cake  is  made  the 
day  beforehand,  which  it  is  best  to  do  if  the  weather  penuits 
—Mr9.  K  P. 


swhetdkeans — calf's  liver  broiled.  1»35 

Sweetbreads. 

Three  good  throat  sweetbreads  will  make  a  dish.  Blanch 
diem  well  and  lay  in  cold  water,  then  take  out  and  dry  well. 
Add  egg,  bread  crumbs,  and  herbs. 

Put  on  a  dish  and  brown  in  an  oven.  Eat  with  mushroom 
or  tomato  sauce. — Mrs,  M. 

Sweetbreads. 

Soak,  and  put  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Stew  in  cold  water  to  blanch  them. 

They  may  be  cut  in  slices  or  in  dice  and  put  in  fiicassee  or 
meats,  or  ragoiits,  or  used  as  a  separate  dish. — Mrs,  W, 

Sweetbreads. 

Lay  them  in  salt  and  water^  after  washing ;  parboil  until 
done ;  drain,  dry,  and  split  in  ha]f.  Bub  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  Dip  in  one  egg  beaten  stiff.  Sift  over  pounded 
cracker. 

Butter  a  baking-dish,  lay  them  in,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  to 
brown,  or  fry  until  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  S,  T, 

Calves'  Feet  dressed  as  Terrapins. 

Boil  eight  feet  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bones,  then  remove 
them.  Put  them  in  a  pan  with  one-half  pint  of  the  rich  gravy 
in  which  they  are  boiled,  and  add  two  large  spoonfuls  butter. 

Bub  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  witlx  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  mustard,  a  very  little  cayenne,  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

When  well  mixed  with  the  ^^^  stir  all  together  into  the  feet 
or  gravy.  Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes,  and  just  before  dishing 
add  two  wineglasses  of  good  cooking  wine  and  simmer  again 
before  serving. — Mrs,  M,  JE.  L,  W, 

Calf's  Liver  Broiled. 

Cut  the  liver  in  thin  slices,  wash  it  and  let  it  stand  in  salt 
and  water  half  an  hour  to  draw  out  the  blood.     Parboil  in 


166   TO  FRY  calf's  LIVEB — BDfPLE  WAT  OF  OOOKINO  UVKR. 

fresh  salt  and  water,  and  broil,  basting  frequently  in  butter. 
Lay  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  lump  of  butter. — Mrs.  A,  M,  D, 

To  Fry  Calf's  Liver. 

Cut  in  thin  slices.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  sweet  herbs, 
and  parsley. 

Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  brown  with  lard.  Have  it 
thoroughly  done,  but  it  must  not  be  hard  ;  keep  covered  while 
frying. — Mrs,  jR, 

Calf's  Liver  Fried. 

A  cairs  liver,  as  white  as  can  be  procured,  flour,  one  bunch 
savory  herbs,  including  parsley,  juice  of  a  lemon;  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  a  little  water. 

Cut  the  liver  into  slices  of  a  good  and  equal  shape.  Dip 
them  in  flour  and  fry  brown.  Place  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep 
before  the  fire  while  you  prepare  the  gravy.  Mince  the  herbs 
fine  and  put  into  the  frying-pan  with  a  little  more  butter ;  add 
the  other  ingredi<mts  with  one  teaspoouful  flour.  Simmer 
gently  until  the  herbs  are  done,  and  pour  over  the  liver. — Mrs^ 
A.  M.  D, 

Bewitched  Liver. 

3  pounds  calfs  liver,  chopped  fine. 
\  pound  salt  pork. 

1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs. 

2  eggs  well  beaten. 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper. 

\  teaspoonful  red  pepper. 
Mix  all  well  together,  and  put  into  a  tin  mould  ;  set  it  m  a 
pot  of  cold  water  and  let  it  boil  two  hours.     Then  set  the  mould 
in  a  cool  oven  to  dry  off  a  little ;  when  thoroughlv  cold  turn  it 
out. — MrB,  «/'.  H. 

Simple  Way  of  Cooking  Liver. 
Wash  calfs  liver  and  heart  thoroughly ;  chop  thorn  fine  aa 


CAJ.f's   BBAIN8 — ^VKAL   DAUBK.  167 

|K»sibley  after  they  have  been  boiled  till  very  tender ;  then  add 
pepper  ano  salt,  and  one  tablespoonful  flour,  straining  into  it  a 
little  of  tlie  water. — Mrs,  J[  JP,  HI 

Calf's  Brains. 

Beat  up  the  brains  with  a  little  lemon-peel  out  fine,  a  little 
nutm^  grated,  a  little  mace  beaten,  thyme  and  paraley 

Shred  fine  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Fry 
in  little  flat  cakes  and  lay  on  top  of  the  baked  head. 

If  for  soup,  mix  in  one^half  the  bi*ains  with  the  soup  while 
the  soup  is  boiling,  and  make  the  other  in  cakes  and  lay  together 
with  forcemeat  balls  in  the  soup. — Mrs,  H, 

Calf's  Head. 

Split  the  head,  take  out  the  brains,  boil  till  it  will  fall  to 
pieces.  Cut  it  up  fine  and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg 
to  the  taste;  add  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  wiueglassful 
wine,  and  the  brains,  which  are  not  to  be  boiled  with  the 
head.  Put  in  a  dish  and  bake  with  or  without  pastu. — Mrs. 
J.D. 

Bakbd  Calf's  Head. 

Boil  until  tender,  then  cut  into  pieces  and  put  into  a  deep 
dish  with  pepper,  salt,  a  few  cloves,  mace,  a  little  thyme. 

A  spoonful  butter  with  flour,  well  mixed  through  the  meat, 
a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Then  add  a  wineglass  of  wine 
and  fill  up  the  dish  with  the  water  the  head  was  boiled  in,  and 
bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Garnish  with  forcemeat  balls 
and  rings  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  just  before  sending  to  the  table. 

Vbal  daube. 

After  the  head  of  a  calf  is  skinned  and  the  feet  prepared  by 
taking  off  the  hoofs,  scraping,  etc.,  throw  them  into  cold  wat<;r 
for  twenty-four  hours.    Put  them  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  and 


108  MUTTON    AND  LAMB. 

simmer  until  the  flesb  leaves  the  bones  and  there  is  but  little 
water  left. 

Throw  in  salt^  popper*  minced  onion,  parsley,  and  thyme ; 
cake  the  meat  and  bones  out.  Beat  up  two  eggs  until  light, 
add  two  tablespoonfiils  cold  water,  then  the  liquor  from  the 
boiler.  Stir  all  together,  boil  up  and  stmin  on  the  meat  from 
the  head,  which  must  first  be  cut  up  or  picked  fine  and  chopped 
with  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  seasoned  to  the  taste  with  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  wineglass  of  jelly.  This  is  set  aside  in 
a  mould  or  bowl  and  eaten  cold  with  garnish  of  scraped  horse- 
radish and  parsley.  The  calves'  feet  make  another  good  dish  by 
drying  first,  then  dipping  in  batter  made  of  an  egg,  one  spoon- 
ful of  fiour,  one  small  teacupful  milk,  with  a  little  salt,  and 
frying. — Mrs,  S.  T, 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Wlien  the  weather  will  admit  of  it,  mutton  is  better  for 
being  kept  a  few  days  before  cooking.  The  saddle,  which  is 
considered  the  finest  piece,  consists  of  the  back  or  loin  and 
upper  part  of  the  hind  legs.  In  getting  this  nice  roast,  however, 
you  spoil  the  hind  quarter,  as  the  saddle  takes  some  of  the 
nicest  parts  of  this  and  leaves  it  too  dry  to  cook  by  itself.  The 
hind  quarter  and  loin  together  make  a  very  nice  dish — the 
latter  being  fat  and  juicy. 

The  fore  quarter  is  sometimes  cut  by  taking  off  the  shoulder 
and  taking  the  rib-piece,  making  a  piece  called  the  brisket  or 
breas'',  and  many  persons  esteem  this  the  choicest  part  of  the 
mutton.  The  ribs  cut  next  to  the  back  are  used  for  mutton 
chops. 

When  you  have  a  large  supply  of  mutton  on  hand,  it  is  well 
to  put  the  hind  quarters  in  brine,  as  you  can  thus  com  them  as 


TO  BOABT  MUTTON — ^BOAST  LEG  OF  MUTTON.  169 

nicely  as  beef.  As  mutton  spoils  easily,  this  plan  is  very  ad- 
viJBable. 

Whilst  boiled  mutton  is  very  nice,  lamb  is  spoiled  by  this 
mode  of  cooking.  If  lamb  is  to  be  roasted,  it  should  be  cover- 
ed with  the  caul,  as  the  fat,  dripping  from  this,  will  preserve 
fhe  moisture  of  the  meat. 

In  carving  the  fore  quarter  of  lamb,  first  take  off  the  shoul- 
der and  then  cut  the  ribs  in  strips. 

Lamb  is  seldom  out  except  in  quarters,  and  when  nicely  cook- 
ed there  is  nothing  better.  It  should  be  four  months  old  before 
being  eaten.  The  season  for  lamb  is  from  May  to  August, 
whilst  that  for  mutton  is  from  August  to  Christmas. 

To  Boast  Mutton. 

The  hind  quarter  is  the  nicest  part  of  the  mutton  to  roast,  and 
requires  longer  to  cook  than  lamb.  Put  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  and  let  it  simmer  one  hour.  Lift  it  into  a  baking-pan, 
rub  with  salt  and  pepper  (too  much  salt  makes  the  meat  tough). 
Bab  over  it  a  little  lard  and  then  dredge  with  flour :  skim  off 
the  top  of  the  water  and  pour  over  it  Set  it  in  a  hot  oven, 
bastiug  frequently  to  prevent  it  from  being  hard  and  dry ;  roast 
till  thoroughly  done.  This  is  nice  to  set  aside  for  a  cold  dish, 
garnished  with  horseradish  and  eaten  with  currant  jelly. — Mrs, 

P.  W. 

KoAST  Leo  op   Mutton. 

Choose  young  and  tender  mutton.     Take  off  the  shank — ^wash 

it  well ;     let  it  Lie  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  salt  water  to 

take  the  blood  out.     Bub  with  little  salt  and  pepper  well. 

Lay  on  a  grate,  which  will  go  nicely  in  a  baking-pan,  over  one 

pint  boiling  water ;  break  the  bones  of  the  shank  in  the  water, 

adding  more  pepper  and  salt.     Set  it  in  a  very  hot  oven,  and 

baste  frequently  to  prevent  it  from  being  hard  and  dry.    Wlien 

it  is  of  a  light  brown,  cover  with  sheets  of  b\ittered  paper. 

Place  it  on  a  dish ;  add  minced  parsley  to  the  gravy,  which 

should  be  brown.     Cover  the  roast  with  grated  brown  cracker 

16 


170         BOA87  8ADDLB  OF  MUTfON — ^BBOILKD  MITTION. 

and  garnish  at  iutervals  with  chopped  pai-hley  ;  pour  the  grav? 
in  the  dish,  not  over  it.  Mutton  sliould  always  be  perfectly 
done. — Mrs.  S,  1\ 

Boast  Saddle  of    Mutton. 

Trim  the  joint  carefully,  roast  it  at  a  brisk,  clear  fire ;  baste 
frequently,  and  when  done  dredge  it  plentifully  with  salt,  and 
nerve  with  the  gravy  well  freed  from  fat. 

To  Boil  a  Leo  of  Mutton. 

Make  a  paste  of  flour  quite  plain,  mixed  stiff  with  water,  roll 
out  as  for  a  meat  pudding ;  break  and  turn  in  the  shank  bone ; 
then  cover  the  leg  of  mutton  carefully  with  the  paste ;  tie  up 
tight  in  a  well- floured  cloth.  Have  ready  sufficient  boiling 
water,  place  in  the  joint,  allow  ten  minutes  for  checking  the 
boiling,  and  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat.  Carefully 
i-emove  the  paste,  which  can  be  done  by  one  cut  longitudinally 
and  one  cut  across.     Strain  the  gravy  and  serve  as  usual. 

Boiled  Leo  of  Mutton. 

Dip  a  cloth  in  hot  water,  tie  up  the  mutton  and  put  in  boil- 
ing water.  Boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  or  longer,  if  not  kept 
constantly  boiling. — Mrs.  R. 

Bkoiled   Mutton. 

After  a  leg  of  mutton  has  been  washed  and  wi}XHl  dry,  place 
in  a  cloth  that  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water.  Roll  it  up,  pin 
and  tie  securely ;  put  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  simmer 
sf)vei*al  hours,  removing  the  scum  that  rises  when  it  first  begins 
CD  boil.  If  a  small  leg  of  mutton,  it  will  require  a  shorter  time 
to  cook  than  a  large  one.  Just  before  it  is  done,  add  enough  salt 
to  season  it  properly,  half  an  onion,  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper.  When  this  has  properly  seasoned  the  meat,  take 
from  the  fire,  uuwi*ap  and  drain.  Serve  with  drawn  butter, 
adding  capers  or  nasturtium  seed,  or  if  you  have  neither,  use 


TO  OOOK  A  BADDIiB  OF  HUnON — TO  OOBN  KUTTOK.      171 

chopped  sour  pickle  instead.     Mutton  should  always  be  served 
with  cai>er  sauce,  if  possible. — Mtb.  S.  T. 

To  Cook  a  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Meals  are  all  better  for  being  kept  a  day  or  two  before  cook- 
ing, particularly  mutton.  If  the  mutton  be  tender,  do  not  boil  it, 
but  put  it  in  a  pan  of  water,  set  it  on  the  stove,  and  cook 
slowly,  basting  constantly  with  the  gravy  or  water  in  the  pan ; 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Just  before  it  is  done,  put  some 
scraped  horseradish  over  it,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  the 
same ;  add  a  little  ground  mustard  and  grated  bread  or  cracker ; 
pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and  grate  bread  over,  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  Tliis  is  for  cold  mutton.  All  meats  are  better  for  roast- 
ing before  a  fire  than  in  a  stove. — Mrs.  P.  Wl 

Saddle  of  Mutton. 

This  should  be  covered  witli  paper,  and  carefully  roasted  or 
baked.  Season  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  garnish  with 
horseradish. 

Iced  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Reserve  the  drippings  from  the  meat  when  it  is  roasting. 
After  the  saddle  is  nicely  cooked,  let  it  get  cold.  Then  take 
the  white  pai*t  of  the  gravy  and  melt  it  to  the  consistency  of 
cream.  Pour  this  over  the  saddle  until  it  is  covered  with  a 
white  coat ;  if  it  appears  rough,  warm  an  iron  spoon  and  pass 
over  it  until  it  is  smooth.  Place  it  on  a  dish,  and  dross  the 
dish  all  round  with  vegetable  flowers  and  curled  parsley,  using 
the  parsley  to  oi*nament  the  saddle  also. — Jdrs.  Judge  S, 

To  Corn  Mutton. 

Mutton  being  less  apt  to  keep  than  other  meat^  it  is  well, 
when  you  have  an  over-supply,  to  com  it  exactly  as  you  would 
com  hee{.—Mi$8  R.  S. 


173      bhouldbb  of  mutton  oobnsd — ^icutron  chop. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  Cobnbd. 

Take  a  small  shoulder  of  mutton,  rub  it  with 

2  ounces  salt. 

2  ounces  sugar. 

^  ounce  saltpetre. 

Atler  twenty-four  hours,  rub  it  again  with  the  pickle;  next 

day  boil  this  in  paste  like  the  leg  of  mutton.     Serve  smothered 

in  onion  sauce. 

Mutton  Chop. 

Get  from  your  butcher  nicely  shaped  mutton  chops,  not  too 
long.  Put  them  into  a  pan  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  barely 
enough  water  to  cover  them. 

Cover  dose  and  simmer  till  done ;  drain,  wipe  dry ;  pepper, 
salt  and  butter  them ;  with  a  spoon,  cover  with  an  egg  beaten 
stiff.  Sift  over  pounded  crackers.  Put  in  a  pan  and  set  in  an 
oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Mutton  Chops  dressed  with  Tohatobs. 

Place  in  a  pan  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped;  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  sugar,  and  salt. 

Take  from  your  gridiron  some  nicely  broiled  mutton  chops ; 
put  into  a  pan,  cover  close,  and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Lay  the  chops  on  a  hot  dish,  put  on  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt. 

With  a  spoon,  cover  each  chop  with  tomatoes.  Sift  over 
pounded  cracker  and  serve. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Mutton  Chop. 

Cut  the  steaks ;  pepper  and  salt  them.  Broil  them  lightly 
on  both  sides ;  take  them  off  the  gridiron,  lay  them  on  a  spider. 
Slico  up  one  large  onion  and  stew  until  it  becomes  tender ;  put 
a  layer  between  each  chop  and  stew  until  they  become  tender. 
Take  out  the  steaks,  cover  them  closely  or  tilt  the  gravy  to  the 
side  of  the  vessel,  till  it  is  brown ;  stir  in  a  lump  of  butter,— 
Mrs.  A.  P. 


mJTTON  OHOP — ^MUTTON   8TBW.  178 

Mutton   Chop, 

MoBhroom  catfiup  is  a  nice  flavoring.  Put  pepper  and  salt 
on  the  chops  and  lay  them  in  melted  butter ;  when  they  have 
imbibed  sufficient,  take  out  and  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs 
and  broil. — Jlfra,  H. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops. 

Beat  the  mutton  chops  till  tender ;  then  trim,  making  them 
of  uniform  size  and  shape ;  pour  on  them  boiling  water.  Lk)t 
them  remain  in  it  a  minute,  dry  them  and  rub  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  fresh  butter.  Lay  on  a  giidiron  over  hot  coals,  alwayn 
remembeiing  to  cover  them  while  broiling.  Turn  them,  and  as 
soon  as  nicely  browned  place  in  a  hot  dish,  pepper  again,  pour 
over  them  melted  butter,  and  serve. — Mrs.  J3.  T, 

Mutton  Stbw. 
Cut  slices  of  rare  mutton  and  put  on  to  stew  in  a  little  water ; 
when  nearly  done  put  in — 

I  teacup  of  sweet  pickle  vinegar. 

3  large  spoonfuls  jelly. 

A  little  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard. 

^  teacup  of  walnut  catsup. 

Butter  size  of  an  Qgg. 
Stew  slowly  a  short  time. — Mrs.  F,  2>. 

Mutton  Stew. 

Slice  cold  mutton  or  lamb,  lay  it  in  a  baking  dish ;  put  iii-^ 
1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
I  teaspoonful  red  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  celery-seed,  pounded. 

Bather  more  than  1  teaspoonful  each  of  pounded  cloves,  dn 
namon  and  mace. 
1  teacup  of  yellow  pickle  vinegar. 
1  glassful  wine. 


174        GRILLED  8LIOR8  OF  MUTTON — ^TO  BO  AST  LAICB. 

Slice  up  a  little  yellow  pickled  cucumber,  sugar  to  taste,  one- 
quarter  pound  butter,  one  roll  of  light  bread  broken  in  smal] 
pieces  or  cut  in  little  slicesi  and  toasted  before  used. 

In  prepaiiug  this  dish  put  a  layer  of  the  meat  and  seasonings 
alternately. 

The  peppers,  celery-seed,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  mace  must  all 
be  pounded  fine. — Mrs,  C. 

Grilled  Slices  of  Mutton. 

Cut  some  rather  thick  slices  of  underdone  cold  mutton,  score 
them  well  and  rub  in  plentifully  some  common  mustard,  salt, 
and  cayenne  pepper;  then  broil  them  over  a  clear  fii*e,  and 
serve  with  onion  sauce. 

Sheep's  Tokques. 

Boil  them  till  the  skin  can  be  taken  off;  split  them,  and  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  some  gravy,  parsley,  mushrooms,  and 
one  minced  shallot,  and  some  butter,  some  pepper,  and  salt. 

Stew  till  tender,  and  strain  the  gravy  over  them ;  or  they 
iQBJ  be  glazed  and  served  with  the  gravy  under  them.  Sheep's 
tongues  may  also  be  skinned,  larded,  braised,  and  glazed ;  and 
served  with  onion  sauce. 

To  Boast  Lamb. 

The  hind  quarter  is  the  nicest  piece  for  roasting.  Drop  it  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water ;  boil  half  an  hour,  put  it  in  a  pan,  dredge 
it  with  lard,  pepper,  flour,  a  little  salt ;  skim  the  top  of  the 
water  in  which  it  is  boiled,  and  pour  over  it ;  as  soon  as  the 
gravy  accumulates  in  the  pan  keep  it  basted  frequently  to  pre- 
rent  it  from  being  hard  and  dry.  Lamb  should  be  ccoked  done 
to  be  good. — Mrs,  P,  Wi 

To  Grill  a  Shoulder  of  Lamb. 

Half  boil  it,  score  and  cover  it  with  egg,  crumbs,  and  panley 
seasoned  as  for  cutlets      Broil  it  over  a  very  clear,  slow  fire,  ox 


lamb's    HBA.D   FRIOA88SB — ^LAMb'b   HEAD.  175 

put  it  ill  H  Dntch  oven  to  brown  it;  serve  with  any  sauce  that 
is  liked.     A  breast  of  lamb  is  often  grilled  in  the  same  way. 

Lamb's  Head  to  Fricassee. 

Parboil  the  head  and  haslet  (the  liver  excepted)  ;  cut  Ihe 

meat  in  slices  from  the  head ;  slice  the  heart,  tongue,  etc.,  and 

fricassee  as  for  chicken.     Have  the  liver  fried  in  slices  with  the 

sweetbreads  and  slices  of  bacon  alid  bunches  of  parsley.     Pour 

the  fricassee  into  the  dish,  and  garnish  witli  the  fried  pieces.— 

Mrs.  R, 

Lamb's  Head. 

Boil  the  head  and  liver,  but  so  as  not  to  let  the  liver  be  too 
much  done.  Take  up  the  head,  split  it  through  the  bone,  which 
must  remain  with  the  meat  on.  Cut  the  meat  across  and 
across  with  a  knife,  grate  some  nutmeg  on  it  and  lay  it  on  a 
dish  before  a  good  fire ;  then  throw  over  it  some  grated  bread 
crumbs,  some  sweet  herbs,  some  allspice,  a  little  lemon  peel 
chopped  fine,  a  very  little  pepper  and  salt.  Baste  it  with 
butter,  and  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it. 

Just  as  it  is  done,  take  one-half  the  liver,  the  lights,  the 
meat,  the  tongue ;  chop  them  small  with  six  or  eight  spoonfuls 
water  or  gravy.  First  shake  some  flour  over  the  meat  and  stew 
it  together;  then  put  in  the  gravy  or  water,  a  good  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  a  little  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  what  runs 
from  the  head  in  the  dish.  Simmer  all  together  a  few  minutes, 
and  add  half  a  spoonful  of  vinegar ;  pour  it  on  the  head.  Lay 
the  head  on  the  centre  of  the  mince-meat;  have  ready  the  other 
half  of  liver,  cut  in  pieces  and  fried  quickly  with  slices  of  bacon 
and  lemon ;  lay  these  around  the  dish  and  serve. — Mrs.  T. 

Decorations  akd  Garnishes  for  Cold  Meats  and  Salads. 

The  day  before  giving  a  dinner  or  evening  entertainment, 
gather  up  medium  and  small  sized  pure  white  and  yellow  tur- 
nips, carrots,  i*ed  and  pink  beets,  the  different  colored  radishes. 
From  these  the  most  beautiful  flowers  can  be  cut ;  camellias, 


176  POULTHY. 

roses,  dahlias,  tulips,  tuberoses,  etc.  No  explicit  directions  can 
be  given  except,  first,  smoothly  to  pare  each  vegetable,  taking 
care  not  to  keep  them  too  near  the  fire,  wliicli  will  cause  them 
to  wilt  and  lose  the  waxy  freshness  which  makes  them  so 
beautiful.  Each  flower  may  be  laid  on  a  cluster  of  gi*een  leavofi 
or  curled  parsley,  and  over  the  cold  meats,  and  around  the  edge 
of  the  dish. 

The  cutting  of  these  flowers  makes  a  charming  and  interest- 
ing pastime  for  the  young  members  of  the  family,  in  the  erea^ 
ing  before. — Mrs.  0.  O. 


•  ♦• 


POULTRY. 

In  summer,  kill  and  dress  the  poultry  the  day  beforehand, 
except  chicken  for  frying,  which  is  not  good  unless  killed  the 
same  day  it  is  eaten. 

The  best  way  to  kill  a  fowl  is  to  tie  it  by  its  legs,  hang  it  up, 
and  then  cut  off  its  neck.  In  this  way,  it  dies  more  quickly, 
suffers  less,  and  bleeds  more  freely. 

It  is  best  to  pick  fowls  dry ;  though,  if  you  are  pressed  fot> 
time,  you  may  facilitate  the  picking  of  chickens,  as  well  as  of 
partridges  and  other  small  birds,  by  putting  them  first  into 
water,  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Then  take  off  the  feathers  carefully, 
so  as  not  to  break  the  skin.  Never  scald  a  turkey,  duck  it 
goose,  ho^  ever,  before  picking. 

To  draw  the  crop,  split  the  skin  of  all  poultry  on  the  back  of 
the  neck.  Pull  the  neck  upward  and  the  skin  downward,  and 
the  crop  can  be  easily  pulled  out.  Then  cut  off  the  neck  close 
to  the  body,  leaving  the  skin  to  skewer  at  the  back  of 'the  neck 
after  the  aressing  has  been  put  in.  Make  an  incision  under 
the  rtimp  lengthwise,  sufficient  to  allow  the  entrails  to  be  easily 
removed.     Be  careful  not  to  break  the  gall,  and  to  preserve  the 


FOULTBT.  171 

liver  whole.  Cut  open  the  gizzard,  take  out  the  inner  skin, 
and  wash  both  carefnllj.  Wash  the  bird  inside  several  times, 
the  last  time  with  salt  and  water.  Some  persons  object  to 
nsing  water  inside  or  outside,  but  I  consider  it  more  cleanly  to 
wash  the  bird  first  and  then  wipe  it  dry  with  a  clean  towel. 
It  should  then  be  hung  with  the  neck  downwards  till  ready  to 
cook. 

The  head,  neck,  and  feet,  after  being  nicely  washed  and  the 
bones  in  them  broken,  should  be  stewed  in  the  gravy,  as  they 
make  it  much  richer. 

It  is  said  that  throwing  chickens  into  cold  water  immediately 
after  they  have  finished  bleeding,  and  allowing  them  to  remaiii 
there  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  will  make  them  delidously  tender, 
which  can  be  accounted  for  scientifically.  Frozen  fowls  or  game 
should  be  thawed  gradually,  by  being  laid  in  cold  water.  If 
cooked  without  being  thawed,  it  will  require  double  time,  and 
they  will  not  be  tender  nor  high-flavored. 

The  tests  by  which  you  may  tell  the  age  of  a  turkey  are 
these.  An  old  turkey  has  rough  and  red  legs,  and  if  a  gobbler, 
long  spurs,  while' young  turkeys  have  black  legs,  and  if  gobblers, 
small  spurs.  The  fatter  they  are  and  the  broader  their  breasts, 
the  better.  When  dressed,  the  skin  should  be  a  yellowish 
white,  and,  if  tender,  you  may  easily  rip  it  with  a  pin.  If, 
when  you  bend  back  the  wings,  the  sinews  give  and  crack, 
this  is  another  test  of  the  turkey  being  young,  and  the  same 
test  will  apply  to  other  fowls.  The  bill  and  feet  of  an  old 
goose  are  red  and  hairy.  A  young  goose  has  pen  feathers  and 
its  flesh  is  whiter  than  that  of  an  old  one. 

If  young,  the  lower  part  of  a  hen's  legs  and  feet  are  soft  and 
smooth,  while  a  young  cock  has  small  spurs.  When  dressed, 
the  flesh  should  be  white  and  the  fat  a  pale  yellow.  Turn  the 
wing  back,  and  if  the  sinews  snap  it  is  a  sign  the  chicken  ia 
young. 

A  few  words  on  the  subject  of  carving  may  not  be  out  of 
place  here.     A  sharp  knife,  with  a  thin  and   well  tempered 


178  BO  AST  Tt'AKKY. 

blade  is  essential  to  good  carving.  In  carving  a  turkoyi  cut  ofi 
first  the  wiug  nearest  to  you,  then  the  leg  and  second  joints 
then  slice  the  breast  till  a  rounded,  ivory-shaped  piece  appears. 
Insert  the  knife  between  that  and  the  bone,  and  separate  them. 
This  part  is  the  nicest  bit  of  the  breast.  Next  comes  the 
merry-thought.  After  this,  turn  over  the  bird  a  little,  and  just 
below  the  breast  you  will  find  the  oyster,  which  you  will  sepa- 
rate as  you  did  the  inner  breast  The  side  bone  lies  beside  the 
rump,  and  the  desired  morsel  can  be  taken  out  without  separat- 
ing the  wliole  bone.  Proceed  with  the  other  side  in  the  sanio 
way.  The  fork  need  not  be  removed  during  the  whole  pi*ocess. 
Chicken  and  partridges  are  carved  in  the  same  way. 

Roast  Turkey. 

Wash  nicely  in  and  out.     Plunge  into  boiling  water  ten  min- 
utes.    Have  ready  a  dressing  of 

Bread  crumbs. 

Hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Minced  parsley,  thyme  and  celery. 
After  rubbing  the  cavity  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put* 
ting  in  a  slice  of  pork  or  bacon,  fill  with  the  above  dressing. 
Do  the  same  also  to  the  crop,  so  as  to  make  the  turkey  look 
plump.  Bub  the  turkey  well  with  butter  and  sprinkle  salt  and 
]>epper  over  it.  Dredge  with  flour.  Lay  in  the  pan  with  a 
slice  of  pork  or  bacon  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Lay  the 
liver  and  gizzard  in  the  pan  with  it.  Put  in  a  hot  oven,  bast- 
ing and  turning  frequently  till  every  part  is  a  beautiful  brown. 
When  the  meat  is  amber  color,  pin  a  buttered  sheet  of  writing 
paper  over  it  to  keep  it  from  becoming  hard  and  dry.  Cook 
three  or  four  hours.  Season  the  gravy  with  minced  parsley  and 
celery  and  serve  with  cranberry  saur^e. — JIfra*  S.  T, 

Hoast  l\irkef\ 
Wash  the  turkey  thoroughly  inside  and  out,  having  romoved 


KOA8T  TUBKBY — BOAST  TURKS V,   WITH   TRUFFLES.      179 

(Le  iBsides.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  soaked  in  cold  water, 
drained  and  mashed  fine,  a  small  piece  of  melted  butter  or 
salt  pork  chopped,  pepper  and  salt,  sweet  herbs,  a  hard  boiled 
egg,  chopped  fine. 

Anjr  kind  of  cooked  meat  is  good,  minced  fine  and  added  to 
the  dressing.  The  body  and  crop  must  be  filled  with  the  dress- 
ing and  sewed  up.  The  giblets  ought  to  be  boiled  tender,  if 
they  are  to  be  used.  Use  the  water  i)i  which  they  are  boiled, 
for  gravy,  adding  a  little  of  the  turkey  drippings,  seasoning 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs,  and  thickening  with  a  little 
flonr  and  water,  mixed  smoothly.     Place  where  it  will  boil. 

When  the  fowl  is  put  on  to  roast,  put  a  little  water  into  the 
drippiug-pan.  At  first  it  should  be  roasted  slowly  and  basted 
frequently.  Tie  up  the  wings  and  legs  before  roasting,  aud  rub 
on  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Servo  with  drawn  butter. — Mrs,  W. 

Roa8t  Turkey, 

Put  the  gizzard,  heart  and  liver  in  cold  water  and  boil  till 
tender.  When  done,  chop  fine  and  add  stale  bread,  gi-ated,  salt 
and  pepi)er,  sweet  herbs,  if  liked,  two  eggs  well  beaten. 

Fill  the  turkey  with  this  dressing,  sew  the  openings,  drawing 
the  skin  tightly  together.  Put  a  little  butter  over  the  turkey 
and  lay  it  upon  the  grate  of  your  meat-pan.  Cover  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  well  with  boiling  water.  In  half  an  hour,  baste  the 
turkey  by  pouring  over  it  the  gravy  that  has  begun  to  form  in 
the  pan.  Repeat  this  basting  every  fifteen  minutes.  In  an 
oven  of  average  temperature,  a  twelve-pound  turkey  will  re- 
quire at  least  three  houra'  cooking. — Mrs,  A,  2>. 

Roast  Turkey,  with  Truffles. 

Trufiies  must  be  peeled,  chopped  aud  pounded  in  a  mortar ; 
one  and  a  half  pound  will  do  for  one  turkey.  Rasp  the  same 
amount  of  fat  bacon  and  mix  with  the  truffles  and  stuff  the 
turkey  with  it.  This  dressing  is  usually  plac(Kl  in  the  turkey 
two  days  beforehand,  to  impart  its  flavor  to  the  fowl.     Lay 


180  BOILED  TUBKEY — TO  8TBAM  A   TURKEY. 

tbin  slices  of  fat  bacon  over  the  breast  of  the  tarkey,  cover  it 
with  half  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  and  roast  two  hours.  Chest- 
nuts dressed  in  the  same  way  as  truffles  are  found  an  excellent 
substitute.— -3fr«.  S,  O. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Wash  well  with  cold  water,  then  put  on  in  milk-warm  water, 
either  tied  in  a  coarse  cloth  dredged  with  flour  or  with  a  half- 
pound  of  rige  in  the  water.  Keep  well  under  water,  and  boil 
slowly  three  hours,  adding  salt  just  before  it  is  done.  When 
perfectly  done  and  tender,  take  out  of  the  pot,  sprinkle  in  the 
cavity  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  with  oysters  stewed  just 
enough  to  plump  them,  and  season,  with  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  vinegar.  Place  in  a  dish  and  set  in  a  steamer  to  keep  hot. 
Strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  oysters  were  scalded,  add  drawn 
butter,  chopped  celery,  pai-sley  and  thyme;  pour  over  the  turkey, 
and  serve.  If  not  convenient  to  use  oysters,  use  egg  and  butter 
sauce.     Garnish  with  sliced  lemons. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

JBoUed  Turkey. 

Prepare  the  turkey  as  for  roasting.  Tie  it  in  a  cloth  or  boil 
rice  in  the  pot  with  it,  if  you  wish  it  to  look  white.  It  is  im- 
proved by  boiling  a  pound  or  two  of  salt  pork  with  it.  If  soup 
is  made  of  the  liquor,  let  it  stand  till  next  day  and  skim  the 
fat.     Season  after  heating. — Mrs,  W, 

To  Steam  a  Turkey. 

Kub  butter,  pepper  and  salt  inside  the  turkey  afber  it  has 
been  well  washed,  fill  with  oysters,  sew  up,  lay  in  a  dish  and  set 
in  a  steamer  placed  over  boiling  water.  Cover  closely  and 
steam  from  two  hours  to  two  and  a  half.  Take  up,  strain  the 
gravy  which  will  be  found  in  the  dish.  Have  an  oyster  sauce 
ready,  prepared  like  stewed  oysters,  and  pour  into  it  this  gravy 
thickened  with  a  little  butter  and  flour.  Let  it  come  to  a  boi- 
and  whiten   with  a  little  boiled  cream.     Pour  tliis  over  the 


TUBKBY  HAfiH — ^BONED  TUBKSY.  181 

Bteained  turkey  and  send  to  the  table  hot.     Garnish  with  sliced 
lemons. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Turkey  Hash. 

Cut  up  the  meat  very  fine.  Stew  tlie  bones  in  a  little  water, 
then  stir  into  this  water  the  meat,  adding  a  large  tablespoonfal 
butter,  a  cup  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
thyme  or  celery  (or  else  a  very  few  celery-seeds).  Stew  all 
together. — Mrs,  JR. 

Devilled  Turkey. 

Place  the  legs  and  wings  (jointed)  on  a  gridiron.  Broil 
dowly.     Have  ready  a  sauce  made  of — 

1  tablespoon ful  pepper  vinegar. 
1  tablespoonful  made  mustard. 
1  tablespoonful  celery  sauce. 
1  tablespoonful  acid  fruit  jelly. 
A.  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Lay  the  broiled  turkey  on  a  hot  dish.     Pour  the  dressing 
and  sift  pounded  cracker  over  it. — Mrs.  S,  T, 

Potato  Stuffing  for  Turkeys  and  other  Fowls. 

Mash  smoothly  six  good -sized  boiled  Irish  potatoes.  Chop  a 
small  onion  very  fine  and  fry  a  light  brown,  in  a  frying-pan, 
with  a  dessertspoonful  lard.  Then  add  the  potatoes  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut.  To  this 
add  one  well  beaten  egg,,  stirring  till  perfectly  dry.  If  for  geese 
or  ducks,  add  a  little  sifted  sage  and  a  small  quantity  of  red 
pepper. — Mrs.  McQ. 

Boned  Turkey. 

The  turkey  must  be  full  grown,  modei*ately  fat,  and  picked 
dry.  Do  not  remove  the  entrails.  Cut  off  the  neck  about  one 
inch  from  the  body.  Take  off  the  wings  above  the  second  joint 
and  cut  off  the  legs  as  usual.  With  a  shai^p  pointed  knife, 
split  the  sldn  from  the  end  of  the  neck  to  the  i*ump.  Bun  the 
knife  between  the  bones  and  flesh  on  one  side,  till  you  come  to 


182  BONED  TUSKE7. 

where  the  wing  and  leg  join  the  body.  Twist  the  wing  and 
raise  it,  cracking  the  joint.  Separate  it  from  the  body.  Then 
proceed  with  the  leg  in  the  same  way,  on  the  same  side.  Run 
the  knife  between  the  bones  and  flesh  till  you  reach  the  breast 
bone.  Repeat  this  on  the  other  side.  Take  out  the  craw. 
Carefully  run  a  sharp  knife  under  the  rump,  detaching  it  from 
the  bone  without  cutting  the  skin,  as  it  must  come  off  with  the 
flesh.  Hold  the  turkey  by  the  neck  and  pull  the  skin  carefully 
down,  until  the  upper  part  of  the  breast  bone  is  uncovered. 
Cut  the  flesh  from  the  bone  on  both  sides,  till  the  end  of  the 
bone  is  nearly  i^eached.  The  turkey  must  now  be  laid  on  the 
back  and  held  by  the  neck,  the  front  of  the  turkey  being  toward 
3'ou.  Take  hold  of  the  skin  of  the  neck  with  the  left  hand, 
pulling  downwai'ds  with  a  knife  in  the  right  hand,  separate  the 
skin  from  the  end  of  the  bone.  The  whole  of  the  turkey  is  now 
detached  from  the  carcass.  Lay  it  on  a  table  with  the  skin 
down.  Pull  the  bones  from  the  wings  and  legs,  first  running 
the  knife  around  so  as  to  leave  the  flesh.  Pull  out  all  the  ten- 
dons of  the  legs.  Push  them  and  the  wings  inside.  Cut  off 
the  ring  under  the  rump.  All  this  must  be  done  slowly  and 
carefully.  Have  ready  a  half-dozen  slices  of  salt  pork,  and  a 
salad  made  of  slioat,  veal  or  lamb,  chopped  and  seasoned,  as 
turkey  salad,  with  celery,  etc.  Mix  with  this  salad  three  or 
four  large  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  with  a  spoonful  of 
butter.  Now  lay  the  turkoy  ou  the  table,  inside  up  and  the 
neck  from  you  ;  pejjper  and  salt  it ;  lay  three  or  four  slices  of 
pork  on  it,  then  a  layer  of  the  salad ;  pork  again  and  salad 
alternately  until  filled ;  draw  the  two  sides  together  and  sew 
it  up,  giving  it  as  near  as  possible  its  proper  shape.  Sew  it  up 
carefully  in  a  cloth,  place  in  a  kettle  of  the  proper  shape, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  adding  the  broken  bones,  three  pounds 
fresh  lean  beef,  parsley,  vhyme,  onions  and  two  dozen  whole 
black  peppercorns,  with  salt  to  the  taste.  Simmer  three  houra, 
then  tnke  it  from  the  water  and  remove  the  towel.  Carefully 
remove  all  discolorations  and  settliugs  of  the  water  from  the 


MKAT  JELLY  FOR  BONED  TUBKEY.         188 

fcarkej.  Scald  a  clean  cloth,  wrap  it  up  again ;  pla  ;e  it  on  ita 
back,  put  a  dish  over  it  with  a  weight  on  it  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place  till  next  day.  Unwrap  and  remove  the  twine  with  which 
it  was  sewed.  Glaze  it  with  a  little  meat  jelly ;  just  before 
the  jelly  congeals  sift  over  a  little  cracker  browned  and 
pounded ;  decorate  with  meat  jelly  and  serve.  Directions  for 
preparing  meat  jelly  follow. — Mr8.  S,  T. 

Meat  Jelly  fob  Boned  Tuekey. 

As  soon  iis  the  water  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled  is  cold, 
take  off  all  the  fat  and  strain  it,  put  it  in  a  porcelain-lined 
kettle ;  two  ounces  gelatine,  three  eggs,  with  shells,  a  wine- 
glass of  sherry,  port  or  madeira  wine ;  stir  well.  Add  one 
quart  of  the  strained  liquor;  beat  rapidly  with  an  egg-beater, 
put  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Simmer  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Sprinkle  in  a  pinch  of  turmeric  and  strain  just  as 
any  other  jelly.  When  congealed  break  it  up  and  place  around 
the  turkey.  Cut  some  in  thick  slices  and  in  fanciful  shapes 
with  paste  cutters.     Place  some  of  these  lozenges  over  the 

turkey  and  border  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  them. — 3fr9, 
8.  T. 

Chickens. 

These,  whether  for  boiling  or  roasting,  should  have  a  dress- 
ing prepared  as  for  turkeys.  Six  spoonfuls  of  rice  boiled  with 
the  chickens  will  cause  them  to  look  white.  If  the  water  is  cold 
when  they  are  put  in,  they  will  be  less  liable  to  break.  They 
are  improved  by  boiling  a  little  salt  pork  with  them.  If  not 
thus  boiled,  they  will  need  salt. 

For  broiling,  chickens  should  be  split,  the  inwards  taken  out, 
and  the  chickens  then  washed.  Broil  very  slowly  till  done, 
placing  the  bony  side  down  ;  then  turn  it  and  brown  the  other 
side.     Forty  minutes  is  the  medium  time  for  broiling  a  chickeiL 

For  roast  hicken,  boil  the  gizzard  and  liver  by  themsehos, 
and  use  the  water  for  gi-avy. — Jifrs.  Col.  Wi 


184  roa8t  ghiokf4n ^to  steam  chioken. 

Roast  Chicken. 

Chicken  should  never  be  cooked  the  same  day  it  is  killed. 
Wash  well  with  cold  water,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and 
into  the  cavity.  Bub  the  latter  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fill 
with  a  dressing  made  of  bread  soaked  in  water  and  squeezed 
out,  a  tablespoonful  butter,  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  parsley. 

Rub  the  chicken  well  with  butter.  Sprinkle  pepper  and  salt 
over  it  and  dredge  with  flour.  Lay  it  into  a  pan  with  a  slice  of 
pork  or  bacon  and  a  pint  of  water.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  two 
hours,  basting  and  dredging  frequently.  Turn  the  chicken  so 
each  part  may  be  equally  browned.  Add  chopped  thyme  and 
parsley  to  the  gravy. 

Some  persons  think  ground  ginger  a  moro  delicate  flavoring 
for  the  dressing  than  pepper. — Mr8»  S.  T, 

To  Boil  Chicken. 

Never  boil  the  same  day  the  chicken  is  killed.  Soak  them 
overnight  in  weak  salt  and  water.  Place  in  a  kettle  of  water, 
with  a  handful  of  rice  and  a  little  milk  to  make  the  chicken 
white.  Simmer  slowly  two  or  three  houi*s,  removing  the  scum 
that  rises  when  the  chicken  first  begins  to  boil.  Keep  under 
the  water,  with  an  inverted  deep  plate.  Just  before  taking  off 
the  fire,  add  salt  to  the  taste.  Lay  on  a  hot  dish  near  the  fire. 
Skim  off  the  fat  from  the  top  of  the  liquor,  strain  it  and  add 
chopped  celery,  parsley  and  thyme,  drawn  butt«r,  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt,  or,  if  preferred,  six  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Steam  Chicken. 

Soak  two  hours,  in  salt  and  water,  a  fat  young  pullet.  Drain 
and  dry.  Hub  in  the  cavity  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  a  large 
lump  of  butter.  Fill  with  large,  plump  oystet*s,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  sew  up.  Lay  the  chicken  on  a  dish  or  pan, 
and  set  it  inside  a  steamer,  which  close  and  keep  over  boiling 
water  four  horn's.     When  thoroughly  done,  lay  on  a  dish  and 


BMOTHSBBD  OHIOKRN — ^STEWED  OHIOKEN.  185 

pofor  over  it  drawn  batter  or  celery  sauce.     Garnish  with  curled 
paislejr)  and  serve. — Mrs,  8.  T. 

Smothsbkd  Chicksn. 

Kill  the  day  before  it  is  smothered.  Split  open  the  back,  as 
if  to  broil.  When  ready  to  cook,  wipe  dry  with  a  clean  towel, 
rub  well  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put 
in  a  pan  with  a  slice  of  bacon  or  pork  and  a  pint  of  water. 
Simmer  an  hour  or  more,  basting  frequently.  When  thoroughly 
done,  place  on  a  hot  dish. 

Stir  into  the  gravy  remaining  on  the  fire  a  beaten  egg,  mixing 
it  carefully.  Pour  this  into  the  dish,  but  not  on  the  chicken. 
Sift  over  it  cracker,  first  browned  and  then  pounded.  Garnish 
with  parsley,  and  serve, — Mr:  S,  T. 

Stbwed  Ohickbn. 

Out  up  the  chicken  as  if  to  fry,  adding  the  prepared  head 
and  feet.  Soak  in  weak  salt  and  water.  If  for  dinner,  do  this 
immediately  after  breakfast. 

An  hour  and  a  half  before  dinner,  put  in  a  saucepan,  cover- 
ing well  with  water.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  for  one  hour.  Take 
it  out  with  a  fork  and  lay  in  a  bowl.  Add  a  teacup  milk  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  black  pepper  to  the  liquor.  Let  it  boil  up 
and  strain  on  the  chicken.  Binse  the  saucepan  and  return  all 
to  the  fire.  Beat  one  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one 
of  milk  until  quite  smooth.  Mince  some  parsley,  thyme,  and  a 
very  little  onion,  and  stir  all  into  the  saucepan.  Then  put  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Stir  around  and  pour  into  a  dish 
in  which  small  pieces  of  toast  have  been  neatly  arranged.  Gar- 
nish with  curled  parsley. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Stewed  Chicken. 

Cut  up  and  lay  in  salt  and  water.     Put  them  in  water 

enough  to  cover  them,  with  some  slices  of  middling.     Let  them 

boil  till  nearly  done.    Then  put  in  the  dumplings,  made  like 

16 


1S6   FKIED  OHIOKICN — TO  DKBS8  0HI0KEN8  WITH  TOMATOES. 

biscuit  but  rolled  thin,  and  let  them  boil  till  done.  Koll  a 
piece  of  butter  in  flour,  with  pepper,  salt,  chopped  parsley  and 
celery,  or  a  little  celeiy-seod.  When  the  gravy  is  thick  enough, 
pour  in  a  teacup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  let  it  boil  up  once. 
Take  off  the  fire  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Col.  W. 

Fried  Chicken. 

This  dish  is  best  when  the  chicken  is  killed  the  same  day  it 

is  fried.     Cut  off  the  wings  and  legs,  cut  the  breast  in  two,  and 

also  the  back.     Wash  well  and  throw  in  weak  salt  and  water, 

to  extract  the  blood.     Let  it  remain  for  half  an  hour  or  more. 

Take  from  the  water,  drain  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel,  half  an 

hour  before  dinner.     Lay  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 

it,  and  sift  flour  thickly  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other, 

letting  it  remain  long  enough  for  the  flour  to  stick  well.     Have 

ready  on  the  frying-pan  some  hot  lard,  in  which  lay  each  piece 

carefully,  not  forgetting  the  liver  and  gizzard.     Cover  closely 

and  fry  till  a  fine  amber  color.     Then  turn  over  each  piece  and 

cover  well  again,  taking  care  to  have  the  cliicken  well  done, 

yet  not  scorched.     Take  the  chicken  up  and  lay  in  a  hot  dish 

near  the  fire.     Pour  into  the  gravy  a  teacup  of  milk,  a  teaspoon- 

ful  of  butter,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  one  of  pepper.      Let  it 

boil  up  and  pour  into  the  dish,  but  not  over  the  chicken.     Put 

curled  parsley  round  the  edge  of  the  dish  and  serve. — Mtb. 
S.  T. 

J^Hed  Chicken. 

Kill  the  chicken  the  night  before,  if  you  can,  and  lay  on  ice, 
or  else  kill  early  in  the  morning.  When  ready,  wipe  dry,  floui 
it,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  a  little  lard.  When  nearly 
done,  pour  off  the  lard,  add  one-half  teacup  water,  large  spoon- 
ful butter,  and  some  chopped  parsley.  Brown  nicely  and 
serve.  Meal  mush  fried  is  nice  with  the  chicken. — Mr9. 
Col.  W. 

To  Dress  Chickens  with  Tomatobr. 

Fry  till  a  light  brown.     Then  add  some  tomatces,  cut  in 


TO  FBI0AB8BB  CHICKEN — CHICKEN  ME.  187 

small  pieces,  with  the  juioe.  Strain  the  tomatoes  from  the  seed, 
season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  sugar,  and  let  them  stew. 
— ilfr*.  J.  B.  D. 

To  Fricassee  Chicken. 

Wasli  and  joint  the  chicken ;  place  the  pieces  in  a  stew-pau 

«rith  the  skin  side  down.     Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  each 

piece.     Add  three  or  four  slices  of  pork,  stew  till  tender,  take 

them  out  and  thicken  the  liquor  with  flour,  and  add  a  piece  of 

hutter  the  size  of  a  hen^s  egg.     Replace  the  chicken  in  the  pan 

and  let  it  stew  five  minutes  longer.     When  it  is  taken  up,  soak 

in  the  gravy  some  pieces  of  toast,  put  them  on  plates  and  lay 

the  chicken  on  the  toast,  pouring  the  gravy  over  it.     To  hrown 

the  chicken,  stew  till  tender,  without  the  pork ;  brown  the  pork, 

take  that  up,  then  put  in  the  chicken  and  fry  a  light  brown. — 

Mrs.  Col,  W. 

To  Broil  Chicken. 

Kill  the  chicken  the  day  before  using,  split  open  in  the  back, 
nicely  clean,  and,  if  the  weather  is  warm,  slightly  sprinkle 
with  salt.  If  for  breakfast,  half  an  hour  }>efore  press  between 
the  folds  of  a  clean  towel  till  ih-y,  grease  well  with  fresh  butter, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and  lay  on  a  gridiron,  over  hot 
coals,  with  the  inside  of  the  chicken  down.  Let  it  cook  prin- 
cipally from  this  side,  but  turn  often  till  the  outside  of  the 
chicken  is  of  a  bright,  yellow  brown.  When  thoroughly  done, 
pour  over  it  melted  butter,  sprinkle  pepper,  and  sift  pounded 
or  grated  cracker. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

Chicken   Pie. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  place  in  a  deep  oven  with  one  largo 
spoonful  of  lard.  Let  it  brown  a  little  and  add  one  onion,  pars- 
ley, thyme,  sage  and  black  pepper,  to  suit  the  taste.  Pour  on 
it  a  cupful  boiling  water,  stir  well  and  let  it  simmer  till  weU 
cooked.     Just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  rub  together : 

I  cup  cream. 

1  spoonful  butter. 


188      OHIOKBN  FIB— OHIOKEK  PUDDIKG  WITH  FOTATOSB. 

Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs. 
1  grated  nutmeg  and  other  spices  to  the  taste. 
Stir  well  and  pour  in  a  pan  lined  with  a  paste. — Mrs.  A.  G. 

Chicken  Pie, 

Make  into  a  paste  one  quart  of  flour  with  the  weight  of  four 
eggs  in  butter  and  a  large  spoonful  of  lard.  Put  the  paste  in  a 
deep  dishy  lining  the  bottom  and  side  writh  chicken  interspersed 
with  layers  of  very  thin  bacon.  Add  some  large  crumbs, 
some  pepper,  and  a  quarter-pound  butter.  Fill  the  dish  with 
cold  water,  and  yolks  of  four  or  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  then 
dredge  with  flour  and  put  on  the  top  crust.  Let  it  bake  gradu- 
ally.    It  wiU  take  two  hours  to  bake. — Mrs.  Ccl,  W, 

Chicken  Pudding. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  stew  it  a  little,  afber  which  lay  tho 
pieces  in  a  buttered  dish  with  a  few  bits  of  butter,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  of  the  water  in  which  the  chicken 
was  btewed. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  milk,  Ave  eggs,  a  little  salt. 

Pour  this  batter  over  the  chicken,  and  bake  half  an  hour. — 

JUrs,  A.  JB, 

Chicken  Pudding. 

10  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

1  quart  rich  milk. 

^  pound  melted  butter. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin,  good  batter.  Put  four 
young  chickens,  nicely  prepared  and  jointed,  in  a  saucepan,  with 
some  salt  and  water  and  a  bundle  of  thyme  or  parsley.  Boil 
till  nicely  done,  then  take  up  the  chickens  and  put  in  the 
batter.  Put  all  in  a  deep  dish  and  bake.  Serve  with  gravy  in 
a  boat. — Mrs.  Dr,  C. 

Chicken  Puddino  with  Potatoes. 
Cut  up  a  young  chicken  as  if  to  fry,  and  parboil  it     Boil  and 


TO  BOABT  0008B — DEVILLED   OOOSE.  ISO 

mash  Irish  potatoes.  Beat  up  three  or  four  eggs,  add  to  the 
potatoes,  and  thin  ^ith  milk.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  stir  in  the  chicken,  and  bake  it. 

Boiled  rice  is  a  good  substitute  for  potatoes. — Mrs.  JS.  "W. 

17.  B. — Most  of  the  recipes  given  for  turkey  apply  to  pea- 
fowl, and  most  of  those  given  for  chicken  may  be  used  for 
guinea  fowl. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Roast  Goose. 

A  goose  must  never  be  eaten  the  same  day  it  is  killed.  If 
the  weather  is  cold,  it  should  be  kept  a  week  before  using. 
Before  cooking  let  it  lie  several  hours  in  weak  salt  and  water, 
to  remove  the  strong  taste.  Then  plunge  it  in  boiling  water, 
lor  five  minutes,  if  old.    Fill  the  goose  with  a  dressing  made  of: 

Mealy  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 

A  small  lump  of  butter. 

A  little  salt  or  fresh  pork  chopped  fine. 

A  little  minced  onion. 

Parsley,  thyme,  and  a  pinch  of  chopped  or  powdered  sage. 

Grease  with  sweet  lard  or  butter.  Lay  in  a  pan  with  the 
giblets,  neck,  etc.  Pour  in  two  teacups  of  boiling  water, 
set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  baste  frequently.  Turn  so  that  every 
part  may  be  equally  browned.  Serve  with  gravy  or  onion 
sauce. 

The  above  recipe  will  answer  equally  as  well  for  duck. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

Devilled  Goose. 

Plunge  the  goose  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  remain 
half  an  hour.     Fill  with  a  stuffing  made  of: 

Mashed  Irish  potatoes,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  butter,  minced 
onions,,  sago,  parsley  and  thyme,  half  a  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

Place  it  in  a  pan  with  a  slice  of  fat  pork  and  a  pint  of  broth 
or  liquor  in  which  any  kind  of  meat  has  been  boiled. 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar,  celery  vinegar,  made 


190        TO  FBEPARB  TOUNO  DUGKB — SALADS. 

mustard,  and  one  of  add  fruit  jelly.  Butter  the  breast  of  the 
goose  and  pour  this  mixture  over  it,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to 
tbo  taste. 

Place  in  a  hot  oven,  dredge  with  flour  and  baste  frecjuently 
till  done ;  when  serve  with  its  own  gravy.  This  receipt  will 
answer  equally  as  well  for  wild  goose. — Mrs.  8.  T, 

To   Prepare  Young  Ducks. 

Kill  and  hang  to  drain.  Plunge,  one  at  a  time,  in  boiling 
water,  then  immediately  in  cold  water,  which  makes  them  easier 
to  pick.  Kill  some  days  before  using,  or  if  obliged  to  use  them 
the  same  day  as  killed,  they  are  better  roasted. — Mrs.  H. 

To  Stew  Ducks. 

Truss  the  ducks  and  stuff  them  with  bread,  butter,  and  onion. 
Flour  them  and  brown  them  in  lard.  Have  prepared  slips  of 
bacon,  giblets,  onion,  water,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  clove  or 
mace,  if  you  like.  Put  in  the  ducks  and  let  them  stew  gently 
but  constantly  for  two  hours.  Then  add  the  juice  of  green 
grapes  or  of  a  lemon,  or  else  a  little  lemon  pickle.  Flour  the 
ducks  each  time  you  turn  them,  and  thicken  with  butter  ix)lled 
in  flour. — Mrs.  Col.  W. 


SALADS. 

In  making  salads,  be  careful  to  add  the  vinegar  last.  Wliere 
oil  cannot  be  obtained,  fresh  butter,  drawn  or  melted,  is  an 
excellent  substitute  and  is  indeed  preferred  to  oil  by  some  per- 
sons, epicureans  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  Always 
use  good  cider  vinegar  in  making  salads,  as  chemical  vinegar  i*i 
sometimes  very  unwholesome.  Much  depends  on  the  rotation 
in  which  you  mix  the  ingredients  for  a  salad,  so  I  would  call 


0T8TEB  SALAD — SALMON  AND   LOBSTER  SALAD.    lOl 

particniar  attention  to  the  directions  given  on  this  point  on  the 
sabsequent  pages. 

Oyster  Salad, 

^  gallon  fresh  oysters. 

The  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs. 

1  raw  egg,  well  whipped. 

2  large  spoonfuls  salad  oil  or  melted  butter. 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper. 
2  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard. 

1  teacup  good  vinegar. 

2  good  sized  pickled  cucumbers,  cut  up  fine. 

Nearly  as  much  ce  '^*  as  oysters,  cut  up  into  small  dice. 

Drain  the  liquor  fro.  the  oysters  and  throw  them  into  some 
hot  vinegar  on  the  fire  ;  let  them  remain  until  they  are  plwmp, 
not  cooked.  Then  put  them  at  once  into  clear  cold  water ; 
this  gives  them  a  nice  plump  look  and  they  will  not  then  shrink 
and  look  small.  Di'uin  the  water  from  them  and  set  them  away 
in  a  cool  place,  and  prepare  your  dressing.  Mash  the  yolks  as 
fine  as  you  can  and  rub  into  it  the  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard, 
then  rub  the  oil  in,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  When  it  is  all 
smooth,  add  the  beaten  egg,  and  then  the  vinegar,  a  spoonful  at 
a  time.  Set  aside.  Mix  oysters,  celery,  and  pickle,  tossing  up 
well  with  a  silver  fork.  Sprinkle  in  salt  to  your  taste.  Then 
pour  dressing  over  all. — Mrs.  E.  P,  G. 

Salhok  and  Lobster  Salad. 

If  the  salmon  salad  is  made  of  the  fish  preserved  in  cans, 
drain  it  from  the  oil  and  mince  the  meat  fine.  Cut  up  one 
third  as  miich  lettuce  or  celery. 

For  one  box  of  salmon,  boil  four  eggs  hard ;  lay  them  in  cold 
water  a  few  minutes,  shell  and  separate  the  whites  from  the 
yolks ;  lay  the  whites  aside.  Mash  the  yolks  smooth  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  sweet  olive  oil  or  one  teacup  sweet  rich  milk  or 


192  LOBSTBB  SALAD-— ^TBRSAPIN  SALAD. 

cream.     The  oil  makes  the  smoothest  and  best  paste.     DissolTe 
in  one  teacup  vinegar, 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaApoonful  salt. 

2  or  more  teaspoonfuls  fine  mustard. 
Pepper  to  the  taste. 

Mix  this  with  the  paste  and  toss  lightly  over  the  meat  with 
tt  silver  fork.  Ornament  the  dish  in  which  it  is  served  with 
the  green  leaves  of  the  celery,  or  with  curled  parsley  and  the 
whites  of  eggs  cut  in  rings. 

Lobster  salad  is  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Take  the  nicest 
parts  of  the  lobster. — Mtb.  G,  G. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Chop  up  one  can  of  lobsters ;  cut  in  small  pieces  as  much 
celery.  Then  cream  with  one  teacup  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
mustard,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  smooth;  stir  in  five 
tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar  (simply  pepper  steeped  in  vine- 
gar and  sweetened  with  a  little  sugar),  and  pour  the  mixture 
over  the  lobster  and  celery. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

Fish  Salad. 

Boil  four  flounders,  or  any  medium  sized  fish ;  when  done, 
take  off  the  skin  and  pick  out  the  bones,  then  shred  very  fine. 
Add  pepper  and  salt,  one  tablespoonful  mixed  mustard,  a  half 
cup  vinegar,  and  half  a  pound  butter,  and  mix  all  well  with 
the  fish.  Put  into  shallow  pans,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  ten 
minutes.  When  cold  put  over  it  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce, 
and  sherry  wine. — J/m  F.  N. 

Terrapin  Salad. 

Boil  them  until  the  shells  will  come  ofiT  easily  and  the  nails 
pull  out ;  then  cut  into  small  pieces  and  carefully  remove  the 
sand-bag  and  gall. 


TUKKBY  SALAD.  193 

To  three  good  sized  terrapins,  take  six  hard-boiled  eggs ;  re- 
move the  yolks  and  rub  into  a  powder  with  half  a  pound  sweet 
butter.  When  creamy  and  light,  add  one  teaspoonful  flour. 
Put  this  with  the  meat  into  a  saucepan ;  season  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it  boil  for  one  or  two  minutes.  Just 
before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  wine  to  taste^  and  if  desired,  a 
iitUe  mace. 

Be  careful  to    remove  the  skin  from  the  legs. — Mrs,  A, 

M.D. 

TuKKEY  Salad. 

Mince  the  turkey  very  fine.  Have  ready  the  following  mixt- 
ure, for  a  large  company. 

Twelve  or  fourteen  eggs  boiled  hard ;  mash  the  yolks  smooth 
with  one  spoonful  water ;  add  to  it  pepper,  salt,  and  mustard  to 
the  taste.  Two  teaspoonfuls  celery-seed,  one  teacup  of  fresh 
melted  butter  or  fine  olive  oil,  and  pour  in  strong  vinegar  to  the 
taste. 

Mix  tHe  turkey  and  celery,  and  pour  over  the  mixture  just 
before  eating. — Mrs.  F.  G.  W. 

Turkey  Salad. 

Remove  the  skin  and  fat  from  a  turkey ;  minoe  the  meat 
fine. 

Mince  2  or  3  slices  lean  ham. 

2  or  3  bunches  celery. 

3  or  4  apples. 

3  or  4  cucumber  pickles ;  mix  well  together. 

Pi'Cpare  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  rubbed  in  a  little 

thick  cream. 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper. 

9  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard. 

Vinegar  to  the  taste. 

—Mrs,  Dr.  & 
17 


194  TUBKST  SALAD — OHIORSN  8ALAD. 

!Pu/rket/  Salad. 

Boil  two  turkeys  till  well  done,  pick  out  all  the  bones,  skin 
and  fat,  and  cut  up  the  balance  in  small  pieces. 

Boil  one  dozen  eggs  hard,  let  them  cool,  then  separate  the 
yolks  and  whites,  mash  the  yolks  fine,  chop  the  whites  very  fino 
and  set  them  to  one  side. 

Have  a  large  flat  dish,  in  which  put  four  large  spoonfula 
mixed  mustard ;  pour  in  a  little  oil,  and  with  a  fork  rub  it 
in  till  smooth,  then  a  little  vinegar,  in  which  has  been  melted 
two  full  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  then  oU,  and  alternately  put  in 
oil  and  vinegar,  each  time  rubbing  it  in  till  well  mixed.  When 
you  have  mixed  a  whole  bottle  of  oil  and  one  pint  vinegar  till 
it  is  as  smooth  as  butter,  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  cayenne 
pepper,  three  teaspoonfuls  celery-seed  rubbed  fine  in  a  mortar, 
and  one  large  mango  cut  fine,  put  in  stuffing  and  alL 

Have  ready  as  much  celery  as  you  have  fowl,  cut  fine,  mix 
meat  and  celery  carefully  together,  and  pour  the  dressing  over 
tAl—Mrs.  JS.  I. 

Chicken  Salad. 

One  large  chicken  boiled;  when  cold  remove  the  skin  and 
chop  into  a  dish,  over  which  throw  a  towel  slightly  dipped  in 
cold  water  to  keep  the  meat  moist  When  the  celery  is  cut^ 
put  between  clean  cloths  to  dry. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  best  mustard,  the  yolk  of  one  raw 
egg,  which  drop  into  a  dish  large  enough  to  hold  all  the  dress, 
ing ;  beat  well  for  ten  minutes  and  slowly  add  to  the  mustard 
one  tablespoonful  vinegar. 

When  well  mixed  add  three-eighths  bottle  of  oil,  a  drop  at  a 
time,  always  stirring  the  same  way. 

Kub  the  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs  very  smooth  and  stir  in 
half  a  teacup  of  vinegar.  Pour  this  mixture  to  the  mustard, 
oil,  etc. ,  stirring  together  as  lightly  as  possible. 

Add  to  the  chicken  one  piut  chopped  celery,  a  little  yellow 
pickle,  and  half  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  and  the  oil  taken 


OmOKIEN  BALAD.  195 

fiom  the  water  in  which  the  chioken  has  boiled.     Salt  and  pep 
per  to  taste. 

Pour  on  the  dressing  just  befoi-e  serving.     If  the  salad  is  kept 
too  cool  the  dressing  will  curdle. — Mrs.  M. 

Chicken  Salad. 

The  meat  of  2  boiled  fowls  chopped  very  fine. 
2  or  3  heads  of  cabbage  cut  fine. 
1  cup  olive  oil. 
^  pint  vinegar. 
Tolks  of  9  hard-boiled  eggs. 
1  gill  made  mustard. 
1  small  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  small  teaspoonful  salt. 
Mix  smoothly  with  the   oil  and  then  add  the  vinegar.-^ 
MubN. 

Ohick&n  Salad  far  ThUrty-fim  Pecple. 

Tolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  lightly. 

i  box  of  mixed  mustard,  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
Add  slowly,  beating  all  the  time,  one  large  sized  bottle  of 
best  salad  oiL    Lastly,  add  two-thirds  teacup  of  vinegar. — Mtm. 
C.  C.  MeP. 

Chicken  Salad. 

1  head  cabbage. 

2  heads  celery. 

2  chickens  finely  minced. 
10  eggs. 

3  small  cucumber  pickles. 
I  tablespoonful  mustard. 
A  little  cayenne  pepper. 

^  cup  butter;  i  cup  cream. 

1  onion. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar. 


196  OHIOKKN  SALAD — OBLERT  SALAD. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  mash  the  yolks,  put  in  the  seasoning  with 
a  little  vinegar. 

Chop  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  the  pickle,  chicken,  cabbage 
and  celery — then  mijc  If  liked,  add  a  little  olive  oil. — Mrs. 
O.  B. 

Chicken   Salad. 

Boil  a  chicken ;  while  warm,  mince  it,  taking  out  the  bones. 
Put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  boiling  water.  Then  stir  together 
until  smooth,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
flour  and  yolk  of  one  raw  egg ;  all  of  which  add  to  the  cliicken 
one  half  at  a  time,  stirring  all  well  together. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes ;  then  add  half  a  gill  of  Madeira 
wine,  and  send  to  the  table  while  hot. — Mrs.  P. 

Celery  Salad. 

2  boiled  eggs. 

1  raw  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  or  1  of  oil. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard. 
^  teaspoonful  salt. 
J  teaspoonful  pepper. 
•J-  teacup  vinegar. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  eggs  smooth,  then  add  the  oil,  mustard,  eta, 
the  vinegar  last.     Cut  the  celery  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long. 
Set  all  in  a  cool  place. 

Just  before  serving  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  black  pep- 
per, then  pour  over  the  dressing. 

If  you  have  any  cold  fowl,  chicken,  or  turkey  left  from 
dinner,  chop  it  up  and  mix  it  with  some  of  the  above — equal 
proportions  of  both — and  it  will  make  a  delicious  salad ;  or  a 
few  oysters  leflb  in  the  tureen  will  be  a  great  addition  to  tho 
celery  salad. — Mrs.  8.  T. 


TOMATO  BAXAD — ^VBAL  AKD  POTATO  SALAD.  197 

Tomato  Salad. 

8  large  tomatoes. 

1  tablespoonful  made  mnstarcL 

1  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

2  tablespoonfuls  wliite  sugar. 
4  bard-boiled  eggs. 

1  raw  egg  beaten. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

1  saltspoon  nearly  full  cayenne  pepper, 
f  teacup  vinegar. 
First  rub  the  yolks  of  eggs  smooth,  adding  mustard,  oil^ 
sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  beaten  raw  ^gg — ^then  the  vinegar.    The 
tomatoes  should  be  peeled  and  sliced  and  set  in  the  refrigerator 
— ^the  dressing  also. 

Just  before -serving,  cover  the  tomatoes  with  ice  broken  up  ; 
sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pour  over  the  dressing. — Jtfra, 
S.  T. 

A  Salad  op  Turnips. 

Scrape  six  common  sized  turnips. 

Add  2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  or  more  cups  vinegar. 

Mustard,  celery-seed,  and  pepper  to  taste. 

—Mrs.  G.  A.  B. 

Potato  Salad. 

Boil  your  potatoes  very  carefully ;  or,  rather,  steam  them 
untU  very  dry  and  mealy ;  cut  in  slices  and  prepare  a  dress- 
ing of  egg,  onion,  mustard,  oil,  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  and 
pour  over  them. —  W,  S.  S. 

Veal  and  Potato  Salad. 

Take  equal  proportions  of  cold  veal  and  boiled  Irish  pota- 
toes. 

Shred  tlie  veal  and  cut  up  tlie  potatoes.  Season  with  a  little 
batter  or  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  celery,  and  mustard. — Mrs.  H, 


198  IBIBH  POTATO  SALAD — ^LBTTUOB  SALAD. 

Ibish  Potato  Salad. 

Gut  ten  or  twelve  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  small  pieoea. 
Put  into  a  salad  bowl  with — 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
4t  tablespoonfuls  best  salad  oiL 
1  teaspoonful  minoed  parsley. 
Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Btir  all  well  that  they  may  be  thoroughly  mixed ;  it  should 
be  made  several  hours  before  putting  on  the  table. 

Throw  in  bits   of  pickle,  cold  fowl,  a  garnish  of  grated 
ctmbkeTi  and  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  0.  Y.  McG.,  Alabama, 

Potato  Salad. 

To  one  quart  potatoes  mashed  fine  and  rubbed   through 
a  colander : 

1  tablespoonful  fresh  butter. 
1  teaspoonfdl  salt. 

1  teacupful  rich  milk. 
Oream  all  together  and  beat  until  light. 

Bub  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  with — 

2  teaspoonfuls  mustard. 
2  teaspoonfuls  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  pepper. 
1  teaspoonfii]  salt. 
Enough  pepper  vinegar  to  moisten. 
Then  chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  fine  and  mix  in. 
Put  a  layer  of  the  potatoes  in  the  salad-bowl  ani  with 
a  spoon  put  the  dressing  over  in  spots.     Another  layer  of  pota- 
toes, then  the  dressing,  and  so  on,  putting  the  dressing  on  top. 
Qamish  with  curled  parsley,  and  serve. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Take  two  large  lettuces,  after  removing  the  outer  leaves  and 
rinsing  the  rest  in  cold  water,  cut  lengthwise  in  four  or 
pieces,  rub  into  a  bowl  and  sprinkle  over  them — 


CX>LD  SLAW.  199 

1  teaspoonfiil  salt. 

^  teaspoonfiil  pepper* 
3  ounces  salad  oiL 

2  ounces  English,  or  1  onnoe  French  vinegar. 

Stir  the  salad  lightly  in  the  bowl  until  well  mixed.  Tarragon 
and  chevies,  or  a  little  water  or  mustard  cress. — Mrs,  R. 

Slaw. 

Chop  fine  one  head  of  cabbage  put  in  a  pan. 
1  oup  cream. 
1  j>  teaspoonful  mustard. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
And  yolk  of  one  egg,  beaten  light. 
When  boiled  add  one-half  cup  of  strong  vinegar ;  stir  well 
and  pour  over  the  cabbage. — Mrs.  E,  T, 

Cold  Slaw. 

Wash  well  and  shred  fine,  a  firm  white  cabbage. 

Boil  one  teacup  vinegar. 

One  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  little  flour,  stir  this  in  the  vin- 
egar. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  till  light  and  stir  also  in  the  mixt- 
ure, just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

Add  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt,  to  the  butter  and  flour,  before 
putting  in  the  vinegar. 

Pour  all,  when  hot,  over  the  cabbage  and  set  away  to  cool. — 
Mrs.  M.  G. 

Cold  Slaw, 

Wash  your  cabbage  and  lay  in  cold  water  some  hours.  Have 
a  seasoning  of  egg,  mustard,  oil,  pepper,  salt,  oelery-seed,  and 
vinegar,  and  pour  over  it.  In  winter  the  slaw  will  keep  a  day 
or  two. — Mrs,  W, 


200  LBTrnoK  drsbbsd— fish  sauoe. 

Lettugx  Dressed. 

Take  well  headed  lettuce,  chop  it  fine  and  pour  over  a  dressing 
made  of  salt  and  pepper,  mustard,  hard-boiled  egg,  and  olive 
oil. 

Cream  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  mustard  together  with  a  little 
oil,  until  quite  smooth.     Add  vinegar  if  desired. — Mrs,  JR. 

Lettuce  Dressed. 

Lettuce  chopped  fine. 

•)•  cup  vinegar. 

^  cup  ice- water. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  cayenne, 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped. 
1  onion  chopped. 

1  tablespoonful  made  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil. — Mrs.  S.  T, 


•  ♦• 


SAUCES. 

Sauce  for  Salad  or  Fish. 

Yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  mashed  well  with  mixed 
mustard,  pepper,  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  three  of 
vinegar  and  one  of  tomato  capsup. — Mrs,  c/i  JET.  JF, 

Fish  Sauce. 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  and  stirred  into  two  cups  of 
drawn  butter. 

Let  it  simmer,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  pepper-sauce, 
two  tablespoonfuls  minced  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  and  salt  to 
the  taste. 

Pour  over  the  fish  and  slice  a  lemon  overall. — Mrs.  S.  2! 


bavob  fob  nsh — ^dutoh  sauov  fob  fish.         201 

Sauce  fob  Fish. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar,  half  a  table- 
spoonful  fresh  butter,  a  little  salt. 

To  be  stirred  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  thickens,  it  must  only 
be  warm  or  it  will  curdle  and  spoil. — Mrs,  8. 

Saucb  fob  Cod^s  Head. 

Take  a  lobster,  stick  a  skewer  through  the  tail,  to  keep  the 
water  out;  throw  a  handful  of  salt  in  the  water.  When  it 
boils  put  in  the  lobster  and  boil  half  an  hoar ;  pick  off  the 
spawns,  if  any,  and  pound  them  very  fine  in  a  marble  mortar 
and  put  them  in  one-half  pound  drawn  butter.  Take  the  meat 
out  of  the  lobster,  pull  it  in  bits  and  put  it  in  your  butter;  add  : 

1  spoonful  walnut  catsup. 

1  slice  of  lemon. 

1  or  2  slices  horseradish. 

A  little  pounded  mace. 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Boil  them  one  minute ;  then  take  out  the  lemon  aiul  horse- 
radish, and  serve  it  up  in  the  sauce-boat. — Mrs,  R. 

Dutch  Sauce  fob  Fish. 

1  teaspoonful  flour. 

2  ounces  butter. 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs. 

Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Salt  to  the  taste. 
Put  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  lemon  juice,  into  a  ste^- 
pan ;  set  it  over  the  fire  and  keep  constantly  stirring.  When  it 
is  sufficiently  thick,  take  it  off,  as  it  should  not  boil.  If^  bow- 
over,  it  happens  to  curdle,  strain  the  sauce  through  a  taminy, 
add  the  lemon  juice,  and  serve.  Tarragon  vinegar  may  be  used 
instead  of  plain,  and  by  many  is  considered  far  preferabla  — 
Mr8.  C. 


202        maItrb  d'hOtb  savob—hobsbb apish  bauov. 

MaItbk  d'E6tb  Sauob. 

It  is  nothing  more  than  butter-sauce  made  thus : 

Add  to  one  teacup  drawn  butter,  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon. 

2  teaspoonfuls  chopped  parsley. 
A  little  minced  onion  and  thyme. 
Cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Beat  with  an  egg- whip  while  simmering.  Gk>od  for  almost 
any  dish  of  fish  or  meat. — Mrs.  8*  T, 

Fish  Sauoe. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  wineglassful  vinegar. 

2  wineglaasfuls  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup. 

Peppery  salt,  and  mustard  to  the  taste.  Stew  till  well  mixed. 
— Mm,  t/I  D. 

Akchoyt  Sauoe. 

Soak  eight  anchovies  in  cold  water,  for  several  hours ;  cu*« 
up  and  stew  in  a  very  little  water  for  twenty  minutes ;  stiuin 
into  one  teacup  drawn  butter. 

Pour  all  in  a  saucepan  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  Beat  it  up 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  pour  into  a  sauce  tureen.  Add  a  little 
cayenne  pepper ;  one  squeeze  of  lemon. — Mr%.  S.  T. 

Hobsbkabish  Sauob. 

Grate  one  teacupful  horseradish. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  or  olive  oil  if  i>referred. 

Pepper  and  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  turmeric. — Mrs,  J.  H,  T, 

Celery  sauce  is  good  made  in  the  same  way,  by  adding  butter 
instead  of  oil,  and  celery  instead  of  horseradish. — Mrs,  P.  TK 


FBFTBB  TINBOAS — ^ICUSHBOOM  8AU0B.  308 

MU8HBOOM  Sauce,  fob  Fkied  ob  Bboiled  Fish. 

Get  fine-grown  fresh  gathered  mushrooms;  break  them  up 
and  sprinkle  salt  over  them.  Let  them  lie  for  the  juice  to  run 
oaty  stirring  them  often.  When  the  juice  has  been  extracted, 
strain  it,  boil  well  with  a  little  ginger  and  pepper. 

Do  not  season  much,  as  it  is  the  mushroom  flavor  to  be 
desired.  You  can  add  seasoning  as  required ;  all  necessary  to 
keep  it  is  enough  salt  and  pepper. 

This  makes  a  nice  flavoring  for  anj  sauce  or  gravy  mixed 
with  soy  or  lemon  pickle. — JWrs,  0.  C. 

Pbppeb  Yinboab. 

Fill  a  quart  bottle  with  small  peppers,  either  green  or  ripe ; 
put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  fill  with  good  cider  vine- 
gar. 

Invaluable  in  seasoning  sauces,  and  good  to  eat  with  fish  or 
meat.  If  small  peppers  cannot  be  obtained,  cut  up  large  pods 
instead.— Jfr«.  8.  T. 

ToujLto  Sauce. 

Scald  and  peel  six  large  ripe  tomatoes ;  chop  them  up  and  stew 
slowly.  Cream  one  tablespoonfdl  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  together. 

When  the  tomatoes  are  thoroughly  done,  and  reduced  to  a 
fine  pulp,  add  pepper  and  salt. 

Stir  the  butter,  sugar,  and  flour  in.  Let  boil  up  and  serve. 
^Mr9.  S.  T. 

MusHBooM  Sauce. 

Roll  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg  into  one  heaping 

^aspoonful  sifted  flour ;  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  warm  water ; 

Ht  it  simmer.     Pour  in  one  teacup  cream,  and  stir ;  throw  in 

one  pint  young  mushrooms,  washed,  [)icked,  and  skinned  ;  add 

pepper,  salt,  another  small  piece  of  butter. 

Let  it  boil  up  once,  shaking  the  pan  well,  and  serve. — Jfra 
i&  T. 


204  onion  sauoe — white  8au0b  fob  fowls. 

Onion  Sauce. 

Boil  fc  or  or  five  large  white  onions  in  salt  and  water ;  change 
the  water,  then  drain  them.  Chop  fine  and  boil  with  one  tea- 
cup new  ndlk,  salt,  pepper,  and  one  tablespoonful  peppe**  sauce. 

Add  drawn  butter  and  serve. — Mrs,  8.  T, 

Nasturtium  Sauce. 

This  is  made  by  stirring  into  one  teacup  drawn  butter,  three 
tablespoonfuls  pickled  nasturtiums,  adding  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per.    Simmer  gently  and  serve. — Jifrs,  JS.  T, 

Apple  Sauce. 

Pare  and  slice  some  tart  apples ;  stew  until  tender  in  a  very 
little  water,  then  reduce  to  a  smooth  pulp.  Stir  in  sugar  and 
butter  to  the  taste,  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  little  nut- 
meg.— Mrs.  S,  T. 

Mint  Sauce. 

3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
2  tablespoonfuls  mint. 
1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 
Mix  ten  minutes  before  using. — Mrs,  S,  T, 

Sauces  especially  suitable  for  Fowls,  though  they   may    he 

used  for  any  hind    of  Meats. 

White  Sauce  for  Fowls. 

Take  the  neck,  gizzard,  liver,  and  feet  of  fowls,  with  a  piece 
of  mutton  or  veal,  if  you  have  any,  and  boil  in  one  quart  water 
with  a  few  whole  peppers,  and  salt,  till  reduced  to  one  pint ; 
then  thicken  with  a  quarter  pound  butter  mixed  with  flour  and 
boil  it  five  or  six  minutes. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  one  teacup  good  cream  ;  put 
it  in  the  saucepan,  shaking  over  the  fire  till  done. — Mis.  Dr.  & 


ftAUCE  FOR   BOILED  FOULTBY— DRAWN  BUTTBR.        205 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Poultry. 

One  Ettick  of  white,  blanched  celery,  chopped  very  small ;  put 
it  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  milk  and  a  few  black  pepper- 
corns ;  let  it  boil  gently,  till  reduced  to  one  pint.  Keep  stir- 
ring the  celery  up  with  the  milk  until  it  is  in  a  pulp.  Thicken 
the  whole  with  the  yolk  of  one  fresh  egg  well  beaten,  and  half 
a  teacup  of  fresh  cream. — Mrs.  8, 

Celery  Sauce. 

Chop  celery  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long,  enough  to  fill  one 
pint  measure,  and  stew  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  till  tender. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar,  a  little  salt  and  pepper ; 
pour  in  one  teacup  cream  or  milk,  then  add  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  drawn  butter. — Mrs.  S,  T. 

EoG  Sauce. 

Out  up  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Stir  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  drawn  butter,   adding,  just 
as  you  serve,  minced  onion,  parsley,  and  thyme. — Mtb,  S,  T, 

Asparagus  Sauce. 

Parboil  one  bunch  of  asparagus,  first  scraping.     When  nearly 

done,  drain  and  cut  iu  small  pieces.     Stew  in  a  teacup  of  milk, 

with  pep|)er  and  salt.     When  done  pour  into  drawn  butter,  and 

serve. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

Oyster  Sauce. 

Scald  one  pint  large  fresh  oysters,  just  enough  to  plump 
them ;  adding  one  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar,  a  little  black 
pepper  and  salt. 

Pour  into  a  sufficient  quantity  of  di-awii  butter  and  serve. — 

Vrs.  S.  T, 

Drawn  Butter. 

Take  one-quarter  pound  of  best  fresh  butter,  cut  it  up  and  mix 
with  it  two  teaspoonfuls  flour ;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  and  add  to  it  four  tablespoon ftilH  cold  water. 


206  DBAWN  BDTTEB — ^HUSHBOOM  aAUOB. 

Cover  the  pan  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  shake  i  • 
round  continuallj,  always  moving  it  the  same  way.  When  tii< 
butter  is  entirely  melted  and  begins  to  simmer,  then  let  it  rest 
until  it  boils  up.  In  melting  butter  for  pudding,  some  substi- 
tute milk  for  water. — Mrs,  Dr.  JS. 

Dra/uon  SuUer. 

Cream  together  one-quarter  pound  fresh  butter,  with  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  sifted  flour ;  add  to  this  six  teaspoonfuls 
water. 

Put  it  in  a  small  tin  saucepan  and  set  it  in  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water,  until  it  begins  to  simmer,  shaking  it  often. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

DroMm  BuU&r. 

Rub  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  little  flour,  add  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Shake  continually  over  the  fire  without  letting  it  boil,  till  it 
thickens. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

Stew  two  quarts  cranberries ;  putting  only  water  enough  to 
keep  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  kettle.  Keep  covered 
until  nearly  done,  then  stir  in  one  quart  white  sugai*,  and  boil 
until  thick.  The  color  is  finer  when  the  sugar  is  added  just 
before  the  sauce  is  done. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Wash  and  pick  one  pint  young  mushrooms,  rub  them  with 
salt  to  take  off  the  tender  skin.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  one  blade  of  mace,  one  pint  cream,  lump  jf 
butter  rubbed  in  flour. 

Boil  them  up  and  stir  till  done,  then  pour  it  round  the 
chickens.     Gamiah  with  lemon. — Mrs.  C.  C 


SALAD  DRB86ING — DBBSSINa  FOfi  8ALAD.  207 

SALAD  DRESSINGS. 

Take  the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg ;  add  to  that  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  either  dry  or  thickly  mixed  mustard,  salt  and  pep 
per  to  your  taste. 

When  well  mixed  together,  add  sweet  oil  in  tmy  small 
quantities,  at  a  time,  stirring  briskly  until  it  is  very  thick. 
Then  add  a  little  vinegar,  but  not  sufficient  to  make  the  dress- 
ing thin.  These  are  the  proportions  for  the  yolk  of  one  rav 
^;g,  sufficient  for  four  people.  The  quantity  of  eggs,  mustard, 
etc.,  must  be  increased  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  dressing 
needed. — Mrs.  McK, 

Salad  Dressing. 

Beat  two  eggs.     Add  butter  size  of  half  an  egg. 
\  teaspoonful  mustard  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  water. 
4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
\  teacupful  boiling  water. 

Set  it  in  a  bowl  on  top  of  the  tea-kettle  and  stir  until  as 
thick  as  oream. — Mrs,  W.  H.  M, 

Dressing. 

To  one  tumblerful  vinegar,  warmed  in  a  stewpan,  add  four 
beaten  eggs ;  stir  for  a  few  minutes  till  cooked  like  boiled  cus- 
tard.    Then  throw  in : 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 

1  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

A  lump  of  butter  size  of  half  an  egg,  instead  of  oil. 
Stir  well  and  pour  out.     Will  keep  for  weeks.     Good  for 
chicken  salad. — Mr 9,  W. 

Dressing  for  Salad. 

Turkey  is  more  economical  and  better  for  salad  than  chicken 
To  one  turkey,  weighing  about  nine  pounds,  allow  nine  eggs : 


808  DBE88INO   FOB  OUIOKBN  8ALAD. 

7  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  raw  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 

To  each  egg  allow  2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  (lerfectly  pure 

and  sweet. 
1  saltspoonful  salt 

1  saltspoonful  made  mustard. 

2  saltspooniuls  cayenne  pepper  to  the  whole  amount. 
Celery  to  the  taste. 

Lettuce  leaves,  if  in  season,  using  only  the  heart 

The  juice  of  2  lemons. 

This  will  last  a  week. — Mrs,  A.  M.  J). 

Dkessing  for  Chicken  Salad. 

To   fbur  chickens,  the   yolks   of  twelve  eggs  mashed  very 

smooth  with : 

1  raw  egg  beaten  light 

i  teacup  of  mustard. 

^  teaspoonful  red  pepper. 

1  teacup  salad  oil. 

1  cup  of  vinegar. 

1  quart  of  cut  celery. 

Salt  to  the  taste. 

— jfr*.  t/:  tf: 

Lettuce  Dressing. 

1  raw  egg. 

1  tablespoonfiil  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  teaspoonful  mustard. 

A  little  cayenne  pepper  (never  use  black  pepper  on  lettuce). 

2  tablespoonfuls  best  olive  oil. 

1  tables(K>onful  vinegar.  — Misa  R,  S. 

Dressing  fok  Cabbage. 

The  yolk  of  an  egg. 
1  teaspnonful  salt. 


■ANA  HAT0NKAI6B— SALAD  TOB  SLAW.  209 

1  teupoonful  mostard. 

2  teaapoonfuls  sugar^  mashed  smooth. 
1  cup  of  cream. 

Vinegar  to  your  taste. 

Sana  Matonkaise. 

Hie  yolks  (raw)  of  two  eggs. 

Stir  in  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time,  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  and 
then  pour  it  in  slowly  still,  but  in  greater  quantities,  stirring 
continually.  Add  cayenne  pepper,  salt^  and  vinegar  to  the 
taste. 

If  mustard  is  liked  in  the  sauce,  it  must  be  mixed  with  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  before  dropping  the  oiL 

This  sauce  should  be  nearly  as  thick  as  soft  butter.  It  makes 
a  delicious  dressing  for  lettuce,  celery,  cold  poultry  or  game ; 
and  also  for  cold  boiled  fish  or  pickled  salmon.  If  used  with 
the  latter,  the  salmon  should  be  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  dish 
and  covered  thickly  with  sauce. 

Boiled  chestnuts,  peeled,  smaU  pickled  onions,  sliced  cucum- 
bers, lettuce,  eta,  are  a  great  addition,  and  should  be  used  to 
dress  or  garnish  the  dish,  but  not  be  mixed  with  tlie  salmon. — 
Mrs.  E.  P.,  Cin. 

Salad  fob  Slaw. 

3  eggs  well  beaten. 

Nearly  a  cup  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  mustard. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 

Tumbler  of  nulk. 

Tumbler  of  vinegar. 

Stir  well  over  the  fire  until  as  thick  as  custard.     Lot  it  cool 

and  pour  over  cabbage. — Mm,  R.  A, 

18 


910  DBB88INa  VOB  OOLD  SLAW — BAUO)  DBESSDffe. 

DBBSBOrO  FOB  GOLD  SlAW. 

1  cup  of  vinegar. 

2  eggs  well  beaten* 
1  teaspoonfnl  saltb 

1  teaapoonfol  mostard. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
A  little  black  pepper. 
Mix  together  the  butter,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard ;  add 
the  eggs  last. 

Have  the  vinegar  boiling  and  pour  it  on,  stining  all  the 
time.  Then  pour  it  back  in  the  saucepan  and  boil  a  few 
minutes.     Pour  on  the  slaw  when  cold. — JHUs  iNT. 

Ijettuob  Dbessino. 

Tolks  of  4  eggs. 

1  teacup  milk. 

1  teacup  vinegar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  oil  or  melted  butter. 
After  mixing  all  well  together,  except  the  vinegar,  let  it 
pome  to  a  boil.     When  cold,  beat  well,  add  the  vinegar,  salt, 
pepper,  and  made  mustard  to  suit  the  taste.     Keep  oorked  in 
a  bottle. — Mrs,  A.  M,  D, 

Salad  Dbbssiho. 

Put  one  tumbler  vinegar,  and  one  lump  butter,  size  of  an 
^gg,  on  to  boil. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  and  pour  the  boiling 
vinegar  over  them,  stirring  all  the  time ;  return  it  to  the  fire 
and  continue  to  stir,  until  it  thickens  like  custard.  When  it  is 
perfectly  cold  add  one  tumblerful  cream,  into  which  has  been 
mixed  one  tablespoonfiil  salt,  one  tablespoonful  mustard,  twc 
spoonfuls  sugar,  and  one  spoonful  bruised  celery-seed. 

Bottle  the  dressing  and  it  will  keep  for  a  month. — Jtfrv.  P, 


GKLBBT  DBBBSOrO— BBUHBWIOK  8TBW.  211 

Oblbbt  DsBsanro. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  beaten  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonfdl  mixed  mustard. 

1  cup  vinegar. 

1  cup  fresh  milk  or  cream. 
Boil  and  use  cold. — Mrs.  I,  D. 

To  Dress  Cblbbt. 

Beat  light  the  yolk  of  one  ^;g ;  add : 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
1  teaspoonful  olive  oil. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

—Mrs,  Dr.  S. 


—^*. 


BRUNSWICK  STEWS,  GUMBO,  AND  SIDE  DISHES. 

Brunswick  Stsw. 

A  twenty-five  cent  shank  of  beef. 

A  five-cent  loaf  of  bread-^square  loaf,  as  it  has  more  crumbi 
and  the  crust  is  not  used. 

1  quart  potatoes  cooked  and  mashed. 

1  quart  cooked  butter-beans. 

1  quart  raw  com. 

1^  quart  raw  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped. 

If  served  at  two  o'clock,  put  on  the  shank  as  for  soup,  at  the 
'earliest  possible  hour;  then  about  twelve  o'clock  tako  ths 
shank  out  of  the  soup  and  shred  and  cut  all  of  the  meat  as  fine 


91S  BBtnrewioK  stbw. 

as  jou  can,  oarefdlly  taking  out  bone  ana  gristle,  and  then 
return  it  to  the  soup-pot  and  add  all  of  the  vegetables ;  the 
bread  and  two  slices  of  middling  are  an  improvement  to  it. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste ;  and  when  ready  to 
serve,  drop  into  the  tureen  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

This  makes  a  tureen  and  about  a  vegetable-dish  full. — Mtb. 

JBru/Mtoick  Stew. 

About  four  hours  before  dinner,  put  on  two  or  three  slices  of 
bacon,  two  squirrels  or  chickens,  one  onion  sliced,  in  one  gallon 
water.  Stew  some  time,  then  add  one  quart  peeled  tomatoes, 
two  ears  of  grated  com,  three  Irish  potatoes  sliced,  and  one 
handful  butter-beans,  and  part  pod  of  red  pepper. 

Stew  altogether  about  one  hour,  till  you  can  take  out  the 
bones.  When  done,  put  in  one  spoonful  bread  crumbs  and  one 
large  spoonful  butter. — Jifrt.  M.  Jf.  D, 

JBnmsvnck  Stew. 

Take  one  chicken  or  two  squirrels,  cut  them  up  and  put  one- 
half  gallon  water  to  them.  Let  it  stew  until  the  bones  can  be 
removed.  Add  one-half  dozen  large  tomatoes,  one-half  pint 
butter-beans,  and  com  cut  from  half  a  dozen  ears,  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter  as  seasoning. — JBHre.  I,  H. 

BrwMwicik   Stew, 

Take  two  chickens  or  three  or  four  squirrels,  let  them  boil  in 
water.  Cook  one  pint  butter-beans,  and  one  quart  tomatoes ; 
cook  with  the  meat.  When  done,  add  one  dozen  ears  corn, 
one  dozen  large  tomatoes,  and  one  pound  butter. 

Take  out  the  chicken,  cut  it  into  small  pieces  and  put  back ; 
oook  until  it  is  well  done  and  thick  enough  to  be  eaten  with  a 
fork. 

Season  with  pepper  and  salt. — Mrs.  i2. 


auMBo.  313 

Gumbo. 

Pat  one  tablespoonfol  lard  into  a  pan.  Slice  two  onioiis  and 
fiy  them  in  it  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  a  chicken  cut  up, 
and  fry  it  in  the  lard  till  it  slightly  browns,  also  one  or  two  slices 
of  bacon  or  pork,  and  three  or  four  bunches  parsley  cut  up. 

Have  a  heaping  plateful  of  ochra  cut  up ;  put  that  in  the  pan 
and  let  it  wilt  a  few  minutes  (you  must  stir  it),  then  add  three 
or  four  tomatoes  cut  up.  Then  put  the  whole  into  a  stewpan, 
pour  hot  water  to  it,  not  quite  as  much  as  for  soup.  Let  it  boil 
until  quite  thick.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  also  red  or  green 
pod  pepper. 

It  must  be  dished  like  soup  and  eaton  with  rice ;  the  rice  to 
be  boiled  dry  and  served  in  a  yegetable  dish ;  put  one  or  two 
spoonfuls  in  a  plate  and  pour  the  gumbo  over  it. — Mrs.  G, 

Ovmbo. 

Cut  up  two  chickens,  fry  slightly  with  a  little  onion,  and  a 
few  slices  pickled  pork. 

Put  in  three  or  four  quarts  boiling  water,  together  with 
pepper  and  salt,  eighteen  okras,  one-half  peck  cut  up  tomatoes. 

Stew  one  hour  and  a  half. — Mrs.  D,  R, 

Ghimbo. 

Take  one  chicken,  frying  size,  cut  up  in  hot  lard  ;  add  one 
quart  ochra  chopped  fine,  and  one  good  sized  onion  chopped  fine, 
when  the  chicken  begins  to  brown,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it 
ceases  to  rope  and  is  a  nice  brown. 

Then  put  it  into  a  deep  vessel  and  pour  on  enough  boiling 
water  to  make  soup  for  ten  or  twelve  persons,  adding  two  or 
three  tomatoes,  skinned  and  sliced,  two  ears  of  tender  corui 
salt,  and  black  and  red  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Let  the  whole  boil  one  hour. 

Boil  rice  veiy  dry  and  serve  with  it* — Mrs.  P  Mc  G. 


214         ouMBc  Fnji*  A  la  orbole — ^vbal  pat£8. 

Gumbo  Filit  1  la  Creole. 

Put  into  a  deep  pot  one  tablespoonfol  lard,  when  hot  put  ir 
one  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  in  until  brown,  then  slice  one 
large  onion  and  fry  it  till  brown ;  skim  out  the  onion  and  do 
not  put  it  back  until  a  chicken  cut  up  in  small  pieces  has  been 
fried.  Stir  it  all  the  time.  Have  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 
near  by ;  pour  one  or  two  cups  of  water  on  the  chicken,  stir 
well  and  let  it  simmer  slowly.     Add: 

10  allspice. 
8  cloves. 

Red  and  black  pepper. 
Parsley  and  thyme  if  you  like  it. 
Put  in  two  quarts  of  water,  boiling,  and  let  it  boil  gently  two 
hours.  Have  ready  the  liquor  from  one  quart  oysters,  put  that 
in  with  the  water ;  put  the  oysters  in  later,  allowing  them  time 
to  cook.  When  ready  to  serve  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  filit, 
boil  up  once.     To  be  eaten  with  rice  cooked  dry. 

N.  B.  IfUU  is  only  pulverized  sassafras  leaves,  dried  and 
sifted ;  you  can  make  it  yourself. — 3fra,  S.f  Jj€l 

Veal  PAt^s. 

3^  pounds  leg  of  veal. 

i  pound  salt  pork. 

6  so<la  crackers  rolled  and  sifted. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

1  nutmeg. 

2  eggs  well  beaten* 
Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Hash  veal  and  pork  together,  cutting  very  fine  Then  mix 
seasoning  very  thoroughly  and  foiin  into  oval  shapes.  Put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  and  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  while  in 
the  baking  dish ;  half  a  teacup  water,  and  baste  frequently 
while  baking.    In  moulding  it  and  when  mixing  it  keep  wetting 


HA8HBD  MUTTON — MUTTON  HASH.  315 

the  liands  in  cold  water,  also  wet  the  dish  when  jcu  begin 
moulding  it  in  shape. — Mr%,  J,  P,  H, 

Hashed  Mutton. 

Cat  cold  mutton  into  verj  thin  slices,  and  make  a  gravy  by 
boiling  the  bones  for  two  hours  with  a  little  onion,  pepper  and 
salt. 

Strain  this  grayy  and  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  adding  a 
small  amount  of  tomato  or  mushroom  gravy  to  flavor  it,  and 
a  small  piece  of  butter.  When  the  gravy  is  of  a  proper  con< 
sistency,  put  in  the  slices  of  mutton,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly 
for  ten  minutes.  Serve  on  a  platter  with  parsley  and  sippets 
of  bread. 

Bashed  MuUon. 

Fry  in  a  saucepan  three  small  onions,  and  three  small  slices 
of  bacon  or  ham,  until  they  are  brown ;  then  add  a  little  more 
than  half  a  pint  water,  and  thicken  it  with  flour.  Next  strain 
it  and  add  it  to  the  meat  with  a  little  sauce ;  pepper  and  salt 
to  the  taste. 

It  will  take  about  an  hour  to  hash. 

Mutton  Hash. 

Cut  the  meat  up  fine,  putting  the  bones  on  to  stew  in  water ; 
then  take  out  the  bones  and  put  in  the  hash,  with  pepper,  salt 
and  gravy  left  from  the  day  before. 

Let  these  stew  at  least  half  an  hour.     Put  in  one  large 
tablespoonful  browned  flour.     Add — 
6  tablespoonfuls  red  wine. 
1  tablespoonful  walnut  catsup. 
1  tablespoonful  tomato  catsup. 
A  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  a  little  flour. 
If  a  small  dish,  proportion  the  seasoning. 
Beef,  goose,  and  duck  hash  can  be  made  the  same  way.— 
Mr$.  JR. 


916  HOTOH   FOTOH — A   NIOB  SIDB  OI8H. 

HOTCH  POTCH. 

During  the  Bummer  season  get  lamb  chops,  which  half  fry. 
Cut  up  cabbage,  lettuce,  turnips,  onions  and  any  other  vege- 
tables, which  boil,  with  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  etc.;  one 
hour  before  dinner,  put  in.  the  lamb  chops,  with  some  green 
peas ;  boil  the  potatoes  separately. 

Scotch  Broth. 

3  pounds  of  the  scrag  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton. 

1  onion. 

1  small  turnip. 

A  little  parsley. 

A  little  thyme. 

Put  the  mutton  in  the  pan  and  cover  with  two  quarts  cold 

water,  add  the  vegetables  and  not  quite  one  teacup  rice  ;  one 

small  carrot  and  a  little  celery  added  will  give  a  nice  flavor. 

When  it  boils,  skim   carefully,  cover   the  pan,  and   let  it 

simmer  for  two  hours.     Of  course,  the  vegetables  must  be  cut 

small. 

Meat  Loaf. 

Chop  fine  whatever  cold  meat  you  may  have,  fat  and  lean  to- 
gether ;  add  pepper  and  salt,  one  finely  chopped  onion,  two 
slices  of  bread  which  have  been  soaked  in  milk,  and  one  egg. 

Mix  well  together  and  bake  in  a  form.  This  makes  an 
admii*able  tea  or  breakfast  dish. — Mrs,  c/I 

Black  Stew. 

Take  any  kind  of  fresh  meat  that  has  been  boiled  or  roasted, 
cut  up  enough  to  make  a  dish  ;  put  one  tablespoonful  currant 
jelly,  one  tablespoonful  of  wine,  one  large  spoonful  butter,  one- 
half  onion  chopped,  pepper  and  salt. 

Stir  all  together  fifteen  minutes.  Pickle  cut  up  is  an  improve- 
ment, and  brown  sugar  can  be  used  instead  of  currant  jelly. — 

Mt9  J.  T. 

A  NICE  Side-dish. 

M«ike  a  mince  meat  of  turkey  ;  after  it  is  stewed  put  boiled 


MEAT  CROQUETTES — CHICKEN  CROQUETTE}^.      217 

rice  arotind  the  dish  and  set  it  in  an  oven  to  brown.     Then  gar- 
nish with  hard  boiled  eggs. — Mrs,  £J.  I. 

Meat  Croquettes. 

Any  nice  cold  meat  when  nicely  minced  will  make  good 
croquettes,  especially  veal.  Take  about  one-quarter  loaf  bread, 
well  soaked  in  water  and  squeezed  dry ;  mix  with  the  minced 
meat  about  one  dessertspoonful  chopped  parsley,  one  dessert- 
spoonful ground  ginger,  three  eggs,  a  pinch  of  ground  mace, 
pepper  and  salt,  roll  them  into  egg-sliaped  balls ;  have  ready 
two  or  three  eggs  well  beaten,  in  one  plate,  and  flour  in  another ; 
first  roll  in  the  flour,  then  in  the  egg,  fry  in  boiling  diippings  ; 
serve  hot.— .Ifr^.  T. 

CUOQUSTTES. 

Take  cold  fowl  or  fresh  meat  of  any  kind,  with  slices  of  fat 
ham ;  chop  together  very  fine,  add  one-half  as  much  stale  bread 
grated,  salt  and  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  cat- 
sup, one  teaspoonful  made  mustard,  and  lump  of  butter  size  of 
an  egg.  Mix  well  together  till  it  resembles  sausage  meat ; 
mould  them  into  cakes,  dip  into  well  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg, 
cover  thickly  with  grated  bread.     Fry  a  light  brown. — Mrs, 

Croquettes, 

Boil  or  roast  a  turkey,  chop  the  meat  as  fine  as  possible. 
Mix  eight  beaten  eggs  with  the  meat,  add  one  quart  of  milk, 
one-quarter  pound  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  mace. 

Stew  all  together  for  a  few  minutes,  then  take  it  off  to  cool 
and  make  into  little  cone  sliapes.  Roll  each  one  into  pounded 
crackers  and  drop  in  boiling  lard  till  a  light  brown. — Mrs,  M. 
JS.  L.  W.,  Md, 

Chicken  Croquettes. 

Cold  chicken,  chopped  parsley,  a  little  cream,  grated  crackers, 
lemon  flavoring,  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  chickeu  >ery  fine  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  add  chopped  pavsloy,  moisten  with 


218  POTATO  OROQU15TTK8— OROQURTTKS. 

cream  sufficient  to  make  paste  ;  mould  in  a  wineglass  with  grated 
cracker  or  bread  crumbs  on  outside.  Fry  quickly  in  hot  lard. 
Brown  lightly.  Lemon  flavoring  can  be  added  at  will. — JHfi's, 
G.  P. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  one  quart  potatoes,  mix  with  yolks  of 
four  eggs  and  some  milk. 

Set  on  the  fire,  stir  two  minutes ;  set  on  a  dish  to  cool  or  leave 
overnight.  In  the  morning  add  a  little  milk,  mix  thoroughly, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs ;  divide  in  cakes  and  fry  in  lard.  Take 
off  when  done ;  drain,  dish,  and  serve  immediately. — Mrs.  JBS, 

Croquette  Balls. 

Chop  up  one  quart  of  any  cold  meat  wery  fine,  to  which  add 
one  pint  stale  bread.  Mix  up  one  egg,  mustard,  pepper,  salt 
and  butter,  and  pour  over  the  bread  and  meat ;  roll  into  balls, 
which  must  be  rolled  into  the  white  of  an  egg,  tlien  into  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  a  nice  brown.  This  is  a  nice  side-dish  for 
breakfast  or  tea. — Mrs,  /SI   G, 

Croquettes. 

Have  some  nice  pieces  of  veal  or  fowl,  chopped  fine,  season 
with  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 

Boil  one-half  pint  milk  with  one  small  garlic.  Thicken  Mrith 
two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  one  tablespoonful  butter. 

Let  it  remain  till  thoroughly  done  ;  stir  in  the  meat  and  then 
form  the  croquettes.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs,  then  the  yolk  of 
an  e^^  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  nice  brown. — Miss  E.  P. 

Croquettes, 

Take  cold  meat  or  fresh  meat,  with  grated  ham,  fat  and  lean, 
chopped  very  fine— add  one-half  as  much  stale  bread  grated, 
salt,  pe])per,  and  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  catsup,  a  lump  of 
butter. 

Knead  all  well  together — if  not  soft  enough  add  cream  or 


8A1T8AOE  OfiOQUBTTBe — ^ICINOB  WITH  BSEAD  CRDKBS.    219 

gra^.  Make  in  cakes  the  shape  of  a  pear ;  dip  them  in  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten^  roll  in  dried  bread  crumbs,  and  fi  j  a 
light  brown. — Miss  M.  C.  L. 

Sausage  Croquettes. 

2  pounds  of  meat. 

4  eggs. 

1  cup  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 
Add  powderod  cracker  or  stale  bread  crumbs  sufficient  to 
thicken,  while  on  the  fire.     Roll  in  oblong  shapes  and  fry  in 
lard.     HoU  the  balls  in  cracker  dust  before  frying. — Mrs.  R, 

K.M. 

Sausage  Croquettes. 

One  pound  sausage  meat,  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  bread 
crumbs  well  minced. 

Make  the  meat  into  cakes,  then  roll  in  the  beaten  egg,  and 
afterwards  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  pan  and  serve  hot.  Cold 
ham  served  in  the  same  ^ay  is  delicious  ;  mince  it  very  fine. — 
Mrs.  Q. 

Forcemeat  Balls. 

One  pound  of  fresh  suet,  one  ounce  ready  dressed  veal,  ot 
chicken  chopped  fine,  bread  crumbs,  a  little  shallot  or  onion,  salt 
and  pepper  (white),  nutmeg ;  parsley  and  thyme,  finely  shred. 

Beat  as  many  eg^,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  as  will  make 
the  above  ingredients  into  a  moist  paste ;  roll  into  small  balls, 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  When  of  a  light  brown,  take  out  with 
a  perforated  skimmer.  Forcemeat  balls  made  in  this  way  are 
remarkably  light,  but  being  somewhat  greasy,  some  persons 
prefer  them  with  less  suet  and  eggs. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

Mince  with  Bread  Crumbs. 

Chop  up  any  kind  of  cold  meat  very  fine,  place  in  a  baking 
dish  a  lajer  of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  lump  of  butter, 
black  pepper,  and  salt. 


220  MINCE    WITH    POTATOES — HABU. 

Then  a  layer  of  minced  meat,  and  so  on  with  alternate  layers, 
till  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  over  all  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  and 
be  sure  to  have  enough  lumps  of  butter  to  make  it  rich.  Bake 
until  it  is  a  good  brown  on  top. — Mrs,  C,  M,  A, 

Mince  with  Potatoes. 

Chop  fine  any  cold  meat;  parboil  enough  Iiish  potatoes  to  be 
two- thirds  as  many  as  thei*e  is  chopped  meat.  Mix  all  together 
with  one  raw  egg,  one  onion,  black  pepper,  and  salt. 

Fry  with  butter,  either  in  large  or  small  cakes  in  a  pan,  the 
cakes  rather  larger  than  sausages.  If  you  have  cold  ham,  it  is 
an  advantage  to  add  some  of  it  to  the  mince ;  and  the  whole  is 
very  nice  made  of  cold  pickled  beef. — Mt%,  C.  M,  A, 

Pot  Pourbi. 

Take  any  kind  of  fresh  meat  chopped  fine,  and  put  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  little  warm  water,  pepper  and  salt,  and  chopped 
onion.  Cook  twenty  minutes;  then  put  into  a  baking-dish 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  and  pour  over  a  cup 
of  sweet  cream.     Biake  t«o  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  F.  D, 

Hash. 

One  and  one-half  teacup  of  boiling  water  must  be  poured 
into  a  saucepan,  mix  one  heaping  spoonful  flour  with  one  table- 
spoonful  cold  water,  stir  it  in  and  boil  three  minutes.  Then 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  salt,  half  a  small  teaspoonful  pepper,  and 
butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Aftor  removing  all  tough,  gristly  pieces  from  the  cold  cooked 
meat,  chop  it  fine  with  some  boiled  potatoes.  Put  them  in  the 
dressing,  heat  through,  then  serve.  It  injures  meat  to  cook 
it  agaiuy  making  it  hard  and  unpalatable.  Should  you  have 
any  cold  gravy  left,  use  it;  in  that  case  you  will  require  less 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  You  can  serve  it  with  buttered  toast 
underneath,  or  you  may  set  it  into  the  oven  to  brown  on  top. 


0A88A   BOLLS — ^MOOK  TBBBAPIK.  221 

or  drop  eggs  into  a  skillet  of  boiling  salt  water,   and   when 
cooked,  place  on  top  of  hash. — Mrs.  tT, 

Cassa  Rolls. 

Boil  some  Irish  potatoes  until  quite  done,  mash  them  smooth 
and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  salt  meat  chopped  fine.  Mix 
with  thifl  several  well  beaten  eggs,  one  spoonful  butter,  some 
pepper  and  salt. 

Bake  in  little  cakes  like  potato  cakes. — Mrs.  F.  J). 

Eao6ut  Sousb. 

Split  four  feet  once,  fry  with  one  or  two  dozen  large  oysters, 
a  light  brown.  Lay  them  in  a  stewpan  over  the  liquor  from 
the  oysters,  or  some  beef  or  veal  gravy ;  add  one  large  spoonful 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  one  dozen  allspice,  beaten,  one  glass  red 
wine,  one  glass  walnut  catsup,  and  pepper. 

Stew  gently  until  dinner,  skimming  off  any  grease.  Garni.sh 
with  hard-boiled  eggs.  Mace  or  cloves  may  be  used  instead  of 
allspice. — Mrs.  JB. 

Breakfast  Dish. 

Take  the  remnant  of  any  cold  meats,  either  boiled  or  roasted. 
Prepare  it,  as  if  for  chicken  salad,  in  fine  shreds.  Mix  with 
potatoes  mashed  fine,  and  add  two  well- beaten  eggs. 

Season  with  butter,  pe'pper,  and  other  spices  if  you  like. 

Make  it  into  a  loaf  and  bake  it  brown,  or  fry  it  in  cakes  if 
preferred. — Mrs,  Jf.  -Z<I  G. 

Mock  Terrapin. 

Mince  cold  veal  very  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  cayenne. 
Mash  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls 
cooking  wine,  three  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  milk,  a  little  nut- 
meg and  a  little  mixed  mustard,  a  large  lump  of  butter  with  a 
little  flour  rubbed  in. 

Let  all  steam  ^y^  minutes,  and  serve  hot  on  toast 

A  nioe  relish  for  breakfast  or  lunch. — Miss  E.  X,  Im. 


222  bbbakfabt  di8r — pillau. 

Bbeakfast  Pish. 

One  pound  pork  sausage,  one  tablespoonful  pounded  crackersi 
two  well  beaten  eggs.  Work  thoroughly  together,  and  make 
into  cakes.  These  will  be  rather  soft,  but  di'opping  each  one 
into  a  plate  of  pounded  or  grated  cracker  will  enable  you  to 
handle  them.  Put  into  a  hot  frying-pan.  No  lard  is  to  bo 
used,  but  keep  the  pan  covered  while  frying. — Miss  M. 

Baked  Hash. 

Take  oold  beef  or  veal,  chop  the  meat  very  fine,  put  it  in  a 
pan  with  some  water;  add  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  bread 
crumbs  to  taste.  Season  with  a  little  chopped  onion,  parsley 
and  thyme,  all  minced  fine,  half  a  cup  milk  or  cream  with  one 
egg  beaten.  Grate  some  crumbs  over  the  top,  and  bake  till 
brown. — Mrs,  J'.  S,  F. 


Sandwiches. 

Grate  one  quarter  poimd  cold  ham  in  a  bowl,  with  one  tablo- 
spoonful  chopped  pickle,  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  a  little 
black  pepper,  six  dessertspoonfuls  butter ;  put  in  a  bowl  and 
stir  quickly  until  a  cream. 

Add  the  ham  and  seasoning,  mix  all  together  well.  Have 
slices  of  light  bread  and  spread  the  mixture  on  each  side  of  each 
slice. 

Oold  grated  tongue,  instead  of  ham,  is  very  nice  spread  on  the 
inside  of  biscuit. 

8omdwkhe». 

Mince  ham  and  tongue  together,  and  spread  between  buttered 
bread.  Add  a  little  French  mustard  to  the  mince  if  liked. — 
Mrs.  R. 

PiLLAU. 

Take  oold  fresh  meat,  either  chicken  or  veal,  and  out  it  up 
quite  small  after  taking  off  the  outer  skin  either  fat  or  gristle, 
it  well  with  some  oold  rice,  then  stir  this  in  a  batter  made 


calf's  head  fuddinq — no's  head  pudding.      22o 

of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  about  one  quai*t  milk.     Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Bake  in  a  deep  dish. — Mrs,  A,  JS. 

Calf's  Head  Puddinq. 

Skin  the  head,  take  out  the  brains.  Thoroughly  wash,  then 
Boak  the  head  one  night  to  extract  the  blood.  Put  on  in  cold 
water  and  boil  five  or  six  hours,  or  until  the  bones  are  ready  to 
drop  out.  Pick  it  very  line,  taking  all  the  bones  out ;  then  add 
the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  one  tablespoon ful  butter,  four 
^gs  well  beaten ;  one  small  piece  of  lemon  or  pickle ;  one  onion, 
if  liked  ;  pepper  and  salt 

Lay  the  brains  all  over  the  top  and  bake.  Bread  crumbs  are 
an  improvement.     The  liquor  seasoned  makes  excellent  soup. — 

Liver  Puddiko. 

Take  two  hog's  heads,  clean  nicely ;  two  livers,  two  lights,  and 
cut  all  the  good  part  off  half  a  dozen  milts  ;  half  a  dozen  sweet- 
breads ;  half  a  dozen  kidneys,  split  open. 

Put  all  together  in  a  tub  of  salt  and  water ;  let  them  soak 
all  night ;  take  them  out  next  morning,  put  them  in  a  kettle 
with  two  slices  of  fat  pork.  Let  all  boil  until  done,  then  take 
it  up  and  let  it  cool  a  little  and  grind  it  in  a  sausage  mill,  and 
while  grinding,  skim  some  of  the  grease  off  of  the  kettle  and 
pour  it  into  the  mill.  After  it  is  ground,  season  with  >lack 
pepper,  salt,  and  onions  chopped  fine,  to  suit  the  taste. 

If  it  is  not  rich  enough,  boil  more  middling  or  pork  and  mix 
with  the  meat ;  if  stuffed,  boil  again  a  few  minutes. 

Pig's  Head  Pudding. 

Boil  head  and  liver  until  perfectly  done,  cut  up  as  for  hash. 
Put  it  on  again  in  warm  water  and  season  highly  with  butter. 
pep])er,  salt,  and  a  little  chopped  onion. 

After  well  seasoned,  put  in  a  baking-dish  with  one  egg  beaten 


224  POTA'IX)   KB— CRUMB   PIE. 

light.     Bake  two  hours,  and  lay  over  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced, 
and  strips  of  pastry  across  the  top. 

Calfs  Head  Pudding  can  be  made  in  the  same  way. — Mrs. 
Col.  S, 

Potato   Pie. 

The  remains  of  cold  mutton,  either  roasted  or  boiled,  cut  into 
nice  slices,  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  also  sliced,  and  two  or  three 
potatoes,  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  and  pounded  mace  to  your 
taste. 

All  laid  alternately  in  a  baking-dish  and  filled  nearly  up 
with  any  gravy  or  stock  at  hand ;  cover  with  a  potato  crust,  full 
two  inches  thick,  and  bake  until  the  potatoes  are  a  nice  browu 
color.  If  the  potatoes  are  scratched  over  with  a  fork,  it  gives 
them  a  pretty,  rough  appearance.  To  make  the  crust,  boil  and 
mash  the  pot-atoes  with  a  little  butter  and  milk  and  a  small 
quantity  of  salt. — Mrs.  M.  P. 

A   Nice   Pie. 

One  pound  steak,  three  soft  crackers  rolled,  one  small  piece 
of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Bake 
in  a  deep  pan. — Mrs,  R, 

Potato  Pie. 

A  savory  potato  pie  is  made  thus :  A  layer  of  mashed  pota- 
toes placed  in  a  pie  dish  and  then  slices  of  any  cold  meat  (if 
chicken  or  veal,  slices  of  tongue  or  ham  may  be  added),  and 
herbs,  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkled  over  to  taste.  Continue  these 
layers  alternately  till  the  dish  is  full ;  the  potatoes  must  well 
cover  the  top,  which  should  have  some  butter  added,  and  be 
brushed  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  put  into  the  oven  tUl 
done  through.  A  little  butter  on  each  layer  is  needed  if  the 
meat  is  not  fat,  and  it  should  not  be  too  fat. — Mrs*  8. 

Crumb  Pie. 

Mince  any  cold  meat  very  finely,  season  it  to  taste,  and  pat 
it  into  a  pie  dish ;  have  sonie  finely  grated  bread  crumbs,  with  a 


HAGOIS — SQUAB  PIK.  225 

little  salty  pepper,  and  nutmeg;  and  pour  into  the  dish  any 
gravy  that  is  at  hand.  Cover  over  with  a  thick  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  and  put  small  pieces  of  butter  over  top.  Place  in  the 
oven  till  a  tine  brown.     Send  to  the  table  hot. — Mrs.  W. 

Haogis. 

Out  cold  beef  in  pieces  and  mix  with  mashed  potatoes ;  fill  a 
baking-dish  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  Bake  and 
serve  hot. 

Cold  Chicken  with  Vinegar. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  in  fine  pieces  and  crack  the  bones.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper ;  put  it  in  a  deep  baking  plate  with  a 
lump  of  butter,  and  one  tablespoonful  vinegar.  Cover  it  with 
hot  water.  Put  a  plate  over  it  and  stew  on  a  stove  or  over  hot 
embers.  Add  one  heaping  teacup  chopped  celery  to  the  mixture 
before  cooking. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

Devilled  Cold  Chicken. 

Take  the  legs  and  wings  of  any  cold  fowl. 

Dress  with  pepper,  salt,  mustard,  and  butter ;  then  broil. 

GiBLET  Pie. 

Made  as  chicken  pie,  adding  livers  of  chicken  or  pigeon, 
which  have  been  boiled  in  the  water  left  from  cooking ;  celery 
and  sweet  herbs.  Season  with  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup. — 
Mrs.  T. 

Squab  Pie. 

After  the  squabs  are  picked  and  drawn  as  a  large  fowl  is  for 

roasting,  wash  them  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  close 

cover.     They  should  be  covered  with  boiling  water  and  boiled 

slowly  till  tender,  when  a  little  salt  and  an  onion  clove  should 

be  added.     Then  take  them  out,  drain  and  dry,  and  put  in  each 

squab  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  minced  parsley 

and  thyme.     Then  put  into  the  cavity  of  each  squab,  a  hard- 
10* 


226  BEEF  0AKB8 — ^BEj£F8TBAK  AND  F0TAT0K8. 

boiled  egg.  Lay  them  in  a  large,  round,  earthen  baking  dish| 
three  or  four  inches  deep.  Strain  orer  them  the  liquor  in 
which  thej  were  simmered.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
a  teacup  of  milk  or  cream.  Sift  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cracker  crumbs  not  browned,  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley 
and  thyme,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  in  a  few  slips  of  pastry. 
Cover  with  a  rich  crust  and  bake. 

The  same  recipe  will  answer  for  robins,  except  that  the  eggs 
must  be  chopped,  instead  of  being  placed  whole  in  the  cavity  of 
the  bird.— Mrs.  S.  T. 

Beef  Cakes. 

Chop  pieces  of  roast  beef  very  fine.  Mix  up  grated  bread 
crumbs,  chopped  onions,  and  parsley ;  season  vrith  peppoi  and 
salfc,  moisten  with  a  little  dripping  or  catsup. 

Cold  ham  or  tongue  may  be  added  to  improve  it. 

Make  in  broad,  flat  cakes,  and  spread  a  coat  of  mashed  pota 
toes  on  the  top  and  bottom  of  each.     Lay  a  piece  of  butter  on 
every  cake  and  put  it  in  an  oven  to  brown. 

Other  cold  meats  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  for 
a  breakfast  dish. — Mrs.  D. 

Fish  and  Potatoes. 

Boil  salmon  or  other  fish ;  mash  up  boiled  Ldsh  potatoes ; 
chop  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Mix  all  together  with  butter ;  make  very  hot,  and  keep  it  so 
at  table. — Mrs.  R. 

Beefsteak  akd  Potatoes. 

Cut  up  in  a  stewpan,  with  cold  water,  and  stew  till  well 
cooked,  the  steak  you  will  use;  mash  some  potatoes  with 
creamed  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Line  a  baking  dish  with  it  and  put  in  the  steak,  seasoning 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.     Bake  a  little  while. 


BAOON  FBAI81S — MAOABONL  227 

Bacon  Fraisb. 

Take  a  nice  piece  of  middling  about  six  inches  square,  pare 
off  the  skin  and  cut  in  small  square  pieces,  then  fry  it.  Make 
a  batter  of  three  pints  flour,  five  eggs,  one  handful  paralej, 
chopped  fine.  Beat  all  light  and  fry  with  bacon.  Serve 
hot.     This  will  make  two  dishes. — Jfrs.  M,  D. 

Italian  manner  of  Cooking  Macaroni. 

One  and  a  half  pound  macaroni,  parboiled  with  a  little  salt, 
and  one  clove  garlic.  One  pound  of  beef  chopped  fine,  lean 
and  fat  stewed  with  one  pint  tomatoes. 

Alternate  layers  of  macaroni  and  the  stewed  beef  with 
grated  cheese.  Add  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  a  little 
wine. 

A  thick  layer  of  grated  cracker  crumbs  and  cheese  on  top. 
Serve  with  a  stand  of  grated  Stilton  cheese. — Mtb,  R,  R. 

Macaroni. 

Break  into  pieces  one  inch  long  and  put  in  the  dish  you 
wish  to  fill,  filling  it  only  one-third  full.  Wash  well  and  boil 
in  a  covered  stewpan  until  soft  and  tender,  drain  off  all  the 
water ;  cover  with  this  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle 
over  pepper  and  salt^  grated  cracker,  bits  of  butter  and  grated 
cheese;  then  another  layer  of  macaroni,  etc.,  in  the  same 
order.  When  the  dish  is  filled,  pour  over  fresh  milk  until  all 
is  barely  covered.  Sifi«  over  pounded  cracker  and  set  in  the 
oven.  If  it  becomes  too  brown,  sift  over  more  cracker  before 
serving. — Mt9,  S,  T, 

Mauoar&ni, 

Boil  one-half  pound  macaroni  in  water,  with  salt,  one  small 
onion  and  two  blades  mace. 

Put  in  one  sweetbread,  chopped  fine,  or  the  same  amount  of 
fresh  veal,  the  nice  part  being  taken. 

Boil  till  tender  before  taking  it  up,  drain  off  the  wuter  and 
add  one  large  spoonful  butter,  one-half  pint  milk,  a  quantity  of 


228  MAOARONI — HOMINT  OUOQUETTES. 

grated  clieese ;  one  teaspoonful  mustard ;  two  teaspoonfuls  black 
pepper^  one  pint  skinned  tomatoes,  salt  to  the  taste ;  one  egg, 
beaten  up,  is  a  great  improvement. 

Butter  a  deep  dish  and  bake  the  macaroni  a  light  brown. 
Have  it  served  with  a  small  bowl  of  grated  cheese,  of  the  best 
<|  lality,  BO  that  each  one  may  add  what  they  like. — Mrs.  M.  C* 

Maccvroni. 

Parboil  enough    macaroni  to  make  a  dish ;    lay   alternate 

layers  of   macaroni,   and   grated  cheese.       Season    with  salt, 

pepper,  and  butter ;  add  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  enough 

milk  to  fill  a  dish.     Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  top  and  bake. 

— Mr8.  H,  A, 

Macaroni, 

To  one  and  one-half  pound  macaroni,  add  one  pound  beef, 
chopped  fine.  Make  a  stew  of  the  beef  with  one  quart  water, 
one  clove  of  garlic,  catsup,  tomato,  or  walnut,  to  suit  the  taste, 
one  dessertspoonful  currant  jelly,  salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  the  macaroni ;  put  in  a  pan  a  layer  of  macaroni  and  a 
layer  of  cheese,  with  plenty  of  butter,  using  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  for  the  dish. 

Then  pour  the  stew  over  the  top,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. — 

Miss  M,  B.  B. 

To  Boil  Hominy. 

Take  two  quarts  of  hominy,  wash  through  several  waters 
until  the  water  is  clear ;  put  it  on  to  boil  in  a  pot  half  full  of 
water,  with  a  plate  turned  down  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  to 
prevent  its  burning.  Boil  for  six  hours— do  not  stir  it;  when 
done,  take  off  the  vessel  and  set  it  aside  in  a  cool  place.  When 
it  is  ready  to  fry,  put  a  little  lard  in  the  pan,  let  it  get  hot, 
and  mash  in  the  hominy  ;  then  add  a  little  salt.  Put  it  in  the 
pan  and  press  down ;  let  it  fry  till  brown,  turning  it  upside 
down  on  the  dish. — Mrs,  P.  W, 

HoMiMY  Croquettes. 
To  one  cup  cold  boiled  hominy,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  melted 


FSIBD   HOMINT — SWSETBBEAD,   MUSHROOM  PATi:S.        229 

butter,  and  stir  it  well,  adding  by  degrees  one  cup  milk,  till  all 
is  made  in  a  soft  liglit  paste ;  adding  one  well-beaten  es^g. 

Roll  into  oval  balls  with  floured  hands ;  dip  in  beaten  egg; 
then  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs,  M. 

Fried  Hominy. 
Warm  the  boiled  hominy ;  add  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little  salt^ 
half  a  pint  cream,  two  eggs,  and  flour  enough  to  stiffen  the  iiiixt- 
nre.     Fry  like  mashed  potatoes. — Mrs,  JS. 

To  Boil  Hominy. 

Soak  in  hot  water  the  overnight.  Next  morning  wash  out 
in  two  waters  and  boil  thoroughly.  A  little  milk  added  to  the 
water  whitens  and  seasons  it. — Mrs,  W, 

To  Stew,  Fry,  or  Broil  Mushrooms. 

After  you  have  j^eeled  them,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  put  tliem  in  a  stewpan  with  a  Httle  water  and  lump  of 
butter.  Let  them  boil  fast  for  ten  minutes  and  stir  in  a  thick- 
ening of  flour  and  cream.  Tliey  may  be  broiled  on  a  gridiron, 
and  seasoned  with  butter.  Fry  them  also  in  butter.  The  largo 
mushrooms  are  used  for  the  two  latter  modes  of  cooking  them. 

— jifr*.  a  a 

Sweetbread  and  Mushroom  Pat^s. 

Ten  sweetbreads,  parboiled,  skinned  and  all  the  fat  removed ; 
cut  into  small  jneces.  Add  one  even  teaspoonful  salt,  one  can  of 
French  muslnooms.  Slice  thin,  add  to  juice  one  toasjioonful 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  pepj^er,  one  saltspoonful  powdered  macr, 
lump  of  butter  size  of  guinea  eg**. 

Simmer  slowly  twenty  minutes.  Add  sweetbreads  dredged 
with  one  heaping  spoonful  corn  starch,  well  mixed  in  tlu? 
sweetbread.  T^t  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  to  prevent  sticking. 
Serve  in  puflT  paste  sliapes,  hot.  A  little  chopped  parsley  may 
oe  added  — 3fr8.  R,  R, 


S30  TO   BTEW  MUSHROOUS — FONDis. 

To  Stew  Mushrooms. 

One  pint  muBhroom  buttons,  three  ounces  fresh  butter,  pe|>- 
per  and  salt  to  taste,  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoonful  flour,  cieaiu 
or  milk  a  little  nutmeg. 

Pare  the  mushrooms,  put  them  into  a  basin  of  water  with  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Take  them  from  the  water,  put  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  the  above  ingredients.  Cover  the  pan  closely  and  let 
them  stew  gently  twenty  minutes.  If  the  mushrooms  are  not 
perfectly  tender,  stew  them  five  minutes  longer ;  remove  every 
particle  of  butter  which  may  be  floating  on  top,  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  a  C. 

Broiled  Mushrooms. 

Cleanse  the  lai'ge  mushrooms  by  wiping  with  flannel  and  a 
little  salt.  Cut  off  stalks  and  peel  the  tops ;  broil  them  over  a 
dear  fire,  turning  them  once.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish.  Put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  on  each  mushroom,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt;  squeeze  over  them  a  little  lemon  juice.  Place  before 
the  fire,  and  when  the  butter  is  melted,  serve  quickly. — Mrs. 

c.  c. 

Fondle. 

2  ounces  butter. 

4  ounces  bread  crumbs. 
8  ounces  cheese. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  eggs. 

Cut  the  butter  and  cheese  into  small  pieces  and  place  them  in 
a  large  bowl  with  the  bread ;  on  this  pour  scalding  milk,  after 
which  add  the  yolks  well  beaten,  also  a  little  salt.  Mix  well 
together,  cover  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  range,  stirring 
occasionally,  till  all  is  dissolved ;  when  add  the  whites  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Place  in  a  buttered  pie-plate  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  us  soon  as  taken  from  the 
stove.  Mustard  ia  considered  by  some  an  improvement. — Mr$. 
IT,  B,  S, 


WELSH   RABEBrr — VRIRD   APPLES.  981 

Welsh  Rakebit. 

Cut  up  cheese  line  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  butter, 
add  one  or  two  spoonfuls  beer,  and  boil  till  the  cheese  is  well 
dissolved.  Cut  a  slice  of  bread,  pour  on  the  cheese ;  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  catsup. — Mrs.  S. 

Rice  and  Egg   Pat^s. 

Mix  cold  rice  with  well-beaten  eggs,  season  with  pepper,  and 
rait. 

Then  cook  like  scrambled  egg ;  don't  let  the  rice  bum. 

Tongue  and  Prunes. 

Get  a  fresh  beef  tongue,  parboil  and  skin  it.  Add  one 
pound  prunes,  one  pound  raisins,  one-quarter  pound  sugar, 
spices  to  the  taste. 

Let  it  stew  until  perfectly  well  cooked. 

When  neai*ly  done,  add  one  lemon. — Miss  M.  H,  JB. 

To  Stew  Dried  Apples,  Peaches,  Quinces,  or  Pears. 

Take  three  pounds  of  dried  fruit ;  wash  it  in  lukewarm  water, 
through  three  or  four  waters,  rubbing  it  hard.  Pour  on  this 
five  quarts  boiling  water ;  boil  at  least  three  hours.  Just  be- 
fore taking  from  the  fire,  add  two  teacups  nice  brown  sugar. 
Do  not  stir,  except  occasionally,  to  prevent  sticking  to  the 
bottom.  Try  to  cook  the  pieces  of  fruit  separate,  except  the 
apples,  which  run  through  a  colander  and  season  with  nutmeg. 
The  other  fruits  need  no  seasoning. — Mrs,  S,  T. 

Fried  Apples. 

Slice  apples  without  peeling ;  cut  and  fry  some  thin  slices  of 
breakfaist  bacon  until  thoroughly  done ;  remove  the  slices  from 
the  vessel,  adding  water  to  the  gravy  left.  Put  in  apples  and 
fry  until  done,  sweetening  to  taste. — Mrs.  Q,  B, 


288  6PI0BD   APPLES — EQQB. 

Spiced  Apples. 

8  pounds  apples  pared. 

4  pounds  sugar. 

1  quai*t  vinegar. 

1  ounce  stick  cinnamon. 

^  ounce  cloves. 
Boil  the  si.gary  vinegar,  and  spices  together ;  put  in  the  applec 
when  boiling,  and  let  them  remain  until  tender ;  then  take  them 
out  and  put  them  in  a  jar ;  boil  the  syrup  down,  and  pour  over 
them. 

Stewed  P&unes. 

Immediately  after  breakfast,  wash  two  pounds  prunes  in 
several  waters,  rubbing  them  in  the  hands. 

Put  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  one  gallon  boiling  water. 
Simmer  three  or  four  hours.  Add  two  teacups  light  brown 
sugar  and  boil  till  the  syrup  is  thick.  Keep  closely  covered 
and  do  not  stir,  so  each  prune  may  be  stewed  whole.  Put  in  a 
shallow  bowl  and  set  to  cool.  This  amount  will  make  two 
dishes. 

Excellent  side  dish  for  winter  or  spring. — 3fr8.  S.  T, 


-♦- 


EGGS. 

Properly  cooked,  eggs  are  very  wholesome  and  nutritious  diet. 
Always  be  certain,  however,  that  they  ai*e  fresh,  before  attempt- 
ing to  make  a  dish  of  them.  Some  persons  use  Krepp's  family 
egg-tester,  to  ascertain  if  an  6gg  is  sound.  Full  directions,  as  to 
the  mode  of  using  it,  accompany  the  egg  tester ;  so  it  is  unneces- 
sary to  give  them  hero.  A  simple  mode  of  testing  the  sound- 
ness of  an  egg,  is  to  put  it  in  water ;  and  if  fresh  it  wiU  sink  to 
the  bottom. 


boiled  e008 — boo  oufb,  a  bbbakfa8t  dibh.       233 

Boiled  Eoos. 

Let  the  water  be  boiling  when  you  put  the  eggs  in  it,  and  let 
the  eggs  boil  three  minutes  after  putting  them  in. — 3fr$.  JS.  T, 

Soft-boiled  Eogs. 

Put  the  eggs  in  a  large  tin  cup  or  any  tin  vessel  convenient. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and  let  them  remain  near  the 
fire,  five  minutes.  Do  not  let  them  boil.  Eggs  cooked  thus 
are  slightly  jellied  throughout.  They  can  be  kept  hot  without 
becoming  hard. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

Scrambled  Eogs. 

Beat  four  eggs  very  light.  Add  a  teacup  milk,  thickened 
with  a  teaspoonful  flour.  Have  the  pan  very  hot,  put  in  a 
tablespoonful  butter,  pour  in  the  eggs,  and  scramble  quickly. — 
Mrs.  E. 

Scrambled  Eggs, 

Wash  the  pan  with  hot  water  and  soap.  Wipe  dry.  Grease 
with  a  little  lard.  Break  into  this  the  eggs,  adding  a  lump  oi 
butter  and  a  little  salt     Stir  till  done. — Mrs.  P 

Eggs  fob  Breakfast. 

Heat  in  the  oven  a  common  white  dish,  large  enough  to  hold 
the  number  of  eggs  to  be  cooked,  allowing  plenty  of  room  for 
each.  Melt  in  it  a  small  piece  of  butter,  break  the  eggs,  one 
at  a  time,  carefully  in  a  saucer,  and  slip  them  in  the  hot  dish. 
Sprinkle  over  them  pepper  atid  salt,  and  let  them  cook  four  or 
five  minutes.  It  is  a  great  improvement  to  allow  to  every  two 
eggs  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  adding  it  when  the  eggs  are  first 
put  in. — Mrs.  A.  Jbf.  D. 

Egg  Cups — A  Breakfast  Dish. 

Boil   some  eggs  perfectly  hard.     Halve  them,  take  out  the 

yolks,  which  mix  smoothly  with  some  finely  chopped  or  ground 

ham  or  fowl,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  melted  butter 

20 


234  OMKLKTTB. 

or  salad  oil.  Out  a  piece  off  the  bottom  of  each  whito  hal^  to 
make  them  stand,  and  fill  each  with  a  chopped  mixture.  Make 
a  sauce  of  sweet  cream,  boiled  within  an  inner  saucepan,  and 
pour  over  the  eggs.  Decorate  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  sprigs 
of  curled  parsley. — Mrs,  A.  M,  2>. 

Omelette. 

Break  six  eggs  in  a  pan,  beat  them  well  together,  add 
half  a  gill  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  a  few 
sprigs  of  parsley  chopped  fine.  Beat  all  well  together. 
Have  the  cooking-pan  hot  enough  to  brown  the  butter.  Put 
in  half  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Pour  the  mixture  in  the  pan 
or  skillet  to  cook.  When  sufficiently  done,  roll  with  a  spoon 
and  turn  into  the  dish. — M%»9  JE.  P, 

Omdette, 

Boil  one  pint  milk  in  a  shallow  yessol. 

Beat  up  four  eggs  very  light ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
flour,  making  it  of  the  consistency  of  paste.  Put  this  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Have  a  pan  well  buttered,  into  which  turn  the 
mixture,  and  set  inside  an  oven  to  bake  a  light  brown.  Serve 
immediately. — Mrs,  J,  D. 

Omelette. 

6  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

2  ounces  butter. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Ohopped  parsley  or  celery. 
Fry  a  light  brown  in  a  well  buttered  pan.     Some  minoed 
ham  oi  oysters  improve  the  flavor. — Mrs,  R. 

Omdette, 

4  eggs  beaten  separately. 

3  tablespoonfuls  cream. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

—Mrs,  G.  W,  jP. 


OHSLirrTE   80I7FFl£ — OBRMAN   OMBLKTTB.  236 

Omelette  SouFFLi. 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  xerj  light. 
Put  on  the  stoye  a  teacup  milk  with  a  piece  of  butter  in  it 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  mix  in  one 
tablespoonful  com  starch.  Mix  this  with  the  yolks,  add  salt 
to  the  taste,  then  stir  in  slowly  the  whites.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
pudding  dish,  fifteen  minutes,  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs,  M.  E. 
L,  W. 

Mock  Omelette. 

Two  onps  bread  crumbs  soaked  all  night  in  one  and  one-half 
cup  milk.  Add,  next  morning,  three  eggs,  whites  lightly 
stirred  in ;  pepper,  one  teaspoouful  salt. — Mrs.  JS.  W, 

Ham  Omelette. 

1  ounce  minced  ham. 

A  little  pepper. 

Eggs  beaten  very  light  and  fried  in  lard. 

--Miss  E.  W. 

Cheese  Omelette. 

3  eggs  beaten  to  a  thick  froth. 

\  teacup  grated  cracker. 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese. 
Cook  in  a  frying-pan  with  butter. 
Some  persons  add  chopped  thyme  and  parsley. — Mrs.  P, 

German  Omelette. 

3  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately). 

Mix  thoroughly  one-half  teacup  milk  and  oue  teaspoonful  of 
flour.  Then  add  it  to  the  yolks  (well  beaten)  together  with  a 
little  salt.  Pour  this  mixture  into  a  moderately  hot  pan, 
greased  with  butter.  When  this  is  nearly  done  (which  will  be 
in  about  five  minutes),  add  the  whites,  stiffiy  frothed  and  slightly 
salted,  spreading  them  over  the  whole  surfieuse.  Kun  a  kiiifc  care- 
fully around  the  edges,  and  turn  into  a  heated  dish  when  done. 


236  FOAOHBD  BGG9 — HAM  AND  BG08. 

It  is  an  improvement  to  mix  one-third  of  the  frothed  whitea 
with  the  yolks  before  pouring  into  the  pan. — Mrs,  M,  C.  C 

Poached  Egos. 

Let  the  eggs  be  perfectly  fresh,  and  the  pan  at  least  twc 
inches  deep  in  boiling  water.  Break  the  eggs  carefully,  just 
over  the  water  or  in  a  spoon,  so  that  they  may  be  slipped  into 
thd  water  with  their  shape  preserved.  Take  them  up  in  a  large 
perforated  spoon,  cover  with  fresh  melted  butter  and  spiinkle 
with  salt-^never  pepper,  as  some  persons  do  not  use  it,  and  it 
mars  the  appearance  of  the  dish. — Mrs.  S,  T. 

Egos  with  Toast.     {A  Spring  Dish.) 

Cut  bread  in  squares,  and  toast  a  light  brown.  Poach  eggs 
nicely,  place  each  one  on  a  piece  of  toast.  Pour  melted  butter 
over  them,  and  serve. — Mrs.  8.  T, 

Rumble  Egos. 

Beat  up  three  eggs  with  two  ounces  fresh  butter  or  well 
washed  salt  butter.  Add  a  toaspoonful  cream  or  new  milk. 
Put  all  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  over  the  fire  five  minutes.  When 
it  rises  up,  dish  it  immediately  on  toast. — Mrs,  S. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Slice  the  ham  rather  thick.  Fry  in  a  hot  pan.  Before  it 
becomes  hard,  take  from  the  pan  and  lay  in  a  dish  over  a  vessel 
of  hot  water. 

Let  the  pan  remain  on  the  fire,  so  as  to  keep  the  ham  gravy 
hot,  that  it  may  cook  the  eggs  nicely  when  dropped  into  it. 
Break  the  eggs  carefully,  drop  them  in  whole,  and  do  not  let 
them  touch  each  other.  Cook  a  light  brown,  not  allo¥Erin|f 
the  yolks  to  get  hard.  Lay  an  egg  on  each  slice  of  meat. 
Mrs.  8.  T. 


HAM    AJSiD   EGG   PUDDING- -STUFFBD   EGGS.  237 

Ham  and  Eoo  Pudding.    (A  Spring  Dish.) 

6  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

A  light  pint  of  flour. 

A  pint  of  milk. 

A  small  piece  of  butter. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Sprinkle  some  slices  of  boiled  bam  (both  fat  and  lean)  with 

pepper^  and  lay  them  across  a  deep  dish  that  has  been  greased. 

Then  pour  the  pudding  batter  over  the  bacon  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  V.  P.  M. 

Eggs  1  la  Cr£me. 

Six  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine,  and  stale  bread.  Put 
in  a  dish  alternate  layers  of  chopped  egg  and  grated  bread. 
When  the  dish  is  full,  pour  on  one  pint  boiling  milk  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Bake  a  light 
brown. — Miss  N", 

Baked  Eggs  for  Dinner. 

Have  ready  eight  or  ten  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  cup  of  light 
grated  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  in  a 
buttered  pudding  dish  a  layer  of  sliced  eggs,  dotted  with  bits  of 
butter,  and  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper ;  next  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  so  on  to  the  top,  being  careful  to  let  the  top 
layer  be  of  bread  crumbs. — Mrs,  A.M,  D, 

Egg  Pie. 

Take  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  slice,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter,  bake  in  a  paste,  top  and  bottom. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

BoU  six  eggs  very  hard.  Peel  them,  and  after  having  sliced 
a  bit  off  of  each  end  to  make  them  stand  well,  cut  in  halves  and 
extn)ot  the  yolks.  Rub  up  the  yolks  with  a  pinch  of  pepper 
and  salt,  melted  butter,  bread  crumbs,  and  finely  chopped 
celery.  Fill  in  the  whites  nicely,  stand  on  end  in  the  pan,  laj 
bits  of  butter  on  each  egg  and  bake. — Mrs.  Z>.  P. 


338  VIBGBTABLES — TO  OOOK  A8PAAAOU8. 

VEGETABLES. 

If  possible,  use  vegetables  gathered  early  in  the  moming,  with 
the  dew  on  them.  It  is  even  better  to  gather  them  late  the 
evening  before,  with  the  evening  dew  on  them  (setting  them  iE 
the  ioe-house  or  some  cool  place),  than  to  gather  them  after  the 
moming  sun  has  grown  hot.  If  you  are  living  in  the  city,  get 
your  vegetables  from  market  as  early  in  the  moming  as  possible. 

As  soon  as  gathered  or  brought  from  market,  all  vegetablen 
should  be  carefully  picked  over,  washed,  placed  in  fresh  water, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  the  cook  is  ready  to  put  them  on  for 
dinner. 

Put  them  on  in  water  neither  cold  nor  boiling  hot.  Tho  slow 
heating  that  takes  place  when  you  put  them  on  in  cold  water 
depiives  them  of  their  flavor,  to  some  extent,  whilst  too  rapid 
heating  toughens  the  vegetable  fibre. 

Just  before  they  are  thoroughly  done  and  tender,  add  suffi- 
cient salt  to  season  them.  Do  not  stir  them  and  mutilate  them 
with  a  spoon,  but  turn  them  into  a  colander  and  drain.  Place 
them  in  a  hot  dish  and  put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  outter 
over  them. 

In  cooking  dried  peas  and  beans,  as  well  as  corn,  put  up  in 

brine,   always   soak  them  the  overnight.      These   vegetables 

should  first  be  parboiled,  whether  they  are  to  be  used  for  soup 

or  for  side  dishes. 

To  Boil  Green  Peas. 

Early  in  the  morning,  either  buy  the  peas  from  market  or 
have  them  gathered  in  your  garden,  while  the  dew  is  on  them. 
Shell  and  lay  in  cold  water  till  half  an  hour  before  dinner.  Then 
put  in  boiling  water  and  boil  steadily  a  half  hour.  Add  a  little 
salt,  just  before  taking  from  the  fire.  Dm«,  add  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  fresh  butter  and  put  in  a  covered  dish. — Mrs.  8.  T. 

To  Cook  Asparagus. 
Ab  soon  as  you  get  the  asparagus  from  market  or  your  gar 


TO  COOK  ASPABAQUS — ^TO  FRY  ONIONS.  289 

den,  throw  into  salt  and  water,  after  scraping  the  outer  skin 
and  tying  up  in  bunches.  Put  on  to  boil  one  hour  before  din- 
ner. Afier  boiling  thirty  minutes,  drain,  cut  in  pieces  half  an 
inch  long,  and  put  in  the  saucepan  with  enough  milk  to  cover 
them.  Just  before  serving,  add  one  tablespoouful  fresh  butter, 
in  which  one  teaspoonful  flour  has  been  rubbed.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper. — Mr9,  S,  T. 

To  Cook  Aaparagus, 

Wash  well,  scrape,  cut  off  the  tough  end,  tie  up  in  bunches 
and  put  in  boiling  water  with  a  spoonful  of  salt.  Boil  thirty 
minutes  or  tiU  tender.  Lay  it  on  slices  of  toast  in  a  dish,  pour 
melted  butter  over  it,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs,  P.  W. 

To  Boil  Beets. 

Wash  them.  Do  not  break  or  cut  the  roots.  Leave  an  inch 
of  the  tops,  so  that  the  color  and  juice  cannot  escape.  Boil  hard 
for  two  hours.  When  tender,  slice  them,  sprinkling  over  them 
sugar,  then  butter  and  salt  to  the  taste.  Sugar  is  the  greatest 
improvement. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

To  Bake  Onions. 

Boil  six  onions  in  water,  or  milk  and  water  with  a  seasoning 
of  pepper  and  salt.  When  done  enough  to  mash,  take  them 
olF,  mash  them  with  butter,  grate  bread  crumbs  over  them  and 
set  them  to  bake.  Or  place  them  whole  in  the  baking  dish 
with  butter  and  bread  crumbs. 

To  Cook  Onions. 

Boil  till  tender,  in  milk  and  water.     Pour  melted  butter 

over  them,  and  serve  ;  or  chop  up  and  stew  with  a  little  milk, 

butter,  and  salt 

To  Fry  Onions. 

Wash  and  slice  them.  Chop  fine,  put  in  a  frying-pan  and 
cover  with  water.     Simmer  till  the  water  is  dried  up,  then  fry 


240  TO  DRESS  RAW   ONIONS — ^TO  STEW  OYMLINQS. 

brown,  with  a  large  slioe  of  fat  pork.     Add  pepper  and  salt.-— 

To  Dress  Raw  Onions. 

Slioe  and  chop  fine,  and  put  in  weak  salt  and  water  till  just 
before  dinner.  Then  drain  off  and  dress  with  half  a  teacup 
vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
made  mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  salt. 

Lay  a  large  lump  of  ice  on  top,  and  garnish  with  curled  par- 
sley ;  which,  eaten  after  onions,  is  said  to  remove  the  scent  from 
the  breath. — Mrs.  8,  T. 

Radishes. 

As  soon  as  taken  from  the  ground,  put  in  cold  water.  Then 
put  red  and  white  radishes  alternately  in  a  dish  of  fanciful  de- 
sign, ornamenting  with  curled  parsley,  in  the  centre  and  around 
the  edges. — Mra,  S,  T. 

Celery. 

Wash  carefully  and  put  in  cold  water  to  keep  crisp  till  din- 
ner. Remove  all  the  green,  as  nothing  is  so  ornamental  as  the 
pure  white  leaves  of  bleached  celery.  If  the  ends  of  the  stalks 
have  been  broken,  split  and  curl  them. — Mra,  S.  T, 

To  Boil  Snaps. 

Early  in  the  morning,  string  round,  tender  snaps.  Throw 
into  water  and  set  in  a  cool  place,  till  an  hour  before  dinner, 
when  they  must  be  drained  and  thrown  into  a  pot  where  the 
bacon  is  boiling. — Mrs,  8,  T, 

To  BoTL  Snaps  Without  Bacon. 

Prep  Are  as  above  directed.  Boil  an  hour  in  hot  water,  adding 
a  little  salt,  just  before  they  are  done.  Drain  and  serve  with 
pepper,  fresh  butter  and  a  little  cream. — Mra,  8.  T, 

To  Stew  Cy.>ilinos  {or  8quaa\  as  it  ia  aometimea  called), 
p€ol  and  boil  till  tender.     Run  through  a  colander.     To  a  pint 


TO  FRY  OYMLINGB — TO  BOIL  ORESN  OOBN.  241 

of  pulp,  add  one  half  pint  rich  milk,  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
fresh  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Stew  till  thick  like  marmalade. 
Pepper  freely,  pour  over  it,  if  convenient,  half  teacup  cream, 
and  serve. — Mrs,  8.  T, 

To  Fry  Cymunos. 

Steam  or  boil  the  cymlings  (unpeeled),  till  tender.  When 
cool,  slice  and  butter  them,  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  and  pour 
over  them  a  spoonful  of  eggs,  lightly .  beaten.  Sift  over  it 
cracker,  pounded  fine,  and  fry  a  light  yellow  brown.  Take  from 
the  frying  pan,  prepare  the  other  side  the  same  way.  Return 
to  the  pan  and  fry  it  a  pale  brown. — Mrs.  8,  T. 

Cymlings  Fried  with  Bacon. 

Fry  some  slices  of  fat  bacon  in  a  pan.  Bemove  the  bacon 
when  done  and  keep  hot.  Fry  in  the  gravy  some  cymlings  that 
have  been  boiled  tender  and  cut  in  slices.  While  frying,  mash 
fine  with  a  lai-ge  spoon,  and  add  pepper  and  salt.  Fry  brown, 
and  serve  with  the  bacon,  if  you  like. — Mrs.  G.  B. 

Cymling  Fritters. 

After  boiling  and  running  through  a  colander,  mix  with  an 
egg,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  make  into  cakes  and 
fry  a  light  brown. 

Cymling  Pudding. 

Boil  young  cymlings,  mash  and  run  through  a  colander.  Add 
one  teacup  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  large  lump  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt. 

Put  in  a  buttered  deep  dish,  and  bake  a  light  brown.  For 
a  change,  you  might  line  the  dish  with  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bready  pour  in  the  cymling  batter  and  put  some  pieces  of  butter 
and  grated  cracker  on  top. — Mrs.  M.  C.  0. 

To  Boil  Green  Corn. 

Strip  off  the  outer  shucks,  leaving  only  the  thin  white  ones. 

Cut  off  the  ends.     Throw  into  boiling  water.     Boil  an  hour. 

21 


S42  CX>BN  PDDDIMG OOBN   FftnTKBS. 

Strip  off  the  silk  with  the  sliuck.  Cut  from  the  cob  while  hot. 
Sprinkle  over  salt,  add  a  tablespoonful  fresh  butter  and  serve 
hot.— ifr«.  S,  T. 

Corn  Puddimo. 

1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

1  dessertspoonful  white  sugar. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  cornstarch  or  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

6  ears  of  com. 
With  a  sharp  knife,  slit  each  i*ow  of  com  in  the  centre. 
Then  shave  in  thinnest  slices.  Add  the  corn  to  the  yolks  of  the 
eggH,  next  the  butter,  cornstarch,  sugar,  and  salt,  then  the  milk, 
gradually,  and  last  of  all  the  whites.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  As 
soon  as  a  light  brown  on  top,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper. 
Grate  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  over  it  and  serve. — Mtm,  JS,  T, 

Com  Pudding. 

One  dozen  large  ears  corn.  Cut  off  the  top  of  the  grain,  scrape 
with  a  knife,  so  as  to  get  the  heart  of  the  grain  without  the 
husk.  Season  with  a  teacup  of  cream,  a  large  tablesjioouful  but 
ter,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.     Bake  in  a  dish. — Mrs,  Dr.  E, 

Corn  Fritters. 

3  dozen  ears  corn. 

6  eggs,  beaten  well. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Salt  to  the  taste. 
Grate  the  com,  add  to  it  the  flour,  and  gradually  mix  with 
the  eggs.  Beat  all  hard  together.  Di*op  in  oval  shapes,  three 
inches  long,  into  a  pan,  in  which  fry  them  brown,  in  equal 
pai*ts  of  lard  and  butter.  A  batter  cake-turner  is  convenient 
for  turning  them. — Mrs.  Ih\  e/I 


OOBN  FBTTflfiBB — BASKD  TOMATOES.  348 

Cam  FriU&n. 

8  large  ears  of  com,  oat  three  times  (not  grated). 
2  eggs. 

1  teacup  sweet  milk  (or  more,  if  the  oorn  is  not  juicy). 

2  teaspoonfuls  flour. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Make  the  mixture  the  consiBtenoy  of  a  soft  batter,  and  fry  in 
lard  or  butter. — Mrs,  A,  W. 

Corn  Fritters  for  Breakfast. 

Make  a  batter  as  you  would  for  fritters,  put  in  pepper,  salt, 
lard,  or  butter,  add  to  a  quart  of  batter,  a  pint  of  com,  cut  from 
the  cob,  and  fry. — Mrs,  A,  P. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

1  quart  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes  (not  scalded). 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  dessertspoonful  salt. 

I  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

1  roll  of  bread. 
Spread  a  layer  of  tomatoes  on  the  bottom  of  an  earthen 
(never  a  tin)  baking  dish.  Put  over  it  half  the  sugar,  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  crumble  half  the  roll  over  it  in  small 
bits,  llien  spread  another  layer  of  tomato,  sugar,  etc.,  ending 
with  the  remaining  half  of  the  roll.  Grate  cracker  or  hard 
brown  biscuit  on  top,  and  serve. — Mrs,  S,  T, 

Baked  Tomatoes, 

Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  or  else  peel  thin  with  a  sharp 
knife,  without  scalding.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  season  with  a 
little  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  and  finely  minced  onion.  Grease  a 
baking  dish  and  line  it  with  thin  slices  of  light  bread  buttered. 
Pour  the  tomatoes  in  the  dish,  crumming  up  a  little  light  bread 


244  8TEWED   TOMATOES — ROPA    VIOA. 

on  tbem.      Spread  on  top  a  layer  of  heavily  buttered  light 
bread,  and  bake. — Mrs,  M.  (7.  (7. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  chop  tomatoes  till  you  have  a  quart.  Add  one  tea- 
cup brown  sugar,  one  teacup  butter,  one  teacup  bread  crumbs. 
Onf)  tablespoonful  salt ;  one  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

Stew  till  free  from  lumps  and  perfectly  done.  Pour  in  a 
deep  dish,  sift  powdered  crackers  over  it,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S,  T. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  chop  fine,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  onion,  and  a  little  sugar.  Put  in  some  pieces  of  but- 
tered light  bread,  cut  up  very  fine.  Add  a  lump  of  butter,  and 
stew  in  a  saucepan. — Mr8,  V.  JP.  M, 

Tomato  Omelette. 
Peel  and  chop  fine  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  a  little  onion  minced  fine,  a  half  teacup  grated  bread. 
Beat  five  eggs  to  a  foam,  stir  into  the  tomatoes  and  turn  the 
mixture  into  a  hot  pan,  greased  with  butter,  stir  rapidly  till  it 
begins  to  thicken.  Let  it  brown  a  few  minutes  on  the  bottom, 
then  fold  it  half  over  and  serve  hot.  This  dish  may  be  made  of 
canned  tomatoes,  when  fresh  cannot  be  obtained. — Mrs.  I.  G, 

Fried  Tomatoes. 

Slice  tomatoes  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Put  them  in  a  skillet 
in  which  a  spoonful  of  nice  lard  has  been  melted.  After  get- 
ting hot,  the  skins  of  the  tomatoes  may  be  removed:  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  take  the  tomatoes  out,  thieken  the  gi*a^  y 
with  a  teacup  cream  in  which  a  teaspoonful  fiour  has  been 
stirred.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  a  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over 
thenu     Serve  hot. — Afrs.  C.  i.  T. 

ROPA  ViOA. 

Select  fine  ripe  tomatoes.     Pour  boiling  water  over  them  so 


TOMArO  TOAST — LIMA  BBANB.  246 

as  to  removo  the  skins  readily.  Put  them  in  a  pan  of  melted 
butteri  with  some  pepper  and  salt.  Shred  cold  meat  or  fowl 
over  them.     Fry  sufficiently,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs,  A.  -D. 

ToHATO  Toast. 

Put  some  canned  tomatoes  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  little 
butter  and  salt.  Cook  lightly  and  pour  over  slices  of  toasted 
bread,  buttered  and  softened  with  cream. — Mrs,  Dr,  Q. 

To  DRESS  Raw  Tomatoes. 

Slice  a  plateful  large  fresh  tomatoes.  Pour  over  them  a 
dressing  made  of  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  olive  oil,  creamed 
smoothly  together ;  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste ;  one  teaspoon- 
ful  prepared  mustard,  a  little  vinegar.  If  you  like,  you  may 
add  sugar. — Mrs,  JR,  L,  O, 

To  dress  Raw  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  cut  in  thick  slices  six  large  lipe  tomatoes  which 
have  been  kept  on  ice.  Put  a  layer  into  a  salad  bowl,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdei'ed  sugar.  Put  in  another  layer, 
and  so  on,  till  all  the  tomatoes  are  disposed  of.  Pour  over  the 
top  a  teacup  of  weak  vinegar.  Cover  the  top  with  ice,  and  set 
in  the  refrigerator  ten  minutes  before  serving. — Mrs,  8.  T, 

Lima  Beaks. 

Shell  and  throw  into  cold  water.  Put  in  boiling  water  an 
hour  before  dinner ;  add  some  salt;  when  tender,  drain  off  the 
water  and  add  a  tablespoonful  fresh  butter.  Beans  are  seldom 
cooked  enough. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

lAma  JBeans. 

Shell  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Boil  thoroughly,  and  then  stew 
a  little  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  cream. — Mrs.  Jt, 


346  80OOOTA8H-HrO  BOIL  IBIBH    POTATOXS. 

SUOOOTASH. 

1  pint  shelled  lima  beans. 

1  quart  green  com,  cut  from  the  cob. 

1  quart  tomatoes,  prepared  and  seasoned  as  for 
Boil  the  com  and  beans  together  till  done,  then  drain  off  the 
water  and  pour  in  a  cup  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
salt  to  the  taste.  Let  it  boil  up,  and  then  pour  in  the  tomatoes. 
Let  all  simmer  an  hour.  Baked  or  stewed  dishes  should  have 
cracker  or  brown  biscuit  grated  on  top,  before  sending  to  the 
table.— Jfr«.  S,  T. 

To  Fry  Oucumbers. 

Peel,  cut  lengthwise  in  thick  slices  and  lay  in  water  till  just 
before  dinner.  Wipe  dry,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip 
in  beaten  egg,  sift  over  pounded  cracker  and  fiy  with  the  cover 
on  till  light  brown.     Prepare  exactly  as  egg-plant. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Dress  Cucumbers  Raw. 

Gkkther  early  in  the  morning,  peel,  lay  in  cold  water  till  just 
before  dinner.  Then  drain,  slice  as  thin  as  possible  into  ice 
water,  which  drain  and  then  fill  a  dish  with  alternate  layei*s  of 
sliced  cucumber  and  thinly  sliced  white  onion,  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Pour  a  cup  of  weak  vinegar  over  it  and  lay 
a  lump  of  ice  on  top. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

Okra. 

Boil  young  okra  till  tender,  in  salt  and  water.  Drain,  add 
half  a  teacup  of  cream,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  butter.  Let 
it  boil  up,  turn  it  out  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  o%'er 
it  and  serve  hot. 

To  Boil  Irish  Potatoes. 

Old  potatoes  must  be  nicely  peeled  and  dropped  in  boiling 
water,  covered  with  a  lid  and  boiled  hard  half  an  hour.  Then 
drain  off  the  water  and  set  by  the  fire.  This  makes  them 
mealy. — Mrs.  8.  T, 


ORRAinen  potatoes — ^potato  hash.  247 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  boil  vhite  mealy  potatoes^  till  perfectly  done.  Take 
out  one  at  a  time  from  the  saucepan,  which  must  be  left  on  the 
fire.  With  a  large  spoon,  maah  perfectly  fine ;  add  salt,  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  butter  and  a  teacup  rich  milk.  Stir 
rapidly  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  send  hot  to  the  table.  It  is 
much  lighter  when  well  creamed  and  beaten. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Potato  Snow. 

Peel  and  boil  in  a  saucepan,  six  large  mealy  whit^e  potatoes. 
Add  a  little  salt  to  the  water.  Take  them  out  one  by  one, 
leaving  the  saucepan  on  the  fire.  Rub  through  a  sieve  into  a 
deep  dish,  letting  it  fall  in  a  mound.  Do  not  touch  with  a 
spoon  or  the  hand.  Have  a  sauce-boat  of  melted  butter  to 
serve  with  it  at  table. — Mrs.  S,  T. 

Irish  Potato  Chips. 

Shave  the  raw  potatoes  with  a  cabbage  cutter.  Drop  the 
pieces,  one  at  a  time,  into  boiling  lard,  and  fry  a  rich  brown. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them. — Mrs.  JR.  JL.  O. 

To  Fry  Sliced   Potatoes. 

Peel  and  slice  thin.  Dry  well  in  a  cloth.  Fry  in  lard,  stir- 
ring till  crisp.  Take  up  and  lay  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over  them. — Mrs.  H, 

Potato  Cakes. 

Mash  potatoes,  just  boiled.     Add  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and 

cream,  make  into  cakes,  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides. — Mrs.  jP. 

W. 

Potato  Pudding. 

May  be  made  by  putting  potatoes  prepared  exactly  as  above 
directed,  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  baking. — Mrs.  8.  T. 

Potato  Hash. 
Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  slioes.    Put  in  a  pan  with  boiling 


248     TO  BOIL   8WBBT  FOTATOBS — TO   BT£W   EQO-PLANT8. 

water,  adding  pep|)er,  salt,  and  butter.     Stew  till  thick,  and 
serve. — Mr».  Dr.  G. 

To  Boil  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Boil  large,  smooth  potatoes  till  quite  done.  Pee?  and  slice 
lengthwise.  Pour  melted  butter  over  them.  Some  ))ei*sons  like 
a  dressing  of  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  cream.  Othera  i>refer 
butter,  sifted  sugar,  and  grated  nutmeg. 

To  Fry  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Parboil  and  cut  in  thick  slices,  sprinkling  over  them  i)eppery 
salt,  and  sugar.  Fry  with  a  slice  of  fisit  pork.  Take  from  the 
pan,  sift  over  them  pounded  cracker,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Cook  Inferior  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Boil  till  nearly  done.  Cut  in  thick  slices ;  put  a  layer  in  the 
bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  Put  pepper,  salt,  sugar,  bits  of  but- 
ter, and  a  teaspoonful  vinegar  on  this  layer,  and  so  on  till  the 
dish  is  filled,  leaving  a  layer  of  seasoning  fur  the  top.  Pour 
over  it  a  teacup  rich  milk.  Put  a  tin  plate  on  top  and  bake  a 
few  minutes.     Put  grated  cracker,  on  top. — Jifrs.  S.  T. 

To  Dress  Yams. 

Steam  them  till  done,  peel  and  slice  them.  Put  in  a  buttered 
baking-dish  a  layer  of  yam,  on  which  put  sugar  and  some  lumps 
of  butter.  Fill  up  the  dish  in  this  way,  and  when  full,  pour 
over  it  milk  or  oream,  and  bake  brown. — Mrs.  Dr,  P.  (7. 

To  Stew  Egg-plants. 

Put  them  on  whole  in  a  plenty  of  water,  and  let  them  simmer 
till  tender.  Then  take  off  the  skin  and  divide  them.  Mash 
them  well  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  a  large  spoonful  butter  and 
some  grated  bread  crumbs.  Grate  bread  crumbs  on  top,  and 
brown  it. 

Purplf  egg-plants  are  best. — Mrs.  M. 


TO  FBY  EOG-PLAMT — TO  FEY  PAB8NIP8.  249 

To  Fbt  Eoo-plakt. 

Cut  the  egg-plant  in  thick  slices,  carefully  paring  each  piece. 
Throw  it  in  salt  and  water,  and  let  it  remain  there  several 
hours.  Take  from  the  water,  drain  and  wipe.  Then  butter 
the  slices  of  egg-plant,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  grated  cracker, 
and  frj  a  light  brown.  Pepper,  grate  more  cracker  over  them, 
and  serve. — Mn,  S.  T. 

Egg-plant  Pudding. 

Quarter  the  egg-plant  and  lay  it  in  salt  and  water  the  over- 
night, to  extract  the  bitterness.  The  next  day,  parboil,  peel 
and  chop  fine,  and  add  bread  crumbs  (one  teacup  to  a  pint  of 
egg-plant),  eggs  (two  to  a  pint  of  egg-plant),  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter  to  taste ;  enough  milk  to  make  a  good  batter. 

Bake  in  an  earthen  dish  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  R,  L.  0. 

To  Bake  Egg-plant. 

Parboil  the  egg-plant.  Take  out  the  meat  and  mix  it  with 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  bread  crumbs.  Fill  the  hulls  with  this 
mixture  and  bake  a  dark  brown.  Cucumbers  may  be  prepared 
by  the  same  recipe. 

Burr  Artichokes. 

Strip  off  the  coarse  outer  leaves,  cut  the  stalk,  and  lay  several 
hours  in  cold  water.  Then  put  in  boiling  water,  with  their 
leaves  downward.  Keep  covei*ed  with  a  plate.  Boil  steadily 
two  or  three  hours.  Serve  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  mustard, 
and  vinegar. — Mrs.  R, 

To  Stsw  Parsnips. 

Peel  and  slice  parsnips.  Boil  them  in  a  covered  vessel  with 
dices  of  nice  pork,  tmtil  done,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
--Mrs.  Q.B. 

To  Fry  Parsnips. 

Peel  and  parboil  the  parsnips.  Slice  lengthwise,  and  fry  with 
fat  pork,  sprinkling  over  them  salt,  pepper,  and  sugai .     Grate 


250        TO  OOOK  PASSmPB — TO  FEY  BALBIBT. 

bread  crumbs  over  it  and  serve.     Salsify  may  be  cooked  the 
same  way. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

To  Cook  Parsnips. 

Boil  the  parsnips  till  thoroughly  done.  Serve  with  salt,  pep- 
per, butter,  and  cream ;  or  mash  the  parsnips,  mix  with  an  egg 
batter,  and  season  as  before. 

To  Cook  Salsify. 

Wash,  trim,  scrape  the  roots  and  cut  them  up  fine.  Boil  till 
tender,  mash  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  bread  crumbs,  but- 
ter, and  milk.     Put  in  a  dish  and  bake  brown. — Jlfn,  A,  JP. 

To  Stew  Salsify. 

Scrape  and  throw  at  once  in  water  to  prevent  from  turning 
dark.  Boil  till  tender  in  a  closely  covered  vessel.  Drain  off 
the  water  and  cut  the  salsify  in  pieces  half  an  inch  long. 
Throw  in  a  saucepan  with 

1  teacup  vinegar. 

1  teacup  water. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Just  before  serving,  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  up  and 
mixed  with  a  little  water.     The  seasoning  above  given  is  for 
one  quart  salsify. — Mrs.  3.  T, 

Another  Way  to  Stew  SoLsify, 
Prepare  the  salsify  exactly  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  Boil 
till  tender,  drain  and  cut  in  pieces,  half  an  inch  long,  and  then 
stew  in  milk.  Just  before  serving,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, rolled  in  a  teaspoonful  flour.  Let  it  boil  up  once.  Pepper 
and  salt  it,  grate  cracker  over  it  and  serve. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

To  Fry  Salsify. 

Prepare  as  for  stewing.  When  perfectly  tender,  run  through 
a  colander.     Add  grated  cracker,  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  one 


TO  BOIL  OABBA^K  WITH   BACX>K~WABM   SLAW.        251 

tablospoonfol  yine^iiar,  one  tablespoonfol  butter,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  a  little  pepper.  Make  into  oyal 
cakes,  roll  in  grated  cracker,  and  fry  a  light  brown. — Mrs,  8,  T, 

To  Boil  Cabbaob  with  Baook. 

Quarter  a  head  of  hard  white  cabbage,  examine  for  insects, 
lay  in  salt  and  water  several  hours.  An  hour  before  dinner, 
drain  and  put  in  a  pot  in  which  bacon  has  been  boiling — ^a  pod 
of  red  pepper  boiled  with  it  will  make  it  more  wholesome  and 
improve  the  flavor  of  both  bacon  and  cabbage. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Cabbage  Boiled  without  Bacon. 

Prepare  exactly  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe. 

Boil  an  hour  in  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water.  Drain,  chop 
fine,  add  a  tablespoonful  butter,  the  same  of  cream,  the  same  of 
pepper-vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste. — Mrs,  S,  T, 

Oabbaoe  Puddinq. 

Boil  nice,  hard,  white  cabbage  with  good  bacon. 

When  thoroughly  done,  chop  6ne  and  add  a  large  lump  ot 
butter,  one  teacup  rich  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  light,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  mixed  mustard  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

Pour  in  a  buttered  deep  dish;  put  on  top  dusted  pepper, 
bits  of  fresh  butter,  and  grated  cracker  or  stale  bread. 

Bake  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  M,  G,  O, 

Cabhage  JPudding, 

Boil  the  cabbage  till  tender,  chop  fine  and  add  four  eggs,  well 

beaten,  one  pound   bread   crumbs,  one  teacup  melted  butter, 

milk  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  mush,  salt  and  pepper  to  the 

taste.     Bake  in  a  dish  till  the  eggs  and  milk  are  cooked. — Mrs, 

McB. 

Warm  Slaw. 

Out  the  cabbage  very  fine  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  tablespoon- 
ful flour.     Put  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  e^,  in  the  oveo 


352  WABM  8LAW — 8FINA0H. 

to  melt.  Salt  and  pepper  the  cabbage  and  put  it  in  the  oven 
with  the  butter.  Mix  half  a  teacup  of  cream  with  the  same 
quantity  of  vinegar,  pour  it  over  the  cabbage  and  heat  thorough- 
ly.—ilfr*.  JS.  G. 

Warm  Slaw. 

Cut  the  cabbage  (hard  red  is  best)  as  for  cold  slaw.  Put  in 
a  saucepan  one-quarter  pound  butter,  two  gills  water,  three 
gills  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  If 
you  like,  add  a  garlic,  minced  fine.  When  this  mixture  has 
come  to  a  boil,  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  cabbage,  and  cover  it 
five  or  ten  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Warm   Slaw, 

Wash  the  cabbage,  cut  fine  and  put  on  the  fire  with  enough 
water  to  keep  it  from  burning. 

When  sufficiently  tender,  have  ready  a  dressLng  made  of  vine- 
gar, pepper,  salt,  mustard,  a  spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  beaten  eggs,  all  thoroughly  mixed.  Stir  this  quickly  in  the 
cabbage  and  let  it  boil  up. — Mrs.  Od,  W. 

Fried   Cabbage. 

Keserve  some  cabbage  firom  dinner.  Set  it  away  till  next 
morning.  Chop  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  brown 
with  a  slice  of  fat  bacon. 

Cauliflower. 

Bemove  the  outside  leaves.  Cut  in  four  parts,  tie  them  to- 
gether, put  in  boiling  water  and  let  them  simmer  till  the  stalk 
is  thoroughly  tender,  keeping  it  covered  with  water,  and  remov- 
ing the  scum.  Boil  two  hours,  drain  well  and  serve  with  melt* 
ed  butter.  Tou  may  cook  broccoli  by  the  same  recipe,  except 
that  you  cut  it  in  two  pieces  instead  of  four. — JHfrs,  JR, 

Spinach. 
Pick  and  soak  several  hours  in  cold  water.     Drain  and  shake 


TUBNIP  SALAD — ^BESIPBB  FOB  OUKIH  KON-FBBL  PEES.      253 

each  bunch.  Throw  in  boiling  water  and  boil  till  tender.  Take 
ap  with  a  perforated  skimmer.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  butter ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  in  three 
hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  up.  Let  it  simmer,  stirring  frequent, 
ly.  Put  in  a  deep  dish  and  cover  with  nicely  poached  eggs, 
buttered,  peppered,  and  salted.  Sea-kale  may  be  prepared  by 
the  same  redpe. — Mrs,  S,  T. 

Turnip  Salad. 

Pick  early  in  the  morning.     Wash  one  peck  and  put  in  cold 

water.     Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water  in  which  a  piece  of 

bacon  has  boiled  several  hours,  and  the  amount  of  water  become 

much  reduced.      Take  out  the  bacon,  put  in  the  salad,  put  the 

bacon  back  on  top  of  the  salad,  and  boil  till  very  tender.     Dip 

from  the  pot  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  lay  in  a  deep  dish, 

skim  the  fat  from  the  liquor  and  pour  over  the  salad.     Cover 

with  nicely   poached  eggs.     Cover  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Any  other  kind  of  salad  might  be  cooked  by  this  recipe. — 

Mrs.  8,  T. 

Turnips. 

Boil  and  mash  through  a  colander.  Season  Mrith  a  cup  cream, 
spoouful  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  stew  quite  dry.  Then 
you  may  bake  them. — Mrs.  Col.  W. 

To  Stew  Turnips. 

Peel  five  or  six  turnips  and  put  on  to  boil,  adding  a  little 
salt  to  the  water.  When  thoroughly  done,  mash  fine  through  a 
colander,  season  with  a  teacup  of  cream,  or  milk,  a  tablespoonful 
butter,  red  and  black  pepper,  and  a  little  more  salt,  if  needed. 
Stew  two  or  three  minutes.  Cabbage  prepared  the  same  way  is 
very  nice. — Mrs.  C.  M.  A. 

Resipbb  for  cukin  kon-feel  Pees. 

Gether  your  pees  'bout  sun-down.  The  folrin  day,  'boyt 
leven  o'clock,  gowge  out  your  pees  with  your  thum  nale,  likff 


354  OOBHFIKLD  OB  BLAOK  BTB  PXAS^-OOBN  PUT  IN  BBIHR. 

gowgin  out  a  man's  eye-ball  at  a  kote  liouBe.  Rense  your  pees, 
parbile  them,  then  fry  'em  with  aom  several  slices  uv  streekl 
middlin,  inoouragin  uv  the  gravy  to  seep  out  and  intermarry 
with  your  pees.  When  modritly  brown,  but  not  soorcht,  empty 
intoo  a  dish.  Mash  'em  gently  with  a  spune,  mix  with  raw 
tomarters  sprinkled  with  a  little  brown  shugar  and  the  immortal 
dish  ar  quite  ready.  Eat  a  hepe.  Eat  mo  and  mo.  It  is  good 
for  your  genral  helth  uv  mind  and  body.  It  fattens  you  up, 
makes  you  sassy,  goes  throo  and  throo  your  very  soul.  But 
why  don't  you  eat  ?  Eat  on.  By  Jings.  Eat.  Stop  /  Never, 
while  thar  is  a  pee  in  the  dish. — MozU  Addums. 

Cornfield  or  Black  Eye  Peas. 

Shell  early  in  the  morning,  throw  into  water  till  an  hour 
before  dinner,  when  put  into  boiling  water,  covering  close  while 
cooking.  Add  a  little  salt,  just  before  taking  from  the  iire. 
Drain  and  serve  with  a  large  spoonfid  fresh  butter,  or  put  in  a 
pan  with  a  slice  of  fat  meat,  and  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Dried 
peas  must  be  soaked  overnight,  and  cooked  twice  as  long  as 
fresh.— ^r*.  S.  T. 

To  Boil  Dried  Peas. 

Soak  in  boiling  water  the  night  before.  Then  next  day  par- 
boil and  drain.  Put  in  fresh  water  with  a  piece  of  middling  or 
ham,  and  boil  till  tender. — Mrs,  Col.  W. 

To  Boil  Dried  Lima,  or  other  Beaks. 

Soak  overnight.  Next  morning,  soak  in  fresh  water  till  two 
hours  before  dinner,  when  boil  steadily  in  a  covered  saucepan 
two  hours.  Drain  and  add  a  large  spoonful  fresh  butter,  and  a 
Uttle  salt.— Mrs.  S.  T. 

Corn  Put  up  in  Brine. 

Late  as  possible  in  the  fall  prepare  tender  roasting  oars  for 
winter  usi3.  Stiip  off  the  outer  shuck,  leaving  the  inner,  silky 
ones  next  to  the  grain.     Have  I'eady  a  nice  clean  wooden  firkin 


PIORLKS  AND  CAT8U1>8.  255 

or  tub,  properly  scalded  and  sunned.  Sprinkle  salfc  over  the 
bottom.  Pack  closely  with  corn.  Wash  a  large  flat  rock  and 
lay  on  tlie  top,  when  nearly  full.  Pour  strong  brine  over  the 
com,  covering  it  welL  The  day  before  using,  strip  off  the 
shuck  and  silk,  place  in  a  bucket  of  cold  water  ^renewing  the 
water  once,  or  twice),  and  let  it  stand  till  ready  to  use  it.  Tw« 
ears  soaked  thus,  and  shaved  into  a  pot  of  soup  with  other  veg 
etables,  will  impart  a  delicious  flavor. — Mrs,  8.  T, 


-•♦^ 


PICKLES  AND   CATSUPS. 

For  pickles  and  catsups,  use  the  best  cider  vinegar,  it  being 
not  only  more  wholesome  than  other  kinds  of  vinegar,  but 
the  only  sort  that  will  keep  pickles  or  catsup  for  any  length  of 
time. 

In  making  catsup,  or  in  scalding  pickles  in  vinegar,  if  a  brass 
kettle  is  used,  it  must  be  scoured  with  sand  and  ashes,  washed 
and  wiped  dry,  and  then  scoured  with  vinegar  and  salt.  By 
'Attending to  these  directions, the  brass  kettle  maybe  safely  used 
—though  the  pickles  or  catsup  must  be  poured  from  it  the 
instant  it  is  taken  from  the  fli*e,  or  they  will  canker. 

In  making  pickles,  it  is  a  good  rule  to  allow  two  pounds  of 
sugar  to  each  gallon  of  vinegar  for  sour  piokle,  though  a  larger 
proportion  must  be  allowed  for  sweet  pickle. 

Vinegar  for  pickling  should  be  spiced  and  set  to  sun  from 
spring  to  autumn.  Never  put  pickle  in  a  jar  that  has  been 
used  for  butter  or  lard.  Examine  often  to  see  if  the  pickle  is 
well  covered  with  vinegar,  and  if  any  of  it  has  turned  soft, 
remove  it.  Keep  it  in  a  dry,  airy  closet,  and  be  careful  not  to 
let  it  freeze.  Pickle  is  generally  considered  best  when  from  six 
months  to  a  yenr  old.  Some  housekeepers  use  the  same  vine- 
gar (with  a  slight  addition)  from  year  to  year,  by  draining  the 
pickle  as  they  take  it  out  of  the  jar. 


356  PICKI^   YINROAS — VIKBOAR  FOB  PIOKLSS. 

Pickle  Yinbqar. 

2  gallons  cider  vinegar. 

4  ounces  white  pepper,  beaten. 

4  ounces  whole  allspice. 

4  ounces  mustard-seed. 

2  ounces  ground  mustard. 
2  ounces  of  mace. 
2  ounces  of  turmeric. 
2  ounces  of  white  ginger. 
2  ounces  of  garlic. 
2  ounces  of  horseradish. 
2  gills  of  celery-seed. 
2  sliced  lemons. 

5  pounds  of  sugar. 

This  ought  to  be  prepared  several  months  before  using,  and 
always  kept  on  hand  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

PichLe   Vinegar, 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

1  pint  black  mustard-seed. 
4  ounces  ginger. 

3  ounces  allspice. 
1  ounce  cloves. 

4  ounces  whole  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  celerv-seed. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 

2  handfuls  scraped  horseradish. 
1  liandful  garlic. 

3  sliced  lemons. 

Make  in  May,  and  sun  all  summer. — Mrs,  D,  It, 

YiNEOAR   FOR   PiCKLBS. 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

1  cup  bruised  ginger. 

1  oup  black  mustard-seed. 


TBLLOW  FICKLE  VDnBGAB.  257 

1  cup  garlic. 

^  cup  black  pepper. 

1  cup  celery-seed. 
^  cup  of  mace. 

^  cup  of  cloves. 
i  Clip  of  turmeric. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
1  pod  red  pepper. 

1  handful  horseradish.  — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Ououmbers  (sliced),  snaps,  gherkins,  muskmelons,  cabbage, 
onions,  or  anything  to  be  put  into  the  spiced  vinegar,  must  be 
previously  boiled  tender  in  strong  vinegar  and  salt — well 
pressed  out— fuid  then  put  into  the  pickle  vinegar,  will  soon  be 
ready  for  use. — Mrs,  Jl  e/l  C. 

Yellow  Fioklb  Yineoar. 

2  gallons  of  pure  cider  vinegar. 
1  pint  black  mustard-seed. 

1  pint  white  mustard-seed. 

2  ounces  ground  mustard. 
4  ounces  white  ginger. 

8  ounces  pepper. 

3  ounces  allspice. 
1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 

1  hiTgd  handful  honseradish* 

1  handful  garlic. 

1  spoonful  salt. 

1  gUl  celery-seed. 

6  lemons. 

6  pounds  sugar. 

The  liquid  should  be  mixed  in  the  spiing,  and  set  in  tbe  sun 

— Jfr*.  T.  M.  a 

22 


268      nrQBXDiKim  to  onb  gallon  gbebn  piokle. 
Inobxdiemts  to  Onb  Gallon  Gbebn  Pickle. 

3  pounds  of  sugar. 

4  ounce  ot  mace,  full  weight,  and  beaten. 

i  ounce  of  black  pepper,  full  weight,  and  beaten. 

1  ounce  ginger,  light  weight,  and  beaten. 

i  ounce  allspice,  light  weight. 

\  ounce  cloves,  light  weight. 

\  tablespoonful  salt,  light  weight. 

^  ounce  celery-seed,  light  weight. 

2^  ounces  cinnamon,  beaten. — Mr8.  Dr.  JP,  (7. 

Pbeparing  Pickles. 

Vegetables  for  pickle  should  be  kept  in  cold  and  strong  brine 
till  they  turn  yellow :  then  put  vine-leaves  in  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle,  then  a  layer  of  vegetables  and  a  layer  of  leaves  till  fulL 
Pour  on  them,  boiling  salt  and  water  and  let  them  boil  until 
a  bright  green.  Take  them,  while  hot,  and  place  in  weak  vine- 
gar for  a  whole  week.  Then  add  them  to  the  spiced  vinegar. 
Afterwards  rub  on  them  a  little  turmeric.  Prepare  the  spiced 
vinegar  in  May,  and  expose  to  the  sun  every  day  for  some  time. 
—Mrs.  K 

Yellow  Pickle. 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

2  pounds  sugar. 
1  ounce  turmeri 

3  ounces  allspice 
1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  pint  mustard-seed. 

2  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed. 

Pound  all  together  and  stir  into  the  hot  cider  vinegar  for 
several  minutes.  Prepare  your  vegetables  by  quartering  the 
cabbage  and  scalding  them  in  brine ;  cover  them  and  leave  until 


YELLOW  PIOELB.  859 

cold  ;  squeeze  dry  and  hang  in  the  sim ;  when  bleached,  throw 
in  plain  vinegar,  then  into  the  spiced  vinegar. — Mrs,  P. 

Yettow  Pickle, 

2^  gallons  vinegar. 

7  pounds  sugar. 

1  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

1  bottle  mustard. 

1  pound  white  ginger. 
^  pound  white  pepper. 
^  pound  turmeric. 

2  ounces  nutmeg. 
2  ounces  allspice. 
2  ounces  cloves. 

2  ounces  celery-seed. 

Pound  them  all  before  putting  in  the  vinegar,  add  one  pound 
scraped  horseradish,  half-dozen  lemons  sliced.  « 

Scald  two  dozen  onions,  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  let  them 
stand  a  day ;  di*ain  off  the  water  and  wash  well  with  the  vine- 
gar. Add  them  to  your  spiced  vinegar.  Cut  your  cabbage 
and  scald  them  in  strong  salt  water  till  you  can  run  a  straw 
through  them ;  drain  them  for  a  day  and  put  into  plain  vine- 
gar for  two  weeks ;  let  them  drain  again  a  day  or  two  before 
putting  into  the  prepared  vinegar.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls 
turmeric  in  the  plain  vinegar  to  turn  the  cabbage  yellow. — Mrs, 

t/«      JLm  JSLm 

YeUow  Pickle. 

One  peck  cabbage  cut  up.  Lay  in  a  jar,  sprinkling  with 
salt ;  leave  it  twenty-four  hours ;  squeeze  out  and  put  in  a 
kettle  with  ualf  a  dozen  onions  chopped,  cover  with  vinegar, 
add  one  ounce  turmeric,  and  boil  one  hour.     Then  add : 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

^  ounce  mace. 

^  ounce  allspice. 

\  ounce  doves. 


900  TBLLOW  FIOKLB — ^YBLLOW  FIOKLKD  OABBAQB. 

4  tableepoonfuls  mixed  mustard. 

1  teacup  black  peppercorn. 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  ginger, 

2  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed. 
BoU  tiU  dear.— Jfr«.  S.  B. 

Telhw  Fickle. 

2  gallons  cider  vinegar. 

4  ounces  beaten  white  pepper. 

4  ounces  whole  aUspice. 

4  ounces  white  mu8tard-«eed. 

4  ounces  black  mustard-seed. 

2  ounces  mace. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 

2  ounces  white  ginger. 

2  ounces  gi-ound  mustard. 

3  ounces  garlic. 

3  ounces  horseradish. 
2  gills  celery-seed. 

4  sliced  lemons. 

6  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Should  be  prepared  months  before  using.  Cabbage  to  be 
pickled  should  be  boiled  or  scalded  in  salt  and  water  until  the 
leaves  can  be  turned  back  so  as  to  sprinkle  salt  between  them ; 
then  must  be  dried  in  the  sun.  Shake  all  the  salt  out  when 
dry,  and  soak  in  plain  vinegar,  with  a  little  turmeric  sprinkled 
on  each  layer  of  cabbage.  After  ten  days,  drain  them  and  put 
in  the  spiced  vinegar. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Ykllow  Picklrd  Cabragb. 

1  ounce  turmeric. 
1  gill  black  pepper. 
1  gill  celery-seed. 
A.  few  cloves, 
A  few  pieces  of  ging«r. 


■■ 


▲  QmOK  WAT  TO  MAKB  YELLOW  PXOKLB.  261 

4  tablespoonfuls  made  mustard. 
^  oanoe  maoe. 
2  pounds  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 

Take  one  peck  of  quartered  cabbage  ;  slice  them  and  put  a 
layer  of  cabbage  and  one  of  salt ;  let  it  remain  over  night.  In 
the  morning  squeeze  them  and  put  on  the  fire  with  four  chopped 
onions,  and  cover  with  vinegar ;  boil  for  an  hour,  then  add  the 
spices  mentioned  above,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  longer ;  when 
cold  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mr%,  W.  H,  M. 

A  QUICK  WAT  TO   ICAKB  TSLLOW   PiCKLE. 

Two  gallons  chopped  cabbage,  sprinkle  one  handful  salt 
through  it,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Squeeze  it  out  dry  and 
put  into  a  kettle.  Add  one  ounce  of  celery-seed,  one  ounce 
of  turmeric,  one  quarter-pound  of  mustard-seed,  (black  and 
white  mixed),  five  pounds  brown  sugar,  with  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  the  whole  well. 

Boil  untU  the  cabbage  is  tender.  Put  it  in  stone  jars  and 
keep  it  closely  covered.  It  is  fit  for  use  the  day  after  it  is 
made. — Mt9,  J,  C.  W, 

Yellow  Pickle. 

2  ounces  black  mustard-seed. 
2  ounces  white  mustard-seed. 
2  ounces  celery-seed. 

1  ounce  coriander. 
1  ounce  white  pepper. 

1  ounce  green  ginger. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 

1  pound  brown  sugar. 

Pat  these  in  one  and  one-half  gallons  best  cider  vinegar,  and 

set  in  the  sun.     This  can  be  prepared  during  the  winter,  if  you 

choose.     Quarter  your  cabbages  (small  heads  about  the  size  of 

a  large  apple  are  best),  and  put  in  a  tab.     Make  a  strong  brine^ 


262  OABBAOE  PIOELB  FOR  PRE8KNT  U8B. 

boil  and  pour  over  while  hot.  Let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours 
and  then  repeat  On  the  third  day  spread  them  on  a  board 
or  table,  salt  them  slightly,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  hot  sun  four 
days,  taking  care  that  no  dew  shall  fall  on  them.  Put  iu  a  jar, 
and  pour  on  your  prepared  vinegar  boiling  hot.  This  pickle 
will  not  be  ready  for  the  table  till  it  has  softened  and  absorbed 
the  vinegar.  You  can  judge  of  this  by  your  taste.  To  make 
quick  pickle  by  this  recipe,  you  simply  salt  your  cabbage  for 
one  night,  pouring  off  in  the  morning  the  water  drawn  out  by 
the  salt.  Then  put  in  the  kettle  with  the  spices  and  vinegar, 
and  boil  until  a  straw  will  go  through. — Mrs.  «/I  B.  D. 

Cabbage  Pioklb  for  Present  Use. 

Boil  the  cabbage  in  salt  and  water  till  tender ;  lay  them  on 
dishes,  drain  or  press  them  in  a  towel. 

Boil  together  two  gallons  strong  vinegar. 

1  pint  white  mustard-seed. 

4  ounces  ginger. 

3  ounces  black  pepper. 

3  ounces  allspice. 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  oimce  turmeric. 

1  large  handful  horseradish. 

1  large  handful  garlic. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

Pour  it  over  the  cabbage  boiling  hot     If  you  have  no  garlic, 
use  one  pint  onions  chopped  fine. — Mt$,  H. 

Cut  Cabbage  Pickle. 

Fill  the  jar  with  cut  cabbage.     To  every  gallon  of  cabbage  put 
one  handful  horseradish. 

3  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 
\  tablespoonful  red  pepper. 


aUOPPED  OABBAGE  PIOKLE.  96H 

3  tablespoonfuls  coriander-seed. 

3  tablespoonfulfl  celeiynseed. 
2  tablespoonfuls  maoe. 

2  tablespoonfuls  allspioe. 

1  dozen  cloves. 

^  teacup  made  mustard. 

4  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard-seed. 
1  pound  sugar. 

4  or  5  sliced  onions. 
Salt  your  cabbage  first  as  for  slaw,  and  let  it  stand  two  or 
three  hours.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cover  with  weak 
vinegar ;  put  turmeric  enough  to  color,  boil  it  till  tender,  then 
drain  off  the  weak  vinegar,  and  cover  it  with  strong  cider  vine- 
gar, and  mix  the  spices  well  through  it ;  add  three  or  more 
tablespoonfvds  turmeric,  and  boil  the  whole  fifteen  minutes  very 
hard.     When  cold,  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs,  S,  M. 

Choppbd  Cabbage  Piokls. 

Cut  the  cabbage  as  for  slaw,  pour  over  it  enough  boiling 
brine  to  cover  it.  Chop  and  scald  a  few  onions  in  the  same 
way,  cover  both,  and  leave  twenty-four  hours ;  then  squeeze  in 
a  cloth  until  free  from  brine.  If  it  should  taste  very  salt,  soak 
in  clear  water  for  a  few  hours  and  squeeze  again.  Loosen  and 
mix  the  cabbage  and  onions  thoroughly.  To  one-half  gallon 
cabbage  put : 

1  small  cut  onion. 

1  pound  brown  sugar. 

1  small  box  mustard. 

^  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

1  small  cup  grated  horseradish. 

^  ounce  mace. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  black  pepper. 

2  ounces  celery-seed. 
1  ounce  turmeric. 

Ghop|)ed  celery  and  nasturtiums,  if  they  can  be  had.     Mix 


^o4  GREEN  FICKLE. 

all,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.     If  necessary,  add  more  vine- 
gar after  it  has  stood  awhile. — Mrs,  C»  N. 

Gbeek  Pickle. 

Put  the  pickles  in  a  strong  brine,  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
egg.  Three  weeks  is  long  enough  for  them  to  remain  in  brine, 
if  you  wish  to  make  your  pickle  early  in  the  fedl ;  but  they  will 
keep  sevei<al  months,  indeed  all  the  winter,  by  having  them 
always  well  covered  with  the  biine. 

When  ready  to  make  your  pickle,  drain  off  every  drop  of 
brine,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  the  pickles.  Repeat  tiiis  for 
three  mornings  in  succession.  Then  pour  off  this  last  water, 
and  soak  the  pickles  two  days  in  cold  water,  changing  the 
water  each  morning.  Next,  pouring  off  this  water,  scald  the 
pickles  three  mornings  in  weak  vinegar,  weakening  the  vinegar 
by  putting  two  quarts  of  water  to  one  of  vinegar.  This  is  the 
time  for  greening  the  pickles,  by  putting  in  the  jar  or  keg  a 
layer  of  pickle,  then  sprinkling  in  a  little  powdered  alum,  and 
BO  on,  till  the  vessel  is  filled  ;  then  pouring  on  the  weakened 
vinegar.  Only  use  the  alum  the  first  morning ;  but  the  other 
mornings  pour  off  the  vinegar  and  pour  on  a  fresh  quantity. 
All  this  is  necessary,  if  you  wish  to  have  pickle  perfectly  free 
from  the  brine,  and  in  a  condition  to  keep.  Fill  your  jars  with 
the  pickle  thus  prepared,  and  pour  over  them  the  best  of  vin- 
egar, after  seasoning  it  and  letting  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Sea- 
soning to  one  gallon  vinegar  : 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 

1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 

1  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  all  pounded. 

20  drops  oil  of  cloves,  or  3  ounces  of  cloves. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

1  pod  red  pepper. 

3  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish. — Mre.  O* 


GREEN  FIOKLES.  265 

Oreen  PUMes. 

Put  the  pickle  in  strong  biine  for  two  days ;  then  boil  the 
brine  and  pour  it  over  them  hot.  Kepeat  this  twice.  Tlien 
[)our  over  them  boiling  vinegar  and  water  mixed,  three  succes- 
sive times,  at  intervals  of  two  days.  For  a  three-gallon  jar 
take: 

1  teacup  black  pepper. 

1  teacup  allspice. 
^  teacup  of  ginger. 
^  teacup  of  mace. 

\  teacup  of  cloves,  ail  beaten,  but  not  fine. 

2  heads  of  cabbage  chopped  fine. 
2  teacups  hoi-seradish. 

8  onions  chopped  fine. 
1  quart  mustard  seed. 
Take  half  of  the  beaten  spices  and  mix  with  the  latter  ingi'e- 
dients,  also  three  cups  of  brown  sugar  ;  stuff  the  mangoes  with 
this.     Add  the  rest  to  the  vinegar  with  five  pounds  of  sugar, 
and  pour  on  the  pickle  hot. 

This  makes  veiy  superior  pickle. — M%S8  S.  S.  V. 

Green  JPicMe  [3  ffoUona], 

2  ounces  mace. 

^  pound  ginger,  scalded  and  sliced. 

2  ounces  cloves. 

2  ounces  cinnamon. 

2  ounces  long  pepper. 

2  ounces  black  pepper. 

2  ounces  allspice. 

1  ounce  nutmeg. 

i  pound  horseradish  scraped,  sliced,  but  not  dried. 

1  ounce  turmeric. 

4  ounces  black  mustard-seed. 

1  ounce  corianderHseed. 

•23 


266  CDCUMBBRS  OB  OTHEB  SMALL  PIOKLB8. 

2  ounces  garlic,  or  onion. 
2  pounds  bi-own  sugar. 

Prepare  the  cucumbers  as  follows  :  gather  cucumbers,  snaps, 
etc.,  and  put  them  in  a  large  stone  jar,  |)ouring  over  them  a 
strong  brine  which  has  been  boiled  and  skimmed — ^hot,  but  not 
boiling ;  cover  with  an  old  table-cloth  to  keep  the  steam  in. 
Let  them  stand  about  a  week,  then  take  and  soak  twenty-four 
hours  in  cold  water.  Next  put  them  in  a  large  kettle  lined 
with  grape  leaves,  and  fill,  covering  with  weak  vinegar.  Sprin- 
kle in  a  dessertspoonful  of  powdered  alum,  and  cover  with  grape 
leaves,  setting  on  the  stove  until  a  beautiful  blight  green.  Put 
in  a  jar  and  pour  this  vinegar  over  them  and  let  them  stand 
until  next  day ;  then  dry  the  pickles  with  a  cloth,  and  have 
ready  the  jar,  putting  in  a  layer  of  the  pickles  with  a  layer  of 
the  seasoning  before  mentioned  ;  fill  with  strong  cider  vinegar. 
Tie  up  closely,  and  keep  in  a  warm,  dry  place. 

The  spices  must  be  bruised  or  beaten  tolerately  fine  before 
putting  with  pickles ;  and  a  little  salad  oil  added  is  an  improve- 
ment.— MrB,  P.  McQ, 

Cucumbers  or  other  small  Pickles. 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

2  tablespoonfuls  celery -se<;(l. 

1  tablespoon ful  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  turmeric. 

1  tablespoouful  horseradish. 

1  tablespoouful  garlic. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  teas[>oonful  of  mace. 

1  teaspoonful  of  allspice ;  all  the  spices  must  be  pulverized. 

Add  the  garlic  and  horseradish  when  cold.  Add  two  pounds 
sugar,  which  must  be  boiled  in  the  vinegar  and  poured  over  the 
spices.     One  teivspoonfiil  red  pepper  will  improve  it.     Boil  the 


PIGKLED  0DCCMBEB8— OnOUMBEB  PICKLE.  267 

vegetables  in  plain  vinegar  before  putting  in  the  spiced  vine- 
gar. 

Gherkins  and  snaps  are  made  in  the  same  way  as  cucumlKsrs- 

— Jtfr«.  S. 

Pickled  Cucumbebs. 

^  gallon  vinegar. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
2  tablespoonfuls  cloves. 
2  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 
2  tablespoonfuls  mustard. 
2  tablespoonfuls  celery. 

1  tablespoonful  white  ginger. 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

2  pods  green  pepper. 

4  lemons  sliced. 

A  little  horseradish. 

12  onions,  and  as  many  cucumbera  as  the  vinegar  will  weL 
cover. 

Boil  all  together  uutil  the  cucumbers  are  tender,  and  they 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  week  or  so.  To  green  the  fruit :  line 
your  brass  kettle  with  grape-leaves,  and  then  pour  weak  vine- 
gar on  the  cuo.umbei's,  cover  with  leaves,  and  boil  a  little  while. 

—Mrs.  JS.  I. 

Cucumber  Pickle. 

2  gallons  good  vinegar. 
1  cup  bruised  ginger. 
1  cup  mustard-seed. 

1  cup  garlic. 

2  onions  chopped  fine. 
^  teacup  black  pepper. 
1  teacup  celery -seed. 

^  ounce  mace. 
^  ounce  cloves. 
^  ounce  turmeric. 


268      BOILED  CUOUMBKB   FICKLR — ^PICKLED  CUOUMBEBS. 

1  pod  red  pepper. 

1  handful  horseradish. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
After  greening  the  cucumbers,  put  them  in  plain  vinegar  for 
a  few  days.     Then  boil  the  spices  in  one  gallon  of  the  vinegar, 
and  pour  it  over  the  pickle  boiling  hot.     Do  this  twice ;  it  will 
be  ready  for  usp  in  a  week. — Mrs,  P.  W> 

Boiled  Cucumber  Pickle. 

Take  fresh  cucumbers  (size  for  eating),  put  them  in  brine  for 
a  few  days;  take  them  out,  and  put  them  in  vinegar  to  soak  for 
two  days.  Then  wipe  them  dry,  cut  them  in  pieces  one  inch 
thick.  Make  a  seasoning  of  a  mixture  of  allspice,  cloves,  mace, 
nutmeg,  and  whole  black  pepper,  about  two  ounces  to  seventy- 
tive  cucumbers.     Add  celery-seed,  and  onion  chopped  fine. 

Take  a  large  stone  jar,  put  a  layer  of  cucumber  and  a  layer 
of  the  mixture,  with  plenty  of  brown  sugar  (about  eight  pounds 
to  a  large  jar).  In  this  way  fill  the  jar,  then  cover  it  witi 
strong  vinegar :  tie  the  mouth  up  securely,  put  the  jar  in  a  pot 
of  cold  water,  and  boil  until  the  cucumber  is  tender,  and  they 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days. — Mrs.  O,  C,  JUfcjP, 

Pickled  Cucumbers. 

Put  them  in  a  wooden  or  stone  vessel,  pour  over  strong  salt 
and  wpter  boiling  hot,  put  a  weight  on  to  keep  them  under  the 
pickle.  After  three  days,  pour  it  off,  boil,  and  turn  it  over 
again  :  let  stand  three  days  again ;  then  take  them  out  and  let 
them  l.e  one  night  in  plain  cold  water;  next  day  put  them  over 
the  fire,  but  do  not  let  them  boil,  allowing  one  tablespoonful 
alum  to  one  gallon  vinegar;  mace,  cinnamon,  peppercorns, 
white  and  black  mustard-seed  and  grated  horseradish,  one 
tablespoonful  each  to  every  gallon  vinegar,  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful  turmeric,  and  two  and  one-half  pounds  sugar.  Fold  a 
doubU  piece  of  linen,  and  a  soft,  thick  brown  paper,  and  tie  the 


8WEKT  CmOTTMBEB  PIOKLIS — OBEEN  TOMATO  PIOKLE.    269 

jars  tight ;  throw  in  the  vinegar  and  keep  in  a  diy  place.     A 
bladder  and  linen  cloth  are  nice  to  be  over  the  pots. — Mrs.  Q.  P, 

Sweet  Cucumbbr  Pickle. 

Slice  cncnmbers  and  soak  in  brine  a  week ;  then  soak  in  salt 
water  until  the  salt  is  extracted  sufficiently.  Boil  in  strong 
alnm  water  half  an  hour^  then  in  ginger  tea  half  an  hour. 
Make  a  syrup  of  one  quart  good  vinegar,  one  pint  water,  three 
pounds  sugar,  to  four  pounds  cucumbers;  season  with  mace, 
cinnamon,  cloves,  and  celery-seed.  Put  in  the  cucumbers  and 
boil  till  the  syrup  is  thick  enough.  Add  some  sliced  ginger. — 
Mrs.  S.  M. 

Cucumber  Sweet  Pickle. 

First  lay  the  cucumbera  in  salt  and  water  for  one  week  or 
ten  days ;  next  cut  them  in  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Then 
soak  out  the  salt  and  boil  them  in  alum  water  half  an  hoiir,  and 
afterwards  in  ginger  tea  for  one  hour.  Then  make  a  syrup  of 
one  pint  water,  one  quart  vinegar,  three  pounds  sugar  to  every 
four  pounds  cucumbers.  Flavor  with  cloves,  mace,  and  cinna- 
mon.    Boil  all  together  until  the  syrup  is  sufficiently  thickened. 

— Mrs.  A,  C. 

To  Pickle  Ripe  Cucumbers. 

Take  them  yellow,  but  not  too  ripe,  scrape  the  seeds  well 

out ;  lay  them  in  sal^  and  water  twenty-four  hours,  then  make 

syrup  same  as  for  peaches ;  in  a  week  scald  the  vinegar  again. 

—Mrs.  C. 

Greek  Tomato  Pickle. 

Slice  green  tomatoes  and  onions ;  sprinkle  each  layer  with 
salt ;  let  them  stand  until  next  day,  then  press  all  the  juice  out, 
and  season  very  highly  with  red  and  black  pepper,  celery, 
mustard  seed,  a  little  turmeric,  and  some  sugar ;  cover  with 
vinegar,  and  cook  tintil  tender. — Mrs,  M.  D, 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. 
Slice  and  chop  green  tomatoes,  until  you  have  one  gallon 


970        OBBEN  TOMATO  FIOKLE — OBBBN  TOIIATO  8AU0B. 

Chop  one  dozen  large  onions.  Mix  and  sprinkle  four  large 
spoonfuls  of  salt  upon  them,  let  it  stand  one  night ;  next  day 
drain  off  all  the  water,  and  have  one  quart  strong  vinegar,  two 
pounds  sugar,  spioes  and  pepper  to  your  taste.  Put  in  the 
vinegar,  and  put  with  the  tomatoes  in  a  porcelain  k<^e ;  boil 
half  an  hour.  Place  in  the  jar  for  keeping  and  cover  closely. 
Three  or  four  days  afterwards,  boil  again  for  a  few  minutes  and 
put  away  for  use. — Mtb.  L,  P. 

Ghremk  TtmuUo  PiMe, 

One  peck  tomatoes  sliced. 
One  dozen  onions. 

Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  lay  by  twenty -four  hours ;  then  drain 
them. 

3  pounds  sugar  to  one  gallon  vinegar. 

1^  ounces  ground  pepper. 

I  ounce  whole  cloves. 

1  ounce  mustard-seed. 

1  ounce  allspice. 

1  cup  mustard,  mixed. 
Put  all  in  a  kettle,  with  vinegar  enough  to  cover ;  boil  till 
tender. — Mn.  8.  B. 

To  MAKE  Gbebn  Toxato  Saucb. 

16  pounds  tomatoes. 
7  pints  good  cider  vinegar. 
4  pounds  brown  sugar. 
^  pint  celery -seed. 
\  pint  mustard-seed. 
1^  pints  onions,  cut  fine. 

1  teacup  ground  mustard. 
\  ounce  mace. 

2  ounces  cinnamon. 
1  ounce  allspice. 


OBBEN  TOMATO   SAUCE.  271 

^  ounce  cloves. 

^  pound  black  pepper. 

Put  aU  of  the  spices  in  the  vinegar,  and  boil  one  hour.    Then 

put  in  the  tomatoes,  which  you  must  slice  the  night  before,  and 

put  one  layer  of  salt  and  one  of  tomatoes.     Drain  the  water  off, 

and  boil  the  tomatoes  in  the  spiced  vinegar  till  done. — Mr8.Dr,  S, 

Green  Tomato  Sauce. 
Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes.     To  two  gallons  add  : 
5  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 
2^  tablespoonfuls  ground  black  pepper. 
2  tablespoonfuls  ground  allspice. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  cloves. 

3  gills  white  mustard-seed. 
1  gill  celery-eeed. 

1  gill  salt. 

1  pint  onions,  chopped  fine. 

2  quarts  brown  sugar. 
2  quarts  vin^iar. 

Beat  all  the  spices,  except  the  mustard-8eed,and  boil  togethei 
until  thick  as  marmalade. — Mrs.  8,  T, 

Green  Tomato  Sauce. 

2  gallons  tomatoes,  sliced. 

3  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

3  gills  of  mustard-seed,  whole. 
2^  tablespoonfuls  pepper. 
1^  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 
3  tablespoonfuls  mustard,  beaten  smooth. 
1  teaspoonful  doves. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 
1  pint  onions,  chopped  fine. 
1  quart  sugar. 
2^  quarts  vinegar. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  boil  till  done. — Mrs,  P.  MeQ-. 


272        SWEET  TOMATO   MOKLB — ^BIPB  TOMATO   PICELB. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle. 

Peel  small  tomatoes  with  a  sharp  knife;  scald  in  strong 
ginger  tea  until  clear.  To  four  pounds  tomatoes,  two  pounds 
sugar,  not  quite  one  quart  vinegar ;  cinnamon,  mace,  nutmeg, 
to  taste. 

Scald  the  tomatoes  and  poiu:  on  boiling  hot — 3£r8,  J,  S.  F, 

Sweet  Tomato  Pidde, 

Boil  green  tomatoes  in  strong  ginger  tea  for  ten  minutes. 
Then  take  out,  and  to  every  two  pounds  add  one  quart  of  vine- 
gar, one  pound  sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  maoe  to  your  taste. 
—Mrs.  JP. 

Sweet  Tomctto  IHdde, 

Slice  one  gallon  green  tomatoes,  and  put  a  handful  salt  to 
each  layer  of  tomatoes.  Let  them  stand  twelve  hours,  then 
drain  off  the  liquor,  and  add  to  them  two  green  peppers,  and 
from  two  to  four  onions,  sliced ;  take  two  quarts  vinegar,  half  a 
pint  molasses,  two  tablespoonfuls  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  all- 
spice, and  one  of  cloves ;  heat  it  imtil  it  begins  to  boil,  then 
put  in  tomatoes,  onions,  and  peppers ;  let  them  boil  ten  minutes : 
pour  into  a  stone  jar,  and  seal  tight.  In  a  fortnight  they  will 
be  ready  for  use. — Mrs,  Dr.  P.  G. 

To  MAKE  Piccalilli. 

To  one-half  bushel  nicely  chopped  tomatoes,  which  must  be 
squeezed  dry,  add  two  dozen  onions,  chopped  fine,  one  dozen 
green  peppers,  chopped,  one  box  ground  mustard,  one  large  root 
horseradish,  nearly  one  pint  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  ground 
cloves,  four  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 

Mix  thoroughly  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover  with  vinegar,  making 
a  hole  in  the  centre  to  let  the  vinegar  to  the  bottom. — Mrs.  JB» 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickle. 

Puncture  the  tomato  with  a  thorn  or  straw.  Put  a  layer  of 
tomatoes,  with  onions  cut  up.     Sprinkle  salt  on  them,  then  put 


TOMATO  MARMAT.AT>E  OB  8AU0B  FOB  KEATS.  273 

another  layer  of  tomatoes  and  onions,  with  salt  sprinkled  over 
them.  When  you  have  filled  the  jar  or  vessel  with  tomatoes, 
let  them  remain  ahout  a  week,  then  lay  them  in  dishes  to  drain. 
Give  each  tomato  a  gentle  squeeze,  to  get  the  salt  water  out. 
Pnt  them  in  a  jai*  and  cover  with  strong  vinegar.  Boil  a  small 
quantity  of  vinegar  with  pepper,  horseradish,  and  such  other 
spices  as  you  like,  and  pour  it  over  the  tomatoes.  To  two  gal- 
lons of  tomatoes,  use  a  box  of  mustard  dissolved  in  the  vine- 
gar.— MrB.  C.  C, 

Tomato  Marmalade  ob  Sauce  fob  Meats. 

Scald  and  peel  fully  ripe  tomatoes,  then  cut  them  up,  if  large. 
To  twelve  pounds  add  six  pounds  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  beaten 
doves,  one  tablespoonful  spice  and  one  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

Boil  all  in  a  kettle  until  the  syrup  becomes  the  thickness  of 
molasses.  Then  add  one  quart  of  strong  vinegar  and  boil  fox 
ten  minutes.     Pnt  away  in  quart  jars  — Mrs.  Mc  Q, 

Hyden  Salad. 

1  gallon  cabbage. 

\  gallon  green  tomatoes. 

\  gallon  onions, — all  chopped  fine. 

4  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
2  tablespoonfuls  doves. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mustard. 
1^  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Plenty  of  celery-seed. 

\  gallon  strong  vinegar. 
Boil  the  whole  one-half  hour. — Mt9^  H.  D. 

Myden  Salad. 

Cut  one  gaUon  cabbage  as  for  slaw,  one-half  gallon  green  toma* 
toes.     Cut  up  one  pint  green  pepper,  taking  out  the  seed  care- 


•4^*-M. 


274  HTDBN   SALAD. 

fully  and  cutting  up  the  pod  (do  not  uae  the  seed),  one  quart 
onions  cut  up,  and  the  water  pressed  from  them  and  thrown 
away. 

Mix  all  these,  and  sprinkle  through  them  2  tahlespoonfuJa 
ta)t|  and  let  them  stand  over  night     Then  take : 

2  pounds  sugar. 

3  large  spoonfuls  ginger. 

3  large  spoonfuls  turmeric. 

3  spoonfuls  celery-seed. 

3  spoonfuls  ground  mustard. 

2  spoonfuls  allspice. 

2  spoonfuls  cinnamon. 

1  spoonful  cloves. 

1  spoonful  mace. 
Beat  all  fine,  and  mix  with  the  salad  ;  pour  over  the  whole 
three  quarts  good  vinegar,  and  simmer  for  twenty  minutes. 
Beady  for  use  very  soon,  and  very  good. — Mrs,  C.  M.  A. 

Hyden  Salad, 

1  gallon  cabbage,  chopped  fine. 
^  gallon  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine. 
^  pint  green  pepper,  chopped  fine. 
1  pint  onions,  chopped  fine. 
Sprinkle  salt,  and  let  it  stand  overnight ;  next  morning,  poui 
boiling  water  over,  and  squeeze  dry.     Take : 

2  ounces  ginger. 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 
1  ounce  cinnamon. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

2  pounds  sugar. 
2  spoonfuls  salt. 

^  gallon  vinegar.     Boil  ten  luinutes. — Mrs.  H. 


HTD1EN  SALAD.  275 

Hyden  Salad. 

C  ut  up  fine,  1  gallon  cabbage. 
\  gallon  green  tomatoes. 
\  pint  green  pepper. 

1  quart  onions  minoed,  the  juice  thrown  away. 
Add  to  all  these : 

4  tablespoonfub  ground  mustard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

1  tabiespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tabiespoonful  cloves. 

2  ounces  of  turmeric. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 
Mix  all  well  together,  add  one-half  gallon  good  vinegar,  and 
boil  slowly  twenty  minutes.    Take  the  seed  out  of  the  green 
pepper.     Make  late  in  the  summer. — Mrs,  R. 

By  dm  Salad, 

1  gallon  of  finely  chopped  cabbage. 

1^  gallon  green  tomatoes. 

1  pint  green  peppers — )•  pint  will  do. 

1  quart  onions. 

^  pint  horseradish. 

1  pound  sugar. 
\  gallon  vinegar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
1  tabiespoonful  cloves. 

1  tabiespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tabiespoonful  celery-seed* 

2  spoonfuls  salt. 

Beat  the  spice  well,  mix  all  together  well,  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes. 


976  OIL  MANG0B8— <rO  MAKE  OIL  MANGOES. 

Black  peppers  can  be  used  instead  of  the  green,  one  table* 
spoonful  ground. — Mr9.  M  C.  G. 

Oil  Mangoes. 

1  pound  race  ginger,  well  soaked,  beaten  and  d/ied. 

1  pound  horseradish. 

1  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

1  pound  black  mustard- seed. 

2  ounces  ground  mustard. 
2  ounces  black  pepper. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 
2  ounces  doves. 
^  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

Beat  the  ingredients  together  in  a  mortar,  and  mix  the  mus- 
tard with  as  much  olive  oil  as  will  make  a  paste.  Then  after 
the  mangoes  have  been  in  brine  two  weeks,  and  greened  as  jou 
would  cucumbers,  stuff  them;  if  any  filling  is  left,  sprinkle 
between  the  layers  in  the  jar.  Pour  over  as  much  boiling  vin 
egar  as  will  cover  them. — JIfrs.  T,  C, 

To  Make  Oil  Mangoes. 

Put  the  mangoes  in  strong  brine  for  five  days.     Wash  them, 
and  remove  the  seed. 
Stuffing  for  the  same. 

H  pound  white  mustard-seed. 
^  pound  pounded  ginger. 
)-  pound  black  pepper,  pounded. 
4  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed. 
3  ounces  mace. 
Bfix  these  ingredients  with  as  little  oil  as  possible,  stuff  the 
mangoes  with  it,  adding  scraped  horseradish  and  one  blade  of 
gazlic.   Pour  cold  vinegar  over  them,  and  one  pound  salt.     Press 


OREBN  HANOOB8 — STUFFINO  FOB  SIXTY  MANOOES.      277 

the  mangoes  under  the  vinegar,  and  watch  them  closely.     It  ii 
well  to  scalJ  the  vinegar  in  the  spiing. — Mrs.  H.  T. 

To  Green  Mangoes. 

A  ftcr  taking  them  from  the  brine,  lay  them  in  a  kettle  with 
gra|)e-vine  leaves  between  each  layer  of  mangoes ;  a  little  alum 
sprinkled  on  each  layer.  Let  them  simmer  all  day,  changing 
the  leaves  if  necessary.  If  not  green  enough,  put  them  on  the 
second  day. — Mrs,  E, 

Makooes. 

'i'o  a  three-gallon  jar  of  mangoes  prepared  for  tlic  vinegar, 
take: 

1  teacup  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  allspice. 
\  ounce  ginger. 
\  ounce  mace. 

\  ounce  cloves,  beat  well,  but  not  fine. 
Take  one  head  of  raw  cabbage. 
8  onions. 

2  teacups  of  horseradish. 
1  quart  of  mustard-seed. 

Take  half  the  beaten  spices,  and  mix  with  the  lattei 
ingredients,  also  three  cups  of  brown  sugar ;  besides,  put  one 
teaspoonful  brown  sugar  in  each  mango  before  you  put  in  the 
stuffing. 

It  takes  five  pounds  of  sugar  for  a  three-gallon  jar.  The  bal- 
ance of  the  sugar  mix  with  the  spice  and  vinegar  enou^'»  to 
cover  the  pickle. — Mrs.  H,  C. 

Stuffing  for  Sixty  Mangoes. 

1  pound  black  mustard-seed. 

1  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

2  pounds  chopped  onion. 
1  ounce  mace. 


378  PSAOU  1CANOOB8. 

1  ounce  nutmeg. 

2  handfula  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  tuiineric,  well  mixed  with  cold  water. 
Pound  the  mace,  nutmeg,  and  pep|»er. 
1  cup  sweet  oil. 
^  pound  English  mustard. 
4  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Mix  all  these  well  together,  throwing  in  little  bits  of  mango 
or  cucumbers. 

Peach  Mangoes. 

Pour  boiling  salt  water  over  the  peaches — ^let  them  stand  two 
days ;  take  them  out  and  slit  them  on  one  side,  and  put  them 
in  turmeric  vinegar  for  two  days.  Extract  the  seed,  stuff  and 
sew  them  up,  and  put  in  the  prepared  vinegar.  Prepare  the 
stuffing  as  follows :  chop  some  of  the  peaches  from  the  turmeric 
vinegar,  add  a  large  quantity  of  mustard-seed,  celery-seed,  a 
good  deal  of  brown  sugar— one  pound  to  two  and  a  half  pounds 
peaches;  ground  ginger,  cinnamon,  cloves,  pepper,  turmeric,  and 
any  other  spices,  if  you  like.  Onions  chopped  fine.  Vinegar 
to  be  seasoned  the  same  way ;  and  any  of  the  stuffing  left  may 
be  put  in  the  vinegar. — Mrs,  0,  O. 

JPeach  Mcmgoes, 

Bemove  the  stones  from  large  white  Heath  peaches  by  cut- 
ting in  halyes.  Stuff  them  with  white  mustard-seed,  a  little 
pounded  mace,  turmeric,  and  celery-seed.  Sew  them  up,  and 
drop  them  in  with  the  yellow  cabbage. — Mrs,  S,  T, 

I^each  Mcmgoea, 

Poui  boiling  salt  water  over  the  peaches,  let  them  stand  two 
days ;  then  take  them  out,  slit  them  on  the  side,  and  put  them 
in  turmeric  vinegar  for  two  days  or  longer.  Take  them  out, 
extract  the  seed,  stuff  them,  sew  them  up,  and  put  into  the 
prepared  vinegar.     To  prepare  the  stuffing : 

Chop  up  some  of    he  peaches,  add  a  large  quantity  of  white 


PSAOU  MAN00B8 — PSFPER  MANQOES.        27S 

mustard-seed,  a  good  deal  of  brown  sugar,  some  ground  ginger, 
cinnaiijon,  cloves,  pepper,  turmeric,  celery-seed,  also  a  great  deal 
of  chopped  onion.  Vinegar,  seasoned  with  same  ingredients. 
Quantity  of  spices  can  be  regulated  hy  your  taste. — Misa  S. 

JPeach  Mangoes. 

Take  large  plum  peaches,  sufficient  quantity  to  fill  the  jar. 
Peel  nicely,  and  take  out  the  stones.  Have  ready  the  stuffing 
in  proportion  to  the  peaches.  Mince  fine  some  soft  peaches, 
preserved  orange  peel,  preserved  ginger,  coriauder-seed,  celery- 
seed,  a  small  quantity  mace,  cinnamon,  candied  strawberries,  if 
you  have  them,  and  pickled  cherries.  Sew  the  peaches  up,  after 
stuffing  them,  and  fill  the  jar.  Then  to  every  pound  coffee 
sugar  add  one-half  pint  vinegar,  allowing  the  above  quantity 
to  two  pounds  fruit.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  vinegar, 
and  pour  on  the  peaches,  boiling-hot  Repeat  this  for  tliree 
mornings ;  the  fourth  morning  put  them  all  on  together,  and  boil 
a  short  time ;  add  a  few  spices,  cinnamon,  and  ginger  to  the 
syrup  when  you  make  it.  They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few 
weeks. — Mrs.  H. 

Pepper  Mangoes. 

With  a  shar|)  knife  take  the  cap  out  of  the  pod,  then  scrape 
out  the  seed.  Lay  the  pods  in  weak  salt  and  water  for  one 
hour. 

Take  hard  cabbage,  chop  them  very  fine,  and  to  every  quart  of 
eabbage,  add 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  pulverized  black  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard-seed. 
1  teaspoonful  ground  mustard. 

Mix  all  this  well  together,  di*ain  the  peppers,  and  stuff  them 
with  the  mixture,  and  replace  the  cap. 

Pack  them  closeiy  in  a  stone  jar,  with  the  small  end  down- 
wards.    Do  i  his  until  the  jar  is  filled ;  then  pour  on  them  strong 


280  TO  PIOKLB  WALNUTS — WALNUT  FIOKLE. 

cold  vinegar.     Tliey  are  ready  for  use  in  three  weeks.     You 
can  use  spices  and  sagar^  if  preferred. — Mrs,  Wi  A,  J3. 

To  PicKLB  Walnuts. 

After  the  wahiuts  have  been  in  bnne  six  weeks,  scrape  and 
wipe  them  with  a  coai-se  towel.  Put  them  in  plain  vinegar,  and 
let  them  remain  for  a  week  or  two.  Di*ain  them  well — ^place  in 
a  jar,  and  pour  over  them  vinegar  spiced  and  prepared  as  for  yel- 
low  pickles,  omitting  the  turmeric  and  lemons,  and  using  black 
pepper  instead  of  white. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Walnut  Pickle. 

The  walnuts  must  be  quite  green  and  tender.  First  soak 
them  in  fi*esh  water,  then  rub  off  with  a  coarse  towel.  The  wal- 
nuts must  be  kept  in  brine  a  week,  and  then  soaked  in  clear 
water  for  several  hours.  Boil  them  in  vinegar  a  little  while — 
this  time  put  water  in  the  vinegar ;  then  put  them  in  good 
strong  vinegar,  a  portion  of  which  must  be  boiled  and  poui*ed 
over  them  four  successive  mornings.  Season  with  cinnamon, 
mace,  cloves,  and  add  two  pounds  sugar  to  one  gallon  vinegar, 
or  in  proportion  to  quantity  of  pickle. — Mrs.  G.  C 

Walnut  Pickle. 

Gather  the  nuts  about  the  10th  or  20  th  of  June,  when  they 
are  sufficiently  tender  to  be  pierced  with  a  pin ;  pour  boiling 
salt  water  on,  and  let  them  be  covered  with  it  nine  days,  chang- 
ing it  every  third  day.  Put  them  on  dishes  to  air,  until  they 
are  black ;  then  soak  out  the  salt,  and  put  them  in  weak  vinegar 
for  a  day  or  two ;  put  into  the  ;ar,  and  pour  on  hot  the  follow- 
ing pickled  vinegar : 

7  ounces  ginger. 

7  ounces  of  garlic. 

7  ounces  of  salt. 

7  ounces  of  horseradish. 

^  ounce  red  pepper. 


WAI^NUT  PICKLB — ^PIOKLSD  MABTINA8.  881 

i  ounce  of  orange  peel. 

^  ounce  of  mace. 

^  ounce  of  cloves,  all  boiled  in  1  gallon  strong  vinegar. 

1  ounce  black  pepper  also. — Jfrs,  JT.  H,  F. 

WoImU  FickU. 

Put  the  walnuts  in  salt  water  for  five  or  six  weeks;  then  in 
fresh  water  for  twenty-four  hours ;  boil  in  weak  vinegar  and 
water  until  soft  enough  to  run  a  straw  through.  Then  rub 
them  with  a  coarse  towel;  make  a  strong  liquor  of  vinegar, 
horseradish,  garlic,  and  mace ;  pour  on,  and  leave  them  till  ready 
for  use,  in  two  or  thi'ee  weeks. — Mrs,  2\ 

To  Pickle  Mabtinas. 

Take  one  gallon  pot  full  of  martinas.  Make  a  brine  strong 
enough  to  bear  an  egg ;  keep  them  covered  for  ten  days.  Take 
them  out  and  wash  them  in  cold  water,  then  put  them  in  cold 
vinegar.  Let  them  remain  for  ten  days ;  drain  them,  and  put 
them  in  the  jar  intended  for  use.  In  half  a  gallon  of  vinegar 
scald  a  large  handful  of  horseradish,  scraped  fine. 

A  cupful  black  pepper. 

1  cupful  ginger. 

i  cupful  black  mustard-seed. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  beaten  cloves. 

3  onions  sliced  fine. 

1  pod  red  pepper. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Pour  them  over  the  pickle,  and  fill  with  cold  vinegar. — Mrs. 
8,D. 

Pickled  Martinas. 

Put  three  gallons  of  martinas  in  very  strong  brine,  keep 

covered  for  ten  days,  then  wash  them  in  cold  water,  and  put 

them  in  vinegar  to  stand  ten  more  days ;  then  drain  and  put 

them  in  the  jar  intended  for  them.     In  three  pints  of  vinegar, 

scald: 

24 


282  TO  FIOKLB  HABTINA8 — OHOW-OHOW  PIOKLB. 

A  large  handful  of  scraped  horseradish. 

1  cup  allspice. 

^  cup  black  pepper. 

1  cup  of  ginger. 

i  cup  of  black  mustard. 

3  large  spoonfuls  of  cloyes,  all  beaten. 

3  onions  sliced. 

1  pod  red  pepper. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 

Pour  it  over  thb  martinas,  and  fill  up  with  cold  vinegar.-— 

iUwtf  JS  T. 

To  PicKiiE  Martinas. 

Put  llftj  martinai  in  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water,  let 
them  remain  a  weelk  or  ten  days.  Then  wash  them,  and  put 
them  in  cold  vinegar,  to  soak  the  salt  and  greenish  taste  out  of 
them.  When  ready  to  pickle,  lay  them  out  to  drain;  scald 
the  following  ingredit'^nts  in  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  pour  over 
them  in  a  jar ;  if  not  tuil,  fill  up  with  cold  vinegar, 
1  large  han/tful  of  sliced  horseradish. 

1  teacup  of  aUspice. 

i  cup  of  black  pepper. 

^  cup  of  mustard-seed  (black). 

2  tablespoonfuls  cloves. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

3  or  four  onions,  sliced. 

The  spices  to  be  beaten,  but  not  too  fine.     This  quantity  fiUa 
a  two-gallon  jar. — Mrs,  tT.  J*.  M, 

Chow-Chow  Piokle. 

\  peck  green  tomatoes. 

2  large  cabbages. 

15  onions. 

25  cucumbers. 

1  plate  horseradish. 

^  pound  mustard-seed. 


OUOW-OHOW.  S8 


? 


1  ounce  celeiy-seed. 

2  ounces  ground  pepper. 
2  ounces  turmeiic. 

^  ounce  cinnamon. 
Out  the  onions,  tomatoes,  cucumbers  and  cabbage  in  small 
pieces;  pack  them  down  overnight  in  salt,  lightly;  in  the 
morning  pour  off  the  brine,  and  put  them  to  soak  in  weak  vin- 
egar two  days;  drain  again,  and  mix  the  spices.  Boil  half  a 
gallon  vinegar  and  three  pounds  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  hot. 
Mix  two  boxes  ground  seed. — Mrs,  R,  A, 

Chow-Chow. 

^  peck  onions. 
^  peck  green  tomatoes. 
5  dozen  cucumbers. 
Slice  all  very  fine,  and  put  in  a  few  whole  cucumbers,  one 
pint  small  red  and  green  peppers ;  sprinkle  one  pint  salt  over 
them,  and  let  them  stand  all  night ;  then  add  : 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  white  mustard- seed. 
1  ounce  celery-seed. 
1  ounce  turmeric. 

1  ounce  whole  cloves. 

3  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

1  stalk  horseradish,  grated  fine. 
Cover  all  with  one  gallon  and  one  pint  of  strong  vinegaTi  and 
boil  thirt}'  minutes. — Miss  E,  T. 

Gliow-  Chow, 

\  peck  onions. 

\  peck  green  tomatoes. 

3  dozen  large  cucumbers. 

4  large  green  peppers. 

\  pint  small  peppers,  red  and  green. 


284  OHOW-OHOW  FIGKLB— OHOW-OHOW. 

Sprinkle  one  pint  salt  on,  and  let  them  Btand  all  night ;  the 
cucumbers  not  peeled,  but  sliced  one  inch  thick,  the  onions 
also  sliced.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  brinoi  and  add  to  the 
pickles : 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  white  mustard-seed* 

1  ounce  turmeria 
^  ounce  doves. 

^  ounce  celery-seed. 

3  tablespoonfuls  made  mustard. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
With  a  little  horseradi&h. 

Cover  with  vinegar,  and  boil  till  tender,  a  half-hour  or  more 
When  cold,  ready  for  use. — Mrs,  C,  N". 

Chow-Chow  Picklb. 

1  gallon  chopped  cabbage. 
4  onions. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
2  pints  strong  vinegar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  allspice. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  celery-seed. 

^  pint  mustard-seed. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  mustard. 

The  cabbage  and  onions  must  stand  in  strong  salt  and  water 

two  hours,  then  place  in  a  brass  kettle,  with  the  vinegar  and 

spices,  and  sugar;  boil  until  syrup  is  formed.      Excellent. — 

Mrs.  J,  H.  F, 

Chow-Chow. 

Tlie  recipe  is  for  one  gallon  pickle ;  for  more,  the  quantitli 
must  be  increased,  of  course.     The  ingredients  consist  of: 

\  peck  green  tomatoes. 
1  large  head  of  cabbage. 


LEBBBUBO  OHOW-CHOW.  2S5 

6  large  onions. 

1  dozen  cucumbers. 

•^  pint  grated  horseradish 

^  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

i  ounce  celery-seed. 

A  few  small  onions. 

^  teacup  ground  pepper. 

Turmeric,  ground  cinnamon. 

A  little  brown  sugar. 
Out  the  cabbage,  onions  and  cucumbers  into  small  pieces,  ani 
pack  them  down  in  salt  one  night ;  then  put  in  vinegar,  poured 
over  hot.  Do  this  three  mornings.  The  third  morning,  mix 
one  box  ground  mustard  with  one-quarter  pint  salad  oil.  To 
be  mixed  in  while  warm. — Mrs.  O.  JB. 

Lbbsburo  Chow-Chow. 

^  peck  green  tomatoes. 
2  large  heads  cabbage. 
15  large  white  onions. 
25  cucumbers. 
Gut  these  up,  and  pack  in  salt  for  a  night.     Drain  otf,  and 
then  soak  in  vinegar  and  water  for  two  days.     Drain  again. 
Mix  with  this,  then : 

1  pint  grated  horseradish. 
)•  pint  small  white  onions. 
^  pound  white  mustard-seed. 
1  ounce  celery-seed. 
^  teacup  ground  black  pepper. 
^  teacup  turmeric. 
^  teacup  cinnamon. 
Pour  over  one  and  a  half  gallons  boiling  hot  vinegar.     Boil 
this  vinegar  for  three  mornings ;  the  third  morning,  mix  with 
two  boxes  mustard,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  and  half-pint 
sweet  oil. — Jiry.  Jl  S,  D. 


286  8WSBT  PICKLE  FBA0HB8— FIOKLKD  P£AUHE8. 

Sweet  Pickle  Peaches. 

Powder  clovefl,  mace,  and  allspice,  and  mix  well  together 
To  every  pound  fruit  add  one-quarter  pound  sugar,  one  gill 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  the  mixed  spices.  Boil  all  together, 
and  when  the  fruit  is  done,  take  from  the  sjrup,  and  lay  on  dish- 
es. Let  the  syrup  cook  thoroughly.  Put  the  fruit  in  jars,  and 
pour  on  the  syrup.     Cover  when  cool. — Mrs.  D.  H. 

To  Pickle  Peaches. 

1  pound  peaches. 
i  pound  sugar. 
1  pint  vinegar. 

Mace,  cloves,  cinnamon ;  boil  the  ingredients  every  day,  for 
six  days,  and  pour  over  the  peaches. — Mrs.  F,  Z>.  G-, 

Spiced  Peaches. 

Take  nine  pounds  npe  peaches,  rub  them  with  a  coarse  towel, 
and  halve  them.  Put  four  pounds  sugar  and  one  pint  good 
vinegar  in  the  kettle  with  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  mace.  When 
the  syrup  is  formed,  throw  in  the  peaches  a  few  at  a  time ; 
when  clear,  take  them  out  and  put  in  more.  Boil  the  syrup 
till  quite  rich ;  pour  it  over  the  peaches. 

Cherries  can  be  pickled  in  the  same  way. — Mn,  C,  (7. 

Peaches  to  Pickle. 

Make  a  syrup  with  one  quart  vinegar  and  three  pounds 

sugar ;  peel  the  peaches  and  put  them  in  the  vinegar,  and  let 

boil  very  little.     Take  out  the  fruit,  and  let  the  vinegar  boil 

half  an  hour,    adding  cinnamon,  cloves,  and   allspice. — J/r«. 

A.H. 

Pickled  Peaches. 

Take  peaches  pretty  ripe,  but  not  mellow ;  wipe  with  flannel  as 
smooth  as  possible ;  stick  a  few  cloves  in  each  one.  One  pound 
sugar  to  one  pint  vinegar.  Allow  three  pounds  sugar  and  three 
pints  vinegar  to  one  pan  peaches.     Scald  the  vinegar,  then  put 


PTOKLED  PBAOHES — OANTALOUPK  PICKLE.  287 

on  the  peaches  ;  boil  till  nearly  sofb^  then  take  out  and  boil  the 
▼inegar  a  little  longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit.— Jlfr«.  Q.  JP. 

PicJded  Peaches, 

Put  the  peaches  in  strong  brine,  and  let  them  remain  three  ot 
four  days ;  take  them  out,  and  wipe  them  dry  ;  put  them  in  a 
pot  with  allspice,  pepper,  ginger,  and  horseradish;  boil  some 
turmeric  in  your  vinegar.     Pour  it  on  hot. — Mies  M.  T, 

Peach,  Pear,  Quikce  and  Apple  Pickle. 

1  pound  fruit. 

^  pound  sugar 

^  pint  vinegar. 
Dissolve  sugar  and  vinegar  together ;  put  a  small  quantity  of 
fruit ;  boil  until  you  can  stick  a  straw  through  it.    Season  with 
cinnamon  and  mace.     Kescald  the  vinegar,  and  pour  over  tl;" 
fruit  for  nine  mornings. — Mrs.  Dr.  J", 

Sweet  Pickle.     {Honolulu  Melon.) 

4  pints  vinegar,  very  dear. 

4  pints  sugar 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  oimce  cinnamon. 
Put  all  to  boil,  then  drop  in  the  melons,  as  much  as  the  vinegar 
will  cover,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.    Put  them  in  jars,  and  every 
day,  for  two  or  three  days,  pour  oif  the  vinegar,  boil  it  over,  and 
pour  on  the  pickles  until  they  seem  done. — Jfrs.  3f,W.T. 

Cantaloupe  Pickle. 

Out  up  ripe  melons  into  small  sqiiare  pieces,  peel  and  scrape 
out  the  soft  pulp  and  seeds,  soak  one  night  in  alum  water,  and 
then  boil  in  strong  ginger  tea.  Tlien  to  each  pound  of  fruit  add 
three-quarters  of  a  poimd  loaf  sugar,  mace,  cinnamon,  and  white 
ginger  to  the  taste,  and  cover  with  best  cider  vinegar  Boil 
till  it  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw,  then  set  aside,  and  the  next 


288      OANTALOUPS  PIOKLB — BWEET  WATICBMSLON  FIGKLK. 

day  pour  off,  and  boil  the  Ryrup  until  it  thickens  a  little,  and 
return  to  the  fruit  boiling-hot. — Mrs.  F,  F.  F. 

CofiUaloupe  PiMe, 

Pare  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  cover  with  vinegar ;  pour  oflT 
and  measure,  and  to  each  pint  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
brown  sugar  *  cloves  and  mace  to  your  taste. 

Boil  the  syi*up,  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  until  clear ;  then  take 
out  the  fruit,  boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  pour  it  on  the 
pickles,  hot.     When  cold,  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  E.  Z 

CcunUdoupe  Fickle, 

Take  four  or  five  cantaloupes,  quarter,  and  cover  with  vinegar ; 
to  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  measure  off  the  vinegar, 
leaving  out  one  quart.  To  each  quart,  add  three  pounds  brown 
sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  mace  to  the  taste.  Place  the 
spiced  vinegar  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  boiled  awhile,  drop 
in  the  fruit,  cooking  it  thirty  or  forty  minutes. — Ifrs.  H.  P, 

Ripe  Muskhelok  Pickles. 

Take  hard  melons,  after  they  are  sufficiently  ripe  to  be  well 
flavored.  Slice  them  lengthwise,  scrape  out  the  seed,  and  lay 
the  melon  in  salt  over  night ;  wash  and  wipe  diy,  put  them  in 
alum  water  one  hour,  wash  and  wipe  them  again ;  cut  them  in 
slices  and  pack  in  jars.  Pour  over  them  a  syrup  of  vinegar 
seasoned  with  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  put  three  or  four  pounds  of 
sugar  to  one  gallon  vinegar,  and  boil  until  it  is  right  thick. — 
Mrs,  A.  C. 

Sweet  Watermelon  Pickle. 

Trim  the  rinds  nicely,  being  careful  to  cut  off  the  hard  coat- 
ing with  the  outer  green.  Weigh  ten  pounds  rind  and  throw 
it  in  a  kettle,  and  cover  with  soft  water ;  let  this  boil  gently  foi 
half  an  hour,  take  it  off  and  lay  it  on  dishes  to  drain.  Next 
morning  put  one  quart  vinegar,  three  ptiunds  brown  sugar,  one 


WATERMELON  FIOKLE — ^I>1CKLED  PLUMS.  289 

ounce  cmnamon,  one  ounce  mAce,  the  white  of  one  egg  wM 
beaten  and  thrown  on  top  of  the  liquid  (to  clear  it  as  you  would 
jelly),  three  teaspoonfuls  turmeric,  all  together  in  a  kettle,  and 
boil  for  a  few  minutes ;  skim  off  what  rises  as  scum  with  the 
egg.  Throw  in  the  rind,  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  The 
peel  of  two  fresh  lemons  will  give  a  nice  flavor,  though  not  at 
all  necessary. — Mrs.  L,  W*  C, 

Watermelon  Pickle. 

4  pounds  watermelon  rind. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

1  pint  vinegar. 

Mace,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  ginger  to  the  taste. 
Peel  the  rind  and  cut  in  pieces ;  boil  in  ginger  tea  till  clear, 
then  throw  in  cold  water  ovei-night.     Next  morning  make  a 
syrup  and  preserve  the  rind ;  just  before  taking  off  the  fire, 
pour  in  the  vinegar. — Mrs.  A,  T, 

Watermelon  Rind  Pickle. 

Ten  pounds  melon,  boll  in  water  until  tender.  Drain  the 
water  off.  Make  a  syrup  of  two  pounds  sugar,  one  quart 
vinegar,  one-half  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  cinnamon ;  boil  all 
this  and  pour  over  rind  boiling-hot ;  drain  off  the  syrup  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil ;  then  pour  it  over  the  melons. — Mrs.  C.  C. 

McP. 

Pickle  op  Watermelon  Rind. 

Out  in  pieces  and  soak  the  rind  in  weak  salt  and  water  for 
twenty-four  hours — of  course  having  first  peeled  off  the  out- 
side. To  seven  pounds  rind  put  thiee  pounds  sugar  ;  scald 
well  in  ginger  tea,  and  make  a  syiiip  of  the  sugar  and  vinegar, 
enough  to  cover  the  rind.  Season  the  syrup  with  mace  and 
ginger,  and  boil  the  rind  in  it  till  tender.     A  delicious  pickle. — 

Mrs.  Dr.  P.  a 

Pickled  Plums. 

7  pounds  sweet  blue  plums. 

4  pounds  brown  sugar. 

2o 


290  Ta  PIOICLK  OAHSONB — aEBMAN  FICKLB. 

2  ounces  stick  cinnamon. 

2  ounces  whole  cloves. 

1  quart  vinegar. 
Put  a  layer  of  plums  ami  apice  alternately ;  scald  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  togetlier ;  pour  it  on  the  plums ;  repeat  for  two  or 
three  days,  the  last  time  scalding  plums  and  sjrup  together. — 
Mr8.  W. 

To  Fickle  Damsons. 

Take  seven  pounds  damsons,  wasli  and  wipe  them  dry,  three 
pounds  sugar,  one-half  ounce  cinnamon,  half-ounce  mace,  half- 
ounce  cloves,  hcalf-ounce  allspice. 

With  one  quart  strong  vinegar  and  tlie  sugar  make  a  syrup, 
and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  boiling-hot.  Let  it  stand  twenty- 
four  horn's  ;  repeat  tlie  boiling  next  day,  and  let  it  remain  twen- 
ty-four hours  longer  ;  then  put  all  on  the  fire  together  and  cook 
till  the  fruit  is  done. — Miss  JJ.  JJ, 

Sweet  Pickle. 

Boil  in  three  quarts  of  vinegar  four  or  five  pounds  sugar,  one 
ounce  cinnamon,  one  ounce  allspice,  one  ounce  mace,  one-half 
ounce  cloves,  and  pour  all  over  fourt^^en  pounds  damsons  or 
peeled  peaches. — Mrs.  O.  li. 

Geuman  Pickle. 

^  i)Ound  white  sugar. 

1  pound  damsons. 

1  pint  vinegar. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

A  few  sticks  of  cinnamon. 
Make  a  syrup  with  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices,  then  drop  in  a 
few  of  the  damsons  at  a  time.     Scald  them  until  tlie  skins  crack, 
laying  each   quantity  in  a  disli   till  all  are  done.     Fill  the  jars 
three- fourths  full,  and  jiour  in  the  .syrup. — Mrs,  R,  Zi.  P, 


OOXFOBITION  PICKLE — ^BAOOtlT  PIOKLB.  291 

Damson  Pickle. 

7  pounds  fruit. 

1  ounce  ciunanion. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Spices  to  be  beaten  fine  ;  put  them  in  the  jar,  sprinkling  the 
spice  through  in  layers.     Boil  one  quart  vinegar  with  the  sugar, 
and  pour  over  the  fruit  and  spices.     Repeat  the  scalding  of  the 
vinegar  for  four  days. — Mrs,  C.  N, 

Composition  Pickle. 

1  gallon  chopped  cabbage, 
^  gallon  green  tomatoes,  sliced, 
^  gallon  cucumbers, 
1  quart  onions, 
a]l  finely  chopped.     Let  them  stew  several  houi-s,  then  <)riur 
oif  the  water.     Add  : 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 
2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

2  ounces  turmetic. 

2  ounces  celery  seed. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

2  spoonfuls  salt 

\  gallon  stroug  vinegar ;  boil  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  G, 

Raoo(;t  Pickle. 

2  gallons  chopped  cabbage. 

%  gallons  green  or  lipe  tomatoes. 
6  tablespoons  of  mustard,  ground. 

3  gills  mustard-seed. 

2  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 


293  KBNTUCKV    PICKLE — ^FAENOH   PIGKLS. 

2  teaspoonfuls  doves. 
1  gill  salt. 

1  pint  chopped  odIods. 

1  pound  brown  sugar. 

Some  chopped  celery,  or  celery-seed. 

3  quarts  good  cider  vinegar. 

BoiJ  all  well  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. — Miaa  JS.  T. 

Kentucky  Pickle. 

Take  green  tomatoes,  cabbage,  and  onions,  about  equal  quan- 
tities— ^grind  them  in  a  sausage  machine.  Salt,  and  put  the 
mixture  in  a  bag,  and  let  it  hang  all  night  or  until  the  juice  has 
run  from  it — then  season  with  red  and  black  pepper,  mustard- 
seed,  celery-seed,  cloves,  sugar. 

Pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with  strong  cold  vinegar. — Mrs,  M,  JJ. 

French  Pickles. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes. 

\  peck  onions. 

\  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

1  ounce  allspice. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  bottle  mixed  mustard. 

2  tablespooufuls  black  pepper. 
1  tablespoouful  cayenne. 

1  ounce  celery-seed*. 

1  pound  brown  sugar. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  and  lay  them  in  salt  for  twelve  hours ;  pour 

off  the  brine. 

Slice  the  onions,  and  put   a  layer  of  onions,  tomatoes,  spices 

and  sugar  into  a  bell-metal  kettle,  until  the  ingredients  are 

all  in.     Pour  in  vinegar  until  well  covered,  and  boil  for  one 

hour. — Mrs,  Dr,  iS. 

French  IHckle, 

1  gallon  cabbage. 

^  gallon  green  tomatoes. 


8PANI8H  PIOKLE — ONION  PICKLE.  298 

1  quart  onions. 

6  pods  green  pepper,  without  the  seed. 

3  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard,  or  seed. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  tablespoonful  hoi-seradish. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  cloves. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  oeleiy. 

^  pound  sugar. 

^  gallon  vinegar. 
Chop  up  cabbage,  tomatoes,  onions,  and  pepper ;  sprinkle  salt 
over  it,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  so,  and  pour  off  the  liquor. 
Add  spices  and  vinegar,  boil  all  together  until  you  can  stick  a 
sti'aw  through  the  cabbage  and  tomatoes.  This,  as  you  see,  will 
only  make  a  small  quantity  when  boiled  down.—  Mrs,  M. 
MoN. 

Spanish  Pickle. 

4  dozen  large  cucumbers. 

4  large  green  peppers. 

\  peck  onions. 

\  peck  green  tomatoes. 
Slice  the  whole,  and  sprinkle  over  with  one  pint  salt,  allow 
them  to  remain  over  night,  then  drain  them.  Put  the  whole 
into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  d  jd  the  following  ingredients : 
sliced  horseradLsh  according  to  your  judgment,  one  ounce  mace, 
one  ounce  white  pepper,  one  ounce  turmeric,  one  ounce  white 
mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce  cloves,  half  an  ounce  celery-seed, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
brown  sugar.  Cover  the  whole  with  vinegar,  and  boil  it  one 
hour. — Mtb.  eTI  eTI  M. 

Onion  Pickle. 

Peel  and  scald  the  onions  in  strong  salt  water  twenty -five  or 
thirty  minutes ;  take  them  out  and  lay  on  dishes  in  the  sun,  a 


394  FIOKLSD  ONIONS — ^AFPLE  PIGKLB. 

day  or  two,  then  pnt  them  in  vinegar  prepared  as  for  cabbage 
pickle. — Mra.  Dr.  J[ 

PiCKLKD  OnIOKB. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  onions  and  let  them  stand  until 
the  brine  gets  cooled  ;  then  change  the  brine  for  nine  momingSy 
warming  it  every  day.  The  ninth  day  put  them  in  fresh  water, 
and  let  them  soak  one  day  and  night.  Then  put  the  spices  and 
vinegar  on  the  fire^  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  drop  in  the 
onions  in  a  few  minutes ;  add  sugar  to  your  taste. — Mrs.  A,  H, 

Lexon  Picklb. 

Rasp  the  lemons  a  little  and  nick  them  at  one  end  ;  lay  them 
in  a  dish  with  very  dry  salt,  let  them  be  near  the  fire,  and 
covered.  They  must  stand  seven  or  eight  days,  then  put  in 
fresh  salt,  and  remain  the  same  time ;  then  wash  them  well,  and 
pour  on  boiling  vinegar,  grated  nutmeg,  mace,  and  whole  pep- 
per. Whenever  the  salt  becomes  damp,  it  must  be  taken  out 
and  dried.  The  lemons  will  not  be  tender  for  nearly  a  year. 
The  time  to  pickle  them  is  about  February. — Mrs.  A. 

Pickling  Fifty  Lemons. 

Grate  off  the  yellow  rind,  cut  off  the  end,  and  pack  in  salt  for 
eight  days.  Set  them  in  a  hot  oven,  in  dishes ;  turning  until  the 
salt  candies  on  them.  Place  them  in  a  pot  and  pour  on  two 
gallons  vinegar  (boiling)  to  which  has  been  added  two  pounds 
white  mustard-seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  mace,  one  pound  ginger, 
four  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed,  one  pound  black  pepper,  two 
pounds  sugar,  one  handful  horseradish  scraped. 

All  the  spices,  except  mustard-seed,  must  be  pulverized.— 
Mr9.E:.P.  G. 

Apple  Pickle. 

3  pounds  apples. 
2  pounds  sugar. 
1  pint  vinegar. 


OHBRRY   PI0KL1C — ^TOMATO  0AT8UP.  395 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

1  tablespoonful  beaton  cinnamon. 

1  dozen  cloves. 

2  teaspoonfuls  allspice. 

1  tablespoonful  beaten  ginger. 
1  tablespoonful  celery-seed. 
Boil  until  the  apples  are  perfectly  clear. — Mrs.  J\  A.  S. 

Cherry  Pickle. 

Pick  firm,  ripe,  short-stem  cherries,  and  lay  them  in  a  stone 
jar,  with  the  stems  on.  Put  into  a  kettle  yinegar,  sweetened 
to  your  taste,  allspice,  mace,  cloves,  and  cinnamon. 

Put  on  the  fire  until  it  is  scalding  hot,  then  pour  over  the 
cherries,  and  let  them  stand  until  next  day,  when  the  vinegar 
must  be  poured  off  them  into  the  kettle  again,  and  scalded  as 
before,  and  poui*ed  on  the  cherries.  Repeat  this  for  nine  morn- 
ings, and  your  pickle  is  ready  for  use. — JIfrs.  C, 

Pickled  Blackberries. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  powdered 

cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one 

teaspoonful  nutmeg.     Boil  all  together,  gently,  fifteen  minutes, 

then  add  four  quarts  blackberries,  and  scald  (but  not  boil)  ten 

minutes  more.     The  spices  can  be  omitted,   if  preferred. — 

Mrs.  W. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Take  sound,  ripe  tomatoes,  grate  them  on  a  coarse  grater,  then 
strain  through  a  wire  sieve,  throwing  away  the  skins  and  seed. 
Then  put  the  liquid  in  a  cotton  bag  and  let  it  drip  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Take  the  residuum  and  thin  to  the  proper  consis- 
tency with  vinegar.  Then  season  it  to  your  taste  with  garlic, 
salt,  pepper,  and  spices. — Mrs,  A.  A, 

Tomato  Catsup, 
One-half  bushel  tomatoes  stewed  sufficiently  to  be  strained 


296  COLD  TOMATO  CATSUP — ^TOMATO  CATSUP. 

through  a  colander ;  to  every  gallon  of  pulp  add  three  quarti 
8ti*0Dg  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls 
grated  horseradish,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  three  large  onions 
chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  black  pepper.  Boil  till  quite 
thick. — Mr 8,  C,  B, 

Cold  Tomato  Catsup. 

^  peck  ripe  tomatoes. 

^  gallon  vinegar. 

1  teacup  salt. 

1  teacup  mustard,  ground  fine. 

4  pods  red  pepper. 

3  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 

A  handful  celery -seed. 

1  cup  horseradish. 
All  of  the  ingredients  must  be  cut  fine,  and  mixed  cold.     Put 
in  bottles,  cork,  and  seal  tight.     It  is  better  kept  awhile. — 
Mrs.  P. 

Tomato   Catsup. 

1  gallon  pulp  of  tomatoes. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish. 
2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

§-  gallon  vinegar. 
Boil  all  well  together,  then  add  three  pounds  sugar,  and  boil 
awhile. — Mrs.  M.  S.  C. 

Tomato   CcUsup. 

Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  about  one  pint  water,  fill  up  the 
kettle  with  ripe  I'ed  tomatoes,  previously  washed  and  picked, 
with  the  skins  on,  cover  closely,  and  set  on  a  hot  fire ;  frequently 
stirring  that  they  may  not  stick  to  the  bottom.     Boil  about  one 


OUOUMBBB  OATStJP.  207 

hour.  Turn  into  a  wooden  tray ;  when  cool  enough,  rub  through 
a  coarse  sieve,  through  which  neither  skin  nor  seed  can  pass. 
Measure  five  quarts  of  this  pulp,  and  boil  until  very  thick,  then 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  horseradish,  two  tablespoonfuls  white 
mustard-seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  black  pepper  beaten  fine,  two  or  three  races  of  ginger 
beaten  fine,  three  or  four  onions  chopped  fine,  a  little  garlic, 
one  nutmeg,  salt  and  sugar  to  the  taste. 

Stir  all  in,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  in  one  quart 
Btrong  cider  vinegar.  Let  it  boil  up  once  more,  and  take  ofi*  the 
fire.     Bottle,  cork,  and  seal. — Mrs,  8,  T. 

Cucumber  Oatstf. 

Pare  and  grate  the  cucumbers.  To  one  quart  of  cucumbei's 
add  three  large  onions  grated,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  and  as  much  vinegar  as  cucumbers.  Exclude 
the  air. — Mrs,  L.  P. 

CucvmhtT  Catsup. 

Grate  three  cucumbers ;  one  onion,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one 
tablespoonful  black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  pounded  celery-seed. 

Put  the  catsup  in  bottles,  with  large  mouths ;  as  the  cucum- 
ber settles,  and  is  hard  to  get  out. — Mrs.  H,  T. 


Cucwmher  CcUsup, 

Chop  three  dozen  large  cucumbers  and  eight  white  onions, 
fine  as  possible,  or  grate  them.  Sprinkle  over  them  three- 
fourths  of  a  pint  of  salt,  one-half  teacup  ground  pepper ;  before 
seasoning,  drain  off  all  the  water  through  a  sieve ;  mix  well 
with  good  vinegar,  and  bottle. — Mrs,  P.  W. 

Cucvmber  Catsup. 

One  dozen  cucumbers,  four  large  onions,  four  tablespoonfuls 
salt,  four  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper,  one  quart  strong  vinegar. 
Orate  onions  and  cucumbers. — Mrs,  H,  D, 


298  WALNirr  oatsup — ^ro  make  oatsup  from  lravks. 

Walnut  Catsup. 

To  one  gallon  vinegar : 

Add  100  walnuts  pounded. 

2  tablespoonfiils  salt. 

A  handful  horseradish. 

1  cup  mustard-seed,  bruised. 

1  pint  eschalots,  cut  fine. 

i  pint  garlic. 

^  pound  allspice. 

^  pound  black  pepper. 

A  tablespoonful  ginger. 
Tf  you  like,  you  can  add  cloves,  mace,  sliced  ginger,  and  sliced 
nutmeg.  Put  all  these  in  a  jug,  cork  tightly,  shake  well,  and 
set  it  out  in  the  sun  for  five  or  six  days,  remembering  to  shake 
it  well  each  day.  Then  boil  it  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  when 
nearly  cool,  strain,  bottle,  and  seal  the  bottles. — Mrs.  A,  C. 

Walnut   Catsup. 

Take  forty  black  walnuts  that  you  can  stick  a  pin  through ; 
mash  and  put  them  in  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  boil  it  down  to  three 
quarts  and  strain  it.  Then  add  a  few  cloves  of  garlic  or  onion, 
with  any  kind  of  spice  you  like,  and  salt.  When  cool,  bottle 
it.     Have  good  corks. — Miss  E.  T. 

To  make  Catsup  of  Walnuts, 

Bruise  the  walnuts  (when  large  enough  to  pickle)  in  a  mor- 
tar ;  strain  off  the  liquor  and  let  it  stand  till  it  be  clear ;  to  every 
quart  thus  cleared  add  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  black 
pepper,  one  ounce  ginger  bruised  fine.  Boil  the  whole  about 
half  an  hour ;  then  add  one  pint  best  vinegar,  one  ounce  salt, 
eight  eschalots,  or  one  ounce  horseradish.  Let  it  stand  to  cool ; 
then  strain  it  again,  and  bottle  for  use. — Mrs.  M,  P. 

To  make   Wcdnut   Catifup  frojn  the  Leaves. 

Provide  a  jar  that  will  hold  about  three  gallons.  Mix  the 
following  ingredients  :  comuion  salt  oue  pouud,  oue-half  ounce 


BAT  SAUOB  -MUSHROOM  CATSUP.  299 

powdered  cloves,  four  ounces  powdei*ed  ginger,  one  handful  gar 
lie  sliced,  six  pods  bruised  red  pepper,  three  handfuls  horse- 
radish i*oot,  sliced.  Gather  the  young  leaves  from  the  walnut — 
cut  them  small.  Put  a  layer  at  the  bottom  of  the  jar;  then 
sprinkle  on  some  of  the  ingredients,  and  so  on  with  alternate 
layers,  until  the  jar  is  packed  full.  Let  the  whole  remain  in 
this  state  one  night.  Then  fill  with  boiling  vinegar,  tie  it  closely, 
and  let  it  set  in  the  sun  for  a  fortnight.  Then  press  out  the 
li  ^uor,  straiu  and  bottle. — Mrs.  E,   W, 

Bay  8(mce, 

Get  young  walnut  leaves  while  tender.  Make  a  mixture  of 
the  following  ingredients :  one  quart  salt,  one  handful  horse- 
radish, one-half  dozen  onions  chopped  up,  two  tcaspoonfuls  all- 
spice, one  tablespoonful  black  ground  pepper. 

Put  in  a  layer  of  the  leaves,  and  then  one  of  the  mixture,  so 
on  till  the  jar  is  nearly  filled ;  cover  with  good  cold  vinegar. 
Put  it  in  the  sun  for  a  fortnight,  then  bottle.  It  will  not  be 
good  for  use  until  it  is  six  months  old. 

This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  fish.  It  will  improve  it  to  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger. — Mrs,  E,  0.  Q. 

Bay  Sauce, 

One  pound  salt,  one-half  ounce  cloves,  four  ounces  ginger,  all 
powdered;  three  handfuls  garlic,  three  handfuls  horaeradish 
scraped  fine,  six  pods  of  red  pepper  cut  itp  fine.  Gather  leaves 
of  black  walnut  when  young,  out  them  up  fine  ;  put  a  layer  of 
leaves  in  the  bottom  of  a  jar,  then  one  of  ingredients  (mixed 
together),  until  the  jar  is  filled ;  tie  it  up  closely  and  set  it  in 
the  sun  for  two  weeks ;  then  bottle  for  use.  It  is  not  good  for 
six  months.  Some  think  two  or  three  largo  onions  an  addi- 
tion.— Mrs,  JET.  2>. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

Take  the  largest  mushrooms,  cut  off  the  roots,  put  them  in  a 
stone  jar,  with  salt ;  mash  them  and  cover  the  jar.     Let  them 


300  MU8HB001I   8AU0B — MUSHROOII  OATBUP. 

stand  two  days,  stirring  them  several  times  a  day ;  then  strain 
and  boil  the  liquor,  to  every  quart  of  which  put  one  teaspoonful 
whole  pepper,  cloves,  mustard-seed,  a  little  ginger ;  when  cold 
bottle  it,  leaving  room  in  each  bottle  for  one  teacupful  strong 
vinegar,  and  one  tablespoonful  brandy. 
Cork  and  seal. — Mrs,  G, 

Jfushroom  Sauce, 

After  peeling,  lay  them  on  the  oyster  broiler  and  sprinkle 
with  a  little  salt.  Have  ready  a  hot  dish  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  and  cream,  and  throw  the  mushrooms  into  this  as  they  are 
taken  from  the  broiler.     A  very  nice  sauce  for  steaks. — Jtfra. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

Break  one  peck  large  mushrooms  into  a  deep  earthen  pan. 
Strew  three-quarters  pound  salt  among  them,  and  set  them  one 
night  in  a  cool  oven,  with  a  fold  of  clotli  or  paper  over  them. 
Next  day  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  to  each  quart  add  one  ounce 
black  pepper,  one-quarter  ounce  allspice,  one-half  ounce  ginger, 
two  large  blades  mace. 

Boil  quickly  twenty  minutes.  When  perfectly  cold,  put  into 
bottles,  and  cork  well,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. — Mr,  J,  B.  N, 

Mushroom  Catsup, 

Pack  the  mushrooms  in  layers,  with  salt,  in  a  jar ;  let  them 
stand  three  hours,  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  return  them 
to  the  jar  and  let  them  remain  three  or  four  days,  stirring  them 
occasionally. 

For  every  quart  of  the  liquor  add,  one  ounce  of  pepper,  hall 
ounce  allspice ;  set  the  jar  in  the  kettle  of  water,  and  boil  four 
hours,  then  pour  the  liquor  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  boil  until 
it  is  reduced  one-half. 

Let  it  cool  and  bottle. — Mrs,  C,  €• 


H0B8BILLDI8H   BAUOS — ^PEPPER  BAUOB.  301 

HOBSEBADISH   SaUOB. 

Five  tablespoonfuls  scraped  or  grated  horseradish,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  half  teaspoonful  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  mixed  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar, 
four  tablespoonfuls  rich  sweet  cream.  Must  be  prepared  just 
before  using. — Jl/r«.  S.  T. 

IToraeradiah  Sauce. 

Just  before  dinner,  scrape  one  teacup  of  horseradish,  add  one 

teaspoonful  white  sugar,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  and  pour  over 

two  tablespoonfuls  good  cider  vinegar.     It  is  best  when  just 

made. 

Celery  Vinegar. 

Pound  a  gill  of  celery-seed,  put  in  a  bottle  and  fill  with  strong 

vinegar.     Shake  it  every  day  for  two  weeks,  then  strain  it,  and 

keep  it  for  use.     It  will  flavor  very  pleasantly  with  celery. — 

Mrs,  Dr.  JT, 

Celery  Vinegar, 

Take  two  gills  celery -seed,  pound  and  put  it  iix  u  celery  bot- 
tle, and  fill  it  with  sharp  vinegar.  Shake  it  every  day  for  two 
weeks  ;  then  strain  it,  and  keep  it  for  use.  It  will  impart  an 
agreeable  flavor  to  everything  in  which  celery  is  used.  Mint 
and  thyme  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  using  vinegai*  or 
brandy.  The  herbs  should  not  remain  in  the  liquid  more  than 
twenty-four  hours.  They  should  be  placed  in  a  jar — a  handful 
is  enough,  and  the  vinegar  or  brandy  poured  over  them ;  take 
out  the  herbs  next  day,  and  put  iu  fresh.  Do  this  for  three 
days;  then  strain,  cork,  and  seal. — Mrs.  H. 

Pepper  Sauce. 

2  dozen  peppers. 
Twice  this  quantity  of  cabbage. 
1  root  of  horseradish,  cut  \i\\  fine. 
1  tablespoonful  mustard-seed. 
1  dessertspoonful  cloves. 


SOS  PEPPBK  SAUCX^TABTAN  SAUOB. 

2  tablesponfuls  sugar. 

A  little  mace. 
Boil  the  spices  and  sugar  in  two  quai'ts  of  best  cider  vinegar, 
and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  cabbage  and  pepper. — Mrs,  Wl 
A.S, 

Pepper  Vineoab. 

One  dozen  pods  red  pepper,  fully  ripe.  Take  out  stems  and 
cut  them  in  two.  Add  three  pints  vinegar.  Boil  down  to  one 
quait;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  bottle  for  use. — Mre.  Dr.  J\ 

Bed  Pepper  Catsup. 
To  four  dozen  fine  ripe  bell-peppei-s  add  two  quarts  good 
vinegar,  one  quai't  water,  three  tablespoonfuls  grated  horserad- 
ish, five  onions  chopped  fine.  Boil  till  soft,  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Then  season  to  your  taste  with  salt,  spice,  black  and 
white  mustard  well  beaten ;  after  which  boil  ten  minutes.  Add 
celery -seed  if  liked,  and  a  pod  or  more  strong  pep{>er,  a  little 
sugar.  All  should  be  cut  up  and  the  seed  boiled  with  it.  Bot- 
tle and  cork  tightly. — Mrs.  G,  If. 

Caper  Sauce. 

Stir  in  melted  butter  two  large  tablespoonfuls  capers,  a  little 
vinegar.  Nasturtiums  pickled,  or  cucumbers  cut  very  fine  will 
be  good  substitutes  for  the  capers.  For  boiled  mutton. — Mrs. 
R. 

Caper  Sauce. 

To  one  cup  drawn  butter  add  three  tablespoonfuls  green 
pickled  capers.  If  prepared  for  boiled  mutton,  use  half  teacup- 
fiil  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  ;  add  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper.     Let  it  boil  up  once  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Taktan  Sauce. 

One  mustardspoon  of  mixed  mustard,  suit  and  cayenne  to  the 
taste,    the  latter  highly. 


MOBCAN's  TABTAN   SAUCB — TO   MIX  MUSTARD.  308 

Yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  sweet-oil  added  very  slowly,  until  the 
quantity  is  made  that  is  desii*ed  ;  thin  with  a  little  vinegar. 

Take  two  small  cucumber  pickles,  two  full  teaspoonfuls  capers, 
three  small  sprigs  pai*sley,  aud  one  small  shaleot  or  leek.  Chop 
all  fine,  and  stii*  into  the  sauce  about  an  hour  before  serving. 
If  very  thick,  add  a  tablespoonful  cold  water.  This  quantity 
will  serve  eight  peraons — is  good  with  trout,  veal  cutlets,  and 
oysters. — Mis8  E,  S. 

Moruan's  Tabtan  Sauce. 

Put  into  a  bowl  one  spoonful  of  dry  mustard,  two  spoonfuls 
salt)  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  yolk  of  one  raw  egg ;  mix  these 
together. 

Then  add,  drop  by  drop,  one  teacupful  sweet- oil ;  stir  until 
a  thick  mass.  Add  a  little  vinegar.  Chop  very  fine  two  small 
cucumber  pickles,  two  teaspoonfuls  capers,  two  sprigs  parsley, 
one  leek  or  small  onion,  and  a  little  celery ;  stir  all  into  the 
dressing.  This  is  delicious  with  boiled  fish,  either  hot  or  cold — 
also  cold  meats,  chicken  or  turkey. — Mrs,  IS, 

Aromatic  Mustard. 

4  tablespoonful s  ground  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  fiour. 

1  tablesi>oouful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
Mix  smoothly  with  boiling  vinegar,  add  a  little  salad  oil,  and 
let  it  stand  several  hours  before  using.     It  will  keep  any  length 
of  time. — Mr.  R,  H.  M, 

To  Mix  Mustard. 

Take  half  a  cup  ground  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  sugar, 
four  tablespooufuls  vinegar,  olive  oil,  or  water,  whichever  is 
preferred,  one  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  one  of  salt.—  Mrs.  P.  W. 


8M 


CAKE. 

Before  commenciiig  to  make  cake,  be  sure  that  you  have  all 
the  ingi'edients  in  the  house,  and  all  the  implements  at  hand, 
such  as  ti-ays,  bowls,  large  dishes,  large  strong  iron  spoons,  egg- 
beaters,  etc. 

Use  none  but  the  best  family  flour  in  making  cake.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  sift  it  before  weighing  or  measuring  it,  and  to  let 
it  air  and  sun  several  hours  before  using  it ;  as  this  makes  it 
much  lighter. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  set  aside  rancid  or  indifferent  butter 
for  cake-making.  The  butter  used  for  the  purpose  should  be 
good  and  fresh. 

Always  use  granulated  sugar  or  else  powdered  loaf  or  cut 
sugar;  as  pulverized  sugar  is  apt  to  have  plaster  of  Paris  or 
other  foreign  elements  in  it.  Never  use  bi*own  or  even  claiified 
sugar  in  cake-making,  unless  it  be  for  gingerbread. 

Do  not  attempt  to  make  cake  without  fresh  eggs.  Cream  of 
tartar,  soda  and  yeast  powders  are  poor  substitutes  for  these. 

A  fresh  egg  placed  in  water  will  sink  to  the  bottom. 

In  breaking  eggs,  do  not  break  them  over  the  vessels  in  which 
they  are  to  be  beaten.  Break  them,  one  by  one,  over  a  saucer, 
so  that  if  you  come  across  a  defective  one,  you  will  not  spoil 
the  rest  by  mixing  it  with  them ;  whereas,  if  it  is  a  good  one, 
it  will  be  easy  to  pour  the  white  from  the  saucer  into  the  bowl 
with  the  rest  of  the  whites,  and  to  add  the  yolk  which  you  re- 
tain in  the  egg-shell  to  the  other  yolks. 

The  Dover  egg-beater  saves  much  time  and  trouble  in  beat- 
ing eggs  and  will  beat  the  yolks  into  as  stiff  a  froth  as  the 
*rhites.  It  is  well  to  have  two  egg-beaters,  one  for  the  yolks 
and  the  other  for  the  whites.  Eggs  well  beaten  ought  to  be  a£ 
stifif  as  batter.  Cool  the  dishes  that  you  are  to  use  in  beating 
eggs.     In  summer,  keep  the  eggs  on  ice  before  using  tliem,  and 


WHITB  OAXB- — BUFJUUOR  WBITB  OAXB.  80ft 

always  try  to  make  the  oake  before  breakfast^  or  as  early  in  the 
morning  as  possible. 

Some  of  the  best  hotisewi\e8  think  it  advisable  to  oream  the 
batter  and  flour  together,  and  add  the  sugar  to  the  yolks  when 
these  are  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  as  it  produces  yellow  specks 
when  you  add  lihe  sugar  sooner.  The  whites  must  always  be 
added  last. 

In  making'fruit  cake,  prepare  the  fruit  the  day  before.  In 
winter  time,  this  may  be  easily  and  pleasantly  done  after  tea. 
It  requires  a  longer  time  to  bake  fruit  cake,  than  plain.  Every 
housekeeper  should  have  a  dose  cake-box  in  which  to  put  cake 
after  cooling  it  and  wrapping  it  in  a  thick  napkin. 

Wvrrm  Oakb. 

The  whites  of  30  eggs. 
1  pound  of  flour. 
1  pound  of  butter. 
1  pound  of  almonds. 
Use  a  little  more  flour,  if  the  almonds  are  omitted. — Mr§, 
Dr.  a. 

Whiie  Cak&. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

8  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk. 

The  whites  of  5  eggs. 

8  cups  of  flour. 

8  teaspoonfals  cream  of  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Jfn.  J}»  (7.  JTl 

Superior  Whitb  Cakb. 

1  pound  sugar. 
The  whites  of  10  eggs, 
f  pound  butter. 
I  pound  of  flour. 

26 


806  LSIQHTOH  CAKE — ^WHTTB  MOUNTAIN  OAKK. 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  rose-water,  imd  bake  in  a  m* 
oven.— Jfr*.  F.  C.  W. 

Lbiohton  Cakb. 

1  pint  butter. 

1  pint  ci*eam. 

2  pints  sugar. 
4  pints  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  essence  of  almonds. 

The  whites  of  12  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  mixed  in  floor. — Mn.  N* 

White  Mountain  Cake. 

4  cups  flour. 

1  cup  butter. 

3  cups  sugar,  creamed  with  the  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
1  small  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Whites  of  10  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans  ;  when  cold,  make  an  icing  of  whites 
of  three  eggs  and  one  pound  of  sugar.  Grate  cocoanut  over 
each  layer  of  icing. — Mrs,  P,  Mc  Q. 

White  Mountain  Cake. 

1  pound  sugar. 
^  pound  butter. 
f  pound  of  flour. 

1  large  teaspoonful  essence  of  bitter  almonds. 
Whites  of  10  eggs,  whipped  very  stiff. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  put  next  the  eggs,  then  the  flour, 
lastly  the  flavoring. — Mrs,  D.  C.  K, 

Wfiite  Mountain  Cake. 

Make   four  or  Ave   thicknesses  of  cake,  as  for  jelly  cake 
Grate  one  large  cocoanut.     The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  twc 


WHTTB  MOUNTAIN  OAKB — SNOW  MOUNTAIN  OAKHL      307 

lemjns  or  oranges.  The  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
with  one  pound  sugar.  To  this  add  the  milk  of  one  cocoanut, 
then  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange.  Lastly,  stir  in  the  cocoanut 
well,  and  put  between  the  cakes  as  you  would  jelly. — Mrs.  tT.  L, 

White  Mountain   (Jake, 

1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  sugar. 

f  pound  butter. 

Whites  of  16  eggs. 

Wine-glass  of  wine  or  brandy. 

Bake  in  flat  pans. 

Orate  two  cocoanuta.     Beat  the  whites  of  four  or  five  eggs 

to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  as  much  su-^ar  as  for  icing.     Stir  in  the 

cocoanut ;  spread  between  each  layer  of  the  cake,  as  jelly  cake. 

Ice  it  all,  or  only  on  top,  or  not  at  all,  as  you  please. — Mrs.  M, 

3fountain  Cake, 

The  white.s  of  8  eggs. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

^  cup  sweet  milk. 

]  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 

^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  well,  and  flavor  with  lemon.     Bake  in 
very  shallow  pans.     Ice  each  cake  separately  and  cover  with 
jelly;  then  form  a  large  cake,  and  ice  over. — 3Ir8,  Dr.  <6?. 

Snow  Mountain  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

3  cups  of  sugar,  creamed  together. 
1  cup  of  sweet  cream. 

1  teas[)oonful  cream  of  tiirtar  and  ^  teaspoon  of  soda,  spdnkied 
in  3^  cups  of  sifted  Hour. 
Whites  of  10  eggs. 


308  SHOW  OAKB — MOWTAnt  ABB  OAXB. 

Bake  in  tbin  cakes  as  for  jelly  cakes.  Joe  and  sprinkle 
each  layer  with  grated  oocoanut. 

Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  for  the  ioang,  and  grate  one 
oocoanut. — Jfr«.  C.  If.  A. 


Snow  Oakb. 

Whites  of  10  eggs. 
1^  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  floor. 

2  teaspoons  of  oream  of  tartar. 
Salt. 

Flavoring. 
Rub  the  flour,  cream  tartar,  sugar,  and  salt,  well  together. 
Add  the  eggs  beaten  light,  and  stir  only  sufficient  to  mix  very 
Mghtly.— Jfr«.  G.  P. 

White  MomvTAiK  Ash  Oakb. 

1  pound  white  sugar. 

1  teacup  of  butter. 

i  teacup  sweet  milk. 

Whites  of  10  eggs. 

^  small  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  oream  tartar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  almond. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  with  icing  and  oocoanut  between. 
Icing  far  cake, — One  pound  fine  white  sugai*,  and  whites  of 
three  eggs. — Jftss  E.  P, 

MouHTAiK  Ash  Oasbl 

The  whites  of  8  eggs. 

1  cup  of  butter* 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

^  cup  of  sweet  milk. 


BEIDE^B  OAXB.  809 

i  teaspoonftil  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  well,  and  flavor  with  lemon. 
Bake  in  shallow  pans ;  ice  each  cake  separately  and  cover 
with  jelly,  then  form  a  large  cake  and  ice  over. — Mrs.  P, 

Bridb^s  Oakb. 

1  pound  flonr. 

f  ponnds  sugar. 

\  pound  butter. 

Whites  of  14  eggs. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  and  stir  in  them  floor  and 
beaten  whites,  very  little  at  a  time ;  one  and  a  half  pounds 
fruit,  prepared  and  mixed  with  batter,  will  make  a  nice  fruit 
cake. — Mrs.  S.  D. 


Brides  Cahs. 

Whites  of  18  eggs. 

1^  pounds  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 

}  pound  butter. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together ;  whip  the  eggs  to  a  stifi 
froth,  then  add  gradually,  flour,  butter,  sugar. 

Season  with  lemon  or  brandy.  Bake  as  pound  cake.*^JIfr«. 
R.E. 

Bridfs  Oaks. 

H  pounds  flour. 
1^  pounds  sugar. 
1^  pounds  butter. 
Whites  of  20  eggs. 

^  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  ammonia  dissolved  in  ^  a  wineglasa 
of  brandy. 
Heavy  plain  icing.     1^  pound  mould. 
Insert  the  ring  after  the  cake  is  baked. —  SRss  & 


810  BBIDb's  cake — SILVER  OAKB. 

Brid^a  Cake. 

f  pound  flour. 
^  pound  butter. 
14  whites  of  eggs. 
1  pound  sugar — ^beat  in  the  whites. 
The  acid  of  1  green  lemon. 
Double  for  one  and  a  half  pound  cake. — Mrs.  t/*. 

Silver  Cake. 

Whites  of  8  eggs, 

i  pound  of  butter. 

^  pound  of  sugar. 

^  and  i  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  or  6  ounces  of 

flour. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar. — 3fr8.  W.  C.  JK. 

Silver   Cake. 

1  pound  powdered  sugar 

}  pound  flour. 

^  pound  butter. 

Whites  of  11  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  essence  of  bitter  almond. 
Cream  the  butter,  gradually  rub  in  the  flour,  then  the  sugar ; 
aild  the  flavoring ;    last  of  all,  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     Flavor  the  icing  with  vanilla  or  bitter 
almonds. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

Silver  Cctke, 

One  cup  sugar. 
jr  cup  butter. 

1^  cups  flour. 

^  cup  of  milk. 

^  teaspoon  of  cream  tai*tar,  and  half  as  much  soda 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

Beat  the  butter  and  eggs  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  milk  and 

flour  with  the  soda  and  cream  tartar ;  whisk  the  whiteis  of  the 


GOLD  OAKB — LADY  OAK£.  Sll 

eggs  to  a  froth)  and  stir  them  in  gently  at  the  last.  Flavor  with 

lemon. — Mrs,  C. 

Gk>LD  Cake. 

1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  sugar. 

f  pound  butter. 

Yolks  of  11  eggs. 

Grated  rind  of  an  orange. 

Juice  of  2  lemons. 

« 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Cream  the  butter  well,  rub  into  it  the  flour.  Beat  the  yolks 
welly  put  in  the  sugar,  and  beat  again ;  add  the  orange  rind  and 
lemon  juice. 

Mix  all  together,  and  beat  for  ten  minutes.  Last  of  all,  sift 
in  the  soda,  stirring  it  in  well.  Hequires  two  hours  to  bake  in 
one  pound  cake*mould.  Flavor  the  icing  with  lemon. — Mrs, 
&  T. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

^  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  ^  cup  of  milk. 
Mix  in  this  way ;  add  the  sugar  to  the  eggs,  then  the  butter 
well  creamed,  then  the  flour  and  milk  alternately.     Season  to 
taste.     Bake  thin,  and  spread  icing  between,  on  the  top  and 
aides,  sprinkling  grated  cocoanut  over  the  whole. — Jfn.  C. 

Lapt  Cakb. 

1  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  of  flour. 
6  ounces  of  butter. 
The  whites  of  14  eggs. 
Season  with  two  drops  oil  of  bitter  almond. — 3fw«  A 


819  LADY  OAXB— MBBBT  0HBI8TICA8  OAKK. 

Lady  Cake, 

The  whites  of  8  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth. 

8  caps  flour. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  butter,  creamed  with  the  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour. 
^  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  \  cup  sweet  milk. 

Beat  all  together,  and  bake  in  a  mould  or  small  pans.  SeaBon 

to  taste.     A  little  whisky  or  rum  improves  cake  of  all  kinds.^ 

ifff.  Dr.  C. 

Dbuoatb  Cakb. 

2  cups  white  sugar. 
2^  cups  com  starch. 

8  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 

^  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  milk. 
\  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  in  com  starch. 
Flavor  with  juice  of  one  lemon. — Mre,  H.  J2. 

Ddicaie  Cake. 

One  pound  pulverized  white  sugar,  seven  ounces  of  butter 
(stirred  to  a  cream). 
Whites  of  16  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
Stir  in  1  pound  of  sifted  flour. 
Flavor  to  the  taste.     Bake  immediately. — Mrs.  A,  JBi 

Mx£BT  Ohbibtmas  Oakx. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  com  starch. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  butter. 

•)■  cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans.     Between  each  layer  when  done^  on 


OORSr  8TA1I0H  OAXB — ^WHITB  FBUTT  OAKBL  31)1 

sides  and  top,  spread  icings  with  grated  oocoanut.     A  very 
pretty  dish. — Mr8.  MeG, 

OoBN  Staboh  Oaks. 

1  oup  butter. 

2  onps  sugar. 

1^  oups  com  ataroh. 

2  oups  flour. 

1  oup  milk,  perfeotly  sweet. 

^  teaspoonful  soda. 

^  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together.     Dissolve  the  soda  and 
com  starch  in  the  milk;  put  the  oream  tartar  in  the  flour. 
Mix  these  well,  and  then  add  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten, 
—Mr$.  & 

White  Fruit  Oakb. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  blanched  almonds. 

3  pounds  citron. 

1  cocoanut. 

Whites  of  16  eggs.— Jfr*.  2>r.  J. 

WhUe  IM^  Cake. 

1  pound  pulverized  sugar. 

f  pound  butter. 

Whites  of  12  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 

1  pound  flour. 

2  grated  cocoanuts. 

2  pounds  citron,  cut  in  small  pieoea. 
2  pounds  blanched  almonds,  cut  in  tliin  aliiOM. 
Bake  slowly. 

27 


814  WHITR  FBTTTT  OAKR — ^BLAOK  OAKK, 

White  IVuit  Cake. 

Whites  of  16  eggs,  beaten  well. 
8  ounces  butter. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  t<eacup  citron. 
1  cup  almonds. 
3  cups  grated  oocoanut. 
The  citron  and  almonds  to  be  cut  and  blanched,  of  course. 

White  Fruit  Cake  [superior^  tried  recipe^ 

1  pound  white  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 
^  pound  butter. 
Whites  of  12  eggs. 

2  pou]\ds  citron,  cut  in  thin,  long  strips. 

2  pounds  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  in  strips. 
1  large  cocoanut,  grated. 
Before  the  flour  is  sifted,  add  to  it  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
two  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar.  Cream  the  butter  as  you  do  for 
pound  cake,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  it  awhile ;  then  add  the 
whites  of  eggs,  and  flour ;  and  after  beating  the  batter  sufii- 
ciently,  add  about  one- third  of  the  fruit,  reserving  the  rest  to 
add  in  layers,  as  you  put  the  batter  in  the  cake-mould.  Bake 
slowly  and  carefully,  as  you  do  other  fruit  cake. — Mre,  W, 

Black  Cake. 

1^  pounds  butter. 

1^  pounds  sugar. 

1^  pounds  flour. 

1^  dozen  eggs. 

2  pounds  stoned  raisins. 

2  pounds  picked  and  washed  currants. 

1  pound  s1ic(^d  citron. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pulverized  cloves. 


BLACK  OAKX.  316 

2  tablespoonfuls  nutmeg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  powdered  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  wineglasses  of  brandy. — Mrs,  JJ, 

Black  Cake. 

H  pounds  flour. 
1^  pounds  butter. 
H  pounds  sugar. 

1  pound  citron. 

2  pounds  beaten  raisins 

2  pounds  sweet  raisins,  well  cut. 

2  pounds  currants. 
The  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons  and  two  oranges,  one  tea- 
B|ioonful  of  soda ;  after  the  beaten  fruit  is  well  beaten,  add  the 
cut  fruit.     The  citron  or  orange  peel  should  never  be  rubbed  ixx 

flour. — Mrs*  P. 

Black  Cake. 

Yolks  of  24  eggs. 
1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  sugar. 

Take  out  a  gill  of  the  sugar,  and  in  place  put  one  gill  of 
molasses,  one  pound  flour ;  out  of  it  take  six  tablespoonfuls, 
and  in  f  lace  put  five  spoonfuls  of  seconds,  and  one  of  corn  meal. 

4  pounds  seedless  raisins. 

•^  pound  citron. 

•^  pound  currants. 

•^  pound  almonds  and  palm  nuts. 

2  ounces  grated  cocoanut. 
2  ounces  flne  chocolate. 

1  tablespoonful  finely  ground  coflee. 

1  tablespoonful  alliipice,  mace,  and  clove& 

1  tablespoonful  vanilla. 


dim  FBUrr  OAKB  WITH  8FIGIBB — ^RUrT  OAXB. 

1  gill  blackberry  wine,  or  brandy. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  oream  tartar. 

Bake  the  mass  six  hours  very  moderately. — Mf%  J. 

Fbuit  Oaks  with  Spiobs. 

1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 

1  dozen  eggs. 

Mix  as  for  pound  cake. 

Add  1  pound  almonds. 

1  pound  raisins. 

\  pound  citron. 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  allspice. — il/r«.  A,  O. 

Fbuit  Cakb. 

2  pounds  best  stoned  raisins. 
2  pounds  currants. 
1  pound  citron. 
12  eggs. 

1  pound  fresh  butter. 
1  pound  loaf  sugar. 
1  pound  flour. 
Make  the  batter  as  you  would  for  nice  cake,  and  before  add- 
ing the  fruit,  stir  into  the  batter — 

4}  teaspoonfols  cream  of  tartar. 

1^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  large  tablespoonf  ol  of  ground  cinnamon. 

1  small  tablespoonful  of  white  ginger. 

4^  nutmegs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  heat  molasses. 


FBUrr  OAKB.  <I17 

Add  by  degrees  the  fruit  and  one-half  teacup  best  brai  dy ; 
bake  slowly  five  hours.  Ezoellent^  and  will  keep  good  six 
months. — Mrs.  P, 

Frua  Cake. 

18  eggs. 

1^  pounds  flour. 

1^  pounds  sugar. 

H  pounds  butter. 

2  pounds  raisins. 

2  pounds  currants,  washed  and  picked. 

\\  pounds  citron. 

2  nutmegs. 

3  pounds  almonds,  weighed  in  shelL 
2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace. 
1  small  teaspoonful  oloTes. 

1  small  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  ginger. 
2  wine-glasses  of  wine. 
1  wine-glass  of  bi*andy. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  in  a  cup  of  milk. 

Let  it  rise  about  three  hours,  then  bake  slowly,  and  let  i* 
stand  a  good  while  after  it  is  baked,  in  the  oyen. — Mrs.  C.  B. 

FnMt  Cake. 

2\  pounds  butter. 

2|>  pounds  flour. 

25  eggs. 

2}-  pounds  sugar. 

3  pounds  citron. 

6  pounds  currants. 

5  pounds  raisins. 

A  large  spoonful  cinnamon. 


818  imnr  oaxb — bioh  fruit  oaks. 

1  ■poonfdl  maoe. 
4  nutmegs. 
A  glass  wine. 
A  glass  brandy. 
Tlus  will  make  a  veiy  large  oake. — Mr9.  A,  P. 


JFruU  Cake. 

1^  pound  risen  dough* 

10  eggs. 

2  oups  butter. 

4  oups  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  cup  wine,  or  brandy. 

1  light  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 

•^  teaspoonful  cloves. 
Beat  these  ingredients  together  and  add  one  pound  of  atoned 
raisins,  one  pound  of  citron  dredged  in  flour. 

If  very  soft  for  oake,  add  a  little  flour. — Mrs,  J[  W, 

Rich  Fbuit  Oakx. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

1  pound  of  fresh  butter,  out  up  in  1  pound  powdered  sugar. 

12  eggs. 

3  pounds  of  bloom  raisins. 

1^  pound  of  Zante  currants. 

f  pound  of  sliced  citron. 

1  tablespoonful  each  of  maoe  and  cinnamon. 

2  nutmegs. 

1  large  wineglassful  Madeira  wine. 

1  large  wineglassful  French  brandy  mixed  with  the  spices. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together— eggs  sepai-ately.  Flour 
the  fruit  well,  and  add  the  flour  and  other  ingredients,  putting 
the  fruit  in  last.     Bake  in  a  straight  side  mould,  \b  it  turns 


FSUrr  OAJCB— OBANOB  OAKE.  319 

out  easier.  One  pound  of  blanohed  almonds  ivill  improve  this 
recii>e.  Bake  until  thoroughly  done,  then  ice  while  warm. — 
Jtfr«.  X. 

IHlU  Cake. 

1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  butter. 

2  pounds  raisins. 

2  pounds  currants. 

1  pound  citron. 

2  tablespoonfuk  of  maoe  and  cinnamon. 
2  nutmegs,  powdered. 

^  pint  of  brandy  and  wine,  mixed. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven.     Seedless  raisins  are  best  for  cake. — 
Mrs.  F,  C.  W. 

Pineapple,  or  Orakob  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter. 
3  cups  sugar. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
S^  cups  flour. 
^  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cre%m  of  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  four  or  five  deep.  Have  ready 
a  thick  icing,  which  put  on  the  cakes  as  thickly  as  will  stick ; 
spread  thickly  on  that  the  grated  pineapple,  or  orange,  the  icing 
to  be  flavored  with  the  juice  of  the  fruit  and  a  little  tartaric 
acid. — Mt9.  C.  C 

Orakqe  Cake. 

Bake  sponge  cake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  three  for  each  cake. 
Spread  an  icing  between  the  cakes,  made  of  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beaten  very  light^  and  one  and  one^uarter  pounds  powdered 
sugar. 

The  rind  and  juice  of  one  large,  or  two  small  oranges. 


890  OBAIffQB  OAXB — ^LKMON   CAKE. 

The  rind  and  juioe  of  one-half  lemon ;  the  other  half  to  be 
naed  for  the  cake. — Mrs,  P.  Mc  Q. 

Orange  Cake, 

8  eggs. 

1^  pounds  sugar. 
1^  pounds  flour, 
f  pound  butter. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  mix  in  the  sugar  and  creamed 
butter.  Pour  in  half  the  milk,  and  dissolve  the  cream  tartar 
and  soda  in  the  other  half  Add  the  sifted  flour  as  quickly  as 
possible  after  the  foaming  milk  is  poured  in.  Bake  in  jelly- 
cake  pans. 

Take  six  oranges,  grate  the  peel  and  squeeze  the  juice  with 
two  pounds  pulverized  sugar.  If  you  use  sweet  oranges,  add  the 
juice  of  two  lemons.  After  stirring  to  a  smooth  paste,  spread 
between  the  layers  of  the  cake.  Ice,  or  sprinkle  over  sugar  the 
last  layer  on  top  of  the  cake. — Mre,  fT,  C,  W. 

Orange  Cake. 

First  make  a  sponge  cake  with  twelve  eggs,  the  weight  of 
twelve  eggs  in  sugar,  and  weight  of  ten  in  flour.  Then  make 
an  icing  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  oranges ;  add  sufiicient  pow- 
dered sugar  to  make  the  proper  consistency  for  icing — then  put 
between  each  cake,  and  on  top  of  the  whole  cake. — Mira,  C  A 

Lemon  Cake. 

1  cupful  butter. 

3  cupfuls  white  sugar. 

5  eggs  beaten  separately. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together* 


LEMON  OAKB — '^  GSN.  BOBBBT  LEE  "  OAKB. 

1  teaspoouful  Boda. 
1  cup  milk. 

The  juioe  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
5  small  teacupfuls  flour. 
Bake  in  small  or  shallow  tins. — Mrs.  O. 

Zieman  Cake, 

One  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  rubbed  to 
a  cream. 

Stir  iu  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  a  cupful  of  milk ;  add  the  whites,  and  sift 
in  as  lightly  as  possible  four  cupfuls  of  flour.  Add  the  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  one  lemon. — Mrs.  Dr.  8. 

<<  BoBERT  E.  Lbe  "  Cake. 

Twelve  eggs,  their  full  weight  in  sugar,  a  half -weight  in  flour. 
Bake  it  in  pans  the  thickness  of  jelly  cakes.  Take  two  pounds 
of  nice  '*  A  "  sugar,  squeeze  into  it  the  juice  of  five  oranges  and 
three  lemons  together  with  the  pulp ;  stir  it  in  the  sugar  until 
perfectly  smooth  ;  then  spread  it  on  the  cakes,  as  you  would  do 
jelly,  putting  one  above  another  till  the  whole  of  the  sugar  is 
used  up.     Spread  a  layer  of  it  on  top  and  on  sides. — Mrs.  O. 

''Gen.  Robert  Lee"  Cake. 

10  eggs. 

1  pound  sugar. 

•^  pound  flour. 

Bind  of  1  lemon,  and  juice  of  ^  lemon. 
Make  exactly  like  sponge  cake,  and  bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 
Then  take  the  whites  of  two  oggs  beat  to  a  froth,  and  add  one 
pound  sugar,  the  gi-ated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange,  or  juice 
of  half  a  lemon.  Spread  it  on  the  cakes  before  they  are  per- 
fectly cold,  and  place  one  layer  on  another.  This  quantity 
makes  two  cake.s. — Mrs.  L  IT, 


322         OOOOANUT  OAKS— MOUNTAIN  OOOOAKUT  OAJOE. 

CoGOANUT  Oaks. 

1  teacup  fresh  butter. 
3  teacups  white  sugar. 
3^  teacups  flour. 
Whites  of  ten  eggs. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  light  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  light  teaspooufuls  cream  of  tartar. 
A  little  essence  of  lemon. 

Bake  in  cakes  an  inch  thick  and  spread  with  icing,  having 
grated  cocoanut  stirred  in ;  pile  one  on  another,  allowing  a  little 
time  for  drying  off.  In  making  the  icing,  reserve  some  plain 
for  the  outside  of  cake.  Finish  off  by  sprinkling  on  the  pre- 
pared cocoanut. — Jftas  P. 

CocoantU  Cake. 

Beat  to  a  fine  cream  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  and 
half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Add  gradually  eight  eggs  well  beaten^ 
then  mixed,  one  tablespoonful  essence  of  lemon,  one  small  nut- 
meg, grated ;  mix  all  well  together,  then  stir  in  lightly  half  a 
pound  flour  in  turn  with  half  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut. 
Pour  the  mixture  in  a  well-buttered  pan,  and  bake  quickly. — 
Mrs,  a  V.  Mc  (?. 

MouKTAiK  Cocoanut  Cakb. 

Oream  together  one  pound  sugar,  half  a  pound  butter.  Beat 
eight  eggs  lightly  without  separating.  Stir  them  gradually 
into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  in  one  pound  of  flour,  beat  all 
light,  then  put  in  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  half 
a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tar- 
tar dissolved  in  the  same  quantity  of  milk.  Season  with  lemon 
or  vanilla.  For  the  icing,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and 
one  pound  sugar;  boil  until  it  glistens.  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  into  the  boiling  icing,  then  add 


angel's  bbbad-— olat  case.  8S8 

half  a  pound  of  grated  ooooannt     Spread  the  icmg  between  the 
cakes  and  on  the  top. — Mi§8  8- 

Aitoel'b  Bread. 
A  vomety  of  Coooomut  Cake. 

1  <mp  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 
Whites  of  eight  eggs. 
\  cup  sweet  milk. 

^  teaspoonful  soda,  1  teaspoonful  oream  of  tartar,  stirred  in 
the  milk. 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

1  grated  cocoanut. 

Spread  top  and  bottom  of  cake  with  icing,  then  put  on  the 
coooanut,  and  so  on  till  your  cake  is  large  as  you  wish.  Ice 
the  whole  cake,  and  sprinkle  on  cocoanut.  Make  the  icing, 
three  whites  to  one  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  with  juice  of 
one  lemon. — Mrs,  J).  JR. 

Clay  Oakb. 

3  cups  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 

4  cups  flour. 

1  oup  sweet  milk. 

6  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  in  the  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  it  in  layers. 
Hiingfar  the  Cake. — ^Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  into  a  froth, 
and  add  nine  teaspoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar  to  each  egg, 
flavoring  it  with  vanilla.  Then  grate  up  two  large  cocoanuts, 
and  after  idng  each  layer,  sprinkle  grated  cocoanut  on  it.  Put 
the  layers  on  each  other  as  in  making  jelly  cake. — Mrs,  1,  W. 


824  OOOOAHUT  0AK£8. 

CoeocmfiU  Cake, 

2  onpa  powdered  sugar. 
^  cup  butter. 

3eggB. 

1  cup  milk. 

3  oupe  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  oream  of  tai-tar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

FilUng :  one  grated  cocoanut ;  to  half-pound  of  this  add  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  firoth,  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar ;  lay  this  between  the  layers  of  the  cake ;  mix  with  the 
other  half  of  the  cocoanut  four  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar, 
and  strew  thickly  on  top  of  the  cake. — Mr9,  2>.  C.  K. 

One^  7\po,  Three^  Fowr  Cocoanut  Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 
Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

^  teaspoonful  soda. 

\  small  cocoanut,  stirred  in  at  the  last. — Mrs,  D.  C.  K„ 

CocoamU  Cake. 

1  teacup  of  butter. 

3  teacups  of  sugar. 

3^  teacups  of  flour. 

Whites  of  10  eggs. 

^  cup  sweet  milk,  with  one  teaspoon  not  quite  full  of  soda, 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
Essence  of  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light.  Cream  the  butter,  then  mix  the 
ingredients  gradually.  Sift  the  cream  tartar  with  the  flour,  and 
dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  add  to  the  cake  lastb  Bake 
in  pans;  an  inch  thick  when  baked.     Mix  prepared  cocoanut 


OHOOOLATB  OAKIB.  326 

with  the  icing ;  ice  the  top  of  the  first  cake  with  the  coooanut 

icing,  dry  it  slightly ;  lay  another  cake  on  top,  and  ice  again, 

and  continue  until  the  last  cake  is  added,  then  ice  all  over. 

When  the  last  coat  of  icing  is  put  on,  sprinkle  the  prepared 

cocoannt  all  over  the  cake,  to  give  it  a  frosted  appearance. — 

Mrs.  M.  &  C. 

Ohooolatb  Cakb. 

1^  pounds  grated  ohocolato. 

12  eggs. 

If  pounds  brown  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

A  few  coriander-seed. 
Break  the  eggs  in  the  sugar  and  beat  them,  adding  the  chooo- 
lato  by  degrees,  until  well  incorporated ;  then  add  the  spioesi 
all  of  which  must  be  well  powdered.     Grease  some  small  tins 
with  lard,  and  bake  quickly.— »Jfr«.  T, 

Chocolate  Cake. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 
1  cupful  butter. 

3  cupfuls  flour. 

f  cupful  sour  cream  or  milk. 
3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  soda. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together ;  break  the  eggs  into  it 
one  at  a  time ;  then  add  the  flour,  then  the  sour  cream  with  tlie 
soda.     Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

Filling :  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three- 
quarters  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  boil  half-done. — Mrs,  F. 

Chocolate   Cake. 

3  cupfuls  sifted  flour. 
1^  cupfuls  sugar. 


886  CUOOOLATB  OAXB. 

1  cupful  gweet  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfub  oream  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  essence  lemon. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  milk 

(in  which  the  soda  should  be  dissolved),  next  the  eggs  well 

beaten,  and  lastly  the  essence.     Mix  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  and 

afterwards  the  third  cupful  of  flour  into  which  the  cream  tartar 

has  been  stirred.      Bake  in  square,  flat  pans.      Grate  three 

ounces  of  chocolate,  add  four  tablespoonfiils  of  milk;  warm 

slowly,  and  add  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar.   Boil  three 

minutes,  and  pour  over  top  of  the  cake.     If  you  choose,  you  can 

slice  open  the  cake,  and  put  inside  of  it  a  custard  of  one  pint  of 

milk,  warmed,  and  two  eggs  added,  with  sugar  and  flour  to  your 

taste. — Mrs,  H. 

ChocokUe  Oake, 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter. 

Tolks  of  5  eggs  and  whites  of  2, 

1  cupful  milk. 

3^  cupfuls  flour. 

^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 
Bake  in  jelly -cake  tins. 

Filling :  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Beat  well  together ;  spread  on  top  and  between  layers 
of  the  cake. — Mrs. 


Chocolate  Cake^ 

Cream  together  one  pound  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pounds  but- 
ter. Beat  eight  eggs  light  without  separating ;  stir  them  grad- 
ually into  the  sugar  and  butter.     Sift  in  one  pound  of  flour  : 


CHOCOLATE  JELLY  CAKE — OITBON  OAKS.  327 

beat  all  light.  Then  put  in  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  half-teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  even  teaspoon- 
fals  cream  tartar  dissolved  in  the  same  quantity  of  milk.  Sea- 
son with  lemon  or  vanilla.     Bake  in  jelly  pans. 

Icing  for  the  same  :  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  one  pound 
of  sugar ;  boil  till  it  glistens. 

Bea^  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  them  into 
the  boiling  icing,  then  add  one-quarter  pound  grated  chocolate. 

Spread  the  icing  between  the  cakes  and  over  the  top. — 
MimS. 

Chocolate  Jelly  Cake. 

Make  a  sponge  cake  according  to  old  family  recipe,  baku 
either  in  jelly  tins  or  moulds ;  then  slice  the  cake  for  the  fol- 
lowing preparation :  one  teacupful  of  milk,  half  a  cake  Baker^s 
chocolate,  sci'aped  or  grated,  one  egg  beaten  with  sugar  enough 
to  make  it  sweet ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Let  it  boil  (stirring  all 
the  time)  till  quite  thick.  Place  it  evenly  and  thickly  between 
the  slices  of  cake.  Instead  of  the  sponge  cake,  some  use  the 
ordinary  jelly -cake  recipe. — Mrs.  S, 


Citron  Cake. 

12  ounces  flour. 
12  ounces  butter. 
10  eggs. 
1  pound  sugar. 

1  ]>ound  citron,  cut  in  thin  slices, 
like  a  poimd  cake. — Mrs,  C,  L.  T. 

Citron  Cake, 

4  lai'ge  cofieecups  sifted  flour. 

2-^  cupfuls  powdered  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter. 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  frotL 

Add  two  tablespoonfuls  rose  water. 


328  CITRON  OAKS — ^ALMOND  OAKB. 

Butter  a  oake  pan,  and  put  alternate  lajecs  of  batter  and  oii- 
ron  sliced  in  long,  thin  slices. — Jlfr§,  Mc  Q, 

Citron  GaJcB. 

1  pound  floor. 

1  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  butter. 
12  eggs. 

2  pounds  citron. 

2  pounds  grated  oocoanut. 

2  pounds  almonds. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. — Mrs,  M.  E. 

Citron  Caihs. 

1  pound  of  flour. 
\  pound  of  sugar. 
f  pound  of  butter. 
10  or  12  eggs. 

2  pounds  of  citron. 
1  cocoanuty  grated. 

Frcdt  to  be  put  in  last. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Almond  Cakb. 

1^  pounds  of  sugar. 

H  pounds  of  butter. 

1  pound  of  flour. 

12  eggs. 

1  pound  almonds. — Mrs.  S. 

Almond  Cake. 

12  eggs. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  butter. 


DABK  FIG  OAJUfi    -FOUND  GAXB.  829 

1  pound  almonds  (blanched). 

1  pound  citron. 
Blanch  the  almonds,  and  slice  the  citron  thin. 
One  wine-glass  of  brandy. 
Mix  like  pound  cske.-^Mrs.  S.  T. 

Dark  Fig  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  butter. 

One  cup  of  cold  water,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  it. 

3  cups  of  raiidnsy  chopped  fine. 
Cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 

4  eggs. 

1  pound  of  figs. 

Use  the  figs  whole,  covering  them  well   with  the  cake  to 

prevent  burning.     Bake  in  layers,  frosting  between  each  layer. 

Make  as  stifl:*  as  pound  cake.      Cut  with  a  very  sharp  knife, 

to  prevent  crumbling.     This  recipe  makes  two  loaves. — Mr$, 

A.  T. 

Currant  Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 
5  eggs. 

4  cups  flour. 
^  a  nutmeg. 

5  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

One  pound  currants  washed,  dried,  and  rolled  in  the  flour. — 

Mrs.  W.  L.  R. 

Pound  Cakb. 

1  pound  butter. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 
16  eggs,  yolks  of  4. 

28 


8S0  POUIO)  OAKS. 

After  the  butter  ia  creamed,  work  the  sugyur  and  hatter  well 
before  mixing. — Mr9,  Jf.  8.  (7. 

Pound  Cake, 

1  pound  Btigar. 

1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  of  flour. 

12  eggs. 
Cream  the  butter;  rub  into  it  graduallj  the  sifted  and  dried 
flour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  very  light,  then  add  the 
powdered  sugar,  beat  again,  add  a  wine-glass  of  brandy  or 
one  of  good  whiskey  flavored  with  nutmeg,  or  the  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon ;  mix  all  together.  Stir  in  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  just  before  baking.  It  will  take  two 
hours  to  bake. — Mrs,  8.  T. 

Pawnd  Cake. 

1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

f  pound  of  butter. 

10  eggs. 
Cream  the  butter  well  with  flour ;  beat  the  yolks  well,  and  add, 
by  degrees,  the  butter  and  flour,  and  then  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stifl*  froth.  Season  with  mace  and  one  glass  of  wine.  Bake  in 
cups  well  greased.  For  fruit  cake  add  to  above,  two  pounds 
of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one-half  a  pound  of  citron, 
stirred  in  by  degrees.  Add  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  the  sea- 
soning. One  pound  of  butter,  and  one  dozen  eggs  for  fruit 
cake. — Mrs,  A.  C 

Pound  Cake, 

Beat  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  The  yolks 
beat  until  they  look  light  and  white ;  then  beat  in  one  pound 
of  sugar ;  next  add  the  whites ;  cream  the  light  pound  of  butter 
until  it  looks  frothy ;  then  sift  in  by  degrees  one  pound  of  flour 
and  cream  them  together,  and  add  the  other  mixture.     Put  a 


YBST  DSUOATB  TOVJW  OASJS — HIJTVER  SFONGB  OAKE.    331 

little  powdered  maoe,  if  you  like,  a  wine-glass  of  wine,  and  the 
same  of  brandy. — Mrs.  Wi 

Vbry  Delicate  Pound  Cake. 

1^  %g">  ^  yolks. 

1  pound  of  flour. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

f  pound  of  butter. — Mrt,  S,  T, 

Superior  Pound  Cake. 
1  pound  of  white  sugar. 
}  pound  of  butter. 
1  pound  of  flour. 
Whites  of  12  eggs,  yolks  of  9. 
Cream  the  butter ;  add  part  of  the  sugar  and  yolks,  and  beai 
well ;  then  gradually  add  the  whiten,  and  flour  and  balance  of 
yolks.     Beat  well,  flavor  with  extract  of  lemon,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  F.  G.  TT. 

Pound  Gake, 
1  pound  flour. 

I  pound  sugar. 
f  pound  butter. 

II  eggs. 

Sift  and  dry  the  flour,  sift  the  sugar ;  wash  all  the  salt  out  oi 
the  butter,  and  squeeze  all  the  water  out  of  it.  Cream  the  but- 
ter with  half  the  flour  or  more ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  sep- 
arately, beating  rather  more  than  half  of  fche  sugar  with  the 
yolks;  then  rub  the  remaining  sugar  and  flour  up  together. 
Mix  all  these  ingredients,  part  at  a  time,  first  one,  then  another. 
Beat  well,  and  season  with  French  brandy  and  lemon,  or  wine 
and  nutmeg,  to  your  taste. — Mrs,  M. 

Butter  Sponge  Cake. 

14  eggs. 

Weight  of  1 4  in  sugar. 


832  BUTTSB  8P0NGB  OASIfr— 6PONOB  OAXX. 

Weight  of  8  in  butter. 
Weight  of  6  in  flour. 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons. 
All  the  ingredients  added  to  the  beaten  yolks,  and  the  frothed 
whites  stirred  in  last. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Butter  Sponge   Cake. 

14  eggs. 

Their  weight  in  sugar. 
8  in  flour. 
6  in  butter. 

The  rind  of  1,  and  juice  of  2  lemons. 
Bake  quickly. — Mm,  8. 

Sponob  Cake. 

The  weight  of  1  dozen  eggs  in  sugar. 
The  weight  of  4  eggs  in  flour. 
The  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Beat  well,  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs,  Mc  G. 

Confederate  Sponge  Cake. 

1  cupful  white  sugar. 

2  cupfuls  sifted  flour. 
^  cupful  cold  water. 

3  eggs. 

One  teaspoonful  yeast  powder  in  the  flour;  flavor  to  the 
taste.  Mix  yolks  and  sugar,  then  add  the  water  after  the 
whites  (beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  first),  then  the  flour. — Miss  S, 

Sponge  Cake. 

14  eggs. 

Weight  of  10  in  powdered  sugar. 
Weight  of  6  in  flour. 
Grated  lind  and  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  very  light,  then  add  the  sugar 


SPONGE   OAKB — KXTRA   SPONGE   CAKE.  833 

and  beat  again.  Put  in  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
then  the  whites  of  fourteen  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat 
all  together  for  fifteen  minutes  without  cessation,  stirring  in  the 
flour  last,  barely  mixing ;  do  not  beat  it.  Pour  into  buttered 
moulds  or  shapes  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  A  large  cake  will 
require  fully  an  hour  for  baking.  If  it  bakes  too  fast  on  top, 
cover  with  bettered  paper. — Mrs,  8.  T, 

Sponge  Cake.     {Nevei' fcais.) 

12  eggs. 

Their  weight  in  sugar. 

The  weight  of  7  in  flour. 

Juice  of  1  lemon. 

1  tablespoonful  good  vinegar. 

Beat  the  whites,  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar ;  add  the  whites, 
beat  well ;  add  the  flour,  and  after  adding  it,  do  not  beat  it 
longer  than  is  required  to  stir  it  in ;  then  add  the  lemou  and 
vinegar,  just  as  you  put  it  in  the  tins  or  moulds. 

When  the  cake  is  hot,  lemon  sauce  is  nice  to  eat  with  it. — 
Mrs,  II, 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. 

4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
2  teaciipfuls  sugar. 

1  cupful   sweet  cream. 

2  heaping  cupfuls  flour. 
1  tea.spoonful  soda. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  cream  ot  tartar,  mixed  in  the  flour  before 
it  is  sifted.  Add  whites  of  eggs  last  thing  before  tlie  flour,  then 
stir  that  in  gently,  without   beating.     Very  nice. — JHfrs.    If\ 

c.  w. 

Extra  Sponge  Cake. 

Whites  of  14  eggs. 
Yolks  of  only  7. 
One  pound  best  white  sugar  stirred  in  the  yolks  after  the} 


884       8FOKOB  OAKB  BOLL — JXLLY  FOB  OAKB. 

are  well  beaten.  Add  the  whites,  and  lastly  stir  in  very  lightly 
half  a  |)oand  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  very  little  after  putting  in 
the  flour.     Bake  quickly. — Mrs,  D.  C.  K. 

Spongb  Oajlb  Roll. 

6  eggs. 

1^  teacups  flour. 

1  teacup  powdered  sugar. 

Rind  and  juii*e  of  a  lemon. 
Beat  the  eggs  separately  and  very  light.  Do  not  beat  the 
batter  much  after  adding  the  flour,  which  must  be  done  last  of 
all.  Get  a  square  baking-pan,  butter  it,  and  pour  one-half  the 
batter  in,  reserving  the  rest  for  a  second  layer.  Have  ready  a 
nice  damp  towel,  lay  the  cake  on  it  when  taken  out  of  the  pan ; 
spread  over  the  cake,  jam  or  currant  jelly ;  roll  it  up  whilst 
damp,  and  when  firmly  set  put  it  in  a  place  to  dry.  It  is  good 
eaten  with  sauce,  when  for  a  dinner  dish,  or  it  can  be  out  in 
slices  and  eaten  as  small  cakes. — Mrt,  M,  (7. 

Sponge  Roll. 

4  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

4  cupfuls  of  flour. 

1  dozen  eggs. 
Mix  as  for  sponge  cake.     Bake  in  thin  sheets  and  spread  on 
stewed  apples,  or  any  kind  of  fruit,  a  little  sweetened ;  roll  the 
sheets  with  the  top  on  the  outside.     Serve  with  rich  wine  saaoe. 
—Mr8.  CoL  S. 

Jblly  for  Cakb. 

1  lemon  bruised  and  strained. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
1  large  apple. 

Boat  the  egg  and  mash  the  apple  fine,  grate  the  lemon  peel, 
then  mix  all  together ;  put  into  a  can  or  cup  and  set  into  a  pot 


AVOTHBB  Timire  fob  OAXB — JSLLT   OAKB.  885 

of  water.     Let  boil  until  it  is  oooked^aiid  use  as  you  would  for 
common  jelly  cake. — Mr9.  Wi  McF, 

Another  Filling  for  Cakb. 

Diasolye  one-half  cake  of  chocolate  in  one  teacup  of  cream  or 
milk,  and  let  it  cool  slowly ;  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  stir  in 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  mixed  with  one  pound  of 
sugv.  Let  it  cooly  stirring  all  the  time  till  you  find  tnat  it 
will  harden  when  cooL 

Spread  between  the  cakes  while  it  is  still  soft.— JfrN.  2Z1 

Jrlly  Cakb. 

Beat  8  eggs  very  light. 
Cream  \  pound  butter. 
f  pound  flour. 
\  pound  sugv  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  tartaric  acid. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Stir  these  in  when  ready  to  bake.     Bake  in  thin  pans,  and 
put  on  jelly  whUe  warm.— ilfr«.  J.  L. 

LxMON  Jelly  Cake. 

Bake  sponge-cake  batter  (by  recipe  given)  in  jelly-cake  pans. 
Beat  with  three  eggs,  two  cupfuls  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
melted,  and  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.  Stir  over  a 
slow  fire  until  it  boik,  then  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake. 
Ice  with  lemon  icings  or  sift  over  powdered  sugar. — Mt%,  8.  T. 

JvLLY  Cake. 

8  e^^ 

The  weight  of  4  in  flour. 

The  weight  of  6  in  sugar. 

To  be  baked  in  flat  tins. 

For  the  jelly :  one>quarter  pound  butter,  one-half  pound 
sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 


886  UCMOK  JXIXT  OACB — ^BOLLED  JBLLT  0AX3L 

To  be  put  in  a  saucepan  and  allowed  to  come  to  a  boiL  Then 
the  three  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  must  be  stirred  in  and 
the  saucepan  returned  to  the  fire  until  it  boils  up.  Spread 
between  layers  of  cake. — Jfrs.  E,  C,  Q. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 

I  Kike  as  for  the  orange  cake.  For  the  jelly:  take  the  juice 
and  rind  of  three  lemons,  one  pound  sugar,  one-quarter  pound 
butter,  six  eggs ;  beat  together ;  scald  as  you  do  custard.  When 
cool,  it  must  be  thick-spread  between  the  cakes ;  ice  the  top. — 
Mrs.  C.  C. 

BoLLED  Jelly  Cake. 

3  eggs. 

1  teacup  of  sugar. 

1  teacup  of  flour. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  till  light,  then  add  the  sugar ;  con- 
tinue beating  for  some  time,  then  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth ;  next  put  in  the  flour,  a  little  at  a  time.  Bake  in  a 
long  pan,  well  greased ;  when  done  turn  out  on  bread-board, 
then  cover  the  top  with  jelly  and  roll  while  warm,  and  slice  as 
needed. — Mrs.  A,  S. 

Holled  JeUy   Cake. 

I  cupful  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1^  cupful  of  flour. 

J-  cupful  of  milk. 

1  egg. 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  the  flour.  Bake 
in  a  lat'ge  sheet,  and  when  done,  spread  on  the  jelly  and  cut  the 
sheets  in  strips  three  or  four  inches  wide  and  roll  up.  If 
instead  of  jelly  a  sauce  is  made  and  spread  between  the  layers 
of  cake,  it  may  be  eaten  as  a  cream-pie  and  furnish  a  very  nice 
dessert.  For  the  sauce,  beat  together  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
of  corn-starch,  or  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  two  tablespoonfuUi 


FILLINO  FOB  JBLLT  CAKB — MARBLK  OAKB.  337 

of  sugar,  stir  into  a  half-pint  of  milk  and  boil  until  it  forms 
a  good  custard.  Bemove  from  tbe  fire  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — 
Mrs.  M. 

Filling  for  Jelly  Cake. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth. 
2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
Juice  and  grated  peel  of  2  oranges. 
Put  this  between  the  layers,  and  on  top  the  cakes. — Mrs. 
C.  G. 

Oranges  cut  fine,  and  sweetened  and  mixed  with  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  also  chocolate,  is  used  for  filling  jelly  cake.  Sponge  cake 
is  better  than  the  soda  recipe. — Mrs.  C.  C. 

Marble  Cake. 

Weigh  and  make  a  pound  cake ;  add  a  spoonful  of  yeast, 
take  one-third  part  of  the  batter  and  add  to  it  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mace,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  finely  ground. 

Put  in  your  pan,  first  a  layer  of  the  plain  batter,  then  a  layer 
of  the  spiced,  finishing  with  the  plain.  The  batter  will  make 
three  layers  of  plain  and  two  of  spiced.  It  bakes  in  beautiful 
layers. — Mrs.  C.  L.  T, 

Marble  or  Spiced  Cake. 

Make  up  a  pound  cake  and  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast- 
powder.  Take  one-third  part  of  the  batter  and  add  to  it  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon  and  mace  each,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves  and  allspice  each,  one  nutmeg  finely  powdered.  Then 
grease  a  pan  and  put  in  fii'st  a  layer  of  the  plain  batter,  theiL- 
the  spiced,  alternately,  till  you  have  it  full,  finishing  with  the 
plain.     Bake  as  a  pound  cake. — Mrs.  G.  V.  McQ. 

Marble  Cake.     Light  Part. 

3  cupfuls  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter. 
29 


898  ifAimr.ie  nAiga. 

1  capful  sour  cream* 
6  cupfuls  flour. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 

1  teaspoonf ul  soda. 

Dark  Part 

2  cupfuls  brown  sugar. 
1  cupful  molasses. 

1  cupful  sour  cream. 
1  cupful  butter. 
5  cupfuls  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Yolks  of  8  eggs. 
1  whole  egg. 
1  wine-glassful  wine. 
Mixed  spices. 
Put  alternately  layers  of  each  kind  in  two-pound  mould*. 

Marble  Cake.     Light  Pari, 

1  cupful  white  sugar. 
^  cupful  butter. 
^  cupful  buttermilk. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
4-  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  cupfuls  flour. 

Dark  Part. 
^  cupful  brown  sugar. 
i  cupful  butter. 
^  cupful  molasses. 
^  cupful  milk. 
^  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon* 
^  teaspoonful  allspice. 

2  cupfuls  flour. 


ICABBUS  OB  WlflMABflK  OAXK.  889 

^  toaspoonful  soda, 
1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
Yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Piii  in  the  mould,  alternately,  tablespoonfuls  of  ligLc  and  dark 
batter.— ilfrt.  D.  C.  K. 

MaRBLB  OB  BlSXABOK  CaKE. 

3  cnpfuls  white  sugar. 
1  cupful  butter. 

1  cupful  sour  cream,  or  buttermilk 
6  cupfuls  flour. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 
1  small  spoonful  soda. 
This  is  for  the  white  batter. 

Da/rk  BaUar. 

2  cupfuls  coffee  sugar. 

1  cupful  molasses. 

1  cupful  sour  cream. 

1  cupful  butter. 

6  cupfuls  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,  and  a  whole  one. 

1  wine-glassful  mixed  spices,  finely  powdered. 
Put  in  the  pan,  in  alternate  layers  of  light  and  dark  batter. 
Bake  quickly,  like  sponge  cake.     Ice  and  ornament  with  choca 
late  drops.     This  fills  a  two-pound  mould. 

Ross  OR  Clouded  Cake. 
12  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  3. 
1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  sugar. 
f  pound  butter. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  powdered  alum. 
1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 


840  SnCB  OAKB — CREAM  CAXB. 

2  small  teaspCM>nful8  cochineal,  dissolyed  in  ^  cupful  boiling 
water. 

Having  dissolved  the  alum,  soda,  and  cream  tartar,  mix  with 
the  cochineal.  Stir  these  ingredients  in  nearly  one-third  of  the 
hatter.  Pour  into  the  cake  mould  a  layer  of  white  batter,  and 
a  layer  of  red  batter,  alternately,  beginning  and  ending  with 
white ;  three  layers  of  white  and  two  of  red.  This  ia  an  orna- 
mental cake  to  cut  for  baskets. 

Spice  Cake. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Mix  2^  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder  in  2^  cupfuls  ilour. 

1  cupful  brown  sugar. 

^  cupful  syrup. 

^  cupful  butter,  must  be  melted  after  being  measured. 

Stir  with  the  sugar  2^  teaspoonfuls  powdered  doves. 

1  leaspoonful  powdered  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  allspice. 
The  spices  must  be  put  in  the  flour,  the  syrup  added  after 
the  sugar  and  butter  are  stirred  together^  then  the  eggs   and 
milk,  and  lastly  the  flour.     Mix  the  above  alternately,  in  your 
pans,  after  having  them  buttered. — Mrs,  Wl 

Cream  Cake. 

2  cupfuls  of  sxigar. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour. 
J  cupful  of  butter. 
3  eggs. 

1  cupful  of  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  melt  the  butter  and  add  it  to 
the  eggs.  Add  the  sugar  and  cream  tartar  to  the  flour.  Pour 
it  all  together  in  shallow  pans  that  have  been  well  greased 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 


OBBAH  OAKS.-"OBEAM  FOB  8AMB.  341 

While  baking  the  above,  get  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  butter  one-half  size  of  an  egg.  II 
you  use  cream  instead  of  milk,  you  can  omit  butter.  Break 
two  eggs  into  the  sugar,  beat  awhile,  then  add  flour  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Have  the  milk  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  bolls, 
stir  the  mixture  in  it,  afler  thinning  it  with  some  of  the  milk 
until  it  is  like  paste ;  cook  until  it  is  like  stiff  starch.  Season 
freely  with  vanilla  when  cold,  and  spread  it  between  the  cakes 
as  jelly  cake  is  made. 

Grated  oocoanut  can  be  used  instead,  by  preparing  as  fol- 
lows :  one  large  cocoanut  grated,  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar. 
Pour  the  milk  from  the  nut  on  the  sugar ;  boil  it  two  or  three 
minutes,  first  mixing  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  if  not  soft 
enough,  add  some  sweet  milk.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  stir  in  the 
grated  cocoanut,  and  spread  between  the  cakes. — Mrs,  tT.  P,  G, 

Crea/m  Cake, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

1  cupful  of  sweet  milk. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

4  eggs. 

^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar. 
Bake  in  four  jelly  pans. 

Cream  for  the  Same. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

i  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

•^  cupful  of  flour. 

I  egg. 
Heat  the  mUk  to  boiling  heat,  beat  the  egg  and  sugar  to- 
gether ;  take  a  little  milk,  and  make  a  smooth  paste  with  the 
flour,  and  stir  into  the  sugar  and  egg,  then  stir  all  into  the 


842  QAPITAL  CAKE — ^A  NIOB  ODP  OAKB. 

milk.    Let  it  boil  until  thick,  then  spread  between  cakes.— 

QhsvtkL  Cake.  (IWtcioiM.) 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

4  oupfols  of  flour,  after  being  sifted. 

1  capful  of  butter. 

1  cupful  of  morning's  milk. 
6  ^ggs  beaten  light. 

2  teaq>oonfula  of  cream  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk.    Flavor  witb 
lemon  or  nutmeg. — Mn.  M. 

Cup  Cake. 

5  cupfiils  of  flour. 

8  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

1^  cupfuls  of  butter. 

As  much  fruit  as  you  like. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  cupful  of  milk. 
3  eggs. 
1  nutmeg. 

1  wine-glass  wine  and  brandy  mixed. 
Mix  as  pound  cake. — Mrs,  cTI  TP!  JET. 

Cfip  Cake, 

1  cupful  of  butter. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
2|-  cupfuls  of  flour. 
i  cupful  of  milk. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  teaspoonful  yeast  powder. — Jfus  M.   W, 

A  Ntee  Oup  Gake. 

6  eggs. 

4  cupfuls  of  flour. 


A   DBIJOIOnS  CAKE— OAKS.  348 

3  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
1  capful  of  butter. 
1  cupful  of  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Season  with  mace  and  nutmeg.     Bake  in  cu|)8  or  little  tin 
pans. — Mn.  Win.  C.  It. 

A  Delicious  Oake. 

2^  pounds  flour. 
2  pounds  butter. 
24  eggs,  yolks  and  whites. 
12  ounces  almonds. 

2  tableepoonfdls  rose  water,  in  which  the  almonds  should  be 
beaten. 

2  wine-glasses  of  French  brandy. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  beaten  mace,  and  a  butter-plate  of 
preseryed  lemon-peel. — X.  T. 

Delicuyua  Cake, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
I  cupful  of  butter. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour,  after  being  sifted. 
3  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  and  between  each  layer  put  fruit  jelly, 
idng  of  chocolate  and  cocoanut  each.  This  quantity  will  bake 
five  thin  cakes. — 3fr8.  McQ. 

Cakb. 

1  quart  of  flour,  well  dried. 
1  cupful  of  butter. 

3  cupfuls  granulated  sugar — ^it  is  better  than  ))\ilvorized. 
6  e§^,  well  beaten. 


344  OAKE — CUdl'ABD  OAEE. 

Lemon,  or  other  seasoning. 

1  light  measure  of  both  Horsford*s  powders,  or,  if  preferred, 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  ^  cup  of  buttermUk. 

Cream  of  tartar  takes  the  place  of  buttermilk,  when  used 
with  Boda.«- Jfrff.  A. 

Cake   ivith  smtce,) 

5  eggs. 

1  pound  of  flour. 
}  pound  of  sugar. 
^  pound  butter. 

1  cup  of  cream. 

2  teaspoonful  s  cream  of  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs,  C.  A 

Cake  that  cannot  Faii.. 

1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  flour, 
f  pound  butter. 
8  eggs. 

1  teacup  of  sweet  cream. 

2  t€aspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  put  in 
the  cream.     Bake  in  pans  or  cups. — Mrs,  P, 

Custard  Cake* 

\  cupful  butter. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 

7  eggs,  leaving  out  4  yolks. 

3  cupfuls  flour. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.     Bake  in  shallow  pans. 
For  the  custard  :  one  quart   of  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil, 

sweeten  it ;  take  the  four  yolks  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch, mix  with  a  little  of  the  milk  cold,  and  then  stir  it  grad- 


MBS.   GALT's  OAKB — KBTTLK   OAKB.  345 

oally  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  continue  to  stir  until  done. 
Add  a  piece  of  buttor  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  flavor  with  vanilla, 
and  put  between  the  cakes. — Mrs,  C.  JB, 

Mrs.  Galt's  Cake. 

Whites  of  13  eggs,  yolks  of  3. 

}  pound  of  butter. 

1  pound  of  dour. 

1  pound  of  sugar.     Season  to  taste. — MUs  E.  71 

Norfolk  Cakb. 

Beat  to  a  cream : 
1  teacup  of  butter. 
6  eggs. 

3  teacups  of  sugar. 
1  teacup  of  cream. 

4  teacups  of  flour. 
^  nutmeg. 

1  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

1  pound  raisins. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  cream. — Mrs.  Dr,  8. 

Kettlb  Oajicb. 

Have  a  large,  nice  brass  kettle  ready.     Set  it  on  a  few  warm 
embers,  not  with  any  fire ;  put  into  the  kettle : 

12  eggs. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  butter. 

A  light  pound  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  mace. 

Kind  and  juice  of  a  large  lemon. 
Stir  all  the  materials  rapidly,  and  with  a  strong,  large  iron 
spoon  or  a  long  butter-ladle.     When  it  is  light,  which  will  be 
in  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  put  it  in  a  mould  and  bake 
as  common  pound  cake.     It  is  good  with 


846  pabsoh'b  oaks — ^buoglbb'  oaxb. 

2  ponnds  oturrantB. 

2  pounds  raisins. 

^  pound  citron. 

1  glass  of  brandy. — Mrs.  M.  (7.  (7* 

Pabson's  Oaks. 

5  eggs. 

1  large  teacupful  brown  sugar. 

4  cupfnls  flour. 

3  cupfuls  molasses. 

1^  cupful  butter. 

Ginger  and  spice  to  the  taste. 

1  teaspoonfulsoda,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.     Bake. — Jfrt 

D.K 

Risen  Cake. 

H  po^i^<l  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 
9  ounces  butter. 

3  giUs  milk. 
\  pint  yeast. 

4  eggs. 

Work  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Put  the  yeast  in  the 
flour  and  one-half  the  butter  and  sugar  the  overnight ;  .then 
mix  the  milk  in,  and  beat  it  some  time.  Bet  it  where  it  will 
rise.  In  the  morning,  when  well  risen,  mix  in  the  remainder 
of  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  the  eggs,  also  some  currants  or  rai- 
sins, or  both,  if  you  wish  them,  a  little  nutmeg  or  mace,  and 
beat  all  well  together  for  some  time.  Then  put  it  in  the  pan 
and  set  it  to  rise  again.  It  must  be  very  light  before  you  put 
it  in  the  oven.     It  requires  some  time  to  soak. — Mr$.  L  IT. 

RuoGLEs'  Cake. 

6  eggs. 

1^  cupful  butter. 

3  cupfuls  sugar. 


TIF8T  OAXB — ^NAFLBB  BEBOUIT.  847 

4  capfuls  flour. 
1  oapfdl  milk. 
1  teaspoonfiil  soda. 
Season  to  taste. — Mn*  It, 

Tipsy  Cake. 

Soak  sponge  cake  in  wine  and  water.  Make  a  custard  of  six 
eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  and  oour  over  it.  Reserve  the 
whites,  beat  to  stiff  froth,  to  put  over  last. — Jfrs.  Dr.  S. 

YsLYXT  Oake. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  sugar ;  creamed  together. 
One  teacup  of  cold  water,  with  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  it,  and  poured  in  the  butter  and  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  in  one  pound  of  flour. 

Mix  the  flour  with  butter,  sugar,  and  water,  and  beat  well. 

Take  five  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  then  beat 

them  together  three  minutes.      Season  as  you  like,  and  mix 

with  the  batter.     Beat  considerably  and  bake  half  an  hour. — 

Mrs.  A.  JS. 

Whortlebbrbt  Cake. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  pound  sugar. 

f  pound  butter. 

1  quart  flour. 

^  pint  sifted  meaL 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

A  little  mace  and  cinnamon. 
After  mixing,  stir  in  one  quart  of  the  berries,  so  as  not  to 
mash  them,  having  previously  dusted  them  with  flour.     Mix 
the  soda  with  one-half  pint  of  cream  or  milk. — Mrs,  A.  P. 

Naples  Bisouit. 

1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 


848  lOINQ  —COLD  ICIKO. 

12  whites,  and  10  yolks  of  eggs. 
2  glasses  wine. 
They  should  gradually  harden  in  the  oven  till  quite  crispy  ana 
be  frequently  turned  in  the  pans. 

IciNO. 

1^  pound  sugar. 
^  pint  water. 
Boil  until  it  ropes.     Have  ready  the  whites  of  seven  eggs 
well  beaten,  i>our  the  syrup  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  until  milk- 
warm.     Then  put  in  tlie  eggs,  and  beat  for  an  hour. — Mrs.  W, 

Hot  Icing. 

Dissolve  one  pint  powdered  sugar  in  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  water,  and  boil. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  strong  froth  ;  add  the  hot 
sugar,  stirring  in  till  smooth.  Boat  about  two  minutes  and  fla- 
vor to  your  taste,  spread  on  the  cake,  and  put  in  a  hot  place. — 

Mrs.  P. 

Icing. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  dissolved  and  boiled  in  a  small  teacup  of 
water. 

I'hcn  strain  the  sugar  and  pour  it  into  the  e^^  beating  it 
hard  until  cool. 

Add  one^half  teaspoonful  lemon  acid. — X.  D,  L. 

Boiled  Icing. 

1^  pound  cut  sugar,  or  double  refined. 

1  teacup  of  water. 

6  whites  of  eggs. 

Boil  the  sugar  to  candy  height ;  when  nearly  cold  putin  eggBi 

^Miss  E.  P, 

Cold  Icing. 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 
1  pound  sugar. 


IdNa  FOB  CAKS — BOILED  lOINO.  349 

Beat  very  light  and  Beason  with  vanilla  or  lemon.  After 
beating  very  lightly,  add  the  white  of  another  egg  and  it  will 
give  a  pretty  gloss  upon  the  icing. — Mitts  JS.  P. 

Icing  for  Cake. 

Take  thi'ee  pounds  cut  or  best  quality  of  loaf  sugar,  dissolve 
it  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  boil  to  candy  height  or  until  it 
ropes.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  thirteen  eggs  well  beaten. 
When  the  sugar  is  boiled  sufficiently,  pour  it  into  a  deep  bowl, 
occasionally  stirring  it  gently,  until  you  can  just  bear  your  fin- 
ger in  it ;  then  add  the  beaten  egg  all  at  once,  beating  it  very 
hard  for  half  an  hour,  when  it  is  ready  for  use.  Strain  into  the 
icing  the  juice  of  one  lemon  into  which  the  peel  has  been  grated, 
for  half  an  hour.— Jtfr*.  F.  C.  Wl 

Icing. 

Break  into  a  dish  the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Whip  in  by 
degrees  one  and  one-quarter  pound  of  the  finest  loaf  sugar, 
powdered  and  sifted.  Beat  till  stiff  and  smooth,  then  add  the 
strained  juice  of  a  large  lemon  with  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  lemon, 
and  beat  again  ;  in  all  beat  half  an  hour.  If  too  stiff  add  a  lit- 
tle more  white  of  ej»g.  Some  persons  put  it  on  with  a  knife, 
but  it  is  fkr  smoother  and  more  evenly  spread  over  the  cake  if 
put  on  with  a  large  spoon.  Dip  up  a  spoonful  of  the  icing  and 
pour  it  from  the  spoon  over  the  cake.  Pour  it  over  the  top  of 
the  cake  and  it  will  diffuse  itself  down  the  sides.  To  color  icing 
yellow,  steep  the  rind  of  an  orange  or  lemon  in  the  lemon  juice 
before  straining  it  into  the  icing.  To  make  it  pink,  put  in 
strawberry  or  cranberry  juice  with  the  lemon  juice. — Mrs,  /S.  T, 

Icing  for  Cakes. 

Whites  of  six  eggs  to  one  pound  sugar,  or  one  egg  to  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. — Mrs,  Dr,  JT. 

Boiled  Icing. 
One  and  one-fourth  pound  loaf  sugar,  added  to  one  teacuf 


8S0  SOFT  OmOER  OAKB — 6INOEB  LOAF. 

of  water  and  boiled  to  a  thick  Bjrup.  Then  stnun  it  through 
thin  muslin,  and,  while  hot,  stir  into  it  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Then  beat  in  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
season  with  a  little  oil  of  lemon.  If  too  thin,  add  a  little  sugar  ; 
if  too  stiff,  add  a  little  more  white  of  egg. — Mt$.  S.  T. 

Soft  Gikobr  Cake. 

1  cupful  butter. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  molasses. 

1  cupful  sour  cream. 

3  eggs. 

^  tablespoonful  of  soda. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger. 

Flour  until  the  spoon  will  almost  stand  alone.     Cloves  and 
cinnamon  to  taste.    (This  is  very  good.) — Mrs.  JT.  F. 

Soft  Ginoe&bbbad. 

3  eggs. 

1  teacup  butter. 
^  teacup  ginger. 
1  teacup  molasses. 
3  teacups  sifted  flour. 
1  large  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 

1  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  ^  teacup  of  soar 
cream. — Mrs,  McQ-, 

GiNOEB  Loaf. 

6  eggs. 

4  cupfuls  molasses. 
2  cupfuls  of  butter. 
6  cupfuls  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

Cinnamon  to  your  taste. — Mrs,  P.  TV. 


risen  gingbbbrbad — mola88k8  oakb.  s5l 

Risen  Ginoebbread. 

2  pounds  flour. 

1  pound  nice  brown  sugar. 

1  pound  butter. 

6  eggs. 

•)•  pint  molasses. 

3  ounces  ginger. 
Bake  in  a  large  oake. — Mr»,  A.  T. 

LlOHTBNED  GiNGBBBBBAD. 

1^  pound  of  flour. 
^  pound  butter. 
^  pound  sugar. 
6  eggs. 

6  races  of  white  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  pint  molasses. 
To  be  baked  in  tins  or  a  pan. — Ifra,  Z  JET. 

GiNGBB  Cup  Cake. 
8  eggs. 

1  cupful  molasses. 
1  cupful  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter  (half  lard  will  answer). 
i  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful  buttormilk. 
1  tablespoonful  ground  ginger. 
2^  cupfuls  flour. 

as  other  cake.     Some  like  allspice. — Mrs,  J7.  IJ, 

Molasses  Cake. 

5  light  cupfuls  flour. 

6  eggs. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 
2  cupfuls  molasses. 
1  cupful  butter. 


2i53  M0L4BSB8  OAKB — ^BLAOK,  OB  MOLAfl8E8  OAKB. 

1  cupful  cream,  with  one  teaspoonfiil  soda. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
2  teaspoonfuls  ground  ginger. 

All  well  beaten  together.     Bake  as  pound  cake. — JftM  R  7* 

Molasses  Cake, 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  pound  butter. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  pint  molasses. 
1  tablespoouful  ginger. 
*'       r   enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  ordinary  cake. — 3i%SM 

Molasses  Pound  Cakb. 

^  pound  butter. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 

2  cupfuls  molasses. 

6  cupfuls  flour. 

1  cupful  cream. 

4  eggs. 

Some  cloves  and  nutmeg ;  add  lemon  to  taste. 

—Mrs.  Dr.  & 

Black,  ob  Molasses  Cake. 

<  quart  flour. 

.-  eggs. 

i.  pmt  molasses. 

•r  pound  butter. 

;  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

\  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  1  teacup  sour  milk. 

—Mrs.  T.  C. 


SMALL  CAKES — DBOP  OAKB.  853 


SMALL  CAK£S. 


Albany  Cakes. 

1^  pound  flour. 
1^  pound  brown  sugar. 
1^  pound  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  lard. 
4  tablespoonfuls  powdered  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  milk. 
R  >     on  extra  flour  very  thin.     Dip  the  face  of  each  cake  in 
granulated  sugar.     Bake  slowly  in  greased  pans. — Mrs,  R,  H. 

SooTCH  Cakes.  (  Very  nice,) 

2  pounds  flour. 
1^  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  butter. 

6  eggs,  beaten  together. 

3  nutmegs. — Mre,  P.  McQ, 

Sweet  Crackers. 
4  eggs. 

4  cupfuls  sugar. 

^  pound  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  cupful  sour  cream. 

Pounded  cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg  for  flavoring. 

Sufficient  flour  for  a  soft  dough. 

Koll  thin  and  cut  it  with  tin  shapes,  and  bake  quickly. — 

Mrf.  S, 

Drop  Cake. 
6  eggs. 

1  pound  sugar. 

}  pound  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  in  1  cupful  sour  cream. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  in  I  quart  flour. 

—Mrs.  8. 
30 


851  obbam  0ake8 — ^habguebitbs. 

Cream  Cakes. 

Beat  up  one  egg,  add  to  it  half  a  cupful  sugar,  half  a  oupfi  J  flour, 
mixing  thoroughly.  While  this  is  being  done,  put  on  the  fire 
half  a  pint  milk ;  when  it  boils,  stir  in  the  eggs,  sugar,  and 
flour  mixture,  then  add  a  piece  of  butter,  half  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Stir  all  the  time  until  it  is  of  the  desired  consistency,  which  will 
be  in  (.  few  minutes.  When  cold,  add,  and  thoroughly  mix,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

For  the  cake :  put  one  tumblerful  of  water  to  boil,  and  then 
add  one-quarter  pound  butter;  when  melted,  put  in  one  and 
one-half  tumblerful  of  flour.  Stir  in,  mixing  thoroughly,  being 
careful  not  to  burn  it.  It  is  sufficiently  cooked  by  the  time  it 
is  thoroughly  mixed.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool, 
stir  in  five  unbeaten  eggs,  mixing  one  at  a  time.  It  will  then 
be  the  consistency  of  stiff  paste.  Drop  on  buttered  tins,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Cut  the  side 
and  insert  the  cream. — Mtb.  S,  M, 

Marguerites. 

Cream  together  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pound  of  butter 
very  light.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  sift  one  and  one-half 
pound  of  flour  into  the  eggs,  butter,  and  sugar ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  mixed  spices,  one-half  glassful  of  rose  water.  Stir  the  whole 
well,  and  roll  it  on  the  board  till  it  is  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut 
in  cakes  and  bake  quickly.  When  cold,  spread  the  surface  of 
each  cake  with  marmalade.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  light, 
and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  them  as  thick  as  icing. 
Flavor  it  with  lemon,  and  put  it  on  top  of  each  cake.  Put  the 
cakes  in  the  oven,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  of  a  pale  brown,  take 
them  out. — Miss  M.  C.  L. 

Margtterites, 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  and  five  ounces  of  sugar,  one 
pound  and  five  ounces  of  butter,  eight  eggs.  Rub  together  the 
butter  and  sugar  till  peiiectly  light;  beat  the  eggs  till  very 


.m'UAAm.-^ 


KABGUXBITB8,  OB  JBLLT  0AKB8 — 8HREW8BUBT  OAKE.      355 

diick,  leaying  out  the  whites  of  six  eggs  for  tlie  icing.  Sift  tht 
flour  into  the  eggs,  bntter  and  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed 
spices  (cinnamon,  mace,  and  nutmeg),  half  a  glass  of  rose  water. 
Stir  the  whole  well  together,  and  roll  it  on  your  paste-board 
about  half  an  inch  thick ;  then  cut  out  the  cakes  and  bake 
them  a  few  minutes.  When  cold,  spread  the  surface  of  each 
cake  with  marmalade  or  jam.  Beat  the  whites,  left  out,  very 
light,  and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  them  as  thick 
as  icing.  Season  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and  with  a  spoon  put  it 
on  each  cake.     Put  the  cakes  in  the  oven  to  brown. — 3frs.  JT! 


Marguerites,  or  Jelly  Cakes. 

Rub  together  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  till  pei- 
fectly  light.  Beat  six  eggs  till  very  thick,  leaving  out  the 
whites.  Sift  one  and  a  half  pound  of  dour  into  the  eggs, 
butter,  and  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spices  (cinnamon, 
mace,  and  nutmeg),  and  half  a  glass  of  rose  water.  Stir  the 
whole  weU,  and  roll  it  on  the  paste-board  about  one-quarter 
inch  thick.  Then  cut  out  the  cakes  and  bake  them  a  few 
minutes.  When  cold,  spread  tlie  surface  of  each  cake  with 
peach  jam  or  any  marmalade.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
very  light,  and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  them  as 
thick  as  icing.  Flavor  it  with  lemon  or  rose  water  and  with  a 
spoon  put  it  on  each  cake,  high  in  the  centre.  Put  the  cakes 
in  the  oven,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  of  a  pale  brown  take  them 
out. — Mr».  I.  H, 

Shrewsbury  Cake, 

1  pound  flour. 
12  ounces  sugar. 
12  ounces  butter. 

2  eggs. 

Add  two  tablespoonfuls  rose  water,  or  two  teaspoon  fuls  beaten 
mace.    Roll  and  bake  in  tin  sheets  or  in  au  oven. — M^-     ^ 


356  maoaboons — juhblbb. 

Macaboonb. 

Blanca  and  pound  one  pound  of  sweet  almonds  with  a  littie 
rose  water ;  whip  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  to  a  froth ;  add  one 
pound  sugar ;  beat  some  time.  Add  the  almonds ;  mix  welL 
Drop  on  buttered  paper,  sift  sugar  over  them,  and  bcike 
quickly. 

JUMBLBS. 

1  pound  flour. 
f  pound  butter. 
1  pound  sugar. 
3  eggs.     Flavor  with  maoe. 
A  delicious  cake. — Mrs,  A,  T. 

Jackson  Jukblbb. 
3  teacups  sugar. 
1  teacup  lard. 
6  teacups  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  in  one  cup  of  sour  cream. 
3  eggs. 

The  grated  rind  of  one  or  two  lemons,  or  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg.    Roll  out  and  bake. — Mrs,  M.  JS. 

JUMBLBS. 

3  pounds  flour. 

2  pounds  sugar. 
1  pound  butter. 
8  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

A  little  milk  if  the  eggs  are  not  enough. — Jffrs.  Ml  R 

Jumblea, 
Rub  one  pound  butter  into  one  and  a  quarter  pound  flour  ; 
beat  four  eggs  with  one  and  a  quarter  pound  sugar,  very  light ; 
mix  well  with  the  flour.     Add  one  nutmeg  and  a  glass  of 
brandy. — JSfrs.  J".  Wi 


OOFTBB  OAKS — STRAWBERRY  0AXB8.  857 

COFFBE  OaKB. 

1  teacup  of  molasses. 

1  capful  of  good  liquid  coffee, 

1  cupful  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter. 

4  cupfuls  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  dbnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  taitar. 

•)-  teaspoonful  soda^ 

1  pound  of  raisins. 

^  pound  of  citron. 

3  eggs. 

i  wine-glass  of  brandy. — Mrs,  J.  H,  R 

OiNNAMOK   OaKES. 

1  pound  butter. 

2  pounds  flour. 

1  pound  sugar. 

Six  eggs,  leaving  out  two  yolks,  which  you  will  beat  up 
with  a  little  rose  water,  and,  with  a  feather,  spread  on  the 
cakes ;  then  strew  cinnamon  and  sugar  on  them,  and  blanched 
almonds.  Lay  them  on  tins,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven. — 
Mrs,  I,  H, 

CiKKAMON  Cakes. 

2  quarts  flour. 

6  or  8  eggs,  the  yolks  only. 

\  pound  butter. 

\  pound  sugar. 

1  spoonful  cinnamon. — Mrs,  Dr.  IL  JSL 

Strawberry  Cakes. 

2  pounds  flour. 

1  pound  loaf  sugar. 


368  HOLMOBOFT  OAKB— COOKIES. 

1  pound  butter. 
6  eggs. 

Mace  and  a  little  wine  to  flavor. 
Bake  quickly. — Mtb,  A.  T, 

HoLMCROFT  Cake. 

1  coffee-cup  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  not  melted. 

1  teacup  of  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  or  1  whole  egg. 

2  coffee-cups  of  flour. — Mrs,  N, 

Nothings. 
Take  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  cream,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  flour  to  make  the  dough  very  stiff;  work  it  well  and 
roU  it  very  thin.     Cut  the  size  of  a  saucer.     Fry  in  lard  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  T.  C, 

Sugar  Cakes. 

Mix  four  cupfiils  of  sugar  with  eight  cupfuls  of  flour  and  ooe 
large  spoonful  of  coriander-seed  ;  add  one  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  lard,  six  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream  oi 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs,  Dr,  S. 

Cookies. 
3  eggs. 

1  cupful  of  butter  or  lard. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

6  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour. 
1  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  with  the  flour. 
Cream  the  butter  with  one  cup  of  the  sugar,  beat  the  eggs 

separately  and  put  into  the  yolks  the  remaining  cup  of  sugar ; 
add  this  to  the  butter,  and  put  in  whites  and  flour  lastb  RoU 
thin  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs,  Fl  J^,  J^, 


qlouoiestkb  0akb8— obulleb8.  859 

Gloucbstbb  Cakss. 

6  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light;  mix  into  them  the  flour  and  udlk 
alternately,  and  beating  it  until  perfectly  smooth,  add  a  little 
salt.     Melt  the  butter  and  stir  it  into  the  batter.     Bake  in 
amall  moulds. — Mrs,  J'.  D, 

Tea  Cakes. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 

1  small  teacup  of  lard. 
1  small  teacup  of  butter. 

3  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

1  cupful  of  cream  (sour  is  best). 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda. 

1  grated  nutmeg. 

Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  — 
Mrs.  F.  a  W. 

Crui.leks. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 
6  eggs. 

2  spoonfuls  of  soda. 

4  spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 

A  little  salt. 

Rub  the  cream  tartar,  flour,  and  sugar  together;  wet  with 

sweet  milk  quite  sofb.     Have  the  lard  several  inches  deep  in 

the  pot  or  pan  you  cook  in,  and  when  boiling  lay  in  enough 

crullers  just  to  cover  the  bottom.     They  must  be  quite  thin,  and 


360      TEA  0AKE8 — ^A  DSUCATB  OAKR   FOB  TEA. 

when  brown  on  the  lower  sidey  torn  over  with  a  fork.     They 
are  more  convenient  to  turn  with  a  hole  in  the  centre. — jSfrt.  ^. 

Tba  Cakes. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 

3  oupfuls  of  sugan 
]  cup  of  butter. 

6  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  2  tablespoonfiilB  of  8W«ei 

milk. 

2  teaspoonftds  cream  of  tartar. 

Season  with  lemon  or  nutmeg. — Mrs.  H. 

Delicate  Tea  Cakes. 

Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth. 

1  capful  of  pulverized  sugar. 

^  cupful  of  sweet  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2^  cupfuls  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  almonds. 

^  cupful  of  melted  butter. — Mrs,  JL 

Tartaric  Cakes. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  the  whites  whipped  to  a  froth, 
three  full  cups  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one 
spoonful  lard,  one  and  a  half  pound  of  flour,  leaving  two  spoon- 
fuls to  roll  with.  Mix  all  well  together.  Dissolve  one  tea- 
spoonful soda  an,d  three-quarters  teaspoonful  tartaric  acid  in  a 
little  cream.  First  mix  the  soda  with  the  dough,  then  the  acid. 
Season  with  mace  ot  wine.    They  will  rise  very  much. — Jtfrs.  2>. 

A  Delicate  Cake  for  Tea. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs  separately;  to  the 
yolks  add  two  coffee-cups  of  sugar,  and  two  cupfuls  of  sweet 


LEMON  JUMBLES — ^DELIOIOUB  SMALL  OAKES.  361 

milk;    then  four   tablespoonfuls   butter    creaxaed;    next    the 
white  of  the  eggs,  lastly,  four  cupfuis  of  flour  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 
Bake  in  shallow  pans. — Mrs.  C,  V.  Mc  O. 

Lemon  Jumbles. 
1  egg. 

1  teacupful  sugar. 
\  teacupful   of  butter. 
3  teaspoonfuls  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  small  lemons ;  juice  of  two  and  grated  rind  of  one. 
Mix  rather  stifll     Boll  and  cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter. — 

Mrs,  W. 

BONNEFEADAS. 

Make  a  rich  paste  with  one  quart  flour ;  roll  it  out  very  thin, 
first  dividing  it  in  two  pieces,  spread  it  with  butter,  washed  and 
creamed,  "  A "  sugar,  and  pulverized  cinnamon.  Roll  it  up, 
cut  it  in  pieces  one  inch  wide ;  put  them  in  a  pan  with  the 
whole  side  down ;  sprinkle  over  them  sugar,  butter,  and  cinna- 
mon. Bake  quickly.  Take  them  out  of  the  pan  while  hot. — 
Mrs,  Col,  A,  L, 

Delicious  Small  Cakes. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs. 

1  light  pound  flour. 

\  pound  butter. 

1  spoonful  lard. 

1  pound  sugar. 
These  cakes  are  better  without  soda  and  of  the  consistency 
of  Shrewsbury  cakes.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  strong 
fi\>th ;  weigh  one  pound  of  the  best  "  A  "  sugar,  put  it  in  a  tin 
can  with  three  wine-glasses  of  water.  Let  it  boil  slowly,  till  it  be- 
gins to  rope,  or  rather,  when  a  little  of  it  will  cool  ou  a  plate, 

31 


862  WAVERS— OINOKB  0AKB8. 

like  it  would  begin  to  candy.  Then  pour  the  boiling  sagar 
gradually  to  the  white  of  (3gg ;  beat  it  well  till  it  begins  to  tiiick- 
en  and  to  cool  somewhat^  then  beat  into  the  icing  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  cinnamon,  and  ice  over  the  little  cakes,  using 
a  stiff  feather  for  the  purpose.  You  can  add  the  other  unbeater 
whites  of  eggs,  with  an  addition  of  sugar,  to  make  more  small 
cakes. — Mra.  M.  C*  C. 

Wafehs. 

4  ounces  butter. 

4  ounces  sugar. 

5  ounces  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  glass  of  wine. 

A  little  mace  and  nutmeg. — Mrs.  Dr.  X, 

Wafers. 

4  spoonfuls  flour. 
4  spoonfuls  sugai*. 
4  spoonfuls  cream. 
1  spoonful  butter. 
Orange  peel,  mace,  and  nutmeg. 
Pi-epare  as  for  pound  cake.     Bake  in  wafer  irons,  rolling  them 
while  hot. 

Dimples. 

i$eat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  three-quarters  pound  of 
sugar  till  well  mixed.  Stir  in  blanched  almonds,  cut  fine. 
Drop  on  tins  and  bake  in  a  cool  oven. — Mrs,  A.  (7. 

Ginger  Cakes, 

1  teacup  of  butter. 
1  teacup  brown  sugar. 
1  teacup  sour  milk. 
7  cupfuls  flour. 


QDX&KR  8NAP8— OINGBB  B01QfB.  868 

H  teacup  molasses. 

1^  teaspoonfuls  soda. — Jtfrs.  C,  S, 

GiKOER  Snaps. 

1  pint  of  molasses. 
1  teacup  brown  sugar. 
1  teacup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
Beat  the  molasses  till  it  looks  light,  then  put  it  in  the  sugar ; 
next  pour  in  the  hot  butter  and  lard,  one  egg  beaten  light,  one 
teacup  ground  ginger. 

Have  the  mixture  milk-warm ;  work  flour  in  briskly.     Roll 
them  and  bake  quickly. — JUtsa  If.  S.  L, 

GiNOEB    CaKBS. 

1  dozen  eggs. 

2  pounds  of  flour. 
1  poimd  butter. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pint  molasses. 

1  small  teacup  of  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs,  Col.  8, 

Cheap  Ginger  Cakes. 

3  pints  of  flour. 

1  large  spoonfiil  of  lard. 

2  large  spoonfuls  of  ginger. 

1  dessertspoonful  of  soda  in  a  pint  of  molasses. 

—Mrs.  JBT.  8. 

GiNGEB  Bunks. 

}  pound  butter,  ^  pound  sugar,  rubbed  to  a  cream. 

^  nutmeg. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 
Stir  all  together,  then  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  stir  in  one 
pound  of  flour  and  moisten  with  sweet  milk,  until  it  can  be 
eaaOy  worked.     Boll  out  and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs,  H,  D, 


364  MOLA88E8  CAKES — ^DBOP  ODiaER   CAKB8. 

Molasses  Cakes. 

7  cupfals  of  flour. 
2  cupfuls  of  molasses. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  of  butter. 
1  cupful  of  sour  milk. 

1  even  tablespoonful  of  soda. 

2  tablespoon fu Is  of  ginger. 

Let  the  dough  be  as  soft  as  you  can  conveniently  handle  it 
Bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. — Mtb.  It,  L, 

Spice  Nuts. 

1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pint  molasses.     Mix  welL 
f  pound  butter. 
3  tablespoon fuls  ginger. 
1  tablespoonful  alLspioe. 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  small  drops  or  cakes. — Mrs.  Dr.  J\ 

Ginger  Snaps. 

1  cupful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  in  1  pint  boiling  molasses. 
Siir  and  let  it  cool  \  add  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  a  douch  j 
roU  thin  and  bake. — Mrs,  S,  H, 

Drop  Ginger  Cakes. 

1  pound  butter,  cream  it  as  for  pound  cake. 

2  packed  quarts  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 

1  pint  molasseSb 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. — Mrs.  N". 


FUDDIHOa — ^PLUM  PUDDING.  866 

PUDDINGS. 

The  directions  given  for  cake  apply  likewise  to  puddings. 
Always  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately  and 
very  light,  and  add  the  whites  just  before  baking  or  boiling. 
All  puddings  (except  those  risen  with  yeast),  should  be  baked 
immediately  after  the  ingredients  are  mixed.  Thick  yellow 
earthenware  dishes  are  better  than  tin  for  baking  puddings, 
on  several  accounts.  One  is  that  the  pudding,  to  be  good,  must 
be  baked  principally  from  the  bottom,  and  tin  bums  more  easily 
than  earthenware.  Another  reason  is,  that  the  acids  employed 
in  some  puddings  corrode  and  discolor  tin.  Garnish  the  pud- 
ding with  sifted  white  sugar,  and  with  candied  or  preserved 
orange  or  lemon  peel. 

In  boiliDg  a  pudding,  cold  water  should  never  be  added. 
Keep  a  kettle  of  hot  water  to  replenish  the  water  in  the  pot  as 
it  boils  away.  As  soon  as  the  pudding  ia  done,  remove  it  from 
the  boiling  water.  A  decrease  in  heat  whilst  cooking,  makes 
boiled  pudding  sodden,  and  makes  baked  pudding  fall.  The 
best  sauce  for  a  boiled  pudding  is  cold  sauce  made  of  the  frothed 
whites  of  eggs,  butter,  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  French 
brandy,  while  for  a  baked  pudding,  a  rich,  boiled  wine  sauce  is 
best. 

Plum  Pudding. 

3  dozen  ^gs. 

3  pounds  baker's  bread,  stale,  and  grated  fine. 

3  pounds  suet. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 

1  pound  slice<]  citron. 

3  pounds  currants. 

4  pounds  seeded  raisins. 

^  ounce  nutmeg,  and  the  same  of  mace,  cloves,  and  cinnamon. 

Half  pini  wine. 

Half  pint  French  cooking  brandy. 


A66  PLUM  PUODINO. 

Mix  ani  divide  into  six  parts.  Tie  each  part  in  a  twilled 
cotton  cloth,  put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  fonr 
hours.  Then  hang  them  in  the  air  to  dry  a  day  or  two.  Keep 
them  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

When  you  wish  to  use  one,  it  must  be  boiled  an  hour  before 
dinner.  Serve  with  rich  sauce.  It  will  keep  six  months  or  a 
year.— Jfr*.  T.  M.  C. 

Pl/wn  Pudding. 

10  eggs. 

1  pound  chopped  suet. 

1  pound  seeded  raisins. 

1  pound  currants. 

1  pound  stale  bread  crumbs. 

\  pound  citron. 

1  nutmeg. 

1  wine-glassful  wine. 

1  wine-glassful  brandy. 

^  pound  brown  sugar. 
Beat  the  eggs  light,  add  the  sugar  and  spioes,  stir  in  the 
suet  and  bread  crumbs,  add  the  fruit  by  degrees,  then  the  wine 
and  brandy.  Pour  into  a  well-floured  bag,  leaving  a  third  as 
much  room  as  the  mixture  occupies,  for  swelling.  Put  into 
a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  four  hours.  Dip  the  bag  into 
cold  water  when  ready  to  turn  out  the  pudding,  to  prevent  it 
firom  sticking. — Mrs,  JE.  B, 

Plum  Pvddmg, 

At  sunrise,  sift  a  quart  of  the  best  flour;  rub  into  it  an 
Irish  potato  mashed,  frae  from  lumps.  Put  in  it  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  half  teacup  of  yeast.  Add  six  eggs,  beaten 
separately,  and  enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead 
half  an  hour  without  intermission.  In  winter,  set  it  in  a  warm 
place,  in  summer  set  it  in  a  cool  place  to  rise.  If  dinner  is 
wanted   at  two  o'clock,  knead  into  this  at  one  o'clock,  half 


BIOH  FLUM  PUDDING ^ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING.        367 

pound  of  butter,  two  pounds  of  stoned  raisins,  cut  up,  and  a 
grated  nutmeg.  Work  very  little,  just  enough  to  mix.  Wet 
a  thick  cloth,  flour  it  and  tie  it  loosely  that  the  pudding  may 
have  room  to  rise.  Put  it  in  a  kettle  of  milk- warm  water, 
heating  slowly  until  it  boils.  Boil  one  hour.  Serve  with  wine 
sauce. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

EioH  Plum  Pudding. 

Nine  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth. 

Add  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter,  free  from  lumps. 
Then  add  one  pint  of  new  milk  and  beat  well.  Afterwards  add 
the  following  ingredients,  in  small  quantities  at  a  time,  keeping 
it  well  stirred. 

Two  pounds  stoned  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  well  washed, 
picked,  and  dried.  One-quarter  pound  bitter  almonds,  blanched 
and  divided ;  three-quarters  pound  brown  sugar ;  three-quarters 
pound  beef  suet,  chopped  tine ;  one  nutmeg,  grated  fine ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  ground  allspice,  the  same  of  mace  and  cinna- 
mon. 

This  pudding  should  be  mixed  several  days  before  cooking, 
then  well  beaten,  and  more  milk  sho\ild  be  added,  if  i-equired. 
Make  this  into  two  puddings,  put  in  cotton  bags  and  boil  four 
hours.  By  changing  the  bags,  and  hanging  in  a  cool,  dry  place, 
they  will  keep  six  months  and  be  the  better  for  it.  Steam  and 
serve  with  sauce  made  as  follows : 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  of  butter.  Beat  well  together; 
Break  an  egg  in  and  mix  well.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  wine 
or  brandy,  and  serve  immediately. — Mrs,  F. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

1  pound  of  stale  bread  grated. 

1  pound  currants. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  of  suet  chopped  as  fine  as  flour. 

^  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  and  the  same  of  citron. 


868  0HRI6T1CA8  PLUM  PUDDING PLUM  PUDDING. 

When  ready  to  boil,  wet  the  above  with  ten  eggs,  wt4. 
beaten,  two  wine-glasses  of  wine  and  the  same  of  brandy. 
Grate  the  rinds  of  two  lemons,  pare  and  chop  them  and  beat  all 
well  together.  Then  dip  a  strong  cloth  in  boiling  water  and 
wring  it  dry.  Lay  it  on  a  waiter,  greasing  well  with  butter. 
Put  it  in  a  large  bowl  and  pour  the  pudding  in,  putting  two 
sticks  in  the  cloth  across  each  other,  and  tying  below  the  sticks. 
Flave  the  water  boiling  and  throw  in  the  pudding  as  soon  as 
tied.  Put  a  plate  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot  and  boil  four 
hours. — Mrs,  Dr.  S, 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding. 

Half  a  loaf  of  bread  (grated). 

1  pound  currants. 

2  pounds  stoned  raisins. 
1  pound  chopped  suet. 

6  eggs,  and  2  pieces  of  citron  cut  up. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  two  cups  of  flour  and  somo 
milk,  then  stir  in  the  other  ingredients,  adding  a  little  salt  and 
ginger.  If  too  stitf,  add  more  milk.  The  water  must  be  boil- 
ing when  the  pudding  is  put  in.  It  will  take  two  hours  to 
cook. — Mrs,  M,  E.  J,  B, 

Plum  Pudding. 

8  eggs  (the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  very  light). 

1  pint  of  suet  chopped  fine. 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

1^  pint  stoned  raisins,  rubbed  in  flour. 

1  quart  of  bread  crumbs  rubbed  till  very  fine. 

Half  pint  citron  sliced  thin. 

1  teacup  of  light  brown  sugar. 
Grease  and  flour  your  mould,  pour  your  pudding  in,  boil  two 
houre,  and  eat  with  rich  boiled  sauce,  made  of  sugar,  butter, 
wine,  and  nutmeg. — Mrs,  B.  C,  C. 


BflOIPE  FOB   A   8IHPLEB  PLUM  PUDDING.  0\j\) 

JRecipefor  a  simpler  Plum  Pudding. 

3  cupfuls  flour. 
1  cupful  i*aisins. 
1  cupful  brown  sugar. 
1  cupful  buttermilk. 
^  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  of  suet,  or  half  a  oup  of  butter. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Boil  and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  B, 

Economical  Plum  Pudding. 

4  cupfuls  flour. 
1^  cup  of  suet. 

1  cupful  milk. 

2  cupfuls  raisins. 

1  cupful  molasses. 

2  eggs,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Boil  four  hours. — Mrs,  Ij. 

Anotlier  Recipe  for  the  Same. 
One  bowl  of  raisins,  one  of  currants ;  one  of  bread  crumbs ; 
one  bowl  of  eggs ;  one  of  brown  sugar ;  one  of  suet ;  citron  at 
pleasure.     Boil  four  hours. — Jfr«.  X. 

Original  Pudding. 

Heserre  a  portion  of  light  dough  intended  for  breakfast. 
Set  it  in  a  cool  place,  and  four  hours  before  dinner,  roll  thin, 
vrithout  kneading.  Sprinkle  thickly  over  it,  first,  a  layer  of 
sliced  citron,  then  a  layer  of  seeded  raisins.  Roll  up  and  lay 
on  a  buttered  bread-pan  till  very  light.  Then  either  boil  in  a 
cloth,  prepared  by  wetting  first  and  then  flouring  (the  pudding 
being  allowed  room  for  rising  in  this  cloth),  or  set  the  pan  in 
till'  stove  and  bake.  In  the  latter  case,  after  it  becomes  a  Hghl 
brown,  it  must  be  covered  with  a  buttered  paper. 
16* 


370  STEAMED  PUDDING ^AMHEBaT  PUDDINO. 

Dough  for  Frenoh  rolls  or  muffin  bread  is  especially  adapted 
CO  this  kind  of  pudding. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Steamed  Pudding. 

•)■  pound  of  seeded  raisins. 

4  eggs. 

2  cupf  uls  of  sugar. 

8  cupfuls  of  flour. 

1  cupful  of  sour  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

Let  it  steam  two  hours.  Have  the  water  boiling  fieust,  and 
don't  open  till  it  has  boiled  two  hours. — Mrs.  Dr.  J. 

Boiled  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  flour,  twelve  ounces  of  butter,  eight  ounces  ot 
sugar,  twelve  ounces  of  fruit  (either  dried  cherries  or  two  kinds 
of  preserves).     A  little  mace  and  wine. 

Boil  like  a  plum  pudding. 

Sauce  for  the  Same. 

One  pint  of  cream,  large  spoonful  of  butter,  one  glass  of  wine. 
Season  to  the  taste.  Let  it  cook,  but  not  come  to  a  boil. — ^jSfrs. 
A.F. 

Another  Sauce, 

Cream  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  work  into  it  six  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar;  beat  in  one  egg,  add  a  wine-glass  of  wine  or 
brandy,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  as 
soon  as  it  boils,  serve  it  for  the  table. — Mrs.  JF 

Amherst  Pudding. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour. 
1  cupful  of  suet. 
1  cupful  of  milk. 


BOILED  PUDDING  OF   ACID  FRUIT — TBOY  FUDDINO.     371 

1  cupful  of  molasaeN. 

2  cupfuls  of  raasins. 
1  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  of  oloves  and  the  same  of  cinnamon. 
^  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  milk. 
To  be  boiled  three  hours  in  a  coarse  bag,  and  eaten  with  wine 
■auco. — Mr$,  Wl 

Boiled  Pudding  of  Acid  Fbuit. 

1  quart  of  flour  (or  the  weight  in  stale  bread). 

2  eggs. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

^  pound  of  dried  fruit. 
If  apples  are  used,  plump  them  out  by  pouring  boiling  water 
on  them,  and  let  them  cool  before  using  them.     Season  with 
mace  and  nutmeg,  and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs,  T. 

Cherry  Pudding. 

3  oopfuls  of  flour. 
2  cupfuls  of  fruit. 
1  cupful  of  molasses. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  put  in  the  flour. 

1  cupful  of  suet. 

Mix  well,  put  in  a  butterad  moidd,and  boil  three  hours  and  a 

ball— Jfwtf  B.  T. 

Troy  Pudding. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

1  cupful  of  molasses. 

^  cupful  of  currants. 

^  cupful  of  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  dissolved  In  tho  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  ginger. 

1  toaspoonful  of  ground  doves. 


379  8WEBT  POTATO   BOLL — ^BOILED  PUDDIKa. 

Enough  Hour  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  soft  gingerbread.  Put  it 
in  a  mould,  and  steam  four  hours.  If  no  steamer  is  at  band, 
tie  the  mould  in  a  cloth  and  boil  four  hours. 

Sauce:  One  egg  (frothed),  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  boiled  with  a  small  piece  of  butter. 
Add  wine,  if  you  like. — Mrs,  W.  C.  It. 

Sweet  Potato  Roll. 

Prepare  pastry  as  for  cherry  roll.  Spread  it  out,  and  cover 
it  with  layei*s  of  boiled  sweet  potatoes,  thoroughly  mashed. 
Pour  over  it  melted  butter  and  sugar,  highly  flavored  with 
lemon.  Roll  it  up,  boil  in  a  bag,  and  serve  with  butter  and 
sugar  sauce. — Mrs.  Dr,  J,  F.  G. 

Boiled  Sweetmeat  Pudding. 

Twelve  ounces  flour  and  eight  ounces  butter  rolled  in  a 
square  sheet  of  paste.  Spread  over  the  whole  sweetmeats  (or 
stewed  fruit,  if  more  convenient).  Roll  closely  and  boil  in  a 
cloth.     Pour  sauce  over  it. — Mrs.  T. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudding. 

Pour  one  quart  inilk  over  a  loaf  of  grated  stale  bread.  Let 
it  stand  till  near  dinner  time.  Then  beat  six  eggs  very  light 
and  add  them  to  the  bread  and  milk,  together  with  a  little  flour, 
to  make  the  whole  stick.  Flour  the  bag  and  boil.  Eat  wiUi 
sauce. — Mrs.  ff.  A.  B. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudding,     (JSconomical.) 

Soak  one  pound  stale  bread  in  enough  milk  to  make  a  pud- 
ding. When  soft,  beat  it  up  with  two  eggs  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  flour.  Pour  in  a  large  lump  of  butter,  melted.  Put 
in  any  sort  of  fruit  you  like,  and  then  boil. — Miss  £1.  T. 

Boiled  Pudding. 

One  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  lard  size  of  turkey's  egg.     Floui 
enough  to  make  a  batter  for  a  teac  ip  of  fruit. 
Boil  and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  li. 


paste  foe  boiled  dumplinob — suet  pudding.     373 

Paste  for  Boiled  Dumplings. 

One  quart  flour,  three  good-sized  Irish  potatoes  (boiled  and 

mashed).     One   tablespoonful   butter,  and  the  same  of  lard. 

One  teaspoonful  soda,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.- 

Mrs,  E,  W. 

Apple  Dumplings. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  egg.  As  many  apples  (chopped 
fine)  as  the  batter  will  take.  Boil  two  hours  in  a  well-floured 
cloth. 

The  water  should  be  boiling  when  the  dumplings  are  dropped 
in,  and  it  should  be  kept  boiling  all  the  while,  else  they  will  be 
heavy.     Eat  with  sauce. — Mrs,  G,  iV". 

Boiled  Molasses  Pudding. 

1  cupful  molasses. 
1  cupful  sweet  milk. 
4  cupfuls  sifted  flour. 
1  cupful  stoned  raisins. 
^  cupful  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Boil  or  steam  in  a  pudding  mould.     Eat  with  wine  sauce. — 
Mrs.  McO. 

Suet  Pudding. 

1  quai-t  flour. 

2  teacups  suet,  chopped  fine. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Mix  the  suet  with  two-thirds  of  tlie  flour,  reserving  the  rest 
of  the  flour  to  roll  the  dough  in.  Put  in  a  cloth  and  boil  one 
hour. — Mrs.  B, 

Suet  Pudding, 
1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 


874  SUBT  DUMPLIN08 — FBUIT  PUDDUTO. 

^  poand  finely  chopped  suetw 
I  teaspoonful  powdered  ginger. 
1  toaspoonfiil  salt. 
Add  flour  giudually,  till  you  have  made  it  into  a  thick  batter. 
Boil  two  or  three  hoursy  and  serve  with  hot  sauce. — Mrs.  P.  Wi 

Suet  Dumplings. 

Rub  into  one  quart  flour,  one-half  pound  beef  suet,  free  of 
skin,  and  chopped  very  fine.  Add  a  little  salt^  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  buttermilk,  one  pound  fruit,  either  apples, 
diied  cheriies,  or  dried  peaches  cut  very  fine,  and  sufficient 
water  to  make  it  into  dough.  Make  it  into  dumplings  half  aa 
inch  thick,  boil  two  or  three  houra,  and  eat  with  a  sauce  made 
of  butter,  sugar,  and  wine. — Mrs.  G,  8, 

Eve's  Puddino. 

^  pound  finely  grated  bread  crumbs. 
^  pound  finely  chopped  apples. 
4  eggs. 

6  ounces  sugar. 

2  ounces  citron,  and  lemon  peel. 
•}•  pound  finely  chopped  suet. 
^  pound  currants. 
A  little  nutmeg. 
Butter  the  mould  well,  and  boil  three  hours. — Mrs.  H,  7!  8. 

Fruit  Pudding. 

4  eggs. 
1  pint  milk. 
4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
Apples  or  peaches  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  dropped  in  tlio  bat 
ter.     Sei've  with  sauce. — Mrs.  Dr>  8. 


BAKKD  P£AOH   DTTMPLINOB-M)H£KRY  PUDOXNO.  876 

Baked  Peach  Dumplings. 

Make  up  one  quart  of  flour  as  for  soda  biscuit.  Roll  like 
pastry,  putting  on  bits  of  lard  or  butter  several  times.  Make 
out  the  dough  like  biscuit,  roll  thin  and  on  each  piece  put  two 
or  three  pieces  of  canned  peaches.  (Peach  preserves  or  marma- 
lade would  answer  also. )  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  (if 
you  use  canned  peaches)  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  dump- 
ling. Draw  the  edges  flrmly  together  and  place  them  in  a  deep, 
large  baking  dish.  Put  sugai*  and  butter  between,  and  pour, 
over  all,  the  syrup  fi*om  the  can.  (Use  a  three-pound  can  for 
this  quantity  of  flour.)  Bake  quickly  and  serve  with  or  with- 
out sauce.  A  good  substitute  for  the  old-fashioned  *^  pot  peach 
pie."  Baked  apple  dumplings  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 
—Mrs,  S.  T. 

Currant  Puddino. 

1  pound  currants. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste.     Citron  will  improve  tlie  flavor. 
Eat  with  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  Dr,  E, 

Raspberry  Pudding. 

One  pint  flour,  six  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 
Mix  the  eggs  with  a  pint  of'  milk  and  one  cupful  of  butter. 
Into  this  stir  the  flour.  Make  the  berries  very  sweet.  Mash 
them  and  stir  them  into  the  batter.  Bake  in  a  dish  and  serve 
with  sauce. — Mm,  O,  C. 

Cherry  Pudding. 

10  eggs. 

I  cupful  melted  butter. 

1  quart  milk,  make  in  a  thick  batter. 

1  pound  dried  cherries  (stoned). — Mrs,  Dr.  M. 


376  AFFLE   PUDDING — DRIED   APPLE  FUDIXira. 

Apple  Pudding. 

1  pound  apples  stewed  very  dry. 
1  pound  sugar. 
^  pound  butter. 
Yolks  of  7  eggs. 
Rind  and  juice  two  lemons. 
Bake  in  a  paste. — Mrs.  Dr.  JS. 

Ddiciaus  Apple  Pudding, 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  melted  butter,  one 
cupful  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-third  cupful  of  apples,  one  tea- 
spoonful  essence  of  lemon;  baked  in  pastry.  This  quantity 
will  make  two  plates. — Mrs,  M,  M.  J), 

Apple  Pudding, 

Boil  and  strain  twelve  apples  as  for  sauce.  Stir  in  one-quar- 
ter pound  butter,  and  the  same  of  sugar.  When  cold,  add  four 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Pour  into  a  baking-dish  thickly  strewn  with 
crumbs,  and  strew  crumbs  on  the  top.  When  done,  grate  white 
sugar  on  top. — Mrs,  M, 

Apple  Pudding, 

1  quart  chopped  apples. 
1  pint  flour. 
1  pint  new  milk. 
3  eggs. 
Bake  quickly  after  mixing,  and  eat  with  sauce. — MisB  E,  7! 

Dried  Apple  Pudding. 

Wash  ten  ounces  of  apples  well  in  warm  water.  Boil  them 
in  a  quart  of  water.  When  soft,  add  ten  ounces  of  sugar,  eight 
ounces  of  butter,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons. 
When  cold  and  ready  to  bake,  add  five  beaten  eggs.  Bake  with 
or  without  pastry.  Ten  ounces  of  apples  will  make  a  commor 
sized  pudding. — Mrs,  R, 


BAKED   APPLE  BOLL — APPLE   CHARLOTTE.  877 

Baked  Apple  Koll. 

Make  a  paste,  roll  out  tbin.  Spread  over  it  apples  cut  io 
thin  slices.  Sprinkle  nice  sugar,  and  put  bits  of  butter  all  over 
this.  Koll  it  up,  place  it  in  a  baking-pan.  Pour  in  water  an(& 
put  sugar  and  butter  around  it,  grating  over  all  a  nutmeg. 
Anj  other  kind  of  fruit  can  be  made  into  the  same  kind  of  roll. 
—Mrs.  8.  T. 

Apple  MiRiNOUB,  vAJlh  custard, 

1  quart  apple-sauce. 

Juice  of  a  lemon. 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  large  cup  of  sugar. 
Strain  apple-sauce  through  a  colander.  Put  it  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add- 
ing a  little  sugar.  Cover  the  apples  with  the  frosting.  Set  in 
the  oven  to  brown,  and  eat  with  whipped  cream  or  soft  custard. 
—Mrs.  G.  W.  P. 

Apple  Meringue. 

Stew  the  apples  until  well  done  and  smooth.  Sweeten  to 
the  taste ;  add  the  rind  of  a  grated  lemon.  Beat  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  to  them  a  teacup  powdered  sugar, 
a  little  i*ose  water,  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  any  seasoning  preferred. 
Put  the  fruit  in  a  flat  dish,  and  put  the  egg  on  with  a  spoon. 
Brown  a  few  minutes.  Add  a  little  butter  to  the  apples  while 
hot. — Mrs.  C.  McO. 

Apple  Custard  Puddinq. 

Stew  six  sour  apples  in  half  a  cup  of  water.  Hub  through  a 
sieve  and  sweeten.  Make  a  custard  of  three  pints  milk,  six 
eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Put  the  apples  in  a  pudding- 
dish,  pour  the  custard  over  them,  and  bake  slowly  half  an  hour. 

—Mrs.  M.  B.  B. 

Apple  Charlotte. 

Equal  quantities  stewed  apples  and  bread  crumbs,  one  spoon 

32 


878  APPLE  OUSTABD— ORANOB  FODDINO. 

fill  butier,  three  eggs  beaten  up  and  stirred  in  at  the  last)  jiiat 
before  baking.  Spoonful  wine,  cinnamon,  natmeg,  lemon  peel, 
and  plenty  of  brown  sugar.  Stir  together,  and  bake  quite  a 
long  time. — Mr%.  I,  H, 

Apple  Gubtabd, 

1^  pint  stewed  apples. 
^  pound  sugar. 
Set  them  away  til    /Old. 

Beat  six  eggs  vety  light,  and  stir  in  gradusJly  a  quart  sweet 
milk.  Mix  ail  together,  pour  in  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  twen^ 
minutes. — Mrs,  F, 

CiTROK  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs. 

f  pound  sugar. 

\  pound  butter  (melted). 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  soaked  in  a  teacup  of  new 
milk,  and  made  into  a  paste  with  a  spoon.  A  glass  of  wine,  a 
little  nutmeg,  all  well  beaten  together  and  poured  over  sliced 
citron,  laid  on  a  rich  paste.  Afber  baking  it,  pour  over  it  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweetened  with  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar,  and  flavored  to  the  taste.  Put  it  in 
the  stove  again,  and  bake  a  light  brown. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

Citron  Pudding, 

Yolks  of  12  eggs. 

^  pound  butter. 

1  pound  sugar. 
Stir  in  the  butter  while  warming  the  eggs.     Out  tJie  citron  in 
pieces  and  drop  in  the  mixture.     Have  a  rich  paste,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven. — Mrs,  B, 

Oranob  Pudding. 

Peel  and  cut  five  good  oranges  into  thin  slices,  taking  out  the 
Med«     Pour  over  them  a  coffee-cup  of  white  sugar.     Let  a  pint 


oBANos  PUDDma.  379 

of  niilk  get  boiling  hot  by  setting  it  in  some  boiling  water.  Add 
yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  com  starch, 
made  smooth  with  a  little  milk.  Stir  all  the  time,  and  as  soon 
as  thickened  pour  over  the  fruit.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  spread  over  the  top.  Set 
it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  harden.  Serve  either  hot  or 
cold.— Jtfr«.  E.  P.  G. 

Orange  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  16  eggs, 
1  pound  powdered  sugar. 
1  pound  butter,  creamed. 
The  rinds  of  two  oranges,  grated,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
—Mrs.  Dr.  T.  W. 

Orange  Pudding, 

Take  skin  of  a  large  orange,  boil  it  soft,  pound  it,  and  add 
the  juice  of  one  orange,  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  ten  eggs, 
one  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar ;  beat  to  a  cream ;  add 
glass  of  wine,  brandy,  and  rose  water. — Mm.  tf.  T.  Q. 

Orange  Pudding. 

Pare  two  oranges,  beat  very  fine,  and  add  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter,  washed.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
sixteen  eggs,  and  add  to  them  the  other  ingreditmts,  well  mixed 
and  beaten  together.  Bake  in  a  puff-paste.  For  eight  or  ten 
persons. — Mrs,  F, 

Orange  Pudding, 

Put  two  oranges  and  two  lemons  into  five  quai-ts  of  water. 
Boil  them  till  the  rinds  are  tender,  then  take  them  out,  slice 
them  thin,  and  take  out  the  seed.  Put  a  pound  of  sugar  into 
a  pint  of  water.  When  it  boils,  slice  into  it  twelve  pippins, 
sliced  and  coined.  Lay  in  the  lemons  and  oranges ;  stew  them 
tender.     Cover  the  dish  with  puff-paste.     Put  in  the  fruit  care 


880  UDfON  PUDDING. 

fully,  in  altemato  layers.     Pour  over  the  syrup,  put  some  slipe 
of  paste  across  it,  and  bake  it. — Mrs.  E. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

\  pound  sugar. 

\  pound  butter,  well  creamed. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs. 
Pour  this  mixture  into  a  rich  crust  of  pastry,  after  addiiij; 
the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.     Then  partially  bake  it.     Beat 
the  whites  very  stiff,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  sugar  for  each  egg 
Then  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  pour  this  m&nngue  over  the 
pudding  and  brown  it  quickly. — Mtb,  L  2>. 

Lemon  Puddvng, 

\  pound  butter. 

f  pound  sugar. 

6  eggs, 

\  pint  milk. 

3  lemons,  juice  and  rind. — JI/m8  JE.  TP. 

Lemon  Pudding, 

6  eggs. 

f  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  butter. 
Juice  of  two  lemons. 
Pour  on  the  butter  boiling  hot. — Mrs.  E,  A 

Lemon  Pudding. 

6  eggs. 

7  tablespoonfuls  sugai 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  pint  of  buttermilk. 
Season  with  extract  of  lemon,  beat  well  and  bake  in  a  omst. 
— 3fr8,  A.  G, 


LEMON  h£bINGUE — OOOOANUT  PUDOINO.  381 

Lbhon  M^RiKaus. 

One  pint  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  a  quart  of  new  luilk. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs. 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Beat  these  ingredieots  light  and  bake  as  custard.  Then 
spread  on  fruit  jelly  or  stewed  apples  (fresh).  Froth  the  whites 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  juice  of  the  lemon. 
Spread  over  the  top  and  brown. — Mr8.  Col.  3. 

Lefmon  Mhingue. 

The  rind  of  two  small  lemons  and  the  juice  of  one. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 
^  cup  butter. 

^  cup  cream  (or  sweet  milk). 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
Leave  out  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  which  must  be  mixed  with 
sugar  and  put  on  top  of  the  pudding  just  before  it  is  done. 
Bake  in  a  rich  paste. — Mrs,  H. 

Almond  Pudding. 

Blanch  a  pound  of  almonds,  pound  them  with  rose  water  to 
prevent  their  oiling;  mix  with  them  four  crackers,  pounded, 
six  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  wine.  Bake  on  a 
crust.— Jfr*.  Dr.  T.  W.' 

COOOANUT   PUDDINO. 

Two  grated  cocoanuts. 

1  pound  sugar. 

\  pound  butter. 

8  eggs,  leaving  out  4  whites. 
Beat  the  eggs  separately  and  to  the  yolks  add  the  butter, 
sugar,  oocoanut,  and  whites.     Add  a  little  wine  or  brandy,  if 
you  like.     Bake  in  tins  lined  with  pastry. — Mrs.  D.  JR. 


883  OOOOANUT  PCTDDINQ— OHOOOLATB  PC7DDIN(». 

CocoamU  jPudding, 

One-half  pound  butter,  one-half  pound  sugar,  a  whole  oocoar 
nut  gi*ated,  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  leaving  out  two  whites 
Bake  in  plates  with  pastry  underneath.     The  oven  must  not  be 
too  hot.  — Jlfr«.  Z  H[ 

Cococmut  Pwiding. 
Stir  together, 

^  pound  butter, 
i  pound  sugar. 
A  glass  of  wine. 

6  eggs  (beaten  light). 

When  all  these  ingredients  have  been  stirred  together  till 
lighty  add  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  mixed  with  a  litde 
stale  oake. — Mr9,  E,  T. 

CocoamU  Pudding, 

1  pound  sugar. 

\  pound  butter. 

f  pound  grated  cocoanut. 

\  pint  cream. 

7  whole  eggs,  or  9  whites  and  2  yolks. 
1  lemon. 

Half  a  nutmeg. 
Stir  butter  and  sugar  as  for  cake.     Beat  eggs  well.     Bake 
some  time. — Mrs,  E.  G, 

Cocoanut  Pudding, 

One  grated  cocoanut,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  melted  butter,  and  six  eggs. — Mrs,  M,  S.  C, 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Scrape  fine  three  ounces  of  chocolate.  Add  to  it  a  teaspoouful 
of  powdered  nutmeg  and  one  of  cinnamon.  Put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  licli  milk,  Stirling  it  well. 
Cover  it  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.     Tlien  remove  the  lid,  stii 


GHOOOLATS  PUDDING QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS.    888 

Up  the  chocolate  from  the  bottom  and  press  out  the  lumps. 
When  dissolved  and  smooth,  put  it  on  the  fire  again.  Next  stir 
in,  gradually  and  while  it  is  boiling  hot,  half  a  pound  white 
sugar.  Set  it  away  to  cool.  Beat  six  or  eight  eggs  very  light. 
Pour  into  the  pan  of  chocolate  when  quite  cold.  Stir  the  whole 
very  hard.  Put  it  in  an  oven  and  bake  well.  It  will  bake  best 
by  being  put  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.     Eat  cold. — Mrs,  •/*.  £, 

ChoeokUe  Padding. 

1  qiiart  milk. 

3  eggs. 
Sugar  to  taste. 

2  tablespoonfnls  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  milk. 

4  tablespoonfnls  choralate 

Set  the  milk  on  the  fire,  and  just  before  it  boils  put  in  the 
e^s,  sugar,  and  corn-starch.  Let  it  boil  about  a  minute,  then 
take  it  off  the  fire  and  add  the  chocolate. 

Chocolate  M ^rinoue. 

One  quart  milk  and  yolks  of  four  eggs,  made  into  custard. 
Three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  chocolate,  put  into  a  cup  of 
warm  water.  One  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.  Sweeten  to 
your  taste  and  let  all  boil  together.  Then  put  it  in  a  baking- 
dish,  and  when  done,  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of 
eggs  and  white  sugar.     Put  in  the  oven  again  to  brown,  a  few 

minutes. — Mrs.  S. 

Oabomel  Pudding. 

Cream  together  one  cupful  of  butter,  and  one  of  sugar.  Add 
five  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately)  and  one  cupful 
of  preserved  damsons,  removing  the  seed.  Beat  all  together 
very  light  and  season  with  a  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Bake  on  pas- 
try.— Mrs,  A,  D. 

QuBBN  OP  Puddings. 

Take  slices  of  sponge  cake  and  spread  with  preserves  or  jelly. 
Pla<«  them  in  a  deep  dish.     Make  a  cuRtard  with  one  quart  of 


884  QUBEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

milk  and  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Sweeten  and  season  to  the  taste 
and  pour  over  the  cake.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  adding  five  or 
fdx  spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  seasoning  with  lemon.  Spread  this 
over  the  top  of  the  pudding  and  bake  a  very  light  brown. — J/r». 

M.D. 

Queen  of  Puddmgs. 

1  pint  bread  crumbs. 

1  quart  milk. 

1^  cupful  of  sugar. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  teacup  of  butter,  well  creamed. 

Grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Bake  until  done,  but  not  watery.  Whip  the  whites  of  the 
four  eggs  (above  mentioned)  very  stiff  and  beat  into  a  teacup 
of  sugar,  into  which  has  been  strained  the  juice  of  the  lemon 
aforesaid.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  after  it  has 
slightly  cooked,  a  layer  of  jelly  or  sweetmeats.  Then  pour  over 
it  the  dressing  of  eggs,  sugar,  and  lemon,  and  set  it  in  the  oven 
to  brown. — Mrs,  B.  J'.  JB. 

Queen  of  Puddings, 

1^  cupful  white  sugar. 

2  cupfuls  fine  dry  bread  crumbs. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs. 

I  tablespoonful  of  butter,  flavored  to  taste. 

1  quart  fresh,  rich  milk. 

i  cup  jelly  or  jam. 
Rub  the  butter  into  a  cupful  of  the  sugar,  and  cream  these 
together,  with  the  yolks  beaten  very  light.  The  bread  crumbs 
soaked  in  the  milk  come  next,  then  the  seasoning.  Bake  this 
in  a  large  butter  dish,  but  two-thirds  full,  till  the  custard  is 
**  set."  Spread  over  the  top  of  this  a  layer  of  jam  or  jelly  and 
cover  this  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whipped  whites  and  the 
half  cupful  of  sugar.  Bake  till  the  m6ringue  begins  to  color. 
-    Mrs,  D,  C, 


QITBBN   OF   PUDDINGS — ^TAPTOOA    PUDDING.  386 

QiLeen  of  Pvddings. 

Saturate  the  crumbs  of  a  loaf  of  bread  with  a  quart  of  rich 
milk.  Add  to  this  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar.  Beat  well  together,  sea- 
son to  taste,  and  when  well  stirred,  put  it  on  to  bake.  When 
nearly  done,  spread  over  it  a  layer  of  fruit  jam  or  jelly  and  whites 
of  the  eggs  well  beaten.     Sift  sugar  on  top  and  bake. — Mr8,  J, 

r.  a. 

Meringtie  Pudding  or  Qaeen  of  Puddings. 

Fill  a  baking  dish  within  one  and  a  half  inch  of  the  top  with 
slices  of  sponge  cake,  buttered  slightly  on  both  sides,  scattering 
between  the  slices,  seeded  raisins  (about  half  a  pound).  Over 
this  pour  a  custard  made  of  a  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggs,  sweetened  to  the  taste. 

As  soon  as  it  has  baked  a  light  brown,  make  an  icing  of  the 
eight  whites  and  put  it  on  top.  Set  again  in  the  oven  to  brown 
a  little.     Eat  with  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar. — Mrs.  It,  P. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

The  yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

1  tables]>oonful  of  sugar. 
Soak  the  tapioca  over  night  or  several  hours  in  a  little  water, 
boil  the  milk  and  turn  over  the  tapioca  and  when  it  is  blood- 
warm,  add  the  sugar  and  the  eggs  well  beaten,  flavor  the  pud- 
ding with  lemon  or  rose  water.  Bake  it  about  an  hour.  After 
it  has  cooled  a  little  add  the  two  remaining  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  one-half  pound  of  white  sugar  beaten  together  for  frosting. 
This  serves  as  sauce  for  the  pudding. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

Tapioca  Pudding, 

Wash  a  teacup  of  tapioca  in  warm  water  and  let  it  stand 
half  an  hour.     Then  stir  in  a  custard  made  of  a  quart  of  milk, 

m 


886  TAPIOOA   PUDDING-- BNOW  PUDDIKO. 

four  eggSy  a  smaU  piece  of  butter,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Bake 
about  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Stir  two  separate  times  from  the 
bottom,  whilst  baking. — Mrs,  Dr.  S. 

Tapioca  Pudding  unth  Apples. 

Soak  a  cupful  of  tapioca  in  three  cupfuls  of  water,  four  or 
tive  hours,  where  it  will  be  warm,  but  not  cook.  Peel  and  core 
six  apples  and  stew  till  tender.  Put  them  in  a  pudding-disli, 
filling  tlie  holes  (from  which  the  cores  were  extracted)  with 
sugar  and  nutmeg  or  grated  lemon  peel.  Then  pour  over  them 
the  soaked  tapioca,  slightly  sweetened  and  bake  thi-ee-quarters 
of  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. — Jifrs. 
E.  W. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Let  a  box  of  gelatine  stand  one  hour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water. 
Then  add  two  pints  of  boiling  water,  four  cupfuls  of  crushed 
sugar,  the  juice  of  four  lemons  and  the  rind  of  the  same,  pared 
thin.  (The  latter  must,  however,  be  taken  out  when  the  pud- 
ding begins  to  congeal.) 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Then  beat  all  together  till  it  becomes  a 
stiff  froth. 

Make  the  six  yolks  into  a  custard  flavored  with  vanilla  or 
nutmeg  and  pour  over  the  pudding  after  it  has  been  turned  out 
of  the  mould. — Mrs.  H,  «7.  B, 

* 

Snow  Pudding. 

Dissolve  one-half  box  gelatire  in  one  pint  hot  water.  Let  it 
stand  long  enough  to  cool  a  little  but  not  to  congeal.  Then  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Beat  all  to  a  stiff  froth  and  pour  into  moulds.  Serve  with  a 
custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  a  pint  rf  milk  season- 
ed with  vanilla, — Mrs,  Dr,  P,  O. 


SNOW  FUDDINQ — JKLLY  BOLL.  38? 

Snow  Pudding. 

Soak  a  half  box  of  gelatine  in  a  half  pint  of  cold  water,  all 
night.  In  the  morning,  add  the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons 
and  the  juice  of  one,  three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar  and  a  half 
pint  of  boiling  water.  Strain  into  a  deep  vessel  and  add  the 
unbeaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Beat  constantly  for  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour,  then  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  With  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  make  a  pint  of  custard  flavored  with  vanilla  or  i-ose- 
water,  to  put  around  the  pudding,  when  congealed. — JtTrs,  A.  JB. 

Cake  Pudding. 

Take  a  moderate  sized  baking-dish,  around  which  lay  small 
sponge  cakes,  split  and  buttered  on  both  sides.  Spread  them  with 
marmalade  or  preserves  on  the  inside.  Put  in  the  centre  of  the 
dish  pieces  of  cake  buttered  and  spread  with  preserves  on  both 
sides.  Leave  room  for  a  custard,  to  be  made,  seasoned  and 
poured  over  the  pudding  before  baking.  Eat  hot  with  hot  sauce. 
—Mrs,  V.  E.L 

Preserve  Pudding. 

1  cupful  preserves. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
Nearly  a  cupful  butter. 
6  eggs. 
Bake  in  pashy. — Mrs,  E.  B, 

J^UjY  Roll. 

Seggs. 

1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  milk. 
Bake  in  pie-pans,  spread  with  acid  jelly,  roll  up  in  a  compact 
form. — Mrs,  R, 


388      bwbbtheat  pudding — tbajsspabjsst  pudding. 

Sweetmeat  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  10  eggs. 

Whites  of  2. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  beaten  with  the  sugar,  and  po  ired 

over  pastry,  on  which  is  placed  a  layer  of  sweetueats  and  a 

layer  of  some  other  preserves.     Any  two  kinds  of  preserves 

may  be  used. — Mrs. ^. 

StJoeetmecU  Puddvng. 

\  pound  of  sugar. 

\  pound  of  butter. 

Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon. 

8  eggs. 
Mix  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  the  sugar.  Melt  the  butter 
and  pour  into  the  mixture.  Line  a  dish  with  rich  pastry,  on 
which  lay  sweetmeats,  damson,  or  peach  preserves,  or  any  other 
kind  that  may  be  convenient.  On  this,  place  one  layer  of  the 
mixture  above  mentioned,  then  another  of  sweetmeats.  Put  a 
layer  of  the  mixture  on  top,  and  bake. 

Cheese-cake  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  eight  fresh  eggs,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  good 
brown  sugar,  and  the  same  of  butter,  well  creamed  together. 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  mix  all  the  ingredients  well ;  season  with 
nutmeg  or  extract  of  lemon ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  good  brandy 
or  rum.     Bake  in  a  pastry,  in  small  tins  or  plates. — Mrs,  Dr. 

P.  a 

Transparent  Pudding. 

8  eggs,  beaten  very  light 
-}■  pound  of  sugar. 
^  pound  of  butter. 

Nutmeg,  mace,  or  any  spice  for  flavoring. 
Put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  tin  pan,  stirring  constantly  till  it  begimr 


TRAHBPARENT  PUDDING BAGO  PUDDING.      389 

to  thicken.     When  cool,  pour  it  over  a  rich  paste,  and  bake 
over  a  moderate  fire.     Add  citron,  if  you  like. — Mr8.  Dr,  E, 

Traneparent  Pudding, 

i  pound  of  sugar. 

^  pound  of  butter. 

Dessertspoonful  of  rose  water. 

Stir  well  tiU  light. 
Beat  four  eggs  very  light,  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients. 
Butter  the  baking-dish,  line  with  stale  cake,  sliced  thin,  which 
you  may  cover  with  sweetmeats  of  any  kind.     Pour  the  mixt- 
ure on,  and  bake  for  nearly  an  hour. — Mrs.  J.  H, 

TVanaparent  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  10  eggs ;  whites  of  2. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

^  pound  of  butter. 

Season  with  nutmeg. 
Make  pastry,  on  which  put  a  layer  of  citron  or  any  other 
fruit.  Pour  the  mixture  over  it  and  bake.  Beat  the  i-eniain- 
ing  whites  to  a  froth.  Add  a  teacup  of  powdered  sugar,  flavor 
to  taste,  and  pour  over  the  top  of  the  pudding  after  baking. 
Then  put  it  again  in  the  stove,  a  few  minutes,  to  brown. — 
Mrs.  E. 

Abrow-root  Pudding. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  make  it  into  a  thick  batter  with 
arrow-root.  Add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  little 
grated  lemon  peel.  Bake  it  nicely  in  a  pastry.  When  done, 
stick  slips  of  citron  all  over  the  top,  and  pour  over  it  the  whites 
of  the  six  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  sweetened  with  three  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  flavored  to  the  taste. — Mrs.  8.  T. 

Sago  Pudding. 
Boil  one  cupful  of  sago  in  a  quart  of  water.     Pare  apples,  put 


390  BA.GO  PUDDING — SIPPET  PUDDING. 

them  in  a  dish  and  stew  a  little.  Pour  the  sago  over  them, 
and  bake  thirty  minutes.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  the  taste. — 
Mra,  A,  B. 

Sctgo  Pvdding, 

Boil  one  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk  with  four  spoonfuls  of 
sagOy  nicely  washed  and  picked.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  ;  flavor 
with  lemon  peel,  cinnamon,  and  mace.  Mix  all,  and  bake  slowly 
in  a  pasta — Mtm,  V.  P.  M. 

Bread  Pudding. 

Slice  some  stale  bread,  omitting  the  crust.  Butter  it  moder- 
ately thick.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  cover  the  bottom  with 
slices  of  bread,  over  which  put  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  preserved 
fruit.  (Acid  fruits  are  best.)  Cover  all  with  a  light  layer  of 
brown  sugar.  Make  a  rich  cuscard,  allowing  four  eggs  to  a 
pint  of  milk.  Pour  it  over  the  pudding,  and  bake  an  hour. 
Grate  nutmeg  over  it,  when  done. — Mrs.  Col.  jS. 

Custard  Pudding. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread.  Butter  them,  and  lay  them  in  a 
baking-dish.  Mix  a  cold  custard  of  three  pints  of  rnilk^  the 
yolks  of  eight  or  ten  eggs,  beaten  light ;  sweeten  to  your  taste  ; 
pour  over  the  bread ;  bake,  and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  Froth  and 
sweeten  the  whites,  pour  them  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and 
then  put  it  in  the  stove  a  few  minutes  more  to  brown  on  top. — 

jfrs.  a. 

Sippet  Pudding. 

Butter  a  baking-dish,  cut  slices  of  light  bread  very  thin, 
buttering  them  before  cutting.  Put  them  in  the  dish,  strewing 
over  each  separate  layer,  currants,  citron,  raisins,  and  sugar. 
When  the  dish  is  full,  pour  over  it  an  unboiled  custard  of  milk 
and  eggs,  sweetened  to  the  taste.  Saturate  the  bread  com- 
pletely with  this,  then  pour  on  a  glass  of  brandy  and  bake  a 
light  brown.  This  pudding  is  very  nice  made  of  stale  pound  oi 
sponge  cake  instead  of  light  bread.-  -Mrs.  M,  C.  C. 


SPENOE's  PUDDINO FRUIT   PUDDING.  391 

Mbs.  Spencers  Pudding.     {Original,) 

One  pint  grated  bread  crumbs  put  into  one  quart  fresh  sweet 
milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  very  light.  Add  one  tea- 
cup of  sugar  to  them.  Stir  in  the  milk  and  crumbs  and  add 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  clipped  raisins  and  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  sliced  citron.     Season  with  mace.     Bake  nicely. 

Whip  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  to  a  stifi'  froth.     Add  one 
teacup  pulverized  sugar  and  season  with  extract  of  vanilla 
Put  this  over  the  pudding  and  set  in  the  stove  again  to  brown 
it  slightly.     Serve  hot  with  a  rich  sa\ice  made  of  sugar  and 
butter  seasoned  with  nutmeg  and  Madeira  wine. 

Teacup  Pudding. 

1  teacup  grated  bread. 

1  teacup  raisins. 

1  teacup  chopped  apples. 

1  teacup  chopped  suet. 

3  eggs. 

1  gill  of  cream. 

Wine  glass  of  brandy. 

Spice  and  sugar  to  taste. — 3fr8.  Dr.  J\ 

French  Pudding. 

Grate  one  pint  stale  bread.  Pour  over  it  one  quart  fresh 
milky  yolks  of  four  eggs,  rind  of  one  lemon  and  part  of  juice, 
one  teacup  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  all 
well,  put  in  a  pudding-dish  and  bake  until  it  looks  like  custard. 
Then  set  it  to  cool,  after  which  spread  the  top  with  jelly  or  pre- 
serves. Beat  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding 
the  remaining  juice  of  the  lemon  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Spread  this  on  top  the  preserves,  then  put  the  pudding 
again  in  the  oven  and  bake  a  light  brown. — 3/"r«.  C. 

Fruit  Pudding. 

1  pint  grated  bread  crumbs. 
1  poimd  raisins. 


392   PUDDIltO  WITHOUT  MILK  OR  BG  v>8— OB  ACKER  FUDDINO. 

f  pound  suot  chopped  fine. 
^  pound  sugar. 
^  pint  cho])ped  apples. 
Yolks  of  tliree  eggn,  well  beaten. 
Pour  over  the  top  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs,  froti  «ed  and 
sweetened      Bake  an  hour. — Mrs. 

Pudding  without  Milk  or  Egos. 

Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  alternate  layers  of  grated 
broad)  and  finely  chopped  apples  seasoned  with  brown  sugar, 
bits  of  butter  and  allspice.  Pour  over  it  a  pint  of  wine  and 
water  mixed.  Let  the  top  layer  be  bread  crumbs^  and  bake  one 
hour. — Mis8  N". 

Marrow  Pudding. 

Grate  a  large  loaf  of  bread  and  pour  on  the  crumbs  a  pint  of 
rich  milk,  boiling  hot.  When  cold,  add  four  eggs,  a  pound  of 
beef  marrow,  sliced  thin,  a  gill  of  brandy  with  sugar  and  nut- 
meg to  your  taste.  Mix  all  well  together  and  bake  it.  When 
done  stick  slices  of  citron  on  the  top.  You  may  make  a  boiled 
pudding  of  this,  if  you  prefer.  —  Mrs.  K. 

Original  Pudding. 

Crumb  up  four  rolls.  Pour  over  them  a  quart  of  fresh  milk 
at  the  breakfast  table.  A  half  hour  before  dinner,  beat  up 
separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs.  After  beating, 
put  them  together  and  stir  them  up.  Take  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  cut  it  in  bits  and  throw  it  on  top. 

Sauce.  Throw  in  a  bowl,  a  tablespoonful  of  floxir  and  a  large 
piece  of  butter.  Cream  it  round  and  round.  Add  two  teacups 
of  sugar,  one  wine-gla.ss  of  -ight  wine,  and  nutmeg,  and  boil  up.  — 
Miss  K  JS. 

CrA  ;KER    Pl'DDlNO. 

Put  into  a  deep  dish  six  or  eight  large  soda  crackei'S.  Add  a 
large  lump  of  butter  and  a  teacup  of  sugar.     Grate  the  rind  of 


BIGS  PUDDING.  393 

two  lemons  and  squeeze  the  juice  over  the  crackers.  Then  pour 
boiling  water  all  over  them,  and  allow  them  to  stand  till  they 
have  absorbed  it  and  become  soft.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  three  eggs  separately.  Stir  them  gently  into  the  crackers. 
Butter  a  deep  dish  and  pour  in  the  mixture,  baking  it  a  nice 
brown.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add  sugar  to  the  eggs  before  mix 
ing  them. — Mrs,  M.  C.  C. 

HiCE    PUDD1K». 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  milk,  till  quite  tender.  Then 
mash  the  grains  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  melted  butter,  half  a  nut- 
meg, six  eggs,  a  gill  of  wine,  and  some  grated  lemon  peel.  Bake 
it  in  a  paste.  For  a  change,  it  may  be  boiled,  and  eaten  with 
butter,  sugar,  and  wine. — Mrs.  JE. 

Rice  Pudding, 

Sweeten  three  pints  of  sweet  milk,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla.  Put  in  this  a  small  cupful  of  raw  rice,  thoroughly 
wajshed.     Bake,  and  serve  cold. — Mrs,  H.  8. 

nice  Piidding. 

3  capfuls  boiled  rice. 

6  eggs. 

1^  cupful  sugar. 

1^  pint  milk. 

1  wine-glassful  wine  and  brandy. 

1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg. — Mrs.  Col,  8, 

Rice  Pudding, 

Boil  a  cup  of  rice  till  nearly  done,  then  add  a  pint  of  milk. 
When  perfectly  done,  mash,  and,  while  hot,  add  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  six  fresh  eggs,  beaten  till  light 
17* 


894  MOR  PUDDINO— 8WBBT  1»0T\T0  PUDDING. 

fBeat  the  sugar  with  the  eggs.)  Season  with  wiiie  or  brandy^ 
and  one  grated  nutmeg.  Lemon  is  another  good  seasoning  for 
it.  Put  in  rich  puff  paste,  and  bake  till  a  light  brown. — Mr9 
Dr.  R,  W.  W. 

Rice  Pudding. 

Boil  one  oup  of  rice  in  one  quart  of  milk.  Add  six  eggs  aiitl 
a  small  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  tlie 
taste,  and  bake. — Mrs.  R, 

Irish  Potato  Pudding. 

1  pound  mashed  Irish  potatoes. 

1  pound  sugar. 

2  cupfuls  butter,  well  creamed. 
6  eggs. 

1  teacup  cream. 
1  wine-glassful  brandy. 
Stir   th(i  ingredients  thoroughly  together.     Bake  in  pastrj 
without  tops. — Mre,  Dr.  «/!  I^.  G. 

SwEBT  Potato  Pudding. 

1  quart  grated  sweet  potatoes. 
10  eggs,  well  beaten. 

3  cupfuls  sugar. 
1  cupful  flour. 

1  cupful  butter. 
1  quart  milk. 
Bake  slowly  in  a  pan.     Serve  with  sauce. — Afrs,  G.  A.  !i. 

iSweet  Potato  Pudding, 

Grate  three  or  four  large  sweet  potatoes  and  put  them  imme- 
diately in  three  pints  of  sweet  milk  to  prevent  them  from  turn- 
ing dark.  Beat  six  eggs  light,  add  four  ounces  melted  butter, 
and  mix  well  with  ])otatoes  and  milk.  Add  eight  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  and  season  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake  without 
a  crust. — Mrs.  W.  0.  R. 


BWKBT  PCJTATO  PUDDING — ^MOLASSKS  PITDDINO.         395 

Svoeet  Potato  Pudding, 

Boil  one  and  a  half  pounds  potatoes  very  tender.  Add  half 
a  pound  butter,  and  rub  both  together  through  a  sieve.  Then 
add  a  small  cupful  milk,  six  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupful  sugar, 
l)eat  all  together  and  add  a  little  salt,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Then  beat  again,  and  prepare  pastry.  Bake  twenty 
minutes.  It  may  be  baked  without  pastry.  Irish  potato  pud- 
ding may  be  made  by  the  same  reci}>e. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

Cream  Pudding. 

Beat  six  eggs  to  a  froth  and  stir  into  them  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  sugar  and  the  gratud  rind  of  a  lemon.  Mix  one  pint  milk, 
one  pound  flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  salt.  Add  eggs  and 
sugar.  Just  before  baking,  add  a  pint  of  thick  cream.  Bake 
in  caps  or  pudding  dishes. — Mrs,  Col,  Wi 

Tyler  Pudding. 

4  eggs. 

3  cupfuls  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter,  washed  and  melted. 
1  oiipful  cream,  seasoned  with  lemon. 
Bake  in  a  paste. — Mrs,  C.  JV, 

Molasses  Pudding. 

1  cupful  molasses. 
^  cupful  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
1  cup  not  quite  full  of  buttermilk. 
3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Flour  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cake  batter.     If  you  wish 
to  eat  it  cold,  add  another  cup  of  sugar.     Bake  it  quickly. — Mrs, 

M.  3.  a 

Mbl€U8es  Pudding, 

1  teacup  sugar. 
1  teacup  butter. 


896  1COLA88E8  PUDDING — SNOWBALL  PUDDINO. 

2  teacups  znolasRes. 
2  teacups  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 
1  teaspoouful  soda  dissolved  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  buttermilk 
Eat  witli  sauce.     Excellent. 

Molassw  Ihidditig, 

9  eggs. 

4  cupfuls  molasses. 
1  teacup  butter. 
Bake  in  a  paste. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

Beat  to  a  cream  one  large  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  and  a  half 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard  and  butter  mixed.  Stir  in  one  well 
beaten  egg,  one  large  cup  of  buttermilk  with  soda  dissolved  in 
it.  Add  nutmeg  to  the  taste.  Take  one  pint  of  flour  and  rub 
into  it,  dry,  two  tablespoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.  Then  add  the 
other  ingredients.  Bake  three* quarters  of  an  hour  and  serve 
with  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  F. 

Texas  Pudding. 

3  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately). 
3  cupfuls  sugar. 
1  cupful  butter. 
1  cupful  sweet  milk. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.     Bake  in  a  crust.     This  will  611 
three  pie-plates. — Mrs.  McN. 

Snowball  Pudding. 

Boil  one  quart  of  rich  milk  and  then  thicken  it  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  or  arrow-root.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
with  three  tablespoonfiils  of  white  sugar.  Then  pour  the  milk 
slowly  into  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stirring  all  the  time.     Pour  this 


THIOKBNED  MILK  PUDDINQ ^WASHINOTON  PUDDING.     397 

custard  into  a  pudding  dish  and  brown  it  slightly.  Beat  up  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  four  Uiblespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
flavoring  with  lemon.  Drop  it  on  the  custard  (when  browned) 
in  the  form  of  balls,  as  large  as  an  egg.  Set  it  back  in  the  stove 
to  brown  a  little. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

Thickened  Milk  Pudding. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  one-half  pint  of  water.  Thicken 
with  one  pint  of  flour,  and  stir  in  three  ounces  butter,  while 
warm.  When  cold,  add  nine  eggs  (well  beaten),  one  pound 
sugar,  one  wine-glassful  wine,  and  powdered  cinnamon  and 
mace  to  your  taste. — Mrs.  R, 

Delicious  Hasty  Pudding. 

Seven  eggs  beaten  separately.  Add  to  the  yolks  gi^adually 
ten  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  alternately  with  a  quart  of 
milk  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  till  pex*fectly  smooth. 
Then  add  the  whites,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Eat  with  nun's  butter  or  wine  sauce. — Mrs, 
P.McQ. 

Feather  Pudding. 

2  cupfuls  flour. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  sweet  milk, 
legg. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  soda. 
Season  with  nutmeg  and  eat  with  sauce. — Mr8,  D.   0.  K. 

Washington  Pudding. 

6  eggs  (well  beaten). 
\  pound  butter. 
\  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  marmalade. 


398  ONB  aoo  pupdino — ^viboikia.  puddino. 

Beiit  well  together,  season  with  nutmegs  and  bake  in  a  (taste. 
—Mr8.  Dr.  & 

One  Ego  Pudding. 

legg. 

1  cupful  sugar. 

1  cupful  milk. 

2  cupfuis  flour. 

1  tablespoouful  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonful  s  cream  of  tartar. 
Eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

Delicious  Pudding. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  very  light.  Stir  in  altei*natelj 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  the 
batter.  Then  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Butter  the  baking  dish  or  cups,  fill  them  a  little 
more  than  half  full,  and  bake  quickly.  Eat  with  wine  sauce. 
Make  this  pudding  half  an  hour  before  dinner,  as  it  must  be 
eaten  as  soon  a«  done. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Balloons. 

6  eggs. 

7  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
1  quart  of  milk. 

1  teacup  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoouful  of  butter. 

1  tablespoouful  of  lard. 
Cream  the  butter  and  lard  with  the  flour.     Beat  the  eggs 
and  sugar  together.     Mix  the  milk  in  gradually,  bake  quickly, 
and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  Dr,  JE. 

Virginia  Pudding. 
Scald  one  quart  of  milk.     Pour  it  on  three  tablespoonfuls  of 


EXTRA  FINE  PUDDING — ^EXCELLENT  BATfEB  PUDDING.  399 

sifted  flour.     Add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  the  whites  of  two,  and 
the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Sauce. — The  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  a 
full  cup  of  sugar,  then  a  wine-glass  of  wine  and  the  juice  of  a 
lemon.  Pour  over  the  pudding  just  as  you  send  it  to  the 
table.— JfiM  E.  S. 

Extra  Fine  Pudding. 

Make  a  batter  of  two  teacupfuls  of  flour  and  four  of  milk. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs  8epai*ately.  Then  mix 
all  together  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  pan  and  serve  witli  wine  sauca — Mrs.  McO, 

Superior  Pudding. 

4  eggs. 

1  quai't  of  milk. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

Beat  the  sugar,  flour,  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  together,  with 
one  cup  of  the  milk,  scald  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  put 
the  above  in  it  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  little  sugar,  spread  on 
top  of  the  pudding,  and  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  D,  C.  K. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. 

Take  nearly  one  pint  sifted  meal  and  make  into  a  mush. 
Pour  over  it  one  quart  of  boiled  sweet  milk.  Add  one  gill  of 
molasses,  one  gill  of  sugar,  six  eggs  beaten  separately,  half  a 
pint  chopped  suet.  If  you  like,  add  a  few  currants,  raisins,  oi 
a  little  citron.    Bake  nearly  two  hours.    Eat  with  sauce. — Mv9. 

J.  A.  B. 

Excellent  Batter  Pudding. 

1  quart  flour. 

7  eggs. 

\  oupful  melted  butter. 


400  FUFF  FUDDINa— FOOS  MAN's  PUDDING. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water. 

2  teaspooufuis  cream  of  tartar,  also  dissolved. 

Enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  batter  the  oonaistencj  oi 
Bpoiige  cake  batter.  Bake  in  a  mould  and  eat  with  brandj 
sauce. — Mrs,  M,  G.  C. 

Puff  Pudding. 

10  eggs  (beaten  separately). 

10  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour. 

1  quart  milk. 

A  little  salt. 
Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiil'  froth.     Then  put  the  flour  with  the 
yolks,  then  add  the  milk  and  lastly  the  whites,  well  beaten. 
Eat  with  cold  or  hot  sauce. — Mrs,  D,  G.  K, 

Penny  Pudding. 

Beat  five  eggs  very  light.     Mix  with  Ave  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  large  spoonful  of  butter  and  one  pint  of  milk, 
with  sauce. — Mrs,  A,  T, 

Economical  Pudding. 

1  cup  chopped  suet. 
1  cupful  golden  syrup. 

1  cupful  milk. 

2  cupfuls  chopped  raisins. 

3  cupfuls  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  (put  in  the  milk). 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  put  in  the  dry  flour. 
Boil  three  hours  and  a  half. — Miss  E,  T. 

Poor  Man's  Pudding. 

6  eggs. 

1  pint  sour  cream. 

1  cupful  melted  butter. 

1^  cupful  sugar. 


PLAIN  PUDDING — WINS  8AUCS.  Ml 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
^  nutmeg. 
Put  the  butter  in  after  the  flour.     Make  the  consistency  oi 
pound  cake  batter. — Mrs.  A.  3, 

Plain  Pudding. 

1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Put  chopped  apples  or  peaches  in  the  batter  and  bake.     Eat 
with  sauce.  — Mrs,  A,  H, 


-•♦•- 


PUDDING   SAUCES. 

WiNB  Sauce. 

Dissolve  one  pound  sugar  in  a  little  water  Boil  till  nearly 
candied.  A.dd  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  just  before 
taking  it  ofl*  the  fire,  and  stir  in  wine  and  nutmeg  to  your  taste, 
after  taking  it  off. — Mtb.  JR. 

Wine  Sauce, 

Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  sugar  and  two  ot 
Madeira  wine  together,  for  a  large  pudding.  Put  a  little  <rater 
in  the  stewpan  and  let  it  boil.  Boll  the  butter  in  a  little  flour, 
and  stir  it  in  the  boiling  water  quickly.  Then  add  the  sugar, 
and  lastly  the  wine. — Mrs.  T. 

Wine  Somce. 

One-half  pound  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  well  and 

creamed  with  the  butter ;  nine  tablespoonfuls  nice  brown  sugar ; 

two  glasses  of  wine.    Let  it  simmer  on  the  fire  a  short  time.    Grate 

nutmeg  on  it  when  you  fiour  it  into  the  sauce-bowl. — Mrs.  T, 

34 


402  BBA2a>T  6AUOB — FCDDINQ  SAUOB. 

Brandy  Sauce. 

Cream  together  one-qnarter  pound  fresh  butter,  and  one 
quarter  pound  pulverized  white  sugar.  Mix  with  it  one  gill  of 
lemon  brandy,  or  half  the  quantity  of  brandy  ;  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated.  Stir  it  slowly  into  half  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  and  afler  letting  it  simmor  a  moment,  pour 
into  a  warm  sauce  tureen. — Miss  M.  P, 

French  Sauce. 

Cream  half  a  pound  butter,  and  stir  in  half  a  pound  sugar. 
Then  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  gill  of  wine.  Put  it  on  the 
fire  ;  stir  till  it  simmers.  Grate  nutmeg  over  it,  after  taking  it 
off  the  fire.— Jf?7r.  R  D. 

A  Nice  Sauce  for  Puddings. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter ;  eight  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar ; 
one  nutmeg  (grated),  the  white  of  one  egg. 

The  butter  must  be  creamed  and  the  sugar  beaten  into  it,  then 
^0  6gS*  ^®  wine  poured  gently  in  and  stirred  till  the  sauce 
is  cold,  then  grate  the  nutmeg.  Make  it  in  a  common  sauce 
tureen,  on  the  hearth,  stirring  all  the  while.  Do  not  let  it  boil. 
-^Mrs.  M.  E.  J.  B. 

Rich  Sauce  for  Puddings. 

One  pint  cream ;  half  pound  sugar ;  one  tablespoonful  butter ; 
one  glass  of  wine.  Season  to  the  taste.  Do  not  let  it  boil. — 
Miss  E.  P. 

Sauce  for  Pudding. 

Two  large  cupfuls  brown  sugar ;  one  large  cupful  butter ;  one 
teacup  wine ;  a  little  rose  water.  Boil  the  sugar  and  wine 
together.     Then  add   the  butter  and  grated  nutmeg. — Mrs. 

McG. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

One  cupful  cream,  from  morning's  milk ;  two  cupfuls  sugar ; 
one  egg,  well  beaten ;  one  tablespoonful  butter;  one  teaspoonful 


GOLD   8AU0B — LEMON  8AU0E.  403 

corn-starch.     Boil  all  together  till  a  thick  syrup.     Take  off  the 
fire  and  add  grated  nutmeg  and  a  glass  of  wine. — Mrs,  S,  2\ 

Cold  Sauce. 
Whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     Sweeten  to  tht» 
taste.     Pour  in  some  hot  melted  butter,  stirring  well.     Season 
with  lemon. — Mrs.  M,  G.  H, 

Cold  Sauce, 
Half  a  pound  of  butter  and  half  a  ))ound  of  sugar  (powdered), 
beaton  to  a  froth.     The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  o** 
essence  of  any  kind,  as  a  flavor. — Mrs,  M.  F.  G. 

Cold  SaiLce  (/or  aboiU  eight  people). 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  creamed  till  very  lighi, 
adding  sugar  till  as  thick  as  you  can  stir.  Then  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  very  rich  milk,  a  glass  of  good  wine,  and  a  little 
grated  niitmeg. — Mrs.  P.  Mc  G. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

One  cupful  of  butter;  two  cupfiils  sugar;  three  eggs;  one 
wine-glass  of  wine.  Stir  well,  and  lot  it  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs. 
F.  D. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

Cr(;am  together  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  butter.  Add  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  wiue.  Stir 
over  a  slow  fire,  but  don't  boil. — Mrs.  3fc  G. 

Lemon  Sau(^e. 

One  pound  sugar ;  tlu*nc  ounces  butter ;  half  a  teacup  of 
water.  Juice  and  sliced  rinds  of  two  lemons.  Pour  this  into  a 
saucepan,  and  while  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  ])Gat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  add  them.  When  w(^ll  boiled,  take  it  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  whites  of  tin?  two  e£:£cs,  beaten  to  a  froth.  Ti;  be 
eaten  hot  with  8]>onge  cako. — Mrs.  K. 


404  8AU0E   FOB  BOILED  PASTRY — ^PASTBY — PIB8. 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Pastry. 

Stew  for  lifteen  minutes  one  pint  of  water,  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  pour 
several  spoonfuls  of  its  contents  into  the  beaten  eggs,  stirring 
briskly.  Then  pour  all  into  the  pan,  place  it  over  a  slow  fiie 
and  stir  till  it  thickens.     Season  with  lemon  or  vanilla. — Mrs 

Molasses  Sauce. 

Moderately  boil  a  pint  of  molasses  from  five  to  twenty 
minutes,  according  to  its  consistency.  Add  three  eggs  well 
beaten.  Stir  them  and  continue  to  boil  a  few  minutes  longer. 
Season  with  nutmeg  and  lemon. — Mrs.  Dr,  e/I 


PASTRY. 

Pastry  has  fallen  somewhat  into  disfavor,  on  account  of  its 
unwholesome  properties,  but  as  many  persons  still  use  it,  we 
will  give  some  directions  for  making  it  as  wholesome  and  palat- 
able as  possible. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  use  what  is  called  '^  cooking  butter  " 
and  old  lard  for  pastry.  Only  fresh  butter  and  sweet  lard  should 
be  em]>loyed  for  the  purpose,  and  in  summer  these  should  be 
placed  on  ice  before  being  used  for  pastry.  Pastry,  like  cake, 
should  be  made  in  the  cool  of  the  morning,  and  it  should  be 
eaten  fresh,  as,  unlike  cake,  it  will  not  admit  of  being  kept. 

If  a  marble  slab  cannot  be  obtained,  it  is  well  to  keep  a  thick 
wooden  board  exclusively  for  rolling  out  pasti-y.  Handle  as 
little  as  possible,  and  if  anything  should  prevent  you  from  put- 
ting it  on  to  bake  as  soon  as  it  is  rolled  out,  put  it  on  ice  in  the 
interim,  as  this  will  make  it  nicer  and  more  flaky.     Sometimes 


KXOELLEKT  KEOIPB  FOB  PASTRY  — PUFF  PASTE.    405 

ihere  is  a  delay  about  getting  the  oven  or  fire  ready,  in  which 
case  the  cook  generally  leaves  the  pastry  lying  on  the  kitchen 
table ;  but  its  quality  would  be  much  improved  if  it  were  put  on 
the  ice  instead,  whilst  waiting  to  be  baked. 

Excellent  Recipe  for  Pastry. 

Four  teacups  flour,  one  teacup  firm  butter,  one  teacup  nice 
lard,  one  teacup  ice  water,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  the  lard 
and  butter  in  the  flour  with  a  large,  flat  knife,  then  add  the  ice 
water.  Do  not  touch  it  with  the  hands.  Take  it  up  in  a  rough- 
looking  mas»s,  roll  it  out  quickly — ^not  too  thin.  Cut  it  with  a 
very  sharp  knife  around  the  edges  of  the  patty-pans.  When 
intending  to  bake  lemon  puddings  or  cheese-cakes,  let  the  pastry 
bake  four  or  five  minutes  before  adding  butter,  as  this  prevents 
the  pastry  from  being  heavy  at  the  bottom.  In  summer  it  is  best 
to  put  five   teacups  of  flour,  instead  of  four. — Mire.  M.  C.  C, 

Pastry. 

One  pound  fresh  butter,  one  quart  flour.  Make  up  the  dough 
with  ice  water.  Divide  the  butter  into  parts.  Koll  out,  and 
cover  thickly  with  one  part  of  the  butter.  Continue  till  all  is 
rolled,  sifting  flour  each  time.  Don't  handle  much,  or  it  will  be 
heavy. — Mrs,  W, 

Pastry, 

Mix  with  water  one  quart  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  salt. 
Work  well  and  roll  out  thin.  Spread  over  with  lard,  sift  flour 
over  the  dough,  and  cut  it  in  strips  of  two  inches.  Lay  them 
in  a  pile  one  above  another,  cut  them  in  squares,  and  again  pile 
them  uj).  Press  down  with  the  hands,  and  roll  out  thin  as 
before.  Kepeat  this  several  times,  and  the  pastry  will  be  im- 
proved each  time.     Do  not  use  your  hands  after  the  roller  is 

applied. 

Puff  Paste. 

One  pound  flour,  to  be  made  up  with  cold  water  and  beaten 
fifteen  minutes.     One  pound  butter  (or  half  liinl,  if  you  hiive 


406  LEMON  FIB. 

not  enough  butter),  which  must  be  spread  on  the  dough  foai 

times  and  rolled  in. 

It  must  be  made  thin,  put  in  tins,  and  baked  in  a  moderate 

oven. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Stii 
two  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch  into  two  teacups  hot  water,  and 
boil,  stirring  well.  Add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  grauu 
lated  sugar.  When  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
then  the  lemon-juice  and  grated  rind,  stirring  the  whole  well 
together.  Line  the  plates  with  lich  pastry,  and  pour  the  mixt- 
ure in.  Bake  until  the  crust  is  done.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
^ES^  very  light,  add  six  ounces  powdered  sugar,  pour  over  the 
pies,  set  them  again  in  the  oven,  and  sliirhtly  brown.  This  will 
make  two  pies. — Mrs,  T,  M,  (7. 

Lemon  Pie. 

One  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
iiour,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  three  eggs,  one  lemon.  Mix  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon  with  the  yolks  of  the  egga 
and  the  sugar.  Add  the  milk  next,  and  then  tlio  butter  and 
flour.  Bake  in  a  paste.  After  it  is  cold,  spread  on  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  frothed  and  sweetened. — Mrs,  Mc  G. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  white  of  one,  beaten  very  light ;  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  large  lemon  ;  five  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
sugar.  Bake  in  an  undercnist  till  the  pastry  is  done.  Froth 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  with  five  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Spread 
over  the  pies  and  bake  again  till  brown. — Mrs.  Col.  8. 

Lenum  Pie. 

One  tablespoonful  butier,  creamed  with  two  cups  of  sugar, 
yolks  oc  six  eggs,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  four  lemons,  foui 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour.     Mix  well.    Add  a  cupfid  butter- 


LEMON   ORSAM   PHB — ^PEACH    MERINGUE  PIE.  407 

milk,  and  one  teas{)Oonful  soda.     Froth  and  sweeten  the  wliites 
of  the  eggs  and  i)ut  them  on  top  the  pies. — Mrs.  N. 

Lehon  Cream  Pie. 

One  cupfiil  sugar,  one  of  water ;  one  raw  potato,  grated ;  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.     Bake  in  [)iuitrv,  top  and  bottom. 

Oranqe  Pie. 

Pulp  and  juice  of  two  oranges,  a  little  of  the  grated  peel,  the 

yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  milk.     Stir 

the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  then  a  tablespoouful  of  butter,  then 

the  juice,  lastly  the  milk.     Bake  in  a  dish.     After  the  pie  has 

cooled,  spread  on  it  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs,  stiifly  frothed 

and  sweetened.    Then  set  it  again  on  the  fire,  to  brown  slightly. 

— Mrs.  McQ, 

Orange  Pie, 

One  quai-t  milk,  eight  eggs,  one  small  teacup  rolled  cracker, 
half  a  cupful  butter,  two  grated  fresh  oranges,  or  the  juice  and 
chopped  peel  of  two,  one  wine-glassful  wine.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  the  wine,  oranges,  and  eggs  beaten  to  a  foam, 
the  whites  separately,  the  milk  and  the  cracker.  Bake  half  an 
hour,  in  puff  paste. — Mrs,  M.  JB,  i?. 

Orange  JPie. 

One  pint  of  milk,  three  oranges,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  and  a  half  tablespoouful  of  corn-starch.  Bake  in  puff 
paste. — Mrs.  H.  H.  S. 

Peach  MI^rinoue  Pie. 

Pare  and  stew  ripe  peaches.  When  nearly  done,  sweeten, 
take  from  the  fire.  Stir  in  a  heaping  tonspoonful  fresh  butter 
to  each  pie.  Pour  in  a  deep  pie-plate,  lined  with  paste.  Bake  ; 
when  done,  remove  from  the  oven  and  cover  with  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  sweetened  with  three 
tablespoonf'ils  powdered  sugar.     Set  hack  in  the  oven  to  brown 


408  PEACH   FIB — 8TBAWBBRBT   8HU1£T-0AKE. 

slightly.     Apple  m^ringiie  pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  wav, 
only  flavoring  the  fruit. — Mrs.  S,  T\ 

Peach  Pie. 

Pare  and  stew  a  quart  of  peaches  with  a  pint  of  sugar,  stir- 
ting  often  ;  when  boiled  to  look  nearly  as  tliick  as  marmalade, 
take  from  the  fire  and  when  nearly  cool,  add  one  tablespoonful 
fresh  butter.  Have  ready  three  crusts,  baked  in  shallow  tin 
plates.     Spread  and  pile  up  the  fruit  on  each. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Peach  JRie. 

Pare  and  stew  the  peaches  till  nearly  done.     Sweeten  and 

boil  a  little  longer.     Set  aside  and  when  nearly  cool,  pour  into 

deep  pie-plates,  lined  with  paste.     Put  bits  of  butter  over  the 

top,  dredge  with  flour,  then  cover  with  a  top  crust,  and  bake. — 

Mr$.  T. 

Prune  Pie. 

Wash  the  prunes  through  several  waters.  Put  in  a  preserv- 
ing kettle  in  the  proportion  of  two  pounds  fruit  to  one  pound 
sugar.  Pour  a  quantity  of  boiling  water  over  them  and  let 
them  boil  at  least  two  hours.  When  they  are  thoroughly 
done  and  the  syrup  thickens,  take  from  the  fire  and  ]iour  into 
tin  plates,  lined  with  paste.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
Cover  with  a  rich  paste  and  bake. — Jfra.  S,  T. 

Damson  Pie. 

Scald  the  damsons  slightl}',  in  just  enough  water  to  prevent 
I  urning.  Set  aside  till  cool  enough  to  handle.  Remove  the 
stones,  sweeten  well,  and  put  in  a  deep  pie-plate,  lined  vdtli 
paste.  Dredge  with  a  little  flour,  cover  with  a  top  crust,  and 
bake. — Mtb.  T. 

Strawberry  Short-cake. 

Bake  a  rich  paste  in  pie-plates.  Have  six  ready.  In  these 
spread  steWed  strawberries  well  sweetened ;  lay  one  upon  another, 
Hvx  d'»*fp.     In  winter,  use  preserved  or  canned  berries. — JMrs.  IT. 


CHERRY   PIE — ^APPLE   PIE.  409 

Cherky  Pie. 

Seed  the  cherries  first,  then  scald  them  in  theii*  own  juice. 
Sweeten  liberally  and  pour  into  %  deep  pie  plate  lined  with  a 
rich  paste.  Dredge  with  flour,  cc  ver  with  a  top  crust  and  bake. 
Scarlet  or  short-stem  cherries  are  best.  It  is  necessary  to  scald 
most  fruits,  as  othei-wise  the  pastry  will  burn  before  the  fruit  is 
thoroughly  done. — Mrs.  JS.  T. 

Craitberry  Pie. 

Prepare  as  for  sauce,  stewing  two  pounds  fruit  to  one  pound 
sugar.  Pour  into  a  pie  plate  lined  with  paste,  cover  with  a  top 
crust  and  bake. 

Currant  Pie. 

Wash  and  thoroughly  pick  the  fruit.  Sweeten  liberally  and 
put  in  a  yellow  baking-dish,  adding  a  little  boiling  water  to 
melt  the  sugar  ;  let  it  simmer  a  little  ;  then  set  it  aside  to  cooL 
Pour  into  a  i)ie  plate,  covered  with  paste.  Dredge  with  flour. 
Cover  with  paste  and  bake. 

Apple  Pie. 

Put  a  crust  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish.  Put  on  it  a  layer  ol 
ripe  apples,  pared,  cored,  and  sliced  thin,  then  a  layer  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Do  this  alternately,  till  the  dish  is  filled.  Add  a 
few  teaspoonfuls  rose  water  and  some  cloves.  Put  on  a  crust 
and  bake  it. — Mrs,  IC, 

Apple  Pie, 

Pare  and  stew  the  ai)ple.s  till  thoroughly  done  and  quite  dry. 
Rub  through  a  colander  and  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar. 
When  cool  add  the  whites  of  eggs — ^three  eggs  to  a  pint  of 
apples — and  a  teacup  of  cream,  whipped.  Beat  all  the  ingre- 
dients together  with  a  patent  egg-whip — one  with  a  wheel  if 
convenient.  Spread  upon  crusts  of  rich  paste,  baked  in  shallow 
tin  pie-plates.  Grate  nutmeg  on  each  one  and  pile  up  three  or 
four  deen.— 3fr«.  S   T. 


410  APPLB   PIK — TOMATO   PIE. 

A2)ple  Pie, 

Pare  and  slice  the  apples.  Make  a  little  thick  syrup  of 
white  sugar,  into  which  throw  a  few  cloves,  allspice,  or  maoe,  as 
you  prefer.  In  this  syrup,  scald  a  few  apples  at  a  time,  taking 
them  out  and  putting  more  in  till  all  are  slightly  cooked.  Set 
aside  to  cool,  then  pour  into  deep  pie  plates  lined  with  past-e. 
Dredge  with  flour.  Put  bits  of  butter  over  all.  Di*edge  again. 
Cover  witli  paste  and  bake.  A  glass  of  brandy  or  wine  will 
improve  it. — Mrs,  S,  T. 

Blackberry  Pie. 

Pick  the  berries,  but  do  not  wash  them.  Stew  slightly, 
sweeten,  pour  into  a  pie  i)latc,  lined  with  paste.  Grate  in  a 
little  nutmeg,  dredge  with  flour,  pnt  on  a  top  crust  and  bake. 

Whortleberry  Pie. 

Pour  just  enough  boiling  water  on  the  fruit  to  prevent  it  from 
sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  preserving  kettle.  Boil  a  minute, 
sweeten  and  pour  into  a  pie-plate  lined  with  paste.  Di*edge 
with  flour,  cover  with  paste  and  bake. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

Gooseberry  Pie. 

Put  one  pound  sugar  to  one  of  fruit,  adding  just  enough 
water  to  prevent  it  from  burning.  Cook  till  it  begins  to  jell  v. 
Then  spread  over  shapes  of  rich  puff  paste,  already  baked. — 
Mrs.  M.  C.  C, 

Tomato  Pie. 

Slice  green  tomatoes  and  stew  in  a  thick  syrup  of  sugar  and 
lemon  juice.  Grate  in  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon.  When  trans- 
parent, spread  evenly  over  the  bottom  of  a  pie-plate  that  has  been 
lined  with  p9ste.  Spread  strips  of  pastry  across  or  cut  into 
ornamental  leaves  with  a  cake-cutter,  place  over  the  fruit  and 
bake.— Jfr*.  S,  T. 


blioed  potato  pie — mincemeat.  411 

Sliced   Potato  Pie. 

Steam  or  boil  the  potatoes.  Slice  and  lay  in  a  syrup  of  sugar 
seasoned  with  whole  cloves  or  allspice.  Scald  and  set  aside  till 
nearly  cool.  Then  ])lace  the  slices  evenly  on  the  bottom  of  a 
deep  pie-plate  lined  with  ci*ust.  Put  in  each  pie  a  tablespoon - 
ful  of  butter  in  bits,  a  wine-glass  of  brandy  or  Madeira  wine. 
—Mrs.  JS,  7\ 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

One  pint  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  with  a  teacup  sweet 
milk,  and  run  through  a  colander.  Beat  .separately  four  eggs ; 
cream  one  teacup  butter  with  one  of  sugar.  Beat  in  the  yolks, 
then  the  potatoes,  grate  in  half  a  nutmeg,  pour  in  a  large  wine- 
glass of  bi-andy  or  good  whiskey,  and  last  of  all,  stir  in  the 
frothed  wliites.  Bake  in  deep  pie  plates,  lined  with  paste,  with- 
out a  top  crust.     Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  pies. 

Irish  potato  pie  uiay  be  made  in  the  same  way ;  only  adding 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. — Mrs.  T. 

Rhubarb  Pie. 

Cai-efuUy  skin  the  stalks,  cut  in  pieces  half  an  inch  long. 
Scald  in  a  little  rich  syrup,  but  not  long  enough  to  become  soft. 
Set  aside,  and  when  nearly  cool,  pour  into  a  pie  plate,  lined 
with  paste.  Put  a  little  grated  lemon  rind  and  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut,  in  each  pie.  Dredge  with  flour,  put  on 
a  top  crust  and  bake. — Mrs.  7\ 

Mincemeat. 

Two  quarts  boiled  beef,  two  quarts  suet,  chopped  fine  (or  a 
part  butter,  for  suet).  Six  quarts  apples,  one  quart  molasses 
(best  quality).  Four  pounds  sugar,  three  pounds  raisins,  one 
pound  citron.  Nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  and  wine  to 
your  ta.ste.  Mix  well,  pack  in  jars,  with  melted  butter  on  top, 
if  to  keop  long.     Put  in  a  cool  place.  — Mrs.  T.  IV. 


412  MrNOEMK\T — CREAM   PIB. 

3fincemeaL 

Three  pounds  meat  (after  it  is  boiled).  Four  pouuds  Bxiet, 
three  and  one-half  pounds  lui&ins,  one  and  one-half  pouuds  car- 
rants,  one-iialf  pound  dried  cherries,  two  nutmegs,  and  maco  to 
your  taste.  Four  pints  white  wine,  one  pint  brandy,  four 
pounds  brown  sugar. — Mrs,  M,  E.  J.  B, 

Mincemeat, 

Six  cupfuls  beef,  twelve  cupfuls  apples,  three  cupfuls  sugar, 
two  cupfuls  molasses,  two  cupfuls  butter,  two  pounds  raisins, 
one  quaH  cider,  three  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  allspice,  two  nutmegs. 

Mincemeat. 

Two  pounds  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled  and  chopped.  Two 
pounds  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  four  pounds  pippin  apples,  two 
pounds  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  two  ])ounds  currants,  one* 
half  pound  citron,  two  grated  nutmegs,  one  ounce  powdered 
cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  mace,  two  large 
oranges,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  quart  brandy,  one  quart  wine, 
one  wineglass  rose  water. 

Cream  Pie. 

One  quart  morning's  milk,  1  cupful  sugai',  yolks  of  six  ^gs, 

three  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour.     Boil   twenty  minutes,  after 

seasoning  with  nutmeg,  wine,  and  vanilla  or  lemon.     Have  rich 

pastry  already  baked,  in  deep  pie  plates.     Fill  with  the  above 

mixture  and  bake.     Make  a  m6ringue  of  the  whites  and  some 

sugar,  pour  over  the  pie,  and  set  it  in   the   stove  again    to 

brown. — Mrs.  T, 

Cream  Pie. 

One  half  pound  butter,  four  eggs,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste, 
two  tablespoonfuls  flour  well  mixed  with  milk.  Pour  over  it  one 
quart  boiling  milk,  stir  all  together  and  bake  in  deep  dishes.— 
Mrs.  A.  JB, 


SODA   OBA.OKBB  FIE — ^MOLASSES  PIS.  413 

Soda  Ckackeb  Pie. 

Pour  water  on  two  large  or  four  round  soda  crackers  and  let 
them  remain  till  thoroughly  wet.  Then  press  out  the  water 
and  crush  them  up  together.  Stir  in  the  juice  and  grated  peel 
of  a  lemon,  with  a  cupful  or  more  of  powdered  sugar.  Put  in 
pastry  and  bake. — Jliss  IT,  L. 

Silver  Pie. 

Peel  and  gi*ate  one  large  white  potato.  Add  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  one  cupful 
of  white  sugar,  and  one  of  cold  water. 

Bake  in  a  nice  paste.  After  baking,  spread  on  top  the  whites 
of  three  eggs,  frothed,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  lemon.  Set 
again  on  the  fire  and  brown.  Lay  on  small  pieces  of  jelly  or 
jam,  just  before  taking  it  to  the  table. — Mrs,  M,  B.  B, 

Custakd  Pie. 

One  quart  milk,  five  eggs,  five  tablespoonfuls  sugar  ;  flavor 
with  lemon. 

Bake  slowly,  half  an  hour. — Mrs,  M.  B,  B. 

Washington  Pie. 

One  cupful  sugar,  one-half  cupful  butter,  one-half   cupful 

sweet  milk,  one-half   cupful  flour,  one   eg!^y  one  teaspoouful 

cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teas[)oonful  soda ;  flavor  witli  lemon. 

Put  on  dinner  plates — spread  with  apple  sauce  between  each 

layer, — Mrs,  JDr.  c/I 

Sugar  Pie. 

Three  cupfuls  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  melted 
buiter,  one-half  cupful  cream,  three  eggs.  Season  with  leiuon ; 
beat  well  together ;  bake  in  pastry,  without  tops. — Mrs,  «/".  P. 

G. 

Molasses  Pie. 

Three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  pint  molasses,  one  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter.     Bake  on  a  rich  crust. — Mrs,  Dr»  J, 


414  MOLA88B8  FOB— <X>RN'8TAKCH   CHBE8K  GAXE8. 

MoUuses  JPie, 

One  teacup  molasses,  one  teacup  sugar,  four  eggs,  four  table 
spoonfuls  butter.     Mix  sugar  and  eggs  together,  pour  in  butter, 
and  add  molasses. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Cheese   Cakes. 

Yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half  pound  but- 
ter, one  cupful  flour,  one  pint  milk,  juice  of  two  lemons.  The 
milk,  flour,  and  butter,  creamed,  and  lemons  put  in  togetiier, 
after  the  eggs  are  well  beaten.  Stir  all  well  together  till  it 
curds. 

Bake  in  paste. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cakes. 

Yolks  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  three-quarters  pound 
butter,  four  lemons,  boiling  linds  twice  before  using,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  powdered  cracker. 

Bake  in  paste. — Mrs,  Dr.  M. 

Ijemon  Cheese  Cakes. 

Mix  and  gently  melt  four  ounces  of  sugar  and  four  ounces  of 
butter ;  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  white  of  one ;  grated  rind  of 
three  lemons,  juice  of  one  and  a  half  lemon,  one  small  Savoj 
or  sponge  biscuit,  some  almonds  blanched  and  pounded,  three 
spoonfuls  brandy.     Mix  well  and  bake  in  rich  pastry. — Mrs.   V. 

P.M. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cakes. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs  or  yolks  of  ^vq  and  whites  of  three,  one- 
half  pound  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter,  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
grated  rind  of  three.     Bake  in  rich  pastiy — Miss  D.  D. 

CORN-STARCH   ChEESE   CaKES. 

Juice  and  rind  of  three  lemons,  three  cupfuls  water,  three 
cupfuls  sugar,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  two 
tablespoonf  uls  butter.     Boil  the  water,  nix  the  corn  starch  with 


ALMOND  CHEE8B  0AKE8 — FSXJKE  TABTB.  415 

a  littlo  cold  water  and  pour  on  the  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  up 
once  and  then  pour  it  on  the  butter  and  sugar.  After  it  cools 
add  the  lemons  and  eggs. — JUiss  D,  D. 

Almond  Ohessb  Cakes. 

Beat  up  together  very  light  one-half  pound  powdered  sugar, 
and  the  whites  of  four  eggs. 

Blanch  and  cut  in  small  pieces  four  ounces  of  almonds,  which 
must  be  beaten  up  with  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Add  a  little  oil  of 
almonds  or  rose  water,  and  bake  with  pastry,  in  tins. — JUra* 
LH, 

Almond  Cheese  Cakes, 

Soak  one-half  pound  Jordan  almonds  in  cold  water  all  night. 
Next  morning,  blanch  them  in  cold  water,  lay  them  on  a  clean 
cloth  to  dry,  and  then  beat  them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar  with  a 
little  orange-flower  or  rose  water.  Then  beat  and  strain  six 
yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  add  a  half-pound  white  sugar,  and 
a  little  powdered  mace.  Rub  all  well  together  in  the  mortar. 
Melt  ten  ounces  fresh  butter,  and  add  a  grated  lemon  peel. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  fill  the  pans,  after  putting  a  paste  at 
the  bottom.     Small  tin  shapes  are  best  for  cheese  cakes. 

Ckeam  Tauts. 

Make  them  small,  of  rich  paste.  Fill  them  after  baking,  with 
whipped  cream,  and  drop  a  small  spot  of  jelly  in  each  one.  The 
prettiest  and  most  delicate  of  tarts. — Mrs,  M,  JB.  B. 

Lemon  Tarts. 

Chop  or  grate  a  lemon ;  add  a  cupful  white  sugar,  a  cupful 
water,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  flour.  Line  small  patties  with 
paste,  put  a  spoonful  in  each  and  bake. — Mrs.  M.  B.  B. 

Prune  Tarts. 

Scald  the  prunes,  take  out  the  stones,  break  them  and  put  the 
kernels  in  a  little  cranberry  juice  with  the  prunes,  and  some 


116  FRBNOU   FRnXBRB — ^BSLL  FHITTEB8 

sugar.     Simmer  them,  and  when  cold  put  in  tart  shapes  in 
try  an  J  bake. — Mrs.   V,  P,  M. 

French  Fkitters. 

One  quart  of  milk  (half  to  be  boiled,  and  the  other  hall 
mixed  with  a  quart  of  flour,  and  used  to  thicken  the  boiling 
milk  with). 

Let  it  get  done.  While  cooking,  beat  ten  eggs  very  light; 
add  a  spoonful  at  a  time  to  the  batter,  beating  all  the  time,  till 
well  mixed.  Add  salt  to  your  taste.  Have  a  small  oven  full 
of  nice  lard,  boiling  hot.  Put  not  quite  a  spoonful  of  batter  to 
each  fritter.  Take  them  out  before  they  turn  dark  and  put 
them  in  a  colander  to  drain  the  lard  off  of  them. — Mrs,  Dr.  jE» 

Fritters  {made  with  yeast). 

One  quart  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  yeast,  five  eggs,  one  pint 
milk.  Beat  into  a  tolerably  stiff  batter.  Stir  a  cupful  of 
boiled  rice  into  the  batter,  a  short  time  before  baking.  A  good 
deal  of  lard  (boiling  hot)  is  required  for  frying  the  fritters. 
Drop  the  batter  in  with  a  spoon,  which  must  oe  dipped,  each 
time,  in  boiling  water.  In  cool  weather,  make  the  frittera 
about  nine  in  the  morning,  in  the  summer,  about  eleven. — 
Mrs.  A.  C. 

Bell  Fritters. 

Put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  in  a  preserving  kettle,  and  as  it 
boils,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter.  Have  ready  a  pint 
of  the  best  flour,  sifted  and  wet  with  cold  water,  as  for  starch. 
Dip  up  some  of  the  boiling  water  and  pour  to  this,  being  care- 
ful to  have  it  smooth.  Return  this  to  the  kettle,  stirring 
i*apidly  to  prevent  lumps.  Turn  into  a  wooden  tray,  and  while 
hot,  beat  in  six  well  beaten  eggs,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Beat 
till  very  light,  and  beat  quickly  that  the  eggs  may  not  cook  in 
lumps.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  boiling  lard  in  a  pan.  Make  the 
fritters  the  shape  of  an  egg,  drop  in  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

To  be  eaten  with  a  pint  of  molasses,  a  heaping  tablespoonful 


QUIRE  OF  FAP1SR  PAN0AKE8 — JKLLY,  BLAN0-MAN6K      417 

of  butter,  a  little  ginger  and  cinnamon ,  boiled  to  a  thick  syioip 
and  served  hot. 

A  great  deal  of  lard  is  required  to  fry  fritters  nicely ;  yet  it  is 
not  extravagant,  as  it  may  be  used  again.  Strain  what  remains 
and  put  it  by  for  use. — Mrs.  JS.  T, 

Quire  of  Paper  Pancakes. 

Mix  with  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  fine  flour,  four  ounces 
sugar,  ^\^  ounces  fresh  butter,  melted  and  cooled,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  Madeira  wine,  half  a  nutmeg.  Grease  the  pans  once 
with  fresh  butter,  and  this  will  answer  for  all.  The  above  quan- 
tity will  suffice  for  five  or  six  persons. — Mr9,  R, 

OoMMOK  Pancakes. 

Eight  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  salt. 


•  »  • 


JELLY,  BLANC-MANGE,  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE, 
BAKED  CUSTARD,  CREAMS,  ETC. 

Jelly  made  of  tlie  feet  of  calves,  hogs,  etc.,  is  more  trouble- 
some, but  is  also  considered  more  nutritious  than  jelly  made  of 
gelatine.  It  is  very  desirable,  for  country  housekeepers  in  par- 
ticular, to  make  this  sort  of  jelly,  as  the  materials  are  generally 
in  their  reach.  It  is  well,  however,  in  all  cases,  to  keep  on 
hand  Cox's  or  Nelson's  gelatine,  on  account  of  the  expedition 
with  which  jelly  may  be  made  from  these  preparations. 

As  jelly  is  considered  more  wholesome  when  not  colored  by 
any  foreign  substance,  no  directions  will  be  given  in  the  subse- 
quent pages  for  coloring  it.     The  palest  amber  j (illy,  clear  ana 
sparkling,  flavored  only  by  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemoL 
18* 


118       JKLLT  BLANG-MANOK,  OUABLOTTB  BUSSE. 

and  i>a]e  jMadeira  or  sherry  wiiie,  is  not  only  the  most  beautiful, 
but  the  most  pahitable  jelly  that  can  be  made. 

Though  the  recipes  accompanying  boxes  of  gelatine  do  not 
always  recommend  boiling,  it  is  a  great  improvement  to  jelly, 
adding  brilliancy,  transparency,  and  a  better  flavor.  Oulj  the 
grated  yellow  riud  and  strained  juice  of  the  lemon  should  be 
used,  and  these,  with  the  requisite  quantity  of  pale  Madeira  or 
shorry,  should  be  added  after  the  other  ingredients  have  been 
well  boiled  together.  The  white  rind  or  one  single  lenioc  seed 
will  render  the  jelly  bitter,  A  delicious  preserve  (for  wliicli 
a  receipt  is  given  under  the  proper  heading),  may  bo  made  of 
lemons,  after  the  yellow  rind  has  been  grated  off  and  the  juice 
pressed  out  for  jelly. 

The  best  and  most  simple  arrangement  for  straining  jelly  is  to 
invert  a  small  table,  fold  an  old  table-cloth  four  double,  tie  each 
corner  to  a  leg  of  the  table ;  set  a  bowl  under  the  bag  thus 
formed,  with  another  bowl  at  hand  to  slip  in  its  place  when  the 
jelly  first  run  through  is  returned  to  the  bag,  as  will  be  neces- 
sary, the  first  never  being  transparently  clear.  Catch  a  little  in 
a  glass.  If  clear  as  crystal,  it  will  be  unnecessary  to  i-etum  it 
again  to  the  bag.  You  may  then  put  a  thick  cloth  over  the  bag 
to  keep  in  the  heat,  and  if  in  winter,  place  befoi'e  a  fire.  Shut 
up  the  room,  and  let  it  drip.  The  jelly  will  run  through  the 
bag  more  rapidly  if  the  bag  is  first  scalded. 

Jelly  should  never  be  made  in  hot  weather.  Ices  ai-c  much 
better  and  more  seasonable. 

Always  serve  jelly  with  a  pitcher  of  whipped  cream,  but  do 
not  mix  it  beforehand  with  the  cream,  as  it  is  best  to  leave  it  to 
the  taste  of  each  j>erson. 

For  blanc-mange  and  gelatine,  it  is  best  to  use  gelatine  and 
as  few  spices  as  possible,  as  spices  turn  gelatine  dark.  As  such 
explicit  directions  are  given  in  the  subsequent  pages  for  the 
making  of  these  dishes,  it  is  unnecessary  to  say  anything  further 
on  the  subject  at  present. 

A  nice  custard  is  made  in  the  following  manner :  Mix  the 


«ai 


6T00K  JELLY — OALVES'  FOOT  JELLV.        419 

beaten  jolka  of  six  eggs  with  a  teaonp  of  sugar.  Hav^  a  quart 
of  milk  boiling  in  a  kettle.  Dip  up  a  teacup  of  milk  at  a  time 
and  pour  on  the  eggs,  till  the  kettle  is  emptied^  stirring  rapidly 
all  the  time.  Wash  out  the  kettle,  pour  the  mixture  back,  and 
stir  constantly  till  it  thickens.  Then  pour  it  into  a  bowl  and 
stir  till  cool,  to  make  it  smooth  aud  prevent  it  from  curdling. 
Put  in  the  bottom  of  glass  mugs  slips  of  jjreserved  orange, 
lemon,  or  citron.  Fill  nearly  full  with  custard ;  put  whipped 
cream  and  grated  nutmeg  on  top. 

Or,  the  yolks  may  be  mixed  with  boiled  milk  and  sugar  in  the 
same  proportions,  biit  instead  of  being  returned  to  the  kettle, 
may  be  poured  into  china  or  earthenware  custard-cups,  set  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  placed  in  a  stove  or  range,  and  baked. 
The  boiled  milk  must  be  seasoned  by  boiling  a  vanillii  bean  in 
it,  or  a  few  peach  leaves,  or  it  may  be  flavored  with  carohiel. 
Serve  the  custard  with  whipped  cream  on  top. 

Stock  Jelly, 

To  one  and  a  half  gallons  of  stock,  put  the  whipped  whites  of 
eight  eggs.  Put  in  six  blades  of  mace  and  the  rind  of  three 
lemons,  4^  pounds  sugar.  Jxit  it  boil  ten  minutes,  then  add  three 
pints  of  Madc'ira  wine,  juice  of  eight  lemons,  a  little  vinegar  or 
sharp  cider.  Let  it  boil  only  a  few  minutes.  Strain  through  a 
dripper.  If  the  stock  is  not  very  nice,  it  may  reijuire  the 
whites  of  one  dozen  eggs  to  clear  it. — Mrs.   1\ 

Calves'  Foot  Jelly. 

One  quart  nice  jelly  stock,  one  pint  wine,  half  a  pound  white 
sugar,  wliites  of  four  eggs  beaten  up,  three  spoonfuls  lemon 
juice.  Boil  all  well  and  pass  through  a  jelly-bag,  kept  hot 
before  the  fire.  Try  some  at  first,  till  it  drips  clear,  and  then 
})our  out  the  whole.  Peel  the  lemons  us  thin  as  ])ussible  and 
strain  the  jelly  on  the  peelings.  Should  you  wish  to  turn  on' 
the  jelly  in  moulds,  put  one  ounce  isinglass  to  three  pints  of 
jelly. — Mt8.  I.  H. 


4s0  i8ingla88  jellt — gelatine  ikixy. 

Isinglass  Jelly. 

Dissolve  two  ounces  isinglass  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
When  cold,  add  juice  of  three  lemons  and  skin  of  one,  whites 
of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
pint  cider,  four  pieces  cinnamon  (size  of  the  little  finger),  eight 
blades  of  mace.  Let  it  boil  up  welL  Be  careful  not  to  stir 
after  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Let  it  stand  ten 
minutes  aftei  removing  from  the  fire,  and  just  before  straining 
pour  in  a  pint  of  wine. — Mr9,  W.  M,  R, 

Crystal  Jelly. 

Pare  off  the  rind  of  one  large  lemon.  Boil  in  one  pint  water 
with  one  ounce  isinglass ;  add  one  pound  sugar  and  one  cup  pale 
wine.  As  soon  as  the  isinglass  is  dissolved,  strain  through  a 
muslin  and  let  it  stand  till  cold.  Grate  the  rind  of  another  lemon 
and  let  it  stand  in  the  juice  of  the  two  lemons  for  a  short  time. 
Strain  all  in  a  bowl,  and  whisk  it  till  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Pour 
in  moulds. — Mrs.  JE,  P.  (r. 

Gelatine  Jelly. 

Soak  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  three  hoxurs,  in  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Then  add  one  pint  of  cooking  wine,  the  lind  and  juice 
of  one  lemon,  two  pounds  white  sugar,  a  little  mace.  Stir  these 
ingredients  till  the  sugar  dissolves,  then  add  two  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water,  gently  stirring  till  mixed.  Strain  at  once,  through 
a  flannel  bag  twice.  This  recipe  makes  the  best  jelly  I  ever 
saw. — Mrs.  M,  M,  D. 

Gelatine  tTdlt/. 

To  one  package  of  gelatine  add  one  pint  cold  water,  the  rind  of 
one  lemon  and  juice  of  three.  Let  it  stand  an  hour.  Then  add 
three  pints  of  boiling  water,  one  pint  wine,  two  and  a  quarter 
])ounds  loaf  sugar,  a  wineglass  of  brandy  or  the  best  rum. 
Strain  through  a  napkin  and  let  it  stand  to  jelly.  —JIfrs,  Col.  S. 

Gelatine  Jelly  (vnthaut  atraininff). 
Add  a  pint  cold  water  to  one  box  Cox's  gelatine.     Let  il 


JELI.T   WITHOUT  EGGS  OB  BOILING ^BLANO-MANGE.    421 

stand  fifteen  minutes^  then  add  three  pints  boiling  water,  one 
pint  wine,  the  strained  juice  and  peelings  (cut  thin)  of  three 
lemons,  half  a  teacup  of  best  vinegar,  one  and  a  half  pounds  loaf 
sugar,  one  wine-glass  French  brandy,  mace  or  any  other  spice 
you  like,  and  a  little  essence  of  lemon.  Let  it  stand  an  hour, 
then  take  out  the  lemon  peel  and  mace.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool 
place  to  congeal. — Mrs.  Dr,  J'. 

Jelly  without  Eggs  or  Boiling. 

Dissolve  one  package  gelatine,  an  hour,  in  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Then  add  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  the  strained 
juice  of  four  lemons  and  the  lind  of  two,  one  quart  of  wine, 
two  pounds  of  sugar.  Stir  all  well  together  until  dissolved. — 
Mrs.  E.  B. 

J'elly  without  JBoUvng, 

To  one  of  the  shilling  packages  of  Cox's  gelatine,  add  one 
pint  cold  water.  After  letting  it  stand  an  hour,  add  one  and  a 
half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  one  pint 
light  wine,  three  pints  boiling  water,  and  cinnamon  to  the  taste. 
In  cold  weather  this  is  ready  for  use  in  four  or  five  hours.  Set 
the  vessel  with  the  jelly  on  ice,  in  summer. — Miss  D.  D, 

Cream  Jellt. 

Two  measures  of  stock,  one  of  cream ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to 
the  taste.     Pour  in  moulds  to  congeal. 

BliANC-MANGE. 

Dissolve  over  a  fire  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  gill  of  water. 
Pour  the  melted  isingluss  in  a  quart  of  cream  (or  mixed  creaui 
and  milk),  and  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Put  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour.  Strain  it,  and  add  a 
quarter  of  pound  of  almonds,  blanched,  and  shaved  fine.  Sea- 
son to  the  taste  with  vanilla  and  wine,  but  do  not  add  the  wine 
while  hot.     Pour  into  moulds. — Mrs,  O,  (7. 


422  ]ILANC-MANOB — ^AKBOW^-AOOT   BLAJTC-MANOB. 

Blane^uimge, 

Po\/r  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water  on  one  ounce  gelatine  tc 
soften  it.  Boil  three  pints  rich  cream.  Stir  the  gelatine  intc 
it  whilst  on  the  fire,  and  sweeten  to  the  taste.  When  it  cools, 
sca&on  with  three  tablespoonfuls  peach  water.  Four  ounces 
almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  very  fine  and  boiled  with  the 
blanc-mange,  ai*e  a  gi'eat  improvement.  When  it  begins  to 
thicken,  pour  into  moulds.  Sei*ve  with  plain  cream. — Mrs.  t/I 
ff.  T. 

JBlano-^nange. 

Sweeten  a  pint  of  ci-eam  and  flavor  it  with  lemon  juice. 
Then  whip  it  over  ice,  till  a  stitf  froth.  Add  one-quarter  of  an 
ounce  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  and  whip  it 
well  Hgain  to  keep  the  gelatine  from  settling  at  the  bottom. 
Pour  in  a  mould,  and  set  on  ice  till  stiff  enough  to  turn  out 
Eat  with  cream,  plain  or  seasoned.  A  delicious  dish. — Mrt. 
G.  D,  L. 

Ulanc-mange.  ( Very  fine.) 

Dissolve  one  box  gelatine  in  two  quarts  milk,  let  stand  for 
two  horn's.  Boil  six  almonds  in  the  milk.  Strain  through  a 
sifter  while  this  is  being  boiled.  Pound  together  m  a  mortar, 
two  handfuls  blanched  almonds  and  half  a  cupful  granulated 
sugar.  Stir  into  the  boiled  milk.  Add  one  tablespoonfiil 
vanilla,  and  sweeten  to  your  taste. — Mrs.  TV.  S. 

Custard  Blanc-manoe. 

Make  a  custard  with  one  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  one  teacup 
sugar.  Stir  into  it  while  boiling,  half  a  box  gelatine  after  it 
has  soaked  ten  minutes.  Season  with  vanilla,  and  pour  in 
moulds.     Eat  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  M,  JP.  G, 

Abrow-root  Blakc-xanqe. 

Boil  in  a  saucepan  (tightly  covered)  one  quart  milk  and  a 
piece  of  vanilla  bean.     Stir  into  half  a  pint  creamy  a  teacup 


CUOOOLATB   MANOE— OHARLOrrK   RUBSK.  438 

arrow-root,  and  a  little  nauoe,  mixing  them  smoothly.  Pour 
into  this  the  quart  boiling  milk,  stir  it  well,  pnt  it  in  the  sauce- 
pan again  and  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Sweeten  to  your 
taste.  Set  it  in  moulds  to  cool.  Eat  with  cream,  flavored  to 
your  taste. — Mrs,  S, 

Chocolate  Mange. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  pint  cold  water.  Let 
it  stand  an  hour.  Then  boil  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  add  to  it 
six  ounces  chocolate  with  the  gelatine.  Sweeten  to  your  taste 
and  pour  into  moulds.  Eat  with  sauce  made  of  cream,  wine, 
and  sugar. — Mrs,  W,  H,  L. 

Coffee  Mange. 

One  cupful  very  strong  coffee,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful 
rich  cream.  Dissolve  half  a  box  gelatine  in  two  cupfuls  milk, 
over  the  fire.  Add  the  cream  last,  after  the  rest  is  cool.  Pour 
in  a  mould  to  congeal. — Mrs,  Mc  G. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

One  pint  milk  made  into  a  custard  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
sweetened  with  half  a  pound  sugar,  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 
Strain  into  the  custai'd,  one  ounce  isinglass,  dissolved  in  two 
cupfuls  milk.  When  this  mixture  is  cold  and  begins  to  stiffen, 
mix  with  it  gradually,  one  pint  rich  cream,  previously  whipped 
to  a  froth.  Then  put  strips  of  sponge  cake  around  the  mould 
and  put  the  Charlotte  Russe  in.  Turn  it  out  when  ready  to 
serve. — Mrs.  W,  C,  R, 

Charlotte  Hitsse. 

Soak  three-quarters  of  a  package  of  gelatine  in  three  teacups 
fresh  milk.  Make  a  custard  of  one  and  a  half  pint  fresh  milk, 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs. 
When  it  has  boiled,  add  the  gela;  ine,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 


484  CHABLOTTB  BU8SX. 

When  it  begins  to  congeal,  stir  in  a  quart  rich  cream,  whipped 
to  a  froth. — Mrs,  M, 

Cfiarlotte  Musse. 

Have  a  tin  or  earthernware  mould  six  inches  high,  and  the 
same  in  diameter  (or  oblong,  if  you  like).  Slice  sponge  cake 
or  lady-Hngers  and  line  the  mould  with  them.  Then  beat  three 
pints  rich  cream  to  a  froth,  and  put  the  froth  on  a  sieve  to 
drain  the  milk  from  it.  Take  one  pint  calf's-foot  jelly  (or  one 
and  a  half  ounces  gelatine),  half  a  pint  rich  milk,  and  the  yolka 
of  six  eggs.  Place  over  a  slow  fire,  and  beat  till  they  nearlj 
boil.  Then  take  them  off  the  fire  and  beat  till  cool.  Put 
in  the  frothed  cream,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  flavor  with  vanilla, 
and  stir  all  well  together.  Fill  the  mould  and  place  it  on  ioe 
to  cool. — Mrs.  W.  If.  L. 

SVi'awhen'y  CliarloUe  Russe. 

Six  eggs,  one  ounce  isinglass,  one  quart  milk.  Sweeten  to 
the  taste  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  into  moulds.  Then 
put  it  on  sponge  cake,  covered  with  strawberry  jam,  and  pour 
around  the  dish  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
wine. — Mrs.  McG. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Sweeten  one  quait  cream,  flavor  it  with  wine  and  whip  it 
lightly.  Dissolve  half  a  box  gelatine  in  a  tablespoonful  cold 
water  and  the  same  quantity  of  boiling  water.  Set  over  the 
steam  of  a  kettle  to  dissolve.  Then  add  half  a  pint  of  cream. 
When  cold,  stir  it  into  the  whipf)ed  cream.  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  cream.  When  it 
begins  to  stiffen,  pour  into  a  glass  bowl,  lined  with  thin  strips 
of  sponge  cake.  Whip,  sweeten  and  flavor  another  pint  of 
cream,  and  garnish  the  dish. — Mrs,  D. 

Charlotte  Russe, 
One  ounce  gelatine  ;  one  quart  rich  cream ;  eight  eggs ;  one 


BASED  CUBTAHD — SPANISH   CRBAIC  426 

quart  new  milk.  Sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Wliip  the 
cream  to  a  stiff  froth.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  gelatine 
and  yolks  of  the  eggs.  When  cool,  add  the  whites  of  the  e^^ 
well  beaten  and  the  whipped  cream.  Line  the  mould  with 
sponge  cake,  and  if  in  summer  put  it  on  ice. — Jifiaa  M,  C.  L. 

Baked  Custard. 

Boil  a  quart  or  three  pints  of  cream,  or  rich  milk,  with  cinna- 
mon, and  three  dozen  beaten  peach  kernels,  tied  in  a  piece  of 
muslin,  or  you  may  substitute  some  other  flavoring,  if  you 
choose.     After  boiling,  let  it  cool. 

Then  beat  the  yolks  of  fourteen  eggs  and  whites  of  four, 
sweeten  and  strain  in  a  pitcher.  After  it  has  settled,  pour  it  in 
cups  and  set  them  in  the  oven,  putting  around  them  as  much 
boiling  water  as  will  reach  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  cups.  Let 
it  boil  till  you  see  a  scum  rising  on  top  the  custard.  It  will 
require  at  least  ten  minutes  to  bake. — Mrs.  JR, 

Baked  Cvstard. 
Seven  eggs ;  one  quart  milk ;    three   tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs,  Dr,  E, 

Baked  Custard, 

Scald  eight  teacups  milk.  (Be  careful  not  to  boil  it.)  After 
cooling,  stir  into  it  eight  eggs  and  two  teacups  sugar.  Bake  in  a 
dish  or  cups.  Set  in  a  stove  pan  and  surround  with  water,  but 
not  enough  to  boil  into  the  custard  cups.  An  oven  for  baking 
puddings  is  the  right  temperature.  Bake  when  the  custard  is 
set,  which  will  be  in  twenty  minutes. — Mrs,  Jl  Jl  A. 

Spanish  Cream. 

Boil,  till  dissolved,  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  three  pints  of 

milk.     Then  add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  beaten  light,  and  mixed 

with  two  teacups  sugar.     Put  again  on  the  Are  and  stir  till  it 

thickens.     Then  set  it  aside  to  cool,  and  meantime  beat  the 

86 


4S6  SPAKIBH   OBBAM — ^BAYABIAN  CSSAM. 

six  whites  very  stafT  and  stir  them  into  the  custard  when  almoict 
cold.  Pour  into  moulds.  Flavor  to  your  taste,  before  adding 
the  whites. — Mr:  Wi 

Spanish  Cream, 

Dissolve  half  a  box  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  milk.  Boil  one 
quart  milk,  and  while  boiling  beat  six  eggs  separately  and  very 
light.  Mix  the  yolks  with  the  boiling  milk,  and  when  it 
thickens  add  the  gelatine.  Sweeten  and  season  to  the  taste. 
Pour  all  while  hot  on  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  into 
moulds.— ifr*.  J.  T.  B. 

Italian  Cream. 

Soak  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one  pint  cold  water.  Then  add 
one  quart  nice  cream,  season  with  fresh  lemons,  sweeten  to  your 
taste,  beat  well  together,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  When 
hard,  eat  with  cream,  flavored  with  wine. — Mrs,  A.  B. 

Kussian  Crbam. 

Boil,  till  dissolved,  one  ounce  gelatine  in  three  pints  milk. 
Then  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  five  ounces 
sugar.  Mix  the  whole  and  let  it  cook.  Then  strain  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Beat  the  four  wliites  to  a  stiff  fi*oth,  and  when 
the  cream  is  nearly  congealed,  beat  them  in.  Flavor  to  your 
taste,  and  mould. — Mrs,  A.  P. 

Bavarian  Cream. 

Sweeten  one  pint  thick  cream  to  your  taste  and  flavor  it  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Chum  the  cream  to  a  froth,  skim  off  the 
froth  as  it  rises  and  put  it  in  a  glass  dish.  Dissolve  one  and  a 
half  tablespoonfuls  gelatine  in  warm  water,  and  when  dissolved 
pour  into  the  froth  and  .stir  fifteen  minutes.  Set  in  a  cold 
place  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  hours.  — Mrs.  D.  B. 

Bavarian   Cream, 

Soak  half  a  box  gelatine  in  cold  water  till  thoroughly  dis- 
solved.     Then  add  three  pints  milk  or  cream,  and  put  on  thff 


mmm^mM- 


TAPIOOA   OKBAM — SlTLLAfiUB.  427 

fire  till  scalding  hot,  stirring  all  the  while.  Then  take  it  off 
and  add  three  teacups  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  (by 
spooufuls)  stirring  all  the  time.  Set  on  the  fire  again  and  lei 
it  remain  till  quite  hot.  Then  take  it  off  and  add  the  eight 
beaten  whites  and  eight  teaspoonfulu  vanilla.  Put  into  moulds 
to  cool. — Mrs,  i\r.  A.  Jj, 

Tapioca  Cream. 

Three  tablespoon fuls  tapioca,  one  quart  milk,  three  eggs,  one 
cupful  sugar.     Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Soak  the  tapioca,  in  a  little  water,  overnight  After  rinsing, 
put  it  in  milk  and  let  it  cook  soft.  Add  sugar  and  yolks  of 
eggs.  Whip  the  whites  stiff  and  pour  on  the  tapioca,  as  you  re- 
move it  from  the  fire,  ft  should  be  cooked  in  a  tin  pail,  set  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  to  prevent  the  milk  from  scorching. 
Eat  cold.— Mrs.  Q.  W.  P. 

Tapioca- 

Boil  the  pearl  tapioca  (not  the  lump  kind)  as  you  do  rice. 
When  cool,  sweeten  to  the  taste  and  season  witli  nutmeg.  Pour 
ricl)  cream  over  it  and  stir  it  to  ma'ke  it  smooth.  J'ut  one  pint 
cream  to  two  tablespoonfuls  before  boiling. — Mrs.  J.  IL  T, 

Lemon  Froth. 

Dissolve  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  then  add 
a  pint  of  cold  water.  In  winter  three  pints  may  bo  used  in- 
stead of  two. 

Add  the  juice  of  six  lemons  and  the  rind ;  cut  them  as  for 
j(:*ly.  Let  it  stand  till  it  begins  to  harden.  Then  take  out  the 
rind  and  add  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
Beat  them  into  the  jelly,  put  in  a  glass  bowl,  and  serve  in 
saucers. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

Syllabub. 

Half  a  pound  sugar,  three  pints  lukewarm  cream,  one  cupful 
wine     Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  wine,  then  pour  it  on  the  milk 


488  BLIP— APPLE  SNOW. 

from  a  height  and  sdowlj,  ao  as  to  cause  the  milk  to  froth. — 
Mrs.  JS. 

Sup. 

Odo  quart  milk  (warm  as  when  milked),  one  tablespoonful 
wine  of  the  rennet.  After  the  milk  is  turned,  eat  it  with  a 
dreaaing  of  cream,  sugar  and  wine. — Mrs.  Dr.  JB. 

BONNT-CLABBBR. 

Set  away  the  milk  in  the  bowl  in  which  it  is  brought  to  the 
table.  If  the  weather  is  warm,  set  it  in  the  refrigerator  after 
it  has  become  clabber. 

Help  each  person  to  a  large  ladleful,  being  careful  not  to 
break  it.  Eat  with  powdered  sugar,  nutmeg  and  cream. — Xts, 
8.  T, 

Float. 

To  a  common-sized  glass  bowl  of  cream,  sweetened  with  loaf 
sugar  and  flavored  with  wine,  take  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  three 
large  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  three  of  fruit  jelly.  Do  not  beat 
the  eggs  to  a  froth,  but  put  in  the  jelly  and  sugar  and  beat  all 
together. — Mrs.  T, 

Apple  Float. 

Mash  a  quart  cooked  or  coddled  apples  smooth  through  a 
sieve ;  sweeten  with  six  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  flavor  with 
nutmeg.  Then  add  the  apples,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  to  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten.  Put  a  pint  of  cream,  seasoned 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  at  the  bottom  of  your  dish,  and  put  the 
apples  on  top. — Mrs.  I,  H, 

Apple  Snow. 

Pare  and  slice  one  dozen  large  apples ;  stew  them  perfectly 
done,  and  run  through  a  colander.  Then  add  whites  of  twelve 
eggB)  beaten  to  a  stiff  fi-otli,  and  one  pound  white  sugar.  Eat 
with  sweet  ci*eam. 


A   NIOB  DE68EBT  OF  APPLES BAKED    AP1*LKB.  429 

A  Nice  Dessert  of  Apples. 

Pare  and  weigh  two  pounds  green  apples.  Cut  them  in  small 
pieces,  and  drop  them  in  a  rich  syrup,  made  of  a  pound  and  a 
quai'ter  of  ^'  A"  sugar  and  a  little  water.  As  soon  as  the  syrup 
begins  to  boil,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  large  lemon 
or  two  small  ones. 

Boil  till  the  apples  become  a  solid  mass.  Turn  out  in  a  wet 
mould  to  stand  till  cold.  Serve  on  a  dish  surrounded  with 
boiled  custard,  or  eat  with  seasoned  cream. — Mrs,  A.  F, 

A  Nice,  Plain  Dessert. 

Peel  and  slice  the  apples,  stew  till  done,  then  run  through  a 
colander  and  sweeten,  season.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  just  before  serving  whip  them  into  a  quart 
of  the  stewed  apples.     Eat  with  cream. — Mtb.  T. 

Apple  Compote. 

Pare,  core,  and  quarter  the  apples,  wash  them,  and  put  them 
in  a  pan  with  sugar  and  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Add  cin- 
namon,  and  lemon  peel  which  has  been  previously  soaked,  scraped 
and  cut  in  strings.  Boil  gently  till  done  ;  lay  in  a  deep  dish. 
Boil  the  syrup  to  the  proper  consistency,  and  pour  over  the 
apples. — Mrs.  Ji^, 

Nice  Preparation  op  Apples. 

Quarter  and  core  some  well-flavored  apples,  place  in  a  shallow 
tin  pan  or  plate,  sprinkle  thickly  with  white  sugar  and  a  few 
small  pieces  of  cinnamon.  Pour  on  enough  cold  water  to  half 
caver  the  apples,  and  scatter  a  few  small  pieces  of  butter  over 
them.  Cook  slowly  till  thoroughly  done,  then  set  away  to  cool. 
—3fr8.  MqG. 

Baked  Apples. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  keeping  them  whole.  Put  in  a  bak- 
ing-dish, and  fill  the  holes  with  brown  sugar.      Pour  into  eaob 


480      ICED  APPLBB — ^lOB  OBBAM  AND  FBOZEN  CITBTAfiD. 

a])ple  a  little  lemon  juioey  and  stick  into  each  a  piece  of  lemcxD 
peel.  Put  enough  water  to  prevent  their  burning.  Bake  til) 
tender,  but  not  broken.  Set  away  to  cool.  Eat  with  cream  oi 
custaixi.     They  will  keep  two  daya. — Mrs,  Dr,  J. 

Iced  Apples. 

Pare  and  core  one  dozen  fine,  firm  apples,  leaving  them  whole. 
Place  in  a  stewpan,  with  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew 
till  you  can  pierce  thom  with  a  straw.  Then  remove  from  the 
fire,  and  set  in  a  dish  to  cool.  Then  fill  the  centre  with  currant 
or  some  other  jelly,  and  ice  over  as  you  would  cake.  Serve  in  a 
glass  dish,  and  eat  with  rich  cream  or  custard. — Mtb,  A,  D. 


-•♦•- 


ICE  CREAM  AND  FROZEN  CUSTARD. 

After  having  tried  many  new  and  patent  freezers,  some  of  the 
best  housekeepers  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  old- 
fashioned  freezer  is  the  best.  It  is  well,  however,  to  keep  a 
patent  freezer  on  hand,  in  case  of  your  wanting  ice  cream  on 
short  notice ;  but  for  common  use  an  old-fashioned  one  is  the 
best,  especially  as  servants  are  so  apt  to  get  a  patent  freezer  out 
of  order. 

The  great  secret  of  freezing  cream  quickly  in  a  common 
freezer  is  to  have  the  cream  and  salt  in  readiness  before  break- 
ing the  ice  into  small  pieces  the  siz(9  of  a  walnut.  There  must 
be  a  space  of  two  inches  between  the  freezer  and  the  tub  in 
which  it  is  set.  Put  a  little  ice  and  salt  under  the  bottom  of 
the  freezer,  then  pack  alternate  layers  of  ice  and  salt  several 
inches  higher  than  the  cream  is  in  the  freezer.  If  there  is  no 
top  to  the  tub,  vrith  an  aperture  to  admit  the  freezer,  pin  a 
woollen  cloth  over  it  and  turn  the  freezer  rapidly.  When  the 
cream  l>egiu8  to  harden  on  the  sides  of  the  freezer,  cut  it  down 


lOB  OBBAM  Ain>  FROZEN  CU6TASD.  481 

with  a  knife,  scrape  from  the  sides,  and  heat  with  a  large  iron 
spoon.  Then  cover  again,  and  turn  i*apidly  till  it  is  as  hard 
as  mush.  When  the  ice  begins  to  melt,  drain  off  the  salt  and 
water,  adding  more  salt  and  ice,  which  must  be  kept  above  the 
level  of  the  cream  in  the  freezer.  When  done,  tie  large  news- 
papers over  the  tub  and  freezer.  Put  a  woollen  cloth  or  blanket 
over  these,  and  set  the  cream  in  a  dark,  cool  closet  till  wanted. 
In  this  way  it  may  be  kept  for  hours  in  summer,  and  for  days 
in  winter,  and  will  grow  harder  instead  of  melting.  As  cream 
can  be  kept  thus,  it  is  well  to  make  it  early  in  the  day  and  set 
it  aside,  leaving  more  leisure  for  other  preparations  that  are 
better  made  immediately  before  dinner. 

Ice  cream  making,  like  ether  branches  of  housekeeping,  is 
much  facilitated  by  having  all  the  ingredients  at  hand  before 
beginning  on  it.  As  such  explicit  directions  for  the  process 
are  given  in  the  subsequent  pages,  it  is  unnecessary  for  me  to 
add  anything  further  on  the  subject.  Unless  you  have  pure 
cream  to  freeze,  it  is  better  to  make  plain  boiled  custard  rather 
than  to  attempt  an  imitation  of  ice  cream. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  make  jelly  and  custard  at  the  same  time, 
so  that  the  yolks  of  eggs  not  used  in  the  jelly  may  be  utilized  in 
custard  either  boiled  or  baked.  The  same  proportions  are  gen- 
erally used  for  boiled  and  baked  custard.  Instead  of  flavoring 
with  extract  of  vanilla,  it  is  much  better  to  boil  a  vanilla  bean 
in  the  milk,  or  to  boil  some  peach  leaves  tied  up  in  a  piece  of 
muslin  (six  or  eight  leaves  to  a  quart  of  milk),  or  to  flavor  it 
with  burnt  sugar.  Never  flavor  custard  with  extract  of  lemon, 
when  you  can  obtain  fresh  lemons  for  the  purpose. 

When  you  have  no  yolks  left  from  making  jelly,  boil  a  quart 
of  milk  (flavored  by  the  above  directions).  Have  ready  thi*ee 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  together  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  into 
these  stir  a  teacup  of  powdered  white  sugar.  Dip  up  the  boil* 
ing  milk,  pour  slowly  on  the  eggs,  stirring  rapidly.  When  all 
the  milk  has  been  stirred  in  the  eggs,  wash  out  the  kettle,  put 
the  milk  %nd  eggs  back  into  it,  and  let  the  mixture  boil  till  it 


432  lOK  OBKAM — ^LEMON  IGK  ORBAM. 

begins  to  thicken,  when  it  must  be  taken  immedistelj  from  the 
fire,  poured  into  a  bowl,  and  stirred  till  cold  and  smooth. 

Many  persons,  before  freezing,  stir  in  the  frothed  whites  of 
three  eggs.  Tiie  same  directions  given  for  freezing  cream  apply- 
to  the  freezing  of  custard. 

Boiled  custard  should  never  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  cream 
in  making  fruit  ice  creams,  nor  should  it  ever  be  eaten  widi 
jelly. 

Ice  Cream. 

Dissolve  five  teaspoonfuls  Oswego  starch  or  arrow-root  in  a 
teacup  milk.  Add  to  it  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  frothed, 
and  the  yolk  of  one,  well  beaten. 

Sweeten  with  loaf  sugar  and  boil  half  a  gallon  new  milk.  As 
soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  pour  it  in  small  quantities  over  the 
mixture  of  eggs  and  starch,  til)  about  half  the  milk  is  taken  out 
of  the  kettle.  Then  pour  all  back  in  the  kettle  and  stir  a  few 
moments.  After  it  cools,  add  one  quart  rich  cream ;  season  to 
the  taste  and  freeze. — Mrs,  Dr.  E, 

Ice  Cream. 

Que  quart  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  com  starch,  one 
teaspoonful  arrow-root.     A  small  lump  of  butter. — Mrs,  JS.  J>, 

Ice  Cream. 

Ci*eam  one  tablespoonful  butter  from  which  the  salt  has  been 
washed.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch.  Dissolve  this 
in  half  a  gallon  new  milk,  heated,  sweetened  and  seasoned. 
Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  stir  in  just  before  freezing. — 
Mrs.  Mc  G. 

Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

One  gallon  rich  cream,  six  lemons,  first  rubbed  till  soft,  and 
then  grated.  Tie  the  yellow  peel,  which  has  been  grated  off,  in 
a  piece  of  coarse  muslin.  Cut  each  lemon  in  half  and  squeeze 
the  juice  from  it.     Sti*ain  the  juice,  and  soak  the  muslin  bag  of 


OBANOE  lOB  ORB^M — ^PBAOH  OBBAIC.  433 

lemon  peel  in  it,  squeezing  it  frequently  till  it  becomes  highly 
flavored  and  colored  by  it.     Then  add  two  teacups  of  sugar. 

In  sweetening  the  cream,  allow  a  teacup  of  sugar  to  each 
quart.  Pour  the  juice  into  it  slowly,  carefully  stirring.  Froth 
and  freeze,  reserving  a  portion  of  cream  to  pour  in  as  it  sinks 
in  freezing. — Mrs,  8.  T. 

Oranob  Icb  Cbeam. 

Four  oranges,  one  gallon  cream.  Rub  four  or  five  lumps  of 
sugar  on  the  orange  peel,  squeeze  the  juice  out,  put  the  lumps 
of  sugar  in  it  and  pour  into  the  cream.  Sweeten  heavily  with 
pidverized  sugar  before  freezing. — Mrs.  M. 

Stiiawbeuuy  Cubam. 

Four  quarts  thick  sweet  cream,  four  quarts  strawberries. 
The  berries  must  be  mashed  or  bruised,  caps  and  all,  with  a 
teacup  of  granulated  sugar  to  each  quart.  After  standing 
several  hours,  strain  through  a  thin  coai*se  cloth. 

Put  four  teacups  of  white  sugar  to  the  cream,  and  then  add 
the  juice  of  the  berries.  Whip  or  froth  the  cream  with 
a  patent  egg- whip  or  common  egg-beater.  Pour  two-thirds  of 
the  cream  into  the  freezer,  reserving  the  rest  to  pour  iu  after  it 
begins  to  freeze.  Raspberry  cream  may  be  made  by  the  same 
recipe. — Mrs.  S.  T, 

Pbach  Crbam. 

Take  nice,  soft  peaches,  perfectly  ripe.  Pare  and  chop  fine, 
make  them  very  sweet,  and  mash  to  a  fine  jam.  To  each  quart 
of  ]>eache8,  add  one  pint  of  cream  and  one  pint  of  rich  milk. 
Mix  well  and  freeze.  If  you  cannot  get  cream,  melt  an  ounce 
of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  water.  Boil  the  milk,  pour  it  on 
the  gelatine,  and  when  cold,  mix  with  the  peaches. — Jj,  D.  X. 

Pethch  Cream, 

To  two  quarts  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  add  two  teacups  of  sugar. 

Whip  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  patent  egg-whip,  one  with  a  wheel, 

87 


434  PINEAPPLE  lOK  CREAM — VANILLA   ICE   CREAM. 

if  couveuieut;  if  not,  use  the  common  egg- whip.     Thea  peel 
soft,  ripe  peaches  till  you  have  about  two  quarts.     As  you  peel, 
Kpriukle  over  them  two  teacups  powdered  white  sugar.     Mash 
quickly  with  a  silver  tablespoon,  or  run  through  a  colander,  if 
the   fruit  is  not  soft  and  ripe.     Then  stir  into  the  whipped 
cream,  and  pour  into  the  freezer,  reserving  about  one-fourth  to 
add  when  the  cream  begins  to  sink  in  fieezing.     When  you  add 
the  remainder,  first  cut  down  the  frozen  cream  from  the  sides 
of  the  freezer.     Beat  hard  with  a  strong  iron  spoon,  whenever 
the  freezer  is  opened  to  cut  down  the  cream,  till  it  becomes  too 
liard.     This  beating  and  cutting  down  is  required  only  for  the 
common  fieezer,  the  patent  freezer  needing  nothing  of  the  kind. 

Tie  over  the  freezer  large  newspapei*8,  to  exclude  the  air,  and 
set  aside  till  wanted. 

Apricot  cieam  may  be  made  exactly  by  this  receipt. — Mrg^ 
S.  T, 

Pineapple  Ice  Cue  am. 

Whip  two  quarts  rich,  sweet  cream  to  a  froth,  with  two  tea- 
cups powdered  white  sugar.  Use  a  patent  egg- whip  with  a 
wheel,  if  convenient ;  if  not,  use  the  connnon  egg- whip. 

Grate  two  ripe  j)ineapples,  and  add  to  them  two  ti^acups 
white  sugar.     When  well  mixed,  stir  into  the  cream. 

Pour  into  the  freezer,  reserving  one-fourth.  When  it  b.^gins 
to  freeze,  it  will  sink ;  then  beat  in  the  remainder  with  a  strong 
iron  spoon.  Beat  every  time  the  freezer  is  opened  to  cui  down 
the  cream  from  the  sides.  Never  cook  fruit  of  any  sort  to  make 
cream. — Mrs.  *S,  7\ 

Vanill.\  L  e  Ckeam. 

Boil  half  a  vanilla  bean,  cut  in  small  pieces,  in  half  a  ])int  of 
licii  new  milk.  When  codl,  strain  and  add  to  two  quails  thick 
sweet  cream.  Sweeten  with  two  heaping  teacups  powdered 
sugar,  and  whip  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  into  a  freezfjr,  reserving 
<»uc- fourth  of  the  cream.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  freeze,  stir 
fivm  the  sides  with  a  large  iron  spoon,  and  beat  hard.     Add 


NOItVBLL  HOUSE  OARAHEL  lOB  CBBAJC  435 

the  remaijung  cream  when  it  begins  to  sink.  Beat  everj  time 
the  freezer  is  opened.  When  frozen,  tie  newspapers  ove/  the 
freezer  and  bucket,  throw  a  blanket  over  them,  and  set  in  a 
close,  dai'k  place  till  the  ice  cream  is  wanted. — Mrs,  S.  T. 

^OBVELL  House  Caramel  Ice  Cream. 

One  gallon  rich,  sweet  cream,  four  teacups  powdered  sugar, 
five  tablespoonfuls  caramel.     Mix  well  and  freeze  hard. 

Caramel. 

Put  in  a  stewpan  one  teacup  nice  brown  sugar  and  half  a 
teacup  water.  Stew  over  a  hot  fire  till  it  burns  a  little.  If 
too  thick,  make  it  of  the  consistency  of  thiu  molasses,  by  adding 
a  little  boiling  water.     Bottle  and  cork,  ready  for  use. — 3/r«. 

J.  W.  11. 

Caramid  Jce  Crecmi. 

Three  quarts  cream,  two  pints  brown  sugar,  put  in  a  skillet 
and  stir  constantly  over  a  brisk  fire  until  it  is  dissolved. 
Be  careful  not  to  let  it  burn,  howevei*.  While  it  is  melting, 
heat  one  pint  milk,  and  stir  a  little  at  a  time  with  the  dissolved 
sugar.  Then  strain  it,  and  when  cool,  pour  it  into  the  ci*eam, 
well  beaten.     Then  freeze. — Mrs,  W,  O.  It, 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Half  a  pound  sweet  chocolate,  twelve  eggs,  one  gallon  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  arrow-root,  sugar  and  vanilla  to  the  taste. 
Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  one  pint  and  a  half  boiled  milk. 
Whip  the  eggs.  Mix  the  arrow-root  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
add  to  the  egg&  Then  pour  on  one  gallon  boiled  milk,  and  put 
on  the  fire  to  thicken.  When  cool,  season  and  freeze. — Mrs, 
D,  R, 

Cliocolate  Fee   Cream, 

Three  quarts  milk,  eight  eggs,  six  ounces  chocolate  dissolved 
in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  aiTOW- 
TOOt  well  mixed  in  cold  milk,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  browD 


436     GHOOOLATB  lOB  ORBAM — WHITE  lOB  CRBAIC 

sugar,  vanilla  to  the  taste.     Made  like  custard,  and  boiled  -very 
thick  —JftM  B.  D. 

ClMcoUUe  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  morning's  milk,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  chocolate, 
Obo  teaspoonful  vanilla,  sugar  to  the  taste.  Boil  as  for  table 
use.     When  ready  to  freeze,  whip  in  one  quart  rich  ci*eam. 

CocoANUT  Ice  Cream. 

One  pound  grated  cocoanut,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pint  ci-eam. 
Stir  the  grated  nut  gradually  into  the  cream.  Boil  gently,  or 
merely  heat  it,  so  as  to  thoroughly  get  the  flavor  of  the  nut. 
Then  pour  the  cream  into  a  bowl  and  stir  in  the  sugar.  When 
cold,  stir  in  three  pints  fresh  cream,  then  freeze. 

Cocoanut  Ice  Cream, 

One  cocoanut,  pared  and  grated.  Mix  with  a  quart  of  ct*eam, 
sweeten,  and  fi-eeze. — Mrs.  JE.  I, 

Cocoanut  Ice  Cream, 

One  grated  nut,  three  and  a  half  quarts  of  milk,  one  pint  of 
cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  arrow-root  mixed  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Sweeten  to  the  taste,  and  freeze. — Mrs,  D,  R, 

Gelatine  Ice  Ckeau. 

Soak  one-half  package  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  morn- 
ing's milk.  Boil  three  pints  of  milk,  and  while  hot,  pour  on  the 
gelatine,  stirring  till  dissolved.  When  cold,  add  two  quarts  of 
cream,  and  sweeten  and  season  to  your  taste.  Then  freeze.  It 
is  improved  by  whipping   the   cream   before   freezing. — Miss 

E.  T. 

White  Ice  Cream. 

Thrae  quarts  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  light,  three 
tablespoonfuls  arrow-root  mixed  in  a  little  cold  water  and 
added  to  the  eggs.     Boil  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  eggs,  eta 


ICB  ORBAM  WITHOUT  CREAM — ^FROZEN  CUSTARD.       437 

rrh(;n  put  on  the  fire  and  thicken  a  little.  When  nearly  cold, 
add  a  quart  of  cream.  Sweeten  and  season  to  the  taste  and 
freeze. —  Mrs.  D.  R. 

Ice  Crema  without  Cream, 

One  gallon  fnilk,  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  whites  of 
twelve  eggs  well  beaten.  Sweeten  and  scald  the  milk,  an<l 
pour  it  on  the  eggs,  stirring  all  the  time.  Put  it  in  the  kettle 
again  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Season  to  the  taste  and  freeze  at 
once. — Mrs.  E.  W. 

Bisque  Ice  Cream. 

One  half-gallon  of  freshly  turned  clabber,  one-half  gallon  rich 
sweet  cream,  one  good  vanilla  bean  boiled  in  one-half  pint  sweet 
milk,  sugar  to  the  taste.  Churn  this  five  minutes  before  freez- 
ing. One  can  of  coudensed  milk  may  be  used  with  less  clabber. 
Mrs,  H  Z.  S. 

Buttermilk  Cream. 

One  gallon  buttermilk,  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  whites  of  four, 
well  beaten  ;  three  pints  sweet  milk.  Boil  the  sweet  milk  and 
pour  on  the  eggs  ;  then  thicken,  stining  all  the  time.  When 
cool  stir  in  the  buttermilk  slowly,  season  and  sweeten  to  the 
taste,  then  freeze. — Mrs.  D.  JR. 

Caramel  Custard  {JFVozen). 

Make  a  rich  custard,  allowing  a  cup  of  nice  brown  sugar  to 
every  quart.  Stew  the  sugar  till  it  burns  a  little.  Then  mix 
it  with  the  custard  while  both  are  hot.  Boil  two  sticks  cinna- 
mon in  the  custard. — Mrs,  c7*.  J".  JB, 

Frozen  Custard. 

One  quart  fresh  milk,  eight  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately.  Put  the  milk  on  the  fire,  sweetened  to  the  taste, 
and  let  it  come  to  boiling  heat ;  then  take  it  off  and  add  the 
yolks.     Then  wash  the  kettle  and  put  the  custard  on  the  fir« 


438  WRfWm  OI78TABD — ^FLUH  PUDDIKO  QLAcL 

again,  and  let  it  boil  till  quite  thick.  Take  it  off,  and  when 
cool  enough,  add  the  whites.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla, 
and  freeze.  —Mis.  C.  N". 

Twelve  eggs,  one  gallon  milk,  four  lemons,  sugar  to  taste, 
freeze. —  l/r#.  Dr.  S. 

BiBQUB. 

Make  one-half  gallon  rich  boiled  custard,  allowing  six  eggs  to 
each  quart.  Add,  befora  taking  it  from  the  fire,  two  pounds 
of  macaroon  almondH.     When  cold,  freeze. — Mrs.  A.  /^ 

Plumbi^re. 

Make  a  rich  custard,  and  flavor  it  when  cool  with  wine  and 
exti-act  of  lemon.  When  half  frozen,  add  blanched  almonds, 
chopped  citron,  brandy  peaches  cut  up,  and  anj  other  brandied 
or  crystallized  fruit.  Make  the  freezer  half  full  of  custard  and 
fill  with  fruit. 

Frozen  Pudding. 

Forty  blanched  almonds  pounded  rather  fine,  one  ounce 
citron  cut  in  small  squares,  two  ounces  currants,  two  ounces 
raisins  stoned  and  divided.  Soak  all  in  two  wine-glasses  wiue, 
all  night.  Make  custard  of  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk.  If  cream, 
use  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  if  milk,  yolks  of  eight  eggs.  Make  a 
syrup  of  one  pound  white  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water.  When 
nearly  boiling,  put  in  the  fruit  and  wine  and  boil  one  minute. 
When  cool,  mix  with  the  custard.  Whip  whites  of  the  e^s  to 
a  stiflf  froth,  and  add  to  the  custard  and  syrup  after  they  are 
mixed.     Add  last  a  wine-glass  of  brandy. — Miss  JS.  Wi 

Plum  Puddtno  GlacI^. 

To  one  pint  cream  or  new  milk,  stir  in  thoroughly  two  table- 
spoonfuls  arrow-root.  Boil  three  pints  milk,  and  while  boiling 
add  the  cold  cream  and  arrow-root,  also  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  sugai*  to  the  taste.     When  cold  season  with  vanilla  lieaii| 


CBBAM  BHBBBBl' — ^A  NEW  BBOIPB  FOB  LEMOK  SHEBBHT.   439 

and  stir  iu  half  a  pound  cut  citron,  half  a  pound  currants, 
)ia1f  a  |K)und  raisins  cut  and  seeded.  Freeze  hard  and  serve  iu 
moulds. — Mrs,  21 

Cream  Sherbet. 

Tliree  quarts  water,  four  lemons,  whites  of  six  e^s,  one 
pound  and  two  ounces  sugar,  one  pint  sweet  cream.  Mix  one- 
half  the  sugar  with  the  cream  and  eggs,  which  must  be  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth ;  mix  the  rest  of  the  sugar  with  tlie  water  and 
lemons.     Mix  all  together  just  before  fi-eezing. — Mrs.  A.  JP. 

Lemon  Sherbet. 
Take  one  dozen  lemons,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  then  slice  the 
rind  and  pour  over  it  six  quarts  boiling  water.  Mix  three 
pounds  sugar  with  the  lemon  juice,  and  one  quart  milk,  brought 
to  a  boil  and  thickened  with  three  tablespoonfuls  aiTOW«root  or 
corn-starch.  Be  careful  to  remove  all  the  seed  and  most  of  the 
rind,  leaving  only  a  few  slices  to  make  the  dish  pretty.  After 
the  lemonade  begins  to  freeze,  stir  in  the  thickened  milk,  and 
the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

Ijeman  Sherbet. 

One  dozen  good  lemons,  whites  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
three  pounds  white  sugar,  one  gallon  water.  Stir  all  well 
together  and  add  one  quart  nice  fresh  cream.  Stir  often  while 
freezing. — Miee  -E  T. 

JOemon  /Sffterbet. 

Two  quarts  water,  four  large  lemons,  one  pound  and  a  half 
sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs.  Rub  some  lumps  if  sugar  on  the 
rind  of  the  lemons.  Powder  some  of  the  su^ar,  beat  it  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  lemonade  when  it 
begins  to  fi*eeze. — Mrs.  M. 

A  new  Recipe  for  Lemon  Siierhet 
Make  one  and  a  half  gallon  rather  acid  lemonade,  grating 


440  ORAKOE   SHKRBKT — ^PINEAPPLE   JCE. 

the  peel  of  three  or  four  of  the  lemons  before  straining  tbe 
juice  into  tlie  water.     Let  it  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Then  iiinke 
and  add  to  it  the  following  mixture :  pour  a  pint  cold   water 
over  one  box  gelatine  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour;  then  |K)iir 
over  it  one  pint  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  till  thoroughly 
dissolved.     Beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  with  two  pounds  pul- 
verized sugar  till  as  thick  as  icing;  then  churn  a  quart  rich 
cream  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pint ;  then  beat  the  fi  oth  of  the 
cream  into  the  egg  and  sugar.    Pour  in  gradually  the  lemonade, 
beating  all  the  time  so  as  to  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  freeie. 
DeUcious.— ifr*.  F.  G.  W, 

Orange  Sherbet. 

One  gallon  water,  twelve  oi-anges,  juice  of  three  lemona^ 
whites  of  six  eggs.  Kub  some  lumps  of  sugar  on  the  orange 
peel.     Mix  as  lemon  sherbet,  and  freeze. — Mrs.  M. 

Orange  Ice. 

One  dozen  orauges,  juice  of  two  lemons,  two  quarts  water; 
sugar  to  the  taste.  Kind  of  four  oranges  grated  on  sugar. 
Freeze  as  usual. — Mrs,  Q.  D.  X. 

Orange  Tee, 

Juice  of  nine  oranges,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  and  one-quar- 
ter pounds  powdered  sugar,  two  quarts  water.  To  be  frozen. — 
Mrs.  L  H. 

Pineapple  Ice. 

To  a  two-pound  can  of  pineapples  add  three  quarts  water, 
half  a  box  gelatine  (prepared  as  for  jelly),  juice  of  two  oranges, 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Remove  the  black  and  hard  pieces  of  pine- 
apple, then  pass  it  through  the  colander  by  beating  with  a  po- 
tato-masher.    Sweeten  to  your  taste  and  freeze. — Mrs,  I,  JK 

J^ineapple  Tee. 
One  large  pineaj  pie  peeled  and  finely  grated,  juice  of  one 


FINKAPPLB  ICE — GBLATINB  ICE.  441 

lemon,  two  quarts  water.     Sweeten  to  the  taste,  and  freeze 
hard. —Mrs.  &,  D.  L. 

Pineapple  Ice. 

Dissolve  oue  box  gelatine  in  one  gallon  water.  Beat  two 
pounds  pineapple  through  a  colander  with  a  wooden  pestle. 
Add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  two  oi'anges ; 
sweeten  to  your  taste,  but  add  more  sugar  than  is  required  for 
ice  creaui. 

Beat  six  eggs  separately  and  stir  in  the  mixture.  When  hali 
frozen,  beat  rapidly  half  a  dozen  times,  at  intervals. 

This  makes  two  gallons  when  frozen. — Mrs.  E,  T, 

Citron  Ice. 

Slice  citron,  pour  on  it  a  rich,  hot  lemonade,  and  fi-ee/e.  — 
Mrs.  E.  I. 

Easpberry  Ice. 

Three  quarts  juice,  one  quart  water.  Sweeten  heavily,  and 
after  putting  in  the  freezer  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten 
very  light  The  same  recipe  will  answer  for  currant  or  cherry 
ice. — Mrs.  M.  C.  C. 

Watermelon  Ice  (heautifvl  cmd  delicioua). 

Select  a  ripe  and  very  red  melon.  Scrape  some  of  the  pulp 
and  use  all  the  water.  A  few  of  the  seeds  intei-spersed  will  add 
greatly  to  the  appearance.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  freeze  as 
you  would  any  other  ice.  If  you  wish  it  very  light,  add  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  thoroughly  whipped,  to  one  gallon  of  the 
icing  just  as  it  begins  to  congeal.  Beat  frequently  and  verj 
hard  with  a  large  iron  spoon. — Jifrs.  J,  «7! 

Gelatine  Ice. 

Let  one  ounce  sparkling  gelatine  stand  an  hour  in  a  pint  of 
cold  water.     Then  add  three  pints  boiling  water,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  loaf  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pint  wine,  juice  of 
19* 


442  VMBROSIA P£ACUES   AND  CBBAM. 

three  lemons,  lind  of  two  leiuons.     Stir  all  these  ingi-cUientt 
and  fi*eeze  befora  allowing  it  to  congeal.     Delicious. 

Ambrosia. 

Pare  and  slice  as  many  oranges  as  you  choose,  in  a  glass  bowl 
Sprinkle  sugar  and  gmted  cocoanut  over  each  layer. — Mrs.  JV. 

Ambrosia. 

Gut  pineapple  and  orange  in  slices,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
put  in  a  deep  dish  alternately  to  form  a  pyramid.  Put  gnit<?d 
cojoanut  between  each  layer.  If  you  like,  pour  good  Madeira 
or  sherry  wine  over  the  dish. — Mrs,  T. 

Pineapple. 

Peel  and  slice  thin,  just  before  eating.  Sprinkle  pulverized 
sugar  over  it,  but  nothing  else,  as  the  flavor  of  this  delicious 
fruit  is  impaired  by  adding  other  ingredients.  Keep  on  ice  till 
wanted. — Mrs,  S,  T. 

Watermelons. 

K(tep  on  ice  till  wanted.  If  lacking  in  sweetness,  sprinkle 
]M»\vdered  sugar  over  them. — Mrs,  JS.  T, 

Cant  aleu  PES. 

Cut  out  carefully  the  end  with  the  stem,  making  a  hole  large 
oiLOugh  to  admit  an  apple.  With  a  spoon,  remove  the  seed. 
Fill  with  ice,  replace  the  round  })icce  taken  out,  and  place  on 
end.     Eat  with  powdered  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

Peaches  and  Cream. 

While  the  fir^t  course  is  being  served,  peaches  should  ha 
pared  and  split,  and  the  stones  removed.  Lay  in  a  glass  bowl 
and  sprinkle  liberally  with  powdered  sugar.  No  fruit  should 
be  sweetened  till  just  before  eating.  Oi*nament  tlie  edges  ot 
the  bowl  with  any  handsome,  glossy  leaves  couvenicnt,  and 
serve  ^  ith  cream. — Mrs.  S,  T, 


STUAWBBRBIB6 — ^PBERBBVBS  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES.      443 

Strawberries 

Should  never  be  washed  unless  sand  or  earth  adheres  to 
them.  Cap  carefully  while  the  first  course  is  being  served,  or, 
if  more  convenient,  you  may  cap  in  the  morning,  but  never 
sweeten  till  just  before  eating,  as  sweetening  long  beforehand 
extracts  the  juice  and  makes  the  fruit  tough.  Set  it  on  ice,  or 
in  a  refrigerator.  No  ice  must  be  put  on  fruit.  Serve  with 
cream  that  has  been  set  on  ice.  Decorate  the  edges  of  the  bowl 
with  strawberiy  leaves. 

The  same  directions  will  apply  to  raspberries,  blackberries, 
and  dewberries.  Whortleberries  may  be  washed,  picked,  and 
drained,  though  not  sweetened  till  dinner. — Mrs.  S,  T, 


-••♦•♦■ 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 

Always  make  preserves  in  a  porcelain  or  brasa  kettle.  If  the 
latter,  have  it  scoured  first  with  sand,  then  with  salt  and  vine- 
gar. Then  scald  it  and  put  in  the  sugar  and  water  for  the 
syrup. 

In  peeling  fruit,  throw  it  into  cold  water  to  keep  it  from 
turning  dark,  and  let  it  remain  there  till  you  are  ready  to 
throw  it  in  the  boiling  syrup.  Bear  in  mind  that  exposure  to 
the  air  turns  peeled  fruit  dark. 

]5oil  rather  quickly.  In  preserving  fruit  whole,  boil  it  a 
short  time  in  the  syrup,  take  it  out,  let  it  get  cold,  and  then 
put  it  again  in  the  kettle. 

Cut  sugar  is  best  for  preserves  which  you  wish  to  be  clear 
and  light-colored,  but  nice  brown  sugar  is  best  for  dark-colored 
jams  and  marmalades,  such  as  those  made  of  blackberries,  rasp- 
berries, whortleberries,  etc. 

The  best  peaches  for  preserving,  bi*andying,  or  pickling,  aie 
white  freestone  peaches,  not  quite  ripe  enough  to  eat  with 


444  8WBETMEAT  PBE8ERVS8. 

cream.  Pe&n  and  quinces  also  should  be  preserved  befoi'e  tbej 
are  quite  ripe  enough  for  eating.  They  should  be  parboiled 
before  eating.  No  fruit  should  be  over-ripe  when  pi-eservecL 
Damsons  and  blue  plums  should  be  slit  lengthwise  with  a  pen 
knife,  and  set  in  the  sun  before  preserving,  which  will  render 
it  easy  to  extract  the  stones.  Cherries  also  should  be  stoned 
I'efore  preserving.  A  piece  of  pa))er  dipped  in  brandy  and  laid 
'^£L  top  the  preserves  will  help  to  keep  them.  I  would  suggest 
to  housekeepers  that  they  always  put  their  preserves  in  glass 
jars  with  screw  tops.  By  this  means  they  can  readily  inspect 
it  and  see  if  it  is  keeping  well,  without  the  trouble  of  untying 
the  jar  and  looking  inside,  as  would  be  necessary  in  the  case  of 
stone  jars. 

Set  the  jar  of  preserves,  if  they  become  dry  or  candied,  in  a 
pot  of  cold  water,  which  allow  to  come  gradually  to  a  boil.  If 
the  preserves  ferment,  boil  them  over  with  more  sugar. 

The  great  secret  of  making  nice  fruit  jelly  is  to  boil  the  syrup 
well  before  adding  the  sugar  (which  should  always  be  loaf  or 
cut),  and  you  should  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  the 
juice  in  acid  fruit  jellies,  though  less  will  answer  for  sweet 
fruit.  By  boiling  the  syrup  well  before  adding  the  sugar,  the 
flavor  and  color  of  the  fruit  are  retained.  Keep  the  jelly  in 
small,  common  glasses. 

Sweetmeat  Preserves. 

Cut  the  rind  in  any  shapes  fancied  (such  as  flowers,  fruits, 
leaves,  grapes,  fish,  etc.),  put  it  in  brine  strong  enough  to  float 
an  egg,  cover  closely  with  grape  leaves,  and  set  away  the  jar. 
When  ready  to  make  the  preserves,  soak  the  rind  in  fresh 
water,  changing  it  till  all  taste  of  salt  is  removed  from  the  riiuL 
Dissolve  four  tablespoonfuls  pulverized  alum  in  one  gallon 
water.  Lay  the  rind  in  this,  covei-ed  closely  with  grape  or 
cabbage  leaves.  Simmei  till  it  becomes  a  pretty  green,  then 
soak  out  the  alum  by  throwing  the  rind  in  soft  water. 

Four  boiling  water  on  half  a  pound  white  ginger,  and  let  it 


WATERMELON  OB  MUBKMELON  MABMALADB.  445 

stand  long  enough  to  soften  sufficiently  to  slice  easily  in  fchin 
pieces  (retaining  the  shapes  of  the  raoes  as  much  as  possible). 
Then  boil  it  an  hour  in  lialf  a  gallon  water,  and  add  one  ounce 
mace  and  two  pounds  best  cut  sugar.  This  makes  a  thin  syrup, 
in  which  boil  the  rind  gently  for  half  an  hour,  adding  water  to 
keep  the  riud  covered  with  syrup. 

Set  the  kettle  away  for  four  days  and  then  boil  again  as  be- 
fore,  adding  two  pounds  sugar  and  more  water,  if  necessary. 
Kepeat  the  boiling  six  or  seven  times,  till  the  syrup  is  rich  and 
thick  and  sufficient  to  cover  the  rind. 

The  quantity  of  seasoning  given  above  is  for  three  gallons 
i-ind.  Allow  two  pounds  sugar  to  each  pound  fruit.  This 
sweetmeat  keeps  indefinitely  and  never  ferments. — Mrs.  F.  M,  C, 

Watermelon  ob  Muskmelon  Marmalade. 

Weigh  twelve  pounds  rind,  previously  soaked  in  brine,  and 
the  salt  extracted  by  fresh  water,  parboil,  put  on  with  twelve 
pounds  sugar  made  into  a  thin  syrup,  and  boil  to  pieces.  Add 
the  peelings  of  twelve  oranges  and  twelve  lemons,  previously 
soaked  in  water,  cut  in  strips  and  boiled  extrmeley  soft,  the 
water  being  changed  three  times  while  boiling.  Stir  con 
stantly  from  the  bottom  with  a  batter-cake  turner.  Cook  very 
thick.     Put  in  wide-mouthed  glass  jars  — Mrs,  JS,  T. 

Rife  Muskmelon  or  Watermelon  Preserves. 

During  the  summer,  peel  and  slice  indifferent  cantaleupes 
(such  as  you  do  not  care  to  eat),  especially  sucli  as  are  not  quite 
ripe.  Throw  them  into  brine,  together  with  your  thickest  wa- 
termelon rinds,  peeling  off  the  outside  skin.  When  you  have 
enough,  weigh  them,  throw  them  in  fresh  water,  which  change 
daily  tilj  thn  salt  is  extracted.  Boil  in  a  preserving  kettle  till 
soft  enough  to  pierce  with  a  straw.  Make  a  syrup,  allowing 
one  pound  sugar  for  each  pound  fruit.  When  it  boils,  put  the 
rind  in  it  and  simmer  steadily  till  the  rind  is  transparent  and 
the  syrup  thick.     When  cool,  add  the  juice  and  grated  lind  of 


446      RlPff  MirSKMBLON  PBESBRYSB — ORANGE  PRE8EBV£8. 

twelve  lemons.  Let  it  stand  in  a  bowl  several  days, 
sti-ain  the  syrup  (which  will  have  become  thin),  boil  it  again, 
pour  over  the  rind,  and  put  the  preserves  in  glass  jars  with 
scraw  tops. — Mr9,  S.  T. 

Ripe  Muskmelok  Preservbs. 

Peel  and  slice  the  melons,  soak  them  twentj'-four  hours  in 
salt  water,  twenty-four  hours  in  alum  water,  and  twenty-four 
boura  in  fresh  water,  changing  the  latter  several  times.  Then 
make  a  strong  ginger  tea,  in  which  boil  them  slowly  till  they 
taste  of  ginger. 

Make  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pound  and  a  half  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit,  and  addiug  mace  and  sliced  ginger  (the  latter 
must  be  soaked  in  boiling  water  twelve  hours  before  it  is  wanted). 
Cook  the  melon  in  the  syrup  till  clear  and  tender.  Tou  may 
use  sliced  lemons  as  a  seasoning  instead  of  ginger. — Mrs.  R,  JL 

Pineapple  Preserves. 

Parboil  the  pineapples,  then  peel  and  cut  in  thick  slices, 
carefully  taking  out  the  cores,  which,  if  allowed  to  remain,  will 
cause  the  preserves  to  ferment.  Put  s  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit,  and  let  it  remain  all  night  to  make  the  syni]!. 
Boil  then  till  done,  without  adding  a  drop  of  water  to  the  syrup. 

—Mt9,  f.  a 

Orange  Preserves. 
Peel  a  thin  riud  off  the  oi-anges  and  make  a  hole  in  each  end, 
getting  out  all  the  seed.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let 
themstoml  till  next  morning.  If  the  water  tastes  bitter,  search 
for  seed.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them  every  day,  as  long  as 
the  bittei*ness  remains.  Boil  till  soft  enough  to  run  a  sti'sw 
through  them.  Add  a  pound  and  a  half  sugar  to  each  pound 
fruit.  Make  a  thin  syrup  of  half  the  sugar,  and  boil  the  oranges 
in  it  a  short  time.  Let  them  stand  in  the  syrup  three  days, 
then  pour  the  syru|  from  the  fruit,  put  the  rest  of  the  sugar  to 


OAAHGB  MARMALADE — 8LI0ED  LEMON  FRKSSRVES.     441 

ifc,  and  boil  it  down  thick.     Then  pour  it  over  the  fruit.     A 
few  lemons  added  is  a  great  iiuprovemeDt. — Mrs.  cTl  H, 

Obanoe  Marmalade. 

Peel  the  oi*anges,  taking  all  the  seed  and  tough  skin  out  df 
them.  Cut  the  peel  in  small  pieces,  put  in  cold  water  and  boil 
till  tender.  Make  a  syrup,  one  pound  sugar  to  one  pint  water. 
Put  a  i>ound  of  the  oranges  (mixed  with  the  peel)  to  a  pint  of 
the  syrup,  and  boil  all  for  two  hours. — Mrs,  C,  C.  McP, 

Orange  Mai*malade, 

The  day  before  making,  peel  one  dozen  oiunges  (no  matter 
how  soar  and  indifferent).  Throw  tlie  peel  in  a  bucket  of 
water,  take  out  the  seed,  cut  up  the  pulp  fine  with  a  pair  of 
old  scissors.  Then  take  the  peel,  cut  it  in  thin  strips  and  throw 
it  into  fresh  water.  Pare  and  slice  pippins  (or  any  other  nice 
apf»le).  Weigh  six  pounds  of  them,  stew  with  a  little  water  till 
perffjctly  done,  and  set  away.  Next  day,  run  this  pulp  through 
a  co^duder  into  a  preserving  kettle.  Add  six  pounds  sugar  and 
boil  fciDwly,  constantly  scraping  from  the  bottom. 

Tail  3  the  orange  peel  (which  should  have  been  left  in  soak  all 
nightj,  boil  till  perfectly  soft  and  free  from  bittomesR,  changing 
the  w.iter  three  times  while  boiling.  In  another  pieserving 
kettle,  simmer  this  with  the  orange  pulp  and  two  pounds  sugar. 
When  both  are  nearly  done,  turn  the  oranges  into  the  apples 
and  cook  them  very  thick.  Cool  in  a  bowl,  and  then  put  in  a 
glass  jar  with  a  screw  top. — Mrs,  8,  T. 

Sliced  Lemon  Preserves. 

Take  large,  firm  lemons,  not  quite  ripe,  cut  in  slices  one- 
quarter  inch  thick,  and  take  out  the  seed.  Soak  in  brine  a  week. 
Then  soak  several  days  in  clear  water,  changing  the  water  twice 
a  day.  When  all  the  salt  and  the  bitter  taste  are  exti'acted, 
weigh  the  lemons  and  boil  till  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a 
straw.     Make  a  thin  syrup,  allowing  one  pound  of  sugar  to 


448  LEMON  HABHALADE — PEACH   PRESEEYfiS. 

eaich  pound  of  fruit.     Put  the  lemons  in  and  let  thein  simmei 

slowly  a  good  many  hours.     Pour  into  a  large  bowl  and  let  it 

remain  there  several  days.     At  the  end  of  that  time  strain  the 

syrup  (which  will  have  become  thin),  put  the  lemons  in  it 

again,  and  boil  till  they  jelly.     When  cool  put  in  a  glass  jar 

with  a  screw  top.     The  same  recipe  may  be  used  for  oranges. — 

Mrs.  8,  T. 

Lemon  Marmalade. 

Every  housekeeper  should  keep  a  large  jar,  or  other  nice 
vessel,  filled  with  brine,  in  which  she  may  throw  lemon  peels 
after  being  deprived  of  the  grated  rind  and  juice,  used  for 
creams,  jellies,  etc.  These  may  remain  any  length  of  time,  to 
suit  one's  convenience.  Before  preserving,  soak  in  pui*e  water 
till  all  the  taste  of  salt  is  extracted.  Boil  till  soft  enough  to 
pierce  with  a  straw.  Then  put  in  a  preserving  kettle  nine 
pounds  cut  sugar  and  one  quart  water.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  add 
six  pounds  lemon  peel  and  three  pounds  nice  sliced  apples 
(pippins  are  best).     Boil  till  very  thick. — Mrs,  &  T. 

Lemon  Preserves 

May  be  made  of  lemon  peel,  prepared  exactly  by  the  above 
recipe.  Put  the  peel  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  keep  covered, 
while  boiling  in  clear  water,  till  you  can  run  a  straw  through 
it.  Then  throw  it  into  a  rich  syrup  (one  pound  sugar  to  one 
of  lemon  peel),  and  boil  a  long  time.  Put  in  a  bowl  till  the 
next  day ;  then  take  the  syrup  (which  will  be  somewhat  thin) 
and  boil  again  till  very  thick.  Pour  it  over  the  lemon,  and  when 
cold  it  will  be  jellied. — Mrs.  S,  T, 

Peach  Preserves. 

Pare  white  freestone  peaches,  not  quite  ripe.  Split  in  Iialf, 
lake  out  the  stones,  and  throw  the  peaches  in  a  bucket  of  water 
to  prevent  them  from  turning  dark.  Make  a  syrup  of  white 
sugar,  using  as  many  pounds  of  sagar  as  you  have  pounds  of 
peaches.     When  it  has  boiled  thick,  put  in  as  many  peaches  at 


PKAOH   PBBSEBVES — BRANDY   PEACHES.  449 

will  cover  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Let  them  boil  till  nearly 
done ;  then  take  them  out,  one  by  one,  in  a  perforated  spoon. 
Lay  them  in  dishes  and  set  in  the  sun.  When  all  the  peaches 
have  been  carried  through  this  process,  put  back  the  first  dish 
of  peaches  in  the  kettle,  taking  them  out  when  a  pretty  amber 
color,  and  so  on  till  all  have  been  boiled  twice.  Meantime  the 
peach-kernels  should  have  been  scalded  and  skinned.  Put  them 
ill  the  boiling  syrup,  which  must  be  kept  on  the  fire  tDl  very 
thick.  Put  the  peaches  when  cool  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  the 
syrup  over  them.  Li  a  few  days  examine,  and  if  the  syrup  has 
become  thin,  boil  again. — Mtb.  8.  T, 

Peaclh  jPreserves, 

Pare,  and  add  to  a  pound  of  peaches  one  and  one-quarter 
pounds  best  sugar.  Cook  very  fast  for  a  few  moments,  in  a 
porcelain  kettle.  Turn  out  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  muslin  or 
cambric,  set  in  the  sun,  stiiTing  every  day  till  they  seem  quite 
transparent.  They  i*etain  their  flavor  much  better  this  way  than 
when  cooked  on  tlie  fire.  Put  in  jars,  cover  with  paper  saturated 
with  brandy,  and  tie  up  tightly  to  exclude  the  air. — Mrs.  P,  Wi 

Peach  Marmalade. 

BoO  twelve  pounds  soft  peaches  in  a  little  water.  When  re* 
duoed  to  a  pulp,  nm  through  a  colander  and  boil  again  till  very 
thick,  constantly  scraping  from  the  bottom.  Add  half  a  pound 
sugar  to  one  pound  fruit.  Cool  in  a  bowl,  and  then  put  in  glass 
jars  with  screw  tops.  Pear  marmalade  may  be  made  by  t)ie 
same  recipe,  and  also  apple  marmalade,  except  that  you  flavor 
the  last  with  lemon  juice  and  rind. — JifrB.  S.  T. 

Brandy  Peaches. 

For  twelve  pounds  large  freestone  Heath  peaches,  not  quite 

ripe  and  delicately  pared,  make  a  syrup  of  four  pounds  sugar. 

Scald  a  few  peaches  at  a  time  in  the  syrup,  till  all  have  gone 

through  'Ms  process.     Place  on  dishes  to  cool.     Then  put  in 

38 


450  BRANDT  PBACHK8— CBAB  APPLE  PRK8KUVKS. 

glass  jars  and  add  enough  good  whiskey  or  brandy  to  the  syiap 
to  cover  the  peaches.  Any  spirit  will  do,  if  strong  enongh 
Add  a  few  blanched  peach -kernels.  In  a  few  days  see  if  more 
liquor  or  sugar  is  required.  If  so,  drain  off  the  syrup,  add  what 
is  needed,  and  pour  again  over  the  fruit.  It  is  a  mistake  to  put 
too  much  sugar.     Always  use  freestone  peaches. — Mr9.  &   T. 

JBrandy  I^eaches. 

Put  the  peaches  (a  few  at  a  time)  in  boiling  lye.  Let  them 
remain  five  minutes,  to  loosen  the  fur.  Then  take  them  out  and 
wipe  perfectly  clean  and  white.  Then  drop  them  in  cold  water. 
Boil  them  gently  in  a  rich  syrup  till  a  straw  will  pierce  them. 
Then  put  in  a  jar,  and  mix  equal  parts  of  French  brandy  with 
the  syrup.     Carefully  exclude  the  air. — Mrs.  ff.  -Z\r. 

Pear  Preserves. 

Scald  the  fruit,  but  do  not  let  it  remain  till  it  comes  to 
pieces.  Boil  till  clear,  in  a  syrup  made  of  as  many  pounds  of 
sugar  as  you  have  of  fruit. — Jirs.  Jl  Jl  A, 

Preserved  Apples  for  Winter  Use. 

Pai-e  and  slice  pippins.  Put  to  each  pound  apples  half  a 
pound  sugar,  and  to  every  eight  pounds  thus  sweetened  one 
quart  water,  a  few  cloves,  the  thin  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Stew  till  clear,  and  cat  with  cream. — Mrs.  S,  eZ!  JB. 

Apple  Manoe. 

Stew  and  mash  well  three  pounds  pippins,  then  add  three 
pounds  sugar.  Just  befoL*e  they  are  done,  add  a  few  drops 
lemon  juice.  Put  in  moulds  and  it  will  keep  two  years. 
Turned  out  and  sliced,  it  is  a  nice  dish  for  tea.  Qidroes  are  as 
nice  as  apples,  prepared  this  way. — Mrs,  JB,  J»  S» 

Crab  Apple  Preserves. 
Put  the  crab  apples  in  a  kettle,  with  some  alum,  keeping 


QUINCK  JAM— Oltl'lliKY   PKli:SKRVK8.  451 

tliem  scalding  hot  for  an  hour.  Take  them  out,  skin  and  ex- 
tract the  seed  with  a  small  knife,  leaving  on  the  stems.  Put 
them  in  cold  water  awhile,  then  take  them  out,  wipe  them  and 
put  them  in  a  syrup  made  of  as  many  pounds  sugar  as  you  have 
of  fruit.  Let  them  stew  gently  till  they  look  clear,  then  tuko 
them  out  and  let  tlie  syrup  boil  longer.  Siberian  crabs  may  bo 
preserved  in  the  same  way,  except  that  they  are  not  peeled  and 
cored. 

Quince  Jam. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  them  remain  till  the 
skin  rubs  off  easily.  Then  peel  them  and  cut  off  the  fair  slices. 
To  each  pound  put  twelve  ounces  sugar,  and  let  them  stew 
together  till  the  syrup  is  sufficiently  thick. 

Quince  preserves  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe  as  that 
used  for  pears. 

Damson  Pk£Serves. 

With  a  sharp  penknife,  cut  a  long  slit  lengthwise  in  each  dam- 
son. Spread  in  dishes  and  set  in  the  sun  till  the  seed  comes 
out  readily.  Then  boil  till  thoroughly  done  in  a  thick  syrup 
made  of  as  many  pounds  sugar  as  there  are  pounds  of  damsons. 

Preserve  green  gage  plums  and  other  plums  by  the  same 
nicipe. — Miss  I*. 

Fox  Grape  Preserves. 

Seed  the  grapes,  then  pour  scalding  water  on  them  and  let 
them  stand  till  cold  ;  then  draw  off  the  water,  put  one  pound 
sugar  to  one  pound  of  grapes,  and  boil  gently  about  twenty  min. 
utes. — 3frs»  A,  D. 

Cherry  Preserves. 

Wash,  pick  and  stone  the  cherries,  saving  the  juice.  Allow 
one  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  fruit.  Boil  the  juice  and  sugar 
to  a  thick  syrup,  then  put  in  half  the  cherries  and  stew  till 
nearly  done.  Take  them  out  with  a  perforated  spoon  and  lay 
on  dishes.  Pat  in  the  other  half,  let  them  stew  as  long  as  the 
first ;  then  take  out  and  lay  in  dishes.    Meantime  boil  tlie  syruf 


#52  8TRAWBBRRT   PKS6KRVK8 — ^FIO   PSE8KBYBB. 

gently.  When  the  cherries  are  oool,  put  them  again  in  the  synp 
and  boil  a  short  time.  Pour  in  a  large  bowl  and  cool,  then  pat 
in  glass  jars  and  cover  tightly. 

Scarlet  shoi-t  stems  and  large  wax  cherries  are  best  for  pre- 
serving.— Mrs.  S.  T, 

Strawberry  Preserves. 

Cap  the  berries.  Put  one  and  a  half  pounds  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit.  Let  them  stand  two  or  three  houL-s,  and  then  boil 
thirty  minutes. 

Strawberry  Jam. 

Cap  and  wash  the  berries,  and  put  them  on  to  stew  with  a  very 
small  quantity  of  water.  Stir  constantly.  When  thoi-oughly 
done  and  mashed  to  a  soft  pulp,  add  one  pound  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit.  The  advantage  of  adding  sugar  last  is  that  it  pre- 
serves the  color  and  flavor  of  the  fruit.  Stew  till  sufficiently 
thick,  scraping  constantly  from  the  bottom  with  a  batter-cake 
turner. — Mrs,  iS.  T, 

Raspberry  Jam. 

Wash  and  pick  the  berries,  boil  with  a  little  water,  mashing 
and  scraping  from  the  bottom  as  they  simmer.  When  reduced 
to  a  thick  pulp,  add  one-half  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  berries. 
Stew  till  very  thick,  scraping  constantly  from  the  bottom.  Cool 
in  a  large  bowl,  then  put  in  a  glass  jar  with  screw  top.  Black- 
berry, Dewberry,  and  Whortleberry  Jam  may  be  made  by  the 
same  recipe. 

Fig  Preserves. 

Pick  the  figs  fully  ripe  the  evening  before.  Cut  off  about 
half  the  stem,  and  let  them  soak  all  night  in  very  weak  salt  and 
water.  Drain  off  the  salt  water  in  the  morning  and  cover  them 
with  fresh.  Make  a  thick  syrup,  allowing  three-quarters  pound 
loaf  sugar  to  each  pound  fruit.  When  it  boils,  drop  the  figs 
carefiilly  in  and  let  them  cook  till  they  look  clear.  When  done 
take  from  the  fire  and  season  with  extract  of  lemon  or  ginger. 


TOMATO  PRBSEBYES — ^BBOIPB  FOR  PUTTINa  UP  FBUIT.   453 

The  figs  must  not  be  peeled,  as  the  salt  water  removes  the 
rough  aess  from  the  skin  and  keeps  the  fruit  fii-m  and  hard. — 
Jfias  A,  S. 

Tomato  Preserves  (either  ripe  or  green). 

The  iay  before  preserving,  peel  and  weigh  eight  pounds  pale 
^  dllo^ ,  pear-shaped  or  round  tomatoes,  not  quite  ripe ;  spread 
on  dishes  altei-nate  layers  of  tomato  and  sugar,  mixing  with  the 
latter  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  four  lemons.  In  the  morn- 
ing, drain  off  the  juice  and  sugar  and  boil  to  a  thick  syrup. 
Drop  in  half  the  tomatoes  and  boil  till  transparent.  Take  up 
with  a  perforated  spoon  and  put  on  dishes  to  cool.  Then  carry 
the  other  half  through  exactly  the  same  process.  Then  strain 
the  juice,  wash  the  kettle,  and  put  in  the  juice  again.  When  it 
boils  hard,  put  in  again  the  first  boiled  tomatoes.  Take  them 
out  when  they  become  amber  color,  and  put  in  the  rest.  When 
they  are  all  boiled  to  an  amber  color,  and  cooled  on  dishes,  put 
them  in  half-gallon  glass  jars,  and  add  the  syrup  after  it  has 
been  boiled  to  a  thick  jelly. — Jfra,  S.  T. 

Green  Toi£ATO  Sweetmeats. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  and  soak  them  a  day  and  night  in  salt  and 
water,  then  in  fresh  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  then  scald  in 
alum  water  with  grape  leaves.  When  taken  out  of  alum  water, 
put  in  cold  water  to  cook.  Scald  in  ginger-tea  and  again  put 
in  cold  water,  while  you  make  the  syrup.  To  each  pound  toma- 
toes put  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  sugar  and  a  few  races  of 
white  ginger.  Cook  the  tomatoes  till  clear,  the  syrup  till  thick. 
When  cool,  season  the  syrup  with  essence  q{  lemon  and  pour 
over  the  tomatoes. — Jfrs.  C  M, 

BSOIPB  FOR  PUTTOTO  UP  FrUIT. 

For  fruit  not  very  add,  weigh  one-quarter  of  a  pound  white 
sugar  to  one  pound  fruit  perfectly  ripe.  After  sprinkling  the 
fniit  with  sugar,  put  it  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  let  it  just 
come  to  a  boil.     Then  piit  it  quickly  in  glass  self-sealing  cans, 


454  OANDIED  FBUTT— OUBBANT  JULLY  WITHOUT  OOOKINO. 

being  careful  to  screw  down  the  tops  tightly. — Jfrt.  Ih-,  R 

T.R. 

Candied  Fruit. 

Preserve  the  fruit,  then  dip  it  in  sugar  boUed  to  a  candied 
thickness,  and  dry  it  Grapes  and  some  other  fruits  may  be 
dipped  in  uncooked. 

Lemon  Conserves. 
Wash  and  dry  ten  lemons.     Pare  the  yellow  rind  off  clear  of 
the  white,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  double  its  weight  of 
sugar.     Pack  closely  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  part  of  the  sugar. 
—Mrs,   T. 

Orange  Conserves. 

Cut  the  peel  in  long,  thin  stiips,  and  stew  in  water  till  all 
bitterness  is  extracted.  Drain  off  this  water  and  stew  again  in 
a  thick  syrup,  allowing  one  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  jieeL 
Put  away  in  a  cool  place  for  flavoring  puddings,  pies,  etc. 

Peach  Conserves. 

Pare  the  peaches  and  cut  them  from  the  stone  in  thick  slices. 
Make  a  syrup,  allowing  three-quarters  pound  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit.  Boil  the  peaches  and  put  them  on  dishes  to  dry. 
As  they  dry,  roll  them  in  granulated  sugar,  and  pack  in  jai^  or 
boxes. — Mr8,  Wi  P, 

Golden  Syrup. 

Five  pounds  white  sugai* ;  one  quart  water.  I/ct  it  boil  two 
or  three  minutes,  then  add  two  pounds  strained  honey.  It  will 
keep  for  months. — Mrs,  D,  C. 

Blackberry  Jelly. 

Crush  one  quart  blackbenies  with  one  pound  best  loaf  sugar. 
Cook  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  thick,  then  add  one  gill  best  brandy. 
Stir  it  while  over  the  fire,  then  put  it  in  pots. — Mrs.  JE". 

Currant  Jelly  without  cooking. 
Press  the  juice  froiu  the  currants  and  strain  it.     To  one  pint 


OtJBBANT  JKLLY — ^APPLK  JKLLY.  456 

jiiice  put  3ne  pound  white  sugar.  Mix  togethbc*  till  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Then  put  them  in  jars,  seal  them  and  expose  them 
to  a  hot  sun  two  or  three  days. — Mrs,  E, 

Currant  Jelly. 

Pick  ripe  curi'ants  from  the  stem,  and  put  them  in  a  stone 
jar.  Then  set  the  jar  in  an  iron  pot  and  let  the  fruit  boil  till 
the  juice  is  extracted.  Pour  in  a  flannel  bag  and  lei  it  drip 
through — without  squeezing,  however,  as  this  makes  it  cloudy. 

To  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  good  white  sugar.  Boil 
about  twenty  minutes  and  keep  it  well  skimmed.  Put  in  the 
glasses  while  hot,  and  sun  daily. — Mrs,  P,  W. 

Cranderry  Jelly. 
Wash  and  pick  the  cranberries,  put  them  in  the  preserving 
kettle  with  a  veiy  small  quantity  of  water,  cover  closely  and 
stew  till  done.  Pour  through  a  jelly  bag  or  coarse  towel,  with- 
out squeezing,  as  this  will  prevent  it  from  being  clear.  Measure 
and  pour  the  liquid  into  the  preserving  kettle.  Let  it  boil  up 
and  remove  the  scum,  then  add  the  sugar,  cut  or  loaf,  one  pound 
to  a  pint.  Boil  about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  jellies.  It 
preserves  the  color  of  fruit  jellies  to  add  the  sugar  as  late  as 
possible. — Mrs.  A  T. 

Apple  Jelly. 

Take  half  a  peck  of  pippin  apples,  wash  them  clean,  slice 
them  from  the  core,  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  a 
quart  of  water.  Boil  till  entirely  sofl,  then  sti*ain  through  a 
flannel  bag.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  white  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Boil  till  jellied.  Do  not  stir 
v*hile  boiling. — Mrs,  P,  W. 

Apple  JeUy, 

Pare  and  stew  sour,  juicy  apples  (Greenings  are  best),  in 
enough  water  to  cover  them.      Strain  as  for   currant  jelly. 


456  APPLE  JBLLT  >-OBAMOB    JELLY. 

Allow  a  poiind  of  sugar  for  ea4sh  pound  of  juice.  Put  tfaeoi 
together  and  strain.  Boil  four  or  five  minutes,  skimming  thof^ 
ofighly. — Mrs,  M.  JB,  JB. 

Apple  Jidly. 

Take  any  number  of  juicy  apples,  put  them  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  boil  to  rags.  Then  strain  them  through  a  cloth  or 
Aleve.  Put  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  each  pint  of  the  juice,  and 
boil  till  it  jellies.  Flavor  with  the  seed  beaten  in  a  mortar, 
and  put  in  while  the  apples  are  cooking. — JfrB.  O.  Wi 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. 

Slice  the  apples,  take  out  the  cores  and  seed,  as  they  make  the 
jelly  bitter.  Put  them  in  a  kettle  cover  with  water,  and  boil 
till  quite  soft,  keeping  it  well  skimmed.  Pour  the  pulp  in  a 
jelly  bag,  and  let  it  drip  through.  To  each  pint  of  juice,  add 
one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar.  Pour  in  the  glasses  while  hot 
Delicious  with  meats. — Mrs,  P.  W. 

Quince  Jelly. 

Make  the  same  as  apple  jelly,  only  do  not  pare  or  core  the 
fruit,  as  much  of  the  jelly  is  contained  in  those  parts.  Or,  yon 
may  take  the  sound  parings  and  coi*es,  stew  them  and  strain 
the  liquor  twice,  and  you  will  have  a  jelly  as  nice  as  that 
made  from  the  fruit.  To  each  pound  of  juice  allow  one  pound 
of  sugar.     Boil  fifteen  minutes. — Afra,  M.  B.  B, 

Orange  Jelly. 

Grate  the  rinds  of  two  Seville  and  two  China  oranges,  and 
two  lemons.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  six  oranges  and  three  lemons. 
Add  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  and  one-quarter  of  a 
pint  of  water,  and  boil  till  it  jellies.  Have  ready  a  quart  of 
isinglass  jelly,  made  quite  stiff.  Put  it  to  the  syrup  and  let  it 
boil  up  once.  Then  strain  it  and  put  it  in  a  mould. — Mr*.  V. 
P.  M, 


jully  obanges — guape  jelly.  45y 

Jelly  Ouanues. 

Dissolve  one  package  gelatine  in  one  cup  cold  water,  after- 
wards adding  two  cups  boiling  water  to  thoroughly  dissolve  it. 
Add  then  three  cups  white  sugar,  one-quai'ter  teaspoonful  cin- 
namon,  grated  rind  of  three  oranges,  juice  of  twelve  fine 
oranges.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  pitcher,  without 
shaking  or  squeezing.  Extract  the  pulp  from  the  orange,  by 
making  a  hole  in  one  end  of  it  lai'ge  enough  to  admit  a  mus- 
tard spoon.  Soak  the  rind  a  few  houi*s,  and  then  pour  the 
jelly  into  each  orange  through  the  whole  at  the  end.  Then  set 
aside  to  congeal.  Garnish  with  orange  leaves.  Gut  each 
orange  in  two.     A  very  ornamental  dish. — Mrs,  McQ-. 

Green  Grape  Jelly. 

Gather  Catawba  grapes  before  ripening.  Pick  them  from 
the  stem,  wash  them,  and  put  them  in  a  stone  jar.  Sot  the 
jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  over  a  hot  fire.  When  the  juice 
comes  out  of  the  grapes,  take  the  kettle  off  and  strain  the 
grapes.  To  each  pint  of  juice  put  one  pound  of  the  best  loaf 
sugar.  Boil  twenty  minutes  in  the  kettle.  Ripe  grape  jelly 
may  be  made  in  the  same  way. — Mrs,  E, 

Grape  Jelly. 

The  chief  art  in  making  jelly  is  to  boil  it  continuously,' slowly 
and  gently.  It  will  not  harden  well  if  the  boiling  stops,  even 
for  a  few  moments.  To  preserve  the  true  color  and  flavor  of 
fruit  in  jellies  or  jams,  boil  well  before  adding  the  sugar ;  in 
this  way  the  water  contained  in  all  fruit  juices  is  evaporated. 
Heat  the  sugar  before  adding  it.  In  making  gra|>e  jelly,  pick 
the  grapes  from  their  stems,  wash  them,  put  them  over  the  fire 
in  a  vessel  containing  a  little  water,  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing. Stew  a  few  moments ;  mash  gently  with  a  silver  spoon, 
strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice,  allow  one  pound  of  white 

Bugav*      After  the  juice  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  boil  twuuty 

8U 


<^58  BBMSDY   FOB  MOULDINB8S   IN   FRUIT  JKLLIE8. 

minutes,  pour  it  over  the  heated  sugar,  and  stii  coustantly  tafl 
all  is  dissolved.     Then  fill  the  jelly  glasses. — Jf.  I.  M. 

Remedy  pok  Mouldiness  in  Fruit  Jellies. 

Fruit  jellies  may  be  |)re.served  fi*oui  mouldiness  by  covering 
the  surface  one- quarter  of  an  inch  deep  with  finely  piilverixrd 
loaf  sugar.  Thus  jirotected,  thoy  will  keep  for  years. — Hdrs.  IL 
CM,  W, 

Tomato  Jelly. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  them  cai'efully,  cutting  out  all  the 
scams  and  rough  places.  To  every  pound  put  half  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Season  with  white  ginger  and  mace.  Boil  to  a  stiiT 
jelly,  then  add  enough  good  cider  vinegar  to  keep  it. — Jtfrs. 

Vr.  P.  a 

Sugar  Candy. 

Two  cupfuls  sugar,  one  cupful  water,  one  wincglassful  vine- 
gar, one  tablespoonful  butter.  Cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. — 
Mr8.  Dr,  e/I 

Sugar  Candy. 

Three  cupfuls  sugar,  half  a  cupful  vinegar,  half  a  cupful  water, 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Boil  without  stirring,  till  brittle.  Pour 
on  a  buttered  dish  and  pull  till  white  and  light. — Mrs.  McG. 

Sugar  Kisses. 

Wliisk  the  whites  of  four  ei^i^s  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stir  in  half 
a  pound  sifted  wliite  sugar.  Flavor  as  you  like.  Lay  it  wlien 
stiff  in  heaps  the  size  of  a  small  egg,  on  white  paper.  Lay  on  a 
board  half  an  inch  thick  and  pnt  in  a  hot  oven.  When  a  little 
yellowish,  slip  off  twD  of  the  kissos  with  a  knife  and  join  the 
bf>ttom  parts  together.  Continue  till  all  are  thus  jMVi>arr-(l. — 
Mrs.  R 

Nut  Candy. 

Make  sugar  ctuid}'  b}  one  of  tlu!  foregoing  rccvipts,  but  instead 


CiKEAM  CANDY — CARAMELS.  459 

of  poariiig  it  into  a  disb,  drop  it  at  iDtervals  over  a  butterei) 
dish.  On  eiich  bit  of  candy  thus  dropped,  lay  half  the  kernel  of 
an  English  walnut,  and  when  a  little  cool,  pour  half  a  spoonful 
of  sugar  candy  on  top.  Candy  of  almonds,  pecans,  or  palm  nutd 
may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. — Mrs,  S,  T, 

Cream  Candy. 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  water,  two  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  Sea- 
son with  lemon  or  vanilla,  just  as  you  take  it  off.  Put  in  a 
dish  and  stir  till  cold. — Jifrs,  McN, 

Molasses  Candy. 

Boil  one  quai*t  molasses  in  a  rather  deep  vessel.  Boil  stead- 
ily, stii-ring  from  sides  and  bottom.  When  a  little,  poured  in  a 
glass  of  cold  water,  becomes  brittle,  it  is  done.  Pour  in  a  but- 
tered dish  and  pull  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle,  or  you 
^may  stir  in,  when  it  is  nearly  done,  some  picked  kernels  of  the 
common  black  walnut.  Boil  a  little  longer,  pour  on  a  buttered 
dish,  and  cut  in  squares  just  before  it  gets  cold. — Mrs,  JS.  T. 

Caramels. 

One  cake  (half  a  pound)  of  Baker's  chocolate  broken  up, 
four  pounds  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound  fresh  butter,  one  pint 
of  milk.  Pour  the  milk  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  pour  the 
other  ingredients  into  this.  Let  it  boil  at  least  half  an  hour, 
stirring  fi*equently.  When  done,  a  crust  of  sugar  will  form  on 
the  spoon  and  on  the  side  of  the  kettle.  Pour  in  a  large  table- 
spoonful  extract  of  vanilla,  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  rapidly 
till  it  begins  to  thicken  like  mush.  Then  pour  quickly  into 
buttered  dishes  or  pans,  and  when  nearly  cold  cut  into  small 
squares. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Caramds, 
Three  pounds  white  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  chocolate,  one  pint 


460  CHOOOLATK  OARAMELB — COOOANUT  BALLB. 

milk,  six  ounces  of  butter.     Boil  three-quarters  of  an  Lour  and 
stir  constantly. — Mrs.  H.  C* 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

Two  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  three-quarters  pound  of 
chocolate,  one  quarter  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  milk  or 
ci'eam. — Mt9,  W,  C.  It, 

Cream  Chocolate. 

One  cupful  of  cream,  witli  enough  white  sugar  to  thicken  it^ 
Boil  till  thick,  and  when  cold,  roll  up  in  little  balls  and  put 
them  on  a  dish  on  which  has  been  poured  some  melted  choco- 
late. Then  pour  over  them  with  a  spoon  some  melted  choco- 
late. When  quite  cool,  cut  apart  and  trim  off  the  edges,  if 
uneven.  This  cream  should  be  seasoned  with  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla  and  the  dish  should  be  buttered. — Misa  JV, 

COCOANUT   CaKAMELS. 

One-quarter  pound  Baker^s  chocolate  (half  cake),  one-quarter 
pound  butter,  two  pounds  nice  brown  sugar,  one  teacup  rich 
milk.  Stew  half  an  hour  or  till  thick.  Add  a  grated  cocoanut. 
Stir  till  it  begins  to  boil  again.  Take  from  the  fii-e,  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  vanilla,  and  pour  into  buttered  dishes.  When 
cool  enough  to  handle,  make  into  balls,  the  size  of  a  walnut  and 
place  on  buttered  dishes. — Mrs,  JS.  T, 

Cocoanut   Caratnels, 

Pour  a  teacup  of  boiling  milk  over  one-quarter  cake  of 
pounded  chocolate.  Let  it  steep  an  hour,  then  add  one  and  one- 
quarter  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  the  luilk  of  a  cocoanut.  Boil 
till  perfectly  done.  Then  remove  from  the  lire,  adding  the  grated 
cocoinut.  Season  with  vanilla,  pour  in  buttered  dishes,  and  out 
in  blocks. — Mrs,  W.  (7. 

Cocoanut  Bal's. 
Wet  two  pounds  of  sugar  with  the  milk  of  a  cocoanut.    Boil 


OOOOANUT  DE0P8 — ^WINB-  461 

and  stir  til]  it  begins  to  granulate.  Then  stir  in  the  cocoanut 
grated  fine.  Boil  a  short  time  longer,  then  pour  into  butt3red 
dishes,  and  as  soon  as  it  can  be  handled  make  into  balls. — Mtb, 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

The  white  part  of  a  grated  cocoanut,  whites  of  four  eggs 
well  beaten,  one-half  pound  sifted  white  sugar.  Flavor  with 
rose  water  or  lemon.  Mix  all  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  ;  lay  in 
heaps  half  an  inch  apart,  on  paper  or  on  a  baking-pan,  in  a  hot 
oven.  Take  them  out  when  they  begin  to  look  yellowish. — 
Mrs.  JR. 

Almond  Macakoons. 

One-half  pound  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  with  a  tea- 
Bpoonful  essence  of  lemon,  till  a  smooth  paste.  Add  an  equal 
quantity  of  sifted  white  sugar  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Work  well  together  with  a  spoon.  Dip  your  hand  into  water 
and  work  them  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Lay  them  on 
white  paper  an  inch  apart,  then  dip  your  hand  in  watei  and 
smooth  them.  Put  them  in  a  slow  oven  for  three-quartera  of 
an  hour.  Oocoannt  may  be  used  instead  of  almonds. — Mrs,  M 
O. 


■♦♦•- 


WINE. 

Be  sore  to  get  perfectly  ripe  fruit  for  making  wine,  but  do 
not  gather  it  immediately  after  rain,  as  it  is  watery  then  and 
less  sweet  than  usual. 

Be  very  careful  to  stop  the  wine  securely  as  soon  as  fermen- 
tation ceases,  as  otheiwise  it  will  lose  its  strength  and  flavor. 
Watch  carefully  to  see  when  fermentation  ceases. 

Strawberry  wine  makes  a  delicious  flavoring  for  syllabub, 
cake,  jelly,  etc.,  and  so    does  gooseberry  wine.      Dewberries 


462  BLACKBKBBY  WINE. 

Diako  a  prettiei  and  better  wine  than  blackberries,  and  hAvo  all 
the  medicinal  virtues  of  the  latter. 

The  clearest  wine  is  made  without  straining,  by  the  following 
pix>cess :     Take  a  tub  or  barrel  (a  flour-barrel  for  instance),  and 
make  a  little  pen  of  sticks  of  wood  at  the  bottom.     On  top  of 
this  pen  lay  an  armful  of  clean  straw.     Bore  a  hole  in  the 
aide  of  the  tub  or  barrel  as  near  (;he  bottom  as  possible,  and  set 
it  on  a  stool  or  box  so  as  to  admit  of  setting  a  vessel  undei-nfrath 
it.  After  mashing  the  berries  intended  for  wine,  put  them  on  top 
the  straw,  and  let  the  juice  drain  through  it  and  run  through  the 
hole  at  the  side  of  the  tub  or  barrel  into  the  vessel  set  beneath 
to  catch  it.     Be  careful  to  have  this  vessel  large  enough  to 
avoid  its  being  overrun.     Any  open  stone  vessel  not  used  be- 
fore for  pickle  will  answer,  or  a  bucket  or  other  wooden  vessel 
may  be  used.     Let  the  berries  remain  on  the  straw  and  drain 
from  evening  till  the  next  morning.     Some  persons  make  a 
slight  variation  on  the  process  above  described,  by  pouring  hot 
water  over  the  berries  after  putting  them  on  the  straw.     After 
the  draining  is  over,  an  inferior  sort  of  wine  may  be  made  by 
squeezing  the  berries. 

The  following  process  will  make  wine  perfectly  clear :  To  a 
half-gallon  of  wine  put  two  wine-glasses  of  sweet  milk.  Stir 
it  into  the  wine  and  pour  it  all  in  a  transparent  half-gallon  bottle. 
Stop  it  and  set  it  by  for  twenty -four  hours,  at  the  end  of  which 
time  the  wine  will  be  beautifully  clear,  the  sediment  settling 
with  the  milk  at  the  bottom.  Poiir  off  the  wine  cai*efully  into 
another  bottle,  not  allowing  any  of  the  sediment  or  milk  to  get 
into  the  fresh  bottle.     The  same  directions  apply  to  vin^ar. 

Blackberry  Wine. 

Fill  large  stone  jars  with  ripe  black  or  dewbenies.  Cover 
thorn  with  water,  mash  them,  and  let  them  staiid  several  houi-s, 
or,  if  freshly  gathered,  let  them  stand  all  night.  Then  btrain 
through  a  thick  cloth  luid  add  three  pounds  white  sugar  to  each 
gallon  of  juice.     Let  the  wine  stand  a  fev-  days  in  the  jars. 


BLACKBERRY   M'INK.  463 

stirring  and  skimming  each  day.      Put  it  in  a  demijohn,  but 
do  not  cork  it  up  for  some  time. — Mrs,  M,  D. 

blackberry  Wtne, 

Measure  the  berries  and  braise  them ;  to  every  gallon  adding 
one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours, 
Btin  ing  Occasionally ;  then  strain  off  the  liquor  into  a  cask,  add- 
ing two  pounds  sugar  to  every  gallon.  Cork  tight  and  let  it 
stand  till  the  following  October,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  uai* 
without  further  boiling  or  straining. 

blackberry  Wvne, 

One  bushel  very  ripe  berries  makes  ten  gallons  wine.  Mash 
the  berries  as  fine  as  possible  and  pour  over  them  a  water>bucket 
of  clear  spring  water.  Cover  it  and  let  it  stand  twenty -four 
hours  to  ferment.  Next  day  strain  through  a  cloth,  aud  to  every 
three  quarts  juice  add  two  quarcs  clear  cold  water  and  five 
pounds  common  brown  sugar.  Pour  in  a  demijohn  or  runlet, 
reserving  some  to  fill  the  vessel  as  fermentation  goes  on.  After 
six  or  eight  days,  put  to  every  ten  gallons  one-half  box  gelatine. 
After  two  weeks,  cover  the  bung-hole  with  a  piece  of  muslin. 
Two  or  three  weeks  later,  cork  tightly  and  then  leave  undisturb- 
ed for  six  months.  After  that  time,  bottle  and  seal.  SSuperior 
currant  wine  may  be  made  by  this  recipe. — Mrs,  F, 

blackberry  Wine, 

Fill  a  large  stone  jar  with  the  ripe  fruit  and  cover  it  with 
water.  Tie  a  cloth  over  the  jar  and  let  them  stand  three  or 
four  days  to  ferment;  then  mash  and  press  them  through  a 
cloth.  To  every  gallon  of  juice  add  three  pounds  of  brown 
sugar.  Beturn  the  mixture  to  the  jar  and  cover  closely.  Skim 
it  every  moining  for  more  than  a  week,  until  it  clears  from  the 
second  fermentation.  When  clear,  pour  it  carefully  from  the 
sediment  into  a  demijohn.      (Jork  tightly,  set  in  a  cool  place 


464  ORAFB  WINB— CATAWBA  OBAPE   WDfK. 

When  two  months  old  it  will  be  fit  for  use. — Mrs,  Geru  R,  A. 
Lee. 

[Copied  from  a  recipe  in  Mrs.  Lee^s  own  handwriting.] 

GiiAPE  Wine. 

Take  auy  convenient  quantity  of  perfectly  ripe  grapes.  Masb 
them  so  as  to  break  all  the  skins,  and  put  them  in  a  tub  or 
otlier  clean  vessel,  and  let  them  remain  twenty-four  hours ;  with 
a  cider-press  or  other  convenient  apparatus,  express  all  the  juioe^ 
and  to  each  gallon  of  juice  thus  obtained  add  frt)m  two  to  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  white  sugar  (if  the  grapes  are  sweet,  two 
pounds  will  be  enough),  put  the  juice  and  sugar  in  a  k^  or 
barrel,  and  cover  the  bung-hole  with  a  piece  of  muslin,  so  the 
gas  can  escape  and  dust  and  inscctH  cannot  get  in  ;  let  it  remain 
perfectly  quiet  until  cold  weather,  then  bung  up  tiglitly.  This 
wine  will  need  no  clarifying ;  if  allowed  to  rest  perfectly  still 
it  can  be  drawn  off  perfectly  clear. — Mr,  Wi  A.  S. 

Chape  Wine, 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  bunch,  mash  thoroughly,  and  let 
them  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  strain  and  aild  three 
pounds  of  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  juice.  Leave  in  a  cask  six 
months,  and  then  bottle,  putting  three  raisins  in  each  bottle. — 
Mrs,  a,  L, 

Chape  Witie. 

Press  the  grapes,  and  when  the  juice  .settles,  add  two  pounds 
of  white  sugar  to  four  quarts  of  juice.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  drain,  put  in  a  cask ;  do  not  stop  tightly  till  the  fermen- 
tation is  over. — Mrs.  R.  A, 

Catawba  Grape  Wine. 

Mash  ripe  grapes  to  a  pulp,  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four 
hours.  Then  squeeze  through  a  cloth,  and  add  two  pounds  of 
sugar  to  each  gallon  of  pure  juice.  Put  in  a  cask,  leave  the 
bung  out,  and  put  coarse  muslin  over  the  hole  to  admit  the  air. 


OATAWllA  ORAPB  WINK — ^NATIVE  ORAPK   WINE.        463 

Let  it  stand  six  weeks,  or  till  fermentation  ceases.  Then  close 
the  iiioitth  of  the  cask  and  let  the  wine  stand  several  months^ 
after  which  it  may  be  drawn  oflF. — Mrs,  R,  D, 

Catawba  Grape  Wine, 

To  every  gallon  of  grape  juice  add  one  quart  of  cold,  clear 
water,  and  three  pounds  of  "  A  "  sugar.  Pour  into  a  runlet  and 
let  it  remain  uncorked  foui'teen  days,  and  then  cork  loosely. 
Add  half  a  box  gelatine  to  every  ten  gallons,  fourteen  days  after 
making  it.  At  the  end  of  a  month  tighten  tlie  cork,  then  let  it 
remain  undistiurbed  for  six  months,  after  which  it  may  be  care- 
fully racked,  bottled,  and  sealed. — Mrs,  Dr.  JS, 

Fox  Grape  Wine. 

To  every  bushel  of  fox  grapes  add  twenty-two  quarts  of  water. 
Mash  the  fruit  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Strain 
through  a  linen  or  fine  sieve  that  will  prevent  the  seed  from 
getting  through.  To  every  gallon  of  juice  add  two  poun'ls  of 
brown  sugar.  Fill  the  cask  not  quite  full.  Let  it  stand  open 
fourteen  days,  and  then  close  the  bung. — Mrs,  Gen,  H.  E  Lee, 

[The  above  was  copied  from  an  autograph  recipe  of  Mrs. 
Jjde\  kindly  fiuiiishecl  by  her  daughter.] 

Wild  Black  Grape  Wine. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stem  and  cover  with  water.  Mash 
and  strain  immediately.  Add  three  pounds  white  sugar  to  one 
gallon  juice.  Garden  grape  wine  is  made  in  the  same  way.  If 
you  prefer  a  red  wine,  let  the  water  stand  on  the  grajx-s  all 
night.    The  light  wine  is  the  best,  however. 

This  wine  has  to  be  kept  much  longer  than  blackberry  wine 
before  it  is  fit  for  use. — Mrs.  M.  D, 

Native  Grape  Wine. 

Pick  all  the  perfect  grapes  from  the  bunches,  wash  tliem  and 
pack  them  down  in  a  wooden  or  stone  vessel.     Pour  over  them 


466  OOOtfEBSBBT  WIMB-'OnRBAlilT  WINS. 

boiling  water — about  one  quai-t  to  every  bushel  of  grapes.  'He 
a  cloth  over  them  and  let  them  stand  a  week  or  ten  dajrsL 
Then  strain  it  and  add  three  pounds  sugar  to  every  gallon  jiiioe^ 
mixing  it  well.  Put  in  demijohns  and  tie  a  cloth  over  the  top. 
Let  it  stand  six  months,  and  then  cork  it  tightly.  The  wine 
will  be  fit  for  use  in  nine  months. — Mtb,  Dr,  S. 

Gooseberry  Wine. 

To  every  gallon  of  goosebenies  add  three  pints  of  boiling 
water.  Let  it  stand  two  days,  then  mash  and  squeeze  out  the 
juice,  to  every  gallon  of  which  add  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Put 
it  in  a  cask  and  draw  off  about  the  usual  time  of  drawing  off 
other  wines. — Jfra,  H,  T,  H,  A. 

Currant  Wine. 

Put  thi^ee  pounds  of  brown  sugar  to  every  squeezed  gallon  of 
currants.  Add  a  gallon  of  wat«r,  or  two,  if  juice  is  scarce.  It 
is  better  to  put  it  in  an  old  wine-cask  and  let  it  stand  a  year 
before  you  draw  it  off. — Mr9.  O^n,  R,  E.  Lee. 

[Copied  from  a  recipe  in  her  own  handwriting.] 

Currant  Wine. 

Mash  the  currants  well  and  strain  through  a  linen  towel. 
Add  a  gallon  of  water  to  every  gallon  of  juice.  Allow  three 
pounds  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  the  mixture.  Put  in  a  cask 
and  cork  loosely  till  fermentation  is  over.  Bottle  in  Septein* 
bar. — Mrs,  Dr,  8. 

Cwrrcmi  Wine, 

To  one  gallon  well  picked  and  washed  currants,  add  cue 
gallon  water.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  strain 
through  a  flax  linen  cloth.  Add  to  a  gallon  of  juice  and  water 
three  pounds  brown  sugar.  Let  it  stand  fourteen  days  in  a 
clean,  open  cask. — Mrs.  Dr.  JEJ, 


OHEBKY  WJNE — ^TOMATO   WINK.  467 

CuEBRY  Wine. 

Measure  the  benies  and  bruise  them,  adding  to  every  gallon 
one  quart  boiling  water.  Jjet  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  stir- 
ring  occasionally.  Then  strain  off  the  liquor,  put  in  a  jar,  add- 
ing two  pounds  sugar  to  every  gallon.  Stop  tightly,  and  let  it 
stand  till  the  next  October,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use  without 
straining  or  boiling. 

Strawberry  Wine. 

Mash  the  berries  and  add  to  each  gallon  of  fruit  a  half- 
gallon  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then 
strain  and  add  three  pounds  brown  sugar  to  each  gallon  juice. 
Let  it  stand  thirty-six  hours,  skimming  the  impuiities  that  lise 
to  the  top.  Put  in  a  cask,  reserving  some  to  add  as  it  escapes 
from  the  cask.  Fill  each  morning.  Cork  and  seal  tightly 
after  the  fermentation  is  over. — Mr 9,  E. 

Orange  Wine. 
One  gallon  juice  of  sour  oranges,  four  gallons  water,  twenty 
pounds  sugar.  Boil  it  and  clarify  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs; 
skim  the  liquid  till  the  scum  ha.s  disappeared.  Pour  into  a 
vessel  of  suitable  size,  taking  the  precaution  to  first  strain  it 
through  flannel.  Add  three-quarters  of  a  bottle  of  raw  juice 
and  let  it  ferment.  Bottle  in  six  months.  Put  less  sugar  if 
you  prefer  a  wine  less  sweet. — Mrs,  N", 

Cider  Wine. 

One  gallon  sweet  cider,  three  pounds  sugar.     Put  in  a  cask 

and  let  it  ferment.     Keep  the  vessel  full  so    that  it  will  run 

over.     Let  it  stand  fifteen  days.     Put   the   corks   in  a  little 

tighter  every  day.     Let  it  stand  three  months,  then  bottle  and 

8c  al  up. — M^8,  E,  JB. 

Tomato  Wine. 

Pick  small,  ripe  tomatoes  off  the  steins,  p\it  them  in  a  clean 
bucket  or  tub,  masli  well,  and  strain  through  a  linen  rag  (a 
bushel  will  make  five  gallons  of  juice).      Add  from  two  and  a 


468  EOONOO APPLE  TODDY. 

half  to  three  pounds  brown  sugar  to  each  gallon.  Put  in  a  cask 
and  let  it  ferment  like  raspberry  wine.  If  two  gallons  water 
be  added  to  a  bushel  of  toniatoes,  the  wiue  will  be  as  good. — 
Mrs.  A,  J9. 

EOGNOO. 

To  each  egg  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  wine-glassful  of 
milk,  one  wine-glassful  of  liquor.  The  sugar  and  yolks  to  be 
well  beiiten  together,  and  the  whites  (well  beaten)  added  by 
degrees.  To  twelve  eggs,  put  eight  glassfuls  of  brandy  and 
four  of  wine.  Put  the  liquor  in  the  yolks  and  sugar,  stirring 
slowly  all  the  time ;  then  add  the  whites,  and  lastly  the  milk. — 
Mrs.  F. 

Eggnog. 

Three  dozen  eggs,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  half  a  gallon  of 
brandy,  half  a  pint  of  French  brandy,  half  a  gallon  of  milk. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Stir  the  sugar  thor- 
oughly into  the  yolks,  add  the  brandy  slowly  so  as  to  cook  the 
eggs,  then  add  the  milk,  and  lastly  the  whites,  with  grated  nut- 
meg, reserving  enough  for  top-dressing. — Mrs.  P.  Wl 

■Eggnog. 

Take  any  number  of  eggs  you  wish,  beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
separately  and  as  light  as  possible.  Stir  into  the  yolks,  while 
beating,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg.  Then  pour  on 
the  yolks  and  sugar  a  small  wine-glassful  of  wine,  flavoivd  with 
a  little  vanilla,  to  each  egg.  On  that  pour  a  wine-glassful  of 
rich  milk  or  cream  to  each  egg.  Beat  the  whites  as  if  for  cake, 
then  beat  in  enough  sugar  to  make  them  smooth  and  stiff.  Stir 
this  into  the  eggnog  for  twenty  minutes,  and  grate  nutmeg  on 
the  top. — Mrs,  JR.  C. 

Apple  Toddy. 

Half  a  gallon  of  apple  brandy,  half  a  pint  of  French  brandy, 
half  a  pint  of  peach  brandy,  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  six 
apples,  baked  without  peeling,  one  pound  of  sugar,  with  enough 


APPLE  TODDY ROMAN   PUNCJH.  469 

hot  water  to  dissolve  it;  spice,  if  you  like.  This  toddy, 
bottled  after  straiuing,  will  keep  for  years,  and  improve  with 
age. — Mrs,  C.  C.  Mcl\ 

Apple  Toddy, 

One  gallon  of  apple  brandy  or  whiskey,  one  and  a  half  gallon 
of  hot  water,  well  sweetened,  one  dozen  large  apples,  wel. 
I'oasted,  two  grated  nutmegs,  one  gill  of  allspice,  one  gill  of 
cloves,  a  pinch  of  mace.  Season  with  half  a  pint  of  good  rum. 
Liet  it  stand  three  or  four  days  before  using.- -C7oZ.  8. 

Rum  Pu^'CH. 

Make  a  rich,  sweet  lemonade,  add  rum  and  brandy  to  taste, 
only  dashing  with  brandy.  It  must  be  sweet  and  strong. — Mrs. 
D.Ii. 

Regent  Punch. 

One  pint  of  strong  black  tea  (in  which  put  the  rind  of  four 
lemons  cut  very  thin).  Two  pounds  of  sugar,  juice  of  six 
lemons,  juice  of  six  oranges,  one  pint  of  French  brandy,  one 
pint  of  rum,  two  quarts  of  champagne.  Serve  in  a  bowl,  with 
plenty  of  ice. — Mrs,  C.  C,  McP, 

Tea  Punch. 

Three  cups  of  strong  green  tea  (in  which  put  the  rind  of  six 
lemons,  pared  very  thin),  one  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  juice 
of  six  lemons.  Stir  together  a  few  minutes,  then  strain,  and 
lastly  add  one  quart  of  good  rum.  Fill  the  glasses  with  crushed 
ice  when  used.  It  will  keep  any  length  of  time  bottled. 
Fine  for  hot  weather. — Mrs,  A,  B, 

Roman  Punch. 

Grate  the  rind  of  four  lemons  and  two  oranges  upon  two 
pounds  of  sugar.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  these,  and  let  it  stand 
several  hours.     Strain  them  through  a  sieve.     Add  one  quart 


470  ROMAN   PUNCH — ^DBWBKRRY   OORDIAL. 

of  diampagne  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  very  ligliL 
Freeze,  and  serve  in  hock  glasses. — Mrs^  C.  C  Mc  P. 

Roma/a  Funcit, 

To  make  a  gallon.  One  and  a  half  pint  of  lemon  juice,  linda 
of  two  lemons  grated  on  sugar,  one  pint  of  rum,  half  a  pint  of 
bi-andj ,  two  quarts  of  water,  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar.  A 
pint-bottle  of  champagne  is  a  great  improvement.  Mix  aU 
together,  and  freeze. — JWrs,  B,  C.  O. 

Blackberry  Cordial. 

Two  quarts  blackberry  juice,  one  pound  loaf  sugar,  fouc 
grated  nutmegs,  one-quarter  ounce  ground  cloves,  one-quarter 
ounce  ground  allspice,  one-quarter  ounce  ground  cinnamon. 
Simmer  all  together,  for  thirty  minutes,  in  a  stewpan  closely 
covered,  to  prevent  evaporation.  Strain  through  a  cloth  when 
cold  and  add  a  pint  of  the  best  French  brandy.  Soothing  and 
efficacious  in  tlie  summer  complaints  of  children.  Dose,  one 
teaspoonful  poured  on  a  little  poimded  ice,  once  or  several 
times  a  day,  as  the  case  may  require. 

Whortlebeny  cordial  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. 
€k>od  old  whiskey  may  be  used  for  either,  in  the  absence  of 
brandy. — Mrs.  Gen.  S. 

BlackbeiTy  Cordial. 

Half  a  bushel  of  berries,  well  mashed,  one  quarter  pound  of 
allspice  (pulverized),  two  ounces  cloves  (pulverized).  Mix  and 
boil  slowly  till  done.  Then  strain  through  homespun  or  flaunel, 
and  add  one  pound  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil 
again,  and,  when  cool,  add  half  a  gallon  best  brandy.  Good  for 
diarrhoea  or  dysentery.  Dose,  one  teaspoonful  or  more  accord* 
ing  to  age. — Mrs.  S,  JB, 

Dewberry  Cordial. 
To  one  quart  juice  put  one  pound  loaf  sugar  and  boil  these 


DKWBERBT   CORDIAL — CHERRY   CORDIAL.  471 

togeihei  fifteen  minutes.  When  cool,  add  one  gill  brandy ^  one 
tablespoonful  mace,  cloves,  and  allspice  powdered.  Bottle  and 
cork  tightly. — Mrs.  A.  D. 

Dewberry  Cordial, 

Two  quai-ts  strained  juice,  one  pound  loaf  sugar,  four  giated 
nutmegs,  one-half  ounce  pulverized  cinnamon,  one-quailer  ounce 
pulverized  cloves,  one-quarter  ounce  pulveiized  allspice.  Simmer 
aU  together  for  thirty  minutes,  in  a  saucepan  tightly  covered  to 
prevent  evaporation.  Then  stiuin  through  a  cloth,  and,  when 
cold,  add  one  pint  best  French  brandy.  Bottle  and  cork  tightly. 
—Mrs.  D.  JR. 

Strawberry  Cordial. 

One  gallon  apple  brandy,  four  quarts  strawberries.  After 
standing  twenty-four  hours,  press  them  through  a  cotton  Ixtg, 
and  add  four  quarts  more  of  berries.  After  twenty-four  hours 
more,  repeat  this  process.  To  every  quart  of  the  cordial  add 
ono  pound  of  sugar,  or  sweeten  it  with  a  syioip  made  as  follows : 
two  pounds  sugar,  one  pint  water,  white  of  one  egg  whipped  a 
little — all  boiled  together.  When  cold,  add  one  pint  syrup  to 
one  quart  cordial. — Mrs.  C.  F,  (7. 

Cherry  Cordial. 

Extract  the  juice  from  ripe  Morella  cherries  as  you  would  from 
benies.  Strain  through  a  cloth,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  and 
when  perfectly  clear,  boil  it.  Put  a  gill  of  brandy  in  each 
liottle,  cork  and  seal  tightly.  Will  keep  all  the  summer  in  a 
co<>]  place.     Delicious  with  iced  water. 

Cherry  Cokdial  or  Cherry  Brandy. 

Take  thi*ee  pounds  Morella  cherries.  Stone  half  and  prick 
tliu  rest.  Throw  into  a  jar,  adding  the  kernels  of  half  slighlly 
bruised.  Add  one  pound  white  sugar,  clover  with  brandy,  and 
lut  it  stiind  a  month. — Mrs.  M. 


472  mint  ookdiaxi — strawberry  vinegas. 

Mint  Cordial. 

Pick  the  mint  early  in  the  morning  while  the  dew  is  on  iL 
Do  not  bruise  it.  Pour  some  water  over  it,  and  then  drain  it 
off.  Put  two  handfulR  in  a  pitcher  with  a  quart  of  Frendi 
brandy.  Cover  and  let  it  stand  till  next  day.  Take  out  the 
mint  carefully,  and  put  in  as  much  more,  which  take  out  next 
day.  Add  fresh  mint  a  third  time,  taking  it  out  after  twenty- 
four  hours.  Then  add  three  quarts  water  and  one  pound  loaf 
sugar  to  the  brandy.  Mix  well,  and,  when  clear,  bottle. — ifrB. 
Dr,  •/: 

Strawberry  Acid. 

Put  twelve  pounds  fruit  in  a  pan.  Cover  it  with  two  quarts 
water,  having  previously  acidulatfjd  the  water  with  five  ounoes 
tartaric  acid.  Let  it  remain  forty-eight  houi^s.  Then  strain, 
taking  care  not  to  bruise  the  fruit.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add 
one  pound  and  a  half  powdered  sugar.  Stir  till  dissolved,  and 
leave  a  few  days.  Then  bottle  and  cork  lightly.  If  a  sUghf 
fermentation  takes  place,  leave  the  corks  out  for  a  few  day& 
The  whole  process  to  be  cold.  When  put  away,  the  bottles 
must  be  kept  erect. — Mrs.  Col.  R, 

Koyal  Strawberry  Acid. 

Dissolve  two  ounces  citric  acid  in  one  quart  spring  water, 
which  pour  over  three  pounds  ripe  strawberries.  After  stand- 
ing twenty-four  hours,  di-ain  the  liquor  off,  and  pour  it  over 
three  pounds  more  of  strawberries.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours  more,  and  again  drain  the  liquor  off.  Add  to  the  liquor 
its  own  weight  of  sugar.  Boil  three  or  four  minutes,  put  in 
cool  bottles,  cork  lightly  for  three  days,  then  cork  tightly  and 
seal. — 3lr8.  G. 

Strawberry  Vinegar. 

Four  pounds  strawberries,  three  quarts  vinegar.  Put  fresh, 
ripe  berries  in  a  jar,  adding  to  each  pound  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
fine,  pale  white-wine  vinegar.     Tie  a  thick  paper  over  them  and 


RASPBERRY    nNEOAR — RASPBERRY   AOID.  473 

let  them  remain  three  or  four  days.  Then  drain  off  the  vinegar, 
and  ponr  it  over  four  pounds  fi-esh  fruit.  After  three  days  drain 
it  again,  and  add  it  a  third  time  to  fresh  fruit.  After  drain- 
ing the  last  time,  add  one  pound  refined  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
vinegar.  When  nearly  dissolved,  stir  the  syrup  over  a  fire  till 
it  has  dissolved  (five  minutes).  Skim  it,  pour  it  in  a  pitcher, 
cover  it  till  next  day.  Then  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  loosely  for 
the  first  few  days.  Use  a  few  spoonfuls  to  a  glass  of  water. — 
Mrs.  M  P.  G. 

Raspberry  Yinkqar. 

Put  a  quart  red  raspberries  in  a  bowl.  Pour  over  them  a  quart 
strong  apple  vinegar.  After  standing  twenty -four  hours,  strain 
through  a  bag,  and  add  the  liquid  to  a  quart  of  fresh  berries. 
After  twenty-four  hours  more,  strain  again,  and  add  the  liquid 
to  a  third  quart  of  berries.  After  straining  the  last  tiuie, 
sweeten  liberally  with  pounded  loaf  sugar,  refine  and  bottle. 
Blackberry  vinegar  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. — Mrs. 

a  N. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. 

Put  two  quarts  ripe,  fresh  gathered  berries  in  a  stone  or 
china  vessel,  and  pour  over  them  a  quai*t  of  vinegar.  After 
standing  twenty-four  hours,  strain  through  a  sieve.  Pour  the 
liquid  over  two  quarts  fresh  berries,  which  strain  after  twenty- 
four  houi-s.  Allow  one  pound  loaf  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice. 
Break  up  the  sugar  and  let  it  melt  in  the  liquid.  Put  the  whole 
in  a  stone  jar,  cover  closely,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
which  must  be  kept  boiling  briskly  an  hour.  Take  off  the  scum, 
and,  when  cold,  bottle. — Miss  IT.  L. 

Baspbkrby  Acid. 

Dissolve  five  ounces  tartaric  acid  in  two  quarts  water,  and 

I»our  it  over  twelve  pounds  berries.     Let  it  stand  twenty-four 

hours,  and  then  strain  without  bruising  the  fruit.     To  each  pint 

dear  juice  add  one  pound  and  a  half  dissolved  sugar,  and  leave 

40 


474  LEMCN  YINEGAU — OBBAK  BEER. 

a  few  days.     If  a  nlight  fermentation  takes  place,  dek  j  corking 
a  few  days.     Then  cork  and  seal. — Mrs,  O. 

Lemon  Vikegar. 

Fill  a  bottle  nearly  full  of  strong  cider  vine^r.  Put  in  it 
the  rind  of  two  or  three  lemons,  peeled  very  thin.  In  a  week 
or  two  it  will  be  ready  for  use,  and  will  not  only  make  a  nice 
beverage  (very  much  like  lemonade),  but  will  answer  for  sea- 
soning.—Jlfr».  M.  C.  C, 

Lemon  or  Orange  Syrup. 

Put  one  pound  and  a  half  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juioe. 
Add  some  peel,  and  boil  ten  minutes,  then  strain  and  cork. 
It  makes  a  fine  beverage,  and  is  useful  for  flavoring  pies  and 
puddings.  The  juice  of  any  acid  fruit  may  be  made  into  a 
Byrup  by  the  above  recipe. 

Orgeat. 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  pound  sugar  to  one  pint  water.  Put  it 
aside  till  cold.  To  five  pounds  sugar  put  one  gill  rose-water 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  essence  of  bitter  almonds. — Mr8,  I,  H, 

Summer  Beer. 

Twelve  quarts  water,  one  quart  molasses,  one  quart  strong 
hop-tea,  one-half  pint  yeast.  Mix  well  and  allow  to  settle. 
Strain  through  a  coarse  cloth,  and  bottle.  It  will  be  good  in 
twenty-four  hours. — Mrs.  E,  W, 

Cream  Beer. 

Two  ounces  tartaric  add,  two  pounds  white  sugar,  three  pints 
water,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Boil  all  together.  Wlien  nearly 
cold,  add  whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  one-half  cupful 
flour,  and  one-half  ounce  essence  winlergreen.  Bottle  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  this  mixture  for  a 
tumbler  of  water,  in  which  put  one-quarter  teaapoonfdl  soda. 
—Mrs.  JS. 


LEMON   BEBR— CRAB   CIDER.  i'l6 

Lemon  Beer. 

Cut  two  large  leraous  in  slices  and  put  them  iu  ajar.  Add 
one  })Ound  white  sugar  and  one  gallon  boiling  water.  Let  it 
stand  tOi  cool ;  then  add  one-quarter  cupful  yeast  Lot  it 
stand  till  it  ferments.  Bottle  in  the  evening  in  stone  j\igs  and 
cork  tightly.— Jlfr«.  G,  W.  F. 

Ginger  Beer. 

One  and  a  half  oimco  best  ground  Jamaica  ginger,  one  and  a 
half  ounce  cream  of  tartar,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  two  sliced 
lemons,  four  quarts  boiling  water,  one-half  pint  yeast.  Let  it  fer- 
ment twenty-four  hours.  In  two  weeks  it  will  be  ready  for 
use.— Jfr8.  G.W.  P. 

Small  Beer. 

Fifteen  gallons  water,  one  gallon  bran,  one  and  a  half  gallon 
molasses,  one  quart  corn  or  oats,  one-quarter  pound  hops.  Let 
it  boil  up  once;  take  it  off  and  sweeten  with  the  aforementioned 
molasses.  Put  it  in  a  tub  to  cool.  When  a  little  more  than 
milk  warm,  add  one  and  a  half  pint  yeast.  Cover  it  with  a 
blanket  till  next  morning,  and  tlien  bottle. — Mrs.  M,  P, 

Mulled  Cider. 

To  one  quart  cider  take  three  eggs.  Beat  them  light  and 
add  sugar  according  to  the  acidity  of  the  cider.  When  light, 
pour  the  boiling  cider  on,  stirring  briskly.  Put  back  ou  the 
fire  and  stir  till  it  fairly  boils.  Then  pour  off. — Mr,  R.  H.  M. 

Crab  Cider. 

To  a  thirty*ga]}on  cask  put  one  bushel  clean  picked  grapes. 
Fill  up  with  sweet  cider,  just  from  the  press — crab  preferred. 
Draw  off  in  March,  and  it  is  fit  for  use.  Add  brandy,  as  much 
as  you  think  best. — Mt9.  A,  D, 


4.7A    THB  8IOX-ROOM — DIBT  AND  BSICBDIBS  FOB  THE  SICK. 


THE  SICK-ROOM— DIET  AND    REMEDIES   FOR 

THE   SICK. 

First  of  all,  let  me  say  that  after  a  i-eliable  physiciaii  has  beeo 
called  ill,  his  directions  should  be  strictly  followed,  and  his  in- 
structions should  be  the  law  in  the  sick- room.  Have  everv- 
thing  in  readiness  for  his  admLssiou  immediately  after  his  arrival^ 
as  his  time  is  valuaV)lc  and  it  occasions  him  both  annoyance  and 
loss  of  time  to  be  kept  waiting  outside  of  the  sick-room,  after 
reaching  the  house  of  the  patient. 

Pure  air  is  of  vital  importance  in  the  sick-room.  Many 
persons  exclude  fresh  air  for  fear  of  dampness,  but  even  damp 
air  is  better  than  impure.  Even  in  cold  weather,  there  should 
be  a  free  circulation  of  air.  If  there  are  no  ventilators,  let  the 
air  circulate  from  the  tops  of  the  windows,  rather  than  admit 
it  by  opening  the  door,  which  is  apt  to  produce  a  di<aft.  Mean- 
time keep  up  a  good  fire ;  if  practicable,  let  it  be  a  wood  fire, 
but  if  this  be  not  attainable,  have  an  open  grate,  with  a  coal 
lire.  The  sight  of  a  bright  blaze  is  calculated  to  cheer  the 
patient,  while  the  sight  of  a  dark,  close  stove  is  depressing.  By 
no  means  allow  a  sick  person  to  be  in  a  room  warmed  by  a  flue 
or  register. 

The  old  idea  of  darkening  the  sick-i*oom  is  exploded.  It 
should  be  darkened  only  when  the  patient  wishes  to  sleep.  If 
the  eyes  are  weak,  admit  the  sunshine  from  a  quarter  where  it 
will  not  fall  upon  them.  The  modem  science  of  physics  has 
come  to  recognize  sunshine  as  one  of  the  most  powerful  of 
remedial  agencies,  and  cases  are  not  rare  in  which  invalids  have 
been  restored  to  health  by  using  sun-baths,  and  otherwise  freely 
enjoying  the  sunshine. 

It  is  best  to  have  no  odors  in  the  sick-room  unless  it  be  bay 
mm,  German  cologne,  or  something  else  especially  fancied  by 
the  sick  person.  Where  there  is  any  unpleasant  exhalation, 
it  is  far  better  to  let  it  escape  by  properly  ventilating  the  room, 


THB  8IOK-BOOM — DIBT  AND  BBMBDIE8  FOB  THE  SICK.    477 

than  to  try  to  overcome  it  by  the  aid  of  perfumery.  In  fevei's^ 
'w^here  there  are  offensive  exhalations  from  the  body,  sponging 
"with  tepid  water  will  help  to  remove  the  odor,  and  will  also 
prove  soothing  to  the  patient.  In  winter,  expose  but  a  small 
portion  of  the  body  at  a  time,  in  sponging.  Then  rub  gently 
-with  the  hand  or  a  coarse  towel,  and  there  will  be  no  danger  of 
fche  patient^s  taking  cold,  even  in  winter. 

Be  careful  to  keep  warm,  soft  flannels  on  the  sick  person  in 
'winter.  In  summer,  do  not  keep  a  pile  of  bedclothes  on  the 
patient,  even  though  chilly.  It  is  better  to  keep  up  the  circu- 
lation by  other  means,  such  as  rubbing  or  stimulants.  Sctupu* 
lous  neatness  should  be  observed  about  the  bed-linen  (as  well 
as  the  other  appointments  of  the  sick-room).  Never  use  bed- 
quilts  or  comforts ;  they  are  not  only  heavy,  but  retain  the 
exhalations  from  the  body.     Use  soft,  fleecy  blankets  instead. 

The  nurse  should  watch  her  opportunity  of  having  the  bed- 
clothes taken  into  the  fresh  air  and  shaken,  and  the  bod  made 
\ip,  when  the  patient  has  been  lifted  up  and  set  in  an  easy-chair 
near  the  fire.  The  arrangements  about  the  bed  should  be 
quickly  made,  so  that  the  patient  may  be  able  to  lie  down 
i^ain  as  soon  as  fatigued.  Let  such  sweeping  and  dusting  as 
are  necessary  be  also  done  with  dispatch,  using  a  dust-pan  to 
receive  the  dust  from  the  carpet.  Avoid  clouds  of  dust  from 
the  carpet,  and  of  ashos  from  the  fireplace. 

The  nui*se  has  u  very  important  part  to  play,  as  physicians 
say  that  nursing  is  of  equal  importance  as  medical  attendance. 
The  nurse  should  be  careful  not  to  wear  a  dress  that  rustles, 
nor  shoes  that  creak,  and  if  the  patient  has  any  fancy,  or  any 
aversion  connected  with  colors,  she  should  regard  it  in  hei 
dress.  Indeed,  the  patient  should  be  indulged  in  every  fancy 
that  is  not  hurtful. 

The  nurse  should  be  prompt  in  every  arrangement.  Where 
blisters  or  poultices  are  to  be  used,  she  should  not  wait  till  the 
last  moment  to  prepare  them,  but  should  do  so  before  uncover- 
ing the  patient  to  apply  them,  or  even  broaching  the  subjecti 


47d  THE   SIOK-SOOM — DIET  AND  RKMBDIE8  FOR  THE  SICII. 

If  anything  painful  or  distasteful  has  to  be  undergone  bj  the 
|>Rticnt,  it  should  not  be  discussed  beforehand  with  or  before 
the  patient;  but  when  all  is  in  readiness,  with  cheerful  and 
soothing  words,  let  it  be  done. 

The  patient  should  never  be  kept  waiting  for  food,  medicine, 
bath,  or  any  other  requisite.  Every  arrangement  should  be 
made  beforehand  to  supply  his  or  her  needs  in  good  time. 
Crushed  ice  and  other  needful  things  should  be  kept  always  at 
hand,  so  the  patient  may  have  them  at  any  moment  without 
delay.  Especially  on  the  approach  of  night,  try  to  pixividv 
everything  needed  duiing  the  night,  such  as  ice,  mustaixi,  hot 
water,  kindling  wood,  a  large  piece  of  soapstone  for  the  feet, 
as  this  is  more  cleanly  and  retains  heat  better  than  other 
things  used  for  the  purpose.  Other  things,  such  as  the  nature 
of  the  sickness  may  call  for,  should  be  thought  of  and  pro- 
vided before  nightfall. 

As  the  sick  are  very  fastidious,  all  food  for  them  must  be 
pre]>nred  in  the  most  delicate  manner.  Do  not  bring  the 
same  ai'ticle  of  food  several  times  consecutively,  but  vary  it 
from  time  to  time.  Do  not  let  a  sick  person  have  any  article 
of  food  forbidden  by  a  physician,  as  there  are  many  reasons 
known  to  them  only,  why  dishes  fancied  by  the  sick  should  be 
inj  uncus. 

Avoid  whispering,  as  this  excites  nervousness  and  appre- 
hension on  the  part  of  the  sick.  Do  not  ask  in  a  moui-nful  tono 
of  voice  how  the  patient  is.  Indeed,  it  is  best  to  ask  Uie  sick  as 
few  questions  as  possible.  It  is  far  bettor  to  watch  their  symp- 
toms for  yourself  than  to  question  them.  Examine  for  youi'self  if 
their  feet  are  warm,  and  endeavor  to  discover  their  condition 
and  their  wants,  as  far  as  possible,  without  questions. 

In  a  case  of  illness,  many  well-meaning  persons  crowd  to  see 
the  patient ;  do  not  adi^it  them  into  the  sick-rooui,  as  it  is  ooth 
exciting  and  fatiguing  to  an  ill  person  to  see  company,  and, 
when  in  a  critical  condition,  the  balance  might  be  disastrously 
turned  by  the  injudicious  admission  of  viaitora.     Both  mind 


ABBOWKOOT.  479 

and  body  must  be  kept  quiet  to  give  the  patient  a  chance  for 
recovery.  When  well  enough  to  listen  to  conversation,  the 
patient  sliould  liear  none  but  what  is  cheerful  and  entertain- 
ing, never  any  of  an  argumentative  or  otherwise  unpleasant 
nature. 

I>o  nut  allow  the  patient  to  read,  as  it  is  too  great  a  tax  on 
the  sight  and  brain  before  convalescence.  Suitable  books,  in 
large  print,  are  a  great  resource  to  the  patient  when  arrived  at 
tliis  stage,  but  should  be  read  only  in  moderation. 

Driving  out  is  a  delightful  recreation  for  convalescents,  and 
they  should  be  indulged  in  it  as  soon  as  the  physician  pronoun- 
ces it  safe.     In  winter,  tlioy  should  be  canied  driving  about 
noon,  so  as  to  enjoy  the  sunshine  at  its  warmest,      [n  summer, 
the  cool  of  the  morning  or  evening  is  the  best  time  to  drive  them 
out ;  but  if  the  latter  time  be  chosen,  be  careful  to  return  imme- 
diately  after   sundown.      Make  arrangements  for  the  patient 
on  returning  to  find  the  room  thoroughly  cleaned,  aired,  and 
adorned  with  fresh  flowers  (always  so  cheering  in  a  sick-room), 
and  let  the  bed  be  nicely  made  up  and  turned  tlown.      [t  is  well 
to  have  some  little  refreshment  awaiting  after  the  drive — a  little 
CL*eam  or  milk  toddy,  a  cup  of  tea  or  cotfee,  or,  if  tin',  weather  be 
hot,  some  cooling  draught  perhaps  would  be  more  acceptable. 
It  is  well  to  keep  the  convalescent  cheured,  by  projecting  each 
day  some  new  and  pleasant  little  plan  for  the  morrow. 

Arrowroot. 

Break  an  egg.  Sepai'ate  the  yolk  and  white.  Whip  each  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  and  a  little 
water  to  the  yolk.  Rub  till  smooth  and  free  from  lumps.  Pour 
■lowly  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time. 
liSt  it  simmer  till  jelly-like.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  French  brandy.  Stir  in  the  frothed  white 
and  take  hot  in  wintor.  In  summer,  set  first  on  ice,  then  stir 
iu  the  be^iten  white.  Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  water.— 
Mrs.  S,  2\ 


480  ASBOWBOOT — WINK  WHKT. 

Arrowroot 

Mix  one  tablespoouful  arrowroot  with  enough  cold  «ater  to 
make  a  pante,  fvee  from  lumps.  Pour  this  slowly  into  half  a 
pint  boiling  milk  and  let  it  simmer  till  it  becomes  thick  and 
jelly-like.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  add  a  little  nutm^  or 
tinnamon. — Mrs,  jB.  C.  M.  W, 

Seamobs  Farina. 

One  tablespoouful  in  one  quai*t  hot  water  makes  jellj ;  one 
tablespoouful  in  one  quart  milk  makes  blanc-mange.  Stir 
fifteen  minutes,  and,  while  simmering,  flavor  with  vanilla,  or 
lemon.     Suitable  for  sick  persons. — M,  L,  G. 

Racahaut. 
One  pound  rice  flour,  one  pound  cliocolate,  grated  fine,  two 
tablespoonfuls  arrowroot.  From  a  half-pound  to  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Mix  well  together  and  put  in  a  close  jar.  To  one 
quart  milk,  rub  in  four  dessertspoonfuls  of  the  above  mixture. 
Give  it  a  boil  up  and  season  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  JT.  S.  2\ 

Crackkd  Wheat. 

Soak  the  wheat  in  cold  water  all  night.  Pour  oflT  this  water 
in  the  morning.  Pour  boiling  water  then  over  the  wheat  and 
boil  it  about  half  an  hour,  adding  salt  and  butter.  Eat  with 
cream. — Mrs,  A,  M, 

Breakfast  for  an  Invalid. 
Bread  twelve  hours  old,  an  egg  and  black  tea. — Mm.  A* 

Food  for  a  Sick  Infant. 

Gelatine  two  inches  square,  milk  half  a  pint,  water  half  a 
pint,  cream  one-half  to  one  gill,  arrowroot  a  teaspoonful.  Sweet- 
en to  the  taste. — Mrs,  J,  D. 

Wink  Whey. 
Put  half  pint  milk  over  the  fire,  and,  as  soon  as  it  begins  to 


MILK  PCTNOH — ^ESSKNCK   OF  CHICKEN.  4S1 

l>oil,  pour  slowly  into  it  a  wine-glabs  of  slierry  wine,  mixed  with 
&  teaspoonful  white  sugar.  Grate  into  it  a  little  uutiueg,  and 
ti&  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  again,  take  it  off  the  fire.  When 
cool,  strain  for  use. — Mrs,  R,  C,  M.  TF! 

Milk  Punch. 

Pour  two  tablespoonfuls  good  brandy  into  six  tablespoonfuls 

milk.     Add  two  teaspoonful s  ground   loaf  sugar  and  a  little 

grated  nutmeg.     An  adult  may  tako  a  tablespoonful  of  this 

every  two  or  three  hours,  but  children  must  take  less. — Mrs.  li, 

CM.  W, 

Beef  Essence. 

Out  one  pound  beef  in  small  bits,  sprinkle  vdth  a  very  little 
salt,  tie  up  in  a  close  stone  jar,  and  set  in  boiling  water.  Boil 
it  hard  an  hour  or  more,  then  strain  it.  Chicken  may  be  pre- 
pared the  same  way.     Nice  for  the  sick. — Mrs.  Col,  W. 

Beef-Tea. 
Take  half  a  pound  fresh  beef  for  every  pint  of  beef-tea 
required.  Carefully  remove  all  fat,  sinew,  veins,  and  bone  from 
the  beef.  Cut  it  in  pieces  under  an  inch  square  and  let  it  soak 
twelve  hours  in  one-third  of  the  water  required  to  be  made  into 
tea.  Then  take  it  out  and  let  it  simmer  three  hours  in  the  re- 
maining two- thirds  of  the  water,  the  quantity  lost  by  evapoiii- 
tion  being  replaced  from  time  to  time.  The  boiling  liquor  is 
then  to  be  poured  on  the  cold  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was 
soaked.  The  solid  meat  is  to  be  dried,  pounded  in  a  mortar, 
and  minced  so  as  to  cut  up  all  strings  in  it,  and  mixed  with  the 
liquid.  When  the  beef-tea  is  made  daily,  it  is  convenient  to 
use  one  day's  boiled  meat  for  the  next  day's  tea,  as  thus  it  has 
time  to  dry  and  is  more  easily  pounded.  Avoid  having  it 
gticky  and  too  much  jellied,  when  cold. 

Essence  of  Chicken. 

In  a  case  of  extreme  sickness,  when  it  is  important  that  what 

little  nourishment  the  2)atient  can  take  should   be  highly  con- 

4! 


4S2  CHICKEN  JKLLT — DRY   TOAST. 

densed,  the  following  is  an  excellent  mode  for  concentrating,  iii 
a  small  coiopa&s,  all  the  nutritive  properties  of  a  chicken. 

After  picking  the  chicken,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it  and 
cut  it  in  ])ieces,  as  if  for  frying.  Put  the  pieces  in  a  small 
glass  jar  (or  wide-mouthed  bottle),  stop  it  tightly,  and  put  it  in 
a  pot  of  cold  water,  gradually  heating  the  latter  till  it  boils. 
Let  the  jar  of  chicken  remain  in  tlie  water  till  the  juices  are 
well  extractedi  then  pour  them  off  for  the  patient. — Jtfrs.  M. 

a  a 

Chicken  Jelly. 

Take  a  large  chicken,  cut  the  flesh  from  its  bones,  break  the 
bones,  soak  an  hour  in  weak  salt  and  water  to  extract  the  blood. 
Put  on  in  a  stewpan  with  three  pints  of  cold  water.  Simmer 
till  reduced  to  less  than  half  its  original  quantity.  Sprinkle 
a  little  salt  on  it,  and  strain  in  a  bowl.  Keep  on  ice, — Afrt. 
S.  T, 

A   NouKisHiNO  Way  to    Prepare  Chicken,   Squirrel,  ob 

Beef  for  the  Sick. 

Put  in  a  clean,  glazed  jar  or  inner  saucepan.  Set  this  in 
another  vessel  of  boiling  water.  Cover  closely,  and  keep  boil- 
in'*  for  hours.  Sciison  the  juice  thus  exti-acted  with  a  little 
salt,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  fi-esh  milk,  and  give  to  the  patient 

—Mrs.  T. 

Panada. 

Lay  six  nice  crackers  in  a  bowl.  Sprinkle  over  them  j)Ow- 
dered  sugar  and  a  jjiuch  of  salt,  adding  a  very  small  piece  of  fi-esh 
butter.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  crackers,  and  let  them 
remain  near  the  fire  half  an  hour.  Then  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
good  French  brandy,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  Madeira  wine,  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg. — Jfrs.  T, 

Dry  Toast. 

Slice  thin,  some  nice,  white  bread,  perfectly  sweet.  Toast  a 
li^ht  brown,  and  butter  with  fresh  butter. — Mf's.  S.  T, 


boaldkd  toast — abomatio  vinegar.  483 

Scalded  Toast. 

Prepare  and  toast  the  bread  as  above  directed.  Then  lay  in 
a  covered  dish  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it.  Turn  to  one 
side,  and  drain  out  the  water.  Then  put  fresh  butter  on  each 
slice^  with  a  small  pinch  of  salt.  Serve  in  a  covere<l  dish. — 
JUrs.  S.  T. 

Milk  Toast. 

Slice  the  bread  thin,  toast  a  light  brown,  butter  each  side, 
and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt.  Put  in  a  covered  dish,  and 
pour  over  it  boiling  milk. — Mn,  S.  T. 

Carolina  Small  Hominy. 

Wash  and  pick.  Drain,  and  soak  an  hour  in  cold  water. 
Drain  again,  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  with  one  pint  boiling  water 
to  one  })int  hominy.  Boil  till  dry  like  rice.  Eat  with  cream, 
Gutter  and  salt,  or  with  sugar,  butter  and  nutmeg. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

Dishes  Suitable  for  the  Sick 

May  be  found  in  various  parts  of  this  work,  such  as  rice  pud- 
ding, baked  custard,  and  various  preparations  of  tapioca,  sago, 
and  arrowroot.  Grapes  are  valuable  in  fever,  and  also  good  for 
chronic  sore-throat. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Thieves'  Vinegar. 

A  handful  of  sage  and  the  same  of  mint,  tansy,  rue,  rose- 
mary, lavender,  and  thyme ;  one  ounce  of  camphor.  Put  in  a 
gallon  demijohn,  and  till  with  good  vinegar.  Set  in  the  sun 
two  weeks  with  a  piece  of  leather  over  the  mouth,  then  stop 
tightly.  -^Mrs,  2>.  B. 

Aromatic*  Vinegar. 

Acetic  acid  (concentrated),  eight  ounces ;  oil  of  lavender 
(£ng.),  two  drachms ;  oil  of  rosemary,  one  drachm ;  oil  of  cloves, 
one  drachm ;  gum  camphor,  one  ounce.  Dissolve  the  camphor 
(bruised)  in  the  acid,  then  add  perfumes.     After  standing  e 


484  80DA   MINT — MUSTARD. 

few  days,  with  occasional  shaking,  strain,  and  it  is   i^cadjr  foi 

use. — Dr.  E.  A,  C, 

Soda  Mint. 

Bicarb,  soda  (Eng.),  one  drachm ;  pure  water,  three  oanoes  * 

spearmint  water,  four  ounces ;   glycerine,  one  ounce ;  ar.  spts. 

ammonia,  thirty-two  drops.    Mix  and  filter.     Dose,  from  twenty 

drops  to  a  tablespoon ful,  according  to  age. — Ih,  E.  A.  C 

Lime-Water. 
This  is  easily  prepared,  and  a  bottle  should  always  be  kept 
ready  for  use.  It  is  an  antidote  to  many  poisons  and  a  valua- 
ble remedy  in  a  sick-room.  Put  some  pieces  of  unslacked  lime 
in  a  bottle,  fill  up  with  cold  water,  keep  it  corked  and  in  a  cool, 
dark  place.  It  does  not  matter  about  the  quantity  of  lime,  as 
the  water  will  not  dissolve  more  than  a  certain  quantity.  It  is 
ready  for  use  in  a  few  minutes,  and  the  clear  lime-water  can  be 
poured  off  as  needed.  When  all  the  water  is  used,  fill  up  again, 
which  may  be  done  several  times  before  it  is  necessary  to  use 
fresh  lime. — Mrs.  T. 

Takrakt's  Effervescent  Seltzer  Aperient 

Is  an  invaluable  remedy  for  sick  headache,  nausea,  constipation, 
and  many  of  the  attendant  evils  of  dyspepsia.  Directions 
accompany  each  bottle.  Colic  and  other  violent  pains  of  the 
stomach  are  sometimes  instantly  relieved  by  adding  to  the  dose 
of  Seltzer  Aperient  a  teaspoonful  of  Brown's  Jamaica  Ginger. 

Brown's  Jamaica  Ginoer 
xs  not  only  an  invaluable  remedy,  but  a  i*efrcshing  and  delight- 
fill  drink  may  be  made  from  it  in  summer,  when  iced  lemonade 
would  be  unsafe  and  iced  juleps,  etc.,  would  be  too  heating  for 
one  suffering  from  over-fatigue.  Fill  a  goblet  with  crushed  ice, 
add  two  tea-poonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  of  Jamaica  gin« 
ger.     Fill  up  with  water,  stir  and  drink. — JIfra.  JS.  T, 

Mustard. 
It  is  not  safe  to  pass  a  day  without  mustard  in  the  houaOy  so 


mrSTABC  LEAVES  OB  FLA8TER8 — ^FOB  80BE-THB0AT.       48S 

valuable  arci  its  medicinal  properties.  When  a  large  plaster  is 
wanted,  put  into  a  plate  or  bowl  two  tablespoonfuls  ground 
mustard.  Wet  it  with  cold  water  and  stir  with  a  spoon  or  knife 
till  a  smooth  paste.  Lay  on  an  inverted  tea-board  a  piece  ofc' 
newspaper  twice  the  size  of  the  plaster  wanted.  On  one-half 
spread  evenly  and  thinly  the  mustard.  Fold  over  the  other  half 
and  fold  over  the  edges  as  if  to  hem  a  piece  of  cloth,  to  ])revent 
the  mustard  from  getting  on  the  skin  or  clothing.  lu  winter, 
warm  slightly  before  applying.  Keep  it  on  an  adult  fifteen 
minutes;  on  a  child,  half  that  time.  In  this  way,  painful  blis- 
ters will  always  be  avoided.  If  the  pain  is  in  the  chest  or  stom- 
ach, place  the  same  plaster  on  the  back  just  opposite,  and  let 
it  remain  on  twenty  minutes  the  second  time.  Colman^s  mus- 
tard is  considered  the  best  by  many  persons. 

Mustard  Leaves  or  Plasters. 

It  is  well  in  travelling  to  carry  a  package  of  these  plasters,  in 
case  of  sudden  sickness.  It  is  important  also  to  keep  them  at 
home,  as  sometimes  they  are  needed  suddenly  in  the  night,  and 
even  one  moment  gained  is  important  in  gi*eat  emergencies. 
Those  manufactured  by  Seabury  <b  Johnson,  N.  Y.,  are  con- 
sidered excellent  and  s\iperior  to  the  foreign  article. 

Compound  Syrup  of  Horehound  and  tar 

Is  excellent  for  coughs,  colds,  bronchitis,  and  diseases  of  the 
chest.     Manufactured  by  Faulkner  k  Oraighill,  Lynchburg,  Ya. 

For  Sore-Throat. 

Carbolic  acid  crystals,  pure,  half  a  drachm  ;  tincture  kino^  one 
drachm  ;  chlorate  potash,  two  drachms ;  simple  syrup,  half  an 
ounce.  Water  sufficient  to  make  an  eight-ounce  mixture.  Gar^ 
gle  the  throat  every  few  hours. — Dr,  T.  L.  W, 

For  Sore- Throat, 

Rub  the  throat  well  with  camphorated  oil,  and  gargle  fre- 
quently with  a  strong  solution  chloi*ate  of  potash. — Mrs.  /S,  T 


486  FOR  SORS-THSOAT — TIIK   OCEAN   SALT. 

For  Sore-  ThroaL 

(Tarbolic  acidy  fifteen  grains ;  chlorate  potash,  thirty  grains  ^ 
rose-water,  one  and  a  half  ounces ;  glycerine,  one-half  ounce; 
Use  as  a  gaigle,  three  or  four  times  daily. — Mr,  M.  C. 

A  Cure  for  Epilepsy  {one  I  have  known  to  succeed  in  many 

canes). 

Procure  the  fi^esh  root  of  a  white  peony.     Scrape  and  cut  in 

pieces  an  inch  square.     Eat  one  three  times  a  day,  never  taking 

any  food  after  four  p.m.     Use  a  month,  stop  two  weeks  aiid 

begin  again.     The  best  way  to  keep  the  root  is  to  string  it  on  a 

cord.     The  red  peony  will  do,  if  you  cannot  get  the  white. 

Jots,  Jh*  (J, 

Cure  for  Cramp. 

Wet  a  cloth  in  spirits  turpentine  and  lay  it  over  the  place 
where  the  pain  is  felt.  If  the  pain  moves,  move  the  cloth. 
Take  five  drops  spirits  turpentine  at  a  time  on  white  sugar  till 
relieved. — Mrs.  H, 

For  Cr4Mp-Colic,  or  Pain  Resulting  from  Disordered 

Bowels. 

One  teaspoonful  paregoric,  one  teaspoonful  Jamaica  ginger, 
one  teaspoonful  spirits  camphor,  one-half  teaspoonful  carbonate 
soda,  two  tablespoonfuls  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  whiskej. 
This  is  for  one  dose.     If  it  does  not  relieve  in  an  hour,  repeat. 

—Dr.  J.  T.  W. 

For  Chilblains. 

Take  common  furniture  glue  from  the  pot,  spread  it  on 
a  linen  rag  or  piece  of  brown  paper,  and  apply  hot  to  the  chil- 
blain, letting  it  remain  till  the  glue  wears  oE. 

For  Fresh  Cuts, 

Yamish  them  with  common  furniture  varnish.  This  remedy 
has  been  known  to  prove  very  efficacious. — Mr.  Wi 

The  Ocean  Salt 
Is  now  much   used   by  those  who   cannot  go  to  the  seaaide 


BREAST   8ALVB — PREVENTIVE   OF   SCARLEl'  FBVEB.      487 

Seventy-five  cents  for  half  a  bushel.     Dissolve  a  large  handful 
in.  a  pitcher  of  water.     Use  a  sponge  to  nib  the  flesh. — Mrs,  A, 

Breast  Salve. 

Linseed  oil  (I'aw),  four  ounces;  mutton  tallow, four  ounces; 
yellow  wax,  two  ounces ;  Burgundy  pitch,  one  ounce ;  Venice 
turpentine,  one  ounce ;  oil  lavender,  one-half  ounce ;  rosin,  onu- 
half  ounce. 

Melt  together  and  strain  through  flannel.  Spread  lightly  on 
a  soft  linen  mg,  apply  to  the  breast,  and  the  relief  is  almost  in- 
stantaneous.— Dt,  e.  a.  C. 

An  Excellent  Wash  for  Inflamed  Eyes. 

Sulph.  zinc,  two  grains  ;  wine  of  opium,  ten  drops  ;  distilled 
water,  one  ounce.  Mix.  Drop  two  or  three  drops  in  the  outer 
comer  of  the  eye  several  times  a  day. — Dr,  K,  A,  C 

Eye- Water  for  Weak  Eyes. 

One  teaspooiiful  laudanum,  two  teaspoonfuls  Madeira  wine, 
twelve  teaspoonfuls  rose-water. — Mrs.  E,  I, 

For  Earache. 
Equal  parts  of  laudanum  and  tincture  of  ai-nica.     Mix,  satur- 
ate a  piec^  of  wool  in  the  mixture,  and  insert  in  the  ear. — Dr. 

E.  A.  a 

Toothache  Drops.  {Sure  aire.) 
Moi7)hia,  six  grains ;  half  on  ounce  each  of  tincture  aconite 
root,  chloroform,  laudanum,  creosote,  oil  cloves,  cajuput.  Add 
as  much  gum  camphor  as  the  chloroform  will  dissolve.  Satu- 
rate with  the  above  mixture  a  piece  of  wool  and  put  it  in  the 
hollow  tooth,  being  certain  that  the  cavity  is  cleaned  out. — Dr, 

E.  A.  C. 

Preventive  of  S(jarlet  Fever. 

Extract  belladonna  (pure),  three  grains  ;  cinnamon- watts r,  one 

drachm  ;  distilled  water,  seven  drachms.     Mix,  label  poison,  and 

give  the  child  for  a  dose  as  many  drops  as  the  years  of  his  age. 

-Dr.  E.  A.  C. 


188  FOR  PRKVEHTINa  BOARLET  FBTRR — BURNS  AND  80ALJ». 

For  Preventino  Scarlet  Fever. 

Extract  belladonna,  six  gniins ;  cinnamon- water,  one  drachm ; 
white  sugar,  two  drachms;  nlcohol,  two  drachms;  puro  water, 
thirteen  drachms.  Mix  tlioroiighly  and  hibel  belladonna, j[>oi«om. 
Dose^  one  drop  for  each  year  of  the  child^s  age,  repeated  twice 
a  day.  — Dr.  E,  A.  C. 

To  Relieve  "Prickly  Heat." 

Sulphate  of  copper,  grains  ten ;  pure  water,  f •  §  l  Mix  aoL 
Apply  with  camel-hair  brush  daily  or  oftener. — J)r,  JB*  A.  G. 

For  Snake  Bites. 

Apply  ammonia  or  hartshorn  immediately  to  the  bite,  and 
swallow  ten  drops,  dissolved  in  a  wine-glass  of  water.  Said  to 
be  a  certain  remedy.-JIfr*.  T. 

Remedy  for  Chicken  Cholera. 

Dip  a  small  feather  or  brush  into  tincture  of  iodine,  hold  the 
chicken's  mouth  open,  and  mop  the  inside  of  the  throat 
thoroughly  with  the  iodine.  This  treatment  has  proved  suc- 
cessful whenever  tried. — Mrs.  N,  0, 

Mashed  Finger. 

Bind  up  with  old  linen  and  keep  constantly  wet  with  cold 
water.  If  there  is  much  pain,  add  laudanum  or  tincture  of 
arnica.  If  discoloration  and  swelling  remain,  after  the  pain 
subsides,  use  stimulating  liniment  to  encourage  a  flow  of  pure 
blood  and  the  washing  away  of  the  injured  blood* 

Burns  and  Scalds. 

If  the  burn  or  scald  is  serious,  send  immediately  for  a  physi- 
cian. In  the  meantime,  cover  with  wet  linen  cloths,  pouring  on 
more  water  without  removing  them,  till  the  pain  is  alleviatec^ 
when  pure  hog's  lard  may  be  applied,  which  is  one  of  the  best 
and  most  easily  procured  dressings.  If  the  scald  or  bum  is 
trifling,  this  is  all  that  is  needed.   Lather  of  soap  from  the  shar- 


LINDCBNT  FOB   RECENT  BUBNi^— -CHILL   PILIB.         4S0 

tng-cup  applied  by  the  brush  often  produces  relief.  White  of  egg 
applied  iu  the  same  wi»j  is  a  simple  and  useful  dressing.  Never 
tamper  with  a  bad  burn.  This  requires  the  skilful  treatment  of 
a  physician.  If  the  shock  is  great,  and  there  is  no  reaction,  ad- 
minister frequently  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  or  a  little 
brandy  and  water  till  the  patient  rallies. 

Liniment  for  Kecent  Burns  and  Scalds. 

Take  equal  parts  of  lime-water,  linseed  oil,  and  laudanum. 
Mix  and  apply  on  a  soft  linen  rag.  Some  add  about  one-quarter 
quantity  commercial  sol.  carbolic  acid. — Dr,  JS.  A.  C. 

Compound  Chalk  Mixture  for  Infants  and  Touno 

Children. 

Prepared  chalk,  powdered  white  sugar,  gum  arabic,  two 
drachms  each.  Tincture  kino,  paregoric,  each  six  drachms. 
Lime-water,  one  ounce ;  peppermint  water,  sufficient  for  four 
ounces. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  shake  well  before  administering.  Dose, 
from  half  to  a  teaspoonful,  according  to  age  and  urgency  of  the 
case. — Drm  JS.  A.  O. 

A  Simple  Kemedy  for  Dysentery. 
Black  or  green  tea  steeped  in  boiling  water  and  sweetened 
with  loaf  sugar. — Mrs.  R,  C,  M,  W, 

For  Diarrhcea. 

Take  equal  parts  of  laudanum,  tincture  capsicum,  tincture 
camphor,  and  aromatic  syrup  rhubarb.  Mix.  Dose,  from  half 
to  a  teaspoonful,  in  water,  when  needed. — J)r,  JE.  A.  C. 

Chill  Pills. 

Suiph.  quinine,  two   drachms;   arsenious    acid,   one  grain; 

itrychnia,  one  grain  ;  Prussian  blue,  twenty  grains  ;  powdortd 

capsicum,  one  drachm.     Mix,  and  make  sixty  pills.     Take  one 

pill  three  times  a  day. — Dr.  E,  A,  (J. 
21* 


i)\)       CUBR  FOR  GOLD  IN  THE  HEAD— <X>UGH  RK)fKT)IV8. 

Curb  for  Cold  in  the  Head. 

Moiiato  of  morphia,  two  grains ;  powdered  gum  arable,  two 
drachms ;  sub.  nit  bismuth,  six  drachms. 
Mix  and  snuff  frequently. — 2V.  ^.  A.  C. 

Prompt  Kbmedy  for  Cold  in  the  Head. 

Sulph.  quinine,  twenty-four  grains;  cayenne  pepi>er,  five 
goains.     Make  twelve  pills,  and  take  one  every  three  hours. — 

Curb  for  Dyspepsia. 

Best  Turkish  rhubarb,  one  ounce ;  gentian  root,  bruised,  one- 
half  ounce ;  columbo,  one-half  ounce ;  orange  peel,  one-half 
ounce ;  fennel  seed,  one-half  ounce ;  best  French  brandy,  one 
quarL     This  will  bear  filling  up  several  times. 

For  WHOopiNG-CoaoH. 

Drop  a  fresh,  unbroken  egg  in  lemon  juice.  When  dissolved, 
sweeten  and  give  a  spoonful  occasionally  when  the  cough  comes 
on. — Mrs.  E.  L 

An  Excellent  Remedy  for  Coughs. 

Boil  three  fresh  lemons  till  quite  soft.  Then  slice  them  on 
a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Stew  them  together  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  or  till  they  form  a  lich  syrup.  When  cool,  add  one 
tablespoonful  oil  of  sweet  almonds. 

Take  one  spoonful  or  moi-e  when  the  cough  is  troublesome. — 
AT.  A.  X. 

Remedy  for  Coughs. 

Boil  one  ounce  licorice  root  in  one-half  pint  of  water,  till  it 
is  reduced  one-half.  Then  add  one  ounce  gum  arabic  and  one 
ounce  loaf  sugar.     Take  a  teaspoonful  every  few  houi*s. — N. 

A,L. 

Remedy  for  Coufflta, 

Boil  three  lemons  for  fifteen  minutes.  Slice  them  thin  while 
hot  over  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar.     Put  on  the  fire  in  a  poroe- 


BKMEDT  POB  ASTHMA,  80BB-THB0AT,  OR  A  COUOIT.      491 

lain-lined  saucepan  and  stew  till  the  symp  is  quite  thick. 
After  taking  it  from  the  fire,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  oil  of 
sweet  almonds.  Stir  till  thoroughly  mixed  and  cool.  If  more 
than  a  small  quantity  is  desired,  double  the  above  proportions. 
— 3frs,  «7!  D.  i. 

Remedy  for  Asthma,  Sore-Throat,  or  a  Oouoh. 

Cut  up  two  or  three  bulbs  of  Indian  turnip,  put  the  pieces  in 
a  quart  bottle,  which  fill  up  with  good  whiskey.  Dose,  a  table- 
spoonful,  three  or  four  times  a  day.  It  is  especially  desirable 
to  take  it  just  after  rising  and  just  before  going  to  bed.  Won- 
derful cures  of  asthma  have  been  effected  by  this  remedy,  and 
many  persons  living  near  the  writer  have  tested  its  efficacy. 
The  bottle  will  bear  refilling  with  whiskey  several  times. 
Qreat  care  must  be  taken  in  procuring  the  genuine  Indian  tur- 
nip for  this  preparation,  as  there  is  a  poisonous  plant  much 
resembling  it. — Mrs,  M,  X. 

Kemedy  for  Poison  Oak. 

Make  a  strong  decoction  of  the  leaves  or  bark  of  the  common 
willow.  Bathe  the  parts  affected  frequently  wijbh  this  decoc- 
tion, and  it  will  be  found  a  very  efficacious  remedy. —  Qfm,  M, 

JRmnedy  for  Poison  Oak. 

Forty  grains  caustic  potash  to  five  ounces  of  water,  ^pply 
to  the  eruption  with  a  small  mop,  made  by  tying  a  soft  linen 
rag  to  a  stick.     Often  a  speedy  cure. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cure  for  Jaundice. 

Fill  a  quart  bottle  a  third  full  of  chipped  inner  cherr}  bnrk. 
Add  a  large  teaspoonful  soda,  and  fill  the  bottle  with  whiskey 
or  brandy.  Take  as  large  a  dose  three  times  a  day  as  tlie  system 
will  tolerate.  If  it  affects  the  head  unpleasantly,  lessen  the 
quantity  of  bark.     It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  few  hours. — Dr.  B, 


492    CUBB  FOB  BONIB  FBLON — GOOD  TRBATICENT  FOB  GROUP. 

Cure  for  Bone  Felon. 

One  ounce  assafietida  iu  one  pint  vinegar,  as  bot  as  the  hand 
oan  bear.  Keep  it  bot  by  placing  the  vessel  over  the  top  of  a 
teakettle.  Use  it  fi*equently  through  the  day,  an  hour  at  a 
time.     A  painful  but  effective  remedy. — Mrs.  JT.  D.  /^. 

For  Treating  Corns. 

Apply  night  and  morning  with  a  brush  one  or  two  drops  of 
protoxide  of  iron  for  two  weeks. — Mrs,  W, 

Curb  for  Corns  between  the  Toes. 

Wet  them  several  times  a  day  with  hartshorn,  and  in  a  short 
time  they  will  disappear. — Mrs,  W.  J3, 

Carrot  Salve  for  Blisters. 

Scrape  two  carrots  and  stew  in  two  tablespoonfuls  hog's  lanL 
Add  two  plantain  leaves.  When  the  carrots  are  well  done, 
strain. — Mrs,  JE,  I. 

Liniment  for  Rheumatism. 

Half  an  ounce  gum  camphor,  half  an  ounce  saltpetre,  half  an 
ounce  spirits  ammonia,  half  a  pint  alcohol.  Old-fashioned  lini- 
ment, good  for  man  or  beast. — Mrs,  T. 

A  Good  Liniment. 

One  egg  beaten  light,  half  a  pint  spirits  turpentine,  half  a 
pint  good  apple  vinegar.  Shake  well  before  using.  Good  for 
sprains,  outs,  or  bruises. — Mrs,  H, 

A  Good  Treatment  for  Croup. 

When  the  child  is  taken  with  a  hoarse,  tight  cough,  give  it 
immediately  from  ten  drops  to  half  a  teaspoon  of  hive  or  croup 
syrup,  or  if  you  have  not  these,  use  ipecac  syrup,  though  this 
is  less  rapid  in  its  effects.  Put  a  m\istard  piaster  on  the  wind- 
pipe, and  let  it  redden  the  skin,  but  not  blister.  Put  the  feet  in 
mustard-water  as  hot  as  they  can  bear  it.     Then  wipe  them  drf 


TO  TAKE  QUININE  WTTHOUT  TA8T1N3  IT.  498 

and  keep  them  covered  warm.  A  child  from  three  to  six  years 
old  will  require  from  ten  drops  to  half  a  teaspoon  of  the  syrup 
every  half-hour  till  relieved.  From  six  to  twelve,  give  from  a 
half  teaspoon  to  a  fiiU  teaspoon,  according  to  the  age  of  the 
patient.  Croup  requires  very  prompt  treatment.  If  home 
treatment  does  not  relieve,  send  immediately  for  a  physician. — 
Mrs,  P.  W. 

To  Take  Quinine  without  Tasting  it. 

Put  a  little  of  the  mucilage  from  8lipi>ery  elm  in  a  teaspoon. 
Dro))  the  quinine  on  it,  and  put  some  mucilage  on  top.  This 
will  make  the  quinine  slip  down  the  throat  without  leaving 
any  taste. — Mrs.  J'.  A,  S. 

DUESSING    FOR  BLISTERS. 

The  first  dressing  should  be  of  collard  leaves,  prepared  thus . 
With  a  sharp  knife  carefully  pare  smooth  all  the  stalk  and  vein- 
ing.  Then  scald  and  squeeze  each  one  to  a  pleasant  moisture, 
keeping  them  blood-warm  until  applied.  Second  dressing — 
pure  lard  or  mutton  suet  spread  evenly  and  thinly  on  a  soft 
linen  rag. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

An  £x(;£llekt  and  Simple  Salve  for  Boils. 

Melt  together,  in  equal  parts,  the  white  rosin  that  exudes  from 
the  common  pine  tree  and  mutton  suet.  This  makes  a  good 
plaster  for  the  boil,  both  before  and  after  it  bi*eaks. — Mrs.  JS,  T. 

For  Boils. 

Slippery  elm  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  and  put  in  a  soft 
muslin  bag,  and  applied  to  the  boil  till  the  inflammation  sub- 
sides, is  an  admirable  remedy.  Then  apply  carbolic  salve  R2)reud 
on  a  linen  rag,  which  is  a  good  dressing  for  the  boil,  both  before 
and  after  it  breaks. — Mrs.  S,  T. 

To  Extinguish  the  Flames  when  the  Clothing  has  taken 

Fire. 

First,  throw  the  pettion  on  the  pi'^unr^  to  prevent  the  upward 


494  FOB  WEAK   BACK — ^POISONS   AND  ANTID0TB8. 

flames  from  being  inhaled.  Then  quickly  roll  the  person  in  a 
carpet  hearth-rug  or  blanket;  if  neither  is  at  hand,  use  anj 
woollen  garment,  such  as  a  coat,  overcoat,  or  cloak.  Keep  the 
blaze  as  much  as  possible  from  the  face,  wrapping  the  woolltn 
garment  first  around  the  neck  and  shoulders.  Jumping  into 
bed  and  covering  up  with  the  bedclothes  is  also  a  good  plan. 

For  Weak  Back. 

Two  tables[M>onfuls  finely  powdered  rosin,  four  tablespoonfuk 
white  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  quart  best  whiskey.  Dose, 
a  tablespoonful  three  times  a  day,  either  before  or  after 
meals.  Excellent  also  for  colds  or  weak  lungs ;  will  stop  an  ir- 
ritating cough.     Taken  half  a  teaspoouful  at  a  time. — Mr$,  G. 

Poisons  and  Antidotes. 

Acids — Sulphuric^  NitriCy  Muriatic^  PliospJioricy  Oxalic, 
Citric,  Tartaric,  Acetic, — Give  fi-eely  of  magnesia  or  soap- 
water  (half  an  ounce  white  soap  to  two  quarts  tepid  M'ater). 
Also  very  weak  solutions  of  carbonate  of  soda  or  potassa  may 
be  used.  Give  demulcent  drinks  and  milk-baths,  cataplasms, 
antiphlogistics.     Avoid  lime-water. 

Alkalies — Caustic,  Potassa,  Soda^  Lime,  Strontia^  Baryta, 
and  their  Carbonates, — Give  diluted  vinegar  in  abundance,  four 
ounces  vinegar  to  one  (piart  water.  Citric  or  tartaric  lemon- 
ade, whites  of  eggs  with  tepid  water,  milk,  sweet-oil.  Baths, 
lotions,  fomentations. 

Arsenic, — Prompt  emetic.  Give  freely  of  hydrated  peroxide 
of  iron;  dose,  half  an  ounce,  frequently  repeated.  If  this  is 
not  at  hand,  give  masjnesia  in  large  quantities  of  tepid  water. 
Demulcent  drinks,  baths,  and  counter-irritants  over  the  stomach 
to  relieve  spasms. 

Carbolic  Acid, — Saccharated  lime  in  water;  also  demulcent 

drinks. 

Chloral, — Keep  the  patient  warm  in  bed,  with  hot  blankets 
6UkI  hot  water  bottles,  the  bottles  also  to  be  applied  over  the 


POISONR   AND   ANTIDOTES.  49^ 

heart.  A  warm  bath  luay  bo  of  advantage.  If  respii*ation 
threateus  to  fail,  raaiutain  it  artificially,  and  api>ly  galvanic 
b»  ttery  (induced  current),  one  pole  over  pit  of  stomach  and  tiie 
other  over  lower  cervical  vertebrie. 

Chlorofonn. — Draw  out  th<3  tongue,  if  retracted.  Give  plenty 
of  air.  Raise  the  body  and  lower  the  head,  till  the  body  is 
almost  inverted.  Maintain  ai-tificial  respiration.  Use  the  gal- 
vanic battery  as  above  directed. 

Cc^pevy  Salts  of — Cause  vomiting,  and  then  give  freely  of 
whites  of  ^^^  and  water,  demulcent  drinks,  soothing  clysters, 
lotions,  fomentations.     Avoid  vinegar. 

Corrosive  Sublimate. — First,  cause  vomiting,  then  give 
whites  of  eggs  in  water,  four  whites  to  one  quart  water.  Milk, 
demulcent  drinks,  and  gargles. 

Gases. — The  antidote  for  chlorine  is  to  inliale  ammonia. 
Asphyxia  by  other  gases,  treated  by  cold  applications  to  the 
head,  plenty  of  air,  artificial  respiration. 

Glass,  in  powder. — Farina  or  light  foo<l  in  abundance.  Then 
an  emetic,  then  milk  and  demulcent  drinks. 

Iodine. — Starch-water  containing  albumen  in  large  quantities, 
or  starch-water  alone. 

Leady  Salts  of. — White  of  eggs,  epsom  salts,  or  sulphuric 
acid  lemonade.  (One  drachm  diluted  acid  to  a  quart  sweetened 
water. ) 

Nitrate  of  Silver  (lunar  caustic). — Give  salt  water  freely. 

Opium  and  Salts  of  Morj^hine. — Cause  free  vomiting  by 
sulphate  of  zinc,  sulphate  of  copper,  and  tartar  emetic,  and  use 
the  stomach-pump.  Then  administer  one-sixteenth  grain  atro- 
pine, hypodermically,  and  repeat  with  caution  till  the  pupils 
dilate.  Also  give  strong  coffee  or  tea.  Keep  the  patient 
awake.  If  depression  and  drowsiness  are  extreme,  bleeding 
may  do  the  patient  good. 

FlwspJwrus. — Emetic,  then  water  with  whites  of  eggs,  mag- 
nesia in  suspension,  milk.     Avoid  oils. 

Jurassic  Acid. — Affusions  of  wa*:er  over  the  cervical  vert« 


496  HOUBE-CLBANINO. 

)>r]K  Cause  the  gas  from  chloiine  water  to  be  inhaled.  Give 
from  twenty  to  forty  drops  of  Labbaraque's  solution  lai^ij 
diluted,  also  coffee. 

JSti'i/cJiniyie. — Cause  vomiting.  Give  ether  or  chloroform  by 
inhalation,  and  chloral  internally.     Insufflate  the  lungs. 

Ihriar  l£tnetic, — If  there  is  vomiting,  favor  it  by  giving 
whites  of  eggs  with  water  in  large  quantities,  then  give  infu- 
sion of  gall  or  oak  bark.  If  vomiting  is  not  free,  use  the 
stomach-pump. 

Venoinoibs  liites^  ScijK'uts. — Apply  a  moderately  tight  liga- 
ture abuve  the  bite.  Wash  the  wound  freely  with  warm  water 
to  encourage  bleeding,  then  cauterize  thoroughly.  Afterwards 
ap}>ly  lint  dipped  in  equal  parts  of  olive-oil  and  spirits  harts- 
horn. Internally  give  freely  of  alcoholic  stimulants,  w^ith  liquid 
anmiouia,  largely  diluted. 

Rabid  Dogs, — Apply  ligature  as  above  described,  wash  the 
wound  thoroughly  with  waim  water,  and  cauterize  immediately 
with  nitric  acid  or  lunar  caustic,  leaving  no  part  of  the  wound 
untouched. 


HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Do  not  clean  but  one  room  at  a  time,  as  it  is  a  bad  plan  to 
have  tho  whole  house  in  confusion  at  once.  It  is  best  to  com- 
mence with  the  attic. 

Before  begiiming  on  your  spring  cleaning,  remove  the  cur- 
tains, all  the  movable  furniture,  and  the  carpets.  With  a 
broom  and  dust-pan  leniove  all  dust  from  the  floor.  Then 
with  a  wall-brush  thoroxighly  sweep  and  dust  the  ceiling  and 
side-walls,  window  and  door  frames,  pictures  and  chandeliers. 
Then  go  over  the  floor  again,  removing  the  dust  that  has  fallen 
from  the  ceiling  and  walls.  Then  proceed  to  wash  all  the  paint 
in  the  room.  If  it  be  white  paint,  use  whiting  or  such  other 
preparations  as  are  reconmionded  for  the  purpose  in  the  subse- 


HOUSB-OLBANINO.  497 

qnent  pages.     If  it  be  varnished,  or  in  imitation  of  oak  or  wal 
nut,  wipe  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  milk-warm  water.     If  the 
wood  work  in  the  room  be  of  unvarnished  walnut  or  oak,  wipe 
it  off  first,  and  then  oil  it,  rubbing  in  the  oil  well. 

Then  with  a  soft  flannel  rag  and  a  cake  of  sapolio  clean  every 
piece  of  marble  in  the  room.  Next  wipe  the  miri*ors  cai'efuUj 
with  a  flannel  rag,  wiiing  out  of  warm  water  and  dipped  in  a 
little  whiting,  or  you  may  rub  a  little  silver  soap  on  the  rag. 
The  gilding  must  be  merely  dusted,  as  the  least  dampness  or  a 
drop  of  water  will  injure  it. 

The  windows  (sash  and  all)  must  then  be  washed  in  soap 
ai^d  water,  with  a  common  brush  such  as  is  used  for  washing 
paint.  A  little  soda  dissolved  in  the  water  will  improve  the 
appearance  of  the  windows.  It  is  unnecessary  to  use  such  a 
quantity  of  soap  and  water  as  to  splash  everything  around. 
After  being  washed,  the  windows  should  be  polished  with  news- 
papers. Except  in  a  general  house-cleaning,  windows  may  be 
cleaned  by  the  dii*ections  given  above  for  mirrora. 

The  metal  about  the  door-knobs,  tongs,  etc.,  may  be  cleaned 
by  electro- silicon,  and  the  gi*ates  may  be  varnished  with  the 
black  vaniish  kept  for  the  purpose  by  dealers  in  grates,  stoves, 
etc.  Every  chair  and  article  of  furniture  should  be  carefully 
cleaned  before  being  brought  back  into  the  room,  and  linen 
covers  should  be  put  on  the  chairs.  If  jow  are  going  to  put 
down  matting,  do  so  before  bringing  back  the  first  article  of 
furniture.  Some  housekeepers,  however,  allow  their  matting 
to  remain  during  the  winter  under  their  carpets.  Spots  on 
matting  may  be  removed  by  being  scoured  with  a  cloth,  dipped 
first  in  hot  water  and  then  in  salt.  This,  however,  will  cause 
wet  spots  to  appear  on  it  in  damp  weather.  After  the  spots 
are  removed,  scrub  the  matting  with  dry  corn-meal  and  a  coarse 
cloth.     Sweep  it  over  several  times,  till  all  the  meal  is  removed. 

For  persons  who  do  not  use  matting  in  summer,  a  i*ecipe  is 

given  later  for  beautifully  coloring  the  floor  with  boiled  linseed 

oil  and  burnt  sienna.     Where  different  woods  are  used  alter 

42 


498  WHITEWASH  FOR  OUTDOOB  USB. 

natelj  in  the  floor,  this  oil  answers  better  than  revamishiiig  tin 
floor  every  spring. 

As  soon  as  the  carpets  are  taken  up,  have  them  nicely 
shaken,  swept,  and  brushed  on  both  sides.  Every  spot  should 
l>e  carefully  washed  and  wiped  dry.  The  carpets  should  then 
be  rolled  up  smoothly,  with  tobaooo  sprinkled  between  the 
folds,  sewed  up  in  coai-se  linen  cloths,  and  put  away  till  autumn. 
A  cedar  closet  is  an  excellent  place  to  keep  carpets  as  well  aa 
other  woollens.  If  you  have  no  cedar  closet,  however,  a  cedar 
chest  will  serve  to  protect  your  woollen  clothes  against  moths, 
and  it  is  better  to  preserve  them  in  this  way  than  to  sprinkle 
them  with  tobacco,  which  imparts  an  unpleasant  scent  to  them. 

Whitewash  for  Outdoor  Use. 

Take  good  quick-lime  in  lumps.  Slack  it  with  hot  water,  and 
while  slacking  add  to  what  will  make  a  pailful  one  pound 
tallow  or  other  grease,  free  from  dirt.  It  may  be  rancid,  smoked^ 
or  otherwise  unfit  for  kitchen  use. 

When  the  violent  slacking  is  over,  stir  thoroughly.  All  the 
water  should  be  added  before  the  slacking  ceases,  and  the  mix- 
ing together  should  be  thorough.  Do  not  dilute  with  cold 
water.  If  well  made,  it  will  be  very  smooth  and  but  little 
affected  by  rain. — Mrs.  E. 

InDOOR  Whitewashing. 
We  have  recently  seen  recommended  in  a  journal  a  fine 
and  brilliant  whitewash  preparation  of  chalk,  called  '^  Paris 
White,"  and  said  to  be  admirable  for  whitewashing  w^Us.  It  sells 
in  paint  stores  at  three  cents  per  pound,  retail.  For  every  sixteen 
pounds  Paris  White,  get  half  a  i)ound  white  transparent  glue. 
Cover  the  glue  with  cold  water  at  night,  and  in  the  morning 
heat  it,  without  scorching,  till  dissolved.  Stir  in  the  Paris 
White  with  hot  water  to  give  it  a  milky  consistency.  Then  add 
and  mix  well  the  glue.  Apply  with  a  common  lime  whitewasli 
brush.  A  single  coating  will  do,  except  on  very  dingy  walls. 
Almost  as  brilliant  as  '*  Zinc  White.*'— Jfcfw.  8,  T. 


TO   OIL   FLOORS — ^TO   WASH   CAJiPUTS.  499 

To  Oil  Floobs. 

To  one  (ballon  boiled  linseed  oil  add  half  a  pound  bumi 
sienna.  Tho  druggist  who  sells  these  articles  will  mix  them. 
If  economy  is  necessary,  instead  of  employing  a  painter  to  put 
it  on,  dip  a  large  woollen  rag  into  the  mixture,  and  with  this 
wipe  over  the  floor. — Mr%,  S,  T. 

To  Dye  Floors  a  Prbttt  Color. 

Make  a  strong  decoction  of  the  inside  bark  of  red  oak.  Set 
it  a  dark  color  with  copperas. 

Have  the  floors  well  swept  and  cleaned  of  spots.  Then  with 
a  cloth  rub  the  dye  in  well,  taking  care  to  wipe  up  and  down 
the  floor,  so  as  to  prevent  streaking. 

Let  it  dry,  then  wipe  over  with  weak  lye,  and  as  soon  as 
this  dries  ofl^  rub  with  a  waxed  brush. — Mrs,  Dr.  JP,  C. 

To  Clean  Paint. 

Wring  out  a  clean  flanuel,  take  up  as  much  powdered 
i^hiting  Hs  will  adhere  to  it,  then  rub  the  paint.  Wash  oil' 
with  clean  water  and  rub  dry  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  it  will  look 
new.     Not  for  paint  in  imitation  of  oak. — 3fr8.  H, 

To  Wash  Ofl-Cloth. 

Wash  oil-cloths  with  salt  water;  say,  one  pint  salt  dissolved 
in  a  pailful  water.  When  dry  wipe  over  with  a  little  milk  and 
water.- -Jlfr«.  ff,  D, 

To  Wash  OU'ClotJh, 

Sweep  it  well.  Wash  with  cold  water,  using  a  brush.  Then 
wash  with  milk  and  wipe  dry.     Never  use  hot  water, — Mrs.  jR. 

To  Wash  Carpets. 

Shake,  beat,  and  sweep  well.  Tack  firmly  on  the  floor.  Mix 
three  quarts  soft,  cold  water  with  one  quart  beers  gall.  Wash 
with  a  flannel,  rub  off  with  a  clecin  flannel,  immediately  aftei 
putting  it  on  each  strip  of  carpet. — Mrs,  H, 


500  TO  BEMOVjr   INK   FROM  0ARPET8. 

Oarpots  sliould  be  washed  in  spots,  with  a  brush  or  flannel, 
one  tablespoonful  ox-gall  in  one  or  two  quarts  water. — Mrs.  A. 

To  Remove  Ink  from  Carpets. 

Tako  up  the  ink  with  a  spoon.  Pour  cold  water  on  Uie 
stained  spot,  take  up  the  water  with  a  spoon,  and  repeat  this 
process  frequently.  Then  rub  on  a  little  oxalic  acid  and  wash 
off  immediately  with  cold  water.  Then  wet  with  hartshorn. — 
Mrs,  JR. 

To  Clean  Marble  Slabs,  et<;. 

Sal  soda,  four  ounces;  powdered  pumice-stone,  two  ounces; 
prepared  chalk,  two  ounces.  Mix  well,  add  sufficient  water,  rub 
well  on  the  marble,  and  then  wash  with  soap  and  water. — Dr. 

K  A.  a 

Sapolio,  rubbed  on  a  flannel  ra^  which  has  just  been  dipped 
in  hot  water  and  squeezed,  is  also  good  for  cleaning  marble. — 
Mrs.  A  T. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Wall  Paper. 
Dip  a  flannel  in  spirits  of  wine  and  go  carefully  over  the 
soiled  places  once  or  twice. — Mrs.  R. 

To  Clean  Furniture. 

One-half  i^iut  linseed  oil,  one  half  pint  vinegar,  one-half  pint 
turpentine.  Apply  with  a  flannel  rag,  and  then  rub  with  a  dry 
flannel. — Mrs.  IL  S. 

To  Clean  Varnished  Furniture,  Mahogany  Especially. 

Wash  the  piece  of  furniture  with  warm  water  and  soap,  and 
then  rub  dry ;  afterwards  take  a  flannel  ra^,  and  rub  with  the 
following  mixture :  equal  proportions  of  vinegar,  sweet-oil,  and 
s)>irits  of  turpentine,  in  a  bottle  which  must  be  shaken  befon 
uHiug. — Mrs,  McG. 

An  Excellent  Furniture  Polish. 
Alcohol,    three    ounces;  linseed    oil,  boiled,    two    ounces 


FURNITL'RK    POLWII TO   CLKAN    BRABBB8,  F.TC.  501 

oxalic  acid,  one  di*achm ;  gum  shellac,  two  drachms ;  giim  ben- 
zoin, two  di-achms ;  rosin,  two  drachms.  DiHsolve  the  grims  in 
the  alcohol,  and  then  add  oil  and  oxalic  acid.  Apply  with  a 
woollen  cloth. — Dr,  E,  A,  C 

Ji^urniture  Polish, 

One  pint  of  alcoiiol,  one  pint  of  spirits  of  turpentine,  one  and 
one-half  pint  of  raw  linseed  oil,  one  ounce  balsam  fir,  one  ounce 
ether.  Cut  the  balsam  with  the  alcohol,  which  will  ttike  about 
twelve  houi*s.  [That  is  to  say,  dilute  the  balsam  with  tiie 
alcohol.]  Mix  the  oil  with  the  tui-pentiue  in  a  separate  vessel 
and  add  the  alcohol,  and  last  the  ether.  —  G.  G-  W. 

To  Clean  Silver. 

There  is  nothing  better  for  this  purpose  than  Colgate's  Silver 
Soap,  and  Robinson's  Indexical  Silver  Soap,  made  in  Boston. 
After  the  silver  has  been  cleaned,  according  to  the  directions 
accompanying  each  package  of  the  aforotncntioned  kinds  of 
soap,  wash  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  which  a  tablcspoonful  of 
ammonia  has  been  poured. — Mrs,  S,  T. 

To  Clean  Silver, 

Make  a  paste  of  whiting  and  spirits  of  wine.  Put  it  on 
with  a  soft  cloth,  then  rub  it  off  also  with  a  soft  cloth,  and 
polish  with  chamois  skin. — Mrs.  JR. 

To  Remove  Ego  Stains  from  Silver  Spoons. 

Rub  with  salt,  and  it  will  entirely  remove  the  discoloration 
produced  by  eating  a  boiled  egg  with  a  silver  spoon.  Rubbing 
with  salt  will  also  remove  the  grayish  streaks  that  collect  on 
white  tea-china  by  careless  usage. — Mrs,  M,  C,  O, 

To  Clean  Brasses,  ETt:. 

Electro-silicon,  manufactured  by  J.  Seth  Hopkins  &  Co., 
Baltimore,  is  the  best  article  that  can  be  procured  for  this  |)ur- 
pose.     The  piice  is  twenty-five  cents  per  box,  with  full  dircc- 


502  FOR  THE  KITGUEN. 

tiona  for  use.     It  may  be  procured   of  any  druggist.     If  noi 
convenient  to  get  it^  use  powdered  brick-dust. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

For  the  Kitchen. 

Sapolio,  manufactured  by  Enoch  Morgan  &  Sons,  should  be 
in  every  kitchen.  It  is  invaluable  for  cleaning  tins,  iron-ware^ 
knobs,  and  is  so  neat  a  preparation  that  it  does  not  blacken  the 
hauls. 

The  Dover  Egg-Beatee 

Is  indispensable  to  housekeepers.  It  froths  eggs  in  less  than 
a  fourth  of  the  time  a  spoon  or  an  ordinary  egg-beater  requires 
to  froth  them. — Mrs.  iS.  T. 

To  Behove  Bust  from  Knives  or  any  Steei.. 

B\ib  very  hard  with  a  piece  of  wash  leather,  dipped  in 
powdered  charcoal,  moistened  with  spirits  of  wine.  Bub  off 
quickly,  wash  in  hot  water,  and  i-enew  as  may  be  necessary. — 
Mrs,  K. 

To  Glean  Knives,  Tins,  etc. 

Crystal  Kitchen  Soap,  manufactured  by  Eastman  k,  Brooke, 
Philadelphia,  is  excellent  for  this  purpose,  being  so  neat  a 
compound  that  the  knives  and  coffee -{)ot,  as  well  as  the  tins 
used  in  the  preparation  of  breakfast,  may  be  quickly  cleaned  at 
the  table  while  the  tea-china  is  being  washed. 

When  not  convenient  to  obtain  the  Crystal  Kitchen  Soap, 
knives  may  be  cleaned  with  ashes  either  of  coal  or  wood. — Mr%, 
S.  T, 

To  Whiten  the  Ivory  on  the  Handles  of  Knives. 

The  ivory  handles  of  knives  sometimes  become  yellow  from 
being  allowed  to  remain  in  dish-water.  Bub  them  with  sand- 
papev  till  white.  If  the  blades  have  become  rusty  from  careless 
usage,  rub  them  also  with  sandpaper  and  they  will  look  as  nice 
as  new. — Mrs,  S,  T, 


MIXrURK  FOR  SHADINO  GLASS — RBMEDT  FOR  RED  AUTK,   508 

Mixture  for  Shadino  Glass. 

Spanish  whiting,  one  pound;  white  glue,  one-quai'ter  pound; 
litharge,  one  oance  ;  alum,  one  ounce.  Boil  the  glue  and  alum 
in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water.  Let  it  cool,  then  add  the 
whiting  and  litharge.  Stir  well  and  iise  at  once.  It  may  be 
washed  or  scraped  off,  if  desired. — Xh.  M  A.  C 

Cement  for  Hubber  and  Glass. 

Pulverized  gum  shellac  in  ten  times  its  weight  of  strong 
spirits  hartshorn. — Dr.  E,  A,  C. 

To  Destroy  Bedbugs. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  corrosive  sublimate  in  one  pint  strong 
spirits.  Put  it  on  the  bedsteads  with  a  feather,  and  it  will  de- 
stroy the  bugs  and  their  eggs  also. — Mrs,  Dr,  P.  G. 

Beddug  Poison. 

Alcohol,  two  and  a  Iialf  pints ;  camphor,  one  ounce ;  spirits  tur- 
pentine, one  ounce ;  corrosive  sublimate,  half  an  ounce.  Mix  and 
dissolve.  If  the  scent  is  not  objectionable,  two  ounces  com- 
mercial  carbolic  acid  will  greatly  improve  the  above. — Dt»  E 

A,  a. 

To  Destroy  Bugs,  Ants,  etc. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  alum  in  three  quarts  boiling  water. 
Apply  boiling  hot  with  a  brush.  Add  alum  to  whitewash  for 
store-ix)oms,  pantries,  and  closets.  It  is  well  to  pound  alum  fine 
and  sprinkle  it  about  beds  infested  with  bugs. — Mr8,  S.  T, 

Remedy  for  Bed  Ants. 

Kerosene  oil  is  a  sure  remedy  for  red  ants.  Place  small 
blocks  under  a  sugar  barrel,  so  as  not  to  let  the  oil  touch  thi 
barrel. — Mrs,  J*,  W. 

Cayenne  pepper  will  keep  the  store-room  and  pantry  firoe  froro 
ants  and  cockroaches. — Mrs.  8.  2). 


504    bemkdy  fok  mosquitoks  ou  blooi>suckfn(i  inbbctb. 

Krmedy  fob  Mosquitoes  or  other  Blood-suctkino  Insect*. 

Uncork  a  bottle  of  oil  of  penny  royal,  and  it  wDl  drive  them 
n«ray,  nor  will  they  return  so  long  as  the  scent  of  it  is  in  the 
room. — Mr$,  S.  D. 

For  the  stings  of  insects,  wasps,  hornets,  bees,  etc.  Apply  to 
the  place  soda,  hartshorn,  or  arnica. 

Rats. 

Miir  8  little  powdered  potash  with  meal  and  throw  it  into  the 
rat-hoies  and  it  will  not  fail  to  drive  the  rats  away.  If  a  mouse 
enters  into  any  part  of  your  dwelling,  saturate  a  rag  with 
cayenne  in  solution  and  stuff  it  into  his  hole. — Mrs.  S,  D. 

CONCENTUATED   LyE   SoaP. 

All  fat  and  grease  from  the  kitchen  should  be  carefully  saved, 
and  should  be  made  into  soap  before  accumulating  and  becoming 
offensive. 

Boil  for  six  hours  ten  gallons  of  lye  made  of  green  wood 
ashes.  Then  add  eight  or  ten  pounds  of  grease,  and  continue  to 
boil  it.  If  thick  or  ropy,  add  more  lye  till  the  grease  is 
absorbed.  This  Lb  ascertained  by  dropping  a  spoonful  in  a  glass 
of  water,  and  if  grease  remains  it  will  show  on  the  water. 

If  hard  soap  is  desired,  put  one  quart  of  salt  in  half-gallon  of 
hot  water.  Stir  till  dissolved  and  pour  into  the  boiling  soap. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  continually.  Remove  fix>m  the 
fire,  and  when  cold  cut  in  cakes  and  dry.  A  box  of  ooDcen- 
ti*ated  lye  may  be  used  instead  of  salt,  as  it  will  obviate  the 
necessity  of  using  more  dripped  lye  to  consume  the  grease. — 
Mrs,  r.  W. 

A  Washing  Mixture. 

Mix  and  boil  twenty  minutes  one  gallon  soft  soap ;  half  a 
gallon  of  weak  boiled  lye  ;  four  ounces  sal  soda  ;  half  a  gill  of 
spirits  turpentine.  Soak  the  clotlios  overnight  in  milk-waiin 
water.     1  n  the  morning,  rinse  and  wring  them.     To  every  gal- 


FOB  OLUANING  OLOTFIISS — ^TO  WASH  BLACK  OASHMBBE.     505 

Ion  cold  water  add  one  pint  of  the  above  mixture.  Stir  it  well 
in  the  water.  Open  the  clothes  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes ;  rinse  out  of  those  suds.  If  the  articles  are  not  thoroughly 
cleansed,  rub  a  little  of  the  mixture  on  the  soiled  places,  and  the 
result  will  be  satisfactory. — Mrs,  Dr.  E, 


■♦^  • 


RECIPES  FOR  RESTORING  OLD  CLOTHES,  SETTING 
COLORS,  REMOVING  STAINS,  ETC. 

For  Cleaning  Clothes. 

Castile  soap,  one  ounce ;  aqua  ammonia  (34),  a  quartei*-pound ; 
sulphur  ether,  one  ounce ;  glycerine,  one  ounce ;  spiiits  wine, 
one  ounce.  Shave  the  soap  into  thin  pieces,  dissolve  it  in  two 
quarts  rain  (or  any  other  soft  water).  Then  add  the  other 
ingredients.  Rub  the  soiled  i^ots  with  a  sponge  or  piece  of 
flannel  and  expose  to  the  air. — Mrs,  JB, 

Soap  to  Remove  Grease  from  Cloth. 

Detersive  soap,  three  pounds ;  alcohol,  two  pints ;  oxalic 
acid,  half  an  ounce ;  essential  oil  to  flavor.  First  bring  the 
alcohol  to  a  boil,  then  gi*adually  add  the  soap  (pared  in  thin 
shavings)  and  stir  constantly.  Then  add  the  acid  and  oil,  pour 
into  moulds  while  hot,  and  let  it  cool.  You  may,  of  course, 
make  it  in  smaller  quantities,  observing  the  same  relative  pro- 
portions.— Dr,  E.  A,  G. 

To  Remove  Spots  from  Uloth, 
Aqua  ammonia,  two  ounces ;  alcohol,  two  ounces ;  spirits  cam- 
phor, one  ounce ;  transparent  soap,  one  ounce ;  rain-water,  one 
quart. — JWr.  E,  (7.,  Jr. 

To  Wash  Black  Cashmere. 

Wash  in  hot  suds,  with  a  little  borax  in  the  water.     Binae 

in  bluing  water,  and  iron  very  damp. 

43 


506  TO  KBSTOSB  THB  PILB  OF  YELYET. 

To  Rkstore  the  Pile  of  Velvet. 

Heat  a  large  flat-iron,  place  it  in  a  pan,  and  lay  on  it  a  wet 
cloth.  The  steam  will  rise  rapidly.  Hold  the  right  sitle  of  the 
velvet  over  it.  If  this  does  not  restore  the  pile,  wet  it 
on  the  wrong  side.  Have  a  smooth  flat-iron  very  hotw  Set 
it  on  the  edge  of  the  table,  upright.  If  it  is  a  narrow  pieoe 
of  velvet,  it  may  be  easily  ironed  by  passing  the  wet  side  against 
the  iron.  If  a  large  piece,  have  some  one  to  hold  the  botton 
of  the  iron  upwards  while  the  wet  side  of  the  velvet  is  passed 
over  it. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

To  Restore  old  Black  Silk. 

Four  one  pint  boiling  water  on  two  tablespoonfuls  gum  arabic. 
When  a  little  cooled,  add  one  teaspoonful  spirits  turpentine  and 
the  same  of  spirits  ammonia.  With  a  large  sponge  wipe  the 
silk  on  both  sides  with  tJiis  mixture.  Then  lay  the  silk  on  an 
ironing-table,  place  over  it  a  thin  pieoe  of  colored  rice  cambric, 
and  iron  it  very  hard  with  a  hot  iron.  This  makes  old  silk 
look  like  new. — Mrs.  S,  T» 

To  Freshen  old  Black  Silk. 

Boil  one  ounce  crushed  soap  bark  in  one  quart  water  till  re- 
duced to  one  pint.  Strain  it;  sponge  the  material  with  the 
liquid,  and  while  wet  iron  on  the  wrong  side.  Grood  for  black 
woollens  also. — Mra.  M.  JB.  li.  W. 

To  Renew  Black  Crape  Veils. 

Wring  two  large  towels  out  of  water.  Then  put  the  veil 
(folded  across  the  middle,  lengthways)  on  the  lower  towel ; 
lipread  the  other  on  top  and  roll  the  veil,  when  between,  in  a 
small  tight  roll.  Let  it  staud  an  hour,  or  till  it  is  damp  throu^ 
Take  it  out  and  air  it  a  little  before  it  dries.  Fold  it  tlien  in 
smooth  squares,  put  it  in  a  large  book,  such  as  an  atlas,  put 
heavy  weights  on  it,  and  let  it ;   stand  an  hour  or  two. — Mrt, 

M.  a  a 


TO  8E1'  0C>I.0B8 — ^FOB  BBMOVING  FRUIT  OB  INK  STAINS.    507 

To  Set  Golobs. 

Wash  in  strong  salt  or  alum  water  and  rinse  in  water  in 
which  Irish  potatoes  have  been  sliced  and  boiled,  to  stiffen. 

A  strong  tea  of  hay  or  fodder  preserves  the  color  of  browo 
linen.  One  spoonful  gall  to  a  gallon  of  water  will  set  the  colors 
of  almost  any  goods.  A  teaspoonful  sugar  of  lead  in  a  gallon 
cold  water  (some  say  a  tablespoonful  in  a  quart  soft  water) 
will  uet  colors.     Let  the  material  soak  in  it  an  hour. 

A  teacup  of  lye  in  a  pail  of  water  will  improve  black  calicoes. 

To  Hestore  Colors  that  have  been  taken  out. 
Kub  the  spots  with  hartshorn  and  place  in  the  sun  till  dry. 

To  Keep  Blue  Calicoes  Bright  and  Fresh. 

The  first  time  they  aie  washed,  put  them  in  water  with  a 
cupful  spirits  of  turpentine  to  each  pail  of  water.  This  will 
set  the  color,  and  they  will  always  look  well. 

Mildew. 

Moisten  the  mildewed  spot  with  clear  water,  then  rub  over  it 
a  thick  coating  of  castile  soap.  Scrape  chalk  with  the  soap, 
mixing  and  rubbing  with  the  end  of  the  finger.  Then  wash  it 
off.  Sometimes  one  coating  suffices,  but  generally  several  are  re- 
quired. 

Labaraque  Solution 

Will  remove  mildew,  ink,  or  almost  any  fruit  stain  from  cloth. 
The  solution  should  be  washed  off  soon  after  applying,  as  it  may 
injure  the  cloth — Ihr.  JS.  A.  C. 

To  Prevent  Fruit  Stains  from  being  Permanent. 

Wet  the  stained  spot  with  whiskey  before  sending  it  tc  wash, 
and  there  will  be  no  sign  of  it  when  the  article  comes  in. 

For  Eemovino  Fruit  or  Ink  Stains, 

Two  drachms  chloride  of  lime,  two  drachms  acetic  acid,  one 
and  a  half  ounce  water.     Mix  well — J)r.  £J,  A,  (7. 


508  IBON  BUST — MISOjSIXANEOUB  REOIPlfiB* 

Iron  Rust. 

Salta  of  lemon  applied  to  the  place  and  exposed  to  the  son 
will  remove  all  iron  rust  in  linen,  etc. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

AmcoNiA. 

No  housekeeper  should  be  without  a  bottle  of  spirits  of  am- 
monia, for,  besides  its  medical  value,  it  is  highly  useful  for 
household  purposes.  It  is  nearly  as  useful  as  soap,  and  its 
cheapness  brings  it  in  the  reach  of  all.  Put  a  teaspoonful 
immonia  in  a  quart  of  warm  soapsuds,  dip  in  a  flannel  cloth, 
wipe  off  the  dust  and  fly-specks,  and  see  how  much  scmbbing  it 
will  save  you. 

For  washing  windows  and  mirrors,  it  is  very  desirable.  A 
few  drops  on  a  piece  of  paper  will  take  off  every  spot  or  finger- 
mark on  the  glass. 

It  cleanses  and  brightens  silver  wonderfully.  Dip  your 
forks,  spoons,  etc.,  in  a  pint  of  suds,  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful 
spirits  ammonia.  Then  rub  with  a  brush  and  polish  with 
chamois  skin. 

It  will  take  grease  spots  from  every  fabric.  Put  on  the 
ammonia  nearly  clear.  Lay  blotting  ])aper  on  the  place,  and 
^ess  a  hot  flat-iron  on  it  a  few  moments.  A  few  drops  of  it 
will  clean  and  whiten  laces,  also  muslins. 

It  is  higlily  useful  and  refreshing  at  tlie  toilet-table.  A  few 
drops  in  the  bath  will  remove  all  offensive  i)erspiration  and 
glossiness  (if  the  skin  is  oily).  Nothing  is  better  for  cleansing 
the  hair  from  dust  and  dandruff.  A  teaspoonful  in  a  pint  of 
water  will  cleanse  the  dirtiest  brushes.  Shake  the  brushes 
through  the  water,  and  when  they  look  white,  rinse  them  in 
water  and  put  them  in  the  sunshine  or  a  warm  place  to  dry. 

For    medicinal    purposes   ammonia    is    almost    unrivalled 


BORAX — ^BLAGK  INK.  509 

InLaliiig  it  will  often  cure  headache  and  catarrhal  cold.  Ten 
drops  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  in  a  wine-glass  of  water  is 
excellent  for  heartburn  or  dyspepsia.  The  ordinary  spirits  of 
ammonia  may  be  used  also  for  the  purpose,  but  it  is  not  so 
palatable. 

Ammonia  is  also  good  for  vegetation  If  you  desire  roses^ 
fuschias,  geraniums,  etc.,  to  become  more  flourishing,  add  ^ve 
or  six  drops  ammonia  to  every  pint  of  lukewarm  water  you  give 
them.  Do  not  repeat  this  more  than  once  in  five  or  six  days, 
lest  you  shotdd  stimulate  them  too  highly. 

Be  sure  to  keep  a  large  bottle  of  ammonia  in  the  bouse,  and 
use  a  glass  stopper  for  it,  as  it  is  very  evanescent  and  is  injuri- 
ous to  corks. 

[The  above  remarks  on  the  usefulness  of  ammonia  were  fur- 
nished and  endorsed  by  Mrs.  A.  D.,  of  Virginia.] 

Borax. 

It  is  veiy  desirable  to  keep  borax  in  the  house.  Its  effect  is 
to  soften  the  hardest  water,  and  it  is  excellent  for  cleansing 
the  hair.  Some  washerwomen  use  borax  for  a  w^ashing  powder, 
instead  of  soda,  in  the  proportion  of  a  handful  of  borax  powder 
to  ten  gallons  boiling  water,  and  they  save  in  soap  nearly  half, 
whilst  the  borax,  being  a  neutral  salt,  does  not  injure  the  tex- 
ture of  the  linen. — Mrs,  S.  T, 

Red  Ink. 

Bicarb,  potash,  half  an  ounce ;  cochineal,  half  an  ounce ;  bi- 
tart.  potash,  half  an  ounce ;  powdered  alum,  half  an  ounce ; 
pure  rain-water,  four  ounces.  Mix,  and  add  ten  drops  creo- 
w)te. — Dr.  E,  A.  C. 

Black  Ink. 

Extract  logwood  (pulv.),  two  ounces;  hot  rainwater,  one 
gallon.  Simmer  over  water-bath  one  hour,  till  logwood  is  dis- 
solved.    Put  into  a  bottle  the  following :  bichromate  potass., 


610  OOXMON   BOTTLE  WAX BAKINQ   FOWDl^JCS. 

one  hundred  grains;  prus.  of  potass.,  forty  grains;  warm  rain- 
water, four  ounces.  Shake  till  dissolved,  put  into  the  logwood 
solution,  stir  well  together,  strain  through  flannel,  and,  when 
cold,  add  corrosive  sublimate,  ten  grains;  warm  rain  water, 
one  ounce.  Dissolve  thoroughly,  put  with  the  above,  and  ad/l 
pure  carbolic  acid  crys.,  one  drachm.  This  makes  the  be^t 
black  ink  in  the  vorld,  at  a  cost  of  about  ten  cents  a  gallon. — 

Dt,  E.  a.  C 

Common  Bottle  Wax. 

Bosin,  eighteen  ounces ;  shellac,  one  ounce ;  bcieswax,  two 
ounces.     Melt  together  and  color  to  suit  the  fancy. — Ihr.  JS, 

A,  C. 

Gbafting  Wax. 

Bosin,  two  pounds;  beeswax,  one  pound;  tallow,  one 
pound.  Melt  together,  pour  into  a  tub  of  cold  water,  and 
work  with  the  hands  till  pliable. — Dr,  E.  A,  (7. 

Liquid  Glue. 

Acetic  acid,  one  ounce ;  water,  half  an  ounce ;  glue^  two 
ounces;  gum  tragacanth,  one  ounce.     Mix  and  dissolve. — Dr. 

E,  A.  G. 

Shoe  Blacking  (equal  to  Mason^s). 

Ivory  black,  twelve  ounces ;  molasses,  four  ounces ;  sperm- 
oil,  one  ounce  ;  oil  of  vitriol,  by  weight,  two  drachms;  vinegar, 
one  pint.  Mix  the  black,  molasses,  and  oil,  and  add  the  vine- 
gar gradually,  stirring  all  the  time.  Then  add  the  oil  of  vit- 
riol very  carefully,  stirring  constantly,  till  effervescence  ceases. 

—Dr,  E.  A,  a 

Liquid  Blacking. 

Ivory  black,  in  fine  powder,  one  pound;  molasses,  twelve 
ounces ;  sweet-oil,  two  ounces  ;  beer  and  vinegar,  two  pints  of 
each.     Mix  thoroughly  together. — Dr.  E,  A,  C, 

What  Most  of  the  Baking  Powders  are  Composed  of. 

(  One  of  the  Best.) 
Cream  tartar,  twelve  and  one-quarter  ounces ;   bicarb,  soda 


TO   DRY    IfKRBS — COLD   OBBAM.  511 

(£ng).,  six  and  one-half  ounces ;  tartaric  acid,  one  and  one* 
third  ounces ;  cai*bonate  of  ammonia,  four -fifths  of  an  ounce  ; 
goo<l  wheat  flour,  four  ounces.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  pass 
thit)ugh  a  fine  sieve. — Dr,  E,  A,  (7. 

To  Dry  Herbs. 
Ciatlior  on  a  dry  day,  just  before  they  fiower.     Put  them  in 
au  oven,  and  when  dry  take  them  out,  pick  off  the  leaves,  put 
in  bottles,  cover  tightly,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. — Mm.  It. 

To  Keep  Weevil  out  of  Wheat. 

Put  the  wheat  in  barrels,  smooth  it,  and  sprinkle  a  layer  of 
salt  over  the  top.  Keep  the  barrels  well  covered  by  tying 
cloths  over  them.     A  sure  preventive. — Mrs,  Dr,  P.  (7. 

Fertilizer  for  Strawberries. 

Niti*ate  of  potash,  one  pound ;  glauber  salts,  one  pound ; 
sal  soda,  one  pound ;  nitrate  of  ammonia,  one-quarter  pound. 
Dissolve  the  above  in  forty  gallons  of  water,  one-third  to  be 
applied  when  the  leaves  begin  to  appear,  one-thii*d  ten  days 
later,  and  the  rest  when  the  vines  begin  to  bloom.  This  quan- 
tity is  for  forty  feet  square. — Mrs.  H. 

Red  Lip  Salve. 

Oil  of  sweet  almonds,  two  ounces ;  pure  olive-oil,  six  ounces ; 
speinnaceti,  one  and  one-half  ounce ;  white  wax,  one  ounce. 
Color  with  carmine,  and  perfume  with  oil  of  roses. — Dr,  JS, 

A.  a 

Lotion  for  Chaps. 

Borax,   two   drachms ;    strong  rose-water,   twelve   ounces ; 

glycerine,  three  ounces  ;  mucilage  of  quince  seed,  ten  di*achms. 

Mix.— 2>»-.  K  A.  C. 

Cold  Cream. 

Kuse-water,  half  an  ounce;  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  half  an 
ounce ;  pure  olive-oil,  two  ounces ;  spermaceti,  half  an  ounce ; 


518  GAXPHOB  ICE — FOB  THE  TKETU. 

white  wax,  one  drachm.  Melt  sperm  and  wax  with  the  oil  bj 
means  of  water-bath.  Then  add  the  rose-water,  and  stir  till 
oool.  When  nearly  cool,  add  oil  of  roses  or  any  other  perfume 
desired. — Dr.  E.  A,  C. 

Camphor  Icb. 

White  wax,  two  ounces;  spermaceti,  two  ounces  and  two 
drachms;  camphor,  six  drachms.  Melt,  and  add  olive-oil, 
five  ounces  and  five  drachms ;  glycerine,  three  drachms.  Make 
into  eighteen  cakes. — Dr,  E,  A,  C. 

QAM^B.QiB.  Salve  fob  Chapped  Lips,  Hands,  etc. 

Spermaceti,  two  drachms ;  white  wax,  two  drachms ;  pul- 
verized camphor,  two  drachms ;  washed  lard,  half  an  ounce ; 
pure  olive-oil,  half  an  ounce.  Melt  in  water-bath,  and  stii 
with  it,  while  cooling,  two  drachms  glycerine. 

Note. — This  is  excellent,  will  relieve  almost  instantly,  and 
will  cure  in  a  few  applications. — Dr.  E,  A.  (7. 

Tooth  Powder. 

Prepared  chalk,  two  pounds;  powdered  orris-root,  two 
pounds;  powdered  white  castile  soap,  quarter  of  a  pound; 
powdered  white  sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound ;  powdered  pumice- 
stone,  half  an  ounce ;  powdered  carmine,  half  an  ounce ;  oil  of 
lemon,  half  an  ounce ;  oil  of  lavender,  half  an  ounce.  Powder 
the  carmine  as  fine  as  possible ;  then  add  to  it  the  pumice-stone, 
then  the  sugar,  then  the  soap,  orris,  and  chalk  in  succession. 
Then  add  the  flavorir^  drop  by  drop,  mixing  it  thoroughly  with 
all  the  ingredients.  Sift  through  the  finest  apothecaries'  sieve* 
—Dr.  E.  A.  a 

Fr  •  the  Teeth. 

Van  Buskirk's  Sozodont,  manufactured  by  Hall  &  Ruckel, 
N.  Y.,  is  all  that  it  claims  to  be.  I  have  known  it  tried  tec 
years  consecutii  ely  with  the  happiest  results. — Mr$.  8.  T. 


chascoal  tooth  fowdeb — ^bhampoo  uquor.       613 

Chabcoal  Tooth  Powbeb. 

Powdered  chai'coal^  six  ounces ;  gum  myrrh^  one  ounce ;  pale 
E^eruvian  bark,  one  ounce.     Mix  thoroughly. — Dr,  E.  A.  C, 

Hair-Oil. 

Pur3  olive-oil,  six  ounces ;  pei-fumed  with  oil  of  jessamine. 

— JDr,  E.  A.  C. 

Hair-  Oil, 

Castor-oil,  ten  ounces ;  pure  alcohol,  six  ounces.  Perfume 
with  oil  of  bergamot  or  any  other  pei*fume  preferred. — Dr,  E. 

A.  a 

Hair  Tonic. 

Glycerine,  one  and  a  half  ounces ;  tincture  cantharides  (95 
per  cent),  half  an  ounce ;  sulph.  quinine,  twenty  grains ;  alco- 
hol, four  ounces.     Mix  together ;  perfume  with  oil  of  roses. — 

Dr.  E,  A.  a 

Anotlier  Mair  Tonicy 

Claimed  to  restore  falling  out  hair,  when  baldness  is  not  hered- 
itary. Tincture  of  cantharides  (officinal),  one  ounce ;  glycerine, 
one  and  a  half  ounce ;  rose-water,  three  and  a  half  ounces. — 

ih.  E,  A.  a 

Hair  Dye,  No.  1. 

Pyrogallic  acid,  one  drachm;  distilled  water,  three  ounces. 
Dissolve.— />r.  E,  A.  C. 

No.  2. 

Nitrate  of  silver  (crystals),  one  drachm ;  aqua  ammonia, 
strong,  two  drachms ;  distilled  water,  six  drachms.     Mix. — Ih, 

E.  A.  a 

Hair  Kestorativb. 

Sugar  of  lead  (chemically  pure),  one  drachm ;  milk  of  sulphur, 
two  drachms;  rose-water,  four  ounces;  glycerine,  one  ounce. 
Mix.— l>r.  E,  A,  a 

Shampoo  Liquor. 

Bay  rum,  three  quarts ;  tincture  cantharides  (officinal),  one 
22* 


514  R08K   BANDOLINK — ^TO   REMOVE  BLOOD   6TAINR. 

and  a  half  ounces ;  carb.  ammonia,  half  an  ounce ;  salts  of 
tartiir,  one  ounce.  Mix.  Thoroughly  cleanse  the  hair  with 
clean  water  after  using. — Dr,  E.  A.  C. 

Rose  Bandoline. 

Gum  tragacanth,  six  ounces  ;  rose-water,  one  gallon  ;  otto  of 
roses,  half  an  ounce.  Steep  the  gum  in  the  water  a  day  or  two. 
Agitate  frequently  while  forming  into  a  gelatinous  mass.  After 
standing  forty-eight  hours,  strain  through  a  clean,  coarse  linen 
cloth.  Again  let  it  stand  a  few  days,  and  then  strain  a  second 
time.  When  tlic  consistency  is  uniform,  add  the  otto  of  roses, 
and  color  with  carmine. — Dr.  JS.  A.  C. 

Almond  Bandoline 

Is  made  as  the  above,  except  that  no  coloring  is  used,  and  it  ih 
scented  with  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  oil  of  bitter  almonds 
instead  of  rose. — Dr,  E,  A,  C, 

To  Clean  the  Hair  and  Hair-Brushes  and  Combs. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  boiux  and  half  an  ounce  camphor  in  a 
quart  boiling  water.  For  cleaning  combs  and  brushes  use  two 
tea  spoonfuls  supercarbonate  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  pint  boil- 
ing water,  or  else  use  one  teaspoonful  hartshorn  dissolved  in  a 
little  water. — Mrs,  R, 

To  Remove  Dandruff. 

Wash  the  hair  thoroughly  in  rain-water  with  a  good  deal  of 
borax  dissolved  in  it. — Mrs,  C.  (7. 

To  Remove  Blood  Stains. 

Make  a  tliiu  ptiste  of  starch  and  water.  Spi'ead  over  the 
stain.  When  dry,  brush  the  starch  off  and  the  stain  is  gone. 
IVo  or  three  applications  will  remove  the  worat  stains. — 
Mrs.  D. 


INDEX. 


BREAD. 

PAOB 

Hatter  bread 56 

"         "     2d  recipe 57 

"         *'     8d      **     57 

Brown  bread 40 

Biecnit,  beaten 42 

"           "      2dreoipe 42 

"            "      cream 42 

•♦            •*      French 41 

"           *»      exceUent  light....  43 

•♦           "      Ught 48 

»♦            "      8otl» 42 

"           "      thick 43 

"            **      thin  or  crackers...  43 

Box  bread 40 

Bunne 39 

Cakes,  Virginia  ash Gl 

"       batter 55 

**            "      2d  recipe 55 

**            **      made  of  stale  bread  55 

"            **      cheap  recipe 56 

*^       old  Virginia  batter  cakes..  55 

t»            ti                  u         i»    2d  56 

Cakes,  Boston  cream 53 

"       breakfast 50 

**       buckwheat 51 

••               **         ad  recipe 53 

"               "         3d      "     53 

"               "         4th    "     52 

»•       bnttermilk 54 

"       com 58 

"       cream 53 

"           **     2d 53 

»*           "     3d 58 

"       farina 54 

'*       flannel 51 

"            "•      2d  method 51 

"      8d        "         51 

Indian  griddle 56 

Madison 50 

**       orange 50 

"       rice 54 

**       Bonr  milk 54 

**       velvet 50 

Conif-biead,  plain 61 

"       Tight 59 


PA. 

Craokers,  Huntsyille 4-t 

**         soda 4:{ 

^^  \yatcr  44 

Cracklin-bread.!. '*.'.'. '.!!*.*.!!  .V.  60 

Egg-broad 60 

'*    old-fashioned 50 

"        •*    soft 59 

Family  bread 29 

Graham  bread 40 

Grit  or  hominy  bread 5S 

'*         "  '*     2d  recipe...  58 

Henrietta  bread 45 

Indian  "     (K) 

Lapland        "     45 

**  **    plain  recipe 45 

New  bread 45 

Leaven 27 

Light  bread 31 

Jenny  Lind  bread 40 

Loaf,  cottage 39 

Loaf  bread 29 

'*    old   Virginia 29 

"        "    3d  method 30 

Lunch  bread 46 

Lunn,  quick  Sa] lie 36 

''      SaUie2d 34 

*'     3d dry 

"  "     4th 35 

»*       "    5th a> 

Old  maids 39 

Muffins 36 

*»      2d 37 

*'      8d 3S 

"      bread 38 

**       com 57 

"       cream. 38 

"      white  egg 38 

**       Parker  House 37 

''       salt  sulphur :i6 

"       soda 38 

**      superior 3? 

*'       sweet  spring dt* 

Mush  bread 59 

Pockets 34 

Pone,  St.  Nicholas 58 

PoUtobread 89 


616 


INDEX. 


Puffi,  breUdhst 46 

"      nun*i 44 


...  60 

...  81 

.  r. 

..  ^ 

...  83 

..  88 

"      velvet 82 

RuBki 40 

*'     egg 41 

*•     GermAn 41 

Halt  risen  btead 47 


Rice  bread 

BolU,  hot  or  oold  loaf  bread , 

"      French 

»♦  '•       dd 

*'  "       or  twist 

"      pocket-book 


tt 


4t 


it 


Yeast 


Turnovers 88 

Twist 84 

Wafers 44 

Waffles 47 

2d 48 

8d 48 

oom  meal 57 

mash 49 

rice 49 

"  2d 49 

saperior  rice 49 

soda 48 

another  recipe 48 

25 

alum 27 

**    another  recipe. 26 

•*    Irishpotata 26 

"    that  never  faUs 26 


COPPEB,  TEA  AND 
CHOCOLATK 

Oaf6aa  lait 63 

Coffee,  to  make 62 

"    2d 62 

"    boUed 61 

**    dripped  or  filtered 68 

"  "  **       8d 68 

"    to  toast 61 

Broma 65 

Chocolate 65 

Cocoa 65 

Black  tea 64 

»*  2d 64 

Gicen    " 68 

"  2d » 64 

**        **  a  good  cap  of 64 

Toed      "  64 


MILK  AND  BUTTER 

Batter,  to  seooxe  nice  foi  the  table 
in  winter 67 


Butter,  pntting  ip 07 

Clabber 67 

Cottage  cheese 68 


SOUi». 


Asparagns  soup . . , 

"  ad. 


it 


i% 


tt 


2d. 


Beefs  head,    to  prepare  as  ptock 

for  soap 

Calfa  head  soap. 

"    2d 

"    Gd 

"    4th 

»*    5th 

**    brown 

Clam  soap 

**  3d 

Chicken  soap 

"    2d 

it 


it 

it 
it 

14 

t4 


it 


2d 


Crab 

it 

Oiblet 

Gumbo 

it 

Okra 
OxtaU 

Oyster 

it 

it 
ti 

14 

Pea 

ct 
It 

PoUto 

•i  2d 

Terrapin  soup,  mock. 
Turtle 

44 


it 
it 

ti 

"  3d* 

14 
•  4 
44 

"  2d.' 
"  8d, 


"  economical, 
"  pur^e  of 

44 

**  green , 

**      "      2d.. 

44 


44 
ti 
44 


44 
4f 

Tomato 

44 
if 

Veal 

bone  soap 
Vegetable  soup 


3d... 
8d... 
mock, 


44 

44 
14 
41 


2d 

clear 

roast)  and  chicken 


44 


44 


fine. 


S3 
74 
74 

74 
75 
75 
76 
76 
77 
77 
'<2 
78 
7>5 
79 
78 
74 
79 
80 
80 
79 
78 
GO 
70 
70 

est 

70 
83 

64 
b4 
^^4 
b4 
72 
71 
71 
72 
7-3 
83 
b3 
88 

79 

81 
80 


OYSTERS  AND  OTHER 
SHELLFISH 

Clam  or  oyster  fritters 


INDBX. 


517 


PAGB 

OrabiLtooook n 

•'    denUed. 94 

*«           u        2d          94 

**    hard,  todevii*.!!!.'.*.'.'!'.*.!!!  96 

Crab  Btew 94 

'*    soft 95 

Lobster  carry 95 

Tempin 96 

^'      or  torUe  in  batter 96 

**               "         Bteaks 96 

"               "         Btew 96 

Turtles,  to  cook 96 

"        Btewed. 96 

Oyfelera,  broiled 90 

•*      tooook 86 

•»           »»      89 

"      devilled 88 

"            "        88 

"      fritters 89 

"           »*    89 

**      tofry 89 

"      fried 89 

»*          "    2d 90 

»*      tofry 90 

"         "      2d 90 

**      to  keep  alive  and  fatten.  94 

"      pat68. 9:3 

"      pie 92 

"        **  2d 92 

**      pickled 91 

"           "        2d 91 

••          "        8d 93 

**     raw 93 

"     to  roaat 91 

"     Bausage 98 

**     Bteamed 90 

**     shortcake 93 

•'     BcaUoped 86 

•*           "        2d 87 

«•        8d 87 

"           '♦       4th. 88 

A  la  ortme. 98 

Cat  fish. 99 

'*    "    orhogfish 99 

Codfish  balls 104 

**      **    boiled 104 

"      **   salt^todress 105 

"      "   Nantucket 105 

Chowder. 99 

Chowder,2d 100 

Dram  or  stnxgeon 101 

(German  fish  stew 107 

Halibut 98 

"      2d    98 


FAOU 

Mackerel,  boiled 105 

tobroU 105 

''        salt,  to  cook 106 

Perch,  to  fry 104 

Rock  fish,  baked 101 

Rock,  to  boil 101 

'*      boiled,2d 101 

"      pickled 102 

*'      tostew 101 

Shad,  baked 102 

"     to  barbecue 108 

"      "  broU 102 

"      "  fry 102 

"      potted 103 

"      toroast 102 

Salmon,  to  bake,  to  boil  and  steak  106 

topickle 107 

Sheep's  heaa,  to  bake 100 

"  or  rock,  to  boil 100 

"  to  bake,  2d 100 

"  •*    "      8d 101 

•*  boiled 100 

Sturgeon,  baked 104 

"       cutlet 103 

"      scolloped 108 

Trout,  to  fry 104 

GAME. 

Duck,  wild Ill 

''        ''    to  cook  for  breakfast.  Ill 
Fowl      "     **  roast  in  a  stove. ...  110 

Goose    "    Ul 

"       '»    2d Ill 

Partridges,  to  broLL 112 

"  and  pheasants,  to  cook  112 

»*  toroast 112 

Pigeon,  to  broil 112 

**      pie 113 

**      tostew 113 

Rabbit,  barbecue 109 

"       roast 109 

"       stewed 109 

"  "     2d 109 

Reed  birds,  to  dress US 

Sora,    ortolans    and    other  small 

birdsj  to  cook 113 

Sora,  ortolans    and  other    small 

birds,  to  cook 1 14 

Sora,  ortolans,  robins  and  other  114 

small  birds,  to  cook 

Squirrel,  to  barbecue 108 

Turkey,  wild 110 

"         **    simple  way  of  pre- 
paring  110 

Venison,  haunch 108 

"  **       of 107 


518 


INDEX. 


PAOB 

VaQisoD,  stewtd 106 

"      2d 108 


ii 
It 

it 
It 
t« 
it 


MEATa 

Backlione  or  ohine,  to  oook 

pie 

Bitcou,  to  cure 

**        curinff 

**        fried 

**        and  (greens 

**        shoulder  of 

CluDC,   to  dress 

loast 

Ham,  baked 

"      2d 

or  tongue,  bake 

broiled 

of  pork,  to  cook , 

for  curing 

Virginia  mode  of  curing, 
to  boil 


t4 


t( 


it 


2d 


tt 
It 

tt 


eitfhing 
•ied .... 


10  lbs 


tt 
tt 
it 
tt 

tt 
tt 


wei^ 
friec 
an  improvement  to. . . 

relish 

bpioed 

MtufTed  and  baked . . . . 
to  stuff,  fresh  cured . . 

toast 

"   2d 

Jowl  and  turnip  salad 

Lard,  to  cure, 

Leg  of  p«  irk  stuOed 

Pickled  pork,  equal  to  fresh. 

Pork  royal 

**    steak 

Sausage  meat 

**  '*    excellent  recipe. 

*  *        seasoning  for 

Salt  pork,  bow  to  cook 

Bpnic  ribs 

"        '*  pork 

**  3d 

"  4th 


tt 


**  grisken  and  short  ribs, 

to  cook 

Souse  cheese 

**     to  make  from  hogs*  feet . . . 

Sweethreod  of  hog 

Tongue  or  ham,  potted 

Harbecue  shoat 

Forcquartcr  of  shoat  to  roast. . . . 
Uoad  of  slioat 

"      "      ''      to  stew 

**      "  pigto  hash 


20 
20 
25 
25  i 

:{0| 

29 

29. 

21 

211 

271 

28  I 

27 

21) 

21 

25 

24 

2li 

27 

26 

29 

2<i 

»1 

29 

28 

28 

31 

31 

30 

24 

il 

:io 

22 
19 
22 
Z2 
22 
31 
19 
19 
19 
19 

20 
2:J 
23 
>:{ 
31 
;Si 
:i2 
34 
35 
3o 


Head  and  lowl  of  pig  to  sUnr 131 

Jowl  of  shoat 17^ 

Roast  pig IJ» 

*•      shoat ISi 

BEEF  AND  VEALu 

A-la  mode 140 

"     2d. 140 

**        "     3d 141 

BoUcd  beef  and  tumii»e 141 

Brine  for  beef 154 

Brains,  croquettes. 151 

"       to  dress 130 

"  fry 1.50 

"        "    *^ 1-iO 

**       "stew 150 

Collaps,  beef 14«» 

ColUr  .   142 

CowheeL 1.^3 

"      **    fried 158 

Corned  beef 154 

"    2d 156 

"         "    3d 156 

**         "    and  tongues. 1 55 

"         "    orpork 155 

"     round,  to  cook 158 

*^     beef,  how  to  cook 150 

"         **    tongue,  to  cook. 158 

Cure        "    for  drying. 15» 

"    ham 100 

DaubeFroide 153 

Dry  beef  and  tongue IfiO 

French  dish 153 

Frirzled  beef 144 

Fricasseed  beef 145 

Gravy  brown 153 

"      for  roast  beef 152 

Heel  of  beef  to  fry 153 

Hunter's  beef  or  spiced  round. ...  15(> 
tt  tt     tt      tt  *»       2d.  157 

Heartof    "    147 

Kidneys,  broiled 148 

fried. 14S 

**     2d 148 

"         grUled 148 

"         stewed 147 

''  "       2d 147 

Liver 149 

**     fried. 149 

"     to  fry. 149 

"     to  fry  with  onions 149 

"     dried  for  relish 149 

Ox-heart,  to  roast 147 

Roast  beef i:fc> 

»t      «»      2d. 139 

Rib  roast  ot  beef !!!!.!!!!!!!.".'!!  IW 


IMDKX. 


510 


PAOB 

Round  of  boef,  to  Bpice 157 

Ramp"      "    toBtew 145 

Bteak,broUed 142 

**         *^       8i 143 

"     howtocook.'!!.'.*.*.'!!!!.'.'.'.  143 

••     fried 144 

"     tofry 144 

**    fried  with  onions 14S 

Stew,  Lebanon 14C 

Sausage,  beef 152 

bologna 153 

Smoked  beef 159 

Spioed    ♦•    157 

Tongue  k  la  terrapin 14(S 

"       toast 147 

"       tostew I4ti 

"       to  pickle 155 

Tripe 151 

"      2d 151 

»*      to  fry 152 

**       '*  prepare 151 

Calves' brains 107 

Cake,  ofvesl IM 

Chop<i,  veaL ir»l 

Cutlets,  veal I(i2 

*•  '*    2d 162 

"  *'•  3d 102 

Cold    veal,   dressed   with    white 

sauce 168 

Daub  veal 1  ( »7 

Feet,  oalTs,  dressed  as  terrapins..  165 

Head,  calf  s 167 

"       tobake 107 

Liver,  bewitched KM! 

"       broiled 105 

**       tofry m) 

"         "      2d m\ 

"       simple  way  of  cooking ....   I  Of> 

Loaf,  veal 163 

**        **    dd 164 

Lorn  of  veal,  stewed. 100 

Minced    '*    103 

Boast       "   101 

Steak       "    101 

Swcetbreada 105 

**        2d 105 

"       "       8d 106 

MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

BroUed. 170 

Chops,  mutton  172 

"       8d 172 

"       8d 17:^ 

**       broiled. 178 

Corned      **       171 

Lig  yi  mutton,  boiled •  • .  170 


PAGI 

Leg  of  iiiutton,  boiled,  2d 170 

'*         roast KVJ 

Roast  mutton \m 

Saddle  of  mutton,  to  cook. 171 

li  i4  Ik  IIVI 

"  "         iced...!'.*."!'.'.;  171 

"  "         to  roast 170 

Shoulder       ♦*         corned 172 

Slices,  grilled 1 74 

Stew 173 

"    2d 17*.) 

Tongues,  sheep 174 

Lamb's  head 175 

"  **      to  fricassee 175 

Roast  lamb 174 

Shoulder  of  lamb,  to  grill 1 74 

Decorations    and    garnishes   for 
cold  meat  and  salads 175 

POULTRY. 

Chickens 1>^ 

to  boil ls4 

"  broU Ib7 

^*         *^  dress  with  tomatoes.  liM'* 

"         »*  fricassee 1S7 

fried 180 

**     2d 186 

pie 187 

"    2d 188 

pudding 1S8 

2d 188 

"  **        withpotetoea..   188 

•'       to  roast 1H4 

**       smothered IS5 

**       tostcam 1S4 

*•  stew   l>o 

"     ''    185 

Ducks,  young,  to  prepare IIK) 

"       tostew 1V«0 

Goose,  devilled Ib9 

**       to  roast 180 

Turkey,  boUed ISO 

2d 180 

"       boned 181 

"       devilled 181 

»»       hash  ISl 

Turkey,  meat  jelly  for 1 8:i 

"       roast  178 

»*  »•     2d 178 

»♦  "     8d 179 

*•  **     with  truffles 179 

to  steam 180 


14 
l( 
It 
il 
II 
II 


11 
11 


II 


SALAD& 

I  Celery  salad 196 

I  Chicken  '* \U 


520 


INDEX. 


rAOM 

Chicken  nkd,  2d 195 

**   »♦   3<i 186 

"    '•   4th 196 

"   for  86  people 195 

Fish  Mlsd 192 

Irish  pototo  salad 196 

Leitaoe  salad 196 

"       drened 200 

»»  "      200 

Lrbstersalad... .'....'.'.'.. .'..!!...  192 


Oyster 
PoUto 

4t 


ti 


2d. 


Salmon  salad,  and  lobster , 

Slaw 

**    cold 

"      "   2d 

Terrapinialad 193 

Tomato      "     197 


191 
197 
198 
191 
199 
198 
199 


Turnip 
Turkey 


It 


it 
it 

It 


197 

193 

2d 193 

8d 194 

Veal  and  potato  salad 197 


II 


SAUCEa 


Anchovy  tanoe 
Apple 
Cod's  head  '* 


for. 


Fish 
It 


It 
It 


tt 
It 

Datch 


It 
tt 
It 


202 

204 
201 
200 
201 
202 
200 


2d 

8d 

or  sauce  for  salad. 

for  fish 201 

Horseradish  sauce 202 

Maitred'H6te  sauce 202 

Mint  sauce 204 

203 

203 

204 

204 

203 

208 


Mushroom  sauce, 
It  It 


tt 


It 


#Nastnrtium 
Onion 

Pepper  vinegar, 
Tomato  aance . , 


2Sg  sanoe 
ushroom  sauce 

Oyster  '' 3(S 

Sauce  for  boiled  poultry SU6 

White  sanoe 204 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Cabbage  dressing 906 

Celery  dressing 211 

*•           "       2d 211 

Chioken  salad  dressing :2u6 

Cold  slaw                "       210 

Lettuce     **       208 

**      2d 210 

Sana  Mayonnaise 209 

Salad  dressing 207 

"           "       2d. 207 

"       3d 207 

"            "       4th 208 

**           »*       5th 210 


BRUNSWICK    STEWS,  GUMBO, 
SIDE  DISHES. 


SAUCES    ESPECIALLY    SUITA- 
BLE FOR  FOWLS. 

Asparagus  sauce 205 

Celery  "     205 

Cranberry       "    206 

Dxawn  butter 205 

••         ♦*       2d 206 

•*•  "        3d 206 


Apples,  fried 

"       spiced 

Bacon  fraize 

Beef  cakes 

Beefsteak  and  potatoes 

Breakfast  dish 

"  "    2d 

Broth,  Scotch , 

Caasa  rolls 

Calf  s  head  puddiuff 

Cold  chicken,  deviUed 

"        "         with  vinegar. 

Croquettes 

2d 

"  3d 

"         4th 

Chioken  croquettes , 

Croquettes  balls 

**  poUto 


8S1 


226 
226 
221 
222 
216 
221 


225 


tt 
tt 
It 


sausage 

"       2d. 


meat 

Crumb  pie 

Dried  apples,  peaches,  quinces  and 

;     jpears,  to  stew 

!  Fish  and  potatoes 

;  Forcemeat  balls 

:  Fondee 

.  Qiblet  pie 


217 

217 
218 
218 
217 
818 
218 
219 
219 
217 
924 

281 


219 
280 


! 


UfDEZ. 


521 


PAOS 

Gumbo 213 

"      9d 213 

"      Sd 213 

'*      filet&laOreole 214 

UaggiR 225 

HmE 220 

'*     tMtked 222 

Hominy,  to  boil 228 

**  **        2d 229 

'*       croquettes 228 

"       fried 229 

Hotch  potoh 210 

Liyer  pudding 223 

Loaf,  meat 216 

Maoaroni 227 

2d ^7 

"    3d 227 

''        Italianmetbod 227 

Minoe,  with  bread  crumbs 219 

'"       "    potatoes 220 

Mushrooms,  broiled.. 280 

"  to  stew 230 

"  "  fry  or  broU..  229 

"  and  sweetbread  pat^s  229 

Mutton,  hashed 215 

•*  "       dd 215 

"  »•       8d. 215 

Nioe  pie 223 

Pig*s  head  pudding 223 

Pototo  pie 223 

"  2d 223 

Pot  pouri 220 

Prunes,  stewed. 232 

Ragout  souse 221 

Rice  and  egg  pat6s 281 

Sandwiches 222 

"  2d 222 

Squab  pie 225 

SKledish 216 

Stew,  black 216 

Stew,  Brunswick 211 

Stew  "         2d 212 


It 


41 
tt 


8d. 

4th 


212 
212 


PAQB 

Eggwithtoast 286 

Ham  and  eggs. 236 

**  ^g  pudding 237 

Omelette 284 

2d. 234 

8d 234 

4th 234 

cheese 235 

German 235 

ham 235 

mock.., 235 

80uffl6 235 

Pie,  egg. 237 

Poached 


tt 
It 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
tt 
t< 


•^ 


B. 


296 

Rumble    "*^     280 

Scrambled  eggs 233 

" 233 

Stuffed. 237 


VEGBTABLE& 

Artichokes,  burr 249 

Asparagus,  to  cook 238 

"  "         2d 239 

Beans,  lima,  to  boil 245 

*»         »*        »*       2d  245 

»*  "        "       3d 254 

Beets,  to  boil 239 

Cabbage,  with  bacon,  to  boH  ....  251 
*^  boiled  without  bacon. . .  251 

•*         fried 252 

"         pudding 251 

»*  "       2d 251 

Cauliflower -. 252 

Celery 240 

Com  fritters 242 

2d 243 

for  breakfast 243 

green,  to  boil 241 

pudding 242 

''       2d 242 

put  in  brine 254 

Cucumbers,  to  dress  raw 246 


ti 

it 

41 

(4 
It 
44 


tt 

tt 


Terrapin,  mock 221    Cucumbers,  to  fry 246 


ToDsue  and  prunes 231 

Vealpates 214 

Welsh  rarebit 281 


BG6S 


A-la-creme 
BoUed 


tt     ^f^^ifi; 


237 
233 
383 


Baked  for  dinner 237 

Egg  cups,  breakfast  dish 283 

**   forbreakfast 933 

44 


Cymlins,  with  bacon 240 

to  hy 241 

fritters 241 

"        pudding 241 

**        or  squash  to  stew 840 

Egg-plant,  to  bake 249 

'^      **       to  fry 249 

pudding 249 

to  stew 248 

Okra 246 

Onions,  to  bake 239 

"cook 289 

''        "dressraw 240 


44 
41 


tt 
tt 


522 


INDKX. 


rAOR 

OnioQA,  to  fry 290 

Parsnips,  to  oook 250 

"         "  fry 249 

**         **  stew 24y 

PflM,  cornfield  or  bluok-cye S-VI 

*'     dried,  toboil 25* 

"     ffreen,      "       238 

Pees,  kon-feel 253 

PoUto  chips,  Irish 247 

•*      cakes iM7 

P(  tivtoes  creamed 847 

Irish,toboil 246 

Potato  hath 247 

'*      pudding 247 

"      snow 247 

Potatoes,  itliced,  to  fry 247 

**        sweet,  toboil 348 

''  ''       to  oook  inferior.  248 

'*       to  fry 248 

Radishes 240 

RoiMi  Viga 244 

Salsify,  to  cook 250 

"  fry 250 

**        "  stew 250 

**        *♦     **    250 

Slaw,  warm 251 

"     2d.   252 

**        **    3d  .       ...     2.'"»2 

Snaps,  to  boil '. '. *. *. '.'. '. '. ". ". '. . '..',,,.'.  240 

Spiniich 252 

Succotash 24() 

Tomatoes,  baked 243 

**     2d 243 

fried 244 

"  omelet 214 

''         raw,  to  dress 215 

'*  *'    2d 246 

"         stewed 244 

"  ''     2d 244 

Tomato  toast 245 

Turnips 253 

salad 253 

»*        to  stew 253i 

Tams,  to  dress 248 


PICKLE  AND   CATSUPS. 

Apple  pickle 294 

blackberry  pickle 205 

Cabbage  '*       for  present  use.  262 

"      cut »i2 

*'  "      chopped 263 

Cantaloupe  pickle,  3 287,  288 

Com|)osition   **        291' 

Cherry  "        205 

Cbow-ohow     "       5 282-284 

4i        4.         41       (Lecsbuig) . . . .  285. 


rAoc 

Cucumber  pickle  4 2GG-988 

'*  "     hoilcil 9ns 

**  "     ripe 2«9 

"  "     sweet,  2 3i9 

Damson  "     2 290,291 

French  "     2 292 

Green  "     3 264-266 

German  "       290 

Honolulu  melon  pickle 287 

Hydcnsalad,5 273-S75 

Ingredients  for  one  gallon  green 

pickle 258 

Kentucky  pickle d92 

Lemon  *'       2 294 

Mangoes,  oil,  8 278 

to  green 270 

**        stuffing  for  60 270 

**       peach,  4, 87H,  S79 

**       pepiier 279 

Martinaa  picUe 281,  283 

Mufikmelon  pickle 9SA 

Onion  "      2 298.  2!H 

Peach  "     4 286,  .557 

"      spioed 286 

"  "      sweet 2S6 

Pear,  peach  or  quince  pickle  ....  287 

Plum  pickle 289 

Preparm^  pickles 258 

Ragout  picklo 291 

Spanish     "     293 

Sweet         **     2?f7,290 

Tomato     "    (green)  3 269,  270 

"  "    <8wect)3 273 

"  **    (ripe) 272 

**        sauco  (green)  3 270,  271 

*^        marmalade  or  sauce  for 

meats 273 

Vinegar  for  pickle,  8 256 

"        **     ycUow  pickle 257 

Walnut  pickle^4 280,281 

Watermelon  pickle,  4 289 

"  "        sweet 288 

YeUow  "         7 258-281 

Bay  saucc,2 2119 

Caper  sauce 302 

Celery  vinegar 801 

Cucum)>or  catsup,  4 297 

Horseradish  sauce 301 

Mushroom  catsup,  4 209,  300 

**         sauoe :»0 

Mustard,  to  mix 303 

aromatic 808 

Pepper  cateup dOi 

sauce 801 

"      vinegar 802 

Tomatocatsup,  2 295,  2«e 

Tartan  sauce 303 

"    (Morcan's) 303 


IMOKX. 


ft28 


FAQI 

Walnut  otttonp,  8 208 

**     leaveii,  catsup  from 298 

CAKE. 

Almond  cako,  2 828 

Angel's     **      811 

'"      br«ad 823 

Black  cake 814,815 

Bridea*  cake,  4 800,810 

Capital    "       842 

Ciwron      "      4 887,828 

Cocoanut  cake,  6 822, 824 

Chocolate    '*     5 325,826 

JeUy  cake 827 

Corn-starch         "    818 

Clay  ♦*    828 

Cream  ''   2 840,341 

Currant  "    829 

Cup  "   8 842 

Custaid  "    844 

Cake 848 

"•    withsauce 844 

*'    that  never  fails 844 

Delicate  cake,    2 8l2 

Delioiooa    *'        2 848 

Ij^uit  **        7 816-319 

Fig  "         829 

Gold  *•         311 

Mrs.  Gait's  cnKc 845 

JeUyfor  **    2 834,835 

Jelly  "    2 885 

Jelly  cake  (lemon)  2 335,  33({ 

"         "    (rolled)  2 336 

"        "    fillingfor 387 

Kettle  cake 845 

Lady      **    2 811,  312 

Lee        "    (R  E.)2. 321 

Leighton  cake 306 

Lemon        **   2 820,321 

Mountain  cake 307 

**         ash-cake 808 

Merry  Christmas  cake 312 

Marble  cake 887,839 

"•      or  Bismarck  cake 339 

Norfolk  " 845 

Naples  biscuit 347 

Orange  cake,  8 810,  820 

Parson's    "     846 

PDund       "    7 829,881 

Pineapple"     319 

Risen         "     846 

Rore  or  clouded  cake 8^9 

Bufjjles'  **    346 

Silver  **   310 

Snow  "    308 

"    mountain      "   307 


rioa 

Spice  mountain  cake. 840 

Sponge  ''  2 882 

Sponge  cake  (confederate) 882 

(cream) 338 

(butter)  2 881,882 

(extra) 838 

that  never  faUs 383 


44 
44 
44 
«4 


44 

44 
44 
41 


41 


44 


Tipay  cakes, 


roll,  2. 


Velvet 
White 

(4 


14 

44 
44 


4» 

(4 
44 


44 
44 
44 


834 

847 

847 

8 805 

(superior) 805 

"    mountain  cake,  4 806,807 

"  ''        aah-cake. 808 

''    fruitcake,  4 818,814 

Wbortleberr}' 847 

Icing  for  cakes 840 

Icing,  5 848,  840 

**    boiled,2 848,840 

"    cold 848 

"    hot 848,840 

Ginger  brtjsd 850,851 

Ginger  bread,  cup  cake 351 

lightened 851 

risen 851 

soft 850 

Ginger  loaf 860 

Molasses  cake,  2 851,  858 

"      or  black  cake 012 

^      pound  cake 852 

Small  cakes a^8 

Albany  cakes 858 

Bonnefcadas 861 

Cofl'ec  cakes 857 

Cookies 858 

Cinnamon  cakes,  2 857 

Colleo  '*         aw 

Cream  '*        854 

Crullers 350 

Delicate  tea  cakes,  2 :i60 

Delicious  small  cakes 861 

Dimples. :i62 

Drop  cakes 858 

Ginger  cakes,  2 302,  863 

(drop) 364 

(cheap) 8f3 

"    bunns 863 

"    snaps,  2 863,364 

Gloucester  cakes 859 

Holmcroft 358 

Jumbles,  8 856 

*'        (Jackson) .356 

"        (lemon) 361 

Macaroons    856 

Marguerites,  3 354,  :i55 

Molatisos  cakes 3<>4 

Nothings a58 

^toh  cakes dSS 


4t 
4( 


41 
44 


624 


IKDBX. 


Btrawberry  oftlcM S57 

8ug»r  "     S58 

Shrewibmy  **     &56 

Sweet  onoken 358 

Spioemita. 864 

Teaoaket,3 359,  860 

TarUrio  odcea 860 

Walen,S 803 

PUDDINGB. 

Apple  padding,  6. 876 

Apple  charlotte 377 

Apple  OQstard 878 

Apple  ooatard  padding. 877 

Apple  meringue,  2 877 

Apple  dampiingB 878 

Apple  ruU  (baked) 877 

Almond  podding 381 

Amhent      "       370 

Arrowroot  ''       389 

Batter  "       398 

Balloons 398 

Bread  padding 390 

Boiled  bread  padding,  2 373 

Boiled  padding  of  aoid  frait 871 

**    eweetmeat  pudding. 373 

**    molawes  "      373 

"    pudding,  2 370,873 

**    dumplinga,  paste  for 373 

Oakepaddmff 387 

Caiamel  padding 383 

Citron  "       2 378 

Ooooanut      "       5 381,  382 

Ghooolate     '*        2 88;^,  383 

Cherry  '*         371 

Cheeaeoake  pudding 388 

Cracker  *'  398 

Cream  "  895 

Currant         '*  875 

Cuetard  "  390 

Cotta^  *'  396 

Delicious  pudding* 398 

**       nasty  pudding 397 

Eve^B  pudding 374 

Economical  pudding 400 

Eztrafine         *»      399 

Fruit  **      374,891 

French  "       391 

Feather  "       897 

Irishpotato      "       394 

Indian  **       399 

JellyroU 387 

Lemon  padding,  4. 380 

Lemon  mdringue,  2 381 

Molasses  pudding,  3 395,  396 


Harrow  padding 3GS 

Original       *•       2 S09,  893 

Orange         "       4 378,  879 

Oneegff        "       305 

Peacndumplings 375 

Penny  podding 400 

Plain        "        401 

Plum        "       4 aa6-SG8 

"  *'       Chiiatmaa. 868 

'*  "       economical,  d 360 

**  "       lEbiglish. a67 

"      rich. 367 

"  "       simpler  kind  of . . .  369 

Poor  maa*s  podding 400 

Puff  "        400 

Preserre  "        387 

Pudding  without  milk  or  eggs ....  -iSS 

Queen  of  poddinga,  5 383-385 

Raspberry  pudding 375 

Rice  "       3 393,394 

Sago  '«        380,390 

Sippet  "        800 

Snow  "        3 386.887 

Snowball        "        396 

Sweet  potato '*        ...304,395 

»*         "         roll 378 

Suet  nodding,  2. 373 

*^    aomplinga 374 

Steam  padding 370 

Superior    "       890 

Sweetmeat  pudding,  2. 388 

Mr8.Spenoe%  '"      391 

Tapioca  "      385 

*'      with  apples 386 

Teacup  pudding 391 

Texas         "      396 

Thickened  milk  podding 347 

Transparent  '*      888,  389 

Troy  "      371 

Tyler  "      395 

Virginia  '*      898 

Washington  '*     297 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 

Brandy  saooe 408 

Cold  *•     8 403 

French     "     402 

Lemon      "     408 

MoUasea  *'     404 

Nioe         " 40» 

Rich         "      403 

Sauce  for  pudding,  3 403,  408 

''     for  boiled  pastry 404 

Wine  sa:ioe.  8 40C 


INDEX. 


525 


PASTRY. 

TAQM 

Apple  pie,  1,2,  8 409,^0 

Blackberry  pie 410 

Cherry  " 409 

Cream  "  1,  a 412 

Currant         " 409 

Custard         "  418 

Cream  tarta 416 

Cheese  cakea,  almond,  1,  2 415 

'*  oomatarcQ. 414 

"  lemon 414 

Damson  pie 408 

Goosebeny  pie 410 

Lemon  "1,2,8,4 40« 

Iiemon  cream  pie 406 

liemon  tarts 415 

Hinoc  meat,  1,2,3,4 411,412 

Molasses  pie,  1 ,  2 4L8,  414 

Orange  pie,  1,2,3 407 

Pastry,  1,2,8 405 

Puffpaste. 405 

Peach  pie 40$ 

Peach  merino  no  pie 407 

Potato  pie  (slioea) 411 

"       "    (sweet) 411 

Prune    "     408 

Prune  tarts 415 

Rhubarb  pie 411 

Soda  cracker  pie 418 

Silver  '*    413 

Sugar  "    418 

Strawberry  shortcake 406 

Washington  pie 418 

Whortleberry" 410 

Fritters  (Bell) 416 

"        (French) 416 

**        (made  with  yeast) 416 

Pancakes  (common) 417 

*'*'       (quire  of  paper 417 


JBLUBS,  BLANC-MANGB, 

CHARLOTTE     BUSSE,     BAKED 

CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  ETC. 

JeUy  (calves*  feet) 419 

oream 421 

crystal 420 

gelatine,  2 420 

"       without  straining  .  420 
"       without    eggs    or 

boilinff 421 

JeQy  wiuiout  boiling. 421 

**    (stock)  419 

Blanc-mange,  4 421,422 

(arrowroot) 422 

(coflTec)    423 


tt 


PAOB 

Blano-mange,  (chocolate) 423 

"  (bustard) 422 

Charlotte  russe,  6 428,424 

**    (strawberry) 434 

Baked  custard,  8 425 

Apples  (baked) 429 

Apple  compote 429 

•^    float 428 

Apples  (nice  dessert  of) 429 

"       (nice  plain  dessert  of) ... .  429 

•'       (iced) 480 

*'       (nice  preparation  of) 429 

Apple  snow 428 

Bonny  clabber.    428 

Cream  (Bavarian)  2 426 

Italian. 426 

**        Rassian. 406 

Spanish,  2. 425,426 

"        Tapioca,  2 427 

Float 428 

Lemon  froth 427 

Slip 428 

Syllabub 427 

ICE-CREAM. 

Bisque  ice-cream 437 

Buttermilk  ice-cream 437 

Caramel  ice-cream. 485 

"  *•         (Norvell  House)  435 

Cocoanut     "  3 436 

ChocoUte     *'  435,486 

(3elatine       "  436 

Ice-cream,  8 432 

"  (without  cream) 437 

Lemon  ice-cream 432 

Orange      "  438 

Peach        "  438 

Pineapple"  434 

Strawberry  ice-cream 488 

VaniUa  "  484 

White  "         436 

jPVoMit  Gu8tard», 

Biaqne. 438 

Ouiimel  custard. 437 

Ftoxen  custard,  2 437, 438 

"      pudding 438 

Plumbi^re. 488 

Plum  pudding  glac6 438 

Sherbet 

Cream  sherbet 486 

Lemon        ''    4 438 

Orange        "     489 


526 


IKDBX. 


Water  Teet. 

Citrunioe 441 

Gelatine  ioe 441 

Onrnge     "2. 440 

Pineapple  ioe,  8 .440,441 

lUspbmT  "   441 

Watermelcn  ioe 441 

FthU  Df$terU. 

AmbrociA,3 44S 

Canteleupee 442 

Peachci  and  cream 442 

Pineapple 442 

Btrawberriea 448 

Watermelons 442 


PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT 
JELLIES. 

Applee  (preaeiTed  for  winter  one).  450 

Apple  mange 450 

**     preserreii  (crab) 450 

Cherry      "        451 

Candied  fmit 454 

Damson  preseryea 451 

Pig  "         452 

Pox  pape    **         451 

Pruit  (patting  up) 453 

Lemon  preserves. 448 

•*        (sliced) 447 

*'     marmalade 448 

"     conserves. 454 

Muskmelon  preserves  (ripe) ......  446 

Orange  '*         446 

"     marmalade,  2 447 

**      oonserves 454 

Peaoh  preserves,  2 448,  449 

*'     marmalade 44U 

"     (brandy)2 449,450 

"    conserves. 454 

Pear  preserves. 450 

Pineapple  preserves 440 

Quince  Jam 451 

Raspberry  jam 452 

Sweetmeat  preserves 444 

Strawberry       **       452 

1am 452 

Svrap  (golaen) 454 

Tomato  preservea 453 

*'       sweetmeats. 453 

Watermelon  marmalade 445 

"         or   muskmelon   pre- 
serves   445 

Apple  jelly,  3 455,456 

^       "      (crab) 456 

Blaokberrj- jelly 454 

Corrant  "  455 

**  (without  cooking).  454 


ii 


rA4 

Cranberry  jelly 

Grape  •* 4S7 

Green  grape  jelly 457 

Orange  **    456 

Jelly  oranges. 457 

Quinoejelly 456 

Tbmato 456 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Almond  macaroons 460 

Caramels,  2 459 

**  (chocolate) 460 

Coooannt  balls. 4(j0 

"        caramcJs,2L 460 

drops. 460 

Cream  candy 4iii9 

Cream  chocolate. 460 

Nut  candy 458 

Holasfles  candy 459 

Sugar  "     2 46S 

"     kisses 458 

WINE. 

Blackberry  wine,  4 463,  463 

Cider  "      467 

Cherry  "      467 

Currant         "      8 466 

Gooseberry    "      466 

Grape  Wine,  3 464 

*'     (Catowba) 464,465 

"  "     (wildbhwk) 4G6 

"  »*     (native) 465 

Pox  gr^ie  wine. 465 

Orange  " 467 

Strawberry    ** 467 

Tomato         " 467 

Apple  toddy,  2 468,  468 

Beer  (cieam) 474 

'*    (ginger) 475 

*'    (lemon) 475 

'*    (small) 475 

**    (summer) 474 

Blaokbeiry  cordial,  2 470 

Cherry  **    471 

Cnh  cider 475 

Cider  (mulled) 475 

Dewberry  cordisl,  2 470,  471 

Eggnog 468 

Lemon  vinegar 474 

*^       or  orange  syrup 474 

Mint  oordial 4?J 

Orgeat 474 

Raspberry  acid 473 

"        vinegar,  2 473 

Regent  punch 460 

Roman  punch 460,  47C 

Rum         "     4ff 


INDKX. 


527 


TAom 

Btnwberry  acid,  2 4T3 

cordial 471 

"  vinegar 478 

Teapanch 469 

THE    SICK-ROOM    DIET    AND 
REMEDIES  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Aromatic  vinegar. 483 

Arrowroot,  3 479,  480 

Asthma,   sore-throat  and  coagh, 

remedy  for 491 

Beef  essence 481 

•*    tea 481 

Boils Am 

"    salvefor 403 

Bone  felon 492 

Blisters,  dressing  for 4'.)3 

Breakfast  for  an  invalid 4S0 

Breast  solve. 487 

Burns  and  scalds 488 

Carolina  small  hominy 4S} 

Carrot  salve  for  blisters 492 

Cold  in  the  head,  cure  for,  2 490 

Colic,  cure  for. 486 

**      cramp,  cure  for. 4S6 

Corns,  remedy  for 41)3 

Coughs,  remedies  for 490 

Chalk    mixture  for    infants  and 

young  children 489 

Chicken  essence 481 

**       jelly 48-i 

''       cholera 4.S8 

Chilblains 48<) 

ChUl  pills. 489 

Cuts 480 

Cracked  wheat 4.S0 

CVoup,  good  treatment  for 492 

Diarrhoea,  remedy  for 489 

Dysentery      '*        '* 489 

Earache  "        "  487 

Inflamed  eyes,  remedy  for 487 

Epilepsy  "         »' 480 

Pood  for  sick  infants 480 

Flames,  to  extinguish  clothing  in.  49.'J 

Jaundice,  remed}'  for 491 

Jamaica  ginger  (Brown's) 484 

Lime-water 484 

Liniment  fa  good) 492 

"        for  rheumatism 492 

*'        for  recent  burns 4S9 

Hashed  finger 488 

Milk  punch 481 

Mnstard 484 

"•      leaves 485 

N'ourishing  way  to  prepare^hicken, 

aqoirrel,  or  beef  for  the  sick  .      482 


PAQB 

Ocean  salt 486 

Panada. 483 

Prickly  heat,  remedv  for. 488 

Poisonoak  ''  '    "2 491 

Poisons,  antidotes  to. 404-496 

Acids 494 

Alkalies. 494 

Arsenic 494 

Carbolic  aoid 494 

Chloral 494 

Chloroform 495 

Copper 495 

Corrosive  sublinjate 495 

Gases 495 

Glass,  in  powder 495 

Iodine 495 

Lead 495 

Nitrate  of  silver 495 

Opium. ^. 495 

Phosphorus '. 495 

Prussic  acid 495 

Strychnine. 496 

Tartar  emetic 4^)6 

Venomous  bites  of  rabid  dogs  and 

serpents 496 

Quinine,  to  take  without  tasting. .  4\Vi 

Racahaut. 4S0 

Seamoss  farina 480 

SeltiEcr  aperient 484 

Soda  mint 484 

Sore  throat,  remedy  for,  o. ..  .4^.5,  4.S6 

Sick-room 470,  496 

Scarlet  fever,  preventive  to,  2,  487,  488 

Snakebites. 4^S8 

Toast,  drv   482 

**    milk 48;i 

"    scalded 483 

Toothache  drops 487 

Tliieves'  viuej^ar 483 

Weak  back,  remedy  for 4*.>4 

Wine  whey 480 

Whooping-cough,  remedy  for....  490 


HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Ants  and  bugs,  to  destroy 503 

Bedbugs  **      '*        503 

'*         poison 503 

Brasses,  to  clean 501 

Carpets,  to  wash. 4<.)9 

*'       to  remove  ink  ftom 5'K) 

Cement  for  rubber  and  glass 503 

Egg-beater 5J2 

Egg  stains,  to  remove  from  silver 

spoons 501 

Floors  to  oil 499 

"    tc  riyo 499 


628 


INDEX. 


Fnndtaie  to  «laAn 800 

^*      uDTAmisliod,  todeui..  600 

"      poliirii,2 500,601 

HbuM-cleaniog  (direotuNU  for)496-498 

Knf  ves  and  tiai,  to  olean. 502 

**     to  rcmoYe  rust  from 603 

''     to  whiten  handles  of 509 

Moaqnitoes 604 

Marble  Blaba,  to  dean 600 

OU-dotb,  to  wash,  2 499 

Painty  to  dean 499 

Rats 604 

Red  ante,  remedy  for 603 

Bapolio  for  kitchen  nw 502 

Silver,  to  dean,  2. 501 

Shading  glasa,  mixture  for 503 

Soap,  conoentnted  lye 504 

WaU    paper,    to   remove    grease 

from 600 

Washing  mixture 504 

Whitemih,  outdoor 496 

"  indoor 496 


BBCIPES  FOR  RESTORING  OLD 
CLOTHES.  SETTING  COLORS, 
RBMOVn^G  STAINS,  ETC 

Black  oashmere,  to  wash. 606 

Black  crape  veUs,  to  renew. 506 

Black  siUc,  to  renew  old. 506 

''       ''     tofreshenold 506 

Blue  calicoes,  to  keep  bright  and 

fresh 507 

Colon,  to  set 507 

Colors,  to  restore 507 

Cloth,  to  remove  spots  from 505 

CSoth,  soap  for  removing  grease 

from 505 

Clothes  to  dean 505 


Pmit steins,  to  remove.... 907 

'•^    or  ink  stains,  to  vemoTe. ....  507 

Iron  mat,  to  remove 508 

Mildew.    ''        "      507 

"       Tjabanqnesolntioitfo....  507 

Ydvet,  to  restore  the  pile  of. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

Almond  bandoline 514 

Ammonia 508 

Borax 500 

Bottle  wax 510 

Blood  staina,  to  remove 514 

Camphor  ice 519 

''       salve 512 

Colddeam 511 

Chaps,  lotion  for 511 

Dandniif,  to  remove 514 

Fertilizer  for  strawberries. 511 

Grafting  wax 510 

Hair-oU,  8 513 

"    dye,  2 513 

"    tonic 518 

**    restorative. 513 

**    todean. 514 

"    brashes,  to  dean 514 

Herbs,  to  dry 511 

Ink  (black) 509 

**    (red) 509 

Liquid  glue 510 

*^        blacking 510 

Lip  salve  (red) 511 

Rose  bandoline 514 

Shoe  bladdng 510 

Shampoo  liquor 513 

Sozodont 512 

Tooth  powder 512 

''         ''       diarooaL 518 


THE  BND. 


A-ftMOlte  ftom  the  foregoing  Beceif>tB  ^  ■ 
do  your  Cooking  on  ' '         -■  '  Ij 


i  HE  CHAMPION  MtNITOR. 

IT  IS  MADB  TN  SIZES  TO  SUIT  ALL; 

WITH  OK  WITHOUT  RESEBVOIKS  (HIGH  OR  LOW). 

AND  SIX-HOLE  STOVE.* 

'Prices    Ranging'    fi-om    #16    to    #OS. 


tgST-OLASS  in  eveir  re«pecf.     Ovek  laros  and  vill  iudk.  tbor- 


,   protected  kna  furnUhed  with  ivery  convenience.     All  parts 
the  Are  made  kxtka  biaty  and  dvbablb. 

•Itont  Bakars  and  Economical  In  Fual. 

lOt-'Obtunable  at  your  dealers,  lond  for  Aill  informalbn  to  the 

■M,  ' 

1>/L.  -JEt:ElSOTt  &c  GO. 

Y  CINCINNATI,   O.  , 


^lealth!  Comfort!  Elegance 

rDR  SCOTTS— "'^^Si 

I      W0  I  %•  ^0  \0  \0     I        I      ^J  ccl«bra>cd  EleoHc  Brmihtj 

«  ^mAt%     I    \.  uncy'wlihin  Ibc'rucb  oC  cnry 


/• 


,  Iftlit  •ad  Improve  th*  irlMBBfle  of  1 
her  flnr«,  ■knold  «!*«  UMrM  aa^ 
ItttBMol^tfi  trial.     It  hu  bCEA  tfbuii^ 

musclcf  ADd  tiuDH  nore  pluk  ud 
yicldiiiE.  and  Ii  u  *rgacd  fron  Ihk  Ikai 
U«M  ■«»  «v  tMM  Cmak  ««  m  w 
««cii%  la  mmMIm  Mm  Mm  te  wt  «- 
•iNd  Itm  BHiiaui  4m  luftfl.  a  !«&«■ 


^'^: 


the  mt^MDA  6l  II 


"u^^o''™  "" ' 


■thaw  Conab  wtOtart  Mar-    fW 
....    1^,^  ,^  ^. 


brtad'h.  >nd  thickncx  u'tfai  u>u^  tw) 
bulk  or  rib.     By  thu  ncut  he  ii  able  n 

SfCiervc  IhAI  tywrnttry  mnd  luhlnt-n  to 
ninble  m  ■  xhod  conci  ll T>  i1firni«j 
by  prDf»sir.n9l  men  thu  iberc  »  hardJy 
«d^»e  which  EJeniiciiy  iwd  M:4i.«- 


■  fnir  itpreienutioB  of  ih 
•h.o  liny  cotwi  Bid.  ihey 

*Mi-9ei< 


I>F.  Wm.  A.  Hummond,  of  V« 
York,  l>K  SutEcon-Cenenl «/  ihc  [Ts..  I 
■n  eminent  auThatiiy,  publitbEi  ■l»i(  I 
miraculoul  cuici  made  by  bin.  ud  tHi 
mcdinl  men  daily  praciicc  ihc  ume.  f  « 
Aik  your  own  pbytUrin.  The  cut  si.u  !  f 
be  worn  dailyin  place  of  the  ordinary  ooi.  I     ^ 

lade  wilh  better  luterijiJ  iind  wotliinaiiihip  I     t 

1.°."^*",™"^.    1-heyaie  ■ll'or'hcMiu 
B  in  leXute,  beaulifiilly  embnid. 


,    cred  and  uioimed.   Wc  will  xend  ii  on  iri^BaatpaM.an(«C«*t«lt3.  which  will  br  iciurncd  ( 

;    if  noL  a>  re|.>»eiited.    In.-loK  .ocw,  exirs  aQiTgnnrnBierMfe delivery.    Wc -ill  w™d  i<  J 

I     l«r.xpre«.C.O.D.  n.  youf  e.pcBK,  wilh  privilege  o?  «™dnatio.-bui  cprewnpe  add.  ™,-  (  i 

,.    tideruMy  lo  voiir  can.   Or  request  your  neareii  DtyCoodaor  Fancy  .Siure  to  Dbiiis  ope  r«r  ;  > 

I    .vou,  anil  be  iure  Dr.  licutt's  nnme  ia  ua  ihe  canct.'  Remlltuicet  ihould  ba  mujf  payidile  id  I  ■ 

'    !UBO.  A.  SCOTT,  (i«:9  UmnilHiiy,  New  York.    They  can  be  made  in  Chcc&  Dnfb,  ■ 

"■M-oeire  Orders.  Curr.^n^y.  t  Stiinpi.     LiRIIAL    DikoUnt  TO  Till    Tl'iA.     AnnU  ■ 

niinnad  in  rT^ry  To.rti.    nn   SciiJ  fur  cicruli,  of  Dr   Seoul.  BtetTnic  Hui  Viuui.  ■ 


'grand  depot,     a    PHILADELPHIA,! 


\ 


S  ANO  ^h 


NESTLES  HULK. POOD 


»     • 


tl^^DE^J^^^^^  MARK 


.^^ 


'» 


Is   the    WLOST    I»Or»ITX-^tl.    IT'OOl^    the   World    Over  for 

jINFANTS  AND  INYAtlDS. 

IT  contains  only  Milk,  Wheaten  Bread  Crust,  and  Cane  Sugar,  and  requires 
ONLY  WATKB  to  prepare  it  for. use,  thus  removing  all  the  danger  of  cov's 
milk,  80  /requently  impure,  diseased,  and  sour. 

FOR  INFJIIITS 

It  makes  firn^  flesh  and  muscle,  tough  b<>iie,  keeps  the  bowels  well  regulated, 
the  l>lood  in  a  healthy  condition,  and  agrees  with  a  iarger  percentage  thin 
any  other  artilicial  food. 

•  F3R  INVALIDS 

It  is  largely  used  in  Nkkvou8  Diseases,  Gastralgia,  Chronic  Catarrh,  and 
U4cer  of  the  Stomach,  Inflammation  of  the  BpWels,  Indigestion  and  Dyspep- 
sia, Dysentery  and  Diarrhea,  Typhoid  and  other  fevers.  *  Experience  has 
shown  that  nothing  will  digest  more  easily,  keep  up  the  strength  more 
uniformly,  worry. the  stomach  less,  and  permit  it  to  recover  its  normal  tooe 
more  quickly  than  this  Food.  li  is  often  retained  on  the  stomaeh  when  etcnf 
thincf  else^is  r^ecied.  Ask  your  physician  about  it,  or  send  for  a  pamphlet 
giving  full  detj^ils.  • 

.      NESTL^'S  CONDENSED  SWISS  MILK 

Should  be  on  every  breakfast-table  in  the  land.  We  guarantee  it  to  be  fr« 
from  all  adulteration,  and  the  richest  milk  in  the  market.  It  gives  a  richnesfr 
and  smoothness  to  coffee  almost  equnj  to  pure  cream.  9hos&  who  have  used 
the  Milk  Food  will  enjoy  the  Condensed  Milk^also,  and  know  it  can  be  relied 
upon.     For  sale  by  all  flrst-class  Druggists  and  Grocers, 

THOIVIAS  LEEMINO*&  CO.  * 

ISTo.  18   Ooi:.TiTT!C3-B  I'xuA.CBJ,  JSTsj-w  YO»B"  OX'X'K, 

# 

f 

80LE  AGENTS  FOR  HJSNRI  NESTL£.  VEVEY,  SWITZERLAND. 


•i^OTICES  OF  THE  PRESS. 


Virginia  Is  do«  only  the  mother  of  presidents,  but  la  the  parent  of  good  11 
-woTnen  of  all  rankjB.are£unousaf  hoiuckeepcrs.—^.  0.  IHcctifune. 

The  book  is  -Hlited  by  the  granddaughter  of  Patrick  Ilenry,  and  herself  on 
tcLxnouB  hauaekee  •crs  of  Virginia.    We  notice  many  historical  names  in  the  list  of  gd; 
ulors. —  Western  {Ky.)  Oiiizai. 

IP  vwo  hundti  '\  and  fifty  matrons  of  Virginia  can  not  teach  their  sisters  in  other  states 
Bomettiiiig  these  sisters  don't  know  about  housekeeping,  then  com  bread  is  a  failure,  and 
L«a<iy  Martha  Washington  a  free  and  independent  American  myth.— Chicago  ItUer-Oeean, 

TiiK  author  places  within  reach  of  all  American  housekeepers  thenvxcellent  domestic 
principles  and  practices  which  have  long  distinguished  the  homes  of  the  "Old  Dominion." 
— CincinnaH  (0.)  Commercial. 

These  recipes  w  ire  furnished  the  author  by  the  best  housekeepers  of  Virginia,  and  are 
the  samered  experi  tnee  of  the  last  century.— LyneMwi^  Virginian, 

It  is  destined  tc  create  a  sensation  among  housekeepers  all  over  the  Union.  It  fairly 
makes  one*s  mouth  water  to  read  over  the  recipes.— Paris  (JTy.)  Tnte  Kentnckian, 

It  places  within  the  reach  of  every  American  housekeeper  the  principles  and  practices 
of  t>^'^  homes  of  the  commonwealth.  Many  of  the  recipes  have  been  handed  down  from 
mo  'I .  :<'»  daughter  -r  four  or  five  generations*  s^nd  have  successfully  wilSistood  the  rivalry 
of  1   •  >i  i "  n  '1  ishes.—   'Mion  ( Mat*,)  Tran$cripl. 

'  iu>  bo..L  :.,'iKt  I  levitably  sell  well,  not  only  in  Virginia,  but  wherever  are  found  any 
of  lite  St...}' i!-.'ii  iL^'ltdren  of  the  dear  old  mother  of  presidents.— LouwvfUe  Courier- 
Journal. 

No  more  v^uable  vou::.  >  i  .    -  has  ever  been  made  to  the  domestic  literature  of 
America.— Jjy»c*6ary  Prow. 

I'i  ^s  the  compilation  of  valuable  rv  <  u-    '^^mishcd  by  nearly  three  hundred  famous 
houaevs  iv«  s  'ii  lh<'  ♦*  Old  Dominion.*'— Jfem;'/.  ts  J/ ,  •    '. 

iTiplaceii  uitMii  t:u  vvni^h  of  [$ve^Amerii:iu  Louv  ,.  >ner  the  principles  and  practices 
of  the  famous  Vi:/tir  .  hcM  ^JtittiMsily  prououiK  <•.:  -^o  throngs  of  admirers  who 
have  gathered  from  all  i  .  \,x*..  f  //^..^^Tlllpfi,  around  the  u<:  .  ^h  boards  of  Virginia's 
illustrious  sons,  as  the  ygfk\/ra  .-  w/.>.<  «v,  I5^>j^k.'si  i«  akt.— J\v  i.  ''<«,.•  Home  Journal. 


all  the  arts  known 
useful,  and  in  the  prac 
over  the  rest  of  manki 


This  is  a  valuably 
in  our  country. -Jferap. 

TujtY  know  how  to  cooE 
the  luU  scope  of  old  v^-r^ 

iToontaiii^  III  •  ♦■^••'.;t  v ...^lu 
Vngh 
goo 

pre:;'.i"l,  AVl»  IN    ;i    I' 


^  lj'.ii'-t'ki«»iii"P  i"^  in-vo.''  dispute  most 
.'  .liwayv  justly  claii.i.M  ^  "Eminence 


irable  syiwu:  "'  :'"'^»^1  liviuu  ►   .  ^n 


}'i^^.^  li\  i»   J> 


uuoi  com  cake  in  Virginia,  and  tb. 


«•  uive- 


*  t» 


nn 


P contain^  lli  •  »-^'*';^t  ••  ;.wu  i 
.r.uj;.--hait..ri{'l  :  |  |^    •(lf| 


presidoQ^  8kM»^^'^' 


ifftlf. 


liftl 


8 '032  9  1 


Virginia  ooo'  - 


\s  'vdume  has  \»  "u 

>,^v  -r^.  WHO  ajLVK 


