T958 

(1879 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


ENDOWED  BY  THE 

DIALECTIC  AND  PHILANTHROPIC 

SOCIETIES 


TX715 
.T958 
1879 


UNIVERSITY  OF  N.C.  AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


10001846 


75 


This  book  is  due  at  the  LOUIS  R.  WILSON  LIBRARY  on  the 
last  date  stamped  under  "Date  Due."  If  not  on  hold  it  may  be 
renewed  by  bringing  it  to  the  library. 


DATE 
DUE 


RET. 


DATE 
DUE 


RET. 


JUH  U419U 


FEB  2  61995 


f.  '0C-- 


MAY  in  1995 


m(^ 


'Mjnmn 


n.ijc  f.  1 1W 


UlU 


AUG  31 


"Mr^ 


'■  I  If"  ■'■'  ^   ■'i-.rt4 


MAY  01 


lAY'f)  4*93 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

University  of  North  Carolina  at  Chapel  Hill 


http://www.archive.org/details/housekeepinginoltyre 


HOUSEKEEPING 


IN  OLD  VIRGINIA.      ,-r^'^.g 


CONTAINING 


Contributions  from  Two  Hundred  and  Fifty  of  Virginia's 

Noted  Housewives,  Distinguished  for  their  Skill 

IN  THE  Culinary  Art  and  other  Branches 

OF  Domestic  Economy. 


EDITED   VK 


MARION  CABELL  TYREE. 


"Who  can  find  a  virtuous  woman?  for  her  price  is  far  above  rubies.  .  .  .  She 
looketh  well  to  the  ways  of  her  household,  and  eateth  not  the  bread  of  idleness."—, 
Prov.  xxxi,  lo,  27. 


LOUISVILLE,  KY.: 

JOHN  P.  MORTON  AND  COMPANY. 

1879. 


COPYRIGHTED   BY 

JOHN  P.  MORTON  AND  COMPANY. 

1879. 


GENERAL  CONTENTS. 


PAGI 


Preface - '? 

List  of  Ccntributors 11 

Bread 19 

Coft'ee,  Tea,  and  Chocolate 61 

Milk  and  Butter 65 

Soup 68 

Oysters  and  other  Shell  Fish . 85 

Fish 97 

Game 107 

Meats 114 

Beef  and  Veal 136 

Mutton  and  Lamb 168 

Poultry 176 

Salads 190 

Sauces 200 

Brunswick  Stews,  Gumbo,  and  Side  Dishes 211 

Eggs 232 

Vegetables 238 

Pickles  and  Catsups 255 

Cake 304 


▼1  CONTENTS. 


PAGI 


Icing 348 

Gingerbread 350 

,  Small  Cakes 353 

Puddings ; 365 

Pudding  Sauces 40J 

Pastry 404 

Fritters  and  Pancakes 416 

Jelly,  Blanc-mange,  Charlotte  Russe,  Baked  Custard, 

Creams,  and  Miscellaneous  Desserts 417 

Ice  Cream  and  Frozen  Custard 430 

Fruit  Desserts 442 

Preserves  and  Fruit  Jellies 443 

Confectionery 458 

Wines 461 

Beverages,  Cordials,  etc 468 

The  Sick-Room — Diet  and  Remedies  for  the  Sick. .  .  476 

Ilouse-cleaning,  etc 497 

Recipes  for  Restoring  Old  Clothes,  Setting  Colors, 

Removing  Stains,  etc 505 

Miscellaneous  Recipes 508 


PREFACE 


Virginia,  or  the  Old  Dominion,  as  her  children  delight  to 
call  her,  has  always  been  famed  for  the  style  of  her  living. 
Taught  by  the  example  of  her  royal  colonial  governors,  and 
the  numerous  adherents  of  King  Charles,  wlio  brought  hither 
in  their  exiJe  the  graces  and  luxuriousness  of  his  brilliant 
court,  she  became  noted  among  the  colonies  for  the  princely 
hospitality  of  her  people  and  for  the  beauty  and  richness  of  their 
living.  But  when  at  length  her  great  son  in  the  House  of 
Burgesses  sounded  the  cry  of  war,  and  her  people  made  haste 
to  gird  themselves  for  the  long  struggle,  her  daughters,  not  to 
be  outdone  either  in  services  or  patriotism,  set  about  at  once 
the  inauguration  of  a  plan  of  rigid  retrenchment  and  reform  in 
the  domestic  economy,  while  at  the  same  time  exhibiting  to 
their  sisters  a  noble  example  of  devotion  and  self-sacrifice. 

Tearing  the  glittering  arms  of  King  George  from  their  side- 
boards, and  casting  them,  with  their  costly  plate  and  jewels,  as 
offerings  into  the  lap  of  the  Continental  Congress,  they  intro- 
duced in  their  homes  that  new  style  of  living  in  which,  discard- 
ing all   the  showy  extravagance  of  the  old,  and  retaining  only 


Vlll  PKEFACB. 

its  inexpensive  graces,  they  succeeded  in  perfecting  that  system 
which,  surviving  to  this  day,  has  ever  been  noted  for  its  beau- 
tiful and  elegant  simplicity. 

This  system,  which  combines  the  thrifty  frugality  of  New 
England  with  the  less  rigid  style  of  Carolina,  has  been  justly 
pronounced,  by  the  throngs  of  admii'ers  who  have  gathered  from 
all  quarters  of  the  Union  around  the  generous  boards  of  her 
illustrious  sons,  as  the  very  perfection  of  domestic  art. 

It  is  the  object  of  the  compiler  of  this  book,  for  she  does  not 
claim  the  title  of  author,  to  bring  within  the  reach  of  every 
American  housekeeper  who  may  desire  it,  the  domestic  prin- 
ciples and  practices  of  these  famous  Virginia  homes.  In  doing 
this  she  has  not  sought  to  pursue  the  plan  adopted  by  so  many 
authors  of  such  books — to  depend  upon  her  own  authorshi'p  for 
her  rule.  She  confesses  that  in  this  matter  her  labors  have 
been  largely  editorial. 

Through  a  long  life  it  has  been  her  good  fortune  to  be  a  fre- 
quent visitor,  and  often  the  intimate  guest  and  kinswoman,  at 
many  of  these  homes  ;  and  she  has  sought,  by  the  opportunities 
thus  afforded,  and  guided  by  her  own  extensive  experience  as  a 
housekeeper,  to  gather  and  select  from  these  numerous  sources 
those  things  which  seemed  to  her  best  and  most  useful  to  the 
practical  housewife,  and  which,  carefully  observed,  would  bring 
the  art  within  reach  of  all  who  have  the  ambition  to  acquire  it. 

It  will  be  seen  that  she  is  indebted  to  near  250  contributors 
to  her  book      Among  these  will  be  found  many  names  famoui 


PBSFAOS.  IX 

through  the  land.  Associated  wdth  them  will  be  discovered 
others  of  less  national  celebrity,  but  who  have  acquiied  among 
their  neighbors  an  equally  merited  distinction  for  the  beautiful 
order  and  delightful  cuisine  of  their  homes. 

The  labors  of  the  writer  have  been  greatly  lightened  by  the 
kindness  of  these  contributors.  And  she  desires  in  this  public 
way  to  renew  her  thanks  for  the  aid  which  they  have  given  her, 
but  even  more  for  the  goodness  which  prompts  them,  at  cost  of 
their  sensitiveness,  to  allow  her  to  append  their  names  to  the 
recipes  which  they  furnish. 

The  book,  after  great  care  in  its  preparation,  is  now  offered 
to  the  public  with  much  confidence.  All  that  is  here  presented 
has  been  so  thoroughly  tested,  and  approved  by  so  many  of  the 
best  housekeepers  in  Virginia,  that  she  feels  it  must  meet  with 
a  cordial  and  very  general  reception  at  the  hands  of  all  accom- 
plished housewives  throughout  the  land,  and  will  supply  a  long- 
felt  and  real  need. 

If  she  shall  thus  succeed  in  disseminating  a  knowledge  of  the 
practice  of  the  most  admirable  system  of  domestic  art  known  in 
our  country  y  if  she  shall  succeed  in  lightening  the  labors  of  the 
housewife  by  placing  in  her  reach  a  guide  which  will  be  found 
always  trusty  and  reliable  y  if  she  sliall  thus  make  her  ,tasks 
lighter  and  home-life  sweeter ;  if  she  shall  succeed  in  contribut- 
ing something  to  the  health  of  American  children  by  instruct- 
ing their  mothers  in  the  art  of  preparing  light  and  wholesome 
and  palatable  food  ;  if  she,  above  all,  shall  succeed  in  making 

American  homes  more  attractive  to  American  husbands,  and  spare 
1* 


X  PBEFAGIu 

them  a  resort  to  liotels  and  saloons  for  those  simple  luxuries  which 
their  wives  know  not  how  to  p>Tovide  j  if  she  shall  thus  add  to  the 
comfort,  tv)  the  health  and  happy  coutentnient  of  these,  she  \vi\\ 
have  proved  in  some  measure  a  public  benefactor,  and  will  feel 
amply  repaid  for  all  the  labor  her  work  has  cost. 

MAKION  CABELL  TYREE. 

Ltnohbdro,  Va  ,  January.  1877. 


LIST   OF   CONTRIBUTORS. 


Mrs.  Robert  Alexander Fredericksburg,  Va. 

Mks.  John  J.  Ambler Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Judge  Anderson Lexington. 

Mrs.  Charlotte  Armstrong Richmond. 

Miss  Nannie  Avekett Amherst  Co. 

"  Mozis  Addums." Richmond. 

Mrs.  R.  T.  H.  Adams Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  .John  T.  Anderson Virginia. 

Mrs.  John  Thomi-son  Brown Nelson  Co. 

Mrs.  Benjamin  J.  Barbour Orange  Co. 

Mrs.  Judge  Barton Fredericksburg 

Miss  ]\L^ry  Bella  Beale Richmond. 

Mrs.  Orville   Bell Liberty. 

Mrs.  C.  S.  Bliss Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  S.  Brady Wheeling,  West  Va. 

Mrs.  Emma  BiiECKiNRiDOE\ Fincastle. 

Mrs.  Julia  Breckinridge/ " 

Mrs.  Brinckerhoff Fredericksburg 

Mrs.  John  Brooke Lexington. 

Mrs.  ]VI.  B Warrenton,  Fauquier  Co. 

Mrs.  Bruce Virginia. 

Mrs.  Marcus  B.  Buck Front  Royal.  Warren  Co, 

Mrs.  Armste^d  Burwell Franklin  Co 


I 


XH  LIST   OF   CONTKIBUTOK8. 

Mrs.  CaAiiLEs  W.  Bukwbll Ellicot  City,  Md 

Mrs.  Wm.  Burwell Georo-ia. 

Mrs.  CnARiiES  Button Lyucbbui"^ 

Dr.  Burney Montgomery,  Ala 

Mrs.  George  A.  Burks Lyjichburg, 

Mrs.  Bro.vddus Mecklenburg  Co. 

Mrs.  Byrd Viiginia. 

Mrs.  Wii-liam  Cameron Petersburg, 

Mrs.  Clara  Cabell Nelson  Co. 

Mrs.  Louis  W.  Cabell. Buckingham  Co 

Mrs.  Makgaret  C.  Cabell "  "• 

Mrs.  H.  Coalter  Cabell Richmond. 

Mrs.  Mary  C.  Campbell Baltimore,  Md. 

/Mrs.  Thos.  Campbell Bedford  Co. 

N.MRS.  Wm.  Campbell "        " 

Mrs.  Eliza  H.  Carrington Halifax  Co. 

Mrs.  Paul  Carrington "       " 

Mrs.  Fannle  Carrington Charlotte  Co. 

Mrs.  Henry  Carrington "         " 

Mrs.  Theo.  M.  Carson Lynchburg 

Mr.  Edward  Camm   " 

Mrs.  Fannie  Chalmers " 

Mrs.  Addison  Cobbs Charleston,  West   Va. 

Mrs.  Alice  Coleman Halifax  Co. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Coleman Williamsburg. 

Mrs.  John  L.  Coles Northumberland  Co 

Mrs.  Peyton  Coles Albemarle  Co. 

Mrs.  Tucker  Coles "  " 

Mrs.  Raleigh  Colston Richmond. 

Mus.  H.  P.  Chew Fredericksburg, 

Mrs.  Camillus  Christlan Lynchburg. 

Dr.  E.  a.  Craiohill , " 

Mrs.  D.  Cone Warren  Co 


LIST   OF   CONTRIBUTORS.  Xlll 

Mrs.  Davis Chesterfield  Co 

Mrs.  Robert  J.  Davis Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Mary  M.  Dame Danville. 

Mrs.  John  B.  Dangerfield Alexandria. 

Mrs.  Addison  M.  Davies Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Horatio  Davis Pittsylvania  Co. 

Mrs.  Frank  Deane Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Jos.  Deans Gloucester  Co., 

Mrs.  Judge  Asa  Dickinson Prmce  Edward  Co, 

Mrs.  Melville  Dunn Richmond. 

Mrs.  Andrew  Dunn Petersburg 

Mrs.  Duke Suffolk  Co. 

Miss  D.  D Norfolk. 

Miss  Didlakb Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Maria  Edmonds Prince  Edward  Co.  • 

Mrs.  John  T.  Edwards Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Early " 

Mrs.  Early " 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Ewing Harrisonburg. 

Mrs.  Elam Virginia. 

Mrs.  Fitz  Hugh " 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Picklin Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  F.  F.  Fitzgerald Farmville, 

Mrs.  J,  H.  Figgat , .  Fincastle. 

Mrs.  Col.  Forsberg Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Graves Kentucky. 

Mrs.  Caroline  Garland Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Mary  L.  Garland " 

Mrs.  John  P.  Gardner Nelson  Co. 

Mrs.  Judge  Geo.  H.  Gilmer Pittsylvania  Co. 

Mrs.  p.  D.  Goodwin Wytheville. 

Mrs.  Judge  Goolrick Fredericksburg 

Mrs.  Janb  V.  Qoolbick " 


Xl\  LIST    OF    CONTKIBUTORS. 

Mrs.  K  p.  Goggin Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Susan  Goggin Bedford  Co 

Mrs.  Newton  Gordon Lynchburg. 

Mrs    Isabella  Gilmer " 

Mr&  Isabella  Harrison Charles  City  Co. 

Mrs.  Ei,vira  Henry Charlotte  Co. 

Mrs    e.  Winston  Henry "  " 

Mrs.  Mary  G.  Harding Staunton. 

Mbb.  Fred.  Hickey Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  John  W.  Holt " 

Mrs.  Ann  Holt Liberty. 

Mrs.  Ferdinand  C.  Hutter Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Hubbard Shepherdstown,  West  Va 

Mrs.  Wm.  L.  Hyland Parkersburg,  West  Va. 

Mrs.  Edward  Ingle Roanoke  Co. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Irby New  Orleans,  La. 

- — •  Mrs.  Joseph  M.  Jones Kentucky. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Jones Bedford  Co. 

Mrs.  Arthur  .Johns Northampton  Co. 

Mrs.  Col.  Johnson Lexington. 

Mrs.  .J.  Johnson Abingdon. 

Mrs.  Thomas  L.  Johnson Lynchljurg. 

Mrs.  David  Kent Pulaski  Co. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  ICinckle Lyuchljurg. 

Mrs.  Kinsolving Halifax  Co. 

Mrs.  Knox Fredericksburg. 

'  Mrs.  Dr.  Henry  Latham Lynchburg. 

Mr.  K Norfolk. 

Mrs.  L.  D.  Leighton Petersburg. 

Mrs.  Col.  Augustine  Leptwich Lynchburg. 

'' — Mrs.  Gen.  Robert  E.  Lee "  Arlington,"  Westmoreland  Co 

— Miss  Mildred  C.  Lee Lexington 

Mrs.  Gov.  John  Letcher .- ** 


LIST   OF    CONTBIBUTOK8.  X\ 

Mrs.  Dr.  Robert  T.  Lemmon Campbell  Co 

Mrs.  Andrew  Lewis Harrisonburg 

Mrs.  James  LANonoRNE Lynchburg 

Mrs.  John  A.  Langhgrne Montgomery  Co 

Mrs.  Nannie  A.    Langhgrne Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Richard  T.  Lacy " 

Mrs.  M.  L 

Mrs.  Geg.  D.  Lawrence Miss. 

Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Little Fredericksburg. 

Mrs,  J.  D.  L Lyncliburg. 

L.  D.  L Albemarle  Co 

Mrs.  Gov.  Mabte Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  John  Mason. " 

Mrs.  O.  Massie Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

Mrs.  Patrick  Massik Nelson  Co. 

Mrs,  Sarah  Meem Abingdon. 

Mrs.  John  F.  Miller Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Charles  L.  C.  Minor Blacksburg.'- 

Mrs.  C.  C,  McPiiail Chariotte  Co. 

Mrs.  John  R.  McDaniel Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Mart  McNutt Prince  Edward  Co 

Mrs.  R.  K,  Meade Petersburg. 

Mrs.  Wm.  H.  Mosby Amherst  Co.  ■ 

Mrs.  Alice  Murrel Lynchburg. 

Mrs,  Wm,  McFarland Missouri 

Mrs.  C.  V,  McGee Ala 

Mrs.  McGavock Pulaski  Co. 

Gen.  M Virginia. 

Mrs.  James  J.  Moore Richmond, 

Mrs.  Geo.  Newton Norfolk, 

Miss  Fannie  Nelson Yorktown 

Mrs.  Geo,  Nichols Bedford  Co 

Mrs.  Qkn.  T.  T,  Nichols New  Orleana,  La 


XVI  LIST    OF    CONTRIBUTORS. 

Mrs.  Charles  Norvell Lynchburg 

Miss  Norwood Richmond 

Mrs.  Robert  L.   Owen Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Palmer Saltville 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Page Norfolk 

Mrs.  David  Pierce Wythevilla 

Mrs.  John  D.  Powell Portsmouth. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Ballard  Preston Montgomery  Co 

Mrs.  Gen.  Robert  Preston "  " 

Mrs.   Jas.  Preston "  " 

Mrs.  Preston Virginia- 

Mrs.  Annis  E.  Preston Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Richard  Pollard " 

Mrs.  James  F.  Payne " 

Miss  Eliza  Payne " 

Mrs.  Annie  Phillips Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  Edmund  H.  Pendleton Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Mrs.  Price Charlotte  Co. 

Mrs.  John  H.  Parker Chesterfield  Co. 

Mrs.  Reid Norfolk. 

-Mrs.  ]VLvttie  Reid Winchester. 

Mrs.  David  S.  Read Roanoke  Co. 

Mrs.  Wm.  C.  Rives Albemarle  Co. 

Mrs.  J.  Henry  Rives Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Roane " 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Robinson " 

Mrs.  W.  Russell  Robinson Richmond. 

Mrs.  Dr.  Edward  T.  Robinson " 

Mrs.  John  Roberts Fredericksburg. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Ruggles " 

Mrs.  Dr.  Sale Liberty. 

Mrs.  Geo.  D.  Saunders Buckingham  Co, 

Mrs.  Ann  Saunders Lynchburg^ 


LIST   OF    00NTK1BUT0B8.  XVU 

Mk8.  James  A.  Skddon Goochland  Co_— 

Mrs.  Dr.  Semple Ala. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Service Alexandria 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Shields Richmond. 

Mrs.  Jas.  W.  Shields King  Geo.  Co. 

Mrs.  H.  T.  Silverthorn Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Strother " 

Mr.  Wm.  A.  Strother " 

Mrs.  John  W.  Stone " 

Mrs.  John  F.  Slaughter " 

Miss  Lillie  Slaughter " 

Mrs.  Kate  Slaughter " 

Mrs.  Judge  Spence " 

Mrs.  Henderson  Suter Liberty. 

Mrs.  Harriet  Stansbury New  Orleans,  La- 

Mrs.  Shannon Miss 

Miss  Ellen  Shute New  Orleans,  La 

Miss  Rebecca  Smith Norfolk. 

Mrs.  Charles  Sharp " 

Mrs.  Sparks Virginia 

Mrs.  Col.  Smith Pittsylvania  Co 

Mrs.  a.  H.  M.  Taliaferro Orange  Co 

Mrs.  Mart  W.  Taylor Campbell  Co 

Mrs.  Major  Thos.  L.  Taylor Campbell  C.  H • 

Miss  Julia  Thompson Williamsburg. 

Mrs.  C.  L.  Thompson Richmond. 

Mrs.  J.  Hanson  Thomas Baltimore,  Md. 

Mrs.  Eli  Tutwiler Lexington. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Tyree Lynchburg 

Mrs.  John  H.  Tyree     " 

Mrs.  Jas.  Taylor.  . .       , .  ,      Fredericksburg. 

Miss  Edmonia  Taylor Orange  Co. 

MBb.  Tucker Virginia, 


XVlll  LIST   OF    CONTBIBUTOBS. 

Mrs.  Judge  Watson Abingdon 

•  Miis.  Dii.  Thos.  Walker Lynchburg 

Mrs.  Col.   W " 

Mrs.  Col.  Rorert  E.  Withers Wytheville. 

Hits    Philip  T.  Withers Lynchburg, 

Mrs.  Dr.  R.  W.  Withers  .  .  , Campbell  Co. 

Mrs.  Edmund  Withers Nelson  Co. 

Mrs.  Dr.   Wingpield Maryland 

Mrs.  K.  M.  C.  Wingfield Portsmouth 

Mrs.  J.  C.   Wheat Winchester. 

Mrs.  Judge  Wharton Liberty. 

Miss  Emily  Whitehead Norfolk, 

Mrs.  Robert  VVhitehead Nelson  Co 

Mrs.  John  M.  Warwick Lynchburg. 

Mrs.  Wm.   N.  Weleord " 

Mr.  Philip  Withers " 

Miss  Kate  Wilson *' 

Dr.  Tiios.  L.  AValker " 

Miss  Nannie  S.  Langhorne *• 


HOUSEKEEPING  IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


BREAD. 

Bread  is  so  vitally  imjiorfcant  an  element  in  our  nourishment 
that  I  have  assigned  to  it  the  first  place  in  my  work.  Truly,  as 
Frederika  Bremer  says,  "  when  the  bread  rises  in  the  oven,  the 
heart  of  the  housewife  rises  with  it,"  and  she  might  have  added 
that  the  heart  of  the  housewife  sinks  in  sympathy  with  the 
sinking  bread. 

t  would  say  to  housewives,  be  not  daunted  by  one  failure,  nor 
by  twenty.  Resolve  that  you  will  have  good  bread,  and  never 
cease  striving  after  tliis  result  till  you  have  effected  it.  If  per- 
sons mthout  brains  can  accomplish  this,  why  cannot  you  ?  I 
would  recommend  that  the  housekeeper  acquire  the  practice  as 
well  as  the  theory  of  bread-making.  In  this  way,  she  will  be 
able  to  give  more  exact  directions  to  her  cook  and  to  more 
readily  detect  and  rectify  any  blemish  in  the  bread.  Besides,  if 
circumstances  should  throw  her  out  of  a  cook  for  a  short  time, 
she  is  then  prepared  for  the  emergency.  In  this  country 
fortunes  are  so  rapidly  made  and  lost,  the  vicissitudes  of  life 
are  so  sudden,  that  we  know  not  what  a  day  may  bring  forth. 
It  is  not  uncommon  to  see  elegant  and  i-efined  women  brought 
suddenly  face  to  face  with  emergencies  which  their  practical 
knowledge  of  household  economy  and  their  brave  hearts  enable 
them  to  firmly  meet  and  overcome. 

To  return  to  the  bread  question,  however.  Good  flour  is  an 
indispensable  requisite  to  good  bread.     Flour,  whether  old  or 


20  BREAD. 

new,  should  always  be  sunned  and  aired  before  being  used.  In 
the  morning,  get  out  the  flour  to  be  made  up  at  night  for  next 
morning's  breakfast.  Sift  it  in  a  tray  and  put  it  out  in  the  sun, 
or,  if  the  day  is  damp,  set  it  near  the  kitchen  fire.  Only  experi 
ence  will  enable  you  to  be  a  good  judge  of  flour.  One  test  is  to 
rub  the  dry  flour  between  your  fingers,  and  if  the  grains  feel 
round,  it  is  a  sign  that  the  flour  is  good.  If  after  trying  a 
barrel  of  flour  twice,  you  find  it  becomes  wet  and  sticky,  after 
being  made  up  of  the  proper  consistency,  you  had  better  then 
return  it  to  your  grocer. 

The  best  flour  is  worthless  without  good  yeast.  Yeast  made 
up  in  the  morning  ought  to  be  fit  for  use  at  night.  It  shovild 
be  foamy  and  frothy,  with  a  scent  slightly  like  ammonia.  After 
closely  following  the  directions  for  yeast-making,  given  in  the 
subsequent  pages,  the  bread  will  be  apt  to  succeed,  if  the  flour 
employed  is  good. 

There  is  a  great  art  in  mixing  bread,  and  it  is  necessary  to 
observe  a  certain  rotation  in  ,the  process.  To  make  a  small 
quantity  of  bread,  first  sift  one  quart  of  flour ;  into  that  sift  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  next  rub  in  an  Irish  potato,  boiled  and 
mashed  fine,  then  add  a  j^iece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and 
next  a  half  teacup  of  yeast  in  which  three  teaspooufuls  of 
white  sugar  have  been  stirred.  (Under  no  circumstances  use. 
soda  or  saleratus  in  your  light  dough.)  Then  make  into  a  soft 
dough  with  cold  watei'  in  summer,  and  lukewarm  in  winter. 
Knead  without  intermission  for  half  an  houi-,  hy  the  clock 
Otherwise  five  minutes  appear  to  be  a  half  hour  when  bread  is 
being  kneaded  or  beaten.  Then  place  it  in  a  stone  crock,  greased 
with  lard  at  the  bottom,  and  set  it  to  rise.  In  summer,  apply  no 
artificial  heat  to  it,  but  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  As  bread  rises 
much  more  quickly  in  summer  than  in  winter,  you  must  make 
allowance  for  this  difierence,  during  the  respective;  seasons. 
The  whole  process,  including  both  the  first  and  second  rising,  may 
be  accomplished  in  seven  or  eight  hours  in  summer,  though  this 
will  bo  regulated  partly  by  the  flour,  as  some  kinds  of  flour  rise 


BKKAD.  21 

much  more  quickly  thau  others.  In  summer  you  may  make  it 
up  at  nine  o'clock  p.m.,  for  an  eight  o'clock  bi-eakfast  next 
morning,  but  in  winter,  make  it  up  at  seven  p.m.,  and  then  set  it 
on  a  shelf  under  which  a  lighted  coal-oil  lamp  is  placed.  If  you 
can  have  a  three-cornei-ed  shelf  of  slate  or  sheet-iron,  placed  in  a 
corner  of  the  kitchen,  just  above  the  bread  block,  it  will  be  all 
the  better,  though  a  common  wooden  shelf,  made  very  thin,  will 
answer,  where  you  cannot  get  the  other.  The  coal-oil  lamp 
underneath  without  running  the  risk  of  burning  the  shelf  (it 
wooden),  will  keep  the  bread  gently  heated  all  night,  and  will 
answer  the  double  purpose  of  keeping  a  light  burning,  whicli 
most  persons  like  to  do  at  night,  and  which  they  can  do  with 
scarcely  any  expense,  by  using  a  coal-oil  lamp. 

Never  knead  bread  a  second  time  in  the  morning,  as  this 
ruins  it.  Handle  lightly  as  possible,  make  into  the  desired 
shapes  and  put  into  the  moulds  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked. 
Grease  your  hands  before  doing  this,  so  as  to  grease  the  loaf  or 
each  roll  as  you  put  it  in,  or  else  dip  a  feather  in  lard  and  pass 
lightly  over  the  bread  just  before  putting  it  in  the  oven  to 
bake.  Let  it  be  a  little  warmer  during  the  second  rise  than 
during  the  first.  Always  shape  and  put  in  the  moulds  two 
hours  before  breakfast.  If  hot  bread  is  desired  for  dinner,  re- 
serve part  of  the  breakfast  dough,  keeping  it  in  the  kitchen  in 
winter,  and  in  the  refrigerator  in  summer  till  two  hours  before 
dinner. 

In  baking,  set  the  bread  on  the  floor  of  the  stove  or  range, 
never  on  the  shelf.  Always  turn  up  the  damper  before  baking 
any  kind  of  bread.  As  you  set  the  bread  in  the  stove,  lay  a 
piece  of  stiff  writing  paper  over  it  to  keep  it  from  browning  be- 
fore heating  through.  Leave  the  door  ajar  a  few  minutes,  then 
remove  the  paper  and  shut  the  door.  When  the  top  of  the  loa^ 
is  a  light  amber  color,  put  back  the  paper  that  the  bread  may 
not  brown  too  much  while  thoroughly  baking.  Turn  the  mould 
around  so  that  eacli  part  may  be  exposed  to  equal  heat.  Have 
an  empty  baking-paix  on  the  shelf  above  the  bread,  to  nrevent  it 


22  BBEAD. 

from  blistering :  some  persons  fill  the  pan  with  water,  but  I  think 
this  is  a  bad  plan,  as  the  vapor  injures  the  bread.  When  thor- 
oughly done,  wrap  the  bread  a  few  moments  in  a  clean,  thick, 
oread  towel  and  send  to  the  table  with  a  napkin  over  it,  to  be 
kept  on  till  each  person  has  taken  his  seat  at  table, 

I  would  suggest  to  housekeepers  to  have  made  at  a  tinner's, 
a  sheet-iron  shape  for  bread,  eight  inches  long,  four  and  one-half 
Laches  wide,  and  five  and  one-half  deep.  This  is  somewhat  like 
a  brickbat  in  shape,  only  deeper,  and  is  very  desirable  for  bread 
that  is  to  be  cut  in  slices,  and  also  for  bread  that  is!  to  be  pulled 
off  in  slices.  A  quart  of  flour  will  make  eight  large  rolls,  six 
inches  high,  for  this  mould,  and  three  or  four  turnovers.  It  is  a 
nice  plan  after  making  out  the  eight  rolls  to  roll  them  with 
greased  hands  till  each  one  will  reach  across  the  pan  (four  and 
one-half  inches),  making  eight  sKces  of  bread  which  will  pull  of! 
beautifully  when  well  done,  and  thus  save  the  task  of  slicing 
with  a  knife.     It  requires  an  hour  to  bake  this  bread  properly. 

Do  not  constantly  make  bread  in  the  same  shapes :  each 
morning,  try  to  have  some  variation.  Plain  light  bread  dough 
may  be  made  into  loaves,  rolls,  twist,  turnovers,  light  biscuit, 
etc.,  and  these  changes  of  shape  make  a  pleasant  and  appetizing 
variety  in  the  appearance  of  the  table.  The  addition  of  three 
eggs  to  plain  light  bread  dough  will  enable  you  to  make  French 
rolls,  muffins,  or  Sally-Lunn  of  it.  As  bread  is  far  more  appe- 
tizing, baked  in  pretty  shapes,  I  would  suggest  the  snow-ball 
shape  for  muffins  and  egg  bread.  Very  pretty  ii'on  shapes 
(eight  or  twelve  in  a  gro\ip,  j  oined  together)  may  be  procured 
from  almost  any  tinner. 

If  you  should  have  iadiflerent  flour  of  which  you  cannot  get 
rid,  bear  in  mind  that  it  will  sometimes  make  excellent  beaten 
biscuit  when  it  will  not  make  good  light  bread.  In  making 
beaten  buscuit,  always  put  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  piece  of  lard 
the  siize  of  an  egg,  and  a  teacup  of  milk  to  a  quart  of  flour, 
adding  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough  :  no  other 
iiiiiredieuts  are  admissible.      Make  the  dough  much  stitfer  than 


BKEAD.  23 

for  other  breads,  beat  steadily  a  half  hour,  by  the  clock.  Cut  with 
a  biscuit  cutter  or  shape  bj  haud,  beiug  careful  to  have  the 
shape  of  each  alike  and  perfect.  Make  them  not  quite  half  an 
inch  thick,  as  they  rise  in  baking.  Do  not  let  them  touch  each 
other  in  the  pan,  and  let  the  oven  be  very  hot.  It  is  well  not 
to  Lave  beaten  biscuit  and  light  bread  baked  at  the  same  time, 
as  they  require  difierent  degrees  of  heat.  When  two  kinds  of 
bread  are  required,  try  to  have  two  such  as  requii'e  the  same 
amount  of  heat.  Egg  bread  and  corn  muffins  require  the  same 
degree  of  heat  as  beaten  biscuit,  while  Sally-Luun  and  muffins 
need  the  same  as  light  bread. 

There  is  no  reason  why  the  poor  man  should  not  have  as  well 
pi-epared  and  palatable  food  as  the  wealthy,  for,  by  care  and 
pains,  the  finest  bread  may  be  made  of  the  simplest  materials, 
and  surely  the  loving  hands  of  the  poor  man's  wife  and  daughter 
will  take  as  much  pains  to  make  his  bread  nice  and  light  as  hire- 
lings will  do  for  the  wealthy.  The  mistake  generally  made  by  per- 
sons in  restricted  circumstances  is  to  make  too  great  a  use  of  soda 
bread,  which  is  not  only  less  wholesome,  but  is  more  expensive 
than  light  bread  or  beaten  biscuit,  as  it  requires  more  ingredi- 
ents. The  bread,  coffee  and  meat,  which  constitute  the  poor 
man's  breakfast,  properly  cooked,  furnish  a  meal  fit  for  a  prince. 

The  furnishing  of  the  kitchen  is  so  important  that  I  must  here 
say  a  few  words  on  the  subject.  First,  the  housekeeper  must 
have  a  good  stove  or  range,  and  it  is  well  for  her  to  have  the 
dealer  at  hand  when  it  is  put  up,  to  see  that  it  draws  well. 
Besides  the  utensils  furnished  with  the  range  or  stove,  she  must 
provide  every  kitchen  utensil  needed  in  cooking.  She  must 
have  a  kitchen  safe, — a  bread  block  in  the  corner,  furnished 
with  a  heavy  iron  beater  ;  trays,  sifters  (with  iron  rims)  steam- 
ers, colanders,  a  porcelain  preserving  kettle,  perforated  skim- 
mers and  sj)oons,  ladles,  long-handled  iron  forks  and  spoons, 
sharp  knives  and  skewers,  graters,  egg  beaters  (the  Dover  is 
the  best),  plenty  of  extra  bread  pans,  dippers  and  tins  of  every 
kind,  iron  moulds  for  egg  bread  and  muffins,  wash  pans,  tea 


24  BKEAD. 

towels,  bread  towels,  and  hand  towels,  plates,  knives,  forks  and 
spoons  for  use  of  the  servants,  a  pepper  box,  salt  box  and 
dredge  box  (filled),  a  match  safe,  and  last,  but  not  least,  a  clock. 
Try  as  far  as  possible  to  have  the  utensils  of  metal,  rather  than 
of  wood.  In  cases  where  you  cannot  have  cold  and  hot  water 
conveyed  into  the  kitchen,  always  keep  on  the  stove  a  kettle  cf 
hot  water,  with  a  clean  rag  in  it,  in  which  all  greasy  dishes  and 
kitchen  utensils  may  be  washed  before  being  rinsed  in  the  kitchen 
wash  pan.  Always  keep  your  cook  well  supplied  with  soap, 
washing  mops  and  coarse  linen  dish  rags.  I  have  noticed  that  if 
you  hem  the  latter,  servants  are  not  so  apt  to  throw  them  away. 
Insist  on  having  each  utensil  cleaned  immediately  after  being 
used.  Have  shelves  and  proper  places  to  put  each  article, 
hooks  to  hang  the  spoons  on,  etc.  If  you  cannot  have  an  oil- 
cloth on  your  kitchen  floor,  have  it  oiled  and  then  it  may  be 
easily  and  quickly  wiped  over  every  morning.  Once  a  week, 
have  the  kitchen  and  every  article  in  it  thoroughly  cleaned. 
First  clean  the  pipe  of  the  stove,  as  the  dust,  soot  and  ashes  fly 
over  the  kitchen  and  soil  everything.  Then  take  the  stove  to 
pieces,  as  far  as  practicable,  cleaning  each  part,  especially  the 
bottom,  as  neglect  of  this  will  prevent  the  bread  from  baking 
well  at  the  bottom.  After  the  stove  is  thoroughly  swept  out, — 
oven  and  all,  apply  stove  polish.  I  consider  "  Crumbs  of  Com- 
fort "  the  best  j)reparation  for  this  purpose.  It  comes  in  small 
pieces,  each  one  of  which  is  suflacient  to  clean  the  stove  once, 
and  is  thus  less  apt  to  be  wasted  or  thrown  away  by  servants  than 
stove  polish  that  comes  in  a  mass.  Next  remove  everything 
from  the  kitchen  safe  and  shelves,  which  must  be  scoui-ed  befor* 
replacing  the  utensils  belonging  to  them,  and  these  too  must 
first  be  scoured,  scalded,  and  wiped  dry.  Then  wash  the  win- 
dows, and  lastly  the  floor,  scouring  the  latter  unless  it  is  oiled, 
in  which  case,  have  it  merely  wiped  over. 

Never  let  a  servant  take  up  ashes  in  a  wooden  vessel.  Keep 
a  sheet-ii'on  pan  or  scuttle  for  the  purpose.  At  night,  always 
have  the  water  buckets  filled  with  water  and  also  the  kettles, 


HOUSEHOLD   MEASURES YEAST.  25 

setting  the  latter  on  the  stove  or  range,  in  case  of  sickness  or  anv 
emergency  during  the  night.  Have  kindling  wood  at  hand  also, 
so  that  a  fire  may  be  quickly  made,  if  needed. 

Sometimes  a  discoloration  is  observable  in  iron  kettles  or 
other  iron  vessels.  This  may  be  avoided  by  filling  them  with 
hay  before  using  them.  Pour  water  over  the  hay,  set  the  ves- 
sel on  the  fire  and  let  it  remain  till  the  water  boils.  After  this, 
scour  in  sand  and  ashes — then  wash  in  hot  soap-suds,  after 
7«rhich  process,  there  will  be  no  danger  of  discoloration. 

Household  Measures. 
Wheat  Flour.      1  lb.  is  1  quart. 
Indian  Meal.     1  lb.  2  oz.  are  1  quart. 
Butter,  when  soft,  1  lb.  is  I  pint. 
Loaf  sugar,  broken,  1  lb.  is  1  quart. 
White  sugar,  powdered,  1  lb.  1  oz.  are  1  quart. 
Best  brown  sugar,  1  lb.  2  oz.  are  1  quart. 
Ten  eggs  are  1  lb. 
Flour.     8  quarts  are  1  peck. 
"  4  pecks  are  1  bushel. 

16  large  tablespoonfuls  are  ^  pint. 
8  large  tablespoonfuls  are  1  gill. 
2  gills  are  ^  pint. 

A.  common  sized  tumbler  holds  ^  pint. 
A  tablespoonful  is  ^  oz. 
60  drops  are  equal  to  a  teaspoonful. 
4  teaspoonfuls  are  equal  to  1  tablespoonful. 

YEAST, 

Boil  one  quart  of  Irish  potatoes  in  three  quarts  of  water. 
When  done,  take  out  the  potatoes,  one  by  one,  on  a  fork,  peel 
and  mash  them  fine,  in  a  tray,  with  a  large  iron  spoon,  leaving 
the  boiling  water  on  the  stove  during  the  process.  Throw  in 
this  water  a  handful  of  hops,  which  must  scald,  not  boil,  as  it 
turns  the  tea  very  dark  to  let  the  hops  boil. 


26        IRISH    POTATO    YEAST YEAST   THAT   NEVER   FAILS- 

Add  to  the  niasl  ed  potatoes  a  heaping  teacupful  of  powdered 
white  sugar  and  half  a  teacupful  of  salt ;  then  slowly  stir  in  the 
strained  hop  tea,  so  that  there  will  be  no  lumps.  When  milk- 
warm  add  a  teacupful  of  yeast  and  pour  into  glass  fruit  jars,  or 
lai'ge,  clear  glass  bottles,  to  ferment,  being  careful  not  to  close 
them  tightly.  Set  in  a  warm  place  in  winter,  a  cool  one  in  sum- 
mer. In  six  hours  it  will  be  ready  for  use,  and  at  the  end  of 
that  time  the  jar  or  bottle  must  be  securely  closed.  Keep  in  a 
cold  room  in  winter,  and  in  the  refrigerator  in  summer.  This 
yeast  will  keep  two  weeks  in  winter  and  one  week  in  summer. 
Bread  made  from  it  is  always  sweet. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Irish  Potato  Yeast. 
1  quart  of  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
\  teacup  of  sugar. 
Put  two  cups  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  and  pour  over  it  three  cups 
of  strong  hop-water,  scalding  hot,  and  stir  it  briskly. 

Then  put  all  the  ingredients  in  ajar  together,  and  when  cool 
enough,  add  a  cup  of  yeast,  or  leaven. 
Set  it  by  the  fire  to  rise. 
It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  five  or  six  hours. — Mrs.  E, 

Another  Recipe  for  Yeast. 
12  large  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 
1  teacup  of  brown  sugar. 
1  teacup  of  salt. 
1  gallon  of  hop  tea. 
Mix  the  ingredients  well,  and  when  milk-warm,  add  a  pint  of 
yeast.     Set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.     Put  one  teacupful  of 
this  yeast,  when  risen,  to  two  quarts  of  flour. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Yea8t  that  Never  Fails. 
Boil  twelve  potatoes  in  four  quarts  of  water  till  reduced  to 
three  quarts. 


ALUM   YEAST LEAVKN.  27 

Then  take  out  and  mash  the  potatoes,  and  throw  into  the 
water  three  handfuls  of  hops. 

When  the  hops  have  boiled  to  a  good  tea,  strain  the  -water 
over  the  potatoes,  a  small  quantity  at  a  time,  mixing  them  well 
together. 

Add  one  teacup  of  brown  sugar. 

1  teacup  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger. 

When  milk-warm,  add  yeast  of  the  same  sort  to  make  it  rise. 

Put  it  in  bottles,  or  a  jug,  leaving  it  uncorked  for  a  day. 

Set  it  in  a  cool  place. 

Put  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  it  to  a  quart  of  flour,  and 
when  making  up,  boil  a  potato  and  mix  with  it. 

This  yeast  never  sours,  and  is  good  as  long  as  it  lasts. — Mrs. 
A.F. 

Alum  Yeast. 

On  one  jiint  of  flour  pour  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a 
thick  batter,  stirring  it  until  perfectly  smooth,  and  then  let  it 
stand  till  milk-warm. 

Then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  alum. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Half  a  teacup  of  yeast. 
After  it  ferments,  add  enough  meal  to  make  it  a  stifi"  dough. 
Let  it  stand  till  it  works,  and  then  spread  it  in  the  shade  to 
dry. 

To  a  quart  of  flour  put  a  tablespoonful  of  crumbs. — Mrs.  P. 

Leaven. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
2  eggs. 

1  potato. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. 


28  EXCELLENT   BREAD   FOR   BREAKFAST. 

Make  the  leaven  soon  after  breakfast  in  winter,  and  at  one 
o'clock  p.  M.  in  summer.  Let  it  be  of  the  consistency  of  bat- 
ter. Put  it  in  a  small  bucket,  in  a  warm  place,  to  rise  till  foxu 
o'clock  p.  M.  This  amount  of  leaven  is  sufficient  for  two  quarts 
of  flour.  If  for  loaf  bread,  leave  out  the  eggs  and  butter. — 
Mrs.  M. 

Excellent  Bread  for  Breakfast. 

1  quart  of  flour- 
Lard  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

1  small  Irish  potato,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  a  teacup  of  good  yeast,  into  which  put  a  tablespoonful 
of  white  sugar. 

Make  up  a  soft  dough  with  cold  water  in  summer  and  milk- 
warm  water  in  winter.  This  must  be  kneaded  for  thirty  min- 
utes, and  then  set  to  rise,  in  a  cool  place  in  summer,  and  a  warm 
one  in  winter;  must  never  be  kept  more  than  milk  warm. 

Two  hours  before  breakfast,  make  the  dougli  into  the  desired 
shapes,  handling  it  lightly,  without  kneading  it,  first  rubbing 
lard  over  the  hands,  and  taking  especial  care  to  grease  the 
bread  on  top.     Then  set  it  to  rise  again. 

Thirty  minutes  are  sufficient  for  baking  it,  imless  it  be  in  the 
form  of  a  loaf  or  rolls,  in  which  case,  it  must  be  baked  fifteen 
minutes  longer.  Excellent  muffins  may  be  made  by  the  above 
receipt,  adding  two  eggs  well  beaten,  so  that  from  the  same 
batch   of  dough  both   plain  bread  and  muffins  may  be  made. 

Iron  moulds  are  best  for  baking. 

For  those  who  prefer  warm  bread  for  dinner,  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  reserve  a  portion  of  the  breakfast  dough,  setting  it 
away  in  a  cool  place  till  two  hours  before  dinner,  then  make 
into  t\irnovers  or  twist,  set  it  to  rise  and  bake  it  for  dinner,  as 
for  breakfast.  Very  nice  on  a  cold  day,  and  greatly  preferable 
to  warmed-over  bread. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


family  bread — old  verginla  loaf  bread.  29 

Recipe  for  Family  Bread. 
2  quarts  of  flour. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter. 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

Enough  sponge  for  a  two- quart  loaf  of  bread. 
Mix  with  one  pint  of  sweet  milk. 
Make  into  I'olls  and  bake  with  very  Kttle  fire  under  the  oven. 
-Mrs.  A.  C. 

Loaf  Bread. 
First  make  a  batter  of  the  following  ingredients. 
1  pint  of  tluur. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
A  cup  of  water. 
A  cup  of  good  yeast. 
Set  this  to  rise  and  when  risen  work  in  two  pints  of  flour, 
or,  if  the  batter  is  not  sufficient  to  work  up   this  flour,  add  a 
little  water. 

Work  it  smoothly  and  set  it  to  rise. 

When  risen,  add  a  small  piece  of  lard,  work  it  well  again, 
let  it  stand  an  hour  and  then  bake  it  slowly. — Mrs.  P.   IK 

Old  Viuginia  Loaf  Bread. 
Sponge  for  the  same. 

Boil  one  large  Irish  potato,  until  well  done,  then  peel  and 
mash  it  fine,  adding  a  little  cold  water  to  soften  it.  Stir 
into  it 

1  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  of  sweet  lard. 
Then  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  good  hop  yeast. 
Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  then  put   the  sponge  in  a 
mug  with  a  close-fitting  top,  and  let  it  stand  several  hours  to 
rise. 

Sift  into  the  tray  three  pints  of  the  best  family  flour,  to  which 


30  ANOTHEK   KECIPE   FOK   LOAF   BKEAD. 

add  a  teaspoonfiil  of  salt.  Then  pour  in  the  sponge  and  add 
enough  cold  water  to  the  flour  to  work  it  up  into  a  rather  stiff" 
dough.  Knead  it  till  the  dough  is  smooth,  then  let  it  stand  all 
night  to  rise.  Work  it  over  in  the  morning,  using  just  enough 
flour  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  hands.  Allow  it  one  hour 
to  rise  before  baking  and  one  hour  to  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Then  it  will  be  thoroughly  done  and  well  dried. 

Use  a  little  lard  on  the  hands  when  making  out  the  loaf,  as 
it  keeps  the  crust  from  being  too  hard. — Mrs.  S. 

Another  Recipe  for  Loaf  IBread. 

Good  Hour  is  the  fii'st  requisite,  and  next,  good  yeast  and 
sufficient  kneading. 

For  a  loaf  of  ordinary  size,  use 
2  lbs.  of  flour. 
Lard  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg. 
A  saltsjjoonful  of  salt. 
2  gUls  of  yeast. 

Mix  up  these  ingredients  into  a  moderately  stifl"  dough,  using 
for  the  purpose,  from  three  gills  to  a  pint  of  water.  Some  flour 
being  more  adhesive  than  others,  you  have  to  learn  by  experi- 
ence the  exact  amount  of  water  required. 

Knead  the  dough  till  perfectly  smooth,  then  set  it  to  rise,  in 
a  cool  place,  in  summer,  but  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draughts, 
in  winter.  In  the  latter  season  it  is  better  to  keep  a  blanket 
wrapped  around  it. 

This  amount  of  flour  will  rise  to  the  top  of  a  gallon  and  a 
half  jar  or  bucket.  If  it  is  ready  before  time,  stir  it  down  and 
set  it  in  a  cooler  place. 

When  you  put  it  in  the  baking-pan  (in  which  it  will  be  in 
an  inch  of  the  top,  if  the  pan  be  of  a  suitable  size  for  the 
amount  of  flour)  cover  it  well,  or  a  hard  crust  will  form  from 
the  effects  of  the  atmosphere.  Keep  it  a  little  warmer  during 
the  second  rise  than  during  the  first.  When  ready  for  baking, 
set  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  it  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  with 


LIGHT   BREAD — FBJflNCH    liOLLS.  31 

a  moderate  fire,  evenly  kept  up.     It  will  then  come  out  with- 
out sticking,  if  the  pans  are  well  cared  iox: — Mrs.  J'.  J.  A. 

Light  Bkead. 
2  quarts  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Half  a  teacup  of  yeast. 
One  egg,  well  beaten. 
1  pint  of  water. 
Sift  the  flour  and  divide  it  into  three  parts.     Mix  one  third 
in  the  batter,  one  third  in  the  jar  to   rise  in,  and  pour  the 
other  third  over  the  batter.     Let  it  stand  two  hours  and  then 
work  it  well,  adding  a  small  piece  of  lard  before  baking. — Mrs. 
Br.  S. 
( 

Recipe  for  Hot  Rolls  or  Cold  Loaf  Bread. 
Mix  the  following  ingredients. 
Four  pints  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  fresh  milk. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten, 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard. 
1  large  tablespoonful  of  hop  yeast. 
Set  it  to  rise  at  eleven  o'clock  in  the  morning,  for  early  tea. 
Make  into  rolls  at  five  o'clock  p.  M.,  and  bake  as  soon  as  risen. 
In  cool  weather,  set  before  the  fire,  both  before  and  after  mak- 
ing it  into  rolls. — Mrs.  JS. 

French  Rolls. 
1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  eggs. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  lard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 


32  FKENOH  KOLLS VELVET  KOLLS. 

Work  and  knead  it  well  at  night,  and  in  the  mcirning  work 
it  well  again,  make  it  into  rolls,  put  them  in  the  oven  to  take  a 
second  rise,  and  when  risen,  bake  them. — Mrs.  Col.  W. 

A.nother  Recipe  for  French  Holls. 

3  pints  of  flour. 
1  gill  of  yeast. 
1  egg  (beaten  up). 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Mix  up  with  milk  and  warm  water  and  set  to  rise. — Mrs. 
Dr.E. 

Another  Recipe  for  French  Rolls  or  Twist. 

1  quart  of  lukewarm  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  teacup  of  yeast. 

Enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
When  very  light,  add  one  beaten  egg  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  butter,  and  knead  in  the  flour  till  stiff"  enough  to  roll.  Let 
it  rise  a  second  time,  and,  when  very  light,  roll  out,  cut  in 
strips  and  braid  it.  Bake  thirty  minutes,  on  buttered  tins. — 
Mrs.  S. 

Velvet  Rolls. 

Three  pints  of  flour. 
Two  eggs. 

One  teacup  of  sweet  milk. 
One  teacup  of  yeast. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  the  same  of  butter. 
Mix  well  and  beat  the  dough  till  it  blisters. 
Let  it  rise,  work  in  a  small  quantity  of  flour,  beat  as  before 
and  make  into  rolls.     After  the  second  rising,  bake  quickly. — 
Mrs.  Br.  S. 


\ 

POOKBTBOOK    KOLLS TURNOVBBS.  33 

POCKETBOOK   ROLLS. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  teapoonfuls  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
2  eggs. 

Mix  up  these  ingredients  with  warm  water,  making  up  the 
dough  at  ten  A.  M.  in  summer  and  eight  A.  M.  in  winter.  Put 
in  half  the  lard  when  it  is  first  worked  up,  and  at  the  second 
working  put  in  the  rest  of  the  lard  and  a  little  more  flour. 

Roll  out  the  dough  in  strips  as  long  and  wide  as  your  hand, 
spread  with  butter  and  roll  up  like  a  pocketbook.  Put  them 
in  buttered  tins,  and,  when  they  are  light,  bake  them  a  light 
brown— Jfr*.  L.  C.  G. 

Turnovers. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  large  Irish  potato,  boiled  and  mashed. 

3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
1  teacup  of  milk. 

Rub  the  potato  in  the  flour,  then  the  lard  and  other  ingre- 
dients, making  it  into  a  soft  dough.  Then  set  it  to  rise,  at 
night  if  you  wish  it  for  breakfast  next  morning.  Early  in  the 
morning,  take  off  a  piece  of  dough,  the  size  of  a  biscuit,  roll  it 
out,  about  five  inches  long,  then  turn  it  about  half  over.  When 
you  have  made  up  all  the  dough,  in  shapes  like  this,  place  them 
on  a  dish  or  board,  cover  with  a  napkin  and  set  aside  for  a 
second  rising.  When  ready  to  bake,  dip  a  feather  in  water  and 
pass  over  them  to  prevent  the  crust  being  too  hard.  If  the 
dough  should  be  sour,  knead  in  a  little  soda,  which  will  correct 
it— Jfrs.  A.  G. 
2* 


34  TUKNOVEES — SALLYLUNN. 

■  Another  Mecipe  for   Turnovers. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 
Set  it  to  rise,  then  make  them  up  round  and  flat,  greasing 
the  upper  side  with  lard  and  turning  over   one   side.     When 
well  risen  the  second  time,  bake — Mrs.  I. 

Twist. 
From  the  dough  of  loaf  bread  or  French  rolls,  reserve  enough 
to  make  two  long  strips  or  rolls,  say,  fifteen  inches  long  and 
one  inch  in  diameter.  Kub  lard  well  between  the  hands  before 
handling  and  shaping  these  strips.  Pinch  the  two  ends  so  as  to 
make  them  stick  together.  Twist  them,  pressing  the  other  ends 
together  to  prevent  unrolling. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Pockets. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  cup  of  butter. 
1  cup  of  yeast. 

1  large  Irish  potato,  boiled  and  mashed  into  the  flour. 
Add  the  yeast,  butter  and  eggs,  after  mashing  the  potato  in 
the  flour.     Knead  all  together  and  set  to  rise. 

Sally-Lunn. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar. 

Rub  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard  in  equal 

Darts,  then  rub  iu  an  Irish  potato,  mashed  fina 
Half  a  teacup  of  yeast. 
3  eggs  well  beaten. 
Make  up  the  dough  to  the  consistency  of  light  bread  dough, 


8ALLY-LUNN — ^EEOIPE  FOE  THE   SAME.  35 

with  warm  water  in  winter,  and  cold  iu  summer.  Knead  half 
an  hour.  When  it  has  risen  light,  handle  lightly,  put  into  a  cake- 
juould  and  bake  witliout  a  second  kneading. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Another  Mecipe  for  Sally-Lunn. 

1  quai't  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  yeast, 
4  eggs  well  beaten. 

2  oz.  of  butter  or  lard. 
1  pint  of  milk. 

Set  it  to  rise  in  the  pan  in  whicli  it  is  to  be  baked. — Mrs. 

A.  a 

Another  Hecipe  for  Sally-Lunn. 

3  pints  of  flour. 

1  tables^joonful  of  butter  and  the  same  of  lard. 

3  eggs. 

1  light  teacup  of  yeast. 

2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Use  as  much  milk  in  mixing  as  will  make  a  soft  dough. 
Work  this  well,  as  it  gets  only  one  working.  Then  grease  it, 
put  it  in  a  greased  pan,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Bake 
about  an  hour. — Mrs.  Dr.   T. 

Hecipe  for  the  Same. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
3  eggs. 

1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Butter  the  si^e  of  an  egg. 
Make  up  with  new  milk  into  a  tolerably  stiff"  batter.     Set 
it  to  rise  and  when  risen  pour  into  a  mould  and  set  to  rise  again, 
as  light  bread.     Bake  quickly. — Mrs.  L. 


86         quick  sali.y-lunn — salt  sulphuk  muffinb. 

Quick  Sally-Lunn. 

1  quart  of  floui*. 
Half  cup  of  butter, 

2  eggs. 

2  cups  of  milk. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 

Bake  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

MUFFIKS. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

6  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. — Jifrs.  Dr.  .E. 

Sweet  Spring  Muffins. 
Sift  three  good  pints  of  flour.  Beat  well  six  eggs,  leaving 
out  one  and  a  half  of  the  whites.  Then  beat  into  them  as  much 
flour  as  they  ■will  take  in  ;  then  add  milk  and  flour  alternately 
(beating  all  the  while)  till  all  the  flour  is  used.  Add  five  table- 
spoonfuls of  yeast,  and  when  this  batter  is  well  beaten,  stir  into 
it  two  ounces  of  melted  butter,  cooled  but  liquid.  The  batter 
must  be  as  stifl'  as  can  be  beaten  with  an  iron  spoon.  Bake  in 
a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  L. 

Salt  Sulphur  Mufpins.- 
Work  together,  about  twelve  o'clock  in  the  day,  one  pint  of 
yeast,  half  a  pint  of  water,  six  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  just  stiflf  enough  not  to  stick  to  the 
fingers.  After  the  dough  is  risen,  make  it  out  in  biscuit  and 
allow  half  an  hour  or  more  for  them  to  rise  before  baking. — 
Mrs.  L. 


I 


8tjpeki0r  miiffins — muffins.  37 

Superior  Muffins. 
1  quart  of  flonr. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar. 
Rub  in  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  Irish  potato,  mashed  free  from  lumps. 
Pour  in  three  well  beaten  eggs  and  a  half  teacup  of  yeast. 
Make  into  a  soft  dough  with  warm  water  in  winter  and  cold  in 
summer.     Knead   well   for  half  an  hour.      Set   to  rise  where   it 
will  be  milk-warm,  in  winter,  and  cool  in  summer.     If  wanted 
for  an  eight  o'clock  winter  breakfast,  make  up  at  eight  o'clock 
the  night  before.     At  six  o'clock  in  the  morning,  make  out  into 
ro\ind  balls  (without  kneading  again),  and  drop  into  snow-ball 
moulds  that  have  been  well  greased.     Take  care  also  to  grease 
the  hands  and  pass  them  over  the  tops  of  the  muffins.     Set  them 
in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours  and  then'bake. 

These  are  the  best  muffins  I  ever  ate. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Parker  House  Muffins. 
Boil  one  quart  of  milk.  When  nearly  cool  stir  in  one  quart 
sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  half  cup  of  yeast.  Then 
stir  in  three  well  beaten  eggs.  Let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  in 
winter  and  a  cool  one  in  summer,  eight  or  ten  hovrs.  When 
risen  light,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter  and  bake  in 
iron  muffin  moulds. — Mrs.  TF!  3.  M. 

Muffins. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  pint  milk. 
3  eggs. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard. 
1         «  "  butter. 

^  Clip  yeast. 
1  teaspoonful  sugar. 
Mix  and  beat  till  perfectly  light. — Mrs.  W.  S. 


38  MUFFINS — CREAM   MUFFINS. 

Another  Recipe  for  Muffins. 
One  quart   of  milk,  one  dozen  eggs,  one  pound  of  butter. 
Beat  the  butter  and  yalks  together.     Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth.     Make  the   batter   the  consistency  of  pound    cake,   and 
bake  in  snow-ball  cups  as  soon  as  made. — Mrs.  C.   W.  B. 

Muffin  Bread. 

3  pints  of  flour. 

4  eggs. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  gill  of  yeast. 
A  little  salt. 
Make  up  at  night.     This  makes  two  loaves. — Mrs.  A  F. 

Soda  Muffins. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

2  eggs. 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartai*. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Add  enough  buttermilk  to  make  a  stiflf  batter,  and  bake 
immediately. 

White  Egg  Muffins. 
1  pint  of  flour. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Add  enough  milk  to  make  it  into  a  thin  batter.     Put  in  a 
little  salt.     Very  nice. — Mrs.  C.  C.  McP. 

Cream  Muffins. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs  separately.  When 
well  beaten,  mix  them  and  add  to  them  a  half  pint  of  cream,  a 
lump  of  melted  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg.     Then  mix  in 


MISCELLANEOUS   YEAST   BREADS OLD   MAIDS.  39 

slowly  one  pint  of  flour  and  bake  it  quickly,  in  small  tins,  with 
out  any  further  beating.  A  delicious  breakfast  bread. — Mrs. 
Mc  G.,  Ala. 

Jfiscellaneous  Yeast  Hreads. 

BUNNS. 

1  pint  of  potato  yeast. 
4  ounces  of  sugar. 
4  ounces  of  butter. 

1  egg  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  soft  dough. 
Make  as  Sally-Lunn  and  bake  in  rolls. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Cottage  Loaf. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 

2  eggs,  and  a  little  salt. 

Make  up  at  night  for  breakfast,  mixing  it  with  water.      Bake 
in  a  quart  tin  pan. — Mrs.  A.  S. 

Potato  Bread. 

1  quart  of  flour. 
4  eggs. 

4  good  sized  Irish   potatoes,  boiled,   mashed   and   strained 
through  a  colander. 

2  ounces  of  butter. 

As  much  yeast  as  is  needed  to  make  it  rise. 
To  be  made  up  with  water,  not  so  stiflf  as  light  bread  dough. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  or  rolls. — Mrs.  tT.  S.  F. 

Old  Maids. 
Made  at  night  like  common  light  bread.     Roll  out  the  size 
of  saucers  in  the  morning,  for   the  second  rising.     Bake   on 
a  hoe,  turning  over  as  a  hoe  cake.     Then  toast  the  sides,  in 


40  GBAHAM    BREAD — ^BROWN   BREAD — KU8K8. 

front   of    a   fire.       A   very  nice,    old-fashioned    bread. — Mn. 
Dr.  E. 

Graham  Bread. 
The  night  before  baking,  make  a  sponge  of  white  flour,  using 
half  new  milk  and  half  cold  water,  with  a  teacup  two  thirds 
full  of  home-made  yeast.  In  the  morning,  put  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  this  sponge  in  a  separate  dish,  adding  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  molasses,  a  little  milk  or  water,  and  stirring  in  as  m"ich 
Graham  flour  as  you  can  with  a  spoon.  Then  let  it  rise  and 
mould  the  same  as  white  bread. 

Brown  Bread. 
One  quart  of  light  bread  sponge,  one-half  teacup  of  molasses. 
Stir  into  the  above,  with  a  large  spoon,  unbolted  wheat  meal, 
until  it  is  a  stiff  dough.  Grease  a  deep  pan,  put  the  mixture 
in ;  when  light,  put  the  pan  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  (the 
bread  well  covered),  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Then  put  in 
the  oven  and  bake  until  done.  Especially  good  for  dyspeptics. 
— Mrs.  D.  Gone. 

Box  Bread. 
One  quart  of  flour,  one  teacup  of  yeast,  one  teacup  of  melted 
lard  or  butter,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  rise  as 
light  bi'ead,  and,  when  risen,  make  it  into  square  rolls,  without 
working  it  a  second  time.  Let  it  rise  again  and  then  bake  it. 
—Mrs.  R.  E.  W. 

Rusks. 
1  cup  of  yeast. 
1  cup  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  cream. 
4  eggs. 
Enough  flour  to  make  a  batter,  mixed  with  the  other  ingredi- 
ents.    Let  it  rise;  then  add  enough  flour  to  make  rolls,  and 


EGG   BUSKS — GERMAN   RUSKS — FRENCH   BISCUIT.  41 

also  add  a  teacup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed.     Bake  as  rolls  after 
they  have  risen. — Mrs.  S. 

Egg  Rusks. 
Melt  three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  milk.  Beat  six 
eggs  into  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Mix  these  ingredi- 
ents with  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter,  adding  a  gill  of  yeast 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When  light,  add  flour  to  make 
a  dough  stifl'  enough  to  mould.  Make  into  small  cakes  and  let 
them  rise  in  a  warm  place  while  the  oven  is  heating. — Mrs. 
Dr.  S. 

German  Rusks. 

1  quart  of  flour. 
2"eggs. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

2  cups  of  lard  and  butter  mixed. 

2  cups  of  potato  yeast. 

2  cups  of  milk. 

1  nutmeg. 
Put  all  the  ingredients  in  the  middle  of  the  flour,  work  well 
together  and  set  to  rise  as  loaf  bread.     Wash   the  rolls  over 
with  butter  and  sugar. — Mrs.  C.  L.  T. 

French  Biscuit. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Rub  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
Pour  in  half  a  teacup   of  yeast,  two  well   beaten  eggs,  and 
enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.     Knead  half  an   hour. 
Then  set  to  rise ;  when  well  risen,  roll  out,  without  kneading 
again.      Handle  lightly,  first  greasing  the   hands   with  butter. 
Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  greasing  one  biscuit  and  j)lacing  an- 
other on   it.     Set  to   rise  a  second  time  before  baking. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 


42  vaotty  buiscuit ckeam  bi6cuit. 

Vanity  Bisouit. 

One  pint  of  flour,  one  of  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  well  together 
Bake  in  cups. — Miss  I). 

Beaten  Biscuit. 
One  quart  of  flour,  lard  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Make  into  a  moderately  stifl"  dough  with 
sweet  milk.  Beat  for  half  an  hour.  Make  out  with  the  hand 
or  cut  with  the  biscuit  cutter.  Stick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven,  yet  not  sufficiently  hot  to  blister  the  biscuit. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

Another  Hecipe  for  Seaten  JBiscuit. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  the  same  of  lard. 
Mix   up  these  ingredients   with  skimmed  milk,  work  them 
well  together  and  beat  fifteen  minutes.     Stick  with  a  fork  and 
bake  quickly. — Mrs.  E.  B. 

Soda  Biscuit. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  the  same  of  soda, 
and  the  same  of  salt.  Sift  these  together,  then  rub  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  and  make  up  the  dough  with  milk  and  water. 
—Mrs.  E.  B. 

Cream  Biscuit. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

Four  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
fine  table  salt,  which  must  be  well  diflused  through  the  flour. 
Then  add  two  ounces  of  fresh,  good  butter.  Take  one  pint  of 
pure,  sweet  cream,  put  iu  it  two  even  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  and 
then  add  it  to  the  flour.     The  dough  ought  to  be  very  soft  j  but 


EXCELLENT   LIGHT    BISCUIT— SODA    CKACKEE8.  43 

should  it  be  too  soft,  add  a  little  more  flour.  Work  it  well^ 
roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  five  minutes. — if/?'S.  fT.  JB[.  F. 

Excellent  Light  Biscuit. 
Boil  four  large  Irish  potatoes.  While  hot,  mash  them  with 
a  piece  of  lard  the  size  of  an  egg.  Add  one  teacup  of  milk 
and  one  of  yeast.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  good  batter 
and  set  it  to  rise.  It  will  take  about  two  quarts  of  flour. 
When  light,  make  up  the  dough.  You  generally  have  to  add 
more  water  oi  milk.  Roll  thick,  let  them  rise  slowly,  but 
bake  them  quickly. — Mrs.  M.  G.  IT. 

Light  Biscuit. 

Two  quarts  flour,  one  large  tablespoonful  lard,  and  the 
same  of  butter.  Salt  to  the  taste.  One  teaspoonful  soda  and 
enough  buttermilk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Bake  quickly. — ]\frs. 
Dr.  S. 

Thick  Biscuit. 

One  quart  flour,  one  large  tablespoonful  lard  and  butter  mixed, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  enough  morning's  milk  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Work  well  and  beat  with  a  rolling-pin  or  iron  pestle,  at 
least  half  an  hour.  Make  into  small  biscuit  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     This  will  make  sixteen  biscuit. — 3Its.  M.  A..  P. 

Thin  Biscuit  or  Crackers. 
One  quart  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  lard  and  butter  mixed,  a 
Kttle  salt.      Make  a  stiff  paste  with  water.     Beat  the  dough 
till    it  blisters.      Koll   thin,   stick,  and  bake    quickly.— Jl/ra 

A.  G. 

Soda  Crackers. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lai'd  and  butter  mixed. 

1  egg  ;   a  little  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  sifted  into  the  flour. 


44  HUNTSVILLE   CRACKEKS NUn's   PUFFS. 

Make  a  stiff  paste   with   buttermilk,   beat  until  light,  roll 
tolerably  thin,  cut  in  squares,  prick,  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs. 

A.  a 

HuNTSviLLE  Crackers. 
Take  a  lump  of  risen  dough,  as  large  as  yov  r  double  fist,  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  loaf  sugar,  beaten  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg.  Mix  with  the  dough  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's 
egg  and  an  equal  quantity  of  lard,  a  tablespoonful  of  soda,  dis- 
solved in  a  cup  of  cream.  Beat  a  long  time,  stii'riug  in  flour 
all  the  while,  till  quite  stiff.  Roll  out,  cut  in  square  cakes  and 
bake  in  a  brisk  oven. — Miss  JE.  P. 

Water  Crackers. 

1  lb.  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  same  of  soda. 
1  tablespoonful  of  lard. 
Make  up    with   sweet  milk,  beat  well,  roll   thin,  and    bake 
quickly. 

Wafers. 

1  quart  flour. 

Yolk  of  one  egg. 

1  heaping  tables})Oonful  lard. 

A  little  salt. 
Mix  with  milk,  as  stifi"  as  you  would  for  biscuit.     Beat  well 
with  the  biscuit  beater,  roll  out  thin  and  put  in  the  wafer  irons. 
Put  in  the  fire  and  bake. — Mrs.  W.  ^S. 

Nun's  Puffs. 
Boil  one  pint  of  milk  with  half  a  pound  of  butter.  Stir  them 
into  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  and  let  them  cool. 
Then  add  nine  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  to  be  beaten  separately, 
and  whites  to  be  added  last.  Fill  cups  or  tins  half  full  and 
bake.  When  done,  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  while  he  t.  Very 
nice  for  tea. — Mrs.  A.  D. 


MISOEJuLANEOUS   FLOUR   BREADS.  45 

Miscellaneous  Flour  JBreads. 
Lapland  Bread, 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  quart  of  cream. 
1  teaspoon  ful  of  salt. 
Twelve  eggs  (whites  aud  yolks   beaten  separately  and  very 
light).     Put  the  whites  in  the  batter  the  last  thing,  beat  very 
light,  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  in  small  tins,  which  must  be  per- 
fectly dry  and  sprinkled  with  a  little  flour  before  being  greased. 
A  delicious  bread. — Mrs.  Dr.  J. 

A  JPlainer  Recipe  for  the  /Same. 
1  pint  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

2  eggs. 

Beat   the  eggs  well  and  stir  in  the  flour  and  milk.     Bake  in 
little  pans. 

New  Bread. 
1  quart  of  flour. 

1  dessertspoonful  of  lard  and  the  same  of  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Work  the   lard  and  butter  in  the  flour,  and  sprinkle  in  the 
soda,  with  salt  to  taste.     Mix  with  buttermilk  or  clabber  to  the 
consistency  of  biscuit.     Roll  it  round  to  the  size  of  a  teaplate. 
Made  just  before  eating. — Mrs.  F,: 

Henrietta  Bread. 
1  pint  of  flour, 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard  or  butter. 
Make  the  consistency  of  poor  man's  pudding.     Bake  in  cups 
—Mrs.  K. 


46  jenny  lind  bread breakfast  puff8. 

Jenny  Lind  Bread. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

A  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

2  teacups  of  milk. 
4  eggs. 

1^  teaspoonfuls  of  soda. 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  L. 

Lunch  Bread. 

•     1  pint  of  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar 
2  eggs. 

1  cup  of  milk  and  a  little  salt. 
Bake  in   a  flat  pan  in  a  quick  oven.     To  be  eaten  hot  with 
hntiev.— Mrs.  I.  H. 

Breakfast  Puffs. 

One  tumbler  of  flour,  one  tumbler  of  milk,  and  one  egg. 
Beat  the  yolk  and  milk  together,  then  add  the  flour,  and  lastly 
the  white  of  the  egg.  Bake  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — 
Mrs.I.  H. 

Another  Recipe  for  the  Same. 

Take  two  eggs  well  beaten  and  stir  into  a  pint  of  milk ;  add 
a  little  salt,  two  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  and  one-half 
pints  of  flour.  Stir  thoroughly,  so  as  to  avoid  lumps.  Grease 
the  cups  in  which  you  pour  the  batter,  and  fill  them  two-thirds 
fuU. 


salt-ki8bn  bread waffles.  47 

Salt-Risen  Bread. 
Make  into  a  thin  batter : 

1  pint  of  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  of  corn  meal. 
Half-teaspoonful  salt. 
Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.     After  it  has  risen,  pour  into  it 
two  quarts  of  flour,  with   sufficient  warm  water  to  make  up  a 
loaf  of  bread.     Work  it  well,  set  it  to  rise  again,  and  when 
i-isen  sufficiently,  bake  it. — Mrs.  T.  L.  J'. 

Another  Medpefor  the  Same, 
Into  a  pitcher,  put  one  teacup  of  milk  fresh  from  the  cow, 
uwo  teacups  of  boiling  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Into  this  stii-  thoroughly  a  little  less  than  a 
quart  of  flour.  Set  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  moderately  warm 
water  and  keep  it  at  a  uniform  temperature.  Keep  a  towel 
fastened  over  the  mouth  of  the  pitcher.  Set  the  kettle  in  front 
of  the  fire  to  keep  the  water  warm.  Let  it  stand  three  hours, 
then  beat  it  uji  well,  after  Avhich  do  not  interrujjt  it.  If  in  two 
hours  it  does  not  begin  to  rise,  put  in  a  large  slice  of  apple. 
As  soon  as  it  rises  sufficiently,  have  ready  two  quarts  of  flour, 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  and  more  salt,  and  make  up  immedi- 
ately. Should  there  not  be  yeast  enough,  use  warm  water. 
Put  into  an  oven  and  set  before  a  slow  tire  to  rise,  after  which 
bake  slowly.  The  yeast  must  be  made  up  at  seven  o'clock  in 
the  morning. — Miss  N.   C.  A. 

Waffles. 
1  pint  milk. 
3  tablespoonfuls  flovir. 
1  tablespoonful  corn  meal. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
1  light  teaspoonful  salt. 
Three  eggs,   beaten  separately,  the  whites  added  last.     To 
have  good  waffles,  the  batter  must  be  made  thin.     Add  another 


4:8  WAFFLES — SODA    WAFFLES. 

egg  and  a  teacup  of  boiled  rice  to  the  above  ingredients,  if  you 
wish  to  make  rice  waffles, — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Waffles. 
1  quart  of  flour. 

1  quart  of  sour  cream  (or  buttermilk,  if  you  have  no  cream). 
6  eggs. 

1^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Half  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard,  poured  in  after  the  bat- 
ter is  mixed. 
This   may   be    baked    as   flannel    cakes   or   muffins. — Mrs. 
H.B. 

Another  Recipe  for  Waffles. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

6  eggs  beaten  very  light. 
1^  pint  of  new  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

3  tablespooufuls  of  yeast. 

Set  it  to  rise  at  night,  and  stir  with  a  spoon,  in  the  morn- 
ing, just  before  baking.  When  you  want  them  for  tea,  make 
them  up  in  the  morning,  in  winter,  or  directly  after  dinner,  in 
summer. — Mrs.  Dr.  J. 

Soda  Waffles. 
1  pint  of  flour. 
1  pint  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  in  the  flour. 
2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Beat  up  and  bake  quickly. 

Another  Hecipe  for  Waffles. 
1  quart  of  flour,  with  a  kitchen-spoonful  of  corn  meal  added. 


SUI'ERIOR   RICE    WAFFLES  —  MUSH    WAFFLES.  49 

3  eggs  beaten  separately. 
1  quart  of  milk. 
1  teacup  of  water. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Lump  of  butter  large  as  a  walnut,  melted  and  poured  in. 
Bake  in  hot  irons. 

One  secret  of  having  good  waffles  is  to  have  the  batter  thin. 
—  Miss  R.  S. 

Superior  Rice  Waffles. 
1  quart  flour. 
3  eggs. 

1  cup  boiled  rice,  beaten  into  the  flour. 
1  light  teaspoonful  soda. 
Make  into  a  batter  with  buttermilk.     Bake  quickly  in  wafile 
irons.      Batter  made  as  above  and  baked  on  a  griddle  makes 
excellent  breakfast  cakes. — Mrs.  D.  H.  K. 

Rice  Waffles. 
1  pint  of  flour. 
1  jiint  of  new  milk. 
The  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Half  teacup  of  boiled  rice. 
A  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  soda,  sprinkled  in  the  flour 

and  sifted  with  it. 
Beat  well.— i>/rs.  F. 

Another  Recipe  for  the  Same. 
Two  gills  of  rice,  mixed  with  three  ounces  of  butter,  thi-ee  eggs, 
three  gills  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  cream  enough  to  make  the 
batter.     Beat  till  very  light. — Mrs.  Dr.  8. 

Mush  Waffles. 

With  one  pint  of  milk,  make  corn  mush.     When  cool,  add  a 

5 


60  *       BREAKFAST  CAKES — VELVET  CAKES. 

teblespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  thicken  with  flour  to  a 
stiff  batter.     Bake  quickly  in  irons. — Mrs.  C.  L.  T, 

Breakfast  Cakes. 
In  the  morning  take  the  dough  of  a  pint  of  flour.     Beat  two 
eggs  light  and  mix  them  with  a  half  pint  of  milk,  then   add 
these  ingredients  to  the  dough,  let  it  stand  an  hour  to  rise,  and 
then  bake  as  buckwheat  cakes. — Mrs.  Dr.  fT. 

Madison  Cakes. 
Two  pounds  of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  ounces  of  lard,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  yeast.  Make  up  with  new  milk,  the  consistency  of 
roll  dough,  at  night.  Flour  the  biscuit  board  and  roll  out  the 
dough  in  the  morning  about  thi'ee  quarters  of  an  inch  thick, 
ciitting  the  cakes  with  a  dredgiug-box  top.  Let  them  rise, 
covered  with  a  cloth,  till  fifteen  minutes  before  breakfast. 
— Mrs.  L. 

Orange  Cakes. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  teacup  of  butter. 
4  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 
Make  into    a  stifi"  batter  with  milk,  the   over-night.     Next 
morning,  add  a  teacup  of  Indian  meal.     Beat  v/ell  and  put  in 
cups  ^jO  rise  before  baking. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

Velvet  Cakes. 
1  quart  of  flour, 
1  quart  of  milk. 
1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 
1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 
3  eggs. 
Bake  in  muffin  rings. — Mrs.  A.  C. 


flaknel  cakes — buckwheat  cakes.  51 

Flankel  Cakes. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  pint  of  meal. 
1  teacup  of  milk. 

1  teacup  of  yeast. 
3  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

Beat  well  together  and  let  it  rise  till  usual  time  in  a  warm 
place.     Excellent. — Mrs.  W.  B. 

A^nother  Recipe  for  Flannel   Cakes. 

1  quart  of  flour. 

2  eggs. 

1^  pint  boiled  milk  (used  cold). 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast  (added  after  the  other  ingredients 

have  been  mixed). 
Beat  light,  and  set  to  rise  till  morning. 
Bake  on  a  griddle. — Mrs.  Dr.  tT. 

Another  Recipe  for  the  Same. 
4  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

Half  teacup  of  butter  or  lard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Flour  to  make  the  batter  like  pound  cake. — Mrs.  S. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 
1  quart  buckwheat  flour. 
1  pint  sifted  corn  meal. 
Half  teacup  of  yeast. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
A.fter  rising,  stir  in  a  half  teacup  of  butter  or  lard.     Let  if 


52  BUO^WHEAT   CAKES CBEAM   CAKES. 

rise  a  second  time,  grease  the  griddle,  dip  the  spoon  in  lightly, 
and  cook  quickly. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Another  Recipe  for  JBuckwheat  Cakes, 
1  pint  of  buckwheat  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  of  meal. 
1  tablespoonful  of  yeast. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
INIake  up  with  water  the  over-night,  and  beat  till  it  bubbles. 
[n  the  morning  beat  again,  and  just  before  baking  stir  in  a 
pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  milk  or  water. — Mrs.  Col.   W. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 
1  quart  buckwheat  flour. 
1  pint  wheat  flour.. 
•^  teacup  yeast. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 
Make  into  a  batter  with  warm   water.     Set  to  rise.     Thin 
the  batter  with  a  cup  of  milk  (to  make  them  brown  well). 
Add  a  pinch  of  soda  and  bake  quickly  on  a  griddle.     Butter 
and  send  to  the  table  hot. — Mrs.  D.  13.  IK. 

Another  Recipe  for  the  Scrnie. 

1  pint  buckwheat.  ;  [ 
^  pint  sifted  meal.                                                          ',  \ 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast. 
1-^  pint  lukewarm  water. 
Beat  well  and  set  to  rise  till  morning. — Mrs.  Dr.  J". 

Ceeam  Cakes. 
1  pint  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  cream  (or  milk). 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg. 


OBEAM   OAKES — BOSTON   CKEAM   CAKES.  53 

Put  the  milk  and  biittei'  on  the  fire  till  it  boils.  Mix  and 
bake  quickly  in  pans.      Salt  to  taste. 

Another  Mecipe  for  Creaia  Cakes, 

1  quart  of  cream  (sour  is  preferable). 
4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Flour  for  a  thick  batter. — Mrs.   G. 

Another  Recipe  for  the  So/me. 

1  quart  of  flour. 
3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard. 
1  pint  of  cream. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Bake  in  tins. — Mrs.  A.   C. 

Boston  Cream  Cakes. 

2  cups  of  flour. 
2^  cups  of  water. 
1  cup  of  butter. 
5  eggs. 
Boil  the  butter  and  water  together,  stir  in  the  flour  while 
boiling  ;  after  it  is  cool,  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.     Put  a  large 
spoonful   in   muflin   rings,  and   bake   twenty  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

The  cream  for  tliem  is  made  as  follows  : 

Put  over  the  fire  one  cup  of  milk  and  not  quite  a  cup  of 
sugar,  one  egg,  mixed  ^vith  three  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  a  few  moments  only. 
When  cool,  add  vanilla  to  the  taste. 

Open  the  cakes  and  fill  them  with  this  cream. — M.  If.  Jv. , 


54  buttekmilk  0ae.e8 — bice  0ak£8. 

Buttermilk   Cakes. 

1  quai't  of  flour. 

2  eggs,  well  beaten. 
1^  pint  of  buttermilk. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  very  light,  after  mixing  the  ingredients.     Just  befoi-f 
baking,  stir  in  a  Uttle  soda,  mixed  in  a  little  of  the  buttermilk. 
Bake  on  a  griddle,  free  from  grease. — Mrs.  L. 

Sour  Milk  Cakes. 
1  pint  sour  milk. 
1  pint  flour. 

Butter  size  of  a  small  egg. 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
1  saltspoonful  of  salt. 
Half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Bake  in  hot  and  well  greased  iron  clads. 

Farina  Cakes. 
Melt  together  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Then  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  farina  and  boil  till 
quite  thick.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  bake,  add 
three  well  beaten  eggs,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  salt  to  your 
taste.— ilfrs.  8. 

Rice  Cakes. 
Put  one  pound  of  rice  in  soak  the  over-night.  Boil  very 
soft  in  the  morning,  drain  the  water  from  it  and  mix  with  it, 
while  hot,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  After  it  has  cooled, 
add  to  it  one  quart  of  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  six  eggs.  Sift 
over  it  and  stir  into  it  gradually  a  half  pound  of  flour.  Beat 
the  whole  well  and  bake  on  a  griddle  like  other  batter  cakes. — 
Mrs.  W. 


KIOE    CAKES OLD    VIRGINIA    BATTKK   CAKES.  55 

Another  Recipe  for  Rice  Cakes. 
One  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice,  rubbed  in  a  quart  of  milk,  one 
pint   of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two   eggs   beaten    light. 
Beat  all  till  free  from  lumps.     Bake  as  soon  as  made,  on  a  well 
greased  griddle. 

Batter  Cakes. 
Two  eggs  beaten  separately.  Pour  into  the  yolks  a  pint  of 
buttermilk,  then  put  in  two  handfuls  of  meal  and  one  of  flour, 
then  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a 
little  salt.  Fry  with  very  little  gi'ease,  or  with  egg  shells. 
Put  two  spoonfuls  of  batter  to  a  cake. — Mrs.  C.  L.  T. 

Another  Recipe  for  Ratter  Cakes. 
1  quart  of  flour. 
1  pint  of  meal. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
3  eggs. 
Make  up  with  buttermilk. — Mrs.  Dr.  tT. 

Ratter  Cakes  made  of  Stale  Rread. 
Put  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  to  stand  all  day  in  a  pint  of  milk. 
Just  before  tea  add  three  eggs  and  one  laige  spoonful  of  butter. 
If  too  thin,  add  a  little  flour. — Mrs.  R. 

Old  Virginia  Ratter  Cakes. 

Beat  two  eggs  very  light  in  a  bowl.  Add  one  teacup  of 
clabber,  one  of  water,  one  of  corn  meal,  a  teacup  of  flour,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Just  before  baking,  sift  in  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  stir  well.  It  is  better  to  grease  the 
griddle  with  fat  bacon  than  with  lard. 

The  above  proportions  will  make  enough  batter  cakes  for  two 
or  three  pei'sons. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


56  OLD    VUlOmiA    BA.'1TEK   OAKES — BATTEK   BBEAD. 

Another  Hecijjefor  the  Same. . 

1  quart  sweet  milk. 

1  heaping  pint  corn  meal, 

4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Half  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  tablespoonful  of  warmed  butter  or  fresli  lard. 
Break  the  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  together,  beat  slightly,  then 
add  the  milk,  stir  in  the  meal  and  beat  until  it  looks  light. 
Bake  on  a  giiddle.  — Mrs.  J".  P. 

Cheap  Jxecipe  for  Batter  Cakes. 
1  pint  of  sour  milk.  . 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
Enou2;h  meal  to  make  a  good  batter. 
Bake  on  a  hoe. — 3Iiss  K.  P. 

Indian  Griddle  Cakes. 
1  quart  of  sour  milk. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted  after  measuring. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Make  a  thin  batter,  with  two-thirds  Indian  meal,  and  one- 
third  flour. 

A  small  bag  made  of  coarse  but  thin  linen  or  cotton,  and 
filled  with  common  salt,  is  much  better  to  rub  over  the  griddle 
than  lard,  when  cakes  are  to  be  fried  or  baked. 

Batter  Bread. 

Break  two  eggs  into  a  bowl.     Beat  to  a  stiff"  froth.     Pour  in 

one  teacup  of  clabber  or  butter-milk,  one  of  water,  one  of  corn 

meal,  one  of  flour,  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  heaping  teaspoonful 

of  butter  melted.     Beat  all  well  together.     Have  already  heated 


BATTER  BEEAD — COKN   MEAL   WAFFLES.  57 

on  the  stove  or  range,  iron-clad  muffin  moulds  (eight  or  ten  in 
a  group).  Grease  them  well  with  a  clean  rag,  dipped  in  lard. 
Fill  each  one  nearly  full  with  the  batter,  first  sifting  in  half  a 
teaspoonful  soda.  Set  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  a  nice  brown. 
Oblong  shapes  are  the  nicest.  If  preferred,  sweet  milk  may  be 
uied  instead  of  sour  milk  aiid  water.  In  this  case  add  anothcfr 
egg  and  dispense  with  the  soda. — 3Irs.  S.  T. 

Batter  Bread. 
Four  cups  of  meal,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  one  tablespoouful  lard,  one   teaspoonful  salt, 
half  teaspoonful  soda. — Mrs.  l'\ 

Batter  Bread. 

One  cup  meal,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter-milk,  two 
eggs,  one  tablespoouful  butter,  one  tablespoouful  flour,  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  same  of  soda. 

Bake  in  cups. — Mrs.  G. 

Corn  Muffins. 

3  eggs,  beaten  light. 

1  pint  of  buttermilk  (if  very  sour,  use  less). 
1  teacup  of  cream  or  milk. 
I  small  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Lard  or  biitter  size  of  an  egg. 
Meal  enough  to  make  the  batter  of  the  consistency  of  pound- 
cake batter. — Mrs.  I, 

Corn  Meal  Waffles. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal  scalded.  While  hot  add  to  it,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  butter,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  a  cup  of 
boiled  rice,  a  pint  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Tliin  to  the  proper  consistency  with  milk. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 
3* 


58  ST.  Nicholas'  pone — corn  cake. 

St,  Nicholas'  Pone. 
1  quart  of  meal. 
1  quart  of  milk. 
4  eggs. 
1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs.  G.  G. 

Gkit  or  Hominy  Bread. 
2  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
1  pint  of  milk. 
Small  piece  of  butter. 
Add  enough  meal  and  hominy  to  make  a  batter,  and  bake 
quickly.— iJ/rs.  G.  L.  T. 

Hominy  Bread. 
Mix  with  two  teacups  of  hot  hominy  a  very  large  spoonful  of 
butter.  Beat  two  eggs  very  light  and  stir  into  the  hominy. 
Next  add  a  pint  of  milk,  gradually  stirring  it  in.  Lastly,  add 
half  a  pint  of  corn  meal.  The  batter  should  be  of  the  consist- 
ency of  rich  boiled  custard.  If  thicker,  add  a  little  more  milk. 
Bake  with  a  good  deal  of  heat  at  the  bottom,  but  not  so  much 
at  the  top.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan,  allowing  space  for  rising. 
When  done,  it  looks  like  a  baked  batter  pudding. — Mrs. 
F.  D. 

Corn  Cake. 
1  pint  of  corn  meal. 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

2  tablespoonful s  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Boil  the  milk  and   pour  it  over  the  meal,  flour,  and  butter. 


MUSH   BREAD — OLD-FASHIONED   EGG   BKEAD.  59 

Beat  light.     Wlien  cool,  add  eggs  well  beaten.     Bake  in  a  but- 
tered ^-dn.—Mrs.   G.   W.  P. 

Mush  Bread. 

Make  a  thin  mush  of  corn  meal  and  milk  (or  hot  water,  if 
milk  is  scarce).  Cook  till  perfectly  done,  stirring  all  the  cime 
to  keep  it  smooth.  Then  add  a  good  lump  of  butter ;  and,  after 
it  cools  a  little,  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Beat  in  a  very  small 
pinch  of  soda  and  a  little  salt. 

Butter  a  yellow  dish  and  bake  slowly  till  brown. — Mrs.  C. 
L.  T. 

Light  Corn  Bread. 
Pour  one  quart  of  boiled  milk  over  one  pint  of  corn  meal. 
Add  a  teaspoon  ful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  a  little  butter. — Miss  E.  P. 

Soft  Egg  Bread. 
1  quart  of  milk. 
Half  pint  of  meal. 
3  eggs. 

Large  spoonful  of  butter. 
Make  in  a  pudding  dish.     Bice  is  an  improvement  to  the 
above. — Mrs.  P. 

Old-fashions  d  Egg  Bread, 

1  pint  of  meal. 
3  eggs  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
Add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  rather  thin  batter.     Bake 
quickly. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


bO  OLD-FASHIONED    EGG.   BREAD CKACKLIN    BKEAD. 

Another  Iieci2ie  for  Egg  liread. 
1  quart  of  milk, 
3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
1  pint  of  corn  meal. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients. 
Bake  in  a  pan  or  dish.     Add  a  little  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  if 
you  desire  it. — Mrs.  I.  U. 

Indian  Bkead. 
Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  mix  alternately  with  them  one  pint 
of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  and  one  pint  of  fine  corn  meal. 
Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Dis- 
solve one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  small  portion  of  the  milk, 
and  add  to  the  other  ingi-edients,  last  of  all.  Beat  hard  and 
bake  in  a  pan,  in  a  hot  oven. 

E.ICE  Bread. 
1  pint  sweet  milk. 

1  teacup  boiled  rice. 

2  teacups  sifted  corn  meal. 
■^  teacup  melted  butter. 

3  eggs,  beaten  sepai-ately. 
■^  teaspoonful  salt. 

Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven,  using  buttered  iron  muffin  moulda. 
—Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cracklin  Bread. 
Take  one  quart  sifted  corn  meal  and  a  teacup  of  cracklins. 
Rub  the  latter  in  the  meal  as  fine  as  you  can.     Add  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt   and  make,  vip  with  warm  water  into  a  stitl 
dough.     Make  into  pones,  and  eat  hot. — 3Irs.  P.  JV. 


virginia  ash  cake — boiled  coffee.  61 

Virginia  Ash  Cakje. 

Add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  sifted  corn  meal. 
Make  up  with  water  and  knead  well.  Make  into  round,  flat 
cakes.  Sweep  a  clean  place  on  the  hottest  part  of  the  hearth. 
Put  the  cake  on  it  and  cover  it  with  hot  wood  ashes. 

Wash  and  wipe  it  dry,  before  eating  it.  Sometimes  a  cab- 
bage leaf  is  placed  under  it,  and  one  over  it,  before  baking,  in 
which  case  it  need  not  be  washed. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Plain  Corn  Bread. 
1  pint  sifted  meal. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Cold  water  sufficient  to  mak-e  a  stiff  dough. 
Work  well  with  the  hands,  pat  out  in  long,  narrow  pones, 
six  or  seven  inches  long  and  as  wide  as  the  wrist.     Bake  quickly 
in  a  hot  pan. — Mrs.  P.  W. 


COFFEE,  TEA,  AND  CHOCOLATE. 

To  toast  Coffee. 

Wash  and  pick  the  coffee,  put  it  in  a  very  large  stove-pan  in 
a  hot  oven.  Stir  often,  giving  constant  attention.  It  must  be 
toasted  the  dai'kest  brown,  yet  not  one  grain  must  be  burned. 
It  should  never  be  glazed,  as  this  destroys  the  aroma. 

Two  pints  of  coffee  become  three  pints  after  toasting. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

Boiled  Coffee. 
To  one  quart  of  boiling  water  (poured  in  after  scalding  the 
pot)  stir  in  three  gills  of  coffee,  not  ground  too  fine.     Boil 


62  COFFEE. 

tweaty  minutes,  scraping  from  the  sides  and  stirring  occasion 
ally.  Five  minutes  before  breakfast,  scrape  from  the  spout, 
pour  out  half  a  teacupful,  and  return  to  the  pot.  Do  this  a 
second  time.  Set  it  with  the  side  of  the  pot  to  the  fire,  so  that 
it  will  be  just  at  the  boiling  point.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  however. 
Serve  in  the  same  coffee-pot. 

Coffee  should  never  be  glazed. 

Have  a  liberal  supply  of  thick,  sweet  cream,  also  of  boiled 
milk,  to  serve  with  the  coffee. 

If  the  members  of  the  family  drop  in  at  intervals,  it  is  well 
to  keep  the  coffee  over  a  round  iron  weight,  heated  just  enough 
to  keep  the  coffee  hot,  without  boiUng  it.  This  answers  better 
than  a  spirit  lamp  for  keeping  coffee  hot. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Coffee. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  Mocha,  Java,  Laguayra  and  Rio 
coffee.  Have  the  coffee  roasted  a  chestnut  brown.  To  every 
twelve  cups  of  coffee  to  be  drawn,  use  eighteen  heaping  table- 
spoons of  the  ground  coffee.  Have  the  water  boiling  hot,  scald 
the  biggin  or  percolator,  put  the  ground  coffee  in  the  upper 
part,  then  pour  on  some  boiling  water  for  it  to  draw — about 
two  teacups  if  you  are  to  make  twelve  cups  of  coffee.  Let  it 
stand  a  few  moments  and  pour  again  into  the  upper  part  of  the 
percolator  the  first  drawn  coffee.  Then  add,  one  by  one,  the 
cups  of  boiling  water  required.  It  will  take  ten  minutes  for 
the  coffee  to  be  ready  for  the  table. 

Use  the  best  white  sugar,  and  in  winter  let  the  milk  stand 
twenty-four  hours  for  the  cream  to  rise.  Use  together  with 
rich    cream,    a    cream  jug   of  boiling   sweet   milk. — Mrs.  M. 

c,  c. 

Coffee. 
Buy  Java  and  Laguayra  mixed,  two-thirds  Java  and  one- 
third  Liguayra,  which  will  give  a  delightful  aroma  to  the  Java, 
Scald   the  pot.     Then  put  in  a  teacup  of  coarsely  ground 


DKIPPED  OK  FILTERED  COFFEE GREEN  TEA.      63 

coffee,  parched  a  light  brown  and  mixed  with  cold  water  till  it 
forms  a  paste,  to  six  cups  of  boiling  water.  Before  you  put 
in  the  boiling  water,  add  to  the  grounds  one  or  more  egg-shells 
or  whites  of  eggs,  to  keep  it  clear.  Let  it  boil  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Before  taking  it  off  tlie  fire,  drop  in  about  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cold  water,  which  will  settle  all  the  floating  grounds. — 
Mrs.  J.  P. 

Dripped  or  Filtered  Coffee. 
If  one  quart  of  coftee  is  desired,  grind  thi-ee  gills  of  coffee, 
put  it  in  the  filterer  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it.     If  not  suf- 
ficiently strong,  pour  out  and  return  to  the  filterer.     Then  set  on 
the  fire  and  boil  up,  taking  from  the   fire   immediately. — Mrs. 

jS.  t. 

Dripped  Coffee. 
One-half  pint  Java  coffee  ground  and  put  in  the  dripper. 
Pour  over  it  two   and  one-half  pints  boiling  water.      If  not 
strong  enough,  pass  through  the  dripper  a  second  time. — Mrs. 
J.  11.  McD. 

Caf:6  au  Lait. 

1  cup  German  chiccory. 

2  cups  ground  coffee. 

Pnt  in  three  pints  boiling  water  with  a  pinch  of  isinglass, 
boil  five  minutes  and  allow  it  to  settle,  or,  if  made  in  a  percola- 
tor it  will  be  better.  Use  three-quarters  of  a  cup  boiling 
milk  and  one-quarter  of  strong  coffee,  with  sugar  to  suit  the 
taste.— Jfr«.  J.  W.  S. 

Green  Tea. 
Scald  the  teapot,  and  add  one-half  pint  boiling  water  to  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  the  best  green  tea.  Set  it  where  it  will  keep 
hot,  but  not  boil.  When  it  has  drawn  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes, add  boiling  water  till  it  has  the  strength  desired. — Mrs.  tT. 
JR.  McD. 


64  GEEEN   TEA — ICED   TEA. 

Green   Tea. 
Scald  the  teapot.     If  yon  wish  a  pint  of  tea,  pnt  in  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  tea  after  piitting  in  a  pint  boiling  water.     Set 
this  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  quite  boil. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

A  good  Cup  of  Green  Tea. 
Before  putting  in  any  water,  set  the  teapot  with  the  tea  in  it 
before  the  fire  and  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot.     Then  fill  the  pot 
with  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  five  minutes. — Mrs.  M.  E 
L.  W. 

Black  Tea. 
If  you  wish  a  quart   of  tea,  put  that  quantity  of  boilinj, 
water  into  the  teapot,  after  scalding  it.      Add  four  teaspoonfuls 
of  tea.     Boil  twenty  minutes.     It  is  a  great  improvement  to 
put  in  a  little  green  tea. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

JSlack   Tea. 
Add    one    and    one-half   pint   boiling  water   to  a   half-tea- 
cupful  of  the  best  black  tea.     Boil  gently  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.     If  too  strong,  weaken  with  boiling  water. — 3frs.  T. 
R.  McD. 

Iced  Tea. 
After  scalding  the  teapot,  put  into  it  one  quart  of  boiling 
water  and  two  teaspoonfuls  green  tea.  If  wanted  for  supper, 
do  this  at  breakfast.  At  dinner  time,  strain,  without  stirring, 
through  a  tea-strainer  into  a  pitcher.  Let  it  stand  till  tea  time 
and  then  pour  into  decanters,  leaving  the  sediment  in  the  bottom 
of  the  pitcher.  Fill  the  goblets  with  ice,  put  two  teaspoonfuls 
granulated  sugar  in  each,  and  pour  the  tea  over  the  ice  and 
sugar.  A  squeeze  of  lemon  will  make  this  delicious  and 
healthful,  as  it  will  correct  the  astringent  tendency. — Mrs. 
S.  T, 


chocolate milk  and  butrek.  65 

Chocolate. 
Scrape  fine  one  square  of  Baker's  chocolate  (which  will  be  au 
ounce).  Put  it  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water  and  milk,  mixed  in 
equal  parts.  Boil  it  ten  minutes,  and  during  this  time  mill  it 
or  whip  it  with  a  Dover  egg-whip  (one  with  a  wheel),  which 
will  make  it  foam  beautifully.  Sweeten  to  the  taste,  at  table. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cocoa. 
To  one  pint  milk  and  one  pint  cold  water  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  grated  cocoa.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  mill- 
ing or  whipping  as  directed  in  foregoing  recipe.  Sweeten  to 
taste,  at  the  table.  Some  persons  like  a  piece  of  orange-peel 
boiled  with  it.— ilf/-s.  S.  T. 

Broma. 

Dissolve  one  large  tablespoonful  broma  in  one  tablespoonful 
warm  water.  Pour  on  it  one  pint  boiling  milk  and  water  (equal 
parts).  Boil  ten  minutes,  milling  or  whijjping  as  above  directed. 
Sweeten  to  the  taste. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

A  cream-pitcher  of  whipped  cream  should  always  accompany 
chocolate  or  any  prejjai'ation  of  it,  such  as  cocoa  or  broma. — 
Mrs.  S.   T. 


MILK   AND    BUTTER. 

The  most  exquisite  nicety  and  care  must  be  observed  in  the 
management  of  milk  and  butter.  A  housekeeper  should  have 
two  sets  of  milk  vessels  (tin  or  earthenware,  never  stoneware, 
as  thia  is  an  absorbent).     She  should  never  use  twice  in  succes 


66  MILK   AND   BUTTEK. 

sion  the  same  milk  vessels  without  having  them  scalded  and 
aired. 

In  warm  weather,  sweet  milk  should  be  set  on  ice,  if  practi- 
cable, or  if  not,  in  a  spring-house.  Never  put  ice  in  sweet  milk, 
as  this  dilutes  it.  One  pan  of  milk  should  always  be  set  aside 
to  raise  cream  for  cofiee.  A  bucket  with  a  close-fitting  lid  should 
be  filled  with  milk  and  set  aside  for  dinner,  one  for  supper,  one 
for  breakfast,  and  a  fourth  for  cooking  purposes. 

For  making  butter,  strain  unskimmed  milk  into  a  scalded 
churn,  where  the  churning  is  done  daily.  This  will  give  sweeter 
butter  and  nicer  buttermilk  than  when  cream  is  skimmed  and 
kept  for  churning,  as  this  sometimes  gives  a  clieesy  taste  to  the 
butter.  Do  not  let  the  milk  in  the  churn  exceed  blood  heat. 
If  overheated,  the  butter  will  be  white  and  frothy,  and  the  milk 
thin  and  sour.  Churn  as  soon  as  the  milk  is  turned.  In  sum- 
mer tiy  to  churn  early  in  the  morning,  as  fewer  flies  are  swarm- 
ing then,  and  the  butter  can  be  made  much  firmer. 

A.  stone  churn  is  in  some  respects  more  convenient  than  a 
wooden  churn ;  but  no  matter  which  you  use,  the  most  fastidi- 
ous neatness  must  be  observed.  Have  the  churn  scalded  and 
set  out  to  sun  as  soon  as  possible  after  churning.  Use  your  last 
made  butter  for  buttering  bread,  reserving  the  staler  for  cookery. 

Butter  should  be  printed  early  in  the  morning,  while  it  is 
cool.  A  plateful  for  each  of  the  three  meals  should  be  placed 
in  the  refi-igerator  ready  for  use.  Do  not  set  butter  in  a  re- 
frigerator with  anything  else  in  it  but  milk,  or  in  a  safe  with 
anything  but  milk.  It  readily  imbibes  the  flavor  of  everything 
near  it.  After  churning,  butter  should  be  taken  up  in  what  is 
called  "  a  piggin,"  first  scalded  and.  then  filled  with  cold  water. 
With  an  old-fashioned  butter- stick  (scalded)  wash  and  press  the 
butter  till  no  water  is  left.  Then  add  a  little  salt,  finely  beaten. 
Beat  again  in  a  few  hours,  and  make  up  in  half-pound  prints. 
I  would  advise  all  housekeepers  (even  those  who  do  not  make 
their  own  butter)  to  keep  a  piggin,  a  butter-stick,  and  a  pretty 
butter-print. 


TO    SECCTKE    NICE    BUTTKK    FOK   THE    TABLE    IN    WINTEK.      67 

To  secure  nice  Mutter  for  the  Table  in  Winter. 
In  October  aud  November,  engage  butter  to  be  brought 
sreekly,  fresh  from  the  churn  in  rolls.  Wrap  each  i-oll  in  a 
piece  of  old  table  cloth,  and  put  in  a  sweet  firkin  or  stone  jar 
which  has  been  washed  with  soda  water,  scalded  and  sunned 
for  a  month  before  using.  Pour  over  it  a  clear  strong  brine, 
which  also  must  have  been  prepared  at  least  a  week  before- 
hand, by  pouring  off  the  settlings  and  repeated  strainings. 
Have  a  nice  tiat  rock  washed  and  weight  the  butter  down  with 
it,  being  careful  to  keep  it  always  under  the  briue. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

liecipe  for  Putthuj  up  Sutter 
2  quarts  best  common  salt. 
1  ounce  pulverized  saltpetre. 
1  ounce  white  sugar. 
Work  the  butter  over  thi-ee  times,  the  last  time  adding  an 
ounce  of  the  above  mixture  to  every  pound  butter.     Of  course, 
the  butter  is  salted,  when  first  made.     Make  the  butter  into 
rolls  and  wrap  in  cloths  or  pack  in  jars,  within  four  inches  of 
the  top  of  each  jar.     If  the  latter  is  done,  fill  the  jars  with 
brine  and  tie  up  closely.     If  the  former  is  preferred,  drop   the 
rolls  into  brine,  prepared  as  follows  : 

To  every  gallon  brine  that  will  bear  an  egg,  add  one  pound 
white,  sugar  and  one-half  ounce  saltpetre.  Boil  well  and  skim. 
Keep  the  brine  closely  covered.  I  have  used  butter  on  my 
table  in  May,  put  up  in  this  way,  aud  it  tasted  as  well  as  when 
put  up  in  October. — Mrs.  R.  C. 

Clabber. 
To  have  clabber  in  perfection,  place  in  small  glass  dislins  or 
bowls  enough  milk  to  make  clabber  for  each  person.  After  it 
has  turned,  set  it  in  the  refrigerator,  if  in  summer,  till  called 
for.  By  the  way,  refrigerators  (as  well  as  water- coolers)  should 
be  washed  every  morning  with  water  in  which  a  tablespoonful 


68  COTTAGE   CHEESE  — SOUP. 

of  common  soda  has  been  dissolved.     They  should  then  be  aired 
before  filling  with  ice  for  the  day. — Mrs,  jS.  T. 

Cottage  Cheese. 
When  the  tea-kettle  boils,  pour  the  water  into  a  pan  of  "  lop- 
pered"  milk.  It  will  curd  at  ouce.  Stir  it  and  turn  it  into  a 
colander,  pour  a  little  cold  water  over  it,  salt  it  and  break  it 
up,'  A  better  way  is  to  put  equal  parts  of  buttermilk  and 
thick  milk  in  a  kettle,  over  the  fire,  heat  it  almost  boiling  hot, 
pour  into  a  linen  bag  and  let  it  drain  till  next  day.  Then  take 
it  out,  salt  it,  put  in  a  little  cream  or  butter,  as  it  may  be  thick 
or  not,  and  make  it  up  into  balls  tl**!  Hiije  of  an  orange. 


SOUP. 
As  making  soup  is  a  tedious  process,  it  is  best  to  make 
enough  at  once  to  last  seveial  days.  Beef  shank  is  most  gen- 
erally used  in  making  nutritious  soup.  It  is  best  to  get  this 
the  day  before  using  it,  and  soak  it  all  night  in  cold,  clear  water. 
If  you  cannot  do  this,  however,  get  it  as  early  in  the  morning 
as  you  can.  Break  the  bones,  wash  it,  soak  it  a  few  minutes  in 
weak  salt  and  water,  and  put  it  in  a  large  boiler  of  cold  water. 
As  soon  as  it  begins  to  simmer,  remove  the  dark  scum  that 
rises  on  top.  Keep  the  boiler  closely  covered,  and  boil  very 
slowly  till  an  hour  or  two  before  dinner.  Then,  with  a  ladle, 
remove  all  the  fat  from  the  top,  as  it  is  this  element  that  makes 
soup  unwholesome.  Strain  and  season,  or,  if  you  prefer,  season 
just  enough  for  one  meal,  reserving  the  rest  as  foundation  for 
another  sort  of  soup.  It  is  well  always  to  keep  some  of  this 
stock  on  hand  in  cold  weather,  as  by  the  addition  of  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  or  other  ingredients,  a  delicious  soup  may  be  quickly 
made  of  it.     Never  throw  away  water  in  which  any  sort  of  meat 


OYSTER    SOUP ECONOMICAL   OYSTEK   SOUP.  69 

has  beeu  boiled,  as  it  is  much  better  to  simmer  bash  or  a  stew 
in  this  liquor  than  in  water,  and  it  is  also  invaluable  for  bast- 
ing fowls  or  meats  tliat  have  not  been  parboiled. 

Directions  for  soup  making  are  so  fully  given  in  the  follow 
tng  pages  that  it  is  needless  for  me  to  say  anything  further  on 
the  subject  here. 

Oyster  Soup. 

100  oystei's. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

^  pound  butter. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

1  pint  lich  milk,  perfectly  fresh. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flovir. 
Separate  the  oysters  from  the  liquor :  put  the  liquor  to  boil, 
when  boiled  add  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  then  the  flour,  having 
previously  made  it  into  a  batter.  Stir  all  the  time.  When  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  milk,  and 
when  the  mixture  reaches  a  boil,  put  in  the  oysters  ;  let  them 
also  just  boil,  and  the  soup  is  done.  Stir  all  the  time  to  pre- 
vent curdling. — Jifrs.  Judge  M. 

ECONOMIUAL    OySTEK    SoUP. 

1  quart  oysters. 

2  quarts  water. 

Boil  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  up  one  tablespoonfiil  butter  with  flour  and  put  in  while 
boiling;  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  light,  mix  them  with  one- 
half  pint  milk. 

When  the  oysters  are  well  cooked,  pour  on  the  milk  and  eggs, 
stirring  all  the  time.     Let  it  boil  up,  and  take  off  quickly,  and 
pour  into  the   tureen,   over    toasted   bread   cut   into    dice — if 
preferred    rich,   leave    out   some     of    the    water.-— iirr.<f.    X,t. 
G<yv.  M. 


70  oystee  soup — pokee  of  oystees. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Empty  the  oysters  into  a  colander  and  drain  off  all  the  liquor ; 
then  strain  the  liquor  thi-ough  a  very  coarse  cloth  to  rid  it  of 
all  scum,  etc.     To  a  whole  can  of  oysters  take  a  quart  of  milk 

Put  the  milk,  oyster  liquor,  one  level  tablespoonful  flour 
I'ubbed  very  smooth  with  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  salt,  one-half  teasj^oonful  pepper,  all  on  the 
fire  together  in  a  farina-boiler  (or  put  a  skillet  one-third  filled 
with  boiling  water  under  the  saucepan,  to  prevent  the  milk 
burning).  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  oysters  and  let 
them  stew  for  twenty  minutes  or  till  the  gill  of  the  oyster  turns 
and  begins  to  ruffle  and  crimp  at  the  edge.  Serve  immediately, 
for  if  they  are  cooked  too  long,  they  become  hard,  dark  and 
tasteless.  If  you  put  the  salt  in  last,  it  will  not  curdle  the 
soup.  Some  add  one  level  teaspoonful  whole  cloves  and  same 
of  mace,  tied  up  in  a  net  bag,  but  they  ai-e  little  improvement, — 
Mrs.  R. 

PuRf  E  OP  Oysters. 

For  fifty  oysters. 

Put  the  oysters  on  in  their  own  liquor — let  them  come  to  a 
boil — take  them  out  and  mince   them  ;  skim  the  liquor  when 
nearly  done.     Beat  well  together: 
1  egg. 

1  dessertspoonful  butter. 
\  pint  milk. 
1  cracker  sifted. 

Salt,  pepper  (mace,  also,  if  liked). 
Pour  this  into  boiling  liquor  and  then  add  the  minced  oys- 
ters.    When  done,  the  soup  is  smooth.      The   milk   must  b« 
fresh  or  it  will  curdle. — 3frs.  tTohn  Walker^  Alabama. 

Oyster  Soup. 
Take  two  quarts  of  oysters,  wash  them,  and  add, 
2  quarts  water. 


TUBTLE   SOUl'.  71 

A  bundle  of  herbs. 

1  small  onion  sliced. 

Let  it  boil  until  all  the  substance  is  out  of  the  oysters. 
Strain  the  liquor  from  the  ingredients  and  put  it  back  in  the 
pot.  Add  a  large  si)ooirful  butter  mixed  with  flour.  Have 
ready  two  dozen  oysters  to  throw  in  just  as  it  is  ready  to  be 
dished — at  the  same  time  stii*  up  two  yolks  of  eggs  with  a 
cup  of  cream.  Cayenne  pepper  is  an  improvement. — Mrs. 
E.  W. 

Turtle  Soup. 

Kill  the  turtle  at  daylight  in  summer,  the  night  before  in 
winter,  and  hang  it  up  to  bleed.  After  breakfast,  scald  it  well 
and  scrape  the  outer  skin  off  the  shell ;  open  it  carefully,  so  as 
not  to  break  the  gall.  Break  both  shells  to  pieces  and  put 
them  into  the  pot.  Lay  the  fins,  the  eggs  and  some  of  the 
more  delicate  parts  by — put  the  rest  into  the  pot  with  a  quan- 
tity of  water  to  suit  the  size  of  your  family. 

Add  two  onions,  parsley,  thyme,  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and  all- 
spice to  suit  your  taste. 

About  half  an  hour  before  dinner  thicken  the  soup  with 
brown  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together.  An  hour  before  din- 
ner, take  the  parts  laid  by,  roll  them  in  brown  flour,  fry  them 
in  butter,  put  them  and  the  eggs  in  the  soup  ;  just  before  dinner 
add  a  glass  of  claret  or  Madeira  wine. — M^}-s.  JST. 

Tv/rtle  Soup. 
To  one  turtle  that  will  weigh  from  four  to  five  pouiivls,  after 
being  dressed,  add  one-half  gallon   water,  and  boil  until   the 
turtle  will  drop  to  pieces,  then  add  : 

2  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

When  nearly  done,  put  in  a  small  handful  pot  marjoram, 
thyme  and  parsley  tied  together,  and  two  large  onions ;  when 


73         TDKTLE   SOUP — MOCK-TUKTLK   SOUP — CLAM   SOUP. 

ready  to  come  off,  add  two  sliced  lemons,  one  pint  good  wine, 
and  a  small  quantity  of  curry  powder;  thicken  with  flour. — 
Mrs.  D. 

Turtle  Soup. 

To  2^  quarts  soup  add  : 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  dessertspoonful  allspice. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

Pepper,  black  and  cayenne,  and  salt  to  your  taste. 
Tie  up  a  bunch  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  onion  in  a  cloth,  and 
throw  into  soup  when  boiling.  When  nearly  done,  thicken  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  liour.  To  give  it  a  good  color,  take  one 
tablespoonful  brown  sugar  and  burn  it ;  when  burnt,  add  a  wine- 
glass of  water.  Of  this  coloring,  put  two  tablespoonfuls  in 
soup,  and  just  before  serving,  add  half  a  jjint  Madeira  wine. — 
Miss  E.   W. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

Put  on  beef  and  boil  very  tender ;  take  out,  chop  fine,  and 
put  back  to  boil.  Put  potatoes,  mace,  cloves,  cinnamon, 
parsley,  thyme,  spice,  celery  seed,  and  ten  hard-boiled  eggs ; 
pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 

Thicken  with  flour  and  add  brandy  and  wine. — Miss  E.  P. 

Mock  Terrapin  Soup. 

Cut  up  two  pounds  roast  or  boiled  beef  in  small  pieces.  Put 
one  large  teacup  new  milk,  one  large  teacup  of  wine,  a  piece  of 
butter  size  of  an  egg  (rolled  in  flour),  a  little  nutmeg,  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  mixed  mustai'd — all  in  a  stewpan,  and  cook 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Good  way  to  use  up  cold  meats. — Mrs. 
S.  M. 

Clam  Soup. 

Boil  half  a  peck  of  clams  fifteen  minutes ;  then  take  them 
from  the  shells,  clean  and  wash  them.     Have  ready  the  stew- 


CLAM   SOITP — CKAB    SOUP.  73 

kettle ;  strain  the  water,  in  which  clams  have  been  boiled ; 
chop  up  clams,  and  p\xt  in  with  three  or  four  slices  of  salt  pork, 
some  mashed  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Thicken  with 
grated  cracker,  and  add  two  spoonfuls  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes  and  serve. — Mrs.  G. 

Clam  Soup. 
Open  the  clams  and  chop  them  up  fine.     To  twenty  clams, 
add : 

•^  gallon  water. 
3  good  onions. 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
A  small  bunch  of  parsley  and  thyme. 
Just  before  taking  off,  add  one  quart  rich  milk  and  thicken 
with  flour. — Mrs.  D. 

Crab  Soup. 

Open,  and  cleanse  of  the  deadman's  fingei-s  and  sandbag, 
twelve  small  fiit  crabs  raw.  Cut  the  crabs  into  two  parts. 
Parboil  and  extract  the  meat  from  the  claws,  and  simply 
extract  the  fat  from  the  back  shells  of  the  crabs.  Scald 
eighteen  ripe  tomatoes,  skin  them  and  squeeze  the  pulp  from 
the  seeds  through  a  colander.  Chop  them  fine  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  the  seeds  and  juice,  and  strain  them.  Stew  a  shoi't 
time  in  the  soup-pot  one  large  onion,  one  clove  of  garlic,  in  one 
spoonful  butter  and  two  spoonfuls  lard,  and  put  them  in  the 
tomatoes. 

After  stewing  a  few  minutes,  add  the  meat  from  the  claws, 
then  the  crabs,  and  lastly  the  fat  from  the  back  shells.  Season 
with  salt,  cayenne  and  black  pepper,  parsley,  sweet  marjoram 
and  thyme,  one-half  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  and  peel  of  one 
lemon.  Pour  in  the  water  with  which  the  seeds  were  scalded, 
adding  more  should  there  not  be  the  quantity  of  soup  required. 
Boil  moderately  one  hour.  About  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
serving,  sift  in  grated  bread  crumbs  or  pounded  crackers  as  a 


74       TO   PREPARE   A   BEBF's   HEAD   AS   STOCK   FOE   SOUP. 

thickening.     Any  firm  fish  prepared  by  this  recipe  is  excellent. 
—Mrs.  J.  I. 

Crab   Soup. 

One  dozen  crabs  to  one  gallon  water.  Take  off  +op  shell ; 
clear  body  of  crabs.  Cut  through  the  middle,  put  them  into  a 
kettle,  mix  with  some  butter,  and  brown  them.  Then  add  one 
gallon  water,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Skim  slightly,  and 
add  the  hock  of  an  *  Id  ham,  and  strained  tomato  juice  one 
pint.  Boil  two  hours.  Season  with  pepper,  spice  if  liked,  and 
half-pint  wine. 

The  claws  are  to  be  cracked  and  divested  of  the  jaws.  A 
Hampton  recipe. — Miss  JS.   W. 

Beef  Soup. 
Crack  the  bone  of  a  shin  of  beef,  and  put  it  on  to  boil  in  one 
quart  water.     To  every  pound  meat  add  one  large  teaspoonful 
salt  to  each  quart  water.     Let  it  boil  two  hours  and  skim  it 
well.     Then  add : 

4  turnips,  pared  and  cut  into  quarters. 
4  onions,  pared  and  sliced. 
2  carrots,  scraped  and  sliced. 
1  root  of  celery,  cut  into  small  pieces. 
When  the  vegetables  are  tender,  add  a  little  parsley  chopped 
fine,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  P. 
McG. 

Another  Hecipe  for  Beef  Soup. 

One  shin  beef  in  one-half  gallon  water,  put  on  before  break- 
fast and  boiled  until  dinnei*.  Thicken  with  brown  flour  two 
or  three  hours  before  dinner.  Put  in  one  carrot,  two  turnips, 
on«  onion,  thyme,  cabbage,  and  celery-seed, — Mrs.  H.  P.  G. 

To  prepa/re  a  Beefs  ffead  as  Stock  for  Soup. 
Cut  up  the  head  into  small  pieces,  and  boil  in  a  large  quantity 
of  water  until  it  is  all  boiled  to  pieces.     Take  out  all  the  bones 


CALF*8   HEAD   SOUP.  75 

as  for  souse  cheese,  aud  boil  again  until  tliick.  Then  while  hot, 
season  very  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  catsup,  allspice,  and  onions 
chopped  fine. 

Put  into  a  mould  to  get  cold.  For  a  small  family  cut  a  thick 
slice,  say  five  inches  square,  whenever  you  want  soup  in  a 
hurry,  adding  aboixt  a  quart  of  water.  It  need  cook  for  a  few 
minutes  only,  and  is  valuable  as  keeping  well  and  being  ready 
in  times  of  emergency.  By  adding  a  few  slices  of  hard-boiled 
egg  and  a  gill  of  good  cooking  wine,  this  soup  may  have  very 
nearly  the  flavor  of  mock  turtle. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

Calf's  Head  Soup. 
Take  one-half  liver  and  the  head  of  a  mutton,  veal  or  beef, 
and  boil  until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bone.     Cut  up  fine  and 
add  one-half  the  brains  ;  then : 
1  onion. 

1  spoonful  spice. 
•J  spoonful  cloves. 

1  spoonful  black  pepper  and  a  piece  of  mace. 
3  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
Put  in  enough  water  at  first,  as  adding  it  makes  the  soup  thin. 
Cut  up  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  add,  when  done,  one  glass 
of  wine. 

A  little  brandy  and  walnut  catsup,  with  more  eggs,  will 
improve  it,  though  it  is  a  delightful  soup  as  it  is. — Mrs.  W. 
A.  G. 

Calfs  Head  Soup. 
Clean  the  head,  laying  aside  the  brains.      Put  the  head  in  n 
gallon  of  water,  with  pepper  and  salt.     Boil  to  pieces  and  take 
out  bonos  ;  return  to  the  pot  with — 

1  teacup  of  mushroom  or  tomato  catsup. 
1  teaspoonfial  allspice. 
1  lemon  rind,  grated. 


76  oalf's  head  sotrp. 

1  grated  nutmeg. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  teacup  of  browned  flour. 
Fry,  and  add  the  brains  when  nearly  ready  for  the  table. 
About  five  minutes  before  serving,  add  : 
1  teacup  of  wine. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
When  sent  to  the  table  have  two  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  and 
floating  on  top. — Mrs.  «7!  JD. 

Ccdfs  Head  Soup. 
Take  a  large  calf's  head  and  boil  it  with  four  gallons  water 
and  a  little  salt ;  when  tender,  bone  and  chop  it  fine,  keeping 
out  the  brains,  and  put  the  meat  back  in  the  pot  and  boil  down 
to  a  tureenful.     Half  an  hour  before  serving  the  soup,  add : 
1  tablespoonful  mustard. 
1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 
Brown  a  cup  of  flour  to  thicken  and  just  as  the    soup  is 
dished,  add  one  cup  walnut  catsup,  and  one  cup  port  or  claret 
wine. 

The  brains  must  be  beaten  up  with  an  egg,  fried  in  little 
cakes,  and  dropped  in  the  tureen. — Miss  N. 

Calf's  Head  Soup. 
Take  the  head,  split  it  open  and  take  out  the  brains ;  then 
put  the  head,  brains,  and  haslet  in  salt  water — let  them  soak 
one  hour.  Put  on  to  boil  at  eight  o'clock ;  after  boiling  four 
hours,  take  it  up  and  chop  up  the  head  and  haslet,  removing  all 
the  bones;  return  to  the  soup,  with  a  small  pod  of  pepper. 
Thicken  it  with  one  pint  browned  flour  with  one  tablespoonfuJ 
butter  rubbed  in  it.     Have — 


BKowN  calf's  head  SOUP— -calf's  uead  sour.       71 

1  tablespoonful  mace. 
1  tablespoonful  allspice. 
|-  doz,  cloves. 
Beat  all  together  and  put  iu  the  tureen  with, 
1  teacup  of  tomato  catsup.   • 

1  teacup  of  cooking  wine. 

Pour  the  soup  on  them.  Have  the  brains  fried,  and  t'»o 
hard  boiled  eggs  sliced  and  dropped  iu  the  soup. — Mrs.  T.  C. 

Brown  Galfs  Head  Soup. 
Scald  and  clean  the  head,  and  put  it  to  boil  in  two  gallons 
water,  with 

A  shank  of  veal. 

2  carrots. 

3  onions. 

A  small  piece  of  bacon. 

A  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
When  they  have  boiled  half  an  hour,  take  out  the  head  and 
shank,  and  cut  all  the  meat  off  the  bone  in  pieces  two  inches 
square.  Let  the  soup  boil  half  an  liour  longer,  then  strain  it 
and  put  in  the  meat,  and  season  with  salt,  black  and  cayenne 
pepper  (and  a  few  cloves,  if  you  like  tliem).  Thicken  with 
butter  and  brown  flour. 

Let  it  now  boil  nearly  an  hour  longer,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing it,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  sugar  browned  in  a  frying-pan, 
and  half  a  pint  wine.  A  good  substitute  for  turtle  soup. — Mr9. 
Col.  A.  F. 

Calfs  Head  Soup. 

Have  a  head   nicely  cleaned,  the  brains  taken  out  and  the 
nead  put  to  soak.     Put  it  on  with. 
1  gallon  water. 
1  piece  of  fat  ham. 
Thyme,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 


78  OX-TAIL   SOUP — CHICKEN    SOUP. 

Boil  together  until  the  flesh  is  tender ;  take  out  and  chop — 
strain  the  water — two  tablespoonfuls  brown  flour,  four  ounces 
butter — returning  the  "  dismembered-"  fragments ;  let  it  boil 
till  reduced  to  two  quarts.  Season  with  one-half  pint  wine, 
one  gill  catsup,  nutmeg,  mace,  allspice. 

Cut  up  the  liver,  and  fry ;  beat  the  brains  up  with  an  egg, 
pepper  and  salt ;  fry  in  cakes  and  lay  in  the  soup  when  served 
up,  and  hard  boiled  eggs  sliced  up  and  put  in. — Miss  3.  L. 

Ox-tail  Soup. 
"Wash  and  soak  three  tails ;  pour  on  them  one  gallon  cold 
water  ;  let  them  be  brought  gradually  to  boil,  throw  in  one  and 
a  half  ounce  salt,  and  clear  off  the  scum  carefully  as  soon  as  it 
forms  on  the  surface.     When  it  ceases  to  rise,  add : 
4  moderate  sized  carrots. 
2  or  3  onions. 
1  large  bunch  savory  herbs. 

1  head  celery. 

2  turnips. 

6  or  8  cloves,  and  ^  teaspoonful  peppercorns. 
Stew  these  gently  frjom  three  hours  to  three  and  a  half 
hours.  If  the  tails  be  very  large,  lift  them  out,  strain  the 
liquor  and  strain  off  all  the  fat.  Cut  the  meat  from  the  tails 
and  put  it  in  two  quarts  or  more  of  the  stock.  Stir  in,  when 
this  begins  to  boil,  a  thickening  of  arrow-root  or  of  rice  flour, 
mixed  with  as  much  cayenne  and  salt  as  may  be  required  to 
flavor  the  soup,  and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.  P. 

Chicken   Soup. 
Put  on  the  chickens  with  about  three  quarts  water  and  some 
thin  slices  bacon.     Let  it  boil  well,  then  put  in : 
A  spoonful  butter. 
1  pint  mUk. 
1  egg,  well  beaten. 
Pepper,  salt,  and  celery  or  celery-seed  or  parsley. 


ROAST  VEAL   AND   CHIOKEN-BONB   ROUP — OKRA   SOUP.      79 

Let  all  boil  up.     Some  dumplings  made  like  biscuits  are  verji 
nice  in  it. — Mrs.  W. 

Moast  Veal  and  Chicken-hone  Soup. 
Boil  the  veal  and  cbicken  bones  with  vegetables,  and  add  one 
handful  maccaroni,   broken  up   fine.      Boil  the  soup   half  an 
hour.     Color  with  a  little  soy  or  catsup. — Mrs.  S. 

Chicken  Soup. 
Put  on  the  fire  a  pot  with  two  gallons  water  and  a  ham  bone, 
if  you  have  it ;  if  not,  some  slices  of  good  bacon.  Boil  this  two 
hours,  then  put  in  the  chickens  and  boil  until  done :  add  one- 
half  pint  milk  and  a  little  thickening ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the 
taste.  After  taking  off  the  soup,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg.  Squirrel  soup  is  good  made  the  same  way,  but  takes 
much  longer  for  a  squirrel  to  boil  done. — Mrs.  I*.   W. 

GiBLET  Soup. 
1  pint  dried  green  English  peas. 
1  pound  giblets. 
1  dozen  cloves. 
1  small  piece  red  pepper. 
Nearly  1  gallon  water. 
Boil  peas  slowly  seven  hours.  Add  giblets,  spices,  and  salt  to 
taste,  two  hours  before  dinner.    When  peas  are  dissolved,  strain 
through  sieve  ;  cut  giblets  into  dice  and  i-etui-n  to  soup  ;  boil  up 
and  serve.     Will  be  enough  for  six  or  eight  persons. — Mra. 
E.  R. 

Okra  Soup. 
1^  gallons  water. 

2  quarts  young  okra,  cut  very  fine. 
2  quarts  tomatoes. 
Onions,  prepaied  as  for  pea  soup. 
Pepper;  salt. 
1  large  spoonful  butter. 


80  OUMBO   SOUP — FINE   VEGETABLE   SOUP. 

Add  the  tomatoes  about  twelve  o'clock.  Put  the  soup  on 
early  in  the  morning. — Mrs.  I. 

Gumbo  Soup. 
1  fried  chicken. 
1  quart  okra,  cut  up, 
1  onion. 

1  bunch  parsley. 
Few  celery  tops — fry  all  together.    Put  in  one  quart  skinned 

tomatoes. 
1^  gallons  water,  boil  to  ^  gallon. 
Teacup  of  wine  after  taking  from  the  fire. — Mrs.  H.  A. 

Gumbo  Soup. 

Fry  two  fowls,  old  or  young,  with  parsley,  pepper,  salt, 
onion,  lard  or  bacon. 

Put  it  in  the  pot  with  water  suflB.cient  for  the  soup.  One 
quart  sKced  okra,  scrap  of  ham  or  fried  sausage  to  boil  with  it. 

Sassafras  Gumbo  is  made  in  the  same  way,  except  after  the 
fowl  has  boiled  until  the  flesh  has  left  the  bone,  just  before  taking 
off  the  fire,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  sassafras  flour.  Oysters 
are  a  great  improvement  to  sassafras  gumbo.  Gather  the  sassa- 
fras leaves  green,  and  dry  in  the  shade,  as  sage  ;  when  thoroughly 
dry,  rub  through  a  sieve  and  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  It  is 
nice  in  beef  soup  instead  of  okra. — Mrs.  T. 

Fine  Vegetable   Soup. 
Put  on  two  pounds  of  fresh  beef,  or  a  good-sized  chicken,  or 
ham  bone  if  you  have  it,  early  in  the  morning.     Put  your  boiler 
on  filled   with  water.     Keep  boiling,  and  when  boiled  down, 
about  one  hour  or  more  before  dinner,  add : 
Grated  lemon  peel. 
6  ears  corn. 
1  dozen  good  tomatoes. 


VEGETABLE  80DP.  81 

Beans. 

1  small  head  of  cabbage. 

A  few  Irish  potatoes. 

Sweet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
A  few  leaves  of  dried  sassafras  rubbed  up  will  improve  the 
taste.     Serve   hot  with   toast,  a  small  quantity  of  sugar  and 
vinegar.     Boil  till  thick. — Mrs.  Dr.  L. 

Vegetable  Soup. 
Before  breakfast,  wash  a  beef  shank  in  several  waters,  break 
the  bone,  and  put  it  in  a  large  pot  of  cold  water.  Keep  it 
steadily  boiling  until  one  hour  before  dinner,  when  the  follow- 
ing vegetables,  previously  prepared,  must  be  added  to  the  soup 
after  it  has  been  carefully  skimmed  of  all  grease,  and  strained. 

1  quart  peeled  and  chopped  tomatoes. 

1  pint  lima  or  butter  beans. 

1  pint  grated  corn. 

1  pint  chopped  cabbage. 

1  pint  sliced  Irish  potatoes. 

1  sliced  turnip. 

1  carrot. 

A  Kttle  minced  onion. 

Parsley. 

1  tablespoonful  pepper  saiTce. 

1  heaping  tablespoouful  flour  rubbed  into — 

1  teacup  milk. 

1  teacup  brown  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

Boil  an  hour :  thicken  with  mixed  milk  and  flour,  and  serve. 

A  piece  of  middling,  bacon,  or  any  other  kind  of  meat,  may  be 

used  instead  of  the  beef  shank.     The  best  meat  of  the  shank 

may  be  freed  from  gristle,  chopped  fine  and  made  into  a  nice 

stew  by  adding 

1  grated  turnip. 

1  mashed  potato. 


82  TOMATO   SOUP. 

1  tablespoonful  pepper  sauce. 
1  tablespoonful  made  mustard. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  celery  seed. 
1  teaspoonful  fruit  jelly. 
1  teacup  milk. 
Minced  onion  and  parsley. 
Boil  up  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Tomato  Soup. 
Take  one  quart  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped  up,  or  a 
three-pound  can  of  same,  put  in  an  earthenware  baking  dish 
with 

1  pint  grated  corn  (or,  if  in  winter,  dried  corn  prepared  as  ii 

for  the  table),  and  add —  , 

1  teacup  sugar. 
1  teacup  grated  cracker. 
1  teacup  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Set  this  in  a  hot  oven  with  a  tin  plate  over  it  to  prevent 
browning.  Have  ready,  in  a  porcelain  kettle  or  pan,  two 
quarts  new  milk  boiling  hot.  When  the  tomatoes  and  corn  are 
thoroughly  done,  stir  in  one  large  Irish  potato  mashed  smooth, 
a  little  minced  onion  and  parsley,  and  pour  into  the  boiling 
milk  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Tomato   Soup. 

A  shin  of  beef,  season  to  your  taste  with  all  kinds  of  vegeta- 
bles: 

Tomatoes,  turnips,  carrots,  potatoes,  cabbage  cut  fine,  corn, 
butter  beans  and  celery. 

When  nearly  done,  take  vegetables  out  and  mash  them  well, 
and  also  cut  the  beef  up  fine.     It  is  best  to  season  with  salt  and 


OLEAJt  TOMATO   SOUP — PEA   SOUP.  83 

pepper  when  you  first  put  it  on.     TJie  beef  should  be  put  on 
very  early. — Mrs.  tT.  L. 

Clear    Tomato    Soup. 

1  large  can  tomatoes. 

1  beef  shin. 

1  bunch  soup  herbs. 

1  gallon  water. 
Boil  eight  hours,  stir  and  skim  several  times.    Strain  through 
wire  sieve,  add  one  tablespoonful  Worcester  sauce  and  same  of 
brown  sugar.     Serve  ^vith   dice  of  toasted  bread ;  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste. — 3frs.  H.  H. 

Asparagus  Soup. 
Cut  the  asparagus  into  small  pieces  and  put  on  to  boil  in  salt 
water,  with  slices  of  middling ;  just  before  dinner,  taking  it  off, 
beat  four  eggs  and  stir  in  one  pint  milk  or  cream,  a  piece  of 
butter.  A  piece  of  veal  may  be  boiled  with  it,  if  you  wish 
meat. — Mrs.  S. 

Asparagus  Soup. 
Parboil  the  asparagus   with   as   much  water  as  will   cover 
them ;  then  pour  the  water  and  asparagus  into  milk,  then  add 
butter,  pepper  and   salt,  also   bread  crumbs,  and  boil  until  the 
asparagus  is  done. — Mrs.  S. 

Pea   Soup. 

Soak  one  pint  of  split  peas  in  water  for  twelve  hours  ;  drain 
off  the  water,  put  the  peas  into  a  saucepan  with  three  pints 
cold  water,  one-half  pound  bacon,  two  sprigs  of  dried  mint,  a 
bay  leaf,  some  parsley,  an  onion  stuck  with  one  or  two  cloves, 
some  whole  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Let  the  whole  boil  three  hours,  then  pass  the  puree  through 
a  hair  sieve ;  make  it  hot  again  and  serve  with  dice  of  bread 
fried  in  butter. — Mrs.  A. 


84  gkeen  pea  soup — potato  soup. 

Gbeen  Pea  Soup. 

Boil  one  quart  peas  in  two  quarts  water,  and  two  thin  slices 
bacon.  When  done  mash  through  a  colander  ;  then  put  back 
in  the  same  water,  throwing  away  the  slices  of  bacon.  Season 
with  pepper,  salt,  spoonful  butter  rolled  in  flour. 

Boil  well  again.  Toast  some  bread  and  cut  in  slices,  and  put 
in  the  tureen  when  the  soup  is  served.  The  hulls  of  green  peas 
will  answer  ;  boil  them  well  with  a  few  peas,  then  season  as  above 
and  boil.  Two  hours  will  be  enough  to  boil  green  pea  soup. — 
Mrs.  W. 

Green  Pea  Soup. 

Boil  half  a  peck  of  peas  in  one  and  a  half  gallons  water,  till 
perfectly  done.  Take  out,  mash  and  strain  through  a  colander, 
then  pour  a  little  of  the  water  well  boiled  over  them,  to  sepa 
rate  the  pulp  from  the  hull.  Return  it  to  the  water  they  were 
boiled  in ;  chop  up  one  large  or  two  small  onions ;  fry  them  in 
smallest  quantity  of  lard,  not  to  brown  them.  Add  this  with 
chopped  thyme,  jjarsley,  pepper  and  salt. 

Just  before  taking  off  the  fire  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  butter. 
If  the  soup  is  too  thin,  cream  a  little  butter  with  flour  to 
thicken. — Mrs.  I. 

Potato  Soup. 

Mash  potatoes,  pour  on  them  one  teacup  cream,  one  large 
spoonful  butter. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  them  till  you  have  the  desii'ed  quantity. 
Boil  until  it  thickens ;  season  with  salt,  parsley,  and  pepper  tc 
your  taste. — Mrs.  R.  E. 

Potato  Soup. 
Pour  two  quarts  water  on  six  or  seven  large  peeled  potatoes, 
adding  two  or  three  slices  of  middling ;  boil  thoroughly  done. 
Take  them  out,  mash  the  potatoes  well  and  return  all  to  the 


0TSTER8   AND   OTHER   SHELL   FISH STEWED   OTSTERS.     85 

same  water,  together  with  pepper,  salt,  one  spoonful  butter,  and 
one  quai-t  milk,  as  for  chicken  soup. — Mrs.  TFl 


OYSTERS   AND   OTHER   SHELL  FISH. 

Stewed  Oysters. 
Put  butter,  salt  and  pepper  in  a  stew-pan,  and  put  the  oysters 
to  the  butter  and  stew  until  perfectly  done. — Ifos.  D. 

Stewed  Oysters. 
Take  one-quarter  pound  nice  butter,  put  it  in  a  pan  and  melt, 
then  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  small  piece  of  cheese.  When  it  is 
all  melted  add  one  pint  of  oyster  liquor,  and  boil ;  when  hot, 
strain  and  put  back  in  pan,  then  add  oysters  and  boil  five  min- 
utes.—Jir.  K.  jsr. 

Stewed  Oysters. 
Pour  into  a  stew-pan  |-  gallon  oysters. 
2  tablespoonfnls  pepper  vinegar. 
1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Let  them  simmer  until  the  oysters  are  plump  ;  take  them  out 
with  a  fork  and  drop  them  into  a  tureen,  on  a  handful  of  crack- 
ers and  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  fresh  butter. 

Pour  one  pint  milk  to  the  liquor,  let  it  boil  up  and  strain  it 
on  the  oysters.  Rinse  out  the  stew-pan  and  pour  the  oysters, 
liquor,  etc. ,  back  into  it,  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  When  it  comea 
to  a  boil,  serve. 

This  method  deprives  the  oysters  of  the  bits  of  shell — Mva 
S.  T. 


86       TO  STEW  OYSTERS — SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

To  Stew  Oysters. 

Put  into  the  kettle  one  pint  liquor,  one-half  pound  butter, 
and  pepper. 

Let  it  boil,  then  put  in  the  oysters,  after  draining  them  in  a 
colander.  They  will  be  done  as  soon  as  they  boil  up,  or  when 
they  curl  right  well.  When  ready  to  take  up,  add  half  tea- 
cup cracker  crumbs  and  a  little  salt  in  the  stew. — Mrs.  P.   W. 

To  Stew  Oysters. 

Put  into  a  shallow  stew-pan  the  oysters.  As  soon  as  the  gills 
begin  to  open  pour  oflF  all  the  liquor.  Continue  to  cook  them, 
stirring  all  the  time  until  done.  The  liquor  that  was  poured 
off  must  be  thickened  with  a  good  lump  of  butter  rubbed  up 
with  flour,  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  poured  boil- 
ing-hot onto  the  oysters. 

The  advantage  of  this  way  of  cooking  is  that  the  oysters 
become  large  and  plump. — Mrs.  Dr.  E.  H. 

To  Cook  Oysters. 

\  gallon  oysters. 

1  quart  fresh  milk. 

■^  pound  buttei'. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  pepper. 

1  egg. 
Rub  the  egg  and  flour  together  and  thin  with  a  little  of  the 
milk.  Mix  the  oysters,  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  come  to 
a  boil ;  then  add  the  milk,  and  when  this  boils  add  the  egg  and 
flour  with  the  butter.  Let  the  whole  boil  three  minutes. — Miss 
N.  S.  L. 

Scalloped   Oysters. 
Do  not  drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  but  fork  them  out 
of  it  as  you  use  them  ;  in  that  way  as  much  liquor  as  you  re- 


SOATXOPED    OYSTfiKS.  87 

quire  adheres  to  them.     Use  stale  bread,  and  do  not  crumb  it 
too  fine,  or  it  will  be  clammy, 

■^  teacupful  cream. 

2  great  spoonfuls  butter. 

Salt  and  pepper. 
Oysters  part  with  a  great  deal  of  moisture  in  cooking,  and  if 
the  mixture  is  too  wet  it  is  not  as  good  ;  it  should  be  rather  dry 
when  done.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  dish  with  a 
layer  of  very  dry  bread  crumbs,  dust  over  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  stick  little  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  crumbs ;  then, 
with  a  spoon,  moisten  it  with  cream.  Next,  place  a  layer  of 
oysters,  alternating  with  bread  crumbs,  until  the  dish  is  filled, 
finishing  with  butter  and  cream ;  invert  a  plate  over  it  to  keep 
in  the  flavor.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hoar,  or  until  the 
juice  bubbles  to  the  top.  Remove  the  plate,  and  brown  on  the 
upper  shelf  of  the  oven  for  two  or  three  minutes  only. — Mrs.  H. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 
Those  who  are  fond  of  oysters  prepared  in  this  way  will  find 
them  much  more  delicate  when  cooked  entirely  by  reflected 
heat.  Have  your  tinner  make  you  an  old-fashioned  "  tin-kit- 
chen "  with  sloping  sides.  Take  small  oblong  dishes,  such  as 
are  in  general  use  at  hotels,  fill  them  with  alternate  layers  of 
oysters  and  rolled  crackers,  and  lay  lumps  of  fresh  butter  liber- 
ally on  top  of  each  dish.  Arrange  them  in  the  "  kitchen,"  set 
the  open  dish  in  front  of  a  bright  fire  or  very  warm  grate,  and 
in  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  you  will  find  the  oysters  delicious. 
—Mrs.  B.  P. 

Scalloped   Oysters. 

Put  on  the  oysters  with  just  enough  liquor  to  keep  from 

burning,  and  parboil  slightly.     Season  the  rest  of  the  liquor  as 

foi-  stewed  oysters  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  flour, 

and  boil  until  done.     Put  the  parboiled  oysters  in  a  baking- 


88  OTSTKRS   60AI.L0PED   IN   THE   SHELL — ^DEVILLED. 

dish,  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  grated  cracker  or  stale  bread 
and  pepper,  and  pour  as  much  of  the  gravy  as  the  dish  will 
hold.  Put  a  little  of  the  grated  cracker  on  top,  and  set  it  in  the 
oven  to  brown. — M^rs.  W. 

Oysters  Scalloped  in  the  Shell. 

Open  the  shells,  setting  aside  for  use  the  deepest  ones.  Havd 
ready  some  melted  butter,  not  hot,  seasoned  with  minced  pars- 
ley and  pepper. 

Roll  each  oyster  in  this,  letting  it  drip  as  little  as  may  be, 
and  lay  in  the  shell,  which  should  be  arranged  in  a  baking-pan. 

Add  to  each  a  little  lemon  juice,  sift  bread  crumbs  over  it, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  done.     Serve  in  the  shells. — Mrs.  S* 

Scalloped   Oysters. 

Put  in  the  scallop  shells  as  many  oysters  as  each  will  hold. 
Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper ;  a  few  bread  crumbs. 

Cook  until  well  done ;  add  a  piece  of  butter  just  before  they 
are  served. — Mrs.  H.  L.  0. 

Devilled  Oysters. 

Put  a  layer  of  raw  oysters  iu  a  pan,  and  then  a  layer  of  bread- 
crumbs, black  and  red  pepper,  salt,  butter,  mustard,  and  a  little 
vinegar  mixed  together. 

Put  alternate  layers  of  each   until   full,  and   then  bake. — 

Mrs.  Duke. 

Devilled   Oysters. 

Drain  one  quart  oysters ;  chop  thoroughly  and  season  with 
cayenne  pepper,  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  beaten  and  stirred  in  ;  one-half 
as  much  bread  crumbs  as  you  have  oysters,  and  one  large  table- 
spoonful  butter. 

Have  ready  one  dozen  deep  shells,  nicely  cleaned,  and  fill 
them  witlx  the  oysters ;  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
in  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  S. 


TO  COOK  OYSTBKS TO  FKY  OYSTEKS.         89 

To  Cooh  Oysters. 
Put  into  a  baking-bowl  a  layer  of  cracker-crumbs,  pepper,  and 
butter.  If  the  butter  is  salty  do  not  use  any  salt.  Then  a 
layer  of  oysters,  after  they  have  been  drained  from  their  liquor ; 
do  this  alternately  till  the  dish  is  full.  Be  sure  and  put  the 
cracker  crumbs  at  the  top  of  the  dish,  and  bits  of  butter,  also 
pepper  :  this  makes  it  brown  nicely.  Set  it  in  a  hot  oven ;  as 
soon  as  browned  it  will  be  ready  for  the  table. — 3frs.  P.  W. 

Fried  Oysters. 
Take  each  oyster  separately  and  put  salt  and  pepper  on  them  j 
then  roll  them  in  equal  portions  of  meal  and  flour.     Fry  them 
in  hot  lard  until  a  Hght  brown. — Mrs.  I). 

Oyster  Fritters. 
Beat  two  eggs  very  light;  then  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
cream  or  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour,  a  pinch  of 
salt;  dip  the  oysters  in  this  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  JS. 

Oyster  Fritters. 

Wipe  the  oysters  dry.     Beat  6  eggs  light,  and  stir  into  them : 
6  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1^  pint  rich  milk. 
Beat  to  smooth  batter.     Have  in  a  pan  some  butter  and  lard  ; 
when  it  begins  to  froth,  put  a  small  ladleful  of  the  batter,  witli 
an  oyster  in  the  middle,  into  it  to  fry.     If  too  thin,  add  flour ; 
if  too  thick,  milk. — Mrs.  H. 

To  Fry  Oysters. 
Drain  the  oysters  through  a  sieve ;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  over  them.  Dip  each  oyster  into  meal.  Have  the  pan 
hot,  and  drop  in  an  equal  portion  of  lard  and  butter ;  when 
boiling,  put  in  the  oysters  and  fry.  Do  not  let  them  stand, 
but  serve  hot. — Mi-s.  E. 


9c  fkied  oysters — steamed  oysters. 

Fried  Oysters. 
Drain  the  oysters  through  a  sieve.  Beat  up  two  cr  three 
eggs.  Have  ready  some  grated  bread  crumbs.  Sprinkle  some 
salt  and  a  little  pepper  over  the  oysters ;  then  dip  each  oyster 
into  the  egg  and  bi-ead  crumbs.  Have  the  pan  hot  and  clean ; 
put  equal  portions  of  butter  and  lard  into  the  pan.  Be  careful 
to  keep  the  fat  of  oysters  from  burning. — Mrs.  R. 

To  Fry  Oysters. 
Wash  them  and  dry  them  on  a  clean  napkin ;  dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  pounded  crackers  sifted,  and  let  them  lie  several  hours 
before  ftying,  and  they  will  not  shrink. — Mrs.  JP. 

To  Fry  Oysters. 
Drain   the   oysters   dry.       Three   eggs    beaten,   and   grated 
crackers.     Dip    the  oyster   first  in  the  egg  and  then  in   the 
crackers ;  do  this  twice.     Grease  the  pan  with  butter  or  lard. 
Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  fry. — -Mrs.  P.  W. 

Clam  or  Oyster  Fritters. 
Chop  up  the  clam  very  fine  (when  of  oysters,  leave  them 
whole)  ;  put  them  in  a  batter  and  fry  them. — Mrs.  D. 

Broiled  Oysters. 
Select  the  largest  oysters,  examining  each  one,  to  see  that  ni» 
particle  of  shell  adheres  to  it.  Dry  with  a  nice  linen  cloth ; 
then  pepper  and  salt  them,  and  sift  over  a  little  finely-powdered 
cracker.  Place  them  on  an  oyster  gridiron  over  a  quick  fire. 
As  soon  as  plump,  dip  each  one  in  a  cup  of  melted  fresh  butter ; 
lay  on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  scraped  horseradish  and  pars- 
ley, and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Steamed  Oysters. 
Wash  shell  oysters  perfectly  clean ;  lay  them  on  a  steamer, 
80  the  juice  will  not  escape  from  the  shells  when  opened.     It 


IX)    KOAST   OTSTKKS PICKLED   OYSTEKS.  91 

is  best  to  lay  the  upper  shells  down.  Cover  the  lid  of  the 
steamer  with  a  coarse  towel  and  press  closely  on.  Set  this  over 
a  pot  of  water  boiling  hard.  In  from  twenty  minutes  to  half 
an  hour,  the  shells  will  have  opened.  Have  ready  a  hot  dish, 
on  which  lay  the  oysters ;  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  with  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  on  each  oyster.  Serve  imme- 
diately.—Jfrs.  S.  T. 

To  Roast  Oysters. 
Wash  and  wipe  one  peck  large  shell  oysters.  Put  in  a  hot 
oven,  taking  care  to  put  the  upper  shell  downwai'd,  so  the  juice 
will  not  escape.  As  soon  as  the  shells  open,  lay  on  a  hot  dish 
and  serve  with  horseradish  or  pepper-sauce,  after  sprinkling 
on  them  a  little  salt,  and  putting  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  on  each 
oyster. — Mrs.  K  T. 

Pickled  Oysters.    . 

1  gallon  oysters. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  "  unground  black  pepper. 

1  "  allspice. 

6  blades  mace. 

1  small  piece  cayenne  pepper. 
Pick  oysters  out  from  the  juice  with  a  fork;  stew  until  gills 
are  opened  well,  then  lay  on  flat  dishes  until  cold ;  put  in  a 
jar,  and  cover  with  equal  parts  of  stewed  juice  and  vinegar.     Let 
stand  two  days. — Mrs.  H.  H. 

J^ickled  Oysters. 
Take  two  hundred  oysters  of  largest  size,  rinse  them  in  their 
own  liquor  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan.  Strain  the  liquor  to 
them,  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  no  more.  Take  them  out  of 
the  liquor ;  have  ready  one  quart  or  moi-e  of  pure  cider  vine- 
gar, with  which  boil  whole  pepper,  a  little  salt,  mace,  cloves,  an<? 
nutmeg. 


92  PICKLED    OYSTERS OYSTER   PIE — OYSTER   PATES. 

When  it  is  cool,  pour  over  the  oysters.  Before  serving  add  a 
few  raw  cranberries  and  thin  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Pickled  Oysters. 

Take  one  gallon  oysters  and  cook  them  in  their  own  liquor 
till  nearly  done.  Then  skim  out  the  oysters  and  add  to  the 
liquor  one  teaspoonful  whole  black  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  all- 
spice, one  teaspoonful  mace,  a  little  red  pepper  and  half  a  puit 
of  strong  vinegai". 

Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  and  then  pour  over  the  oysters. 
When  nearly  cool,  slice  in  them  a  large  fresh  lemon. — Mrs.  Col. 
A.F. 

Oyster  Pie. 
Stew  the  oysters,  not  entirely  done,  with  butter,  pepper  and 
one  tablespoonful  pepper-sauce,  and  salt.  Make  a  paste  of 
one  pound  flour  and  one-half  pound  butter.  Line  the  dish  and 
put  in  the  oysters,  gx'ate  bread  crumbs  over  top,  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  T. 

Oyster  Pie, 
Put  a  paste  in  a  deep  dish.  Wash  the  oysters,  drain  and 
put  them  in  the  dish,  seasoning  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
little  mace,  if  liked ;  then  put  in  a  layer  of  grated  cracker. 
When  the  dish  is  full,  cover  with  paste  and  slips  of  paste  laid 
across ;  then  bake. — Mrs.  W . 

Oyster  Pat^s. 
Stew  some  large  oysters  with  a  little  nutmeg,  a  few  cloves, 
some  yolk  of  egg  boiled  hard  and  grated,  a  little  butter  and  as 
much  liquor  from  the  oysters  as  will  cover  them.  When 
stewed  a  few  minutes,  take  them  out  of  the  pan  to  cool.  Have 
shells  of  puff  paste,  previously  baked  in  patty  pans,  and  lay  two 
or  three  oysters  in  each. — Mrs.  D. 


oyster  shokt  cake kaw  oysters.  98 

Oyster  Short  Cake. 

1  quart  flour. 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

A  pincli  of  salt. 

Enougb  sweet  milk  to  moisten  well. 
Roll  about  one  inch  thick  and  bake  on  tin  pie  plates  quickly 
While  it  is  baking,  take  one  quart  oysters  and  one-half  cup 
water  and  put  on  the  stove  ;  then  take  one-half  cup  milk,  and 
one-half  cup  butter  mixed  with  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
and  a  little  salt  or  pepper ;  add  all  together  and  boil  up 
once. 

When  the  cakes  are  done,  split  them  open  and  spread  the 
oysters  between  them,  and  some  on  the  top.  Put  the  oysters 
that  are  left  in  a  gravy-dish  and  replenish  when  needed. — 
Mrs.  K. 

Oyster  Sausage. 

Chop  one  pint  oysters,  with  one-quarter  pound  veal,  and  one- 
quarter  pound  suet. 

Mix  with  bread  crumbs,  and  pound  all  in  a  mortar.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  adding  an  egg,  well  beaten. 

Make  into  cakes  like  pork  sausage. — Mrs.  E. 

Raw   Oysters. 

Take  each  oyster  separately  on  a  fork  and  drain  from  the 
liquor.  Place  on  the  table  in  an  oyster  tureen  or  salad  bowl ; 
have  near  a  pile  of  small  oblong  dishes ;  scraped  horseradish, 
pepper  sauce,  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  etc.,  so  that  after  being 
helped,  each  guest  may  season  to  taste. 

When  oysters  are  transported  some  distance,  it  is  well  to 
boil  the  liquor  from  which  they  have  been  taken  and  pour  over 
them :  tliis  makes  them  plump  and  prevents  them  from  being 
slimy.— i?/r5.  8.  T. 


94  TO   KEEP   OTSTEBS   ALIVE   AND    FATTEN. 

To  KEEP  Oysters  alive  and  Fatten. 
Mix  one  pint  of  salt  with  thirty  pints  of  water.  Put  the 
oysters  in  a  tub  that  will  not  leak,  with  their  mouths  upwards 
and  feed  them  with  the  above,  by  dipping  in  a  broom  and 
frequently  passing  over  theii*  mouths.  It  is  said  that  they  will 
fatten  still  more  by  mixing  fine  meal  with   the  water. — Mrs. 

To  Cook  Crabs. 
Take  live  crabs  and  put  them  in  cool  water,  let  them  remain 
for  half  an  hour.  Then  put  them  in  a  vessel,  pour  boiling 
water  on  them  sufficient  to  cover  tliem ;  boil  ten  minutes. 
Take  them  off  and  wipe  them  clean,  first  removing  the  dead  men, 
and  proceed  to  remove  the  meat.  Take  the  upper  shell,  clean 
it.  Season  the  meat  with  pepper,  salt,  ^mustard,  and  plenty  of 
butter ;  put  all  in  the  shell  again  and  bake  half  an  hour. — Mr. 
K.  Norfolk. 

Crab  Stew. 
One   peck  live   crabs,  steam  twenty  minutes,  bone  and  pick 
the  claws  and  bodies.     Stew  with  one  pint  milk  or  cream,  the 
flesh  and  eggs  of  the  crabs,  fifteen  minutes.     Flavor  with  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper. — Mrs.  M.  L.  0. 

Devilled  Crab. 

After  crabs  are  picked,  season  with  mustard,  pepper,  salt,  and 
catsup  to  taste.     Add  olive  oil  or  butter. 

Cover  with  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  milk  and  lumps  of 
butter  (put  a  little  milk  in  the  crab  also).  Bake  in  the  shells 
or  in  a  pan. — 3Iiss  E.  W. 

Devilled  Crabs. 
To  the  flesh  of  one  dozen  crabs  boiled  fifteen  minutes  and 
picked  free  from  shell,  add: 


SOFT  CKAB8 — LOBSTER   CURRY.  95 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs. 
^  wine  glass  of  cream. 
Yolks  of  3  eggs. 
A  little  chopped  parsley. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Put  them  in  the  shell  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — 3fTS.  M.  E. 
L.  W. 

Soft  Crabs. 
Turn  up  the  ends  of  the  shells  and  take  out  the  dead  man's 
fingers  and   take  off  the   flap,  and  cut  out  the  sand-bag ;  lay 
them  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  fry.     Then  dust  flour  over 
them,  a  little  salt,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  D. 

Devilled  Crabs. 
After  the  crabs  are  boiled,  pick  them  up   fine  and  add  one 
thii'd   the  quantity  of  crab,  in  cracker  dust  or   bread  crumbs, 
mustard,  red  and  black  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.     Return  them 
to  the  top  shells,  and  bake. — Mrs.  D. 

To  Devil  Hard  Crabs. 
Take  them  while  alive,  put  them  in  very  little  water  and 
steam  them  till  perfectly  done  and  brown,  set  them  away  till 
cold,  take  all  out  of  the  shell.  Mix  with  eggs,  bread  crumbs, 
butter,  and  pepper.  Either  put  back  in  the  top  shell  and  bake, 
or  bake  in  pans. — Mrs.  «/!   C. 

Lobster  Curry. 

Put  the  meat  of  a  large  lobster  into  a  stewpan  with  one  blade 
of  mace. 

1  large  cup  of  meat  stock,  or  gravy. 

1  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  mixed,  smooth,  with  a  little  milk 
or  cream. 

Add  salt. 

1  small  piece  of  butter. 


9Q  TURTLE    OR   TERRAPIN    STEW TO   COOK   TURTLES. 

1  dessertspoonful  curry  powder. 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Simmer  for  an  hour  and  serve  hot. — 3frs.   0. 

Turtle  or  Terrapin  Stew. 

Aftei  the}^  are  well  cleaned,  parboil  the  meat,  then  pick  it  to 
pi3ces.  Season  highly  with  pepper,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  hard- 
boiled  egg,  spices,  lemon,  and  champagne  or  other  wine. 

Stew  until  well  done. 

Stewed  Turtle. 
Make  a  stew  of  the  turtle  and  add  all  the  ingredients  used  in 
the  turtle-soup,  except  wine  and  lemons. — Mrs.  D. 

Terrapin. 

First  cut  up  the  head  and  put  it  in  the  pot  to  boil  with  the 
shell  on;  when  done  enough  to  remove  the  under  shell,  take  it 
up  and  pick  to  pieces.  Clean  the  top  shell  well ;  add  a  few 
crackers,  onions,  parsley,  allspice,  black  pepper,  butter,  and 
wine. 

Keturn  it  to  the  shell,  put  sliced  lemon  on  and  bake  it. — 
Mrs.  D. 

Turtle  or  Terrapin  Steaks. 
Cut  the  turtle  or  terrapin  in  thin  slices ;  broil  or  fry  them 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 

Turtle  or  Terrapin  in  Batter. 
Smother  the  steaks  in  an  egg-batter.     Season  with  pepjier, 
salt,  butter,  and  with  a  little  bread  crumbs ;  fry  or  broil. 

To  Cook  Turtles. 
Drop  four  turtles  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  one  hour  ;  then 
take  them  out  and  remove  the  skin  from  the  legs  and  feet,  and 
replace  them  in  fresh  boiling  water,  where  they  should  continue 


FISH.  97 

to  boil  one  and  one-half  hour  and  then  be  taken  out  to  cool. 
When  cold,  clean  them  thoroughly,  removing  the  round  liver 
which  contains  the  gall.  Cut  them  into  small  bits  and  place 
them  in  a  stewpan,  adding  pepper,  salt,  the  eggs  that  are  found 
within,  one  quart  water,  one-half  pound  butter,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  the  flour 
and  water  well  into  the  other  ingredients,  and  stew  about 
twenty  minutes.  As  you  remove  them  from  the  fire,  pour  ia 
one-half  pint  Madeira  wine. — Mrs.  A.  D. 


FISH. 

In  selecting  fish,  notice  if  the  flesh  is  firm  and  hard,  the  eyes 
full  and  prominent,  the  scales  bright,  the  fins  stifi",  and  the  gills 
red,  as  all  these  indications  denote  their  being  fresh.  Wash 
the  fish,  rub  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  it  on  a  dish,  or 
hang  it  up  till  ready  to  cook.  Never  keep  it  lying  in  water, 
either  in  preparing  it  for  cooking,  or  in  trying  to  keep  it  till  the 
next  day. 

In  boiling  fish,  put  it  in  boiling  water,  and  simmer  very 
slowly.  It  will  require  an  hour  to  boil  a  large  fish,  and  about 
twenty  minutes  for  a  small  one.  Every  housekeeper  should 
have  a  fish-kettle  for  fish. 

Be  careful  to  have  boiling-hot  lard  in  the  frying-pan  when 
you  go  to  fry  fish.  First  rub  salt  and  pepper  and  flour  or  meal 
on  the  fish,  then  keep  it  well  covered  while  frying,  as  you 
should  do  to  every  thing  that  is  being  fried.  Doing  this  will 
enable  you  to  fry  the  fish  (or  other  article  of  food)  a  pretty 
amber  color,  while  at  the  same  time  it  will  be  perfectly  done. 

Always  have  a  tin  sheet  for  lifting  boiled  fish  and  for  turn- 
ing broiled  fish.     Before  broiling,  rub  with  pepper  and  s«lt, 


98  FISH   A   LA   CREME HALIBUT. 

and  then  grease  with  fresh  butter.  Lay  the  fish  on  a  gridiron 
well  greased  with  sweet  lard  and  lay  the  tin  sheet  over  it. 
When  you  wish  to  turn,  take  the  gridiron  from  the  fire,  hold- 
ing the  tin  sheet  on  top  the  fish.  Hold  them  together,  then  lay 
Ihem  on  a  table  with  the  tin  sheet  down  and  the  gridiron  upper- 
most. Carefully  raise  the  gridiron,  leaving  the  fish  lying  un- 
broken on  the  tin  sheet.  The  cook  may  now  easily  slide  the 
fish  on  the  gridiron,  put  it  again  on  the  fire  and  brown  the 
other  side,  putting  the  tin  sheet  back  on  top  of  it.  Every 
thing  should  be  covered  while  beiug  broiled.  When  done,  lay 
it  on  a  dish  and  pour  over  it  melted  butter  in  which  has  been 
stirred  pepper,  salt,  and  minced  parsley.  If  devilled  fish  is 
desired,  add  to  this  dressing,  one  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar, 
one  of  celery  vinegar,  one  of  walnut  catsup,  one  of  made  mus- 
tard, one  wine-glassful  of  acid  fruit  jelly.  In  making  sauces 
for  fish,  never  use  the  water  in  which  the  fish  has  been  boiled. 

■Full  directions  for  stewing  fish  are  to  be  found  in  the  subse- 
quent pages. 

Fish  1   la   Cr6me. 

Boil  a  firm  fish,  remove  the  bones,  pick  it  to  pieces.  Mix 
one  pint  cream  or  milk  with  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  onion, 
one-half  poiind  butter  (or  less),  and  salt. 

Set  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  is  as  thick  as  custard.  Fill  a 
baking-dish  alternately  with  fish,  cracker,  and  cream.  Bake  for 
thirty  minutes,  use  four  crackers. — Mrs.  TK  O.  R. 

Halibut. 

Boil  one  pound  halibut,  then  chop  it  very  fine  and  add  eighl 
eggs  well  beaten  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  then  one  cup  butter. 

Put  it  in  a  stewpan  and  cook  until  the  eggs  are  done  suffi- 
ciently.    Serve  very  hot  on  toast. — Miss  F,  N. 

Halihut. 
Halibut  should  be  cut  in  slices  of  four  pounds  each.     If  to 


FISH   CHOWDER — CAT-FISH   CHOWDEE   OR  H0G-FI8H.        99 

be  boiled,  cover  "with   salt  water,  and  skim  often ;  drain  oflf  and 
serve  with  butter  sauce. 

If  baked  or  fried,  garnish  with  horseradish  and  serve  with 
melted  butter. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Fry  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  cut  the  fish  in  small  pieces,  pare 
and  slice  the  potatoes,  add  a  little  onion  chopped  fine. 

Place  all  in  layers  in  the  kettle  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Stew  over  a  slow  fire  thirty  minutes. 

Cat-fish  Chowder. 

To  be  made  of  New  River  cat-fish. 

Wash  the  fish  in  warm  water,  put  it  on  in  just  water  enough 
to  cover  it,  boil  until  tender  or  until  the  bones  will  slip  out ; 
take  out  the  largest  bones,  chop  up  the  fish,  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
with  a  pint  of  water,  a  large  lump  of  butter. 

1  cup  of  cream,  pepper  and  not  much  salt. 

1  onion,  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  one-half  teacupful  walnut 
catsup. 

Stew  until  qviite  thick,  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  serve 
hot.— Mrs.  F.  W. 

Cat-fish  Chowder  or  Hog-fish. 
Take  two  cat-fish,  skin,  and  boil  till  thoroughly  done;  pick 
very  fine  and  add  : 

2  good  sized  onions. 

\  pound  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Add  a  little  celery  or  celery-seed,  a  little  thyme,  a  little  pars- 
ley. 

Pour  over  all  about  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  cook  fast 
bout  half  an  hour.— Miss  F.  N. 


100  fish  chowder — baked  sheep's-head. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Take  any  large  fish,  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  lay  some  slices  of 
tat  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot  and  then  a  layer  of  fish, 
onions,  cracker  dust,  red  and  black  pepper,  salt,  and  butter. 

Then  more  layers,  until  you  have  xised  all  the  fish.  Cover  the 
whole  with  water  and  cook  until  well  done. — Mrs.  D. 


Boiled  Sheep's-head. 
Clean  the  fish  and  boil  well  done.     Serve  hot  with  butter 
and  egg  sauce. 

To  Bake  a  Sheep's-head. 
Put  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  lard 
in  a  skillet ;  also,  with  that,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  a  little 
parsley,  one  pint  boiling  water,  a  little  wine,  catsup,  salt,  and 
cayenne  pepper.  Boil  a  few  minutes ;  then  take  four  eggs,  half  a 
pint  cream  or  butter ;  beat  well  together.  Lay  the  fish  in  a 
large  deep  dish,  pour  gravy  from  skillet  over  it;  spread  butter 
over  top  of  fish.  The  bottom  of  the  oven  to  be  quite  hot,  top 
slow. — Miss  E.  W. 

Boiled  Sheep's-head  or  Rock. 
Lay  the  fish  in  a  fish  boiler,  in  a  cloth,  to  prevent  breaking. 
Throw  into  the  water  a  handful  parsley,  and  when  the  fish  is 
done,  lay  some  sprigs  on  it  in  the  dish. — Mrs.  D. 

Baked  Sheep's-head. 
Put  the  fish  in  a  pan  and  cover  with  water ;  put  a  little  par- 
sley, onions,  and  fat  bacon,  chopped  up  together,  black  pepper 
and  salt,  in  the  fish  and  over  it,  and  when  nearly  done,  beat  up 
one  egg  and  a  little  flour,  and  pour  over  it  to  thicken  the 
gravy.  Rock  or  shad  may  be  cooked  the  same  way.— 
Mtb.  D. 


BAKED   sheep's-head — BAKED   BOOK.  101 

Saked  Sheep's-head. 
When  leady  for  cooking,  salt  and  pepper  well,  gash  the  sides 
in  three  or  four  places.  Cut  four  onions  very  fine,  to  which 
add  one  pint  bread  crumbs,  fat  meat  minced  very  fine,  as  it 
suits  better  than  lard,  cayenne  pepper,  thyme,  a  little  salt,  and 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  all  mashed  together,  with  which  stuflf  the 
fish  inside  and  gashes  on  the  outside.  Then  sprinkle  over  with 
flour  and  black  pepper ;  put  into  a  large  pan  with  one  qxiart 
cold  water.  Bake  two  hours,  slowly.  Serve  with  or  without 
sauce,  according  to  taste. — Miss  F.  N. 

Boiled  Rock-fish. 

Clean  the  fish  nicely,  rub  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
into  a  large  deep  pan,  that  it  may  lie  at  full  length ;  cover  with 
cold  water,  adding  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  steadily  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour ;  dish  and  serve  with  melted  butter  and 
sauce  or  catsup. — Miss  F.  N. 

Boiled  Rockrjish. 
Clean  nicely  and  hang  it  up ;  do  not  lay  it  in  water,  but 
wash  it  when  ready  for  cooking.  Put  on  in  boiling  water, 
Seasoning  with  salt  to  taste.  It  takes  two  hours  to  boil,  if 
large.  Serve  with  egg  sauce,  and  send  to  the  table  in  a  napkin 
to  keep  hot. — Mrs.   W. 

To  Stew  Rock-fish. 
Take  a  rock,  clean  and  season  with  parsley,  sweet  marjoram, 
onions,  one-half  pint  water,  salt  to  taste,  one  pint  Port  wine, 
one-half  pound  butter,  and  a  little  flour.  Put  them  in  a  dish, 
and  set  in  a  stewpan.  One  hour  is  sufl&cient  for  cooking. — 
Mrs.  eZ:  T. 

Baked  Rock. 

Boil  the  fish  and  take  out  the  bones.      Season  with  cream, 


102  TO   PICKLE   EOCK — TO   BROIL   SHAD. 

butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  grated  bread  crumbs  over  the  top. 
Bake  slightly  in  a  flat  dish  or  scollop  shells. — Mrs.  H. 

To  Pickle  Rock. 

Cut  a  rock-fish  into  pieces  and  put  in  a  kettle  with  sufficient 
water  to  cover  it.  Put  in  a  handful  of  salt,  some  white  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  allspice,  a  few  cloves  and  mace. 

When  the  fish  is  nearly  done,  add  a  quart  of  vinegar.  In 
putting  away,  use  as  much  liquor  as  will  cover  it. — Mrs.  JT. 

w.  s. 

Baked   Shad. 

Open  the  shad  down  the  back,  wash  well  and  salt  it ;  wipe 
dry  and  rub  inside  and  out  with  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Pre- 
pare a  stuffing  of  bread,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  thyme,  or 
parsley,  celery-seed,  a  little  chopped  onion,  piece  of  butter,  size 
of  a  walnut. 

Tie  up  the  fish  and  put  in  a  baking  pan  with  one  pint  water 
(to  a  good  sized  fish)  and  butter,  size  of  a  hen's  egg.  Sprinkle 
with  flour,  baste  well  and  bake  slowly  an  hour  and  a  half. — 
Mrs.  J.  H.  F. 

To   Fry   Shad. 

Clean  and  hang  in  a  cool  place.  When  ready  to  use  wash 
thoroughly,  cut  up  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  pepper,  salt, 
and  fry  with  lard. — Mrs.  JR . 

To  Roast  Shad. 
Fill  the  inside  with  forcemeat,  sew  it  up  and  tie  it  on  a 
board,  not  pine,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  a  little  salt,  and  pep- 
per, and  place  before  the  fire.  When  done  one  side,  turn  it ; 
when  sufficiently  done,  pull  out  tlie  thread  ;  dish  and  serve  with 
drawn  butter  and  parsley. — Mrs.  D. 

To   Broil   Shad. 
Clean,  wash,  and  split  the  shad,  and  wipe  it  dry. 
Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  it  over  a  clear,  slow 


i 


POTTED    SHAD — STUEGEON   OUTLET.  103 

fire,  with  the  skin  down  so  as  to  retain  the  juice;  put  on  a 
clean  gridiron,  rubbed  with  lard.  Turn  it  when  nearly  done ; 
take  up,  and  season  with  a  generous  piece  of  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  8. 

Potted  Shad. 

Gut  the  fish  as  for  frying;  pack  in  a  stone  jar  with  layers  of 
mixed  spices,  seasoning  with  salt;  after  the  jar  is  filled,  pour 
vinegar  over  ;  cover  tightly  with  a  cloth.  Put  the  jar  in  a  large 
pot  of  water  and  boil  until  the  fish  is  thoroughly  done. 

A  nice  reUsh  for  tea. — Mrs.  Q.  L.  T, 

To   Barbecue   a   Shad. 

Split  the  back  of  the  fish,  pepper  and  salb  it,  and  put  on  the 
gridiron  with  the  skin  down. 

Baste  the  upper  side  of  the  fish  with  butter  ;  brown  a  little 
piece  of  butter  with  a  small  quantity  of  flour,  and  when  brown 
add  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  water. 

Dish  in  a  tureen. — Mrs.  tT.   W.  S. 

Scolloped  Sturgeon. 
Four  pounds  sturgeon,  boiled  ;  when  cold,  pick  to  pieces  and 
then  wash  and  squeeze  out  the  water.     Make  a  mayonnaise 
dressing,  using  celery,  cayenne  pepper  instead  of  black  pepper, 
and  salt.     Serve  on  white  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  R.  H. 

Sturgeon  Cutlet. 

Remove  all  the  fat  from  the  fish ;  cut  it  into  steak  pieces. 
Beat  up  the  yolks  of  eggs  enough  to  moisten  the  pieces  well ; 
dip  them  into  the  beaten  egg.  Have  ready  a  dish  of  grated 
bread  crumbs  (stale  bread  is  best),  then  roll  them  in  the  bread 
crumbs  and  pepper  them  well. 

Prepare  a  vessel  of  melted  lard,  have  it  boiling  hot,  but  not 
burnt ;  lay  m  the  pieces  of  fish  and  cover  with  a  lid.     Turn 


104  STLTKGEON   OK    DRUM COD-FISH    BALLS. 

fchem  over  as  they  brown  and  remove  the  lid  when  they  are 
nearly  done. — Mrs.  Dr.  P.    C. 

Sturgeon  or  Drum. 

Slice  it  like  beefsteak,  and  roll  in  a  thin  egg  batter,  and  frv 
in  hot  lard. 

Chopped  parsley  and  black  pepper  may  be  added,  if  liked. — 
Mrs.  X>.,  Suffolk. 

Baked  Sturgeon 

Wash  the  skin  well,  put  in  a  pan  and  bake  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Then  take  it  out  on  a  dish  ;  pierce  it  with  a  knife 
in  several  places.  Make  a  stuffing  of  pot-meat,  bread  crumbs, 
onions,  parsley,  thyme,  pepper,  and  salt,  all  chopped  well 
together.  Stuff  the  holes  with  the  mixture  and  put  the  rest  in 
the  gravy ;  return  to  the  pan  and  bake  until  done, — Mrs.  D. 

To  Fry  Perch. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  dredge  with  flour ;  after  a  while  dredge 
with  flour  the  other  side.     When  the  lard  boils  hard,  skim  it 
well  and  put  in  the  fish.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Wi 

To  Fry  Trout, 
Split  the  fish  down  the  back,  insert  a  thin  slice  of  fat  pork. 
Squeeze  lemon  juice  over  it  and  fry  brown. — Mrs.  J]  I.,  La. 

Boiled  Cod-fish. 
Boil  over  a  slow  fii-e  and  skim  frequently.     Season  with  salt. 
Garnish  with  parsley  and  rings  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  serve 
with  butter  and  egg-sauce. 

Cod-fish  Balls. 
One-fourth  fish,   to  three-fourths    potatoes,   eggs  enough  to 
moisten.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  brown. 


nantucket  cod-fish — to  broil  mackekel.         105 

Nantucket  Cod-fish. 
Out  the  thick  part  out  of  a  firm,  white  dried  codfish,  and  soak  it 
over  night,  then  cut  into  very  small  pieces  and  parboil  for  a  few 
minutes,  changing  the  water  until  the  fish  remains  but  slightly 
salted.  Drain  ofi"  the  water,  leaving  the  fish  in  the  saucepan. 
Pour  over  a  little  more  milk  than  will  cover  it ;  when  it  becomes 
heated,  add  a  little  butter  and  pepper,  thicken  with  flour  stii'red 
smooth  in  milk.     Stir  constantly  for  a  few  minutes. 

To  Dress  Salt  Cod-fish. 
Take  one-third  of  a  large  fish ;  soak  it  from  three  to  four 
hours ;  next,  boiling  it  till  thoroughly  done,  pick  the  meat  fine, 
taking  out  all  the  bones.     Then  add  : 

3  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine. 
3  to  4  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed. 
Mix  all  well  together  in  a  stewpan,  with — 
1  teacup  of  hot  water. 
Salt  and  mustard  to  the  taste. 
Boil   half  an   hour,  and  add  a  liberal   supply  of  butter  just 
before  serving.      If  preferred,  the  salt  and  mustard  need  not  be 
put  in  until  during  the  cooking. — Mrs.  A.    G. 

Boiled  Mackerel. 
Well  wash  the  fish,  put  it  into  nearly  boiling  water  with  one 
tablespoonful  salt  in  it ;  boil  up  quickly,  then  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  if  the  fish  be  very  large,  a 
few  minutes  longei*.     Serve  in  a  hot  dish. — Mrs.  £. 

To  Broil  Mackerel. 
If  the  mackerel  is  fresh,  after  it  is  nicely  scaled  and  cleaned, 
dry  it ;  pepper  and  salt  and  broil  it  on  a  gridiron  ;  baste  it  with 
fresh  butter.  After  it  is  broiled,  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
melted  butter  over  it,  and  serve.  If  the  fidh  is  salt,  pour  boil- 
ing water  over  it,  soak  it  several  hours ;  butter  and  pepper,  and 
broil ;  serve  in  the  same  way  as  the  fresh. — Mrs.  M. 


106  TO   COOK    SALT  MACKEREL — SALMON    STEAK. 

To  CooK  Salt  Mackerel. 
Soak  the  fist  over  night  in  fresh  water.     In  the  morning 
drain  off  the  water  and  place  on  a  gridiron  to  broil,  dressing 
with  hot  butter. — Mrs.  T. 

Baked  Salmon. 
When  washed  and  dried,  sprinkle  over  pepper  and  salt. 
Have  ready  in  a  baking-pan  a  small  grating ;  lay  the  fish  on 
this,  with  bits  of  butter  over  it ;  set  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  often 
and  freely  with  butter.  When  nicely  browned,  butter  a  sheet 
of  white  paper  and  lay  over  it,  to  prevent  its  getting  too  dry ; 
when  done  and  tender,  place  on  a  hot  dish.  Add  to  the  gravy 
one  teacupful  milk,  one  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar,  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  mashed  Irish  potato  smoothly  mixed  in ;  boil,  and 
pour  over  the  fish.  Sift  over  all  browned  cracker.  Garnish 
with  bleached  tops  of  celery  and  curled  parsley  alternately. — 
Mrs.  T. 

Boiled  Salmon. 

After  the  fish  has  been  cleaned  and  washed,  dry  it  and  sew  it 
up  in  a  cloth ;  lay  it  in  a  fish-kettle,  cover  with  warm  water, 
and  simmer  until  done  and  tender.  Meanwhile  have  ready 
in  a  saucepan  one  pint  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  fresh  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  minced  parsley,  and  thyme ;  let  it  boil  up  once, 
not  too  quickly.  Take  the  fish  from  the  kettle,  carefully  unwi-ap 
it,  lay  it  for  a  moment  on  a  folded  napkin  to  dry.  Have  ready 
a  hot  dish,  lay  the  fish  on  it  carefully,  without  breaking  it,  pour 
over  the  cream.  Slice  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  lay  over  the 
fish  alternately  with  sliced  lemon.  Border  the  edges  of  the  dish 
with  curled  parsley. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Salmon  Steak. 
When  well  dried,  pepper  and  salt,  sift  over  powdered  cracker, 
and  lay  ujjon  a  gridiron,  which  has  been  first  greased  vith  but- 
ter or  lard,  over  hot  coals.     As  soon  as  the  side  next  to  the  fire 
is  brown,  turn  it  by  carefully  slipping  under  it  a  batter-cake 


PIOKLED    SALMON — HAUNCH    OF   VENISON.  107 

turner  and  holding  the  fish  on  it  with  the  other  hand,  lest  it 
should  break.  When  both  sides  are  of  a  light  brown,  lay  in  a 
hot  dish ;  pepper  and  salt  again ;  pour  over  melted  butter ; 
place  the  cover  on,  and  serve. — Mrs.  T. 

Pickled   Salmon. 
Soak  the  salmon  twenty-four  hours,  changing  the  water.     Put 
it  in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  vinegar.     When   done    and 
cold,  boil  your  vinegar  with  spice  and  pour  pn  the  fish. — Mrs, 
A.  P. 

German  Fish  Stew. 
Put  the  fish  in  a  kettle  to  boil.  Stew  together  in  a  saucepan 
one  onion  chopped  fine  and  a  wine-glass  of  sweet  oil ;  when  well 
done,  pour  them  in  with  the  fish.  Then  mix  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  juice  of  two  lemons  strained,  one  tablespoonful  sifted  flour. 
Beat  these  well  together,  and  pour  upon  the  fish  when  nearly 
done.  Then  add  ginger,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste ;  stew  three 
or  four  minutes,  after  mixing  all  the  ingredients.  Oysters  may^ 
be  cooked  by  the  same  receipt,  only  substituting  one  quart  oys- 
ters for  the  fish. — Mrs.  A.  D. 


GAME. 

Haunch  of  Yenison. 
Rub  the  venison  over  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Repeat 
the  rubbing.  After  it  has  been  put  in  the  oven,  put  in  as  much 
cold  water  as  will  prevent  burning  and  draw  the  gravy.  Stick 
five  or  six  cloves  in  different  parts  of  the  venison.  Add  enough 
water  to  make  sufficient  gravy.  Just  before  dinner,  put  in  a 
glass  of  red  wine  and  a  lump  of  butter  xolled  in  flour,  and  let 
it  stew  a  little  longer. — Mrs,  T. 


108         venison  haunch to  bakbecue  squikkel. 

Yenison  Haunch. 

Prepare  the  venison  as  you  would  mutton. 

Put  in  a  baking-pan,  lard  with  a  little  bacon,  add  a  pint  of 
water,  a  gill  of  red  wine,  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 
Bake  quickly,  and  serve  with  or  without  gravy. 

Stewed  Venison. 
Cut  in  tolerably  thick   slices.     Put   in   an  oven   with   two 
spoonfuls  of  water  and  a  piece  of  lard.     Cook  till  nearly  done, 
then  pour  off  the  gravy  and  baste  it  well  with  a  large  spoonful 
of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Stewed  Venison. 
Slice  cold  venison  in  a  chafing  dish  and  add — 

A  cup  of  water. 

A  small  teacup  of  red  wine. 

A  small  teacup  of  currant  jelly. 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

A  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard. 

A  little  yellow  pickle. 

A  little  chopped  celery. 

A  little  mushroom  catsup. 

Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  the  taste. 
The  same  receipt  will  answer  for  cold   mutton. — Jifrs.   M. 
L.  0. 

To  Barbecue  Squirrel. 
Put  some  slices  of  fat  bacon  in  an  oven.  Lay  the  squirrels 
on  them  and  lay  two  slices  of  bacon  on  the  top.  Put  them  ir 
the  oven  and  let  them  cook  until  done.  Lay  them  on  a  dish 
and  set  near  the  fire.  Take  out  the  bacon,  sprinkle  one  spoon- 
fal  of  flour  in  the  gravy  and  let  it  brown.  Then  pour  in  one 
teacup  of  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  some  tomato 
or  walnut  catsup.  Let  it  cool,  and  then  pour  it  over  the 
squirrel. 


k0a8t  rabbit — stewed  eabbit.  109 

Roast  Rabbit. 
Stew  the  rabbit.  After  boiling  the  haslet  and  liver,  stew 
them  with  parsley,  thyme,  celery-seed,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 
for  gravy.  Soak  a  piece  of  loaf  bread,  a  short  time,  in  water. 
Mix  with  it  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  some  butter,  for  stuffing ; 
then  soak  it  in  milk  and  cream.  Sprinkle  the  inside  of  the 
rabbit  with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  it  with  the  above  dressing,  sew 
it  up,  and  roast  or  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  S. 

Barbecued  Rabbit. 
Lay  the  rabbit  in  salt  and  water  half  an  hour,  scald  with 
boiling  water,  wipe  dry,  grease  Avith  butter,  and  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  a  little  salt.  Lay  it  on  the  gridiron,  turning  often 
so  that  it  may  oook  through  and  through,  without  becoming 
hard  and  dry.  When  brown,  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  plenti- 
fully on  both  sides,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Set  in 
the  oven,  while  preparing  four  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  of 
made  mustard,  and  one  of  currant  jelly  or  brown  sugar.  Pour 
this  over  the  rabbit,  rubbing  it  in,  then  pour  over  the  gravy 
and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  T. 

Stewed  Rabbit. 
Cut  up  the  rabbit  and  wash  it.  Put  it  in  a  stewpan  and 
season  it  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  in  half  a  pint  of  water, 
and  when  this  has  nearly  stewed  away,  add  half  a  piut  of  Port 
wine,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
mixed  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Let  it  stew  gently 
till  quite  tender,  and  then  serve  hot. — Mrs.  G.  C 

Stewed  Rabhit. 
Cut  a  rabbit  into  eight  pieces.  After  soaking  in  salt  and 
water,  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  slice  of  pork  or  bacon,  and 
with  more  than  enough  water  to  cover  it.  When  nearly  done, 
take  out  the  pieces,  strain  the  water  in  which,  they  have  boiled, 
and  return  all  to  the  stewpan,  with  a  teacup  of  milk,  a  little 


110       WILD  TURKEY — TO  E0A8T  WILD   FOWL  IN  A  8T0VB. 

pepper,  salt,  chopped  onion  and  parsley.  After  this  boils  up, 
stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  in  which  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  has  been  rubbed.  Let  it  boil  up  once  more ;  then 
serve  in  a  covered  dish,  with  four  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  over 
it,  and  grated  bi*ead  crumbs.  The  same  receipt  will  answer  for 
squirrel. — Mrs.  T. 

Wild  Turkey. 
If  the  turkey  is  old,  after  it  is  dressed  wash  it  inside  thor- 
oughly with  soda  and  water.  Rinse  it  and  plunge  it  into  a  pot 
of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Make  a  stuffing  of  bits  of 
pork,  beef,  or  any  other  cold  meat,  plenty  of  chopped  celery, 
stewed  giblets,  hard-boiled  eggs,  pounded  cracker,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  a  heaping  spoonful  of  butter.  Work  this  well  and  fill 
the  turkey.  With  another  large  spoonful  of  butter  grease  the 
bird,  and  then  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over  it.  Lay  in  a  pan, 
with  a  pint  of  stock  or  broth  in  which  any  kind  of  meat  has 
been  boiled.  Place  in  a  hot  oven.  When  it  begins  to  brown, 
dredge  with  flour  and  baste,  turning  often,  so  that  each  part 
may  be  equally  browned.  Put  a  buttered  sheet  of  paj^er  over 
the  breast,  to  prevent  dryness.  When  thoroughly  done,  lay  on 
a  dish,  brown  some  crackers,  pound  and  sift  over  it,  and  serve 
with  celery  or  oyster  sauce. — Mrs.  T. 

A  Simpler  'Way  to  Prepare  Wild  Turlcey. 
Prepare  the  turkey  as  usual,  rub  the  inside  with  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper,  and  put  in  the  baking-pan,  with  water  enough 
to  make  gravy.  Cut  up  the  gizzard  and  liver  with  a  lump  of 
butter  and  a  spoonful  of  cream-.  Mix  with  the  gravy  and  serve 
hot. 

To  Roast    Wild  Fowl  in  a  Stove. 
Put  them  on  a  rack  above  a  pan,  so  that  the  gravy  will  drip 
through.     This  makes  them  as  delicate  as  if  roasted  on  a  spit. 
If  roasted  in  a  pan,  they  will  be  exceedingly  greasy  and  have 


WILD  GOOSE — TO  COOK  WILD  DUCK  FOR  BREAKFAST.      Ill 
the  stovey  taste  to  which   so  many  persons  object. — Mrs.  J. 

w.  s. 

Wild  Goose. 

After  the  goose  is  dressed,  soak  it  several  hours  in  salt  and 
water.  Put  a  small  onion  inside  and  plunge  it  into  boiling 
water  for  twenty  minutes.  Stuff  with  chopped  celery,  chopped 
eggs,  mashed  potatoes,  bits  of  fat  pork  or  other  cold  meat ;  a 
little  butter ;  raw  turnip  grated ;  a  tablespoonful  of  pepper 
vinegar ;  a  little  chopped  onion  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

A  teacup  of  stock  or  broth  must  be  put  in  the  pan  with  the 
fowl.  Butter  it,  dredge  with  flour,  and  baste  often.  Pin  a 
buttered  paper  over  the  breast  to  prevent  its  becoming  hard. 
Serve  with  mushroom  or  celery  sauce,  or,  for  a  simpler  taste, 
serve  merely  with  its  own  gravy. — Mrs.  T. 

Wild   Goose. 

Put  a  small  onion  inside,  a  slice  of  pork,  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
spoonful  of  red  wine. 

Lay  in  a  pan  with  water  enough  to  make  gravy.  Dredge 
with  flour,  and  baste  with  butter  frequently.  Cook  quickly 
and  serve  with  gravy  made  as  for  wild  turkey. 

Wild  Duck. 

When  the  duck  is  ready  dressed,  put  in  it  a  small  onion, 
pe^jper,  salt,  and  a  spoonful  of  red  wine.  Lay  in  a  pan  with 
water  enough  to  make  the  gravy.  Cook  in  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  if  the  fire  is  brisk.  Serve  with  gravy  made  as  for 
wild  turkey. 

Canvas-back  ducks  are  cooked  in  the  same  way,  only  you 
leave  on  their  heads  and  do  not  use  onion  with  them. — Mrs. 
H.Z.O. 

To  Cook  Wild  Duck  for  Sreakfast. 
Split  open  in  the  back,  put  in  a  pan  with,  a  little  water,  bnt- 


112  TO   BROIL    PARTRroOES — TO   BROIL   PIGEONS. 

Ler,  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  till  tender.     Baste  with  flour.  If 
for  dinner,  cook  whole. — Mrs.  J'.  L.  C 

To  Broil  Partridges. 
Place  them  in  salt  and  water,  an  hour  or  two  before  broiling. 
When  taken  out,  wipe  them  dry,  and  rub  them  all  over  with 
fresh  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  First  broil  the  under  or  split 
side  on  the  gridiron,  over  bright,  clear  coals,  turning  until  the 
upper  side  is  of  a  fine,  light  brown.  It  must  be  cooked  prin- 
cipally from  the  under  side.  When  done,  rub  well  again  with 
fresh  butter  and  if  not  ready  to  serve  them  immediately,  put 
them  in  a  large  shallow  tin  bucket,  cover  it  and  set  it  over  a 
pot  or  kettle  of  boiling  water,  which  will  keep  them  hot  with- 
out making  them  hard  or  dry  and  will  give  time  for  the  many 
"  last  things  "  to  be  done  before  serving  a  meal.  When  served, 
sift  over  them  powdered  cracker,  first  browned. — Mrs.  T. 

To  Roast  Partridges. 
Clean  the  birds  as  for  stuffing.     Rub  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.     Put  in  sheets  of  letter  paper  and  allow  to  cook  in  this 
way. — Mrs.  W.  C. 

To  Cook  Partridges  and  Pheasants. 

Place  them  in  a  steamer,  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  till 
tender. 

Have  ready  a  saucepan  of  large  fresh  oysters,  scalded  just 
enough  to.  make  them  plump  and  seasoned  with  pepper-sauce, 
butter,  and  a  little  salt.  Rub  the  cavity  of  the  birds  with  salt 
and  pepper,  fill  with  oysters  and  sew  up.  Broil  till  a  light 
brown.  Place  on  a  hot  dish  and  sift  over  them  browned 
cracker.  Add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  of 
pounded  cracker  to  the  oyster  liquor.  Boil  it  up  once  and 
pour  into  the  dish,  but  not  over  the  birds. — Mrs.  T. 

To  Broil  Pigeons. 
Pigeons  may  be  broiled  the  same  as  chickens,  only  cover  the 


TO  COOK  SORA,  ORTOLANS.  AND  OTHER  SMALL  JtJIRDS.      113 

breast  with  slices  of  bacon.  When  nearly  done,  remove  the 
bacon,  dredge  with  flour  and  baste  with  butter.  They  will  be 
done  in  half  an  hour. 

Stewed  Pigeons. 
The  pigeons  must  be  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  cloves,  mace 
and  sweet  herbs.  Wrap  the  seasoning  up  in  a  piece  of  butter 
and  put  it  in  the  pigeon.  Then  tie  up  the  neck  and  vest  and 
half  roast  the  pigeons.  Then  put  them  in  a  stewpan  vnth.  a 
quart  of  good  gravy,  a  little  white  wine,  some  pickled  mush- 
rooms, a  few  peppercorns,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  a  bit 
of  lemon  peel,  a  bit  of  onion  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 
Stew  until  done,  then  thicken  with  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs. 
Garnish  with  lemon. 

Pigeon  Pie. 

Take  six  young  pigeons.  After  they  are  drawn,  trussed,  and 
singed,  stuff  them  with  the  chopped  livers  mixed  with  parsley, 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Cover  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  with  rather  small  pieces  of  beef.  On  the  beef,  place  a 
thin  layer  of  chopped  parsley  and  mushrooms,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Over  this  place  the  pigeons,  between  each 
putting  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg.  Add  some  brown  sauce 
or  gravy.  Cover  with  puff  paste  and  bake  the  pie  for  an  hour 
and  a  half.— ilfrs.  C.  O. 

To  Dress  Reed  Birds. 
Pick  open  and  carefully  wash  one  dozen  or  more  birds. 
Place  them  between  the  folds  of  a  towel,  and  with  a  rolling-pin 
mash  the  bones  quite  flat.  Season  with  salt  and  a  littlo 
cayenne  and  black  pepper.  Either  fry  or  broil  on  a  gridiron 
made  for  broiling  oysters.  This  must  be  done  over  a  clear  fire. 
When  done,  season,  put  a  lump  of  butter  on  each  bird  and 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

To  Cook  Sora,  Ortolans,  and  Other  Small  Birds. 

Prepare  as  you  would  a  chicken  for  roasting.     Lay  in  a  par 

10 


114:  MEATS. 

and  pour  boiling  water  over  them  or,  if  convenient,  steani  them. 
Scald  a  few  large  fresh  oysters  till  just  plump,  season  them  with 
cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  butter.  Pour  into  the  cavity  of  each 
bird  a  few  drops  of  pepper-sauce  and  then  put  a  large  oyster  in 
each.  Broil  a  short  time,  frequently  turning  that  they  may  not 
become  dry.  If  not  ready  to  serve  them  as  soon  as  they  are 
done,  lay  in  a  tin  bucket,  butter  them  and  sprinkle  them 
again  with  black  pepper,  cover  the  bucket  and  set  it  over  boil- 
ing water  till  wanted.  When  laid  in  the  dish,  sift  browned 
cracker  over  the  birds,  and  pour  gravy  into  the  dish. — 
Mrs.  T. 

To  Cook  /Sara,  Ortolans,  and  Other  Small  JBirds. 
After  they  are  split  open  in  the  back  and  dressed,  lay  them 
in  weak  salt  and  water  for  a  short  time.  Then  lay  them  on  a 
board  and  roll  with  a  rolling-pin  to  flatten  the  breastbone. 
Put  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  on  them.  Lay  them  on  a  gridiron 
and  broil  slowly.  When  just  done,  add  more  butter  and  pep- 
per, lay  in  a  flat  tin  bucket,  which  set  over  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water  to  keep  the  birds  hot,  juicy,  and  tender  till  wanted. — 
Mrs.  T. 

SoRA,  Ortolans,  Robins,  and  Other  Small  Birds. 
They  should  be  carefully  cleaned,  buttered,  sprinkled  with 
jiepper  and  salt,  and  broiled.  When  they  are  served,  butter 
them  again.  If  you  like,  serve  each  bird  on  a  piece  of  toast, 
and  pour  over  them  a  sauce  of  red  wine,  mushroom  catsup, 
salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and  celery. 


MEATS. 

All  meats  are  better  in  winter  for  being  kept  several  weeks, 
and  it  is  well,  in  summer,  to  keep  them  as  long  as  you  can  with 


MEATS.  116 

out  danger  of  their  being  tainted.  If  it  is  not  in  your  power  to 
keep  meat  in  an  ice-house,  in  summer,  keep  it  in  a  cool  dark  cellar, 
wi-apped  around  with  wet  cloths,  on  top  of  which  lay  boughs  of 
elderberry.  The  evaporation  from  the  cloth  will  keep  the  meat 
cool  and  the  elderberry  will  keep  off  insects. 

If  you  should  unfortunately  be  obliged  to  use  stale  meat  or 
poultry,  rub  it  in  and  out  with  soda,  before  washing  it.  Tough 
meats  and  poultry  are  rendered  more  tender  by  putting  a  little 
vinegar  or  a  few  slices  of  lemon  in  the  water  in  which  they  are 
boiled.  The  use  of  an  acid  will  save  time  and  fuel  in  cooking 
them  and  will  render  them  more  tender  and  digestible. 

If  possible,  keep  the  meat  so  clean  that  it  will  not  be  neces- 
sary to  wash  it,  as  water  extracts  the  juices.  When  it  is  fro- 
zen, lay  it  in  cold  water  to  thaw,  and  then  cook  quickly,  to  pre- 
vent its  losing  its  moisture  and  sweetness. 

In  roasting  or  boiling,  use  but  little  salt  at  first,  as  it  hardens 
meat  to  do  otherwise.  In  roasting,  baste  frequently,  to  prevent 
che  meat  from  hardening  on  the  outside,  and  try  to  preserve  the 
juices.  If  possible,  roast  the  meat  on  a  spit  before  a  large,  open 
fire,  after  using  salt,  pepper,  butter  or  lard,  and  dredging  with 
flour.  Where  an  open  fire-place  cannot  be  obtained,  however, 
the  meat  may  be  well  roasted  in  a  stove  or  range.  Mutton, 
pork,  shote  and  veal  should  be  well  done,  but  beef  should  be 
cooked  rare. 

In  boiling,  put  on  salt  meat  in  cold  water,  but  fresh  meat  in 
hot.  Remember  also  that  salt  meat  requires  more  water  and  a 
longer  time  to  cook  than  fresh.  Boil  slowly,  removing  the  scum 
that  rises  when  it  begins  to  simmer.  Keep  a  tea-kettle  of  boil- 
ing water  at  hand  to  replenish  the  water  in  the  pot,  as  it  boils 
away.  Do  not  let  the  meat  boil  too  hard  or  too  long,  as  this 
will  toughen  it  and  extract  tlie  juices.  Add  salt  ;;o  fresh  meat, 
just  before  it  is  done. 

Lardering  beef,  veal,  and  poultry  is  a  great  improvement, 
keeping  it  moist  whilst  cookiug  and  adding  richness  to  the  fla- 
vor.    Lardering  consists  in  introducing  slips  of  clear  fat  bacon 


116  HOW   TO   SELECT   MEATS. 

or  salt  pork,  into  the  surface  of  meat,  by  means  of  a  pin,  sharp 
at  one  end  and  cleft  into  four  divisions  at  the  other.  This  pin 
may  be  obtained  at  any  hardware  store. 

As  the  housekeeper  is  sometimes  hurried  in  preparing  a  dish^ 
it  will  save  time  and  trouble  for  her  to  keep  on  hand  a  bottle 
of  meat-flavoring  compounded  of  the  following  ingredients. 

2  chopped  onions. 

3  pods  of  red  pepper  (chopped). 
2  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  celery  seed, 

1  tablespoonful  ground  mustard. 

1  teaspoonful  turmeric. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Put  all  in  a  quart  bottle  and  fill  it  up  with  cider  vinegar.  A 
tablespoonful  of  this  mixed  in  a  stew,  steak,  or  gravy,  will  im- 
part not  only  a  fine  flavor,  but  a  rich  color.  Keeping  this  mixt- 
ure on  hand  will  obviate  the  necessity  of  the  housekeeper  look- 
ing through  various  spice  boxes  and  packages  to  get  together 
the  requisite  ingredients  for  flavoring,  and  will  thus  save  her 
time  and  trouble. 

How  TO  Select  Meats, 
Good  and  wholesome  meat  should  be  neither  of  a  pale  rosy  or 
pink  color,  nor  of  a  deep  purple.  The  first  denotes  the  diseased 
condition,  the  last  proves  the  animal  has  died  a  natural  death. 
Good  meat  has  more  of  a  marble  look,  in  consequence  of  the 
branching  of  the  veins  which  surround  the  adipose  cells.  The 
fat,  especially  of  the  inner  organs,  is  always  firm  and  suety  and 
never  moist,  while  in  general  the  fat  from  diseased  cattle  is 
flabby  and  watery  and  more  often  resembles  jelly  or  boiled 
parchment.  Wholesome  meat  will  always  show  itself  firm  and 
elastic  to  the  touch,  and  exibit  no  dampness,  while  bad  meal 
will  appear  soft  and  moist,  in  fact,  often  more  wet,  so  tliat  the 
liquid   substance  runs   out  of  the  blood  when  pressed   hapi. 


OBSERVATIONS   ON   POKK,    CURING   BACON,   irc.         117 

Good  meat  has  very  little  smell  and  diffuses  a  certain  medicinal 
odor.  This  can  be  distinctly  proved  by  cutting  the  meat  through 
with  a  knife  and  smelling  the  blade  or  pouring  water  over  it. 
Lastly,  bad  meat  has  the  peculiarity  that  it  shrinks  considera- 
bly in  the  boiling,  wholesome  meat  rather  swells  and  does  not 
lose  an  ounce  in  weight. 

Observations  on  Pork,  Curing  Bacon,  etc. 
Hogs  weighing  from  150  to  200  pounds  are  the  most  suitable 
size  for  family  use.  They  should  not  exceed  twelve  months  in 
age,  as  they  are  much  more  tender  from  being  young.  They 
should  be  well  kept  and  should  be  corn-fed  several  weeks  before 
being  killed.  After  being  properly  dressed,  they  should  hang 
long  enough  to  get  rid  of  the  animal  heat.  When  they  are 
ready  to  be  cut  up,  they  should  be  divided  into  nine  principal 
parts,  two  hams,  two  shoulders,  two  middlings,  the  head  or  face, 
jowl  and  chine.  The  hog  is  laid  on  its  back  to  be  cut  up.  The 
head  is  cut  off  just  below  the  ears,  then  it  is  split  down  on  each 
side  of  the  backbone,  which  is  the  chine.  This  is  divided  into 
three  pieces,  the  upper  portion  being  a  choice  piece  to  be  eaten 
cold.  The  fat  portion  may  be  cut  off  to  make  lard.  Each  half 
should  then  first  have  the  leaf  fat  taken  out,  which  is  done  by 
cutting  the  thin  skin  between  it  and  the  ribs,  when  it  is  easily 
pulled  out.  Just  under  this,  the  next  thing  to  be  removed  is 
the  mousepiece  or  tenderloin,  lying  along  the  edge,  from  which 
the  backbone  was  removed,  commencing  at  the  point  of  the 
ham.  This  is  considered  the  most  delicate  pa^t  and  is  used  to 
make  the  nicest  sausage.  Just  under  this  tenderloin  are  some 
short  ribs  about  three  inches  long,  running  up  from  the  point  of 
the  ham  which  are  known  as  the  griskin.  This  is  removed  by  a 
sharp  knife  being  run  under  it,  taking  care  to  cut  it  smooth  and 
not  too  thick.     When  broiled,  it  is  as  nice  as  a  partridge. 

The  ribs  are  next  taken  out  of  the  shoulder  and  middling, 
though  some  persons  prefer  leaving  them  in  the  middling.  In 
this  case  seven  should  be  taken  from  the  shoulder,  by  a  sharp 


118  OBSERVATIONS    ON   PORK,    CURING   BACON,    ETC. 

knife  cutting  close  to  the  ribs,  which  make  a  delicious  broil. 
Then  cut  off  the  ham  as  near  the  bone  as  possible,  in  a  half 
circle.  The  shoulder  is  then  cut  square  across  just  behind  the 
leg.  The  feet  are  then  chopped  off  with  a  sharp  axe  or  cleaver. 
From  the  shoulder,  they  should  be  cut  off  leaving  a  stump  of 
about  two  inches.  From  the  ham,  they  should  be  cut  off  at  the 
joint,  as  smoothly  as  possible,  and  then  you  may  proceed  to  salt 
the  meat. 

In  order  to  impart  redness  to  the  hams,  rub  on  each  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pulverized  saltpetre  before  salting.  If  the  weather 
is  very  cold,  warm  the  salt  befoi'e  applying  it.  First  rub  the 
skin  side  well  with  salt  and  then  the  fleshy  side,  using  for  the 
purpose  a  shoe-sole  or  leather  glove.  No  more  salt  should  be 
used  than  a  sufficiency  to  preserve  the  meat,  as  an  excess  hard- 
ens the  meat.  A  bushel  of  salt  is  sufficient  for  a  thousand 
pounds  of  meat.  For  the  chine  and  ribs  a  very  light  sprinkling 
of  salt  will  suffice. 

The  meat  as  salted  should  be  packed  with  the  skin  side  down, 
where  it  should  remain  from  four  to  six  weeks,  according  to  the 
weather.  If  the  weather  is  mild,  four  weeks  will  answer. 
Should  the  weather  be  very  cold  and  the  pork  in  an  exposed 
place,  it  will  freeze,  and  the  salt,  failing  to  penetrate  the  meat, 
will  be  apt  to  injure  it. 

After  it  has  taken  salt  sufficiently,  the  old  Virginia  mode  is 
to  break  the  bulk,  shake  off  the  salt,  rub  the  joint  pieces  (hams 
and  shoulders)  with  good,  green-wood  ashes  (hickory  preferred). 
Then  rebulk  it  and  let  it  remaiu  two  weeks  longer,  when  it 
should  be  hung  up  with  the  joints  down  and  the  other  pieces 
may  be  liung  up  for  smoking  at  the  same  time.  It  is  not  neces- 
sary that  the  smoke-house  should  be  very  tight,  but  it  is  impor- 
tant that  the  poi-k  should  not  be  very  close  to  the  fire. 

A  smothered  fire  made  of  small  billets  of  wood  or  chips  (hick- 
ory preferred),  or  of  corn  cobs,  should  be  made  up  three  times 
a  day  till  the  middle  of  March  or  first  of  April,  when  the  joint 
pieces  should  be  taken  down  and  packed  in  hickory  or  othej 


POKE   STEAK SPAEE-EIBS.  119 

groen-wood  ashes,  as  in  salt,  where  they  will  remain  all  the  sum- 
mer without  danger  of  bugs  interfering  with  them. 

This  recipe  has  been  obtained  from  an  old  Virginia  family, 
famous  for  their  skill  in  this  department  of  housekeeping. 
This  mode  of  curing  makes  the  best  bacon  in  the  world,  far 
superior  to  what  are  generally  called  Virginia  cured  hams. 

Shoat  (which  I  must  explain  to  the  uninitiated  is  a  term  ap- 
plied in  the  South  to  a  young  pig  past  the  age  when  it  may  be 
cooked  whole)  should  be  kept  up  and  fattened  on  buttermilk, 
several  weeks  before  being  killed,  as  this  makes  the  flesh  ex- 
tremely delicate.  It  is  best  killed  when  between  two  and  three 
months  old.  It  should  then  be  divided  into  four  quarters.  It 
is  more  delicate  and  wholesome  eaten  cold. 

Pork  Steak. 

Remove  the  skin,  beat  without  breaking  into  holes  ;  scald 
with  boiling  water,  wipe  dry  and  broil.  When  brown  lay  in  a 
hot  dish.  Sprinkle  over  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sage,  ciiopped 
onion,  and  parsley  ;  then  butter  profusely. 

Grate  over  all  hard  biscuit  or  crackers  that  have  been  browned 
and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Spare-kibs. 
Pork  chop  and  pork  cutlet  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way, 
omitting  the  onion  if  not  liked. — Mrs.  T. 

Pork  Spare-rib. 
With  stuffing   of  sage  and  onions,    roasted  spare-rib,  done 
over  the  potatoes,  affords  a  good  substitute  for  goose. 

Spare  RIBS. 
A.lways  parboil  spare-ribs  :  then  broil  with  pepper  and  salt  • 
cut  in  pieces  three  or  four  bones  each. — Mrs.  W. 

Siyare-JRibs. 
Cut  them  into  pieces  of  two  or  three   ribs  each ;  put  them 


120       TO  COOK  BPARB-KIBS  AND  GKI8KIN  OE  SHORT  BIBS. 

into  a  covered  sstewpan  and  boil  or  stew  until  perfectly  done. 
Just  before  you  take  them  out,  add  salt,  pepper,  and  minced 
parsley. 

Put  on  the  cover  and  simmer  until  well  seasoned. 

Take  them  out  of  the  pan,  drain  and  dry  them.  For  one 
moment  let  them  scorch  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bed  of  hot  coals ; 
lay  on  a  hot  dish  ;  butter  each  one ;  pepper  added ;  sift  over 
browned  cracker  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Cook  Spare-ribs  and  Griskin  or  Short-ribs. 
Put  them  on  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  boil  for  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes.  Gash  them  with  a  knife  ;  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  put  them  on  a  hot  gridiron  as  near  the  fire  as  possi- 
ble ;  broil  quickly,  but  not  too  brown.  Have  some  butter 
melted  and  pour  over  the  meat  and  shut  it  up  in  the  dish. 
These  are  good  for  breakfast. — Mrs.  P.   W. 

To  Cook  Backbone  or  Chine. 

Cut  the  chine  in  three  pieces ;  the  large  end  must  be  about 
a  foot  long,  the  remainder  cut  in  half.  Put  it  in  a  pot  of 
water  and  boil  for  two  hours  ;  then  put  it  in  a  pan,  baste  and 
set  it  in  the  stove  to  brown.  Peel  some  Irish  potatoes  and  put 
them  in  the  pot ;  boil  till  done,  mash  them  up  and  season  with 
pepper,  a  little  salt,  and  some  of  the  gravy  dripping  out  of  the 
chine  while  baking ;  spread  them  in  the  dish,  then  lay  the  chine 
on  top.  The  largest  piece  is  generally  put  aside  to  eat  cold, 
and  is  very  nice.  Turnips  are  good,  cooked  in  the  same  wayoas 
potatoes,  with  the  chine. 

The  chine  and  ham  of  a  hog  are  nice,  corned  like  beef. —  Mrs. 

P.  w. 

Backbone  Pie. 

Take  the  smallest  end  of  the  backbone,  cut  in  pieces  two  or 
three  inches  long ;  put  in  water  and  boil  until  done.  Make 
nice  rich  pastry  as  for  chicken  pie ;  line  the  sides  of  a  baking 
dish  with  the  pastry,  put  in  the  bones,  adding  some  water  in 


TO  COOK  A  HAM  OF  POKK — KOAST  CHINE.      121 

whicli  they  were  boiled  ;  also  salt,  butter,  and  pepper  to  taste, 
with  bits  of  pastry. 

Cover  top  of  baking-dish  with  pastry ;  put  in  stove  and 
brown  nicely. — Mrs.  G.  B, 

To  Cook  a  Ham  of  Pork. 

Wash  off  the  salt  and  put  it  in  a  pot  of  water ;  boil  from 

four  to  six  hours,  according  to  size.     Do  not  take  off  the  skin, 

as  it  preserves  the  juice  and  is  much  better  cold.     It  is  also 

nice  to  slice  and  broil  with   pepper  and  butter  over  it. — Mrs. 

P.  w. 

Leg  of  Pork  Stuffed. 

Make  deep  incisions  in  the  meat  parallel  to  the  bone,  trim  it 
so  as  to  leave  the  skin  longer  than  the  flesh  ;  then  boil  some  pota- 
toes, and  when  they  are  done,  mash  them  with  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  an  onion  finely  chopped,  and  a 
little  rubbed  sage. 

With  this  dressing  fill  the  incisions,  draw  the  skin  down  and 
skewer  it  over  to  keep  the  dressing  from  falling  out.  Season 
the  outside  of  the  meat  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  sage. 

Roast  it  slowly;  when  done,  pour  the  gravy  in  a  pan,  skim 
off  the  fat  and  add  some  browned  flour  wet  in  a  little  cold 
water,  and  boil  up  once. 

Serve  with  apple  or  cranberry  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D, 

To  Dress  Chine. 

Rub  the  lai-ge  end  with  salt  and  saltpetre,  and  it  will  keep 
some  time,  or  you  may  boil  it  fresh.  Cut  the  bones  of  the 
other  end  apart,  sprinkle  with  flour  and  a  little  salt :  add  one 
teacup  of  water,  and  stew. 

It  will  make  two  large  dishes. — Mrs.  W. 

Roast  Chine. 
Chine  should  always  be  parboiled  and  stewed  before  roasting, 
to  take  away  the  gross  taste  which  the  melted  fat  frying  firom 

11 


122  PORK   EOTAIi — SAUSAGE  MEAT. 

it  gives.  After  this  lay  in  the  pan  with  one  pint  water  in 
which  it  was  boiled,  from  which  all  the  fat  has  been  skimmeil. 
Put  in  this  several  whole  leaves  of  sage,  to  be  removed  before 
serving — just  to  get  the  flavor ;  minced  onion,  and  parsley. 

Baste  and  brown  quickly  that  it  may  not  dry. 

This  is  only  stewed  chine  browned. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Pork  Eoyal. 
Take  a  piece  of  shoulder  of  fresh  pork,  fill  with  grated  bread 
and  the  crust  soaked,  pepper,  salt,  onion,  sage  and  thyme :  a 
bit  of  butter  and  lard.  Place  in  a  pan  with  some  water ;  when 
about  half  done,  place  around  it  some  large  apples  ;  when  done, 
place  your  pork  on  a  dish,  with  the  apples  round  it ;  put  flour 
and  water  on  your  pan,  flour  browned,  some  thyme  and  sage ; 
boil,  strain  through  a  very  small  colander  over  your  pork  and 
apples. 

Seasoning  for  Sausage. 

18  pounds  meat. 

9  pounds  back  fat. 

2  ounces  sage. 

4  ounces  black  pepper. 
12  ounces  salt.  '  — Mrs.'tT.  P, 

Excellent  Recipe  for  Sausage. 
12.  pounds  of  the  lean  of  the  chine. 
6  pounds     "    "  fat. 

5  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

6  "  sage. 

2  "  thyme. 
6             "  pepper. 

3  "  sweet  marjoram. 
Mix  well  together. — Mrs.  S.  M. 

Sausage  Meat. 
25  pounds  lean  pieces  cut  from  the  shoulder  and  tender* 
loin. 


SWEETBREAD   OF   HOG — SOUSE   CHEESE.  123 

15  pounds  fat  from  the  back  of  the  chine. 
1  pound  salt ;  a  half  pound  of  black  pepper. 
4  ounces  allspice. 
1  ounce  sage. 
Cut  the  fat  in  small  pieces  and  then  chop  it ;  chop  the  lean 
very  fine  :  mix  all  together,  kneading  in  the  seasoning.     Press 
it  down  in  small  pots  and  pour  melted  lard  over  the  top.  — Mrs. 
J.D. 

Sweetbread  of  Hog. 
This  nice  morsel  is  between  the  maw  and  ruffle  piece  inside 
of  the  hog.     Put  them  in  soak  for  a  day ;  parboil  them  and 
then  gash  them  and  stew  them  in  pepper,  butter,  one  teacup  of 
milk  and  a  little  vinegar. 

Or  they  are  very  nice  fried  or  broiled, — Mrs.  P.  TT. 

Souse  Cheese. 

Lay  the  meat  in  cold  water  as  cut  from  the  hog.  Let  it  stand 
three  or  four  days,  shifting  the  water  each  day.  Scrape  it  and 
let  it  stand  a  day  or  two  longer,changing  the  water  often,  and  if 
it  should  turn  warm,  pour  a  little  salt  in  the  water.  The  offcen- 
er  it  is  scraped,  the  whiter  will  be  the  souse.  Boil  in  plenty 
of  water  to  cover  it,  replenishing  when  needed.  When  tender 
enough,  put  it  in  milk-warm  water,  and  when  cold  in  salt  water. 
Boil  the  head  until  the  bones  will  almost  fall  out.  Clean  one 
dozen  or  more  ears  and  boil  also ;  while  hot,  chop  very  fine,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Put  in  a  mold  or  bowl  with  a  weight  on  top.  The  feet  may 
be  soused  whole,  or  cut  up  with  the  head  and  ears ;  but  it  is 
not  so  nice.  Clean  them  by  dipping  in  boiling  water  and  scrap- 
ing ;  do  not  hold  them  to  the  fire  to  singe  off  the  hair.  One 
head  and  one  dozen  ears  will  make  a  good-sized  cheese. — • 
Mrs.   W. 

To  Make  Souse  prom  Hog's  Feet. 

As  soon  as  the  hog  is  cleaned,  cut  ofi"  the  feet  and  throw  then? 


124      TO   CUBE   LARD — VIRGINIA   MODE   OF   CtTRING   HAMS. 

in  a  tub  of  cold  water  with  a  handful  of  salt ;  let  them  remain 
covered  in  water  until  you  are  ready  to  clean  them,  which  should 
be  done  as  soon  as  possible,  as  they  will  be  much  whiter.  To 
get  the  hoof  off,  put  the  feet  in  hot  water  (not  above  the  hoof) ; 
as  soon  as  they  get  hot  enough,  slip  a  knife  between  the  foot 
and  hoof,  and  slip  it  off;  then  scrape  the  foot  nicely,  and  throw 
into  a  tub  of  clear  water  ;  do  this  for  several  days.  When  you 
have  scraped  and  changed  the  water  for  a  week,  then  wash  them 
clean  and  put  them  on  to  boil.  First  put  them  in  a  clean  pot 
with  a  thin  gruel  made  of  corn  meal ;  boil  until  half  done. 
Wash  them  off,  and  put  on  in  clear  hot  water,  and  boil  till  done, 
then  take  them  up  and  throw  them  into  a  firkin  of  clean  salt 
and  water  ;  keep  closely  covered  to  prevent  them  from  molding. 
They  are  now  ready  to  fry,  which  should  be  done  by  splitting 
the  foot  in  half  and  fried  in  egg  batter. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

To  Cure  Lard. 

As  soon  as  it  is  taken  from  the  hog,  cut  in  small  pieces,  wash 
clean,  press  out  the  water,  and  put  in  the  pot  to  boil,  with  one 
gallon  of  water  to  a  A'^essel  holding  four  gallons.  Boil  briskly 
until  nearly  done,  or  until  the  cracklins  begin  to  brown,  then 
cook  slowly  to  prevent  burning.  The  cracklins  should  be  of  a 
light  brown  and  crisp,  and  will  sink  to  the  bottom  when  done. 
This  is  Leaf  Lard. 

The  fat  off  of  the  backbone  is  also  very  nice,  done  in  the  same 
way,  and  does  not  reqiiire  soaking,  unless  bloody.  The  fat  from 
the  entrails  can  also  be  made  into  nice  lard  by  soaking  for  a  day 
or  two  in  fresh  water,  changing  it  frequently,  and  throwing  a 
handful  of  salt  in  the  tub  of  water  to  draw  out  the  blood  and 
impurities.  When  ready  to  render,  wash  in  warm  water  twice 
and  boil  in  more  water  than  you  do  for  leaf  lard.  The  crack- 
lins will  not  become  crisp,  but  remain  soft,  and  will  sink  to 
the  bottom ;  they  are  iised  for  making  soap, 

YiRQiNiA  Mode  op  Curing  Hams. 
Put  one  teaspoonful  saltpetre*  on  the  fleshy  side  of  each  ham. 


TO  CUBE  BACON — FOK  CUKENG  HAMS.        125 

Salt  not  too  heavily/  for  five  weeks ;  if  the  weather  is  freezing 
cold,  six  weeks ;  then  brush  the  hams  well,  and  rub  them  with 
hickory  ashes  ;  let  them  lie  for  one  week,  then  hang  and  smoke 
them  for  six  weeks  with  green  hickory  chips.  After  brushing, 
pack  them  in  hickory  ashes  in  a  bulk. — JK7-S.  P.   C.  M. 

To  Cure  Bacon. 
Pack  the  meat  in  salt  and  allow  it  to  remain  five  weeks. 
Then  take  the  hams  up,  wash  ofi",  and  wipe  dry.  Have  some 
sacks  made  of  about  seven-eighths  shirting,  large  enough  to  hold 
the  hams  and  tie  above  the  hock.  Make  a  pot  of  sizing  of 
equal  portions  of  flour  and  corn  meal,  boil  until  thick,  and  dip 
each  sack  until  the  outside  is  well  coated  with  sizing.  Put 
the  hams  in  bags,  and  tie  tight  with  a  strong  twine  and  hang  by 
the  same  in  the  smoke-house. 

Curing  Bacon. 
One  peck  salt  to  five  hundred  pounds  pork.     To  five  gallons 
water : 

4  pounds  salt. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  pint  molasses. 
1  teaspoonful  saltpetre. 
Mix,  and  after  sprinkling  the  fleshy  side  of  the  ham  with  tho 
salt,  pack  in  a  tight  barrel.     Hams  first,  then  shoulders,  mid- 
dlings.    Pour  over  the  brine  ;  leave  the  meat  in  brine  from  four 
to  seven  weeks. — Mrs.  Dr.  J'. 

For  Curing  Hams. 
For  five  hundred  pounds  hams. 

1  peck  and  1^  gallons  fine  Liverpool  salt. 

If  pounds  saltpetre. 

1  quart  hickory  ashes  well  sifted. 

1  quart  molasses. 


126  AN   IMPEOVEMENT   TO    HAMS — TO   BOIL   HAM, 

2  teacups  cayenne  pepper. 

1  teacup  black  pepper. 
Mix  these  ingredients  well  together  in  a  large  tub,  rub  it 
into  each  ham  with  a  brick,  or  something  rough  to  get  it  in 
well.  Pack  in  a  tight,  clean  tub  and  weigh  down.  Let  the 
hams  remain  six  weeks ;  then  take  them  out  and  rub  each  one 
on  the  fleshy  side  with  one  tablespoonful  black  pepper  to  avoid 
skippers.  Hang  in  the  meat  house,  and  smoke  with  green 
hickory  for  from  ten  to  twelve  hours  a  day  for  six  weeks,  not 
suflfering  the  wood  to  blaze.  On  the  1st  of  April,  take  them 
down  and  pack  in  any  coal  ashes  or  pine  ashes  well  slaked. 
Strong  ashes  will  rot  into  the  meat. — Mrs.  R.  M. 

An  Improvement  to  Hams. 
Sometimes  very  good  bacon  is  found  to  be  of  a  bad  color 
when  cooked.  This  may  be  remedied  by  keeping  it .  in  ashes 
(hickory  is  best)  for  a  few  weeks  before  using.  Must  then  be 
hung  up,  with  ashes  adhering,  until  needed.  This  also  prevents 
skippers. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Boil  a  Ham  Weighing  Ten  Pounds. 
Let  it  soak  for  twenty-four  hours,  changing  the  water  two  or 
three  times.  Boil  it  slowly  eight  or  ten  hours  :  when  done,  put 
it  into  a  dish,  as  nearly  as  possible  the  shape  of  a  ham,  taking 
care  first  to  take  out  the  bone — tui-n  the  rind  down.  When 
cold,  turn  it  out  into  a  large  dish,  garnish  with  jelly  and  orna- 
mental paper.     Serve  with  the  rind  on.     To  be  eaten  cold. — 

Mrs.  w.  a  a. 

To   Boil  Ham. 

Put  in  the  water  one  pint  vinegar,  a  bay  leaf,  a  little  thyme, 
and  parsley. 

Boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  if  it  weighs  ten  pounds ;  then 
bake.  Soak  all  hams  twenty-four  hours  before  cooking. — 
Mrs.  M. 


TO    HOIL    HAM — BAKED    HAM    OK   TONGUE.  127 

To  Boil  Ham. 
The  day  before  you  wish  to  boil  a  ham,  scrape,  wash  and 
wipe  it  dry,  and  put  it  in  the  sun.  At  night  put  it  into  water 
and  soak  till  next  morning.  Then  lay  it  with  the  skin  down 
in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  for  five  hours.  If  the 
ham  is  large,  boil  six  hours.  When  perfectly  done  and  tender, 
set  the  boiler  aside,  with  the  ham  and  liquor  undisturbed,  until 
cold.  Then  take  ofi"  the  skin,  sprinkle  black  pepper  over 
thickly,  and  sift  over  crackers  first  browned  and  pounded ;  for 
special  occasions,  place  at  equal  distances  over  the  ham,  scraped 
horseradish  in  lozenge  shape,  and  edged  with  curled  parsley. 
This  mode  keeps  the  ham  juicy. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Baked  Ham. 

First  of  all,  soak  an  old  ham  overnight,  having  first  washed 
and  scraped  it.  Next  morning  put  in  a  boiler  of  milk-warm 
water  with  the  skin  side  down.  Boil  slowly  for  four  or  five 
hours,  according  to  size,  and  if  a  very  large  ham,  six  hours. 
When  done,  set  aside,  the  boiler  with  the  ham  and  liquor  in  it, 
to  remain  until  cold  ;  when  the  skin  must  be  taken  off",  and  it 
must  be  trimmed  of  a  nice  shape.  Sprinkle  over  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  black  pepper.  Lay  the  ham  on  a  grating  or  twist  in  the 
baking-pan,  in  which  pour  a  pint  of  water,  and  set  it  in  a  hot 
oven.  This  mode  prevents  the  frying  so  disagreeable  to  the 
taste.  After  the  ham  is  heated  through,  and  the  pepper  strikes 
in,  sift  over  cracker  ;  return  to  the  oven  and  brown,  then  dec- 
orate with  scraped  horseradish  and  parsley,  and  serve. — 3Irs. 
S.  T. 

Baked  Ham  or  Tongues. 

Boil  the  ham  and  grate  some  powdered  cracker  thickly  over 
it ;  first  rubbing  it  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg.  Bake  with  butter. 
Lay  slices  of  currant  jelly  around  the  tongue,  and  garnish  the 
ham  with  parsley. — Mrs.  R. 


128  BAKED    HAM TO    STUFF    FRESH    CUBED    HAM. 

Haked  Sam. 
Most  persons  boil  ham,  but  it  is  much  better  if  baked  prop- 
erly. Soak  it  for  an  hour  in  clean  water  and  wipe  dry ;  next 
spread  it  all  over  with  a  thin  batter,  put  it  into  a  deep  dish 
with  sticks  under  it  to  keep  it  out  of  the  gravy.  When  it  is 
fully  done,  take  off  the  skin  and  batter  crusted  upon  the  flesh 
side  and  set  it  away  to  cool. — Mrs.  S.  JT.  B. 

Stuffed  and  Baked  Ham. 

After  your  ham  is  boiled,  take  the  skin  off.  Take  pepper,  all- 
spice, cloves  and  mace,  well  pounded;  add  a  little  bread 
crumbs,  and  a  little  brown  sugar ;  mix  with  a  little  butter  and 
water. 

Gash  your  ham  and  take  out  plugs  ;  fill  in  with  the  mixture. 
Rub  the  ham  with  an  egg  beaten,  and  grate  on  bread  crumbs 
and  white  sugar. 

Put  in  the  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  D.  H. 

To  Stuff  Fresh  Cured  Ham. 

Boil  the  ham. 

Take  one-half  pound  grated  cracker  or  bread. 

•^  pound  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  spice. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

3  spoonfuls  sugar. 

Celery-seed  or  celery. 

6  eggs,  beaten  light. 

1  spoonful  mustard. 
Mix  all  well  together  and  moisten  with  cream,  if  too  stiff. 
Whilst  the  ham  is  hot,  make  holes  to  the  bone  and  fill  with  tliis 
mLx;ture.     Put  in  the  stove  to  brown. 


bpickd  ham — bacon  and  greens.  129 

Spiced  Ham. 
Salt  the  hams  for  two  days ;  put  them  in  a  keg  and  for  each 
ham  add : 

■g-  cup  molasses. 
1  tablespoonful  spice. 
1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 
A  pinch  of  saltpetre. 
Let  them  stand  four  days,  turning  each  day,  then  hang  them 
up.— Mrs.  D.  R. 

Broiled  Ham. 
To  have  this  dish  in  a  perfection,  ham  must  first  be  soaked, 
then  boiled  nearly  done,  and  set  aside  to  take  slices  from,  as 
wanted.  Gut  rather  thin,  lay  on  a  gridiron  over  hot  coals ; 
when  hot  through,  lay  on  a  dish,  and  pepjjer  well.  Pour  over 
fresh  butter  melted,  and  serve.  If  a  raw  ham  is  used,  the 
slices  must  be  cut  thicker,  dropped  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  for 
a  few  minutes,  then  broiled  as  above. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Fried  Ham. 
The  slices  are  always  taken  from  a  raw  ham,  but  are  most 
delicate  when  first  simmered  a  short  time :  five  minutes  in  a 
stewpan,  dried  with  a  clean  cloth  and  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan, 
first  removing  the  skin.  The  pan  must  be  hot  enough  to 
scorch  and  brown  both  ham  and  gravy  quickly.  Lay  the 
slices  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  into  the  gravy  half  a  teacup  new 
milk,  pepper,  and  minced  parsley ;  boil  up  and  serve. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

Shoulder  op  Bacon. 

This  piece  is  not  used  until  cured  or  smoked,  it  is  then 
boiled  with  cabbage  or  salad,  as  you  w*ould  the  middling.  It  is 
inferior  to  the  ham  or  middling. — Mrs.  P.   W. 

Bacon  and  Greens. 
Tlie  middling  is  generally  used  for  this  purpose  :  cut  a  piece 
about  a  foot  square,  boil  three  hours. 


130      FKIED    BACON PICKLED    PORK    EQUAL   TO    FEESH. 

Take  a  good  head  of  cabbage,  cut,  quarter,  aud  wash  clean  ; 
press  the  water  out  as  dry  as  you  can.  Boil  them  one  or  two 
hours,  with  half  a  pod  of  red  pepper ;  put  them  on  a  dish  and 
the  middling  on  top.  You  can  fry  the  cabbage  next  day,  and 
make  a  savory  dish,  but  it  does  not  suit  dyspeptics.  The  thin 
part  of  the  middling  is  used  for  frying,  and  is  called  "  breakfast 
bacon."~Jlfrs.  P.   W. 

Fried  Bacon. 
Dip  the  ham  or  slices  of  middling  in  bread  crumbs.     Put  in 
a  frying-pan  with    chojjped   par.sley  and  pepper.     Just  before 
taking    off   the   fire,    pour  to  the  gravy   a   cup   of    cream. — 
Mrs.   W. 

Jowl  and  Turnip  Salad. 

This  is  an  old  Virginia  dish,  and  much  used  in  the  spring  of 
the  year. 

The  jowl,  which  must  have  been  well  smoked,  must  be  washed 
clean,  and  boiled  for  three  hours.  Put  in  the  salad,  and  boil 
half  an  hour ;  if  you  boil  too  long,  it  will  turn  yellow.  It  is 
also  good  broiled  for  breakfast  with  pepper  and  butter  over  it. 

The  jaw-bone  should  be  removed  befoi-e  sending  to  the  table; 
this  is  easily  done  by  running  a  knife  around  the  lip  and  under 
the  tongue.  The  jowl  and  salad  should  always  be  served  with 
fresh  poached  eggs. — Mos.  -P.   W. 

Pickled  Pork  Equal  to  Fresh. 
Let  the  meat  cool  thoroughly;  cut  into  pieces  four  to  six 
inches  wide,  weigh  them  and  pack  them  as  tight  as  possible  in 
a  barrel,  salting  very  slightly.  Cover  the  meat  with  brine  made 
as  strong  as  possible.  Pour  off  a  gallon  of  brine  and  mix  with 
it  one  tablespoonful  saltpetre  for  every  100  pounds  meat  and 
return  it  to  the  barrel.  Let  it  stand  one  month,  then  take  out 
the  meat,  let  it  drain  twelve  hours.  Put  the  brine  in  an  iron 
kettle,  and  one  quart  treacle  or   two  pounds  sugar,  and  boil 


HOW  TO  COOK  SALT  PORK POrrED  TONGUE  OB  HAM,    131 

until  perfectly  clear.  When  it  is  cold,  return  the  meat  to  the 
barrel  and  pour  on  the  brine.  Weight  it  down  and  keep  it 
covered  close,  and  you  will  have  the  sweetest  meat  you  ever 
tasted. 

How  TO  Cook  Salt  Pork. 
Many  people  do  not  relish  salt  pork  fried,  but  it  is  quite 
good  to  soak  it  in  milk  two  or  three  hours,  then  roll  in  Indiau 
meal  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  This  makes  a  good  dish  wiah 
mashed  turnips,  or  raw  onions  cut  in  vinegar ;  another  way  ia 
to  soak  it  over  night  in  skimmed  milk  and  bake  like  fresh 
pork ;  it  is  almost  as  good  as  fresh  roast  pork. 

Ham  Toast. 

Mince  about  one  pint  boiled  lean  ham. 

Add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls 
cream,  and  a  little  cayenne  pep})er. 

Stir  all  on  the  6  re  until  it  thickens,  and  spread  on  hot  toast 
with  the  crust  cut  off. — Mrs.  J.  T.  B. 

Ham  Toast. 

Chop  very  fine  two  spoonfuls  of  lean  ham  that  has  been 
cooked  ;   take  two  spoonfuls  veal  gravy  ;  a  few  bread  crumbs. 

Put  all  together  in  a  stewpan  and  heat  it.  Have  ready  a 
toast  buttered,  spread  the  above  upon  it,  strew  a  few  bread 
crumbs  over  it  and  brown  it  before  the  fire. — Mrs.  S. 

Ham  Relish. 

Cut  a  slice  of  dressed  ham,  season  it  highly  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  broil  it  brown ;  then  spread  mustard  over  it,  squeeze 
on  it  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  serve  quickly. 

Potted  Tongue  or  Ham. 
Remove  all  sldn,  gristle,  and  outside  parts  from  one  pound 
of  the  lean  of  cold  boiled  tongue  or  ham. 

Pound  it  in   a  mortar  to  a  smooth  paste  with  either  one- 


132       TO  E0A8T  8H0AT TO  BAEBACUE  SHOAT. 

quarter  pound  of  the   fat,  or  with  two  ounces  fresh  butter , 
Season  with  cayenne,  pounded  mace  and  allspice. 

Press  it  well  into  pots  and  cover  with  clarified  butter  or  fat. 

To  KoAST  Shoat. 
The  hind-quarter  is  considered  best.  Cut  off  the  foot,  leav- 
aig  the  hock  quite  short.  Wash  well  and  put  into  boiling 
water;  simmer  until  done,  adding  salt  and  pepper  just  before 
lifting  from  the  kettle  ;  salt  put  in  sooner  hardens  and  toughens. 
Place  the  meat  in  a  baking-pan  and  score  across,  in  the  direction 
in  which  it  is  to  be  carved.  Skim  sevei-al  ladlefuls  from  the 
top  of  the  kettle  and  pour  over ;  after  this  has  dried  off, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  an  egg  beaten 
stiff,  sift  over  powdered  cracker,  and  set  to  brown.  Lay  around 
sweet  potatoes  first  parboiled,  then  cut  in  thick  slices.  Serve 
with  minced  parsley  and  thyme,  both  on  the  meat  and  in  the 
gravy.— Jfrs.  S.  T. 

To  Roast  a  Fore  Quarter  of  Shoat. 
Put  it  on  in  hot  water,  boil  for  half  an  hour;  take  it  out, 
put  in  a  pan,  gash  it  across  with  a  sharp  knife,  in  diamond 
shapes,  grease  it  with  lard  and  dredge  with  flour,  2)epper  and  a 
little  salt.  Peel  some  good  Irish  potatoes,  lay  them  around  the 
pan  and  set  in  the  stove  to  brown,  basting  frequently.  This 
meat  should  be  cooked  done,  as  it  is  not  good  the  least 
I'are.      Grate   some   bread    crumbs  over  it   and  serve. — Mrs. 

P.  w. 

To  Barbecue  Shoat. 

Lay  the  shoat  in  water  till  I'eady  for  use ;  if  small,  it  will 
cook  in  an  hour.  Put  in  the  oven  with  two  spoonfuls  of  water, 
a  piece  of  lard,  and  dredge  with  flour.  When  ready  for  use, 
pour  in  half  a  teacup  of  walnut  catsup,  and,  if  not  fat,  a  piece 
of  butter. 


8h0at  jowl — roast  pig.  133 

Shoat  Jowl. 
The  upper  half  of  the  head  is  what  is  generally  used  for 
what  is  called  "  The  Pig's-head  Stew."  Another  nice  dish  may 
be  made  of  the  under  jaw  or  jowl  by  parboiling  until  the  jaw- 
bone can  be  taken  out;  always  adding  pepper  and  salt  just 
before  it  is  done.  When  perfectly  tender,  score  across  ;  pepper 
and  salt  again,  cover  with  beaten  egg,  then  with  cracker.  Set 
in  a  pan  with  some  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  Put 
in  a  hot  oven  and  brown. — Jifrs.  S.  T. 

Roast  Pig. 

When  roasted  whole,  a  pig  should  not  be  under  four  nor  over 
six  weeks  old.  In  town,  the  butcher  prepares  for  roasting, 
but  it  is  well  to  know,  in  the  country,  how  this  may  be  done. 
As  soon  as  the  pig  is  killed,  throw  it  into  a  tub  of  cold  water, 
to  make  it  tender ;  as  soon  as  cold,  take  it  by  the  hind  leg,  and 
plunge  into  scalding,  not  boiling  water  (as  the  last  cooks  the 
skin  so  that  the  hair  can  with  difficulty  be  removed),  shake  it 
about  until  the  hair  can  be  removed  by  the  handful.  When  all 
that  is  possible  has  been  taken  off  in  this  way,  rub  from  the 
tail  up  to  the  end  of  the  nose  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Take  off 
the  hoofs,  scrape  and  wash  the  ears  and  nose  until  perfectly 
clean.  The  nicest  way  to  dress  it  is  to  hang  it  by  the  hind 
legs,  open  and  take  out  the  entrails ;  wash  well  with  water, 
with  a  little  soda  dissolved  in  it;  rinse  again  and  again,  and 
leave  hanging  an  hour.  Wrap  in  a  coarse  cloth  wrung  oiit  Ox 
cold  water  and  lay  on  ice  or  in  a  cool  cellar  until  next  morning, 
when,  if  the  weather  is  warm,  it  must  be  cooked.  It  should 
never  be  used  the  same  day  that  it  is  killed. 

First  prepare  the  stuffing  of  the  liver,  heart  and  liaslets  of 
the  pig,  stewed,  seasoned,  and  chopped.  Mix  with  these  an 
equal  quantity  of  boiled  potatoes  mashed ;  add  a  large  spoonful 
of  biitter,  with  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  parsley  and  thyme, 
chopped  fiue,  pepper  and  salt. 

Scald  the  pig  on  the  inside,  dry  it  and  rub  with  pepper  and 


134    TO  STEW  pig's  head  akd  jo\vl — shoat's  head. 

salt,  fill  and  sew  up.  Bend  the  fore  legs  under  the  body,  the 
hind  legs  forward,  under  the  pig,  and  skewer  to  keep  in  position. 
Place  in  a  large  baking-pan,  pour  over  one  quart  of  boiling 
water.  Have  a  lump  of  fresh  butter  tied  up  in  a  clean  rag; 
rub  it  all  over  the  pig,  then  sprinkle  over  pepper  and  salt,  put- 
ting some  iu  the  pan  with  a  bunch  of  herbs  ;  invert  over  it  a 
baking-pan  while  it  simmers,  and  steam  until  entirely  done.  Un- 
derdone pork,  shoat,  or  pig,  is  both  unpalatable  and  unwhole- 
some. Remove  the  pan,  rub  over  with  the  butter  and  baste 
often.  When  of  a  fine  brown,  cover  the  edges  of  a  large  dish 
with  a  deep  fringe  of  curled  parsley  ;  first  sift  over  the  pig  pow- 
dered cracker,  then  place  it,  kneeling,  in  the  green  bed.  Place 
in  its  mouth  an  orange  or  a  red  apple ;  and,  if  eaten  hot,  serve 
with  the  gravy  in  a  tureen  or  sauce-boat.  It  is  much  nicer 
cold;  served  with  little  mounds  of  grated  horseradish  amongst 
the  parsley. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Stew  Pig's  Head  and  Jowl. 

Clean  the  head  and  feet ;  take  out  the  bone  above  the  nose  ; 
cut  ofi"  the  ears,  clean  them  nicely.  Sepai'ate  the  jowl  from  the 
head  ;  take  care  of  the  brains  to  add  to  the  stew.  Put  the  head, 
jowl,  feet  and  part  of  the  liver  in  water  suflScient  to  keep 
well  covered  ;  boil  until  quite  done.  Split  the  feet  to  put  on 
the  dish  ;  hash  the  head  and  liver  ;  but  do  not  spoil  the  jowl, 
which  must  be  put  in  the  middle  of  the  dish  and  surrounded 
with  the  feet  and  hash.  Put  all  of  the  hash,  jowl  and  feet  in 
the  pot  and  season  with  a  cup  of  cream,  a  lump  of  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  a  tablespoonful  walnut  catsup,  an  onion  chopped 
fine,  a  stalk  of  celery. 

A  teaspoonful  mustard  improves  it. 

Stew  half  an  hour  ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  grated  bread. — 
Mrs.  P.  W. 

Shoat's  Head. 

Get  a  shoat's  head  and  clean  it  nicely.  Boil  and  chop  in 
pieces.     Season  with : 


SHOAt's   nEAD,    TO   STEW — TO   HASH   PIG's   HEAD.       135 


2  tablespoonfuls  tomato  catsup, 

2  tablespoonfuls  walnut  catsup. 

2  cups  water. 

A  little  flour. 

1  large  spoonful  butter. 

Pepper  and  salt. 
Have  two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  them  in  half  and  lay 
on  the  top  of  the  head  ;  set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake. 

Yeal  or  mutton  head,  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  but 
are  not  so  nice. — Mrs.  R. 

Shoat's  Head,  to  Stew. 

Clean  the  head  and  feet ;  and  put  them  on  to  parboil  with 
the  liver.  Then  split  up  the  head,  through  the  nose,  taking 
out  the  bones.  Cut  the  meat  from  the  feet  and  chop  up  with 
the  liver,  season  this  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Lay  the  head  open  and  fill  it  with  this  mince  and  the  yolks 
of  some  hard-boiled  eggs :  if  this  does  not  fill  the  head,  add 
some  grated  bread  crumbs  or  ci'ackers  and  butter. 

Sew  up  the  head  and  bind  it  with  thread ;  put  it  in  the  pot 
with  the  water  it  has  been  parboiled  in  and  let  it  stew  slowly. 
Take  up  the  head,  and  add  to  the  gravy  a  lump  of  butter,  i-olled 
in  flour,  some  browning  and  some  walnut  catsup.  Pour  this 
over  the  head,  which  should  be  brown.  If  the  shoafc  is  not 
very  small,  use  biead  and  butter  instead  of  the  liver. — Mrs.  R. 

To  Hash  Pig's  Head. 
Take  head,  feet,  and  haslet  of  pig ;  boil  them  until  done,  then 
cut  them  up  fine,  taking  out  the  bones. 

Add  black  pepper,  salt,  a  little  sage. 
2  onions  chopped  fine. 
A  little  red  pepp^-. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
Put    it   back  in  the  same  vessel  with  liquor  and  cook  till 


136  BEEF   AND   VEAL. 

done,  then  thicken  with  a  little  flour.     Add  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  one  cup  walnut  catsup. — Mrs.  Dr.  J'. 


'T- 


BEEF  AND  VEAL. 


In  selecting  beef,  see  that  the  flesh  is  firm  and  of  a  clear  red, 
and  the  fat  of  a  yellowish  white.  In  buying  a  quarter  of  beef, 
it  is  better  to  have  it  cut  up  by  the  bvitcher,  if  you  are  living 
in  town.  The  hind  quarter  is  considered  better,  and  sells  higher 
than  the  fore  quarter.  If  a  roasting  piece  is  desired,  the  sirloin 
from  the  hind  quarter  is  usually  preferred.  It  is  not  generally 
known,  however,  that  the  second  cut  of  the  rib-roast  from  the 
fore  quarter  is  the  finest  roast  from  the  beef. 

When  the  bone  has  been  removed,  and  the  meat  skewered  in 
the  shape  of  a  round,  by  the  butcher,  it  is  well  to  roast  it  on  a 
spit  before  an  open  fire.  If  the  latter  cannot  be  obtained,  how- 
ever, plunge  the  beef  for  a  moment  in  boiling  water,  then  rub 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  place  on  a 
little  grate  or  trivet  which  will  readily  go  in  a  baking-pan.  In 
this  pour  about  a  pint  of  the  water  in  which  the  beef  was 
scalded.  Place  it  in  a  very  hot  oven,  with  an  inverted  tin 
plate  on  top  of  the  roast.  Remove  this  plate  often  to  baste 
the  meat.  When  nearly  done,  which  will  be  in  about  two 
hours  for  a  roast  of  six  pounds,  baste  several  times  and  bake  a 
nice  brown.  Season  the  gravy  with  minced  onion,  parsley  and 
thyme,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
meat  flavoring  of  which  a  receipt  was  given  in  the  general  direc- 
tions about  meat.  Serve  the  gravy  in  a  sauce-tureen,  so  that 
each  person  may  choose  whether  to  eat  the  beef  with  gravy  or 
with  the  juice  that  escapes  from  the  meat  while  it  is  being 
carved.  The  latter  mixed  with  grated  horseradish  is  preferred 
to  gravy  by  some  persons. 


BEEF    AND    VEAL,  137 

Every  portion  of  the  beef,  from  head  to  feet  is  useful  and 
delicious  when  properly  prepared. 

The  rounds  and  rump  pieces  are  generally  used  for  beef  a  la- 
mode. 

Fresh  beef  from  the  ribs,  boiled  with  tux-nips,  is  considered 
a  nice  dish  by  some  persons. 

For  steak,  nothing  is  so  nice  as  tenderloin  or  porter-house 
steak.  I  take  this  occasion  to  protest  against  the  unwholesome 
custom  of  frying  steak  in  lard.  When  inconvenient  to  broil,  it 
may  be  deliciously  cooked  by  being  first  beaten  till  tender,  then 
laid  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  closely  covered,  and  cooked  without 
lard  or  butter,  in  its  own  juices.  When  scorched  brown  on 
both  sides,  but  not  hard,  I'emove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  pepper 
and  salt  the  steak,  and  put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter 
on  it.  Press  this  in  with  a  knife  and  fork,  turning  the  steak, 
so  that  each  side  may  absorb  the  butter.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 
The  whole  process  will  not  consume  five  minutes.  Some  per- 
sons think  it  best  to  add  the  salt  after  the  steak  is  done,  though 
many  good  housekeepers  salt  and  pepper  the  steak  before 
before  broiling  it.  Beefsteak  should  be  cooked  rare ;  it  is  a 
great  mistake  to  cook  it  till  hard  and  indigestible. 

The  parts  most  suitable  for  souji  are  the  head,  neck,  shank, 
and  all  the  unsightly  parts.  After  the  bones  are  bi-oken  and 
the  meat  boiled  from  them,  the  liquor  is  used  for  soup,  while 
the  meat,  picked  or  cut  to  pieces,  will  make  an  excellent  stew 
seasoned  with  potatoes,  turnips,  sweet  herbs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  th«  same  of  meat  flavoring. 

It  is  well  always  to  keep  brine  on  hand  for  corning  beef. 
All  the  parts  not  desirable  for  roast  or  steak  nad  better  be 
corned. 

The  beef,  after  being  dressed,  should  be  hung  up  by  the  hind 
legs,  with  a  smooth,  I'ound  piece  of  timber  siifliciently  strong 
to  hold  the  weight,  passed  through  the  legs  at  the  hock,  or  mn 
between  the  tendon  and  bone,  with  short  pegs  to  keep  the  legs 
stretched  apart.     Then  with  a  sharp  axe,  standing  behind  the 

12 


138  BEEF TO   ROAST   BEEF. 

suspended  beef,  split  it  down  the  backbone,  severing  it  in  half. 
Then  pass  a  knife  through  the  ribs,  leaving  two  or  three  short 
ribs  on  the  hind-quarter.  Sever  the  backbone  with  an  axe. 
Then  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  straight  across  the  parallel  line 
with  the  sjjinal  bone,  which  piece  must  be  divided  into  two 
pieces,  the  sirloin  and  steak.  Then  take  off  two  rounds,  or 
three,  according  to  the  size  of  the  animal,  cutting  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  cutting  the  bone  with  a  meat  saw  or  axe,  as  near  the 
joints  as  possible,  which  leaves  the  shin-bone. 

The  fore  quarter  then  is  divided  into  four  pieces,  after  taking 
off  the  shoulder,  which  may  be  divided  into  three  or  more 
pieces. 

The  loin  of  veal  is  the  nicest  part,  and  is  always  roasted. 

The  fillets  and  knuckles  may  be  stewed  and  roasted. 

The  latter  is  nicest  for  soup. 

The  breast  may  be  stewed  or  roasted. 

The  cutlets  are  nicest  from  the  legs  or  fillet. 

The  head  is  a  dish  for  soup,  stew  or  pie. 

Sweetbreads  from  the  throat  make  a  delicious  dish,  m\ich 
prized  by  epicureans. 

The  feet,  boiled  till  the  bones  drop  out,  make  a  delightful 
dish,  fried  in  batter,  while  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled 
makes  excellent  jelly. 

Veal,  to  be  eaten  in  its  perfection,  should  be  killed  when  from 
four  to  six  weeks  old. 

Beef, 
The  sirloin,  or  fore  and  middle  ribs,  are  best  for  roasting. 
The  steaks  are  best  cut  from  the  ribs,  or  the  inner  part  of 
the  sirloin ;  shank,  tail  and  head  make  nice  soup. — Mrs.  W. 

To  Roast  Beef. 
Lay  the  meat  on  some  sticks  in  a  dripping-pan  or  other  ves- 
sel, so  that  it  will  not  touch  the  water  which  it  is  necessary  to 
have  in  the  bottom.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  in 


RIB   ROAST   OF   BEEF TO    ROAST   BEEF.  139 

the  oven  three  or  four  hours  before  it  is  wanted  for  the  table. 
Baste  it  often  with  the  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  renew- 
ing it  as  often  as  it  gets  low.  This  makes  sweet,  juicy  roast 
beef.  The  great  secret  of  it  is,  not  to  have  the  meat  touch  the 
water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  to  baste  it  often.  Tough, 
unpromising  pieces  of  beef  are  best  cooked  by  steaming  them 
an  hour  and  a  half  or  so  and  then  putting  them  in  the  oven 
and  roasting  as  much  longer. 

Crackers,  first  browned  and  then  pounded,  should  always  be 
kept  to  sift  over  roast  meats :  and  curled  parsley  to  garnish 
with.  Grated  horseradish  is  also  excellent  with  the  roast. 
—Mrs.  S.  T. 

E.IB  Roast  of  Beef. 
Get,  from  the  butcher,  a  rib-roast — the  second  cut  is  best — ■ 
and  get  him  to  take  out  the  bones,  and  roll  and  skewer  it :  if 
this  is  not  convenient,  it  can  be  done  at  home  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Before  roasting,  take  out  the  wooden  skewers  put  in  at 
market,  unroll,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  anything 
else  liked,  and  roll  again  tightly,  fastening  securely  with  the 
iron  skewer  pins.  Put  it  in  a  pan  on  a  little  iron  griddle  or 
trivet,  made  for  the  purpose  to  keep  it  just  over  the  pint  of 
water  in  the  pan.  Pepper  and  salt  freely,  dredge  with  flour 
and  baste.  Some  persons  like  half  a  teacup  of  pepper  vinegar, 
poured  over  just  before  it  is  done ;  and  minced  onion,  thyme 
and  parsley  added  to  the  gravy,  which  should  be  brown. — 
Mrs,  B. 

To  Roast  Beef. 

The  sirloin  is  the  nicest  for  the  ^^urpose. 

Plunge  the  beef  in  boiling  water  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes  ; 
then  put  it  in  the  stove-pan ;  skim  the  top  of  the  water  in 
which  it  has  beea  boiled,  and  baste  the  roast,  after  dredging  it 
M'ith  flour ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Baste  frequently,  and 
roast  till  done. — Mrs.  P.  W. 


140  beef  a  la  mode. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 
Take,  from  a  round  of  fresh  beef,  the  bone  ;  beat  the  meat 
all  over  slightly  to  make   tender.     Grate  a  loaf  of  bread,  mix 
with  it  equal  quantities  of — 

Thyme  and  parsley,  rubbed  fine. 

1  onion. 

The  marrow  from  the  bone. 

^  pound  suet. 

Pepper  and  salt,  cloves  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste. 
Mix  these  ingredients  with  three  eggs  well  beaten :  fill  the 
place  from  whence  came  the  bone,  and  what  is  left  rub  all  over 
the  i-ound :  fasten  well  with  a  tape,  tied  round  to  keep  in 
shape.  Cover  the  pan  with  slices  of  bacon,  lay  the  beef  upon 
them,  baste  with  butter :  pour  in  the  pan  a  pint  of  water. 
Cover  closely  and  stew  gently  for  six  hours  ;  when  tlioroughly 
done,  take  out  the  beef,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  strain  into 
a  saucepan,  set  it  on  the  stove  and  stir  into  it  one  teacup  Port 
wine.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  send  to  the  table  in  a  sauce 
tureen.  You  may,  for  supper,  dish  cold :  dress  with  vegetable 
flowers,  whites  of  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine. — Mrs. 

jr.w.s. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 
Take  a  round  or  a  rump  piece  of  beef,  take  out  the  bone,  the 
gristle  and  all  the  tough  pieces  about  the  edges.     Fill  the  cavi- 
ties from  which  the  bone  was  taken,  with  suet,  and  fat  salt 
pork. 

Press  this  so  as  to  make  it  perfectly  round,  pass  around  a 
coarse,  strong  piece  of  cloth,  so  as  to  hold  it  firmly  in  shape. 
If  the  round  is  six  inches  thick,  the  cloth  must  be  six  inches 
wide,  leaving  the  top  and  bottom  open.  With  a  larding  needle, 
fill  this  thickly  with  strips  of  fat  pork,  running  through  from 
top  to  bottom  and  about  one  inch  apart  each  way.  Set  this  in 
a  baking-pan,  pour  over : 

1  teacup  boiling  water, 

1  teacup  boiling  vinegar ;  mixed. 


I 


BOILED   BEEF   AND    TUKNIPS.  141 

Add  to  this  one  heaping  tablespoonful  brown  sugar  and  a 
bunch  of  herbs. 

Sprinkle  over  the  beef  liberally  with  salt  and  black  pepper ; 
chop  one  small  onion  fiae,  and  lay  over  top  of  the  beef.  Sim- 
mer this  for  two  or  three  hours,  basting  frequently  and  keeping 
an  inverted  tin  plate  over  the  beef  except  when  basting.  If  the 
gravy  stews  down  too  much,  add  stock  or  broth  of  any  kind. 
l\u-n  it  over,  and  let  the  top  be  at  the  bottom.  When  it  is 
done  and  tender,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy.     Pour  over  : 

2  tablespoonfuls  celery  vinegar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  made  mustard. 

1  wiueglassful  acid  fruit  jelly. 
Simmer  and  bake  for  two  hours  longer,  frequently  basting, 
that  it  may  be  soft  acd  seasoned  through  and  through.  Take  the 
beef  from  the  pan  and  remove  the  cloth  ;  place  in  a  large  flat  dish, 
pour  over  the  gravy,  and  over  this  one  teacup  of  mushroom  sauce. 
Sift  finely  powdered  cracker  over  the  top  and  garnish  with 
grated  or  sciaped  horseradish  and  parsley. — Mrs.  S.  T 

Seef  d  la  Mode. 
To  10  pounds  of  beef,  4  onions  chopped  up. 
1  tablespoonful  allspice,  1  teaspoonful  mace. 
Red  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
1  pint  strong  Aanegar. 
Rub  the  beef  in  the  mixture  for  three  or  four  days,  then  cook, 
with  all  these  ingredients.     The   H   piece   is  generally  the  part 
taken  for  this  pui'pose. — ]\Irs.  JM.  H. 

Boiled  Beef  and  Turnips. 

The  brisket  or  breast  of  beef  is  nicest  for  boiling.  Keep 
sufficiently  covered  in  water,  boiling  three  hours,  or  until 
tender. 

Peel  aud  slice  half  a  dozen  turnips  and  put  with  beef,  boil- 
ing until  soft  enough  to  mash  with  a  spoon,  which  will  require 


142  TO    COLLAR    BEEF BEEFSTEAK   BROILED, 

about  thirty  minutes.     Dress  with  one  teacup  of  milk,  peppei 
and  salt  to  the  taste. 

Stew  together  a  short  time  and  put  in  bottom  of  dish  with 
beef  on  the  top.— Mrs.  F.   W. 

To  Collar  Beef. 

Take  a  flank  of  fresh  beef,  stew  it  with  pepper,  salt,  allspice, 
saltpetre,  thyme,  and  sage.  » 

Then  roll  as  hard  as  you  can,  and  wind  a  string  around  it ; 
then  boil  till  done.  It  must  be  served  up  cold,  cut  in  slices. — 
Mrs.  M.  P. 

Rolled  Beefsteak. 

Bfeat  a  large  tender  steak  thoroughly  and  carefully. 

Sprinkle  over  salt,  pepper,  sage,  minced  onion,  minced  pars- 
ley, and  bits  of  butter. 

Have  ready  some  mealy  Irish  potatoes  mashed  fine,  and 
seasoned  with  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Spread  over  all,  and 
roll  up  tightly  :  fasten  the  ends  and  sides  securely  with  skewer 
pins.  Place  in  a  pan  with  such  broth  or  gravy  as  may  be  on 
hand ;  if  none,  two  teacups  of  boiling  water,  and  one  small 
minced  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and  one  slice  of  pork. 

Simmer  and  baste  as  you  would  a  roast  duck.  Sift  over  it 
browned  cracker,  pounded  fine.      Very  nice. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Beefsteak  Broiled. 
Cut  the  steak  one-half  inch  thick  ;  it  should  then  be  beaten 
with  a  steak  beater  or  pestle.  The  griddle  should  be  hot  and  on 
the  coals  :  place  the  steak  on  the -griddle,  and  as  soon  as  seared, 
turn  it ;  when  both  sides  are  seared,  place  it  in  a  pan,  season 
it  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter :  repeat  this  for  every  piece  of 
steak,  and  place  in  the  pan,  which  should  be  kept  closely  cov- 
ered withou.t  being  on  the  fire.  If  your  heat  is  suflElcient,  from 
thred  to  five  minutes  is  suflicient  to  cook. — Mrs.  P.   TFI 


broiled  stfiak bbbf8tea.k  fried  with  onions.     143 

Broiled  Steak. 
A  porter-house  steak  is  considered,  by  some  persons,  best, 
others  prefer  the  teuderloin.  Beat  either  tender,  and  place  on 
a  gridiron  over  coals,  frequently  turning.  Have  ready  a  hot 
dish,  place  the  steak  on  it,  pepper  and  salt  well,  then  with  a 
knife  and  fork  profusely  butter,  with  one  large  tablespoonful 
fresh  butter,  turning  and  pressing  it  so  as  to  absorb  the  butter ; 
pepper  again  and  set  the  dish  over  boiling  water  untii  wanted, 
when  it  will  be  found  tender  and  juicy,  if  not  cooked  too  long 
on  a  gridiron.  One  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar  gives  this  the 
taste  of  venison,  and  to  this  may  be  added  one  tablespoonful 
made  mustard,  for  those  who  like  highly  seasoned  food. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

How  TO  Cook  Beefsteak. 
Take  a  thin,  long-handled  frying-pan,  put  it  on  the  stove  and 
heat  it  quite  hot.  In  this  put  the  pieces  of  steak  previously 
pounded,  but  do  not  put  a  particle  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan 
and  do  not  salt  the  steak.  Allow  the  steak  to  merely  glaze  over 
and  then  turn  it  quickly  to  the  other  side,  turning  it  several 
times  in  this  manner,  until  it  is  done.  Four  minutes  is  sufficient 
for  cooking.  When  done,  lay  it  on  the  platter,  previously 
warmed  ;  butter  and  salt,  and  set  a  moment  in  the  bot  oven. 
Allow  the  steak  to  heat  but  a  moment  on  each  side ;  this  helps 
it  to  retain  all  its  sweet  juices,  and  putting  on  the  salt  at  the 
last  monent,  after  it  is  on  the  platter,  draws  out  its  juices. — ■ 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

Beefsteak  Fried  with  Onions. 

Prepare  the  steak  as  for  broiling,  pepper  and  roll  in  flour  and 
fry  in  lard  ;  remove  the  steak  from  the  pan  when  done  ;  add  to 
the  gravy  one  chopped  onion,  pepper,  salt,  one-half  teacup  water, 
and  a  little  mustard. 

Cook  a  few  minutes,  put  the  steak  in  the  gravy— let  it  remaia 
a  short  time  ;  send  to  the  table  hot. — Mrs.  P.   Wl 


144  TO  FBY   STEAK — FRIZZLED   BEEF. 

To  Fky  Steak. 
Hunt  up  all  the  pickle  and  take  from  each  one  teacup  vinegar, 
lay  the  steak  in  a  deep  dish,  poux-  over  the  vinegar  and  let  it 
stand  one  hour.  Take  a  clean  frying-pan,  throw  in  one  ounce 
butter,  and  some  of  the  vinegar  from  the  dish,  sufficient  to  stew 
\he  steak.  If  managed  properly,  when  done  it  will  be  imbedded 
in  a  thick  gravy.  Put  the  steak  in  a  hot  dish,  before  the  fire  ; 
into  the  pan,  put  one  spoonful  black  pepper,  one  or  two  of  cat- 
sup, and  one  of  raw  mustard. — M'rs.  S. 

Juried  Steak. 

Get  from  the  butcher  a  tenderloin  or  porter-house  steak.  Do 
not  wash  it,  but  be  careful  to  lay  it  on  a  clean  block  and  beat  it 
well,  but  not  into  holes,  nor  so  as  to  look  i-agged.  Sprinkle 
over  pepper  and  salt,  then  dredge  with  flour  on  both  sides. 

Have  ready  a  hot  frying-pan,  lay  in  the  steak  and  cover 
closely.  The  juice  of  the  meat  will  be  sufficient  to  cook  it. 
Turn  often,  as  the  pan  must  be  hot  enough  to  scorch  and  make 
the  steak  and  gravy  brown. 

Before  it  gets  hard  or  overdone,  butter  liberally  ;  place  in  a 
hot  dish.  Pepper  again,  and,  if  preferred,  pour  over  first  one 
tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar,  then  one  tablespoonful  made  mus- 
tard, and  turn  in  over  all  the  hot  gravy.  Sift  powered  cracker 
over  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Frizzled   Beef, 

Shred  some  dried  beef,  parboil  it  until  it  is  sufficiently  freshen- 
ed, drain  off  the  water  and  add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover 
it.  Rub  equal  quantities  of  butter  and  flour  together  until 
smooth,  then  add  to  the  beef.  Beat  up  three  eggs,  yolks  and 
whites  together,  stir  these  in  with  a  little  pepper,  a  couple  of 
minutes  before  taking  from  the  fire.  This  is  to  be  served  hot  on 
toast. — Mrs.  F. 


fricasseed  beef to  stew  a  rump  of  beef.       145 

Fricasseed  Beef. 
Take  any  piece  of  beef  from  the  fore  quarter,  such  as  is  gen- 
erally used  for  corning,  and  cook  it  tender  in  just  water  enough 
to  have  it  all  evaporate  in  cooking.  When  about  half  done,  put 
in  salt  enough  to  season  well,  and  half  teaspoonful  pepper.  If 
the  water  should  not  boil  away  soon  enough,  turn  it  oft',  and  let 
the  beef  fry  fifteen  minutes — it  is  better  than  the  best  roast 
beef.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  adding  the  fat — when 
mixed,  pour  on  the  hot  juice  of  the  meat.  Serve  with  apple 
sauce. — Mrs.  D. 

Beef  Stew. 
This  is  best  when  made  of  slices  cut  from  an  underdone  roast, 
and  simmered  in  any  liquor  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled,  but 
if  none  is  at  hand,  use  water  instead — just  covering  the  beef. 
To  a  half  dozen  slices  of  the  usual  size,  add  : 
2  tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar. 
1  tablespoonful  of  made  mustard. 
1  tablespoonful  of  acid  fruit  jelly. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 
1  saltspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  raw  turnip,  grated  or  scraped  fine. 
1  mashed  Irish  potato. 
Add  minced  onion  and  parsley. 
Boil  up  and  serve. 
Cold  beefsteak  or  mutton  chops,  which  are  always  unfit  to 
appear  upon  the  table  a  second  time,  are  delicious  cut  up  in 
small  pieces  and  mixed  or  stewed  separately  in  this  way. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

To  Stew  a  Rump  of  Beef. 
Stuff"  the  beef  with  shallots,  thyme,  parsley,   chopped  fine, 
slips  of  bacon,  pepper,  salt  and  allspice.     Then  lay  it  in  a  pot 
with  water  sufficient  to  keep  it  from  burning  before  it  is  done. 

13 


146  LEBANON   STEW — TONGUE   1.   LA   TERRAPIN. 

Thicken  the  gravy  with  burnt  flour  and  butter,  and  when  it  is 
served  up,  pour  a  little  wine  over  it  and  strew  the  top  with  all- 
spice.— Mrs.  M.  P. 

Lebanon  Stew. 
Take  scraps  of  raw  beef,  such  as  are  not  fit  for  boiling,  cut 
very  fine,  picking  out  all  tlie  strings,  and  put  into  a  kettle,  and 
more  than  cover  with  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  several  hours,  or 
until  the  water  is  nearly  all  gone.  Season  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  It  is  rich  and  needs  but  little  seasoning.  Serve  hot, 
as  you  would  hash. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Beef  Collaps. 
\\  pounds  lean  beef,  chopped  fine. 
1  tablespoonful  lard. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
With  enough  water  to  cook  it. 
After  being  well  cooked,  thicken  gravy,  and  season  with  vine- 
gar and  pepper. — Mrs.  M.  D. 

To  Stew  Beep  Tongue. 
But  a  fre.sli  tongue  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  it,  and  let  it 
simmer  six  or  seven  hours.  Skim  the  gravy  well.  Half  an 
hour  before  dishing  it,  add  one-half  wineglassful  wine,  one-half 
wineglassful  walnut  catsup,  a  little  mace,  and  a  few  cloves  to 
the  gravy,  and  stew  awhile  together. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Tongue  a  la  Terrapin. 

Take  a  freshly  salted  tongue  and  boil  tender ;  take  out,  and 
split  it,  stick  a  few  cloves  in,  cut  up  a  small  onion,  put  in  some 
sticks  of  mace,  and  a  little  brown  floui'. 

Have  water  enoiigh  in  a  stewpan  to  cover  the  tongue;  mix 
in  the  ingredients,  before  putting  in  the  tongue.  Three  liard- 
boiled  eggs  choi)ped  up  fine  and  put  in  the  stew.      Add  a  glass 


TONGUE   TOAST — TO   BTEW   BEEF   KIDNEYS.  147 

of  wine  just  before  taking  up.     Send  to  the  table  hot,  garnished 
with  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  rings, — Mrs.  L.  C. 

Tongue  Toast. 
Take  cold  tongue  that  has  been  well  boiled,  mince  fine,  mix 
it  well  with  cream  or  a  little  milk,  if  there  is  no  cream.  Add 
the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  and  give  it  a  simmer  over  the  fire. 
Toast  nicely  some  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  and,  having  buttered, 
lay  them  in  a  flat  dish,  that  has  been  heated,  then  cover  the 
toast  with  the  tongue  and  serve  up  directly. — Mrs.  /S. 

To  Roast  an  Ox  Heart. 

Wash  it  well  and  clean  all  the  blood  carefully  from  the  pipes ; 
parboil  it  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  boiling  water ;  drain  and 
put  in  a  stuffing  which  has  been  made  of  bread  crumbs,  minced 
suet  or  butter,  thyme  or  parsley,   salt,   pepper,   and   nutmeg. 

Put  it  down  to  roast  while  hot,  baste  it  well  with  butter,  and 
just  before  serving,  stir  one  tablespoonful  currant  jelly  into  the 
gravy.  To  roast,  allow  twenty  minutes  to  every  pound. — Mrs., 
A.  M.  D. 

Beef  Heart. 

Parboil  the  heart  until  nearly  tender,  then  gash  and  stuff 
with  rich  stuffing  of  loaf  bread,  seasoned  with  onion,  salt, 
pepper,  and  sage.  Then  put  in  a  pan  and  bake,  turning  it 
several  times.     Baste  with  gravy  whilst  baking. — Mrs.  «/]  S^. 

Stewed  Kidneys. 
Soak  the  kidneys  for  several  hours,  put  them  on  to  boil  until 
tender.  Roll  them  in  flour,  add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  two  spoonfuls  catsup — any  kind  will  answer,  though  walnut 
is  the  best ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste.  Stew  them  until  well 
seasoned. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

To  Stew  Beef  Kidneys. 
Cut  intp  pieces  and  stew  in  water,  with  a  nice  addition  of 


148  KIDNET8   FETED — BROttED   KmNEYS. 

savory  herbs,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  handful  flour  to  thicken 
the  gi-avy ;  flavor  and  color  the  latter  with  burnt  sugar. — 
Mrs.  R. 

Kidneys  Fried. 
After  plunging  in  boiling  water,  cut  them  in  thin  slices  and 
fi-y  in  hot  butter ;  add  pepper,  salt,  and  toss  them  for  a  few 
minutes  in  rich  brown  gravy. — Mrs.  M. 

Beef  Kidney,  to  Fry. 
Trim  and  cut  the  kidney  in  slices  ;  season  them  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  dredge  well  with  flour;  fry  on  both  sides,  and 
when  done,  lift  them  out,  empty  the  pan  and  make  a  gravy  for 
them  with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  one  dessertspoonful  flour, 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Shake  these  around 
and  give  them  a  minute's  simmering ;  add  a  little  tomato  or 
mushroom  catsup,  lemon  juice,  vinegar,  or  any  good  sauce 
to  give  it  a  flavor.  Minced  herbs  are  to  many  tastes  an 
improvement  to  this  dish,  to  which  a  small  quantity  of  onion 
may  be  added  when  it  is  liked. — Mrs.  A.  M.  I). 

Kidneys  Grilled. 
Prepare  them  as  for  stewing,  cut  each  kidney  in  half  and  dip 
bhem  in  egg  beaten  up  with  salt  and  pepper ;  bread-crumb 
them,  dip  them  in  melted  butter,  bread-crumb  them  again,  then 
grill  before  a  slow  fire ;  serve  with  Worcestershire  or  some 
other  sauce. — Mrs.  JJ'. 

Broiled  Kidneys. 

Plunge  some  kidneys  in  boiling  water ;  open  them  down  the 
centre,  but  do  not  separate  them ;  peel  and  pass  a  skewer 
across  them  to  keep  them  open ;  pepper,  salt,  and  dip  them  in 
melted  butter. 

Broil  them  over  a  clear  fire  on  both  sides,  doing  the  cut  side 
first ;  remove  the  skewer,  have  ready  some  maitre  d'hote  sauce, 
viz.:  butter  beaten  up  with  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper, 


beef's   LIVEK — FKIED   LIVEK.  149 

and  a  little  lemon  juice.     Put  a  small  piece  in  tlie  hollow  of 
each  kidney  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  P. 

Beef's  Liver. 
Skin  the  liver,  cut  in  slices  and  lay  in  salt  water,  as  soon  as 
it  comes  from  market.     Fry  in  lard  with  pepper,  very  brown. 
Season  to  taste. — Mrs.  C. 

To  Fry  Liver. 

The  slices  must  be  cut  thin,  as  they  require  some  time  to  fry ; 
brown  both  sides ;  when  taken  up,  add  butter  and  salt  to  taste. 
Fry  in  hot  lavd.— Mrs.  P.   W. 

Beep  Liver  with  Onions. 
Slice  the  liver  rather  thin,  and  throw  into  salt  and  water. 
Meantime  slice  the  onions  and  put  into  a  deep  frying-pan,  just 
covered  with  water,  and  boil  until  done,  keeping  it  closely  cov- 
ered. When  the  water  has  all  boiled  away,  put  in  a  heaping 
spoonful  of  sweet  lard,  and  fry  until  the  onions  are  a  light 
brown.  Take  them  up  in  a  deep  plate ;  set  them  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  or  range  to  keep  hot,  and  fry  the  liver  in  the  same 
pan,  adding  more  lard  if  there  is  not  enough.  Season  all  with 
salt  and  pepper,  cutting  the  liver  in  slices  suitable  to  help  one 
person.  Make  a  little  mound  of  fried  onions  on  each  piece, 
grate  pounded  ci"acker  on  the  top,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Dried  Liver  for  Relish. 
Salt  the  liver  well  for  four  days  ;  hang  to  smoke  and  dry. 
Cut  in   very  tliin   slices,  and    broil  in  pepper    and   butter. — 
Mrs.   W. 

Fried   Liver. 

Cut  the  slices  thin,  scald  them  for  some  minutes,  put  them  in 

a  pan  with  hot  lard,  and  fry  slowly  till  browned  on  both  sides ; 

add  a  little  salt  and  peppei-.     Take  up  the  liver,  and  pour  into 

the  pan  half  a  teacup  of  water ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  ;  put 


150  TO    STEW   BRAINS — TO   FRY    BRAINS. 

the  Ua  er  back,  stir  it  up,  and  cover  it  up  for  a  short  time  to 
keep  it  from  being  hard. 

Kidneys  can  be  cooked  the  same  way,  excepting  you  must 
add  some  butter,  as  they  are  very  dry. — 3frs.  P.  W. 

To  Stew  Brains. 
Have  them  thoroughly  soaked  in  salt  water  to  get  the  blood 
out.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  water  enough  to  cover  them ; 
boil  half  an  hour,  ponr  oflf  the  water,  and  add  one  teacup  of 
cream  or  milk,  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Boil  well  together  for  ten  minutes,  when  put  into  the  dish. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  vinegar. — Jifrs.  P.  W. 

To  Dress  Brains. 
Lay  in  salt  and  water,  then  either  scramble  like  eggs,  or  beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs  with  a  little  flour ;  dip  the  brains  in  and  fry 
them.— Mrs.   W. 

To  Fry  Beef  Brains. 
Pour  over  the  brains  salt  water,  let  them  remain  for  an  hour, 
changing  the  water  to  draw  the  blood  out,  then  pour  over  them 
some  boiling  water  and  remove  the  skin.  Beat  up  two  eggs, 
and  make  a  batter  with  a  little  flour,  bread  crumbs  and  crackers. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt.     Fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  P.   W. 

To  Fry  Brains. 
Soak  the  brains  for  several  hours  in  weak  salt  water  to  get 
out  the  blood ;  drain  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  and  pour  very 
little  boiling  water  on  ;  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Handle  them 
lightly,  and  arrange  so  as  to  form  round  cakes,  without  break- 
ing. Pepper  them  and  use  veiy  little  salt;  brains  require  very 
little  salt.  Have  ready  a  beaten  egg,  and  cover  the  top  of  the 
cakes  with  it,  using  a  spoon  to  put  it  on.  Sift  over  grated 
cracker  and  fry  in  hot  lard  ;  serve  the  other  side  the  same  way. 
Keep  closely  covered  while  frying. — Mrs.  /S.  T. 


BiiAIN   CROQUETTES — BEEF   TlliPE.  151 

Brain  Croquettes. 
Wash  the  brains  of  three  heads  very  thoroughly,  until  they 
are  free  from  membraneous  matter  and  perfectly  white.  Then 
scramble  with  three  eggs.  When  cold,  roll  into  egg-shaped 
balls,  with  floured  hands ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  o» 
stale  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  lard. — Mrs.  H.  L. 

To  Prepare  Tripe. 
Empty  the  contents  of  the  stomach  of  a  fat  beef;  put  it  in 
boiling  water,  one  piece  at  a  time,  to  prevent  getting  too  hot. 
Scrape  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  put  it  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water 
with  salt ;  wash  thoroughly,  and  change  the  salt  water  every  day 
for  four  or  five  consecutive  days ;  when  perfectly  white,  boil  in 
a  very  clean  vessel  of  salt  water.  Then  put  it  in  vinegar  until 
you  wish  to  use  it.  Cut  it  in  pieces  of  three  or  four  inches 
square,  and  fry  in  egg  batter. — Mrs.  J'.  S. 

Tripe. 
The  moment  the  tripe  is  taken  out,  wash  it  thoroughly  in 
many  cold  watei's.  (If  you  have  quick-lime,  sift  it  over  the 
dark  inner  coat,  and  instantly  scrape  off  the  coat.)  Cut  it  in 
four  parts.  Have  ready- boiling  water,  dip  and  scrape  until  it 
becomes  quite  white.  Prepare  weak  brine  with  a  considerable 
mixture  of  meal;  let  it  soak  a  day.  Continue  to  shift  it  every 
day,  and  every  other  day  scrape  it ;  this  must  be  done  for  a 
week,  and  then  make  nice  gruel,  in  which  it  must  be  well 
boiled,  first  tying  it  up  in  a  cloth.  When  boiled,  take  it  out 
of  the  cloth,  and  lay  it  in  a  weak  brine  for  a  night,  after  which 
it  may  be  put  with  the  feet. — Mrs.  R. 

Beef  Tripe. 

Clean  the  tripe  carefully.  Soak  several  days  in  salt  water, 
then  in  clear  water,  changing  several  times.  Cut  in  slices,  boil 
perfectly  done,  dip  in  a  batter  of  egg  (beaten  light),  milk  and 


162  TO   FEY    rECPB — ^BEEF   SAUSAGE. 

flour,  or  sift  meal  over  it.     Fry  or  broil.     Season  with  peppei 
and  salt. 

To  Fky  Tripe. 

Cut  the  tripe  after  it  has  been  boiled,  into  strips  about  four 
inches  wide  and  six  long.  Make  a  batter  with  two  eggs,  one 
teacup  of  flour  and  a  little  milk.  Pepper  the  tripe  and  roll  it 
in  the  batter.  Fry  in  a  pan  of  hot  lard;  as  soon  as  one  side 
is  done,  turn  it  over  on  the  other  side. — Jifrs.  P.   TF. 

Gravy  for   Roast  Beef. 

When  the  joint  is  done  to  a  turn,  dish  it  and  place  before 
the  fire ;  then  carefully  remove  the  fat  from  the  dripping-pan, 
and  pour  the  gravy  into  the  dish,  not  over  the  meat,  as  is  the 
custom  of  inexperienced  cooks,  who,  moreover,  ruthlessly  drown 
it  with  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  or  highly  flavored  made-gravy. 
This  is  an  error,  for  there  is  always  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
natural  gravy  in  good  meat  to  render  the  use  of  foreign  sauces 
superfluous. — Mrs.  JP. 

Brown  Gravy. 
Take  the  gravy  that  drips  from  the  meat ;  add  a  little  water, 
one  spoonful  butter,  a  little  flour,  a  little  pepper  and  a  little 
salt.     Stew  all  together. — Miss  JE.  P. 

Bologna  Sausage. 
Take  ten  pounds  of  beef,  and  four  pounds  pork,  two-thii'ds 
lean  and  one-third  fat ;  chop  very  fine  and  mix  well  together. 
Season  with  six  ounces  fine  salt,  one  ounce  black  pepper,  one- 
half  ounce  cayenne  pepper,  and  sage  to  the  taste. — Mrs. 
Dr.  S. 

Beef  Sausage. 

Take  tough  Ijeef  and  run  it  through  a  sausage  macJiine.  Form 
the  pulp  into  shapes  an  inch  thick,  and  the  size  of  a  commoc 
beefsteak.     Season  to  the  taste. — Mrs.  C 


cow   HEEL — A   FKENCH    DISH.  153 

Cow  Heel. 
As  soon  as  the  beef  is  killed,  throw  the  feet  in  cold  water, 
and  let  them  remain  during  the  night.  In  the  morning,  put 
them  into  a  pot  of  cold  water  and  let  them  boil  until  you  find 
you  can  easily  take  off  the  hair  and  the  hoof  with  a  knife ;  take 
care  as  the  water  boils  away  to  replenish  with  boiling  water. 
Have  ready  strong  biine,  not  boiled  nor  strong  enough  to  bear 
an  egg,  and  the  moment  the  feet  are  stripped,  throw  them  in. 
Let  them  stand  one  night  and  in  the  morning  pour  the  brine 
from  them  and  put  to  them  a  fresh  brine,  with  a  small  quantity 
of  vinegar.     In  a  day  or  two,  they  are  fit  for  use. — Mrs.  H. 

Cow  Heel  Fried. 

Buy  the  feet  prepared  at  the  butchers;  boil  well  done.  Sea- 
son Avith  salt  and  pepper. 

Have  ready  an  egg  batter  ;  fry  brown,  and  serve  hot,  A  nice 
breakfast  dish. — Mrs.  H.  L.  0. 

To  Fry  Beef  Heel. 
Have  a  batter  made  of  eggs,  flour,  etc.,  as  for  tripe.     Split  the 
feet  into  convenient  shapes  and  fry  in  hot  lard.     Pour  some 
vinegai-  over  them  while  frying. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Daube  Froide. 

Take  a  beef  shin,  chop  in  several  places  to  break  the  bone, 
keep  it  cooking  in  just  water  enough  to  prevent  burning,  till 
it  falls  to  pieces. 

Then  after  taking  out  the  bones,  season  with  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  flour  rubbed  into  one  tablespoonful  butter,  red  and 
black  pepper,  salt  and  celery  seed. 

Stew  it  long  enough  to  cook  the  flour.  Pour  into  a  deep  dish, 
cover  with  a  plate,  and  put  weights  on  it  to  press  it.  Eat  cold, 
as  souse. — Mrs.  C.  M.  A. 

A  French  Dish. 
To  two  beef  feet,  put  four  gallons  water ;  set  on  the  fire  at 


154  BKINE  FOR  BEEF TO  CORN  BEEF. 

eight  o'clock  in  the  morning.  When  the  bones  have  dropped 
off  add  the  half  of  one  large  onion,  two  red  peppers^  and  one 
sprig  parsley,  all  chopped  fine. 

Take  another  pot,  put  in  two  gallons  water,  in  which  cut 
up  one-half  gallon  nice  piecee  of  beef,  half  an  onion,  one  red 
pepper,  parsley,  all  chopped  fine,  and  salt.  When  all  has 
boiled  to  pieces,  put  all  together  and  let  it  boil  half  an  hour. 
Press  as  souse  cheese. — Mrs.  T. 

Brine  for  Beef. 
9  quarts  salt. 
18  gallons  water. 
2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
^  pound  saltpetre. 
Boil  and  skim  well.     Let  the  beef  get  thoroughly  cold,  and  let 
as  much  as  possible  of  the  blood  be  drained  out  before  putting 
it  in  the  brine.     It  may  sometimes  be  necessary,  in  the  course 
of  a  few  months,  that  the  brine  bd  boiled  and  skimmed  a  second 
time. 

This  quantity  will  suffice  for  about  half  of  an  ordinary  sized 
heet—Mrs.  A.  C. 

To  Corn  Beef. 
For  every  hundred  pounds  of  beef,  take  : 
6  pounds  salt. 
2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

2  ounces  saltpetre. 

3  or  4  ounces  soda. 
1  ounce  red  pepper. 

The  whole  to  be  dissolved  in  four  gallons  of  water.  The  beel 
must  be  closely  packed  in  a  baiTel,  and  the  mixture  poured  over 
so  as  to  cover  it.  Let  it  stand  a  week  or  ten  days,  or  longer  if 
the  weather  is  cold  ;  then  pour  oft'  the  brine,  boil  it,  and  skim 
off  the  blood.  Let  it  cool,  and  pour  back  on  the  beef.  War- 
ranted to  keep. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 


TO  CORN  BEEF  TONGUES  AND  BEEF.         155 

To  Corn  Beef  Tongues  and  Beef. 
One  tablespoouful  saltpetre  to  eacli  tongue  oi*  piece  of  beef; 
rub  this  in  first,  tlien  a  plenty  of  salt.  Pack  down  in  salt ; 
after  it  has  remained  ten  or  twelve  days,  put  this,  with  a  few 
pods  of  red  pepper  cut  up  fine,  in  a  brine  of  only  salt  and  water, 
which  has  been  boiled,  sti-ained,  and  cooled,  and  strong  enough 
to  bear  an  egg.  Wash  a  rock  clean  and  place  on  the  beef  or 
tongues,  to  keep  them  under  the  brine.  This  will  keep  an 
indefinite  length  of  time.  Fit  for  use  in  two  weeks. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

To  Corn  Beef  or  Pork. 
^  50  pounds  meat. 

^i\  pounds  salt. 
1^  pounds  brown  sugar. 
\  pound  saltpetre, 
1  quart  molasses. 
Mix  well,  boil  and  skim.     When  milk-warm,  pour  it  over  the 
meat  with  a  ladle.     The  beef  must  be  soaked  in  clear  water  and 
wiped  dry,  before  putting  in  the  brine.     It  will  be  ready  for  use 
in  a  few  weeks.     Should  the  brine  mould,  skim  and  boil  again. 
Keep  the  meat  under  the  brine. — Mrs.  P.   W. 

To  Pickle  Tongue. 
Rub  it  well  with  salt  and  leave  it  alone  four  or  five  hours  ; 
pour  ofi"  the  foul  brine ;  take  two  ounces  saltpetre  beaten  fine, 
and  rub  it  all  over  the  tongue ;  then  mix  one-quarter  of  a  pound 
brown  sugar  and  one  ounce  sal-prunella  (the  bay  salt  and  sal 
prunella  beat  very  fine),  and  rub  it  well  over  the  tongue.  Let 
it  lie  in  the  pickle  three  or  four  days  ;  make  a  brine  of  one  gal- 
lon water  with  common  salt  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  a 
half-pound  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  saltpetre,  and  one-quarter 
of  a  pound  bay  salt.  Boil  one  quarter  of  an  hour,  skimming 
well ;  when  cold  put  in  the  tongue  ;  let  it  lie  in  the  pickle  four- 
teen days,  turning  it  every  day.     When  ready  to  use  take  it 


156       TO  COKN    BEEF HUNTEn's  BEEF,  OS,  SPICED  BOUND. 

out  of   the  pickle,  or  hang  it  in  wood  smoke  to  dry. — 3frs 
A.  M.  D. 

To  Corn  Beef. 
One  tablespoonful  saltpetre  to  each  piece  of  beef,  well  rubbed 
in.     Then  rub  in  as  much  salt  as  it  will  take.     Let  it  stand  ten 
or  twelve  days,  and  then  put  it  in  strong  brine.     Will  be  ready 
for  use  in  a  week. — Mrs.  Col.  A,  F 

Corned  Beef, 
Having  a  quarter  of  beef  cut  into  proper  size  and  shape 
for  nice  roasting  pieces,  put  it  in  a  barrel  of  weak  brine  and  let 
it  remain  four  days.     Then  make  a  brine  that  will  bear  an  egg, 
to  which  add : 

\  jiound  saltpetre. 
3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Transfer  the  beef  to  this  barrel,  cover  closely,  and  let  it 
remain  a  week.  Put  a  weight  on  the  meat  to  insure  its  being 
kept  under  the  brine.  Beef  thus  prepared  iu  January  will  keep 
well  through  the  month  of  March,  improving  with  the  lapse  of 
time.  It  is  best  served  cold.  A  valuable  receipt  for  country 
housekeepers. — Mrs.  Wrii.  A.  S. 

Hunter's  Beef,  or  Spiced  Round. 
To  a  round  of  beef  weighing  twenty-four  pounds,  take  . 
3  ounces  saltpetre. 
3  ounces  coarsest  sugar. 
1  ounce  cloves. 
1  nutmeg. 
■^  ounce  allspice. 
3  handfuls  salt. 
Beat  all  into  the  finest  powder ;  allow  the  beef  to  hang  three 
or  four  days  ;  remove  the  bone,  then  rub  the  S2)ices  well  into  it, 
continuing  tc   do  so  every  two  or  three  days,  for  two  or  three 
weeks. 

When  to  be  dressed,  dip  it  in  cold  water,  to  take  off  the 


HUNTEK's  bound,  or  spiced  beef SPICED  BEEF   157 

loose  spices,  bind  it  up  tightly  and  put  into  a  pan  with  a  tea- 
cupful  water  at  the  bottom.  Sprinkle  the  top  of  the  meat  with 
suet,  cover  it  over  with  a  thick  batter,  and  brown  paper  over  it. 
Bake  five  hours. — Mrs.  T.  G. 

Hunter's  Round,  or  Spiced  Beef. 
To  a  round  of  beef  that  weighs  twenty-five  ]  ounds,  take  the 
following : 

3  ounces  saltpetre. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  nutmeg. 

1  ounce  allspice. 

1  pint  salt. 
Let  the  round  of  beef  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place  twenty-foui 
hours.  Take  out  the  bone,  and  fill  the  space  with  suet  and 
spices  mixed.  Bub  the  above  ingredients  all  over  the  round  / 
put  in  a  wooden  box  or  tub,  turn  it  over  occasionally  and  rub  a 
small  quantity  of  salt  on  it.  Let  it  remain  three  weeks.  Then 
make  a  stiff  paste  of  flour  and  water,  cover  the  round  with  it 
and  set  in  the  oven.  Bake  three  hours  slowly.  Bemove  the 
paste  when  cold,  and  trim  neatly  the  rough  outside,  and  slice 
horizontally.     Served  only  when  cold. — Mrs.  TFi  A.  S. 

To  Spice  a  Round  of  Beef. 
Take  three  tablespoonfuls  saltpetre,  four  tablespoonfuls  brown 
sugar,  with  which  rub  your  beef  well.  Two  teacups  of  salt, 
one  teacup  of  cloves,  one  teacup  of  allspice  (the  spice  must  be 
ground  fine).  Bub  the  beef  with  these  ingredients.  But  it 
into  a  tub  as  near  the  size  of  the  beef  as  possible  ;  turn  it  every 
day  in  the  pickle  it  makes.  In  about  four  weeks  it  will  be 
ready  for  use.  For  thirty  pounds  use  two  pounds  beef  suet. 
When  cooked  place  sticks  across  the  bottom  of  the  pot  to  pre 
vent  its  burning. — Mrs.  H.  L.  P. 

Spiced  Beef. 
Take  eight  or  ten  pounds  of  the  thin  flank,  remove  any  gris 


158  TO   COOK   CORNET)   BEEF-TONGUE,   ETC. 

tie,  skin  or  bones  ;  rub  it  over  with  half  ounce  saltpetre,  hall 
ounce  bdy  salt,  then  rub  it  well  in  with  a  mixture  of  spices,  the 
the  following  proportions  being  used  : 

1  ounce  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  allspice. 

■^  ounce  ground  ginger. 

^  ounce  cloves. 

^  ounce  mace. 
Use  only  as  much  as  will  suffice  to  rub  the  beef  all  over  ;  then 
add   three  ounces  common  salt,  and  quarter  of  a  pound   coarse 
sugar. 

Let  the  beef  remain  a  fortnight  in  this  pickle,  turning  it  and 
rubbing  it  eveiy  day  :  then  take  it  out,  cover  it  with  the  spices 
and  chopped  sweet  herbs,  roll  it  very  tight,  tie  it  with  tape,  put 
it  into  a  pan  with  half-pint  water,  and  half-pound  suet. 

Bake  it  after  the  bread  has  been  drawn,  for  six  hours ;  put  a 
heavy  weight  upon  it,  and  when  cold  take  off  the  tape. 

To  Cook  a  Corned  Round  of  Beef. 
Wash  it  clean  of  the  brine,  sew  it  in  a  coarse  towel  and  boil 
six  to  eight  hours.  Do  not  remove  the  towel  until  next  day ; 
it  is  nicer  to  jiut  it  in  a  round  mould  and  gives  it  a  good  shape. 
When  perfectly  cold,  trim  nicely  and  cut  it  across  the  grain. — 
Mrs.  P.   W. 

To  Cook  Corned  Beef-Tongue,  etc. 
If  the  beef  has  been  in  brine  long  or  has  been  dried,  it  must 
be  soaked  in  cold  water  twelve  hours  before  boiling.  If  freshly 
cured  it  is  unnecessary.  The  beef  should  be  put  on  in  a  large 
pot  of  water  early  in  the  morning  and  simmer  for  hours.  Set 
the  pot  at  the  back  of  the  range  or  stove,  where  it  will  gently 
boil  during  the  preparation  of  dinner.  When  it  first  com 
mences  to  boil,  take  off  the  scum.  After  it  is  thoroughly  done, 
take  off  the  boiler  or  pot.  Set  away  with  the  beef  under  tho 
liquor  to  remain  until  next  day,  when  it  will  be  found  juicy  and 


TO   COOK   CORNED   BEEF — TO   OTJRE   FOR   DRYING,        159 

teuder.     With  a  sharp  knife  carefully  trim,  and  garnish  with 
scraped  horseradish  and  curled  pai'sley, — 3frs.  S.  T. 

How  TO  Cook  Corned  Beef. 
The  flank  is  a  nice  piece  to  corn ;  though  an  ugly  piece  of 
meat,  it  can  be  made  a  nice  and  delicious  dish.  Wash  the 
flank  clean,  roll  it  up  as  tight  as  you  can,  and  tie  it  with  strong 
cord  in  three  places ;  then  sew  it  up  in  a  coarse  towel  and  put 
it  on  and  boil  fi-om  five  to  six  hours,  according  to  size ;  take  it 
out  of  the  pot,  but  do  not  undo  it,  put  it  on  a  dish  or  pan  and 
put  a  weight  on  it ;  let  it  stand  until  next  day,  then  remove 
the  cloth  and  strings;  ti'im  it^and  you  have  a  nice  dish. — Mrs. 

P.  w. 

Smoked  Beef. 
To  a  piece  of  beef  weighing  about  twelve  or  fourteen  pounds, 
you  rub  in  the  following  : 
1  pint  salt. 
1  cup  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  molasses. 

■J  teaspoonful  pounded  saltpetre. 
Rub  this  well  on  the  beef  and  turn  it  several  times.     At  the 
end  of  ten  days  drain  it,  nib  bran  on  it,  hang  it  up  and  smoke 
for  several  days. — Mrs.  H.  T. 

To  Cure  Beef  for  Drying. 
This  recipe  keeps  the  meat  moist,  so  that  it  has  none  of  that 
toughness  dried  beef  mostly  has  when  a  little  old.  To  every 
twenty-eight  or  thirty  pounds,  allow  one  tablespoonful  saltpetre, 
one  quart  fine  salt,  mixed  with  molasses  until  the  color  is  about 
that  of  light  brown  sugar ;  rub  the  pieces  of  meat  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  when  done,  let  all  stick  to  it  that  will.  Pack  in  a  keg 
or  half-barrel,  that  the  pickle  may  cover  the  meat,  and  let  it 
remain  forty-eight  hours  ;  at  the  end  of  that  time,  enough  pickle 
will  be  formed  to  cover  it.     Take  it  out  and  hang  in  a  suitable 


160  TO   OTJRE   BEEF   HAM — STEWED   LOIN   OF    VEkL. 

place  for  drying.     Allow  all  the  mixture  to  adhere  to  the  meat 
that  wiW.—Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

To  Cure  Beep  Ham. 
Divide  tho  ham  into  three  parts ;  rub  on  half-pint  molasses  ; 
let  it  remain  in  this  molasses  a  day  and  two  nights,  turning  it 
over  occasionally  during  the  time.  Rub  on  then  one  handful 
salt  and  put  it  back  in  the  vessel  with  the  molasses ;  turn  it 
over,  morning  and  night  for  ten  days.  Hang  it  up  to  dry  for 
one  week,  then  smoke  a  little.  It  is  an  excellent  plan,  after  suf- 
ficiently smoked,  to  put  each  piece  of  beef  in  a  bag,  to  protect 
from  insects,  and  keep  hanging  till  used. — Miss  E.   Wi 

To  Dry  Beef  and  Tongue. 
The  best  pieces  are  the  brisket,  the  round  and  rib  pieces  that 
are  used  for  roasting.  Put  about  the  middle  of  February  in 
brine.  Rub  first  with  salt,  and  let  them  lie  for  a  fortnight,  then 
throw  them  in  brine  and  let  them  lay  there  three  weeks,  take 
them  out  and  wipe  dry :  rub  them  over  with  bran  and  hang  in 
a  cool  place  and  dark,  not  letting  them  touch  anything.  Should 
there  come  a  wet  season,  put  them  in  the  sun  to  dry  a  little. — 
Mrs.  R. 

Stewed  Loin  of  Veal. 

Take  part  of  a  loin  of  veal,  the  chump  end  will  do.  Put  it 
into  a  large,  thick,  well-tinned  iron  saucepan,  or  into  a  stew-pan, 
add  about  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  shake  it  over  a  moderate  fire 
until  it  begins  to  brown ;  flour  the  veal  well  over,  lay  it  in  a 
saucepan,  and  when  it  is  of  a  fine,  equal  light  brown,  pour  grad- 
ually in  veal  broth,  gravy  or  boiling  water,  to  nearly  half  its 
depth  ;  add  a  little  salt,  one  or  two  sliced  carrots,  a  small  onion, 
or  more  when  the  flavor  is  liked,  and  one  bunch  parsley. 

Stew  the  veal  very  softly  for  an  hour  or  rather  more,  then 
turn  it  and  let  it  stew  for  nearly  or  quite  another  hour  or 
longer,  should  it  not  appear  perfectly  done.     A   longer  time 


VEAL  CHOPS — ROAST  VEAL — VEAL  STEAK.     161 

must  be  allowed  when  the  meat  is  more  than  middling  size. 
Dish  the  joint ;  skim  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy  and  strain  it 
over  the  meat,  or  keep  the  joint  hot  while  it  is  rapidly  reduced 
to  a  richer  consistency. — Mrs.  tT. 

Veal  Chops. 
First  beat  until  tender,  then  lay  the  chops  in  a  pan,  pour  in 
just  enough  boiling  water  to  barely  cover  them.  Cover  closely 
and  simmer  till  tender,  sprinkling  over  after  they  are  nearly 
done,  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Lift  from  the  pan,  dry  with 
a  clean  towel,  butter  them,  then  cover  with  beaten  egg,  and  sift 
on  cracker  crumbs.  Lay  on  a  baking  dish  or  pan  and  set  in  the 
stove  to  brown.     Garnish  and  serve. — Mrs,  iS.  T. 

Roast  Veal. 
Pluuge  into  boiling  water,  dry  with  a  clean  cloth ;  rub  well 
with  pepper  and  salt,  then  with  butter.  Dredge  with  flour, 
and  put  into  a  pan  with  two  teacups  of  boiluig  water,  a  slice  of 
bacon  or  pork,  minced  onion  and  parsley,  pej^per  and  salt.  Set 
in  a  hot  oven ;  simmer,  baste  and  brown.  Veal  is  longer  cook- 
ing than  lamb.  When  a  light  brown,  with  a  pin,  stick  on 
a  buttered  jjaper  to  prevent  dryness.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
brown  flour,  if  brown  gravy  is  wanted,  but  always  with  mashed 
Irish  potato  if  white  gravy  is  desired. — Mrs.  S.   T. 

Veal  Steak. 
First  beat  until  it  is  tender,  then  without  washing  lay  on  a 
gridiron  over  coals  ;  turnover  it  a  tin  plate  to  prevent  hardness 
and  dryness.  Turn  the  steak,  and  when  well  done,  with  a  knife 
and  fork  press  it  and  turn  it  in  a  pan  or  plate  of  hot  melted 
butter.  After  putting  in  plate  of  hot  butter  and  letting  it 
absorb  as  much  of  the  butter  as  possible,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  pep- 
per and  salt  it  plentifully,  and  pour  over  the  melted  butter. 
(Set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  but  not  long  enough  for  the 
butter  to  fry,  which  is  ruinous  to  the  flavor  of  steaks,  game, 

14 


162  VEAL    CUTLETS. 

etc.)     When  done,  sift  over  grated  cracker.     Garnish  with  pars 
ley  and  sei-ve  hot. — Mrs.  /S.  T. 

Veal  Cutlet. 

Cut  the  veal  as  if  for  steak  or  frying,  put  lard  or  butter  in 
the  pan,  and  let  it  be  hot.  Beat  up  an  egg  on  a  plate  and  have 
flour  on  another ;  dip  the  pieces  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  the 
floui,  on  both  sides,  and  lay  in  the  pau  and  fry  until  done,  lurn- 
ing  it  carefuily  once.  This  makes  an  excellent  dish  if  well  pre- 
pared.    This  way  is  superior  to  batter. — Mrs.  D. 

Veal  Cutlet. 

Cut  it  in  pieces  the  size  of  your  hand,  and  lay  in  salt  water 
some  little  time.  Take  out  and  wipe  dry.  Put  a  small  piece 
of  lard  in  the  pan  and  sprinkle  the  cutlet  with  a  very  little 
flour,  pepper,  and  salt.  Fry  until  nearly  done.  When  it 
begins  to  brown,  poxir  ofi^  the  lard,  and  pour  in  a  little  water, 
one  large  spoonful  butter,  and  a  little  celery-seed.  Turn  it  over 
frequently. — Mrs.  W. 

Veal  Cutlets. 

Trim  smoothly  and  beat  till  tender,  sprinkle  over  pepper 
and  salt;  then  with  a  spoon  spread  over  an  egg  beaten  tUl 
thick,  and  cover  thickly  with  pounded  cracker. 

Have  some  hot  lard  ready  in  the  frying-pan,  put  the  cutlets  on 
to  fry,  with  the  prepared  side  down  ;  when  of  a  light  yellow 
brown,  dress  the  other  side  the  same  way  and  fry,  keeping 
closely  covered.  When  they  are  perfectly  done  (veal  should 
never  be  rare),  place  in  a  hot  dish;  pour  one  teacup  o' 
milk,  one  small  piece  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  minced  onion 
and  parsley  into  the  pan,  stirring  constantly.  When  it  boils 
up,  pour  into  the  dish  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Always  sift 
browned  cracker  over  such  dishes. — Mrs.  S.  T, 


gold  veal  dkessed  with  white  sauce.  163 

Cold  Veal  Dressed  with  White  Sauce. 

Boil  one  pint  milk  and  thicken  it  a  little  with  one  teaspoon 
ful  flour,  wet  with  cold  water.  When  well  boiled,  put  ir; 
very  thiai  slices  of  veal,  and  simmer  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Have  the  yolk  of  an  egg  well  beaten  up,  and  add  to  the  meat, 
also  a  piece  of  butter. 

Let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  serve  it  on 
toasted  slices  of  bread.  A  few  slices  of  bacon,  cut  thin  and 
fried  to  a  crisp,  make  a  good  relish  with  this  dish. — Mrs.  G.  P. 

Minced  Veal. 

Cut  some  slices  of  cold  veal  into  small  bits  or  dice ;  take  the 
cold  gravy  and  add  to  it  a  half-pint  of  boiling  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful  tomato  or  walnut  catsup,  the  grated  peel  of  one  lemon, 
pepper  and  salt. 

Simmer  it  with  the  meat  slowly  for  half  an  hour ;  then  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  flour  made  into  a  thin  batter  and  pour  it 
into  the  gravy,  stirring  it  rapidly.  Boil  for  ten  minutes  ;  turn 
in  one-half  cupful  cream,  or  same  quantity  of  milk  with  a  small 
piece  of  butter  ;  let  it  boil  up.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  garnished 
with  sippets  of  fried  bread. — 3Irs.  P. 

Veal  Loaf. 

2  pounds  chopped  veal. 
\  pound  chopped  pork. 

3  tablespoonfuls  powdered  cracker. 

1  tablespoonful  sage. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  mace. 
Salt  to  taste. 

1  egg  well  beaten  and  mixed  in  the  ingredients. 
Make  up  into   a  loaf  or  pone,  and  bake  slowly  three  and  & 
half  hours.     This  is  an  excellent  dish  to  use  with  lettuce,  etc. 


164  VBAL  LOAF — VEAL  OAKB. 

iu  the  spring  or  early  autumn,  when  game  is  out  of  season. 
It  is  best  to  be  made  the  da}  before  using. — M.rs.  K.  H. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Two  and  a  half  pounds  meat  taken  from  fillet  or  shoulder,  or 
wherever  the  meat  is  free  from  fat.  Take  out  all  the  little 
white,  fibrous  or  sinewy  particles,  and  chop  very  finely,  almost  to 
a  paste.  Mix  in  rolled  cracker  crumbs  with  one  egg  to  hold  it 
together,  a  little  butter,  red  and  black  pejjper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Form  into  a  small  loaf;  dredge  with  the  cracker  crumbs,  and 
put  several  little  pieces  of  butter  over  the  outside.  Set  this  loaf 
uncooked,  with  about  one  quart  water  or  some  broth,  in  a  pan ; 
put  it  in  the  oven  and  baste  constantly  for  two  hours,  and  when 
taken  out  to  cool,  pour  any  remaining  liquid  over  the  loaf.  It 
ought  to  cut  in  slices  and  be  quite  compact — no  caverns  in  the 
inside  of  the  loaf — Mrs.   Gr.  P. 

Veal  Cake. 

Take  one  and  a  half  pounds  veal,  and  half  a  pound  of  bacon, 
stew  together  with  very  little  water,  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
thyme  and  parsley. 

When  the  veal  is  tender,  cut  into  small  square  pieces,  as  also 
the  bacon. 

Boil  four  eggs  hard  and  slice  them  up,  and  chop  some  raw 
parsley  fine. 

Take  a  mould  or  small  bowl,  lay  the  slices  of  egg  in  a  kind 
of  pattern  prettily  at  the  bottom  of  it.  Sprinkle  the  parsley 
between  the  slices.  Add  veal,  bacon,  and  more  egg  alternattsly, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  also  some 
more  parsley,  and  so  on  until  the  bowl  is  nearly  full.  Fill  up 
with  the  gravy  the  veal  was  boiled  in,  which  ought  to  be  very 
rich.  Let  it  stand  until  quite  cold,  then  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish. 
The  slices  cut  firmer  and  more  solid  when  the  cake  is  made  the 
day  beforehand,  which  it  is  best  to  do  if  the  weather  perraits- 
— J/r*.  li.  P. 


BWEETBKEADS — OALF'b   LIVEB  BROILED.  165 

Sweetbreads. 

Three  good  throat  sweetbreads  will  make  a  dish.  Blanch 
them  well  and  lay  in  cold  water,  then  take  out  and  dry  well. 
Add  egg,  bread  crumbs,  and  herbs. 

Put  on  a  dish  and  brown  in  an  oven.  Eat  with  mushroom 
or  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  H. 

/Sweetbreads. 
Soak,  and  put  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Stew  in  cold  water  to  blanch  them. 

They  may  be  cut  in  slices  or  in  dice  and  put  in  fricassee  or 
meats,  or  ragouts,  or  used  as  a  separate  dish. — 3frs.  W. 

/Sweetbreads. 

Lay  them  in  salt  and  water,  after  washing  ;  parboil  until 
done ;  drain,  dry,  and  split  in  half.  Rub  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  Dip  in  one  egg  beaten  stift".  Sift  over  pounded 
cracker. 

Butter  a  baking-dish,  lay  them  in,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  to 
brown,  or  fry  until  a  light  brown. — Jifrs.  /S.  T. 

Calves'  Feet  dressed  as  Tekrapins. 

Boil  eight  feet  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bones,  then  remove 
them.  Put  them  in  a  pan  with  one-half  pint  of  the  rich  gravy 
in  which  they  are  boiled,  and  add  two  large  spoonfuls  butter. 

Bub  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  with  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  mustard,  a  very  little  cayenne,  and  salt  to  the  taste.    - 

When  well  mixed  with  tlie  egg,  stir  all  together  into  the  feet 
or  gravy.  Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes,  and  just  before  dishing 
add  two  wineglasses  of  good  cooking  wine  and  simmer  again 
before  serving. — Mrs.  M.  E.  L.  W. 

Calf's  Liver  Broiled. 
Cut  the  liver  in  thin  slices,  wash  it  and  let  it  stand  in  salt 
and  water  half  an  hour  to   draw  out  the   blood.     Parboil  in 


1 66    TO  FEY  calf's  LIVER SIMPLE  WAY  OF  COOKTNG  LIVBB 

fresh   salt  and  water,  and  broil,  basting  frequently  in  butter. 
Lay  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  lump  of  butter. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

To  Fry  Calf's  Liver. 

Cut  in  thin  slices.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  sweet  herbs, 
and  parsley. 

Dredge  with  flour  and  fry  brown  with  lard.  Have  it 
thoroughly  done,  but  it  must  not  be  hard  ;  keep  covered  while 
fryiug. — Mrs.  H^ 

Calf's  Liver  Frieb. 

A  calf's  liver,  as  white  as  can  be  procured,  flour,  one  bunch 
savoiy  herbs,  including  parsley,  j uice  of  a  lemon;  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  a  little  water. 

Cut  the  liver  into  slices  of  a  good  and  equal  shape.  Dip 
them  in  flour  and  fry  brown.  Place  on  a  hot  dish  and  keep 
before  the  fire  while  you  prepare  the  gravy.  Mince  the  herbs 
fine  and  put  into  the  frying-pan  with  a  little  more  butter  ;  add 
the  other  ingredients  with  one  teasjioonful  flour.  Simmer 
gently  until  the  herbs  are  done,  and  pour  over  the  liver. — Mrs. 
A.  M.  D. 

Bewitched  Liver. 

3  pounds  calf's  liver,  chopped  fine. 
\  pound  salt  pork. 

1  cup  gi-ated  bread  crumbs. 

2  eggs  well  beaten. 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper. 

^  teaspoonful  red  pepper. 
Mix  all  well  together,  and  put  into  a  tin  mould  ;  set  it  m  a 
pot  of  cold  water  and  let  it  boil  two  hours.     Then  set  the  mould 
in  a  cool  oven  to  dry  off"  a  little ;  when  thoroughly  cold  turn  it 
out.— Jfrs.  J.  H. 

Simple  Way  of  Cooking  Liver. 
Wash  calf's  liver  and  heart  thoroughly ;  chop  them  fine  as 


calf's   BKAIN8 — VEAL   DAHBE.  167 

possible,  after  they  have  been  boiled  till  very  tender ;  then  add 
pepper  and  salt,  and  one  tablespoonful  flour,  straining  into  it  a 
little  of  the  water.— Jfrs.  J.  P.  H. 

Calf's  Beains. 

Beat  up  the  brains  with  a  little  lemon-peel  cut  fine,  a  little 
nutmeg  grated,  a  little  mace  beaten,  thyme  and  parsley 

Shred  fine  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  dredge  with  flour.  Fry 
in  little  flat  cakes  and  lay  on  top  of  the  baked  head. 

If  for  soup,  mix  in  one-half  the  brains  with  the  soup  while 
the  soiip  is  boiling,  and  make  the  other  in  citkes  and  lay  together 
with  forcemeat  balls  in  the  soup. — Mrs.  R. 

Calf's  Head. 
Split  the  head,  take  out  the  brains,  boil  till  it  will  fall  to 
pieces.  Cut  it  up  fine  and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and,  nutmeg 
to  the  taste ;  add  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  wineglassful 
wine,  and  the  brains,  which  are  not  to  be  boiled  with  the 
head.  Put  in  a  dish  and  bake  with  or  without  pastu. — Mrs. 
J.D. 

Baked  Calf's  Head, 

Boil  until  tender,  then  cut  into  pieces  and  put  into  a  deep 
dish  with  pepper,  salt,  a  few  cloves,  mace,  a  little  thyme. 

A  spoonful  butter  with  flour,  well  mixed  through  the  meat, 
a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Then  add  a  wineglass  of  wine 
and  fill  up  the  dish  with  the  water  the  head  was  boiled  in,  and 
bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Garnish  with  forcemeat  balls 
and  rings  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  just  before  sending  to  the  table. 
—Miss  JV. 

Veal  daube. 
After  the  head  of  a  calf  is  skinned  and  the  feet  prepared  by 
taking  off"  the  hoofs,  scraping,  etc.,  throw  them  into  cold  water 
for  twenty-four  hours.    Put  them  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  and 


168  MUTTON    AND   LAMB. 

simmer  until  the  flesh  leaves  the  bones  and  there  is  but  little 
water  left. 

Throw  in  salt,  pepper,  minced  onion,  parsley,  and  thyme ; 
take  the  meat  and  bones  out.  Beat  up  two  eggs  until  light, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water,  then  the  liquor  from  the 
boiler.  Stir  all  together,  boil  up  and  strain  on  the  meat  from 
the  head,  which  must  first  be  cut  up  or  picked  fine  and  chopped 
with  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  seasoned  to  the  taste  with  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  wineglass  of  jelly.  This  is  set  aside  in 
a  mould  or  bowl  and  eaten  cold  with  garnish  of  scraped  horse- 
radish and  parsley.  The  calves'  feet  make  another  good  dish  by 
drying  first,  then  dipping  in  batter  made  of  an  egg,  one  spoon- 
ful of  flour,  one  small  teacupful  milk,  with  a  little  salt,  and 
frying.— i!frs.  /S.  T. 


MUTTON   AND   LAMB. 

When  the  weather  will  admit  of  it,  mutton  is  better  for 
being  kept  a  few  days  before  cooking.  The  saddle,  which  is 
considered  the  finest  piece,  consists  of  the  back  or  loin  and 
upper  part  of  the  hind  legs.  In  getting  this  nice  roast,  however, 
you  spoil  the  hind  quarter,  as  the  saddle  takes  some  of  the 
nicest  parts  of  this  and  leaves  it  too  dry  to  cook  by  itself.  The 
hind  quarter  and  loin  together  make  a  very  nice  dish — the 
latter  beiug  fat  and  juicy. 

The  fore  quarter  is  sometimes  cut  by  taking  ofi"  the  shoulder 
aud  taking  the  rib-piece,  making  a  piece  called  the  brisket  or 
bveasi:,  aud  many  persons  esteem  this  the  choicest  part  of  the; 
mutton.  The  ribs  cut  next  to  the  back  are  used  for  mutton 
chops. 

When  you  have  a  large  supply  of  mutton  on  hand,  it  is  well 
to  put  the  hind  quarters  in  brine,  as  you  can  thus  corn  them  as 


TO  ROAST  MUTTON ROAST  LEG  OF  MUTTON.     169 

nicely  as  beef.  As  mutton  spoils  easily,  this  plan  is  very  ad  • 
visable. 

Whilst  boiled  mutton  is  very  nice,  lamb  is  spoiled  by  this 
mode  of  cooking.  If  lamb  is  to  be  roasted,  it  should  be  cover- 
ed with  the  caul,  as  the  fat,  dripping  from  this,  will  preserve 
(■he  moisture  of  the  meat. 

In  carving  the  fore  quarter  of  lamb,  first  take  off  the  shoul- 
der and  then  cut  the  ribs  in  strips. 

Lamb  is  seldom  cut  except  in  quarters,  and  when  nicely  cook- 
ed there  is  nothing  better.  It  should  be  four  months  old  before 
being  eaten.  The  season  for  lamb  is  from  May  to  August, 
whilst  that  for  mutton  is  from  August  to  Christmas. 

To  EoAST  Mutton. 
The  hind  quarter  is  the  nicest  part  of  the  mutton  to  roast,  and 
requires  longer  to  cook  than  lamb.  Put  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water  and  let  it  simmer  one  hour.  Lift  it  into  a  baking-pan, 
rub  with  salt  and  pepper  (too  much  salt  makes  the  meat  tough). 
Rub  over  it  a  little  lard  and  then  dredge  with  flour :  skim  off 
the  top  of  the  water  and  pour  over  it.  Set  it  in  a  hot  oven, 
basting  frequently  to  prevent  it  from  being  hard  and  dry  ;  roast 
till  thoroughly  done.  This  is  nice  to  set  aside  for  a  cold  dish, 
garnished  with  horseradish  and  eaten  with  currant  jelly. — Mrs. 

p.  W. 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton. 
Choose  young  and  tender  mutton.  Take  off  the  shank — wash 
it  well ;  let  it  lie  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  salt  water  to 
take  the  blood  out.  Rub  with  little  salt  and  pepper  well. 
Lay  on  a  grate,  which  will  go  nicely  in  a  baking-pan,  over  one 
pint  boiling  water ;  break  the  bones  of  the  shank  in  the  water, 
adding  more  pepper  and  salt.  Set  it  in  a  very  hot  oven,  and 
baste  frequently  to  prevent  it  from  being  hard  and  dry.  Wlien 
it  is  of  a  light  brown,  cover  with  sheets  of  buttered  paper. 
Place  it  on  a  dish ;  add  minced  parsley  to  the  gravy,  which 
should  be  brown.     Cover  the  roast  with  grated  brown  cracker 

15 


170         EOAST   SADDLE   OF   MUTTON BROILED   MUTTON. 

and  garnish  at  intervals  with  chopped  parsley ;  pour  the  gravy 
in  the  dish,  not  over  it.  Mutton  should  always  be  perfectly 
done. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Roast  Saddle  of    Mutton. 
Trim  the  joint  carefully,  roast  it  at  a  brisk,  clear  fire ;  baste 
frequently,  and  when   done  dredge  it  plentifully  with  salt,  and 
.serve  with  the  gravy  well  freed  from  fat. 

To  Boil  a  Leg  op  Mutton. 
Make  a  paste  of  flour  quite  plain,  mixed  stiff  with  water,  roll 
out  as  for  a  meat  pudding ;  break  and  turn  in  the  shank  bone ; 
then  cover  the  leg  of  mutton  carefully  with  the  paste ;  tie  up 
tight  in  a  well-floured  cloth.  Have  ready  sufficient  boiling 
water,  place  in  the  joint,  allow  ten  minutes  for  checking  the 
boiling,  and  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat.  Carefully 
remove  the  paste,  which  can  be  done  by  one  cut  longitudinally 
and  one  cut  across.     Strain  the  gravy  and  serve  as  usual. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton. 
Dip  a  cloth  in  hot  water,  tie  up  the  mutton  and  put  in  boil- 
ing water.     Boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  or  longer,  if  not  kept 
constantly  boiling. — Mrs.  R. 

Broiled  Mutton. 
After  a  leg  of  mutton  has  been  washed  and  wiped  dry,  place 
in  a  cloth  that  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water.  Roll  it  up,  pin 
and  tie  securely  ;  put  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  simmer 
several  hours,  removing  the  scum  that  rises  when  it  first  begins 
to  boil.  If  a  small  leg  of  mutton,  it  will  require  a  shorter  time 
to  cook  than  a  large  one.  Just  before  it  is  done,  add  enough  salt 
to  season  it  properly,  half  an  onion,  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper.  When  this  has  properly  seasoned  the  meat,  takf 
from  the  fire,  unwrap  and  drain.  Serve  with  drawn  butter, 
adding  capers  or  nasturtium  seed,  or  if  you  have  neither,  use 


TO   COOK   A   SADDLE   OF   MUTTON — TO   CORN   MUTTON.      171 

chopped  sour  pickle  instead.     Mutton  should  always  be  served 
with  caper  sauce,  if  possible. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Cook  a  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Meats  are  all  better  for  being  kept  a  day  or  two  before  cook- 
ing, particularly  mutton.  If  the  mutton  be  tender,  do  not  boil  it, 
but  put  it  in  a  pan  of  water,  set  it  on  the  stove,  and  cook 
slowly,  basting  constantly  with  the  gravy  or  water  in  the  pan ; 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Just  before  it  is  done,  put  some 
scraped  horseradish  over  it,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  the 
same;  add  a  little  ground  mustard  and  grated  bread  or  cracker; 
pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and  grate  bread  over,  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  Tliis  is  for  cold  mutton.  All  meats  are  better  for  roast- 
ing before  a  fire  than  in  a  stove. — Mrs.  P.  Wi 

Saddle  of   Mutton. 

This  should  be  covei-ed  with  paper,  and  carefully  roasted  or 
baked.  Season  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  garnish  with 
horseradish. 

Iced  Saddle  of  Mutton. 
Reserve  the  drippings  from  the  meat  when  it  is  roasting. 
After  the  saddle  is  nicely  cooked,  let  it  get  cold.  Then  take 
the  white  part  of  the  gravy  and  melt  it  to  the  consistency  of 
cream.  Pour  this  over  the  saddle  until  it  is  covered  with  a 
white  coat ;  if  it  appears  rough,  warm  an  iron  spoon  and  pass 
ove-r  it  until  it  is  smooth.  Place  it  on  a  dish,  and  dress  the 
dish  all  round  with  vegetable  flowers  and  curled  parsley,  using 
the  parsley  to  ornament  the  saddle  also. — Mrs.  Judge  S. 

To  Corn  Mutton. 
Mutton  being  less  apt  to  keep  than  other  meat,  it  is  well, 
when  you  have  an  over-supply,  to  corn  it  exactly  as  you  would 
corn  heet—Miss  H.  /S. 


172       shoulder  of  mutton  corned — mutton  chop. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  Corned. 
Take  a  small  slioulder  of  mutton,  rub  it  with 
2  ounces  salt. 
2  ounces  sugar. 
^  ounce  saltpetre. 
After  twenty-four  hours,  rub  it  again  with  the  pickle ;  next 
day  boil  this  in  paste  like  the  leg  of  mutton.     Serve  smothered 
in  onion  sauce. 

Mutton  Chop. 

Get  from  your  butcher  nicely  shaped  mutton  chops,  not  too 
long.  Put  them  into  a  pan  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  barely 
enough  water  to  cover  them. 

Cover  close  and  simmer  till  done  ;  drain,  wipe  dry ;  pepper, 
salt  and  butter  them ;  with  a  spoon,  cover  with  an  egg  beaten 
stiff.  Sift  over  pounded  crackers.  Put  in  a  pan  and  set  in  an 
oven  to  brown. — 3Irs.  S.  T. 

Mutton  Chops  dressed  with  Tomatoes. 

Place  in  a  pan  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped ;  season  with 
biitter,  pepper,  sugar,  and  salt. 

Take  from  your  gridiron  some  nicely  broiled  mutton  chops ; 
put  into  a  pan,  cover  close,  and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Lay  the  chops  on  a  hot  dish,  put  on  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt. 

With  a  spoon,  cover  each  chop  with  tomatoes.  Sift  over 
pounded  cracker  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Mutton  Chop. 
Cut  the  steaks ;  pepper  and  salt  them.  Broil  them  lightly 
on  both  sides ;  take  them  off  the  gridiron,  lay  them  on  a  sjiidei'. 
Slice  up  one  large  onion  and  stew  until  it  becomes  tender  ;  put 
a  layer  between  each  chop  and  stew  until  they  become  tender. 
Take  out  the  steaks,  cover  them  closely  or  tilt  the  gravy  to  the 
side  of  the  vessel,  till  it  is  brown ;  stir  in  a  lump  of  butter.— 
Mrs.  A.  P. 


MUTTON   CHOP — MUTTON    STEW.  173 

Mutton    Chop. 
Mushroom  catsup  is  a  nice  flavoriug.     Put  pepper  and  salt 
on  the  chops  and  lay  them  in  melted  butter ;  when  they  have 
imbibed  sufficient,  take  out  and  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs 
and  broil. — Mrs.  H. 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops. 
Beat  the  mutton  chops  till  tender  ;  then  trim,  making  them 
of  uniform  size  and  shape  ;  pour  on  them  boiling  water.  Let 
them  remain  in  it  a  minute,  dry  them  and  rub  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  fresh  butter.  Lay  on  a  gridiron  over  hot  coals,  always 
remembering  to  cover  them  while  broiling.  Turn  them,  and  as 
soon  as  nicely  browned  place  in  a  hot  dish,  pepper  again,  pour 
over  them  melted  butter,  and  serve. — Mrs.  /S.  T. 

Mutton  Stew. 
Cut  slices  of  rare  mutton  and  put  on  to  stew  in  a  little  water ; 
when  nearly  done  put  in — 

1  teacup  of  sweet  pickle  vinegar. 
3  large  spoonfuls  jelly. 
A  little  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  mustard. 
\  teacup  of  walnut  catsup. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Stew  slowly  a  short  time. — Mrs.  F.  D. 


Mutton  Stew. 
Slice  cold  mutton  or  lamb,  lay  it  in  a  baking  dish ;  put  iu — 
1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
I  teaspoonful  red  pepper, 
1  teaspoonful  celery-seed,  pounded. 

Rather  more  than  .1  teaspoonful  each  of  povinded  cloves,  cin- 
namon and  mace. 

1  teacup  of  yellow  pickle  vinegar. 
1  glassful  wine. 


174        GRILLED   SLICES   OF   MUTTON — TO   KOAST   LAMB. 

Slice  up  a  little  yellow  pickled  cucumber,  sugar  to  taste,  one- 
quarter  pound  butter,  one  roll  of  light  bread  broken  in  small 
pieces  or  cut  in  little  slices,  and  toasted  before  used. 

In  preparing  this  dish  put  a  layer  of  the  meat  and  seasonings 
alternately. 

The  peppers,  celery-seed,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  mace  must  all 
be  pounded  fine. — Mrs.  G. 

Grilled  Slices  of  Mutton. 
Cut  some  rather  thick  slices  of  underdone  cold  mutton,  score 
them  well  and  rub  in  plentifully  some  common  mustard,  salt, 
and  cayenne  pepper ;  then  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire,  and 
serve  with  onion  sauce. 

Sheep's  Tongues. 

Boil  them  till  the  skin  can  be  taken  off;  split  them,  and  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  some  gravy,  parsley,  mushrooms,  and 
one  minced  shallot,  and  some  butter,  some  pepper,  and  salt. 

Stew  till  tender,  and  strain  the  gravy  over  them ;  or  they 
may  be  glazed  and  served  with  the  gravy  under  tliem.  Sheep's 
tongues  may  also  be  skinned,  larded,  braised,  and  glazed ;  and 
served  with  onion  sauce. 

To  EoAST  Lamb. 
The  bind  quarter  is  the  nicest  piece  for  roasting.  Drop  it  in 
a  pot  of  boiling  water  ;  boil  half  an  hour,  put  it  in  a  pan,  dredge 
it  with  lard,  pepper,  flour,  a  little  salt ;  skim  the  top  of  the 
water  in  which  it  is  boiled,  and  pour  over  it ;  as  soon  as  the 
gravy  accumulates  in  tbe  pan  keep  it  basted  frequently  to  pre- 
vent it  from  being  hard  and  dry.  Lamb  should  be  cooked  done 
to  be  good. — 3frs.  P.  W. 

To  Grill  a  Shoulder  of  Lamb. 
Half  boil  it,  score  and  cover  it  with  egg,  crumbs,  and  parsley 
seasoned  as  for  cutlets      Broil  it  over  a  very  clear,  slow  fire,  or 


lamb's  head  fkicassee — lamb's  head.  175 

put  it  in  a  Dutch  oven  to  brown  it ;  serve  with  any  sauce  that 
is  liked.     A  breast  of  lamb  is  often  grilled  in  the  same  way. 

Lamb's  Head  to  Fricassee. 

Parboil  the  head  and  haslet  (the  liver  excepted)  ;  cut  the 

meat  in  slices  from  the  head ;  slice  the  heart,  tongue,  etc.,  and 

fricassee  as  for  chicken.     Have  the  liver  fried  lq  slices  with  the 

sweetbreads  and  slices  of  bacon  and  bunches  of  parsley.     Pour 

the  fricassee  into  the  dish,  and  garnish  with  the  fried  pieces.^ — 

Mrs,  B. 

Lamb's  Head. 

Boil  the  head  and  liver,  but  so  as  not  to  let  the  liver  be  too 
much  done.  Take  up  the  head,  split  it  through  the  bone,  which 
must  remain  with  the  meat  on.  Cut  the  meat  across  and 
across  with  a  knife,  grate  some  nutmeg  on  it  and  lay  it  on  a 
dish  before  a  good  fire ;  then  throw  over  it  some  grated  bread 
crumbs,  some  sweet  herbs,  some  allspice,  a  little  lemon  peel 
chopped  fine,  a  very  little  pepper  and  salt.  Baste  it  with 
butter,  and  dredge  a  little  flour  over  it. 

Just  as  it  is  done,  take  one-half  the  liver,  the  lights,  the 
meat,  the  tongue ;  chop  them  small  with  six  or  eight  spoonfuls 
water  or  gravy.  First  shake  some  flour  over  the  meat  and  stew 
it  together;  then  put  in  the  gravy  or  water,  a  good  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  a  little  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  what  runs 
from  the  head  in  the  dish.  Simmer  all  together  a  few  minutes, 
and  add  half  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  ;  pour  it  on  the  head.  Lay 
the  head  on  the  centre  of  the  mince-meat;  have  ready  the  other 
half  of  liver,  cut  in  pieces  and  fried  quickly  with  slices  of  bacon 
and  lemon ;  lay  these  around  the  dish  and  serve. — Mrs.  T. 

Decorations  and  Garnishes  for  Cold  Meats  and  Salads. 
The  day  before  giving  a  diuner  or  evening  entertainment, 
gather  up  medium  and  small  sized  pure  white  and  yellow  tui-- 
nips,  carrots,  red  and  pink  beets,  the  different  colored  radishes. 
From  these  the  most  beautiful  flowers  can  be  cut :  camellias, 


176  POULTKY. 

roses,  dahlias,  tulips,  tuberoses,  etc.  No  explicit  directions  can 
be  given  except,  first,  smoothly  to  pare  each  vegetable,  taking 
care  not  to  keej)  them  too  near  the  fire,  which  will  cause  them 
to  wilt  and  lose  the  waxy  freshness  which  makes  them  so 
beautiful.  Each  flower  may  be  laid  on  a  cluster  of  green  leaves 
or  curled  parsley,  and  over  the  cold  meats,  and  around  the  edge 
of  the  dish. 

The  cutting  of  these  flowers  makes  a  charming  and  interest- 
ing pastime  for  the  young  members  of  the  family,  in  the  even- 
ing before. — Mrs.  C.  G. 


POULTRY. 


In  summer,  kill  and  dress  the  poultry  the  day  beforehand, 
except  chicken  for  frying,  which  is  not  good  unless  killed  the 
same  day  it  is  eaten. 

The  best  way  to  kill  a  fowl  is  to  tie  it  by  its  legs,  hang  it  up, 
and  then  cut  off  its  neck.  In  this  way,  it  dies  more  quickly, 
suffers  less,  and  bleeds  more  freely. 

It  is  best  to  pick  fowls  dry ;  though,  if  you  are  pressed  for 
time,  you  may  facilitate  the  picking  of  chickens,  as  well  as  of 
partridges  and  other  small  birds,  by  putting  them  first  into 
water,  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Then  take  off  the  feathers  carefully, 
so  as  not  to  break  the  skin.  Never  scald  a  turkey,  duck  or 
goose,  ho^v  ever,  before  picking. 

To  draw  the  crop,  split  the  skin  of  all  poultr}'^  on  the  back  of 
the  neck.  Pull  the  neck  upward  and  the  skin  downward,  and 
the  crop  can  be  easily  pulled  out.  Then  cut  off  the  neck  close 
to  the  body,  leaving  the  skin  to  skewer  at  the  back  of  the  neck 
after  the  aressing  has  been  put  in.  Make  an  incision  under 
the  rump  lengthwise,  sufficient  to  allow  the  entrails  to  be  easily 
removed.     Be  careful  not  to  break  the  gall,  and  to  preserve  the 


POULTKY.  177 

liver  whole.  Cut  open  the  gizzard,  take  out  the  inuer  skin, 
and  wash  both  carefully.  Wash  the  bird  inside  several  times, 
the  last  time  with  salt  and  water.  Some  persons  object  to 
using  water  inside  or  outside,  but  I  consider  it  more  cleanly  to 
wash  the  bird  first  and  then  wipe  it  dry  with  a  clean  towel. 
It  should  then  be  hung  with  the  neck  downwards  till  ready  to 
cook. 

The  head,  neck,  and  feet,  after  being  nicely  washed  and  the 
bones  in  them  broken,  should  be  stewed  in  the  gi'avy,  as  they 
make  it  much  richer. 

It  is  said  that  throwing  chickens  into  cold  water  immediately 
after  they  have  finished  bleeding,  and  allowing  them  to  remain 
there  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  will  make  them  deliciously  tender, 
which  can  be  accounted  for  scientifically.  Frozen  fowls  or  game 
should  be  thawed  gradually,  by  being  laid  in  cold  water.  If 
cooked  without  being  thawed,  it  will  require  double  time,  and 
they  will  not  be  teuder  nor  high-flavored. 

The  tests  by  which  you  may  tell  the  age  of  a  turkey  are 
these.  An  old  turkey  has  rough  and  red  legs,  and  if  a  gobbler, 
long  spurs,  while  young  turkeys  have  black  legs,  and  if  gobblers, 
small  spurs.  The  fatter  they  are  and  the  broader  their  breasts, 
the  better.  When  dressed,  the  skin  should  be  a  yellowish 
white,  and,  if  tender,  you  may  easily  lip  it  with  a  pin.  If, 
when  you  bend  back  the  wings,  the  sinews  give  and  crack, 
this  is  another  test  of  the  turkey  being  young,  and  the  same 
test  will  apply  to  other  fowls.  The  bill  and  feet  of  an  old 
goose  are  red  and  haiiy.  A  young  goose  has  pen  feathers  and 
its  flesh  is  whiter  than  that  of  an  old  one. 

If  young,  the  lower  part  of  a  hen's  legs  and  feet  are  soft  and 
smooth,  while  a  young  cock  has  small  spurs.  When  dressed, 
the  flesh  should  be  white  and  the  fat  a  pale  yellow.  Turn  the 
wing  back,  and  if  the  sinews  snap  it  is  a  sign  the  chicken  is 
young. 

A  few  words  on  the  subject  of  carving  may  not  be  out  of 
place  here.     A  sharp  knife,  with  a  thin    and    well  tempered 


178  KOAST   TDKKEY. 

blade  is  essential  to  good  carving.  In  carving  a  turkey,  cut  ofl 
first  the  wing  nearest  to  you,  then  the  leg  and  second  joint, 
then  slice  the  breast  till  a  rounded,  ivory-shaped  piece  appears. 
Insert  the  knife  between  that  and  the  bone,  and  separate  them. 
This  part  is  the  nicest  bit  of  the  breast.  Next  comes  the 
merry-thought.  After  this,  turn  over  the  bird  a  little,  and  just 
below  the  breast  you  will  find  the  oyster,  which  you  will  sepa- 
rate as  you  did  the  inner  breast.  The  side  bone  lies  beside  the 
rump,  and  the  desired  morsel  can  be  taken  out  without  separat- 
ing the  whole  bone.  Proceed  with  the  other  side  in  the  same 
way.  The  fork  need  not  be  removed  during  the  whole  process. 
Chicken  and  partridges  are  carved  in  the  same  way. 

KOAST    TUKKEY. 

Wash  nicely  in  and  out.     Plunge  into  boiling  water  ten  min- 
utes.    Have  ready  a  dressing  of 

Bread  crumbs. 

Hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Minced  jjarsley,  thyme  and  celery. 
After  rubbing  the  cavity  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put- 
ting in  a  slice  of  pork  or  bacon,  fill  with  the  above  dressing. 
Do  the  same  also  to  the  crop,  so  as  to  make  the  turkey  look 
plump.  Rub  the  turkey  well  with  butter  and  sprinkle  salt  and 
pepper  over  it.  Dredge  with  flour.  Lay  in  the  pan  with  a 
slice  of  pork  or  bacon  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Lay  the 
liver  and  gizzard  in  the  pan  with  it.  Put  in  a  hot  oven,  bast- 
ing and  tui-ning  frequently  till  every  part  is  a  beautiful  brown. 
When  the  meat  is  amber  color,  pin  a  buttered  sheet  of  writing 
paper  over  it  to  keep  it  from  becoming  hard  and  dry.  Cook 
three  or  four  hours.  Season  the  gravy  with  minced  parsley  and 
celery  and  serve  with  cranberry  sau>oe. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Roast  Turkey. 
Wash  the  turkey  thoroughly  inside  and  out,  having  removed 


KOAST   TURKEY — K0A8T   TURKEY,    WITH    TRUFFLES.      1Y9 

the  insides.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  soaked  in  cold  water, 
drained  and  mashed  fine,  a  small  piece  of  melted  butter  or 
salt  pork  chopped,  pepper  and  salt,  sweet  herbs,  a  hard  boiled 
egg,  chopped  fine. 

An/  kind  of  cooked  meat  is  good,  minced  fine  and  added  to 
the  dressing.  The  body  and  crop  must  be  filled  with  the  dress- 
ing and  sewed  up.  The  giblets  ought  to  be  boiled  tender,  if 
they  are  to  be  used.  Use  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled, 
for  gravy,  adding  a  little  of  the  turkey  drippings,  seasoning 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs,  and  thickening  with  a  little 
flour  and  water,  mixed  smoothly.     Place  where  it  will  boil. 

When  the  fowl  is  put  on  to  roast,  put  a  little  water  into  the 
drippiug-pan.  At  first  it  should  be  roasted  slowly  and  basted 
frequently.  Tie  up  the  wings  and  legs  before  roasting,  and  rub 
on  a  little  butter  and  salt.   Serve  with  drawn  butter. — Mrs.  Wl 

Roast  Turkey. 

Put  the  gizzard,  heart  and  liver  in  cold  water  and  boil  till 
tender.  When  done,  chop  fine  and  'add  stale  bread,  grated,  salt 
and  pepper,  sweet  herbs,  if  liked,  two  eggs  well  beaten. 

Fill  the  turkey  with  this  dressing,  sew  the  openings,  drawing 
the  skin  tightly  together.  Put  a  little  butter  over  the  turkey 
and  lay  it  upon  the  grate  of  your  meat-pan.  Cover  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  well  with  boiling  water.  In  half  an  hour,  baste  the 
turkey  by  pouring  over  it  the  gravy  that  has  begun  to  form  in 
the  pan.  Repeat  this  basting  every  fifteen  minvites.  In  an 
oven  of  average  temperature,  a  twelve-pound  turkey  will  re- 
quire at  least  three  hours'  cooking. — 3Ir&,  A.  D. 

Roast  Turkey,  with  Truffles. 
Truffles  must  be  peeled,  chopped  and  pounded  in  a  mortar ; 
one  and  a  half  pound  will  do  for  one  turkey.  Rasp  the  same 
amount  of  fat  bacon  and  mix  with  the  truffles  and  stuff  the 
turkey  with  it.  This  dressing  is  usually  placed  in  the  turkey 
two  days  beforehand,  to  impart  its  flavor  to  the  fowl.     Lay 


180  BOILED  TURKEY ^TO   BTBAM   A    TUBKBT. 

thin  slices  of  fat  bacon  over  the  breast  of  the  turkey,  cover  it 
•with  half  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  and  roast  two  hours.  Chest- 
nuts dressed  in  the  same  way  as  truffles  are  found  an  excellent 
substitute. — Mrs.  S.  G. 

Boiled  Turkey. 
Wash  well  with  cold  water,  then  put  on  in  milk- warm  water, 
either  tied  in  a  coarse  cloth  dredged  with  flour  or  with  a  half- 
pound  of  rice  in  the  water.  Keep  well  under  water,  and  boil 
slowly  three  hours,  adding  salt  just  before  it  is  done.  When 
perfectly  done  and  tender,  take  out  of  the  pot,  sprinkle  in  the 
cavity  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  with  oysters  stewed  just 
enough  to  plump  them,  and  season,  with  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  vinegar.  Place  in  a  dish  and  set  in  a  steamer  to  keep  hot. 
Strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  oysters  were  scalded,  add  drawn 
butter,  chopped  celery,  parsley  and  thyme;  pour  over  the  turkey, 
and  serve.  If  not  convenient  to  use  oysters,  use  egg  and  butter 
sauce.     Garnish  with  sliced  lemons. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Hoiled  Turkey. 
Prepare  the  turkey  as  for  roasting.  Tie  it  in  a  cloth  or  boil 
rice  in  the  pot  with  it,  if  you  wish  it  to  look  white.  It  is  im- 
j)roved  by  boiling  a  pound  or  two  of  salt  pork  with  it.  If  soup 
is  made  of  the  liquor,  let  it  stand  till  next  day  and  skim  the 
fat.     Season  after  heating. — Mrs.  Wl 

To  Steam  a  Turkey. 
Rub  butter,  pepper  and  salt  inside  the  turkey  after  it  has 
been  well  washed,  fill  with  oysters,  sew  up,  lay  in  a  dish  and  set 
in  a  steamer  placed  over  boiling  water.  Cover  closely  and 
steam  from  two  hours  to  two  and  a  half.  Take  up,  strain  the 
gi-avy  wliich  will  be  found  in  the  dish.  Have  an  oyster  sauce 
ready,  prepared  like  stewed  oysters,  and  pour  into  it  this  gravy 
thickened  with  a  little  butter  and  flour.  Let  it  come  to  a  boi 
and  whiten    with  a  little  boiled  cream.     Pour  this  over   the 


TDBKBY  HABH — BONED  TURKEY.  181 

steamed  turkey  and  send  to  the  table  hot.     Garnish  with  sliced 
lemons. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Turkey  Hash. 
Cut  up  the  meat  very  fine.  Stew  the  bones  in  a  little  water, 
then  stir  into  this  water  the  meat,  adding  a  large  tablespoonful 
butter,  a  cup  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
thyme  or  celery  (or  else  a  very  few  celery-seeds).  Stew  all 
together. — Mrs.  R. 

Devilled  Turkey. 
Place  the  legs  and  wings   (jointed)   on  a   gridiron.     Broil 
slowly.     Have  ready  a  sauce  made  of — 

1  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar. 
1  tablespoonful  made  mustard. 
1  tablespoonful  celery  sauce. 
1  tablespoonful  acid  fruit  jelly. 
A  little  salt  and  pepper. 
Lay  the  broiled  turkey  on  a  hot  dish.     Pour  the  dressing 
and  sift  pounded  cracker  over  it. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Potato  Stuffing  for  Turkeys  and  other  Fowls. 

Mash  smoothly  six  good -sized  boiled  Irish  potatoes.  Chop  a 
small  onion  very  fine  and  fry  a  light  brown,  in  a  frying-pan, 
with  a  dessertspoonful  lard.  Then  add  the  potatoes  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut.  To  tlus 
add  one  well  beaten  egg,  stirz'ing  till  perfectly  dry.  If  for  geese 
or  ducks,  add  a  little  sifted  sage  and  a  small  quantity  of  red 
pepper. — Mrs.  McG. 

Boned  Turkey. 

The  turkey  must  be  full  grown,  moderately  fat,  and  picked 
dry.  Do  not  remove  the  entrails.  Cut  off  the  neck  about  one 
inch  from  the  body.  Take  ofi'the  wings  above  the  second  joint 
and  cut  off  the  legs  as  usual.  "With  a  sharp  pointed  knife, 
snlit  the  skin  from  the  end  of  the  neck  to  the  rump.  Run  the 
knife  between  the  bones  and  flesh  on  one  side,  till  yon  come  to 


182  BONED  TUEKET. 

wliere  the  wing  and  leg  join  the  body.  Twist  the  wing  and 
raise  it,  cracking  the  joint.  Separate  it  from  the  body.  Then 
proceed  with  the  leg  in  the  same  way,  on  the  same  side.  Run 
the  knife  between  the  bones  and  flesh  till  you  reach  the  breast 
bone.  Repeat  this  on  the  other  side.  Take  out  the  craw. 
Carefully  run  a  shai-p  knife  under  the  rump,  detaching  it  from 
the  bone  without  cutting  the  skin,  as  it  must  come  off  with  the 
flesh.  Hold  the  turkey  by  the  neck  and  pull  the  skin  carefully 
down,  until  the  upper  part  of  the  breast  bone  is  uncovered. 
Cut  the  flesh  from  the  bone  on  both  sides,  till  the  end  of  the 
bone  is  nearly  reached.  The  turkey  must  now  be  laid  on  the 
back  and  held  by  the  neck,  the  front  of  the  turkey  being  toward 
3'ou.  Take  hold  of  the  skin  of  the  neck  with  the  left  hand, 
pulling  downwards  with  a  knife  in  the  right  hand,  separate  the 
skin  from  the  end  of  the  bone.  The  whole  of  the  turkey  is  now 
detached  from  the  carcass.  Lay  it  on  a  table  with  the  skin 
down.  Pull  the  bones  from  the  wings  and  legs,  first  running 
the  knife  around  so  as  to  leave  the  flesh.  Pull  out  all  the' ten- 
dons of  the  legs.  Push  them  and  the  wings  inside.  Cut  off 
the  ring  under  the  rump.  All  this  must  be  done  slowly  and 
carefully.  Have  ready  a  half-dozen  slices  of  salt  pork,  and  a 
salad  made  of  shoat,  veal  or  lamb,  chopped  and  seasoned,  as 
turkey  salad,  with  celery,  etc.  Mix  with  this  salad  three  or 
four  large  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  with  a  spoonful  of 
butter.  Now  lay  the  turkey  on  the  table,  inside  up  and  the 
neck  from  you ;  pepper  and  salt  it ;  lay  three  or  four  slices  of 
pork  on  it,  then  a  layer  of  the  salad ;  pork  again  and  salad 
alternately  i;ntil  filled ;  draw  the  two  sides  together  and  sew 
it  up,  giving  it  as  near  as  possible  its  proper  shape.  Sew  it  up 
carefully  in  a  cloth,  place  in  a  kettle  of  the  proper  shape, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  adding  the  broken  bones,  three  pounds 
fresh  lean  beef,  parsley,  thyme,  onions  and  two  dozen  whole 
black  peppercorns,  with  salt  to  the  taste.  Simmer  three  hours, 
then  take  it  from  the  water  and  remove  the  towel.  Carefully 
remove  all  discolorations  and  settlings  of  the  water  from  the 


MEAT  JELLY   FOR  BONED   TTJKKET.  18S 

turkey.  Scald  a  clean  clotli,  wrap  it  up  again;  plaje  it  on  its 
back,  put  a  disli  over  it  with  a  weight  on  it  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place  till  next  day.  Unwrap  and  remove  the  twine  with  which 
it  was  sewed.  Glaze  it  with  a  little  meat  jelly ;  just  before 
the  jelly  congeals  sift  over  a  little  cracker  browned  and 
pounded  ;  decorate  with  meat  jelly  and  serve.  Directions  for 
preparing  meat  jelly  follow. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Meat  Jelly  for  Boned  Turkey. 

As  soon  as  the  water  in  which  the  turkey  was  boiled  is  cold, 
take  oif  all  the  fat  and  strain  it,  put  it  in  a  porcelain-lined 
kettle ;  two  ounces  gelatine,  three  eggs,  with  shells,  a  wine- 
glass of  sherry,  port  or  madeira  wine  ;  stir  well.  Add  one 
quart  of  the  strained  liquor;  beat  rapidly  with  an  egg-beater, 
put  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Simmer  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Sprinkle  in  a  pinch  of  turmeric  and  strain  just  as 
any  other  jelly.  When  congealed  break  it  up  and  place  around 
the  turkey.  Cut  some  in  thick  slices  and  in  fanciful  shapes 
with  paste  cutters.  Place  some  of  these  lozenges  over  the 
turkey  and  border  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  them. — Mn. 
S.  T. 

Chickens. 

These,  whether  for  boiling  or  roasting,  should  have  a  dress- 
ing prepared  as  for  turkeys.  Six  spoonfuls  of  rice  boiled  with 
the  chickens  will  cause  them  to  look  white.  If  the  water  is  cold 
when  they  are  put  in,  they  will  be  less  liable  to  break.  They 
are  improved  by  boiling  a  little  salt  pork  with  them.  If  not 
thus  boiled,  they  will  need  salt. 

For  broiling,  chickens  should  be  split,  the  inwards  taken  out, 
and  the  chickens  then  washed.  Broil  very  slowly  till  done, 
placing  the  bony  side  down  ;  then  turn  it  and  brown  the  other 
side.     Forty  minutes  is  the  medium  time  for  broiling  a  chicken. 

For  roast  .'  hicken,  boil  the  gizzard  and  liver  by  themselves, 
and  use  the  water  for  gravy. — Mrs.  Col.  Wi 


184  roast  chioken ^to  steam  chicken. 

Roast  Chicken. 

Cliicken  sliould  never  be  cooked  the  same  day  it  is  killed. 
Wash  "Well  with  cold  water,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and 
into  the  cavity.  Rub  the  latter  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fill 
with  a  dressing  made  of  bread  soaked  in  water  and  squeezed 
out,  a  tablespoonful  biitter,  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  parsley. 

Rub  the  chicken  well  with  butter.  Sprinkle  pepper  and  salt 
over  it  and  dredge  with  flour.  Lay  it  into  a  pan  with  a  slice  of 
pork  or  bacon  and  a  pint  of  water.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  two 
hours,  basting  and  dredging  frequently.  Turn  the  chicken  so 
each  part  may  be  equally  browned.  Add  chopped  thyme  and 
parsley  to  the  gravy. 

Some  persons  think  ground  ginger  a  more  delicate  flavoring 
for  the  dressing  than  pepper. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Boil  Chicken. 

Never  boil  the  same  day  the  chicken  is  killed.  Soak  them 
overnight  in  weak  salt  and  water.  Place  in  a  kettle  of  water, 
with  a  handful  of  rice  and  a  little  milk  to  make  the  chicken 
white.  Simmer  slowly  two  or  tliree  hours,  removing  tlie  scum 
that  rises  when  the  chicken  first  begins  to  boil.  Keep  under 
the  water,  with  an  inverted  deep  plate.  Just  before  taking  off 
the  fire,  add  salt  to  the  taste.  Lay  on  a  hob  dish  near  the  fire. 
Skim  off  the  fat  from  the  top  of  the  liquor,  strain  it  and  add 
chopped  celery,  parsley  and  thyme,  draMii  butter,  a  little  pep- 
per and  salt,  or,  if  preferred,  six  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine. — 
Mrs.  S.   T. 

To  Steam  Chicken. 

Soak  two  hours,  in  salt  and  water,  a  fat  young  pullet.  Drain 
And  dry.  Rub  in  the  cavity  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  a  large 
lump  of  buttei*.  Fill  with  large,  plump  oysters,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  sew  up.  Lay  the  chicken  on  a  dish  or  pan, 
and  set  it  inside  a  steamer,  which  close  and  keep  over  boiling 
water  four  hours.     When  thoroughly  done,  lay  on  a  dish  and 


8M0THEKED    CHICKEN STEWED    CHICKEN.  185 

pour  over  it  drawn  butter  or  celery  sauce.     Garnish  with  curled 
parsley,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Smothered  Chicken. 

Kill  the  day  before  it  is  smothered.  Split  open  the  back,  as 
if  to  broil.  When  ready  to  cook,  wipe  dry  with  a  clean  towel, 
rub  well  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put 
in  a  pan  Avith  a  slice  of  bacon  or  pork  and  a  pint  of  water. 
Simmer  an  hour  or  more,  basting  frequently.  When  thoroughly 
done,  place  on  a  hot  dish. 

Stir  into  the  gravy  remaining  on  the  fire  a  beaten  egg,  mixing 
it  carefully.  Pour  this  into  the  dish,  but  not  on  the  chicken. 
Sift  over  it  cracker,  first  browned  and  then  pounded.  Garnish 
with  parsley,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Stewed  Chicken. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  as  if  to  fry,  adding  the  prepared  head 
and  feet.  Soak  in  weak  salt  and  water.  If  for  dinner,  do  this 
immediately  after  breakfast. 

An  hour  and  a  half  before  dinner,  put  in  a  saucepan,  cover- 
ing well  with  water.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  for  one  hour.  Take 
it  out  with  a  fork  and  lay  in  a  bowl.  Add  a  teacup  milk  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  black  pepper  to  the  liquor.  Let  it  boil  up 
and  strain  on  the  chicken.  Rinse  the  saucepan  and  return  all 
to  the  fire.  Beat  one  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one 
of  milk  until  quite  smooth.  Mince  some  parsley,  thyme,  and  a 
very  little  onion,  and  stir  all  into  the  saucepan.  Then  put  in 
a  tablespoonfur  of  butter.  Stir  around  and  pour  into  a  dish 
in  which  small  pieces  of  toast  have  been  neatly  arranged.  Gar- 
nish with  curled  parsley. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Stewed  Chicken, 
Cut  up   and   lay   in   salt   and   water.     Put  them  in  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  with  some  slices  of  middling.     Let  them 
boil  till  nearly  done.     Then  put  in  the  dumplings,  made  like 

10 


186    FRIED  CHICKEN TO  DRESS  CHICKENS  WITH  TOMATOES. 

biscuit  but  rolled  thin,  and  let  them  boil  till  done.  Roll  a 
piece  of  butter  in  flour,  with  pepper,  salt,  chopped  parsley  and 
celery,  or  a  little  celeiy-secd.  When  the  gravy  is  thick  enough, 
pour  in  a  teacup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  let  it  boil  up  once. 
Take  off  the  fire  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Col.   W. 

Fried  Chicken. 
This  dish  is  best  when  the  chicken  is  killed  the  same  day  it 
is  fried.  Cut  off  the  wings  and  legs,  cut  the  breast  in  two,  and 
also  the  back.  Wash  well  and  throw  in  weak  salt  and  water, 
to  extract  the  blood.  Let  it  remain  for  half  an  hour  or  more. 
Take  from  the  water,  drain  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel,  half  an 
hour  before  dinner.  Lay  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
it,  and  sift  flour  thickly  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other, 
letting  it  remain  long  enough  for  the  flour  to  stick  well.  Have 
ready  on  the  frying-pan  some  hot  lard,  in  which  lay  each  piece 
carefully,  not  forgetting  the  liver  and  gizzard.  Cover  closely 
and  fry  till  a  fine  amber  color.  Then  turn  over  each  piece  and 
cover  well  again,  taking  care  to  have  the  cliicken  well  done, 
yet  not  scorched.  Take  the  chicken  up  and  lay  in  a  hot  dish 
near  the  fire.  Pour  into  the  giavy  a  teacup  of  milk,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  one  of  pepper.  Let  it 
boil  \ip  and  pour  into  the  dish,  but  not  over  the  chicken.  Put 
curled  parsley  round  the  edge  of  the  dish  and  serve. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

Juried  Chicken. 

Kill  the  chicken  the  night  before,  if  you  can,  and  lay  on  ice, 
or  else  kill  early  in  the  morning.  When  ready,  wipe  dry,  floui 
it,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  a  little  lard.  When  nearly 
done,  pour  off  the  lard,  add  one-half  teacup  water,  large  spoon- 
ful butter,  and  some  chopped  parsley.  Brown  nicely  and 
serve.  Meal  mush  fried  is  nice  with  the  chicken. — Mrs. 
Col.  W. 

To  Dress  Chickens  with  Tomatoes, 

Fry  HA  a  light  brown.     Then   add  some    tomatces,  cut  in 


TO   FKICASSEE   CHICKEN — CHICKEN   PIE.  187 

small  pieces,  with  the  juice:  Strain  the  tomatoes  from  the  seed, 
season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  sugar,  and  let  them  stew, 
—Mrs.  J.  B.  B. 

To  Fricassee  Chicken. 
Wash  and  joint  the  chicken ;  place  the  pieces  in  a  stew-pau 
with  the  skin  side  down.  Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  each 
piece.  Add  three  or  four  slices  of  pork,  stew  till  tender,  take 
them  out  and  thicken  the  liquor  with  flour,  and  add  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg.  Replace  the  chicken  in  the  pan 
and  let  it  stew  five  minutes  longer.  When  it  is  taken  up,  soak 
in  the  gravy  some  pieces  of  toast,  put  them  on  plates  and  lay 
the  chicken  on  the  toast,  pouring  the  gravy  over  it.  To  brown 
the  chicken,  stew  till  tender,  without  the  pork ;  brown  the  pork, 
take  that  up,  then  put  in  the  chicken  and  fry  a  light  brown. — 
Mrs.  Col.  W. 

To  Broil  Chicken. 

Kill  the  chicken  the  day  before  using,  split  open  in  the  back, 
nicely  clean,  and,  if  the  weather  is  warm,  slightly  sprinkle 
with  salt.  If  for  breakfast,  half  an  hour  before  press  between 
the  folds  of  a  clean  towel  till  dry,  grease  well  with  fresh  butter, 
spi'inkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and  lay  on  a  gridiron,  over  hot 
coals,  with  the  inside  of  the  chicken  down.  Let  it  cook  prin- 
cipally from  this  side,  but  turn  often  till  the  outside  of  the 
chicken  is  of  a  bright,  yellow  brown.  When  thoroughly  done, 
pour  over  it  melted  butter,  sprinkle  pepper,  and  sift  pounded 
or  grated  cracker. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Chicken   Pie. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  place  in  a  deep  oven  with  one  large 
spoonful  of  lard.  Let  it  brown  a  little  and  add  one  onion,  pars- 
ley, thyme,  sage  and  black  pepper,  to  suit  the  taste.  Pour  on 
it  a  cupful  boiling  water,  stii*  well  and  let  it  simmer  till  wel) 
cooked.     Just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  rub  together  : 

1  cup  cream. 

1  spoonful  butter. 


188      CHICKEN   PIE — CHICKEN   PUDDING    WITH   POTATOES. 

Yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs. 
1  grated  nutmeg  and  other  spices  to  the  taste. 
Stir  well  and  pour  in  a  pan  lined  with  a  paste. — Mrs.  A.  G, 

Chicken  Pie. 
Make  into  a  paste  one  quart  of  flour  with  the  weight  of  four 
eggs  in  butter  and  a  large  spoonful  of  lard.  Put  the  paste  in  a 
deep  dish,  lining  the  bottom  and  side  with  chicken  interspersed 
with  layers  of  very  thin  bacon.  Add  some  large  crumbs, 
some  pepper,  and  a  quarter-pound  butter.  Fill  the  dish  \\dth 
cold  water,  and  yolks  of  four  or  six  hard-boiled  eggs,. then 
dredge  with  flour  and  put  on  the  top  crust.  Let  it  bake  gradu- 
ally.    It  will  take  two  hours  to  bake. — Mrs.  Col.  W. 

Chicken  Pudding. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  stew  it  a  little,  after  which  lay  the 
pieces  in  a  buttered  dish  with  a  few  bits  of  butter,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  of  the  water  in  which  the  chicken 
was  stewed. 

Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  milk,  five  eggs,  a  little  salt. 
Pour  this  batter  over  the  chicken,  and  bake  half  an  hour. — 

Mrs.  A.  B, 

Chicken  Pudding. 

10  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

1  quart  rich  milk. 

\  pound  melted  butter. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin,  good  batter.  Put  four 
young  chickens,  nicely  prepared  and  jointed,  in  a  saucepan,  with 
some  salt  and  water  and  a  bundle  of  thyme  or  parsley.  Boil 
till  nicely  done,  then  take  up  the  chickens  and  put  in  the 
batter.  Put  all  in  a  deep  dish  and  bake.  Serve  with  gravy  in 
a  boat. — Mrs.  Dr.  C. 

Chicken  Pudding   with   Potatoes. 
Cut  up  a  young  chicken  as  if  to  fry,  and  parboil  it.     Boil  and 


TO   ROAST   GOOSE DEVILLED    GOOSE.  189 

mash  Irish  potatoes.  Beat  up  three  or  four  eggs,  add  to  the 
potatoes,  and  thin  with  milk.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  stir  in  the  chicken,  and  bake  it. 

Boiled  rice  is  a  good  substitute  for  potatoes. — Mrs.  E.   W. 

N.  B. — Most  of  the  recipes  given  for  turkey  apply  to  pea- 
fowl, and  most  of  those  given  for  chicken  may  be  used  for 
guinea  fowl. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Roast  Goose. 

A  goose  must  never  be  eaten  the  same  day  it  is  killed.  If 
the  weather  is  cold,  it  should  be  kept  a  week  before  using. 
Before  cooking  let  it  lie  several  hours  iu  weak  salt  and  water, 
to  remove  the  strong  taste.  Then  plunge  it  in  boiling  water, 
for  five  minutes,  if  old.    Fill  the  goose  with  a  dressing  made  of: 

Mealy  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  fine. 

A  small  lump  of  butter. 

A  little  salt  or  fresh  pork  chopped  fine. 

A  little  minced  onion.    • 

Parsley,  thyme,  and  a  pinch  of  chopped  or  powdered  sage. 

Grease  with  sweet  lard  or  butter.  Lay  in  a  pan  with  the 
giblets,  neck,  etc.  Pour  in  two  teacups  of  boiling  water, 
set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  baste  frequently.  Turn  so  that  every 
part  may  be  equally  browned.  Serve  with  gravy  or  onion 
sauce. 

The  above  recipe  wiU  answer  equally  as  well  for  duck. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

Devilled   Goose. 

Plunge  the  goose  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  remain 
half  an  hour.     Fill  with  a  stuffing  made  of: 

Mashed  Irish  potatoes,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  butter,  minced 
onions,  sage,  parsley  and  thyme,  half  a  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

Place  it  in  a  pan  with  a  slice  of  fat  pork  and  a  pint  of  broth 
or  liquoi"  in  which  any  kind  of  meat  has  been  boiled. 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar,  celery  vinegar,  made 


190  TO   PBEPAEK   YOUNG   DUCKS — SALADS. 

mustard,  and  one  of  acid  fruit  jelly.  Butter  the  breast  of  the 
goose  and  pour  this  mixture  over  it,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to 
the  taste. 

Place  in  a  hot  oven,  dredge  with  flour  and  baste' frequently 
till  done ;  when  serve  with  its  own  gravy.  This  receipt  will 
answer  equally  as  well  for  wild  goose. — Mrs.  S.  T*. 

To    Prepare   Young   Ducks. 
EliU  and  hang  to  drain.     Plunge,  one  at  a  time,  in  boiling 
water,  then  immediately  in  cold  water,  which  makes  them  easier 
to  pick.     Kill  some  days  before  using,  or  if  obliged  to  use  them 
the  same  day  as  killed,  they  are  better  roasted. — Mrs.  R. 

To  Stew  Ducks. 
Truss  the  ducks  and  stufl'  them  with  bread,  butter,  and  onion. 
Flour  them  and  brown  them  in  lard.  Have  prepared  slips  of 
bacon,  giblets,  onion,  watei",  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  clove  or 
mace,  if  you  like.  Put  in  the  ducks  and  let  them  stew  gently 
but  constantly  for  two  hours.  Then  add  the  juice  of  green 
grapes  or  of  a  lemon,  or  else  a  little  lemon  pickle.  Flour  the 
ducks  each  time  you  turn  them,  and  thicken  with  butter  rolled 
in  flour. — Mrs.  Col.  W. 


SALADS. 

In  making  salads,  be  careful  to  add  the  vinegar  last.  Where 
oil  cannot  be  obtained,  fresh  butter,  drawn  or  melted,  is  an 
excellent  substitute  and  is  indeed  preferred  to  oil  by  some  per- 
sons, epicureans  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  Always 
use  good  cider  vinegar  in  making  salads,  as  chemical  vinegar  is 
sometimes  very  unwholesome.  Much  depends  on  the  rotation 
in  which  you  mix  the  ingredients  for  a  salad,  so  I  would  call 


OYSTIIE   SAIiAD — SALMON   AKD   LOBSTER   SALAD.         191 

particular  attention  to  the  directions  given  on  this  point  on  the 
subsequent  pages. 

Oystee  Salad, 

^  gallon  fresh  oysters. 

The  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs. 

1  raw  egg,  well  whipped. 

2  large  spoonfuls  salad  oil  or  melted  butter. 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper. 
2  teaspoonfuls  made  mustard. 

1  teacup  good  vinegar. 

2  good  sized  pickled  cucumbers,  cut  up  fine. 

Nearly  as  much  celery  as  oysters,  cut  up  into  small  dice. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  throw  them  into  some 
hot  vinegar  on  the  fire  ;  let  them  remain  until  they  are  plvmip, 
not  cooked.  Then  put  them  at  once  into  clear  cold  water ; 
this  gives  them  a  nice  plump  look  and  they  will  not  then  shrink 
and  look  small.  Drain  the  water  from  them  and  set  them  away 
in  a  cool  place,  and  prepare  your  dressing.  Mash  the  yolks  as 
fine  as  you  can  and  rub  into  it  the  salt,  pepper,  and  mustard, 
then  rub  the  oil  in,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  When  it  is  all 
smooth,  add  the  beaten  egg,  and  then  the  vinegar,  a  spoonful  at 
a  time.  Set  aside.  Mix  oysters,  celery,  and  pickle,  tossing  up 
well  with  a  silver  fork.  Sprinkle  in  salt  to  your  taste.  Then 
pour  dressing  over  all. — Mrs.  E.  P.  G. 

Salmon  and  Lobster  Salad. 

If  the  salmon  salad  is  made  of  the  fish  preserved  in  cans, 
di-aiu  it  from  the  oil  and  mince  the  meat  fine.  Cut  up  one 
third  as  much  lettuce  or  celery. 

For  one  box  of  salmon,  boil  four  eggs  hard  ;  lay  them  in  cold 
water  a  few  minutes,  shell  and  separate  the  whites  from  the 
yolks  ;  lay  the  whites  aside.  Mash  the  yolks  smooth  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  sweet  olive  oil  or  one  teacup  sweet  rich  milk  or 


192         LOBSTER  SALAD TERRAPIN  SALAD. 

cream.     The  oil  makes  the  smoothest  and  best  paste.     Dissolve 
in  one  teacup  vinegar, 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  or  more  teaspoonfuls  fine  mustard. 
Pepper  to  the  taste. 

Mix  this  with  the  paste  and  toss  lightly  over  the  meat  with 
a  silver  fork.  Ornament  the  dish  in  which  it  is  served  with 
the  green  leaves  of  the  celery,  or  with  curled  parsley  and  the 
whites  of  eggs  cut  in  rings. 

Lobster  salad  is  prepared  in  the  same  way.  Take  the  nicest 
parts  of  the  lobster. — Mrs.  G.  C. 

Lobster  Salad.  _ 
Chop  up  one  can  of  lobsters ;  cut  in  small  pieces  as  much 
celery.  Then  cream  with  one  teacup  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
mustard,  one  tablespooii'firl  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  smooth ;  stir  in  five 
tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar  (simply  pepper  steeped  in  vine- 
gar and  sweetened  with  a  little  sugar),  and  pour  the  mixture 
over  the  lobster  and  celery. — 3frs.  S.  T. 
• 

Fish  Salad. 

Boil  four  flounders,  or  any  medium  sized  fish ;  when  done, 
take  ofi"  the  skin  and  pick  out.  the  bones,  then  shred  very  fine. 
Add  pepper  and  salt,  one  tablespoonful  mixed  mustard,  a  half 
cup  vinegar,  and  half  a  pound  butter,  and  mix  all  well  with 
the  fish.  Put  into  shallow  pans,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  ten 
minutes.  When  cold  put  over  it  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce, 
Hnd  sherry  wine. — Miss  F.  N. 

Terrapin  Salad. 
BoQ  them  until  the  sheUs  will  come  oft'  easily  and  the  nails 
puU  out ;  then  cut  into  small  pieces  and   carefully  remove  the 
sand-bag  and  gall. 


TUltKKY   SALAD.  193 

To  three  good  sized  terrapins,  take  six  hard-boiled  eggs ;  re- 
move the  yolks  and  rvib  into  a  powder  with  half  a  pound  sweet 
butter.  When  creamy  and  light,  add  one  teaspoonful  flour. 
Put  this  with  the  meat  into  a  saiicepan ;  season  with  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  and  let  it  boil  for  one  or  two  minutes.  Just 
before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  wine  to  taste,  and  if  desired,  a 
little  mace. 

Be  careful  to  remove  the  skin  from  the  legs. — Mrs.  A, 
M.B. 

Turkey  Salad. 

TVIince  the  turkey  very  fine.  Have  ready  the  following  mixt- 
ure, for  a  large  company,        • 

Twelve  or  fourteen  eggs  boiled  hard ;  mash  the  yolks  smooth 
with  one  spoonful  water ;  add  to  it  pepper,  salt,  and  mustard  to 
the  taste.  Two  teaspoonfuls  celery-seed,  one  teacup  of  fresh 
melted  butter  or  fine  olive  oil,  and  pour  in  strong  vinegar  to  the 
taste. 

Mix  the  turkey  and  celery,  and  pour  over  the  mixture  just 
before  eating. — Mrs.  F.  C.  W. 

TurJcey  Salad.  ,,     .    ,,-f 

Remove  the  skin  and  fat  from  a  turkffi?;v7milS9S'*fhe'.  meat 
fine.  '^ 

Mince  2  or  3  slices  lean  ham.  ,i  ,  ^  ^ 

2  or  3  bunches  celery. 

3  or  4  apples. 

3  or  4  cucumber  pickles  ;  mix  well  together. 
Prepare  a  dressing  of  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  rubbed  in  a  little 
thick  cream.  v. 

4  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard. 

Vinegar  to  the  taste. 

—Mrs.  Dr.  8, 
17  <» 


194  TURKEY   SALA.D — CHTOKEN   SALAD, 

Turkey  Salad. 

Boil  two  turkeys  till  well  done,  pick  out  all  the  bones,  skia 
and  fat,  and  cut  up  the  balance  in  small  pieces. 

Boil  one  dozen  eggs  hard,  let  them  cool,  then  separate  the 
yolks  and  whites,  mash  the  yolks  fine,  chop  the  whites  very  finG 
and  set  them  to  one  side. 

Have  a  large  flat  dish,  in  which  put  four  large  spoonfuls 
mixed  mustard ;  pour  in  a  little  oil,  and  with  a  fork  rub  it 
in  till  smooth,  then  a  little  vinegar,  in  which  has  been  melted 
two  full  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  then  oil,  and  alternately  put  in 
oil  and  vinegar,  each"  time  rubbing  it  in  till  well  mixed.  When 
you  have  mixed  a  whole  bottle  of  oil  and  one  pint  vinegar  till 
it  is  as  smooth  as  butter,  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  cayenne 
pepper,  three  teaspoonfuls  celery-seed  rubbed  fine  in  a  mortar, 
and  one  large  mango  cut  fine,  put  in  stuffing  and  all. 

Have  ready  as  mucli  celery  as  you  have  fowl,  cut  fine,  mix 
meat  and  celery  carefully  together,  and  pour  the  dressing  over 
all.— Jfrs.  E.  I. 

Chicken  Salad. 

One  large  chicken  boiled ;  when  cold  remove  the  skin  and 
chop  into  a  dish,  over  which  throw  a  towel  slightly  dipped  in 
cold  water  to  keep  the  meat  moist.  When  the  celery  is  cut, 
put  between  clean  cloths  to  dry. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  best  mustard,  the  yolk  of  one  i-aw 
egg,  which  drop  into  a  dish  large  enough  to  hold  all  the  dress, 
ing ;  beat  well  for  ten  minutes  and  slowly  add  to  the  mustard 
one  tablespoonful  vinegar. 

When  well  mixed  add  three-eighths  bottle  of  oil,  a  drop  at  a 
time,  always  stirring  the  same  way. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs  very  smooth  and  stir  in 
half  a  teacup  of  vinegar.  Poiir  this  mixture  to  the  mustard, 
oil,  etc.,  stirring  together  as  lightly  as  jjossible. 

Add  to  the  chicken  one  pint  chopped  celery,  a  little  yellow 
pickle,  and  half  a  loaf  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  and  the  oil  taken 


CHTCKEN   SALAD.  195 

from  the  water  in  wliich  the  chicken  has  boiled.     Salt  and  pep 
per  to  taste. 

Pour  on  the  dressing  just  before  serving.     If  the  salad  is  kept 
too  cool  the  dressing  will  curdle. — Mrs.  E, 

Chicken  Salad. 
The  meat  of  2  boiled  fowls  chopped  very  fine. 
2  or  3  heads  of  cabbage  cut  fine. 
1  cup  olive  oil. 
^  pint  vinegar. 
Yolks  of  9  hard-boiled  eggs. 
1  gill  made  mustard. 
1  small  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 
1  small  teaspoonful  salt.  ■. 

Mix  smoothly  with   the    oil   and  then  add   the  vinegar. — 
Miss  N. 

Chicken  Salad  for   Thirty-five  People. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  lightly. 
\  box  of  mixed  mustard,  and  salt  to  the  taste. 
Add  slowly,  beating  all  the  time,  one  large  sized  bottle  of 
best  salad  oil.    Lastly,  add  two-thirds  teacup  of  vinegar. — Mrs. 
C.  C.  McP. 

Chicken   Salad. 

1  head  cabbage. 

2  heads  celery. 

2  chickens  finely  minced. 
10  eggs. 

3  small  cucumber  pickles. 
1  tablespoonful  mustard. 
A  little  cayenne  pepper. 

^  cup  butter;  ^  cup  cream. 

1  onion. 

1  teaspoonful  sugar. 


196  CHICKEN  SALAD — CELERY  SALAD. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  mash  the  yolks,  put  in  the  seasoning  with 
a  little  vinegar. 

Chop  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  the  pickle,  chicken,  cahbage 
and  celery — then  mix.  If  liked,  add  a  little  olive  oil. — Mrs. 
O.B. 

Chicken    Salad. 

Boil  a  chicken ;  while  warm,  mince  it,  taking  out  the  bones. 
Put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  boiling  water.  Then  stir  together 
until  smooth,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
flour  and  yolk  of  one  raw  egg  ;  all  of  which  add  to  the  chicken 
one  half  at  a  time,  stirring  all  well  together. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Let  it  simmer  ten  minutes  ;  then  add  half  a  gill  of  Madeira 
wine,  and  send  to  the  table  while  hot. — Mrs.  P. 

Celery  Salad. 
2  boiled  eggs. 

1  raw  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  or  1  of  oil. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard. 
■J  teaspoonful  salt. 
^  teaspoonful  pepper. 
■^  teacup  vinegar. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  eggs  smooth,  then  add  the  oil,  mustard,  etc., 
the  vinegar  last.     Cut  the  celery  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long. 
Set  all  in  a  cool  place. 

Just  before  serving  sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  black  pep- 
per, then  pour  over  the  dressing. 

If  you  have  any  cold  fowl,  chicken,  or  turkey  left  from 
dinner,  chop  it  up  and  mix  it  with  some  of  the  above — equal 
proportions  of  both — and  it  will  make  a  delicious  salad ;  or  a 
few  oysters  left  in  the  tureen  will  be  a  great  addition  to  the 
celery  salad. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


tomato  sajlad — veal  and  potato  8at.ad.         197 

Tomato  Salad. 
8  large  tomatoes. 
1  tablespoonful  made  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  salad  oil. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar. 
4  hard-boiled  eggs. 

1  raw  egg  beaten. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

1  saltspoon  nearly  full  cayenne  pepper, 
f  teacup  vinegar. 
First   rub   the  yolks  of  eggs    smooth,  adding  mustard,  oU, 
sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  beaten  raw  egg — then  the  vinegar.     The 
tomatoes  should  be  peeled  and  sliced  and  set  in  the  refrigerator 
— the  dressing  also. 

Just  before  serving,  cover  the  tomatoes  with  ice  broken  up  ; 
sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pour  over  the  dressing, — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

A  Salad  of  Turnips. 
Scrape  six  common  sized  turnips. 
Add  2  cups  of  sugar. 
1  or  more  cups  vinegar. 
Mustard,  celery-seed,  and  pepper  to  taste. 

—Mrs.   G.  A.  B. 
Potato  Salad. 
Boil  your  potatoes  very  carefully ;   or,  rather,  steam  them 
until  very  dry  and  mealy  ;  cut  in  slices  and  prepare  a  dress- 
Lag  of  egg,  onion,  mustard,  oil,  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  and 
pour  over  them. —  W.  S.  iS. 

Veal  and  Potato  Salad. 

Take  equal  proportions  of  cold  veal  and  boiled  Irish  pota- 
toes. 

Shred  the  veal  and  cut  up  the  potatoes.  Season  with  a  little 
butter  or  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  celery,  and  mustard. — Mrs.  M. 


198  leish  potato  salad — ^lettuce  salad. 

Ibish  Potato  Salad. 
Cut  ten  or  twelve  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  small  pieces. 
Put  into  a  salad  bowl  with — 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
4  tablespoonfuls  best  salad  oil. 
1  teaspoonful  minced  parsley. 
Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Stir  all  well  that  they  may  be  thoroughly  mixed ;  it  should 
be  made  several  hours  before  putting  on  the  table. 

Throw   in    bits    of  pickle,  cold  fowl,   a   garnish   of  grated 
cracker,  and  hard-boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  C.   V.  McG.,  Alabama. 

Potato  Salad. 
To  one   quart   potatoes   mashed   fine   and    rvibbed    through 
a  colander : 

1  tablespoonful  fresh  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teacupful  rich  milk. 
Cream  all  together  and  beat  until  light. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs  with — 

2  teaspoonfuls  mustard. 
2  teaspoonfuls  sugar. 

1  teaspoouful  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Enough  pepper  vinegar  to  moisten. 
Then  chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs  vei-y  fine  and  mix  in. 
Put  a  layer  of  the  potatoes   in   the    salad-bowl   ani  with 
a  spoon  put  the  dressing  over  in  spots.     Another  layer  of  pota- 
toes, tlien  the  dressing,  and  so  on,  putting  the  dressing  on  top. 
Garnish  with  curled  parsley,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.   T. 

Lettuce  Salad. 
Take  two  large  lettuces,  after  removing  the  outer  leaves  and 
rinsiug  the  rest  in  cold  water,  cut  lengthwise  in  four  or  six 
pieces,  rub  into  a  bowl  and  sprinkle  over  them — 


COLD   SLAW.  199 

1  teaspoouful  salt. 

^  teaspoonful  pepper. 
3  ounces  salad  oil. 

2  ounces  English,  or  1  ounce  French  vinegar. 

Stii-  the  salad  lightly  in  the  bowl  until  well  mixed.  Tarragon 
and  chevies,  or  a  little  water  or  mustard  cress. — Mrs.  R. 

Slaw. 
Chop  fine  one  head  of  cabbage  put  in  a  pan. 
1  cup  cream. 
1^  teaspoonful  mustard. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
And  yolk  of  one  egg,  beaten  light. 
When  boiled  add  one-half  cup  of  strong  vinegar ;  stir  well 
and  pour  over  the  cabbage. — Mrs.  E.  T. 

Cold  Slaw. 

Wash  well  and  shred  fine,  a  firm  white  cabbage. 

Boil  one  teacup  vinegar. 

One  tablespoonful  butter  iu  a  little  flour,  stii"  this  in  the  vin- 
egar. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  till  light  and  stir  also  in  the  mixt- 
ure, just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 

Add  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt,  to  the  butter  and  flour,  before 
putting  in  the  vinegar. 

Pour  all,  when  hot,  over  the  cabbage  and  set  away  to  cool. — 
Mrs.  M.  C. 

Cold  Slaw. 
Wash  your  cabbage  and  lay  in  cold  water  some  hours.     Have 
a  seasoning  of  egg,  mustard,  oil,  pepper,   salt,  celery-seed,  and 
vinegar,  and  pour  over  it.     In  winter  the  slaw  will  keep  a  day 
or  two. — Mrs.  W. 


200  lettuce  dressed fish  sauce. 

Lettuce  Dressed. 

Take  well  headed  lettuce,  chop  it  fine  and  pour  over  a  dressing 
made  of  salt  and  pepper,  mustard,  hard-boiled  egg,  and  olive 
oU. 

Cream  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  mustard  together  with  a  little 
oil,  until  quite  smooth.     Add  vinegar  if  desired, — JKq's.  H. 

Lettuce   Dressed. 
Lettuce  chopped  fine. 
^  cup  vinegar. 
^  cup  ice-water. 
1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  cayenne. 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped. 
1  onion  chopped. 

1  tablespoonful  made  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil. — Mrs,  S.  T. 


SAUCES. 


Sauce   for  Salad  or  Fish. 
Yolks  of   two  hard-boiled    eggs,   mashed   well  with  mixed 
mustard,  pepper,  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  three  of 
vinegar  and  one  of  tomato  cajjsup. — Mrs.  tT.  H.  F. 

Fish  Sauce. 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  and  stirred  into  two  cups  of 
drawn  butter. 

Let  it  simmer,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  pepper-sauce, 
two  tablespoonfuls  minced  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  and  salt  tc 
the  taste. 

Pour  over  the  fish  and  slice  a  lemon  overall. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


sauoe  fob  fish — dutch  badge  fok  fish.         201 

Sauce  for   Fish. 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar,  half  a  table- 
spoonful  fresh  butter,  a  little  salt. 

To  be  stii-red  over  a  slow  fire  till  it  thickens,  it  must  only 
be  warm  or  it  will  curdle  and  spoil.— il/rs.  S. 

Sauce  for  Cod's  Head. 
Take  a  lobster,  stick  a  skewer  through  the  tail,  to  keep  the 
water  out;  throw  a  handful  of  salt  in  the  water.  When  it 
boils  put  in  the  lobster  and  boil  half  an  hour ;  pick  off  the 
spawns,  if  any,  and  pound  them  very  fine  in  a  marble  mortar 
and  put  them  in  one-half  pound  drawn  butter.  Take  the  meat 
out  of  the  lobster,  pull  it  in  bits  and  put  it  in  your  butter ;  add  : 

1  spoonful  walnut  catsup. 

1  slice  of  lemon. 

1  or  2  slices  horseradish. 
A  little  pounded  mace. 
Salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 

Boil  them  one  minute ;  then  take  out  the  lemou  and  horse- 
radish, and  serve  it  up  in  the  sauce-boat. — Jtfrs.  JR. 

Dutch   Sauce   for   Fish. 
J  teaspoonful  flour. 

2  ounces  butter. 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs. 

Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Salt  to  the  taste. 
Put  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  lemon  juice,  into  a  stew- 
pan  ;  set  it  over  the  fire  and  keep  constantly  stirring.  When  it 
is  sufiiciently  thick,  take  it  off,  as  it .  should  not  boil.  Ifj  how- 
ever, it  happens  to  curdle,  strain  the  sauce  through  a  taminy, 
add  the  lemon  juice,  and  serve.  Tarragon  vinegar  may  be  used 
instead  of  plain,  and  by  many  is  considered  far  preferable.  — 
Mrs.   0. 


202        MAiTRK  d'hote  sattce — horseradish  sauce. 

MaItke   d'Hote   Sauce. 
It  is  nothing  more  than  butter-sauce  made  thus  : 
Add  to  one  teacup  drawn  butter,  the  juice  of  one-half  l&mon. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cliopped  parsley. 
A  little  minced  onion  and  thyme. 
Cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Beat  with  an  egg-whip  while  simmering.  Good  for  almost 
any  dish  of  fish  or  meat.— J/rs.  /S.  T. 

Fish  Sauce. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  wineglassful  vinegar. 

2  wineglassfuls  tomato  or  mushroom  catsup. 

Pepper,  salt,  and  mustard  to  the  taste.  Stew  till  well  mixed. 
—Mrs.  J,  D. 

Anchovy  Sauce. 

Soak  eight  anchovies  in  cold  water,  for  several  hours;  cut 
up  and  stew  in  a  veiy  little  water  for  twenty  minutes ;  strain 
into  one  teacup  drawn  butter.     , 

Pour  all  in  a  saucepan  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  Beat  it  up 
until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  pour  into  a  sauce  tureen.  Add  a  little 
cayenne  pepper ;  one  squeeze  of  lemon. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

HORSEKADISH    SaUCE. 

Grate  one  teacupful  horseradish. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  or  olive  oil  if  preferred. 

Pepper  and  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  turmeric. — Mrs.  J.  U.  T. 

Celery  sauce  is  good  made  in  the  same  way,  by  adding  butter 
instead  of  oil,  and  celery  instead  of  hoi'seradish. — Mrs.  1\  W. 


peppiik  vinegab — ^musheoom  sauoe,  203 

Mushroom  Sauce,  fob  Fbied  or  Broiled  Fish. 

Get  fine-grown  fresh  gathered  mushrooms ;  break  them  up 
and  sprinkle  salt  over  them.  Let  them  lie  for  the  juice  to  run 
out,  stirring  them  often.  When  the  juice  has  been  extracted, 
strain  it,  boil  well  with  a  little  ginger  and  pepper. 

Do  not  season  much,  as  it  is  the  mushroom  flavor  to  be 
desired.  You  can  add  seasoning  as  required ;  all  necessary  to 
keep  it  is  enough  salt  and  pepper. 

This  makes  a  nice  flavoring  for  any  sauce  or  gravy  mixed 
with  soy  or  lemon  pickle. — Mrs.  G.  G. 

Pepper  Vinegar. 

Fill  a  quart  bottle  with  small  peppers,  either  green  or  ripe ; 
put  in  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  fill  with  good  cider  vine- 
gar. 

Invaluable  in  seasoning  sauces,  and  good  to  eat  with  fish  or 
meat.  If  small  peppers  cannot  be  obtained,  cut  up  large  pods 
instead.— Jfrs.  S.  T. 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Scald  and  peel  six  large  ripe  tomatoes  ;  chop  them  up  and  stew 
slowly.  Creaiu  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  together. 

When  the  tomatoes  are  thoroughly  done,  and  reduced  to  a 
flue  pulp,  add  pepper  and  salt. 

Stir  the  butter,  sugar,  and  flour  in.  Let  boil  up  and  serve. 
-Mrs.  S.  T. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Roll  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg  into  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  sifted  flour  ;  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  warm  water  ; 
let  it  simmer.  Pour  in  one  teacup  cream,  and  stir  ;  throw  in 
one  pint  young  mushrooms,  washed,  picked,  and  skinned  ;  add 
pepper,  salt,  another  small  piece  of  butter. 

Let  it  boil  up  once,  shaking  the  pan  well,  and  serve. — Mru. 
S.  T. 


204  onion  sauce white  sauce  fok  f0wx8. 

Onion  Sauce. 

Boil  fa  ur  or  five  large  white  onions  in  salt  and  water ;  change 
the  water,  then  drain  them.  Chop  fine  and  boil  with  one  tea- 
cup new  milk,  salt,  pepper,  and  one  tablespoonful  peppe*"  sauce. 

Add  drawn  butter  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Nasturtium  Sauce. 
This  is  made  by  stirring  into  one  teacup  drawn  butter,  three 
tablespoonfuls  pickled  nasturtiums,  adding  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per.    Simmer  gently  and  serve. — 3£rs.  S.  T. 

Apple  Sauce. 
Pare  and  slice  some  tart  apples ;  stew  until  tender  in  a  very 
little  water,  then  reduce  to  a  smooth  pulp.     Stir  in  sugar  and 
butter  to  the  taste,  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  little  nut- 
meg.—Jfrs.  S.  T. 

Mint  Sauce. 
3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
2  tablespoonfuls  mint. 
1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar. 
1  saltspoouful  salt. 
Mix  ten  minutes  before  using. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Sauces   especially   suitable   for  Fowls,   though  they    may    be 
used  for   any   kind    of  Meats. 

White  Sauce  for  Fowls. 

Take  the  neck,  gizzard,  liver,  and  feet  of  fowls,  with  a  piece 
of  mutton  or  veal,  if  you  have  any,  and  boil  in  one  quart  water 
with  a  few  whole  peppers,  and  salt,  till  reduced  to  one  pint ; 
then  thicken  with  a  quarter  pound  butter  mixed  with  flour  and 
boil  it  five  or  six  minutes. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  one  teacup  good  cream ;  put 
it  in  the  saucepan,  shaking  over  the  fire  till  done. — 3Iie.  Dr.  S 


sauce  for  boiled  pc ultrt— drawn  butter.      205 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Poultry. 
One  stick  of  white,  blanched  celery,  chopped  very  small ;  put 
it  in  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  milk  and  a  few  black  pepper- 
corns ;  let  it  boil  gently,  till  reduced  to  one  pint.  Keep  stir- 
ring the  celery  up  with  the  milk  until  it  is  in  a  pulp.  Thicken 
the  whole  with  the  yolk  of  one  fresh  egg  well  beaten,  and  half 
a  teacup  of  fresh  cream. — Mrs.  S. 

Celery  Sauce. 
Chop  celery  into  pieces  half  an  inch  long,  enough  to  fill  one 
pint  measure,  and  stew  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  till  tender. 
Add  one  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar,  a  little  salt  and  pepper ; 
pour  in  one  teacup  cream  or  milk,  then  add  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  drawn  butter. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Egg  Sauce. 
Cut  up  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Stir  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  drawn  butter,   adding,  just 
as  you  serve,  minced  onion,  parsley,  and  thyme. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Asparagus  Sauce. 
Parboil  one  bunch  of  asparagus,  first  scraping.     When  nearly 
done,  drain  and  cut  in  small  pieces.     Stew  in  a  teacup  of  milk, 
with  pepper  and  salt.     When  done  pour  into  drawn  butter,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Oyster  Sauce. 

Scald  one  pint  large  fresh  oysters,  just  enough  to  plump 
them ;  adding  one  tablespoonful  pepper  vinegar,  a  little  black 
pepper  and  salt. 

Pour  into  a  sufficient  quantity  of  drawn  butter  and  serve. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

Drawn  Butter. 

Take  one-quarter  pound  of  best  fresh  butter,  cut  it  up  and  mix 
with  it  two  teaspoonfuls  flour;  when  thoroughly  mixed,  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  and  add  to  it  four  tablespoonfuls  cold  water. 


206  DRAWN   BUTTEK — MTJBHBOOM    SAUCE. 

Cover  the  paxi  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  shake  V 
round  continually,  always  moving  it  the  same  way.  When  tht 
butter  is  entirely  melted  and  begins  to  simmer,  then  let  it  rest 
until  it  boils  up.  In  melting  butter  for  pudding,  some  substi- 
tute milk  for  water. — Jifrs.  Dr.  S. 

Draion  Hutter. 

Cream  together  one-quarter  pound  fresh  butter,  with  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  sifted  flour ;  add  to  this  six  teaspoonfuls 
water. 

Put  it  in  a  small  tin  saucepan  and  set  it  in  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water,  until  it  begins  to  siimner,  shaking  it  often. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Drawn  Butter. 

Rub  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  little  flour,  add  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  boiling  water. 

Shake  continually  over  the  fire  without  letting  it  boil,  till  it 
thickens.— Jf7-s.  P.  W. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 
Stew  two  quarts  cranberries ;  putting  only  water  enough  to 
keep  from  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  kettle.  Keep  covered 
until  nearly  done,  then  stir  in  one  quart  white  sugar,  and  boU 
until  thick.  The  color  is  finer  when  the  sugar  is  added  just 
before  the  sauce  is  done. — 3frs.  S.   T. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Wash  and  pick  one  pint  young  mushrooms,  rub  them  with 
salt  to  take  off  the  tender  skin.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  one  blade  of  mace,  one  pint  cream,  lump  A 
butter  rubbed  in  flour. 

Boil  them  up  and  stir  till  done,  then  pour  it  round  the 
chickens.     Garnish  with  lemon. — Mrs.  G.  C 


SALAD  DEESSINO — DRESSING    FOR   SALAD.  207 

SALAD  DRESSINGS. 

Take  the  yolk  of  one  raw  egg ;  add  to  that  one-half  table- 
spoonful  of  either  dry  or  thickly  mixed  mustard,  salt  and  pep 
per  to  your  taste. 

Wlien  well  mixed  together,  add  sweet  oil  in  very  small 
quantities,  at  a  time,  stii-iing  briskly  until  it  is  very  thick. 
Then  add  a  little  vinegar,  but  not  sufficient  to  make  the  dress- 
ing thin.  Tliese  are  the  proportions  for  the  yolk  of  one  rav 
egg,  sufficient  for  four  people.  The  quantity  of  eggs,  mustard, 
etc. ,  must  be  increased  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  dressing 
needed. — Mrs.  McK. 

Salad  Dressing. 
Beat  two  eggs.     Add  butter  size  of  half  an  egg. 
\  teaspoonful  mustard  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  water, 
4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
|-  teacupful  boiling  water. 

Set  it  in  a  bowl  on  top  of  the  tea-kettle  and  stir  until  as 
thick  as  cream. — Mrs.  W.  H.  M. 

Dressing. 
To  one  tumblerful  vinegar,  warmed  in  a  stewpan,  add  four 
beaten  eggs ;  stir  for  a  few  minutes  till  cooked  like  boiled  cus- 
tard.    Then  throw  in  : 

A  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
1  tea.spoonful  of  mustard. 
1  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

A  lump  of  butter  size  of  half  an  egg,  instead  of  oil. 
Stir  well  and  pour  out.     Will  keep  for  weeks.     Good  for 
chicken  salad. — Mrs.  W. 

Dressing  for  Salad. 
Turkey  is  more  economical  and  better  for  salad  than  chicken 
To  one  turkey,  weighing  about  nine  pounds,  allow  nine  eggs  : 


208  DRESSING   FOR  OHIOKEN   SALAD. 

7  hard-boiled  eggs. 

2  raw  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 

To  each  egg  allow  2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  perfectly  pure 

and  sweet. 
1  saltspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  made  mustard. 

2  saltspoonfuls  cayenne  pepper  to  the  whole  amount. 
Celery  to  the  taste. 

Lettuce  leaves,  if  in  season,  using  only  the  heart. 

The  juice  of  2  lemons. 

This  will  last  a  week. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

Dressing  for  Chicken  Salad. 
To   four  chickens,  the   yolks   of  twelve  eggs  mashed  very 
smooth  with : 

1  raw  egg  beaten  Ught. 

■^  teacup  of  mustard. 

4"  teaspoonful  red  pepper. 

1  teacup  salad  oil. 

1  cup  of  vinegar. 

1  quart  of  cut  celery. 

Salt  to  the  taste. 


-Mrs.  J.  W. 


Lettuce  Dressing. 


1  raw  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

^  teaspoonful  mustard. 

A  little  cayeime  pepper  (never  use  black  pepper  on  lettuce). 

2  tablespoonfuls  best  olive  oil. 

1  tablespoonful  vinegar.  —Miss  R.  S. 

Dressing  for  Cabbaok. 
The  yolk  of  an  egg. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 


8ANA    MAYONMAISK  —  SALAD   FOK   SLAW.  209 

1  teaspoouful  mustard. 

2  teaspooufuls  sugar,  mashed  smooth. 
1  cup  of  cream. 

Vinegar  to  your  taste. 

—Mrs.  E.  a  G. 

Sana  Mayonnaise. 

The  yolks  (raw)  of  two  eggs. 

Stir  in  oil,  a  drop  at  a  time,  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  and 
then  pour  it  in  slowly  still,  but  in  greater  quantities,  stirring 
continually.  Add  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar  to  the 
taste. 

If  mustard  is  liked  in  the  sauce,  it  must  be  mixed  with  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  before  dropping  the  oil. 

This  sauce  should  be  nearly  as  thick  as  soft  butter.  It  makes 
a  delicious  dressing  for  lettuce,  celery,  cold  poultry  or  game ; 
and  also  for  cold  boiled  fish  or  pickled  salmon.  If  used  with 
the  latter,  the  salmon  should  be  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  dish 
and  covered  thickly  with  sauce. 

Boiled  chestnuts,  peeled,  small  pickled  onions,  sliced  cucum- 
bers, lettuce,  etc.,  are  a  great  addition,  and  should  be  used  to 
dress  or  garnish  the  dish,  but  not  be  mixed  with  tie  salmon. — 
Mrs.  E.  P.,  Cin. 

Salad  for  Slaw. 

3  eggs  well  beaten. 
Nearly  a  cup  of  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter, 
1  tablespoonful  mustard. 
Pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 
Tumbler  of  milk. 
Tumbler  of  vinegar. 
Stir  well  over  the  fire  until  as  thick  as  custard.     Let  it  cooJ 
and  pour  over  cabbage. — J/"rs.  R.  A. 

18 


210  DBESSING   FOB  COLD   SLAW — SALAD   DKES8ING. 

Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw. 

1  cup  of  vinegar. 

2  eggs  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
A  little  black  pepper. 
Mix  together  the  butter,  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard ;  add 
the  eggs  last. 

Have  the  vinegar  boiling  and  pour  it  on,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Then  pour  it  back  in  the  saucepan  and  boil  a  few 
minutes.     Pour  on  the  slaw  when  cold. — Miss  iV. 

Lettuce  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs. 

1  teacvip  milk. 

1  teacup  vinegar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  oil  or  melted  butter. 
After  mixing  all  well  together,   except  the  vinegar,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil.     When  cold,  beat  well,  add  the  vinegar,  salt, 
pepper,  and  made  mustard  to  suit  the  taste.     Keep  corked  in 
a  bottle.— J/rs.  A.  M.  D. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Put  one  tumbler  vinegar,  and  one  lump  biitter,  size  of  an 
egg,  on  to  boil. 

Beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  and  pour  the  boiling 
vinegar  over  them,  stirring  all  the  time ;  return  it  to  the  fiie 
and  continue  to  stir,  until  it  thickens  like  custard.  When  it  is 
perfectly  cold  add  one  tumblerful  ci-eam,  into  which  has  been 
mixed  one  tablespoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  mustard,  twc 
spoonfuls  sugar,  and  one  spoonful  bruised  celery-seed. 

Bottle  the  dressing  and  it  will  keep  for  a  month. — Mrs.  P. 


OKLEKY   DRESSING — BRUNSWICK    STEW.  211 


Celery  Dressing. 


2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  beaten  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  mixed  mustard. 

1  cup  vinegar. 

1  cup  fresh  milk  or  cream. 
Boil  and  use  cold. — Mrs.  I.  D. 

To  Dress  Celery. 
Beat  light  the  yolk  of  one  egg ;  add : 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream. 

1  tablespoonful  white  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar. 
1  teaspoonful  olive  oil. 

1  teaspoonful  mustard. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 


—Mrs.  Dr.  S. 


BRUNSWICK   STEWS,   GUMBO,  AND  SIDE   DISHES. 

Brunswick  Stew. 

A  twenty-five  cent  shank  of  beef. 

A  five-cent  loaf  of  bread — square  loaf,  as  it  has  more  crumb, 
and  the  crust  is  not  used. 

1  quart  potatoes  cooked  and  mashed. 

1  quart  cooked  butter-beans. 

1  quart  raw  corn. 

\h  quart  raw  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped. 

If  served  at  two  o'clock,  put  on  the  shank  as  for  soup,  at  the 
earliest  possible  hour;, then  about  twelve  o'clock  take  the 
shank  out  of  tlie  soup  and  shred  and  cut  all  of  the  meat  as  fine 


212  BKUNSWICK   STEW. 

as  you  can,  carefully  taking  out  bone  ana  gristle,  and  then 
return  it  to  tlie  soup-pot  and  add  all  of  the  vegetables ;  the 
bread  and  two  slices  of  middling  are  an  improvement  to  it. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste ;  and  when  ready  to 
serve,  drop  into  the  tureen  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

This  makes  a  tureen  and  about  a  vegetable-dish  full. — Mrs. 
E.  P. 

JBnmswick  Stew. 

About  four  hours  before  dinner,  put  on  two  or  three  slices  of 
bacon,  two  squirrels  or  chickens,  one  onion  sliced,  in  one  gallon 
water.  Stew  some  time,  then  add  one  quart  peeled  tomatoes, 
two  ears  of  grated  corn,  three  Irish  potatoes  sliced,  and  one 
handful  butter-beans,  and  part  pod  of  red  pepper. 

Stew  altogether  about  one  hour,  till  you  can  take  out  the 
bones.  When  done,  put  in  one  spoonful  bread  crumbs  and  one 
large  spoonful  butter. — 3frs.  M.  M.  D. 

JSrwnswick  Stew. 
Take  one  chicken  or  tvo  squirrels,  cut  them  up  and  put  one- 
half  gallon  water  to  them.  Let  it  stew  until  the  bones  can  be 
removed.  Add  one-half  dozen  large  tomatoes,  one-half  pint 
butter-beans,  and  corn  cut  from  half  a  dozen  ears,  salt,  pepper, 
and  butter  as  seasoning. — Mrs.  I.  JET. 

JBm/nswick    Stew. 

Take  two  chickens  or  three  or  four  squirrels,  let  them  boil  in 
water.  Cook  one  pint  butter-beans,  and  one  quart  tomatoes ; 
cook  with  the  meat.  When  done,  add  one  dozen  ears  corn, 
one  dozen  lai'ge  tomatoes,  and  one  pound  butter. 

Take  out  the  chicken,  cut  it  into  small  pieces  and  put  back ; 
-cook  until  it  is  well  done  and  thick  enough  to  be  eaten  with  a 
fork. 

Season  with  pepper  and  salt. — Mrs.  Ji. 


OUMBO.  213 


Gumbo. 


Put  one  tablespoonful  lard  into  a  pan.  Slice  two  onions  and 
fry  them  in  it  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  a  chicken  cut  up, 
and  fry  it  in  the  lard  till  it  slightly  browns,  also  one  or  two  slices 
of  bacon  or  pork,  and  three  or  four  bunches  parsley  cut  up. 

Have  a  heaping  plateful  of  ochra  cut  up ;  jjut  that  in  the  pan 
and  let  it  wilt  a  few  minutes  (you  must  stir  it),  then  add  three 
or  four  tomatoes  cut  up.  Then  put  the  whole  into  a  stewpan, 
pour  hot  water  to  it,  not  quite  as  much  as  for  soup.  Let  it  boil 
until  quite  thick.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  also  red  or  green 
pod  pepper. 

It  must  be  dished  like  soup  and  eaten  with  rice ;  the  rice  to 
be  boiled  dry  and  served  in  a  vegetable  dish ;  put  one  or  two 
spoonfuls  in  a  plate  and  pour  the  gumbo  over  it, — Mrs.  G. 

Gumbo. 

Cut  up  two  chickens,  fry  slightly  with  a  little  onion,  and  a 
few  slices  pickled  pork. 

Put  ill  three  or  four  quarts  boiling  water,  together  with 
pepper  and  salt,  eighteen  okras,  one-half  peck  cut  up  tomatoes. 

Stew  one  hour  and  a  half. — Mrs.  D.  K. 

Gumbo. 

Take  one  chicken,  frying  size,  cut  up  in  hot  lard  ;  add  one 
quart  ochi-a  chopped  fine,  and  one  good  sized  onion  chopped  fine, 
when  the  chicken  begins  to  brown,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it 
ceases  to  rope  and  is  a  nice  brown. 

Then  put  it  into  a  deep  vessel  and  pour  on  enough  boiling 
water  to  make  soup  for  ten  or  twelve  persons,  adding  two  or 
three  tomatoes,  skinned  and  sliced,  two  ears  of  tender  corn, 
salt,  and  black  and  red  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Let  the  whole  boil  one  hour. 

Boil  rice  very  dry  and  serve  with  it, — Mrs.  F  McG. 


214  GUMBC   FELIT    A   LA    CREOLE VEAL   PATES. 

Gumbo  Filit  A  la  Creole. 
Put  into  a  deep  pot  one  tablespoonful  lard,  when  hot  put  ir 
one  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  in  until    brown,  then   slice  one 
large  onion  and  fry  it  till  brown ;  skim  out  the  onion  and  do 
not  put  it  back  until  a  chicken  cut  up  in  small  pieces  has  been 
fried.     Stir  it  all  the  time.     Have  a  kettle  of  boiling  water 
near  by ;  pour  one  or  two  cups  of  water  on  the  chicken,  stir 
well  and  let  it  simmer  slowly.     Add :  ^ 
10  allspice. 
8  cloves. 

Red  and  black  pepper. 
Parsley  and  thyme  if  you  like  it. 
Put  in  two  quarts  of  water,  boiling,  and  let  it  boil  gently  two 
hours.  Have  ready  the  liquor  from  one  quart  oysters,  put  that 
in  with  the  water  ;  put  the  oysters  in  later,  allowing  them  time 
to  cook.  When  ready  to  serve  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  filit, 
boil  up  once.     To  be  eaten  with  rice  cooked  dry. 

N.  B.  J<tlit  is  only  pulverized  sassafras  leaves,  di'ied  and 
sifted;  you  can  make  it  yourself. — Jfrs.  S.,  La. 

Yeal  Pat:6s. 

3^  pounds  leg  of  veal. 
\  pound  salt  pork. 
6  soda  crackers  rolled  and  sifted. 
-      1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

1  nutmeg. 

2  egfjs  well  beaten. 
Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Hash  veal  and  pork  together,  cutting  very  fine.  Then  mix 
seasoning  very  thoroughly  and  form  into  oval  shapes.  Put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  and  bread  crumbs  over  the  top,  while  in 
the  baking  dish ;  half  a  teacup  water,  aad  baste  frequently 
while  baking.    In  moulding  it  and  when  mixing  it  keep  wetting 


HASHED  MUTTON — MUTTON  HASH.  215 

the  liauids  in  cold  water,  also  wet   the  dish  when  ycu  begin 
moulding  it  in  shape. — Mrs.  J.  P.  II. 

Hashed  Mutton. 

Cut  cold  mutton  into  very  thin  slices,  and  make  a  gravy  by 
boiling  the  bones  for  two  hours  with  a  little  onion,  pepper  and 
salt. 

Strain  this  gravy  and  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  adding  a 
small  amount  of  tomato  or  mushroom  gravy  to  flavor  it,  and 
a  small  piece  of  butter.  Wlien  the  gravy  is  of  a  proper  con- 
sistency, put  in  the  slices  of  mutton,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly 
for  ten  minutes.  Serve  on  a  platter  with  parsley  and  sippets 
of  bread. 

Mashed  Mutton. 

Fry  in  a  saucepan  three  small  onions,  and  three  small  slices 
of  bacon  or  ham,  until  they  are  brown  ;  then  add  a  little  more 
than  half  a  pint  water,  and  thicken  it  with  flour.  Next  strain 
it  and  add  it  to  the  meat  with  a  little  sauce ;  pepper  and  salt 
to  the  taste. 

It  will  take  about  an  hour  to  hash. 

Mutton  Hash. 
Cut  the  meat  up  fine,  putting  the  bones  on  to  stew  in  water ; 
then  take  out  the  bones  and  put  in  the  hash,  with  pepper,  salt 
and  gravy  left  from  the  day  before. 

Let  these  stew   at  least  half  an  hour.     Put   in  one  large 
fcablespoonful  browned  flour.     Add — 
6  tablespoonfuls  red  wine. 
1  tablespoonfvil  walnut  catsup. 
1  tablespoonful  tomato  catsup. 
A  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  a  little  flour. 
If  a  small  dish,  proportion  the  seasoning. 
Beef,  goose,  and  duck  hash  can  be  made  the  same  way, — ■ 
Mm.  R. 


216  liOTCH    POTCH A   NICE   SIDE    DISH. 

HOTCH   POTCH. 

During  tlie  summer  season  get  lamb  chops,  which  half  fry. 
Cut  up  cabbage,  lettuce,  turnips,  onions  and  any  other  vege- 
tables, which  boil,  with  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  etc. ;  one 
hour  before  dinner,  put  in  the  lamb  chops,  with  some  green 
peas  ;  boil  the  potatoes  separately. 

Scotch  Bkoth. 
3  pounds  of  the  scrag  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton. 
1  onion. 
1  small  turnip. 
A  little  parsley. 
A  little  thyme. 
Put  the  mutton  in   the  pan  and  cover  with  two  quarts  cold 
water,  add  the  vegetables  and  not  quite  one  teacup  rice  ;  one 
small  carrot  and  a  little  celery  added  will  give  a  nice  flavor. 

When  it  boils,  skim  carefully,  cover  the  i>an,  and  let  it 
simmer  for  two  hours.     Of  course,  the  vegetables  must  be  cut 

small. 

Meat   Loaf. 

Chop  fine  whatever  cold  meat  you  may  have,  fat  and  lean  to- 
gether ;  add  pej^per  and  salt,  one  finely  chopped  onion,  two 
slices  of  bread  which  have  been  soaked  in  milk,  and  one  egg. 

Mix  well  together  and  bake  in  a  form.  This  makes  an 
admirable  tea  or  breakfast  dish. — Mrs.  JT. 

Black   Stew. 

Take  any  kind  of  fresh  meat  that  has  been  boiled  or  roasted, 
cut  up  enough  to  make  a  dish  ;  put  one  tablespoonful  currant 
jelly,  one  tablespoonful  of  wine,  one  large  spoonful  butter,  one- 
half  onion  chopped,  pepper  and  salt. 

Stir  all  together  fifteen  minutes.  Pickle  cut  uj)  is  an  improve- 
ment, and  brown  sugar  can  be  used  instead  of  currant  jelly. — 

Mrs  J.  T. 

A   NICE  Side-dish. 

Make  a  mince  meat  of  turkey  ;  after  it  is  stewed  put  boiled 


MEAT  CROQUETTES— CHICKEN  CROQUETTES.      217 

rice  around  the  dish  and  set  it  in  an  oven  to  brown.     Then  gar- 
nish with  hard  boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  E.  I. 

Meat   Croquettes. 

Any  nice  cold  meat  when  nicely  minced  will  make  good 
croquettes,  especially  veal.  Take  about  one-quarter  loaf  bread, 
well  soaked  in  water  and  squeezed  dry  ;  mix  with  the  minced 
meat  about  one  dessertspoonful  chopped  parsley,  one  dessert- 
spoonful ground  ginger,  three  eggs,  a  pinch  of  ground  mace, 
pepper  and  salt,  roll  them  into  egg-shaped  balls ;  have  ready 
two  or  three  eggs  well  beaten,  in  one  plate,  and  flour  in  another ; 
first  roll  in  the  flour,  then  in  the  egg,  fry  in  boiling  drippings  ; 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  T- 

Croquettes. 

Take  cold  fowl  or  fresh  meat  of  any  kind,  with  slices  of  fat 
ham  ;  chop  together  very  fine,  add  one-half  as  much  stale  bread 
grated,  salt  and  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  cat- 
sup, one  teaspoonful  made  mustard,  and  lump  of  butter  size  of 
an  egg.  Mix  well  together  till  it  resembles  sausage  meat ; 
mould  them  into  cakes,  dip  into  well  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg, 
cover  thickly  with  grated  bread.  Fry  a  light  brown. — Mra. 
F.D. 

Croquettes. 

Boil  or  roast  a  turkey,  chop  the  meat  as  fine  as  possible. 
Mix  eight  beaten  eggs  with  the  meat,  add  one  quart  of  milk, 
one-quarter  pound  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  mace. 

Stew  all  together  for  a  few  minutes,  then  take  it  off  to  cool 
and  make  into  little  cone  shapes.  Roll  each  one  into  pounded 
crackers  and  drop  in  boiling  lard  till  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  M. 
E.  L.  W.,  Md. 

Chicken   Croquettes. 
Cold  chicken,  chopped  parsley,  a  little  cream,  grated  crackers, 
lemon  flavoring,  salt  and  pepper.      Cut  chicken  very  fine  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  add  chopped  parsley,  moisten  with 

19 


218  rOTATO    CROQUETTES — CROQUETTES. 

cream  sufficient  to  make  paste  ;  mould  in  a  wineglass  with  grated 
cracker  or  bread  crumbs  on  outside.  Fry  quickly  in  liot  lard. 
Brown  ligh*^^Iy.  Lemon  flavoi'ing  can  be  added  at  will. — Mrs. 
G.  P. 

Potato   Croquettes. 

Peel,  boil,  and  mash  one  quai*t  potatoes,  mix  with  yolks  of 
four  eggs  and  some  milk. 

Set  on  the  fire,  stir  two  minutes ;  set  on  a  dish  to  cool  or  leave 
overnight.  In  tlie  morning  add  a  little  milk,  mix  thoroughly, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs ;  divide  in  cakes  and  fry  in  lard.  Take 
off  when  done  ;  drain,  dish,  and  serve  immediately. — Mrs.  E. 

Croquette  Balls. 
Chop  up  one  quart  of  any  cold  meat  very  fine,  to  which  add 
one  pint  stale  bread.  Mix  up  one  egg,  mustard,  pepper,  salt 
and  butter,  and  pour  over  the  bread  and  meat ;  roll  into  balls, 
which  must  be  rolled  into  the  white  of  an  egg,  tlien  into  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  a  nice  brown.  This  is  a  nice  side-dish  for 
breakfast  or  tea. — Mrs.  S.   G. 

Croquettes. 

Have  some  nice  pieces  of  veal  or  fowl,  chopped  fine,  season 
with  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste. 

Boil  one-half  pint  milk  with  one  small  garlic.  Thicken  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  one  tablespoonful  butter. 

Let  it  remain  till  tlioroughly  done  ;  stir  in  the  meat  and  then 
form  the  croquettes.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs,  then  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  nice  brown. — Miss  JE.  P. 

Croquettes. 

Take  cold  meat  or  fresh  meat,  with  grated  ham,  fat  and  lean, 
chopped  very^fine — add  one-half  as  much  stale  bread  grated, 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  catsup,  a  lump  of 
butter. 

Knead  all  well  together — if  not  soft  enough  add  cream  or 


SAUSAGE  CROQUETTES ^MINCE  WITH  BREAD  CRUMBS.     219 

gravy.  Make  in  cakes  the  shape  of  a  pear ;  dip  them  in  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  beaten,  roll  in  dried  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a 
light  brown. — Miss  M.  C.  L. 

Sausage  Croquettes. 
2  pounds  of  meat. 
4  eggs. 
1  cup  butter. 
1  cup  milk. 
Add  powdered  cracker   or   stale  bread  crumbs  sufBcient  to 
thicken,  while  on  the  fire.     Roll  in  oblong  shapes  and  fry  in 
lard.     Koll  the  balls  in  cracker  dust  before  frying. — Mrs.  H. 

K.  M. 

Sausage  Croquettes. 

One  pound  sausage  meat,  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  bread 
crumbs  well  minced. 

Make  the  meat  into  cakes,  then  roll  in  the  beaten  egg,  and 
afterwards  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  pan  and  serve  hot.  Cold 
ham  served  in  the  same  way  is  delicious  ;  mince  it  very  fine. — 
Mrs.  G. 

Forcemeat  Balls. 

One  pound  of  fresh  suet,  one  ounce  ready  dressed  veal,  oi 
chicken  chopped  fine,  bread  crumbs,  a  little  shallot  or  onion,  salt 
and  pepper  (white),  nutmeg ;  parsley  and  thyme,  finely  shred. 

Beat  as  many  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  as  will  make 
the  above  ingredients  into  a  moist  paste  ;  roll  into  small  balls, 
and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  When  of  a  light  brown,  take  out  with 
a  perforated  skimmer.  Foi'cemeat  balls  made  in  this  way  are 
remarkably  light,  but  being  somewhat  greasy,  some  persons 
prefer  them  with  less  suet  and  eggs. — Mrs.  A.  M.  J). 

Mince  with  Bread  Crumbs. 
Chop  up  any  kind  of  cold  meat  very  fine,  place  in  a  baking 
dish  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  lump  of  butter, 
black  pepper,  and  salt. 


220  MINCE    WITH    POTATOES HASH. 

Then  a  layer  of  minced  meat,  and  so  on  with  alternate  layers, 
till  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  over  all  a  cup  of  rich  cream,  and 
be  sure  to  have  enough  lumps  of  butter  to  make  it  rich.  Bake 
until  it  is  a  good  brown  on  top. — Mrs.  0.  M.  A. 

Mince  with  Potatoes. 

Chop  fine  any  cold  meat;  parboil  enough  Irish  potatoes  to  be 
two-thirds  as  many  as  there  is  chopped  meat.  Mix  all  together 
with  one  raw  egg,  one  onion,  black  pepper,  and  salt. 

Fry  with  butter,  either  in  large  or  small  cakes  in  a  pan,  the 
cakes  rather  larger  than  sausages.  If  you  have  cold  ham,  it  is 
an  advantage  to  add  some  of  it  to  the  mince ;  and  the  whole  is 
very  nice  made  of  cold  pickled  beef. — Mrs.  C.  M.  A. 

Pot  Pourri. 
Take  any  kind  of  fresh  meat  chopped  fine,  and  put  into  a 
stewpan  with  a  little  warm  water,  pepper  and  salt,  and  chopped 
onion.  Cook  twenty  minutes ;  then  put  into  a  baking-dish 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  and  pour  over  a  cup 
of  sweet  cream.     Bake  to  a  light  broAvn. — Mrs.  F.  D. 

Hash. 

One  and  one-half  teacup  of  boiling  water  must  be  poured 
into  a  saucepan,  mix  one  heaping  spoonful  flour  with  one  table- 
spoonful  cold  water,  stir  it  in  and  boil  three  minutes.  Then 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  salt,  half  a  small  teaspoonful  peppei',  and 
butter  size  of  an  egg. 

After  removing  all  tough,  gristly  pieces  from  the  cold  cooked 
meat,  chop  it  fine  with  some  boiled  potatoes.  Put  them  in  the 
dressing,  heat  through,  then  serve.  It  injures  meat  to  cook 
it  again,  making  it  hard  and  unpalatable.  Shoiild  you  have 
any  cold  gravy  left,  use  it ;  in  that  case  you  will  require  less 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  You  can  serve  it  with  buttered  toast 
Tindemeath,  or  you  may  set  it  into  the  oven  to  brown  on  top, 


OASSA    BOLLS — MOOK   TEKBAPIN.  221 

or  drop  eggs  into  a  skillet  of  boiling  salt  water,   and    when 
cooked,  place  on  top  of  hash. — Mrs.  J". 

Cassa  Rolls. 

Boil  some  Irish  potatoes  until  c^uite  done,  mash  them  smooth 
And  add  an  equal  quantity  of  salt  meat  chopped  fine.  Mix 
with  this  several  well  beaten  eggs,  one  spoonful  butter,  some 
pepper  and  salt. 

Bake  in  little  cakes  like  potato  cakes.- — Mrs.  F.  D, 

r 

Ragout  Souse. 

SpKt  four  feet  once,  fry  with  one  or  two  dozen  large  oysters, 
a  light  brown.  Lay  them  in  a  stewpan  over  the  liquor  from 
the  oysters,  or  some  beef  or  veal  gravy ;  add  one  large  spoonful 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  one  dozen  allspice,  beaten,  one  glass  red 
wine,  one  glass  walnut  catsup,  and  pepper. 

Stew  gently  until  dinner,  skimming  off  any  grease.  Garnish 
with  hard-boiled  eggs.  Mace  or  cloves  may  be  used  instead  of 
allspice. — Mrs.  B. 

Breakfast  Dish. 

Take  the  remnant  of  any  cold  meats,  either  boiled  or  roasted. 
Prepare  it,  as  if  for  chicken  salad,  iii  fine  shreds.  Mix  with 
potatoes  mashed  fine,  and  add  two  well- beaten  eggs. 

Season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  other  spices  if  you  like. 

Make  it  into  a  loaf  and  bake  it  brown,  or  fry  it  in  cakes  if 
preferred.— J/rs.  J.  F.  G. 

Mock  Terrapin. 

Mince  cold  veal  very  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  cayenne. 
Mash  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  three  tablespoonfula 
cooking  wine,  three  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  milk,  a  little  nut- 
meg and  a  little  mixed  mustard,  a  large  lump  of  butter  with  a 
little  flour  rubbed  in. 

Let  all  steam  five  minutes,  and  serve  hot  on  toast. 

A  nice  relish  for  breakfast  or  lunch. — Miss  E.  S.,  La. 


222  breakfast  dish — pillau. 

Breakfast  Dish. 
One  pound  pork  sausage,  one  tablespoonful  pounded  crackers, 
two  well  beaten  eggs.  Work  thoroughly  together,  and  make 
into  cakes.  These  will  be  i-ather  soft,  but  dropping  each  one 
into  a  plato  of  pounded  or  grated  cracker  will  enable  you  to 
handle  them.  Put  into  a  hot  frying-jian.  No  lard  is  to  bo 
used,  but  keep  the  pan  covered  while  frying. — Jifiss  E. 

Baked  Hash. 
Take  colS  beef  or  veal,  chop  the  meat  very  fine,  put  it  in  a 
pan  with  some  water;  add  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  bread 
crumbs  to  taste.  Season  with  a  little  chopped  onion,  parsley 
and  thyme,  all  minced  fine,  half  a  cup  milk  or  cream  with  one 
egg  beaten.  Grate  some  crumbs  over  the  top,  and  bake  till 
brown.— Jfrs.  J.  H.  F. 

Sandwiches. 

Grate  one  quarter  pounrl  cold  ham  in  a  bowl,  with  one  table- 
spoonful  chopped  pickle,  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  a  little 
black  pepper,  six  dessertspoonfuls-  butter ;  put  in  a  bowl  and 
stir  quickly  until  a  cream. 

Add  the  ham  and  seasoning,  mix  all  together  well.  Have 
slices  of  light  bread  and  spread  the  mixture  on  each  side  of  each 
slice. 

Cold  grated  tongue,  instead  of  ham,  is  very  nice  spread  on  the 
inside  of  biscuit. 

Sandwiches. 

Mince  ham  and  tongue  together,  and  spread  between  buttered  . 
bread.      Add  a  little  French  mustard  to  the  mince  if  liked.^ 
Mrs.  R. 

PiLLAU. 

Take  cold  fresh  meat,  either  chicken  or  veal,  and  cut  it  up 
quite  small  after  taking  off  the  outer  skiu  either  fat  or  gristle. 
Mix  it  well  with  some  cold  rice,  then  stir  this  in  a  batter  made 


calf's  head  pudding — pig's  head  puddikq.       223 

of  two  eggs  well  beateu,  aud  about  one   quart  milk.     Seiison 
with  salt,  pepper,  aud  butter. 

Bake  in  a  deep  dish. — 3Irs.  A.  B. 

Calf's  Head  Pubdinq. 

Skin  the  head,  take  out  the  brains.  Thoroughly  wash,  then 
soak  the  head  one  night  to  extract  the  blood.  Put  on  in  cold 
water  and  boil  five  or  six  liours,  or  until  the  bones  are  ready  to 
drop  out.  Pick  it  very  fine,  taking  all  the  bones  out ;  then  add 
the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  one  tablespoonfvil  butter,  four 
eggs  well  beaten ;  one  small  piece  of  lemon  or  pickle  ;  one  onion, 
if  liked  ;  pepper  aud  salt 

Lay  the  brains  all  over  the  top  and  bake.  Bread  crumbs  are 
an  improvement.  The  liquor  seasoned  makes  excellent  soup. — 
Miss  F.  E. 

Liver   Pudding. 

Take  two  hog's  heads,  clean  nicely  ;  two  livers,  two  lights,  aud 
cut  all  the  good  part  off"  half  a  dozen  milts  ;  half  a  dozen  sweet- 
breads; half  a  dozen  kidneys,  split  open. 

Put  all  together  in  a  tub  of  salt  and  water ;  let  them  soak 
all  night ;  take  them  out  next  morning,  put  them  in  a  kettle 
with  two  slices  of  fat  pork.  Let  all  boil  until  done,  then  take 
it  up  and  let  it  cool  a  little  and  grind  it  in  a  sausage  mill,  and 
while  grinding,  skim  some  of  the  grease  off  of  the  kettle  and 
pour  it  into  the  mill.  After  it  is  ground,  season  with  olack 
pepper,  salt,  and  onions  chopped  fine,  to  suit  the  taste. 

If  it  is  not  rich  enough,  boil  more  middling  or  pork  aud  mix 
with  the  meat ;  if  stufi"ed,  boil  again  a  few  minutes. 

Pig's   Head   Pudding. 

Boil  head  and  liver  until  perfectly  done,  cut  up  as  for  hash. 
Put  it  on  again  in  warm  water  and  season  highly  with  butter^ 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  chopped  onion. 

After  well  seasoned,  put  in  a  baking-dish  with  one  egg  beaten 


224  POTATO  r^Ji; — cKUMJi  pie. 

light.     Bake  two  hours,  aud  lay  over  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced, 
and  strips  of  pastry  across  the  top. 

Calf's  Head  Pudding  can  be  made  in  the  same  way. — Mrs 
Col.  S. 

Potato   Pie.  ' 

The  remains  of  cold  mutton,  either  roasted  or  boiled,  cut  into 
nice  slices,  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  also  sliced,  and  two  or  three 
potatoes,  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  and  pounded  mace. to  your 
taste. 

All  laid  alternately  in  a  baking-dish  and  filled  nearly  up 
with  any  gravy  or  stock  at  hand ;  cover  with  a  potato  crust,  full 
two  inches  thick,  and  bake  until  the  potatoes  are  a  nice  brown 
color.  If  the  potatoes  are  scratched  over  with  a  fork,  it  gives 
them  a  pretty,  rough  appearance.  To  make  the  crust,  boil  and 
mash  the  potatoes  with  a  little  butter  and  milk  and  a  small 
quantity  of  salt. — 3fi'S.  M.  P. 

A   Nice   Pie. 

One  pound  steak,  three  soft  crackers  rolled,  one  small  piece 
of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Bake 
in  a  deep  pan. — Mrs.  JR. 

Potato  Pie. 

A  savory  potato  pie  is  made  thus :  A  layer  of  mashed  pota- 
toes placed  in  a  pie  dish  and  then  slices  of  any  cold  meat  (if 
chicken  or  veal,  slices  of  tongue  or  ham  may  be  added),  and 
herbs,  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkled  over  to  taste.  Continue  these 
layers  alternately  till  the  dish  is  full ;  the  potatoes  must  well 
cover  the  top,  which  should  have  some  butter  added,  and  be 
brushed  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  put  into  the  oven  till 
done  through.  A  little  butter  on  each  layer  is  needed  if  the 
meat  is  not  fat,  and  it  should  not  be  too  fat. — Mrs.  S. 

Crumb  Pie. 
Mince  any  cold  meat  very  finely,  season  it  to  taste,  and  put 
it  into  a  pie  dish ;  have  some  finely  grated  bread  crumbs,  with  a 


HAGGIS — BQUAJJ  PIE.  225 

little  salt,  popper,  and  nutmeg;  and  pour  into  the  dish  any 
gravy  that  is  at  hand.  Cover  over  with  a  thick  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  and  put  small  pieces  of  butter  over  top.  Place  in  the 
oven  till  a  tine  brown.     Send  to  the  table  hot. — Mrs.  W. 

Haggis. 

Cut  cold  beef  in  pieces  and  mix  with  mashed  potatoes ;  fill  a 
baking-dish  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Bake  and 
serve  hot. 

Cold  Chicken  with  Yinegar. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  in  fine  pieces  and  crack  the  bones.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper ;  put  it  in  a  deep  baking  plate  with  a 
lump  of  butter,  and  one  tablespoonful  vinegar.  Cover  it  with 
hot  water.  Put  a  plate  over  it  and  stew  on  a  stove  or  over  hot 
embers.  Add  one  heaping  teacup  chopped  celery  to  the  mixture 
before  cooking. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

Devilled  Cold  Chicken. 
Take  the  legs  and  wings  of  any  cold  fowl. 
Dress  with  pepper,  salt,  mustard,  and  butter ;  then  broil. 

Giblet  Pie. 
Made  as  chicken  pie,   adding  livers  of  chicken  or  pigeon, 
which  have  been  boiled  in  the  water  left  from  cooking ;  celery 
and  sweet  herbs.      Season  \vith  mushroom  or  walnut  catsup. — 
Mrs.  T. 

Squab  Pie. 

After  the  squabs  are  picked  and  drawn  as  a  large  fowl  is  for 
roasting,  wash  them  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  close 
cover.  They  should  be  covered  with  boiling  water  and  boiled 
slowly  till  tender,  when  a  little  salt  and  an  onion  clove  should 
be  added.  Then  take  them  out,  drain  and  dry,  and  put  in  each 
squab  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  salt,  minced  parsley 
and  thyme.  Then  put  into  the  cavity  of  each  squab,  a  hard- 
10* 


226  BEEF   CAKES — RKtiTP'STEAK    AND    POTATOES. 

boiled  egg.  Lay  them  iu  a  large,  round,  eartheu  baking  dish, 
three  or  four  inches  deep.  Strain  over  them  the  liquor  in 
which  they  were  simmered.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
a  teacup  of  milk  or  cream.  Sift  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cracker  crumbs  not  browned,  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley 
and  thyme,  and  a  little  salt.  Put  in  a  few  slips  of  pastry. 
Cover  with  a  rich  crust  and  bake. 

The  same  i-ecipe  will  answer  for  robins,  "except  that  the  eggs 
must  be  chopped,  instead  of  being  placed  whole  in  the  cavity  of 
the  hivd.— Mrs.  JS.  T. 

Beef  Cakes. 

Chop  pieces  of  roast  beef  very  fine.  Mix  up  grated  bread 
crumbs,  chopped  onions,  and  parsley ;  season  with  peppei  and 
salt,  moisten  with  a  little  dripping  or  catsup. 

Cold  ham  or  tongue  may  be  added  to  improve  it. 

Make  in  broad,  flat  cakes,  and  spread  a  coat  of  mashed  pota 
toes  on  the  top  and  bottom  of  each.  Lay  a  piece  of  butter  on 
every  cake  and  put  it  in  an  oven  to  brown. 

Other  cold  meats  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  for 
a  breakfast  dish. — Mrs.  D. 

Fish  and  Potatoes. 

Boil  salmon  or  other  fish  ;  mash  up  boiled  Irish  potatoes ; 
chop  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Mix  all  together  with  butter ;  make  very  hot,  and  keep  it  so 
at  table. — Mrs.  M. 

Beefsteak  and  Potatoes. 

Cut  up  in  a  stewpan,  with  cold  water,  and  stew  till  well 
cooked,  the  steak  yovi  will  use ;  mash  some  potatoes  with 
creamed  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Line  a  baking  dish  with  it  and  put  in  the  steak,  seasoning 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.     Bake  a  little  while. 


baoon  fbaise — macakoni.  237 

Bacon  Euaise. 
Take  a  nice  piece  of  middliug  about  six  inches  square,  pare 
off  the  skin  and  cut  in  small  square  pieces,  then  fry  it.  Make 
a  batter  of  three  pints  flour,  five  eggs,  one  handful  parsley, 
chopped  fine.  Beat  all  light  and  fry  with  bacon.  Serve 
hot.     This  will  make  two  dishes. — Mrs.  M.  D. 

Italian  manner  of  Cooking  Macaroni. 

One  and  a  half  pound  macaroni,  parboiled  with  a  little  salt, 
and  one  clove  garlic.  One  pound  of  beef  chopped  fine,  lean 
and  fat  stewed  with  one  pint  tomatoes. 

Alternate  layers  of  macaroni  and  the  stewed  beef  with 
grated  cheese.  Add  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  a  little 
wine. 

A  thick  layer  of  grated  cracker  crumbs  and  clieese  on  top. 
Serve  ^vith  a  stand  of  grated  Stilton  cheese. — Mrs.  JR.  R. 

Macaroni. 

Break  into  pieces  one  inch  long  and  put  in  the  dish  you 
wish  to  fill,  filling  it  only  one-third  full.  Wash  well  and  boil 
in  a  covered  stewpan  until  soft  and  tender,  drain  off  all  the 
water  ;  cover  witli  this  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle 
over  pepper  and  salt,  grated  cracker,  bits  of  butter  and  grated 
cheese ;  then  another  layer  of  macaroni,  etc.,  in  the  same 
order.  When  the  dish  is  filled,  pour  over  fresh  milk  until  all 
is  barely  covered.  Sift  over  pounded  cracker  and  set  in  the 
oven.  If  it  becomes  too  brown,  sift  over  more  cracker  before 
serving. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Macaroni. 

Boil  one-half  pound  macaroni  in  water,  with  salt,  one  small 
onion  and  two  blades  mace. 

Put  in  one  sweetbread,  chopped  fine,  or  the  same  amount  of 
fresh  veal,  the  nice  part  being  taken. 

Boil  till  tender  before  taking  it  up,  drain  off  the  water  and 
add  one  large  spoonful  butter,  one-half  pint  milk,  a  quantity  of 


228  MACARONI — HOMINY   CROQUETTES. 

grated  cheese ;  one  teaspoonful  mustard ;  two  teaspoonfuls  black 
pepper,  one  pint  skinned  tomatoes,  salt  to  the  taste ;  one  egg, 
beaten  up,  is  a  great  improvement. 

Butter  a  deep  disband  bake  the  macaroni  a  light  brown. 
Have  it  served  with  a  small  bowl  of  grated  cheese,  of  the  best 
q  lality,  so  that  each  one  may  add  what  they  like. — Mrs.  M.  C. 

Macaroni. 

Parboil  enough    macaroni  to   make  a  dish ;    lay    alternate 

layers   of    macaroni,    and    grated  cheese.       Season    with   salt, 

pepper,  and  butter ;  add  three  eggs,  well  beaten,    and  enough 

milk  to  fill  a  dish.     Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  top  and  bake. 

— Mrs.  JR.  A. 

Macaroni. 

To  one  and  one-half  poiind  macaroni,  add  one  pound  beef, 
choj)ped  fine.  Make  a  stew  of  the  beef  with  one  quart  water, 
one  clove  of  garlic,  catsup,  tomato,  or  walnut,  to  suit  the  taste, 
one  dessertspoonful  currant  jelly,  salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  the  macaroni ;  put  in  a  pan  a  layer  of  macaroni  and  a 
layer  of  cheese,  with  plenty  of  butter,  using  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  for  the  dish. 

Then  pour  the  stew  over  the  top,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. — 

Miss  M.  B.  B. 

To  Boil  Hominy. 

Take  two  quarts  of  hominy,  wash  through  several  waters 
until  the  water  is  clear ;  put  it  on  to  boil  in  a  pot  half  full  of 
water,  with  a  plate  turned  down  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  to 
prevent  its  burning.  Boil  for  six  hours — do  not  stir  it ;  when 
done,  take  off  the  vessel  and  set  it  aside  in  a  cool  place.  When 
it  is  ready  to  fry,  put  a  little  lard  in  the  pan,  let  it  get  hot, 
and  mash  in  the  hominy  ;  then  add  a  little  salt.  Put  it  in  the 
pan  and  pi-ess  down  ;  •  let  it  fry  till  brown,  turning  it  upside 
down  on  the  dish. — Mrs.  P.   W. 

Hominy  Croquettes. 
To  one  cup  cold  boiled  hominy,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  melted 


FRTBD   HOMENT — SWEETBREAD,   MUSHROOM  PATES.        229 

butter,  and  stir  it  well,  adding  by  degrees  one  cup  milk,  till  all 
is  made  in  a  soft  light  paste  ;  adding  one  well-beaten  egg. 

Roll  into  oval  balls  with  floured  hands ;  dip  in  beaten  egg; 
then  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  M. 

Fried  Hominy. 
Warm  the  boiled  hominy;  add  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little  salt_ 
half  a  pint  cream,  two  eggs,  and  flour  enough  to  stiffen  the  mixt- 
ure.    Fry  like  mashed  potatoes. — Mrs.  E. 

To  Boil  Hominy, 
Soak  in  hot  water  the  overnight.     Next  morning  wash  out 
in  two  waters  and  boil  thoroughly.     A  little  milk  added  to  the 
water  whitens  and  seasons  it. — Mrs.  W. 

To  Stew,  Fry,  or  Broil  Mushrooms. 
After  you  have  peeled  them,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  water  and  lump  of 
butter.  Let  them  boil  fast  for  ten  minutes  and  stir  in  a  thick- 
ening of  flour  and  cream.  They  may  be  broiled  on  a  gridiron, 
and  seasoned  with  butter.  Fry  them  also  in  butter.  The  large 
mushrooms  are  used  for  the  two  latter  modes  of  cooking  them. 

—Mrs.  c.  a 

Sweetbread  and  Mushroom  Pat^s. 

Ten  sweetbreads,  parboiled,  skinned  and  all  the  fat  removed  ; 
cut  into  small  ])ieces.  Add  one  even  teaspoonful  salt,  one  can  of 
French  mushrooms.  Slice  thin,  add  to  juice  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  pepper,  one  saltspoonful  powdered  mace, 
lump  of  butter  size  of  guinea  egg. 

Simmer  slowly  twenty  minutes.  Add  sweetbreads  dredged 
with  one  heaping  spoonful  corn  starch,  well  mixed  in  the 
sweetbread.  Let  it  boil  up  once,  stirring  to  prevent  sticking. 
Serve  in  puff  paste  shapes,  hot.  A  little  chopped  parsley  may 
oe  added  — Mrs,  R.  R. 


230  TO    STEW   MUSHROOMS — FONDLE. 

To  Stew  Mushrooms. 

One  pint  mushroom  buttons,  three  ounces  fresh  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste,  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoonful  flour,  cream 
or  in  ilk   a  little  nutmeg. 

Pare  the  mushrooms,  put  them  into  a  basin  of  water  with  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Take  them  from  the  water,  put  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  the  above  ingredients.  Cover  the  pan  closely  and  let 
them  stew  gently  twenty  minutes.  If  the  mushrooms  are  not 
perfectly  tender,  stew  them  five  minutes  longer  ;  remove  every 
particle  of  butter  which  may  be  floating  on  top,  and  serve. — 

Mrs.  a  a 

Broiled  Mushrooms. 
Cleanse  the  large  mushrooms  by  wiping  with  flannel  and  a 
little  salt.  Cut  off"  stalks  and  peel  the  tops;  broil  them  over  a 
clear  fire,  turning  them  once.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish.  Put  a 
small  piece  of  butter  on  each  mushroom,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt;  squeeze  over  them  a  little  lemon  juice.  Place  before 
the  fire,  and  when  the   butter  is  melted,  serve  quickly. — Mrs. 

a  a 

Fondle. 

2  ounces  bvitter. 

4  ounces  bread  crumbs. 

8  ounces  cheese. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

.3  eggs. 
Cut  the  butter  and  cheese  into  small  pieces  and  place  them  iu 
a  large  bowl  with  the  bread  ;  on  this  pour  scalding  milk,  after 
wliich  add  the  yolks  well  beaten,  also  a  little  salt.  Mix  well 
together,  cover  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  range,  fitirring 
occasionally,  till  all  is  dissolved ;  when  add  the  whites  beaten  to 
a  stifi"  froth.  Place  in  a  buttered  pie-plate  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve  as  soon  as  taken  from  the 
stove.     Mustard  is  considered  by  some  an  improvement. — Mrs. 


welsh  rahebit fried  arples.  231 

Welsh   Rakebit. 
Cut  up  cheese  fine  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  butter, 
add  one  or  two  spoonfuls  beer,  and  boil  till  the  cheese  is  well 
dissolved.     Cut  a  slice   of  bread,  pour  on  the  cheese  ;    season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  catsup. — Mrs.  S. 

Rice   and   Egg    Pat^s. 

Mix  cold  rice  with  well-beaten  eggs,  season  with  pepper,  and 
palt. 

Then  cook  like  scrambled  egg  ;  don't  let  the  rice  b\irn. 

Tongue   and   Prunes. 

Get  a  fresh  beef  tongue,  parboil  and  skin  it.  Add  one 
pound  prunes,  one  pound  raisins,  one-quarter  pound  sugar, 
spices  to  the  taste. 

Let  it  stew  until  perfectly  well  cooked. 

When  nearly  done,  add  one  lemon. — Miss  M.  JB.  li. 

To  Stew  Dried  Apples,  Peaches,  Quinces,  or  Pears. 

Take  three  pounds  of  dried  fruit ;  wash  it  in  lukewarm  water, 
through  three  or  four  waters,  rubbing  it  hard.  Pour  on  this 
five  quarts  boiling  water  ;  boil  at  least  three  hours.  Just  be- 
fore taking  from  the  fire,  add  two  teacups  nice  brown  sugar. 
Do  liot  stir,  except  occasionally,  to  prevent  sticking  to  the 
bottom.  Try  to  cook  the  pieces  of  fruit  separate,  except  the 
apples,  whicli  run  through  a  colander  and  season  with  nutmeg. 
The  other  fruits  need  no  seasoning.- — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Fried   Apples. 

Slice  apples  without  peeling ;  cut  and  fry  some  thin  slices  of 
breakfast  bacon  until  thoroughly  done  ;  remove  the  slices  from 
the  vessel,  adding  water  to  the  gravy  left.  Put  in  apples  and 
fry  until  done,  sweetening  to  taste. — Mrs.   O.  B. 


232  spiced  apples — eggs. 

Spiced   Apples. 

8  pounds  apples  pared. 

4  pounds  sugar. 

1  quart  vinegar. 

1  ounce  stick  cinnamon. 

^  ounce  cloves. 
Boil  the  SI  gar,  vinegar,  and  spices  together ;  put  in  the  apples 
when  boiling,  and  let  them  remain  until  tender ;  then  take  them 
out  and  put  them  in  a  jar ;  boil  the  syrup  down,  and  pour  over 
them. 

Stewed   Prunes. 

Immediately  after  breakfast,  wash  two  poixnds  prunes  in 
several  waters,  rubbing  them  in  the  hands. 

Put  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  one  gallon  boiling  water. 
Simmer  three  or  four  hours.  Add  two  teacups  light  brown 
sugar  and  boil  till  the  syrup  is  thick.  Keep  closely  covered 
and  do  not  stir,  so  each  prune  may  be  stewed  whole.  Put  in*  a 
shallow  bowl  and  set  to  cool.  This  amount  will  make  two 
dishes. 

Excellent  side  dish  for  winter  or  spring. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


EGGS. 

Properly  cooked,  eggs  are  very  wholesome  and  nutritious  diet. 
Always  be  certain,  however,  that  they  are  fresh,  before  attempt- 
big  to  make  a  dish  of  them.  Some  persons  use  Krepp's  family 
egg-tester,  to  ascertain  if  an  egg  is  sound.  Full  directions,  as  to 
the  mode  of  using  it,  accompany  the  egg  tester ;  so  it  is  imneces- 
sary  to  give  them  here.  A  simple  mode  of  testing  the  sound- 
ness of  an  egg,  is  to  put  it  in  water ;  and  if  fresh  it  will  sink  to 
the  bottom. 


boilkd  eggs — egg  gups,  a  beeakfast  dish,       233 

Boiled  Eggs. 
Let  the  water  be  boiling  when  you  put  the  eggs  in  it,  and  let 
the  eggs  boil  three  minutes  after  putting  them  in. — Mrs.  IS.  T, 

Soft-boiled  Eggs. 
Put  the  eggs  in  a  large  tin  cup  or  any  tin  vessel  convenient. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and  let  them  remain  near  the 
lire,  five  minutes.  Do  not  let  them  boil.  Eggs  cooked  thus 
are  slightly  jellied  throughout.  They  can  be  kept  hot  without 
becoming  hard. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 
Beat  four  eggs  very  light.     Add  a  teacup  milk,  thickened 
with  a  teasjjoonful  flour.     Have   the  pan  very  hot,   put  in  a 
tablespoonful  butter,  pour  in  the  eggs,  and  scramble  quickly. — 
Mrs.  E. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 
Wash  the  pan  with  hot  water  and  soap.     Wipe  dry.      Grease 
with  a  little  lard.     Break  into  this  the  eggs,  adding  a  lump  of 
butter  and  a  little  salt.     Stir  till  done. — Mrs.  B. 

Eggs  for  Breakfast. 
Heat  in  the  oven  a  common  white  dish,  lai-ge  enough  to  hold 
the  number  of  eggs  to  be  cooked,  allowing  plenty  of  room  for 
each.  Melt  in  it  a  small  piece  of  butter,  break  the  eggs,  one 
at  a  time,  carefully  in  a  saucer,  and  slip  them  in  the  hot  dish. 
Sprinkle  over  them  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  them  cook  four  or 
five  minutes.  It  is  a  great  improvement  to  allow  to  every  two 
eggs  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  adding  it  when  the  eggs  are  first 
put  in. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

Egg  Cups — A  Breakfast  Dish, 
Boil   some  eggs  perfectly  hard.     Halve  them,  take  out  the 
yolks,  Mhicli  mix  smoothly  with  some  finely  chopped  or  ground 
ham  or  fowl,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  melted  butter 

•20 


234  OMELETTE. 

or  salad  oil.  Cut  a  piece  oif  the  bottom  of  each  white  half,  to 
make  them  stand,  and  fill  each  with  a  chopped  mixture.  Make 
a  sauce  of  sweet  cream,  boiled  within  an  inner  saucepan,  and 
pour  over  the  eggs.  Decorate  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  sprigs 
of  curled  parsley. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

Omelette. 

Break  six  eggs  in  a  pan,  beat  them  well  togetlier,  add 
half  a  gill  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  a  few 
sprigs  of  parsley  chopped  fine.  Beat  all  well  together. 
Have  the  cooking-pan  hot  enough  to  brown  the  butter.  Put 
in  half  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Pour  the  mixture  in  the  pan 
or  skillet  to  cook.  When  sufficiently  done,  roll  with  a  spoon 
and  turn  into  the  dish. — Miss  E.  P. 

Omelette. 

Boil  one  pint  milk  in  a  shallow  vessel. 

Beat  up  four  eggs  very  light ;  add  salt,  peppei-,  and  a  little 
flour,  making  it  of  the  consistency  of  paste.  Put  this  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Have  a  pan  well  buttered,  into  which  turn  the 
mixture,  and  set  inside  an  oven  to  bake  a  light  brown.  Serve 
immediately. — Mrs.  JT.  D. 

Omelette. 
6  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

2  ounces  butter. 

Salt  and  jaepper  to  the  taste. 
Chopped  parsley  or  celery. 
Fry  a  light  brown  in  a  well  buttered  pan.      Some  minced 
ham  oi  oystets  improve  the  flavor. — 3frs.  li. 

Omelette. 
4  eggs  beaten  separately. 

3  tablespoonfuls  cream. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

—Mrs.  G.   W.  P 


omelette  souffle — german  omelette.  236 

Omelette  Souffle. 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  -v^ery  light. 
Put  on  the  stove  a  teacup  milk  with  a  piece  of  butter  in  it 
the  size  oi  a  walnut.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  mix*in  one 
tablespoonful  corn  starch.  Mix  this  witli  the  yolks,  add  salt 
to  the  taste,  then  stir  in  slowly  the  whites.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
pudding  dish,  fifteen  minutes,  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  M.  E. 
L.  W\ 

Mock  Omelette. 

Two  cups  bread  crumbs  soaked  all  night  in  one  and  one-half 
cup  milk.  Add,  next  morning,  three  eggs,  whites  lightly 
stirred  in ;  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  salt. — Mrs.  JS.  W. 

Ham  Omelette. 
1  ounce  minced  ham. 
A  little  pepper. 
Eggs  beaten  very  light  and  fried  in  lard. 

—MissE.  W. 
Cheese  Omelette. 
3  eggs  beaten  to  a  thick  froth. 
^  teacup  grated  cracker. 
3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese. 
Cook  in  a  frying-pan  with  butter. 
Some  persons  add  chopped  thyme  and  parsley. — Mrs.  P. 

German  Omelette. 

3  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately). 

Mix  thoroughly  one-half  teacup  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
flour.  Then  add  it  to  the  yolks  (well  beaten)  together  with  a 
little  salt.  Pour  this  mixture  into  a  moderately  hot  pan, 
greased  with  butter.  When  this  is  neai"ly  done  (which  will  be 
in  about  five  minutes),  add  the  whites,  stiffly  frothed  and  slightly 
salted,  spreading  them  over  the  whole  surface.  Run  a  knife  care- 
fully around  the  edges,  and  turn  into  a  heated  dish  when  done. 


236  POACHED  EGGS — HAM  AND  EGGS. 

It  is  an  improvement  to  mix  one-third  of  the  frothed  whites 
with  the  yolks  before  pouring  into  the  pan. — Mrs.  M.  C.  G. 

Poached  Eggs. 

Let  the  eggs  be  perfectly  fresh,  and  the  pan  at  least  twc 
inches  deep  in  boiling  water.  Break  the  eggs  carefully,  just 
over  the  water  or  in  a  spoon,  so  that  they  may  be  slipped  into 
tha  Avater  with  their  shape  preserved.  Take  them  up  in  a  large 
perforated  spoon,  cover  with  fresh  melted  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  salt — never  peppei-,  as  some  persons  do  not  use  it,  and  it 
mars  the  appearance  of  the  dish. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Eggs  with  Toast.     i^A  Spring  Dish.) 

Gut  bread  in  squares,  and  toast  a  light  brown.  Poach  eggs 
nicely,  place  each  one  on  a  piece  of  toast.  Pour  melted  butter 
over  them,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Bumble  Eggs. 

Beat  up  three  eggs  with  two  ounces  fresh  butter  or  well 
washed  salt  butter.  Add  a  teaspoonful  cream  or  new  milk. 
Put  all  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  over  the  fire  five  minutes.  When 
it  rises  up,  dish  it  immediately  on  toast. — Mrs.  S. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

Slice  the  ham  rather  thick.  Fry  in  a  hot  pan.  Before  it 
becomes  hard,  take  from  the  pan  and  lay  in  a  dish  over  a  vessel 
of  hot  water. 

Let  the  pan  remain  on  the  fixe,  so  as  to  keep  the  ham  gravy 
liot,  that  it  may  cook  the  eggs  nicely  when  dropj)ed  into  it. 
Break  the  eggs  carefuUy,  drop  them  in  whole,  and  do  not  let 
them  touch  each  other.  Cook  a  light  brown,  not  allowinj^ 
the  yolks  to  get  hard.  Lay  an  egg  on  each  slice  of  meat.— 
Mrs.  S.  T. 


HAM   AND   EGG   PUDDING- -STUFFED    EGGS.  237 

Ham  and  Egg  Pudding.     {A  Spring  Dish.) 
6  eggs  beaten  very  light. 
A  light  piat  of  flour. 
A  pint  of  milk. 
A  small  piece  of  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Sprinkle  some  slices  of  boiled  ham  (both  fat  and  lean)  with 
pepper,  and  lay  them  across  a  deep  dish  that  has  been  greased. 
Then  pour  the  pudding  batter  over  the  bacon  and  bake  quickly. 
Mrs.  V.  P.  M. 

Eggs  a  la  Cr^me. 

Six  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  fine,  and  stale  bread.  Put 
in  a  dish  alternate  layers  of  chopped  egg  and  grated  bread. 
When  the  dish  is  full,  pour  on  one  pint  boiling  milk  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Bake  a  light 
brown. — Miss  iV. 

Baked  Eggs  for  Dinner. 

Have  ready  eight  or  ten  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  cup  of  light 
gi'ated  bread  crumbs,  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Place  in  a 
buttered  pudding  dish  a  layer  of  sliced  eggs,  dotted  with  bits  of 
butter,  and  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pejjper  ;  next  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  and  so  on  to  the  top,  being  careful  to  let  the  top 
layer  be  of  bread  crumbs. — Mrs.  A.  M.  D. 

Egg  Pie. 
Take  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  slice,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter,  bake  in  a  paste,  top  and  bottom. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 
Boll  six  eggs  very  hard.  Peel  them,  and  after  having  sliced 
a  bit  ofl'  of  each  end  to  make  them  stand  well,  cut  in  halves  and 
extrtict  the  yolks.  Rub  up  the  yolks  with  a  pinch  of  pepper 
ftud  salt,  melted  butter,  bread  crumbs,  and  finely  chopped 
celery.     Fill  in  the  whites  nicely,  stand  on  end  in  the  pan,  laj 

-Mrs.  D.  P. 


238  VEGETABLES — TO   COOK   ASPAflAGUS. 

VEGETABLES. 

If  possible,  use  vegetables  gathered  early  in  the  morning,  with 
the  dew  on  them.  It  is  even  better  to  gather  them  late  the 
evening  before,  with  the  evening  dew  on  them  (setting  them  iE 
the  ice-house  or  some  cool  place),  than  to  gather  them  after  the 
morning  sun  has  grown  hot.  If  you  are  living  in  the  city,  get 
your  vegetables  from  market  as  early  in  the  morning  as  possible. 

As  soon  as  gathered  or  brought  from  market,  all  vegetableiS 
should  be  carefu.lly  picked  over,  washed,  placed  in  fresh  water, 
and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  the  cook  is  ready  to  put  them  on  for 
dinner. 

Put  them  on  in  water  neither  cold  nor  boiling  hot.  The  slow 
heating  that  takes  place  when  you  put  them  on  in  cold  water 
deprives  them  of  their  flavor,  to  some  extent,  whilst  too  rapid 
heating  toughens  the  vegetable  fibre. 

Just  before  they  are  thoroughly  done  and  tender,  add  suffi- 
cient salt  to  season  them.  Do  not  stir  them  and  mutilate  them 
with  a  spoon,  but  turn  them  into  a  colander  and  dr-aiu.  Place 
them  in  a  hot  dish  and  put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter 
over  them. 

In  cooking  dried  peas  and  beans,  as  well  as  corn,  put  vip  in 
brine,  always  soak  them  the  overnight.  These  vegetables 
should  first  be  parboiled,  whether  they  are  to  be  used  for  soup 
or  for  side  dishes. 

To  Boil  Green  Peas. 

Early  in  the  morning,  either  buy  the  peas  from  market  or 
have  them  gathered  in  your  garden,  while  tlie  dew  is  on  them. 
Shell  and  lay  in  cold  water  till  half  an  hour  before  dinner.  Then 
put  in  boiling  water  and  boil  steadily  a  half  houf.  Add  a  little 
salt,  just  before  taking  from  the  fire.  Drain,  add  a  heaping 
tablespoonful  fresh  butter  and  put  in  a  covered  dish. — 3frs.  S.  T. 

To  Cook  Asparagus. 
As  soon  as  you  get  the  asparagus  from  market  or  your  gar- 


TO   COOK   ASPABAGUS — TO   FKY   ONIONS.  239 

den,  throw  into  salt  and  water,  after  scraping  the  outer  skin 
and  tying  up  in  bunches.  .Put  on  to  boil  one  hour  before  din- 
ner. Afier  boiling  thirty  minutes,  drain,  cut  in  pieces  half  an 
inch  long,  and  put  in  the  saucepan  with  enough  uiilk  to  cover 
them.  Just  before  serving,  add  one  tablespoonful  fresh  butter, 
in  which  one  teaspoonful  flour  has  been  rubbed.  Season  with 
salt  and  jjepper. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To   Cook  Aspa/ragus. 
Wash  well,  scrape,  cut  off  the  tough  end,  tie  up  in  bunches 
and  put  in  boiling  water  with  a  spoonful  of  salt.     Boil  thirty 
minutes  or  till  tender.     Lay  it  on  slices  of  toast  in  a  dish,  pour 
melted  butter  over  it,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  P.   W. 

To  Boil  Beets. 
Wash  them.  Do  not  break  or  cut  the  roots.  Leave  an  inch 
of  the  tops,  so  that  the  color  and  juice  cannot  escape.  Boil  hard 
for  two  hours.  When  tender,  slice  them,  sprinkling  over  them 
sugar,  then  butter  and  salt  to  the  taste.  Sugar  is  the  greatest 
improvement. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Bake  Onions. 
Boil  six  onions  in  water,  or  milk  and  water  with  a  seasoning 
of  pepper  and  salt.  When  done  enough  to  mash,  take  them 
off,  mash  them  with  butter,  grate  bread  crumbs -over  them  and 
set  them  to  bake.  Or  place  them  whole  in  the  baking  dish 
with  butter  and  bread  crumbs. 

To  Cook  Onions. 
Boil  till  tender,  in   milk   and  water.      Pour  melted  butter 
over  them,  and  serve  ;  or  chop  up  and  stew  with  a  little  milk, 
butter,  and  salt. 

To  Fry  Onions. 

Wash  and  slice  them.     Chop  fine,  put  in  a  frying-pan  and 
cover  with  water.     Simmer  till  the  water  is  dried  up,  then  fry 


240  TO   DKESS   KAW    ONIONS TO   STEW   CYMLINGS. 

brown,  with  a  large  slice  of  fat  pork.     A.dd  pepper  and  salt. — 
Mrs.S.  T. 

To  Dress  Raw  Onions. 

Slice  and  chop  fine,  and  put  in  weak  salt  and  water  till  just 
before  dinner.  Then  drain  oflF  and  dress  with  half  a  teacup 
vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  pepper  vinegar,  two  tablespoon fuls 
made  mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  salt. 

Lay  a  large  lump  of  ice  on  top,  and  garnish  with  curled  par- 
sley ;  which,  eaten  after  onions,  is  said  to  remove  the  scent  from 
the  breath. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Radishes. 

As  soon  as  taken  from  the  ground,  put  in  cold  water.  Then 
put  red  and  white  radishes  alternately  in  a  dish  of  fanciful  de- 
sign, ornamenting  with  curled  parsley,  in  the  centre  and  around 
the  edges. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Celery. 

Wash  carefully  and  put  in  cold  water  to  keep  crisp  till  din- 
ner. Remove  all  the  green,  as  nothing  is  so  ornamental  as  the 
pure  white  leaves  of  bleached  celery.  If  the  ends  of  the  stalks 
have  been  broken,  split  and  curl  them. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Boil  Snaps. 
Early  in  the   morning,  string  round,  tender  snaps.     Throw 
into  water  and  set  in  a  cool  place,  till  an  hour  before  dinner, 
when  they  must  be   drained  and  thrown  into  a  pot  where  the 
bacon  is  boiling. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Boil  Snaps  Without  Bacon. 
Prepare  as  above  directed.     Boil  an  hour  in  hot  water,  adding 
a  little  salt,  just  before  they  are  done.      Drain  and  serve  with 
pepi^er,  fresh  butter  and  a  little  cream. — Mrs.  S.   T. 

To  Stew  Cymlings  {or  Squash,  as  it  is  sometimes  called). 
Peel  and  boil  till  tender.     Run  through  a  colander.     To  a  pint 


TO   FRY   OTMLTNGS — TO   BOIL   GEEEN   CORN.  S54rl 

of  pulp,  add  one  half  pint  rich  milk,  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
fresh  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Stew  till  thick  like  marmalade. 
Pepper  freely,  pour  over  it,  if  convenient,  half  teacup  cream, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

•  To  Fry  Cymlings. 

Steam  or  boil  the  cymlings  (unpeeled),  till  tender.  When 
uool,  slice  and  butter  them,  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  and  pour 
over  them  a  spoonful  of  eggs,  lightly  beaten.  Sift  over  it 
cracker,  pounded  fine,  and  fry  a  light  yellow  brown.  Take  from 
the  frying  pan,  prepare  the  other  side  the  same  way.  Return 
to  the  pan  and  fry  it  a  pale  brown. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cymlings  Fried  with  Bacon. 
Fry  some  slices  of  fat  bacon  in  a  pan.  Remove  the  bacon 
when  done  and  keep  hot.  Fry  in  the  gravy  some  cymlings  that 
have  been  boiled  tender  and  cut  in  slices.  Wliile  frying,  mash 
fine  with  a  large  spoon,  and  add  pepper  and  salt.  Fry  brown, 
and  serve  with  the  bacon,  if  you  like. — Mrs.  G.  B. 

Cymling  Fritters. 

After  boiling  and  running  through  a  colander,  mix  with  an 
egg,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  make  into  cakes  and 
fry  a  light  brown. 

Cymling  Pudding. 

Boil  young  cymlings,  mash  and  run  through  a  colander.  Add 
one  teacup  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a  large  lump  of  butter,  pepper 
and  salt. 

Put  in  a  buttered  deep  dish,  and  bake  a  light  brown.  For 
a  change,  you  might  line  the  dish  with  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread,  pour  in  the  cymling  batter  and  put  some  pieces  of  butter 
and  grated  cracker  on  top. — Mrs.  M.   C.  C. 

To  Boil  Green  Corn. 
Strip  oflf  the  outer  shucks,  leaving  only  the  thin  white  ones. 
Chit  oflF  the  ends.     Throw  into  boiling  water.     Boil  an  hour. 

21 


242  CORN   PUDDING OOEN   FRITTERS. 

Strip  off  the  silk  with  the  shuck.  Cut  from  the  cob  while  hot. 
Sprinkle  over  salt,  add  a  tablespoonfui  fresh  butter  and  serve 
hot.— Mrs.  S.  T. 

Corn  Pudding. 

1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

1  dessertspoonful  white  sugar. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  cornstarch  or  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

6  ears  of  corn. 
With  a  sharj)  knife,  slit  each  row  of  corn  in  the  centre. 
Then  shave  in  thinnest  slices.  Add  the  corn  to  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  next  the  butter,  cornstarch,  sugar,  and  salt,  then  the  milk, 
gradually,  and  last  of  all  the  whites.  Bake  in  a  hot  oveu.  As 
soon  as  a  light  brown  on  top,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper. 
Grate  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  over  it  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Corn  Pudding. 
One  dozen  large  ears  corn.     Cut  off  the  top  of  the  grain ,  scrape 
with  a  knife,  so  as  to  get  the   heart  of  the  grain   without  the 
husk.     Season  with  a  teacup  of  cream,  a  large  tablespoonfui  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.     Bake  in  a  dish. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Corn  Fritters. 

3  dozen  ears  corn 

6  eggs,  beaten  well. 

3  tablespoonfuls  flour 

Salt  to  the  taste. 
Grate  the  com,  add  to  it  the  flour,  and  gradually  mix  with 
the  eggs.  Beat  all  hard  together.  Drop  in  oval  shapes,  three 
inches  long,  into  a  pan,  in  which  fry  them  brown,  in  equal 
parts  of  lard  and  butter.  A  batter  cake-turner  is  convenient 
for  turning  them. — Mrs.  Dr.  tT. 


CORN   FRrrrEES — BAKED   TOMATOES.  24S 

Com  Fritters. 
8  large  ears  of  corn,  cut  three  times  (not  grated). 
2  eggs. 

1  teacup  sweet  milk  (or  more,  if  the  corn  is  not  juicy). 

2  teaspoonfuls  flour. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Make  the  mixture  the  consistency  of  a  soft  batter,  and  fry  in 
lard  or  butter. — Mrs.  A.  TF. 

Corn  Fritters  for  Breakfast. 
Make  a  batter  as  you  would  for  fritters,  put  in  pepper,  salt, 
lard,  or  butter,  add  to  a  quart  of  batter,  a  pint  of  corn,  cut  from 
the  cob,  and  fry. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

1  quart  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes  (not  scalded). 

1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  dessertspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

1  roll  of  bread. 
Spread  a  layer  of  tomatoes  on  the  bottom  of  an  earthen 
(never  a  tin)  baking  dish.  Put  over  it  half  the  sugar,  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  crumble  half  the  roll  over  it  in  small 
bits,  llien  spread  another  layer  of  tomato,  sugar,  etc.,  ending 
with  the  remaining  half  of  the  roll.  Grate  cracker  or  hard 
brown  biscuit  on  top,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Saked  Tomatoes. 
Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  or  else  peel  thin  with  a  sharp 
knife,  without  scalding.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  season  with  a 
little  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  and  finely  minced  onion.  Grease  a 
baking  dish  and  line  it  with  thin  slices  of  light  bread  buttered. 
Pour  the  tomatoes  in  the  dish,  crumming  up  a  little  light  bread 


244  STEWED   TOMATOES — ROPA    VIOA. 

on   them.      Spread  on  top   a  layer  of  heavily  buttered  light 
bread,  and  bake. — Mrs.  M.  C.  C. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  chop  tomatoes  till  you  have  a  quart.  Add  one  tea- 
cup brown  sugar,  one  teacup  butter,  one  teacup  bi'ead  crumbs. 
On^  tablespoonful  salt ;  one  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

Stew  till  free  from  lumps  and  perfectly  done.  Pour  in  a 
deep  dish,  sift  powdered  crackers  over  it,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 
Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  chop  fine,  season   with   salt, 
pepper,  onion,  and  a  little  sugar.     Put  in  some  pieces  of  but- 
tered light  bread,  cut  up  very  fine.     Add  a  lump  of  butter,  and 
stew  in  a  saucepan. — Mrs.   V.  P.  M. 

Tomato  Omelette. 
Peel  and  chop  fine  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  a  little  onion  minced  fine,  a  half  teacup  grated  bread. 
Beat  five  eggs  to  a  foam,  stir  into  the  tomatoes  and  turn  the 
mixture  into  a  hot  pan,  greased  with  butter,  stir  rapidly  till  it 
begins  to  thicken.  Let  it  brown  a  few  minutes  on  the  bottom, 
then  fold  it  half  over  and  serve  hot.  This  dish  may  be  made  of 
canned  tomatoes,  when  fresh  cannot  be  obtained. — Mrs.  I.   Q-. 

Fried  Tomatoes. 
Slice  tomatoes  one-quarter  inch  thick.  Put  them  in  a  skillet 
in  which  a  spoonful  of  nice  lard  has  been  melted.  After  get- 
ting hot,  the  skins  of  the  tomatoes  may  be  removed.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  take  the  tomatoes  out,  thieken  the  gra^y 
with  a  teacup  cream  in  which  a  teaspoonful  flour  has  been 
stirred.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  a  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over 
them.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  C.  L.  T. 

RoPA  YlOA. 
Select  fine  ripe  tomatoes.     Pour  boiling  water  over  them  8o 


TOMATO   TOAST — LIMA   BEANS.  245 

as  to  remove  the  skins  readily.  Put  them  in  a  pan  of  melted 
butter,  with  some  pepper  and  salt.  Shred  cold  meat  or  fowl 
over  them.     Fry  sufficiently,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  A.  D. 

Tomato  Toast. 

Put  some  canned  tomatoes  in  a  frying  pan  with  a  little 
butter  and  salt.  Cook  lightly  and  pour  over  slices  of  toasted 
bread,  buttered  and  softened  with  cream. — Mrs.  Dr.  G. 

To  DRESS  Raw  Tomatoes. 

Slice  a  plateful  large  fresh  tomatoes.  Pour  over  them  a 
dressing  made  of  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  olive  oil,  creamed 
smoothly  together  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste  ;  one  teaspoon- 
ful  prepared  mustard,  a  little  vinegar.  If  you  like,  you  may 
add  sugar. — Mrs.  R.  L.  O. 

To  dress  Maw  Tomatoes, 

Peel  and  cut  in  thick  slices  six  large  I'ipe  tomatoes  which 
have  been  kept  on  ice.  Put  a  layer  into  a  salad  bowl,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  sugar.  Put  in  another  layer, 
and  so  on,  till  all  the  tomatoes  are  disposed  of.  Pour  over  the 
top  a  teacup  of  weak  vinegar.  Cover  the  top  with  ice,  and  set 
in  the  refrigerator  ten  minutes  before  serving. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Lima  Beans. 

Shell  and  throw  into  cold  water.  Put  in  boiling  water  an 
hour  before  dinner ;  add  some  salt ;  when  tender,  drain  off  the 
water  and  add  a  tablespoonful  fresh  butter.  Beans  are  seldom 
cooked  enough. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

lAma  3eans. 

Shell  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Boil  thoroughly,  and  then  ste"* 
a  little  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  cream. — Mrs.  JR. 


246  succotash — to  boil  leis^  potatoes. 

Succotash. 

1  pint  shelled  Lima  beans. 

1  qviart  green  corn,  cut  from  the  cob. 

1  quart  tomatoes,  prepared  and  seasoned  as  for  baking. 
Boil  the  corn  and  beans  together  tiU  done,  then  drain  off  the 
water  and  pour  in  a  cup  of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
salt  to  the  taste.  Let  it  boil  up,  and  then  pour  in  the  tomatoes. 
Let  all  simmer  an  hour.  Baked  or  stewed  dishes  should  have 
cracker  or  brown  biscuit  grated  on  top,  before  sending  to  the 
t&hh.— Mrs.  S.   T. 

To  Fry  Cucumbers. 

Peel,  cut  lengthwise  in  thick  slices  and  lay  in  water  till  just 

before  dinner.     Wipe  dry,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip 

in  beaten  egg,  sift  over  pounded  cracker  and  fry  with  the  cover 

on  till  Hght  brown.     Prepare  exactly  as  egg-plant. — Mrs.  8.  T. 

To  Dress  Cucumbers  Raw. 
Gather  early  in  the  morning,  peel,  lay  in  cold  water  till  just 
before  dinner.  Then  drain,  slice  as  thin  as  possible  into  ice 
water,  which  drain  and  then  fill  a  dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
sliced  cucumber  and  thinly  sliced  white  onion,  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Pour  a  cup  of  weak  vinegar  over  it  and  lay 
a  lump  of  ice  on  top. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Okra. 

Boil  young  okra  till  tender,  in  salt  and  water.  Drain,  add 
half  a  teacup  of  ci'eam,  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  butter.  Let 
it  boil  up,  turn  it  out  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over 
it  and  serve  hot. 

To  Boil  Irish  Potatoes.  - 

Old  potatoes  must  be  nicely  peeled  and  dropped  in  boiling 
water,  covered  with  a  lid  and  boiled  hard  half  an  hour.  Then 
drain  off  the  water  and  set  by  the  fire.  This  makes  them 
mealy. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


okeamed  potatobs potato  hash.  247 

Creamed  Potatoes. 
Peel  and  boil  white  mealy  potatoes,  till  perfectly  done.  Take 
out  one  at  a  time  from  the  saucepan,  which  must  be  left  on  the 
fire.  With  a  large  spoon,  masli  perfectly  fine  ;  add  salt,  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  butter  and  a  teacup  rich  milk.  Stir 
rapidly  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  and  send  hot  to  the  table.  It  is 
much  lighter  when  well  creamed  and  beaten. — Mrs.  S.   T. 

Potato  Snow. 
Peel  and  boil  in  a  saucepan,  six  large  mealy  white  potatoes. 
Add  a  little  salt  to  the  water.  Take  them  out  one  by  one, 
leaving  the  saucepan  on  the  tire.  Rub  through  a  sieve  into  a 
deep  dish,  letting  it  fall  in  a  mound.  Do  not  touch  with  a 
spoon  or  the  hand.  Have  a  sauce-boat  of  melted  butter  to 
serve  with  it  at  table. — Jlfrs.  S.  T. 

Irish  Potato  Chips. 
Shave   the  raw  potatoes  with  a  cabbage  cutter.     Drop  the 
pieces,  one  at  a  time,  into  boiling  lard,   and  fry  a  rich  brown. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them. — Mrs.  R.  L.  O. 

To  Fry  Sliced   Potatoes. 
Peel  and  slice  thin.     Dry  well  in  a  cloth.     Fry  in  lard,  stir- 
ring till  crisp.     Take  up  and  lay  on  a  sieve  to  drain.     Sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over  them. — Mrs.  K. 

Potato  Cakes. 
Mash  potatoes,  just  boiled.     Add  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and 
cream,  make  into  cakes,  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides. — Mrs.  P. 

w. 

Potato  Pudding. 
May  be  made  by  putting  potatoes  prepared  exactly  as  above 
directed,  in  a  pudding  dish,  and  baking. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Potato  Ha.sh. 
Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  slices.     Put  in  a  pan  with  boiling 


248     TO  BOIL   SWEET   POTATOES — TO   STEW   EGG-PLANTS. 

water,  adding  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.     Stew  till  thick,  and 
serve. — Mrs.  Dr.   G. 

To  Boil  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Boil  large,  SQiooth  potatoes  till  quite  done.    Peel   and  slice 
lengthwise.     Pour  melted  butter  over  them.     Some  })ersons  like 
a  dressing  of  pepper,  salt,  butter,  and  cream.     Others  prefer 
butter,  sifted  sugar,  and  grated  nutmeg. 

To  Fky  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Parboil  and  cut  in  thick  slices,  spi'inkling  over  them  pepper, 
salt,  and  sugar.     Fry  with  a  sKce  of  fat  pork.     Take  from  the 
pan,  sift  over  them  pounded  cracker,  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Cook  Inferior  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Boil  till  nearly  done.  Cut  in  thick  slices ;  put  a  layer  in  the 
bottom  of  a  baking  dish.  Put  pepper,  salt,  sugar,  bits  of  but- 
ter^  and  a  teaspoonful  vinegar  on  this  layer,  and  so  on  till  the 
dish  is  filled,  leaving  a  layer  of  seasoning  for  the  top.  Pour 
over  it  a  teacup  rich  milk.  Put  a  tin  plate  on  top  and  bake  a 
few  minutes.     Put  grated  cracker,  on  top. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Dress  Yams. 
Steam  them  till  done,  peel  and  slice  them.     Put  in  a  buttered 
baking-dish  a  layer  of  yam,  on  which  put  sugar  and  some  lumps 
of  butter.     Fill  up  the  dish   in  this  way,  and  when  full,  pour 
over  it  milk  or  cream,  and  bake  brown. — Mrs.  Dr.  P.  C 

To  Stew  Egg-plants. 

Put  them  on  whole  in  a  plenty  of  water,  and  let  them  simmer 
till  tender.  Then  take  off  the  skin  and  divide  them.  Mash 
them  well  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  a  large  spoonful  butter  and 
some  grated  bread  crumbs.  Grate  bread  crumbs  on  top,  and 
brown  it. 

Purpli  egg-plants  are  best. — Mrs.  M, 


TO   FEY   EGG-PLANT — TO   FEY   PAB8NIPS.  249 

To  Fry  Egg-plant. 
Cut  the  egg-plant  in  thick  slices,  carefully  paring  each  piece. 
Throw  it  in  salt  and  water,  and  let  it  remain  there  several 
hours.  Take  from  the  water,  drain  and  wipe.  Then  butter 
the  slices  of  egg-plant,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  grated  cracker, 
and  fry  a  light  brown.  Pepper,  grate  more  cracker  over  them, 
and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Egg-plant  Pudding. 

Quarter  the  egg-plant  and  lay  it  in  salt  and  water  the  over- 
night, to  extract  the  bitterness.  The  next  day,  parboil,  peel 
and  chop  fine,  and  add  bread  crumbs  (one  teacup  to  a  pint  of 
egg-plant),  eggs  (two  to  a  pint  of  egg-plant),  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter  to  taste ;  enough  milk  to  make  a  good  batter. 

Bake  in  an  earthen  dish  twenty  miniitiss. — Mrs.  JR.  L.  0. 

To  Bake  Egg-plant. 
Parboil  the  egg-plant.      Take  out  the  meat  and  mix  it  with 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  bread  crumbs.     Fill  the  hulls  with  this 
mixture  and  bake  a  dark  brown.      Cucumbers  may  be  prepared 
by  the  same  recipe. 

Burr  Artichokes. 
Strip  off  the  coarse  outer  leaves,  cut  the  stalk,  and  lay  several 
hours  in  cold  water.  Then  put  in  boiling  water,  with  their 
leaves  downward.  Keep  covered  with  a  plate.  Boil  steadily 
two  or  three  hours.  Serve  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  mustard, 
and  vinegar. — Mrs.  M. 

To  Stew  Parsnips. 
Peel  and  sKce  parsnips.     Boil  them  in  a  covered  vessel  with 
slices  of  nice  pork,  until  done,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
—Mrs.  G.B. 

To  Fry  Parsnips. 
Peel  and  parboil  the  parsnips.     SUce  lengthwise,  and  fry  with 
fat  pork,  sprinkling  over  them  salt,  pepper,  and  sugai.     Grate 


250  TO   COOK   PAK8NIP8 — TO   FKY   SALSIFY. 

bread  crumbs  over  it  and  serve.     Salsify  may  be  cooked  the 

same  way. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Cook  Parsnips. 
Boil  the  parsnips  till  thoroughly  done.     Serve  with  salt,  pep- 
per, butter,  and  cream;  or  mash  the  parsnips,  mix  with  an  egg 
batter,  and  season  as  before. 

To  Cook  Salsify. 
Wash,  trim,  scrape  the  roots  and  cut  them  up  fine.     Boil  till 
tender,  mash  and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  bread  crumbs,  but- 
ter, and  milk.     Put  in  a  dish,  and  bake  brown. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

To  Stew  Salsify. 
Scrape  and  throw  at  once  in  water  to  prevent  from  turning 
dark.     Boil  till  tender  in  a  closely  covered  vessel.     Drain  off 
the  water  and  cut   the   salsify   in  pieces   half  an   inch   long. 
Throw  in  a  saucepan  with 

1  teacup  vinegar. 
1  teacup  water. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Just  before  serving,  add   the  yolk  of  an  egg,  beaten  up  and 
mixed  with  a  little  water.     The  seasoning  above  given  is  for 
one  quart  salsify. — Mrs.  iS.  T. 

Another  Way  to  Stew  Salsify. 
Prepare  the  salsify  exactly  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  Boil 
till  tender,  drain  and  cut  in  pieces,  half  an  inch  long,  and  then 
stew  in  milk.  Just  before  serving,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, rolled  in  a  teaspoonful  flour.  Let  it  boil  up  once.  Pepper 
and  salt  it,  grate  cracker  over  it  and  serve. — 3frs.  S.  T. 

To  Fry  Salsify. 
Prepare  as  for  stewing.     When  perfectly  tender,  run  through 
a  colander.     Add  grated  cracker,  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  ont, 


TO   BOIL   CABBAGE   WITH   BAOON — WARM    SLAW.        251 

tablespoonful  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  a  little  pepper.  Make  into  oval 
cakes,  roll  in  grated  cracker,  and  fry  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Boil  Cabbage  with  Bacon. 
Quarter  a  head  of  hard  white  cabbage,  examine  for  insects, 
lay  in  salt  and  water  several  hours.  An  hour  before  dinner, 
drain  and  put  in  a  pot  in  which  bacon  has  been  boiling — a  pod 
of  red  pepper  boiled  with  it  will  make  it  more  wholesome  and 
improve  the  flavor  of  both  bacon  and  cabbage. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cabbage   Boiled   without   Bacon. 
Prepare  exactly  as  directed  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  "" 

Boil  an  hour  in  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water.  Drain,  chop 
fine,  add  a  tablespoonful  butter,  the  same  of  cream,  the  same  of 
pepper-viaegar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  your  taste. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cabbage  Pudding. 

Boil  nice,  hard,  white  cabbage  with  good  bacon. 

When  thoroughly  done,  chop  fine  and  add  a  large  lump  ot 
butter,  one  teacup  rich  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  light,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  mixed  mustard  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

Pour  in  a  buttered  deep  dish ;  put  on  top  dusted  pepper, 
bits  of  fresh  butter,  and  grated  cracker  or  stale  bread. 

Bake  a  light  brown.— ilfrs.  M.  G.  G. 

Gabhage   Pudding. 

Boil  the  cabbage  till  tender,  chop  fine  and  add  four  eggs,  well 

beaten,  one  pound   bread    crumbs,  one  teacup  melted  butter, 

milk  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  mush,  salt  and  pepper  to  the 

taste.     Bake  in  a  dish  till  the  eggs  and  milk  are  cooked. — Mrs. 

McD. 

Warm   Slaw. 

Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  tablespoon- 
ful flour.     Put  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  in  the  oven 


252  WARM   SLAW — SPmAOH. 

to  melt.  Salt  and  pepper  the  cabbage  and  put  it  in  the  oven 
with  the  butter.  Mix  half  a  teacup  of  cream  with  the  same 
quantity  of  vinegar,  pour  it  over  the  cabbage  and  heat  thorough- 
ly.—iffrs.  S.  G. 

Warm  Slaw. 
Cut  the  cabbage  (hard  red  is  best)  as  for  cold  slaw.  Put  in 
a  saucepan  one-quarter  pound  butter,  two  gills  water,  three 
gills  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  If 
you  like,  add  a  garlic,  minced  fine.  When  this  mixture  has 
come  to  a  boil,  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  cabbage,  and  cover  it 
five  or  ten  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Warm    Slaw. 

Wash  the  cabbage,  cut  fine  and  put  on  the  fire  with  enough 
water  to  keep  it  from  burning. 

When  sufficiently  tender,  have  ready  a  dressing  made  of  vine- 
gar, pepper,  salt,  mustai-d,  a  spoonful  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  beaten  eggs,  all  thoroughly  mixed.  Stir  this  quickly  in  the 
cabbage  and  let  it  boil  up. — Jfrs.  Col.  W. 

Fried   Cabbage. 
Reserve  some  cabbage  from  dinner.     Set  it  away  till  next 
morning.     Chop  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  brown 
with  a  slice  of  fat  bacon. 

Cauliflower. 
Remove  the  outside  leaves.  Cut  in  four  parts,  tie  them  to- 
gether, put  in  boiling  water  and  let  them  simmer  till  the  stalk 
is  thoroughly  tender,  keeping  it  covered  with  water,  and  remov- 
ing the  scum.  Boil  two  hours,  drain  well  and  serve  witji  melt- 
ed butter.  You  may  cook  broccoli  by  the  same  recipe,  except 
that  you  cut  it  in  two  pieces  instead  of  four. — Mrs.  M. 

Spinach. 
Pick  and  soaK  several  hours  in  cold  water.     Drain  and  shake 


TURNIP  SALAD— RESIPEE  FOR  CUKIN  KON-FEEL  PEES.      253 

each  bunch.  Throw  in  boiUng  water  and  boil  till  tender.  Take 
up  with  a  perforated  skimmer.  Put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  butter ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  in  three 
hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  up.  Let  it  simmer,  stirring  frequent- 
ly. Put  in  a  deep  dish  and  cover  with  nicely  poached  eggs, 
buttered,  peppered,  and  salted.  Sea-kale  may  be  prepared  by 
the  same  recipe. — il/rs.  S.  T. 

Turnip  Salad. 

Pick  early  in  the  morning.     Wash  one  peck  and  put  in  cold 

water.     Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water  in  which  a  piece  of 

bacon  has  boiled  several  hours,  and  the  amount  of  water  become 

much  reduced.     Take  out  the  bacon,  put  in  the  salad,  put  the 

bacon  back  on  top  of  the  salad,  and  boil  till  very  tender.     Dip 

from  the  pot  with  a  perforated  skimmer,  lay  in  a  deep  dish, 

skim  the  fat  from  the  liquor  and  pour  over  the  salad.     Cover 

with  nicely  poached  eggs.     Cover  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

Any  other  kind   of   salad  might  be  cooked  by  this  recipe. — 

Mrs.  S.  T. 

Turnips. 

Boil  and  mash  through  a  colander.    Season  with  a  cup  cream, 

spoonful  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  stew  quite  dry.     Then 

you  may  bake  them. — Mrs.  Col.  W. 

To  Stew  Turnips. 
Peel  five  or  six  turnips  and  put  on  to  boil,  adding  a  little 
salt  to  the  water.  When  thoroughly  done,  mash  fine  through  a 
colander,  season  with  a  teacup  of  cream,  or  milk,  a  tablespoonful 
butter,  red  and  black  pepper,  and  a  little  more  salt,  if  needed. 
Stew  two  or  three  minutes.  Cabbage  prepared  the  same  way  is 
very  nice. — Mrs.  C.  M.  A. 

Resipee  for  cukin  kon-feel  Pees. 
Gether    your   pees  'bout  sun-down.      The  folrin  day,  'bout 
leven  o'clock,  gowge  out  your  pees  with  your  thum  nale,  like 


254  OOKNFIELD  OB  BLACK  EYE  PEAS — COEN  PUT  IN  BRINE. 

gowgin  out  a  man's  eye-ball  at  a  kote  house.  Rense  your  pees, 
parbile  them,  then  fry  'em  with  som  several  slices  uv  streeki 
middlin,  incouragin  uv  the  gravy  to  seep  out  and  intermarry 
with  your  pees.  When  modritly  brov/n,  but  not  scorcht,  empty 
intoo  a  dish.  Mash  'em  gently  with  a  spune,  mix  with  raw 
tomarfcers  sprinkled  with  a  little  brown  shugar  and  the  immortal 
dish  ar  quite  ready.  Eat  a  hepe.  Eat  mo  and  mo.  It  is  good 
for  your  genral  helth  uv  mind  and  body.  It  fattens  you  up, 
makes  you  sassy,  goes  throo  and  throo  your  very  soul.  But 
why  don't  you  eat  ?  Eat  on.  By  Jings.  Eat.  Stop  !  Never, 
while  thar  is  a  pee  in  the  dish. — Mozis  Addwms. 

Cornfield  or  Black  Eye  Peas. 

Shell  early  in  the  morning,  throw  into  water  till  an  hour 
before  dinner,  when  put  into  boiling  water,  covering  close  while 
cooking.  Add  a  little  salt,  just  before  taking  from  the  fire. 
Drain  and  serve  with  a  large  spoonful  fresh  butter,  or  put  in  a 
pan  with  a  slice  of  fat  meat,  and  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Dried 
peas  must  be  soaked  ovei'night,  and  cooked  twice  as  long  as 
fresh.— JIfrs.  S.  T. 

To  Boil  Dried  Peas. 

Soak  in  boiling  water  the  night  before.  Then  next  day  par- 
boil and  drain.  Put  in  fx-esh  water  with  a  piece  of  middling  or 
ham,  and  boil  till  tender. — Mrs.  Col.   W. 

To  Boil  Dried  Lima,  or  other  Beans. 
Soak  overnight.     Next  morning,  soak  in  fresh  water  till  two 
hours  before  dinner,  when  boil  steadily  in  a  covered  saucepan 
two  hours.     Drain  and  add  a  large  spoonful  fresh  butter,  and  a 
Uttle  salt.— J/r«.  S.  T. 

Corn  Put  up  in  Brine. 
Late  as  possible  in  the  fall  prepare  tender  roasting  oars  for 
winter  use.     Strip  off  the  outer  shuck,  leaving  the  inner,  silky 
ones  next  to  the  grain.     Have  ready  a  nice  clean  wooden  firkin 


PT0KLE8   AND   CATSUPS.  255 

or  tub,  properly  scalded  and  sunned.  Sprinkle  salt  over  the 
bottom.  Pack  closely  with  corn.  Wash  a  large  flat  root  and 
lay  on  the  top,  when  nearly  full.  Pour  strong  brine  over  the 
corn,  covering  it  well.  The  day  before  using,  strip  off  the 
shuck  and  silk,  place  in  a  bucket  of  cold  water  (renewing  the 
water  once,  or  twice),  and  let  it  stand  till  ready  to  use  it.  Tw» 
ears  soaked  thus,  and  shaved  into  a  pot  of  soup  with  other  veg 
etables,  will  impart  a  delicious  flavor. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


PICKLES   AND   CATSUPS. 

For  pickles  and  catsups,  use  the  best  cider  vinegar,  it  being 
not  only  more  wholesome  than  other  kinds  of  vinegar,  but 
the  only  sort  that  will  keep  pickles  or  catsup  for  any  length  of 
time. 

In  making  catsup,  or  in  scalding  pickles  in  vinegar,  if  a  brass 
kettle  is  used,  it  must  be  scoured  with  sand  and  ashes,  washed 
and  wiped  dry,  and  then  scoured  with  vinegar  and  salt.  By 
sttendingto  these  directions, the  brass  kettle  maybe  safely  used 
— ^though  the  pickles  or  catsup  must  be  poured  from  it  the 
instant  it  is  taken  from  the  fire,  or  they^will  canker. 

In  making  pickles,  it  is  a  good  rule  to  allow  two  pounds  of 
sugar  to  each  gallon  of  vinegar  for  sour  pickle,  though  a  larger 
proportion  must  be  allowed  for  sweet  pickle. 

Vinegar  for  pickling  should  be  spiced  and  set  to  sun  from 
spring  to  autumn.  Never  put  pickle  in  a  jar  that  has  been 
used  for  butter  or  lard.  Examine  often  to  see  if  the  pickle  is 
well  covered  with  vinegar,  and  if  any  of  it  has  turned  soft, 
remove  it.  Keep  it  in  a  dry,  airy  closet,  and  be  careful  not  to 
let  it  freeze.  Pickle  is  generally  considered  best  when  from  six 
months  to  a  year  old.  Some  housekeepers  use  the  same  vine- 
gar (with  a  slight  addition)  from  year  to  year,  by  draining  the 
pickle  as  they  take  it  out  of  the  jar. 


256  PICKLE   VINEGAE — VINEGAR  FOB  PICKLES. 

Pickle  ViiraiaAR. 
2  gallons  cider  vinegar. 
4  ounces  white  pepper,  beaten. 
4  ounces  whole  allspice. 

4  ounces  mustard-seed. 

2  ounces  ground  mustard. 
2  ounces  of  mace. 
2  ounces  of  turmeric. 
2  ounces  of  white  ginger. 
2  ounces  of  garlic. 
2  ounces  of  horseradish. 
2  gills  of  celery-seed. 
2  sliced  lemons. 

5  pounds  of  sugar. 

This  ought  to  be  prepared  several  months  before  using,  and 
always  kept  on  hand  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Pickle    Vinega/r. 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

1  pint  black  mustard-seed. 
4  ounces  ginger. 

3  ounces  allspice. 
1  oiince  cloves. 

4  ounces  whole  black  pepper.  , 

1  oiince  celery-seed. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 

2  handfuls  scraped  horseradish. 
1  handful  garlic. 

3  sliced  lemons. 

Make  in  May,  and  sun  all  summer. — Mrs.  D.  M. 

Vinegar  for  Pickles. 
2  gallons  vinegar. 
1  cup  bruised  ginger, 
1  cup  black  mustard-seed. 


YELLOW   PICBXE   VINEGAB.  25? 

1  cup  garKc. 

^  cup  black  pepper. 

1  cup  celery-seed. 
•^  cup  of  mace. 

^  cup  of  cloves. 
^  cup  of  turmeric. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
1  pod  red  pepper. 

1  handful  horseradish.  — Mrs.  P.   TPI 

Cucumbers  (sliced),  snaps,  gherkins,  muskmelons,  cabbage, 
onions,  or  anything  to  be  put  into  the  spiced  vinegar,  must  be 
previously  boiled  tender  in  strong  vinegar  and  salt — well 
pressed  out — and  then  put  into  the  pickle  vinegar,  will  soon  be 
ready  for  use. — Mrs.  J'.  JT.  C. 

Yellow  Pickle  Yinegar. 

2  gallons  of  pure  cider  vinegar. 
1  pint  black  mustard-seed. 

1  pint  white  mustard-seed. 

2  ounces  ground  mustard. 

4  ounces  white  ginger. 

3  ounces  pepper. 
3  ounces  allspice. 
1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 

1  large  handful  horseradish. 
1  handful  garlic. 
1  spoonful  salt. 
1  gill  celery-seed. 
6  lemons. 

5  pounds  sugar. 

The  liquid  should  be  mixed  in  the  spring,  and  set  in  tbe  sun 
—Mrs.  T.  M.  a 

22 


258       ingkedient8  to  one  gaixon  gkeen  pickle. 

Ingredients  to  One  Gallon  Green  Pickle. 

3  pounds  of  sugar. 

^  ounce  of  mace,  full  weight,  and  beaten. 

^  ounce  of  black  pepper,  full  weight,  and  beaten. 

1  ounce  ginger,  light  weight,  and  beaten. 

•^  ounce  allspice,  light  weight. 

■^  ounce  cloves,  light  weight. 

^  tablespoonful  salt,  light  weight. 

•^  ounce  celery-seed,  light  weight. 

2\  ounces  ciauamon,  beaten. — 3frs.  Dr.  P.  C. 

Preparing  Pickles. 

Vegetables  for  pickle  should  be  kept  in  cold  and  strong  brine 
till  they  turn  yellow :  then  put  vine-leaves  in  the  bottom  of  the 
kettle,  then  a  layer  of  vegetables  and  a  layer  of  leaves  till  full. 
Pour  on  them,  boiling  salt  and  water  and  let  them  boil  until 
a  bright  green.  Take  them,  while  hot,  and  place  in  weak  vine- 
gar for  a  whole  week.  Then  add  them  to  the  spiced  vinegar. 
Afterwards  rub  on  them  a  little  turmeiic.  Prepare  the  spiced 
vinegar  in  May,  and  expose  to  the  sun  every  day  for  sonie  time. 
—Mrs.  R. 

Yellow  Pickle. 
2  gallons  vinegar. 

2  pounds  sugar. 
1  ounce  turmeri 

3  ounces  allspice 
1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  pint  mustard-seed. 

2  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed. 

Pound  all  together  and  stir  into  the  hot  cider  vinegar  for 
several  minutes.  Prepare  your  vegetables  by  quartering  the 
cabbage  and  scalding  them  in  brine ;  cover  them  and  leave  until 


YELLOW   PICKLE.  259 

cold  ;  squeeze  dry  and  hang  in  the  sun :  when  bleached,  throw 
in  plain  vinegar,  then  into  the  spiced  vinegar. — Mrs.  P. 

Yellow  Pickle. 
2^  gallons  vinegar. 
7  pounds  sugar. 
1  pound  white  mustard-seed. 
1  bottle  mustard. 

1  pound  white  ginger. 
\  pound  white  pepper. 
\  pound  turmeric. 

2  ounces  nutmeg. 
2  ounces  allspice. 
2  ounces  cloves. 

2  ounces  celery-seed. 

Pound  them  all  before  putting  in  the  vinegar,  add  one  pound 
scraped  horseradish,  half-dozen  lemons  sliced. 

Scald  two  dozen  onions,  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  let  them 
stand  a  day ;  drain  off  the  water  and  wash  well  with  the  vine- 
gar. Add  them  to  your  spiced  vinegar.  Cut  your  cabbage 
and  scald  them  in  strong  salt  water  till  you  can  run  a  straw 
through  them ;  drain  them  for  a  day  and  put  into  plain  vine- 
gar for  two  weeks  ;  let  them  drain  again  a  day  or  two  before 
putting  into  the  prepared  vinegar.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls 
turmeric  in  the  plain  vinegar  to  turn  the  cabbage  yellow. — Mrs. 
J.T.A. 

Yellow  Pickle. 

One  peck  cabbage  cut  up.  Lay  in  a  jar,  sprinkling  with 
salt;  leave  it  twenty-four  hours;  squeeze  out  and  put  in  a 
kettle  with  half  a  dozen  onions  chopped,  cover  with  vinegar, 
add  one  ounce  turmeric,  and  boil  one  hour.     Then  add : 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

\  ounce  mace. 

\  ounce  allspice. 

\  ounce  cloves. 


260  YELLOW   PICKLE YELLOW   PICKLED    CABBAGE. 

4  tablespoonfuls  mixed  mustard. 

1  teacup  black  peppercorn, 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  ginger, 

2  tablespoonfuls  celerj-seed. 
Boil  till  clear. — Mrs.  S.  B. 

Yellow  Pickle. 
2  gallons  cider  vinegar. 
4  ounces  beaten  white  pepper. 
4  ounces  whole  allspice. 
4  ounces  white  mustard-seed. 
4  ounces  black  mustard-seed. 
2  ounces  mace. 
2  ounces  turmeric. 
2  ounces  white  ginger. 

2  ounces  gi-ound  mustard. 

3  ounces  garlic. 

3  ounces  horseradish. 
2  gills  celery-seed. 

4  sliced  lemons. 

6  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Should  be  prepared  months  before  using.  Cabbage  to  be 
pickled  should  be  boiled  or  scalded  in  salt  and  water  until  the 
leaves  can  be  turned  back  so  as  to  sprinkle  salt  between  them  ; 
then  must  be  dried  in  the  sun.  Shake  all  the  salt  out  when 
dry,  and  soak  in  plain  vinegar,  with  a  little  turmeric  sprinkled 
on  each  layer  of  cabbage.  After  ten  days,  drain  them  and  put 
in  the  spiced  vinegar. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Yellow  Pickled  Cabbage. 
1  ounce  turmeric. 
1  gill  black  pepper. 
1  gill  celery-seed. 
A.  few  cloves, 
A  few  pieces  of  ginger. 


A   QUICK  WAT   TO  MAKE   YELLOW   FICEIE.  261 

4  tablespoonfnls  made  mustard. 
^  ounce  mace. 
2  pounds  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 

Take  one  peck  of  quartered  cabbage  ;  slice  them  and  put  a 
layer  of  cabbage  and  one  of  salt ;  let  it  remain  over  night.  In 
the  morning  squeeze  them  and  put  on  the  fire  with  four  chopped 
onions,  and  cover  with  vinegar ;  boil  for  an  hour,  then  add  the 
spices  mentioned  above,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  longer ;  when 
cold  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  TF]  S.  M. 

A    QUICK   WAY    TO    MAKE   YeLLOW    PiCKLE. 

Two  gallons  chopped  cabbage,  sprinkle  one  handful  salt 
through  it,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Squeeze  it  out  dry  and 
put  into  a  kettle.  Add  one  ounce  of  celery-seed,  one  ounce 
of  turmeric,  one  quarter-pound  of  mustard-seed,  (black  and 
white  mixed),  five  pounds  brown  sugar,  with  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  the  whole  well. 

Boil  until  the  cabbage  is  tender.  Put  it  in  stone  jars  and 
keep  it  closely  covered.  It  is  fit  for  use  the  day  after  it  is 
made. — Mrs.  J.  C.  W. 

Yellow  Pickle. 

2  ounces  black  mustard-seed. 
2  ounces  white  mustard-seed. 
2  ounces  celery-seed. 

1  ounce  coriander. 
1  ounce  white  pepper. 

1  ounce  green  ginger. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 

1  pound  brown  sugar. 

Put  these  in  one  and  one-half  gallons  best  cider  vinegar,  and 

set  in  the  sun.     This  can  be  prepared  during  the  winter,  if  you 

choose.     Quarter  your  cabbages  (small  heads  about  the  size  of 

a  large  apple  are  best),  and  put  in  a  tub.     Make  a  strong  brine, 


262  CABBAGE   PIOBXE   FOR   PRESENT   USE. 

boil  and  pour  over  while  hot.  Let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours 
and  then  repeat.  On  the  third  day  spread  them  on  a  board 
or  table,  salt  them  slightly,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  hot  sun  four 
days,  taking  care  that  no  dew  shall  fall  on  them.  Put  iu  ajar, 
and  pour  on  your  prepared  vinegar  boiling  hot.  This  pickle 
will  not  be  ready  for  the  table  till  it  has  softened  and  absorbed 
the  vinegar,  Yovi  can  judge  of  this  by  your  taste.  To  make 
quick  pickle  by  this  recipe,  you  simply  salt  your  cabbage  for 
one  night,  pouring  off  in  the  morning  the  water  drawn  out  by 
the  salt.  Then  put  in  the  kettle  with  the  spices  and  vinegar, 
and  boil  until  a  straw  will  go  through. — Mrs.  tT.  B.  D. 

Cabbage  Pickle  for  Present  Use. 
Boil  the  cabbage  in  salt  and  water  till  tender ;  lay  them  on 
dishes,  drain  or  press  them  in  a  towel. 

Boil  together  two  gallons  strong  vinegar. 

1  pint  white  mustard-seed. 

4  ounces  ginger. 

3  ounces  black  pepper. 

3  ounces  allspice. 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  turmeric. 

1  lai-ge  handful  horseradish. 

1  large  handful  garlic. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

Pour  it  over  the  cabbage  boiling  hot.     If  you  have  no  garlic, 
use  one  pint  onions  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  S. 

Cut  Cabbage  Pickle. 
Fill  the  jar  with  cut  cabbage.     To  every  gallon  of  cabbage  put 
one  handful  horseradish. 

3  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 
\  tablespoonful  red  pepper. 


CHOPPED   CABBAGE   PICKLE. 

3  tablespoonfuls  coriander -seed, 

3  tablespoonfuls  celery -seed. 
2  tablespoonfuls  mace. 

2  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 

1  dozen  cloves. 

1^  teacup  made  mustard. 

4  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard-seed. 
1  pound  sugar. 

4  or  6  sliced  onions. 
Salt  your  cabbage  first  as  for  slaw,  and  let  it  stand  two  or 
Ibree  hours.  Put  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cover  with  weak 
vinegar ;  put  turmeric  enough  to  color,  boil  it  till  tender,  then 
drain  dflf'the  weak  vinegar,  and  cover  it  with  strong  cider  vine- 
gar, and  mix  the  spices  well  through  it ;  add  three  or  more 
tablespoonfuls  turmeric,  and  boil  the  whole  fifteen  minutes  very 
hard.      When  cold,  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  S.  M. 

Chopped  Cabbage  Pickle. 
Cut  the  cabbage  as  for  slaw,  pour  over  it  enough  boiling 
orine  to  cover  it.  Chop  and  scald  a  few  onions  in  the  same 
way,  cover  both,  and  leave  twenty-four  hours ;  then  squeeze  in 
a  cloth  until  free  from  brine.  If  it  should  taste  very  salt,  soak 
in  clear  water  for  a  few  hours  and  squeeze  again.  Loosen  and 
mix  the  cabbage  and  onions  thoroughly.  To  one-half  gallon 
cabbage  put : 

1  small  cut  onion. 

1  pound  brown  sugar. 

1  small  box  mustard. 

^  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

1  small  cup  grated  horseradish. 

^  ounce  mace. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  black  pepper. 

2  ounces  celery-seed. 
1  ounce  turmeric. 

Chopped  celery  and  nasturtiums,  if  they  can  be  had.     Mix 


£04  GEBEN   PICKLE. 

all,  and  cover  with^cold  vinegar.     If  necessary,  add  more  vine- 
gar after  it  has  stood  awhile. — Mrs.  G.  N. 

Green  Pickle. 
Put  the  pickles  in  a  strong  brine,  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
egg.  Three  weeks  is  long  enough  for  them  to  remain  in  brine, 
if  you  wish  to  make  your  pickle  early  in  the  fall ;  but  they  will 
keep  several  months,  indeed  all  the  winter,  by  having  them 
always  well  covered  with  the  brine. 

When  ready  to  make  your  pickle,  drain  off  every  drop  of 
brine,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  the  pickles.  Repeat  this  for 
three  mornings  in  succession.  Then  pour  off  this  last  water, 
and  soak  the  pickles  two  days  in  cold  water,  changing  the 
water  each  morning.  Next,  pouring  off  this  water,  scald  the 
pickles  three  mornings  in  weak  vinegar,  weakening  the  vinegar 
by  putting  two  quarts  of  water  to  one  of  vinegar.  This  is  the 
time  for  gx-eening  the  pickles,  by  putting  in  the  jar  or  keg  a 
layer  of  pickle,  then  sprinkling  in  a  little  powdered  alum,  and 
so  on,  till  the  vessel  is  filled  ;  then  pouring  on  the  weakened 
vinegar.  Only  use  the  alum  the  first  morning ;  but  the  other 
mornings  pour  off  the  vinegar  and  pour  on  a  fresh  quantity. 
All  this  is  necessary,  if  you  wish  to  have  pickle  perfectly  free 
from  the  brine,  and  in  a  condition  to  keep.  Fill  your  jars  with 
the  pickle  thus  prepared,  and  pour  over  them  the  best  of  vin- 
egar, after  seasoning  it  and  letting  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Sea- 
soning to  one  gallon  vinegar  : 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice. 

1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 

1  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  aU  pounded. 

20  drops  oil  of  cloves,  or  3  ounces  of  cloves. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

1  pod  red  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish. — Mrs.  C 


GBEBN   FIOKLES.  265 

€hreen  JPichles. 
Put  the  pickle  in  strong  Inine  for  two  days ;  then  boil  the 
brine  and  pour  it  over  them  hot.  Repeat  this  twice.  Then 
pour  over  them  boiling  vinegar  and  water  mixed,  three  succes- 
sive times,  at  intervals  of  two  days.  For  a  three-gallon  jar 
take : 

1  teacup  black  pepper. 

1  teacup  allspice. 

^  teacup  of  ginger. 

^  teacup  of  mace. 

^  teacup  of  cloves,  all  beaten,  but  not  fine. 

2  heads  of  cabbage  chopped  fine. 
2  teacups  horseradish. 

8  onions  chopped  fine. 
1  quart  mustard  seed. 
Take  half  of  the  beaten  spices  and  mix  with  the  latter  ingre- 
dients, also  three  cups  of  brown  sugar  ;  stuff  the  mangoes  with 
this.     Add  the  rest  to  the  vinegar  with  five  poimds  of  sugar, 
and  pour  on  the  pickle  hot. 

This  makes  very  superior  pickle. — Miss  S.  S.  V. 

Green  Pichle  [3  gaUo7is'\. 

2  ounces  mace. 

^  pound  ginger,  scalded  and  sliced. 

2  ounces  cloves. 

2  ounces  cinnamon. 

2  ounces  long  pepper. 

2  ounces  black  pepper. 

2  ounces  allspice. 

1  ounce  nutmeg. 

\  pound  horseradish  scraped,  sliced,  but  not  driea. 

1  ounce  turmeric. 

4  ounces  black  mustard-seed. 

1  ounce  coriander-seed. 

23 


260  CU0UMBEE8   OR   OTHER   SMALL   PICKLES. 

2  ounces  garlic,  or  onion. 
2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

Prepare  the  cucumbers  as  follows  :  gather  cucumbers,  snaps, 
etc.,  and  put  them  in  a  large  stone  jar,  pouring  over  them  a 
strong  brine  which  has  beeji  boiled  and  skimmed — hot,  but  not 
boiling ;  cover  with  an  old  table-cloth  to  keep  the  steam  in. 
Let  them  stand  about  a  week,  then  take  and  soak  twenty-four 
hours  in  cold  water.  Next  put  them  in  a  large  kettle  lined 
with  grape  leaves,  and  fill,  covering  with  weak  vinegar.  Sprin- 
kle in  a  dessertspoonful  of  powdered  alum,  and  cover  with  grape 
leaves,  setting  on  the  stove  until  a  beautiful  bright  green.  Put 
in  a  jar  and  pour  this  vinegar  over  them  and  let  them  stand 
until  next  day ;  then  dry  the  pickles  with  a  cloth,  and  have 
ready  the  jar,  putting  in  a  layer  of  the  pickles  with  a  layer  of 
the  seasoning  before  mentioned  ;  fill  with  strong  cider  vinegar. 
Tie  up  closely,  and  keep  in  a  warm,  dry  place. 

The .  spices  must  be  bruised  or  beaten  tolerately  fine  before 
putting  with  pickles  ;  and  a  little  salad  oil  added  is  an  improve- 
ment.— Mrs.  P.  Mc  O. 

Cucumbers  or  other  small  Pickles. 

2  gallons  vinegar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

2  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  turmeric. 

1  tablespoonful  horseradish. 

1  tablespoonful  garlic. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pepper. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  teaspoonful  of  mace. 

1  teaspoonful  of  allspice  ;  all  the  spices  miist  be  pulverized. 

Add  the  garlic  and  horseradish  when  cold.  Add  two  pounds 
sugar,  which  must  be  boiled  in  the  vinegar  and  poured  over  the 
spices.     One  teaspoonful  red  pepper  will  improve  it.     Boil  the 


PIOKLED   OUOUMBBBS CUCUMBER   PICKLE.  267 

vegetiibles  in  plain  vinegar  before  putting  in  the  spiced  vine- 
gar. 

Gherkins  and  snaps  are  made  in  the  same  way  as  cucumbors- 
—Mrs.  S. 

Pickled  Cucumbers. 

^  gallon  vinegar. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
2  tablespoonfuls  cloves. 
2  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 
2  tablespoonfuls  mustard. 
2  tablespoonfuls  celery. 

1  tablespoonful  white  ginger. 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

2  pods  green  pepper. 

4  lemons  sliced. 

A  little  horseradish. 

12  onions,  and  as  many  cucumbers  as  the  vinegar  will  weli 
cover. 

Boil  all  together  until  the  cucumbers  are  tender,  and  they 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  week  or  so.  To  green  the  fruit :  line 
your  brass  kettle  with  grape-leaves,  and  then  pour  weak  vine- 
gar on  the  cucumbers,  cover  with  leaves,  and  boil  a  little  while, 
—Mrs.  E.  I. 

Cucumber  Pickle. 

2  gallons  good  vinegar. 
1  cup  bruised  ginger. 
1  cup  mustard-seed. 

1  cup  garlic. 

2  onions  chopped  fine. 
■^  teacup  black  pepper. 
1  teacup  celery -seed. 

■J  ounce  mace. 
•^  ounce  cloves. 
•J  ounce  turmeric. 


268      BOILED   CUCUMBEE   PICKLE PICKLED   0UCUMBEB8. 

1  pod  red  pepper. 

1  handful  horseradish. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
After  greening  the  cucumbers,  put  them  in  plain  vinegar  for 
a  few  days.     Then  boil  the  spices  in  one  gallon  of  the  vinegar, 
and  pom-  it  over  the  pickle  boiling  hot.     Do  this  twice ;  it  will 
be  ready  for  use  in  a  week. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Boiled  Cucumber  Yiokle. 

Take  fresh  cucumbers  (size  for  eating),  put  them  in  brine  for 
a  few  days;  take  them  out,  and  put  them  in  vinegar  to  soak  for 
two  days.  Then  wipe  them  dry,  cut  them  in  pieces  one  inch 
thick.  Make  a  seasoning  of  a  mixture  of  allspice,  cloves,  mace, 
niitmeg,  and  whole  black  pepper,  about  two  ounces  to  seventy- 
five  cucumbers.     Add  celery-seed,  and  onion  chopped  fine. 

Take  a  large  stone  jar,  put  a  layer  of  cucumber  and  a  layer 
of  the  mixture,  with  plenty  of  brown  sugar  (about  eight  pounds 
to  a  large  jar).  In  this  way  fill  the  jar,  then  cover  it  with 
strong  vinegar :  tie  the  mouth  up  securely,  put  the  jar  in  a  pot 
of  cold  water,  and  boil  until  the  cucumber  is  tender,  and  they 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  days. — Mis.  C.  C.  McP. 

Pickled  Cucumbers. 

Put  them  in  a  wooden  or  stone  vessel,  pour  over  strong  salt 
and  wa  ter  boiling  hot,  put  a  weight  on  to  keep  them  under  the 
pickle.  After  three  days,  pour  it  ofi",  boil,  and  turn  it  over 
again  r  let  stand  three  days  again ;  then  take  them  out  and  let 
them  he  one  night  in  plain  cold  water;  next  day  put  them  over 
the  fire,  but  do  not  let  them  boil,  allowing  one  tablespoonful 
alum  to  one  gallon  vinegar ;  mace,  cinnamon,  peppercorns, 
white  and  black  mustard-seed  and  grated  horseradish,  one 
tablespoonful  each  to  every  gallon  vinegar,  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful  turmeric,  and  two  and  one-half  pounds  sugar.  Fold  a 
double  piece  of  linen,  and  a  soft,  thick  brown  paper,  and  tie  the 


II 


SWEET   OUOUMBER   PICKLE — GKEEN   TOMATO  PICKLE.    269 

jars  tight ;  throw  in  the  vinegar  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.     A 
bladder  and  linen  cloth  are  nice  to  be  over  the  pots. — Mrs.  G.  P. 

Sweet  Cugumbbr  Pickle. 
Slice  cucumbers  and  soak  in  brine  a  week ;  then  soak  in  salt 
water  until  the  salt  is  extracted  sufficiently.  BoU  in  strong 
alum  water  half  an  hour,  then  in  ginger  tea  half  an  hour. 
Make  a  syrup  of  one  quart  good  vinegar,  one  pint  water,  three 
pounds  sugar,  to  four  pounds  cucumbers;  season  with  mace, 
cinnamon,  cloves,  and  celery-seed.  Put  in  the  cucumbers  and 
boil  till  the  syrup  is  thick  enough.  Add  some  sliced  ginger. — 
Mrs.  S.  M. 

Cucumber  Sweet  Pickle, 
First  lay  the  cucumbers  in  salt  and  water  for  one  week  or 
ten  days ;  next  cut  them  in  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Then 
soak  out  the  salt  and  boil  them  in  alum  water  half  an  hour,  and 
afterwards  in  ginger  tea  for  one  hour.  Then  make  a  syriip  of 
one  pint  water,  one  quart  vinegar,  three  pounds  sugar  to  every 
four  pounds  cucumbers.  Flavor  with  cloves,  mace,  and  cinna- 
mon.    Boil  all  together  until  the  syrup  is  sufficiently  thickened. 

—Mrs.  A.  G. 

To  Pickle  Ripe  Cucumbers. 

Take   them  yellow,  but  not  too  ripe,  scrape  the  seeds  well 

out ;  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  twenty-four  hours,  then  make 

syrup  same  as  for  peaches  ;  in  a  week  scald  the  vinegar  again. 

—Mrs.  C. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. 

Slice  green  tomatoes  and  onions ;  sprinkle  each  layer  with 
salt ;  let  them  stand  until  next  day,  then  press  all  the  juice  out, 
and  season  very  highly  with  red  and  black  pepper,  celery, 
mxistard  seed,  a  little  turmeric,  and  some  sugar ;  cover  with 
vinegar,  and  cook  until  tender. — Mrs.  M.  D. 

Gkeen  Tomato  Pickle. 
SUce  and  chop  green  tomatoes,  until  you  have  one  gallon 


270         GEEEN   TOMATO   PICKLE — GKEEN   TOMATO   SAUOB. 

Chop  one  dozen  large  onions.  Mix  and  sprinkle  four  large 
spoonfuls  of  salt  upon  them,  let  it  stand  one  night ;  next  day 
drain  off  all  the  water,  and  have  one  quart  strong  vinegar,  two 
pounds  sugar,  spices  and  pepper  to  your  taste.  Put  in  the 
vinegar,  and  put  with  the  tomatoes  in  a  porcelain  kettle  ;  boil 
half  an  hour.  Place  in  the  jar  for  keeping  and  cover  closely. 
Three  or  four  days  afterwards,  boil  again  for  a  few  minutes  and 
put  away  for  use. — Mrs.  L.  P. 

Green  Tomato  Piclde. 

One  peck  tomatoes  sliced. 
One  dozen  onions. 

Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  layby  twenty-four  hours;  then  drain 
them. 

3  pounds  sugar  to  one  gallon  vinegar. 

1-^  ounces  ground  pepper. 

1  ounce  whole  cloves. 

1  ounce  mustard-seed. 

1  ounce  allspice. 

1  cup  mustard,  mixed. 
Put  all  in  a  kettle,  with  vinegar  enough  to  cover ;  boil  till 
tender. — Mrs.  S.  B. 

To  MAKE  Green  Tomato  Sauce. 

16  pounds  tomatoes. 

7  pints  good  cider  vinegar, 

4  pounds  brown  sugar. 

\  pint  celery-seed. 

\  pint  mustard- seed. 

1^  pints  onions,  cut  fine. 

1  teacup  ground  mustard. 
\  ounce  mace. 

2  ounces  cinnamon. 
1  oimce  allspice. 


GKEEN   TOMATO   8AU0B.  271 

^  ounce  cloves. 

^  pound  black  pepper. 

Put  all  of  the  spices  in  the  vinegar,  and  boil  one  hour.     Then 

put  in  the  tomatoes,  which  you  must  slice  the  night  before,  and 

put  one  layer  of  salt  and  one  of  tomatoes.     Drain  the  water  off, 

and  boil  the  tomatoes  in  the  spiced  vinegar  tUl  done. — Mrs. Dr.  S. 

Green  Tomato  Sauce. 
Peel  and  slice  the  tomatoes.     To  two  gallons  add  : 
5  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 
2^  tablespoonfuls  ground  black  pepper. 
2  tablespoonfuls  ground  allspice. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  cloves. 

3  gills  white  mustard-seed. 
1  gill  celery-seed. 

1  gill  salt. 

1  pint  onions,  chopped  fine. 

2  quarts  brown  sugar. 
2  quarts  vinegar. 

Beat  all  the  spices,  except  the  mustard-seed,  and  boil  togethei 
until  thick  as  marmalade. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Green  Tomato  Sauce. 

2  gallons  tomatoes,  sliced. 

3  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

3  gills  of  mustard-seed,  whole. 
2^  tablespoonfuls  pepper. 
1^  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 
3  tablespoonfuls  mustard,  beaten  smooth. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  celery-seed. 
1  pint  onions,  chopped  fine. 
1  quart  sugar. 
1\  quarts  vinegar. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  boil  till  done. — Mrs.  P.  McQ. 


272      sweet  tomato  pickle — kipe  tomato  pickle. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle. 

Peel  small  tomatoes  with  a  sharp  knife;  scald  in  strong 
ginger  tea  until  clear.  To  four  pounds  tomatoes,  two  pounds 
sugar,  not  quite  one  quart  vinegar  ;  cinnamon,  mace,  nutmeg, 
to  taste. 

Scald  the  tomatoes  and  pour  on  boiling  hot. — Mrs.  J.  H.  F. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle. 
Boil  green  tomatoes  in  strong  ginger  tea  for  ten  minutes. 
Then  take  out,  and  to  every  two  pounds  add  one  quart  of  vine- 
gar, one  pound  sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  mace  to  your  taste. 
—3Irs.  F. 

Sweet   Tomato  Pickle. 

Slice  one  gallon  green  tomatoes,  and  put  a  handful  salt  to 
each  layer  of  tomatoes.  Let  them  stand  twelve  hours,  then 
drain  off  the  liquor,  and  add  to  them  two  green  peppers,  and 
from  two  to  four  onions,  sliced ;  take  two  quarts  vinegar,  half  a 
pint  molasses,  two  tablespoonfuls  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  all- 
spice, and  one  of  cloves ;  heat  it  until  it  begins  to  boil,  then 
put  in  tomatoes,  onions,  and  peppers ;  let  them  boil  ten  minutes  : 
pour  into  a  stone  jar,  and  seal  tight.  In  a  fortnight  they  will 
be  ready  for  use. — Mis.  Dr.  P.  G. 

To  MAKE  Piccalilli. 

To  one-half  bushel  nicely  chopped  tomatoes,  which  must  be 
squeezed  dry,  add  two  dozen  onions,  chop]3ed  fine,  one  dozen 
green  peppers,  chopped,  one  box  ground  mustard,  one  large  root 
horseradish,  nearly,  one  pint  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  ground 
cloves,  four  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 

Mix  thoroughly  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover  with  vinegar,  making 
a  hole  in  the  centre  to  let  the  vinegar  to  the  bottom. — Mrs.  £. 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickle. 
Puncture  the  tomato  with  a  thorn  or  straw.     Put  a  layer  of 
tomatoes,  with  onions  cut  up.     Sprinkle  salt  on  them,  then  put 


TOMATO  MARMALADE   OK   SAUCE   FOB  MEATS.  273 

another  layer  of  tomatoes  and  onions,  with  salt  sprinkled  over 
them.  When  you  have  filled  the  jar  or  vessel  with  tomatoes, 
let  them  remain  about  a  week,  then  lay  them  in  dishes  to  drain. 
Give  each  tomato  a  gentle  squeeze,  to  get  the  salt  water  out. 
Put  them  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  strong  vinegar.  Boil  a  small 
quantity  of  vinegar  with  pepper,  horseradish,  and  such  other 
spices  as  you  like,  and  pour  it  over  the  tomatoes.  To  two  gal- 
Ions  of  tomatoes,  use  a  box  of  mustard  dissolved  in  the  vine- 
gar.— Mrs.  C.  0. 

Tomato  Marmalade  or  Sauce  for  Meats. 

Scald  and  peel  fully  ripe  tomatoes,  then  cut  them  up,  if  large. 
To  twelve  pounds  add  six  pounds  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  beaten 
cloves,  one  tablespoonful  spice  and  one  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

Boil  all  in  a  kettle  until  the  syrup  becomes  the  thickness  of 
molasses.  Then  add  one  quart  of  strong  vinegar  and  boil  foi 
ten  minutes.     Put  away  in  quart  jars  — 3frs.  McG. 

Hyden  Salad, 

1  gallon  cabbage. 

^  gallon  green  tomatoes.  • 

\  gallon  onions, — all  chopped  fine 
4  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
2  tablespoonfuls  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mustard. 
1^  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Plenty  of  celery-seed. 

■J  gallon  strong  vinegar. 
Boil  the  whole  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  S.  D. 

Hyden  Salad. 
Cut  one  gallon  cabbage  as  for  slaw,  one-half  gallon  green  toma 
toes.     Cut  up  one  pint  green  pepper,  taking  out  the  seed  care- 


274:  HTDEN    SALAD. 

fully  and  cutting  up  the  pod  (do  not  use  tlie  seed),  one  quart 
onions  cut  up,  and  the  water  pressed  from  them  and  thrown 
away. 

Mix  all  these,  and  sprinkle  through   them  2   tablespoonfuls 
sale,  and  let  them  stand  over  niglit.     Then  take  : 

2  pounds  sugar. 

3  large  spoonfuls  ginger. 

3  large  spoonfuls  turmeric. 

3  spoonfuls  celery-seed. 

3  spooufuls  ground  mustard. 

2  spoonfuls  allspice. 

2  spoonfuls  cinnamon. 

1  spoonful  cloves. 

1  spoonful  mace. 
Beat  all  fine,  and  mix  with   the  salad ;  pour  over  the  whole 
three   quarts  good  vinegar,  and   simmer   for  twenty  minutes. 
Ready  for  use  very  soon,  and  very  good. — Mrs.  C.  M,  A. 

Hyden  Salad. 

«        1  gallon  cabbage,  chopped  fine. 

^  gallon  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine. 
^  pint  green  pepper,  chopped  fine. 
1  pint  onions,  chopped  fine. 
Sprinkle  salt,  and  let  it  stand  overnight ;  next  morning,  pom 
boiling  water  over,  and  squeeze  dry.     Take : 
2  ounces  ginger. 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 
1  ounce  cinnamon. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

2  pounds  sugar. 
2  spoonfuls  salt. 

•J-  gallon  vinegar.     Boil  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  H. 


HYDEN   SALAD.  275 

Hyden  Salad. 
Cut  up  fine,  1  gallon  cabbage. 
^  gallon  green  tomatoes. 
•^  pint  green  pepper. 

1  quart  onions  minced,  the  juice  thrown  away. 
Add  to  all  these  : 

4  tablespoonfuls  gi-ound  mustard. 
2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  cloves. 

2  ounces  of  turmeric. 

1  ounce  celer)'-seed. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 
Mix  all  well  together,  add  one-half  gallon  good  vinegar,  and 
boil  slowly  twenty  minutes.     Take  the  seed  out  of  the  green 
pepper.     Make  late  in  the  summer. — Mrs.  Ji. 

Myden  Salad. 

1  gallon  of  finely  chopped  cabbage. 

1^  gallon  green  tomatoes. 

1  pint  green  peppers — ^  pint  will  do. 

1  quart  onions. 

^  pint  horseradish. 

1  pound  sugar. 
^  gallon  vinegar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
1  tablespoonful  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  celery-seed. 

2  spoonfuls  salt. 

Beat  the  spice  well,  mix  aU  together  well,  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes. 


276  OIL   MANGOES TO   MAKE   OIL   MANGOES. 

Black  peppers  can  be  used  instead  of  the  green,  one  table- 
spoonful  ground. — Mrs.  E.  C  Gr. 

Oil  Mangoes. 

1  pound  race  ginger,  well  soaked,  beaten  and  dried. 

1  pound  horseradish. 

1  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

1  pound  black  mustard-seed. 

2  ounces  ground  mustard. 
2  ounces  black  pepper. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 
2  ounces  cloves. 
^  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

2  pounds  sugar. 

Beat  the  ingredients  together  in  a  mortar,  and  mix  the  mus- 
tard with  as  much  tilive  oil  as  will  make  a  paste.  Then  after 
the  mangoes  have  been  in  brine  two  weeks,  and  greened  as  you 
would  cucumbers,  stuff  them;  if  any  filling  is  left,  sprinkle 
between  the  layers  in  the  jar.  Pour  over  as  much  boiling  vin 
egar  as  will  cover  them. — Mrs.  T.  C. 

To  Make  Oil  Mangoes. 
Put  the  mangoes  in  strong  brine  for  five  days.     Wash  them, 
and  remove  the  seed. 
Stuffing  for  the  same. 

1^  pound  white  mustard-seed. 
\  pound  pounded  ginger. 
^  pound  black  pepper,  pounded. 
4  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed. 
3  ounces  mace. 
Mix  these  ingredients  with  as  little  oil  as  possible,  stuff  the 
mangoes  with  it,  adding  scraped  horseradish  and  one  blade  of 
gallic.    Pour  cold  vinegar  over  them,  and  one  pound  salt.     Press 


GREEN   MANGOES STUFFING   FOB   SIXTY    MANGOES.       277 

the  mangoes  under  the  vinegar,  and  watch  them  closely.     It  is 
well  to  scald  the  vinegar  in  the  spring. — J!/r«.  3.  T. 

To  Green  Mangoes. 
After  taking  them  from  the  brine,  lay  them  in  a  kettle  with 
grape-vine  leaves  between  each  layer  of  mangoes  ;  a  little  alum 
sprinkled  on  each  layer.  Let  them  simmer  all  day,  changing 
the  leaves  if  necessary.  If  not  green  enough,  put  them  on  the 
second  day. — Mrs.  E. 

Mangoes. 
To  a  three-gallon  jar  of  mangoes  prepared  for  the  vinegar, 
take: 

1  teacup  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  allspice. 
\  ounce  ginger. 
^  ounce  mace. 

\  ounce  cloves,  beat  well,  but  not  fine. 
Take  one  head  of  raw  cabbage. 
8  onions. 

2  teacups  of  horseradish. 
1  quart  of  mustard-seed. 

Take  half  the  beaten  spices,  and  mix  with  the  lattei 
ingredients,  also  three  cups  of  brown  sugar ;  besides,  put  one 
teaspoonful  brown  sugar  in  each  mango  before  you  put  in  the 
stufling. 

It  takes  five  pounds  of  sugar  for  a  three-gallon  jar.  The  bal- 
ance of  the  sugar  mix  with  the  spice  and  vinegar  enou§,n  to 
cover  the  pickle. — Mrs.  H.  C. 

Stuffing  for  Sixty  Mangoes. 
1  pound  black  mustard-seed. 

1  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

2  pounds  chopped  onion. 
1  ounce  mace. 


278  PEAOH   IfAKQOBS. 

1  ounce  nutmeg. 

2  handfuls  black  pepper, 

1  ounce  turmeric,  well  mixed  with  cold  water. 

Found  the  mace,  nutmeg,  and  pepper. 

1  cup  sweet  oil. 

^  pound  English  mustard. 

4  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Mix  all  these  well  together,  throwing  in  little  bits  of  mango 
or  cucumbers. 

Peach  Mangoes. 
Pour  boiling  salt  water  over  the  peaches — let  them  stand  two 
days ;  take  them  out  and  slit  them  on  one  side,  and  put  them 
in  turmeric  vinegar  for  two  days.  Extract  the  seed,  stuff  and 
sew  them  up,  and  put  in  the  prepared  vinegar.  Prepare  the« 
stuffing  as  follows  :  chop  some  of  the  peaches  from  the  turmeric 
vinegar,  add  a  lairge  quantity  of  mustard-seed,  celery-seed,  a 
good  deal  of  brown  sugar — one  pound  to  two  and  a  half  pounds 
peaches ;  ground  ginger,  cinnamon,  cloves,  pepper,  turmeric,  and 
any  other  spices,  if  you  like.  Onions  chopped  fine.  Vinegar 
to  be  seasoned  the  same  way ;  and  any  of  the  stuffing  left  may 
be  put  in  the  vinegar. — Mrs.  G.  C. 

J*each  Mangoes. 

Remove  the  stones  from  large  white  Heath  peaches  by  cut- 
ting in  halves.  Stuff  them  with  white  mustard-seed,  a  little 
pounded  mace,  turmeric,  and  celery-seed.  Sew  them  up,  and 
drop  them  in  with  the  yellow  cabbage, — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Peach  Mangoes. 

Pour  boiling  salt  water  over  the  peaches,  let  them  stand  two 
days ;  then  take  them  out,  slit  them  on  the  side,  and  put  them 
in  turmeric  vinegar  for  two  days  or  longer.  Take  them  out, 
extract  the  seed,  stuff  them,  sew  them  up,  and  put  into  the 
prepared  -linegar.     To  prepare  the  stuffing  : 

Chop  up  some  of  *iie  peaches,  add  a  large  quantity  of  white 


PBACH   MANGOES — PEPPER  MANGOES.  27£ 

mustard-seed,  a  good  deal  of  brown  sugar,  some  ground  ginger, 
cinnamon,  cloves,  pepper,  turmeric,  celery-seed,  also  a  great  deal 
of  chopped  onion.  Vinegar,  seasoned  with  same  ingredients. 
Quantity  of  spices  can  be  regulated  by  your  taste. — Miss  S. 

Peach  Mamgoes, 
Take  large  plum  peaches,  sufficient  quantity  to  fill  the  jar. 
Peel  nicely,  and  take  out  the  stones.  Have  ready  the  stuffing 
in  proportion  to  the  peaches.  Mince  fine  some  soft  peaches, 
preserved  orange  peel,  preserved  ginger,  coriander-seed,  celery- 
seed,  a  small  quantity  mace,  cinnamon,  candied  strawberries,  if 
you  have  them,  and  pickled  cherries.  Sew  the  peaches  up,  after 
stuffing  them,  and  fill  the  jar.  Then  to  every  pound  coffee 
sugar  add  one-half  pint  vinegar,  allowing  the  above  quantity 
to  two  pounds  fruit.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  vinegar, 
and  pour  on  the  peaches,  boiling-hot  Repeat  this  for  three 
mornings  ;  the  fourth  morning  put  them  all  on  together,  and  boil 
a  short  time ;  add  a  few  spices,  cinnamon,  and  ginger  to  the 
syrup  when  you  make  it.  They  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few 
weeks. — Mrs.  R. 

Pepper  Mangoes. 
With  a  sharp  knife  take  the  cap  out  of  the  pod,  then  scrape 
out  the  seed.     Lay  the  pods  in  weak  salt  and  water  for  one 
hour. 

Take  hard  cabbage,  chop  ttem  very  fine,  and  to  every  quart  of 
cabbage,  add 

1  tablespoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  pulverized  black  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard-seed. 
1  teaspoonful  ground  mustard. 

Mix  all  this  well  together,  drain  the  peppers,  and  stuff  them 
with  the  mixture,  and  replace  the  cap. 

Pack  them  closeiy  in  a  stone  jar,  with  the  small  end  down- 
wards.    Do  this  until  the  jar  is  filled ;  then  pour  on  them  strong 


280  TO   PICKLE   WALNUTS — WALNUT  PICKLE. 

cold  vinegar.     They  are  ready  for  use  in  three  weeks.     You 
can  use  spices  and  sugar,  if  preferred. — Mrs.  TF!  A.  S. 

To  Pickle  Walnuts. 
After  the  walnuts  have  been  in  brine  six  weeks,  scrape  and 
wipe  them  with  a  coarse  towel.  Put  them  in  plain  vinegai',  and 
let  them  remain  for  a  week  or  two.  Drain  them  well — place  in 
a  jar,  and  pour  over  them  vinegar  spiced  and  prepared  as  for  yel- 
low pickles,  omitting  the  turmeric  and  lemons,  and  using  black 
pepper  instead  of  white. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Walnut  Pickle. 
The  walnuts  must  be  quite  green  and  tender.  First  soak 
them  in  fresh  water,  then  rub  off  with  a  coarse  towel.  The  wal- 
nuts must  be  kept  in  briue  a  week,  and  then  soaked  in  clear 
water  for  several  hours.  Boil  them  in  vinegar  a  little  while — 
this  time  put  water  in  the  vinegar ;  then  put  them  in  good 
strong  vinegar,  a  portion  of  which  must  be  boiled  and  poured 
over  them  four  successive  mornings.  Season  with  cinnamon, 
mace,  cloves^  and  add  two  pounds  sugar  to  one  gallon  vinegar, 
or  in  proportion  to  quantity  of  pickle. — Mrs.  C.  C. 

Walnut  JPickle. 

Gather  the  nuts  about  the  10th  or  20  th  of  June,  when  they 
are  sufficiently  tender  to  be  pierced  with  a  pin ;  pour  boiling 
salt  water  on,  and  let  them  be  covered  with  it  nine  days,  chang- 
ing it  every  third  day.  Put  them  on  dishes  to  air,  until  they 
are  black ;  then  soak  out  the  salt,  and  put  them  in  weak  vinegar 
for  a  day  or  two ;  put  into  the  )ar,  and  pour  on  hot  the  follow- 
ing pickled  vinegar : 

7  ounces  giuger. 

7  ounces  of  garlic. 

7  ounces  of  salt. 

7  ounces  of  horseradish. 

^  ounce  red  pepper. 


I 


WAI.NUT   PICKLE PICKLED    MARTINA8.  281 

^  ounce  of  orange  peel. 

^  ounce  of  mace. 

^  ounce  of  cloves,  all  boiled  in  1  gallon  strong  vinegar. 

1  ounce  black  pepper  also. — ]\Irs.  JT.  H.  F. 

Walnut  FicMe. 
Put  the  walnuts  in  salt  water  for  five  or  six  weeks;  then  in 
fresh  water  for  twenty-four  hours ;  boil  in  weak  vinegar  and 
water  until  soft  enough  to  run  a  straw  through.  Then  rub 
them  with  a  coarse  towel ;  make  a  strong  liquor  of  vinegar, 
horseradish,  garlic,  and  mace  ;  pour  on,  and  leave  them  till  ready 
for  use,  in  two  or  three  weeks. — Mrs.  T. 

To  Pickle  Martinas. 
Take  one  gallon  pot  full  of  martinas.     Make  a  brine  strong 
enough  to  bear  an  egg ;  keep  them  covered  for  ten  days.     Take 
them  out  and  wash  them  in  cold  watei",  then  put  them  in  cold 
vinegar.      Let  them  remain  for  ten  days  ;   drain  them,  and  put 
them  in  the  jar  intended  for  use.     In  half  a  gallon  of  vinegar 
scald  a  large  handful  of  horseradish,  scraped  fine. 
A  cupful  black  pepper. 
1  cupful  ginger. 
\  cupful  black  mustard-seed. 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  beaten  cloves. 
3  onions  sliced  fine. 
1  pod  red  pepper. 
3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Pour  them  over  the  pickle,  and  fill  with  cold  vinegar. — Mrs. 
S.  D. 

Pickled  Martinas. 
Put  three  gallons  of  martinas  in  very  strong  brine,  keep 
covered  for  ten  days,  then  wash  them  in  cold  water,  and  put 
them  in  vinegar  to  stand  ten  more  days ;  then  drain  and  put 
them  in  the  jar  intended  for  them.  In  three  pints  of  vinegar, 
scald : 

24 


282  TO   PICKLE   MAKTINAS — OHOW-CHOW   PIOKLB. 

A  large  handful  of  scraped  horseradish. 

1  cup  allspice. 

^  cup  black  pepper. 

1  cup  of  ginger. 

^  cup  of  black  mustard. 

3  large  spoonfuls  of  cloves,  all  beaten. 

3  onions  sliced. 

1  pod  red  pepper. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 

Pour  it  over  the  martinas,  and  fill  up  with  cold  vinegar. — 

MlesM  T. 

To  Pickle  Maktinas. 

Put  the  martinoi  in  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water,  let 
them  remain  a  weefe  or  ten  days.  Then  wash  them,  and  put 
them  in  cold  vinegar,  to  soak  the  salt  and  greenish  taste  out  of 
them.  When  ready  to  pickle,  lay  them  out  to  drain;  scald 
the  following  ingredients  in  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  and  pour  over 
them  in  a  jar ;  if  not  full,  fill  uj)  with  cold  vinegar, 
1  large  handful  of  sliced  horseradish. 

1  teacup  of  allspice. 

\  cup  of  black  pepper. 

\  cup  of  mustard-seed  (black). 

2  tablespoonfuls  cloves. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

3  or  four  onions,  sliced. 

The  spices  to  be  beaten,  but  not  too  fine.     This  quantity  fills 
a  two-gallon  jar. — Mrs.  JT.  J".  M. 

Chow-Chow  Pickle. 
\  peck  green  tomatoes. 
2  large  cabbages. 
15  onions. 
25  cucumbers. 
1  plate  horseradish. 
\  pound  mustard-seed. 


CHOW-CHOW.  28B 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

2  ounces  ground  pepper. 
2  ounces  turmeric. 

■^  ounce  cinnamon. 
Cut  the  onions,  tomatoes,  cucumbers  and  cabbage  in  small 
pieces ;  pack  tbem  down  overnight  in  salt,  lightly ;  in  the 
moi'ning  pour  off  the  brine,  and  put  them  to  soak  in  weak  vin- 
egar two  days ;  drain  again,  and  mix  the  spices.  Boil  half  a 
gallon  vinegar  and  three  pounds  sugar,  and  pour  over  them  hot. 
Mix  two  boxes  ground  seed. — Mrs.  M.  A. 

Chow-Chow. 
^  peck  onions. 
^  peck  green  tomatoes. 
5  dozen  cucumbers. 
Slice  all  very  fine,  and  put  in  a  few  whole  cucumbers,  one 
pint  small  red  and  green  peppers ;  sprinkle  one  pint  salt  over 
them,  and  let  them  stand  all  night ;  then  add  : 
1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  white  mustard-seed. 
1  ounce  celery-seed. 
1  ounce  turmeric. 

1  ounce  whole  cloves. 

3  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

1  stalk  horseradish,  grated  fine. 
Cover  all  with  one  gallon  and  one  pint  of  strong  vinegar,  and 
boil  thii-ty  minutes. — Miss  E.  T. 

Chow-  Chow. 
^  peck  onions. 
•^  peck  green  tomatoes. 

3  dozen  large  cucumbers. 

4  large  green  peppers. 

^  pint  small  peppers,  red  and  green. 


284  OHOW-CHOW    PICKLE CHOW-CHO"W. 

Sprinkle  one  pint  salt  on,  and  let  them  stand  all  night ;  the 
cucumbers  not  peeled,  but  sliced  one  inch  thick,  the  onions 
also  sliced.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  brine,  and  add  to  the 
pickles : 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  black  pepper. 

1  ounce  white  mustard-seed. 

1  ounce  turmeric. 
^  ounce  cloves. 

^  ounce  celery-seed. 

3  tablespoonfuls  made  mustard. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
With  a  little  horseradish. 

Cover  with  vinegar,  and  boil  till  tender,  a  half-hour  or  more 
When  cold,  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  G.  iV. 

Chow-Chow  Pickle. 

1  gallon  chopped  cabbage. 
4  onions. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
2  pints  strong  vinegar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  allspice. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  celery-seed. 

^  pint  mustard-seed. 

1  tablespoonful  ground  mustard. 
The  cabbage  and  onions  must  stand  in  strong  salt  and  water 
two  hoiirs,  then  place  in  a  brass  kettle,  with  the  vinegar  and 
spices,  and  sugar;  boil  until  syrup  is  formed.      Excellent. — 
3Irs.  J.  H.  F. 

Chow-Chow. 

The  recipe  is  for  one  gallon  pickle ;  for  more,  the  quantities 
must  be  increased,  of  course.     The  ingredients  consist  of: 
\  peck  green  tomatoes. 
1  large  head  of  cabbage. 


LEESBURG   CHOW-CHOW.  285 

6  large  onion's. 

1  dozen  cucumbers. 

^  pint  grated  horseradish 

^  pound  white  mustard-seed. 

^  ounce  celery-seed. 

A  few  small  onions. 

■^  teacup  groimd  pepper. 

Turmeric,  ground  cinnamon. 

A  little  brown  sugar. 
Cut  bhe  cabbage,  onions  and  cucumbers  into  small  pieces,  an  d 
pack  tliem  down  in  salt  one  night ;  then  put  in  vinegar,  poured 
over  hoi.  Do  this  three  mornings.  The  third  morning,  mix 
one  box  ground  mustard  with  one-quarter  pint  salad  oil.  To 
be  mixed  in  while  warm. — Jfrs.  0.  H. 


Leesburg  Chow-Chow. 

^  peck  green  tomatoes. 
2  large  heads  cabbage. 
15  large  white  onions. 
25  cucumbers. 
Cut  these  up,  and  pack  in  salt  for  a  night.     Drain  off,  and 
then  soak  in  vinegar  and  water  for  two   days.     Drain  again. 
Mix  with  tliis,  then  : 

1  pint  grated  horseradish. 
J  pint  small  white  onions. 
■J  pound  white  mustard-seed. 
1  ounce  celery-seed. 
^  teacup  ground  black  pepper. 
•^  teacup  turmeric. 
^  teacup  cinnamon. 
Pour  over  one  and  a  half  gallons  boiling  hot  vinegar.     Boil 
this  vinegar  for  three  mornings ;  the  third  morning,  mix  with 
two  boxes  mustard,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  and  half-pint 
sweet  oil. — Mrs.  J.  B.  D. 


286         sweet  pickle  peaches piokled  pbauhe8. 

Sweet  Pickle  Peaches. 
Powder  cloves,  mace,  and  allspice,  and  mix  well  together 
To  every  pound  fruit  add  one-quarter  pound  sugar,  one  gill 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  the  mixed  spices.  Boil  all  together, 
and  when  the  fruit  is  done,  take  from  the  syrup,  and  lay  on  dish- 
es. Let  the  syrup  cook  thoroughly.  Put  the  fruit  in  jars,  and 
pour  on  the  syrup.     Cover  when  cool. — Mrs.  D.  R. 

To  Pickle  Peaches. 
1  pound  peaches. 
\  pound  sugar. 
1  pint  vinegar. 

Mace,  cloves,  cinnamon ;  boil  the  ingredients  every  day,  for 
six  days,  and  pour  over  the  peaches. — Mrs.  F.  D.  G-. 

Spiced  Peaches. 

Take  nine  pounds  ripe  peaches,  rub  them  with  a  coarse  towel, 
and  halve  them.  Put  four  pounds  sugar  and  one  pint  good 
vinegar  in  the  kettle  with  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  mace.  When 
the  syrup  is  formed,  throw  in  the  peaches  a  few  at  a  time ; 
when  clear,  take  them  out  and  put  in  more.  Boil  the  syrup 
till  quite  rich ;  pour  it  over  the  peaches. 

Cherries  can  be  pickled  in  the  same  way. — 31rs.  G.  C. 

Peaches  to  Pickle. 

Make  a  syrup   with   one  quart    vinegar   and  three   pounds 

sugar ;  peel  the  peaches  and  put  them  in  the  vinegar,  and  let 

boil  vei-y  little.     Take  out   the   fruit,  and  let  the  vinegar  boil 

half  an  hour,    adding  cinnamon,  cloves,  and    allspice. — Mrs. 

A.H. 

Pickled  Peaches. 

Take  peaches  pretty  ripe,  but  not  mellow ;  wipe  with  flannel  as 
smooth  as  possible  ;  stick  a  few  cloves  in  each  one.  One  pound 
sugar  to  one  pint  vinegar.  Allow  three  pounds  sugar  and  three 
pints  vinegar  to  one  pan  peaches.     Scald  the  vinegar,  then  put 


J 


PIOKLED   PEACHES — CANTALOUPE   PICKLE,  287 

on  the  peaches  ;  boil  till  nearly  soft,  then  take  out  and  boil  the 
vinegar  a  little  longer,  and  pour  over  the  fruit. — Mrs.   G.  F. 

Pickled  JPeaches. 
Put  the  peaches  in  strong  brine,  and  let  them  remain  three  or 
four  days ;  take  them  out,  and  wipe  them  dry ;  put  them  in  a 
pot  with  allspice,  pepper,  ginger,  and  horseradish ;  boil  some 
turmeric  in  your  vinegar.     Pour  it  on  hot. — Miss  E.  T. 

Peach,  Peak,  Quince  and  Apple  Pickle. 

1  pound  fruit. 

\  pound  sugar 

\  pint  vinegar. 

Dissolve  sugar  and  vinegar  together ;  put  a  small  quantity  of 

fruit ;  boil  until  you  can  stick  a  straw  through  it.    Season  with 

cinnamon  and   mace.     Rescald  the  vinegar,  and  pour  over  tb^ 

fruit  for  nine  mornings. — Mrs.  Dr.  <T. 

Sweet  Pickle.     {Honolulu  Melon.) 
4  pints  vinegar,  very  clear. 
4  pints  sugar 
1  ounce  cloves. 
1  ounce  cinnamon. 
Put  all  to  boil,  then  drop  in  the  melons,  as  much  as  the  vinegar 
will  cover,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.     Put  them  in  jars,  and  every 
day,  for  two  or  three  days,  pour  off  the  vinegar,  boil  it  over,  and 
pour  on  the  pickles  until  they  seem  done. — Mrs.  M.  W.  T. 

Cantaloupe  Pickle. 
Cut  up  ripe  melons  into  small  square  pieces,  peel  and  scrape 
out  the  soft  pulp  and  seeds,  soak  one  night  in  alum  water,  and 
then  boil  in  strong  ginger  tea.  Then  to  each  pound  of  fruit  add 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  loaf  sugar,  mace,  cinnamon,  and  white 
ginger  to  the  taste,  and  cover  with  best  cider  vinegar.  Boil 
till  it  can  be  pierced  with  a  straw,  then  set  aside,  and  the  next 


288      CANTALOUPE  PIOKLE SWEET  WATERMELON  PICKLE. 

day  pour  off,  and  boil  tlie  syrup  until  it  thickens  a  little,  and 
return  to  the  fruit  boiling-hot. — Mrs.  F.  F.  F. 

Cantaloupe  PicTde. 

Pare  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  cover  with  vinegar ;  pour  off 
and  measure,  and  to  each  pint  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
brown  sugar  •  cloves  and  mace  to  your  taste. 

Boil  the  syrup,  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  until  clear ;  then  take 
out  the  fruit,  boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  pour  it  on  the 
pickles,  hot.     When  cold,  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  E.  I, 

Cantaloujye  Pickle. 
Take  four  or  five  cantaloupes,  quarter,  and  cover  with  vinegar ; 
to  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  measure  off  the  vinegar, 
leaving  out  one  quart.  To  each  quart,  add  three  pounds  brown 
sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  mace  to  the  taste.  Place  the 
spiced  vinegar  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  boiled  awhile,  drop 
in  the  fruit,  cooking  it  thirty  or  forty  minutes. — Mrs.  R.  P. 

Ripe  Muskmelon  Pickles. 

Take  hard  melons,  after  they  are  sufiiciently  ripe  to  be  well 
flavored.  Slice  them  lengthwise,  scrape  out  the  seed,  and  lay 
the  melon  in  salt  over  night ;  wash  and  wipe  dry,  put  them  in 
alum  water  one  hour,  wash  and  wipe  them  again ;  cut  them  in 
slices  and  pack  in  jars.  Pour  over  them  a  syrup  of  vinegar 
seasoned  with  cinnamon  and  cloves ;  put  three  or  four  pounds  of 
sugar  to  one  gallon  vinegar,  and  boil  until  it  is  right  thick. — 
Mrs.  A.  a 

Sweet  Watermelon  Pickle. 

Trim  the  rinds  nicely,  being  careful  to  cut  off  the  hard  coat- 
ing with  the  outer  green.  Weigh  ten  pounds  rind  and  throw 
it  in  a  kettle,  and  coVer  with  soft  water ;  let  this  boil  gently  foi 
half  an  hour,  take  it  off  and  lay  it  on  dishes  to  drain.  Next 
morning  put  one  quar*^  vinegar,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  one 


I 


WATERMELON   PICKLE PICKLED    PLUMS.  289 

ounce  cinnamon,  one  ounce  mace,  the  white  of  one  egg  vrell 
beaten  and  thrown  on  top  of  the  liquid  (to  clear  it  as  you  would 
jelly),  three  teaspoonfuls  turmeric,  all  together  in  a  kettle,  and 
boil  for  a  few  minutes ;  skim  off  what  rises  as  scum  with  the 
egg.  Throw  in  the  rind,  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  The 
peel  of  two  fresh  lemons  will  give  a  nice  flavor,  though  not  at 
all  necessary. — Mrs.  L.  W.  C. 

Watermelon  Pickle. 
4  pounds  watermelon  rind. 
2  pounds  sugar. 
1  pint  vinegar. 

Mace,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  ginger  to  the  taste. 
Peel  the  rind  and  cut  in  pieces ;  boil  in  ginger  tea  till  clear, 
then   throw  in  cold  water  overnight.     Next  morning  make  a 
syruj)  and  preserve  the  rind ;  just  before  taking  off"  the  fire, 
pour  in  the  vinegar. — Mrs.  A.  T. 

Watermelon  Rind  Pickle. 
Ten  pounds  melon,  boil  in  water  until  tender.  Drain  the 
water  off.  Make  a  syrup  of  two  pounds  sugar,  one  quart 
vinegar,  one-half  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  cinnamon;  boil  all 
this  and  pour  over  rind  boiling-hot ;  drain  off  the  syrup  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil ;  then  pour  it  over  the  melons. — Mrs.  G.  6'. 
McP. 

Pickle  op  Watermelon  Rind. 

Cut  in  pieces  and  soak  the  rind  in  weak  salt  and  water  for 
twenty-four  hours — of  course  having  first  peeled  off  the  out- 
side. To  seven  pounds  rind  put  three  pounds  sugar  ;  scald 
well  in  ginger  tea,  and  make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  vinegar, 
enough  to  cover  the  rind.  Season  the  syrup  with  mace  and 
ginger,  and  boil  the  rind  in  it  till  tender.  A  delicious  pickle. — 
Mrs.  Dr.  P.  C. 

Pickled  Plums.  • 

7  poxmds  sweet  blue  plums. 
4  pounds  brown  sugar. 
25 


290  TO   PIOKLB   DAMSONS — GERMAN   PICKLE. 

2  ounces  stick  cinnamon. 

2  ounces  whole  cloves. 

1  quart  vinegar. 
Put  a  layer  of  jilums  and  apice  alternately  ;  scald  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  togetlier ;  pour  it  on  the  plums ;  repeat  for  two  or 
three  days,  the  last  time  scalding  plums  and  syrup  together. — 
Mrs.  W. 

To  Pickle  Damsons. 

Take  seven  pounds  damsons,  wash  and  wipe  them  dry,  three 
pounds  sugar,  one-half  ounce  cinnamon,  half-ounce  mace,  half- 
ounce  cloves,  half-ounce  allspice. 

With  one  quart  strong  vinegar  and  the  sugar  make  a  syrup, 
and  pour  it  over  the  fruit  boiling-hot.  Let  it  stand  twenty- 
four-  hours  ;  repeat  the  boiling  next  day,  and  let  it  remain  twen- 
ty-four hours  longer  ;  then  put  all  on  the  fire  together  and  cook 
till  the  fruit  is  done. — Misa  D.  D. 

Sweet  Pickle. 

Boil  in  three  quarts  of  vinegar  four  or  five  jiounds  sugar,  one 
ounce  cinnamon,  one  ounce  allspice,  one  ounce  mace,  one-half 
ounce  cloves,  and  pour  all  over  fourteen  pounds  damsons  or 
peeled  peaches. — Mrs.   0.  JB. 

German  Pickle. 

^  pound  white  sugar. 

1  pound  damsons. 

1  pint  vinegar. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

A  few  sticks  of  cinnamon. 
Make  a  syrup  with  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices,  then  drop  in  a 
few  of  th*  damsons  at  a  time.     Scald  them  until  the  skins  crack, 
laying  each  quantity  in  a  dish   till  all  are  done.     Fill  the  jars 
three-fourths  full,  and  pour  in  the  syrup. — Mrs.  R.  L.  P. 


composition  pickle — ragoftt  pioklb.  291 

Damson  Pickle. 

7  pounds  fruit. 

1  ounce  cinnamon. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 

3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Spices  to  be  beaten  fine  ;  put  them  in  the  jar,  sprinkling  the 
spice  through  in  layers.     Boil  one  quart  vinegar  with  the  sugar, 
and  pour  over  the  fruit  and  spices.     Repeat  the  scalding  of  the 
vinegar  for  four  days. — Mrs.  C.  JS'. 

CoMPOsiTtoN  Pickle. 

1  gallon  chopped  cabbage, 
•^  gallon  green  tomatoes,  sliced, 
^  gallon  cucumbers, 
1  quart  onions, 
all  finely  chopped.     Let  them   stew  several   hours,  then  drair 
off  the  water.     Add  : 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 
2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

2  ounces  turmeric. 

2  ounces  celery  seed. 

2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

2  spoonfuls  salt. 

f  gallon  strong  vinegar ;  boil  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  C, 

Ragout  Pickle. 

2  gallons  chopped  cabbage. 

2  gallons  green  or  ripe  tomatoes. 
5  tablespoons  of  mustard,  ground. 

3  gills  mustard-seed. 

2  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 


292  KENTUOKT   PIOKLE — FRENCH   PIOKLS. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cloves. 
1  gill  salt. 

1  pint  chopped  onions. 
1  pound  brown  sugar. 
Some  chopped  celery,  or  celery-seed. 

3  quarts  good  cider  vinegar. 

Boil  all  well  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. — Miss  E.  T. 

Kentucky  Pickle. 

Take  green  tomatoes,  cabbage,  and  onions,  about  equal  quan- 
tities— grind  them  in  a  sausage  machine.  Salt,  and  put  the 
mixture  in  a  bag,  and  let  it  hang  all  night  or  until  the  juice  has 
run  from  it — then  season  with  red  and  black  pepper,  mustard- 
seed,  celery-seed,  cloves,  sugar. 

Pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with  strong  cold  vinegar. — Mrs.  M.  D. 

Fkench  Pickles. 
1  peck  green  tomatoes. 
\  peck  onions. 

^  pound  white  mustard-seed. 
1  ounce  allspice. 
1  ounce  cloves. 

1  bottle  mixed  mustard. 

2  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 
1  tablespoonful  cayenne. 

1  ounce  celery-seed. 
1  pound  brown  sugar. 
Slice  the  tomatoes  and  lay  them  in  salt  for  twelve  hours  ;  pour 
off  the  brine. 

Slice  the  onions,  and  put  a  layer  of  onions,  tomatoes,  spices 
and  sugar  into  a  bell-metal  kettle,  until  the  ingredients  are 
all  in.     Pour  in   vinegar  until  well   covered,  and  boil  for  one 

hour. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

French  Pickle. 

1  gallon  cabbage. 

^  gallon  green  tomatoes. 


SPANISH   PIOKLE — ONION   PICKLE.  293 

1  quart  onions. 

6  pods  green  pepper,  without  the  seed. 

3  tablesjioonfuls  ground  mustard,  or  seed. 

1  tablesjioouful  giugor. 

1  tablespoouful  horseradish. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  cloves. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  celery. 
^  pound  sugar. 
■|-  gallon  vinegar. 
Chop  up  cabbage,  tomatoes,  onions,  and  pepper  ;  sprinkle  salt 
over  it,  and  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  so,  and  pour  off  the  liquor. 
Add  spices  and  vinegar,  boil  all  together  until  you  can  stick  a 
straw  through  the  cabbage  and  tomatoes.     This,  as  you'see,  will 
only  make   a    small   quantity    when  boiled  down.— J\f7'S.    M. 
McN. 

Spanish  Pickle. 
4  dozen  large  cucumbers. 
4  large  green  peppers. 
'  \  peck  onions. 

\  peck  green  tomatoes. 
Slice  the  whole,  and  sprinkle  over  with  one  pint  salt,  allow 
them  to  remain  over  night,  then  drain  them.  Put  the  whole 
into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  aid  the  following  ingredients : 
sliced  horseradish  according  to  your  judgment,  one  ounce  mace, 
one  ounce  white  pepper,  one  ounce  turmeric,  one  ounce  white 
mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce  cloves,  half  an  ounce  celery-seed, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  mustard,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
brown  sugar.  Cover  the  whole  with  vinegar,  and  boil  it  one 
hour. — Mrs.  J".  J".  M. 

Onion  Pickle. 
Peel  and  scald  the  onions  in  strong  salt  water  twenty-five  or 
thirty  minutes ;  take  them  out  and  lay  on  dishes  in  the  sun,  a 


294  PICKLED   ONIONS ^APPLE   PICKLE. 

day  or  two,  then  put  them  in  vinegar  prepared  as  for  cabbage 
pickle. — Mrs.  Dr.  J'. 

Pickled  Onions. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  the  onions  and  let  them  stand  until 
the  brine  gets  cooled ;  then  change  the  brine  for  nine  mornings, 
warming  it  every  day.  The  ninth  day  put  them  in  fresh  water, 
and  let  them  soak  one  day  and  night.  Then  put  the  spices  and 
vinegar  on  the  fire,  and  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  drop  in  the 
onions  in  a  few  minutes  ;  add  sugar  to  your  taste. — Mrs.  A.  H. 

Lemon  Pickle. 
Kasp  the  lemons  a  little  and  nick  them  at  one  end  ;  lay  them 
in  a  dish  with  very  dry  salt,  let  them  be  near  the  fire,  and 
covered..  They  must  stand  seven  or  eight  days,  then  put  in 
fresh  salt,  and  remain  the  same  time  ;  then  wash  them  well,  and 
pour  on  boiling  vinegar,  grated  nutmeg,  mace,  and  whole  pep- 
per. Whenever  the  salt  becomes  damp,  it  must  be  taken  out 
and  dried.  The  lemons  will  not  be  tender  for  nearly  a  year. 
The  time  to  pickle  them  is  about  February. — Mrs.  A. 

Pickling  Fifty  Lemons. 
Grate  oflf  the  yellow  rind,  cut  ofi"  the  end,  and  pack  in  salt  for 
eight  days.  Set  them  in  a  hot  oven,  in  dishes ;  turning  until  the 
salt  candies  on  them.  Place  them  in  a  pot  and  pour  on  two 
gallons  vinegar  (boiling)  to  which  has  been  added  two  pounds 
white  mustard-seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  mace,  one  pound  ginger, 
four  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed,  one  pound  black  pepper,  two 
pounds  sugar,  one  handful  horsei-adish  scraped. 

All   the  spices,  except  mustard-seed,  must  be  pulverized. — 
Mrs.  H.  P.   C. 

Apple  Pickle. 
3  pounds  apples. 
2  pounds  sugar. 
1  pint  vinegar. 


CHEEKY    riOKLE TOMATO    CATSUP.  296 

1  teaspoonful  mace. 

1  tablespoonful  beaten  cinnamon. 

1  dozen  cloves. 

2  teaspoonfuls  allspice. 

1  tablespoonful  beaten  ginger. 
1  tablespoonful  celery-seed. 
Boil  until  the  apples  are  perfectly  clear. — Mrs.  J.  A.  H. 

Cherry  Pickle. 

Pick  firm,  ripe,  short-stem  cherries,  and  lay  them  in  a  stone 
jar,  with  the  stems  on.  Put  into  a  kettle  vinegar,  sweetened 
to  your  taste,  allspice,  mace,  cloves,  and  cinnamon. 

Put  on  the  fire  until  it  is  scalding  hot,  then  pour  over  the 
cherries,  and  let  them  stand  until  next  day,  when  the  vinegar 
must  be  poured  off  them  into  the  kettle  again,  and  scalded  as 
before,  and  poured  on  the  cherries.  Repeat  this  for  nine  morn- 
ings, and  your  pickle  is  ready  for  use. — Mrs.  C. 

Pickled  Blackberries. 
One  pound  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  powdered 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one 
teaspoonful  nutmeg.  Boil  all  together,  gently,  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  four  quarts  blackberries,  and  scald  (but  not  boil)  ten 
minutes  raoi'e.  The  spices  can  be  omitted,  if  preferred. — 
Mrs.  W. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Take  sound,  ripe  tomatoes,  grate  them  on  a  coarse  grater,  then 
strain  through  a  wire  sieve,  throwing  away  the  skins  and  seed. 
Th&n  put  the  liquid  in  a  cotton  bag  and  let  it  drip  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Take  the  residuum  and  thin  to  the  proper  consis- 
tency with  vinegar.  Then  season  it  to  your  taste  with  garlic, 
salt,  pepper,  and  spices. — Mrs.  A.  A. 

Tomato  Catsup. 
One-half  bushel  tomatoes  stewed  sufiiciently  to  be  strained 


296  COLD   TOMATO   CATSUP — TOMATO   CATSUP. 

through  a  colander ;  to  every  gallon  of  pulp  add  three  quart* 
strong  vinegar,  two  tablespooufuls  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls 
grated  horseradish,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  three  large  onions 
chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  black  pepper.  Boil  till,  quite 
thick.— Mrs.  C.  B. 

Cold  Tomato  Catsup. 

4^  peck  ripe  tomatoes. 

^  gallon  vinegar. 

1  teacup  salt. 

1  teacup  mustard,  ground  fine. 

4  pods  red  pepper. 

3  tablespoonfuls  black  pepper. 

A  handful  celery-seed. 

1  cup  horseradish. 
All  of  the  ingredients  must  be  cut  fine,  and  mixed  cold.     Put 
in  bottles,  cork,  and  seal  tight.     It  is  better  kept  awhile. — 
Mrs.  F. 

Tomato    Catsup. 
1  gallon  pulp  of  tomatoes. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  black  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish. 
2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

|-  gallon  vinegar. 
Boil  all  well  together,  then  add  three  pounds  sugar,  and  boil 
awhile.— Jlfrs.  M.  S.  C 

Tomato   Catsup. 

Put  into  a  preserving  kettle  about  one  pint  water,  fill  up  the 

kettle  with  ripe  red  tomatoes,  previously  washed  and  picked, 

with  the  skins  on,  cover  closely,  and  set  on  a  hot  fire ;  frequentlji 

stirring  that  they  may  not  stick  to  the  bottom.     Boil  about  ono 


'     OUOUMBEE   CATSUP.  297 

hour.  Turn  into  a  wooden  tray ;  when  cool  enough,  rub  through 
a  coarse  sieve,  through  wliich  neither  skin  nor  seed  can  pass. 
Measure  five  quarts  of  this  pulp,  and  boil  until  very  thick,  then 
add  two  tablespooufuls  horseradish,  two  tablespoonfuls  white 
mustard-seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  celery-seed,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls black  pepper  beaten  fine,  two  or  three  races  of  ginger 
beaten  fine,  three  or  four  onions  chopped  fine,  a  little  garlic, 
one  nutmeg,  salt  and  sugar  to  the  taste. 

Stii"  all  in,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  in  one  quart 
strong  cider  vinegar.  Let  it  boil  up  once  more,  and  take  off  the 
fire.     Bottle,  cork,  and  seal. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cucumber  Catst  p. 
Pare  and  grate  the  cucumbers.     To  one  quart  of  cucumbers 
add  three  large  onions  grated,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  pe2:)per,  and  as  mu|Bt  vinegar  as  cucumbers.     Exclude 
the  air. — Mrs.  L.  P. 

Cucumber  Catsup. 

Grate  three  cucumbers ;  one  onion,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one 
tablespoonful  black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  pounded  celery-seed. 

Put  the  catsup  in  bottles,  with  large  mouths ;  as  the  cucum- 
ber settles,  and  is  hard  to  get  out. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cucumber  Catsup. 
Chop  three  dozen  large  cucumbers  and  eight  white  onions, 
fine  as  possible,  or  grate  them.  Sprinkle  over  them  three- 
fourths  of  a  pint  of  salt,  one-half  teacup  ground  pepper  ;  before 
seasoning,  drain  off  all  the  water  through  a  sieve ;  mix  well 
with  good  vinegar,  and  bottle. — Mrs.  P.   W. 

Cucumber  Catsup. 

One  dozen  cucumbers,  four  large  onions,  four  tablespoonfuls 
salt,  four  teaspoonfuls  black  pepper,  one  quart  strong  vinegar. 
Grate  onions  and  cucumbers. — Mrs.  S.  D. 


298    walnut  catsup — to  make  catsup  -from  leaves. 

Walnut  Catsup. 

To  one  gallon  vinegar  : 

Add  100  walnuts  pounded. 

2  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

A  handful  horseradish. 

1  cup  mustard-seed,  bruised. 

1  pint  eschalots,  cut  fine. 

^  pint  garlic. 

^  pound  allspice. 

^  pound  black  pepper. 

A  tablespoonful  ginger. 

If  you  Kke,  you  can  add  cloves,  mace,  sliced  ginger,  and  sliced 

-nutmeg.     Put  all  these  in  a  jug,  cork  tightly,  shake  well,  and 

set  it  out  in  the  sun  for  five  or  six  days,  remembering  to  shake 

it  well  each  day.     Then  boil  it  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  when 

nearly  cool,  strain,  bottle,  and.  seal  the  bottles. — Mrs.  A.  G. 

Walnut  Catsup. 
Take  forty  black  walnuts  that  you  can  stick  a  pin  through ; 
mash  and  put  them  in  a  gallon  of  vinegar,  boil  it  down  to  three 
quarts  and  strain  it.  Then  add  a  few  cloves  of  garlic  or  onion, 
with  any  kind  of  spice  you  like,  and  salt.  When  cool,  bottle 
it.     Have  good  corks. — 3Iiss  E.   T. 

To  make  Catsup  of  Walnuts. 
Bruise  the  walnuts  (when  large  enough  to  pickle)  in  a  mor- 
tar ;  strain  off  the  liquor  and  let  it  stand  till  it  be  clear  ;  to  every 
quart  thus  cleared  add  one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ounce  black 
pepper,  one  ounce  ginger  bruised  fine.  Boil  the  whole  about 
half  an  hour ;  then  add  one  pint  best  vinegar,  one  ounce  salt, 
eight  eschalots,  or  one  ounce  horseradish.  Let  it  stand  to  cool ; 
then  sti-ain  it  again,  and  bottle  for  use. — Mrs.  M.  P. 

To  make   Walnut   Catsup  from  the  Leaves. 
Provide  a  jar  that  will  hold  about  three  gallons.     Mix  the 
following  ingredients  :  common  salt  one  pound,  one-half  ounce 


BAY    8AU0E  — MUSHKOOM   CATSUP.  299 

powdered  cloves,  four  ounces  powdered  ginger,  one  handful  gar 
lie  sliced,  six  pods  bruised  red  pepper,  three  handfuls  horse- 
radish i-oot,  sliced.  Gather  the  young  leaves  from  the  walnut — 
cut  them  small.  Put  a  layer  at  the  bottom  of  the  jar;  then 
sprinkle  on  some  of  the  ingredients,  and  so  on  with  alternate 
layers,  until  the  jar  is  packed  full.  Let  the  whole  remain  in 
this  state  one  night.  Then  fill  with  boiling  vinegar,  tie  it  closely, 
and  let  it  set  in  the  sun  for  a  fortnight.  Then  press  out  the 
U  "iuor,  strain  and  bottle. — 3Irs.  E.    W. 

JBay  Sauce. 

Get  young  walnut  leaves  while  tender.  Make  a  mixture  of 
the  following  ingredients :  one  quart  salt,  one  handful  horse- 
radish, one-half  dozen  onions  chopped  up,  two  teaspoonfuls  all- 
spice, one  tablespoonful  black  ground  pepper. 

Put  in  a  layer  of  the  leaves,  and  then  one  of  the  mixture,  so 
on  till  the  jar  is  nearly  filled  ;  cover  with  good  cold  vinegar. 
Put  it  in  the  sun  for  a  fortnight,  then  bottle.  It  will  not  be 
good  for  use  until  it  is  six  months  old. 

This  is  an  excellent  sauce  for  fish.  It  will  improve  it  to  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger. — Mrs.  E.  C.   G. 

JBay  Sauce. 

One  pound  salt,  one-half  ounce  cloves,  four  ounces  ginger,  all 
powdered ;  three  handfuls  garlic,  three  handfuls  horseradish 
scraped  fine,  six  pods  of  red  pepper  cut  uj)  fine.  Gather  leaves 
of  black  walnut  when  young,  cut  them  up  fine  ;  put  a  layer  of 
leaves  irt  the  bottom  of  a  jar,  then  one  of  ingredients  (mixed 
together),  until  the  jar  is  filled ;  tie  it  up  closely  and  set  it  in 
the  sun  for  two  weeks  ;  then  bottle  for  use.  It  is  not  good  for 
six  months.  Some  think  two  or  three  large  onions  an  addi- 
tion.—JIfrs.  H.  D. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

Take  the  largest  mushrooms,  cut  off  the  roots,  put  them  in  a 
stone  jar,  with  salt;  mash  them  and  cover  the  jar.     Let  them 


300  MU8HK00M   SAUCE — MUSHROOM   CATSUP. 

stand  two  days,  stii-ring  them  several  times  a  day ;  then  strain 
and  boil  the  liquor,  to  every  quart  of  which  put  one  teaspoonful 
whole  pepper,  cloves,  mustax-d-seed,  a  little  ginger;  when  cold 
bottle  it,  leaving  room  in  each  bottle  for  one  teacupful  strong 
vinegar,  and  one  tablespoonful  brandy. 
Cork  and  seal. — Mrs.  C. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

After  peeling,  lay  them  on  the  oyster  broiler  and  sprinkle 
with  a  little  salt.  Have  ready  a  hot  dish  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  and  cream,  and  throw  the  mushrooms  into  this  as  they  are 
taken  from  the  broiler.  A  very  nice  sauce  for  steaks. — Mrs. 
J.  S. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

Break  one  peck  large  mushrooms  into  a  deep  earthen  pan. 
Strew  three-quarters  pound  salt  among  them,  and  set  them  one 
night  in  a  cool  oven,  with  a  fold  of  cloth  or  paper  over  them. 
Next  day  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  to  each  quart  add  one  ounce 
black  pepper,  one-quarter  ounce  allspice,  one-half  ounce  ginger, 
two  large  blades  mace. 

Boil  quickly  twenty  minutes.  When  perfectly  cold,  put  into 
bottles,  and  cork  well,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place, — Mr.  J.  £.  H. 

Mushroom  Catsup. 

Pack  the  mushrooms  in  layers,  with  salt,  in  a  jar ;  let  them 
stand  three  hours,  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  return  them 
to  the  jar  and  let  them  remain  three  or  four  days,  stirring  them 
occasionally. 

For  every  quart  of  the  liquor  add,  one  ounce  of  pepper,  hali 
ounce  allspice ;  set  the  jar  in  the  kettle  of  water,  and  boil  four 
hours,  then  pour  the  liquor  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  boil  until 
it  is  reduced  one-half. 

Let  it  cool  and   bottle. — Mrs.  C.  C. 


horseradish  8au0e — pepper  sauoe.  301 

Horseradish  Sauce. 
Five  tablespoonfuls  scraped  or  grated  horseradish,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  half  teaspoonful  pepper, 
one  tablespoonful  mixed  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar, 
four  tablespoonfuls  rich  sweet  cream.  Must  be  prepared  just 
before  using. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Horseradish  Sauce. 
Just  before  dinner,  scrape  one  teacup  of  horseradish,  add  one 
teaspoonful  white  sugar,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  and  pour  over 
two  tablespoonfuls  good  cider  vinegar.     It  is  best  when  just 
made. 

Celery  Vinegar. 

Pound  a  gill  of  celery-seed,  put  in  a  bottle  and  fill  with  strong 
vinegar.  Shake  it  every  day  for  two  weeks,  then  strain  it,  and 
keep  it  for  use.  It  will  flavor  very  pleasantly  with  celery. — 
Mrs.  Dr.  J. 

Celery  Vinegar. 

Take  two  gills  celery -seed,  pound  and  put  it  in  a  celery  bot- 
tle, and  fill  it  with  sharp  vinegar.  Shake  it  every  day  for  two 
weeks  ;  then  strain  it,  and  keep  it  for  use.  It  will  impart  an 
agreeable  flavor  to  everything  in  which  celery  is  used.  Mint 
and  thyme  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  using  vinegar  or 
brandy.  The  herbs  should  not  remain  in  the  liquid  more  than 
twenty-four  hours.  They  should  be  placed  in  ajar — a  handful 
is  enough,  and  the  vinegar  or  brandy  poured  over  them ;  take 
out  the  herbs  next  day,  and  put  in  fresh.  Do  this  for  three 
days;  then  strain,  cork,  and  seal. — Mrs.  K. 

Pepper  Sauce. 
2  dozen  peppers. 
Twice  this  quantity  of  cabbage. 
1  root  of  horseradish,  cut  up  fine. 
1  tablespoonful  mustard-seed. 
1  dessertspoonful  cloves. 


302  PEPPER   SACCK — TAKTAN   SAUCE. 

2  tablesponfuls  sugar. 
A  little  mace. 
Boil  the  spices  and  sugar  in  two  quarts  of  best  cider  vinegar, 
and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  cabbage  and  pepper. — Mrs.  W. 
A.  S. 

Pepper  Vinegar. 
One  dozen  pods  red  pepper,  fully  ripe.     Take  out  stems  and 
cut  them  in  two.     Add  three  pints  vinegar.     Boil  down  to  one 
quait;  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  bottle  for  use. — Mrs.  Dr.  J". 

Red  Pepper  Catsup. 
To  four  dozen  fine  ripe  bell-peppei'S  add  two  quarts  good 
vinegar,  one  quart  water,  three  tablespoonfuls  grated  horserad- 
ish, five  onions  chopped  fine.  Boil  till  soft,  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Then  seasan  to  your  taste  with  salt,  spice,  black  and 
white  mustard  well  beaten  ;  after  which  boil  ten  minutes.  Add 
celery-seed  if  liked,  and  a  pod  or  more  strong  pepper,  a  little 
sugar.  All  should  be  cut  up  and  the  seed  boiled  with  it.  •  Bot- 
tle and  cork  tightly. — Mrs.  Q.  JV. 

Caper  Sauce. 
Stir  in  melted  butter  two  large  tablespoonfuls  capei'S,  a  little 
vinegar.     Nasturtiums  pickled,  or  cucumbers  cut  very  fine  will 
be  good  substitutes  for  the  capers.     For  boiled  mutton. — Mrs. 
R. 

Caper  Sauce. 

To  one  cup  drawn  butter  add  three  tablespoonfuls  green 
pickled  capers.  If  prepared  for  boiled  mutton,  use  half  teacup- 
ful  of  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  ;  add  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper.     Let  it  boil  up  once  and  serve. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Tartan  Sauce. 
One  mustardspoon  of  mixed  mustard,  salt  and  cayenne  to  the 
taste,    the  latter  highly. 


morgan's   TAJBTAN    sauce — TO   MIX   MUSTARD.  303 

Yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  sweet- oil  added  very  slowly,  until  the 
quantity  is  made  that  is  desired  ;  thin  with  a  little  vinegar. 

Take  two  small  cucumber  pickles,  two  full  teaspoonfuls  capers, 
three  small  sprigs  parsley,  and  one  small  shaleot  or  leek.  Chop 
all  fine,  and  stir  into  the  sauce  about  an  hour  before  serving. 
If  very  thick,  add  a  tablespoonful  cold  water.  This  quantity 
will  serve  eight  persons — is  good  with  trout,  veal  cutlets,  and 
oysters. — Miss  E.  S. 

Morcan's  Tartan  Sauce. 

Put  into  a  bowl  one  spoonful  of  dry  mustard,  two  spoonfuls 
salt,  a  little  cayenne  pepper,  yolk  of  one  raw  egg ;  mix  these 
together. 

Then  add,  drop  by  drop,  one  teacupful  sweet-oil ;  stir  until 
a  thick  mass.  Add  a  little  vinegar.  Chop  very  fine  two  small 
cucumber  pickles,  two  teaspoonfuls  capers,  two  sprigs  parsley, 
one  leek  or  small  onion,  and  a  Little  celery ;  stir  all  into  the 
dressing.  This  is  delicious  with  boiled  fish,  either  hot  or  cold — 
also  cold  meats,  chicken  or  turkey. — Mrs.  S. 

Aromatic   Mustard. 

4  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard. 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  black  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
Mix  smoothly  with  boiling  vinegar,  add  a  little  salad  oil,  and 
let  it  stand  several  hours  before  using.     It  will  keep  any  length 
of  time.— ilfr.  R.  R.  M. 

To  Mix  Mustard. 
Take  half  a  cup  ground   mustard,  one  tablespoonful  sugar, 
four  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  oKve  oil,  or  water,  whichever  is 
preferred,  one  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  one  of  salt.—  Mrs.  P.  W. 


304  OAXB. 


CAKE. 

Before  commencing  to  make  cake,  be  sure  that  you  have  all 
the  ingredients  in  the  house,  and  all  the  implements  at  hand, 
such  as  trays,  bowls,  large  dishes,  large  strong  iron  spoons,  egg- 
beaters,  etc. 

Use  none  but  the  best  family  flour  in  making  cake.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  sift  it  before  weighing  or  measuring  it,  and  to  let 
it  air  and  sun  several  hours  before  using  it ;  as  this  makes  it 
much  lighter. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  set  aside  rancid  or  indifferent  butter 
for  cake-making.  The  butter  used  for  the  purpose  should  be 
good  and  fresh. 

Always  use  granulated  sugar  or  else  powdered  loaf  or  cut 
sugar ;  as  pulverized  sugar  is  apt  to  have  plaster  of  Paris  or 
other  foreign  elements  in  it.  Never  use  brown  or  even  clarified 
sugar  in  cake-making,  unless  it  be  for  gingerbread. 

Do  not  attempt  to  make  cake  without  fresh  eggs.  Cream  of 
tartar,  soda  and  yeast  powders  are  poor  substitutes  for  these. 

A  fresh  egg  placed  in  water  will  sink  to  the  bottom. 

In  breaking  eggs,  do  not  break  them  over  the  vessels  in  which 
they  are  to  be  beaten.  Break  them,  one  by  one,  over  a  saucer, 
so  that  if  you  come  across  a  defective  one,  you  will  not  spoil 
the  rest  by  mixing  it  with  them ;  whereas,  if  it  is  a  good  one, 
it  will  be  easy  to  pour  the  white  from  the  saucer  into  the  bowl 
with  the  rest  of  the  whites,  and  to  add  the  yolk  which  you  re- 
tain in  the  egg-shell  to  the  other  yolks. 

The  Dover  egg-beater  saves  much  time  and  trouble  in  beat- 
ing eggs  and  will  beat  the  yolks  into  as  stiff  a  froth  as  the 
whites.  It  is  well  to  have  two  egg-beaters,  one  for  the  yolks 
and  the  other  for  the  whites.  Eggs  well  beaten  ought  to  be  as 
stiff  as  batter.  Cool  the  dishes  that  you  are  to  use  in  beating 
eggs.     In  summer,  keep  the  eggs  on  ice  before  using  them,  and 


WHITE   CASE SUPEKIOR   WHITE   CAXE.  305 

always  try  to  make  the  cake  before  breakfast,  or  as  early  in  tlie 
morning  as  possible. 

Some  of  the  best  house  wi\es  think  it  advisable  to  cream  the 
butter  and  flour  together,  and  add  the  sugar  to  the  yolks  when 
these  are  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  as  it  produces  yellow  specks 
when  you  add  the  sugar  sooner.  The  whites  must  always  be 
added  last. 

In  making  fruit  cake,  prepare  the  fruit  the  day  before.  In 
winter  time,  this  may  be  easily  and  pleasantly  done  after  tea. 
It  requires  a  longer  time  to  bake  fruit  cake,  than  plain.  Every 
housekeeper  should  have  a  close  cake-box  in  which  to  put  cake 
after  cooling  it  and  wrapping  it  in  a  thick  napkin. 

White  Cake. 
The  whites  of  20  eggs. 
1  pound  of  flour. 
1  pound  of  butter. 
1  pound  of  almonds. 
Use  a  little  more  flour,  if  the  almonds  are  omitted. — Mrs. 
Br.  S. 

White  Cake. 
1  cup  of  butter. 
3  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  sweet  milk. 
The  whites  of  5  esss. 
3  cups  of  flour. 

3  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Ifrs.  D.  O.  K. 

Superior  White  Cake. 

1  pound  sugar. 

The  whites  of  10  eggs. 

\  pound  butter. 

I  pound  of  flour. 


306  LEIGHTON   CAKE — ^WHITB   MOUNTAIN   CAKE. 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  rose-water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.— Mrs.  F.  G.  W. 

Leighton  Cake. 
1  pint  butter. 

1  pint  cream. 

2  pints  sugar. 
4  pints  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  essence  of  almonds. 

The  whites  of  12  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder,  mixed  in  flour. — Mrs.  N. 

White  Mountain  Cake. 
4  cups  flour. 
1  cup  butter. 
3  cups  sugar,  creamed  Avith  the  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
1  small  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Whites  of  10  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans  ;  when  cold,  make  an  icing  of  whites 
of  three  eggs  and  one  pound  of  sugar.  Grate  cocoanut  over 
each  layer  of  icing. — 3frs.  P.  McG. 

White  ^fountain  Cake. 
1  pound  sugar. 
^  pound  butter, 
f  pound  of  flour. 

1  large  teaspoonful  essence  of  bitter  almonds. 
Whites  of  10  eggs,  whipped  very  stifi". 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  put  next  the  eggs,  then   the  flour, 
lastly  the  flavoring. — Mrs.  D.  G.  K. 

WJiite  Mountain   Cake. 
Make   four   or  five    thicknesses  of  cake,  as  for  jelly  cake 
Grate  one  large  cocoanut.     The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  twc 


WHITE   MOUNTAIN   OAKE — SNOW   MOUNTAIN   CAKE.      307 

lemons  or  oranges.  The  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  very  light, 
with  one  pound  sugar.  To  this  add  the  milk  of  one  cocoanut, 
then  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange.  Lastly,  stir  in  the  cocoanut 
well,  and  put  between  the  cakes  as  you  would  jelly. — Mrs.  tT.  L. 

White  Mountain   Cake. 

1  pound  flour, 

1  pound  sugar. 

f-  pound  butter. 

Whites  of  16  eggs. 

Wine-glass  of  wine  or  brandy. 

Bake  in  flat  pans. 

Grate  two  cocoanuts.     Beat  the  whites  of  four   or  five  eggs 

to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  as  much  sugar  as  for  icing.     Stir  in  the 

cocoanut;  spread  between  each  layer  of  the  cake,  as  jelly  cake. 

Ice  it  all,  or  only  on  top,  or  not  at  all,  as  you  please. — Mrs.  M, 

Mountain  Cake. 
The  whites  of  8  eggs, 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

^  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  well,  and  flavor  with  lemon.     Bake  in 
very  shallow  pans.     Ice  each   cake  separately  and  cover  with 
jelly ;  then  form  a  large  cake,  and  ice  over. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Snow  Mountain  Cake. 
1  cup  of  butter, 

3  cups  of  sugar,  creamed  together. 
1  cup  of  sweet  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  and  -^  teaspoon  of  soda,  sprinkled 
in  3^  cups  of  sifted  flour. 
Whites  of  10  eggs. 


SNOW   OAXE — MOUNTAIN   ASH   OAKE. 

Bake  in  thin  cakes  as  for  jelly  cakes.  Ice  and  sprinkle 
each  layer  with  grated  cocoanut. 

Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  for  the  icing,  and  grate  one 
cocoanut. — Mrs.  G.  M.  A. 

Snow  Cake. 
Whites  of  10  eggs. 
1^  cups  of  sugar. 

1  cup  of  flour. 

2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Salt. 

Flavoring. 
Rub  the  flour,  cream  tartar,  sugar,  and  salt,  well  together. 
Add  the  eggs  beaten  light,  and  stir  only  sufficient  to  mix  very 
Ughtly.— JIfrs.   G.P. 

White  Mountain  Ash  Uake. 
1  pound  white  sugar. 
1  teacup  of  butter. 
^  teacup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  10  eggs. 
^  small  teaspooufid  of  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

Flavor  with  vanilla  or  almond. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  with  icing  and  cocoanut  between. 
Icing  for  cake. — One  pound  fine  white  sugar,  and  whites  of 
three  eggs, — Miss  E.  P. 

Mountain  Ash  Cakx. 
The  whites  of  8  eggs. 

1  cup  of  butter, 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

^  cup  of  sweet  milk. 


bside'b  oakk  809 

^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
Mix.  all  the  ingredients  well,  and  flavor  with  lemon. 
Bake  in  shallow  pans ;  ice  each  cake  separately  and  cover 
with  jelly,  then  form  a  large  cake  and  ice  over. — Mrs.  P. 

Bride's  Cake. 

1  pound  floixr. 

f  pounds   sugar. 

\  pound  butter. 

Whites  of  14  eggs. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter  together,  and  stir  in  them  flour  and 
beaten  whites,  very  little   at  a  time ;  one  and  a  half  pounds 
fruit,  prepared  and   mixed  with  batter,  will  make  a  nice  fruit 
cake. — Mrs.  H.  B. 

Eride'a   Cake. 

Whites  of  18  eggs. 

1^  pounds  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 

f  pound  butter. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together ;  whip  the  eggs  to  a  stifi 
froth,  then  add  gradually,  flour,  butter,  sugar. 

Season  with  lemon  or  brandy.  Bake  as  pound  cake. — Mrs. 
R.E. 

JSride's   Cake. 

1^  pounds  flour. 
1|-  pounds  sugar. 
1^  pounds  butter. 
Whites  of  20  eggs. 

^  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  ammonia  dissolved  in  ^  a  wineglass 
of  brandy. 

Heavy  plain  icing.     1^  pound  mould. 

Insert  the  ring  after  the  cake  is  baked. —  Miss  S. 


310  BBIDe's   cake — SILVER   OAXE. 

JSride^s   Cake. 
f  pound  flour. 
^  pound  butter. 
14  wkites  of  eggs. 
1  pound  sugar — beat  in  the  whites. 
The  acid  of  1  green  lemon. 
Double  for  one  and  a  half  pound  cake. — Mrs.  J". 

Silver  Cakje. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 
^  pound  of  butter. 
■^  pound  of  sugar. 
\  and  ^  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sifted   flour,  or  6  ounces  of 

flour. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar. — Mrs.  W.   C.  R. 

Silver   Cake. 
1  pound  powdered  sugar 
f  pound  flour. 
^  pound  butter. 
Whites  of  1 1  eggs. 

1  teaspoouful  essence  of  bitter  almond. 
Cream  the  butter,  gradually  rub  in  the  flour,  then  the  sugai" ; 
add  the  flavoring  ;    last  of  all,  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stift'  froth.     Flavor  the  icing  with  vanilla  or  bitter 
almonds. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Silver   Cake. 

One  cup  sugar. 
I"  cup  butter. 
1|-  cups  flour. 
^  cup  of  milk. 

•^  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  and  half  as  much  soda 
Whites  of  4  eggs. 
Beat  the  butter  and  eggs  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  milk  and 
flour  with  the  soda  and  cream  tartar ;  whisk  the  white-''  of  the 


GOLD  CAKE — LADY  OAEJE.  311 

eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir  them  in  gently  at  the  last.  Flavor  with 

lemon. — Mrs.  G. 

Gold  Cake. 

1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  sugar. 

J  pound  butter. 

Yolks  of  11  eggs. 

Grated  rind  of  an  orange. 

Juice  of  2  lemons. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Cream  the  butter  well,  rub  into  it  the  flour.     Beat  the  yolks 
well,  put  in  the  sugar,  and  beat  again ;  add  the  orange  rind  and 
lemon  j  nice. 

Mix  all  together,  and  beat  for  ten  minutes.  Last  of  all,  sift 
in  the  soda,  stirring  it  in  well.  Requires  two  hours  to  bake  in 
one  pound  cake-mould.     Flavor  the   icing  with  lemon. — Mrs. 

S.  T. 

Angel's  Cake. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

3  cups  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
•^  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  ^  cup  of  milk. 
Mix  in  this  way ;  add  the  sugar  to  the  eggs,  then  the  butter 
well  creamed,  then  the  flour  and  milk  alternately.     Season  to 
taste.     Bake  thin,  and  spread  icing  between,  on  the  top  and 
sides,  sprinkling  grated  cocoauut  over  the   whole. — Mrs.  C 

Lady  Cake. 
1  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  of  flour. 
6  ounces  of  butter. 
The  whites  of  14  eggs. 
Season  with  two  drops  oil  of  bitter  almond. — Miss  8. 


312       LADY  OAKE— MEBBY  CHKISTMA6  CASE. 

Lady   Cake. 
The  whites  of  8  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth. 
3  cups  flour. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  butter,  creamed  with  the  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour. 
\  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  \  cup  sweet  milk. 

Beat  all  together,  and  bake  in  a  mould  or  small  pans.  Season 
to  iaste.  A  little  whisky  or  rum  improves  cake  of  all  kinds. — 
M^  9.  Dr.  G. 

Delicate  Cake. 

2  cups  white  sugar. 
2^  cups  corn  starch. 

8  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 

^  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  milk. 
^  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  in  corn  starch. 
Flavor  with  juice  of  one  lemon. — Mrs.  R.  H. 

Delicate   Cake. 
One  pound  pulverized  white  sugar,  seven  ounces  of  butter 
(stirred  to  a  cream). 

Whites  of  16  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
Stir  in  1  pound  of  sifted  flour. 
Flavor  to  the  taste.     Bake  immediately. — Mrs.  A.  H. 

Merry  Christmas  Cake. 
2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  com  starch. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  butter. 

\  cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans.     Between  each  layer  when  done,  on 


CORN   STAItOH   CAKE — WHITE   FRUIT   OAKE.  313 

sides  and  top,  spread    icing,  with   gratod   cocoanut.     A  very 
pretty  dish. — 3frs.  McG. 

Corn  Starch  Cakk. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

1^  cups  corn  starch. 

2  cups  flour. 

1  cup  milk,  perfectly  sweet. 

\  teaspoonful  soda. 

\  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together.     Dissolve  the  soda  and 
com  starch  in  the  milk;  put  the  cream  tartar  in  the  flour. 
Mix  these  well,  and  then  add  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten. 
—Mrs.  S. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  blanched  almonds. 

3  pounds  citron. 

1  cocoanut. 

Whites  of  16  eggs. — -Mrs.  Dr.  J. 

White  Fruit    Cake. 

1  pound  pulverized  sugar. 

f  pound  butter. 

Whites  of  12  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 

1  pound  flour. 

2  grated  cocoanuts. 

2  pounds  citron,  cut  in  small  pieces. 
2  pounds  blanched  almonds,  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Bake  slowly. 

27 


314  WHITE   FEUIT   CAKE — ^BLACK   CAKE. 

White  Fruit   Cake. 
Whites  of  16  eggs,  beaten  well. 
8  ounces  butter. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  teacup  citron. 
1  cup  almonds. 
3  cups  grated  cocoanut. 
The  citron  and  almonds  to  be  cut  and  blanched,  of  course. 

White  Fruit   Cake  [superior,  tried  recipe^. 

1  pound  white  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 
^  pound  butter. 
Whites  of  12  eggs. 

2  pounds  citron,  cut  in  thin,  long  strips. 

2  pounds  almonds,  blanched  and  cut  in  strips. 
1  large  cocoanut,  grated. 
Before  the  flour  is  sifted,  add  to  it  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
two  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar.  Cream  the  butter  as  you  do  for 
pound  cake,  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  it  awhile ;  then  add  the 
whites  of  eggs,  and  flour;  and  after  beating  the  batter  suffi- 
ciently, add  about  one-third  of  the  fruit,  reserving  the  rest  to 
add  in  layers,  as  you  put  the  batter  in  the  cake-mould.  Bake 
slowly  and  carefully,  as  you  do  other  fruit  cake. — Mrs.  W. 

Black  Cake. 
1^^  pounds  butter. 
1^  pounds  sugar. 
1^  pounds  flour. 
1^  dozen  eggs. 
2  pounds  stoned  raisins. 
2  pounds  picked  and  washed  currants. 

1  pound  sliced  citron. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pulverized  cloves. 


BLACK   CAKE.  31fi 

2  tablespoonfuls  nutmeg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

1  tablespoonful  powdered  ginger, 

1  teaspoon  ful  salt. 

2  wineglasses  of  brandy. — Mrs.  1). 

JBlack   Cake. 
\^  pounds  flour. 
1^  pounds  butter. 
1-^  povinds  sugar. 

1  pound  citron. 

2  pounds  beaten  raisins. 

2  pounds  sweet  raisins,  well  cut. 
2  pounds  currants. 
The  juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons  and  two  oranges,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  ;  after  the  beaten  fruit  is  well  beaten,  add  the 
cut  fruit.     The  citron  or  orange  peel  should  never  be  rubbed  in 
flour.— ilfr«.  P. 

jBlach   Cake. 
Yolks  of  24  eggs. 
1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  sugar. 

Take  out  a  gill  of  the  sugar,  and  in  place  put  one  gill  ol 
molasses,  one  pound  flour ;  out  of  it  take  six  tablespoonfuls, 
and  in  f  lace  put  five  spoonfuls  of  seconds,  and  one  of  corn  meal. 

4  pounds  seedless  raisins. 

■J  pound  citron. 

^  pound  currants. 

•^  pound  almonds  and  palm  nuts. 

2  ounces  grated  cocoanut. 
2  ounces  fine  chocolate. 

1  tablespoonful  finely  ground  cofiee. 

1  tablespoonful  allspice,  mace,  and  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  vanilla. 


dl6  BBUIT  CAKE   "WITH    SPICES — ^FBUIT  OAKB. 

1  gill  blackberry  wine,  or  brandy. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 

Bake  the  mass  six  hours  very  moderately. — Mrs.  J. 

Fruit  Cake  with  Spices. 

1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 

1  dozen  eggs. 

Mix  as  for  pound  cake. 

Add  1  pound  almonds. 

1  pound  raisins. 

\  pound  citron. 

1  ounce  mace. 

1  ounce  cloves. 

1  ounce  allspice. — Mrs.  A.  C 

Fruit  Cake. 

2  pounds  best  stoned  raisins. 
2  pounds  currants. 
1  pound  citron. 
12  eggs. 

I  pound  fresh  butter. 
I  pound  loaf  sugar. 
I  pound  flour. 
Make  the  batter  as  you  would  for  nice  cake,  and  before  add 
ing  the  fruit,  stir  into  the  batter — 

4^  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

1^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon. 

1  small  tablespoonful  of  white  ginger. 

4^  nutmegs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  best  molasses. 


FEUIT   CAKE.  'ill 

Add  by  degrees  the  fruit  and  one-half  teacup  best  brai  dy ; 
bake  slowly  five  hours.  Excellent,  and  will  keep  good  six 
months. — Mrs.  F.  * 

Fruit  Cake. 

18  eggs. 

1^  pounds  flour. 

1^  pounds  sugar. 

1^  pounds  butter. 

2  pounds  raisins, 

2  pounds  currants,  washed  and  picked. 

1^  pounds  citron. 

2  nutmegs. 

2  pounds  almonds,  weighed  in  shell. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

2  tablespoonfuls  mace. 

1  small  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  small  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  ginger. 
2  wine-glasses  of  wine. 
1  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  in  a  cup  of  milk. 

Let  it  rise  about  three  hours,  then  bake  slowly,  and  let  i* 
stand  a  good  while  after  it  is  baked,  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  C.  B. 

Fruit  Cake. 
2^  pounds  butter. 
2^  pounds  flour. 
25  eggs. 

2^  pounds  sugar, 
3  pounds  citron. 

5  pounds  currants. 

6  pounds  raisins. 

A  large  spoonful  cinnamon. 


318  FEUIT  CAKE — KICH   FEUIT   OAKB. 

1  Bpoonful  mace. 
4  nutmegs. 
A.  glass  wine. 
A  glass  brandy. 
This  will  make  a  very  large  cake. — Mrs.  A.  JP. 

Fruit  Cake. 

1^  pound  risen  dough. 

10  eggs. 

2  cups  butter. 

4  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

1  cup  wine,  or  brandy. 

1  light  teaspoonfid  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 

■^  teaspoonful  cloves. 
Beat  these  ingredients  together  and  add  one  pound  of  stoned 
raisins,  one  pound  of  citron  dredged  in  iioui\ 

If  very  soft  for  cake,  add  a  little  flour. — Mrs.  J'.  W. 

Rich  Fruit  Cake. 
1  quart  of  sifted  flour. 

1  pound  of  fresh  butter,  cut  up  in  1  pound  powdered  sugar. 
12  eggs. 

3  pounds  of  bloom  raisins. 
1^  pound  of  Zante  currants. 
|-  pound  of  sliced  citron, 

1  tablespoonful  each  of  mace  and  cinnamon. 

2  nutmegs. 

1  large  wineglassful  Madeira  wine. 

1  large  wineglassful  French  brandy  mixed  with  the  spices. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together — eggs  separately.  Flour 
the  fruit  well,  and  add  the  flour  and  other  ingredients,  2)utting 
the  fruit  in  last.     Bake  in  a  straight  side  mould,  \s  it  turns 


FBUIT  CAXE — OKANGE  CAKE.  31^ 

out  easier.  One  pound  of  blanclied  almonds  will  improve  tMs 
recipe.  Bake  until  thoroughly  done,  then  ice  while  warm. — 
Mrs.  L. 

Fi-uit   Cake. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  butter. 

2  pounds  raisins. 

2  pounds  currants. 

1  pound  citron. 

2  tablespoonfu.ls  of  mace  and  cinnamon. 
2  nutmegs,  powdered. 

•^  pint  of  brandy  and  wine,  mixed. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven.     Seedless  raisins  are  best  for  cake. — 
Mrs.  F.  C.  W. 

Pineapple,  or  Orange  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter. 
3  cups  sugar. 

5  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
3^  cups  flour. 
■^  cup  sweeb  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
1  teaspooufnl  soda. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins,  four  or  five  deep.  Have  ready 
a  thick  icing,  which  put  on  the  cakes  as  thickly  as  will  stick ; 
spread  thickly  on  that  the  grated  pineapple,  or  orange,  the  icing 
to  be  flavored  with  the  juice  of  the  fruit  and  a  little  tartaric 
3iCidi.— Mrs.  C.  G. 

Orange  Cake. 

Bake  sponge  cake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  three  for  each  cake. 
Spread  an  icing  between  the  cakes,  made  of  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beaten  very  light,  and  one  and  one-quai-ter  pounds  powdered 
sugar. 

The  rind  and  juice  of  one  large,  or  two  small  oranges. 


320  OSAIfOE  CAKE LEMON  CAKE. 

The  rind  and  juice  of  one-half  lemon ;  the  other  half  to  be 
used  for  the  cake. — Mrs.  P.  Mc  G. 

Orcmge  Cake. 
8  eggs. 

1^  pounds  sugar. 
1^  pounds  flour, 
f  pound  butter. 

1  pint  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  miv  in  the  sugar  and  creamed 
butter.  Pour  in  half  the  milk,  and  dissolve  the  cream  tartar 
and  soda  in  the  other  half.  Add  the  sifted  flour  as  quickly  as 
possible  after  the  foaming  milk  is  poured  in.  Bake  in  jelly- 
cake  pans. 

Take  six  oranges,  grate  the  peel  and  squeeze  the  juice  with 
two  pounds  pulverized  sugar.  If  you  use  sweet  oranges,  add  the 
juice  of  two  lemons.  After  stirring  to  a  smooth  paste,  spread 
between  the  layers  of  the  cake.  Ice,  or  sprinkle  over  sugar  the 
last  layer  on  top  of  the  cake. — 3Irs.  tT.  C.  TF! 

Orange  Cake. 
First  make  a  sponge  cake  with  twelve  eggs,  the  weight  of 
twelve  eggs  in  sugar,  and  weight  of  ten  in  flour.  Then  make 
an  icing  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  oranges;  add  sufficient  pow- 
dered sugar  to  make  the  proper  consistency  for  icing — then  put 
between  each  cake,  and  on  top  of  the  whole  cake. — Mrs.  C.  S. 

Lemon  Cake. 
1  cupful  butter. 
3  cupfuls  white  sugar. 
5  eggs  beaten  separately. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  together. 


LEMON  CAKE — "  GEN.  KOBEKT  LEE   PAKE. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  cup  milk. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
5  small  teacupfuls  flour. 
Bake  in  small  or  shallow  tins. — Mrs.  C 

Lemon   Cake. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  rubbed  to 
a  cream. 

Stir  iu  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  a  cupful  of  milk ;  add  the  whites,  and  sift 
in  as  lightly  as  possible  four  cupfuls  of  flour.  Add  the  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  one  lemon. — 3Irs.  Dr.  S. 

"  Robert  E.  Lee  "  Cake. 

Twelve  eggs,  their  full  weight  in  sugar,  a  half- weight  in  flour. 
!Pake  it  in  pans  the  thickness  of  jelly  cakes.  Take  two  pounds 
of  nice  "  A  "  sugar,  squeeze  into  it  the  juice  of  five  oranges  and 
three  lemons  together  with  the  pulp  ;  stir  it  in  the  sugar  until 
perfectly  smooth ;  then  spread  it  on  the  cakes,  as  you  would  do 
jelly,  putting  one  above  another  till  the  whole  of  the  sugar  is 
used  up.     Spread  a  layer  of  it  on  top  and  on  sides.— i!/r5.  G. 

"Gen.  Robert  Lee"  Cake. 

10  eggs. 

1  pound  sugar. 

^  pound  flour. 

Rind  of  1  lemon,  and  juice  of  ^  lemon. 
Make  exactly  like  sponge  cake,  and  bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 
Then  take  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beat  to  a  froth,  and  add  one 
pound  sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange,  or  juice 
of  half  a  lemon.  Spread  it  on  the  cakes  before  they  are  per- 
fectly cold,  and  place  one  layer  on  another.  This  quantity 
makes  two  cakes. — Mrs.  I.  H. 


322  COCOANUT   CAKB  — MOUNTAIN    COCOANDT   CAKE. 

Coco  AN  UT  Cake. 
1  teacup  fresh  butter. 
3  teacups  white  sugar. 
3^  teacups  flour. 
Whites  of  ten  eggs. 
1  cup  sweet  mUk. 

1  light  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  light  teaspooufuls  cream  of  tartar. 
A  little  essence  of  lemon. 

Bake  in  cakes  an  inch  thick  and  spread  with  icing,  having 
grated  cocoanut  stirred  in ;  pile  one  on  another,  allowing  a  little 
time  for  drying  off.  In  making  the  icing,  leserve  some  plain 
for  the  outside  of  cake.  Finish  ott"  by  sprinkling  on  the  pre- 
pared cocoanut. — Miss  JP. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 
Beat  to  a  fine  cream  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  and 
half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Add  gradually  eight  eggs  well  beaten, 
then  mixed,  one  tablespoonful  essence  of  lemon,  one  small  nut- 
meg, grated ;  mix  all  well  together,  then  stir  in  lightly  half  a 
pound  flour  in  turn  with  half  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut. 
Pour  the  mixture  in  a  well-buttered  pan,  and  bake  quickly. — 
J/r«.  C.  V.McG. 

Mountain  Cocoanut  Cake. 
Cream  together  one  pound  sugar,  half  a  pound  butter.  Beat 
eight  eggs  lightly  without  separating.  Stir  them  gradually 
into  the  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  in  one  pound  of  flour,  beat  all 
light,  then  put  in  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  half 
a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tar- 
tar dissolved  in  the  same  quantity  of  milk.  Season  with  lemou 
or  vanilla.  For  the  icing,  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  water  and 
one  pound  sugar ;  boil  until  it  glistens.  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  into  the  boiling  icing,  then  add 


angel's    BRBAr OLAY   OAKB.  323 

half  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut.     Spread  the  icing  between  the 
cakes  and  on  the  top. — Miss  S. 

Angel's  Bread. 
A  variety  of  Cocoanut  Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  cups  flour. 
Whites  of  eight  eggs. 
■^  cup  sweet  milk. 

^  teaspoonful  soda,  1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  stirred  in 
the  milk. 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

1  grated  cocoanut. 

Spread  top  and  bottom  of  cake  with  icing,  then  put  on  the 
cocoanut,  and  so  on  till  your  cake  is  large  as  you  wish.  Ice 
the  whole  cake,  and  sprinkle  on  cocoanut.  Make  the  icing, 
three  whites  to  one  povmd  of  pulverized  sugar,  with  juice  of 
one  lemon. — Mrs.  D.  JR. 

Clay  Cake. 

3  cups  sugar. 
1  cup  butter. 

4  cups  flour. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

6  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  in  the  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  ci'eam  of  tartar  in  the  flour. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.     Bake  it  in  layers. 

Icing  for  the  Cake. — Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  into  a  froth, 
and  add  nine  teaspoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar  to  each  egg, 
flavoring  it  with  vanilla.  Then  grate  up  two  large  cocoanuts, 
and  after  icing  each  layer,  sprinkle  grated  cocoanut  on  it.  Put 
the  layers  on  each  other  as  in  making  jelly  cake. — Mrs.  1.  W. 


324  OOCOANUT  CAKES. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar. 
■^  cup  butter. 

3  eggs. 

,  1  cup  milk. 
3  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

Filling :  one  grated  cocoanut ;  to  half-pound  of  this  add  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar ;  lay  this  between  the  layers  of  the  cake  ;  mix  with  the 
other  half  of  the  cocoanut  four  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar, 
and  strew  thickly  on  top  of  the  cake. — Mrs.  D.  C  J^. 

One,  Two,  Three,  Four  Cocoanut  Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar.  ^ 

3  cups  flour. 
"Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

^  teaspoonful  soda. 

^  small  cocoanut,  stirred  in  at  the  last. — Mrs.  D.  C.  K. 

Cocoanut  Cake. 

1  teacup  of  butter. 
3  teacups  of  sugar. 
3^  teacups  of  flour. 
"Whites  of  10  eggs. 

■^  cup  sweet  milk,  with  one  teaspoon  not  quite  full  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
Essence  of  lemon. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light.  Cream  the  butter,  then  mix  the 
ingredients  gradually.  Sift  the  cream  tartar  with  the  flour,  and 
dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  add  to  the  cake  last.  Bake 
in  pans ;  an  inch  thick  when  baked.     Mix  prepared  cocoanut 


OHOOOLATE   OAKM.  325 

with  the  icing ;  ice  the  top  of  the  first  cake  with  the  cocoaniit 
icing,  dry  it  slightly ;  lay  another  cake  on  top,  and  ice  again, 
and  continue  until  the  last  cake  is  added,  then  ice  all  over. 
When  the  last  coat  of  icing  is  put  on,  sprinkle  the  prepared 
cocoanut  all  over  the  cake,  to  give  it  a  frosted  appearance. — 
Mrs.  M.  S.  C. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

1^  pounds  grated  chocolate. 

12  eggs. 

If  pounds  brown  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

A  few  coriander-seed. 
Break  the  eggs  in  the  sugar  and  beat  them,  adding  the  choco- 
late by  degrees,  until  well  incorporated ;  then  add  the  spices, 
all  of  which  must  be  well  powdered.     Grease  some  small  tins 
with  lard,  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  T. 

Chocolate   Cake. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 
1  cupful  butter. 

3  cupfuls  flour. 

f  cupful  sour  cream  or  milk. 
3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  soda. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  together ;  break  the  eggs  into  it 
one  at  a  time ;  then  add  the  flour,  then  the  sour  cream  with  the 
soda.     Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans. 

Filling  :  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three- 
qviarters  cup  of  sweet  milk  ;  boil  half-done. — Mrs.  F. 

Chocolate   Cake. 
3  cupfuls  sifted  flour, 
1^  cupfuls  sugar. 


326  CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

1  cupful  sweet  milk. 

1  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  essence  lemon. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  milk 
(in  which  the  soda  should  be  dissolved),  next  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  lastly  the  essence.  Mix  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  and 
afterwards  the  third  cupful  of  flour  into  which  the  cream  tartar 
has  been  stirred.  Bake  in  square,  flat  pans.  Grate  three 
ounces  of  chocolate,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk;  warm 
slowly,  and  add  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar.  Boil  three 
minutes,  and  pour  over  top  of  the  cake.  If  you  choose,  you  can 
slice  open  the  cake^  and  put^nside  of  it  a  custai'd  of  one  pint  of 
milk,  warmed,  and  two  eggs  added,  with  sugar  and  flour  to  your 

taste. — Mrs.  H. 

Chocolate    Cake. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs  and  whites  of  2. 

1  cupful  milk. 

3^  ciipfuls  flour. 

^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 
Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins. 

Filling  :  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Beat  well  together  ;  spread  on  top  and  between  layers 
of  the  cake. — 3frs.  K. 

CJiocolate   Cake. 
Cream  together  one  pound  siigar,  one  and  a  half  pounds  but- 
ter.    Beat  eight  eggs  light  without  separating ;  stir  them  grad- 
ually into  the  sugar  and  butter.     Sift  in  one  pound  of  flour  ; 


CHOCOLATE   JELLY   PAKE — CITRON   CAKE.  32? 

beat  all  light.  Then  put  in  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  half-teaeupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  even  teaspoon- 
ful s  cream  tartar  dissolved  in  the  same  quantity  of  milk.  Sea- 
son with  lemon  or  vanilla.     Bake  in  jelly  pans. 

Icing  for  the  same  :  nine  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  one  pound 
of  sugar  ;  boil  till  it  glistens. 

Bea^  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Stir  them  into 
the  boiling  icing,  then  add  one-quarter  pound  grated  chocolate. 

Spread  the  icing  between  the  cakes  and  over  the  top. — 
Miss  S. 

Chocolate  Jelly  Cake. 
Make  a  sponge  cake  according  to  old  family  recipe,  bake 
either  in  jelly  tins  or  moulds ;  then  slice  the  cake  for  the  fol- 
lowing preparation  :  one  teacnpful  of  milk,  half  a  cake  Baker's 
chocolate,  scraped  or  grated,  one  egg  beaten  with  sugar  enough 
to  make  it  sweet ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Let  it  boil  (stirring  all 
the  time)  till  quite  thick.  Place  it  evenly  and  thickly  between 
the  slices  of  cake.  Instead  of  the  sponge  cake,  some  use  the 
ordinary  jelly-cake  recipe. — Mrs.  JB. 

Citron  Cake. 
12  ounces  flour. 
12  ounces  butter. 
10  eggs. 
1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  citron,  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Mix  like  a  pound  cake. — Mrs.  C.  L.  T. 

Git/ron   Cake. 
4  large  coffeecups  sifted  flour. 
2^  cupfuls  powdered  sugar. 
1  cupful  butter. 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiflT  froth. 
Add  two  tablespoonfuls  rose  water. 


328  CITKON   CAKE — ALMOND   CAKE. 

Butter  a  cake  pan,  and  put  alternate  layers  of  batter  and  cit- 
ron sliced  in  long,  thin  slices. — Mrs.  McG. 

Citron   Cake. 
1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  sugar, 
f  pound  butter, 
12  eggs. 

2  pounds  citron. 

2  pounds  grated  cocoanut. 

2  pounds  almonds. 

1  teaspoonful  mace. — Mrs.  M.  E. 

Citron  Cake. 

1  pound  of  flour. 
\  pound  of  sugar, 
f  pound  of  butter. 
10  or  12  eggs. 

2  pounds  of  citron. 
1  cocoanut,  grated. 

Fruit  to  be  put  in  last. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Almond  Cake. 
1^  pounds  of  sugar. 
1^  pounds  of  butter. 
1  pound  of  flour. 
12  eggs. 
1  pound  almonds. — Mrs.  S. 

Almond  Cake. 
12  eggs. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  butter. 


DABK  FIG   OAKK    -POUND   CAJKE.  329 

1  pound  almonds  (blanched). 
.  1  pound  citron. 
Blanch  the  almonds,  and  slice  the  citron  thin. 
One  wine-glass  of  brandy. 
Mix  like  pound  cake. — 3frs.  S.   T. 

Dark  Fig  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 
1  cup  of  butter. 

One  cup  of  cold  water,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  it. 

3  cups  of  raisins,  chopped  fine. 
Cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 

4  eggs. 

1  pound  of  figs. 

Use  the  figs  whole,  covering  them  well  with  the  cake  to 
prevent  burning.  Bake  in  layers,  frosting  between  each  layer. 
Make  as  stift'  as  pound  cake.  Cut  with  a  vei-y  sharp  knife, 
to  prevent  crumbling.  This  recipe  makes  two  loaves. — Mrs. 
A.  T. 

Currant  Cake. 

1  cup  butter. 

2  cups  sugar. 

\  cup  sweet  milk. 
6  eggs. 
4  cups  flour. 
^  a  nutmeg. 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

One  pound  currants  washed,  dried,  and  rolled  in  the  flour. — 

Mrs.  w.L.n. 

Pound  Cake. 
1  pound  butter. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 

16  eggs,  yolks  of  4. 

28 


330  POITND  OAKE. 

After  the  butter  is  creamed,  work  the  sugar  and  butter  well 
before  mixing. — Jifrs.  M.  B.  G. 

Pound  Cake. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  of  flour. 

12  eggs. 
Cream  the  butter;  rub  into  it  gradually  the  sifted  and  dried 
flour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  very  light,  then  add  the 
powdered  sugar,  beat  again,  add  a  wine-glass  of  brandy  or 
one  of  good  whiskey  flavored  with  nutmeg,  or  the  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon ;  mix  all  together.  Stir  in  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stifl"  froth,  just  before  baking.  It  will  take  two 
hours  to  bake. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Pound  Cake. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  of  sugar, 
f  pound  of  butter. 
10  eggs. 
Cream  the  butter  well  with  flour  ;  beat  the  yolks  well,  and  add, 
by  degi-ees,  the  butter  and  flour,  and  then  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiflT  froth.     Season  with  mace  and  one  glass  of  wine.     Bake  in 
cups  well  greased.     For  fruit  cake  add  to  above,  two  pounds 
of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one-half  a  pound  of  citron, 
stirred  in  by  degrees.     Add  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  the  sea- 
soning.    One  pound   of  butter,  and  one  dozen  eggs  for  fruit 
cake. — Mrs.  A.  0. 

Pound  Cake. 
Beat  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  to  a  stiff"  froth.  The  yolks 
beat  until  they  look  light  and  white  ;  then  beat  in  one  pound 
of  sugar ;  next  add  the  whites ;  cream  the  light  pound  of  butter 
until  it  looks  frothy  ;  then  sift  in  by  degrees  one  pound  of  flour 
and  cream  them  together,  and  add  the  other  mixture.     Put  a 


VERT   DELICATE   POUND    CAKE iiUTTEE    SPONGE   CAKE.    331 

little  powdered  mace,  if  you  like,  a  wine-glass  of  wine,  and  the 
same  of  brandy. — Mrs.   W. 

Very  Delicate  Pound  Cake. 
16  eggs,  4  yolks. 
1  pound  of  flour. 
1  pound  of  sugar, 
f  pound  of  butter. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Superior  Pound  Cake. 
1  pound  of  white  sugar, 
f  pound  of  butter. 
1  pound  of  flour. 
Whites  of  12  eggs,  yolks  of  9. 
Cream  the  butter ;  add  part  of  the  sugar  and  yolks,  and  beat 
well ;   then  gradually  add  the  whites,  and  flour  and  balance  of 
yolks.     Beat  well,  flavor  with  extract   of  lemon,  and   bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  F.  C.  W. 

JPound  Cake. 
1  pound  flour. 

I  pound  sugar, 
f  pound  butter. 

II  eggs. 

Sift  and  dry  the  flour,  sift  the  sugar  ;  wash  all  the  salt  out  oi 
the  butter,  and  squeeze  all  the  water  out  of  it.  Cream  the  but- 
ter with  half  the  flour  or  more  ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  sep- 
arately, beating  rather  more  than  half  of  the  sugar  with  the 
yolks;  then  rub  the  remaining  sugar  and  flour  up  together. 
Mix  all  these  ingredients,  part  at  a  time,  first  one,  then  another. 
Beat  well,  and  season  with  Fi-ench  brandy  and  lemon,  or  wine 
and  nutmeg,  to  your  taste. — Mrs.  M. 

Butter  Sponge  Cake.  ' 

14  eggs. 
"Weight  of  14  in  sugar. 


332  BUTTBB   SPONGE   CAKE SPONGE   OASJt. 

Weight  of  8  in  butter. 
Weight  of  6  in  flour. 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons. 
All  the  ingredients  added  to  the  beaten  yolks,  and  the  frothed 
whites  stirred  in  last. — Jifrs.  S.   T. 

Butter  Sponge   Cake. 
14  eggs. 

Their  weight  in  sugar. 
8  in  flour. 
6  in  butter. 

The  rind  of  1,  and  juice  of  2  lemons. 
Bake  quickly. — Mrs.  S. 

Sponge  Cake. 
The  weight  of  1  dozen  eggs  in  sugar. 
The  weight  of  4  eggs  in  flour. 
The  juice  and  lind  of  1  lemon. 
Beat  well,  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  Mc  G. 

Confederate  Sponge  Cake. 

1  cupful  white  sugar. 

2  cupfuls  sifted  flour. 
^  cupful  cold  water. 

3  eggs. 

One  teaspoonful  yeast  powder  in  the  flour;  flavor  to  the 
taste.  Mix  yolks  and  sugar,  then  add  the  water  after  the 
whites  (beaten  to  a  stiff"  froth  first),  then  the  flour. — Miss  S. 

Sponge  Cake. 

14  eggs. 

Weight  of  10  in  powdered  sugar. 
Weight  of  6  in  flour. 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  very  light,  then  add  the  sugar 


SPONGE   CAKE — EXTKA   SPONGE   OAKB.  333 

and  beat  again.  Put  in  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
then  the  whites  of  fourteen  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiif  froth.  Beat 
all  together  for  fifteen  minutes  without  cessation,  stirring  in  the 
flour  last,  barely  mixing ;  do  not  beat  it.  Pour  into  buttered 
moulds  or  shapes  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  A  large  cake  will 
require  fully  an  hour  for  baking.  If  it  bakes  too  fast  on  top, 
cover  with  buttered  paper. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Sponge  Cake.     {Never  fails.) 
12  eggs. 

Their  weight  in  sugar. 
The  weight  of  7  in  flour. 
Juice  of  1  lemon. 
1  tablespoonful  good  vinegar. 
Beat  the  whites,  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar ;  add  the  whites, 
beat  well ;    add  the  flour,  and  after  adding  it,  do  not  beat  it 
longer  than  is  required  to  stir  it  in ;  then  add  the  lemon  and 
vinegar,  just  as  you  put  it  in  the  tins  or  moulds. 

When  the  cake  is  hot,  lemon  sauce  is  nice  to  eat  with  it. — 
Mrs.  K. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. 
4  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 
2  teacupfuls  sugar. 

1  cupful    sweet  cream. 

2  heaping  cupfuls  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Two  teaspooufuls  cream  ot  tartar,  mixed  in  "the  flour  before 
it  is  sifted.  Add  whites  of  eggs  last  thing  before  the  flour,  then 
stir  that  in  gently,  without  beating.  Very  nice. — Mrs.  F. 
C.  W.     ' 

Extra  Spokge  Cake. 
Whites  of  14  eggs. 
Yolks  of  only  7. 
One  pound  best  white  sugar  stirred  in  the  yolks  after  thej 


334  SPONGE   CAKE   ROLL — JELLY   FOR   OAKE. 

are  well  beaten.  Add  the  whites,  and  lastly  stir  in  very  lightly 
half  a  pound  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  very  little  after  putting  in 
the  flour.     Bake  quickly.— Jfrs.  D.  G.  K. 

Sponge   Cake  Roll. 

6  eggs. 

1^  teacups  flour. 

1  teacup  powdered  sugar. 

Rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Beat  the  eggs  separately  and  very  light.  Do  not  beat  the 
batter  much  after  adding  the  flour,  which  must  be  done  last  of 
all.  Get  a  square  baking-pan,  butter  it,  and  pour  one-half  the 
batter  in,  reserving  the  rest  for  a  second  layer.  Have  ready  a 
nice  damp  towel,  lay  the  cake  on  it  when  taken  out  of  the  pan ; 
spread  over  the  cake, jam  or  currant  jelly;  roll  it  up  whilst 
damp,  and  when  firmly  set  put  it  in  a  place  to  dry.  It  is  good 
eaten  with  sauce,  when  for  a  dinner  dish,  or  it  can  be  cut  in 
slices  and  eaten  as  small  cakes. — Mrs.  M.   G. 

Sponge  Roll. 
4  cupfuls  of  sugar.     ^ 
4  cupfuls  of  floui". 
1  dozen  eggs. 
Mix  as  for  sponge  cake.     Bake  in  thin  sheets  and  spread  on 
stewed  apples,  or  any  kind  of  fruit,  a  little  sweetened ;  roll  che 
sheets  with  the  top  on  the  outside.     Serve  with  rich  wine  sa  ace. 
—Mrs.  Gol.  S. 

Jelly  for   Cake. 

1  lemon  bruised  and  strained. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
1  large  apple. 
1  egg. 
Beat  the  egg  and  mash  the   apple  fine,  grate  the  lemon  peel, 
then  mix  all  together ;  put  into  a  can  or  cup  and  set  into  a  pot 


AKOTHSB.  FILLmO   FOR   CAKE — ^JELLT    CAKE.  335 

of  water.     Let  boil  until  it  is  cooked,  and  use  as  you  would  for 
common  jelly  cake. — Mrs.    W.  McF, 

Another  Filling  fou  Cake. 

Dissolve  one-half  cake  of  chocolate  in  one  teacup  of  cream  or 
milk,  and  let  it  cool  slowly ;  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  stir  in 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  mixed  with  one  pound  of 
sugar.  Let  it  cool,  stirring  all  the  time  till  you  find  tnat  it 
will  harden  when  cool. 

Spread  between  the  cakes  while  it   is  still  soft. — Mrs.  E. 

a  G. 

Jelly   Cake. 

Beat  8  eggs  very  light. 
Cream  ^  pound  butter, 
f  pound  flour, 
f  povmd  sugar  well  beaten. 
1  teaspoonful  tartaric  acid. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Stir  these  in  when  ready  to  bake.     Bake  in  thin  pans,  and 
put  on  jelly  while  warm. — Mrs.  «/!  L. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 
Bake  sponge-cake  batter  (by  recipe  given)  in  jelly-cake  pans. 
Beat  Avith  three  eggs,  two  cupfuls  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
melted,  and  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.  Stir  over  a 
slow  fire  until  it  boils,  then  spread  between  the  layers  of  cake. 
Ice  with  lemon  icing,  or  sift  over  powdered  sugar, — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Jelly  Cake. 
8  eggs. 

The  weight  of  4  in  flour. 
The  weight  of  6  in  sugar. 
To  be  baked  in  flat  tins. 

For  the  jelly :  one-quarter  pound  butter,  one-half  pound 
Bugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 


336  LEMON   JELLY   CAKE — EOLLED   JELLY   CAKE. 

To  be  put  in  a  saucepan  and  allowed  to  come  to  a  boil.  Then 
tlie  three  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  must  be  stirred  in  and 
the  saucepan  returned  to  the  fire  until  it  boils  up.  Spread 
between  layers  of  cake. — 3frs.  E.  G.   G. 

Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 
Bake  as  for  the  orange  cake.  For  the  jelly :  take  the  juice 
and  rind  of  three  lemons,  one  pound  sugar,  one-quarter  pound 
butter,  six  eggs  ;  beat  together ;  scald  as  you  do  ciistard.  When 
cool,  it  must  be  thick-spread  between  the  cakes ;  ice  the  top. — 
Mrs.  C.  a 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake. 

3  eggs. 

1  teacup  of  sugar. 

1  teacup  of  flour. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  till  light,  then  add  the  sugar  ;  con- 
tinue beating  for  some  time,  then  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff"  froth ;  next  put  in  the  flour,  a  little  at  a  time.  Bake  in  a 
long  pan,  well  greased ;  when  done  turn  out  on  bread-board, 
then  cover  the  top  with  jelly  and  roll  while  Avarm,  and  slice  aa 
needed. — Mrs.  A.  H. 

Rolled  (Telly   Cake. 

I  cupful  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1^  cupful  of  flour. 

§■  cupful  of  milk. 

1  egg. 
Two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  the  flour.  Bake 
in  a  lai'ge  sheet,  and  when  done,  spread  on  the  jelly  and  cut  the 
sheets  in  strips  tliree  or  four  inches  wide  and  roll  up.  If 
instead  of  jelly  a  sauce  is  made  and  spread  between  the  layers 
of  cake,  it  may  be  eaten  as  a  cream-pie  and  furnish  a  very  nice 
dessert.  For  the  sauce,  beat  together  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
of  corn-starch,  or  one  tablespoonful  flour  and  two  tablespoonfuls 


FILLTNG   FOB  JELLY   CAKE — MAKBLi;   CAXE.  337 

of  sugar.  Stir  into  a  half-pint  of  milk  and  boil  until  it  forms 
a  good  custard.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — 
Mrs.  M. 

Filling  for  Jelly   Cake. 
Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth, 
2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
Juice  and  grated  peel  of  2  oranges. 
Put  this  between   the  layers,  and  on  top  the  cakes. — Mrs. 

a  c. 

Oranges  cut  fine,  and  sweetened  and  mixed  with  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  also  chocolate,  is  iised  for  filling  jelly  cake.  Sponge  cake 
is  better  than  the  soda  recipe. — Mrs.   C.  C. 

Marble   Cake. 

Weigh  and  make  a  pound  cake ;  add  a  spoonful  of  yeast, 
take  one-third  part  of  the  batter  and  add  to  it  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mace,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  finely  ground. 

Put  in  your  pan,  first  a  layer  of  the  plain  batter,  then"  a  layer 
of  the  spiced,  finishing  with  the  plain.  The  batter  will  make 
three  layers  of  plain  and  two  of  spiced.  It  bakes  in  beautiful 
layers.— iJfrs.  G.  L.  T. 

Marble  or  Spiced  Cake. 

Make  up  a  pound  cake  and  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  yeast- 
powder.  Take  one-third  part  of  the  batter  and  add  to  it  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon  and  mace  each,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves  and  allspice  each,  one  niitmeg  finely  powdered.  Then 
grease  a  pan  and  put  in  first  a  layer  of  the  plain  batter,  then 
the  spiced,  alternately,  till  you  have  it  full,  finishing  with  the 
plain.     Bake  as  a  pound  cake. — Mrs.  C.  V.  McQ-. 

Marble  Cake.     Light  Pcurt. 
3  cupfuls  sugar. 
1  cupful  butter. 
29 


338  MAIIBLE   CAXB. 

1  cujjful  sour  cream. 
5  cupfuls  flour. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Dark  Part. 

2  cupfuls  brown  sugar. 
1  cupful  molasses. 

1  cupful  sour  cream. 
1  cupful  butter. 
5  cupfuls  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Yolks  of  8  eggs. 
1  whole  egg. 
1  wine-glassful  wine. 
Mixed  spices. 
Put  alternately  layers  of  each  kind  in  two-pound  moulds 

Marble   Cake.     Light  Part. 
1  cupful  white  sugar, 
^  cupful  butter. 
^  cupful  buttermilk. 
Whites  of  3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  soda, 

2  cupfuls  flour. 

Dark  Part. 
^  cupful  brown  sugar. 
\  cupful  butter, 
^  cupful  molasses, 
\  cupful  milk. 
^  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
^  teaspoonful  allspice. 

2  cupfuls  flour. 


MARBLE   OK   BISMARCK   CAKE.  339 

•J  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 
Yolks  of  3  eggs. 
Put  in  the  mould,  alternately,  tablespoonfuls  of  li^t  and  dark" 
batter.— J/r*.  B.  C.  K. 

Marble  or  Bismarck  Cake. 
3  cupfuls  white  sugar. 
1  cupful  butter. 

1  cupful  sour  cream,  or  buttermilk 
5  cupfuls  flour. 
Whites  of  8  eggs. 
1  small  spoonful  soda. 
This  is  for  the  white  batter. 

Dark  JBatter. 

2  cupfuls  coflfee  sugar. 

1  cupful  molasses. 

1  cupful  sour  cream. 

1  cupful  butter. 

5  cupfuls  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,  and  a  whole  one. 

1  wine-glassful  mixed  spices,  finely  powdered. 
Put  in  the  pan,  in  alternate  layers  of  light  and  dark  batter. 
Bake  quickly,  like  sponge  cake.     Ice  and  ornament  with  choco 
late  drops.     This  fills  a  two-pound  mould. 

Rose  or  Clouded  Cake. 
12  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  3. 
1  pound  flour. 

1  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  biitter. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  powdered  alum. 
1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 


340  SPICB  OAKB — CEEAM   CAKE. 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  cochineal,  dissolved  in  ^  cupful  boiling 
water. 

Having  dissolved  the  alum,  soda,  and  cream  tartar,  mix  with 
the  cochineal.  Stir  these  ingredients  in  nearly  one-third  of  the 
batter.  Pour  into  the  cake  mould  a  layer  of  white  batter,  and 
a  layer  of  red  batter,  alternately,  beginning  and  ending  with 
white  ;  three  layers  of  white  and  two  of  red.  This  is  an  orna- 
mental cake  to  cut  for  baskets. 

Spice  Cake. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Mix  2|-  teaspoonfuls  yeast  powder  in  2^  cupfuls  flour. 

1  cupful  brown  sugar. 

•^  cupful  syrup. 

■^  cupful  butter,  must  be  melted  after  being  measured. 

Stir  with  the  sugar  2^  teaspoonfuls  powdered  cloves. 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  powdered  allspice. 
The  spices  musb  be  put  in  the  flour,  the  syrup  added  after 
the  sugar  and  butter  are  stirred  together,  then  the  eggs   and 
milk,  and  lastly  the  flour.     Mix  the  above  alternately,  in  your 
pans,  after  having  them  buttered. — Jifrs.  Wl 

Cream  Cake.    . 

2  cupfuls  of  siigar. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour. 
•^  cupful  of  butter. 
3  eggs. 

1  cupful  of  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  melt  the  butter  and  ada  it  to 
the  eggs.  Add  the  sugar  and  cream  tartar  to  the  flour.  Pour 
it  all  together  in  shallow  pans  that  have  been  well  greased. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 


ORKAM  OAKK. OBEAM  FOB  SAME.         341 

While  baking  the  above,  get  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  butter  one-half  size  of  an  egg.  If 
you  use  cream  instead  of  milk,  you  can  omit  butter.  Break 
two  eggs  into  the  sugar,  beat  awhile,  then  add  flour  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Have  the  milk  on  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils, 
stir  the  mixture  in  it,  after  thinning  it  with  some  of  the  milk 
until  it  is  like  paste ;  cook  until  it  is  like  stifl"  starch.  Season 
freely  with  vanilla  when  cold,  and  spread  it  between  the  cakes 
as  jelly  cake  is  made. 

Grated  cocoanut  can  be  used  instead,  by  preparing  as  fol- 
lows :  one  large  cocoanut  grated,  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar. 
Pour  the  milk  from  the  nut  on  the  sugar ;  boil  it  two  or  three 
minutes,  first  mixing  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  if  not  soft 
enough,  add  some  sweet  milk.  Take  it  ofi"  the  fire,  stir  in  the 
grated  cocoanut,  and  spread  between  the  cakes. — Mrs.  JT.  JP.   G. 

Crea/m   Cake. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

1  cupful  of  sweet  milk. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

4  eggs. 

•^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  of  cream  tartar. 
Bake  in  four  jelly  pans. 

Cream   for  the  Same. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

^  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

^  cupful  of  flour. 

1  egg. 
Heat  the  milk  to  boiling  heat,  beat  the  egg  and  sugar  to- 
gether ;  take  a  little  milk,  and  make  a  smooth  paste  with  the 
flour,  and  stir  into  the  sugar  and  egg,  then  stir  all   into  the 


342  CAPITAL   CAKE — ^A   NICE   CUP   CAKE. 

milk.     Let  it  boil  until  thick,  then  spread  between  cakes. — 
Mrs.  A.  H. 

Capitai.  Cake.  (DelicioiM.) 
1  poimd  of  sugar. 

4  cupfuls  of  flour,  after  being  sifted. 
1  cupful  of  butter. 

1  cupful  of  morning's  milk. 
6  eggs  beaten  light. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk.     Flavor  with 
lemon  or  nutmeg. — Mrs.  M. 

Cup  Cake. 

5  cupfuls  of  flour. 

3  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

1^  cupfuls  of  butter. 

As  much  friiit  as  you  like. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  cupful  of  milk. 
3  eggs. 
1  nutmeg. 

1  wine-glass  wine  and  brandy  mixed. 
Mix  as  pound  cake. — Mrs.  J~.  W.  JT. 

Cup   Cake. 

1  cupful  of  butter. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
2^  cupfuls  of  flour. 
•^  cupful  of  milk. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  teaspoonful  yeast  powder. — Miss  M.    W. 

A  Nice  Cup  Cahi. 
6  eggs. 
4  cupfuls  of  flour. 


A    DELICIOUS    CAKE CAKE.  343 

3  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
1  cupful  of  butter. 
1  cupful  of  milk. 
1  teaspooi^ful  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Season  with  mace  and  nutmeg.     Bake  in  cups  or  little  tin 
pans. — Mrs.   Wm.  C.  Ji. 

A  Delicious  Cake. 
2^  pounds  flour. 
2  pounds  butter. 
24  eggs,  yolks  and  whites. 
12  ounces  almonds. 

2  tablespoonfuls  rose  water,  in  which  the  almonds  should  be 
beaten. 

2  wine-glasses  of  French  brandy. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  beaten  mace,  and  a  butter-plate  of 
preserved  lemon-peel. — i,  T. 

Deliciotis   Cake. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
I  cupful  of  butter. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour,  after  being  sifted. 
3  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  jelly-cake  pans,  and  between  eacli  layer  put  fruit  jelly, 
icing  of  chocolate  and  cocoanut  each.  This  quantity  will  bake 
five  thin  cakes. — Mis.  McG. 

Cake. 

1  quart  of  flour,  well  dried. 
1  cupful  of  biitter. 

3  cupfuls  granulated  sugar — ^it  is  better  than  pulverized, 
6  eggs,  well  beaten. 


344  CAKE CUSTABD   CAKE. 

Lemon,  or  other  seasoning. 

1  light  measure  of  both  Horsford's  powders,  or,  if  preferred, 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  ^  cup  of  buttermilk. 

Cream  of  tartar  takes  the  place  of  buttermilk,  when  used 
with  soda. — Mrs.  A. 

Cake   with  sauce.) 
5  eggs. 

1  pound  of  flour, 
f  pound  of  sugar. 
^  pound  butter. 
1  cup  of  cream. 
,  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs.  O.  -B. 


Cake  that  cannot  Fail. 


1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  flour, 
f  pound  butter. 
8  eggs. 

l.teacup  of  sweet  cream. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and   put  in 
the  cream.     Bake  in  pans  or  cups. — Mrs.  I*. 

Custard  Cakb. 
■^  cupful  butter. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 

7  eggs,  leaving  out  4  yolks. 

3  cupfuls  flour. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.     Bake  in  shallow  pans. 
For  the   custard  :  one  quart   of  milk,   let  come  to  a  boil, 

sweeten  it ;  take  the  four  yolks  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch, mix  with  a  little  of  the  milk  cold,  and  then  stir  it  grad- 


MBS.    GALt's   OAKE — KETrLK    OAKB.  345 

ually  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  continue  to  stir  until  done. 
Add  a  piece  of  butter  tlie  size  of  a  walnut ;  flavor  with  vanilla, 
and  put  between  the  cakes, ^Jffrs.  C.  B. 

Mrs.  Galt's  Cake. 

Whites  of  13  eggs,  yolks  of  3. 

\  pound  of  butter. 

1  pound  of  Hour. 

1  pound  of  sugar.     Season  to  taste. — Miss  E.  T 

Norfolk  Cake. 
Beat  to  a  cream  : 
1  teacup  of  butter. 
6  eggs. 

3  teacups  of  sugar. 
1  teacup  of  cream. 

4  teacups  of  flour. 
\  nutmeg. 

1  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

1  pound  raisins. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  cream. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Kettle  Cake. 
Have  a  large,  nice  brass  kettle  ready.     Set  it  on  a  few  warm 
embers,  not  with  any  fire  ;  put  into  the  kettle : 
12  eggs. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  butter. 
A  light  poun'd  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  of  mace. 
Rind  and  juice  of  a  large  lemon. 
Stir  all  the  materials  rapidly,  and  with  a  strong,  large  iron 
spoon  or  a  long  butter-ladle.     When  it  is   light,  which  will  be 
in  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  put  it  in  a  mould  and  bake 
as  common  pound  cake.     It  is  good  with 


346  paeson's  caeb — euggles'  cake. 

2  pounds  currants. 

2  pounds  raisins. 

^  pound  citron. 

1  glass  of  brandy. — Mrs.  M.  C.  Q. 

Parson's  Cake. 

5  eggs. 

1  large  teacupful  brown  sugar. 

4  cupfuls  flour. 

3  cupfuls  molasses. 

1^  cupful  butter. 

Ginger  and  spice  to  tlie  taste. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.     Bake. — Mrs 

D.E. 

Risen  Cake. 

1^  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 
9  ounces  butter. 

3  gills  milk. 
^  pint  yeast. 

4  eggs. 

Work  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Put  the  yeast  in  the 
flour  and  one-half  the  butter  and  sugar  the  overnight ;  then 
mix  the  milk  in,  and  beat  it  some  time.  Set  it  where  it  will 
rise.  In  the  morning,  when  well  risen,  mix  in  the  remainder 
of  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  the  eggs,  also  some  currants  or  rai- 
sins, or  both,  if  you  wish  them,  a  little  nutmeg  or  mace,  and 
beat  all  well  together  for  some  time.  Then  put  it  in  the  pan 
and  set  it  to  rise  again.  It  must  be  very  light  before  you  put 
it  in  the  oven.     It  requires  some  time  to  soak. — Mrs.  I.  IL 

Ruggles'  Cake. 
6  eggs. 

1^  cupful  butter. 
3  cupfuls  sugar. 


TIPSY   CAKE NAPLES   BISCUIT.  347 

4  cupfiils  flour. 
1  cupful  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Season  to  taste. — Mrs.  JR. 

Tipsy  Cake. 
Soak  sponge  cake  in  wine  and  water.     Make  a  custard  of  six 
eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  and    oour  over  it.     Reserve    the 
wliites,  beat  to  stiff  frotli,  to  put  over  last. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Velvet  Cake. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  sugar ;  creamed  together. 
One  teacup  of  cold  water,  with  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  it,  and  poured  in  the  butter  and  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  in  one  pound  of  flour. 

Mix  the  flour  with  butter,  sugar,  and  water,  and  beat  well. 
Take  five  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  then  beat 
them  together  three  minutes.  Season  as  you  like,  and  mix 
with  the  batter.  Beat  considerably  and  bake  half  an  hoar. — 
Mrs.  A.  B. 

Whortleberry  Cake. 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

1  pound  sugar. 

f  pound  butter. 

1  quart  flour. 

•^  pint  sifted  meal. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

A  little  mace  and  cinnamon. 
After  mixing,  stir  in  one  quart  of  the  berries,  so  as  not  to 
mash  them,  having  previously  dusted   them  with  flour.     Mix 
the  soda  with  one-half  pint  of  cream  or  milk. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

Naples  Biscuit. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 


348  ICING  —COLD    ICING. 

12  wliites,  and  10  yolks  of  eggs. 
2  glasses  wine. 
They  should  gradually  harden  in  the  oven  till  quite  crisp,  ana 
be  frequently  turned  in  the  pans. 

Icing. 
1^  pound  sugar. 
•^  pint  water. 
Boil  until  it  ropes.     Have  ready  the  whites  of  seven  eggs 
well  beaten,  pour  the  syrup  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  until  milk- 
warm.     Then  pub  in  tl\e  eggs,  and  beat  for  an  hour. — Mrs.   W. 

Hot  Icing. 
Dissolve  one   pint  powdered  sugar  in    two  or    three    table- 
spoonfuls  water,  and  boil. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  strong  froth  ;  add  the  hot 
sugar,  shirring  in  till  smooth.  Beat  about  two  minutes  and  fla- 
vor to  your  taste,  spread  on  the  cake,  and  put  in  a  hot  place. — 
Mrs.  P. 

Icing. 

Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  dissolved  and  boiled  in  a  small  teacup  of 
water. 

Then  strain  the  sugar  and  pour  it  into  the  egg,  beating  it 
hard  until  cool. 

Add  one-half  teaspoonful  lemon  acid. — JO.  D.  L. 

Boiled  Icing. 
1^  pound  cut  sugar,  or  double  refined. 
1  teacup  of  water. 
6  whites  of  eggs. 
Boil  the  sugar  to  candy  height ;  when  nearly  cold  put  in  eggs. 

—MissE'.P. 

Cold  Icing. 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 
1  pound  sugar. 


ICING   FOR   CAKE — BOILED   ICING.  349 

Beat  very  light  and  season  with  vanilla  or  lemon.  After 
beating  very  lightly,*  add  the  white  of  another  egg  and  it  will 
give  a  pretty  gloss  upon  the  icing. — Jliss  E.  JP. 

Icing  foe  Cake. 
Take  three  pounds  cut  or  best  quality  of  loaf  sugar,  dissolve 
it  in  a  small  (Quantity  of  water,  boil  to  candy  height  or  until  it 
ropes.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  thirteen  eggs  well  beaten. 
When  the  sugar  is  boiled  sufficiently,  pour  it  into  a  deep  bowl, 
occasionally  stirring  it  gently,  until  you  can  just  bear  your  fin- 
ger in  it ;  then  add  the  beaten  egg  all  at  once,  beating  it  very 
hard  for  half  an  hour,  when  it  is  ready  for  use.  Strain  into  the 
icing  the  juice  of  one  lemon  into  which  the  peel  has  been  grated, 
for  half  an  hour.— ilfrs.  F.  C.  W. 

ICINO. 

Break  into  a  dish  the  whites  of  four  eggs.  Whip  in  by 
degrees  one  and  one-quarter  pound  of  the  finest  loaf  sugar, 
powdered  and  sifted.  Beat  till  stifl'  and  smooth,  then  add  the 
strained  jiiice  of  a  large  lemon  with  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  lemon, 
and  beat  again  ;  in  all  beat  half  an  hour.  If  too  stiff  add  a  lit- 
tle more  white  of  egg.  Some  persons  put  it  on  with  a  knife, 
but  it  is  far  smoother  and  more  evenly  spread  over  iho,  cake  if 
put  on  with  a  large  spoon.  Dip  up  a  spoonful  of  the  icing  and 
pour  it  from  the  spoon  over  the  cake.  Pour  it  over  the  top  of 
the  cake  and  it  will  difiiise  itself  down  the  sides.  To  color  icing 
yelloWj  steep  the  I'ind  of  an  orange  or  lemon  in  the  lemon  juice 
before  straining  it  into  the  icing.  To  make  it  pink,  put  in 
strawberry  or  cranberry  juice  with  the  lemon  juice. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Icing  for  Cakes. 
Whites  of  six   eggs  to  one  pound  sugar,  or  one  egg  to  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. — Mrs.  Dr.  tT. 

Boiled  Icing. 
One  and  one-fourth  pound  loaf  sugar,  added  to  one  teacuf 


350  SOFT   GINGEB   OAKE — GINGER   LOAF. 

of  water  and  boiled  to  a  thick  syrup.  Then  strain  it  through 
thin  musKn,  and,  while  hot,  stir  into  it  th*e  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Then  beat  in  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
season  with  a  little  oil  of  lemon.  If  too  thin,  add  a  little  sugar ; 
if  too  stiff,  add  a  little  more  white  of  egg. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Soft  Ginger  Cake. 
1  cupful  butter, 
1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  molasses. 

1  cupful  sour  cream. 

3  eggs. 

\  tablespoonful  of  soda. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger. 

Flour  until  the  spoon  will  almost  stand  alone.     Cloves  and 
cinnamon  to  taste.     (This  is  very  good.) — Mrs.  JT.  F. 

Soft  Gingerbread. 

3  eggs. 

1  .teacup  butter. 
\  teacup  ginger. 
1  teacup  molasses. 
3  teacups  sifted  flour. 
1  large  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 

1  small    teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  ^  teacup  of  sour 
cream. — Mrs.  McQ. 

Ginger  Loaf. 
6  eggs. 

4  cupfuls  molasses. 
2  cupfuls  of  butter. 
6  cupfuls  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

Cinnamon  to  your  taste. — Mrs.  P.  "0^! 


bi8bn  gingekbread — molasses  oaeb.  351 

Risen  Gingerbread. 

2  pounds  flour. 

1  pound  nice  brown  sugar. 

1  pound  butter. 

6  eggs. 

■^  pint  molasses. 

3  ounces  ginger. 
Bake  in  a  large  cake. — Mrs.  A.  T. 

Lightened  Gingerbread. 
1^  pound  of  flovir. 
•J-  pound  butter. 
^  pound  sugar. 
6  eggs. 

6  races  of  white  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  pint  molasses. 
To  be  baked  in  tins  or  a  pan. — Mrs.  I.  H. 

Ginger  Cup  Cake. 
3  eggs. 

1  cupful  molasses. 
1  cupful  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter  (balf  lard  will  answer). 

\  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful  buttermilk. 
1  tablespoonful  ground  ginger. 
2^  cupfuls  flour. 
Mi^  as  other  cake.     Some  like  allspice. — Mn.  H.  D. 

Molasses  Cake. 

5  light  cupfuls  flour. 

6  eggs. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 
2  cupfuls  molasses. 
1  cupful  butter. 


352  MOLASSES   CAKE — BLACK,    OK   MOLASSES   CAKE. 

1  cupful  cream,  with  one  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
2  teaspoonfuls  gi'ound  ginger. 

All  well  beaten  together.     Bake  as  pound  cake. — Miss  £J.  T 


3folasses  Cake, 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  pint  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

flour 

enough  to  make  it  as  thick   as  ordinary  cake. 

•  a 

Molasses  Pound  Cake. 

•^  pound  butter. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 

2  cupfuls  molasses. 

6  cupfuls  flour. 

1  cupful  cream. 

4  eggs. 

-Miss 


Some  cloves  and  nutmeg ;  add  lemon  to  taste. 

—Mrs.  Br.  S. 

Black,  or  Molasses  Cake. 

1  quart  flour. 
»  eggs. 

i  pint  molasses. 
^  pound  biTtter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  1  teacup  sour  milk. 

—Mrs.  T.  C. 


8\tAI.L   CAKES — DROP   CAKE.  353 


SMALL   CAKES. 


Albany  Cakes. 
1^  pound  flour. 
1:^  pound  brown  sugar. 
1^  pound  butter. 
I  tablespoonful  lard. 
4  tablespoonfuls  powdered  cinnamon. 
1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  milk. 
R  1.1  on  extra  flour  very  thin.     Dip  the  face  of  each  cake  in 
granulated  sugar.      Bake  slowly  in  greased  pans. — 3frs.  It.  M. 

Scotch  Cakes.  (  Yery  nice.) 

2  pounds  flour. 
1^  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  butter. 

6  eggs,  beaten  together. 

3  nutmegs. — Mrs.  P.  Mc  G. 

SwBET  Crackers. 
4  eggs. 

4  cupfuls  sugar. 
^  pound  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  cupful  sour  cream. 

Pounded  cinnamon  and  grated  nutmeg  for  flavoring. 
Sufiicieut  flour  for  a  soft  dough. 
Roll  thin  and  cut  it  with  tin  shapes,   and  bake  quickly. — 

Mti'.  S. 

Drop  Cake. 
6  eggs. 

1  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  in  1  cupful  sour  cream. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  in  1  quart  flour. 

—Mrs.  S. 
■60 


351        ckeam  cakes — ^maegueritks. 

Cream  Cakes. 

Beat  up  one  egg,  add  to  it  half  a  cupful  sugar,  half  a  cupfiJ  flour, 
mixing  thoroughly.  While  this  is  being  done,  put  on  the  fire 
half  a  pint  milk  ;  when  it  boils,  stir  in  the  eggs,  sugar,  and 
flour  mixture,  then  add  a  piece  of  butter,  half  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Stir  all  the  time  until  it  is  of  the  desired  consistency,  which  will 
be  in  £  few  minutes.  When  cold,  add,  and  thoroughly  mix,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

For  the  cake :  put  one  tumblerful  of  water  to  boil,  and  then 
add  one-quarter  pound  butter ;  when  melted,  put  in  one  and 
one-half  tumblerful  of  flour.  Stir  in,  mixing  thoroughly,  being 
careful  not  to  burn  it.  It  is  sufficiently  cooked  by  the  time  it 
is  thoroughly  mixed.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool, 
stir  in  five  unbeaten  eggs,  mixing  one  at  a  time.  It  will  then 
be  the  consistency  of  stifi"  paste.  Drop  on  buttered  tins,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Cut  the  side 
and  insert  the  cream. — Mrs.  H.  M. 

Marguerites. 
Cream  together  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pound  of  butter 
very  light.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  sift  one  and  one-half 
pound  of  flour  into  the  eggs,  butter,  and  sugar  ;  one  teaspoonful 
of  mixed  spices,  one-half  glassful  of  rose  water.  Stir  the  whole 
well,  and  roll  it  on  the  board  till  it  is  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut 
in  cakes  and  bake  quickly.  Wlien  cold,  spi'ead  the  surface  of 
each  cake  with  marmalade.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  light, 
and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  them  as  thick  as  icing. 
Flavor  it  with  lemon,  and  put  it  on  toj)  of  each  cake.  Put  the 
cakes  in  the  oven,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  of  a  pale  brown,  take 
them  out.— J/tss  31.  G.  L. 

Marguerites. 
Two  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  and  five  ounces  of  sugar,  one 
pound  and  five  ounces  of  biitter,  eight  eggs.     Rub  together  the 
buttei    and  sugar  till  perfectly  light ;   beat  the  eggs  till  very 


MARGUERITES,  OR  JELLY  CAKES — SHREWSBURY  OAKE.      355 

tbiok,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  six  eggs  for  the  iciug.  Sift  the 
flour  into  the  eggs,  butter  and  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed 
spices  (cinnaraon,  mace,  and  nutmeg),  half  a  glass  of  rose  water. 
Stir  the  whole  well  together,  and  roll  it  on  your  paste-board 
about  half  an  inch  thick ;  then  cut  out  the  cakes  and  bake 
them  a  few  minutes.  When  cold,  spread  the  surface  of  each 
cake  with  marmalade  or  jam.  Beat  the  whites,  left  out,  very 
light,  and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  them  as  thick 
as  icing.  Season  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and  with  a  spoon  put  it 
on  each  cake.     Put  the  cakes  in  the  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  II. 


Marguerites,  or  Jelly  Cakes. 

Rub  together  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  till  per- 
fectly light.  Beat  six  eggs  till  very  thick,  leaving  out  the 
whites.  Sift  one  and  a  half  pound  of  Hour  into  the  eggs, 
butter,  and  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spices  (cinnamon, 
mace,  and  nutmeg),  and  half  a  glass  of  rose  water.  Stir  the 
whole  well,  and  roll  it  on  the  paste-board  about  one-quarter 
iuch  thick.  Then  cut  oiit  the  cakes  and  bake  them  a  few 
minutes.  When  cold,  spread  the  surface  of  each  cake  with 
peach  jam  or  any  marmalade.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
very  light,  and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  them  as 
thick  as  icing.  Flavor  it  with  lemon  or  rose  water  and  with  a 
spoon  put  it  on  each  cake,  high  in  the  centre.  Put  the  cakes 
in  the  oven,  and  as  soon  as  they  are  of  a  pale  brown  take  them 
o\x.t.~Mrs.  I.  H. 

Shrewsbury  Cake, 

1  pound  flour. 

12  ounces  sugar. 
12  ounces  butter. 

2  eggs. 

Add  two  tablespoonfuls  rose  water,  or  two  teaspoon  fnls  beaten 
mace.    Roll  and  bake  in  tin  sheets  or  in  an  oven. — Mrs.  T. 


356  maoasoons — jumblbs. 

Macaroons. 
Blancn  and  pound  one  pound  of  sweet  almonds  with  a  little 
rose  water  ;  whip  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  to  a  froth  ;  add  one 
pound  sugar ;  beat  some  time.  Add  the  almonds ;  mix  well. 
Drop  on  buttered  paper,  sift  sugar  over  them,  and  bake 
quickly. 

Jumbles. 
1  pound  flour, 
f  pound  butter. 
1  pound  sugar. 
3  eggs.     Flavor  with  mace. 
A  delicious  cake. — Mrs.  A.  T. 

Jackson  Jumbles. 
3  teacups  sugar. 
1  teacup  lard. 
6  teacups  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  in  one  cup  of  sour  cream. 
3  eggs. 

The  grated  rind  of  one  or  two  lemons,  or  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg.    JRoU  out  and  bake. — Mrs.  H.  IS. 

Jumbles. 
3  pounds  flour. 

2  pounds  sugar. 
1  pound  butter. 
8  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

A  little  milk  if  the  eggs  are  not  enough. — Mrs.  M.  E. 

Jumbles. 
Hub  one  pound  butter  into  one  and  a  quarter  pound  flour  ; 
beat  four  eggs  with  one  and  a  quarter  pound  sugar,  very  light ; 
mix  well  with    the   flour.     Add  one  nutmeg  and  a  glass  of 
brandy. — Mrs.  J.  W. 


ooffeb  cake — strawbekby  oajkes.  357 

Coffee  Cake. 

1  teacup  of  molasses. 

1  cupful  of  good  liquid  coffee. 

1  cupful  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter. 

4  cupfuls  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

•^  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  pound  of  raisins. 

^  pound  of  citron. 

3  eggs. 

^  wine-glass  of  brandy. — Mrs.  tT.  H.  F, 

Cinnamon  Cakes. 

1  pound  butter. 

2  pounds  flour. 

1  pound  sugar. 

Six  eggs,  leaving  out  two  yolks,  which  you  will  beat  up 
with  a  little  rose  water,  and,  with  a  feather,  spread  on  the 
cakes ;  then  strew  cinnamon  and  sugar  on  them,  and  blanched 
almonds.  Lay  them  on  tins,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven. — 
Mrs.  I.  H. 

Cinnamon  Cakes. 

2  quarts  flour. 

6  or  8  eggs,  the  yolks  only. 

\  pound  butter. 

\  pound  sugar. 

1  spoonful  cinnamon. — Mrs.  D^'.  H,  JS. 

Strawberry  Cakes. 

2  pounds  flour. 

1  pound  loaf  sugar. 


ii5S  HOLMOKOFT   CAKE— COOKIES. 

1  pound  butter. 
6  eggs. 

Mace  and  a  little  wine  to  flavor. 
Bake  quickly. — Mrs.  A.  T. 

HoLMCROFT  Cake. 

1  coffee-cup  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  not  melted. 

1  teacup  of  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  or  1  whole  egg. 

2  coffee-cups  of  Hour. — Mrs.  N. 

Nothings. 
Take  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  cream,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  flour  to  make  the  dough  very  stiff;  work  it  well  and 
roll  it  very  thin.      Cut  the  size   of  a  saucer.      Fry  in  lard  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.   T.   C. 

Sugar  Cakes. 
Mix  four  cupfuls  of  sugar  with  eight  cupfuls  of  flour  and  one 
large  spoonful  of  coriander-seed ;  add  one  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  lard,  six  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream  oi 
milk,  one  teaspoouful  of  soda. — 3Irs.  Dr.  S. 


Cookies. 


3  eggs. 


1  cupful  of  butter  or  lard. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugai\ 

6  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour. 
1  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  with  the  flour. 
Cream  the  butter  with  one   cup  of  the  sugar,  beat  the  eggs 

separately  and  put  iuto  the  yolks  the  remaining  cup  of  sugar ; 
add  this  to  the  buttei-,  and  put  in  whites  and  flour  last.  EoU 
thin  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  F.  F.  F. 


gl0u0k8tee  0ake8 — orullebs.  359 

Gloucester  Cakes. 
6  eggs. 

1  quart  of  milk. 
1  quart  of  flour. 

A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Bf'^t  the  eggs  very  light;  mix  into  them  the  flour  and  milk 
alternately,  and  beating  it  until  perfectly  smooth,  add  a  little 
salt.     Melt  the  butter  and  stir  it  into  the  batter.     Bake  in 
small  moulds. — Mrs.  tT.  D. 

Tea  Cakes. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 

1  small  teacup  of  lard. 
1  small  teacup  of  butter. 

3  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

1  cupful  of  cream  (sour  is  best). 

2  small  teaspoonfuls  of  soda. 

1  grated  nutmeg. 

Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  — - 
Mrs.  F.  C.W. 

Crullers. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 
2  cups  of  sugar. 
6  eggs. 

2  spoonfuls  of  soda. 

4  spoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 

A  little  salt. 

Rub  the  cream  tartar,  flour,  and  sugar  together ;  wet  with 

sweet  milk  qiiite  soft.     Have  the  lai'd  several  inches  deep  in 

the  pot  or  pan  you  cook  in,  and   when  boiling  lay  in  enough 

crullers  just  to  cover  the  bottom.     They  must  be  quite  thin,  and 


360  TEA   CAKES — A   DELICATE   CAKE   FOE  TEA. 

■when  brown  on  the  lower  side,  turn  over  with  a  fork.     They 
are  more  convenient  to  turn  with  a  hole  in  the  centre. — Mrs.  S. 

Tea  Cakes. 

2  quarts  of  flour. 

3  cupfuls  of  sugar. 
]  cup  of  butter. 

5  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet 

milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

Season  with  lemon  or  nutmeg. — Mrs.  S. 

Delicate  Tea  Cakes. 
Whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth. 
1  cujjful  of  pulverized  sugar. 
\  cupful  of  sweet  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
\  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
2-^  cupfuls  of  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  of  almonds. 
\  cupful  of  melted  butter. — Mrs.  H. 

Tartaric  Cakes. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  the  whites  whipped  to  a  froth, 
three  full  cups  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one 
spoonful  lard,  one  and  a  half  pound  of  flour,  leaving  two  spoon- 
fuls to  roll  with.  Mix  all  well  together.  Dissolve  one  tea- 
spoonful soda  and  three-quarters  teaspoonful  tartaric  acid  iu  a 
little  cream.  First  mix  the  soda  with  the  dough,  then  the  acid. 
Soason  with  mace  oi  wine.     They  will  rise  very  much. — Mrs.  D. 

A  Delicate  Cake   for  Tea. 
Beat  (he  yolks  and   whites  of  two  eggs  separately ;   to   the 
yolks  add  two  coffee-cups  of  sugar,  and  two  cupfuls  of  sweet 


LEMON  JUMBLES — ^DELICIOUS   SMALL   CAKES.  361 

milk ;    then  four   tablespoonfuls   butter    creamed ;    next    the 
white  of  the  eggs,  lastly,  four  cupfuls  of  flour  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour. 
Bake  in  shallow  pans. — Mrs.  G.  V,  Mc  G. 

Lemon  Jumbles. 

1  egg. 

1  teacupful  sugar. 

^  teacupful   of  butter. 

3  teaspoonfuls  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  small  lemons  ;  juice  of  two  and  grated  rind  of  one. 
Mix  rather  stifi".     Roll  and  cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter. — 

Mrs.  W. 

BONNEFEADAS. 

Make  a  rich  paste  with  one  quart  flour  ;  roll  it  out  very  thin, 
first  dividing  it  in  two  pieces,  spread  it  with  butter,  washed  and 
creamed,  "  A "  sugar,  and  pulverized  cinnamon.  Roll  it  up, 
cut  it  in  pieces  one  inch  wide ;  put  them  in  a  pan  with  the 
whole  side  down ;  sprinkle  over  them  sugar,  butter,  and  cinna- 
mon. Bake  quickly.  Take  them  out  of  the  pan  while  hot. — 
Mrs.  Col.  A.  L. 

Delicious  Small  Cakes. 
Yolks  of  6  eggs. 
1  light  pound  flour. 
\  pound  butter. 
1  spoonful  lard. 
1  pound  sugar. 
These  cakes  are  better  without  soda  and  of  the  consistency 
of  Shrewsbury  cakes.    Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  strong 
froth ;  weigh  one  pound  of  the  best  "  A  "  sugar,  put  it  in  a  tin 
can  with  three  wine-glasses  of  water.  Let  it  boil  slowly,  till  it  be- 
gins to  rope,  or  rather,  when  a  little  of  it  will  cool  on  a  plate, 

31 


362  WUFEBB — GINGEK  CAKES. 

like  it  would  begin  to  candy.  Then  pour  the  boiling  sugar 
gradually  to  the  white  of  egg  ;  beat  it  well  till  it  begins  to  thick- 
en and  to  cool  somewhat,  then  beat  into  the  icing  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  cinnamon,  and  ice  over  the  Kttle  cakes,  using 
a  stiff  feather  for  the  purpose.  You  can  add  the  other  unbeaten 
whites  of  eggs,  with  an  addition  of  sugar,  to  make  more  small 
cakes. — Mrs.  M.  C.  C. 

Wafers. 
4  ounces  butter. 

4  ounces  sugar. 

5  ounces  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  glass  of  wine. 

A  little  mace  and  nutmeg. — Mrs.  Dr.  t/I 

Wafers. 
4  spoonfuls  flour. 
4  spoonfuls  sugar. 
4  spoonfuls  cream. 
1  spoonful  butter. 
Orange  peel,  mace,  and  nutmeg. 
Prepare  as  for  pound  cake.     Bake  in  wafer  irons,  rolling  them 
while  hot. 

Dimples. 

JJeat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  three-quarters  pound  of 
sugar  till  well  mixed.  Stir  in  blanched  almonds,  cut  fine. 
Drop  on  tins  and  bake  in  a  cool  oven. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

GiNGEB  Cakes. 
1  teacup  of  butter. 
1  teacup  brown  sugar. 
1  teacup  sour  milk. 
7  cupfuls  flour. 


GINGHK  SNAPS — GINGEE  BUOTTO.  863 

1^  teacup  molasses. 

1^  teaspoonfuls  soda. — Mrs.  C.  -B. 

Ginger  Snaps. 
1  pint  of  molasses. 
1  teacup  brown  sugar. 
1  teacup  -•of  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
Beat  the  molasses  till  it  looks  light,  then  put  it  in  the  sugar  ; 
next  pour  in  the  hot  butter  and  lard,  one  egg  beaten  light,  one 
teacup  ground  ginger. 

Have  the  mixture  milk-warm ;  work  flour  in  briskly.     Roll 
them  and  bake  quickly. — Jifiss  iV.  8.  L. 

'     .  Ginger  Cakes. 

1  dozen  eggs. 

2  pounds  of  flour. 
1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  sugar. 

1  piat  molasses. 

1  small  teacup  of  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. — Mrs.  Col.  /S. 

Cheap  Ginger  Cakes. 

3  pints  of  flour. 

1  large  spoonful  of  lard. 

2  large  spoonfuls  of  ginger. 

1  dessertspoonful  of  soda  in  a  pint  of  molasses. 

—Mrs.  H.  S. 
Ginger  Bunns. 
f  pound  butter,  ^  pound  sugar,  rubbed  to  a  cream. 
•^  nutmeg. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 
Stir  all  together,  then  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  stir  in  one 
pound  of  flour  and  moisten  with  sweet  milk,  until  it  can  be 
easily  worked.     Roll  out  and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  H.  J). 


364  mola8be8  cakes — drop  ginoik  0aeb8. 

Molasses  Cakes. 
7  cupfuls  of  flour. 
2  cupfuls  of  molasses. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  of  butter. 
1  cupful  of  sour  milk. 

1  even  tablespoonful  of  s«da. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger. 

Let  the  dough  be  as  soft  as  you  can  conveniently  handle  it 
Bake  in  a  moderately  quick  oven. — Mrs.  JR.  L. 

Spice  Nuts. 
1  pound  sugar. 
1  pound  flour. 
1  pint  molasses.     Mix  well. 
\  pound  butter. 
3  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 
1  tablespoonful  allspice. 
1  tablespoonful  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  small  drops  or  cakes. — Mrs.  Dr,  J", 

Ginger  Snaps. 
1  cupful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  in  1  pint  boiling  molasses. 
Stir  and  let  it  cool :  add  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  j 
roll  thin  and  bake. — Mrs.  S.  B. 

Drop  Ginger  Cakes. 

1  poimd  butter,  cream  it  as  for  pound  cake. 

2  packed  quarts  flour. 
1  pound  sugar. 

1  pint  molasses. 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. — Mrs.  JV. 


PUDDINGS PLUM   PUDDING.  365 


PUDDINGS. 

The  directions  given  for  cake  apply  likewise  to  puddings. 
Always  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  separately  and 
very  light,  and  add  the  whites  just  before  baking  or  boiling. 
All  puddings  (except  those  risen  with  yeast),  should  be  baked 
immediately  after  the  ingredients  are  mixed.  Thick  yellow 
earthenware  dishes  are  better  than-  tin  for  baking  puddings, 
on  several  accounts.  One  is  that  the  pudding,  to  be  good,  must 
be  baked  principally  from  the  bottom,  and  tin  burns  more  easily 
than  earthenware.  Another  reason  is,  that  the  acids  employed 
in  some  puddings  corrode  and  discolor  tin.  Garnish  the  pud- 
ding with  sifted  white  sugar,  and  with  candied  or  preserved 
orange  or  lemon  peel. 

In  boiling  a  pudding,  cold  water  should  never  be  added. 
Keep  a  kettle  of  hot  water  to  replenish  the  water  in  the  pot  as 
it  boils  away.  As  soon  as  the  pudding  is  done,  remove  it  from 
the  boiling  water.  A  decrease  in  heat  whilst  cooking,  makes 
boiled  pudding  sodden,  and  makes  baked  pudding  fall.  The 
best  sauce  for  a  boiled  pudding  is  cold  sauce  made  of  the  frothed 
whites  of  eggs,  butter,  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  French 
brandy,  while  for  a  baked  pudding,  a  rich,  boiled  wine  sauce  is 
best. 

Plum  Pudding. 
3  dozen  eggs. 

3  pounds  baker's  bread,  stale,  and  grated  fine. 
3  pounds  suet. 
3  pounds  brown  sugar. 
1  pound  sliced  citron. 

3  pounds  cux'rants. 

4  pounds  seeded  raisins. 

^  ounce  nutmeg,  and  the  same  of  mace,  cloves,  and  cinnamon. 

Half  pint  wine. 

Half  pint  French  cooking  brandy. 


366  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Mix  and  divide  into  six  parts.     Tie  each  part  in  a  twilled 

cotton  cloth,  put  them  in  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  four 
hours.  Then  hang  them  in  the  air  to  dry  a  day  or  two.  Keep 
them  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

When  you  wish  to  use  one,  it  mu^t  be  boiled  an  hour  before 
dinner.  Serve  with  rich  sauce.  It  will  keep  six  months  or  a 
YQzx.—Mrs.  T.  M.  O. 

JPlum  Pudding. 

10  eggs. 

1  pound  chopped  suet. 

1  pound  seeded  raisins. 

1  pound  currants. 

1  pound  stale  bread  crumbs. 

•^  pound  citron. 

1  nutmeg. 

1  wine-glassful  wine. 

1  wine-glassful  brandy. 

•^  pound  brown  sugar. 
Beat  the  eggs  light,  add  the  sugar  and  spices,  stir  in  the 
suet  and  bread  crumbs,  add  the  fruit  by  degrees,  then  the  wine 
and  brandy.  Pour  into  a  well-floured  bag,  leaving  a  third  as 
much  room  as  the  mixture  occupies,  for  swelling.  Put  into 
a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  four  hours.  Dip  the  bag  into 
cold  water  when  ready  to  turn  out  the  pudding,  to  prevent  it 
from  sticking. — Mrs.  E.  S. 

Plv/m  Pudding. 
At  sunrise,  sift  a  quart  of  the  best  flour ;  rub  into  it  an 
Irish  potato  mashed,  free  from  lumps.  Put  in  it  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  half  teacup  of  yeast.  Add  six  eggs,  beaten 
separately,  and  enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead 
half  an  hour  without  intermission.  In  winter,  set  it  in  a  warm 
place,  in  summer  set  it  in  a  cool  place  to  rise.  If  dinner  is 
wanted   at  two    o'clock,  knead   into  this  at  one  o'clock,  half 


EIOH  PLUM  PUDDINQ ENGLISH   PLTTM   PUDDING.        367 

pound  of  butter,  two  pounds  of  stoned  raisins,  cut  up,  and  a 
grated  nutmeg.  Work  very  little,  just  enougli  to  mix.  "Wet 
a  thick  cloth,  flour  it  and  tie  it  loosely  that  the  pudding  may 
have  room  to  rise.  Put  it  in  a  kettle  of  milk-warm  water, 
heating  slowly  until  it  boils.  Boil  one  hour.  Serve  with  wine 
sauce. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Rich  Plum  Pudding. 

Nine  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth. 

Add  flour  sufl5cient  to  make  a  thick  batter,  free  from  lumps. 
Then  add  one  pint  of  new  milk  and  beat  well.  Afterwards  add 
the  following  ingredients,  in  small  quantities  at  a  time,  keeping 
it  well  stirred. 

Two  pounds  stoned  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  well  washed, 
picked,  and  dried.  One-quarter  pound  bitter  almonds,  blanched 
and  divided  ;  three-quarters  pound  brown  sugar  ;  three-quarters 
pound  beef  suet,  chopped  fine ;  one  nutmeg,  grated  fine ;  one 
teaspoonful  of  ground  allspice,  the  same  of  mace  and  cinna- 
mon. 

This  pudding  should  be  mixed  several  days  before  cooking, 
then  well  beaten,  and  more  milk  should  be  added,  if  required. 
Make  this  into  two  puddings,  put  in  cotton  bags  and  boil  four 
hours.  By  changing  the  bags,  and  hanging  in  a  cool,  dry  place, 
they  will  keep  six  months  and  be  the  better  for  it.  Steam  and 
sei-ve  with  sauce  made  as  follows  : 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  of  butter.  Beat  well  together. 
Break  an  egg  in  and  mix  well.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  wine 
or  brandy,  and  serve  immediately. — Mrs.  F. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 
1  pound  of  stale  bread  grated. 
1  pound  currants. 
1  pound  sugar. 

1  pound  of  suet  chopped  as  fine  as  flour. 
\  of  a  poimd  of  raisins,  and  the  same  of  citron. 


368  CHRISTMAS   PLUM   PUDDING PLUM   PUDDING. 

When  ready  to  boil,  wet  the  above  with  ten  eggs,  weL 
beaten,  two  wine-glasses  of  wine  and  the  same  of  brandy. 
Grate  the  rinds  of  two  lemons,  pare  and  chop  them  and  beat  all 
well  together.  Then  dip  a  strong  cloth  in  boiling  water  and 
wring  it  dry.  Lay  it  on  a  waiter,  greasing  well  with  butter. 
Put  it  in  a  large  bowl  and  pour  the  pudding  in,  putting  two 
sticks  in  the  cloth  across  each  other,  and  tying  below  the  sticks. 
Have  the  water  boiling  and  throw  in  the  pudding  as  soon  as 
tied.  Put  a  plate  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot  and  boil  four 
hours. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding. 

Half  a  loaf  of  bread  (grated). 

1  pound  currants. 

2  pounds  stoned  raisins. 
1  pound  chopped  suet. 

6  eggs,  and  2  pieces  of  citron  cut  up. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  two  cups  of  flour  and  some 
milk,  then  stir  in  the  other  ingredients,  adding  a  little  salt  and 
ginger.  If  too  stiff,  add  move  milk.  The  water  must  be  boil- 
ing when  the  pudding  is  put  in.  It  will  take  two  hours  to 
cook.— Mrs.  M.  E.  J.  B. 

Plum  Pudding. 

8  eggs  (the  yolks  and  whites  beaten  very  light). 

1  pint  of  suet  chopped  fine, 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk. 

1-^  pint  stoned  raisins,  rubbed  in  flour, 

1  quart  of  bread  crumbs  I'ubbed  till  very  fine. 

Half  pint  citron  sliced  thin, 

1  teacup  of  light  brown  sugar. 
Grease  and  flour  your  mould,  pour  your  puddir-g  in,  boU  two 
hours,  and  eat  with  rich  boiled  sauce,  made  of  sugar,  butter, 
wine,  and  nutmeg, — Mrs.  B.  C.  C. 


BBCrPB  rOK    A    SIMPLER  PLUM   PUDDING.  369 

Kecipe  for  a  simpler  Plum  Pudding, 
3  cupfuls  flour. 
1  cupful  raisins. 
1  cupful  brown  sugar. 
1  cupful  buttermilk. 
\  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  of  suet,  or  half  a  cup  of  butter. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Boil  and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  P. 

Economical  Plum  Pudding. 

4  cupfuls  flour. 
1^  cup  of  suet. 

1  cupful  milk. 

2  cupfuls  raisins. 

1  cupful  molasses. 

2  eggs,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Boil  four  hours. — 3frs.  L. 

Another  Recipe  for  the  Same. 
One  bowl  of  raisins,  one  of  currants  ;  one  of  bread  crumbs  ; 
one  bowl  of  eggs ;  one  of  brown  sugar  ;  one  of  suet ;  citron  at 
pleasure.     Boil  four  hours. — Mrs.  L. 

Original  Pudding. 
Reserve  a  portion  of  light  dough  intended  for  breakfast. 
Set  it  in  a  cool  place,  and  four  hours  before  dinner,  roll  thin, 
without  kneading.  Sprinkle  thickly  over  it,  first,  a  layer  of 
sliced  citron,  then  a  layer  of  seeded  raisins.  Roll  up  and  lay 
on  a  buttered  bread-pan  till  very  light.  Then  either  boil  in  a 
cloth,  prepared  by  wetting  first  and  then  flouring  (the  pudding 
being  allowed  room  for  rising  in  this  cloth),  or  set  the  pan  in 
tht-  stove  and  bake.  In  the  latter  case,  after  it  becomes  a  lighi 
brown,  it  must  be  covered  with  a  buttered  paper. 
16* 


370  8TBAMED   PUDDING AMHEBST  PUDDING. 

Dough  for  French  rolls  or  muffin  bread  is  especially  adapted 
Co  this  kind  of  pudding." — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Steameb  Pudding. 
\  pound  of  seeded  raisins. 
4  eggs. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour. 

1  cupful  of  sour  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

Let  it  steam  two  hours.  Have  the  water  boiling  fast,  and 
don't  open  till  it  has  boiled  two  hours. — Mrs.  Dr.  JT. 

Boiled  Pudding. 

One  pound  of  flour,  twelve  ounces  of  butter,  eight  ounces  ot 
sugar,  twelve  ounces  of  fruit  (either  dried  cherries  or  two  kinds 
of  preserves).     A  little  mace  and  wine. 

Boil  like  a  plum  pudding. 

Sauce  for  the  Same. 
One  pint  of  cream,  large  spoonful  of  butter,  one  glass  of  wine. 
Season  to  the  taste.     Let  it  cook,  but  not  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs. 
A.F. 

Another  Sauce. 
Cream  half  a  pound  of  butter ;  work  into  it  six  tablespoon- 
fuls  of   sugar;  beat  in  one  egg,  add  a  wine-glass  of  wine  or 
brandy,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg.     Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  as 
soon  as  it  boils,  serve  it  for  the  table. — Mrs.  F: 

Amherst  Puddiko. 
3  cupfuls  of  flour. 
1  cupful  of  suet. 
1  cupful  of  milk. 


BOILED  PUDDING   OP   ACID   FEUIT — TKOY   PUDDING.      371 

1  cupful  of  molasses. 

2  cupfuls  of  raisins. 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

.1  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  the  same  of  cinnamon. 
■^  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  milk. 
To  be  boiled  three  hours  in  a  coarse  bag,  and  eaten  with  witie 
sauce. — Mrs.  W. 

Boiled  Pudding  of  Acid  Fruit. 

1  quart  of  flour  (or  the  weight  in  stale  bread). 

2  eggs. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

^  pound  of  dried  fruit. 
If  apples  are  used,  plump  them  out  by  pouring  boiling  water 
on  them,  and  let  them  cool  before  using  them.     Season  with 
mace  and   nutmeg,  and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  T. 

Cherry   Pudding. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour. 
2  cupfuls  of  fruit. 
1  cupful  of  molasses. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  put  in  the  flour. 

1  cupful  of  suet. 

Mix  well,  put  in  a  buttered  mould,  and  boil  three  hours  and  a 

half — Jfm  E.  T. 

Troy  Pudding. 

1  cupful  of  mOk. 

1  cupful  of  molasses. 

■^  cupful  of  currants. 

\  cupful  of  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  the  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves. 


372  SWEET  POTATO   KOLL — BOILED   PUDDING. 

Enough  flour  to  make  it  as  stiflf  as  soft  gingerbread.  Put  it 
in  a  mould,  and  steam  four  hours.  If  no  steamer  is  at  hand, 
tie  the  mould  in  a  cloth  and  boil  four  hours. 

Sauce :  One  egg  (frothed),  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar; 
one  cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  boiled  with  a  small  piece  of  butter. 
Add  wine,  if  you  Uke. — 3Irs.  W.  C  JR. 

Sweet  Potato  Roll. 
Prepare  pastry  as  for  cherry  roll.  Spread  it  out,  and  cover 
it  with  layers  of  boiled  sweet  potatoes,  thoroughly  mashed. 
Pour  over  it  melted  butter  and  sugar,  highly  flavored  with 
lemon.  Roll  it  up,  boil  in  a  bag,  and  serve  with  butter  and 
sugar  sauce. — Mrs.  Dr.  tT.  F.   G-. 

Boiled  Sweetmeat  Pudding. 
Twelve   ounces   flour  and  eight  ounces   butter   rolled   in   a 
square  sheet  of  paste.     Spread  over  the  whole  sweetmeats  (or 
stewed  fruit,  if  more   convenient).     Roll  closely  and  boil  in  a 
cloth.     Pour  sauce  over  it. — Mrs.  T. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudding. 

Pour  one  quart  milk  over  a  loaf  of  grated  stale  bread.  Let 
it  stand  till  near  dinner  time.  Then  beat  six  eggs  very  light 
and  add  them  to  the  bread  and  milk,  together  with  a  little  flour, 
to  make  the  whole  stick.  Flour  the  bag  and  boil.  Eat  Avith 
sauce. — Mrs,.  J.  A.  B. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudning.     {Economical.) 
Soak  one  pound  stale  bread  in  enough  milk  to  make  a  pud- 
ding.    When  soft,  beat  it  up  Avith  two  eggs  and  three  table- 
s'poonfuls  flour.     Pour  in  a  large  lump  of  butter,  melted.     Put 
ill  any  sort  of  fruit  you  like,  and  then  boil  — Miss  E.  T. 

Boiled  Pudding. 
One  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  lard  size  of  turkey's  egg.     Plour 
enough  to  make  a  batter  for  a  teacup  of  fruit. 
Boil  and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  JR. 


paste  fok  boiled  dumplings suet  pudding.      373 

Paste  for  Boiled  Dumplings. 
One  quart  flour,   three  good-sized  Irish  potatoes  (boiled  and 
mashed).     One   tablespoonful   butter,   and   the  same  of  lard. 
One  teaspoonful  soda,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. - 
Mrs.  E.  W. 

Apple  Dumplings. 

Three  pints  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  pint  of  milk,  one  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  egg.  As  many  apples  (chopped 
fine)  as  the  batter  will  take.  Boil  two  hours  in  a  well-floured 
cloth. 

The  water  should  be  boiling  when  the  dumplings  are  dropped 
in,  and  it  should  be  kept  boiling  all  the  while,  else  they  will  be 
heavy.     Eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  G.  iV". 

Boiled  Molasses  Pudding. 
1  cupful  molasses. 
1  cupful  sweet  milk. 
4  cupfuls  sifted  flour. 
1  cupful  stoned  raisins. 
^  cupful  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Boil  or  steam  in  a  pudding  mould.     Eat  with  wine  sauce. — 
Mrs.  McG. 

Suet  Pudding. 

1  quart  flour. 

2  teacups  suet,  chopped  fine. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Mix  the  suet  with  two-thirds  of  the  flour,  reserving  the  rest 
of  the  flour  to  roll  the  dough  in.  Put  in  a  cloth  and  boil  one 
hour. — Mrs.  B. 

Suet  Pudding. 
1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs,  well  beaten. 


374  SUET  DUMPLINGS — FRUIT  PUDDING. 

■^  pound  finely  chopped  suet. 
1  teaspoonful  powdered  ginger. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Add  flour  gi-adually,  till  you  have  made  it  into  a  thick  batter. 
Boil  two  or  three  hours,  and  serve  with  hot  sauce. — Mrs.  P.  "W, 

Suet  Dumplings. 

Rub  into  one  quart  flour,  one-half  pound  beef  suet,  free  of 
skin,  and  chopped  very  fine.  Add  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  buttermilk,  one  pound  fruit,  either  apples, 
dried  cherries,  or  dried  peaches  cut  very  fine,  and  sufficient 
water  to  make  it  into  dough.  Make  it  into  dumplings  half  an 
inch  thick,  boil  two  or  three  hours,  and  eat  with  a  sauce  made 
of  butter,  sugar,  and  wine. — Mrs.  G.  S. 

Eve's  Pudding. 

\  pound  finely  gi-ated  bread  crumbs. 
\  pound  finely  chopped  apples. 
4  eggs. 

6  ounces  sugar. 

2  ounces  citron,  and  lemon  peel. 
\  pound  finely  chopped  suet. 
\  pound  currants. 
A  little  nutmeg. 
Butter  the  mould  well,  and  boil  three  hours. — Mrs.  H.  T.  8. 

Fruit  Pudding. 

4  eggs. 
1  pint  milk. 
4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
Apples  or  peaches  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  dropped  in  the  bat 
ter.     Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  Dr.  8. 


baxed  peaoh  dumplings— ohbery  pudding.       s?**) 

Baked  Peach  Dumplings. 
Make  up  one  quart  of  flour  as  for  soda  biscuit.  Roll  like 
pastry,  putting  on  bits  of  lard  or  butter  several  times.  Make 
out  the  dough  like  biscuit,  roll  thin  and  on  each  piece  put  two 
or  three  pieces  of  canned  peaches.  (Peach  preserves  or  marma- 
lade would  answer  also.)  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  (if 
you  use  canned  peaches)  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  dump- 
ling. Draw  the  edges  firmly  together  and  place  them  in  a  deep, 
large  baking-dish.  Put  sugar  and  butter  between,  and  pour, 
over  all,  the  syrup  from  the  can.  (Use  a  three-pound  can  for 
this  quantity  of  flour. )  Bake  quickly  and  serve  with  or  with- 
out sauce.  A  good  substitute  for  the  old-fashioned  "  pot  peach 
pie."  Baked  apple  dumplings  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 
—Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cdrrant  Pudding. 
1  pound  currants. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
Nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste.     Citron  will  improve  the  flavor. 
Eat  with  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Raspberry  Pudding. 
One  pint  flour,  six  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately. 
Mix  the  eggs  with  a  pint  of  milk  and  one  cupful  of  butter. 
Into  this  stir  the  flour.  Make  the  beiries  very  sweet.  Mash 
them  and  stir  them  into  the  batter.  Bake  in  a  dish  and  serve 
with  sauce. — Mrs.  C.  C. 

Cherry  Pudding. 
10  eggs. 

1  cupful  melted  butter. 
1  quart  milk,  make  in  a  thick  batter. 
1  pound  dried  cherries  (stoned). — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 


376  apple  pudding — dried  apple  puddino. 

Apple  Puddikg. 
1  pound  apples  stewed  very  dry. 
1  pound  sugar. 
^  pound  butter. 
Yolks  of  7  eggs. 
Rind  and  juice  two  lemons. 
Bake  in  a  paste. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Delicious  Apple  Pudding. 
Three  eggs,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  melted  butter,  one 
cupful  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-third  cupful  of  apples,  one  tea- 
spoonful  essence  of  lemon;  baked  in    pastry.     This  quantity 
will  make  two  plates. — Mrs.  M.  M.  D. 

Apple  Pudding. 
Boil  and  strain  twelve  apples  as  for  sauce.  Stir  in  one-quar- 
ter pound  butter,  and  the  same  of  sugar.  When  cold,  add  four 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Pour  into  a  baking-dish  thickly  strewn  with 
crumbs,  and  strew  crumbs  on  the  top.  When  done,  grate  white 
sugar  on  top. — Mrs,  M. 

Apple  Pudding. 
1  quart  chopped  apples. 
1  pint  flour. 
1  pint  new  milk. 
3  eggs. 
Bake  quickly  after  mixing,  and  eat  with  sauce. — Miss  E.  T. 

Dried  Apple  Pudding. 
Wash  ten  ounces  of  apples  well  in  warm  water.  Boil  them 
in  a  quart  of  water.  When  soft,  add  ten  ounces  of  sugar,  eight 
ounces  of  butter,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons. 
When  cold  and  ready  to  bake,  add  five  beaten  eggs.  Bake  with 
or  without  pastry.  Ten  ounces  of  apples  will  make  a  commoE 
sized  pudding. — Mrs.  H. 


baked  apple  koll — apple  chaklottk.  377 

Baked  Apple  Roll. 
Make  a  paste,  roll  out  thin.  Spread  over  it  apples  cut  in 
thin  slices.  Sprinkle  nice  sugar,  and  put  bits  of  butter  all  over 
this.  Roll  it  up,  place  it  in  a  baking-pan.  Pour  in  water  anti 
put  sugar  and  butter  around  it,  grating  over  all  a  nutmeg. 
Any  other  kind  of  fruit  can  be  made  into  the  same  kind  of  roll. 
—Mrs.  S.  T. 

Apple  Meringue,  vMh  citstard. 

1  quart  apple-sauce. 

Juice  of  a  lemon. 

Whites  of  4  eggs. 

1  large  cup  of  sugar. 
Strain  apple-sauce  through  a  colander.     Put  it  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served.     Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiflF  froth,  add- 
ing a  little  sugar.     Cover  the  apples  with  the  frosting.     Set  in 
the  oven  to  brown,  and  eat  with  whipped  cream  or  soft  custard. 

—Mrs.  a.  W.  P. 

Apple  Meringue. 
Stew  the  apples  until  well  done  and  smooth.  Sweeten  to 
the  taste ;  add  the  rind  of  a  grated  lemon.  Beat  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  to  them  a  teacup  powdered  sugar, 
a  little  rose  water,  juice  of  a  lemon,  or  any  seasoning  preferred. 
Put  the  fruit  in  a  flat  dish,  and  put  the  egg  on  with  a  spoon. 
Brown  a  few  minutes.  Add  a  little  butter  to  the  apples  while 
hot.— Jfrs.  0.  McG. 

Apple  Custard  Pudding. 
Stew  six  sour  apples  in  half  a  cup  of  water.  Rub  through  a 
sieve  and  sweeten.  Make  a  custard  of  three  pints  milk,  six 
eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Put  the  apples  in  a  pudding- 
dish,  pour  the  custard  over  them,  and  bake  slowly  half  an  hour. 
—Mrs.  M.  B.  B. 

Apple  Charlotte. 

Equal  quantities  stewed  apples  and  bread  crumbs,  one  spoon 

32 


378  APPLE   OUSTAED OEANGE   PUDDING. 

ful  butter,  three  eggs  beaten  up  and  stirred  in  at  the  last,  just 
before  baking.  Spoonful  wine,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  lemon  peel, 
and  plenty  of  brown  sugar.  Stir  together,  and  bake  quite  a 
long  time. — Mrs.  I.  S. 

Apple  Custabd. 
1^  pint  stewed  apples. 
\  pound  sugar. 
Set  them  away  til     >old. 

Beat  six  eggs  veiy  light,  and  stir  in  gradually  a  quart  sweet 
milk.  Mix  all  together,  pour  in  a  deep  dish,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. — Mrs.  F. 

CiTKON  Pudding. 
Yolks  of  8  eggs. 
f  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  butter  (melted). 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  soaked  in  a  teacup  of  new 
milk,  and  made  into  a  paste  with  a  spoon.     A  glass  of  wine,  a 
little  nutmeg,  all  well  beaten  together  and  poured  over  sUced 
citron,  laid  on  a  rich  paste.     After  baking  it,  pour  over  it  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweetened  with  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar,  and  flavored  to  the  taste.     Put  it  in 
the  stove  again,  and  bake  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Citron  Pudding. 

Yolks  of  12  eggs. 

^  pound  butter. 

1  pound  sugai". 
Stir  in  the  butter  while  warming  the  eggs.     Cut  the  citron  in 
pieces  and  drop  in  the  mixture.     Have  a  rich  paste,  and  bake  in 
a  quick  oven. — 3Irs.  H. 

Orange  Pudding. 
Peel  and  cut  five  good  oranges  into  thin  slices,  taking  out  the 
seed.     Pour  over  them  a  coffee-cup  of  white  sugar.    Let  a  pint 


ORANGE   PUDDINQ.  379 

of  milTf  get  boiling  hot  by  setting  it  in  some  boiling  water.  Add 
yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  one*  tablespoonful  corn  starch, 
made  smooth  with  a  little  milk.  Stir  all  the  time,  and  as  soon 
as  thickened  pour  over  the  fruit.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  spread  over  the  top.  Sot 
it  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  harden.  Serve  either  hot  or 
cold.— Mrs.  E.  P.  G. 

Orange  Pudding. 
Yolks  of  16  eggs. 
1  pound  powdered  sugar. 
1  pound  butter,  creamed. 
The  rinds  of  two  oranges,  grated,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 
—Mrs.  Br.  T.  W. 

Orange  Pudding. 
Take  skin  of  a  large  orange,  boil  it  soft,  pound  it,  and  add 
the  juice  of  one  orange,  with   tlie  juice  of  a  lemon,  ten  eggs, 
one  pound  butter,   one  pound  sugar ;    beat  to  a   cream ;  add 
glass  of  wine,  brandy,  and  rose  water. — Mrs.  J'.  T.  G. 

Orange  Pudding. 
Pare  two  oranges,  beat  very  fine,  and  add  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter,  washed.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
sixteen  eggs,  and  add  to  them  the  other  ingredients,  well  mixed 
and  beaten  together.  Bake  in  a  puff-paste.  For  eight  or  ten 
persons. — Mrs.  F. 

Orange  Pudding. 
Put  two  oranges  and  two  lemons  into  five  quarts  of  water. 
BoU  them  till  the  rinds  are  tender,  then  take  them  out,  slice 
them  thin,  and  take  out  the  seed.  Put  a  pound  of  sugar  into 
a  pint  of  water.  When  it  boils,  slice  into  it  twelve  pippins, 
sliced  and  cored.  Lay  in  the  lemons  and  oranges ;  stew  them 
bender.     Cover  the  dish  with  puff-paste.     Put  in  the  fruit  care 


380  LEMON   PUDDING. 

fully,  in  alternate  layers.     Pour  over  the  syrup,  put  some  slipa 
of  paste  across  it,  and  bake"  it. — Mrs.  JS. 

Lemon  Pudding. 
^  pound  sugar. 

^  pound  butter,  well  creamed. 
Yolks  of  8  eggs. 
Pour  this  mixture  into  a  rich  crust  of  pastry,  after  adding 
the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.  Then  partially  bake  it.  Beal 
the  whites  very  stiff,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  sugar  for  each  egg 
Then  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  pour  this  meringue  over  the 
pudding  and  brown  it  quickly. — Mrs.  I.  D. 

Lemon  Pv/ldlng. 
^  pound  butter, 
f  pound  sugar. 
6  eggs. 
^  pint  milk. 
3  lemons,  juice  and  rind. — Miss  E.  TF. 

Lemon  Pudding. 
6  eggs. 

f  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  butter. 
Juice  of  two  lemons. 
Pour  on  the  butter  boiling  hot. — Mrs.  E.  S. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

6  eggs. 

7  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  pint  of  buttermilk. 
Season  with  extract  of  lemon,  beat  well  and  bake  in  a  crust. 
—Mrs.  A.  a 


lemon  meeingub coooanut  puddinq.  881 

Lemon  Meringue. 
One  pint  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  a  quart  of  new  milk. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs. 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Beat  these  ingredients  light  and  bake  as  custard.  Then 
spread  on  fruit  jelly  or  stewed  apples  (fresh).  Froth  the  whites 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  juice  of  the  lemon. 
Spread  over  the  top  and  brown. — Mrs.   Col.  S. 

Lemon   Meringue. 
The  rind  of  two  small  lemons  and  the  juice  of  one. 

2  cupfuls  sugar. 
^  cup  butter. 

^  cup  cream  (or  sweet  milk). 
6  eggs,  beaten  separately. 
Leave  oxit  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  which  must  be  mixed  with 
sugar  and   put  on  top  of   the  pudding  just  before  it  is  done. 
Bake  in  a  rich  paste. — Mrs.  S. 

Almond  Pudding. 
Blanch  a  pound  of  almonds,  pound  them  with  rose  water  to 
prevent  their  oiling;  mix  with  thera  four  crackers,  pounded, 
six  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  wine.  Bake  on  a 
crust. — Mrs.  Dr.  T.   W.' 

CocoANUT  Pudding. 
Two  grated  cocoanuts. 
1  pound  sugar. 
^  pound  butter. 
8  eggs,  leaving  out  4  whites. 
Beat  the  eggs  separately  and  to  the  yolks  add  the  butter, 
sugar,  cocoanut,  and  whites.     Add  a  little  wine  or  brandy,  if 
you  like.     Bake  in  tins  Hned  with  pastry. — Mrs.  J).  H. 


382  OOOOANUT  PUDDING CHOCOLATE   PUDDINa-. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 
One-half  pound  butter,  one-half  pound  sugar,  a  whole  cocoa- 
nut  grated,  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  leaving  out  two  whites 
Bake  in  plates  with  pastry  underneath.     The  oven  must  not  be 
toohot.— Jfrs.  I.  H. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 
Stir  together, 

■^  pound  butter. 
^  pound  sugar. 
A  glass  of  wine. 

6  eggs  (beaten  light). 

When  all  these  ingredients  have  been  stirred  together  till 
light,  add  a  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  mixed  with  a  little 
stale  cake. — Mrs.  E.  T. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 
1  pound  sugar. 
\  pound  butter. 
\  pouud  grated  cocoanut. 
\  pint  cream, 

7  whole  eggs,  or  9  whites  and  2  yolks. 
1  lemon. 

Half  a  nutmeg. 
Stir  butter  and  sugar  as  for  cake.     Beat  eggs  well.     Bake 
some  time. — Mrs.  E.   G. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 
One  grated  cocoanut,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  quarter  of  a 
povmd  of  melted  butter,  and  six  eggs. — Mrs.  M.  8.  C. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 
Scrape  fine  three  ounces  of  chocolate.     Add  to  it  a  teaspoonful 
of  ])0wdered  nutmeg  and  one  of  cinnamon.     Put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan, and  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  stirring  it  well. 
Cover  it  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.     Then  remove  the  lid,  stir 


OHOOOLATE   PUDDING QUEEN   OF  PUDDINGS.  383 

up  the  chocolate  from  the  bottom  and  press  out  the  lumps. 
When  dissolved  and  smooth,  put  it  on  the  fire  again.  Next  stir 
in,  gradually  and  while  it  is  boiling  hot,  half  a  pound  white 
sugar.  Set  it  away  to  cool.  Beat  six  or  eight  eggs  very  light. 
Pour  into  the  pan  of  chocolate  when  quite  cold.  Stir  the  whole 
very  hard.  Put  it  in  an  oven  and  bake  well.  It  will  bake  best 
by  being  put  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  Eat  cold. — Mrs.  tT.  B. 
F.,  JTr. 

Chocolate  Pvdding. 

1  quart  milk. 

3  eggs. 
Sugar  to  taste. 

2  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  milk. 

4  tablespoonfuls  chocolate. 

Set  the  milk  on  the  fii-e,  and  just  before  it  boils  put  in  the 
eggs,  sugar,  and  corn-starch.  Let  it  boil  about  a  minute,  then 
take  it  off  the  fire  and  add  the  chocolate. 

Chocolate  M:6ringue. 
One  quart  milk  and  yolks  of  four  eggs,  made  into  custard. 
Three  tablespoonfuls  powdered  chocolate,  put  into  a  cup  of 
warm  water.  One  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.  Sweeten  to 
yovir  taste  and  let  all  boil  together.  Then  put  it  in  a  baking- 
dish,  and  when  done,  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of 
eggs  and  white  sugar.  Put  in  the  oven  again  to  brown,  a  few 
minutes. — Mrs.  JB. 

Caromel  Pudding. 

Cream  together  one  cupful  of  butter,  and  one  of  sugar.  Add 
five  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately)  and  one  cupful 
of  preserved  damsons,  removing  the  seed.  Beat  all  together 
very  light  and  season  with  a  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Bake  on  pas- 
try.—iHfrs.  A.  D. 

Queen  op  Puddings. 

Take  slices  of  sponge  cake  and  spread  with  preserves  or  jelly. 
Place  them  in  a  deep  dish.     Make  a  custard  with  one  quart  of 


384  QUEEN   OF   PUDDINGS. 

milk  and  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Sweeten  and  season  to  the  taste 
and  pour  over  the  cake.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  adding  five  or 
six  spoonfuls  of  sugar  and  seasoning  with  lemon.  Spread  this 
over  the  top  of  the  puddiog  and  bake  a  very  light  brown. — Mrs. 
M.D. 

Queen  of  Puddings. 

1  pint  bread  crumbs. 

1  quart  milk. 

1^  cupful  of  sugar. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten. 

1  teacup  of  butter,  well  creamed. 

Grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Bake  until  done,  but  not  watery.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  . 
four  eggs  (above  mentioned)  very  stiff  and  beat  into  a  teacup 
of  sugar,  into  which  has  been  strained  the  juice  of  the  lemon 
aforesaid.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  after  it  has 
slightly  cooked,  a  layer  of  jelly  or  sweetmeats.  Then  pour  over 
it  the  dressing  of  eggs,  sugar,  and  lemon,  and  set  it  in  the  oven 
to  brown. — Mrs.  B.  JT.  S. 

Queen  of  Puddings. 

1-^  cupful  white  sugar. 

2  cupfuls  fine  dry  bread  crumbs. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  flavored  to  taste. 

1  quart  fj-esh,  rich  milk. 

•J  cup  jelly  or  jam. 
Rub  the  butter  into  a  cupful  of  the  sugar,  and  cream  these 
together,  with  the  yolks  beaten  very  light.  The  bread  crumbs 
soaked  in  the  milk  come  next,  then  the  seasoning.  Bake  this 
in  a  large  buttei  dish,  but  two-thirds  full,  till  the  custard  is 
"  set."  Spread  over  the  top  of  this  a  layer  of  jam  or  jelly  and 
cover  this  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whipped  whites  and  the 
half  cupful  of  sugar.  Bake  till  the  meringue  begins  to  color. 
-  Mrs.  D.  C.  K. 


QUEEN   OF   PUDDINGS — TAPIOOA   PUDDING.  385 

Queen  of  Pvddings. 
Saturate  the  crumbs  of  a  loaf  of  bread  witb  a  quart  of  rich 
milk.  Add  to  this  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  three-quarters  pound  of  sugar.  Beat  well  together,  sea- 
son to  taste,  and  when  well  stirred,  put  it  on  to  bake.  When 
nearly  done,  spread  over  it  a  layer  of  fruit  jam  or  jelly  and  whites 
of  the  eggs  well  beaten.     Sift  sugar  on  top  and  bake. — Mrs.  J. 

V.  a. 

Meringue  Pudding  or  Queen  of  Puddings. 

Fill  a  baking  dish  within  one  and  a  half  inch  of  the  top  with 
slices  of  sponge  cake,  buttered  slightly  on  both  sides,  scattering 
between  the  slices,  seeded  raisins  (about  half  a  pound).  Over 
this  pour  a  custard  made  of  a  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggs,  sweetened  to  the  taste. 

As  soon  as  it  has  baked  a  light  brown,  make  an  icing  of  the 
eight  whites  and  put  it  on  top.  Set  again  in  the  oven  to  brown 
a  little.     Eat  with  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar. — Mrs.  M.  P. 

Tapioca  PuDDiNa. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

The  yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Soak  the  tapioca  over  night  or  several  hours  in  a  little  water, 
boil  the  milk  and  turn  over  the  tapioca  and  when  it  is  blood- 
warm,  add  the  sugar  and  the  eggs  well  beaten,  flavor  the  pud- 
ding with  lemon  or  rose  water.  Bake  it  about  an  hour.  After 
it  has  cooled  a  little  add  the  two  remaining  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  one-half  pound  of  white  sugar  beaten  together  for  frosting. 
This  serves  as  sauce  for  the  pudding. — 3Irs.  A.  P. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 
Wash  a  teacup  of  tapioca  in  warm  water  and  let  it  stand 
half  an  hour.     Then  stir  in  a  custard  made  of  a  quart  of  milk, 

33 


386  TAPIOCA   PUDDING — SNOW   PUDDING. 

four  eggs,  a  smal)  piece  of  butter,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Bake 
about  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Stir  two  separate  times  from  the 
bottom,  whilst  baking. — Mrs.  Dr.  /S. 

Tapioca   Pudding   vnth  Apples. 

Soak  a  cupful  of  tapioca  in  three  cupfuls  of  water,  four  or 
five  hours,  where  it  will  be  warm,  but  not  cook.  Peel  and  core 
six  apples  and  stew  till  tender.  Put  them  in  a  pudding-dish, 
filling  the  holes  (from  which  the  cores  were  extracted)  with 
sugar  and  nutmeg  or  grated  lemon  peel.  Then  pour  over  them 
the  soaked  tapioca,  sKghtly  sweetened  and  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs. 
E.  W. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Let  a  box  of  gelatine  stand  one  hour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water. 
Then  add  two  pints  of  boiling  water,  four  cupfuls  of  crushed 
sugar,  the  juice  of  four  lemons  and  the  rind  of  the  same,  pared 
thin.  (The  latter  must,  however,  be  taken  out  when  the  pud- 
ding begins  to  congeal.) 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  stifi"  froth,  adding  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Then  beat  all  together  till  it  becomes  a 
stiflT  froth. 

Make  the  six  yolks  into  a  custard  flavored  with  vanilla  or 
nutmeg  and  pour  over  the  pudding  after  it  has  been  turned  out 
of  the  mould.— Jlfrs.  B.  J.  B. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Dissolve  one-half  box  gelatine  in  one  pint  hot  water.  Let  it 
Btand  long  enough  to  cool  a  little  but  not  to  congeal.  Then  add 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Beat  all  to  a  stiff  froth  and  pour  into  moulds.  Serve  with  a 
custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  a  pint  cf  milk  season- 
ed with  vanilla. — Mrs.  Br.  P.  G. 


SNOW   PUDDING — JELLY   ROLL.  587 

Snow  Pudding. 
Soak  a  half  box  of  gelatine  in  a  half  pint  of  cold  water,  all 
night.  In  the  morning,  add  the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons 
and  the  juice  of  one,  tliree  ciipfuls  of  white  sugar  and  a  half 
pint  of  boiling  water.  Strain  into  a  deep  vessel  and  add  the 
unbeaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Beat  constantly  for  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour,  then  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  With  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  make  a  pint  of  custard  flavored  with  vanilla  or  rose- 
water,  to  put  around  the  pudding,  when  congealed. — Mrs.  A.  B. 

Cake  Pudding. 
Take  a  moderate  sized  baking-dish,  around  which  lay  small 
sponge  cakes,  split  and  buttered  on  both  sides.  Spread  them  with 
marmalade  or  preserves  on  the  inside.  Put  in  the  centre  of  the 
dish  pieces  of  cake  buttered  and  spread  with  presei'ves  on  both 
sides.  Leave  room  for  a  custard,  to  be  made,  seasoned  and 
poured  over  the  pudding  before  baking.  Eat  hot  with  hot  sauce. 
—Mrs.  V.  R.I. 

Preserve   Pudding. 
1  cupful  preserves. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
Nearly  a  cupful  butter. 
5  eggs. 
Bake  in  pastry. — Mrs.  E.  B. 

Jelly  Roll. 
3  eggs. 

1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
^  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  milk. 
Bake  in  pie-pans,  spread  with  acid  jelly,  roll  up  in  a  compact 
form. — Mrs.  R. 


388        SWEETMEAT  PUDDING — TKAN8PAKENT  PUDDINO. 

Sweetmeat  Pudding. 

^       Yolks  of  10  eggs. 
Whites  of  2. 
1  pound  of  sugar. 
Half  a  pound  of  butter,  beaten  with  the  sugar,  and  pb  ired 
over  pastry,  on  which  is  placed  a  layer  of  sweetmeats  and  a 
layer  of  some  other  preserves.     Any  two  kinds  of  preserves 
may  be  used. — Mrs. . 

Sweetmeat  Pudding. 

■J  pound  of  sugar. 

■J  pound  of  butter. 

Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon. 

8  eggs. 
Mix  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  the  sugar.  Melt  the  butter 
and  pour  into  the  mixture.  Line  a  dish  with  rich  pastry,  on 
which  lay  sweetmeats,  damson,  or  peach  preserves,  or  any  other 
kind  that  may  be  convenient.  On  this,  place  one  layer  of  the 
mixture  above  mentioned,  then  another  of  sweetmeats.  Put  a 
layer  of  the  mixture  on  top,  and  bake. 

Cheese-cake  Puddino. 

Yolks  of  eight  fresh  eggs,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  good 
brown  sugar,  and  the  same  of  butter,  well  creamed  together. 

Beat  the  eggs  light,  mix  all  the  ingi'edients  well ;  season  with 
nutmeg  or  extract  of  lemon ;  add  ^  tablespoonful  of  good  brandy 
or  rum.     Bake  in  a  pastry,  in  small  tins  or  plates. — Mrs.  Dr. 

P.  G. 

Transparent  Pudding. 

8  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 
•^  pound  of  sugar. 
■J  pound  of  butter. 

Nutmeg,  mace,  or  any  spice  for  flavoring. 
Put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  tin  pan,  stirring  constantly  till  it  beginf 


TKAN8PABENT    PUDDING SAGO   PUDDINC*.  389' 

to  thicken.     When  cool,  pour  it  over  a  rich  paste,  and  bake 
over  a  moderate  fire.     Add  citron,  if  you  like. — 3Irs.  Dr.  E. 

Transparent  Pudding. 
■J  pound  of  sugar. 
■J  pound  of  butter. 
Dessertspoonful  of  rose  water. 
Stir  well  till  light. 
Beat  four  eggs  very  light,  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients. 
Butter  the  baking-dish,  line  with  stale  cake,  sliced  thin,  which 
you  may  cover  with  sweetmeats  of  any  kind.     Pour  the  mixt- 
ure on,  and  bake  for  nearly  an  hour. — Mrs,  I.  3. 

Transparent  Pudding. 
Yolks  of  10  eggs  ;  whites  of  2. 
1  pound  of  sugar. 
^  pound  of  butter. 
Season  with  nutmeg. 
Make  pastry,  on  which  put   a  layer  of  citron  or  any  other 
fruit.     Poxir  the  mixture  over  it  and  bake.     Beat  the  reinain- 
ing  whites  to  a  froth.     Add  a  teacup  of  powdered  sugar,  flavor 
to  taste,  and  pour  over  the  top  of  the  pudding  after  baking. 
Then  put  it  again  in  the  stove,  a  few  minutes,  to  bi-own. — 
Mrs.  E. 

Arrow-root  Pudding. 
Boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  make  it  into  a  thick  batter  with 
arrow-root.  Add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  little 
grated  lemon  peel.  Bake  it  nicely  in  a  pastry.  When  done, 
stick  slips  of  citron  all  over  the  top,  and  pour  over  it  the  whites 
of  the  six  eggs,  beaten  stifl",  sweetened  with  three  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  flavored  to  the  taste. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Sago  Pudding. 
Boil  one  cupful  of  sago  in  a  quart  of  water.     Pare  apples,  put 


390  SAGO   PUDDING — SIPPET   PUDDING. 

them  in  a  dish  and  stew  a  little.  Pour  the  sago  ovto"  them, 
and  bake  thirty  minutes.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  the  taste. — 
Mrs.  A.  B. 

Sago  Pudding. 
Boil  one  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk  with  four  spoonfuls  of 
sago,  nicely  washed  and  picked.     Sweeten  to  the  taste  ;  flavor 
with  lemon  peel,  cinnamon,  and  mace.     Mix  all,  and  bake  slowly 
in  a  paste. — Mrs.  V.  P.  M. 

Bread  Pudding. 
Slice  some  stale  bread,  omitting  the  crust.  Butter  it  moder- 
ately thick.  Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  cover  the  bottom  with 
slices  of  bread,  over  which  put  a  layer  of  any  kind  of  preserved 
fruit.  (Acid  fruits  are  best.)  Cover  all  with  a  light  layer  oi 
brown  sugar.  Make  a  rich  cuscard,  allowing  four  eggs  to  a 
pint  of  milk.  Pour  it  over  the  pudding,  and  bake  an  hour. 
Grate  nutmeg  over  it,  when  done. — Mrs.  Col.  S. 

Custard  Pudding. 
Cut  thin  slices  of  bread.  Butter  them,  and  lay  them  in  a 
baking-dish.  Mix  a  cold  custard  of  three  pints  of  milk,  the 
yolks  of  eight  or  ten  eggs,  beaten  light ;  sweeten  to  your  taste  ; 
pour  over  the  bread ;  bake,  and  let  it  stand  to  cool.  Froth  and 
sweeten  the  whites,  pour  them  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  and 
then  put  it  in  the  stove  a  few  minutes  more  to  brown  on  top. — 
Mrs.  B. 

Sippet  Pudding. 

Butter  a  baking-dish,  cut  slices  of  light  bread  very  thin, 
buttering  them  before  cutting.  Put  them  in  the  dish,  strewing 
over  each  separate  layer,  currants,  citron,  raisins,  and  sugar. 
When  the  dish  is  full,  pour  over  it  an  unboiled  custard  of  milk 
and  eggs,  sweetened  to  the  taste.  Saturate  the  bread  com- 
pletely with  this,  then  pour  on  a  glass  of  brandy  and  bake  a 
light  brown.  This  pudding  is  very  nice  made  of  stale  pound  oi 
sponge  cake  instead  of  Light  bread.-  --Mrs.  M.  C.  C 


MRS.    SPENCE's   pudding FKUIT   PUDDING.  391 

Mrs.  Spence's  Pudding.  {Original.) 
One  pint  grated  biead  crumbs  put  into  one  quart  fresh  sweet 
milk.  Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  very  light.  Add  one  tea- 
cup of  susrar  to  them.  Stir  in  the  milk  and  crumbs  and  add 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  clipped  raisins  and  one-quarter  of  a 
pound  sliced  citron.     Season  with  mace.      Bake  nicely. 

Whip  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs  to  a  stifl"  froth.     Add  one 
teacup  pulverized  sugar  and  season  with  extract  of  vanilla 
Put  this  over  the  pudding  and  set  in  the  stove  again  to  brown 
it  slightly.      Serve  hot  with  a  rich  sauce  made  of  sugar  and 
butter  seasoned  with  nutmeg  and  Madeira  wine. 

Teacup  Pudding. 
1  teacup  grated  bread. 
1  teacup  raisins. 
1  teacup  chopped  apples. 
1  teacup  chopped  suet. 
3  eggs. 

1  gill  of  cream. 
Wine  "glass  of  brandy. 
Spice  and  sugar  to  taste. —  Mi's.  Dr.  J". 

French  Pudding. 
Grate  one  pint  stale  bread.  Pour  over  it  one  quart  fresh 
milk,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  rind  of  one  lemon  and  part  of  juice, 
one  teacup  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  all 
well,  put  in  a  pudding-dish  and  bake  until  it  looks  like  custard. 
Then  set  it  to  cool,  after  which  spi'ead  the  top  with  jelly  or  pre- 
serves. Beat  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding 
the  remaining  juice  of  the  lemon  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Spread  this  on  top  the  preserves,  then  put  the  pudding 
again  in  the  oven  and  bake  a  light  brown. — JSIrs.   C. 

Fruit  Pudding. 
1  pint  grated  bread  crumbs. 
1  pound  raisins. 


392   PUDDING  WITHOUT  MILK  OK  EGSS — CKACKEK  PUDDING. 

f  pound  suet  chopped  fine. 
^  pound  sugar. 
■^  pint  cho2)ped  apples. 
Yolks  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Pour  over  the  top  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs,  frothed  and 
sweetened      Bake  an  hour. — Mrs. 

Pudding  without  Milk  or  Eggs. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  alternate  layers  of  grated 
bread,  and  finely  chopped  apples  seasoned  with  brown  sugar, 
bits  of  butter  and  allspice.  Pour  over  it  a  pint  of  wine  and 
water  mixed.  Let  the  top  layer  be  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  one 
hour. — Miss  2^. 

Marrow  Pudding. 
Grate  a  large  loaf  of  bread  and  pour  on  the  crumbs  a  pint  of 
rich  milk,  boiling  hot.  When  cold,  add  four  eggs,  a  pound  of 
beef  marrow,  sliced  thin,  a  gill  of  brandy  with  sugar  and  nut- 
meg to  your  taste.  Mix  all  well  together  and  bake  it.  When 
done  stick  slices  of  citron  on  the  top.  You  may  make  a  boiled 
pudding  of  this,  if  you  prefer.  —  Mrs.  E. 

Original  Pudding. 

Crumb  up  four  rolls.  Pour  over  them  a  quart  of  fi-esh  milk 
»t  the  breakfast  table.  A  half  hour  before  dinner,  beat  up 
separately  the  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs.  After  beating, 
put  them  together  and  stir  them  up.  Take  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  cut  it  in  bits  and  throw  it  on  top. 

Sauce.  Throw  in  a  bowl,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  large 
piece  of  butter.  Cream  it  round  and  round.  Add  two  teacups 
of  sugar,  one  wine-glass  of  light  wine,  and  nutmeg,  and  boil  up.  — 
Miss  R.  S. 

Crajker  Pudding. 

P\it  into  a  deep  dish  six  or  eight  large  soda  crackers.  Add  a 
large  lump  of  butter  and  a  teacup  of  sugar.     Crate  the  rind  of 


BIOE   PUDDING.  393 

two  ieinons  and  squeeze  the  juice  over  the  crackers.  Then  pour 
boiling  water  all  over  them,  and  allow  them  to  stand  till  they 
have  absorbed  it  and  become  soft.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  three  eggs  separately.  Stir  them  gently  into  the  crackers. 
Butter  a  deep  dish  and  pour  in  the  mixture,  baking  it  a  nice 
brown.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add  sugar  to  the  eggs  before  mix 
ing  them. — Mrs.  M.  C.  C. 

Rice  Pudding. 
Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  milk,  till  quite  tender.  Then 
mash  the  grains  well  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  three-quarters 
of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  same  of  melted  butter,  half  a  nut- 
meg, six  eggs,  a  gill  of  wine,  and  some  grated  lemon  peel.  Bake 
it  in  a  paste.  For  a  change,  it  may  be  boiled,  and  eaten  with 
butter,  sugar,  and  wine. — Mrs.  E. 

nice  Pudding. 
Sweeten  three  pints  of  sweet  milk,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or 
vanilla.     Put  in  this  a  small  cupful  of  raw    rice,  thoroughly 
washed.     Bake,  and  serve  cold. — Mrs.  S.  S. 

Mice  Pudding. 
3  cupfuls  boiled  rice. 
6  eggs. 

1-^  cupful  sugar. 
1^  pint  milk. 

1  wine-glassful  wine  and  brandy. 
1  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg. — il/?%.  Col.  S. 

Mice  Pudding. 
Boil  a  cup  of  rice  till  nearly  done,  then  add  a  pint  of  milk. 
When  perfectly  done,  mash,  and,  while  hot,  add  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  six  fresh  eggs,  beaten  till  light. 

17* 


394  BICB   PUDDING SWEET   POTATO    PUDDING. 

(Beat  the  sugar  with  the  eggs.)  Season  with  wine  or  Brandy^ 
and  one  grated  nutmeg.  Lemon  is  another  good  seasoning  for 
it.  Put  in  rich  pufF  paste,  and  bake  till  a  light  brown. — Mrs 
Br.  B.  W.  W. 

nice  Pudding. 
Boil  one  cup  of  rice  in  one  quart  of  milk.     Add  six  eggs  and 
a   small    tablespoonful  of  butter.     Sweeten  and  flavor  to  the 
taste,  and  bake. — Mrs.  JB. 

Irish  Potato  Pudding. 
1  pound  mashed  Irish  potatoes. 

1  pound  sugar. 

2  cupfuls  butter,  well  creamed. 
5  eggs. 

1  teacup  cream. 
1  wine-glassful  brandy. 
Stir   the  ingredients  thoroughly  together.     Bake  in  pastrj 
without  tops. — Mrs.  Br.  J.  F.   G. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 
1  quart  grated  sweet  potatoes. 
10  eggs,  well  beaten. 

3  cupfuls  sugar. 
1  cupful  flour. 

1  cupful  butter. 
1  quart  milk. 
Bake  slowly  in  a  pan.     Serve  with  sauce. — Mrs.  G.  A.  B. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 
Grate  three  or  four  large  sweet  potatoes  and  put  them  imme- 
diately in  three  pints  of  sweet  milk  to  prevent  them  from  turn- 
ing dark.  Beat  six  eggs  light,  add  four  ounces  melted  butter, 
and  mix  well  with  potatoes  and  milk.  Add  eight  tablesjioon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  and  season  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake  without 
a  crust. — Mrs.  W.  C.  P. 


SWEET   POTATO   PUDDING — MOLASSES   PUDDING.         395 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding. 
Boil  one  and  a  half  pounds  potatoes  very  tender.  Add  half 
a  pound  butter,  and  rub  both  together  through  a  sieve.  Then 
add  a  small  cupful  milk,  six  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupful  sugar. 
Beat  ail  together  and  add  a  little  salt,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Then  beat  again,  and  prepare  pastry.  Bake  twenty 
minutes.  It  may  be  baked  without  pastry.  Irish  potato  pud- 
ding may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

Ckeam  Pudding. 
Beat  six  eggs  to  a  froth  and  stir  into  them  three  tablesjjoon- 
fuls  sugar  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Mix  one  pint  milk, 
one  pound  flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  salt.  Add  eggs  and 
sugar.  Just  before  baking,  add  a  pint  of  thick  cream.  Bake 
in  cups  or  pudding  dishes. — Mrs.  Col.   W. 

Tyler  Pudding. 
4  eggs. 

3  cupfuls  sugar. 

1  cupful  butter,  washed  and  melted. 
1  cupful  cream,  seasoned  with  lemon. 
Bake  in  a  paste. — Mrs.   C.  JV. 

Molasses  Pudding. 
1  cupful  molasses. 
^  cupful  butter  and  lard  mixed. 
1  cup  not  quite  full  of  buttermilk. 
3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
Flour  enough  to  make  it  as  thick  as  cake  batter.     If  you  wish 
to  oat  it  cold,  add  another  cup  of  sugar.      Bake  it  quickly. — Jifrs. 

M.  s.  a 

Molasses  Pudding. 
1  teacup  sugar. 
1  teacup  butter. 


396  MOLASSES   PUDDING — SNOWBALL   PUDDmO. 

2  teacups  molasses. 
2  teacups  flour. 
4  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  ginger. 
1  teaspoouful  soda  dissolved  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  buttermilk 
Eat  with  sauce.     Excellent. 

Molasses  Pudding. 
9  eggs. 

4  cupfuls  molasses. 
1  teacup  butter. 
Bake  in  a  paste. — Mrs.  P.   TF. 

Cottage  Pudding. 
Beat  to  a  cream  one  large  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  and  a  halt 
tablespoonfuls  of  lard  and  butter  mixed.  Stir  in  one  well 
beaten  egg,  one  large  cup  of  buttermilk  with  soda  dissolved  in 
it.  Add  nutmeg  to  the  taste.  Take  one  pint  of  flour  and  rub 
into  it,  dry,  two  tablespoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.  Then  add  the 
other  ing'redients.  Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  serve 
with  wine  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  F. 

Texas  Pudding. 
3  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately). 
3  cupfuls  sugar. 
1  cupful  butter. 
1  cupful  sweet  milk. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.     Bake  in  a  crust.     This  will  fill 
three  pie-plates. — 3Irs.  McN^. 

Snowball  Pudding. 
Boil  one  quart  of  rich  milk  and  then  thicken  it  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  or  arrow-root.     Beat  up  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar.     Then  pour  the  milk 
slowly  into  the  eggs  and  sugar,  stirring  all  the  time.     Pour  this 


THIOKENED  MILK  PITDDTOG WASHINGTON  PUDDING.     397 

custard  into  a  pudding  disli  and  brown  it  sliglitly.  Beat  up  the 
whites  to  a  stiif  froth,  adding  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
flavoring  with  lemon.  Drop  it  on  the  custard  (when  browned) 
in  the  form  of  balls,  as  large  as  an  egg.  Set  it  back  in  the  stove 
to  brown  a  little. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Thickened  Milk  Pudding. 
Boil  one  pint  of  milk  and  one-half  pint  of  water.  Thicken 
with  one  pint  of  flour,  and  stir  in  three  ounces  butter,  while 
warm.  When  cold,  add  nine  eggs  (well  beaten),  one  pound 
sugar,  one  wine-glassful  wine,  and  powdered  cinnamon  and 
mace  to  vour  taste. — Mrs.  R. 

Delicious  Hasty  Pudding. 
Seven  eggs  beaten  separately.  Add  to  the  yolks  gradually 
ten  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  alternately  with  a  quart  of 
milk  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  till  perfectly  smooth. 
Then  add  the  whites,  pour  into  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Eat  with  nun's  butter  or  wine  sauce, — Mrs, 
P.McG. 

Feather  Pudding. 

2  cupfuls  flour. 
1  cupful  sugar. 
1  cupful  sweet  milk. 
1  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
■^  teaspoonful  soda. 
Season  with  nutmeg  and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  D.    !7.  -ffl 

Washington  Pudding. 
6  eggs  (well  beaten). 
J  pound  butter. 
■J  pound  sugar. 
•J-  poiind  marmalade. 


398  ONE   EGG   PUDDING VIRGINIA   PUDDING. 

Beat  well  together,  season  with  nutmeg,  and  bake  in  a  paste. 
— Mrs.  Br.  jS. 

One  Egg  Pudding. 

1  cupful  sugar. 

1  cupful  milk. 

2  cupfuls  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
Eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  C. 

Delicious  Pudding. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  very  light.  Stir  in  alternately 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  in  the 
batter.  Then  stir  in  the  whites  of  the  six  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
stifi"  froth.  Butter  the  baking  dish  or  cups,  fill  them  a  little 
more  than  half  full,  and  bake  quickly.  Eat  with  wine  sauce. 
Make  this  pudding  half  an  hour  before  dinner,  as  it  must  be 
eaten  as  soon  as  done. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Balloons. 

6  eggs. 

7  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
1  quart  of  milk. 

1  teacup  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard. 
Cream  the  butter  and  lard  with  the  flour.     Beat  the  eggs 
and  sugar  together.     Mix  the  milk  in  gradually,  bake  quickly, 
and  eat  with  sauce. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Virginia  Pudding. 
Scald  one  quart  of  milk.     Pour  it  on  three  tablespoonfuls  of 


EXTRA  FINE  PUDDING EXCELLENT  BATTER  PUDDING.  399 

sifted  flour.     Add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  the  whites  of  two,  and 
the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Sauce. — The  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  a 
full  cuj)  of  sugar,  then  a  wine-glass  of  wine  and  the  juice  of 
lemon.       Pour  over  the  pudding  just  as  you  send  it  to  the 
table. — Miss  E.  S. 

Extra  Fine  Pudding. 
Make  a  batter  of  two  teacupfuls  of  flour  and  four  of  milk. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  four  eggs  separately.     Then  mix. 
all  together  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter.     Bake 
in  a  buttered  pan  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. — -Mrs.  McG. 

Superior  Pudding. 
4  eggs. 
1  quart  of  milk. 

1  cup  of  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

Beat  the  sugar,  flour,  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  together,  with 
one  cup  of  the  milk,  scald  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  put 
the  above  in  it.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stifi"  froth,  add  a  little  sugar,  spread  on 
top  of  the  pudding,  and  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  D.  C.  K. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. 
Take  nearly  one  pint  sifted  meal  and  make  into  a  mush. 
Pour  over  it  one  quart  of  boiled  sweet  milk.  Add  one  gill  of 
molasses,  one  gill  of  sugar,  six  eggs  beaten  separately,  half  a 
pint  chopped  suet.  If  you  like,  add  a  few  currants,  raisins,  or 
a  little  citron.    Bake  nearly  two  hours.    Eat  with  sauce. — Mrs. 

j:  A.  B, 

Excellent  Batter  Puddino. 

1  quart  flour. 

7  eggs. 

^  cupful  melted  butter. 


400  PUFF  PUDDINO— POOR  MAn's   PUDDINQ. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  also  dissolved. 

Enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  batter  the  consistency  ol 
sponge  cake  batter.  Bake  in  a  mould  and  eat  with  brandy 
sauce. — Mrs.  M.  C.  C. 

Puff  Pudding. 

10  eggs  (beaten  separately). 

10  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour. 

1  quart  milk. 

A  little  salt. 
Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.     Then  put  the  flour  with  the 
yolks,  then  add  the  milk  and  lastly  the  whites,  well  beaten. 
Eat  with  cold  or  hot  sauce. — Mrs.  D.  C.  JT. 

Penny  Pudding. 
Beat  five  eggs  very  light.     Mix  with  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  one  large  spoonful  of  butter  and  one  pint  of  milk.     Eat 
with  sauce. — Mrs.  A.  T. 

Economical  Pudding. 
1  cup  chopped  suet. 
1  cupful  golden  syrup. 

1  cupful  milk. 

2  cupfuls  chopped  raisins. 

3  cupfuls  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  (put  in  the  milk). 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  put  in  the  dry  flour. 
Boil  three  hours  and  a  half. — Miss  JE.  T. 

Poor  Mak's  Pudding. 
6  eggs. 

1  pint  sour  cream. 
1  cupful  melted  butter. 
1^  cupful  sugar. 


PLAIN   PUDDING — WINE   8AU0B.  401 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 
^  nutmeg. 
Put  the  butter  in  after  the  flour.     Make  the  consistency  of 
pound  cake  batter. — Mrs.  A.  B. 

Plain  Pudding. 
1  pint  milk. 

3  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 

Put  chopped  apples  or  peaches  in  the  batter  and  bake.     Eat 
with  sauce.  — Mrs.  A.  H. 


PUDDING   SAUCES. 

Wine  Sauce. 

Dissolve  one  pound  sugar  in  a  little  water,  Boil  till  nearly 
candied,  A.dd  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  just  before 
taking  it  off  the  fire,  and  stir  in  wine  and  nutmeg  to  your  taste, 
after  taking  it  off". — Mrs.  R. 

Wine  /Sauce. 
Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter,  three  cupfuls  sugar  and  two  ot 
Madeira  wine  together,  for  a  large  pudding.  Put  a  little  -vater 
in  the  stewpan  and  let  it  boil.  Roll  the  butter  in  a  little  flour, 
and  stir  it  in  the  boiling  water  quickly.  Then  add  the  sugar, 
and  lastly  the  wine. — Mrs.  T. 

Wine  Sauce. 
One-half  pound  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  well  and 
creamed  with  the  butter ;  nine  tablespoonfuls  nice  brown  sugar  ; 
two  glasses  of  wine.   Let  it  simmer  on  the  fire  a  short  time.    Grate 
nutmeg  on  it  when  you  pour  it  into  the  sauce-bowl. — Mrs.  T. 

34 


402  brandy  sauce — pudddig  sauop. 

Brandy  Sauce. 
Cream  together  one-quarter  pound  fresh  butter,  and  one 
qixarter  pound  pulverized  white  sugar.  Mix  with  it  one  gill  of 
lemon  brandy,  or  half  the  quantity  of  brandy  ;  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  and  half  a  nutmeg  grated.  Stir  it  slowly  into  half  a  cup 
of  boiling  water,  and  after  letting  it  simmor  a  moment,  pour 
into  a  warm  sauce  tureen. — Miss  E.  P. 

French  Sauce. 
Cream  half  a  pound  butter,  and  stir  in  half  a  pound  sugar. 
Then  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  gill  of  wine.     Put  it  on  the 
fire  ;  stir  till  it  simmers.     Grate  nutmeg  over  it,  after  taking  it 
off  the  fire.— J/rs.  F.  D. 

A  Nice  Sauce  for  Puddings. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter ;  eight  tablespoonfuLs  brown  sugar ; 
one  nutmeg  (grated),  the  white  of  one  egg. 

The  butter  must  be  creamed  and  the  sugar  beaten  into  it,  then 
the  egg.  The  wine  poured  gently  in  and  stirred  till  the  sauce 
is  cold,  then  grate  the  nutmeg.  Make  it  in  a  common  sauce 
tureen,  on  the  hearth,  stirring  all  the  while.  Do  not  let  it  boil, 
—M7S.  M.  E.  J.  B. 

Rich  Sauce  for  Puddings. 
One  pint  cream  ;  half  pound  sugar  ;  one  tablespoonful  butter  ; 
one  glass  of  wine.     Season  to  the  taste.     Do  not  let  it  boil. — 
Miss  E.  P. 

Sauce  for  Pudding. 
Two  large  cupfuls  brown  sugar ;   one  large  cupful  butter  ;  one 
teacup    wine ;  a   little   rose  water.     Boil   the    sugar  and  wine 
together.      Then    add    the  butter    and    grated    nutmeg. — Mrs, 

McG. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

One  cupful  cream,  from  morning's  milk;  two  cupfuls  sugar  j 
one  egg,  well  beaten  ;  one  tablespoonful  butter ;  one  teaspoonful 


COLD    SAUCE — LEMON    SAUCE.  403 

corn-starch.     Boil  all  together  till  a  tbick  syrup.     Take  otf  the 
fire  and  add  grated  nutmeg  and  a  glass  of  wine. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cold  Sauce. 
Whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.     Sweeten  to  the 
taste.     Pour  in  some  hot  melted  butter,  stirring  well.     Season 
with  lemon.— if7-5.  M.  G.  B.    ■ 

Gold  Sauce. 
Half  a  pound  of  butter  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar  (powdered), 
beaten  to  a  froth.     The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  o^ 
essence  of  any  kind,  as  a  flavor. — 3frs.  M.  F.  G. 

Cold  Sauce  {for  about  eight  peojyle). 
One  heaping  tablespoouful  of  butter,  creamed  till  very  light, 
adding  sugar  till  as  thick  as  you  can  stir.     Then  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  very  rich  milk,  a  glass  of  good  wine,  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg. — Mrs.  P.  McG. 

Pudding  Sauce. 
One  cupful  of  butter;  two  cupfuls  sugar;  three  eggs;  one 
wine-glass  of  wine.     Stir  well,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs. 
F.  D. 

Pudding  Sauce. 
Cream  together  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  butter.     Add  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  glass  of  wine.     Stir 
over  a  slow  fire,  but  don't  boil. — Mrs.  Mc  G. 

Lemon  Sauce. 
One  pound  sugar ;  three  ounces  butter ;  half  a  teacup  of 
water.  Juice  and  sliced  rinds  of  two  lemons.  Pour  this  into  a 
saucepan,  and  while  it  is  coming  to  a  boil,  beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  add  them.  When  well  boiled,  take  it  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth.  To  be 
eaten  hot  with  sponge  cake. — Mrs.  K. 


404        8au0e  fob  boiled  pastry — ^pastby — pieb. 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Pastry. 

Stew  for  fifteen  minutes  one  pint  of  water,  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  pour 
several  spoonfuls  of  its  contents  into  the  beaten  eggs,  stirring 
briskly.  Then  pour  all  into  the  pan,  place  it  over  a  slow  fire 
and  stir  till  it  thickens.  Season  with  lemon  or  vanilla. — Mrs. 
I.H. 

Molasses  Sauce. 

Moderately  boil  a  pint  of  molasses  from  five  to  twenty 
minutes,  according  to  its  consistency.  Add  three  eggs  well 
beaten.  Stir  them  and  continue  to  boil  a  few  minutes  longer. 
Season  with  nutmeg  and  lemon. — Mrs.  Dr.  tT. 


PASTRY. 


Pastry  has  fallen  somewhat  into  disfavor,  on  account  of  its 
unwholesome  properties,  but  as  many  persons  still  use  it,  we 
will  give  some  directions  for  making  it  as  wholesome  and  palat- 
able as  possible. 

It  Ls  a  great  mistake  to  use  what  is  called  "  cooking  butter  " 
and  old  lard  for  pastry.  Only  fresh  butter  and  sweet  lard  should 
be  employed  for  the  purpose,  and  in  summer  these  should  be 
placed  on  ice  before  being  used  for  pastry.  Pastry,  like  cake, 
shoiild  be  made  in  the  cool  of  the  morning,  and  it  should  be 
eaten  fresh,  as,  unlike  cake,  it  will  not  admit  of  being  kept. 

If  a  marble  slab  cannot  be  obtained,  it  is  well  to  keep  a  thick 
wooden  board  exclusively  for  roUiug  out  pastry.  Handle  as 
little  as  possible,  and  if  anything  should  prevent  you  from  put- 
ting it  on  to  bake  as  soon  as  it  is  rolled  out,  put  it  on  ice  in  the 
interim,  as  this  will  make  it  nicer  and  more  flaky.     Sometimes 


EXCELLENT   RECIPE   FOR  PASTRY  — PUFF   PASTE.         405 

there  is  a  delay  about  getting  the  oven  or  fire  ready,  in  which 
case  the  cook  generally  leaves  the  pastry  lying  on  the  kitchen 
table ;  but  its  quality  would  be  much  improved  if  it  were  put  on 
the  ice  instead,  whilst  waiting  to  be  baked. 

Excellent  Eecipe  for  Pastry. 
Four  teacups  flour,  one  teacup  firm  butter,  one  teacup  nice 
lard,  one  teacup  ice  water,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  the  lard 
and  butter  in  the  flour  with  a  large,  flat  knife,  then  add  the  ice 
water.  Do  not  touch  it  with  the  hands.  Take  it  up  in  a  rough- 
looking  mass,  roll  it  out  quicklj — not  too  thin.  Cut  it  with  a 
very  sharp  knife  around  the  edges  of  the  patty-pans.  When 
intending  to  bake  lemon  puddings  or  cheese-cakes,  let  the  pastry 
bake  four  or  five  minutes  before  adding  butter,  as  this  prevents 
the  pastry  from  being  heavy  at  the  bottom.  In  summer  it  is  best 
to  put  five   teacups  of  flour,  instead  of  four. — Mrs.  M.  C.  G. 

Pastry. 

One  pound  fresh  butter,  one  quart  flour.  Make  up  the  dough 
with  ice  water.  Divide  the  butter  into  parts.  Roll  out,  and 
cover  thickly  with  one  part  of  the  butter.  Continue  till  all  is 
rolled,  sifting  flour  each  time.  Don't  handle  much,  or  it  will  be 
heavy. — Mrs.  TF. 

Pastry.  . 

Mix  with  water  one  quart  flour  and  two  teaspoonfuls  salt. 
Work  well  and  roll  out  thin.  Spread  over  with  lard,  sift  flour 
over  the  dough,  and  cut  it  in  strips  of  two  inches.  Lay  them 
in  a  pile  one  above  another,  cut  them  in  squares,  and  again  pile 
them  up.  Press  down  with  the  hands,  and  x'oll  out  thin  as 
before.  Repeat  this  several  times,  and  the  pastry  will  be  im- 
proved each  time.  Do  not  use  your  hands  after  the  roller  is 
applied. 

,  Puff  Paste. 

One  pound  flour,  to  be  made  up  with  cold  water  and  beaten 
fifteen  minutes.     One  pound  butter  (or  half  lard,  if  you  have 


406  LEMON   PIE. 

not  enough  butter),  which  must  be  spread  on  the  dough  foui 
times  and  rolled  in. 

It  must  be  made  thin,  put  in  tins,  and  baked  in  a  moderate 

oven. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Stii 
two  tablespoonfuls  corn-starch  into  two  teacups  hot  water,  anil 
boil,  stirring  well.  Add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  granu 
lated  sugar.  When  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
then  the  lemon-juice  and  grated  rind,  stirring  the  whole  well 
together.  Line  the  plates  with  rich  pastry,  and  pour  the  mixt- 
ure in.  Bake  until  the  crust  is  done.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  very  light,  add  six  ounces  powdered  sugar,  pour  over  the 
pies,  set  them  again  in  the  oven,  and  slightly  brown.  This  will 
make  two  pies. — Mrs.  T.  M.  C. 

Lemon  Pie. 
One  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  three  eggs,  one  lemon.  Mix  the 
gi-ated  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  the  sugar.  Add  the  milk  next,  and  then  the  butter  and 
flour.  Bake  in  a  paste.  After  it  is  cold,  spread  on  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  frothed  and  sweetened. — Mrs.  Mc  G.  ^ 

Tjemon  Pie. 
Yolks  of  four  e^gs,  white  of  one,  beaten  very  light ;  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  large  lemon  ;  five  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
sugar.  Bake  in  an  nndercrust  till  the  pastry  is  done.  Froth 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  with  five  tablesj^oonfuls  sugar.  Spread 
over  the  pies  and  bake  again  till  brown. — Mrs.  Col.  S. 

Lemon  Pie. 
One  tablespoonful  but:er,  creamed  with  two  cups  of  sugar, 
yolks  ot  six  eggs,  grated  rind   and  juice  of  four  lemons,  foui 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour.     Mix  well.    Add  a  cupful  butter- 


LEMON   ORE  AM  PIE — PEACH   MEKINGUE   PIE.  407 

milk,  and  one  teaspoonful  soda.     Froth  and  sweeten  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  and  put  them  on  top  the  pies. — ]\Irs.  JV. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie. 
One  cupful  sugar,  one  of  water  ;  one  raw  potato,  grated; juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.     Bake  in  pastry,  top  and  bottom. 

Okange  Pie. 
Pulp  and  juice  of  two  oranges,  a  little  of  the  grated  peel,  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful  milk.  Stir 
the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  then  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  then 
the  juice,  lastly  the  milk.  Bake  in  a  dish.  After  the  pie  has 
cooled,  spread  on  it  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs,  stiffly  frothed 
and  sweetened.  Then  set  it  again  on  the  fire,  to  brown  slightly. 
—Mrs.  McG. 

Orange  JPie. 

One  quart  milk,  eight  eggs,  one  small  teacup  rolled  cracker, 
half  a  cupful  butter,  two  grated  fresh  oranges,  or  the  juice  and 
chopped  peel  of  two,  one  wine-glassful  wine.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  the  wine,  oranges,  and  eggs  beaten  to  a  foam, 
the  whites  separately,  the  milk  and  the  cracker.  Bake  half  an 
hour,  in  pufl'  paste. — 3Irs.  31.  £.  S. 

Orange  Pie. 
One  pint  of  milk,  three  oranges,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.     Bake  in  puff 
paste.— illfrs.  H.  H.  S. 

Peach  Meringue  Pie. 
Pare  and  stew  ripe  peaches.  When  nearly  done,  sweeten, 
take  from  the  fire.  Stir  in  a  heaping  teaspoonful  fresh  butter 
to  each  pie.  Pour  in  a  deep  pie-plate,  lined  with  paste.  Bake ; 
when  done,  remove  from  the  oven  and  cover  with  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  sweetened  with  three 
tablespoonfils  powdered  sugar.     Set  back  in  the  oven  to  brown 


408  PEACH   PEE — STKAWBERRT   SHORT-OAKE. 

slightly.     Apple  meringue  pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  way, 
only  flavoring  the  fruit. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Peach  Pie. 
Pare  and  stew  a  qviart  of  peaches  with  a  pint  of  sugar,  Stir- 
ling often ;  when  boiled  to  look  nearly  as  thick  as  marmalade, 
take  from  the  fire  and  when  nearly  cool,  add  one  tablespoonful 
fresh  butter.  Have  ready  three  ciusts,  baked  in  shallow  tin 
plates.     Spread  and  pile  up  the^  fruit  on  each. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Peach  Pie. 

Pare  and  stew  the  peaches  till  nearly  done.     Sweeten  and 

boil  a  little  longer.     Set  aside  and  when  nearly  cool,  pour  into 

deep  pie-plates,  lined  with  paste.     Put  bits  of  butter  over  the 

top,  dredge  with  flour,  then  cover  with  a  top  crust,  and  bake. — 

Mrs.  T. 

Prune  Pie. 

Wash  the  prunes  through  several  waters.  Put  in  a  preserv- 
ing kettle  in  the  proportion  of  two  pounds  fruit  to  one  pound 
sugar.  Pour  a  quantity  of  boiling  water  over  them  and  let 
them  boil  at  least  two  hours.  When  they  are  thoroughly 
done  and  the  syrup  thickens,  take  from  the  fire  and  pour  into 
tin  plates,  lined  with  paste.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
Cover  with  a  rich  paste  and  bake. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Damson  Pie. 

Scald  the  damsons  slightly,  in  just  enough  water  to  prevent 
turning.  Set  aside  till  cool  enough  to  handle.  Remove  the 
stones,  sweeten  well,  and  put  in  a  deep  pie-plate,  lined  with 
paste.  Dredge  with  a  little  flour,  cover  with  a  top  crust,  and 
bake.— JIfrs.  T. 

Strawberry  Short-cake. 

Bake  a  rich  paste  in  pie-i)lates.  Have  six  ready.  In  these 
spread  stewed  strawberries  well  sweetened ;  lay  one  upon  another, 
six  deep.     In  winter,  use  preserved  or  canned  berries. — Mrs.  H, 


cherry  pie — apple  pie.  409 

Cherry  Pie, 
Seed  the  cherries  first,  then  scald  them  in  their  own  juice. 
Sweeten  liberally  and  pour  into  a  deep  pie  plate  lined  with  a 
rich  paste.  Dredge  with  flour,  cover  with  a  top  crust  and  bake. 
Scarlet  or  short-stem  cherries  are  best.  It  is  necessary  to  scald 
most  fruits,  as  otherwise  the  pastry  will  burn  before  the  fruit  is 
thoroughly  done. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

Prepare  as  for  sauce,  stewing  two  pounds  fruit  to  one  pound 
sugar.  Pour  into  a  pie  plate  lined  with  paste,  cover  with  a  top 
crust  and  bake. 

Currant  Pie. 

Wash  and  thoroughly  pick  the  fruit.  Sweeten  liberally  and 
put  in  a  yellow  baking-dish,  adding  a  little  boiling  water  to 
melt  the  sugar  ;  let  it  simmer  a  little  ;  then  set  it  aside  to  cooL 
Pour  into  a  pie  plate,  covered  with  paste.  Dredge  with  flour. 
Cover  with  paste  and  bake. 

Apple  Pie. 
Put  a  crust  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish.  Put  on  it  a  layer  ot 
ripe  apples,  pared,  cored,  and  sliced  thin,  then  a  layer  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Do  this  alternately,  till  the  dish  is  filled.  A  dd  a 
few  teaspoonfuls  rose  water  and  some  cloves.  Put  on  a  crust 
and  bake  it. — Mrs.  E. 

Apple  Pie. 
Pare  and  stew  the  apples  till  thoroughly  done  and  quite  dry. 
Rub  through  a  colander  and  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar. 
When  cool  add  the  whites  of  eggs — three  eggs  to  a  pint  of 
apples — and  a  teacup  of  cream,  whipped.  Beat  all  the  ingre- 
dients together  with  a  patent  egg- whip — one  with  a  wheel  if 
convenient.  Spread  upon  crusts  of  rich  paste,  baked  in  shallow 
tin  pie-plates.  Grate  nutmeg  on  each  one  and  pile  up  three  or 
four  deeo.— Jf?«.  aS.  T. 

35 


410  APPLE   PIE— TOMATO   PIE. 

Ajyple  Pie. 
Pare  ami  slice  the  apples.  Make  a  little  thick  syrup  of 
white  sugar,  into  which  throw  a  few  cloves,  allspice,  or  mace,  as 
you  prefer.  In  this  syrup,  scald  a  few  apples  at  a  time,  taking 
them  out  and  putting  more  in  till  all  ai^e  slightly  cooked.  Set 
aside  to  cool,  then  pour  into  deep  pie  plates  lined  with  paste. 
Dredge  with  flour.  Put  bits  of  butter  over  all.  Dredge  again. 
Cover  with  paste  and  bake.  A  glass  of  brandy  or  wine  will 
improve  it. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Blackberry  Pie. 
Pick  the  berries,   but  do  not   wash  them.      Stew  slightly, 
sweeten,  pour  into  a  pie  plate,  lined  with  paste.     Grate  in  a 
little  nutmeg,  dredge  with  floiir,  put  on  atop  crust  and  bake. 

Whortleberry  Pie. 
Pour  just  enough  boiling  water  on  the  fruit  to  prevent  it  from 
sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  preserving  kettle.     Boil  a  minute, 
sweeten  and  pour  into  a  pie-plate  lined  with  paste.     Dredge 
with  flour,  cover  with  paste  and  bake. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Gooseberry  Pie. 
Put  one  pound  sugar  to  one  of  fruit,  adding    just  enough 
water  to  prevent  it  from  burning.     Cook  till  it  begins  to  jelly. 
Then  spread  over  shapes  of  rich  puff  paste,  already  baked. — 

Mrs.  M.  a  C. 

Tomato  Pie. 
Slice  green  tomatoes  and  stew  in  a  thick  syrup  of  sugar  and 
lemon  juice.  Grate  in  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon.  When  trans- 
parent, spread  evenly  over  the  bottom  of  a  pie-plate  that  has  been 
lined  with  paste.  Spread  strips  of  pastry  across  or  cut  into 
ornamental  leaves  with  a  cake-cutter,  place  over  the  frviit  and 
bake.— Jfrs.  S.  T. 


sliced  potato  pie — minoemeat.  411 

Sliced  Potato  Pie. 
Steam  or  boil  the  potatoes.  Slice  and  lay  in  a  syrup  of  sugar 
seasoned  with  whole  cloves  or  allspice.  Scald  and  set  aside  till 
nearly  cool.  Then  ])lace  the  slices  evenly  on  the  bottom  of  a 
deep  pie-plate  lined  with  crust.  Put  in  each  pie  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  in  bits,  a  wine-glass  of  brandy  or  Madeira  wine. 
—Mrs.  jS.  T. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

One  pint  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed  with  a  teacup  sweet 
milk,  and  run  through  a  colander.  Beat  separately  four  eggs ; 
cream  one  teacup  butter  with  one  of  sugar.  Beat  in  the  yolks, 
then  the  potatoes,  grate  in  half  a  nutmeg,  pour  in  a  large  wine- 
glass of  bi-andy  or  good  whiskey,  and  last  of  all,  stir  in  the 
frothed  whites.  Bake  in  deep  pie  plates,  lined  with  paste,  with- 
out a  top  crust.     Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  pies. 

Irish  potato  pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  way ;  only  adding 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. — Mrs.  T. 

Rhubarb  Pie. 
Carefully  skin  the  stalks,  cut  in  pieces  half  an  inch  long. 
Scald  in  a  little  rich  syrup,  but  not  long  enough  to  become  soft. 
Set  aside,  and  when  nearly  cool,  pour  into  a  pie  plate,  lined 
with  paste.  Put  a  little  grated  lemon  rind  and  a  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut,  in  each  pie.  Dredge  with  flour,  put  on 
a  top  crust  and  bake. — Mrs.  T. 

Mincemeat. 
Two  quarts  boiled  beef,  two  quarts  suet,  chopped  fine  (or  a 
part  butter,  for  suet).  Six  quarts  apples,  one  quart  molasses 
(best  quality).  Four  pounds  sugar,  three  pounds  raisins,  one 
potind  citron.  Nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  and  wine  to 
your  taste.  Mix  well,  pack  in  jars,  with  melted  butter  on  top, 
if  to  keep  long.     Put  in  a  cool  place.  — Mrs.  J".  TT. 


412  MmOEMEAT — CEEAM  PIB. 

Mincemeat. 
Three  pounds  meat  (after  it  is  boiled).  Four  pounds  Buet, 
three  and  one-half  pounds  raisins,  one  and  one-half  pounds  cur- 
rants, one-half  pound  dried  ©berries,  two  nutmegs,  and  mace  to 
your  taste.  Four  pints  white  wine,  one  pint  brandy,  four 
pounds  brown  sugar. — Mrs.  M.  E.  J'.  B. 

Mincemeat. 
Six  cupftds  beef,  twelve  cupfuls  apples,  three  cupfuls  sugar, 
two  cupfuls  molasses,  two  cupfuls  butter,  two  pounds  raisins, 
one  quart  cider,  three  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  allspice,  two  nutmegs. 

Mincemeat. 
Two  pounds  lean  fresh  beef,  boiled  and  chopped.  Two 
pounds  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  four  pounds  pippin  apples,  two 
pounds  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  two  pounds  currants,  one- 
half  pound  citron,  two  grated  nutmegs,  one  ounce  powdered 
cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  each  of  cloves  and  mace,  two  large 
oranges,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  quart  brandy,  one  quart  wine, 
one  wineglass  I'ose  water. 

Cream  Pie. 
One  quart  morning's  milk,  1  cupful  sugar,  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
three  tablespoonfuls  sifted  flour.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  after 
seasoning  with  nutmeg,  wine,  and  vanilla  or  lemon.  Have  rich 
pastry  already  baked,  in  deep  pie  plates.  Fill  with  the  above 
mixture  and  bake.  Make  a  m6ringue  of  the  whites  and  some 
sugar,  pour  over  the  pie,  and  set  it  in  the  stove  again  to 
brown. — Mrs.  T. 

Cream  Pie. 

One  half  pound  butter,  four  eggs,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste, 
two  tablespoonfuls  flour  well  mixed  with  milk.  Pour  over  it  one 
quart  boiling  milk,  stir  all  together  and  bake  in  deep  dishes.— 
Mrs.  A.  B 


soda  oraoker  pie — molasses  pie.  4:13 

Soda  Cbauker  Pie. 
Pour  water  on  two  large  or  four  round  soda  crackers  and  let 
them  remain  till  thoroughly  wet.  Then  press  out  the  water 
and  crush  them  up  together.  Stir  in  the  juice  and  grated  peel 
of  a  lemon,  with  a  cupful  or  more  of  powdered  sugar.  Put  in 
pastry  and  bake. — Miss  If.  L. 

Silver  Pie. 

Peel  and  grate  one  large  white  potato.  Add  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  one  cupful 
of  white  sugar,  and  one  of  cold  water. 

Bake  in  a  nice  paste.  After  baking,  spread  on  top  the  whites 
of  three  eggs,  frothed,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  lemon.  Set 
again  on  the  fire  and  brown.  Lay  on  small  pieces  of  jelly  or 
jam,  just  before  taking  it  to  the  table. — Mrs.  M.  B.  JB. 

Custard  Pie. 
One  quart  milk,  five  eggs,  five  tablespoonfuls  sugar  ;  flavor 
■with  lemon. 

Bake  slowly,  half  an  hour. — Mrs.  M.  JB.  B. 

Washington  Pie. 
One  cupful  sugar,  one-half  cupful  butter,  one-half  cupful 
sweet  milk,  one-half  cupful  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  ;  flavor  with  lemon. 
Put  on  dinner  plates — spread  with  apple  sauce  between  each 
layer. — Mrs.  Dr.  J'. 

Sugar  Pie. 

Three  cujjfuls  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  melted 
butter,  one-half  cupful  cream,  three  eggs.  Season  with  lemon; 
beat  well  together ;  bake  in  pastry,  without  tops. — Mrs.  JT.  F. 

Molasses   Pie. 
Three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  pint  molasses,  one  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter.     Bake  on  a  rich  crust. — Mrs.  Dr.  J. 


414  MOLASSES   FIB— COEN-STAKCH   CHEESE   CAIlEB. 

Molasses  Pie. 
One  teacup  molasses,  one  teacup  sugar,  four  eggs,  four  table 
spoonfuls  butter.     Mix  sugar  and  eggs  together,  pour  in  butter, 
and  add  molasses. — Mrs.  Dr.  S. 

Cheese   Cakes. 

Yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half  pound  but- 
ter, one  cupful  flour,  one  pint  milk,  juice  of  two  lemons.  The 
milk,  flour,  and  butter,  creamed,  and  lemons  put  in  togethei-, 
after  the  eggs  are  well  beaten.  Stir  all  well  together  till  it 
curds. 

Bake  in  paste. — Mrs.  A.  G. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cakes. 

Yolks  of  sixteen  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  three-quarters  pound 
butter,  four  lemons,  boiling  rinds  twice  before  using,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  powdered  cracker. 

Bake  in  paste. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Lemon  Cheese  Cakes. 
Mix  and  gently  melt  four  ounces  of  sugar  and  four  ounces  of 
butter ;  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  white  of  one ;  grated  rind  of 
three  lemons,  juice  of  one  and  a  half  lemon,  one  small  Savoy 
or  sponge  biscuit,  some  almonds  blanched  and  pounded,  three 
spoonfuls  brandy.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  rich  pastry. — Mrs.  V. 
P.  M. 

Lemon   Cheese   Cakes. 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs  or  yolks  of  five  and  whites  of  three,  one- 
half  pound  sugai-,  a  lump  of  butter,  juice  of  one  lemon  and 
grated  rind  of  three.     Bake  in  rich  pastry — Miss  D.  D. 

Corn-starch  Cheese  Cakes. 
Juice  and  rind  of  three  lemons,  three  cupfuls  water,  three 
cupfuls  sugar,  three   eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  two 
fcablespooufuls  butter.     Boil  the  water,  n.ix  the  corn  starch  with 


ALMOND  CHEESE  CAKES — fRDNE  TAKT8.       415 

a  little  cold  water  and  pouv  on  the  boiling  water.  Let  it  boil  up 
once  and  then  pour  it  on  the  butter  and  sugar.  After  it  cools 
add  the  lemons  and  eggs. — Miss  D.  D. 

Almond  Cheese  Cakes. 
Beat  up  together  very  light  one-half  pound  powdered  sugar, 
and  the  whites  of  four  eggs. 

Blanch  and  cut  in  small  pieces  four  ounces  of  almonds,  which 
must  be  beaten  up  with  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Add  a  little  oil  of 
almonds  or  rose  water,  and  bake  with  pastry,  in  tins. — Mrs. 
I.H. 

Almond   Cheese   Cakes. 

Soak  one-half  pound  Jordan  almonds  in  cold  water  all  night. 
Next  morning,  blanch  them  in  cold  water,  lay  them  on  a  clean 
cloth  to  dry,  and  then  beat  them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar  with  a 
little  orange-flower  or  rose  water.  Then  beat  and  strain  six 
yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  add  a  half-pound  white  sugar,  and 
a  little  powdered  mace.  E-ub  all  well  together  in  the  mortar. 
Melt  ten  ounces  fresh  butter,  and  add  a  gi'ated  lemon  peel. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  fill  the  pans,  after  putting  a  paste  at 
the  bottom.     Small  tin  shapes  are  best  for  cheese  cakes. 

Cream  Takts. 
Make  them  small,  of  lich  paste.     Fill  them  after  baking,  with 
whipped  cream,  and  drop  a  small  spot  of  jelly  in  each  one.     The 
prettiest  and  most  delicate  of  tarts. — Mrs.  M.  JB.  JB. 

Lemon  Taiits. 
Chop  or  grate  a  lemon  ;  add  a  cupful  white  sugar,  a  cupful 
water,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  flour.      Line  small  patties  with 
paste,  put  a  spoonful  in  each  and  bake. — Mrs.  M.  JB.  B. 

Prune  Tarts. 
Scald  the  prunes,  take  out  the  stones,  break  them  and  put  the 
kernels  in  a  little  cranberry  jxiice  with  the  prunes,  and  some 


416         FRENCH  FRITTERS BELL  FRITTERS 

sugar.     Simmer  them,  and  when  cold  put  in  tart  shapes  in  pas- 
try and  bake, — Mrs.   V.  P.  31. 

French  Fkitteks. 

One  quart  of  milk  (half  to  be  boiled,  and  the  other  half 
mixed  with  a  quart  of  flour,  and  used  to  thicken  the  boiling 
milk  with). 

Let  it  get  done.  While  cooking,  beat  ten  eggs  very  light ; 
add  a  spoonful  at  a  time  to  the  batter,  beating  all  the  time,  till 
well  mixed.  Add  salt  to  your  taste.  Have  a  small  oven  full 
of  nice  lard,  boiling  hot.  Put  not  quite  a  spoonful  of  batter  to 
each  fritter.  Take  them  out  before  they  turn  dark  and  put 
them  in  a  colander  to  drain  the  lard  oft'  of  them. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Feitters  [made  with  yeast). 
One  qu.art  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  yeast,  five  eggs,  one  pint 
milk.  Beat  into  a  tolerably  stifi"  batter.  Stir  a  cupful  of 
boiled  rice  into  the  batter,  a  short  time  before  baking.  A  good 
deal  of  lard  (boiling  hot)  is  required  for  frying  the  fritters. 
Drop  the  batter  in  with  a  spoon,  which  must  be  dipped,  each 
time,  in  boiling  water.  In  cool  weather,  make  the  fritters 
about  nine  in  the  morniug,  in  the  summer,  about  eleven. — 
Mrs.  A.  a 

Bell  Fritters. 

Put  a  pint  of  boilifig  water  in  a  preserving  kettle,  and  as  it 
boils,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  fresh  butter.  Have  ready  a  pint 
of  the  best  flour,  sifted  and  wet  with  cold  water,  as  for  starch. 
Dii>  up  some  of  the  boiling  water  and  pour  to  this,  being  care- 
ful to  have  it  smooth.  Retui-n  this  to  the  kettle,  stirring 
rapidly  to  prevent  lumps.  Turn  into  a  wooden  tray,  and  while 
hot,  beat  in  six  well  beaten  eggs,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Beat 
till  very  light,  and  beat  quickly  that  the  eggs  may  not  cook  in 
Ivimps.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  boiling  lard  in  a  pan.  Make  the 
fritters  the  shape  of  an  egg,  drop  in  and  fry  a  light  brown. 

To  be  eaten  with  a  pint  of  molasses,  a  heaping  tablespoonful 


QUISE  OF  PAPEB  PANCAKES — JELLY,  BLANC-MANGE.      417 

of  butter,  a  little  ginger  and  cinnamon,  boiled  to  a  thick  syrup 
and  served  hot. 

A  great  deal  of  lard  is  reqiiired  to  fry  fritters  nicely  ;  yet  it  is 
not  extravagant,  as  it  may  be  used  again.  Sti-ain  what  remains 
and  put  it  by  for  use. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

QuiKE  OF  Papkr  Pancakes. 
Mix  with  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  fine  flour,  four  ounces 
sugar,  five  ounces  fresh  butter,  melted  and  cooled,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  Madeira  wine,  half  a  nutmeg.  Grease  the  pans  once 
with  fresh  butter,  and  this  will  answer  for  all.  The  above  quan- 
tity will  suffice  for  five  or  six  persons. — Mrs.  M. 

Common  Pancakes. 
Eight  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  salt. 


JELLY,  BLANC-MANGE,  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE, 
BAKED  CUSTARD,  CREAMS,  ETC. 

Jelly  made  of  the  feet  of  calves,  hogs,  etc.,  is  more  troublt?- 
Bome,  but  is  also  considered  more  nutritious  than  jelly  made  of 
gelatine.  It  is  very  desirable,  for  country  housekeepers  in  par- 
ticular, to  make  this  sort  of  jelly,  as  the  materials  are  generally 
in  their  reach.  It  is  well,  however,  in  all  cases,  to  keep  on 
hand  Cox's  or  Nelson's  gelatine,  on  account  of  the  expedition 
with  which  jelly  may  be  made  from  these  preparations. 

As  jelly  is  considered  more  wholesome  when  not  .colored  by 
any  foreign  substance,  no  directions  will  be  given  in  the  subse- 
quent pages  for  coloi'iug  it.     The  palest  amber  jelly,  clear  and 
sparkling,  flavored  only  by  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemori 
18* 


418  JEIA,Y   BLANC-MANGE,  CHARLOTTE   RUS8E. 

and  pale  Madeira  or  sherry  wine,  is  not  only  the  most  beautiful, 
but  the  most  palatable  jelly  that  can  be  made. 

Though  the  recipes  accompanying  boxes  of  gelatine  do  not 
always  recommend  boiling,  it  is  a  great  improvement  to  jelly, 
adding  brilliancy,  transparency,  and  a  better  flavor.  Only  the 
grated  yellow  rind  and  strained  juice  of  the  lemon  should  be 
used,  and  these,  with  the  requisite  quantity  of  pale  Madeira  or 
sherry,  should  be  added  after  the  other  ingredients  have  been 
well  boiled  together.  The  white  rind  or  one  single  lemon  seed 
will  render  the  jelly  bitter.  A  delicious  preserve  (for  which 
a  receipt  is  given  under  the  proper  heading),  may  be  made  of 
lemons,  after  the  yellow  rind  has  been  grated  off  and  the  juice 
pressed  out  for  jelly. 

The  best  and  most  simple  arrangement  for  straining  jelly  is  to 
invert  a  small  table,  fold  an  old  table-cloth  four  double,  tie  each 
corner  to  a  leg  of  the  table ;  set  a  bowl  under  the  bag  thus 
formed,  with  another  bowl  at  hand  to  slip  in  its  place  when  the 
jelly  first  run  through  is  returned  to  the  bag,  as  will  be  neces- 
sary, the  first  never  being  transparently  clear.  Catch  a  little  in 
a  glass.  If  clear  as  crystal,  it  will  be  unnecessary  to  return  it 
again  to  the  bag.  You  may  then  put  a  thick  cloth  over  the  bag 
to  keep  in  the  heat,  and  if  in  winter,  place  before  a  fire.  Shut 
up  the  room,  and  let  it  diip.  The  jelly  will  run  through  the 
bag  more  rapidly  if  the  bag  is  first  scalded. 

Jelly  should  never  be  made  in  hot  weather.  Ices  are  much 
better  and  more  seasonable. 

Always  serve  jelly  with  a  pitcher  of  whipped  cream,  but  do 
not  mix  it  beforehand  with  the  cream,  as  it  is  best  to  leave  it  to 
the  taste  of  each  person. 

For  blanc-mange  and  gelatine,  it  is  best  to  use  gelatine  and 
as  few  spices  as  possible,  as  spices  turn  gelatine  dark.  As  such 
explicit  directions  are  given  in  the  subsequent  pages  for  the 
making  of  these  dishes,  it  is  unnecessary  to  say  anything  further 
on  the  subject  at  present. 

A  nice  custard  is  made  in  the  following  manner :  Mix  the 


STOCK  JELLY — OALVEs'    FOOT  JELLY.  419 

beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs  with  a  teacup  of  sugar.  Havv5  a  quart 
of  milk  boiling  in  a  kettle.  Dip  up  a  teacup  of  milk  at  a  time 
and  pour  on  the  eggs,  till  the  kettle  is  emptied,  stirring  rajiidly 
all  the  time.  Wash  out  the  kettle,  pour  the  mixture  back,  and 
stir  constantly  till  it  thickens.  Then  pour  it  into  a  bowl  and 
stir  till  cool,  to  make  it  smooth  and  prevent  it  from  curdling. 
Put  in  the  bottom  of  glass  mugs  sli2:)s  of  preserved  orange, 
lemon,  or  citron.  Fill  nearly  full  with  custard ;  put  whipped 
cream  and  grated  nutmeg  on  top. 

Or,  the  yolks  may  be  mixed  with  boiled  milk  and  sugar  in  the 
same  proportions,  but  instead  of  being  returned  to  the  kettle, 
may  be  poured  into  china  or  earthenware  custard-cups,  set  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  placed  in  a  stove  or  range,  and  baked. 
The  boiled  milk  must  be  seasoned  by  boiling  a  vanilla  bean  in 
it,  or  a  few  peach  leaves,  or  it  may  be  flavored  with  caromel. 
Serve  the  custard  with  whipped  cream  on  top. 

Stock  Jelly. 
To  one  and  a  half  gallons  of  stock,  put  the  whipped  whites  of 
eighb  eggs.  Put  in  six  blades  of  mace  and  the  rind  of  three 
lemons,  4^  pounds  sugar.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  then  add  three 
pints  of  Madeira  wine,  juice  of  eight  lemons,  a  little  vinegar  or 
sharp  cider.  Let  it  boil  only  a  few  minutes.  Strain  through  a 
dripper.  If  the  stock  is  not  very  nice,  it  may  require  the 
whites  of  one  dozen  eggs  to  clear  it. — Mrs.  T. 

Calves'  Foot  Jelly. 
One  quart  nice  jelly  stock,  one  pint  wine,  half  a  pound  white 
sugar,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  up,  three  spoonfuls  lemon 
juice.  Boil  all  well  and  pass  through  a  jelly-bag,  kept  hot 
before  the  fii-e.  Try  some  at  first,  till  it  drips  clear,  and  then 
pour  out  the  whole.  Peel  the  lemons  as  thin  as  possible  arwl 
sti-ain  the  jelly  on  the  peelings.  Should  you  wish  to  turn  ou^ 
the  jelly  in  moulds,  put  one  ounce  isinglass  to  three  pints  of 
jelly.— ilfrs.  I.  H, 


420  isinglass  jellt — gelatine  fei  lt. 

Isinglass  Jelly. 
Dissolve  two  ounces  isinglass  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
When  cold,  add  juice  of  three  lemons  and  skin  of  one,  whites 
of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
pint  cider,  four  pieces  cinnamon  (size  of  the  little  finger),  eight 
blades  of  mace.  Let  it  boil  up  well.  Be  careful  not  to  stir 
after  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Let  it  stand  ten 
minutes  after  removing  from  the  fire,  and  just  before  straining 
pour  in  a  pint  of  wine. — Mrs.  W.  H.  H. 

Crystal  Jelly. 
Pare  off  the  rind  of  one  large  lemon.  Boil  in  one  pint  water 
with  one  ounce  isinglass  ;  add  one  pound  sugar  and  one  cup  pale 
wine.  As  soon  as  the  isinglass  is  dissolved,  strain  through  a 
muslin  and  let  it  stand  till  cold.  Grate  the  rind  of  another  lemon 
and  let  it  stand  in  the  juice  of  the  two  lemons  for  a  short  time. 
Strain  all  in  a  bowl,  and  whisk  it  till  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Pour 
in  moulds.— Jfrs.  M  P.   G. 

Gelatine  Jelly. 

Soak  one  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  three  hours,  in  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Then  add  one  pint  of  cooking  wine,  the  rind  and  juice 
of  one  lemon,  two  pounds  white  sugar,  a  little  mace.  Stir  these 
ingredients  till  the  sugar  dissolves,  then  add  two  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water,  gently  stirring  till  mixed.  Strain  at  once,  through 
a  flannel  bag  twice.  This  recipe  makes  the  best  jelly  I  ever 
saw.— Jfrs.  M.  M.  JD. 

Gelatine  JTelly. 

To  one  package  of  gelatine  add  one  pint  cold  water,  the  rind  of 
one  lemon  and  juice  of  three.  Let  it  stand  an  houi\  Then  add 
three  pints  of  boiling  water,  one  pint  wine,  two  and  a  quarter 
pounds  loaf  sugar,  a  wineglass  of  brandy  or  the  best  rum. 
Strain  through  a  napkin  and  let  it  stand  to  jelly. — Mrs.  Col.  S. 

Gelatine  Jelly  (without  straining). 
Add  a  pint  cold  water  to  one  box  Cox's  gelatine.     Let  i1 


JELLY   WITHOUT   EGGS   OB  BOILING BLANC-MANGE.    421 

stand  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  three  pints  boiling  water,  one 
pint  wine,  the  strained  juice  and  peelings  (cut  thin)  of  three 
lemons,  half  a  teacup  of  best  vinegar,  one  and  a  half  pounds  loaf 
stigar,  one  wine-glass  Frencli  brandy,  mace  or  any  other  spice 
you  like,  and  a  little  essence  of  lemon.  Let  it  stand  an  hour, 
theti  take  out  the  lemon  peel  and  mace.  Let  it  stand  in  a  cool 
place  to  oengeal. — Mrs.  Dr.  tT. 

Jelly  without  Eggs  or  Boiling. 
Dissolve  one  package  gelatine,  an  hour,  in  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Then  add  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  the  strained 
juice  of  four  lemons  and  the  rind  of  two,  one  quart  of  wine, 
two  pounds  of  sugar.  Stir  all  well  together  until  dissolved. — 
Mrs.  E.  B. 

tFdly  without  Soiling. 

To  one  of  the  shilling  packages  of  Cox's  gelatine,  add  one 
pint  cold  water.  After  letting  it  stand  an  hour,  add  one  and  a 
half  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  one  pint 
light  wine,  three  pints  boiling  water,  and  cinnamon  to  the  taste. 
In  cold  weather  this  is  ready  for  use  in  four  or  five  hours.  Set 
the  vessel  with  the  jelly  on  ice,  in  summer. — Miss  D.  D. 

Cream  Jelly. 
Two  measures  of  stock,  one  of  cream ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to 
the  taste.     Pour  in  moulds  to  congeal. 

Blanc-mange. 
Dissolve  over  a  fire  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  gill  of  water. 
Pour  the  melted  isinglass  in  a  quart  of  cream  (or  mixed  cream 
and  milk),  and  half  a.  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Put  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour.  Strain  it,  and  add  a 
quarter  of  pound  of  almonds,  blanched,  and  shaved  fine.  Sea- 
son to  the  taste  with  vanilla  and  wine,  but  do  not  add  the  wine 
while  hot.     Pour  into  moulds. — Mrs.  C.  C. 


BLANC-MANGE ARROW-KOOT   BLANC-MANGE. 

Blanc-mange. 

PoYxf  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water  on  one  ounce  gelatine  tc 
soften  it.  Boil  three  pints  rich  cream.  Stir  the  gelatine  into 
it  whilst  on  the  fire,  and  sweeten  to  the  taste.  When  it  cools, 
season  with  three  tablespoonfuls  peach  water.  Four  ounces 
almonds,  blanched  and  pounded  very  fine  and  boiled  with  the 
blanc-mange,  are  a  great  improvement.  When  it  begins  to 
thicken,  pour  into  moulds.  Serve  with  plain  cream. — Mrs.  J". 
R.  T. 

Slanc-mange. 

Sweeten  a  pint  of  cream  and  flavor  it  with  lemon  juice. 
Then  whip  it  over  ice,  till  a  stiff  froth.  Add  one-quarter  of  an 
ounce  gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water,  and  whip  it 
well  again  to  keep  the  gelatine  from  settling  at  the  bottom. 
Pour  in  a  mould,  and  set  on  ice  till  stiff  enough  to  turn  out 
Eat  with  cream,  plain   or  seasoned.      A  delicious  dish. — Mrs. 

a.  D.  L. 

JBlanc-mange.  (  Very  fine.) 
Dissolve  one  box  gelatine  in  two  quarts  milk,  let  stand  for 
two  hours.  Boil  six  almonds  in  the  milk.  Strain  through  a 
sifter  while  this  is  being  boiled.  Pound  together  m  a  mortar, 
two  handfuls  blanched  almonds  and  half  a  cupful  granulated 
sugar.  Stir  into  the  boiled  milk.  Add  one  tablespoonful 
vanilla,  and  sweeten  to  your  taste. — Mrs.  W.  S. 

Custard  BLASfc-MANOE. 

Make  a  custard  with  one  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  one  teacup 
sugar.  Stir  into  it  while  boiling,  half  a  box  gelatine  after  it 
has  soaked  ten  minutes.  Season  with  vanilla,  and  pour  in 
moulds.     Eat  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  E.  P.  G. 

Arrow-root  Blanc-mange, 
Boil  in  a  saucepan  (tightly  covered)  one   quart  milk  and  a 
piece  of  vanilla  bean.     Stir  into  half  a  pint  cream,  a  teacup 


CHOCOLATE   MANGE CHARLOrfE    KUS8B.  423 

airow-root,  and  a  little  sauce,  mixing  them  smoothly.  Pour 
into  this  the  quart  boiling  milk,  stir  it  well,  put  it  in  the  sauce- 
pan again  and  let  it  simmer  ten  minutes.  Sweeten  to  your 
taste.  Set  it  in  moulds  to  cool.  Eat  with  cre^m,  flavored  to 
your  taste. — Mrs.  H. 

Chocolate  Mange. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  pint  cold  water.  Let 
it  stand  an  hour.  Then  boil  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  add  to  it 
six  ounces  chocolate  with  the  gelatine.  Sweeten  to  your  taste 
and  pour  into  moulds.  Eat  with  sauce  made  of  cream,  wine, 
and  sugar. — Mrs.   W.  S.  L. 

Coffee  Mange. 
One  cupful  very  strong  coffee,  one  cupful  sugar,  one  cupful 
rich  cream.     Dissolve  half  a  box  gelatine  in  two  cupfuls  milk, 
over  the  fire.     Add  the  cream  last,  after  the  rest  is  cool.     Pour 
in  a  mould  to  congeal. — Mrs.  Mc  G. 

Charlotte  Russe. 
One  pint  milk  made  into  a  custard  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
sweetened  with  half  a  pound  sugar,  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 
Strain  into  the  custard,  one  ounce  isinglass,  dissolved  in  two 
cvijjfuls  milk.  When  this  mixture  is  cold  and  begins  to  stiffen, 
mix  with  it  gradually,  one  pint  rich  cream,  previously  whipped 
to  a  froth.  Then  put  strips  of  sponge  cake  around  the  mould 
and  put  the  Charlotte  Russe  in.  Turn  it  out  when  ready  to 
serve. — Mrs.  W.  C.  R. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Soak  three-quarters  of  a  package  of  gelatine  in  three  teacups 

fresh  milk.     Make  a  custard  of  one  and  a  half  f  int  fresh  milk, 

three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs. 

When  it  has  boiled,  add  the  gelatine,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 


4:24  OHAELOITE   RU8BB. 

When  it  begins  to  congeal,  stir  in  a  quart  rich  cream,  whipped 
to  a  froth. — Mrs.  M. 

Charlotte  Russe. 
Have  a  tin  or  earthernware  mould  six  inches  high,  and  the 
same  in  diameter  (or  oblong,  if  you  like).  Slice  sponge  cake 
or  lady-fingers  and  Une  the  mould  with  them.  Then  beat  three 
pints  rich  cream  to  a  froth,  and  put  the  froth  on  a  sieve  to 
drain  the  milk  from  it.  Take  one  pint  calf's-foot  jelly  (or  one 
and  a  half  ounces  gelatine),  half  a  pint  rich  milk,  and  the  yolks 
of  six  eggs.  Place  over  a  slow  fire,  and  beat  till  they  nearly 
boil.  Then  take  them  off  the  fire  and  beat  till  cool.  Put 
in  the  frothed  cream,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  flavor  with  vanilla, 
and  stir  all  well  together.  Fill  the  mould  and  place  it  on  ice 
to  cool. — Mrs.  W.  H.  L. 

Strawberry  Charlotte  Russe. 
Six  eggs,  one  ounce  isinglass,  one  quart  milk.  Sweeten  to 
the  taste  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  into  moulds.  Then 
put  it  on  sponge  cake,  covered  with  strawberry  jam,  and  pour 
around  the  dish  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
wine. — Mrs.  McG. 

Charlotte  Russe. 
Sweeten  one  quart  cream,  flavor  it  with  wine  and  whip  it 
lightly.  Dissolve  half  a  box  gelatine  in  a  tablespoouful  cold 
water  and  the  same  quantity  of  boiling  water.  Set  over  the 
steam  of  a  kettle  to  dissolve.  Then  add  half  a  pint  of  cream. 
When  cold,  stir  it  into  the  whipped  cream.  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  cream.  When  it 
begins  to  stiffen,  pour  into  a  glass  bowl,  lined  with  thin  strips 
of  sponge  cake.  Whip,  sweeten  and  flavor  another  pint  of 
cream,  and  garnish  the  dish. — Mrs.  D. 

Charlotte  Russe. 
One  ounce  gelatine  ;  one  quart  rich  cream ;  eight  eggs ;  one 


BAKED   CUSTARD — SPANISH    CREAM.  425 

quart  new  milk.  Sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Whip  the 
cream  to  a  stiff  froth.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  gelatine 
and  yolks  of  the  eggs.  When  cool,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
well  beaten  and  the  whipped  cream.  Line  the  mould  with 
sponge  cake,  and  if  in  sumaier  put  it  on  ice. — Miss  M.  G.  L. 

Baked  Custard. 

Boil  a  quart  or  three  pints  of  cream,  or  rich  milk,  with  cinna- 
mon, and  three  dozen  beaten  peach  kernels,  tied  in  a  piece  of 
muslin,  or  you  may  substitute  some  other  flavoring,  if  you 
choose.     After  boiling,  let  it  cool. 

Then  beat  the  yolks  of  fourteen  eggs  and  whites  of  four, 
sweeten  and  strain  in  a  pitcher.  After  it  has  settled,  pour  it  in 
cups  and  set  them  in  the  oven,  putting  around  them  as  much 
boiling  water  as  will  reach  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  cups.  Let 
it  boil  till  you  see  a  scum  rising  on  top  the  custard.  It  will 
require  at  least  ten  minutes  to  bake. — Mrs.  H. 

Saked  Custa/rd. 
Seven  eggs ;  one  quart   milk ;    three    tablespoonfuls   sugar. 
Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  Br.  E. 

Baked  Custard. 
Scald  eight  teacups  milk.  (Be  careful  not  to  boil  it.)  After 
cooling,  stir  into  it  eight  eggs  and  two  teacups  sugar.  Bake  in  a 
dish,  or  cups.  Set  in  a  stove  pan  and  surround  with  water,  but 
not  enough  to  boil  into  the  custard  cups.  An  oven  for  baking 
puddings  is  the  right  temperature.  Bake  when  the  custard  ia 
set,  which  will  be  in  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  JT.  tT.  A. 

Spanish  Cream. 

Boil,  till  dissolved,  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  three  pints  of 

milk.     Then  add  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  beaten  light,  and  mixed 

with  two  teacups  sugar.      Put  again  on  the  fire  and   stir  till  it 

thickens.     Then  set  it  aside  to  cool,  and  meantime  beat  the 

36 


426  SPANISH    OKEAM — BAVARIAN   CBEAM. 

six  wliites  very  stiff  and  stir  them  into  the  custard  when  almost 
cold.  Pour  into  moulds.  Flavor  to  your  taste,  before  adding 
tlie  whites. — Mrs.   W. 

Sjyanish    Cream. 

Dissolve  half  a  box  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  rdilk.  Boil  one 
quart  milk,  and  while  boiling  beat  six  eggs  separately  and  veiy 
light.  Mix  the  yolks  with  the  boiling  milk,  and  when  it 
thickens  add  the  gelatine.  Sweeten  and  season  to  the  taste. 
Pour  all  while  hot  on  the  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  into 
moulds. — Mrs.  J.  T.  B. 

Italian  Cream. 

Soak  a  box  of  gelatine  in  one  pint  cold  water.  Then  add 
one  quart  nice  cream,  season  with  fresh  lemons,  sweeten  to  your 
taste,  beat  well  together,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  When 
hard,  eat  with  cream,  flavored  with  wine. — Mrs.  A.  M. 

KussiAN  Cream. 
Boil,  till  dissolved,  one  ounce  gelatine  in  three  pints  milk. 
Then  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  five  ounces 
sugar.  Mix  the  whole  and  let  it  cook.  Then  strain  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Beat  the  four  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when 
the  cream  is  nearly  congealed,  beat  them  in.  Flavor  to  your 
taste,  and  mould. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

Bavarian  Cream. 
Sweeten  one  pint  thick  cream  to  your  taste  and  flavor  it  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Churn  the  cream  to  a  froth,  skim  off  the 
froth  as  it  rises  and  put  it  in  a  glass  dish.  Dissolve  one  and  a 
half  tablespoonfuls  gelatine  in  warm  water,  and  when  dissolved 
pour  into  the  froth  and  stir  fifteen  minutes.  Set  in  a  cold 
place  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  few  hours. — Mrs.  JD.  H. 

JBava/rian   Cream. 
Soak  half  a  box  gelatine  in  cold  water  till  thoroughly  dis- 
solved.    Then  add  three  pints  milk  or  cream,  and   put  on  the 


TAPIOCA   CKEAM — SYLLABUB.  427 

fire  till  scalding  hot,  stirring  all  the  wliile.  Then  take  it  off 
and  add  three  teacups  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  (by 
spoonfuls)  stirring  all  the  time.  Set  on  the  fire  again  and  let 
it  remain  till  quite  hot.  Then  take  it  off"  and  add  the  eight 
beaten  whites  and  eight  teaspoonfuls  vanilla.  Put  into  moulds 
to  cool. — Mrs.  JV.  A.  L. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

Three  tablespoon  fuls  tapioca,  one  quart  milk,  three  eggs,  one 
cupful  sugar.      Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Soak  the  tapioca,  in  a  little  water,  overnight.  After  rinsing, 
put  it  in  milk  and  let  it  cook  soft.  Add  sugar  and  yolks  of 
eggs.  Whip  the  whites  stiff  and  pour  on  the  tapioca,  as  you  re- 
move it  from  the  fire.  It  should  be  cooked  in  a  tin  pail,  set  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  to  prevent  the  milk  from  scorching. 
Eat  cold.— Jfrs.  G.  W.  P. 

Tapioca. 
Boil  the  pearl  tapioca  (not  the  lumj)  kind)  as  you  do  rice. 
When  cool,  sweeten  to  the  taste  and  season  with  nutmeg.   Pour 
rich  cream  over  it  and  stir  it  to  make  it  smooth.      Put  one  pint 
cream  to  two  tablespoonfuls  before  boiling. — Mrs.  J.  3.  T. 

Lemon  Froth. 

Dissolve  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  then  add 
a  pint  of  cold  water.  In  winter  three  pints  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  two. 

Add  the  juice  of  six  lemons  and  the  rind ;  cut  them  as  for 
je'.ly.  Let  it  stand  till  it  begins  to  harden.  Then  take  out  the 
rind  and  add  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
Beat  them  into  the  jelly,  put  in  a  glass  bowl,  and  serve  in 
saucers. — Mrs.  A.  G. 

Syllabub. 
Half  a  pound  sugar,  three  pints  lukewarm  cream,  one  cupful 
wine.     Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  wine,  then  pour  it  on  the  milk 


428  SLIP — APPLE   SNOW. 

from  a  height  and  slowly,  so  as  to  cause  the  milk  to  froth. — 
Mrs.  E. 

Slip. 
One  quart   milk  (warm  as  when  milked),  one  tablespoonful 
wine  of  the  rennet.     After  the  milk  is  turned,  eat  it  with  a 
dressing  of  cream,  sugar  and  wine. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Bonny-clabber. 
Set  away  the  milk  in  the  bowl  iu  which  it  is  brought  to  the 
table.     If  the  weather  is  warm,  set  it  in  the  refrigerator  after 
it  has  become  clabber. 

Help  each  person  to  a  large  ladleful,  being  careful  not  to 
break  it.  Eat  with  powdered  sugar,  nutmeg  and  cream. — Mrs. 
JS.  T. 

Float. 

To  a  common-sized  glass  bowl  of  cream,  sweetened  with  loaf 
sugar  and  flavored  with  wine,  take  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  three 
large  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  three  of  fruit  jelly.  Do  not  beat 
the  eggs  to  a  froth,  but  put  in  the  jelly  and  sugar  and  beat  all 
together.— J/rs.  T. 

Apple  Float. 
Mash  a  quart  cooked  or  coddled  apples  smooth  through  a 
sieve ;  sweeten  with  six  tablespoonfuls  stigai",  and  flavor  with 
nutmeg.  Then  add  the  apples,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  to  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten.  Put  a  pint  of  cream,  seasoned 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg,  at  the  bottom  of  your  dish,  and  put  the 
apples  on  top. — Mrs.  I.  H. 

Apple  Snow. 
Pare  and  slice  one  dozen  large  apples ;  stew  them  perfectly 
done,  and  run  through  a  colander.     Then  add  whites  of  twelve 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  one  pound  white  sugar.     Eat 
with  sweet  cream. 


A   NICE   DESSERT   OF   APPLES — BAKED    APPLES.  429 

A  Nice  Dessert  of  Apples. 

Pare  angl  weigh  two  pounds  green  apples.  Cut  them  in  small 
pieces,  and  drop  them  in  a  rich  syrup,  made  of  a  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  "  A  "  sugar  and  a  little  water.  As  soon  as  the  syrup 
begins  to  boil,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  laz-ge  lemon 
or  two  small  ones. 

Boil  till  the  apples  become  a  solid  mass.  Turn  out  in  a  wet 
mould  to  stand  till  cold.  Serve  on  a  dish  surrounded  with 
boiled  custard,  or  eat  with  seasoned  cream. — Mrs.  A,  F. 

A  Nice,  Plain  Dessert. 
Peel  and  slice  the  apples,  stew  till  done,  then  run  through  a 
colander  and  sweeten,  season.      Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  just  before  serving  whip   them  into  a  quart 
of  the  stewed  apples.     Eat  with  cream. — Mrs.  T. 

Apple  Compote.  • 

Pare,  core,  and  quarter  the  apples,  wash  them,  and  put  them 
in  a  pan  with  sugar  and  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Add  cin- 
namon, and  lemon  peel  which  has  been  pi'eviously  soaked,  scraped 
and  cut  in  strings.  Boil  gently  till  done  ;  lay  in  a  deep  dish. 
Boil  the  syrup  to  the  proper  consistency,  and  pour  over  the 
apples. — Mrs.  K. 

Nice  Preparation  of  Apples. 
Quarter  and  core  some  well-flavored  apples,  place  in  a  shallow 
tin  pan  or  plate,  sprinkle  thickly  with  white  sugar  and  a  few 
small  pieces  of  cinnamon.  Pour  on  enoiigh  cold  water  to  half 
caver  the  apples,  and  scatter  a  few  small  pieces  of  butter  over 
them.  Cook  slowly  till  thoroughly  done,  then  set  away  to  cool. 
—Mrs.  McG. 

Baked  Apples. 
Pare  and  core  the  apples,  keeping  them  whole.     Put  in  a  bak- 
ing-dish, and  fill  the  holes  with  brown  sugar.       Pour  into  each 


4:30      ICED   APPLES — ICE   CREAM   AND  FROZEN   CU8TAED. 

apple  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  stick  into  each  a  piece  of  lemon 
peel.  Put  enaugli  water  to  prevent  their  burning.  Bake  till 
tender,  but  not  broken.  Set  away  to  cool.  Eat  with  cream  oj 
custard.     They  will  keep  two  days. — ^Irs.  Dr.  tT. 

Iced  Apples. 
Pare  and  core  one  dozen  fine,  firm  apples,  leaving  them  whole. 
Place  in  a  stewpan,  with  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew 
till  you  can  pierce  them  with  a  straw.  Then  remove  from  the 
fire,  and  set  in  a  dish  to  cool.  Then  fill  the  centre  with  currant 
or  some  other  jelly,  and  ice  over  as  you  would  cake.  Serv^e  in  a 
glass  dish,  and  eat  with  rich  cream  or  custard. — Mrs.  A.  D. 


ICE  CREAM  AND  FROZEN  CUSTARD. 

After  haying  tried  many  new  and  patent  freezers,  some  of  the 
best  housekeepers  have  come  to  tjie  conclusion  that  the  old- 
fashioned  freezer  is  the  best.  It  is  well,  however,  to  keep  a 
patent  freezer  on  hand,  in  case  of  your  wanting  ice  cream  on 
short  notice  ;  but  for  common  use  an  old-fashioned  one  is  the 
best,  especially' as  servants  are  so  apt  to  get  a  patent  freezer  out 
of  order. 

The  great  secret  of  freezing  cream  quickly  in  a  common 
freezer  is  to  have  the  cream  and  salt  in  readiness  before  break- 
ing .  the  ice  into  small  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut.  There  must 
be  a  space  of  two  inches  between  the  freezer  and  the  tub  in 
which  it  is  set.  Put  a  little  ice  and  salt  under  the  bottom  of 
the  freezer,  then  pack  alternate  layers  of  ice  and  salt  several 
inches  higher  than  the  cream  is  in  the  fi-eezer.  If  there  is  no 
top  to  the  tub,  with  an  aperture  to  admit  the  freezer,  pin  a 
woollen  cloth  over  it  and  tui-n  the  freezer  rapidly.  When  the 
cream  begins  to  harden  on  the  sides  of  the  freezer,  cut  it  down 


lOB   CBEAM   Airo   FROZEN   CUSTAED.  431 

with  a  knife,  scrape  from  the  sides,  and  beat  with  a  large  iron 
spoon.  Then  cover  again,  and  turn  rapidly  till  it  is  as  hard 
as  mush.  When  the  ice  begins  to  melt,  drain  off  the  salt  and 
water,  adding  more  salt  and  ice,  which  must  be  kept  above  the 
level  of  the  cream  in  the  freezer.  When  done,  tie  large  news- 
papers over  the  tub  and  freezer.  Put  a  woollen  cloth  or  blanket 
over  these,  and  set  the  cream  in  a  dark,  cool  closet  till  wanted. 
In  this  way  it  may  be  kept  for  hours  in  summer,  and  for  days 
in  winter,  and  will  grow  harder  instead  of  melting.  As  cream 
can  be  kept  thus,  it  is  well  to  make  it  early  in  the  day  and  set 
it  aside,  leaving  more  leisure  for  other  preparations  that  are 
better  made  immediately  before  dinner. 

Ice  cream  making,  like  other  branches  of  housekeeping,  is 
much  facilitated  by  having  all  the  ingredients  at  hand  before 
beginning  on  it.  As  such  explicit  directions  for  the  process 
are  given  in  the  subsequent  pages,  it  is  unnecessary  for  me  to 
add  anything  further  on  the  subject.  Unless  you  have  pure 
cream  to  freeze,  it  is  better  to  make  plain  boiled  custard  rather 
than  to  attempt  an  imitation  of  ice  cream. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  make  jelly  and  custard  at  the  same  time, 
so  that  the  yolks  of  eggs  not  used  in  the  jelly  may  be  utilized  in 
custard  either  boiled  or  baked.  The  same  proportions  are  gen- 
erally used  for  boiled  and  baked  custard.  Instead  of  flavoring 
with  extract  of  vanilla,  it  is  much  better  to  boil  a  vanilla  bean 
in  the  milk,  or  to  boil  some  peach  leaves  tied  up  in  a  piece  of 
muslin  (six  or  eight  leaves  to  a  quart  of  milk),  or  to  flavor  it 
with  burnt  sugar.  Never  flavor  custard  with  extract  of  lemon, 
when  you  can  obtain  fresh  lemons  for  the  purpose. 

When  you  have  no  yolks  left  from  making  jelly,  boil  a  quart 
of  milk  (flavored  by  the  above  directions).  Have  ready  three 
eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  together  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  into 
these  stir  a  teacup  of  powdered  white  sugar.  Dip  up  the  boil- 
ing milk,  pour  slowly  on  the  eggs,  Stirling  rapidly.  Wh(m  all 
the  milk  has  been  stirred  in  the  eggs,  wash  out  the  kettle,  put 
the  milk  ind  eggs  back  into  it,  and  let  the  mixture  boil  till  it 


432  ICE   OKEAM — LEMON   ICE   CKEAM. 

begins  to  thicken,  wlien  it  must  be  taken  immediately  from  the 
fire,  poured  into  a  bowl,  and  stirred  till  cold  and  smooth. 

Many  persons,  before  freezing,  stir  in  the  frothed  whites  of 
three  eggs.  The  same  directions  given  for  freezing  cream  apply 
to  the  freezing  of  custard. 

Boiled  custard  should  never  be  used  as  a  substitute  for  cream 
in  making  fruit  ice  creams,  nor  should  ifc  ever  be  eaten  with 
jelly. 

Ice  Cream. 

Dissolve  five  teaspoonfuls  Oswego  starch  or  arrow-root  in  a 
teacup  milk.  Add  to  it  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  frothed, 
and  the  yolk  of  one,  well  beaten. 

Sweeten  with  loaf  sugar  and  boil  half  a  gallon  new  milk.  As 
soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  pour  it  in  small  quantities  over  the 
mixture  of  eggs  and  starch,  till  about  half  the  milk  is  taken  out 
of  the  kettle.  Then  pour  all  back  in  the  kettle  and  stir  a  few 
moments.  After  it  cools,  add  one  quart  rich  cream ;  season  to 
the  taste  and  freeze. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Ice  Cream. 
One  quart  milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  corn  starch,  one 
teaspoonful  arrow-root.     A  small  lump  of  butter. — Mrs.  E.  T>. 

Ice  Cream. 

Cream  one  tablespoonful  butter  from  which  the  salt  has  been 
■washed.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch.  Dissolve  this 
in  half  a  gallon  new  milk,  heated,  sweetened  and  seasoned. 
Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  stir  in  just  before  freezing. — 
Mrs.  Mc  Gr. 

Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

One  gallon  rich  cream,  six  lemons,  first  rubbed  till  soft,  and 
tl^en  gi-ated.  Tie  the  yellow  peel,  which  has  been  grated  ofi",  in 
a  piece  of  coarse  muslin.  Cut  each  lemon  in  half  and  squeeze 
the  juice  from  it.     Strain  the  juice,  and  soak  the  muslin  bag  of 


OKAKGE   ICE   OEEAM — ^PEACH   CKEAM.  433 

lemon  peel  in  it,  squeezing  it  frequently  till  it  becomes  highly 
flavored  and  colored  by  it.     Then  add  two  teacups  of  sugar. 

In  sweetening  the  cream,  allow  a  teacup  of  sugar  to  each 
quart.  Pour  the  juice  into  it  slowly,  carefully  stirring.  Froth 
and  freeze,  reserving  a  portion  of  cream  to  pour  in  as  it  sinks 
in  freezing. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Orange  Ice  Cream. 
Four  oranges,  one  gallon  cream.     Rub  fotir  or  five  lumps  of 
sugar  on  the  orange  peel,  squeeze  the  jiiice  out,  put  the  lumps 
of  sugar  in  it  and  pour  into  the  cream.     Sweeten  heavily  with 
pulverized  sugar  before  freezing. — Mrs.  M. 

Strawberry  Cream. 

Four  quarts  thick  sweet  cream,  four  quarts  strawberries. 
The  berries  must  be  mashed  or  bruised,  caps  and  all,  with  a 
teacup  of  granulated  sugar  to  each  quart.  After  standing 
several  hours,  strain  through  a  thin  coarse  cloth. 

Put  four  teacups  of  white  sugar  to  the  cream,  and  then  add 
the  juice  of  the  berries.  Whip  or  froth  the  cream  with 
a  patent  egg-whip  or  common  egg-beater.  Four  two-thirds  of 
the  cream  into  the  freezer,  reserving  the  rest  to  pour  in  after  it 
begins  to  freeze.  Raspberry  cream  may  be  made  by  the  same 
recipe. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Peach  Cream. 

Take  nice,  soft  peaches,  perfectly  ripe.  Pare  and  chop  fine, 
make  them  very  sweet,  and  mash  to  a  fine  jam.  To  each  quart 
of  peaches,  add  one  jjint  of  cream  aud  one  pint  of  rich  milk. 
Mix  well  and  freeze.  If  you  cannot  get  cream,  melt  an  ounce 
of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  water.  Boil  the  milk,  pour  it  on 
the  gelatine,  and  when  cold,  mix  with  the  peaches. — L.  D.  L. 

Peach   Cream. 
To  two  quarts  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  add  two  teacups  of  sugar. 
Whip  to  a  stiif  froth  with  a  patent  egg- whip,  one  with  a  wheel, 

37 


434  PINEAPPLE   ICE   CREAM VANILLA   ICE   CREAM. 

if  convenient ;  if  not,  use  the  common  egg- whip.  Then  peel 
soft,  lipe  peaches  till  you  have  about  two  quarts.  As  you  peel, 
sprinkle  over  them  two  teacups  powdered  white  sugar.  JMash 
quickly  with  a  silver  tablespoon,  or  run  through  a  colandei',  if 
the  fi'uit  is  not  soft  and  ripe.  Then  stir  into  the  whipped 
cream,  and  pour  into  the  freezer,  reserving  about  one-fourth  to 
add  when  the  cream  begins  to  sink  in  freezing.  When  you  add 
the  remainder,  first  cut  down  the  frozen  cream  from  the  sides 
of  the  freezer.  Beat  hard  with  a  strong  iron  spoon,  whenever 
the  freezer  is  opened  to  cut  down  the  cream,  till  it  becomes  too 
hard.  This  beating  and  cutting  down  is  required  only  for  the 
common  freezer,  the  patent  freezer  needing  nothing  of  the  kind. 

Tie  over  the  freezer  large  newspapers,  to  exclude  the  air,  and 
set  aside  till  wanted. 

Apricot  cream  may  be  made  exactly  by  this  receipt. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream. 

Whip  two  quarts  rich,  sweet  cream  to  a  froth,  with  two  tea- 
cups powdered  white  sugar.  Use  a  patent  egg-whip  with  a 
wheel,  if  convenient ;  if  not,  use  the  common  egg- whip. 

Grate  two  ripe  pineapples,  and  add  to  them  two  teacups 
white  sugar.     When  well  mixed,  stir  into  the  cream. 

Pour  into  the  freezer,  reserving  one-fourth.  When  it  begins 
to  freeze,  it  will  sink';  then  beat  in  the  remainder  with  a  latrong 
iron  spoon.  Beat  every  time  the  freezer  is  opened  to  cut  down 
the  cream  from  the  sides.  Never  cook  fruit  of  any  sort  to  make 
cream. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 
Boil  half  a  vanilla  bean,  cut  in  small  pieces,  in  half  a  pint  of 
lich  new  milk.  When  cool,  strain  and  add  to  two  quarts  thick 
sweet  cream.  Sweeten  with  two  heaping  teacups  powdered 
sugar,  and  whip  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  into  a  freezer,  reserving 
one-fourth  of  the  cream.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  freeze,  stir 
frcm  the  sides  with  a  large  iron  spoon,  and  beat  hard.     Add 


NORVELL   HOUSE   CARAMEL   lOE   CREAM.  435 

the  remaijimg  cream  "when  it  begins  to  sink.  Beat  every  time 
the  freezer  is  opened.  When  frozen,  tie  newspapers  over  the 
freezer  and  bucket,  throw  a  blanket  over  them,  and  set  in  a 
close,  dark  place  till  the  ice  cream  is  wanted, — Mrs.  S.  T. 

l^ORVELL  House  Caramel  Ice  Cream. 
One  gallon  rich,  sweet  cream,  four  teacups  powdered  sugar, 
five  tablespoonfuls  caramel.     Mix  well  and  freeze  hard. 

Caramel. 

Put  in  a  stewpan  one  teacup  nice  brown  sugar  and  half  a 
teacup  water.  Stew  over  a  hot  fire  till  it  biirns  a  little.  If 
too  thick,  make  it  of  the  consistency  of  thin  molasses,  by  adding 
a  little  boiling  water.  Bottle  and  cork,  ready  for  use. — Mrs. 
J.  W.H. 

Caramel  Ice   Creami. 

Three  quarts  cream,  two  pints  brown  sugar,  put  in  a  skillet 
and  stir  constantly  over  a  brisk  fire  until  it  is  dissolved. 
Be  careful  not  to  let  it  bui-n,  however.  While  it  is  melting, 
heat  one  pint  milk,  and  stir  a  little  at  a  time  with  the  dissolved 
sugar.  Then  strain  it,  and  when  cool,  po\ir  it  into  the  cream, 
well  beaten.     Then  freeze. — Mrs.  W.  C.  R. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Half  a  poimd  sweet  chocolate,  twelve  eggs,  one  gallon  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  arrow-root,  sugar  and  vanilla  to  the  taste. 
Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  one  pint  and  a  half  boiled  milk. 
Whip  the  eggs.  Mix  the  arrow-root  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
add  to  the  eggs.  Then  pour  on  one  gallon  boiled  mUk,  and  put 
on  the  fire  to  thicken.  When  cool,  season  and  freeze. — Mrs. 
J),B. 

Chocolate  Ice   Cream. 

Three  quarts  milk,  eight  eggs,  six  ounces  chocolate  dissolved 
in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  arrow- 
root well  mixed  in  cold  milk,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  brown 


436  CHOCOLATE   ICE   CREAM — WHITE  ICE   CREAM. 

sugar,  vanilla  to  the  taste.     Made  like  custard,  and  boiled  very 
thick.— Miss  D.  D. 

Chocolate  Ice   Cream. 
One  quart  morning's  milk,  one-quarter  of  a  pound  chocolate, 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  sugar  to  the  taste.     Boil  as  for  table 
use.     When  ready  to  freeze,  whip  in  one  quart  rich  cream. 

CocoANUT  Ice  Cream. 
One  pound  grated  cocoanut,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pint  cream. 
Stir  the  grated  nut  gradually  into  the  cream.  Boil  gently,  or 
merely  heat  it,  so  as  to  thoroughly  get  the  flavor  of  the  nut. 
Then  pour  the  cream  into  a  bowl  and  stir  in  the  sugar.  When 
cold,  stir  in  three  pints  fresh  cream,  then  freeze. 

Cocoa/nut  Ice  Cream. 
One  cocoanut,  pared  and  grated.    Mix  with  a  quart  of  cream, 
sweeten,  and  freeze. — Mrs.  E.  I. 

Cocoa/nut  Ice  Cream. 
One  grated  nut,  three  and  a  half  quarts  of  milk,  one  pint  of 
cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  arrow-root  mixed  in  a  little  cold  milk. 
Sweeten  to  the  taste,  and  freeze. — Mrs.  D.  M. 

Gelatine  Ice  Cream. 
Soak  one-half  package  of  Cox's  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  morn- 
ing's milk.  Boil  three  pints  of  milk,  and  while  hot,  pour  on  the 
gelatine,  stirring  till  dissolved.  When  cold,  add  two  quarts  of 
cream,  and  sweeten  and  season  to  your  taste.  Then  freeze.  It 
is   improved  by  whipping   the   cream   before   freezing. — Miss 

E.  T. 

White  Ice  Cream. 

Three  quarts  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  light,  three 
tablespoonfuls  arrow-root  mixed  in  a  little  cold  water  and 
added  to  tJie  eggs.     Boil  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  eggs,  etc. 


lOE  OKEAM   WITHOUT   CREAM — FROZEN  CUSTAED.       437 

Thon  put  on  the  fire  and  thicken  a  little.  When  nearly  cold, 
add  a  quart  of  cream.  Sweeten  and  season  to  the  taste  and 
freeze. — Mrs.  D.  R. 

Ice  Crea/m,  without  Cream. 
One  gallon  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  whites  of 
twelve  eggs  well  beaten.  Sweeten  and  scald  the  milk,  and 
pour  it  on  the  eggs,  stirring  all  the  time.  Put  it  in  the  kettle 
again  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Season  to  the  taste  and  freeze  at 
once. — Mrs.  E.   W. 

Bisque  Ice  Cream. 
One  half-gallon  of  freshly  turned  clabber,  one-half  gallon  rich 
sweet  cream,  one  good  vanilla  bean  boiled  in  one-half  pint  sweet 
milk,  sugar  to  the  taste.  Churn  this  five  minutes  before  freez- 
ing. One  can  of  condensed  milk  may  be  used  with  less  clabber. 
Mrs.  R  L.  8. 

Buttermilk  Cream. 
One  gallon  buttermilk,  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  whites  of  four, 
well  beaten  ;  three  pints  sweet  milk.  Boil  the  sweet  milk  and 
pour  on  the  eggs  ;  then  thicken,  stirring  all  the  time.  When 
cool  stir  in  the  buttermilk  slowly,  season  and  sweeten  to  the 
taste,  then  freeze. — Mrs.  D.  JR. 

Caramel  Custard  (M-ozen). 
Make  a  rich  custard,  allowing  a  cup  of  nice  brown  sugar  to 
every  quart.     Stew  the  sugar  till  it  burns  a  little.     Then  mix 
it  with  the  custard  while  both  are  hot.     Boil  two  sticks  cinna- 
mon in  the  custard. — Mrs.  J".  J".  JB. 

Frozen  Custard. 

One  quart  fresh  milk,  eight  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 

separately.     Put  the  milk  on  the  fire,  sweetened   to   the  taste, 

and  let  it  come  to  boiling  heat ;  then  take  it  off  and  add  the 

yolks.     Then  wash  the  kettle  and  put  the  custard  on  the  fire 


438  FROZEN   CTJSTAKD — I'LUM   PUDDING   GLACil. 

again,  and  let  it  boil  till  quite  thick.  Take  it  off,  and  when 
cool  enough,  add  the  whites.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla, 
and  freeze.  —Mrs.  C.  JV. 

Frozen  Custa/rd. 
Twelve  eggs,  one  gallon  milk,  four  lemons,  sugar  to  taste, 
freeze. — J/rs.  Dr.  S. 

Bisque. 
Make  one-half  gallon  rich  boiled  custard,  allowing  six  eggs  to 
each  quart.     Add,  before  taking  it  from  the  fire,  two  pounds 
of  macaroon  almonds.     When  cold,  freeze. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

PLUMBlilRE. 

Make  a  rich  custard,  and  flavor  it  when  cool  with  wine  and 
extract  of  lemon.  When  half  frozen,  add  blanched  almonds, 
chopped  citron,  brandy  peaches  out  up,  and  any  other  brandied 
or  crystallized  fruit.  Make  the  freezer  half  full  of  custard  and 
fill  with  fruit. 

Frozen  Pudding. 

Forty  blanched  almonds  pounded  rather  fine,  one  ounce 
citron  cut  in  small  squares,  two  ounces  currants,  two  ounces 
raisins  stoned  and  divided.  Soak  all  in  two  wine-glasses  wine, 
all  night.  Make  custard  of  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk.  If  cream, 
use  yolks  of  four  eggs  ;  if  milk,  yolks  of  eight  eggs.  Make  a 
syrup  of  one  pound  white  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water.  When 
nearly  boiling,  put  in  the  fruit  and  wine  and  boil  one  minute. 
When  cool,  mix  with  the  custard.  Whip  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  the  custard  and  syrup  after  they  are 
mixed.     Add  last  a  wine-glass  of  brandy.— Jl/iss  JE.  Wi 

Plum  Pudding  Glac^. 
To  one  pint  cream  or  new  milk,  stir  in  thoroughly  two  table- 
spoonfuls  arrow-root.     Boil  three  pints  milk,  and  while  boiling 
add  the  cold  cream  and  arrow-root,  also  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  sugar  to  the  taste.     When  cold  season  with  vanilla  lieauj 


CBEAM  8HEKBKT A  NEW  RECIPE  FOfi  LEMON  SHEKBET.    439 

and  stix  in  half  a  pound  cut  citron,  half  a  pound  currants, 
half  a  pound  raisins  cut  and  seeded.  Freeze  hard  and  serve  in 
moulds.— il!fr«.  T. 

Cream  Sherbet. 
Three  quarts  water,  four  lemons,  whites  of  six  eggs,  one 
pound  and  two  ounces  sugar,  one  pint  sweet  cream.  Mix  one- 
half  the  sugar  with  the  cream  and  eggs,  which  must  be  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth  ;  mix  the  rest  of  the  sugar  with  the  water  and 
lemons.     Mix  all  together  just  before  freezing. — Mrs.  A.  P. 

Lemon  Sherbet. 
Take  one  dozen  lemons,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  then  slice  the 
rind  and  pour  over  it  six  quarts  boiling  water.  Mix  three 
pounds  sugar  with  the  lemon  juice,  and  one  quart  milk,  brought 
to  a  boil  and  thickened  with  three  tablespoonfuls  arrow-root  or 
corn-starch.  Be  careful  to  remove  all  the  seed  and  most  of  the 
rind,  leaving  only  a  few  slices  to  make  the  dish  pretty.  After 
the  lemonade  begins  to  freeze,  stir  in  the  thickened  milk,  and 
the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

Lemon  Sherhet. 
One  dozen  good  lemons,  whites  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
three  pounds    white   sugai-,  one  gallon  water.      Stir  all    well 
together  and  add  one  quart  nice  fresh  cream.     Stir  often  while 
freezing. — Miss  E.  T. 

Lemon  Slierhet. 
Two  quarts  water,  four  large  lemons,  one  pound  and  a  half 
sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs.  Rub  some  lump.«  >f  sugar  on  the 
rind  of  the  lemons.  Powder  some  of  'the  sugar,  beat  it  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  lemonade  when  ifc 
begins  to  freeze. — Mrs.  M. 

A  new  Redpe  for  Lemon  Sherhet. 
Make  one  and  a  half  gallon  rather  acid  lemonade,  grating 


440  ORANGE   SHERBET — ^PINEAPPLE   ICE. 

the  peel  of  three  or  four  of  the  lemons  before  straining  the 
juice  into  the  water.  Let  it  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Then  make 
and  add  to  it  the  following  mixture  :  pour  a  pint  cold  water 
over  one  box  gelatine  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour ;  then  pour 
over  it  one  pint  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stand  till  thoroughly 
dissolved.  Beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  with  two  pounds  pul- 
verized sugar  till  as  thick  as  icing;  then  churn  a  quart  rich 
cream  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pint ;  then  beat  the  froth  of  the 
cream  into  the  egg  and  sugar.  Pour  in  gradually  the  lemonade, 
beating  all  the  time  so  as  to  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  freeze. 
Delicious. — Mrs.  F.  G.  W. 

Orange  Sherbet. 
One  gallon  water,  twelve   oranges,  juice  of  three  lemons, 
whites  of  six  eggs.     Rub  some  lumps  of  sugar  on  the  orange 
peel.     Mix  as  lemon  sherbet,  and  freeze. — Mrs.  M. 

Orange  Ice. 
One  dozen  oranges,  juice  of  two  lemons,  two  quarts  water; 
sugar  to  the   taste.     Rind  of  four  oranges  grated  on  sugar. 
Freeze  as  u-sual. — Mrs.   Q.  D.  L. 

Orange  Ice. 

Juice  of  nine  oranges,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  and  one-quar- 
ter pounds  powdered  sugar,  two  quarts  water.  To  be  frozen. — 
Mrs.  I.  H. 

Pineapple  Ice. 

To  a  two-pound  can  of  pineapples  add  three  quarts  water, 
half  a  box  gelatine  (prepared  as  for  jelly),  juice  of  two  oranges, 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Remove  the  black  and  hard  pieces  of  pine- 
apple, then  pass  it  through  the  colander  by  beating  with  a  po- 
tato-masher.    Sweeten  to  your  taste  and  freeze. — Mrs.  I.  S. 

Pineapple  Ice. 
One  large  pineapple  peeled  and  finely  grated,  juice  of  one 


PINBAPPLK  lOB — GELATINJ!  ICE.  441 

lemon,  two  quarts  water.     Sweeten  to  .the  taste,  and  freezo 
hard.— ilfrs.  G.  D.  L. 

JPineapple  Ice. 

Dissolve  one  box  gelatine  in  one  gallon  water.  Beat  two 
pounds  pineapple  through  a  colander  with  a  wooden  pestle. 
Add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  two  oranges ; 
sweeten  to  your  taste,  but  add  more  sugar  than  is  required  for 
ice  cream. 

Beat  six  eggs  separately  and  stir  in  the  mixture.  When  half 
frozen,  beat  rapidly  half  a  dozen  times,  at  intervals. 

This  makes  two  gallons  when  frozen. — Mrs.  E.  T. 

Citron  Ice.  • 

Slice  citron,  pour  on  it  a  rich,  hot  lemonade,  and  freeze.  — 
Mrs.  E.I. 

Raspberry  Ice. 

Three  quarts  juice,  one  quart  water.  Sweeten  heavily,  and 
after  putting  in  the  freezer  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten 
very  light.  The  same  recipe  will  answer  for  currant  or  cherry 
ice. — Mrs.  M.  C.  C. 

Watermelon  Ice  {beautiful  cmd  delicious). 
Select  a  ripe  and  very  red  melon.  Scrape  some  of  the  pulp 
and  use  all  the  water.  A  few  of  the  seeds  interspersed  will  add 
greatly  to  the  appearance.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  freeze  as 
you  would  any  other  ice.  If  you  wish  it  very  light,  add  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  thoi'oughly  whipped,  to  oiie  gallon  of  the 
icing  just  as  it  begins  to  congeal.  Beat  frequently  and  very 
hard  with  a  large  iron  spoon. — Mrs.  J.  I. 

Gelatine  Ice. 
Let  one  ounce  sparkling  gelatine  stand  an  hour  in  a  pint  of 
cold  water.     Then  add  three  pints  boiling  water,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  loaf  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pint  wine,  juice  of 

19* 


442  AMBROSIA PEACHES   AND   CKEAM. 

three  lemons,  I'ind  of  two  lemons.     Stir  all  these  ingredients 
and  freeze  before  allowing  it  to  congeal.     Delicious. 

Ambrosia. 
Pare  and  slice  as  many  oranges  as  you  choose,  in  a  glass  bowl 
Sprinkle  sugar  and  grated  cocoanut  over  each  layer. — Mrs.  W. 

an. 

Ambrosia. 
Cut  pineapple  and  orange  in  slices,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
put  in  a  deep  dish  alternately  to  form  a  pyramid.     Put  grated 
cocoanut  between  each  layer.     If  you  like,  pour  good  Madeira 
or  sherry  wine  over  the  dish. — Mrs.  T. 

*  Pineapple. 

Peel  and  slice  thin,  just  before  eating.  Sprinkle  pulverized 
sugar  over  it,  but  nothing  else,  as  the  flavor  of  this  delicious 
fruit  is  impaired  by  adding  other  ingredients.  Keep  on  ice  till 
wanted. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Watermelons. 

Keep  on  ice  till  wanted.  If  lacking  in  sweetness,  sprinkle 
powdered  sugar  over  them. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cantaleupes. 

Cut  out  carefully  the  end  with  the  stem,  making  a  hole  large 

enough  to  admit  an  apple.     With  a  spoon,   remove  the   seed. 

Fill  with  ice,  replace  the  round  piece  taken  out,  and  place  on 

end.     Eat  with  powdered  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Peaches  and  Cream. 
While  the  first  course  is  being  served,  peaches  should  be 
pared  and  split,  and  the  stones  removed.  Lay  in  a  glass  bowl 
and  sprinkle  liberally  with  powdered  sugar.  No  fruit  should 
be  sweetened  till  just  before  eating.  Ornament  the  edges  ol 
the  bowl  with  any  handsome,  glossy  leaves  convenient,  and 
serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


strawbekkies — ^peeserves  and  fruit  jellies.     443 

Stbawberries 
Should  never  be  washed  vmless  sand  or  earth  adheres  to 
them.  Cap  carefully  while  the  first  course  is  being  served,  or, 
if  more  convenient,  you  may  cap  in  the  morning,  but  never 
sweeten  till  just  before  eating,  as  sweetening  long  beforehand 
extracts  the  juice  and  makes  the  fruit  tough.  Set  it  on  ice,  or 
in  a  refrigerator.  No  ice  must  be  put  on  fruit.  Serve  with 
cream  that  has  been  set  on  ice.  Decorate  the  edges  of  the  bow] 
with  strawberry  leaves. 

The  same  directions  will  apply  to  raspberries,  blackberries, 
and  dewberries.  Whortleberries  may  be  washed,  picked,  and 
drained,  though  not  sweetened  till  dinner. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


PRESERVES   AND  FRUIT  JELLIES. 

.  Always  make  preserves  in  a  porcelain  or  brass  kettle.  If  the 
latter,  have  it  scoured  first  with  sand,  then  with  salt  and  vine- 
gar. Then  scald  it  and  put  in  the  sugar  and  water  for  the 
syrup. 

In  peeling  fruit,  throw  it  into  cold  water  to  keep  it  from 
turning  dark,  and  let  it  remain  there  till  you  are  ready  in 
throw  it  in  the  boiling  syrup.  Bear  in  mind  that  exposure  to 
the  air  turns  peeled  fruit  dark. 

Boil  rather  quickly.  In  preserving  fruit  whole,  boil  it  a 
short  time  in  the  syrup,  take  it  out,  let  it  get  cold,  and  then 
put  it  again  in  the  kettle. 

Cut  sugar  is  best  for  preserves  which  you  wish  to  be  clear 
and  light-colored,  but  nice  brown  sugar  is  best  for  dark-colored 
jams  and  marmalades,  such  as  those  made  of  blackberries,  rasp- 
berries, whortleberries,  etc. 

The  best  peaches  for  preserving,  brandying,  or  pickling,  are 
white  freestone  peaches,   not  quite  ripe  enough  to  eat  with 


444  SWEETMEAT   PKESEEVE8. 

cream.  Pears  and  quinces  also  should  be  preserved  before  thej 
are  quite  ripe  enough  for  eating.  They  should  be  parboiled 
before  eating.  No  fruit  should  be  over-ripe  when  preserved. 
Damsons  and  blue  plums  should  be  slit  lengthwise  with  a  pen 
knife,  and  set  in  the  sun  before  preserving,  which  will  render 
it  easy  to  extract  the  stones.  Cherries  also  should  be  stoned 
before  preservdng.  A  piece  of  paper  dipped  in  brandy  and  laid 
z>ix  top  the  preserves  will  help  to  keep  them.  I  would  suggest 
to  housekeepers  that  they  always  put  their  preserves  in  glass 
jars  with  screw  tops.  By  this  means  they  can  readily  inspect 
it  and  see  if  it  is  keeping  well,  without  the  trouble  of  untying 
the  jar  and  looking  inside,  as  would  be  necessary  in  the  case  of 
stone  jars. 

Set  the  jar  of  preserves,  if  they  become  dry  or  candied,  in  a 
pot  of  cold  water,  which  allow  to  come  gradually  to  a  boil.  If 
the  preserves  ferment,  boil  them  over  with  more  sugar. 

The  great  secret  of  making  nice  fruit  jelly  is  to  boil  the  syrup 
well  before  adding  the  sugar  (which  should  always  be  loaf  or 
cut),  and  you  should  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  the 
juice  in  acid  fruit  jellies,  though  less  will  answer  for  sweet 
fruit.  By  boiling  the  syrup  well  before  adding  the  sugar,  the 
flavor  and  color  of  the  fruit  are  retained.  Keep  the  jelly  in 
small,  common  glasses. 

Sweetmeat  Preserves. 

Cut  the  rind  in  any  shapes  fancied  (such  as  flowers,  fruits, 
leaves,  grapes,  fish,  etc.),  put  it  in  brine  strong  enough  to  float 
an  egg,  cover  closely  with  grape  leaves,  and  set  away  the  jar. 
When  ready  to  make  the  preserves,  soak  the  rind  in  fresh 
water,  changing  it  till  all  taste  of  salt  is  removed  from  the  rind. 
Dissolve  four  tablespoonfuls  pulverized  alum  in  one  gallon 
water.  Lay  the  rind  in  this,  covered  closely  with  grape  or 
cabbage  leaves.  Simmei  till  it  becomes  a  pretty  green,  then 
soak  out  the  alum  by  throwing  the  rind  in  soft  water. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  half  a  pound  white  ginger,  and  let  it 


WATERMELON   OE  MUSKMELON   MAKMALADE.  445 

stand  long  enough  to  soften  sufficiently  to  slice  easily  in  thin 
pieces  (retaining  the  shapes  of  the  races  as  much  as  possible). 
Then  boil  it  an  hour  in  half  a  gallon  water,  and  add  one  ounce 
mace  and  two  pounds  best  cut  sugar.  This  makes  a  thin  syrup, 
in  which  boil  the  rind  gently  for  half  an  hour,  adding  water  to 
keep  the  rind  covered  with  syrup. 

Set  the  kettle  away  for  four  days  and  then  boil  again  as  be- 
fore, adding  two  pounds  sugar  and  more  water,  if  necessary. 
Repeat  the  boiling  six  or  seven  times,  till  the  syrup  is  rich  and 
thick  and  sufficient  to  cover  the  rind. 

The  quantity  of  seasoning  given  above  is  for  three  gallons 
rind.  Allow  two  pounds  sugar  to  each  pound  fruit.  This 
sweetmeat  keeps  indefinitely  and  never  ferments. — Mrs.  F.  M.  G. 

Watermelon  or  Muskmelon  Marmalade. 
Weigh  twelve  pounds  rind,  previously  soaked  in  brine,  and 
the  salt  extracted  by  fresh  water,  parboil,  put  on  with  twelve 
pounds  sugar  made  into  a  thin  syrup,  and  boil  to  pieces.  Add 
the  peelings  of  twelve  oranges  and  twelve  lemons,  previously 
soaked  in  water,  cut  in  strips  and  boiled  extrmeley  soft,  the 
water  being  changed  three  times  while  boiling.  Stir  con- 
stantly fromthe  bottom  with  a  batter-cake  turner.  Cook  very 
thick.     Put  in  wide-mouthed  glass  jars  — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Ripe  Muskmelon  or  Watermelon  Preserves, 
During  the  summer,  peel  and  slice  indifferent  cantaleupes 
(such  as  you  do  not  care  to  eat),  especially  such  as  are  not  quite 
ripe.  Throw  them  into  brine,  together  with  your  thickest  wa- 
termelon rinds,  peeling  off  the  outside  skin.  When  you  have 
enough,  weigh  them,  throw  them  in  fresh  water,  which  change 
daily  tilj  the  salt  is  extracted.  Boil  in  a  preserving  kettle  till 
soft  enough  to  pierce  with  a  straw.  Make  a  syrup,  allowing 
one  pound  sugar  for  each  pound  fruit.  When  it  boils,  put  the 
rind  in  it  and  simmer  steadily  till  the  rind  is  transparent  and 
the  syrup  thick.     When  cool,  add  the  juice  and  gi-ated  rind  of 


446      RIPE  MUSKMELON  PKE8ERVE8 — ORANGE  PRESERVES. 

twelve  lemons.  Let  it  stand  in  a  bowl  several  days.  Then 
strain  tlie  syrup  (which  will  have  become  thin),  boil  it  again, 
pour  over  the  rind,  and  put  the  preserves  in  glass  jai's  with 
screw  tops. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Ripe  Muskmelon  Preserves. 

Peel  and  slice  the  melons,  soak  them  twenty-four  hours  in 
salt  water,  twenty-four  hours  in  alum  water,  and  twenty-four 
hours  in  fresh  water,  changing  the  latter  several  times.  Then 
make  a  strong  ginger  tea,  in  which  boil  them  slowly  till  they 
taste  of  ginger. 

Make  a  syrup,  allowing  a  pound  and  a  half  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit,  and  adding  mace  and  sliced  ginger  (the  latter 
must  be  soaked  in  boiling  water  twelve  hours  before  it  is  wanted). 
Cook  the  melon  in  the  syrup  till  clear  and  tender.  You  may 
use  sliced  lemons  as  a  seasoning  instead  of  ginger. — Mrs.  M.  L. 

Pineapple  Preserves. 
Parboil  the  pineapples,  then  peel  and  cut  in  thick  slices, 
carefully  taking  out  the  cores,  which,  if  allowed  to  remain,  will 
cause  the  preserves  to  ferment.  Put  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a 
pound  of  fruit,  and  let  it  remain  all  night  to  make  the  syrup. 
Boil  then  till  done,  without  adding  a  drop  of  water  to  the  syrup. 
—Mrs.  F.  a 

Orange  Preserves. 
Peel  a  thin  rind  off  the  oranges  and  make  a  hole  in  each  end, 
getting  out  all  the  seed.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let 
them  stand  till  next  morning.  If  the  water  tastes  bitter,  search 
for  seed.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them  eveiy  day,  as  long  as 
the  bitterness  remains.  Boil  till  soft  enough  to  run  a  straw 
through  them.  Add  a  pound  and  a  half  sugar  to  each  pound 
fniit.  Make  a  thin  syrnp  of  half  the  sugar,  and  boil  the  oranges 
in  it  a  short  time.  Let  them  stand  in  the  syrup  three  days, 
then  pour  the  syruj  from  the  fruit,  put  the  rest  of  the  sugar  to 


OBANGE   MARMALADE SLICED   LEMON   PRESERVES.     44'J 

it,  and  boil  it  down  thick.     Then  pour  it  over  the  fruit.     A 
few  lemons  added  is  a  great  improvement. — Mrs.  tF.  H. 

Orange  Marmalade. 
Peel  the  oranges,  taking  all  the  seed  and  tough  skin  out  of 
them.  Cut  the  peel  in  small  pieces,  put  in  cold  water  and  boil 
till  tender.  Make  a  syrup,  one  pound  sugar  to  one  pint  water. 
Put  a  pound  of  the  oranges  (mixed  with  the  peel)  to  a  pint  of 
the  syrup,  and  boil  all  for  two  hours. — Mrs.  C.  C.  McP. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

The  day  before  making,  peel  one  dozen  oranges  (no  matter 
how  sour  and  indifferent).  Throw  the  peel  in  a  bucket  of 
water,  take  out  the  seed,  cut  up  the  pulp  fine  with  a  pair  of 
old  scissors.  Then  take  the  peel,  cut  it  in  thin  strips  and  throw 
it  into  fresh  water.  Pare  and  slice  pippins  (or  auy  other  nice 
apple).  Weigh  six  pounds  of  them,  stew  with  a  little  water  till 
pei'jectly  done,  and  set  away.  Next  day,  run  this  pulp  through 
a  co\ander  into  a  preserving  kettle.  Add  six  pounds  sugar  and 
boil  siowly,  constantly  scraping  from  tlie  bottom. 

Tajt.e  the  orange  peel  (which  should  have  been  left  in  soak  all 
night}^  boil  till  perfectly  soft  and  free  from  bitterness,  changing 
the  Welter  three  times  while  boiling.  In  another  preserving 
kettle,  simmer  this  with  the  orange  pulp  and  two  pounds  sugar. 
When  both  are  nearly  done,  turn  the  oranges  into  the  apples 
and  cook  them  very  thick.  Cool  in  a  bowl,  and  then  put  in  a 
glass  jar  with  a  screw  top. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Sliced  Lemon  Preserves. 
Take  large,  firm  lemons,  not  quite  ripe,  cut  in  slices  one- 
quarter  inch  thick,  and  take  out  the  seed.  Soak  in  brine  a  week. 
Then  soak  several  days  in  clear  water,  changing  the  water  twice 
a  day.  When  all  the  salt  and  the  bitter  taste  are  extracted, 
weigh  the  lemons  and  boil  till  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a 
straw.     Make  a  thin  syrup,  allowing  one  pound  of  sugar  to 


448  LEMON   MARMALADE PEAOH   PRESERVES. 

each  pound  of  fruit.  Put  the  lemons  in  and  let  them  simmei 
slowly  a  good  many  hours.  Pour  into  a  large  bowl  and  let  it 
remain  there  several  days.  At  the  end  of  that  time  strain  the 
syrup  (which  will  have  become  thin),  put  the  lemons  in  it 
again,  and  boil  till  they  jelly.  When  cool  put  in  a  glass  jar 
with  a  screw  top.  The  same  recipe  may  be  used  for  oranges. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

Lemon  Marmalade. 

Every  housekeeper  should  keep  a  large  jar,  or  other  nice 
vessel,  filled  with  brine,  in  which  she  may  throw  lemon  peels 
after  being  deprived  of  the  grated  rind  and  juice,  used  for 
creams,  jellies,  etc.  These  may  remain  any  length  of  time,  to 
suit  one's  convenience.  Before  preserving,  soak  in  pure  water 
till  all  the  taste  of  salt  is  extracted.  Boil  til]  soft  enough  to 
pierce  with  a  straw.  Then  put  in  a  preserving  kettle  nine 
pounds  cut  sugar  and  one  quart  water.  As  soon  as  it  boils,  add 
six  pounds  lemon  peel  and  three  pounds  nice  sliced  apples 
(pippins  are  best).     Boil  till  very  thick. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Lemon  Peeserves 
May  be  made  of  lemon  peel,  prepared  exactly  by  the  above 
recipe.  Put  the  peel  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  keep  covered, 
while  boiling  in  clear  water,  till  you  can  run  a  straw  through 
it.  Then  throw  it  into  a  i-ich  syrup  (one  pound  sugar  to  one 
of  lemon  peel),  and  boil  a  long  time.  Put  in  a  bowl  till  the 
next  day ;  then  take  the  syrup  (which  will  be  somewhat  thin) 
and  boil  again  till  very  thick.  Pour  it  over  the  lemon,  and  wheu 
cold  it  will  be  jellied.— Jfrs.  S.  T. 

Peach  Preserves. 

Pare  white  freestone  peaches,  not  quite  ripe.  Split  in  half, 
take  out  the  stones,  and  throw  the  peaches  in  a  bucket  of  water 
to  prevent  them  from  turning  dark.  Make  a  syrup  of  white 
sugar,  using  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  you  have  pounds  of 
peaches.     When  it  has  boiled  thick,  put  in  as  many  peaches  ac 


PEAOH   PBBSERVES — BKANDY   PEACHES,  449 

will  cover  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Let  them  boil  till  nearly 
done ;  then  take  them  out,  one  by  one,  in  a  perforated  spoon. 
Lay  them  in  dishes  and  set  in  the  sun.  When  all  the  peaches 
have  been  carried  through  this  process,  put  back  the  first  dish 
of  peaches  in  the  kettle,  taking  them  out  when  a  pretty  amber 
color,  and  so  on  till  all  have  been  boiled  twice.  Meantime  the 
peach-kernels  should  have  been  scalded  and  skinned.  Put  them 
in  the  boiling  syrup,  which  must  be  kept  on  the  fire  till  very 
thick.  Put  the  peaches  when  cool  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  the 
syrup  over  them.  In  a  few  days  examine,  and  if  the  syrup  has 
become  thin,  boil  again. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Peach  Preserves. 
Pare,  and  add  to  a  pound  of  peaches  one  and  one-quarter 
pounds  best  sugar.  Cook  very  fast  for  a  few  moments,  in  a 
porcelain  kettle.  Turn  out  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  muslin  or 
cambric,  set  in  the  sun,  stirring  every  day  till  they  seem  quite 
transparent.  They  retain  their  flavor  much  better  this  way  than 
when  cooked  on  the  fire.  Put  in  jars,  cover  with  paper  saturated 
with  brandy,  and  tie  up  tightly  to  exclude  the  air. — Mrs,  P.  Wl 

Peach  Marmalade. 
Boil  twelve  pounds  soft  peaches  in  a  little  water.  When  re- 
duced to  a  pulp,  run  through  a  colander  and  boil  again  till  very 
thick,  constantly  scraping  fx'om  the  bottom.  Add  half  a  pound 
sugar  to  one  pound  fruit.  Cool  in  a  bowl,  and  then  put  in  glass 
jars  with  screw  tops.  Pear  marmalade  may  be  made  by  the 
same  recipe,  and  also  apple  marmalade,  except  that  you  flavor 
the  last  with  lemon  juice  and  rind. — -Mrs.  S.  T. 

Brandy  Peaches. 

For  twelve  pounds  large  freestone  Heath  peaches,  not  quite 

ripe  and  delicately  pared,  make  a  syrup  of  four  pounds  sugar. 

Scald  a  few  peaches  at  a  time  in  the  syrup,  till  all  have  gone 

through  this  process.     Place  on  dishes  to  cool.     Then  put  in 

38 


450  BRANDY   PEACHES CRAB    APPLE   PRESERVES. 

glass  jars  and  add  enougli  good  whiskey  or  brandy  to  the  syrup 
to  CDver  the  peaches.  Any  spirit  will  do,  if  strong  enough. 
Add  a  few  blanched  peach-kernels.  In  a  few  days  see  if  more 
liquor  or  sugar  is  required.  If  so,  drain  oif  the  syrup,  add  what 
is  needed,  and  pour  again  over  the  fruit.  It  is  a  mistake  to  put 
too  much  sugar.      Always  use  freestone  peaches. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

IBrandy  Peaches. 
Put  the  peaches  (a  few  at  a  time)  in  boiling  lye.  Let  them 
remain  five  minutes,  to  loosen  the  fur.  Then  take  them  out  and 
wipe  perfectly  clean  and  white.  Then  drop  them  in  cold  water. 
Boil  them  gently  in  a  rich  syrup  till  a  straw  will  pierce  them. 
Then  put  in  a  jar,  and  mix  equal  parts  of  French  brandy  with 
the  syrup.     Carefully  exclude  the  air. — Mrs.   Gr.  N. 

Pear  Preserves. 
Scald  the  fruit,   but  do  not  let  it  remain  till  it  comes  to 
pieces.     Boil  till  clear,  in  a  syrup  made  of  as  many  pounds  of 
sugar  as  you  have  of  fruit. — Mrs.  JT.  J'.  A. 

Preserved  Apples  for  Winter  Use. 
Pare  and  slice  pippins.     Put  to  each  pound  apples   half  a 
pound  sugar,  and  to  every  eight  pounds  thus  sweetened  one 
quart  water,  a  few  cloves,  the  thin  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Stew  till  clear,  and  eat  with  cream. — Mrs.  JB.  JT.  S. 

Apple  Mange. 
Stew  and  mash  well  three  pounds  pippins,  thea  add  three 
pounds  sugar.  Just  before  they  are  done,  add  a  few  drops 
lemon  juice.  Put  in  moulds  and  it  will  keep  two  years. 
Turned  out  and  sliced,  it  is  a  nice  dish  for  tea.  Quirces  are  as 
nice  as  apples,  prepared  this  way. — 3Irs.  S.  J".  S. 

Crab  Apple  Preserves. 
Put  the  crab  apples  in  a  kettle,  with  some  alum,  keeping 


QUINCE   JAM CHEKEY   PRESERVES.  4-51 

fchem  scalding  hot  for  an  hour.  Take  them  out,  skin  and  ex- 
tract the  seed  with  a  small  knife,  leaving  on  the  stems.  Put 
them  in  cold  water  awhile,  then  take  them  out,  wipe  them  and 
put  them  in  a  syrup  made  of  as  many  pounds  sugar  as  you  have 
of  fruit.  Let  them  stew  gently  till  they  look  clear,  then  take 
them  out  and  let  the  syrup  boil  longei-.  Siberian  crabs  may  be 
preserved  in  the  same  way,  except  that  they  are  not  peeled  and 
cored.     - 

Quince  Jam. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  them  remain  till  the 
skin  rubs  off  easily.  Then  peel  them  and  cut  off  the  fair  slices. 
To  each  pound  put  twelve  ounces  sugar,  and  let  them  stew 
together  till  the  syrap  is  sufficiently  thick. 

Quince  preserves  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe  as  that 
used  for  pears. 

Damson  Preserves. 

With  a  sharp  penknife,  cut  a  long  slit  lengthwise  in  each  dam- 
son. Spread  in  dishes  and  set  in  the  sun  till  the  seed  comes 
out  readily.  Then  boil  till  thoroughly  done  in  a  thick  syrup 
made  of  as  many  pounds  sugar  as  there  are  pounds  of  damsons. 

Preserve  green  gage  plums  and  other  plums  by  the  same 
recipe. — Jifiss  JP. 

Fox  Grape  Preserves. 

Seed  the  grapes,  then  pour  scalding  water  on  them  and  let 
them  stand  till  cold  ;  then  draw  off  the  water,  put  one  pound 
sugar  to  one  pound  of  grapes,  and  boil  gently  about  twenty  min- 
utes. — Mrs.  A.  JD. 

Cherry  Preserves. 

Wash,  pick  and  stone  the  cherries,  saving  the  juice.  Allow 
one  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  fruit.  Boil  the  juice  and  sugar 
to  a  thick  syrup,  then  put  in  half  the  cherries  and  stew  till 
nearly  done.  Take  them  out  with  a  perforated  spoon  and  lay 
on  dishes.  Pat  in  the  other  half,  let  them  stew  as  long  as  the 
first ;  then  take  out  and  lay  in  dishes.     Meantime  boil  the  syrup 


4:52  8TKAWBEKKY   PKBSERVES — FIG   PKESERVES. 

gently.  When  the  cherries  are  cool,  put  them  again  in  the  syrup 
and  boil  a  short  time.  Pour  in  a  large  bowl  and  cool,  then  put 
in  glass  jars  and  cover  tightly. 

Scarlet  short  stems  and  large  wax  cherries  are  best  for  pre- 
serving.— Mrs.  S.  T. 

Strawberry  Preserves. 

Cap  the  berries.  Put  one  and  a  half  pounds  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit.  Let  them  stand  two  or  three  hours,  and  then  boil 
thirty  minutes. 

Strawberry  Jam. 

Cap  and  wash  the  berries,  and  put  them  on  to  stew  with  a  very 
small  quantity  of  water.  Stir  constantly.  When  thoroughly 
done  and  mashed  to  a  soft  pulp,  add  one  pound  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit.  The  advantage  of  adding  sugar  last  is  that  it  px'e- 
serves  the  color  and  flavor  of  the  fruit.  Stew  till  suf&ciently 
thick,  scraping  constantly  from  the  bottom  with  a  batter-cake 
turner. — Mrs.  tS.  T. 

Raspberry  Jam. 

Wash  and  pick  the  berries,  boil  with  a  little  water,  mashing 
and  scraping  from  the  bottom  as  they  simmer.  When  reduced 
to  a  thick  pulp,  add  one-half  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  berries. 
Stew  tin  very  thick,  scraping  constantly  from  the  bottom.  Cool 
in  a  large  bowl,  then  put  in  a  glass  jar  ^vith  screw  top.  Black- 
berry, Dewberry,  and  Whortleberry  Jam  may  be  made  by  the 
same  recipe. 

Fig  Preserves. 

Pick  the  figs  fully  ripe  the  evening  before.  Cut  off  about 
half  the  stem,  and  let  them  soak  all  night  in  very  weak  salt  and 
water.  Drain  off  the  salt  water  in  the  morning  and  cover  them 
with  fresh.  Make  a  thick  syrup,  allowing  three-quarters  jDound 
loaf  sugar  to  each  pound  fruit.  When  it  boils,  drop  the  figs 
carefully  in  and  let  them  cook  till  they  look  clear.  When  done 
take  from  the  fire  and  season  with  extract  of  lemon  or  singer. 


TOMATO  PEESERVE8 — ^KECLPE  FOK  PUTTING  UP  FKUIT.    453 

The  figs  must  not  be  peeled,  as  the  salt  water  removes  the 
rough  Qess  from  the  skin  and  keeps  the  fruit  firm  and  hard. — 
Miss  A.  S. 

Tomato  Preserves  (either  ripe  or  green). 
The  Jay  before  preserving,  peel  and  weigh  eight  pounds  pale 
y  slloM ,  pear-shaped  or  round  tomatoes,  not  quite  ripe ;  spread 
on  dishes  alternate  layers  of  tomato  and  sugar,  mixing  with  the 
latter  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  four  lemons.  In  the  morn- 
ing, drain  off  the  juice  and  sugar  and  boil  to  a  thick  syrup. 
Drop  in  half  the  tomatoes  and  boil  till  transparent.  Take  up 
with  a  perforated  spoon  and  put  on  dishes  to  cool.  Then  carry 
the  other  half  through  exactly  the  same  process.  Then  strain 
the  juice,  wash  the  kettle,  and  put  in  the  juice  again.  When  it 
boils  hard,  put  in  again  the  first  boiled  tomatoes.  Take  them 
out  when  they  become  amber  color,  and  put  in  the  rest.  When 
they  are  all  boiled  to  an  amber  color,  and  cooled  on  dishes,  put 
them  in  half-gallon  glass  jars,  and  add  the  syrup  after  it  has 
been  boiled  to  a  thick  jelly. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Green  Tomato  Sweetmeats. 
SHce  the  tomatoes  and  soak  them  a  day  and  night  in  salt  and 
water,  then  in  fresh  water  for  an  hour  or  two,  then  scald  in 
alum  water  with  grape  leaves.  When  taken  out  of  alum  water, 
put  in  cold  water  to  cook.  Scald  in  ginger-tea  and  again  put 
in  cold  water,  while  you  make  the  syrup.  To  each  pound  toma- 
toes put  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  siigar  and  a  few  races  of 
white  ginger.  Cook  the  tomatoes  till  clear,  the  syrup  till  thick. 
When  cool,  season  the  syrup  with  essence  of  lemon  and  pour 
over  the  tomatoes. — Mrs.  G.  M. 

Eecipe  for  putting  UP  Fruit. 

For  fruit  not  very  acid,  weigh  one-quarter  of  a  pound  white 

sugar  to  one  pound  fruit  perfectly  ripe.      After  sprinkling  the 

fruit  with  sugar,  put  it  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  let  it  just 

como  to  a  boil.     Then  put  it  quickly  in  glass  self-sealing  cans, 


454  CANDIED  FEUIT — CUKEANT  JELLY  WITHOUT  COOKINO. 

being  careful  to  screw  down  the  tops  tightly. — Mrs.  Dr.  JB. 
T.E. 

Candied  Fruit. 

Preserve  the  fruit,  then  dip  it  in  sugar  boiled  to  a  candied 
thickness,  and  dry  it.  Grapes  and  some  other  fruits  may  be 
dipped  in  uncooked. 

Lemon  Conserves. 

Wash  and  dry  ten  lemons.  Pare  the  yellow  rind  off  clear  of 
the  white,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  double  its  weight  of 
sugar.  Pack  closely  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  part  of  the  sugar. 
—Mrs.   T. 

Orange  Conserves. 

Cut  the  peel  in  long,  thin  strips,  and  stew  in  water  till  all 
bitterness  is  extracted.  Drain  off  this  water  and  stew  again  in 
a  thick  syrup,  allowing  one  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  peel. 
Put  away  in  a  cool  place  for  flavoring  puddings,  pies,  etc.      » 

.Peach  Conserves. 

Pare  the  peaches  and  cut  them  ft-om  the  stone  in  thick  slices. 
Make  a  syrup,  allowing  three-quarters  pound  sugar  to  each 
pound  fruit.  Boil  the  peaches  and  put  them  on  dishes  to  dry. 
As  they  dry,  roll  them  in  granulated  sugar,  and  pack  in  jars  or 
boxes. — Mrs.  W.  P. 

Golden  Syrup. 

Five  pounds  white  sugar  ;  one  quart  water.  Let  it  boil  two 
or  three  minutes,  then  add  two  pounds  strained  honey.  It  will 
keep  for  months. — Mrs.  Z>.  C.  * 

Blackberry  Jelly. 
Crush  one  quart  blackberries  with  one  pound  best  loaf  sugar. 
Cook  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  thick,  then  add  one  gill  best  brandy. 
Stir  it  while  over  the  fire,  then  put  it  in  pots. — Mrs.  E. 

Currant  Jelly  without  cooking. 
Press  the  juice  from  the  currants  and  strain  it.     To  one  pini 


CURRANT  JELLY — APPLE  JELLY.  455 

juice  put  one  pound  white  sugar.  Mix  togethef  till  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Then  put  them  in  jars,  seal  them  and  expose  them 
to  a  hot  sun  two  or  three  days. — Mrs.  E. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Pick  ripe  currants  from  the  stem,  and  put  them  in  a  stone 
jar.  Then  set  the  jar  in  an  iron  pot  and  let  the  fruit  boil  till 
the  jiiice  is  extracted.  Pour  in  a  flannel  bag  and  let  it  drip 
through — without  squeezing,  however,  as  this  makes  it  cloudy. 

To  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  good  white  sugar.  Boil 
about  twenty  minutes  and  keep  it  well  skimmed.  Put  in  the 
glasses  while  hot,  and  sun  daily. — -Mrs.  P.  W. 

Cranberry  Jelly. 
Wash  and  pick  the  cranberries,  put  them  in  the  preserving 
kfettle  with  a  very  small  quantity  of  water,  cover  closely  and 
stew  till  done.  Pour  through  a  jelly  bag  or  coarse  towel,  with- 
out squeezing,  as  this  will  prevent  it  from  being  clear.  Measure 
and  pour  the  liquid  into  the  preserving  kettle.  Let  it  boil  up 
and  remove  the  scum,  then  add  the  sugai-,  cut  or  loaf,  one  pound 
to  a  pint.  Boil  about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  jellies.  It 
preserves  the  color  of  fruit  jellies  to  add  the  sugar  as  late  as 
possible, — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Apple  Jelly. 

Take  half  a  peck  of  pippin  apples,  wash  them  clean,  slice 
them  from  the  coi'e,  put  them  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  a 
quart  of  water.  Boil  till  entirely  soft,  then  strain  through  a 
flannel  bag.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  white  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Boi]  till  jellied.  Do  not  stir 
while  boiling. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Apple  Jelly. 
Pare  and  stew  sour,  juicy  apples  (Greenings  are  best),  in 
enough  water  to   cover   them.      Strain  as  for    currant  jelly. 


456  APPLE   JELLY — 0KA2fGE    JELLY. 

Allow  a  poiind  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  juice.  Put  them 
together  and  strain.  Boil  four  or  five  minutes,  skimming  thor- 
oughly.— Mrs.  M.  B.  JB. 

Apple  (Telly . 
Take  any  number  of  juicy  apples,  put  them  in  a  porcelain 
kettle,  and  boil  to  rags.  Then  strain  them  through  a  cloth  or 
sieve.  Put  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  to  each  pint  of  the  juice,  and 
boil  till  it  jellies.  Flavor  with  the  seed  beaten  in  a  mortar, 
and  put  in  while  the  apples  are  cooking. — Mrs.  G.  TFI 

Crab  Apple  Jelly. 
Slice  the  apples,  take  out  the  cores  and  seed,  as  they  make  the 
jelly  bitter.  Put  them  in  a  kettle  cover  with  water,  and  boil 
till  quite  soft,  keeping  it  well  skimmed.  Pour  the  pulp  in  a 
jelly  bag,  and  let  it  drip  through.  To  each  pint  of  juice,  add 
one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar.  Pour  in  the  glasses  while  hot. 
Delicious  with  meats. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Quince  Jelly. 
Make  the  same  as  apple  jelly,  only  do  not  parex)r  core  the 
fruit,  as  much  of  the  jelly  is  contained  in  those  parts.  Or,  yon 
may  take  the  sound  parings  and  cores,  stew  them  and  strain 
the  liquor  twice,  and  you  will  have  a  jelly  as  nice  as  that 
made  from  the  fruit.  To  each  pound  of  juice  allow  one  pound 
of  sugar.     Boil  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  M.  J3.  JB. 

Orange  Jelly. 
Grate  the  rinds  of  two  Seville  and  two  China  oranges,  and 
two  lemons.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  six  oranges  and  three  lemons. 
Add  one  and  a  quarter  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  and  one-quarter  of  a 
pint  of  water,  and  boil  till  it  jellies.  Have  ready  a  quart  of 
isinglass  jelly,  made  quite  stiff.  Put  it  to  the  syrup  and  let  it 
boil  up  once.  Then  strain  it  and  put  it  in  a  mould. — Mrs.  V. 
P.  M. 


jblly  oranges — grape  jelly.  467 

Jelly  Oranges. 
Dissolve  one  package  gelatine  in  one  cup  cold  water,  after- 
wards adding  two  cups  boiling  water  to  thoroughly  dissolve  it. 
Add  then  three  cups  white  sugar,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  cin- 
namon, grated  rind  of  three  oranges,  juice  of  twelve  fine 
oranges.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  pitcher,  without 
shaking  or  squeezing.  Extract  the  pulp  from  the  orange,  by 
making  a  hole  in  one  end  of  it  large  enough  to  admit  a  mus- 
tard spoon.  Soak  the  rind  a  few  hours,  and  then  pour  the 
jelly  into  each  orange  through  the  whole  at  the  end.  Then  set 
aside  to  congeal.  Garnish  with  orange  leaves.  Cut  each 
orange  in  two.     A  very  ornamental  dish. — Mrs.  McG. 

Green  Grape  Jelly. 
Gather  Catawba  grapes  before  ripening.  Pick  them  from 
the  stem,  wash  them,  and  put  them  in  a  stone  jar.  Set  the 
jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  over  a  hot  fii-e.  When  the  juice 
comes  out  of  the  grapes,  take  the  kettle  off  and  strain  the 
grapes.  To  each  pint  of  juice  put  one  pound  of  the  best  loaf 
sugar.  Boil  twenty  minutes  in  the  kettle.  Ripe  grape  jelly 
may  be  made  in  the  same  way. — Mrs.  JE. 

Grape  Jelly. 
The  chief  art  in  making  jelly  is  to  boil  it  continuously,  slowly 
and  gently.  It  will,  not  harden  well  if  the  boiling  stops,  even 
for  a  few  moments.  To  -preserve  the  true  color  and  flavor  of 
fruit  in  jellies  or  jams,  boil  well  before  adding  the  sugar;  in 
this  way  the  water  contained  in  all  fruit  juices  is  evaporated. 
Heat  the  sugar  before  adding  it.  In  making  grape  jelly,  pick 
the  grapes  from  their  stems,  wash  them,  put  them  over  the  fire 
in  a  vessel  containing  a  little  water,  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing. Stew  a  few  moments;  mash  gently  with  a  silver  spoon, 
strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice,  allow  one  pound  of  white 
suga^"      After  the  juice  comes  to  the  boiHng  point,  boil  twenty 

39 


-158  REMEDY   FOR   MOULDINE8S    IN   FRUIT   JELLIES. 

minutes,  pour  it  over  the  heated  sugar,  and  stir  constantly  till 
all  is  dissolved.     Then  fill  the  jelly  glasses. — JT.  I.  M. 

Remedy  for  Mouldiness  in  Fruit  Jellied. 

Fruit  jellies  may  be  preserved  from  mouldiness  by  covering 
the  surface  one- quarter  of  an  inch  deep  with  finely  pulverized 
loaf  sugar.  Thus  protected,  they  will  keep  for  years. — Mrs.  R. 
CM.  W. 

Tomato   Jelly. 

Take  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  them  carefully,  cutting  out  all  the 
seams  and  rough  places.  To  every  pound  put  half  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Season  with  white  ginger  and  mace.  Boil  to  a  stiff 
jelly,  then  add  enough  good  cider  vinegar  to  keep  it. — Mrs. 
Dr.  P.  O. 

Sugar  Candy. 

Two  cupfuls  sugar,  one  cupful  water,  one  wineglassful  vine- 
gar, one  tablespoonful  butter.  Cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. — 
Mrs.  Dr.  tT. 

Sugar  Candy. 
Three  cupfuls  sugar,  half  a  cupful  vinegar,  half  a  cupful  water, 
juice  of  one  lemon.     Boil  without  stirring,  till  brittle.     Pour 
on  a  buttered  dish  and  pull  till  white  and  light. — 3frs.  McG. 

Sugar  Kisses. 

Whisk  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  siiK  froth  and  stir  in  half 
a  pound  sifted  white  sugar.  Flavor  as  you  like.  Lay  it  when 
stiff  in  heaps  the  size  of  a  small  egg,  on  white  paper.  Lay  on  a 
board  half  an  inch  thick  and  put  in  a  hot  oven.  When  a  little 
yellowish,  slip  off  two  of  the  kisses  with  a  knife  and  join  the 
bottom  parts  together.  Continue  till  all  are  thus  prepared. — 
Mr».  B. 

Nut  Candy. 

Make  sugar  candy  by  one  of  the  foregoing  receipts,  but  instead 


CJUEAM  OANDY — CARAMELS.  459 

of  pouriiig  it  into  a  dish,  drop  it  at  intervals  over  a  buttered 
dish.  On  each  bit  of  candy  thus  dropped,  lay  half  the  kernel  of 
an  English  walnut,  and  when  a  little  cool,  pour  half  a  spoonful 
of  sugar  candy  on  top.  Candy  of  almonds,  pecans,  or  palm  nuts 
may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. — Mrs.  8.  T. 

Cream  Candy. 
Two  pounds  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  water,  two  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  butter.     Boil  twenty  minutes.     Sea- 
son with  lemon  or  vanilla,  just  as  you  take  it  oflf.     Put  in  a 
dish  and  stir  till  cold. — Mrs.  McJSF. 

Molasses  Candy. 
Boil  one  quart  molasses  in  a  rather  deep  vessel.  Boil  stead- 
ily, stirring  from  sides  and  bottom.  When  a  little,  poured  in  a 
glass  of  cold  water,  becomes  brittle,  it  is  done.  Pour  in  a  but- 
tered dish  and  pull  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle,  or  you 
may  stir  in,  when  it  is  nearly  done,  some  picked  kernels  of  the 
common  black  walnut.  Boil  a  little  longer,  pour  on  a  buttered 
dish,  and  cut  in  squares  just  before  it  gets  cold. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Caramels. 
One  cake  (half  a  pound)  of  Baker's  chocolate  broken  up, 
four  pounds  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound  fresh  butter,  one  pint 
of  milk.  Pour  the  milk  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  pour  the 
other  ingredients  into  this.  Let  it  boil  at  least  half  an  hour, 
stirring  frequently.  When  done,  a  crust  of  sugar  will  form  on 
the  spoon  and  on  the  side  of  the  kettle.  Pour  in  a  large  table- 
spoonful  extract  of  vanilla,  take  from  the  fii'e  and  stir  rapidly 
till  it  begins  to  thicken  like  mush.  Then  pour  quickly  into 
buttered  dishes  or  pans,  and  when  nearly  cold  cut  into  small 
squares. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Ca/ramds. 
Three  pounds  white  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  chocolate,  one  pint 


460  CHOCOLATE   CARAMELS — GOCOANUT   BALLS. 

milk,  six  ounces  of  butter.     Boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and 
stir  constantly. — Mrs.  R.  G. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 
Two  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar,  three-quarters  pound  of 
chocolate,  one  quarter  pound   of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  milk  or 
cream. — Mrs.  W.  O.  JR. 

Cream  Chocolate. 
One  cupful  of  cream,  with  enough  white  sugar  to  thicken  it. 
Boil  till  thick,  and  when  cold,  roll  up  in  little  balls  and  put 
them  on  a  dish  on  which  has  been  poured  some  melted  choco- 
late. Then  pour  over  them  with  a  spoon  some  melted  choco- 
late. When  quite  cool,  cut  apart  and  trim  off"  the  edges,  if 
uneven.  This  cream  should  be  seasoned  with  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla  and  the  dish  should  be  buttered. — Miss  J^. 

CocoANUT  Caramels. 
One-quarter  pound  Baker's  chocolate  (half  cake),  one-quarter 
pound  butter,  two  pounds  nice  brown  sugar,  one  teacup  rich 
milk.  Stew  half  an  hour  or  till  thick.  Add  a  grated  cocoanut. 
Stir  till  it  begins  to  boil  again.  Take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  vanilla,  and  pour  into  buttered  dishes.  When 
cool  enough  to  handle,  make  into  balls,  the  size  of  a  walnut  and 
place  on  buttered  dishes. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cocoanut  Caramels. 
Pour  a  teacup  of  boiling  milk  over  one-quarter  cake  of 
pounded  chocolate.  Let  it  steep  an  hour,  then  add  one  and  one- 
quarter  pounds  of  white  sugar,  and  the  milk  of  a  cocoanut.  Boil 
till  perfectly  done.  Then  remove  from  the  fire,  adding  the  grated 
cocoxnut.  Season  with  vanilla,  pour  in  buttered  dishes,  and  cut 
in  blocks. — Mrs.  W.  C. 

Cocoanut  Balis. 
Wet  two  pounds  of  sugar  with  the  milk  of  a  cocoanut.    Boil 


OOCOANUT  DROPS — WINS.  461 

and  sbii'  till  it  begins  to  granulate.  Then  stir  in  the  cocoanut 
grated  fine.  Boil  a  short  time  longei",  then  pour  into  buttered 
dishes,  and  as  soon  as  it  can  be  handled  make  into  balls. — Mrs. 
J.M. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 
The  white  part  of  a  grated  cocoanut,  whites  of  four  eggs 
well  beaten,  one-half  pound  sifted  white  sugar.  Flavor  with 
rose  water  or  lemon.  Mix  all  as  thick  as  can  be  stirred  ;  lay  in 
heaps  half  an  inch  apart,  on  paper  or  on  a  baking-pan,  in  a  hot 
oven.  Take  them  out  when  they  begin  to  look  yellowish. — 
Mrs.  B. 

Almond  Maoakoons. 
One-half  pound  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  essence  of  lemon,  till  a  smooth  paste.  Add  an  equal 
quantity  of  sifted  white  sugar  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs. 
Work  well  together  with  a  spoon.  Dip  your  hand  into  water 
and  work  them  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Lay  them  on 
white  paper  an  inch  apart,  then  dip  your  hand  in  watei  and 
smooth  them.  Put  them  in  a  slow  oven  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Cocoanut  may  be  used  instead  of  almonds. — Mrs.  M 
G.H. 


WINE. 

Be  sure  to  get  perfectly  ripe  fruit  for  making  wine,  but  do 
not  gather  it  immediately  after  rain,  as  it  is  watery  then  and 
less  sweet  than  usual. 

Be  very  careful  to  stop  the  wine  securely  as  soon  as  fermen- 
tation ceases,  as  otherwise  it  will  lose  its  strength  and  flavor. 
Watch  carefully  to  see  when  fermentation  ceases. 

Strawberry  wine  makes  a  delicious  flavoring  for  syllabub, 
cake,  jelly,  etc.,  and   so    does  gooseberry  wine.       Dewberries 


462  BLACKBERKT   WINE. 

make  a  prettier  and  better  wine  than  blackberries,  and  have  all 
the  medicinal  virtues  of  the  latter. 

The  clearest  wine  is  made  without  straining,  by  the  following 
process  :  Take  a  tub  or  barrel  (a  flour- barrel  for  instance),  and 
make  a  little  pen  of  sticks  of  wood  at  the  bottom.  On  top  of 
this  pen  lay  an  armful  of  clean  straw.  Bore  a  hole  in  the 
side  of  the  tub  or  barrel  as  near  the  bottom  as  possible,  and  set 
it  on  a  stool  or  box  so  as  to  admit  of  setting  a  vessel  underneath 
it.  After  mashing  the  berries  intended  for  wine,  put  them  on  top 
the  straw,  and  let  the  juice  drain  through  it  and  run  through  the 
hole  at  the  side  of  the  tub  or  bari-el  into  the  vessel  set  beneath 
to  catch  it.  Be  careful  to  have  this  vessel  large  enough  to 
avoid  its  being  overrun.  Any  open  stone  vessel  not  used  be- 
fore for  pickle  will  answer,  or  a  bucket  or  other  wooden  vessel 
may  be  used.  Let  the  berries  remain  on  the  straw  and  drain 
from  evening  till  the  next  morning.  Some  persons  make  a 
slight  variation  on  the  process  above  described,  by  pouring  hot 
water  over  the  berries  after  putting  them  on  the  straw.  After 
the  draining  is  ovei-,  an  inferior  sort  of  wine  may  be  made  by 
squeezing  the  berries. 

The  following  process  will  make  wine  perfectly  clear  :  To  a 
half-gallon  of  wine  put  two  wine-glasses  of  sweet  milk.  Stir 
it  into  the  wine  and  pour  it  all  in  a  transparent  half-gallon  bottle. 
Stop  it  and  set  it  by  for  twenty- four  hours,  at  the  end  of  which 
time  the  wine  will  be  beautifully  clear,  the  sediment  settling 
with  the  milk  at  the  bottom.  Pour  off  the  wine  carefully  into 
another  bottle,  not  allowing  any  of  the  sediment  or  milk  to  get 
into  the  fresh  bottle.     The  same  directions  apply  to  vinegar. 

Blackberry  Wine. 
Fill  laige  stone  jars  with  ripe  black  or  dewberries.  Cover 
them  with  water,  mash  them,  and  let  them  stand  several  hours, 
or,  if  freshly  gathered,  let  them  stand  all  night.  Then  stiain 
through  a  thick  cloth  and  add  three  pounds  white  sugar  to  each 
gallon  of  juice.     Let  the  wine  stand  a  few  days  in  the  jars, 


BLACKBERRY   WINE.  463 

stirring  and  skimming  each  day.      Put  it  in  a  demijohn,  but 
do  not  cork  it  up  for  some  time. — Mrs.  M.  D. 

Blackberry  Wine. 
Measixre  the  berries  and  bruise  them  ;  to  every  gallon  adding 
one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours, 
stirring  oucasionally ;  then  strain  ofi'  the  liquor  into  a  cask,  add- 
ing two  pounds  sugar  to  every  gallon.  Cork  tight  and  let  it 
stand  till  the  following  October,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  us( 
without  further  boiling  or  straining. 

£lackherry  Wine. 
One  bushel  very  ripe  berries  makes  ten  gallons  wine.  Mash 
the  berries  as  fine  as  possible  and  pour  over  them  a  water-bucket 
of  clear  spring  water.  Cover  it  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours  to  ferment.  Next  day  strain  through  a  cloth,  and  to  every 
three  quarts  juice  add  two  quarts  clear  cold  water  and  five 
pounds  common  brown  sugar.  Pour  in  a  demijohn  or  runlet, 
resei'ving  some  to  fill  the  vessel  as  fermentation  goes  on.  After 
six  or  eight  days,  put  to  eveiy  ten  gallons  one-half  box  gelatine. 
After  two  weeks,  cover  the  bung-hole  with  a  piece  of  muslin. 
Two  or  three  weeks  later,  cork  tightly  and  then  leave  undisturb- 
ed for  six  months.  After  that  time,  bottle  and  seal.  Superior 
currant  wine  may  be  made  by  this  recipe. — Mrs.  F. 

Slackherry  Wine. 
Fill  a  large  stone  jar  with  the  ripe  fruit  and  cover  it  with 
water.  Tie  a  cloth  over  the  jar  and  let  them  stand  three  or 
four  days  to  ferment ;  then  mash  and  press  them  through  a 
cloth.  To  every  gallon  of  juice  add  three  pounds  of  brown 
sugar.  Return  the  mixture  to  the  jar  and  cover  closely.  Skim 
it  every  morning  for  more  than  a  week,  until  it  clears  from  the 
second  fermentation.  When  ci'ar,  pour  it  carefully  from  the 
sediment  into  a  demijohn.     "       k  tightly,  set  in  a  cool  place 


4:64  GKAPE   WINE — CATAWBA   GKAPE    WINE. 

When  two  months  old  it  will  be  fit  for  use. — Mrs.  Gen.  M.  A 
Lee. 

[Copied  from  a  recipe  in  Mrs.  Lee's  own  handwriting.] 

Grape  Wine. 
Take  any  convenient  quantity  of  perfectly  rijDe  grapes.  Mash 
them  so  as  to  break  all  the  skins,  and  put  them  in  a  tub  or 
other  clean  vessel,  and  let  them  remain  twenty -four  hours  ;  with 
a  cider-press  or  other  convenient  apparatus,  express  all  the  juice, 
and  to  each  gallon  of  juice  thus  obtained  add  from  two  to  two 
and  a  half  pounds  of  wliite  sugar  (if  the  grapes  are  sweet,  two 
pounds  will  be  enough),  put  the  juice  and  sugar  in  a  keg  or 
barrel,  and  cover  the  bung-hole  with  a  piece  of  muslin,  so  the 
gas  can  escape  and  dust  and  insects  cannot  get  in  ;  let  it  remain 
perfectly  quiet  until  cold  weather,  then  bung  up  tightly.  This 
wine  will  need  no  clarifying ;  if  allowed  to  rest  perfectly  still 
it  can  be  drawn  oflF  perfectly  clear. — Mr.  W.  A.  S. 

Grape  Wine. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  tlie  buncli,'  mash  thoroughly,  and  let 
them  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Then  strain  and  add  three 
pounds  of  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  juice.  Leave  in  a  cask  six 
months,  and  then  bottle,  putting  three  raisins  in  each  bottle. — 
Mrs.  B.  L. 

Grape  Wine. 

Press  the  grapes,  and  when  the  juice  settles,  add  two  pounds 
of  white  sugar  to  four  quarts  of  juice.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four 
Lours,  drain,  put  in  a  cask ;  do  not  stop  tightly  till  the  fermen- 
tation is  over. — Mrs.  M.  A. 

Catawba  Grape  Wine. 

Mash  ripe  grapes  to  a  pulp,  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four 

hours.     Then  squeeze  through  a  cloth,  and  add  two  pounds  of 

sugar  to  each  gallon  of  pure  juice.     Put  in  a  cask,  leave  the 

bung  out,  and  put  coarse  muslin  over  the  hole  to  admit  the  air. 


CATAWBA   GEAPE   WINE — NATIVE   QKAPE   WINE.        465 

Let  it  stand  six  weeks,  or  till  fermentation  ceases.  Then  close 
the  mouth  of  the  cask  and  let  the  wine  stand  several  months, 
after  which  it  may  be  drawn  off. — Mrs.  H.  D. 

Catawba  Grape  Wine. 
To  every  gallon  of  grape  juice  add  one  quart  of  cold,  clear 
water,  and  three  pounds  of  "  A  "  sugar.  Pour  into  a  runlet  and 
let  it  remain  uncorked  fourteen  days,  and  then  cork  loosely. 
Add  half  a  box  gelatine  to  every  ten  gallons,  fourteen  days  after 
making  it.  At  the  end  of  a  month  tighten  the  cork,  then  let  it 
remain  undisturbed  for  six  months,  after  which  it  may  be  care- 
fully racked,  bottled,  and  sealed. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 

Fox  Gkape  Wine. 

To  evexy  bushel  of  fox  grapes  add  twenty-two  quarts  of  water. 
Mash  the  fruit  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Strain 
through  a  linen  or  fine  sieve  that  will  prevent  the  seed  from 
getting  through.  To  every  gallon  of  juice  add  two  pounds  of 
brown  sugar.  Fill  the  cask  not  quite  full.  Let  it  stand  open 
fourteen  days,  and  then  close  the  bung. — Mrs.  Gen.  R.  M  Lee. 

[The  above  was  copied  from  an  autograph  recipe  of  Mrs. 
Lee's,  kindly  furnished  by  her  daughter.] 

Wild  Black  Grape  Wine. 

Pick  the  grapes  from  the  stem  and  cover  with  water.  Mash 
and  strain  immediately.  Add  three  pounds  white  sugar  to  one 
gallon  juice.  Garden  grape  wine  is  made  in  the  same  way.  If 
you  prefer  a  red  wine,  let  the  water  stand  on  the  grapes  all 
night.    The  light  wine  is  the  best,  however. 

This  wine  has  to  be  kept  much  longer  than  blackberry  wine 
before  it  is  fit  for  use. — Mrs.  M.  D. 

Native  Grape  Wine. 
Pick  all  the  perfect  grapes  from  the  bunches,  wash  them  and 
pack  them  down  in  a  wooden  or  stone  vessel.     Pour  over  them 
20* 


466  G008EBEEKY   WINE — OUREANT   WINE. 

boiling  water — about  one  quart  to  every  bushel  of  grapes.  Tie 
a  cloth  over  them  and  let  them  stand  a  week  or  ten  days. 
Then  strain  it  and  add  three  pounds  sugar  to  every  gallon  juice, 
mixing  it  well.  Put  in  demijohns  and  tie  a  cloth  over  the  top. 
Let  it  stand  six  months,  and  then  cork  it  tightly.  The  wine 
will  be  fit  for  use  in  nine  months. — M^rs.  Dr.  S. 

Gooseberry  Wine. 
To  every  gallon  of  gooseberries  add  three  pints  of  boiling 
water.  Let  it  stand  two  days,  then  mash  and  squeeze  out  the 
juice,  to  eveiy  gallon  of  which  add  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Put 
it  in  a  cask  and  draw  off  about  the  usual  time  of  drawing  off 
other  wines.— Mrs.  li.  T.  R.  A. 

Currant  Wine. 

Put  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar  to  every  squeezed  gallon  of 
currants.  Add  a  gallon  of  water,  or  two,  if  juice  is  scarce.  It 
is  better  to  put  it  in  an  old  wine-cask  and  let  it  stand  a  year 
before  you  draw  it  off. — Mrs.   Gen.  H.  E.  Lee. 

[Copied  from  a  recipe  in  her  own  handwriting.] 

Currant  Wine. 
Mash  the  currants  well  and  strain  thi-ough  a  linen  towel. 
Add  a  gallon  of  water  to  every  gallon  of  juice.  Allow  three 
pounds  sugar  to  every  gallon  of  the  mixture.  Put  in  a  cask 
and  cork  loosely  till  fermentation  is  over.  Bottle  in  Septem- 
ber.— Mrs.  Dr.  8. 

Currant  Wine. 
To  one  gallon  well  picked  and  washed  currants,  add  cue 
gallon  water.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  strain 
through  a  flax  linen  cloth.  Add  to  a  gallon  of  juice  and  water 
three  pounds  brown  sugar.  Let  it  stand  fourteen  days  in  a 
clean,  open  cask. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 


cherry  wme tomato  wine,  467 

Cherry  Wine. 

Measure  the  berries  and  bruise  them,  adding  to  every  gallon 
one  quart  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  stir- 
ring occasionally.  Then  strain  oS  the  liquor,  put  in  ajar,  add- 
ing two  pounds  sugar  to  every  gallon.  Stop  tightly,  and  let  it 
stand  till  the  next  October,  when  it  will  be  fit  for  use  without 
straining  or  boiling. 

Strawberry  Wine. 

Mash  the  berries  and  add  to  each  gallon  of  fruit  a  half- 
gallon  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then 
strain  and  add  three  pounds  brown  sugar  to  each  gallon  juice. 
Let  it  stand  thirty-six  houi-s,  skimming  the  impurities  that  rise 
to  the  top.  Put  in  a  cask,  reserving  some  to  add  as  it  escapes 
from  the  cask.  Fill  each  morning.  Cork  and  seal  tightly 
after  the  fermentation  is  over. — JIos.  E. 

Orange  Wine. 
One  gallon  juice  of  sour  oranges,  four  gallons  water,  twenty 
pounds  sugar.  Boil  it  and  clarify  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs ; 
skim  the  liquid  till  the  scum  has  disappeared.  Pour  into  a 
vessel  of  suitable  size,  taking  the  precaution  to  first  strain  it 
through  flannel.  Add  three-quarters  of  a  bottle  of  raw  juice 
and  let  it  ferment.  Bottle  in  six  months.  Put  less  sugar  if 
you  prefer  a  wine  less  sweet. — Mrs.  N. 

Cider  Wine. 
One  gallon  sweet  cider,  three  pounds  sugar.  Put  in  a  cask 
aaid  let  it  ferment.  Keep  the  vessel  full  so  that  it  will  run 
over.  Let  it  stand  fifteen  days.  Put  the  corks  in  a  little 
tighter  every  day.  Let  it  stand  three  months,  then  bottle  and 
s(  al  up. — Mrs.  E.  B. 

Tomato  Wine. 

Pick  small,  ripe  tomatoes  off  the  stems,  put  them  in  a  clean 
bucket  or  tub,  mash  well,  and  strain  through  a  linen  rag  (a 
bushel  will  make  five  gallons  of  juice).       Add  from  two  and  a 


4^8  EGGNOG — APPLE   TODDY. 

half  to  three  pounds  brown  sugar  to  each  gallon.  Put  in  a  cask 
and  let  it  ferment  like  raspberry  wine.  If  two  gallons  water 
be  added  to  a  bushel  of  tomatoes,  the  wine  will  be  as  good. — 
Mrs.  A.  D. 

Eggnog. 
To  each  egg  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  wine-glassful  of 
milk,  one  wine-glassful  of  liquor.  The  sugar  and  yolks  to  be 
well  beaten  together,  and  the  whites  (well  beaten)  added  by 
degrees.  To  twelve  eggs,  put  eight  glassfuls  of  brandy  and 
four  of  wine.  Put  the  liquor  in  the  yolks  and  sugar,  stirring 
slowly  all  the  time ;  then  add  the  whites,  and  lastly  the  milk. — ■ 
Mrs.  F. 

Eggnog. 
Three  dozen  eggs,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  half  a  gallon  of 
brandy,  half  a  pint  of  French  brandy,  half  a  gallon  of  milk. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately.  Stir  the  sugar  thor- 
oughly into. the  yolks,  add  the  brandy  slowly  so  as  to  cook  the 
eggs,  then  add  the  milk,  and  lastly  the  whites,  with  grated  nut- 
meg, reserving  enough  for  top-dressing. — Mrs.  P.  W. 

Eggnog.  ' 

Take  any  number  of  eggs  you  wish,  beat  the  whites  and  yolks 
separately  and  as  light  as  possible.  Stir  into  the  yolks,  while 
beating,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg.  Then  pour  on 
the  yolks  and  sugar  a  small  wine-glassful  of  wine,  flavored  with 
a  little  vanilla,  to  each  egg.  On  that  pour  a  wine-glassful  of 
rich  milk  or  cream  to  each  egg.  Beat  the  whites  as  if  for  cake, 
tlien  beat  in  enough  sugar  to  make  them  smooth  and  stiff.  Stir 
this  into  the  eggnog  for  twenty  minutes,  and  grate  nutmeg  on 
the  top.— Ifrs.  R.  G. 

Apple  Toddy. 
Half  a  gallon  of  apple  brandy,  half  a  pint  of  French  brandy, 
half  a  pint  of  peach  brandy,  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  six 
apples,  baked  without  peeling,  one  pound  of  sugar,  witb  enough 


APPLE  TODDY — ROMAN   PUNOH.  469 

hot  water  to  dissolve  it;  spice,  if  you  like.  This  toddy, 
bottled  after  straining,  will  keep  for  years,  and  improve  witt 
age.— Mrs.  C.  0.  McP. 

Apple  Toddy. 
One  gallon  of  apple  brandy  or  whiskey,  one  and  a  half  gallon 
of  hot  water,  well  sweetened,  one  dozen  large  apples,  wel. 
roasted,  two  grated  nutmegs,  one  gill  of  allspice,  one  gill  of 
cloves,  a  pinch  of  mace.  Season  with  half  a  pint  of  good  rum. 
Let  it  stand  three  or  four  days  before  using. —  Col.  S. 

Rum  Punch. 

Make  a  rich,  sweet  lemonade,  add  rum  and  brandy  to  taste, 
only  dashing  with  brandy.  It  must  be  sweet  and  strong. — Mrs. 
D.  E. 

Regent  Punch. 

One  pint  of  strong  black  tea  (in  which  put  the  rind  of  four 
lemons  cut  very  thin).  Two  pounds  of  sugar,  juice  of  six 
lemons,  juice  of  six  oranges,  one  pint  of  French  brandy,  one 
pint  of  rum,  two  quarts  of  champagne.  Serve  in  a  bowl,  with 
plenty  of  ice.— Mrs.  C.  C.  McP. 

Tea  Punch. 
Three  cups  of  strong  green  tea  (in  which  put  the  rind  of  six 
lemons,  pared  very  thin),  one  and  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  juice 
of  six  lemons.  Stir  together  a  few  minutes,  then  strain,  and 
lastly  add  one  quart  of  good  rum.  Fill  the  glasses  with  crushed 
ice  when  used.  It  will  keep  any  length  of  time  bottled. 
Fine  for  hot  weather. — Mrs.  A.  B. 

Roman  Punch, 
Grate  the  rind  of  four  lemons  and  two  oranges  upon  two 
pounds  of  sugar.     Squeeze  the  juice  of  these,  and  let  it  stand 
several  hours.     Strain  them  through  a  sieve.     Add  one  quart 


470  KOMAN   PUNCH — DEWBERRY   CORDIAL. 

of  cliampague  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  very  light. 
Freeze,  and  serve  in  hock  glasses. — Mrs.  C.  C.  McP. 

Moman  Punch. 
To  make  a  gallon.  One  and  a  half  pint  of  lemon  juice,  rinda 
of  two  lemons  grated  on  sugar,  one  jjint  of  rum,  half  a  pint  of 
brandj,  two  quarts  of  water,  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar.  A 
pint-bottle  of  champagne  is  a  great  improvement.  Mix  all 
together,  and  freeze. — Mrs.  S.  C.  0. 

BiACKBERRY  Cordial. 

Two  quarts  blackberry  juice,  one  pound  loaf  sugar,  four 
grated  nutmegs,  one-quarter  ounce  ground  cloves,  one-quartei 
ounce  ground  allspice,  one-quarter  ounce  ground  cinnamon. 
Simmer  all  together,  for  thirty  minutes,  in  a  stewpan  closely 
covered,  to  prevent  evaporation.  Strain  through  a  cloth  when 
cold  and  add  a  pint  of  the  best  French  brandy.  Soothing  and 
efficacious  in  the  summer  complaints  of  children.  Dose,  one 
teaspoonful  poured  on  a  little  pounded  ice,  once  or  several 
times  a  day,  as  the  case  may  requii-e. 

Whortleberry  cordial  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. 
Good  old  whiskey  may  be  u.sed  for  either,  in  the  absence  of 
brandy. — Mrs.  Gen.  S. 

Blachherry  Cordial. 
Half  a  bushel  of  berries,  well  mashed,  one-quarter  pound  of 
allspice  (pulverized),  two  ounces  cloves  (pulverized).  Mix  and 
boil  slowly  till  done.  Then  strain  through  homespun  or  flannel, 
and  add  one  pound  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil 
again,  and,  when  cool,  add  half  a  gallon  best  brandy.  Good  for 
diarrhoea  or  dysentery.  Dose,  one  teaspoonful  or  more  accord- 
ing to  age. — Mrs.  S.  B. 

Dewberry  Cordial. 
To  one  quart  juice  put  one  pound  loaf  sugar  and  boil  these 


DEWBERRY    COEDIAI. CHERRY    CORDIAL.  471 

together  fifteen  minutes.  When  cool,  add  one  gill  brandy,  one 
tablespoonful  mace,  cloves,  and  allspice  powdered.  Bottle  and 
cork  tightly. — Mrs.  A.  D. 

Dewberry  Cordial. 
Two  quarts  strained  juice,  one  pound  loaf  sugar,  four  grated 
nutmegs,  one-half  ounce  pulverized  cinnamon,  one-quai'ter  ounce 
pulverized  cloves,  one-quarter  ounce  pulverized  allspice.  Simmer 
all  together  for  thirty  minutes,  in  a  saucepan  tightly  covered  to 
prevent  evaporation.  Then  strain  through  a  cloth,  and,  when 
cold,  add  one  pint  best  French  brandy.  Bottle  and  cork  tightly. 
—Mrs.  D.  R. 

Strawberry  Cordial. 

One  gallon  apple  brandy,  four  quarts  strawbei-ries.  After 
standing  twenty-four  hours,  press  them  through  a  cotton  bag, 
and  add  four  quarts  more  of  berries.  After  twenty-four  hours 
more,  repeat  this  process.  To  every  quart  of  the  cordial  add 
one  pound  of  sugar,  or  sweeten  it  with  a  syrup  made  as  follows : 
two  pounds  sugar,  one  pint  watei',  white  of  one  egg  whipped  a 
little — all  boiled  together.  When  cold,  add  one  pint  syrup  to 
one  quart  cordial. — Mrs.  G.  F.  C. 

Cherry  Cordial. 
Extract  the  juice  from  ripe  Morella  cherries  as  you  would  from 
berries.  Strain  through  a  cloth,  sweeten  to  your  taste,  and 
when  perfectly  clear,  boil  it.  Put  a  gill  of  brandy  in  each 
bottle,  cork  and  seal  tightly.  Will  keep  all  the  summer  in  a 
cool  place.     Delicious  with  iced  water. 

Cherry  Cordial  or  Cherry  Brandy. 

Take  three  pounds  Morella  cherries.  Stone  half  and  prick 
the  rest.  Throw  into  ajar,  adding  the  kernels  of  half  slightly 
bruised.  A  dd  one  pound  white  sugar.  Cover  with  brandy,  and 
let  it  stand  a  month. — Mrs.  E. 


472  mint  cordial steawbeeey  vinegae. 

Mint  Cordial. 

Pick  the  mint  early  in  the  morning  while  the  dew  is  on  it. 
Do  not  bruise  it.  Pour  some  water  over  it,  and  then  drain  it 
off.  Put  two  handfuls  in  a  pitcher  with  a  quart  of  French 
brandy.  Cover  and  let  it  stand  till  next  day.  Take  out  the 
mint  carefully,  and  put  in  as  much  more,  wliich  take  out  next 
day.  Add  fresh  mint  a  third  time,  taking  it  out  after  twenty- 
four  hours.  Then  add  three  quarts  water  and  one  pound  loaf 
sugar  to  the  brandy.  Mix  well,  and,  when  clear,  bottle. — Mrs. 
Dr.  J. 

Stkawberry  Acid. 

Put  twelve  pounds  fruit  in  a  pan.  Cover  it  with  two  quarts 
water,  having  previously  acidulated  the  water  with  five  ounces 
tartaric  acid.  Let  it  remain  forty-eight  hours.  Then  strain, 
taking  care  not  to  bruise  the  fruit.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add 
one  pound  and  a  half  powdered  sugar.  Stir  till  dissolved,  and 
leave  a  few  days.  Then  bottle  and  cork  lightly.  If  a  slight 
fermentation  takes  place,  leave  the  corks  out  for  a  few  days. 
The  whole  process  to  be  cold.  When  put  away,  the  bottles 
must  be  kept  erect. — Mrs.  Col.  H. 

Royal  Strawberry  Acid. 
Dissolve  two  ounces  citric  acid  in  one  quart  spring  water, 
which  pour  over  three  pounds  ripe  strawberries.  After  stand- 
ing twenty-four  hours,  drain  the  liquor  off,  and  pour  it  over 
three  pounds  more  of  strawberries.  Let  it  stand  twenty -four 
hours  more,  and  again  drain  the  liquor  off.  Add  to  the  liquor 
its  own  weight  of  sugar.  Boil  three  or  four  minutes,  put  in 
cool  bottles,  cork  lightly  for  three  .days,  then  cork  tightly  and 
Beal.—Mrs.   G. 

Strawberry  Yinegar. 
Four  pounds  strawberries,  three  quarts  vinegar.     Put  fresh, 
ripe  berries  in  a  jar,  adding  to  each  pound  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
fine,  pale  white-wine  vinegar.     Tie  a  thick  paper  over  them  and 


RASPBERRY  VINEGAR — RASPBERRY  ACm.       473 

let  them  remain  three  or  four  days.  Then  drain  off  the  vinegar, 
and  pour  it  over  four  pounds  fresh  fruit.  After  three  days  drain 
it  again,  and  add  it  a  third  time  to  fresh  fruit.  After  drain- 
ing the  last  time,  add  one  pound  refined  sugar  to  each  pint  of 
vinegar.  When  nearly  dissolved,  stir  the  syrup  over  a  fire  till 
it  has  dissolved  (five  minutes).  Skim  it,  pour  it  in  a  pitcher, 
cover  it  till  next  day.  Then  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  loosely  for 
the  first  few  days.  Use  a  few  spoonfuls  to  a  glass  of  water. — 
3Irs.  E.  P.  G. 

Raspberry  Yinegar. 
Put  a  quart  red  I'aspberries  in  a  bowl.  Pour  over  them  a  quart 
strong  apple  vinegar.  After  standing  twenty-four  hours,  strain 
through  a  bag,  and  add  the  liquid  to  a  quart  of  fresh  berries. 
After  twenty-four  hours  more,  strain  again,  and  add  the  liquid 
to  a  third  quart  of  berries.  After  straining  the  last  time, 
sweeten  liberally  with  pounded  loaf  sugar,  refine  and  bottle. 
Blackberry  vinegar  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. — Mrs. 
G.  JV. 

Raspherry  Vinegar. 
Put  two  quarts  ripe,  fresh  gathered  berries  in  a  stone  or 
china  vessel,  and  pour  over  them  a  quart  of  vinegar.  After 
standing  twenty-four  hours,  strain  through  a  sieve.  Pour  the 
liquid  over  two  quarts  fresh  berries,  which  strain  after  twenty- 
four  hours.  Allow  one  pound  loaf  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice. 
Break  up  the  sugar  and  let  it  melt  in  the  liquid.  Put  the  whole 
in  a  stone  jar,  cover  closely,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
which  must  be  kept  boiling  briskly  an  hour.  Take  off  the  scum, 
and,  when  cold,  bottle. — Miss  iY  X. 

Raspberry  Acid. 

Dissolve  five  ounces  tartaric  acid  in  two  quarts  water,  and 

I»our  it  over  twelve  pounds  berries.     Let  it  stand  twenty-four 

hours,  and  then  strain  without  bruising  the  fruit.     To  each  pint 

clear  juice  add  one  pound  and  a  half  dissolved  sugar,  and  leave 

40 


i74  LEMON   VINEGAR — CKEAM   BEEE. 

a  few  days.     If  a  slight  fermentation  takes  place,  deky  corking 
a  few  days.     Then  cork  and  seal. — Mrs.  G. 

Lemon  Vinsgar. 
Fill  a  bottle  nearly  full  of  strong  cider  vinegar.  Put  in  it 
the  rind  of  two  or  three  lemons,  peeled  very  thin.  In  a  week 
or  two  it  will  be  ready  for  nse,  and  will  not  only  make  a  nice 
beverage  (very  much  like  lemonade),  but  will  answer  for  sea- 
soning.— Mrs.  M.   C.  C. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Syrup. 
Put  one  pound  and  a  half  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice. 
Add  some  peel,  and  boil  ten  minutes,  then  strain  and  cork. 
It  makes  a  fine  beverage,  and  is  useful  for  flavoring  pies  and 
puddings.  The  juice  of  any  acid  fruit  may  be  made  into  a 
syrup  by  the  above  recipe. 

Orgeat. 

Make  a  syrup  of  one  pound  sugar  to  one  pint  water.  Put  it 
aside  till  cold.  To  five  pounds  sugar  put  one  gill  rose-water 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  essence  of  bitter  almonds. — Mrs.  I.  S. 

Summer  Beer. 

Twelve  quarts  water,  one  quart  molasses,  one  quart  strong 
hop-tea,  oue-half  pint  yeast.  Mix  well  and  allow  to  settle. 
Strain  through  a  coarse  cloth,  and  bottle.  It  will  be  good  in 
twenty-four  hours. — Mrs.  E.   TT. 

Cream  Beer. 
Two  ounces  tartaric  acid,  two  pounds  white  sugar,  three  pints 
water,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Boil  all  together.  When  nearly 
cold,  add  whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  one-half  cupful 
flour,  and  one-half  ounce  essence  wintergreen.  Bottle  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place.  Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  this  mixture  for  a 
tumbler  of  water,  in  which  put  one-quarter  teaspoonful  soda. 
—Mrs.  E. 


lemon  beek — crab  oideb.  475 

Lemon  Beer. 
Cut  two  large  lemons  in  slices  and  put  them  in  a  jar.  Add 
one  pound  white  sugar  and  one  gallon  boiling  water.  Let  it 
stand  till  cool ;  then  add  one-quarter  cupful  yeast.  Let  it 
stand  till  it  ferments.  Bottle  in  the  evening  in  stone  jugs  and 
cork  tightly.— Jirs.  G.  W.  P. 

Ginger  Beer. 

One  and  a  half  ounce  best  groimd  Jamaica  ginger,  one  and  a 
half  ounce  cream  of  tartar,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  two  sliced 
lemons,  four  quarts  boiling  water,  one-half  pint  yeast.  Let  it  fer- 
ment twenty-four  hoiirs.  In  two  weeks  it  will  be  ready  for 
use.— ilfrs.   G.W.  P. 

Small  Beer. 

Fifteen  gallons  water,  one  gallon  bran,  one  and  a  half  gallon 
molasses,  one  quart  corn  or  oats,  one-quarter  pound  hops.  Let 
it  boil  up  once  ;  take  it  off  and  sweeten  with  the  aforementioned 
molasses.  Put  it  in  a  tub  to  cool.  When  a  little  more  than 
milk  warm,  add  one  and  a  half  pint  yeast.  Cover  it  with  a 
blanket  till  next  morning,  and  then  bottle. — Mrs.  M.  P. 

Mulled  Cider. 

To  one  quart  cider  take  three  eggs.     Beat  them  light  and 

add  sugar  according  to  the  acidity  of  the  cider.     When  light, 

pour  the  boiling  cider  on,  stirring  briskly.     Put  back  on  the 

fire  and  stir  till  it  fairly  boils.  Then  pour  off.— J/r.  R.  H.  M. 

Crab  Cider. 
To  a  thirty-gallon  cask    put   one  bushel  clean  picked  grapes. 
Fill  up  with  sweet  cider,  just  from  the  press — crab  preferred. 
Draw  off  in  March,  and  it  is  fit  for  use.    Add  brandy,  as  much 
as  you  think  best. — Mrs.  A.  D. 


476    THE  SIOK-KOOM — DIET  AUD  EEMEDIES  FOE  THE  SICK. 


THE   SICK-ROOM— DIET  AND   EEMEDIES  FOR 
THE   SICK. 

First  of  all,  let  me  say  that  after  a  reliable  physician  has  been 
called  in,  his  directions  should  be  strictly  followed,  and  his  in- 
structions should  be  the  law  in  the  sick-room.  Have  every- 
thing in  readiness  for  his  admission  immediately  after  his  ai-rival, 
as  his  time  is  valuable  and  it  occasions  him  both  annoyance  and 
loss  of  time  to  be  kept  waiting  outside  of  the  sick-room,  after 
reaching  the  house  of  the  patient. 

Pure  air  is  of  vital  importance  in  the  sick-room.  Many 
persons  exclude  fresh  air  for  fear  of  dampness,  but  even  damp 
air  is  better  than  impure.  Even  in  cold  weather,  there  should 
be  a  free  circulation  of  air.  If  there  are  no  ventilators,  let  the 
air  circulate  from  the  tops  of  the  windows,  rather  than  admit 
it  by  opening  the  door,  which  is  apt  to  produce  a  draft.  Mean- 
time keep  up  a  good  fire ;  if  practicable,  let  it  be  a  wood  fire, 
but  if  this  be  not  attainable,  have  an  open  grate,  with  ^  coal 
fire.  The  sight  of  a  bright  blaze  is  calculated  to  cheer  the 
patient,  while  the  sight  of  a  dark,  close  stove  is  depressing.  By 
no  means  allow  a  sick  person  to  be  in  a  room  warmed  by  a  flue 
or  register. 

The  old  idea  of  darkening  the  sick-room  is  exploded.  It 
should  be  darkened  only  when  the  patient  wishes  to  sleep.  If 
the  eyes  are  weak,  admit  the  sunshine  from  a  quarter  where  it 
will  not  fall  upon  them.  The  modern  science  of  physics  has 
come  to  recognize  sunshine  as  one  of  the  most  powerful  of 
remedial  agencies,  and  cases  are  not  rare  in  which  invalids  have 
been  restored  to  health  by  using  sun-baths,  and  othei'wise  freely 
enjoying  the  sunshine. 

It  is  best  to  have  no  odors  in  the  sick-room  unless  it  be  bay 
rum,  German  cologne,  or  something  else  especially  fancied  by 
the  sick  person.  Where  there  is  any  unpleasant  exhalation, 
it  is  far  better  to  let  it  escape  by  properly  ventilating  the  room. 


THE  8ICK-E00M — DIET  AND  KEMEDIES  FOB  THE  SIOK.    477 

than  to  try  to  overcome  it  by  the  aid  of  perfumery.  In  fevers, 
where  there  are  oftensiva  exhalations  from  the  body,  sponging 
with  tepid  water  will  help  to  remove  the  odor,  and  will  also 
prove  soothing  to  the  patient.  In  winter,  expose  but  a  small 
portion  of  the  body  at  a  time,  in  sponging.  Then  rub  gently 
with  the  hand  or  a  coarse  towel,  and  there  will  be  no  danger  of 
the  patient's  taking  cold,  even  in  winter. 

Be  careful  to  keep  warm,  soft  flannels  on  the  sick  person  in 
winter.  In  summer,  do  not  keep  a  pile  of  bedclothes  on  the 
patient,  even  though  chilly.  It  is  better  to  keep  up  the  circu- 
lation by  other  means,  such  as  rubbing  or  stimulants.  Scrupu- 
lous neatness  should  be  observed  about  the  bed-linen  (as  well 
as  the  other  appointments  of  the  sick-room).  Never  use  bed- 
quilts  or  comforts ;  they  are  not  only  heavy,  but  retain  the 
exhalations  from  the  body.     Use  soft,  fleecy  blankets  instead. 

The  nurse  should  watch  her  opportunity  of  having  the  bed- 
clothes taken  into  the  fresh  air  and  shaken,  and  the  bed  made 
up,  when  the  patient  Las  been  lifted  up  and  set  in  an  easy-chair 
near  the  fire.  The  arrangements  about  the  bed  should  be 
quickly  made,  so  that  the  patient  may  be  able  to  lie  down 
again  as  soon  as  fatigued.  Let  such  sweeping  and  dusting  as 
are  necessary  be  also  done  with  dispatch,  using  a  dust-pan  to 
receive  the  dust  from  the  carpet.  Avoid  clouds  of  dust  from 
the  carpet,  and  of  ashes  from  the  fireplace. 

The  nurse  has  a  very  important  part  to  play,  as  physicians 
say  that  nursing  is  of  equal  importance  as  medical  attendance. 
The  nurse  should  be  careful  not  to  wear  a  dress  that  rustles, 
nor  shoes  that  creak,  and  if  the  patient  has  any  fancy,  or  any 
aversion  connected  with  colors,  she  should  regard  it  in  hei 
dress.  Indeed,  the  patient  should  be  indulged  in  every  fancy 
that  is  not  hurtful. 

The  nurse  should  be  prompt  in  every  arrangement.  Where 
blisters  or  poultices  are  to  be  used,  she  should  not  wait  till  the 
last  moment  to  prepare  them,  biit  should  do  so  before  uncover- 
ing the  patient  to  apply  them,  or  even  broaching  the  subjects 


4:78    THE    SICK-KOOM DIET  AND  REMEDIES  FOE  THE  SIOK. 

If  anything  painful  or  distasteful  has  to  be  undergone  by  the 
patient,  it  should  not  be  discussed  beforehand  with  or  before 
the  patient ;  but  when  all  is  in  readiness,  with  cheerful  and 
soothing  words,  let  it  be  done. 

The  patient  should  never  be  kept  waiting  for  food,  medicine, 
bath,  or  any  other  requisite.  Every  arrangement  should  be 
made  beforehand  to  supply  his  or  her  needs  in  good  tiuie. 
Crushed  ice  and  other  needful  things  should  be  kept  always  at 
hand,  so  the  patient  may  have  them  at  any  moment  without 
delay.  Especially  on  the  approach  of  night,  try  to  provide 
ever'ything  needed  during  the  night,  such  as  ice,  mustard,  hot 
water,  kindling  wood,  a  large  piece  of  soapstone  for  the  feet, 
as  this  is  more  cleanly  and  retains  heat  better  than  other 
things  used  for  the  purpose.  Other  things,  such  as  the  nature 
of  the  sickness  may  call  for,  should  be  thought  of  and  pro- 
vided before  nightfall. 

As  the  sick  are  very  fastidious,  all  food  for  them  must  be 
prepared  in  the  most  delicate  manner.  Do  not  bring  the 
same  article  of  food  several  times  consecutively,  but  vary  it 
from  time  to  time.  Do  not  let  a  sick  person  have  any  article 
of  food  forbidden  by  a  physician,  as  there  are  many  reasons 
known  to  them  only,  why  dishes  fancied  by  the  sick  should  be 
injurious. 

Avoid  whispering,  as  this  excites  nervousness  and  appre- 
hension on  the  part  of  the  sick.  Do  not  ask  in  a  mournful  tone 
of  voice  how  the  patient  is.  Indeed,  it  is  best  to  ask  the  sick  as 
few  questions  as  possible.  It  is  far  better  to  watch  their  symp- 
toms for  yourself  than  to  question  them.  Examine  for  j'ourself  if 
their  feet  are  warm,  and  endeavor  to  discover  their  condition 
and  their  wants,  as  far  as  possible,  without  questions. 

In  a  case  of  illness,  many  well-meaning  persons  crowd  to  see 
the  patient ;  do  not  admit  them  into  the  sick-room,  as  it  is  both 
exciting  and  fatiguing  to  an  ill  person  to  see  company,  and, 
when  in  a  critical  condition,  the  balance  might  be  disastrously 
turned  by  the  injudicious  admission  of  visitors.     Both  n^nd 


AEKOWKOOT.  479 

and  body  must  be  kept  quiet  to  give  the  patient  a  chance  for 
recovery.  When  well  enough  to  listen  to  conversation,  the 
patient  should  hear  none  but  what  is  cheerful  and  entertain- 
ing, never  any  of  an  argumentative  or  otherwise  unpleasant 
nature. 

Do  not  allow  the  patient  to  read,  as  it  is  too  great  a  tax  on 
the  sight  and  brain  before  convalescence.  Suitable  books,  in 
lai'ge  print,  are  a  great  resource  to  the  patient  when  arrived  at 
this  stage,  but  shovild  be  read  only  in  moderation. 

Driving  out  is  a  delightful  recreation  for  convalescents,  and 
they  should  be  indulged  in  it  as  soon  as  the  physician  pronoun- 
ces it  safe.  In  winter,  they  should  be  carried  driving  about 
noon,  so  as  to  enjoy  the  sunshine  at  its  warmest.  In  summer, 
the  cool  of  the  morning  or  evening  is  the  best  time  to  drive  them 
out ;  but  if  the  latter  time  be  chosen,  be  careful  to  return  imme- 
diately after  sundown.  Make  arrangements  for  the  patient 
on  returning  to  find  the  room  thoroughly  cleaned,  aired,  and 
adorned  with  fresh  flowers  (always  so  cheering  in  a  sick-room), 
and  let  the  bed  be  nicely  made  up  and  turned  down.  It  is  well 
to  have  some  little  refreshment  awaiting  after  the  drive — a  little 
cream  or  milk  toddy,  a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee,  or,  if  the  weather  be 
hot,  some  cooling  draught  perhaps  would  be  moi-e  acceptable. 
It  is  well  to  keep  the  convalescent  cheered,  by  projecting  each 
day  some  new  and  pleasant  little  plan  for  the  morrow. 

Arrowroot. 
Break  an  egg.  Separate  the  yolk  and  white.  Whip  each  to 
a  stiff  fx'oth.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  and  a  little 
water  to  the  yolk.  Rub  till  smooth  and  free  from  lumps.  Pour 
slowly  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  watei",  stirring  all  the  time. 
Let  it  simmer  till  jelly-like.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  add 
a  tablespoonful  of  French  brandy.  Stir  in  the  frothed  white 
and  take  hot  in  winter.  In  summer,  set  first  on  ice,  then  stir 
in  the  beaten  white.  Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  water. — 
Mrs.  S.  2\ 


4:80  AKEOWEOOT — WINE   WHEY. 

Arrowroot. 
Mix  one  tablespoouful  arrowroot  with  enough  cold  "water  to 
make  a  paste,  free  from  lumps.  Pour  this  slowly  into  half  a 
pint  boiling  milk  and  let  it  simmer  till  it  becomes  thick  and 
jelly-like.  Sweeten  to  the  taste  and  add  a  little  nutmeg  or 
cinnamon, — Mrs.  H.  C.  M.  W. 

Seamoss  Farina. 
One  tablespoonful  in  one  quart  hot  water  makes  jelly ;  one 
tablespoouful   in   one  quart  milk   makes  blanc-mange.        Stir 
fifteen   minutes,  and,  while  simmering,  flavor   with    vanilla   or 
lemon.     Suitable  for  sick  persons. — 31.  L.  G. 

Eacahaut. 
One  pound  rice  flour,  one  pound  chocolate,^  grated  fine,  two 
tablespoonfuls  arrowroot.  From  a  half-pound  to  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Mix  well  together  and  put  in  a  close  jar.  To  one 
quart  milk,  rub  in  four  dessertspoonfuls  of  the  above  mixture. 
Give  it  a  boil  up  and  season  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  H.  T. 

Cracked  Wheat. 

Soak  the  wheat  in  cold  water  all  night.     Pour  oflf  this  water 

in  the  morning.     Pour  boiling  water  then  over  the  wheat  and 

boil  it  about  half  an  hour,  adding  salt  and  butter.     Eat  with 

cream. — Mrs.  A.  M. 

\ 

Breakfast  for  an  Invalid. 

•   Bread  twelve  hours  old,  an  egg  and  black  tea. — Mrs.  A, 

Food  for  a  Sick  Infant. 
Gelatine  two  inches  square,  milk  half  a  pint,  water  half  a 
pint,  cream  one-half  to  one  gill,  arrowroot  a  teaspoonful.     Sweet- 
en to  the  taste. — Mrs.  J'.  D. 

Wine  Whey. 
Put  half  pint  milk  over  the  fii-e,  and,  as  soon  as  it  begins  tg 


MILK   PUNCH — ESSENCE   OF   OHIOKBN.  481 

boil,  pour  slowly  into  it  a  wine-glass  of  sherry  wine,  mixed  with 
a  teaspoonful  white  sugar.  Grate  into  it  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  again,  take  it  oflf  the  fire.  When 
cool,  strain  for  use. — Mrs.  R.  C.  M.   W. 

Milk  Punch. 

Pour  two  tablespoonfuls  good  brandy  into  six  tablespoonfuls 

milk.     Add  two  teaspoonfuls  ground   loaf  sugar  and  a  little 

grated  nutmeg.     An  adult  may  take  a  tablespoonful  of  this 

every  two  or  three  hours,  but  children  must  take  less. — Mrs.  JR. 

C.M.W. 

Beef  Essence. 
Cut  one  pound  beef  in  small  bits,  sprinkle  with  a  very  little 
salt,  tie  up  in  a  close  stone  jar,  and  set  in  boiling  water.     Boil 
it  hard  an  hour  or  more,  then  strain  it.     Chicken  may  be  pre- 
pared the  same  way.     Nice  for  the  sick. — Mrs.  Col.  Wl 

Beef-Tea. 
Take  half  a  pound  fresh  beef  for  every  pint  of  beef-tea 
required.  Carefully  remove  all  fat,  sinew,  veins,  and  bone  from 
the  beef.  Cut  it  in  pieces  under  an  inch  square  and  let  it  soak 
twelve  hours  in  one-third  of  the  water  required  to  be  made  into 
tea.  Then  take  it  out  and  let  it  simmer  three  hours  in  the  re- 
maining two-thirds  of  the  water,  the  quantity  lost  by  evapora- 
tion being  replaced  from  time  to  time.  The  boiling  liquor  is 
then  to  be  poured  on  the  cold  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was 
soaked.  The  solid  meat  is  to  be  dried,  pounded  in  a  mortar, 
and  minced  so  as  to  cut  up  all  strings  in  it,  and  mixed  with  the 
liquid.  When  the  beef-tea  is  made  daily,  it  is  convenient  to 
use  one  day's  boiled  meat  for  the  next  day's  tea,  as  thus  it  has 
time  to  dry  and  is  more  easily  pounded.  Avoid  having  it 
sticky  and  too  much  jellied,  when  cold. 

Essence  of  Chicken. 
In  a  case  of  extreme  sickness,  when  it  is  important  that  what 
little  nourishment  the  patient  can  take  should  be  highly  con- 
-     .  41 


482  OHICKKN   JELLY — DET  TOAST. 

densed,  the  following  is  an  excellent  mode  for  concentrating,  in 
a  small  compass,  all  the  nutritive  properties  of  a  chicken. 

After  ^cking  the  chicken,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it  and 
cut  it  in  tieces,  as  if  for  frying.  Put  the  pieces  in  a  small 
glass  jar  (o:^, wide-mouthed  bottle),  stop  it  tightly,  and  put  it  in 
a  pot  of  cold  water,  gradually  heating  the  latter  till  it  boils. 
Let  the  jar  of  chicken  remain  in  the  water  till  the  juices  are 
well  extracted,  then  pour  them  off  for  the  patient. — Mrs.  M. 

c.  a 

Chicken  Jelly. 
Take  a  large  chicken,  cut  the  flesh  from  its  bones,  break  the 
bones,  soak  an  hour  in  weak  salt  and  water  to  extract  the  blood. 
Put  on  in  a  stewpan  with  three  pints  of  cold  water.  Simmer 
till  reduced  to  less  than  half  its  original  quantity.  Sprinkle 
a  little  salt  on  it,  and  strain  in  a  bowl.  Keep  on  ice. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

A  Nourishing  Way  to  Prepare  Chicken,  Squirrel,  or 
Beep  for  the  Sick. 
Put  in  a  clean,  glazed  jar  or  inner  saucepan.  Set  this  in 
another  vessel  of  boiling  water.  Cover  closely,  and  keep  boil- 
ing for  hours.  Season  the  juice  thus  extracted  with  a  little 
salt,  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  fresh  milk,  and  give  to  the  patient. . 

^Mrs.  T. 

Panada.  «• 

Lay  six  nice  crackers  in  a  bowl.  Sprinkle  over  them  pow- 
dered sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  adding  a  very  small  piece  of  fresh 
butter.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  crackers,  and  let  them 
remain  near  the  fire  half  an  hour.  Then  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
good  French  brandy,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  Madeira  wine,  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg. — Mrs.  T. 

Dry  Toast. 
Slice  thin,  some  nice,  white  bread,  perfectly  sweet.     Toast  a 
light  brown,  and  butter  with  fresh  butter. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


(boaiided  toast — aromatic  vinegae.  483 

Scalded  Toast. 

Prepare  and  toast  the  bread  as  above  directed,  ^Then  lay  in 
a  covered  disli  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it.  Turn  to  one 
side,  and  drain  out  the  water.  Then  put  fresh,  butter  on  each 
slice,  with  a  small  pinch  of  salt.  Serve  in  a  covered  dish. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

Milk  Toast. 

Slice  the  bread  thin,  toast  a  light  brown,  butter  each  side, 
and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt.  Put  in  a  covered  dish,  and 
pour  over  it  boiling  milk. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Carolina  Sjiall  Hominy. 

Wash  and  pick.     Drain,  and  soak  an  hour  in  cold  water. 

Drain  again,  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  with  one  pint  boiling  water 

to  one  pint  hominy.     Boil  till  dry  like  rice.     Eat  with  cream, 

butter  and  salt,  or  with  sugar,  butter  and  nutmeg. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Dishes  Suitable  for  the  Sick 
May  be  found  in  various  parts  of  this  work,  such  as  rice  pud- 
ding, baked  custard,  and  various  preparations  of  tapioca,  sago, 
and  arrowroot.     Grapes  are  valuable  in  fever,  and  also  good  for 
chronic  sore-throat. — Mrs.  jS.  T. 

Thieves'  Vinegar. 
A  handful  of  sage  and  the  same  of  mint,  tansy,  rue,  rose- 
mary, lavender,  and  thyme ;  one  ounce  of  camphor.  Put  in  a 
gallon  demijohn,  and  fill  with  good  vinegar.  Set  in  the  sun 
two  weeks  with  a  piece  of  leather  over  the  mouth,  then  stop 
tightly.— Jfrs.  D.  R. 

A.ROMATIC    YiNEGAR. 

Acetic  acid  (concentrated),  eight  ounces;  oil  of»lavender 
(Eng.),  two  drachms ;  oil  of  rosemary,  one  drachm ;  oil  of  cloves, 
one  drachm ;  gum  camphor,  one  ounce.  Dissolve  the  camphor 
(bruised)  in  the  acid,  then  add  perfumes.     After  standing  a 


484  SODA  MINT — ^MTJriTARD. 

few  days,  with  occasional  shaking,  strain,  and  it  is  ready  foi 
use.— 2)r.  E.  A.  C. 

Soda  Mint. 
Bicarb,  soda  (Eng.),  one  drachm ;  pure  water,  three  ounces  • 
spearmint  water,  four  ounces ;   glycerine,  one  ounce ;   ar.   spfcs. 
ammonia,  thirty-two  drops.    Mix  and  filter.     Dose,  from  twenty 
drops  to  a  tablespoonful,  according  to  age. — Dr.  E.  A.  G. 

Lime-Water. 
This  is  easily  prepared,  and  a  bottle  should  always  be  kept 
ready  for  use.  It  is  an  antidote  to  many  poisons  and  a  valua- 
ble remedy  in  a  sick-room.  Put  some  pieces  of  unslacked  lime 
in  a  bottle,  fill  up  with  cold  water,  keep  it  corked  and  in  a  cool, 
dark  place.  It  does  not  matter  about  the  quantity  of  lime,  as 
the  water  will  not  dissolve  more  than  a  certain  quantity.  It  is 
ready  for  use  in  a  few  minutes,  and  the  clear  lime-water  can  be 
poured  oflf  as  needed.  When  all  the  water  is  used,  fill  up  again, 
which  may  be  done  several  times  before  it  is  necessary  to  use 
fresh  lime. — Mrs.  T. 

Tarrant's  Effervescent  Seltzer  Aperient 
Is  an  invaluable  remedy  for  sick  headache,  nausea,  constipation, 
and  many  of  the  attendant  evils  of  dyspepsia.  Directions 
accompany  each  bottle.  Colic  and  other  violent  pains  of  the 
stomach  are  sometimes  instantly  relieved  by  adding  to  the  dose 
of  Seltzer  Aperient  a  teaspoonful  of  Brown's  Jamaica  Ginger. 

Brown's  Jamaica  Ginger 
xs  not  only  an  invaluable  remedy,  but  a  refreshing  and  delight- 
ful drink  may  be  made  from  it  in  summer,  when  iced  lemonade 
would  be  unsafe  and  iced  juleps,  etc.,  would  be  too  heating  for 
one  sufiering  from  over-fatigue.  Fill  a  goblet  with  crushed  ice, 
add  two  tea-poonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  of  Jamaica  gin- 
ger.    Fin  up  with  water,  stir  and  drink, — Mrs.  /S.  T. 

Mustard. 
It  is  not  safe  to  pass  a  day  without  mustard  in  the  house,  so 


MU8TAED  LEAVES  OB  PLASTEES — FOE  80SE-THEOAT.        485 

valuable  aro  its  medicinal  properties.  When  a  lai-ge  plaster  is 
wanted,  put  into  a  plate  or  bowl  two  tablespoonfuls  ground 
mustard.  Wet  it  with  cold  water  and  stir  with  a  spoon  or  knife 
till  a  smooth  paste.  Lay  on  an  inverted  tea-board  a  piece  of 
newspaper  twice  the  size  of  the  plaster  wanted.  On  one-half 
spread  evenly  and  thinly  the  mustard.  Fold  over  the  other  half 
and  fold  over  the  edges  as  if  to  hem  a  piece  of  cloth,  to  prevent 
the  mustard  from  getting  on  the  skin  or  clothing.  In  winter, 
warm  slightly  before  applying.  Keep  it  on  an  adult  fifteen 
minutes ;  on  a  child,  half  that  time.  In  this  way,  painful  blis- 
ters will  always  be  avoided.  If  the  pain  is  in  the  chest  or  stom- 
ach, place  the  same  plaster  on  the  back  just  opposite,  and  let 
it  remain  on  twenty  minutes  the  second  time.  Colman's  mus- 
tard is  considered  the  best  by  many  persons. 

Mustard  Leaves  or  Plasters. 
It  is  well  in  travelling  to  carry  a  package  of  these  plasters,  in 
case  of  sudden  sickness.  It  is  important  also  to  keep  them  at 
home,  as  sometimes  they  are  needed  suddenly  in  the  night,  and 
even  one  moment  gained  is  important  in  great  emergencies. 
Those  manufactured  by  &eabury  &  Johnson,  N.  Y.j  are  con- 
sidered excellent  and  superior  to  the  foreign  article. 

Compound  Syrup  of  Horehound  and  tar 
Is  excellent  for  coughs,  cplds,  bronchitis,  and  diseases  of  the 
chest.     Manufactured  by  Faulkner  &  Craighill,  Lynchburg,  Ya. 

For  Sore-Throat. 
Carbolic  acid  crystals,  pure,  half  a  drachm  ;  tincture  kino^  one 
drachm ;  chlorate  potash,  two  drachms ;  simple  syrup,  half  an 
ounce.     Water  sufficient  to  make  an  eight-ounce  mixture.     Gar- 
gle the  throat  eveiy  few  hours. — Dr.  T.  L.   TF. 

For  Sore- Throat. 
Rub  the  throat  well  with   camphorated  oil,  and  gargle  fre- 
quently with  a  strong  solution  chlorate  of  potash. — Mrs.  S.  T 


4:86  FOB  SORE-THROAT — THE  OCEAN  SALT. 

JFhr  Sore- Throat. 
Carbolic  acid,  fifteen  grains ;  chlorate  potash,  thirty  grains  i 
rose-water,  one  and  a  half  ounces ;  glycerine,  one-half  ounce. 
Use  as  a  gargle,  three  or  four  times  daily. — Mr.  M.  G. 

A  Cure  for  Epilepsy  {one  I  have  known  to  succeed  m  many 

cases). 
Procure  the  fresh  root  of  a  white  peony.  Scrape  and  cut  in 
pieces  an  inch  square.  Eat  one  three  times  a  day,  never  taking 
any  food  after  four  p.m.  Use  a  month,  stop  two  weeks  and 
begin  again.  The  best  way  to  keep  the  root  is  to  string  it  on  a 
cord.     The  red  peony  will  do,  if  you  cannot  get  the  white.—  - 

Mrs.  B.  a 

Cure  for  Cramp. 
Wet  a  cloth  in  spirits  turpentine  and  lay  it  over  the  place 
where  the  pain  is  felt.     If  the  pain  moves,  move  the  cloth. 
Take  five  drops  spirits  turpentine  at  a  time  on  white  sugar  till 
relieved. — Mrs.  H. 

For  Cramp-Colic,  or  Pain  Resulting  from  Disordered 
Bowels. 

One  teaspoonful  paregoric,  one  teaspoonful  Jamaica  ginger, 
one  teaspoonful  spirits  camphor,  one-half  teaspoonful  carbonate 
soda,  two  tablespoonfuls  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  whiskey. 
This  is  for  one  dose.     If  it  does  not  relieve  in  an  hour,  repeat. 

—J)r.  J.  T.W. 

For  Chilblains. 

Take  common  furniture  glue  from  the  pot,  spread  it  on 
a  linen  rag  or  piece  of  brown  paper,  and  apply  hot  to  the  chil- 
blain, letting  it  remain  till  the  glue  wears  ofil 

For  Fresh  Cuts. 
Varnish  them  with  common  furniture  varnish.     This  remedy 
has  been  known  to  prove  very  efficacioiis. — Mr.   HV. 

The  Ocean  Salt 
la   now  much   used    by  those  who    cannot  go  to  the  seaside 


BKEA8T   SALVE — PREVENTIVE   OF   80AKLET   FEVEK.      487 

Seventy-five  cents  for  half  a  bushel.     Dissolve  a  large  handful 
in  a  pitcher  of  water.     Use  a  sponge  to  rub  the  flesh. — Mrs.  A. 

Bkeast  Salve. 

Linseed  oil  (raw),  four  ounces  ;  mutton  tallow,  four  ounces  ; 
yellow  wax,  two  ounces ;  Burgundy  pitch,  one  ounce ;  Venice 
turpentine,  one  ounce ;  oil  lavender,  one-half  ounce ;  rosin,  one- 
half  ounce. 

Melt  together  and  strain  through  flannel.  Spread  lightly  on 
a  soft  linen  rag,  apply  to  the  breast,  and  the  relief  is  almost  in- 
stantaneous.— Dr.  JE.  A.  G. 

An  Excellent  Wash  for  Inflamed  Eyes. 
Sulph.  zinc,  two  grains  ;  wine  of  opium,  ten  drops  ;  distilled 
water,  one  ounce.     Mix.     Drop  two  or  three  drops  in  the  outer 
corner  of  the  eye  several  times  a  day. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

Eye-Water  for  Weak  Eyes. 
One  teaspoonful  laudanum,  two  teaspoonfuls  Madeira  wine, 
twelve  teaspoonfuls  rose-water. — Mrs.  E.  I. 

For  Earache. 
Equal  parts  of  laudanum  and  tincture  of  ai-nica.     Mix,  satur- 
ate a  piece  of  wool  in  the  mixture,  and  insert  in  the  ear. — Dr. 

E.  A.  a 

Toothache  Drops.  {Sure  aiire.) 
Morphia,  six  grains ;  half  on  ounce  each  of  tincture  aconite 
root,  chloroform,  laudanum,  creosote,  oil  cloves,  cajuput.  Add 
as  much  gum  camphor  as-  the  chloroform  will  dissolve.  Satu- 
rate with  the  above  mixture  a  piece  of  wool  and  put  it  in  the 
kollow  tooth,  being  certain  that  the  cavity  is  cleaned  out. — Dr. 

E.  A.  G. 

Preventive  of  Scarlet  Fever. 
Extract  belladonna  (pure),  three  grains  ;  cinnamon-water,  one 
drachm ;  distilled  water,  seven  drachms.     Mix,  label  poison,  and 
give  the  child  for  a  dose  as  many  drops  as  the  years  of  his  age. 
^    Dr.  E.  A.  G. 


488  rok  pbeventestg  scarlet  feveb — ^bursts  aud  scalds. 

For  Preventing  Scarlet  Fever. 
Extract  belladonna,  six  grains;  cinnamon- water,  one  draclim; 
white  sugar,  two  draclims ;  alcohol,  two  drachms ;  pure  water, 
thirteen  drachms.  Mix  thoroughly  and  label  belladonna,  jooiso?i. 
Dose,  one  drop  for  each  year  of  the  child's  age,  repeated  twice 
a  day.— ^r.  M  A,  C. 

To  Relieve  "Prickly  Heat." 

Sulphate  of  copper,  grains  ten ;  pure  water,  f.  §   i.  Mix  sol. 
Apply  with  camel-hair  brush  daily  or  oftener. — J)r.  E.  A.  C. 

For  Snake  Bites. 
Apply  ammonia  or  hartshorn  immediately  to  the  bite,  and 
swallow  ten  drops,  dissolved  in  a  wine-glass  of  water.     Said  to 
be  a  certain  remedy. — Mrs.  T. 

Remeby  for  Chicken  Cholera. 
Dip  a  small  feather  or  brush  into  tincture  of  iodine,  hold  the 
chicken's   mouth   open,  and    mop    the    inside   of    the   throat 
thoroughly  with  the  iodine.     This  treatment  has  proved  suc- 
cessful whenever  tried. — Mrs.  N.   G. 

Mashed  Finger. 
Bind  up  with  old  linen  and  keep  constantly  wet  with  cold 
water.  If  there  is  much  pain,  add  laudanum  or  tinctui-e  of 
arnica.  If  discoloration  and  swelling  remain,  after  the  pain 
subsides,  use  stimulating  liniment  to  encourage  a  flow  of  pure 
blood  and  the  washing  away  of  the  injured  blood. 

Burns  and  Scalds. 
If  the  burn  or  scald  is  serious,  send  immediately  for  a  physi- 
cian. In  the  meantime,  cover  with  wet  linen  cloths,  pouring  on 
more  water  without  removing  them,  till  the  pain  is  allcNdated, 
when  pure  hog's  lard  may  be  applied,  which  is  one  of  the  best 
and  most  easily  procured  dressings.  If  the  scald  or  bum  is 
trifling,  this  is  all  that  is  needed.   Lather  of  soap  from  the  shar- 


LINIMENT   FOK   EEOENT   BURNS — OHILL   PILLS.         489 

ing-cup  applied  by  the  brush  often  produces  relief.  White  of  egg 
applied  in  the  same  way  is  a  simple  and  useful  dressing.  Never 
tamper  with  a  bad  burn.  This  requires  the  skilful  treatment  of 
a  physician.  If  the  shock  is  great,  and  there  is  no  reaction,  ad- 
minister frequently  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  or  a  little 
brandy  and  water  till  the  patient  rallies. 

Liniment  for  Recent  Burns  and  Scalds. 
Take  equal  parts  of  lime-water,  linseed- oil,   and  laudanum. 
Mix  and  apply  on  a  soft  linen  rag.     Some  add  about  one-quarter 
quantity  commercial  sol.  carbolic  acid. — Dr.  E.  A.  G. 

Compound  Chalk  Mixture  for  Infants  and  Young 

Children. 

Prepared   chalk,    powdered    white    sugar,  gum  arabic,    two 

drachms  each.       Tincture    kino,  paregoric,  each   six  drachms. 

Lime-water,  one  ounce;   peppermint  water,  sufficient   for  four 

ounces. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  shake  well  before  administering.  Dose, 
from  half  to  a  teaspoonful,  accordin;  to  age  and  urgency  of  the 
case. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

A  Simple  Remedy  for  Dysentery. 
Black  or  green  tea  steeped  in  boiling  water  and  sweetened 
with  loaf  sugar.— Jfrs.  R.  C.  M.  W. 

Foe  Diarrhcea. 
Take  equal   parts  of  laudanum,  tincture  capsicum,  tincture 
camphor,  and  aromatic  syrup  rhubarb.     Mix.     Dose,  from  half 
to  a  teaspoonful,  in  water,  when  needed. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

Chill  Pills. 
Sulph.  quinine,  two    drachms;    arsenious    acid,   one  grain; 
strychnia,  one  grain  ;  Prussian  blue,  twenty  grains  ;  powdered 
capsicum,  one  drachm.     Mix,  and  make  sixty  pills.     Take  one 
pill  three  times  a  day. — Dr.  E,  A.  C 
21* 


490     cube  foe  cold  in  the  head — cough  remedies. 

Cube  tor  Cold  in  the  Head. 
Muriate  of  morphia,  two  grains ;  powdered  gum  arable,  t"WO 
drachms  ;  sub.  nit.  bismuth,  six  drachms. 
Mix  and  snuff  frequently. — Dr.  JE.  A.  C. 

Prompt  Remedy  for   Cold  in  the  Head. 

Sulph.    quinine,  twenty-four   grains ;    "cayenne    pepper,    five 

|rains.     Make  twelve  pills,  and  take  one  every  three  hours. — 

Mr.  K  G. 

Cure  for  Dyspepsia. 

Best  Turkish  rhubarb,  one  ounce ;  gentian  root,  bruised,  one- 
half  ounce ;  columbo,  one-half  ounce ;  orange  peel,  one-half 
ounce ;  fennel  seed,  one-half  ounce ;  best  French  biandy,  one 
quart.     This  will  bear  filling  up  several  times. 

For  Whooping-Cough. 
Drop  a  fresh,  unbroken  egg  in  lemon  juice.     When  dissolved, 
sweeten  and  give  a  spoonful  occasionally  when  the  cough  comes 
on. — Mrs.  E.  I. 

An  Excellent  Remedy  for  Coughs. 

Boil  three  fresh  lemons  till  quite  soft.  Then  slice  them  on 
a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Stew  them  together  fifteen  or  twenty 
minvxtes,  or  till  they  form  a  rich  syrup.  When  cool,  add  one 
tablespoonful  oil  of  sweet  almonds. 

Take  one  spoonful  or  more  when  the  cough  is  troublesome. — 
N.  A.  L. 

Remedy  for  Coughs. 

Boil  one  ounce  licorice  root  in  one-half  pint  of  water,  till  it 
is  reduced  one-half.  Then  add  one  ounce  gum  arable  and  one 
ounce  loaf  sugar.     Take  a  teaspoouful  every  few  hours. — N. 

A.Z. 

Hemedy  for  Coughs. 
Boil  three  lemons  for  fifteen  minutes.     Slice  them  thin  while 
hot  over  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar.     Put  on  the  fire  in  a  porce- 


BEMBDT  FOB  ASTHMA,  80KE-THR0AT,  OK  A  COUGH.       4:91 

Iain-lined  saucepan  and  stew  till  the  syrup  is  quite  thick. 
After  taking  it  from  the  fire,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  oil  of 
sweet  almonds.  Stir  till  thoroughly  mixed  and  cool.  If  more 
than  a  small  quantity  is  desired,  double  the  above  proportions. 
—Mrs.  J.  D.  L. 

Remedy  for  Asthma,  Sore-Throat,  or  a  Cough. 
Out  up  two  or  three  bulbs  of  Indian  turnip,  put  the  pieces  in 
a  quart  bottle,  which  fill  up  with  good  whiskey.  Dose,  a  table- 
spoonful,  three  or  four  times  a  day.  It  is  especially  desirable 
to  take  it  just  after  rising  and  just  before  going  to  bed.  Won- 
derful cures  of  asthma  have  been  efiected  by  this  remedy,  and 
many  persons  living  near  the  writer  have  tested  its  efficacy. 
The  bottle  will  bear  refilling  with  whiskey  several  times. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  in  procuring  the  genuine  Indian  tur- 
nip for  tliis  preparation,  as  there  is  a  poisonous  plant  much 
resembling  it. — Mrs.  M.  L. 

Remedy  for  Poison  Oak. 
Make  a  strong  decoction  of  the  leaves  or  bark  of  the  common 
willow.      Bathe  the  parts  affected  frequently  with  this  decoc- 
tion, and  it  will  be  found  a  very  efficacious  remedy. —  Gen.  M. 

Hemedy  for  Poison  Oak. 
Forty  grains  caustic  potash  to  five  ounces  of  water.      Apply 
to  the  eruption  with  a  small  mop,  made  by  tying  a  soft  linen 
rag  to  a  stick.     Often  a  speedy  cure. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Cure  for  Jaundice. 
Fill  a  quart  bottle  a  third  full  of  chipped  inner  cherrj  bark. 
Add  a  large  teaspoonful  soda,  and  fill  the  bottle  with  whiskey 
or  brandy.  Take  as  large  a  dose  three  times  a  day  as  the  system 
will  tolerate.  If  it  affects  the  iead  unpleasantly,  lessen  the 
quantity  of  bark      It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  few  hours. — Dr.  S. 


492   omsE  FOE  bonb  felon — good  treatment  foe  oboup. 

Cure  for  Bone  Felon. 
One  ounce  assafcetida  in  one  pint  vinegar,  as  hot  as  the  hand 
can  bear.     Keep  it  hot  by  placing  the  vessel  over  the  top  of  a 
teakettle.     Use  it  freqiiently  through  the  day,  an  hour   at  a 
time.     A  painful  but  effective  remedy. — Mrs.  J'.  D.  P. 

For  Treatiug  Corns. 
Apply  night  and  morning  with  a  brush  one  or  two  drops  of 
protoxide  of  iron  for  two  weeks. — Mrs.   W. 

Cure  for  Corns  between  the  Toes. 
Wet  them  several  times  a  day  with  hartshorn,  and  in  a  short 
time  they  will  disappear. — Mrs.  TFi  -S. 

Carrot  Salve  for  Blisters. 
Scrape  two  carrots  and  stew  in  two  tablespoonfuls  hog's  lard. 
Add  two  plantain  leaves.     When  the   carrots  are  well  done, 
strain. — Mrs.  E.  I. 

Liniment  for  Kheumatism. 
Half  an  ounce  gum  camphor,  half  an  ounce  saltpetre,  half  an 
ounce  spirits  ammonia,  half  a  pint  alcohol.     Old-fashioned  lini- 
ment, good  for  man  or  beast. — Mrs.  T. 

A  Good  Liniment. 
One  egg  beaten  light,  half  a  pint  spirits  turpentine,  half  a 
pint  good  apple  vinegar.     Shake  well  before  using.     Good  for 
sprains,  ruts,  or  bruises. — Mrs.  S. 

A  Good  Treatment  for  Croup. 
When  the  child  is  taken  with  a  hoarse,  tight  cough,  give  it 
immediately  from  ten  drops  to  half  a  teaspoon  of  hive  or  croup 
syrup,  or  if  you  have  not  these,  use  ipecac  syrup,  though  this 
is  less  rapid  in  its  effects.  Put  a  mustard  plaster  on  the  wind- 
pipe, and  let  it  redden  the  skin,  but  not  blister.  Put  the  feet  in 
mustard-water  as  hot  as  they  can  bear  it.     Then  wipe  theni  dry 


TO  TAKE  QUININE  WITHOUT  TASTENO  IT.  493 

and  keep  them  covered  warm.  A  child  from  three  to  six  years 
old  will  require  from  ten  drops  to  half  a  teaspoon  of  the  syrup 
every  half-hour  till  relieved.  From  six  to  twelve,  give  from  a 
half  teaspoon  to  a  full  teaspoon,  according  to  the  age  of  the 
patient.  Croup  requires  very  prompt  treatment.  If  home 
treatment  does  not  relieve,  send  immediately  for  a  physician. — • 
Mrs.  P.  W. 

To  Take  Quinine  without  Tasting  it. 
Put  a  little  of  the  mucilage  from  slippery  elm  in  a  teaspoon. 
Drop  the  quinine  on  it,  and  put  some  mucilage  on  top.      This 
will  make  the  quinine  slip  down  the  throat  without  leaving 
any  taste. — Mrs.  tT.  A.  8. 

Dressing  for  Blisters. 
The  first  dressing  should  be  of  coUard  leaves,  prepared  thus . 
With  a  sharp  knife  carefully  pare  smooth  all  the  stalk  and  vein- 
ing.  Then  scald  and  squeeze  each  one  to  a  pleasant  moisture, 
keeping  them  blood-warm  until  applied.  Second  dressing — 
pure  lard  or  mutton  suet  spread  evenly  and  thinly  on  a  soft 
linen  rag. — Mrs.  8.  T. 

An  Excellent  and  Simple  Salve  for  Boils. 
Melt  together,  in  equal  parts,  the  white  rosin  that  exudes  from 
the  common  pine  ti-ee  and  mutton  suet.     This  makes  a  good 
plaster  for  the  boil,  both  before  and  after  it  breaks. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

For  Boils. 
Slippery  elm  flour  wet  with  cold  water,  and  put  in  a  soft 
muslin  bag,  and  applied  to  the  boil  till  the  inflammation  sub- 
sides, is  an  admirable  remedy.  Then  apply  carbolic  salve  spread 
on  a  linen  rag,  which  is  a  good  di'essing  for  the  boil,  both  before 
and  after  it  breaks. — Mrs.  8.  T. 

To  Extinguish  the  Flames  when  the  Clothing  ha.s  taken 

Fire. 
First,  throw  the  person  on  the  ground  to  prevent  the  upward 


4d4  POE   WEAK  BACK — ^POISONS   AND   ANTIDOTKB. 

flames  from  being  inhaled.  Then  quickly  roll  the  person  in  a 
carpet  hearth-rug  or  blanket ;  if  neither  is  at  hand,  use  any 
woollen  garment,  such  as  a  coat,  overcoat,  or  cloak.  Keep  the 
blaze  as  much  as  possible  from  the  face,  wrapping  the  woollen 
garment  first  around  the  neck  and  shoulders.  Jumping  into 
bed  and  covering  up  with  the  bedclothes  is  also  a  good  plan. 

For  Weak  Back. 
Two  fcablespoonfuls  finely  powdered  rosin,  four  tablespoonfula 
white  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  quart  best  whiskey.  Dose, 
a  tablespoonful  three  times  a  day,  either  before  or  after 
meals.  Excellent  also  for  colds  or  weak  lungs ;  will  stop  an  ir- 
ritating cough.     Taken  half  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time. — Mrs.  G. 

Poisons  and  Antidotes. 

Acids — Sulphuric,  Citric,  Muriatic,  Phosphoric,  Oxalic, 
Citric,  Tartaric,  Acetic. — Give  freely  of  magnesia  or  soap- 
water  (half  an  ounce  white  soap  to  two  quarts  tepid  water). 
Also  very  weak  solutions  of  carbonate  of  soda  or  potassa  may 
be  used.  Give  demulcent  drinks  and  milk-baths,  cataplasms, 
antiphlogistics.     Avoid  lime-water. 

Alkalies — Caustic,  Potassa,  Soda,  Lime,  Strontia,  Paryta, 
cmd  tJieir  Carbonates. — Give  diluted  vinegar  in  abundance,  four 
ounces  vinegar  to  one  quart  water.  Citric  or  tartaric  lemon- 
ade, whites  of  eggs  with  tepid  water,  milk,  sweet-oil.  Baths, 
lotions,  fomentations. 

Arsenic. — Prompt  emetic.  Give  freely  of  hydrated  peroxide 
of  iron ;  dose,  half  an  ounce,  frequently  repeated.  If  this  is 
not  at  hand,  give  magnesia  in  large  quantities  of  tepid  water. 
Demulcent  drinks,  baths,  and  counter-irritants  over  the  stomach 
to  relieve  spasms. 

Carbolic  Acid. — Saccharated  lime  in  water;  also  demulcent 
drinks. 

Chloral. — Keep  the  patient  warm  in  bed,  with  hot  blankets 
and  hot  water  bottles,  the  bottles  also  to  be  applied  over  the 


POISONS   AND   ANTTOOTES.  4:9!i 

heart.  A  warm  bath  may  be  of  advantage.  If  respiration 
threatens  to  fail,  maintain  it  artificially,  and  apply  galvanic 
hi  ttery  (induced  current),  one  pole  over  pit  of  stomach  and  the 
other  over  lower  cervical  vertebrae. 

Chloroform. — Draw  out  the  tongue,  if  retracted.  Give  plentj^ 
of  air.  Raise  the  body  and  lower  the  head,  till  the  body  is 
almost  inverted.  Maintain  artificial  respiration.  Use  the  gal- 
vanic battery  as  above  directed. 

Copper,  Salts  of. — Cause  vomiting,  and  then  give  freely  of 
whites  of  eggs  and  water,  demulcent  drinks,  soothing  clysters, 
lotions,  fomentations.     Avoid  vinegar. 

Corrosive  Sublimate. — First,  cause  vomiting,  then  give 
whites  of  eggs  in  water,  four  whites  to  one  qiiart  water.  Milk, 
demulcent  drinks,  and  gargles. 

Gases.- — The  antidote  for  chlorine  is  to  inhale  ammonia. 
Asphyxia  by  other  gases,  treated  by  cold  applications  to  the 
head,  plenty  of  air,  artificial  respiration. 

Glass,  in  powder. — Farina  or  light  food  in  abundance.  Then 
an  emetic,  then  milk  and  demulcent  drinks. 

Iodine. — Starch- water  containing  albumen  in  large  quantities, 
or  starch-water  alone. 

Lead,  Salts  of. — White  of  eggs,  epsom  salts,  or  sulphuric 
acid  lemonade.  (One  drachm  diluted  acid  to  a  quart  sweetened 
water. ) 

Nitrate  of  Silver  (lunar  caustic). — Give  salt  water  freely. 

Opium  and  Salts  of  Morphine. — Cause  free  vomiting  by 
sulphate  of  zinc,  sulphate  of  copper,  and  tartar  emetic,  and  use 
the  stomach-pump.  Then  administer  one-sixteenth  grain  atro- 
pine, hypodermically,  and  repeat  with  caution  till  the  pupils 
dilate.  Also  give  strong  coffee  or  tea.  Keep  the  patient 
awake.  If  depression  and  drowsiness  are  extreme,  bleeding 
may  do  the  patient  good. 

Phosphorus. — Emetic,  then  water  with  whites  of  eggs,  mag- 
nesia in  suspension,  milk.     Avoid  oils. 

Prussia  Acid. — Affusions  of  water  over  the  cervical  verte 


496  HOTTSE-OLBANINO. 

brae  Cause  the  gas  from  chlorine  water  to  be  inhaled.  Q-ive 
from  twenty  to  forty  drops  of  Labbaraque's  solution  largely 
diluted,  also  coffee. 

Strychnine. — Cause  vomiting.  Give  ether  or  chloroform  by 
inhalation,  and  chloral  internally.     Insufflate  the  lungs. 

Tartar  Emetic. — If  there  is  vomiting,  favor  it  by  giving 
whites  of  eggs  with  water  in  large  quantities,  then  give  infu- 
sion of  gall  or  oak  bark.  If  vomiting  is  not  free,  use  the 
stomach-pump. 

Venomous  Sites y  Serpents. — Apply  a  moderately  tight  liga- 
ture above  the  bite.  Wash  the  wound  freely  with  warm  water 
to  encourage  bleeding,  then  cauterize  thoroughly.  Afterwards 
apply  lint  dipped  in  equal  parts  of  olive-oil  and  spirits  harts- 
horn. Internally  give  freely  of  alcoholic  stimulants,  with  Kquid 
ammonia,  largely  diluted. 

Mabid  Dogs. — Apply  ligature  as  above  described,  wash  the 
wound  thoroughly  with  warm  water,  and  cauterize  immediately 
with  nitric  acid  or  lunar  caustic,  leaving  no  part  of  the  wound 
untouched. 


HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Do  not  clean  but  one  room  at  a  time,  as  it  is  a  bad  plan  to 
have  the  whole  house  in  confusion  at  once.  It  is  best  to  com- 
mence with  the  attic. 

Before  beginning  on  your  spring  cleaning,  remove  the  cur- 
tains, all  the  movable  furniture,  and  the  carpets.  With  a 
broom  and  dust-pan  remove  all  dust  from  the  floor.  Then 
with  a  wall-brush  thoroughly  sweep  and  dust  the  ceiling  and 
side-walla,  window  and  door  frames,  pictures  and  chandeliers. 
Then  go  over  the  floor  again,  removing  the  dust  that  has  fallen 
from  the  ceiling  and  walls.  Then  proceed  to  wash  all  the  paint 
in  the  room.  If  it  be  white  paint,  use  whiting  or  such  other 
preparations  as  are  recommended  for  the  purpose  in  the  snbse- 


^  HOUSE-CLEAIONO.  497 

quent  pages.  If  it  be  varnished,  or  in  imitation  of  oak  or  wal 
nut,  wipe  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  milk-warm  water.  If  the 
wood  work  in  the  room  be  of  unvarnished  walnut  or  oak,  wipe 
it  off  first,  and  then  oil  it,  rubbing  in  the  oil  well. 

Then  with  a  soft  flannel  rag  and  a  cake  of  sapolio  clean  every 
piece  of  marble  in  the  room.  Nexb  wipe  the  mirrors  carefully 
with  a  flannel  rag,  wrung  out  of  warm  water  and  dipped  in  a 
little  whiting,  or  you  may  rub  a  little  silver  soap  on  the  rag. 
The  gilding  must  be  merely  dusted,  as  the  least  dampness  or  a 
drop  of  water  will  injure  it. 

The  windows  (sash  and  all)  must  then  be  washed  in  soap 
and  water,  with  a  common  brush  such  as  is  used  for  washing 
paint.  A  little  soda  dissolved  in  the  water  will  improve  the 
appearance  of  the  windows.  It  is  unnecessary  to  use  such  a 
quantity  of  soap  and  water  as  to  splash  everything  around. 
After  being  washed,  the  windows  should  be  polished  with  news- 
papers. Except  in  a  general  house-cleaning,  windows  may  be 
cleaned  by  the  directions  given  above  for  mirrors. 

The  metal  about  the  dooi'- knobs,  tongs,  etc.,  may  be  cleaned 
by  electro- silicon,  and  the  grates  may  be  varnished  with  the 
black  varnish  kept  for  the  purpose  by  dealers  in  grates,  stoves, 
etc.  Every  chair  and  article  of  furniture  should  be  cai^efully 
cleaned  before  being  brought  back  into  the  room,  and  linen 
covers  should  be  put  on  the  chairs.  If  you  are  going  to  put 
down  matting,  do  so  before  bringing  back  the  first  article  of 
furniture.  Some  housekeepers,  however,  allow  their  matting 
to  remain  during  the  winter  under  their  carpets.  Spots  on 
matting  may  be  removed  by  being  scoured  with  a  cloth,  dipped 
first  in  hot  water  and  then  in  salt.  This,  however,  will  cause 
wet  spots  to  appear  on  it  in  damp  weather.  After  the  spots 
are  removed,  scrub  the  matting  with  dry  corn-meal  and  a  coarse 
cloth.     Sweep  it  over  several  times,  till  all  the  meal  is  removed. 

For  persons  who  do  not  use  matting  in  summer,  a  recipe  is 
given  later  for  beautifully  coloring  the  floor  with  boiled  linseed 
oil  and  burnt  sienna.     Where  difierent  woods  are  used  alter 

42 


4:98  WHITEWASH  FOB  OUTDOOK  TJ8E.  . 

nately  in  the  floor,  this  oil  answers  better  than  revarnishiug  the 
floor  every  spring. 

As  soon  as  the  carpets  are  taken  up,  have  them  nicely 
shaken,  swept,  and  brushed  on  both  sides.  .  Every  spot  should 
be  carefully  washed  and  wiped  dry.  The  carpets  should  then 
be  rolled  ujj  smoothly,  with  tobacco  sprinkled  between  the 
folds,  sewed  up  in  coarse  linen  cloths,  and  put  away  till  autumn. 
A  cedar  closet  is  an  excellent  place  to  keep  carpets  as  well  as 
other  woollens.  If  you  have  no  cedar  closet,  however,  a  cedar 
chest  will  serve  to  protect  your  woollen  clothes  against  moths, 
and  it  is  better  to  preserve  them  in  this  way  than  to  sprinkle 
them  with  tobacco,  which  imparts  an  unpleasant  scent  to  them. 

Whitewash  for  Outdoor  Use. 

Take  good  quick-lime  in  lumps.  Slack  it  with  hot  water,  and 
while  slacking  add  to  what  will  make  a  pailful  one  pound 
tallow  or  other  grease,  free  from  dirt.  It  may  be  rancid,  smoked, 
or  otherwise  unfit  for  kitchen  use. 

When  the  violent  slacking  is  over,  stir  thoroughly.  All  the 
water  should  be  added  before  the  slacking  ceases,  and  the  mix- 
ing togetlier  should  be  thorough.  Do  not  dilute  with  cold 
water.  If  well  made,  it  will  be  very  smooth  and  but  little 
affected  by  rain. — Mrs.  E. 

Indoor  Whitewashing. 
We  have  recently  seen  recommended  in  a  journal  a  fine 
and  brilliant  whitewash  preparation  of  chalk,  called  "  Paris 
White,"  and  said  to  be  admirable  for  whitewashing  walls.  It  sells 
in  paint  stores  at  three  cents  per  pound,  retail.  For  every  sixteen 
pounds  Paris  White,  get  half  a  pound  white  transparent  glue. 
Cover  the  glue  with  cold  water  at  night,  and  in  the  morning 
heat  it,  without  scorching,  till  dissolved.  Stir  in  the  Paris 
White  with  hot  water  to  give  it  a  milky  consistency.  Then  add 
and  mix  well  the  glue.  Apply  with  a  common  lime  whitewash 
brush.  A  single  coating  will  do,  except  on  very  dingy  walls. 
Almost  as  brilliant  as  "  Ziuc  White."— Jfrs.  S.  T. 


TO   OIL   FLOORS — TO    WASH   OAEPETS.  499 

To  Oil  Floors. 
To  one  gallon  boiled  linseed  oil  add  half  a  pound  burni 
sienna.  The  druggist  who  sells  these  articles  will  mix  them. 
If  economy  is  necessary,  instead  of  employing  a  painter  to  put 
it  on,  dip  a  large  woollen  rag  into  the  mixture,  and  with  this 
wipe  over  the  floor. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Dye  Floors  a  Pretty  Color. 

Make  a  strong  decoction  of  the  inside  bark  of  red  oak.  Set 
it  a  dark  color  with  copperas. 

Have  the  floors  well  swept  and  cleaned  of  spots.  Then  with 
a  cloth  rub  the  dye  in  well,  taking  care  to  wipe  up  and  down 
the  floor,  so  as  to  prevent  streaking. 

Let  it  dry,  then  wipe  over  with  weak  lye,  and  as  soon  as 
this  dries  ofi",  rub  with  a  waxed  brush. — Mrs.  Dr.  P.  C. 

To  Clean  Paint. 
Wring   out   a   clean   flannel,    take    up   as    much    powdered 
whiting  as  will    adhere  to  it,  then  rub  the  paint.     Wash  off* 
with  clean  water  and  rub  dry  with  a  soft  cloth,  and  it  will  look 
new.     Not  for  paint  in  imitation  of  oak. — 3frs.  R. 

To  Wash  Oil-Cloth. 
Wash  oil-cloths  with  salt  water ;  say,  one  pint  salt  dissolved . 
in  a  pailful  water.     When  dry  wipe  over  with  a  little  nnillr  and 
water. — Mrs.  II .  D. 

To  Wash  Oil- Cloth. 
Sweep  it  well.     Wash  with  cold  water,  using  a  brush.     Then 
wash  with  milk  and  wipe  dry.     Never  use  hot  water. — Mrs.  M. 

To  Wash  Carpets. 
Shake,  beat,  and  sweep  well.     Tack  firmly  on  the  floor.     Mix 
three  quarts  soft,  cold  water  with  one  quart  beef's  gall.     Wash 
with  a  flannel,  rub  oS"  with  a  clean  flannel,  immediately  aftei 
putting  it  on  each  strip  of  carpet. — Mrs.  H. 


500  TO   KEMOVE    INK   FROM   CAJIPBTS. 

Carpets  should  be  washed  in  spots,  with  a  brush  or  flannel, 
one  tablespoonful  ox-gall  in  one  or  two  quarts  water.. — Mrs.  A. 

To  Remove  Ink  from  Carpets, 
Take  up  the  ink  with  a  spoon.  Pour  cold  water  on  the 
stained  spot,  take  up  the  water  with  a  spoon,  and  repeat  this 
process  frequently.  Then  rub  on  a  little  oxalic  acid  and  wash 
off  immediately  with  cold  water.  Then  wet  with  hartshorn. — ■ 
Mrs.  M. 

To  Clean  Marble  Slabs,  etc. 
Sal  soda,  four  ounces;  powdered  pumice-stone,  two  ounces; 
prepared  chalk,  two  ounces.     Mix  well,  add  sufficient  water,  rub 
well  on  the  marble,  and  then  wash  with  soap  and  water. — Dr. 
E.  A.  G. 

SapoKo,  rubbed  on  a  flannel  rag  which  has  just  been  dipped 
in  hot  water  and  squeezed,  is  also  good  for  cleaning  marble. — 
Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Wall  Paper. 
Dip  a  flannel  in  spirits  of  wine  and  go  carefully  over  the 
soiled  places  once  or  twice. — Mrs.  H. 

To  Clean  Furniture. 
One-half  pint  linseed  oil,  one'half  pint  vinegar,  one-half  pint 
turpentine.     Apply  with  a  flannel  rag,  and  then  rub  with  a  dry 
flannel. — Mrs.  H.  S. 

To  Clean  Varnished  Furniture,  Mahogany  Especially. 
Wash  the  piece  of  furniture  with  warm  water  and  soaj),  and 
then  rub  dry ;  afterwards  take  a  flannel  rag,  and  rub  with  the 
following  mixture  :  equal  proportions  of  vinegar,  sweet-oil,  and 
spirits  of  turpentine,  in  a  bottle  which  must  be  shaken  befor« 
using. — Mrs.  McG. 

An  Excellent  Furniture  Polish. 
Alcohol,    three    ounces;  linseed    oil,   boiled,    two    ounces 


FUENITURE   POLISH — TO   CLEAN   BRASSES,  ETC.  501 

oxalic  acid,  one  drachm ;  gum  shellac,  two  drachms ;  gum  ben- 
zoin, two  drachms ;  rosin,  two  drachms.  Dissolve  the  gums  in 
the  alcohol,  and  then  add  oil  and  oxalic  acid.  Apply  with  a 
woollen  cloth.— i>r.  E.  A.   G. 

Furniture  Polish. 

One  pint  of  alcohol,  one  pint  of  spirits  of  turpfentine,  one  and 
one-half  pint  of  raw  linseed  oil,  one  ounce  balsam  fix-,  one  ounce 
ether.  Cut  the  balsam  with  the  alcohol,  which  will  take  about 
twelve  hours.  [That  is  to  say,  dilute  the  balsam  with  the 
alcohol.]  Mix  the  oil  with  the  turpentine  in  a  separate  vessel 
and  add  the  alcohol,  and  last  the  ether.  —  Gr.  O.  W. 

To  Clean  Silver. 
There  is  nothing  better  for  this  purpose  than  Colgate's  Silver 
Soap,  and  Robinson's  Indexical  Silver  Soap,  made  in  Boston. 
After  the  silver  has  been  cleaned,  according  to  the  directions 
accompanying  each  package  of  the  aforementioned  kinds  of 
soap,  wash  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of 
ammonia  has  been  poured. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Glean  Silver. 
Make   a  paste   of  whiting  and   spirits  of  wine.     Put  it  on 
with  a  soft  cloth,  then  rub  it  off  also  with  a  soft  cloth,  and 
polish  with  chamois  skin. — Jifrs.  H. 

To  Remove  Egg  Stains  from  Silver  Spoons. 
Rub  with  salt,  atid  it  will  entirely  remove  the  discoloration 
produced  by  eating  a  boiled  egg  with  a  silver  spoon.     Rubbing 
with  salt  will  also  remove  the  grayish  streaks  that  collect  on 
white  tea-china  by  careless  usage. — il/rs.  3f.  G.  G. 

To  Clean  Brasses,  etc. 
Electro-silicon,    manufactured   by  J.    Seth   Hopkins  &   Co., 
Baltimore,  is  the  best  article  that  can  be  procured  for  this  pur- 
pose.    The  price  is  twenty-five  cents  per  box,  with  full  direc- 


502  FOR   THE   KITCHEN. 

tions  for  use.     It  may  be   procured   of  any  druggist.     If  not 
convenient  to  get  it,  use  powdered  brick-dust. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

For  the  Kitchen. 
Sapolio,  manufactured  by  Enoch  Morgan  &  Sons,  should  be 
in  every  kitchen.     It  is  invaluable  for  cleaning  tins,  iron-ware, 
knobs,  and  is  so  neat  a  preparation  that  it  does  not  blacken  the 
han  Is. 

The  Dover  Egg -Beater 
Is  indispensable  to  housekeepers.     It  froths  eggs  in  less  than 
a  fourth  of  the  time  a  spoon  or  an  ordinary  egg-beater  requires 
to  froth  them.— Jfrs.  S.  T. 

To  Remove  Rust  from  Knives  or  any  Steel. 
Rub    very    hard    with   a   piece    of  wash   leather,  dipped  in 
powdered  charcoal,  moistened  with  spirits  of  wine.     Rub  oflf 
quickly,  wash  in  hot  water-,  and  renew  as  may  be  necessary. — 
Mrs.  K. 

To  Glean  Knives,  Tins,  etc. 

Crystal  Kitchen  Soap,  manufactured  by  Eastman  &  Brooke, 
Philadelphia,  is  excellent  for  tliis  purpose,  being  so  neat  a 
compound  that  the  knives  and  coflee-pot,  as  well  as  the  tins 
used  in  the  preparation  of  breakfast,  may  be  quickly  cleaned  at 
the  table  while  the  tea-cliiua  is  being  washed. 

When  not  convenient  to  obtain  the  Crystal  Kitchen  Soap, 
knives  may  be  cleaned' with  ashes  either  of  coal  or  wood. — Mrs. 
S.  T. 

To  Whiten  the  Ivory  on  the  Handles  of  Knives. 
The  ivory  handles  of  knives  sometimes  become  yellow  from 
being  allowed  to  remain  in  dish-water.  Rub  them  with  sand- 
papev  till  white.  If  the  blades  have  become  rusty  from  cax*eless 
usage,  rub  them  also  with  sandpaper  and  they  will  look  as  nice 
as  new. — Mrs.  S.  T, 


mixruite  fob  shading  glass — eemedy  fob  losd  aitts.  503 

Mixture  for  Shading  Glass. 
Spanisli  whiting,  one  pound ;  white  glue,  one-quarter  pound ; 
litharge,  one  ounce  ;  alum,  one  ounce.  Boil  the  glue  and  alum 
in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water.  Let  it  cool,  then  add  the 
whiting  and  litharge.  Stir  well  and  use  at  once.  It  may  be 
washed  or  scraped  off,  if  desired. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

Cement  for  Rubber  and  Glass. 
Pulverized  gum  shellac  in   ten   times  its  weight  of  strong 
spirits  hartshorn. — Dr.  E.  A.  G. 

To  Destroy  Bedbugs. 
Dissolve  one  ounce  corrosive  sublimate  in  one  pint  strong 
^pirits.     Put  it  on  the  bedsteads  with  a  feather,  and  it  will  de- 
stroy the  bugs  and  their  eggs  also. — Mrs.  Dr.  P.  G. 

Bedbug  Poison. 

Alcohol,  two  and  a  half  pints ;  camphor,  one  ounce ;  spirits  tur- 
pentine, one  ounce  ;  corrosive  sublimate,  half  an  ounce.  Mix  and 
dissolve.  If  the  scent  is  not  objectionable,  two  ounces  com- 
mercial carbolic  acid  will  greatly  improve  the  above. — Dr.  M. 
A.  G. 

To  Destroy  Bugs,  Ants,  etc. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  alum  in  three  quarts  boiling  water. 
Apply  boiling  hot  with  a  brush.  Add  alum  to  whitewash  for 
store-rooms,  pantries,  and  closets.  lb  is  well  to  pound  alum  fine 
and  sprinkle  it  about  beds  infested  with  bugs. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Remedy  for  Red  Ants. 

Kerosene  oil  is  a  sure  remedy  for  red  ants.  Place  small 
blocks  under  a  sugar  barrel,  so  as  not  to  let  the  oil  touch  the. 
barrel. — Mrs.  JT.   W. 

Cayenne  pepper  will  keep  the  store-room  and  pantry  free  from 
ants  and  cockroaches. — Mrs.  /S.  D, 


504    remedy  foe  mosquitoes  ok  blood-suceing  estseots. 

Remedy  for  Mosquitoes  or  other  Blood-sucking  Insects, 
Uncork  a  bottle  of  oil  of  pennyroyal,  and  it  will  drive  them 
away,  nor  will:  they  return  so  long  as  the  scent  of  it  is  in  the 
room. — Mrs.  S.  D. 

For  the  stings  of  insects,  wasps,  hornets,  bees,  etc.  Apply  to 
the  place  soda,  hartshorn,  or  arnica. 

Rats. 
Mix^  a  little  powdered  potash  with  meal  and  throw  it  into  the 
rat-hoies  and  it  will  not  fail  to  drive  the  rats  away.     If  a  mouse 
enters  into  any  part  of   your  dwelling,   saturate  a  rag  with 
cayenne  in  solution  and  stuff  it  into  his  hole. — Mrs.  S.  J). 

Concentrated  Lye  Soap. 

All  fat  and  grease  from  the  kitchen  should  be  carefully  saved, 
and  should  be  made  into  soap  before  accumulating  and  becoming 
offensive. 

Boil  for  six  hours  ten  gallons  of  lye  made  of  green  wood 
ashes.  Then  add  eight  or  ten  pounds  of  grease,  and  continue  to 
boil  it.  If  thick  or  ropy,  add  more  lye  till  the  grease  is 
absorbed.  This  is  ascertained  by  dropping  a  spoonful  in  a  glass 
of  water,  and  if  grease  remains  it  will  show  on  the  water. 

If  hard  soap  is  desired,  jjut  one  quart  of  salt  in  half-gallon  of 
hot  water.  Stir  till  dissolved  and  pour  into  the  boiling  soap. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  stirring  continually.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  and  when  cold  cut  in  cakes  and  dry.  A  box  of  concen- 
trated lye  may  be  used  instead  of  salt,  as  it  will  obviate  the 
necessity  of  using  more  dripped  lye  to  consume  the  grease. — 
Mrs.  P.  W. 

A  Washing  Mixture. 

Mix  and  boil  twenty  minutes  one  gallon  soft  soap ;  half  a 

gallon  of  weak  boiled  lye  ;  four  ounces  sal  soda  ;  half  a  gill  of 

spirits  turpentine.     Soak  the  clothes  overnight  in  milk-warm 

water.     ]n  the  morning,  rinse  and  wring  them.     To  every  gal- 


FOE  OLEAITINO  CLOTHES — TO  WASH  BLACK  CASHMERE.      505 

Ion  cold  water  add  one  pint  of  the  above  mixture.  Stir  it  well 
in  the  water.  Open  the  clothes  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes ;  rinse  out  of  those  suds.  If  the  articles  are  not  thoroughly 
cleansed,  rub  a  little  of  the  mixture  on  the  soiled  places,  and  the 
result  will  be  satisfactory. — Mrs.  Dr.  E. 


RECIPES  FOR  RESTORING  OLD  CLOTHES,  SETTING 
COLORS,  REMOVING  STAINS,  ETC. 

For  Cleaning  Clothes. 
Castile  soap,  one  ounce;  aqua  ammonia  (34),  a  quarter-pound; 
sulphur  ether,  one  ounce ;  glycerine,  one  ounce ;  spirits  wine, 
one  ounce.  Shave  the  soap  into  thin  pieces,  dissolve  it  in  two 
quarts  rain  (or  any  other  soft  water).  Then  add  the  other 
ingredients.  Rub  the  soiled  spots  with  a  sponge  or  piece  of 
flannel  and  expose  to  the  air. — Mrs.  S. 

Soap  to  Remove  Grease  from  Cloth. 
Detersive  soap,  three  pounds ;  alcohol,  two  pints ;  oxalic 
acid,  half  an  ounce ;  essential  oil  to  flavor.  First  bring  the 
alcohol  to  a  boil,  then  gradually  add  the  soap  (pared  in  thin 
shavings)  and  stir  constantly.  Then  add  the  acid  and  oil,  pour 
into  moulds  while  hot,  and  let  it  cool.  You  may,  of  course, 
make  it  in  smaller  quantities,  observing  the  same  relative  pro- 
portions.— Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

To  Remove  Spots  from   Cloth. 
Aqua  ammonia,  two  ounces  ;  alcohol,  two  ounces  ;  spirits  cam- 
phor, one  ounce  ;  transparent  soap,  one  ounce  ;   rain-water,  one 
quart. — Mr.  E.  C,  Jr. 

To  Wash  Black  Cashmere. 
Wash  in  hot  suds,  with  a  little  borax  in  the  water.     Rinse 
in  bluing  water,  and  iron  very  damp. 

43 


506  TO    RE8T<3RE   THE   PILB   OF  VELVET. 

To  Restoke  the  Pile  of  Velvet. 
Heat  a  large  flat-iron,  place  it  in  a  pan,  and  lay  on  it  a  \i?  et 
cloth.  The  steam  will  rise  rapidly.  Hold  the  right  side  of  the 
velvet  over  it.  If  this  does  not  restore  the  pile,  wet  it 
on  the  wrong  side.  Have  a  smooth  flat-iron  very  hot.  Set 
it  on  the  edge  of  the  table,  upright.  If  it  is  a  narrow  piece 
of  velvet,  it  may  be  easily  ironed  by  passing  the  wet  side  against 
the  iron.  If  a  large  piece,  have  some  one  to  hold  the  botton 
of  the  iron  upwards  while  the  wet  side  of  the  velvet  is  passed 
over  it. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Restore  old  Black  Silk. 
Pour  one  pint  boiling  water  on  two  tablespoonfuls  gum  arabic. 
When  a  little  cooled,  add  one  teaspoonful  spirits  turpentine  and 
the  same  of  spirits  ammonia.  With  a  large  sponge  wipe  the 
silk  on  both  sides  with  this  mixt^^re.  Then  lay  the  silk  on  an 
ironing-table,  place  over  it  a  thin  piece  of  colored  rice  cambric, 
and  iron  it  very  hard  with  a  hot  iron.  This  makes  old  silk 
look  like  new. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

To  Freshen  old  Black  Silk. 
Boil  one  ounce  crushed  soap  bark  in  one  quart  water  till  re- 
duced to  one  pint.     Strain  it ;  sponge  the  material  with  the 
liquid,  and  while  wet  iron  on  the  wrong  side.     Good  for  black 
woollens  also. — Mrs.  M.  E.  L.  W. 

To  Renew  Black  Crape  Veils. 
Wring  two  large  towels  out  of  water.  Then  put  the  veil 
(folded  across  the  middle,  lengthways)  on  the  lower  towel ; 
spread  the  other  on  top  and  roll  the  veil,  when  between,  in  a 
small  tight  roll.  Let  it  stand  an  hour,  or  till  it  is  damp  through. 
Take  it  out  and  air  it  a  little  before  it  dries.  Fold  it  then  in 
smooth  squares,  put  it  in  a  large  book,  such  as  an  atlas,  put 
heavy  weights  on  it,  and  let  it ;   stand  an  hour  or  two. — Mr». 

M.  c.  a 


TO  SET  OOLOES — FOR  EEMOVENG  FEUIT  OE  INK  STAINS.    507 

To  Set  Colors. 

Wash  in  strong  salt  or  alum  water  and  rinse  in  water  in 
which  Irish  potatoes  have  been  sliced  and  boiled,  to  stiffen. 

A  strong  tea  of  hay  or  fodder  preserves  the  color  of  brown 
linen.  One  spoonful  gall  to  a  gallon  of  water  will  set  the  colors 
of  almost  any  goods.  A  teaspoonful  sugar  of  lead  in  a  gallon 
cold  water  (some  say  a  tablespoonful  in  a  quart  soft  water) 
will  set  colors.     Let  the  material  soak  in  it  an  hour. 

A  teacup  of  lye  in  a  pail  of  water  will  improve  black  calicoes. 

To  Restore  Colors  that  have  been  taken  out. 
Rub  the  spots  with  hartshorn  and  place  in  the  sun  till  dry. 

To  Keep  Blue  Calicoes  Bright  and  Fresh. 
The  first   time   they  are  washed,  put    them  in  water  with  a 
cupful  spirits  of  turpentine  to  each  pail  of  water.     This  will 
set  the  color,  and  they  will  always  look  well. 

Mildew. 
Moisten  the  mildewed  spot  with  clear  water,  then  rub  over  it 
a  thick  coating  of  castile  soap.  Scrape  chalk  with  the  soap, 
mixing  and  rubbing  with  the  end  of  the  finger.  Then  wash  it 
ofi*.  Sometimes  one  coating  suffices,  but  generally  several  are  re- 
quired. 

Labaraque  Solution 

WUl  remove  mildew,  ink,  or  almost  any  fruit  stain  from  cloth. 
The  solution  should  be  washed  off  soon  after  applying,  as  it  may 
injure  the  cloth — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

To  Prevent  Fruit  Stains  from  being  Permanent. 
Wet  the  stained  spot  with  whiskey  before  sending  it  to  wash, 
and  there  will  be  no  sign  of  it  when  the  article  comes  in. 

For  Removing  Fruit  or  Ink  Stains. 
Two  drachms  chloride  of  lime,  two  drachms  acetic  acid,  onfl 
and  a  half  ounce  water.     Mix  well — Dr.  M.  A.  C. 


508  iron  bust — mxsoellaneotjs  recipes. 

Ikon  Rust. 
Salts  of  lemon  applied  to  the  place  and  exposed  to  the  sun 
will  remove  all  iron  rust  in  linen,  etc. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

Ammonia. 

No  housekeeper  should  be  without  a  bottle  of  spirits  of  am- 
monia, for,  besides  its  medical  value,  it  is  highly  useful  for 
household  purposes.  It  is  nearly  as  useful  as  soap,  and  its 
cheapness  brings  it  in  the  reach  of  all.  Put  a  teaspoonful 
immonia  in  a  quart  of  warm  soapsuds,  dip  in  a  flannel  cloth, 
wipe  off  the  dust  and  fly-specks,  and  see  how  much  scrubbing  it 
will  save  you. 

For  washing  windows  and  mirrors,  it  is  very  desirable.  A 
few  drops  on  a  piece  of  paper  will  take  off  every  spot  or  finger- 
mark on  the  glass. 

It  cleanses  and  brightens  silver  wonderfully.  Dip  your 
forks,  spoons,  etc.,  in  a  pint  of  suds,  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful 
spirits  ammonia.  Then  rub  with  a  brush  and  polish  with 
chamois  skin. 

It  will  take  grease  spots  from  every  fabric.  Put  on  the 
ammonia  nearly  clear.  Lay  blotting  paper  on  the  place,  and 
press  a  hot  flat-iron  on  it  a  few  moments.  A  few  drops  of  it 
will  clean  and  whiten  laces,  also  muslins. 

It  is  highly  useful  and  refreshing  at  the  toilet-table.  A  few 
drops  in  the  bath  will  remove  all  offensive  perspiration  and 
glossiness  (if  the  skin  is  oily).  Nothing  is  better  for  cleansing 
the  hair  from  dust  and  dandruff.  A  teaspoonful  in  a  pint  of 
water  will  cleanse  the  dirtiest  brushes.  Shake  the  brushes 
through  the  water,  and  when  they  look  white,  rinse  them  in 
water  and  put  them  in  the  simshine  or  a  warm  place  to  dry. 

For     medicinal    purposes   ammonia    is    almost    unrivalled 


BOKAX — BLACK  INK.  609 

Inialing  it  will  often  cure  headache  and  catarrhal  cold.  Ten 
drops  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  in  a  wine-glass  of  water  is 
excellent  for  heartburn  or  dyspepsia.  The  ordinary  spirits  of 
ammonia  may  be  used  also  for  the  purpose,  but  it  is  not  so 
palatable. 

Ammonia  is  also  good  for  vegetation;  If  you  desire  roses, 
fuschias,  geraniums,  etc.,  to  become  more  flourishing,  add  five 
or  six  di'ops  ammonia  to  every  pint  of  lukewarm  water  you  give 
them.  Do  not  repeat  this  more  than  once  in  five  or  six  days, 
lest  you  should  stimulate  them  too  highly. 

Be  sure  to  keep  a  large  bottle  of  ammonia  in  the  bouse,  and 
use  a  glass  stopper  for  it,  as  it  is  very  evanescent  and  is  injuri- 
ous to  corks. 

[The  above  remai-ks  on  the  usefulness  of  ammonia  were  fur- 
nished and  endorsed  by  Mrs.  A.  D.,  of  Virginia.] 

BOBAX. 

It  is  very  desirable  to  keep  borax  in  the  house.  Its  efiect  is 
to  soften  the  hardest  water,  and  it  is  excellent  for  cleansing 
the  hair.  Some  washerwomen  use  borax  for  a  washing  powder, 
instead  of  soda,  in  the  proportion  of  a  handful  of  borax  powder 
to  ten  gallons  boiling  water,  and  they  save  in  soap  nearly  half, 
whilst  the  borax,  being  a  neutral  salt,  does  not  injure  the  tex- 
ture of  the  linen. — Mrs.  S.  T. 

Red  Ink. 

Bicarb,  potash,  half  an  ounce ;  cochineal,  half  an  ounce  ;  bi- 
taii^t.  potash,  half  an  ounce ;  powdered  alum,  half  an  ounce ; 
p^^re  rain-water,  four  ounces.  Mix,  and  add  ten  drops  creo- 
Bote.— Z)r.  E.  A.  C. 

Black  Ink. 
Extract  logwood  (pulv.),  two  ounces;    hot  rainwater,  one 
gallon.      Simmer  over  water-bath  one  hour,  till  logwood  is  dis- 
solved.    Put  into  a  bottle  the  foUowing :  bichromate  potass., 


610  COMMON   BOITLE   WAX — BAKING   POWDl^ES. 

one  hundred  grains;  prus.  of  potass.,  forty  grains;  warm  rain- 
water,  four  ounces.  Shake  till  dissolved,  put  into  the  logwood 
solution,  stir  well  together,  strain  through  flannel,  and,  when 
cold,  add  corrosive  sublimate,  ten  grains ;  warm  rain-water, 
one  ounce.  Dissolve  thoroughly,  put  with  the  above,  and  add 
pure  carbolic  acid  crys.,  one  drachm.  This  makes  the  best 
black  ink  in  the  vorld,  at  a  cost  of  about  ten  cents  a  gallon. ^- 

JDt.  e.  a.  g 

Common  Bottle  Wax. 
Rosin,  eighteen  ounces ;  shellac,  one  ounce ;    beeswax,  two 
ounces.     Melt  together  and  color  to  suit  the  fancy. — Dr.  JE. 

A.  C. 

Grafting  Wax. 

Rosin,  two  pounds ;  beeswax,  one  pound ;  tallow,  one 
pound.  Melt  together,  pour  into  a  tub  of  cold  water,  and 
work  with  the  hands  till  pliable. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

Liquid  Glue. 
Acetic  acid,  one  ounce ;    water,  half  an  ounce ;    glue,  two 
ounces;  gum  tragacanth,  one  ounce.     Mix  and  dissolve. — Dr. 

E.  A.  a 

Shoe  Blacking  {equal  to  Masori's). 
Ivory  black,  twelve  ounces ;  molasses,  four  ounces ;  sperm- 
oil,  one  ounce  ;  oil  of  vitriol,  by  weight,  two  drachms  ;  vinegar, 
one  pint.  Mix  the  black,  molasses,  and  oil,  and  add  the  vine- 
gar gradually,  stirring  all  the  time.  Then  add  the  oil  of  vit- 
riol very  carefully,  stirring  constantly,  till  effervescence  ceases. 

—Dr.  E.  A.  a 

Liquid  Blacking. 

Ivory  black,  in  fine  powder,  one  pound ;  molasses,  twelve 
ounces ;  sweet-oil,  two  ounces  ;  b^er  and  vinegar,  two  pints  of 
each.     Mix  thoroughly  together. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

What  Most  of  the  Baking  Powders  are  Composed  of. 
{One  of  the  Best.) 
Cream  tartar,  twelve  and  one-quarter  ounces ;    bicarb,  soda 


10    DKT    HERBS — COLD    CKEAM.  511 

(Eng).,  six  and  one-half  ounces ;  tartaric  acid,  one  and  one- 
third  ounces ;  carbonate  of  ammoriia,  four-fifths  of  an  ounce ; 
good  wheat  flour,  four  ounces.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  pass 
through  a  fine  sieve. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

To  Dry  Herbs. 
Gather  on  a  dry  day,  just  before  they  flower.     Put  them  in 
an  oven,  and  when  dry  take  them  out,  pick  off  the  leaves,  i>at 
in  bottles,  cover  tightly,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. — Mrs.  JR. 

To  Keep  Weevil  out  of  Wheat. 
Put  the  wheat  in  barrels,  smooth  it,  and  sprinkle  a  layer  of 
salt  over  the  top.     Keep  the  barrels  well  covered  by  tying 
cloths  over  them.     A  sure  preventive. — Mrs.  Dr.  P.  C. 

Fertilizer  for  Strawberries. 
Nitrate  of  potash,  one  pound ;  glauber  salts,  one  pound  ; 
sal  soda,  one  pound;  nitrate  of  ammonia,  one-quarter  pound. 
Dissolve  the  above  in  forty  gallons  of  water,  one-third  to  be 
applied  when  the  leaves  begin  to  appear,  one-third  ten  days 
later,  and  the  rest  when  the  vines  begin  to  bloom.  This  quan- 
tity is  for  forty  feet  square. — 3Irs.  R. 

Red  Lip  Salve. 
Oil  of  sweet  almonds,  two  ounces ;  pure  olive-oil,  six  ounces ; 
spermaceti,    one  and  one-half  ounce ;  white  wax,    one  ounce. 
Color  with  carmine,  and  perfume  with  oil  of  roses. — Dr.  E. 
A.  C. 

Lotion  for  Chaps. 

Borax,  two  drachms ;  strong  rose-water,  twelve  ounces ; 
glycerine,  three  ounces  ;  mucilage  of  quince  seed,  ten  drachms. 
Mix.— Z>r.  E.  A.  C. 

Cold  Cream. 

Rose-water,  half  an  ounce;  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  half  an 
ounce;  pure  olive-oil,  two  ounces;  spermaceti,  half  an  ounce; 


512  OAMPHOK  ICE — FOB   THE   TEETH. 

white  wax,  one  drachm.  Melt  sperm  and  wax  with  the  oil  by 
means  of  water-bath.  Then  add  the  rose-water,  and  stir  till 
cool.  When  nearly  cool,  add  oil  of  roses  or  any  other  perfume 
desired.— i>r.  E.  A.  C. 

Camphor  Ice. 
White   wax,   two  ounces;  spermaceti,  two  ounces  and   two 
drachms;    camphor,  six    drachms.       Melt,    and   add   olive-oil, 
five  ounces  and  five  drachms ;  glycerine,  three  drachms.     Make 
into  eighteen  cakes. — Z^r.  E.  A.  C 

Camphor  Salve  for  Chapped  Lips,  Hands,  etc. 

Spermaceti,  two  drachms ;  white  wax,  two  drachms  ;  pul- 
verized camphor,  two  drachms ;  washed  lard,  half  an  ounce ; 
pure  olive-oil,  half  an  ounce.  Melt  in  water-bath,  and  stii 
with  it,  while  cooling,  two  drachms  glycerine. 

Note. — This  is  excellent,  will  relieve  almost  instantly,  and 
will  cure  in  a  few  applications. — Dr.  E.  A.  G. 

Tooth  Powder. 
Prepared  chalk,  two  pounds ;  powdered  orris-root,  two 
pounds ;  powdered  white  castile  soap,  quarter  of  a  pound ; 
powdered  white  sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound ;  powdered  pumice- 
stone,  half  an  ounce  ;  powdered  carmine,  half  an  ounce  ;  oil  of 
lemon,  half  an  ounce  ;  oil  of  lavender,  half  an  ounce.  Powder 
the  carmine  as  fine  as  possible  ;  then  add  to  it  the  pumice-stone, 
then  the  sugar,  then  the  soap,  orris,  and  chalk  in  succession. 
Then  add  the  flavoring  drop  by  drop,  mixing  it  thoroughly  with 
all  the  ingredients.  Sift  through  the  finest  apothecaries'  sieve. 
—Dr.  E.  A.  a 

Ff '  the  Teeth. 
Van  Buskirk's   Sozodont,  manufactured  by  Hall  &  Ruckel, 
^.  Y.,  is  all  that  it  claims  to  be.     I  have  known  it  tried  ter 
years  consecutively  with  the  happiest  results. — Mrs.  S.  T. 


ohaecoal  tooth  powdeb — shampoo  liquob.        513 

Charcoal  Tooth  Powder. 

Powdered  charcoal,  six  ounces  ;  gum  myrrh,  one  ounce  ;  pale 
Peruvian  bark,  one  ounce.     Mix  thoroughly. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

Hair-Oil. 
Pure  olive-oil,  six  ounces ;  perfumed  with  oil  of  jessamine. 

— Z>r.  E.  A.  C. 

Hair-  Oil, 

Castor-oil,  ten  ounces ;  pure  alcohol,  six  ounces.  Perfume 
with  oil  of  bergamot  or  any  other  perfume  preferred. — Dr.  E. 

A.  a 

Hair  Tonic. 

Glycerine,  one  and  a  half  ounces ;  tincture  cantharides  (95 
per  cent.),  half  an  ounce  ;  sulph.  quinine,  twenty  grains  ;  alco- 
hol, four  ounces.      Mix  together ;  perfume  with  oil  of  roses. — 

Dr.  E.  A.  a 

Another  Hair  Tonic, 

Claimed  to  restore  falling  out  hair,  when  baldness  is  not  hered- 
itary. Tincture  of  cantharides  (officinal),  one  ounce;  glycerine, 
one  and  a  half  ounce ;  rose-water,  three  and  a  half  ounces. — 

Dr.  E.  A.  a 

Hair  Dye,  No.   1. 

Pyrogallic  acid,  one  drachm;  distilled  water,  three  .ounces. 
Dissolve.— i)r.  E.  A.  C. 

No.  2. 

Nitrate  of  silver  (crystals),  one  drachm ;  aqua  ammonia, 
strong,  two  drachms  ;  distilled  water,  six  drachms.     Mix. — Dr. 

E.  A.  a 

Hair  Restorative. 
Sugar  of  lead  (chemically  pure),  one  drachm ;  milk  of  sulphur, 
two  drachms ;  rose-water,  four  ounces ;  glycerine,  one  ounce. 
Mix.— -Dr.  E.  A.  a 

Shampoo  Liquor. 

Bay  rum,  three  quarts ;  tincture  cantharides   (officinal),  one 
22* 


514  KOSJ;   BANDOLINE TO   REMOVE   BLOOD   STAINS. 

and  a  half  ounces ;  carb.  ammonia,  half  an  ounce ;  salts  of 
tartar,  one  ounce.  Mix.  Thoroughly  cleanse  the  hair  with 
clean  water  after  using. — Dr.  E.  A.  G. 

Rose  Bandoline. 
Gum  tragacanth,  six  ounces  ;  rose-water,  one  gallon ;  otto  of 
roses,  half  an  ounce.  Steep  the  gum  in  the  water  a  day  or  two. 
Agitate  frequently  while  forming  into  a  gelatinous  mass.  After 
standing  forty-eight  hours,  strain  through  a  clean,  coarse  linen 
cloth.  Again  let  it  stand  a  few  days,  and  then  strain  a  second 
time.  When  the  consistency  is  uniform,  add  the  otto  of  roses, 
and  color  with  carmine. — Dr.  E.  A..  C. 

Almond  Bandoline 
Is  made  as  the  above,  except  that  no  coloring  is  used,  and  it  iss 
scented  with  quarter  of  an    ounce    of  oil    of  bitter   almonds 
instead  of  rose. — Dr.  E.  A.  C. 

To  Clean  the  Hair  and  Hair-Bkushes  and  Combs. 
Dissolve  one  ounce  borax  and  half  an  ounce  camphor  in  a 
quart  boiling  water.  For  cleaning  combs  and  brushes  use  two 
teaspoonfuls  supercarbonate  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  pint  boil- 
ing water,  or  else  use  one  teaspoonful  hartshorn  dissolved  in  a 
little  water. — Mrs.  H. 

To  Remove  Dandruff. 
Wash  the  hair  thoroughly  in  rain-water  with  a  good  deal  of 
borax  dissolved  in  it. — Mrs.  C.  C 

To  Remove   Blood  Stains, 
Make  a  thin  paste  of  starch  and  water.     Spread  over  the 
stain.     When  dry,  brush  the  starch  oif  and  the  stain  is  gone. 
Two   or   three   applications  will  remove   the   worst   stains. — 
Mrs.  D. 


INDEX. 


BREAD. 

PAOB 

Batter  bread 56 

"         "2d  recipe 57 

"         "     3d      "     57 

Brown  bread 40 

Biscuit,  beaten 42 

"            "      2d  recipe 42 

"            "      cream 42 

"            "      French 41 

"            "      excellent  light 43 

"            "      Ught 43 

"            "      soda 42 

"            "      thick 43 

"            "      thin  or  crackers .. .  43 

Box  bread 40 

Bunns 39 

Cakes,  Virginia  ash 61 

"       batter 55 

"            "       2d  recipe 55 

"            "      made  of  stale  bread  55 

"            "       cheap  recipe 56 

"       old  Virginia  batter  cakes . .  55 

"             "                   "          "    2d  56 

Cakes,  Boston  cream 53 

"       breakfast 50 

"       buckwheat 51 

"                "         2d  recipe 52 

"                "         3d      "     52 

"               "         4th     "     52 

"       buttermilk 54 

"       com 58 

"       cream 52 

,"     2d 53 

"           "     3d 53 

"       farina 54 

"       flannel 51 

"            "      2d  method 51 

"      3d        "         51 

Indian  griddle 56 

"       Madison 50 

"        orange 50 

"       rice 54 

"       80ur  milk 54 

"       velvet 50 

Corn-bread,  plain 61 

"        "        light 59 


Crackers,  Hnntsville .'  44 

"         soda 43 

"         water 44 

Cracklin-bread 60 

Egg-bread 60 

"        "    old-fashioned 59 

"    soft 59 

Family  bread 29 

Graham  bread 40 

Grit  or  hominy  bread 58 

"          "           "     2d  recipe...  58 

Henrietta  bread 45 

Indian            "     60 

Lapland        "     45 

"             "    plain  recipe 45 

New  bread 45 

Leaven 27 

Light  bread , 31 

Jenny  Lind  bread 46 

Loaf,  cottage 39 

Loaf  bread 29 

"        "    old   Virginia 29 

"        "    3d  method 30 

Lunch  bread 46 

Lunn,  quick  Sallie 36 

"      Same2d -. 34 

"     3d 35 

"     4th 35 

"     5th 35 

Old  maids 39 

Muffins 36 

2d 37 

3d 38 

bread —  38 

corn 57 

cream 38 

white  egg 38 

Parker  House 37 

salt  sulphur 36 

soda 38 

superior 37 

sweet  spring. 36 

Mush  bread : 59 

Pockets 34 

Pone,  St.  Nicholas 58 

Potato  bread 89 


516 


INDEX. 


PAOR 

Puffs,  breakfast 46 

"      nun's 44 

Rice  bread 60 

Rolls,  hot  or  cold  loaf  bread 31 

"      French 31 

3d 3i 

"           "        or  twist 32 

"      pocket-book 33 

"      velvet 33 

Rusks 40 

"      egg 41 

'       German  41 

Bait  risen  bread 47 

"     2d 47 

Turnovers 33 

Twist 34 

Wafers 44 

Wafiaes 47 

"      2d 48 

"     3d 48 

"      corn  meal 57 

"      mush 49 

' '     rice 49 

"        "2d..... 49 

"      superior  rice 49 

"      soda 48 

"      another  recipe 48 

Yeast 25 

"    alum 27 

"    another  recipe 26 

"    Irish  potato 26 

"    that  never  fails 26 


COFFEE,   TEA  AND 
CHOCOLATE. 

Caf  6  au  lait 63 

Coffee,  to  make 62 

"    3d 63 

boiled 61 

dripped  or  filtered 63 

-    "        2d 63 

to  toast 61 

Broma  65 

Chocolate 65 

Cocoa 65 

Black  tea 64 

2d 64 

63 

3d 64 

a  good  cup  of 64 

64 


Green 


Iced 


MILK  AND  BUTTER. 


Butter,  to  secure  nice  for  the  table 
in  mater 


67 


Butter,  putting  ip 67 

Clabber 67 

Cottage  cheese 68 


SOUP. 


Asparagus  soup . 


Beef 


2d. 


2d. 


Beef's  head,    to   prepare  as  stock 

for  soup 

Calf's  head  soup 

"    2d 

"    3d 

"     4th 

"    5th 

"         "         "     brown 

Clam  soup 

''2d 

Chicken  soup 

"    2d 

Crab  "    


Giblet 
Gumbo 

Okra 

Oxtail 

Oyster 


Pea 


Potato 


2d. 
2d.'. 


"2d 

"  3d......... 

"  economical. 
"  puree  of .  . . . 


green 


2d, 


2d 


Terrapin  soup,  mock 

Turtle         " 

"    2d 

"    3d 

"  "    mock 

Tomato       "     

"    2d 

"  "    clear 

Veal  "    roast,  and   chicken 

bone  soup 

"Vegetable  soup 

"  "        fine , 


S3 

83 
74 

74 

74 
75 
75 
76 
76 
77 
77 
72 
73 
78 
79 
73 
74 
79 
80 
80 
79 
78 
69 
70 
70 
69 
70 
83 
84 
84 
84 
84 
72 
71 
71 


83 
83 
S3 

79 
81 
80 


OYSTERS  AND  OTHER 
SHELL  FISH. 

Clam  or  oyster  fritters 90 


INDBZ. 


617 


FAQS 

Crabs,  to  cook 94 

"    deviUed ^ 

"        2d 94 

"    hard,  to  devil 95 

Crab  stew 94 

"    soft 95 

Lobster  curry 95 

Teirapin 96 

"      or  turtle  in  batter 96 

"  "         steaks 96 

"  "         Btew 96 

Turtles,  to  cook 96 

"        stewed. 96 

Oysters,  broiled 90 

"      to  cook 86 

"  "      89 

"      devilled 88 

»  "         88 

"      fritters 89 

"    89 

"      to  fry 89 

"      fried 89 

"    2d 90 

"      tofry 90 

"      2d 90 

"      to  keep  alive  and  fatten.  94 

»      pat6s 92 

"      pie 92 

"        "  2d 92 

"      pickled 91 

"  "        2d 91 

"  "        3d 92 

"      raw 93 

"      to  roast 91 

"      sausage 93 

"      steamed 90 

"      shortcake 93 

"     scalloped 86 

"  "        2d 87 

3d 87 

"  "        4th. 88 


FISH. 

A  la  crSme 98 

Cat  fish. 99 

"     "    or  hog  fish 99 

Cod  fish  balls 104 

"      "    boiled 104 

"      "    salt,  to  dress 105 

"      "    Nantucket 105 

Chowder 99 

Chowder,  2d 100 

Drum  or  sturgeon 104 

Grerman  fish  stew 107 

Halibut 98 

"      2d ..:....    98 


PAOB 

Mackerel,  boiled 105 

tobroU 105 

"         salt,  to  cook 106 

Perch,  to  fry 104 

Rock  fish,  baked 101 

Rock,  to  boU 101 

"      boiled,  2d 101 

"      pickled 102 

"      to  stew 101 

Shad,  baked 102 

"      to  barbecue 103 

"      "  broil 102 

"       "  fry 102 

"      potted 103 

"      to  roast 102 

Salmon,  to  bake,  to  boil  and  steak  106 

to  pickle 107 

Sheep's  head,  tc  bake 100 

"  or  rock,  to  boU 100 

to  bake,  2d 100 

"     "      3d ■.  101 

"  boUed 100 

Sturgeon,  baked 104 

"       cutlet 103 

"       scolloped 103 

Trout,  tofry 104 


GAME. 

Duck,  wild Ill 

"        "to  cook  for  breakfast .  Ill 

Fowl       "     "  roast  in  a  stove 110 

Goose     "     Ill 

"    2d Ill 

Partridges,  to  broil 112 

"  and  pheasants,  to  cook  112 

' '  to  roast 112 

Pigeon,  to  broil 112 

".    pie 113 

"       to  stew 113 

Rabbit,  barbecue 109 

"       roast 109 

"       stewed 109 

"      2d 109 

Reed  birds,  to  dress 113 

Sora,    ortolans    and    other  small 

birds,  to  cook 113 

Sora,    ortolans    and    other    small 

birds,  to  cook 114 

Sora,  ortolans,  robins  and  other  114 

small  birds,  to  cook 

Squirrel,  to  barbecue 108 

Turkey,  wild 110 

"          "    simple  way  of  pre- 
paring  110 

Venison,  haunch 108 

«  "        of 107 


518 


INDEX. 


Venison,  stewed ....  108 

"  "      2d 108 


MEATS. 

Backbone  or  chine,  to  cook 120 

pie 120 

Bacon,  to  cure 125 

"        curing 125 

"        fried 130 

"        and  greens 129 

"        shoulder  of 129 

Chine,   to  dress 121 

"       roast 121 

Ham,  baked 127 

"      2d 128 

"        or  tongue,  bake 127 

"        broUed 129 

"        of  pork,  to  cook  .    121 

"        for  curing 125 

"        Virginia  mode  of  curing. .  124 

"        to  boil 126 

"        "     "    2d 127 

."        weighing  10  lbs 126 

fried 129 

"        an  improvement  to 126 

"        relish 131 

"        spiced 129 

"        stuffed  and  baked 128 

"        to  stuff,  fresh  cured 128 

"        toast 131 

"    2d 131 

Jowl  and  turnip  salad 130 

Lard,  to  cure 1 24 

Leg  of  pi  irk  stuffed 121 

Pickled  pork,  equal  to  fresh 130 

Pork  roj^al 1 22 

"     steak 119 

Sausage  meat 122 

"          "     excellent  recipe 1^2 

' '        seasoning  for 122 

Salt  pork,  how  to  cook ....  131 

Spate  ribs 1 19 

"  pork 119 

"3d 119 

"  4th 119 

"        "  grisken  and  short  ribs, 

to  cook 120 

Souse  cheese 123 

"     to  make  from  hogs'  feet . . .  123 

Sweetbread  of  hog 123 

Tongue  or  ham,  potted 131 

Barbecue  shoat 132 

Forequarter  of  shoat  to  roast 132 

Head  of  shoat 1 34 

"      "      "      to  stew 135 

"      "pigfcohash 135 


rXQB 

Head  and  jowl  of  pig  to  stew, ....  134 

Jowl  of  shoat 133 

Roast  pig 133 

"      shoat 132 


BEEF  AND  VEAL. 

A-la  mode 140 

"      2d 140 

"     3d 141 

Boiled  beef  and  turnips 141 

Brine  for   beef 154 

Brains,  croquettes 151 

"       to  dress 150 

"  fry 150 

"    " 150 

"        "stew 150 

Collaps,  beef 146 

Collar  142 

Cow  heel 153 

"      "     fried 153 

Corned  beef 154 

"    2d 156 

"    3d 156 

"         "    and  tongues 155 

"         "    or  pork 1.55 

"     round,  to  cook 158 

"     beef,  how  to  cook 159 

"         "    tongue,  to  cook 158 

Cure        ' '    for  drying 1 59 

"     ham 160 

Daube  Froide 163 

Dry  beef  and  tongue 160 

French  dish 153 

Frizzled  beef 144 

Fricasseed  beef 145 

Gravy  brown 152 

"      for  roast  beef 152 

Heel  of  beef  to  fry 153 

Hunter's  beef  or  spiced  round. ...  156 

"     "      "          "       2d.  157 

Heartof     "    147 

Kidneys,  broiled 148 

fried 148 

"      2d 148 

"         grilled... 148 

"         stewed 147 

"       2d 147 

Liver 149 

"      fried 149 

"      to  fry 149 

"     to  fry  with  onions 149 

"      dried  for  relish 149 

Ox-heart,  to  roast 147 

Roast  beef ,  138 

"       "      2d. 139 

Rib  roast  of  beef 189 


INDBX. 


519 


PAOB 

Etound  of  beef,  to  spice 157 

Rump  "       "    to  stew. 145 

Steak,  broiled 142 

2d 143 

"     how  to  cook 143 

"     fried 144 

"     to  fry 144 

"     fried  with  onions 143 

Stew,  Lebanon 14(5 

Sausage,  beef 152 

"         bologna. 152 

Smoked  beef 159 

Spiced    "    157 

Tongue  k  la  terrapin 146 

"        toast 147 

"       to  stew 140 

"       to  pickle 155 

Tripe 151 

"      2d 151 

"      to  fry 152 

"       "  prepare 151 

Calves'  brains 167 

Cake,  of  veaL 164 

Chops,  veal 161 

Cutlets,  veai 162 

"    3d 162 

"•  3d 162 

Cold    veal,    dressed    with    white 

sauce 163 

Daub  veal 167 

Feet,  calf's,  dressed  as  terrapins..  165 

Head,  calf's .167 

to  bake 167 

Liver,  bewitched ■ 166 

"       broiled 165 

"       to  fry 106 

"      2d 166 

"       simple  way  of  cooking ... .  166 

Loaf,  veal 163 

"    2d •....  164 

Lorn  of  veal,  stewed ' 160 

Minced     "    163 

Roast       "    161 

Steak        "    161 

Sweetbreads 165 

2d 165 

»       "        3d. 165 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Broiled 170 

Chops,  mutton  172 

"       2d 172 

"       3d 173 

'•  "       broiled 173 

Corned      "       171 

Leg  Df  mutton,  boiled. 170 


Leg  of  idutton,  boiled,  2d 170 

"  "■         roast 169 

Roast  mutton 169 

Saddle  of  mutton,  to  cook 171 

"     171 

iced 171 

"  "         to  roast 170 

Shoulder        "         corned ,  173 

Slices,  grilled 174 

Stew 173 

"    2d 173 

Tongues,  sheep 174 

Lamb's  head 175 

"  "      to  fricassee 175 

Roast  lamb 174 

Shoulder  of  lamb,  to  grill 174 

Decorations    and    garnishes    for 

cold  meat  and  salads 175 


POULTRY. 

Chickens 183 

"        to  boil 184 

"  broU 187 

"         "  dress  with  tomatoes.  186 

"         "fricassee 187 

".      fried 186 

"  "     2d 186 

"      pie 187 

"    2d 188 

"       pudding 188 

2d 188 

"  "        with  potatoes..  188 

"       to  roast 184 

"       smothered 185 

"       to  steam 184 

"       "  ste-w 185 

"     "   "  ia5 

Ducks,  young,  to  prepare 190 

"       to  stew 190 

Goose,  devilled 189 

' '       to  roast 189 

Turkey,  boiled 180 

2d 180 

"       boned 181 

"       devilled 181 

"       hash 181 

Turkey,  meat  jelly  for 183 

"       roast 178 

"  "     2d .178 

"  "     3d 179 

"  "     with  truffles 179 

"       to  steam ..ISO 


SALADS. 
Celery  salad 186 


Chicken  " 


I9i 


520 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Chicken  salad,  2d 196 

"       3d 195 

"         "       4th 196 

"       for  35  people 195 

Fish  salad 192 

Irish  potato  salad 198 

Lettuce  salad 198 

dressed 200 

"      200 

Lf  bster  salad 192 

Oyster      "     191 

Potato      "    197 

"    2d 198 

Salmon  salad,  and  lobster 191 

Slaw 199 

"    cold 199 

"      "    2d 199 

Terrapin  salad 193 

Tomato     "     197 

Turnip       "     197 

Turkey      "      193 

"     2d 193 

"  "     3d 194 

Veal  and  potato  salad 197 


SAUCES. 

Anchovy  sauce 202 

Apple  "     204 

Cod's  head"    for 201 

Fish  "     200 

"    2d 201 

"    3d 202 

"  "or  sauce  for  salad.  200 

Dutch  "    for  fish 201 

Horseradish  sauce 202 

Maitre  d'Hote  sauce 202 

Mint  sauce 204 

Mushroom  sauce 203 

"     203, 

Nasturtium    "     2' 

Onion  "     204 

Pepper  vinegar 203 

Tomato  sauce 203 


SAUCES    ESPECIALLY    SUITA- 
BLE FOR  FOWLS. 

Asparagus  sauce 205 

Celery  " 205 

Cranberry       "     206 

Drawn  butter 205 

"  "       2d 206 

"  "        3d 206 


PAOB 

Egg  sauce 205 

Mushroom  sauce 206 

Oyster  " 205 

Sauce  for  boiled  poultry 205 

White  sauce 204 


SALAD  DRESSING. 

Cabbage  dressing 208 

Celery  dressing 211 

2d 211 

Chicken  salad  dressing 208 

Cold  slaw  "       210 

Lettuce     "        208 

"      2d 210 

Sana  Mayonnaise. 209 

Salad  dressing 207 

"       2d 207 

"       3d 207 

"       4th 208 

"       5th 210 


BRUNSWICK    STEWS,   GUMBO, 
SIDE  DISHES. 

Apples,  fried , . .  231 

"        spiced 232 

Bacon  fraize 227 

Beef  cakes 226 

Beefsteak  and  potatoes 226 

Breakfast  dish 221 

"  "    2d 222 

Broth,  Scotch 216 

Cassa  roUs , 221 

Calf's  head  pudding 223 

Cold  chicken,  devilled 225 

"  with   vinegar 225 

Croquettes 217 

2d 217 

3d 218 

"  4th 218 

Chicken  croquettes 217 

Croquettes  balls 218 

'!_->,  potato ^ .,  Pia- 

""      "  sausage 219 

2d 219 

meat 217 

Crumb  pie , 224 

Dried  apples,  peaches,  quinces  and 

pears,  to  stew 231 

Fish  and  potatoes 226 

Forcemeat  balls 219 

Fondee 230 

Gibletpie fSK 


INDEX. 


521 


PAOB 

Gximbo 213 

"      2d 213 

"      3d 213 

"      filet  a  la  Creole 214 

Haggis 225 

Hash 220 

"     baked 223 

Hominy,  to  boil 228 

2d 239 

"       croquettes 22S 

"       fried 229 

Hotch  potch 210 

Liver  pudding 223 

Loaf,  meat 216 

Macaroni 227 

2d 227 

3d 227 

"         Italian  method 227 

Mince,  with  bread  crumbs 219 

"        "     potatoes 220 

Mushrooms,  broiled 230 

"  to  stew 230 

"  "  fry  or  broil..  229 

"  and  sweetbread  pates  229 

Mutton,  hashed 215 

"  "        2d 215 

3d..... 215 

Nice  pie 223 

Pig's  head  pudding 223 

Potato  pie 223 

"2d 223 

Pot  pouri 220 

Prunes,  stewed 232 

Ragout  souse 221 

Rice  and  egg  pates 231 

Sandwiches 222 

"  2d 222 

Squab  pie 225 

Side  dish 216 

Stew,  black 216 

Stew,  Brunswick 211 

Stew  "  2d 212 

"  "  3d 212 

"  "  4th 212 

Terrapin,  mock 221 

Tongue  and  prunes 231 

Veal  pates 214 

Welsh  rarebit 231 


EGGS. 

A-la-creme 237 

Boiled  eggs 233 

"  "    soft 333 

Baked  for  dinner 237 

Egg  cups,  breakfast  dish 233 

*'   for  breakfast 233 


PAOB 

Egg  with  toast 236 

H  am  and  eggs 236 

"  6gg  pudding 237 

Omelette 234 

2d 234 

3d 234 

4th 234 

"        cheese 235 

German 235 

ham 235 

"        mock 235 

"        souffle 235 

Pie,  egg 237 

Poached  eggs 236 

Rumble      " 236 

Scrambled  eggs 233 

' '             ' '  233 

Stuffed !'.'.'.*.'..' .' .'  * ".". !!."'.!  237 


VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes,  burr 249 

Asparagus,  to  cook 238 

2d 239 

Beans,  lima,  to  boil 245 

2d 245 

3d 254 

Beets,  to  boil 239 

Cabbage,  with  bacon,  to  boU. 251 

"  boiled  without  bacon. . .  251 

fi-ied 252 

"  pudding 251 

2d 251 

Cauliflower 252 

Celery 240 

Corn  fritters 242 

"  "      2d 243 

"  "      for  breakfast 243 

"     green,  to  boil 241 

"      pudding 242 

"       2d 242 

' '      put  in  brine 254 

Cucumbers,  to  dress  raw 246 

Cucumbers,  to  fry 246 

Cj'mlins,  with  bacon 240 

"        to  fry 241 

fritters 241 

"        pudding 241 

"        or  squash  to  stew 240 

Egg-plant,  to  bake 249 

'^        "       to  fry 249 

"        "       pudding 249 

"        "      to  stew 248 

Okra 246 

Onions,  to  bake , 239 

"cook 239 

"        "  dress  raw 240 


44 


522 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Onions,  to  fry 289 

Parsnips,  to  cook 250 

"  fry 219 

"  stew 249 

Peas,  cornfield  or  black-eye 254 

"      dried,  to  boil 254 

"     green,      "       238 

Pees,  kon-f  eel 253 

Potato  chips,  Irish 247 

"      cakes 247 

Pc  tatoes  creamed 247 

Irish,  to  boil 246 

Potato  hash 247 

"      pudding 247 

"      snow 247 

Potatoes,  sliced,  to  fry 247 

"        sweet,  to  boil 248 

"  "       to  cook  inferior.  248 

"  "       to  fry 248 

Radishes 240 

Ropa  Viga 244 

Salsify,  to  cook 250 

"        "  fry 250 

"        "  stew 250 

"     "    250 

Slaw,  warm 251 

"     2d 252 

"     3d 252 

Snaps,  to  boil 240 

Spinach 252 

Succotash 246 

Tomatoes,  baked 243 

"     2d 243 

fried 244 

"  omelet 244 

' '  raw,  to  dress 245 

"2d 245 

' '  stewed 244 

"      2d 244 

Tomato  toast 245 

Turnips 253 

"        salad 253 

"        to  steVv 253 

Yams,  to  dress 348 


PICKLE  AND    CATSUPS. 

Apple  pickle 294 

Blackberry  pickle 295 

Cabbage  "       for  present  use.  262 

"      cut 262 

"  "      chopped 263 

Cantaloupe  pickle,  3 287,  288 

Composition   "        29L 

Cherry  "         295 

Chow-chow     "        5 282-284 

"        "         "       (Leesbiug) . . . .  285 


PAoa 

Cucumber  pickle  4 266-268 

"     boDed 268 

"  "     ripe 269 

"  "      sweet,  2 269 

Damson  "     2 290,291 

French  "      2 ,293 

Green  "      3 364-266 

German  "       290 

Honolulu  melon  pickle 287 

Hyden  salad,  5 273-275 

Ingredients  for  one  gallon  green 

pickle 2.58 

Kentucky  pickle 293 

Lemon  "       2 294 

Mangoes,  oil,  3 276 

' '        to  green 270 

"        stuffing  for  60 270 

peach,  4, 378,279 

"        pepper 279 

Martinas  pickle 281,  282 

Muskmelon  pickle 3SS 

Onion  "      2 393,  294 

Peach  "      4 286,  287 

"  "       spiced 286 

"  "      sweet 286 

Pear,  peach  or  quince  pickle  ....  387 

Plum   pickle 289 

Preparing  pickles 258 

Ragout  pickle 291 

Spanish      "     293 

Sweet         "     287,290 

Tomato      "     (green)  3 269,  270 

(sweet)  3 272 

(ripe) 272 

"        sauce  (green)  3 270,  271 

"        marmalade   or  sauce  for 

meats 373 

Vinegar  for  pickle,  3 256 

"        "      yellow  pickle 357 

Walnut  pickle,  4 280,  281 

Watermelou  pickle,  4 289 

"  "         sweet 288 

Yellow  "         7 258-361 

Bay  sauce,  3 299 

Caper  sauce 303 

Celery  vinegar 301 

Cucumber  catsup,  4 297 

Horseradish  sauce 301 

Mushroom  catsup,  4 299,  300 

' '  sauce 300 

Mustard,  to  mix 303 

' '         aromatic '. ..  803 

Pepper  catsup , 302 

"■      sauce 301 

"      vinegar 302 

Tomato  catsup,  2 295,  296 

Tartan  sauce 303 

"    (Morcan's) 803 


INDEX. 


Walnut  catsup,  3 298 

"     leaves,  catsup  from 298 


CAKE. 

Almond  cake,  2 328 

Angel's      "       311 

"        bread 323 

Black  cake 314,  315 

Brides'  cake,  4 309,  310 

Capital     "       ■- 342 

Cioron      "       4 327,328 

Cocoanut  cake,  6 322,  324 

Chocolate     "      5 325,326 

"         jelly  cake 327 

Corn-starch  "    313 

Clay  "    323 

Cream  "    2 340,341 

Currant  "    329 

Cup  "    3 342 

Custard  "    344 

Cake 343 

"    with  sauce 344 

''    that  never  fails 344 

Delicate  cake,     2 312 

DeUcious     "        2 343 

Fruit  "         7 316-319 

Fig  "  329 

Gold  "         311 

Mrs.  Gait's  cake 345 

JeUyfor  "    2 334,335 

JeUy  "    2 335 

Jelly  cake  (lemon)  2 335,  336 

"         "    (roUed)  2 336 

"        "filling  for 337 

Kettle  cake 345 

Lady       "    2 311,  312 

Lee        "    (R.  E.)3 321 

Leighton  cake 306 

Lemon        "    2 320,321 

Mountain  cake 307 

"         ash-cake 308 

Merry  Christmas  cake 312 

Marble  cake 337,  339 

"      or  Bismarck  cake 339 

Norfolk  " 345 

Naples  biscuit 347 

Orange  cake,  3 319,  320 

Parson's     "     346 

Pound       "    7 329,331 

Piueapple "     319 

Rifien         "     346 

Rose  or  clouded  cake 339 

Ruggles'  "    .-  346 

Silver  "   310 

Snow  "    308 

"    mountain       "    ...,, 307, 


PAQB 

Spice  mountain  cake. ...  340 

Sponge  "  2 332 

Sponge  cake  (confederate) 333 

"  "      (cream) .333 

"  "     (butter)  2 331,  332 

"  "     (extra) 333 

"  "     that  never  fails 333 

"         "     roU,  2 334 

Tipsy  cakes 347 

Velvet      "     347 

White      "    2 30.5 

"  "    (superior) 305 

"    mouij^ain  cake,  4 306,  307 

"  "         ash-cake 308 

"    fruitcake,  4 313,314 

Whortleberry 347 

Icing  for  cakes 349 

Icing,  5 348,  349 

"    boiled,  2 348,  349 

"    cold 348 

"    hot 348,  349 

Ginger  bread 350,  351 

Ginger  bread,  cup  cake 351 

"  "      lightened 351 

"  "      risen 351 

"      soft 350 

Ginger  loaf 350 

Molasses  cake,  '^ 3.51,  852 

' '      or  black  cake 352 

*       pound  cake 352 

Small  cakes 353 

Albany  cakes 353 

Bonnefeadas 361 

Coffee  cakes 357 

Cookies 358 

Cinnamon  cakes,  3 357 

Coffee  " 3.57 

Cream  "         354 

Crullers 359 

Delicate  tea  cakes,  2 360 

Delicious  small  cakes 361 

Dimples 362 

Drop  cakes 353 

Ginger  cakes,  2 362,  363 

"      (drop) 364 

"  "      (cheap) 363 

"    bunns 863 

"    snaps,  2 363,  364 

Gloucester  cakes 359 

Holmcroft 358 

Jumbles,  3 356 

"        (Jackson) 356 

"        (lemon) 361 

Macaroons 356 

Marguerites,  3 354,  355 

Molasses  cakes ,. 364 

Nothings 358 

Scotch  cakes 353 


524 


INDEX. 


PA  OB 

Strawberry  oakes 357 

Sugar  " 358 

Shrewsbury  "      355 

Sweet  crackers 353 

Spice  nuts. 364 

Tea  cakes,  2 859,  360 

Tartaric  cakes 360 

Wafers,  2 362 


PUDDINGS. 

Apple  pudding,  5 376 

Apple  charlotte 377 

Apple  custard 378 

Apple  custard  pudding. 377 

Apple  meringue,  2 377 

Apple  dumplings 373 

Apple  roll  (baked) 377 

Almond  pudding 381 

Amherst      "        370 

Arrowroot  "        389 

Batter  "        398 

BaUoons 398 

Bread  pudding 390 

Boiled  bread  pudding,  2 372 

Boiled  pudding  of  acid  fruit 371 

"    sweetmeat  pudding 372 

"    molasses  "      373 

"    pudding,  2 370,  372 

"    dumplings,  paste  for 373 

Cake  pudding 387 

Caramel  pudding 383 

Citron  "        2 878 

Cocoanut       "        5 381,  382 

Chocolate      "        2 382,  383 

Cherry     '      "         371 

Cheesecake  pudding 388 

Cracker  "  393 

Cream  "  395 

Currant         "  875 

Custard  "  390 

Cottage  "  396 

Delicious  pudding 398 

"        hasty  pudding 397 

Eve's  pudding 374 

Economical  pudding 400 

Extra  line  "      399 

Fruit  "      374,391 

French  "       891 

Feather  "       897 

Irishpotato      "       394 

Indian  "        399 

JeUyroU 387 

Lemon  pudding,  4 380 

Lemon  meringue,  2 381 

Molasses  pudding,  3 895,  396 


Marrow  pndding 392 

Original       "        2 369,392 

Orange         "        4 378,379 

One  egg        "       398 

Peach  dumplings 375 

Penny  pudding 400 

Plain        "        401 

Plum        "       4 365-368 

Christmas 368 

economical,  2 369 

English 367 

rich. 367 

simpler  kind  of...  369 

Poor  man's  pudding 400 

Puff  "        400 

Preserve  "         387 

Pudding  without  milk  or  eggs 382 

Queen  of  puddings,  5 .383-385 

Raspberry  pudding 375 

Rice  "        3 393,394 

Sago  "        389,390 

Sippet  "        390 

Snow  "        3 386,387 

Snowball        "         396 

Sweet  potato  "        394,  395 

"         "         roU 372 

Suet  pudding,  2 373 

"    dumplings 374 

Steam  pvidding. 370 

Superior     "       399 

Sweetmeat  pudding,  2 388 

Mrs.  Spence's   " 891 

Tapioca  "       385 

"      with  apples 386 

Teacup  pudding 391 

Texas  "      396 

Thickened  milk  pudding 347 

Transparent  "       388,  389 

Troy  "      871 

Tyler  "      895 

Virginia  "      398 

Washington  "     397 


PUDDIN«  SAUCES. 

Brandy  sauce 403 

Cold  "     3 403 

French      "      402 

Lemon      "      403 

Molasses  "      404 

Nice  "      402 

Rich  "      403 

Sauce  for  pudding,  3 402,  403 

"     for  boiled  pastry 404 

Wine  sauoe,  3 400 


DTDBI. 


525 


PASTRY. 

PAOB 

Apple  pie,  1,  2,  3. 409,  410 

Blackberry  pie 410 

Cherry  "  40<) 

Cream  "  1,  3. 413 

Currant         "  409 

Custard  "   413 

Cream  tarts 415 

Cheese  cakes,  almond,  1,  3 415 

"  cornstarch 414 

"  lemon 414 

Damson  pie 408 

( i  ooseberry  pie 410 

l.eraon  "  1,  2,  3,  4 406 

Lemon  cream  pie 406 

Lemon  tarts 415 

Mince  meat,  1,  3,  3,  4 411,413 

Molasses  pie,  1,  8 413,  414 

Orange  pie,  1,  2,  3 407 

Pastry,  1,  3,  3 405 

Puff  paste 405 

Peach  pie 408 

Peach  meringue  pie 407 

Potato  pie  (sliced) 411 

"       "    (sweet) 411 

Prune     "      408 

Prune  tarts 415 

Rhubarb  pie 41 1 

Soda  cracker  pie 413 

Silver  "    413 

Sugar  "    413 

Strawberry  shortcake 408 

Washington  pie 413 

Whortleberry  " 410 

Fritters  (Bell) ; .  416 

(French) 416 

"        (made  with  yeast) 416 

Pancakes  (common) .    417 

"        (quire  of  paper 417 


JELLIES,   BLANC-MANGE, 

CHARLOTTE     RUSSE,     BAKED 

CUSTARDS,  CREAMS,  ETC. 

JeUy  (calves'  feet) 419 

"     cream 421 

"     crystal 420 

"     gelatine,  3. 430 

"  "        without  straining .  420 

'     "  "        without     eggs    or 

boiling 421 

Jelly  without  boiling 421 

"     (stock)   419 

Blanc-mange,  4 431,  423 

"  (arrowroot) 423 

"  (coflFee)    423 


PAOB 

Blanc-mange,  (chocolate) 423 

"  (custard) 423 

Charlotte  russe,  6 423,  434 

"  "     (strawberry) 434 

Baked  custard,  3 485 

Apples  (baked) 489 

Apple  compote 429 

"    float 428 

Apples  (nice  dessert  of) 429 

' '        (nice  plain  dessert  of) 429 

"        (iced) 430 

"        (nice  preparation  of ) 429 

Apple  snow 438 

Bonny  clabber. 428 

Cream  (Bavarian)  3 436 

"        Italian 436 

"        Russian. 426 

"        Spanish,   2 42.5,426 

Tapioca,  3 437 

Float 438 

Lemon  froth 437 

Slip 438 

Syllabub 427 

ICE-CREAM. 

Bisque  ice-cream 437 

Buttermilk  ice-cream 437 

Caramel  ice-cream 435 

"  '•         (Norvell  House)  435 

Coooanut      "  3 ...  436 

Chocolate     "  435,436 

Gelatine        "  436 

Ice-cream,    3 432 

"  (without  cream) 437 

Lemon  ice-cream 433 

Orange       " 433 

Peach         "  433 

Pineapple  "  434 

Strawberry  ice-cream 433 

Vanilla  "  434 

White  "  436 

Frozen  Custards. 

Bisque 438 

Caramel  custard 437 

Frozen  custard,  2 437,438 

"       pudding 438 

Plumbiere 438 

Plum  pudding  glace 438 

Sherbet 

Cream  sherbet 43S 

Lemon        "    4 439 

Orange        "     439 


526 


INDBX. 


Water  Tea. 

PAGB 

Citron  ice 441 

Gklatine  ice 441 

Orange     "2 440 

Pineapple  ice,  3 .440,  441 

Raspberry  "    441 

Watermelon  ice 441 

IVnit  Dessert*. 

Ambrosia,  2 443 

Cantaloupes 443 

Peaches  and  cream 442 

Pineapple 442 

Strawberries 443 

Watermelons 442 

PRESERVES  AND  FRUIT 

JELLIES. 

Apples  (preserved  for  winter  use).  450 

Apple  mange 450 

•    "      preserves  (crab) 450 

Cherry       "  451 

Candied  fruit 454 

Damson  preserves 451 

rig  "  4.52 

Foxgiape    "  *      451 

Fruit  (putting  up) 45o 

Lemon  preserves 448 

"  "        (sliced) 447 

' '     marmalade 448 

"     conserves 4.54 

Muskmelon  preserves  (ripe) 446 

Orange  "         446 

"      marmalade,  2 447 

"       conserves 454 

Peach  preserves,  2. 448,  449 

"     marmalade 449 

"     (brandy)  2 449,450 

"     conserves 4.54 

Pear  preserves. . ; 450 

Pineapple  preserves 446 

Quince  jam 451 

Raspberry  jam t 452 

Sweetmeat  preserves 444 

Strawberry        "       452 

"  jam 452 

Syrup  (golden) 454 

Tomato  preserves 453 

"       sweetmeats 453 

Watermelon  marmalade. 445 

"          or    muskmelon    pre- 
serves   445 

Apple  jelly,  3 4.55,  456 

"        "       (crab) 450 

Blackberry  jelly 4.54 

Currant  "   455 

"  "   (without  cooking).  454 


PAOI 

Cranberry  jelly 455 

Grape  "  457 

Green  grape  jelly 457 

Orange  ''    456 

Jelly  oranges 457 

Quince  jelly 456 

Tomato 458 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Almond  macaroons 460 

Caramels,  2 459 

"  (chocolate) 460 

Cocoanut  balls 460 

"■        caramels,  2 460 

"        drops 460 

Cream  candy 4.59 

Cream  chocolate 460 

Nut  candy 458 

Molasses  candy 459 

Sugar  "      2 458 

"     kisses 458 

WINE. 

Blackberry  wine,  4 462,  463 

Cider  "      467 

Cherry  " 467 

Currant  "      3 466 

Gooseberry    " 466 

Grape  Wine,  3 464 

"      (Catawba) 464,  465 

"  "      (wild  black) 405 

"  ' '      (native) 465 

Fox  grape  wine 405 

Orange  "  .467 

Strawberry    "  467 

Tomato  " 467 

Apple  toddy,  2 468,  469 

Beer  (cream) 474 

"     (gingery 475 

"     (lemon) 475 

"     (small) 475 

"     (summer) 474 

Blackberry  cordial,  2 470 

Cherry  "     471 

Crab  cider 475 

Cider  (mulled) 475 

Dewberry  cordial,  2 470,  471 

Eggnog 468 

Lemon  vinegar 474 

"        or  orange  syrup 474 

Mint  cordial 472 

Orgeat 474 

Raspberry  acid 473 

"         vinegar,  2 473 

Regent  punch 469 

Roman  punch 469,  47C 

Rum         "      46£ 


INDEX. 


527 


PAOB 

Strawberry  acid,  2 473 

"  cordial 471 

"  vinegar 472 

Tea  punch 469 

THE     SICK-ROOM     DIET     AND 
REMEDIES  FOR  THE  SICK. 

Aromatic  vinegar. 483 

Arrowroot,  2 479,  480 

Asthma,    sore-throat  and  cough, 

remedy  for 491 

Beef  essence 481 

"    tea 481 

Boils 493 

"    salve  for 493 

Bone  felon 492 

Blisters,  dressing  for 493 

Breakfast  for  an  invalid 480 

Breast  salve. 487 

Burns  and  scalds 488 

Carolina  small  hominy 483 

Carrot  salve  for  blisters 492 

Cold  in  the  head,  cure  for,  2 490 

CoUc,  cure  for 486 

"      cramp,  cure  for. 486. 

Corns,  remedy  for 492 

Coughs,  remedies  for 490 

Chalk    mixture  for    infants  and 

young  children 489 

Chicken  essence 481 

"       jeUy 482 

"       cholera 488 

ChUblains 486 

ChUl  piUs 489 

Cuts 486 

Cracked  wheat 480 

Croup,  good  treatment  for 492 

Diarrhoea,  remedy  for 489 

Dysentery       "         " 489 

Earache  "         "  487 

Inflamed  eyes,  remedy  for 487 

Epilepsy  "         " 486 

Food  Jor  sick  infants 480 

Flames,  to  extinguish  clothing  in .  493 

Jaundice,  remedj'  for 491 

Jamaica  ginger  ( Brown's) 4S4 

Lime-water 484 

Liniment  fa  good) 492 

"        for  rheumatism 492 

' '        for  recent  burns 489 

Mashed  finger 488 

Milk  punch 481 

Mustard 484 

' '      leaves 485 

Noiuishing  way  to  prepare  chicken, 
squirrel,  or  beef  for  the  sick  .      482 


PAGB 

Ocean  salt 486 

Panada 482 

Prickly  heat,  remedy  for 488 

Poison  oak  "        "2 491 

Poisons,  antidotes  to 494-496 

Acids 494 

Alkalies ; 494 

Arsenic 494 

Carbolic  acid 494 

Chloral 494 

Chloroform 495 

Copper 495 

Corrosive  sublin.ate 495 

Gases 495 

Glass,  in  powder 495 

Iodine 495 

Lead 495 

Nitrate  of  silver. 495 

Opium 495 

Phosphorus 495 

Prussia  acid 495 

Strychnine 496 

Tartar  emetic 496 

Venomous  bites  of  rabid  dogs  and 

serpents 496 

Quinine,  to  take  without  tasting. .  493 

Racahaut 480 

Seamoss  farina 480 

Seltzer  aperient 484 

Soda  mint 484 

Sore  throat,  remedy  for,  3 485,  486 

Sick-room 476,  496 

Scarlet  fever,  preventive  to,  2,  487,  488 

Snake  bites 488 

Toast,  drv 482 

"    milk 483 

"    scalded 483 

Toothache  drops 487 

Thieves'  vinegar 483 

Weak  back,  remedy  for 494 

Wine  whey 480 

Whooping-cough,  remedy  for 490 


HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Ants  and  bugs,  to  destroy 503 

Bedbugs  "      "        503 

"         poison 503 

Brasses,  to  .clean 501 

Carpets,  to  wash 499 

''       to  remove  ink  from 500 

Cement  for  rubber  and  glass 503 

Egg-beater 502 

Egg  stains,  to  remove  from  silver 

spoons 501 

Floors  to  oil 49S 

"    to  dye 499- 


628 


niDBX. 


rA.Qm 

Fumituie  to  clean 500 

"       unvarnished,  to  clean . .  500 

"       polish,  2 500,501 

House-cleaning  (directions  for)  496-498 

Knives  and  tins,  to  clean 502 

' '     to  remove  rust  from 502 

"     to  whiten  handles  of 502 

Mosquitoes 504 

Marble  slabs,  to  clean 500 

Oil-cloth,  to  wash,  2 499 

Paint,  to  clean 499 

Rats 504 

Red  ants,  remedy  for 503 

Sapolio  for  kitchen  use 502 

Silver,  to  clean,  2 501 

Shading  glass,  mixture  for 503 

Soap,  concentrated  lye 504 

Wall    paper,    to    remove    grease 

from 500 

Washing  mixture 504 

Whitewash,  outdoor 498 

"  indoor 498 


RECIPES  FOR  RESTORING  OLD 
CLOTHES,  SETTING  COLORS, 
REMOVING  STAINS,  ETC. 

Black  cashmere,  to  wash 505 

Black  crape  veils,  to  renew. 506 

Black  silk,  to  renew  old 506 

"        "      to  freshen  old 506 

Blue  calicoes,  to  keep  bright  and 

fresh 507 

Colors,  to  set 507 

Colors,  to  restore 507 

Cloth,  to  remove  spots  from 505 

Cloth,  soap  for  removing  grease 

from 505 

Clothes  to  dean 505 


PAQB 

Fruit  stainB,  to  remove 507 

"    or  ink  stains,  to  remove 507 

Iron  rust,  to  remove 508 

Mildew,     "        "      507 

"        Labaraque  solution  for. . , .  507 
Velvet,  to  restore  the  pile  of. 506 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES. 

Almond  bandoline 514 

Ammonia 508 

Borax 509 

Bottle  wax 510 

Blood  stains,  to  remove 514 

Camphor  ice 512 

"        salve 512 

Cold  cream 511 

Chaps,  lotion  for 511 

Dandruff,  to  remove 514 

Fertilizer  for  strawberries 511 

Grafting  wax 510 

Hair-oil,  3 513 

"     dye,  2 513 

' '    tonic 513 

"    restorative 513 

"    to  clean 514 

"    brushes,  to  clean 514 

Herbs,  to  dry 51 1 

Ink  (black) 509 

"     (red) 509 

Liquid  glue 510 

"        blacking. 510 

Lip  salve  (red) 511 

Rose  bandoline 514 

Shoe  blacking 510 

Shampoo  liquor 513 

Sozodont 512 

Tooth  powder 512 

''  "        charcoal 513 


THE   END. 


HOUSEKEEPING  IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From 


45 


'^H^!^" 


'S 


sisLF-HAisiira 


Bread  Preuaratii 


The  Healthful  and  INutrltious, 

BAKING  POWDER. 

INVENTED  BY 

PROF.   E.   N.   HORSFORD,    OF    CAMBRIDGE,  MASS. 


IT  is  better  and   healthier  than   ordinary  Baking  Powder,  Cream 
Tartar,  or  Yeast. 

The  cost  of  raising  Bread,  Biscuit,  etc.,  with  it  is  only  about  half 
as  much  as  by  ordinary  Baking  Powder,  and  the  result  is  much 
better^ 

It  restores  the  nutritious  elements  which  are  taken  from  the  Flour 
in  bolting.  No  ordinary  Baking  Powder,  or  any  thing  else  used  for 
raising  Bread,  does  this. 

Universally  used  and  recommended  by  jirominent  physicians. 

Put  up  in  packages  containing  11  OUllces,  just  enough  for 
25   pounds  of  Flour. 

A  sample  sufficient  for  one  quart  of  Flour  sent  post-paid 
on  receipt  of  a  three-cent  stamp.  For  35  cents  in  stamps 
or  currency,  we  will  send  post-paid  a  regular  package,  suf- 
ficient for  25  pounds  of  Flour. 

RUMFORD  CHEMICAL  WORKS 

apiiovir>E]xcE,  r.  i. 


HOUSEKEEPING   IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From  


AMERICA  STILL  FURTHER  AHEAD! 


Villi  I  111  AiiTir 


Tf  I  LM  mi-iii  I  I  u 


Six  Cord  Soft  Finish  Spool  Cotton 


AWARDED  ALL  THE  HONORS  AT  THE 


.^T  I-.  .^^  2ST  T^f^ 


INTERNATIONAL  COTTON  EXPOSITION  1881 


FOR 


'^The  BEST  THREAD  for 

Machine  and  Hand  Sewing/' 

TWO  GOLD  MEDALS  AND  THE  GRAND  PRIZE. 

Ask  your  dealer  for  "Willimantio  Thread,  and  take  no  other. 


HOUSEKEEPING   IN  OLD  VIKGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From  


NESTLE'S  MILK  FOOD 


Is    the    IMOST    FOFXJL^^R.    FOOD    the    World    Over   for 

INFANTS  AND  INVALIDS. 

IT  contains  only  Milk,  Wheaten  Bread  Crust,  and  Cane  tSugar,  and  requires 
ONLY  WATER  to  prepare  it  for  use,  thus  removing  all  the  danger  of  cow's 
milk,  so  frequently  impure,  diseased,  and  sour. 

FOR    INFANTS 

It  makes  lirm  flesh  and  muscle,  tough  bone,  keeps  the  bowels  well  regulated, 
the  blood  in  a  healthy  condition,  and  agrees  with  a  larger  percentage  than 
any  other  artificial  food. 

FOR    INVALIDS 

It  is  largely  used  in  Nervous  Diseases,  Gastralgia,  Chronic  Catarrh,  and 
Ulcer  of  the  Stomach,  Inflammation  of  the  Bowels,  Indigestion  and  Dyspep- 
sia, Dysentery  and  Diarrhea,  Typhoid  and  other  fevers.  Experience  has 
shown  that  nothing  will  digest  more  easily,  keep  up  the  strength  more 
uniformly,  worry  the  stomach  less,  and  permit  it  to  recover  its  normal  tone 
more  quickly  than  this  Food.  It  is  often  retained  on  the  stomach  when  every 
thing  else  is  rejected.  Ask  yuur  physician  about  it,  or  send  for  a  pamphlet 
giving  full  details. 

NESTLE'S  CONDENSED  SWISS  MILK 

iShould  be  on  every  breakfast-table  in  the  laud.  We  guarantee  it  to  be  free 
from  all  adulteration,  and  the  richest  milk  in  the  market.  It  gives  a  richness 
and  smoothness  to  coflee  almost  equal  to  pure  cream.  Those  who  have  used 
tla-  ^lilk  Food  will  enjoy  the  Condensed  Milk  also,  and  know  it  can  be  relied 
u])un.     For  sale  by  all  first-class  Druggists  and  Grocers. 

THOMAS  LEEMING  &  CO. 

ItsTo.  18    CoiiXiEO-E  lE'XiA.CE!,   ZLsTeaat  IToie/K:  Cit"^, 

SOLE  AGENTS  FOR  HENRI  NESTLE,  VEVEY,  SWITZERLAND. 


HOUSEKEEPING   IN   OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From  


A.  J.  HOLMAN  &  CO. 

Family,  Pulpit,i  Reference  Bibles 

PRINTED  FROM  SEVEN   NEW  SETS  ELECTROTYPE  PLATES. 

CONTAINING  SMITH'S  BIBLE  DICTIONARY.  600  ILLUSTRATIONS: 
HISTORY  OF  THE  BOOKS  OF  THE  BIBLE,  47  ILLUSTRATIONS,  ETC. 

The  only  quarto  Bibles  t'ontainiug  new  and  complete  Bible  Teacbers'  Text- 
book;  Cruden's  Concordance,  Chronological  Tables,  etc.;  Beautiful  Colored 
Lithograph  Maps,  to  which  is  added  THE  REVISED  NEW  TESTA- 
MENT in  addition  to  the  King  James's  or  Old  Version. 


New  Illustrated  German  Quarto  Bible. 

The  only  New  German  liible  in  the  Market  containing 
an  Illustrated  Bible  Dictionary. 

The  tirst  impressions,  printed  from  entirely  new  electrotype  plates,  cast  from 
large  clear  type,  printed  on  tine  })aper,  and  profusely  illustrated,  containing 
Smith's  Bible  Dictionary,  nearly  600  engravings.  Illustrated  History  of  the 
Books  of  the  Bible,  etc.,  etc. 


THE  REVISED  NEW  TESTAMENT,    over  lOO  FIuc  Eng.avms.. 

(ILLUSTKATED.)  The   finest    and    best   8vo    edition 

published.     Also  32mo,  16mo,  Pica  8vo,  and  Demy  8vo.     Equal  to  the  English 
editions,  and  at  much  lower  prices. 


PHflTflPRflPH     AIRIIMQ    *^"*"    cabinet,   and    Cartes    De   Visite   Pictures. 

rnUIUUnMrn  HLDUITIO  Our  Albums  are  made  in  the  strongest  man- 
ner possible  with  Vellum-cloth  Guard-joints,  and  when  open  lie  perfectly  Hat. 
These  Albums  compare  favorably  with  the  best  foreign  manufacture,  both  as  to 
style  and  prices.  Fok  sale  by 

JOHN  P.  MORTON  &  CO. 

LOUISVILLE,  KY. 


HOUSEKEEPING   IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From 


EECKELAERS'  NEW  TOILET  SOAPS 

THE  manufacture  of  Toilet  Soaps  has  now  become  one  of  the  most  important  and  diffi- 
cult branches  of  industry.  It  requires  a  complete  knowledge  of  pertumcrv,  of  indus- 
trial chemistry,  and  of  the  conditions  of  a  healthy  skin,  and  demands  the  use  of  elementary 
substances  selected  with  infinite  care,  and  the  application  of  manufacturing  processes 
which  must  be  both  delicate  and  rational.  ' 

After  long  research  and  persevering  study,  Mr.  L.  Eeckelaers,  Soap  Manufacturer  and 
Perfumer,  of  Brussels,  has  succeeded  in  discovering  a  new  system  of  manufacture  which 
possesses  undeniable  superiority  over  methods  hitherto  adopted. 


By  the  combined  use  of  glycerine,  so  liealth- 
preserving  to  the  skin,  with  a  proper  propor- 
tion of  oil  of  sweet  almonds  and  spermaceti, 
he  has  been  enabled  to  produce  a  soap  of 
unparalleled  quality. 


The  most  delicious  perfumes,  the  plants 
of  richest  aroma,  the  most  exquisite  balms 
have  been  brought  into  use  to  give  to  Mr. 
Eec^kelaers'  products,  unrivaled  as  they  al- 
ready were,  a  superior  value  from  their  soft- 
ening properties.  Distinguished  Chemists 
and  Doctors  in  Medical  Chemistry  of  highest 


renown  havini;  pronounced  these  soaps  — 
some  of  which  are  herewith  illustrated  to 
show  the  artistic  manner  in  which  they  are 
placed  before  the  public  —  unexcelled  for 
purity  and  devoid  of  alkali,  they  are  espe- 


cially recommended  to  ladies  and  to  mothers 
of  families  for  the  toilet  of  children,  and  iire 
conscientiously  oflerrd  to  all  persons  of  taste 
and  intelligence  as  uniting  every  quality  that 
one  can  desire  to  find  in  an  article  fitted  to 
the  most  refined  toilet. 


The  reasonable  price  of  EECKELAEKS'  NE^V  TOILET  SOAPS— they  being  no 
dearer  than  the  American  manufactures — places  thenr  within  the  reach  of  all,  and  guar- 
antees them  an  unprecedented  sale  in  the  United  States,  for  which 

Messrs.  E.  FOUGEKA  &  CO.,  30  N.  William  Street,  N.  York, 

.A.S,E    SOLE    j^G-zEirars. 


HUUSEKEEl'lNG   IN   OLD  VlKGJNlA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From  


JAMKPYLES 


PEARLINE 

MAKES  WASHING  EASY, 

And  enables  delicate  women  to  do 
the  much-dreaded  work  with  ease 
and  KCONOMY,  and  have  their  mus- 
lins and  linens  made  beautifully 
WHITE  and  SWEET  without  rubbing 
them  to  pieces  on  the  wash-board, 
and  ■U'itllOUt  'boilillg",  which  is  a 
great  thing  in  hot  weather.  It  takes 
the  place  of  soap,  and  for 

HOUSE-CLEANING, 

DISH-WASHING,  CLEANING  JEWELRY, 
SILVER,  MARBLE,  MILK-CANS,  re- 
moving BLOOD-STAINS,  GREASE- 
SPOTS,  INK,  ETC.  it  is  magical. 

J8@°' Housekeepers  are  respectfully 
solicited  to  make  a  thorough  trial  of 
its  merits  and  judge  for  themselves. 

B@"  Sold  by  Grocers  every  where ;  but  beware  of  imitations. 

Pearline  is  the   only  safe  labok-saying  compound,  and  always  bears 
the  name  of 


IS  THE    BEST  THING 

EVER   INVENTED    FOR 

WASHING  .^  BLEACHING 

In  Hard  or  Soft,  Hot  or  Cold  Water,  with- 
out harm  to  Fabric  or  Hands. 
Save.s  labor,  time,  and  soap  amazingly, 
and  gives  universal  satisfaction. 


""^0^^^  44  EAST  FOURTEENTH  STREET  (Union  Square),  O, 


IVE^VV^    ^  Ol^Ii. 


MANUFACTURERS  OF 


PENCIL  CASES,  TOOTHPICKS.  Etc. 

liT    C3-OI-I3,   sTi-^7-E:ie,   -ft..<3-.A.TE:,   I=E:-^^^I-,    3=;-tc. 

Novelties  in  all  Desirable  Styles. 

Bf?r  Senti  foi;  ri:i(i;  T.isi. 


HOUSEKEEPING  IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From  


Foiiiicled  ^C^X?V  A  V  X  r\Jv-^^«^;^^        in    I'^S^ 


IT     IS     IVC^^ITIIFEST 

THAT 

FROM  GOOD  SEEDS  ONLY  CAN 

GOOD  VEGETABLES  BE  OBTAINED. 

THE  CHABACTEB  OF 

Landreths'  Seeds 

Has  been  Substantiated  beyond  all  Question; 

THEY  ARE  THE  STAJYDARD  FOR  QUALITY. 


Over  1500  Acres  in  Garden-Seed  Crops 
under  our  own  cultivation. 


Ji^°Ask  your  Storekeeper  for  them  in  original  sealed  pack- 
ages, or  drop  us  a  'postal-card  for  Prices  and  Catalogue.  Wholesale 
Trade  Prices  to  Dealers  on  ajjplication. 


DAVID  LANDRETH  &  SONS, 

IsTos.    21    j^i>riD     23     SOTJTBC    SI^CTiai     STIREET, 

P»HILA.I>ELraiA- 


HOUSEKEEPING  IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 


To   INSURE  best  results  from  the  foregoing  Receipts 
do  your  Cooking  on 

THE  CHAMPION  MONITOR. 

IT  IS  MADE  IN  SIZES  TO  SUIT  ALL; 

WITH  OE  WITHOUT  RESERVOIKS  (HIGH  OE  LOW), 

AND  SIX-HOLE  STOVE. 

P^ricesis    I^ariains*     fi'om     S^ilO     to     #(5^. 


FIEST- CLASS  in  every  respect.     Oven  large  and  well  made,  thor- 
oughly protected   and   furnished  with   every  convenience.      All   parts 
exposedto  the  fire  made  extra  heaVy  and  durable. 

Excellent  Bakers  and  Economical   in   Fuel. 


If  not  obtainable   at  your  dealers,  send   for  full   inf)rmation  to   the 
niaiuifacturers, 

aatim:.  i^esoi?.  &c  go. 

CIP«fCI]VTVA.TI,    O. 


HOUSEKEEPING   IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MxVNUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

Fro7n  


IF-i^IMIOTJS 


STA7"AN  DO'WN 


For  the  COMPLEXION 

A  FACE-POWDER  GUARANTEED  ABSOLUTELY  PURE,  AND  FREE  FROM 
ANY  ARSENICAL  OR  OTHER  DELETERIOUS  SUBSTANCES. 

SWAN  DOWN  is  prepared  expressly  for  the  use  of  Ladies  of 
taste  and  refinement,  and  the  proprietor  gives  his  solemn  word 
of  honor  that  it  does  not  contain  any  ingredient  in  the  slightest 
manner  injurious.  In  fact,  while  it  beautifies  and  heightens  the 
Complexion  it  is  really  soothing  and  healing  to  the  skin. 

The   same   may  be   said   of   GrOSssaiTiei'    and    Blanc 
IlliTsion,    equally  famous  Face-Powders. 

e^yoUK    DKUGGIST   DOUBTLE.SS   HAS   THEM    ON   SALE.°=^g 


HOUSEKEEPING    IN   OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From  


Whether  you  live 

"in  Colorado  or  Pennsylva-"' 

nia,  you  can,  with  the  utmost 

satisfaction,  purchase  the    newest" 

goods  for  the  lowest  city  prices  at  the 

GRAND  DEPOT, 

The  Largest 

DRY  GOODS 

AND 

Outfitting  House  of 


WEST  •  EAST; 


^Only  the  exact  goods 
^even  then,  if  not  as  ex- 
^exchanged,  or  the 
Samples  or  prices, 
^ordering,  mailed 
^ceipt  of  postal  card 
desired,    and    no 


ordered  are  sent,  and] 
pected,  are    willingly/ 
money  refunded, 
with    directions    for^^^ 
postpaid    upon  re-, 
specifying  what  is^ 
obligation  to  pur- 


chase if  prices  are  not    satisfactory. 

Adaress  MAIL  DEPARTMENT 


.    ForSamples  and  Supplies, 


5  ANty 


♦^ 


llUUt^EKEEl'l^'G    IX   OLD  VIKGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From  


Health!  Comfort!  Elegance! 


DR.SCOTrs 


POSITIVELY  secured  with  this  beau- 
tiful invention.  By  a  happy  thought 
Dr.  Scott,  of  London,  the  inventor  of  the 
celebrated  Electric  Brushes,  has  adapted 
Electro-Magnetism  to  Ladies'  Corsets, 
thus  bringing  this  wonderful  curative 
agency  within  the  reach  of  every  lady. 
They  should  be  adopted  at  once  by  those 
suffering  from  any  bodily  ailment;  and 
she  who  wishes  to  ward  oft'  Disease, 
preserve  her  good  health,  and  re- 
tain and  improve  the  elegance  of 
her  figure,  should  give  them  an 
immediate  trial.  It  has  been  found 
that  MAGNETIC  TREATMENT  makes  the 
muscles  and  tissues  more  plastic  and 
yielding,  and  it  is  argued  from  this  that 
Ladies  who  wear  these  Corsets  will  have  no 
difficulty  in  moulding  the  figure  to  any  de- 
sired form  without  tight  lacing.  A  tenden- 
cy to  extreme  fatness  or  leanness  is  a 
disease  which,  in  most  cases,  these  ar- 
ticles will  be  found  to  cure.  In  appear- 
ance they  do  not  differ  from  the  usual 
corsets,  being  made  of  the  same  materials 
and  shape.  See  cut.)  They  are  worn 
the  same,  and  fit  the  same,  but  give  a 
more  graceful  figure. 


The  Secretary  of  the  Pall  Mall  Elec- 
tric Association  of  London  "earnestly" 
"recommends  all  Ladies  suffering" 
"fr.om  any  bodily  ailment  to  adopt" 
"these  Corsets  without  delay.  They" 
"perform  astonishing  cures  and  in-" 
"vigorate  every  part  of  the  system." 


In  place  of  the  ordinary  steel  busks  in 
front,  and  a  rib  or  two  at  the  back.  Dr. 
Scott  inserts  steel  magnetods  which 
are  exactly  the  same  size,  shape,  length, 
breadth,  and  thickness  as  the  usual  steel 
busk  or  rib.  By  this  means  he  is  able  to 
bring  the  magnetic  power  into  constant 
contact  with  all  the  vital  organs,  and  yet 
preserve  that  symmetry  and  lightness  so 
desirable  in  a  good  corset.  It  is  affirmed 
by  professional  men  that  there  is  hardly 
a  disease  which  Electricity  and  Magnet- 
ism will  not  benefit  or  cure. 

L)r.  Wm.  A.  Hammond,  of  New 
York,  late  Surgeon-General  of  the  U.S., 
an  eminent  authority,  publishes  almost 
miraculous  cures  made  by  him,  and  all 
medical  men  daily  practice  the  same. 
Ask  your  own  physician.  The  cut  gives 
a  fair  representation  of  the  corset,  which  should  be  worn  daily  in  place  of  the  ordinary  one, 
and  will  always  do  good,  never  harm.  There  is  no  shock  or  sensation  whatever  felt  in  wear- 
ing them,  while  benefit  quickly  follows.  Being  made  with  better  material  and  workmanship 
than  any  corset  sold,  they  will  outwear  three  of  those  commonly  used.  In  ordering  be  rare- 
ful  to  send  oxact  waist  measure,  and  jiicntion  this  publication.  They  are  all  of  the  same 
quality,  differing  only  in  size.  "The  material  is  white,  fine  in  texture,  beautifully  embroid- 
ered and  trimmed.  'We  will  send  it  on  trial,  postpaid,  on  receipt  of  $3,  which  will  be  returned 
if  not  as  represented.  Inclose  xo  cts.  extra  and  we  guarantee  safe  delivery.  We  will  send  it 
by  express,  C.O.D.  at  your  expense,  with  privilege  of  examination — but  expressage  adds  con- 
siderably to  your  cost.  Or  request  your  nearest  Dry  Goods  or  Fancy  Store  to  obtain  one  for 
you,  and  be  sure  Dr.  Scott's  name  is  on  the  Corset.  Remittances  should  be  made  payable  to 
GEO.  A.  SCOTT,  84a  Broadway,  New  York.  They  can  be  made  in  Checks,  Drafts, 
Post-office  Orders,  Currency,  or  Stamps.  Liberal  Discount  to  the  Trade.  Agents 
wanted  in  every  Town.     «®"  Send  for  circular  of  Dr.  Scott's  Electric  Hair  Brush. 


HOUSEKEEPING   IN  OLD  VIRGINIA. 


MANUSCRIPT  RECEIPTS. 

From 


TO  HOUSEKEEPERS. 


OWING  to  the  increased  and  constantly  increasing  cost  of  vanilla 
beans,  used  in  the  manufacture  of  Extract  Vanilla,  spurious 
compounds  are  being  thrown  upon  the  market  purporting  to  be  pure 
vanilla,  but  prepared  principally  from  Tonqua  beans. 

The  National  D'tqjensatory  says  of  Tonqua  Beans: 

"They  are  usually  covered  with  a  crystalliue  efflorescence  of  couiuarin. 
"Given  to  dogs,  in  the  dose  of  from  seven  to  ten  grains,  this  substance  pro- 
"duced  great  and  even  fatal  depression;  and  in  man,  in  the  dose  of  from 
"thirty  to  sixty  grains,  it  occasioned  nausea,  giddiness,  depression,  vomiting, 
"  and  drowsiness." 

Many  of  the  spurious  compounds  purporting  to  be  pure  Extract 
of  Vanilla  are  prepared  principally  from  Tonqua  Beans. 

Housekeepers  who  study  their  interests  will  demand  of  their  grocer 
strictly  pure  vanilla  only,  and  refuse  to  accept  of  an  adulterated  com- 
pound which  may  render  the  dealer  a  better  profit. 


BURNETT'S 

EXTRACT  of  VANILLA 

Is  prepared  from  selected  vanilla  beans,  and  is  A\arranted  entii'ely  free 
from  Tonqua  or  other  deleterious  substances. 

All  Cooking  Extracts,  such  as  Lemon,  Vanilla,  Eose,  Almond, 
Celery,  etc.  prepared  at  the  laboratory  of  Joseph  Burnett  &  Co., 
Boston,  can  be  relied  upon  for  purity  and  strength.  For  upwards 
of  thirty  years  they  have  been  used  by  the  leading  hotels  and  the 
best  families  throughout  the  United  States,  and  are  sold  l)y  all 
first-class   grocers   and   druggists. 


